^00 



l(D 



=(0 



:C0 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.0rg/details/l 91 6careof bodyOOcavauoft 




THE CARE OF THE BODY 



METHUEN'S HEALTH SERIES 

Edited by N. Bishop Harman, M.B., F.R.C.S. 

Fcap. Bvo, IS. net. 

THROAT AND EAR TROUBLES 
By MACLEOD Yearsley, F.R.C.S. 

HEALTH FOR THE MIDDLE AGED 
By Seymour Taylor, M. D. 

THE CARE OF THE TEETH 

By A. T. Pitts, M.R.C.S., L.D.S. 

THE EYES OF OUR CHILDREN 

By N. Bishop Harman, M.B., F.R.C.S. 

THE CARE OF THE BODY 
By Francis Cavanagh, M.D. 

THE HEALTH OF THE SKIN 
By George Pernet, M. D 

THE PREVENTION OF THE COMMON COLD 
ByO. K. Williamson, M.D. 

HOW TO LIVE LONG 

By J. Walter Carr, M.D. 



THE 
CARE OF THE BODY 

BY 

FRANCIS GAVANAGH, M.D. 




METHUEN & CO. LTD. 

36 ESSEX STREET W.C. 

LONDON 



First Published tn igz6 



p 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER I 

SLEEP 

PAGE 

A time of rebuilding ; the effects of fatigue ; fatigue due 
to nerve exhaustion — Nightmares — Somnambul- 
ism, * bull)Ous-headed ' individuals — Sleeplessness; 
dreams ; stomach and brain irritation — Length of 
sleep — The * beauty-sleep ' — The bedroom; air; 
clothes; light; furniture — Drugs .... 1-19 

CHAPTER II 

BATHS 

Temperature and cleanliness — Warm baths v, cold baths 
— The skin surface ; grease-glands ; microbes ; 
friction — Hot baths — Dirty sponges — Douches, 
showers, and sprays — Turkish and vapour baths — 
Sea bathing ; swimming — Medicated baths ; sand 
baths — The Common Cold : Draughts ; microbes ; 
the nose ; dust ; antiseptics ..... 20-30 

CHAPTER III 

EXERCISE, TRAINING AND ATHLETICS 

Training and athletics — Greek glorification v. Christian 
mortification of the body — Fidgetiness — Liberty of 
movement — Cautions at puberty — The athletic 
female — Walking and running — The 'wind' — 
Exercise and feeding — 'Training' — Olympic games 
— Professional v. amateur — Habit — Staleness — 



vi THE CARE OF THE BODY 

TAQU 

*Form' — Clothing of athletes — Defects of various 
fomis of exercise and games — * Stitch' — Record- 
holding 31-4$ 



CHAPTER IV 

FATIGUE AND MASSAGE 

The exhaustion and dea'h of tissue cells — Antiquity of 
massage — Physiological effects — Types of massage — 
The siimulaiing etilecls of rubbing .... 49*54 

CHAPTER V 

CLOTHING 

Heat regulation — Economy of clothes in saving heat and 
food — Clothing at various ages ; the infant ; the 
child; the man; the woman— Head and feet — 
Evening dress — Workmen's clothes . . . 55-64 

CHAPTER VI 

THE SKIN 

Texture and complexion— Anaemia — Grease — Sweat — 
Clothing — Washing — Soap — Unguents — The face ; 
wrinkles ; cosmetics ; beauty doctoring — Foods and 
dyspepsia — Paints and powders — Sunburn and 
freckles — Biackheads — Warts — Moles— Ugly hairs 
— Double chin — Discolouring of the skin — Cancer . 65-76 

CHAPTER VII 

THE HAIR 

Colour of hair — Hair a vestigial remain ; all getting 
bald ! — Alopecia— Use of hair — Hats — (ireyness — 
Hair dyes, and restorers — Care of hair — Dandruff — 
Women's hair — False hair— Curling and waving — 
The iniquity of the hot iron — Comb and brush — 
Cleansing the hair 77-86 



CONTENTS vii 

CHAPTER VIII 

THE TEETH 

rAGB 

Bad teeth, illness and disease — Bad breath — The growth 
of teeth — The baby's comforter — The effect of suck- 
ing — Teething — Formation of teeth— Cleaning teeth 
— Tooth powders and washes ; soap ; brushes — 
Repairs to teeth — Gumboils, abscesses — Effects of 
food 87-95 



CHAPTER IX 

THE FEET AND HANDS 

Walking and running — Foot gear — Flat foot — Sweaty 
feet — Blisters — Corns — Cold hands — Gloves — 
Clammy hands, harsh hands — Cleanliness — The 
nails 96-103 



CHAPTER X 

LIGHT AND OZONE 

Light and life — Germ-killing light — Plants and light — 
Blue, ultraviolet and X-rays — Houses ; windows and 
blinds — Ozone baths 104-110 



CHAPTER XI 

THE EYES 

Appearance in health ; jaundice ; anaemia ; kidney dis- 
ease — The effects of drugs on the pupils — Defective 
vision ; the commonness of the trouble — The nature 
of the eye — The strain of near vision — The excessive 
work of town and school lite — Tobacco blindness — 
The care of the eyes ; at birth ; at school ; at 
puberty; in the elders — Dirt, dust, and grit in the 
eye — Removing ' fire ' from the eye , . . 111-Z16 



viii THE CARE OF THE BODY 

CHAPTER XII 
THE EARS 

FACE 

The nature of sound — The terrors of the city— Insanity 
and excessive noise — Carlyle's sound-proof chamber 
— The mechanism of hearing — Muting the noise — 
Colds and deafness — Tonsils; adenoids; wax — The 
ears and balancing— Seasickness .... 1 17-123 

CHAPTER XIII 

THE NOSE 

Animals and smell — The nerves and end organs of smell 
— Pleasant and unpleasant smells — The pocket hand- 
kerchief— Hay fever 124-127 

CHAPTER XIV 

POSITION 

Poise in children— School seats — The 'Eton slouch' — 
Slackness — Sedentary occupations — Right handed- 
ness and spinal curvature — Drilling — Writer's cramp 
— Accidents 128-135 

CHAPTER XV 

HABIT 

The beginnings of habit — The 'reflex arc' and brain 
control- The memory of the brain — The memory of 
the body — The saving of effort and of fatigue — 
Dangers of habits — Ousting old habits by new ones 1 36- 143 1 

Index 14-i 



THE CARE OF THE BODY 

CHAPTER I 

SLEEP 

WE spend the greater part of our lives in sleep ; 
it is the great restorer ; it is therefore fitting 
that we should first consider sleep. 

Sleep, to be refreshing, must be dreamless : on 
awaking there should be no memory of the hours of 
sleep, but only the pleasant consciousness of life. 

Man waxes and wanes, his heart beats and rests, 
his brain works and must sleep. The proximate 
cause is fatigue, not day or night, nor the succession 
of the tides, nor the influence of the moon. Simply 
fatigue. It is a resting stage. It may be traced 
through the higher animals and birds, to reptiles, 
insects, the Crustacea, and even the bacilli. 

Sleep is a time for rebuilding those cells which 
have been engaged in the operations of consciousness 
and which have been worn out during the hours of 
activity. 

The order in which the faculties become blunted 
by weariness is the reverse order to that in which 
they have developed. This is the Law of Dissolution, 
and is well evidenced by the effect of alcohol, and 
in fact of most poisons, upon the brain. Attention 
and judgment first disappear, then memory, imagina- 



2 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

tion, and speech ; while the eyelids droop, and the 
head tends to fall forward. It is evident that but 
for the higher faculties the need of sleep would be 
much less, and in fact there are realms of the body 
which one would at first imagine do not sleep. 
The movements of the stomach and bowels, though 
lessened, do not cease in sleep. The heart beats 
faithfully by night as well as day, and we never fail 
to breathe no matter how deep the slumber. 

There is a difference, however. The activity of 
these lower systems, including that of their nerves, 
takes place in waves ; and the intervals are sufficient 
to provide the necessary rest. Between beats the 
heart and its nerves are rebuilt to the extent which 
the beat makes necessary. Otherwise there would 
be heart failure. Even the waking eye has its periods 
of rest — those twentieths of a second when it is 
covered by the winking lid. Attention and judg- 
ment are, however, in the ordinary citizen's waking 
day never asleep save when he himself is. For 
while he is awake he is seeing, hearing, and 
thinking. 

It must be noted that, even in hard bodily labour, 
where the higher nervous centres seem to be com- 
pletely out of action, fatigue is dependent upon the 
brain and not upon the muscles. The proof is simple. 
Place a finger in a loop of string running over a pulley, 
with a small weight attached to its lower end. The 
name of this little apparatus is ' the ergograph.' 
Move the finger (the wrist and arm being held 
steady) so that the weight rises and falls ; and per- 
form this movement till it becomes impossible from 
fatigue ; yet the application of appropriate electrical 



I 



SLEEP 3 

currents to the muscles or the nerves of the finger 
will cause that finger to contract actively. The 
fatigue then is due to neither the muscle itself nor to 
the nerves controUing it. By further elimination it 
is found that the failure takes place in the cells of 
the brain. The brain cells become bathed in the 
waste products of activity: the result is the brain 
cells protest and demand rest. 

A period of reconstruction is essential to brain cells ; 
its duration must be judged by their needs ; and no 
rest is sufficient which does not ensure their complete 
reintegration. 

The material basis of morals, mind, and soul exists 
in the cells of .the brain, which number anything from 
six hundred millions to two thousand millions, or 
approximately the number of the people of the earth. 
They vary in shape and function, but have the same 
physical needs — food and water. In fatigue their 
food stores diminish and they shrink considerably 
in size. The renewal of these stores is the function 
of sleep ; and that such renewal may occur the 
ordinary supply of arterial blood to the brain must 
be varied. The red cells contained in this blood 
throughout the day carry to the cells repeated supplies 
of oxygen wherewith to bum up the food stores of 
the cells and create energy. In sleep there is a 
succeeding state of anaemia or partial bloodlessness 
of the brain wherein the removal of waste and the 
accumulation of stores from the lymph stream. 

How this anaemia of the brain is secured is still in 
dispute, but, in the flushing of the skin which accom- 
panies all healthy repose, one of the mechanical de- 
vices towards this end is visible to every one. The 



4 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

amount of blood in the body being constant, the 
dilatation of the blood-vessels in the skin is bound to 
drain largely all other parts, including the brain. At 
the moment of dropping off to sleep there is an instant 
pallor of the brain surface, while at the moment of 
awaking the reverse occurs. Flushing of any part 
of its surface during sleep indicates a destructive 
activity at that part, and an almost certain amount 
of dreaming, the kind of which will depend upon the 
special area. 

Let any one go to bed with a heavy, undigested 
supper, who has been worrying over business or any 
other futility during the day. Then instead of an 
equable set of automatic stimuli passing to the brain 
and producing a condition of organic well-being, 
there will be an eruption of urgent messages from 
stomach and intestines. The messages sent from 
the disgusted organs are powerful, and may be violent 
enough to wake the sleeper. But if they fail in this 
they wander into the easiest brain channels that are 
open to them ; find that certain cells, those that have 
been worried during the day, are still somewhat on 
the alert : there is a prompt fusion of grievances, and 
the result is a well-deserved nightmare in which the 
cashier has absconded with all one's worldly goods 
— and other equally cheerful happenings. The 
sufferer wakes in a cold sweat and imagines he is 
sleepless on account of his worry. And of such stuff 
are dreams made. They are storms set up by 
irresponsible or disorderly stimuli. 

Whisper in a sleeper's ear and it may be possible 
to dictate his dream. Prick or irritate the skin, 
and again he may dream. So also from any part 



SLEEP 5 

of the body it is possible to communicate with the 
sleeping brain and to ' suggest ' to it. 

The means by which the Pathan hill thief gets the 
coveted rifle without the dangerous necessity of 
cutting a throat depend upon the same conditions. 
The Pathan crouches by the side of the soldier sleep- 
ing upon his rifle : he gently tickles certain areas of 
the soldier's skin till movement of the body shows 
that the message has reached the brain : by graduat- 
ing the tickling or skin stimulation till those move- 
ments have been made which disengage the rifle from 
the pressure of the body, the robber secures his 
booty. 

Similarly we may explain somnambuhsm, in which, 
responding to some outer stimulus, the sleeper may 
walk, talk, even see and hear, as well as act. All 
are due to a hyperaemia of portions of the brain, 
insufficient to awaken full consciousness but sufficient 
to produce a certain amount of activity. 

Anaemia of the brain is needful for brain-rest. 
Hyperaemia of the brain is the condition to which 
an unwise generation endeavours to condemn us. 
Even Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, who might have 
known better, sings the praises of those ' bulbous- 
headed ' individuals, who, while studying, need to 
keep the feet in hot water on account of their hability 
to become cold ! If, by over-exertion, any one per- 
sists in maintaining a state of literal * redheadedness,' 
in which the rest of the body cannot at the required 
moment (bed-time) drain off the superfluous blood, 
then that person must dream or suffer from insomnia, 
or both, and is in a fair way towards a serious break- 
down. 



6 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

Muscular action has limits set to it by the state 
of fatigue caused in brain cells, but the check to brain 
activity itself is by no means so efficacious. There 
is yet another contrivance for safety in voluntary 
muscular action, since, if this is persisted in too long, 
the brain is shut off from actual concern in it, and the 
movements become practically reflex or mechanical. 
Only thus can be explained those extraordinary club- 
swinging feats in which the action has been main- 
tained for twelve hours without cessation. In similar 
fashion battles have been fought by dead-tired 
men who have had little after-recollection of what 
happened. There is, however, no mechanism for 
thinking reflexly to the best advantage : though a 
near approach to it is made in that process which 
is known as ' sleeping over a question.' Sleep is 
therefore the touchstone of good health. If it be 
deep, dreamless, and refreshing there can be little 
amiss with the controlling mechanism of the body. 

Sleeplessness is one of the terrors of modem city Hfe. 
Many conditions may induce it, or its twin sister, the 
dream state. Too great a strain, too little work, 
cold, heat, a draughty room, a stuffy room, a cramped 
position, faults in the bed, the pillow, or the bed- 
clothes, emotion, heart disease, high blood pressure, 
low blood pressure, too much tea or the lack of tea 
— and innumerable other causes. According to 
Broadbent, the commonest cause of all is dyspepsia. 
Late meals may be quite sufficient to account for 
distressing nightmare or actual sleeplessness. But 
that is easily remedied : let the last good meal be 
taken three hours before bed is reached, so that the 
heavy work of digestion may be performed before 



SLEEP 7 

the lessened activities of the organs of digestion can 
materially interfere with it, and there is little Ukeli- 
hood of any gastric catastrophe disturbing rest. 

The predominance of things seen must have been 
noted by every one who has dreamed : an indica- 
tion at once of the area in which hes the chief trouble. 
For if visions are the principal components of any 
dream, it is evident that those cells which have been 
concerned in seeing are still active. It is a condition, 
in fact, of too vigorous a blood supply to these parts, 
indicating that they have been over-used. It by no 
means follows that the initial stimulus which led to 
the dreaming came from the eyes. These are well 
protected in slumber, since the pupil is contracted, 
the eye well turned up under the lid, and the eyeUds 
closed. But it is a fact that if any part of the brain 
has been too greatly exercised the resistance of this 
part to disturbance is lowered, and stimuli which in 
ordinary course would have taken quite a different 
direction are readily diverted to it. A nerve impulse 
coming from the heart, a cold foot, or a cramped 
muscle may arrive in the easily accessible channels 
of overdone visual activity, and result in the calling 
forth of images. This process has almost Umitless 
possibilities through the contents of the visual cells 
of all the images of the past : a twenty-year-old 
visual memory may find itself hnked with the scene 
of yesterday : there is neither time nor space in 
dreamland. The visual cells, then, which most of 
all are worked and which are most in need of rest, 
are the very cells which are least likely to obtain 
this. 

It is, in fact, justifiable to conclude that, where no 



8 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

special form of brain activity has been overtaxed, 
and where the visual areas are as normal as the others, 
no stimuU arriving from the organs of the body are 
likely to cause dreaming. This may explain the 
apparent anomaly of the labourer who can eat a 
huge meal, drink a quart or two of beer, and yet 
sleep immediately thereafter with the sublimest of 
content and satisfaction. 

To go to bed with the brain acutely interested 
is clearly a mistake. Professor Chiene's advice to 
his students was to put in half an hour at least after 
working, over a novel of just sufficient interest to 
keep the attention without engrossing it. 

This matter of dreaming, considered chiefly as a 
phenomenon of visual memories an^ images, bears 
directly upon the question of hallucinations, visions, 
ghosts, and their various allies. 

If the reader has ever suffered from any long illness 
and had the misfortune to be confined in a room the 
walls of which were covered with a patterned wall- 
pap ji - the dancing shapes which its maddening lines 
have assumed in his sick fancies have taught him 
all there is to know about hallucinations. We have 
at our hand conclusive proof of how all such appari- 
tions can occur. We know that a number of brain 
cells are concerned in the operations of vision and 
visual memory : we also know that these cells are the 
most likely to suffer from over-work and from want 
of rest, and that, in this state, they are pecuharly 
liable to attract to themselves nerve impulses arising 
almost anywhere in the body, with the result that 
things are apparently ' seen.' If there is also some 
slight defect of the eye mechanism itself, in fact bad 



SLEEP 9 

eyesight, then there exists in such a combination an 
almost irresistible tendency to see ghosts. 

It may not be irrelevant to point out the kinship 
of the results obtained in dreaming, the visions of 
over-strained eyes and insomnia, the hallucinations 
of emotionalism and the actual hallucinations of the 
insane — in whom also the visual predominates. 

The insomnia of an individual suffering from too 
high a blood pressure, or from the opposite condition 
of the neurasthenic, in whom the pressure is too low, 
is rather a symptom of disease, but the simple de- 
vices of purging in the former and a cup of tea in 
the latter are frequently so effectual that they may 
be mentioned. 



Duration and Time of Sleep 

The healthy new-bom child, which has slept con- 
tinuously, and thrived, for nine months before 
birth, carries on the sleeping habit for several months 
thereafter, and, save when taking its meals, sleeps all 
the time. With increasing age the amount required 
diminishes till, when seven years old, half the day 
suffices for rest, and, at eighteen, nine hours only is 
required. The adult may, if he is a good subject, 
lessen this by an hour, while old people may be 
amply satisfied with seven, six, or even five hours 
at a stretch. Twenty years ago the EncyclopcBdia 
Britannica declared seven or eight to be the allow- 
ance for an adult, but to-day the tendency is all in 
favour of adding another hour. 

There is a consensus of medical opinion that the 
allowance of sleep has recently been too little, 



10 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

particularly in the case of school-boys, and that no 
growing lad should have less than nine hours. Along 
with this has also occurred a denial of the fetish of 
early rising, unless accompanied by early retiring. 
Sir George Darwin advises us to forfeit some hours 
in school rather than some hours of sleep. Acland 
accuses irrational early rising of being the cause of 
nervous breakdown, strain, insomnia, chorea, and 
epilepsy, and emphasizes particularly the truth that 
physical exercise is no compensation for want of 
sleep ; it is, in fact, an admirable illustration of 
lighting the candle at the lower end to make up for 
burning at the upper. Bevan Lewis attacks also the 
dangerous assumption that change of occupation 
means relief to fatigue, since fatigue anywhere floods 
every area of the body, including the brain, while 
sleep means relaxation everywhere. And to connect 
more directly, as has already been suggested, the 
matters of too Httle sleep and insanity, Lewis declares 
that the dangerous variety, adolescent insanity, is 
most likely to occur in neurotic individuals having 
inadequate rest and sleep, and that in such cases 
ten hours' sleep is not too much. The characteristic 
of normal sleep is that it is deepest in the first hour 
and gradually shades off to the time of awaking ; 
while in neurotic sleep the first hour or so is deep, 
then comes a long shallow period, and later, towards 
the hour of rising, again a deep period. The value 
to memory of every additional hour of sleep has been 
thoroughly proved by German investigators. 

The intensity of sleep is measured by the loudness 
of sound needed to awaken the sleeper, but the hght 
sleeper is quite as normal as the deep. We are on 



SLEEP II 

the safe side if we declare that every man, as an 
average, requires at least eight hours, and every 
woman nine. The difference between the two is 
explicable by the difference in sex and the function 
of each, man being catabolic or destructive, while 
to woman is relegated the greater share in construc- 
tion or anabolism. We may remember that there 
are recurrent periods of greater outflow of energy in 
the case of woman when rest requires lengthening, 
and periods of fewer occurrence when, from a double 
work of construction, rest should again be increased. 
And at such times every woman should be debarred 
from the work of a labourer, as Dr. Newman has 
convincingly shown. 

At puberty, adolescence, and all climacterics there 
is especial need of attention to securing a sufficiency 
of sleep. Boys or girls should never be allowed to 
' sit up late,' even — or rather, most especially not — 
for dances. Regularity in time and duration of sleep 
is essential to the growing organism. 

Lord Kitchener, it is said, can sleep at any moment : 
so can most doctors with busy practices, and snatches 
of sleep are always better than none. Napoleon is 
quoted as finding five hours ample : it is significant, 
however, that Napoleon was an epileptic. Certain 
hysterical subjects have slumbered for from four to 
ten days ; and in the other direction there is record 
of a famous bout of card-play which lasted ninety 
hours. Sleep is the period of growth : the baby is 
growing and multiplying everywhere, hence its need, 
and, in a minor degree, that of every child. The 
adult has to replace what he has used in work and 
thought, but the old have estabhshed in their earlier 



12 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

life every cerebral path which is of use to them, and 
their bodily exercise is strictly curtailed : their hfe 
is in using the work of the past, and their thought 
is strictly limited to the paths they have already 
laid. 

The maximum for safety cannot be laid down. 
Terrific and prolonged exertions have resulted in 
healthy sleep persisting for twenty-four or even 
thirty-six hours ; and there are cases of even four 
and as much as ten days' sleep on the part of hysterics. 
There is little risk, however, of the ordinary citizen 
getting too much, though one or two physicians be- 
heve that actual harm may result from excess. 

There is no absolute reason why we should not 
imitate the hfe of the night-watchman and sleep all 
day. The terrestrial revolutions exert no coercive 
influence, though indubitably the darkness and the 
lessened noises of modern life during the night are 
of importance. The ' eight till two ' of the Trappists 
is valuable, if not for its duration, at least in its time 
of commencement, and a suggestion for phthisical 
patients has been based upon this, since in the early 
morning the air is at its purest. The habit of con- 
tinuous sleep is peculiar to modern man, and is pro- 
bably derived from his sense of security. 

There is, however, sound science at the basis of the 
old belief in ' beauty-sleep ' and the value of the hours 
before twelve at night so spent. From one to three 
a.m., according to Professor WyUie, ' the vital tides 
are at their ebb.' It is well to prepare the body for 
these fateful hours, and there can be no better pre- 
paration than the reconstruction obtained by several 
hours of sleep. Hence the reasonable hour of going 



SLEEP 13 

to bed is ten, or at latest eleven. The attractions of 
the * wee short 'oor ayont the twal * are various and 
many ; but Burns died at the age of thirty-seven. 

The best time for the ordinary man or woman to 
sleep is from ten to seven. There are people who 
have worked part of an hour and slept the rest of 
the hour, and kept this up for weeks. That attempt 
by the curiously named Tony Todd, to walk two 
thousand miles or so in one thousand hours, is a 
striking example. There seems no reason, apart from 
habit, why we should not divide our work and rest 
similarly, say by working thirty-five to forty minutes 
and sleeping the remainder of each hour. That this 
is possible has been proved. But since most work 
has to be done * in the lump,' so to speak, rest must 
be arranged similarly. We may notice that the heart 
works on the * Tony Todd ' system of short working 
times with short resting intervals. 

The Bedroom 

Many vigorous men have never slept with their 
bedroom window open. Hundreds of students will 
remember their * bed-closet,' a tiny cubby-hole with- 
out light, and often without ventilation, in Edinburgh 
and Glasgow lodgings. Similarly, one may point to 
the household cat or dog — sanitation not yet having 
expelled these from the home — and observe its nose 
and mouth buried deep in its fur or hair. And many 
a man in his attempts to sleep has finally buried his 
head deeply beneath the bedclothes, and sometimes 
at last attained the required rest by this procedure. 

But neither man nor dog nor cat long preserves 



14 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

this attitude of semi-asphyxiation. Convulsive move- 
ments promoted by too much carbonic acid in the 
blood soon liberate the man's head from the clothes ; 
and in the animal, a movement of only an inch or 
so is sufficient to clear the nostrils. So, while this 
manoeuvre may be regarded as a method of wooing 
sleep, it cannot be held that the whole of sleep should 
be spent in the same fashion. 

Why, then, the open window and the need of 
ventilation, which apparently should retard sleep by 
keeping up too steady a supply of that oxygen which 
it is the chief concern of the body to limit in reaching 
the brain ? It is not the primary object of ventila- 
tion, however, to renew the oxygen of the room. Nor 
is it to clear out immense accumulations of carbonic 
acid, for never does this reach to anywhere near the 
danger-point. The object aimed at in the constant 
change of air is to eliminate certain organic im- 
purities exhaled from the sleeper, which indeed are 
poisons ; and further, to attack various organisms, 
particularly the bacillus of tuberculosis, which are 
unable to flourish in pure air. The carbonic acid of 
an inhabited room serves as an indication of the 
amount of organic impurity that accompanies it, the 
proportion of the one suggesting the proportion of 
the other, which is less easily directly measurable. 

One thousand cubic feet of air is proper for 
any sleeper, and this requires to be changed 
every twenty minutes : more frequent changing can 
do no harm, but would render it difficult to avoid 
draughts, and draughts should be avoided in sleeping- 
rooms lest the warmed surface of the body be chilled 
too rapidly. There must be a window open top and 



SLEEP 15 

bottom, entrance and exit being thus secured even 
in the lack of a fireplace. The device of a lower sash 
which projects higher than the lower edge of the 
upper, or of the sash raised by several inches of 
board so that an interval between lower and upper 
sashes is secured, is valuable. The air of the bedroom 
must approximate as closely as may be to the outer 
air. 

Night air is night air whether in or outside the 
room ; and air at any time in England is harmful 
only by reason of what man has added to it. Chim- 
neys, furnaces, and fires are less 9,ctive during the 
night ; the streets are not so tormented to dust, so 
that the advantage lies on the side of the night. 
Neither are there subtle dangers in the light of the 
moon or stars ! Better the closed window, however, 
than the air of some cities where fatuous corporations 
sweep dry streets with machine brushes and raise 
the din of pandemonium. 

Blinds to exclude the fight must vary with cases, 
since some could not get sufficient sleep, in summer 
at any rate, without them, though the ordinary 
mechanism by which normal waking is ensured is 
the gradual increase of light. There need be no 
hesitation, however, in condemning curtains. The 
rational bedroom will contain neither extra furniture, 
hangings, carpets, rugs, pictures, nor ornaments ; 
especially the space beneath the bed will not be 
utifized as a lumber-cupboard. Valances must go 
with the rubbish. No sink or water-closet should 
be in the room. The walls and ceifing [why should 
a bedroom ceifing be white ?) if papered must be 
washable and frequently washed — a favour usually 



i6 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

accorded for some occult reason to only the floor — 
and of a cool blue or grey colour. Dirt must find 
no favour or gathering-place. A stuffy bedroom is 
simply a dirty bedroom. Curtains round a bed or 
bed-head are anathema ; draughts must be avoided 
otherwise than by these. 

If at all possible the bedroom should be the sunniest 
and best room in the house, i.e. in England. Few 
people sp'^nd as much of their lives in any other 
room, and tubercle bacilli die after a few minutes' 
exposure to sunlight : verb. sap. The ideal bedroom 
would be oval or rounded, with no single angular joint 
anywhere, even where floor and ceiling meet the walls. 
In even the best- ventilated rooms the air in the depths 
of corners is sluggish and changed only by gradual 
diffusion : and in such corners organic matter and 
its faithful attendant baciUi are bound to congregate. 
No gas must be left burning during the night, and 
if warmth alone is required it can be obtained from 
electric radiators, although a good fire in the ordinary 
grate will secure this as well as assist ventilation. 
Gas stoves are not desirable. 

The proper place of the bed is in the middle of the 
room : certainly not against a wall, which by such an 
arrangement receives far more than its fair share of 
contamination. The floor on which it stands is best 
of polished wood. 

Of polished wood or metal, also, will be the bed 
itself, which ought to be single. One thousand clear 
cubic feet of space are required for each sleeper, but 
no advantage is gained by having any ordinary room 
more than twelve feet in height. The ordinary hair 
mattress, based upon the usual spring foundation. 



SLEEP 17 

forms an excellent material for rest, and to correct 
the inequalities of the mattress and to add to the 
comfort a blanket, covered by an absorbent sheet, 
completes the foundation upon which one can best 
repose. Sheets should be absorbent, which the 
ordinary cotton or linen articles are not. The bed- 
clothes must be adjudged by the needs of the sleeper, 
so long as they are the Ughtest possible consistent 
with warmth. All bed materials ought to be framed 
on the same principles as guide us in the choice of 
ordinary clothes, viz. warmth, lightness, and ventila- 
tion. Feather beds, flock or wool, are not desirable. 
They are more difficult to persuade to levelness and 
are usually more or less insanitary — dirty. It was 
estimated only recently that certain flock beddings 
contain more bacilli than are present in sewage ! 

Every tall man knows the acute discomfort of too 
short a bed. As regards width, that is correct which 
will take most of the weight of the bedclothes off the 
sleeper, and yet permit of ventilation by his move- 
ments. Fixing the clothes at the foot of the bed is 
a necessity for comfort, but in England it is seldom 
essential that these should also be tucked in at the 
side to form an absolute sleeping-bag. 

The usual practice is for the bedclothes to be 
thrown back by the sleeper when he rises, and for 
the bed to be made as soon as possible thereafter. 
That is ridiculous. The time to * make ' a bed is 
immediately before it is required, and the time to 
' air ' it is the whole of the rest of the day. 

The methods of wooing slumber are innumerable. 
Some are quaint, as, for instance, that which supposes 
the head to be a storage battery of electricity, from 



i8 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

which the excess, which is maintaining the wakeful- 
ness, may be drained by putting the hand to the head, 
the hand acting thus as a conductor. There is much 
in the value of faith (whose medical name now is 
* suggestion '), and Dr. Schofield tells of people who 
find it sufficient to place sulphonal or some other 
hypnotic by the bedside, its mere presence inducing 
sleep ! There are those who pin their faith to count- 
ing mentally an innumerable succession of sheep 
jumping one after the other over a hedge. What is 
aimed at in all is to produce that state of brain 
anaemia, with slower heart-beat and respirations, 
general muscular relaxation and skin warmth which 
distinguish sleep. Deliberate relaxation of all the 
muscles, noting especially those of the face, with an 
attempt to imitate the rhythm of the breathing of 
sleep, is occasionally of assistance. 

Brain over-work, too strenuous a use of the eyes, 
or too late supper, suggest their own cure. If the 
skin is cold the best remedy is a warm bath, or if 
that is not attainable, warm sponging. 

The warm bath before bed is one of the best modes 
of inducing quiet sleep. It dilates the skin vessels 
which play so important a part in healthy sleep, 
soothes an immense number of cutaneous nerves, and 
helps greatly to produce the sense of organic well- 
being so necessary for healthy sleep. Even emotion, 
that prohfic cause of sleeplessness, is soothed by the 
bath, which forms a fitting close to a last half-hour 
of the day spent in quiet meditation. 

An occasional contributor to disturbed rest is 
faulty position. The head may be too low or too 
high. Sleep on the right side or the left is, or ought 



SLEEP 19 

to be, merely a matter of habit, for sleep should be 
equally easy on either. When it is not so, this may 
be due to sUght errors of digestion, and in such cases 
lying on the right side is most hkely to secure repose. 
Sleeping on the back is not usually successful, as is 
readily understood from the position of the great 
gangha and nerves, which will be most pressed upon 
by the stomach and viscera faUing back upon them. 
But whatever the position, that is best in which sleep 
is best, and that fallacy need not be heeded which 
says that curling up in bed, for instance, will lead 
to deformity. 

Drugs I have no intention of recommending. For 
this purpose they are as truly edged tools. 

It is worth noting in these days when food and diets 
are so greatly discussed that a good sleeper needs less 
food than his restless neighbour. * He eats, who 
sleeps.' 



CHAPTER II 

BATHS 

THE function of the matutinal cold bath is in the 
least degree that of a bath : the feature which 
commends itself to the user, commender, and bigoted 
proselytizer, is its coldness : the water is merely the 
accidentally convenient medium for applying cold. 
This differentiates it from every other, since the main 
purpose of baths depends upon the water and is 
summed up in the word ' cleanliness.' There is 
little fear that any one will argue for cold water as 
a cleanser. 

Let it be granted that it is well to apply water 
to the whole body as soon as possible after rising in 
the morning, and also that the colder the application 
that can be endured with benefit, the more vigorous 
is the health of that fortunate individual likely to 
be. By this test — benefit — must the cold bath be 
judged for each person. There are people in whom 
the desired reaction and delightful afterglow can only 
be obtained by preceding it with a warm bath, and 
there are others in whom the cold produces nothing 
but harm. 

In suitable cases the activity of every organ in the 
body is stimulated, and whereas the initial cold dip 
was only a matter of a minute or so, the reaction may 
persist for several hours. That is what should occur, 

20 



BATHS 21 

but if it does not there is no immediate reason for 
deciding that the treatment is unsuitable. The 
common mistake is in the length of time spent in 
the water. Shorten this and assist the reaction by 
vigorous towelling, before rejecting finally what is in 
reality an extremely valuable stimulant to those for 
whom it can be made suitable. If this fail, it is well 
to consider whether the temperature of the water 
selected is not too low. By beginning with a tem- 
perature only just below that of the body, and lower- 
ing it a degree or so every morning, there are many 
who can arrive at that of cold water with ultimate 
benefit. Or by a preliminary warm bath, and with 
similar care in the graduation of the coldness of the 
after douche or dip, the desired hardening may come. 

The man who in defiance of nature persists in his 
cold bath, though ten minutes after he is still shiver- 
ing with chattering teeth and livid lips, nose, and ears, 
is, in blunt Anglo-Saxon, an ass. In general, the 
value of a cold bath is in inverse proportion to its 
length. 

The bath of cleansing, the warm wash, the brisk 
rub of the rough towel, has other aims. It stimu- 
lates the natural action of the skin. The skin surface 
is covered with minute glands internally connected 
with the nerves and blood-vessels. The output of 
these glands is sweat or perspiration. The water of 
perspiration is valuable on account of the readily 
equable temperature that can be maintained by its 
evaporation. There is also an oily element derived 
from the sweat glands which is considered to have 
the chief lubricating function for the skin ; and in 
such places as the palms, where there are no other 



22 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

oil-secreting glands, there is yet ample lubrication by 
this secretion. 

The amount of perspiration is in no degree measur- 
able by what is actually seen. The evaporation of 
water from the surface of the body is constant and 
takes place chiefly from the mouths of these sweat 
glands. The total amount so changed during the 
twenty-four hours from the skin of a healthy man 
is probably about fifty ounces, and as the specific 
gravity of the liquid is 1004, the total solids can 
evidently be only one-fifth of an ounce, these con- 
taining traces of urea and proteids, sodium chloride 
and other salts, fat and fatty acids. 

The httle channels by which the sweat is carried 
through the skin are corkscrew in shape, which must 
render it more difficult for noxious matters on the 
surface to enter their open mouths — and the constant 
and considerable flow of sweat will act in the same 
way. It is, in fact, not by the sweat glands usually 
that the skin is liable to infection : and the skin 
generally being protected by horny keratin, is equally 
well guarded. The normal skin cannot absorb water 
or anything contained in the water. Though iodine, 
guiacol, turpentine, and other materials can be shown 
to enter the body after mere skin applications, they 
do so by destroying part of the horny layer and so 
breaking down the natural guard. The electric bath 
is, however, efficacious at its positive pole in obtain- 
ing the desired ingress of medicaments. But even 
mercury vapour baths cannot carry the metal through 
the outer layers, and their effect depends upon in- 
halation by the lungs. The assailable spots — as is 
evidenced by every boy who is suffering from acne, or 



BATHS 23 

' pimples ' — are the openings of the Httle glands which 
secrete fat at or beside the point of exit of the 
hairs. 

There is a pathetic story of a little child which, 
to dignify an ancient Papal procession, was gilded 
all over, and otherwise decorated in harmony with 
the taste of that time, to represent a little angel : as 
a result of which gilding it is said that the child died — 
the idea being that by complete suppression of the 
sweat he was poisoned. '' 

The skin must not lose heat too rapidly. . Lieber- 
meister has estimated that the heat loss from the 
body inmiersed in water at 86° Fahrenheit is double 
the normal ; at 77 three times ; and at 68 five 
times : what it will be in ice-water the enthusiast 
interested may estimate for himself. 

In the grease or 'sebaceous' glands of the skin 
associated with the hair there exist an infinite 
number of vulnerable points ; and most of the pro- 
cesses of cleanliness are unconsciously directed to 
their protection. It is well known that the vigorous 
application of ointment to the skin will cause the 
drug in the ointment to be absorbed. Similarly, if 
on any part of the skin there exists a group of bacilli, 
and at this same point there is a collection of unre- 
moved ' sebum,' there is produced a most undesirable 
ointment. Add to this the constant friction of 
clothes and the last essential for skin absorption 
is supplied. It is then undesirable to allow the 
settHng down of organisms, the dirt containing them, 
or the sebum which affords them such an admirable 
nidus. Dust or dirt modem man cannot avoid, nor 
can he prevent the secretion of sebum, but the re- 



24 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

moval of accumulations he can ensure ; which means 
a daily cleansing bath. 

Friction alone will remove, though it may also rub 
in. Cold water, tending as it does to the firmer 
coagulation of these fatty materials, is far from satis- 
factory, so that the value of the warm bath is evident ; 
and if the proper time of the cold dip, as indicated by 
its effects, is the commencement, then as surely the 
best time for cleansing will be at the end of the day. 

Certain foolish people take their bath so hot that 
it actually threatens them with heart failure. The 
hot bath retards all bodily processes, so that it must 
not be taken immediately after a meal. It is, how- 
ever, extraordinarily effectual in relieving spasm of 
muscle or cramp, whether of the limbs, in which the 
muscles are voluntary, or in colics of any kind, where 
the disabiHty is on the part of involuntary muscle, 
as in the bowels, heart, or stomach. From this effect 
of soothing heat are derived the advantages for such 
seizures of hot fomentations and poultices. 

On account of the profuse perspiration that is 
induced by the effect of the heat on the nerves of the 
skin, it will evidently be well to follow up the hot bath 
by an immediate retirement to bed. Such a bath, 
which itself produces anaemia of all the internal 
organs, and especially the brain, must clearly tend 
to the production of sleep. 

Sponges become very soon extremely dirty, a 
large part of the bacterial debris from the skin, as 
well as collections of soap, becoming almost insepar- 
able from the substance. For those, however, who 
would not take kindly to washing without some 
assisting apphance, a better article is a loofah, which 



BATHS 25 

can be thoroughly beaten out afterwards ; but the 
best of all is a piece of rough towel, which can be 
boiled or thrown away after use. Rubbing, in the 
case of the hot bath, is an essential part of the pro- 
cess : here it differs from the cold bath, in which the 
benefit is actually derived from the chill impact, 
though reaction may need to be promoted by friction. 

Under these two main classifications of hot and 
cold may be grouped innumerable variants of baths. 

The cold douche, Hke the hot, is similar in effect 
to the plunge ; the choice is mostly determined by 
convenience. * Indifferent ' baths or douches in 
which heat is neither added to nor taken away from 
the body, are valuable for sensitive subjects, and 
act usefully as sedatives on muscles and skin 
nerves : they are therefore distinctly beneficial. 

The shower, the needle, the Scotch, and other 
douches depend upon the distinctions that have 
already been made clear regarding the effects of cold 
and heat, and in the best results are tonic and in- 
vigorating. What has been said regarding the cold 
bath will a fortiori apply to the cold shower, or to 
the needle douche, or to the so-called Scotch method, 
in which alternating hot and cold sprays are directly 
and vigorously darted at the body. These are re- 
finements for those who care to amuse themselves, 
and are not necessary in the preservation of ordinary 
health. But this much may be said in favour of the 
shower ; its effects are shorter and crisper than any 
other form of cold bath, and experience shows that 
the loss of heat is less and the reaction more speedy. 
The shower may be happily enjoyed when the cold 
plunge cannot be endured. 



26 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

Turkish and vapour baths, however, are regarded 
by some as almost essentials. The fact of interest 
in the Turkish bath is that by means of it a tempera- 
ture immensely higher than that which could be borne 
in hot water can be sustained by the body in the hot 
air without disaster, and indeed with benefit if ordi- 
nary care is taken. The beginner will find 130-140° F. 
quite high enough to make a start on, and will not 
Unger unduly in even this. The effects are those of 
heat simply : the internal anaemia and the skin 
flushing, profuse perspiration and general lethargic 
sense of well-being. This must be followed by the 
properly graduated cooling douche and a lengthy 
process of cooUng off, from neglect of which arises 
the catching of chills for which the bath is sometimes 
blamed. The effect in suitable subjects is in the 
highest degree beneficial. The procedure of the 
Turkish bath, as it is carried out at Harrogate and 
other towns which Hve by their baths, may be of 
interest : preliminary warm shower or needle spray, 
followed by the hot air exposure in three different 
chambers ; then a vigorous shampooing, soap and 
water lather, a tonic needle douche, and lastly the 
final plunge before the coohng off : a luxurious 
process evidently. 

Vapour baths are the less commendable and the 
less necessary, since by their approximation to the 
effects of water, they do not so freely permit of such 
evaporation and consequent hberation of sweat as 
obtains in hot air. The * Russian ' is the type of this 
variety ; in it a temperature of 145° may be attained, 
and in its home it is followed by flagellation with 
twigs and an ice-water douche or a roll in the snow. 



BATHS 27 

To turn for a moment from the consideration of 
these various luxuries to a very practical point : 
thousands of children in every town go without even 
one complete bath from one year's end to another, 
and it is worth considering whether — as suggested 
by Mr. Rose in a paper read before the Medical 
Officers of Schools Association — along with every 
swimming-bath made available to such children, 
there might not also be a complete equipment for 
warm douching. Shower baths are recommended as 
being the quickest, cheapest, and most cleanly where 
large numbers have to be catered for. There is 
little doubt that if the advantages of the warm shower 
have to be balanced against those of swimming-baths 
on account of considerations of space or expense, the 
decision should be made in favour of the shower, for 
reasons not only of cleanliness but health. 

Bathing has points of interest of its own. Its 
ideal form has come to be considered that which can 
be had in the sea. Neither the ozone nor anything 
else equally subtle is responsible for the value of this 
pleasant and health-giving diversion. The effects 
produced are due simply to immersion in water in 
motion, and perhaps also in water of high specific 
gravity owing to its containing a certain quantity 
of sohd material, either suspended or in solution. 
The stimulating effect of the impact of innumerable 
infinitesimal material points is precisely that obtained 
by the whip of the wind when one is driving a speedy 
horse or motor-car. Three hours after breakfast is 
the ideal time for a dip ; certainly not immediately 
after a meal, and equally certainly not before break- 
fast. In both cases the need of the digestive organs 



28 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

for the first call upon any available vigour must be 
remembered. Nor is it well for any one to bathe 
in a state of too great heat or excitement. 

The point of importance in sea-bathing is not to 
stay in too long, even if swimming be maintained the 
whole time. It has to be remembered that though 
swimming will manufacture heat, it does so by drain- 
ing muscular and bodily energy. Sometimes occult 
and mysterious powers are attributed to sea-water 
in the way of the prevention of colds. It is cold that 
gives colds — not water, whether salt or fresh. If this 
be doubted, the experiment of trying it in your bath 
with equal carelessness is worth performing. You 
wiU settle the question, for you will catch the cold. 
Without doubt microbes are fewer and less virulent 
at the sea-side, and the life is more health-giving at 
such places than that led by the same people or 
children in town, but there is nothing miraculous in 
salt. 

Medicated baths are inactive so far as helping their 
constituents through the skin is concerned, whether 
these be of soda, salt, pine, or other elixir : our opinion 
of them, indeed, is practically that which was ex- 
pressed by Dr. Samuel Johnson with his wonted 
vigour : ' No, sir : medicated baths can be no better 
than warm water : their only effect can be that of 
tepid moisture.' 

The virtues of radium and electricity have been 
used to advertise various enterprising spas, but of 
their action on the healthy skin in minute quantities 
that can be found in water, wherever obtained, there 
is little evidence of value. There remains, however, 
the group of * sohd ' baths, the most famihar of 



BATHS 29 

which are peat, mud, and sand baths. But none of 
these need trouble the healthy in body. 

Mud or peat bathing stimulates the skin by the 
friction of innumerable minute fragments of plants 
and other organic as well as inorganic material, such 
as sand and shells. The mud or peat is plastered 
on or applied in various ways, frequently hot, or as 
in taking an ordinary bath : being bad conductors 
of heat, baths composed of either of these substances 
may be made either hotter or colder than is possible 
in water, without discomfort. The action is that 
of cold or heat with the increased stimulation of the 
skin by the particles contained. 

The sand bath is particularly stimulating or irritat- 
ing to the skin on account of its composition : its 
characteristic is the dryness of the heat and the 
facility with which it permits evaporation. But to 
any of these must naturally be added the use of water 
afterwards, if cleanhness is desired. 

As a final word regarding the fallacy that the cold 
bath is the only bath worthy of the name, it may be 
recalled that the Japanese, who use water hot enough 
to parboil an Englishman, have proved themselves 
to be the reverse of effeminate. 

The Common Cold 

The warding off of the common simple cold is a 
matter of such universal interest that a word con- 
cerning it is not amiss. It is a powerful illustration 
of the truth that bacilli, or the organisms of disease, 
are always with us, and is ample warning of the 
necessity for keeping the body continually fit. There 
is no need to remind ourselves of what a simple cold 



30 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

may lead to. But in the understanding of what- 
happens in this commonest of all affections lies the 
comprehension of many of the most serious risks 
which daily menace health. 

In the event of exposure to draughts the exposed 
surface at once responds by a vascular contraction 
and a checking of perspiration — a mechanism which 
ensures that heat will not be too rapidly lost at that 
spot, nor the general bodily temperature allowed to 
drop. The actual cold spot, too, is a place where 
vital energies are lowered, and an attack of bacilli 
is more Hkely to be successful. 

In these different factors — the omnipresence of 
hurtful organisms, the general chill of the blood from 
a defective vaso-motor response, the diffusion of the 
strength of the phagocytes, and the actual lowering 
of the resisting power of any one spot or area of the 
body — lie ample explanation of the attack that is 
promptly and often successfully made by those 
organisms that happen to be favourably placed. 

The reason why draughts and chills cause * colds * 
is now clear. For if there is one place in the human 
body where organisms are most likely to be present 
in greatest number, it is the mucous membrane lining 
the nose, nasal passages, and back of the pharynx, 
since into these passages are continually inhaled 
fresh accessions in the dusty air which it is the lot 
of modern man to breathe from morning till night. 
The natural sequence need not be further detailed. 
The best preventive when there is special liability 
to infection is to be found in that extremely valuable 
antiseptic quinine, taken in moderate doses, according 
to the direction of one's doctor. 



CHAPTER III 

EXERCISE, TRAINING, AND ATHLETICS 

THE old Norse and Greek glorification of muscle 
and the physical body, and the degradations 
and self-mortifications imposed by Christian hermits, 
are natural oscillations in this world of rhythm. 
Apotheosis ended in hatred ; and we are still perhaps 
not altogether free from the belief that the body is 
something ' low.' We have a flickering superstition 
that it must be kept under : that ' life is for work,' 
as it is phrased. 

In this generation, with its advantage of a clearer 
and more precise physiology, there is less antagonism 
between the body and the mind, and it is possible to 
fuse into one harmony the truths derived from both. 
Exercise, indeed, is chiefly valuable since it helps to 
develop the psyche, or mind. 

Exercise, let us say, affects primarily the muscles, 
but not a muscle of the body can contract without 
affecting scores of nerves. There is not one nerve 
in the body which does not have means of communica- 
tion with the brain, as well as through these with the 
rest of the body. All mental processes are based upon 
a simple unit of action or process called a ' reflex arc,' 
in which some one muscle fibre is a chief factor. The 
necessity to consider nerve and finally mind in any 
discussion of muscle is therefore clear. There is no 

31 



32 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

muscular hegemony among the principalities of the 
body, though various ardent physical culturists 
are endeavouring to inculcate it. Sophocles is still 
apt : — 

'Not always the huge size of weighty limbs ensure the 
victory. 
They who excel in wisdom are alone invincible.' 

The question of exercise in the case of babies and 
young children is extremely simple. The matter is 
out of our hands if they are left alone. The amoeba, 
the simplest form of animal organism, grasps at 
whatever comes near to it : its means are somewhat 
ineffectual, blind, and groping, but by sluggish pro- 
trusions of its substance it makes distinct attempts 
to reach the object. There is no essential difference 
between the mechanism of the amoeba and that which 
prompts the infant to clutch wildly at its father's 
beaming eye. Salts in solution in the amoebic jeUy 
are squeezed out, various tensions are altered, and 
the jelly projects into arms called pseudopodia. The 
rays which enter the eye of the infant reach its optic 
nerve, salts in the jelly of the nerve are squeezed 
out, and as a result of the alterations of tension a 
message passes to the nerve cell. This is continued 
and repeated along the nerves running to the child's 
arm. The change is seen to take effect in the muscle 
substance, the muscle material flows in one or more 
definite directions, and the baby's finger approxi- 
mates more or less to the paternal eye. 

The life of a child is the primitive life, where 
thought is promptly translated into action, and a 
child's hberty of action should be absolute except in 



EXERCISE, TRAINING, AND ATHLETICS 33 

so fax as regards its own safety and that of others. 
Movement is the natural reaction to all stimuli in 
the very young : it is essential to their health, to 
their growth, and to their development, and after 
these, it is needless to add, to their happiness. The 
movement of every part of the body from head to 
foot should be wholly unrestrained. Not a move- 
ment, not a single wriggle of body, head, or limbs 
but has its definite purpose, and here is the explana- 
tion of that ' fidgetiness ' or restlessness which the 
thoughtless elders sometimes put down to a deUberate 
manifestation of iniquity. The nerve currents in 
children are translated into muscle action : it is only 
in the more mature that they can diffuse themselves 
in the higher association areas, in a certain amount 
of heat and some little thought or imagination, with- 
out impulsive movements. 

When a Balfour finds it necessary to relieve some 
of the superfluous brain energy by gripping the lapels 
of his frockcoat, or a M'Bride finds that speech re- 
quires the assistance of table-thumping for all his 
nerve-currents to be satisfactorily drained, there is 
little justice in chiding a child who spontaneously 
seeks an outlet for his emotions by kicking one's 
shins. 

Let the children play, but do not put them in 
positions where the ' muscular outlet for their cortical 
storms ' shall be an inconvenience to others. Especi- 
ally is the word ' play ' to be noted. A very young 
child should most decidedly not be ' taught ' games. 
It is to sit or stand or run or roll as seems to it best 
at the moment ; and no considerations of clothes or 
dirt are to interfere with these primal necessities. 



34 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

The sensations are to be trusted, in this matter at 
least. 

A child is governed by instincts or by instinctive 
responses, and its needs are for the first few years 
chiefly those of the animals. As we are not here 
deaUng with more of education than is comprised in 
' exercise,' this question need not be further enlarged 
upon. Liberty of physical movement must rank with 
food, air, and light. 

The case of the child from the time it enters school- 
life till it attains the age of puberty is more difficult, 
for into this stage must enter largely the conscious 
disciphne of mind and morals. It may be stated 
with certainty that the differential treatment of the 
sexes is not demanded at this stage. If there is any 
difference between the physical vigour of boy and 
girl under the same treatment it is rather in favour 
of the girl, who attains her maximum more rapidly. 

The age of puberty needs most careful watching. 
It is a time of most rapid development, being, in 
fact, second only to early childhood in the amount 
and rate of change that occurs, and it does not at 
all follow that a mode of life which has been perfectly 
suitable before this may be satisfactory now. Sleep, 
it has already been said, must be amply provided for. 
The ideal course would be that there should be neither 
school-work nor any other employment demanding 
mental wear and tear for a year around this period, 
and that hfe should consist of open-air occupation 
with that form of exercise which is most valuable 
in each case. 

From puberty onwards comes a time when the 
sexes require a scientific differentiation of their 



EXERCISE, TRAINING, AND ATHLETICS 35 

treatment, based upon a recognition of the differ- 
ences in their function and life-work. That there is 
a difference in even their reaction to the same course 
of physical training is perceived by the teacher of 
g5minastics, for no physical training will induce the 
rounded muscles of women to take on the knobby 
character which is so great a glory to men. Women 
are conservators of that energy which it is the function 
of man to disperse. 

The expert athletic as well as the phenomenally 
intellectual woman is a lusus naiurcB. It is to the 
credit of the sex that woman has not been specially 
renowned as painter, composer, dramatist, or writer. 
Yet by a perversion of all complete understanding 
this has been held her reproach, even though it has 
at the same time been noted that those women who 
have excelled in the forbidden paths of either mental 
or muscular robustness have tended to sterility of 
actual Hfe. It has not been granted to be fertile in 
more than one world. 

But whilst no man wishes to see an athlete among 
his women-folk, it does not follow that they should 
be debarred from participation in the exercises which 
make for health : and these may well be the same 
for both sexes. 

The solution of the question as to which particular 
muscular exercise, deliberately taken, is most likely 
to be conducive to health, may be decidea in a variety 
of ways, and the answers are only likely to coincide 
if care be first taken to ensure that there is in each 
case the same understanding of what is meant by 
health. That matter has been settled, so far as this 
work is concerned, by our agreeing that it is the power 



36 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

to live completely — which means that all the desirable 
faculties shall be capable of their proper employment. 

The rational method would appear to be the going 
back on the history of man himself, discovering what 
parts of his muscular economy were first principally 
used, and inferring that these, if they still exist, 
should form a natural basis on which exercise should 
begin. It soon becomes clear that the mechanism 
concerned in locomotion has always been and still 
is of first importance : and upon his capability of 
changing his position has been founded all human 
activity, while by its necessities have been modified 
vital processes, such as respiration and circulation, 
together with all other development. 

Of all the muscles under the control of the will 
those concerned with massive bodily movement have 
been most active for millions of years : they have 
maintained their value to well within our own times, 
and it is only now, when man is able to travel faster 
on machines, that there has arisen any doubt as to 
the parts of his body which first deserve attention ; 
though it is still reahzed that the back, loins, and 
thighs are the regions in which resides ' strength.' 

Any system of exercise, then, which does not 
recognize walking and running as fundamental is 
bound to be unsatisfactory for muscles and brain : 
for in the brain are laid down millions of cells, the 
interests and welfare of which are intimately con- 
cerned with the muscles of progression. There is 
infinitely more in walking than the mere contracting 
and relaxing of a group of muscles, a fact ignored by 
systems which tie the athlete to a series of rubber 
tubes attached to a bedroom door. There is a 



EXERCISE, TRAINING, AND ATHLETICS 37 

variation in the stimuli which meet the eye, ear, and 
skin in every step of a walk : there is a difference in 
the work done and the kind and worth of it. 

While the child is young it first wriggles along the 
floor ; later it manages to progress by bringing into 
play legs, arms, and body ; and, as growth proceeds, 
arms and legs, and finally legs alone, become the 
preferred means of movement. The progress from 
the serpentine to the quadripedal and at last the 
bipedal form of locomotion is significant. When the 
erect position is attained the muscles which actuate 
the lower limbs are not isolated : there is a deep- 
seated understanding which, at every fresh posture 
of the body induced by the muscles of walking, pro- 
vokes actions and reactions through the whole 
economy. It is hardly too much to say that in 
walking nearly every muscle of the body is actively 
promoting the motions aimed at, either by actual 
contraction or by passive resistance. 

The more self-evident of the muscular actions that 
accompany the movements of the lower limbs are 
universally recognized, such as the opposite-sided 
swing of the arms, the movements of abdominal 
muscles, the contractions of those of loins and back, 
and the stiffening necessary to hold the head erect. 
It must be noted, however, that if the arms swing the 
shoulders also are concerned, that hence the chest 
muscles become involved, and that these play on the 
ribs. Also the whole skin is affected by the altera- 
tions of tension induced in it by so large a system as 
that of the limbs. 

The vigour acquired by such a method of exercise 
is of undoubted value to the backgrounds of con- 



38 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

sciousness, and gives the proper warmth of feeling- 
tone to sensations, emotions, and ideas. 

It is the best method of producing ' wind ' and 
stamina. This is recognized in every curriculum of 
training. There is in walking no interference with 
the easiest and fullest breathing, since no forcibly 
contracting muscles are holding the shoulder girdle 
or the ribs or the diaphragm in any one fixed position. 
If you are an indifferent cyclist and endeavour to 
aid your difficult progress by pulling on the handle- 
bar, thus fixing the upper part of your chest, the 
impediment to easy breathing will be at once apparent. 
For the same reason it is not right when doing dumb- 
bell or similar forms of exercise to stand with the 
shoulders well back, as is so curiously and universally 
prescribed. Stand up well by all means, but the 
muscles must be ' limber,' not set hard. 

The truth that no persistent violent exertion during 
which shoulder, back, or chest muscles are strongly 
contracted for more than one or two complete in- 
spirations, is good for the organism, should be the 
test of value. By this test weight-Hf ting, for example, 
is absolutely condemned. 

Exercise and feeding are closely related matters. 
We have in England attained to a vicious method 
of life whereby the actual amount eaten varies very 
little even in summer and winter — so that a man 
thinks if he is eating less or has less appetite even in 
hot weather he must necessarily be ill. That is, of 
course, very ridiculous, and due to the three-meals- 
a-day cult, whereby the healthy hunger instinct has 
departed from us, and a factitious and deceptive 
habit has taken its place. There is, indeed, no doubt 



EXERCISE, TRAINING, AND ATHLETICS 39 

at all that most of us eat too much, and that the 
feeling we proudly aver to be * hunger ' is nothing 
of the kind, but is due to a vitiation of natural 
processes by the ' spoiling ' of the stomach — the 
sensations of which are, in civilization at least, 
most untrustworthy guides to diet. 

Our concern is with the organism that is not 
gluttonous or lazy, but whose desire it is to utilize 
its sources of energy to the best advantage of body 
and mind. Four-fifths of the energy available is re- 
quired to maintain the body temperature, and the 
remaining fifth is almost equally divided among the 
processes of bodily metabolism and the actual move- 
ments that may be measured in terms of units of 
work. Dr. Cantlie suggests that 300 foot-tons of 
work must be performed for health maintenance in 
external movements of all kinds during the day by 
a man weighing eleven stone. Such an amount can 
be realized by walking eighteen miles. 

Some stipulation must be made as to the time over 
which 'this work is spread, and also as to the speed 
at which it is taken. The sprinter in his 100 yards 
exhausts energy that would carry him miles at a 
walking pace ; whereas the housewife, who during 
the day is up and down stairs an innumerable number 
of times and who is otherwise ahnost continually 
engaged in a number of small progressions, is often 
quite unable to walk five miles without inconvenient 
fatigue. The time factor is of the greatest importance 
in creating a reserve of force, for those people who 
have accustomed their cells, muscular and nervous, 
to short outputs of energy are doing little to build up 
real stamina. A short demand upon the energy of 



40 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

any system does not mean that there is a correspond- 
ingly large stock still available. Where the demand 
is always small the available reserve is also small, 
and such reserve can only be built up by effort of 
a continuous character. An hour's steady walking 
is much more than equal to two separate half-hours 
taken at wide intervals. The possession of a good 
reserve gives confidence and ease, and that exercise 
which is to build up the necessary reserve must be 
aimed at, so as to cover all the possibihties in the 
life of each individual. If the absolute limit to the 
call upon the physical powers could be foretold, then 
it would be easy to lay down the routine for any life 
— this would need a training which would make the 
limit of strain to be faced quite attainable by the 
body and yet leave something still in hand. The 
wise man or woman will adopt a system of averages, 
and by realizing what calls are likely to be made upon 
the bodily stamina, will frame a mode of life which 
will enable all of these to be overtaken without over- 
exertion. 

Training 

Every one should be in training, and such training 
should be an explicit object of school-Hfe. Definite 
' training ' for a week or a month or a year is of the 
essence of folly. The physiologist who watches an 
Oxford and Cambridge boat race must realize with a 
scientific pang that though it certainly is glorious, 
it certainly is not right. Our ideas of Olympic 
Games come from old Greece, but not from the best 
of Greece. The Greek athletes became a professional 
class with whom the ordinary citizen could not 



EXERCISE, TRAINING, AND ATHLETICS 41 

compete. These athletes had their Aleiptes, who 
prescribed their diet and rubbed them in the approved 
method of the modem trainer. Diet in the earher 
times consisted mainly of wheaten bread, dried figs, 
and fresh cheese ; such meats as pork, etc., were 
later additions. Their special exercise consisted of 
taming bulls, carrying heavy loads, lifting weights, 
bending iron rods, punching leather sacks of sand, 
and so on — a programme not so far removed from 
that of the pugiHst of our time. Like the pugilist 
also, their end was frequently by apoplexy. Their 
rewards, in spite of that interesting fiction of the 
simple glory of a laurel wreath, were quite comparable 
with a world's champion belt and its pecuniary accom- 
paniments, or a ' benefit ' to a renowned cricketer or 
footballer. 

There is no intention to cast any slur upon the 
' professional ' as distinguished from the * amateur ' ; 
but while the professional will probably best attain 
some special excellence, it is not the best training for 
all-round life. 

A man in fair ordinary condition who proposes 
to win a sprint, steeplechase, or jump usually allows 
himself six weeks for this training. At his event he 
puts the last ounce at his disposal into a supreme 
effort : and in so doing he may get a dilated heart. 
As soon as his event is done, he eats, drinks, and lives 
as he did some six weeks before. Now that is pro- 
foundly wrong. Those six weeks should have been 
carefully retraced in the way of exercise, food, drink, 
tobacco, etc., and in addition a special allowance of 
at least a week made for the pecuhar strain to which 
he was subjected in his actual event. That is the 



42 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

commonest of common sense, and at the end of some 
twelve or thirteen weeks he would be precisely where 
he started. When careful training-off is omitted, 
harm is done, since the only natural method of re- 
moving superfluous mechanisms in excess of the daily 
needs is by degenerations ; and these occur. 

The lesson is obvious : if you want to race, race 
as you are, with no great revolution in your ways 
of life — making sure first, of course, that your mode 
of life is that which will permit you to race at all. 
This is borne out by any healthy schoolboy as well as 
by some of the best athletes England has produced. 
The man who can * do his hundred in evens ' without 
any alteration in his habits is a better ' life,' in an 
assurance sense, than the man who, by vigorous 
training, can take a fifth of a second off this time. 
' The only training that a young man requires, who 
is in the habit of living a moderate Uf e, is to avoid such 
known evils as spirits, tobacco, pastry, and new bread.' 

Practice is very different, and depends upon 
principles outlined in * Habit.' It is required that 
the connections — nervous, vascular, and muscular — 
in the special groupings to be undertaken shall be 
made as readily and easily as possible, and practice 
will result in the necessary ease or habit. It should 
be noted that if habit can ensure an easily working 
body, the greatest expenditure of energy is only made 
possible by the higher centres of the brain, by which 
extra nervous power can actually be poured into the 
working system. 

' Staleness,' which is liable to arise from too pro- 
longed or too vigorous a course of training, is chiefly 
due to the inability of the higher brain centres to 



EXERCISE, TRAINING, AND ATHLETICS 43 

reinforce the nerve streams in the practised system. 
It is a brain condition, and is to be treated by stop- 
ping or breaking the monotony of exercise or diet 
and by allowing a judicious rest. Here must be em- 
phasized the share of brain cells in producing fatigue, 
for long before lower centre, nerve, or muscle would 
protest, the condition of cortical cells inhibits action. 

The value of practice Hes in securing with the 
expenditure of a minimum of energy any desired 
movement, but though the constant repetition of a 
movement results in an increase of its power for a 
given stimulus, this increase of power is not pro- 
gressive and can never hope to reach that limit 
possible to concentrated effort. This is why no mere 
perfection of ' form ' will suffice to win. However 
perfect the apparently automatic part of the body's 
action, the brain must also participate to secure the 
best results. No system of training, then, whether 
Hmited or lifelong, is likely to be successful which 
ignores the brain. 

There is nothing which bears on life that has not 
some effect upon physical efficiency, and while there 
have unquestionably existed many individuals of 
magnificent physique and mental attainments who 
paid no conscious attention to such matters, our 
generation requires to understand, and to act con- 
sciously, since the times have so changed. 

The wearing of warm dressing-gowns till the 
moment before an event is a wrinkle known to the 
American athletes, and worthy of imitation in Eng- 
land. Neither muscles nor nerves can put on their 
best working pace unless they are warm : the 
difference in nerve impulse so caused may amount 



44 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

to many feet per second. Galen, who was physician 
to the gladiators in his native city, says, ' If any one 
immediately after undressing proceed to the more 
violent movements, before he has softened the whole 
body . . . he incurs the danger of breaking or strain- 
ing some of the solid parts. . . . By moderate rubbing 
with a linen cloth warm the whole body beforehand.' 
After this warm rubbing he counsels the slight 
inunction of oil. 

Methods of Exercise 

Three hundred foot-tons must be performed as 
external work every day by the average man, and 
the ordinary unconsidered daily actions consume 
a surprisingly large portion of this in the case of 
even the most sedentary. 

Various objections have been urged against walking 
when this has to be done in a city, and undoubtedly 
the country would be preferable. Even in London it 
is possible to walk for miles without losing sight of 
trees or grass. 

There is no excuse for remaining indoors on the 
pretext that as little of the town air should be im- 
bibed as possible. Bramall Lane, at Sheffield, is in the 
midst of soot and smoke, yet it is the headquarters of 
one of the most famous football teams in the kingdom. 

Even violent exercise may be indulged in with 
impunity in the centre of a large town, and this is 
well, for there is undoubtedly a somewhat depressing 
monotony in nothing but walking. The young of man, 
like that of any other animal, is for only a very short 
time satisfied with the resources contained in ordi- 
nary progression, and this soon becomes complicated 



EXERCISE, TRAINING, AND ATHLETICS 45 

by the instincts which lead to play. Something 
round will enter into play. Ball games have a 
foundation deep-laid in our development : from the 
simple tossing to and fro and the chase of elusive 
roundnesses there have evolved such complications 
as golf or modern football. 

Ease in rolling first caused a ball to be desired, 
and when there came to be understood the possibilities 
of the spin which might be imparted to it, the appeal 
of games with round things took a long lease on the 
affections of mankind. 

The essence of these ball games consists in walking 
and running, combined with a training of the eye to 
estimate flight and distance, and of the body to adjust 
itself to rapidly demanded positions, evidently an 
admirable preparation for the sterner necessities of 
life, which depend in large measure upon the perfec- 
tion of the movements made available by the playing. 

Any game or sport must be judged not from the 
extent to which it brings any muscle into play, but 
from the manner and degree of its exercise of 
those MUSCULAR SYSTEMS which our development 
teaches us are intended to work together. Muscles 
are not meant to work individually. In going for 
a walk or a run a man does not separate out his 
gastrocnemius, or principal calf muscle, and interro- 
gate it alone as to his condition. Movements, not 
muscles, should be studied. 

All athletics which exercise the lower limbs satisfy 
the first demand — that the powers of locomotion must 
be considered. Golf is probably the ideal form of a 
gentle exercise which, depending mainly upon walking, 
yet includes something of value to the training of 



46 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

arms, body, and eye. Cricket has similarly its re- 
commendations. Skating is always excellent, as are 
hockey, football, and dancing. The advantages of 
swimming require no exposition ; by it every group 
of muscles of the body are fully exercised, but it must 
be remembered that it is a severe test of condition 
and stamina. Ten minutes in the water of the sea 
is sufficient for any one, no matter what the condi- 
tions, and the same statement will apply to the 
swimming that occurs in baths. 

Prominent among exercises lacking in complete- 
ness is rowing, at least in its humbler forms where 
the slide is unknown, and cycling ; the former leaves 
too little work to the legs, and the latter too little 
to the arms. Jumping, hammer-throwing, and 
weight-lifting fail in that the ex( rtion is too con- 
centrated. It is a safe rule that abnormal efforts 
which leave the competitor helpless at the end of 
his event are foolish. 

Boxing, or rather sparring for the love of it, and 
step-dancing are the best indoor exercises, and there 
can be little question as to which of these is likely 
to be the most useful. 

Singing is an excellent exercise for the lungs apart 
altogether from the value of the rhythm in its effects 
upon the mind. This is likely to be recognized in 
the training of the British Army, if Surgeon-General 
Evatt succeeds in inculcating the example of Japan, 
where the value of singing to the fighting man is 
thoroughly reahzed. 

Women are not intended to excel in any game 
requiring either strength or speed. As tennis-players 
the best of them are not more than half as good as 



EXERCISE, TRAINING, AND ATHLETICS 47 

the best men, and as runners their build, if they are 
built as women are intended to be, is against them. 
There are women who have run to hounds on foot 
season after season and also reared a family, but this 
as a fact is curious. 

Gymnastics and any other form of physical culture 
that has to be taken indoors should only be resorted 
to when it is impossible to have outdoor exercise. 
But gymnastics, since it concerns itself with teaching 
or helping the body to perform definite movements, 
is far ahead of the systems which treat individual 
muscles by causing them to undergo aimless move- 
ments. Dumb-bells and Indian clubs have their 
uses, but are lifeless and mechanical as compared 
with games, and the actions are too likely to become 
more or less automatic. Rubbers and other appliances 
are ingenious, but England will be in a bad way if she 
has ever to depend upon a nation of bedroom athletes. 

What benefits the muscles benefits also circulation 
and respiration, i.e. the whole body. A brisk walk 
implies the consumption of four times the oxygen 
required during rest. If the respirations are to be 
more rapid, naturally nothing must be allowed to 
interfere with them, so that along with exercise must 
always go a freely acting heart and lungs. When 
the heart cannot keep pace with the demanded 
speed ' stitch ' ensues, and one's * second wind ' 
means that the heart has succeeded in accommodating 
itself to the strain. Too great a * stitch,' resulting 
in absolute breathlessness, is a warning that must 
not be disregarded. Evidently, with this need of 
rapid blood supply, exercise should not be taken 
when any part of the body is in special need of blood. 



48 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

as is the stomach j ust after a meal. Before breakfast, 
only that amoimt of exercise necessary to expand 
the lungs fully and to clear the remnants of the 
sluggish night air from its inmost recesses is desirable 
— a few minutes' yawning or stretching does for most 
people, or simply swinging the arms alone or with 
light dumb-bells. For the majority, the time spent 
in the morning tub and rub down, shaving, etc., with 
ten minutes in the air before breakfast, will suffice 
for all such needs. 

Summary 

Training should be a lifelong care and not merely 
for some special competition. The dismay with 
which the British are viewing the success of other 
nations in Ol5anpic competitions is ludicrous. Let 
the Americans perfect their methods of so-called 
' training ' : these are entirely out of harmony with 
all-round development and differ for each event, being 
directed only to that event and to no other. We 
have the evidence of all history that such specialism 
while it wins prizes is not beneficial to the country 
which adopts it. The people of which all the members 
are capable, able-bodied citizens is much more likely 
to achieve and maintain national greatness than the 
people among which under the latest athletic con- 
ditions are to be found the greatest number of record- 
holders. ' Record-holding ' and ' fittest ' are not 
synonymous terms. 

Exercise in daylight and in open air, and exercise 
directed to complete living of mind and body, is 
that form of exercise which will most benefit the 
individual and the nation. 



CHAPTER IV 

FATIGUE AND MASSAGE 

METCHNIKOFF has declared that Ufe which is 
not ended by disease or accident should 
extend over one hundred and forty years ; and this 
statement he buttresses by physiology, pathology, 
and his own researches, as well as by less justifiable 
BibHcal deductions. 

Natural death should occur as the result of changes 
induced by the imperceptible effects of gradually 
cumulative fatigue, and therefore the rational method 
of prolonging life is to prevent the harmful effects of 
the products of fatigue. The blood of a dead-tired 
animal is actually poisonous to another of the same 
species, whereas the blood of the untired can be 
injected without harm. 

In the deterioration of body tissues, caused by 
the gradual action of fatigue or by poison such 
as alcohol, is the explanation of the progressive 
thickening of arteries, and the meaning of the 
famous dictum of Cazalis that ' a man is as old as 
his arteries.' 

Another factor in the production of devitalized 
arteries is ' strain,' which alters the rate and impact 
of the blood stream. 

A third cause of deterioration is lack of activity, 
which, by failing to secure the necessary circulation, 

D 



50 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

causes an accumulation of effete products, as in the 
atrophy of disuse. 

The prevention of strain and the removal of fatigue 
products is the physiological guide to the prolongation 
of life, though such knowledge is far from that of an 
elixir of Ufe. 

The essence of fatigue is the action upon the cells 
of the brain of certain acids and acid salts formed 
during the conversion of the stored up energy of 
the tissues into effective work ; an acidity which is 
normally removed as fast as possible from the body in 
the urine. By the circulation of the lymph and blood 
these substances are removed from the points of their 
manufacture into the general circulation, through 
which they reach the brain, and laving its cells with 
their benumbing influence, cause the brain to call a 
halt on further activity. For the ready energizing 
of brain and all body cells, they must be surrounded 
by alkaUne fluids. Could weak alkaline fluids be 
injected to reach the protesting cells, then fatigue 
would vanish ; but nature's way is by gradual 
elimination, and for it rest is necessary. If by any 
sudden excitement the circulation of the blood is 
hastened, the same effect is secured temporarily. Thus 
a burst of anger, joy, or other profound emotion is well 
known to overcome the most deep-seated fatigue. 

The paralysing acidity is naturally removed during 
rest or sleep. There are many devices by which 
fatigue may be ignored for a greater or lesser period, 
but they only postpone the final reckoning. Without 
considering the action of drugs, we may note that 
there axe articles in daily use whose chief aim is the 
delaying of fatigue, but of them all there is only one 



FATIGUE AND MASSAGE 51 

group which directly stimulates the cerebral cells. 
Coffee, by virtue of its caffeine, and tea and cocoa 
to a lesser extent, have this cerebral action. Since 
none of these substances is a food, it is very evident 
that they supply only a goad, and that too prolonged 
indulgence will result in disaster. These articles 
— drugs they undoubtedly are — are not to be used 
unguardedly more than any other drug. Alcohol 
comes into a different category ; it temporarily excites 
the circulation and whips up the heart, and so over- 
comes fatigue : but in the end both the products of 
fatigue and of the alcohol are cumulative in clogging 
the brain cells. In the natural process the brain 
cells are the first to warn us when we have done 
enough. If by our stimulants we obscure warnings 
it is evident that a worse thing will happen, such as 
neurasthenia, or more irreparable brain damage. 

Massage 

Massage is a device of almost universal value, but 
one which has hitherto been far too hmited in its 
application. Hippocrates writes of rubbing or 
massage : ' Rubbing can bind a joint that is too loose, 
and loosen a joint that is too rigid. It can make flesh 
and cause parts to waste ; moderate rubbing makes 
them grow.' 

Homer speaks of rubbing and anointing. Herodi- 
cus lived two thousand four hundred years before 
Sandow, but cured disease by gjnunastics and rubbing, 
and himself lived to be a hundred. 

By stimulating the circulation waste products are 
more quickly removed from their place of origin, from 
the brain which registers their presence, and from the 



52 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

body generally. To quicken the heart by the direct 
action upon it of drugs of course suggests itself, but 
if the waste products are sent more rapidly into the 
blood stream and this stream itself quickened, the 
same end will be achieved, and that is what massage 
not only professes but does. Every one believes in 
its benefits who also believes in the virtues for himself 
or his horse of * a good rub-down.' Among certain 
savage peoples it is a ceremonial and the highest 
gift of hospitality, and travellers tell us of its wonder- 
ful soothing and stimulating effects. 

The play of the muscles, as well as their own 
contraction and squeezing, promotes the sluggish 
flow of the lymph, which bathes the cells of the body. 
This l3miph contains all the excretions of such cells 
as well as their nutriment, so that the need of its 
being moved on regularly is evident. In the removal 
of depressing excretions also hes the secret of that 
real joy of hfe which ordinarily can only be obtained 
by bodily exercise. 

Massage takes the place of voluntary muscle 
movements in promoting the lymph and venous flow 
to the heart, if the rational direction, that of * ana- 
tripsis ' or rubbing ' up,' be followed. It is clear that 
rubbing a leg downwards towards the toes will 
actually retard those processes it is meant to facilitate. 
Massage used to be extremely laborious work, and it 
was recommended that the physician who undertakes 
it should drink a glass of good old wine every fifteen 
minutes ; but massage is a matter of skill as. much as 
of endurance. 

Gentle rubbing of any part of the body stimulates 
growth, a fact known and utihzed by beauty doctors 



FATIGUE AND MASSAGE 53 

who secure the success of their own face foods by 
rubbing them in; while it is equally true that 
vigorous rubbing will remove superfluous fat — a part 
of the truth known to those who treat obesity 
successfully, with no matter what preparations, by 
vigorous friction. 

Massage is not, however, a matter of simply 
rubbing anyhow so long as the direction, towards 
the heart, is right. It necessitates a considerable 
amount of manipulative skill. In this country we 
are still content to leave the virtues of an admirable 
treatment in the hands of bonesetters and the un- 
qualified, but on the Continent, and especially in 
France, they have long had an appreciation of its 
importance, and do not think it beneath the dignity 
of the physician himself. Germany was slower than 
France, but at the University of Berlin there is a 
' Professor of Massage.' 

The action of massage may be demonstrated by a 
simple experiment. Squeeze along the vein running 
on the inner side of the ankle towards the heart and 
it will empty ; the vacuum thus created cannot be 
filled from above, on account of valves in the vein, 
and it has therefore to be replenished from below, 
which means that the venous circulation has been 
stimulated. Such a movement in a precisely similar 
fashion affects a nmnber of lymphatics, so that this 
circulation also is encouraged, and as the lymph is 
the fluid most intimately surrounding the cells, these 
cells will be relieved from stagnant material. That 
is what is achieved by simple, gentle stroking, and 
the next process is naturally directed to reaching the 
deeper tissues. 



^4 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

It is in this deep kneading that the skill particularly 
is required, for bruising is most particularly to be 
avoided. Muscles are toned and nerves soothed, so 
that while the total effect is sedation, there is after- 
wards the ability to undertake muscular work should 
this be needed, no matter what the previous fatigue. 
The flicking, slapping, or tappings that sometimes 
finish the process have also their stimulant effect. 
Such fiickings — birchings indeed — were at one time 
a jealously guarded secret for the rehabihtation of 
those devitalized by excess. 

By promoting a feeble circulation massage is an 
invaluable beautifier, while for all weariness and 
many of the simpler aches and pains there is nothing 
more efficacious. In cases where violent exercise 
is to be undertaken it is an excellent preparative. 
During the intervals of a contest, as for example 
boxing, nothing can take its place as a revivifier, 
and the same may be said where it is required to 
recover quickly from the bruising, fatigue, and de- 
pression consequent upon prolonged strain of either 
body or spirit. 



CHAPTER V 

CLOTHING 

CLOTHING with the average person means the 
preservation first of decency, and second of an 
even temperature. A few fortunate ladies are able 
also to regard it as it was intended to be when first 
discovered — an ornament and attraction. 

The key to all health lies in the simple statement 
that the best temperature of the body is at some 98° 
Fahr. ' Man is homoiothermal, and 98*4° is the 
optimum temperature for the average healthy in- 
dividual. 

From the tribes of Tierra del Fuego we realize 
that clothing is not essential for even purposes of 
warmth, and that the skin can become habituated to 
the greatest rigours of cold, while in Central Africa, 
etc., we are led to perceive that they may be dis- 
pensed with as a protective against heat. Even our 
woad-painted ancestors found life supportable in 
these latitudes without clothes. 

But there is another side to the matter. Clothes 
are a matter of economy. The body heat has to be 
maintained either by consuming food and burning 
up its energy by work, or it must be saved from 
undue wasting by protecting the skin, which looses 
the body heat from undue exposure. It is cheaper 
to preserve heat than to manufacture it. Clothes 

55 



56 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

then, in addition to warmth, must maintain intact 
the skin functions. 

Since we are discussing a means of economizing the 
resources of the human organism, clothes clearly must 
add as little weight as possible, and investigation 
must be directed to those materials which possess 
most warmth for a given weight. The desideratum is 
a covering at once light and a bad conductor of heat. 
The lightest of all non-conducting coverings is still 
air, and those marvellously warm coverings wool, 
fur, and feathers are in the last analysis interrupted 
layers of air. The actual substances used to form the 
strata and cellular air spaces seem to be of compara- 
tively slight importance. 

The wearing of clothes in layers has arisen from 
the impossibihty of obtaining in the one material the 
dual possibilities of warmth and cleanliness or skin 
protection. Naturally the warm is the external of 
the two. Least interference with the functions of 
the skin is obtained by the clothes being highly 
absorptive, a quality very evidently required since 
some fifty ounces of water from the sweat glands alone 
are evaporated by the average adult daily, while in 
addition there is a continuous though slight exhala- 
tion of other gases — two litres a day of carbonic acid, 
for example — along with some solid constituents 
in the sweat, and a comparatively large amount of 
sebum or oil from sebaceous glands. 

It remains for each individual to apply the necessary 
tests to his own raiment, with the recollection also 
that, if there are differences in individuals, there 
should also be differences in the amount and absorp- 
tive and non-conducting qualities of their clothes. 



CLOTHING 57 



Clothes 



The clothing of the few-days-old infant should be 
investigated by the father, since, after thousands of 
years of feminine inventiveness, the unfortunate child 
is almost as poorly catered for in this respect as ever. 
Next the skin of the trunk, but covering it for only 
a few inches, is usually placed a tiny chilly cotton or 
cambric garment somewhat resembling a chemise, 
and useless for absorption or warmth. Encircling 
the abdomen is round after round of an interminable 
binder, also non-absorbent : it is no exaggeration 
to say that the average man, when he first sees this 
binder applied, will turn giddy in sj^mpathy with 
the infant as it is revolved and revolved and revolved 
in conformity with the needs of this appalUng 
garment. The excuse for it is umbihcal rupture ; 
but two folds of a more suitable substance would be 
ample. Outside these articles are layer after layer 
equally ridiculous. In the result the arms are left 
practically unprotected, the chest and belly are 
defrauded of possibility of expansion, and, finally, 
yards of dragging, chnging long-clothes are super- 
added to check to the greatest possible extent the 
movements of the legs. What the child needs is a 
soft, flexible, absorbent covering from neck to heels, 
including the arms down to the hands, and made to 
fasten efficiently and completely down the back ; 
outside this a substantial non-conducting substance 
also fastening at the back ; and for purposes of adorn- 
ment any third superficial addition that may be 
suggested, always providing that the looseness of the 
other clothes is not infringed on. 



58 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

Clothes of children slightly older, while they cannot 
entirely ignore the lack of formation of fixed habits, 
have yet to be planned on account of that un- 
cleanliness which joys in * mud-pies ' and similar 
delights. The passage from the petticoated to the 
trousered stage in boys is guided apparently by 
custom or fashion. However ' sweet * the combina- 
tion of short socks, bare brown knees, and dark 
knickers may be, it is entirely unphysiological. It 
may be noted that joints are places of httle meta- 
bolism ; they take little part in the processes which 
originate body heat, and are dependent for their supply 
on sources in their neighbourhood. They are points 
of assailability by cold, and require all the more to 
be protected. There is a common affliction of grow- 
ing boys which has in the past been comfortably 
referred to as ' growing pains.' These pains are, 
however, rheumatic. 

In girls, at the age which corresponds to the 
trouser stage of boys, there is usually less reason to 
complain of their clothing. 

In more than one respect her older sisters might 
learn a useful lesson from the clothing of early girl- 
hood. The boots at this age are adapted, so far as 
possible, to the shape of the feet and comfort, and 
the weight of skirts, petticoats, etc., is not dependent 
from the waist, but, by its attachments to the cloth- 
ing of the upper part of the body, is suspended — as 
it ought to be — from the shoulders. So suitable, as 
a rule, is the clothing of girls of the better classes 
as compared with that of boys of the same age that 
there are writers who credit this with the better 
physique possessed by such girls. When to the 



CLOTHING 59 

short shoulder-supported skirts of the girl is added 
an additional foot in length of material, and the total 
weight of such material transferred from the shoulders 
to a band compressing the belly, it is easy to 
perceive the harm that is done. Dr. Cantlie con- 
demns unsparingly even the belt worn by men at 
cricket, etc., if this is girt above the crest of the 
haunch bones, and not just below it. Much more 
serious is the harm to women caused by the too firm 
pressure of waistbands ; they are responsible for 
many of the disabling minor pelvic inflammations. 

Among adults the average man's clothing is pre- 
ferable in every way and for every reason to that of 
the average woman. It is lighter, warmer, more 
suitable to every variety of movement, more sanitary, 
better adapted to the protection of all susceptible 
parts, and is carried with a less expenditure of energy, 
and with a minimum of harm caused by either weight 
or tightness. The King of Cambodia is reported to 
have said : ' European women wear far too many 
clothes. They should wear no more than two gar- 
ments, one fitting close to the skin, the other covering 
the first. Besides they harness themselves too tight 
... at least their legs should be free.* Examples of 
a rational feminine garb his Majesty was able to 
illustrate vividly by the production of his own dancing 
girls. 

By a curiosity of custom all men must go with 
covered head in the public streets, and even, by an 
unwisdom which the profane might readily explain, 
in Parliament itself. It cannot be urged that the 
head must be covered to protect it from dust and 
other contamination, since nothing can be said upon 



6o THE CARE OF THE BODY 

this point which does not apply with still greater 
force to the face — and that is always uncovered. 
Of all men's hats the Panama is the lightest ; it is 
also the easiest fitting ; its colour is in its favour ; 
it is sufficiently cool to temper the rigours of the 
Tropics and warm enough for a body-region that 
actually requires no protection on this account. 
Of the * bowler,* all that can be claimed is that while 
for every other reason there is nothing to choose 
between it and the top-hat, it has the advantage 
in being less high and more weather-worthy. But 
there is not a single point upon which the top-hat 
can be eulogized, except that it is not quite so hot 
as the motor-cap. The boating-straw is occasionally 
efficacious in shielding from sunlight through its 
possession of a brim, and it certainly does not add 
unduly to the height ; but that is all that can be urged, 
since it is difficult to keep on the head, is by no means 
as light as it looks, and even when well padded is 
with difficulty made comfortable. Caps of every 
kind are dirty. They consist of a layer of almost 
impervious material lying close on the hair, and are 
hot and unhealthy. The absence of pressure upon the 
arteries, and indeed of any firm constricting margin, 
accounts for their popularity, as well as the ease with 
which they maintain their position on the head, and 
the advantage of the peak for shielding the eyes. 

Male upper garments may be slumped as short or 
long. As at present made they all meet more or less 
the need of non-conduction and are warm proportion- 
ately — a property which is increased when to them is 
added a silk lining. 

Waistcoats are as absurd as the first garment which 



CLOTHING 6i 

approaches the skin of the new-born child. They are 
thinnest at the back and sides where are situated the 
bulk of the lungs. They afford no protection to the 
kidneys and but httle to the belly. They do not 
even extend to the apex of the lung, and the apex of 
the lung is the favourite settling-place for tubercle 
bacilli. 

For the lower limbs men are limited to knickers, 
and their accompaniment of thick warm stockings, 
or trousers with a diminution in the foot-wear. If 
the trouser has its insanitary aspect by approaching 
so near to the ground, there are yet certain advantages 
of warmth to be gained by an outer loosely fitting 
garment. That * tuming-up ' of trousers at the feet 
is as objectionable in daily Ufe as it is found by the 
management at, for example, Monte Carlo, and for 
the same reason, viz. that in the fold extraneous 
articles and material may lodge. 

The proper warmth of body having been secured by 
a judicious system of external apparel, the needs of 
the skin on the other count will be satisfied if ' sweati- 
ness ' is avoided. The need being understood, there 
is no excuse for any man complaining of his under- 
clothing, as there is no need to restrict oneself to the 
presumable impeccabihty, with its discomforts, of 
wool, since cotton, linen, and silk of the same value 
for the purpose may now be obtained. 

Of what avail to wash one's hands carefully and 
then to embrue them with the weeks of accumulated 
dirtiness contained in pockets ? Money, keys, 
letters, and hands themselves all contribute to the 
condition. The trouser pockets are the chief 
offenders. Turn them inside out in a suit that has 



62 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

had a few weeks' steady use, and the dirtiness will 
call aloud. 

Probably no article of clothing has been more 
maligned, and probably no garment is more useful 
when it is used properly than the white shirt. 
Its scientific function is that of revealer of dirt. 
The essence of its being lies in its spotless cleanliness. 
The daily interposition of one absolutely clean gar- 
ment between the ingrained dirt of the outer clothes 
and the semi-saturated layer of the underclothing 
is of great h3^gienic value to the body. As an article 
of genuine clothing it is of course contemptible, as it is 
neither absorbent nor warm. 

The change to * evening dress ' with its accompany- 
ing enforcement of ablutions that might otherwise 
be neglected, is praiseworthy : it means a complete 
change of the layers of air which rest comparatively 
stagnant between the different garments, and the 
skin and the individual cannot but benefit by such 
change. To the actual physical benefit is added 
a more subtle stimulus, due in some cases to the 
intangible alteration of the mental and cerebral 
attitude by the immediate corporeal environment. 

Evening garb itself is a very different matter, 
particularly the feminine variety of it upon which 
so much war has been waged. The old quatrain 
defends, yet points the attack : — 

' In an evening dress, the nymphs nowadays, 
Scarce an atom of dress on them leave ; 
Nor blame them — for what is an evening dress 
But a dress that is fit for an Eve ? ' 

While, indeed, change of dress is praiseworthy. 



CLOTHING 63 

and while naturally the texture of clothes worn in- 
doors may differ greatly from that of those designed 
for the varied requirements of the day, there is only 
custom to ban us from selecting any form or colour 
we choose for evening wear, and the exuberance of 
shirt-front with which evening afflicts men is little 
more sensible than some of the follies of women. 

Amongst articles of clothing for women such 
monstrosities as openwork blouses, openwork stock- 
ings, meaningless garments without sleeves, corsets, 
skirts extending to the ground, etc., sufficiently 
condemn themselves. A modified kilt, or the ordin- 
ary walking skirt slightly shorter than at present, 
would preserve that lack of bifurcation which 
apparently is requisite for the manifestation of sex. 

A vicious standard of feminine beaut}^ definitely 
attributable to the morals and demands of men has 
preserved some form of wasp waist for at least thirty- 
five hundred years, with the corset that accompanies 
it. And this instrument has been held responsible 
for red noses, palpitation, greasy skins, ovarian and 
uterine troubles, premature wrinkles, grey hair, 
varicose veins, and piles. 

Athletic garb proper, while in days of ancient 
Greece it resembled that in which ' Mulvaney took 
Lungtungpen,' is simply, in our time, that minimum 
which meets a modern canon of decency. We note, 
however, that flannel for even the cricketer has been 
displaced. 

The late Mr. Gladstone bewailed that the outfit 
of the modern undergraduate, as he stood, could 
be represented in value by a five-pound note ; but 
on this flimsiness we congratulate ourselves. Our 



64 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

fathers built clothes as they built houses, to stand or 
to wear for ever ; but such clothes could not fail 
to become intolerably dirty. We know that a rag 
doll is efficient to cause a z5miotic outbreak six months 
after it has been used by an affected child, and there 
is little doubt that certain inexplicable past calamities 
have been due to carefully hoarded clothes. 

If the practice were insisted on of workmen wearing 
washable overalls, the English streets and public 
conveyances would be greatly improved in appear- 
ance and the workmen themselves cultivate a greatly 
needed self-respect ; at present they are an offence 
to every bodily sense, and a menace to every attempt 
at sanitation. 



CHAPTER VI 

THE SKIN 

A* GOOD ' skin cannot be other than a healthy 
one, though equal degrees of health are not 
necessarily represented by the same appearances. 
Any attempt to make the complexion of a dark, coarse- 
fibred brunette take on the texture, finish, and gloss 
of a thin-skinned and fairer sister is doomed to failure. 
Anaemia with its pallor of skin and mucous mem- 
branes ; jaundice and its distinctive superficial 
tinting ; constipation and other defective intestinal 
actions and their resulting muddy or earthy com- 
plexions ; with a host of others, write their history 
plain to the most casual observer. The skin, like the 
eyes, bears faithful witness to the various careless- 
ness and imprudences of life's conduct. The seat 
of innumerable nerve endings ; the fabric upon which 
abut over ten thousand square feet of sweat glands ; 
in which are set hundreds of thousands of hairs, the 
skin is protective to the whole body, the principal 
regulator of its working heat, and the most important 
of the mechanisms by means of which man attains to 
a harmony with his environment. Consider the help- 
lessness of man were he unable to distinguish by the 
nerves of his skin between fire and water ; or, what 
would result if there were no warning of what is pain- 
ful ; or, again, what would happen if he were deprived 



66 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

of the sense of touch. Cool it too greatly, and a finger 
will be lost without pain or warning. Heat it beyond 
that point where it can control the internal heat, 
and apoplexy and death will follow. Thicken it 
unduly, as occurs in that curious and rare condition 
called * scleroderma,' and all bodily movements 
become difficult and finally impossible, for the re- 
sistance offered by this ' hide-boundness.' 

That superficial, shghtly greasy surface, clothed 
with an impervious coating of horn or keratin, is 
not skin proper at all. This, with a few other cell 
layers also more or less converted into keratin and 
the strata from which they are derived, is merely a 
skin product directed towards its own protection, 
and is, in fact, precisely what its name indicates — 
' epidermis.' The outermost layers of epidermis 
consist of dead cells, united in one continuous, im- 
pervious membrane, interrupted by the openings 
of sweat glands, and the exit of hairs with each its 
own sebaceous follicle. Deeper, the epidermis is 
formed of living cells, from which the outermost are 
renewed. A man changes his epidermis much 
oftener than every seven years. 

The lines of importance in ' Finger-prints ' are due 
to the arrangement of nerve-endings upon ridges 
formed in the true skin, and are most numerous 
where touch is most sensitive — in finger-tips. 

Epidermis with hairs, sebaceous glands, and sweat 
ducts being all dependent for their blood and nerves 
upon the deeper true skin or dermis, which draws in 
its turn from the blood supply and nervous force and 
material of the body, there is no difficulty in per- 
ceiving why the rational treatment of the skin is 



THE SKIN 67 

through the preservation of the health of the body. 
Beyond keeping it warm, clean, and uninjured there 
is no direct method of benefiting the skin. 

Deficiency of clothing, or dirty, unsuitable or ex- 
cessive clothing, will account for skin affections like 
chilblains, harsh or * chapped ' hands or features, 
ringworm and other parasitic diseases, oily skins, 
excessive sweating, corns, and so on. Too limited a 
use of water as well as, be it noted, too^uch washing, 
will tend to definite lesions, and it causes usually a 
definite skin rash, as might be expected. 

The influence of water upon the skin was dealt 
with in discussing bathing, but there is a difference 
between the water which is most suitable for drinking 
and that which serves best for washing. Country 
rain-water is most desirable for toilet purposes ; 
because of its ' softness,' that is, freedom from lime 
salts dissolved by water drawn from the earth. 

What should be aimed at in washing is simply the 
removal of all matter superficial to the outermost 
layer of the epidermis, and this with a minimum 
of effect upon the epidermis itself. The persistent 
application of chemicals, and that is what the use 
of soap amounts to, can hardly be regarded as a 
mechanical process of this desired nature. Soap, in 
older times was probably a mixture of fine ashes ; and 
of the value of such powder many smokers are still 
aware, since they utilise their cigar ash in brushing 
their teeth. A similar mixture with similar action is 
a handful of fine oatmeal used instead of soap where 
the skin is irritable. 

Water alone has insufficient power to remove oily 
secretions, and the colder the water the less its effect. 



68 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

There is sound reason for the Mohammedan objection 
to water other than ' running ' for toilet purposes. 
Presumably we trust to the towel to cleanse from 
dirty water. The rational method followed by a few 
is to use a second basin or bathful since the running 
tap is neither convenient nor economical. 

The faithful user of soap, of whatever degree of 
refinement, can hardly hope to possess a natural 
skin. Milk baths and rose-water baths are merely 
freaks of fashion. None can compete with the simple 
device of finely-ground oatmeal in water. It is not 
expected that soap will be displaced, but it is advised 
that more care be taken in its choice, and such care, 
will best begin with the skin of the infant. 

The best soap will contain a minimum of free 
alkali, and must justify the title of ' superfatted,' and 
soft warm water must be used for it to cleanse 
sufficiently. There is no need of free alkali since, 
when soap is dissolved in water, it splits to a certain 
extent and liberates some portion of the alkali 
composing it. The tendency of alkalies to destroy 
all proteid or albuminous surfaces by dissolving them 
must produce a weakening effect upon the skin. 
By the action of alkali upon the sebum of the skin 
has been explained the cleansing power, but this 
may probably be quite as much due to the ability of 
soap to emulsify the oily debris upon our surfaces. 

The fatty basis of the soap is of equal importance, 
and care must be taken that this has been neither 
unsuitable nor rancid. 

Water should be at an absolute minimum in the 
soap itself, and the lasting power, with an unchanged 
condition till the tablet is a mere wafer, is the best 



THE SKIN 69 

test of freedom from this adulteration. Cocoanut 
soaps are particularly suggestive of dishonesty from 
the ease with which they may be made to contain a 
very large proportion of water, and yet remain per- 
fectly hard. But cocoanut soap has its use, since it 
can be utilized with salt water. Yellow soap con- 
tains resin, and a mottled soap is not, as it used to 
be, a comparative proof of purity. Strongly scented 
soaps are always objectionable, not merely from their 
smell but because the object they have in view is 
simply disguise, while medicated soaps are largely 
futile. Norman Walker says : ' Theoretically, soaps 
should be more useful as vehicles for drugs than they 
are.' One of the best antiseptic soaps that is made 
contains, the makers claim, some five per cent, of 
carbohc acid. Yet at each washing of the hands in 
which this soap is used a pint of water or more is 
poured into a basin, and the small portion of soap 
that is dissolved to make the lather is supposed to 
form an efficient defence against organisms ! To 
make your soap of any antiseptic value it would be 
necessary to dissolve a four ounce tablet of it in each 
pint. Walker again says : * They (medicated soaps) 
have their chief sphere in cases where the action of 
soap as soap is desired.' 

Anointing the body has been practised from very 
ancient times, and the oil with which the heroes of 
Greece were saluted at the hands of fair maidens has 
its counterpart to-day in the cold creaming with 
which the lady of fashion refreshes herself after her 
late nights. Before athletic contests, too, it was the 
habit in the older times to rub oil into the body, 
though this was roundly denounced by Pliny as an 



70 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

error imported by the Greeks whilst other philo- 
sophers considered oil the medicine of madness on 
account of its effect upon athletes. One can readily 
see the value of an oily skin to wrestlers, and also its 
use in warding off cold from those stripped for their 
contests. In the actual treatment of the skin and 
body by rubbing, the oil was useful simply to prevent 
skin irritation. Oil on the healthy skin is useless. 
Cold cream comes into a different category. 

The Face 

The face is the most important of the regions where 
may be observed * objective mind,' as Clouston terms 
it. For it is by the muscles of the face that we can 
still convey the greatest number of explicit messages, 
without the intervention of speech. Undoubtedly 
this ability to show physical states by facial muscular 
groupings is becoming less valuable, since it is an 
exceedingly inferior method of communication, but 
the retirement of facial muscles into obscurity has been 
postponed indefinitely, on account of * beauty of 
expression,' such beauty depending upon the pre- 
ponderance of special muscle groupings. The blank 
face of ignorance, or idiocy, shows readily how 
astonishingly much of beauty is due to the action of 
muscles of expression. 

In infants, on account of the naivete and shame- 
lessness with which they enunciate immediately any 
emotion of injury, joy, or complaint, physiognomy 
approaches to an exact science. Abdominal troubles, 
for example, draw oral lines of suffering ; respiratory 
affections have their nasal signs, and brain irritations 
are indicated by a most unchildhke frown. Facial 



THE SKIN 71 

habits are soon acquired, and while the undesirable 
ones definitely mar beauty, they have a reflex effect 
upon the individual which is all for harm. 

The notorious unwinking stare of those of our race 
who thus convict themselves of possession of the 
highest ' ton,' and the general unemotional appear- 
ance of the typical English of either sex, as imderstood 
by critics from abroad, arises, we like to beheve, 
from a high appreciation of an unUned skin, and not 
from vacuity or hardness of heart or head. There 
is no doubt also that any one who smiles by elevating 
his cheeks, and crinkling the skin horizontally at the 
outer margins of his eyes, will sooner or later be 
afflicted with wrinkles. It is true that there is com- 
pensation in the kindliness of expression, but that 
may not appeal sufficiently to those who prefer not 
to carry such a certificate of character. 

Wrinkles may be avoided, or those alone incurred 
which shall be least disfiguring. The primary con- 
sideration is supervise the expressions, and con- 
sequently the states of one's mind, a matter which 
goes very deeply into hygiene. But the skin itself 
has a say in the degree of readiness with which the 
folds in it induced by muscular action shall be stereo- 
typed, by its inabihty to eliminate these when the 
muscular action has ceased ; and this will depend 
upon its health and elasticity. Use will cause them, 
misuse more than all, but time has no more to do 
with it than it has in terminating our fives. Three 
straight lines running up and down was the visiting 
card used by Old Age in the Autocrat of the Break- 
fast Table, and old age according to Wendell Holmes 
begins at forty-six. The brow of Spencer was, how- 



72 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

ever, unlined to practically the end, and this he him- 
self explained by never allowing himself to sit down 
to what is termed hard-thinking. He beheved fully 
in waiting, if one were equipped. ' Don't worry,* 
therefore, after all the fundamental rules of health, is 
the first of all maxims that concerns the facial skin. 

Elasticity is a most important requisite for re- 
covery from any of the set Hues into which the skin 
may be thrown, and the maintenance of such elasticity 
must be at the basis of all cosmetic treatments which 
are not to do harm. Firm strapping of any part 
of the face will clearly interfere with this property ; 
and it will most evidently add to an already existing 
lack of tone, with a future increase of the evil it is 
supposed to attack. Since wrinkles depend partly 
upon relaxation of the skin and partly upon relaxation 
of some muscles accompanied by over-use of others, 
an effective treatment must include all the factors. 

Steaming the face will attend to a general relaxa- 
tion, will ' open the pores,' and soothe the muscles. 
From the extent to which the face is exposed, and 
the necessity of frequent washing, the water should 
be soft as well as warm, and a superfatted good soap 
used for cleansing. It is in the softness of steam — 
which, of course, cannot contain the mineral salts 
which no tap- water is without — that there lies an un- 
questionable advantage. But whether steam or 
warm soft water be used, it requires to be followed by 
the bracing effect of a cool water, which also should 
be soft. An occasional facial massage is of great 
value, and to assist this the smallest possible 
quantity of pure oHve oil. The oil is not intended 
for absorption ; this is not necessary with an ordinary 



THE SKIN 73 

skin, and is of doubtful value with any except the ex- 
cessively dry, but it affords a preventive of irritation. 
Such massage requires a knowledge of physiology 
or anatomy, or at least of the compHcated hues of 
lymph and venous flow. The object is to promote 
circulation by advancing the fluids of the skin and 
not to retard it by pressure in the wrong direction. 

So far as diet is active as a beautifier only a word 
is permitted here. Alcohol is absolutely condemned 
from its dilating effect upon facial, and particularly 
nasal, blood-vessels. Meat should be limited to its 
minimum. Milk, fresh fruits, and vegetables are the 
best staple, with bread, cereals, and fish, of course, 
of any diet. ' Professors,' interviewed on sea-fronts, 
who manage to subsist upon three gallons of milk a 
day, or the lives of ladies who die at one hundred and 
ten and thereabouts and who possess the skin of a 
girl of twenty by virtue of living forty years or so on 
milk, may or may not be veracious. Milk is an 
excellent adjunct to the food of civilization, but the 
dilated stomach must follow the imbibition of such 
quantities. Dyspepsia, needless to say, vies with 
alcohol in its production of unbecoming nasal tones. 

Creams and powders of many kinds are in feminine 
demand, but these have their demerits. The typical 
cold cream is the pharmacopoeial unguentum Aquae 
Rosae, and such creams are not intended to be used 
like ointments and rubbed in. They are best applied 
by thickly smearing the skin ; by the continual 
evaporation of water from the large surface thus pre- 
sented to the air, and a compensatory removal of 
water from the underlying skin, they give the pleasant 
coohiess for which they are intended. Pure oils, fats 



74 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

or grease, when rubbed in, enter the superficial cells, 
and to dry skins are to this extent therefore beneficial, 
to a healthy skin they are harmful. Powders act 
by absorbing perspiration and other liquid material 
of the surface, and unless excessive they have not 
the failing of ointments in damming back secretions, 
but they rapidly become sodden and proportionately 
useless. In addition to sopping up fluid, a fikn of 
powder will relieve the skin of irritation, contract 
the vessels, and cool it. Carbonate of magnesia is 
one of the best simple dusting powders in virtue of the 
large amount (five and a half times its own weight) of 
water it absorbs ; oxide of zinc takes up only a quarter 
of this quantity. But orris and other vegetable 
powders having no chemical action are safer. Pastes 
are mixtures of oily materials and powders, and have 
action accordingly ; their characteristic is the large 
amount of powder they contain. Pomades usually 
contain coca butter. Glycerine is one of the 
commonest and at the same time the most mistaken 
application to the skin ; many skins it irritates, 
while others, from which it undoubtedly draws water, 
suffer afterwards from the extraction of so much 
fluid ; undiluted it should never be used. 

Paints, dignified by whatever name (of which pure 
rouge is the best), varnishes, enamels, and the rest 
require only the mention of condemnation. Rouge, 
however, is being supplanted by the ultra-refinement 
of the deposition of coloured particles within the skin 
by means of the electric battery. This form of 
tattooing — for that is what it amounts to — will 
certainly, under antiseptic precautions, do no harm 
if the proper materials are used ; though the ad- 



THE SKIN 75 

vantage of a perpetual blush upon the skin in 
all circumstances would seem to be questionable. 
Lead-poisoning has been known in connection with 
facial paints. 

Arsenic is credited with the production of the 
wonderful complexions of the Styrians, and they are 
said to consume even two or three grains daily, one 
grain being an ordinary lethal dose. Small medicinal 
doses of arsenic are excellent as a tonic and doubly 
so, therefore, to the skin. 

Sunburn caused by the chemical rays of light, and 
freckles, are usually amenable to simple treatment 
like that of weak organic acids such as are contained 
in buttermilk or watered lemon- juice, or to borax, 
etc., etc. Broad-brimmed hats and parasols have 
been designed to obviate the necessity for such 
cures. Cold creams have here a distinct sphere of 
importance. 

Acne spots or pimples arise from a preliminary 
* blackhead,' meaning a sebaceous gland blocked 
with oily material and dirt, in which necessarily 
bacilli find an excellent nidus. Their special occiu:- 
rence at puberty shows needs of greater cleanUness 
at this period of increased metabolism. 

The elimination of warts is simple : a splinter of 
wood or match dipped in pure nitric acid and pressed 
well in usually suffices with one application ; if 
carbolic acid is used it requires several repetitions. 
An older method consisted in ' stranghng ' the ex- 
crescence by a silken thread tied tightly round its 
site of attachment to the skin, and so left tied till 
withering occurred. 

Moles require more careful attention, and should on 



76 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

no account be irritated by maltreatment. If there 
are hairs rooted therein it is best to dispose of the 
hairs first by electrolysis and then to attack the mole 
itself by the same agency. Superfluous hairs any- 
where are also best removed by electrolysis, which, 
if done by a skilful operator, causes neither pain nor 
scarring. 

The * double chin,' points to a want of exercise of 
the muscles ; firm massage will remove the super- 
fluous fat and generally fulfil the necessary con- 
ditions better than strapping, though this is not alto- 
gether ineffective. The existence of any such obesity 
of the face indicates, however, that the whole mode 
of life and diet requires examination. 

Occasionally it is desired to remove a dusky dis- 
coloration of the skin of the neck or shoulders. 
Peroxide of hydrogen in a five or ten per cent, 
watery solution allowed to remain in contact with the 
skin during the night is frequently sufficient. It is 
not to be forgotten that peroxide of hydrogen is a 
powerful bleaching agent and a destroyer of proto- 
plasm, from the too frequent or careless use of which 
a skin may be considerably damaged. 

The lip is a favourite site for a form of cancer, and 
the predisposing cause to such cancer is irritation. 
Such irritation may be supplied in the case of the 
cigarette smoker by adhesion of the paper of the 
cigarette, necessitating a continual stripping of this, 
with possibly some of the membrane of the lip along 
with it. Pipe smokers must observe that there is 
no sharp edge on their favourite pipe for the same 
reason. 



CHAPTER VII 

THE HAIR 

THE police courts, poor-houses, and rivers afford 
us doleful testimony of the importance that 
is ascribed in this age to the possession by men of hair 
from which the natural pigment has not departed. 

Hair pigments, whether black, brown, golden, red 
or any other tint, give no indication of virility by its 
special colour, and shows little loss of such virility 
by its departure. Surely we are past the stage of 
those ancient personages who beUeved that strength 
lay in the hair ! I have not yet heard that men 
have been refused situations on account of their 
abdominal proturbance, yet this latter indicates a 
sufficiently grave condition of malassimilation and 
fatty infiltration, which is pronouncedly pathological. 

Hair upon the head or the face of men is a vestige 
of a structure that has had important values in the 
past, but which is nearly useless, save for aesthetic 
purposes, in our climate in the present. Nature has 
her own way with such survival-structures, and grey- 
ness and baldness indicate the finger pressure by 
which she is gradually eliminating hair. Probably 
we become greyer earlier than used to be the case ; 
probably also we are becoming balder ; but these 
things prove nothing regarding fitness, for men are 
living longer. 

77 



78 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

Hair is an effete structure whose place has been 
taken by various articles of attire, with the result 
of freeing bodily energy for more important bodily 
concerns. 

It is known to every one who has glanced over the 
advertising columns of a newspaper that the hair 
foUicle in which the hair is imbedded and grows is 
situated upon a little elevation of the dermis — the 
hair papilla — and that here is the actively growing 
part with its consequent blood and nervous supply. 
Hope for the hair is not lost, no matter how complete 
the baldness, so long as the papilla and the follicle 
are intact. Such baldness that may be recovered 
from is that which occasionally follows fevers, or 
prolonged worry, and that curious form which 
occurs in patches, and is named * alopecia.' It is 
possible that, from the general interference with 
vitality that occurs in debility, there is an inferior 
' ring ' of hair produced at these times, a place in the 
hair, therefore, which will not be able to withstand 
the ordinary wear and tear. Or again, the oppor- 
tunity of weakness thus given the bacilh which 
always inhabit a hair folHcle or its neighbourhood 
may be sufficient for them to destroy the hair — ^just 
as occurs at the * neck ' of teeth — with the result 
again that it must drop. It is very plain that the 
state of the blood or blood-vessels, the condition of 
the nerves, and the activity of any micro-organisms 
present might each or all of them produce the final 
effect. With a still active folhcle the treatment 
necessary to restore the hair suggests itself : attend 
carefully to the cleansing of the skin ; stimulate the 
blood supply by local appHcations such as capsicum, 



THE HAIR 79 

jaborandi, ammonia, or — one of the best — parafl&n, 
and aid this stimulation by judicious rubbing, which 
should be done with the fingers ; at the same time 
attend to the general system. The same applies to 
the falUng out of hair, which occurs in practically 
every one who wears hats or headgear incessantly, 
and also in many who do not. As a curiosity may 
be noted a recipe for baldness dating from the time 
of King Chata : ' A mixture of dogs' paws, dates, and 
asses' hoofs ground up and cooked in oil : rub the 
preparation vigorously into the head.' 

The scalp- covering subserves principally the 
function of warmth, yet we add to it the most un- 
scientifically devised of heat incubators, many of 
which have to be pressed firmly on in order to main- 
tain their position, and which by this pressure 
occlude the arteries which nourish the scalp and hair 
they are intended to protect. Such covering, par- 
ticularly in summer, infringes the fundamental in- 
junction that the head shall be kept cool. It is a 
natural inference that the sex which wears the closest 
fitting head-gear will suffer most as regards its hair. 
We can hardly hope to see men clothed as to their 
head in the desirable minutenesses of bonnets or 
such-like feminine airiness. 

There are, fortunately, certain definite figures 
concerning the hotness of different varieties of men's 
headgear, which were obtained in the summer of 
1906. A doctor in Paris, who wore the ordinary 
top-hat with a thermometer inside it, found in the 
early morning, with a shade temperature of 77°, his 
thermometer registered 90° ; at noon, with the outer 
air at 90°, that hat showed 108° ; while in the even- 



8o THE CARE OF THE BODY 

ing, with a cool breeze and a temperature of 68°, the 
heat inside his hat was indicated by 88°. It is hardly 
astonishing to hear that he read a paper to the 
Academy of Medicine concerning the inevitable ill- 
effects of hat-wearing in summer. Experiments 
were also conducted by a writer in one of the English 
magazines : he used different hats for only, however, 
a quarter of an hour each, and found that, under as 
nearly as possible the same conditions, while a 
Panama gave a temperature of 78° the silk hat 
showed 89° and a motor cap 98°. The moral is evi- 
dent in an overheated scalp with engorged vessels, 
retarded evaporation, and accumulated sweat and 
oily secretion. No more favourable incubator for 
* germs ' could be supplied by a pathological labora- 
tory, and to germs we are beginning to suspect much 
of baldness is due. Clearly the Panama is the most 
desirable of present hats for heat. 

Cold is the other condition against which the head 
may require assistance, and the dry cold which the 
face can resist cannot — with proper training — prove 
dangerous to the scalp. Against rain only a shield 
to divert its passage from the head to the body is 
needed. 

For the preservation of the hair to the longest 
time and in the best condition it is essential to con- 
sider the harmfulness of a custom which began with 
the need of protection from violence, was continued 
by a desire for distinction and ornamentation, which 
has developed a most unbeautiful series of coverings, 
and which has been proved over and over again to 
be deleterious. 

The colour of hair is derived from special granules 



THE HAIR 8i 

of fatty composition contained in the deeper layers 
of the bark and in the pith of the hair. The colour 
scheme is assisted by the distribution of vacuoles in 
the cells of these parts. Complete greyness means 
that aU the fatty material has been absorbed, and 
that the vacuoles have correspondingly increased 
in number. Degrees and kinds of greyness are 
accounted for by the sheen of the hair, its coarseness 
or the thickness of its cortex, the amount of pigment 
still left and the innumerable possibiUties of arrange- 
ment and reflecting powers of the vacuoles. Metch- 
nikoff states that greyness is due to the activity 
of certain devouring cells named by him from their 
powers ' chromophages.' In this phagocytic action 
we may have the explanation of the encroachments of 
old age in all parts of the body, since the natural 
function of these cells is to remove devitalized and 
foreign materials. 

Greyness is an economic disadvantage, as is 
demonstrated by the activities of no less than forty 
thousand patent medicine makers and vendors in 
Great Britain alone. We are all famihar with the 
hair restorers of many fanciful designations. No 
hair stain or dye is harmless, but there are degrees 
of harmfulness, and the most undesirable of all hair 
dyes are those which depend for their action upon the 
metals lead and silver. Vegetable coloration — as 
obtained, for example, from walnut- juice — is the best, 
next comes sulphur. Henna is a plant product. The 
article bearing the name of ' Mrs. Allen's ' contains 
acetate of lead and sulphur, as does the ' Mexican 
Hair Restorer.' Tatcho, in a different category 
altogether, is stated to depend for its action upon 



82 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

purified oil of paraffin. Paraffin is of value to the hair 
by its antiseptic vapour and slight greasiness, but 
ladies require to be particularly warned of the great 
danger of drying their paraffin soaked hair before a fire. 

Professor Imbert, of MontpeUier, has recovered 
the pigment of his hair, which had all completely 
disappeared twelve years ago, and he attributes the 
recovery to the X-rays. He is confirmed in this 
view by Professor Ullman of Vienna. 

Thorough washing of the head need not be done, in 
the case of men, more than once a week : in this is 
not included the cold splash which will accompany 
the use of the morning tub in those who take it. 
Wetting of the hair daily will necessitate the replace- 
ment of the natural oil by a httle briUiantine or pure 
olive oil. The present fashion of wearing the hair 
so short is a natural sequence of the wearing of un- 
necessary hats and caps ; but this shortness, com- 
bined with the ridiculous hardness of the ' miUtary ' 
brushes affected by men, results in a most harmful 
irritation of the scalp, and the same applies to the 
machine brush, which is at best useless to a normal 
head. The vigorous scrubbing with a rough towel is 
a matutinal indulgence which only men possessed of 
a most vigorous growth of hair can afford to indulge 
in, and the same applies to a daily wetting accom- 
panying the cold bath, since the natural oiUness of 
the hair cannot be removed with impunity. The 
stimulation afforded by soft brushing is, on the other 
hand, definitely beneficial. Hard brushing is no 
preventive of dandruff, but wiU merely aggravate the 
condition by undue destruction of the superficial 
skin cells which as noted are ' dead ' ; that dandruff 



THE HAIR 83 

is present at all indicates something amiss with the 
skin of the head. The scalp, like the skin elsewhere, 
secretes in the normal state that amount of oil which 
is necessary to keep it in good condition ; if there is 
any superfluity, it is, or ought to be, absorbed by the 
superficial cells ; if so much remains that it soUdifies 
and forms a dry or solid * scurf,' treatment is required. 
* Dandruff,' or * seborrhoea of the scalp,' is responsible 
for much loss of hair, and also hes at the root of many 
skin affections of an eczematous nature. It is best 
avoided by following the usual rules of health, wear- 
ing suitable headgear or none at all, keeping the scalp 
clean on the same lines as are indicated in the dis- 
cussion of the skin, and by noting that the irritation 
of hard brushes can do no good. The dry shampoo 
with strong ammoniated solutions is excellent as an 
occasional stimulus, and the rubbing in of a httle 
pure brilliantine will do no harm if it is not allowed 
to reach the skin, which in a healthy individual does 
not require it. Singeing is said to prevent the hair 
from ' bleeding,' but it does nothing of the kind, 
for there is no escape of fluid when the hair is cut. 

Dandruff is best removed by a thorough weekly 
lathering with soap spirit till it has been removed. 

In women the question is complicated by the 
length of the hair. Brushing in their case must not 
be done with force, for it produces tangling and tearing 
of the hair. There is, however, nothing to add to 
wdinary hygienic principles. 

Borrowed tresses are much used nowadays. The 
dark-hued tresses come from the south of France, 
and the fairer tints from Germany and Austria 
chiefly, but even here it is exceptional that they 



84 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

should exceed thirty inches in length, and their 
value per lb. above eighteen inches rises in almost 
geometrical ratio for each inch. Transformations, 
wigs, and the other gentler synonyms indicate that 
even comparative hatlessness is insufficient to prevent 
baldness in ladies : it occurs, however, much less 
frequently and to a less extent in their case. Any 
of these ' transformations,' etc., requires attention 
to cleanliness as does the natural hair : hair-pads are 
dirty in the extreme. Hair-pins should be rounded 
at the point and not sharp — they also require cleaning 
or frequent renewal. 

While women benefit by the lightness of their 
headgear, it must be admitted that they themselves 
do their best to neutralise the good effects by the 
insane crimpings and curlings, the forcible twistings 
impacted for eight or nine hours — the whole of their 
sleeping time — and the ' waving ' and other effects, 
for the attainment of which hot irons are necessary. 

Pope wrote : 

* Your locks in paper durance bound ? 
For this with torturing irons wreathed around ? 
For this with fillets strained your tender head ? 
And bravely bore the double loads of lead } ' 

That is treatment which no living tissue is able to 
endure with impunity, and hair is a living tissue. In 
loose coiling by day, and such arrangements which 
these coils permit, with loose plaiting by night, lies the 
proper treatment of what may still be woman's glory. 
If the hair has not that becoming spirality of growth 
which produces curling, it is very much the best to 
leave well alone ; notwithstanding ]\Ictchnikoff's 



THE HAIR 85 

theory that ironing the hair with an ordinary flat-iron 
at a temperature of 140° is destructive to the 
chromophages which cause greyness. 

The comb save for cleanHness had better never 
be used : brushing, of which the comparative slow- 
ness is an advantage, will amply meet all other 
requirements. PedicuH and their kindred justify 
the retention of the small-toothed article ; any other 
is merely a toilet superfluity and actual danger : the 
healthy scalp will not tolerate scraping by a bone, 
horn, ivory, or other hard implement, and the tugging 
to which the comb tempts when kinks or knots are 
encountered cannot but result in the dragging out 
or breaking of the hair. 

Cleanliness is a sine qua non in the case of the hair 
as well as in every other tissue of the body. Like 
every other process which has this end in view, 
brushing is called for every night, and a hard brush 
is not to be used. Care will be stultified if the brush 
itself is not clean. Women, who have a more sen- 
sible habit in coverings and who wear their hair long, 
will find a three-weekly wash the most that is re- 
quired. The water used should be soft, or at least 
boiled, and a comb is unnecessary. Various pre- 
parations are recommended to facihtate washing, 
and possibly the best is a beaten up raw egg mixture, 
but none is essential, superfatted soap is quite 
sufficient. Thorough drying of a woman's hair 
before she coils it or plaits it for bed is an evident 
precaution, if neuralgia, apart from any harm to 
the hair, is to be avoided. 

Moustache or whiskers may or may not be orna- 
mental. They are scarcely useful, and the moustache 



86 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

is liable to food and other contamination. The 
waxed moustache, though possibly it was not 
designed with this end in view, nor even for the 
purpose which the lady in Kipling's ' With any 
Amazement ' found so laudable, has the advantage 
of removing these hairs from the area of eating 
operations. A beard will protect the important 
facial and inferior dental nerves, and also, to some 
extent, the throat. Apart from this possession of 
these appendages must be justified by extreme 
cleanliness. It is very certain that the man who 
shaves cannot hope to maintain the pristine softness 
of his facial skin nor the tints of youth. There are 
risks in submitting to be shaved by the professional 
barber, for any carelessness on his part in carrying 
out the strictest cleanliness may lead to the spread of 
* barber's itch ' or * rash,' a skin infection due to 
inoculation of the hair follicles with a fungus carried 
from person to person by dirty shaving implements. 
Other hairs there are, which are admittedly 
superfluous, the commonest being the hirsute 
junction between the eye-brows, and, in brunettes 
especially, an occasional incipient moustache. 
Superficial destruction of such encumbrances is of 
course of merely temporary avail, so that the de- 
structive action of such pastes as sulphide of barium 
seldom satisfies. The action of a drug Uke acetate 
of thallium, while it undoubtedly removes the hair 
in its entirety, is quite liable to leave the unfortunate 
user devoid of every hair of the body. In electrolysis 
is a slow but an absolutely certain cure when the 
treatment is carried out by a trained and skilful 
operator. 



CHAPTER VIII 

THE TEETH 

WHILE man no longer requires a mechanism of 
the strength and sharpness necessary to tear 
food from the living animal, and as httle the crunch- 
ing ability of gorilla or ruminant, it is still necessary 
for him to observe that every creature of his order 
receives from nature two complete and perfect sets 
of teeth, and that only by the satisfactory preserva- 
tion of these instruments can he hope to preserve a 
healthy digestion and with a wholesome sense of 
well-being. Bad teeth are a prolific source of illness 
and disease. Dr. Savill has held it responsible for 
the spread of neurasthenia in modem Ufe. 

Dental caries is the technical name for bad teeth ; 
it is the condition responsible for that horrible fcetor 
of the breath which can only be compared with the 
emanations from faulty drains. 

Apart from the odour, the absorption of the poisons 
from biUions of flourishing bacilU will inevitably 
predispose to defective digestion from which, by 
reason of imperfect mastication, such people are also 
bound to suffer. 

Mr. Chance dated the beginnings of dental troubles 
as far back as intra-uterine life, but we are compelled 
to begin our investigations with the epoch of ordinary 
birth, a period which is itself considerably in advance 

87 



88 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

of the time at which the average parent considers the 
child's teeth. 

In the new-born infant the bones of the palate and 
jaws are soft, flexible, and incompletely united, and 
extremely susceptible to pressure ; deep in these soft 
tissues are the germs from which the future teeth 
develop. In a normal child the first tooth, usually 
one of the front cutting teeth (incisor) of the lower jaw, 
appears, about the sixth month ; but, as the * cutting ' 
is only the culmination of a lengthy development, it is 
evident why the teeth should be cared for before this 
event. In hand-fed children the first object to be put 
into the infant's mouth — if it is not a ' dummy ' — is 
the teat of its feeding-bottle, and this teat corresponds 
neither in size, shape, nor resilience to the teat of the 
mother's breast ; nor is the method by which the 
milk is obtained similar. The milk almost runs from 
the breast, and the amount of suction required is 
exceedingly slight. On the other hand, the force 
required to draw milk through the teat of a bottle is 
considerable. It will be found that the force needed 
to empty an ordinary ' feed ' is quite sufficient to 
make the jaws of any adult ache. Perhaps it is 
imagined that the infant is specially endowed with 
the faculty of suction. But this is not true. What 
is true is that the child has to suck or die. 

A child at the breast obtains its nourishment by a 
simple vertical movement of its lower jaw ; a child 
on the bottle has to pull vigorously with indrawn 
cheeks. The position of the tongue is also different 
in the artificial feeding, so it is evident that there must 
be pressure upwards into the palate inside the mouth 
from the tongue and teat which will tend to arch 



THE TEETH 89 

the palate, while the pressure of the air on the cheeks, 
transmitted to the upper jaw, will bend the alveolar 
processes towards the middle line, and so increase 
the deformity. [Dr. Hedley was able to show casts 
of all the stages of the process.] The pressure up- 
wards, too, in the middle line would naturally throw 
forward and otherwise alter the incisor teeth, and 
to this action is possibly due the opinion entertained, 
or at one time professed, by various continental 
friends that all Englishwomen had prominent jutting 
front teeth ! The developing teeth will be irritated, 
unequally stimulated, and become consequently 
uneven, while the developing jaw will become de- 
formed and cramped. 

What has been written of the teat applies verbatim 
to the comforter. 

The remedy is obvious in default of a satisfactory 
working model of the human breast or of a readily 
flowing bottle : the child should be fed from spoon 
or pap-bowl till it is old enough to drink from a 
feeding-cup. 

Teething should be painless, but hand-feeding is so 
conunon that it is hardly surprising to hear that pain 
and distress is an almost expected accompaniment. 
The truth is that as a result of the use of the rubber 
teat or comforter the gums of most of the unfortun- 
ate infants are in a condition of chronic irritation : 
the points at which teeth emerge are situations of 
rapid absorptive processes, and peculiarly open to 
bacterial invasion ; the micro-organisms are on the 
spot, so acute inflammation readily ensues. 

The relief in bad cases by lancing means the de- 
struction of the delicate membrane of Nasmyth, 



90 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

which covers tjie enamel of the crown ; so that the 
edge of the tooth when it is cut shows irregularities, 
which are in themselves ugly, and dangerous because 
they indicate that the structure of the tooth is 
defective. 

When it comes to be a choice — as occasionally 
happens — between lancing and convulsions, then the 
former must be adopted, but not before a dose or 
two of Grey powders or bromide has been tried. 
Trouble with teething is clear proof that the child 
is not as it ought to be. 

The first set or ' milk teeth ' are all erupted within 
eighteen months or two years after the first incisor 
has appeared. These teeth must be attended to as 
carefully as the permanent set. Attention should 
begin with the first tooth to appear, and consists in 
wiping the tooth and mouth with a soft rag dipped 
in a weak solution of bicarbonate of soda ; a tea- 
spoonful of the salt dissolved in a tumbler full of 
warm water makes an efficient wash. This should 
be used after each meal, and particularly before 
putting the child to lie, for when the mouth is 
shut and at rest during sleep bacteria grow with 
facility. As soon as the child can understand, it 
should be educated in the use of a tooth-brush. 

Decay in the teeth of a child requires prompt 
attention. The stopping of teeth is of advantage 
as a preventive of toothache and indigestion. Decay 
and too early removal of the milk teeth has harmful 
effects upon the growth of the permanent teeth 
which succeed. 

The dental formula of a child is 2-1-2, meaning that 
in the half of each jaw there are two incisors, one 



THE TEETH 91 

canine, and two molars ; that for a complete per- 
manent set is 2-1-2-3, meaning in the half of each jaw 
two incisors, one canine, two bicuspids, and three 
molars. First of the permanent teeth to appear are 
the first true molars about the sixth year, and last 
are the third molars or wisdom teeth about the eigh- 
teenth year, though in many people these never form, 
frequently from want of room in the cramped and 
deformed jaw. 

The enamel to which teeth owe their beauty is the 
only part which should be visible, and upon the 
enamel depends the life of the tooth, since by its 
stony hardness is protected the softer dentine or 
ivory and the deeper cavity of the tooth, with its 
sensitive and vascular pulp. Enamel is thickest at 
those places where most hardness is required, and 
thins off towards the ' neck ' at the gum ; at this 
neck also is thinnest the bony cement which 
fixes the tooth in the jaw, so that at the gmn will 
be the most vulnerable part. At this point will be 
the attack of micro-organisms deposited by the food. 
Helping to protect the neck is a very delicate ex- 
tension of the mucous membrane of the gum, and it is 
important not to damage it by toothpick or waxed 
thread. 

Enamel contains two per cent, of organic material 
and cannot nourish bacteria. But the bacteria 
growing in the food left in the crevices between the 
teeth, or in the tartar that accumulates about their 
roots, produce acid substances which can dissolve 
away the hardest and best enamel, particularly where 
it is thin, as at the neck of the tooth. When the 
covering enamel is eaten away the bacteria gain entry 



92 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

to the softer dentine, where they can hve and thrive, 
so that decay proceeds with increasing celerity. 

Keep the teeth clear of both food and tartar. The 
latter consists of lime and other salts deposited from 
the food, with mucus and cells from the mouth and a 
considerable number of bacilli — the whole forming a 
firm and extremely obnoxious jelly. To it is due the 
almost stony formation which has occasionally to 
be scaled. While enamel is intact the tooth is safe, 
and the secretions of the mouth are alkaline and 
antagonistic to the lactic and other acids formed by 
bacilli. Hence the force of regular employment 
of alkaline washes and tooth-powders, though it 
would be better to prevent the formation of acids, 
so that antiseptics would seem to be indicated. 
But better still is the prevention of their access 
by cleaning the mouth and teeth every time 
after food has been taken, as well as morning and 
night. 

People who take the trouble outhned above will 
rarely or never need any powerful tooth cleanser, and 
their needs will be fully met by ordinary soap. Not 
every one, however, can bear the lather of soap 
in the mouth, and these may use any good prepara- 
tion of powdered chalk or pumice stone and soap 
powder, perfumed or flavoured. Soap is the main- 
stay of the most satisfactory tooth-powders ; it is 
immaterial what harder powder is used with it so 
long as not hard enough to scratch the enamel, 
though sufficiently abrasive to remove food and 
other particles. 

Tooth-brushes need to be of good quaUty to avoid 
unpleasant deposit of bristles in the mouth, and the 



THE TEETH 93 

face of the brush made so that it may readily pass 
well in between the teeth. The best size is a child's 
brush, for this will pass easily between the back 
teeth and the cheek. The ideal course is for every 
one, including every child after its first tooth is cut, 
to see the dentist once every six months. 

Gold stoppings were used far back in the ten 
thousand years of the era of Egyptian civilization. 
The material of such stoppings, whether of gold or 
oxyphosphate of zinc or the cunning insertion of tiny 
bits of porcelain, is the affair of the dentist. 

It is better to keep one's own teeth than to let them 
require stopping ; it is better to have them stopped 
than to have them extracted. But there are cases 
in which false teeth have to be employed, and these 
teeth also have to be cared for. They need nightly 
removal and keeping in a slightly alkaline solution 
and as careful brushing as their natural predecessors. 
That thin edging of whiteness that forms along plates 
consists of tartar, and where any of the natural teeth 
remain in contact with this edge the * cutting,' in 
of the plate is due to the solvent action of the acid- 
forming bacilli contained in the tartar. 

The relations of the opposing teeth in the two jaws 
to each other is of interest. One upper tooth does 
not oppose only one lower tooth, but is placed so as 
to bite against the halves of two. As a result when 
a tooth is lost, its homologue in the opposite jaw 
does not lose its usefulness, nor will it consequently 
become loose and drop out. Dropping out is a 
tendency in teeth which are not sufficiently employed 
in biting. The toughness of the food of savages it 
is which not only keeps their teeth clean by friction 



94 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

but which strengthens them by the proper stimula- 
tion of their roots. See, therefore, that the children 
have occasional tooth-drill on such materials as apples, 
crisp or hard biscuits, radishes, and so forth, and see 
that the adult maintains the habit. Soft feeding 
is destructive to the teeth. 

Gum-boils, alveolar abscesses, etc., will not trouble 
the reader who keeps his teeth clean. Toothache 
is due to the undue stimulation of dental nerves, 
usually by acid fermentation. The old-fashioned 
loose plugging with soap of a hole in an aching tooth 
is often successful in securing temporary relief in 
that the alkaU of the soap neutralizes the acid in 
the hole. 

The value of mastication is manifold. First, it 
secures a thorough division and tearing up of the food 
particles. Next it secures a good flow of saliva and 
the mixing of the saliva with the food. Lastly, when 
these two are secured the food in the warmth of the 
stomach begins to be digested by the salivary 
ferments even before the gastric juice is secreted. 
The teeth should be given theii full share in assist- 
ing such digestion, and the first food of a meal must 
not be of such a consistency or moistness that their 
province can be ignored. Dry bread that must be 
chewed is the best beginning for a meal ; best for the 
teeth and best because it provokes by its own pro- 
perties the most active and efficient flow of saHva. 
The teeth must be properly exercised. As a side 
issue it may be observed that much less food is 
consumed when careful chewing is enforced. 

Sweet breath is always desirable. What is more 
unpleasant than converse with a person whube breath 



THE TEETH 95 

is evil-smelling. The more vigorous the speech of the 
person the more dreadful is the experience, for with 
each explosive utterance he showers upon us the 
offensive germs that abound in his saliva. No one 
would knowingly spit upon a friend, but unwittingly 
many do this same thing. 




CHAPTER IX 

THE FEET AND HANDS 

IN his autoli^ography Spencer asks, among other 
questions valuable for their suggestiveness, 
' What is the difference between walking and run- 
ning ? ' Apart from the length of the stride, which is 
not a fundamental feature, since the action of running 
may readily be counterfeited and the progression 
made be actually nil, the chief difference lies in the 
muscular agencies employed and in the part of the 
foot that first meets the ground, also in the fact that 
both feet are off the ground simultaneously in 
running. 

In standing, both front and back of the sole bear 
the weight in walking, the heel first receives the 
weight ; and in running, the ball of the foot must 
sustain the early part of the strain. In normal walking 
we use to the full the pendulum-like swing of the legs 
and make the heel the first place of ground contact. 
It is the mechanical swinging movement of natural 
walking with which faults in foot-wear will interfere. 
Walking which brings the front part of the foot 
earliest to the ground involves great muscular effort. 

By far the greater support of the erect body is 
intended to originate at the foot of a vertical hne 
raised from the heel, and the remainder of the human 
foot which forms the supporting arch has the function 



THE FEET 97 

of a flying buttress, whose function is subsidiary, save 
in positions of relaxation or fatigue. 

To preserve the upright position and to have the 
weight supported mainly by the heels requires a well- 
braced muscular body. 

For this reason low-heeled boots are the best : 
the heel and sole of a boot ought to be of nearly the 
same depth. With each thickness added to the heel, 
the line of support of the body is thrown forward. 

The inner edge of boot or shoe ought to be a 
straight line, not an angle with its apex at the side 
of the ball of the great toe. With the angle directed 
as it is in the majority of boots, the deformity caused 
is actually increased by the tendons, so that a com or a 
still more grievous bunion may form which, once well 
started, is almost incurable. Where the narrowness is 
excessive, the foot may be so crushed as to cause the 
toes to overlap, and if the boot is short as well as 
narrow, the second toe will double upon itself in an 
upward direction, with the formation of * hammer ' or 
* trigger ' toe. The longest part of a foot is on the 
line which connects heel and the tip of the second 
toe, so that the point of a shoe — if point there must 
be — would naturally fall on this line. Too tight 
boots may also cause ingrowing toe-nail, a particu- 
larly painful deformity : another factor in pro- 
ducing this is cutting the nails badly. It is probably 
safest to cut the nails square across at the top and 
not to round off the angles. Corns can be accounted 
for by badly fitting boots. 

Chilblains are almost the sole common foot 
defect which is not directly due to boots. Faulty 
circulation, with badly reacting skin and exposure 



L 



98 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

to cold followed by heating before the fire, are at the 
root of this mischief, and they resemble similar 
occurrences upon the hands. Where tight boots 
are partly responsible, these must, of course, be 
remedied. 

Flat foot is a deformity due to the falling in of the 
natural arch of the foot. This arch is made up 
by the bones with their connecting ligaments, and 
special Hgaments of great power cross beneath it. It 
is also maintained in position by the action of tendons 
derived from several powerful muscles of the leg. 
Defects may be caused by want of muscular tone as 
well as by ligamentous failure. The beginnings of 
failure arise from excessive straining of the liga- 
ments by continuous standing. Standing with 
the weight mostly supported by the heel could 
scarcely ever bring it about. Flat foot is of common 
occurrence amongst shop assistants (Mr. H. G. Wells 
has given the symptoms in his story of Kipps). 
Recent legislation which prescribes seats for their 
use will save them from the continuous strain. 
Thicker boots, with a better support to all parts of the 
foot, cold bathing of the feet, stimulating liniments, 
tiptoe exercises, and dancing are useful preventives. 
In bad cases there is frequently required a sup- 
porting arch in the boot. This may be made of cork 
or a steel spring, or it can be quite well obtained 
by the thickness of the leather forming the waist of 
the boot — at the sides as well as underneath. Good 
boots can only be made to measure ; and measuring 
does not mean the use of the rule or tape alone. Of 
what avail to note the length of a foot from heel to 
toe, and to add to this the width of the foot at even 



THE FEET 99 

three different points ? That gives no indication 
of thickness. The simplest, £ind undoubtedly the 
best, course would be to take a plaster cast of each 
foot, and upon such cast to build each boot. Such 
a cast would prevent a large amount of very real 
suffering. 

The importance of keeping the feet warm is a 
commonplace of knowledge, but too hot, unventilated 
footwear is at once made evident by * sweaty feet/ 
The polite term is the medical one of ' Hyperidrosis,' 
or in a still more pronounced olfactory stage * Bro- 
midrosis.' The bracing effects of daily cold water 
combined with the presence of a definitely absorbent 
material next the skin is usually sufficient ; in special 
cases absorbent powder must be added, together with 
a daily bath of some such substance as weak formalin. 

Blistering of the feet may sound a small matter, 
but it is sufficient to incapacitate an otherwise able- 
bodied soldier. There are certain small precautions 
which may help to keep the feet sound during a 
march, till the necessary hardening has occurred. 
The dictum regarding alcohol being of more use to 
the feet than the head well exemplifies this, for the 
astringent and hardening power of whisky on the 
skin is well known. Soaping the socks and boots is 
another time-worn device, while powder applied to 
the threatened areas is also valuable. The latter is 
useful also to stave off some of the pain of corns. 
Corns are a growth downward at special points of 
the homy material of the skin which invades the 
softer structures, and, reaching nerves, presses upon 
them, causing pain. Corns themselves, soft or hard, 
are caused by intermittent pressure and are best 



TOO THE CARE OF THE BODY 

removed by a ten per cent, solution of salicylic acid 
applied wet or painted on with collodion, and after 
one or more daily applications for the necessary 
softening to be accomplished, the work is consum- 
mated by the ordinary ' cutting.' Protection to a 
painful com may well be afforded by a coating of 
absorbent powder or by a ring of soft felt with its 
orifice over the painful spot, to take off the irritating 
pressure of the boots. Corns are occasionally the 
starting-point of that form of cancer known as 
epithelioma, and even of senile gangrene in the 
elderly. 

The ventilation of the feet is complicated by the 
prime necessity for attention to warmth, and by the 
universality of leather in bootmaking : the sandal, un- 
fortunately, is not suited to the exigencies of the 
English climate, but if the idea be once accepted 
that leather is, after all, not a sine qua non for cover- 
ing the feet, it should not be difficult to discover 
a material which can at the same time maintain 
warmth, throw off water, and yet allow of ventilation. 
An artifice of the nature of feathers or fur in the 
animal world would seem to be suggested, and there 
is httle doubt that a suitable material would soon 
appear if the present unworthy and childish horror 
of wearing boots ' too big ' were to disappear. 
Shoes at present are preferable on the score of 
ventilation, and also in some instances for making 
the ankle depend upon its own capabiHties. Laced 
boots are no more necessary to most of us than are 
corsets. Where strain must be excessive, as in 
mountaineering or skating, there is nothing to be 
said against boots, or where protection against cold, 



THE HANDS loi 

wet, or such impedimenta as jmigle or brushwood 
is required; but for most occupations and even 
games the ankle should be permitted to do its own 
work. 

The Hands 

As the special seat of delicate tactile impressions, 
the finger-tips will require particular attention in the 
way of warmth, since the speed of nerve impulses 
diminishes definitely when the nerves transmitting 
them are ' cold,* and the delicate muscles of the 
fingers and hand will be correspondingly sluggish. 

Cold hands, while arising partly from their distance 
from the central supply of fully oxygenated blood, 
are due chiefly to special conditions in the hands 
themselves. One of these suggests itself at once, 
viz. the exposure and amount of passive movement 
to which they are subjected ; but a very definite 
contributory is the large amount of joint and bony 
areas which are included in the region of the hand. 
In such areas active metabolism is at a considerably 
lower level than in muscles, and so it arises that 
joints are to a large extent dependent for heat upon 
their surroundings. Here is one reason why joints 
are specially liable to chills and diseases, and also one 
refutation of that garb which would leave children 
with their knees bare. The commonest sequel of 
' joint colds ' is rheumatism. Exercise is the best 
corrective, with gloves as a natural accessory to 
obviate the effects of exposure. 

Gloves designed for purposes of warmth should 
possess the internal absorptive layer which is else- 
where insisted upon as the healthiest contact for 




102 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

the skin. There are few people so fortunate that 
they can afford to discard a pan: of gloves after a 
few days* wear, and most choose them for durabiUty. 
That being so, there is no other way of ensuring 
even moderate cleanliness than by using washable 
materials. 

For warm weather the impervious hand-covering 
that is usually worn is undesirable in every way, for 
either ventilation, actual cleanliness, or comfort. 
Such material, then, as leather or kid in its various 
forms, suede, reindeer, and so on, are naturally 
excluded, and the most sensible fabric will be of fine- 
meshed construction, which can now be made in 
silk or wool as much as in cotton. Ordinary im- 
pervious silk is only a degree less undesirable than 
kid. 

For unpleasantly clammy hands hot water is more 
efficacious than cold, since the effect in contracting 
vessels is much more lasting with the former, a fact 
taken advantage of by the surgeon in restricting 
haemorrhage. For actual hyperidrosis, or sweating 
between the fingers, astringent washes, such as a 
two per cent, solution of formalin, and bland dusting 
powder are needed. 

Effective drying of the hands after every washing 
is always to be insisted upon ; harsh skin is Hkely to 
be the penalty in even warm weather, and in cold 
chapped hands and chilblains are the penalties. 

Freckles (little pigmented spots) are the natural 
attempt on the part of the skin to screen and prevent 
harm from sunhght to underlying structures ; their 
prevention will suggest itself in gloves or other means 
of shading. A hint may be taken from the colour 



THE HANDS 103 

of the freckles as to the tint of parasol ; and accord- 
ingly the brownish reds and yellows are found to be 
most valuable in shading from the sun. 

Cleanliness of the hands should have special re- 
ference to meals, and in such cleanliness the nails 
must be most scrupulously included. The nail is 
formed of very much the same material as the hair. 
It has long been known that severe illness can cause 
an interruption of the nail growth which will appear 
upon it as a transverse furrow. Longitudinal groov- 
ing suggests a gouty or rheumatic diathesis, but the 
white opacities occasionally apparent are of the same 
nature as the greyness of hair, being due to vacuoles 
in the horny cells. The much-desired lunula, the 
manifestation of which counts for so much to the 
dilettante, indicates the growing part from which 
much of the nail is formed ; but share also is taken 
in growth in the direction of thickness and width by 
the nail folds, which should not therefore be imduly 
maltreated in the nail toilette. 



CHAPTER X 

LIGHT AND OZONE 

WISE old Sir Isaac Newton with his crystal 
prism was the first who began to understand 
the sources of our energy through light. He analysed 
it into those colours so famiUar in the miracle of the 
rainbow. 

Light is necessary to a full life, but recently it has 
been found that in light a cure for threatened life 
can be obtained. Finsen picked out the blue from 
the spectrum ; he sent it through his cooled and 
complex prisms to attack one of the foulest diseases 
that ever gnawed the human front. That was the 
cure of lupus, the logical sequence of an observation 
that the germs of consumption were killed by sun- 
light in four minutes. This action of sunlight upon 
the micro-organism of lupus and phthisis is typical 
of what sunlight will do for humanity if man himself 
will not interfere with its work. 

In the germicidal power of day is sufficient appeal 
to man that he should not shun the light. 

The experiments of Cla57ton with beans grown in 
sunlight and in shade show with extraordinary force 
the effect upon not only the individual but upon 
posterity. The shaded beans and pods when 
gathered were less than a third of the weight of those 
grown with no protection from the sun. From the 

104 



LIGHT AND OZONE 105 

seed of these next year, the offspring of the shaded 
weighed only two-thirds of the others, notwith- 
standing that all were being grown in similar con- 
ditions and in sunhght. In the fourth year from the 
experiment theplants derivedfrom the shady ancestry, 
though they produced flowers, failed to produce fruit 
— that is to say there was a failure to perpetuate, 
and, consequently, an extinction, caused by the de- 
privation of sunlight from the one generation. That 
is a lesson which is easily read. 

M. Flammarion enclosed plants of the same species, 
age, and size in separate boxes of blue, red, and 
ordinary glass and examined them at the end of 
three months. Those plants completely bathed in 
blue light had not grown at all ; those in the ordinary 
glass subjected to simple daylight had grown very 
considerably, but the red box had suited its occupants 
so well that they had increased fifteen times. Ordin- 
ary dayhght, of course, contains red, blue, and green 
rays, and the red, as shown, is very favourable to 
growth, but the blue in it, as suggested by the blue 
box, had retarded its action. 

It should be stated that, though the spectnmi 
obtained from sunlight by means of a crystal prism 
or in a rainbow contains practically an octave of 
colour, these may all be resolved into the primaries 
of red, blue, and green. The last perceptible violet 
tint of the spectrum represents a vibration speed of 
twice the number of the first visible red. This is 
the only octave of the sun's rays that the human 
eye is trained to register, but it as Httle represents all 
the rays derived from the sun as the historical life 
of man represents the story of the world. These 



io6 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

rays travel at a pace that would take them more than 
seven times round the world in a second, and the 
point from which they emerge is more than ninety 
millions of miles away from us. 

Beyond the violet lie the powerful chemical or 
actinic rays, and far beyond them still the wonderful 
X-rays, while in the depths below the red quiver the 
cause of heat. 

The blue and ultraviolet rays account for the most 
vigorous chemical action, as shown by freckles, 
sunburn, and the death of bacteria ; but the range 
of action of these is very superficial, being, in fact, 
confined to the skin, since they are not able to 
penetrate blood, however near to the surface. The 
other rays, increasing in length towards the red end, 
are less potent but have a greater range, though even 
they cannot be proved to penetrate any great depth 
in the body. The fact remains that complete sun- 
baths of naked patients, with due precautions 
against exposure, such as are practised at Veldes in 
Austria, have been proved to be definitely beneficial. 

Turn a slum child into the country for a day, and 
at the end of the golden day the tinge of red on the 
sallow cheek is due to more than a mere sunburn. 
The child's blood is actually redder and there is more 
of it. That has been proved by the vicarious testi- 
mony of sundry unfortunate rabbits. 

The investigations of Platen prove the invigorating 
power of sun rays. He found that young dogs with 
eyes shielded took up sixteen per cent, less oxygen 
than when their eyes were free. As a converse to 
this, it is now clear why the instinct of the badly 
wounded is to creep away from the light, for, in 



LIGHT AND OZONE 107 

addition to hiding from possible foes, the available 
store of energy is less rapidly reduced in the dark- 
ness, and life so prolonged to the uttermost. 

For practical purposes it is immaterial whether 
sunshine kills the germs of consumption by pene- 
trative action or by the stimulation it affords to the 
energy of the body. The immense gain in the sense 
of well-being caused by a proper amount of sunlight 
has been experienced by all. Arctic explorers have 
described the effect of the first view of the sun as a 
veritable resurrection, and to them the ancient sun- 
worship becomes more than inteUigible. 

On this matter of the energy-stimulating power of 
light rays, Nordau in his Degeneration suggests 
that there is a pecuUar compelling force in certain 
tints of red, and that the appeal in this colour is to 
certain primary instincts which have their outlet in 
violence. He instances as of this ' d5mamogenous ' 
nature the red of the soldier's coat of a passing day, 
which incites the spectator towards the ' glorious ' 
idea of killing his neighbour. In the same connection 
is the peculiar effect of a red rag on a bull ; the 
* seeing red ' of men blind with rage ; and the colour 
of blood itself, which, while it sickens those of one 
nervous temperament with horror, has a bestial 
influence in inspiring ferocity in others. 

The promoter of energy of all kinds, and the de- 
stroyer of forms of life inimical to man must gain 
free admission to our homes. This means that there 
shall be the greatest possible window space, and a 
lesser stultifying of it, when provided, by the use of 
window-blinds and curtains. It also means getting 
into the fresh air at every opportunity. 



io8 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

No electric baths or ozone baths will replace, at 
whatever expense, that which is at our call for 
nothing. Nature seems to have made her one great 
mistake in storing up the energy of bygone days of 
blinding sunshine in the coal seams of to-day, so that 
now by our coal fires and their resultant fogs the light 
of the past is actually able to obscure the Hght of the 
present. Mists we cannot as yet avoid ; fogs, how- 
ever, are preventible, and why are they not pre- 
vented ? The reply is precisely the reply to the same 
question regarding consumption. It is due to man's 
folly. The prevention of fogs is principally a matter 
of efi&cient fuel consumption, and grates and furnaces 
to this end are quite attainable. 

There are still rows of houses built so that the sun 
cannot reach the ground between them, houses with 
deficient window area, and houses with the worst 
chosen frontage as regards the sun. And this is so 
much the worse seeing that so many people must 
needs be indoors at their work. 

Light and life being both ethereal ripples, it is 
not strange that there should be action and inter- 
action between the crowding arrivals at the body 
from the sun and those already pla5^ng their part in 
the meshes of the body, for, Hke all energy, these 
require renewal. By the renewal of this energy is 
obtained the fuller bound of the pulse and a deepen- 
ing hue of the blood, and on these are readily built a 
truer bodily welfare. We are children of the sun ; 
and, while there is no effective worship possible to 
such modems as ourselves, there is yet an effective 
punishment of those who fail to do the necessary 
honour. 



LIGHT AND OZONE 109 



Ozone Baths 



By some people sunlight and * ozone ' are sup- 
posed to be of the same class and of a similar im- 
portance ; so we find ' ozone baths ' at the more 
famous health resorts. Ozone is credited with pro- 
ducing that health which best flourishes at the sea- 
side, in the mountains, and such other places, and the 
inference is promptly drawn that if a small quantity 
of a substance is good there must necessarily be more 
virtue in a greater amount. 

Air is excellent as we obtain it in nature ; it is by 
no means excellent to inhale it at twice the atmo- 
spheric pressure — as any caisson worker or diver 
will assure you. Nor is it any advantage to have the 
oxygen, which forms one-fifth of the atmosphere, in 
much greater quantity than this ; far less to be com- 
pelled to exist in pure oxygen, which is toxic. Ozone, 
however (unlike air or oxygen), is valueless to the 
body in any quantity whatever. 

From its very paucity ozone can be of httle use ; 
but, on account of its possessing great oxidizing 
power, it can never pass beyond the mucous surfaces 
of the lung tubes, even should it reach them. The 
fact that ozone is in the air, however, proves that there 
is httle deleterious matter of organic nature, and its 
presence is of value to that extent. Ozone, if it has 
any power of affecting respiration at all, does so 
indirectly and in the same fashion as the pleasing 
odours of flowers. When either of these is present the 
stimulation of various nerves makes one desirous of 
inhahng the cause of the scent more deeply, and, con- 



no THE CARE OF THE BODY 

sequently, deeper breaths of air with its contained 
oxygen are occasioned. Here is one reason, at least, 
why a favourite site for sanatoria is in the vicinity of 
pine forests. It is interesting to observe that the 
Grassois, who make the chief part of the world's 
natural perfumes, have an average Ufe of over seventy 
years. 



CHAPTER XI 

THE EYES 

IF the eye notified its own ailments as readily as 
might be expected, Hfe would be much simpler. 
For there is no closer interdependence than that exist- 
ing between fitness and the state of the eyesight. 

Jaundice usually registers its presence by the 
typical yellow tint of the mucous membrane covering 
the under lid and the proximate part of the white 
of the eye. Anaemia may be as readily seen. In 
Bright's disease frequently the first warning comes 
from the pufiiness of the fids in the morning ; and for 
centuries the pearly white or blue of the eye of the 
consumptive patient has been remarkable. There are 
diseases in which the diagnosis may be dependent 
upon what is found after examination of the interior 
of the eye and retina. The discovery of chronic 
kidney trouble is often first made by the oculist, 
while the fiat as to such grave conditions as general 
paralysis, locomotor ataxia, and general tuberculosis 
is sometimes obtainable only from what the eye re- 
veals. That apoplexy, or opium and belladonna 
poisonings, may be shown in a mere glimpse of the 
pupils is a commonplace of knowledge. The greatest 
curse of modern visual Hfe, astigmatism, gives no ex- 
ternal evidence of its presence, however, nor could one 
predict in the majority of cases that any given person 
from his appearance must be long or short-sighted. 

Ill 



112 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

Yet these defects are of as great importance as anaemia 
or jaundice, which are conspicuous to every one. 

The commonest result of an imcared-for eye 
strain is derangement of the digestion, with 
stomach and Uver troubles. The writer knows this 
to his cost, since for years he underwent intervals of 
torture from atrocious sick headaches, which cleared 
up completely when proper spectacles had been 
prescribed. The megrims, gouty headaches, and so 
on are phrases which conceal ignorance, and the eyes 
should always be suspect in doubtful cases. 

Many a bright child is being spurred beyond the 
capacity of its eyesight, with resultant * biliousness,' 
moodiness, and lethargy, or with unaccountable out- 
bursts of temper exacted from it by the strain. It is 
not suggested that the eyes account for every case 
of ' unfitness,' but the part played by them in this 
is a very large one. The facts are before us as to the 
large proportion of the population that is so afflicted. 

At the meeting of the British Medical Associa- 
tion in Toronto, 1906, the following statements were 
made. Of six hundred thousand children examined 
in London, ten per cent, were found to have less 
than one- third of normal vision. In Germany Cohn 
finds that twenty-two per cent, of the lower classes 
are short-sighted or myopic, while fifty-eight per cent, 
of the upper classes are similarly afflicted. To turn 
to a third country, it is found that while the same 
conditions exist generally throughout America, in 
one school in Philadelphia two-thirds of the children 
had defective vision. 

A fact that should be again emphasized is the in- 
frequency with which the defect is suspected by 



THE EYES 113 

either the sufferer or his relatives. So here is valid 
argument for the great value of the early school 
inspection of all children's eyes, that the aid of 
glasses may be invoked at once. 

The demand made upon it by the very acute 
modem development of town life is severe. Nature 
built an eye primarily for distant vision : man has 
required that it should be used almost exclusively 
for objects at a range of inches. Thence the * dis- 
harmony ' and the increase of need of artificial aids. 

The eye is so complex that failure is not surprising. 
Two translucent solid bodies, the cornea and lens, 
with two transparent chambers filled with fluid or 
semi-fluid, are the media through which hght must 
pass before the sensitive retina is reached. Nine 
muscles with their nerves concern themselves with 
the direction and amount of the light which is to be 
admitted. An optic nerve takes up the message and 
by devious paths transmits this to both sides of the 
brain. Multiply this statement by two, since most 
of us are fortunately binocular, and we begin to 
understand that since failure in any single part will 
cause mischief there are here considerable possibiUties. 
Add the necessary pigment for the iris and the 
elaborate additional precautions for guarding the 
eye — which exist in every one and any lapse in which 
is Hable to cause trouble — eyebrows, lashes, lids, 
glands, canals, and the complication begins almost 
to simulate confusion. Defect anywhere may evi- 
dently lead to chaos. In our own day, the universal 
spread of the printed page has made the most minute 
attention compulsory. This is, in short, an age of 
black and white at the shortest possible range. The 



114 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

test of modern fitness is the ability to use black marks 
on a white ground, either by reading or writing them. 
Of the muscles concerned in the more minute move- 
ments of the eye machinery, one alone has to bear 
the strain of accommodation or focusing. It is by 
means of this ciliary muscle that the amount of con- 
vexity of the lens is altered so that the image focused 
shall fall always at the same distance, on the retina, 
though the rays from the object gazed at be parallel, 
as in the case of a distant object, or widely divergent, 
as occurs when anj^hing near at hand is perceived. 
The muscle of accommodation is accompanied in its 
action by contractions and dilatations of the pupil, 
in order that images may be the clearest possible 
by the cutting off or letting in of extra light, but most 
of the muscular work that has to be done in effecting 
clear vision is done by it. Upon it is thrown also the 
effort to correct any defects of the media through 
which the light reaches the back of the eye, by en- 
deavours to adapt the shape of the lens to securing 
a regular retinal image. This muscle is always in 
action through the waking hours, a statement which 
applies to no other muscle of the body — not excepting 
the heart, for the heart has rest intervals. Incessant 
contraction of muscle is good for neither it, the sensi- 
tive nerves it contains, the brain which registers its 
incessant messages, nor the organism possessing the 
brain. In the young human being, with its softer 
tisues, it is clear that a constantly acting force is 
bound to cause deflections by the giving way of the 
materials acted upon and the expectation that the 
eye of the young will not stand this strain, a deduction 
borne out by facts. 



THE EYES 115 

To the excessive work thrown upon the eye in 
reading and near work must be added the fatigue 
induced by the spread of artificial illumination. 
There are naked Hghts everywhere — in the streets, 
in the theatres, in the churches, in our homes. A 
naked light is a bad light, whether taper, candle, gas, 
or electricity. All hght should be diffuse. Add to 
faulty artificial lighting the glitter of jewels, orders, 
table crystal, mirrors, and silver, and the ' society 
headache ' becomes explicable. 

The value of restful colour schemes is now being 
perceived and acted upon in the home as well as in 
the country. The tint of a billiard table is not the 
least of its advantages. From one book to another 
is a very moderate relief ; from a book to the garden 
or country is admirable. Golf for even the half- 
blind is the healthiest of pastimes, cricket being less 
excellent, as it demands more time of the eye to be 
spent on the ball. 

Here, perhaps, is a not inappropriate place to 
consider the effect of smoking upon the eyesight. 

Medical men are well aware that there is such a 
thing as tobacco blindness, and that it is due to a 
gradual heaping up in the body of the products from 
tobacco. The retina and optic nerve are the seat of 
the mischief. In the majority of cases the condition 
is curable by the complete cessation of smoking. Such 
blindness is due to careless excess in the quantity, in the 
strength of the tobacco used. Smoking on an empty 
stomach is particularly bad ; and chewing is an outrage. 

The care of the eyes should begin at the birth of 
the child. Proper cleansing of the eyes then by the 
doctor may save the eyes from a disastrous inflamma- 



ii6 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

tion, one indeed that accounts for most of the blind- 
ness in children. 

The eyesight should always be examined when the 
child is first sent to school, whether in its own nursery, 
kindergarten, or elsewhere. 

The difference from year to year in a defective eye is 
very frequently worth correcting, whether of short or 
long sight, or astigmatism. And unless there is actual 
pain or burning in the eyes themselves there will be no 
suggestion, possibly not even headache, to direct atten- 
tion to the source of a child's troubles. Puberty, adoles- 
cence, and the climacteric are times of special strain. 

Nearly every one at forty-five begins to need con- 
vex lenses for reading, and this need ascends in a 
steady progression. At forty-five the lens is much 
less convex and translucent than at infancy. 

Foreign bodies not infrequently get into the eye, 
dirt, grit, coal dust, and such Hke. It is therefore 
a desirable accompUshment to be able to evert the 
upper lid, since the foreign bodies are usually found 
clinging to its under surface. Where the irritation' 
from any such cause is very intense it is always worth 
remembering that a single drop of castor oil will give 
considerable relief. For lime, alkali, or in fact any 
caustic which has reached the eye, this oil should be 
immediately used, or in its absence ordinary oHve oil. 

Some workmen are extraordinarily expert in re- 
moving * fire ' from the eye with a penknife, but for 
those who have not nerve for this proceeding, it 
may be remembered that the quaint method practised 
by our grandmothers of getting a friend to lick the 
surface of the eye is occasionally efiicacious and is 
absolutely painless. 



CHAPTER XII 

THE EARS 

WE have ample reason to believe that threaten- 
ing sounds were heard upon the earth far in 
advance of sounds of invitation or friendship, and 
the * fittest ' in early times would be those who were 
able to hear the threatening advance of foes. 

To respond to the mere crudities of menace a very 
primitive mechanism would suffice, and possibly the 
first ' hearing ' vibrations were recorded by a very 
widely distributed sensitive apparatus. There gradu- 
ally developed powers to register and understand, till 
finally there differentiated the human ear with a 
lesser power of noting intensities but an extraordinary 
ability to analyse complexes of sound. 

As a result of the distracting sounds of civilization, 
it is certain that attention is more difficult to con- 
centrate, that the brain in consequence cannot but 
suffer. Dr. Hyslop states that in early insanity 
auditory perversions are the most common, the first 
to appear and the longest to persist. 

It is not possible to enumerate the sources of noise 
which may do harm. Motor-car and cycle with 
maddening hoot or rattle of explosions are but one 
of the terrors of the city ; the buzz and rush of electric 
cars, the clatter of that anachronism the horse, and 
barbarously paved streets ; the yell of the newsboy, 

117 



Ii8 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

the yapping and barking of dogs ; the raucous voices 
of city-dwellers who have to make themselves heard ; 
whistles and bells, and such bells — trams, carts, 
ragmen, and churches ! Is there any reason for the 
deadly inhuman clamour of those bells which are 
intended to remind us of eternity, and which have 
hurled so many a tired soul prematurely into it ? 
Piano-organs ! They are actually sometimes a relief, 
and no confession which praises them could more 
utterly damn the alternative. As for railways, a 
strong protest against their methods of whistling and 
exhausting steam was made by the British Medical 
Association so long ago as 1890. 

If insanity will not compel attention to the need 
of relief from the turbulence of town air, there is yet 
another fact to appeal to — the actual health and life 
of the children. The growth of infants is retarded 
by the noisy streets in which they live. 

Since overuse of any part of the body leads to its 
inevitable weakening and destruction, there is a 
steady increase in deafness. No one can look forward 
to the approach of this infirmity without misgiving, 
yet without it he runs the risk of brain damage. 
There is no middle way. If to the number of men J 
women, and children definitely afflicted with deafness] 
there be added those to whom the noise of towns is 
a perpetual irritation and lessener of efficiency, it is] 
safe to say that the bulk of the town population] 
would be included. 

Every townsman has noticed the restlessness of the 
first night spent in the stillness of a country bedroomj 
— a restlessness and sleeplessness caused by the lack] 
of the accustomed irritant. 



THE EARS 119 

Damage to the brain by noise indicates that there 
is a deficiency in the mechanism by means of which 
we hear, for if a Hght becomes irritating the closing of 
the eyes will at least mitigate that nuisance and secure 
a temporary reUef . We have no effective ear-Uds. 

Wool in the ears is an occasional relief though it 
carries its own dangers. The pathetic attempt of 
Carlyle to build a sound-proof chamber in his home 
at Chelsea is a model of the failures which have so far 
resulted from attempts to combat the evil from this 
side. The attack must be made on noise itself. 

As with the eyes, the more specialised the sense, 
the more sensitive is the apparatus. A shght differ- 
ence of degree or duration in the stimulation of eye 
or ear may lead to considerable mischief. In the 
eye it was found that this was largely traceable to 
default or damage of one small muscle, the ciliary 
muscle, and in hearing the tiny stapedius muscle of 
the middle ear has the chief brunt of endeavouring 
to neutralize harm. 

Of the hearing apparatus all that is outwardly 
perceptible is the seemingly superfluous external ear. 
This is not quite so useless as it looks, for its indenta- 
tions and irregularities are of use in localizing the 
direction of bounds. In man also is some remnant 
of the power to ' prick * his ears, for there are three 
muscles still attached to the external surface of each 
which it is still quite possible to bring into play by 
a Uttle practice. That the outer ear is of value has 
been proved by leaving the orifice of the ear open, 
and filling the rest to one flatness by means of vaseline 
or a similar compound. 

It is only after the curve of the external canal is 



120 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

passed that the fundamental hearing machinery is 
displayed. A membrane or drum takes up the air 
vibrations and transmits them by a chain of three 
minute bones to a still smaller membrane. One of 
the bones is directly attached to this small membrane ; 
it is called the stapes and is pulled on by the stapedius 
muscle : it is concerned with tightening or relaxing 
the inner membrane. By pulling upon the membrane 
it can damp down the vibrations transmitted from 
the drum of the ear considerably, and thus ensure 
that too great an intensity of vibration shall not be 
transmitted. 

When a loud sound is expected by the normal 
individual his stapedius muscle gets warning, and 
braces up the membrane to protect the sensitive 
auditory nerve. An unexpected loud sound, however, 
especially of high pitch, rushes straight to the un- 
protected nerve, and the cataclysm in the brain may 
result in permanent, though usually only temporary, 
deafness. But if neither results, evidently the brain 
cells to which the auditory nerve has promptly 
carried its blatant message have been unfairly treated, 
and results ensue to correspond. These may be read, 
mutatis mutandis, under what has already been written 
concerning vision. 

The irritabihty of brain cells in the parts which have 
to deal with sounds, or the memories of sounds, is 
evidently likely to be a fruitful source of insomnia 
and all that this leads to, so that the genesis of 
auditory dreams, or voices, or supernatural verbal 
messages, is comparatively simple, and is readily 
explicable by the hyperaemia of overworked brain 
areas making these paths of conduction easy to those 



THE EARS 121 

impulses which arise during the disturbed and un- 
refreshing sleep of so many citizens. 

The middle ear, which contains the little line of 
ossicles stretching from membrane to drum, conmiuni- 
cates with the air by the Eustachian tube running 
to the back of the nose. The tube supplies air to 
the middle ear and maintains the balance of the 
drum. Failure of the air supply leads naturally to 
absorption of the air in the chamber and collapse of 
the drum inwards with resultant deafness. 

An open Eustachian tube is necessary. Catarrh, 
such as arises in a common cold by extension to the 
nasal end of the tube, may block the tube and cause 
deafness. 

Presumably every one has noticed the tendency to 
deafness in the first few days of the cold. It arises 
by a plugging up of the Eustachian tube by mucus 
which covers all the nasal surfaces at such times. It 
has been suggested that this coat of mucus prevents 
organisms in the nose from gaining access to the 
middle ear, and there possibly setting up abscess. 
It is on this account not wise by forcible blowing of 
the nose to remove the plug, since the mucus and the 
microbes may be driven into the tube. As the cold 
departs the mucous obstruction will naturally come 
away. But if such deafness persists for more than a 
week, treatment must be obtained, otherwise the air 
in the ear chamber wiU be absorbed, the drum forced 
in by the external air pressure, and the temporary 
deafness be rendered permanent. 

Catarrhs, enlarged tonsils, adenoids, so common in 
children, make middle ear disease common among 
the children of hospital practice. 



122 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

From the relationship between throat, nose, and 
ear is enforced the value of care of the mouth and its 
connections. The healthy child must sleep with its 
mouth closed ; breathing with open mouth must be 
at once checked, for the mere passage of unwarmed 
air into the throat is sufficient to induce a catarrh. 
Fourteen in every hundred children at school are 
sufficiently deaf to interfere with their progress, 
and most of these are deaf because of neglect of 
common throat troubles. Of one thousand school 
children examined by Mr. Cheatle, four hundred and 
forty-nine were found to suffer from adenoids. 

Wax in the ear, in the manner of obscure eye 
troubles, may cause a vicarious suffering such as 
giddiness or vomiting. This is on account of a slip 
of nerve derived from the vagus, the great nerve of 
supply to the trunk organs which reaches the ear. 
In obscure cases of sickness or giddiness this possi- 
bility should not be overlooked. The best softener 
of troublesome wax is ordinary baking soda, a tea- 
spoonful to a tumbler of warm water: a little of 
this dropped into the ears for several nights will 
sufficiently loosen the hard deposit for it to be 
removable by gentle syringing with the same fluid. 
Picking the ears for this purpose with a pin, hair-pin, 
or match is a most dangerous procedure. 

Equilibration 

Closely associated with the organ of hearing, and 
innervated by the same nerve, is a separate mechan- 
ism composed of three semicircular canals arranged 
in three planes at right angles to each other. The 



I 



THE EARS 123 

fluid in these canals communicates directly with that 
contained in the inner ear, and must therefore be 
susceptible of the same stimulation as that which is 
concerned in hearing. But the influence of this is very 
different. By the movement in or out of the fluid 
in any canal we obtain our sense of position in space, 
and the three combined serve us for equiUbration. 

From this apparatus for equiUbration is probably 
derived the sensation which gives pleasure in dancing, 
on account of the rhythmic ebb and flow thus induced 
in the canals, and it is probable that seasickness 
is caused by the unaccustomed disturbance of the 
canals by the motion of the ship, a proposition that 
rules out of account most of the vaunted specifics for 
this disorder. 

Those aerial waves which play upon the organ of 
hearing must also affect equilibration, and to this 
may be ascribed the giddiness frequently caused by 
too loud sounds. What is certain is that the canals 
help us in keeping a balance, and it is only reasonable 
to assume that what may damage the ear may also 
damage them. 



CHAPTER XIII 

THE NOSE 

WHETHER or not the sense of smell is more 
of an advantage or a disadvantage to the 
dweller in cities where cats, dogs, horses, factories, 
and man himself is allowed to pollute the atmo- 
sphere need not be discussed. 

To incessant auditory and visual stimuh must be 
added the persistent hail of noxious particles which 
assault the organ of smell. It is well known that each 
great city has its distinctive smell : a return to 
London after a few weeks' absence will rapidly con- 
vince any except the anosmic of this truth. 

The actual nerves of smell are situated high up 
inside the nasal cavity, and the sensation of smell 
is produced by the actual contact of infinitesimal 
particles of the odorous substance to the sense mem- 
brane. That these odorous particles must be ex- 
ceeding small is proved by an observation of Haller. 
He found that a morsel of paper impregnated with a 
particle of ambergris which could only be approxi- 
mately represented by a fraction of which the 
numerator was i and the denominator 2,5oOiOOO,ooo 
parts of a grain, maintained its distinctive perfume 
for forty years. 

It is an extremely curious fact that those micro- 
organisms which are perceptible by the nose are 

124 



THE NOSE 125 

non-pathogenic, whilst the dangerous germs of 
cholera, smaU-pox, tuberculosis, and measles may be 
in the air without any nasal warning. The mucous 
membrane of the nose has been found to contain 
more than thirty varieties of baciUi, some of them, 
such as the different micro-organisms of suppuration, 
capable of developing a very rapid virulence. 

The nerve filaments concerned with smell are de- 
rived from an outgrowth of the brain. From the 
intimate connection of smell with the brain arises 
the powers of association called into play by many 
odours : there is no more powerful stimulus to the 
recollection of scenes and other memories than scent. 

On account of the quick connection between brain 
and nose the olfactory nerve would appear to have 
been selected among animals as an important aid 
to their preservation. The eye is, perhaps, quite 
the easiest sense-organ to deceive, a truth which is 
taken advantage of in the colouring of all the car- 
nivora blending readily with their surroundings. But 
it is not possible for the sense of smell to be so 
deceived. 

As a protective faculty for man, smell has greatly 
degenerated, though it will still give warning of 
escapes of such dangerous effluvia as coal-gas, emana- 
tions from drains, and so forth. There is a popular 
impression that a bad smell can cause sore throat 
and even diphtheria. We know this idea is incorrect, 
but there may possibly be an actual depressing effect 
produced by the evil odour. 

The scent of flowers, of pine forests, and that odour 
supposed due to ozone induce the individual to take 
deeper breaths, that he may increase their agreeable 



126 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

stimulation. In a different respect as an incentive 
to appetite and the secretion of the appropriate 
digestive fluids, odour, aroma, or bouquet have all 
their uses. Fortunately, too, it is still occasionally 
possible, despite the perverse devices of a dishonest 
age, to distinguish bad food by its smell. 

In the nasal cavities lie a series of spongy bones 
covered by a thick velvety membrane full of blood- 
vessels, and covered with shmy mucus. These form 
a simple heating apparatus for all air which passes 
over them — hence one advantage and necessity of 
nose-breathing. 

Air entering the nose impinges upon this warm 
moist surface so that most of the dust, dirt, and the 
microbes in the air are caught on the slimy surface. 
Air thus inspired will very evidently contain little 
impurity by the time it reaches the larynx and 
windpipe. Some of this collection of dirt is elimin- 
ated by using the pocket handkerchief ; a pro- 
portion passes on to mingle with the mucous secre- 
tion of the back of the nose, and, aided by the current 
from the tear-ducts which open there, passes into the 
throat and finally reaches the gullet and the ali- 
mentary tract. Nature attends to a too irritating 
accumulation by causing sneezing, or an increased 
secretion of mucus, in nose ' running.' Blowing the 
nose vigorously should be one of the rites of health, 
and the time for practising it is the last thing at night 
and the first in the morning. This performance 
affects also the Eustachian tube, and reinflates the 
middle ear. Sneezing acts in the same way, and this 
is the sole excuse for a pinch of snuff. 

Our present method of carefully wrapping up all 



THE NOSE 127 

the detached nasal secretion, with its attendant 
baciUi, and of then placing them in the favourable 
warmth of a pocket, is abominable. It has been 
urged again and again that the linen or silk article 
should be replaced, if not by the free and easy 
methods of the beggar, by an article made of paper 
which could be at once destroyed. Dried tubercle 
baciUi are flourishing upon the handkerchiefs of one 
out of every six people in England, and one in every 
six of us succumbs to their attack. Paper handker- 
chiefs after the Japanese model are now obtainable 
in England. Scent on handkerchiefs, so objection- 
able to the average man, is yet antiseptic in so far as 
it contains volatile oils, and is to that degree tolerable. 
In some people there is a hypersensitive state of 
nasal nerves as regards special odours. The irritating 
pollen from grass has given the name to * hay fever,' 
but it may arise from the odour of special flowers or 
animals. In midsummer the Httle town of Grasse, 
in France, is subject to veritable epidemics of hay 
fever caused by the picking of orange-flowers. 



CHAPTER XIV 

POSITION 

THE unborn child spends several months in a 
position that would lead one to expect a per- 
manent modification of the bodily form of its after- 
Hfe. Yet no deformity results, and any malforma- 
tions of limbs, trunk, and head are due to other 
causes. The Indian papoose is strapped rigidly to its 
mother's back with no apparent harm resulting. The 
children of some lower classes are swathed tightly in 
numerous folds of a voluminous shawl and so carried 
for long periods ; yet, though an Englishman pro- 
fessed to discover in this the reason for any number of 
deformities perceived by him in the slum children 
of Glasgow, there is no sufiicient evidence to prove 
his contention. Children are fastened into per- 
ambulators so that movement of the lower limbs is 
impossible, yet permanent harm is hard to discover. 
These forces do not act continuously. 

What can be done by the application of force 
without intermission is shown by the foot of the 
Chinese lady, which may be compressed into a space 
some three inches long. 

Sitting there is far too much of. We have abolished 
the older method of reclining at meals in its favour. 
We sit at concerts, lectures, business, school, cricket, 
football — even war is not seldom directed from an 

128 



POSITION 129 

armchair. Instead of miles of exercise to com- 
municate with a distant friend, we sit down to the 
telephone or in a Pulhnan car. The cinematograph, 
the post, the press, and the telegraph bring all our 
needs to our chair. Man has found that less energy 
is required to sit than to stand, and much less than to 
go about. Medical knowledge informs him that the 
heart beats several times fewer in the sitting than in 
the erect position. Possibly the nation then is resting 
its heart I 

We have increased the evil by our ingenious 
upholstery. The padding of seats is not now merely 
a form, their backs are designed for use. As a result, 
man has come to depend more and more upon his 
ligaments. A joint consists of the participating 
bones, and the ligaments of strong inelastic tissue 
which bind these together. But in addition, playing 
over every joint and contributing largely to the pro- 
per apposition of its bones, are the tendons of muscles. 
Inextensible as the ligaments are, if day after day, 
and year after year, the same forces are persistently 
brought to bear upon them, and none of the strain 
relieved by the tension of muscles, then inevitably 
they must yield. As a result of the slow weakening 
of special ligaments special ' sets ' of the body are 
obtained. You may perceive it in the * Eton slouch,' 
though this is in no way dissimilar from the usual 
shambhng gait of the average citizen. When muscles 
are less and less called upon to do their share in 
maintaining position, these also must lose * tone.' 
As evidently, when muscle is required to brace parts 
up to the full normal, it has first to take up the 
* slack ' so engendered before it can begin to make 



r3o THE CARE OF THE BODY 

effective effort — which is clearly against speed, 
economy of effort, and efficiency. Want of tone 
in the muscular system — which contains fully one- 
quarter of the blood of the body — must be reflected 
in the general health, so that sagging bodies will 
naturally account for anaemic and colourless minds. 

The dependence upon the ligaments is marked 
whether a man stands with loosened knees or leaning 
against a wall or post, slouches with forward-drooping 
shoulders, or sits or lounges for half his time. The 
effects of perpetual sitting in women add to the 
general bad results by congestion of their pelvic 
organs, so that the typewriter girl, telephone operator, 
telegraph clerk — women in business anywhere, in 
fact — are physically deteriorated for the pains and 
pleasures of motherhood. The reasons are obvious. 
Sedentary occupations set up an enlargement of the 
veins of the pelvis, and particularly of the female 
organs of generation, and induce a catarrhal inflam- 
mation of singularly persistent and debilitating 
character leading to unhealthiness and possibly 
malpositions of the womb. No girl of thirteen or 
over should be allowed to spend more than two hours 
a day in continuous sitting. 

it is too much to hope that the school of the future 
will allow the children in the lower departments to 
He down or sprawl at intervals, though this is very 
necessary for their health and backs as well as for 
their limbs. At birth the backbone or spinal column 
from neck to lower loins shows only one long curve 
with concavity forward. Shortly a curve at each 
end in the opposite direction begins to appear. 
These are the cervical and lumbar curves, and the 



POSITION 131 

completion of them gives that distinctive erectness 
to the human carriage. If a baby sits up too soon, 
its heavy head falling forwards will help to maintain 
the original single forward curve of its extremely 
flexible backbone, and the result is that spinal de- 
formity known as kyphosis. Any too early or per- 
sistent strain on the soft spine of childhood will tend 
to produce deformity, and the curve of the deformity 
will naturally vary with the special malposition. 

Put a child of even five years at an infant school 
desk ; teach it to lay its left arm on the desk while 
it uses its right hand in making pot-hooks ; keep this 
up for a year or two, and if there were no deviation 
in the size of the chest, the height of the shoulders, 
the sight, and the power of the hand on the two 
sides, this would be extraordinary. As an interesting 
development from the greater use of the right hand 
may be noted the hegemony which is possessed by the 
left side of the brain, for there is situated the all- 
important centre of speech. The left half of the 
brain governs the right side of the body and vice 
versa: the left position for the centre of speech is 
due to there being need of the closest connection 
between it and the most active working half of the 
brain and body. If you have apoplexy of the left 
brain, you will probably lose your speech if you are 
right-handed. Left-handed people speak with the 
right side of their brain. Ambidexterity has been 
suggested as a possible mode of overcoming the risks 
of a one-sided brain. 

In those individuals who are right-handed there 
is a definite curvature of the spine towards that side, 
associated with the more powerful action of the 



132 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

muscles of the right shoulder, arm, etc. Even the 
general asymmetry of the nose is a possible effect of a 
lifelong use ot the handkerchief from one side only. 

It is possible that constipation in children is 
greatly aided by their prolonged sitting in school. 
Children should change their position frequently, 
and if the stools or seats are made single, and these 
and the desks of the proper height, standing can be 
taken advantage of to exercise the lower limbs. 
But as already said, any child till, say, the age of 
ten should, in the ideal condition, be able to sit, 
stand, or sprawl at intervals as much in school as 
out of it. In the best offices the desks for the clerks 
are at such a height that standing can readily be 
indulged in as alternative to the universal sitting. 

There is no justification whatever for ' drilling.* 
Play for the same period would be much more 
valuable. A healthy man or a healthy child, who 
has never seen a soldier or a drill-instructor, will 
walk upright, and with an infinitely preferable 
carriage to that of the professional soldier. Let the 
children play. They are neither Httle men, little 
women, nor little soldiers. In lieu of no exercise 
whatever, choose driUing, but if there is any other 
choice take it. Musical drill, however, unquestion- 
ably pleases the children and gives them a pleasant 
change. 

But clerks and children are not the only sufferers 
from monotony of position or action. ' Writer's 
cramp,' induced by the continual use of one set of 
muscles, is one of the best known of the disabiUties 
induced by faulty position. Those who write from 
the wrist are most likely to suffer from it, and wrist 



POSITION 133 

writing is naturally what we are taught. Appear- 
ances may be disregarded with advantage in such a 
matter, and, though writing from the forearm with 
the whole hand moving may not look as neat or 
businesshke, it has its compensations. The bulk of 
modern writing may now, of course, be done by 
typewriters, but such writing as that required of 
cashiers can, so far, only be done by the pen, and 
there is no more cramping penmanship than this. 
Daily massage of the muscles concerned is a useful 
preventive, and one to be early adopted. The cramp 
itself is a spasm of the muscles and nerves suffering 
from the ' irritability of weakness,' in which muscular 
contractions, instead of acting at definitely separated 
intervals, fuse into one long contraction or cramp. 
Pianists are occasionally similarly afflicted, and this 
is hardly to be wondered at if it be realized that a 
Paderewski is capable of thirty consecutive finger 
movements, representing many more muscular con- 
tractions, per second : it requires a first-rate ordinary 
pianist to perform the same movements eighteen 
times in a second. Professional cigarette-rollers are 
liable to a similar infirmity. 

Little need be said on the point of how awkward- 
ness of position conduces not merely to inefficiency 
in the special action concerned but also to fatigue. 
We commend good position by the names * style,' 
* form,' * grace,' ' poise.' Nature has seen to it that 
in position the easiest way is again the best. There 
is much in a good style, whether in batting, boxing, 
or walking, since such possession indicates a har- 
mony with a deep-laid parsimony of nature. The 
wrist of a Ranjitsinjhi is as effective — and infinitely 



134 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

pleasanter to watch — as the mighty * slog ' of a 
Hirst. 

The carriage of the head and body which is so 
admired in those Eastern maidens who are accus- 
tomed to bearing their laden pitcher from the well 
balanced upon their heads, depends upon just such 
an appreciation of the benefits attainable by a wise 
combination of the mechanical action of the weight, 
directed by a combination of muscular and gravita- 
tional forces : it is undoubtedly the method most 
saving of energy and is accompanied by those appeals 
to our consciousness which we have labelled aesthetic. 

This question of beauty reminds one that the 
natural pose of woman is that which suggests re- 
ceptivity, and is not that absolute erectness, much 
less the brazen convexity, which an alteration in the 
shape of the pelvis caused by modern athleticism will 
undoubtedly produce. The natural attitude of the 
erect female figure when depending upon only muscle 
tone is that which suggests a slightly retiring curve. 

Perfect poise and balance of all the parts of the 
body indicates an equal readiness and ability of all 
the muscles to contract, and while, for purposes of 
work or play, certain positions of certain muscular 
groups are found to possess advantages for the special 
function in view, it must not be forgotten that the 
power of complete inhibition of all contraction is a 
useful asset. The miraculous escapes of children who 
fall downstairs, or out of high perambulators, affords 
evidence of the usefulness upon occasion of muscular 
relaxation. The notorious comparative immunity of 
drunkards from death by accidents is ascribable to 
a similar voUtionless flaccidity. And thus may be 



POSITION 135 

learned the useful lesson of leaving the body to take 
care of itself during falls. The rugby player learns 
it. 

Such deformities as knock-knees, bow-legs, and 
their kindred scarcely belong to this subject, since, 
though they may undoubtedly be caused by attempts 
to assume too early the positions of walking and 
standing in some cases, they are complicated by the 
existence of rickets in the majority of instances. 

Position is the muscular reflection of a central 
nervous condition, and the preferences for special 
positions connotes a habit in nerve cells. The fewer 
the stereotyped positions that are formed, the more 
amenable is the body to fresh groupings and co- 
ordinations of its muscles, and the more flexible and 
responsive will be the whole body to any new de- 
mands that may be made upon its various motilities. 



CHAPTER XV 

HABIT 

AT first mere paths in desert, jungle, or mountain, 
J~\ or the single furrows of isolated keels on lake, 
river, or sea have been all that connected tribe to 
tribe, village to village, and people to people. But as 
human porterage gave way before the ampler loads 
of animals, and as tracks became paths and roads 
and highways, and the * swan paths ' of Norsemen 
and Viking grew to vessel and trade routes, the Hues 
of worldly intercommunication hardened, defined, 
and became permanent, till to-day there is not a 
spot on earth, not excepting the Poles, towards which 
a journey must not at first proceed on clearly laid lines. 

The brain which could evolve the immortahty of 
' trailing clouds of glory ' was only made possible by 
the fixing of nervous routes, which began first of all 
with the vaguest of responses to stimuli. No im- 
pulse or stimulus can reach the body but its path is 
already mapped out for it among the lower nervous 
centres. 

When the first amoeba, with helplessly outflowing 
processes, first retracted one of them from the particle 
that threatened death, it acquired tactile, and this, 
with other aeonic developments, has furnished us with 
brain and all the possibihties of soul, intellect, and habit. 

We can trace the development from the flowing of 

136 



HABIT 137 

the whole body plasm of the amoeba to an organism 
made up of many cells, of which some are specially 
designed for nervous and muscular work, as in the 
Coelenterata ; thence to the Hydra with separate, 
nervous cells ; and sea-anemones with superficial sen- 
sory cells connected with underlying nerve cells, from 
which fibres pass to contractile elements. This is a 
chronological chain of which every stage may be 
observed in the world even now. In higher animals 
the superficial sensitive cells evolve till they become 
the organs of sense ; the underlying nerve cells be- 
come the gangha and the central nervous system ; 
the contractile elements become muscles, while the 
interconnecting fibres have grown into nerves. 

The brain of man is the direct descendant of the 
primal sensitive superficial cell : it is directly related 
with his skin, and there is a stage in the development 
of the human embryo when the cells which are the 
antecedent of the brain may be seen separating from 
the foetal skin. All hfe, mind and soul arise from 
impulses sent from the surface to organs which are 
derived from the surface. 

The test of all morality and ethics is, in the last 
analysis, conduct, and the basis of conduct is move- 
ment, which itself depends upon a neuro-muscular 
equipment. Evidently the foundation on which ' con- 
duct ' rests is the * reflex arc,' which is the simplest 
possible of nerve and muscle combinations. A pure * re- 
flex arc ' consists of a sensitive cell, a fibre communi- 
cating with an inner nervous cell, and a fibre thence 
to a muscle cell. Tickle the sole of a baby's foot and 
the leg will be drawn up ; that is a pure reflex act. 
Through the enormous elaboration of human processes 



138 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

it is scarcely possible to find in the body a perfect 
example of a primary form of this unit. The nearest 
approach to it is complicated always by several 
relays of cells and fibres. Even in winking, which 
is the quickest human reflex known — occurring in 
twentieths of a second — there are many sensitive cells 
fibres, motor fibres, and muscular strands involved. 

Wundt tells us winking was originally volitional 
and then became stereotyped in the ' memory ' of 
the cells as a result of their frequent use ; that this 
frequency of employment began a * habit,' and that 
from this to the elimination of consciousness, to the 
formation of a * reflex,' was an easy step. We are 
further asked to believe that all reflexes have origin- 
ated in this fashion. 

The beginner at billiards is hampered by the length 
of his cue : he strikes extraordinary attitudes in 
order to get his eye as near the level of the table as 
possible ; he finds his elbow in the way ; has difficulty 
in making an efficient * bridge ' ; probably finds that 
he is overbalanced by an awkward position of legs 
and feet ; and finally, with the tip of the cue only 
an inch or so from the ball, may actually miss it 
altogether by the clumsiness of his stroke. Yet 
the same man will a few months later screw a difficult 
shot into a pocket as a result of habits which have 
become automatic, though the chances are that if 
he be asked to tell precisely the different mechanisms 
he has so easily co-ordinated he will omit three- 
quarters of them. The same process may be noticed 
in the pianist or typist who can execute a compHcated 
series of digital movements and at the same time 
talk of totally different matters. 



HABIT 139 

Habit, then, is ' the memory of the body,' and is 
of excellent service in saving conscious memory. In 
view of the extraordinary ability of the cells to ' re- 
member,* it must be seen to that these memories, 
where they are controllable, shall be of the kind best 
calculated to help man's progress towards the stars : 
' Our acts our angels are, or good or ill' Over habits 
then, and their offspring reflexes, there is need for 
careful supervision. 

Reflexes are concerned with the life of the organism 
as a whole : this is why /they make no appeal to 
consciousness, for no conscious movement can be 
perfectly and continuously rhythmical, as is the beat 
of the heart, the movement of the lungs, the secre- 
tions of the body juices concerned with digestion, or 
the regular movements of the stomach. These are 
mechanisms which do not require to be taught their 
business, and which fortunately we can influence 
only indirectly. They with their organs form what 
is most deeply ' natural ' within us, and may safely 
be left to do what is best for us if we do what is best 
for ourselves. The value of any habit Ukely to be 
acquired must be carefully examined. For ' a slave 
to habit ' is a mere phrase. It indicates an actual 
change in the structure of the brain, which after a 
certain time, and particularly after a certain age, can 
hardly be removed, since it is dependent upon per- 
manent alterations in nervous tissues. 

The brain consists of over six hundred millions 
of cells of all sizes and shapes, each of these possessing 
innumerable branching filaments or fibres, by means 
of which it is brought into the closest possible con- 
nection with others, though actual contact is never 



140 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

made. The intervening space, of the minutest 
possible dimensions, is filled by a homogeneous jelly 
of which we know nothing more than its properties. 
This it is that resists most vigorously the com- 
munication of cell with cell, or fibre with cell, or fibre 
with fibre : it is the part of the nervous system which 
is most susceptible to fatigue and every other harm- 
ful influence ; but when once a bridge has been made 
by the passage of an impulse over any part of it, the 
memory of this remains, or the actual structure of 
its material is so altered that all future passage is 
facilitated. 

In the sparing of fatigue to the organism lies a 
prime justification of the value of habit, and in the 
possibiHty connected with it of the possibihty re- 
duplicating the force and scope of any habitual pro- 
cess. Compare one beat of the heart with another 
under the same circumstances : could such exactitude 
of strength and time be reduplicated by a conscious 
operation ? It will be found that, whenever it is 
necessary for man, woman, or child to make the same 
motion hundreds of times in succession, their pre- 
cision will depend largely upon the extent to which 
volition is left out of the matter. Habit, once formed, 
means the capacity to reproduce exactly similar 
results with the minimum of fatigue. 

I do not mean to limit the advantages of habit to 
merely muscular mechanisms ; what has been stated 
regarding these applies with equal force to every 
realm of mental and moral activity. The same 
materials are involved. Nerve cell, nerve fibre, and 
nerve S5mapse — these are the essentials. 

Habits of thought have from their ease their 



HABIT 141 

menace in the shape of limitation or narrowness; 
while, as the natural converse, those who have built 
up none or few of such habits are Hkely to possess a 
livelier imagination, since the arriving energy is free 
to travel anywhere among the association fibres of the 
brain, and can thus combine a greater complex of 
visual, auditory, and other memories. 

In this danger, then, of habits of action as well as 
thought being too hable to cause hmitation lies an 
obvious offset to its advantages, and there is more 
in this point than only the /eady accessibihty of the 
well-trodden paths of thought or action. It is the 
case, when any such system is well established, that 
it tends to isolate itself, by making communication 
with other cerebral areas even more difficult than 
is accounted for by the natural resistance of the 
synapses. A greater effort, therefore, is necessary 
to break down the barriers of habit than is necessary 
to take the first step in acquiring a quite new one ; 
and of this the moral is clear : it is utiHzed in the 
treatment of those habits which have become so 
firmly rooted as to be obsessions. New habits are 
attempted which may eventually override the 
obsession of old habits. 

Naturally the first practical application of the value 
of habit should be made in the case of children. The 
infant must acquire the habit of taking its meals of 
the proper quantity at the proper hours of day and 
night, but at this tender age this is ahnost all that 
can be done. The reflex action of the muscles which 
control the bladder and rectum will suffice to attend 
to these primary necessities of the young animal. 

But when the child attains the age at which speech 



142 THE CARE OF THE BODY 

begins to be understood, then must also begin that 
training of which the fullest adult life is the amplest 
reflection — the education in the habit of inhibition. 
This inhibition, meaning * preventing ' or * wilUng 
not to,* is, by a curious paradox, the supreme mani- 
festation of the will. 

Not for a moment is it declared that all natural 
impulses or reflexes must be always inhibited, but 
the power to say * No ' is the priceless heritage of 
man, and the judicious use of this power the criterion 
of his evolutionary status ; just as at a very early 
age it is needful for the child to be able to resist the 
inconvenient calls of nature, so the power of restraint 
thus begun will pervade its whole history. 

Along with these trainings will naturally be ac- 
quired the habit of obedience. No demands on this 
score of docihty should, however, be allowed to check 
the bodily activities of young children. Interference 
with the reflexes which prompt a child's limbs and 
body to movements is bound to do harm, as is indeed 
any checking of the reflexes concerned with excretion 
— unless, for these, times are appointed at regular 
and desirable intervals. The waste of a child's 
energy requires outlet as surely as do the waste 
products of its food and body. 

With the age of speech begins the ability to 
manifest ' original sin,* which is by no means a pure 
reflex, but a condition well within the cognisance 
of the child's consciousness. It is a feature which 
without question partakes of the nature of instinct, 
inasmuch as it is made possible by early developed 
paths ; but, differently from the ages and states in 
which instincts are admissible, there are at this age 



HABIT 143 

other areas of the brain quite capable of cultivation, 
and it must be the concern of the parents or friends 
to give these other more desirable regions their fair 
chance, for only so can the almost instinctive bar- 
barities of youth be nullified. 

It is not essential that even one of the instincts 
pure or mixed should survive, since the place of 
these is quite competently filled by the enormous 
variety of acquirements made possible to man by 
his powers of perception and consciousness. In- 
stincts are only really servigeable to animals and the 
irrational man. It is probably best that instincts, 
along with the rest of the beast within us, should be 
allowed to lapse. Instinct has been too long over- 
laid in man for it to be essential to human Ufe. 

During the school period are initiated the habits of 
work and of a more restricted exercise, a training in 
acquirements which from the commencement should 
be based on what is known of the body, and with an 
eye to what is best for the future man. At this 
stage above all should be encouraged the habit of 
thought, which means the opening up and keeping 
open of the widest possible channels of brain-cell 
communication. 

Habits, then, are of value for conserving energy in 
those processes where active thought would retard 
efficiency of performance ; they are a danger when, 
from any combination of causes, they interfere with 
the power of fully utilizing all the faculties within us 
upon which a later evolution has set the seal of 
approval. 



INDEX 



Absorption, skin, 22, 23. 

Acland, on early rising, 10. 

Acne (pimples), prevention of, 75. 

Adenoids, 121. 

Air, amount of, necessary in bed- 
rooms, 14 ; night, 15 ; air of 
bedroom should approximate to 
outer, 15 ; importance of fresh, 
107. 

Alcohol, effect of, on brain, i ; on 
body tissues, 49 ; on heart, 51 ; 
on facial blood-vessels, 73 ; ap- 
plication of, to feet, 99. 

Aleiptes (Greek professional 
trainer), 41. 

Alkalies, action of, 68. 

Alopecia, 78. 

Ambidexterity, 131. 

Amoeba, contrasted with children, 
32 ; tactile developments of first, 
136. 

Anabolisni, 11, 35. 

Anaemia, iii, 112 ; brain, arising 
in sleep, 3 ; cause of, debatable, 
3 ; needful for brain rest, 5, 18. 

Apoplexy, Greek athletes subject 
to, 41; revealed by the eyes, iii. 

Apples, benefit of, to teeth, 94. 

Aquae Rosae, use of, 73. 

Arsenic, effect of, on complexions, 

75- 
Astigmatism, iii. 

Baldness, "jj, 78. 

Ball games, 45. 

Barber's rash, 86. 

Bath, warm, as inducing sleep, 

18 ; contrasted with cold bath, 

21 ; importance of, 24. 

Russian, 26. 

shower, 25. 



Bath, Turkish, 26. 

vapour, 26. 

cold, value of, 20, 29 ; tem- 
perature of, 21. 

electric, efficacy of, in obtain- 

/ ing ingress of medicaments, 22. 

hot, retards bodily processes, 

24 ; use of, for cramp, 24 ; tends 
to produce sleep, 24 ; rubbing 
after, essential, 25 ; use of, by 
Japanese, 29. 

medicated, 28. 

milk, 68. 

mud, 29. 

peat, 29. 

rose-water, 68. 

sand, 29. 

sun, 106. 

Bathing, advantages ot sea, 27; 
best time for, 27-8. 

Beard, protection afforded by, 86. 

Bed, faults in, or bedclothes, in- 
somnia due to, 6. 

proper place of, 16 ; proper 

time to 'make,' 17; undesira- 
bility of the feather, 17. 

Bedroom, ventilation of, 13-15 ; 
aspect of, 16 ; should be oval, 
16 ; should be heated by radi- 
ators, not gas, 16 ; height of, 
16 ; floor of, 16. 

Belladonna, poisoningby, revealed 
by the eyes, in. 

Biscuits, hard, benefit of, to teeth, 
94. 

Blindness, tobacco, 115. 

Blisters, 99. 

Boat race, Oxford and Cambridge, 
harmful training in, 40. 

Boxing, 46 ; value of massage in 
contests, 54. 



146 



THE CARE OF THE BODY 



Boys, amovmt of sleep necessary 

for, 10. 
Brain, relationship of, to body, 

131. 137. 
cells, fatigue dependent on, 

2 ; reconstruction necessary for, 

3 ; number of, 3, 139 ; shrink- 
age of, 3 ; effect of sleep on, 3 ; 
red, 3 ; muscular action limited 
by fatigue in, 6 ; welfare of, 
concerned with muscles of pro- 
gression, 36 ; their share in 
producing fatigue, 43 ; action 
of certain acids upon, means 
fatigue, 50 ; their warnings, 51 ; 
irritability of, as regards sounds, 
120 ; their ability to remember, 

139- , 
Bright's disease, iii. 
Brilliantine, use of, 82, 83. 
Broadbent, on insomnia, 6. 
Bromidrosis, 99. 
Brushes, ' military, ' effect of using, 

82. 
Burns, the poet, 13. 

Cancer, lip as favourite site for, 
76. 

Cantlie, Dr., on health main- 
tenance, 39. 

Caps, unsuitability of, 60, 80. 

Carpets, condemnation of, in bed- 
rooms, 15. 

Catabolism, 11, 35. 

Catarrh, deafness caused by, 121 ; 
caused by breathing through 
open mouth, 122. 

Cazalis, famous dictum of, 49. 

Ceilings, necessity for washing, 
15 ; colour of, 16. 

Chance, Mr., dates dental 
troubles back to intra-uterine 
life, 87. 

' Chapped ' hands, 67. 

Cheatle, Mr., deafness statistics 
compiled by, 122. 

Chiene, Prof, his advice to stu- 
dents, 8. 

Chilblains, 67, 97. 

Children, exercise obtained by, 
31, 34; restlessness of, ex- 
plained, 33 ; their need for play, 



33 ; governed by instincts, 34 ; 
age of puberty in, needs watch- 
ing, 34 ; their progress, 37 ; 
condition of jaws of newly-born, 
88; bottle-fed, 88; breast-fed, 
88 ; spoon-fed, 89 ; teething of, 
89 ; their milk teeth, 90 ; their 
permanent teeth, 91 ; tooth- 
drill for, 94 ; defective eyesight 
in, 1 12-13 ; early care for their 
eyes, 115, 116 ; growth of young, 
retarded by noise, 118; ear dis- 
eases of, 121 ; deafness amongst 
school, 122 ; their need for 
changing position, 130 ; shape 
of their backbone, 130-1 ; 
constipation in, cause of, 132 ; 
no justification for drilling, 132 ; 
escapes of falling, due to muscu- 
lar relaxation, 134; habits neces- 
sary for, 141-3 ; ' original sin ' 
of, 142. 

Chin, ' double,' 76. 

Cholera, 125. 

Chorea, as effect of too early 
rising, 10. 

Cigar-ash, as tooth powder, 67. 

Cigarette paper, as cause of 
cancer, 76. 

Ciliary muscle, 114, 119. 

Clayton, his experiments with 
beans, 104. 

Clothing, reasons for, 55 ; as 
maintainers of heat, 55 ; best 
materials for, 56 ; a new-born 
infant's, 57 ; children's, 58 ; 
boys' and girls', 58 ; adults', 
59 ; deficiency of, or dirty, effect 
of, on skin, 67. 

Cocoa, cerebral action of, 51. 

Coelenterata, 137. 

Coffee, cerebral action of, 51. 

Cold, insomnia due to, 6 ; head 
requires assistance against, 80. 

Colds, origin of, 28, 30 ; deafness 
arising from, 121. 

Colics, use of hot bath for, 24. 

Comb, 85. 

' Comforter,' condemned, 89. 

Corns, 67, 97, 99, 100. 

Cramp, use of hot bath for, 24 ; 
writer's, 132-3. 



INDEX 



147 



Cream, cold, 70, 73, 75. 

Cricket, 46, 115, 

Curtains, condemnation of, in 

bedrooms, 15, 16. 
Cycling, 46. 

Dancing, 46, 123. 

Dandruff, not removed by hard 
brushing, 82 ; responsible for 
loss of hair, 83 ; how removed, 

83. 
Darwin, Sir Geo. , on sleep, 10. 
Deafness, 118, 120, 121. 
Deterioration, causes of, 49. 
Douche, cold, 25. 

needle, 25. 

Scotch, 25. 

Draughts, insomnia due to, 6; 

colds caused by, 30. 
Dreams, 4 ; by suggestion, 4-5 ; 

resulting from over-exertion, 5 ; 

from over-use of visual cells, 7 ; 

relation of, to visions and ghosts, 

8. 
Drilling, no justification for, 132. 
Dumb-bells, use of, 38, 47. 
Dyspepsia, insomnia due to, 6; 

effect of, on complexion, 73. 

Ears, effect of noises on, 1 17-18 ; 
use of wool in, 119 ; man's 
power to 'prick' his, 119; 
function of external, 119; how 
deafness caused, 120, 121 ; wax 
in, 122. 

Egypt, use of gold-stoppings in, 

93- 

Electricity, value of, in minute 

quantities, 28. 
Electrolysis, 76, 86. 
Emotion, insomnia due to, 6. 
Enamel, beauty of teeth due to, 

91 ; impervious to bacteria, 91 ; 

must not be scratched by hard 

powders, 92. 
Energy, amount of, required to 

maintain body temperature, 39 ; 

expenditure of, varies with 

different progressions, 39-40. 
Epidermis, 66. 
Epilepsy, as effect of too early 



rising, 10; Napoleon subject 

to, II. 

Epithelioma, 100. 

Equilibration, 122-3. 

Ergograph, the, 2. 

Eustachian tube, 121, 126. 

' Evening dress,' advantages of, 
62. 

Exercise, influence of, on mind, 
31 ; for young children, 32 ; for 
women, 35 ; importance of 
walking and running, 36 ; re- 
lation of, to feeding, 38 ; of 
Greek athletes, 41 ; methods 
of, 44-8 ; before breakfast, 48 ; 
open air, 48 ; promotes happi- 

y ness, 52 ; best corrective for 
joint colds, loi. 

Eyes, how revived, 2 ; effect of 
certain diseases on, iii ; neglect 
of, may cause stomach and liver 
troubles, 112; examination of 
children's, 1 12-13 ; made by 
nature for distant vision, 113 ; 
their complexity, 113 ; effect of 
printing on, 113; muscles of, 
114; effect of artificial illumina- 
tion on, 115 ; of games on, 115 ; 
of smoking on, 115 ; care of, 
should begin at birth, 115 ; 
foreign bodies entering, 116 ; 
deceit of, easy, 125. 



Face, muscles of, 70 ; effect of 
steam on, 72. 

Fat, superfluous, removed by 
vigorous rubbing, 53. 

Fatigue, dependent on brain, not 
muscles, 2-3 ; Bevan Lewis on, 
10 ; explanation of, 50 ; articles 
delaying, 51 ; effect of alcohol 
on, 51. 

Feather beds, condemnation of, 

17. 
Feet, formation of, 97 ; flat, 98 ; 

blistering of, 99. 
Finger-prints, 66. 
Finsen, 104. 
Flammarion, M., his experiments 

with plants in coloured frames, 

105. 



148 



THE CARE OF THE BODY 



Fogs, prevention of, io8. 
Football, 44, 46. 
Foot-gear, 97, 98, 100. 
France, importance of massage 

in, 53. 
Freckles, 75, 102, 106. 
Friction, pros and cons of, 24. 
Fruits, advantage of, as a diet, 

73. 

Galen, 44. 

Gas fires, use of, in bedrooms, not 

desiratjle, 16, 
Germany, massage in, 53 ; 

children's eyesight tests made 

in, 112. 
Ghosts, their connection with 

dreams, 8-9. 
Glands, sweat, 21, 22. 

'sebaceous,' 23. 

Gloves, necessary qualities for, 

loi, 102. 
Glycerine, 74. 
Golf, 45, 115. 
Grasse, hay fever at, 127. 
Grassois, the, no. 
Greece, professional athletes of, 

40. 
'Growing pains,' 58. 
Growth, stimulated by gentle 

rubbing, 52. 
Guiacol, effect of skin application, 

22. 
Gum-boils, 94. 
Gymnastics, 47. 

Habit, beginnings of, 136 ; as aid 
to games, 138 ; indicates change 
in brain structure, 139 ; value 
of, 140, 143 ; definition of, 140 ; 
dangers of, 141 ; education of 
children in, of inhibition, 142 ; 
of obedience, 142. 

Hair, treatment of superfluous, 
76 ; use of, 'j'j ; attire takes 
place of, 78 ; treatment for 
restoring, 78 ; paraffin for, 79 
colour of, 80-1 ; restorers, 81-2 
washing, 82, 85 ; brushing, 82 
singeing, 83; 'waving,' 84 
effect of hot irons on, 84 
cleanliness essential to, 85. 



Hair-pads, 84. 

Hair-pins, 84. 

Haller, his experiment ' with 
ambergris, 124. 

Hammer-throwing, 46. 

Handkerchiefs, condemnation of, 
127. 

Hands, cold, loi ; clammy, 102. 

Hay fever, 127. 

Head-gear, men's, 60 ; destructive 
to hair, 79, 80 ; heat experi- 
ments regarding, 79-80. 

Heart, how revived, 2 ; its work- 
ing system, 13, 114, 

disease, insomnia due to, 6. 

Heatj insomnia due to, 6. 

Hedley, Dr., on bottle-feeding of 
children, 89, 

Herodicus, 51. 

Hippocrates, 51. 

Hockey, 46. 

Holmes, Oliver Wendell, 5, 71. 

Homer, 51. 

Hunger, deceptiveness of, 39. 

Hydra, 137. 

Hyperidrosis, 99, 102. 

Hyslop, Dr., his views on audi- 
tory perversions, 117, 

Hysteria, as affecting sleep, 11. 

IMBERT, Prof., 82. 

Indian clubs, 47. 

Infants, amount of sleep necessary 
for, 9. 

Insanity, relation of noises to, 
117-18. 

Insomnia, resulting from over- 
exertion, 5, 6; other causes of, 
6, 10 ; caused by noises, 120. 

Instincts, comparison of, with 
habit, 142, 143. 

Iodine, effect of skin application, 
22. 

Japan, value placed upon singing 
in, 46 ; use of paper handker- 
chiefs in, 127. 

Jaundice, in, 112. 

Joints, protection necessary for, 
58 ; dependent for heat on their 
surroundings, loi. 

Jumping, 46. 



INDEX 



149 



Kidneys, disease of, oculist often 

discovers, iii. 
Kitchener, Earl, his powers of 

sleep, II. 
Kyphosis, 131. 

Law of Dissolution, i. 

Lead-poisoning, facial paints as 
cause of, 75. 

Lewis, Bevan, on change of occu- 
pation, 10, 

Liebermeister, 23. 

Ligaments, man's dependence on, 
129, 130. 

Light, necessity of, to full life, 104, 
107, 108. 

Lip, cancer of, how caused, 76. 

Locomotor ataxia, revealed by the 
eyes, iii. 

London, children's eyesight tests 
made in, 112. 

Loofah, 24. 

Lunula, 103. 

Lupus, cure of, 104. 

Magnesia, carbonate of, 74. 

Massage, Hippocrates on, 51 ; a 
ceremonial with certain savages, 
52; its function, 52; 'anatripsis' 
(rubbing up), 52 ; requires ma- 
nipulative skill, 53 ; importance 
of, in France, 53 ; in Germany, 
53; its action explained, 53 ; a 
beautifier, 54 ; facial, 72 ; re- 
moves ' double ' chin, 76 ; for 
writer's cramp, 133. 

Mastication, importance of, 94. 

Mattress, hair, commended, 16-17. 

Meat, avoidance of, 73. 

Metchnikoff, 49, 81, 84. 

Milk, use of, 73. 

Mists, impossibility of avoiding, 
108. 

Moles, treatment of, 76. 

Moustache, disadvantages of a, 
86. 

Movements, importance of, 45 ; 
the basis of conduct, 137. 

Nails, care of, 103 ; effect of ill- 
ness on, 103. 
Napoleon, his need of sleep, 11. 



Nervous breakdown, as effect of 
too early rising, 10. 

Neurasthenia, value of tea in, 9 ; 
the result of fatigue, 51 ; dental 
caries responsible for, 87. 

Newton, Sir Isaac, 104. 

Nordau, Degeneration, 107. 

Nose, organisms present in mucous 
membrane of, 30 ; situation of 
nerves of smell in, 124 ; its fail- 
ure to reveal certain diseases, 
125 ; breathing through, 122, 
126 ; blowing, 126 ; hay fever 
affecting, 127; asymmetry of, 
132. 

/Datmeal, fine, as tooth powder, 
67 ; as substitute for soap, 68. 

Oil, use of, for anointing the body, 
69-70. 

olive, use of, 72, 82, 116. 

castor, use of, for foreign 

body in eye, 116. 

Olympic Games, 40. 

Opium, poisoning by, revealed by 
the eyes, 11 1. 

Ornaments, condemnation of, in 
bedrooms, 15. 

Orris, 74. 

Overalls, desirability of, for work- 
men, 64. 

Oxygen, carried to brain cells, 3. 

Ozone, not a substitute for light, 
108 ; baths, 109 ; its value, 109, 
125. 

' Panama,' advantage of, over 
other head-gear, 60, 80. 

Paraffin, use of, for hair, 79, 82. 

Paralysis, general, revealed by the 
eyes, iii. 

Perspiration, 21, 22, 24. 

Philadelphia, children's eyesight 
tests made in, 112. 

Phthisis. See Tuberculosis. 

Pictures, condemnation of, in bed- 
rooms, 15. 

Pipe, danger of sharp edge on, 76. 

Platen, his investigations on sun 
rays, 106. 

Pockets, hygienic dangers of, 61. 

Pomades, 74. 



150 



THE CARE OF THE BODY 



Pope, quoted, 84. 

Position, human activity founded 
on capability of changing, 36 ; 
unborn child's, 128 ; effect of 
'sitting' on, 128-9; children 
should change, 132; natural, 
133 ; Eastern women's good, 
134 ; definition of, 135. 

Powders, action of, 74. 

Practice, habit the result of, 42 ; 
value of, 43. 

Quinine, antiseptic, value of, for 
colds, 30. 

Radishes, benefit of, to teeth, 

94- 

Radium, value of, in minute quan- 
tities, 28. 

Rag dolls, danger of, 64. 

Rain-water, softness of, 67. 

Reaction, cold bath causing de- 
sired, 20, 21 ; need of friction 
to promote, 25 ; caused speedily 
by shower bath, 25. 

Reflex action, club-swinging feats 
explained by, 6 ; use of, to 
children, 141. 

arc, 137, 138. 

Rheumatism, loi. 

Ringworm, 67. 

Rose, Mr., his suggestion as to 
warm douching for children, 27. 

Rouge, 7+. 

Rowing, 46. 

Running, importance of, 36 ; 
action of, explained, 96. 

Savill, Dr., his view of dental 

caries, 87. 
Scent, 127. 
Schofield, Dr., 18. 
Sea-sickness, cause of, 123. 
Shampoo, dry, 83. 
Shaving, effect of, on complexion, 

86. 
Sheets, use of absorbent, 17. 
Singeing, 83. 
Singing, 46. 
Sitting, dangers of too much, 128, 

130, 132. 



Skating, 46. 

Skin, absorption by, 22, 23 ; Lie- 
bermeister's calculation of heat 
loss, 23 ; effect on, of walking, 
37 ; effect of diseases on, 65 ; 
its sensitiveness, 65-6 ; ' epi- 
dermis ' not, 66 ; how to bene- 
fit, 67 ; -rash, 67 ; influence of 
water on, 67, and see Bath and 
Bathing ; effect of soap on, 
67-8 ; elasticity of, desirable, 
72 ; pure oils beneficial to dry, 

74- 

Sleep, proximate cause of, i ; 
time for rebuilding worn-out 
cells, I ; parts of body not need- 
ing, 2 ; effect of, on brain cells, 
3 ; the touchstone of health, 6 ; 
amount of, necessary for infants, 
9 ; for adults, 9, 11 ; for boys, 
10, II ; Sir George Darwin on, 
10 ; want of, not compensated 
for by exercise, 10 ; character- 
istic of normal, 10 ; neurotic, 
10 ; intensity of, 10 ; at what 
periods most essential, 11 ; effect 
of hysteria on, 11, 12 ; the 
period of growth, 11 ; examples ^ 
of prolonged, 12 ; physicians' J 
views on prolonged, 12 ; con- ^ 
tinuous, a modern habit, 12 ; 
best time for commencement of, 
12 ; how to induce, 18 ; faulty 
position prevents, 18 ; not usu- 
ally attainable on back, 19 ; as 
a food, 19 ; for children, 34. 

Smell, connection of, with brain, 
125 ; as protective faculty, 125 ; 
as incentive to appetite, 126. 

Sneezing, effect of, 126. 

Snuff, use of, 126. 

Soap, effect of, on skin, 67 ; choice 
of, 68; cocoanut, 69; scented 
and medicated, 69 ; use of 
superfatted, 85 ; the mainstay 
of best tooth powders, 92 ; use 
of, for toothache, 94. 

Somnambulism, 5. 

Speech, influenceof brain on, 131. 

Sponges, 24. 

Staleness, 42. 

Stapedius muscle, 119, 120. 



INDEX 



I5X 



Steam, effect of, on face, 72. 

Step-dancing, 46. 

Stitch, cause of, 47. 

Strain, insomnia due to, 5, 6 ; as 

effect of too early rising, 10; 

tends to devitalize arteries, 49 ; 

prevention of, 50. 
Stuffiness, insomnia due to, 6. 
Styrians, wonderful complexions 

of, 75- 
Suggestion, value of, 18. 
Sunburn, 75, 106. 
Swimming, 46, 

Tea, or lack of, insomnia due to, 
6 ; value of, to neurasthenics, 9 ; 
cerebral action of, 51. 

Teeth, bad, a source of illness, 
87 ; children's, 88 ; milk, 90 ; 
decay in children's, 90 ; number 
of, in child's mouth, 90-1 ; 
enamel of, 91 ; should be clear 
of food and tartar, 92 ; clean- 
ing, 92 ; gold stoppings for, 93 ; 
false, 93 ; tartar forming on, 
93 ; relations of opposing, 93 ; 
dropping out of, 93 ; soft feed- 
ing destructive to, 94. 

Teething, 89-90. 

Temperature, body, 55 ; inside 
head-gear, experiments with, 
79-80. 

Tobacco, bhndness caused by, 

115- 
'Tone,' want of, 129-30. 
Toothache, use of soap for, 94. 
Tooth-brushes, 92-3. 
Tooth-powders, 92. 
Training, importance of, 40; folly 

of modern ideas of, 40, 41 ; 

diet used by Greeks in, 41 ; 

staleness in, 42 ; American 

methods of, 48. 
Training-off, 42. 
Transformations, 84. 
Trappists, period of sleep allowed 

by, 12. 
Tuberculosis, bacillus of, effect of 

ventilation on, 14 ; dies on 

exposure to sunlight, 16, 104, 



107 ; due to man's folly, 108 ; 
revealed by the eyes, iii ; not 
revealed by the nose, 125. 
Turpentine, effect of skin applica- 
tion, 22. 

Ullmann, Prof., 82. 

Vegetables, advantage of, as a 

diet, 73. 
Veldes, sun baths at, 106. 
Ventilation, 13-15, 16. 
Visual cells, over-use of, as cause 

of dreams, 7. 

Waistcoats, unsuitability of, 
/ 60. 

Walker, Norman, on soaps, 69. 
Walking, importance of, 36, 37, 

38, 47 ; action of, explained, 

96. 
Walls, necessity for washing, 15 ; 

colour of, 16. 
Warmth, value of, to muscles and 

nerves, 43 ; Galen's advice as 

to, 44. 
Warts, treatment of, 75. 
Weight-lifting, 38, 46. 
Windows, desirability of open, 

13. 14, IS- 
Winking, 138. 
Women, amount of sleep needed 

by, 11; not athletes, 35, 46-7; 

their clothes criticized, 63 ; 

should not brush hair with 

force, 83 ; baldness amongst, 

84 ; use of comb by, 85 ; effects 

of perpetual sitting in, 130; 

good poise of Eastern, 134. 
Wrinkles, avoidance of, 71, 72 ; 

origin of, 72. 
Wundt, his theory of winking, 

138. 
Wyllie, Prof., 12. 

X-RAYS, 106; efficacy of, in 
recovering pigment of hair, 82. 

Zinc, oxide of, 74. 



Printed by T. and A. Constable, Printers to His Majesty 
at the Edinburgh University Press 



University of Toronto 
library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 

Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



