COOK BOOK 




The California National Bank of Sacramento, Cal. 

Capital and Surplus.. .$1,250,000.00 

The California Savings Bank 

Capital and Surplus... ...$140,000 00 

Both Banks under same management. 



GEO. W. PELTIER, Vice-President 
FRED. W. KIESEL, Cashier 
FRED. L. MARTIN, Asst. Cashier 



OFFICERS 

W. E. GERBER, President 



GEO. A. WHITE, Vice-President 
EGBERT A. BROWN, Asst. Cashier 
J. I. BRUNSCHWILER, Asst. Cashier 





THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 
OF CALIFORNIA 

LOS ANGELES 



GIFT OF 
FRIENDS OF THE LIBRARY 

In memory of 

Marcus Grraham 



COOK BOOK 



"A book is like a nut, 
Its worth depends, 
Not on its covering, 
But on the contents." 



TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



4 teaspooufuls of liquid equal 1 tablespoon. 
4 tablespoonfuls of liquid equal % cup or % gill. 
% cup equals 1 gill. 
2 gills equal 1 cup. 
2 cups equal 1 pint. 
2 pints (4 cups) equal 1 quart. 
4 cups of flour equal 1 pound or 1 quart. 
2 cups of butter, solid, equal % pound, 4 ounces. 
2 cups of granulated sugar equal 1 pound. 
2y 2 cups of powdered sugar equal 1 pound. 
1 pint of milk or water equals 1 pound. 

1 pint of chopped meat equals 1 pound. 
10 eggs, shelled, equal 1 pound. 

8 eggs with shells equal 1 pound. 

2 tablespoons of butter equal 1 ounce. 

2 tablespoons of granulated sugar equal 1 ounce. 

4 tablespoons of Globe A-l flour equal 1 ounce. 

4 tablespoons of coffee equal 1 ounce. 

1 tablespoon of liquid equals Bounce. 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter equal 2 ounces or *4 cup. 

Always sift Globe A-l flour before measuring. 

All measurements are level, unless otherwise stated in recipe. 



The ladies are earnestly requested to patronize the business men 
whose advertisements appear in this book. They are the best in their 
line in the city, and without their assistance this book could not have been 
published. Kindly mention the cook-book when answering advertisements. 

1 



TO SERVE FIFTY PEOPLE 



Coffee One and one-half pounds makes three gallons. Two and one- 
half gallons for black coffee after dinner cups. 

Chocolate One pound makes two gallons (25 to 30 cups to a gallon). 

When both tea and coffee are served: Tea, one gallon; coffee, one and 
one-talf gallons; loaf sugar for same, two pounds. 

Whipped cream Two quarts (each quart yielding 25 spoonfuls). 

Lemonade or fruit punch Two and one-half gallons. 

Frappe or sherbet Two to three gallons. 

Bouillon Hot, two and one-half gallons; jellied, two and one-fourth 
gallons. 

Ice cream Two and one-half gallons. 

Ices One and one-half gallons to serve in sherbet glasses. 

Cakes, loaf or layer Two to four. 

Wafers Five boxes. 

Bon bons Three and one-half pounds. 

Salted nuts Three to four pounds. (One-half pound blanched almonds 
makes 24 dessert spoons, which is equal to two and one-fourth pounds.) 

Berries Seven to ten quarts; sugar for same, two pounds. 

Raw oysters Two hundred (four to each person). 

Large oysters in coquilles Seven and one-half quarts. 

Ham One small or one-half large one. 

Chicken or turkey, dressed, but uncooked Twenty-five pounds. 

Salad One and two-thirds gallons. 

Chicken salad Seven pounds (to one quart salad, four pounds chicken). 

Lobster salad Two lobsters to one quart salad. 

Potato chips Four pounds. 

Olives To one quart bottle from 200 to 210 olives. 

Rolls Six dozen; butter for same, one pound. 

Sandwiches Three to six loaves. (One sandwich loaf cuts 24 slices.) 

Butter Two pounds for six loaves bread. (Each loaf requires one 
cup of butter and paste; of other fillings, one pint.) 

Meat for croquettes Three quarts. 

Mixture for timbales or patties Two quarts. 

Fruit jelly Five quarts. 

Molded spices or other jelly Seven quarts (to one quart six or eight 
portions). 




National Bank of D. 0. Mills & Co. 



ESTABLISHED 1850 

The Oldest Bank West of The Rockies 

We invite inspection of our Safe Deposit 
Vaults. You can safeguard your valu- 
ables with us at a triffling cost. 

BOXES $4.00 A YEAR 



APPETIZERS 

'To mould mankind at will 
And shape their acts, 

First dine them well and 
They will become as wax. 



OYSTER COCKTAIL SAUCE. 

Seven teaspoons each of prepared horseradish, tomato catsup and 
vinegar; ten teaspoons lemon juice, one teaspoon tobasco sauce; salt and 
pepper if you wish, and enough of oyster juice to make twelve glasses. 
Margaret G. Korer. 



OYSTER COCKTAIL. 

One pint California oysters and juice, eight drops tobasco sauce, ten 
drops Worcester sauce, two tablespoonfuls tomato catsup, juice of four 
limes; salt and pepper to taste. Myra P. Miller. 



CRAB FLAKE COCKTAIL. 

Mix three tablespoons tomato catsup, two tablespoons horseradish, the 
juice of one lemon, two tablespoons vinegar, two tablespoons minced 
pin entoes, two tablespoons green pepper minced fine, salt, pepper and 
paprika; add to one-half pound crab meat. This recipe is sufficient for 
five or six persons. Mrs. Clarence Crowell. 



COCKTAIL DRESSING (Crab, Shrimp, Lobster). 

One pint bottle Heintz chili, one cup mayonnaise, made of Ehmann 
Olive Oil, one-half cup cream. Mix these three together and this amount 
will serve ten people. Jane Barry. 



COCKTAIL DRESSING. 

To one bottle Heintz chili sauce add one-third or one-half bottle 
tomato catsup; season with lemon juice and beat in four tablespoons, or 
more if you prefer, of heavy mayonnaise, made of Ehmann Olive Oil; put 
in a small pinch of soda and add one-half cup of heavy cream, either 
whipped or plain. This dressing can be used for artichoke hearts, crab, 
shrimp or chicken. Margaret G. Korer. 



STRAWBERRY COCKTAIL. 

Mash one quart berries, add juice of one lemon and one orange, one 
cup sugar, four cups water; let stand for two hours, strain through jelly 
bag and put on ice until very cold. Serve in tall glasses with three berries 
sliced on top of each serving. Jane Barry. 



SOUPS 

"Will't please you taste of what is here?" 

BROWN BEAN SOUP. 

Boil brown beans with some celery and onions; press through colander 
and dilute with either milk or water; add a little allspice and cloves, also 
sherry. Serve with ground hard-boiled eggs. E. K. 



ONION CREAM SOUP. 

Peel and cut into slices one large potato, one large onion: brown in 
tablespoon of butter; when brown add one pint of milk and allow to 
simmer till tender; add salt and pepper and rub through colander; return 
to fire and add beaten yolk of one egg. Serve with croutons. E. K. 



PEA SOUP. 

Take can of peas, beat with salt, pepper and two tablespoons sugar; 
wash and strain into quart of milk; rub together one table spoonful of 
butter, one of Globe A-l flour; add to soup, cook till thickened. Serve 
with croutons. Mrs. F. H. 



GREEN PEA SOUP. 

One pint of shelled peas, one pint of milk, two tablespoons of butter, 
two quarts of water, two teaspoons of salt, one-half teaspoon of pepper, 
one tablespoon Globe A-l flour; cook peas in boiling water until tender, 
rub through sieve with wooden spoon, put back in saucepan, and liquids, 
rub Globe A-l flour and butter, cook two or three minutes, add Globe A-l 
flour and butter, pepper and salt. N. C. 



POTATO SOUP. 

Boil five large potatoes with fifteen cents worth of salt pork and one 
large onion in two quarts of water. Remove potatoes and put through 
ricer; return to water in which potatoes were boiled, add milk, butter, 
pepper and salt. A. Kirk. 



CORN CHOWDER. 

Fry six slices of salt pork; peel and dice six medium potatoes, slice 
two onions; add fried pork, cover with water and boil until potatoes are 
done, then add one can of corn, one pint of milk, as it is desired; let boil 
up once. Serve with round crackers. A. K. 



CREAM OF CELERY. 

One pint of milk, a tablespoonful of Globe A-l flour, one of butter, 
a head of celery, a large slice of onion and a small piece of mace; boil 
celery in a pint of water thirty-five minutes; boil mace, onion and milk 
together; mix Globe A-l flour with two tablespoonfuls of cold milk and 
add to boiling milk; cook ten minutes; mash celery in the water in which 
it has been cooked and stir into boiling milk; add butter, and season with 
salt and pepper to taste. Strain and serve immediately. The flavor is 
improved by adding a cupful of whipped cream when the soup is in the 
toureen. J. W. W. 



TOMATO SOUP. 

One can tomatoes, strain, put on stove with equal amount of milk 
or one quart of stock, and one pint of tomatoes, four cloves, one bay 
leaf, two sprays parsley, one tablespoon butter, two teaspoons salt, one 
tablespoon Globe A-l flour; first cook onion, cloves and parsley for a 
minute in butter in a separate pan, stir in Globe A-l flour off the stove, 
and strain tomatoes; let boil, add butter and Globe A-l flour, a tablespoon 
grated cheese, two tablespoons sherry; if not creamy enough, add cracker 
crumbs rolled very fine. N. C. 



TOMATO SOUP. 

One can Campbell's tomato soup, fill the empty can with boiling 
water, add to tomato, then let come to a boil; add one tablespoon of 
cornstarch, a teaspoon sugar, one-half teaspoon salt, dash of red pepper, 
then add a pinch of soda, stir thoroughly and add a cup of cream and a 
cup of milk; just before serving add a lump of butter. This amount will 
serve six or eight people. Gertrude B. Allardt. 



CRAB SOUP. 

One pint of cream, one quart of milk, one crab, one teaspoon 
Globe A-l flour, large piece of butter; put milk and cream to heat; pre- 
pare crab, picking into small pieces; when milk boils, rub Globe A-l flour 
and butter together, add to milk and cream, then add crab; salt and 
pepper to taste. Gertrude B. Allardt. 



CREAM CORN SOUP. 

One can corn put through sieve, one quart milk, salt, pepper and large 
piece butter; boil till it foams up well, take out one spoonful of corn 
before it is strained and add to soup. Mrs. E. C. Biegle. 



MARROW DUMPLINGS FOR SOUP. 

Marrow from a tree crest soup bone, two thick slices of bread soaked 
in water and water pressed out, two crackers rolled very fine. Mash 
marrow until like butter, mix bread, rolled crackers and marrow together, 
add two small eggs and stir until very fine; season with salt and nutmeg. 
Put flour in hand and take a teaspoon of dough and roll into balls. Put 
these dumplings into strained, boiling soup and boil from five to ten 
minutes. As soon as trey raise to the top they are done. Mrs. H. A. 
Heilbron. 



Just a Hint. 

A slice of apple, pear or cantaloup is an improvement to any meat, 
or vegetable soup, adjding a flavor that can be procured in no other way. 
K. M. H. 



"Master, I marvel how the fishes 'live in the sea?'" 

"Why, as men do on land; the great ones eat up the little ones." 



DEVILED LOBSTER. 

One can lobster, two tablespoons Globe A-l flour, two tablespoons 
butter, one teaspoon mixed mustard, one pint milk, one onion, crumbs, 
cayenne and salt; beat Globe A-l flour, butter and seasoning together; 
stir into boiling milk, add chopped lobster and cook two minutes; put into 
baking dish, cover with crumbs and brown in oven. Mae A. Thompson. 



The name 




722 K Street 



on your 

Photograph 

Means 

Quality and a satisfied 
customer 



DEVILED CRAB. 

Pick and mince crab; one cup milk, two spoonfuls Globe A-l flour 
cooked smooth, two table spoonfuls butter, one small mustard spoonful 
mustard; stir in two table spoonfuls bread crumbs, one-half lemon juice; 
salt and pepper to taste; add yolk of two eggs, hard boiled, cropped fine; 
put in shell, cover with bits of butter, and bake. Myra P. Miller. 



CREOLE OF CRAB. 

Four green peppers, six small green onions, chop fine; add butter the 
size of an egg, and salt and pepper to taste; boil ten minutes, then add 
one-half can tomatoes and boil until all is well dissolved; add one-half 
pint of cream, mix with one tablespoonful of Globe A-l flour and let 
come to a boil; pour in two well picked crabs, and serve on toast. Mrs. 
Charles Gross. 



CRABS, HARD SHELL, SAUTED. 

One cup boiled crab meat; three tablespoons butter; juice of half a 
lemon; salt and paprica; after seasoning the crab meat with lemon juice, 
salt and paprica, saute in hot melted butter. 



CRAB LOUIS. 

Rub dish with garlic, then add one-half cup tomato catsup, two table- 
spoons olive oil, three tablespoons vinegar, a little paprica, one teaspoon 
salt, one Worcestershire sauce, two hard boiled eggs sliced fine; pour 
over cracked crab, properly iced, and lettuce leaves. 



OYSTER SCOLLOPED. 

Oysters, two tablespoons cracker dust or cracker crumbs, one gill 
cream, two tablespoons butter, pepper, salt; put the butter and cream into 
chafing dish; after draining, put in oysters in layers, sprinkle with 
cracker crumbs; a little seasoning to taste; cover and cook from five to 
ten minutes. 



MINCED FISH. 

One quart cold fish carefully flaked, one pint of milk or cream, one 
can of mushrooms cut in halves, two tablespoons of butter, two table- 
spoons of Globe A-l flour; put butter in frying pan to melt, then add milk 
or cream; stir continually until it boils; add mushrooms and liquor and 
pour this over the minced fish and mix carefully; salt and pepper to taste; 
put all in a pan and grate cheese on the top; place in an oven and let 
brown. 



SALMON SOUFFLE. 

Make thick white sauce, add one teacup rolled cracker crumbs, onion 
juice, one teaspoon chopped parsley, Worcestsrire sauce, dash of catsup, 
can of salmon, heat thoroughly, beaten yolks of two eggs, beaten whites 
folded in; cook in casserole or ramekins twenty-five minutes. 



STUFFING FOR BAKED FISH. 

One cup cracker crumbs, one teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful pepper, 
one teaspoonful chopped onion, one teaspoonful chopped parsley, one tea- 
spoonful capers, one teaspoonful pickles, one-fourth cup of melted butter. 
Cook onions, parsley in melted butter; season Paprika, Worcestershire 
sauce; stir in the rest. 



F O. CHITTENDEN, MGR 




Wholesale and Retail. Quality and Service, 

Fresh and Salt Water Fish, Poultry and Game. 

Sacramento River Salmon and Catfish Our Specialties. 

Phone: Main 454. 714 J Street, Sacramento, Cal. 




Have you tried 

Ryan's 25c 
Luncheons 

The best in the City 
Chicken every Saturday 

Ryan's 

Candy Shop 



The "Sweetheart of Sacramento" 
725 K Street Phone Main 806 

WHEN IN NEED OF 

Ice Cream just try 
RYAN'S 

It's delicious and costs no more than others 



SAUCE FOR FISH. 

Egg Sauce Boil three or four eggs hard; cut them fine and stir into 
drawn butter. If too thick, add a little cream or rich milk. 



HOLLANDAISE SAUCE FOR BAKED OR BOILED FISH. 

One cup butter, yolks of two eggs, juice of one-half lemon, one salt- 
spoon salt, one-quarter saltspoon cayenne, one-half cup boiling water. 
Rub butter to a cream in small bowl with wooden or silver spoon, add 
yolks one at a time and beat; add salt, pepper, lemon juice. Place bowl 
in a sauce pan of boiling water, stir rapidly until it thickens like boiled 
custard; pour over meat or fish. 



HALLIBUT SUFFLE. 

Boil a pint or a pound of any kind of fish (hallibut preferred), left 
overs will do. Shred or mash to a pulp; add one teaspoonful salt, dash of 
pepper, one teaspoonful onion juice. Melt a heaping tablespoohful of butter 
and to it add one tablespoonful Globe A-l flour and cook to a paste. To 
this add slowly one cup milk then the fish and two well beaten eggs. Bake 
one-half hour in buttered pan. Mrs. Nicholas H. Bath. 



OYSTER STUFFING. 

One-half a cup each of cracker and bread crumbs, one-fourth cup of 
butter, one-half pint of oysters, two tablespoonfuls lemon juice, one-half 
tablespoonful chopped parsley, oyster liquor to moisten and salt and pepper. 
Mrs. A. J. Gibson. 



CREAMED LOBSTER. 

One onion minced fine; simmer in tablespoon butter, heaping table- 
spoon Globe A-l flour added; then add cup of cream, pinch of soda in 
cream, two teaspoons catsup, one dash tobasco and one teaspoon Worces- 
tershire sauce. Chop lobster not too fine and add to sauce; put grated 
cheese on top and bake twenty minutes. 



SAUCE FOR LOBSTER CREOLE. 

One can tomatoes (Del Monte Sauce), simmer one-half hour with one 
large onion and clove of garlic minced; strain. Cook one large tablespoon 
of Globe A-l flour and butter until blended, add the tomato, and after it 
boils up add slowly one-half cup cream, one-half teaspoon each chili powder 
and Grandma's Spanish pepper, one tablespoon grated Italian cheese. You 
may add hard boiled eggs sliced, or stoned olives. Pour this over diced 
lobster and serve hot. 



LOBSTER A'LA NEWBERG. 

Split two good sized lobsters, pick meat from shells and dice; place 
in a saucepan with a good lump of butter, season with salt and red pepper 
and one-half can rmishrooms diced; cook five minutes, then add a wine 
glass of Madiera wine. Have three eggs and one-half pint of cream beaten 
together; add to the lobster and cook until it thickens. 

10 



ENTREES 

"The turnpike to people's hearts, I find 

Lies through their mouths, or I mistake mankind.' 



CHEESE SOUFFLE (Delicious). 

One cup grated cheese, one egg, one teaspoon thick cream, one- 
quarter teaspoon mustard; salt, pepper and paprika to taste. Melt cheese, 
add cream, salt, pepper and paprika; let cool; add yolk, then beaten white 
of egg. Butter ramekins and put small piece of bread in bottom of them. 
Fill with mixture three-quarters full, bake ten to fifteen minutes. E. N. P. 



CHEESE FONDU. 

Ore cup fresh bread crumbs, two cups grated cheese, one cup milk, 
spoonful soda, one-half teaspoonful salt, spoonful red pepper, one table- 
spoonful butter, two eggs. Put butter in sauce pan to heat while you beat 
the eggs light without separating them. Let these stand while you stir 
everything else into the pan, beginning with the milk. Cook this five 
minutes, stirring all the time. Put in eggs and cook three minutes more. 
Place crackers on Lot platter and pour the whole over them. E. S. 



ENGLISH MONKEY. 

One tablespoon melted butter, one cup fine stale bread crumbs, two 
cups cheese cut in small squares, one cup milk. Put all these ingredients 
into a sauce pan, stir until cheese is melted; if too thick, add more milk; 
season to taste with salt, paprika and Worcestershire; then add two well 
beaten eggs. Do not cook after eggs have been added. Serve on hot 
crackers. M. G. K. 



WELSH RARBIT. 

Quarter pound of grated cheese, one tablespoonful butter, the yolk of 
one egg well beaten with two tablespoon fuls of milk; little salt, pepper 
and mustard. Stir until melted and pour on toasted slices of bread. 
J. W. W. 



ENCHILADAS. 

Mix a stiff dough of three cups Globe A-l flour, one cup cold water 
and teaspoon salt. Roll very thin and bake on top of range in cakes size 
of pie tin. Dip each enchilada in thick Spanish sauce; then cover quickly 
with grated cheese with which a chopped onion and three chopped hard 
boiled eggs have been mixed. Roll each enchilada and place in a thick 
earthen platter in moderate oven ten minutes. C. G. 



CORN TAMALES. 

One can corn, one cup tomatoes, three-quarters cup corn meal, one 
and one-half cups milk, chopped green pepper, onion, few olives, one 
teaspoon Grandma's Spanish pepper, one teaspoon salt. Put in buttered 
baking dish and bake three-quarters or one hour. Bake slowly. B. T. W. 



CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

One cup milk, one cup cheese, grated, three eggs, one tablespoon 
Globe A-l flour, two tablespoons butter. Rub butter, flour and warm milk 
together; beat eggs in one at a time. Cook in a double boiler, add cheese, 
beat whites in and bake one-half hour in moderate oven in ramekins. 
Mrs. C. H. 

11 



ENGLISH MONKEY. 
(Serves Four Persons.) 

One cup of Eastern cheese, three-fourths cup of bread crumbs, three- 
fourths cup of milk, one teaspoon of butter, yolk of one egg. Put butter 
in the chafing dish and when melted add cheese; add bread crumbs, which 
have been soaked in milk, then add beaten yolk, flavor with salt and 
paprika. Mrs. C. H. 



TOMATO RAREBIT. 

Two tablespoons butter, two tablespoons Globe A-l flour, three-fourths 
cup thin cream, three-fourths cup steamed and strained tomatoes, pinch of 
soda, two cups finely cut cheese, two eggs sligl tly beaten, salt, mustard, 
cayenne and paprika to taste. Put butter in stew pan; when melted add 
flour, then milk. As soon as mixture thickens add tomatoes mixed with 
soda, then add cheese, eggs and seasoning. Cook until cheese is melted. 
Serve on toasted crackers. Will never get ropy. Mrs. Nicholas H. Bath. 



SHRIMP WIGGLE (Fine). 

One cup of shrimps (canned or fresh), one cup of peas (cooked), one- 
eighth teaspoon paprika, one large tablespoon Globe A-l flour, one and one- 
half cups milk, two tablespoons butter, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon 
chopped parsley. Prepare the shrimps by rinsing, draining and breaking 
in small pieces; soften the butter in pan, mix the Globe A-l flour well 
with it, then pour on gradually the milk, and as soon as the sauce thickens 
add the shrimps and peas with all the seasonings; bring to the boiling 
point and serve on buttered soda crackers. This will serve eight people. 
Mrs. C. Cunningham. 

MEATS AND POULTRY 

"There's no want of meats, sir; 
Portly and viands are prepared, 
To please all kinds of appetites." 



JELL-O WITH FOWL AND OTHER MEATS. 

As a table jelly with fowl or other meats, Lemon Jell-O is better than 
any of the commonly used jellies. It has a delicious flavor and a delightful 
cooling quality. Cherry Jell-O is also very nice as a table jelly. Full 
directions are given in the little recipe book in each Jell-O package. 



HAM ROLLS FOR SIX. 

One slice ham (raw) minced fine, parsley chopped fine, one tablespoon 
nuts chopped fine, white of one egg beaten stiff; mix it all together, add 
seasoning. Turn in one cup of whipped cream the last thing; mould. Dip 
in egg and cracker crumbs and fry in deep fat. Serve with sliced cucum- 
ber and mayonnaise. 



BAKED HAM. 

Soak ham one hour in cold water. Let come to a boil in same water, 
then pour off water and add boiling water until ham is covered. Boil 
twenty minutes for each pound. Take out, put in cold water and peel. 
Put in baking pan, cover with glass of currant jelly and baste with two 
glasses of sherry wine for twenty minutes. Sprinkle browned bread crumbs 
over ham and dots of currant jelly. 



When Cooking is off 
Your Mind 

Call in at OUR STORE and let us show you our 
up-to-date lines of Decorating Wall Papers Cre- 
tonnes, Mouldings. 



Wholesale and 



California Wall Paper Mills 

Phone Main 1617 815 Jay St. Sacramento, Cal. 



Compliments of 

The Schaw-Batcher Co. 



Taylor's 
Art China Store 

PRIVATE AND CLASS LESSONS. 
White and Decorated China Firing Daily 

Louise Taylor, Instructor. 
Phone: Main 3691-J. 1016 K Street, Sacramento, Cal. 

Your Household Finances = 

Making deposits in this bank regularly to cover your household 
expenses and issuing checks to pay them, is the most sensible and 
businesslike way to conduct the business of the home. 

Make this bank the headquarters for your household 
account during 1916. 

The Fort Sutter National Bank 

630 J Street 

13 



HAM, SOUTHERN STYLE. 

Put ham on to boil, cooking slowly; when done, let cool in the water; 
when cool, remove skin, gash top with a knife, sprinkle on this two tea- 
spoons of sugar, a little dry mustard, one teaspoon celery, salt, cracker 
crumbs, wine glass of sherry, and put in over and bake a few minutes; 
garnish with parsley. K. M. H. 



BOILED HAM. 

Boil ham (or half a ham) three hours with bay leaf. Leave in water 
all night. Skin it and rub all over with sugar. Sprinkle fat part with 
bread crumbs and stick it full of cloves. Bake one-half hour; baste with 
sherry or champagne. 



SWEET BREADS. 

Parboil one and one-half pounds sweet breads, cut rather fine, chop 
together one-half can mushrooms. Put two tablespoons of butter in frying 
pan, add one onion, fry light brown. Add sweet breads and stir until 
brown. Add one small cup sherry, salt and pepper to taste. Place cover 
on pan and simmer slowly for fifteen minutes. If too wet remove cover 
and dry; if too dry add a little cream. 



POTATO CRUST FOR MEAT PIES. 

One cup potatoes mashed, two cups flour, one teaspoon salt, two tea- 
spoons yeast powder, half cup shortening, milk to make soft dough. A. K. 



CHICKEN TAMALES. 

Boil tow chickens, save liquor; chop chickens coarsely; mix with four 
hard boiled eggs and twenty-five cents worth tamale paste. To thirty 
cents worth of cooked hominy put through grinder add two raw eggs, 
melted butter, salt and pepper. Line dishes with this and fill with chicken; 
steam one hour. A. K. 



ROAST FILLET. 

Roast in hot oven; for each pound of meat allow twenty minutes; baste 
frequently, add salt and pepper while roasting. When done take out fillet, 
add one tablespoon Globe A-l flour to gravy, one can mushrooms sliced, 
small glass of sherry; pour sauce around the meat sliced one inch thick. 
Mrs. W. J. T. 



JELLIED MEAT. 

Take teal or chicken To two chickens, two onions, six cloves, six 
whole white peppers, two bay leaves, one blade of mace, four whole 
allspice, one-half cup vinegar, salt to taste, one lemon, one and one-half 
box of gelatine, two quarts water. Put chicken on to boil with salt and 
water; skim well, then add onions, cloves, etc., and boil until meat drops 
from bones; stiain, let stock get cool and remove fat; cut chicken into 
small pieces, put jelly on and bring to boil. Put meat into a dish or molds 
and pour the jelly over hot; add vinegar and lemon to jelly just before 
pouring over meat. Mrs. A. M. Stevenson. 

14 



Dunbar & Son 

Dealers in 
WOOD, COKE, COAL, CHARCOAL AND KINDLING. 

Main Office, 806 I Street. Phone: Main 3217-R. 

Branch Yard, 1804 Twenty-seventh. Phone: Cap. 493-J. 

Sacramento, Cal. 



Vacuum Cleaner 

With operator (white man). Prices same as the Japs charge. 
Which will you patronize? 

Ring up "RIVETT" 

Phone: Main 106. 

Clark's Ice Cream 

Ice Cream, Ice and Groceries. 

Phone: Main 1648-J. Thirty-third and M Streets. 

Sacramento, Cal. 

Peoples' 
Wet Wash Laundry 

W. H. VOGT, Prop. 
FAMILY WASH 50c A SACK. DRY WASH 75c A SACK. 

First Class Work. 
Phone : Main 2036- Y. 2416 Ninth Street. 



15 



POT ROAST. 

For $1 reast Flour, salt and pepper roast well; slice one large onion 
a-"d brown with one tablespoon of Globe A-l flour in butter; use small pan. 
In deep pot place four tablespoons of butter and same amount of lard; 
w v en ]^ot put roast in and brown on each side; add browned onion, one 
soared carrot, one celery root cut in four pieces; half cover the roast 
with water and let it steam two and one-half hours. H. A. H. 



CHICKEN ASPARAGUS. 

Boil one chicken tender and cut in dice s>-ape; one can of asparagus, 
teTder parts only; make a sauce of one quart of cream, tablespoonful of 
Globe A-l flour, juice of one lemon, salt and pepper. Pour this over the 
chicken and asparagus, first having put it in individual plates; grate a 
little cheese on top and bake fifteen minutes in ramekins. Splendid for 
afternoon tea. Mrs. J. W. Stett. 



BRAIN TUMBOLIS. 

For fifteen cents worth of brains take two large slices bread soaked in 
milk, beat four eggs, add brains and bread, season with salt, pepper, pinch 
ginger, paprica and Worcestershire sauce. Steam three-quarters of an hour. 



SAUCE. 

One tablespoon butter mix with one tablespoon Globe A-l flour, add 
one-half pint cream, salt, paprica, juice of one lemon, little nutmeg; add 
two tablespoons catsup and one-half can mushrooms. Mrs. P. B. Ward. 



BRAIN TIMBALS. 

Fifteen cents worth of brains soaked in salt water and strained; two 
slices of bread soaked in milk; squeeze milk out and mix with brains; beat 
yolks of four eggs a.nd mix with bread and brains; beat whites and season 
with salt, pepper and Worcestershire sauce. Steam three-quarters of an 
hour; serve with cream sauce, season with catsup, mushrooms and oysters; 
butter tins. Mrs. C. H. 



ITALIAN DISH. 

One pound of pork sausage meat, one and one-half cup macaroni, one 
green pepper chopped, one onion chopped, six tomatoes cut. Put meat 
sausage in stew pan with a cup of water; add pepper, onion and tomatoes 
and cook one hour over a slow fire; boil macaroni in salt water; when done 
drain, put on platter and grate cheese on macaroni, then pour meat over. 
Fut on meat a little cinnamon and cloves. Mrs. W r hitman. 



"MULLIGAN." 

Take two pounds of round steak and cut into pieces two inches 
square; dredge \\ell with Globe A-l flour; cut up one large onion and 
brown it in drippings, then remove the onion and brown the steak. Put 
in sauce pan and cover with boiling water. Add one-half can of tomatoes 
and two small greeu peppers cut into small pieces, one bay leaf. Boil 
very slowly for about three hours. Season with salt, pepper, tobasco and 
\\ orcestershire sauce. Thicken if necessary. 

16 



FRIED CHICKEN SPANISH. 

Take two tender chickens and cut in small pieces; then boil in salted 
water until tender. Reserve this soup for the gravy. Beat nine eggs 
(whites and yolks separately) and add salt and pepper to taste, and a 
tablespoonful of Glote A-l flour. Roll each piece of chicken in this 
batter and fry in hot lard enough to cover. Take one onion and a clove 
of garlic (chopped fine), a little Globe A-l flour and some tomatoes; fry 
them in lard or oil, add to soup and boil until thick; pour over the 
chicken, and it is ready to serve. 



CREAMED CHICKEN. 

Two cupfuls of chopped cooked chicken, two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
one tablespoonful of Globe A-l flour, one cupful of milk, one cupful of 
cream, yolk of one egg, one tablespoonful chopped parsley, salt and pep- 
per to taste. Put butter in frying pan when it bubbles add Globe A-l 
flour and stir well. Draw to one side of stove and add milk and cream 
and egg and seasoning. Lastly add chicken. 



BONELESS BIRDS. 

Take round steak of medium thickness, cut into strips four inches 
long and two inches wide. Lay on each strip a thin slice of bacon and 
slices of onion. Season with pepper and salt. Roll and pin together 
with two tooth picks. Have ready a frying pan with drippings or olive 
oil very hot. Place birds in this and fry a golden brown. Place in kettle. 
Covier with boiling water and simmer for one and one-half hours. Before 
removing, thicken the gravy. Salt and pepper to taste, and add a few 
olives to the gravy if liked. 



OYSTER STUFFING. 

Ore pint oysters, chopped fine, one cup powdered cracker crumbs; 
one-1 alf teaspoonful onion juice one spoonful butter; pepper, salt; one 
teaspoonful chopped parsley. 



ROAST GOOSE STUFFING. 

Six potatoes, boiled, pared, mashed fine and light; one tablespoonful 
salt; one teaspoonful pepper; one spoonful sage; two tablespoonsful onion 
juice; two tablesponfuls butter. Truss and dredge well with salt, pepper 
and Globe A-l flour. 



SAUCE FOR MACARONI. 

Brown three pounds beef in hot lard; add one glass claret, one can 
tomatoes, one carrot (sliced), one onion (sliced), one bay leaf, small sprig 
rosemary, handful mushrooms, small clove of garlic, pinch of allspice, 
one cup of water. Cook slowly one-half day; strain and thicken with 
blended butter and Globe A-l flour (tablespoonful Globe A-l flour and 
butter size of egg). 

17 



CURRY, FROM ORIGINAL INDIA RECEIPT. 

4 

Procure lamb or young mutton from shoulder. Cut in pieces about 
twice as thick as the usual chop and then cut in pieces about two inches. 
Heat beef drippings boiling hot in thick pot or frying pan. Put in the 
meat and brown it. Then to twenty-five cents worth of meat take one 
tablespoon of curry powder, sprinkle over meat while it is browning, 
letting it come in contact with every part. Care must be taken not to 
scorch the curry or flavor will be spoiled. Add water to cover, one green 
onion, one fried onion, a carrot cut in thick slices, a little parsley, and 
potatoes on top. Salt to taste. AlloAv to cook two hours. Before serving 
remove potatoes and thicken with Globe A-l flour. Serve boiled rice with 
this dish. K. M. H. 



REAL ENGLISH CURRIE. 

Stew twenty-five cents worth of lamb twenty minutes. Brown two 
onions and two apples (after you have chopped them fine) in a little 
bacon grease, add a pinch of salt, two dessertspoonfuls of currie; then 
mix it all in the lamb stew, cook for two hours; just before serving add 
two tablespoonfuls of Globe A-l flour and a little lemon juice. Serve 
with rice. 



GYPSY STEW. 

One and one-half pounds round steak or veal, ground; one bunch 
celery; boiling water to cover, and stew until tender; add salt and pepper 
to taste; three-quarters cup of grated cheese; one-half cup English wal- 
nuts; one cup milk, and thicken with two pounds Globe A-l flour. Gar- 
nish with toast points. 



CHARTREUSE OF MUTTON. 

Take two quarts of boiling water, one cup of rice and two teaspoon- 
fuls salt and cook until done. Now mix two cups cold cooked chopped 
mutton, two eggs slightly beaten, two teaspoonfuls of finely chopped 
parsley, one teaspoonful lemon juice, one teaspoonful of onion juice, one 
fourth teaspoonful of salt and black and red pepper. Butter mold, line 
bottom and sides with rice, fill in seasoned meat, cover with rice, tie on 
buttered paper and steam forty minutes. When done turn out on a 
platter and serve with tomato sauce. Left overs of any kind of meat can 
be used in the same way. 



YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

(Serve with Hot Roast Beef English Style.) 

Three eggs, broken into two cups of Globe A-l flour, into which two 
teaspoons of baking powder and one teaspoon of salt have been sifted. 
Beat into these ingredients one pint of milk, making a smooth batter, 
about the consistency of rich cream. Remove the roast from pan, and, 
after draining off most of the drippings, pour in tl'e batter. Raise meat 
on a skeleton stand so that it rests above, but not on the batter, and the 
drippings from tl:e meat can fall on the pudding. Cook in moderate oven 
about one-half hour, and serve in slices with the meat. K. M. H. 



Just a Hint. 

When browning a pot roast add a tablespoon of sugar to the fat. It 
produces a beautiful brown ai.d a delicious flavor. K. M. H. 

18 



lEmmrk & iwtran (Ho. 

Factory Branch. 

Paints, Brushes, Pratt & Lambert's Vitralite Varnish and Enamel, 

Wall Paper, Oils. 

815 Jay Street 

JACK V..CXNEIL, Manager. 
Phone: Main 1617. Sacramento, Cal. 



REAL ESTATE AND INSURANCE. 
605 J Street. 



Cleanliness is next to godliness. 
Let us take care of your Laundry. 

^arramntin 

Front and O Streets. Phone: Main 104. 

Phone: Capital 18. Lumber and Mill Work. 

OJak Park 
IGmttfor atth billing OIo. 

Sand, Rock, Lime, Plaster, Cement, Doors, Windows, Etc. 
Office and Yard Park Ave., Bet. 35th and 36th. 



19 



SALAD AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

"To make a perfect salad there must be a spendthrift for oil, a miser 
for vinegar, a wise mind for salt and a madcap to stir the ingredients up 
and mix well together." 

(For all purposes we recommend Ehmann Olive Oil, manufactured by 
the Ehmann Olive Co., Oroville, California.) 



FRUIT SALAD DRESSING. 

One cup oil, one and one-half cups of powdered sugar, one-half tea- 
spoonfuls of paprika, pinch of salt, juice of one and one-half lemons; mix 
in order given. Serve with orange, grapefruit, pineapple or banana. 



EXCELLENT SALAD DRESSING. 

One cup of sugar, five level teaspoonsful salt, four level teaspoonsful 
mustard, one level teaspoonful white pepper; mix dry until smooth; add 
four cups of sour cream, two cups of vinegar, and cook in double boiler 
until creamy, then put in glasses with covers to them and put in cool 
place; will keep for several months. 



BELL PEPPERS STUFFED WITH CRAB. 

Cut a slice from stem end of pepper, remove seeds and place the 
peppers in cold water; shred the meat of one crab very fine, mix it 
thoroughly with mayonnaise dressing made of Ehmann olive oil; season 
nicely, and stuff the peppers with it; put them on the ice until ready to 
serve. They should be prepared some time before needed. When ready to 
serve, place each pepper on a crisp leaf of lettuce. 



CELERY AND PIMENTO SALAD. 

One envelope gelatine soaked in one-half cup of water; when dissolved, 
add pint of boiling water; one-half cup lemon juice and one-half cup 
sugar; when cold and beginning to mould, add one-third can pimentos and 
one and one-half cups celery, doffed very fine, and salt to taste. Put in 
individual molds and serve on lettuce leaves. 



CHEESE SALAD. 

One-half cup cream, one-fourth cup olives or pimentos cut fine, one 
cup grated eastern cream cheese, two tablespoons gelatine dissolved in 
one-half cup boiling water, and allow to cool a little red pepper, mustard 
and salt to taste; whip cream to fluff stage; stir in cheese and gelatine 
and olives; pour in molds and set on ice to harden. Serve on lettuce 
leaves with mayonnaise dressing made of Ehmann olive oil. 



CARROT SALAD. 

Twelve small carrots grated, two small onions grated, two hard 
boiled eggs chopped, five pieces tender celery (small) ; a little parsley, 
mayonnaise dressing made of Ehmann olive oil, paprica, salt; garnish. 

20 




YOU ARE CORDIALLY INVITED by the FISK 
RUBBER COMPANY to use their FREE service 
station at Nos. 1310-12 K Street, where competent 
employees are waiting to relieve you of all tire 
trouble, when tires annoy, and who will do so court- 
eously, promptly and gladly. 





To the lady who drives her own car we extend a 
special invitation to take advantage of our Service 
Station. We want you to drive in at any time and 
let our corps of courteous employees serve you. Our 
service is FREE and is gladly given. 



If You Carry 

Fisk Tires 

Your customers will regard you as 

A Live Dealer 



21 



OYSTER SALAD. 

Drain oysters; to the juice of one dozen oysters add three table- 
spoonsful vinegar, good dash of pepper, small tablespoonful salt; let 
come to a boil, drop oysters and let remain until heated through, then 
drain and put on ice. When preparing for the salad cut them in halves 
or quarters (according to size of oyster) and mix with mayonnaise 
dressing made of Ehmann olive oil and the chopped whites of some hard- 
boiled eggs. Lay this upon lettuce leaves, and on the top put the yolks 
of the hard-boiled eggs, first putting them through a "potato-ricer." 



RUSSIAN SALAD DRESSING. 

Two cups of stiff mayonnaise made of Ehmann olive oil, one cup 
Heintz chili sauce, three pimentos chopped fine; mix together and pour 
over crisp lettuce leaves. 



FRUIT SALAD DRESSING. 

Yolk.s of five eggs, five tablespoons lemon juice, one tablespoon sugar, 
one-half cup melted butter, one teaspoon of salt, a drop of tobasco sauce; 
cook in double boiler and then serve with whipped cream. 



BOLIED SALAD DRESSING. 

Three yolks of eggs, two tablespoons of butter, six tablespoons of 
vinegar, six tablespoons of cream, one tablespoon of sugar, one scant 
teaspoon of mustard, one-half teaspoon of salt; cook in double boiler; when 
it begins to thicken add the well-beaten whites of three eggs; a little 
lemon juice may be added. 



TUNA SALAD. 

Cut into dice one can of White Star Brand Tuna, add one cup of 
celery chopped fine and mix with mayonnaise dressing made of Ehmann 
olive oil. Serve with sliced tomatoes, string beans, cucumbers and lettuce. 
Add French dressing and paprika. G. S. H. 



FRUIT SALAD. 

Generous serving for eight persons: One-pound can of pineapple (cut 
small), one-half pound large write grapes, one-fourth pound marsh- 
mallows (cut small with scissors), two ounces pecan meats chopped; 
let pineapple and grapes in muslin bags. Dressing: Two yolks of eggs 
well beaten, juice of one-half large lemon, pinch of mustard and salt, 
pinch of scda; cock until thick, then add one-half cup milk; let cool 
in ice box, tten beat in one-half cup whipped cream; let stand on ice 
for a few minutes. 



TOMATO JELLY SALAD. 

One pint tomato juice, one-half box gelatine soaked for one-half hour in 
water, salt spoonful of onion juice, Worcestershire sauce, a dash of red 
pepper and salt; boil with gelatin and strain into mold; turn out on 
platter and put on top of each mold chopped olives and hard boiled 
eggs; mayonnaise made of Ehmann olive oil on top and lettuce leaves to 
garnish. 

22 



HORS D'OEUVRE. 

Scoop out lemons, add one box of sardines (French mustard), two 
hard boiled eggs, dash of tobasco sauce, mayonnaise made of Ehmann olive 
oil. Serve in lemon halves on lettuce leaves. 



SOUR CREAM SALAD DRESSING. 

One-half cup vinegar, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon ground mustard, 
three tablespoons sugar, yolks of three eggs, butter size of an egg; mix 
and cook until thick; when cold add one cup whipped cream. Mrs. P. B. 
Ward. 



CABBAGE SALAD WITH PIMENTOS. 

fc^uit,d cabbage and mix with mayonnaise made of Ehmann olive oil; 
pile lightly on a dish; put halved Fnglish walnuts over and around the 
edge put strips of pimentos. Mrs. A. J. Gilson. 



PEAR SALAD. 

Six halved pears canned or stewed, two lemons, boiled mayonnaise 
dressing made of Ehmann olive oil, lettuce, cress, one-half cupful chopped 
English walnuts. Fill the cored hollows of the pears with mayonnaise 
made of Ehmann olive oil and sprinkle with the nuts. Serve in nests of 
lettuce and cress and garnish with sliced lemon. 



ARGYLE SALAD. 

One can apricots, ten-cent box rose marsbmallow, one-half cup chopped 
pecan nuts. Dressing: Beat yolks of four eggs, four tablespoons vinegar, 
one tablespoon sugar, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon dry mustard, one 
teaspoon butter, few grains red pepper, one cup pastry cream. Boil eggs 
in double boiler and add otfer ingredients, stir well until well blended; 
when cool add whipped cream. Add marshmallows while hot. R. H. M. 



CARROT SALAD. 

Five or six medium carrots, one large apple, one small onion, one stalk 
celery. Put all through meat grinder and mix with mayonnaise made of 
Ehmann olive oil. Nut meats can be added if desired. Mrs. F. V. 



PIMENTO SALAD. 

One small can pimento, three hard boiled eggs, one green bell pepper 
(Reeded), one small onion, one stalk celery. Chop fine and mix with may- 
onnaise made of Ehmann olive oil. Mrs. F. V. 



LEMON JELLO SALAD. 

Dissolve one package of Jello, add one cup nut meats, cucumber 
pickles and olives (equal parts) finely chopped. Harden in long dish and 
slice. Serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise made of Ehmann olive oil. 
Mrs. F. V. 



ASPIE JELLY. 

This can be used for any kind of salad. One quart of water or soup 
stock, two bay leaves, four cloves, one carrot, one small bunch celery, one 
lemon, one onion, one box of Knox gelatine. To the water or soup stock 
add bay leaves, cloves, allspice, etc. Salt to taste, one-half lemon. Boil 
ten minutes and strain through cloth. Allow one lemon and gelatine to 
dissolve in one cup of cold water. To make very clear add white of two 
eggs and shells while boiling. Mrs. C. Stevenson. 

23 



VEGETABLES 

'A dish that I do love to feed upon. 



Vegetables that harmonize with certain meats are as follows: 

With Lamb or Mutton Potatoes, rice, tomatoes, onions, peas, string 
beans, spinach, asparagus, radishes, lettuce, corn, celery, mint, new 
cabbage. 

With Veal Rice, potatoes, macaroni, string beans, celery, tomatoes, 
cress, spinach, mushrooms, asparagus, peppers, tart jelly, olives, new 
cabbage, onions and peas. 

With Beef Potatoes, sweet potatoes, string beans, egg plant, spinach, 
squash, onions, turnips, raw cabbage, tomatoes, greens of all kinds, beets, 
romaine lettuce, corn, parsnips, carrots, chow-chow, celery, salsify. 
cucumbers. 

With Salt Meats Cabbage, parsnips, carrots, onions, greens, potatoes, 
sour pickles, beets. 

With Bacon and Ham Potatoes, brown rice, macaroni, peppers, eggs, 
greens of all kinds; string beans, baked beans, corn bread, johnnycake. 

With Chicken and Turkey Potatoes, rice (or croquettes), squash, 
string beans, turnips, celery, cranbeny sauce, egg plant, salad plants, 
mushrooms, asparagus, peas. 

With Game Rice, wild fruit jelly, all kinds green salads, tomatoes, 
cucumbers, radishes, entire wheat bread or rolls, ripe olives, celery, 
mushrooms. 

With Pork and Goose Onions, apples, cranberry jelly, sour pickles, 
tomatoes, cabbage, sweet potatoes, potatoes, spinach, cucumbers. 

With Fat Fish (salt or fresh) Greens, salad plants, cucumbers, 
radishes, string beans, potatoes, brown rice, sour sauces, tomatoes, onions, 
peppers. 

With Lean Fish Potatoes, croquettes, fried potatoes, tomatoes, 
broiled bacon, salad plants, asparagus, peas, creamed vegetables. 



BAKED TOMATOES. 

Remove top and enough of the tomato to leave space to fill with 
cracker crumbs to which is added butter, salt, pepper and a little grated 
onion. Bake and serve hot on slices of toast. Do not remove skin from 
tomato when preparing it. 



BAKED STUFFED BEETS 

Boil the beets until tender; plunge in cold water, then peel, scoop out 
centers, leaving shell about one-half inch thick; then stuff with minced 
beet and bread crumbs moistened with white sour sauce. Sour sauce: 
Two tablespoons butter, two tablespoons Globe A-l flour, one cup milk; 
boil well, then add two tablespoons vinegar or lemon juice. G. B. A. 



FRIED TOMATOES. 

Fry nice strips of bacon; use drippings of bacon to fry sliced tomatoes; 
do not remove the skin. Serve hot on buttered toast. H. L. O. 

24 



BAKED EGG PLANT. 

Boil about twenty minutes; take inside out, add two spoonfuls of 
cheese, two cloves garlic, one egg, two spoonfuls oil; salt; mix all these 
and then bake witn cheese and oil in pan. J. B. 



STUFFED CABBAGE. 

Cook a medium-sized cabbage about fifteen minutes, until its leaves 
can be turned back and opened up like a rose; sprinkle minced cold 
boiled ham (home boiled preferred) which has been mixed with a little 
oHve oil, between each leaf; fold leaves together again, tie in cheese 
cloth and steam from ore to two hours, according to size of cabbage. 
Serve hot or cold and slice to serve it. H. A. 



BAKED CORN SPANISH. 

Put ore can of corn into a large bowl, add one cup of milk, one 
cup of white cornmeal, two well beaten eggs. Prepare for food chopper, 
six medium-sized tomatoes (or about one pint of canned), two bell 
peppers, two or three onions (according to size), a dose of garlic if 
liked, cut very fine. Add this ground mixture to corn: One tablespoon 
"Grandma's Peppers" (ground chili), two tablespoons of olive oil, one 
large cup or more of green olives; salt and pepper to taste. Mix well 
and put in earthen baking dishes; cook in oven slowly for about an 
hour or till thoroughly cooked. Do not fill dishes to the top, for it 
swells in cooking. Very good with cold chicken. Fill two medium-sized 
dishes. This may be prepared with hamburg steak instead of the corn 
leave out the olives. It is then "Vienna Loaf." M. H. L. 



SPANISH RICE. 

Cook rice in double boiler, one cup to three or four persons; one 
tablespoon ham or bacon fat, add onion and green pepper and fry 
slightly: add four tomatoes and cook slowly until mixture is smooth; 
reason with salt, pepper and a little allspice. When dressing is done 
pour over rice and mix thoroughly before covering with grated cheese. 
B. G. W. 



COLACHI (SPANISH). 

Take two or three summer squash, the yellow crook-neck ones are 
the best; one large onion, two green peppers and three or four ripe 
tomatoes (peeled); chop fine in a bowl and season; put in a frying pan 
some good dripping, and when hot add the chopped vegetables and cook 
slowly one hour or more. C. G. 



SPANISH ONIONS. 

Take as many onions as you wish to bake; remove the hearts and put 
in a chopping bowl with a few pieces of cooked meat, one green 
pepper, salt and black pepper; chop fine and fry brown; then fill onions 
with this mixture, put a small piece of butter on each and bake; when 
done pour a sauce made from red chili peppers over all, and return to 
oven a few minutes. 

25 



STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Take firm tomatoes, cut a round place in top, remove insides and 
mix it with stale bread crumbs, onions, parsley, butter, a little pepper 
and salt and any cold meat dropped fine; fill the tomatoes and bake in 
a moderate oven; put a little butter in the pan and do not let them 
get dry. 



CORN CHOWDER. 

Try out one-half pound fat pork (salt) in pan, add one onion sliced 
rather fine; when browned add two medium-sized potatoes sliced thin, 
enough water to cover, and cook till potatoes are tender; then add one 
can corn and pint of milk; season and thicken with two pounds of corn- 
starch. 



CURRY BEANS. 

Boil one quart of beans until tender; fry one chopped onion and 
chopped apple, one grated carrot in two tablespoonsful of melted butter, 
one cup of water or stock, one teaspoonful of currie powder, one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, one-half cup of tomatoe sauce. Simmer ten minutes, drain 
beans and mix together and serve with a border of rice. Mrs. Whitman. 



SPAGHETTI. 

One tablespoon Ehmann olive oil, onion and small piece of garlic, half 
a can tomatoes, twenty cent can of mushrooms. Cook ingredients well and 
then pour over spaghetti; grate some cheese, small lumps of butter and 
bake from twenty to thirty minutes. Mrs. Nyman Smith. 



STUFFED ONIONS. 

Boil as many large onions nearly soft in milk as the number of people 
you wish to serve; when ready take out some of center and stuff with 
any kind of cold cooked meat on hand; put in pan with a little stock and 
bake in oven about thirty minutes. Serve with meat gravy. L. D. K. 



ONION PIE. 

Slice four medium sized onions and simmer until tender; add table- 
spoon of butter and one teaspoon of Globe A-l flour; season to taste; beat 
two eggs and mix altogether and bake in one crust. Mrs. F. V. 



RICE AND PIMENTOS. 

One small can pimentos, one cup rice, one cup grated cheese, two 
eggs, one and one-half cups milk, salt and pepper to taste; wash the rice 
and boil in salted water, then drain, add the pimentos chopped, the eggs 
well beaten, cheese, milk and seasoning. Turn in a buttered dish and 
bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes. Mrs. F. V. 



SPANISH RICE. 

Brown three or four slices of bacon cut in dice and one onion sliced 
fine, then wash and dry one cup of rice and fry until slightly brown; add 
salt and finely chopped green pepper, one quart bouillon and one-half can 
tomatoes. Cook slowly for one hour. Mrs. W. J. T. 

26 



MACARONI MILANAISE. 

Cook half package of macaroni in three quarts of salted water until 
tender; drain well and cover with cold water for ten minutes or more; 
cook one can of tomatoes for fifteen minutes with a bay leaf, bit of mace, 
onion, three cloves, parsley, salt and pepper; strain and thicken with one- 
fourth cup .each of Globe A-l flour and butter, blended together; drain 
macaroni again and mix with sauce. To this may be added for variety four 
or five green peppers cut in dice and boiled until tender and also mush- 
rooms; or sprinkle top with grated cheese and bake quickly until 
brown. T. H. 



BEAN RAREBIT. 

A way to us?e the last of the beans: Melt two tablespoons butter, add 
one teaspoon salt, paprika, one-half cup of milk and one cup cold beans 
(mashed); stir until hot and add one-half cup grated cheese. Serve on 
circular pieces of toasted bread. Mrs. C. Cunningham. 



BREAD 

"The very staff of life, 
The comfort of the husband; 
The pride of the wife." 



CREAM MUFFINS. 

One pint Globe A-l flour sifted with one heaping teaspoonful Hallifax 
Quality baking powder (use less of this powder than of other powders), 
beat together one pint cream and one tablespoonful of butter; add two 
beaten eggs; mix in the flour; drop in buttered muffin rings and bake 
quickly. C. G. 



SOUTHERN POTATO ROLLS. 

One cup of mashed potato and water, one cup hot water, one-half cup 
of lard, one tablespoon of sugar, one teaspoon of salt, one egg, two cups 
of Globe A-l flour, one-half Fleischmann's yeast cake in little warm water; 
let rise until light, work down and roll out as for biscuits; use small 
cutter; put two biscuits together with melted butter between; let rise 
again until light, and bake L. P. R. 



HOT RUSKS. 

One-half cup butter, one cup milk, two eggs, two teaspoons Hallifax 
Quality baking powder (use less of this power than other powders), one- 
half cup sugar, pinch of salt, three cups Globe A-l flour. M. A. T. 



EGG GEMS. 

Cup chopped boiled ham, cup bread crumbs, three small green onions 
chopped fine, parsley, and mix tablespoon melted butter; add enough milk 
to make dry paste; butter gem tins (hot); fill half full of mixture; drop 
an egg in each; season; grate cheese over each; bake in moderate oven 
till eggs are set. G. H. 

27 



HEALTH GEMS. 

Two cups bran, one cup whole wheat flour, one and one-half cups sour 
milk, one teaspoon soda dissolved in milk, six tablespoons New Orleans 
molasses, one-half teaspoon salt; bake in muffin tins in slow oven one 
hour C. F. A. 



BATTER BREAD. 

One cup corn-meal, one cup boiled rice or hominy, two eggs, butter 
the size of an egg, one pint of sour milk, one-half teaspoon soda; pour 
enough boiling water with a large pinch of salt on meal to scald it (but 
not to show water) ; add rice, butter and eggs (beaten) ; when cool add 
milk in which soda is dissolved; beat until hard; bake forty-five minutes 
in quick oven. A. A. 



BISCUIT. 

Two cups of Globe A-l white flour, two cups of graham flour, one 
tablespoon of lard, one tablespoon of butter, three teaspoons of Hallifax 
Quality baking powder (use less of this powder than other powders), pinch 
of salt, and milk enough to moisten; roll out thin and cut with a biscuit 
cutter and bake. These are nice split open and toasted. 



BATTER BISCUIT. 

Pint of Globe A-l flour, cup of milk, tablespoon of lard, pinch of salt; 
mix into stiff batter; beat with rolling pin or machine made for trat pur- 
pose till blisters appear upon the dough; cut out with biscuit cutter; stick 
holes in the top of each biscuit with fork, and bake. B. M. M. 



CORN CAKES. 

Three-fourths cup cornmeal, one-fourth cup Globe A-l flour, three- 
fourths cup milk, one-half teaspoonful Hallifax Quality baking powder (use 
less of this powder than other powders), one teaspoonful sugar; one egg, 
beaten in after mixture is thoroughly mixed; one salt spoonful salt; table- 
spoonful of mixture to each cake; fry in butter. Myra P. Miller. 



FRENCH PANCAKES. 

Drop two eggs into two cups of Globe A-l flour and stir briskly; stir 
in milk slowly until thin and add salt spoon of salt, tablespoonful of sugar, 
and fcalt, spoonful of Hallifax Quality baking powder (use less of this 
powder U-an other powders). Mira P. Miller. 



CORN MUFFINS. 

One cup of cornmeal, one cup of Globe A-l flour, two eggs, one-half 
cup of sugar; one teaspoon of Hallifax Quality baking powder (use less of 
this powed than other powders); beat eggs well; take equal quantities of 
milk and water (two-thirds of a pint) to make thin batter make twelve 
muffins. Mrs. L. A. Carter. 



RICE CORN BREAD. 

Seven and one-half pounds cornmeal, two saucerfuls hot cooked rice, 
one teaspoonful tali, and one-half heaping teaspoonful yeast powder, two 
tablespoonfuls melted butter, three cups milk, three eggs. (1) Mix yeast 
powder with cornmeal, add salt; (2) beat up eggs and whites together; 
(3) put milk in eggs and add to mixed ingredients a litte at a time; (4) 
add buttered rice; (5) stir; (6) put in buttered pan; (7) bake three-fourths 
hour in slow oven. Mrs. Edgar Stone. 

28 



FLAPJACKS. 

Three cups flour, three heaping teaspoons yeast powder, three table- 
spoons melted butter, one cup milk. K 



CORN BREAD (Can't be Equaled). 

One pint cornmeal (white), two teaspoons sugar, one teaspoon salt, 
two tablespoons butter, three cups milk, four eggs, two rounding teaspoons 
Hallifax Quality baking powder (use less of this powder than other pow- 
ders) ; sift meal, sugar, salt together; heat milk, pour hot over meal, then 
add butter; let stand until cool; add eggs, one at a time, beating each one; 
lastly add Hallifax Quality baking powder; bake forty -five minutes in 
moderate oven. A. Kirk. 



SOUTHERN BATTER BREAD. 

One cup of cornmeal, one teaspoon of sugar, one-half teaspoon of salt, 
one tablespoon of butter, one cup of milk, two cups of boiling water, one 
egg; cook on top of stove for five or ten minutes, then pour in baking dish 
and bake in quick oven for fifteen or twenty minutes, then pour in baking 
dish and bake in quick oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. A little boiled 
rice added is a nice variety. 



BROWN BREAD. 

Three cups graham flour, one-half cup Globe A-l white flour, one-half 
cup molasses, one cup raisins, two cups sour milk, a little salt, two table- 
spoonfuls melted butter, two level teaspoonfuls soda sifted with Globe A-l 
flour; bake in four one-pound baking cans; stand in oven twenty minutes, 
then lay on side and turn every little while; bake one and one-fourth hours 
in moderate oven. 



BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups graham flour, one cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda, scant 
cup molasses, salt. 

POPOVERS. 

One and one-half cups sifted Globe A-l flour, little salt, two cups milk, 
three eggs (alternately), one tablespoon butter (added last); bake about 
forty minutes in a moderate oven. 



ENGLISH NUT BREAD. 

One egg, one cup brown sugar, two cups sour milk, four cups Globe A-l 
flour, one teaspoonful soda, a pinch of salt, one tablespoonful cinnamon, one 
cup chopped nuts and raisins; bake one hour in slow oven (until straw can 
be drawn out dry). It is better after standing in bread box for day or 
two. Mrs. Frank K. Mott. 



ROLLS. 

One pint milk scalded in double boiler; add one tablespoon butter, one 
tablespoon lard, one tablespoon sugar, one teaspoon salt; soak one-half 
cake of Fleischmann's compressed yeast in one-half cup of blood-heat 
water, and add to milk when tepid; add one beaten egg; add enough 
Globe A-l flour to make a soft dough; let rise four hours, then make into 
rolls and allow to rise one hour more; bake in hot oven about twenty 
minutes. Mrs. A. Long. 

29 



SOFT GINGER BREAD. 

One-half cup sugar, one cup molasses, one-half cup butter, one teaspoon 
ginger, one teaspoon cinnamon and cloves, two teaspoons soda (dissolved 
in one cup boiling water), two and one-half cups of Globe A-l flour well 
sifted; add two well beaten eggs the last thing before baking. C. M. C. 



BROWN BREAD. 

One cup sour milk, one cup sweet milk, one cup New Orleans molasses, 
one cup Globe A-l graham flour, one cup Globe A-l white flour, one cup 
corn meal, one-ralf cup brown sugar, one heaping teaspoonful of soda 
(dissolved in hot water) ; steam three hours. Makes good sized baking if 
receipt is doubled. Mrs. Horton. 



NUT BREAD. 

Three cups flour, one cup brown sugar, one cup chopped nuts, one and 
one-half cups sweet milk, a little salt, four teaspoons Halifax Quality 
baking powder (use less of this powder than of other powders) ; let stand 
15 minutes before putting into oven. Bake in moderate oven one hour. Do 
not open door for one-half hour. Mrs. Horton. 



CORN BREAD. 

One cup white Globe A-l flour, two cups corn meal (white), two eggs, 
a little salt, two teaspoons of Halifax Quality baking powder (use less of 
this powder than of other powders), one cup cream. Mix thoroughly and 
bake in a well greased pan 20 or 30 minutes in a medium heated oven. 
Mrs. C. Cunningham. 



STEAMED BROWN BREAD. 

One cup Glove A-l graham flour, one cup corn meal, one cup Globe 
A-l flour, one cup sour milk, one cup molasses, one tablespoon soda, salt. 
Steam three hours. Mrs. Ferguson. 



BROWN BREAD. 

One cup corn meal, two cups flour, two-thirds cup molasses, one tea- 
spoon soda, one teaspoon salt, two tablespoons butter, milk or water to 
make thin batter. Boil four hours, or steam one hour. Mrs. P. B. Ward. 



NUT BREAD. 

One cup brown sugar, one and one-half cups milk, three cups Globe 
A-l flour, one cup nuts (walnuts) chopped, four teaspoons Halifax Quality 
baking powder (use less of this powder than other powders) ; mix together 
and put in greased pan; let stand 15 minutes before baking. Bake one 
hour. Do not open door of oven for one-half hour. Mrs. Nicholas H. Bath. 



GRAHAM NUT BREAD. 

Two cups Globe A-l graham flour, one-half cup Globe A-l white flour, 
one-half cup cornmeal, one-half cup molasses, one-half cup brown sugar, 
two cups sour milk, one large cup chopped nuts, two level teaspoons soda, 
one teaspoon Halifax Quality baking powder (use less of this powder than 
other powders), one teaspoon salt; mix Hallifax Quality baking powder, 
nuts, flour, cornmeal and sugar; dissolve soda in sour milk, then mix 
together. Bake in two pans in a slow oven about one hour. Mrs. F. V. 

30 



Phoenix Flour 



In Your Kitchen 



Nothing Better 



Made in 
SACRAMENTO. 



Phone : Main 976, 




3131 M Street 

Family Finished Work 
a Specialty 

Rough Dry 35c Per Dozen. 



31 



NUT BREAD. 

One cup Globe A-l flour, a little salt, two cups graham flour, one and 
one-half cups sour milk, small teaspoon soda, one-half cup molasses, nuts 
and raisins. Bake 40 minutes or one hour. Mrs. C. H. 



SPIDER CORN CAKE. 

Three-fourths cup corn meal, one-fourth cup Globe A-l flour, two table- 
spoons sugar, one-half teaspoon salt, ore-half teaspoon soda (sift all dry 
ingredients together), one egg, one-half cup sweet milk and one-half cup 
sour milk mixed together, two tablespoons melted butter. Mix together 
pour into well greased pan; then pour over this one-half cup sweet milk 
and bake in moderate oven. F. H. 



SALLY LUNN BREAD. 

Two and one-half cups of milk warmed slightly, one-half Fleischmann's 
yeast cake dissolved, one teaspoon of butter, salt to taste, one tablespoon 
sugar, one tablespoon lard, two eggs (beaten seperately), and flour to 
thicken. Put in pans and let raise from noon until supper. Mrs. H. 
Heilbron. 



BEATEN BISCUITS. 

One full pint of Globe A-l flour, one heaping tablespoon of lard, one 
even teaspoon salt. Work the lard into the Globe A-l flour; take cold 
water and gradually work into flour until soft. Beat 15 minutes. Mrs. J. E. 
Wheeler (former pastor's wife). 

PASTRY 

"No soil upon earth is so dear to our eyes, 
As the soil we first stirred in terrestrial pies." 



PIE. 

Pie Crust Five tablespoonfuls of Globe A-l flour, two tablespoonfuls 
of lard, one saltspoonful of salt, small pinch of yeast powder and just 
enough very cold water to make a stiff dough. This will make enough 
for one pie. Wet the top crust with milk just before baking. 



SQUASH PIE. 

One pint stewed and sifted squash, one pint rich milk, two rounding 
tablespoons of butter, one cup of sugar; one level teaspoon each of salt, 
ginger and cinnamon; one-fourth teaspoon of nutmeg, three eggs. 



LEMON PIE. 

Beat together two eggs, two cups write sugar and the juice of two 
lemons; chop the rind of one lemon and nearly all of the inside of 
both, and add all together; taste the rind and see that it is not bitter; 
make with two crusts. Mrs. Andrew Moseley. 



LEMON PIE. 

One lemon, one cup sugar, three eggs, one cup sweet milk, one table- 
spoon cornstarch, one teaspoon butter; cream butter, sugar and starch; 
add milk and beaten yolks; grate yellow off outside of lemon and use a 
flavoring; squeeze out juice and add to mixture; beat whites to stiff froth 
and add last; stir well; bake with bottom crust only. This makes two pies. 

32 




"IDEAL" "M>t-#Seed 



LIKED BY EVERYBODY BECAUSE 
THEY ARE 



BEST FOR CHILDREN 
BEST FOR COOKING 
BETTER THAN CANDY 



HEALTHFUL & SWEET 
NOURISHING FRUIT 
ECONOMICAL FOOD 



THOROUGHLY BRUSHED, DRY AND CLEAN 
NOT PROCESSED, NOT WET AND STICKY 

Comparative Food Values 

One Pound of Raisins Equals 

1>3 Pounds of Beef 4 Pounds of Milk 

4^ Pounds of Fish 2 Pounds of Eggs 

1 Pound of Bread 6 Pounds of Apples 

Pounds of Potatoes 5 Pounds of Bananas 



ABOVE STATISTICS FROM U. S. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 

BULLETIN No. 42 

TRY SOME OF OUR COOKING RECIPES ON NEXT PAGE 



RAISIN PIE WITHOUT EGGS. 2 cups raisins, % teaspoon cinnamon, y 2 tablespoon butter, V 2 cup 
sugar, tablespoon flour and pinch salt. Cover raisins with boiling water, add cinnamon and cook 20 
minutes. Mix sugar, salt and flour and sprinkle % on lower pie crust; add raisins and sprinkle with other 
V6 of sugar, etc. Add few dots of butter and upper crust and bake. 

HOME MADE RAISIN BREAD. 1 pint water, 1 pint sweet milk, 2 ounces sugar, 1 ounce salt 2 ounces 
lard, \V 2 ounces compressed yeast, 2 pounds raisins, 4 pounds flour. Have milk and water warm.' Dissolve 
yeast in water. Mix dough thoroughly. Let dough raise well, then punch down and let raise again 
Mould in round loaves and when raised bake in hot oven of about 450 degrees. When potato yeast is 
used, use 1 pint yeast and 1 pint milk or water. 

SPICED RAISIN BREAD. 2 cups scalded milk, 3 tablespoonsful butter, 2 tablespoonsful sugar, 1 tea- 
spoonful salt, y 2 teaspoonful cinnamon, 1 yeast cake in 14 cup lukewarm water, 3 cups flour, 1 cup raisins. 
Beat thoroughly, cover, let -rise till light; cut down and add enough flour to knead (about 2% cups). Let 
rise again and bake in moderate oven. 

RAISIN AND NUT SANDWICHES Take mayonnaise or firmly whipped sweet cream, thicken 
with powdered or chopped nut meats, and Not-A-Seed Raisins. Walnuts, pecans, almonds, filberts 
or Brazil nuts are nice, ot a. mixture of several varieties are good. Made with tea biscuits or finger rolls 
they are very nice and require no butter. 

BRAMBLES. 1 cup Not-A-Seed Raisins chopped fine and 1* cups crackers rolled fine, 1 egg and 
1M: lemons (grated peel and juice). Roll short, pie crust thin, cut with cookie cutter. Put a spoonful of 
the Raisin mixture between two circles of pie crust and pinch the edges together with the fingers. Bake 
a light brown. 

MARGUERITES. Make a paste of a cup of chopped nuts and a cup of Not-A-Seed Raisins, mixed 
with boiled icing. Spread on wafer crackers and put in a very hot oven for a minute only to give them a 
delicate brown. Very nice with chocolate or coffee for light refreshments. 

RAISIN COOKIES. 1 pound sugar, 1 pound dark brown sugar, 1 pound butter, iy 2 pounds raisins, 
2% pounds flour, % cup molasses, 8 eggs, cinnamon and cloves to taste, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in a 
little hot water. Cream butter and sugar as for regular cake and mix accordingly. Drop a teaspoonful on 
a buttered pan and it should spread like a cookie. If too thin, a little more flour may be added. 

MINCE PIES WITHOUT BRANDY. Temperance Mince Pie is made as follows: 1% pint chopped meat, 
3 pints chopped apples, V 2 pint each of vinegar and fruit syrup, 2 pints sugar, 1 pint Not-A-Seed Raisins, 
2 tablespoons cinnamon and a grated nutmeg. Before putting on the crust drop over each pie bits of butter. 

COFFEE CAKE. 1 cup molasses, 1 cup butter, 3 cups flour, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup cold coffee, 1 teaspoon 
of soda, % teaspoon of clove, allspice and cinnamon, 1 cup Not-A-Seed Raisins, currants and small piece 
citron. 

RAISIN CHOCOLATES. Put % Ib. cake of vanilla sweet chocolate in a sauce pan over boiling water, 
and when melted add 2 level teaspoons butter and 2 of boiling water. Dip raisins and put on oiled paper. 

NUT BREAD. Sift together 4 cups flour, 4 teaspoons baking powder. To one-half of this add 1 cup 
chopped nuts, % cup chopped Not-A-Seed Raisins. Now beat together % cup sugar, 1 egg and 1V 2 cups 
milk. Add sifted flour, then flour with nuts and Not-A-Seed Raisins. Put into 2 well greased pans, lei 
<taml about 20 minutes, then bake for nearly an hour in moderate oven. 

RAISIN CAKE. Put 1 pound butter into a basin, warm it, beat it to a cream and add gradually 1 pound 
sifted flour, the same of crushed loaf sugar, and the yolks of 6 eggs. Stir these well and when they are 
Incorporated add a wineglass brandy, 1 grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoon water, and lastly the whites of 6 eggs 
whipped to a froth. Work well until the mixture has a light and creamy appearance, then add 1 pound 
Not A-Seed Raisins finely chopped and sprinkle over with 1 breakfast cup flour to make them mix easier. 
Pour the cake mixture into a tin or mould lined with well buttered paper, bake 1^ hours, turn it out, 
when done it is ready for use. A few rose leaves steeped in the brandy will add to the flavor of the cake. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. Take 1 pound Not-A-Seed Raisins, mix with them a pound of currants 
and % pound minced orange peel, dust over *4 pound flour. Chop fine 1 pound suet, add to it 14 pound 
of brown sugar, y 2 nutmeg grated, % pound stale dry crumbs. Mix all the ingredients together, beat 5 
eggs, without separating, until light, add to them % pint grape or orange juice, pour over the dry ingredi- 
ents and mix thoroughly. The mixture should not be wet, but each particle should be moistened. Pack 
this into small greased kettles or moulds, it will fill 2 3-lh. kettles. Put on the covers, stand the moulds 
in the steamer and steam steadily for 10 hours. The easier way is to get the ingredients ready the night 
before ; mix and put them on early in the morning, allowing them to cook all day. Take from the steamer, 
remove the lids of the kettles or moulds and allow the puddings to cool, then replace lids and put puddings 
away. They will keep in a cool place for several months or a year. 

RAISIN RICE PUDDING. 1V 2 cups boiled rice, 1 pint of milk, 2 eggs beaten light, 3 tablespoons 
sugar, 1 cup Not-A-Seed Raisins., % teaspoon salt, % teaspoon vanilla. Put in dish, grate nutmeg over 
the top and bake until brown. 

ROLY POLY PUDDING. Take ^ pound shredded beef suet, mix with 3 cups flour sifted with 1 tea- 
spoon baking powder and a pinch of salt. Mix with water to a rather stiff paste. Roll out, sprinkle with 
I pound Not-A-Seed Raisins, roll up folding in ends neatly, tie up in a scalded and floured cloth, plunge 
into boiling water and cook steadily for 2 hours. Serve with plain sweet sauce or cream. 

MACAROONS. ^ cup chopped Not-A-Seed Raisins, V& cup chopped peanuts, 1 cup powdered sugar, 

1 large tablespoon of flour and whites of 2 eggs ; drop mixture on buttered paper and bake 'a light brown 
in a moderate oven. 

RAISIN LAYER CAKE. Cream % cup butter with 2 cups sugar, add yolks of 4 eggs well beaten. 
Mix 3 cups flour, 2% teaspoons baking powder. Add this alternately with 1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon lemon 
extract. Bake in 4 jelly cake tins. Put together with raisin cream made of 4 whites of eggs beaten well 
with % cup powdered sugar and 1 cup Not-A-Seed Raisins chopped fine. 

RAISIN BRITTLE. % cup Not-A-Seed Raisins, *4 cup figs, % cup Brazil nuts, sliced *4 cup cocoanut. 
Grease tin plates and scatter nuts and fruit over them. Then boil until good and brittle the following : 

2 cups sugar, 1 teaspoon butter, ^4 cup vinegar, ^ cup water. Pour into plates containing fruit. Break 
into pieces when cold. 

CRANBERRY AND RAISIN PIE. 1 cup Not-A-Seed Raisins, 2 cups cranberries, 2 cups sugar. Put 
all together and chop fine ; add 1 cup water. Bake in shallow plates with 2 crusts. Make two pies. 

COCOANUT AND RAISIN PUDDING. Put % pound desiccated cocoanut into a pudding dish. Break 
in pieces 6 small sponge cakes ; over these pour 1 quart boiling milk with 1 teaspoon butter melted in it ; 
add 4 tablespoons sugar. Let it stand an hour covered close. Mix 1 pound Not-A-Seed Raisins with 4 
well beaten eegs and bake in a slow oven.' This is delicious either hot or cold. 

RAISIN BROWN BREAD. 3 cups yellow corn meal, 1% cups graham flour, \Vz cups white flour, 1 cup 
N. O. molasses, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in half cup hot water, 1 teaspoon salt, enough sour milk to make 
a soft batter. Mix flour and salt, then molasses with soda. Stir until foamy, then add milk and 1* cups 
raisins. Fill mould half full and steam 3 hours. 

RAISIN LOAF CAKE. A piece of raised dough, % cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 3 eggs well beaten, 1 cup 
walnuts chopped, 1 pound Not-A-Seed Raisins, 1 tablespoon cinnamon. Mix well and let raise until light; 
bake in mould. 

RAISIN SANDWICHES. Chop fine one cup of raisins together with one cup of nuts, preferably wal- 
nuts, mix with whipped cream or the white of an egg beaten, season with salt. Spread between slices of 
bread, cut very thin. 



CHOCOLATE PIE. 

Line pie crust in plate; prick and bake; while baking, mix dry one cup 
sugar, two tablespoons cocoa, one tablespoon cornstarch, yolk of two 
eggs (unbeaten), two cups boiling water; cook until thick, remove from 
fire and add one teaspoon butter .and one teaspoon vanilla; pour into 
crust and put beaten whites on top; brown in oven. 



PIE CRUST. 

Five tablespoons water, two heaping tablespoons lard or butter, pinch 
of salt; add enough Globe A-l flour to roll. This is enough for one pie and 
never fails. F. H. 



LEMON PIE. 

Grated rind and juice of one lemon, one cup sugar, yolk of two eggs, 
two teaspoonsful Globe A-l flour, one teaspoonful butter, one cup water. 
Cook all together and when it boils pour into pie shell already baked; 
cover with meringe made of stiffly beaten egg whites and sugar. Mrs. 
Clark Bell. 



MINCE MEAT. 

Four pounds meat, three pounds suet, three pounds raisins, three 
pounds currants, one-half pound citron, one quart syrup, one quart boiled 
cider, all kinds of spice to taste, a little sugar, nine pounds apples, 
brandy to taste. Heat, and bottle. Mrs. Norton. 



PINE APPLE PIE. 

One large can pineapple (grated), one-half cup sugar, one heaping tea- 
spoon of butter, one-half cup cream, one-half cup rich milk, four eggs. 
Beat butter, sugar and yolks of eggs until very light; add cream and milk, 
pineapple, whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth; reserve two whites for 
meringue or use all four for pie and serve with whipped cream. C. M. C. 



MINCE MEAT. 

Four cups lean beef, eight cups sour apples, three cups suet, three 
cups sugar, two cups sour cider, three cups raisins, two and one-half tea- 
spoons black pepper, two teaspoons cloves, two nutmegs, three teaspoons 
cinnamon, a little citron. Mrs. P. B. Ward. 



CHOPPED APPLE PIE. 

Chop enough apples to fill pie plate; add the beaten yolk of one egg, 
one cup sugar, one teaspoon water and bake with under crust only; beat 
white of egg with one teaspoon sugar and cover pie; brown in oven. 



CREAM PIE. 

Four heaping tablespoonsful of sugar, two scant tablespoonsful Globe 
A-l flour, two egg yolks, one pint of milk, one tablespoonful of butte^; 
flavor with nutmeg. Meringue for Top: Beat two whites of eggs with two 
tablespoonsful of sugar; mix sugar and Globe A-l flour then beat in eggs 
and milk; cook until it begins to thicken. Mrs. N. Whitman. 

33 



PUDDING 

'The proof of the pudding is in the eating. 



PLUM PUDDING. 

One dozen well-teaten eggs, three pounds raisins, seeded, one and 
one-half loaves bread crumbed, one large cup suet, on large cup brown 
sugar, one large cup white sugar, one large cup New Orleans molasses 
into which put one-fourth teaspconful saleratus, one teaspoonful salt, one 
pound citron sliced very thin, one cup of brandy into which put one-half 
teaspoonful of vanilla, cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg, and a little lemon. Dip 
cloth into hot water, rub butter over it, then Globe A-l flour over that, then 
put pudding into ttis muslin, tie tight, put into boiling water, and keep 
boiling for five hours. 



PLUM PUDDING (Four Persons). 

One-half pound raisins, one-half pound currants, one-half pound bread 
crumbs, three-fouiths pound suet, one-fourth pound Globe A-l flour, four 
eggs, one-third pound almonds (chopped), three or four chopped citron; 
mix well and boil five hours. Serve with sugar sauce and sherry. 



ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound each of Globe A-l flour, finely chopped beef steak, 
currants (washed and dried), stoned raisins, and light-brown sugar; one 
cupful of thinly sliced orange, citron and lemon peels, mixed; seven eggs, 
one grated nutmeg, one even teaspoonful of salt; mix all dry ingredients 
together, and moisten with the well-beaten eggs; then add sufficient beer 
to make suitable consistency; mix well. Boil about seven hours in well 
buttered mold. Allow one inch for expansion. Serve with brandy sauce. 



STEAM PUDDING. 

One cup New Orleans molasses, piece of butter (or suet) size of 
small egg, one cup sweet milk, one level teaspoonful soda dissolved in 
hot water, three cupfuls Globe A-l flour, one-half teaspoonful salt, one-half 
teaspoonful cinnamon, one-half teaspoonful nutmeg, one-fourth teaspoonful 
cloves. Fruit may be added. Steam three hours steadily. 

Sauce. 

One and one-half cupsful pulverized sugar, cream thoroughly with 
one heaping tablespoonful butter, four eggs, whites and yolks beaten 
thoroughly; mix yolks with creamed butter and sugar; then the whites. 
Flavor with brandy or sherry. 



CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING. 

Two squares of chocolate, two cupsful of bread crumbs, four cupsful 
scalded milk, two-thirds cupful eugar, two eggs, one-fourth teaspoonful 
salt, one teaspoonful vanilla, one-half cupful of English walnuts. Melt 
the chocolate over hot water, soak bread in the milk for one-half hour, 
then add sugar, chocolate, salt, vanilla, the nuts, and eggs well beaten. 
Turn into buttered pudding dish and bake in a modeiate oven for one- 
half hour. Serve with cream. 

34 



CARROT PUDDING. 

One cupful chopped suet, one cupful Globe A-l flour, one cupful bread 
crumbs, one cupful grated raw potatoes, ore cupful grated raw carrots, 
two cupfuls raisins, one-half cupful syrup, one-half cupful milk, one-half 
teaspoonful Hallifax Quality baking powder (use less of this powder than 
other powders). Boil in mold for four hours. Serve with wine or hard 
sauce or beaten egg sauce. 



SWEET POTATO PUDDING. 

Two cupfuls of grated sweet potatoes. Beat cupful of sugar into four 
eggs very light. One-half cupful of butter, nutmeg or spices to taste. 
Bake in an earthen dish for about an hour and a half and serve with 
hard sauce. 



IMPERIAL PUDDING. 

One-fourth cupful of rice, one cvpful of milk, one-half cupful of sugar, 
two tablespoonsful of mace or flavor with vanilla, one-half teaspoonful of 
salt, one-fourth box of gelatine soaked in one-fourth cup of cold water. 
Put rice to boil in one pint of cold water. As soon as hot pour off all 
the water; add the milk; boil one hour in double boiler; add gelatine, 
sugar, salt and flavoring: when cold add one cup of whipped cream or 
serve with custard made of one-half cupful of sugar, one pint milk and 
two eggs. 



ZABAJOUE. 

(Portion for one person.) Yolk of one egg, one-half egg shell of sugar, 
one-half egg shell sherry, one teaspoonful Maraschino. Put in double 
boiler and place over fire ; stir constantly until consistency of whipped 
cream. Remove immediately and add one tablespoonful of whipped cream. 
Put in glass to cool. Serve ice cold. 



PLUM PUDDING. 

One-half pound suet chopped fine, little salt, one pound seeded raisins, 
one pound currants, one-quarter citron and lemon peel, one pound bread 
crumbs, six eggs, one cup milk, one teaspoon allspice, one-fourth teaspoon 
cloves, two teaspoon cinnamon, one pound sugar, one wine glass brandy, 
add one cup chopped almonds. Boil six hours the longer the better. 
A. K. 



PINEAPPLE BAVARIAN CREAM. 

One can grated pineapple, one cup sugar, one-half box gelatine, one- 
half cup cold water, one-half cup boiling water, one pint cream. Stew pine- 
apple and sugar together ten minutes; soak gelatine in cold water until 
soft and dissolve in boiling water; strain into pineapple and cool; add 
cream well whipped and set away in mould. C. M. C. 



DELICIOUS RICE DESSERT. 

One-half cup boiled rice, one pint boiled custard, one cup preserved 
strawberries. Put these in a dessert dish, first the rice, then the custard 
and then the berries; cover with whipped cream. Ramekin dishes may 
be used instead of one large dish. C. M. C. 

35 



ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound chopped suet (very fine), two pounds seeded raisins, two 
pounds currants, one-fourth pound citron (shave fine), one pound light 
brown sugar, three well beaten eggs, one-half pint milk, one grated nutmeg, 
one teaspoon salt, Globe A-l flour sufficient to make very stiff, three tea- 
spoonsful vanilla flavoring. Put into buttered cans and boil in a kettle of 
water for four or five hours. This pudding will keep for three or four 
weeks and can be steamed. 

Hard Sauce. 

One cup of unsalted butter (beat butter in cold water to remove salt), 
one cup granulated sugar (beat to a cream) and add stiffly beaten white 
of one egg, flavor with vanilla. Mrs. Clark E. Bell. 



DATE PUDDING. 

Five eggs (whites), one cup of sugar, three level teaspoons Hallifax 
quality baking powder (use less of this powder than other powders), one 
pound English walnuts, one-half pound dates. Beat egg whites stiff. Put 
in sugar and Hallifax Quality baking powder, add chopped nuts and dates; 
bake twenty or thirty minutes in a slow oven in a well buttered dish. 
Serve with whipped cream. Mrs. C. Cunningham. 



SNOW PUDDING. 

One tablespoon gelatine, one-half cup cold water, let stand for fifteen 
minutes; add one-half cup sugar, one-half cup hot water, juice of one 
lemon, and beat whites of two eggs stiff, pour over beaten whites and beat 
until creamy. Pineapple, nuts or cherries may be added. F. H. 



SUET PUDDING. 

One cup milk, one cup chopped suet, one cup seeded raisins, one cup 
molasses, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cinnamon, one-fourth teaspoon 
allspice, one-fourth teaspoon nutmeg. Sift soda in Globe A-l flour enough 
to thicken (as for cake), and mix all together. Steam three hours and 
serve hot with whipped cream. Mrs. F. V. 



APPLE SNOW. 

One quart apple sauce, whites of five eggs, pinch of gelatine. Soak 
gelatine in hot water to cover. Beat whites of eggs to stiff froth, then 
beat in apple sauce and gelatine. When very stiff put on ice for about 
an hour and a half. L. D. K. 



WINE SAUCE. 

Two eggs, one small water glass wine, sugar, one tablespoonful Globe 
A-l flour, one and three-fourths glass water. Stir tablespoonful Globe A-l 
flour to paste with a little water, add two eggs, mix well; add water 
sugar to taste, cinnamon, whole small piece. Put on stove cold wine and 
stir constantly until comes to a boil. Remove right away; strain. L. D. K. 



SUET PUDDING. 

One cup suet, one cup molasses, one cup sweet milk, one egg, three 
cups Globe A-l flour, one nutmeg, a little salt, one teaspoon soda. Steam 
three hours. Mrs. P. B. Ward. 

36 



K. G. and ARGO 

Brands of 

Flavoring 
Extracts 

May be depended upon to give the rich delicacy of a perfectly pure 
vanilla in the K. G. brand or the stronger, and rather coarser 
flavor of the Argo brand, which is preferred by many. Whatever 
the inclination of your taste, these extracts will satisfy. Made 
in a moderate up-to-date laboratory by 

KIRK, GEARY & CO. 

Sacramento, Cal. 

Will You Save Anything 
This Month? 

You will not be alone if you don't. Hundreds of 
others will save nothing this month, nor have they 
saved anything for many previous months ; but the 
quicker you advance yourself from the SPENDERS 
to the SAVERS, the better it will be for your future, 

Systematic Saving is the Kind That Counts 

and Everything is in Making the Start 

Determine what part of your income you can save 
each month, and send it to this strong Savings Bank. 
Never skip, never decrease the amount ; the rapidity 
with which your dollars accumulate will astonish you. 
ONE DOLLAR WILL OPEN A 4 PER CENT 

SAVINGS ACCOUNT. 
Send for our booklet "BANKING BY MAIL." 

The Peoples Savings Bank 

Sacramento, Cal. 

SAVINGS COMMERCIAL 



37 



CARROT PUDDING. 

One cup grated carrot, one cup grated potato, one cup seeded raisins, 
one cup of Globe A-l flour, butter size of an egg; put one cup of sugar in 
the grated carrot and one teaspoon of soda in the potato, then mix the two; 
mix the raisins in the Globe A-l flour, add cinnamon and nutmeg to taste; 
mix all and steam three hours. Serve with any good pudding sauce. 
C. M. C. 



CARROT PUDDING. 

One cup grated carrot, one cup grated potato, one cup sugar, one cup 
flour, one cup raisins, one cup currants, one teaspoon cinnamon, one tea- 
spoon nutmeg, one teaspoon soda, butter size of an egg. If desired, one 
r>,up chopped nuts and half a cup of citron may be added. Sti am pudding 
three hours. Any kind of sauce may be used. Mrs. whitman. 



PUNCH 

FRUIT PUNCH. 

Pour one quart of boiling water over a heaping tablespoonful of Lewis 
London Dock Tea and cover closely. When the tea is cold strain it into 
a large bowl or pitcher in which has been placed a large piece of ice. 
Add one and one-half cups of sugar, the juice of one orange and three 
lemons, and one box of firm strawberries, cutting the larger berries into 
halves. Place on the ice two bottles of mineral water and when they are 
cold pour them over the fruit juices and serve at once. 

MRS. HENRY A. HEILBRON. 



FRUIT PUNCH. 

Three cans of sliced pineapple; lemons or limes two and a half dozen, 
or to taste; one quart of raspberry juice; sugar and water to make a nice 
lemonade and add a nice piece of ice. 

MRS. HENRY A. HEILBRON. 



RASPBERRY JUICE. 

Any quantity of raspberries you like. Cover with vinegar and then 
let it stand two days. Strain and add to a pint of juice one pound of 
sugar. Let it boil about five minutes. Bottle and use new corks. 



CAKES 

'Problems of state confront the great, 
And love, they say, is bitter sweet, 
But the question that perplexes us 
Far more than politics, 
Is how to bake this cake." 



ROLL JELLY CAKE. 

Three eggs beaten well, one cup sugar (beat again), one-third cup cold 
water, one cup Globe A-l flour, one teaspoon Hallifax Quality baking pow- 
der (use less of this powder than other powders), flavoring. Bake in large 
pan, roll at once. When taken from oven use any kind of jelly in roll. 
Mrs. Orrin B. Whipple. 

38 



Our Specialty Car Lots Beans, Potatoes, Onions, Celery and 
Assorted Vegetables. 




Wood-Curtis Company 

(Incorporated) 

SACRAMENTO, CAL. 

Growers and Shippers 

The House of Quality and Service. Wholesale Produce and Fruit. 



Compliments of 

A FRIEND 



39 



NUT CAKE. 

One cup butter, two cups of sugar creamed together, one cup sweet 
milk, four cups Globe A-l flour, two teaspoons Hallifax Quality baking 
powder (use less of this powder than other powders), one cup of English 
walnuts, six eggs beaten and added last. Bake in a moderate oven. 
C. M. C. 



FRENCH POUND CAKE. 

Two cups of srgar, one cup butter, one cup milk, five eggs beaten 
separately, three cups of Globe A-l flour, two scant teaspoons Hallifax 
baking powder (use less of this powder than other powders) ; cream the 
butter; add the sugar, then yolks and milk, Globe A-l flour and Hallifax 
Quality baking powder sifted together; white of eggs, beaten, added last; 
flavor to suit the taste. C. M. C. 



QUICK BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups milk (sour or butter milk), heaping teaspoon soda in milk, 
heaping teaspoon salt, two large tablespoons molasses, one tablespoon 
sugar, three level cups of Globe A-l graham flour; mix well; bake slowly 
about one hour. Bake in baking powder cans if round loaf is desired. 
C. M. C. 



BURNT SUGAR CAKE. 

Beat together one and one-half cups sugar, one-f alf cup butter and 
yolk of two eggs, then add one cup of water and two cups Globe A-l flour 
and beat two minutes. Add two teaspoons burnt sugar syrup, one-half 
cup Globe A-l flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one teaspoon vanilla 
and lastly beaten whites of two eggs. Bake in three layers. Filling: One 
cup sugar, one-half cup water, two teaspoons burnt sugar syrup. Boil 
until it spins a thread and pour over beaten whites of two eggs; flavor 
with vanilla. To make syrup burn one-half cup sugar in saucepan till 
brown, add one-half cup hot water; cook till syrup. Mrs. W. G. Stone. 



NUT LOAF CAKE. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, three-fourths cup 
sour milk, one cup chopped nuts, two and one-half cups Globe A-l flour, 
four eggs beaten separately, one-half level teaspoon soda, one heaping 
teaspoon Hallifax Quality baking powder (use less of this powder than 
other powders), one-half grated nutmeg. Cream butter and sugar together 
and add yolks of eggs, then add alternately the sour milk in which the 
soda has been dissolved and two cups Globe A-l flour sifted with the Halli- 
fax Quality baking powder. Now add chopped nuts mixed with one-half 
cup of flour, nutmeg and beaten whites. Ice top and sides with boiled 
icing. Mrs. W. G. Stone. 



SPICE CAKES. 

Five eggs, one pound sugar, two teaspoonsful cinnamon, one-half 
teaspoonful cloves, one-eighth pound citron cut fine, one candied lemon 
peel, one pound well sifted Globe A-l flour. Beat whites of eggs to stiff 
froth, beat yolks until light; add both to sugar and stir ten minutes; add 
other ingredients in order named, adding Globe A-l flour last; roll into 
small balls, shape and size of walnuts; bake in moderate oven. L. D. K. 

40 



Phone: Main 220. 



DUTCH 
BLEND 
COFFEE 

T t 1 T T 11 T 
"The Drink of Quality" 



K 

kes 

smooth 
sailing 
at home. 




A mirror door is a necessity to the modern boudoir. 





$c (Eo. 



You can prepare many tasty Spanish dishes with Lucas' 
SPANISH SAUCE. - 




' ttfomal? Gkfr 



Prompt Delivery. 
Phone: Main 3350. 1011 Tenth Street. 




(Emmery 



3Fartnrg 



SACRAMENTO, CAL. 
Phone: Main 2926-J. 1710 K Street. 



41 



COLD WATER CAKE. 

One cup raisins, one cup currants, one-half cup lard or butter, one cup 
hot water, one teaspoon cinnamon, one-fourth teaspoon nutmeg, one-fourth 
teaspoon cloves. Boil together fifteen minutes and when cool add two cups 
Globe A-l flour, one-half teaspoon soda and one-half teaspoon Hallifax 
Quality baking powder (use less of this powder than of other powders). 
Bake forty minutes. F. H. 



POTATO FLOUR CAKE. 

Four eggs, whites and yolks beaten separate; into beaten whites mix 
one-half cup sugar, teatirg continuously; one cup potato flour, one tea- 
spoonful Halifax Quality baking powder (use less of this powder than other 
powders), one teaspoonful vanillia, pinch of salt. Filling of whipped cream 
and chopped nuts. Above will make two layers. Mrs. A. E. Stearns. 



SPIDER CORN CAKE. 

One and two-thirds cups Indian meal, one-third cup Globe A-l white 
flour, two eggs, one cup sour milk, one teaspoonful soda, one cup sweet 
milk, one-fourth cup sugar, one-half teaspoonful salt. Melt piece of butter 
the size of an egg in a hot spider, turn the mixture in and add one cup 
more of sweet milk, but do not stir. Bake one hour. Mrs. A. E. Stearns. 



SPECIAL FRUIT FROSTING. 

One and one-half cups powdered sugar, one medium tablespoon butter 
(creamed), two tablespoons orange or lemon juice, grating t!:e peel; or use 
grated pineapple, crushed berries or bananna. Mrs. Nicholas H. Bath. 



POUND CAKE. 

One cup butter, one cup Globe A-l flour, creamed together; one cup 
beaten eggs, one cup tugar, beaten together; put two parts together and 
beat for ten minutes; add one-half teaspoon Hallifax Quality baking powder 
(use less of this powder than of other powders), a dash of nutmeg. Bake 
one hour in a very moderate oven. F. H. 



SOUR MILK CAKE. 

One cup sugar, two eggs, one-half cup butter, one cup sour milk, one 
teaspoon soda, two cups Globe A-l flour, spices. Mrs. P. B. Ward. 



SPONGE CAKE. 

Four eggs, one small cup sugar, one small cup flour, two tablespoons 
cold water, one teaspoon Hallifax Quality baking powder (use less of this 
powder than of other powders), one teaspoon lemon extract. Mrs. P. B. 
Ward. 



CHILDREN'S SPONGE CAKE. 

One and one-half cups of Globe A-l flour, two teaspoons Hallifax 
Quality baking ponder (ute less of this powder than of other powders), one 
cup of sugar, two eggs broken in cup and cup filled with milk. Stir all 
together in bowl; beat hard for five minutes and bake about ten minutes 
in muffin pans or pan with chimney. Mrs. Whitman. 



DELICATE CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one and one-half cups of 
Globe A-l flour, one-half cup of sweet milk, the whites of four eggs, one 
teaspoon Hallifax Quality baking powder (use less of this powder than of 
other powders), one teaspoon of vanilla. Mrs. A. J. GiLson. 

42 



Eastern Styles Are Correct Styles 

Good Clothes 




LEO GARFINKLE, Mgr. 

The Store Where 1024-26 J Street, and 

Your Credit Is Good. 1014 Eleventh Street. 



Designing and Stamping. 

ART GOODS. 
Phone: Main 3691-J. 1016 K Street, Sacramento, Cal. 




WM. TRUST, Proprietor. 

Fine Candies, Ice Cream. Box Candies My Specialty. 
Phone: Main 728. 728 K Street, Sacramento, Cal. 

Ennis-Brown Company 

Commisison Merchants. 
Wholesale Fruit and Produce, Butter Cheese and Eggs. 

Potatoes, Onions and Beans in Car Lots a Specialty. 

OREGON AND NEVADA PRODUCTS A SPECIALTY. 

100 to 110 J Street. 1001 to 1023 Front Street. 



43 



BURNT SUGAR CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup milk, three whole eggs or 
whites of five, three and one-half cups sifted flour, two level teaspoons of 
Hallifax Quality baking powder (use less of this powder than of other 
powders), four teaspoons of caramel. Caramel Receipt: One-half cup of 
sugar burned slowly in a small frying pan until it makes a smooth black 
syrup; after taking from stove add one-fourth cup of water; add four tea- 
spoons to cake dough. Filling: Two cups sugar, one cup cream, three- 
fourths cup of butter; cook slowly until it will roll into a ball in water; 
after taking from stove beat until creamy. Mrs. M. Diggs. 



NUT LOAF CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, three-fourths cup butter, three-fourths cup milk, three 
cups sifted Globe A-l flour, whites of eight eggs, one and one-half level 
teaspoon of Hallifax Quality baking powder (use less of this powder than 
of other powders), one teaspoon vanilla, one cup English walnuts; roll nuts 
in Globe A-l flour. Mrs. M. Diggs. 



CARAMEL FILLING FOR CAKE. 

Two cups of brown sugar, one-half cup of cream or rich milk, one 
level tablespoon Globe A-l flour, one level tablespoon butter. Cream Globe 
A-l flour and butter: cook until it strings or rolls in ball; stir after taking 
from stove until cool; add one teaspoon of vanilla. Mrs. Samuel Terrill. 



MARSH MALLOW FILLING. 

Two cups granulated sugar, ten tablespoons hot water, one- fourth tea- 
spoon cieam of tartar. Boil until thick like candy, add thirty-two marsh- 
mallows and boil up again. Pour this over the whites of three eggs 
stiffly beaten and when almost cold stir in one cup chopped nuts; beat 
thoroughly. Mrs. Megowan. 



LIGHTENING CAKE. 

One and one-fourth cup Globe A-l flour, two teaspoons Hallifax Quality 
baking powder, one cup sugar sifted together three times; four tablespoons 
melted butter in a cup, on which drop two eggs (not beaten) and fill the 
cup with milk; flavor and mix thoroughly. Makes nice cup or layer cake. 
Mrs. C. L. Megowan. 



POTATO CARAMEL CAKE. 

Two-thirds cup butter, two cups sugar, one and three-fourths cups of 
Globe A-l flour, one cup mashed potatoes, one-half cup milk, four eggs, one 
cup grated chocolate, one teaspoon cinnamon, nutmeg and a pinch of 
cloves, one cup cuopped walnuts, two teaspoons Hallifax Quality baking 
powder (use less of this powder than of other powders). Cream butter and 
sugar and add egg yolks, three potatoes, spices, milk and chocolate; then 
add flour, putting the Halifax Quality baking powder in the last bit of 
Globe A-l flour; tnen put in ihe beaten egg whites and lastly add the nuts. 
Bake in layers. Mrs. Megowan. 



MOCK ANGEL FOOD CAKE. 

Sift four times one cup of Globe A-l flour, three teaspoons Halifax 
Quality baking powder (use less of this powder than of other powders), 
one cup of sugar and a pinch of salt. Into this pour one cup of boiling 
milk and beat until smooth; fold in very carefully the whites of two eggs, 
beaten. Bake in moderate oven; do not grease tin. Mrs. A. J. Gilson. 

44 



The Aristocrats 
ELECTRICS 





GRAHAM & LAMUS CO. 

1217 Seventh Street. Phone: Main 1913 



45 



GERMAN LEPKUTCHEN (CAKES). 

Two eggs well beaten with two cups dark brown sugar, one teaspoonful 
ground cloves, two of cinnamon, two cups of Globe A-l flour, one teaspoon 
of soda dissolved in hot water, one cup chopped nuts, preferrably almonds. 
Mix well and bake as small cookies, using about one tablespoonful of 
dough to make a cookey. L. Lothhammer. 



POTATO CARAMEL CAKE. 

Cream together two cups of sugar, one cup of butter and t v e yolks of 
four eggs; add one cup of hot mashed potatoes, one cup of milk, one-half 
teaspoon cinnamon, cloves and allspice, two cups of sifted Globe A-l flour, 
two teaspoons Hallifax Quality baking powder (use less of this powder 
than of other powders), one cup English walnuts ground fine, one teaspoon 
vanilla; lastly add the beaten whites of four eggs, bake in layers, or it may 
be made into a loaf cake. Filling: Two cups of powdered sugar, juice of 
one lemon, beaten v, hates of two eggs. Mrs. George W. McCoy, 2410 K St. 



CUP CAKE. 

Two cups Globe A-l flour, one cup sugar, one teaspoon soda, one-half 
cup butter, one cup sour milk, one cup raking, one-half teaspoonful nutmeg, 
one-half teaspoonful each cinnamon, cloves, allspice. Mrs. A. Lothhammer. 



LOAF CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, three eggs, two-tl irds cup milk, 
two cups Globe A-l flour, salt, flavor, two teaspoons Hal) if ax Quality baking 
powder (use less of this powder than of other powders), one-half cup 
chocolate; cinnamon, cloves, allspice, nutmeg, one-fourth teaspoon each. 



POTATO STARCH CAKE. 

Four eggs beaten separately, one-half cup sugar to whites and one-half 
cup sugar to yolks; one teaspoon flavoring, one-half cup potato starch, one 
teaspoon Hallifax Quality baking powder (use less of this powder than of 
other powders). Bake in two layers and spread whipped cream between 
layers and on top. P. N. M. 



SUNSHINE CAKE. 

Seven eggs, one and one-fourth cups sugar, one cup Globe A-l flour, 
scant one-third teaspoon cream tartar, pinch of salt added to whites before 
whipping; flavor to taste, sift, measure and set aside flour and sugar. 
Separate eggs, putting the whites in mixing bowl; beat whites to a foam, 
add cream of tartar and whip until very stiff; fold in sugar, yolks and 
flavor, and lastly fold in flour until it is mixed lightly through. Bake forty- 
five minutes. Mrs. C. H. 



POUND CAKE. 

One pound Globe A-l flour, one pound granulated sugar, three-fourths 
pound butter, nine eggs, one teaspoon Hallifax Quality baking powder (use 
lees of this powder than of other powders) ; bake one and one-fourth hours 
in a moderate oven and flavor with lemon and a little mace. 



FEATHER CAKE. 

One cup sugar, butter size of egg, three eggs, eight tablespoons milk, 
one cup Globe A-l flour, one and one-half teaspoon baking powder and one 
teaspoon vanilla. This makes three small layers. Filling: Boil two cups 
granulated sugar, one-half cup milk, one teaspoon butter, one teaspoon 
vanilla for ten minutes without stirring; then whip it until thick enough to 
spread without running. P. N. M. 

46 



NUT CAKE. 

One small cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups Globe A-l flour, two 
small teaspoons Hallifax Quality baking powder (use less of this powder 
than of other powders), one small cup milk, beat whites of six eggs to a 
froth, one cup chopped walnuts. Bake in a loaf cake one hour; flavor. 



GOLD CAKE. 

One large cup sugar, one cup butter, five egg yolks and one whole egg, 
one cup milk, two and one-half cups Globe A-l flour, two teaspoons Hallifax 
Quality baking powder (ute less of this powder than of other powders), 
sift flour and sugar three times; flavor with lemon. P. N. M. 



FARINA CAKE. 

Separate six eggs; in yolks add one and one-half cups sugar and beat 
thoroughly till very creamy; then beat whites till very stiff and mix with 
yolks and sugar lightly; one-fourth cup Farina, three-fourths cup sifted 
bread crumbs, three-fourths cup chopped nuts, three-fourths teaspoon 
Hallifax Quality baking powder (use less of this powder than of other 
powders), one-half teaspoon lemon and vanilla; bake in two layers twenty 
minutes; bake in tins with movable bottoms. This cake does not rise 
much, so you can almost fill tins. P. W. M. 



DATE ORIENTAL. 

One cup chopped walnuts, one cup stoned and quartered dates, two 
eggs well beaten, one tablespoon milk, one tablespoon Globe A-l flour, one 
teaspoon Hallifax Quality baking powder (use less of this powder than of 
other powders). Spread out in pan like cake and bake. Mrs. C. H, 



PISTACHIO CAKE. 

Cream together one cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, add one- 
hall cup milk or cream, stir in one cup Globe A-l flour and one cup corn 
starch with one teaspoon Hallifax Quality baking powder (use less of this 
powder than of other powders), add five drops bitter almond extract, two 
tablespoons orange flower water and fold in whites of six eggs beaten 
stiffly; bake in layers. Filling: Two cups sugar, one cup water, boil until 
it threads; pour over beaten whites of three eggs, color with green and 
add one-half teaspoon pistachio fiavoiing and four drops bitter almond 
extract and two heaping tablespoons of Pistachio (or chopped pine nuts 
when Pistachio nuts are not obtainable) ; beat until thick. This is one of 
the daintiest, prettiest and most delicious of cakes. F. H. 



BROWN STONE FRONT CAKE. 

Cream Part: One cup sugar, yolk of one egg, one cup grated chocolate, 
one cup sweet milk; stir together and boil in double boiler. Cake Part: 
Two-thirds cup sugar, one- half cup butter, two eggs, one-half cup sweet 
milk, two cups sifted Globe A-l flour. When this is mixed add cream part 
and one teaspoon soda dissolved in hot water; flavor with vanilla; bake in 
layers and put together with icing. C. L. Phinney. 



RAILROAD CAKE. 

Two cups Globe A-l flour, one cup sugar, two eggs, one-fourth cup 
butter, one-half cup milk, one and one-half teaspoons Hallit'ax Quality 
baking powder (use less of this powder than of other powders). Sift Globe 
A-l flour three times before measuring; now measure the two cups with 
Hallifax Quality baking powder and sift once more into bowl; add sugar 
without stirring; make depression in center and drop in the unbeaten 
eggs; melt butter and pour over eggs; add milk gradually while stirring 
and beat until light and creamy; flavor with vanilla. If cake seems a little 
thick add more milk a little at a time; bake in loaf and cover with boiled 
icing. C. L. Phinney. 

47 



SMALL CAKES AND COOKIES 



"Variety's the very spice of life, 
That gives it all its flavor." 

"So, likewise, must the felicitous wife 
Give to her sweetmeats savor." 



WALNUT WAFERS. 

Two eggs beaten with one cup brown sugar, one-half cup Globe A-l 
flour, one level teaspoon Hallifax Quality baking powder, vanilla and salt, 
one cup chopped nuts, two and one-talf tablespoons chocolate. Drop from 
spoon. 



OAT MEAL COOKIES. 

Two cups brown sugar, two-thirds cup lard, one egg, one-half cup sour 
milk, one-half teaspoon soda, salt, spices, four cups rolled oats, tablespoon 
flour, enough to roll out. Mrs. P. B. Ward. 



COCOANUT KISSES. 

Two egg whites, pinch of salt, three-fourths cup sugar, one teaspoon 
vanilla. Add cocoanut, form in small cones and bake on buttered tin 
twenty minutes in moderate oven. P. W. M. 



DOUGHNUTS. 

One egg, one cup sugar, one cup sour milk, three tablespoons lard, 
salt, soda, nutmeg, Globe A-l flour. Mix soft, roll out and fry in hot fat. 
Mrs. P. B. Ward. 



GERMAN CHRISTMAS COOKIES. 

Brown or molasses cookies: Two and one-half pounds syrup, three 
pounds Globe A-l flour, one teaspoon salt, soda, allspice, cloves, ginger, 
one-half spoon nutmeg, rinds of two lemons, one-fourth pound butter, one- 
fourth pound lard, one and one-fourth pounds of brown sugar, one cup 
boiling water, one dozen cardamon. Heat syrup first, put butter and lard 
in. When cool, add other ingredients. Mix evening before wishing to 
bake. Mrs. A. Heilbron. 



WALNUT WAFERS. 

Four eggs well beaten, two cups dark brown sugar, two cups chopped 
walnuts, six heaping tablespoons Globe A-l flour. Drop by teaspoonful 
well apart on buttered tin and bake in moderate oven. Mrs. W. G. Stone. 



BUTTER COOKIES. 

One cup sugar, three-fourth cup butter, two eggs, two tablespoons 
milk, two teaspoons Hallifax Quality baking powder (use less of this pow- 
der than of other powders), and about two cups Globe A-l flour, flavor with 
anis seed, roll out thin and bake. 



GINGER SNAPS. 

One-fourth pound butter, one-fourth pound light brown sugar, two tea- 
spoons soda (even), one wine glass milk, one quart Globe A-l flour, one- 
fourth pound lard, one pint New Orleans molasses, two tablespoons of 
ginger. 

48 



HERMITS. 

One cvp brown si 1 gar, two whole eggs, four tablespoons of sifted 
Globe A-l flour, one cup of chopped walnuts. P. N. M. 



POTATO DOUGHNUTS. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup milk, one cup mashed potatoes, butter size 
of a walnut, two teaspoons Hallifax Quality taking powder (use less of 
this powder than other powders), Globe A-l flour to roll. Mrs Elizabeth 
Taylor. 



WALNUT WAFERS. 

Four eggs well beaten, two cups dark brown sugar, two cups chopped 
walnuts, six heaping teaspoons Globe A-l flour. Drop by teaspoonful well 
apart on buttered tins. Bake in moderate oven. Mrs. W. G. Stone. 



FRAU FRAU. 

*One tablespoon butter, one tablespoon Globe A-l flour, one cup milk, 
one cup grated cheese. Beat yolks of four eggs. Cook in double boiler. 
Pour over beaten whites of four eggs. Serve on salted crackers. Mrs. W. 
G. Stone. 



COCOANUT KISSES. 

Whites of two eggs beaten stiff, add one cup granulated sugar and 
beat; add two cups cocoanut, one tablespoon cream, three tablespoons 
Globe A-l flour heaping. Drop by small teaspoonful well apart on buttered 
tins. Bake in slow oven. Mrs. W. G. Stone. 



DOUGHNUTS. 

Two eggs, one pint yellow sugar heaping, one pint sour milk, two 
level teaspoons soda, Globe A-l flour to make batter. Put soda with flour. 
Beat eggs well, tiien cream eggs with sugar. Bea^t eggs and sugar thor- 
oughly, the longer the better. Work as soft as possible with flexible knife, 
nutmeg. Mrs. W. G. Stone. 

SPICE CUP CAKES. 

One-half cup molasses, one-half cup sugar, one-fourth cup butter (or 
half butter and half critca), one-half cup sour milk, one level teaspoon 
salt, one-half teaspoon of cinnamon, one-half teaspoon allspice, one-half 
teaspoon ginger, pinch of cloves, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in 
boiling water, two cups Globe A-l flour. Bake in moderate oven and 
watch carefully. 



CANDY 

'Sweets to the sweet. 



KINDERGARTEN CANDY. 

Two cups brown sugar, one-half cup milk, one teaspoon butter. When 
done flavor to taste, add one-half cup cocoanut and pour on buttered plates 
to cool. Mrs. Clarke E. Bell, 2001 H street. 



CANDIES. 

Three cups granulated sugar, one-half cup water, one-half strained 
honey, one teaspoon lemon extract, two egg whites. Boil together until 
the mixture hardens in cold water, then pour it slowly over the well 
beaten whites of two eggs. Flavor and beat together until stiff enough 
to drop on buttered paper. One cupful of chopped nut meats may be 
added. P. N. M. 

49 



MARSHMALLOWS. 

One envelope Knox sparkling gelatine, two cups (one pint) granulated 
sugar, few grains salt and flavoring to taste. Soak the gelatine in ten 
tablespoons cold water. Heat the sugar with ten tablespoons water till 
dissolved. Add gelatine to syrup and let stand until partially cooled, add 
salt and flavoring, beat with a whip until too stiff, then with a large spoon 
until only soft enough to settle into a sheet. Dust granite pans thickly 
with confectioner's sugar, pour in the candy about half an inch deep and 
set in cool place until tl oroughly chilled. Turn out, cut in cubes and roll 
in confectioner's sugar. This recipe will make one hundred marshmallows 
Mrs. E. E. Rose. 



PUFFED RICE BRITTLE. 

One ten-cent package puffed rice, one cup of sugar, one-half cup Karo 
corn syrup, one-half cup of water, one teaspoon vinegar, butter size of 
walnut. To te&t drop from spoon into cold water. Remove from fire as 
soon as brittle. Then quickly put in rice, mix well and put in buttered 
pan. When partly cool, press down with hands. Verna Swan. 



CARAMELS. 

One-half cup molasses, one-half cup sugar, one-fourth pound chocolate 
(grated), one-half cup milk, one large teaspoon butter. Stir constantly 
until it hardens in cold water. Pour into buttered pans and cut in squares 
as it cools. Mary Jones. 



NUT LOAF. 

- Two cups sugar, one-half cup white Karo syrup, one-half cup milk. 
Boil to soft ball degree, take off stove and beat slowly into two well 
beaten egg whites. Add nuts and flavoring. Beat very stiff and pour into 
deep pan. Cut in squares. Gladys Book. 



AVIATION YUM YUM. 

One and one-half cups dark brown sugar, one and one-half cups light 
brown sugar, one cup milk, butter size of walnut. Boil until it forms soft 
ball in water, take off stove, add a little vanilla. One cup walnuts. Beat 
till quite stiff and pour into buttered pans. When cool cut in squares. 
Eva Contell. 



PATIENCE. 

One and one-half cups white sugar, three-fourths cup milk, butter size 
of walnut. When boiling hard pour in one-half cup sugar which has been 
melted and browned in saucepan. Cook until it forms soft ball in cold 
water. Stir until cool and pour over one cup nuts. Cut in squares. The 
Misses Whittenbrock. 



' SEA FOAM. 

Two cups of brown sugar, one-half cup of milk. Boil until it hardens 
in water. Pour over the well beaten white of two eggs. Flavor with 
mapleine. Stir until it begins to thicken, tl en drop from teaspoon on 
oiled paper. Clara Harris. 



LEMON TAFFY. 

Two cups of white sugar, one cup of boiling water, one-fourth cup of 
vinegar, one-thiid cup of butter. Boil till biittle, flavor with lemon and 
pour into butter plates and when cool pull till done. Mrs. F. Weismau. 

50 



THE ECONOMY 
DEPARTMENT STORE CO. 

Sixth and L. 

Has a wonderful assortment of Holiday Goods, Toys, Dolls, 

Pictures at far less than K-street prices. 

WE ALWAYS SELL FOR LESS. 

KAESER'S 

Faultless Sanitary Machine Made Bread 

Baked only by 
KAESER'S BAKERY 

3206 Fourth Ave. Sacramento, Cal. 

Phones: Capital 741; Capital 253- Y. 

Mason's 
Steam Laundry 

Mrs. Fred Mason, Prop. 

FIRST CLASS WORK. 

Phone: Main 211. 2030 O Street, Cor. Twenty-first. 

Baker Sisters 
Shampoo Parlors 

Facial Massage, Manicuring, Scalp Treatment, Shampooing. 

Phones: Office 2731-R. Res. 4987- Y. 

315 Forum Building. Ninth and K Streets. 

Sacramento, Cal. 



51 



FUDGE. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, tablespoon butter, four tablespoons 
chocolate, two teaspoons corn starch. Cook until it forms a soft ball when 
dropped in cold water. Beat until it begins to thicken, then turn into 
buttered pan. Mona Peters. 



CREAM CANDY (or Fondant). 

Two cups confectioner's sugar, three-fourths cup water. Boil until "t 

will form a soft, ball when dropped in water. Remove from stove, flavor 

and stir until creamy. Mould into small balls with hands. Is very nice 
after dipped in chocolate. Mrs. Roy Bratton. 



HONEY TAFFY CANDY. 

Two cups sugar, three-fourths cup of Foney, two tablespoons butter, 
one-third cup of water. Flavor .v ith vanilla, cook fast in saucepan until 
brittle wren dropped in cold water. As soon as it can be handled pull 
until white. Cut in cubes before too hard. Gertrude Morrison. 



CREAMED PEPPERMINT WAFERS. 

One cup sugar, one-fourth cup hot water. Boil five minutes, flavor 
with three drops of peppermint, stir almost thick, then drop on oiled 
papers in small or large drops as preferred. Ruth Scott. 



DIVINITY CANDY. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup Karo corn syrup. Fill the one-half cup 
of syrup with lot water, pour on the sugar and cook until it rolls in ball 
in water. Pour it over the white of one egg well beaten. Stir in flavoring 
and nuts. Beat until thick, put on greased plate to cool. Mrs. W. D. 
Washburn. 



PENOCHE. 

Three cups brown sugar, one cup milk, one cup chopped walnuts, one- 
half cup cream, butter size of an egg. Boil until it forms a soft ball in 
water. Stir often to keep from burning. Beat and when almost thick add 
the nuts and one teaspoonful of vanilla. Turn into greased tin and when 
firm cut into squares. (I usually use Carnation cream one cup diluated, 
one-half cup pure.) Eva McLean. 



PEANUT CANDY. 

Two cups white sugar, one cup corn syrup, two cups shelled peanuts 
(raw), one-half cup of water, one tablespoon butter, one-half teaspoon 
vanilla, two generous teaspoons baking soda. Cook sugar, syrup and 
water until it bubbles, then add butter and peanuts and cool till nuts turn 
brown and skins crack. After removing from fire, stir in vaniila and add 
soda. Pour immediately on a number of buttered plates, when cool stretch 
out. 

N. B. Stir all the time while cooking or nuts will settle to the bottom 
and burn. Mrs. W. G. Stone. 



COCOANUT CANDY. 

One cocoanut, one and one-half pounds of granulated sugar. Put sugar 
and rnilk of cocoanut together. Beat slowly until sugar is melted, then 
boil for five minutes, add cocoanut (finely grated), boil ten minutes longer. 
Stir constantly to keep from burning. Pour on butteied plates, cut in 

squares. Will take two days to harden. Use prepared cocoanut when 

other cannot be had. Marion Perkins. 

52 



PEANUT BRITTLE. 

Two cups granulated sugar, two cups shelled roasted peanuts, two 
tablespoons butter, one-eighth teaspoon soda. Caramelize the sugar till 
light brown, add the butter and soda, beat in quickly, stir in nuts and 
spread at once on an inverted tin. Use a clean, smooth omelet pan for 
caramelizing the sugar. Heat slowly at first, so the sugar will not burn 
before melting and stir gently with the back of the spoon. P. N. M. 



PEANUT CREAMS. 

Two cups light brown sugar, three-fourths cup hot water, few grains 
of salt, one-half cup melted butter, one cup peanut meats. Beat together 
thoroughly, then cook until the mixture forms a soft ball in cold water. 
Remove from fire and add the butter. Beat until creamy and stir in the 
peanut meats, which have been browned in the oven with a little butter. 



NUTMEG FUDGE. 

Two cups light brown sugar, three-fourths cup rich milk, few grains 
of salt, one-fourth cup grated chocolate, one-fourth teaspoon nutmeg. Mix 
and cook ingredients until soft ball forms in cold water, take from fire 
and cool, then add butter, salt and nutmeg and beat until creamy. P. N. M. 

ICE CREAM AND ICES 

"We are such stuff as dreams are made of, so coldly sweet." 



THE EASY WAY TO MAKE ICE CREAM. 

Use one quart of milk for a package of Jell-O Cream Powder. Pour 
the contents of one package of Jell-O Ice Cream Powder in a dish. Pour 
on it one cup of milk and stir to a thick, smooth paste, to avoid lumps. 
Add the rest of the quart of milk, stir until thoroughly dissolved, and 
freeze. 



STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

One pint of cream, three small boxes strawberries, one and one-half 
cupfuls sugar, crush the berries, add sugar, and let stand for several hours. 
Strain, mix with cream and freeze. Enough for eight. Serve in glasses. 



FROZEN BANANAS. 

One dozen bananas, one pound sugar, one pint of water, two oranges 
(juice only), one pint cream. Boil water and sugar together for five min- 
utes, strain and when cold add orange juice and well mashed bananas. 
Freeze, turning slowly. When frozen remove dasher and stir the whipped 
cream in carefully. Repack and set away to harden. 



MINT ICE TO SERVE WITH ROAST LAMB. 

Boil together for five minutes a pint of water, one cupful of sugar and 
the pounded leaves from twelve stalks of spearmint. Cool. Add the juice 
of a lemon and strain. Add five drops of "apple-green" coloring and four 
drops of oil of spearmint. Freeze. This will serve six persons in sherbet 



CAFE PARFAIT. 

One pint cream, whipped, one cupful sugar, two tablespoonsful strong 
coffee. Whip all together until thick; pour into a mold; pack in ice and 
salt, and let stand without stirring four or five hours. 

53 



ORANGE WATER ICE. 

One quart water, one pound granulated sugar, juice of four oranges, 
juice of one lemon, white of one egg, one drop of orange or pink coloring. 
Melt sugar with water. Add juice of oranges and lemon. Add coloring 
and white of egg. Strain and freeze. 



, ROOT BEER ICE CREAM. 

One tablespoon vanilla ice cream put into an ice tea glass, pour on 
enough root beer to fill glass. Serve with straw and spoon, like soda. 
Very refreshing. L. D. K. 

PRESERVES AND PICKLES 

"The royal tree has let us royal fruit." 



ISABELLA GRAPE JAM. 

Squeeze tfce pulp of grapes out of the skin; cook the pulp for a few 
moments so you can press through sieve to reject the seeds; add a little 
water to the skins and cook till they are quite tender; put skins and pulp 
together and to each pint add one pound sugar and boil fifteen minutes. 



FIG JAM. 

Three pounds figs, three pounds sugar, three oranges, three lemons; 
seed the oranges and lemons and cut into thin slices and add one cup 
water; then add figs and sugar, and cook until stiff enough to keep in 
glasses. 



GRAPE PRESERVES. 

- Weigh the grapes and allow three-fourths pound sugar to one pound 
fruit; rinse bunches of grapes in cold water, drain and squeeze pulp from 
skins; heat pulp gradually and cook until seeds come out easily, ten or 
fifteen minutes; pass through sieve just fine enough to keep back seeds; 
cook skins and pulp ten minutes; add sugar and cook until liquid thickens. 



ORIENTAL JAM. 

One pound currant juice, two pounds seeded raisins, three pounds 
mashed currants, four pounds brown sugar; put currant juice on stove and 
cook about ten minutes; then put in raisins; let them heat while mashing 
currants and sugar, and cook twenty minutes; cut two oranges and two 
lemons into small pieces; stir into the mixture and cook all together; put 
into jelly glasses and seal same as jelly. 



PLUM CONSERVE. 

Five pounds tart plums cut small, one cup chopped nuts, one cup 
chopped raisins, juice of three oranges and rind of one orange cut in small 
cubes and cooked until tender; sugar cup for cup; cook down and put in 
jelly glasses. 



CURRANT CONSERVE. 

Three quarts currants, four large oranges chopped, two pounds raisins 
chopped, weight in sugar; cook twenty minutes and put in jelly glasses. 

54 



Leslie Shaker Salt 




Always dry and free running will not clog in shaker. 

Packed in a sealed carton with the patented side spout for pouring. 

Ask your grocer for the package with the spout on the side. 




Pure Potato Flour 



In 1-lb. Packages 
For Puddings, Cakes, Etc. 

All Grocers. 
See directions on Package. 



55 



MARMALADE (Excellent). 

One orange, one lemon, one grapefruit, sugar; shave the fruit very 
thin, rejecting nothing but the seeds and cores; measure the fruit and add 
to it three times the quantity of water; let stand in earthen dish over 
night; next morning boil for ten minutes and let stand another night; then 
add sugar, pint for pint; boil steadily until mixture jellies. 



BRANDY PEACHES. 

Seven pourds peaches, four pounds sugar, one cup vinegar, one quart 
water; boil water and sugar ten minutes; add vinegar; t^en add two cloves 
to each peach, tome stick cinnamon, one cup and a half of brandy after 
peaches cook. 



CRANBERRY CONSERVE. 

One quart cranberries, one-fourth to one-half cup nuts, one cup raisins, 
one and one-half to two cups sugar, one-fourth cup water, juice and grated 
rind of two oranges: cook cranberries, raisins and water until cranberries 
break slightly; add sugar and orange rird; cook until thick enough to 
stand when cool; add nuts and orange juice; pour in molds to cool. 



PRESERVE OF DAMSON PLUMS. 

Stone seven pounds Damson plums; put in a kettle one and one-half 
pints vinegar, three and one-half pounds brown sugar, one tablespoonful 
powdered cloves and a little mace; boil and skin well; then put in the fruit 
and let it boil well; take out fruit and boil down syrup; then mix all 
together and put in earthen crock. 



ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Four large sweet oranges, four lemons, three grapefruits, twelve 
pounds sugar, four quarts water; cut fruit very fine, removing all seeds 
and tough inner skin and pith; cover with water and let stand forty-eight 
hours; then add sugar and boil until thick; must boil slowly at first. The 
fruit should all be large and juicy. 



PEACH CONSERVE. 

Three pounds peaches, one cup water, three pounds sugar, one pound 
raisins, one-half pound English walnuts; pare and slice peaches and 
oranges; add sugar and raisins and one cup water; cook until stiff enough 
to keep in glasses; add the nuts just as you take off the stove. 



PRESERVED FIGS (Fresh). 

The figs should not be too ripe; after washing steam until tender; 
have ready a boiling syiup made of tAvo pounds of sugar to one pint of 
water; put a little syrup into a heated jar and fill in the hot steamed figs, 
adding boiling syrup as you fill to prevent figs packing together. 



MELON RIND PRESERVED. 

Pare outer skin and cut into shapes; green them by simmering with 
vine leaves and a little alum; make a syrup of one cup of sugar to one 
pint of water; put in all kinds of ground spices, and simmer until done 
through and translucent; boil down syrup afterwards and add rind just 
before finishing. 

56 



PRUNE PICKLE. 

Seven pounds ripe prunes (wash, do not remove pits), three and one- 
half pounds sugar, one pint vinegar, one-half teaspoon cloves, cinnamon, 
allspice; boil down until thick; does not have to be sealed. 



PICKLED FIGS. 

Five pounds fruit (light figs), three pounds sugar, one pint vinegar, 
one tablespoon cinnamon and allspice, one teaspoon cloves, a bit of salt; 
cook about twenty minutes till fruit begins to wrinkle. 



RIPE TOMATO PICKLE. 

This does not need to be cooked and keeps indefinitely. Fifteen pounds 
tomatoes (skin, chop and drain), two cups chopped onions, two cups 
chopped celery, one cup grated horseradish, one cup salt, two cups sugar, 
four large green peppers (chopped), one good crisp cabbage (chopped), 
one-half pound white mustard seed, one teaspoon each of ground cloves, 
mace, cinnamon and black pepper; three quarts cider vinegar, two whole 
horeradish roots; put in crock; stir often; good for use in two weeks. 



INDIAN CHUTNEY. 

Twelve apples, one onion, two green peppers, one red pepper, one cup 
chopped raisins, one pint cider vinegar, two cups sugar, juice of two 
lemons, one pound ground ginger, one-fourth teaspoon cayenne, one table- 
spoon salt; chop apples, onions and peppers very fine; add vinegar and 
simmer one hour, stir often; add other ingredients and cook half an hour 
longer, stirring constantly; seal in sterile jars. 



ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Four large navel oranges sliced very thin, add three quarts of cold 
water and let stand over night. Next morning cook slowly for forty-five 
minutes. Let cool. Measure and for every quart of fruit and juice add 
two and one-half pounds of sugar. Return to fire and cook slowly one hour 
and forty -five minutes. When about half done add four lemons sliced thin. 
Mrs. Agnes Downing. 



SUGARED FIGS. 

Thirty figs, one cup water, one cup sugar. When sugar and water 
come to a boil put figs in carefully; let boil slowly one hour. Dip out of 
liquor place on platter and set in sun. Next morning place figs in same 
liquor, boil one hour and place in sun as before. Repeat third morning 
and leave in sun until dry enough. Roll in coarse granulated sugar and 
pack in tin box lined with wax paper. Mrs. A. E. Stearns. 



SPECIAL FIGS. 

Seven pounds of figs, three and one-half pounds sugar, one pint of 
vinegar, one-half cup water, one teaspoonful whole cloves, two teaspoonsful 
stick cinnamon. Boil vinegar, sugar, water and spices together or until 
well heated. Put two cloves in each fig. Boil fruit until tender, place in 
jars, pour over enough of hot syrup and seal. Mrs. Clarke E. Bell. 

57 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Page. 

Table of Weights and Measures , 1 

To Serve Fifty People 2 

Appetizers 4 

Soups 5 

Fish 6-8-10 

Entrees 11 

Meats and Poultry 12-14-16-17-18 

Salads and Salad Dressings 20-22-23 

Vegetables 24-25-26 

Bread 27-28-29-30 

Pastry 32-33 

Pudding 34-35-36 

Punch 38 

Cakes 38-40-42-44-46-47 

Candies -*- 49-50-52-53 

Small Cakes and Cookies 48-49-50-52 

Ice Cream and Ices 53 

Preserves and Pickles 54-56-57 

Blanks for Extra Recipes 60-61 -62-63-64 



58 



INDEX TO ADVERTISERS 



Art Dealers. 

Pag-e. 

M. S. Azevedo 43 

Taylor's Art China Store _ 13 

Automobile Dealers. 
Graham and Lamus 45 

Automobile Rentals. 
Transbay Auto Association Outside back cover 

Automobile Tires. 
Fisk Rubber Co 21 

Bakeries. 
Kaeser's Bakery 51 

Banks. 

California Savings Bank _ Outside front cover 

Fort Sutter National Bank _ 13 

National Bank of D. O. Mills 3 

The Peoples Savings Bank 37 

Coffee. 
Leon Lewis _ _ 41 

Confectioners. 

Ryan's 9 

Trust's _ 43 

Creameries. 
Bentley's _ 41 

Fish and Oysters. 
American Fish Co 9 

Groceries. 
Clarke's 15 

Hair Dressing. 
Baker Sisters __ _ 51 

Ice Cream. 

Bentley's 41 

Clarke's _ 15 

Jobbers. 

California Wall Paper Mills _ . 13 

Ennis-Brown Co _ _ 43 

W. P. Fuller & Co _.._ _ 41 

Kirk, Geary & Co _ 37 

Schaw-Batcher Co 13 

Wood-Curtis Co 39 

Ladles' Specialty Shop. 

Eastern Outfitting Co _ 43 

The Economy Department Store _ _ 51 

Laundries. ' 

M Street Laundry _ _ 31 

Mason's Laundry _ 51 

People's Wet Wash _ 15 

Sacramento Steam Laundry 19 

Lumber. 
Oak Park Lumber and Milling Co 19 

Paints and Oils. 
Emerick & Duncan Co 19 

Photographer. 
Bushnell _ _ 7 

Raisins. 

American Vineyard Co _ Insert 

Real Estate. 

Heilbron Realty Co -..- 19 

Salt. 

Leslie's Salt Refining Co 55 

Tamales. 

Lucas" Tamale Cafe 41 

Tents and Awnings. 

Rivett _ _ 15 

Wall Paper. 

California Wall Paper Mills . 13 

Wood and Coal. 
Dunbar & Son - 15 

59 



Ills 

Not Necessary to 
Buy a Car 

To^njoy the pleasures of motoring, rent 
a car from us, 5c per mile. Any time, 
any place. You drive the car. If inex- 
perienced, we teach you to drive. A re- 
quest by mail or phone will bring full 
information. 

THE TRANS-BAY 
AUTO RENTING 

ASSOCIATION 

1325 J Street-Phone Main 1108 

Sacramento, Cal. 

Branches : 

San Jose, Richmond, San Francisco 
Oakland and Berkeley 



SUTTER PRESi ge, 925 L STREET 



