TX715 
^W594 



























'^ov* .^'^fia^5.-. '-^^o^ 



^o 










'•o*" \--W*<s* \/W\/ vW\-* </^ 







v-^v V'^V %"*^*/ v^-> 



^* ^ %> 







-i^^^v 




>. *«W,-* aO 




> - « • » - t V> »3. ■■ « » 

• rf5;^W^*^« ^> 




iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiu^ 



Housewives Favorite 

Recipes 



for COLD DISHES, DAINTIES 

CHILLED DRINKS 

ETC. 



Compiled by 

White Enamel Refrigerator Co. 

Makers of the Famous 
Bohn Syphon Refrigerators 

St. Paul, U. S. A. 



llllllllllllllllllllllllllllliillliiilllilllli^ 



>s 






n 



Copyright 1916 

White Enamel Refrigerator Co. 

St. Paul, U. S. A. 




m 27 ia*i6 



Press of 
Louis F. Dow Co. 
St. Paul, U. S. A. 



S)Ji.A418633 



INDEX 

Beverages 106 

Bread Mixtures 100 

Cakes and Cookies 10 

Candies and Icings 61 

Canning 64 

Cocktails 98 

Desserts 73 

Frozen Dishes 32 

How to Clean a Refrigerator 8 

How to Operate a Refrigerator 7 

How to Test a Refrigerator 6 

Invalid Cookery 30 

Measures 9 

Meat, Fish and Egg Dishes 116 

Menus 27 

Proper Refrigeration of Food S 

Relishes 67 

Salads 40 

Sandwiches 103 



Introductory 



In offering this book of Housewives Favorite Recipes 
to the public, our motive is to lessen the burden of the 
housewife by furnishing her with recipes of nutritious 
and palatable dishes that can be prepared in advance, 
placed away in the refrigerator and kept against the time 
that she may desire to serve. 

Most of the hardships of kitchen work come from the 
fact that it deprives many housewives of the pleasure of 
entertaining. The thought of going into a hot kitchen, 
after an evening at the theatre, to prepare a luncheon 
destroys all the anticipated pleasure of such an event. 

But with the many choice recipes in this book on 
her kitchen table, she can easily prepare in advance a 
tempting repast and place it in her refrigerator knowing 
it will be in perfect condition, whenever she is ready to 
serve it. 

These recipes have been carefully selected by Domes- 
tic Science Experts from many thousands of the favorite 
recipes sent in by housewives from all parts of the United 
States. 

Each recipe has been carefully edited and the pro- 
portions brought to a standard basis of measurements, 
and we give a table showing just how to use the measures 
called for thruout the book. 

We are confident you will find no such collection of 
recipes for cold dishes, dainties, chilled drinks, relishes, 
etc., in any other work, and we offer it believing it fills 
a want in culinary literature that will be appreciated by 
the American Housewife. 

JVhite Enamel Refrigerator Co. 

St. Paul, Minn. 



The Proper Refrigeration 
of Food 

We all understand that by putting food in a "cold" place it will keep fresh 
for some time. 

But in order to keep food fresh, pure and wholesome, we must do more 
than merely put it in a cold place. 

There must be a free and rapid circulation of pure, fresh, dry air over the 
food and over the ice at all times. 

The cold checks the multiplication of germs and the air ^''•'^^'1^^'°" ^°1'^"^J 
the impurities and deposits them on the ice, so that they are earned off through 
the drain pipe. 

A refrigerator to be safe, must have a temperature of fifty degrees or under, 
as germfwiU muhiply rapidly In temperatures that are any warmer than this. 

A refrigerator to be safe, must have a dry circulation of air You cannot 
keep food frS and wholesom^ in a damp place for it will mould, lose its flavor 
and become unfit for use in a very short time. 

A refrigerator to be safe, must have a free, unobstructed circulation of 
air that will collect the odors and impurities that are constantly given off by 
Xe food aTd deposits them on the ice so they will be carried out of the refrigera- 
tor through the drain pipe. In this way the food remains pure and wholesome 
with its delicacy and taste unaffected. 

A refrigerator to be safe, must be more than an ice box. You cannot 
maintain a good circulation of ^ir in an ice box full of ce. .If there are obstruc- 
tions the air forms back currents of dead air, thus keeping all odors and _im- 
puHties in the refrigerator and saturating the food and destroying its original 
taste and wholesomeness. 

To sum up. Mere "cold" is not sufficient, nor does the fact that an ice box 
is fuU of Tee mean that the box is doing its work as it should. There's a definite 
process of purification going on in every good refrigerator. This process of 
purification can only be obtained by unobstructed rapid circulation. 
^Unless you have such a circulation in your refrigerator, it is merely an 
"ice box" — not a refrigerator. 

The refrigerator is the most important thing in the whole subject of scien- 
tific food keeping, and it is vital that you have the best refrigerator. 



How to Test a 
Refrigerator 



A dry, free circulation of cold air, fifty degrees or under, being necessary 
to the proper refrigeration of food, we give you a few simple and easy tests by 
which you can determine if your refrigerator is safe to use. 

Put your hand in the refrigerator and if the circulation is good, you can 
feel fresh, cold dry air actually "blowing" through it, like a cool breeze on a 
summer evening. 

Wet two towels together, then hang one in the room and the other in your 
refrigerator. If your refrigerator is as dry as it should be, the towel in it will 
become dry first. 

Put a few matches in your refrigerator and leave them over night, then try 
to light one on the inside of your refrigerator. If you can light the match yotl 
have a good, dry refrigerator. 

Keep a little salt or a few matches in your refrigerator all the time, and look 
at them every day. As soon as they appear to be in the least damp, see if all 
the doors of your refrigerator are closing as they should, and if anything is being 
placed on the food shelves so as to obstruct the passage of the air currents. 

Butter has been kept in a dry refrigerator until all of the moisture has been 
dried out, nothing but the fats and oils remaining. Thi§ remainder, minus its 
color and original moisture is perfectly sweet and edible. 

The subject of refrigerators is of enough importance to every man and 
woman, especially those who have children, to compensate for the little trouble 
necessary in making the above tests. The refrigerator is the "safe" in which 
you keep that most valuable of valuables, the family health. See that it is a 
good "safe." 



How to Operate a 
Refrigerator 



Here are a few simple directions which, if followed, will insure your refrig- 
erator giving the best results. 

1. Fill the ice chamber with ice, close all doors, and let the refrigerator 
stand at least twenty-four hours before putting in the provisions. This will 
start the air circulating and purify the refrigerator. 

2. Keep the ice chamber full of ice at all times. This insures perfect 
circulation, and aside from its purifying action, has more to do with the saving 
of ice bills than any other one feature connected with the operation of a refrig- 
erator. You may buy smaller pieces more often, but the total number of 
pounds of ice will be found to be a great deal less each month. Try this for a 
few months and see how it works out. 

3. Never put anything but ice in the ice chamber. This is very important. 
The circulating air gathers in all the odors and impurities and deposits them on 
the ice to be carried off in the drainage as the ice melts. If you crowd the ice 
chamber with vegetables, fruit, etc., these odors and impurities fall partly on 
them and really make them unfit for food. This placing of food in the ice 
chamber also seriously hinders the circulation. It can not be impressed on you 
too strongly — Circulation in a refrigerator is just like the breathing of a human 
being — it is just as necessary to the value of a refrigerator as breathing is to 
the life of a human. Don't "choke" your refrigerator. Let it "breathe." 

4. Always keep the doors closed tight. Thousands of dollars worth of ice 
every day is wasted in this country by refrigerator doors which are "not quite 
shut." Thousands of dollars worth of food is thus made unsafe because no 
refrigerator can maintain a safe temperature under such conditions. 

Furthermore — and just as important is the fact that if the doors are not 
kept tightly closed the cold air from inside the refrigerator will, upon meeting 
the warmer outside air, condense on the doors and side of refrigerator, and the 
moisture thus formed is bound to cause swelling and warping of the lumber. 

5. See that the food is properly placed in the refrigerator. Always place 
your delicacies — butter, cream, milk, etc. — on the bottom shelves, meats and 
similar foods on the second shelf from the bottom, and all articles emitting 
strong odors, such as oranges, pine apples, bananas, vegetables, fish, cheese, etc., 
on the upper shelves, but do not pack them so closely as to shut off circulation. 
For this reason, do not buy a refrigerator that is too small for your family needs. 

If you are to keep your refrigerator pure and sweet you must follow the 
above rules in operating. There is only one right way. 



How to Clean a 
Refrigerator 



No refrigerator, no matter how well made, can keep food sweet and clean 
if it is not so kept. And no refrigerator is a clean one unless air circulates 
throughout the food compartments. It is really almost futile to clean a refrig- 
erator that has not the proper action always going on inside. It soon con- 
taminates itself. 

Cleansing the corners does not help unless the ice collects the impurities. 
If these impurities are left to "roam around the refrigerator" the clean corners 
soon become foul. 

The necessity of keeping the refrigerator spotlessly clean is very great. 

A single drop of spilled milk or of other food can contaminate a refrigerator 
in a few days. One drop of milk if so neglected can develop 40,000,000 bacteria. 
If there happens to be a disease germ in that drop, think what it means. 

In cleaning the refrigerator use a sponge or soft cloth and warm water. 
Don't use any old sponge or cloth and any kind of water. Use water that you 
would drink and a special clean cloth or sponge. 

With these implements it is easy to make your refrigerator spick and span 
with but a few simple movements of the hand. The refrigerator must be with- 
out cracks, crevices and sharp corners so that the cloth or sponge touches all of 
the surface. The surface, too, should be of hard, white china-plate porcelain, 
smooth, non-porous and with rounded corners so that germs and food cannot 
become firmly lodged right in the walls, as is possible when the refrigerator has 
walls of more or less rough material. 

Porcelain is not necessary in the ice chamber, for when germs get that far 
they are "gathered in" by the ice. 

You wouldn't live in a germ-growing room. Your "ice boxes," through no 
fault of yours, are often regular "germ incubators" however, and you practically 
live in them. They should be kept "cleaner" than any room in your home. 
There isn't anything in the world so important as cleanliness. The word simply 
means "freedom from germs." We used to hear of the "germ theory." Now 
we never hear the "theory." Germs are monstrous little facts. The great wars 
of civilization of the future will be wars on germs. 






HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



I i 

4. — « — . — . — . — . — .«►..-«.,« — . ,•..-..* 



A 



S correct measurements are absolutely necessary to insure successful results 
in cooking, all the recipes in this book call for level measures. The 
leveling to be done with a case knife. 

Flour, meal powdered and confectioner's sugar and soda should be sifted 
before measuring. Mustard and baking powder often settle in the cans, there- 
fore should be stirred to lighten. Salt lumps easily and the lumps should be 
broken before measuring. These should be put into the measure with a scoop 
or spoon and not packed hard. 

To measure butter, lard, etc., pack solidly into the cup or spoon, and make 
level with a knife. If the fat is very hard, cut it into small pieces before measur- 
ing. 

To measure a spoonful of any dry substance, dip the spoon into the substance, 
fill it, lift it, and level it with a knife. 

For half a spoonful divide lengthwise. 

For a quarter of a spoonful divide the half crosswise. 

For an eighth spoonful divide the quarter diagonally. 

Less than one-eighth of a teaspoonful is considered a few grains. 

A cupful of liquid is all the cup can hold. 

A tea or tablespoonful of liquid is all the spoon can hold. 

ABBREVIATIONS. EQUIVALENTS. 

tsp teaspoonful 3 tsp equals 1 tbsp. 

tbsp tablespoonful 4 tbsp equals J^ c. 

c cupful 2 c equals 1 pt. 

pt pint 2 pts equals 1 qt. 

qt quart 4 qts equals 1 gallon. 

oz ounce 4 c. (about) of flour equals 1 lb. 

lb pound 2 c. of sugar equals 1 lb. 

min minutes 16 tbsp. of dry ingredients equals 1 c. 

h hour 12 tbsp. of liquid " equals 1 c. 

Next to measuring comes care in combining. 

Three ways are considered: — Stirring, Beating, Cutting and Folding. 

To Stir. — Mix by using circular motion; widening the circles until all is mixed. 

To Beat. — Turn ingredients over and over, continually bringing the under 
part to the surface. 

To Cut and Fold. — Combine one ingredient with another ingredient or 
mixture by two motions with a spoon, a repeated vertical downward motion, 
known as cutting, and a turning over and over of mixture, allowing bowl of spoon 
each time to come in contact with bottom of dish, called folding. 

By stirring, ingredients are mixed. 

By beating, a large amount of air is enclosed. 

By cutting and folding, air already introduced is prevented from escaping. 



10 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



! 
I 

i 
i I 



Cafee 



CAKE may be divided into Two Classes: 
Without Butter — Example: Sponge Cake, Angels Food, 
Sunshine Cake. 
With Butter — Example: Cup and Pound Cake. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

See that the fire is right. 

Have materials and utensils ready, including a plate on which to 
lay sticky spoons, etc. 

Butter the pans; buttered paper may be used to line the pans or 
the pans may be buttered and then sprinkled with flour. 

Measure dry ingredients, then liquid. 

Cream the butter with a wooden spoon in an earthen bowl which 
may be warmed slightly. 

Beat the yolks with a Dover egg-beater. 

Beat the whites with a spider-web or a Dover egg-beater. 

Fill pans two-thirds full with the cake mixture. 

Sponge cake requires a more moderate oven than cake made with 
butter. 

Cake is done when it shrinks from the sides of the pan, or when a 
clean broom straw put into the center comes out clean, or when pressed 
lightly with tip of finger the cake springs back into place. 

TESTS FOR TEMPERATURE OF OVEN 

If a piece of letter paper turns a deep yellow in 5 minutes, the oven 
is right for cake made with butter. 

The same test may be used for sponge cake, the paper turning a 
light yellow in 5 minutes. 

The time may be divided into four periods: 

1. Rise and not brown. 

2. Continue to rise and brown in spots. 

3. Light brown. 

4. Deeper brown and shrink from sides of pan. 

TO REMOVE CAKES FROM PANS 

After allowing the baked cake to remain in the pan about 3 min- 
utes, invert pans, on a board covered with a piece of old linen. 

If cake sticks to the pan, place a damp cloth on the bottom of pan 
for a few minutes. 

NOTE — If bread flour is used in place of pastry flour, take 2 tbsp. 
less for each cup. 

Cover baking powder can, sugar jar, flour bin, etc., as soon as you 
have measured the necessary quantities. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 11 

CAKE AND COOKIE RECIPES 
ANGEL FOOD WITH ALMOND CREAM FILLING 

Sift one and one-third cupfuls sugar with one teaspoonful cream of tartar five 
times. Sift one cupful flour with one teaspoonful cornstarch five times. 

Beat whites of twelve eggs until stiff enough to turn bowl upside down. 
Then fold in sugar, then flour. Bake in three layer pans, slightly greased and 
floured. 

FILLING 

Yolk of 6 eggs. % c. sugar. 

\}/2 c. milk. 3 tbsp. cornstarch 

Cook in double boiler until thick, take from fire and add one tablespoonful 
soaked granulated gelatine. Stir well and put into a refrigerator to chill. 

Run one cupful blanched almonds through grinder. Beat one cupful thick 
cream until very stiff. When custard begins to set, stir in the whipped cream 
and almonds. Return to refrigerator until it is thick enough to spread between 
and on top of cake. Then return to refrigerator until ready to serve. 

Miss Allie Brown, 115 S. Harrington, Raleigh, N. C. 

ANGEL CAKE WITH NUT FILLING 

1 c. granulated sugar sifted seven times J^ tsp. salt. 
1 c. flour sifted seven times. 1 tsp. cream of tartar. 

1 c. egg whites. 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Combine ingredients as in above recipe. 

NUT FILLING 

1 c. white sugar. }/2 pt. cream. 

1 c. nuts ground. 2 eggs (yolks and whites). 
3^ c. flour 

Cook until thick in a double boiler and flavor with vanilla. 

Mrs. Lydia Knecht, 913 S. 6th St., Springfield, III. 

BANANA CAKE 

% c. butter. 1 c. milk. 

2 c. sugar. 2% c. flour. 

2 eggs. 4 tsp. baking powder. 

2 tsp. vanilla. 

Mix butter, sugar and yolks of eggs. Add milk and flour sifted with bak- 
ing powder and fold In whites of eggs beaten stiff. Add flavoring. Bake in layer 
cake pans in moderate oven. When cool, put together as follows: 

Take one-third banana and crush with fork. Stir in enough confectioner's 
sugar to make a thick paste. 

Spread the top of each layerwith this and then slice bananas lengthwise, thinly, 
and press Into paste. Place the layers together. If bananas want to slide off, 
stick toothpicks into them till filling dries. Place cake in refrigerator till ready 
to serve. 

Mrs. Otto W. Huhn, 5817 Virginia Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 

BANANA FRITTERS 

4 bananas. l^ tsp. salt. 

1 c. bread flour. j| c. milk. 

2 tsp. baking powder. 1 egg. 

1 tbsp. powdered sugar. 1 tbsp. lemon juice. 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Beat egg until light, add milk and combine 
mixtures. Then add lemon juice and bananas , forced through a sieve. Drop by 
spoonfuls and fry in deep fat. Drain. Serve with lemon sauce. 

Mrs. I. E. Reed, 10th and Ohio Sts., Kansas City, Kan. 



12 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

BRAMBLES 

1 cup raisins. 3 crackers. 

2 lemons. 1 c. sugar. 

2 eggs. 
Remove peel and seeds from lemons, seed raisins and chop together. Roll 
crackers. Stir eggs, sugar and crackers together. Add chopped raisins and 
lemons. Bake in crust. 

Catherine L. Hartnett, 8 Goodell St., East Lynn, Mass. 

BROWNIE CAKE 

1 c. grated chocolate. 1 c. milk. 

1 c. light brown sugar. Yolk of 1 egg. 

Mix, pour in a double boiler cook and stir continually until quite thick, then 
leave until perfectly cold, after which prepare the following: — 

Cream together one cupful sugar, two-thirds cupful soft butter. Add the 
yolks of two eggs, one-half cupful milk, then the chocolate (first part), three 
cupfuls of flour, three teaspoonfuls baking powder mixed with one-half of the 
flour, and lastly the whites of three eggs. Flavor with vanilla. This may be 
baked in three layers or baked in a loaf. Let stand over night. 

If baked in a loaf, divide into three equal parts by cutting with a thread laid 
evenly around the cake and drawn tightly. A silk thread is the best. Put 
together with the following cream. 

Cover two tablespoonfuls of gelatine with cold water until dissolved. Whip 
one pint of cream, add one-half cupful powdered sugar, then the gelatine. Whip 
well, add gently whites of three eggs, whipped very stiff. Flavor. Put on ice and 
stir until it begins to stiffen. 

Bow pin a collar of buttered paper around first layer so it comes one-half 
inch above layer, fill the space with cream, and continue each layer in the same 
way. Finish top with cream or frosting. Keep very cold until cake is entirely 
used. 

It is very good if a few nuts or fruit is used in the cream filling. If this is 
done, omit the eggs. 

Angel food, baked in three layers with this cream filling, is delicious. 

Mrs. C. W. Wake, St. Edward, Neb. 

BURNT SUGAR CAKES 

Beat one-half cupful butter to a cream. Add gradually one and one-half 
cupfuls sugar, the yolks of two eggs, one cupful water. Add two cupfuls flour 
mixed with four teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and beat continuously for five 
minutes. Add three or more teaspoonfuls burnt sugar and one teaspoonful 
vanilla. Add another half cupful of flour. Beat again thoroughly. Add the 
beaten whites of two eggs. Bake in two layers. 

TO BURN SUGAR 

Put three-fourths cupful sugar in pan over fire, very low. Stir until all is 
melted, then add one tablespoonful of boiling water. If not smooth, let cook 
slowly and stir all the while. 

FILLING 

Place over the fire one and one-half cupfuls sugar and one-half cupful water- 
Cook until it will spin a hair from fork. Have ready the beaten whites of two 
eggs. Stir in gradually the boiling syrup. Beat until cool, then add one tea- 
spoonful vanilla and two or more tablespoonfuls of burnt sugar, just enough 
to color a light brown. 

Mrs. H. N. Townsend, 307 B. Olive St., Kansas City, Mo. 

CHEAP FRUIT CAKE 

Two eggs beaten separately, one cup sugar, half cup molasses, half cup 
butter, half cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda, two and a half cups flour, one 
cup each of raisins and currants, with spices to suit taste. 

Mrs. M. F. Farris, 2122 W. Prospect Place, Kansas City, Mo. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 13 



CHOCOLATE CAKE 

3 eees. -^ ^'i- Baker's chocolate. 

1/ cf butter. 1 ^- ^^^"^ bread crumbs. 

14 c sugar ' ^ tbsp. flour. 

Beat eggs' until light. Cream the butter. Add sugar, combine mixtures. 
Then add chocolate, melted, bread crumbs and flour. Spread mixture in a 
shallow, buttered pan and bake in a slow oven. Shape with a tiny biscuit cutter 
and put together in pairs with white icing, between and on top. 

Mrs. J. E. Reed, N. E. Cor. Tenth and Ohio, Kansas City, Kan. 

CHOCOLATE RAISIN CAKE 

1 c. butter 2 sq. chocolate, grated. 
IJ^'c. sugar. ^A tsp. cinnamon. 

a/ ^ jjjiii- 2 c. seeded raisins. 

5 egg yolks. 3 H c. flour. 

34 tsp. salt. 2 tbsp. baking powder. 

2 tbsp. brandy. , 5 egg whites. , , , • 
Cream butter, add sugar, grated chocolate and spices, then the baking 

powder and salt, sifted with the flour, and milk. Beat well. Add flavoring, then 
well beaten egg whites. Bake in deep buttered pans for forty minutes. 

Mrs. M. J. Olson, 1014 Fountain St., Albert Lea, Minn. 

CINNAMON CAKE 

}A c. lard and butter, mixed. 2 eggs. 

1 c. sugar. 2 tbsp. baking powder. 

1 c'. milk (water may be used). 2}4 c. flour. 

1 tsp. cinnamon. 
Mix in the usual way. 

FILLING 

1^ c. milk (water may be used). 1 tbsp. butter. 

1 c. sugar. 2 tbsp. cinnamon. 

Boil until'a soft ball may be formed in cold water. Beat until thick enough 

Mrs. Albert M. Ashburn, 3628 Wayne Ave., Kansas, City, Mo. 

CLUNCH CAKE 

Mash one pound of seeded raisins, add two cupfuls boiling water. Boil 
fifteen minutes and remove from stove. Add one cupful cold water, one table- 
spoonful baking soda, one-half cupful lard, two cupfuls sugar, one teaspoonful 
salt, one teaspoonful cloves, one teaspoonful cinnamon, one teaspoonful nutmeg 
and' four cupfuls flour. Mix all ingredients and bake in slow oven. 

Mrs. F. E. Leiser, Shillington, Pa. 

CREAM MUFFINS 

1 pt. flour. Yolk of 2 eggs beaten lightly. 

1/^ tsp. salt. 11^ c. cream. 

4 tsp. baking powder sifted four times. 
Lightly beaten whites of 2 eggs. 
Combine five ingredients, beat thoroughly. Fold in the lightly beaten egg- 
whites. Bake in muffin pans and serve hot. 

Miss Emma Johnson, R. R. 3, Box 35, Fremont, Neb. 

COOKIES 

One egg, beat thoroughly, add one cup of sugar, one cup of butter and lard 
well rubbed together. Three-quarters cup of sweet milk, add four teaspoons of 
baking powder to two cups of flour which should make a very stiff dough. Add 
tablespoon of vanilla. Roll very thin and bake in hot oven. Should make one 
hundred cookies. 

Mrs. G. a. Chanslor, Liberty, Mo. 

CREAM PUFFS 

Pour one cupful hot water on one-half cupful butter. Let come to_ boiling 
point. When boiling, stir in gradually one cupful flour. Cool in refrigerator 
until stiff. Beat smooth. Beat in three whole eggs, one at a time, continue 
beating until smooth. Drop on buttered tins and bake from twenty-five to thirty 
minutes in fairly hot oven. When ready to serve fill with: 



14 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



CREAM FILLING 

13^ tbsp. melted butter. % c sugar. 

3 tbsp. flour. Yolks of 3 eggs. 
IJ^ c. scalded milk. Flavoring. 

Mix flour, sugar and egg yolks; add the scalded milk and cook in a double 
boiler until thick and smooth, add butter and flavoring. Chill in refrigerator. 
Cut open cream puff shells and fill with the filling. 

Chill thoroughly before using. 

Mrs. R. B. Scatterday, 904 Chicago St., Caldwell, Idaho. 

CREAM PUFFS FILLED WITH MARSHMALLOW CREAM 

1 c. water. Yi c- butter. 

1 c. flour. 3 eggs. 

Put butter and water on stove, when boiling stir in flour. After it is smooth, 
take from stove and set aside to cool. Then add the eggs one at a time, mixing 
each in well before adding another. Drop by spoonfuls, two Inches apart on a 
buttered tin and bake thirty minutes in a moderate oven. This will make four- 
teen puffs. When cold, cut an opening in the side and fill with the following 
cream and place in a refrigerator until ready to serve, to prevent them from 
becoming soggy on the bottom. 

CREAM 

Cut into small pieces one-half pound of marshmallows. Mix with one cup- 
ful of chopped walnuts. Whip one cupful of heavy sweet cream very stiff and 
mix with marshmallows and nuts. Add sugar and flavoring to suit taste. Fill 
puffs and sift pulverized sugar on top of each. 

Mrs. H. B. Hurd, Madison, Minn. 

CREOLE KISSES 

Whites of 6 eggs. Yi tsp. cream of tartar. 

1 lb. white sugar. 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Beat together until very stiff, so it will not run, then add two cupfuls of 
chopped pecans. Stir in gently, and bake in a slow oven, until light brown. 
These must be dropped on ungreased paper when baking. Nice to serve with ice 
cream. 

Mrs. C. R. Foutz, 1416 Harlem Ave., Baltimore, Md. 

CUP CAKE 

2 c. sugar. 3 c. flour. 

1 c. butter. 2 tsp. baking powder. 

4 large or 5 small eggs. 1 c. milk. 
Sift flour and sugar three times separate. 

Mrs. E. Kling, 4103 Troost Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 

DATE COOKIES 

1 lb. dates "| 

1 c. sugar > Cook to a paste. 
Y2 c. water ' 
1 tsp. soda dissolved in water. 
2J^ c. oatmeal. 
23^ c. white flour. 
Y. c. water. 
1 c. butter. 
1 c. brown sugar. 
Cream butter, add sugar gradually, continue creaming. Add the soda and 
water, then the flour. Roll out thin, spread with paste, cover with another layer 
and cut in long strips. Bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. J. H. Parker, R. R. No. 5, Rosedale, Kan. 

DATE MUFFINS 

J^ c. butter. 1 pt. flour. 

1 egg, well beaten. 4 tsp. baking powder. 

1 c. milk. Y2 lb. dates chopped fine. 

Cream butter, add eggs and beat in the dates. Add just a little milk at 
a time and then flour (with baking powder) until it is all in, and bake twenty 
minutes in buttered muffin pans. 

Mrs. H. H. Thurston, 518 Montgall Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES IS 

DELICIOUS DOUGHNUTS 

1 egg. 3 tbsp. baking powder. 

1 c. sugar. Few grains of salt. 

5 tbsp. melted lard. Few grains of cinnamon. 

\]/2 c. sweet milk. Few grains of nutmeg. 

1 tsp. vanilla. 
Flour enough to roll stiff. Place in refrigerator thirty minutes. Roll out, 
cut in doughnut shape and fry in dip fat. 

Hanna J. Kennedy, 415 N. Fourth St., Springfield, III. 

DOUGHNUTS (SOUR CREAM) 

1 c. sour cream. 1 level tsp. soda. 

1 c. sugar. Little salt. 

3 eggs, well beaten. l^ grated nutmeg. 

Flour to roll to proper consistency. 

Roll flat and cut into shape with tin circular form. Fry in deep fat, drain 
and roll in confectioner's sugar. 

Miss Emma Johnson, R. R. 3, Box 35, Fremont, Neb. 

DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE 

J^ c. butter. 3^ c. hot water. 

2 c. brown sugar. 2 c. flour. 

2 eggs. 1 tsp. soda. 

3^ c. sour milk. 3 tbsp. cocoa. 

Cream butter and sugar, add eggs beaten very light, add cocoa dissolved 
in the hot water. Sift flour and soda together several times and add to the 
first mixture alternately with the sour milk. Bake forty-five to fifty minutes in 
regular cake pan, following general rules for cake baking. Cover with following 
chocolate frosting. 

2 c. pulverized sugar. J^ cake bitter chocolate. 

3 tbsp. butter. Coffee. 

Cream sugar and butter, melt chocolate and pour into first mixture, add 
boiling coffee by tablespoonful (about three) until thin enough to spread. 
Miss Caroline N. McNeil, R. F. D. No. 5, Logansport, Ind. 

DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE I 

Dissolve one ounce of chocolate and one cupful brown sugar. Beat in one 
egg and then one cupful milk, cook all together and let cool. 

Then beat together one egg, one cupful brown sugar, one-half cupful white 
sugar, one cupful butter. Then add one cupful sour milk, one teaspoonful soda, 
one teaspoonful vanilla and flour to thicken. Before adding flour, beat in the 
part already cooked and cooled. 

FILLING 

2 c. brown sugar. 1 c. sweet milk. 

1 tsp. butter. 
Let boil ten minutes. 

Mrs. C. a. Godbey, R. F. D. No. 2, Wathena, Kan. 

DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE II 
CUSTARD PART 

1 c. grated chocolate. 1 egg yolk. 

3^ c. sweet milk. 1 tsp. vanilla. 

1 c. brown sugar. 
Stir all together in a granite or porcelain saucepan, cook slowly, and set 
away to cool. 

CAKE PART 

1 c. brown sugar. 2 c. flour. 

H c. butter. i/^ c. sweet milk. 

^ , , 2 eggs. 

Cream the butter, sugar and yolks of eggs; add milk, sifted flour and whites 
of eggs beaten stiff; beat all together and then stir in the custard. Lastly add a 
teaspoonful soda dissolved in a little warm water. 

This makes a large loaf that keeps indefinitely or may be baked in jelly tins 
and iced with white icing. The white icing also makes a nice contrast if baked 
loaf style. 

Mrs. Wm. M. Fitzpatrick, 2330 Mersington Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 



16 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

DEVIL'S CAKE 
WHITE PART 

^ c. butter. 1 c. sweet milk. 

1 c. brown sugar. 2 eggs. 

2 c. flour. 1 tsp. soda sifted with flour. 
Mix like any white cake and add dark part before putting in oven. 

DARK PART 

1 oz. of chocolate. J^ c. sweet milk. 

J^ c. brown sugar. 1 yolk of egg, beaten. 

1 tsp. vanilla. 
Put chocolate into pan on the stove to get soft. Add sugar, milk and yolk 
of the egg beaten and the flavoring. Keep stirring and let boil for five minutes. 
Then add to the white part of the cake. Bake in layer tins. 

\ Mrs. C. T. Mason, 11 Fourth St. N. E., Roanoke, Va. 

DROP CAKES 

2 c. granulated sugar. 1 lb. seeded raisins, chopped. 
\]/2 c. sour milk. 2 c. nuts, chopped. 

3 eggs. 2 tsp. cinnamon. 

]/2 c. butter. ]4, tsp. ground cloves. 

]/2 c- lard. 1 level tsp. soda. 

2 tsp. baking powder. 
Flour to make stiff dough. 
Drop teaspoonfuls of dough on greased pan and bake. 

Mrs. E. E. Hamlin, 728 E. Edward St., Springfield, III. 

ENGLISH RECIPES FOR MANBURY CAKES 

Mix well together one pound currants, one pound beef suet, finely minced. 
Three ounces each candied lemon, orange peel, shred fine, a little salt, one ounce 
cinnamon and nutmeg mixed, four ounces ratafias rolled to powder. Make a 
rich puff paste of one pound flour and one pound butter. Roll out one-half 
into very thin squares and spread the mixed fruit and spices equally over it, 
lay over it the other half of paste rolled equally thin, moisten the edges and press 
them securely together. Mark the whole into regular divisions of two inches in 
width and three inches in length. Bake in a good oven for half an hour, divide 
into cakes when warm and dust powdered sugar over them. 

Mrs. C. a. Slater, 1215 Indiana Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 

FIRELESS FRUIT CAKE 

2 lbs. raisins. 1 lb. figs. 

2 lbs. dates. 3 lbs. peanuts. 

1 tsp. vanilla. 
Shell peanuts, put nuts and fruit through food chopper. Add vanilla and 
mix all together as you would bread. Form in loaves and put away in cool place. 
Will keep well. 

Mrs. H. F. Edomm, 1085 Reaney St., St. Paul, Minn. 

FROZEN CREAM CAKE 

Take six squares of sponge cake, which has been thoroughly cooled in a 
refrigerator, and baked one and one-quarter-inch thick. Line a square baking 
pan with five pieces of this. Spread a coating of meringue — which has been 
chilled — over this cake, being sure every opening between the pan and cake is 
filled. Then fill with cream — any desired flavor — frozen hard. Put the last 
layer of cake over the top and cover thickly with meringue. Place in quick 
oven and brown lightly. Remove from oven and place in refrigerator until 
meal time. 

If this cake is kept in the apartment of the refrigerator next to ice, it will 
keep from one meal to the next. 

Clyde Fields, Amelia, N. C. 

FOOD FOR THE GODS 

6 eggs, beat whites and yolks separately. 2 tsp. baking powder. 
2 c. sugar. 1 c. chopped English walnuts. 

12 tbsp. cracker crumbs. 1 c. chopped dates. 

Add stiffly beaten whites last. Bake in a loaf about forty minutes in a 
slow oven. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. a. W. Munger, 334 Spruce Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 



^ 



''Dry as a Bohn'' 

Bohn Syphon Refrigerator^ Porcelain 

Enamel, All White, Inside 

and Outside 




No. 53 

DIMENSIONS IN INCHES 

Width Depth Height 

Outside 40 21^ 49 

Large Provision Chamber 1^3^ 16 36 

Small Provision Chamber 173^ 16 11 

Ice Chamber 153^ 16 22 

Ice Chamber Capacity, 125 Lbs. Shipping Weight, 635 Lbs. 
For fuller description see following page and other inserts. 



''Dry as a Bohn'' 

Vitreous Enamel {Porcelain) Lined 

Refrigerator^ All White^ 

Inside and Outside 



This is a refrigerator of an exceptionally beautiful design, and 
must appeal to those whose artistic taste demands something dif- 
ferent from the ordinary. It has met with an unusual demand. 

The general construction of the walls of this refrigerator is 
the same as that used in all the different styles of Bohn Syphon 
Refrigerators with the exception that the woodwork is covered with 
vitreous enamel or porcelain plate in place of the panel case ordi- 
narily furnished. 

The corners are equipped with heavy solid brass tubing and 
the edges of all doors and openings with fiat brass strips, all of 
which are both heavily copper-plated and nickle-plated in our own 
works. 

All hinges and fasteners are of nickle-plated brass. 
Shelves and lower partitions are of steel, heavily coated with 
vitreous enamel porcelain. 

We manufacture in this series two sizes smaller than those 
shown in illustration. 

For illustration see preceding page. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 17 



FRUIT CAKE (The Best You Ever Ate) 

13^ lbs. grated maple sugar. 23^ lbs. seeded raisins. 

IJ^ lbs. butter. 1 lb. pecan meats. 

15 eggs. ^ lb. almonds. 

IJ^ lbs. browned flour. 1 oz. cinnamon. 

1 c. sour cream. J^ oz. cloves. 

1 tsp. soda, dissolved in a little hot J^ oz. nutmeg. 

water. 3^ oz. mace. 

3 lbs. each of glazed cherries and 1 gill molasses. 

pineapple. 
Chill this cake dough several days in refrigerator, to improve the flavor. Bake 
in a very slow oven, when done and while still warm, pour over it one pint of 
good wine. Protect carefully from the air in refrigerator at least thirty days be- 
fore using. 

Mrs. L. R. Fink, Palestine, Texas. 

FRUIT CAKE 

One pound of brown sugar, one-half pound of good butter, one and one-half 
pounds of flour, ten eggs, one cupful of water or sweet milk, six teaspoonfuls of 
cream tartar, three teaspoonfuls of soda, four pounds of seeded raisins, two 
pounds of cleaned currants, one-half pound of shredded citron, one-half pound 
of chopped dates, one-half pound of chopped figs, one pound of blanched and 
split almonds, one tablespoon each of lemon and vanilla extract, two table- 
spoonfuls of ground cinnamon, one-half tablespoon of ground alspice, one-half 
tablespoon of ground cloves. 

To mix, separate the yolks and whites of the eggs and beat light, cream, 
sugar and butter and add the yolks, beating thoroughly. Then the whites of 
eggs and the milk or water. Mix soda, cream tartar and spices with half the 
flour and add. Use the other half of flour on the fruit and mix well to keep from 
settling to the bottom. Add the fruits, one kind at a time till all are used, then 
flavor and bake in a papered pan four hours. 

Mrs. a. C. Maxwell, 914 Garland Ave., Texarkana, Ark. 

FRUIT CAKE 
EGOLESS, MILKLESS AND BUTTERLESS 

1 pkg. raisins. 2 c. sugar. 

2 c. cold water. 2 tbsp. lard. 
Boil five minutes and let cool, when cold add: 

3 c. flour. 1 tsp. cloves. 
1 tsp. cinnamon. 1 tsp. soda. 

1 tsp. salt. 
Bake in two bread tins one hour in a moderate oven. 

FRUIT CAKE (INDIVIDUAL) 

1 lb. dates, seeded and cut in quarters. 1 tsp. vanilla. 

1 c. cocoanut, cut fine. 1 tsp. lemon extract (or less if 

2 c. flour. desired). 

1 c. shortening, butter and lard mixed. 1 tsp. soda dissolved in 

1 tsp. cinnamon. J/^ c. boiling water. 

Grating of nutmeg. IH c. sugar. 

1 tsp. salt. 3 well beaten eggs. 

Add soda and water the very last. Bake in small patty tins, one table- 
spoonful in each. This recipe makes about thirty small cakes, which will keep 
for months when properly covered in a stone jar: grow better with age. 

Mrs. Ivan Hinckley, Belvidere, III. 

GINGER COOKIES 

1 egg. J^ c. water, cold. 

1 c. sugar. 1 tsp. salt. 

1 c. shortening. 1 tsp. cinnamon. 

1 c. molasses. 2 tsp. ginger. 

2 tsp. soda dissolved in water. 
Mix ingredients. Add flour to make dough stiff enough to roll out. Cut 
and bake in a moderate oven. 

Miss Hilda Nygren, 222 Sixth St. S., Montevideo, Minn. 



18 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

GINGER CREAMS 

1 c. white sugar. Yolks of 2 eggs, using whites for 

1 c. New Orleans molasses. frosting. 

1 c. butter and lard mixed. 1 tsp. soda in molasses. 

1 c. very cold water. 1 tbsp. cinnamon. 

1 tsp. ginger. 

Flour enough to make dough as soft as can be rolled one-fourth inch in 
thickness. 

Bake in moderate oven until brown. 

Make frosting from the stiffly beaten whites of the two eggs and one cupful 
sugar, one-half cupful water boiled until it threads. Then pour over the eggs 
and beat until the right consistency to spread on cakes. 

Mrs. Ella Jeannette Grant, Rugby, N. D. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS 

1 egg. }4, c. sugar. 

1 c. milk. J^ c. butter. 

134 c. flour. J^ tsp. salt. 

2 tsp. baking powder. 
Beat eggs, sugar and salt. Add milk and fliour with baking powder and 
melted butter. Bake in muffin rings about twenty minutes. 

Robin Whyte, Twelfth and Brooklyn, Kansas City, Mo. 

ICE BOX CAKE 

]/2 lb. sweet butter. 3 beaten egg-whites. 

J^ lb. powdered sugar. J^2 tsp. vanilla. 

3 whole eggs. 2 tbsp. of rum. 

J^ lb. blanched and grated almonds. 12 lady fingers. 

3 egg yolks. }^ lb. macaroons. 

Beat butter and sugar to a cream for ten minutes. Add one at the time, 
three whole eggs, the almonds, then the beaten yolks and whites, vanilla and 
rum. Split the lady fingers and place upright around the spring form. Line 
the bottom with macaroons, cover with half the mixture, put another layer of 
macaroons and cover with the rest of the mixture. Place on ice in a 
refrigerator for two days, then cover with whipped cream and serve. 

Mrs. Raymond Straus, 2012A Park Ave., Richmond, Va. 

ICE CREAM CAKE 

1 scant cup butter. 3 c. flour (sifted). 

3 c. pulverized sugar (sifted). 2 tbsp. baking powder. 

1 c. milk. Whites of 8 eggs. 
Mix as for butter cakes. 

ICING 

2 c. granulated sugar. 1 c. water. 

Whites of 2 eggs. 
Cook until it forms a soft ball when a little is tried in cold water or until 
it spins a hair. Pour gradually into the beaten whites of eggs, continue beating 
until thick enough to spread. Cut up marshmallows, twenty or more, and add 
to frosting. 

Mrs. Wm. Bennington, 118 Wabash Ave,, Kansas City, Mo. 



JAM CAKE 

Cream three-fourths cupfuls butter and one cupful sugar, add yolks of three 
eggs. Add first one teaspoonful each of cinnamon and allspice, one-half nutmeg 
and three tablespoonfuls of sour cream or milk. Next add one cupful jam and 
one and one-half cupfuls flour in which one teaspoonful of soda has been 
thoroughly blended by sifting several times. Then add whites of eggs, beaten 
stiff. Any desired frosting may be used. 

Mrs. a. B. Schowengerdt, 3512 Woodland Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 19 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE 

One level cup (half pint) seeded raisins and figs, run through meat grinder, 
put in small bowl and add juice of one lemon and one-third cupful sherry wine 
in which one tablespoonful granulated gelatine has been dissolved. Mix thorough- 
ly and put in refrigerator until cake is made. 

13^ c. sugar (level) Whites 10 eggs. 

1 c. butter. J/^ c. sherry wine. 

3 c. flour with 1 J^ tbsp. baking powder. 1 tsp. vanilla or rose water. 

Cream butter and sugar, then add two unbroken egg-whites at time, beating 
each thoroughly until all 10 eggs have been used. Then add flour, a little at a 
time, then flavoring. Bake in three layers in square or round tins. When done, 
layers should be one inch thick. 

ICING 

3 c. sugar. J^ tsp. cream of tartar. 

1 c. water. 

Cook until it forms soft ball when dropped in cold water. Then add ten 
marshmallows. Pour over the white of one egg and beat until light and creamy, 
then add one cupful of blanched almonds and chopped pecans. Spread some 
icing on one layer and when it sets, spread half of raisin and fig mixture on top 
of this, then another cake layer, etc. 

Ice top and sides with the nut icing. Return to refrigerator until ready to 
serve. 

LAPP COOKIES 

1 qt. molasses. J^ lb. citron. 
5^ pt. buttermilk. 2 c. sugar. 
J^ c. soda. 3 eggs. 

IJ^ c. nuts. J^ c. allspice. 

2 lbs. raisins. J<^ c. cinnamon. 
\}/2 lbs. currants. IJ^ nutmeg. 

34 lb. figs. 1 tbsp. mace. 

1 tumbler of wine or brandy. 2 tbsp. ginger. 

% pt. lard. 1 tbsp. cloves. 

Flour enough to make a stiff dough, so that it can be rolled and cut as cookies. 
Bake in hot oven. 

Mrs. J. H. O'Donnell, R. 6, Box 179, Independence, Mo. 

LAYER CAKE 

1 c. sweet milk. 4 eggs, omitting the whites of 2 

2 c. white sugar. 3 c. flour. 

^ c. butter. 3 tsp. baking powder sifted into 

theflour. 
Beat the remaining whites of the two eggs to a froth and stir in last, flavor 
with vanilla. 

Bake in layers and frost with maple frosting made as follows: — 
Boil one and one-half cupfuls maple sugar with one-half cupful water until 
it spins a two-inch thread. Pour slowly on the whites of two eggs well beaten. 
Beat until thick enough to spread. Use the frosting for the layers. 

Grace E. Wood, 115 Park Ave., E. Rutherford, N. J. 

LOAF CAKE 

1 c. butter. 3^ c. water, cold. 

1 c. sugar. 4 eggs. 

2 c. flour. 3 tsp. baking powder. 

1 tsp. any kind of flavoring. 
Beat butter to a cream. Add sugar gradually, beating all the time. Then 
add water and one and one-half cupfuls of flour alternately. 

Beat yolks very light and add. Then add the well beaten whites and 
lastly one-half cupful of flour with the baking powder added and the flavoring. 

Bake in deep pans in a moderate oven thirty minutes. This quantity 
makes two loaves. Can be frosted if desired. 

Mrs. Roy Minton, 2833 Woodland Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 



20 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



MACAROONS 

Beat the whites of two eggs until stiff, add gradually one cupful sugar and 
beat until sugar is dissolved. Place the pan containing the whites and sugar 
over a kettle containing boiling water and steam until a heavy coating forms on 
the sides and bottom of pan. Stir slowly, but constantly while the mixture is 
steaming. Dissolve two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch in one teaspoonful 
of water and the beaten white of another egg. Add this to the steamed whites, 
together with two cupfuls of shredded cocoanut or one cupful of shredded nuts. 
Mix, drop in small spoonfuls on a greased pan and bake in a moderate oven. 
The macaroons take the name of the nuts used. 

Mrs. C. E. Long, 520 Walnut Ave. N. E., Canton, Ohio. 

MOLASSES CAKE WITHOUT EGGS 

1 c. New Orleans molasses 1 tsp. ginger. 

1 c. coffee. 1 tsp. cinnamon. 

14 c. lard melted. 3 c. flour. 

1 tsp. soda. ^2 c. raisins, chopped. 

Mrs. G. T. Buckley, 18 Martha St., Binghamton, N. Y. 



OATMEAL COOKIES 



IJ^ c. sugar. 
1 c. butter. 
4 eggs. 
3 tbsp. sour milk. 

1 tsp. soda dissolved in milk. 

2 tsp. cinnamon. 

Drop in buttered tins one teaspoonful at a time at intervals and bake. 
Mrs. T. B. Carswell, 1404 W. Edward St., Springfield, III. 



2 c. flour. 

2 c. chopped raisins. 

1 lb. English walnuts. 

2 c. rolled oats added last. 



ONE-EGG CAKE 

1 c. sugar. 1 c. flour. 

2 tsp. baking powder. 
Sift thoroughly. Melt two tablespoonfuls butter, put in measuring cup, 
add unbeaten egg, fill up the cup with milk. 

Stir into the flour and sugar. Beat for a few seconds. Add flavoring and 
bake. 

Mrs. F. M. DeHaven, 4047 Michigan Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 

ORANGE SPONGE CAKE 

5 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 

Into the whites stir 2 c. granulated sugar. 

Into the yolks stir the juice and grated rind one orange, a little salt and 
one-half cupful cold water. Then put the yolks and whites mixture together 
and beat in lightly two cupfuls pastry flour, into which has been put two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. Bake slowly. 

Mrs. James F. Nugent, 491 N. Main St., Woonsocket, R. I. 



ORANGE SUNSHINE CAKE 

13^ c. sugar. 3 egg yolks. 

1 c. flour. 1 tsp. cream of tartar. 

11 egg whites. Pinch of salt. 

Grated rind of an orange. 
Separate eggs, put whites into one bowl and yolks into another bowl. Put 
in a refrigerator to get very cold. Sift sugar seven times and flour five 
times. Beat yellows of eggs with half the sugar until very light, add 
grated rind of orange. Beat whites after adding salt and cream of tartar until 
they can stand alone, and other half of sugar, beat in. Add the beaten yolks 
and the flour; mix all together quickly and lightly. Bake in an angel cake pan, 
in a slow oven for about fifty minutes. Let hang in pan until cold. 

The same recipe may be used for Angel Cake by leaving out the three yolks 
and the grated orange peel and adding one teaspoonful vanilla after the flour 
has been added. Add all the sugar to the whites after they are beaten and beat in. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 21 

ICING FOR ORANGE SUNSHINE CAKE 

1 egg yolk. Juice 1 orange. 

1 lb. Confectioner's sugar. 1 tbsp. butter. 

Beat egg yolk, add some sugar, add butter, then sugar, orange juice and 
sugar alternately until orange is used and there is sugar enough to make icing 
spread nicely. M. Elizabeth Gitt, 221 High St., Hanover, Pa. 

PEACH BLOSSOM CAKE 

1 c. pulverized sugar. 1 c. flour. 

Y2 c. butter. 2 tsp. baking powder. 

Yi c. sweet milk. 1 tsp. cornstarch. 

Whites of 3 eggs stiffly beaten. 
Stir sugar and butter until like thick cream. Add milk, flour mixed and 
ifted with baking powder and cornstarch, stir. Fold in the stiffly beaten egg 
whites. Flavor strongly with extract of peach. 

Bake in square sponge tins, in moderately quick oven, and when done, 
sandwich with finely grated cocoanut and pink sugar. Frost with clear icing and 
sprinkle with pulverized sugar. 

Miss V. Harris, 2720 Campbell St., Kansas City, Mo. 

PEACH SHORTCAKE 

2 c. flour. 4 tsp. baking powder. 

Y tsp. salt. 
Mix salt, flour and baking powder together and rub one-half cup of butter 
and moisten with two-thirds cup of sweet milk to which one well beaten egg has 
been added, spread over two buttered pie tins, brush with butter and sprinkle 
with a little sugar. Bake in a quick oven when done cover one with sweetened 
slices of peaches and put the other on top, put more peaches and serve with cream. 
Mrs. Joseph Trant, 515 E. School St., Woonsocket, R. I. 

PECAN MACAROONS 

Beat the white of an egg dry; gradually beat in one-third of a cupful gran- 
ulated sugar mixed with one tablespoonful flour, and fold in two-thirds cup- 
ful of pecan nut meats, chopped very fine. Drop by teaspoonfuls on a tin lined 
with a buttered paper making smooth rounds. Sift granulated sugar over the 
top and bake in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. C. B. Neister, 1222^^ Gilmer Ave. N. W., Roanoke, Va. 

PERFECTION CAKE (Without Flour) 

4 eggs. 1 c. raisins. 

% c. sugar. Y2 c. cracker crumbs. 

1 c. English walnuts chopped fine. 1 tsp. baking powder. 

Flavor with vanilla. 
Beat yolks of eggs well, add sugar and beat till light. Add the well beaten 
whites, then the fine cracker crumbs and baking powder. Sprinkle the crumbs 
(about two tablespoonfuls) over the chopped nuts and raisins. Stir in flavoring, 
and bake in moderate oven. 

PINEAPPLE CAKE FILLING 

Place on ice the following filling. Into one cupful of pineapple juice mix 
one tablespoonful cornstarch. Put on stove one cupful grated pineapple 
and three-fourths cupful sugar. Boil and add cornstarch and juice, one table- 
spoon of butter and few drops of lemon juice. Cook until thick. Serve between 
ayers. 

Mrs. Charles Hawk, R. R. 1, Atchison, Kan. 

ICING 

IH c. sugar. Yi c. sweet milk. 

1 tbsp. butter. 
Boil five minutes or until a soft ball may be formed in cold water. Add 
one-half teaspoonful vanilla and beat to a cream. 

Mrs. L. C. Clifton, 331 E. Adams St., Jacksonville, Fla. 

PEANUT MACAROONS 

1 c. chopped peanuts. 2 egg-whites beaten stiff. 

1 c. powdered sugar. 
Stir and drop on buttered paper and bake in a moderate oven until a light 
brown. 



22 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

POTATO CAKE, CREAM ICING 

1 c. butter or % c. cottolene. 1 c. chopped nuts. 

2 c. sugar. 2 tsp. baking powder. 

2 c. flour. 1 tsp. cloves. 

1 c. mashed potatoes (salted). 1 tsp. nutmeg. 

}/2 c. sweet milk. 1 tsp. cinnamon. 

4 eggs, beaten separately. 1 tsp. vanilla flavoring. 

3 tbsp. ground chocolate or cocoa. 1 tsp. lemon flavoring. 

Cream butter and sugar well together, add yolks of eggs and mix thoroughly. 
Sift spices, baking powder and flour together three times. Add potatoes and nuts 
to butter, sugar and eggs. Then stir in alternately flour, etc., and milk. Then 
add flavoring and lastly whites of eggs beaten stiff. Bake thirty minutes in 
moderate oven. 

PRUNE CAKE 

1 c. sugar. 1 tsp. soda. 

}/2 c- butter. 1 tsp. cinnamon 

\yi c. flour. ]/2 tsp. cloves. 

4 tbsp. sour milk. K tsp. nutmeg. 

Either 2 or 3 eggs. 
Reserve white of one egg for frosting. Last add one cup cooked prunes, 
finely cut. Cook like fruit cake, very slow. This cake will keep moist for weeks. 
Mrs. Wells B. Williams, 2905 Troost Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 

PRIZE GINGERBREAD 

1 c. sugar. 1 tsp. cinnamon. 

1 c. butter and lard, mixed. 1 tsp. baking powder sifted into 

3 well beaten eggs. 3 c. flour. 

1 tsp. cloves. 1 c. hot water with 

}/2 tsp. soda dissolved therein. 
Bake in a hot oven. This mixture may seem too thin, but do not add more 
flour. 

Mrs. B. Wayne, 611 N. Thirty-third St., Kansas City, Mo. 

RAISIN CAKE 

1 c. molasses. 2 c. flour. 

3 tbsp. melted sugar. 1 tsp. cinnamon. 

3 tbsp. melted butter. 2 yolks of eggs. 

1 c. raisins. 1 c. boiling hot water with tsp. of 

soda in it. 
Beat eggs thoroughly, mix butter and sugar and melt over fire together, 
add molasses, cinnamon, butter and sugar to eggs, then add cup water with 
soda dissolved, then two cups flour. Add raisins last. Bake in moderate oven 
in layers. 

FILLING FOR RAISIN CAKE 

IK c. sugar. 2 whites of eggs. 

Put sugar in pan with one-half cup water, boil until it threads, then pour 
over stiffly beaten egg whites, beating constantly until cool enough to spread be- 
tween layers. Sprinkle with cinnamon. 

Mrs. p. B. Flynn, 421 Delaw^are St., Bartlesville, Oklahoma. 

ROXBURY FRUIT CAKE 

1 c. sugar. 2 tsp. cloves. 

1 c! molasses. 2 tsp. nutmeg. 

1 c. sour milk. 2 tsp. soda. 

J^ c. butter, softened. 1 lb. seeded raisins. 

4 eggs. 1 -b- small raisins. 
3 c. sifted flour. 1 lb. figs. 

2 tsp. cinnamon. K lb. citron. 

}4, lb. walnut meats. 
Cut fruit in small pieces, dust with flour, and mix ingredients well. Bake from 
two to three hours in a moderate oven. This recipe will make two good sized 
loaves and will keep for three or four months in stone jar. 

Mrs. Coit A. Chappell, 87 Howard St., New London, Conn. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 23 

SNOW CAKE 

Beat three-fourth cupfuls butter to a cream gradually add one and one- 
half cupfuls of sugar. Sift together several times two cupfuls flour and one 
cupful cornstarch, three level teaspoonfuls baking powder, alternately with 
one cupful milk, lastly add whites of seven eggs beaten light, one teaspoonful 
each of vanilla and lemon extract. Bake in layers in large pans, about forty 
minutes. Cover with strawberry frosting. Make a good frosting and add one 
cupful of strawberries which has been passed through a sieve and let stand with 
about one-half cupful sugar and one tablespoonful lemon juice. Spread on cake. 
Hanna J. Kennedy, 410 N. Fourth St., Springfield, III. 

SPICE CAKE 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup raisins simmered in enough 
water to have one cup of juice left, one teaspoon of soda, two cups flour, one-half 
teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon nutmeg, one teaspoon cinnamon. Cream the 
butter, add the sugar gradually, then the stewed raisins and the dry ingredients, 
mixed and sifted. Bake in layers. 
Mrs. M. B. Magenery, 2122 A. W. Prospect Place, Kansas City, Mo. 

SPONGE CAKE 

6 eggs. 3 tbsp. water. 

1 pt. sugar. Flavoring. 

1 pt. flour. 
Take egg yolks, sugar and water, beat to a cream. Set aside and beat. 
Add flour to batter and last fold in beaten whites and flavoring. Bake in a 
moderate oven. 

Mrs. John H. Carnes, R. D. No. 5, Canton, Ohio. 

STRAWBERRY CAKE 
Served Cold 

% c. butter. IJ^ c. milk. 

IJ^ c. sugar. 33^ c. flour. 

2 eggs. 2 tsp. baking powder. 

1 tsp. vanilla. 
Cream butter, add sugar and cream, add eggs and beat, then add milk, do 
not stir, add flour and beat five minutes, then add baking powder and vanilla. 
Bake in loaf cake pans forty minutes, slowly. When cold cut thin slice oflf of 
top of cake, having turned cake upside down when lifting to make smaller part 
on top, cut inside out of cake, leave one-half inch of cake around edges and on 
bottom. Set in ice box and chill. 

FILLING 

Y2 pt- of cream, whipped, measure 4 whites of eggs beaten very stiff, 

before whipping. 2 c. of strawberries, measure after 

Sweeten cream and eggs. cleaning and slicing very thin 

and sweeten with berry sugar. 
Mix one-third of cream and eggs with berries, pour into cake mould, pour 
one-half of remaining cream on top of berries and cream. Lay top of cake back 
on, pour rest of cream and eggs on top of cake, spread over as frosting and lay 
strawberries cut in half on top and around the cake, standing point up against 
cake. Chill for fifteen minutes and serve on chilled plates. 

Mrs. M. M. Hall, 3635 Virginia, Kansas City, Mo. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE 

2 c. flour. \ 2 tsp. sugar. 

4 tsp. baking powder. ^ c. milk. 

K tsp. salt. _ j| c. butter. 

Mix dry ingredients, sift twice, work in butter with tips of fingers and add 
milk gradually. Toss on floured board, divide in two parts. Pat, roll out and 
bake 12 minutes in a hot oven, in buttered, round, layer cake tins. Split and 
spread with butter. Sweeten strawberries to taste, place on back of range 
until warmed. Crush slightly and put between and on top of short cake. Cover 
with cream sauce. 

Mrs. J. H. Parker, R. R. No. 5, Rosedale, Kan. 



24 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

CREAM SAUCE 

1 egg. Yi c. thick cream. 

1 c. powdered sugar. 34 c. milk. 

}/2 tsp. vanilla. 
Beat white of egg until stiff; add yolk of egg well beaten and sugar gradu- 
ally. Dilute cream with milk, beat until stiff. Combine mixtures and flavor. 
Mrs. J. H. Parker, R. R. No. 5, Rosedale, Kan. 

SUNSHINE CAKE 

Whites 7 eggs. Pinch of salt added to egg- 

Yolks 5 eggs. whites before whipping. 

1/4 c. granulated sugar. Flavor to taste. 

1 c. flour. 

Sift, measure and set aside flour and sugar; separate the eggs, putting the 
whites in a mixing bowl and the yolks in a small bowl. Beat yolks until thick 
and creamy, whip whites to foam, add cream of tartar and whip until very 
stiff. Add sugar to the whites and beat in. Fold in the yolks, flavor and fold 
in the flour lightly. Put in moderate oven at once. Will bake in twenty to 
forty minutes. 

Mrs. M. H. Ford, Perryman, Harford Co., Md. 

SURPRISE CAKE 

CAKE PART 

^2 c. cocoa. Y2 c. milk. 1 egg. 

Heat milk. Add cocoa. Beat egg and stir in. Cook till thick. Let cool. 

1 c. sugar. Yi c. milk. 

4 tbsp. melted butter. 1 tsp. soda. 

1% or 2 c. flour. 
Mix ingredient. Add cooled cocoa mixture to this. Beat well. Bake in 
individual cake tins. This will make twelve cakes. 

CUSTARD FILLING 

1 c. milk. 1 egg-yolk. 

1 sq. chocolate. 1 tbsp. cornstarch. 

Yi c. sugar. 

Mix sugar and chocolate, add to hot milk. Mix cornstarch with little 
cold milk and add to hot milk. Stir in well. Then add beaten egg yolk and 
cook until thick. 

FROSTING 

1 c. pulverized sugar. 1 sq. or sq. plus Y melted 

1 egg white. chocolate. 

2 tbsp. milk. 
Beat white well and mix with sugar. Then add chocolate and milk. 

TO PUT TOGETHER 

Cut a small hole in the top of each cake. Carefully remove some of the 
inside of the cake and fill with the chocolate custard. Fit top back on the cake 
and cover the cake with frosting. 

Mrs. Roger Legge, 110 Murray St., Binghamton, N. Y. 

1 

TEXAS PECAN CAKE | 

1 c. butter. 6 eggs. 

2 c. sugar. 2 tsp. vanilla. 

3J^ c. flour. \Y lbs. raisins, floured. 

1 c. whiskey or brandy or Y c each. 1 qt. shelled pecans, not broken. 

2 tsp. baking powder. 
Bake three hours in a slow oven. This will make one large and one small 
cake. 

Mrs. C. R. Foutz, 1416 Harlem Ave., Baltimore, Md. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 25 

UNBAKED FRUIT CAKE 

Chop fine two pounds each of seeded raisins, currants, dates and English 
walnuts; then chop fine and add one-fourth pound candied lemon peel, one- 
fourth pound orange peel and one-third pound citron. One cup strained honey 
SIX tablespoonfuls pure olive oil, two cupfuls rolled oats, two cupfuls wheat 
(washed, dried and ground, not too fine, in coffee mill,) one teaspoonful each of 
cinnamon, cloves, allspice and nutmeg (if you like nutmeg) two cupfuls unfer- 
mented fruit juice (grape juice preferred). Put the juice on rolled oats and 
ground wheat. Let stand over night. Next morning, mix the other ingre- 
dients thoroughly together and put into any kind of pans lined with oiled paper 
Put on a heavy weight and let stand twenty-four hours, when it is ready to eat' 
This kind of fruit cake will keep forever, if it was not so good. Its keeping 
qualities are due to there being no eggs, sugar or butter, nothing to become 
rancid, the honey keeping it moist. This recipe makes eleven pounds. 

Mrs. a. Townsend, 127 N. White Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 

UP-TO-DATE POUND CAKE 

1 c. shortening. 5 eggs. 

2 c. flour. 1^ tsp. powdered mace. 

1^ c. sugar. 
Beat the shortening, add sugar and continue beating until it looks like 
thick cream, add the mace. Break the eggs in one at a time and beat it thorough- 
ly, before adding the next. Mix the flour in lightly. Turn the mixture at once 
into a papered cake tin and bake it slowly for one hour. The grain of this cake 
should be fine and close, not porous, yet it must be soft, light and velvety This 
texture is obtained by the thorough creaming of the shortening and sugar and 
not by over-beating the eggs. 

Mrs. G. F. Denser, 140 N. Quincy, Kansas City, Mo. 

WAFFLES 

2 c. flour. Yolks of 2 eggs. 

4 tsp. baking powder. i^ c. melted butter. 

1 tsp. salt. Whites of 2 eggs. 

^ c. milk. 
Combine flour, baking powder, salt, add milk, egg yolks and butter Add 
beaten egg whites lastly. Bake and serve immediately. 

Mrs. Ruby D. Garrett, 3631 Baltimore Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 

WAFFLES 

To one pint of sour milk add one-half teaspoonful of soda and the beaten 

yolks of three eggs. Sift together and add two and one-half cupfuls of flour 

one-half teaspoonful salt and two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Lastly fold in 

the well beaten whites of three eggs. Pour into hot and well greased wafHe irons 

Mrs. James M. Huston, 3418 Jefferson St., Kansas City, Mo. 

WHITE CAKE 

V2 c. butter. 5 egg whites. 

2 c. sugar. 2^ c. flour. 

1 c. water or milk. 4 tsp. baking powder. 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually. Beat whites stiff, but not dry Mix 
and sift baking powder in one-half cupful flour. Add liquid and two cupfuls 
flour alternately to butter and sugar. Beat thoroughly between each addition 
told in egg whites and add flour and baking powder. Blend thoroughly, pour 
in cake pan lined with buttered paper. Bake forty-five minutes in moderate 
oven. 

Mrs. J. H. Parker, R. R. No. 5, Rosedale, Kan. 

CAKES 
WHITE MOUNTAIN PUDDING 

_ Dissolve one-half box gelatine in one pint of cold water, when soft add one 
pint boiling water. The grated rind and juice of one large lemon, juice of one 
orange. Two cups of sugar. Let stand until cold, when it begins to stiffen 
beat in the whites of four well beaten eggs, pour into mould, set on ice to harden' 
berve with a thin custard, made with one quart of milk, yolks of four eggs and 
one whole egg, one-half cup sugar. Flavor with vanilla. 

Mrs. C. R. Carr. 



26 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



WHITE FRUIT CAKE 

2 c. of white sugar. 1 tbsp. of vanilla. 
1 c. of butter. 1 lb. of pecans. 

Whites of 12 eggs. % lb. of crystallized pineapple. 

3 c. of flour. ^ lb. of crystallized cherries. 
1 tbsp. of baking powder. Y2 lb. of citron. 

Stir five minutes in a cake mixer. Bake slowly in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. O. G. Boisseau, Holden, Mo. 

WHITE NUT CAKE 

5^ c. butter. 2J^ c. flour. 

XYi c. sugar. J^ tsp. cream of tartar. 

Y2 c. milk 3 tsp. baking powder. 

1 c. walnut meats, cut in pieces. Whites 8 eggs. 

Follow recipe for mixing butter cakes. This mixture makes two loaves. 
Mrs. J. E. Reed, N. E. Cor. Tenth and Ohio, Kansas City, Kan. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 27 



i 
I 

f 



dinners! 



A "BOHN" HOLIDAY DINNER 
AWARDED FIRST PRIZE 

Chilled Bouillon Salted Wafers 

Radishes Young Onions Celery 

Salmon En Aspic Sliced Cucumbers 

Roast Ham or Roast Chicken or 
Walnut Loaf 
Potato Salad _ _ Asparagus in Pepper Rings 

Vinaigrette Dressing 
Fruit Punch (In Grape Fruit Shells) 
Washington Pie or Macaroon Gelatine 
or "Bohn" Fruit Pudding Finger Rolls 

Iced Tea, Coffee, Milk 

This dinner may all be prepared either the day before or several hours in 
advance of serving time, thus allowing time for the guests enjoyment of the 
holiday, with the family. Every dish mentioned will be the better, if anything, 
if kept in a Bohn Syphon refrigerator. 

Wash and clean radishes, onions, celery. Place in glass fruit jars in refrigerator 
to keep crisp. Peel cucumbers and do likewise. Cook asparagus and put in covered 
dish, clean peppers ready to be sliced in rings. Have potatoes cooked and 
scooped into ball shapes. Make Vinaigrette salad dressing; place in glass 
jars also. Cup up fruit for punch and cover with sugar and sherry. Prepare 
grape fruit shells. Have tea, coffee and milk in bottles. 

Following are recipes for walnut loaf, macaroon gelatine and "Bohn" fruit 
pudding. Washington pie is sponge cake made light with four eggs, split and 
filled with thick custard sauce with whipped cream on top. Keep the custard 
in refrigerator until ready to serve. 

WALNUT LOAF 

Dissolve one-half teaspoonful beef extract in one pint of water, add one 
cupful chopped walnut meats, four cupfuls bread crumbs, one chopped, hard 
cooked egg, one teaspoonful salt, one-half teaspoonful powdered sage, dash of 
pepper, one medium size grated onion; mix well and stir in one beaten egg lastly. 
Form in a loaf, place in buttered pan and bake in moderate oven one hour. 
When cool, place in refrigerator as it will slice better if thoroughly set. Can also 
be served as croquettes, if dipped in egg crumbs, and fried in hot fat. 

MACAROON GELATINE 

Soak one package of lemon flavored gelatine in one-half cup cold water, 
dissolve in one and one-half cups of boiling water. Let cool, then place in refrig- 
erator until partly congealed, then whip until light, adding one cupful whipped 
cream and six crushed macaroons. Beat thoroughly, set in refrigerator to 
harden. Serve with whipped cream. 

"BOHN" FRUIT PUDDING 

Line a baking dish with slices of bread without crust. Fill the dish with 
hot stewed fruit, currants, strawberries, blackberries or whatever may be in 
season. Cover all with slices of bread and place a saucer on top with a weight 
on it so that the fruit and bread will be pressed together. Place in refrigerator 
until next day, then turn out, slice and serve with rich cream. 

Eleanor Martin, 644 Oakland Ave., Apt. 1, Milwaukee, Wis. 



28 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

A REFRIGERATOR DINNER 

AWARDED SECOND PRIZE 

A well balanced dinner can be prepared in the cool of the morning, placed 
in a Bohn Syphon refrigerator and served at seven in the evening with half an 
hour's work. 

MENU 

Grape Fruit Cocktail 

Jellied Salmon with Cucumber Sauce or Pressed Chicken 

Apple Jelly Iced Olives 

Lettuce Sandwiches 

Frozen Fruit Salad Cheese Straws 

Caramel Ice Cream Angel Food 

Iced Tea 



RECIPES 

GRAPE FRUIT COCKTAIL 

Remove the rind and skin from the grape fruit pulp. Cut in small pieces, 
cover with sugar, add a small bottle of maraschino cherries, including the liquor. 
Chill thoroughly in Bohn Syphon refrigerator. Serve in sherbet glasses. 



PRESSED CHICKEN 

Cut up the chicken. Cook in one and one-half quarts water to which 
one tablespoonful salt, one-eighth teaspoonful pepper and one small onion has 
been added until the meat leaves the bones. Let cool in the broth. Take out 
chicken and cut the meat into fine bits, using no fat or gristle. Remove fat 
from liquor (one pint of liquor to one chicken), reheat, stir in one-half box of 
gelatine, previously soaked in cold water. Stir well and place in a mold on ice in a 
refrigerator. Serve on a bed of lettuce garnished with large cubes of apple jelly. 



FROZEN FRUIT SALAD 

Slice 1 c. bananas 1 c. pineapple. 

1 c. oranges. 1 c. salad dressing. 

1 c. whipped cream. 

Mix first four ingredients and place in molds several hours in a refrigerator. 
Remove from mold, cut in individual slices, serve with whipped cream flavored 
with salad dressing. 

Salad dressing for same: Soak three tablespoonfuls gelatine in one- 
fourth cup of cold water, dissolve over hot water to make a liquid. Stir until 
smooth four tablespoonfuls dry mustard, one-fourth cupful butter, yolks four 
eggs, one teaspoonful flour and one-fourth teaspoonful salt and one-fourth cup 
sugar, add one-quarter cup lemon juice. Cook over boiling water until thick- 
ened. Add the soaked and dissolved gelatine and cool. Add the fruit, saving 
a few tablespoonfuls to flavor whipped cream. Pour into molds and chill in a 
refrigerator. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM 

Measure and mix one cupful white sugar, one-half cupful flour, two eggs 
beaten and one pint milk. Pour into double boiler and cook until it thickens, 
and while hot, stir in the caramel made as follows. Put one cupful light brown 
sugar in a saucepan, place on stove and scrape from sides and bottom until 
melted and golden. When mixture is cooled, add one quart of cream. Then 
freeze. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 29 



ANGEL FOOD CAKE 

Sift one and one-half cupfuls granulated sugar, one cupful flour, one-half 
teaspoonful creamof tartar seven times. Beat whites of ten or eleven eggs (depends 
on size). When half beaten, add one-half teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
Fold in sifted flour, sugar and cream of tartar and one teaspoonful vanilla grad- 
ually. Do not beat any more. Bake slowly forty-five minutes or until mixture 
shrinks from side of pan. Turn cake upside down, when done, and do not try 
to remove from pan until cold. Serve plain or with icing. 



JELLIED SALMON WITH CUCUMBER SAUCE 

Remove salmon from tin, rinse well with hot water and separate in flakes. 
Mix one-half teaspoonful salt, one-half tablespoonful sugar, one-half tablespoonful 
flour, one teaspoonful mustard, dash of cayenne, yolks of two eggs, one and one- 
half tablespoonfuls melted butter, three-fourths cupful milk, one-fourth cupful 
vinegar and cook in double boiler until thickened. Add one tablespoonful gela- 
tine soaked in one-fourth cup cold water and the salmon. Place in mold. Serve 
with the following sauce. Beat one-half cupful cream until stiff, add few grains 
of salt, pepper, two tablespoonfuls vinegar and a cucumber, peeled, chopped and 
drained. 

Mrs. Charles Hawk, R. R. No. 1, Atchison, Kan. 



30 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



THE selection, preparation and serving of food for invalids is of the greatest 
importance. 

The food should be suited to the digestive powers of the patient, should 
be perfectly cooked and served attractively in small quantities. In serious illness 
consult the physician in attendance, and follow his directions exactly. Death 
may result from giving forbidden articles of food. 

All food is changed into liquid during the process of digestion, before it can 
be absorbed into the blood. Liquid food carefully selected can therefore be 
digested with the smallest amount of exertion to the body. 

{ Liquid. 
Diets are classed as <; Semi-solid or soft diet. 
( Solid or full diet. 
Liquids. — Stimulants are boiled beef tea, broths, coffee, tea. 
Nutrients. — Milk, frozen cream, barley water, rice water, oatmeal water, 
toast water, albumenized milk, albumenized fruit waters, egg-nogs, chocolate, 
cocoa, bottled beef tea, etc. 

Refreshing Beverages are lemonade, orangeade, grape juice and water, 
currant, tamarind and apple water, etc. 

The fruit waters are cooling, refreshing and mildly stimulating, and are 
given to fever patients. 

Fruits are valuable for the salts and acids they contain. 

Semi-Solids. — Gruels — arrow-root, farina, oatmeal, cracker, Indian meal. 
Mushes — cooked cereals. Cream soups. Oyster stew. Cooked eggs. Custards. 
Soft toast. Gelatine desserts, etc. 

Solids. — Raw oysters — Chicken. Broiled chops. Baked potatoes. Hot 
sandwiches. Foods that are nutritious and easy of digestion are included in the 
full diet. 

Gruels and the various breakfast foods, thoroughly cooked, with or with- 
out fruit, are valuable. 

Corn and oatmeal gruels should not be given in inflammatory cases, as they 
are heat-producing. 

The starch in arrow-root is more easily digested than any other form of starch. 

Cooked eggs, dropped eggs on toast, scrambled, omelets, etc., soft custards, 
baked custards, and the fruit whips made with white of egg, and sweetened fruit, 
are all nutrients and easily digested. 

Frozen cream and cream whips with gelatine are very valuable dishes in the 
sick room, as they are both highly nutritious and palatable. 

The cream soups, oyster stew, etc., with toast or crackers, make a desirable 
lunch for a convalescent. 

Set the tray just as daintily as possible. 

Use the best china, etc., lay a blossom on the tray, or anything to please 
the eye. 

Serve hot dishes hot; cold dishes cold. 

Serve one course at a time. Have as many surprises as possible. 

In contagious diseases all dishes, plates, knives, forks, etc., should be steri- 
lized (by putting them in cold water, bringing them to boiling point and boiling 
two hours), after each time they have been used. Burn all particles of food left 
over. 

The following are recipes suitable for invalids, convalescents and even 
well persons for hot weather diet. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 31 

ALBUMENIZED MILK 

1 white of egg. 1 tsp. sugar. 

Y2 c. milk. 1 tsp. or less of vanilla. 

Few grains of salt. 
Beat the white of egg slightly, then add to the milk. Add salt, sugar and 
vanilla and mix well. Strain through a sieve to help break up the albumen, 
then place this in a glass and add one-fourth cupful of cracked ice, then put on 
ice in refrigerator until ready to be used. Serve to a patient, on a tray covered 
with a spotless, white napkin and some cheering colored flowers on the side. 



FRUIT EGG-NOG 

1 egg. Juice of 1 orange. 

Few grains of salt. 2 tsp. sugar (to taste). 

1 tsp. lemon juice. 
_ Beat the egg slightly, add the fruit juices (strained), salt and sugar. Place 
on ice in refrigerator until time to serve, then add cracked ice. 

KOUMISS 

1 qt. milk. y^ tsp. of salt. 

Yi yeast cake. 2 tsp. sugar. 

Scald milk over water. Cool to a lukewarm temperature and add yeast. 
Add salt, sugar, then pour into a sterilized, tightly corked bottle and let stand 
for two days in a dark, warm place. When ready to serve, place on ice in refrig- 
erator and when in the glass, add cracked ice. 

ORANGE ALBUMEN 

1 egg white. Few grains of salt. 

Juice of 1 orange. 1 tsp. sugar. 

Beat the egg white a trifle, add cracked ice, the orange juice, the salt, sugar 
and strain. Place on ice in refrigerator and serve with cracked ice. 



PLAIN EGG-NOG 

1 egg. Few grains of salt. 

Yi glass milk. _ 1 tsp. sugar. 

Yi tsp. vanilla or almond flavoring. 
Beat the egg a little, add to the milk, then the salt, sugar and flavoring. 
Add one-half cupful of cracked ice and place on ice in a refrigerator, until wanted, 
to insure a cold temperature when served. 

Elin M. Peterson, 318 Auburndale Ave., Auburndale, Mass. 



32 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



i„ I 

PREPARATION FOR FROZEN DISHES 
FREEZING 

ICE and SALT form a freezing mixture, several degrees below the freezing 
point of water. 

SALT melts the ice, withdrawing heat from the contents of the can, and 
the melting ice dissolves the salt. The smaller the pieces of ice, the more quickly 
the change to liquid and the more salt used, the more quickly the mixture is 
frozen. If too much salt is used, however, the frozen mixture will be coarsely 
grained. Three parts ice to one part salt is the best proportion for a smooth, 
fine-grained cream. 

DIRECTIONS FOR FREEZING 

Scald can, cover and dasher, then chill. 

Place the can of the freezer in the pail; put in the dasher, and pour in mixture 
to be frozen. Cover and adjust top. Turn crank to make sure can fits in socket. 

Fill the space between the can and pail with alternate layers of ice and salt, 
allowing three measures of ice to one of salt. 

The ice and salt should come a little higher in the pail than mixture to be 
frozen. 

The can should not be more than three-fourths full, as the mixture expands 
in freezing. 

Turn the crank slowly at first, then turn crank more rapidly, adding more 
salt and ice if needed. 

Do not draw off the water, unless it stands so high that there is danger of 
it getting into the can. 

After freezing, draw off the water, remove dasher, and with spoon push 
solidly. 

Put cork in opening of cover. 

Repack, using four parts of ice to one of salt. 

Place on top newspaper, an old blanket, or a piece of carpet. 

HOW TO MAKE ICE CREAM OR ICES WITHOUT A FREEZER 

Cover bottom of pail with crushed ice. Put in baking powder can, tumbler, 
or lard pail containing mixture to be frozen, and surround with ice and salt. 
Place in refrigerator. Turn can or tumbler with hand occasionally, and as soon as 
it begins to freeze, scrape frozen mixture from sides of can with a knife or spatula, 
and beat mixture with spoon, continuing until mixture is frozen. 

APRICOT ICE 

J^ lb. dried apricots. 2 c. sugar. 

1 qt. milk. J/^ c. lemon juice. 

Stew apricots with a little water until soft. Then rub through a sieve and 
put in refrigerator. This can be done any time before the ice is wanted, as the 
colder the better. To one quart of milk, add two cupfuls granulated sugar 
and stir until dissolved. Then curdle the milk by stirring in slowly one-half 
cupful of lemon juice. Put this in refrigerator. 

Then prepare the freezer. Crack the ice and mix it with the salt — three 
parts ice to one part salt — before putting it around the can. We make our ices 
in the stationary wash tub, which is a convenient height for turning, and pre- 
vents soiling the floor. Then put the can in place in the freezer, surround it 
with the ice and salt mixture. Now mix the stewed apricots with the curdled 
milk and freeze. 

If directions are followed carefully, this can be quickly done and you will 
have at least two quarts of a delicious and wholesome ice that is of an unusually 
attractive color. If you want a larger quantity, add more water to the apricots 
when stewing them. It will be very good as this is a rich dessert. Serve with 
plain cake or wafers. 

Mrs. Lucretia Fry, 4806 Regent St., Philadelphia, Pa. 



a 



''Dry as a Bohn" 




The accompanying cut illustrates in a clear and simple manner 
the circulation of the air, and at the same time shows the internal 
construction of the Bohn Syphon Refrigerator. 

Note the construction and arrangement of the Syphons. 

The open throat presents an unobstructed passage for the 
free circulation of air between the ice and the provision chamber. 

This is most important. 

So easy to keep clean — no corners or angles for the accumula- 
tion of dirt. 

Just wipe off with a damp cloth and you can see that it is clean. 



''Dry as a Bohn'' 

The Bohn Dry Air Syphon White 

Porcelain Enamel Lined 

Refrigerator 

Is constructed on scientific principles, combined with high- 
grade workmanship and first-class material throughout. 

We claim superiority, and challenge comparison and com- 
petition on the following points: 

1. Low and uniform temperature. 

2. Pure atmosphere. 

3. Easy in keeping absolutely sanitary. 

4. Perfect circulation and absence of odors. 

5. Freedom from moisture. 

6. Economy in the consumption of ice. 

7. Perfect drainage. 

8. Porcelain enamel lining of provision chambers. 

9. Durability of construction and general appearance. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 33 



APRICOT ICE CREAM 

1 qt. milk. 1 c. evaporated apricots. 

Yolks of 8 eggs. 3 pts. rich cream. 

3 c. sugar. 
Soak apricots in cold water until soft, put on stove and heat, then pour 
the water off. Now add a pint of water and cook until tender. Strain through 
a potato ricer and let cool. Put the milk over the fire in a double boiler — have 
the eggs beaten very light with the sugar — pour on the hot milk, put back in 
the boiler and cook until it thickens. Remove and set in cold water, when cool, 
add a few grains of salt. 

Now add cream and flavor delicately with maraschino. Put in freezer 
and turn until mushy. Add apricots and freeze. Pack and set aside to ripen. 

Miss Tacie W. Lake, Higgingsville, Mo. 

APRICOT ICE CREAM 

One quart of cream, one quart can of apricots, two cups of sugar. Scald the 
cream, melt in it the sugar. Set on ice to cool. Save the juice of the can of 
apricots for pudding sauce. Rub the pulp through a sieve. When the cream is 
cool, freeze, when about half frozen, add the apricot pulp and continue freezing 
as usual. 

Mrs. C. R. Carr, 707 N. Main, Bloomington, III. 

BISCUIT GLACE 

White of 2 eggs. 2 macaroons. 

4 tbsp. powdered sugar. 4 tbsp. double cream. 

Beat egg whites, add sugar, combine with whipped cream and macaroons. 
Line bottom of mould with macaroons, fill with the mixture. Sprinkle macaroons 
on top. Pack with ice and salt. Stand till solid. 

Dorothy M. Grant, 2210 E. 35th St., Kansas City, Mo. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM 

1 pt. milk, scalded. 2 eggs. 

1 c. white sugar. 1 c. brown sugar. 

J-2 c. flour. 
Mix white sugar and flour together, add beaten eggs and milk. Put brown 
sugar in a granite spider and brown, being very careful not to burn it, then mix 
with the first ingredients, adding the milk mixture to the browned sugar. Pour 
this into the remaining milk mixture. Cook about ten minutes, cool then. 
Put in refrigerator and when cold, strain and add one teaspoonful vanilla and one 
quart of sweet cream. Freeze — this is enough for a gallon freezer. 

Miss E. O. Ericson, 517 Webster St., Red Wing, Minn. 

COCOANUT CREAM 

1 qt. cream. 1 tbsp. vanilla. 

1 c. sugar. _ 1 cocoanut grated. 

Scald half the cream with the sugar. When cool, add the rest of cream, 
vanilla and cocoanut, freeze. 

Miss Carrie Landwehr, Higginsville, Mo. 

COCOANUT ICE CREAM 

1 qt. cream. IJ^ c. sugar. 

1 pt. milk. 1 c. prepared cocoanut. 

3 cggs- Rind and juice of one lemon. 

Beat the eggs, add grated lemon rind and sugar, mix them with the milk 
in the double boiler. Stir until the mixture begins to thicken, cool then. Add 
the cocoanut and set aside in refrigerator until .cold. Add lemon juice and 
cream. Freeze. 

Mrs. C. T. Mason, 11 Fourth St. N. E., Roanoke, Va. 

CRANBERRY FRAPPE 

1 qt. cranberries. 2 c. sugar. 

2 c. water. _ Juice of 2 lemons. 

Cook cranberries and water ten minutes, then force through a sieve. Add 
sugar and lemon juice, cool and freeze. 

Mrs. J. A. Jones, Highland, Kan. 



34 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

FIG ICE CREAM 

Make a custard of the yolk of five eggs, one cupful sugar, one teaspoonful 
salt and three cupfuls milk. Strain, add one pound of figs finely chopped; cool 
and flavor with two tablespoonfuls brandy and one tablespoonful vanilla; then 
add the whites of five eggs beaten until stiff, and one and one-half cupfuls heavy 
cream beaten until stiff. Freeze, using three parts finely crushed ice to one part 
rock salt; then mold. Remove from mold and garnish with figs. 

Mrs. W. H. Sperry, 411 West Windsor St., Reading, Pa. 

FLOWERING ICE CREAM 

Line two and one-half-inch flower pots with paraffine paper. Fill with ice 
cream, cover cream with grated vanilla chocolate to represent earth, and insert 
a flower in each. 

Mrs. W. H. Sperry, 411 W. Windsor St., Reading, Pa. 

FROZEN COMPOTE 

3 pts. boiling water. 3 c. shredded pineapple. 

3 c. sugar. 3 c. mashed strawberries. 

y^ c- (crystal white) Karo. 3 large bananas, mashed. 

3 shredded oranges. Juice of 3 lemons. 

Dissolve the sugar in the v.^ater and add the Karo. Pour over the fruit 
and freeze as ice cream. 

Mrs. C. D. Hackler, 2248 Locust St., Kansas City, Mo. 

FROZEN DAINTY 
"WE THREE" 

Requires three lemons, three oranges, three bananas sliced fine, three pints 
of water, three cups of sugar. Cook sugar and water, making a syrup, and stand 
aside till cold. Add juice of the lemons and oranges and bananas, and freeze 
in a freezer. The bananas give this ice the body almost of ice cream. 

Mrs. M. Melville, 611 W. 33rd St., Kansas City, Mo. 

FROZEN NEWPORT WHIP 

Boil one pint of strawberry or raspberry juice with one pint of sugar, until 
a heavy syrup is formed. Then put aside to cool. Beat the whites of two eggs 
until foamy and add them to the syrup. Stir in one cupful of heavy cream, 
then beat the whole until light and frothy. Pour into a wetted mold and bury 
two hours in ice and salt. 

Irma Lesem, 5613 Calumet Ave., Chicago, III. 

FROZEN PEACHES 

Peel and slice two quarts of ripe peaches. Sprinkle with one pound of 
sugar. Let stand one hour, mash, add one quart of water. Freeze as you 
would ice cream. 

Mrs. p. C. Reiman, 102 S. Thirty-second St., Camden, N. J. 

FROZEN PEACHES 

One quart peaches, three small cups of sugar (scant). Peel and mash the 
peaches. Crack six of the stones, put with water and sugar into sauce pan and 
allow the syrup to boil five minutes. Strain and cool and add peaches and 
freeze. 

Gertrude Fletcher, R. F. D. No. 2, Pedro, Ohio 

FROZEN PUDDING 

2 tbsp. or Yi c. finely cut fruit (use cherries, ginger and pineapple) 

2 tbsp. best rum. 1 well beaten egg. 

Yi c. sugar. 2 c. hot milk. 

1 tbsp. flour. 2 c. cream. 

Pour the rum over the fruit, soak over night in refrigerator. Stir 
the flour and sugar together, add egg. Pour over this the milk. Cook in 
double boiler until like cream. When cool, add the cream. I make custard 
mixture night before, keeping it in the refrigerator and add cream in the 
morning. Partly freeze. Then add fruit and finish. Let stand one hour 
to ripen. This recipe is for a quart freezer. 

Mrs. H. W. Marden, 22 Portland St., Lynn, Mass. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 35 

FROZEN STRAWBERRY SHERBET 

Other berries can be used. Two quarts of crushed berries, one pint sugar, 
one quart of ice water, white of two eggs, well beaten, freeze. Will serve ten. 

Mrs. H. B. Cook, North Bend, Neb. 

FRUIT SORBET 

3 qts. strawberries. 3 oranges. 

4 bananas. 4 c. sugar. 

4 lemons. 1 egg. 

1 c. cream. 
Crush strawberries and bananas, add the juice of lemons and oranges, 
ilso sugar. Then add the beaten eggs and lastly the cream. Freeze. 

Mrs. W. S. Kuser, 536 S. Fifty-second St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

FRUIT WATER ICE 

^ gal. water. 1 qt. strawberries. 

5 c. sugar. 1 pineapple. 

6 lemons. 1 banana. 

Whites of 2 eggs. 
Squeeze juice from lemons, mash other fruit through colander, beat eggs 
slightly, mixing all. Freeze together as ice cream. This makes one gallon. 
Mrs. J. A. Sauceman, R. D. No. 4, Box 19, Tarkio, Mo. 

GRAPE FRUIT SHERBET 

Soak one tablespoonful gelatine in a little water fifteen minutes. 

Take three cupfuls of sugar and one pint of water and boil five minutes. 
Then dissolve the soaked gelatine in the hot syrup. 

When the syrup is cold, add the pulp of six grapefruits (without membrane 
walls) and freeze until hard. 

Mrs. B. a. Cowgill, Clarks, Neb. 

GRAPE SHERBET 

4 c. water. ^ c. orange juice. 

2 c. sugar. J4 c. lemon juice. 

2 c. grape juice. 
Make a syrup by boiling water and sugar together fifteen minutes. Add 
fruit juices, cool and strain. Freeze. Good to serve with a meat course or as a 
dessert. 

Mrs. J. Fenstermacher, Jr., Cedar Bluffs, Neb. 

GRAPE SHERBET 

J^ box Knox gelatine. 2 lemons. 

1 pt. grape juice. 1 orange. 

1 pt. water. 1 c. sugar. 

Soak gelatine in one-half cup cold water five minutes. Boil sugar and water 
to a syrup and add dissolved gelatine. When partly cooled add juice of the 
lemons, orange and grape juice. Freeze. Excellent to serve with the meat 
course. 

Mrs. L. E. Finson, Niantic, III. 

ICE CREAM 

Two quarts milk, two cups granulated sugar, six eggs well beaten, pinch 
salt. Cook until it begins to thicken, strain and cool. When ready to freeze 
add one quart sweet cream and flavoring 

ICELESS ICE CREAM 

1 c. thick sweet cream. 1 tbsp. sugar. 

12 marshmallows. 1 tsp. vanilla. 

12 maraschino cherries. 1 c. pecan nut meats. 

Whip cream, add marshmallows cut up in fine pieces, then cherries cut in 
halves. Add sugar, flavoring and part of nuts cut fine. Put in individual molds. 
Sprinkle the rest of the nuts over top and place whole cherries in center of mold. 
Keep on ice in refrigerator, until ready to serve. 

Mrs. Hugh Corey, Stroud, Oklahoma. 



36 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

ICED PLUM PUDDING 

1 pt. cream. M c- candied cherries. 

3 tbsp. gelatine. ^ c. diced pineapple. 

Y> c. pulverized sugar. Ji c. figs cut into small pieces. 

1 tbsp. brandy (or 1 tsp. vanilla). J4 c. Malaga raisins cut in halves. 

Whip the cream until stiff; add the sugar and brandy. Mix the gelatine 
with one-half cupful of cold water and let stand in a pan of hot water until 
dissolved. Stir the dissolved gelatine into the cream and add the fruit. Wet 
a bread pan with cold water and turn the pudding into it. Place directly on the 
ice in refrigerator for at least three hours. Stir it occasionally so that the gelatine 
will be evenly distributed. When ready to serve, turn out on a platter and slice 
like brick ice cream. Mrs. C. E. Jones, 5036 Park Ave., Chicago, III. 

IMITATION WHIPPED CREAM 

Grate two large raw apples, add white of one egg, one cup sugar, flavor with 
vanilla. Beat hard for twenty minutes. Set on ice. This makes excellent 
whipped cream for any kind of fruit salad. 

Mrs. F. M. Costello, 190 Etna St., Ironton, Ohio. 

LEMON FRUIT CREAM 

Soak one tablespoonful of granulated gelatine in cold water to cover. Dis- 
solve one-half cupful of sugar in one-half cupful of lemon juice, in double boiler. 
Beat the yolks of four eggs with another half cupful of sugar; stir them into the 
lemon syrup and cook until a smooth custard. Add the softened gelatine and 
beat occasionally until it cools. Then fold in the stiffly beaten whites and one 
cupful of thick cream whipped stiff. Freeze and serve with French sauce, made 
with one cupful of candied or chopped fruit, and two cupfuls of sweetened 
whipped cream. Mrs. B. A. Cowgiil, Clarks, Neb. 

LEMON MILK SHERBET 

1 qt. milk. Juice of 3 lemons. 

3 c. sugar. 
Mix sugar and milk together, put into the can, turn until chilled, then add 
juice of lemons to prevent curdling of milk. 

Alice Stewart, 216 W. Irving St., Oshkosh, Wis. 

MAPLE MOUSSE 

1 pt. double cream. 1 scant cup maple syrup. 

4 eggs. 
Separate eggs and put yolks with syrup in a bowl, stir well and then put 
in a double boiler and cook until the mixture is as thick as a custard. Whip 
cream until stiff, also whites of eggs. When the syrup mixture is beginning to 
cool, add the whipped cream and the whites of the eggs, then put into a mold 
and when cold, set in refrigerator for four hours. Serve in tall stem glasses. 
Mrs. J. H. Parker, R. R. No. 5, Rosedale, Kan. 

MAPLE MOUSSE 

Beat yolks of six eggs until light, then add three-fourths cupful maple syrup 
and boil ten minutes in double boiler, stirring constantly. Let cool and add one 
and one-half pints of cold whipped cream until stiff, beat again. You may add 
nuts, cherries or anything you like or use plain. Beat again and pack in freezer. 

In packing, using equal parts of salt and ice, do not turn the freezer, but 
let it stand several hours. 

Hannah J. Kennedy, 410 N. 4th St., Springfield, III. 

MINT ICE 

To serve with roast lamt. 

4 c. sugar} Boiled 10 minutes. 

5 c. water ^ 

One tablespoonful gelatine soaked in a little cold water and added to the 
boiling syrup. 

Flavor with mint syrup, bought at any grocery store, and color a light 
green with any pure vegetable coloring. 

Freeze with two-thirds crushed ice and one-third salt. When half frozen, 
add the beaten whites of three eggs. 

For cranberry ice to serve with chicken, add cranberry jelly to taste, in 
place of the mint and coloring. 

Mrs. S. R. Williams, 260 Oak St., Oberlin, Ohio. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 37 

NOUGAT ICE CREAM 

Three cups milk, one cup sugar, yolks five eggs, one teaspoon salt, one and 
one-half cups heavy cream, whites five eggs. One-third cup each pistachio, 
filbert, and English walnuts and almond meats. One teaspoon almond extract, 
one tablespoon vanilla. Make a custard of first four ingredients, strain and 
cool, add heavy cream, beat until stiff, add nut meats finely chopped, flavor and 
freeze. Mrs. A. S. Dalrymple, 411 East St., Warren, Pa. 

ORANGE DELICIEUSE 

2 c sugar J t, •. -i i • i 1 c. heavy cream. 

1 c. water} ^°'' """^'^ ^^'''^- H c shredded orange peel. 

2 yolks eggs. 2 c. orange juice. 
1 c. thin cream. 

Freeze, using one part salt and three parts- ice. 

Mrs. L. a. Kellogg, 4175 Knox St., Denver, Col. 

ORANGE ICE CREAM 

Juice of three oranges and two lemons. Sweeten with two cupfuls of granu- 
lated sugar, add one quart of sweet cream. Freeze as for ice cream. This 
will make two quarts when frozen. 

Mrs. C. G. Vasey, Collins, Ia. 

PEACH ICE CREAM 

Make plain ice cream mixture. Select large, ripe peaches,_ peel and run 
through sieve. Place cream mixture in freezer and when it begins to set, add 
one pint of crushed fruit to one quart of the cream and freeze stiff. 

Mrs. Guy S. Graham, Wetmore, Kan. 

PINEAPPLE ICE 

1 medium sized can of grated pineapple. 3 c. sugar. 

Juice of 2 lemons. 4 c. water. 

Let sugar and water come to a boil, then cool. Mix all together and freeze. 
This makes three quarts. 

Mrs. J. F. Sawyer, 516 Olive St., Kansas City, Mo. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET WITH CREAM 

Grate two pineapples and mix with two quarts of water and one pint of 
sugar. Add the juice of two lemons and beaten whites of four eggs. 

Place in freezer, when this begins to set, add one pint of thick cream and 
freeze. Mrs. Guy S. Graham, Wetmore, Kan. 

RASPBERRY ICE 

Mash and squeeze red raspberries through a jelly bag until there is one 
pint of juice. Add this to a syrup made of one pound of granulated sugar and 
one pint of water dissolved and boiled five minutes. Then set in refrigerator to 
cool. Pour mixture into a freezer and freeze. Serve in sherbet glasses. 

RASPBERRY ICE CREAM 

1 qt. milk. 2 c. sugar. 

1 pt. cream. Juice of 1 qt. raspberries, 

4 eggs. strained through cheesecloth. 

Beat sugar and eggs to a cream. Add cream and then milk and lastly the 
juice of the berries. Sometimes I use all milk and it is nice, only not so rich. 

Louise H. Baker, Central Village, Conn. 

RASPBERRY SHERBET 

1 qt. black raspberries. 1 c. sugar. 

Juice 3 lemons. 1 tsp. gelatine dissolved in a 

1 c. water. little cold water. 

White of 2 eggs. 
2 doz. marshmallows. 
Put raspberries through fine sieve, dissolve sugar in hot water and let come 
to boil. Pour over dissolved gelatine and let cool. Add raspberries and lemon 
juice and freeze until mushy. Then add egg whites beaten. Freeze until stiff 
and when removing dasher, stir in marshmallows. 

Mrs. Karl L. Spence, Franklin, Neb. 



38 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

RASPBERRY SHERBET 

Two cupfuls of sugar, three cupfuls of water, two cupfuls of crushed rasp- 
berries, juice of two lemons. 

Boil sugar and the water together for twenty minutes, then add the crushed 
fruit and the lemon juice. Remove from the fire and when cold, strain through 
a sieve. Serve very cold. 

Mrs. Winthrop Dunbar, Jr., 36 West St., Bristol, Conn. 

RED RASPBERRY ICE 

4 c. water. 2 c. raspberry juice. 

1^ c. sugar. 2 tbsp. lemon juice. 

Make a syrup by boiling sugar and water twenty minutes. Cool, add rasp- 
berries, mashed and squeezed through double thickness of cheesecloth. Add 
lemon juice, strain and freeze. 

Note. To make raspberry sherbet, add stiffly beaten white of one egg 
when partly frozen. 

Mrs. B. F. Fenton, 3323 Park Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 

RHUBARB SHERBET 

Wash rhubarb, but do not peel; cut fine, cover with an equal weightof sugar 
and water, and cook in double boiler until very soft, drain through cheesecloth. 
To one pint of the pulp, add the strained juice of one lemon, more sugar if needed 
and tint with carmine to make a delicate shade. Chill in refrigerator. 

Serve in cups with candied ginger cut into bits. The flavor may be varied 
by steeping with the fruit, the rind of one lemon, or one-half bayleaf, or a bit of 
stick cinnamon, or by mixing the fruit, the pulp and juice of one pineapple, or 
if you approve, use rum or claret. 

Hedwig David, 511 S. Sixteenth St., St. Joseph, Mo. 

ROMAN PUNCH 

Mix one quart of water, juice of two lemons, rind of one, juice of four oranges 
and one pound of sugar. Mix well. Freeze in ice cream freezer and when half 
frozen, add one cup of the rum and the four whites of egg well beaten, putting 
in two tablespoonfuls sugar. The result, when well frozen, will be delicious. 

Miss Fannie Louis, Grundy Center, Iowa 

ROOF GARDEN GLACE 

Cover the bottom of small paper cases with vanilla ice cream, sprinkle ice 
cream with marron glace broken in pieces, arrange lady fingers at equal distances, 
and allow them to extend one inch above cases. Pile whipped cream, sweetened 
and flavored, in the center and garnish with marron glace and candied violets 
or glace cherries. 

Mrs. W. S. Kuser, 536 S. Fifty-second St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

SNOW ICE 

1 pt. lemon juice. 1 qt. sugar. 

1 qt. water. Whites of 5 eggs. 

Boil the sugar and water to a syrup, skimming as it cooks. Let it cool and 
add the lemon juice. Freeze, and when frozen, add the well beaten whites of 
five eggs. This is a very beautiful, pure white ice. 

Mrs. Mary Danner, 918 W. Jefferson St., Springfield, III. 

STRAWBERRY ICE 

Pulp and strain one quart of ripe strawberries. Take one pound of sugar 
and dissolve in a little water and boil until it will spin a thread from the spoon. 
Add to the strawberry juice and freeze. 

When frozen, line a half gallon mold, half-inch thick with the frozen cream 
and fill center of mold with a Charlotte Russe, or any desired filling. Cover 
mold with white paper, press top on carefully, and tie a buttered strip of cloth 
around, to keep salt water out, and then cover with salt and ice for several hours, 
putting more salt than for ordinary freezing, using one-third salt and two-thirds 
ice. 

Decorate the dish with green strawberry leaves and fresh strawberries with 
stems attached. A beautiful dish. 

Mrs. L. B. Dove, Hineston, La. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 39 

STRAWBERRY SHERBET 

One pint sugar, one pint strawberry juice, one-half cup orange juice, one- 
fourth cup lemon juice, juice fromi can of pineapples, one quart boiling water, 
cracked ice. Put the sugar into the boiling water and when dissolved add the 
fruit juice, Serve with cracked ice in each glass. 

Mrs. Herman Hacker, 424 S. 6th St., Ironton, Ohio. 



SURPRISE SHERBET 

3 c. orange juice. 2 lemons. 

3 c. grape juice. 1 c. sugar. 

1 qt. water. 
Mix together and freeze. When ready to serve, fill glasses one-fourth full. 
Drop a few strawberries or cherries into each glass. 

M. Elizabeth Gitt, 221 High St., Hanover, Pa. 



VANILLA ICE CREAM 

Beat one and one-half pints of milk and three tablespoons of gelatine to- 
gether, then beat four eggs, add one pint of cream and three cups of sugar, one 
tablespoon and one teaspoon vanilla, then turn the mixture into the freezer, 
add enough milk to fill your freezer when frozen (or have the freezer half full). 

For chocolate ice cream add six tablespoons Bensdorph cocoa or chocolate. 
Mrs. Jas. M. Staples, R. 2, Box 25, Woonsocket, R. I. 



40 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



^alatr^si | 



! 



SIMPLE salads consist of fresh vegetables which require no cooking — as 
lettuce, endive, cress, etc., served with a dressing. Cooked vegetables, 
meat, fish, eggs, cheese, or fruits are also used for salads. 

A salad must be served cold. 

The salad should be prepared daintily, and arranged attractively. 

Lettuce and other salad plants should be fresh, crisp and clean. 

Wash thoroughly leaf by leaf, chill in very cold water, and dry by pressing 
between clean dry towels. 

Do not add the salad dressing to greens until just before serving. 

Use a fork in mixing salad ingredients. 

Do not leave a metal spoon or fork in the salad ingredients any length of 
time, a poisonous compound may be formed. 

Salad greens are valuable for the water and potash salts they contain. 

A meat, fish or egg salad served with a cooked or Mayonnaise dressing, 
contains a great deal of nourishment, and when served should be one of the chief 
foods of the meal. 

Serve a vegetable or a fruit salad with a hearty meal. 

A BOHN-LESS SALAD 

Dice carrots and boil until tender. Place in refrigerator until serving time, 
then mix with sliced-chilled cucumbers and mayonnaise dressing, arrange on 
lettuce leaves and strip the top with sardines which have been on ice for several 
hours. A most excellent dish for lunch. Mrs. W. O. Harvey, Mild, Me. 

ADIRONDACK SALAD 

1 can of good brand of peas. 4 sweet pickles chopped fine. 

4 tbsp. grated cream cheese. 3 small onions chopped fine. 

Combine ingredients. Put a good Mayonnaise dressing over all and chill 
in refrigerator. 

Mrs. Fred Thomas, Jave College St. E., Cedar Rapids, Iowa. 

ALLIGATOR PEAR PARADISE 

Select three nice ripe alligator pears, evenly cut them in halves lengthwise. 
Remove the stones. Carefully scoop out the pear's meat with a teaspoon. 
Place the scallops in a bowl with half the quantity of finely cut, cleaned, tender 
celery, one ounce of salted pecans, three tablespoonfuls of chili sauce, five table- 
spoonfuls of Mayonnaise, the juice of one-half lemon, salt and paprika to taste. 
Gently mix. Evenly divide this salad into the six halves of pears, lay two nice 
slices of fresh tomatoes on each. Arrange on a dish with lettuce leaves around 
and serve very cold. 

Mrs. M. Lescarboura, 321 Alice St., Pittsburg, Pa. 

APPLE SALAD 

6 minced or chopped apples. Few white grapes. 

1 small bunch of celery. 3^ c. English walnuts. 

Do not add nuts until ready to serve as they may turn the salad a little dark. 
Serve with Mayonnaise dressing. Mrs. H. T. Bradley, Wathena, Kan. 

ASPIC JELLY SALAD 

Soak one-half box gelatine in one-half cup cold water for one hour. Add 
to two and one-half cupfuls of boiling water, three teaspoonfuls beef bouillon, 
a pinch of salt, a few drops of tabasco, a teaspoonful of onion juice and one-half 
teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Add the gelatine, strain the mixture and 
cool. When half cooled, add a small can of pate de foie gras, one slice of tongue, 
five olives and two teaspoonfuls of pecan meats. Pour into molds and chill on 
ice in a Bohn Syphon refrigerator for four hours. Serve on lettuce leaves with 
Mayonnaise dressing and capers. This, made with canned salmon instead of 
foie gras, is delicious. 

Mabel E. Hauer, 517 Washington Blvd., Kansas City, Kan. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 41 



BANANA SALAD 

Cut bananas in half (not lengthwise). Cover with Mayonnaise dressing 
and roll in peanuts which have been rolled fine. Serve on lettuce leaves and 
serve thoroughly chilled. One quart of nuts will cover one dozen bananas. 
Mrs. T. B. McCarriar, 434 E. Worth Ave., Baltimore, Md. 

BEAN SALAD 

Take one can of kidney beans, drain off all the liquor. Add one large stalk 
of celery cut into dice, four small cucumber pickles cut in dice; two hard boiled 
eggs sliced, one-half cupful walnut meats broken into pieces. Pour over this 
mixture a Mayonnaise dressing and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Mabel E. Hauer, 517 Washington Blvd., Kansas City, Kan. 

BEEF SALAD 

Cut in very thin small pieces any left over beef, a small new onion sliced 
thin and a little parsley. Mix in a bowl, one part vinegar to two parts oil or 
melted butter. Add pepper, salt and mustard to taste. Beat together well 
and pour over the meat, set in refrigerator for an hour. Then serve on crisp 
lettuce. 

Mrs. H. J. Linkenheimer, Plummer Ave., Emsworth, Pa. 

BEEF TONGUE SALAD 

Boil tongue until tender with plenty of salt. Skin while warm. When 
cool, cut in small pieces or run through meat chopper. Then chop four to six 
hard boiled eggs, one bunch of celery and three to six sour pickles. 

Mix this either with Mayonnaise or a boiled dressing made of one-half 
cupful vinegar, one tablespoonful sugar, one-half teaspoonful black pepper, one 
teaspoonful salt and two tablespoonfuls butter. 

BIRD NEST SALAD 

1 head lettuce. 1 dozen stuffed olives. 

1 lb. cream cheese. Salad dressing. 

Green color paste. 
_ Put cheese through meat chopper. Mix with olives cut fine and moisten 
with salad dressing. Color delicate green with green color paste. Form into 
small_ balls. Place four or five on lettuce leaves to a serving. Dot with salad 
dressing and chill thoroughly. Serve cold with toasted crackers. Split common 
crackers. Place small piece of butter on each and brown in oven. 
Serve with queen salad dressing. 

Mrs. C. Everett Whitney, Andover, N. H. 

A DELICIOUS SALAD 

To one small chopped pineapple or a can of pineapple, add one pint of 
seeded wax cherries and a half cup of shelled and chopped English walnuts, chill 
these thoroughly in refrigerator, then mix with a good salad dressing, preferably 
mayonnaise without mustard, into which has been beaten a teacupful of whipped 
cream. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

Mrs. E. C. Wiley, College Park, Lynchburg, Va. 

BOHN SYPHON MONDAY SALAD 

2 lbs. chopped cold roast pork (left from Sunday's roast). 
1 hard boiled egg, chopped with the meat. 
5 large red radishes chopped with skins on. 

Salad dressing chilled in Bohn Syphon refrigerator. 
Garnish with large red radishes cut in form of roses. Keep on ice in 
refrigerator until served. 

J. S. Salls, 26 Canonbury Rd., Jamaica, N. Y. 

BOILED SALAD DRESSING 

12 eggs, yolks only. 1>^ tsp. mustard. 

1 tsp. salt. 1 tbsp. sugar. 

2 tbsp. Worcester sauce. 
Beat eggs well while adding seasoning. Add few grains of cayenne pepper, 
one cupful melted butter. Beat eggs while adding butter. 

Pour over eggs one-half cupful scalded vinegar, beating all the time. Put in 
double boiler. Cook and stir until thick. Beat again. Add juice of one lemon. 
If placed in refrigerator, this will keep an indefinite time and may be thinned 
with cream as used. 

Mrs. R. p. Jeter, Box 728, Cameron, Texas. 



42 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

CABBAGE SALAD 

Chop a small, firm head of cabbage very fine. Season to taste with salt and 
pepper. Beat one egg yolk with one-half cupful sugar, one-half cupful vinegar, 
one teaspoonful dry mustard and one tablespoonful butter. Heat all together 
and pour over the chopped cabbage. Stir thoroughly. 

Margaret Adams Hill, 1031 Fremont St., Belvidere, III. 

CABBAGE AND MINT SALAD 

1 envelope gelatine. 3 tbsp. sugar. 

]/2 c. cold water. Juice of 2 lemons. 

% c. mild vinegar. 2 c. finely shredded cabbage. 

1 pt. boiling water. 1 c. celery cut in small pieces. 

1 c. mint finely chopped. 34 can sweet red peppers, finely cut. 

1 tsp. salt. 
Steep the finely chopped mint for one hour in the cup of vinegar sweetened 
with sugar. Soak the gelatine five minutes in cold water. Pour the water 
from the mint over the gelatine. Let dissolve. Strain and when beginning to 
set, add the remaining ingredients. Turn into molds dipped into cold water. 
Serve on lettuce leaves with Mayonnaise dressing. 

Mrs. S. M. Watson, Tekoa, Wash. 

CARROT SALAD I 

Carrots, diced and cooked in salt water. Chopped walnuts. 

Celery. Salad dressing. 

When carrots are cold, add celery, walnuts and salad dressing. 

Mrs. J. P. Landaman, St. Edward, Neb. 

CARROT SALAD II 

3 c. cooked, diced, new carrots. Chopped chives or onion juice. 

1 head lettuce or other greens. 6 tbsp. vinegar. 

Parsley. J^ level tsp. salt. 

1 c. cooked new peas. J^ level tsp. pepper. 

French dressing. 
This is enough to serve six to eight people. 

Add part of dressing, chives or onion juice, and one tablespoonful chopped 

parsley to the carrots, mix lightly and stand aside in a cold place. At serving 

time, heap on crisped lettuce leaves, garnish with the peas, a little mound at 

each side of the carrots. Pour over remainder of dressing, and serve very cold. 

H. Handen, 14 N. Patterson Park Ave., Baltimore, Md. 

CELERY SALAD 

1 c. celery chopped fine. 1 c. whipped cream. 

1 c. Mayonnaise. 1 green pepper, chopped fine. 

Y2 c. pecans. 
Season celery and pepper and pecans with salt. Then mix with Mayonnaise, 
then fold in the whipped cream. Soak two tablespoonfuls gelatine in a little 
water and dissolve over boiling water, then mix in the above. Put in a mold and 
put in refrigerator for several hours. Put on lettuce leaves and serve with a 
little Mayonnaise. Serve sparingly as it is very rich. 

Mrs. David C. Loker, 5845 A Von Verson Ave., St. Louis, Mo. 

CELERY, APPLE AND NUT SALAD 

Clean the celery and lettuce and set it to crisp in a wet napkin on the Ice. 
When ready to serve, cut the celery in thin, crescent-shaped pieces, cut the apples 
in eights, remove the core, skin and slice crosswise in thin pieces, then crumble 
the pecans or walnuts. Take equal parts celery and apple and one-quarter part 
nuts. Mix with mayonnaise to hold together. Arrange the mixture on a 
platter in a mold with lettuce around the edge, cover with mayonnaise and 
garnish with thin rings or crescents of red skinned apples and celery tips. 

Miss Leah Landwehr, Higginsville, Mo. 

CHEESE, PEAR AND NUT SALAD 

Fill center of a dish with cream cheese passed through a ricer. Peel and 
core some pears and fill centers with chopped nuts and celery, then place around 
mound of cheese. Place in the refrigerator and chill. Serve with mayonnaise. 

Mrs. Lillie Zinnecker, Polk, Neb. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 43 

CHERRY SALAD 

Clean cherries, remove stems and stones and fill cavities thus made with 
filberts. 

Arrange in nests of crisp lettuce leaves. Garnish with cream Mayonnaise 

dressing, made by adding one-fourth cupful whipped cream to three-fourths 

cupfuls boiled Mayonnaise which has been thoroughly chilled in refrigerator 

Place two or three cherries on top of each nest, leaving stems and stones in these. 

Mrs. H. J. LiNKENHEiMER, Plummer Ave., Emsworth, Pa. 

CHIFFON SALAD 

3^ c. figs cut in small pieces. Yi c shredded pineapple. 

J^ c. dates cut in small pieces. 3 oranges. 

yi c. sugar. 
Cut oranges in halves, remove pulp, cut in small pieces and place orange 
shells on ice in refrigerator to stiffen. Add sugar to fruits and mix with fruit 
Mayonnaise dressing. Fill shells with the mixture, and heap whipped cream 
on top. Serve very cold on a bed of lettuce leaves. 

Miss J. Jarvais, 701 Twenty-sixth Ave. N. E., Minneapolis, Minn. 

COLD SLAW SALAD 

J^ head cabbage, chop fine. 1 piece of pimento, chopped. 

4 hard boiled eggs, chopped. Yi tsp. celery seed. 

Mix with dressing as follows: 
Yolk of 2 eggs. 1 tbsp. butter. 

Yi c. sugar. 1 tsp. salt. 

Y c. cream. 2 tbsp. sugar. 

}/i c. vinegar. 1 tsp. mustard. 

Mix salad dressing ingredients and cook until thickened in a double boiler 
stirring constantly. Add to cabbage and mixture. 

Mrs. Catherine Lauer, 818 N. Fourth St., Springfield, III. 

COLD CABBAGE SALAD 

1 firm head cabbage. % c. sugar. 

2 or 3 stalks celery. 1 tsp. ground mustard. 
Salt. \Yi c. vinegar. 

3 eggs. Red apples. 

Chop together very fine cabbage and celery. Sprinkle with salt and let 
stand while preparing dressing. 

Pour vinegar into a saucepan, if very strong dilute with little water. 
Place over fire until brought to scalding point. Beat two of the eggs until light 
add sugar and beat well. Add mustard and beat more. Stir this rapidly into 
the scalded vinegar and let cool until thick. 

Squeeze the salt water from cabbage and celery. 

Pour the dressing over this. 

Hollow out as many red apples as there are guests to be served. Notch 
around top of each. Fill with salad and place slice of hard boiled egg on top 
of each. Place each on a lettuce leaf and put into refrigerator to chill until served. 
Mrs. J. C. Strickler, "Fairview," Roanoke, Va. 

COLD SLAW WITH SOUR CREAM 

Chop one-quarter of a head of cabbage. Do not salt it. Set in refrigerator 
until ready to serve. Then put a portion on each plate and on the top of each 
portion put two tablespoonfuls of sour cream dressing made as follows: 

Whip one cupful thick sour cream until stiff, add gradually one-half cupful 
strong vinegar and one-half cupful granulated sugar, alternately, and stir in 
one-half teaspoonful salt. Keep in a cool place until you serve. 

Mrs. Chester Dukeman, 2144 N. Main St., Decatur, III. 

COMBINATION SALAD 

2 c. cold navy or kidney beans. 1 stalk celery, finely chopped. 

2 sour pickles, finely chopped. 1 small onion, finely chopped. 

2 hard boiled eggs, finely chopped. Mayonnaise to mix well. 

Serve cold on lettuce leaves. 
Mrs. J. C. Lindersmith, 2309 E. Thirty-eighth, Kansas City, Mo. 



44 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

CORN SALAD 

12 ears green corn, chopped fine. 1 c. sugar. 

4 green peppers, chopped fine. 2 tbsp. salt. 

1 head cabbage, chopped fine. 2 tbsp. mustard. 

3 pts. vinegar. 
Put all together, boil ten minutes, can hot. This will keep for year round. 
Serve on lettuce leaves. Use from refrigerator or cold cellar. To be eaten with 
cold meats. 

Mrs. Coit A. Chappell, 87 Howard St., New London, Conn. 

COOKED SALAD DRESSING 

Yi c. sugar. 1 tsp. mustard. 

Y2 tsp. salt. 2 eggs. 

1 tbsp. flour. Y2 c. vinegar (mild). 

Mix dry ingredients, add eggs, well beaten, mix thoroughly with dry ingred- 
ients, add vinegar and mix thoroughly. Cook in double boiler, stirring well 
until thick. Cook fifteen minutes. Thin with milk or cream as needed. 
Whipped cream beaten with the cooked mixture just before serving makes a 
delicious, light, stiff, but not thick dressing. 

Miss Caroline N. McNeil, R. F. D. No. 5, Logansport, Ind. 

CRAB PIMENTO SALAD 

Take twelve large crabs and boil, if you cannot get fresh crabs take a large 
can of crabs. Pick meat out and save shells. Take six olives, six pickles, six 
hard boiled eggs, one box of pimentoes. Cut all in small pieces. Save three of 
the yolks. Make a Mayonnaise, add some to the ingredients and fill the shells. 
Then spread some Mayonnaise on top. Chop the three yolks fine, spread some 
down the center, take one of the pimentoes and cut in small pieces. Put around 
each side of the chopped-up eggs, put in refrigerator and leave until ready to 
serve. 

Mrs. E. M. Leman, 819 Market St., Shreveport, La. 

CRYSTAL SALAD 

1^ tbsp. granulated gelatine. Speck of salt. 

Y c- cold water. % c. sugar. 

\Yi c. boiling water. J/g c. lemon juice. 

1 c. marshmallows. 1 c. diced pineapples. 

Soak gelatine in cold water to soften. Add the boiling water and sugar, 
stirring until dissolved. Add the lemon juice. Strain through a wet cheese- 
cloth into a mold and set on ice in refrigerator. When ready to serve, whip up 
the gelatine, adding the marshmallows and pineapple. Serve on heart of lettuce 
leaf with boiled dressing and whipped cream. Serve with cheese straws. 

CUCUMBER "BOATS" 

Peel young, small-seeded cucumbers thin, then cut in halves lengthwise, 
allowing one-half cucumber to each person. Carefully remove pulp from centers 
and cut this in cubes. Add chopped onion, one teaspoonful for each cucumber, 
and one teaspoonful crisped sweet pepper, in small chips. 

Marinate with French dressing and chill thoroughly. Serve on crisped 
lettuce with additional French dressing if desired. 

This is especially good as accompaniment of salmon patties. 

Ethel G. Hakes, Winter Park, Fla. 

CUCUMBER STICKS 

Cut cucumbers in sticks, their full length, about as thick .as a pencil. Place 
in refrigerator until thoroughly chilled, then serve with French dressing. 

Mrs. N. S. Bibo, Grants, N. M. 

DELICIOUS BEET SALAD 

Boil some beets and set them on ice in refrigerator to get thoroughly cold. 
Cut them up in small slices, add some nicely sliced cold potatoes and a shred 
or two of onion. Now dress it with plain French dressing. Arrange it in your 
salad dish and having chopped fine a boiled egg, arrange it over the salad, 
leaving rim uncovered on which arrange sprigs of water cress, pepper grass 
or something green. 

Mrs. Harry Teesdale, 207 Whittier St., Vandergrift, Pa. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 45 

DRIED BEEF SALAD 

1 lb. dried beef. 1 large green pepper. 

4 hard boiled eggs. 3 stalks celery. 

Mince all fine and mix with a good Mayonnaise dressing to which whipped 
cream has been added. Bessie Bassett, N. Locust St., Aledo, III. 

FISH SALAD 

Separate in flakes, cold cooked sole turbot or flounder. Marinate with 
salt, pepper and lemon juice, let stand thirty minutes. Dispose a layer of fish 
on serving dish in the form of a fish, cover with Mayonnaise and shredded lettuce. 
Repeat the layers, giving the whole the shape of a fish. Mask with Mayonnaise 
and decorate with the sifted yolks and fine chopped whites of hard boiled eggs 
and cold boiled beets. Let this remain in the refrigerator one hour before using. 
Mrs. Chas. Price, Jr., Box 484, Meridian, Miss. 

FRENCH BOILED SALAD DRESSING 

^ c. vinegar. 3^ c. sugar. 

JI c. water. 3 eggs, well beaten. 

Pinch of salt. 
Boil above until a thick cream, beating constantly. Add one tablespoonful 
butter. If too thick, thin out with cream. 

Edna Starofsky, 1402 Thirteenth St., Moline, III. 

FRUIT SALAD 

1 qt. strawberries, halved. Yi lb. dates or seeded grapes. 

3 bananas. Yi lb. grapefruit. 

1 small pineapple. Yi lb. marshmallows. 

Yi, c. English walnut meats. 
Cool in refrigerator. 

DRESSING 

2 tbsp. flour. Y% tsp. white pepper. 

Y tsp. mustard (sieve). 1 tbsp. butter. 
1 tbsp. sugar. Y ^- vinegar. 

Y c. thin cream or rich milk. 1 egg. 

1 c. whipped cream. 
Mix first. Sieve ingredients for dressing and cook while stirring constantly 
until thickened. Add the whipped cream after it has been thoroughly chilled. 
Serve either mixed with the fruit or on top of it. 

Mrs. C. H. Rhoades, 462 Park Place, Springfield, Ohio. 

FRUIT SALAD 

One package of (Advo) jell, or gelatine, one pint boiling water, one banana 
and one orange, one-half cup English walnuts. 

Dissolve package of jell, or gelatine in one pint of boiling water and let 
stand until thick syrup. 

Add one banana and one orange sliced, one-half cup nuts chopped, mix 
through well and let stand until perfectly congealed. This is nice as a salad 
served with a salad dressing or as a dessert served with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Geo. P. Willard, St. Edward, Neb. 

FRUIT SALAD 

One cup hickorynut meat, two oranges, two bananas, one can pineapple 
cut in small pieces, fill sherbert cups half full with fruit, adding sugar to taste, 
fill with whipped cream. Miss Carrie Landwehr, Higginsville, Mo. 

FROZEN FRUIT SALAD 

6 California oranges. 1 c. of walnut meats. 

Pulp of two firm grapefruit. 1 pt. of maraschino cherries. 

2 c. of pineapple. Y pt. of cream, whipped stiff. 

1 c. of Malaga grapes. 1 pt. of mayonnaise. 

Cut oranges as for a salad, take out grapefruit pulp in solid sections, skin 
and seed grapes, dice pineapple, break walnut meats in small pieces, cut cherries. 
Drain fruit and dry on a cloth. Add whipped cream to seasoned mayonnaise, 
mix fruit and mayonnaise, chill thoroughly and stir once. Place mixture in 
pound baking powder can or tins of similar size, filling about two-thirds. Pack 
in ice and salt for two hours. Serve slices on lettuce hearts. A little mayon- 
naise may be placed on each slice, also a garnish of nuts or cherries. Fruit may 
be substituted, keeping proportion of fruit and dressing the same. 

Mrs. E. S. Winslow, 179 Main St., Easthampton, Mass. 



46 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

FRUIT SALAD 

Place one pint of good cream in ice to chill, one mediunn sized pineapple cut 
into small dice, one pound marshmallows cut in quarters, two pounds of white 
grapes, cut in half and remove seeds. Mix well with the marshmallows and pine- 
apple, and put into a dish in the refrigerator to cool. Just before serving, whip 
the cream, add sugar and flavor to taste and fill your dish with this, adding a 
few candied cherries on top of cream. 

Mrs. L. p. Garringer, 708 W. Wayne St., South Bend, Ind. 

FRENCH SALAD DRESSING 

J^ tsp. salt. },4 tsp. paprika. 

14: tsp. pepper. 2 tbsp. vinegar. 

4 tbsp. oil.- 
Mix ingredients in order given, stirring vigorously. 

To MARINATE means to moisten a salad mixture with French dressing 
and then allow it to stand until well seasoned. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

J^ tsp. salt. Yolk 1 egg. 

^2 tsp. sugar. 1 tbsp. lemon juice. 

}/g tsp. paprika. 1 tbsp. vinegar. 

^ to 1 c. olive oil. 

Mix dry ingredients; add yolk.. When well mixed, add one-half teaspoonful 
vinegar. Add oil gradually, at first drop by drop, and stirring constantly. When 
very thick, add a few drops of vinegar or lemon juice, and continue to beat, 
adding oil and vinegar alternately, until the mixture is smoothly blended. The 
dressing should be thick enough to hold its shape. A Dover egg-beater is con- 
sidered time and labor saving when used in beating the ingredients. 

FRUIT SALAD DRESSING 

3 yolks. 3^3 c. vinegar. 

3^ c. sugar. }4 tsp. salt. 

Whipped cream. 
Mix the yolks, sugar, salt and vinegar. Cook in a double boiler until thick- 
ened, stirring all the time. Remove from fire; when cool, add the desired quantity 
of whipped cream. 

Prepared mustard may be added to this dressing, using less sugar, it is then 
suitable for meat or vegetable combinations. 

BOILED SALAD DRESSING 

NOTE. — Do not dilute vinegar with water; if too acid, use less of the vingear. 

GINGER ALE SALAD 

2 tbsp. granulated gelatine. ^ c. sugar. 

3^ c. cold water. 1 c. imported ginger ale. 

Few grains of salt. 3^ c. lemon juice. 

i c. boiling water. 1 c. white grapes or diced pine- 

apple. 
Soak gelatine in cold water to soften (about five minutes). Add the boiling 
water, and when dissolved add ginger ale and sugar; stir until dissolved. Add 
the lemon juice. Strain through a wet cheesecloth into a cold, wet, shallow- 
mold. Stand in a pan of ice water. When about stiffened, drop in the white 
grapes that have been peeled and cut into small pieces. Set in refrigerator. 
Serve on heart of lettuce leaf with boiled dressing and whipped cream. Serve 
with thin sandwiches of nut bread and butter. 

GOLDEN CHESTNUT SALAD 

Shell, blanch and boil until tender one pint of chestnuts. Drain, dust and 
set in refrigerator to cool. Hard boil two eggs. At serving time, arrange lettuce 
in a salad bowl, put the chestnuts over and then the Mayonnaise, using a little 
lemon juice. Hold a sieve over the bowl, rub the yolks through it, with which 
cover the salad lightly. 

Mrs. H. j. Mandel, 115 N. Snelling Ave., St. Paul, Minn. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 47 

GRAPEFRUIT, ORANGE AND PEAR SALAD 

Separate the sections of grapefruit and orange, removing all the membrane. 
Slice the pears thin, the same length as the sections of orange and grapefruit. 

On lettuce or a long leaf of endive, lay alternate sections of grapefruit, 
orange and pear. Decorate the top of salad with narrow strips of pimentoes. 
The fruit and pimentoes are to lay across the endive. 

For a dressing, use a foundation of Mayonnaise dressing, sweeten a little 
and add oil and vinegar or lemon juice. 

This makes a most attractive as well as delicious salad. 

Mrs. C. O. Deakin, 864 Clinton Ave., Plainfield, N. J. 

GRAPEFRUIT SALAD 

1 large grapefruit (the pulp cut up) 1 c. English walnuts. 

1 bunch celery (cut small) 1 can pimentoes (sliced). 

1 pkg. gelatine. 
Soak and dissolve the gelatine in one quart of water and juice of one lemon. 
Add few grains of salt and one-half cup sugar and set on ice in refrigerator to 
cool. When about to "set" or almost cold, add the first four ingredients; 
pour into molds and return to the refrigerator. 

Leave until firm and serve with Mayonnaise on lettuce leaf. 

Sarah G. Clark, 117 Woodland Ave., Lexington, Ky. 

HAM SALAD 

Grind boiled ham through chopper. Mix one pint sour cream, one-half 
pint vinegar, one tablespoon butter, two tablespoons white sugar, small table- 
spoon mustard, salt and pepper to taste. Let come to a boil, then add the 
beaten yokes of two eggs, stirring until it thickens. Set in the refrigerator, 
when chilled pour over ham. Stella Yoden, N. Indltstry, Ohio. 

HAM SALAD (Kentucky) 

Slice boiled country ham thin and lay it on a platter garnished with one 
head of lettuce. Separate the yolks from the whites of hard boiled eggs. Chop 
the whites very fine and put the yolks through a potato ricer. First lay the 
whites and then the yolks on the ham. Place in refrigerator until cold and pour 
over French dressing. 

Mrs. S. a. Blacklum, Versailles, Ky. 

HAWAIIAN SALAD 

Lay one slice of canned Hawaiian pineapple on a lettuce leaf. Moisten 
Neufchatel cheese with a little cream and spread over the pineapple. Then add 
a few pieces of canned pimento cut in fancy shape with a vegetable cutter. Heap 
Mayonnaise in the center and put a stuffed olive on top. 

Mrs. L. Scallan, 198 Billings Road, Atlantic, Mass. 

HOLIDAY "LEFT-OVER" SALAD 

1 envelope gelatine Juice of 2 lemons. 

1 c. cold stock. 1 c. celery, cut fine. 

1 c. hot turkey stock. 3-2 c. nut meats. 

Yl tsp. salt. y^ can sweet red peppers, cut fine. 

2 c. cold cooked turkey, cut in dice. 8 olives, cut fine. 

Soak the gelatine in cold water, dissolve in hot stock, and strain. When 
beginning to set, add remaining ingredients. Turn into mold, first dipped into 
cold water, and set on ice in refrigerator. 

Mrs. S. M. Watson, Tekoa, Wash. 

INDIVIDUAL SALAD 

Peel medium sized tomatoes and empty their contents, keeping the forms 
nice and firm. Now chop quite fine some cabbage, celery, apple and a few 
walnut meats. 

Mix with Mayonnaise and fill the tomato forms. Serve ice cold, one for 
each guest. 

A. L. Houghton, 1 William St., Brookline, Mass. 

KIDNEY BEAN SALAD 

1 qt. red kidney beans. 1 large or 2 small onions. 

6 medium sized sweet pickles. 2 or 3 hard boiled eggs. 

Cut fine the pickles, onions and eggs, mix with the beans. 



48 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

DRESSING 

1 tbsp. butter. 2 tbsp. sugar. 

1 tbsp. flour. . ^ <:• vinegar. 

Cook until of desired consistency and mix with the salad ingredients. Put 
in refrigerator and chill thoroughly. 

We find this delicious when eaten with a luncheon of bread and butter 
sandwiches, tea and some dainty cakes. 
Mrs. Ethel M. Schaeffer, 834 E. Fifty-sixth St., 3rd Apt., Chicago, III. 

LETTUCE SALAD 

Break ofi' the leaves of one large head of lettuce, wash and put them in a 
pan of ice water for an hour. Then shake out all the water, chop and add one- 
fourth teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful sugar, one tablespoonful vinegar, two 
boiled eggs and two tablespoonfuls French or Mayonnaise dressing. Serve at once. 
Mrs. J. D. Rice, Sr., 208 White St., Huntsville, Ala. 

LUNCHEON SALAD 

Yi box Knox gelatine. Yi c. sugar. 

3^ c. cold water. 1 tsp. salt. 

Y c. mild vinegar. 1 c. canned peas. 

1 lemon (juice). 2 c. celery, cut in small pieces. 

1 pt. boiling water. J^ c. pimento, cut in small pieces. 

J/2 c. walnut meats, cut in small pieces. 
Soak the gelatine in cold water five minutes, add vinegar, lemon juice, 
boiling water, sugar and salt, strain, and when beginning to set add remaining 
ingredients. Serve with cooked salad dressing. 

On account of the red and green color in this salad, it makes a very pretty 
Christmas salad. 

Miss Caroline N. McNeil, R. F. D. No. 5, Logansport, Ind. 

MACARONI SALAD 

1 c. cooked macaroni. H c chopped celery or cabbage. 

}/2 c. shrimp cut in pieces. 1 chopped pimento. 

1 small onion cut fine. H tbsp. chopped parsley. 

3 hard cooked eggs chopped. 
Mix altogether with a good Mayonnaise or cooked dressing and serve very 
cold on lettuce leaves. Ethel L. Phelps, Lost Nation, Iowa. 

MARGUERITE SALAD 

Cut from Neufchatel cheese little slices one-half inch in thickness, and 
from this cut out a small round with the center of a tin doughnut cutter. Grate 
a little of the yolks of hard boiled eggs in this opening, sprinkle with a little 
paprika. 

Scatter these "daisies" in the hearts of crisp lettuce leaves and serve with 
French dressing. Mrs. L. Scallan, 198 Billings Road, Atlantic, Mass. 

MARSHMALLOW SALAD 

\}4 lbs. marshmallows. 3 cans pineapple. 

}/2 lb. pecan nuts. 
Cube the pineapple, cut the marshmallows in quarters, cut pecan nuts into 
halves. When ready to serve add chopped nuts. Mix with the following 
dressing: 

Mix 1 tbsp. flour with 1 tsp. salt. 1 tbsp. melted butter. 

2 tbsp. sugar. Yolks of 6 well beaten eggs. 
1 tsp. dry mustard. }4 c vinegar. 

Mix all dry ingredients, add butter, eggs and vinegar. Cook until thick 
like cream, cool and add one-half pint whipped cream. Set on ice in refrigerator 
until ready to serve. 

MINT SALAD 

Soak and dissolve one package flavored gelatine in one-half cup cold water 
and dissolve in one cup of boiling water, flavor with mint essence. Add one 
cupful vinegar, two tablespoonful of sugar (if strong use one-half water), one 
tablespoonful dry mustard, one teaspoonful onion salt. When half congealed, 
add following vegetables chopped fine: one green pepper, three pimentoes, one 
medium sized onion, one cupful chopped celery. Serve in slices on lettuce with 
Mayonnaise dressing. Jane Machen, Savanna, III. 



''Dry as a Bohn'' 




1. 

2. 
3. 
4. 

5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 



PORCELAIN ENAMEL 
-LINING (ONE PIECE) 
^•-DEAD AIR SPACE 
5-IN51DE WOOD LINING 
4--BLACK WATERPROOF PAPER 
j-WOOLFELT PAPER 
6-FLAXLINUM INSULATION 
/-FLAXLINUM INSULATION 

-woolfelt paper 
9-Black waterproof paper 

- TSlDE WOOD CASE 



Workmanship and General Construction 



Seamless Porcelain Enamel Lining. 

Inside Wood Lining. 

3-Ply Black Neponset Waterproof Paper. 

Wool Felt Deafening Paper. 

Flaxlinum Insulation. 

Dead Air Space. 

Flaxlinum Insulation. 

Wool Felt Deafening Paper. 

3-Ply Black Neponset Waterproof Paper. 

Outside Wood Case. 



Economy and Consumptio7i of Ice 

hisulation is the keynote of a refrigerator's efficiency. Lacking insulation, 
the most elaborate appearing refrigerator is useless. Special attention has been 
devoted to attain the most perfect insulation in the Bohn Syphon Refrigerator. 

After years of practical experimenting, we have rested, satisfied that we have 
attained perfection in insulation. 

A practical combination of non-conducting, non-absorbent material and 
dead-air space. 

The cut illustrates the construction of the walls, showing ten thicknesses 
of material. 



''Dry as a Bohn'' 

Drain Pipe and Trap 




All the other features of a refrigerator may be the best, but If 
the drain pipe and trap are imperfect, it will not give satisfactory 
results. With many experiments we have produced 

DRAIN AND TRAP PERFECT IN EVERY RESPECT 

The entire drain pipe is in one piece, easily removed and easily 
cleaned. Being constructed entirely of rolled brass tubing, the pipe 
will last forever. 

The trap is automatic in its action. Needs no further at- 
tention than an occasional wiping out with a cloth. 

It is a perfect air joint, and absolutely prevents the ingress of 
warm air into the ice chamber. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 49 

MOLDED SALAD 

1 envelope Knox gelatine. M c. lemon juice. 

1 c. cold water. Yi lb. dates. 

2 c. boiling water. K lb. pecan nuts. 

^ c. sugar. Yi can sliced pineapple. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water five minutes and dissolve with the boiling 
water, add the sugar and stir until dissolved and then the lemon juice. Set in 
the refrigerator and when it begins to harden add the dates, nuts, and pineapple 
which have been chopped together. Put into individual molds in the refrigerator. 
Serve on lettuce leaf with equal portions of mayonnaise dressing and whipped 
cream mixed together. 

Miss Sophie L. Carr, 137 Union Ave., Batavia, III. 

1 box gelatine MOLDED SALAD 

3 c. water. 
Yi c. pineapple and lemon juice mixed. 

1 c. sugar. 

1 c. chopped mixed fruit: pineapple, white grapes and dates. 

1 c. any preferred nut meats. 

1 stalk celery cut in small pieces. 

Soak the gelatine a few minutes in some of the water. Add the sugar 
and the rest of the water boiling hot. This will dissolve both the sugar and 
gelatine. Add the fruit, nuts and celery last. When cool, pour into individual 
molds wet with cold water. Place in refrigerator. When needed, turn out on 
lettuce leaf or nest of lettuce. Pour over Mayonnaise dressing. Garnish with 
stuffed olives. This makes a very attractive salad. 

Sarah J. Freeman, 208 Twenty-second St., Rock Island, III. 

MOLDED TUNA SALAD 

Mix together one teaspoonful each of mustard and salt, two teaspoonfuls of 
sugar, yolks of three eggs well beaten, one cupful rich milk or thin cream and 
one-fourth cupful of vinegar. Cook over water until it is about as thick as for 
salad dressing, remove from fire, add two-thirds of a tablespoonful of gelatine 
which has soaked five minutes in one-fourth cupful water. Pour this mixture 
over one small can of tuna fish which has been separated into small pieces. Mold, 
chill and serve on lettuce leaves. Mrs. F. B. Washburn, Duarte, Cal. 

MUSHROOM SALAD 

Boil two cans of mushrooms until tender, which will take about five minutes. 
Cut in small pieces, then season with pepper and salt. Pour over them a mix- 
ture of vinegar and oil (a proportion of one tablespoonful of oil to three of vinegar). 
Let stand two hours. When ready to serve, add one-half the quantity of celery, 
cut in pieces the same size as the mushrooms. Pour over all a Mayonnaise 
dressing. Rosella Pratt, R. F. D. No. 1, Waterford, Conn. 

MUSKMELON SALAD 

Place muskmelons on ice in refrigerator for five or six hours. Open them, 
scrape out the seeds, divide into crescents, cut off the rind and green part, leaving 
the fully ripe portion only. Put these pieces in a bowl with bits of ice among 
them, pour on a French dressing. 

Mrs. Chester Dukeman, 2144 N. Main St., Decatur, III. 

NEW SALAD 

Y2 lb. marshmallows. Yl lb. almonds. 

Yi lb. pineapple. IM c. white cherries or white grapes. 

Cut marshmallows into fourths, shred pineapple. Blanch almonds and cut 
in fourths. Cut cherries or grapes in two pieces. Then add the following 
dressing to above mixture. 
y^ c. hot milk. 

Y tsp. mustard dissolved in 

Little milk, and add to hot milk, pour on 
2 well beaten egg yolks. 
Add juice of 1 lemon, let cool, then add 

Y pt. whipped cream. 

Stir this into the fruit and place in a jar with cover. Place in a refrigerator 
for at least twenty-four hours. 

Mrs. B. E. Waling, 600 E. Forty-eighth St. N., Portland, Ore. 



50 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

OLYMPIAN SALAD 

2 cucumbers, medium size, cut in dice. 
1 large Hawaiian pineapple, cut in dice. 
1 pkg. gelatine (2 envelopes granulated). 
Soak and dissolved in as little water as possible. 
Juice of 6 lemons. 
}/2 tsp. salt. 
% c. sugar. 

All the juice from can of pineapple, heated warm enough to dissolve gel- 
atine thoroughly. Add a few drops of green coloring. Be careful not to use 
too much, only enough to give a faint green tint to mixture. Mix all together. 
Place in mold. Stir gently occasionally until mixture begins to cool and place 
on ice, or if a Bohn Syphon refrigerator is used, place anywhere in refrigerator. 
Also if this refrigerator is used, less gelatine will answer, as the salad will set 
quickly in the proper temperature. 

Cut in pieces the size wished for serving. Place on crisp lettuce leaves and 
serve with Mayonnaise. If a fancy touch is desired, add broken pecan nut meats 
to the dressing. 

Will serve twelve people or more, as managed. 

Mrs. Chas. H. Nichols, Box 775, Trinidad, Col. 

ORANGE AND BANANA SALAD 

3 oranges. 3 bananas. 

A little grated cocoanut. 

Peel and cut up the oranges, removing the seeds and as much of the con- 
necting fiber as possible. Peel, scrape and cut up the bananas and add to the 
oranges. Sprinkle in the cocoanut and set the fruit aside to chill, while the 
dressing is being made. 

FOR THE DRESSING 

Juice of 2 oranges. J^ c. sugar. 

1 tbsp. lemon juice. Whites of 2 eggs. 

y^ c. sherry. 
Place all the ingredients except the wine in the inner vessel of a double 
boiler or in a bowl set in a saucepan containing boiling water. Cook until the 
mixture thickens, then strain, cool and add the wine. When cold, pour over 
the fruit previously prepared. May be served with small wafers as dessert. 
This is a salad that can be made the year around. 

Mrs. Chester Dukeman, 2144 N. Main St., Decatur, III. 

OYSTER SALAD 

Take one quart of oysters, steam till plump, or you can stew them in their 

own liquor and drain well. Cut them through once or twice; take a good sized 

bunch of celery, clean and cut in small pieces. Place in a dish in alternate layers 

and cover with a well seasoned Mayonnaise dressing. Garnish with celery tops. 

Mrs. a. M. Udall, 1806 E. Twenty-ninth St., Kansas City, Mo. 

PEA SALAD 

1 qt. green peas. 1 hard boiled egg. 

5 sweet cucumber pickles. 2-inch sq. of cream cheese. 

1 small onion. J^ c. salad dressing. 

Drain canned peas. Dice pickles, onion, egg and cheese. Add these to the 
peas. Stir in salad dressing. Then set aside in refrigerator. Serve on lettuce 
leaves. 

Miss Vera Larson, 514 Sixth St. N., Faribault, Minn. 

PEA SALAD 

1 can peas thoroughly washed and well drained. 
3 dill pickles. 
3 sweet pickles. 

Small amount of chopped cabbage. 

Celery cut line. 

Apple cut in small pieces may be added. 

Plenty of salad dressing. 

Serve very cold on lettuce leaves. 

Mrs. H. T. Bradley, R. F. D. No. 5, Wathena, Kan. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 51 

PERFECTION SALAD 

1 envelope gelatine. 1 c. finely shredded cabbage. 

3^2 c. cold water. H c. sliced tomatoes. 

Yi c. mild vinegar. 2 c. finely chopped celery. 

1 pt. boiling water. Juice 1 lemon. 

1 tsp. salt. Yi c. sugar. 

2 sweet red peppers finely chopped. 
Soak the gelatine in cold water five minutes. Add vinegar, lemon juice, 
boiling water, sugar and salt. Strain and chill on ice in refrigerator till set 
and add remaining ingredients. Turn into a fancy mold and set on ice. Serve 
on lettuce leaves with Mayonnaise dressing or cut in dice and serve in cases 
made of red or green peppers or the mixture may be shaped in mold lined 
with pimentoes. This is a delicious accompaniment to cold sliced chicken or 
veal. 

PERSIAN SALAD 

Lettuce, water cress, tomatoes and celery are the ingredients of this de- 
icious salad. Wash all thoroughly and set on ice in refrigerator for some time 
before preparing. Scald and skin four large, ripe tomatoes and cut in blocks; 
cut the celery very fine (one cupful); cut very fine a small bunch of water cress 
and one small head of lettuce. Take the yolk of one hard boiled egg, one 
tablespoonful of cream, one teaspoonful of mustard, and salt, one-half 
teaspoonful each of sugar and white pepper and a pinch of cayenne pepper. 
Beat all until perfectly smooth, then pour over the salad. Season tomatoes 
and celery separately with a few grains of salt. Garnish with fresh lettuce 
leaves. Set in refrigerator until ready to serve. 

Anna M. Branagan, 2043 Twelfth St. Bd., Chicago, III. 

PICNIC SALAD 

Take a can of peas, drain. I'o this add one tablespoonful chopped onions, 
two tablespoonfuls sweet pickles cut in dice, three tablespoonfuls of cream cheese 
cut in dice. Mix all these ingredients together with Mayonnaise dressing. Line 
salad dish with fresh sprigs of parsley. Pour in half of the salad. Arrange 
slices of hard boiled eggs on top, and a dash of salt and pepper. Pour in the 
balance, with another layer of the eggs, salt and pepper. Sprinkle with chopped 
parsley and place in refrigerator. 

Mrs. Al. A. Miller, 510 F. Ave. W., Cedar Rapids, Iowa 

PINEAPPLE AND PEAR SALAD 

Place on lettuce, one slice of pineapple, on pineapple one-half of a Bartlett 
pear (cavity down), sprinkle with coarsely cut English walnuts; pile with dress- 
ing of two parts, whipped cream and one part Mayonnaise dressing. Top with 
a cherry. Mrs. J. A. Jones, Highland, Kan. 

PIMENTO SALAD 

Soak two tablespoonfuls gelatine in one-fourth cupful cold water. Add 
one-half cupful boiling water; when dissolved, add this to one-half cupful cream 
(whipped), one-half pound of grated cheese, two pimentoes cut fine, one-half 
teaspoonful salt, and a few drops of tabasco sauce. Mix all together and put 
on ice in refrigerator for two hours. When it is hard, slice as desired. 

Mrs. L. Leason, 218 W. Sixty-second St., Chicago, III. 

PIMENTO SALAD 

1 can pimentoes. Y2 lb. cream cheese. 

4 large sour pickles. 
Run all through food chopper and mix well. Then pour over it one table- 
spoonful of melted butter. 

Chill thirty minutes in refrigerator and serve on crisp lettuce leaves. 
Mrs. Henry Rawlinson, 1308 S. Wellington St., Memphis, Tenn. 



52 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



PINEAPPLE JELLY SALAD 

Cut up one can of Hawaiian pineapple into small pieces; place in a flat, 
shallow pan and pour over it a jelly made as follows: 

To the juice from one can of pineapple add two tablespoonfuls of gelatine 
previously soaked in a little cold water and dissolved over boiling water the juice 
of one lemon (or enough to make it taste tart), and enough cold water to make 
two cupfuls of liquid. 

Place on ice in refrigerator to cool, and when solid cut in squares and serve 
on lettuce with a cream Mayonnaise dressing. 

Little squares of cream cheese with pecan meats on top, make an attractive 
addition to serve with this salad. 

Ethel C. Holley, 50 Main St., Lockport, N. Y. 

PINEAPPLE SALAD 

1 can sliced pineapple. 1 small can pimentoes. 

Yi lb. New York cream cheese. 1 head lettuce. 

Salad dressing. 
Lay pineapple on lettuce leaf, fill center with grated cheese. Cover with 
salad dressing. Then put strips of pimentoes crosswise on top. If preferred, 
stuffed olives may be used around the pineapple instead of the lettuce leaf. 
Mrs. J. J. HouGHTALiNG, 447 N. Hardesty, Kansas City, Mo. 

PINEAPPLE PIE 

Recipe makes two pies. Lengthwise measurements for half teaspoonful, 
one-half pint measuring cup used. 

PASTRY 
IJ^ c. flour. Yi tsp. salt. 

Yi, c. lard. 

Cold water enough to bind together. 

FILLING 

3 yolks of eggs well beaten. 

Cream together: 

Yi c. sugar. Yi. c. milk. 

Y c. butter. IJ'2 rounded tbsp. flour. 

1 small size can grated pineapple. 

Mix well and dispose in the crust. I do not bake this beforehand, but some 
prefer to do so. Bake slowly twenty minutes or until It sets well. Beat the 
whites of eggs stiff with three teaspoonfuls sugar for a meringue. 

POINSETTIA SALAD 

Peel and chill six tomatoes of uniform size. When ready to serve, cut in 
eighths, not severing sections and open like the petals of a flower on a lettuce leaf. 
In the center place a teaspoonful of pearl onions and serve with a French dress- 
ing to which is added one-half teaspoonful each finely chopped parsley and 
green pepper. Mrs. W. H. Sperry, 411 W. Windsor St., Reading, Pa. 

POTATO SALAD, MAYONNAISE 

Peel and boil six large potatoes; chop a head of celery into small bits; chop 
two large sour pickles into small bits; cut potatoes when cold into small bits; 
add a pinch of salt and pepper. Mix all with Mayonnaise dressing, line salad 
bowl with lettuce leaves, fill with salad mixture and chill before serving. This 
is inexpensive and the best of all family salads. 

Mabel E. Hauer, 517 Washington Blvd., Kansas City, Kan. 

QUEEN SALAD DRESSING 

1 tbsp. mustard. 1 tbsp. melted butter. 

1 tbsp. salt. Few grains cayenne. 

2 tbsp. flour. 3 eggs. 

XYi tbsp. powdered sugar. \Yl c. hot vinegar. 

XYi c. milk. 
Combine dry ingredients well and add hot vinegar gradually. Cook over 
hot water until thickened. Add beaten eggs slowly and then add milk slowly, 
stirring until quite thick, add the butter. Cool quickly by setting pan In a 
dish of cold water. Bottle when cool and keep In refrigerator. Will keep weeks 
and is convenient to have on hand all the time. 

Mrs. C. Everett Whitney, Andover, N. H. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES S3 

QUICK SALAD DRESSING 

3 tsp. sugar. 1 tsp. (scant) salt. 

1 tsp. cornstarch. 2 eggs. 

1 tsp. (scant) mustard. % c. water. 

}/i c. vinegar. 
Mix dry ingredients together. Add water and vinegar gradually, beat this 
mixture into the well beaten eggs. Have a frying pan hot and put in a lump of 
butter, when melted add the mixture and stir until it thickens. This will keep 
in refrigerator for a long time. 

Mrs. Paul Brubaker, 302 East St., Warren, Pa. 

RED PEPPER AND EGG SALAD 

A delicious salad with three hard boiled yolks of eggs powdered and mixed 
w\t\\ the oil from a can of red peppers. Cut the peppers in dice and mix with 
the egg and oil. A few drops of lemon juice may be added. Serve with hearts 
of head lettuce. 

Amelia Bratton, 1709 W. 104 Place, Chicago, III. 

RECEPTION SALAD 

One large can of sliced pineapple cut in cubes, two cups of pecan meats, 
one-half pound of marshmallows cut in quarters, mix with boiled dressing and 
whipped cream, equal parts. Chill on the ice. Serve on a white lettuce leaf, 
with a garnish of candied cherries. 

Mrs. L. V. Chandler, 3532 Park Ave., Emporia, Kan. 

RICE AND SARDINE SALAD 

To two cupfuls of rapidly boiling, salted water add one-half cupful, well 
washed rice and boil rapidly until dry, never stirring. Each grain should be 
unbroken, loose. Heap rice in middle of plate. Remove carefully the sardines 
from one tin and arrange these against the heaped rice. Chill thoroughly. 
Serve on crisped lettuce with French dressing. An excellent luncheon dish. 

Ethel G. Hakes, Winter Park, Fla. 

ROMAINE SALAD 

1 head romaine. 1 large tomato. 

1 cucumber. Roquefort cheese. 

Wash romaine thoroughly, drain, wrap in cheesecloth and place on ice to 
become crisp. Peel cucumber and let remain in cold water in ice box until ready 
for use. Pour boiling water on tomato and remove skin, also place on ice. 

Just before serving make a salad dressing of following: 

J^ tsp. salt. Dust paprika. 

14: c. olive oil. 

Few drops vinegar in which a clove of garlic has been 

Mix salt and paprika, add oil drop by drop, and then the vinegar slowly, 
with a small piece of cracked ice beaten in. Beat until creamy and pour over 
salad. Then grate roquefort cheese over and serve. 

Mrs. L. H. Leonard, 2308 Edmondson Ter., Baltimore, Md. 

RUSSIAN DRESSING 

Place in a bowl six tablespoonfuls Mayonnaise, four tablespoonfuls chili 
sauce, one tablespoonful vinegar, two tablespoonfuls cream, one-half teaspoonful 
salt, a little paprika, one finely chopped green pepper, one finely chopped sweet 
red pepper and one-half teaspoonful chopped chives. Mix well and keep cold. 

SALAD 

Take a perfect tomato, pare and quarter, leaving the bottom of the tomato 
uncut. Pull open so as to resemble a rose, place on a lettuce leaf. Hard boil 
an egg, cut the white in narrow strips, and lay on lettuce leaf at base of tomato, 
then crumble the yolk and garnish top of tomato, cover whole with dots of thick 
Mayonnaise dressing. This makes a most attractive and appetizing salad. 
Keep in refrigerator. 

Mrs. Bartow N. Ayres, 21 Spring St., Stamford, Conn. 



54 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



SALAD 

Boiled parsnips and beets chopped fine, 3 to 5 of each. 



^ c. peas. 



6 or 9 olives cut into small pieces. 
Red pepper and salt to taste. 
Mayonnaise dressing. 
Decorate with shredded celery. 

Fannie Louis, Grundy Center, Iowa 



SALAD 

1 can string beans. 1 can sifted peas. 

1 can mushrooms. 1 bottle small onions. 

Cut onions, beans and mushrooms in small pieces and drain. Mix with 
boiled salad dressing thinned with whipped cream. Toss lightly with wooden 
fork and set on ice at least a half hour to allow seasoning. When ready to serve 
add a dash of red pepper and garnish with pimento. 

Mrs. Roy M. Clark, Forest City, Iowa 



SALAD DRESSING 

A good salad dressing. Take three egg yolks, beat lightly, add one table- 
spoon sweet cream, one tablespoon soft butter (not melted to an oil), one table- 
spoon lemon juice, one salt spoon of celery salt, one-eighth salt spoon pepper, 
one teaspoon made mustard. Stir all the time you are adding the ingredients, 
beat well after each addition. Set the bowl containing the dressing in a sauce 
pan of hot water until the dressing thickens. Set on ice to cool thoroughly be- 
fore using. This will keep several days if kept in a cool place or in the ice box. 
Mrs. C. R. Carr, 707 N. Main St., Bloomington, III. 



SALMON SALAD 

1 can red salmon. 5 sweet pickles. 

Whites of 5 hard boiled eggs, chopped. 
Mash the yolks, add a few grains of salt and oil from salmon, mix all lightly 
with a fork, place on platter, pour salad dressing over and garnish with lettuce 
leaves or beet pickles in the shape of stars. 

Mrs. S. Wold, R. No. 9, Red Wing, Minn. 



SALMON SALAD 

1 can salmon. Salt. 

1 lemon. Paprika. 

2 hard boiled eggs. Lettuce. 

Drain the liquor from a can of salmon and beat with it the juice of half a 
lemon. Mince the salmon fine and mix with it the lemon dressing, and one hard 
boiled egg chopped fine. Add salt and paprika to taste. Serve on crisp lettuce 
leaves with slices of lemon and hard boiled egg. All the ingredients should be 
kept cold until served. 

Mrs. Hiram Gillespie, Westminster, Col. 



SALAD HARD TO BEAT 

Take the outer ring of a slice of Bermuda onion, tomato and green sweet 
pepper. Fill in the center of each with Neufchatel cheese. Sprinkle with nuts 
and pour a good Mayonnaise dressing over each slice served on small lettuce 
leaves. This makes a beautiful dish. Olive pimento cheese may be used if 
preferred. Chill well before serving. 

Mrs. T. B. McCarriar, 434 E. Worth Ave., Baltimore, Md. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 55 

SALSPIGON (Spanish Salad) 

Enough ripe tomatoes to make a quart, peeled and cut into eighths. 
23^ c. boiled juicy beef, shredded coarsely. 

4 medium onions, sliced thin. 
2 green peppers, sliced thin. 

All ingredients must be cold. Beef boiled for making stock may be used, 
it should be tender and juicy. Cut with the grain into eatable pieces. Separate 
the onion slices by picking apart. Discard the green pepper seeds and pulp 
before slicing them. Arrange on platter as follows: First a row of tomatoes, 
then cut beef, the sliced onions, lastly the peppers. Put into refrigerator to 
get thoroughly cold. 

Before serving, dust over with salt, pour over French dressing and toss all 
together. Place on table as first arranged. It is a very attractive looking dish 
fit for an epicure. 

This quantity will serve six persons. 

Mrs. R. J. Malone, 1341 Clifton St., Washington, D. C. 

SHRIMP SALAD 

1 can shrimp. Juice of lemon dressing. 

1 c. chopped celery or cucumber. 

Cut shrimp into small pieces, sprinkle with lemon juice, let stand until 
chilled, mix with the cucumber or celery and add dressing. Place in ice box on 
lettuce until time to serve. 

Mrs. J. Stockton Penick, 2617 E. Franklin, Richmond, Va. 

SIMPLE SALAD 

1 lb. lima beans. 2 tsp. salt. 

1 can shrimp. J^ tsp. pepper. 

5 hard boiled eggs. 10 large lettuce leaves. 

1 onion. 2 c. Mayonnaise dressing. 

Wash lettuce leaves and keep on ice until wanted. Boil lima beans, season 
and let stand till cold; then add eggs sliced and onion chopped fine. Add shrimps 
either broken or whole, salt, pepper and Mayonnaise, mixing thoroughly. Put 
on ice until ready to serve. When ready to serve, cut five lettuce leaves up fine 
and mix into salad. Garnish the dish with lettuce leaves, place salad in center 
and serve. 

SPANISH SALAD 

1 small can beans in tomato sauce. 1 tsp. onion. 

2 good sized cold potatoes. Salt. 

2 hard boiled eggs. Pepper. 

Salad dressing. 

Put the beans into a bowl and add the potato and one egg, both cut to the 
same size as beans. Add the teaspoonful of finely chopped onion, salt and 
pepper to taste, and enough salad dressing to well moisten the whole. Place in 
a suitable dish, on leaves of lettuce and decorate the top with the remaining egg 
cut in neat slices. This quantity (a ten-cent can of beans) will make enough 
for four or five persons. Make a few hours before it is needed and place in 
refrigerator. Miss E. Green, St. Vincent, Minn. 

STUFFED APPLE SALAD 

Core, but do not peel, six ripe apples. Scoop them out a little; fill them 
with cold cooked chicken, minced fine, and mixed with finely minced green pepper, 
a little salt and just enough cream to moisten chicken. Now put apples in a 
steamer and cook them until tender, but not soft. When cool, put them on ice 
until very cold. Then serve each one on a bed of lettuce and pile plenty of Mayon- 
naise dressing around and on top of each. 

Alice Canfield, Webster St., Red Wing, Minn. 

STUFFED TOMATO SALAD 

Take medium sized ripe tomatoes, scald, skin and scoop out inside. Set 
in refrigerator to chill thoroughly. 

Fill with a mixture of celery, sweet pickles, cream cheese, hard boiled eggs 
and cucumbers, chopped fine and mixed with Mayonnaise dressing. When ready 
to serve, mix dressing with whipped cream and put tablespoonful on top of each^ 
Serve on lettuce leaf with pretty nasturtium laid on plate. 

Set in refrigerator until wanted. 

Mrs. Geo. H. Cassidy, 321 Park Ave. N. W., Canton, Ohio. 



56 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

SURPRISE SALAD 

Put into a pan of cold water and wash well, one large crisp head of lettuce, 
one fresh bunch of water cress, one green onion. Cut all very fine. Cut the 
lettuce leaves and the water cress very fine, add one pint of olives chopped fine, 
one cupful of chopped celery. Skin two large ripe tomatoes, cut in squares. 
Chop fine the yolk of a hard boiled egg. Shake a teaspoonful of salt over all. 
Mix all thoroughly. Set on ice to chill. Make a sauce of one teaspoonful of 
mustard, one-half teaspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls sugar, three tablespoonfuls 
vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one well beaten egg. Beat the white of 
the egg to a stiff froth, then add the yolk and beat a minute longer. Cook in 
a double boiler, stirring until like cream. Set aside to cool. When cold, add 
three tablespoonfuls of cream and pour all over the salad. Garnish with hard 
boiled eggs. This salad is very appetizing and delicious. 

INGREDIENTS 

1 head lettuce. 3 fresh eggs. 

1 bunch water cress. 13^ tsp. salt. 
1 green onion. 1 tsp. mustard. 

1 pt. olives. 2 tsp. sugar. 

1 bunch celery. 3 tbsp. vinegar 

2 large tomatoes 1 large piece butter. 

3 tbsp. cream. 
Anna M. Branagan, 2043 Twelfth St. Blvd., Chicago, III. 

SURPRISE SALAD 

Peel medium-sized tomatoes and empty their contents; now take some 
cabbage and celery and hash very fine; add a few broken walnut meats and 
mix it with mayonnaise dressing; add a pinch of salt and a pinch of red pepper. 
Fill the tomato with this mixture, set it on ice to chill and serve one tomato 
to a guest. Mrs. Andrew Walker, 144 S. Third St., Ironton, Ohio. 

SUNDAY NIGHT SALAD 

Chop half a Bermuda onion very fine and add twice as much chopped 
parsley. Chop iour small red peppers and eight green peppers. Mix one-half 
cupful of oil, five tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one teaspoonful mustard, half a 
teaspoonful of sugar, and one teaspoonful of salt into a dressing and mix well 
with the onion and peppers. Put in a covered glass jar, place in refrigerator and 
let stand until ready for use. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

Mrs. S. a. Blacklum, Versailles, Ky. 

SUPPER SALAD 

1 2-lb. can brown beans. 2 mango peppers. 
2 medium sized onions. 

Open the beans, draining off the liquor, empty in a bowl and pour over them 
three tablespoons of vinegar, cut the peppers up fine or in rings and drop in 
salted water for a few moments, then add them to the beans. Place this in 
lettuce cups, then over the top sprinkle the onions cut very fine, putting four or 
five teaspoons of mayonnaise over this, then take any good soft cheese and roll 
into little balls, rolling them in paprika until a bright red. Place one in the 
center of each plate. 

Mrs. M. G. Gillmore, 3009 Brooklyn Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 

SWEET SALAD DRESSING FOR A FRUIT SALAD 

2 eggs beaten separately. 34 c. lemon juice. 

3^ c. sugar. 3^ c. any kind of fruit juice boiled 

down to a syrup. 
Place in a double boiler, except the whites and cook, and stir until thick. 
Fold in the stiffly beaten whites. 

Mrs. a. D. Burrows, 611 Brooklyn Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 

THOUSAND ISLAND SALAD DRESSING 

Take one cupful Mayonnaise dressing, mix with one-half cupful whipped 
cream, add small amount of vinegar (preferably tarragon), one-half teaspoonful 
imperial sauce. Chop one hard boiled egg, one green pepper, one pimento, one 
pinch chives. Mix well and squeeze in juice of one lemon before serving. Place 
in glass jar, tightly closed, and set next to ice to cool. This may be served over 
any kind of salad. 

Mrs. M. E. Brown, 205 W. Lawrence Ave., Springfield, III. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 57 

TOMATO AND CRAB SALAD 

Pour boiling water over medium size tomatoes (to remove skins). Place 
in refrigerator until firm. Then cut off stem end, remove core and seeds. Fill 
with crab flakes. Sprinkle with a few drops of lemon juice, place on crisp lettuce 
leaves, set on ice. Just before serving, cover with Mayonnaise dressing. 

Mrs. Claude M. Carhart, 553 Warren St., Hudson, N. Y. 

TOMATO AND EGG SALAD 

Slice ripe tomatoes and arrange on a bed of lettuce leaves. Allow one hard 
boiled egg to each tomato, mash the yolks and season with salt, pepper, a little 
onion juice or paprika. Sprinkle this lightly over each slice of tomato, and 
over this sprinkle^ the whites of the eggs, cut in small bits, and well seasoned. 
Serve very cold with a mayonnaise dressing. 

Vernetta Smith, 413 Norwood Ave., Dayton, Ohio. 

TOMATO ASPIC 

One pint of tomatoes cooked with one large onion, one small green pepper 
cut up fine, two teaspoonfuls salt, pepper and sugar. Add three-fourths of a 
box of gelatine which has soaked in one cupful water and the juice of one-half 
lemon. Strain into cups, set on ice to mold. Serve on lettuce leaves, with 
salad dressing. 

TOMATO SALAD 

Cut the tops from ripe tomatoes and hollow out with a spoon. Mix equal 
parts of tomato pulp, and pineapple together with salad dressing. Refill tomato 
cups and put a few nuts on top. Serve very cold on lettuce leaves with cheese 
straws. 

Ethel L. Phels, Lost Nation, Iowa. 

TOMATO JELLY SALAD 

}/2 box gelatine soaked and dissolved in 1 c. of tomato juice. 
Boil the remainder of a 3 lb. can of tomato with 
2 slices of onion. 3^ tsp. pepper. 

6 whole cloves. 1 tsp. thyme. 

2 bay leaves. 2 tsp. salt. 

2 tsp. sugar. 
When tomatoes are soft remove from fire and strain through cheese cloth, 
add gelatine, and a little red fruit coloring. When gelatine is thoroughly dis- 
solved strain into molds and set on ice to harden. Serve on lettuce leaves with 
mayonnaise, or in cubes with chicken salad. 

Anne R. Cloyd, 337 N. Church St., Decatur, III. 

TUNA FISH SALAD 

1 can tuna fish flaked. 1 c. chopped celery. 

1 c. sweet pickles cut fine. 
Mix and chill in refrigerator. Serve on lettuce leaf with Mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Edna Starofsky, 1402 Thirteenth St., Moline, III. 

TUNA SALAD 

Take one can of tuna and break apart with fork, but do not chop. Add a 
liberal amount of coarsely chopped celery, one-fourth cupful chopped nuts, two 
tablespoonfuls pimentoes cut fine. Make this several hours before serving and 
put in refrigerator. When ready to serve, put on crisp lettuce leaves and 
cover liberally with a tart salad dressing. 

Mrs. M. J. Friedman, 704 N. Fifth St., Springfield, III. 



58 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

TULIP SALAD 

Select medium size, well rounded tomatoes that have been on ice, wash 
and polish, scoop out the core and as much as can be safely scraped from shell 
without breaking it. Drain dry and sprinkle with a little salt, sugar, pepper 
and paprika and a little minced onion, also finely chopped parsley. 

Cut a small cucumber in dice and let lay in salted water before mi.xing, 
Chop a few stalks of celery fine (if in season), also chop a small green sweet pepper. 
Chop some red radishes and a few olives and add to the mixture. 

Boil two eggs twenty minutes, throw in cold water, keep on the ice until 
needed, then cut these up in small pieces. If you should happen to have a cold 
potato, cut this up. 

Mix all this with enough Mayonnaise dressing to hold mixture together 
and serve on crisp lettuce with a big dash of dressing on top to represent the 
tulip and a strip of green pepper on lettuce for the stems. 

Mix just before serving and everything must be on the ice before mixing, 
as their charm lies in the crispness and icy coldness. 

This is not as an expensive a salad as it sounds, as every good cook has most 
of these things ready in the house. 

Most attractive for a luncheon. 

Celia R. Dinsmore, R. D. No. 1, Edgemoor, Del. 

TURKISH SALAD 

Shred one seeded green pepper and one sweet red pepper very fine and add 
one cupful shredded cabbage and also one cupful shredded celery, two apples 
cut in small pieces, and one-half pound of white grapes cut in two, also a few 
English walnut meats. Mix thoroughly and leave in a cold place for three 
hours. Just before serving, drain off all the liquid and then dress with nonpareil 
salad dressing. 

NONPAREIL SALAD DRESSING 

1 c. vinegar. }/2 tsp. salt. 

Yolks of 5 or 6 eggs. Yz c. sugar. 

1 tbsp. butter. ^i tsp. mustard. 

Dash of cayenne pepper. 
Heat vinegar and butter to boiling point and pour over the yolks beaten 
until lemon color. Add sugar, salt and mustard well mixed together and stir 
well. Put back on stove in double boiler stirring constantly until of the con- 
sistency of cream. Take off, chill and when ready to serve add whipped cream 
to taste. 

Mrs. G. C. Duncan, 5004 Grand Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 

VARIEGATED SALAD 

1 can stringless beans, drain well. 2 pimento peppers, diced. 

1 medium white onion, diced small. 1 pkg. granulated gelatine. 

Soak the gelatine in one-half cupful cold water and dissolve in one and three- 
fourths quarts of boiling water to which has been added the juice of one-half 
lemon, teaspoonful salt, one-fourth teaspoon white pepper, one-half teaspoon 
celery salt, one-half teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce, two teaspoonfuls vinegar 
and two teaspoonfuls sugar. Pour over the vegetables and mold in one pan or 
in individual molds. Serve in shredded lettuce. Garnish with two radish 
roses, three or four slices of cucumber, laid to overlap and a spoonful of salad 
dressing. Mayonnaise. 

This is easily prepared and is greatly improved by the addition of one tea- 
spoonful of liquor of walnut pickles. 

Frances Kirby, Heron Lake, Minn. 

VEAL SALAD 

Stew three-pound piece of lean veal until the meat falls from the bone. 
1 can pimentoes. 12 large stoned olives. 

12 small sweet pickles. 1 tsp. celery salt. 

Grind all together through a meat chopper, mix with Mayonnaise dressing. 
Chill in refrigerator. Serve cold on lettuce leaves. 

Mrs. T. W. Maker, 2125 Sixteenth St., Moline, III. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 59 



VEGETABLE SALAD 

2 carrots. 3 large dill pickles. 

2 onions. 1 green pepper. 

1 red pepper. 
Take the seeds out of the peppers. Put all the vegetables through a food 
chopper, tie up in cheesecloth and drain. Add four hard boiled eggs cut fine. 
Mix lightly with Mayonnaise dressing. 

Mrs. Harry Fields, 703 Stirling Ave., Joliet, III. 

VEGETABLE SALAD 

Six ounces of cold boiled potatoes cut into meat dice, one gill of peas, one of 
button mushrooms (both cooked), one gill of celery, cut into half-inch lengths. 
Mix the vegetables together with an herb mayonnaise fashion into a pyramid 
on a pretty dish, and garnish with crisp lettuce leaves and small radishes, pour 
over more mavonnaise. 

Mrs. C. Jensen, 50 Wardell St., Astoria, L. I. 

VIRGINIA SALAD 

1 lb. American cheese. 1 c. pecans. 

8 hard boiled eggs. 1 small bottle stuffed olives. 

Put above through the meat chopper. Season with salt, red pepper and 
Worcestershire sauce. Make into a paste with salad dressing. It will keep in- 
definitely if put in a glass jar and kept in refrigerator. This can be used as a 
sandwich filling or made into balls and served on lettuce leaves with Mayonnaise. 
Mrs. Marcus Bell, 722 S. Sycamore St., Petersburg, Va. 

WALDORF SALAD 

1 c. finely cut celery. 1 c. broken English walnuts. 

1 c. apples cut in cubes. 
Mix well and add one teaspoonful salt, two tablespoonfuls orange juice and 
grated rind of one orange. Then add cupful Mayonnaise dressing. Set in 
refrigerator until very cold and serve on small nests of crisp lettuce. Garnish with 
unbroken English walnuts. 

Mrs. H. J. Linkenheimer, Plummer Ave., Emsworth, Pa. 

WALNUT SALAD 

Blanch one-half pound of shelled walnuts, cut them in small pieces, have 

ready the white meat of cold chicken and celery cut fine. Add to each cupful 

of nuts one cupful of chicken and two of celery, mix well with Mayonnaise or 

boiled dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves with small piece of lemon on each plate. 

Irene Knight, 1121 N. College St., Decatur, III. 

WHITE SALAD 

Serves twelve to fourteen. 

Shave one quart of cabbage and let stand in cold water one hour, then press 
dry. 

To this amount, add one small can of pineapple, cut in dices, one cup almonds 
cut in four pieces, two cupfuls marshmallows, cut in four pieces. Mix with white 
salad dressing, putting in the marshmallows last. One pint of whipped cream 
is added to this amount. 

WHITE SALAD 

One large can of pineapple, one and one-half pounds of Malaga grapes, one 
pound of marshmallows 

Cut grapes in two, and remove seeds, cut pineapple in small pieces and cut 
marshmallows in four pieces with scissors. Break with fingers fifteen cents 
worth of pecan or walnut meats. Pour all juice from pineapple and grapes. Put 
all together in large bowl and pour over the following dressing: Yolks of four 
eggs beaten light, one-fourth teaspoonful dry mustard, one-half cup of sweet 
milk heated to boiling point, pour slowly over beaten eggs, put on stove and cook 
until thick like custard, stirring all the time. Then add the juice of one lemon. 
Whip one pint of cream, add lightly to egg dressing, pour all over the ingredients, 
mixing well with a fork. 

Set in cold refrigerator. 

This salad must be made the day before using. This amount will serve 
twenty-four people. Can be made without grapes. 

Mrs. B, T. Spradling, Box 255, Grand Island, Neb. 



60 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



WHITE GRAPE SALAD 

Two bunches white grapes with seeds taken out and chopped, two apples, 
two eggs, hard boiled. Mix with mayonnaise dressing and serve on lettuce leaves. 
Mrs. M. B. Magenery, 2122 A. W. Prospect Place, Kansas City, Mo. 



WHITE SALAD DRESSING 

Whites of 4 eggs beaten very light. 1 tbsp. flour. 

J^ c. sugar. Juice 3 lemons. 

4 tbsp. white vinegar. 
Mix flour and sugar, add the lemon juice, vinegar and the beaten whites. 
Cook in double boiler, stirring all the time until thickened. This will keep for 
several days in refrigerator. Serve cold, very delicious. 



WORTH WHILE SALAD 

Soak one-half box gelatine in one-half cupful cold water, add two and one- 
half cupfuls boiling water, three teaspoonfuls beef extract, one teaspoonful 
onion juice and one-eighth teaspoonful salt. Place in refrigerator until half cold, 
then add: One cupful minced chicken, one dozen chopped olives, one-half cupful 
canned tomatoes pressed through a colander. Pour into molds and place in 
refrigerator until cold. Serve on lettuce leaf with Mayonnaise dressing. 
IsTALiNA D. Flagg, 733 Marshall Ave. S. W., Roanoke, Va. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 61 
* . .-.o . . «..--.. * 

Canbies! anb icings! j 

i 



EATEN at proper times, candy is a useful article of food. It should not be 
eaten to excess nor before meals. If too much is eaten at a time, it is 
likely to ferment in the stomach. Three or four ounces a day may be 
considered the right amount for an adult. 

In cooking sugar for candy, use an agate or an iron pan, as it is less liable 
to burn than in tin. 

Butter pans for candy before it is cooked. 
Have ready some cold water in which to test the candy. 
When the candy is poured into the pan, do not scrape the saucepan over 
it, nor allow any of the scrapings to fall into it. 

Scraping or stirring the candy while cooling, after it has been poured into 
the pan, will cause it to become sugary. 

Acid substances like lemon juice or cream of tartar added to the candy 
while cooking, will keep it clear. Temperatures: 

232 to 242 deg. F. — Soft ball. 345 deg. — Caramelization point. 

248 deg. F.— Hard ball. 

COCOANUT CHOCOLATE SQUARES 

Cover one-half cupful shredded cocoanut with milk, only as much as cocoa- 
nut will absorb, and let stand over night in refrigerator. In the morning, mix 
in one-half teaspoonful vanilla and enough confectioner's sugar to make a stiff 
mixture. Will take about a pound of sugar and perhaps more if more milk is 
used than is needed. Spread in a thin sheet, about three-eighths of an inch 
thick on wax paper. Put in refrigerator to harden. When firni, remove and 
cover top with dot chocolate. Melt chocolate by setting dish in dish of hot 
water. Stir frequently while melting. When cooled to about eighty degrees F., 
spread chocolate with a knife. Put back in refrigerator to harden. Remove when 
firm, turn over and coat other side. Put back in refrigerator and when choco- 
late coat is firm, cut candy into squares with sharp knife. 

Mrs. C. Everett Whitney, Andover, N. H. 

DELICIOUS FUDGE 

2 c. white sugar. 2 oz. chocolate. 

% c. thin cream. H tsp. vanilla. 

1 c. chopped walnut meats. 
Cook sugar, cream and chocolate till mixture forms a soft ball when a little 
is tried in cold water. Remove from the stove and allow to stand fifteen minutes 
(this is the secret of good fudge), then add one-half teaspoonful vanilla andone 
cupful chopped walnut meats. Beat till like thick cream, pour into tin lined 
with waxed paper. Before it is cool, mark off into squares. Set in refrigerator 
over night as it is better the second day. Kneading will give a waxy consistency. 
Mrs. a. H. Smith, L. Box 45, New London, N. H. 

DIVINITY CANDY 
Grand and Easy to Make 

FIRST SAUCE PAN 

1 pt. granulated sugar. 14. pt- white Karo syrup. 

A little water. 

Boil all this till it gets real hard when tested in cold water. 
SECOND SAUCE PAN 

One and two-thirds cups granulated sugar and a little water. Cook slowly 
till a little tested in cold water becomes fairly hard. 

Now beat the whites of three eggs very stiff in a very large platter and then 
pour this second sauce pan mixture over the whites of eggs and beat all the 
time while pouring. Now add this to the first sauce pan mixture and beat 
very hard and when it gets pretty stiff, add a pound of English walnuts which 
have been cut in pieces and some vanilla and beat again, then turn in a mould 
till cold. Then slice. . Mrs. J. Diehm, 241 S. 10th St., Kansas City, Kan. 



62 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

FAMOUS FRUIT LOAF 
FIRST PART 

3 c. granulated sugar. 1 c. sweet milk. 

3 large tbsp. butter. 

Place sugar and milk on slow fire. Let sugar dissolve, then boil several 
minutes before dropping in butter. Continue boiling till it will form a soft ball 
when a little is tried in very cold water. 

Remove from stove, pour into deep platter. When perfectly cool, stir with 
silver knife till it crumbles, then knead with hands till smooth and creamy. 

FAMOUS FRUIT LOAF 
SECOND PART 

3 c. brown sugar. 2 c. whole nut kernels. 
% c. sweet milk. 1 c. figs. 

2 tbsp. butter. 1 c. seeded dates. 

Yi c. candied cherries. 
Cook and mix exactly same as first part. When ready to knead, work till 
smooth and blend with the white lightly, always keeping the colors in prominence. 
Mix in nut kernels, figs, dates and cherries. 

Roll out in thick roll and slice in rather thin slices with sharp knife. 

Mrs. H. T. Simpson, Bisbee, Arizona 

FONDANT 

2 c. sugar. 1 c. water. 

Y% tsp. cream of tartar. 
Boil until it forms a soft ball when a little is tried in cold water, remove 
from fire and place in refrigerator to cool, then beat until creamy, add one tea- 
spoonful vanilla. 

Make several days before using and keep in refrigerator. Use for stuffing 
dates, filling for chocolate creams or nut slices. 

Mrs. Chas. H. Gage, Jr., Care of O. G. Greely, 

5451 WooDLAWN Ave., Chicago, III. 

FIG BARS 

4 tbsp. granulated gelatine. 3 tbsp. sherry wine. 

1 c. cold water. 3^ c. chopped walnut meats. 

2 c. sugar. 1 orange. 

Yi c. dried figs, chopped. \i c. chopped almonds, blanched. 

1 lemon. 
Soak the gelatine in one cupful cold water. Put figs through meat chopper 
and stew them in the juice of the lemon and the juice and grated rind of the 
orange. Heat sugar with one cupful water, add gelatine and let stand ten 
minutes on back of range, then add to fig mixture and boil ten minutes, stirring 
constantly. Remove from fire, and add nuts and lastly the wine. Pour into 
pan that has been wet in cold water and set in refrigerator for several hours 
to chill. Loosen edges with knife, immerse bottom of pan for an instant in hot 
water, slip fingers under candy and remove from pan. Cut in strips about 
two and one-half inches long by one inch wide. Roll in powdered sugar. 
Mrs. C. W. Howe, 2917 Twenty-ninth St., Coronado, Cal. 

FRESH FRUIT CANDY 

Melt a quantity of fondant and mix with it a quantity of coarsely mashed 
strawberries, chopped fresh pineapple, mashed peaches or orange pulp, to give 
the desired fruit flavor. Add a little coloring if desired, red for strawberries, 
yellow for the other fruits, form in any desired shapes. Place in refrigerator for 
ten minutes. 

Then dip in melted chocolate and when j^ou have a tray filled, place at once 
in refrigerator. 

These bon-bons are new and delicious and may be made in quantities and 
kept a long time in refrigerator, as fresh and delightful as when first made. 

Mrs. L. R. Fink, New Ulm, Texas. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 63 

HOMEMADE POPCORN BARS 

2 c. sugar. 1 tbsp. vinegar. 

2 c. molasses. Butter, size of walnut. 

Have ready a pan of freshly popped corn. Boil the above ingredients 
together until a firm ball may be formed when dropped into cold water. Turn 
the candy over the popcorn and toss it quickly into the mass, handling as gently 
as possible to keep it light. Place on buttered platters, cut into bars and let 
stand in cold place until crisp. Anna V. Smith, Gower, Mo. 

MAPLE DELIGHT CREAMS 

IJ^ c. brown sugar (medium). 3 tbsp. maple syrup. 

Yl c. milk. 3 tbsp. melted butter. 

Bring to a boil and continue boiling to 230 degrees F. Will have to be 
watched carefully to avoid scorching toward the last. Pour on a slab and 
knead the candy for five minutes. Add one teaspoonful vanilla (if preferred) 
and one-half cupful nut meats. Pat out and cut in squares after mixing these 
in well by kneading. 

Mrs. N. W. Duerson, Cor. Clay and Howard, Mt. Sterling, Ky. 

MEXICAN NUT CARAMELS 

Put one cupful of granulated sugar in an iron skillet. Stir over slow fire 
till melted, taking care not to brown. When syrupy, add one cupful of cream or 
milk and stir until all is dissolved. Add one cupful granulated and one cupful 
of light brown sugar and boil until it forms a soft ball in cold water. Take from 
fire and add one cupful chopped nuts. Stir until creamy. Pour into a shallow 
dish and work into squares. 

Mrs. J. H. O'Donnell, R. No. 6, Box 179, Independence, Mo. 

NUT AND FRUIT BON BONS 

1 lb mixed nuts. 1 c. seeded raisins. 

Y2 c- shredded cocoanut. 6 figs. 

1 large piece orange peel. 
Put all through food chopper. Form into balls, dip in melted chocolate and 
powdered sugar. Put on oil paper. Put on ice in refrigerator to harden. 
Mrs. a. Meyers, 1521 S. Eighth St., Springfield, III. 

PECAN PRALINES 

1 lb. brown sugar. 4 tbsp. water. 

Y2 lb. pecans. 2 tbsp. butter. 

As sugar and water begin to boil, add pecans. Let boil until mixture 
begins to bubble, stirring constantly. Cook until you can draw it like a thread 
between thumb and finger. Have ready a large slab, clean and well greased, 
and drop the mixture like pan cakes, spreading out till about one-third inch thick 
and five inches in diameter. 

Mrs. Thomas S. Shaw, 2118 Milan St., New Orleans, La. 

TURKISH DELIGHT 

1 box gelatine. 2 c. granulated sugar. 

1 lemon. % c. cold water. 

3^ c. cold water. 1 large juicy orange. 

Soak gelatine in two-thirds cupful water for five minutes. Put sugar in 
two-thirds cupful cold water, when boiling add the soaked gelatine. Boil 
steadily for twenty minutes. 

Add grated rind and juice of orange and lemon juice (about one-half cupful 
fruit juice). 

When cooled, wet a pan with cold water and pour in the mixture to one inch 
in depth. Put in refrigerator, when firm cut in cubes and roll in powdered sugar 
to which one teaspoonful corn starch has been added. 

Mrs. Moses Morris, 403 N. Ewing St., Helena, Mont. 

TUTTI FRUTTI FROSTING 

Yolks of 3 eggs beaten thick. Confectioner's sugar. 

Yi. c. citron cut fine or chopped raisins or both. Vanilla. 

Beat yolks until thicken and lemon colored. Add citron and enough con- 
fectioner's sugar to make it of right consistency to eight pounds. 
Put frosting on cake in pan while hot. 

Anna Conradt, Ft. Madison, Iowa. 



64 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



t i 



Canning | 

i I 



CANNED FRUIT JUICES 

Select clean, ripe fruit. Press out the juice and strain it through a flanne 
cloth. To each pint of juice add one cupful of white granulated sugar. Put 
it in a porcelain kettle, bring it to the boiling point and bottle while hot, in small 
bottles. It must be sealed very tight while it is hot. Will keep a long time, the 
same as canned fruit. I do these up in the summer time when one can get the 
fruit nice and fresh. They are fine as a substitute for brandy or wine in all 
puddings, sauces and such things. 

Mrs. F. M. Koenig, 599 Ocean Ave., Jersey City, N. J. 

CANNED SWEET CORN 

9 c. tender corn cut from the ear. 1 c. sugar. 

Yl c. salt. 
Stir the sugar and salt into the corn and cook one-half to three-fourths of 
an hour. Do not put any water in it and cook very slowly, stirring often. Steri- 
lize can, put corn in and seal. When opening to use, pour cold water over corn 
and let stand over night. 

Miss Emma Johnson, R. No. 3, Box 35, Fremont, Neb. 

CANNED STRING BEANS 

Use tender beans, string and snap. Cook until tender, bacon or salt pork, 
adding some water. See that water has cooked out by the time beans are done, 
leaving just the grease in bottom of kettle. Sterilize jars, put in beans and seal. 
Turn jar on end. The grease will settle to top of jar and remain there when 
beans are cold. 

Miss Emma Johnson, R. No. 3, Box 35, Fremont, Neb. 

CHERRY PRESERVE 

Wash and drain fruit, remove stems and seeds. Weigh, and to every 
pound of cherries add two of sugar. Put over slow fire and when sugar is dis- 
solved increase the fire, when at boiling point cook 8 minutes. Remove from 
stove and fill jars and seal. 

Emma Linn, 5435 Woodland Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 

CONSERVE 

2 qts. fresh gooseberries. 
1 pt. canned strawberries. 

1 lb. raisins. 

2 lemons (remove inner skin, chop up rind and all). 

2 c. sugar. 

1 tsp. cinnamon. 
J^ tsp. cloves. 
Put all together and cook slowly one hour. Fill glasses, adjust covers. 

Jane Machen, Savanna, III. 

GRAPE CONSERVE 

3 qts. Concord grapes, after skins have been removed. 
3 lbs. sugar. 

1 lb. seeded raisins, cut fine. 

1 lb. English walnut meats, chopped. 

Cook the grapes until the seeds separate, strain. To skins and strained 
pulp, add sugar and seeded raisins. During the last hour of cooking, add the 
walnut meats. Cook one and one-half hours and turn into jelly glasses. 

Mrs. J. B. Retallack, Northfork, W. Va. 



1^% 

li 



y.^»8»' 




Bohn SaJiitor Kitchen Table 

See next page for description 



Just a Few Reasons 

TVhy You Should 
Own a Sanitor 
Kitchen Table 

1. BECAUSE it is sanitary in all that the name implies. 

2. BECAUSE it is an ornament to a housewife's kit- 
chen and not, as is so often the case, an eye-sore. 

3. BECAUSE it is easy to keep clean. Just wipe it off 
with a damp cloth same as you would a china dish. 
Impossible to burn with hot dishes. 

4. BECAUSE, while the first cost is a little more than 
an ordinary kitchen table, it is the most economical 
in the end. Lasts a lifetime. No oilcloth covering 
to wear out and replace every few weeks. 



The snow-white porcelain top of the Bohn Sanitor 
table is impervious to heat and knife-cuts, and cleans as 
easily as a china dish. 

Sanitor Tables are furnished in either "All White" 
enamel or natural birch with porcelain tops. 

Made in three sizes, also collapsible for use in kitch- 
enettes and apartments. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 65 



JELLY RECIPE FOR CRANBERRIES 

This is a recipe for jelly that is hard enough to block. Wash thoroughly a 
quart of sound cranberries, rejecting any that show a soft spot and being careful 
to remove all stems. Put them in a porcelain or granite saucepan with one and 
one-half cupfuls of hot water and one and one-fourth cupfuls of granulated sugar. 
Cook them in a double boiler, rather than over the direct heat. Then rub them 
through a sieve and pour into a flat pan to mold. 

RASPBERRY AND CURRANT JELLY 

2 parts red raspberries. 1 part red currants. 

Put the fruit in stone jar or saucepan, set in another of water. Cover and 
let boil until the fruit is very soft. . . 

Strain through cloth bag without squeezing, and to every pint of juice, 
allow a pound of granulated sugar. 

Boil twenty minutes or until it begins to jelly, pour into tumblers and set 
in the sun to harden, cover with tissue paper dipped in brandy, over all the tin 
cover, or tie another paper. 

Mrs. Leonard W. Dart, 16 Berkeley Ave., New London, Conn. 

RHUBARB AND PINEAPPLE CONSERVE 

Peel rhubarb and cut in one inch pieces to amount of one and one-half cupfuls. 

Cut pineapple in small pieces and run both through grinder. Add one and 
one-fourth cupfuls sugar, heat gradually to boiling point and let simmer thirty 
minutes. Add pulp of one orange and some grated rind, twenty raisins. Let 
simmer again until mixture is thick. Remove raisins and pour in jelly glasses. 

RHUBARB JAM 

Take six pounds of rhubarb, clean, wash well and cut in inch pieces. Put 
into the preserving kettle with four pounds of granulated sugar. Let it stand 
covered over night. Next morning, add three large juicy oranges cut very fine 
(seeds removed). Chop fine one pound of figs. Simmer for three hours, stir 
often. This is extra good. Can be set on ice in refrigerator a few hours before 
scrvins. 

Anna M. Branagan, 2043 Twelfth St., Blvd. Chicago, III. 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVES 

4 c. sugar ( g^jj ^^ gyryp, 4 c. fruit, boil 20 minutes. 

y2 c. water \ 
Do not make more than this amount at one time. 

Mrs. R. E. Huler, 4039 Flora, Kansas City, Mo. 

PICKLES 

Place pickles in jars. 1 c. salt. 

1 gal. cider vinegar. 1 c. mustard. 

1 c. sugar. Gherkins. 

Mix sugar, salt and mustard together, add vinegar, a little at a time, so it 
will be smooth. Pour over pickles. Do not heat. 

Mrs. F. H. Patterson, 608 Thirteenth Ave., Munhall, Pa. 

RAISIN AND CUCUMBER PICKLES 

Plump two pounds of layer raisins by pouring boiling water over them, 
letting them stand in this just five minutes, then draining and laying them out 
to dry on a cloth. The cucumbers must be prepared at least six hours before 
the pickle is made. I do this over night. Pare and cut into rounds in one-inch 
thickness and sprinkle with salt. Set in cool place. When you are ready to 
begin with the canning, drain all the brine away, which has accumulated about 
the cucumbers. Into an enamel or porcelain kettle, put two quarts of vinegar 
for every two pounds of cucumbers and the same of raisins. Stir into the vinegar 
two cupfuls of brown sugar (full cups), two tablespoonfuls of celery seed, one 
teaspoonful of whole pepper corns, six blades of mace, and half a dozen sticks of 
cinnamon one inch long. Boil vinegar and spices together fifteen minutes, and 
drop In the drained cucumbers and raisins alternately. When all are in, simmer 
gently for ten minutes. Put up hot in pint jars and seal. It will be ready for 
use In two weeks and will keep well. 

Mrs. a. Townsend, 127 N. White Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 



66 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

SWEET CUCUMBER MANGOES 

Use medium sized cucumbers and soak in a brine strong enough to hold up 
an egg for nine days. Then soak twenty-four hours in fresh water. Take out. 
Split lengthwise. Remove seeds. Then place in a preserving kettle with 
alternate layers of grape leaves, sprinkling over each layer one level teaspoonful 
of powdered alum. Pour over this equal parts of vinegar and water to cover 
well. Then scald until firm and green. If possible, do not boil. When cool 
enough to handle, stuff with the following: 

Thin slices of lemon cut in quarters. Fill with pieces of lemon and raisins. 
Tie or sew together and pack in jars. Pour over syrup made with one pound of 
sugar to one pint of vinegar, one ounce of cinnamon bark and one-half ounce of 
cloves. Reheat this syrup and pour for nine days, add more syrup if necessary, 
to keep covered. If spice is liked, place pieces of cinnamon bark and a couple 
of cloves inside with other filling. They can be left in brine longer if necessary, 
without injury. 

Mrs. Chas. Horn, 75 S. 6th St., Ironton, Ohio. 



TOMATO CATSUP 

Scald one peck of tomatoes and press through a sieve, let stand over night. 
To five pints of juice, add two pounds of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of black 
pepper, one tablespoonful of salt, two pods cayenne pepper, one quart good 
vinegar. Cook to a thick syrup. When cool, add two tablespoonfuls 
cloves, two tablespoonfuls cinnamon and two tablespoonfuls ground mustard. 
Bottle. 

Mrs. H. B. Atkins, R. F. D. No. 1, Roanoke, Va. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES (>1 

I 
! 
i 

* - I I ■ I ^ ■■ I ^ I ^ r ^- ^- — 1 — 11 111 ^11 ^iiti 



l^elisifies! 



APPLE AND DATE RELISH 

Choose a firm, well flavored apple and to two cupfuls, chopped coarsely, 
add one cupful dates stoned and chopped. Add one tablespoonful sugar and 
juice of lemon. Set in refrigerator for about one hour before serving. 
Mrs. Georgia R. Roehr, 5610 Scarritt Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 



BEET RELISH 

1 qt. boiled beets, chopped fine. 1 c. grated horseradish. 

1 qt. raw cabbage, chopped fine. 1 c. sugar. 

1 tsp. black pepper. 
Combine ingredients. Cover with cold vinegar. Keep this relish away 
from air and light. 

Mrs. Sadie Wells, St. Edward, Neb. 



CABBAGE RELISH 

To one gallon of finely cut cabbage, add one dozen onions cut fine and one- 
half dozen red peppers cut fine. To all of this, add two cupfuls of coarse salt 
and let stand over night. Then squeeze and rinse through one water. 

Add 

1 c. white mustard seed. 3 tbsp. turmeric. 

2 c. sugar. 4 tbsp. mustard. 

2 tbsp. celery seed. 
Cover with good cider vinegar and boil twenty minutes to each gallon. 
Mrs. O. a. Grimes, 2846 Shenandoah Ave., St. Louis, Mo. 



CABBAGE AND DILL PICKLE RELISH 

Choose a small, firm head of cabbage. Chop fine. Add two medium sized 
dill pickles, also chopped very fine, and one medium sized onion chopped very 
fine. Blend all together and season with pepper and a very little salt. Moisten 
with a little cider vinegar and set in refrigerator for about one hour before 
serving. 

Mrs. Georgia R. Roehr, 5610 Scarritt Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 



CABBAGE AND PEPPER RELISH 

Shred one head of cabbage. Let stand in slightly salted ice water for one- 
half hour. Drain and add to shredded green and red peppers. Cover well 
with spiced vinegar and press with weight. Let stand for several hours in a cool 
place before serving. 

Miss Mary Schwallenberg, R. F. D. No. 3, Roanoke, Va. 



CHILI SAUCE 

4 qts. tomatoes chopped fine. J^ c. ground green peppers. 

8 c. pure cider vinegar. 4 tbsp. ground red peppers. 

^ c. light brown sugar. 4 tbsp. salt. 

3 c. chopped onions. 4 tbsp. ground cinnamon. 

4 tbsp. ground cloves. 
Boil till consistency desired. 

Mrs. W. V. Carpenter, 3937 Campbell St., Kansas City, Mo. 



68 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

CHOW CHOW 

1 qt. large cucumbers, peeled and cut lengthwise. 

1 qt. very small cucumbers. 

1 qt. small white onions. 

1 qt. green tomatoes, sliced. 

1 qt. green string beans. 

1 qt. celery, cut in small pieces. 

1 large or 2 small cauliflowers broken in small pieces. 

6 green peppers. 

6 red peppers. 

Put chow chow in weak salt water and let stand twenty-four hours. Then 
scald in same water and cook till tender, cooking beans separately. Put to 
drain while making paste. Cover with paste. 

PASTE 

Yl c. flour. 6 tbsp. mustard. 

IJ^ c. sugar. 1 tbsp. turmeric. 

1 tbsp. celery seed. 
Mix well and add two quarts cider vinegar. Cook over slow fire until 
flour is done, stirring continually. 

Mrs. Stephen G. Gould, 2206 E. 30th St., Kansas City, Mo. 

COLD PEPPER HASH 

1 small head of cabbage. Salt and pepper to suit taste. 

2 onions. Yi pt. cider vinegar. 

2 sweet peppers. 1 tbsp. sugar. 

1 tbsp. celery seed. 
Mix ingredients. 

Mrs. Luella Love, 909 Park Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 

COLD RELISH 

Grind or chop two pounds of cabbage, one stalk of celery, and one green 
sweet mango. Make dressing of one-half pint of sweet cream, one teaspoonful 
salt, two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice and one tablespoonful of sugar. Add 
salt to cream, whip until foamy. Then add lemon juice and whip until thick, 
or use mixer. Cover or mix dressing thoroughly with cabbage, celery and 
mango. This is easily prepared. Keep in refrigerator. 

Mrs. Petri, 1907 N. 12^^ St., Terre Haute, Ind. 

CORN RELISH 

18 ears of corn, cut fresh from the cob. 

1 large head of cabbage, chopped fine. 

3 large mangoes, chopped. 

2 qts. vinegar. 
Yl lb. sugar. 

Yi. c. salt. 

Yi lb. mustard seed. 
Mix and keep in sealed jars. 

CUCUMBER RELISH 

Yi small head cabbage. Yi c sugar. 

Yi dozen apples. 1 tsp. salt. 

1 stalk celery. Yi pt- Worcestershire sauce. 
Yi dozen sour cucumber pickles. Yi oz. ground mustard. 
Yi pt. taragon vinegar. Yi tsp. currypowder. 
Chop finely the cabbage, apples, celery and pickles. Add remaining in- 
gredients. This will keep indefinitely in refrigerator and is an excellent relish 
to serve with the meat course. 

DILL BOATS 

Peel small dill pickles, cut in halves lengthwise. Scoop out seeds, thus 
forming boats. Fill with minced cabbage, clams, water cress mixed with French 
dressing. 

Ethel Phelps, Lost Nation, Iowa. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 69 



CANAPEAU ENTREE 

Take a thin slice of bread (not too fresh) and cut round with a cake cutter. 
Spread with mashed sardines. On top of that lay a thin slice of raw tomatoof 
uniform size with bread. Garnish with stuffed olives, _ placing one whole olive 
upright in center of tomato and laying halves of olives in a circle around it. 

Place in a Bohn Syphon refrigerator, the perfect refrigerating system of 
which will keep the entree cold and at the same time prevent the bread from 
becoming soggy. Just before serving, cover with ice cold Mayonnaise dressing. 
The quantities used in this recipe may be determined by the number of persons 
to be served. Mrs. Walter M. Franklin, Jr., Rosemont, Pa. 

GREEN TOMATO CHOW CHOW 

)/2 bushel green tomatoes'! 
1 dozen onions V Chopped. 

1 dozen green peppers ; 
1 pt. salt. 
Vinegar. 

1 pt. horseradish. 

2 lbs. sugar (brown is best). 
\'2 c. ground mustard. 

2 tbsp. cinnamon. 
2 tbsp. allspice. 

2 tbsp. cloves. 

Chop tomatoes, onions and peppers. Add one pint of salt and let stand 
over night. In the morning drain off the brine. Cook slowly for one hour, in 
just enough vinegar to stew it. Pour off this vinegar. Take horseradish, sugar, 
mustard, cinnamon, allspice and cloves. Put these ingredients in enough vinegar 
to cover them and let come to a boil, pour on the tomatoes boiling hot. Pack 
in jars. They will be ready to use when cold. 

Mrs. C. a. Godbey, R. F. D. No. 2, Wathena, Kan. 

INDIAN RELISH 

1 pk. ripe tomatoes, chopped. 2 red peppers. 

1 c. salt. 1 green pepper. 

3 c. chopped celery. 2 c. white sugar. 

3 onions. 1 oz. mustard seed. 

1 qt. vinegar. 
Let salt and tomatoes stand over night, drain in the morning. Combine 
remaining ingredients. Seal in jars, do not cook. 

Maude Overlander, Highland, Texas. 

MUSTARD CHOW CHOW 

1 pk. small cucumbers cut into small cubes. 

2 large heads of cauliflower, broken into small pieces. 

y^ pk. small white onions, if very small leave whole, if larger, cut into quarters. 

1 large bunch of celery cut into small pieces. 

Mix all these together and put into a salt brine over night. Next morning 
drain through colander. 

Make dressing as follows: 

6 tbsp. mustard. 1 c. flour. 

1 tbsp. turmeric. 2 qts. vinegar. 

Mix dry ingredients with vinegar and stir until smooth. Cook until thick. 
Then add the celery, cucumbers, onions and cauliflower. Let heat thoroughly 
through, but do not let cook. Put into Mason jars and seal while hot. 

Mrs. M. Hillman, 516 Park Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 

MUSTARD PICKLES I 

14 lb. mustard. 1 qt. cucumber pickles. 

1 oz. turmeric. 1 head cauliflower. 

2 tbsp. mustard seed. 1 c. sugar. 
1 oz. celery seed. 1 qt. corn. 

1 qt. string beans. H g^l- vinegar. 

1 qt. small onions. 1 qt. green tomatoes. 

1 qt. lima beans. 1 red pepper. 

Boil cauliflower, onions and beans separately until tender. Mix all together 
and cook. 

Mrs. M. H. Ford, Perryman, Md. 



70 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

MUSTARD PICKLE II 

2 qts. green tomatoes. 6 green peppers. 

2 qts. green cucumbers. 2 cauliflowers. 

2 qts. small white onions. 3 bunches celery. 

DRESSING 

3 qts. vinegar. 3^ c. mustard. 

2 c. sugar. J^ oz. turmeric powder. 

% c. flour. 1 egg. 

Chop and mix the vegetables and cover them with one-half cupful of salt, 
and let them stand over night in a granite or porcelain kettle. In the morning, 
thoroughly drain and discard the liquid. Cook until tender in vinegar, diluted 
with water, and drain again. Before adding the dressing, mix the flour and mus- 
tard to a smooth paste with cold water and add the boiling vinegar previously 
mixed with the other ingredients, except the egg, which is added last. 

Mrs. a. a. Winkley, Faribault, Minn. 

PEPPER HASH 

11 onions. 8 green peppers. 

8 red peppers. 1 small head cabbage. 

8 yellow peppers. 2 bunches celery. 

1 pt. sugar. 

Remove seeds from peppers and run all through grinder. Salt and drain 
over night, in the morning squeeze out and pour over it two pints of vinegar, cold. 
Then add two tablespoonfuls white mustard seed and two tablespoonfuls celery 
seed. 

Seal in small jars. Mrs. Chas. Horn, 75 S. 6th St., Ironton, Ohio. 

PEPPER RELISH 

12 red sweet peppers. 1 qt. vinegar. 

12 green sweet peppers. 2 c. granulated sugar. 

14 large onions. 3 tbsp. salt. 

Chop sweet peppers and onions fine. Pour boiling water over and drain 
five minutes. Pour over boiling water again and drain for fifteen minutes. 

Put in a granite kettle the vinegar, sugar, salt. Add peppers and onions, 
cook until tender. A fine relish for all kinds of meats. 

Mrs. Ivan Hinckley, Belvidere, III. 

PEPPER RELISH II 

Select a nice bunch of celery, remove all the green leaves from it. Wash 
and clean the remainder and chop fine. Chop also six large green peppers and 
a dozen good sized green tomatoes, if small use one and one-half dozen. Put the 
chopped ingredients into a large jar. Sprinkle with one-half cupful salt, mix well. 
Cover and let stand over night. The next morning drain in a colander. Then 
put into a jar with two tablespoonfuls of mustard seed. Place over the fire a 
sauce pan containing three pints of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one 
tablespoonful of whole cloves, one tablespoonful allspice, one tablespoonful 
whole peppers. Two large onions, and a clove of garlic cut fine. Cook slowly 
covered for twenty minutes. Then strain off the vinegar and pour boiling hot 
over the vegetables. When cold, cover the jar and keep in a cool place. If you 
like it very hot, add a little cayenne. This will be ready for use in a couple of 
weeks. Miss Mary Stucker, 1720 Prospect Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 

PICALLILI 

1 pk. chopped green tomatoes. 

2 pks. cabbage, finely chopped. 

]/2 dozen large onions soaked in salt over night, finely cut. 

1 doz. cucumber pickles. 

2 doz. pickled green beans, finely cut. 

1 large or 2 small heads cauliflower, separated. 

3 bunches celery, finely cut. 
5 cts. ground horseradish. 

3^ lb. flower mustard. 
3 red peppers, finely cut. 

2 green peppers, finely cut. 

Spices mixed wet with scalding vinegar. 
Mix with the scalding hot spiced vinegar. 
Cut all the vegetables fine. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 71 

PICKLED EGGS AND BEETS 

Boll one-half dozen red beets until tender. Cover with cold water and slip 
out of skins. Also boil one-half dozen eggs, cool and peel. Heat enough weaken- 
ed vinegar to cover the beets when sliced. Season with salt, a little sugar and 
a dash of pepper, and while still boiling hot, pour over the sliced beets. When 
cool drop in the eggs and set away in the refrigerator until ready to use. When 
the eggs are nicely colored, cut those for immediate use in halves and serve 
with the beets. These will keep for a week in a properly ventilated refrigerator. 
They are especially nice for picnics. 

Mrs. Jessie A. Curnutt, Carrollton, III. 

PICKLE RELISH 

6 large onions. 1 c. chopped celery. 

6 large red peppers. Y2 c. salt. 

6 large green peppers. 2 c. brown sugar. 

1 pk. ripe tomatoes. 2 oz. mustard seed. 

Chop tomatoes and drain, chop other ingredients. Mix all together and 
add one quart of vinegar. 

Put in bottles with large tops and cover well with paraffin. 

Miss E. C. Hoyt, 19 Prince St., Bristol, Conn. 

RELISH 

Welsh Rarebit. Select richest and best American cheese, the milder the 
better, as melting brings out strength. To make five rarebits, take one pound 
cheese, grate and put in tin or porcelain lined saucepan, add ale (old is best) 
enough to thin the cheese sufficiently, say about a wineglassful to each rarebit. 
Place over fire, stir until it is melted. Have slice of toast ready for each rarebit 
(crusts trimmed), put a slice on each plate and pour cheese enough over each 
piece to cover it. Serve while hot. 

Mrs. J. H. Tucker, 3001 Campbell St., Kansas City, Mo. 

RELISH 

1 head of cabbage. 1 doz. pickles, sour. 

1 can pimentoes, 10-cent can. 
Small amount of celery and mustard seed, chop all together fine and'pour 
over it one-half cup of vinegar, one-half cup sugar which has been boiled and 
cooled. 

Mrs. D. Patterson, Decatur, III. 

RIPE TOMATO RELISH 

Grind one peck of ripe tomatoes and drain off all liquor, then add. 

1 c. salt. 2 oz. white mustard seed. 

2 lbs. light brown sugar. 4 large red peppers cut fine. 

2 oz. horseradish, grated. 2 bunches celery cut fine and 

mixed with 5 pts. vinegar. 
Put into jars and seal tight. 

Mrs. M. Hillman, 516 Park Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 

SOUTHERN RELISH 

1 dozen tomatoes, ripe or green. 1 tsp. cinnamon. 

6 small onions. 1 tsp. celery seed. 

Allspice and cloves. Y2 c- sugar. 

1 pt. vinegar. 
Season with salt and pepper to taste. Cook until done. Bottle. 

Mrs. W. Clyde Roberts, Pensacola, Fla. 

SWEET PICKLED PEACHES 

7 lbs. peaches. 1 pt. vinegar. 

3H lbs. sugar. 1 oz. cloves 

1 oz. cinnamon. 
Bring syrup to a boil and pour over fruit three days in succession, then 
bottle. 

H. Ellen Russell, Humphrey St., Marblehead, Mass. 



72 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

TOMATO RELISH 

1 pk. ripe tomatoes. 6 red peppers. 

6 large onions. 2 c. celery. 

Y2 c- grated horseradish. 
Peel tomatoes dry, cut out seeds. Chop fine, salt and drain. Put a little 
salt on onions. Chop and drain. Mix all together with two teaspoonfuls 
cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls white mustard seed, three cupfuls brown sugar, 
three pints cider vinegar, one and one-half cupfuls salt. Seal. Do not cook. 
Mrs. C. C. Mitchell, 500 W. Edward St., Springfield, III. 

TOMATO RELISH 

Put into your preserving kettle three pints of vinegar, one pound of brown 
sugar, one-half pound of salt and a bag containing two ounces of ground mustard 
seed, one ounce of cayenne pepper, one-fourth of an ounce of turmeric, and one 
ounce of powdered ginger. Chop together fourteen tart, ripe apples, one pound 
of seeded raisins, seven large tomatoes, four ounces chives and two garlics. Mince 
very fine, add to the vinegar and spices. Cook gently for a couple of hours. 
Press through a colander and bottle. Keep in refrigerator. 

Miss Mary Stucker, 1720 Prospect Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 

TOMATO RELISH WITHOUT COOKING 

1 pk. ripe tomatoes, cut fine. 2 c. sugar. 

2 c. chopped celery. 1 c. onion salt. 

2 green peppers, chopped fine. 2 oz. white mustard seed. 

1 qt. vinegar. 
Let tomatoes drain over night. Add celery, peppers, sugar, onion salt, 
mustard seed and vinegar. Seal in cans. 

Mrs. I. A. Alsbrook, 414 Wabash, Kansas City, Mo. 

TOMATO SOY 

1 pk. red, ripe tomatoes. 8 large onions. 

1 c. salt. 
Let stand twenty-four hours, drain and add: 

3 pts. best vinegar. 1 tsp. ground cloves. 

1 tsp. ground mustard. 1 tsp. ground allspice. 

1 tsp. ground ginger. 1 tsp. black pepper. 

1 tsp. ground celery seed. 
Stew slowly, when nearly done, add two pounds of brown sugar, five cents 
white mustard seed. Cook until thick. 

Mrs. C. R. Foutz, 1416 Harlem Ave., Baltimore, Md. 

UNCOOKED CHOW CHOW, OR RELISH 

1 head cabbage. 13^ tbsp. celery seed. 

6 good sized onions. 13^ tbsp. mustard seed. 

6 red peppers (not hot). Cayenne pepper, salt and sugar to taste. 

Mrs. F. H. Patterson, 608 Thirteenth Ave., Munhall, Pa. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 73 



AMBROSIA 

Layer oranges. Layer nuts. 

Layer bananas. Layer sugar. 

Layer pineapple. 

Then lastly at time of serving, 1 pt. or Y^ pt. of double cream, whipped, on top. 

Take three or four oranges and separate the sections and take off every bit 
of skin and break into small pieces, and four or five bananas sliced. Almost all 
of a can of pickwick pineapple cut in little pieces. Pecans are the nicest nuts to 
use for this. Take one pound of nuts, pour boiling water on them and let stand 
ten minutes. Then crack and see how nicely they come out and what a fine 
flavor they have. 

Mrs. Jacob Diehm, 241 S. Tenth St., Kansas City, Kan. 

AMBROSIA 

Peel one dozen oranges, slice, put a thick layer in a dish, cover with powdered 
sugar, have ready fresh grated cocoanut, put over the oranges, and sugar alter- 
nately, until the dish is full. Have cocoanut for the top. Chill in refrigerator. 

Mrs. R. L. Beckwith, R. D., Ovid, Mich. 

ANGEL CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

3^ envelope Knox sparkling gelatine 2 tbsp. chopped cand. cherries. 

1 c. sugar. \i lb. nuts. 

1 pt. whipping cream. J4 c. cold water. 

Yl doz. rolled stale macaroons. Y c. boiling water. 

1 doz. marshmallows cut into small 1 tsp. vanilla, 

pieces. 
Soak gelatine in cold water, add boiling water and sugar. _ When cold add 
cream stiffly beaten, then add macaroons, marshmallows, cherries and nuts, etc. 
Place on ice or in cool place to harden. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mary Emma Clark, Decatur, III. 

ANGEL CHARLOTTE ROUSSE 

1 tbsp. gelatine. H doz. rolled stale macaroons. 

Y c- cold water. 1 doz. marshmallows, cut in small pieces. 

J^ c. boiling water. 2 tbsp. chopped candied cherries 

1 c. sugar. Vanilla to flavor. 

1 pt. heavy cream. J4 lb. chopped blanched almonds. 

Soak gelatine in cold water, and dissolve in boiling water. Add sugar. 
When mixture is cold add cream beaten stiff. To beat cream well it should 
be kept very cold. Then add almonds, macaroons, etc., and keep on ice until 
ready to serve. 

Put candied cherry on top of each dish to serve. 

Mrs. F. W. Kirkpatrick, 58 Parks Ave., Joliet, III. 

ANGEL PARFAIT 

1 c. sugar. 1 pt. cream. 

^/i c. water. \i lb. crystallized cherries. 

Whites of 3 eggs. M lb. crystallized pineapple, 

ground. 
1 tbsp. vanilla. 
Boil sugar and water until syrup will thread, pour slowly over the beaten 
whites and beat until cool. Add cream, whipped stiff, fruits and vanilla. Freeze. 
One measure of salt to three of ice. 

Mrs. J. D. Rice, Sr., 208 White St., Huntsville, Ala. 



74 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



APPLE PUDDING 

Peel and cut in small pieces sour, ripe apples. Fill a baking dish to the 
depth of two inches and cover well with granulated sugar, allowing one cupful of 
sugar and one teaspoonful of butter to each quart of apple. Have ready stale 
bread crumbs crumbled and put a layer of crumbs over the apples to the depth 
of one inch, or even heavier if the apples are very juicy. Sprinkle with cinnamon 
or nutmeg, which ever is liked best, and put more butter on top of the crumbs. 

Bake carefully so as not to burn the bread. 

Mrs. R. G. Patschke, Newport, Pa. 

APPLE CREAM 

Add to one cupful of strained apple sauce, one tablespoonful lemon juice, a 
little grated lemon rind, a few grains of salt, sugar to taste and the unbeaten 
whites of three eggs. Beat with a whisk until stiff enough to hold its shape. 
Chill thoroughly and serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. L. Leason, 218 W. 62nd St., Chicago, III. 

APPLE CUSTARD 

Pare, core and bake thoroughly two large, tart apples, having filled the cen- 
ters with granulated sugar. When done, set away to cool. When cold, pour 
over thin custard. Serve very cold. 

Mrs. C. W. Howe, 2917 Twenty-ninth St., Coronado, Cal. 

APPLE SNOW 

Peel and grate one large sour apple, sprinkling over it a small cupful of 

powdered sugar as you grate it, to keep it from turning dark. Break into this the 

whites of two eggs and beat it all constantly for half an hour. Heap this in a 

glass dish and pour a fine, smooth custard around it. Set in refrigerator to chill. 

Mrs. a. E. Keiber, 1202 E. Pleasant St., Davenport, Iowa 

APPLE SNOW II 

Stew one dozen medium sized apples until soft, pass through a sieve, and set 
to cool. Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, sweeten to taste with 
powdered sugar and when the apples are cold, add gradually to the beaten eggs, 
folding in carefully. Chill well and serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. a. E. Burleigh, 2422 E. St., Box A, R. R. No. 1. 

Davenport, Iowa 

ATTRACTIVE WAYS OF SERVING WATERMELON 

With a round potato-cutter, cut from the heart of a slice of watermelon 
small round balls. Serve in tall stem glasses, cover with cracked ice and add 
a few mint leaves, or the melon balls may be served on bread-and-butter plates 
piled high on a grape leaf and covered with cracked ice. 

Peel oif the rind of the watermelon carefully, leaving only the ripe melon. 
Wrap in a cloth and put on ice to chill thoroughly. Serve on a long platter, 
prettily garnished. Cut in circular slices at the table. This is one of the most 
attractive summer desserts. 

Lila M. Delp, 8 W. Sixth St., Sterling, III. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING 

1 qt. milk, scalded. 34 tsp. ginger. 

1 c. sugar. J^ tsp. cinnamon. 

1 tbsp. molasses. J^ c. cornmeal. 

1 tbsp. butter. 
Bake one and one-half hours in a slow oven. A rich, dark custard will cover 
the top. Do not stir after the first ten minutes in oven. 

Louise H. Baker, Central Village, Conn. 



BANANA PIE 



'2 c. sugar. 



Bake pie crust. 

Slice 2 bananas on pie crust. 1 tsp. flour. 

2 eggs. 1 cup sweet milk. 

A little butter. 
Save whites of eggs for frosting, cook custard until thick and pour over the 
bananas. 

Mrs. C. H. Rce, 1317 Georgia St., Oshkosh, Wis. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 75 

BANANA PUDDING 

Soak one-half box of gelatine In one-half cupful of cold water until soft. 
Add one cupful of boiling water. Let stand until gelatine is dissolved. Add one 
cupful of sugar, juice of one lemon and one cup of orange juice. Stir until the 
sugar is dissolved. Strain and set aside in refrigerator until it begins to thicken. 

Wet a mold and place a layer of bananas in the bottom, then pour on half of 
thickened gelatine. When firm, add another layer of bananas and the remaining 
gelatine. Put back into refrigerator and leave until ready to serve. Serve 
with whipped cream or boiled custard that has been thoroughly chilled 

Mrs. H. B. Hurd, Madison, Minn. 

BLACKBERRY DELIGHT 

1 qt. blackberries. 1 c. cold water. 
4 tbsp. sugar. 1 c. cream. 

2 tbsp. gelatine. Spices. 

Put two tablespoonfuls gelatine to soak in one cupful cold water. Put ber- 
ries on fire with just enough water to keep from burning, mash, and stew until 
soft. When cooked nearly enough, add one slice of lemon, two whole cloves, 
small piece of cinnamon, dash of nutmeg. Strain through cloth, return to fire, 
bring juice to a boil and pour over gelatine. Add sugar and pour into mold. 
When cool, put in refrigerator. When hard, remove from mold, garnish with 
whole berries, or pecan meats, and serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. R. p. Jeter, Box 728, Cameron, Texas. 

BISQUE SARTONI 

This very delicious and quickly made dessert hails from Fair Italia. It is 
sufficient to serve four people. One-half pint cream, one dozen macaroons, one- 
half cupful nut meats, one-fourth pound candied cherries. Whip the cream until 
stiff, add macaroons, finely rolled, chopped walnut meats and cherries, cut in small 
pieces. Add sugar to taste and one teaspoonful vanilla may be added if liked. 
Put this mixture in mold and leave in refrigerator until thoroughly chilled, before 
serving. 

Mrs. J. B. Retallack, Northfork, W. Va. 

**BON BOHN WHIP" 

To one box of gelatine, soaked in one-half cupful cold water, add three cup- 
fuls boiling water, one cupful sugar, one cupful finely chopped walnuts and one 
cupful grated pineapple. Stir well. 

Put this in refrigerator. When it is cold and begins to jelly around the 
edges, have ready the beaten whites of four eggs. Add a spoonful at a time to 
the gelatine, beating thoroughly, until it is a white sponge. 

Dip mold in water and fill with the "Bon Bohn Whip." Place in refrigerator 
for three hours. Serve with whipped cream. This is enough for twelve. 

Mrs. Lafayette French, Sr., 400 Chatham St., Austin, Minn. 

BROWN SUGAR PUDDING 

Boil two cupfuls water, add two cupfuls brown sugar, and when boiling hard 
add three tablespoonfuls cornstarch, dissolved in cold water, and a little salt. 
Boil until thick and then add one-fourth cupful of chopped walnut meats. Place 
on ic§,in refrigerator to cool. Serve with cream. 

Ethel C. Holley, 50 Main St., Lockport, N. Y. 

CANTALOUPE DELIGHT 

Used in hot weather in place of soup. Allow one-half cantaloupe to each 
person, remove seeds and put on ice in refrigerator. Cut up into small pieces 
one grapefruit, three oranges, four slices canned Hawaiian pineapple, one-half 
pound Malaga grapes, twelve Maraschino cherries and a little wine, sugar to taste. 
Set away on ice in refrigerator. Fill each half cantaloupe with the fruit and 
garnish with Maraschino cherries and a dot of whipped cream. Serve on plates 
with doilies. The fruit is much improved if prepared the day before using and 
kept on ice, as it gives the fruit juices a chance to thoroughly mix. 

Mrs. Bartow N. Ayres, 21 Spring St., Stamford, Conn. 



76 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



CARAMEL CUSTARD WITH CARAMEL SAUCE 

4 c. scalded milk. Yi <-• sugar. 

5 eggs. 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Yi tsp. salt. 

Put sugar in omelet pan, stir constantly over hot part of range, 
or gas with lid on, until melted to a syrup of a light brown color. Add 
gradually to milk, being careful that milk does not bubble up and go over, as is 
liable to on account of high temperature of sugar. As soon as sugar is melted in 
milk, add mixture gradually to eggs, slightly beaten, add salt and flavoring, then 
pour in buttered mold. Bake as a custard, about twenty minutes. Chill and 
serve with caramel sauce. 

To bake custard: Set mold in pan of hot water and bake in a slow oven until 
firm, which may be determined by running a knife through custard, if knife 
comes out clean, custard is done. Care must be taken that the water around 
mold does not reach boiling point or custard will whey. Eggs and milk in com- 
bination must always be cooked at low temperatures. 

CARAMEL SAUCE 

Y2 c. sugar. Yi c. boiling water. 

Melt sugar as for caramel custard, add water, simmer ten minutes, cool 
before serving. Sugar for sauce and custard may be melted together, then re- 
serve one-half for sauce. 

AIrs. James Abels, 1930 S. Fourth St., Springfield, III. 

CARAMEL MOUSSE 

Put one-half cup granulated sugar into an aluminum pan, and stir until 
it turns a very light brown. Add one cup hot water to dissolve caramel. Dis- 
solve three tablespoons of plain gelatine, and add to the caramel. Mix the whole 
into one quart of cream which has been whipped very stiff, and add about one 
tablespoon sugar. Place in your refrigerator to set, and serve plain or with 
whipped cream. 

Mrs. a. F. Hasselman, 2126 Winthrop Ave., Davenport, Iow^a 

CHANTILLY BASKET 

Make a cement of sugar boiled to crackling point. Dip the edges of some 
macaroons into it and line a mold shaped like a basket with them, taking care 
that the edges of the macaroons touch each other. When wanted, take it out of 
the mold, fill it with whipped cream, and it is then ready for the table. Time, 
two or three hours to set. 

A line filling for this basket. 

1 pt. cream, whipped. 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Y c- sugar. 1 doz. macaroons, dried and 

crushed. 
IS English walnuts, cut in small pieces. 
Sarah J. Freeman, 908 Twenty-second St., Rock Island, III. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

One tablespoon gelatine dissolved in one-half pint boiling water. When 
cool add the beaten yolks of three eggs and one cup sugar. Let this begin to 
harden, then add one pint of whipped cream and the beaten whites of three 
eggs and one teaspoon vanilla. Pour this over cake or lady fingers and set in 
refrigerator until it hardens. 

Mrs. H. R. Ball, 401 N. Washington St., Valparaiso, Ind. 

CELESTINE CREAM 

Imbed a plain mold in some rough ice. Line the bottom and sides of the 
mold with fresh picked strawberries, taking care to put each in dissolved gelatine. 
When the interior of the mold is completely covered on the bottom and sides, 
fill the interior with the following cream. 

Pick over a box of berries, bruise them with a wooden spoon In a basin, with 
a cupful of fine sugar. Rub this through a fine wire sieve. Add one-half box of 
powdered gelatine which has been soaked In one-half cup cold water and dissolved 
over hot water. Fold In one pint whipped cream and turn into mold. 

Sarah J. Freeman, 908 Twenty-second St., Rock Island, III. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 11 

CHOCOLATE BAVARIAN CREAM 

1 tbsp. gelatine. \^ c. hot water. 

2 tbsp. cold water. 1 c. heavy cream. 
Yl c. scalded milk. Yi tsp. vanilla. 

2 sq. chocolate. Few grains salt. 

Pour cold water over gelatine. Melt chocolate in small pan, set in larger pan 
of boiling water. Add sugar and hot water stir and boil until smooth. Then add 
gelatine. Add mixture to hot milk, strain into bowl and set in pan of ice water. 
Beat until mixture begins to thicken, then add cream, beaten until stiff, vanilla 
and salt. Turn into molds and chill. 

Mrs. H. R. Ball, 401 N. Washington St., Valparaiso, Ind. 

CHOCOLATE DAINTY 

Melt two cakes of sweet German chocolate with two tablespoonfuls of water 
and two tablespoonfuls of sugar and one tablespoonful gelatine soaked and dis- 
solved in one-fourth cupful water. To this add yolks of four eggs, one at a time. 
Beat whites stiff, then add to above mixture. Line a mold with wax paper. Lay 
halves of lady fingers to suit your fancy, then pour over half of above mixture, 
another layer of lady fingers and cover with remainder of chocolate mixture. 

Let stand in refrigerator for five hours, then serve with whipped cream. 
A very fine dessert. 

CHOCOLATE GELATINE 

Soak one-fourth box gelatine In one-half cupful cold milk. Dissolve in one 
and one-half cups hot milk. Add scant half cup of melted chocolate, mixed with 
one cupful sugar, pinch of salt and one teaspoonful vanilla flavoring. Stir until 
it begins to thicken. Then pour into mold, set in refrigerator to harden, serve 
with plain cream flavored with vanilla, or use a cooked custard. 

CHOCOLATE PIE 
CRUST 

1 c. flour. 3 tbsp. water. 

\i c. lard. y^ tsp. salt. 

Sift flour and salt together, add lard and water and mix with a knife. Chill 
on ice in refrigerator. Roll out thin and cover bottom of pie tin. Prick with a 
fork to prevent blistering, then bake. 

FILLING 

3 eggs. 1 inch square chocolate, grated. 

1 c. white sugar. 1 H c. milk. 

2 tbsp. flour. 1 tsp. vanilla. 
J^ tsp. salt. }/i tsp. cinnamon. 

1 tsp. butter. 
Mix sugar, flour, and salt together. Add chocolate, the beaten egg yolks, 
milk, vanilla, cinnamon and butter. Cook in a double boiler until it thickens. 
Pour this into the baked crust and cover with the stiffly beaten egg whites, to 
which one tablespoonful sugar has been added. Place in the oven and brown. 
Cool in refrigerator and serve cold. 

Mrs. W. Alvis McCoy, 302 N. Oakley Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 

CHOCOLATE PARFAIT SURPRISE 

Put on in a double boiler one pint of rich milk or thin cream, and bring to 
boiling point. Add one cup of grated unsweetened chocolate, that will be one- 
quarter of a pound, four tablespoons of granulated sugar, and cook, stirring 
constantly, until perfectly smooth and thick. Remove from fire, and beat in 
the yolks of two or three eggs, and pour into cups or tall glasses. Set aside to 
cool. Break into bits, or run through a food chopper one-quarter pound of pecans 
or walnuts and sprinkle over the chocolate mixture, and put into the ice box 
until perfectly cold. Then cover with whipped cream and serve. 

Mrs. George Edwyn Holding, 39 W. Washington Square, 

New York City 



78 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



1 pt. milk 

2 eggs. 
2 sq. chocolate. 



CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

X c. sugar. 



3^ c. bread crumbs. 
2 tbsp. cornstarch. 
1 tsp. vanilla. 

Heat milk in double boiler, then add bread crumbs and chocolate, stir until 
chocolate is dissolved, add cornstarch mixed smooth with a little milk, eggs 
beaten together with sugar and a pinch of salt. Cook fifteen minutes or until 
it is quite thick, add vanilla and turn into pudding dish. Serve very cold with 
whipped cream. 

S. A. Griswold, S3 Charter Oak Ave., Hartford, Conn. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

1 large tbsp. butter. J^ cup milk. 

Yl c. sugar, 1 egg. 1 tsp. baking powder. 

1 tsp. vanilla. 1 sq. chocolate. 

1 cup flour. 
Beat egg, add sugar, milk and flour mixed, and sifted with baking powder, 
melt chocolate and butter together and add to mixture, flavor with vanilla. 
Steam one hour, and serve with the following sauce: One egg, one-half cup 
hot milk, one cup sugar, vanilla flavoring. Beat egg to a froth and add other 
ingredients. Serve cold. Miss Carrie Landwehr, Higginsville, Mo. 

COFFEE JELLY 

3 tbsp. ground coff'ee. 1 envelope gelatine. 

Put the gelatine to soak in one cupful cold water and make between two and 
three cupfuls of coffee. Pour over the gelatine and add enough hot water to make 
a quart in all. Strain through cloth and set in refrigerator to stiff'en. Serve with 
sugar and plain or whipped cream. 

Mrs. Leonard W. Dart, 16 Berkeley Ave., New London, Conn. 

COFFEE SPONGE 

Cover one-half box of gelatine, or one ounce of gelatine, with one-half cupful 
cold water and let soak for thirty minutes. Add one pint of strained, hot coffee 
and three-fourths of a cupful of sugar. When the sugar is dissolved, add one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla extract. When the mixture has cooled, beat in the whites of 
four eggs that have been beaten stiff. Turn into individual molds and set in a 
cool place to harden. Serve with whipped cream. 

Gladys J. Partelow, 79 Rawson Road, Wollaston, Mass. 

COLD PUDDING 

4 tbsp. crystallized fruit. 
1 c. cream. 
1 c. scalded milk. 
Little ratafias. 

Mix the cornstarch and sugar. Add the scalded milk, butter and cream. 
Cook all together in a double boiler until it leaves the pan, flavor it with whatever 
you may fancy. Then stir in the crystallized fruit cut into small pieces, put it 
into a wet mold, and when quite cold, turn it out and stick it all over with ratafia 
cakes. Place in refrigerator until needed. Before serving, make a thick custard 
and pour over the pudding. Then serve immediately. 

Mrs. George Coles, 694 E. 20th St., Portland, Ore. 

COLD SNOWBALLS 

1 pt. scalded milk. 6 tbsp. cornstarch mixed with 

}/2 c. sugar. 
Add cornstarch and sugar mixture to scalded milk, stirring all the time until 
thickened. Continue cooking over hot water twenty minutes. Add one tea- 
spoonful flavoring. Remove from the fire and fold in the whites of three eggs, 
beaten stiff. Put this mixture in cups to harden, allowing about three table- 
spoonfuls to each cup. 

Make a custard by mixing three egg yolks in one-half cup of sugar, add one 
pint of scalded milk gradually and cook, stirring all the time until thickened. 
Remove from fire. When cold, turn the white mounds out in a glass dish, dot 
the top of each with currant jelly and pour the custard around them, or serve in 
individual glasses. 

Miss E. O. Ericson, 517 Webster St., Red Wing, Minn. 



5 tbsp. cornstarch. 
4 tbsp. sugar. 
2 tbsp. butter. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 79 



COLD RICE FRUIT PUDDING 

Rub a small cupful of steamed rice through a sieve. Put two tablespoonfuls 
of gelatine in a cup with a little water. Let stand five minutes, then fill cup with 
boiling water. Combine mixtures, cool and add one-half cupful confectioner's 
sugar, one teaspoonful vanilla, few grains salt and one-half pint of heavy cream 
beaten stiff. Then fold in one cupful blackberries. Turn into mold dipped in 
cold water and chill. 

Mrs. Chas. C. Jacobs, 1523 Yecker Ave., Kansas City, Kan. 

CRANBERRY JELLY 

Prepare a rich, sweet cranberry juice. In straining, care should be taken to 
remove all seeds. To one quart of cranberry juice add the strained juice of one 
lemon. Dissolve two tablespoonfuls of powdered gelatine in one cupful of hot 
water. Stir into cranberry juice. Heat all well over the fire for five minutes, 
do not boil. Then add two cupfuls cold water. Turn into a glass dish, set in 
the refrigerator to jelly. This is very good. 

Miss A. M. Branagan, 2043 Twelfth St. Blvd., Chicago, III. 

CURRANT FLUMMERY 

Add two cupfuls of granulated sugar to the strained juice of two quarts of 
mashed and strained currants. Stir until the sugar is dissolved. Take one pint 
of this juice and pour over a pint of ground rice and blend until perfectly smooth. 
Boil the remainder of the juice in a double boiler and into this carefully stir the 
thickened juice. Cook until thick and then pour into a mold and set on the ice 
in refrigerator to stiffen. Miss Fannie Louis, Grundy Center, Iowa 

CREOLE CREAM 

Make a lemon jelly and flavor with rum, if liked. When this is beginning to 
harden, line a round mold with it. Make a custard with one pint of milk, six 
eggs, three-fourths cup of sugar and three tablespoonfuls of gelatine soaked in 
one-fourth cup cold water over hot water. Strain and whisk gently over ice 
water until quite thick, add to it some blanched and chopped almonds and chop- 
ped, crystallized pineapple. Pour this into the center of the mold, having the 
jelly border, and set on ice in refrigerator until very hard. Serve unmolded. 
Mrs. L. Scallan, 198 Billings Road, Atlantic, Mass. 

CREOLE DESSERT 

^ c. whipped cream. 2 tbsp. sugar. 

Y2 tsp. vanilla. 
Take marshmallows cut into bits with scissors, put into sherbert glass, cut 
up sliced pineapple, put on marshmallow, add the whipped cream, and on top 
place candied cherry. 

Mrs. L. C. Andrew, 209 W. Bridge St., Ironton, Ohio 

A DAINTY 

Drop dry, whole, ripe figs into a flat bowl and cover with grape juice. Let 
stand several hours, or over night in refrigerator, so they will get soft. 

Open one end of each fig with a sharp knife, insert a nut meat or toasted 
marshmallow, close the opening. Roll in sugar, arrange on a glass dish and set 
in refrigerator until ready to serve at dinner. 

Mrs. L. R. Fink, New Ulm, Texas. 



A DAINTY DESSERT 

Fill the bottom of a sherbet glass with sliced peaches. Cover peaches with 
crumbed macaroons which have been dried in an oven, then garnish with whipped 
cream and Maraschino cherries. Set aside on ice in refrigerator to chill. Sugar 
peaches and cream to suit the taste. 

Mrs. Bartow N. Ayres, 21 Spring St., Stamford, Conn. 



so HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

DANISH PUDDING 

1 lb. brown sugar. 1 qt. scalded milk. 

I c. boiling water. Yolks 6 eggs. 

1 c. pecan meats. Whites 6 eggs. 

1 c. granulated sugar. 
Caramelize the brown sugar, pour over this the boiling water, stir and pour 
into baking dish, sprinkle nuts over top. Set aside for a few minutes. Make a 
custard by pouring the scalded milk over the beaten eggs, adding sugar. Pour 
the custard over the caramel and nuts. Don't stir. 

Bake in moderate oven until custard sets. Cool and set in refrigerator until 
well chilled through. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. H. S. Carmichael, Buckner, Mo. 

DARK SECRET 

1 tbsp. gelatine. 34 c. preserved or candied 
4 tbsp. cold water. pineapple. 

3^ c. thin cream, scalded. 4 tbsp. hot water. 

2 sq. chocolate. ^ c. powdered sugar. 

1 tsp. vanilla. 2 c. (1 pt.) thick cream, 

whipped. 
Lady fingers (if desired) 
Soak gelatine in cold water ten minutes and dissolve in scalded cream. Whip 
cream and add powdered sugar to it. Melt chocolate by placing in cup, set in a 
pan of boiling water, add to chocolate the four tablespoonfuls boiling water, then 
pineapple, and stir in gelatine mixture while hot. Set this in pan of cold water, 
and stir continually until it begins to thicken, then fold in the cream. 

Dip a mold in cold water, line it with lady fingers (if you like) and pour in 
the "Dark Secret." Set on ice in refrigerator and serve ice cold with whipped 
cream. 

Mrs. O. M. Polk, 1313 Vine St., New Castle, Ind. 

DATE PUDDING 

^ c. sugar. 2 tsp. baking powder. 

1 c. English walnuts, broken. J^ c. bread crumbs. 

1 c. dates,' cut small. 3 eggs. 

Beat egg yolks until very light and mix with the first five ingredients. Fold 
in whites beaten stiflF. Bake in shallow pan ten to fifteen minutes. Serve cold with 
whipped cream. This can be prepared the day before it is used and will serve 
about eight people. 

Mrs. Charles Lee Sullivan, 506 Grand Ave., Dayton, Ohio. 

DATE PUDDING 

Take one-half pound of dates, stone them and add three-quarter cup of 
sugar and one cup of boiling water. Cook to a paste, add more water if needed. 
When cool add two cups of cold boiled rice. Beat together with fork and serve 
with whipped cream. 

Figs can be used instead of dates. 

Mrs. R. G. Fuller, Savanna, III. 

DELICIOUS BLUEBERRY DESSERT 

Stew blueberries or any other berries and sweeten to taste and pour hot over 
thin slices of baker's bread, buttered and with crusts cut off', making alternate 
layers of fruit and bread, leaving a thick layer of fruit for the last. Put a plate 
on top and when cool set on ice in refrigerator. Serve with sweetened cream. 
This is inexpensive. 

Mrs. Geo. J. Manning, 403 S. Sixth St., Ironton, Ohio. 

DELMONICO PUDDING 

1 lb. marshmellows. 1 pt. cream. 

1 small bottle maraschino cherries. 8 tbsp. sherry wine. 

}/i lb. English walnuts. 

Cut marshmallows, English walnuts and cherries into small pieces, pour 
sherry wine over this, stir it all up and let set in refrigerator all night. In the 
morning, whip the cream, pour it over the marshmallows and cherries. Beat 
or stir it all up and set on ice in refrigerator until ready to serve. 

Mrs. W. a. Giesendoffer, 610 Locust Grove, Charlottesville, Va. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 81 

DESSERT APPLES 

Peel and core five or six medium sized apples. Bake until done, but still 
hold their shape, using plenty of sugar. Set out to cool. Prepare one pint of 
strawberry or lemon gelatine, sweeten and when cool, pour around apples, plac- 
ing one apple in each individual mould. Set aside in refrigerator until gelatine 
congeals. Mound with whipped cream and shave preserved ginger over each 
when served. 

Mrs. Arthur Shores, 132 Hampton Drive, Spartanburg, S. C. 

DUTCH APPLE PUDDING 

1 pt. of flour. 1 egg. 

1 tsp. of cream of tartar. 1 c. of milk. 

Y2 tsp. of soda. 2 tbsp. of butter. 

}/2 tsp. of salt. 4 large apples. 

Mix the salt, soda and cream of tartar with the flour and rub through a 
sieve. Beat the egg light and add the milk. Rub the butter into the flour. 
Pour the milk and egg on this, and mix quickly and thoroughly. Spread the 
dough about one-half inch deep on a buttered pan. Have the apples pared, 
cored and cut into eighths. Stick these pieces in rows into the dough. Sprinkle 
with two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Bake in a quick oven about twenty-five 
minutes. 

This pudding is to be eaten with sugar and cream or a simple sauce. 

GusiE Helm, Slaterville, R. I. 

DUCHESS PUDDING 

Cook one cup of minute tapioca in one cup water until clear, stirring con- 
stantly (more water may be necessary). Remove from fire and add juice of 
two lemons, one cup diced pineapple, two cups of sugar, two oranges cut in bits, 
two bananas sliced, a little salt and last whites of two eggs beaten to stiff froth. 
A few candied cherries, cut in bits and added to the mixture, add greatly to the 
beauty as well as to the taste. Turn into individual moulds and set in 
refrigerator until ready for use. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. S. J. EwAN, 2514 May St., W. H., Cincinnati, Ohio. 

EASTER TRIFLES 

A delicious dish and one charming to look at, representing a nest of eggs. 
Soak one-half box of gelatine in one-half cupful of cold water one-half hour. Scald 
two cupfuls of milk and add to the gelatine, with two tablespoonfuls of sugar and 
one teaspoonful of vanilla. Allow it to cool until it thickens, then add one cupful 
of cream, whipped very stiff. 

Wash six eggs, make a hole in side of shell near the large end, pour out the 
whites into a bowl. Break up the yolks with skewer and put in another bowl 
ready to be used for cake. 

Wash inside of shells and drain them. Set them with the hole up in a box of 
salt (or anything that will hold them level). 

Pour blanc mange in slowly through a funnel and set in a cold place to harden. 

Soak the other half of the box of gelatine together with half the package of 
rose coloring matter found in each box, in one-half cupful of cold water five min- 
utes, add one cupful of sugar and pour over gelatine and sugar one cupful boiling 
water. Add the juice of two lemons with sufficient water to make a cupful of 
liquid. When cool (not cold) pour into a round glass dish with a bowl inverted 
in the center, set away to harden. When ready to serve, remove the bowl, place 
small strips of candled lemon peel on sides and top of the jelly nest to represent 
straws, then break the egg shells carefully and place eggs in the nest, adding a 
flake of whipped cream here and there, to simulate feathers. 

Margaret Adams Hill, 1031 Fremont St., Belvidere, III. 

EASY PUDDING 

One quart milk, one-half package of gelatine soaked in the milk ten minutes. 
Heat in double boiler, when hot add the well beaten yolks of four eggs and four 
tablespoons of sugar. Cook until it thickens, then pour over the four beaten 
whites and five tablespoons sugar, add vanilla and pour In a mould. 

For sauce take out a bowl full and add a cup of cream. 

Put in ice when ready to serve, slice like brick ice cream. Chopped 
blanched almonds may be added to sauce. 

Mrs. de Vnis, Ida Grove, Iowa. 



82 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING 

12 eggs. 2 lbs. raisins. 

2 lbs. sugar. 2 lbs. suet. 

2 lbs. currants. 2 lbs. bread crumbs. 

2 nutmegs. 
Mix thoroughly and boil five hours. 
This will keep one year or longer. ' 

Mrs. J. W. Roberts, St. Edward, Neb. 

FAIRY PUDDING 

Soften one tablespoonful of gelatine in cold water five minutes and dissolve 
in a cooked custard made of two and one-half cupfuls of milk and two-thirds cup- 
ful of sugar and yolks of five eggs. Add two-thirds cupful of chopped raisins, 
four tablespoonfuls of chopped nuts, one-fourth pound of shredded cocoanut and 
one teaspoonful of vanilla. Place in refrigerator and when it begins to set, fold 
in the stiffly beaten whites of four eggs. Turn into a mold and set it back into 
refrigerator. Serve with whipped cream. This is better if made a day before 
serving. 

FLOATING ISLAND 

Put one quart sweet milk in double boiler and let it scald. Whip whites of 
two eggs very stiff, adding two teaspoonfuls powdered sugar. Drop by spoonfuls 
on top of scalding milk, till they are light and puffy. Remove whites onto plate 
and then to the scalding milk add one and one-half tablespoonfuls cornstarch, 
dissolved in a little cold milk, stir till it thickens. Then add four tablespoonfuls 
sugar, which has been mixed with a few grains of salt and yolks of two eggs well 
beaten. Flavor with vanilla. Place whites of eggs in small islands over top of 
custard, and set aside in refrigerator to cool. When ready to serve, sprinkle 
grated sweet chocolate over top. 

Mrs. L. a. Van Ness, 222 N. Fifth St., Newark, N. J. 

FLOATING ISLAND 

3 eggs. IJ^ pts. milk. 

^ cup sugar. 1 heaping tsp. of cornstarch. 

Use the whites of two eggs for the top, and beat the rest with the sugar. 
Dissolve the cornstarch in a little of the milk, and add to the eggs and sugar. 
Heat the rest of the milk, and add the eggs to it and cook until thick, then add 
teaspoon of vanilla. When cool place in a nice serving dish. Beat the remaining 
two whites until stiff and add enough powdered sugar to suit the taste, and a few 
drops of vanilla. Drop by spoonfuls on top of custard to represent islands. 
Place in refrigerator until ready to use. 

Mrs. a. O. Grimes, 2846 Shenandoah Ave., St. Louis, Mo. 

FOOD FOR THE GODS 

6 eggs. Y2 lb. English walnuts. 

1 c. sugar. 6 crackers. 

Y2 lb. dates. 3 tsp. baking powder. 

Beat the whites of six eggs to a froth and add a few grains of salt and one cup- 
ful of sugar, then the well beaten egg yolks. Cut into small pieces one-half 
pound of dates and one-half pound of English walnuts, and stir all together. Then 
add six crackers rolled fine to make one tablespoonful crumbs and a heaping tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. Bake in a slow oven and then break into small bits. 
Then take one pint of whipped cream and make a layer of the cake and then of 
cream and so on until all is covered with cream and smooth. 

Mrs. B. Wayne, 611 W. Thirty-third St., Kansas City, Mo. 



FRESH STRAWBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM 

Soak two tablespoonfuls of granulated gelatine in water to cover. Dissolve 
over hot water. To one-half cupful of sugar and one-half cupful of water add one- 
half box stemmed strawberries and heat to boiling point, but do not mash. Turn 
in the gelatine and when it begins to jell, add one pint of cream whipped stiff, 
folding it in carefully. Place this on the ice in refrigerator to become stiff and 
serve with additional strawberries, stev/ed. 

Mrs. L. Leason, 218 W. 62nd St., Chicago, III. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 83 

FRUIT CHARLOTTE 

Line a mold with lady fingers and sections of oranges, soak one-half package 
of gelatine in one cupful cold water for one-half hour, pour in one and one-half 
cupfuls of hot water and stir until dissolved. Then add one cupful of sugar and 
set in refrigerator until it begins to thicken. Beat the whites of three eggs until 
stiff. Mix lightly with gelatine, flavor with extract of orange and pour into a mold. 
Put into refrigerator until ready for use. 

Mrs. Cecil K. Perkins, 29 Bridge St., Beaver Falls, Pa. 

FRUIT DAINTY 

Any fruit in season may be used. Line a mould with slices of pineapple, 
orange, banana or candied fruit. Soak one-third box of gelatine in one-third cup 
of cold water, fifteen minutes. Boil one cup of sugar in one-third cup of water to 
syrup, dissolve gelatine in this, add the juice of one lemon, strain this over one cup 
of fruit juice and pulp. Turn in a bowl of ice water and when it begins to 
harden whip with egg beater, add three well beaten egg whites and continue to 
beat until stiff, pour in mould and set on ice. Serve with whipped cream flavored 
with same kind of fruit as in the snow. 

May W. Firstenberger, 924 Northrup Ave., Kansas City, Kan. 

FRUIT DELIGHT 

1 c. fresh strawberries crushed with a wire potato masher. 

Grated apples (four good sized ones). 

1 c. crushed peaches, canned or fresh peaches. 

Almond extract. Mix ingredients and chill. 

Any berry that is in season is good for this recipe. Pine apple is also good. 
In summer the fresh fruit is best and in winter apples and canned fruit. Of 
course the fresh fruit is best, hence the necessity of a good refrigerator. 

Mrs. Harold Kreidler, 426 Walnut St., South Bethlehem, Pa. 

FRUIT MOUSSES 

Whip one pint of cream very stiff and drain. Mix with it a cupful of any 
fruit pulp, the juice drained off and pulp mixed with enough powdered sugar 
to make it of the same consistency as the whipped cream, a little cochineal 
added to strawberry or peach mousse gives it a better color. Flavor with a 
little vanilla. Mould and pack in ice for three hours. 

Mrs. T. Edgar Cheek, 212 Morris St., Durham, N. C. 

FRUIT SAUCE 

4 oranges. IJ^ c. sugar. 

6 bananas. ^ c. water. 

Remove pulp of oranges carefully from segments and cut in small pieces. 
Putting unpeeled oranges in hot water a few minutes helps to remove skin quickly. 
Peel and slice bananas. Put oranges and bananas together and pour over this 
syrup when cool. 

Make syrup of one and one-half cupfuls sugar and three-fourths cupfuls 
water. Boil five minutes. Pour over fruit when cool. Chill for two or three 
hours in refrigerator. Serve cold. Delicious for dessert on a hot day or at any 
time. 

Mrs. C. Everett Whitney, Andover, N. H. 

FRUIT WHIP 

1 c. granulated sugar. 1 c. crushed fruit. 

White of 1 egg 

Beat egg white until stiff, add sugar and fruit. Beat until the whole is one 
mass of goodness. 

If one possess a cake mixer, it will only require ten minutes beating. The 
longer it is beaten, the lighter the snow or whip gets, and the more you get. Place 
in a refrigerator until ice cold. This dessert must be cold to be good, as it is 
too rich and sweet to be eaten if not thoroughly chilled. 

Use the yolks of eggs for sauce by adding two tablespoonfuls cornstarch, 
four tablespoonfuls sugar, one-fourth teaspoonful vanilla, mixed, to one pint of 
scalded milk, cooking and stirring all the time until thickened. This must also 
be ice cold before serving over the fruit snow. 



84 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



GOLDEN WHIP 

2 tbsp. gelatine. Juire and rind 2 oranges. 
6 egg yolks and whites, Juice of \]^ lemons. 

beaten separately. 1 c. sugar. 

Soak gelatine with one-fourth cupful water, let stand fifteen minutes. Add 

one-half cupful boiling water to the gelatine. Beat the yolks and sugar to a 

cream. Add the juice of the oranges and lemons, then add the gelatine. Chill 

in refrigerator and when it begins to jell, fold in the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. 

Set on ice in refrigerator to become firm. Serve with whipped cream, 
cut fine, and put in a mold to thicken. Serve cold with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Thos. Gill, Tekoa, Wash. 

GERMAN DATE PUDDING 

3 eggs. IH tsp. baking powder. 

1 c. sugar. 2 c. dates, washed and stoned. 

1 tbsp. flour. 1 c. English walnut meats. 

Beat eggs and sugar together until smooth, then add baking powder and 
flour sifted together. Stir well and mix in dates and nuts. Bake in two quart 
pan. When the pudding rises and begins to brown, stir from bottom of pan. It 
may be necessary to repeat this. When it is done it will be caramelized through- 
out. It generally takes about forty minutes to cook. When done, set aside 
to cool. Set in refrigerator to chill. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. H. S. Carmichael, Buckner, Mo. 

GINGER CREAM 

Here is a new and most delicious recipe for a ginger dessert. The cost is 
slight and the quantity serves six persons. 

4 oz. preserved ginger. 1 pt. milk. 
3 eggs. H c. sugar. 

1 tbsp. gelatine 

Take milk, beaten egg yolks, sugar and two tablespoonfuls syrup from ginger, 
cook all together until thick, strain, add gelatine dissolved in a little cold milk 
and when it begins to thicken fold in stiffly beaten whites of eggs. 

Add four ounces preserved ginger. 

GINGER JELLY 

Soak two tablespoonfuls of granulated gelatine in two tablespoonfuls of cold 
water. Then dissolve in two-thirds cupfuls of boiling water. Add one-half cup- 
ful sugar, one-fourth cupful lemon juice and one pint bottle good ginger ale. Turn 
into individual mold and place on ice in refrigerator to harden. When ready to 
serve, unmold and garnish with whipped cream and bits of candied ginger. 

Mrs. L. Scallan, 198 Billings Road, Atlantic, Mass. 

GRAHAM PUDDING 

1 pt. boiling water. 1 c. seeded raisins. 

J^ c. sugar in water. H c. chopped walnuts. 

}^ c. graham flour. Whipped cream. 

Stir in lightly graham flour (not sifted) and cook slowly until thick. Add 
seeded raisins chopped fine and cook half hour in a double boiler. Just before 
taking off stove, add the English walnuts chopped, and a little vanilla. This 
serves five people. May be served hot or cold, is delicious with whipped cream, 
ice cream or plain cream. 

Hannah J. Kennedy, 410 N. Fourth St., Springfield, III. 

GOLDEN LEMON CREAM 

Cook in a double boiler until thick the juice and grated rind of two lemons, 
the yolks of three eggs beaten light and one cupful of sugar and one-fourth cupful 
butter. 

Stir constantly while cooking. When thick, remove from fire. Let cool, 
then add pinch salt, and one-half cupful sugar. Beat with spoon until waxy, 
and you have a filling fit for a queen. If set in refrigerator, it will keep for a 
week. Mrs. Fred W. Graeber, Mineral Point, Wis. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 85 

GRAPEFRUIT JELLY 

1 envelope gelatine. 1 c. boiling water. 

1 c. cold water. 1 pt. grapefruit juice. 

Dissolve gelatine in cold water, add boiling water, one cupful sugar and juice. 
Place in mold on ice in refrigerator. When it begins to harden, add shredded, 
crystallized grapefruit peel or crystallized kumquats cut into pieces. 

May Viola Bielby, De Land, Fla. 

GRAPE JUICE DESSERT 

Let one pint of grape juice and one cupful water come to a boil slowly, then 
add three-fourths cupful sugar, one-half cupful cornstarch dissolved in a little 
cold water, making it the consistency of cream. Boil about five minutes, con- 
tinue cooking in double boiler fifteen minutes, pour into individual molds, drop 
sliced oranges or sliced peaches into it, and a sprinkling of fine nut meats on top. 
Let cool, then place in refrigerator to set thoroughly. When about to serve, 
turn out of mold. Can be eaten plain or with cream. 

Mrs. J. A. Ermatinger, 644 Oakland Ave., Milwaukee, Wis. 

HAMBURG CREAM 

Stir together the juice and rind of two large lemons and one cup of sugar, 
add the well beaten yolks of eight eggs, put all in a tin pail, set in a pot of boiling 
water, stir for three minutes, take from the fire, add the well beaten whites of 
the eggs and serve when cold in custard glasses. 

Mrs. T. S. Jackson, Box 33, R. No. 3, Brighton, Tenn. 

HEAVENLY HASH 

1 pt. whipped cream. Candied cherries. 
25 best marshmallows. 3^ c. walnuts. 

3^ c. dates. 
Mix the marshmallows, nuts and dates, broken in small pieces, with the 
whipped cream. Let stand on ice in refrigerator for several hours. Decorate 
with candied cherries and serve ice cold. 

Mrs. R. W. Taylor, 55 N. Pearl St., Buffalo, N. Y. 

HEAVENLY HASH No. 2 

1 lb. chopped apples without peeling. J^ lb. chopped and seeded raisins 

1 lb. granulated sugar. 1 orange chopped fine, 

peeling and all. 
Cook all together slowly until clear, chill and serve. 
Mrs. a. E. Burleigh, 2422 East St., Box A, R. R. No. 1, Davenport, Iowa 

ICE BOX PUDDING 

15 lady fingers. 4 tbsp. sugar. 

2 cakes sweet chocolate. 2 tbsp. water. 

4 eggs. 

Melt the chocolate. Add sugar and then water gradually. Cook over slow 
fire. Do not let the mixture boil. Add the egg yolks one at a time, beating 
briskly. Fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites. 

Line a mold with oiled paper and with halves of lady fingers. Put in half the 
custard and a layer of halves of lady fingers. Fill up with remaining custard and 
lady fingers and fold oiled paper over the top. Put in refrigerator for six or eight 
hours to set. Turn out on a plate and garnish with whipped cream. 

ICED FRUIT PUDDING 

Cut one cupful of seeded raisins into three or four pieces each. Cut one-half 
cupful of citron into fine shreds. Cut one-half cupful of candied cherries into 
halves. Simmer raisins and citron for twenty minutes in a cupful of water and 
one-half cupful of sugar and put aside to get cold. Whip one pint of thick cream 
very stiff. Then add gradually three tablespoonfuls of gelatine soaked in one-half 
cupful of cold water dissolved over hot water. Continue beating occasionally 
for twenty minutes. Add the cherries to the raisins and citron, together with a 
teaspoonful of ground nutmeg, one-half teaspoonful extract of almonds and one 
tablespoonful extract of vanilla. Stir to mix thoroughly and add gradually the 
whipped cream. Then put into a suitable moid and put in refrigerator near the 
ice to become firm by cooling. When ready to serve, dip the mold in hot water for 
a moment, wipe it and invert it on a very cold platter, lift off the mold and send 
the pudding to the table. 

Mrs. C. C. Story, 5207 Smart Ave, Kansas City, Mo. 



86 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

ICELAND MOSS BLANC MANGE 

1 tbsp. sea moss farina. Y2 c sugar. 

1 qt. milk. vanilla or lemon to taste. 

Put the milk in a double boiler over hot water and shake the sea moss in very 
slowly. Stir well, add sugar, and stir occasionally for twenty minutes. Flavor 
with one-half teaspoonful vanilla and strain into cups. When cool, set on ice in 
refrigerator and serve cold with rich cream or with some fruit sauce. (3^ of 
this recipe will make four small cups of this). This is an excellent dish for invalids 
and those who have indigestion. 

Mrs. E. W. Buckingham, 1003 Rivermont Ave., Lynchburg, Va. 

IMPERIAL RICE PUDDING 

Wash one-half cupful rice. Put on to boil in cold water. Let boil five min- 
utes. Drain rice. Heat one pint of milk and cook the rice in this until done. 

Soak one-half box gelatine in one-half cupful cold water for thirty minutes. 
Add one-fourth cupful hot milk. Strain into the hot rice. Add one cupful sugar, 
one-half teaspoonful salt and one teaspoonful vanilla. 

Stand on ice or in refrigerator until firm. Then add one pint whipped cream. 
Put in mold and stand on ice in refrigerator for three hours. 

Can be made the day before using. Serve with canned apricots or any other 
tart fruit. 

Mrs. H. R. Ball, 401 N. Washington St., Valparaiso, Ind. 

JUNKET WITH FRESH BERRIES 

Put one junket tablet and one tablespoon of cold water into a cup and 
crush with a spoon to dissolve thoroughly. Take one quart of pure milk and 
cook until lukewarm, add three tablespoons sugar and one teaspoon vanilla, or 
more according to taste. Add the dissolved junket tablet to the lukewarm milk 
and stir it quickly for a moment. Pour at once into junket glasses and let stand 
in a warm room until firm (from five to fifteen minutes). Remove carefully, 
without jarring, to the refrigerator. When just ready to serve, fill with fresh, ripe 
berries, dusted with powdered sugar, and then heap over this whipped cream, 
place a berry on top of each. This is very easily prepared and makes a delicious 
dessert. 

Mrs. Alma L. Beam, 96 Copley Ave., Arlington, Md. 

LEMON MIST 

3 lemons. IH c. sugar. 

% c. cornstarch. 3 eggs. 

3 c. boiling water. 
Thinly pare lemons, pour boiling water on rind and let stand fifteen minutes. 
Mix cornstarch and sugar, add the rind, water and cook five minutes, stirring 
constantly, then continue cooking over boiling water for fifteen minutes. Mix 
yolks of eggs and lemon juice, and cook slightly, beat egg whites stiffly and fold 
one into the other, and set in refrigerator to cool. 

Mrs. Fred Sparling, 2404 West Grand Blvd., Detroit, Mich. 

LE ROI LEMON PIE 

3 eggs. 1 tbsp. butter. 

% c. granulated sugar. 
Juice and grated peel of a lemon. Bake with one crust. Cream the butter 
and sugar, stir in the beaten yolks, the lemon, and bake. Make a meringue of 
the whites beaten stiff with three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and a little 
rose water. When the pie is done take from the oven long enough to spread 
the meringue over and set back for a few minutes until a delicate brown. Eat 
when cold. This makes a good sized pie. 

Mrs. Jennie B. Cherry, 92 Transit St., Woonsocket, R. I. 

LEMON SPONGE PIE 

2 eggs. 1 tbsp. butter. 

1 large lemon. 1 tbsp. flour. 

1 c. sugar. 1 c. milk. 

Beat yolks of eggs until thick and creamy, add juice and rind of lemon, 
sugar, flour, and butter, beat well and add milk. Beat egg whites very stiff and 
stir in last. Bake in one crust in a moderate oven until firm. 

Mrs. Harold W. Speakman, R. F. D. No. 1, Woonsocket, R. I. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 87 

MACAROON WHIP 

Soak one-fourth cupful gelatine in one-fourth cupful water. Grate or crum- 
ble one fourth pound of macaroons. Cut very fine one dozen candied cherries, 
stand the gelatine over hot water until it is dissolved. Then add to it one cupful 
very heavy cream with one-half cupful powdered sugar, two tablespoonfuls of 
sherry and a few drops of almond extract. Watch closely as soon as it shows 
signs of thickening, put into it the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs. Beat the 
whole mixture until it is a solid froth, then lightly add the macaroon crumbs and 
half the cherries. Turn into a serving dish and sprinkle the rest of the cherries 
over the top. Keep very cold in refrigerator until ready to serve. 

Mrs. B. H. Spangenberg, Box 334, Toms River, N. J. 

MARSHMALLOW AND FRUIT DESSERT 

3^ c. candied cherries. 1 c. whipping cream. 

J^ c. sliced pineapple cut. 3 tbsp. confectioner's sugar. 

)/2 lb. marshmallows. ^ tsp. vanilla. 

^2 c- pecan or walnut meats. 
Put candied cherries, cut in quarters, and sliced pineapple cut in small cubes 
and one-half pound of marshmallows cut in quarters in one granite lined pan. 
Whip the chilled cream, add sugar and vanilla. Put ingredients together, adding 
nut meats and serve immediately. 

Mrs. H. M. Aune, Redwood Falls, Minn. 

MARSHMALLOW CREAM 

Beat one pint of whipping cream stiif and one-fourth pound of fresh marsh- 
mallows cut in two. Stir in and set in refrigerator from three to six hours as 
convenient. Serve this over any fresh fruit, as strawberries or pineapple, pears 
or peaches. A pretty and very satisfactory summer dessert. Can be prepared 
early in the morning and set in refrigerator all day. 

Frances B. Kirby, Heron Lake, Minn. 

MARSHMALLOW PUDDING 

1 c. sugar. 2 egg whites. i 

J^ c. water. }/^ c. candied cherries. 

1 tbsp. gelatine. 1 c. nut meats. 

2 c. whipped cream. 2 c. marshmallows. 

Cook sugar and water until syrup hairs and pour gradually upon beaten egg 
whites, stirring constantly. Add dissolved gelatine, cool slightly. Add other 
ingredients. Serve when cold and firm. 

Ethel L. Phelps, Lost Nation, Iowa. 

MARSHMALLOW PUDDING 

Soak one tablespoonful of gelatine in one-half cup of cold water for thirty 
minutes. Beat the whites of two eggs until stiflF and add to them one cupful of 
sugar. Fill up the cup containing the gelatine with hot water, dissolve over hot 
water. Cool slightly and when it begins to jell, beat in the egg whites and 
sugar mixture. Beat the mixture together for five minutes. Then add one tea- 
spoonful vanilla extract, a few chopped candied cherries and pineapple. 

Place in a mold and serve when cold. 

Gladys J. Partelow, 79 Rawson Road, Wollaston, Mass. 

MARSHMALLOW PUDDING 

}/2 pt. whipping cream. 1 small can grated pineapple. 

Yl c. white sugar. 10 cts. marshmallows cut up 

1 pgk. lemon jello. 

Take off the juice from pineapple and add cold water enough to make 
cupful, put it on fire and just heat to boiling point, remove and add one package 
lemon jello, and set aside to cool and jell, and while it is beginning to jell, whip 
up one-half pint of cream, and add one-half cup of sugar, the pineapple, the jello 
and the marshmallows which have been cut up fine with scissors. Beat all to- 
gether slightly and put in glasses with whipped cream on top and a cherry on top 
of cream. Place in refrigerator. 

Mrs. Roy C. Woodvv^ard, 307 W. Winona St., Austin, Minn. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



MARSHMALLOW RIBBON PUDDING 

Add one-half cupful sugar to the whites of three eggs, beaten very stiff, beat. 
Soak one-fourth lb. box of gelatine in one-half cupful cold water. When dissolved, 
pour over the whites and beat. Divide eggs into three parts, then beat very stiff. 
Make one part chocolate, using one tablespoonful of bitter chocolate, melted over 
boiling water. One part is left white, to which cocoanut may be added. The 
third part is pink, using strawberry juice. One part is allowed to form in the 
dish before the next layer is added. Serve with whipped cream. 

Very delicious cold dessert. Very pretty also on the dish in three colors. 
Mrs. J. R, John, 323 E. Eleventh St., Davenport, Iowa. 

MARSHMALLOW WHIP 

J^ box candied cherries. 34 lb. marshmallows. 

3^ glass whiskey. 3^ pt. double cream. 

Y2 c. English walnuts. 

Whip cream stiif, add enough sugar to sweeten. Soak cherries two hours in 
the whiskey. Cut marshmellows into quarters with scissors. Then fold all into 
the cream. If all the whiskey is not absorbed by the cherries, add what is left. 
Be sure to use only candied cherries. 

MOCK CHERRY PIE 

1 c. chopped raisins. 1 c. water. 

2 c. chopped cranberries. 1 c. sugar. 

1 tbsp. flour. 
Mix ingredients and bake in two crusts. 

Mrs. C. C. Mitchell, 500 W. Edward St., Springfield, III. 

MOCK PRESSED CHICKEN 

2 lbs. veal. 1 lb. pork. 

Stew until tender, seasoned to taste with salt and pepper. 

When cold, put through the meat grinder, and add one cupful of the liquor 
in which it was cooked, one small stalk of celery cut up fine, and one cupful of 
bread crumbs. Pack in a mould, and chill thoroughly. 

Mrs. S. R. Williams, 260 Oak St., Oberlin, Ohio. 

NEVER-FAIL PIE CRUST 

13^ c. flour (unsifted). 2,^ c. lard. 

1 scant tsp. salt. 3^ c. ice cold water. 

Mix dry ingredients, stir in lard with silver fork. Handle as little as pos- 
sible. Place in ice box for six hours before using. 

CUSTARD FILLING 

1 pt. milk. 1 tsp. vanilla. 

3^ c. sugar. 2 egg yolks. 

3^ c. flour. 1 bottle whipping cream. 

13^ tbsp. butter. 3^ c. pecan meats. 

Heat three-quarters of milk and one-half of sugar in double boiler. Mix 
one-quarter cup of milk and one-half cup sugar, beaten yolks of eggs, flour, pinch 
salt with softened butter then stir into hot milk, cook fifteen minutes, stirring 
all the time to keep smooth. When cool stir in one-half teaspoon vanilla. 

This filling must be made day before using and put in ice box, keep covered. 

Bake crust first, then add the filling. 

Put nuts through meat chopper, sprinkle over top, then spread with whipped 
cream slightly sweetened. The cream to whip well must be thoroughly chilled 
by setting in ice box. The bowl in which cream is whipped, and beater should 
be put in ice box an hour before using. 

Mrs. Charles H. Gage, Jr., 5451 Woodlawn Ave., Care of 0. H. 

Greely, Chicago, III. 

ORANGE AMBROSIA 

10 oranges cut in small pieces. 

4 sliced bananas. 
Yl lb. white grapes, take out seeds and cut in halves or quarters. 

1 small can sliced pineapple cut in small pieces. 
Y2 dozen English walnuts. 

1 c. sugar. 

Serve in orange cups. Use seedless oranges and cut off the blossom end. 
Irene Knight, 1121 N. College St., Decatur, III. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 89 



ORANGE CHARLETTE 

}4 box of gelatine, or 3 tbsp. lemon juice. 

l}4 tbsp. granulated gelatine. 1 c. orange juice and pulp. 

J^ c. cold water. Whites of 3 eggs. 

1 c. sugar. _ Whip 2 c. of cream. 

Soak gelatine in cold water, dissolve in boiling water, strain and add sugar, 
lemon juice and orange juice and pulp. Chill in pan of cold water, when quite 
thick beat with wire spoon or whisk until thin, add whites of eggs beaten stiff and 
fold in cream, line a mould with sections of oranges, turn in mixture, smooth evenly 
and chill. 

Agnes Herenh, Woonsocket, R. I. 

ORANGE CUSTARD 

Arrange slices of sweet oranges in a glass dish, pour over them cool boiled 
custard. Put in refrigerator and chill and then cover with meringue. 

MERINGUE 

Whites 2 eggs. l^ tbsp. juice or 

2 tbsp. powdered sugar. i^ tbsp. vanilla. 

Beat whites until stiff, add sugar gradually and continue beating, then add 
flavoring. 

Edna Pearl Wert, 510 W. High St., Elkhart, Ind. 

ORANGE PUDDING 

1 c. sugar. Juice 4 large oranges. 
l}4 c. butter. Grated rind 2 oranges. 

" eggs. 2 c. stale sponge cake crumbs. 

Cream the sugar and butter together, add the beaten yolks of six eggs and 
the beaten whites of four. Add the orange juice and rind. Cook in double 
boiler until about as thick as honey. Put a cupful of the mixture aside for sauce. 

Pour the rest of the mixture over the cake crumbs, put in baking pan and 
cover with meringue made of the two egg whites and one tablespoonful sugar. 
Set in oven to brown. Set aside to cool, then put sauce and pudding in refrig- 
erator. Serve when well chilled. 

Mrs. H. S. Carmichael, Buckner, Mo. 

PARADISE PUDDING 

Fill a border mold with cherry gelatine, using the juice of preserved cher- 
ries, which gives a beautiful color. The mold is set in refrigerator. Then whip 
one-half pint of cream to which has been added one quarter of an ounce of gelatine 
soaked in a little cream and dissolved over hot water. When the cream is 
whipped solid, add one ounce of preserved ginger, one ounce of preserved cherries, 
one ounce of citron or angelica and one ounce of preserved peaches or apricots 
are stirred in, the ginger and the citron or angelica are cut fine. This cream is 
set away to get thoroughlly chilled in refrigerator. Just before serving time, the 
jelly is carefully turned out on a glass dish, the cream piled up in the center. 

To be a success this dessert must be very cold. 

Mrs. M. J. Friedman, 704 N. 5th St., Springfield, III. 

PARADISE DAINTY 

2 c. seeded raisins. l.-^ c. pecans chopped fine. 

4 oranges minced. 1 small can grated pineapple. 

3 mellow apples minced. 1 cocoanut, grated. 
K c. English walnuts chopped. l}^ c. sugar. 

Mix all thoroughly and chill. Then serve in sherbet cups. 

Mrs. E. S. Turner, 60 Elm St., Covington, Tenn. 

PEANUT DESSERT 

1 c. of brown sugar. 1 tbsp. flour. 

1 tbsp. butter. Yolks of 3 eggs. 

1 c. hot water. 
Put in double boiler and when it thickens add the whites of three eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth and one cup of chopped peanuts. Set on ice until ready 
to serve. 

Mrs. W. H. Lawrence, Brownsdale, Minn. 



90 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



PEACH CREAM 

Take two quarts peaches, pare, cut in two, and sprinkle lightly with sugar. 
Set quart milk over hot water, after it has stood for two hours with one large 
spoon of tapioca soaking in it. When it comes to a boil, add yolks of two eggs, 
two spoonfuls sugar, pinch of salt. Stir well, and when cooked pour over peaches. 
Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth with two tablespoonfuls of sugar,, 
spread over top. Serve cold. Mrs. Phil Kiley, Savanna, III. 

PEACH CUSTARD 

Pare and rub through a colander enough ripe juicy peaches to make one 
pint of pulp, add the beaten yolks of three eggs, one cupful of cream, sweeten to 
taste. Bake very slowly until done. Cover with a meringue made by whipping 
the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth with three tablespoonfuls of blanched 
almonds chopped very fine. Put on ice. Serve very cold. 

Mrs. C. L. O'Kell, 233 Fuller St., St. Paul, Minn. 



PERFECTION PUDDING 

1 lb. cocoanut macaroons. 1 tsp. vanilla. 

1 c. preserved strawberries (fruit and juice). 
3^ envelope gelatine. * 1 qt. cream. 

J^ c. cold water. Yi c. sugar. 

^2 c. boiling water. 
Soak the gelatine in cold water five minutes and dissolve in boiling water. 
Crush the macaroons, add strawberry fruit and juice, cream, sugar and vanilla. 
Mix with gelatine when it begins to jell. Turn into mold and set in refrigerator. 
It is better when a day old, provided it is kept thoroughly chilled all the time. 
Miss Lou DoBSON, P. O. Box 301, Tekoa, Wash. 



PINEAPPLE CREAM 

2 c. milk. Few grains of salt. 
3^ c. cornstarch. 3 tbsp. sugar. 

Whites of 2 eggs. 4 tbsp. finely chopped pineapple. 

Fill a mold with cold water. Scald milk in double boiler. Mix cornstarch 
and sugar with enough cold milk to make a paste. 

Pour the hot milk over this and return to the double boiler. Cook thirty 
minutes, stirring all the time until thick and occasionally afterwards. Remove 
from the fire and fold in lightly the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff and the finely 
chopped pineapple. Pour into individual molds that have been wet in 
cold water and set in refrigerator until thoroughly chilled. Will keep well thirty- 
six to forty-eight hours. Serve very cold with custard sauce. 

PINEAPPLE DELIGHT 

1 c. chopped pineapple. % c. sugar. 

3 tbsp. gelatine, soak in 1 c. whipped cream. 

J4 c. cold water. 2 c. boiling water or apple juice. 

2 tbsp. rice. 1 pinch salt. 

Few preserved cherries. 
Boil rice until very soft, then drain it. Soak gelatine in cold water dissolved 
in the boiling water, then add sugar and rice. Cool slightly, and add salt, pine- 
apple and the whipped cream. Cool thoroughly in refrigerator and serve in dainty 
glasses with a cherry on top of each. 

Mrs. Frank W. Biggs, 3017 E. 27th St., Kansas City, Mo. 



PINEAPPLE DESSERT 

Dissolve instantly one tablespoonful of minute gelatine in one cupful boiling 
water. Add one cupful sugar and juice of pineapple to make one pint. Cut up 
pineapple in cubes and add to gelatine as soon as it sets a little. Serve with plain 
or whipped cream. 

Pineapple which comes in cans may be used and is very nice. Nuts and 
candied cherries may be added. 

Mrs. H. W. Marden, 22 Portland St., Lynn, Mass. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 91 



PINEAPPLE DREAMS 

1 can sliced pineapple. M lb. marshmallows. 

14 lb. English walnuts. 
Chip the walnuts, split marshmallows, cut pineapple in small pieces. Alter- 
nate layers of pineapple and marshmallows and sprinkle walnuts between. Chill 
in refrigerator one to five hours. Dish and cover with whipped cream. 

Mrs. W. a. Mann, R. 1, Fairfax, Mo. 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING 

Soak one box gelatine in one cupful cold water, dissolve in two cupfuls of hot 
water Set this to cool and when it begins to jell, pour it gradually into one quart 
of cream, beating until it stiffens. Then add the juice of two lemons and one pint 
of shredded pineapple. Place in your mold a small amount of colored gelatine 
and then pour in the gelatine cream and place to cool. When you are prepared 
to serve pudding, take it from the refrigerator and hold the mold in a pan of warm 
water for a few moments and it will be easier and the pudding will come out nicer. 
Miss Lurene Wessel, 314 N. Motley St., Redfield, S. D. 

PINEAPPLE SALAD 

6 slices pineapple. 1 c. whipping cream. 

2 c. marshmallows. 2 tbsp. sugar. 

1 c. blanched almonds. Vs tsp. mustard. 

3 tbsp. chopped pimentoes. H tsp. salt. 

1 tbsp. lemon juice. 
Cut the pineapple in cubes and drain. Cut the marshmallows in small pieces 
with shears. Blanch almonds and cut in small pieces. Mix dry ingredients and 
add lightly to the cream that has been whipped. Add lemon juice. Toss pine- 
apple, marshmallows, and nuts together lightly. Add cream and pimentoes. 
Blend carefully. Serve on lettuce or with a border of shredded lettuce. 

Ethel L. Phelps, Lost Nation, Iowa 

PINEAPPLE SALAD 

Place one slice of pineapple on crisp lettuce leaves shredded, for each person, 
fill hole in pineapple with pecans, halved, sprinkled grated cheese over all and 
place spoonful of salad dressing, which has been thinned with whipped cream, on 

top. Serve very cold. „ ,^, ^ xt tvt 

Mrs. Dell Jackson, Box 191, Carlsbad, New Mexico. 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING 

}4 c. of minute tapioca. 1 qt. of water. 

Cook until tapioca is clear, then add, one-half teaspoonful salt, three-quarter 
cup of granulated sugar, one small can of grated pineapple, cook a few minutes 
longer. Set on ice until cold and serve with whipped cream. 

Anne R. Cloyd, 337 N. Church St., Decatur, III. 

PINEAPPLE SOUFFLE 

1 can pineapple. M c. sugar. 

}4 box Knox acidulated gelatine. 1 pt. whipped cream. 

10 cts. blanched almonds. 
Dissolve gelatine to which has been added one-quarter teaspoon concen- 
trated fruit juice contained in package in one-half pint pineapple juice ten minutes, 
add three-quarter pint boiling water, sugar, and stir until dissolved, heat slightly 
if it is not, cut fruit in small pieces and add when cool. _ As soon as it begins to 
thicken add whipped cream and almonds cut fine. Stir well and place in re- 
frigerator to set. When serving cut in squares, put a little whipped cream on 
the top with a maraschino cherry. 

Mrs. W. S. Simms, 1218 Lewis, Charleston, W. Va. 

PRUNE PIE WITH WHIPPED CREAM 

Bake crust and cool. Thoroughly cook and cool four tablespoonfuls corn- 
starch in one cupful of milk or water. Add the yolk of one egg, pinch of salt. 
Cook prunes, remove stones. After removing the stones, take one cupful of the 
prunes, mash and add to the cornstarch mixture and fill into crust. Cover with 
meringue or whipped cream. 

Mrs. G. T. Buckley, 18 Martha St., Binghamton, N. Y. 



92 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

PRUNE SURPRISE 

Take one pound prunes and soak over night. Then boil in same water until 
tender. When finished, there should be a quart of juice. If not, add a little 
water, then soak one-half package of gelatine in one-fourth cupful of cold water 
and when soaked, add to hot prune juice to which one cupful of sugar has been 
added. 

Stone the prunes and stuff half with walnut meats and half with stoned dates. 
When gelatine is cool, add prunes and set in refrigerator until solid and chilled 
through. Then serve with cream. This is an excellent luncheon dish. 

Mrs. William Darst, Jr., Hotel St. Mark, Long Beach, Cal. 

PRUNE CREAM WHIP 

Soak one measuring cupful of crystal gelatine in one cupful cold water two 
minutes. Add one cupful boiling water, two cupfuls prune juice and stewed 
mashed prunes (omit juice if desired), the juice of two lemons, one cupful sugar. 
When mixture is almost solid, stir one pint of well whipped cream in slowly and 
set in fancy molds in refrigerator to mold. This is enough to serve eight persons. 
Mrs. E. D. Hass, 621 Harrison St., Davenport, Iowa. 

OUEEN PUDDING 

Line a lemon mould two inches deep with vanilla ice cream, have ready 
a pint of frozen peaches, fill these into the center and cover with ice cream, put 
on the lid, bind the edges with a strip of buttered cloth, pack and stand aside 
two hours, turn the pudding out carefully in center of large dish, dust with 
grated macaroons. Serve immediately. 

Mrs. Henry Artes, 2336 W. Fayette St., Baltimore, Md. 

RASPBERRY TAPIOCA 

1 c. tapioca. 1 qt. of raspberries. 

Sugar to taste. 
Wash the tapioca through several waters, then cover with cojd water, and 
soak over night. In the morning put it on the fire with one pint of boiling 
water, simmer slowly until the tapioca is clear. Wash the raspberries and stir 
them into the boiling tapioca, sweeten to taste. Take from the fire, turn into 
the dish in which they are to be served and stand on ice for several hours. Serve 
with sweetened cream which has been chilled. 

Mrs. W. E. Churn, 4103 Groveland Ave., W. Arlington, Md. 

RASPBERRY TAPIOCA JELLY 

2 c. cold water. H cupful minute tapioca. 
1 c, raspberry juice. 1 c. sugar. 

Juice of 2 lemons. 
Cook tapioca in water and berry juice until clear. Add sugar and lemon 
juice, let stand until cold and stiff like jelly. 

Clara Denton, 3 Grand St., Sidney, N. Y. 

RICE PUDDING, COLD 

13^ qt. boiling water. Vi c. white sugar. 

Yi c. rice. 2 tbsp. cornstarch. 

1 tsp. salt. H c. shredded cocoanut. 

Put salt and rice in boiling water, cook for twenty-five minutes. Strain off 
all the water, then bring water to boiling. Add cornstarch, mixed with the sugar, 
boil five minutes, and add shredded cocoanut. Put in refrigerator until thoroughly 
cold. Serve with whipped cream flavored with vanilla to taste. 

Mrs. Anna Hogan, R. 3, Eagle Lake, Minn. 

RICE PUDDING 

2 c. boiled rice. H c sugar. 

1 pt. milk. 2 tbsp. cornstarch. 

4 eggs. 1 tsp. lemon extract. 

1^ c. sugar. 
Beat the egg yolks. Mix the cornstarch with the milk. Add the yolks, 
sugar and cornstarch to the rice. Bake until set in a moderate oven. Beat the 
whites to a stiff froth with the remainder of the sugar. Spread over the top. Re- 
turn to the oven and brown. May be served warm or cold. 

Mrs. a. a. Winkley, Faribault, Minn. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 93 



RICE SURPRISE 

2 c. strawberries. 1 orange. 

Yl c. sugar. 1 banana. 

Yl c. thin cream. 3 slices canned pineapple. 

Yi c. heavy cream, whipped. 3 tbsp. pineapple juice. 

Add sugar and thin cream to rice while warm. When sufficiently cool, set 
in refrigerator to chill. About half an hour before serving time, add sliced 
fruits and pineapple juice. Mix all together and set back in refrigerator. Just 
before serving, cover with whipped sweetened cream. 

Mrs. E. W. Smith, Care K. T. O. Co., Maricopa, Cal. 

RHUBARB CREAM 

Clean and cut rhubarb into small pieces, using twelve or fifteen stalks. Put 
it in a saucepan with the grated peel of a lemon, two cloves, a piece of cinnamon, 
sweeten to taste. Cook slowly until reduced to a marmalade, put it through a 
sieve and add to it a pint of cream. Beat thoroughly. Chill in refrigerator 
and serve. 

Amelia Bratton, 1709 W. 104th Place, Chicago, III. 

RHUBARB MOLD 

Wash and cut up in small pieces nine stalks of rhubarb and cook it with a very 
little water, a little lemon peel and one cupful of sugar until soft. Then pass it 
through a sieve and color it with a few drops of rose coloring. Measure the juice 
and to each pint allow one-third|cupful of cornstarch. Mix the cornstarch to a smooth 
paste with a little cold water, let the rhubarb juice come to a boil, stir in the corn- 
starch and let it boil for five minutes. Then cook in a double boiler fifteen min- 
utes, stirring constantly. Pour it into a wetted mold, and set in refrigerator to 
harden. To serve, turn it out carefully on a shallow glass dish and surround with 
a wreath of sweetened whipped cream. This is a very refreshing dessert and is 
easily made. Everyone can make it as it is cheap and the rose coloring and 
the lemon peel may be left out if it is not on hand. 

Lillian Stahl, Springfield, Minn. 

RHUBARB PUDDING 

1 c. sugar. 2 eggs. 

1 c. sweet milk. 1 tsp. soda. 

3 c. flour. 2 tsp. cream of tartar. 

Y tsp. lemon extract. 
Put one quart of finely cut rhubarb in baking dish. Add one cup of sugar, 
then pour batter over all and bake slowly. To be served cold. 

Marie Hanson, R. 9, Box 24, Red Wing, Minn. 

RHUBARB STEWED WITH SULTANA RAISINS 

Cut enough rhubarb in one-half inch pieces to make three cupfuls. Wash 
in cold water. Pick over one-half cupful Sultana raisins, removing the stems. 
Add one and one-fourth cupfuls boiling water and simmer slowly until water is 
reduced to one-fourth cupful. Then add rhubarb to raisins with three or four 
thin slices of lemon (discarding the seeds) and one and one-half cupfuls sugar. 
Simmer slowly, closely covered until rhubarb is tender. Chill in refrigerator 
and serve cold. Use the early spring rhubarb. 

Mrs. R. F. Benton, 3323 Park Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 

RUM PUDDING 

Soak one package of gelatine in one-half cup of water, dissolve over hot water. 
Then to one pint of sweet milk add one cupful of granulated sugar and let come 
to a boil. Beat one egg until light and add to it the milk and sugar, gelatine and 
enough rum to flavor (usually one-third cupful). . 

Place mixture in bowl and set in refrigerator to cool, when the mixture begins 
to thicken, beat into it one pint of cream whipped stiff. When this begins to 
stiflten, pour into earthenware pan or platter (pan or platter must be about twenty 
by fourteen inches). Set in refrigerator until ready to serve. Serve in three inch 
squares and serve with black cherries. 

Mrs. W. J. Orlob, Box 471, St. Anthony, Idaho. 



94 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

ROMAN SPONGE 

Dissolve one package of cherry Jell-0 in one pint of boiling water. When 
cold, whip to consistency of whipped cream, then add one cup of whipped cream, 
one-half dozen macaroons crushed and a handful of chopped nuts. Set in the 
ice chest to harden. Garnish with cherries and serve with whipped cream. 
Irma Lesem, 5613 Calumet Ave., Chicago, III. 

SAGO CREAM WITH STRAWBERRY SAUCE 

Cook one-half cup Sago in one pint milk until clear, add a pinch of salt and 
three tablespoonfuls sugar. Beat the whites of three eggs, add to the mixture 
and cook two minutes Flavor, and when cool add a cup of whipped cream. 
Pour into a mould and set on ice. 

Crush a pint of berries, add a cup of sugar. Let stand an hour or so and 
pour over the Sago cream. 

Mrs. L. B. Adair, Lisbon, N. D. 

SIMPLE FRUIT PUDDING 

Stew currants or any small fruits, fresh or dried, with sugar to taste and pour 
hot over thin buttered slices of baker's bread with crust cut off, makingalternate 
layers of fruit and bread and having a thick layer of fruit for the last. 

Put on top a plate and bake in a moderate oven, and when cool set on ice in 
refrigerator. Serve with sifted sugar or cream and sugar. 

Margaret Adams, 1031 Fremont St., Belvidere, III. 

SNOW PUDDING 

Pour one cupful of cold water over one-half box of gelatine. When soaked, 
dissolve in one cupful boiling water. Add two cupfuls white sugar and juice of 
three lemons. Stir until sugar is dissolved. Stand on ice in refrigerator or where 
it is cold until it begins to set, beat until frothy then add the well beaten whites of 
three eggs. Serve cold with whipped cream or custard sauce. 

CUSTARD SAUCE 

Beat yolks of three eggs, add one cupful milk and three tablespoonfuls of 
white sugar. Cook in double boiler until it becomes as heavy as cream. Take 
off stove immediately. Add one teaspoonful vanilla. Chill before serving on 
above pudding. 

Mrs. H. R. Ball, 401 N. Washington St., Valparaiso, Ind. 

SOUR CREAM PIE 

1 c. sour cream. 1 tsp. cinnamon. 

1 c. sugar. Yi, tsp. allspice. 

1 c. raisins chopped fine. M tsp. cloves. 

2 eggs. H tsp. salt. 
Beat all together and bake with two crusts. 

Mrs. G. T. Buckley, 18 Martha St., Binghamton, N. Y. 

SPANISH FRUIT PUDDING 

1 c. granulated sugar. Pinch of cinnamon. 

1 tbsp. butter. Pinch of nutmeg. 

6 tbsp. bread crumbs. 3 eggs beaten separately. 

1 c. dates, stoned and chopped. Pinch of salt. 

1 c. English walnuts, chopped. Whipped cream. 

Mix well together sugar and butter. Add bread crumbs, dates, walnuts, 
cinnamon and nutmeg. Add eggs beaten separately and a pinch of salt. Mix all 
thoroughly. Bake in a moderately hot oven twenty minutes. Cut in squares 
and serve with whipped cream. It is very fine. This amount serves eight per- 
sons. After cream is whipped, set in refrigerator until ready to serve. 

Anna M. Branagan, 2043 Twelfth St. Blvd., Chicago, III. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 95 

STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE 

Make a blanc mange as follows: Two cupfuls milk, one-third cupful corn- 
starch, one beaten egg, one-fourth cupful sugar. Let one and one-half cupfuls of 
milk scald in double boiler. Stir the cornstarch and one-half cupful cold milk to 
a smooth paste and stir into the hot milk, stirring constantly. Cover and cook 
slowly fifteen minutes. Beat the egg until very light, stir in sugar and add to the 
hot cornstarch mixture. Let cook three minutes until set. Made in this way 
the cornstarch is thoroughly cooked without overcooking the egg. Fill a mold 
with alternate layers of slices of bread, covered with a thin layer of crushed and 
sweetened strawberries, forming a dark layer, then the blanc mange forming a 
light layer. Set in refrigerator until firm and thoroughly chilled. When about 
to serve, cut in slices and place a spoonful of whipped cream on top. 

Clara Van Loon, 459 Murray Ave., Milwaukee, Wis. 



STRAWBERRY DREAM 

Mash and sugar enough strawberries to serve your guests. Add one-half 
their measure of marshmallows cut in small dices. Chill in refrigerator. Serve 
in sherbet glasses with whipped cream. Add English walnut meats. 

Mrs. T. W. Maker, 2125 Sixteenth St., Moline, III. 



STRAWBERRY FLOAT 

1 c. strawberries. 3^ c. sugar. 

3 egg whites 
Wash, hull and sweeten the berries to taste, set them into refrigerator to 
get cold. Rub them through a colander. Beat the egg whites stiff, add the 
berries and sugar, and beat together until stiff enough to hold its shape. Serve 
plain or with cream. 

Stella Raines, 2002 Summit St., Kansas City, Mo. 



STRAWBERRY PIE 

Bake an open pie crust and when cool fill with strawberries. Empty one 
package of strawberry jello in a bowl, add one tablespoonful of sugar and pour 
over one pint of boiling water. Allow this to cool and as it begins to thicken 
pour it over the berries. Put the pie in the refrigerator till thoroughly chilled. 
Just before serving spread whipped cream over it and place a few choice berries 
on top. This is a delicious cold dessert. 

Mrs. G. H. Shellhamer, Geneseo, III. 



STRAWBERRY SPONGE 

Soak one-half box of gelatine in one-half cupful of water about one-half hour. 
Then pour into this one pint of boiling water, add one cupful sugar, also one pint 
strawbberry juice. Stir well, set on ice in refrigerator, stir occasionally. After 
it is very cold, add the stiffly beaten whites of four eggs. Turn into glass dish. 
Set on ice in refrigerator until firm. 

Mrs. a. Meyers, 1521 S. Eighth St., Springfield, III. 



SUET PUDDING 

1 c. finely chopped suet. 1 tsp. soda. 

1 c. molasses. IJ/^ tsp. salt. 

1 c. milk. Yl tsp. ginger. 

3 c. flour. J^ tsp. cloves. 

1 c. finely chopped raisins Yl tsp. nutmeg, 

(sprinkle with flour). 1 tsp. cinnamon. 

1 c. finely chopped English walnuts (not too fine.) 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add molasses and milk to suet. (It is a good 
plan to heat mixing dish to soften suet). Combine mixtures. Turn into buttered 
mold. Cover and steam three hours. 

Serve with brandy sauce or any good pudding sauce. This is a fine pudding. 
Mrs. J. H. Eraser, 2709 Garfield, Kansas City, Mo. 



96 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



SUMMER DELIGHT 

Requires no cooking. 
As much as you like of: 

Marshmallows, pulled in small pieces. 
Dates. 

Chopped walnuts. 
Whipped cream. 
Serve ice cold with Maraschino cherry topping the whipped cream. Sherbet 
glasses may be used to advantage. 

Mrs. R. a. Waldron, R. F. D. No. 1, Marion, Mass. 

SUMMER QUEEN 

Remove the heart of a large sweet watermelon in rounding spoonfuls. Chill 
thoroughly in refrigerator. Serve in frosted glass dishes that have been chilled 
in refrigerator, with French dressing kept ready mixed in a jar or a bottle and 
saved in refrigerator. 

Mrs. L. R. Fink, 105 Rampart St., Palestine, Texas. 

SUPPER DESSERT ON FARM 

1 qt. milk. 3^ c. sugar. 

3 eggs. 1 tsp. vanilla. 

1 tbsp. cornstarch. 
Heat milk in double boiler, beat yolks of eggs to cream with sugar and corn- 
starch. Add to hot milk when thick aS syrup, stir into whites of eggs beaten to 
stiff froth. Chill thoroughly. Serve with whipped cream if desired. 

Mrs. Guy R. Bell, Potter, Kan. 

TAPICOA CUSTARD 

1 qt. milk. 4 tbsp. minute tapioca. 

1 c. sugar. 4 eggs. 

1 tsp. butter. Flavoring. 

Add tapioca to the milk and heat to the boiling point. Mix sugar, butter 
and eggs, saving out the whites of two. Add to the heated milk and cook until 
thick, remove from the fire. Add flavoring and fold in the beaten whites. Serve 
cold. Mrs. Kiley, Savanna, III. 

TRILBY CREAM 

IJ^ c. pineapple (canned). 3 c. marshmallows. 

1 c. sweet whipping cream. 

Cut the slices of pineapple into small pieces, until there are one and one-half 
cupfuls. Then cut up marshmallows to the amount of three cupfuls and mix 
thoroughly. 

Whip one cupful of cream and sweeten to taste. Then stir together. Pile 
lightly into pretty individual glasses. Garnish with whole marshmallows or 
cherries if preferred and set glasses in refrigerator. Serve when very cold with 
wafers or cake. Mrs. R. L. Sargent, Dresser Junction, Wis. 

TURKISH DELIGHT 

Y2 pt. whipping cream. Y2 tsp. vanilla. 

1 doz. stale macaroons. 2 tbsp. sherry wine. 

1 level tbsp. gelatine. 
Whip cream, sweeten and add vanilla. Roll out and sift macaroons and add 
to cream. Soak gelatine with a small portion of the red coloring in two table- 
spoonfuls of cold water. Let stand ten minutes, then set in hot water to dissolve. 
Add wine and let chill. When it begins to jell fold in the whipped cream. Pour 
in mold and let stand in refrigerator for four hours. Turn into dish, surround 
with whipped cream, sprinkle with chopped walnuts. 

Miss J. Jarvais, 701 Twenty-sixth Ave. N. E., Minneapolis, Minn. 

TUTTI FRUTTI DAINTY 

8 small sponge cakes. 
Cook together until thick the following: 

1 c. granulated sugar. Yi c. apple, cut in small pieces. 

1 c. water. 1 ring pineapple, candied 

Y, c. figs, cut in small pieces. or preserved. 

1 banana. Juice of 1 lemon. 

Serve cold over sponge cakes. Place whipped cream and cherry on top. 
Mrs. Claude B. Carhart, 553 Warren St., Hudson, N. Y. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 97 



WATERMELON DESSERT 

Take a ripe watermelon, put on ice in refrigerator until thoroughly cold, slice, 
remove seeds and cut any shape you prefer, size sufficient for mouthful. Put 
layer in glass dish, sprinkle with sugar, another layer with sugar until you fill 
your dish. Return to refrigerator until wanted for dessert. 

Mrs. Harry Teesdale, 207 Whittier St., Vandergrift, Pa. 



WHIPPED CREAM DESSERT 

Cook enough evaporated apples to make four cupfuls. Mix bread crumbs 
with apples as wanted. Add sugar, a little salt, and butter to mashed apples. 
When cool, add one pint of whipped cream, stir in slowly, to make a stiff mass. 
When ready to serve, decorate top of dessert with whipped cream. 

Cooked rice may be served in the same way. It is delicious set in refrig- 
erator to mold for two hours. 

Mrs. E. D. Hass, 621 Harrison St., Davenport, Iowa 



WHIPPED CREAM SUBSTITUTE 

Boil six tablespoons of sugar in two tablespoons of water three minutes. 
Soak one teaspoon of gelatine in one tablespoon of cold water till soft, dissolve 
in two tablespoons of boiling water. Add the syrup, gelatine and a small can of 
evaporated milk (or a scant half of a tall can) to an equal quantity of raw milk> 
Set in the refrigerator till firm. Serve with acid fruits, gelatine, etc. 

Mrs. Lucretia K. Hanson, 4008 7th St. N. W., Washington, D. C. 



98 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



Cocfetails! 



CANTALOUPE COCKTAIL 

Cantaloupe. White grapes. 

Ripe Peaches. Pineapple. 

Sherry or maraschino. Red cherries. 

Cut melon in balls with vegetable scoop, and fill a serving glass. Add one 
or two seeded white grapes, a small quantity of sliced ripe peaches and pineapple. 
Cover the whole with sherry or maraschino and place one cherry on top. This 
makes a tasty and very pretty cocktail. 

Miss Lou Dobson, P. O. Box 301, Tekoa, Wash. 

CANTALOUPE DELIGHT 

Use in hot weather in place of soup. 

Allow one-half cantaloupe to each person, remove seeds and put on ice. 
Cut up into small pieces one grapefruit, three oranges, four slices canned Hawaiian 
pineapple, one-half pound Malaga grapes, twelve maraschino cherries and a 
little wine, sugar to taste. Set away on ice to chill. When time to serve, fill 
each half cantaloupe with the fruit and garnish with maraschino cherries. Serve 
on plates with doilies. The fruit is much improved if prepared the day before 
using and kept in refrigerator as it gives the fruit juices a chance to thoroughly 
mix. 

Mrs. Bartow N. Ayres, 21 Spring St., Stamford, Conn. 

CHERRY COCKTAIL 

Stone ripe cherries, drain and set on ice. To each tablespoon of cherries 
add one tablespoon pineapple, cut in small pieces, add one tablespoon sugar, 
fill glasses and pour over juice that is drained from cherries. Serve ice cold. 

FRUIT COCKTAIL 

6 oranges, cut in pieces. 6 slices pineapple, cut in pieces. 

Y2 lb. Malaga grapes, cut. 
Mix all together. Set away to chill. Serve with cherry or two on top. 
Ola Thomas, 38 S. Fifth, Ironton, Ohio. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL SAUCE FOR 24 SMALL OYSTERS 

One tablespoonful each of vinegar, Worchestershire sauce, tomato catsup 
and horseradish, two tablespoonfuls lemon juice, one-fourth teaspoonful each 
salt and tabasco sauce. Mix thoroughly and bury the vessel containing it for 
one hour at least before serving. 

Cut grapefruit in half, remove the pulp, chill. Have the oysters very cold. 
Stir the oysters into the sauce. Add two tablespoonfuls of the grapefruit pulp 
chopped fine and turn into the halves, skin and serve these on a plate of cracked 
ice. 

Mrs. F. Shumway, 1235 N. Main St., Honesdale, Pa. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL 

Small blue points, or cherrystone oysters, one-half dozen to each cover. 
Chill thoroughly. 

For six covers: 

Mix three tablespoonfuls each of vinegar, grated horseradish and tomato 
catsup. 

Add six teaspoonfuls of lemon juice and a few drops of tabasco sauce. 

Have the dressing very cold. 

When ready to serve, put oysters in chilled glasses, pour sauce over, set 
each glass in service plate and serve with toasted crackers. 

Mrs. Geo. W. Austin, 2012 Penn St., St. Joseph, Mo. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 99 



OYSTER COCKTAIL 

One portion: 
6 oysters to one glass. 1 teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce. 

1 tablespoonful tomato catsup. 3 drops tabasco. 

Few drops lemon juice. 
Mix ingredients in bowl. Oysters must be chilled before serving. 

Mrs. Claude B. Carhart, 553 Warren St., Hudson, N. Y. 

MINT COCKTAIL 

Cut one can pineapple into small cubes. Remove pulp from three oranges 
and cut into small pieces. Break one-fourth pound after dinner mints into tiny 
pieces and mix ^yIth the fruit an hour before lunch, setting away in refrigerator 
berve in cocktail or sherbet glasses covered with crushed ice and powdered sugar 

Ihis is dehghtful for first course for dinner or luncheon and could be used 
tor dessert. 

Mrs. M. J. Friedman, 704 N. Fifth St., Springfield, III. 



STRAWBERRY COCKTAIL 

lasses, slice five or six strawberries, cc 
powdered sugar and shaved ice. Se: 

Mrs. J. R. John, 323 E. Eleventh St., Davenport, Iowa 



Into individual glasses, slice five or six strawberries, cover with juice of an 
orange, sprinkle with powdered sugar and shaved ice. Serve very cold This 
IS delicious. 



100 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



§m^t iHtxturesi 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

1 c. molasses. 1 c. cornmeal. 

2 c. sour milk. J^ c. flour. 

2 tsp. soda. 1 egg. 

3 tbsp. lard. Few grains of salt. 

2 c. graham flour. 1 c. chopped nuts, raisins, figs or 

dates (if desired). 
Steam two and one-half hours and bake slowly twenty minutes. This is 
excellent served hot. 

Mrs. C. H. Ulrich, 2114 Amie St., Sellings Grove, Pa. 

BREAD CAKE 

2 c. bread sponge. 2 tsp. cinnamon. 

J4 c. sour milk. 1 tsp. nutmeg. 

1 c. shortening, half lard, half butter. 3^ tsp. powdered cloves. 

2 c. sugar. ^^ 1 tsp. soda. 
^2 c. raisins. 2 eggs. 

2 c. flour. 
Beat shortening, sugar and spices to a cream. Then add bread sponge and 
beat well. Then add the raisins. Sift baking soda with the flour and add 
alternately with the milk. Add eggs last, well beaten (yolks and whites beaten 
together). Let rise to double its bulk in a shallow pan. Bake in a moderate 
oven. Let cake cool in pan. Can be baked in either loaf or layers. 

Mrs. Chas. A. Schroeder, 3922 Wabash Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 

BUTTERMILK DRY YEAST 

Use instead of hops, one pint of fresh buttermilk heated to boiling point. 
Stir in enough white cornmeal to make it like thick gruel. Heat it to boiling 
point, then take from the fire and let cool. When lukewarm, stir into this one 
cupful of good yeast or two and one-half yeast cakes. Let rise in a warm place, 
about two hours or until light. Thicken with white cornmeal and make into 
cakes to dry. Keep in refrigerator. 

Be sure to trj' this, but do not get it too hot while drying and do not let it 
sour. 

Mrs. C. a. Godbey, R. F. D. No. 2, Wathena, Kan. 

COLD STORAGE ROLLS FOR EVENING MEAL 

Parkerhouse rolls from the old original recipe. 

1 pt. milk, boiled and cooled. 

2 tbsp. butter. 

J^ c. fresh yeast or one cake compressed yeast mi.xed in a little milk. 

1 tbsp. sugar. 
Few grains salt. 

2 qts. sifted flour. 

Melt the butter in the warm milk, then add the yeast mixture, sugar, salt 
and flour. Mix rather soft and let it rise over night. In the morning add to this 
one-half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in one spoonful of water. Mix in enough 
flour to make the same stiffness as any biscuit dough. Roll out not more than 
one-quarter of an inch thick. 

Cut with a large round cutter, spread butter over the tops and fold one-half 
over the other. Place them a little apart in the pan so there will be room to rise. 
Let rise to double their bulk. Now place the pan in refrigerator and leave until 
time for the evening meal. Bake in a quick oven and you will have ready for 
"Father and the Boys" the best hot rolls. 

Only with a refrigerator can the rolls be kept to bake for the evening 
dinner, if kept at an ordinary temperature, the rolls would rise and sour 
long before they were wanted. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 101 

COLD STORAGE ROLLS FOR EVENING MEAL, Gont. 

This same plan can be used to keep a small portion of the bread dough, the 
dough to be rolled thin, cut in small pieces and fried in lard, the same as any 
doughnuts. These served hot with maple syrup make a dish fit for the best man 
in Uncle Sam's United States of America. 

Miss Emily A. Fuller, 409 W. Union St., Greenville, Mich. 



CORNFLAKE MUFFINS 

1 egg. (H tsp. salt. 

1 c. milk. Mix and sift < 1 c. flour. 

1 c. corn flakes. i 2 tsp. baking powder. 

Beat eggs, add milk, then the other ingredients. Beat well, then bake in 
hot oven twenty minutes. 

Mrs. Lulu C. Clifton, 331 E. Adams St., Jacksonville, Fla. 



GRAHAM NUT BREAD 

3 c. graham flour. 1 c. nut meats. 

Yi c. white flour. 1 tsp. salt. _ 

1 c. sugar. 2 tbsp. baking powder. 

lYi c. milk. 
Sift dry ingredients. Add nut meats and milk and mix the whole into a 
dough. Let stand thirty minutes in well greased baking pan, then bake about 
one hour. This will make two loaves. 

Edna Starofsky, 1402 Thirteenth St., Moline, III. 



LIQUID YEAST 

Boil two large or six small potatoes without peeling. Peel and mash them, 
pour over them boiling water or use the water they were boiled in, while hot. 
Put in one-half cupful sugar, two tablespoonfuls of salt. Dissolve a cake of 
yeast and add it to this mixture. It must be kept in a warm place for several 
hours until it works, after which it must be kept cool but not freeze. It must 
make about one-half gallon after it is mixed. Bread never fails made with this 
yeast, unless it gets too hot. 

Mrs. J. F. Brugh, R. F. D. No. 2, Troutville, Va. 



NUT BREAD 

IY2 c. white flour. Y2 tsp. salt. 

XYi tbsp. baking powder. ^ c. nuts chopped fine. 

Yi c. sugar. 1 egg well beaten. 

1 c. milk. 
Sift dry ingredients three or four times, add the nut meats, milk and well 
beaten egg. Drop mixture into a well greased bread pan, let stand twenty-five 
minutes and bake in a moderate hot oven. 



OATMEAL BREAD 

2Yi c. well cooked oatmeal. J^ c. sugar. 

Y2 c. molasses. Salt. 

13^ c. yeast sponge. 
Mix as for white bread, put right in pans. When raised, bake a little 
slower and a little longer than white bread, in moderate oven. This is very 
good. 

Mrs. Joseph Eglin, Sr., 630 W. N. Grand Ave., Springfield, III. 



102 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



PRETZELS 

1 c. scalded milk. 
4 yolks of eggs. 
3 whole eggs. 
% c. butter. 
4% c. flour or enough to make a soft dough that can be rolled out. 

1 c. sugar. 

2 yeast cakes. 

J^ tsp. lemon extract. 
1 tsp. salt. 
Cool milk, when lukewarm, add yeast cakes and when they are dissolved, 
add remaining ingredients (beating yolks and whites of eggs separately and very 
lightly). Let rise six hours (till light) then set in refrigerator over night. 
In morning, turn on floured board, roll in long rectangular piece one-fourth 
inch thick, spread with softened butter, fold from sides toward center to 
make three layers. Cut oif pieces three-fourths inch wide, cover and let rise. 
Then take each piece separately in hands and twist from ends in opposite direc- 
tions, coil and bring ends together at top of cake. Let rise in pans and bake 
twenty or thirty minutes in a moderate oven. Cool and brush over with con- 
fectioner's sugar, moistened with boiling water to spread and flavored with 
vanilla or lemon. 

Mrs. W. G. Francis, Austin, Nev. 



SOFT GINGER BREAD 

]/2 c- sugar. 

1 c. molasses (dark Karo). 
J^ c. butter or lard. 

1 tsp. each of ginger, cinnamon and cloves. 

1 tsp. soda dissolved in 1 c. boiling water. 
2J^ c. flour. 

2 well beaten eggs. 

Mix sugar and molasses and boiling water in which the soda has been dis- 
solved. Measure, mix and sift dry ingredients and combine mixtures, adding 
the beaten eggs last. Bake in a well greased tin. 

Mrs. J. W. Mitchell, 3825 Walnut, Kansas City, Mo. 



WHITE NUT BREAD 

3 c. white flour. 3 tbsp. sugar. 

1 c. nuts. 13^ c. sweet milk. 

1 tsp. salt. 3 tsp. baking powder. 

Make a stiff dough. Divide into three large baking powder cans. Let rise 
about fifteen minutes and bake slowly about one-half hour. 

Mrs. W. p. Bunyan, 4721 Euclid Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 103 

I i 

i 
i 

i i 



^antittitcljesi 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

Formerly a sandwich meant two slices of bread with meat between. Now 
the term sandwich is applied to many different kinds of incased dainties. 

The bread used for making sandwiches should be at least a day old, that it 
may be cut properly. The bread may be white or brown; ex., white, whole wheat, 
rye, oatmeal or steamed brown bread. 

The butter should be creamed, so that it may be spread easily. Cream the 
butter with a wooden spoon. 

A very sharp knife should be used, so that the slices may be cut as thinly and 
evenly as possible. 

Cut end slice from bread. Spread end of loaf with butter. Cut slice. Re- 
peat, until the required number of slices have been cut. 

Spread half the number of slices with the mixture used for filling; cover with 
the remaining slices and cut in squares, oblongs, triangles, etc. 

If fancy cutters are used, shape before spreading, that no butter may be 
wasted. 

If the sandwiches are prepared several hours before they are served, they 
may be kept fresh and moist by wrapping them in a dampened napkin, and leav- 
ing them in a Bohn Syphon refrigerator. ParafHn paper is often used for the 
same purpose. 

Chopped eggs, chicken, veal, celery, olives or nuts mixed with salad dressing, 
make very good filling for sandwiches. The filling may be prepared and kept in a 
Bohn Syphon refrigerator several hours before using. 

Salted meats make good filling for sandwiches. 

The meat may be sliced, when it should be cut across the grain and in as 
thin slices as possible. 

The meat may be chopped. The addition of a little mustard, Worcester- 
shire or horseradish sauce is good with beef or tongue. Capers, catsup, mint or 
tomato sauce is good with lamb. 

Chopped peppers, celery salt, or finely chopped celery is good with chicken 
or veal. 

Lemon juice, onion juice or chopped parsley is good with fish. 

Cress, cabbage, cucumbers, pimentoes or olives may be chopped and added 
to a salad dressing alone or with meat for filling. 

Uncooked fruit fillings may be used. Dates or figs with nuts make very good 
sandwich filling. 

Garnish the serving dish with parsley, lemon, celery tips, water cress, nas- 
turtium leaves and blossoms, etc. 

Coffee is the most desirable beverage to serve with sandwiches, then tea, and 
lastly cocoa, or chocolate, which should only be served with the dainty sweet 
sandwiches. 



104 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



BEEF SANDWICHES 

Cut meat into very thin slices. Place on buttered slices of bread, with salt 
and pepper to taste. This recipe may be varied by using beef and pork, veal and 
pork, or cold pork. Good sandwiches may also be made with cold fried meat and 
a dressing. 

CELERY SANDWICHES 

3 hard boiled eggs chopped very fine. 
% c. finely chopped celery (white stalks only). 
Enough salad dressing to bind together properly. 
Season to taste with salt, pepper and paprika. 

DEVILED EGG SANDWICHES 

Boil eggs until hard, chill in cold water, remove shell and separate yolk and 
whites. Chop whites very fine, mix with salad dressing. Place a lettuce leaf on 
a slice of slightly buttered bread. Rub the yolk with a little olive oil or butter, 
season with salt and pepper, a little mustard, a tablespoonful minced ham or 
tongue to each yolk. Spread this on a slice of bread (buttered if preferred) then 
place the slice with lettuce and whites of eggs together. Wrap in oil paper. 

Mrs. C. W. Wake, St. Edward, Neb. 

FILLING FOR SANDWICHES 

3^ green pepper. Yl white onion. 

Put through grinder. Mix the oil mayonnaise dressing and put on lettuce 
leaf. 

Mrs. K. E. Wilson, Cor. Lilac and Windsor Streets, 

Pittsburg, Pa. 

EGG SANDWICHES 

Chop hard boiled eggs and mix with salad dressing and spread between 
slices of bread. 

Mrs. H. W. Marden, 22 Portland Street, Lynn, Mass. 

FRUIT SANDWICHES 

Cut bread in long, thin slices. Spread with very thick cream (or white cream 
cheese) cover alternate slices with large strawberries cut in half and very thinly 
sliced bananas. Sprinkle fruit with crushed loaf sugar and tie each roll with 
narrow ribbon and serve. 

Mrs. C. W. Wake, St. Edward, Neb. 

OYSTER SANDWICHES 

1 pt. oysters. Whites of 2 eggs. 

^ c. melted butter. 4 large crackers. 

J^ c. rich cream. J^ tsp. salt. 

Dash of paprika, and grated nutmeg. 
Drain and chop the oysters very fine, mix with the oysters, salt, paprika, nut- 
meg, melted with butter, rich cream, whites of eggs beaten stiff and crackers 
powdered. 

Cook all in a double boiler to a smooth paste, and pour into a square pan, let 
cool, set in refrigerator. When firm, cut in thin slices and lay between buttered 
slices of graham or white bread. This recipe will make fifty sandwiches. 

Mrs. S. M. Watson, Tekoa, Washington. 

PEANUT FIG SANDWICHES 

Chop fine one-fourth pound figs, add to them one-fourth cupful water. Cook 
to a smooth paste. Add one-third cupful peanuts, ground and mixed to a paste 
with the juice of a lemon. When cold, spread on thin slices of white bread or cake. 
Dates or raisins may be substituted for figs. 

Mrs. F. M. Koenig, 599 Ocean Ave., Jersey City, N. J. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 105 

PREPARED SANDWICHES 

Cut an oblong shaped loaf of bread into thin slices and trim off the crusts- 
Chop a quantity of cold, boiled ham, also a quantity of cold chicken. Take a 
slice of bread and place upon it a layer of chopped ham, a layer of Mayonnaise 
dressing, a layer of chopped chicken, a layer of chopped English walnuts, another 
slice of bread again, a layer of each chopped ham. Mayonnaise, chicken, nuts and 
lastly a slice of bread. Wrap in a damp cloth and place a heavy weight on top 
to press, allow the loaf to stand six or eight hours. Then slice as you would 
bread. This makes a very dainty course for luncheon or parties. 

Mrs. Ella Traxler, Hammond, III. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES 

1 box good imported sardines. Pinch of paprika. 

4 hard boiled eggs. 1 tbsp. vinegar or lemon juice. 

Pinch of salt. 1 tbsp. melted brown butter. 

Mash sardines and eggs to a pulp and add salt, paprika, vinegar, adding the 
brown butter last. 

Butter thin slices of bread, spread with filling, adding lettuce leaf if desired. 
Cover with a damp napkin and place in refrigerator to chill until ready to serrve. 
Edna P. Wert, 510 W. High Street, Elkhart, Ind. 



106 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



Peberageg 



AFTERNOON TEA FOR A SUMMER DAY 

Chill a pitcher of freshly made tea of desired strength. Sweeten with orange 
syrup instead of sugar. Squeeze in enough lemon juice to give it a little tang, and 
set on ice again to become thoroughly chilled. 

Delicious served in the following manner: 

Have ready a bowl of chipped ice, a bowl of vanilla ice cream and a pitcher of 
cold tea. Fill dainty glass a third full of ice, pour on tea until two-thirds full, 
and then drop a spoonful of ice cream on top. 



A FINE DRINK 

6 or 7 glasses of water. 
Sugar to taste. 
Some crushed ice. 
Dissolve sugar with a little hot water. 

Mrs. J. DiEHM, 241 S. 10th St., Kansas City, Kan. 



Juice of 4 lemons. 
Juice of 6 oranges. 



1 pt. ginger ale. 
Yl pt. tea, rather strong. 
y^ c. orange juice. 



AMBER PUNCH 

^ c. pineapple juice and pine- 
apple cut in cubes. 
1 c. water. 
Sweeten to taste. 

Mix the orange juice, tea, water, pineapple and one-half cupful sugar. Place 
in refrigerator until thoroughly chilled. Have the ginger ale, also in the refrig- 
erator, but do not add until just before serving. 

Serve in tall glasses with cracked ice, a few slices of orange, several cherries 
and a sprig of mint in each glass. 
This serves six people. 

Miss M. R. Priestley, Wilcox, Elk Co., Pa. 



ANTE-CON-ANTE 

24 lemons. 1 pineapple. 

12 oranges. 1 qt. strawberries. 

5 lbs. sugar 
Squeeze juice from lemons and oranges, shred pineapple, crush strawberries, 
add sugar, then water enough to make three gallons. 

Mrs. Bessie P. Norris, 392 Islington Street, Portsmouth, N. H. 

BLACKBERRY NECTAR 

To one gallon of mashed berries add one quart of cold water, let stand 36 
hours in refrigerator. Strain and add three pounds of sugar and one ounce of 
tartaric acid to each quart of juice. It may be used immediately or may be kept 
for years. Use two tablespoonfuls to the glass of water. 

Mrs. J. D. Rice, Sr., 208 White Street, Huntsville, Ala. 



CANTALOUPE CUP 

Wash small cantaloupes, cut in halves crosswise. Scrape out seeds and scoop 
out pulp with a spoon. To each cup of pulp add an equal quantity of shredded 
pineapple, one-fourth cupful of currant or raspberry jam, one tablespoonful lemon 
juice, grating of nutmeg and sugar to taste. Let stand covered for two hours in 
refrigerator. Refill halves and serve individually, each on a grape leaf. 

Mrs. H. L. Schermerhorn, Saltaire, New York 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 107 

CANTON PUNCH 

This recipe makes one and one-half gallons: 

2 dozen lemons. 1 c. raspberry juice. 

1 dozen oranges. 2 qts. grape juice. 

Squeeze the juice from the oranges and lemons and add to this the grape juice, 
the raspberry syrup and two quarts of water. Cover the skins of the fruit with 
water and let boil five minutes, then add this juice. Sweeten to taste. Serve 
very cold. 

Bananas may be used. Dip first in lemon juice to prevent them from turn- 
ing black. Mrs. J. R. John, 323 E. 11th Street, Davenport, Iowa 

CHERRY "BOHN" 

Use one quart of cherry cordial prepared as directed below. 

Add to this juice of one orange and one lemon if desired. 

Dilute this with water if the flavor is too strong, and sweeten with a plain 
syrup made of sugar and water, if not sweet enough. Put on ice in 
refrigerator until very cold, and serve in small tumblers with tea cakes. This 
makes an ideal, light refreshment for company, etc., and is wholesome. Serve 
with a little cracked ice in each tumbler. 

This is nice without the orange and lemon also. 

Cherry punch can be made of this by putting in a punch bowl, adding candied 
mint leaves, or preserved cherries, and lemon ice, etc. 

Mrs. E. W. Buckingham, 1003 Rivermont Avenue, Lynchburg, Va. 

CHERRY CORDIAL 

To one gallon strained cherry juice, add two pounds of sugar and boil 30 
minutes, then add one-half pint of the French brandy. Place in refrigerator until 
cold, then bottle. 

CHERRY NECTAR 

Take two boxes of sour cherries, stone them and boil for one-half hour in a 
quart of water. Strain them out and boil the juice with one pound of sugar to 
each pint of juice for fifteen minutes. Then put in the cherries and boil for fifteen 
minutes more. Serve cold. Jane Machen, Savanna, III. 

CHERRY SYRUP 

Use sour cherries. Extract the juice by cooking in a little water until soft. 
Strain, measure, and boil ten minutes in an enamel kettle. Add one-half cupful 
of sugar for each quart of juice and boil five minutes, skimming it carefully. Seal 
up in bottles while hot and serve when wanted. 

■ Mrs. E. W. Buckingham, 1003 Rivermont Avenue, Lynchburg, Va. 

CLARET CUP 

To one quart of claret wine, add one bottle of lemon soda water, one lemon cut 
very thin, four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, one-fourth teaspoonful of grated 
nutmeg, one liquor glass of brandy, one wine glass of sherry wine. Put in refrig- 
erator, and half an hour before It is used, put in chunk of ice. 

Louise C. F. Missall, 1267 Webster Avenue, Bronx, N. Y. 

COCOA EGG-NOG 

Beat one egg white dry and stiff, and add gradually while beating, one tea- 
spoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of cocoa and a pinch of salt. Add to one-half 
the rnixture while beating, three-fourths of a cup of rich milk. Set both in covered 
jars in refrigerator to keep cold. When about to serve, fill tall glasses half full 
of the last mixture, piling the first on top. Is very nourishing and delicious, 
especially when kept very cool in refrigerator. 

Clara Van Loon, 459 Murray Avenue, Milwaukee, Wis. 

COCOA NECTAR 

1 c. hot coffee. 3 c. cold water. 

2 tbsp. cocoa. Vanilla flavoring. 

J^ lb. sugar. Ice cream or whipped cream. 

Mix cocoa and sugar together and dissolve in hot coffee, then add cold water 
and_ strain through cheesecloth, flavor to taste with vanilla, set on ice in 
refrigerator to chill. Serve in glasses with a tablespoonful of whipped 
cream (sweetened and flavored) or with vanilla or chocolate ice cream. 

Mrs. Robert W. Frye, New Durham, N. H. 



108 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



CREAM NECTAR 

Over six pounds of sugar, pour two quarts warm water and four ounces of 
tartaric acid. Stir well. When sugar is dissolved, stir in the beaten whites of 
four eggs. When cool, flavor with lemon and vanilla. Do not let the mixture 
boil. Put in bottles or jugs and keep well corked. 

Directions for use: Put two tablespoonfuls in a glass of ice water, add one- 
sixteenth teaspoonful soda, stir until foamy. A nice drink in hot weather. 

Gertrude Fletcher, R. F. D. No. 2, Pedro, Ohio. 

CURRANT SHRUB 

Pick currants carefully (in a pan of water that no insects are left on them). 
Then crush in a bowl. Add the juice to water in proportion of one pint of the 
berry juice to three pints of water. Add sugar to taste (some prefer to leave it 
tart). Chill in refrigerator and serve with cracked ice. 

Mrs. B. T. Beauchamp, 1705 E. Twelfth Street, Kansas City, Mo. 

A DELICIOUS SUMMER BEVERAGE 

4 c. cold tea. Juice of 2 oranges. 

Juice of 1 grapefruit. 5 c. water. 

Juice of 4 lemons. 4 sprigs of mint. 

Sugar to taste. 
Place in refrigerator until ready for use. Have a sprig of mint 
and thin slice of orange besides cracked ice for each glass. Cherries or straw- 
berries add to the appearance. This will serve about 15, using tall ice tea glasses. 
Mrs. Edward King, 64 N. Second Street, Newark, Ohio 

DRINKS 

Delicious drinks may be made from fruit juice alone. An excellent one is 
made as follows: Strain one quart of either strawberry, raspberry or cherry 
juice, add one pint granulated sugar and stand aside in cool place for six hours. 
Then put over the fire, letting it come to a good boil, skim and drip through a 
jelly bag. 

To serve add two or three tablespoonfuls of the syrup to half a glass of 
crushed ice then fill the glass with water. Fruit juices may also be combined 
with good results. 



EGG SHAKE 



1 



2 tbsp. sugar. 
3^ c. ice water. 



Whipped cream. 

2 tbsp. lemon juice. 
Vanilla. 

Little of lemon rind, grated. 

Beat the whites of the egg to a stiff froth. Add the sugar and the ice water to 

the yolk, put it into a shaker and mix until it is light and creamy. Then add the 

egg white and shake again. Put in the lemon juice, the vanilla and a little of the 

grated lemon rind and shake. Pour into a glass and heap whipped cream on top. 

Mrs. Winthrop Dunbar, 36 West Street, Bristol, Conn. 

FLORIDA FRUIT PUNCH 

Boil two pounds of granulated sugar with one pint of water for fifteen min- 
utes. Grate the rinds from three oranges and one lemon. (The number indi- 
cated is for the large Florida fruit) squeeze the juice from three lemons, eight 
oranges and one grapefruit, and add to grated rind. Now turn the boiling hot 
syrup upon mixture, let stand ten minutes, strain and cool. Place in glass jar in 
refrigerator, and in serving, dilute to taste with iced water. 

Maraschino cherries may be added. 

The prepared syrup will keep indefinitely in a cool place. 

Ethel G. Hakes, Winter Park, Florida. 

FRUIT NECTAR 

1 c. crushed strawberries. 
1 small can pineapple diced and 
the juice. 

3 c. sugar. 
3 pts. water. 

Mix and let stand three hours to ripen in refrigerator. Then 
serve in tall glasses with cracked ice, or 

Put in freezer and freeze till half done and add the stiffly beaten whites of 
three eggs. It will require one more cupful of sugar if frozen. 

Mrs. E. N. Maxwell, 914 Garland, Texarkana, Ark. 



Juice of 3 lemons. 
Juice of 3 oranges. 
1 c. grape juice. 
1 c. elderberry juice. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 109 

FRUIT PUNCH 

Make a syrup by boiling two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of water ten min- 
utes, add one cupful strong tea, one pint cherry juice, one pint strawberry juice, 
juice of five lemons, juice of five oranges, one can grated pineapple. Let stand 
twenty minutes, strain, turn into punch bowl over a piece of ice. Add one-half 
pint candied cherries, one and one-half gallons water. This will serve fifty or 
sixty people. 

Mrs. C. T. Mason, 11 Fourth Street N. E., Roanoke, Va. 

FRUIT PUNCH 

2 c. sugar. Y2 c. lemon juice. 

1 c. water. 1 c. pineapple juice. 

Y2 c. orange juice. J^ c. maraschino cherries. 

Boil water and sugar until the mixture spins a thread and remove from the 
fire. Add the fruit juices and allow to stand for twenty minutes. Then strain 
and chill and add the whole marsachino cherries. Sweeten the punch to taste. 
Fill bowl one-third full of chopped ice, add small pieces of pineapple, banana, 
strawberry and white grapes before serving. 

Mrs. C. C. Mitchell, 500 W. Edward Street, Springfield, III. 

FRUIT PUNCH 

Make a syrup by boiling four cupfuls of water and two cupfuls of sugar 
twenty minutes. Separate twelve sprigs of fresh mint into pieces, add one and 
one-half cupfuls of boiling water. Cover and let stand in a warm place ten 
minutes. Then strain and add to syrup. Add one cupful strawberry juice, one 
cupful orange juice and the juice of eight lemons, then cool. 

Pour into a punch bowl, add one pint of grape juice and chill with a large 
piece of ice; dilute with water. Garnish with fresh mint leaves and whole straw- 
berries. Serve in punch glasses. 

Mrs. J. O. ScHWANER, 2602 Elmwood Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 

FRUITED TEA 

6 tsp. tea leaves. Juice of 4 lemons. 

6 c. boiling water. 4 minced oranges. 

2 c. sugar. 5 sliced bananas. 

Steep tea, strain, add two cupfuls of sugar. When cool, add the juice of four 
lemons and four minced oranges. Slice into this five bananas. Fruit juice may 
be added to give color. Set in refrigerator to cool. Serve cold with cracked ice. 
Mrs. M. Lauterbach, Redwood Falls, Minn. 

GINGER BEER 

Slice four large juicy lemons and put them in a deep earthenware vessel. 
Add to them one and one-half pounds of granulated sugar, and one and one-half 
ounces of well bruised ginger root. Pour over this sixteen quarts of boiling water. 
When nearly cold add one-half compressed yeast cake. Tie a cheesecloth over 
the top, let it stand twenty-four hours, then strain and bottle in patent corked 
beer bottles. Keep in a cool place. Put on ice in refrigerator several hours 
before serving. This is a summer and a winter beverage. 

Miss Anna M. Branagan, 2043 12th St. Blvd., Chicago, III. 

GINGER CRUSH 

1 tbsp. crushed ginger. 1 c. sugar. 

1 qt. water. Juice of 2 lemons. 

Boil ginger (tied in bag) in the water for fifteen minutes. Add sugar while 
hot and when cold add lemon juice. Thoroughly chill on ice and serve in tumblers 
with crushed ice. 

Mrs. M. D. Gregg, care S. M. Watson, Tekoa, Wash. 

GINGER CORDIAL 

8 drachms essence of ginger. 1 drachm cayenne. 

Yl ounce essence of lemon. Put this together in bottle. 

1 ounce tartaric acid. 
Dissolve the tartaric acid in a cup of sugar and water. Dissolve three pounds 
of white sugar in one gallon of boiling water. Add acid and bottle mixture. Stir 
well. Bottle and cork tightly. Keep on ice in refrigerator. 

Mrs. L. B. Adair, Lisbon, N. D. 



no HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

GINGER POP 

Crush two ounces of ginger root into a large crock jar. Add two pounds of 
granulated sugar, eight quarts of boiling water, juice of seven lemons and two 
ounces of cream of tartar. Let stand until lukewarm, then add one-half cake of 
compressed yeast that has been dissolved in half cup of warm water. Stir well. 
Cover the jar and let stand eight hours. Strain and bottle, keep in cool place. 
Put on ice in refrigerator as required for use. 

Mrs. T. H. Eraser, Box 14, Glendale, R. I. 

GRAPE JUICE I 

Take fresh, ripe wild grapes. Wash them and put into preserving kettle and 
add enough cold water to just cover the grapes. Let them come to a boil slowly, 
and mash with a wooden spoon when thoroughly boiled. Then pour into a muslin 
bag and hang so as to let all the juice drip off. Measure the juice and for every 
four cupfuls of juice, allow two cupfuls of sugar. Put the juice on stove to boil, 
simmering ten minutes. Heat the sugar in the oven, and then pour it into the 
juice. Stir same and let it all boil. Then skim. Pour into sterilized bottles and 
cork tight. I also pour melted paraffin around the corks. The juice keeps per- 
fect for over a year. 

When wanted, have water thoroughly chilled in refrigerator, add grape juice 
to suit the taste and serve. This is a beverage that has been highly 
appreciated by all who have tasted it. 

Mrs. L. Pederson, 60 Hunting Street, Bridgeport, Conn. 

GRAPE JUICE II 

10 lbs. grapes. 2 qts. water. 

2 lbs. sugar. 
Boil grapes and water ten minutes, strain and add two pounds of sugar. Let 
it come to a boil, bottle in patent cork bottles. When straining the juice, do not 
squeeze. 

Gertrude Fletcher, R. F. D. No. 2, Pedro, Ohio 

GRAPE JUICE NECTAR 

1 pt. grape juice. Juice 2 lemons. 

1 pt. water. Juice 1 orange. 

1 c. sugar. 1 orange sliced thin. 

Mix all except the sliced orange together in a punch bowl, add a large lump 
of ice and lay the sliced orange on the surface of the liquid. When very cold, 
serve. 

Maude Overlander, Highland, Kan. 

HARVARD LEMONADE 

Take the juice of four lemons and two oranges, to a quart and a half of cold 
water, dissolve two cups of sugar, and add one tumbler of grape juice, mix well, 
put in refrigerator, near the ice, several hours. While this is cool- 
ing, take the whites of three eggs, thoroughly whipped with three teaspoonfuls of 
powdered sugar. Serve on the top of each glass of lemonade, with wafers. 

Louise C. F. Missall, 1267 Webster Avenue, Bronx, N. Y. 

ICED CHOCOLATE 

Mix one-third cupful of cocoa with one cup sugar and four tablespoonfuls of 
cold water. Add one cupful of boiling water, stirring until dissolved. Boil for 
three minutes. Then cool, add one tablespoonful vanilla and set aside in 
refrigerator, to be used as needed. Pour two tablespoonfuls of this 
syrup into a tumbler with some cracked ice, stir in three tablespoonfuls of whipped 
cream, a little milk and drop in a spoonful of vanilla ice cream. 

Mrs. T. W. Maher, 2125 Sixteenth Street, Moline, III. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 111 

ICED CHOCOLATE 

Very popular between the ages of five and sixty. 

)^ lb. chocolate. 1 c. sugar. 

3^ c. water. 
Put in saucepan and set on the fire. Stir steadily until chocolate is all melted. 
Add one more cup of water and boil until syrup is smooth. Put aside to cool. 
When ready to serve, put an inch or so of cracked ice in each tumbler, pour in 
chocolate syrup until glass is one-third full. Fill up with cold milk and put a 
generous spoonful of whipped cream on top. 

This is a most successful company beverage. 

Mrs. Allen Albert, Care Civic and Federal Association of 

Minnesota, McKnight Bldg., Minneapolis, Minn. 

ICED COFFEE 

Make coffee in the usual way and while hot, sweeten to taste and add half as 
much rich milk, or part milk and cream. Be sure it is free from grounds and sedi- 
ment. When cooled, place in refrigerator. 

When ready to serve, fill glasses three quarters full and add ice cream or 
whipped cream, preferably the latter. 

M. B. Early, Mansfield Center, Conn. 

ICED FRUIT JUICE 

Arrange fresh mint leaves, lengthwise at equal distances in frappe glasses, 
allowing four to each glass. Put in finely crushed ice to three-fourths depth of 
glasses, and pour fresh fruit juice sweetened to taste, using the fresh juice of grape, 
raspberry, strawberry, pineapple or any fruit. Arrange glasses on small plates, 
covered with doilies and serve as first course at luncheon. 

Mrs. J. B. Retallack Northfolk, W. Va. 

ICED GINGER DRINK 

1 tbsp. vinegar. }/i c. sugar. 

1 tsp. ginger. 1 qt. water. 

Mix ingredients and serve with cracked ice. 
Very refreshing. 

Alice Stewart, 216 W. Irving Street, Oshkosh, Wis. 

LEMON EGG DRINK 

Juice of 2 lemons. 1 egg beaten very light. 

4 c. cold water. Sugar to taste. 

Mix ingredients. 

Serve ice cold. 
Mrs. R. B. Scatterday, 904 Chicago Street, Caldwell, Idaho. 

LEMON GINGER JULEP 

Juice of five lemons, sweetened to taste. Chill in refrigerator. Fill glasses 
one-third full of cracked ice. Add one bottle chilled ginger ale to lemon juice, 
and pour over cracked ice. Serve immediately. 

Mrs. W. F. Schoppe, 606 S. Third Ave., Bozeman, Mont. 

MINT CUP 

Put several mint leaves in a tall glass and fill full of shaved ice. Add the juice 
of one lemon and two slices of orange. Sweeten to taste. Fill the glass with 
water. 

Mrs. W. Bert Stevens, 914 W. Sth Street, Albany, Ore. 

MINT PUNCH 

Put into punch bowl one cupful sugar, juice of six lemons and stir until sugar 
is dissolved. Put in three peeled lemons, sliced thin, and leave in the ice until 
ready to use. Add one dozen sprays of green mint and one quart of cracked ice. 
Stir well and pour from a height into it, two or three bottles of imported ginger ale. 



112 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



OLD FASHIONED MEAD 

1 lb. sugar. 1 tsp. cream of tartar. 

1 tbsp. ginger. 1 pt. yeast. 

1 tbsp. cinnamon. 1 lemon. 

1 tbsp. whole cloves. 1 egg. 

Water. 
Mix sugar, ginger, cinnamon and cloves and pour one quart of boiling water 
over mixture. After it is cooled, add cream of tartar, yeast, lemon cut in slices, 
egg beaten to a frost, and three quarts of water. Bottle and keep in a warm place 
one day. Tie the corks of bottles or use regular root beer bottles. Keep a num- 
ber of bottles on ice in refrigerator to use when wanted. 

Mrs. R. a. Lowers, 608 J Street, Sparrows Point, Md. 

"ORANGE OR PINEAPPLEADE" 

Pare and slice some very ripe pineapples. Then cut the slices into small 
pieces. Put them with all their juice into a large pitcher and sprinkle among 
them plenty of powdered white sugar. Pour on boiling water, allowing a small 
half pint to each pineapple. Cover the pitcher and let it stand till quite cool, 
occasionally pressing down the pineapple with a spoon. Then set on ice in 
refrigerator. Lastly strain the infusion into another vessel and transfer 
it to tumblers, putting into each some more sugar, a bit of ice. This 
beverage will be found delicious. 

Mrs. V. Wayne West, R. F. D. No. 1, Homestead, Pa. 

ORANGE ICE DRINK 

Press out the juice and pulp of oranges in a grinder, soak in it a little of the 
shaved rind. To one pint of juice add one quart of water, one-half cup of lemon 
juice and about two and one-half cupfuls of sugar. 

Let stand in refrigerator until cold. 

Hedwig David, 511 S. Sixteenth Street, St. Joseph, Mo. 

ORANGE JULEP 

Rind of 3^ orange shaved fine. 1 tbsp. powdered sugar. 

2 sprigs fresh mint. 1 tsp. creme de menthe. 

1 c. chopped ice. 
Mix orange rind, sugar and a little ice for two minutes to extract the oil. Add 
the rest of the ice, the fresh mint, stems down, leaves above and the rest of the 
ngredients. Chill in refrigerator. Serve in tall glass with a straw. 

Mrs. Moses Morri.s, 403 N. Ewing Street, Helena, Mont. 

ORIENTAL PUNCH 

Juice of 2 lemons. Green coloring. 

Juice of 3 oranges. 3 qts. water. 

6 to 8 drops of oil of peppermint. 

Mix the water, lemon juice and orange juice together and add enough sugar 
to suit the taste. 

Then strain it and add enough green coloring to make it a very pale green. 
Then add the peppermint, which will give it a peculiar flavor that is very fine. 
Keep in refrigerator to be used as occasion demands. 

Claret punch may be made in the same manner, omitting the peppermint and 
green coloring and in their place adding enough claret to flavor and color it. 
Serve cold. 

Mrs. p. M. Synder, 407 Walnut Avenue S. E., Canton, Ohio. 

PINEAPPLE FRAPPE 

2 c. water. 2 c. ice water. 

1 c. sugar. 1 can grated pineapple or 

Juice of 3 lemons. 1 pineapple, shredded. 

Make a syrup by boiling water and sugar fifteen minutes, add pineapple and 
lemon juice, cool, strain, add ice water and press to a mush, using equal parts of 
ice and salt. If fresh fruit is used, more sugar will be needed. 

Miss Herrick, 376 N. Main Street, Woonsocket, R. I. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 113 

PINEAPPLE LEMONADE 

1 c. canned pineapple. 1 c. water. 

1 c. sugar. 2 lemons, the juice. 

Boil the sugar and water until it spins a thread. Put the pineapple through 
a fruit press and add to the syrup with the juice of the lemons. When ready to 
serve, add water and sugar to taste. Serve ice cold. 

Sarah J. Freeman, 908 Twenty-second Street, Rock Island, III. 

PINEAPPLE LEMONADE 

2 c. water. 3 lemons. 

1 c. sugar. ' 1 can grated pineapple. 

4 c. ice water. 
Boil sugar and one cup water ten minutes, add juice of lemons and pine- 
apple. Cool, strain and add ice water. Good and inexpensive. 

Mrs. B. F. Fenlin, 3323 Park Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 

PINEAPPLE PUNCH 

2 grated pineapples. 3 lbs. sugar boiled 10 minutes in 
Juice of 6 oranges. water to dissolve. 

Juice of 6 lemons. 

Cool and pour over fruit. 
Add 10 lbs. cracked ice. 
Mary Manley, 217 S. Ver. Street, Streator, III. 

PINEAPPLE PUNCH 

Peel gnd grate half a full ripe pineapple, add the juice and pulp of a large 
orange and the juice of two lemons, then a cupful of cold water and a cupful of 
cold syrup, made by boiling a cupful of granulated sugar in two of water for ten 
minutes. 

Set on ice in refrigerator to chill, add thin slices of lemon and 
serve in glasses with cracked ice, having one or two Maraschino or conserved cher- 
ries in each. 

Mrs. John A. Erikson, Box 146, Fertile, Minn. 

PUNCH 

3 glasses of currant jelly. 3 glasses of crab apple jelh'. 
Whip jelly to a froth, add slowly six pints boiling water. 

Juice of 18 lemons and 6 oranges. 6 c. sugar. 

Add water enough to make three gallons. Serve iced. Serves seventy-five 
people. 

Mrs. Elmer Long, Volin, S. D. 

RASPBERRY CUP 

Mash and strain one pint of red currants, pour the juice over shaved ice in 
cups, add one teaspoonful pineapple juice to each cup, and put over the top several 
fresh red raspberries. 

Mrs. W. Bert Stevens, 914 W. Fifth Street, Albany, Ore. 

RASPBERRY LEMONADE 

1 pt. juice from canned raspberries. Juice of two lemons. 

1 pt. juice from canned cherries. 1 quart cold water. 

Sweeten to taste with the following: 

SUGAR SYRUP 

1 c. sugar and 1 c. water boiled slowly for fifteen minutes. 
Cool the lemonade in refrigerator. 

Miss Mildred Meredith, Victor, Iowa. 

RASPBERRY PUNCH 

1 pt. raspberries. 1 qt. currants. 

2 qts. cold water 
Bruise the fruit and pour over it two quarts of cold water. Put over a mod- 
erate fire where it will heat gradually. When it begins to boil, remove from fire 
and strain through cloth. Keep bottled in refrigerator. 

Amelia S. Bratton, 1709 W. 104 Place, Chicago, III. 



114 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

RASPBERRY SHRUB 

Four quarts of red raspberries to one quart of best cider vinegar; let stand 
four days; then strain. To each pint of juice add one pound of granulated sugar, 
boil twenty minutes, bottle and keep in a dry, cool place. To serve, fill as much as 
desired in a glass, add crushed ice and water. Very refreshing and wholesome in 
hot weather. Jane Machen, Savanna, III. 

RED RASPBERRY VINEGAR 

Take any quantity of raspberries and cover with good vinegar. Let stand 
forty-eight hours. Then strain through a cloth, same as in making jelly. Measure 
your juice after straining and for every quart of juice add same of granulated sugar. 
Boil five minutes. Lift off any scum that may arise, then bottle. In serving 
this drink, pour two-thirds of raspberry vinegar in glass and add water to fill glass. 
Mrs. Petri, 1907 N. 123^ Street, Terre Haute, Ind. 

ROSE PUNCH 

Boil together two pounds of loaf sugar and three pints of water. Skim off 
any scum which arises and add the whites of two eggs beaten stiiT. Let boil one 
minute and remove from fire. Allow it to cool, then add two teaspoonfuls of rose 
extract. Strain through a fine sieve, then add half a pint of spirits of wine; color 
a delicate pink with rose vegetable coloring and set on ice in refrigerator 
to chill. Serve in tall thin glasses half filled with crushed ice and float 
a few rose petals on top. 

Mrs. C. E. Jones, 5036 Park Avenue, Chicago, III. 

SNAPPY PUNCH 

Use two parts of grape juice and one part of ginger ale for whatever amount 
of punch is desired. Crystallized mint leaves add tq flavor and appearance of 
punch when ready to serve. This should be ice cold and the ginger ale added only 
a short time before making. 

Mrs. W. J. Multer, Box No. 308, Rosyln, Long Island, N. Y. 

STRAWBERRY LEMONADE 

Use one quart of strawberries to every lemon. Mash the berries slightly, 
combine them with the lemon and rub through a colander. Then add one cup of 
granulated sugar and add one quart of ice cold water, and serve in a glass bowl. 
Put plenty of crushed ice in the glass before serving. If desired, add a little pine- 
apple. Mrs. B. a. Cowgill, Clarks, Neb. 

STRAWBERRY PUNCH 

Hull and wash one quart of ripe strawberries and have ready a pint of chopped 
fresh pineapple. Put the fruit together and drain the juice off. Make a syrup of 
two cups of sugar and one and one-half cups of water, add the fruit juice and when 
cold, pour in one-half pint of good port wine. Add the fruit and set in 
refrigerator for several hours, to thoroughly chill. 

STRAWBERRY SHRUB 

Dissolve five ounces of tartaric acid in two quarts of water, and pour this over 
twelve pounds of hulled strawberries in an earthen vessel. Let stand forty-eight 
hours with a plate on top of berries to keep them down. After this, strain through 
a flannel bag, then add one and one-half pounds of granulated sugar to each pint 
of juice. Stir until every particle of sugar is dissolved, then bottle, cork and keep 
in refrigerator. It is not necessary to seal the corks. 

This makes a delicious drink by adding two or three teaspoonfuls of the shrub 
to a glass of water. 

Amelia S. Bratton, 1709 W. lOi Place, Chicago, III. 

SUMMER CHOCOLATE 

Grate chocolate very fine, add to it an equal amount of powdered sugar and 
add enough pure cream to make thick paste. Keep in cool place, put a portion of 
this in a glass and fill with ice water. 

Mrs. C. L. Quigg, 2218 Mahoning Road N. E., Canton, Ohio. 

"SUNKIST SPARKLE" 

Take one-half a Sunkist orange juice and put in a glass, then fill glass with 
ginger ale and cracked ice. Is a very delicious cold drink. 

Mrs. George Leonard, 504 N. Main St., Woonsocket, R. I. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 115 



TIP TOP FRUIT PUNCH 

Boil to a syrup two cupfuls of sugar and one of water, add one cupful weak 
tea, add one cupful strawberry juice (or some good fruit juice left from summer 
canning), juice of five lemons and five oranges and one can grated pineapple, let 
stand one-half hour to blend, in refrigerator, strain and add one quart of 
mineral water, one cupful of cherries, add one gallon of water. Will 
serve fifty people. 

Mrs. W. Clyde Roberts, Lee and 13th Ave., Pensacola, Fla. 

WATERMELON NECTAR 

Crush the hearts of ripe watermelons and strain juice into pitcher. Set in 
refrigerator to chill, ^yhen thoroughly cold, pour into tall glasses and serve. 
This makes a delicious drink for summer afternoons. 

Miss Grace Hines, Oak Dale Apartments, Jacksonville, Fla. 

ZEPPELIN SPECIAL 

J^ pt. claret. 1 lemon. 

y% pt. water. 1 c. raspberries. 

Yi c. sugar. _ Cracked ice. 

Half fill tall glasses with cracked ice, add lemon juice in which sugar has been 
dissolved, claret, water and raspberries slightly crushed. Serve with straw 
"sipperp" and place on raspberry leaves. Ingredients should be thoroughly 
chilled in refrigerator before mixing. 

Amy Hyde, 3821 Wyoming Street, St. Louis, Mo. 



116 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



\ 



ileat, Jf isf) anb €gg Bigftes 



ASPIC OF VEAL AND HAM 

Cut into symmetrical cubes one and one-half pounds of veal cutlet and three- 
fourths pound of smoked ham. Butter a mold or the upper part of a small double 
boiler, and on the bottom lay a ring of veal, inside this a ring of ham, then another 
of veal, and so on, until the bottom is covered, then sprinkle lightly with pepper 
(no salt) and add a few drops of lemon juice. Continue in this way until the 
mold or double boiler is filled, then cover with a floured cloth, put on the cover 
tightly, and let steam for three hours. At the end of this period, remove from 
fire and let cool, then put it into the refrigerator for at least twelve 
hours, twenty-four hours will be better, and then turn out. It will be a solid and 
beautiful aspic. 

Mrs. George Edwyn Holding, 39 W. Washington Square, 

New York City. 

A COLD BIRD, Metropolitan 

Select choice homing squabs. Wrap each bird separately in strips of sliced 
bacon one-fourth inch thick, pinning with hardwood round toothpicks, first 
stuffing birds with dressing made by grinding squab hearts and liver, and black 
walnut meats, with bread crumbs saturated with best sherry wine. 

Then place birds in covered stone roasting dish and keep in hot oven until 
bacon is crisp through, watch so as not to burn. Allow to cool, then place on 
service platter in bed of crisp lettuce. Garnish with hearts of choice celery and 
place in refrigerator along with a small bottle of Rhine wine made 
from any good vintage grown in America, U. S. A., ready for your husband's 
home coming. 

Mrs. Alice J. Brower, The Metropolitan, Fort Morgan, Col. 

BAKED ONIONS 

Take as many nice large onions as you wish to serve. Boil for fifteen or 
twenty minutes. Butter baking dish, place onions in it, with thin strips of 
bacon covering the top. Bake until done, and bacon a nice brown. 

Mrs. L. H. Watts, 406 Produce Exchange, Kansas City, Mo. 

BEEF CUTLETS 

1 c. cold beef. Salt and pepper. 

% c. boiled potatoes cut in small cubes. 1 c. thick white sauce. 

Few drops onion juice. 

Add to white sauce the beef, potatoes, onion juice, salt and pepper. Heat 
thoroughly and spread in shallow dish. When nearly cool, place in refrigerator 
until ice cold. 

1 usually make them the morning of one day, and allow them to remain in 
refrigerator until the next day, as the colder they are,, the better they 
shape. Shape, dip in crumbs, eggs and crumbs again, and fry in deep 
fat. Drain. 

Lamb may be prepared in the same way. 

Mrs. Halbert E. Pierce, 286 W. Emerson St., Melrose, Mass. 

BROWN HASH 

2 c. cold roast beef. 2 c. cold corn beef. 
2 c. cold boiled potatoes. 2 tbsp. hot milk. 

Few drops onion juice. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Mix all ingredients thoroughly, cover and set in refrigerator until ready 
to use. 

Put into a frying pan two tablespoonfuls beef fat or butter. Spread the meat 
mixture in the frying pan and cook, without stirring, over a moderate fire for about 
thirty minutes. When browned underneath, fold over like an omelet and serve 
on hot platter. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 117 



CHARTREUSE OF CHICKEN 

Boil chicken until tender, season water highly. When cold, cut into small 
pieces of one size. Add to the chicken one bunch of celery cut into small pieces 
and set in refrigerator to get cold. Make an unsweetened jelly, using 
one-half box of gelatine to two cupfuls cold water to dissolve. Then add 
three cupfuls boiling water, one pint lemon juice, a pinch of salt, a few sprigs of 
parsley finely minced, and put into a mold to the depth of about an inch. 

Set this in refrigerator until firm. 

Place a small bowl of ice in center of mold, pour sufficient gelatine in to fill the 
mold nearly to the top of bowl, and keep this in the refrigerator until 
it hardens or congeals. The ice in bowl is taken out and hot water poured in to 
loosen bowl which is removed. Fill space with chicken and celery, moistened 
slightly with a little of the water in which the chicken was cooked. Pour over 
this the remainder of the gelatine and keep in refrigerator until time to serve. 

When ready, turn out of mold, garnish dish with parsley or crisp lettuce 
leaves and slices of lemon. Serve with Mayonnaise dressing to which has been 
added one cupful chopped nuts. 

Mrs. Mattie N. Hines, Oak St., Jacksonville, Fla. 

CHEESE CROQUETTES 

2 c. grated cheese. 1 c. bread crumbs. 

Salt to taste. 
Form into small balls and dip in egg and bread crumbs. Fry in deep, hot fat. 
Serve with salads. 

Mrs. F. C. Fehlman, 318 Union St., Warren, Pa. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

Cook together two tablespoonfuls flour, two tablespoonful butter until it 
bubbles. Then add one-half cupful milk. Stir until thick; then beat in one-third 
cupful of grated cheese, one-fourth teaspoonful salt, and a few grains of paprika. 
Remove from fire, add beaten yolks of two eggs and lastly whites of two eggs 
beaten very stiff. Put in buttered dish; bake about twenty minutes. Serve at 
once. 

Mrs. F. Shumway, 1235 N. Main St., Honesdale, Pa. 

CHICKEN MOUSSE 

Force four ounces of cold chicken through a meat chopper. Soak one table- 
spoonful granulated gelatine in one-fourth cupful cold chicken liquor. Beat well 
the yolks of three eggs, add to them gradually one cupful scalded chicken liquor 
and cook as boiled custard over hot water, stirring constantly. Add the soaked 
gelatine, stir until dissolved and strain over the chopped chicken. Season to taste 
with salt and a few grains of cayenne. Place in refrigerator until the 
mixture begins to set. Have one cupful thick cream in refrigerator where it 
will be thoroughly chilled, then beat until stiff and dry; fold in chicken mixture; 
when it begins to set, pour into a chilled border mold and place in 
refrigerator to harden. Turn out and garnish at the base with lettuce leaves. 
Fill in the center with celery and nut salad. Will serve eight. Very fine for a 
luncheon and serves as meat and salad course. 

Mrs. Matthew J. Gay, 114 East 43rd St., Kansas City, Mo. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

Use equal parts of thick white sauce and finely minced cooked chicken breast. 
Season with salt, cayenne, lemon juice, minced parsley and a few drops of onion 
juice. Cook together and spread on platter to cool. Shape into cylinders. Dip 
in eggs, eggs and crumbs again. Set in refrigerator until ready to use. 
May be made a day before wanted. Fry in deep hot fat using the frying 
basket. Serve with cream sauce. 

CREAM SAUCE 

Thicken one-half cupful cream and one-half with three tablespoonfuls of flour 
add one cupful chicken stock and three tablespoonfuls butter. Cook until smooth 
and thick; season with one-half teaspoonful salt, one-eighth teaspoonful pepper 
and a slight grating of nutmeg. 



118 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

CHILLED HERRING 

Carefully drain off the oil from one tin best Norwegian kippered herring. 
Arrange fish on platter, garnishing with sliced lemon. Set on ice in 
refrigerator to chill. With the fish, serve small bowl of Mayonnaise dressing to 
which has been added one and one-half teaspoonfuls dry mustard and one tea- 
spoonful chopped capers. 

Serve with lunch crackers, milk biscuit or toast. 

Ethel G. Hakes, Winter Park, Fla. 

CHOP SUEY (American) 

Cut fine one pound of lean beef. (If preferred, add one-half pound each of 
veal and pork to above). Saute in hot lard until brown. Add one tablespoonful 
of flour, stirring until well browned. Then add two tablespoonfuls syrup, cover 
with water and cook one hour. In separate pan, cut fine one large stalk celery 
and five or six large onions, previously cooked in hot fat until browned. Add the 
browned meat to this and cook all for one-half hour. Serve with soda crackers. 
Also very good served cold. 

Mrs. I. E. Morrison, 209 Center St., Wilkinsburg, Pa. 

CODFISH RAREBIT 

Melt one tablespoonful butter and blend with it one tablespoonful cornstarch. 
Add gradually one cupful hot milk and season with a dash of paprika. Cook until 
smooth, then add three-fourths cupful grated cheese and one cupful codfish pre- 
viously soaked in cold water and then flaked. As soon as cheese is melted, stir in 
quickly a well beaten egg, add one tablespoonful lemon juice and serve with crisp 
wafers. Mrs. J. S. Shoemaker, 252 Stewart Ave., Decatur, III. 

CORN CHOWDER 

2 c. grated green corn. 1 tbsp. butter. 

1 c. milk. 2 tbsp. flour. 

2 c. rice or vegetable stock. 1 tsp. salt. 

1 c. diced potatoes. J^ tsp. pepper. 

1 tbsp. chopped onions. }/$ tsp. paprika. 

1 tsp. parsley. 

Put on potatoes and onions and boil with stock ten minutes. Add corn, salt 
and pepper. Boil fifteen minutes. Add milk which has been heated. Mix flour 
and butter together, and boil until creamy and thick. Sprinkle with parsley and 
dust with paprika. Miss Helen White, 419 Hickory St., Warren, Pa. 

CREAM LIVER IN TOAST BOXES 

To two cupfuls cold, boiled calfs liver, add one small can French mushrooms 
and reheat in a thin cream sauce seasoned with one-fourth teaspoonful kitchen 
bouquet. Prepare toast boxes by cutting slices one and one-fourth inches thick 
from a square loaf, trimming crusts and hollowing out the insides, leaving one-half 
inch margin for sides and making bottom one-half inch thick. Toast lightly, fill 
with hot liver mixture. Pile a tablespoonful of well beaten and salted egg white 
on top of each and return to oven to brown delicately. 

Mrs. Duncan Burnet, 620 Reese St., Athens, Ga. 

FISH SAUCE 
CUCUMBER CREAM SAUCE 

Chop one cucumber fine, season with one-half teaspoon salt, one-half tea- 
spoon each of chopped parsley and onion, one tablespoon vinegar or lemon juice. 
Mix thoroughly and let drain in a colander one-half hour. 

When ready to serve, add three-fourths cup of cream chilled and beaten 
very stiff. To serve with fish. 

Mrs. L. a. Sherrod, 3021 E. 27th, Kansas City, Mo. 

FAN FAN 

Cook one-half cupful of well washed rice in a pint of milk until very soft. Stir 
in three tablespoonfuls of sugar and one well beaten egg and remove at once from 
the fire. Mix in a half cupful of assorted candied fruits (cherries, apricots and 
pineapple) and turn into a shallow, well-buttered pan to cool. Let stand over 
night in refrigerator. Cut into strips about an inch and a half wide and three long, 
dip in egg and bread crumbs and brown delicately on both sides in hot butter. 
Drain, dust with powdered sugar and serve hot. 

Mrs. R. M. Wing, 117 S. Eddy St., Ft. Scott, Kan. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 119 

FISH IN JELLY 

Take a four pound Lake Superior trout, or any other good fish. Cover it 
with two cups vinegar, and one and one-half quarts water. Add one teaspoonful 
salt, six whole black peppers, four cloves, one bay leaf, the rind of one-half lemon, 
one large onion, two celery stalks and two tablespoonful chopped parsley. Cover 
carefully and let it all boil slowly one and one-half to three-fourths of an hour, 
according to the size of fish, if large one cut it in three or four pieces. When fish 
is well done, lift out carefully, remove dark skin and middle bone, then place in 
several porcelain dishes. Be careful not to break in it too many pieces. Then 
add more vinegar to the liquor in which the fish was cooked. Make one quart of 
liquor. Heat the liquor. It must taste very sour, as it loses the flavor getting 
cold. Now strain all through strainer, then through double cheese cloth, so as to 
get it clear. Keep it hot. Now take one envelope gelatine, put it in a cup filled 
one-half full of cold water. Let it stand fifteen minutes, until well dissolved. 
Then add hot liquor and stir. Now pour over fish which must be well covered. 
Cut lemon in fine slices, also onions, a little celery. Place around fish for trim- 
mings, put in refrigerator over night. It will be nicely jellied in the 
morning. It makes two quarts. 

FROZEN CHEESE 

Rub two Neufchatel cheeses to a paste, add one cupful whipped cream, one- 
half cupful finely chopped olives, one-fourth cupful finely chopped pimentoes. 
Season with salt, cayenne, lemon juice or vinegar to taste. Soften one teaspoonful 
granulated gelatine in one tablespoonful cold water. Dissolve over hot water, 
cool and add to cheese, mix well and turn into one-half pound baking powder cans, 
previously wet with cold water. Cover with a piece of white paper, adjust covers 
and pack in ice and salt. Let stand several hours. Serve with salad course with 
toasted water crackers. 

Miss M. Cunningham, 4914 Page Blvd., St. Louis, Mo. 

HAM MOUSSE 

Soak a tablespoonful granulated gelatine in two tablespoonfuls cold water and 
dissolve in one cup scalded broth of milk. Have ready one-half cupful cold boiled 
ham which has been put through a meat grinder. Add to first mixture. Stir and 
let stand in cold water until it begins to thicken. Fold in one cupful whipped 
cream and a few grains cayenne pepper. Shape in molds and serve icy cold on 
lettuce with Mayonnaise dressing. 

Mrs. F. D. Hale, 120 S. Rock Hill Road, Webster Grove, Mo. 

HERRING, NORWEGIAN 

Procure twelve milker's herrings, soak them in water for a few hours, remove 
the milker's and keep in the ice box until needed. Remove the skins, split and 
bone the herrings, place them In a deep porcelain dish with two finely chopped 
onions, and four bay leaves. Place the milker's in a bowl and pound them with 
a spoon until smooth, add one pint of sour cream, and a gill tarragon vinegar, 
season well. Pour this cream over the piles of herrings and keep In the ice box 
for at least two days, serve in the same dish and eat them with rye bread. 
Mrs. Helen Novak, 174 Rear Main St., Pittsburg, Pa. 

HOME MADE BEEF LOAF 

3 lbs. round steak. Pepper. 

1 onion. Bread crumbs. 

Salt. Herbs. 

Ground the onion with the steak, season with salt and pepper, add one tea- 
spoonful sweet herbs ground and one cupful stale bread crumbs. Place in large 
bowl, with the hands knead the bread crumbs in. Mold in the shape of a loaf 
and put in center of pan and bake one hour In moderate oven. It must be brown 
and will need basting with a little suet melted In hot water. When cool, put in 
refrigerator until cold. Slice in thin slices for luncheon or sandwiches. 

Mrs. a. J. Briggs, 2305 Holyoke St., N. S. Pittsburg, Pa. 



120 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



JELLIED CHICKEN 

Remove the skin and bone from a cooked chicken. Pick the meat apart and 
mix dark and light meat. Remove the fat from the chicken liquor; season the 
liquor highly with salt, pepper and a little lemon juice. Cook down to about one 
cupful. Butter a mold and line the bottom and sides with slices of hard cooked 
eggs. Pack the meat in solid and set away to cool for several hours. Dip mold in 
warm water, turn out carefully and set in refrigerator until wanted 
to serve. When served, garnish platter with celery tips and lemon points. 

JELLIED CHICKEN 

Cover a good sized fowl with two quarts of cold water and add a few slices of 
carrot, some celery, a small onion cut up, a small amount of bay leaf, salt and 
pepper. After bringing quickly to the boiling point, let the meat simmer until 
tender. Chop the meat, after removing it from the bones. Cook the stock until 
reduced to one cupful, cool and remove all the fat. Soak one teaspoonful of 
gelatine in a teaspoonful of cold water and dissolve in the reheated stock. Add 
this to the meat and season to taste with salt, pepper, celery, lemon juice and 
orange juice. Pack solidly in a slightly buttered one-pound baking can and chill 
thoroughly. Remove from the tin and cut into thin slices. Garnish with pars- 
ley. 

Mrs. L. Leason, 218 W. 62nd St., Chicago, III. 

JELLIED SALMON 

Soak one tablespoonful granulated gelatine in one-half cupful cold water. 
Then dissolve by placing in a dish containing hot water. Mix with one cupful 
salad dressing, then with one can salmon minced fine, add more seasoning if neces- 
sary. Pack in mold. Chill on ice in refrigerator. Turn out on lettuce 1 aves 
and serve very cold. 

Mrs. N. C. Jones, 916 Twelfth Ave., Moltne, III. 

JELLIED TONGUE 

Boil fresh tongue till tender and remove skin. Peel and slice one lemon and 
place in a dish. Slice tongue and place over lemon. Soak two tablespoonfuls 
gelatine in one-fourth cupful cold water and dissolve in one cupful boiling water. 
Pour over meat. Place in refrigerator and serve in slices on platter. 

Amelia S. Bratton, 1709 W. 104 Place, Chicago, III. 

LAMB STEW 

Cut up the lamb into small pieces, after removing all the fat, say about two 
inch squares. Wash it well and put it over the fire with just enough cold water 
to cover it well. Let it heat gradually. It should stew gently until it is partly 
done; then add a few thin slices of salt pork, one or two onions, sliced up fine, 
some salt and pepper if needed, and two or three raw potatoes cut up into inch 
pieces. Cover it closely and stew until the meat is tender. Drop in a few made 
dumplings, made like short biscuits, cut out very small. Cook fifteen minutes 
longer. Thicken the gravy with a little flour moistened with milk. Serve. 

Mrs. F. M. Koenig, 599 Ocean Ave., Jersey City, N. J. 

THE LILLA DAY LOAF, With Variations 

3 c. cooked meat, preferably beef from the soup bone. 

1 c. raw onion. Y2 c cooked leftover potato. 

^ c. celery. H c. toasted bread crumbs. 

Above ingredients ground. 

1 egg. 1 tsp. powdered sage. 

}/^c. water. J^ tsp. grated nutmeg. 



4 c. viengar. 



2 tb sp. gelatine soaked in 
3^ c. cold water and dissolved over 
boiling water. 



Salt and pepper to taste. 
Dash of paprika. 

1 bay leaf. 

2 cloves steeped a few minutes 
in the vinegar. 

Turn meat, potato, bread crumb and seasoning into saucepan, add egg beaten 
with a little soup stock if you have it, if not, one-fourth cupful water to which is 
added vinegar, removing bay leaf and cloves, stir this into meat over fire until 
heated thoroughly and egg is set, add dissolved gelatine, remove from fire, stir in 
raw onion and celery, turn into dish, pat gently down with a spoon, turn plate over 
it and set in refrigerator, to cool and harden. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 121 

THE LILLA DAY LOAF, with Variations, Cont. 

This loaf is susceptible to infinite variations. Use the meat and vegetables 
left from soup stock and in that instance not so much liquid, if meat is allowed to 
cool in stock. If very dry baked meat is used, it is worth while to pour some 
gravy or stock over the meat, simmer it a little and let cool before grinding. But 
in no case is it good to use in this cooked onions. One may use cooked celery from 
stock, but the raw onions and celery make the loaf more wholesome, giving it a 
little crispness that is toothsome and anti-scorbutic at the same time. I have 
used this recipe for years in my own family and it has not yet caused one case of 
indigestion. 

If one wants an elaborate loaf for ornamental as well as gastronomical pur- 
poses, use chicken, one-half cupful onions and one-half cupful chopped nuts. 
Have ready six hard-boiled eggs, powder the yolks, spread a little Mayonnaise 
over the top of your loaf, over this the powdered yolks, mince the whites carefully 
and cover the loaf, dusting with salt and white pepper, pat gently with a spoon, 
garnish with parsley. 

If one wants to take the time, or if you are demonstrating this for the benefit 
of little daughter, have her fold a thick white paper, cut out a little star flower as 
for a stencil design, place it around on the loaf, sift paprika over the flower, re- 
move paper carefully and you have a wild rose pattern, which, forming a wreath 
with the parsley, makes a most appetizing bit of cold provender. 

If the table decorations are yellow, cut out paper marguerites and use the 
powdered yolks for flowers upon the background of minced whites. Or the 
minced whites make beautiful orange blossoms on the yellow background, and 
with a little stretch of the imagination nasturtium or bay leaves do not make such 
bad imitations of the orange leaf. 

If you are so fortunate as to have a nasturtium bed, this makes a most de- 
licious nasturtium loaf with the addition of one-fourth cupful of minced green 
seed pods to the celery and onion, either using the real flower or work out the 
nasturtium flower with yolk of egg tipped with paprika, garnish with tender 
nasturtium leaves. 

The genius of the cook is the only limit to the variations of this loaf as I have 
found in many years use of it. It is good for leftovers and in winter, the ubi- 
quitous dill pickle and beet helps out in decoration and garnishment. And for 
those who can use mustard in relishes, it makes an addition to the seasoning with 
the hard boiled eggs, but I have sometimes found mustard indigestible. 

But there is a trouble with the loaf, it does not keep because of the inroads 
made upon it. Son slips to the refrigerator, clasps two slices of bread around a 
slice of the loaf, retiring with a soul-satisfying sandwich. Just before bedtime, 
and folks who work after dinner will often want just a little snack of something, 
toast two slices of bread on one side, butter the other, put them together with 
generous slice of the loaf between, and you have a sandwich, which, with a glass 
of milk, will not add a single terror to your dreams, if your conscience is clear. 
LiLLA Day Monroe, 909 Harrison St., Topeka, Kan. 

LOBSTER LOAF 

Cut the meat from a large lobster; line mold with an aspic jelly mixture; 
place meat, coral and fat in layers, seasoning with salt, paprika and lemon juice. 
Cover with more jelly mixture, chill on ice in refrigerator. Unmold on water 
cress and Boston lettuce. Mrs. S. M. Watson, Tekoa, Wash. 

MACARONI IN JELLY 

Break in small pieces eight sticks of macaroni, boil rapidly in two quarts of 
salted water for twenty-five minutes. Plunge in cold water to blanch, season 
with salt, pepper and a quarter of a pound of melted cheese. 

JELLY 

Stew enough tomatoes to give a full pint of juice when strained, place on the 
fire and add one-half box gelatine that has been soaked in one-half cupful cold 
water, and the white of one egg, stir all together until gelatine is dissolved. Take 
from the fire and strain. 

Pour jelly to the depth of one inch in mold, set in refrigerator 
to harden. Decorate then with sprigs of parsley, and add the macaroni that has 
been thoroughly mixed with the renvainder of jelly. Set away in refrigerator 
until ready for use. Slice with sharp knife, and arrange on crisp lettuce 
leaves. Add Mayonnaise, if desired. 

This is an original dish and especially nice for luncheon, served with rolls. 
Mary E. Moran, 101 Boswell Ave., Norwich, Conn. 



122 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

MARBLED CHICKEN 

Chop fine, cold salt beef's tongue. Cut the meat from a three pound boiled 
chicken, season the tongue with pepper and nutmeg, and the chicken with pepper 
and celery seed. Take a brown bread mold or square bread pan, put in a layer of 
tongue, then a layer of chicken, a generous sprinkling of parsley, a layer of sliced 
hard boiled eggs, then another layer of tongue and so on until the ingredients 
are used. Cover one-half box of gelatine with one-half cupful cold water and soak 
for fifteen minutes. Add one pint of boiling chicken stock, stir until the gelatine 
is dissolved, add the juice of a lemon, a teaspoonful salt and a dash of red pepper, 
one teaspoonful of onion, scraped fine. Pour this over the meat and with a 
skewer make holes here and there, allowing the gelatine to go to the bottom of 
the mold. Stand aside over night in refrigerator and serve on lettuce leaf with 
Mayonnaise dressing. 

Mrs. James A. Wood, 39 Prospect St., Cortland, N. Y. 

MEAT LOAF JELLIED 

2 tbsp. minute gelatine. 1 pt. rich stock, well seasoned. 

1 c. cold water. Juice 1 lemon. 

1 stalk celery,^finely chopped. 1 onion, grated. 

2 c. cooked and chopped veal, chicken or other meats. 
Soak gelatine in the cold water five minutes. Add onion and celery to stock 
and after boiling a few minutes, add lemon juice, strain and pour over the soaked 
gelatine. Place in refrigerator and when it begins to jell, add the seasoned meat 
and pour in mold. Place in refrigerator to become solid and firm. 

Mrs. H. C. Smyser, 729 S. George St., York, Pa. 

METROPOLITAN FRIED CHICKEN 

1 chicken. 1 egg. 

1 c. cream. 2 slices bacon. 

1 tbsp. parsley. M c. bread crumbs. 

1 tbsp. butter. 4 tbsp. flour. 

Joint chicken, dip each piece in the beaten egg. Then roll in the bread 
crumbs and fry in the bacon fat until browned lightly, keeping in hot covered dish. 
Strain fat and add the butter rubbed smooth with the flour, stirring continually 
until the mixture is well cooked and blended. Then add the cream. Keep stir- 
ing until the gravy is smooth and thick. Then season the fried chicken to suit, 
and sprinkle with minced parsley and pour over the chicken immediately after 
placing on hot service platter. Garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley. 

Mrs. Alice J. Brower, The Metropolitan, Fort Morgan, Col. 

MINCE MEAT 
OLD AND RELIABLE 

2 tsp. salt. 
Y2 tsp. ground cloves. 
\}/2 tsp. ground cinnamon. 
}/l tsp. ground mace. 

1 tbsp. chopped citron. 

1 tbsp. orange peel (chopped) 

1 tbsp. chopped lemon peel. 

2 glasses grape jelly. 

MOLDED LAMB 
A GOOD SUMMER SUPPER DISH 

Use the rough ends of cold roast lamb or mutton for this. Remove skin 
and gristle and run through meat chopper. Then place in a mold and pour over 
aspic jelly or tomato jelly mixture. Place in refrigerator. When ready to 
serve, turn out on a large platter and surround . with heaps of cold veg- 
etables; beans, peas, tomatoes, potato cubes, carrots, or any that may be on hand. 
Garnish with parsley. 

Mrs. Duncan Burnet, 620 Reese St., Athens, Ga. 



1 c. 


chopped meat. 


3 c. 


chopped apple. 


IKc. 


raisins. 


1 c. 


English currants. 


Ic. 


extra C. sugar. 


Mc. 


New Orleans molasses. 


He. 


suet. 


Ic. 


meat liquor. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 123 

MOLDED SALMON 

Put contents of one can of salmon in a strainer and rinse thoroughly with 
hot water. Mix two-thirds tablespoon salt, one tablespoon of sugar, one-half 
tablespoon of flour, one teaspoon of mustard and a dash of red pepper. Add 
yolks of two eggs beaten to one and one-half tablespoons of melted butter, three- 
quarters cup of milk, one-quarter cup of vinegar. Combine all, except salmon 
and cook in a double boiler, over boiling water, stirring all the time until it 
thickens. Add three-quarter tablespoon gelatine soaked in two tablespoons of 
cold water five minutes. Then add all to the salmon, turn into mold, put on ice. 
When congealed, serve on lettuce leaves and sliced tomatoes with mayonnaise. 
Mrs. Marcus Bull, 722 S. Sycamore St., Petersburg, Va. 

OYSTERS ON ICE 

Select a clear piece of ice, put in a pan. With a heated flat iron, melt in 
center a space leaving about two inches thickness for walls. Drain all water out 
and fill cavity with freshly opened oysters, garnish with sliced lemon. Place a 
napkin on large platter, then ice will not slip. Cover the dish with parsley and 
nasturtium until only ice is visible. An inexpensive yet pretty dish and no 
unsightly shells. 

Mrs. L. H. Bechtel, 135 W. Oley St , Reading, Pa. 

POTTED BEEF 

Cover three pounds of shank with cold water and boil until tender. Take 
out of stock and put through meat cutter. Add one teaspoonful salt, one tea- 
spoonful pepper and two cupfuls of stock. Simmer one-half hour. Put in a dish 
and cook. Then put on ice in refrigerator and slice. This is good for luncheon. 
Chicken may be prepared in the same way. 

Mrs. T. Eraser, Box No. 14, Glendale, R. I. 

PRESSED CHICKEN 

Boil one chicken slowly in just enough salted water to cover until the meat 
can be picked easily from the bones. Chop meat, remove all gristle and skin. 
Add one teaspoonful celery seed and one-half teaspoonful pepper. Mix with 
liquid in which chicken was boiled and pack in mold or crock. Cover with wax 
paper or cloth and weigh down with some heavy object. Chill over night in 
refrigerator and serve in thin slices or as filling for sandwiches. 

J. H. Miller, Vandergrift, Pa. 

PRESSED CHICKEN 

4 lb. chicken. 2 tbsp. gelatine. 

1 c. heavy cream. 2 c. hot chicken broth. 

Salt and pepper to taste. Minced chicken. 

Boil medium sized chicken until so tender that the meat falls from bones, 
seasoning well with salt and pepper. Separate dark meat from light and cut in 
very small pieces. Mix dark meat with one cupful hot broth to which has been 
added one-half of the gelatine that has been dissolved in cold water. Wet indi- 
vidual molds, fill half full of mixture and place in refrigerator to thicken. Then 
mix the remaining broth and gelatine with white meat. Whip cream stiff and 
when mixture thickens, beat in the cream. Place this on top of the dark meat 
that has become firm. Put it into the refrigerator to have ready to serve. Serve 
with following sauce: 

114 tsp. sugar. 1^ tsp. each salt and pepper. 

l}i tbsp. butter. i^ tsp. mustard. 

IJ^ tbsp. fiour. 3 tbsp. lemon juice. 

Cream sugar, flour, butter, mustard, salt and pepper. Add lemon juice and 
boil. _ When thick, mix in the stiffly beaten yolks of the eggs, allow to cool and 
beat in a cupful of whipped cream. It should be stiff enough so it will not run. 
Place a tablespoonful of this on each mold and sprinkle with chopped nuts. Gar- 
nish with beats, cut in tiny hearts or fancy forms. 

Mrs. H. B. Hurd, Madison, Minn. 



124 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 



SALMON CROQUETTES 

1^ c. flaked salmon. Dash cayenne pepper. 

1 c. thick white sauce. 1 tsp. lemon juice. 

Salt. 
Add sauce to salmon, then add seasoning. Spread on a platter to cool. 
Shape, dip in crumbs, egg and crumb again and set in refrigerator. They may 
be made the day before wanted to use. 

Fry in deep fat and serve on hot platter with sprigs of parsley and lemon 
points. 

SALMON LOAF 

Pick over and mince a one-pound can of salmon. Place in a double boiler 
the following ingredients: 

Y2 tbsp. salt. 2 tbsp. butter. 

13^ tbsp. granulated sugar. ^ c. milk. 

}/2 tbsp. flour. J^ c. vinegar. 

1 level tsp. mustard. 2 beaten yolks of eggs. 

When cooked and thickened add one tablespoonful gelatine, soaked in one 
tablespoonful cold water and the salmon. Mix thoroughly and mold in a buttered 
granite bread pan. Place on ice in refrigerator and allow to stand six hours. 
If used for luncheon, it would be well to make it the night before or 
if for a supper to make it in the morning and allow to mold during the day. 

THE DRESSING 

1 c. whipped cream. 2 tbsp. vinegar. 

J4 tsp. salt. 1 tbsp. granulated sugar. 

Dash of paprika. 1 cucumber. 

Have the cream and cucumber thoroughly chilled. Stir the salt, sugar, 
paprika and diced cucumber into the beaten cream and add vinegar slowly to 
avoid curdling. 

This loaf can be served on a platter, sliced and arranged on lettuce leaves and 
the dressing put in a bowl to be served by the hostess or be passed around. 

SCALLOPED CHICKEN 

Cook a chicken, salt, and when cold cut into small pieces with the scissors. 
Put a thin layer of cracker crumbs in a baking dish, then a layer of chicken, then 
a layer of white sauce. Continue until all the chicken is used. Last layer is to 
be cracker crumbs. Pour on some of the broth that chicken was cooked in and 
bake forty-five minutes. 

SHRIMP DELIGHT 

Melt two tablespoonfuls butter, add two tablespoonfuls flour, one cupful thin 
cream and one-third cupful stewed and strained tomatoes to which has been added 
a few grains of soda. Bring to the boiling point and add one cupful finely cut 
cheese, one egg slightly beaten, one and one-half cupfuls shrimps broken in pieces. 
Season to suit taste with salt, mustard and cayenne pepper. Serve on crackers or 
toast when cheese is thoroughly melted. This should be cooked in a double 
boiler or chafing dish. 

Mrs. William A. Smith, 5 Maple Court, Newark, N. Y. 

SOUPS 

The art of soup making is more easily mastered than it first appears. One 
may with but little expense keep on hand essentials for the making of good soup. 
The soup kettle should receive small pieces of beef (roasted, broiled or stewed) 
veal, carcasses of fowl or chicken, chop bones, bones left from lamb roast and all 
trimmings and bones which a careful housewife should see are sent from the mar- 
ket with her order. Cover the materials to be used with cold water, let heat slowly 
to the boiling point and let simmer for two hours or longer if uncooked materials 
are added. Add half an onion cut in bits, half a small carrot cut in bits, a stalk 
of celery, a sprig of parsley, six pepper corns and a scant teaspoonful of salt. Let 
cook an hour, then strain oflp the broth. Set aside in a cool place and when cold, 
skim the fat. Put into several small jars so that the entire amount is not dis- 
turbed each time some is used, and keep in a Bohn Syphon refrigerator as a foun- 
dation for clear soup, bouillon, consomme or cream soup. 



HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 125 

SPANISH STEAK 

Get a round steak two and one-half or three inches thick. Place in roaster 
with a piece of suet (small) and let bake for one-half hour. Then add one-half 
cupful hot water, season well and cover steak with a layer of sliced Spanish onions. 
Bake fifteen minutes, then cover with a layer of canned tomatoes and season 
again. Bake fifteen minutes again then sprinkle with about three tablespoonfuls 
flour. Return to oven and bake until tender. Do not strain the gravy. 

Miss J. Jarvais, 701 Twenty-sixth Ave. N. E., Minneapolis, Minn. 

STUFFED HAM 

Select a well shaped ham, wash thoroughly. Put in hot water and boil 
several hours. Set off fire and let cool in water in which it was boiled. When 
cool, trim and then cut lengthwise to the bone about an inch apart and stuff with 
the following: 

1 tsp. black pepper. 1 tsp. celery seed. 

3 tbsp. butter. 1 tsp. cinnamon. 

J^ c. ham liquor. Yl tsp. cloves. 

1 tsp. allspice. Few grains mustard. 

1 qt. bread crumbs. 3 eggs. 

Few grains cayenne. Enough vinegar to make dress- 

ing soft. 

Stuff in incisions of ham with strings to hold shape. Bake in oven until 
brown. When cold, remove strings, place in refrigerator and do not eat 
until next day. By keeping cool in the refrigerator this will keep perfectly 
until eaten up. Mrs. Chas. Price Jr., Box 484, Meridian, Miss. 

SUMMER RAGOUT 

1 pt. diced Irish potato after boiling and cooling. 
1 pt. diced cucumber after peeling. 
Yi gill finely minced Bermuda onion soaked in 
1 gill apple vinegar. 

1 c. white sauce made from 2 tbsp. butter, 2 tbsp. flour, 1 c. milk 
"Yl gill finely cut pimento. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 
Mix all lightly and heap in centen of platter. 

PART TWO 

Thinly sliced meat, either lamb, chicken, beef or tongue. Place in festoon 
around the meat mixture and dress with the following: 

To one gill apple vinegar add one bay leaf, one slice lemon, one slice onion, 
and four cloves. Let simmer ten minutes. Strain and add one level teaspoonful 
flour in enough cold vinegar to make one gill when cooked. Pour thinly and 
evenly over the meat. 

PART THREE 

Dress eight boiled eggs as follows: Boil twenty minutes, putting on in boil- 
ing water. Cool and shell; cut crosswise. Remove yolks and mash on a plate 
with a fork till smooth. Add two teaspoonfuls butter, one-half teaspoonful 
mustard, three small finely diced pickles, twelve pecan kernels cut fine, one tea- 
spoonful paprika, dash red pepper, salt and a bit of vinegar to work it in and 
stuff the whites cut in halves. Surround your dish with parsley and the eggs 
and put on ice in refrigerator till supper. Several hours is better. Ideal for 
Sunday when the maid is out. 
Mrs. H. C. Gibson, Gibson Glen, Epworth Heights, Ludington, Mich. 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER DISH 
SPICED OX HEART 

Select nice large ox hearts. Wash in cold water thoroughly. Pour boiling 
water over these, let cook slowly until tender, which takes five or six hours, add 
salt half hour before removing from fire. Take from fire and let cool in same 
water in which it was cooked over night. Next morning, add to three-fourths of 
a pint of cider vinegar (diluted if too strong) one teaspoonful of whole cloves, 
about ten pieces of stick cinnamon, one cupful sugar, salt and pepper to taste. 
Boil and take the cold hearts, put in a stone jar, and pour boiling vinegar over 
them. Chill. Let stand in refrigerator for three days. It should keep at least 
a month. 

Mrs. B. F. Saunders, 10 S. Third St., Richmond, Va. 



126 HOUSEWIVES FAVORITE RECIPES 

SWISS STEAK 

Pound into a thick steak as much flour as it will hold. Put in casserole and 
brown well in melted butter. Add one chopped onion and fry slightly. Season, 
add boiling water, cover and let simmer for two hours. 

Miss Esther Blood, Kansas, III. 

TOMATO SOUP 

1 qt. tomatoes. 2 onions, medium size. 

3 pts. water. Salt and pepper. 

Stew slowly three-quarters of an hour one tablespoon sugar, dash cayenne 
pepper. Stir two tablespoonsful of flour and three tablespoonsful butter 
together and put in soup. Just before serving add two-thirds cup of cream. 
Add cream only to the amount you serve which is one tablespoon to each dish. 
Mrs. L. H. Watts, 406 Produce Bldg., Kansas City, Mo. 

VEAL BIRDS 

Select slices of veal from the leg, cut as thinly as possible. Remove bone, 
skin and fat. Cut in pieces two and one-half inches long by one and one-half 
inches wide, each piece making a bird. Chop trimmings of veal and a small 
piece of salt pork and add one-half their measure of finely crushed crackers. Sea- 
son with pepper, cayenne, poultry seasoning, lemon juice and onion juice. Moisten 
with beaten egg and water. Spread each piece with a thin layer of stuffing, 
taking care not to have the mixture come too close to the edge. Roll and fasten 
with toothpicks. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and set in refrigerator until 
ready to use. 

Dredge with flour and saute in hot butter until a golden brown. Add cream 
to cover meat and cook slowly twenty-five minutes or until tender. Serve on a 
hot platter. Garnish with parsley. 

VIRGINIA HAM 

Procure a twelve pound Virginia ham. Remove the cloth and paper, brush 
off the ashes. Soak it over night in plenty of cold water. Slowly boil it in plain 
water for two hours. Drain, remove skin, bone and trim lightly. Insert about 
fifteen cloves on the fat side of ham, cover the ham with brown sugar and place 
it in a roasting pan with some spices, one sliced carrot, two sliced onions and some 
celery branches. Set it in a moderate oven for one hour, sprinkle some water over 
the ham once in a while, while roasting. Remove the ham. Completely wrap 
the ham with an ordinary bread or pie dough. Leave an aperture on the top, 
chimney like, and set in a slow oven for half an hour. 

On the other hand, you have removed the fat from the pan where the ham was 
baked, strain the gravy and pour this through the aperture you have left in the 
dough. Cook forty-five minutes longer. Let cool off and keep in refrigerator all 
the time when not needed. 

Mrs. L. Lescarboura, 321 Alice Street, Pittsburg, Pa. 

WAVERLY COLLARED BEEF 

Cover a six pound piece of the thick part of the brisket by keeping it in a 
brine strong enough to float an egg, adding one tablespoonful salt petre, one of 
brown sugar, and a saltspoonful of red pepper. Leave it in five or six days in 
summer; eight or ten in winter. Use an earthen crock and turn the meat every 
two or three days. Grate two large carrots, a good sized stick of horseradish and 
chop fine a good sized bunch of parsley. Mix all together and spread a thick layer 
on the corned beef, keeping it well to the middle as it presses out when you roll. 
If your meat is not long or difficult to roll nicely, cut a few pockets in it and fill 
with the dressing; then roll very tightly, fastening with skewers and binding with 
strong string round and round. Any of the dressing that has squeezed out, press 
back into the open ends of roll. Remove skewers, then tie up in cheesecloth. 
Cover with cold water, bring slowly to a simmer and let it cook atthis pointfour 
hours. Remove cheesecloth, put meat on tray, place a heavy weight on it and 
leave over night. Cut off string. Serve ice cold, cutting thin slices off the end, 
showing yellow, white and green dressing. This makes an attractive looking 
dish, and put in refrigerator will keep for a week. 

Mrs. W. C. Melville, 611 W. 33rd St., Kansas City, Mo. 



W 19 



.^^^^^ ''M^: .♦^-V V 







♦I*"' ^ '- '•• 




















u ♦ - 







• ^J> 



V^^ 




V « 










•» o 






O *..0 .V, 







l'^ ... 



















.G'^ '^'^^ 



^ . • " • • 



0^ .» 



»♦ <L^ «rk *- 




-*.••••■/* "V'^^''/' '\*'-"'\**' '%-■•• , 









% c-?^* »V(\^^a:^ ^^ .^^ •^^ 



,-4-" .' 



)h' 



-^^0^ 



c" ♦:« 
























<> *'.7»' .0^ 


































co^*i.;^.>o /\-^.\ .^°^i^^X ^< 





%♦ .t^ 








v^..*:^^'* ^<^^ ^0 







/\-^<X co\*^;;^.> ./\.4a^:tX 

.0 



i. "<^ c*^ ♦^ 






0*. 



Wm 



iii 

III? 



i^i^^Si i^^^ 



iii i 
ssjiiiw ilia 

iiiill s 




