TX 



IN MEMORIAM 
BERNARD MOSES 




RECIPES 

GRANDVIEW 

CONGREGATIONAL 

CHURCH 



PUBLISHED BY 

THE LADIES' AID SOCIETY 
1916 



Price, 50 Cents 



RECIPES 



GRANDVIEW 

CONGREGATIONAL 

CHURCH 




PUBLISHED BY 

THE LADIES' AID SOCIETY 
1916 



Price, 50 Cents 



AGRIC, 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Preface 5 

How to Preserve a Husband 6 

Breads, Hot Breads and Breakfast Breads 7 

Cakes, Cookies and Doughnuts 15 

Cheese and Eggs 26 

Drinks 27 

Fish and Oysters 28 

Icings, Jellies and Jams 30 

Meats 34 

Puddings, Pies and Desserts 42 

Pickles 53 

fealads 59 

Salad Dressings 65 

Soups 87 

Vegetables 69 

Casserole and Chafing Dishes 75 

Dainties, Candies and Christmas Cakes 78 

Household Hints 85 

Time Table for Cooking 90 

New Recipes 92 



REWARD MOSES 



SERVICE FIRST 



FORTY-FIFTH YEAR 



THE 

EDWARD E. FISHER 

COMPANY 



FUNERAL ESTABLISHMENT 

MOTOR AMBULANCE SERVICE 

NOS. 213 AND 215 EAST BROAD STREET 



TELEPHONES 



MAIN 18 - CIT. 2018 



LIMOUSINES FOR ALL OCCASIONS 



DIRECTORS 

EDWARD E. FISHER, PRESIDENT GEORGE WEIR, SECRETARY 

FRED. D. CONNOLLEY CHAS. W. BRYSON 

D. V. WILSON 
JEWETT IDE CLARK, ASSISTANT 



9027^4 



Compliments of 
a Friend 



Everybody 
Knows 



WEGENER'S 



Established 

1892 



Wegener's Products have been used by the house-wife for 
nearly 25 years. 




Wegener's 

TAWCO 

COFFEE 

Crisp and tender 
fresh from our own 
roasters. 




Wegener's 

Quality 

TEAS 

Select Pickings- 
new season's pack 
extra choice quality. 



WEGENER'S CERTIFIED EXTRACTS 
WEGENER'S CERTIFIED SPICES 

Have stood the test of years. They are the only certified Extracts and 

Spices sold. 

Do you know there is such a thing as Pure Ammonia ? There is 
WEGENER'S AMMONIA is certified 1 per cent. Ammonia. Read 
the label carefully. 

Wegener tries to serve you honestly with the best possible goods 
that's why we certify the goods on each package. It will pay you to 
insist that your dealer supply you with Wegener's. 

THEODORE A. WEGENER 

Importer and Manufacturer 
962-964-966 N. High St. COLUMBUS, O. 959-961-963 N. Pearl St. 



PREFACE 



The ladies of Grandyiew and Marble Cliff, after care- 
ful preparation, take pleasure in offering their book to the 
public. 

It was their endeavor to collect such a variety of 
carefully tested recipes as to make the book a help to all. 

The committee is indebted to the ladies of both vil- 
lages and to many friends for valuable contributions and 
suggestions. They are also indebted to the advertisers 
who have assisted in sharing the expense of publication 
and we should patronize them whenever possible. 

The signature following a recipe does not indicate 
the recipe original, but that it is recommended and en- 
dorsed. . 



How to Preserve a Husband 



A good many husbands are utterly spoiled by mismanagement. 
Some wpmen>go>|aj>out it as if their husbands were balloons and 
)?ow thefn.'ub.jc 1 p l <litrs keep them constantly in hot water; others let 
them (freeze by indifference and carelessness; some keep them in a 
stew'Vy 1 atitatirig/ways and words. Others roast them; some keep 
tlrerri jri fickle* a^ theiT' lives. It cannot be supposed that their hus- 
tands will be tender and good managed in this way, but they are 
really delicious when properly treated. 

In selecting your husband you should not be guided by the silvery 
appearance as in buying a mackerel, nor by the golden tints as if 
you wanted salmon. 

Be sure to select him yourself, as tastes differ. Do not go to 
market for him as the best are always brought to your door. It is 
far better to have none unless you will patiently learn how to cook. 

A preserving kettle of the finest porcelain is best. See that 
the linen you wrap him in is nicely washed and mended, with the re- 
quired number of buttons and strings tightly sewed on. Tie him to 
the kettle by strong silk cord called comfort, as the one called duty 
is apt to be weak. 

They are apt to fly out of the kettle, and be burned and crusty 
on the edges, since, like crabs and lobsters, you have to cook them 
alive. 

Make a clean, steady fire out of love, neatness and cheerfulness. 
Set him as near this as seems to agree with him. 

If he sputters and fizzes do not be anxious; some husbands do 
this until they are quite done. Add a little sugar in the form of what 
confectioners call kisses but no pepper or vinegar whatever. A lit- 
tle spice improves them. Do not stick any sharp instruments into 
him to see if he is becoming tender. Stir him gently, watching the 
while lest he lie too close to the kettle and so become useless. You 
cannot fail to know when he is done. 

If thus treated you will find him very digestible, agreeing nicely 
with you and the children, and he will keep as long as you want, un- 
less you become careless and set him in too cold a place. 



RECIPES 



Breads, Hot Breads and Breakfast 

Breads 



"Dinner may be pleasant, 

So may social tea; 

But yet me thinks the breakfast 

Is best of all the three." 



YEAST BREAD. 

Boil 1 pint of milk; add 1 pint water; when liquid is luke warm 
add 1 cake compressed yeast dissolved in a little warm water; 1 table- 
spoon lard; 1 tablespoon sugar; 1 tablespoon salt; add flour just suf- 
ficient to knead. Knead lightly 15 or 20 minutes; place in bowl; grease 
top with lard or butter and place in a warm even temperature to 
rise until it doubles itself (about 3 hours); mould into loaves; let 
stand about an hour and then bake one-half to one hour, depending 
upon size of loaf. This can be made with 2 potatoes cooked and 
mashed instead of milk if preferred. Tested. 

CORN BREAD. 

One pint sour milk; add to this 1 heaping teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in a little water; 1 egg; 2 tablespoonfuls of lard; 1 teaspoonful 
salt; 2 tablespoons sugar; 1 cup wheat flour; enough cornmeal to 
make cake like dough. Mrs. Paul Springer. 

CORN BREAD. 

One cup cornmeal; ^ cup flour; 1 egg; Y^ cup sugar; IJ^ teaspoon 
baking powder; 2 teaspoons butter; 1 cup sweet milk. Mrs. J. F. 
Daymude. 

CORN BREAD. 

Two cups flour; 1 cup cornmeal; 1 teaspoon salt; 2 teaspoons 
baking powder, 4 tablespoons sugar; 1 tablespoon butter or lard; 2 
eggs; milk to make batter as for cake. Mrs. Clarence Wing. 

7 



FOR QUICK DELIVERY OF 

GROCERIES.COUIMTRY PRODUCE 
AND FEED STUFF 



IVL E. DAVIS 



FINE GROCERIES 
TABLE DELICACIES 



BELL HILLTOP 254 
CITIZENS 13024 



MARBLE CLIFF, OHIO 

If I please you, tell others; if not, tell me. 



HIGGIN ALL-METAL 

WINDOW SCREENS 

ARE DURABLE, HANDSOME 

AND CONVENIENT 



HIGGIN ALL-METAL 
WEATHER STRIPS 

ARE 
DUST AND AIR PROOF 



J. T. DAYMUDE 

AGENT 

CALL HILLTOP 538 COLUMBUS, OHIO 



WEISHEIMER BROS 

MERCHANT MILLERS 

AND DEALERS IN 

GRAIN, FEED, AND IDEAL SCRATCH FEED 
USE JEWEL FLOUR 



CORN BREAD 

One egg; one teaspoon soda to 1 pint milk; 5^ teacup 'flour; a 
little salt; add cornmeal until thick; bake in buttered pan. Mrs. Fred 
Nesbitt. 

FRUIT BREAD. 

One cup of granulated sugar; 1 egg; 1 cup of sweet milk; 1 cup 
of nuts; 4 cups of flour; 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder; let stand 
20 minutes; bake 45 minutes, slow; loaf pan. Mrs. Rhoads. 

BRAN BREAD. 

One quart bran; lj pints white flour (scant); 1 pint raisins (^ 
box); \y?. pints sour milk; 1^ teaspoons soda; 1 cup Orleans mo- 
lasses. Bake in slow oven for about 45 minutes. Mrs. L. K. Clark. 

BRAN BREAD. 

Put \y-z cups wheat flour into sifter; add 1 heaping teaspoonful 
of soda and ^ teaspoon salt and sift into a large bowl; then add 2 
cups coarse bran flour and mix well; then add 4 good tablespoons 
syrup and 1 pint of sour or buttermilk or milk and water; mix well. 
Dough must be quite soft. Bake in very slow oven for about 80 
minutes. Mrs. Webster. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Half cup sugar; 2 cups graham flour; 1 cup white flour J/ cup 
corn meal; ^ cup molasses; 1 teaspoon salt; 1 pint sour milk or 
cream; into which beat 1 teaspoon baking soda; mix thoroughly. 
Use well greased pound baking powder cans, filling only half full of 
the batter. Bake one hour in slow oven. Makes four loaves. Mrs. 
Penny. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

One quart graham flour; 1 cup Duff's Orleans molasses; 1 cup rai- 
sins; 1 pint buttermilk; 1 teaspoon salt; 1 teaspoon baking powder; 1 
teaspoon soda; put salt and baking powder in flour; add raisins, then 
molasses, then the milk in which the soda has been dissolved; stir 
well; put in pound baking powder cans and bake one hour in slow 
oven. This makes 4 loaves. Mrs. Emilie Frankenberg. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Two and one-quarter cups of flour; 1 cup of milk; 2 teaspoons 
baking powder; 1 egg; 2 tablespoons sugar; 2 tablespoons butter; 1 
cup raisins; rub butter and sugar together; add beaten egg, milk and 
salt; last add flour and 2 teaspoons of baking powder; sprinkle with 
butter, sugar and cinnamon. Mrs. Fred Nesbitt. 

QUICK COFFEE CAKE. 

Four cups of flour; 1 cup of sugar; 2 teaspoons baking powder; 
2 eggs; 2 cups of milk; 2 tablespoons melted butter. After it is partly 
baked spread melted butter upon it and sugar and cinnamon. Mrs. 
Eva Jaeger. 



JOHNNY CAKE. 

Two-thirds teaspoon soda; 3 tablespoons sugar; 1 teaspoon cream 
tartar; 1 egg; 1 cup sweet milk; 6 tablespoons Indian meal; 3 table- 
spoons flour and little salt. Mrs. Stephen Stepanian. 

NUT BREAD. 

One cup sugar; 3 teaspoons baking powder; 3^4 cups flour; j 
pound or 1 cup of nuts, chopped fine; 1J4 cups milk; let raise 20 min- 
utes; bake in slow oven, 45 minutes. Mrs. Harry E. Smith. 

NUT BREAD. 

One cup of granulated sugar; 1 egg; 4 cups of flour; 4 teaspoons 
baking powder, sifted together; 1J4 cups of milk; 1 cup of nuts, 
chopped coarse; bake in a loaf and eat with butter. Mrs. W. T. 
Eaton. 

NUT BREAD. 

One cup chopped nuts; 1 cup sweet milk; 1 cup soft sugar; 1 
egg; 3J^ cups of flour; 2 teaspoons of baking powder; 1 teaspoon 
of salt; mix together and let stand 30 minutes; bake in slow oven 
45 minutes Adelaide Conrad. 

GRAHAM NUT BREAD'. 

One and one-half pints graham flour; y^ pint white flour; 1 tea- 
spoon salt; 1J4 teaspoon soda; 1 pint sour milk; 1 cup brown sugar; 1 
cup of nuts or raisins or both; bake in very slow oven for an hour 
and a half. Mrs. L. B. Allen. 

OATMEAL BREAD. 

One cup rolled oats; y 2 cup molasses; l / 2 tablespoonful lard; 2 
cups boiling water. When cool add 1 teaspoonful salt; 1 cake com- 
pressed yeast; 4 heaping cups of white flour. Let raise in mixing 
crock, then put in pans and let raise until ready to bake; then bake 
40 minutes. Enough for 2 loaves in oblong pans. Mrs. Evelyn L. 
Rood. 

SOUR CREAM GINGERBREAD. 

One egg; 1 cup brown sugar; 1/4 cup sour cream; 2 teaspoons soda; 
2 teaspoons each cinnamon and ginger; Y 2 teaspoon salt; 2 cups flour. 
Bake 30 minutes in moderate oven. Mrs. J. T. Daymude. 

GINGERBREAD. 

Three and one-half cups flour; ^ cup butter and lard; 2 /z cup of 
sugar; 1 cup molasses; l / 2 cup boiling water; 2 eggs; 2 teaspoons soda 
sifted in flour; 1 teaspoon ginger; 2 teaspoons cinnamon; y 2 teaspoon 
allspice, very fine. Mrs. Mattie Newhouse. 

10 



NUT GINGERBREAD. 

Cream ^ cup butter, ^ cup lard and 1 cup sugaf ; add 1 cup mo- 
lasses; 1 teaspoon ginger; 1 teaspoon cinnamon; 1 cup chopped al- 
monds; 1 cup sour cream; 1 teaspoon soda; enough flour for soft 
dough. Roll out 1 inch thick, cut in squares and cover tops with 
sugar and chopped nuts. Bake in quick oven. Mrs. Harry Beech. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

Three cups flour; 3 teaspoons baking powder; 1 teaspoon salt; 2 
tablespoons lard; milk to mix. Sift together the flour, salt and bak- 
ing powder. Blend fat with flour with finger tips, then mix to very 
soft dough with milk. Turn dough onto well floured board and roll 
about 24-inch thick. Cut into biscuit- and lay them not touching each 
other. Bake in a quick oven, 12 or 14 minutes. Mrs. W. H. Tremaine. 

BISCUIT. 

One quart flour; 1 pint cream; 3 teaspoons baking powder; ^ 
teaspoon salt. Bake in quick oven. Miss Faye Ustic. 

DREAM BISCUIT. 

Two cups flour; 2 tablespoons butter; 4 level teaspoons baking 
powder; 1 teaspoon salt; 24 cup milk or enough to make a soft dough. 
Drop with a teaspoon and bake 10 minutes in hot oven. Mrs. Eliza- 
beth Ustic. 

LUNCH ROLLS. 

Four level tablespoons butter; 2 tablespoons sugar; 1 egg beaten 
light, and fill cup with milk; 2^4 cups flour; Z l / 2 tablespoons baking 
powder; l / 2 tablespoon salt. Roll out, cut in rounds, butter and fold 
over like Parker House rolls; bake in quick oven. Mrs. Harry E. 
Smith. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Boil l*/2 pints milk and **r in earthen ware mixing bowl; add 
1 heaping tablespoon sugar; 1 heaping tablespoon butter and lard or 
all lard and salt. Let stand until it is almost luke warm. Dissolve 
1 cake compressed yeast in 1 tablespoon water and add flour enough 
to make it stiff enough to knead. Knead at least 15 minutes. Be 
careful not to make it too stiff. Place back in botwl, grease the top 
and let it rise about 3 hours or until it doubles itself. Roll out to 24- 
inch thick, cut with biscuit cutter. Take a knife and crease the center 
of each one; fold with the crease out and use melted butter to grease 
the inside. Place in pans and let rise again. Bake in a rather quick 
oven. Keep in warm even temperature during all the process. Too 
much heat is more dangerous than a chill. These should be ready to 
eat in about 5 hours or less. Mrs. P. S. Skeele. 

HOT ROLLS. 

Three-fourths quart of flour; salt; 1 tablespoon lard; about 1 cup 
luke warm milk; 24 cup warm water; 24 cake of compressed yeast; 2 
teaspoons sugar; rise 1 hour; work into small rolls and let rise 
twice their bulk. Mrs. C. Wilkinson. 

11 



HOT CROSS BUNS. 

Two cups milk; ^ cup sugar; % cup butter; 3 eggs; y 2 tablespoon 
salt; 1 cake compressed yeast; boil milk; add sugar and butter and 
let cool. Then add the beaten eggs, salt and yeast which previously 
dissolved in 2 tablespoons water and flour enough to knead. Be care- 
ful and not make it too stiff. Knead about 20 minutes and put aside in 
warm place until it doubles itself. Break off buns and place an 
inch apart. Let rise again and cut cross in top of each one just be- 
fore baking. When done and while hot frost (especially fill the 
cross) with XXXX sugar moistened with cream. Can add raisins 
if you care too. Mrs. P. S. Skeele. 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD. 

Scald y 2 pint milk; add y 2 pint of water and 1/2 teaspoonful of 
salt. When lukewarm add 1 compressed yeast cake dissolved m 
warm or cool water. Now add 3 half-pint cups of sifted whole wheat 
flour and beat for five minutes. Cover and let it stand in a warm place 
for two hours. Then add slowly 3 more half-pints and knead for 
ten minutes. Divide into two loaves; put in greased pans; cover and 
let rise for 1 hour or until light. Bake for 45 minutes. Mrs. J. E. 
Ryder. 

VIRGINIA SPOON BREAD. 

Here's a delicate and delicious bread that is easily made. A 
pint of the milk must be heated to the boiling point and have stirred 
into it the corn meal and salt. Cook for five minutes, then beat the 
butter and half a cupful of the cold milk into the mush, and, after 
adding the eggs, beat well once more. Gradually beat in the rest 
of the milk. Put the mixture into a well-buttered granite or tin dish 
and bake for half an hour in rather a hot oven. And be particular 
to serve at once in the baking dish. Too many good things are 
ruined simply through a little carelessness in this respect. One quart 
sweet milk; 1 cupful white corn meal; 1 teaspoon salt; 2 well-beaten 
eggs; 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

SALT RISING BREAD. 

At Noon Scald 2 tablespoons corn meal with rather hot milk. 

Next Morning Take 1 pint very warm water; 54 teaspoon salt; 
y 2 tsp. sugar; soda size of pea; thicken, then beat in raised corn meal; 
put in air-tight vessel; keep warm. 

Three quarts flour; \ l / 2 pints warm water; 1 tablespoon of sugar; 
y 2 tablespoon salt; lard size of egg. Make up rather soft; put in 
pans soon as through kneading; put lard on top of loaf; keep warm, 
let rise, Bake 35 minutes. Nell McKee. 

BRAN GEMS. 

Two cups bran; 1 cup white flour; 1 teaspoon of salt; 3 table- 
spoons Orleans molasses; 1 teaspoon soda; 1J/2 cups buttermilk; 1 
tablespoon of butter. Bake in very slow oven for one hour. Mrs. 
F. B. Allen. 

12 



GRAHAM WAFERS. 

One egg, well beaten; 1 tablespoon melted butter; 1 tablespoon 
sugar; $4 cup sweet milk; 1 cup graham flour; 2 teaspoons baking 
powder; salt. Tested. 

POTATO MUFFINS. 

Boil 3 potatoes and mash; add 1 tablespoon butter; 1 tablespoon 
sugar; 1 tablespoon salt; 3 well-beaten eggs; 1 cake Fleischman's 
compressed yeast; flour to make a stiff dough; let rise until light. 
Pinch off portions and put in muffin pans. Let rise again and bake in 
quick oven. Mrs. J. Van R. Gardner. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

One cup graham flour; 1 cup white flour; y^ cup sugar; 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder; 1 teaspoon salt; 1 cup milk; 1 egg; 1 table- 
spoon melted butter. Bake 20 minutes. One-half cup chopped dates 
is good added. Mrs. P. A. McCarty. 

RICE MUFFINS. 

One cup cooked rice; 1 cup sweet milk; 2 eggs; 2 tablespoons 
melted butter; y 2 cup sugar; 2 teaspoons baking powder; enough flour 
to make a batter; beat hard. This makes twenty Mrs. Walter 
Whissen. 

WHEAT MUFFINS. 

Two cups flour; 1 teaspoon salt; 3 tablespoons melted butter; 1 
to 1^4 cups milk; 2 teaspoons baking powder; 2 tablespoons sugar; 1 
egg. Directions for preparing: Sift together flour, salt and baking 
powder, then add well beaten egg, sugar, melted butter and milk. 
Stir well. Bake quickly (20 minutes.) Mrs. Rains. 

MUFFINS. 

One scant cup sugar; 1 egg; 1 tablespoon melted butter; 1 pint 
sweet milk; 3 cups flour; 3 tablespoons baking powder; 1 teaspoon 
salt. Mrs. Emmet F. Dwyer. 

MUFFINS. 

One tablespoon sugar; 1 tablespoon butter; 1 egg; 1 cup sweet 
milk; \ l /t cups flour; 2 teaspoons baking powder. If sour milk is 
used add 54 teaspoon soda. Bake in greased muffin pans. Add 54 
teaspoon salt. Mrs. William Markel. 

BRAN MUFFINS. 

One cup of bran; 1 cup of graham flour;! cup of white flour; 3 
teaspoons baking powder; 1 teaspoon salt; 2 tablespoons sugar; 2 
tablespoons molasses; 1 egg, well beaten; milk enough to mix well. 
Bake slowly until brown. Mrs. H. Semans. 

13 



FEATHER MUFFINS. 

Two tablespoons lard; 2 tablespoons sugar; 2 yolks eggs; 1 cup 
milk; 2 cups flour; 2 teaspoons baking powder; Y 2 teaspoon salt; 
2 whites of eggs, well beaten. Bake 15 or 20 minutes. This makes a 
dozen large muffins. Mrs. J. J. Glenn. 

OLD FASHIONED BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Into an earthen crock put 2 cups sour milk, teaspoon salt, y*, cake 
compressed yeast, a sufficient amount of buckwheat flour to make 
a thick batter. Set in a warm place to rise over night. In the 
morning add J^ teaspoon of soda. If the batter is too thick, thin with 
water. Buttermilk, sweet milk or water may be substituted for sour 
milk. Buckwheat cakes to be light and crisp should be served imme- 
diately from a hot griddle. Mrs. Will Butterworth. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

Two cups sour milk; 1 egg; 1 tablespoon sugar; J^ teaspoon soda; 
flour for smooth batter. Tested. 

CORN MEAL BATTER CAKES. 

One egg; 2 cups buttermilk; 1 heaping tablespoon sugar; 1 tea- 
spoon salt; Yz teaspoon soda; y-z cup flour; 2 tablespoons melted but- 
ter, and corn meal enough to make thin batter. Tested. 

CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Half cup corn meal; 1^ cups wheat flour; 1 tablespoon sugar; 1 
teaspoon salt; 2 teaspoons baking powder; 1 egg; milk to make bat- 
ter. Sift together the two flours, salt, sugar and baking powder. 
Add egg and milk; beat thoroughly and cook at once on hot griddle 
lightly greased Mrs. W. H. Tremaine. 

CORN MEAL MUSH. 

Have boiling hot water; salt to taste; mix half the meal to be 
used with cold water (this prevents lumping); stir this in boiling 
water and add enough meal to make desired consistency. Turn in 
molds for frying. 

GRAHAM MUSH. 
For graham mush proceed as above. 

WAFFLES. 

Two eggs; 1^2 pints buttermilk; l/ teaspoon soda; salt; 1 table- 
spoon melted lard; flour. Mrs. A. R. Markel. 



14 



Cakes, Cookies and Doughnuts 

"To one large cup brimful of joy, take from the family jar. 

Another of the sweets of life, and spice from isles afar; 

Add twenty grains of flattery, of common sense but one. 

With dainty lady fingers stir from morn till set of sun. 

Then sprinkle well this mixture rare with crumbs of comfort fine, 

And in an oven bake it till his lordship comes to dine. 

She shall know what earthly bliss is 

Who shall serve this dish with kisses." 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE. 

All measurements level. One cup butter; 2 cups sugar; 3^ cups 
flour sifted with 3 teaspoons baking powder; 1 cup milk; whites of 6 
eggs. Bake in layers. 

Frosting Three cups sugar; 1 cup water; whites 3 eggs; 1 tea- 
spoon vanilla. Boil syrup to thread and pour over beaten whites; 
beat until cool; add flavoring. 

Filling One cup raisins; 1 cup pecan nut meats; 5 figs chopped 
fine. Mix all together; add the icing, with the exception of enough 
for plain frosting for the top. Mrs. Fred L. Brownlee. 

ANGELS' FOOD. 

Whites of eight large or nine medium eggs; \y$ cups granulated 
sugar; 1 cup of flour; Yi teaspoon cream of tartar; pinch of salt added 
to eggs before whipping; sift flour and sugar four or five times 
tJMftMtg]* measure; whip eggs to foam, then add cream tartar; whip un- 
til very stiff; fold sugar in gradually, vanilla, then flour folded in 
lightly. Bake in moderate oven 25 or 30 minutes. Mrs. M. E. Davis. 

BLITZ CAKE. 

Half cup sugar; y 2 cup butter; 2 eggs; 1 cup flour; 1 teaspoon 
baking powder; pinch salt; put in three pans cover with chopped nuts 
and sugar. Bake in slow oven about ten minutes.. Delicious. Tested. 

BUTTERLESS, EGOLESS AND MILKLESS CAKE. 

Boil together for three minutes and then cool the following: 
One cup brown sugar; 1 cup water; 1 cup seeded raisins; y$ cup lard; 
54 teaspoon salt; 1 teaspoon cinnamon; 1 teaspoon ground cloves; *4 
nutmeg grated. Wfren cold add: Two cups ,flour into which has been 
sifted y* teaspoon baking powder. Dissolve 1 teaspoon soda in a 
very little hot water and add. Also 24 cup of nuts well floured. Bake 
in slow oven. Miss Faye S. Ustic. 

CLOVE CAKE. 

One pound brown sugar; y 2 pound butter; 4 eggs; 1 teacup cream; 
1 pound flour; 1 pound raisins; 2 tablespoons cloves; 1 teaspoon cin- 
namon; 1 nutmeg; 1 teaspoon soda. Mrs. Charles Butterworth. 

15 



FIRE LIFE 



Protection and Prompt Service 



C. F. JAEGER J. C. LITTLE 



Jaeger & Little 




AGENCY 



Citizens 6051 Bell, Main 6450 

Rooms 203-204 Pythian Bldg., 

37 y 2 East L n g Strcet 

TORNADO AUTOMOBILE 



DELICIOUS CORN STARCH CAKE. 

Two coffee cups of pulverized sugar; 24 CU P f butter; one cup of 
corn starch dissolved in 1 cup of sweet milk; 2 cups of flour; whites 
of 7 eggs; 2 teaspoons cream tartar; one teaspoon of soda mixed 
thoroughly with the flour; cream, butter and sugar. Add starch and 
milk, then add the whites of eggs and flour gradually until all is 
used. Flavor with lemon or rose. Make in loaf. Mrs. W. J. Hender- 
shott. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Three-fourths cup sugar; 1 tablespoon butter; 3 eggs (except 1 
white); ^ cup milk; 2 cups flour; 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

CREAM. 

One pint milk; */ 2 cup flour (wet in milk); 1 scant cup sugar; 2 
eggs. Tested. 

- DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE. 

Two cups dark brown sugar; 1 cup sour cream; 2 eggs; 2J/2 cups 
flour; 2 tablespoons cocoa; */ 2 cup butter; 1 teaspoon soda; cinnamon 
and cloves to taste. Mrs. McKendree Smith. 

DEVIL'S FOOD. 

Two cups brown sugar; */ 2 cup butter; % cake chocolate; 2 eggs 
or 4 yolks; y 2 cup spur milk; '/ cup boiling water; 1 level teaspoon 
soda; 2 cups flour; dissolve soda and chocolate in water. Mrs. Thos. 
G. Constable. 

GENUINE ENGLISH FRUIT CAKE. 

Two pounds raisins, 2 pounds currants; 1 pound citron; % pound 
almonds; 1 pound brown sugar; 1 lemon; 1 glass liquid; j/2 pound 
lemon or orange peel; 1 pound butter; 1 pound flour; 2 teaspoons bak- 
ing powder; 10 eggs; 1 teaspoon cinnamon; y 2 pint milk; 1 teaspoon 
cloves, allspice, nutmeg and mace, each; cook 3 hours in a slow oven. 
Makes three good sized cakes. Mrs. Eva Sells Jaeger. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Use large coffee cup in measuring. One cup butter; 4 cups brown 
sugar; y 2 cups flour; 1 teaspoon cream tartar; \ l / 2 cups of strong 
coffee; 8 i,eggs; 1 teaspoon soda; 2 pounds raisins; \ l / 2 pounds cur- 
rants; \y 2 pounds dates; y 2 pound citron; *4 pound orange peel; J4 
pound lemon peel; spice to suit the taste. Bake 4 hours in slow oven. 
Mrs. Clarence Thompson. 

JAM CAKE. 

One cup sugar; Y 2 cup butter; 3 eggs; 1 cup jam; 1 teaspoon cin- 
namon; 1 teaspoon cloves; 1 'nutmeg; \% cups flour; 5 tablespoons 
sour cream; 1 teaspoon soda. Bake in loaf or in layers. Mrs. William 
Markel. 

BURNT ORANGE CAKE. 

Blend 1 cup sugar; butter, size of an egg; a little salt; beaten 
yolks of 2 eggs and grated rind of an orange. Put juice of 1 orange 
in cup and fill with water until 2 / 3 full. Sift 1 heaping teaspoon baking 
powder with \ l / 2 cups flour *and add to the above and beat well. Bake 
in two layers. Ice. Mrs. Harry Beech. 

17 



GERMAN FRUIT CAKE. 

Three pounds finely chopped raisins; 2 pounds currants; 1 pound 
citron; 1 pound brown sugar; 1 pound butter; \ l / 2 pounds flour; 1 
dozen eggs; j^ pint Orleans molasses; 1 wine glass of fruit juice. 
Dredge fruit with flour, add spices and bake 3J4 hours. This keeps 
well for two months at least. Mrs. Elizabeth Ustic. 

FEATHER CAKE. 

Into a mixing bowl put 1 cup of sugar; y$ cup butter; 2 cups 
flour sifted with 2 even teaspoons of baking powder. Into the same 
measuring cup break 1 whole egg or the whites of 3 (if you wish a 
white cake), fill the cup with milk or water; mix all together; beat 
well and make in 2 layers. Mrs. H. E. Smith. 

HORSE SHOE CAKE. 

Six cups granulated sugar; 1 cup butter, cream together; 2 cups 
sweet milk; 6 cups flour; 6 teaspoonfuls baking powder; 6 whites of 
eggs beaten stiff. Add a little flour and then milk, beating all the 
time; baking powder in flour at last, then whites of eggs. This will 
make two average cakes. Mrs. McKendree Smith. 

FRENCH CREAM CAKE. 

Two cups sugar; y 2 cup butter; 3 eggs, beaten separately; 1 cup 
water; 3 cups flour; 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Flavor vanilla. 
Bake in layers. 

Filling One pint sweet milk; 1 scant cup sugar; y 2 cup butter; 
2 eggs; 2 heaping tablespoons corn starch dissolved in warm milk; 
2 teaspoons vanilla. Cook until thick; spread between layers when 
cool. Mrs. Raymond Dowdell. 

. ICE CREAM CAKE. 

Make a good sponge cake into layers and let them get perfectly 
cold. Take a pint of thick sweet cream, beat until it looks like ice 
cream; make very sweet; flavor with vanilla; blanch and chop a pound 
of almonds and put very thick between the layers. This is the 
queen of all cakes. Mrs. J. W. Hendershott. 

LEMON JELLY CAKE. 

Two cups granulated sugar; 1 cup butter; 4 eggs, whites beaten 
separately; 1 cup milk; 2 teaspoons baking powder; 3 cups flour. 

Filling Yolk of 1 egg; 2 tablespoons flour; y 2 cup water; l/ 
cup sugar; lump of butter. Cook in double boiler and use between 
layer and use the white of egg for icing on top. Miss Carrie Ziegen- 
speck. 

MEAT CAKE. 

One pound sausage; 1 pound brown sugar; 1 pound raisins; itf 
teaspoons spices; 1 cup hot water; 1 teaspoon soda; 3 cups flour. 
Mabel McLeod. 

18 



MAPLE CAKE. 

Two cups brown sugar; 1 cup sour cream; ^2 cup butter; 2 eggs; 
2^2 cups sifted flour; J/ teaspoon soda sifted in flour; 1 tablespoon 
vanilla. Bake in layers. 

Filling One and one half cup granulated sugar; J^ cup brown 
sugar; Yi cup cream. Cook until very soft ball, beat hard after plac- 
ing vessel in cold water. Spread between and on top. Flavor with 
vanilla. Tested. 



MRS. ,P ARSON'S PORK CAKE. 

One pound fresh fat pork; 1 pound butter; 2J^ cups molasses; 
3^ cups sugar; 1 pint boiling water; 8 eggs; 2J^ teaspoons cinnamon; 
1^ teaspoons cloves; J4 pound citron; 54 pound lem'on peel; 54 
pound orange peel; 2 pounds raisins; 1 pound currants; 1 pound figs; 
2 teaspoons soda; 2 teaspoons salt; 1 cup wine, brandy or coffee. 
Chop pork fine, put in butter, then pour boiling water over this; then 
molasses, sugar, spices, soda and salt. Then add a little flour, then 
fruit, then more flour, then add eggs well beaten. Add balance flour. 
Bake two hours. (Fruit cake.) Miss Lantz. 

POUND CAKE. 

One coffee cup sugar; 1 coffee cup butter; 3 whole eggs; 1 level 
pint flour; 54 teaspoon baking powder. Cream well. Cream, sugar 
and butter well. Add the well beaten eggs and beat again. Add flour, 
beat and milk or cream to make it correct consistency. Do not have 
it too stiff as the batter should fall easily from the spoon. Beat 
until it is smooth and bake in slow oven. Mrs. P. S. Skeele. 

RAISIN CAKE. 

Two cups sugar; ^ cup butter; 3 cups flour; 1 cup raisins; 1 tea- 
spoon soda; 1 teaspoon cinnamon; 2 eggs. Cook raisins and use the 
liquor and add water if there is not a cupful of liquor as must have 
cup of liquid. 

SPANISH BUN CAKE. 

One and one half cups brown sugar; 5/ cup brown sugar; 1/2 
cup butter; 1 cup sweet milk; 2 yolks and one whole egg; 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder; 2 cups flour; 1 teaspoon vanilla; 1 cinna- 
mon. 

Frosting Two whites of eggs, beaten stiff; 1 cup brown sugar. 
Beat thoroughly together. Spread over cake when done, return to 
oven and brown. Mrs. W. Paddock. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Whites 6 eggs; 1 cup milk; 2 cups sugar; 4 cups sifted flour; 
y$ cup butter; flavoring; ,2 teaspoons baking powder. Bake in layers 
or loaf. Mrs. Charles Butterworth. 

19 



SNOW CAKE. 

Two cups sugar; 24 CU P butter; 1 cup milk; 2 cups flour; 1 cup 
cornstarch; 1J^ teaspoons baking powder; whites of 7 eggs; 1 tea- 
spoon vanilla. Tested. 

SPICE LAYER CAKE. 

Three-fourths cup butter; 2 cups sugar; 1 cup water; 3 cups flour; 
3 teaspoons baking powder; 4 eggs; \ l / 2 teaspoons cinnamon; lj/ 
teaspoonn cloves; l / 2 teaspoon nutmeg. Beat whites and yolks to- 
gether, cream, butter, add sugar, then eggs beat thoroughly; add 
water and flour. Mrs. C. Wilkinson. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Three eggs; 2 cups sugar; 1 cup hot water; 2 cups flour; 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder. Use dover egg beater, beat eggs thoroughly; 
add sugar; beat till batter looks creamy; stir in hot water with beater 
until the flour is just stirred in. Bake in a Van Dussen pan or an 
ungreased pan. Mrs. Harry E. Smith. 

SOUR CREAM CAKES. 

One cup sour cream; 1 very scant teaspoon soda; 3 eggs; 24 cup 
sugar; 1^ cup flour; ^ teaspoon nutmeg; 1 teaspoon allspice; 3 tea- 
spoons cinnamon; 1 teaspoon vanilla; 1 cup raisins. Bake in muffin 
pans. Marie Louise Baer. 

SOUR MILK CAKES. 

One and one-half cups sugar; y 2 cup butter; 1 cup sour milk; 1 
cup raisins; 1 cup nuts; 3 cups flour; 1 teaspoon soda; 1 teaspoon 
nutmeg Mrs. Morris Sidebottom. 

VANILLA CAKE. 

Cream 1 cup sugar and J4 cup butter; add ^ cup sweet milk, 2 
cups flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder and white of 3 eggs. 

Icing Yolk of 3 eggs; 1 cup sugar; 1 teaspoon vanilla. Beat 
15 minutes or until thoroughly creamed. Mrs. Emilie Frankenberg. 

VELVET SPONGE CAKE. 

Six eggs; 1 cup boiling water; 2J^ cups flour sifted five times; 2 
teaspoonfuls baking powder; flavor to taste. Beat whites of eggs 
separately reserving three of the whites for (icing. Beat yolks and 
sugar, then add beaten whites, then flavoring next; cup boiling water. 
Last, flour with baking powder. Bake in layers. William Markle. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Two cups flour; 1^4 cups sugar; 1 teaspoon baking powder; sift 
together five times. Whites of 2 eggs in measuring cup. Fill to 
half full with butter, then to full with milk and add to the dry in- 
gredients and beat until it is smooth and velvety. Mrs. Nora Craft. 

20 






WHITE CAKE. 

One cup butter; iy 2 cups granulated sugar; 3 cups sifted flour; 2 
teaspoons baking powder; 1 cup sweet milk; whites five eggs. Beat 
this batter until it is smooth and fine grained just before putting 
it into the pans Mrs. P. S. Skeele. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Two cups sugar; y 2 cup butter; 1 cup milk; whites 4 eggs well 
beaten; 2 teaspoons baking powder; %y 2 cups flour. 

Filling One egg, beaten; y 2 pint milk; l / 2 cup sugar; 1 table- 
spoon of cornstarch. Boil until it thickens, add vanilla and y* cup of 
nuts well chopped. Mrs. Charles Webster. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Half cup butter, scant;, \Yi cups /granulated sugar; 1 cup cold 
water; three even cups pastry flour sifted three times before measur- 
ing; 2 rounded teaspoons baking powder; whites of 4 eggs. 

Flavoring Cream, butter and sugar; add Y$ of water with one 
cup of flour; beat thoroughly and add second cup of flour, continue 
beating. Into last cup of flour sift baking powder and add as others; 
then the rest of the water; add flavoring. Fold in well beaten 
white of eggs carefully. Bake in layers; use boiled icing for filling. 
Mrs. Penny. 

YELLOW CAKE. 

Two cups sugar; 1 cup water; 3 cups flour; ^ cup butter; 4 eggs; 
3 teaspoons baking powder. Mrs. McKendree Smith. 

CARAMEL COOKIES. 

Seven cups flour; 4 cups brown sugar; 4 beaten eggs; 1 cup 
melted lard; 1 tablespoonful of soda; 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
Mix into long loaf, let stand over night; cut with knife in thin 
slices and bake in moderate oven. Mrs. John D. Coss. 

CINNAMON WAFERS. 

Three cups brown sugar; 1 cup lard; 1 cup boiling water; 1 tea- 
spoonful ground cinnamon; 1 teaspoon salt; 1 teaspoon soda dissolved 
in the boiling water. Flour to make stiff. Mrs. Ella A. Zell. 

COOKIES WITH RAISIN FILLING. 

One cup sugar; y 2 cup shortening; 1 egg; y 2 cup milk; 3^ cups 
of flour, into which has been sifted 2 teaspoons cream tartar and 1 
teaspoon soda; add 1 teaspoon vanilla. Roll very thin and spread 
the raisin filling between two layers and bake in quick oven. 

Raisin filling Half cup chopped raisins; J4 cup sugar; y 2 cup 
water; 1 tablespoon flour; flavor with lemon and cook until it thick- 
ens. Mrs. J. Van R. Gardner. 

21 



COOKIES. 

Two cups sugar; 1 cup of shortening (half lard and half butter); 
2 eggs, beaten; 1 cup of sour milk and 1 teaspoon soda beaten in the 
milk. Season with nutmeg and make a soft dough. Mrs. Evelyn 
D. Rood. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 

One and one-half cup granulated sugar; 1 cup butter; 1 cup sour 
creams; 3 eggs; 1 teaspoon soda; flour to stiffen, but be careful not 
to make too stiff. Mrs. Walter Whissen. 

COOKIES EXTRA FINE. 

Three-fourths cup butter; 1 cup sugar; 3 eggs; 2 cups flour; flavor 
with lemon, roll thin and bake in quick oven. Mrs. W. E. Baker. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 

Two cups sugar; 1 cup lard; 2 teaspoons soda; 1 cup sour milk; 
y 2 teaspoon salt; flavoring. Mrs. J. Irwin. 

GOOD COOKIES. 

Two cups of soft sugar; 1 cup of shortening; 4 eggs; 4 table- 
spoonfuls of sweet milk; 1 teaspoon of baking powder; y 2 teaspoon- 
ful of soda; roll soft. Mrs. Rhoads. 

SPICE COOKIES. 

One and one-half cups sugar; % cup butter; 2 eggs; 4 table- 
spoons sour milk; 1 cup chopped raisins; 1 teaspoon soda; 1 teaspoon 
each, cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg; 2 cups flour. Mrs. Jacob 
Woehrle. 

SCOTCH TEA CAKES. 




it in the butter as for pastry. Add the beaten eggs to which has been 
added the cream. The amount of liquid needed varies according 
to temperature. Drop with a teaspoon and put a bit of sugar on each 
top. Bake in a rather quick oven. Easy to make. Mrs. Philip S. 
Skeele. 

NUT CAKES. 

Half cup butter; 1 cup sugar; ^ cup milk; 2 cups flour; 3 level 
teaspoonfuls baking powder; 1 tablespoonful vanilla; 3 egg whites 
beaten; 24 cup nut meats chopped. Bake in buttered individual tins 
about 20 minutes. Ice with white icing. Mrs. Raymond Dowdell. 

22 



LEMON CRACKERS. 

Three cups sugar; 3 eggs; 1 cup lard; 1 pint milk; 5c worth of 
baking ammonia; 5c worth oil of lemon; flour to stiffen as for 
cookies. Mrs. Oscar Avery. 

VIRGINIA JUMBLES. 

Two cups brown sugar; 2 eggs; 2 cups lard; large half of nut- 
meg; 1/4 cup sour milk; y 2 teaspoon soda; flour to stiffen, but not too 
stiff. Flatten out, sprinkle with sugar and bake. Mrs. Walter Whis- 
sen. 

ROLLED OATS COOKIES. 

Two cups rolled oats; y 2 cup butter; y cup lard. Mix and let 
stand one hour. Add 2 eggs; \y 2 cups granulated sugar; 1 teaspoon 
salt; 1 teaspoon cinnamon; ^ teaspoon cloves; 1 teaspoon soda; 1 cup 
nut meats; 1 cup raisins; 2 cups flour; y 2 cup buttermilk. Drop from 
spoon and bake rather slow. Mrs. Clara Belle McKee. 

SCOTCH OAT CAKES. 

Three cups oat meal; 2 cups flour; ^ cup butter; $4 cup sugar; 
y 2 teasnoon soda; y 2 cup hot water. Roll very thin and cut. More 
sugar may be used if you choose. Olive Lyford, Vancouver, B. C. 

OAT MEAL WAFERS WITH FILLING. 

Two cups oat meal; 2 cups flour; 1 cup brown sugar; ^ cup but- 
ter and lard; y 2 cup sour milk; 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in 1 table- 
spoon hot water. Roll very thin and cut in any shape desired. 

Filling One and one-half cups sugar; 1 pound dates; y 2 cup 
water. Boil until it makes smooth paste. Mrs. J. Ryder. 

ROLLED OATS COOKIES, 

One cup granulated sugar; 1 cup lard and butter; 2 eggs; 5 
tablespoons sweet milk; y 2 teaspoon salt; 2 cups flour; $4 teaspoon 
soda; 1 cup raisins (chopped fine); 2 cups rolled oats; 1 teaspoon 
ground cinnamon; y 2 teaspoon ground cloves. Beat thoroughly sugar, 
shortening and eggs. Then add milk, salt and spices. Sift soda 
through flour and add. Roll raisins in flour before chopping, then 
stir in raisins and oats, mixing thoroughly. Drop on greased pans 
and bake in slow oven. Mrs. E. A. Zell. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One egg; 2 heaping tablespoons of sugar; 2 dessert spoons of 
melted butter; 4 tablespoons of sweet milk; 2 level tablespoons of 
baking powder; flour enough to roll out. Makes about 20. Nice 
for small family. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One cup of soft A sugar; 1 cup sweet milk; 2^ teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder; 2 eggs; y 2 teaspoonful nutmeg; flour to roll soft. 
Mrs. Rhoads. 

23 



McGowan Dairy Co. 

Pasteurized Milk and Cream 



Bacteria forms very quickly in milk which has not been pasteurized, 
so be on the safe side buy the best. 

Inspected daily by the Columbus Board of Health. 

Qyality Speaks for Itself. 

Our Record : Six months in Arlington, now selling 35 gallons. 

Watch Us Grow. 



COMPLIMENTS OF 
A FRIEND 



The Fifth Ave. Floral Co. 

Wholesale and Retail 

Largest Growers of Cut Flowers and Plants 
in Central Ohio. 

OFFICE AND GREENHOUSE-5 16-552 Wctt Fifth Ave. 
Citizens 16052. Bell North 278. 

STORE-44 North High St. Citisen. 6085. 

WHERE EVERYBODY LIKES TO BUY PIANOS. 




MUSIC STORE 

231 NORTH HIGH STREET 



DOUGHNUTS. 

Beat 3 eggs; add 1 cup granulated sugar; 2 cups fresh mashed po- 
tatoes; 3 tablespoons melted butter. Dissolve 54 teaspoon soda in y^ 
cup sour milk, add to the first. Then add 4 cups sifted flour, 1 tea- 
spoon salt; 2 teaspoons baking powder and flavoring you choose. 
Roll out only a small amount at a time. Mrs. Jacob Woehrle. 

POTATO DOUGHNUTS. 

One cup of mashed potatoes (foot); 2 tablespoons shortening; ! 
cups sugar; 2 eggs; 2 l / 2 teaspoons baking powder; 1*4 cup mil 
salt and nutmeg; flour to roll out. Mrs. Harry E. Smith. 



25 



Cheese and Eggs 



There's a best way of doing everything; 
Even if it be but to cook an egg. 

CHEESE FONDUE. 

One cup scalded milk; 1 cup soft stale bread crumbs; 54 pound 
mild cheese shaved thin; 1 tablespoon butter; pinch salt; 2 eggs. Mix 
all ingredients, but eggs; add yolks then fold in beaten whites. Pour 
in buttered baking dish and bake 20 minutes. Serve at once. 
Helen Northcraft. 

CHEESE OMELETTE. 

Two cups of grated cheese; 2 cups of cracker crumbs; chunks 
of melted butter; 6 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately; milk 
to moisten; salt to taste, Bake in quick oven. Mrs. John D. Coss. 

EGG VERMICELLI. 
\T 

Three hard-boiled eggs; 1 cup hot milk; 2 tablespoons butter; 2 
tablespoons flour; J4 teaspoon salt; y% teaspoon pepper. Make white 
sauce. Add the chopped whites and serve on hot toast with egg yolks 
on top. Rub the yolks through a sieve and garnish all with parsley. 
May be used in chafing dish. Mrs. Fred Schmitt. 



26 



Drinks 



"Of my merit on thet point you yourself may jedge; 
All is, I never drink no sperit, 
Nor I haint never signed no pledge." 

Lowell. 

COFFEE. 

1 tablespoon to person and 1 tablespoon to pot. Mix with a little 
water and yolk of egg. Let stand a few minutes, add the required 
amount of freshly boiled water. Let come to a good boil. Let 
stand where it will keep hot ((but not boil) for about 10 minutes 
and serve. 

MOTHER'S WAY OF MAKING TEA. 

Stand teapot in a hot place. Rinse with boiling water. One tea- 
spoon tea to 1 pint of freshly boiled water. Stand about 5 min- 
utes and serve. 

CHOCOLATE OR COCOA. 

One-half teaspoon chocolate and 1 teaspoon sugar to a person. 
Mix together dry; add water, 1/2 CU P; l et come to boil until it dis- 
solves; add the required amount of rich milk and let get hot, not boil. 
Serve with whipped cream or a marshmallow on top. 

ORANGEADE. 

To juice of 4 oranges add the juice of 2 lemons, 1 cup sugar, 1 
quart water, 1 quart shaved ice. 

LEMONADE. 

To 5 lemons add 1 pound of granulated sugar and 3 quarts of ice 
water. Put in a piece of ice to keep it cold. 

ICED COCOA. 

Mix y-2. cupful of cocoa with 1 cupful of sugar and 1 cupful of 
warm water over hot water until both sugar and cocoa are disssolved. 
Boil to a heavy syrup. Remove from the fire and thoroughly chill. 
When ready to serve flavor with ^ teaspoonful of vanilla and 2 
tablespoonfuls of strong coffee. Put from 2 to 3 tablespoons of this 
mixture in a glass, adding chopped ice and filling up with milk. Add 
cream if desired. Stir well. Edith M. Thomas. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Cover berries with vinegar and let stand over night. Squeeze 
through cheese cloth. One pound sugar to one pint juice. Boil 
20 or 30 minutes and bottle while hot. Serve two tablespoons to 
glass of water. Mrs. E. P. Gerhold. 

27 



Fish and Oysters 

"He was a bold man who first ate an oyster." 

BAKED SMELTS. 

Smelts; bread crumbs; 54 lb. butter; 2 blades of mace pounded. 
Salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Wash and dry the fish thoroughly. 
Place in flat baking dish, cover with bread crumbs and pieces of butter 
over them. Bake 15 minutes; just before serving add a little lemon 
juice and garnish with parsley and slices of lemon. Mrs. Stephen 
Stepanian. 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Look over and wash the oysters. Place in buttered bake dish, 
with alternate layers oysters and crackers. Season each layer and 
use plenty butter. Pour on milk and bake 30 minutes. Excellent 
baked in ramekins. 

ESCALLOPED SALMON. 

Pick the cold boiled fish into fine pieces. Butter a pudding dish, 
cover with cracker crumbs, then a layer of salmon with bits of butter, 
salt and pepper, a trifle of tomato and a little milk. Proceed in this 
way until the dish is full, having buttered crumbs at the top. Add 
milk to )make quite moist and bake */ 2 hour in a quick oven. Mrs. 
Rood. 

FRESH CODFISH. 

Put in a poke and tie up and cook slowly in a kettle of hot 
water, salted, for an hour, but do not boil. When done, serve on a 
platter with dressing as follows, after slicing hard boiled eggs over 
it: Mix 2 tablespoons of butter with equal amount of flour and stir 
boiling water in it until it becomes thick; then pour over the fish 
and eggs. Mrs. Evelyn L. Rood. 

RED SNAPPER. 

Half Ib. bacon, 2 eggs, salt and pepper, cracker crumbs, sage, 1 
lemon and parsley. Place snapper in roaster with several slices of 
bacon beneath; salt and pepper inside and out; make dressing of 
cracker crumjbs, eggs and the seasonings. When baked 94 hour add 
the juice of 1 lemon. Bake 1% hours in all, keeping about 1 inch of 
liquid in the roaster. Mrs. Eva Sells Jaeger. 

SALMON TURBOT. 

Flake fish; make dressing of 54 cup butter and 3 tablespoons 
flonr; 1 pint milk; -when cold add 2 beaten eggs; season with^a finely 
minced parsley and a few drops of lemon juice. Put in baking dish 
in alternating layers, fish and sauce, cover with buttered crumbs and 
bake. Mrs. Fred Wing. 

28 



SALMON LOAF. 

One cup soft bread crumbs; 1 cup milk, cooked to a smooth 
paste; add ^ cup thin cream; salt; 2 cups salmon, rubbed fine; fold 
in 3 eggs beaten light. Pour into a buttered mold and bake in a pan 
of hot water for ^ hour. Mrs. C. M. Garwood. 

SALMON LOAF. 

Drain the oil from 1 can salmon; mix with it 1 egg and 4 crackers, 
rolled, and enough water to make it soft. Spread thick with butter 
and bake. Miss Faye S. Ustic. 

SALMON LOAF. 

One pound can salmon; 4 eggs; 1 cup finely rolled cracker 
crumbs; 1 cup cold water; salt and pepper to taste; parsley and green 
pepper may be added. Steam 2 hours in a pound coffee can which 
has been greased and the bottom lined with paper. Marie Louise 
Baer. 

TARTARE SAUCE. 

Add to 1 cup mayonnaise 1 tablespoon capers, 1 tablespoon 
chopped gherkins, 1 teaspoon chopped parsley, 1 teaspoon chervil, 1 
tablespoon white vinegar. 

SALMON CROQUETTES. 

Mix fine 1 can or 1 pound of salmon; work into it 1 tablespoonful 
of melted butter, the powdered yolks of 2 hard boiled eggs, 1 table- 
spoon lemon juice,, the crumbs of ^ a slice of stale bread, y* a table- 
spoonful of anchovy sauce; pepper, salt and nutmeg to taste. Make 
into little rolls, dip in beaten egg, roll in fine bread or cracker crumbs 
and fry in hot drippings. Mrs. Rains. 

CROQUETTES FISH. 

Make sauce of 1 tablespoonful butter, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 1 tea- 
spoonful salt, 1 cup milk, 1 egg, dash of cayenne pepper; when cold 
add the fish and 1 tablespoon lemon juice and mold and let stand 1 
hour before frying in deep fat. (Tested) Mrs. Louise Whipps Gra- 
ham. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

Melt 2 tablespoons butter; blend in 1 tablespoon flour, adding 
slowly 1 cup chicken or veal broth; when cooked smooth beat in 
yolks of 4 eggs, 10 drops onion juice, 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 
Serve with fish. N. B. S. 



29 



Icings, Jellies and Jams 



"The happy time is over 
For Mrs. Green Gage Plum 
Says she knows, unto her sorrow, 
Preserving time has come." 



APPLE ICING. 

One beaten white of egg; 1 cup sugar and 1 grated tart apple. 
Beat until w,hite. Use with any cake, but must be eaten the same 
day. Mrs. Elizabeth Ustic. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 

Two cups powdered sugar; 4 tablespoons cocoa; 4 tablespoons 
boiling coffee; butter the size of an egg; mix all together, putting in 
coffee last, and spread on cake. Do not cook the icing. Mrs. F. B. 
Allen. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 

Five tablespoons of cream; 1 square bitter chocolate, dissolved; 
pulverized sugar to make stiff. Mrs. Thos. G. Constable. 

MARSHMALLOW FROSTING. 

Is made with 1 cup of brown sugar boiled with l /2 cup of cream 
until it "balls" when rolled between the fingers; this will require 
about 30 minutes; a double boiler should be used, as both the cream 
and sugar scorch easily; when it balls stir in l /2 pound of marshmal- 
lows and beat until smooth and creamy; spread upon the cake be- 
fore it cools. 

WHITE ICING. 

Two cups granulated sugar; 1 cup boiling water; 1 tablespoon 
of vinegar; cook until it makes a soft ball in water; take from stove, 
adding 5 marshmallows; pour this over the whites of 2 eggs beaten 
stiff; beat well while pouring. Double this to ice horse shoe cake. 
Mrs. McKendree Smith. 

CARAMEL ICING. 

One and a half cups brown sugar; y* cup granulated; ^2 cup hot 
water; boil until a very soft ball; add 1 tablespoon thick cream; flavor 
with vanilla; place pan in cold water and beat fast and hard until it 
is thick enough to spread. Do not beat too long. Tested. 

30 



CONSERVES, MARMALADES, PRESERVES AND JAMS 

CONSERVE. 

Two quarts rhubarb; H pound raisins; 2 quarts sugar; 1 lemon; 1 
'orange; nuts. Cook to a jelly, adding nuts after removing from 
fire. 'Mabel McLeod. 

GRAPE CONSERVE. 

Five pounds grapes (Concords); 5 pounds sugar; 1 pound raisins; 
4 oranges, cut fine; skin grapes, cook pulps, put through colander to 
remove seeds. Put skins and pulp together, add sugar, raisins, grapes 
and oranges; cook 20 minutes after it begins to boil. Mrs. W. E. 
Baker. 

PLUM CONSERVE. 

Five pounds damson plums; 5 pounds sugar; 2^/2 pounds raisins; 6 
large oranges (pulp) with grated rind of one; put fruit through food 
chopper; cook until proper consistency. Mrs. John D. Coss. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

One orange; 1 lemon; 1 grape fruit. Discard tough end of lemon 
and middle fibre of orange and grape fruit; cut on potato slicer, very 
thin, the rind, after scooping out fruit; measure; add 3 times as much 
cold water; boil 30 minutes; let stand 24 hours; measure; add equal 
parts sugar as you have liquid; cook about 2 hours, or until con- 
sistency of a thick conserve. Mrs. Chas. Butterworth. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Six oranges, sliced thin; 3 lemons, sliced thin; score so that slice 
will be halved; 3 quarts water; soak 24 hours; then cook 10 minutes 
and let stand 24 hours more; add 3 quarts granulated sugar and cook 
until it jells. Never at any time pour off any of the water. Mrs. E. 
P. Gerhold. 

GRAPE AND ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Six pounds grapes; 2 pounds raisins; 4 pounds sugar; 4 oranges. 
Cut the rind into thin strips, chop the raisins and pulp the grapes; 
cook the pulps until soft, press through a sieve and add to the skins; 
cook 15 minutes and add to the orange pulp and other things and 
simmer gently until jelly like; pour into glasses and seal. L. M. 



Y 



HONEY. 

Beat to a cream a ^quarter of a pound of butter, the yolks of 3 
eggs, a cupful of powdered sugar, the grated rind of 1 orange and 
its juice. Cook over hot water, stirring all the time, until thick and 
creamy. Mrs. Lee. 

PEACH PRESERVES. - 

Nine pounds peaches, pealed and quartered; 4 pounds sugar; 1 
pint vinegar; cook until thick. Mrs. Harry E. Smith. 

31 



IELL MAIN 
1112 




QUALITY SERVICE PRICE 



CITIZENS 
3112 



COMPLIMENTS OF 
A FRIEND 



TRANSFERRING 

Benj. Bowen & Son 



Cit. Phone 13052 

HAULING 



OUR SPECIALTIES 

DRY CLEANING WOOL BLANKETS 
LACE CURTAINS WINDOW SHADES 

The Troy Laundering Company 



Citizens 11136 



Bell Main 2527 



SUNSHINE PRESERVES. 

Use pound for pound fruit and sugar; boil 10 minutes; pour on 
platters and place in sun for two days. Mrs. Chas. Butterworth. 

HEAVENLY JAM. 

Three pounds grapes (Concords); 3 pounds sugar; 1 pound rai- 
sins; 1 pound unshelled walnuts; 5 oranges; 2 teaspoons cinnamon; 1 
teaspoon cloves, scant. Pulp the grapes-; scald the^ pulp, strain 
through a sieve; grate rind from oranges and extract juice; put skins 
of grapes, strained pulp, raisins, juice and grated rind of oranges to- 
gether and boil for 20 to 30 minutes; add sugar and chopped nuts; 
boil 5 minutes or more until it jells on spoon. C. E. S. 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVES. 
A Quaker Recipe. 

One pint sugar, with enough boiling water to cover; cook until 
it threads; stir in carefully a heaping pint of dark red berries; when 
that comes to a boil add a second pint of sugar; when that boils, a 
second pint of berries; when this boils, cook exactly 10 minutes 
longer. Let it get perfectly cold before canning. Marie Louise Baer. 



Meats 



"Some hae meat and canna eat, 

And some hae nane that want it; 
But we hae meat and we can eat, 
Sae let the Lord he thankit." 

BEEF ROLL. 

Two and one-half pounds chopped beef; J^ cup milk; 2 well 
beaten eggs; butter size of an egg; 1 tablespoon salt; 1 taaspoon of 
pepper; 1 small onion; y* tablespoon grated nutmeg; 2 rolled crack- 
ers; bake 2 hours in roaster or baste often. Mrs. J. Van R. Gardner. 

BEEF LOAF. 

One pound round steak; y* pound pork; J/ pound veal ground; 
16 rolled crackers; 2 beaten eggs; salt and pepper to taste; enough 
sweet milk to moisten; roll oblong and place two slices of bacon on 
top. Mrs. Adrienne Howell. 

BEEF STEW. 

Take any amount of round steak, cut in small pieces; onions ac- 
cording to amount of steak; slice, and place in double boiler with 
steak; season to taste and stew slowly for three hours or more. 
Mrs. Alfred H. Leaman. 

DROPPED DUMPLINGS. 

One pint flour; y 2 teaspoon salt; 2 teaspoons baking powder; 1 
egg; scant cup milk or water; cook about 15 minutes with lid off 
kettle; turn once. By keeping the lid off your dumplings will always 
be light. Mrs. J. B. Pinney. 

MILK DUMPLINGS. 

One pint of flour; 2 eggs; ^2 teaspoonful of salt; 1 tablespoonful 
of baking powder; 2 tablespoonfuls of water. Let boil 15 minutes 
without lifting the lid. Mrs. John D. Coss. 

BOILED ROAST. 

Put roast in aluminum steamer kettle, in which sufficient lard 
or suet has been melted to prevent sticking. Season with salt and 
pepper to taste and a generous amount of allspice; brown on both 
sides then pour on enough boiling water to cook done. 

Sweet potatoes are delicious when steamed over such a roast. 
Peel and slice them into the steamer, season slightly with salt and 
pepper, and hang over the roast about a half hour before meat is 
done, being careful to keep kettle tightly covered. Matie Hills. 

34 



CALF'S BRAINS. 

One tablespoon butter; 1 tablespoon flour; 1 tablespoon lemon 
juice; 1 teaspoon salt; 1 cup milk; ^ teaspoon chopped parsley; 
onion juice; yolks 2 eggs. Brains should be parboiled, veined and 
thoroughly cooled and cut into small pieces. Make the white sauce 
of butter, flour and milk; add the rest of the seasonings and the 
brains; lastly stir in the beaten egg yolks and cook an instant. Serve 
hot on toast. Mrs. J. B. Pinney. 

CHICKEN POTPIE. 

Cut the chicken in pieces; boil until tender; season while cooking. 
Fifteen minutes before it is done add potpie. For the potipe take 
\Y-2 pints of flour, 2 teaspoons of baking powder; wet with enough 
milk to make p. soft dough; drop with spoon into kettle, not re- 
moving lid until done, which will take 15 minutes. Place potpie on 
platter; add more water to chicken if needed; then thicken and 
serve. Mrs. W. J. Hendershott. 

CHICKEN WITH CHILI POWDER AND RICE. 

Cut up a frying-size chicken; let fry in hot lard or butter a few 
minutes; add 1 fine chopped onion, 1 green sweet pepper, 1 large 
tomato, 1 tablespoonful of chili powder, y 2 cup of rice; add salt and 
pepper and enough water to allow the rice to be well done; add bay- 
leaf, if desired. Mrs. Ed. Fiedler. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Cook 1 chicken tender; make up 1 quart flour; 2 teaspoons of 
baking powder; 1 salt; 2 tablespoonfuls of lard; enough milk and 
water mixed to make dough as for biscuits; line pan sides; put 
chicken in; thicken chicken broth and pour over chicken; put top of 
dough over all; then pan; after cutting holes in top of dough. Bake 
same as biscuits. Mrs. Adrienne Howell. 

CHILI CON CARNE. 

Fry fifteen cents' worth of hamburger and 2 chopped onions in 
butter; then put in kettle with 1 pint tomatoes, 1 can kidney beans, 
pinch of cayenne; salt to taste; boil 30 to 35 minutes M. D. Tested. 

CHOP SUEY. 

One chicken; 1 pound veal; 2 large onions; 3 stalks celery; 1 
can mushrooms; 1 bowl boiled rice; ^ cup Chinese sauce (answers 
for salt); this can be procured at a Chinese restaurant. Boil chicken 
and veal together until done; scrape meat from bones; cut in strips 
about 1 inch long, also veal; slice onion fine and cut celery in 1 inch 
strips and place in frying pan with a little butter or fat of the 
chicken; fry 10 minutes; add all together and mix well. Thicken 
chicken broth with browned flour and pour over it; set on back of 
stove until ready to serve. Serve with mashed potatoes or noodles. 
Eva Sells Jaeger. 

35 



CHOP SUEY. 

The meat from eight pork chops is cut into small lumps and 
fried until brown, in hot olive oil; drain; to the meat add 2 cups of 
canned mushrooms; 2 large onions, sliced fine; a stalk of celery, 
chopped. Have ready 3 tablespoons of corn starch, with 2 of sugar, 
dissolved in a cup of warm water, to which are added 3 tablespoons 
of Worcestershire sauce; add this to ingredients and cook for half 
an hour, stirring constantly. Edith M. Thomas. 

MEAT CROQUETTES. 

Make sauce of 1 tablespoon butter; 1 teaspoon onion juice; 2 
tablespoons flour; 1 teaspoon salt; 1 cup milk; 1 egg; dash, of cayenne 
and nutmeg; add the chopped meat and pour on flat dish to cool; 
when cold mold into croquettes and let stand an hour or so before 
frying; fry in hot lard. Mrs. O. B. Springer. 

CROQUETTES. 

One and one-half cups ground meat; ^ cup milk; 1 tablespoon 
flour; salt and pepper. Stir the flour and milk until smooth; put on 
stove, stirring continually; when it has thickened, add the meat and 
cook for a few minutes; when cold, shape, roll first in egg, then in 
cracker crumbs; fry in deep, boiling lard. Mrs. Young. 

FLANK STEAK NORWEGIAN STYLE. ,. 

One flank steak; 1 can tomatoes; 1 large onion; salt and pepper; 
water. Have skillet hot with butter; brown steak on both sides; 
place in bake pan, slice onions over top; add tomatoes, cut up a 
little, hot water, and bake 30 or 45 minutes; season with salt and 
pepper. Mrs. C. R. Ryan. 

BAKED FLANK STEAK WITH CATSUP. 

One flank steak; 1 bottle home-made catsup; salt and pepper; 
water. Place steak in bake pan; salt and pepper it; pour over it 
bottle of catsup; add a little water and bake from a half to three- 
quarters' of ah hour. Mrs. C. R. Ryan. 

FRIED SWEETBREADS. 

Parboil about 5 minutes cleaned sweetbreads; wipe dry and lard 
with strips of fat pork; have frying pan hot and well greased with 
lard or butter; turn frequently while frying. When fully cooked they 
will have a crisp, brown appearance. Mrs. Stephen Stepanian. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES WITH HAM. 

Prepare layers of raw potatoes, sliced, salted and peppered; dot 
with butter and sprinkle with flour; place a thick slice of ham on 
top and add enough milk to cook. Or you may place some of th'e 
ham in the center of the potatoes instead of all on top. Bake. Mrs 
C. WL Ryan. 

36 



DEVILED STEAK. 

One flank steak; 1 large onion; 2 tablespoons butter; 2 table- 
spoons flour; 1 teaspoon salt; l / 2 teaspoon pepper; "fa teaspoon 
paprika; 1 teaspoon mustard; 3 tablespoons vinegar; 2 cups hot 
water. Melt butter in frying pan; slice onion and fry in the butter; 
remove onion when it is brown. Cut steak in pieces 3 inches long 
and 2 inches wide; dredge lightly in flour and fry in the butter. Re- 
move meat from the pan and add to the butter the salt, vinegar, mus- 
tard, pepper, paprika and the remaining flour; add the hot water. 
Replace the steak in the frying pan, cover closely and allow to sim- 
mer until the steak is tender; dish on hot plater; pour gravy over it 
and garnish with fried potatoes. This will serve six persons. Mrs. 
Reams. 

GOULASH. 

Round steak; onions; 1^ large slices bacon; salt; pepper; pota- 
toes. Take a nice juicy steak and almost as many onions as steak; 
cut the steak, onions and bacon into small cubes, not too small; put 
bacon in granite stew pan, add onions and fry till a light brown; 
add meat and let simmer, stirring occasionally; season with salt and 
pepper; after everything is steamed thoroughly cover with boiling 
water and when done, cut half as many potatoes as meat into cubes, 
and add them to the stew. Mrs. W. Weinman. 

HAM BAKED. 

Soak foam at least 24 hours. Scrape and clean it well. Place in 
roaster with a little water and cook slowly two or three hours, or 
until the skin will peel easily. Peel and rub thoroughly with a mix- 
ture of brown sugar and dry mustard. Stick the fat full of whole 
cloves and pour over the ham 1 cup of vinegar and place back in 
oven until done. The fat should be crisp and brown when served. 
Cook altogether about 25 minutes to the pound. Tested. 

HAM AU GRATIN. 

Fill a bake dish with alternate layers of freshly chopped ham 
and stale bread crumbs; cover with 2 cups milk, mixed with 3 well 
beaten eggs; salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Bake 30 minutes. 
Mrs. Chas. Webster. 

HAM PADDIES. 

One cup ham scraps; 1 egg; pepper; 94 CU P m ilk. Chop ham fine, 
add egg, milk and pepper. Bake in muffins pans 20 minutes. Break 
an egg on each and bake until done. Mrs. Fred Schmitt. 

ROAST LAMB WITH RICE. 

One shoulder or leg of lamb; 1 cup uncooked rice; 1 can toma- 
toes; 1 onion (small); salt; pepper; water. Salt the lamb and place 
in bake dish. Mix the rice with tomatoes, also the onion cut fine, salt 
and pepper; pour over the lamb with a cupful of hot water and bake 
about an hour. Mrs. C. W. Ryan. 

37 



SAVORY BAKED SLICED HAM. 

Two pounds ham sliced % inch thick; 4 tablespoonfuls sugar; 2 
tablespoonfuls dry mustard; 1 cupful mild vinegar. Parboil ham to 
remove excess salt, and while wet rub into both sides of the meat 
the mustard and sugar mixed. Lay the ham in a fireproof dish, pour 
in a little water and the cupful of vinegar. Cover and bake gently 
for an hour, basting occasionally with the liquid in the dish. Serve 
with glazed sweet potatoes. Mrs. Lee. 

HAM BAKED WITH EGGS. 

Finely chopped ham; fine bread crumbs; milk; salt and pepper; 
melted butter; eggs; tomato sauce. Make a paste of the ham, bread 
crumbs, salt and pepper, a little melted butter, and enough milk to 
make the mixture a soft paste. Line some gem-pans with this; 
break an egg into each pan. Season, and cover with finely powdered 
crackers, or the paste, if desired. Set in the oven and bake about 10 
minutes or until the eggs are well set. Serve with tomato sauce. 
Mrs. Phillip W. Hammond. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Chop 50 crisp mint leaves very fine, sprinkle with sugar and dash 
of paprika; add a little torriggon vinegar; serve cold. 



MEAT LOAF. 

One pound Hamburger steak; */* pound fresh pork (ground); 10 
milk crackers (rolled); 2 onions, chopped; 1 egg; 1 cup tomatoes or 
two fresh ones; 1 green pepper; 1 tablespoon melted butter. Mix, 
form in loaf, and bake one hour. Mrs. W. Paddock. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Two pounds lean beef; 1 pound suet; 5 pounds apples; 2 pounds 
raisins; 1 pound Sultana raisins; 2 pounds currants; 1/4 pound citron, 
cut fine; 2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon; 2 tablespoonfuls cloves; 1 table- 
spoonful allspice; 1 tablespoonful fine salt; 2^ tablespoons brown 
sugar; 1 teaspoon nutmeg; 1 quart boiled cider. Mrs. J. J. Glen. 

MACARONI AND OYSTERS. 

Cook in boiling salt water 1 cup macaroni; drain; place in layers 
in a buttered bake dish with 1 pint oysters and 1 cup (medium) white 
sauce; alternate layers; 1-3 cup bread crumbs and 2 tablespoons but- 
ter for the top. Bake. Mrs. P. A. McCarty. 

OYSTER BEEF LOAF. 

Mix 2 pounds of ground beef with egg, salt pepper and cracker 
crumbs everything except onions that is put into beef loaf. In place 
of onions use 1 pint of oysters. Good hot or cold. Mrs. L. Davis. 

38 



BREADED PORK CHOPS. 

Trim surplus fat from chops; fry it out in the skillet; roll chops 
in a well beaten egg and then in bread or cracker crumbs; salt and 
pepper and fry slowly in the fat. Mrs. E. A. Zell. 

ROAST PORK CHOPS OR PORK STEAK. 

Put any desired quantity of chops or steaks in baking pan; sea- 
son with salt and pepper and place in hot oven. When chops begin 
to fry add water. Cook about 1^2 hours. Peel sweet or Irish pota- 
toes, season same, and place around meat, allowing 4 of an hour 
to cook. When done remove from pan and make gravy. Mrs. W. 
H. Tremaine. 

PORK CHOPS CREOLE. 

Chop 4 green peppers and 4 little onions; cook until softened in 
drippings; roll 1^ pounds pork chops in flour and brown on both 
sides; then add 1 pint stewed tomatoes, salt, pepper and little sage, 
and boiling water to nearly cover; simmer one hour. Mrs. M. E. 
Davis. 

PORK CUTLETS BREADED. 

Cut the cutlets from a loin of pork and dip them in a dressing 
made as follows: 1 egg, beaten; ^ teaspoon of minced or pounded 
pepper and salt to taste. ' Dip the cutlets in the dressing, roll in 
cracker crumbs and fry slowly until well done and brown. R. 

PIGS IN BLANKETS. 
(An inexpensive meat dish.) 

One pound ground pork; J^ cup uncooked rice; 12 cabbage leaves. 
Mix rice and meat together, season to taste; roll one tablespoonful 
in each cabbage leaf, bind with string; boil two hours. Mrs. Ray- 
mond Dowdell. . 

SALMON PATTIES. 

Fresh or canned salmon; ^ pint cream; cayenne pepper; salt. 
Cut cold cooked salmon into dice; heat about a pint of the dice in the 
cream and season to taste. Serve in patty shells. Cold cooked fish 
of any kind may be made into patties in this way. Use any fish sauce 
you choose. Mrs. Behmer. 

STEAK WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Have steak 1^ to 2 inches thick; let skillet get smoking hot, 
grease with fat from steak; season with salt and pepper; sear the steak 
brown on both sides, keep turning constantly; when well seared cook 
on slow fire for l*/ 2 hours. Rinse and drain mushrooms and cut in 
two; put in with meat when cooked about an hour; when ready to 
serve remove the steak and make a milk gravy with the mushrooms. 
Keep meat well covered while cooking. Miss Lantz. 

39 



"Better Butter" 

Makes the Bread 

Better 



Don't let your grocer send you a 
substitute, for there is no other 
Butter just as good. 

The Fairmont Creamery Co. 

Ph<mes-M. 3343, 3344 Columbus, Ohio 



Citizens 2929 



F. J. Hinterschied 

Groceries, 
Meats and 
Provisions 



Grandview Heights, Ohio 

Bell Hilltop 837 Citizens 9218 



SWISS STEAK. 

Use round steak, cut 2 inches thick, 3 pounds or more; pound 
into it 1 cup flour, and brown on both sides in hot fat; add water 
enough to cook and to form the grayy when done; cook slowly until 
meat is tender. Mrs. O. B. Springer. 

BAKED TONGUE. - 

Boil the tongue with 1 can of tomatoes, y 2 of a lemon and a few 
cloves; ^ teaspoon of allspice; a pinch of celery seed; salt and pep- 
per to taste; take 1 cup of the soup, pour over the tongue and bake. 
Mrs. C. Wilkinson. 

VEAL STEAK. 

One pound veal steak; butter twice size of an egg, and 1 onion. 
Melt butter; brown onion, add steak and cook slowly. Make gravy 
with either milk or water just before serving. Marie Louise Baer. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Two pounds of veal and 3 eggs; y?. pound of fresh pork; 1 cup of 
cracker crumbs; 1 cup of sweet milk; 2 tablespoons of butter; 1 table- 
spoon of salt; y-2 teaspoon of pepper; */2 can of mushrooms (using the 
other half in gravy). Mix well together and shape in loaves. Roast 
one and one-half hours. Mrs. Weist. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Three pounds of veal and ^4 pound of salt pork, ground fine; 2 
eggs; 6 crushed crackers; 2 tablespoons of milk; 1 tablespoon of salt; 
1 level teaspoon of pepper; butter size of walnut; mix all thoroughly, 
make into long roll and bake two hours, basting frequently with 
water slightly seasoned put into pan with loaf. Mrs. J. R. Clements. 



41 



Puddings, Pies and Desserts 



"The proof of the pudding is in the eating." 

NEVER FAIL PIE CRUST. 

Eight tablespoons flour (heaping); 2 tablespoons lard (heaping); 
4 tablespoons water; salt. Mix well, but don't knead on board; press 
together, then roll out. Mrs. E. F. Dwyer. 

PIE CRUST. \lvW/U> 

Salt; 8 tablespoons flour; 4 tablespoons iasd; 2 tablespoons 
V*w; 1 teaspoon baking powder; chop lard in with knife. This 
makes crust enough for one pie with two crusts. Mrs. Field. 

PASTRY. 

One cup flour; 1 heaping tablespoon lard; salt; and just enough 
water to gather it together. Do not knead. For 1 pie. 

.' CORN STARCH OR CREAM PIE. 

One pint milk; 1 tablespoon corn starch; 1 egg; ^ cup granu- 
lated sugar. Beat yolk of egg well and add milk; moisten the corn 
starch in milk; add sugar; heat over slow fire, stirring constantly, or 
in pan of water; pour into the warmed bake shell; beat white pf 
egg, add sugar and a few drops of vanilla and spread over the cus- 
tard; brown in oven. The pie shell can be made of dough left over 
at a previous time. Mrs. Ella A. Zell. 

CREAM PIE. 

One pint milk; 3 tablespoons sugar; yolks of 2 eggs; butter size 
of walnut, and 2 tablespoons corn starch. Cook in double boiler till 
thick, stirring meanwhile; beat whites stiff, adding little sugar. Have 
crust ready baked and brown all in quick oven. Mrs. Chas. Bryson. 

FRENCH PEAR PIE. 

One tablespoon butter; ^ cup sugar; 4 tablespoons milk; 1 cup 
flour; 1 teaspoon baking powder; few grains nutmeg; 1 egg yolk; 2 
egg whites. Slice pears to fill pie tin, and sweeten to taste (about f 
cup); butter tin thoroughly; pack pears into tin, adding 2 table- 
spoons hot water; set in oven, covered, for 10 minutes. Make a bat- 
ter of other ingredients creaming butter and sugar, adding yolks of 
eggs, then milk and the flour mixed with baking powder; pour over 
pears, return to oven for 20 minutes. When done invert on plate, 
cover top with meringue made of the egg whites and 2 tablespoons 
of powdered sugar, brown and serve with whipped or plain cream.' 
Mrs. Fred Schmitt. 

42 



BUTTERSCOTCH PIE. 

One tablespoon butter; 1 cup brown sugar; 1 tablespoon flour; 
1 cup milk; 1 egg. Melt butter in skillet; add the sugar and 4 table- 
spoons of milk; cook 5 minutes; then add the flour, milk and yolk 
of egg which has been previously stirred smoothly together; cook 
until it thickens, stirring all the time; pour in baked crust and make 
meringue of the egg white and brown sugar and place on top and 
brown. Mrs. Walter Whissen. 

BUTTERSCOTCH PIE. 

One pint of sweet milk; 2 eggs; 1 cup of brown sugar; 1 lump of 
butter; 2 tablespoons of corn starch, heaping; use whites for frost- 
ing. Cook in double boiler. Adelaide Conrad. 

LEMON SPONGE PIE. 

Two tablespoons flour; 1 tablespoon butter; 1 cup sugar; 2 eggs, 
separated; 1 cup milk; juice and rind of 1 lemon. Beat flour, butter, 
sugar, egg yolks and lemon together; add milk, stir well and finally 
fold in egg whites, whipped to a stiff froth; pour into a deep pie 
plate lined with rich crust. Bake until a sharp knife inserted will 
come out clean. Mrs. Rhoeletter. 

LEMON PIE. 

Two eggs; 1 lemon; butter size of walnut; 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 
Grate lemon, also juice, mix with 1 cup sugar, flour, yolks of 2 eggs; 
cook in 2 cups of .hot water; beat whites, sprinkle sugar, brown in 
oven. Mae Lampman. 

LEMON PIE. 

Have ready baked a nice under crust; stir together 1 cup sugar 
and 1 tablespoon flour; over this pour 1 cup boiling water, and boil 
10 minutes; next add a lump of butter, juice of 1 lemon, 1 beaten 
egg yolk, and boil up once; beat the egg white stiff, add a little pow- 
dered sugar, spread lightly over pie. Brown in a hot oven. Mrs. 
E. W. Northcraft. 

LEMON PIE. 

Grated rind and juice of 2 lemons; l*/i cups white sugar; 2 heap- 
ing tablespoons unsifted flour or 1 heaping tablespoon corn starch; 
yolks of 3 eggs; 2 cups water; butter size of walnut; cook in double 
broiler until thickens; when cold pour in pie crust already baked; 
use whites of eggs for meringue on top. Makes a large size pie and 
very superior. Mrs. Chas. Butterworth. 

MAPLE CREAM PIE. 

One cup maple syrup; ft cup cream; 1 egg; 2 tablespoons flour 
or corn starch. Mix yolk of egg, the syrup and flour, blended with 
the cream; cook until it thickens; pour in baked crust and make a 
meringue of the egg white and little sugar and spread on top, and 
brown in oven. Mrs. Willoughby. 

43 



ORANGE CREAM PIE. 

Mix y* cup sugar, 1 heaping tablespoon flour and 1 level table- 
spoon corn starch; then add a little milk and 2 egg yolks and beat; 
stir 1 pint of boiling milk into this and let cook until it thickens; 
flavor with orange. Make a meringue of the whites and spread on 
top and brown. Mrs. Nora Craft. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

NT 

For one pie: Yolk of 1 egg; 2 heaping tablespoonfuls of pumpkin; 

y$ cup of sugar; 1 dessert spoon of flour; 1 pint of milk; very little 
ginger, cinnamon and allspice. When crust is ready beat white of 
egg to a stiff froth and stir in above mixture; pinch of salt. Decem- 
ber First. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

For each pie add to 2 heaping tablespoons of pumpkin: 1 well 
beaten egg; l /z cup sugar; $4 pint of milk, a little cr^rn; a pinch of 
salt; cinnamon, ginger, nutmeg and a little lemon juice. Mrs. Fred. 
Wing. 

PINEAPPLE PIE. 

Yolks of 4 eggs, beaten with \y 2 cups sugar, and tablespoons 
flour; then take 1 pint pineapple, chopped fine, and mix thor- 
oughly; add 2 cups of water (cold); cook until thick; bake under 
crust first; make meringue of whites of eggs and brown. This makes 
2 pies. Mrs. Reams. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Three eggs; 1 cup sugar; 4 large tablespoons pumpkin; 1 pint 
cream or very rich milk; pinch salt; cinnamon, nutmeg and ginger, 
to season to taste. C. E. S. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

One quart cooked pumpkin, well drained; 3 quarts milk; 8 
eggs; 3 cups sugar; 54 teaspoon nutmeg; y\ teaspoon ginger; 
54 teaspoon cloves; ^ teaspoon allspice; % teaspoon mace; 
154 teaspoons cinnamon; 1 tablespoon salt. Place pumpkin in large 
bowl; add salt; then add 1 quart of the milk, scalding hot, and mix 
well; then -add 1 quart cold milk and mix again; then add all the 
spices, well mixed, with the sugar, then the remainder of the milk, 
and last of all, the well beaten eggs. Have four large pie plates lined 
with the paste, fill with the mixture, place in a slow oven and bake 
until thick. Will make four large or six small pies. Mrs. G. W. 
Webster. 

THREE DECKER PIE. 

Filling for three decker: Two lemons, juice and grated rind; 1 
cup best Orleans molasses; 1 cup sugar; 2 tablespoons flour; 2 cups 
water; butter size walnut; bring to boiling point; let cool before 
filling pastry. Bottom crust; filling, thin middle crust, filling, top 
crust. Mrs. Thos. Constable. 

44 



COCOANUT TIMBALES. 

One pint milk; 3 tablespoons of cornstarch; 3 tablespoons sugar; 
a pinch of salt; cook above thoroughly in double boiler. One cup of 
grated cocoanut; 2 egg whites, beaten stiff; stir milk into mixture 
before removing from fire; turn into cups to cool. Serve with boiled 
custard. Mrs. Weist. 

'BOILED CUSTARD. 

One pint of milk; J^cup of sugar; 1 level tablespoon of corn 
starch; 2 egg yolks; flavoring; a pinch of salt. This serves six or 
eight. Mrs. Weist. 

CUP CUSTARD. 

//ir 

Two eggs; 2 cups milk; fr cup sugar. Beat together and bake. 
Bake in four cups in water. -Mrs. L. Nau. 

^C CARAMEL CUSTARD. 

Carmelize 5 tablespoons of sugar a light brown; add gradually 
into 4 cups of scalded milk; when sugar is melted pour mixture into 
5 eggs, slightly beaten, and 5 tablespoons sugar; add salt and vanilla; 
strain into buttered mold; bake in pan of water in slow oven until a 
knife, when inserted, will come out clean. Mrs. M. E. Davis. 

BLACK PUDDING. 

Half cup butter; '"*/* cup sugar; ^ cup sweet milk; J^ cup best 
Orleans molasses; ^ teaspoon soda; 2 scant teaspoons cloves; 2 cups 
flour; 2 eggs. Steam two hours. Serve with hard sauce. Mrs. John 
Hussey. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

One pint (heaping) of dried bread; 1 egg; milk to cover; sugar 
to taste; butter; jelly; juice of ^ lemon. Beat yolk of egg and milk 
together, and sweeten; add bread and pieces of butter; bake 20 min- 
utes. When done spread on top bits of jelly or jam the beaten 
white of the egg, into which is folded 1 tablespoon of sugar and the 
juice of y* lemon. Return to oven and brown; serve with cream. 
Mrs. E. A. Zell. 

BROWN-BREAD PUDDING. _ 

One cupful brown-bread crumbs (stale); 2 cups milk; 3 eggs; 2 
tablespoons maple sugar. Soak crumbs in % cupful milk 15 minutes; 
make a custard of the remainder of the milk, eggs and sugar; pour 
it hot over the crumbs; beat the whites of 2 eggs with 1 tablespoon 
sugar and 1 or 2 tablespoons thick cream; stir lightly into the cus- 
tard. Bake half an hour in a moderate oven; eat with cream/ Mrs. 
C. R. Ryan. 

CHERRY PUDDING. 

Two eggs; y* cup sugar; y?. cup sweet milk; 1^ cups of flour; 2 
teaspoons baking powder; y* cup of cherries. Pour batter on top of 
fruit and steam one-half hour. Mrs. Walter Whissen. 

45 



BREAD PUDDING. 

One and one-half cups of toasted bread crumbs; 1 cup sugar; 1 
cup sweet milk; 2 teaspoons baking powder; 1 or 2 eggs; y 2 cup rai- 
sins; y 2 cup currants; y 2 cup nuts; spices, cinnamon, allspice. Sauce: 
Flour, water, sugar, butter; flavor with nutmeg. Mrs. Fred Nesbitt. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

One pint milk; 1 pint bread crumbs; yolks of 3 eggs; 5 tables- 
spoons grated chocolate; scald the milk; add bread crumbs and choc- 
olate; then take from fire and add y 2 cup sugar and the beaten yolks; 
bake in pudding dish 15 minutes. Make meringue of whites of eggs 
and 3 tablespoons sugar; spread over pudding and brown. Serve 
cold with cream. 'Mrs. Reams. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One cup sugar; y 2 cup butter; 1 egg; 1 cup sweet milk; 3 cups 

flour; 2 teaspoons baking powder; bake. Sauce: Two tablespoons 

butter; 1 cup sugar; 1 pint boiling water; 1 tablespoon flour; flavor 
as you prefer. Mrs. Harry Waldo. 

COTTAGE PUDDING WITH FRUIT. 

One-half cup butter; 1 cup sugar; 1 egg; 1 cup water or milk; 
%*/*. cups flour; 2 teaspoons baking powder; a pinch of salt. Cover 
the bottom of baking pan with batter, then layer of fruit with sugar; 
batter again, then fruit, until all used; bake in slow oven. Sauce: 
One cup sugar; 2 tablespoons flour; 2 tablespoons butter; wet with 
milk and add 1 pint boiling water; boil till it thickens and flavor. 
Mrs. Alfred H. Leaman. 

CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING. 

One pint of milk; one square of chocolate, dissolved in very 
scant ^ cup of milk; gradually add rest of milk and beat all; l / 2 cup 
of sugar; 1 tablespoon of butter; 2 cups of bread crumbs; set aside 
to cool; 1 or 2 eggs, well beaten; beat these in well just before 
baking; put in buttered dish and bake three-quarters of an hour in 
moderate oven; serve with hard sauce butter and powdered sugar 
creamed together; flavor with vanilla. Mrs. Weist. 

DUTCH APPLE PUDDING. - 

Sift together 1 pint flour; 1 teaspoon cream tartar; y 2 teaspoon 
soda; 54 teaspoon salt; into a well beaten egg pour ^ cup milk 
(sweet); rub 2 tablespoons butter in the flour; then add egg and 
milk and beat thoroughly; stick all over the top good cooking apples 
or any fruit desired, sugar and bake; serve with sauce or cream and 
sugar. Miss Faye S. Ustic. 

DATE PUDDING. 

One cup chopped dates; y 2 cup sugar; y 2 cup chopped nuts; 2 
teaspoons baking powder; 4 tablespoons cracker crumbs; % teaspoon 
salt; 3 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately. Steam l l / 2 hours. 
Mrs. Oscar Avery. 

46 



DATE PUDDING. 

One cup granulated sugar; 3 eggs, beaten light; 2^ tablespoon- 
fuls flour; J4 teaspoonful baking powder; 1 cup chopped dates; 1 cup 
English walnuts; bake 20 minutes in moderate oven in gem pans. 
This makes nine cakes. Serve with pudding sauce or whipped 
cream. Mrs. C. K. Siebert. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One cup beef suet, chopped fine; 2 cups bread crumbs; 1 cup 
sugar; 1 cup raisins; 1 cup currants; y* cup citron; tablespoon salt; 
2 teaspoons cinnamon; 1 teaspoon cloves; ^ teaspoon grated nutmeg; 
1 level teaspoon soda; 1 cup sweet milk; 4 eggs, well beaten; 1 pint 
flour; flour fruit well; steam four hours. Mrs. Clarence Wing. 

PEACH PUDDING.- 

One egg; J4 cup sugar; *4 teaspoon vinegar; y cup boiling 
water; .% cup flour; J4 teaspoon baking powder; y^ teaspoon salt. 
Pour this batter over cut or canned peaches and bake slowly until 
dough is done. Mrs. Elizabeth Ustic. 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 

Two cups sugar; 1 quart water; 4 tablespoons corn starch; cook 
until thick, stirring all the time; when cool, add 1 can grated pine- 
apple, juice and all; serve with whipped cream. Fine for sick. Mrs. 
Mae Lampman. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Half cup molasses; y* cup suet or butter; y* cup sweet milk or 
water; 1^ cups flour; 1^ cups fruit; 1 teaspoon soda; J4 teaspoon 
cloves; 1 teaspoon allspice, cinnamon, nutmeg; steam one hour, or 
bake. Eat with sauce. Mrs. J. J. Glen. 

PRUNE MERINGUE. ' 

Whites of 4 eggs; ^ teaspoon cream tartar; y* teaspoon salt; 
beat stiff; add ^ cup powdered sugar and 1 scant cup prunes that 
have been cooked, stoned and chopped fine; put into a mold and 
set in a pan of hot water; bake 20 minutes in moderate oven. Serve 
in tall glasses with whipped cream or a custard made of the yolks 
of the eggs, 1 pint of milk, with sugar and vanilla to suit taste. Mrs. 
J. Livingston. 

PUDDING. 

One egg; *^ cup sugar; ^ cup sweet milk; 2 tablespoons butter; 
nutmeg to taste; 1 pinch of salt; ^ teaspoon soda; 1 teaspoon cream 
tartar; 1^ cups flour. Sauce for pudding: 1^ pints boiling water; 
smooth 1 tablespoon corn starch with cold water and stir in boiling 
water. Flavor and sweeten to taste. Tested. L. M. 

47 



LORD CALVERT COFFEE 

(STEEL CUT) 

An aristocrat in name and quality. Good since 1 847 and 
still unexcelled. A 40c Coffee for 36c or 3 IBs. for $1.00. 
A quarter pound sample free at our office or mailed for 5c. 

Lord Calvert Distributors, 176 South Third Street 
Phone Main 2890 

The BROWN DYE HOUSE c. 

DYERS AND CLEANERS 

MAIN OFFICE AND WORKS, 1092 NORTH HIGH STREET 
Citizeni Phone 7506 Bell, North 1 70 

EAST BRANCH, N. W. COR. OAK AND PARSONS 
Citizens Phone 1 7294 Bell, Main 679 

When you buy 

MILK AND CREAM 

from 

F. E. WILLBARGER 

You may be sure that you are getting the best at 
a MODERATE price. 

BE HEALTHY Eat 

Ingram's Macaroni, Spaghetti and 
Prepared Pancake and Buckwheat Flour 

MADE BY 

The Ingram Macaroni and Pancake Co. 
Columbus, Ohio 



RICE PUDDING. 

Boil rice 2 hours; 1 thin layer of rice, spread thin layer of jelly, 
sugar and nuts; repeat until pan is filled; beat whites of 2 eggs; 
spread; put in oven until brown. Mae Lampman. 

RASPBERRY SAUCE FOR PUDDING. 

One cup of sugar; ^ cup of butter beaten to a cream (I add 1 
tablespoon hot water as it creams easier and quicker); when creamy 
add 1 cup red raspberries and beat until thoroughly mixed. Mrs. 
Smucker. 

X 7 SUET PUDDING. 

One cup finely chopped suet; 1 cup molasses; 1 cup milk; 3 cups 
flour; 1 teaspoon soda; 1^2 teaspoons salt; 1 teaspoon cinnamon; J^ 
teaspoon cloves and nutmeg; add raisins and nuts as preferred; 
steam three hours. Makes 5 in ^ pound baking tins. Mrs. Wendell 
Paddock. 

ST. JAMES PUDDING. 

One-quarter cup butter; 1 cup brown sugar; 1 tablespoon mo- 
lasses; 1 cup sweet milk; a little salt; ^2 teaspoon soda; % teaspoon 
cinnamon; y* teaspoon nutmeg; 1 cup raisins; flour to stiffen as for 
cake; steam two hours. Serve with any pudding sauce. Mrs. W. E. 
Baker. 



SUET PUDDING. 

Two cups sour milk; 1 quart flour; 1 cup brown sugar; 1 cup 
suet; 2 cups raisins; salt; teaspoon soda; ^ cup dark molasses. Mrs. 
Clarence Thompson. 

APPLE GRUMP. 

Pare and eighth apples enough to cover the bottom of the pan 
crowded; make soft biscuit dough; pour on apples and bake; when 
done, turn out on plate with apples up and butter, sugar and spice, 
and return to the oven for a few minutes. Mrs. Emlie Frankenberg. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Apples; powdered sugar; fritter batter. Pare, core and cut your 
apples into small slices. Stir into* a good fritter batter and fry in 
boiling hot fat. Drain on paper and sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

CANDIED APPLES. __ 

Select 6 nice red apples; pare and core, leaving a band of red 
around each apple. Make a syrup of 1^ cups of granulated sugar; 
drop apples in, cover, and cook until tender. Remove to individual 
plates and insert a marshmallow into each apple and on top of 
marshmallow a candied cherry. Pour syrup over all and serve with 
whipped cream. Mrs. W. T. Eaton. 

49 



CREAM PUFFS. 

One-half cup of butter, melted in 1 cup of hot water; put in a 
small pan on stove to boil; while boiling stir in 1 cupful of flour, 
take off and let cool; when cold, stir in 3 eggs, 'one after the other, 
without beating; drop on buttered tins and bake in a hot oven 25 
or 30 minutes; fill with whipped cream. Mrs. W. J. Hendershott. 

DATE SOUFFLE. 

One pound dates, chopped; 1 cup walnuts; 2 eggs, well beaten; 
1 tablespoon sugar; 1 tablespoon flour; 2 tablespoons milk; 1 tea- 
spoon baking powder. Bake in very slow oven 30 minutes. Serve 
with whipped cream; Mrs. Willoughby. 



FOOD OF THE GODS. 

One cup of dates; 1 cup of nuts; 1 cup of sugar; pinch of salt; 

2 eggs; 1 teaspoon baking powder; 1 teaspoon flavor; stir eggs, salt, 
and sugar, don't beat; add flour and baking powder, and cover with 
milk and bake for 45 minutes; bake in slow oven. Serve with 
whipped cream. Mrs. Rohletter. 

FLOAT. 

One quart milk; 1 tablespoon corn starch; 3 tablespoons sugar; 

3 yolks of eggs; pinch salt; boil and pour over beaten whites; flavor. 
Mrs. Mae Lampman. 

\f FOOD FOR THE GODS. 

English walnuts (in shell) one pound; Y$ pound dates; chop; 
cracker crumbs (12 crackers) or 9 tablespoons; 2 teaspoons baking 
powder; 5 eggs; 2 cups granulated sugar; beat eggs separately; mix 
crackers, fruit, nuts and baking powder; add sugar to beaten yolks, 
then add whites and other ingredients. Bake one hour in slow 
oven; paper the pan; bake several days before using; will keep a 
month in cold weather. Serve with whipped cream. Mrs. Harry E. 
Smith. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

One cup sugar; 1 egg; juice and grated rind of 1 lemon; 1 pint 
water; 1 tablespoon butter; 1 tablespoon of corn starch. Mrs. Clar- 
ence Thompson. 

MACAROON SURPRISE. 

One-quarter box gelatin in ^ cup cold water; 2 cups milk; 3 
egg yolks; 1-3 cup sugar; pinch salt; 2 /z cup macaroons; flavoring. 
Beat yolks; add milk, salt and sugar; when near boiling point add 
gelatin; let this cool; add macaroon crumbs, whites beaten stiff and 
flavoring. Serve with whipped cream, finely chopped nuts or mar- 
aschino cherries. Mrs. W. G. Willson. 

50 



MOUNTAIN DEW PUDDING. 

One pint milk; yolks of 2 eggs; ^ cup cocoanut; y 2 cup rolled 

crackers; y 2 cup sugar; 1 teaspoon lemon; bake half hour. Make 

frosting of whites of 2 eggs; *4 cup sugar; brown in oven. Serve 
hot or cold. Mrs. W. G. Willson. 

MARSHMALLOW PUDDING. 

One pound marshmallows; 1 pint pineapple, cut up somewhat; 
y 2 pint whipped cream; 1 cup chopped nut meats. Put marshmallows 
and pineapple .juice on stove over very slow fire to melt; when cool 
add pineapple, nuts and cream. Mrs. W. G. Willson. 

PEACH OR APPLE ROLL. - 

One pint flour; 1 teaspoon baking powder; 1 tablespoon lard and 
butter mixed; 1 pinch of salt; enough milk to make a dough. Roll 
long as for jelly roll; cover with sliced peaches or apples and roll 
slice like jelly roll. Take 1 cup sugar; 1 cup water; 1 scant cup but- 
ter or less; pour over and bake a light brown. Mrs. A. R. Markle. 

PRUNE WHIP. 

Stew 1 pound of prunes; remove stones and pick fruit into small 
bits; stir well with chopped nuts; add well beaten whites of 2 eggs; 
iy 2 cups granulated sugar. Bake in slow oven; serve with whipped 
cream. Mrs. Penny. 

Y PINEAPPLE SURPRISE. 

One cup of cooked rice; 1 cup of grated or minced pineapple, 
juice of pineapple and enough water to make 1 large cup; 1 envelope 
Knox gelatin; 1 pint whipped cream; scant cup of sugar. Mrs. M. 
E. Davis. 

PEACH COBBLER. 

Two eggs; y 2 cup sugar; 1 cup flour; 1 teaspoon baking powder; 
2 tablespoons boiling water; make thin batter; grease pan; pour half 
of batter in bottom, pour ; in peaches and pour on balance of batter. 
Bake in slow oven. Serve with cream. Mrs. Smucker. 

STRAWBERRY DUMPLINGS. 

One cupful sugar; 1 tablespoonful butter; 2*/ cupfuls fresh straw- 
berries; 2 cupfuls boiling water; 1 cupful bread flour; 2 teaspoonfuls 
baking powder; ^ teaspoonful salt; 24 cupful rich milk. Put together 
the sugar, butter, strawberries and hot water, and let simmer for a 
few minutes. In the meantime mix together the flour baking pow- 
der, salt and milk. Drop batter in eight portions onto the boiling 
syrup, cover tightly and boil for 20 minutes without removing the 
lid. Serve hot with sauce. Most any fruit dumplings may be made 
in the same way. Mrs. Lee. 

51 



PINEAPPLE DELIGHT. 

Two p^Sffls rice; 1 cup chopped pineapple; ^ cup sugar; 2 cups 
boiling water or pineapple juice; 1 tablespoon gelatin; 1 cup whipped 
cream; pinch of salt; boil the rice till very soft; drain. Dissolve the 
gelatin in the boiling juice (or water); then add the sugar and rice; 
let cool; then add the salt, pineapple and whipped cream; chill, and 
serve in dainty glasses with candied cherry on top. Mrs. J. Living- 
ston. 

QUICK SALLY LUNN. 

One cup sugar; y 2 cup butter; 1 or 2 eggs; 1 pint milk; flour to 
make batter stiff as cake; 2 tablespoons baking powder. Bake in gem 
pans; eat hot with butter and syrup. Mrs. Chas. Butterworth. 

ORANGE SHORTCAKE. 

One-quarter cup butter; 1 tablespoon sugar; 2 cups flour; j cup 
milk; 1 egg; 3 level teaspoons baking powder; ^ teaspoon salt. Bake 
in hot oven 20 minutes. Serve with sliced oranges which have set 
for 15 or 20 minutes covered with sugar. Over this pour a sauce 
made with 1 tablespoon butter; 1 tablespoon flour; 2 cups boiling 
water; vanilla. Mrs. Charles A. Holl. 

PEACH SHORTCAKE. 

One cup flour; >1 teaspoon baking powder; y^ teaspoon salt; 1 
tablespoon sugar; sift all together and rub in 1 tablespoon of butter; 
add 1 well beaten egg and enough milk to make cake batter; spread 
thin in pan and bake in hot oven. Wash 1 quart peaches; add % cup 
sugar; serve with the cake either hot or cold, with or without whipped 
cream. (Either fresh or canned peaches can be used. You can gar- 
nish with the halves of peaches if you wish. Mrs. Wm. Hague. 

SHORTCAKE. 

One quart flour; 2 tablespoons butter; 2 tablespoons sugar; 2 
tablespoons baking powder; 1 teaspoon salt; 1 egg, and milk. Mrs. 
Chas. Bryson. 

SHORTCAKE. - 

Two cups flour; 2 teaspoons baking powder; y^ teaspoon salt; 1 
tablespoon sugar; 2 tablespoons butter; 1-3 cup cream; 2 eggs. Mrs. 
Wendel Paddock. 



52 



Pickles 



'Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers." 



COLD VINEGAR PICKLES. 

Wash cucumbers good; then put them in a stone jar; pour boiling 
water over them three times, letting it get cold each time; then wipe 
dry and pack in jars. Then to 2 quarts cider vinegar add 1 cup of 
dark brown sugar; J^ cup of salt; Y-Z cup of Colman's mustard; pour 
over pickles cold. These keep without sealing. Mrs. G. Rohletter. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

One dozen cucumbers; ^ dozen onions; slice and stand in salt 
water for 1 hour; drain; cover with the following: 1 pint vinegar; 1 
cup sugar; 1 teaspoon ginger; 1 teaspoon black pepper; 1 teaspoon 
salt; 1 teaspoon mustard seed; 1 teaspoon celery seed; 1 teaspoon 
cinnamon bark; 1 teaspoon tumeric. Heat and seal. Mrs. Morris 
Sidebottom. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

One gallon green tomatoes; 6 large onions; 1 quart vinegar; 1 
heaping cup brown sugar; 1 tablespoon salt; 1 tablespoon black pep- 
per; 1 tablespoon mustard seed; 5^ teaspoon ground allspice; y* tea- 
spoon ground cloves; ^ teaspoon ground cinnamon. Slice tomatoes 
and onions. Put all materials together in granite kettle and stew 
until tomatoes look clear and are tender. Put in glass jars and seal 
hot. Mrs. Penny. 

MUSTARD PICKLES. 

One peck cucumbers; 1 peck onions; ^ peck string beans; 3 
heads cauliflower; 3 bunches celery; ^ dozen sweet peppers. Soak 
in strong salt water over night; drain and cut into shape. Scald in 
weak salt water; ^ pound mustard (Colman's); 2 packages Curry 
powder; 6 quarts vinegar; bring to boil and pour over pickles in 
jars. Do not seal while scalding. Thicken with little flour. Mrs. 
Henry Butterworth, 

MUSTARD PICKLE. 

One quart small cucumbers; 1 quart large ones, pared and 
sliced; 1 quart small onions; 1 quart sliced green tomatoes; 1 large 
head cauliflower; ^ dozen green peppers. Put these in weak brine 
for 24 hours; then scald in same and drain. The dressing: 2 quarts 
vinegar; l^ cups sugar; 6 tablespoons ground mustard; 1 tablespoon 
tumeric; ^ cup flour. Cook until this comes to a boil; add the 
vegetables and let all come to a boil and seal. Mrs. Nora Craft. 

53 



DILL PICKLES. 

Soak pickles in salt water over night; wipe dry; put layer of pickles, 
layer of grape leaves and horseradish root; pack in half gallon jars. 
Make brine of 6 quarts water; 1 quart vinegar; 1 pint salt; pour over 
while boiling hot and seal. Mrs. Raymond Dowdell. 

SMALL SOUR PICKLES. 

For three hundred (300) small cucumbers: 1 gallon vinegar (not 
very strong); 1 pint salt; 1 pint sugar; y 2 pint Coleman's dry mus- 
tard; let stand over night. Brush cucumbers while dry; wash and 
dry, fill jars with cucumbers; slice a little horseradish root, about 1 
root for the 300 pickles; a small amount of red pepper, about Y* a 
pepper for the 300 pickles; use the fresh peppers; pour the mixture 
over the cucumbers and seal; use no heat. Helen L. Hague. 

SWEET PICKLES. 

Cherries, pears, quinces and cling peaches should all be cooked 
until tender in plain water. Drain and use the liquid in making the 
sweet pickles syrup. Use 3 pints sugar to 1 quart vinegar and stick 
cinnamon and whole cloves; make syrup and pour over the fruit; 
drain the second and third day and boil down. When rich enough 
the third day add the fruit and boil it a few minutes and place in 
jars. Plums and smooth skinned fruits must be pricked. Handle 
fruit just as little as possible to keep it whole. Tested. 

SPANISH PICKLE. 

One and one-half dozen big cucumbers; 2 medium sized heads 
cabbage; 6 onions; 2 red peppers. Remove seeds, grind together; add 
salt and let stand over night; in morning squeeze out water. Add 1 
ounce white mustard seed; 2 ounces celery seed; 1 ounce tumeric; 1 
ounce ground mustard; 3 pounds brown sugar; 2 quarts vinegar; 
boil together and pour over ground mixture; cook two minutes and 
sea l. Mrs. Fred Nesbitt. 

V" PICKLES THAT MAY BE MADE ANY TIME. 

Twelve large dill pickles; slice crossways, about 2 inch pieces; 
alternate in jar with slices of onion. Boil in vinegar (not too strong) 
enough to cover pickles, 6 cups sugar; y 2 of a 5c package cinnamon 
bark; 1 tablespoon celery seed; 2 tablespoons white mustard seed; 
1 teaspoon whole cloves. Pour over pickles while boiling hot. Let 
stand over night, reheat vinegar and pour over three times. Blanche 
Gray Newhouse. 

SWEET GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

Slice 1 peck of smooth green tomatoes and 2 quarts of white 
onions. Place in a jar, sprinkling with a generous layer of salt. Put 
a plate and weight on top. In the morning drain off the liquid and 
rinse tomatoes well with cold water. Put in vinegar enough to cover. 
Add 2 pounds of brown sugar; 2 tablespoons of whole spices; cook 
until tender, but not soft. Put in glass jars and seal. Edith M. 
Thomas. 

54 



SCHOOL PICKLES. 

To 1 dozen school pickles, cut in ^ inch slices, add 1*^ cups gran- 
ulated sugar. Let stand until sugar dissolves. Mrs. L. Smith. 

PICKLES. 

Put pickles in salt water for two days. Take 1 pint of vinegar to 
1 pint of water and heat the pickles in this thoroughly. In another 
vessel put 1 quart of vinegar to 1 pint of water; 1 cup of sugar; 2 
tablespoons of salt, mustard and celery seed and 1 whole red pepper 
cut up. Let this boil. Put pickles in jar in this way: a layer of 
pickles, then onions, and so on until jar is full; then pour this mix- 
ture over them. Put a small piece of alum on top. 

CUCUMBER RELISH. 

Twenty-four large cucumbers; 10 good sized onions; 2 red pep- 
pers. Chop fine and drain; put in kettle, cover with vinegar, scald; 
can while hot. Mrs. Raymond Dowdell. 

CRANBERRY RELISH. 

Cook 1 quart of cranberries till soft in a little water; then strain; 
add Yz cup vinegar in which you have boiled 10 cloves 10 minutes; 
remove cloves before adding vinegar to pulp; cook 1 hour; add 2 
cups sugar, cook 10 minutes, then bottle. Use with meats. 

Y CORN RELISH. 

One large head cabbage, cut fine; 6 peppers; 3 tablespoonfuls 
celery seed; 3 tablespoonfuls mustard seed; 3 pints cooked corn. Salt 
the cabbage, drain off the water, mix the peppers and spices with 
cabbage and corn. Make a dressing of 3 pints vinegar; 2 table- 
spoonfuls corn starch; 1 cup sugar; 1 teaspoonful of tumeric; 1 table- 
spoonful yellow ground mustard, if liked. Pour boiling hot over all 
and seal. Mrs. O. P. DeWitt, Gloucester, N. J. 

CORN RELISH. 

Three dozen corn; 1 dozen red peppers; 2 heads cabbage; 4 cups 
sugar; 1 gallon vinegar; y^ pound ground mustard. Chop peppers and 
cabbage, mix and boil 10 minutes. Seal while hot. 

CORN RELISH. 

Half dozen ears corn; 1 head cabbage, 4 green peppers, 4 onions 
(ground); 1 tablespoon tumeric; ^ pound Coleman's mustard; 2 
bunches celery; 2 quarts vinegar; 2 pounds sugar; 3 tablespoons salt; 
add salt when it starts to boil. Boil 45 minutes and can immedi- 
ately. (One dozen pints.) Mrs. E. P. Gerhold. 

BEET RELISH. 

Two cups chopped cooked beets; ^ cup sugar; y^ cup grated 
horseradish root; y-z cup salt; vinegar to cover. Mix ingredients and 
serve cold as a relish with the meat course at dinner. Mrs. Rains. 

55 



The West Side Lumber Co. 

CAMP CHASE, O. 

LUMBER AND 

BUILDERS' MILL WORK 

BEAVER BOARD, ASPHALT SHINGLES 
AND ASPHALT ROOFINGS 

ESTIMATES FREE 
CITIZENS PHONE 6277 BELL HILLTOP 177 

Yard and Mill, West Broad St. and Big Four Crossing 

When You Bake Your Next Cake 

Don't Use Expensive Butter, but Try Our 
World-Famous 




ABOUT HALF THE PRICE OF BUTTER, and you can 
use one-third less quantity and get the same results 
butter would give. Churned by 

Capital City Dairy Co., Columbus, 0. 

FOR SALE BY 

H. E. DAVIS, Marble Cliff 

BEN DELWESE, Marble Cliff 

GRANDVIEW MARKET, Grandview 



CUCUMBER RELISH. 

Three quarts cucumbers, sliced thin; 4 large onions, sliced thin; 
1 cup ground horseradish; 1 cup salt, stirred through them; 2 green 
peppers, chopped; let stand three hours; drain; cover with 1 quart 
vinegar; 2 cups sugar; 2 tablespoons mixed spices; 1 teaspoon tu- 
meric powder. Heat to boiling point. Pour over while hot. Mrs. 
James Glenn. 

BEET RELISH. 

One quart chopped cooked beets; 1 quart raw cabbage; 1 cup 
grated horseradish; 2 bunches celery, chopped; mix and add 2 cups 
sugar; 1 tablespoon salt; 1 tablespoon white mustard seed; 1 tea- 
spoon celery seed, and enough vinegar to cover. Bring to boiling 
point and can. Mrs. J. B. Pinney. 

RHUBARB RELISH. 
(For meat course.) 

Cut in small pieces 1 cup rhubarb; add y?. cup water; 1^ cups 
sugar; pulp and sliced rind of a lemon and an orange; % package 
raisins; y* package currants. Cook all over a slow fire. Seal in 
glasses when thick. Mrs. D. S. Field. 

PEPPER RELISH. 

Six yellow peppers; 6 red peppers; 6 green peppers; 6 onions; 1 
good sized cabbage. Run these through the grinder. Pour 1 cup of 
salt over this and "let set over night. In the morning, drain; then 
add 1 scant quart of vinegar; 1 pint of sugar; 1 large tablespoon cel- 
ery seed; 1 large tablespoon white mustard. Mrs. Elizabeth Ustic. 

RELISH (Nothing Cooked). 

One large or 2 small heads cabbage; 24 mangoes; 6 onions, grind 
or chop; 1 handful salt; celery and mustard seed; let stand over 
night; 1 quart vinegar; same of sugar dissolved; then pour on and 
set away in jar. Mrs. D. S. Fields. 

PEPPER HASH. 

Eight each of green, yellow and red mango peppers; 2 heads 
cabbage; 1 dozen onions; chop and add y 2 cup salt, and stand over 
night; drain; cover with the following dressing and can cold. Dress- 
ing: \y 2 pints granulated sugar; 4 tablespoons white mustard seed; 
4 tablespoons celery seed; l / 2 gallon vinegar. Mrs. Harry Waldo. 

CATSUP. 

One bushel ripe tomatoes; 4 pounds brown sugar; 5 cups vine- 
gar; 2 onions; 1 tablespoon cloves; 1 tablespoon allspice; 1 table- 
spoon cinnamon; l / 2 teaspoon red pepper; y 2 cup salt. Cook toma- 
toes and onions until well done, and strain them; cook then until 
thick. Add spices, sugar and vinegar and cook until thick again. 
Seal up. Edna L. Walcutt. 

57 



CHOW-CHOW. 

Half bushel green tomatoes; 1 dozen each green peppers and 
onions; 2 hot red peppers; chop fine; sprinkle over this 1 pint salt; 
let stand 12 hours; drain, and cook y* hour in vinegar; drain, and 
cover with the following dressing: 2 pounds brown sugar; 2 table- 
spoons cinnamon; 2 tablespoons allspice; y 2 cup dry mustard; 1 pint 
grated horseradish; vinegar to make thin. Pour over the vegetables 
and heat hot and place in a tight jar. Fine. Mrs. H. B. Skeele. 
Worthington. 

GREEN TOMATO CHOW-CHOW. 

One peck green tomatoes; y 2 peck string beans; ^ peck small 
onions; y$ peck green and red peppers; 2 large heads cabbage; chop 
and sprinkle over them a pint of salt; let stand over night and drain. 
Dressing: 1 l /2 pounds brown sugar; 1 small box Colman's mustard; 
4 tablespoons white mustard seed; 2 tablespoons celery seed; 2 table- 
spoons cloves; 2 tablespoons allspice; 1 tablespoon cinnamon; y* 
ounce of tumeric; mix dry ingredients; add enough vinegar so that 
it will cover the vegetables and cook % hour. Mrs. A. Share. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Twelve large tomatoes (ripe); 2 medium sized onions, chopped 
fine; 1 large sweet red pepper, also chopped; boil 1 hour slowly; 
then add 2J4 cups vinegar (if very strong weaken with water); 1 cup 
brown sugar; 2 tablespoons salt; 1 teaspoon each of cinnamon and 
ginger; y* teaspoon cloves; boil two hours longer. This is fine. 
Mrs. J. Livingston. 

BENGAL CHUTNEY. 

Thirteen large sour apples (more if small); 13 large ripe toma- 
toes; 6 large onions, chopped finely; cover all with 3 pints good vin- 
egar and allow to boil till it is all just a mass; boil slowly; then add 
1 pound brown sugar; *4 pound salt (more or less); ^ pound mus- 
tard seed; ^4 pound ground ginger; little cayenne pepper; y 2 pound 
chopped raisins; put all together and boil again slowly. Two large 
heads of celery and several green and red peppers are a nice addi- 
tion if liked. Olive Lyford, Vancouver, B. C. 



58 



Salads 



"O! Green and Glorious, Oh! Herbaceous meat! 
'Twould tempt the dying Anchorite to eat; 
Back to the world he'd turn his fleeting soul 
And plunge his fingers in the salad bowl." 



BOILED HAM SALAD, f- 

Chopped ham; chopped cabbage; chopped celery or celery seed; 
2 eggs; 2 tablespoons sugar; butter; 1 teaspoon mustard; vinegar. 
Take equal quantities of ham, cabbage and celery; put sugar, butter, 
mustard and vinegar into a bowl, set into a pan of boiling water 
and /boil to a cream, stirring constantly; let it get cold and before 
serving pour over the mixture. Mrs. W. Weinman. 

CELERY AND NUT SALAD. 

Cut hearts of crisp celery into .'small pieces; remove brown cov- 
ering from Brazil nuts; meat chop or slice; use twice the amount of 
celery as nut meats; toss together and mix with mayonnaise. Ar- 
range each portion on a thick slice of peeled and seeded orange set 
in a nest of lettuce heart 'leaves. Mask with mayonnaise and sprinkle 
with finely chopped red peppers. Mrs. W. C. Adams. 

CREAMED CABBAGE SLAW. ~ 

Put into sauce pan */ 2 tablespoon of butter; 2 tablespoons sugar, 
and 1 cupful of vinegar; then heat to boiling point. Rub 1 level 
teaspoon of flour to paste with 2 tablespoons of sour cream; add 
1 beaten egg and 6 more tablespoons of cream. Pour over this 
carefully the hot vinegar mixture and return to the fire, stirring 
until thickened. Strain it over 2 quarts of finely shaved cabbage, 
which has previously been seasoned with salt and pepper; chop 2 red 
and one green peppers and mix with the cabbage before pouring 
over cream dressing. Mrs. Smucker. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. - 

Two cucumbers; ^ cup sour cream; 3^ cup vinegar; 1 onion; salt; 
pepper. Cut cucumbers and onions on a slaw cutter, sprinkle with 
salt and let stand one hour; drain thoroughly, mix with cream and 
vinegar; add pepper to taste. Serve cold. Mrs. W. Weinman. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

One pound English walnuts; 1 pound marshmallows; 1 pound 
white grapes; 1 can pineapple. Dressing: Yolks of 4 eggs; 1 tea- 
spoon flour; juice of 1 lemon; pinch salt; 1 cup milk. Cook and let 
cool. Add 1 pint whipped cream. Serve 15. Mrs. C. K. Seibert. 

59 



FRUIT SALAD. - 

A beautiful and delicious salad of my own manufacture. On salad 
plate arrange lettuce leaves or endive; then 1 slice pineapple which 
has been thoroughly drained; add chopped pecan meats, apple and 
celery; few Almeria grapes which have had the seeds removed; 
cover this with mayonnaise dressing. When ready to serve put a 
tablespoon of whipped cream on top and drop a Maraschino cherry 
in the cream. Miss Lantz. 

FRUIT SALAD Excellent. 

One pound white grapes, cut in two and seeded; 1 pound English 
walnuts, shell and break in pieces; 1 can best pineapple, diced; J4 
pound marshmallows, cut in quarters. Dressing: Beat the yolks of 
4 eggs; mix in ^ cup sweet milk; when well blended add juice of 1 
lemon and a little salt. Whip J/ pint double cream and when dress- 
ing 1 is cool stir the cream into very lightly. Pour over fruit mixture 
and stir lightly. Let stand two to four hours before serving. Will 
serve 15 plates. Mrs. Rhoads. 

^f FISH SALAD. 

Take any fish and pick into small pieces; use 2 cups celery, cut 
fine, to 1 of fish; cover with salad dressing. Serve on lettuce and 
garnish with strips of red peppers. To improve it some of the salad 
dressing may be mixed with whipped cream and placed on top be- 
fore the peppers. Tested. N. B. S. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Dressing: Put the yolk of 3 eggs into the juice of 1 lemon; 54 
teaspoon mustard; */2 cup of milk; cook until thickens and set aside 
to cool. Cut in half and seed 1 pound malaga grapes; cut into small 
squares 1 large can of pineapple and Yz pound of marshmallows; 
cover this with the dressing and add about 1 quart of whipped cream. 
Let stand three or four hours before serving. When ready to serve, 
add a dime's worth of pecans. Mrs. F. B. Allen. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Half pound marshmallows, quartered; 1 pound English walnuts, 
broken; 1 pound white grapes, halved; 1 can pineapple, diced. 
Dressing: Yolks of 4 eggs, beaten; mix in J4 cup sweet milk, and 
when well blended add juice of 1 lemon and pinch of salt. Cook 
until thick, stirring all the time. When cool add ^ pint whipped 
cream and stir lightly together. Pour over fruit mixture and stir 
lightly. Let stand two to four hours before serving. Enough for 
15 plates. Mrs. E. P. Gerhold. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Remove skins from Malaga grapes, cut in halves and remove 
seeds; add an equal amount of chopped nut meats, and ^ the amount 
each of finely chopped celery and tart apples. Sprinkle with salt and 
place on lettuce leaves and serve with mayonnaise dressing, to which 
a cupful of whipped cream has been added just before serving. Mrs. 
Harry Karns. 

60 



FRUIT SALAD. 

Take 2 bananas, 2 apples, 1 orange and half a cup of English wal- 
nuts. Dice fruit, chop nuts, and mix with salad dressing. Mrs W. 
T. Eaton. 

FRESH PINEAPPPLE SALAD. 

One small pineapple; honey salad dressing; lettuce hearts. Pare 
the pineapple and remove the eyes; chip into small slices, dress with 
honey dressing let stand 30 minutes. Serve on lettuce hearts. Mrs. 
Lee. 

HEAVENLY SALAD. 

One box marshmallows, cut in small pieces; 1 cup pecan nut 
meats; 1 pound Malaga grapes, seeded and cut in halves; 1 can pine- 
apple, cut in small pieces. Dressing: Yolks 4 eggs; pinch salt; % tea- 
spoon mustard; y 2 cup milk; juice 1 lemon. Cook until it thickens. 
Add 1 pint of whipped cream before mixing with fruit. Mrs. Wil- 
loughby. 

MARSHMALLOW SALAD. 

One pound marshmallows; 1 pound Malaga grapes; y 2 nuts (Eng- 
lish walnuts or cherries); 1 quart can of pineapple. Dressing: One 
egg, beaten^ ^ teaspoon of mustard; juice of 2 lemons; ^ cup of 
pine apple juice; l / 2 teaspoon of corn starch, dissolved in water. 
Cook until thick. Add \ l / 2 pint of whipped cream. This will serve 
about 25 people. Mrs. P. A. McCarty. 

MARACHINO SALAD. 

Soak y 2 envelope of gelatin in 54 cup cold water; dissolve in 1 
cupful of boiling water; add y 2 cup sugar, juice of 1 lemon and T / 2 cup 
Maraschino. When it begins to thicken add 2 sliced oranges; 12 to 
15 Marachino cherries, and 24 CU P f white grapes cut in half and 
seeded. Add 1 tablespoonful English walnuts, chopped fine; turn 
into molds. Serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise dressing. 
Mrs. J. B. Younge. 

MARSHMALLOW SALAD. 

Ten oranges; 1 can marshmallows; 1 can sliced pineapple. Peel 
oranges, separate into natural sections and cut each section in 
pieces; also cut pineapple in pieces. Place fruit in colander in ice 
box to chill and drain. Serve with boiled dressing with whipped 
cream in it. Mrs. W. E. Baker. 

MOCK TOMATO SALAD. 

Select desired number of apples that will not "cook up", core and 
peel; color a syrup deeply red with a vegetable coloring and cook 
apples, slowly two or three at a time until tomato colored, and being 
careful not to cook long enough to become soft through. Fill centers 
with chopped nuts and celery mixed with mayonnaise and put a 
spoonful over the apple. Serve on lettuce. Edith B. Scofield. 

^ / 

61 



^ TOMATO ASPIC. 

Three cups tomato juice; 1 package of Knox gelatin; 1 cup of 
diced celery; 1 cup of cucumbers. Take 2 small onions, few all- 
spice, bay leaf, place in tomato juice; simmer and strain through 
sieve; dissolve gelatin in 2 tablespoons of cold water; on this pour 
the hot juice. Place on stove until gelatin is dissolved; then add 
pulp; let stand till cold; then add celery and cucumber. Mrs. J. H. 
Nau. 

TOMATO JELLY (SALAD). 

One pint can tomatoes; 1 small onion; 2 or 3 stalks of celery, 
cut fine. Add a little water; stew to a pulp. Add ^4 teaspoon soda; 
strain through a fine sieve. To 1 pint of the liquid add 1 tablespoon 
granulated gelatin, softened in cold water. Season to taste with 
salt, pepper and sugar. Pour into a mold or individual molds. When 
stiffened serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise dressing. Mrs. C. 
M. Garwood. 

PEA, CHEESE AND NUT SALAD. 

To the required amount of peas add grated and chopped nuts; 
mix with salad dressing, and serve on lettuce. Sina Cochran, Kirks- 
ville, Mo. 

PEACH SALAD. 

Peel, cut in halves, remove pit and chill 4 or more large peaches. 
Serve on head lettuce with the centers filled with finely shredded pine- 
apple and chopped almonds. Mask with creamed mayonnaise and 
sprnkle fine shreds of Marachino cherries over all. Mrs. W'm. C. 
Adams. 

SALAD. 

One small head cabbage; 2 pimentos; 3 hard boiled eggs; .10 
cheese. Salad dressing. Mrs. P. A. McCarty. 

SALMON SALAD. 

One can salmon; 1 can peas; y 2 small onion; 2 eggs, hard boiled; 
2 stalks celery. Chop onion and egg with celery and salmon after 
picking it to pieces; cook peas; when cold add them; serve with may- 
onnaise dressing. Mrs. W. Wleinman. 

SUMMER VEGETABLE SALAD."" 

Eight cooked potatoes cold; 2 onions; 3 tomatoes; 1 small cu- 
cumber; 4 hard boiled eggs; a little celery. Cut up all of the vege- 
tables, celery and 2 eggs in small dice, season with salt and pepper 
and pure cider vinegar until soured to taste. When thoroughly mixed 
slice 2 eggs over top and set on ice at least a half hour before 
serving. Matie Hills. 

62 



SLAW. 

One small head cabbage, chopped fine; place in bowl, and salt. 
Dressing: One beaten egg; 1 tablespoon sugar; Y$ teaspoon mustard; 
1 tablespoon flour; butter size of an egg. Beat all together; add cup 
vinegar and let it come to a boil, and pour while hot over the slaw. 
Serve on lettuce leaves. Mrs. Adrienne Howell. 

HOT SLAW. 

Two quarts cabbage, cut fine; sprinkle lightly with salt; stew gen- 
tly until tender. Dressing: 2 pounds sugar; a pinch of mustard; a 
dash cayenne pepper; 3 tablespoons vinegar; 1 egg. Beat all to- 
gether and pour over hot cabbage and cook carefully until dressing 
bubbles. Remove from fire, add 3 tablespoons butter and serve at 
once. Mrs. B. F. Whipps. 

SLAW. 

Shred cabbage with shredder. Put in dish, season with salt and 
pour over vinegar dressing made as follows: If vinegar is strong 
take equal parts of vinegar and water (^2 a cup of each) and 2 table- 
spoons sugar. Sprinkle with paprika, after dressing has been poured 
over slaw. Mrs. W. H. Tremaine. 



63 




Service 



' Hilltop 1176 



The NA^ elsDacn Co. 



Specialize in Artistic Lighting Fixtures 
Straight Gas or Combination. An 
Especially Attractive Display of Tatle 
Lamps. Please come in and see them. 

116 East Chestnut 



Mrs. Jesse L. Bright 



Charles L. Brownlee 




right fe? Brownlee 

Fire Insurance 

Eight East Broad Street 
Citizen 3307 _ Bell Main 6864 

Furnas Ice Cream 

The Most Delicious Ice Cream 
for Any Occasion. 

Order an Order. 



Salad Dressings 



FRENCH DRESSING. 



Put Y* teaspoon salt, ^ teaspoon paprika, in a small bowl; add 
4 tablespoons olive oil slowly, stirring constantly; add 2 tablespoons 
lemon juice, drop by drop; continue beating until all is used; chill. 
'Just before serving beat again - thoroughly. Mrs. Wm. C. Adams. 

DRESSING FOR APPLE SALAD. 

Two tablespoonfuls sugar; 4 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice; 1 cup 
of cream; 1 egg, well beaten. Warm cream and sugar together, pour 
over egg; add lemon juice last. Mrs. Edward Fiedler. 

HONEY SALAD DRESSING. 

Beat together 3 tablespoonfuls of olive oil, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
honey, 1 tablespoonful of lemon juice and a few grains of salt. Use 
at once. Mrs. Lee. 

DRESSING FOR SLAW. 

Yolks of 3 eggs; 2 teaspoons sugar (more if desired); y tea- 
spoon mustard; Y* cup vinegar (scant); y-2 cup cream (sweet or 
sour); butter size of egg. Cook until thick. Fine. Mrs. Paul 
Springer. 

V HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

Two tablespoons butter; 2 tablespoons flour; lemon juice, 1 
lemon; 1^ cups milk; salt; yolks of 2 eggs; 2 tablespoons grated 
horseradish. Blend butter and flour, add milk; stir until boiling; 
season with salt and pepper just before serving and add yolks and 
horseradish. Mrs. Jaeger. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. ~ 

One teaspoon mustard; 1 teaspoon salt; 1 teaspoon powdered 
sugar; few grains cayenne; yolks 2 eggs; 2 tablespoons lemon juice; 
2 tablespoons vinegar; 1^ cups olive oil. Mix dry ingredients; add 
egg yolks, and when well mixed add ^ teaspoon vinegar; add oil 
gradually, at first drop by drop, and stir constantly; as the mixture 
thickens, thin with vinegar or lemon juice; add oil, and vinegar or 
lemon juice alternately, until all is used, stirring or beating con- 
stantly. Keep in a cool place. Sina Cochran, Kirksville, Mo. 

OLIVE OIL DRESSING. 

One egg yolk; 1 tablespoon of cold water; 2 tablespoons of 
lemon juice. Season with salt, red pepper and mustard. Add olive 
oil and beat with an egg beater until stiff. Mrs. J. H. Nau. 

65 



MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Four eggs, yolks; 1 cup sugar; ^ cup vinegar; ^2 cup sour cream; 
1 tablespoon flour; 1 teaspoon mustard; few grains of cayenne; few 
grains of salt. This makes 1 pint. You can use two whole eggs in 
preference to the yolks of 4 and it will be just as smooth. Mrs. 
Harry Walcutt. 

OIL DRESSING. 

Beat up carefully yellows of 5 eggs; add Wesson's Snowdrift 
oil or olive oil, drop at a time, beating rapidly. When dressing com- 
mences to thicken, add larger quantities of oil. Flavor with lemon, 
salt, paprika and horseradish. Mrs. Margaret Parry Hast. 1 

ROQUEFORT CHEESE DRESSING. 

One-quarter cup Roquefort cheese; y$ cup olive oil; 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegar; */ 2 teaspoonful of salt; ^ teaspoonful of pepper; 
paprika. Beat cheese until creamy, gradually working in oil, season- 
ings, and lastly the vinegar. Serve at once. Mrs. John D. Coss. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Two eggs; 3 tablespoons flour; 3 tablespoons sugar; 1 tablespoon 
salt; 1 tablespoon mustard; 1 cup sour milk; 1 cup weak vinegar; 
add whites of eggs after it starts to thicken. Mrs. E. P. Gerhold. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Into 1 tablespoon melted butter stir 2 well beaten eggs and 
juice of 1 lemon; cook until thick. Thin with cream and season with 
salt and white pepper. Mrs. J. Van R. Gardner. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Take % teaspoonful of salt, Y-2. cup of sugar; 1 heaping table- 
spoonful of flour; yolks of 2 eggs, beat thoroughly; add 1 pint of 
sweet milk; cook in a double boiler until thick; add butter the size 
of an egg and thin with vinegar to the desired consistency and 
taste. If used for vegetable salad, add pepper and mustard to suit.* 
Mrs. W. T. Eaton. 

MAYONNAISE. 

Beat 1 egg, adding 4 tablespoonfuls of mild vinegar; 2 teaspoons 
sugar; ( l / 2 teaspoonful of mustard, if desired). Stir over the fire 
until it thickens, beating constantly; add salt and tablespoonful of 
butter. Beat until cold. Emily Wilkinson. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Yolks of 2 eggs; % cup vinegar; ^ cup water; 1 tablespoon mus- 
tard; 1 teaspoon salt; Yz teaspoon white pepper; 1 tablespoon flour; 
boil until thickens. Tested. C. B. 

66 



Soups 



"Now good digestion wait on appetite, and health on both." 

CREAMED CELERY SOUP. 

Cut fine the outer stalks of celery to make a pint; let cook till 
tender, then press through a fine sieve; there should be a pint of 
liquid and pulp. Scald 3 cups of milk with 2 slices of onion; melt 
}4 cup of flour and 1 teaspoon of salt, also pepper if desired; add the 
celery; cook and stir until the boiling point; strain in the scalded 
milk and serve at once. Mrs. M. B. Bartlett. 

CORN CHOWDER. 

Fry out slowly the fat from 2 slices of bacon and remove meat; 
add 1 medium sized onion sliced, being careful not to burn; 2 me- 
dium potatoes and 2 cups of water; ^ cup celery, cut fine, with salt 
and pepper to taste, cooking potatoes until very tender so they can 
be mashed with a spoon; add */2 can of corn, 1 tablespoon butter and 
about 1 pint of milk; allow to come to the boiling point and serve. 
Blanche Gray Newhouse. 

CELERY SOUP. 

One shank of beef; 1 large bunch celery; 1 cup cream; a little 
flour. Make a rich broth of the meat. Skim off all the fat as it 
rises. When ready take up the meat and thicken broth with 1 or 2 
spoons flour smothered in a little cold water. Have the. celery cut 
fine and boil it in the soup till tender; then add the cream, salt and 
pepper to taste and serve hot. Mrs. A. R. Markle. 

LENTIL SOUP. 

Make clear stock with soup bone. Boil lentils in clear water 
till tender; then drain off water. Brown flour and butter in skillet, 
add lentils and let cook for a while; then pour in the meat broth 
and let come to a boil. Mrs. Louise Frankenberg. 

NOODLE SOUP. 

Two pounds brisket; boil two hours; then add salt and pepper, 1 
large onion, ^ can tomatoes; boil until meat is tender; strain the 
broth; 3 eggs, flour and salt to make a stiff dough; roll very thin, 
dry, fold and cut very thin; use 1 gallon of boiling broth and grad- 
ually drop in noodles; boil 20 minutes. Mrs. J. Woehrle. 

PEA SOUP. 

One can peas, mashed and strained; add milk and cream to thin; 
season to taste; use a little sugar. Serve with 1 spoon whipped 
cream and parsley leaf. Mrs. J. H. Nau. 

67 



POTATO SOUP. 

Three potatoes, cut in cubes; 1 onion and stalk celery (includ- 
ing top); put through meat grinder; brown 3 tablespoons flour in 1 
tablespoon lard, adding water to make a gravy. Add this to cooked 
vegetables; also 1 tablespoon butter and 3 slices bread, cut into cubes 
and fry crisp in butter. Mrs. Chas. Bryson. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Slice thinly enough potatoes to make 1 pint, with 1 or more 
small onions, and boil in 1 quart of water until perfectly tender; 
add 1 pint milk and season with salt, pepper and a little celery salt. 
Serve hot. I usually rub potatoes smooth through colander, but it 
is not necessary. Tested. L. M. 

TOMATO BOUILLON. i 

One gallon stock from nice fresh beef; 2 quarts tomato juice; 
make a paste of butter and flour and add to stock and boil up; dash 
cayenne, 2 teaspoons onion juice, and bay leaf. Soup must not be 
thick. Tested. 

TOMATO BISQUE SOUP. 

One can tomatoes, 3 onions, sliced and simmered together for 
an hour; strain equal parts milk and tomato; salt, cayenne pepper 
to taste. Heat both tomato and milk. Add a pinch of soda to the 
hot tomato juice, then the hot milk, and to both add 1 tablespoon 
flour which has been previously blended into 1 tablespoon butter. 
Put back on stove and let boil up once. If tomatoes are very acid, 
the pinch of soda has to be a bit larger. Adding a cup of cream 
before serving improves this soup. Tested. 



68 



Vegetables 



"Take the goods the gods provide." 

ASPARAGUS CREAMED. 

Wash and cut in 1 inch pieces the asparagus top; do not use the 
woody part. Cook until tender, 15 to 30 minutes. Season with salt, 
cayenne and butter, blended with flour. Serve on buttered toast, in 
pattie shells or over an omelet. 

BAKED CORN. 

Two cups of grated green sweet corn; 2 cups of sweet milk, and 3 
well beaten eggs. Stir all together and season with pepper, salt and 
a tablespoon of melted butter. Put into an earthen baking dish, in 
a moderately hot oven. Bake a golden brown. Mrs. Rains. 

BAKED BEANS. 

Wash 2 pounds little soup beans and place on fire, with 2 quarts 
water and 1 teaspoon soda; let come to a boil; rinse and drain and 
pour in bean pot or 1 gallon crock into which has been placed 1 
tablespoon dry mustard, 2 tablespoons best Orleans molasses, 1 table- 
spoon granulated sugar and 1 pound pickled pork. Cover with water 
and bake at least 6 hours; more is better. A little salt may be needed. 
You can also add 1 pint of tomato pulp if you wish. These are 
real Boston baked beans. Mrs. Irving, Boston, Mass. 

BAKED BEANS. 

One quart beans, boiled one hour; 1 pound pickled pork; 1 onion; 
1 cup ketchup; large tablespoon of mustard; 3 tablespoons of sugar; 
salt and pepper to taste; ^ pound fresh pork; grind meat and onion. 
Bake four hours in slow oven. Mrs. Hoepfner. 

BAKED MACARONI. ^ 

Boil the macaroni in salt water until tender. Mix with 1 pint 
milk; 2 tablespoons flour; 2 tablespoons butter; 1 cup grated cheese. 
Put into baking dish, cover with bread crumbs, and bake until 
brown. Miss Fay S. Ustic. 

CREAMED CARROTS AND TURNIPS. 

Scrape and take out the core; then cut in small strips and boil 
until tender. Drain off water, put in salt, pepper, a sprinkle of sugar, 
and a rather large piece of butter, and let them simmer a while; 
then sprinkle flour over the top and stir thoroughly. Add enough 
milk to make sauce and let boil five or 10 minutes. Turnips are 
peeled and cut into cubes, then cooked in the same way. Mrs. Louise 
Frankenberg. 

69 



CREAMED PARSNIPS. 

Peel and cut parsnips lengthways through the center. Take out 
core and cut in pieces size of walnut ,and cook till tender. Drain 
off water, season with butter, salt and pepper. Thicken very slightly 
with flour and add milk for sauce. Let boil five or 10 minutes. 
Mrs. Hugo Frankenberg. 



CREAMED RICE.#_ (^ 



Boil y^ cup of rice 10 minutes; drain; then boil rice in 1 pint of 
rich milk until the milk is all absorbed, then remove from fire. 
When cold add 1 pint of whipped cream; 2 tablespoons dissolved 
gelatin; 4 tablespoons sugar; stir together and flavor with vanilla or 
nutmeg. Serve very cold. This will serve 10 people. Blanched al- 
monds and candied cherries improve it. Mrs. John Elmer Jones. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Cook cauliflower in salt water; x then drain; make cheese dressing 
by melting sharp cheese in thin white sauce. Excellent. M. L. S. 

CREAMED OYSTER PLANT. 

Scrape the oyster plant and cut into small slices; then boil until 
tender. Drain off the water, put in salt, pepper and a rather large 
piece of butter, and let simmer for a while; then sprinkle flour over 
the top and stir thoroughly. Add enough milk to make sauce and 
let boil five or 10 minutes. Mrs. Louise Frankenberg. 

ESCALLOPED CORN. 

To either fresh or canned corn add salt, pepper and butter; place 
alternately a layer of corn and cracker crumbs in bake dish; mix 2 
well beaten eggs with milk en'ough to fill the dish and pour over and 
bake about 30 minutes, or until done. Mrs. Harry Waldo. 

FRENCH PEAS. 

Put fresh peas in vessel; add salt, a large piece of butter, and 
just enough water to cover bottom of the vessel; wash lettuce leaves 
and put in also a small onion. Set on a slow fire until thoroughly 
steamed. Margaret Parry Hast. 

FRIED PARSNIPS. 

Scrape and cut parsnips lengthways through center; take out 
core, put in skillet, cover with hot water; add salt, pepper, sugar 
and butter. Let water boil off when parsnips are tender and brown 
them slightly. Mrs. Louise Frankenberg. 

FRIED EGG PLANT. < 

Pare egg, cut |/2 inch thick; place in salt water three hours; then 
drain, dip in butter and cracker crumbs, fry. After frying use as 
escalloped oysters. M. L. S. 

70 



r 



GREEN CORN PUDDING. 



Grate the corn from 6 ears, or use 1 can; mix with it ^ pint 
sweet milk; 1 tablespoon flour; 1 tablespoon butter; a little salt; 2 
eggs, well beaten; sugar to taste. Bake until it rises in an oval in 
the middle. Mrs. Fred Nesbitt. 

GREEN STRING BEANS ORIENTAL. 

String and cut lengthwise ^ peck green beans; cook in salt 
water until done. Cut 4 onions fine and fry in butter; season with 
salt, pepper and 2 tomatoes, either fresh or canned; add to beans 
and cook about 10 minutes. Make a nest in center of beans and 
pour in 1 well beaten egg; after the egg is cooked stir it through 
the beans. Mrs. Stephen Stepanian. 

ITALIAN SPAGHETTI. 

Spaghetti, small package; 1 small sweet pepper; 1 small onion; 
2 pork chops; y^ can tomatoes; Y^ pound cheese; a little cayenne 
pepper. Cut up pork chops in small pieces, also sweet pepper and 
onion, and fry in butter a light brown. Cook tomatoes 10 minutes, 
let cool; put cheese and ingredients all together and pour over cooked 
spaghetti and bake 25 minutes. Mrs. Hoepfner. 

LUNCHEON POTATOES. 

Two 'cups cold meat; 4 potatoes, either cold boiled or raw; 2 
tomatoes; butter, pepper and salt to taste. Put the meat and pota- 
toes into a buttered baking dish in alternate layers, with butter, 
pepper and salt to taste. Slice the tomatoes on top of this and cover 
with buttered crumbs. Add a little hot water and bake one hour. 
Mrs. Livingston. 

MEXICAN MACARONI. 

Break a 10-cent package of macaroni or spaghetti into 1 quart of 
boiling salted water; boil 15 minutes and add a small, finely chopped 
chili pepper, from which all the seeds have been carefully removed; 
cook until done. Place 1 tablespoon of lard and 2 of butter in a 
frying pan; into this cook 3 tomatoes and 2 onions, finely cut. Do 
not fry. If the tomatoes are not sufficiently juicy, add more butter 
and a little water. When thoroughly done, pour over macaroni, 
place over slow fire until stirred through thoroughly, and serve. 
Spanish paprika may be used instead of pepper. Matie Hills. 

POTATOES WITH PARSLEY AND CHIVES. 

Six good sized potatoes, chopped fine; 2 tablespoons butter; Y* 
teaspoon salt. Chop raw potatoes quickly or they will discolor. 
Mix with salt and put in baking pan; pour melted butter over the 
top. Cover and set pan in another pan of hot water and bake three- 
quarters of an hour in a moderate oven; remove cover and pan of 
water when half done and finish in a quick oven. Dash the top with 
chopped parsley and chives. Mrs. W. E. Baker. 

71 



For Locations in Grandview see 

The Ohio Realty & Construction 
Company 

Eight East Broad Street, Suite 1006 
Citizens Phone 9716 Bell Main 5716 



Q"^ Pays Handsomely It is the 

^^ ^| only solid foundation upon 

\loLJLit ^/ which * buil(l a bu s inefl s- 

^ The customers you get by 

Service and Quality are bonds for you tbey are one of the assets of 
your business. 

American Laundry 

Citz. 6874. 577-583 North Fourtt St. Bell M. 2851 

> e also do Dry Cleaning. 

IliE ' Eat ' : i|i||| 

"Butter Krust" 

Bread 



c. 



Citizens I f FT" Bel1 Hilltop 

6153 A^^JL.-* 1868 

Good Service 



POTATO SNOW." 

Take thoroughly mashed potatoes, beat in yellows of eggs, cover 
with bread crumbs and bake in oven until brown. Delicious with 
roast meat. Margaret Parry Hast. 

^ POTATOES AU GRAUTIN. 

Fix as for escalloped potatoes, except use grated cheese between 
and oh top. Can be made of cooked potatoes by using a layer of 
thin white sauce, too. 

STUFFED POTATOES. 

Bake good sized potatoes; cut in to remove from shell; mash 
fine; season; fill shell; use slice cheese, bacon or beaten white egg 
on top; return to oven and brown. M. L. S. 

f SPANISH RICE. 

Cut up 3 or 4 slices of bacon and fry; 1 green pepper; 1 cup of 
tomatoes; 1 onion; 1 cup of rice, cooked; season to taste with salt, 
pepper and butter. Let simmer for 20 minutes. Mrs. F. B. Allen. 

SALMON CONES AND CREAM PEAS. 

One and three-fourths cupfuls salmon; season with salt, cayenne 
and 2 teaspoons lemon juice and add 1 cupful thick white sauce; 
shape in cones, dip in egg and cracker crumbs, fry in deep fat and 
drain on brown paper. Arrange around cream peas garnished with 
parsley. 

White Sauce. Melt 2^4 tablespoonfuls butter; add % cupful 
corn starch; stir until blended; pour on gradually one cup milk; 
raise to boiling point and season. Mrs. O. C. Weist. 

STUFFED CABBAGE. - 

One solid head cabbage; 1 pound hamburg steak; 2 slices salt 
pork, chopped; /I cup bread crumbs; milk or stock; 1 egg; ^ tea- 
spoon mace; 1 teaspoon salt; ^ teaspoon pepper. Select a well- 
shaped head of cabbage, weighing about 3 pounds. Cut a slice off 
the top, and hollow out the cabbage as much as possible, using a 
knife and spoon. Make a stuffing of the other ingredients, moisten- 
ing the crumbs with the milk or stock, and season thoroughly. 
Freshen cabbage in .salted water for 30 minutes, drain and fill three- 
fourths with stuffing. Dust with salt, tie in a cloth and steam two 
hours, or until tender. Serve with tomato sauce. Mrs. J. H. Nau. 

STUFFED ONIONS. 

Take medium size; remove skin, let stand in salt water one hour; 
scoop out middle; fill with hamburger, then bake in pan placed in 
pan of water. M. R. 

73 



TURKISH PILAP. 

Two cups washed rice; 4 cups chicken or lamb stock; small bunch 
of parsley, chopped. Fry 3 onions in oil or butter until thoroughly 
pink, season with salt and pepper and dash of cinnamon. Mix this 
with rice and add stock and cook rapidly until rice is almost dry. 
Then place in oven until each grain is a separate flake and all stock 
absorbed. Mrs. Stephen Stepanian. 

TURNIPS WITH PORK. 

Boil piece of pork one hour; then put in turnips which have been 
pealed and cut into cubes and let cook another hour. Allow water 
to boil down to rich gravy and season with salt and pepper. Mrs. 
Louise Frankenberg. 



74 



Casserole and Chafing Dishes 



BEEFSTEAK EN CASSEROLE. __ 

Use 2 pounds of round steak cut from 1 inch to \ l / 2 inches thick. 
The steak may be left whole or cut into pieces two inches square. 
Heat an iron frying pan, rub over the surface with a bit of fat from 
the meat, put in the steak, and cook, first on one side and then on 
the other, to harden the meat on the outside and thus keep in the 
juices; put the meat into the casserole; put in also \ l /2 dozen pieces 
each of carrot and turnip. The vegetables may be cut in smaller 
slices, cubes or triangles, or they may be cut into balls with a 
French cutter; add also abouf 1 dozen very small onions, nicely 
peeled; 1 tablespoon of kitchen bouquet, and a generous pint of 
brown stock or boiling water. Cover, and let cook very gently in 
the oven for an hour and a half. After cooking an hour, add salt 
and more broth if needed. Serve from the casserole. The vege- 
tables may be browned in *4 cup of drippings before being put into 
the casserole. For this style of cooking round steak gives a richer 
dish than does a sirloin steak, and should be selected when the cook- 
ing is to be done in the casserole. Mrs. H. W. Lentz. 

CASSEROLE. 

Lay slice of ham 2 inches thick in warm water for one hour; at 
end /of this time place ham in casserole or baking dish, cover with 
potatoes as for escalloped potatoes, pouring milk over all. Bake one 
hour covered and one hour uncovered. Mrs. Chas. Bryson. 

SMOTHERED PORK CHOPS. 

Roll as many pork chops as desired in flour, fry brown in skil- 
let; then lay in roaster and cover with sliced raw potatoes; salt and 
pepper to taste. Bake \Y-z hours in a moderate oven. Mrs. Wil- 
loughby. 

HUNGARIAN GOULASCH. 

Slice a peeled onion and cook it until brown in 3 tablespoonfuls 
of fat fried out of salt pork; take out the onion and turn in \ l /2 
pounds of lean, uncooked veal cut in inch cubes; stir and cook the 
meat until slightly browned, then rejecting the fat, if there be any 
in the pan, dispose the meat in the casserole; add about a pint of 
broth, or boiling water, and a teaspoonful of paprika, cover the dish 
and set to cook in the oven. In the meantime add more fat to the 
frying pan, and when hot, brown in about a dozen balls cut from 
pared potatoes, and a dozen small onions; when the onions are well 
browned, add them to the casserole, and after the meat has been 
cooking an hour, add a teaspoonful of salt and the potatoes, and, if 
desired, two tablespoonfuls of flour mixed to a thin paste with cold 
water. Let cook in all about two hours. Serve from the casserole. 
Mrs. Lentz. 

75 



CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE. 

Flour chicken heavy and brown in butter and lard, as you would 
a young chicken. Place in casserole, season, use the fat left from 
browning, and pour on milk or water, as preferred. Place casserole 
in pan of hot water in oven and bake until tender, using more liquid 
if necessary. Serve in the casserole. Mrs. P. S. Skeele. 

ROUND STEAK EN CASSEROLE. 

Two pounds of round steak (cut thick), with as much flour 
pounded into it as it will hold. Brown in hot fat in skillet. Remove 
and make gravy. Put steak in greased casserole season and cover 
with gravy. Bake in moderate oven one and a half hours. Potatoes 
ntay be cooked in casserole with meat if desired. Mrs. W. H. Tre- 
maine. 

POTATOES EN CASSEROLE. 

Melt 54 cup of butter in frying pan. Have ready 1 quart of balls 
cut from pared potatoes washed in cold water and dried in a cloth. 
Turn into hot fat and add a teaspoon of salt and a grated onion. 
Shake the frying pan over a brisk fire to brown the potatoes; then 
add brown stock or boiling water to cover potatoes; then heat the 
whole to the boiling point; add a tablespoon of chopped parsley and 
turn into casserole, cover close and let cook in a moderate oven 40 
minutes. Mrs. Malcolm Bartlett. 

SPAGHETTI AND MUSHROOMS EN CASSEROLE. 

Cook 1 pound of spaghetti in salted water until tender, and drain. 
Cleanse thoroughly 1 quart of fresh mushrooms and chop finely. 
Butter the baking dish and, starting with spaghetti, put alternate 
layers, flavoring each layer of mushrooms with salt and pepper, fin- 
ishing with a layer of spaghetti. Over this pour a cup of veal or 
beef stock. Bring to a boil 1 quart of milk, to which has been added 
a generous lump of butter. Pour over all and cover casserole. Bake 
one-half hour. Mrs. J. F. Martter. 

SWEET POTATOES EN CASSEROLE. 

Pare potatoes of same size and cut in halves lengthwise; cover 
with boiling salted water; let boil five minutes then drain. Melt ^4 
of a cup of butter in a casserole, put in a layer of potatoes, and 
sprinkle thick with maple or brown sugar; add another layer of po- 
tatoes, dot with bits of butter and sprinkle with sugar and salt; 
cover dish and cook in moderate oven. After 20 minutes remove 
cover; then add, if potatoes seem dry, a little butter and sugar 
melted in hot water. Let cook 10 minutes longer without cover. 
Mrs. Malcolm Bartlett. 

EGG VERMICELLI. 

Add the chopped whites of 6 hard boiled eggs to 1 pint of well 
seasoned white sauce. Pour over crisp, well buttered toast squares. 
Put the yolks through a ricer as a garnish for the top. Mrs. J. B. 
Young. 

76 



CARACAS EGGS. 

One teaspoon butter; J4 cup mustard; 1 pound cheese; 2 cups 
chipped beef; 1 large cup tomato juice; 2 eggs; salt, pepper and 
paprika. Melt butter in chafing dish; add salt, pepper, mustard and 
paprika; then cheese cut in small pieces, and melt; add tomato juice 
and chipped beef; then more seasoning if desired. Worcestershire or 
tobasco sauce may be added. Lastly stir in the eggs, well beaten. 
As soon as they are set, serve as a rarebit. Mrs. Edith B. Schofield. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWjBURG. 

One large lobster; 1 tablespoon butter; 3 eggs; ^ pint cream; 
pepper and salt; 1 gill of milk. Cut the choicest parts into small 
pieces. Put them and the butter in chafing dish; season well with 
salt and pepper; pour on the milk and cook 10 minutes; add the 
beaten eggs and cream. Let all come to a boil and serve immedi- 
ately. Mrs. J. B. Pinney. 

OYSTER PATTIES. =- 

Wash 1 quart oysters; heat and remove the beard (small round 
gristle); chop a little, put back in double boiler or chafing dish with 
little water or cream, and cook a while. Rub 1 tablespoon flour with 
\y-2. tablespoons butter, add salt, pepper and dash of nutmeg; add 
this to the oysters and cook well, so as to cook the flour. Just be- 
fore serving add cream, or whipped cream is better. Mrs. Thos. 
Skinner. 

RINGTUM DIDDY. 

Melt 1 teaspoon butter in chafing dish; add 1 pound New York 
cream cheese in bits; melt. To a lOc can Campbell's tomato soup 
add salt, cayenne pepper and Worcestershire sauce to suit taste; 2 
eggs beaten separately; add this to the melted cheese and let boil up. 
Serve on bread toasted on one side or with wafers. Mrs. C. W. 
Thompson. 



Dainties, Candies and Christmas 
Cakes 



At Christmas play, and make good cheer, 
For Christmas comes but once a year. 

CHEESE AND OLIVE SANDWICHES. 

Rub 1 roll of Neufchatel to a paste; add half the measure of 
finely chopped stuffed olives; moisten with salad dressing and spread 
between white or graham bread. Mrs. W. C. Adams. 

CHEESE BALLS. 

Half pound grated cheese; 2 cups soft bread crumbs; 2 eggs, well 
beaten; butter size of walnut. Roll balls in bread crumbs and fry 
in butter. Mrs. Harry Beech. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

Mix together 3 heaping tablespoons of sifted flour; 3 tablespoons 
of grated cheese; J/2 teaspoon salt; ^ teaspoon white pepper; ^ tea- 
spoon cayenne pepper; 1 tablespoon butter; 1 tablespoon milk; yolk 
of 1 egg. Mix well with spoon; when smooth divide into two parts, 
roll very thin, cut in narrow strips 3 inches long; bake in slow oven 
15 minutes. Serve hot' or cold. Dorothy Wilkinson. 

FRIED CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Cut bread thin; place layer of cheese between slices of bread; 
have skillet hot. Put in butter and fry on one side until a golden 
brown; turn and cover closely; let brown slowly on other side until 
cheese is melted. Serve immediately. Mrs. Fred Schmitt. 

>C HERMITS. 

One and one-half cups brown sugar; %y 2 cups flour; 1 cup butter; 
1 teaspoon soda; pinch salt; 1 teaspoon cinnamon; 1 cup nuts; 1 
pound raisins. Drop y? teaspoon in pan greased with lard dusted 
with flour. Dorothy Wilkinson. 

MERINGUE SHELLS. 

Whites of 4 eggs, beaten very stiff; add 1 level cup granulated 
sugar; 1 teaspoon vanilla. Drop on buttered paper on cake tins and 
bake slowly. This makes 10 shells as large as a small saucer. Crush 
the bottom to form a cup and fill with either frozen cream or 
whipped cream. Marie Louise Baer. 

78 



MARGUERITES. 

Stir raisins and nuts into cooked icing, spreading on reception 
wafers. Cook in oven until light brown. E. W. 

NUT AND FRUIT CHEESE. 

One-half pound each of figs, raisins, dates, pecan nuts and pine 
nuts; J4 pound each of Brazil and almond nut meats. Put through 
a meat chopper, after preparing the ingredients, first a little fruit, 
then mixed nuts, alternating until all are ground. Pack in small 
tins and when wanted for use, loosen and slice thin with a sharp 
thin knife. Fine for sandwiches and will keep indefinitely in a re- 
frigerator. Mrs. Wi E. Baker. 

OLIVE SANDWICHES. 

Chop stuffed olives, not too fine; mix with olive oil dressing or 
cooked mayonnaise; spread on buttered bread. D. W. 

PEACH ICE CREAM. 

One cup sugar; 1 cup milk; 1 egg; 1 scant spoon flour; cook in 
custard; mash 10 peaches, sweeten to taste, add 1 quart cream; 
freeze. C. W. 

SALTED ALMONDS. 

Put 1 tablespoon butter and lard, mixed in skillet; heat very hot; 
add 1 pint blanched almonds; stir constantly until nearly done. Re- 
move from fire when light brown as they cook somewhat in cooling. 
All nuts are good salted. Tested. L. H. 

SHERBET. 

Three oranges; 3 lemons; 3 peaches; 3 cups sugar; 3 cups water; 
boil water and sugar five minutes; mix peach and orange pulp; 
freeze. C. .W. 

CREAM CANDY. 

Three cups coffee A sugar; 1 cup milk; butter size of a walnut. 
Cook until forms into a soft ball when dropped in cold water. Stir 
while cooking to keep from curdling. Put pan in cold water until 
candy is partly cool. Beat until creamed, adding raisins and nuts; 
mold into pan and cut in squares. Emily Wilkinson. 

COCOANUT KISSES. 

One and one-half pounds sugar; 1 fresh grated cocoanut. Dissolve 
sugar in water, let come to boil, and add cocoanut. When it is 
stringy between thumb and finger it is cooked enough. Set off the 
fire and add ^ pound fondant; stir constantly until the batch is 
all creamy looking and thickens up; flavor with vanilla. Drop from 
a silver fork on waxed paper. 

79 



SOLD BY ALL GROCERS 



ONE POUND 



JJNCYDRYROASTED <rtf \ 

COFFEE CO 2 



SAVE THE COUPONS 



THE 
POPULARITY 

OKAY 

COFFEE 



IS ITS BEST 
RECOMMEN- 
DATION 



THE FRANKLIN 
COFFEE CO. 

Right Here At Home 



GRANDVIEW 
MARKET 



G. F. GUTCHES, PROP. 



FOR 



EVERYTHING 
GOOD TO EAT 



BUTTER CREAMS. 

Work into 1 pound fondant 54 scant pound of butter creamed; 
flavor to suit taste. Chocolate may be added if you wish. Mrs. F. 

B. Smith. 

CARAMELS. 

Two pounds sugar; \y 2 pounds glucose; 3 pints cream. Put 
sugar, glucose and 1 pint cream on to cook; stir constantly; cook 
until it will form a soft ball in cold water; add second pint cream, 
cook to soft ball again; add third pint cream and parafine wax size 
walnut; cook to good firm ball when dropped in cold water; stir all 
over the bottom of kettle when cooking lest it sticks and burns. 
In cold weather it is not necessary to add the wax.. Add vanilla. 
Pour on platter or marble slab with the bars. If you wish chocolate 
caramels add grated chocolate when nearly done. Mrs. C. K. Seibert. 

CHOCOLATE ALMONDS. 

Blanch almonds; roast in oven; cool. Use a sweet chocolate in 
coating. Work and melt chocolate; put several in, roll around and 
lift out with a pair of tweezers. 

DIVINITY. - 

Two cups granulated sugar; J^ cup water; ^ cup Karo syrup; 
1 cup nut meats; vanilla. Cook syrup of sugar, water and Karo until 
it is a soft ball; pour over the beaten whites 2 eggs; beat until cold; 
add nut meats and drop on buttered plates or waxed paper. Mrs. 
J. B. Pinney. 

FONDANT. 

Two cups granulated sugar; milk enough to dissolve; stir until 
dissolved before candy boils; cook until candy forms into soft ball 
when dropped in cold water; allow candy to get cold before beating; 
beat until creamed, then knead well; form into any shape. E. D. 

C. W. 

KARO SEA FOAM. 

Two cups granulated sugar; ^ cup of dark Karo corn syrup; l / 2 
cup water. Boil the sugar, syrup and water until it forms a soft 
ball when tried in cold water. Have ready the beaten whites of 2 
eggs, and pour the syrup into them slowly. Beat until stiff; pour 
into a buttered pan and mark in squares when cold. Mrs. Harry 
Karns. 

ICE CREAM TAFFY. 

Two pounds sugar; 1 pound glucose; 1 pint milk or cream; par- 
afine wax, size of walnut; 1 tablespoon butter. Dissolve; put on 
stove and boil all at once, stirring constantly until done. If you use 
thermometer, cook to 256 or 258. Pour on slab or platter and pull 
when cool. Mrs. C. K. Seibert. 

81 



GLACE NUT AND FRUITS. 

One pound granulated sugar; 1 small tablespoon glucose; pour 
over it enough water to dissolve; wash down sides; let cook until 
it just starts to turn straw color, but do not allow it to discolor any. 
Place pan and all in kettle of hot water. Drop nuts or fruit in a 
few at a timje and -remove with tweezers and drop on a tin pan, as 
they will not stick to tin. Be very careful not to disturb the syrup 
more than absolutely necessary. As soon as the syrup begins to get 
cloudy you must stop dipping, and the syrup can be thinned and 
used as table syrup. Mrs. C. K. Seibert. 

MAPLE FUDGE. 

Use soft white sugar and maple syrup; wet with milk. Cook to 
a very soft ball. Add chopped nuts if you wish. Beat fast. Mrs. F. 
B. Smith. 

NUT CANDY. 

Two cups granulated sugar; 1 cup nut meats. Heat iron skillet 
till it smokes, put in sugar and stir rapidly until melted, then pour 
over nuts. Mrs. W. E. Baker. 

PEANUT BRITTLE. 

One and one-half pounds sugar; 24 pound glucose; 2 ounces 
butter; y? tablespoon vanilla; 4 pound peanuts, raw; 1 heaping tea- 
poon soda; 2 /z pint water. Put sugar, glucose and water on hot fire 
and stir until it commences to boil; wipe down the sides of pan; cook 
until thermometer reads 275; put in peanuts and cook, stirring all 
the time; cook until the peanuts are done. They will be golden 
brown in color; add soda just before pouring out. Mrs. C. K. Seibert. 

SOFT BUTTERSCOTCH. 

Two pounds sugar; 1 pound glucose; fy& pound butter; J^ pint 
best Orleans molasses; y teaspoon nutmeg; 2 /z pint water. Put 
sugar, glucose, water on fire and stir until commences boiling; wipe 
down sides. Boil up to 245, then add molasses, butter and nutmeg 
or ginger, and stir constantly, but not top hard, and cook to about 
260 by the thermometer; or test by dropping in cold water. 

ANISE CAKES. 

One pound pulverized sugar; 6 eggs; beat one hour; 1 pound 
flour; small amount anise oil. Bake in slow oven. Can make some 
pink by adding coloring. F. C. 

CINNAMON STARS. 

Whites of 8 eggs; 1 pound pulverized sugar; stir half hour; take 
out y* cup for icing. To the remainder add 1 teaspoonful cinna- 
mon; 1 lemon rind and a little of the juice; also 1 pound grated 
almonds; roll thin, cut into stars; ice and bake in slow oven. F. C. 

82 



CHOCOLATE COOKIES. 

One pound sugar; 4 eggs; J^ cup grated chocolate; 1 teaspoonful 
baking powder; flour to stiffen; make into small balls in hand. Bake 
in slow oven. F. C. 

CINNAMON BARS OR MACARONI STICKS. 

Ten ounces almond paste; 5 ounces confectioners' sugar; white 
1 gg> y* teaspoon cinnamon. Work paste, sugar and cinnamon to- 
gether; add white egg, and work until perfectly smooth; pat and roll 
y^ inch thick; have a piece 4 inches wide. Spread with frosting 
made with white 1 egg and ^ cup confectioners' sugar, beaten until 
stiff enough to spread; cut in strips 4x^4 inches. Do this quickly as 
crust forms over frosting. Place on greased and floured pan; bake 
20 minutes in slow oven. Tested. 

HAZEL NUT MACAROONS. 

Whites of 4 eggs, beaten stiff; add juice of y* lemon and ^ 
pound pulverized sugar; take out % cup of this and add to the re- 
mainder y pound grated hazel nuts and % grated almonds; mix 
well, set on buttered pans with teaspoon; make a small deepening 
in each, filling in with the icing that was kept out. Bake in slotw 
oven. Mrs. Thos. G. Constable. 

HIRCH HOERNCHEN. 

Four pounds sugar; 2 pounds almonds; 8 pounds flour; 2 ounces 
cinnamon; 1 ounce nutmeg and mace; 4 lemons; 32 eggs; ^4 pound 
butter; small glass water. Beat eggs, butter and sugar to a very 
light cream; add ground almonds and spices and flour and water. 
Cut in different shaped figures and fry in hot lard. Mrs. G. W. 
Webster. 

HICKORY NUT KISSES. 

One pound pulverized sugar; 1 pound nut meats, chopped fine; 
whites of 6 eggs, beaten stiff; 8 tablespoons flour, and pinch of baking 
powder. Drop from spoon on buttered tins and bake in rather slow 
oven. Mrs. A. Share. 

HICKORY NUT COOKIES. 

One cup sugar; 1 cup flour; 1 egg; 1 cup hickory nut kernels, 
chopped fine. Roll in small balls; bake in slow oven. F. C. 

LEBKUCHEN. 

Four eggs; 1 pound sugar; beat half hour; y 2 pound blanched, 
dried and crushed almonds; }4 pound citron; grated rinds and juice 
of 1 lemon and 1 orange; % ounce cinnamon; ^ teaspoon cloves; 1 
teaspoonful allspice; % scant teaspoonful baking powder; Yi cup 
strained honey; flour to stiffen; stir thoroughly. Roll, cut and bake 
in slow oven. Icing: Five tablespoonfuls of milk and powdered 
sugar. F. C. 

83 



SPRINGLIES. 

Four eggs; 1 pound pulverized sugar; beat one hour; 1 pound 
flour; flavor with lemon or vanilla; roll, cut and leave stand over 
night. Bake in slow oven. (Requires special roller with this.) F. C. 

PEPPERNUTS. 

Four pounds sugar; 16 eggs; y 2 pound lemon peel and citron; 2 
ounces cinnamon; 1^ scant tablespoons cloves; 1 tablespoon mace; 
1 tablespoon nutmeg; 4 pounds flour; l / 2 'pound blanched almonds. 
Beat sugar and eggs */ 2 hour. Put in citron, lemon peel and nuts 
which have been ground fine; add spices and flour. Roll on board 
one inch thick; cut with peppernut cutter and let stand over night* 
Next day place in pan soft side up and bake in very slow oven, oven 
door open until risen in centers; then close oven door until light 
brown. Mrs. G. W. Webster. 

VANILLA STICKS. 

One-half pound chopped or ground almonds; y 2 pound powdered 
sugar; whites of 2 eggs. Mix sugar well with beaten whites; keep 
out enough to ice. Mix remaining half with nuts and 1 teaspoon of 
vanilla. Put a little flour on board, roll thin, cut in strips, and ice 
before you bake. Bake to a golden brown. Mrs. Rohletter. 



Household Hints 



To prevent the shine which so often comes from pressing, use 
a woolen cloth under the pressing cloth. 

TO REMOVE SPOTS. 

Here are some simple remedies for removing spots of various 
sorts: 

Paint If the paint is fresh, turpentine, alcohol or naphtha will 
probably take out the stain. If the stain is old and dry, try chloro- 
form. Put the portion of fabric to be cleaned over several thicknesses 
of clean cloth before trying to clean it. 

Grease Use French chalk for grease spots. Apply it thickly 
and let it stand for several days. If this is not effective sponge the 
material first on one side, then on the other, with spirits of wine. 
Then press over a piece of thick linen. 

Candle Wax Put a sheet of blotting paper under the spot and 
another over it. Heat with flat iron and the wax will be removed 
by the blotting paper. 

Milk White soap and warm water should be used to take out 
milk stains. It should be used immediately. 

Ink There are various good ink eradicators on the market, and 
it is well to have a bottle of one of these on hand. Another method 
is to dip the ink-stained article into milk. The milk should not be 
allowed to dry on, but if it does not remove the ink within a short 
time it should be washed out and a fresh application of milk made. 

Tea Stains Clear warm water should be used to remove tea 
stains. 

Coffee Pour boiling water through the coffee stains as quickly 
after the coffee is spilled as possible. This is a never-failing remedy 
if the spots are fresh. Otherwise it may be necessary to repeat it 
several times. 

Rain Spots When cloth that has not been sponged is spotted 
from the rain, spread a damp cloth over the wrong side of the 
material and iron it dry. 

Ice Cream Anything on which ice cream has been spilled 
should be sponged in chloroform. Use several thicknesses of clean 
white blotting paper under the spotted article. 

Gasoline Spots Sometimes gasoline leaves a ring on cloth in 
which it has been used to remove a stain. This ring can be re- 
moved by holding the ringed cloth over steam. Sometimes this 
method does not remove the ring. The only thing to do in that case 
is to dip the whole of the garment on which the ring appears into 
gasoline. 

Grass Spots As soon as grass stains are detected on summer 
frocks cover them with molasses or with lard and the stains will 
disappear. 

85 



TO CUT THIN SILK. 

By placing thin silk between two pieces of tissue paper, you 
will find that you can cut it as straight as though it were heavy 
cloth; there will be no annoying puckering. 

RENOVATING A BED HAMMOCK. 

My bed hammock was stained and faded so that it was unfit to 
grace my porch another year. As I could not make it look worse 
by experimenting, I determined to make an attempt at renovation. 
I bought a can of walnut oil stain and mixed it with three times its 
volume of turpentine. This I applied to the canvas with a large 
brush, keeping the liquid well stirred and the brush moving rapidly 
until both sides of the canvas were covered. The experiment was a 
complete success, the color being that of a new brown khaki cloth. 
Be sure not to use the hammock until it is thoroughly dry. The 
same plan might be followed with all kinds of canvas porch chairs. 

DUSTLESS DUST CLOTHS. 

Buy black cheese cloth; cut into yard lengths. (Hem if you 
have time.) Wet the cloths thoroughly in coal oil, wring and hang 
out to dry. These may be renewed after each laundering. C. S. 

HOW TO TELL FRESH EGGS. 

If an egg is "strictly fresh" it will, when placed in a pan of 
water, lie on its side on the bottom. If stale it will stand on end, 
and if very old will rise to the surface. When just a few days old the 
egg will begin to tilt a trifle, and as it ages more and more the angle 
at which it tilts will increase. Mrs. Hammond. 

DUSTLESS CARPET SWEEPER. 

Take a piece of cloth one inch wide and twelve inches long, sat- 
urate with kerosene oil, place one in each dust box of your carpet 
sweeper, and you will have no dust. 

A USEFUL MIRROR FOR SKIRTS. 

A mirror attached to the inside of the closet door near the floor 
will be found useful in dressing or dressmaking. The glass meas- 
ures about eight by fourteen inches and rests on two curtain rod 
hooks screwed into the door about four inches from the bottom. 
The upper edge of the glass can be securely fastened by a tack. 
Much depends upon the angle at which the mirror reflects the 
longer the hooks the better results when the glass is in place. 

Use a white new blotter under a spot when cleaning with gaso- 
line and it will not leave a ring. Remove the blotter before gasoline 
evaporates. Gasoline will also take out grass stains. 

All bake dishes should be placed in a pan of hot water, then set 
in oven to bake. 

Always use sharp cheese for seasoning, as it will dissolve and 
not curdle. M. L. S. 

86 



HOW TO CORN BEEF. 

One quart water; ^ pound brown sugar; 1 pint salt; lump of 
saltpetre size of a 10-cent piece. Boil and skim. Put beef in for 10 
days or two weeks. C. E. S. 

CANNED CORN. 

Ten cups of corn; ^ cup of salt; -1 cup sugar; 2 cups water. 
Boil 20 minues and can. Five dozen ears make about seven cans. 
J. Daymude. 

RULES FOR COOKING GREEN VEGETABLES. 

The cleaning and preparation of green vegetables count for as 
much as the cooking itself. They must be properly ripened and 
fresh from the garden. Wilted vegetables, if not stale, may be re- 
stored by crisping in ice water for an hour or two. Every particle of 
sand or decayed matter should be removed. A brush for scrubbing 
saves hands and labor. Special cutters are attractive, but not neces- 
sary. 

Carrots and turnips should be diced, or cut into long, thin 
"strings." Beets are simply washed, without breaking the skin, and 
four or five inches of the green stem should be left on. They may 
be cut as desired, after cooking. When tender, cook the green tops, 
too, as you would spinach, and use for garnishing the dish. Cabbage 
should be shredded, then simmered gently for 20 minutes, without a 
cover. The success of spinach depends upon the washing, and final 
chopping and seasoning; beans, on the proper stringing and cut- 
ting, lengthwise rather than across. Peas and corn are only good 
when fresh. Peas should have a pod or two boiled in the water 
with them; corn should have the final inner husk left on. Both 
should be timed carefully; over-cooking is disastrous. About 20-30 
minutes for peas; 10-15 minutes for corn. 

1. All vegetables should be put on in boiling water. The boiling 
should continue gently until the vegetable is tender no longer. 
Rapid boiling or over-cooking spoils color, shape, flavor, making 
many vegetables tough. A cover is not necessary; it should never 
be used for onions, cauliflower or cabbage. 

2. Top-ground vegetables should be cooked in salted water. 
Underground vegetables should be salted after cooking. 

3. The very watery vegetables squash, spinach, beet-tops 
should be cooked over steam,, or in a pan with very little water. 

DIET FOR CHILD FROM 12th to 18th MONTH. 

Fruits: Given one-half hour before or one-half hour after milk: 
Orange juice, 1 ounce; pineapple juice, 1 ounce; strained apple sauce; 
mashed pulp of prunes. 

Broths: Mutton, chicken, veal or beef broth, with rice or stale 
bread crumbs, 5 ounces; beef juice, 3 ounces. 

Cereals: Gruels or cereal jellies made of either oatmeal, farina, 
barley, hominy, rice or wheatena, 4 ounces. 

Breads: Zwieback; dry toast; stale bread and butter; graham 
cracker. 

Eggs: Coddled, soft boiled or soft poached. 

Meats: Scraped rare beef, 1 tablespoonful. 

Milks: One to one quart and one-half in 24 hours. 

Feedings: Five in 24 hours. 

87 



TKe ALL RIGHT Brand 

Saratoga Chips, 1 Oc 

MANUFACTURED FOR 

D. J. Burtnett Specialty Co. 

336 West First Avenue Columbus, Ohio 



COMPLIMENTS OF 
A FRIEND 



THE COLUMBUS MACADAM CO. 
BUILDERS' SUPPLIES 

AND COAL 

C. 3339 319 DUBLIN AVENUE M. 1397 



If It's 

if it's ;r_" _" - - - 

If It's 
Dry 



/7 *J '* s 

tnotbi fc"*^ 

r^-^yi PHONK \ 



and 

Towels 
for Rent, 
Call the 



\ Dri - 1 - I 

PHONE f 



% NORTH FOURTH STREET 



Cleaning 
and 

Pressing, 
Call Us. 



DIET FOR CHILD FROM 18th MONTH TO 2 YEARS. 

Fruits: Given one-half hour before or one-half hour after milk: 
Orange juice, prune juice, pineapple juice, baked apple, apple sauce, 
scraped raw apple, stewed prunes. 

Soups: Beef, mutton, veal or chicken broth, clear vegetable soup, 
beef juice. 

Cereals: Oatmeal, cream of wheat, hominy, farina, cereal jellies. 

Breads: Zwieback, dry toast, stale bread and butter, graham 
crackers. 

Eggs: Coddled, soft boiled or soft poached. 

Meats: Scraped rare beef, heart of a lamb chop, white meat of 
chicken, minced beef. (All meats should be cut up'fine or shredded.) 

Vegetables (All vegetables mjashed - into a pulp, served warm, 
one at a time): Baked potato, spinach, asparagus tips, cauliflower, 
carrots. 

Milk: One quart in 24 hours. 

Desserts: Baked custard, plain puddings of rice, bread or tapioca, 
blanc-mange, junket corn starch. 

Feedings: Five in 24 hours. 

FOODS. 

Meats and Broths Easy to Digest Mutton, venison, hare, sweet- 
bread, chicken, turkey, beef tea, mutton broth, beef. 

Hard to Digest Pork, veal, goose, liver, heart, brain, lamb, 
duck, salt meat, sausage. 

Fish Easy to Digest Turbot r haddock, flounder, sole, roasted 
oysters, trout, pike. 

Fish Hard to Digest Mackerel, eels, salmon, herring, halibut, 
salt fish, lobster, crabs, mussels, cod. 

Vegetables Easy to Digest Asparagus, French beans, cauli- 
flower, beets, potatoes, lettuce. 

Vegetables Hard to Digest Artichoke, celery, spinach, cabbage. 

Fruits and Drinks Easy to Digest Apples, currants, raspberries, 
apricots, pears, plums, cherries, pineapples, chocolate, pickles, 

BEVERAGES FOR INVALIDS. 

Rice Water Put two tablespoons of rice in a saucepan with a 
quart of boiling water. Simmer two hours, strain and serve the rice 
water hot or cold, adding to it a good fruit juice orange juice, the 
juice of canned cherries, blackberries or strawberries, according to 
the taste. of the invalid. 

Egg Water Stir the raw white of an egg, without beating it, 
into half a pint of ice water. Add a little lemon juice and serve cold. 

Flaxseed Tea^-Use .a heaping teaspoon of whole flaxseed, one 
ounce of rock candy, one-half ounce licorice, four tablespoons lemon 
juice and one quart of boiling water. Let stand on the back of the 
stove where it is hot, but not enough to boil, for three hours. Then 
strain it. 

Barley Lemonades-Cook one-half cup pearl barley in one quart 
water slowly until it becomes thick. Strain and add two teaspoons 
lemon juice sweetened to taste and serve cold. 

89 



TIME TABLE FOR COOKING. 



BAKING. 

Bread 40 minutes 

Biscuits and Rolls 10 to 18 minutes 

Graham Gems 30 minutes 

Ginger Bread 20 to 30 minutes 

Sponge Cake 40 to 60 minutes 

Plain Cake 30 to 40 minutes 

Fruit Cake 2 to 3 hours 

Cookies 6 to 15 minutes 

Rice and Tapioca 1 hour 

Plum Pudding 2 to 3 hours 

Custards 15 to 20 minutes 

Steamed puddings 1 to 3 hours 

Potatoes 30 to 40 minutes 

Scalloped dishes 20 to 30 minutes 

Tarts 15 to 20 minutes 

Corn Cake Thin 15 to 20 minutes 

Corn Cake Thick . . 30 to 35 minutes 



MEATS. 

Broiled steak 4 to 10 minutes 

Chops 6 to 10 minutes 

Fish 15 to 20 minutes 

Roast beef, counting after first half hour, to pound. 10 minutes 

Mutton, counting after first half hour, to pound.. .. 15 minutes 
Lamb, veal and pork, counting after first half hour, 

to pound 20 minutes 

VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes, Rice, Macaroni 30 minutes 

Asparagus, Corn 10 to 20 minutes 

Brussels Sprouts, Spinach 15 to 25 minutes 

Beets Young 45 minutes 

Beets Old Forever 

Turnips, Parsnips, 30 to 60 minutes 

Cauliflower 20 to 30 minutes 

Peas, String Beans 25 to 40 minutes 

Cabbage, Onions, 35 to 60 minutes 

90 



TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

1 cup medium size ^ pt. 

1 cup butter ^ Ib. 

1 cup packed chopped meat 54 Ib. 

1 cup raisins 6 oz. 

4 cups sifted flour 1 Ib. 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 Ib. 

1 cup English currants 6 oz. 

1 cup ordinary liquid ^ Ib. 

1 tablespoon heaped flour ^ oz. 

1 tablespoonful heaped sugar . 24 oz> 

2 tablespoonfuls ordinary liquid 1 oz. 

Butter size of an egg 2 oz. 

"Who does the best his circumstances allow, does well acts nobly; 
Angels could no more." 



You Are Sure to Ask, W% f 
Was Anything Ever EJ mm 

The moment you've taken 
your first taste of 

Capital Brand 

Sausages 



Temptingly delicious. So 
good for breakfast on 
a winter morning. 

All Capital Brand 
Products are U. S. : . 
Government Pure. 



Columbus 

Packing 

Company 




91 



n Ordering Crackers 
or Cakes, Specify 

Pennant Quality 

MADE BY 

Felber Biscuit Company 

COLUMBUS, OHIO 



Compliments 
of the 



Woman's Bakery 



Milk Bread 

AND 

Bon-Bon Cakes 

The Buckeye Transfer 
| and Storage Co. 



COLUMBUS, O. 



Will Move, Pack, Store or Ship Your 
Household to Your Entire Satisfaction. 



New Recipes 



93 



94 



95 



96 



Photomount 



Inc. 



Binder 

Gaylord Bros 
MaKers 

Stockton, Calif. 
PW. IAN. 21. 1908 



