Historic, Archive Document 


Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 








I’. 8S. & P. L—2. Issued October 20, 1916. 


‘United States Department of Agriculture, 


BUREAU OF PLANT INDUSTRY, 
Ofice of Foreign Seed and Plant Introduction, 


WASHINGTON, D. C. 


RECIPES FOR THE PREPARATION OF THE DASHEEN. 


This vegetable is a staple article of food for millions of people 
in tropical and subtropical countries. In general, it is used in the 
same ways as the potato and the sweet potato. The flesh of the large 
spherical corms and of the large tubers (which are usually much 
smaller than the corms) is frequently somewhat gray or violet when 
cooked, but this does not affect the flavor. ’ 

If uncooked dasheens are scraped they should be handled in water 
to which a level tcaspoonful of sal soda to the quart has been added, 
as the juice of the outer layer of the raw dasheen contains an irritant 
that, when mixed with water, causes the hands of many persons to 
sting. This property is destroyed by cooking, the cooked dasheen be- 
ing as bland as a potato and of a pleasant nutty flavor. 

The following recipes have been suggested by various experts in 
cooking and have been put in their present form after much experi- 
mentation. They are not regarded as being necessarily the best 
possible, however, and suggestions of improvements from any one will 
be welcomed. 

BAKED DASHEENS. 


Dasheens, large or small, may be baked like potatoes in a quick oven. If not 
already thoroughly cleaned they should first be rubbed or scrubbed to remove 
the loose fiber from the skin. When practicable to do so, in using small 
dasheens it is sometimes desirable to scrape them before baking, as they are 
then more convenient for eating and the soft crust which forms around them 
when they are properly baked is particularly delicious, Rubbing these scraped 
dasheens with fat before baking will improve them, or they may be roasted 
with meat. Corms weighing 2 pounds or more may be cut in half from top to 
base in order to lessen the time needed for baking. Large corms should be 

62266—16 


~ 





parboiled for 10 to 20 minutes before baking, and may be cut in half either 
before or after the boiling. Corms recently dug will split open if boiled more than | 
about 10 minutes. The total time required for cooking is a little less than for 
potatoes of the same size. Baked dasheens should be served immediately when 
done. Season with salt and plenty of butter, and penne if desired. Gravy 
may be used in place of butter. 

The dasheen when properly baked and served is mealy, and the flavor is 
much like that of the white potato, but more or less suggestive of chestnuts. 
As the dasheen is drier than the potato it requires more butter. 


BOILED DASHEENS. 


Large dasheens (corms) are preferable for boiling, though small ones (tubers) 
may also be used. They should always be boiled in the skin and may be served 
thus or with the skins removed. Dasheens do not require quite so long boil- 
ing as potatoes of the same size. ‘ 

In the case of small tubers they are especially good if, after peeling, they 
are placed in the oven just long enough to melt over them a dressing of butter. 
‘When so prepared they can usually be kept standing in a warm place for a 
short time without becoming soggy. Instead of placing them in the oven the 
tubers may be fried slightly, either whole or in halves. 

Dasheen corms split open and become water soaked if cooked entirely by 
boiling at any time within a month after they are dug, and it is therefore 
usually better during the autumn and early winter to parboil for only 10 min- 
utes and then bake. 


RICED DASHEENS. 


Boil (or parboil and bake) the dasheens in their skins. Remove the skin 
immediately, rice the dasheen into a heated dish, and proceed in one of the 
following ways: 


(1) Stir in the desired seasoning, as butter and salt, and serve in a warm, 
COV ered dish. The butter may be omitted if gravy is to be used. 

Milk or cream may be beaten in if desired, as for mashed potato, but dasheens 
prepared in this way will be rather sticky and some will prefer to omit the 
milk or cream, or at least to use only a little. Mashing in the ordinary way 
is not recommended. 

(2) Empty in layers into a warmed serving dish, seasoning each layer and 
omitting the stirring. 

(3) Season the riced dasheen as desired and put into a baking dish, with a 
liberal quantity of butter on top. Bake for 8 or 10 minutes and serve. 

In ricing dasheens the round or plunger type of ricer rather than the trian- 
gular lever type should be used. One with wrought-iron handles is better than 


one with cast-iron handles, as the latter are too easily broken. 


STUFFED DASHEENS. 


Proceed the same as in baking, and when the dasheens are done follow the 
method used for stuffed potatoes, using more butter, however. If cream instead 
of milk is used for moistening, still better results are secured. 

The corms are especially adapted for serving in this manner; they may be 
scraped or simply scrubbed, as preferred, and unless quite small may be cut in 
half. Instead of mashing dasheens it will always be found better to rice them 
with a potato ricer or to rub them through a coarse sieve. If, after baking, 
the upper part of a corm is found to be hard, this part should be taken out 
and discarded. 


3 





SCALLOPED DASHEENS. 


| Pare and slice raw dasheens, putting the slices in layers into a buttered bak- 
ing dish, and season each layer with butter, salt, etc. Lattice-work slices, made 
with a fluted slicer, are a little more attractive in appearance than the plain 
ones, and they do not mat together. Nearly cover with rich milk and bake. 
Only about two-thirds as much time is required in cooking as for scalloping po- 
tatoes. When corms are used for scalloping it is well to discard about three- 
quarters of an inch of the upper or bud end, as it may be tough after cooking. 
On account of the firm texture of the dasheen, a slicer with the sliding guard 
made of wood rather than of tin will be necessary if a fluted slicer is used. 

This method of serving the dasheen will be found particularly well adapted 
for banquets or formal dinners, and in such cases individual baking dishes or 
casseroles should be used. 


DASHEENS AU GRATIN. 


Proceed as for scalloped dasheens, using less butter and adding grated cheese. 
Bread crumbs may also be added to the top layer. 


DASHEEN CRISPS. 


Dasheen crisps are especially recommended. They are made by cutting the 
raw dasheens into lattice-work slices, as for scalloped dasheens, or into fluted 
slices, and frying slowly to a light brown in deep fat. 


FRIED DASHEENS. 


Slice boiled dasheens, either warm or cold, season with salt, and fry quickly 
in plenty of fat. If fried too long they become dry and hard. 

French-fried dasheens are also exceedingly good. 

Boiled dasheens, while still hot, may also be mashed or put through a potato 
ricer, mixed with grated cheese, and made into cakes or croquettes and fried. 
The cheese may be omitted and the croquettes dipped in egg and cracker 
crumbs before frying. 

DASHEEN GRIDDLECAKES. 


Wxcellent griddlecakes are made by using one part of grated raw dasheen 
to one, two, or three parts of wheat flour, with the other ingredients as usual. 


CREAMED DASHEENS. 
Boil the dasheens in the skin and proceed as for creamed potatoes. 
DASHEEN SALAD. 


Boil medium-sized or small dasheens in the skin and proceed as for potato 
salad. It is very important to prepare the dasheens while still warm and to 
add the dressing at once. 


DASHEENS AS FILLING FOR FOWL AND OTHER MEATS. 


2 cups of riced dasheen. 12 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
1 cup-of bread crumbs. Season to taste with salt, pepper, sage, 
1 egg. and onion. 


The dasheens should be poiled and riced in the usual way. They make a 
particularly delicious filling. 





3 cups of milk. 


; 84 URS of riced dasheen, as 
ie fi © lee fist 


i, 


water and add fe Pate waa dasheen, tae 
utes. Season and serve. nit 


peeks ce 
Wo. A. TayLor, ‘an 
: Chief of Bureau. 
Srepremper 19, 1916. on 
) } 
A 
‘ i 
} if 
ips ; rs “ 3 
: ay 


