Digitized by tine Internet Arcliive 

in 2007 witli funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



littp://www.arcliive.org/details/cliangesinfoodsupOOmenduoft 



CHANGES IN THE FOOD SUPPLY AND 
THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 






Changes in the Food Supply 

AND Their Relation 

TO Nutrition 



By 
LAFAYETTE B. MENDEL 

Professor of Physiological Chemistry in the Sheffield 
Scientific Sciiool of Yale University 





New Haven: Yale University Phess 

London: Humphrey Milford 

Oxford University Press 

MDCCCCXVI 



1 Copyright, 1916 

By Yale UNrvKRSiTY Press 



First printed February, 1916, 1500 copies 



PREFATORY NOTE 

This essay was written for the 
meetings of The Second Pan American 
Scientific Congress, at Washington, 
December, 1915. 

Lafayette B. Mendel 

Sheffield Scientific School, 
Yale University, 

New Haven, Connecticut. 



CHANGES IN THE FOOD SUPPLY AND 
THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 



CHANGES IN THE FOOD SUPPLY AND 
THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 

"In the type of civilization with which we are 
most familiar there are two fundamental ele- 
ments — supplies of food energy and supplies of 
mechanical energy. Since, at present, partly 
because of geographical conditions, these do not 
necessarily (or even in general) occur together, 
there is a third essential factor, the line of trans- 
port."^ A comprehensive consideration of any 
one of these factors, such as the food supply, can- 
not be completely dissociated from its relations 
to the others. The development of commerce 
among nations having adequate means of com- 
munication has, for example, rendered the dis- 
tribution of food materials easy and developed a 
sense of security (under normal conditions) 

1 Dickson, H. N.: The Redistribution of Mankind. 
Presidential Address to Section E (Geography) at the 
Birmingham meeting of the British Association, September, 
1913. Report British Association for the Advancement of 
Science, Birmingham 1913, pp. 536-546. London 1914. 



2 CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

against failure of food supplies. The growing 
organization of transportation facilities has en- 
couraged the introduction of dietary changes 
never thought possible or even contemplated a 
few generations ago. Incidents associated with 
the altered distribution of wealth have improved 
the nutrition as well as other conditions of living 
among that large group of our population which 
has been termed the "healthier well-to-do classes." 
The supply of food energy and its availability 
where needed are interrelated closely with a vari- 
ety of factors, the bearing of which upon the 
problem at hand is not always evident upon the 
surface. Some of these features may be classi- 
fied superficially as follows: 

1. Food production. 

2. Food preservation and food conservation. 

3. Transportation facilities. 

4. Customs in diet. 

5. Changing industrial and social conditions, 
and other economic and hygienic factors. 

Food Production. — The problem of food pro- 
duction is the fundamental concern of agriculture. 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 3 

How profoundly its practices are being changed 
by the progress of science and the mechanic arts 
is familiar to every observant person. The food 
supply has been increased in part through more 
intensive methods of agriculture, in part through 
the enormous extension of areas suitable for culti- 
vation. In view of the increase of population it 
has been a favorite pastime for scientists to cal- 
culate the possibilities of the food supply of the 
future and to venture prophesies involving the 
prospect of impending failures. A forecast by 
Sir William Crookes of the relations between the 
probable increase of the world's supply and de- 
mand of wheat — "the most sustaining food grain 
of the great Caucasian race" — ^was widely dis- 
cussed when his estimates were published. In a 
Presidential Address to the British Association 
for the Advancement of Science in 1898 Crookes 
said : 

Should all the wheat-growing countries 
add to their (producing) area to the utmost 
capacity, on the most careful calculation the 
yield would give us only an addition of some 



CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

100,000,000 acres, supplying, at the average 
world yield of 12.7 bushels to the acre, 
1,270,000,000 bushels, just enough to supply 
the increase of population among bread eat- 
ers till the year 1931. . . . Thirty years is 
but a day in the life of a nation. Those 
present who may attend the meeting of the 
British Association thirty years hence will 
judge how far my forecasts are justified. 

Fifteen years later Professor Dickson said: 

Half the allotted span has now elapsed, 
and it may be useful to inquire how things 
are going. Fortunately, this can be easily 
done, up to a certain point, at any rate, by 
reference to a paper published recently by 
Dr. J. F. Unstead, in which comparisons are 
given for the decades 1881-1890, 1891-1900, 
and 1901-1910. Dr. Unstead shows that 
the total wheat harvest for the world may 
be estimated at 2,258,000,000 bushels for the 
first of these periods, 2,675,000,000 for the 
second, and 3,233,000,000 for the third, 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 5 

increases of 14 per cent and 26 per cent, 
respectively. He points out that the in- 
creases were due "mainly to an increased 
acreage," the areas being 192,000,000, 211,- 
000,000, and 242,000,000 acres, but also 
"to some extent (about 8 per cent) to an 
increased average yield per acre, for while 
in the first two periods this was 12 bushels, 
in the third period it rose to 13 bushels per 
acre." 

If we take the period 1891-1900, as nearly 
corresponding to Sir William Crookes's ini- 
tial date, we find that the succeeding period 
shows an increase of 658,000,000 bushels, 
or about half the estimated increase re- 
quired by 1931, and that attained chiefly 
by "increased acreage." 

But signs are not wanting that increase 
in this way will not go on indefinitely. We 
note (also from Dr. Unstead's paper) that 
in the two later periods the percentage of 
total wheat produced which was exported 
from the United States fell from 82 to 19, 



CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

the yield per acre showing an increase mean- 
while to 14 bushels. In the Russian Empire 
the percentage fell from 26 to 23, and only 
in the youngest of the new countries — Can- 
ada, Australia, and the Argentine — do we 
find large proportional increases. Again, it 
is significant that in the United Kingdom, 
which is, and always has been, the most 
sensitive of all wheat-producing countries to 
variations in the floating supply, the rate of 
falling off of home production shows marked 
if irregular diminution. 

Looking at it in another way, we find 
(still from Dr. Unstead's figures) that the 
total amount sent out by the great export- 
ing countries averaged in 1881-1890, 295,- 
000,000 bushels; 1891-1900, 402,000,000; 
1901-1910, 632,000,000. These quantities 
represent, respectively, 13, 16.6, and 16.1 
per cent of the total production, and it 
would appear that the percentage available 
for export from these regions is, for the time 
at least, approaching its limit — i.e., that 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 7 

only about one-sixth of the wheat produced 
is available from surpluses in the regions 
of production for making good deficiencies 
elsewhere. 

There is, on the other hand, abundant 
evidence that improved agriculture is begin- 
ning to raise the yield per acre over a large 
part of the producing area. Between the 
periods 1881-1890 and 1901-1910 the aver- 
age in the United States rose from 12 to 14 
bushels; in Russia, from 8 to 10; in Aus- 
tralia, from 8 to 10. It is likely that in these 
last two cases at least a part of the increase 
is due merely to more active occupation of 
fresh lands as well as to the use of more 
suitable varieties of seed, and the effect of 
improvements in methods of cultivation alone 
is more apparent in the older countries. 
During the same period the average yield 
increased in the United Kingdom from 28 
to 32 bushels; in France from 17 to 20; 
Holland, 27 to 33; Belgium, 30 to 85; and 



CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

it is most marked in the German Empire, for 
which the figures are 19 and 29. 

In another important paper Dr. Unstead 
has shown that the production of wheat in 
North America may still in all likelihood be 
very largely increased by merely increasing 
the area under cultivation, and the reason- 
ing by which he justifies this conclusion cer- 
tainly holds good over large districts else- 
where. It is of course impossible, in the 
present crude state of our knowledge of our 
own plant, to form any accurate estimate of 
the area which may, by the use of suitable 
seeds or otherwise, become available for 
extensive cultivation. But I think it is clear 
that the available proportion of the total 
supply from "extensive" sources has reached, 
or almost reached, its maximum, and that we 
must depend more and more upon intensive 
farming, with its greater demands for labor. 

The average total area under wheat is 
estimated by Dr. Unstead as 192,000,000 
for 1881-1890, 211,000,000 acres for 1891- 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 9 

1900, and 242,000,000 acres for 1901-1910. 
Making the guess — for we can make nothing 
better — that this area may be increased to 
300,000,000 acres, and that under ordinary 
agriculture the average yield may eventually 
be increased to 20 bushels over the whole, we 
get an average harvest of 6,000,000,000 
bushels of wheat. The average wheat 
eater consumes, according to Sir William 
Crookes's figures, about 4^^ bushels per 
annum; but the amount tends to increase. 
It is as much (according to Dr. Unstead) 
as 6 bushels in the United Kingdom and 8 
bushels in France. Let us take the British 
figure, and it appears that on a liberal esti- 
mate the earth may in the end be able 
to feed permanently 1,000,000,000 wheat 
eaters. If prophecies based on population 
statistics are trustworthy, the crisis will be 
upon us before the end of this century.^ 

Interesting as such speculations are, despite the 
number of uncertain variables with which they 
a Dickson, H. N.: loc. cit., p. 538. 



10 CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

necessarily deal, they fail to take into considera- 
tion the altered prospects arising out of the mod- 
em increasing knowledge of the science of nutri- 
tion. It is by no means improbable that progress 
in food chemistry and the study of metabolism will 
point the way to substitutes for what is now re- 
garded as a staple foodstuff. We shall see what 
changing customs in diet have already brought 
about in many instances. If corn, for example, 
does not satisfy the requirement of a staple crop 
for human consumption, it is not at all unlikely, 
in view of information already available, that 
small addenda of other foods may suffice to sup- 
plement it so as to produce a more perfect ration. 
One may appropriately recall here that evidences 
of adequate nutrition are available from people 
nourished in most diverse ways in different parts 
of the world. Even if the wheat problem were to 
become one of urgency within an appreciable 
period, this need not necessarily be construed into 
a forecast of an actual shortage of food. Within 
a few months attention has been directed to the 
possibility of growing in the United States at 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 11 

least two plant products which may serve as 
human foods. One of these is proso millet, the 
other grain sorghum or kaoliang, both of which 
have long been known in other parts of the world 
as constituents of the diet of mankind. Both of 
these seeds can be milled like the familiar cereals 
and served like these or transformed into culinary 
products after admixture with flour which enables 
them to be prepared for baking. The peculiar 
agricultural advantage in such crops lies in the 
fact that they are drought-resistant. Proso will 
grow when and where the staple small grains that 
require moist regions fail. Kaoliang represents a 
tropical annual plant which can, by cultivation, 
be extended north as far as Indian com on this 
continent. The dietary possibilities of both proso 
and kaoliang have already been tested in a semi- 
public way.' 

Food Preservation and Food Conservation. — 
The preservation of food affects the food supply 
by making it possible to utilize in times and places 

8 Hansen, N. E.: Proso and Kaoliang as Table Foods. 
South Dakota Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 
158, March, 1915. 



12 CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

of relative scarcity products which are available 
in a season and region of abundance. From an 
early period preservative methods have been em- 
ployed. Some of them are so familiar that they 
are frequently not even recognized as belonging in 
the category of food preservation. Desiccation, 
canning, pickling, salting, smoking, low tempera- 
ture, freezing, special chemicals — these are some 
of the factors that enter into this aspect of our 
theme. The significance of most, if not all, of 
these procedures is more largely economic than 
hygienic. 

The cold storage methods now in use represent 
a comparatively recent development of the preser- 
vation problem. According to Sherman, only 
since about 1893 have the quantities of food mate- 
rials placed in cold storage been large enough to 
have an appreciable effect upon market condi- 
tions. As an illustration of its efficiency recent 
experiments have shown that fresh fish — a food 
product notably subject to speedy deteriora- 
tion — may be preserved frozen, by the best cold 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 13 

storage processes, without undergoing any impor- 
tant change for at least two years.* 

Modern bacteriology has placed upon cleanli- 
ness a preservative value which may appear sur- 
prising in respect to its efficiency, particularly 
in conjunction with low temperatures which 
inhibit the development of micro-organisms detri- 
mental to foods. As an example of what such 
sanitary precautions can accomplish in the case 
of readily deteriorating milk Sherman states that 
*'three American dairy farms exhibited raw milk 
at the Paris Exposition of 1900, one of them 
sending weekly shipments throughout the summer, 
each of which was kept on exhibition in the raw 
state without spoilage until the next shipment 
arrived. It was difficult to convince the jury of 
European experts of the fact that 'cleanliness and 
cold' were the only preservatives needed to accom- 

* Smith, C. S.: A Study of the Influence of Cold-Storage 
Temperatures upon the Chemical Composition and Nutri- 
tive Value of Fish. Biochemical Biilletin, 1913, iii, 54; 
Perlzweig, W., and Gies, W. J.: A Further Study of the 
Chemical Composition and Nutritive Value of Fish Sub- 
jected to Prolonged Periods of Cold Storage. Ibid., 1913, 
iii, 69. 



14 CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

plish the keeping of raw milk in a fresh, sweet 
condition for two to four weeks in midsummer."' 
Precisely such methods, combined with modern 
transport facilities, have made it possible to ex- 
tend the range of milk supply in our large cities 
literally hundreds of miles and to bring an indis- 
pensable food at a reasonable price into every 
home. There is, indeed, a profound difference 
between marketing mUk in the familiar manner 
now practiced and the older mode of distribution 
when goats or cows were driven in front of the 
home to be milked there. 

Probably no single preservation device excels 
that of desiccating the material. In the absence 
of moisture decay is arrested. Where the water 
content of a natural food is not unduly large it 
can often be dried readily with success. Dried 
meats, fish, and fruits have long belonged to the 
list of preserved foods. In the case of products 
comparatively rich in water, particularly liquid 
or semi-liquid foods, successful methods of desic- 
cation have awaited the perfection which is begin- 

B Sherman, H. C: Food Products. New York 1914, p. 53. 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 15 

ning to manifest itself at the present day. Aside 
from the element of cost, the use of heat to expel 
moisture has the objection that it alters the pro- 
duct in some cases so that it is no longer dieteti- 
cally acceptable. Heat also may remove desir- 
able volatile ingredients. Flavors, which play a 
very important role in rendering a food accept- 
able to the consumer, are not always thermostab- 
ile. Modern industry is likely to overcome many 
of the difficulties by the device of desiccation at 
lower temperatures either in a vacuum or a cur- 
rent of air. A most satisfactory instance of this 
is seen in the case of milk. Condensed and evapo- 
rated milks are likely to be superseded by dried 
milk of which superior grades are already being 
manufactured. The successful desiccation of 
milk — a product of which seven-eighths is water — 
with retention of the solubility on which the prac- 
tical applications largely depend, and with its 
nutritive virtues presumably intact, is an up-to- 
date accomplishment. 

The possibility of a satisfactory outcome of 
the efforts now being made in the milk industry 



16 CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

deserves more than a passing notice. MUk not 
only is a valuable food; it is at present an indis- 
pensable component of the diet during growth, 
and no entirely satisfactory method of preserva- 
tion has hitherto been devised. With one Ameri- 
can brand of dried milk as the chief component of 
the ration, several investigators, including my- 
self, have raised small animals into a second 
generation. If the best dried milk of the future 
shall be shown to retain even the more subtle 
physiological properties, such as its antiscorbutic 
potency, it will represent good achievement. 

The expression "food conservation" is used in 
the present discussion perhaps not in accord with 
a strict definition but rather in the broader cur- 
rent sense in which we speak of the conservation of 
other resources. The growing use of by-products 
finds its exemplification in the food industries as 
well as in other branches of commerce; and 
directly or indirectly this aflFects the problem of 
food supply. In some instances the use of the 
by-products has rendered profitable and therefore 
possible the production of a food which otherwise 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 17 

could not be marketed advantageously. The 
meat industry presumably affords instances where 
the price of edible parts has been kept within 
reasonable limits by the increasing market 
value of what was once merely worthless refuse. 
Tankage belongs to the latter category. The 
refinement of this aspect of modern industry is 
exemplified when the fine hairs in the ears of cattle 
fattening for market are clipped for the special 
manufacture of expensive "camel's hair" brushes ; 
and likewise in the careful removal and collection 
of the seeds from raisins introduced into commer- 
cial mince meat. From these supposedly worth- 
less seeds valuable raisin oil is subsequently ex- 
tracted. The by-products of the sugar industries 
are notably important. Part of them are literally 
used to get gold. The residues from the desac- 
charification factories are rich in nitrogen which 
is in part converted into sodium cyanide. Tons 
of this have been exported to the Transvaal, where 
it has been used for extracting the precious metal 
by the well-known cyanide process. 

For the food supply it is more important that 



18 CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

in many instances what was in the past regarded 
as refuse or a useless dietary constituent has been 
converted into edible products. Sometimes, as 
in the case of grain products, in the distilleries, 
breweries, etc., by-products now serve as cattle 
feeds and thus indirectly conserve the food supply 
of man. In other instances new human foods have 
been devised. Cotton seed oil, oleo oils from beef, 
and other fats are no longer despised as constitu- 
ents of the diet. In some cases chemistry has 
aided to alter the fats into a suitable texture and 
consistency for culinary purposes. Slaughter- 
house blood finds its way into food products. 
Corn sirups and glucose sugars artificially pre- 
pared from cheap sources of starch have survived 
the propaganda of prejudice and now represent 
one of the cheapest sources of wholesome nutri- 
ment. Deteriorated products such as old butter 
are **renovated" and returned into the food 
treasury. Hydrogenated fats are a modern 
innovation. 

The digestive functions of man offer a barrier 
to the successful use of certain agricultural pro- 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 19 

ducts as human nutrients. Complete digestion 
is a prerequisite to adequate nutrition. Cellulose, 
which is so widely distributed in plants, is unutil- 
ized by man because it is indigestible. It is 
theoretically conceivable, however, that cellulose 
can be converted into available carbohydrate by 
chemical procedures. Other plant constituents, 
wholesome in themselves, are often practically 
unutilized in the alimentary tract because they 
are protected by impervious coverings. In such 
cases the physical texture of the product is at 
fault. The alimentary utilization of the food- 
stuffs, particularly the indispensable proteins, in 
common foods such as the legumes and cereal 
grains is far below what pertains in most animal 
food products. Some presumably valuable vege- 
table proteins cannot be used as food by man 
because his digestive juices cannot get at them in 
the condition in which they are usually exhibited 
for use. Improved culinary methods and pro- 
cedures for extreme comminution, particularly 
after desiccation, may alter this situation in com- 
ing years. A beginning has already been advo- 



20 CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

cated by H. Friedenthal in the case of certain 
green vegetables. The growing use of nut pro- 
ducts and nut pastes, and the widespread popu- 
larity of the readily digested "peanut butter," 
prepared from an article which is looked upon as 
difficult of digestion in its imperfectly commi- 
nuted form, shows what industries can do to over- 
come dietary prejudices or domestic ignorance, by 
enhancing palatability and digestibility. 

Of aU the foodstuffs, the proteins offer the most 
serious problem. They represent the indispens- 
able staple for tissue construction; they are pro- 
duced at the greatest expense. The quantitative 
aspects of the protein requirement of man have 
been warmly debated in recent years. One ex- 
treme view of the superiority and consequent 

[liberal need of protein was expressed by Liebig* 

las follows: 

' Everywhere throughout organized nature, 

where animal life is developed, we find the 
phenomena of life depending on the presence 

« von Liebig, J.: Familiar Letters on Chemistry. 3d 
edition. London 1851. 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 21 

of albumen. The continuance of life is indis- 
solubly connected with its presence in the 
blood, that is, in the nutrient fluid. In so 
far as the notions of formation, nutrition, or 
the nutritive property are inseparable from 
that of a substance, whose properties and 
composition are collected in the word albu- 
men; only those substances are in a strict 
sense, nutritious articles of food, which con- 
tain either albumen, or a substance capable 
of being converted into albumen (p. 346). 

The "plastic foods" of Liebig were the pro- 
teins. Accordingly he says again: 

All these organized tissues, all the parts, 
which in any way manifest force in the body, 
are derived from the albumen of the blood; 
all the albumen of the blood is derived from 
the plastic or sanguigenous constituents of 
the food, whether animal or vegetable. It is 
clear, therefore, that the plastic constitu- 
ents of food, the ultimate source of which is 
the vegetable kingdom, are the conditions 



22 CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

essential to all production or manifestation 
of force, to all those effects which the animal 
organism produces by means of its organs of 
sense, thought, and motion (p. 366). 

The other extreme is represented by the modem 
so-called "low protein" advocates. From the de- 
bate of this topic it has become probable that 
although some views as to the importance of 
protein in the dietary have been exaggerated, a 
liberal factor of safety must be allowed. In any 
event, protein has lost the special significance 
which it assumed in Liebig's day as the unique 
source of energy. As a guide in the consideration 
of the protein supply of the future we may recall 
the attitude of Professor Rubner, an expert in the 
field of nutrition study, before the Fifteenth Inter- 
national Congress on Hygiene and Demography 
at Washington in 1912 : 

Nutrition in the cities has at all times a 
tendency toward refinement, but in former 
times, when the classes lived strictly sepa- 
rate, the food materials were also very dif- 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 23 

ferent within the city walls. The food of 
the nobility was different from that of the 
middle class, and the latter from that of the 
poor people. Among the materials success- 
fully used in the culinary art a high place 
has always been held by the meat of mam- 
mals, fowls, and fishes. These meats were 
the chief part of the meal, other foods of 
vegetable origin, as salads and vegetables, 
sweets and flour foods being added. Bread 
remained in the background. The traditions 
of this culinary art have remained the same 
down to our days. This diet of the upper 
classes is the only one which provides the 
pleasures of the table, it is rich in proteid 
and fat, it is not voluminous, does not over- 
burden the stomach, tends less to obesity 
than any other diet, keeps the body even of 
a lazy man in good condition, and does not 
overwork the digestive functions. The less 
well-to-do reduce, of course, the amount of 
meat, but they use in its place bread and 
potatoes. This is called a mixed diet. When 



24 CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

the barriers between the classes fell, the mid- 
dle classes gradually rose to the more luxu- 
rious food of the formerly privileged classes. 

It is a fact that the diet of the well-to-do 
is not in itself physiologically justified; it 
is not even healthy, for, on account of false 
notions of the strengthening effect of meat, 
too much meat is used by young and old and 
by children, and this is harmful. But this 
meat diet is publicly sanctioned ; it is found in 
all hotels, it has become international and 
has supplanted almost everywhere the char- 
acteristic local culinary art. It has also 
been adopted in countries where European 
culinary art was unknown. Long ago the 
medical profession started an opposition to 
the exaggerated meat diet, long before the 
vegetarian propaganda was started. It was 
maintained that flour-foods, vegetables, and 
fruit should be eaten in place of the over- 
large quantities of meat. 

The descendants of those well-nourished 
classes are, on account of many influences. 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 25 

especially the school and the indoor life, not 
always the strongest part of the nation, but 
since in recent times bodily exercises have 
become general, they are again decidedly in 
the ascendency. 

The sanitary conditions of the great mass 
of industrial workers and their children, and 
of people of very small earnings, are differ- 
ent. Here we find a decided deterioration 
of the body, as is amply shown by the re- 
cruiting for military purposes. In spite of 
continuous migration from the country to 
the cities, conditions are little changed. The 
social surroimdings of a great city are de- 
cidedly unfavorable to the maintenance of a 
strong race. Among the many factors which 
cause this decrease of bodily efficiency nutri- 
tion is not the least. 

The industrial workers coming from the 
country to the city cannot well get along 
with their former simple diet, because the 
cheap food materials which are easily ob- 
tained, as bread and potatoes, contain too 



26 CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

little proteid. They undoubtedly need an 
increase of proteid material. Neither can 
they find in the city the food conditions to 
which they had formerly been used; but 
they accommodate themselves rapidly to new 
conditions, coming into the new surround- 
ings, as they usually do, without a family. 
Just as, under the doctrine of political equal- 
ity, the lower classes try to attain the luxu- 
rious table of the well-to-do, so it is not sur- 
prising that industrial workers, coming from 
the country to the cities, accommodate them- 
selves to the new dietary forms. 

The workingman does not want proteid, 
leguminous food, milk, etc., to improve his 
vegetable diet; he wants simply meat, not 
because he needs it, but because it is for 
him a matter of pride to follow as best he 
can the other classes in his diet. The diffi- 
culty is that the cost of meat is considerably 
higher than in the country, where food can 
usually be obtained without the aid of deal- 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 27 

ers, and where many foodstuffs are raised on 
one's own land. 

The importance of the conservation of protein 
had led to numerous investigations of the economy 
of this foodstuff which need not be discussed 
here.' 

Transportation Facilities. — The concentration 
of population in restricted areas is necessarily 
limited by the possibilities of the food supply. 
The latter is the corollary of finding suitable 
accommodations for increasing numbers. Within 
less than a century nearly every region of the 
globe has been tapped by railways or water-way 
facilities to permit the more uniform distribution 

7 The following is a partial list of monographs dealing 
with some aspects of this topic: Chittenden, R. H.: Physio- 
logical Economy in Nutrition, 1904; Chittenden, R. H.: 
The Nutrition of Man, 1907; McCay, D.: The Protein Ele- 
ment in Nutrition, 1912; Rubner, M.: Volksernahrungs- 
fragen, 1908; Rubner, M.: Wandlungen in der Volksernah- 
rung, 1913; Hindhede, M,: Protein and Nutrition, 1913; 
Rubner, M.: Ueber modeme Emahrungsreformen, 1914; 
Mendel, L. B.: Theorien des Eiweissstoffwechsels nebst 
einigen praktischen Konsequenzen derselben, Ergebnisse der 
Physiologic, 1911, xi, 418-525; Mendel, L. B.: Nutrition and 
Growth. Harvey Society Lectures, 1914-15. 



28 CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

of things. The competition of the different lines 
of transportation has been an interesting phase 
in the exchange of commodities, among which food 
has been conspicuous. The end is not in sight ; for 
with the added possibility of preserving foods at 
reasonable cost, a new chance for distribution has 
arisen. American wheat has long traversed a con- 
tinent by train or crossed an ocean in a steamer's 
hold; but the sight of Australian meats in the 
London market, of Californian fruits and vege- 
tables in Boston, of eggs from China in Chicago, 
or of Wisconsin milk in Manila was reserved for 
the present generation. In earlier days the diet- 
ary habits of peoples were developed on the basis 
of the native products of the soil. Now, when the 
means of transportation are no longer primitive, 
specific demands can readily be satisfied by impor- 
tation. This is particularly exemplified where 
certain habits of taste have persisted longer than 
the local sources of supply. 

Customs in Diet. — To one who has given little 
thought to the subject, the dietary habits of a 
community or nation may appear as something 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 29 

fairly fixed from generation to generation. This 
is, however, far from a correct view. Adequate 
nutrition may be exemplified alike among the 
meat- and blubber-eating Eskimos and the strictly 
vegetarian Hindoos. But particularly where the 
dietary instincts have led mankind to adopt a 
more diversified mixed ration one may discover 
shifts of custom and changes of eating habits 
within comparatively short periods. A compre- 
hensive survey of this feature of dietetics and an 
examination of the underlying causes would fur- 
nish interesting physiological, sociological, and 
economic details. A few typical illustrations must 
suffice to indicate these interrelations between 
customs in diet and the food supply. 

The use of fresh fruits has been enormously ex- 
tended among the progressive peoples of temper- 
ate zones within the past two decades. Some of 
these food products, such as orchard fruits, have 
long been favorites in the dietary and because of 
their superior keeping qualities have been avail- 
able over long periods of the year. The output 
of orchard fruits has kept pace with the growth 



80 CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

of population. The value of the products of the 
orchard in the United States, in 1840, was about 
$8,000,000; a recent census report gives the 
figure $140,867,000. Among other types of 
fruits proportionately greater increases are 
noted. "Small fruits" contributed $30,000,000 
grapes, $22,000,000; citrus fruits, $23,000,000 
other tropical and subtropical fruits, $2,000,000 
to the production of fruits in the United States in 
1909. Many of these, like the orange and grape- 
fruit, have become prominent in the diet of the 
well-to-do because of the readiness with which they 
can be obtained at a reasonable price everywhere 
during most of the year. Science, the mechanic 
arts, and business organization have combined to 
revolutionize the distribution and marketing, as 
one may learn in studying the work of the Cali- 
fornia Fruit-Growers' Exchange. The once enor- 
mous losses from decay have been greatly reduced 
and the marketed products are of a superior 
quality. 

There is a physiological justification for the 
increasing prominence of fruits in the diet of the 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 31 

better classes and its extension throughout all 
seasons of the year. With the growing use of 
highly digestible foods and the exclusion of indi- 
gestible food residues, with the widespread em- 
ployment of milled cereals largely freed from cor- 
tical parts, with the tendency to exclude the 
**coarser" vegetables or limit their inclusion in the 
menus of the better classes, the absence of "rough- 
age" in the diet combined with other features of 
modern living helps to induce habitual constipa- 
tion in certain classes of society. The fruits serve 
a useful purpose in counteracting this tendency 
by promoting the movement of the bowel — Whence 
the expression : "An apple a day keeps the doctor 
away." 

The familiar adage just quoted has been con- 
verted into an advertising slogan in some of the 
apple-growing states of the West. This leads me 
to call attention to the potent force of advertising 
in creating a demand for food products of most 
varied sorts. The same agency which has created 
a nation-wide mania for chewing-gum and has 
initiated in all ranks of society a senseless habit 



82 CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

of mastication which was, until a few years ago, 
limited to the overlooked improprieties of child- 
hood, has been reflected in the food market. The 
ready-to-eat "breakfast foods" in highly adver- 
tised, neat and attractive packages have replaced 
the less expensive cereals long sold in bulk. The 
change is not merely one of the container or pack- 
age; the contents no longer are the same. Oat- 
meal, for example, has lost some of its former 
popularity as a breakfast dish through the inroad 
of cornflakes and wheat foods. The breakfast 
staples have been changed by the modern adver- 
tiser; and illustrations of his ingenuity might be 
extended to include numerous food products. Ex- 
cept from the standpoint of extreme economy the 
innovations have as a rule been wholesome and 
usually in the interest of food hygiene. The 
purity of the products has not infrequently sur- 
passed the honesty of the advertisement. 

Most of us can recall the days when meat or 
eggs, or both, formed an indispensable part of the 
early meal, in the United States. At present there 
are signs everywhere, at least among those classes 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 33 

which are not engaged in more vigorous muscular 
work, of a simplification of this meal by the exclu- 
sion of meat and the substitution of cereals and 
fruits. This is an approach to the traditional 
breakfast of continental Europe. It is not easy 
to analyze the underlying causes for such dietary 
changes; they are not solely physiological nor 
economic in origin. Rubner has remarked that 
sometimes revolutions occur in the field of popular 
nutrition. The introduction of the potato in 
many extensive regions is cited as an illustration. 
It might be supposed that bread, "the staff of 
life," remains essentially what it has been in days 
gone by. This food product, however, furnishes 
an example of the evolution of a food industry. 
Bread making is gradually becoming a factory 
problem. The magnitude of this may be appre- 
ciated from the statement that the baking indus- 
try is today capitalized at over $270,000,000; 
yet housekeepers still make 70 per cent of the 
product used.* With increasing efficiency and 

8 These statistics and related statements are taken from 
Duncan, R, K.: Some Chemical Problems of Today. New 
York, 1911. Chapter on Bread. 



84 CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

range of distribution the use of bakers' bread is 
certain to increase; just as butter, pickles, mus- 
tard, etc., are no longer exclusively home-made 
products. As soon as larger corporate interests 
become involved in the food industries, altered 
methods of manufacture are likely to be intro- 
duced when they seem both profitable and feasible. 
Food innovations are not readily introduced in 
the home; but in the factory they frequently be- 
come questions of dollars and cents. In the manu- 
facture of baked goods the cost of production has 
been modified by the substitution of dried milks 
for fresh milk, and of vegetable fats for the more 
expensive butter. The manufacture of yeast has 
become specialized into an important industry 
which reacts upon the public with the cleverly 
advertised admonition to "eat more bread." 

Wheat has unique properties which adapt it to 
the production of bread as we now know it. Other 
seeds are competing for recognition. New "flours" 
are proposed. The proso and kaoliang flours 
already mentioned are among them. Even cotton 
seed "flour" is clamoring for recognition. When 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 35 

glutenous adjuvants are supplied to cereals which 
lack them, and when more science is infused into 
the art of baking, new bakery products are likely 
to arise. 

The use of fats in the diet is doubtless increas- 
ing in the United States. It is estimated that 
the consumption of butter alone reaches 23 to 24 
grams (3/4 to 4/5 of an ounce) or approximately 
200 calories per person per day. An inspection 
of the dietaries in the public establishments of 
half a century ago, as they are reported in the 
treatises of that period," reveals the important 
part taken by bread in the regimen. Butter was 
often entirely omitted in the daily allowances of 
asylums, prisons, military groups, and other typi- 
cal institutions. Frequently the diet lists of those 
days call for bread and molasses or bread and 
milk. Bread without butter or some other fat is 
now the rarity, at any rate in American homes. 
Despite the discouragement which the oleomar- 

•For example, in Pereira, J.: A Treatise on Food and 
Diet. New York 1843. 



86 CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

garine industry has received from legislation, oft- 
times unwarranted, the use of butter substitutes 
is spreading as the price of the original product 
is increasing. Here too the advertising bill-boards 
are already pointing out the future way. Butter 
substitutes are not only used directly in the meal, 
but are finding a wide field of application in the 
cooking and baking processes of the kitchen. 

Another change in diet customs is seen in the 
growing use of cheese in American homes. This 
wholesome article has long been appreciated at 
higher value in European countries than in our 
own. Nuts and nut foods are becoming more 
popular, in part as the result of the modern vege- 
tarian propaganda which recommends them as 
"meat substitutes." The value of the peanut crop 
is about $20,000,000. Sherman remarks that "to 
speak of nuts as 'meat substitute' is natural under 
present conditions and reflects the prominence 
which has been given to meat and the casual way 
in which nuts have been regarded for some genera- 
tions. Looking at the matter in evolutionary 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 37 

perspective it might be more logical to speak of 
meats as 'nut substitute' instead." 

The current extensive use of sucrose in the 
form of refined cane sugar or beet sugar exem- 
plifies what the cheapening of an article of com- 
merce can accomplish in the field of diet. Al- 
though sucrose has a considerable fuel value in 
the organism its dietary use is primarily dictated 
by considerations of flavor. Opinions are occa- 
sionally divided as to the place of this sugar in 
the dietary. It seems as if the extremes of refine- 
ment which have made commercial sucrose in a 
chemical sense the purest of all purchasable food- 
stuffs had exceeded all requirements of nutrition 
or dictates of the palate. The addition of a blue 
dyestuff to give a white appearance to the final 
product represents one of the psychological values 
which are often more ridiculous than costly. 
Surely for most uses the artificially colored white 
sugar has nothing except a false standard to 
recommend it in place of the natural cream- 
colored sugar. 

It is likely that the succulent vegetables will 



88 CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

play a larger part in the table of American house- 
holds. Dr. C. F. Langworthy, Chief of the Office 
of Home Economics in the States Relations Ser- 
vice at Washington, says: 

One of the marked differences between the 
daily fare today and that of fifty years ago 
consists in the increased supply of green and 
succulent vegetables, a class of food used, 
as their names imply, for their refreshing 
and palatable qualities more than for their 
total nutritive value. Not many years ago 
the winter's supply of vegetables in all 
southern countries was limited to root crops 
and a few other staples, such as onions and 
cabbage, which could be kept in the cellar 
in comparatively good condition. New and 
improved varieties, better methods of culti- 
vation, improvements in transportation and 
storage, the greater development of market 
gardening under glass, and the development 
of the canning and preserving industry, have 
made succulent vegetables common through- 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 39 

out the year and available in one form or 
another for almost every family/" 

The popularity of green vegetables is begin- 
ning to be reflected in the canning industries 
where the variety of such products is being ex- 
tended rapidly and the canning process has al- 
ready developed into an important enterprise. 
To the more familiar commercial lists including 
tomatoes, corn, peas, and beans, there are being 
added asparagus, beets, okra, pumpkin, sweet 
potato, rhubarb, sauerkraut, spinach, and squash. 
The extent of this canning industry and its 
growth in a single decade is shown statistically, as 
follows : 



10 Langworthy, C. F.: Green Vegetables and 
' in the Diet. American Food Journal, October 



d Their Uses \ 
15, 1912, p. 5. / 



40 



CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 



Extent of the Canning Industey in the 
United States^^ 

Quality and Vaiue of Foods Cakked, 1899, 1909 



1909 



1899 



Cases 

Vegetables 32,752,469 

Tomatoes 12,909,986 

Corn 7,451,265 

Peas 5,901,703 

Beans 3,392,864 

Asparagus 228,559 

Pumpkin 440,303 

Sweet potatoes 347,286 

All other 2,080,503 

Fruits 5,518,999 

Peaches 1,484,808 

Apples 1,205,742 

Apricots 630,185 

Pears 637,782 

Berries 815,851 

Cherries 390,351 

All others 354,280 



Value 


Cases 


Vahie 


$51,568,914 


19,323,730 


$28,734,598 


18,747,941 


8,700,538 


13,666,560 


10,332,136 


6,336,984 


8,191,383 


10,247,363 


2,543,722 


4,465,673 


6,013,098 


1,493,517 


2,025,123 


1,975,775 






576,043 


138,078 


202,404 


531,651 


83,526 


124,245 


3,144,907 


27,365 


59,210 


12,938,474 


4,467,817 


11,311,062 


3,753,698 


1,449,356 


4,283,165 


1,898,720 


645,762 


1,125,119 


1,825,311 


531,648 


1,538,252 


1,833,214 


672,485 


2,188,201 


1,754,927 


600,419 


1,092,975 


1,019,013 


114,367 


307,788 


853,591 


453,780 


730,563 



The indirect effects of the anti-alcohol cam- 
paign now vigorously conducted in many coun- 
tries are seen in the stimulation of trade in so- 
il Bitting, A. W,: Methods Followed in the Com- 
mercial Canning of Foods. U. S. Department of Agri- 
culture, Bulletin 196, Washington 1915. 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 41 

called temperance drinks. It comes as a surprise 
to an "old timer" to see buttermilk retailed over 
the bar of the American saloon. The grape juice 
industry has grown by leaps and bounds ; and this 
alcohol-free natural product is veritably becoming 
one of the national drinks. I am informed from 
expert sources that the production of American 
unfermented grape juice in the year 1914 
amounted to 4,593,750 gallons in the Chautauqua 
belt alone. Other fruits also are likely to figure 
in the new field of use here opened. It is stated 
that twenty-five per cent of the apples grown in 
American orchards never enter into the food sup- 
ply of the nation. This has been a stimulus to 
the food conservationists to transform the unused 
materials into new forms of food. Apple sirup 
and concentrated cider have been suggested as 
new products for utilizing surplus and cull 
apples.^^ The expert of the Department of Agri- 
culture remarks: 

12 Gore, H. C: Apple Sirup and Concentrated Cider: 
New Products for Utilizing Surplus and Cull Apples. 
Yearbook of the Department of Agriculture for 1914, 
Washington 1915, p. 227. 



42 CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

What the commercial future of the two 
products will be remains to be determined 
under actual marketing conditions. The 
department has every confidence in the feasi- 
bility of making the two products where the 
apple supply and the manufacturing con- 
ditions are suitable. The development of 
this infant industry must now be left in the 
hands of the progressive American manufac- 
turer. A process which will make pure, 
fresh cider available as a summer drink at 
our soda fountains should open up a new and 
valuable market for the juice of surplus 
apples. Whether young America will eat 
apple sirup on his bread and his mother use 
it in her kitchen must be decided by the 
American people. 

Similar considerations are being applied to 
other fruits now wasted. 

The "dairy lunch" rooms of our cities and 
larger villages represent an innovation in dietary 
practice. The dinner pail and the lunch basket 
filled with home-made food have given way to 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 43 

"ready-made meals." To one group of persons 
the "lunch rooms" represent a welcomed escape 
from the more expensive luxuries of the conven- 
tional restaurant; likewise a possibility of sub- 
stituting old-fashioned pastry and cereal dishes 
for the usual dining room meal rich in meat. To 
another, increasing class, however, they offer a 
means of reducing the labor of the household by 
the device of a public eating place. The recent 
interesting study of a familiar chain of these 
"dairy" restaurants, published under the auspices 
of the Sage Institute by Grephart and Lusk,^' 
show that the popular sandwich meal of the lunch 
counters is by no means a cheap diet for the work- 
ing classes who have a limited allowance to spend 
for food. Attractive as the highly profitable 
service of the **dairy lunch" may be, with its con- 
genial environmental features, it cannot compete 
with **home cooking" from the standpoint of econ- 
omy. This lesson needs to be brought home to a 
nation which is continually discussing the high 

13 Gephart, F. C, and Lusk, G.: Analysis and Cost of 
Ready-to-serve Foods. Press of the American Medical 
Association, Chicago 1915. 



44 CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

cost of living. Domestic arts should not become 
relegated entirely to corporate enterprise. 

Changing Social and Industrial Conditions and 
Other Economic and Hygienic Factors. — Rubner 
has pointed out an interesting effect of com- 
merce in food on nutrition. 

"Most conservative as to the food ques- 
tion," he remarks, **is the farmer, though in 
the coimtry, too, many changes are taking 
place. He has frequent contact with the 
city, but he has still plenty of food material 
though not always quite suitable to the pur- 
pose. I have noticed a very unfavorable 
influence of urban food requirements on the 
milk producing districts of some regions of 
Switzerland and Germany, which is so char- 
acteristic that it deserves consideration. The 
milk producing regions of the Bavarian 
highlands and of Switzerland had formerly 
an extremely healthy, strong, and temperate 
population. Milk was largely used as a 
food, and the excess of production was 
placed on the market. In the course of years 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 46 

the communities gradually established cen- 
tral dairies in which the fat is withdrawn 
from the milk by means of centrifugal 
machines to produce cream and butter. The 
impoverished milk is partly returned to the 
farmers. The milk producers are paid in 
cash for their product, but a poor and insuf- 
ficient food takes now the place of a former 
healthy one. The money now goes to the 
saloons. The potato conquers a new terri- 
tory. Instead of the butter which was for- 
merly used, cheap fats are now bought; in 
short, the change of diet is exactly such as 
we find with the poorer working population 
in the cities. The effects are exactly the 
same. Physical deterioration in such dis- 
tricts becomes more and more pronounced, 
reaching finally a low level. This is a very 
serious condition, which attracts attention 
and which must be combated by all possible 
means." 

Rubner believes, further, that the industrializa- 
tion of nations is attended by a change in body 



46 CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

weight, not because the race has changed in itself, 
but because the nutritive conditions have changed 
for a large number of laboring people through 
migration to the cities. Today only a small pro- 
portion of the industrial establishments are in 
rural communities, where the living conditions are 
favorable. The problem of the under-fed is thus 
closely related to the distribution of the food 
supply. 

The present European war is affording an op- 
portunity to study the relation of the food sup- 
ply to unexpected economic and territorial con- 
ditions. From the standpoint of Germany the 
situation is unique in view of the exclusion of 
food normally obtained in large amounts from 
abroad. Russia, America, and other countries 
have hitherto furnished wheat, rice, butter, lard, 
eggs, and many other foods, along with cruder 
feeds which in turn were applied to animal pro- 
duction. These sources have been threatened or 
entirely cut off. With real scientific acumen the 
German nation has started a public propaganda 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 47 

of advice intended to meet the situation thus 
unexpectedly created/* The export of native 
products, such as sugar and rye, is to be re- 
stricted; the feeding of materials suitable for 
human consumption to cattle is to be greatly 
decreased and conservation of food values ordi- 
narily lost in the processes of conversion into 
animal tissue accomplished; unjustifiable waste is 
to be avoided not only in the trade at large but 
in the individual kitchen. The elaborateness of 
the investigation is indicated by such details as 
the reminders that 20 grams of fat per capita are 
lost in the sewage waste of Berlin every day, and 
that this ought to be prevented. The people are 
Assured, on the authority of eminent scientists, 
that they need not fear intelligently instituted 
•changes of dietary regime as something inimical 
to health. The laws of nutrition and suitable 
<iietetic advice are being proclaimed and dis- 

1* Eltzbacher, P.: Die Deutsche Volksemahrung und 
•der Englische Aushungerungsplan. Fr. Yieweg & Sohn, 
Braunschweig 1915. 



48 CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

tributed in popular form/'* The more liberal use 
of plant products (rich in carbohydrates) in 
place of meats (rich in proteins and fats) is 
urged. As a move in the direction of economy in 
nutrition the gradual substitution of the regimen 
of South German households in place of the exces- 
sive meat diet of the northern provinces is urged. 
Even a cook-book for war times is freely supplied.^' 

The experience of the commissary department 
of the United States Army in Cuba during the 
campaign of 1898 has taught the mistake not 
only of disregarding local conditions, but also of 
failing to grasp important dietary principles and 
to inculcate them where the lessons are needed. 

No presentation of the problems of the food 
supply would be complete without an appreciation 
of what the growing science of physiology and 
the chemistry of foods is contributing to mankind. 

18 For example, in pamphlets such as "Ernahrung in 
der Kriegszeit," ein Ratgeber von Prof. Dr. Paul Eltz- 
bacher, Frau Hedwig Heyl, Prof. Dr. Carl Oppenheimer, 
Prof. Dr. Max Rubner und Prof. Dr. Nathan Zimtz. 
Braunschweig 1915. 

la For example, the "Kriegskochbuch" von Frau Hedwig 
Heyl. Berlin 1915. 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 49 

The calorie-idea in nutrition, the outcome of an 
understanding of the transformation of energy 
in the living body, has been fruitful in more ways 
than one. It has taught people to think of the 
uses of food from a more rational standpoint and 
has furnished an intelligible basis for constructive 
institutional dietetics as well as the nutrition of 
the individual. Food is beginning to be regarded 
as fuel for the human organism — something that 
must be provided in determinable amounts. Mal- 
nutrition and undernutrition have received a new 
popular significance in the discussion of human 
efficiency. 

This is not the place to discuss the limitations 
of the calorie-idea in nutrition or of some of the 
current conceptions of the role of the individual 
nutrients — the proteins, fats, carbohydrates, and 
inorganic salts. There is a well-founded growing 
belief that an important part in nutrition is 
played by substances which are not identical with 
the familiar foodstuffs mentioned and which, de- 
spite the minimal amounts thereof present in the 
diet, may nevertheless be indispensable for growth 



50 CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

and the maintenance of life. They have been 
called "accessory diet factors" or **vitamin8." We 
may conceive of them as stimulating certain physi- 
ological processes and as essential to certain 
functions. 

The lubricant is quite as important to a machine 
as is the energy-furnishing fuel. So these diet 
accessories may have a peculiar usefulness. Some 
of them are believed to be easily impaired by heat ; 
in the language of the chemist, they may be ther- 
molabile. Hence the use of heat for preserving 
or sterilizing foods suggests new diflSculties. 
They may sometimes be lost in the wastes of the 
modern technical processes, as in the milling of 
cereals. This has been demonstrated in the case 
of "polished" rice. They may be sensitive to 
other agencies involved in the change from fresh 
to salted or "prepared" or preserved foods. 

These topics represent the border line of our 
knowledge of today. Enough facts are known, 
however, to justify the interest which the subject 
is receiving. Scurvy has long been recognized 
as a disease related to diet, and the antiscorbutic 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 51 

and curative virtues of certain food products like 
lemon juice were early learned by experience. To 
these so-called "deficiency diseases," beri-beri and 
possibly pellagra, rickets, and Barlow's disease 
may be added. I have discussed special features 
of this question elsewhere.^' They help to ex- 
plain the occasional failure of one-sided dietaries, 
and possibly the incidence of disease in groups of 
people living through ignorance under restricted 
conditions of diet, in institutions, on expeditions, 
on shipboard, during famine, and sometimes amid 
plenty. 

The danger, if there be such, of a lack of unrec- 
ognized diet accessories is probably greatest in 
the exclusive use of "artificial" foods which have 
experienced extensive alterations in the course of 
their commercial preparation. In the present 
stage of our knowledge, variety of food, includ- 
ing fresh foods of many descriptions, may be wel- 
comed on this ground alone. Canned goods, 

17 Mendel, L. B,: Nutrition and Growth. The Harvey 
Society Lectures, 1914-15. Also Journal of the American 
Medical Association, May 8, 1915, p. 1539. The literature 
of the subject is presented there in some detaiL 



52 CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

glucose, margarine, refined sugar, highly milled 
cereals — ^in themselves skillfully produced speci- 
mens of modern technical progress — should be 
supplemented with fresh foods for safety until our 
knowledge has grown to supersede the uncertainty 
of present-day ignorance about unappreciated de- 
ficiencies of the diet. If the factory and organ- 
ized business have introduced "artificial" pro- 
ducts, modern industrial organization and trans- 
portation have likewise increased the possibilities 
of physiological liberality in diet. The studies of 
the past few years on the physiology and chem- 
istry of the ripening of fruits is only one indica- 
tion of how science is enlarging the possibilities 
of the food supply through an understanding of 
underlying factors. Useful investigations on the 
date, the banana, the apple, and other fruits have 
already been instituted by our government. 

The recent progress in the physiological chem- 
istry of the proteins illustrates a trend that is 
likely to affect feeding practices in the future. 
The protein molecule is composed of a group of 
unlike chemical units, many of which appear to 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 63 

be indispensable for the nutritive functions/* The 
animal body cannot construct all of these syn- 
thetically, hence it is dependent upon a supply 
thereof in the diet. The proteins of common foods 
furnish unlike yields of these essential units or 
tissue "building stones." It is accordingly be- 
coming apparent that a well-selected ration must 
furnish these in both quantitative and qualita- 
tive sufficiency. Com and the by-products of the 
maize kernel are notably inadequate for good 
feeding results unless they are supplemented by 
other protein-containing foods. The relative 
economy of the addition of supplementary pro- 
teins, such as are present in dried blood or milk 
products, to a ration that is inexpensive, but 
inefficient by itself, suggests new standards in our 
feeding practices. A small addition of an ade- 
quate protein may be far more advantageous for 
producing gains in animal husbandry than large 
amounts of cheaper proteins which supplement the 

18 For a detaUed discussion of this subject consult 
Underbill, F. P.: Tbe Physiology of the Amino Acids. 
Yale University Press 1915. 



54 CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

deficiency of the basal ration less well.^® Our 
Agricultural Experiment Stations are becoming 
alive to the opportunities here opened. Fodder 
analysis has taken a new tum.^° It is probable 
that protein feeding in the future will be based on 
the known chemical structure of the feeds quite as 
much as on the results of past feeding experiments. 

19 Cf. Osborne, T. B., and Mendel, L. B.: Feeding 
Experiments Relating to the Nutritive Value of the Pro- 
teins of Maize. Journal of Biological Chemistry, 1913, 
xiv, p. xxxi; Nutritive Properties of Proteins of the Maize 
Kernel. Journal of Biological Chemistry, 1914, xviii, 1; 
Osborne, T. B.: The Nutritive Value of the Proteins of 
Maize. Science, 1913, xxxvii, 185; Osborne, T. B., and 
Mendel, L. B.: The Comparative Nutritive Value of Cer- 
tain Proteins in Growth, and the Problem of the Protein 
Minimum. Journal of Biological Chemistry, 1915, xx, 351; 
Protein Minima for Maintenance. Ibid., 1915, xxii, 241. 

20 Cf. Nollaxi, E. H.: The Amino-acid Content of Certain 
Commercial Feeding Stuffs and Other Sources of Protein. 
Journal of Biological Chemistry, 1915, xxi, 611; Grindley, 
H. S., Joseph, W. E., and Slater, M. E.: The Quantitative 
Determination of the Amino-acids of Feeding Stuffs by the 
Van Slyke Method. Journal of the American Chemical 
Society, 1915, xxxvii, 1778; Hart, E. B., and Bentley, W. H.: 
The Character of the Water-soluble Nitrogen of Some 
Common Feedingstuffs. Journal of Biological Chemistry, 
1915, xxii, 477; Buckner, G. D., Nollau, E. H., and Kastle, 
J. H.: The Feeding of Young Chicks on Grain Mixtures of 
High and Low Lysine Content, American Journal of 
Physiology, 1915, xxxix, 163. 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 55 

Here, as so often before, the investigations of 
what is sometimes contemptuously referred to as 
**pure" science have furnished results of great 
importance to practical nutrition. Sir William 
Crookes, whose forecast of the failing wheat sup- 
ply has been referred to, could scarcely foresee 
that the progress of physiological chemistry 
might in itself nullify the contentions which he 
vigorously defended. 

A corollary of a better understanding of the 
principles involved in the field of human nutrition 
is the improvement of household science and the 
domestic arts. Herein lies the significance of the 
notable "home economics movement" of the pres- 
ent time. Nutrition and its relation to the food 
supply is in no small measure a problem of the 
home. Just as the lessons of modern science are 
permeating the practices of up-to-date agricul- 
ture, so they ought to influence and modify the 
performance of the household. The latter has 
been described as a social institution employing 
certain material agencies which include the provi- 
sion of food and clothing. Its relations to other 



56 CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

social institutions are manifold. Upon industry, 
for example, the household exerts an influence by 
maintaining the physical vigor and efficiency of 
the worker ; and industry, in turn, affects the home 
by the character of the supplies which it furnishes. 
We are told that the household is the ultimate 
agency in the distribution of economic wealth to 
individuals.'^^ What the wage-earner really se- 
cures and the wife and children secure, depend 
upon the efficiency with which the household turns 
the wage-income into economic good, and, at the 
same time, supplements it by the income-equiva- 
lent of household work. The contribution of pro- 
ductive household work is too little emphasized. 
The home can become responsible for malnutrition 
and insanitary living. An appreciation of food 
costs, of efficient marketing, of the "casual se- 
quence of food from the farm to the dining 
room," of the preparation of food for the table, 
surely is of fundamental import in every home. 
The culinary art, upon which so much may de- 

21 Cf. Andrews, B. R.: A Course in Household Econom- 
ics. Journal of Home Economics, February, 1913, p. 26. 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 67 

pend, is in danger of deteriorating in the homes 
of this country. The admonition to "cook at 
home" should be passed on to the less well-to-do 
classes and the education of their young in the 
applications of domestic science should be warmly 
defended. No baker's bread equals the best home- 
made product. Too few women of the working 
classes are equipped to meet the demands which the 
home should properly make upon them. 

Many years ago Liebig wrote, in his Familiar 
Letters on Chemistry: 

Among all the arts known to man, there 
is none which enjoys a juster appreciation, 
and the products of which are more univer- 
sally admired, than that which is concerned 
in the preparation of our food. Led by an 
instinct, which has almost reached the dig- 
nity of conscious knowledge, as the unerring 
guide, and by the sense of taste, which pro- 
tects the health, the experienced cook, with 
respect to the choice, the admixture, and the 
preparation of food, has made acquisitions 
surpassing all that chemical and physiologi- 



58 CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

cal science has done in regard to the doc- 
trine or theory of nutrition. In soup and 
meat sauces, he imitates the gastric juice; 
and by the cheese which closes the banquet, 
he assists the action of the dissolved epithe- 
lium of the stomach. The table, supplied 
with dishes, appears to the observer like a 
machine, the parts of which are harmoni- 
ously fitted together, and so arranged, that, 
when brought into action, a maximum of 
eflfect may be obtained by means of them. 
The able culinary artist accompanies the 
sanguigenous matter with those which pro- 
mote the process of solution and sanguifica- 
tion, in due proportion; he avoids all kinds 
of unnecessary stimuli, such as do not act 
in restoring the equilibrium; and he provides 
the due nourishment for the child as well as 
the old man, as well as for both sexes. 

Even Liebig, the great scientist, could not ade- 
quately visualize the application of science in the 
kitchen. Man no longer depends upon his 
instincts alone for guidance in the affairs of life; 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 59 

otherwise progress would indeed be slow. Instruc- 
tion in domestic science ought to become a means 
of solving the problems of applied nutrition; and 
the best interests of the home — economic as well 
as social — call for better domestic service, a dis- 
cipline into which woman will enter "mit Lust und 
Liebe." 

We have seen that the problem of food supply 
is not one which can be dismissed by the social 
philosopher or solved by the calculations of the 
economist. It is highly complex with its involve- 
ment of factors and interests in agriculture, com- 
merce, industry, and nutrition. Here, as in other 
domains, there is opportunity for an interplay of 
science and the arts, of experience and investiga- 
tion. To attempt to foretell the future seems 
more like an act of ill-considered rashness than a 
keen intellectual venture. The truth can only be 
approached scientifically. We are beginning to 
learn what real food values mean. There is as yet 
no ideal ration. The "world-menu" is not in sight. 
Fitting indeed on this occasion are the words of 
Professor Rubner : 



60 CHANGES IN FOOD SUPPLY 

The nutrition of the great mass of the 
people is a question of the highest impor- 
tance, deserving far more attention than it 
has hitherto received. All the great coun- 
tries oiight to have a central authority, a 
food commission, which should concern itself 
exclusively with the far-reaching questions 
of the well-being of the people. The mate- 
rial, as it lies before us today, is very incom- 
plete, but suffices to indicate the main lines 
of useful work. The nutrition of the masses 
has so far been mostly studied with regard 
to political economy and according to meth- 
ods and viewpoints which do not always 
withstand the tests of the physiology of 
nutrition. Only by means of the physiology 
of nutrition is it possible to carry on exact 
research. 

The nutrition of the masses is to us a 
problem which may be approached and im- 
proved from many sides. It is necessary 
that not only the hygienists, in the narrower 
sense, take up the struggle for betterment, 



THEIR RELATION TO NUTRITION 61 

but that also the great army of men, who are 
truly humane in their hearts, shall take their 
places beside us. The battle which we have 
to carry on is not only against unavoidable 
and natural difficulties; we must not forget 
that human society includes many elements, 
unwilling to make the least concession to a 
humanitarian movement, persons whose pros- 
perity is selfishly held superior to the wel- 
fare of their neighbors, and who will oppose 
such a movement with all the means at their 
command. Let us hope that our opponents 
will, at the last, rejoice with us in a triumph 
of the Humane Idea.^^ 

22 Rubner, M,: The Nutrition of the People. Journal of 
Home Economics, 1913, v, 1. 




I. .« m L I 



C2 
O 
O 



»^-^ 



« 

H^ s:: 



i o 

o 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO 
LIBRARY 



Do not 



re move 
the card 
from this 
Pocket. 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. " Ref. Index File." 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



Ill 



'iih 



I:! I 






I.! rn :, 






i'il iji H; i; 

"S I'liMiM ,|!l 



■I 'iiii!'!; 



'Ml;:ii!'^;M, 



I 



