ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 








^~z-^~. — -- = '_ 


f 




From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912. 





CORNELL UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924086682394 



JUST A FEW 

TRIED and TRUE 

RECEIPTS 



B E 



|EING A MANUSCRIPT COOK-BOOK 
PRINTED AND SOLD FOR THE 
BENEFIT OF THE PROVIDENCE DAY 
NURSERY ASSOCIATION AND SOCIAL 
SETTLEMENT WORK IN THE CITY 
OF PROVIDENCE. RHODE ISLAND 



A.D. MCMXVI 






ATANDAKt) 
PRINTINO 
COMPANY 
■ PROVIDENCE, K. I. 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 

Foreword 5 

Table of Weights and Measures 7 

Soups , 9 

Fish 11 

Made Dishes v 13 

Meats 20 

Game and Poultry 21 

Vegetables 22 

Sauces and Stuffing 25 

Salads 28 

Bread, Sandwiches, Breakfast and Tea Cakes 34 

Plain, Sweet Cakes 42 

Fancy Cakes 48 

Pastry S3 

Puddings 56 

Dishes for Dessert 61 

Canning, Preserving, Marmalades, Jellies, 

Pickles and Candy 68 

Beverages 75 

Useful Receipts and Hints 83 

Medicinal Receipts 91 



FOREWORD 



WHEN I was a little girl, my mother gave me a 
manuscript cook-book, into which I was to 
copy the receipts for cookies and gingersnaps 
which Bridget Giblin taught me to make. 

I have copied many other receipts given me by kind 
friends into the book since then and, worn out with a 
long and strenuous life, it is dropping to pieces. 

It is this book of receipts which has been printed 
and is to be sold for the benefit of social settlement 
work here in Providence. If kind friends purchase a 
copy and are disappointed in the contents, they will at 
least feel that they have helped on a most worthy 
cause. 

Isabel Harris Metcalf. 

303 Angell street, Providence, R. I. 



TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

2 cupf uls butter I pound or i pint 

4 cupf uls pastry flour i pound or I quart 

2 cupf uls granulated sugar i pound or i pint 

2 2/3 cupfuls powdered sugar 1 pound 

31/2 cupfuls confectioners' sugar 1 pound 

2 2/3 cupfuls brown sugar 1 pound 

9 large eggs 1 pound 

cupfuls cut sugar 1 pound 

4 gills 1 pint 

2 pints 1 quart 

4 quarts 1 gallon 

8 quarts v 1 peck 

1 pint liquid weighs 1 pound 

16 ounces , . . 1 pound 

1 heaping tablespoonful sugar 1 ounce 

1 heaping tablespoonful butter 2 ounces 

8 tablespoonf uls dry material 1 cupful 

16 tablespoonfuls liquid material 1 cupful 



The temperature for deep-fat frying varies between 
345° and 400° F. When the fat will brown a bit of 
stale bread in 40 seconds by the clock, the correct 
temperature has been reached for croquettes, cooked 
vegetables to be browned, and small fish, as trout and 
oysters. For fritters, doughnuts, cheese-balls, and so 
forth, the bread should be browned in one minute, and 
for lamb chops, veal cutlets and French-fried pota- 
toes, the bread should brown in a minute and a half. 



9 

SOUPS 



POTATO SOUP 
(a la Maria Samson) 

Salt, 1 teaspoonful. Milk, 1 pt. 

Eggs, 2 yolks. Potatoes, 4, boiled and 

Butter, size of an egg. mashed. 

Water, 1 pt. Onions, 1, boiled in milk. 

Boil the onion with the milk and water. Pour over 
the mashed potatoes; strain; add salt and pour over 
the egg yolks, slightly beaten and stirred smooth with 
a little cream, and serve immediately with toasted 
bread cut in squares. 

MOCK BISQUE SOUP 
(a la Nannie Blodget) 

Stew a can of tomatoes and strain them. Add a 
pinch of soda to correct acidity. In another sauce- 
pan, boil 3 pts. of milk. Thicken with a tablespoonful 
of flour, mixed with a little cold milk. Then add but- 
ter, the size of an egg. Also salt and pepper. Pour 
on to the tomatoes ; let all come to a boil, and serve. 

PUMPKIN SOUP 

Cooked pumpkin, 1 cupful. Boiling milk, 1 qt. 
Melted butter, 1 table- Croutons, 
spoonful. 

Cut pumpkin in small pieces. Sprinkle with salt 
and cook in boiling water 5 minutes. Drain, mash, 
and into a cupful stir tablespoonful melted butter. 
Pour boiling milk over croutons arranged in soup-dish 
and sugared. Then add pumpkin, stirring well to- 
gether. Serve. 



10 

CHESTNUT SOUP 
(A. C. A: B.) 

Chestnuts, 50. Veal stock. 

Onions, 1. Milk, J4 pt. 

Celery, 1 stalk. Eggs, 1 yolk. 

Salt. Cream, teacupful. 

Blanch 50 chestnuts, remove husks and shell. Boil 
10 minutes. Put into a stew-pan with 1 sliced onion, 
1 stick sliced celery, salt and good veal stock to cover. 
Put buttered paper over pan and stew 1 hour. Rub 
through a tammy (fine sieve) into J4 pt. milk and 
enough stock to make a nice consistency. While hot, 
stir in yolk of 1 egg and 1 teacupful of cream and 
serve. 

SOUP BAG 

Cloves, 3. Summer savory and thyme, 
Peppercorns, 6. 3 sprigs. 

Mustard seeds, 4. Celery seeds, Vi teaspoon- 
Dried parsley, 3 sprigs. ful. 
Basil, 3 sprigs. 

Tie in a tiny round of cheese-cloth and hang over 
the side of the soup kettle. 



11 
FISH 

TURBOT A LA CREME 
(a la Nannie B.) 

Boil 5 lbs. fresh cod or halibut ; pick it up and set 
away to cool. Make a sauce of i qt. milk boiled with 

1 onion and parsley. Set it away for half an hour and 
strain. Warm a cup of butter and mix with it enough 
flour to take up the butter. Put the milk, onion, and 
parsley on the fire again, and stir in the flour and but- 
ter till all are boiled, about as thick as soft custard, 
seasoning it highly with cayenne pepper and salt. Put 
a layer of fish in a dish, then sauce, and so on. Cover 
with bread-crumbs and put in the oven till brown. 
This makes a large dishful. 

FISH CAKES 

One pint bowlful of salt codfish, picked very fine. 
Two pint bowlfuls of whole, raw, peeled potatoes, put 
together in cold water and boiled until the potatoes 
are thoroughly cooked. Remove from the fire and 
drain off all the water. Then mash them with a pota- 
to-masher and add a piece of butter the size of an egg, 

2 well-beaten eggs and a little pepper. Mix it all well 
together with a fork, beating till light. Have ready a 
frying-pan of clear, boiling-hot lard, into which drop 
the mixture from a spoon and fry like fritters. Do 
not soak or freshen the fish before boiling with pota- 
toes and do not mould the cakes, but drop from the 
spoon. They must not be mixed over night, else they 
will be hard. Some prefer them harder, in which case 
they may be crumbled, rolled in egg to which a little 
milk has been added, crumbed again and fried. 



12 

FISH CROQUETTES 
(A. C. A. B.) 

White sauce. Parsley. 

Walnut catsup. Chive. 

Eggs, 2 yolks. Cooked Fish. 
Salt. 

Make a rich white sauce with cream. Season with 
walnut catsup and add yolks of 2 eggs, salt and 
chopped parsley and a little chopped chive. Add 
chopped cooked fish till mixture will leave sauce-pan. 
Pour into buttered dish to cool. Cut in pieces and fry 
in deep fat. Do not let mixture be too thick. 

STEWED LOBSTER 

Take all the meat out of 2 lobsters ; do not chop it, 
but mix and lay it in a scallop shell ; pour over it half 
a pint of beef stock, half a pint of port wine, salt, 
pepper, cayenne, as for scalloping. Strew over half a 
teaspoonful of finely minced parsley and half a dozen 
minced mushrooms. Cover with crumbs and slice of 
butter. Bake 15 minutes and serve in the scallop shell. 

LOBSTER NEWBURG 
(John Ulber) 

Lobsters, 3. Cream, 1 cupful. 

Butter, 2 tablespoonfuls. Salt, 1 teaspoonful. 

Flour, 1 heaping table- Pepper, }4 teaspoonful. 

spoonful. Sherry, }4 glassful. 
Eggs, 4 hard-boiled yolks. 

Blend butter and flour. Mash yolks of eggs in 
cream over fire. Add slowly butter and flour, melted, 
salt and pepper and meat from three lobsters cut in 
rather large pieces. Stir continually; add sherry and 
serve. Serve White Label Bass with it. 



13 
MADE DISHES 



CHOP SUEY 
Lean pork. Sweetbreads. 

Celery. Cornstarch. 

Onion. West India molasses. 

Chicken broth. Salt. 

Chicken. China Soy. 

Cut tender, fresh, lean pork into thin pieces ij^ 
inches long, i inch wide. Saute in fat tried out from 
fresh pork. Have ready as much celery and an onion, 
cut fine. To the browned meat, add celery and onion. 
Cover with chicken broth and simmer till nearly ten- 
der. Then add blanched sweetbreads cut in slices and 
sauted in fat from which the meat was taken. For a 
quart, stir a level tablespoon ful of cornstarch with 
cold water, to make a paste. Then stir i or 2 table- 
-spoonfuls of West India molasses, teaspoonful salt, 
tablespoonful China soy. Set to stand over fire. . 

CROQUETTES 
Delmonico describes croquettes as the attractive 
French substitute for American hash, and tells how to 
make them: "Veal, mutton, lamb, sweetbreads, al- 
most any of the lighter meats, besides cold chicken 
and turkey, can be most deliciously turned into cro- 
quettes. Chop the meat very fine. Chop up an 
onion, fry it in an ounce of butter, add a tablespoonful 
of flour; stir well, and then add the chopped meat 
and a little broth, salt, pepper, little nutmeg; stir for 
2 or 3 minutes, then add the yolks of 2 eggs, and turn 
the whole mixture into a dish to cooL When cold, 
mix well together again, divide up into parts for the 
croquettes; roll into the desired shape, roll in bread- 
crumbs, dip in beaten egg, then into bread-crumbs 
again, and fry crisp, a bright golden color. Any of 
these croquettes may be served plain, or with tomato 
sauce or garniture of vegetables." 



14 

CHEESE CROQUETTES 
(F. Robeson) 

Grated cheese, 1 cupful. Butter, 2 tablespoonfuls. 

Milk, Yi, cupful. Eggs, yolks of 2. 

Flour, 2 tablespoonfuls. Cayenne to taste. 

Cook, roll into shape with eggs and bread-crumbs, 
and fry in deep fat. 



RICE CROQUETTES 

Rice, 2 cupfuls, boiled cold. Powdered cracker, y 2 a cup. 

Melted butter, 3 table- Sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls. 

spoonfuls. Lemon-peel, a large pinch, 
Eggs, 3, beaten well, and grated fine. 

raw one. Salt to taste. 
A small amount of flour. 

Beat eggs and sugar together, and work the butter 
into the rice. Stir with this, the beaten eggs. Season 
and make up very soft; chill in ice-box; mould in 
forms; crumb, roll in egg and milk, and then crumb 
again and fry in deep fat. 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

Chicken, 5 cupfuls, chopped Cayenne pepper. 

fine. Salt. 

Hominy, 3 cups, boiled fine. Eggs, yolks of 2. 

Chopped parsley. A little milk. 
Mace. 

Fry a very little finely chopped onion in butter, hav- 
ing the other ingredients well mixed. Stir them into 
the onion and cook until stiff enough to mould, but 
not till browned. Set it aside, and when cool mould 
in forms, then dip them in. the well-beaten whites of 
the eggs, roll in bread-crumbs and fry them brown. 



15 

SCALLOPED CHICKEN 
(Mabel) 

Chicken. Celery salt. 

Potatoes. Egg. 

Chicken broth. Onion salt. 

Cornstarch. Cracker-crumbs. 
Milk. 

Cut raw potatoes in dice and parboil 10 minutes in 
salted water. Same quantity cold chicken, diced. 
Make sauce of chicken-broth, thickened with corn- 
starch, 'wet in hot water. If not sufficient broth, use 
milk. To i pint of liquor, use i egg, beaten. Season 
to taste, celery and onion salt. Put a layer of chick- 
en, then potatoes, then sauce, etc. Cover with cracker- 
crumbs moistened in melted butter. Bake one-half 
hour. 

SUPREME OF CHICKEN 
(Mrs. DuBois) 

Chop fine the breast of a raw or cooked chicken 
and beat thoroughly into it, one at a time, 4 eggs and 
half a pint of cream. Season with pepper and salt. 
Butter small moulds, fill with the chicken, and bake, 
standing in hot water and covered with buttered paper, 
for 20 minutes. Do not let the water boil. Turn from 
the moulds and serve hot with Bechamel, mushroom 
or tomato sauce. 

HAM SLICES WITH ASPARAGUS 
(A. C. A. B.) 

Ham, 6 slices. Tomato puree. 

Madeira, 1 glass. Brown sauce. 

Cut slices of cooked ham and warm in a glass of 
madeira. Pour in some thick tomato puree and a lit- 
tle good brown sauce. Season and turn pan on stove 
till mixture is hot. Serve with cold dressed asparagus. 



16 

NUT AND CELERY LOAF 

Put through the meat-chopper sufficient nut-meats 
to fill a cup, together with the same amount of celery ; 
moisten very slightly a cupful of soft, stale bread- 
crumbs ; mix it with the nuts and celery, flavoring with 
poultry seasoning, half a teaspoonful of salt, a dash 
of cayenne and a teaspoonful of onion-juice. Mix the 
ingredients lightly together, moistening with two tea- 
spoonfuls of butter melted in a cupful of hot milk or 
cream, and after kneading with the hands form into 
an oval loaf ; place this in a buttered pan and bake in a 
moderate oven for about an hour, occasionally bast- 
ing with a mixture of melted butter, hot water and a 
few drops of kitchen bouquet; serve on a mound of 
hot mashed potatoes, accompanied by a cream sauce 
flavored with minced parsley. 

BOILED SOUFFLE 
(A. C. A. B.) 

Butter, % lb. Eggs, 5 yolks and whites. 

Sugar, % lb. Lemons, juice of 1. 

Melt butter, sugar and yolks of the eggs together 
and stir till cold. Add all the whites and the juice of 
one very large lemon. Beat all up and put in a mould. 
Set in a pan of boiling water and boil I hour. Serve 
with foamy sauce. 

VEAL LOAF 

Veal, 3 y 2 lbs., chopped fine. Eggs, 2. 

Pepper, tablespoonful. Butter crackers, 6, pound- 
Savory, tablespoonful. ed fine. 
Butter, size of an egg. 

Mix with hands to a loaf. Bake this 2 hours 
and baste with water occasionally. Shake crumbs on 
top, and butter. 



17 

MEAT LOAF 
(Miss E. N. Rhoades) 

Round steak, 2 lbs. Thyme, Y 3 teaspoonful. 

Salt pork, y 2 lb. Marjoram, y 2 teaspoonful. 

Crackers, 1 cupful. Pepper, shake, 1 teaspoon- 
Eggs, 1. ful. 

Butter, size of a walnut. Milk, 1 cupful. 

Salt, 1 tablespoonful. Small onion if desired. 

Chop steak and pork fine. Bake in a long tin about 
I hour. 

MEAT PUDDING 
(Frau Richter) 

Butter, J4 lb., y 2 cupful. Flour, V A lb., 1 cupful. 

Brown in a spider, then add: 
Milk, l pt. 

When cold, add: 
Eggs, 3 or 4. 

Cut cold roast veal very fine. Add 2 teaspoonfuls 
butter and gravy which has been left over. Also mush- 
rooms and capers. Salt and pepper to taste. Divide 
the first mixture, pour half into a buttered dish, then 
put in the meat. Then pour the remaining portion 
over the top. Put pieces of butter on the top. Put 
in the oven and bake an hour or two. 

STUFFED CUCUMBERS 

Cut lengthwise and scrape. Fill with the following 
mixture : 

Steak, chopped fine. Salt. 

Bread, soaked in a cupful Pepper, 
of milk. Eggs, 1. 

Butter. 

Bake until soft in soup stock with thyme and bread- 
crumbs. 



18 
APPLE AND BANANA COMPOTE 

Fill a baking-dish with alternate layers of sliced 
tart apples and sliced bananas, sprinkling each layer 
with a little sugar. See that bananas form the top 
layer. Brush over with melted butter, sprinkle with 
sugar, cover closely and bake in a slow oven an hour 
and a half. Remove the cover and brown. 



SUPPER DISH 
(Mrs. Balch) 

Grated cheese, y 2 cupful, Bread-crumbs, 1 cupful, 
cooked in butter in previously soaked in 

spider. Milk, 1 cupful. 

After it has been well stirred and cooked, add: 
Eggs, 1, well beaten. Salt. 

Cayenne. 

Serve on crackers, split open. (Boston butter 
crackers.) 



STIRRED EGGS 

Eggs, 6. Fried toast, enough to 

Gravy, 3 tablespoonfuls. cover the bottom of a 

That made from poul- flat dish. 

try is best. Butter, 1 tablespoonful. 

Anchovy paste. 

Melt the butter in a frying-pan, and break the eggs 
into this. Stir in the gravy ; pepper and salt to taste ; 
stir quickly, until the whole is a soft yellow mass. 
Have ready the fried toast, spread thickly with 
anchovy paste. Heap the stirred tgg on this and serve 
before it has time to harden. 



19 

OATMEAL WITH CHEESE 

Boiling water, 1 qt. Grated cheese, 1 cupful. 

Salt, 1 teaspoonful. Butter, 1 tablespoonful. 

Rolled oats, 8 cupfuls. Eggs, 1. 

Put boiling water and salt over a quick fire ; stir in 
gradually the rolled oats till the mixture thickens, then 
cover and cook over boiling water 2 hours. At the 
last moment stir in cheese and butter, and just before 
serving, an egg, beaten light. 

CHEESE CUSTARD 

Bread. Milk, V/ 2 cupfuls. 

Butter. Salt, y 2 teaspoonful. 

Cheese, 2 cupfuls, grated. Paprika, % teaspoonful. 
Eggs, 1. 

Cut bread i inch thick, and butter. Cut in cubes. 
Alternate in layers in a buttered baking dish, with the 
grated cheese. Mix beaten egg, milk, salt and paprika 
and pour over bread and bake until firm. 

CHEESE STRAWS 

Edam cheese, 1 cupful, Cayenne pepper, a few 

grated. grains. 

Butter, J4 cupful. Water, 3 teaspoonfuls. 

Salt, 1 teaspoonful. Flour, 1 cupful. 
Mustard, 1 teaspoonful. 

Roll out a little at a time ; cut with a pastry-wheel ; 
spread on buttered tins and bake 5 minutes in a hot 
oven. 

EGG RAMEKINS 

Half fill buttered ramekin dishes with hot boiled 
rice. Drop a raw egg in each, sprinkle with salt, 
paprika, grated cheese and finely chopped cold ham. 
Set in a pan containing boiling water; cover and bake 
in a moderate oven till eggs are set. 



20 
MEATS 



TO BOIL A HAM 

(a la Mrs. Judge Douglass) 

Soak all night. Simmer the next day till done. Soak 
in its liquor all that night. The next day put on the 
stove, and when hot, remove and plunge in cold water. 
Remove skin, and put i cupful brown sugar, with all 
the California brandy it will hold, on the outside, with 
cloves. Bake 20 minutes. 

TO BOIL A HAM 
(a la Mrs. Patterson) 

Soak all night only if a dry ham. Put into boiling 
water and simmer 5 or 6 hours, with a cupful of vine- 
gar, a handful of spices and 1 cupful brown sugar. 
Let soak all night in liquor in which it was boiled. Re- 
heat ; plunge in cold water. Skin. Put over it, cloves, 
brown sugar and sherry. Bake 2 or 3 hours. 

FRIED FROGS' LEGS 

Throw the legs into boiling water for 5 minutes. 
Take them out and put them in cold water, and wipe 
them until dry. Have some batter made as follows: 
In 1 pint of cream, the yolk of an egg, slightly beaten. 
Have ready some baked bread-crumbs. Dip the legs 
into the cream and egg, and with the fingers powder 
them a little with the bread-crumbs. Fry in the very 
best of butter to a light golden brown. 



21 
GAME AND POULTRY 



ROAST QUAIL WITH CURRANT JELLY 

Clean the quail and plump by letting it stand 5 min- 
utes in boiling water. Spread with olive oil, and let it 
roast in a hot oven 20 minutes, basting several times 
with olive oil and hot water. Serve on a slice of light- 
ly buttered toast. Place a spoonful of currant jelly 
on the breast and garnish with watercress. 

QUAIL AND APPLE 

Roast quail and then place each bird on a hot baked 
apple, split open, and spread with butter. 

ROAST GROUSE 

Stuff with bread-crumbs or slices of toast soaked 
in sherry, celery and parsley seasoned. Spread the 
grouse with butter and pieces of salt pork. Pour boil- 
ing water (2 tablespoon fuls) and 1 teaspoonful melt- 
ed butter in bottom of pan. Roast 17 minutes and 
serve with liquor from pan and mushrooms. 



22 
VEGETABLES 



CORN PUDDING FOR A VEGETABLE 
(Miss Hunter) 

Corn, 12 ears. Salt, 1 generous teaspoon- 

Eggs, 4. ful. 

Milk, V/ 2 generous pts. Sugar, 4 generous table- 

spoonfuls. 

Grate corn; beat eggs with a spoon and mix all in- 
gredients together. Butter deep earthen dish and 
pour mixture into it. Bake slowly 2 hours. When 
corn is old it will take i quart milk; when young, I 
pint. 

BAKED CORN 
(E. R. Harris) 

Corn, 3 to 6 dozen ears, grated lightly. Grate into 
an unbuttered baking dish (glass, if you have it), 
pressing out the kernels with the back of a knife. 
Bake uncovered until done (possibly one-half hour). 
Serve with salt and butter at each plate. 

CHEESE AND CORN IN PEPPERS 

Corn, 1 can. Bread-crumbs. 

Grated cheese, 1 table- Salt. 

spoonful. Pepper. 

Eggs, 2. Paprika. 

Green peppers, 6. 

Add part of cheese to corn and sprinkle with salt, 
pepper and paprika. Beat in the yolks of 2 eggs. 
Then fold in the stiffly beaten whites. Remove the 
tops of the peppers; scoop out the seeds and fill with 
the mixture. Sprinkle more grated cheese and the 
bread-crumbs on top and bake in a hot oven. 

Canned sliced pineapple sauted in butter makes a 
delicious accompaniment for chicken. 



23 



TOMATOES 



Baked. — Take off the stalks from the tomatoes ; cut 
them into thick slices, and put them into a deep bak- 
ing dish; add a plentiful seasoning of pepper and salt 
and butter ; cover the whole with bread-crumbs ; drop 
over these a little clarified butter; bake in a moderate 
oven for 20 minutes to half an hour, and serve very 
hot. 

Scalloped. — Peel and cut in slices one-fourth of an 
inch thick; pack in a pudding dish, in alternate layers 
with a forcemeat made of bread-crumbs, butter, salt, 
pepper and a little white sugar. Spread thickly on 
each layer of tomatoes, and when the dish is nearly 
full put tomatoes uppermost, a good bit of butter on 
each slice. Dust with pepper and a little sugar. 
Strew with dry bread-crumbs and bake (covered) half 
an hour. Remove lid, then bake brown. 

MINT-GLAZED CARROTS 

Wash and scrape 3 carrots and cut in one-fourth- 
inch slices. Parboil for 10 or 15 minutes, drain, put 
into a saucepan with one-third cupful each of sugar 
and butter, and 1 tablespoon ful of chopped mint 
leaves. Cook very slowly until glazed and perfectly 
tender. Serve hot, and as a border surrounding a 
mound of green peas. 

STEWED CUCUMBERS 

A seasonable dish may be prepared by paring 
cucumbers, cutting them in half lengthwise, boiling 
them gently till tender in salted water, laying them on 
toast, and pouring over them white sauce or drawn 
butter, to which a cup of milk has been added. 



24 

APPLE FRITTERS 

Apples, 13. Eggs, 3. 

Milk, 1 qt. Flour, as needed. 

Make a batter, not very stiff, with i quart of milk, 
3 eggs and flour to bring it to a right consistency ; pare 
and core a dozen large apples and chop them to about 
the size of small peas, and mix well in the batter. Fry 
in lard as you do doughnuts, and eat with powdered 
sugar and the juice of a lemon. 

BAKED BANANAS 

Take ripe, firm bananas, with the skins on. With a 
sharp knife cut half the skin off lengthwise, leaving 
the banana in the other half of the skin. Squeeze a 
little lemon- juice and put a little sugar on each banana, 
and put them in a hot oven for 15 minutes. Serve hot. 
They will be found a delightful vegetable, and far 
more digestible than when eaten raw. 



25 
SAUCES AND STUFFING 



LOBSTER SAUCE, TO BE SERVED WITH FISH 
(1878) (E. H. Gammell) 

Chop meat of tail and claws into pieces, half an 
hour before dinner. Make one-half pint drawn but- 
ter sauce with cream. Add lobster with a pinch of 
coral, a pinch of cayenne and a pinch of salt. 

CHILI SAUCE 

Tomatoes, 24. Sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls. 

Onions, 2. Vinegar, 3 cupfuls. 

Peppers, 2. Boil 4 hours. 
Salt, 2 tablespoonfuls. 

CHILI SAUCE 
("Auntie Jackson") 

Tomatoes, 6. Sugar, 1 or 2 teaspoonfuls. 

Onions, 1. Red pepper to taste. 

Vinegar, 2 teaspoonfuls. 

Simmer 2 hours. 



QUICK CHILI SAUCE 
(E. N. Rhoades) 

Tomatoes, 1 can. Cloves, % teaspoonful. 

Onions, 3. Cinnamon, y 2 teaspoonful. 

Vinegar, y 2 cupful. Salt, 1 teaspoonful. 

Sugar, % cupful. Peppers, 1, green. 

Remove seeds from pepper; chop fine with onions; 
chop tomatoes; add other ingredients and cook till 
thick. 



26 

CURRANT JELLY WITH FRESH MINT FOR LAMB 

Currant jelly, 1 glass. Mint, 1 heaping tablespoon- 

Orange peel, 1 teaspoonful. ful. 

Beat a glass of currant jelly with a silver fork, add- 
ing the candied orange-peel, cut in small pieces, and 
chopped mint leaves. 

To give gravy a delicious flavor, add a couple of 
tablespoonfuls of coffee just before serving. 



OYSTER STUFFING FOR TURKEY 

Oysters, 1 pt., with heads Salt. 

chopped. Pepper. 

Bread-crumbs. Butter. 

Thyme. Oyster liquor, strained. 

Marjoram. 

Moisten bread-crumbs with warm (not hot) 
water and add other ingredients, seasoning to taste. 



RICE STUFFING FOR POULTRY 

Wash and boil i cupful of rice; when soft, drain 
until dry. Mix with 7 chopped and peeled tomatoes 
and add half a teaspoonful of salt and i finely 
chopped onion. Mix well. 



CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM 

Cocoa, J4 cupful. Boiling water, 1 cupful. 

Granulated sugar, V/ 2 cup- Vanilla, 1 teaspoonful. 
fuls. 

Sift cocoa and sugar together; pour on boiling 
water and let it come to a boil and boil i minute. 
When cold, beat in i teaspoonful vanilla. 



27 



MOUSSELAINE SAUCE 

Eggs, 4, well beaten till Cream, 1 cupful, heavy, 

light; add slowly. beaten stiff. 

Powdered sugar, 1 cupful. Vanilla, 1 teaspoonful. 
Brandy, 2 tablespoonfuls. 

Cook the eggs, powdered sugar and brandy over 
range 5 minutes, stirring. Set in pan of ice-water and 
beat till cold. Then add the cream, vanilla and a 
pinch of salt! 

SAUCE FOR COTTAGE PUDDING 
(a la Mac) 

Butter, y 2 cupful, creamed. Wine, 3 tablespoonfuls 
Powdered sugar, 1 cupful, Sicily, Madeira or Mar- 

added gradually. sala. 

Nutmeg, grating of 1 on 
top. 



28 
SALADS 



FRENCH DRESSING 

French dressing for their lettuce or green salad is 
hit or miss with most people. There is, however, a 
set rule that insures having the proportions right 
every time. Put into a bowl a half teaspoonful salt 
and a saltspoonful pepper. Add 4 tablespoonfuls olive 
oil, stir with a fork or shake, if in a bottle. Add r 
tablespoon ful lemon-juice or vinegar, mix thoroughly 
and pour over the salad. 



GERMAN DRESSING FOR SWEETBREAD AND 
CUCUMBER SALAD 

Cream, y 2 cupful. Salt, 54 teaspoonful. 

Vinegar, 3 tablespoonfuls. Few grains pepper. 

Beat cream very stiff with Dover egg-beater. Add 
salt, pepper and vinegar very slowly, continuing the 
beating. 



BOILED SALAD DRESSING 

Three eggs, 1 tablespoonful of sugar, oil, mus- 
tard, scant, and salt, 1 cupful of vinegar and 1 cupful 
of milk. Beat the eggs and add the other ingredients ; 
then stir all together over a kettle of boiling water to 
thickness of boiled custard. This will keep good two 
weeks in a closed bottle if kept in a cool place. If de- 
sired, thin with whipped cream when using. 



29 

BOILED DRESSING FOR MARSHMALLOW PINE- 
APPLE SALAD 
Flour, Yz tablespoonful. Butter, Y teaspoonful. 

Sugar, Yz tablespoonful. Eggs, 2 yolks. 

Salt, Y3 teaspoonful. Vinegar, 1Y3 tablespoon- 

Mustard, Y3 teaspoonful, fuls. 

dry. Cream, lY cupfuls. 

Mix dry ingredients ; then add butter and eggs and 
vinegar and cook in double boiler till thick. Cool and 
add enough cream to beat smooth. When cold, add 
best of cream, whipped stiff. Put in ice-box for sev- 
eral hours before serving. 

CURRY DRESSING FOR EAST INDIA SALAD 

Salt, Y\ teaspoonful. Olive oil, 5 tablespoonfuls. 

Curry powder and white Vinegar, 3 tablespoonfuls, 

pepper, Y teaspoonful Or with a mayonnaise, 

each. colored. 

DRESSING FOR AVOCADO OR ALLIGATOR PEAR 

May be served in halves with salt, pepper and vinegar 
or lime-juice, or stuffed olives may be put in the cavity 
with lemon-juice slightly sweetened, or the fruit may 
be peeled and diced — finely chopped onion added with 
salt, pepper and vinegar. 

FRUIT SALAD 

Fruit desired, chopped nuts, lettuce, mayonnaise 
dressing. Cut up any fruits desired, oranges, bananas, 
apples, canned pineapple (drained) and Malaga grapes 
or cherries. The pineapple should be cut into dice; 
the oranges should be peeled, seeded and cut in 
wedges. The apples should be cut into the smallest 
pieces, bananas sliced very thin, the grapes and cher- 
ries halved. Drain the fruit as dry as possible. Then 
mix with an equal quantity of chopped nuts, place on 
lettuce leaves and serve with mayonnaise. 



30 



OYSTER SALAD 

Pick over, drain and parboil till edges curl when 
you shake pan. Cool and drain. Chop hard part. 
Add equal part celery. 

French dressing, J4 cup- Olive oil, 2 spoonfuls. 

ful. Vinegar, 1 spoonful. 

Salt, saltspoonful. Lemon juice, 1 spoonful. 

Pepper, J4 saltspoonful. Onion juice. 

Pour over oysters and celery with little mayon- 
naise. 

CHERRY SALAD 

Stem and pit a pound of perfect cherries, place a 
blanched almond in each and set on the ice to chill. 
At serving time arrange on a pad of freshly picked 
cherry leaves, and dress with lemon-juice and pow- 
dered sugar. 



GRAPE SALAD. 

Peel and seed Malaga grapes, 
leaves with Kellogg dressing. 



Place on lettuce 



SWEET FRUIT SALAD 
(Miss Atwater) 



Grapes. 
Oranges. 
Bananas. 
Pineapple. 


Strawberries, soaked in cin- 
namon, cloves and 
sherry. 

Put whipped cream on top. 




SALAD 
(Mr. Guild) 


Beans. 
Beets. 
Peas. 


Eggs. 

Olives. 

French dressing. 



31 

SALAD 
(Mr. Kellogg) 

To 5 oranges, add i onion sliced in strings. Cut 
oranges in triangles, free from pulp and seeds, or use 
same dressing with grape-fruit, oranges and grapes. 

Granulated sugar, 7 table- Vinegar, 2 tablespoonfuls. 

spoonfuls. Worcestershire sauce, 2 
Oil, 5 tablespoonfuls, thor- tablespoonfuls. 

oughly mixed. 

Keep cool and put on the last moment. 

An unusually snappy salad calls for a small cucum- 
ber, a boiled beet, a couple of anchovies, 2 hard-boiled 
eggs, a boiled potato, 24 big olives and a head of let- 
tuce. Make the French dressing and incorporate the 
anchovies, which have been mashed to a paste, with 
it. Line the salad bowl with the lettuce and put the 
various ingredients, all cut into dice, into it. Season 
with salt and paprika, sprinkle lightly with sherry, 
about a quarter of a cupful, and turn the dressing 
over. Toss all together before serving. 



EAST INDIA SALAD 

Work 2 ten-cent cream cheeses until smooth; 
moisten with milk and cream in equal parts. Add 
one-half cupful grated young American cheese, 1 cup- 
ful cream whipped; one-half tablespoonful granu- 
lated gelatine soaked in 1 tablespoonful cold water 
and dissolved in 1 tablespoonful hot water. Season 
highly with salt and paprika and turn into a border 
mould. Remove from mould and fill center with let- 
tuce leaves dressed with pineapple and grape-fruit 
wedges. With curry dressing. (See p. 29.) 



32 

HAM SALAD 

Ham, 1 cupful, diced. Oil, 4 teaspoonfuls. 

Cabbage, 1 cupful, shredd- Vinegar. 

ed. Garnish with olives and 
Cucumber pickle and but- Spanish red peppers. 

ton onion, chopped fine. 

Cold boiled ham furnished the basis for a tasty 
luncheon or supper salad. Dice the ham and to a cup- 
ful of it allow the same amount of shredded white 
cabbage, a small cucumber pickle and a pickled but- 
ton onion, both chopped fine. Make a border center 
and sprinkle with the minced pickle. Dress with oil 
and vinegar and garnish with olives and Spanish red 
peppers. Celery, green peppers, apples and a slice of 
onion cut up together make an appetizing dinner salad. 
Garnish it with radishes and dress with oil and vine- 
gar and a dash of paprika. Another novelty is made 
of pimentos and cold boiled string beans mixed. 

A DELICIOUS SALAD 
Remove pulp from 2 grape-fruit. Make a lemon 
jelly of one-half boxful of Knox gelatine, soaked in 
i cupful of cold water, add i pint boiling water, one- 
half cupful sugar, juice of 2 lemons, a bit of grated 
lemon-rind. When the jelly begins to harden put in 
a ring mould with the pulp of grape-fruit. Cut in 
small pieces i bunch celery, i can pineapple, and with 
lettuce and mayonnaise dressing put in center of ring 
when mould is turned out. 

AN ODD SALAD 

Cut crisp, tender celery into small pieces and mix 
with coarsely chopped peanuts; let the mixture stand 
for a time in a dressing of salad oil and lemon- juice : 
then fill into green pepper cases and place on lettuce 
leaves and cover with mayonnaise. 



33 

MARSHMALLOW AND PINEAPPLE SALAD 
(M. R. J.) 

Marshmallows, ^ lb., cut Pineapples, 1 can, cut in 
in pieces. pieces. 

Pecans, J^ lb. 

Cut marshmallows in small pieces ; soak in juice of 
pineapple for several hours or all night. Cut pine- 
apple into small pieces and pecan nuts into halves. 
Drain pineapple and marshmallows dry. Serve with 
marshmallow and pineapple dressing. (See p. 29.) 

FRUIT JELLY SALAD 

Slice tart apples, oranges, pineapple and celery in 
after-dinner coffee cups. Fill with sour lemon jelly, 
colored with the red coloring found in the gelatine. 
When perfectly firm, turn out on lettuce leaves, press 
half a blanched English walnut on the top and serve 
with a spoonful of stiff mayonnaise made with plenty 
of whipped cream. 

FRUIT SALAD 

One cupful of cream cheese, 1 teaspoonful of 
lemon-juice, salt, 8 large dates, 4 figs, lettuce, whipped 
cream, one-half cupful of blanched almonds, mayon- 
naise dressing. To the cream cheese, add the lemon- 
juice and a pinch of salt and beat thoroughly. Re- 
move the stones from the dates and add the figs. Mix 
the almonds with the figs and dates, chopping all to a 
smooth paste. Add to the cheese mixture, shape into 
balls, place on lettuce leaves and serve with mayon- 
naise dressing mixed with an equal quantity of 
whipped cream. 

Half of a Bartlett pear with an English walnut 
above makes a good salad. French dressing with a 
bit of Worcestershire added; or lay balls of cream 
cheese above with the walnut on it. 



34 

BREAD, SANDWICHES, BREAKFAST AND 
TEA CAKES 



ROLLED CHEESE SANDWICHES 
(a la Frauschen) 

Cut crust off fresh bread, spread with cream cheese 
and butter creamed together. Cut thin slice, roll, put 
in damp towel on ice till chilled. Then toast. Serve 
with salad or soup. 

FILLING FOR SANDWICHES 
(a la Kate Harkness) 

Cream, 2 tablespoonfuls, Onion juice, 1 drop. 

butter. A speck of raw mustard. 

Chopped capers, 2 tea- Paprika. 

spoonfuls, stirred in. Lemon juice (little). 
Stuffed olives, 2 teaspoon- 

fuls, chopped. 

Spread on very thin bread. 



FIG SANDWICHES 

Cut brown bread in thin slices and spread with the 
following mixture: Boil together 

Water, 1 cupful. Brown sugar, 34 cupful. 

Lemons, J4. Figs, Y\ lb. 

Seeded raisins, % lb. 

Simmer till soft ; add teaspoonful vanilla ; beat to a 
smooth paste and spread on bread. 

Alternate slices of brown and white bread, buttered 
and pressed closely together and cut transversely, 
make attractive sandwiches. 



35 

HOME-MADE PATE DE FOIE GRAS FOR 
SANDWICHES 

Calves' liver, 1, boiled and Cloves, 1 teaspoonful. 

grated fine. Nutmeg, y 2 teaspoonful. 

Melted butter, 2 cupfuls. Salt, to taste. 

Worcestershire sauce, 2 Onions, a little, grated in. 

tablespoonfuls. Boiling water, 1 cupful. 

Black pepper, f£ table- Calves' tongue, 1, boiled, 

spoonful, scant. cut fine. 

Red pepper or paprika, y Mushrooms, 1 can, cooked, 

tablespoonful, scant. and cut fine. 

Chop and mix all together. Put in a bowl and place 
on ice. Delicious for sandwiches. 

BREAD 
(a la Mrs. H. T. B.) 

Milk, 1 pt, cold boiled. Butter, 1 tablespoonful. 

Compressed yeast, y 2 cake. Flour, enough to thicken. 
Sugar, 1 tablespoonful. 

Let stand over night at 50°. Mix with flour in the 
morning as stiff as you please. Raise till just right. 
Mould and put in pans. Raise three-quarters or one 
hour in warm place. Bake slowly for an hour. 

GRAHAM BREAD (LIKE BROWN BREAD) 
(Mrs. Chester Ballou Smith) 

Graham flour, 2 cupfuls. Salt, 1 teaspoonful. 

Molasses, y 2 cupful. Milk (sweet), 1 cupful. 

Soda, 1 teaspoonful. 

Bake in moderate oven like gingerbread. 

BROWN BREAD 
(a la Porter at Camp) 

Bread-crumbs, 1 pt., soaked Soda, 2 teaspoonfuls. 

in boiling water. Salt, 2 teaspoonfuls. 

Sour milk, 1 cupful. Corn meal, enough for a 
Eggs, 2. thick batter. 

Molasses, y 2 pt. (good). 
Steam for 5 hours. 



36 

BROWN BREAD 
(Mrs. H. T. B.) 

Indian meal, J4 cupful. Molasses, l / 2 cupful. 

Rye meal, J£ cupful. Soda, 1 generous teaspoon- 
Graham meal, J4 cupful, or ful. 
Educator bran, % cupful. 

Milk to make it of right consistency ; steam. 

BAKED BROWN BREAD 
(Miss Anna Ballou) 

Sour milk, V/2. cupfuls. Rye meal, y 2 cupful. 

Molasses, % cupful. Corn meal, J4 cupful. 

Saleratus, dissolved in 

water and added to 

molasses. 

Put in buttered tin. Pour water into molasses cup 
and pour over top. Bake 1 hour in hot oven. 

HOP YEAST 

Hops, 1 cupful, steeped in Sugar, y 2 cupful. 
Water, 2 qts. Salt, J^ cupful. 

Potatoes, 4, grated and 
strained. 

Boil together. When lukewarm, add a cupful of 
yeast and let it rise. 

GRAHAM POP OVERS 

Nice tea cakes baked in cups. 
Milk, 1 pt. Eggs, 3. 

Graham flour, 1 pt. A little salt. 

RYE DROP CAKES 

Rye meal, 1 pt. Salt. 

Eggs, 2. Molasses, 3 spoonfuls. 

Soda, 1 teaspoonful. Milk, enough for a batter. 

Fry in boiling lard, like doughnuts, only very small. 



37 

MY MOTHER'S BUNS 

One quart milk, scalded and cooled. At night dis- 
solve i compressed yeast-cake and i full cup sugar. 
Add flour enough to make a dough, not as stiff as 
bread. Add salt and raise all night thoroughly. Next 
morning add I more cupful of sugar and i cupful 
melted butter, raisins and a shake of nutmeg. Mix 
with the hand thoroughly, cut, form, and put in pans 
and raise. Bake in a slow oven three-quarters of an 
hour. 

NUT OR NOISETTE BREAD 

Compressed yeast, 1 cake. Shortening, 1 tablespoon- 
Water, x / 2 cupful, luke- ful. 

warm. Molasses, 2 tablespoonfuls. 

Milk, 1 cupful, scalded and Noisettes or filbert meats, 

cooled. 1 cupful. 

White flour, Yz cupful. 

Entire wheat flour as needed for dough. Mix in 
morning and let it rise till light. Knead; put in tins 
and let rise again before baking. 

NUT AND RAISIN BREAD 
(Mrs. Albert G. Harkness) 

Entire wheat flour, 2 cup- Powdered sugar, 54 cupful. 

fuls. Salt, 1 teaspoonful. 

Pastry flour, 1 cupful. Baking powder, 2 teaspoon- 

fuls. 
Mix together well. 

Sour milk, 2 cupfuls. Soda, 1 teaspoonful. 



Add to mixture 
Sultana raisins, 1 

Bake in 2 loaves 



Sultana raisins, 1 cupful. Chopped nut meats, 1 cup- 

ful. 



38 

GRAHAM CRACKERS 
(Mrs. Wilder) 
Graham flour, 1 pt. Sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls. 

Rub in a piece of lard as Soda, y 2 teaspoonful. 

large as a hen's egg. Cream tartar, 1 teaspoon- 

Salt, a pinch. fill. 

Wet with sweet milk and roll them thin. 

RHODE ISLAND JOHNNY CAKE 
/ (Sarah Kane) 

Indian meal, jf cupful/ Salt, J4 teaspoonful. 
heated. Sugar, 1 tablespoonful. 

Milk, Yi cupful. 

Scald meal thoroughly with (bubbling) boiling 
water and leave rather stiff. Add just before frying 
one-half cupful milk. Fry in butter or beef suet or 
drippings. Have griddle very hot. 

CORN MUFFINS 
(Mrs. E. W. Mason) 

Meal, 1 scant cupful, fine. Butter, small piece. 

Flour, 1 cupful. Baking powder, 3 teaspoon- 
Milk, 1 cupful. fuls. 

Sugar, 54 cupful. Eggs, 3. 

Cream butter and sugar together. Beat the eggs 
very light, separately, then sift the baking powder into 
the flour and add the milk last. Bake 20 minutes. 
Sometimes a little sour milk is needed. 

CORN BREAD 

Corn meal, % cupful. Salt, % teaspoonful. 

Flour, J4 cupful. Butter, 1 tablespoonful, 

Milk, 1 cupful. melted. 

Eggs, 1. Baking powder, 1 tea- 

Sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls. spoonful. 

Heat milk and pour over the meal and flour, into 

which the baking powder has been sifted with sugar 

and salt. 



39 

INDIAN BANNOCK (Without Soda) 
(E. B. B.) 

Corn meal, 1 cupful. Salt, 1 teaspoonful. 

Sugar, 1 teaspoonful. Milk, 1 pt., boiling. 

When cool, add two eggs, beaten separately. Bake 
in a shallow earthen dish in a very hot oven, and serve 
in the dish, like a pudding. 



CORN PONE 

Indian meal, 1 cupful. Eggs, 3. 

Rice or hominy, 1 cupful, Salt, a little, 
previously boiled. Butter, a little. 

Milk, 1 large pt., scalded, 
and poured on to In- 
dian meal. 

Mix all together and beat thoroughly. Bake half 
an hour in a well-buttered pie-plate and serve in same. 



CORN GRIDDLE-CAKES 

Sweet corn, 12 ears, grated. Salt and pepper and flour, 
Eggs, 2. enough for a batter. 

Milk, 1 cupful. 



SOUR CREAM WAFFLES 

Flour, 1 cupful. Eggs, 6. 

Sour cream, V/2 cupfuls, Lemon peel or a few drops 
thick. rum or gin. 

Yolks of eggs, cream, flour and lemon mixed slow- 
ly together. Add the whites, beaten stiff, with the 
rum and bake quickly in waffle-iron over a quick fire. 
Scatter sugar over while hot. 



40 

WAFFLES 
(Mrs. Harrison) 

Flour, 1 qt. Salt. 

Milk, 1 qt. Baking powder, 1 large 

Eggs, 6. tablespoonful. 

Melted butter, 1 very large 
cupful. 

Beat flour, milk and butter together and add eggs, 
beaten separately, very light. Just before baking, add 
baking powder dissolved in a little water. 

PFANNEKUCHEN 

Eggs, S. Flour, 1 dessertspoonful. 

Milk, 1 small cupful. Salt. 

Take i egg and stir (not beat) the flour all in. 
Then add the other eggs, salt and milk. Cook on a 
griddle with a great deal of butter and turn over on a 
tin. Can be eaten with sugar or preserves. 

POTATO PUFFS 

Take three dishes. In one, 20 raw potatoes, grated. 
In the second, 8 hot boiled potatoes, through a sieve. 
Through the latter stir 4 eggs, butter the size of an 
egg. In the third, 4 teaspoonfuls flour, x /\ liter sour 
cream, well beaten (about 1 cupful). Just before 
baking, mix all together, salt to taste and cook, in lard 
in the spider, like griddle-cakes. To be eaten with 
compote. 

DOUGHNUTS 
(a la Porter) 

Sugar, 1 cupful. Milk, V/ 2 cupfuls. 

Eggs, 3. Nutmeg, a little. 

Flour with Horsford's or 1 heaping teaspoonful 
cream tartar and 1 of soda. 



41 



CHOICE OF DOUGHNUT RECEIPTS 



Sweet Milk and 

Sugar, 1 cupful. 
Sweet Milk, 1 cupful. 
Eggs, 2. 

Salt, V& teaspoonful. 
Nutmeg, a little, grated. 
Flour, about 4 cupfuls. 
Baking powder, 2 heaping 

teaspoonfuls, sifted in 

flour. 

Make soft batter in both 



Sour Milk 
Sugar, lVi cupfuls. 
Sour milk, iy 2 cupfuls. 
Eggs, 2. 

Salt, J /4 teaspoonful. 
Nutmeg, a little, grated. 
Flour, about 4 cupfuls. 
Dissolve 1 teaspoonful 
soda in the sour milk. 

cases; roll out, cut and 



fry. 



42 
PLAIN, SWEET CAKES 



OATMEAL WAFERS OR CRISPS 
(M. B. Campbell) 

Butter, Yi cupful. Baking powder, 2 tea- 

Sugar, 1 cupful. spoonfuls. 

Eggs, 2. Salt, y 2 teaspoonful. 

Oatmeal, 2J4 c u p f u Is 
(Quaker Oats). 

Drop by teaspoonfuls on a buttered sheet. Sift 
all flour out of oatmeal. 



RICE MACAROONS 
(Mabel) 

Eggs, 2. Vanilla, 1 teaspoonful. 

Granulated sugar, % cup- Melted butter, 1 teaspoon- 
ful. ful. 

Baking powder, 2 level Flaked rice, 3yi cupfuls. 
teaspoonfuls. 

Drop from spoon. Bake on paper. 

MY MOTHER'S RUSK 
(Mrs. Edward Harris) 

Butter, yi cupful. Allspice. 

Sugar, 1 cupful. Nutmeg. 

Dough, iy 2 cupfuls. Cinnamon. 

Eggs, 3. Raisins if desired. 

Cream butter and sugar thoroughly. Mix with 
dough for 15 minutes, or until perfectly smooth. Add 
eggs and spice and let rise. Bake in a cake-pan. 
With or without raisins. 



43 

PEANUT WAFERS 
(M. R. Smith) 

Butter, y 2 cupful, stirred Flour, 2 scant cupfuls, into 
to a cream. which has been sifted 

Sugar, 1 cupful, add Baking powder, 1 tea- 

Milk, f£ cupful. spoonful. 

Vanilla, 1 teaspoonful. 

Spread over the bottom of a baking-pan and 
sprinkle with chopped peanuts. 



OLD-FASHIONED SPICED BREAD CAKE 

Butter, Y3 cupful, creamed. Raisins, J4 cupful. 

Sugar, V/ 2 cupfuls. Add Currants, y 2 cupful. 

Eggs, yolks of 3, and beat Baking soda, y 2 teaspoon- 
all together. Add ful, dissolved in 

Bread dough, 1 pt., that has Sweet milk, 2 tablespoon- 
risen once. Add fuls, and 

Nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful, Eggs, whites of 3, well 

grated. beaten. 

Allspice and cinnamon, 
equal quantities. 

Turn in greased bread-pans, let rise, and bake for 

45 minutes. When cold, ice in fancy scrollwork 
through a fluting tube. 



SEED WAFERS OR COOKIES 
(As Taught by Bridget Giblin) 

Sugar, y 2 lb., or 1 cupful. Eggs, 4, beaten light. 
Butter, Vi lb., creamed, y 2 Flour, enough for soft 
cupful. dough. Roll out and 

cut. 

Brush over with white of an egg, and sift sugar 
over. Add i ounce caraway seeds if desired. 



44 



PHILADELPHIA CINNAMON BUN 

Milk, 1 cupful, scalded. Sugar, 1 tablespoonful. 

Yeast-cake, 1. Salt, 1 teaspoonful. 

Bread-flour. , Cinnamon. 

Eggs, 3. Currants. 
Butter, r /i cupful. 

Dissolve the yeast-cake in a half cupful of warm 
water, and beat in enough flour to make a stiff dough, 
knead a moment, cut a gash in the top, and drop it, 
gash up, into a pitcher of warm water. In a few 
minutes this will come to the surface, when it is ready 
for use. Put 4 cupfuls of flour into a bowl, add the 
milk, the butter, melted, the sugar, salt, eggs, well 
beaten, and the yeast-biscuit. Work together till well 
blended, adding more flour, if necessary, to make a 
soft dough. Cover and let rise, till very light, about 
3 hours ; then roll out in an oblong sheet a half inch in 
thickness, spread lightly with soft butter, dredge 
thickly with about a cupful of sugar, dust with cinna- 
mon, sprinkle on a few currants and roll up like jelly 
roll. Cut crosswise in slices, three inches thick, and 
crowd them, cut side up, into small, deep, round pans ; 
let rise and bake about 35 minutes in a moderate oven. 
As the sugar melts and forms a syrup, they must be 
watched closely lest they burn. To serve, cut in 
slices or pull apart with a fork. 



MOLASSES GINGERBREAD 

Sugar, y 2 cupful. Eggs, a, broken in whole. 

Ginger, 1 dessertspoonful. Sour cream, J4 cupful, into 
Molasses, }4 cupful, black. which is stirred 

Butter, y 2 cupful, melted, Soda, 1 teaspoonful. 

and added the last Flour, lYi to lyi cupfuls. 

thing. 



45 

GINGER SNAPS 
(A. M. Harris) 

Molasses, 1 cupful. Pearlash, 1 teaspoonful. 
Sugar, y 2 cupful. (Soda is modern name.) 

Butter or lard, J4 cupful. Ginger, 1 tablespoonful. 

Warm water, y 2 cupful, the Salt, 1 teaspoonful, if lard 
lard melted in it. is used. 

Put molasses, sugar and ginger together, rub pearl- 
ash fine and stir into them. When it foams, add 
water and lard, then flour enough for a stiff dough. 
Knead well, roll into thin sheets and bake in moderate 
oven. 

FAIRY GINGERBREAD 

Butter, Yz cupful. Flour, ^4 cupful. 

Sugar, Y3 cupful. Baking powder, 1 salt- 
Molasses, Yz cupful. spoonful. 

Eggs, 1. Ginger, 1 teaspoonful. 

BLUEBERRY CAKE 
(L. B. C) 

Bread-flour, V/z cupfuls. Baking powder, 1 tea- 

Sugar, 1 cupful. spoonful. 

Butter, y 2 cupful. Milk, fa cupful. 

Berries, 1 large cupful. Eggs, 3. 

Salt, a pinch. 

Put butter, melted, in last. Sift part of flour over 
the berries. 

NUT SQUARES 

Eggs, 1. Walnut or 

Sugar (brown), 1 cupful. Pecan or 

Salt, a pinch. Butternut meat, 1 cupful, 

Baking powder, a pinch. chopped. 

Spread not more than one-quarter inch thick on a 
shallow greased pan. Bake 20 minutes in a slow 
oven. As soon as cold, cut in long, narrow strips. 



46 

FRENCH COOKIES 
(Chef at Molechunkamunk) 

Butter, 1 lb., best, or 2 Eggs, 4, beaten. 

cupfuls, or Vanilla, 3 teaspoonfuls. 

Shortening, 1 pt, best., or Pastry flour, 3 cupfuls. 

2 cupfuls. Baking powder, 3 teaspoon- 
Powdered sugar, 1 lb., or fuls. 

i z /3 cupfuls. 

Have a dredge filled with powdered sugar, cinna- 
mon and nutmeg, and when the cookies come from the 
oven dip a brush in melted butter and go over them 
and sprinkle on sugar and spice. Cool and put in jar 
alone. 

JUMBLES 
(Mrs. Van Ness) 

Sugar, 54 lb. Flour, Vi a handful. Rub 

Butter, 54 lb., creamed over moulding board 

very creamy. and then rub to one 

Flour, 1 cupful. side. 

Nutmegs, 1, grated. Dough, size of a hickory 

Eggs, 3, whites beaten stiff nut. Roll between fin- 

and 1 yolk after an- gers and under hand, 

other dropped in. joining ends to form 

Salt. ring. 

Sugar, a handful. 

Put in dripping pan (without buttering). Bake io 
minutes. Do not keep with other cake. Oven must 
be moderate. 

BROWNIES 
(Anita's Rule) 

Sugar, 1 cupful. Chopped nuts, y 2 cupful. 

Butter, Yi cupful, creamed. Salt, a pinch. 
Eggs, 2, unbeaten. Vanilla, 54 teaspoonful. 

Flour, y 2 cupful. Baker's chocolate, V/2 

squares, melted. 

Chop nuts in halves. Spread in a large tin or but- 
tered paper. Cook 15 or 20 minutes. 



47 

CRULLERS 

Eggs, 4. Milk, 1 small cupful. 

Sugar, 1 small cupful. Rum, y 2 small cupful. 

Butter, 1 small cupful. Flour, enough to roll. 

Yolks of 4 eggs, sugar, flour and cool melted but- 
ter. Milk added gradually. Lastly the whites. 
Roll out and cut with jagging-iron. Cook slowly in 
lard. Sugar and cinnamon scattered over. 



48 
FANCY CAKES 



ANGEL CAKE 

Eggs, whites of 8 large, or Cream tartar, }4 teaspoon- 
9 small. ful, scant. 

Granulated sugar, 1% cup- Salt, a pinch, added to 
fuls. eggs before whipping. 

Flour, 1 cupful. 

Flavor to taste. Sift flour before measuring, then 
sift five times. Sift sugar, whip eggs to a foam and 
add cream tartar. When eggs are well beaten, add 
sugar, then flavoring and lastly the flour. Bake in 
pans which have never been greased, but floured. 
Oven must be moderate. Requires 20 to 40 minutes 
to bake, according to temperature of oven. 



RECEIPT FOR SCRIPTURE CAKE 

Four and a half cups of 1 Kings 4: 22. 

One and a half cups of Judges, 5 : 25 (last clause). 

Two cups of Jeremiah, 6:20 (sugar). 

Two cups of 1 Samuel, 30:12 (raisins). 

Two cups of Nahum, 3: 12. 

One cup of Numbers, 17: 8. 

Two teaspoonfuls of 1 Samuel, 14:25. 

Season to taste of 1 1 Chronicles, 9 : 9. 

Six of Jeremiah, 17: 11. 

A pinch of Leviticus, 2: 13. 

Half a cup of Judges, 4: 19 (last clause). 

Two teaspoonfuls of Amos, 4: 5 (baking powder). 

Follow Solomon's prescription for making a good 
boy, Proverbs, 23: 14, and you will have a good cake. 



49 



GOLD CAKE 

Butter, y 2 cupful. Cream tartar, 1 teaspoon- 

Sugar, V/ 2 cupfuls, assimi- ful. 

lated. Soda, y 2 teaspoonful. 

Flour, 2 cupfuls. Lemon, y 2 teaspoonful. 

Eggs, 1, yolks of 4. Milk, y 2 cupful. 

Vanilla. 



SILVER CAKE 

Make the same as Gold Cake, only use the whites 
of 4 eggs. 

NUMBER CAKE 

Butter, 1 cupful. Soda or 

Sugar, 3 cupfuls. Nutmeg or 

Eggs, 5. Lemon, y 2 teaspoonful, 
Milk, 1 cupful. juice and rind. 

Cream tartar, 1 teaspoon- St. Louis flour, 3 cupfuls, 
ful. or 

Pastry flour. 

Nice with walnut-meats. 



ORANGE CAKE 
(a la H. Harris) 

Sugar, 2 cupfuls. Soda, y 2 teaspoonful. 

Flour, 2 cupfuls. Oranges, juice and grated 

Eggs, yolks of 5, whites rind of 1. 

of 2. Salt. 

Cream tartar, 1 teaspoon- 
ful. 

To be baked thin in three tins, and piled. 



FILLING FOR ORANGE CAKE 

Beat the whites of 3 eggs to a froth ; add sugar and 
the grated rind of 1 orange. 



so 

SPONGE CAKE 
(Mrs. Sherry) 

Eggs, 3, beaten 10 minutes. Flour, ll cupful. 

Sugar, V/i cupfuls, beaten Soda, y 2 teaspoonful, in 

10 minutes more. Boiling water, Yt cupful. 

Cream tartar, 1 teaspoon- Flour, 1 cupful; flavor to 

ful, in taste. 

Stir abundantly. Just before it is done, sprinkle a 
little sugar on top of cake. 

APPLE TARTS 

Butter, Y2 lb. Flour, 1 lb.; mix with 

water to make a very 
light paste. 

Roll out the paste flat, not too thin. Fill out the 
tarts with sliced apples before baking. Sugar them 
when cold, and put some apply jelly on top. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 
(Mrs. Alfred Reed) 

Butter, Yl cupful. Flour, V/ 2 cupfuls, mixed 
Sugar, V/ 2 cupfuls, rubbed with 

for an hour or three- Cream' tartar, Ys teaspoon- 
quarters, ful. 

Eggs, 6, beaten separately, Vanilla, 1 teaspoonful. 

then add Chocolate (Baker's sweet- 
Milk, Yz cupful, mixed with ened), 1 teacupful, 
Soda, Vi teaspoonful. grated. 

Icing 

Milk, 1 tablespoonful (or Chocolate, 2 bars. 

more). Butter, l / 2 teaspoonful. 

Water, 1 tablespoonful. Vanilla, 1 teaspoonful. 
Sugar, y 2 cupful. 

Cake should be baked in square tins and must be 
broken. 



51 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 
(a la Tante Eunice) 

Butter, 1 cupful. Eggs, 4. 

Sugar, 2 cupfuls, assimi- Milk, ^ cupful. 

lated. Soda, V* teaspoonful. 

Flour, 3 cupfuls. 

To be baked thin to pile. 

Filling 

Chocolate, % lb. Milk, 1 cupful. 

Eggs, yolks of 2. Sugar, 1 cupful. 

Either boil the milk and pour it on the others, or put 
all in a dish and simmer on the tea-kettle. 

COFFEE CAKE 
(Aunt Eunice) 

To be made when hens refuse to lay. 

Sugar, 1 cupful. Soda, 1 teaspoonful. 

Butter, 1 cupful, assimi- Allspice, 1 teaspoonful. 

lated. Cinnamon, 1 tablespoonful. 

Molasses, 1 cupful. Cloves, y 2 teaspoonful. 

Coffee, 1 cupful, very cold. Pastry flour, enough to 
Raisins, 1 lb., chopped. make a batter. 

FRUIT CAKE 
(Mrs. Hart) 

Flour, 1 lb. Citron, 1 lb. 

Butter, 1 lb. Nutmegs, 3. 

Currants, 2 lbs. Mace, J4 teaspoonful. 

Sugar, 1 lb. Brandy, 3 wine-glasses. 

Eggs, 1 lb. Cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful. 
Raisins, 2 lbs. 

Cut citron in thin slices and put in a layer of cake 
and a layer of citron until it is all used. Beat yolks 
and whites of eggs separately. 



52 

ALMOND JUMBLES 

Eggs, 1. Flour, 3 cupfuls, pastry. 

Sugar, \$i cupfuls, granu- Lemon, grated rind of 1. 

lated, or 2 cupfuls, Almonds, blanched and 
powdered. chopped. 

Butter, 1 cupful. 

Mould together thoroughly. Roll out thin. Brush 
them over with a beaten egg and scatter chopped 
blanched almonds over them. Bake in a greased tin. 

LADY BALTIMORE 
(H. S. Campbell) 

Butter, 1 cupful. Eggs, whites of 6. 

Sugar, 3 cupfuls. Baking powder, Z level tea- 
Flour, 3yi cupfuls. spoonfuls. 

Sweet milk, 1 cupful. Rose water, 1 teaspoonful. 

Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually, beating 
continuously; then the milk and the flavoring; next 
the flour, into which the baking powder has been 
mixed, and, lastly, the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs, 
which should be folded lightly in the dough. Bake in 
three large layer-cake pans, in an oven that is hotter 
than it would have to be for loaf cake. 

Filling 

Sugar, 3 cupfuls, dissolved Chopped raisins, 1 cupful. 

in Chopped nut meats, 1 cup- 
Boiling water, 1 cupful, ful (pecans preferred). 

cooked till it threads. Figs, 5, cut in very thin 
Eggs, whites of 3, beaten strips. 

stiffly. Stir constantly. 

With this, cover both the top and sides of the cake. 



53 
PASTRY 



GREEN TOMATO MINCE-MEAT 
(Mrs. Charles Haskell) 

Green tomatoes, 4 qts., Suet, 1 large cupful, 
chopped fine, drained chopped, 

and covered with Cider vinegar, 1 large cup- 
Cold water. Cook 30 min- ful, 

utes. Drain well. Add Cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful. 

Brown sugar, 2 lbs. Cloves, 1 teaspoonful. 

Seedless raisins, 1 lb. Nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful. 

Citron, i/i lb., chopped. Cold coffee and sherry, 

enough to moisten. 

Use meat grinder. Cook until thoroughly done, 
finally adding cinnamon, clove and nutmeg. Add the 
coffee and sherry when cold. 

APPLE TARTS 
Butter, 1 cupful. Pastry flour, 4 cupfuls. 

Mix with water and make a very light paste. Roll 
out flat, not too thin; fill the tarts with sliced apple, 
sugared. When cold, put apple jelly on top. 

LEMON PIE (Delicious) 
(A. B. Coit) 

Eggs, 6, yolks and whites. Sugar, iyi cupfuls. 

Cream, 4 tablespoonfuls. Lemons, 2, juice and 
Butter, 4 tablespoonfuls, grated rind of 2 large 

melted. lemons. 

Mix egg-yolks, sugar and melted butter thoroughly. 
Add lemon-juice and grated rind and cream, and, last- 
ly, fold in the well-beaten whites and bake in a deep 
pie-plate of medium size. 



54 

APPLE JONATHAN 
(Miss Campbell's Mary) 

Flour, V/ 2 cupfuls. Salt, a little. 

Lard, 1 big tablespoonful, Sugar, a little. 

rubbed through flour Ice water, enough to 

with hands. moisten. 

Butter, y 2 cupful, cut in 

with knife through 

flour and lard. 

This makes the crust. 

Molasses, 1J4 cupfuls, Nutmeg, a little. 

scant. Cinnamon, a little. 

Sugar, y 2 cupful. Water, 1 tablespoonful. 

Roll out crust rather thick and line a very deep tin, 
cutting a round out of the dough in the bottom of 
pan. Fill full with sliced apples and pour over them 
the molasses, sugar, nutmeg, cinnamon and water, 
mixed. Cover with top crust. Set pan into another 
pan filled with water. Cover. Bake slowly 5 hours. 
Uncover and bake one-half hour longer. 



OLD-FASHIONED FRIED APPLE PIES 
(Mrs. H. T. Brown) 

Flour, 2 cupfuls. Butter, 1 tablespoonful. 

Baking powder, 2 teaspoon- Sugar, 2 tablespoonful s. 

fuls, Salt, a little. 

Lard, 1 tablespoonful. Eggs, 1. 

Cut in shortening; roll out on board; cut with a 
saucer; fill with apple prepared as below; wet edges; 
fold over ; pinch together and fry in deep lard. 



55 



FILLING FOR PIES 

Evaporated apple, i package, washed, picked over 
and soaked over night in cold water. In the morn- 
ing, drain well, put in double boiler with brown sugar 
and cook 2 or 3 hours. Take off, and when cool add 
salt, cinnamon, rose water, lemon, juice and grated 
rind; orange, juice and grated rind, to taste. Put a 
good teaspoonful in each pie, with butter size of a pea. 

PUMPKIN PIE 

Stewed pumpkin or canned Sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls. 

Hubbard squash, 8 Ginger, J4 teaspoonful. 

cupfuls. Cinnamon, J/£ teaspoonful. 

Rich milk, 1 cupful. Salt, % teaspoonful. 

Eggs, 1. Brandy, 1 teaspoonful. 
Flour, 01 tablespoonful. 

After filling the pie, take 4 or 5 tablespoonfuls of 
cold milk and distribute carefully over top of pie. 



56 
PUDDINGS 



DELMONICO PUDDING 

Milk, 1 qt. Sugar, 5 tablespoonfuls. 

Eggs, 5. Salt. 

Corn starch, 3 tablespoon- 
fuls. 

Save i cupful of milk and scald the rest. Stir the 
yolks of the eggs, the corn starch and the sugar with 
the cold milk ; add salt, and pour into the boiling milk. 
Stir until it is cooked. 

Frosting 

Whites of eggs. Vanilla, y 2 teaspoonful. 

Sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls. 

Bake the cake until the top is stiff. Frost with the 
eggs, sugar and vanilla. 

FRENCH PUDDING 
(a la M. G. Metcalf) 

Milk, 1 qt., boiled and Eggs, 2, beaten, and with 

thickened with milk thrown over. 

Flour, 1 tablespoonful. Vanilla. 

Sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls. Brown sugar, 1 cupful. 

Set the brown sugar in a slow oven till it gets a 
good brown. Sprinkle a little in a tin pudding-mould, 
turn in the pudding and sprinkle a little more on the 
top. Set the mould in a deep pan of cold water and 
put it in a slow oven for an hour and a half ; then set 
it away to stiffen. 

Sauce 
Burnt sugar. Use the re- Cream, y 2 tumblerful, 
mainder, dissolved in 

Turn it over the pudding just before sending it to 
the table. The pudding should be made the day be- 
fore use. 



57 

COLD RICE PUDDING 

Rice, Yt cupful, boiled in Butter, size of an egg. 

Milk, 1 pt. When done, Granulated sugar, ^ cup- 
remove, and add ful. 

Cold milk, 1 pt. Lemons, grated rind of Y*. 

Eggs, yolks of 3, well Salt, J4 teaspoonful. 

beaten. Seeded raisins, J4 cupful. 

Put into medium-hot oven and bake, watching the 
mixture carefully, so as to give the raisins a stir with 
the spoon, in order to better distribute them through 
the mixture; then leave a little longer to finish bak- 
ing. Do not let the pudding stay in the oven, trust- 
ing to luck that it will come out all right. Watch it 
and take it out as soon as the custard sets and it is a 
pretty bronze on top. 

Frosting 

Eggs, whites of 3, whipped Confectioner's sugar, and 
with a sufficient amount Lemon juice, to flavor, 
of 

Put this mixture on top of the pudding. Let it 
stand in the oven long enough to blister pretty brown 
spots on top, but not long enough to cake the frosting 
at all. The great charm of this pudding lies in its 
being properly baked, so that the whole is a soft cus- 
tard with a delicious, soft white frosting. 

RICE PUDDING 

Milk, 3 pts. Sugar, 3 tablespobnfuls. 

Rice, Z x / 2 tablespoonfuls. Salt, a little. 

Butter the dish well. Wash rice. Pour boiling 
water three times over it and drain off. Then put in 
pudding-dish and pour the milk, boiling, over it. Add 
sugar and salt. Bake 2 hours in a slow oven, stirring 
occasionally. 



58 

CREAM OF RICE PUDDING (Iced) 

Milk, 1 qt. Vanilla, 1 teaspoonful. 

Rice, Yz cupful. Cream, }4 pt, whipped. 

Salt, to taste. Candied cherries, y 2 lb. 
Sugar, 1 cupful. 

Cook rice, salted, in milk, till soft. Add sugar and 
vanilla while cooling. When cold, add whipped 
cream and cherries. Put in ice-box and chill thor- 
oughly. 



INDIAN PUDDING 
(Kate Flannigan) 

Milk, W/z pts. Molasses, 1 cupful, scant. 

Indian meal, 1 cupful, Salt, pinch, 
white. 

Scald milk in double boiler. Add meal gradually. 
Add molasses and put on back of range. Cook slow- 
ly 15 or 20 minutes. Pour into a buttered pudding 
dish and set away to cool. Let it get cold. Then pour 
over the top 1 pint cold milk. Do not mix, but let it 
trickle down through. Leave for a time. Put in 
the oven and bake very slowly for hours. 

INDIAN PUDDING 

Yellow corn-meal, 2 table- Molasses, 1 tablespoonful. 

spoonfuls. Brown sugar, 1 cupful. 

White corn-meal, 1 table- Eggs, 2. 

spoonful. Salt. 
Miilk, 1 qt., rich. 

Scald milk. Mix the two meals with a little cold 
milk before adding to hot milk. Cook 10 minutes, 
stirring constantly. Cool and add molasses, sugar, 
salt and 2 well-beaten eggs. Bake in slow oven for 
4 or 5 hours. 



59 

FRUIT CARROT PUDDING 

Suet, 1 cup, creamed; add Raisins, 1 cupful, seeded 
Bread-crumbs, 2^ cupfuls, and cut. 

stale, and Currants, Y\ cupful. Dredge 
Carrots, 1, grated. with 

Eggs, yolks of 4, beaten Flour, y$ cupful, mixed 

till light. Add gradu- and sifted with 

ally Salt, \y 2 teaspoonfuls, 

Brown sugar, 1% cupfuls, Cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful, 

still beating. Nutmeg, y 2 teaspoonful, 

Lemons, grated rind of 1, Cloves, % teaspoonful, all 

added to above mix- added to other mixture. 

ture, and Eggs, whites of 4 then add- 
Vinegar, 1 tablespoonful, ed, beaten stiff. 

strong. 

Turn into a buttered mould decorated with raisins 
and citron. Cover and steam 3% hours. Serve with 
Mousselaine Sauce. 

FRENCH BLACK PUDDING 

Butter, 1/2 cupful. Eggs, 4, beaten separately. 

Sugar, y 2 cupful. Flour, y 2 cupful. 

Molasses, 1 large cupful. Soda, % teaspoonful. 
Wine, Yz wine-glass. 

Bake one-half hour, and serve with wine sauce. 

CHERRY SPONGE 

Sugar, 1 cupful. Gelatine, y 2 boxful, dis- 

Water, 1 cupful, bring to a solved in a cupful of 

boil, and add Water, in which cherry- 
Cherries, 1 qt., pitted and pits have been stewed. 

stemmed. Add. 

Simmer the first three ingredients for 10 minutes, 
then press through a colander. Add the gelatine and 
set aside to thicken. When almost ready to set, whip 
to a froth, fold in the stiffly beaten whites of 2 eggs 
and pour into individual moulds. When firm, turn 
out and decorate with cherries and cream. 



60 

MARSHMALLOW RASPBERRY FLUFF 

Cream, 1 pt. Marshmallows, J4 cupful, 
Eggs, white of 1, stiffly finely chopped. 

beaten. Sugar, to taste. 
Raspberries, V/ 2 cupfuls. 

Chill the cream and whip until thick, then fold in 
the egg, and sweeten to taste. Add the raspberries 
and marshmallows (cut in pieces) and sprinkle them 
through the cream; then arrange in a chilled serving 
dish. 

BROWN BETTY 
(Portia Smiley) 

Layer of apples cut in ir- Layer of fine bread-crumbs 

regular pieces. made of soft part of 

Layer of brown sugar. bread, dotted with 

pieces of butter. 

Repeat. A layer of sugar on top. 
Make a sauce of 

Brown sugar, y 2 cupful. Nutmeg, 54- 

Butter, y 2 cupful. Boiling water, 54 cupful. 

Cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful. 

Pour evenly over the top. Bake in a slow even 3 
hours. 



61 
DISHES FOR DESSERT 



STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 

Pastry flour, a cupfuls, Salt, ^ teaspoonful. 

mixed and sifted. Butter, % cupful, worked 
Baking powder, 4 tea- in with finger-tips. 

spoonfuls. Milk, Y\ cupful. 

Toss on a slightly floured board and divide into 
halves. Pat and roll each half separately to fit a 
Washington pie or round-layer cake tin. Put in tins 
which have been buttered, and bake in a hot oven 
from 12 to 15 minutes. 

Strawberries, 1 boxful. Sugar, 1 cupful. 

Pick over, wash, drain and hull strawberries. Cut 
in quarters, put into an earthen dish, and sprinkle 
with sugar to taste; about 1 cupful is usually re- 
quired for each boxful of strawberries and 1 boxful of 
berries is required for each shortcake. Place on back 
of range until warmed, then crush slightly. Split 
shortcake and spread cut surfaces with butter. Put 
the berries between and on top of the layers, spreading 
each time on a cut surface. Cover with whipped 
cream. 

HUCKLEBERRY DESSERT 

Stew huckleberries, sweeten, add lemon-juice or 
vinegar and pour hot over squares (3 inches) of fried 
bread. Or 

Butter a baking dish. Put in buttered bread, then 
some blueberries, a little salt and a squeeze of lemon 
and some sugar. Then more bread, etc. On top put 
slices of bread, buttered both sides. 



62 

FRUIT DESSERT 

Cut the rind of tangerines into fine straws. Boil in 
a syrup of sugar and water until tender. Pour over 
the fruit, either whole, peeled with a sharp knife or 
quartered. Serve icy-cold with stewed prunes in an- 
other glass dish. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM FOR LALLA ROOKH , 
(A. K. Sturges) 

Milk, 1 pt. Eggs, yolks of 6. 

Vanilla beans, J4. Sweet cream, 1 pt. 

Powdered sugar, y 2 lb. Jamaica rum, 2 scant gills. 

Boil the milk in a sauce-pan with the vanilla 
bean. Put in a vessel the powdered sugar and eggs, 
and with a spatula mix thoroughly for io minutes. 
Then add to the boiling milk and stir 2 minutes longer. 
Pour the whole into a sauce-pan and place on a mod- 
erate fire for 5 minutes, stirring all the time with a 
spatula and being careful not to let it boil. When 
thick like custard, take off the fire and add imme- 
diately the cream, still beating for 2 minutes more. 
Cool for one-half an hour ; strain into freezer. When 
nearly frozen, add 1 scant gill of Jamaica rum, or add 
chopped Canton ginger. 

BOILED CUSTARD 
(E. N. Rhoades) 

Eggs, 2 yolks. Salt, % teaspoonful. 

Sugar, Vi cupful. Hot milk, 2 cupfuls. 

Cornstarch, 1 teaspoonful. Vanilla, J4 teaspoonful. 

Beat eggs; add sugar, cornstarch and salt. Add to 
hot milk and cook in double boiler till thick. 

Custard with ginger in it lightly frozen makes a de- 
licious dessert. — (A. C. A. B.) 



63 

VANILLA ICE CREAM 

Condensed milk, 1 can, Vanilla, to taste, or 

Borden's Eagle brand. Strawberries, a boxful, 
Cream, 1 pt., heavy. crushed and sweetened 

Milk, 1 qt. to taste. 

Sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls. 

RASPBERRY-CURRANT ICE 

Water, 4 cupfuls. Raspberry juice, 2 /z cupful. 

Sugar, V/$ cupfuls. Currant juice, V/3 cupfuls. 

Make a syrup by boiling water and sugar 20 min- 
utes. Then cool. Pick over, mash raspberries and 
strain through double cheese-cloth. Pick over, re- 
move stems and mash currants and strain. Add syrup 
to raspberry and currant- juice and freeze, using three 
parts finely crushed ice to one part rock salt. 

LEMON SHERBET 
(for Church Picnic) 

Water, 1 gal. Lemons, juice of 12. 

Sugar, 4 lbs. Gelatine, 1 two-oz. package. 

Lemons, rind of 4. 

Mix all together and proceed same as for ice 
cream. I always dissolve gelatine before mixing and 
put sugar in water several hours before putting in 
other ingredients. A very good way is to boil the 
water, then put in sugar and let it get thoroughly cold. 

CURRANT SHERBET 

Dissolve a tumbler of red currant jelly in a pint of 
cream and add a little sugar if not sufficiently sweet. 
Soak a heaping tablespoonful of gelatine in a little 
water, beat it into the cream thoroughly and pour the 
mixture into a mould to harden. When firm turn out 
and garnish with perfect clusters of fresh currants. 
Serve plain or with cream. 



64 

MAPLE PARFAIT 
(Miss Martha Miller) 

Cream, 1 pt., whipped stiff. Eggs, yolks of 4. 

Maple syrup, 34 cupful, 
boiled down to ^ cup- 
ful. 

Pour the maple syrup, hot, over the yolks of eggs 
and stir in double boiler till the mixture adheres to 
the spoon. Whip gradually into the whipped cream. 
Put into a mould with cover which has also been wet. 
Pack in ice and salt for 3 hours or more. 

MILK SHERBET 
(Ella Newton Rhoades) 

Sugar, 2 cupfuls. Lemons, 3. 

Oranges, 4, grated, rind Milk, 4 cupfuls. 
of 2. 

Put sugar in bowl, add grated rind and juice of 
fruit ; add milk, and when sugar is dissolved, freeze. 

MARSHMALLOW CREAM 

Eggs, white of 1, beaten to Sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls, 
a foam. folded in. 

Cream, J^ pt., heavy. Con- Vanilla, few drops. 

ti'nue beating until stiff. Marshmallows, 2 dozen, cut 

in quarters. 

ORANGE SHERBET IN ORANGE CUPS 

Make the cups by cutting a slice from the top of 
each orange and removing the pulp and juice to use 
for the sherbet. Cut each cup into points and set 
away on ice. At serving-time, place the cups upon 
pretty plates, garnished with holly, and fill with 
orange sherbet, pressing, through pastry bag and tube, 
upon each one, a star of whipped cream. 



65 

WINE CREAM 
(Frau Richter) 

Wine, 1 bottle of good, Eggs, 10. 

cold white wine. Lemons, juice of 2. 

Sugar, y 2 lb., rubbed on Cornstarch, 1 level spoon- 
lemon peel=good cup- ful, mixed with 

ful of cut sugar. Water, cold. 

Beat well together. Put over the stove till it begins 
only to cook. Pour into glass dishes and eat the 
same day. 



LEMON CREAM 
(Frau Eichwede) 

Eggs, 6. Gin, 1 teaspoonful. 

Sugar, M tt>.=*/2 cupful. Gelatine, 15 to 17 gram, or 

Lemon peel, J4, and all the 8 to 10 sheets, dis- 

juice. solved in 

White wine, y 2 small wine- Hot water, 2 small cupfuls. 

glassful. 

Yolks stirred with sugar half an hour, lemon and 
wine added, gelatine when cool, stirred till it begins 
to thicken, and last, the whites. 



COFFEE CUSTARD 

Coffee, V/ 2 cupfuls. Eggs, 2. 

Milk, enough to make a Cornstarch, 1 heaping 

quart when added to tablespoonful. 

the coffee. 

Scald till thick. 



66 



A NICE DESSERT OF APPLES 

Apples, 2 lbs., green. Lemons, juice and grated 

Sugar, 1V4 lbs. rind of 1, large. 

Water, a little. 

Pare the apples and cut them in small pieces, and 
drop them in a rich syrup made of the sugar and 
water. As soon as the syrup begins to boil, add the 
lemon. Boil till the apples become a solid mass. 
Turn out in a wet mould to stand till cold. Serve on 
a dish surrounded with boiled custard, or eat with sea- 
soned cream. 



LEMON TRIFLE 

Lemons, 2, juice of both, Cream, 1 pt., well sweet- 
grated rind of 1. ened and whipped stiff. 
Sherry, 1 cupful. Nutmeg, a little. 
Sugar, 1 large cupful. 

Strain the lemon-juice over the sugar and grated 
peel, and let lie together 2 hours before adding the 
wine and nutmeg. Strain again and whip gradually 
into a frothed cream. Serve in jelly-glasses and send 
around with cake. 



MISS WARD'S CREAM WHIP 

Rich cream, 1 pt. Sugar, */£ cupful. 

Pale sherry wine, 1 cupful. Eggs, 2, whites, beaten 
Lemons, 1, large, grated light, 

rind and juice. 

Mix in order given; add more sugar if desired. 
Stir till sugar is dissolved, then whip; skim off froth 
and put in whip-glasses. 



67 



PRUNE MOULD 



Prunes, 1% lbs. Sugar, 4 ozs. 

Gelatine, y 2 package. Red wine, 2 glassfuls. 

Put the prunes on the fire, covered with cold water. 
Boil a minute, take off, drain, and take out stones. 
Crack them, blanch them and take off the brown skin. 
Dissolve the gelatine in cold water and put on the fire 
with the sugar. Boil 5 minutes. Add the wine. 
Place the prunes with a kernel in each in a mould 
(casserole). Pour in the liquid. When set, pour out 
and fill center with whipped cream. 



APPLE SNOW 

Apples, 10, good-sized. Sugar, 1 cupful. 

Lemons, 2, juice and grated Eggs, whites of 6. 
rind. 

Pare, slice and quarter the apples ; steam them until 
tender, and then run them through the colander and 
set where they will get ice-cold. When cold, add the 
lemons, sugar and eggs. Beat all to a froth, and 
serve immediately in a deep glass dish. 



LEMON SNOW 
(A. N. Rhoades) 

Sugar, 1 cupful. Lemon juice, % cupful. 

Cornstarch, Vi cupful. Lemon rind, 1 teaspoonful. 

Water, 1 pt. Eggs, 2 whites. 

Mix sugar and cornstarch; add water and boil 5 
minutes ; cook over hot water 30 minutes ; add lemon 
and egg whites, beaten stiff; mould, chill and serve 
with boiled custard. 



68 

CANNING 



(Government Receipts Given in Pamphlet Issued by U. S.) 

To can fruit or berries, place them whole in the 
jars after paring them or picking them, as the case 
may be. Add the sugar specified and cold water 
enough to fill the jars brimful. They should be run- 
ning over. Place the covers on, but do not snap the 
fasteners down. Boil the fruits as stated below: 



Strawberries . . J^ cupful sugar to each pint jar, 10 min. 
Blackberries . . y 2 cupful sugar to each pint jar, 10 min. 

Cherries % cupful sugar to each pint jar, 15 min. 

Raspberries . . y 2 cupful sugar to each pint jar, 15 min. 

Currants J4 cupful sugar to each pint jar, 10 min. 

Gooseberries , . % cupful sugar to each pint jar, 15 min. 
Huckleberries . J4 cupful sugar to each pint jar, 10 min. 

Pineapples J4 cupful sugar to each pint jar, 10 min. 

Pears Yi cupful sugar to each pint jar, 10 min. 

Apricots Yz cupful sugar to each pint jar, 5 min. 

Peaches y% cupful sugar to each pint jar, 10 min. 

Cranberries ... 1 cupful sugar to each pint jar, 45 min. 

Preserved Watermelon Rind, 

1 cupful sugar to each pint jar, 45 min. 
Crabapples ... % cupful sugar to each pint jar, 30 min. 



69 

VEGETABLES 

In the case of vegetables, they require a great deal 
of cooking, and the times given below are accurate and 
the results of long experience : 

Asparagus, 

y 2 teaspoonful salt to each pint jar, 3 hours 

Peas x /i teaspoonful salt to each pint jar, 3^ hours 

Cauliflower, 

y 2 teaspoonful salt to each pint jar, 3 hours 
Tomatoes. 1 teaspoonful salt to each pint jar, 1 hour 

Corn Pinch of salt to each pint jar, 4^ hours 

Spinach Pinch of salt to each pint jar, ij4 hours 

Onions Pinch of salt to each pint jar, 3 hours 

String Beans No salt, 3 hours 

CANNED SWEET, GREEN OR RED PEPPERS 

Wash peppers, cut in halves and remove seeds. Cut 
in narrow strips like straws ; lay in a bowl, cover with 
boiling water and let stand 3 minutes; drain well and 
pack in glass jars as tightly as possible. 

Sugar, 1 cupful. Vinegar, 2 cupfuls. 

Take sugar and vinegar in this proportion and sim- 
mer 10 minutes; pour over peppers in glass jar till 
overflowing; seal. 



70 
PICKLES 



PICKLED PEACHES 

Vinegar, 2 qts. Cloves, a few. 

Brown sugar, 4 lbs. Mace, a little. 

Cinnamon, 1 oz. 

Boil together and pour hot over : Ripe peaches, one- 
half peck, previously paired, and a clove stuck in each. 
Let it stand till the next morning, when pour off, boil 
again and pour it over. Repeat this two or three 
times, till the peaches seem penetrated- with the liquor. 
Some like free-stone peaches the best and some 
"clings." If cling-stones, they will require more boil- 
ing, perhaps three or four times. 

WATERMELON RIND PICKLE 

Melon, 10 lbs. Cloves, Yl oz. 

Sugar, 2 lbs. Cinnamon, 1 oz. 

Vinegar, 1 qt. 

Boil the melon rind in water until tender ; drain the 
water off ; make a syrup of the other ingredients. Boil 
all this and pour over the rind boiling hot; drain off 
the syrup and let it come to a boil; then pour it over 
the second time and seal jars. 

GREEN GRAPE JELLY 

Gather Catawba grapes before ripening; pick them 
from the stem, wash them, and put them in a stone 
jar; set the jar in a kettle of cold water over a hot 
fire; when the juice comes out of the grapes, take the 
kettle off and strain the grapes; to each pint of the 
juice put i pound of the best loaf sugar ; boil 20 min- 
utes in the kettle. Ripe grape jelly may be made in 
the same way, boiling 5 minutes before sugar is added 
and 3 minutes after. 



71 
PRESERVES, JELLIES, ETC. 



SPICED GRAPE JELLY 

Wild grapes, 1 peck, picked Whole cloves, J4 cupful. 

over, washed, drained Cinnamon, % cupful, stick. 

and stemmed. Granulated sugar, 6 lbs., or 
Vinegar, 1 qt. 3 qts. 

Heat the grapes, vinegar, cloves and cinnamon to 
the boiling-point, gradually, and let simmer till the 
grapes are soft. Strain through a double thickness of 
cheese-cloth or jelly-bag; return to preserving kettle, 
again bring to boiling-point and let simmer 20 min- 
utes. Add the sugar which has been heated; let sim- 
mer 5 minutes, or until it jellies, and pour into 
glasses. Place in a sunny window and let stand 24 
hours. Cover and keep in a cool, dry place. 



APPLE BUTTER 

Sweet cider, 8 qts., boiled Sugar, 2 lbs. 

down to 4. Add Spice, to taste. 

Chopped apples, 4 qts. 



Boil. 



SPICED GOOSEBERRY JELLY 



Gooseberries, 6 qts. Powdered cloves, 1 table- 
Sugar, 9 lbs., or 4J4 qts. spoonful. 

Vinegar, 1 pt. Powdered allspice, 1 table- 
Powdered cinnamon, 1 spoonful, 
tablespoonful. 

Cook the gooseberries, which have been washed and 
stemmed, with the sugar, for 1^2 hours. Then add 
the other ingredients. Boil till it jellies. 



72 

MINT JELLY 
(Mrs. I. Harris Metcalf) 

Apples, 1 cupful (juice) to Sugar, % cupful. 

Wash and cut open apples. Put in kettle with 
water to almost cover. Boil till cooked thoroughly. 
Strain in jelly-bags, leaving over night. To a cupful 
of juice, add seven-eighths cupful sugar. Bring to a 
boil, stirring constantly. Boil till a drop jellies on a 
saucer when dropped from the spoon. Remove from 
stove ; hang a cheese-cloth bag full of mint-leaves over 
the edge of the kettle and press with back of wooden 
spoon till the desired flavor has been secured. Color 
the desired shade with leaf green. Pour into jelly- 
glasses which have been boiled in pan on the stove. 
When cold, pour melted paraffin over the jelly, cover 
and set away. 

APPLE JELLY 

Apples, a preserving-kettle Cinnamon, a stick, broken 

full. in small pieces. 

Water, to cover % of the Cut sugar, 1 lb., or granu- 

way. lated sugar, 2 cupfuls. 

Lemon rind, to taste. Lemon juice, 1 tablespoon- 
Cloves, a handful. ful. 

Isinglass, ]/ 2 oz. 

Put the apples in a preserving-kettle, peeled and 
cored. Add as much water as will nearly cover 
them. Then the lemon rind, cloves and cinnamon. 
When the apples are reduced to a pulp, strain through 
a flannel jelly-bag. To each pint of juice, add a pint 
of sugar, a tablespoonful of lemon-juice and half an 
ounce of isinglass. Let all boil together for one-half 
hour. It is then ready for the crocks and is of a 
lovely amber tint. 



73 



WINE JELLY 

Gelatine, y 2 boxful, dis- Sugar, y 2 pt. 
solved in Wine, y 2 pt. 

Boiling water, iy 2 pts. Lemon, juice of 1. 

Strain. 



74 
CANDY 



CHOCOLATE FILBERTS 
Shell filberts, lay them on wax paper in tins and 
pour sweet chocolate which has been softened in a 
double boiler over them. You will have a delicious 
home-made confection. 

PEANUT CANDY 
(Hope Smith) 
Molasses to cover saucepan. Butter, size of an egg. 
Salt, 1 pinch. Vinegar, 1 teaspoonful. 

Boil till brittle when put in cold water, and pour 
over chopped peanuts in a greased pan. 

BALTIMORE CARAMELS 
(Helen Campbell) 
Baker's unsweetened choco- Milk, J4 cupful. 

late, % lb. or Yi cake. Butter, size of an egg. 
Sugar, 2 cupfuls. 
Boil 20 to 25 minutes. 

FUDGE 
(H. A. Robeson) 
Sugar, 3 cupfuls. Butter, size of an egg. 

Milk, Yi cupful, boiled till When taken from fire, 

sugar is dissolved. add 

Chocolate, V 2 cake, grated. Vanilla, 1 teaspoonful, and 
When it thickens, add beat. 

SOUR MILK FUDGE 
Cocoa, 3 heaping table- Butter, size of a large wal- 

spoonfuls. nut. 

Sugar, 3 cupfuls. Vanilla, 1 teaspoonful. 

Sour milk, J^ cupul. 

Mix cocoa and sugar together. Add some milk and 
butter. Stir often and cook till it forms a soft ball in 
water. Remove from fire and beat in vanilla well. 
Put in buttered pan and mark before it is cold. 



75 
BEVERAGES 



MRS. GEDDES' RULE FOR COFFEE 
(M. B. Campbell) 

Coffee, 1 large cupful. Eggs, 1, shell included. 

Mix until every grain of coffee is covered with egg. 
Pour on cold water enough to cover the coffee. Let 
that come to a boil, then add i pint of boiling water. 
Let it boil slowly io or 15 minutes. Add 1 cupful 
of cold water, and let it stand 5 minutes to settle. 

HOW TO MAKE GOOD COFFEE 

Allow a rounded tablespoonful for each cupful of 
water. Mix the coffee with just enough raw egg to 
moisten, then add one-half cupful of cold water; put 
into a scalded coffee-pot; add the boiling water; boil 
3 minutes; add another one-third cupful cold water 
and stand on back of stove for 10 minutes. 

RUSSIAN TEA 

The genuine "Russian" tea is not tea made and al- 
lowed to cool, but tea just brewed. One teaspoonful 
of tea is allowed to each cup of boiling water, which 
is then allowed to steep on the hearth or table for 15 
minutes. The glasses are then filled three-quarters 
full of cracked ice, chipped so fine that it cools the 
tea immediately, and then boiling tea poured on. One 
teaspoonful of lemon-juice and 1 slice of lemon com- 
pletes the cup which "cheers." 

Sassafrass Tea, to be taken with ginger-bread. 
Serve in tall brown and yellow mugs. 



76 

MIXTURE FOR TEA 

Oolong, Yi lb. Hyson, % lb. 

Souchong, J4 lb. Orange Pekoe, 2 ozs. 

SAUTERNE CUP 

Sauterne, 2 qts. Lemons, juice of 6. 

Ginger ale, 2 bottlefuls. Mint. 

Maraschino, 1 glassful. Slices of oranges. 

Orange curacao, 1 glassful. Strawberries or 

Brandy, 1J4 glassfuls. Cherries. 

Pour ginger ale on, last minute, over blocks of ice, 
using 3 bottlefuls if desired, and more maraschino if 
not sweet enough. 

SAUTERNE CUP 
(Prof. William Macdonald) 



Sauterne, 2J4 bottlefuls. 
Sherry, 2 glassfuls. 
Maraschino, 1 glassful. 
Lemons, 4. 


Apollinaris, 1 bottleful. 

Ginger ale, 3 bottlefuls, 

Sugar. 

Slices of pineapple. 


DME INGREDIENTS FOR TEMPERANCE PUN' 


(Mabel) 


Lemon phosphate. 

Currant shrub. 

Raspberry shrub. 

Ginger. 

Phosa. 

Coffee. 

Pepper. 


Sugar. 

Salt. 

Orange-juice. 

Vanilla. 

Strawberries. 

Tea. 

Pineapple. 


A NEW HAMPSHIRE 


HAY-TIME DRINK 


Powdered ginger, 1 heap- 
ing tablespoonful. 
Vinegar, 1 cupful. 


Lemons, 4. 
Sugar, 2 cupfuls. 
Ice-water, 2 qts. 



Mix first ingredients and pour water over them, 
stirring till sugar is dissolved. 



77 

PICNIC LEMONADE 
(from American Cookery) 

Wash and roll the lemons and lay them in the oven. 
Allow one-half cupful of granulated sugar to each 
lemon. Grate the rind over sugar. Press juice into 
a bowl. Strain into a glass fruit jar and add sugar 
and grated rind. Seal and put in picnic basket. A 
tablespoonful in a glass of ice-water makes a delicious 
drink. 

PINEAPPLE-WATER 

Pineapple-water forms the basis for many de- 
licious drinks, as I learned from Manuel, who was an 
expert on Jamaica drinks. 

Pineapples, 1. Ginger-root, a few pieces. 

Water, 1 qt. 

Soak the parings and cone of the pineapple in the 
water for 3 days, or till fermented. Add ginger root 
and boil till soft. Strain and set away for future use. 
Excellent to add to most summer drinks. If it is de- 
sired stronger, put all the pineapple in. 

PENASIBO FLIP 
Grape juice, 1 part. Pineapple-water, a little. 

Ginger ale, 3 parts. Sugar, a little. 

Lemons, 1 or 3 to a bottle Mint, a little, 
of ginger ale. 

GINGER BEER 
Boiling water, 4 qts. Cream tartar, 1 large table- 

Ginger root, 1J4 ozs., spoonful. 

bruised. Brown sugar, 2J3 cupfuls. 

Lemons, 2, sliced thin. 

Pour boiling water over other ingredients. When 
cool, add 2 yeast-cakes. Let it ferment 24 hours, then 
strain through cheese-cloth and bottle. It improves 
by keeping 2 or 3 weeks, unless the weather is very 
hot. 



78 



GINGERED LIME IN TALL GLASSES 

Lime-juice, 2 tablespoon- Sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls. 

fuls. Ice or 

Jamaica ginger, Vt tea- Carbonated water. 

spoonful, scant. 

Mix first ingredients and fill glass with ice or car- 
bonated water. 

JAMAICA FRUIT PUNCH 
(Manuel Lopez) 

Enough for six people. 

Pineapples, 1. Ginger ale, 1 bottleful. 

Grape-fruit, 3. Lithia water, 1 bottleful. 

Oranges, 4. Sherry wine, 1 tablespoon- 
Lemons, 3. ful. 

Malaga grapes, y 2 lb. Brandy, 1 tablespoonful. 

Ginger. Jamaica rum, y 2 tumblerful. 
Cider, 1 cupful. 

Cut and peel pineapple. Put all together with piece 
of ginger on fire to boil for about 4 hours. Set it in 
ice-box for 2 days before ready to use. When ready, 
strain through a sieve. Pineapple skin must be 
squeezed. Add grape-fruit and oranges and lemon- 
juice, all strained. Then add cider, ginger ale, lithia 
water and one-quarter cupful sugar. Remove seeds 
from grapes. Press them with your finger and drop 
into mixture. Then, lastly, add Jamaica rum. 

SUMMER DRINKS 
yi claret. 2 /z ginger ale. 

Vi grape-juice. 34 ginger ale. 

A little gin. Ginger ale. 

Juice and bit of rind of 1 A little sugar, 
lime. 



79 

SABBAGLIONI 
(Mrs. J. Flagler) 

Eggs, 1 white. Eggs, 4 yolks. 

Marsala. Milk or cream. 

A half egg-shell filled with Marsala three times 
poured over the well-beaten eggs. Sugar to taste, 
beating continually over slow fire. 

LEMON SHRUB 

Lemons, juice of 6. White whiskey, 3 pts. 

Lemons, rind of 1. Cold water, 3 pts. 

Oranges, rind of 1. Brandy or 
Sugar, 3 lbs., or loaf. 

Steep the grated peel in the sugar and water to a 
thick syrup. When cool, strain into it the lemon- 
juice and liquor. Shake up well, 5 minutes, and bot- 
tle. Seal bottles and lay on their sides. 

STRAWBERRY SHRUB 

Ripe strawberries, 4 qts. Loaf sugar, 4 lbs. 

Lemons, juice of 4. Brandy, 1 pt., best. 

Mash the berries and squeeze. Add strained lemon- 
juice. Boil 5 minutes, add sugar, and boil 5 minutes 
more. Skim when cold and add brandy. Cork 
tightly. 

MINT DRINK 

Mint, 5 sprigs. Sugar, to taste. 

Lemons, 2. Ginger ale, 1 bottleful. 

Wash mint and shake with ice till crushed. Wash 
lemons, roll, grate a bit on sugar, squeeze and put with 
mint in ice-box to soak. When ready to serve, put in 
pitcher with ice, ginger ale and a sprig of mint ; sugar 
to taste. 



80 

ROBERTA'S EGG-NOGG 
(S. P. Babcock) 

For 25 people or more. 

Eggs, 24. Brandy, 2 cupfuls. 

Granulated sugar, 4 cup- Medford rum, 2 cupfuls. 
fuls. Cream, 3 qts. 

Separate eggs, beat yolks very light, add sugar and 
beat well; add brandy and rum. Whip cream to a 
froth and add. Beat whites stiff and add last and stir 
thoroughly. May be made in the morning to use in 
the afternoon. If too strong, add more cream. If 
too rich, add more milk and sweeten to taste. 



FRUIT COCKTAILS 

Grape-fruit, oranges and grapes. Equal parts 
brandy, curacao and maraschino; skimp brandy. Or 

Pineapple, Lemons, juice of 3. 

Cherries, Sugar, to taste. 

White grapes, Good brandy, a little. 
Curasao, 3 sherry glassfuls. 



FRUIT DRINK 
(Mabel Rathbun) 

Sugar, 2 cupfuls. Grape-juice, 1 qt., unfer- 
Hot water, 1 cupful, boiled mented. 

1 minute with sugar. Oil of cinnamon, 2 drops. 

Lemon-juice, 1 cupful. Oil of cloves, 1 drop. 

Sweet-cider, 1 qt. Alcohol, 1 teaspoonful. 

Put a large piece of ice in the bowl and pour punch 
over it. 



81 
MEAD 

Boiling water, 3 pts., Wintergreen or 
poured over Sassafras, 1 oz. 

Loaf sugar, 3 lbs. 

Stir well, then let cool. 

Tartaric acid, 3 ozs. Eggs, whites of 3, well 

beaten. 

Stir again and bottle. This syrup will keep any 
length of time. To use, put about 2 tablespoonfuls 
syrup into glass. Fill up with carbonated soda-water; 
or a less expensive way is to fill glass about two-thirds 
full of ice-water, then add a rather small quarter tea- 
spoonful baking soda, stir rapidly and drink while 
effervescing. 



COCKTAIL 

Old Tom gin, 54. Squeezing of lemon rind. 

Italian vermouth, X U. 

Ice and shake till a bead is on the shaker. 



YOSEMITE COCKTAIL 
(1901 Chief Coolie of Ann Arbor) 

French vermouth, Yz. Frappe. 

Plymouth gin, Yz. 



Squeeze lemon rind above glass. 



82 

MENU GIVEN BY SAME FOR TWO PEOPLE 

Yosemite Cocktail. 

Oysters and Celery. 

Steak, thick with Campbell dressing, viz.: Melted butter, 

juice of 2 or 3 lemons, paprika, Harvey and 

Worcestershire sauces. 

Grilled Potatoes. 

Lettuce Salad with paprika dressing, viz.: Mustard, paprika, 
salt, little vinegar and lots of oil. 

Camembert Cheese. 

Coffee. 

Serve one very dry wine and Curasao brandy. 



83 
USEFUL RECEIPTS 



K. K. K. OR KIRMESS KOLD KREAM 
(Dr. Thomas Osborne) 

Take best kidney tallow from Southdown mutton. 
Try out in large quantity of water, melt and strain 
cake of fat; repeat several times until fat is entirely 
free from odor; strain through fine cheese-cloth after 
the first time. Melt this odorless and fibreless fat; 
strain through cheese-cloth into shallow pan which is 
bedded in ice and salt and is as cold as possible. Set 
in coldest place you can find. The object is rapid 
crystallization, which improves the texture. 

Best mutton tallow, 1 oz. Oil sweet almonds, 2 ozs. 

Cocoanut oil, 1 oz. Lanolin, 1 oz. 

Heat these thoroughly in heavy china bowl which 
fits into the outside part of a double boiler, keeping 
the hot water up around the sides of the bowl and the 
cover over the bowl. When the lanolin, which is the 
last to melt, blends with the rest, remove the bowl and 
beat vigorously with an egg-beater, all the while keep- 
ing the bowl surrounded with ice-water which is not 
allowed to grow warm. (This part of the process 
needs four hands.) When cool and a foamy cream, 
add gradually: 

Best witch-hazel extract. Simple tincture of benzoin, 

1 oz. 1 teaspoonful. 

If perfume is desired, add at this point. Put into 
the open end of tubes, which can be procured at the 
druggist's; fold bottom of tube over twice, and the 
cream is ready for use after labelling. 



64 

DRINK OF NITRATE OF POTASH FOR FERNS 

Once in two or three weeks, treat the fern to a 
drink of nitrate of potash, which may be bought from 
the druggist cheaply. One-eighth of a teaspoonful in 
a pint of warm water after it has had its daily water- 
ing is sufficient for two good-sized plants. This is 
used by florists who grow ferns to perfection. Apply 
the fertilizer to the soil and not to the foliage. 



SOAP 
(M. R. S.) 

Grease, 6 lbs. Borax, 2 tablespoonfuls. 

Babbitt's lye, 1 can. Sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls, 
Cold water, 1 qt. scent if desired. 

Ammonia, 1 tablespoonful. 

Put the clear grease into dish-pan and melt it. Put 
the lye in lard-pail. Add the water and stir with 
wooden stick until dissolved. Let cool ; remove grease 
from the fire and pour in lye slowly, stirring all the 
time. Add the ammonia and stir constantly for 20 
minutes or half an hour, until soap begins to set. Let 
stand until hard and cut into square cakes. 

VISCOGEN TO THICKEN CREAM 

Dissolve 5 tablespoonfuls sugar in an overflowing 
cup of warm water, 2 ounces or 1 heaping tablespoon- 
ful of quicklime; add seven-eighths cupful of cold 
water and let it gradually slack ; strain. Combine the 
two liquids; shake occasionally for 2 hours. In 3 
hours set aside to settle. Pour off the clear liquid in 
a bottle; cork tightly; keep in a cool place. Use one- 
quarter teaspoonful to three-quarters cupful chilled 
cream, stirring. 



85 

CANDIED GRAPE-FRUIT PEEL 
(T. T. Clark) 

Soak grape-fruit peel in salted cold water 24 hours. 
Boil until tender, 6 to 18 hours, changing water at 
least three times. Drain; add equal weight of sugar. 
Cook 1 hour, covered. Drain in sieve and roll each 
piece in sugar. 



86 
USEFUL HINTS 



To break a glass vase or bottle evenly, saturate a 
string in turpentine and tie around the vase where you 
wish it broken. Fill the vase with cold water up to 
that point and set fire to the string. 

To dry the inside of shoes, fill with hot corn-meal. 

Before frying cold potatoes, dust them with flour. 

Bed-ticking stained with blood from wounds may 
be cleaned by applying wet starch and allowing it to 
dry. 

If you want green vegetables to look green, cook 
them with the cover off. 

To keep sink drains clean, put a handful each of 
salt and soda down the opening; let stand, and then 
pour boiling water down. 

A letter closed with the white of egg cannot be 
opened by steam of boiling water, as the heat adds to 
its firmness. 

A teaspoonful of hydrochloric acid in water will re- 
move sediment from the inside of caraffes. 

If a pie-dish gets discolored, bath-brick or emery- 
paper will remove the stain. 

To keep a zinc pan from rusting, rub the bottom 
with shoe-oil and repeat every little while. 

To keep chocolate or milk from boiling over, rub 
the edge of the dish or pan with grease. 

Wet rust spots on linen with cream of tartar and 
put in the sun. 



87 

The large caloric or kilogram caloric or liter caloric 
is the work done in lifting ioo pounds about 30 feet or 
in heating 1,000 grams of water one degree. A farmer 
does about 3,600 calorics of work a day. Any "push" 
that gives 3,000 as the product of the force and the 
distance involves one caloric of work. 

Finger-marks on paint can be removed by wiping 
with a cloth wet in kerosene. Wipe dry afterwards. 

Ink-spots on polished wood should be wet with a 
camel's-hair brush, dipped in sweet spirits of niter. 
Rub directly after with a cloth dipped in sweet oil. 

Grease spots which will not come out with cold 
water and ivory soap may be covered with powdered 
French chalk and ironed. 

Sandpaper the soles of baby's new shoes, so they 
will not slip on polished floors. 

Ant pests may be driven away by putting a few 
drops of oil of lemon about. 

For scratched furniture, take a spoonful of turpen- 
tine and one of oil (linseed). Dip a small brush in 
the mixture and pass quickly over the scratch. After- 
wards wipe dry with a soft cloth. 

SOLUTION FOR PRESERVING EGGS 

Get a quart of water-glass from the drug-store. 
Pack eggs in a wooden firkin or a crock. To one part 
water-glass, add ten of tepid water. Mix thoroughly, 
and when cool, pour over eggs to cover. 

Wood alcohol removes vaseline stains from wash- 
goods. 



88 

A help for corns is to chew fresh gum thoroughly 
and bind on while warm. 

TO REMOVE STAINS FROM MUSLINS, ETC 

Tartaric acid or Water, 1 tabkspoonful. 

Salt of lemons, Yz tea- 
spoonful, in 

Wet the stain, and lay it in the sun for an hour, 
wetting in cold water once or twice in the meantime. 

To remove ink-stains from carpets, wet with Ger- 
man cologne. 

To keep flowers fresh, mix a little carbonate of soda 
in the water. 

To clean enamelled ware, put it on the fire with hot 
water in which has been dissolved a tablespoonful of 
soda. Boil 15 minutes. If not clean, scour with soap 
and sand. Clean tin the same way, or with brick- 
dust: 

A coat of gum copal will make shoes waterproof. 

A window shade may be cleaned by rubbing with 
dry salt and corn-meal. 

For white spots on the nails, a solution of turpen- 
tine and myrrh in equal parts is an excellent remedy. 

The most obstinate coffee-stains can be removed by 
a solution of lukewarm water and the yolk of an egg. 

To wash chintz, make a lather of the best soft soap, 
add 1 tablespoonful of vinegar and a pinch of salt to 
every quart, a larger proportion to rinsing water, 
rinsing quickly, and the colors will be as good as new. 

A spoonful of vinegar in a kettle of hot lard will 
prevent doughnuts from absorbing fat. 



89 

Black silk sponged with strong black tea and a few 
drops of ammonia comes out wonderfully well. 

To bake potatoes quickly, clean and pour boiling 
water over them, then let stand on the stove 5 or 10 
minutes before putting in the oven to bake. 

Cheese may be kept from going mouldy by wrap- 
ping it in a cloth dipped in vinegar and wrung nearly 
dry. Cover the cloth with a wrapper of paper and 
keep in a cool place. 

Old stains may be removed from leather by apply- 
ing powdered pipe-clay mixture with water to a paste ; 
apply and allow the paste to remain on the leather for 
several hours. Repeat, if necessary. 

For 10 days before kittens come, give 2 drops of 
Pulsatilla twice a day. For worms, give McLane's 
vermifuge as directed for child under three years. 
Just starve cat for 12 hours. 

Put a piece of bread through the meat-chopper after 
chopping meat or raisins. You will find no difficulty 
in washing it clean. 

Equal parts of linseed oil and cider vinegar mixed 
thoroughly together makes an excellent dressing for 
linoleum. 

If a little ginger (about one-third of a teaspoonful) 
is used when making doughnuts, they will keep fresh 
longer. 

To remove soot from carpet, sprinkle with corn- 
meal and brush off lightly, a little at a time. 

Sweet potatoes, if greased before being put into the 
oven, will bake in half the time, and the skin will be 
almost as soft as when boiled. 



90 

The mica in stoves will clean nicely if thoroughly 
washed with vinegar slightly diluted. If the black 
does not come off readily, soak it for a little while. 

When the white trimming on a coat . or dress be- 
comes dingy, wring a clean white cloth out of thin 
starch, place it on the trimming, then put a dry cloth 
over that and iron with a hot iron. 

To remove engine grease, rub the spots well with 
lard before washing. There is tar in engine grease. 
The lard will remove pure tar from cloth. Wash with 
cool water and Ivory soap. 

To sweeten closets, small pieces of charcoal laid in 
the corners and upon the shelves will absorb damp- 
ness and dispel unpleasant odors. 

To clean coffee-stained linen, soak in cold water, to 
which has been added a little borax. All coffee, 
chocolate, tea and fruit-stains will disappear if boil- 
ing water be poured over and through the spot before 
the linen is washed. It is best to do this while the 
stain is fresh and damp. 

To extinguish blazing lard, a dash of flour into the 
lard will quench the flames at once. 

Boil scorched articles in milk and turpentine, with 
half a pound of soap to a gallon of milk. 

To remove rust from flat-irons, scour with dry salt 
and beeswax. 



91 
MEDICINAL RECEIPTS 



CURE FOR COUGH 
(J. E. Ireson) 

Jamaica rum, 1 pt. Oil of tar, 30 drops. 

Honey, % lb. 

RHEUMATISM CURE 

Fluid extract dandelion, y 2 Compound syrup sarsapa- 

oz. rilla, 3 ozs. 

Compound kargon, 1 oz. 

Mix by shaking in the bottle. Take a teaspoonful 
after each meal and one at bedtime. 



WATER GRUEL 

Flour, 1 level tablespoon- Water, 2 cupuls. 

ful, sifted. Salt, .1 flat teaspoonful. 

Put all on stove in sauce-pan; stir constantly, tak- 
ing care there are no lumps. Serve hot. Add sugar 
and nutmeg if desired. 

GRUEL 

Cold water, 1 pt. Flour, 1 spoonful, stirred 

Salt. in water till it boils. 

Milk, 1 pt. 

To purify a sick-room, keep on the mantel a saucer 
filled with a solution of chloride of lime and cold 
water. Stir frequently; renew every few days. 



;»;» ■>..:. VMi$$;i ■ 



