uy 



WOM 



r nnn!/ pi 

ll I i I i fl i i 1 i 

■^w" -38^ ''SsS? 53 'is Bt^ ^^^ 



OF TH E 

CLM-OFREADiNBM, 












~2 


Kf 


^^s 


^^^^K 


9 


^^ 


11 


^^K 


i 


II 


Mtsiece 


IP 



BOSTOIN 
PUBLIC 
UBRi^RY 




CLUB HOUSE 

COOK BOOK 



Compiled by 

ANNIE lAEGER SNYDER (MRS. JEFFERSON) 

OF THE WOMAN'S CLUB OF READING, PA., DURING THE SUMMEB 
OF 1916, TO BE SOLD FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE CLUB HOUSE 
FUND OF THE WOMAN'S CLUB OF READING, PENNSYLVANIA. 



COMMITTEE ON CLUB HOUSE FUND 

BELLE L. EBUR, Chairman 

HANNAH COTTEREL HATTIE KLAPP ROTHERMEL 

ANNIE K. EBUR LILLIE C. POMEROY 

ADELAIDE K. HENDEL EMMA HENDEL SPANG 

MARY BAER HIESTER MARY ELIZABETH ULRICH 

M. LOUISE HILL MARY ALICE WEAND 

MABEL C. L. JONES ADELAIDE WRIGHT 

SARAH D. KEELY BLANCHE AUGUSTA ZIEBER 

EMILY BAER KNAPP ANNIE lAEGER SNYDER 



C4 3F 
19 i(o% 



Dedicated to the 

Women of the Woman's Cluh 

of Reading, Pennsylvania 
who, in giving their tested recipes, have enabled 
me to give this book to the public. 



The Woman's Club 

OF 
Reading, Pennsylvania. 



Founder, Jean B. Stephenson, September, 1896. 



OFFICERS 1916-1917 

President 

PRISCILI.A SELTZER 

First Vice President 

ANNIE Iv. LUDEN 

Second Vice President 

SARAH E. ANCONA 

Recording Secretary 

MARY GRUMBEIN STRICKEER 

Corresponding Secretary 

IvILUE C. POMEROY 

Treasurer 

LOUISE RICHARDSON LYONS 

Auditor 

KATHERINE B. HESSER 

Civics Division 
LIEUE G. HOFFMASTER, Chairman 

Literature Division 

ANGELICA LOUISE SAFFORD, Chairman 

Music Division 

VIOLA JOHNSON, Chairman. 



Whoever thinks a faultless piece to see 
Thinks what ne'er was, nor is, nor e'er shall be. 

— Pope. 

All things were held in common and what one had was another's. 

— Longfellow. 



Foreword 




|0\V far away seem the beginnings of this book," 
says Mrs. Humphrey Ward in the foreword of 
Eltham House, and yet how appropriate in my 
offering this Cook Book to the Club, for, for many 
years, I have been collecting and hoarding up for 
my own benefit many good recipes. Little is original and yet 
I have taken nothing from the gorgeous Belgian Cook Book, 
neither from the modest Lutheran one ; but I have used much 
material, with Congressman Dewalt's permission, from 
Farmer's Bulletins of United States Department of Agri- 
culture. 



The few advertisements have helped me financially with- 
out which the book would not have been published, and I 
would call the attention of the readers of this book to the 
advertisements of banks and hotels, with the request they give 
them the preference because of their kindness in helping me. 



ANNIE lAEGER SNYDER. 



HE book in your hands contains the gleanings of 
an active body of club women. I have examined 
it carefully, and take pleasure in pronouncing the 
recipes it contains as a whole (some old, some 
new, but all tested), practical, economical and 
good. I wish the compiler much success in her enterprise. 




PRISCILLA SELTZER. 

President of The Woman's Club of Reading. 



A VS/ord on Cook Books 




HE oldest German Cook Book was printed in 
1587 and the Romans reproduced one as early as 
A. D. 1490, but even if Cook Books are as old as 
the hills, you will ever want, and ever find some- 
thing new. We hope you will find it in this 

Cook Book. A reliable Cook Book is a household necessity ; 

and in some countries it is always a part of a bride's outfit. 

We all cherish our grandmothers' and mothers' recipes, but 

we would be without them if they had not been put in 

cook books. 



CONTENTS 

Temperature in House 9 

Weights and Measures 10 

Useful Things to Know 12 

A Few Helpful Hints . . 13 

Breakfast 15 

Cereals, Eggs, Bacon, Toast ; 15 

Coffee 21 

Luncheon 22 

Party Luncheon 23 

Dinner 24 

Soups 24 

Fish and Oysters 29 

Combinations for Meats, Vegetables and Sauces 35 

Meats 47 

Sauces G3 

Poultry and Game . 77 

Vegetables 87 

Potatoes 99 

Salads 107 

Pies 119 

Fritters and Pan Cakes 123 

Puddings and Desserts 129 

Frozen Desserts 141 

Cheese 149 

Sandwiches 157 

Hot Breads and Muffins 160 

Large Cakes 1G7 

Small Cakes 177 

Christmas Cakes 183 

Jellies, Butters and Conserves 186 

Drinks 190 

Spiced Fruits and Catsups 102 

Invalid's Tray 194 



Temperatures in the House 

How many housewives consider the many kinds of tem- 
perature measurements which are really found in the home? 
Someone once said that only in a green-house and in a candy 
factory was temperature recognized as an important factor. 
The temperature at which foods boil and cook is most im- 
portant, especially the point at which fats are ready for use. 
A knowledge of the effect of low and high temperatures on 
food products will greatly influence the quality of the cook- 
ing. While many of our best cooks just guess at the heat 
of the oven or test it by putting in a paper, there is no reason 
why an oven and cooking cannot have distinct temperature 
measurements. The use of an oven thermometer (which, if 
not on your range, can be bought and adjusted) will un- 
doubtedly result in more accurate cooking, and reduce the 
possibility of scorched or underdone foods. 

There are, indeed, quite definite points for certain kinds 
of cooking as (1) biscuit and pastry, 450 to 550 F., (2) rolls, 
biscuits and muffins, 400 to 450 F., (3) cake, bread, cookies, 350 
to 400 F., (4) custards, pudding, meringue, 250 to 350 F. 
Again, at what temperature should a refrigerator be kept? 
Do all housewives know it should lie between 45 and 55 de- 
grees F. in order to keep the food supplies in proper condition? 
A simple thermometer would give this reading and would, 
perhaps, prevent unwholesome conditions. 



Weights and Equivalent Measures 

Cup and Spoon Measures 

Here are two methods given by which to measure : 

When measuring always pack the contents tightly and 
level off the top of the measure. A cup means the common 
size coffee cup generally used, that holds a half pint. 

4 cups of flour sifted or 1 quart equal 1 pound 

2 cups of granulated sugar equal 

2y2 cups powdered sugar equal 

2 cups of solid butter equal 1 pint or 

3 cups of meal equal 

1 pint of milk or water equals 

9 large or 10 medium eggs equal 

A tablespoon 14 times quite full is a cup or J^ pint of milk 

or water. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour equals 1 ounce 

1 tablespoonful of liquid equals 1 ounce 

Butter the size of an egg equals 2 " 

5^ cup or yi pint of liquids equals 1 gill. 

SUGAR— 

A level cup of granulated sugar is 7 ounces. 
A rounded cup of granulated sugar is ^ pound. 
A heaping teaspoonful is 1 ounce. 



10 



Measurements No. 2 

In using these measures use one or the other, not taking 
one measure of one and then a measure of the other; both 
are reliable when used by themselves. 

1 teacupfuU of water or milk measures ^ pint 

4 tablespoonfuls of water or milk measures yi pint 

1 wine glass full of water or milk measures y^ pint 

1 breakfast cupful of moist sugar heaped is ^ pound 

1 " " of castor sugar is 7 ounces 

1 " " of rice is 7 ounces 

1 " " of butter, lard or drip'ings heap'd 7 ounces 

1 " " of bread crumbs pressed in is. . . .4 ounces 

1 " " of sago, or tapioca pressed in is. 4 ounces 

1 " " of flour or cornmeal pressed in is 4 ounces 

1 tablespoon of suet fine chopped heaped is 1 ounce 

1 tablespoon of flour, heaped is 1 ounce 

1 tablespoon of moist sugar is 1 ounce 

1 tablespoon of golden syrup measures ^ ounce 

1 dessertspoon of flour heaped measures Yi ounce 

1 saltspoon is equal to Yz teaspoonful 

1 teaspoonful is equal to Y^ dessertspoonful 

1 dessertspoonful is equal to ^ tablespoonful. 

6 ordinary lumps of sugar weigh Y^ ounce 

1 piece of butter the size of an tgg weighs 1 ounce. 



11 



Useful Things to Know 

Tea — Six teaspoonfuls to 1 ounce; 1 pound for 60 or 70 
people if teapots are used. Considerably less if bags of tea 
are placed in urns. 

Coffee (Ground) — One full tablespoon for each person; 
1 pound for 25 to 30 persons ; less when made in large quan- 
tities. 

Sugar — One pound for about 50. The lumps should be 
cut small. 

Milk — Half a gill per head ; 1 pint for about 12 people is 
enough for tea. For coffee the half gill per head. 

Cream — One pint for about 25 people. 

Claret or Lemonade — About ^ pint per head. 

Bread and Butter — One and ^ pounds to 1>4 pounds of 
butter to 3 sandwich loaves. This makes enough thin bread 
and butter for 100 persons. Sandwiches same. 

Large Cake — One slice to 2 people. 

Small Cakes — Three to 2 persons for afternoon teas. 

Ices — About 10 helpings to 1 quart. 

Soup — One-third of a pint per head. 

Fish — Allow yi pound uncooked per head. 

Creams and Jellies — Eight to 10 helpings to a quart mold. 

Cutlets — There are 7 cutlets on a leg of lamb or mutton. 

These quantities are a correct average, but one person 
will use more butter than another when spreading. 

Bread should be one day old and the butter softened by 
placing the plate over boiling water. For thick bread and 
butter allow about 22 rounds to a quartern loaf. Cut each in 
half to make 44 pieces and allow 6 ounces of butter to the loaf. 

Wine — Champagne, about 7 glasses to the bottle; Port, 
about 9 glasses to the bottle; Claret, about 5 glasses to the 
bottle; Sherry, about 10 glasses to the bottle; Graves and 
Sauterne, about 6 glasses to the bottle. 

12 



A Few Helpful Hints 

For boiled, steamed, or baked puddings, bread crumbs, 
or bread crumbs and flour, allow 2 ounces of flour to each 
person. 

One-half pound of flour usually makes a pudding for 4 
people. 

One-half pound of flour will make a pie or tart for 4 
people. 

One-half pound of flour will make 1 dozen scones or 
cakes. 

One pint of custard is enough for 4 people. Allow 1 
gill for each person. 

One pound of meat for 4 persons, less for a stew. 

Allowances 

Butter — One-half pound per head per week for eating. 

Meat — Three-quarter pound uncooked, with bone, per 
head, per day. 

Sugar — One pound per head per week for eating and 
cooking. 

Tea — One-fourth pound per head per week. 

Milk — Three-fourth pint per head per day for all pur- 
poses. 

Jam — One pound per head per week. 

Bread — One-half loaf per head per day. 

Cheese — One-fourth pound per head per day. 

Potatoes — About 3 and J^ pounds per head per week. 

13 



Breakfast, not the most elaborate meal of the day, but 
the first one, will receive our attention first. The custom of 
having a heavy meal to begin the day with has passed away, 
and the simplest meal has taken its place, most people being 
satisfied with eggs, bacon, and toast, often fruit, and cereal 
instead of hot breads and something fried. Fruit in season is 
always desirable and of these there is such a choice I need 
say nothing about it. Next comes the cereal and again I will 
only give the time table from an old book for cereals: 

Quantity Water Time 

Cups Cups Hours 

Indian Meal 1 3>4 4 

Coarse Oatmeal 1 4 3 

Fine Hominy 1 6 3 

Cracked Wheat 1 4 4 

Steamed Cooked Oats 1 5 4 

Pettijohn 1 2 1 

Rolled Wheat 1 2^ .40 

Quaker Oats 1 2^ 1 

Rice 1 4 1 

Cook in double boiler. 

After one of these cereals we come to bacon and eggs. 



BREAKFAST 

" If success be won this work must not be overdone." 

EGGS 

In the egg we find protein, lime, phosphorus, iron, water, 
albumen and fat, but eggs have neither starch or sugar and 
unless combined with something else are not a perfect food. 
The fat is mostly in the yolk, the protein in the albumen. It 
is said one tgg is equal to one gill of good milk in food value, 
and that 10 are equal to 1 pound of meat. The simplest way 
to test the freshness of an Ggg is to drop it into a basin of 
water, the fresh will sink, while the stale will float, while 
the betwixt and between will keep in touch with the bottom 
but will tilt upwards. Eggs will never stand a fierce heat, as 
this toughens the albumen and makes them hard to digest. 
Indeed, eggs should never reach the boiling point if they are to 
be cooked properly. It is said there are over 200 ways of 
cooking eggs. I will first give the popular ways of cooking 
them for breakfast, then some fancy methods used for lunch- 
eon. Few people know how to cook an egg or boil an egg 
for breakfast properly, for even in that there is a right way 
and a wrong way. 

To boil an egg the water should be boiling very fast 
when the egg is put in and there should be enough water to 
completely cover all of them. Immediately they are covered 
the sauce pan should be put on the back of the stove where 
it will stay hot but not boil. The eggs left in this hot water 
will be cooked soft in 5 minutes. If the egg is wanted hard 
it is put in cold water and allowed to come just to a boil; 
then it must be removed from the fire and left standing in the 
water 20 minutes. Cooked in this way they are perfectly 
digestible ,and many who thought they could not eat eggs at 
all have found no discomfort when cooked this way instead 
of the old method. 

15 



CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Poached Eggs — Break the egg into a saucer and slip it 
gently into a pan of rapidly boiling water in which is a pinch 
of salt and ^ teaspoon of vinegar. Remove pan at once from 
fire and leave the egg alone until it is set, then lift out with a 
draining spoon, allowing all the water to run ofif, and serve 
on a neat square of toast. Drain well or it will make the 
toast sodden. 

Scrambled Eggs — Like poached they are seldom cooked 
quite right; instead of a soft creamy concoction they are a 
tough, stringy mess and the reason is too great heat and too 
fast cooking. It is best to scramble eggs over hot water, by 
putting your pan in a larger pan of boiling water. The pro- 
portion of cream or milk and butter is : 3 eggs, 4 tablespoon- 
fuls of cream, I3/2 ounces of butter. Put the milk or cream 
and butter into the pan until hot, then break in the eggs and 
stir with a wooden spoon until it gets just thick. Turn out 
quickly, and serve on buttered toast. 

Eggs Sur le Plat — Grease a fireproof dish. Break the 
eggs, one by one, into it, being careful not to break them. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and put in the oven just long 
enough to set the eggs, but not to make them hard. The 
dish being hot, they continue to cook after being taken from 
the oven, so allowance should be made for that fact. 

Creamed Eggs — Use little individual fireproof pans or 
bowls for this. Break the eggs in carefully, one by one, and 
pour a tablespoon of cream over each egg. 

Creamed Eggs and Potato — Place a layer of smoothly 
mashed and well seasoned potato in the dish or little pans 
previously greased and then an egg on the top as before. 

Creamed Eggs — Cut hard boiled egg lengthwise. Make 
a sauce by boiling 1 cupful of good milk or cream. If using 
cream omit butter, but when using milk add a generous piece 
of butter. Stir in a heaping teaspoon flour stirred in milk. 
Season with pepper and salt. Pour the hot cream sauce over 
the eggs and serve at once. 



BREAKFAST 17 



Baked Eggs in Cream Sauce — Four eggs, 1 tablespoonful 
■of butter, 1 tablespoonful flour, 1 cup cold milk, 1 teaspoon 
salt, dash paprika, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley and a little 
■onion or nutmeg. Put butter in saucepan ; when melted add 
flour. Mix well, add milk and boil 1 minute, add salt. Put 
sauce in earthen ware dish and put the raw eggs in very 
carefully. Put in hot oven about 3 minutes or a little longer. 
Dust with paprika and sprinkle with parsley. Serve in dish 
an which it is baked. 



Egg Omelettes — Six eggs, 6 tablespoonfuls milk, season 
to taste. Beat yolks 5 minutes, add seasoning and milk, beat 
again about 3 minutes. Beat whites until stiff, then fold in 
lightly and bake in a slow oven until the edges begin to 
thicken. Place in oven about 5 minutes until whites are 
brown ; fold and serve. YORK. 



Potato Omelette — Four eggs, 1 cup mashed potato, 1 cup 
sweet milk, 1 teaspoon flour, salt and pepper. Beat eggs 
separately, have pan hot, leave on stove a few minutes, then 
put in oven until ready to serve. 



Asparagus Omelette — Put a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut into a frying pan and when it is melted pour in 3 
■eggs which have been previously beaten, just enough to mix 
the yolks with the whites. Stir constantly and when the 
mixture thickens, take from the fire, season with salt and 
pepper, and stir into what you have left of cold boiled aspara- 
g"us cut into bits. 

Spanish Omelette — Four eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls water, 2 
tablespoonfuls butter, salt and pepper. Beat yolks and whites 
separately; add water; mix whites and yolks lightly; add salt 
and pepper. Melt butter in pan. When hot, pour in eggs and 
cook until set on sides and bottom. Finish cooking in hot 
oven ; fold, turn on hot dish and pour tomato sauce over. 

Tomato Sauce — Two tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons 
flour, ^ teaspoon onion juice, 1 cup strained tomatoes. 



18 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Egg Cutlets — Make sauce of % cup milk and 2 large 
tablespoonfuls flour ,add to this 4 hard boiled eggs, chopped 
fine, 1 small onion, chopped, parsley, a dash of nutmeg, pepper, 
salt. When cold, mould, dip in egg and bread crumbs and 
fry. LORENE FOX WAGNER. 

Bread Omelette — Four eggs, ^/^ cup milk, ^/^ cup stale 
bread crumbs, 1 tablespoon butter, ^ teaspoon salt, Ys tea- 
spoon pepper. Soak bread crumbs in milk for 15 minutes, add 
beaten yolks and seasoning. Fold in whites and bake in the 
oven in a casserole. YORK. 

Egg Cutlets With Tomato Sauce — Four eggs, 1 cup of 
milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 3^ teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon 
onion juice, dash of pepper and paprika, 1 tablespoonful 
chopped parsley. Boil eggs hard, chop the whites fine, add to 
cream sauce, add salt pepper, parsley and mashed yolks of 
eggs. Spread on platter to cool. When firm take up 1 table- 
spoonful in hand and form into chops, dip in bread crumbs and 
egg. Fry in hot fat. Serve on platter with tomoto sauce. 

NELUE GERY. 

BACON 

"As in some Irish houses where things are so so 
One gamin of bacon hangs up for a show; 
But for eating a rasher of what they take pride in, 
They'd as soon think of eating the pan it is fried in." 

— Goldsmith. 

It is said, of all meats bacon is the most extravagant in 
price and it will probably never be low priced again. It will,. 
however, always be a gerat addition to the menu so that to 
know the best ways of using it is a necessity if one is to^ 
cook well. 

The drippings from bacon are the best sort of shortening- 
for cookies and every-day pastry, therefore every bit of the fat 
that renders out in cooking should be strained and saved 
for such uses. This reduces the first cost of the meat very 
much. 



BREAKFAST 19 

All left over bacon makes excellent seasoning for meat 
loaves; and may be nicely browned for garnishing by being 
dipped into egg batter and then in fine bread crumbs and 
placed in a hot oven until golden brown. 

Sometimes bacon is too salty and requires soaking in 
hot water after it is cut. After that the salty taste is gone. 

If you have always fried your bacon or broiled it over a 
hot fire, try it broiled in this manner : Use any wire broiler 
or rack, spread out the slices just touching not covering one 
another on it, and placed over a dripping pan in a hot oven» 
Inferior bacon becomes fine tasting when broiled so, and 
best bacon delicious. 

Hominy and Bacon — Ingredients — Three cups cold boiled 
hominy, % pound thinly sliced bacon, 1 teaspoon salt and 
pepper, sprigs of parsley. This makes a good breakfast dish. 
Method — Put the bacon in a hot pan and fry nice and brown, 
be sure and turn often. Remove the bacon on a hot platter 
and keep warm. Then put the hominy into the hot pan. 
Place over a quick fire and slightly brown. Dust with salt 
and pepper. Pile in center, parsley. A breakfast dish for 
cool mornings. 

Fried Apples — A pleasant tart apple should be used, and 
those with thin skin. Wash and wipe, then slice without peel- 
ing. Put 2 spoonfuls of butter in a spider with a few spoon- 
fuls of hot water, pour in the apples and cover closely; do 
not stir them. When done, put a little sugar in a dish and 
pour the apples out over it and sift a little sugar over the top. 
Fall pippins are fine for this dish. 



20 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 

TOAST 

Toast is not only an invalid's dish but is a delicious sub- 
stitute for the oatmeal or other cereal used by most people 
for breakfast, and is also often used with a cereal instead of 
other bread for breakfast. It is also very good if broken into 
bits and eaten with cream. 

The usual way of putting a slice of bread on a fork, hold- 
ing it over a fire until brown on one side, then turning to 
brown on the other side, covering it with butter, is a sure way 
to indigestion if taken by a healthy person, and when given 
to an invalid is simply barbarous. 

Toast, to be easily digested, should never be buttered, it 
covers up the starch and saturates the gluten. Cut a stale 
loaf of bread into slices and place them in a hot oven until 
they are a delicate brown all the way through, when they 
will be found crisp and brittle. When the bread is thoroughly 
l)rowned through and you have more than you wish to use, 
after it is cool, pack it away in a tin box and it will stay 
crisp for two or three days. Either brown or white bread 
makes a good toast but graham bread is to be preferred. 

Cream Toast — A nice cream toast can be quickly prepared 
by taking a dozen or more of the crisp slices and dipping 
each into hot milk or hot water, and packing them closely 
together to moisten them through. Then take enough cream 
or new milk to completely cover them, boil with a little flour 
or cornstarch, flavor with salt and pour over toast. 

Snow Flake Toast — One quart milk, ^ cup cream, a little 
salt, 1 tablespoon flour, whites of 2 eggs. Mix a tablespoon of 
flour with a little of the milk, and add when the rest of the 
milk is boiling hot. Let it cook until the milk has no raw 
taste. Have ready the whites of 2 eggs thoroughly beaten, 
and after the milk and cream are thoroughly cooked stir in 
the whites of the eggs and allow it to stay over the fire Y^ 
minute to coagulate the eggs. This quantity is enough for 
12 slices of bread well toasted. Dip the slices in hot milk. 
Take out quickly and pack together for about 3 minutes. 
Pour the snow flake mixture over them. 



BREAKFAST 21 



Cream Toast With Poached Eggs — Prepare the toast as 
above, lay each slice neatly in a saucer before adding the 
cream dressing, and then finish with a delicately poached 
egg. Eggs broken into separate sauce dishes or patty pans 
and steamed until the whites are set, will look better than 
those slipped off of a saucer. 

French Toast — Take pieces of stale bread not toasted, dip 
in milk and then in the beaten egg. Fry on both sides a nice 
brown. The more eggs, the better the toast. 



COFFEE 

One heaping tablespoonful of cofifee to each measuring 
cup of cold water. Beat up 1 whole egg and add about 1-3 
of the egg to about six cups of the cold water. Thereby mak- 
ing 1 egg do three mornings for a small family. Stir all 
together and let come to a boil, then allow it to simmer gently 
for 8 or 10 minutes. This recipe is for those who like strong 
coffee. HANNAH STREET. 



Coffee for many or few is seldom better than when this 
rule is followed : Four well rounded tablespoonfuls of finely 
ground coffee to 1 quart of water, allowing 1 egg to every 
gallon of coffee to be made. Stir egg and coffee well together 
and add cold all the water to be used, and put over the fire 
to boil. Stir frequently until the boiling point is reached. 
When the whole has boiled a few minutes, place it where it 
will no longer boil, but keep very hot. 

This completes the breakfast and now we will have a 
few words to say about luncheon before going to dinner. 



22 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



LUNCHEON 



Luncheon is not necessarily a meal, merely to use up 
left overs. The thrifty housewife will so arrange and gauge 
her meals never to have many left overs but I have a few 
rules here which will be a help to any housewife to follow : 

1. When serving cold meat always have a soup. 

2. When having a stew or hash or a meat prepared from 
left overs omit the soup. 

3. When having boiled or fried fish omit the soup. 

4. Have one hot vegetable either made of left overs or 
something you have not had for dinner. 

5. Have a salad with cheese as the last course and no 
"dessert. 

6. Always have a salad with fish. 

7. When you have no salad you can have a light dessert, 
t)ut no ice-cream. 

8. If fond of hot breads or biscuits luncheon is the time 
for them, then omitting the vegetable, using hot bread and 
preserves instead. 

9. Tea. 

The foods for luncheon will be found in other parts of the 
book. 



LUNCHEON 23 



PARTY LUNCHEON 

The following menu for luncheon is from a very old 
cook book and puts all the rules given to shame, for it says 
five or six courses make a dainty and toothsome repast. In 
winter have oysters on the half shell with a piece of cut, not 
sliced, lemon. Then serve a clear soup, or puree of tomatoes, 
asparagus or peas. For the third course, lamb chops, broiled 
or breaded with French peas ; with this mashed or browned 
potatoes. A salad should come next either of lettuce or to- 
matoes with mayonnaise or French dressing. Thin crackers 
with a good cheese should be passed with the salad. If you 
wish to order an ice from a confectioner do so ; if not some 
sweets, such as preserved ginger ; strawberries and cake 
should come next, followed by small cups of strong coffee 
with cream and sugar passed. Sweet breads could be used 
instead of chops. 



24 CIvUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



DINNER 



" All human history attests 
That happiness for man — the hungry sinner 
Since Eve ate apples, much depends on dinner." 

— Byron. 

" Their various cares in one great point 
The business of their lives, that is — to dine combine." 

— Young. 

Dinner is our next consideration, but it would be a waste 
of time to take it up as we did breakfast, for there is such an 
endless variety of dishes for dinner, both of meats and vege- 
tables; and of deserts there is no end. We are indebted to 
Congressman Dewalt for all that is said about meats, com- 
position and cooking, and economical use of meat in the 
home. It would be well for every housekeeper to have copies 
of Farmer's Bulletins Numbers 34 and 391 in their cook books. 

There are many ways of serving a dinner. The most 
popular menu for a home, every day dinner, is soup, preferably 
a light one ; then one meat with usually two vegetables except 
in summer when two are served besides the potatoes which 
should always be in a dinner menu. We will give the recipes 
in the order in which they would be served at a dinner, be- 
ginning with soup. 

SOUPS 

" The onion is a homely plant, and rank as most that grows — 
And yet it beats to mix with soup the lily or the rose." 

There are more than five hundred different kinds of soup, 
but they can be divided into a few distinct classes — such as 
broths, clear soups, thick soups and purees. 

Broths — The unclarified liquor in which chicken, veal, 
beef, or mutton is cooked forms this class. 



DINNER 25 



Clear Soup — A good clear soup is made of double stock, 
that is good beef broth, strengthened with veal, to improve its 
flavor. 

Thick Soups — Stock of any kind, white, brown or vege- 
tables, is used in these soups, but soups of this kind are usually 
garnished as well as thickened. 

Purees — These soups differ from other thick soups be- 
cause they are thickened by the ingredients of which they are 
made, such as bisque of lobster, puree of peas, beans and 
lentils. But in all cases the substances composing the soup 
are rubbed through a sieve and served in the soup. 

Flavoring for Soup — The ones most commonly used and 
easily obtained are turnips, carrots, onions, celery, parsley, 
thyme, bay leaf and potatoes. 

Seasonings for Soup — In addition to salt and pepper 
which are the ordinary seasonings, but which must be added 
with caution, are nutmeg, allspice, mace, sugar and cinnamon, 
but often an overdose of these ruins a good soup. 

STOCK 

A few general directions for stock will be found useful : 

1. Beef makes the best brown stock, therefore stock for 
good consomme or clear soup should be made of beef or veal, 
and part of a fowl which gives it a better flavor. 

2. White stock is made from veal bones and remains of 
poultry and calves' feet. The liquor in which calves' feet 
or poultry has been boiled makes a good white stock. 

3. Stock meat should be lean and fresh as possible. 
Never wash meat unless you must, as it robs it of its flavor. 

4. The usual allowance of water is 1 quart to each pound 
of meat. 

5. The meat should stand in the water for a few minutes 
and be gradually heated until it reaches boiling point, then 
when the scum has been removed, it should be kept at sim- 
mering point. 



26 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 

6. The vegetables should be either whole or in large 
pieces and be added after the stock has boiled. 

7. Vegetables should be used sparingly, for too much 
seasoning often spoils and ruins a good soup. 

8. To 4 quarts of water 1 carrot, 1 onion, y^ turnip and 
1 stalk of celery, a teaspoon of salt, and some cooks say never 
use ground pepper, as it makes any soup cloudy, but to the 
above use 12 pepper corns. 

9. The stock should simmer very slowly for 5 or 6 hours, 
then strained and the meat and sediment removed. 

10. When cold all fat should be taken of? the top. 

11. All unused stock should be boiled up every day in 
hot weather, and in cooler weather every two or three days. 

Stock No. 2 

Get a beef shank and cheap piece of lamb ; cook all day in 
salted water ; strain, and skim ofif all fat, and this makes a 
foundation for many fine soups. 

Bouillon, consomme, or tomato soups are the favorite to 
begin a dinner, also a plain cream or milk soup seasoned 
highly with either celery, asparagus, potato, or corn. Each 
flavoring makes the soup. 

The heavier soups such as vegetable, calf's head or clam 
chowder are best for luncheon. 

French Bouillon — Take 5 or 6 pounds of the fleshy part 
of the shin of beef (the neck of beef is sometimes used), pour 
on the meat 3 quarts of cold water. When it has been brought 
to a boil, skim well and throw in IJ^ ounces of salt, a half 
dozen pepper corns, ^ dozen cloves and 2 blades of mace. Put 
in 2 small carrots, 1 turnip, 1 onion, and the heart of the root 
of celery or 2 stalks. The vegetables should be kept whole. A 
little caramel can be used to darken the soup. When it has 
simmered gently for 4 or 5 hours, take out the vegetables and 
meat and strain through a fine sieve. When perfectly cold, 
clear off every particle of fat. Heat again when using. 



DINNER 27 



Consomme — Place a saucepan with 2 quarts of boiling 
water over the fire, add part of a carrot, 1 finely cut onion, 2 
stalks of celery, tie together J^ handful of barley, 1 bay leaf, 
3 cloves, 6 whole peppers, add it also to the same pan, cover 
and boil 1 hour, then strain ; add 1 quart of soup stock ; season 
with salt and pepper (cayenne). If liked, add 1 tablespoon of 
Worcestershire sauce. 

Cream of Vegetable Soup — This soup is easily and quick- 
ly made if you will take the trouble to save small quantities of 
left overs in the vegetable line from several dinners ; tomatoes, 
peas, corn, a little rice or macaroni, an onion or two, parsley 
and celery. Put all together with enough water to boil. If 
you have no cold boiled potatoes, cut up a few raw ones and 
boil soft first. When everything is together add 1 quart of 
milk, bring to a boil, stir in a little flour mixed smooth with 
milk. A little Worcester sauce or kitchen boquet will im- 
prove it. YORK. 

Clam Soup — One quart of clams, strain, boil liquor and 
skim. Put in as much water and milk as liquor. Run clams 
through grinder, season with pepper and salt, a pinch of curry 
and celery salt to taste, also a large piece of butter. Then 
throw in the clams. Take a tablespoon of flour, piece of 
butter the size of a walnut, mix with milk or water, and 3 
hard boiled eggs chopped fine. Boil about 20 minutes. 

MRS. SUSAN HUBER. 

Puree of Split Peas — An excellent green soup. Soak 1 
cup of green split peas over night. In the morning pour off 
any water that has not been absorbed and add to the peas 4 
times their quantity of cold water. That is — if the soaked 
peas measure 2 cups, then you must add 8 cups of water. 
Add also ^ onion sliced to each quart of water. Stand over a 
slow fire and let simmer gently until the peas are soft. Rub 
through a sieve, season with salt and pepper and a little 
kitchen boquet and return to the fire. If the soup has sim- 
mered slowly, no thickening will be required. If obliged to 
hurry use 1 teaspoon flour and butter rubbed smooth to each 
quart of soup. Serve with slices of hard boiled eggs. 



CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Cherry Soup — For this most invigorating hot weather 
soup sweet or sour cherries may be used ; preferably sour ; 1 
quart stoned cherries, 1 quart water, sugar to taste. Boil until 
cherries are transparent; thicken by adding 1 heaping table- 
spoonful of corn starch moistened with cold water. Boil 
until clear and serve piping hot to get best tonic effects. Not 
to be despised ice cold. This quantity will serve 8 persons. 

MARTHA WEIS KASE. 



Cream of Corn Soup — One can of cream of corn, add 1 
pint of water, and 2 slices of onion. Put in a double boiler 
for % of an hour, then strain through a sieve. Put into the 
boiler 1 tablespoonful of butter and 1 of flour well blended, 
add 1 pint of sweet milk. After it starts boiling, add the 
cream of corn, salt and pepper to taste and some chopped 
parsley. It need only boil a few minutes. When serving, 
put a tablespoonful of whipped cream on each cup or plate. 

MRS. SMYSER WILLIAMS. 



Puree of Chestnuts — Peel sixty chestnuts, scald in boil- 
ing water, remove inside skin ; when done pass them through 
a fine sieve, add enough stock to make the soup thick enough 
and pour over slices of fried bread. It must be served very 
hot. 



Cream of Corn Soup — One cup of crushed corn, 3 cups of 
milk, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 
white pepper, 1 cup water. Put the corn through chopper and 
put in top of double boiler. Boil 5 minutes, add the milk and 
when boiling add the flour and butter previously rubbed 
smooth. Boil 3 minutes, add salt and pepper. 



Cream of Celery Soup — Cut one nice stalk of celery into 
small sections. Boil the celery and a tablespoonful of rice in 
salted water until tender, add a pat of butter rolled in flour 
and peppered, and two cups of hot new milk. 



DINNER 29 



Scotch Soup — Into three quarts of water boil three pounds 
of beef three hours. At the end of the first hour put in three 
tablespoonfuls of barley. At the end of the third hour put in 
1 teaspoonful salt and a sprinkling of pepper. You will have 
three pints of delicious, nourishing soup. 

MINTA FULTON. 

Cream of Tomato Bisque — Heat the contents of a can of 
tomato soup and an equal quantity of milk separately. 
Bring- them to the boiling point, but do not let them boil. 
When ready to serve take them from over the fire and pour 
the hot soup into the hot milk, not the reverse. Remember 
that boiling curdles milk. This does not hurt the flavor of 
the soup but afifects the smooth and pleasing appearance. 
This soup is not only delicious to taste, but is decidedly whole- 
some and nourishing. 

Macaroni Soup — Soak 1 breakfast cupful of small maca- 
roni in water all night. In the morning drain the water from 
it and put it in an enameled saucepan with cold water. Slice 
and chop a Spanish onion and add it with a little salt, and let 
boil until quite soft and the water is nearly all absorbed. 
Then add milk thickened with a little cornflour rubbed in a 
small piece of butter. FANNY BARON, London, England. 

FISH AND OYSTERS 

" Master; I marvel how the fishes live in the sea. 
Why as men do a' land, the great ones eat up the little ones." 

—Pope. 
In preparing fish of any sort or kind, the very first thing 
is to see that it is perfectly clean, but if it is washed too 
much it will lose its flavor. The only way to clean a fish is 
to wipe it thoroughly with a clean damp cloth. If the fish 
is to be boiled a little vinegar and salt should be added to the 
water after it is cleaned to make it firm. Hot water should 
never be poured over the fish, but added gradually and 
gently. If the water is too hot, it breaks the skin ; if too 
cold it loses its flavor. Fish to be broiled must be seasoned 
and flavored and put on a very clean gridiron which should 
be rubbed with a piece of suet to prevent it from sticking. 
Fish can be boiled, broiled, fried. It may also be baked, 
stewed, and made into soups. 



CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Fish Cutlets — Boil 2^^ pounds of fresh cod, pick in fine 
shreds. Make a thick drawn butter and season highly with 
butter, salt and cayenne pepper. Pour the drawn butter over 
the fish and mix thoroughly. When cold mold into cutlets. 
Dip in egg and cracker crumbs and fry. YORK. 

Broiled Brook Trout — A broiling trout should not be 
less than 8 inches long. Clean by slitting down the back so 
that the fish can be spread out like a salt mackerel. Do not 
place the trout in water at any time; use only enough cold 
water to cleanse the fish. Wipe both sides thoroughly dry 
with a cloth and sprinkle with salt. Place the fleshy side of 
the spread out fish on the broiler next to the fire ; when suffi- 
ciently browned turn the fleshy side up and baste freely with 
butter while the skin side is broiling. When the fish is done 
fold together and serve immediately. The true flavor of the 
brook trout can only be had when the broiling takes place 
immediately after the fish is killed. 

JUDGE AND MRS. A. S. SWARTZ. 

Soft-Shell Crabs — Lift the shell and extract the spongy 
substance on the back and pull off the loose shell on the under 
side which is called the apron. If they are sandy wipe them 
with a damp cloth, but do not let them lie in water at all. 
Dip them in egg and in cracker crumbs and fry about 10 
minutes in hot lard. Serve with Tartare Sauce. 

Fish Chowder — One pound cod, haddock, or whiting, 
3 or 4 potatoes peeled and sliced, }i pound pork cut in dice, 
1 small onion finely chopped, 3 water biscuits, J/^ pint of milk, 
1 pint of water, y^ teaspoon mixed herbs, salt and pepper. 
Wash and dry the fish and cut in small pieces, place the fish, 
potatoes, and pork in a stew pan, in alternate layers, sprinkling 
each layer with onion, herbs, salt and pepper, add the water. 
Cover closely and cook gently for 40 minutes. Meanwhile 
soak the biscuits in the milk, beat out the lumps with a fork 
and stir them into the stew, add seasoning to taste and serve 
hot. 

Fish Sauce — One-fourth pound of butter, 1 teaspoonful 
chopped parsley, a little salt and pepper and the juice of two 
lemons. Cream butter. Mix all well together. 



DINNER 31 



Creamed Sauce for Fish (Boiled) — Heat 1 coffee cupful 
of milk to boiling point, stir in a teaspoon of corn starch wet 
with a little cold milk. When this thickens, add two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, a little pepper, and salt, and a little 
chopped parsley. Beat an tgg light, pour same over the egg 
gradually, put over fire and stir 1 minute; pour over fish. 

Creamed Tuna Fish — One can of Tuna fish, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, 1 tablespoonful flour, salt, cayenne and a little 
nutmeg, 1 cupful milk, a squeeze of lemon juice, 1 wineglass 
of sherry. Melt butter, add to flour, salt, cayenne and nutmeg. 
When smooth add the milk, then the fish and lemon juice; 
lastly the wine. Cook 5 minutes and serve on crackers or 
toast. 



Fish Croquettes — Rub together 2 tablespoonful s of flour 
and 1 of butter and stir in y^ pint of milk. Add a teaspoonful 
of finely chopped parsley, and % teaspoonful of onion juice. 
Cook this paste until it is thick, add 2 cups of cold boiled fish 
and boil up again. Remove it from the fire, season with salt 
and pepper. When cold make into balls or cylinders. Dip 
in beaten egg and crumbs and fry. 



Fish Mould — One-half pound of cooked fish coarsely 
chopped, 1 good teacupful of bread crumbs, 2 ounces of butter 
melted, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, cayenne pepper 
and salt. White:* oyster, or other fish sauce. Mix the fish and 
bread crumbs, and season highly with pepper, salt, cayenne, 
mixed well together, and moisten with the egg, butter and 
anchovy essence. Steam gently about lj4- hours. Serve 
with a little sauce poured around. 



Tartare Sauce for Crabs or Fish — Rub the yolks of 2 eggs 
to a paste with a tablespoonful of dry mustard, a teaspoonful 
of salt and % teaspoonful of pepper. Add gradually 4 table- 
spoonfuls of oil, beating until a thick jelly, then very gradually, 
3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar and 1 teaspoonful of onion juice. 
Lastly add 1 tablespoon of chopped capers and one of pickles. 



32 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Escolloped Eggs and Oysters — Melt some butter, season 
with salt, pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, chopped parsley 
and chives. Cook 4 dozen oysters in this sauce and when 
nearly done, add 5 or 6 sliced hard boiled eggs. Simmer over 
a slow fire for ^4 of an hour. Pour in scollop shells, sprinkle 
with grated bread crust and brown in oven. 

Escolloped Oysters — To 50 oysters (a salt oyster being 
the best) take 4 hard boiled eggs chopped fine, ^ pound but- 
ter, two or 3 cups of fine bread crumbs. Divide the oysters, 
eggs and bread crumbs into two parts. Put Yz the oysters 
into a buttered pudding dish, season with salt and pepper and 
a pinch of cayenne, then put a layer of Yz of the chopped 
eggs and dots of ^ the butter, then a layer of Y2. the bread 
crumbs; make the next layer just the same way, but cover 
thickly on top with bread crumbs and dots of butter. Pour 
in a little milk and bake in oven about an hour. 

ANNIE SNYDER. 

Clams in Casserole — One dozen clams put through the 
meat grinder, 2 eggs, 1 cup bread crumbs, 3^ cup cream, 2 
tablespoonfuls melted butter, mince onion, parsley, salt and 
pepper to taste. INEZ RASHBRIDE. 

Salmon Loaf — One can of salmon, 4 tablespoonfuls melted 
butter, Yz cup fine bread crumbs, 3 eggs beaten light, juice of 
1 lemon, seasoning. Steam 1 hour and bro^n. Serve with 
cream sauce or cold with lettuce or mayonnaise. 

ANNA L. HUFFORD. 

Fricassee of Oysters — Drain one quart of oysters and put 
the liquor on to boil. Rub together one tablespoonful of 
butter and one of flour, add to the boiling liquor and stir it 
until it thickens. Season with salt, a very little cayenne 
pepper and a blade of mace. Remove it from the fire and 
add the beaten yolks of two eggs. Mix thoroughly and return 
to the fire, stirring for a minute or two. Put in the oysters 
and boil up again. Pour over slices of buttered toast and 
serve. 



DINNER 



Oyster Croquettes — To 25 oysters 1 gill of oyster liquor, 
1 gill cream, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 tablespoons flour, 1 table- 
spoon chopped parsley, Y^. nutmeg grated. Put oysters on to 
boil in their own liquor and stir constantly for 5 minutes. 
Take from fire and drain. Chop oysters very fine. Now put 
into a sauce pan 1 gill of liquor, and the cream, parsley, 
cayenne, nutmeg and salt. Rub together the butter and 
flour, add this to the boiling liquor and cream, stir until it 
boils (over the fire) for 1 minute ; turn it out to cool ; when 
cold form into cylinders, roll in beaten egg and bread crumbs 
and fry in boiling oil or lard. It is best to mix this several 
hours before using, moulding and frying a few minutes before 
serving. This quantity makes 6 croquettes. It is said Mrs. 
Rorer adds the yolks of 2 eggs which is an improvement. 

ACEOLA COOK BOOK. 

Oyster Peacemakers — This consists of a small hot roll 
scooped out and filled with creamed oysters. Use small rolls, 
as they are much daintier. 

Oyster Stuffing — Twelve large oysters, 1 gill of stock, 4 
ounces soft white bread crumbs, a little grated lemon peel, 
1 dessert spoon chopped parsley, 1 pinch of mace, 1^^ ounces 
of butter, salt and pepper to taste. Beard the oysters, save the 
liquor, and put it with the stock and beards and bring it to 
a boil. Let it simmer until you have drawn the flavor from 
the beards, then strain. Mix together bread crumbs, grated 
lemon, chopped parsley, salt, pepper, butter, mace and the 
oysters chopped? Bind the mixture wath the egg and as 
much of the oyster stock as will bring it to the proper con- 
sistency. Use for stuffing fish and poultry. 

Oyster Sauce — Twelve sauce oysters, 1 ounce of butter, 
a teaspoonful of lemon juice, the yolk of 1 egg, % of a pint of 
Bechamel sauce. Remove the beards and put them with the 
butter into a sauce pan and cook, not boil, for 4 minutes, 
then drain well and halve or quarter them. Reduce the liquor 
to yi, then strain and return to pan, add the Bechamel sauce 
when hot, also the yolk of the egg and lemon juice and 
oysters. Stir until the oysters are quite hot. Season, if 
necessary, with a little salt and pepper. 



CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Lobster or Salmon Chops — One cup of sweet cream, 1 
can of lobster or salmon, 3 tablespoons of butter, 3 even table- 
spoons of flour, 1 scant teaspoon salt, ^ teaspoon mustard, 3 
hard boiled eggs. Melt butter, add flour, take off stove, pour 
cream in slowly, put back on stove to thicken. Have lobster 
or salmon broken in small pieces. After sauce is thick and 
creamy, add the hard boiled yolks, first crushing them and 
put with them the dry ingredients. Mix with a little cream, 
then add to sauce the lobster or salmon. Spread on a platter 
to cool. After it is cold form into chops, dip in eggs and 
bread crumbs. Fry in very hot fat. NELLIE GERY. 

Lobster a la Newberg — One lobster, l]^ pounds in weight, 
shredded, 1 cup of cream. Add 1 tablespoonful of flour and 
1 tablespoonful of butter creamed, and stir constantly until 
thickened. Season with salt, pepper and a little nutmeg. 
Add lobster and when hot put in 1 tablespoonful of sherry 
wine. Serve at once. NORRISTOWN. 

Fried Oysters — For 1 dozen large oysters break 2 eggs 
and beat well without separating, add J^ cup of cold water 
and a little salt and pepper. Take the oysters from the liquor 
without drying and dip lightly in coarse cracker dust, then 
in the bea-ten egg, then in the cracker dust again, and fry 
in smoking hot fat. MRS. OGDEN. 

Escolloped Oysters — Thirty medium-sized oysters, 3 cups 
of dried bread crumbs, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 1 tea- 
spoonful salt, Yi teaspoonful pepper and 1 cup of milk. Brush 
baking dish with butter and put 1 cup of crumbs in bottom. 
Then add 15 oysters, a little salt and pepper, another cup of 
crumbs, spread evenly over the oysters; then the other 15 
oysters, salt and pepper and the balance of crumbs. On top 
salt and pepper and add the butter in small bits. Pour the 
milk over top ; set in hot oven and bake 25 minutes. Garnish 
with parsley or water-cress. 



DINNER 35 



COMBINATIONS FOR MEATS VEGETABLES AND 
SAUCES 

Experience and judgment are both required to associate 
foods in such a way that will be both attractive and whole- 
some, and many mistakes are made. Having found these 
combinations in an old book thought it well to copy them, but 
years have brought their changes in cooking and this is only 
a suggestion. Sauces, too, are such an important part of the 
meal, that they can either make or mar an otherwise uninter- 
esting dish. It is my desire to give you the meat with the 
vegetable, also the sauce which may or may not be used. 

Soup — Meat soup is generally accompanied by bread only. 

Pickles and crackers are served with oyster soup. 

Grated cheese is often passed with macaroni or vermicelli 
soup. 

Hot boiled rice is served with Gumbo soup. It is boiled 
until perfectly soft, but not enough to break the grains, and 
is often placed in a dish beside the soup tureen. In serving, 
the hostess pours a ladleful of soup into each plate and lays 
a spoonful of rice in the centre. It is a French custom to offer 
2-inch squares of thinly sliced and buttered brown bread 
with soup. 

Cold slaw is delicious with soup, being eaten at the same 
time, or just after the soup plates have been removed. 



-•36 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Fish — When fish is served as a course at dinner, potatoes 
are usually the only vegetable presented. They are often cut 
in little balls an inch in diameter and are fried brown and 
arranged around the fish in little piles as a garnish, but some- 
times the potatoes are simply boiled and arranged in another 
dish. 

Fish for baking is occasionally stuffed vi^ith seasoned 
mashed potatoes and small potato cakes that have been dipped 
in egg, laid in bread crumbs and fried, are served about the 
fish. Some cooks serve cucumbers, oil dressing, with fish. 

Sauces for Fish 

Baked Fish — Drawn butter, Hollandaise sauce, melted 
iDutter with finely chopped parsley. 

Broiled Fish — Maitre d'Hotel or Tartare sauce. 

Boiled Fish — Plain white sauce or egg sauce. 

Beef — Almost any vegetable may be eaten with beef. 
If potatoes are not served with the fish course, they generally 
accompany the beef, being mashed or fried in balls or cooked 
in any preferred way. When sweet potatoes are served, it is 
an error to serve squash, the two being too much alike. 

Sauce for Roast Beef — Brown gravy. Horseradish sauce. 

Company Dinners — Mushroom sauce. 

Roast Filet of Beef — Mushroom sauce. 

Corn Beef — This meat should be served with carrots, 
turnips, parsnips, or cabbage or with pickles about it. 

Turkey — Any vegetable may be served with this popular 
fowl, which is sometimes garnished with sausages made of 
pork or beef. 

Sauce for Turkey — Cranberry jelly, brown gravy and 
celery sauce. 



DINNER 37 



Chicken Fried — Fried chicken should always be accom- 
panied by cauliflower and a cream dressing. 

Chicken Fried — Cream gravy. 

Chicken Boiled — Should always have a dish of boiled rice. 

Fricasseed — A row of baked potatoes makes a pretty gar- 
nish about a roast chicken. 

Chicken Sauce for Roast Chicken — Bread sauce, brown 
gravy. Grape jelly. 

Sauce for Boiled Chicken — Bread, parsley, or celery sauce. 

Lamb or Mutton — Green peas, spinach, cauliflower, and 
asparagus are liked with either of these meats, and currant 
jelly should be added as a relish. 

Sauce for Roast Lamb — Mint sauce. 

Sauce for Boiled Mutton — Caper or parsley sauce. 

Pork — The most judicious foods to serve with pork are 
fried apples, apple sauce, tomatoes and sweet or white pota- 
toes. If pork is offered in the form of sausage meat, apple 
sauce or fried apples should never be omitted. 

Sauce for Roasted Pork — Apple sauce, brown gravy. 
Thinly sliced pork or fried bacon forms a savory garnish for 
beef steak. Thin slices of pork, egged, bread crumbed and 
fried and served on slices of fried mush make a good break- 
fast dish and the pork alone may garnish fried chicken, beef- 
steak or breaded chops. 

Veal — Any vegetable may accompany this meat. 

Sauce for Roast Veal — Tomato sauce. Horseradish sauce. 

Goose — Apple sauce and turnips are always served with, 
goose. 

Sauce for Goose — Barberry jelly. 



38 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Game — Most epicures demand currant, plum, or some 
acid jelly with game. Saratoga potatoes, or potato balls, 
spinach, tomatoes, and salad are suitable side dishes. 

Sauce for Roast Venison — Brown gravy, currant or bar- 
berry jelly. 

Sauce for Roast Quail — Currant jelly, celery sauce. 

Sauce for Canvasback Duck — Black currant jelly. Olive 
sauce. 

Sweet Breads — At almost every company dinner or 
luncheon sweet breads are served with peas. They are de- 
licious, however, with tomatoes, cauliflower, or macaroni, or 
with tomato sauce, or cheese together with asparagus or 
succotash. 

Pork Sausage — Apple sauce or fried apple. 

Boiled Tongue — Tartare sauce. 

Lobster Cutlets — Tartare sauce. 

Broiled Steak — Maitre d'Hotel sauce. 

Lamb Shops — Bearnaise Sauce. 



ADVERTISEMENT 



DAVID S. AMMON EDWARD KERSHNER 



Attt^riratt 



WITH NEW ADDITION 



RATES: $2.50 to $3.50 

AMERICAN PLAN 



AMMON & KERSHNER READING, PA. 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 41 



42 RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 48 



44 RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 45 



46 RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 



MEATS 



MEATS 



Some hae meat that cannot eat, 
And some wad eat that want it; 
But we hae meat and we can eat 
Sae let the Lord be thank it." 



— Burns. 



Meat is in general one of the most digestible of food ma- 
terials, but it is undeniably one of the most expensive items 
in the food bill of the ordinary family. 

It is important to reduce waste by using as much as 
possible of the bone, fat, and trimmings not usually served 
with the meat itself. If nothing better can be done with 
them, the bones and trimmings can always be used in the 
soup kettle, and the fat can be saved for cooking, thus saving 
the more expensive butter and lard. Let us look into the 
three most common ways of using meat. 

Boiling— If a piece of meat is plunged into boiling water 
or very hot fat, it prevents the escape of the juices and flav- 
oring matters. Thus cooked it retains all its flavoring matter 
and has the desired meaty taste. The resulting broth is cor- 
respondingly poor. These statements will be of much help 
in the rational cooking of meats in water. The treatment de- 
pends largely upon what it is desired to do. It is impossible 
to make a rich broth and have a juicy, highly flavored piece of 
boiled meat at the same time. If the meat alone is to be 
used the cooking in water should be as follows : Plunge the 
cut of meat at once into a generous supply of boiling water 
and keep the water at boiling point for ten minutes. 

Stewing Meat — If both broth and the meat are to be 
used the process of cooking should be different from that for 
boiling meat. In stewing, the meat should be cut into small 
pieces and instead of being quickly plunged into hot water 
should be put into cold water, in order that much of the juice 
and flavoring materials be dissolved. The temperature should 
then be raised to about 180 F. where it should be kept for 



CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



several hours. Treated in this way the broth will be rich and 
the meat still tender and juicy. However, if the water is 
much hotter than 180 F., the meat will be dry and fibrous 
and prolonged boiling will only make it drier and firmer. 

Broths — The quantities of the ingredients in a meat broth 
may be illustrated by a German experiment: One pound of 
beef and 7 ounces of veal bones gave about 1 pint of strong 
broth or soup. Very palatable broths can be made by using 
more water and adding savory herbs. 

Roasting — The principal difference between roasting and 
boiling is in the medium in which the meat is cooked. In 
boiling the meat is surrounded by boiling water, in roasting 
by hot air, although in roasting proper much of the heat 
comes to the joint as radient heat. In both cases the fibres 
of the meat are cooked in their own juices. 

When the meat alone is to be eaten, either roasting, 
broiling or frying in deep fat is, when properly done, a more 
rational method than boiling, for the juices are very largely 
saved. It is interesting and at the same time important to 
remember that the smaller the cut to be roasted, the hotter 
should be the fire. An intensely hot fire coagulates the exter- 
ior and prevents the drying up of the meat juices. This 
method does not apply to large cuts, because meats are poor 
conductors and a large piece of meat would soon become 
burned on the exterior before it reached the interior. Hence 
the rule the smaller the cut the higher the temperature 
to which it should be exposed. The broiling of a steak or 
chop is done exactly on this principle. A steak exposed to 
an intense heat for ten minutes is thoroughly cooked and has 
yet that rare, juicy appearance which is so desirable. 

Vegetables of distinctive flavor, such as onions, carrots, 
or celery ; savory herbs such as parsley, thyme, and materials, 
such as vinegar, pickles or currant jelly; spices, such as pep- 
per, cloves, curry mixture and sharp or highly seasoned meat 
sauces are all types of flavoring materials which may be used 
in a great variety of ways. In fact the number of tasty dishes 
which a good cook can make out of the cheaper cuts of meat 



MEATS 



or meat leftovers is almost endless. Undoubtedly more time 
and skill are required in their preparation than in the simple 
cooking of the more expensive cuts, just as more time and 
skill are required for careful, intelligent marketing than for 
haphazard ordering. 

When Buying Meat — Remember that fresh beef should 
be firm to the touch and the fat should be cream colored. 
Avoid beef that looks moist. Mutton should be of a bright 
red color, with firm white fat. Reject any meat that has even 
a suspicion of an unpleasant odor. If meat isn't good no 
amount of cooking will render it wholesome. 

Economical Steak — Round steak cooked in exactly the 
same manner that pot roast is frequently prepared, is delicious 
and very economical, as every ounce paid for can be eaten. 
Sprinkle salt and pepper on the round steak, then cut the 
meat in pieces, dredging each piece thickly with flour. Have 
the frying pan containing drippings or butter very hot and 
"brown the steak. At the same time allow one onion to fry 
light brown in the pan. Cover the meat with cold water and 
allow it to cook slowly until the meat is tender and the sauce 
a rich brown. Serve the sauce on the platter with the meat. 
Veal cutlet cooked in this way is a pleasant variation from 
being breaded or fried brown. 

Roast Fillet of Beef — Dress and lard your fillet of beef 
and put to soak in salad oil, with salt, pepper, parsley, slices 
of raw onion, and a laurel leaf, for 12 hours. Roast on the 
spit for }i of an hour. Serve with its own gravy, simply 
adding a few drops of vinegar or the juice of a lemon. 

Roast Beef With Potatoes — Roast your joint of beef and 
serve with its own gravy. Boil some potatoes, warm them in 
melted butter, sprinkle with chopped parsley and hand in a 
separate dish. 

ICluskies or Meat Cakes — Mince 2 pounds of fresh pork 
very fine, add some bread crumbs soaked in wine, a little 
grated lemon peel, salt and pepper, roll into balls, flatten them, 
and fry in butter until a good color. 



CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Ham Baked in Sherry Wine — Take a small ham or part of 
a large one, boil until it becomes tender, then remove the 
skin and stick full of whole cloves, and sprinkle with pepper. 
Put in a baking pan or roaster and pour over ^ pint of 
sherry wine and % pint of water, put in oven and brown- 
Serve hot or cold. MRS. WM. P. IRELAND. 



Baked Ham — Take a thick slice of ham, rub into it on 
both sides 1 teaspoonful of dry mustard and ^ cup of brown 
sugar, cover it with one cup of hot milk. Cook slowly about 
1 hour in oven or until tender. 

MRS. AARON SWARTZ. 

Baked Ham — Soak over night, next day boil in some 
water until tender, with 1 cup of vinegar, 1 dozen bay leaves, 
Yi dozen cloves. When nearly done remove from water, 
take off skin, stick with cloves and cover with bread crumbs,, 
and sprinkle with white sugar. Bake until light brown. 

MARY BRISTER. 



Mock Terrapin — Butter size of a walnut, 1 tablespoonful 
of flour, 1 cup of milk, 1 ^gg hard boiled, 1 cup of lamb or 
veal, 1 onion, a pinch of parsley, salt and pepper, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of sherry wine. Melt butter, add flour and work 
smooth ; add milk, let thicken in double boiler. Season with 
parsley, salt and pepper, add tgg, chopped fine and onion 
(remember onion after boiled). Remove from stove and add 
wine. LILLIAN PETER. 

Fried Pig's Feet — Boil the pig's feet two hours or until 
very tender, cut them in half lengthwise ,and fry in butter with 
pan covered. They can be boiled 1 day and fried the next. 

ANNA BUSHBY. 

Calve's Liver — Cook liver until tender, chop fine, season 
with cayenne pepper, salt and Worcester sauce, a little mush- 
room catsup, and a dash of Madeira wine or good sherry. 
Serve in individual shells of china or paper. 



MEATS 



Swedish Meat Balls — One pound of Hamburg meat, 1 
onion chopped fine, ^ cup of bread crumbs, 1 level teaspoon- 
ful allspice ground not too fine, Yz teaspoonful salt, 3^ 
tablespoonfuls of milk. Mix into the meat and form into- 
small balls and fry in butter until browned and crispy. The 
gravy to this is fine. 



Beef Au Gratin — Cut into very thin slices enough cold,, 
cooked beef to serve six persons. Peel two large Spanish 
onions and cut in the thinnest of slices. In a heavy granite 
pan melt 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Add the onions and 
cook over a slow fire, shaking gently from time to time until 
they are a golden brown. Sprinkle into the butter two tea- 
spoonfuls of flour and cook until melted. Add gradually 1 
pint of clear beef stock, stirring briskly that the flour does-, 
not lump. Add one tablespoonful of tomato catsup and let 
all simmer. Put into a deep baking dish alternate layers of 
onion, sauce, and beef, cover with Y^. cup of browned bread 
•crumbs. Serve at once. 



Beef Patties — Take one pint of sliced, cold roast beef 
and heat in 1 scant cupful of gravy seasoned with mushroom 
catsup or Worcestershire. In another pan put 1 tablespoon 
grated onion, and 4 tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar and 
boil until reduced to 1 tablespoonful. To this add 1 table- 
spoon butter, a dash of salt and pepper, and the yolks of 2 
eggs. Stir over a hot fire until smooth and very thick. Fill 
heated patty cases with the hot meat, cover with 1 teaspoon- 
ful of the sauce and serve at once. 



Veal Loaf — Three pounds of chopped veal, butter size of 
an ^^g, 4 crackers crushed, 3 hard boiled eggs cut fine, 1 
teaspoonful black pepper, 1 tablespoonful salt, 1 tablespoonful 
sage, 1 tablespoonful minced parsley, 1 tablespoonful grated 
onion (if desired), 3 beaten eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls cream. Mix; 

hours. 

MRS. GEORGE STRICKLER. 



52 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Veal Cutlets — Cut your cutlets ^ inch thick and beat 
them as flat as possible without breaking the bone, rub them 
over with salt and pepper, dip into melted butter, sprinkle 
with grated cheese, e:gg and bread crumbs. Then, if not cov- 
-eied enough, dip a second time. Fry the cutlets in fresh 
butter, and drain. Serve either with Martre d'Hotel or to- 
mato sauce and garnish with a lemon cut in slices. 

Mutton Cutlets With Tomato Sauce — Trim your cutlets, 
<iip them into melted butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
and grill on a gridiron. Be careful to turn cutlets, serve them 
-at the end of 5 or 6 minutes with tomato sauce. 

Lamb Stewed With Green Peas — Cut the breast of lamb 
in pieces, and put into a stew pan with just enough water to 
-cover it; cover closely and let stew for 20 minutes; take off 
the scum, add 1 tablespoonful of salt and 1 quart of shelled 
green peas ; cover and let them stew for ^ hour ; mix 1 table- 
spoon of flour and butter, and stir in and let simmer for 10 
minutes. Then serve. If you mix the flour with cream, it ' 
makes it better. ACEOLA COOK BOOK. 

Savory Meat — Three pounds of lean, raw beef, chopped 
■very fine, 3 eggs, 6 soda crackers rolled very fine, 1 table- 
spoon salt, 1 teaspoon black pepper, 4 tablespoonfuls of 
cream, piece of butter size of a walnut. Press into shape and 
bake 2 hours. MRS. A. A. MARPLE, A Cook Book. 

Roast Beef Chauffe — Cold roast beef, tablespoonful of 
butter, 3 tablespoonfuls currant jelly, cayenne, salt, glass of 
sherry or Maderia. Cut beef in small pieces half an inch 
thick, put butter in chafing dish or pan, and when melted add 
the jelly and a dash of cayenne, little salt and wine. Add beef 
and serve hot. 

Calve's Head — One head boiled until tender, pick, boil 
"brains and chop fine, 3 eggs boiled hard, chop the whites. 
Take yolks and mash, add a little milk to moisten, red pepper, 
mustard and salt to taste, lumps of butter. Mix all together. 
Add 1 quart of stock or milk. Thicken with flour. Put in 
stove to heat, just before serving add 1 cup of sherry wine. 

MRS. M. S. PRICE. 



MEATS 53 



Ham Patty — To use up the remains of ham, take fat and 
lean together, pass through mincing machine, then pound to 
a smooth paste. Soak a slice of bread in milk and beat up 
to a cream; then mix in the ham and beat both together. 
Now beat to a froth 1 €:gg and stir it into the ham, season 
with salt and pepper and a little chopped parsley. Put the 
whole into a well greased mould and bake until brown. 

Turkey Chartreuse — Chop fine turkey meat, add an equal 
amount of fine soft bread crumbs, season highly with salt, 
pepper, onion juice and chopped parsley, then stir in enough 
stock to moisten. Pack this in the center of a buttered mold 
lined with boiled rice, cover with rice and steam for an hour. 
Serve with cream sauce. 

Savory Steak — One teacup bread crumbs with a little 
finely minced parsley and thyme. Season with salt and pep- 
per and moisten with milk. Put this on one side of a nice 
steak. Turn the steak and roll the stuffing inside, tie securely. 
Fry quickly in boiling fat. And then put in a saucepan with 
I teacup of water and stew gently (to simmer at the edge 
only) for 2 hours. FANNY BARON, 

Chorley Wood, England. 

Baked Liver — Fry a small quantity of chopped onion in a 
piece of butter the size of a hickory nut. Add 1 or 2 table- 
spoonfuls of chopped ham or bacon. Let it fry until a light 
brown. Then remove from the fire and add a small saucer of 
very fine bread crumbs. Season with pepper, no salt, as the 
ham is salt enough; 1 tgg beaten light, parsley and sweet 
marjoram. Cut incisions in the liver about 2 or 3 inches 
apart and fill with the filling. Put into a slow oven. Have 
a little butter melted with hot water and baste the liver with 
it until it begins to draw its own gravy, then baste with that, 

FANNY KEELY. 



54 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 

SWEET BREADS 

" Variety's the very spice of life 
That gives it all its flavor." — Cowper. 

Sweet Bread Patties With Oysters and Mushrooms — 

One-half pound of sw^eet-breads, 2 dozen oysters, 1 can or ^ 
pound fresh mushrooms, 3 hard boiled eggs, ^ cup of chopped 
celery, 1 tablespoon minced parsley, Yi. pint of cream, Yz pint 
of milk, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1 tablespoonful of flour, salt 
and cayenne to taste. Boil sweet breads 20 minutes in salt 
water, blanch and remove all skin, break into small pieces. 
Heat oysters in own liquor, until edges curl, strain. Heat 
cream and milk. Rub together flour, butter and seasoning, 
and mix with hot cream and milk. Stir until it boils and 
is very smooth. Mix all together and fill shells. For 1 dozen 
patty shells. MRS. IRVIN S. ERMENTROUT. 

Fried Sweet-Breads — Trim and blanch your sweet breads, 
and dip them into luke warm stock to which you have added 
melted butter, chopped herbs, onion, the juice of a lemon, salt 
and pepper. Dip them into a batter and fry a golden brown. 
Serve with tomato sauce and garnish with mushrooms. 

Lamb's Sweetbreads No. 1 — Put them in hot water and 
simmer for a full half hour. Pour away all but Yi pint of 
water and let simmer 2)'2 or 3 hours, when nearly done add 
salt and pepper, ketchup and thicken with 1 tablespoon of 
flour mixed with 2 tablespoonfuls cold water. Let boil 2 
minutes and serve. 

Lamb's Sweetbreads No. 2 — Two sweetbreads, 1 ^%%y 
breadcrumbs, ^4 pint of gravy, 3 tablespoonfuls sherry. Soak 
sweetbreads in cold water for 1 hour, then put in boiling water 
to render firm. Stew gently for 15 minutes; take them out 
and drain in a cloth. Brush over with yolk of ^^% and bread 
crumbs, fry in hot lard until brown. Heat the gravy, season 
with pepper and salt. Add sherry, pour over the sweetbreads 
and serve. FANNY BARON, 

Chorley Wood, England. 



MEATS 



Braised Sweetbreads (Very Fine) — Three pairs of sweet- 
breads, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 1 level tablespoonful of 
ilour, Yz pint of water, 1 teaspoonful grated carrot, 2 teaspoon- 
fuls grated onion, 1 teaspoonful salt, ^ teaspoonful pepper, ^ 
teaspoonful beef extract, 1 bay leaf, 1 small sprig of parsley, 

1 small teaspoonful lemon juice. Clean the sweet breads and 
let them soak 1 hour in cold water enough to cover them, in 
which 2 tablespoons of salt have been stirred ; then take them 
from the salt water and drop in a bowl of boiling water for 

2 minutes. Arrange them in a deep frying pan. Put the 
butter, herbs and vegetables in a frying pan and set on the 
range; cook slowly for 15 minutes, then add the flour and 
stir until the mixture boils, add the water gradually, stirring 
all the time; when this liquid boils stir in the meat extract, 
salt, pepper and lemon juice. Cook for 5 minutes and strain 
over the sweet breads ; cover the pan and put in a moderately 
hot oven, basting every 15 minutes with the gravy in the pan ; 
arrange the sweetbreads on a dish and pour brown mushroom 
sauce around them. MRS. AARON SWARTZ, 

Aceola Cook Book. 



ADVERTISEMENT 



►^v 






't'iSn 



Modern Ail-Year Health Resort 







WERNERS VI LLE, PA. 

REUBEN D. WENRICH. M. D. 



><i5=s^>:0. 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 57 



58 RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 59 



60 RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 61 



ft RECII'ES FROM MY FRIENDS 



SAUCES 



SAUCES 

" Hunger is the best sauce." 

It is very important that cooks should make a study of 
sauces and their relation to meats and vegetables, for a good 
sauce in the right place will make a good dish which would 
otherwise be very poor. The French are noted for their 
sauces and most of the ones I have used here were taken from 
a cook book by the Baron Busse in French and English, 
which was loaned me this summer. 

Brown Thickening — Brown thickening is the foundation 
of nearly all brown sauces and is made as follows : Take 1 
pound of fresh butter, melt it in a saucepan, skim it and when 
clear stir in 1 pound of flour, moisten with either water or 
stock, and stir with a wooden spoon until brown, when it 
will be ready for use. 

White Thickening — Prepare same as brown thickening, 
but do not leave on the fire long enough to become brown, 
as this thickening is used for white sauce. 

Be'chamel Sauce (for Cod) — Take a large lump of butter, 
a dessertspoonful of flour, salt, black pepper, a pinch of grated 
nutmeg, chopped parsley, stir into a tumblerful of cream and 
leave on fire until it boils. If too thick add a little more 
cream. 

Cheap Be'chamel Sauce — Take a lump of butter, some 
finely chopped parsley and chives, add 1 tablespoon of flour 
mixed in cream. Season with salt and pepper and a pinch 
of nutmeg. Stir over fire until quite thick. Pass through 
tammy and serve. Shred cod and pour over. 

Hollandaise Sauce (Baked Fish) — Put 4^ ounces of but- 
ter in a bowl, yolks of three eggs, a little salt and a teaspoon- 
ful of vinegar. Warm in a pan until it thickens. Just before 
serving add juice' of a lemon. 



64 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Tartare Sauce (Smelts, Lobster, Broiled Fish, Boiled 
Tongue and Lobster Cutlets)— Take 3 tablespoonfuls of be'- 
chamel sauce, stir in a bowl with yolks of 2 eggs, a little salt, 
pepper and grated nutmeg. When well mixed add some 
olive oil, drop by drop, until the sauce is quite thick. Flavor 
with a few drops of tarragon, and a little finely chopped 
chevril and eschalot, 

Maitre D'Hotel Butter (Salt Fish, Broiled or Fried, 
Broiled Steak) — Take a tablespoonful of mixed herbs com- 
posed half of finely chopped parsley, ^ tablespoonful of 
chevril leaves and }i of chopped water-cress. Mix into 1 
pound of fresh butter, add 1 or 2 chopped tarragon leaves, the 
juice of 1 lemon and the yolks of 2 eggs. This sauce will 
keep a long time. 

Maitre D'Hotel Sauce (Baked Beans) — Melt a large lump 
of butter, flavor with chopped herbs, salt and pepper. Warm 
the beans in this and serve very hot. 

Tomato Sauce (Mutton Cutlets, Veal Chops or Cutlets) — 

Cut some perfectly ripe tomatoes into halves, simmer for ^ 
hour in a saucepan, with some minced lean ham, thyme, 
laurel leaves and white pepper. Moisten with a teacupful of 
stock and simmer until quite thick. When required for use, a 
little butter can be added. 

Spanish Sauce — People often think this sauce is expensive 
to make, but the following recipe will show how simple it is 
to prepare. Cut up some trimmings and giblets of fowl, a little 
veal and a slice of ham. Warm in butter until brown, moisten 
with a tumblerful of white wine and the juice of 1 lemon, add 
a little stock and simmer by the side of the fire for several 
hours, pass through a tammy, clear off all grease and thicken 
a little. 

Drawn Butter — Two tablespoonfuls of butter, ^/^ pint of 
boiling water, 1 tablespoonful of flour, ^ teaspoonful of salt. 
Mix flour and butter together to a smooth paste in a bowl; 
place the bowl over the fire in a pan of boiling water ; add the 
Yi pint of boiling water ; gradually stirring all the while until 
it thickens; add the salt and use. 



SAUCES 65 

Cream Mushroom Sauce (Croquettes, Fillet of Beef) — 

Melt 1 tablespoonful of butter without browning ; add 1 table- 
spoonful of flour, stir until it is smooth ; then add ^ cupful of 
cream and Yz cupful of mushroom liquor, salt and pepper to 
taste ; cut J/2 can of mushrooms with a silver knife, and add 
just before the same begins to thicken. They should only 
cook long enough to be heated through, and served at once. 

MRS. A. S. 

Celery Sauce — Wash and cut into inch pieces 1 medium 
sized stalk of celery, and boil until tender in milk and water ; 
season with white pepper, nutmeg and salt, and thicken with 
a scant tablespoon of butter and flour rubbed together. 

Caper Sauce — Mix ^ pound of butter with the same 
quantity of flour, a tumblerful of water, salt and pepper in a 
saucepan. When boiling take off* the fire, stir in 3^ pound of 
butter ; put some capers in a sauce boat and pour the sauce 
over them. Do not allow this sauce to become too thick, and 
make just before serving. 

Curry Sauce — Take 3 ounces of butter and a dessert- 
spoonful of curry powder. Stir over the fire until the butter 
begins to melt. Moisten with strong stock or gravy, reduce, 
skim ofif all grease, and warm in a bain-marie. When ready 
to serve stir in a lump of butter and season a little more, if 
necessary. 

Anchovy Sauce — Skin and scrape some well soaked an- 
chovies, pass through a tammy and stir in the same quantity 
of butter as there is paste. 

Mint Sauce (Roast Lamb) — Reduce equal quantities of 
vinegar and water, sweeten with a lump of sugar and stir in 
some finely chopped mint. 

Robert Sauce — Brown some slices of onion in butter 
and add a little flour, moisten with stock, white wine and a 
few drops of vinegar. Boil for J^ hour, skim ofif all grease, 
season with salt and pepper. Stir in a teaspoonful of mustard 
and serve. 



CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Cream Sauce (for Vegetables) — Melt ^^ pound of butter^ 
add a little flour, salt and pepper, and a pinch of grated nut- 
meg-. Stir until quite thick, add 1 pint of cream and a little 
chopped parsley, leave on fire 5 minutes. 

Fresh Butter Sauce (Vegetables) — Melt some fresh but- 
ter, flavor with salt and pepper and chopped parsley. 

Sauce a la Bourgeoise (to be Handed with Boiled Beef or 
Boiled Fowl) — Take a large tablespoonful of chopped and 
blanched parsley, chevril and tarragon leaves, stir into a tea- 
spoonful of stock, add a dessertspoonful of strong gravy, 2 
teaspoonfuls French mustard, the same quantity of powdered 
sugar. Just before serving flavor with lemon juice and a 
little white pepper. 

A Good Sauce for All Roasts. No. 1 — Simmer a wineglass 
of red wine, an anchovy, a little stock, a chopped eschalot 
and the juice of 1 lemon in a saucepan. Pass through a 
tammy and mix with the gravy of your roast. 

A Good Sauce for Cold Scraps of Meat — Make some 
Robert Sauce and thicken with the yolks of 2 eggs ; flavor 
with a few drops of vinegar and mustard. Warm the scraps 
in the Robert Sauce before thickening it, and do not let it boil. 

Poor Man's Sauce (For a Cold Leg of Mutton) — Take 
equal quantities of water and vinegar, flavor with lemon juice, 
chopped eschalots, salt and pepper. Do not allow the sauce 
to boil, but cook over a moderate fire. 

These are only a few of the very many sauces that give 
that variety which is not only the spice of life, but even more 
the spice of the table ; as you see, they do not require much 
skill in making, but they make a very important addition to 
any meal, as well as being attractive and wholesome. 

Hard Brandy Sauce — Take ^ cup of butter, 2 cups of 
powdered sugar, 1 wineglass of brandy, 1 teaspoonful mixed 
cinnamon and mace. Warm the butter slightly, work in the 
sugar, and when this is light, add brandy and spices. 



SAUCES 67- 



White Wine Sauce — ^This sauce is so useful that it 
should always be on hand in every kitchen, and whenever any 
is used it should be replaced. Fill a fish pan nearly to the 
biim with white wine, a wineglass of brandy, the same quan- 
tity of sherry and season with salt and pepper, 2 cloves, a 
head of garlic, sliced onions, carrots, turnips, parsnips, celery, 
thyme and a lump of butter. Boil over a quick fire until 
reduced 1-3. If the wnne catches fire, don't worry, it will 
greatly improve the flavor of the sauce. When used for cook- 
ing fish make enough to cover the fish thoroughly. A cheaper 
way to make the sauce is to use equal parts of vinegar and 
water instead of wine, and omit some of the vegetables. 

Wine Sauce — Take 2 ounces of butter, 2 teaspoons of 
flour, ^ pint of boiling water, 1 gill of Maderia wine, yi 
pound of sugar, 3^ nutmeg. Mix flour and butter together, 
pour in the boiling water. Let it boil a few minutes, then add 
sugar and wine and grate in nutmeg. 

ANNIE SNYDER. 

Wine Sauce No. 2 — Mix 1 dessertspoonful of flour with a. 
little butter and y2 a wineglass of water, the juice of >^ a 
lemon, salt, pepper and a little nutmeg. Place on a quick 
fire and stir. When the sauce has boiled up two or three 
times take ofif fire and serve. 

Pepper Relish — Twelve green peppers (sweet), 12 red 
peppers (sweet), 15 small onions. Chop peppers and onions 
fine, pour over boiling water and let stand 5 minutes and 
drain. Again pour over boiling water and let stand 10 min- 
utes, drain, and add 1^ cups of sugar, 3 teaspoonfuls salt, 1 
quart of vinegar. Boil 15 minutes and can. 

LORENE FOX WAGNER. 

Bordeaux Sauce — Two quarts of green peppers cut fine, 
2 small heads of cabbage cut fine, 5 small onions cut fine, 2 
sweet red peppers, 2-3 tablespoonful of tumeric, 2-3 table- 
spoonful mustard seed, 2 tablespoonfuls of salt, 1 cup of sugar, 
1 quart of vinegar. Boil 20 minutes and put in jars. 

MRS. IRWIN ERMENTROUT. 



CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Chili Sauce — Twenty-five tomatoes chopped fine, 10 
onions, 4 green peppers chopped fine, 1 bunch of celery- 
chopped fine, add ^ gallon of vinegar, 1 cup of sugar, ^ table- 
spoon each of cloves, mace, allspice and cinnamon, 1 table- 
spoonful salt. Boil 2 hours. 

MARGARET HODGES. 

Corn Sauce (a Relish) — One small head of cabbage, 1 
dozen ears of corn, 1 tablespoon of ground mustard, 1 tea- 
spoon of tumeric, 1 teaspoon of celery seed, 1 cup of sugar, 
1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 quart of vinegar. Put corn on in cold 
water, boil 10 minutes, then grate cabbage. Mix all together, 
cook ^ hour. Put in jars while hot and seal. 

MRS. MAXWELL. 

Apple Sauce — There is no need to give directions for 
apple sauce, but may I suggest that some time you try 4 or 5 
cloves and the thinly sliced rind of ^ lemon. 

Bread Sauce — Bread sauce is served mostly with game, 
but occasionally with fowl. Two ounces of bread crumbs, 1 
slice of onion, y^ ounce of butter, 3^ pint of milk, seasoning. 
Simmer the milk, butter and onion for 15 minutes, then strain 
off the milk onto the bread crumbs which should be very 
fine. Put the milk and bread crumbs back into the saucepan, 
season with pepper and salt and allow to just come to a 
boil. Serve very hot. A blade of mace added to the onion in 
the first simmering is sometimes used and all the older recipes 
call for a teaspoonful of black peppercorns. 

India Relish — One-half peck green tomatoes, 2 Bermuda 
onions, 1 dozen sweet peppers, red and yellow, 4 sharp red 
peppers. Take through meat grinder, boil until tender, drain 
through a colander. Put in pan with mustard seed and salt 
to taste. Take 1 quart of vinegar, 1^ pounds of sugar, 1 
tablespoon celery seed, 1 of whole cloves, 1 bay leaf, 1 all- 
spice, 1 cinnamon stick. Put all the spices in a bag and boil 
with the vinegar and sugar, add tomatoes and ingredients. 
Let it all boil up well, and then put in jars. 

NELLIE GERY. 



SAUCES 69 

French Pickle — One colander of cucumbers peeled and 
cut in slices, 1 quart onions, sliced, and drained over night, 1 
quart of vinegar, 1 pound of sugar, 1 tablespoon tumeric, 1 
tablespoon allspice, 1 tablespoon celery seed, 1 tablespoon 
whole black pepper. Put into bag and boil with it ; when 
finished, take out bag. Add ^ cup ground mustard, mixed 
with 1/2 cup of flour and let come to a boil. Put all together 
and boil five minutes. Pack in jars and seal. 

MRS. MAURER. 



-70 



ADVERTISEMENT 



GROWTH AND SUCCESS 



The growth and successful career of this insti- 
tution prove beyond question the fact that the 
people of Reading and vicinity appreciate the un- 
questioned safety, liberal interest rates and helpful 
progressive service which we afford. 



2% paid on Checking Accounts. 
3% paid on Savings Accounts. 
4% paid on Mortgage Certificates. 




Ihi 



Berks County Trust Co. 

35, 37 N. 6th Street, READING, PA. 



Authorized to act as Executor, 
Administrator, Trustee, Guardian 
and in all Trust capacities. 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 71 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 73 



74 RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 75 



76 RECTPEvS FROM MY FRIENDS 



POULTRY AND GAME 77 



POULTRY and GAME 

Baked Squab — Draw, singe and truss, place in body 1 
sprig of celery, 1 bay leaf, one small sprig of parsley, one 
small slice of onion and dust w^ell, inside and out, with salt 
and pepper; pour over one tablespoon full of olive oil; place 
in pan %. cup of boiling water, put in quick oven and cook 
from yi to one hour, basting every 10 minutes. 

Roast Turkey — Wash, singe and draw a young, plump 
turkey, rub it with salt and pepper inside and out, and stuff it 
with tender bread crumbs moistened only with melted butter 
or fat drawn from the fowl. The fat gives a better flavor and 
may be quickly melted. To a bowlful of crumbs add a tea- 
spoonful of thyme, or sweet marjoram, or both, a saltspoon of 
pepper, a teaspoonful salt, and a little onion juice. Mix the 
filling well and after it has been pressed under the loose 
skin and into the body, skewer the fowl. Draw the legs 
firmly against the body, fold the wings under the back and 
tie all firmly together with plenty of clean cotton cord. Now 
grease the turkey well with butter, olive oil, or the like, 
dredge with flour and place it on a trivet in a hot oven to 
sear quickly that the juices will not escape during the roast- 
ing proper. When the skin is well seared, lessen the heat 
and baste the turkey frequently from a pint of hot water 
turned into the pan as soon as the flour on the turkey has 
been nicely browned. An 8 pound turkey should be allowed 
three hours in a moderate oven, and it may be dredged with 
flour a second time, about an hour before it is to be served. 
In the meantime boil the gibblets in a little salted water, and 
when done, chop fine and return to the water in which they 
were boiled. After the turkey has been lifted to the platter, 
turn the giblets and water into the roasting pan and let the 
gravy boil. The flour that has been basted from the turkey 
will usually make the gravy thick enough, but if this is insuffi- 
cient, dredge browned flour into the pan until the gravy is 
creamy as it boils up. It will then be ready to serve. The 
roasting turkey will as a rule impart sufficient seasoning to 
the gravy, but more may be added, if necessary. 



78 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Roast Turkey with Celery Stuffing — Make the usual 
stuffing- of bread crumbs and seasoning and add to it 1 cup of 
finely minced celery and 1 pint of raw oysters. Add ^ cupful 
soft butter and enough of the oyster liquor to moisten. Baste 
the turkey every 10 minutes with melted butter and oyster 
liquor. 



Roast Turkey with Chestnut Filling — Use the large 
chestnuts which are called French chestnuts, because the 
French cooks first used them in cooking. They cost about 
25 cents a quart. Put a pint and a half of the chestnuts into 
boiling water and cook until tender, then remove the shells 
and outer skin and press through a sieve or mash fine. Add 
^ cup of butter, a teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, and 
yi cup of cream. Add 1 cup of cracker crumbs with the %. 
cup of butter. Do not add any other seasoning to destroy 
the flavor of the chestnuts. This authority says, rub the tur- 
key with salt and spread with 1-3 cup of butter and 34 cup of 
flour, which have been creamed together. This paste may be 
put on easily with a knife and is a great improvement over 
trying to make flour and butter stick on when applied sepa- 
rately. Baste the turkey once in 10 or 15 minutes, using first 
1-3 cup of butter melted in ^ cup of water. Afterwards use 
the gravy of the pan. This careful dredging and basting will 
give a frothy crust. 



Cracker Stuffing — The old-fashioned cook will make a 
cracker stuffing, and for an 8 pound turkey will allow two 
cups of rolled crackers to which ^ cup of melted butter is 
added. Moisten the cracker with not quite two cups of hot 
milk and season with one level teaspoonful of salt, a scant 
quarter of teaspoonful pepper, and 2 level teaspoonfuls of 
sage. Add a well beaten Q.gg. 



Those who are particular to ask for some of the turkey 
" dressing " should remember that a dressing is something 
poured over an article of food, while a stuffing is encased in it. 
Hence it is correct to speak of the stuffing. 



POULTRY AND GAME 



Old-Time Chicken Pie — Take a good plump fowl, 4 or 5 
pounds ; clean carefully, cut in pieces as for fricassee. Stew 
gently until tender. Lift out the pieces of chicken. Remove 
all the skin which you put in a chopping bowl and chop very 
fine until nearly a paste. Cut and arrange the chicken in 
small pieces suitable for serving, removing the large bones. 
Add the chopped skin to the liquor in which the chicken was 
cooked. Add 1 cup, half cream and milk. Season with salt, 
paprika and celery salt. Thicken with flour until a rich, 
creamy gravy is obtained. Line the sides of a pudding dish 
with a good baking powder biscuit dough. Lay the pieces of 
chicken in the dish ; lay a round of biscuit dough on the top 
with a hole in the centre. Pinch the edge and a little strip 
of the dough may be laid around the edge. Bake until a 
golden brown. Serve with the gravy left. Small pieces of 
salt pork may be boiled with the chickens, as well as an 
onion, which you remove. This is a delicious recipe in use 
in our family nearly a century. MRS. M. PRICE. 

Deviled Chicken — One pint of cold chicken, 1^ pints of 
cream, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1 tablespoonful chopped par- 
sley, 3 hard boiled eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs, salt 
and pepper. Sprinkle lightly with bread crumbs, and brown 
in a quick oven. DAISY BENNER. 

Chicken Terrapin — Two eggs, 2 cups of cold chicken, 1 
chicken liver, 1^ tablespoonfuls of butter, 1 tablespoonful of 
flour, y-2. cup of chicken stock, Yz cup of cream, Yz teaspoon of 
salt, one or two gratings of nutmeg, 2 tablespoonfuls of good 
sherry. Cook eggs hard, chop fine, dice chicken, mash liver. 
Make sauce of butter, flour, stock and cream. Blend all to- 
gether. Heat well and serve on toast. Good on chafing 
dish. N. H. G. 

To Cook a Fowl (English Fashion) — Truss as for roast- 
ing and place in a large pan with some drippings or fat from 
the bird and 2 tablespoonfuls of water, put lid on and place 
in hot oven for 3 hours (no basting required). It will be 
nicely browned and ready to serve and tender and well flavored 
as chicken. Birds of 2 or 3 years are good cooked this way. 
CHORLEY WOOD, ENGLAND. 



CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Chicken a la King — Five pounds of chicken, boil until 
tender; 2 cans of mushrooms (buttons), 1 10-cent can of 
pimentos, 1 cup of stuffed olives, ^ pound of butter, 1 pint 
of cream, 1 quart of milk, % cup of flour, 1 cup of sherry wine. 
Melt butter and cream with flour, gradually add milk, boil 
until it thickens, add chicken cut in pieces as large as water 
crackers, then cream. Add sherry just before serving. Use 
double boiler. This will serve 20 people. 

MRS. A. GERY. 



ADVERTISEMENT 



81 






G 
O 
O 
D 

BUSINESS AND 



IN THE 




CENTRE 



SHOPPING DISTRICT 



H 
O 

T 
E 
L 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 83-- 



:84 RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 



RECirES FROM MY FRIENDS 85 



«6 RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 



VEGETABLES 87 



VEGETABLES 

" The onion strong, the parsnip sweet, 
The trailing bean, the ruddy beet. 
Yea, all the garden brings to light 
Speak it a landscape of delight." 

Vegetables are baked, roasted, fried or boiled, are used 
for making a great variety of dishes, and are prepared for the 
table in other ways, but the most common method of cooking 
them is in boiling water. The simpler the method of cooking 
and serving vegetables the better. A properly grown and 
well cooked vegetable is always palatable and readily digested. 

All green vegetables, roots and tubers should be crisp 
and firm when put on to cook. If not crisp and firm, they 
should be soaked in very cold water until they regain their 
crispness and plumpness. To secure the best results, all 
vegetables, except dried legumes, must be put in boiling water 
and kept on boiling until the cooking is finished. Herbaceous 
vegetables should boil rapidly all the time. With tuber 
roots, cauliflower, the boiling should not be violent enough 
as to break the vegetable. Green beans and peas, when re- 
moved from the pod, must also be cooked gently, i. e. just sim- 
mer. When the pods and all are used, they should cook as 
rapidly as the others. 

During the cooking of all vegetables the cover must be 
drawn to one side of the stew pan to allow the volatile bodies 
liberated by the heat to pass off in the steam. All vegetables 
should be thoroughly cooked, but the cooking should stop 
while the vegetable still is firm. The best seasoning for most 
vegetables is salt and good butter. 

Vegetables that are blanched and then cooked with but- 
ter and other seasonings, and very little moisture, are more 
savory and nutritious than when all the cooking is done in a 



CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



good deal of clear water. Blanching, which in cooking is 
entirely different from the bleaching or blanching of green 
vegetables in the garden, is a cooking process often used 
with vegetables, since it removes the strong or acid taste and 
improves the quality. It is also convenient, since blanching 
may be done at any time and the cooking completed in a 
very short time, when the dish is to be served. 

Have a large stew pan half full of rapidly boiling water. 
Add a tablespoonful of salt for every two quarts of water. 
Have the vegetables cleaned and well drained. Drop them 
into the boiling water and bring back the water to the 
boiling point as soon as possible. Boil rapidly with the cover 
entirely or nearly off the stew pan from 5 to 20 minutes, then 
drain off all the water. If the cooking of the vegetable is not 
to be finished at once, pour cold water over the vegetable to 
cool it quickly, then drain and set aside until needed. If the 
cooking is to be continued at once, do not pour on the cold 
water. To complete the cooking the vegetable should be put 
in a small stew pan with butter and other seasonings, and 
cooked gently until done. A few spoonfuls of liquid will be 
required for every quart of very juicy vegetables, and a half 
pint of liquid for drier vegetables. The stew pan is to be 
covered except a small opening being left for ventilation. 

Seasonings and Sauces for Vegetables — Much of the ex- 
cellence of well cooked vegetables depends upon the proper 
use of seasonings and sauces. The seasoning selected should 
undoubtedly be suitable for the dish, but so much depends 
upon custom that only general suggestions can be made. 
The Italians, and some other races, are much fonder of garlic 
than Americans ; the Germans, of summer savory or bohnen- 
kraut, in string beans, and who, but the English, of mint with 
green peas? As commonly understood, three herbs enter into 
the seasoning known to cooks as " fine herbs." They are 
parsley, chevril, and chives. These three herbs combine well 
with almost any vegetable, fish or meat. They are minced 
fine and added to the sauce, soup, etc. When added to sauces 
the herbs must be added just before serving. — U. S. Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin No. 256. 



VEGETABLES 89 

The general rules for time for cooking vegetables are as 
follows, when they are not blanched : 

15 to 20 minutes for Brussels sprouts, green corn, asparagus, 
spinach and young peas. 

20 to 30 minutes for young cabbage, peas, cauliflower, rice, 
potatoes, summer squash, macaroni and celery. 

30 to 45 minutes for sweet potatoes, baked potatoes, onions, 
young parsnips, turnips, beets and young carrots. 

45 to 60 minutes shell beans, string beans, oyster plant and 
winter squash. 

1 to 2 hours for winter vegetables. 

There is always a plea for some new vegetable. Rather 
should there be a plea for more ways of cooking the old vege- 
tables. The desire of most housewives for a new vegetable 
is much like the desire to learn a new language, when one 
does not know half the words in one's own language. You 
would probably be surprised if you counted up the methods 
in which vegetables are served in your own home. You 
probably could not count more than thirty or forty, while in 
reality the different ways run into the hundreds. So here 
fellows a list to help you out, which was taken long ago from 
a newspaper. Green salads, that are served as a separate 
course, are not given. Neither are white potatoes, as they 
are always used with the other vegetables. And neither are 
macaroni, vermicelli, spaghetti and rice which are often sub- 
stituted for vegetables. Here is the list which is long enough 
that you need not duplicate the ways of serving each vegetable 
at your table for several months : 

Turnips 

1. Boiled and mashed. 

2. Boiled, diced and creamed. 

3. Boiled, diced or sliced and warmed in meat stock. 



90 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Carrots 

1. Boiled, sliced with butter, 

2. Boiled, warmed in stock. 

3. Boiled, served with cream sauce. 

4. Boiled and mashed. 

5. Boiled, diced and served with green peas. 

Parsnips 

1. Boiled and fried in slices or halves. 

2. Boiled and creamed. 

3. Boiled, sliced and served with butter. 

4. Boiled and mashed. 

5. Boiled, sliced and dipped in fritter batter and fried. 

6. Scalloped ; boil, dice and put in dish with white meat 
drippings and brown. 

7. Baked ; quarter, steam an hour, put in dish with meat 
drippings and brown. 

Salsify or Oyster Plant 

1. Boiled and creamed. 

2. Boiled, sliced, served with butter, parsley and lemon 
juice. 

3. Croquettes. 

Jerusalem Artichokes 
1. Boiled and creamed. 

Kohl Rabbi 

1. Boiled, sliced, served with butter. 

2. Boiled, diced and creamed. 

Lentils 

1. Boiled, ser^-ed with butter. 

2. Ser^-ed with cream sauce. 

3. Baked, like dried white beans. 

Shell Beans 
]. Boiled, ser^-ed with butter, salt and pepper. 



VEGETABLE: 



Beets 

1. Boiled, sliced or chopped and ser\-ed with melted 
butter. 

2. Boiled, pickled. 

4. Diced, mixed with horse-radish. 

5. Sugared ; boil, slice, mix 1^^ cupfuls sugar, Yi tea- 
spoon salt, 3 tablespoonfuls butter, heat and ser^-e. 

6. Boil, ser^-e with sour sauce. Mix 2 tablespoonfuls 
each, butter and flour, add ^4 cupful of hot water, J4 cupful 
vinegar, same of cream, teaspoonful sugar and salt and pepper. 
Cook until smooth. 

Radishes 

1. Raw. 

2. Boiled, skimmed and served with butter. 

3. Boiled, ser\-ed with cream sauce. 

Onions 

1. Spring onions, rav.-. 

2. Sliced Bermuda onions. 

3. Sliced Spanish onions. 

4. Fried with beefsteak. 

5. Boiled, ser\-ed wi-th butter. 

6. Boiled, served with cream sauce. 

7. Boiled, covered with cream sauce and baked. 

8. Au gratin ; boil, sprinkle with cheese and brown. 

9. Stuffed ; parboil large ones, remove centers, stuff with 
forcemeat, then bake. 

10. Scalloped ; parboil Spanish onions, chop, put in alter- 
nate layers with bread crumbs and white sauce in dish and 
bake. 

String Beans 

1. Boiled, served with butter. 

2. Simmered tender in stock after being parboiled. 

3. Served v.ith cream sauce in milk. 

Dried White Beans 

1. Baked. 

2. Boiled. 



CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 





Sweet Potatoes 


1. 


Boiled. 


2. 


Baked. 


3. 


Baked and stuffed. 


4. 


Boiled, sliced and fried in deep fat. 


5. 


Parboil, French fried in deep fat. 


6. 


Boiled, sliced, browned in baking dish with butter. 


7. 


Candied. 


8. 


Croquettes. 


9. 


Browned with roast of meat. 


10. 


Creamed; boil, dice, serve in cream sauce. 



Peas 

1. Boiled, served with butter. 

2. Served in cream sauce. 

3. Served in milk. 

Lima Beans, Fresh or Dried 

1. Boiled in hot milk. 

2. Boiled, served with butter. 

3. Boiled, served with cream sauce. 

Cabbage 

1. Boiled. 

2. Boiled and minced with garnish of sausage or other 
force meat. 

3. Boiled and creamed. 

4. Coldslaw. 

5. Hotslaw. 

6. Parboiled, stuffed with bread crumbs and baked. 

7. Leaves stuffed with forcemeat and boiled in stock. 

8. Scalloped ; boil, chop, mix with crumbs and white 
sauce and brown. 

9. Chopped raw and served with boiled dressing. 

Lettuce 

1. Leaves boiled, chopped and served with butter. 

2. Leaves boiled, chopped and served with cream sauce. 

3. Stalks, creamed. 



VEGETABLES 9S 

Tomatoes 

1. Raw, sliced. 

2. Scalloped. 

3. Stewed. 

4. Stuffed with crumbs, force meat or corn, and baked. 

5. Stewed with rice. 

6. Sliced and fried. 

7. Sliced, dipped in batter and fried. 

8. Au gratin; scalloped or baked with cheese on top. 

9. Stewed with corn cut from cob. 

10. Tomato toast ; diced, fried and served on toast. 

11. Steamed ; put whole with butter in steamer. 

12. Deviled ; mix two crumbed egg yolks, pepper, salt 
and vinegar. Dip thick slices of tomato in this and broil. 

Cauliflower 

1. Boiled, served with butter. 

2. Boiled, served with cream sauce. 

3. Au gratin; boiled and baked with cheese sprinkled 
over. 

4. Scalloped ; boiled, cream sauce and crumbs, and brown 
in oven. 

Brussels Sprouts 

1. Boiled. 

2. Boiled with cream dressing. 

3. Boiled, fried brown in hot oil or butter. 

4. Boiled, then dipped in egg and crumbs, and fried in 
deep fat. 

5. Scalloped ; boil and mix with cream sauce and crumbs, 
and brown in oven. 

Cucumbers 

1. Sliced, raw. 

2. Parboiled, stuffed and baked. 

3. Scalloped; parboiled, dice, mix with crumbs and 
white sauce, bake. 

4. Fritters ; cut in inch thick slices, dip in batter and fry. 

5. Creamed; soak an hour in salt water, cook until 
transparent in drawn butter, in upper part of double boiler. 

6. Sauted; pare, boil 3 minutes, quarter, roll in flour, 
brown 20 minutes in butter. 



94 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Green Cora 

1. On the cob. 

2. Cut off, with butter, pepper and salt. 

3. Cut off, with milk. 

4. Fritters. 

5. Pudding. 

6. Souffle. 

7. Succotash. 

Okra 

• 1. Baked in alternate layers with rice and tomatoes, 
baked, covered, until okra is tender. 

2. Stewed alone or with meat in a stew. 

3. With vinegar; boil ^ hour, season with salt, vinegar 
and pepper. 

Eggplant 

1. Fried. 

2. Scalloped; boil, dice, mix with white sauce and 
crumbs and bake. 

3. Stuffed with forcemeat, after parboiling, and browned. 

4. Broiled ; slice, dip in oil and bread crumbs and boil. 

Celery 

1. Raw. 

2. Raw, crevices stuffed with cream cheese. 

3. Boiled, with cream sauce. 

4. Fritters; dip 3 inch pieces in fritter batter and fry. 

Asparagus 

1. Boiled, served with butter, pepper and salt. 

2. Served whole with cream sauce. 

3. Cut in pieces, and serve in cream sauce on toast. 

4. Served with Hollandaise sauce. 

Swiss Chard 

1. Boiled, chopped in butter. 

2. Boiled and creamed. 

3. Stalks boiled and creamed. 



VEGETABLES "« 

Beet Greens 

1. Boiled, chopped, with butter and vinegai- if desired. 

2. Boiled, mixed with cream sauce. 

Squash (Winter Variety) 

1. Boiled, mashed and seasoned. 

2. Baked, mashed and seasoned. 

Squash (Summer Variety) 

1. Boil and mash. 

2. Fried; slice, dip in egg and crumbs and fry btown. 

Kidney Beans 
1. Boiled, served with butter, pepper and salt. 

Vegetable Marrow 

1. Stewed in stock. 

2. Mashed. 

3. Creamed. 

4. Diced and buttered on toast. 

5. Fried ; parboil, quarter, dip in egg and crumbs and fry. 

Kale 

1. Boiled, minced, mixed with butter and served with 
or without vinegar. 

2. Boiled with bacon and minced. 

3. Boiled, minced and heated with stock. 

1. Boiled, chopped, served with egg garnish. 

2. Boiled, minced, mixed with white sauce. 

3. Boiled and made into a souffle. 

4. Boiled and made into croquettes. 

Cranberries 
1. Stewed. 2. Jelly. 3. Frozen. 



CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Sweet Green Peppers 

1. Stuffed with chopped meat, crumbs, rice, corn and 
baked. 

2. Cut in rings and fried. 

3. Cut in two, dipped in oil and crumbs, and broiled. 

4. Boiled, chopped and mixed with cream sauce. 

French Artichokes 

1. Boiled, with Hollandaise sauce. 

2. Fritters; boil, quarter, dip in fritter batter and fry. 

3. Stuffed; parboil, stuff chicken forcemeat and white 
sauce mixed between leaves and bake. 



VEGETABLES 



"What's there? 
Things for the cook, sir; but I know not what." 

— Romeo and Juliet. 

Carrots — Scrape the carrots, cut in dice, boil until soft, 
drain and season with salt, pepper and sugar to taste, sprinkle 
flour over the top, add cream and let simmer. Before serving 
pour drawn butter over. MRS. GEORGE D. HORST. 

Green Peas Boiled (French) — Shell the peas, put in boil- 
ing water, add a little salt, a sprig of green mint, and boil 
with saucepan uncovered from 10 to 25 minutes. Drain well, 
and put in a hot dish, season with pepper and a small piece 
of butter. 

Peas Creamed No. 2 — One pint of cooked green peas, 
salt, green mint, 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of cream, pepper, sugar, 
finely chopped parsley and butter. Take the green peas, heat 
them in boiling water containing salt, and a sprig of green 
mint. Drain carefully, put the peas in a saucepan with cream, 
season with salt and pepper and a good pinch of sugar, add a 
dessertspoonful of chopped parsley and stir carefully until 
peas and cream are mixed ; add a little butter. Do not allow 
cream to boil. 



VEGETABLES 97 

Corn Pudding No. 1 — Scrape the substance out of fresh 
uncooked corn, add melted butter, pepper, salt and sugar to 
taste, add yolks and whites of 3 eggs beaten separately, 1 cup 
of milk mixed with the yolks. Put into a baking dish and 
bake >^ or ^ of an hour. MRS. GEORGE D. HORST. 

Corn Pudding No. 2 — Twelve ears corn grated, 3 eggs 
beaten separately, 1 cup milk, 1 tablespoonful melted butter, 
1 tablespoonful flour, pepper and salt. Bake in the oven Yz 
hour. " NORRISTOWN." 

Corn Pudding No. 3 — One dozen large ears of corn, 1 pint 
of milk, 4 eggs, 1 teaspoonful salt, J4 teaspoonfuls black pep- 
per. Score the corn down the centre of each row of grains, 
then with the back of the knife, press out all the pulp, leaving 
the hull on the cob ; beat the whites and yolks separately, add 
yolks to the corn, mix thoroughly, add salt, pepper and milk, 
and stir in the whites carefully. Put in a pudding dish. 
Bake slowly one hour. A tablespoonful of sugar is nice in 
corn pudding. " NORRISTOWN." 

Canned Corn Pudding — Mince corn, beat 3 eggs sepa- 
rately, add 1 tablespoonful of sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls melted 
butter, even teaspoonful salt, a cup of milk. Fold in whites 
of eggs. Bake in a greased pudding dish half hour, then un- 
cover to brown slightly. 

MRS. McCOY, York. 

Creamed Cucumbers — Cut cucumbers lengthwise into 
several parts, boil 20 minutes or until tender. Serve like 
asparagus on buttered toast with cream dressing. Tender 
spring onions may be served the same way when boiled. 

MRS. HARRY MAURER. 

Sweet Potato and Marshmallow — Sweet potatoes, sugar, 
butter, salt and marshmallows. Boil potatoes in unsalted 
water, until tender; remove the skins and mash as Irish pota- 
toes, stir into them sugar, butter and salt to taste. Place in a 
buttered baking dish, cover the top with marshmallows. Put 
in the oven until the mashmallows brown and swell. 

NELLIE GERY. 



CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Cape Cod Cranberry Sauce — Wash 1 quart of selected 
cranberries, and put them into a large pot; preferably one 
with a long handle; thoroughly mix with the berries 1 quart 
of granulated sugar, and then pour over them 1^^ pints of 
cold water. Put the pot without cover over a hot fire, and 
as soon as it comes to the boiling point move the pot con- 
stantly to keep the berries from burning, but do not touch 
them with a spoon or any kind of a stirrer. Let them boil for 
8 or 10 minutes, then turn them into a bowl or glass jars. 

ROSE NEAD. 

Stewed Celery — Cut into inch pieces, outside celery stems 
and stew until tender in slightly salted water. Drain and 
pour over a sauce made as follows : 

Sauce — Yolks of 2 eggs well beaten, pinch of salt and 
dry mustard, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 table- 
spoonfuls vinegar and ^ cup of milk. Boil in double boiler 
until creamy. Pour hot over hot celery. 

MRS. N. M. WANNER, York. 

Stuffed Green Peppers— A tasty, green entree. Allow 1 
large, firm, green pepper for each guest. Cut a slice from the 
stem end, remove seeds carefully, parboil 15 minutes and 
drain. While these cook, prepare the following mixture : 
To every six peppers allow one sweetbread. Parboil and 
chill the sweet bread and cut up with a silver knife. Melt 3 
tablespoonfuls of butter and rub it smoothly with 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour. Add gradually >4 cup of white stock 
(chicken preferred) and when creamy, add 1-3 of a cup of 
minced mushroom (canned will do) and 2 tablespoonfuls of 
sweet cream. Season with pepper and salt and Worcester 
sauce. Fill the pepper shells with this mixture, cover with 
buttered bread crumbs, and bake until the crumbs are brown. 
While they are baking prepare the following sauce : Break 
the stems of the mushrooms, cover \A'ith cold water and cook 
for 20 minutes. In another saucepan melt 2 tablespoons of 
butter, rub in 2 tablespoons of flour and add a few drops of 
onion juice. Stir this mixture and pour over gradually the 
water from the mushroom stems with enough stock to make 1 
cupful. Add 2 tablespoons of cream, and season with salt and 
papricka. Arrange the peppers on a platter, pour the sauce 
around them. 



VEGETABLES 99- 

Green Peppers Stuffed With Cauliflower — Cut a thin slice 
from the stem end of large peppers and remove seeds. Parboil 
10 minutes and fill with creamed cauliflower. Sprinkle tops 
with buttered crumbs and bake until skins are tender, basting 
occasionally with butter and water. 

MRS. A. E. COLEMAN. 

POTATOES 

Left-Over Potatoes — Cut in blocks. Take milk and 
thicken with flour in double boiler, grate a little cheese in it. 
Pour over the potatoes. Cover with bread crumbs and grated 
cheese. Brown in oven. MARY BRISTER. 

Potato Dressing for Chicken or Turkey— One-half gallon 
potatoes mashed very smooth, butter size of walnut, salt and 
pepper to taste, and milk to smooth. Stir in a tablespoon of 
flour, 3 eggs, parsley chopped fine, onions and bread cut in 
small squares and browned in butter. Put in a buttered pan 
and brown. Serve hot. MRS. J. F. ANCONA. 

Hashed Brown Potatoes — Cut 4 large cold boiled potatoes 
into small dice : Put 2 tablespoonfuls of butter in a frying 
pan, v/hen hot add 1 small tablespoon of chopped onion and 
cook until brown ; add the potatoes and stir until they are 
well heated through, and commence to brown. Nov/ add 1 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley ; spread your potatoes evenly 
over the bottom of the pan. Put over a moderate fire for 
10 or 15 minutes, shaking the pan at intervals to keep potatoes 
from adhering to the bottom. They should brown in the 
shape of an omelette. Put a platter over the pan, turn upside 
down so that the browned side Vvall be uppermost. 

MRS. AARON SWARTZ. 



Hashed Brown Potatoes— Six potatoes, 2 tablespoonfuls 
flour, 2 tablespoonfuls butter creamed, 1 pint of milk, cooked 
and poured over potatoes. Salt, pepper, bits of butter, par- 
sley, and bread crumbs on top. Bake in oven. 

MRS. IRVIN ERMENTROUT. 



CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Potato Puffs — Six tablespoonfuls cold, mashed potatoes 
with a little salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 2 eggs, 2 table- 
spoonfuls baking powder. Drop by spoonfuls in boiling lard. 

MRS. RALPH McCALL. 

Potato Puff No. 2 — Two cupfuls cold mashed potato, add 
six tablespoonfuls melted butter, beating to a white cream. 
Whip two eggs very light with a teaspoonful of cream or 
milk ; salt to taste. Beat all well. Pour in a deep dish ; bake 
in quick oven until browned. 

Scalloped Potatoes — Pare three or 4 large potatoes and 
•cut into dice. Put a tablespoonful of butter in a frying pan, 
and when melted, add a tablespoonful of flour; mix until 
smooth. Add ^ pint of new milk; stir until it boils. Season 
with salt and pepper. Put a layer of this sauce in the bottom 
of a baking dish, then a layer of raw potatoes, with salt, 
pepper, minced parsley and a few drops of onion juice. Repeat 
until the dish is filled, put the sauce on top. Sprinkle with 
bread crumbs and bits of butter. Set in a moderate oven to 
bake ^ hour. Serve in dish it was baked in. 

Candied Sweet Potatoes — Pare raw sweet potatoes, slice 
across the potato in not too thin slices, put in a pan with a 
little water and boil until nearly soft. Take out and put in 
layers in a pudding dish, with lots of butter and sugar on 
€ach layer. Take a little of the water in which the potatoes 
were cooked and put in bottom of dish. Bake about one hour. 

Sweet Potatoes With Sherry Wine — Season mashed, 
boiled sweet potatoes with butter, salt, pepper and sherry 
wine, add some cream or rich milk and beat until light and 
fluffy. Serve. MRS. A. SWARTZ. 

Candied Sweet Potatoes — Candied sweet potatoes are 
very popular on Southern tables and are extremely palatable 
when well prepared. Cut boiled sweet potatoes into long 
slices, place in an earthen dish. Put lumps of butter on each 
slice and sprinkle with sugar. Some cooks add a little water 
also. Bake until the sugar and butter have candied, and the 
potatoes are brown. U. S. D. A. 



VEGETABLES 101 

Candied Sweet Potatoes — Take 6 or 7 medium-sized 
sweet potatoes, pare and halve lengthwise, and put in a large 
frying-pan. Over them put 2 cups of cold water, 1 cup of 
granulated sugar, and Yz cup of butter. Let them cook nearly 
an hour, adding just a very little bit of water at a time, if they 
show signs of candying before the potatoes are thoroughly 
done. MARGARET C. KLINE. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes — Two cupfuls of cooked chopped 
potatoes, 1 even tablespoonful of finely chopped onion, 1 even 
tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
butter, salt and pepper to taste. Melt the butter, add onion 
and fry until a nice brown; add the seasoned potatoes and 
stir until they have absorbed all the butter. Add parsley and 
serve at once. ACEOLA COOK BOOK. 

Hashed Potatoes — Pare three or four large potatoes and 
cut into dice. Put a large tablespoon of butter into a frying- 
pan and when melted, add 1 tablespoonful of flour ; mix until 
smooth. Add ^ pint new milk; stir until it boils. Season 
with pepper and salt. Put a layer of this sauce in the bottom 
of a baking dish, then a layer of raw potatoes with salt, pepper, 
minced parsley and a few drops of onion juice. Put the sauce 
on top. Sprinkle with bread crumbs and dabs of butter. 
Bake Yz hour in a moderate oven. 

Philadelphia Potatoes — Dice 1 pint of cold boiled pota- 
toes. Make a white sauce by putting in a sauce pan 1 table- 
spoonful of butter, 1 tablespoon flour, Yz teaspoon pepper and 
salt. Stir until mixed then gradually add ^ pint of hot milk 
and continue stirring until thick and smooth. Put potatoes, 
and sauce in alternate layers in baking dish, pour over top 1 
beaten ^%^. Brown in hot oven. M. L. S. 



ADVERTISEMENT 



GALEN HALL 

J ^ f%^ IN THE 

li>f ■■^■'S^ MOUNTAINS 

, '^ii^'jvf.L WERNERSVILLE,PA. 
re™^ ALWAYS OPEN 



A high class hotel home with every physical comfort 

Dry air. Beautiful scenery. Good roads. 
Modern Garage. Golf. Tennis. Pool, 
Billiards. Beautiful Walks. Saddle Horses. 
Long Distance Telephones in Rooms. Good 
Music. Resident Physician and Staff. 
Therapeutic Baths and Massage. Trained 
Operators. Diet Kitchen. 

Through Pullmans from N. Y. (C. R. R. of N. J.) 
and Philadelphia (Reading R. R.) 
NEW YORK OPFICE, 243 flfTH AVENUE 

Howard M. Wing, Manager 



T<T{CIPEvS FROM MY FRIENDS 103 



104 l^KCTPEvS FROM MY FRIENDS 



RECIPKS FROM MY FRIENDS 105 



106 RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 



SALADvS 107 



SALADS 

'It's in the spring man's appetite fondly turns to salad greens. 



The word salad signified originally something eaten with 
salt. We cannot eat our salad nowadays simply with salt, and 
we do not agree with the salad connoisseur who says " The 
simpler we eat it, the better; a salad of crisp, fresh greens 
dressed with French dressing is far better than the more com- 
plicated and elaborate ones." Lettuce has the approval of cen- 
turies behind its use, for it was known on the royal table of 
Persians some four centuries B. C. The Greeks used lettuce, 
too, and it has been used in all lands and ages since then. It 
has been said, also, that our earlier ancestors knew nothing of 
the cool, wholesome salad. We are indebted to an English 
queen, one of the numerous spouses of Henry VIII for its 
introduction to England. The historian Hume states that it 
was not until the end of the reign of this monarch that " Any 
salads, carrots, turnips or other edible roots were produced 
in England." Queen Catherine, when she required a salad, was 
obliged to send a messenger over the sea to get it, so to avoid 
the inconvenience, her Majesty ordered her gardeners to pro- 
duce the required vegetables at home in her gardens." 

The best salad makers in the world are the French and 
the Italian. The French salads are conceded to be the best 
in the world, but without their fragrant herbs (and these 
little salad herbs are of great importance to their salad mak- 
ing), they would be quite like the English ones. 

The English are not good salad makers and that is why 
the native New Englander, descended from good old English 
stock, even today eats milk on lettuce or thinks it fine with 
vinegar and sugar. Milk, or sugar and vinegar, of course, are 
all right, but they would not be chosen in this day by the chef 
who makes an art of salads. 



CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Salads that contain various mixed vegetables may truly 
be called Italian, for all eatable odds and ends are made into 
salads by this thrifty people. 

Good materials, good methods combined with intelligence 
and attention to small details, are all that is necessary to 
make a salad which will be delicious, delicate and appetizing. 
The list of salad greens in the spring is a long one, and the 
methods by which each may be prepared are numerous, but 
here is a small list of some of them : Endive, chicory, cresses, 
water-cress, nasturtium is really one of the cresses ; in Eng- 
land it is called Indian-cress ; dandelion greens, sorrel and 
celery, all can be eaten with French or mayonnaise dressing. 
Some of the cooked greens can be included in the list. 
Spinach, kale and okra pods. 



Mayonnaise No. 1 — One teaspoonful each of mustard, salt, 
and powdered sugar, a few grains of cayenne, yolks of 2 eggs, 
juice of ^ lemon, 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar and 1^/^ cups of 
olive oil. Take yolks of eggs, stir them a little, add dry 
ingredients, then a little vinegar, a little of the olive oil, and a 
little of the lemon juice until all is used up. 

MARY BRISTER. 

Mayonnaise No. 2 — Have everything ice-cold. One-half 
teaspoonful salt, yi teaspoonful pulverized sugar, ^ teaspoon- 
ful Colman's mustard, ]/% teaspoonful cayenne pepper, 1 table- 
spoonful vinegar, 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, yolks of 1 or 2 
eggs, enough olive oil to stiffen dressing. Into a cup put salt, 
sugar, pepper, mustard, lemon juice and vinegar to dissolve. 
Into a bowl beat the yolks of the eggs with a little salt until 
stifif. Then, very slowly, drop the oil and beat. When 
enough oil has been beaten in, gradually add the vinegar, etc. 
If the dressing is too thin add more oil ; if too thick, add more 
vinegar. MRS. T. E. HESSENBRUSH. 

Spring Salad — Equal parts of celery, radishes, cold beans 
and cold peas cut quite fine; ^ onion may be added. Add 
several slices of cucumbers and tomato. Serve on lettuce 
with any preferred dressing. 



SALADS 



Salad Dressing or Mayonnaise — In a cold bowl break 1 
whole egg, juice of ^2 lemon, half a teaspoonful of salt, ^ 
teaspoonful of mustard, 2 tablespoonfuls olive oil. Use a 
Dover eggbeater for a minute or two. Add two more table- 
spoons oil, beat another minute or two, then oil can be added 
in larger quantities and be beaten until you have desired 
quantity of dressing. K. E. S. 

Boiled Salad Dressing (Excellent) — Stir together 1 tea- 
spoonful of salt, 1 tablespoonful oil or butter and 1 tablespoon 
of sugar, then a full teaspoonful of mustard, and three raw 
eggs stirred in separately. Add slowly 1 small cupful of 
vinegar and lastly 1 cup of milk and cream mixed. Put 
mixture in a double boiler and stir to the consistency of 
custard. Mix the ingredients in precisely the order given 
stirring well after each is added. The ingredients will not 
then curdle the milk. This may be used on cold vegetables. 

ANNIE DAMPMAN. 

Salad Dressing No. 2 — -One pint of sour cream, 2 eggs, 
3 tablespoonfuls granulated sugar, 1 tablespoon (scant) of 
flour, 1 heaping teaspoon mustard, 1 teaspoonful salt, 2 table- 
spoonfuls olive oil, ^ cup vinegar. Mix all dry ingredients 
together first, then stir in the eggs, one by one, then add 
olive oil, then cream and last of all the vinegar. Boil in a 
double boiler, stirring constantly until the proper consistency. 
Keeps indefinitely. FLORENCE ZIEBER PENCIL. 

Plain French Dressing — This dressing is used by the 
French on nearly all of their salads. Those who do not care 
for oil should use equal quantities of oil and vinegar or 1-3 
vinegar to two-thirds oil ; but 4 parts of oil to 1 of vinegar are 
needed to make the genuine French dressing. The dressing 
may be mixed in a bowl and the salad added ; or the salad 
may be made as follows : Place the salt and pepper and a 
tablespoonful of the oil together, mix well and add to the 
salad. Stir lightly, put in the rest of the oil, stir again for a 
few seconds and lastly add the vinegar. Toss the salad and 
serve. 



no CLUB HOUSE C OOK BOOK 

Another way to make it is to put salt and pepper in a 
jar,^ add gradually the oil and lastly the vinegar and when 
all is in the jar, shake the jar every now and then while pre- 
paring the salad and by the time the salad is prepared the 
French dressing will be ready, too. This is the correct meas 
use: One saltspoonful of salt, >^ saltspoonful of pepper, 1 
tablespoonful of vinegar and 4 tablespoonfuls of good oil. 

How green you are and fresh! 

Vegetable Salad — Cut ^ head of cabbage and several 
onions on the cabbage cutter. Cut ^ dozen tomatoes, 2 
peppers, 2 stalks of celery. Mix thoroughly and serve with 
pepper and salt, French or mayonnaise dressing. Any 
quantity may be made and the proportions varied. 

MRS. HARRY MAURER. 

Egg and Lettuce Salad — Allow 2 eggs to each person, 
boil hard, chill, quarter or slice upon a flat dish which has 
been covered with lettuce and cut in narrow strips with a 
scissors. Slice 10 or more stuffed olives, scatter over eggs 
and add mounds of cooked dressing at intervals over the 
whole. Sprinkle with paprika and serve ice cold. 

Cream Cheese and Date Salad — Mix a cream cheese with 
pepper and salt to taste and a little cream. Press into the 
cavities of dates from which the pits have been removed. 
Serve three or four dates on lettuce leaves with French 
dressing. 

Sweetbread Salad — Parboil a pair of sweetbreads 20 min- 
utes. When cold, cut in Yi inch cubes. Mix with an equal 
quantity of cucumbers cut in y^ inch pieces. Season with salt, 
pepper, and paprika, and arrange in nests of lettuce leaves. 
For the dressing, beat Yi cup of heavy sweet cream with a 
Dover ^%% beater, add 3 tablespoons vinegar very slowly, 
continuing the beating, then season highly with salt, pepper, 
and paprika. Add 1 tablespoonful of sugar. In winter I 
often substitute celery for cucumber. 

MRS. AARON SWARTZ. 



SALADS 



Tomato Salad (Fine for a Luncheon) — Pare and chill six 
medium-sized tomatoes ; when ready to serve, cut in eighths, 
y^ of the way to the bottom ; then open like the petals of a 
flower, and put on a nest of crisp lettuce leaves. Mash cream 
cheese with a little French dressing and make into balls about 
as big as a large pea, put 8 of these balls in each tomato. 

Dressing of Tomato Salad — One-half teaspoonful of salt, 
Y4 teaspoonful of pepper, ^ tablespoonful chopped parsley, 2 
tablespoonfuls vinegar, 4 tablespoonfuls of olive oil, 1 finely 
chopped, red pepper. Mix and stir well. 

MRS. AARON SWARTZ. 

Apple and Walnut Salad — Select fine, mellow, tart apples. 
Pare, core and dice sufficient to make two cupfuls, add 1 
cupful of diced celery and 2 cups of English walnut meat. 
Moisten with a cream salad dressing, serve on crisp lettuce 
and garnish with halved walnuts. Do not prepare the apples 
until just before time to serve, as they quickly discolor. 

Jellied Fruit Salad — Dissolve 1^^ teaspoonfuls of granu- 
lated gelatine and 1^ cups of granulated sugar in 2 cupfuls 
of hot water, then add the strained juice of 2 lemons. Remove 
the pulp from three oranges and 1 small grape fruit, slice 3 
bananas and mix with ^ cupful of chopped English walnuts, 
and 1 cupful of grapes that have been seeded. Pour the 
jelly over this and set away to cool. At serving time turn 
out on a nest of lettuce leaves. Garnish with mayonnaise 
and serve. 

Pineapple Salad No. 1 — On a couple of crisp, chill, white 
lettuce leaves lay a chilled slice of drained pineapple. In the 
centre place a ball of cream cheese rolled in parsley. Dress 
with French dressing. 

Pineapple Salad No. 2 — Calls for the crisp lettuce and 
pineapple slices. Then remove the pits from 3 dates for each 
person, and fill cavity with cream cheese. Place the dates 
on the pineapple and serve with French dressing. 

Pineapple Salad No. 3 — The third pineapple salad has 
seeded white grapes and chopped pecans sprinkled over the 
pineapple, with French dressing. 



CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Tomato Salad — Trim ripe tomatoes, cut the tops off and 
scoop out centres. Fill with equal parts of chicken, hard 
boiled eggs and a little sweet Spanish onion chopped to- 
gether (or chicken and celery), serve ice cold on crisp lettuce 
with stuffed olives cut in halves and arranged over the top 
and among the lettuce leaves. Serve a good cream salad 
dressing over all. 

Pilgrim Salad — Pick a head of lettuce apart, washing 
carefully, and shred very fine with a pair of sissors. Peel two 
apples, cut in quarters, remove cores and slice very thin, 
place in bowl, pour over them 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice 
to prevent the apples discoloring. Mince fine 1 green and 
1 red pepper, ^/^ cup of cooked chestnuts. Place shredded 
salad on salad plate, lay slices of apple around, forming a 
horseshoe, sprinkle with finely minced peppers and chestnuts, 
and pour over it the dressing. 

Tomato Salad — Unpeeled tomatoes are never offered in a 
salad at a well served table. The skins should be removed 
by immersing in boiling water for a minute before they are 
sliced ; a little parsley, thyme, tarragon and chives chopped 
fine and added to the French dressing make a delicious addi- 
tion to tomato salad. If mayonnaise dressing is used the 
tomato should be peeled and left whole, with a small piece 
scooped out at the top for the dressing to be put in. For 
the sliced salad with French dressing the ripest possible fruit 
should be used, but when they are served whole, good, firm 
ones should be used. 

Peanut Salad — Soak 1 cup of the nut meats in olive oil, 
drain them and mix with two cups of finely cut celery and 1 
dozen pitted olives. Mix them with a mayonnaise dressing 
and serve on lettuce leaves. This is a nice salad to serve 
with duck. 

Vegetable Salad — Take any vegetable that you have left 
over from previous meals, such as peas, carrots, beets, beans, 
etc., mix them together, dress well with a good French dress- 
ing, heap into a mound and serve on lettuce leaves. Cut the 
vegetables as near the same size as possible. 



SALADS 113 



Chicken Salad — So much has been written about this 
salad that the average housekeeper has come to consider it a 
very difficult dish to prepare, while it really is one of the 
simplest. Chicken used for salad should always be boiled. 
After being boiled the chicken should not be removed from 
the water, but the kettle should be set in a cool place and the 
fowl taken out when perfectly cold. Remove the skin, fat 
and bones, and cut the meat into small pieces. Celery is 
almost invariably preferred for chicken salad, although lettuce 
is some times used. The celery, which should be crisp and 
white, is cut into small pieces and mixed with the meat, after 
which a mayonnaise dressing is added. A little more celery 
than chicken meat is used. For large parties when the chicken 
is likely to dry from being cut before it is needed, it is best 
to keep it moist by adding a French dressing as soon as cut. 
This dressing must then be drained ofif before the mayonnaise 
is added. In making chicken salad allow 1^ cupfuls of 
mayonnaise dressing, 1^ pints of celery and 1 pint of chicken. 
If a large quantity of dressing is required a cupful of whipped 
cream may be added to every pint of mayonnaise. This 
makes the dressing lighter and the oily flavor less noticeable. 

S. I. A. 



Pretty Individual Salad — An individual salad for the 
luncheon table always looks well and is pleasing. This recipe 
for orange salad is new. Take ^ orange, divide it into its 
sections ; peel them as well as you can and spread them out 
on a dish in wheel shape. In the centre of the wheel place 
chopped dates and walnuts and a maraschmo cherry. A 
French dressing, mayonnaise, or boiled dressing may accom- 
pany the salad. Serve on crisp lettuce. 



Mixed Green Salad — Make a bed of crisp, light green, 
lettuce leaves. In a separate bowl mix onions, sliced very 
thin, cucumber, canned string beans, and peas, and some 
green asaparus tips, using a French dressing plentifully sea- 
soned with salt and pepper, as all these vegetables need high 
seasoning. When you have mixed the salad thoroughly 
arrange in a mould on lettuce leaves. 



CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Fruit Salad — One large grape fruit, 2 oranges, 1 pound 
of white grapes, cut in half and seeds taken out, ^ pound 
English walnut meats, a little pineapple if you like. Prepare 
fruit and let drain in colander for four hours. 

Dressing for Fruit Salad — Yolks of 4 eggs, 4 tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar, 2 tabkspoonfuls of 
water. Put this in double boiler ; when thick, add large lump 
of butter. When entirely cold stir into it 1 pint of whipped 
cream. Just before serving mix with fruit. Serve on lettuce 
leaves. N. G. 

Salad — Sardines and tomatoes served on crisp lettuce 
leaves make a good salad. MRS. MAUGER. 



Bean Salad — One can red kidney beans, 1 stalk celery, 
1 pepper, 1 onion, 1 tomato, 8 sweet pickles. Cover with 
vinegar sweetened and salted to taste. 

MRS. JOHN BAIR. 



ADVERTISEMENT 



•STRENGTH AND SERVICE' 



— Reading company 

Fifth & Court Sts., Reading, Pa. 



Capital, Surplus, Profits $1,127,294.13 

Deposits 1,595,493.12 

Trust Funds 6,725,117.00 



Reading's Oldest 
Trust Company 

This institution with its large capital, resources 
and modern facilities, invites the business of your- 
self and friends in its Banking, Trust, Real Estate or 
Safe Deposit Departments, with every assurance of 
service of the highest order. 

WE PAY 



/^ CHECKING 
ACCOUNTS 



I ^^ SAVINGS 
ACCOUNTS 



May We Serve You? 



116 RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 117 



118 RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 



PIES 



PIES 

" No soil upon earth is so dear to our eyes 
As the soil we first stirred in terrestrial pies." 

— O. W. Holmes. 

Sunshine Pie 

A pound of patience you must find; 
Mix well with loving words and kind. 
Drop in two pounds of helpful deeds, 
And thought for other people's needs, 
A peck of smiles will make the crust, 
Then stir and bake it well you must; 
And now we ask that you will try 
A slice from off our sunshine pie. 

— Mrs. Staples, Mettowee Cook Book. 

Lemon Pie — One cup of sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls corn 
starch, IJ/^ cups of boiling water, i^ tablespoon butter, pinch 
of salt. Cook until clear; when cold, add the yolk of 1 egg, 
grated rind and juice of 1 lemon. Line a pie plate with 
pastry and bake, then fill, beat the white to a stiff froth with 
1 tablespoon of sugar. Put in oven and brown. 

MRS. HOWARD RICH. 

Lemon Tart — One cup of sugar, y^ cup of molasses, 1 cup 
of water, 1 heaping tablespoonful flour, 1 egg, grated rind and 
juice of 1 large lemon. Line pie dish with pastry, mix sugar, 
molasses, flour, egg and lemon, add water and fill in pie dish. 

Sweet Strips for Top — One large cup of flour, 1 cup of 
sugar, 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, 
milk enough to moisten. Mix flour, sugar, baking powder 
and butter well together. Moisten with milk, roll and cut 
into strips, lay over top and bake in moderate oven. 

MRS. ELMER THOMPSON. 

Bread Custard — One-fourth cup of butter, ^ cup of white 
sugar, ^ cup of milk, 1 cup of bread crumbs, a little nutmeg. 

L. B. 



CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



German Shoo-Fly — Line 4 pie plates with rich pastry. 
Mix Yz cup of butter and lard, 3 cups of flour, 1 cup of brown 
sugar. Mix 1 cup of molasses (dark), 1 cup of boiling water, 
1 scant, level tablespoon soda. Mix all together and 
sprinkle some of the crumbs on top, or put liquid into lined 
pans and sprinkle all of the crumbs on top. Spices can be 
added. MRS. GEORGE STRICKEER. 

Why the Pie Boils Over — When the fruit in tarts boils 
over it is because the bottom heat is too strong, as is often 
the case in a gas stove. To prevent this, stand the pie dish 
in another containing water or on a tin covered with a little 
sand. 

Lemon Custard — Make a pastry and bake it. Two cups 
of water, 2 cups of sugar, 1 lemon, 2 tablespoonfuls of corn 
starch and 3 eggs. S. M. 

Doughnuts, Diamond Ponds — One cup of sugar, 1 ^^^ 
and a little salt beaten together, 1 cup of sour milk, 1 table- 
spoonful of sour cream or 1 tablespoon of hot lard out of the 
frying dish, 1 teaspoonful of soda. Flour enough to roll out 
well. MRS. HERBERT LITTLE. 

Crumb Cake — Mix thoroughly 2 cups of sugar, ^ cups of 
butter and lard, 3^ cups of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, }4 grated nutmeg. Take out ^ of the crumbs to 
sprinkle on top, add 3 well beaten eggs and 1 cup of sweet 
milk. Divide into 4 pie plates, and sprinkle crumbs on top. 
Bake quickly. MRS. GEORGE STRICKLER. 

Sweet or White Potato Pie — One and one-half pounds of 
potatoes, mashed, without milk, ^ pound of butter melted, 
6 eggs, Yd, pounds of sugar, ^ pint of milk or cream. Flour 
crust and bake until set. K. E. S. 

Molasses Doughnuts— One cup of molasses, Yz cup of 
sugar, 1 ^g^, 1 cup of sour milk, 1 teaspoonful soda, pinch of 
salt, little nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful hot lard, enough flour to 
make a soft dough. Fry in hot lard. 

MRS. HOWARD RICH. 



PIES 121 

Baking Powder Pastry— Sift together 2 cups of flour, 
y^. teaspoonful of baking powder and a pound of salt. Beat 
the white of 1 ^%g to a stiff froth and add to the flour, then 
make into a paste with ^ cup of ice water. Roll into a thin 
sheet. Divide Yz cup of butter into 3 parts. Take one of 
these parts and cut into pieces and dab over the sheet of 
pastry, dredge lightly with flour, then fold into 3 and roll 
out into a thin sheet. Repeat this with the other two pieces of 
butter. After it has been folded and rolled for the third time, 
it is ready for use. This pastry can be kept for a few days 
in a cool place. 

Mrs. Kecly's Famous Puff Pastry (for Two Pies) — One- 
half pound and 3 ounces of flour, ^ pound of butter, ^ 
pound of lard, 1 teacup of water. Cut the butter and lard in 
the flour with a knife until quite fine, then add water, a little 
at a time. It may not take the whole cup full, as the dough 
must not be too wet, using the knife to mix it. Never use 
the hands when handling the dough, as the warmth of the 
hands makes the shortening warm and hard to handle. 
Roll out in a sheet about ^4 of an inch thick, then turn the 
ends and sides of the dough inside of the rolled out sheet. 
Roll out again. Do this once more. Then roll the sheet of 
dough medium thick. Roll up as you would jelly cake. Cut 
into 4 parts, as each part is enough for 1 layer in the pie 
plate. Before putting on the top crust, wet the under crust 
around the edges with cold water which will keep the juice 
from cooking out. Have butter, lard, and flour cold, especially 
in the summer time. Use ice water. Put the butter and lard 
on ice the night before using. You can keep the dough on the 
ice for several days, if you only want to bake one pie at a time. 

MRS. FANNY KEELY, 

Lemon Tarts — One lemon grated, Ij^ cups of sugar, 1 
tablespoonful of flour, yolks of 4 eggs, 1 pint of milk that has 
been boiled and cooled. Add to milk butter size of an ^g^. 
Beaten whites of eggs add last. Line pie plate with pastry 
and pour mixture in. ELLA ROEDER FRY. 

Plain Pie Crust — One pound 2 ounces of flour, ^ pound 
of lard, a little salt ; wet with water. L. B. 



CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



New England Cream Pie — Two cups of flour, 1 cup of 
sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar, 1 teaspoonful soda, a little 
salt. Sift all together twice, put 1 egg in cup and fill cup 
with milk, add the other ingredients. Stir well and add j^ 
cup of lard and butter. Flavor to taste. This makes 2 cakes. 
Put whipped cream between and on top and serve. 

MRS. HOWARD R. RICH. 

Sliced Sweet Potato Pie — Line a pie plate with rich pastry 
and set in oven until a light brown ; slice steamed sweet pota- 
toes. Steep 2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon and 1 of cloves in ^ 
teacup of whisky and a little water, that is, take nearly ^ 
cup of whisky with a little water, making y^ cup in all, but 
nearly all whisky. Put a layer of potatoes on the baked crust, 
then bits of butter and sugar, about 1 tablespoonful of each 
for a pie, then pour over a little of the whisky and water and 
so on until the plate is filled. Bake with an upper crust. 
Apples may be used raw in the same way. 

MRS. MAXWELL. 

Workingman's Pie — Cover a pie pan with the usual pie 
dough ; add a thin layer of molasses, a cover of biscuit dough 
is then placed on the molasses. The biscuit dough is made 
as follows : Two cups of sugar ^ cup of butter, 1 cup of 
sweet milk, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Flour enough to 
roll. Sweet or sour milk can be used. When sour use 1 scant 
teaspoonful of soda. MRS. W. H. LUDEN. 

Banbury Tarts — Celebrated in Shakespeare's time and 
served at Club on Shakespeare Day. The pastry by Mrs. 
Randolph Meek. Six cups flour, 2 cups lard, 1 teaspoonful of 
salt. Moisten with ice water. The Filling^ — By Mrs. John 
F. Beyerle. Cook 2 pounds of seeded raisins, y^ pound of 
currants, 4 ounces of candied orange peel, taken through 
meat grinder, then add ^ ounce of cinnamon, scant ^ ounce 
of allspice, ]^ cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 lemon, juice and 
grated rind. Mix thoroughly and cook slowly, preferably in 
double boiler. Cut dough in 4-inch squares after rolling thin 
and place a spoonful of filling in each, turn over and moisten 
with cold water to close, press edges with prongs of fork. 
This quantity will make 4 dozen tarts. 



PAN CAKES, FRITTERS, ETC. 123 

PAN CAKES, FRITTERS, ETC. 

French Pan Cakes — Beat separately the whites and yolks 
of 4 eggs ; then put them together, adding 1 cup of milk, half 
a cupful of flour, a pinch of salt, the grated rind of a lemon 
and a teaspoonful of melted butter. Fry in small pancakes, 
turning once ; then spread each with a little fruit jelly, roll into 
a cone and sprinkle with powdered sugar. The pancakes are 
eaten piping hot. 

Batter for Fritters — Put }i of a pound of flour in a pud- 
ding bowl, melt 2 ounces of butter in a little warm water, 
blow the butter off the water into the flour, stir well, add the 
water, and when the paste is perfectly smooth moisten with 
enough warm water to make it a proper consistency; add a 
pinch of salt and 2 whipped whites of eggs, when the batter 
will be ready for use. If required for sweet fritters, employ 
milk instead of water. 



A Good Batter for Fritters — Yolks of 2 eggs beaten well, 
add y2 cupful of milk or water, 1 tablespoonful of olive oil, 
saltspoon of salt, 1 cup of flour or enough to make almost a 
drop batter. When ready to use add whites of the eggs 
beaten stiff. If intended for fruit fritters add 1 teaspoonful 
of sugar. If for clams add teaspoonful of vinegar. 

M. E. WILSON. 

Pan Cakes— Make a batter of flour, milk, yolks of eggs, 
a pinch of salt and a little brandy. Melt some butter in a 
frying pan. Pour in a large tablespoonful of batter at a time. 
When done on one side, turn, sprinkle with powdered sugar, 
fold up in shape of small omelette and serve. 

Apple Fritters — Peel some fine russet apples and cut 
them into quarters, soak for an hour in brandy, flavored with 
cinnamon and green lemon peel, after which drain them and 
dip in a thin batter. Fry in melted lard, or butter. When a 
good color, place on a baking dish, sprinkle with sugar and 
glaze in the oven. Serve very hot. 



124 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Orange Fritters — Peel your oranges, cut them into quar- 
ters, remove the pips and cover with powdered sugar. Dip into 
batter and fry in boiling lard, drain and dish up sprinkled 
with powdered sugar. 

Apricot Fritters With Brandy — Cut your apricots into 
halves, remove the stones and place each piece between 2 
round slices of bread which have been soaked in brandy. Dip 
into batter and fry in hot butter or lard until a golden brown. 
Drain, sprinkle with sugar and glaze in oven. 



ADVERTISEMENT ^^^ 



It Is Customary 




for Sunday to put in an ap- 
pearance just once out of 
every seven days, and it is 
customary for people who 
are seeking a pleasant 
change and a delicious 
Lunch or Dinner on that 
day, to go to the ; : ; 

j-Jofe? pj erkshire 



You will find it an excellent custom- 
there are ten special numbers—six to 
eight o'clock. 



126 RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS ^^^ 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 12l> 

PUDDINGS and DESSERTS 

The proof of the pudding is the eating. 

Dennison Pudding — One cup of butter, 1 cup of New 
Orleans molasses, 2 eggs, 1 cup seedless raisins, 1 cup cur- 
rants, 3 cups of flour, 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot 
water, 1 tablespoonful cloves, 1 tablespoonful cinnamon, 1 tea- 
spoonful salt. Work butter and molasses together. Put in 
moulds and steam 3^ hours. 

Sauce for Pudding — One cup of butter, 2 cups of sugar, 
1 tablespoonful cornstarch, Yz grated nutmeg, 2 eggs, 1 cup of 
sherry and Yz cup of whisky. Pour over whole of this 1 pint 
of boiling water. MRS. WILSON ROTHERMEL. 

Ashburton Pudding — Four cups of flour, 1 cup of suet, 
chopped fine, 3 cups of raisins seeded, 1 cup of molasses, 1 
cup of milk, 1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in milk. Mix well 
and boil 3 hours in a large bag or mould. 

Sauce for Pudding — One-fourth pound butter melted, ^ 
pound of sugar, 2 eggs well beaten, 1 tumbler of sherry wine. 
Cook in double boiler until creamy. 

MRS. WM. BRUSSTAR. 

Apple or Peach Dumplings (Six Dumplings) — One pint 
of flour sifted with 1 heaping teaspoonful baking powder and a 
pinch of salt. Piece of butter size of an ^%^, rubbed into flour. 
Enough milk to make a soft dough. Roll into an oblong 
shaped piece about the thickness of pie crust. Cut into six 
long narrow strips. Lay on the fruit cut into small pieces or 
slices, and sprinkle with sugar. Roll each strip and stand on 
end in a pan, giving them plenty of room. Pour into the pan a 
syrup made of >4 cup of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of butter. Fill 
the cup with boiilng water. Bake the dumplings in this syrup 
from 20 minutes to Yi hour. 

MIRIAM GEIGER YOUNG. 



130 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Stewed Apples and Rice — Peel and scoop out the cores of 
some fine, russet apples, simmer in clarified sugar until stewed. 
Blanch your rice and boil in milk. Keep it firm by adding 
milk gradually, sweeten with sugar, stir in a pinch of salt. 
When done, pour into a dish, place the apples on the rice; 
fill all spaces between the fruit with the rice, and brown in 
oven. Serve very hot. 

Huckleberry Pudding — One cup of sugar, }i cup of but- 
ter, 1 cup of sweet milk, 4 eggs, 1 pint of huckleberries, 3>4 
cups of flour, 3>'2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Bake and 
serve with brandy sauce. 

Brandy Sauce — Three-fourths cup of granulated sugar, 
1 teaspoon corn starch, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 2 cups of 
boiling water. Work butter and sugar together, mix in corn 
starch and pour on the boiling water. Let it come to a boil, 
and flavor with brandy, a little nutmeg and a small pinch of 
salt. MRS. WILSON ROTHERMEL. 

Huckleberry Pudding No. 2 — One-third cup of butter,! ^4 
cups of brown sugar, 2 eggs, 1^ cups of flour, 1^ teaspoonful 
baking powder, 1 pint berries — huckleberry, blackberry or 
cherries. ANNA L. HUFFORD. 

Chocolate Rice Pudding — One cup of rice boiled in 2^ 
cups of milk, add >^ teaspoonful of salt, boil until tender, let 
it cool, then add ^ pint of double cream whipped with 3 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 
Mould in glass dish. Melt 34 cake of chocolate with 3 table- 
spoons of powdered sugar, J4- cup of milk, flavor with vanilla 
and when cold, put over top of rice. 

MRS. HARRY SMINK. 

Spanish Cream — One package of Coxe's Gelatine dis- 
solved in 1 quart of milk, 4 dessertspoonfuls of sugar beaten 
into the yolks of 4 eggs ; stir these into the milk and gelatine, 
and heat until it forms a custard (do not boil). Beat whites 
very light, add 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar ; fold into the custard, 
pour into moulds and put on the ice. 

JANE ADDISON. 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 131 



Lemon Jelly — Take 1 ounce of gelatine, half a pound of 
sugar, the juice of 3 fine lemons and the rind of two of them. 
Warm in two pints of water until the gelatine is dissolved. 
Pass through a jelly bag into a deep bowl, and when cold 
stand on ice and whip until the jelly has thickened. Pour 
into a mould and stand in refrigerator until set. 

Fried Peaches — Cut large, juicy, yellow peaches in half, 
leave on the skin, but take out stones. Fill each half peach or 
cup with sugar and fry slowly in butter. This is a recipe from 
Miss Thoburn, California, where this dessert is a great favor- 
ite of her mother's. 

Real, Old Short Cake of Southern Fashion (Mothers' 
Magazine)— Take 3 cupfuls of flour, Yt. teaspoon salt, 2 heap- 
ing teaspoonfuls of baking powder, Yz cupful best butter, and 
sufficient rich milk to form a soft dough. Sift the baking 
powder, salt and flour together; rub the butter in with the 
fitiger tips and add milk. Work quickly, handling the dough 
as little as possible. Roll into a thin sheet and bake in a 
round greased pan in a very quick oven. Brush over with 
melted butter before putting in the oven, so that the crust 
will not harden. While the cake is baking, take 2 boxes of 
berries and divide the larger fruit from the smaller. Slightly 
crush the smaller fruit and sprinkle liberally with powdered 
sugar. When the cake is removed from the oven, allow it to 
cool slightly, then split open, spread with softened butter, and 
cover with a layer of the large berries. Dust with powdered 
sugar ; pour over half the crushed, smaller berries and syrup, 
place the upper half of the cake on top and pour over the 
rest of the fruit. Have the oven moderately warm, place the 
cake in it for 4 or 5 minutes, and send to the table covered 
with powdered sugar. This cake should be warm and fresh, 
and eaten with thick sweet cream. 

Charlotte Russe — One pint of double cream, ^ pound 
macaroons. Flavor with sherry wine. Whip cream very stiflF. 
Put layers of macaroons at bottom of dish, then a layer of 
the cream and then macaroons and so on, until all is used up. 
This will serve 8 persons. JANE ADDISON. 



132 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 

American Cream — One pint of milk, 1 envelope of minute 
gelatine (plain), yolks of 2 eggs beaten with 2 tablespoonfuls 
of sugar and a little salt. When the milk is boiling stir in 
slowly the gelatine, then add the yolks, sugar and salt. Boil 
about 3 minutes as you would soft custard. Remove from 
lire, stir in the whites which have been beaten with 2 table- 
spoonfuls sugar. Flavor to taste. 

MRS. CLARENCE LONG. 

Stewed Pears — Take pears in good condition, peel and 
halve about eight. Use heavy granite stew pan, add 1 cup of 
sugar, 4 or 5 cloves, thin slices of lemon, and cold water 
enough to scantily cover the fruit. Place on the back of the 
range and simmer, tightly covered, for three or four hours. If 
slowly cooked the pears will be dark red and almost trans- 
parent. MRS. PAULINE WILHELM, York. 

Strawberry Short Cake — Two eggs, butter size of an egg, 
2 cups of flour, ^ cup of milk, 1 cup of sugar, 1 teaspoonful 
vanilla. Cream butter and sugar together, add other ingredi- 
ents. Bake about 15 minutes. Cut cake open and put in 
strawberries, also on top and cover with whipped cream. 

DAISY BENNER. 

Canned Peaches — One gallon rock candy syrup, 1 quart 
of water, boil 10 or 15 minutes together. Put in peaches, boil 
until tender, put in jars and seal. MRS. DELANO. 

Banana Dessert — Cut ripe bananas into inch lengths, and 
roll them in finely chopped pecan meats. Crumb some mac- 
aroons, and put 2 teaspoonfuls of crumbed macaroons with ^ 
a lady finger in each dessert glass. Pour custard over this, 
and on top place 2 or 3 pieces of banana and a spoonful of 
whipped cream. 

Charlotte Russe — Boil 1 quart of milk. Stir in the yolks 
of 4 beaten eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 1 tablespoon of 
flour, boil until thick, then allow it to cool. When cool pour 
over % pound macaroons wet with sherry wine. Beat the 
whites, sweeten them, flavor with lemon. Put on top and 
brown. NORA. 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 



Carrot Pudding — One and one-half cups of flour, 1 cup of 
sugar, 1 cup chopped suet, 1 cup of raisins, 1 cup of currants, 
1 cup grated potato, 1 cup grated carrots, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 
teaspoon salt. Steam or boil 3 hours. 

I. RASHBRIDGE. 

Peach Trifle — Make a boiled custard with the yolks of 4 
eggs, 1 pint of milk, and 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. When 
cool, flavor with a small ^ teaspoonful each of almond and 
vanilla flavor, and set on ice. Cut stale sponge cake in slices, 
lay them on the bottom of a pretty dish and cover with a few 
spoonfuls of the custard. Peel and slice 6 large, ripe peaches, 
spread them over the cake, and dust thickly with powdered 
sugar. Pour over this the custard, and cover with a meringue 
made by whipping the whites of the eggs (with 4 tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar, and 4 drops of almond flavoring) to a 
very stiff consistency. 

Peach Flippe — One cup of crushed peaches, ^ box of 
gelatine, %. cup of cold water, J/^ cup of sugar, ^ pint of 
whipped cream. Dissolve gelatine with water, add sugar to 
crushed peaches then gelatine. Whipped cream last. Stir 
thoroughly. M. ELIZABETH WILSON. 

Sweet Potato Pudding — Grate a large potato and then 
mix it with enough creamy milk to make a flowing batter ; add 
an egg, yolk and white beaten separately, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar and a pinch of salt. Bake, covered, until 
solid and soft through, then put a meringue on top and brown 
this in oven. 

Another Method — Boil the potato, cut it in thick slices 
and lay these in a baking dish, with sugar and lemon juice 
between ; pour in ^^ cup of cold water and bake until the 
potatoes have absorbed this and are brown on the top. 

An Easy Pudding — Three eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, 
1 pint of milk, a little salt. Beat eggs separately, mix with 
milk then add flour, add whites of eggs last. Bake in moder- 
ate oven 20 minutes. Serve with hard sauce. 

ANNIE K. EBUR. 



134 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Spanish Cream — One-fourth box of gelatine, dissolved in 
1 pint of milk. Put on stove and stir until it dissolves. Beat 
the yolks of 2 eggs with 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, flavor with 
vanilla or lemon. Pour the milk as soon as it boils on the 
yolks, and return it again to the boiler, stirring all the time. 
As soon as it is the consistency of custard, pour into a dish. 
Have ready the whites of the eggs, well beaten with a table- 
spoonful of pulverized sugar. Mix them with the custard and 
pour into molds. S. CALDWELL, 1879. 

Maredoine of Fruit — Peel and pick to pieces with a 
silver fork a ripe sweet pineapple; place it in a large glass 
bowl, sprinkle with sugar, and add next a layer of strawberries 
(about a quart), sugar, and place on top of this 4 large oranges 
which have been peeled and thinly sliced. Cover closely with 
finely cracked ice, and pour over the whole a glassful of good 
sherry. Surmount the dish with a ball of cherries tied by the 
stems with a knot of ribbon. At dessert, when the salad is 
served, the ribbon is removed, loosening the fruit which is 
mixed with the rest in true salad fashion, with fork and spoon. 

Rice a La Conde — One-fourth pound of Carolina rice, 2 
ounces of butter, 3 ounces sifted sugar, 1 pint of milk, 1 can of 
apricots or peaches, 1 teaspoon vanilla essence, candied cher- 
ries. Wash the rice thoroughly in cold water, put into a pan 
of cold water and bring to a boil, then pour away the water. 
Add the milk and stir until boiling, then cook slowly for ^ 
of an hour stirring occasionally. Add the butter, sugar, and 
vanilla and turn into a buttered mould (one with a hole in 
the center) and set aside to cool. When cold turn out, fill 
the center with apricots or peaches and decorate with cherries. 
The peaches should be cut in half and the juice poured 
around. ANON. 

Steamed Bread Pudding — Bread crumbs soaked in cold 
water, squeeze out water, then measure 1 quart ; 1 quart bread 
crumbs, 1 cup molasses, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 cup raisins, 
y2 cup currants, a little citron, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoon- 
ful cinnamon, ^^ nutmeg, 1 pinch of cloves (if liked), 1 cup 
flour, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water and 
added last. Steam 2 hours in well buttered mould. Serve 
with hard sauce. JULIA MOULD. 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 135 

Snow Ball Custard — Beat the whites of 3 or 4 eggs stiff. 
Beat the yolks and add 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar and 1 tea- 
spoonful of corn starch. Heat 1 quart of milk in a large 
spider. When it is just scalding hot drop into the milk 6 or 7 
spoonfuls of the whites one at a time. In a few minutes turn 
them, and when cooked, take out one by one and lay on a 
dish. Do not let the milk boil, or the balls will break. Finish 
■with all the whites ; next stir in the yolks and continue stirring 
for 5 minutes, but do not allow it to boil. Flavor with lemon 
■or vanilla. Pour into a deep dish, put the balls all over the 
custard. Allow it to get cold before serving. 

MRS. T. T. lAEGER. 

Maple Mousse — One cup of cream whipped stiff, yolks of 
3 eggs well beaten, jl^ cup of thick maple syrup. Mix the 
cream and egg yolks and add the syrup little by little. If 
the syrup is not thick enough it must be boiled down and 
cooled before using. Put on ice and chill for several hours be- 
fore serving. ABIGAIL W. LIVINGOOD. 

Strawberry Short Cake — Four cups of flour, 3 teaspoons 
"baking powder, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 heaping tablespoon of lard, 
2 quarts (at least) of strawberries. Mix the flour, baking 
powder, salt and lard, well w'ith the hands, then add enough 
milk to beat thoroughly like a cake. Add enough flour to the 
-edges to handle and mould into biscuits which are rather flat. 
Put into a greased pan and bake. Split, spread with butter 
and fill wdth crushed strawberries to which sugar has been 
added. Put some whole strawberries on top and cover again 
with more crushed berries and juice. Serve immediately 
while warm. ABIGAIL W. LIVINGOOD. 

Currant Pudding — Boil currants, strain, put on stove 
again, adding cinnamon and sugar. While boiling pour sago 
in and let boil until clear. Put aside to cool. Eat with sugar 
and cream. MRS. GEORGE D. HORST. 

Gelatine — One package of gelatine, 1 pint of cold water, 
let it soak 20 minutes, then add 3 pints of boiling water, rind 
and juice of 3 lem.ons, 2 pounds of sugar and 1 pint of sherry 
wine. Strain and mould. ANNIE K. EBUR. 



136 ADVERTISEMENT 



Causes of 

I 



Long Life ' 



Th«re are many contradictory theories as to 
the causes or long lire, in individuals. 

TLere can te no difference of opinion, bow- 
ever, as to the cause of tke very long life of tke 
Farmers National Bank. 

It kas lived and grown and flourished, for 
more than 100 years, because it served the public 
well and assured tbe safety of its customers. 

It will continue to live and grow, from tbe 
same causes 

THE 

FARMERS NATIONAL BANK 

OF READING, PA. 

1 8 1 4 - Oldest Bank in Berks County - 1 9 1 6 
Resources Over $4,600,000.00 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS ^37 



138 RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 139 



mo RECIPES FROM. MY EKTE^TOS 



FROZEN DESSERTS 141 



FROZEN DESSERTS 

" So comes a reck'ning when the banquet's o'er, 
The dreadful reck'ning, and men smile no more." 

" GAY." 

Frozen Custard — One pint of milk, 1 quart of cream, 1 
tumbler light cherries, preserved, 1 small tumbler dark pre- 
served cherries, 1 teaspoonful vanilla, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 
2 eggs well beaten, 2 cups of sugar, ^ cup almonds browned 
in oven, and ground, ^ cup good sherry. Milk, eggs, flour 
and sugar boiled in double boiler. When cold, add rest of 
ingredients, add cream last, and freeze as ice cream. 

" SALLIE," YORK CATERER. 

Caramel Ice-Cream — One quart of cream, 1 pint of milk, 
2 eggs, 10 ounces of sugar, ^ cup of flour. Boil the milk. 
Beat the eggs, 1 cup or ^ the sugar and flour together, 
smoothly. Stir in the boiling milk. Brown the other half, or 
cup of sugar, with a little water ; let it boil down and become 
brown. While it is hot stir it in the hot custard, beating out 
lumps. In winter time add cream at once, then set away to 
cool before freezing. In summer allow it to cool before adding 
cold cream. 

Frozen Cranberries — To 1 quart of cranberries, two lem- 
ons. Stew berries and strain as you do for sauce. Freeze as 
you would ice-cream. MRS. IRVIN ERMENTROUT. 

Nut Caramel Ice-Cream — Melt ^ cupful of brown sugar 
and stir until it is dark brown in color. Then gradually add 
4 tablespoonfuls of boiling water and cook for 3 minutes 
longer. Heat 1 cupful of milk and thicken by adding a scant 
teaspoonful of corn starch moistened to a paste with a little 
cold water. Cook over hot water for 8 minutes. Remove 
from the fire and when cool add the caramel syrup, half a pint 
of double cream that has been whipped with 1 tablespoon of 
powdered sugar, and 1 large cupful of chopped nut meats. 
Freeze slowly in the usual manner. 



CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Stale Cake Pudding — Pack an ice-cream freezer in ice and 
salt, using more salt than you would for plain ice-cream. 
Scatter a few pieces of candied fruits in the bottom of the 
freezer, or preserved fruits, from which the syrup has been 
drained, may be used. Then put in whipped cream from 3 
to 4 inches in depth. Take slices of cake, dip them in sherry 
and lay them over the cream. Scatter bits of fruit over the 
cake, making sure that many of them are around the edge 
so that they will show when the pudding is turned out. Put 
more whipped cream, then again cake and fruit, and finish 
with the whipped cream. Cover the freezer closely, drain the 
water off, repack, and stand away for 3 hours. Turn out on 
an ice-cream platter. 



Coffee Parfait — One cup of cold, strong coffee, ^ cup of 
sugar, whites of 3 eggs, Yz pint of cream, 1 teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Boil coffee and sugar until it spins a thread. Beat 
until dry the whites of the eggs. Then pour the boiling syrup 
over the eggs, stirring all the while. Whip the cream until 
stiff, add to the coffee and eggs, add vanilla. Pour in freezer, 
pack in ice, and stand for 3 hours. G. N. 



Coffee Parfait — One cupful of sugar, 1 cupful of water, 
whites of 3 eggs, 1 cupful strong coffee, 3 cupfuls of whipped 
cream. Cook sugar and water until they form a thick syrup; 
beat the whites of the eggs and pour the boiling syrup over 
them. Cook, add the coffee and when cold, the whipped 
cream. Mix all well, and put the mixture into a mold, cover 
very closely, and bury in ice and salt for several hours. 



Frozen Fruit Salad — Peel and cut into slices 4 bananas, 
add J4 pound of candied cherries, cut into quarters, the pulp 
of 1 shaddock, 2 conserved green gages cut into small bits, and 
Yi pound of white grapes. Sprinkle over these ^ cup of 
granulated sugar, a tablespoonful of Jamaica rum, Yz pint of 
champagne. Let it stand for Yz hour; then add Y pi^t of 
cold water. Turn into a freezer until partially chilled. Serve 
at once in punch glasses. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 143 

Frozen Walnut Pudding — Clean 1 cup of raisins, cover 
them with boiling- water, drain them ten minutes, and roll 
them in granulated sugar. Beat the yolks of four eggs with 
Yz cup of sugar until light. Mix one tablespoonful of corn 
starch with a little cold milk, then gradually add two pints of 
hot milk. Cook over a hot fire for 15 minutes, stirring con- 
tinually until thick. When cool, add 1 tablespoon vanilla ex- 
tract, Yi pint of peach preserves, ^ pint of English walnuts, 
chopped fine, and the raisins. Freeze as ice-cream. When 
partly frozen add the whites of 3 eggs with ^ quarter pound 
sugar. Serve with whipped cream and halves of English 
walnuts. MRS. A. A. GERY. 

Vanilla Ice-Cream — One quart of cream, 1 cup of sugar, 
vanilla bean, or 2 tablespoons vanilla extract. 

Orange Water Ice — One quart of water, 2 cups orange 
juice, 2 cups of sugar, ^ cup lemon juice. Boil grated rind of 
2 oranges in the syrup. 

Milk Sherbet — One-half cup of lemon juice, 2 cups of 
sugar, 1 quart of milk. 

Custard — Three yolks of eggs, ^ cup sugar, 2 cups of hot 
milk, salt, ^ teaspoon flavoring. Prepare as for lemon jelly; 
beat the whites of the eggs until light, and when the jelly 
begins to thicken, add them to it. Beat until smooth, nearly 
hard, then pour into a mould. Prepare the custard and when 
cold serve it with the pudding. 

Custard Pudding — One-fourth cup pearl tapioca or rice, 
1-3 cup sugar, 2 cups of milk, 2 eggs (yolks), Yz teaspoon- 
ful salt, whites of 2 eggs, Y^ teaspoonful vanilla. Soak the 
tapioca in enough hot water to cover it, until it absorbs the 
water, add the milk and cook until the tapioca is soft and 
transparent, add the yolks of the eggs, sugar and salt, cook 3 
minutes, remove from fire, add the beaten whites and flavor- 
ing, and when cold serve. Rice, if used, must be cooked in 
boiling water until soft. — From Drexel Institute of Art, Sci- 
ence and Industry, sent in by Mrs. John B. Bowers. 



144 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Snow Pudding — One-eighth box of gelatine, yi cup cold 
water, 1 cup boiling water, 1 cup of sugar, ^ cup lemon 
juice, 3 whites of eggs. 

Hot Egg-Nog — Yolk of 1 ^g^, 2 teaspoonfuls sugar, 1 
cup hot milk, nutmeg, brandy or wine. Beat the ^gg, add 
the sugar, pour the hot milk over them, strain and flavor as 
desired. If wine or brandy is used take 1 tablespoonful. 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 147 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 



CHEESE 14& 



CHEESE 



The gourmand smiles when the moon he sees, 
For he thinks it's made of good green cheese. 



Cheese Straws — Roll out pie crust very thin, sprinkle it 
with grated cheese and cayenne pepper. Fold the crust in 
thin layers, roll it thin again, and sprinkle again with cheese. 
Fold and roll again, and cut in narrow strips or straws. 
Brown on flat pans in a moderate oven. 

INEZ RASBRIDGE. 

Cheese Croquettes — Two tablespoonfuls butter, 4 table- 
spoonfuls flour, 1 pint of milk, % pound cheese cut in small 
bits, 1 or 2 eggs, yolks only, salt and red pepper. Melt butter, 
add flour, then the milk. Stir constaintly over the fire until 
boiled smooth. Add the cheese, stirring until it is all melted 
and of smooth consistency. Beat into this the yolks of the 
eggs. Set away to cool and become stiff, then mould. Fry 
in VERY hot, deep fat, doing only a few at a time. 

MRS. WILLIAM BOYER. 

Roquefort Cheese Dressing — Mix together 1 teaspoonful 
roquefort cheese and the yolks of 2 hard boiled eggs, add 1-3 
teaspoon paprika, 3 tablespoonfuls salad oil, 3 tablespoonfuls 
of white vinegar, J4 teaspoonful salt. Chop fine the hard 
boiled whites of the 2 eggs, and add to the mixture. Serve 
on crisp lettuce. MRS. AARON SWARTZ. 

Cheese Pudding — One pint of bread crumbs, 1 pint of 
milk, iy2 cups of grated cheese (English), 2 eggs and season- 
ing. Bake 15 or 20 minutes. ANNA HUFFORD. 

Roquefort Relish — One-fourth pound roquefort cheese, 
^ pound of butter, 1 cake of Philadelphia cream cheese, %. 
green pepper, 1 dozen pimolas chopped fine. Work to a 
smooth paste and pack in small jars. K. E. S. 



150 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Welsh Rarebit — Take 1 pound of cheese for six persons, 
cut fine and melt in chafing dish with hot water pan beneath. 
Old cheese has much oil which should be taken out, as it 
produces dreams. Mix with a level teaspoonful of Coleman's 
mustard, several dashes of cayenne pepper, and when melted 
pour gradually enough beer or ale to make it thin enough to 
spread on salted crackers. MRS. HARRY MAURER. 

Tomato Rarebit — Put piece of butter size of an egg into 
a small saucepan, and melt, add 2 tomatoes, stir until they 
are hot through. Take off, add 2 tablespoonfuls of grated 
cheese, a pinch of cayenne pepper, also salt and the yolk of 1 
well beaten egg. Stir a minute or two over the fire, then 
turn out on a round of hot buttered toast. Serve hot and 
quickly. CHORLEY WOOD, ENGLAND. 

The following two recipes for cheese pudding are popular 
on the other side, and the savory cheese pudding is an especial 
favorite with Irish menfolk as a luncheon dish. 

Cheese Pudding — Boil up a pint of milk and pour it on 
1 tablespoonful of rice flour which has been mixed with a 
little cold milk. Put back into the pan and stir until it 
thickens. Remove the pan from the fire and add 4 ounces 
of finely grated cheese, a pinch of salt and cayenne, 2 ounces 
of butter and the yolks of 2 eggs. Mix all well together, 
and add the beaten whites of the eggs. Butter a pie dish, 
pour the mixture into it and bake in a moderate oven for 
20 minutes.' Sprinkle grated cheese over the top before 
serving. IRISH. 

Savory Cheese Pudding — One-fourth pound of cheese 
grated, 1 ounce of butter, oil, pepper, salt, 1 teaspoonful of 
strong, mixed mustard, 1 egg. Mix all and bake it in a but- 
tered dish 20 minutes until set. Serve it very hot. 

Cheese Pudding — One-half pound grated cheese, 4 table- 
spoonfuls bread crumbs, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, or 
% cup of milk, 1 tablespoonful melted butter, ^/^ teaspoonful 
of salt. Rub cheese and bread together, add yolks of eggs 
well beaten, then add milk or cream. Lastly, well beaten 
whites. Bake 20 minutes. MRS. J. M, ^ 



CHEESE 151 

" Alousie loves cheese — so do we." 

Macaroni With Cheese and Tomato Sauce — Put two cups 
of elbow macaroni in 2 quarts of boiling water, boil 30 min- 
utes; drain and blanch. Pour on platter; cover with sauce. 
One cup grated cheese (American), 1 teaspoonful salt, 2 table- 
spoons grated onion, 1 cup of tomatoes, 2 tablespoonfuls 
chopped parsley. Put the tomatoes and onions on to boil 5 
minutes. Add salt and cheese. Stir until cheese is melted. 
A little thickening must be added. Sprinkle top with chopped 
parsley. 

Baked Tomatoes and Cheese — Two cups of canned toma- 
toes, 2 cups of fresh bread crumbs, one cup grated strong 
cheese, one tablespoonful sugar, one teaspoonful butter, and 
one of salt. Brush bake dish with butter, put half of the 
crumbs in bottom, half of the tomatoes and half of the sugar, 
salt and cheese ; rest of the crumbs and rest of everything else 
in same order. Put in moderate oven and bake 35 to 40 
minutes. Make cheese balls same time with cream cheese 
mixed with grated green sapsago cheese, and see what an 
appetizing addition to your salad course you will have. Fill 
celery stalks with a mixture of Roquefort cheese and sherry 
or brandy. You must beat it until it is smooth. 

Blushing Bunny — A — Two tablespoonfuls butter, 2 table- 
spoonfuls flour and ^ cup cream. B — ^ cup stewed tomatoes 
and Ys teaspoon soda. C — Two eggs slightly beaten, 2 cups 
grated cheese, English Dairy, salt, mustard, and cayenne to 
taste. Make white sauce of A. Put soda in tomatoes, let 
come to a boil and strain. Add B to A, then add C and when 
nicely blended serve hot on toast or crackers. 

LOUISE R. LYONS. 



ADVERTISEMENT 



THE 



Keystone National Bank 



Reading, Penna. 



CAPITAL STOCK $100,000 
SURPLUS and PROFITS $250,000 



3 % Interest Paid on Savings Deposits 



OFFICERS: 

JOHN BARBEY. Prest. 

GEORGE B. SCHAEFFER. Vice Prest. J. E. LEBKICHER, Cashier 

JOS. N. WANNER. Asst. Cashier 



SCHUYLKILL VALLEY B^UX 

308 Penn Street, Reading, Pa. 

Capital, $100,000.00 Surplus, $230,000.00 

We pay 3 per cent, interest on savings accounts. 
Deposit your savings with us and make your money 
work for you. 

$1.00 opens an account. 
Christmas Savings Club starts December each year. 

Safe Deposit Boxes for Rent, $2.50 to $10.00 



WILLIAM H. LUDEN, HOWARD C. PHILLIPS, 

PRESIDENT CASHIER 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 153 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 155 



156 RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 



SANDWICHES 157 



SANDWICHES 

Paris Sandwich Filling — One pint of tomatoes, boiled 
down to a cupful and strained through a fine sieve, one cup 
of ground, dried beef, one cup of grated cheese, dash of cay- 
enne pepper. This quantity is enough for fifty sandwiches. 

L. F. WAGNER. 

Sandwich Fillings — Bologna and celery ground in a meat 
cutter and mixed with mayonnaise. Celery, apples, nuts, 
ground and mixed with mayonnaise. MRS. MAUGER. 

Chop pecan nuts with celery very fine. Mix with may- 
onnaise dressing and spread between thinly sliced white bread. 

Cheese Sandwich — Make plain bread and butter sand- 
wiches, cut thinly and with very thin shavings of cheese be- 
tween, melt a tablespoon of butter (bacon fat or bacon 
drippings is better) and toast the sandwiches until a nice 
even brown. Drain well, sprinkle with pepper and salt and 
serve hot. 

Raisin Sandwiches— One cup of seeded raisins, y^ cup of 
finely chopped nuts, or peanut butter, 1 level teaspoonful salt, 
2 tablespoonfuls orange or lemon juice. Wash and dry raisins, 
put through food chopper, add salt, nuts and fruit juice. Mix 
well and spread between white bread. No butter is used with 
these sandwiches. This paste will keep a long while. 

Sardine Sandwich — Remove skin and bones from a ten- 
cent box of sardines and pound the fish to a paste. Add salt, 
cayennne and a dash of lemon juice. Work the whole into a 
smooth paste and spread between thin slices of buttered 
bread, and garnish with a salt pickle. Two cents' worth of 
potato salad from the delicatessen, and a nip of black coffee, 
go well with these sandwiches. 

Slices of plain brown and white bread about 4 inches 
square and evenly buttered, can be rolled up and are more 
attractive than plain straight slices and are more easily eaten 
on a hot day. 



158 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Peanut Sandwiches No. 1 — Roll the peanuts very fine, 
stir them thickly in mayonnaise dressing and spread between 
thin slices of bread. 

Peanut Sandwiches No. 2 — Roll or pound the shelled 
peanuts and spread them thickly upon thin slices of buttered 
bread. Sprinkle lightly with salt before putting the slices 
together. 

Another filling is made by salting the powdered nut 
meats and mixing them with enough cream cheese to hold 
them together. Spread this on thin bread or crackers. These 
sandwiches are very nice to serve with lettuce salad. 

Caviare Sandwich — To 1 teaspoon of caviare paste add a 
few drops of lemon, and a little olive oil. Mix well together 
until a paste is formed. Spread the mixture on thin slices of 
buttered, white bread, cover with an unbuttered slice and cut 
down in triangle. Add to the dainty a nice tomato or a crisp 
cucumber (eaten with salt alone) a nip of black coffee and a 
doughnut. 



ADVERTISEMENT 159 



V ALLEY 



F 



ORGE 




PUKE 

Whole Food 
Products 



GpvEat Valley Mills 

Paoli, Pa. 



VALLEY FORGE RECIPE 

Whole Wheat Bread — Four cups of Valley Forge Whole 
Wheat Flour, 2 cups of milk, 1 cup molasses, 1 teaspoonful 
soda, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, y^ teaspoonful salt, 1^4 
cups raisins. First heat molasses, stir in soda, dissolved in 
water. Mix 3 cups of the flour and milk together ; stir in hot 
molasses, then stir in the last cup of flour with baking powder 
in. Beat thoroughly. Bake in moderate oven 1 hour. This 
makes 2 loaves. 



160 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Hot Breads, Muffins, Etc. 

" Here is bread which strengthens man's heart, and therefore 
called the staff of life." — Matthew Henry. 



For Six Muffins — Beat 1 egg until light, add ^ cupful of 
milk, a saltspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of sugar and 2-3 
cupful of flour. Beat well and add a level teaspoonful baking 
powder. Put the batter into six well greased gem pans, and 
bake in a quick oven for 15 minutes. ROSE W. NEAD. 

Corn Muffins — Two cups of corn meal, 1 cup of flour, 1 
teaspoonful of salt, ^ cup of sugar, 2 eggs and 1 cup of milk. 

ANNA L. HUFFORD. 

Nut Bread No. 1 — One cup of flour, ^ teaspoonful salt, 
2 heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1 pound dates, 1 pound 
English walnuts, chopped, 4 eggs beaten separately. Whites 
of eggs in last. Bake 1 hour in slow oven. 

MRS. IRVIN ERMENTROUT. 

Nut Bread for Sandwiches No. 2 — Or cut very thin for 
table. Very good. Three-fourth cup of wheat flour, }i cup 
of graham flour, ^ teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoonful baking pow- 
der. Mix these well together, then add 1-3 cup of molasses, 
1-3 cup of chopped walnuts. Mixed together with ^ cup 
milk. Bake in moderate oven for ^ hour. Bread should be 
baked the day before using. 

MRS. CHARLES REA, York. 

Nut Bread No. 3 — Beat two eggs very light, add 1 cup 
of sugar, 1 cup of milk. Sift 4 cups of flour, half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and 2 heaping teaspoonfuls Royal baking powder, 
add 1 cup of chopped nuts. Add the other mixture and stir 
thoroughly. Let stand 15 minutes. Bake in moderate oven 
from 35 to 50 minutes. 

MRS. J. D. FINLEY, York. 



HOT BREADS AND MUFFINS 161 

Brown Bread — Two cups of corn meal, 1^ cups of flour, 
2 cups of milk, 1 cup of molasses, 1 teaspoonful soda, 1 tea- 
spoonful salt and 1 tablespoon of lard (melted). Steam 3 
hours and set in oven a few minutes to dry. 

DIAMOND PONDS, 1899. 

Corn Bread — One cup yellow corn meal, 1 cup of wheat 
ilour, Yz cup granulated sugar, ^ teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoonfuls 
"baking powder, 1 large cup of milk, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful 
butter. Sift flour meal, sugar, salt and powder, three times. 
Put in butter with hands, add milk, then eggs. Bake 25 min- 
utes in moderate oven. If made exactly this way it never 
fails. 

MRS. CHARLES REA, York. 

Tea Cake — One cup of sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 eggs, 
1 cup of milk, 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Flavor with a 
little nutmeg. Bake in cake pans. Put little lumps of butter 
over the top, and sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon before 
taking. MRS. E. G. STEACY. 

Cinnamon Buns — Three tablespoonfuls butter, 3 table- 
spoonfuls sugar, 1 tablespoonful salt, 2-3 quart milk, 1 cake 
of Fleischmans Yeast, water or potato water, 3 pounds King 
Midas flour, 6 eggs (well beaten), 3 tablespoonfuls baking 
powder (heaping), 1 pound of butter, 3/2 ounce cinnamon, ^ 
pound currants, 1 pound raisins, 5 pounds dark brown sugar. 
Scald the butter, sugar, salt and milk. Let it cool until it is 
luke-warm. Then add the yeast cake, and sufficient water or 
potato water to make an even quart. Pour into bread mixer 
and add flour, turn 5 minutes, set in warm place to raise until 
morning. In the morning, add the well beaten eggs, baking 
powder and sufficient flour to make a soft dough. Roll to a 
long length, and spread with butter, sprinkle with cinnamon, 
currants, raisins, and dark brown sugar. Roll and cut as you 
would cut jelly roll. Bake in a slow oven ; turn out on a 
platter greased with butter. Dip up with a spoon the syrup 
that has run into the tins and pour over the buns. When cool, 
turn right side up and put the syrup which remains in the 
platter over the top of the buns. The above recipe makes 6 
tins of 8 buns each. PRISCILLA SELTZER, 

President of Woman's Club. 



162 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Popovers — One cup milk, 1 cup flour, 1 egg and salt. 
Beat together with Dover beater. Bake in hot muffin irons. 

ANNA HUFFORD. 

Waffles No. 1 — One cup of sour milk, 1 cup of sweet 
cream, 3 eggs, beaten separately, }i teaspoonful baking 
powder dissolved in a little vinegar. Flour enough to form a 
thin batter. MRS. SONDHEIM. 

Waffles No. 2 — One pint of sour cream, 1 pint of flour, 
2 eggs, pinch of salt, 2 heaping teaspoonfuls of Royal baking 
powder. Beat the yolks, add cream, then the flour and baking 
powder, and lastly, the whites of the eggs well beaten. Add 
salt to whites of eggs. MRS. ANNA BUSHBY. 

Tea Rolls — One cup of sweet milk, boil, then cool ; 1 cup 
of yeast or 1 yeast cake, 2 tablespoonfuls granulated sugar, a 
little butter, and a pinch of salt. Mix, stiffen and let it raise 
until morning; when light, roll and cut, let it raise again, then 
bake. INEZ RASBRIDGE. 

Raised Waffles — Dissolve a cake of compressed yeast in 
y2 cup of tepid water. Put a tablespoonful melted butter into 
a crock with 2 well beaten eggs, 2 cups of milk scalded and 
cooled, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 2^/^ cups of 
sifted flour. Beat until batter is smooth, cover and set aside 
to rise in a warm place, free from draft, for an hour or more. 
When light, stir well and bake. If too thick, add milk. If 
batter is to rise over night, use half yeast cake. 

MRS SAMUEL K. McCALL. 

Breakfast Gems — One pint of sweet milk, 1 cup each of 
graham and wheat flour, 1 egg, >4 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon 
sugar. Beat eggs separately and stir everything well together. 
Butter gem pans and have them hot when dough is put in. 
Bake in hot oven. BONNIE BRIAR. 

Corn Bread — One cup of corn meal, ^ cup of sugar, 1 
cup of flour, a little salt, J^ cup of sour cream, ^ teaspoonful 
soda in cream, 1 teaspoon cream tartar in flour. 

DIAMOND PONDS. 



HOT BREADS AND MUFFINS 163 

Johnny Cake — Two eggs, >4 cup molasses, ^ cup of 
sugar, 1 pint of buttermilk, ^ cup of butter, teaspoon soda, 1 
teaspoonful salt, 1 ounce ground allspice. Make a batter with 
2-3 corn meal and 1-3 flour. To be eaten warm. 

ESTHER, 1988, DIAMOND PONDS. 

Muffins (Fine) — One pint of sweet milk, 1 egg, 1 quart of 
flour, 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder, a little salt, a large table- 
spoonful of butter, and the same of sugar. Beat the egg 
light, then add sugar and butter, then the milk. Stir in flour 
and beat the batter light. MISS A. KENDIG. 

Corn Muffins — One cupful flour, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
1 cupful yellow corn meal, 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 cupful 
milk, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful salt, 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs well beaten and 
milk. Then turn in slowly the dry ingredients which have 
been sifted together three times. Divide into greased gem 
pans, and bake in a moderately hot oven 25 minutes. Sufficient 
for 12 muffins. 

Commeal Mush— Four cups of cornmeal, 1 tablespoonful 
salt, 4 quarts of water. Put the top of double boiler on with 
4 quarts of boiling water; add cornmeal slowly, stirring all 
the time. Add salt and when thick, put the top of boiler in 
bottom and boil two hours. This is prepared while getting 
dinner the night before. Use what you need for breakfast. 
Then add 1 cup of grated, strong American cheese ; beat until 
well mixed, pour into greased pan and set aside for luncheon. 

Cinnamon Toast — There is a tea room in Chicago and 
one in the White Mountains, " Polly's Tea House," celebrated 
for its delicious cinnamon toast. Make as follows: Cut the 
bread about y^ inch thick and toast quickly, watching care- 
fully that it may not burn. Score lightly, while piping hot, 
and spread with enough butter to sink in, then cover over 
with powdered cinnamon and granulated sugar mixed in the 
proportion of 1 spoonful of cinnamon to 2 of sugar. Remove 
the crusts and cut into fingers ; put in a very hot, covered dish 
and serve at once. 



164 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



German Coffee Cake — One quart of milk, 8 ounces of 
sugar, 8 ounces of butter, a little salt, 2 ounces of yeast, lemon 
flavor, flour, 6 eggs. Make a soft sponge of the milk, yeast 
and flour; let it rise. Then add all other ingredients. Make 
a stiff dough adding all flour required. Let rise again, roll 
out, put on a pan and let it rise again. Brush it with egg, 
sprinkle sugar and chopped almonds on top and bake. 

" GERMAN." 

Crullers — Two cups of sugar, 3 eggs, shortening size of a 
small egg, 1 teaspoonful baking powder dissolved in sour 
milk, a little nutmeg or cinnamon. Flour, stiff enough to 
roll out. Cream sugar and shortening, add eggs, then sour 
milk. Flour last. Fry in deep hot fat. 

SARAH J. WILLSON. 

Nut Bread — Two cups of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, 1 cup of milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon lard, 1 
egg, y2 cup of sugar, 1 cup nut meats chopped. Put in baking 
pan and let stand 20 minutes. Bake 40 minutes in a moderate 
oven. ABIGAIL W. LIVINGOOD. 

German Tea Cakes — Into 8 ounces of flour rub 4 ounces 
of butter. ]\Iix 8 ounces of currants, 6 ounces of fine sugar, 
yolks of 2 eggs, white of 1 and 1 teaspoonful of brandy. Make 
a stiff paste of these ingredients and roll out the thickness of 
a biscuit. Cut into rounds with a round cutter or wine glass, 
Thrush with the white of the second egg well beaten, dust with 
sugar and bake. " GERMAN." 

Fastnachts — One cup of sugar (soft white), 1 cup of 
potatoes mashed, 1 cup of butter, 2 eggs, 2^ cups of water, 1 
cup of yeast (old -fashioned hops). To 1 cup of potatoes 
mashed add 2>4 cups of water, using the water the potatoes 
were boiled in. Mix the butter and the sugar well, add eggs 
then the potato liquid ; when this is cool add the yeast. Stand 
in a warm place about 4 hours, stiffen, but not as stiff as bread 
dough. Let rise until about double the quantity. Roll out 
and cut any shape desired, let rise again and fry in deep hot 
Crisco. MRS. C. S. WANNER. 



HOT BREADS AND MUFFINS 165- 

Cinnamon Flop — One cup of sugar, 1 tablespoon butter,, 
cream together and add 1 cup of milk and 2^ cups of flour 
sifted with 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. This makes a 
stiff dough. Place in long flat pan or 2 pie pans, and sprinkle 
the top with brown sugar, butter and cinnamon. The butter 
to be put on in lumps and pushed down in the dough before 
sugar is put in. The more butter and sugar the better. 

M. ELIZABETH WILLSON. 

Suet Pudding and Dumplings — Six ounces of flour, 3 
ounces beef suet, 1 pinch of salt, 1 egg, a little milk to mix 
fairly dry. If not self raising flour, use milk and 1 teaspoonful. 
baking powder in the flour. Rub the salt into the flour, then 
the suet well flaked, beat the egg into the milk and mix the 
whole into a thick batter. Bake in greased dish about an hour.. 

If for Dumplings — The same with 2 ounces instead of 3 
of suet. Divide into balls about the size of an apricot, flour 
these and put one by one as water boils up again into boiling 
water, boil for 10 or 15 minutes. These are good eaten with 
vegetables. CHORLEY WOOD, MRS BARON. 



Apple Fritter Batter — Six full tablespoonfuls of flour, 3 
eggs, V2 cup of milk, 1 full teaspoonful baking powder. 

MRS. JAMES BROWN. 

Corn Meal Griddle Cakes — Three cups of corn meal, 1 cup 
flour, 3 cups of sour milk, 1 tablespoonful of lard, 1 cup of 
boiling water, 2 tablespoonfuls molasses, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful 
soda and the same of salt. Pour the hot water on the salted 
meal, mix in lard and stir hard until the paste is smooth. Put 
the molasses into the milk, add slowly to the wet meal, beating" 
faithfully. Then the beaten egg should go in ; lastly the flour 
with the soda mixed in. Beat up for 2 minutes. Bake ort 
griddle. ANNIE SNYDER. 



CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



VALLEY FORGE RECIPES 
Whole Wheat Bread No. 2— Two to three cups Valley 
Forge Whole Wheat Flour, 1 cup white flour, 1 yeast cake, 
1 tablespoonful salt, 5 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 tablespoonful 
shortening. Mix flour, salt and sugar, add yeast cake dis- 
solved in water, add shortening enough, stir in luke warm 
water to make stiff dough and knead. Set to raise over night. 
Put in pans and let rise, bake in a moderate oven. 

Valley Forge Old-Fashioned Buckwheat Cakes— Scald 1 
cupful of Valley Forge yellow cornmeal in a quart of boiling 
milk. Add ^ teaspoonful of salt; when cold add ^ of a 
compressed yeast cake and enough Valley Forge Buckwheat 
Flour to make a soft batter. Beat it well together. Let it 
rise over night. In the morning stir in a tablespoon of 
molasses and 1 teaspoonful of soda. 

Send for Story of Valley Forge Whole Wheat Products 
and try the various grains which are sold direct from the mill 
at Paoli, Pa., for they are not sold through the stores. 



LARGE CAKES 167 



LARGE CAKES 

She measured out the butter with a very solemn air; 

The milk and sugar also, and she took the greatest care 

To count the eggs correctly and a little bit of baking powder, 

Which you know beginners oft omit. 

Then she stirred it all together and she baked it full an hour; 

But she never quite forgave herself for leaving out the flour. 

Lady Cake — Cream 2 cups of A sugar or 1^ cups of 
granulated, Yi cup of butter, 1 cup of sw^eet milk, 2^ cups of 
flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, whites of 5 well beaten 
eggs, 1 teaspoonful vanilla or 15 drops of bitter almond. 
MRS. GEORGE STRICKLER. 

New York Biscuit — One pound soft white sugar, Yi 
pound of butter, % pound flour, 7 eggs, 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 
Cream butter and sugar thoroughly, add 1 ^^^ at a time, 
beating well, add flour and vanilla. Do not separate eggs. 
Bake in loaf. MRS. WM. DECHANT. 

Sponge Cake — Six eggs, 1^^ cups of pulverized sugar, 2 
teaspoonfuls of warm water, 1 teaspoonful vanilla and Ij^ cups 
of sifted flour. Beat for 20 minutes yolks of eggs, add other 
ingredients. Later add 1>4 cups of sifted flour, and the beaten 
whites of 6 eggs. Bake ^ hour in a moderate oven. 

MRS. SONDHEIM. 

Orange Cake Layers — Rind of 1 orange, yolks of 8 eggs, 
1 cup granulated sugar, J^ cup butter, ^ cup sweet milk, 1^ 
cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. Cream butter and 
sugar thoroughly, add eggs well beaten, then milk and last 
flour with powder, mixed. MRS. DeTURCK. 

Cheap Pound Cake — One cup of powdered sugar, Y^- cup 
of butter, 1-3 cup of milk, 3 eggs, 1 cup of flour, 1 teaspoon 
baking powder. Bake in loaf or small gem pans and ice with 
white icing. MRS. WILLIAM ROTHERMEL. 



CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Rich Molasses Fruit Cake — Prepare the fruit the day be- 
fore making the cake. Cream together one pound unsalted 
butter and a pound of sugar. Sift together a pound of pastry 
flour and a teaspoonful each cloves, cinnamon, mace and 
nutmeg and a saltspoonful of salt. Set near the fire where the 
flour will be thoroughly dried. For the fruit have ready 4 
pounds raisins seeded, quartered and dredged with flour, 3 
pounds currants or their equivalent in dates, figs or prunes 
soaked and slightly cooked, then chopped ; a pound of citron 
shaved fine, Yi. pound ground almonds and ^ pound each 
candied lemon and orange peel shredded fine. For the mois- 
ture have measured out 1 cupful confectioner's molasses, 2-3 
cup rich fruit sirup (from any preserved fruit preferred) and 
the grated rind and juice of 1 lemon and 1 orange. A J^ gill 
of brandy may be added or not, as desired. Having creamed 
the butter and sugar, add 12 unbeaten eggs, 1 at a time, using 
the hands to beat them in with instead of a spoon. When 
well blended add part of the liquid, then a portion of the flour 
mixture. Continue alternating until all have been used ; beat 
in a half teaspoonful soda dissolved in a little warm water, 
then mix in all the fruit excepting the citron. When thor- 
oughly blended put a 3^-inch layer of the batter in a pan that 
has been lined with several thicknesses of paper, taking care 
that the paper comes well above the edges of the tin. Cover 
with a uniform layer of the citron shavings, then another layer 
of batter and citron, having the last layer of the dough. 
Cover closely and set away over night. In the morning bake 
5 hours in a steady, moderate oven, protecting the top of the 
cake with paper until sufficiently risen. If preferred the cake 
can be steamed like a pudding for several hours, then set in 
the oven to finish baking. When partially cooled ice with the 
white of 1 t.%g beaten stiff with confectioner's sugar. When 
this has dried and hardened the decorative icing can be ap- 
plied. LOTTIE MYERS, York. 

Pound Cake — One pound of butter, 1 pound of sugar, 1 
pound of flour, 10 eggs, flavor to taste. Beat butter and sugar 
to a cream, add eggs, 2 at a time, last the flour, beating all 
the time. After the flour is added beat very thoroughly- 
Upon this beating depends the success of the cake. 

JANE ADDISON. 



LARGE CAKES 169 



Marshmallow Cake — Two cups of sugar, ^ cup of but- 
ter, 2-3 cup of milk, 2^ cups of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder sifted in flour, 2 eggs, whites only beaten stiflF. 

Icing — One-half pound of marshmallows, put in a bowl 
and placed in hot water to soften, 1 cup granulated sugar, 4 
tablespoonfuls water; beaten white of 1 Ggg. 

MRS. IRVIN ERMENTROUT. 

Madison Cake — One pound of butter, 1%. pounds of sugar, 
5 eggs, 1 pint sweet milk, 1 scant teaspoonful soda, 1% 
pounds of flour, 2 pounds cut raisins, 1 nutmeg grated. Cream 
butter, add sugar, drop a whole egg in, 1 at a time, beat 2 
minutes until all are in, add milk and soda, dissolved in cold 
water, flour raisins and add last. 

MRS. P. M. ZIEGLER. 

Butter Sponge Cake — One cup of sugar, ^ cup of 
butter melted, 5 eggs, 1 cup of flour, 1 scant teaspoon of 
baking powder. Add butter after all the other ingredients. 

INEZ RASBRIDGE. 

Walnut Tart — Yolks of 6 eggs, 6 tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar, 6 tablespoonfuls English walnuts, 3 tablespoon- 
fuls flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of baking powder. Beaten whites 
of six eggs last. 

Iceing for Above Cake — One-half pound confectioner's 
sugar, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1 tablespoonful of cream and 
2 teaspoons of brandy. MRS. SONDHEIM. 

Ginger Bread — One cup of butter or good lard, 1 cup of 
brown sugar, 1 cup of molasses, 1 egg, iy2 cups of sour milk 
or water can be used ; 2 teaspoonfuls of soda dissolved in a 
little hot water, 3^/^ cups of flour, 1 teaspoonful each of ginger, 
cinnamon and cloves. MRS. CLARENCE LONG. 

Tiptop Cake — Two cups of granulated sugar, 1 cup of 
butter, 4 eggs beaten separately, 1 cup of milk, 3 cups of 
sifted flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, flavor to taste. 
Bake in layers or loaf. MRS. RALPH McCALL. 



CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Scripture Cake — One cup of butter, Judges 5.25 ; 2 cups 
A sugar, Jeremiah 6.20; S^/^ cups of flour (prepared), is>l 
Kings 4.22; 2 cups of raisins, 1st Samuel 30.12; 2 cups of 
figs, 1st Samuel 30.12 ; 1 cup almonds. Genesis 43.11 ; 1 cup 
of water. Genesis 24.20; 6 eggs, Isaiah 10.14; a little salt, 
Leviticus 2.13 ; sweet spices to taste, 1st Kings 10.2 ; a large 
iron spoon of honey. Exodus 16-31, Follow Solomon's advice 
for making good boys. Proverbs 23.14 (first clause), and you 
will have a good cake. 

MRS. GEORGE STRICKLER. 

Fruit Cake — One pound of butter, 1 pound light brown 
sugar, 10 eggs ; cream butter and sugar, then add eggs one by 
one. Two pounds raisins, 2 pounds currants, ^ pound citron, 
y2 pound figs, 1 pound almonds, 2 nutmegs, }i gill brandy, 
^ pound candied orange and lemon peel, 1 glass preserved 
cherries. After fruit is well mixed add 1 pound flour. Bake 
2 hours. This makes two large cakes. 

KATIE DeTURCK. 



Silver Cake — Two cups of sugar, ^ cup of butter, 2^4 
cups of flour, ^ cup of sweet milk, J^ teaspoonful soda dis- 
solved in milk, whites of 8 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar. Mix butter and sugar to a cream, add the whites of 
the eggs, beaten stiff, half of the flour, then milk and soda, 
then the rest of the flour. Stir together several minutes. 
Bake 1>4 hours. 

Gold Cake — To the well beaten yolks of 8 eggs add 1 cup 
of sugar, % cup of butter, 2 cups of flour, ^ teaspoonful of 
baking soda in jE^ cup of sweet milk, 1 teaspoonful cream of 
tartar in flour. Mix well. Bake IJ^ hours. 

CLARA L. WILLSON. 

Spice Cake — Two cups of granulated sugar, 1 cup of 
butter, 3 eggs beaten separately, 3 cups of sifted flour, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder, 1 cup of milk, 2 teaspoonfuls of 
cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful of cloves, 1 teaspoonful of grated 
nutmeg. Bake in loaf or layers. 

MRS. RALPH McCALL. 



LARGE CAKES 171 



Pecan Cake — Mrs. McKee, daughter of former President 
Harrison, makes pecan cake according to the following recipe : 
Beat the whites of 6 eggs to a stiff froth, beat together 1 cup 
of butter and 2 of sugar, and beat in a little of the egg. Add 
1 cup of flour, ^ cup of sweet milk, another cup of flour 
mixed with 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder; then add the 
remainder of the egg. 

Filling and Icing for Pecan Cake — Chop 2 cups of pecans, 
soak them in grated pineapple, and stir them into the whites 
of 6 eggs, beaten stiff with powdered sugar. Put whole 
pecan kernals over the top of the cake while the icing is soft. 

Fudge Cake — One-half cup of butter, ^ cake Baker's 
chocolate, 1>4 cups of sugar, boiled in ^ cup of milk. Add, 
after it cools a little, 3 eggs beaten separately, 1 level tea- 
spoonful soda dissolved in ^ cup of boiling milk, 2 cups of 
flour and 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Icing — One cup of milk, 1 pound granulated sugar, ^ 
cake Baker's chocolate, 1 large lump of butter, pinch of salt, 

1 teaspoonful vanilla. Boil until it forms a very soft ball, 
then beat until almost sugary. Bake in layers with icing 
between. MRS. WM. BOYER. 

Black Joe Cake — Dissolve 2 ounces chocolate in 5 table- 
spoonfuls boiling water. Let cool. Beat ^ cup butter to a 
cream and add gradually 1% cups of granulated sugar. Add 
yolks of 4 well beaten eggs and beat all very hard. Add 
melted chocolate, ^ cup of sweet milk, 1^ cups of flour. 
Beat vigorously, add 1 heaping teaspoon baking powder, 1 
teaspoon vanilla, whites of 4 well beaten eggs. 

EMMA HENDEL SPANG. 

Jackson Cake — The weight of 4 eggs in sugar, 3 in flour, 

2 in butter. Flavor to taste. Work eggs in one by one with- 
out beating. Bake about 45 minutes. ANNIE K. EBUR. 

Icing — Boil until it spins a threat 2 cups of sugar and 
1 cup of water. Then drop it slowly into whites of 2 well 
beaten eggs and beat until thick. Flavor. Bake in loaf or 
layer. MRS. GEORGE STRICKLER. 



172 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Butter Sponge — Six eggs, 1 cup granulated sugar, 1 cup 
flour, ^ cup melted butter, flavor to taste. Beat eggs and 
sugar 20 minutes, add butter and flour and bake slowly. 

KATE DeTURK. 

Chocolate Cake — One and one-half cups of granulated 
sugar sifted, >4 cup of butter (scant), 1^ cups of flour sifted, 
Yi cup of milk, 4 eggs, 1 heaping teaspoonful baking powder, 

2 ounces or 2 squares of chocolate, dissolved in 5 tablespoon- 
fuls of boiling water. Prepare the chocolate and set aside. 
Cream butter and sugar thoroughly, then add the yolks of the 
eggs well beaten, then the chocolate and milk, lastly the flour, 
sprinkle baking powder in the mixture lightly. Beat well. 
Fold in the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. I never mix my 
baking powder in the flour, but lightly sprinkle it in before I 
fold in the whites. Bake in loaf or layer with white icing. 

MRS. WM. DECHANT. 

Lady Cake — One cup of butter washed, 2 cups of sugar, 

3 cups of flour, y^ cup of sour cream, whites of 10 eggs, small 
teaspoonful of soda, 2 of cream tartar. Flavor with bitter 
almond. Beat butter and sugar together, add flavoring, then 
flour and whites of eggs (beaten stiff). Let the eggs be the 
first and last thing added. Mix soda and cream of tartar 
with the flour dry. S. M. S. PRICE. 

Date Cake— One and one-half cupfuls dates (chopped), 
1 cup of English walnuts chopped, y^ cup of shell bark kernels 
(chopped), \y^ cups of pulverized sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls 
flour, \y2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 3 eggs. Take a little 
of the flour, to flour dates and nuts. . Mix all the ingredients 
except eggs which you drop in without beating. Stir the 
mixture well and bake in a moderate oven 1 hour. 

Butter Sponge— Fourteen eggs, the weight of 14 eggs in 
pulverized sugar, the weight of 7 eggs in butter, the weight of 
8 eggs in flour, the juice and rind of a lem.on. Cream butter 
and sugar and add 1 ^zz at a time. Last of all flour and 
lemon. Half this quantity may be used. 

A. E. COLEMAN. 



LARGE CAKES 173 



Soft Ginger Bread — One cup of sugar, 1 cup New Orleans 
molasses, >4 cup of butter and lard mixed, 1 cup of sour cream 
or milk, 2 teaspoonfuls of ginger, 2 of cinnamon, 1 of cloves, 
a little grated nutmeg, 2 teaspoonfuls of soda dissolved in 
boiling water, 3 cups of flour, 2 eggs. Mix sugar, lard and 
butter, spices, eggs and molasses together. Beat well, then 
stir in the milk, soda, and lastly, the flour. Bake in a moderate 
oven. NORA lAEGER. 

Apple Sauce Cake — One cup of sugar, ^ cup of short- 
ening, 13^ cups of apple sauce, 1 cup of raisins, 1 cup of cur- 
rants, 1 cup of citron, 2 even teaspoons of soda in hot coffee, 
1 teaspoonful of cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg, 2 cups of sifted 
flour. M. ELIZABETH WILLSON. 

Chocolate Joe Cake — Boil together well ^ cup Wilbur's 
cocoa, Yz cup of milk and 1 cup of granulated sugar until 
thoroughly melted. Cool in water. Cream together 1 cup of 
granulated sugar and ^ cup of butter, then add beaten yolks 
of 2 eggs, beat well, add boiled mixture, 2 cups of flour, Yz 
cup of milk, Y^ teaspoon baking soda in ^ cup of hot water. 
Last of all beaten whites of eggs. 

EMMA HENDEL SPANG. 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 



176 RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 



SMALL CAKES 177 



SMALL CAKES 

Drop Cakes — One pound granulated sugar, ^ pound 
butter, 4 eggs, 1% cups of thick milk, l}i pounds of flour, 1 
teaspoonful baking powder dissolved in hot water, pour water 
•off, add soda to thick milk, 1 pound small seedless raisins or 
-currants. Cream sugar and butter, add eggs, then milk with 
soda, and flour and raisins. Drop on tins and bake a light 
brown. SUSAN BEARD. 

Peanut Wafers — One cup of soft white sugar, y^ cup of 
"butter, ^ cup of milk, 1 quart of peanuts crushed. Spread 
very thinly on sheets of iron, sprinkle thickly with the crushed 
nuts and bake in a hot oven. MARGARET HODGES. 

Boston Buns — One egg, 1 teaspoonful sugar, butter size 
iof an egg, 1 cup of milk, 3 cups of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder. Drop on greased tins with spoon. 

MRS. WM. DECHANT. 

Hermits — Three eggs, 1^ cups of sugar, 1 cup of butter, 

1 cup of raisins ground, 2 tablespoonfuls of sour milk, 1 tea- 
spoonful of soda, 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon, ^2 nutmeg, flour 
enough to roll out and cut. Bake in quick oven. 

MRS. FRED ROWEN, 

Diamond Ponds. 

Jumbles — Two cups of sugar, 1 cup of butter, ^ cup of 
-sour milk 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, 4 cups of flour. 
Drop on tins and brush with egg, sugar and cinnamon. 
MRS. WILSON ROTHERMEL. 

Fruit Cookies — One-half cup of butter, ^ cup of sugar, 

2 eggs beaten separately, y^ teaspoonful cinnamon, 1 tea- 
spoonful cloves, ^ teaspoonful soda in }i cup hot water, 1^ 

-cups of flour, 1 cup of nut meats, 3/2 pound chopped dates, 
^2 pound seedless raisins, a little lemon juice. Drop on tins 
^nd bake quickly. MRS. W. E. FISK. 



178 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Small Cakes — One-fourth pound of butter, 1 cocoanut, 
23^ cups of sugar, 1^ pounds of flour, 1 pint New Orleans 
molasses, 1 scant teaspoonful soda. 

MRS. P. M. ZIEGLER. 

Chocolate Drops — One-half pound brown sugar, ^ pound 
grated chocolate, 10 heaping tablespoonfuls flour, 2 table- 
spoonfuls butter, 2 tablespoonfuls lard, 1 teaspoonful of bak- 
ing powder in ^ cup of sour cream. Drop on tins and bake 
in quick oven. MRS. J. V. R. LEINBACH. 

Sugar Cakes — Sift 5 cups of flour, 3 cups of sugar, add 1 
cup of butter and lard, nutmeg if desired. Mix all thoroughly, 
then add 3 well-beaten eggs, 1 cup of sour milk, 2 teaspoon- 
fuls soda, 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. Drop on tins, sprinkle 
with granulated sugar, and bake quickly. 

MRS. GEORGE STRICKLER. 

Peanut Macaroons — Whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff, then 
add slowly 1 cup of granulated sugar, 1 quart of peanuts 
chopped fine. Mix together and bake in a moderate oven. 

M. S. PRICE. 

Ginger Wafers — One-half pint of baking molasses, ]/% 
pound of brown sugar, ^ pound (scant) lard melted, 1 table- 
spoonful soda, scalded in hot water, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, 
1 tablespoonful of ginger and 6 cups of flour. Roll very thin 
and cut with Christmas cutters. 

MRS. CLARENCE LONG. 

Hickory Nut Cakes — One pound of A sugar, whites of 4 
eggs, 6 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 quart of hickory nut kernels. 
Beat the eggs light, add sugar, y^ spoonful at a time, then 
flour, roll kernels and add last. Drop 1 teaspoonful on pans 
at a time. F. W. ECKERT. 

Drop Cakes (Very Rich) — One cup of sugar, 1 cup of 
butter, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoonful soda in 1 tablespoonful of hot 
water. Flour to drop on tins. Try 2 1-3 cups, adding more 
if necessary. Bake in hot oven. 

MRS. GEO. STRICKLER. 



SMALL CAKES 



Ingram Sponge Cake — One cup of flour, 1 cup of sugar 
into which mix 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Beat 3 eggs 
separately. Add to the yolks 3 tablespoonfuls of water and 
the juice and rind of half a lemon. Mix this with the flour 
and sugar, and last of all, add the whites of the eggs. Bake 
in greased gem pans. ROSE NEAD. 

Blackberry Cakes — Mix 1 pint of flour, 1 cup of sugar, 
l}i teaspoonfuls baking powder. Beat well 1 egg and add 
1 cupful of milk. Mix the milk and egg with the other 
ingredients, then add J^ pint of blueberries, well floured to 
prevent settling. Bake in greased gem pans. To be eaten 
hot, well buttered. ROSE NEAD. 

Cinnamon Cakes — One cup of sugar, 1}4 cups of milk, 
3 cups of flour, ^ cup raisins, 1 tablespoon of lard, ^/^ tea- 
spoonful of salt, 1 egg, rind of 1 lemon, 3 tablespoons baking 
powder. Beat egg light and add milk. Add lard to flour, 
salt and baking powder, adding egg and milk to dry in- 
gredients. Lastly, raisins, floured slightly. Melt butter for 
over top, and mix cinnamon and sugar to sprinkle over top. 

F. W. ECKERT. 

English Cookies — One cup of brown sugar, ]^ cup melted 
lard, 1 egg, 3 tablespoons of sour cream, ^ teaspoonful soda, 
1 cup of chopped raisins, ^ teaspoon each of nutmeg, cloves 
and cinnamon. Mix well with flour for rolling. 

INEZ RASBRIDGE. 

Sugar Cookies — Cream 2 pints of sugar with 1 pint of 
butter, add 3 eggs, 7 tablespoonfuls of cold water, ^ tea- 
spoonful soda dissolved in water, 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder sifted with the flour, a pinch of salt. Flour to roll. 
Flavor to taste. Set in a cool place over night and bake in 
the morning. MRS. J. F. ANCONA. 

Ginger Cakes — One-half pound of butter, 1 cup of sugar, 
1 cup of New Orleans molasses, 4 cups of flour, 4 eggs beaten 
separately, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder dissolved in warm 
water, 1 teaspoonful ginger, cinnamon and allspice. 

FRANCES WHEELER ECKERT. 



CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Molasses Cakes — One cup of yellow sugar, ^ cup of 
butter, 1 teaspoon cinnamon (beat to a cream), 2 eggs well 
beaten, 1 cup New Orleans molasses, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 tea- 
spoonful baking powder dissolved in milk, 3 large cups of 
ftour and 1 teaspoonful of cream tartar in flour, 

CLARA L. WILLSON. 

Old Fashioned Molasses Cakes (Recipe for Five)— One 

cup of soft A sugar, ^ cup of butter, 1 egg, 1 cup molasses, 
1 even teaspoonful baking powder dissolved in vinegar, 3 
heaping cups of flour, 1 cup of thick milk. Mix sugar and 
butter to a cream, add egg, beat well, then soda and thick 
milk. Last of all, flour. Bake in rather hot oven. 

MRS. GUS. SCHAEFFER. 

French Biscuits — These are extremely good and taken 
from a very old cookery book of the last century. Three 
eggs, the weight of the eggs in flour, and equal quantity of 
powdered sugar; 1 ounce of candied lemon peel. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and then whip in the 
candied peel, chopped extra fine, then, by degrees, beat in the 
sifted flour and sugar, and lastly, slip in the yolks of the 
eggs. Blend all together with a wooden spoon, then shape the 
biscuits with the spoon. Drop them on a greased paper on 
a tin. Shake some confectioner's sugar over them and bake 
in a very slow oven. 

Oatmeal Cookies (Very Fine) — Two and one-half cups 
oatmeal (Mother's oats), 1^ cups of granulated sugar, }^ 
teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Mix these 
dry ingredients thoroughly. Beat together 2 eggs until light, 
to that add 5 tablespoonfuls melted butter, vanilla to taste. 
Mix butter and eggs to dry ingredients, mixing well, no flour. 
Drop on tins size of hickory nut, no larger, as they spread. 
Let cool a few minutes before taking off tins with flat knife. 

MRS. C. H. RUHL. 

Oat Flake Cakes — One cup granulated sugar, 1 cup butter 
and lard mixed, 2 eggs, J^ cup of sweet milk, ^ teaspoonful 
soda dissolved in milk, 2 cups of oat flakes, 2 cups of flour, 
pinch of salt, 1 teaspoonful each of cinnamon, nuts and 
raisins. INEZ RASBRIDGE. 



SMALL CAKES 



Chocolate Macaroons (Very Fine) — The whites of 6 
eggs, 1 pound of pulverized sugar, 1 cake of Walter Baker's 
chocolate (grated), a little vanilla. Beat the whites very stiff 
and slowly add sugar. The chocolate, too, must be added 
slowly and the whole mass stirred until very smooth. Drop 
on buttered tins and bake in a moderate oven. The success 
of the cakes depends largely upon the baking. Half the 
quantity is used oftener than the whole. 

BELLE V. EBUR. 

No Name — The following two are very old recipes and 
are for a larger quantity than the modern household requires, 
but it is easy to use ^ or ^. Cream together 1 pound butter, 
1 pound powdered sugar, then add 1^4 pounds of fine pastry 
flour and six eggs, alternately beating each addition. Lastly, 
add ^ pound of cleaned and picked currants, and the grated 
rind of a lemon. Bake in small tins in a fairly hot oven. 



182 RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 



CHRISTMAS CAKES 183 

CHRISTMAS CAKES 

In olden times it was the custom to bake at Christmas 
a great variety of small cakes. The more variety you had on 
the plate or in the basket to send your neighbor the better 
was she pleased. Mrs. Ermold keeps up the old time custom 
and has sent me a few of the best recipes out of her several 
dozen varieties. 

MRS. CLARA ERMOLD'S CHRISTMAS CAKES 

Drop Sand Tarts — One pound of granulated sugar, 3 
€ggs, ^ pound of butter, 10 ounces of flour, nuts and cin- 
namon ; chill the dough and drop with a teaspoon on buttered 
tins. 

Almond Macaroons — One pound granulated sugar, 1 cup 
of cold water, boil it as you would for icing till it forms a 
little ball. Beat the whites of 4 eggs, pour into the sugar, 
then add 1 pound of grated almond paste. Beat well. Drop 
on tins and bake 20 minutes. 

Pepper Nuts — One-half pound butter, 1 pound sugar, 4 
eggs, 1 tablespoonful each of cloves and cinnamon, 2 tea 
spoonfuls soda, dissolved in a little milk, 1 pound and 2 ounces 
flour. Drop on tins. 

Butter Scotch Cakes — Six ounces of butter, 1 pound 
brown sugar, 1 pound flour, 1 pint New Orleans molasses, 

1 cocoanut. Mix night before. Drop on tins or roll quickly 
around a buttered stick and bake on tins. 

Paper Jumbles — One half pound of butter, Yz pound 
pulverized sugar, 3 eggs, 9 ounces flour, 1 teaspoonful vanilla, 

2 teaspoonfuls good sherry wine ; not to roll, but spread out on 
tins. 

Chocolate Cakes — One-half pound granulated sugar, Ya, 
pound grated chocolate, 2 ounces of butter, 2 eggs, 1 even 
tablespoonful of cloves, also cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful soda, 4^ 
ounces of flour. Roll in sugar or nuts, form in any desired 
shape — long round or square. 



184 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Maple Flake Macaroons— One cup of sugar, 1 tablespoon 
of butter, 2 eggs, 3^/^ cups of maple flake, 2 teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, 1 teaspoonful vanilla. Drop on tins size of 
quarter. 

Biscuits — Two pounds of flour, work like pie dough with 

1 pound of butter, 1 pound of sugar, 6 eggs, 1 teaspoonful soda, 

2 teaspoonfuls Royal baking powder. Cut with biscuit cutter. 

Rock Cakes — Two cups of sugar, 2 cups of flour, butter 
size of walnut, 3 eggs, 5 drops of oil of bitter almond. Ball 
them in your hand. Dip them in sugar and put a raisin or 
nut in center. 

Sand Tarts — Three-fourth pound of butter, 1 pound of 
sugar, 1 pound of flour, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 whole one. Dab 
with yellow of egg and milk; put on sugar, cinnamon and 
nuts. 

Cocoanut Jumbles — One pound butter, 1 pound sugar, 
4 eggs, 1 pound of grated cocoanut, 1 pound flour. Put 
through jumble squeezer. C. CRECELIOUS. 

Jumbles from Yellows of Eggs — One-half pound of but- 
ter, ^. pound of sugar, 8 yellows of eggs. Flour enough to 
make stiflF/ Flavor with vanilla. Put through jumble 
squeezer. MRS. EBUR. 

Cocoanut Puffs — Two cups of prepared cocoanut, 1 cup 
of powdered sugar, whites of 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
flour. Drop on tins. L. BUSHONG. 

Cocoanut Cones — Weigh the cocoanut, ^ its weight in 
sugar, 1 tablespoonful of flour, form into cones. 

MRS. WM. STRICKLAND, SR. 

Drop Currant Cakes — One pound of butter, 1 pound of 
sugar, 1 pound, very good weight, flour, 4 eggs, ^ teaspoonful 
soda in y2 cup of milk, 1 pound currants, ^ nutmeg, ^ glass 
good sherry. Drop on tins with teaspoon. If they spread 
too much add a little more flour. MRS. KEELY. 



CHRISTMAS CAKES 185 

Little Pound Cakes — Two cups of sugar, 1 cup of butter, 
3 cups of flour, yellows of 5 eggs, whites of 3, 1 cup of milk, 
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Icing for Above Cakes — One cup of sugar, 4 tablespoon- 
fuls of water, boil and pour over the whites of the 2 eggs 
kept out of the cake recipe. MRS. WALT HAGY. 

Mother's Biscuit for Cutting — One pound of sugar, y^ 
pound of butter, 1 pound of flour, very good weight, 4 eggs, 
>2 cup sweet milk, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder. Mix 
night before baking and keep in cold. Use Christmas cutters 
(dogs, cats, horses, etc.) to cut them out with. 

MRS. T. T. lAEGER. 

All these cakes roll out and bake better if the dough is 
made the night before baking; and kept in the cold whiU 
using. 



CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Jellies, Butters and Conserves 

" The happiest time is over, for Mrs. Green Gage Plum 
Says she knows, unto her sorrow, preserving time has come." 

Cherry Butter — Stem and stone cherries, put them 
through the chopper. To 1 cup of cherries put 1 cup of 
sugar, boil about ^ hour until it thickens. 

MRS. WM. DECHANT. 

Lemon Butter — One pound of powdered sugar, ^ pound 
of butter, the whites of 4 eggs, the yolks of 6 eggs, rind of 1 
lemon, juice of two. Beat the yolks of the eggs, sugar and 
butter together, until very light, then add the whites well 
beaten. Heat the mixture in a double boiler, stirring con- 
stantly until it thickens, then add the lemons and turn into 
an earthen vessel until it cools. ROSE W. NEAD. 

Rhubarb Conserve — One lemon, 1 pound of dried figs, 4 
pounds of sugar, and 2 pounds of fine nut meats, to 5 pounds 
of rhubarb. Cut the rhubarb into inch lengths, break or cut 
the figs into small pieces and grate the yellow peel from the 
lemon. Pour the juice over the ingredients, and stand away 
for the night. Then simmer slowly for an hour, and when 
thick, turn into glasses. 

Cherry Jam — Stone and stem tart cherries, saving all the 
juice. To every pound of fruit allow a pound of sugar. Put 
sugar and juice in preserving kettle over the fire and when 
sugar is entirely dissolved add cherries. Cook until syrup 
is thick. 

Mint Jelly — Make about 12 glasses of apple jelly. When 
ready to pour out, take some of the jelly and mix with it 
about ^ of a teaspoon of green vegetable coloring. Stir until 
it dissolves, then add 1 tablespoonful of spearmint flavoring. 
Stir this into the whole amount of jelly and boil about 5 
minutes longer. MRS. AARON SWARTZ. 



JELLIES, BUTTERS AND CONSERVES 



Pineapple Honey — One large pineapple, grated, 3 pounds 
granulated sugar, 1 pint of boiling water. Boil 15 minutes. 

ELLA R. FRY. 

Grapefruit Marmalade — One grapefruit, 1 orange, 1 
lemon. Slice very thin, removing seeds. Add 3 quarts of 
water and let it stand 24 hours. Boil 10 to 20 minutes, allow 
to stand 24 hours again. Add to the fruit and juice an equal 
quantity of sugar, about 5 pounds, boil 2 hours or until it 
will jelly when chilled. Pour into jars, or glasses. 

MARY BRISTER. 

Rolled Cherries (A Very Old Recipe)— To taste as if 
done in brandy. Wipe tart cherries well and put in a large 
stone jar, or a small brandy keg. Use 1 pound of the best re- 
fined sugar to every 3 ounces of the fruit, putting in the 
cherries and sugar in layers. Close the keg or jar tightly and 
roll backwards and forwards for 10 minutes every day for 
6 weeks. 

Grape Conserve — Five pounds of grapes, 1 pound English 
walnuts, 3 oranges, 4 pounds of sugar, 2 pounds seedless 
raisins, or 5 pounds grapes, 5 pounds sugar, 2>4 pounds raisins, 
5 oranges, sliced thin, 1 pound walnuts. Wash grapes and 
squeeze out pulp. Boil pulp enough to squeeze out seeds 
over strainer. After removing seeds add skins, oranges, 
sugar and raisins. Boil 30 minutes, or until it begins to jam. 
Use all of orange, grate rind. MARY BRISTER. 

Plum Conserve — Three pounds of damsons (stoned). 
Put stones in water enough to cover, and let simmer. Strain 
into the plums. One and one-half oranges cut fine, 1^ 
lemons, grate rind and add juice, 1 pound seeded raisins (cut 
fine) and 3 pounds of sugar, 1 pound English walnut meats 
cut fine and put in during the last 15 minutes. Cook all 1^ 
hours and put in jelly cups. 

Currant Jelly — Pick currants from the stems, heat v/ith 
a little water and mash, put in a bag to drain. Boil 1 pint of 
juice (hard) 6 minutes and add 1 pound of sugar slowly and 
put in glasses. ANNIE K. EBUR. 



188 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Kippered Cherries — Take sour cherries, stone them, then 
put in a stone crock and cover with vinegar and let stand 24 
hours. Drain off all the vinegar and weigh the fruit. To 
each pound of fruit take 1 pound of sugar. Put all in a 
stone crock and let it stand 7 days, stirring well each day. 
Keep in a cool place. At the end of 7 days, they are ready 
to can; put in jars and seal. 

Preserved Strawberries (Sounds Good) — Pick the best 
and finest strawberries on a dry sunny day, when the dew is 
off. Put them into glass jars and strew over them 3 large 
tablespoonfuls of fine sugar. Fill up the jars with Maderia 
wine or sherry, and cork well. 

Lemon Butter — Three tablespoons butter, 1 cup granu- 
lated sugar, grated rind and juice of 1 lemon, Y^ teaspoonful 
vanilla. Melt the butter, then add the sugar and stir until 
it is dissolved. Stir gradually into butter and sugar the yolks 
of three eggs well beaten and mixed with the lemon juice; 
lastly, add the beaten white of 1 ^^%. Boil the whole until like 
custard, then add vanilla. Let it get cold before using. 

MISS MARY SMYSER. 

Lemon Butter (English Recipe) — The juice and grated 
rind of 3 lemons, 3 eggs well beaten, 1 pound of sugar, 1 
small cup of water, 1 level teaspoonful of butter. Beat well 
together and boil 5 minutes until thick. Put in jelly glasses. 

Nut Hash (Candy) — One pound of assorted nuts, 5 
cents' worth peanuts, 3 cups of A sugar, 1 cup of water, 2 
tablespoons vinegar, tablespoonful butter. Boil all together 
until syrup becomes a dark yellow in centre of pan, then add 1 
teaspoonful vanilla and pour over nut meats. 

MRS. GEO. STRICKLER. 

Chocolate Caramels — One-half pound Baker's cohocolate, 
Yi pound of butter, 2 cupfuls molasses, 1 cupful cream, 2 cups 
of granulated sugar. Boil all together until it hardens in 
cold water. Pour into buttered pans and when nearly cold 
mark into squares. 

EMMA HENDEL SPANG. 



JELLIES, BUTTERS AND CONSERVES 189 

Plum Conserve — Four pounds of plums, 4 oranges, juice 
and rind chopped, 1 pound English walnuts, 3 pounds of 
sugar. Boil until thick. Makes 14 glasses. 

Tutti Frutti, or Brandied Fruit — To 1 cup of brandy- 
allow 1 cup of sugar and 1 cup of fruit, light colored fruit 
only, like pineapple cut into small pieces, pitted cherries, 
white grapes, oranges and sliced bananas and lemons. Use 
a stone jar in which the brandy and fruit are allowed to 
remain cool and undisturbed, except for an occasional stirring 
with a silver spoon. 

Bar le Due — Eight quarts of currants, almost equal 
weight of sugar, 1 pint of strained honey. Stem and wash the 
currants, place in shallow granite pans. Cover with the sugar 
and let stand over night. Put over a slow fire and when it 
comes to a boil add the honey and boil slowly for 20 minutes. 
Do not stir any more than necessary. Place in small glasses 
and cover the same as jelly. ABIGAIL W. LIVINGOOD. 

Leonora's Caramels — One cup of sweet cream, 1 cup of 
molasses, 1 lump of butter size of an egg, 1}^ cups of sugar, 
lyz cup of Baker's chocolate last, 1 teaspoonful vanilla. Boil 
all together until it hardens in cold water. Pour into buttered 
pans and when nearly cold mark into squares. 

Chocolate Caramels — One-half cake Walter Baker's 
chocolate, 3 cups granulated sugar, 1 cup milk, 1 cup molasses, 
1 cup butter and 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

MARGARET C. KLINE. 



190 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



DRINKS 

" Drink, pretty creature, drink. 



-Wordsworth. 



Fruit Punch — One cup of water, 1 cup of sug-ar, boil for 
10 minutes, add 1 cup of strong tea, 2 cups of strawberry 
syrup, juice of 5 lemons, juice of 5 oranges, 2 cups of shredded 
pineapple. Let it stand >^ hour. Add ice water to make ly^ 
gallons ; add 1 cup of marischino cherries, 1 quart of apollinaris 
water and some grape juice. MARGARET HODGES. 

Fruit Punch No. 2 — One cup of orange juice, >^ cup of 
lemon juice, shredded pineapple ^ cup, 2 cups of sugar, 1 
quart of cold water. Boil water, sugar and pineapple 20 
minutes, add fruit juice, strain and dilute with water. Add 1 
bottle ginger ale. MRS. MARGARET HODGES. 

Fruit Punch (Delicious) — One dozen lemons, 1 can sliced 
pineapple, 5 pounds of sugar, ^ pound candied cherries, 2 
quarts of water, 1 dozen oranges, 1 cut grated pineapple. 
Strain the juice of the lemons and canned pineapple into a 
bowl, add juice of sliced pineapple, sugar and water. Peel 
the oranges and cut them into thin slices, add the sliced 
oranges, sliced pineapple and cherries to the prepared juice. 
Serve with ice. 

Claret Cup — In Europe a claret cup is a very favorite 
drink, both for summer and for small dances in winter, and is 
not difficult to prepare. One-half a bottle of claret, 2 ounces 
of sugar, 2 bottles ginger beer, 2 lemons, 4 sprigs of mint or • 
4 slices of cucumber. Put the claret into a pitcher, together 
with the strained juice of 1 lemon and the sugar and the other 
lemon cut in slices. Stir until the sugar is entirely dissolved, 
then pour in the ginger beer and stir again. Wash the mint 
and add before serving. If mint cannot be had the cucumber 
will do, but it is the mint that gives a specially delicious 
flavor. 



DRINKS 



Grape Juice — To 15 pounds of grapes add 1 quart of 
water, drain through bag; ^ pound of sugar to 3 pints of juice. 
Let it come to boiling point. Bottle while hot. 

MRS. WM. DECHANT. 

Perfect Lemonade — Six large lemons, 2 quarts of boiling 
water, 4 ounces of powdered sugar. Grate the rinds of the 
lemons and strain the juice. Put both in a large jar or pitcher, 
together with the sugar. Pour on the boiling water, stir for 
about 2 minutes, and then cover tightly. When cold, strain 
and put on ice to chill thoroughly before serving. Be sure 
the water is boiling, not merely hot. 

Lemon or Orangeade — Use 6 ripe, juicy oranges, or 
lemons, Yz pint of water, J^ pound sugar; 1 quart boiling 
water. Boil the sugar with y^ pint of water until the syrup 
is thick. Put the thinly cut lemons or oranges into a pitcher 
and pour the boiling syrup over. Cover until cold. Stir in 
the juice and the quart of boiling water. Cover tightly and 
leave again until cold, then strain and chill until used. 

A very refreshing drink that contains a good deal of 
nourishment is made from raisins and rice. It is excellent for 
children : Three-fourth pound of rice, 2 quarts of water, ^ 
pounds raisins. Cut the raisins up and put them in a sauce 
pan with both the rice and water. Stir occasionally, until 
the water boils, then draw to one side and keep simmering 
for Yi hour. Strain while hot and leave to get cold. Then 
set on ice until ready to serve. 



CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Spiced Fruits and Catsups 

" Variety is the spice of life." 

Spiced Damson Plums — Seven pounds of fruit and 5 
pounds of sugar, 1 pint of vinegar, 1 tablespoon of cloves, 1 of 
cinnamon, y^ tablespoon mace. Add more spices if you like. 
Tie them in small bags and boil with vinegar and sugar. 
Then pour this over the plums. Cover tight. When this 
cools, pour it off, boil and pour it over again. Do this every- 
day for 7 or 8 days. It does not hurt to stand. At the end 
of 8 days, give plums and syrup together a good heating and 
jar them. MRS. T. T. lAEGER. 

Brandy Peaches — One good pound of fruit, ^ pound of 
sugar, 1 small teacup of brandy. Take the sugar put in 
saucepan with a little water and let it come to a boil. Then 
put the peaches in and do until soft enough. Remove the 
peaches and allow the syrup to boil until thick, pour brandy 
into the syrup and allow it to boil up once. After packing 
the peaches in jars pour over the syrup. Use good brandy. 

ANNIE I. SNYDER. 

Catsup — One peck of tomatoes, 3 green peppers, a few 
onions, boil and strain through a sieve, a teaspoonful of cloves 
and allspice. When nearly done or rather thick, put in 1 pint 
of vinegar and 1 cup of sugar, black pepper and a little 
cayenne. KATE STEVENS. 

Tomato Catsup — Wash tomatoes, peel and cut (not in 
very small pieces). Then cook until quite soft and strain 
through fine seive. Measure the juice. Then cook that until 
it begins to thicken, 1 pint of vinegar to a gallon of the juice 
before it is cooked. Any spices may be added \yhich you 
prefer, salt, pepper, ground cloves, mace and allspice— equal 
quantities. Only a small quantity of cayenne, an onion cut 
fine. Keep the vinegar and spices out until an hour before 
the catsup is done. MRS. OSCAR STAEGER. 



SPICED FRUITS AND CATSUPS 193 

Spiced Cherries — Seven pounds of cherries, 4 pounds of 
sugar, 1 pint of vinegar, 1 tablespoon of whole mace and 1 
of cinnamon. Boil all together until it is quite thick. 

MRS. WM. STRICKLAND, SR. 

Vinegar Peaches — Three pounds of sugar, 1 pint of 
vinegar, 8 quarts of peaches. Pare peaches and put in water 
to keep from coloring. Put on the stove and do until soft in 
water. Take sugar and vinegar and allow it to boil. After 
putting peaches in jars, pour syrup over them. 

HATTIE McCAULEY. 

Sweet Pickles — One and one-half dozen pared cucumbers, 
cut in small pieces, ^ peck of white onions cut fine, put on 
Yz pint of salt, let it stand over night in press, then drain well. 
Add Yz peck of tomatoes cut fine, 1>4 pounds of brown sugar, 
34 ounce of celery seed, 1 quart or pint of good vinegar. Cook 
all together and seal. MAMIE lAEGER KENDIG. 

Brandied Peaches — Four pounds of fruit, 4 pounds sugar, 
1 pint of brandy. Make a syrup of sugar and enough water 
to dissolve it. Let this come to a boil; put in fruit and let 
iDoil 5 minutes. Then remove fruit and let syrup boil 15 
minutes or until it thickens. Add brandy and take at once 
from fire. Pour hot syrup over fruit and seal. If after the 
fruit is taken from the fire a reddish liquid comes from it, 
drain this off before adding the syrup. 

ANNIE K. EBUR. 



CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Invalid's Tray 

Remember the sick, and visit them. 

CEREALS 

Gruel — One cup liquid, 1 tablespoon flour or meal, 1-6- 
teaspoonful salt, 3 tablespoonfuls powdered crackers will be 
needed for 1 cup of liquid. 

Gluten Mush — Three cups boiling water, 1 cup of cold 
water, 1 teaspoonful salt, 2-3 cup gluten flour. Add the cold 
water gradually to the flour, then pour through a strainer into 
the boiling salted water ; cook 30 minutes, stirring frequently ; 
strain. 

Boiled Oats or Wheat — Three cups boiling water, 1 tea- 
spoonful salt, 1 cup of meal. Boil 10 minutes stirring con 
stantly and cook over boiling water at least 1^^ hours longer^ 
a better flavor is developed by longer cooking. 

Irish Oatmeal — Four cups boiling water, 1 teaspoonful 
salt, 1 cup meal. Boil 10 minutes, stirring constantly, and 
then 8 hours over boiling water. 

Corn Meal Mush — Four cups boiling water, 1 teaspoonful 
salt, 1 cup corn meal. Boil 10 minutes, stirring constantly, 
and 3 hours or longer over boiling water. 

Steamed Rice — Two cups of boiling water, 1 teaspoonful 
salt, 1 cup of rice. Rice must be carefully picked over and 
washed thoroughly. Put rice water and salt into a bowl, 
place it in a steamer over rapidly boiling water. Cook until 
the rice is soft from ^ to 1 hour. 

Coffee Jelly — One-fourth package gelatine, % cup cold 
water, 2J^ cups coffee, ^ cup sugar. Soak the gelatine in 
the cold water, add the boiling coffee and sugar; strain. 



INVALID'S TRAY 195 



Lemon Jelly — One-fourth package gelatine, 2 cups boiling 
water, ^ cup cold water, 2 cups boiling water, 1 cup sugar, 
Yi cup lemon juice. Soak the gelatine in the cold water, add 
the boiling water, sugar, and juice; strain. 

Wine Jelly — One-fourth package gelatine, ^ cup cold 
water, 1^^ cups boiling water, 1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls 
lemon juice, ^ cup wine. Prepare as the other jellies; when 
slightly cool add the wine. Strain ^ box of Nelson's gela- 
tine, equals 1 box of Cox's gelatine, 1 tablespoon granulated 
Gelatine, ^ box of Nelson's gelatine. The gelatine used in 
these recipes is Nelson's. 

Milk Wine Whey — One cup milk, ^ cup sherry wine, 2 
teaspoons of sugar. Pour the wine into the hot milk and cook 
about 5 minutes or until the curd separates from the whey. 
Strain and sweeten. Serve hot or cold. 

Kumiss — One quart skim milk, 1-5 cake of yeast, 2 table- 
spoons sugar. Heat the milk. Dissolve the yeast in a little 
water and mix it with the sugar and luke warm milk. Put 
the mixture into strong bottles, cork them tightly and tie 
down the corks with stout twine. Shake the bottles thor- 
oughly, and place in the refrigerator to allow the mixture to 
ferment slowly. After three days lay the bottles on their 
sides ; turn them occasionally. Five days are required to per- 
fect the fermentation. Then the kumiss is at its best. 

Preparation of Lime Water — Put a piece of unslaked 
lime the size of a walnut, into an earthen vessel. Cover it 
with 2 quarts of water, stirring it thoroughly ; allow it to 
settle, then pour off the water; add 2 quarts filtered water,, 
stir and when it settles pour the clear solution into a bottle. 
More water may be added. 

Clam and Oyster Juice — Cut the clams or oysters into 
several pieces, and heat a few minutes in their own juice. 
Strain through muslin. Serve while hot. Great care must 
be taken in straining that sand does not pass through the 
muslin. These juices should be diluted and they can be 
frozen. 



196 CLU B HOUSE COOK ROOK 

Beef Broth — One pound lean beef, 1 pint cold water. 
Chop the meat very fine and soak it in the cold water 1 hour 
or longer. Put it into a saucepan surrounded by luke warm 
water, and cook until it has become a reddish brown, stirring 
all the time. Remove from fire, strain, and season. 

Beef Juice — Take a slice of the round of beef and heat it a 
few seconds over a clear fire to start the juices. Cut the meat 
into small pieces and press out the juice, using a lemon 
squeezer or meat press. Season with salt, and serve in a 
colored wine glass. 

Clam Broth — Six large clams (in shell), 1 cup of water. 
Wash the clams thoroughly with a brush and place them, with 
the water, in a kettle over the fire. As soon as the shells open 
the broth is done. Strain through muslin and serve. 

Squab in Paper — Singe, remove the pin feathers, head, 
feet, tips of wings and crop, split through the back ; clean and 
wipe inside and out with a damp cloth. Fold in a buttered 
paper, place in a pan and bake in a hot oven from 25 to 40 
minutes. It should be turned frequently while cooking. It 
may be broiled over the coals in 15 minutes. A chop may be 
folded in buttered paper and broiled 10 minutes. 

Raw Sandwiches — Scrape the beef very fine. Season with 
salt and pepper if allowed. Spread this mixture on slices 
of bread. Put the slices together and cut into small squares ; 
these may be toasted. The meat may be chopped very fine, 
seasoned, made into small cakes and broiled. 

Broiled Oysters in the Shell — Scrub the shells. Place on 
a broiler and cook over the coals. When they are open, re- 
move the upper shell, season with salt and lemon juice then 
serve on the shells. The round side of the shell should be 
next the fire, to hold the juice. 

Sweetbreads — Put in cold water 10 minutes. Parboil 
15 minutes in boiling salted water, then plunged in cold water. 
The sweetbreads may be served with a cream or white sauce 
or broiled. 



FIRST AID FROM THE COOK BOOK 



First Aid from the Cook Book 



Will the old-fashioned cook book pass out completely? 
They are making them card-index fashion now, and the old 
pantry-drawer full of a tattered heap of these cyclopedias of 
good eating is giving way to a ready-reference file, tucked 
away in a corner of the Hoosier cabinet. We shall miss the 
spattered, dog-eared pages, held together precariously by a 
binding that has felt too often the cook's heavy and impatient 
hand. It is comforting, therefore, to learn of a new use for 
cook books that has recently been discovered. No card-index, 
however efficient, will ever take their place here. The Indian- 
apolis Star is our informant : 



A story is told in an exchange of a man who had passed 
the crisis of a long illness, but could not be aroused to take an 
interest in life. Even the welfare of his family did not appeal 
to him as an incentive to make the effort for recovery. He 
lay passively on his pillow day after day indifferent to all the 
world's concerns and in danger of drifting back over the 
border, when some inspired person put a cook book into his 
hands. 



He flipped its pages carelessly and with an expression of 
distaste; then his eye caught something familiar; he looked 
again, asked to be raised on his pillow, and was presently 
absorbed in the perusal of the manual. Next he began to 
select dishes described therein that he wished to have prepared 
for him as soon as he should be able to eat them, and from that 
hour he began to improve. Life seemed worth living again. 
In short, the dreams of stuffed tenderloin, boiled onions, hot 
waffles with sirup, hot doughnuts, and the like gave him the 
needed incentive. 



198 CLUB HOUSE COOK BOOK 

This is an interesting demonstration of the charms of the 
cook book and may have the eflfect of giving it a new value in 
the library. Nor need its use be confined to sick people. 
When love-stories and detective mysteries pall on rainy even- 
ings, when " solid " reading does not invite and poetry is a 
drug, the book of cookery-recipes may have its place. Visions 
of the delicious cakes that mother used to make will come 
again and menus to be ordered in the future will bring peace- 
ful thoughts. The cook book has unguessed possibilities of 
entertainment and should take its place in the same class 
with the seedsman's gorgeous catalogue. 



A WORD ABOUT WASHING DISHRS 199 



A Word About Washing Dishes 



If you have gone into some kitchens as I have, and seen 
how some cooks w^ash dishes, you would understand and 
know, it is not amiss in our Cook Book, this word about 
washing dishes. 

Begin by sorting out all the dirty things. Empty the 
•dregs from the cups and saucers ; put the cups in one place 
and the saucers in a pile by themselves. Put all the silver in 
one heap and the knives in another, scrape all bits from the 
plates — if they are greasy, wipe them with bits of crumpled 
paper. When doing dinner things stack the plates (having 
removed all pieces and grease) in piles according to size. 
Don't mix meat and pudding and bread plates together. 

Empty all vegetable tureens and sauce boats, keep odd 
saucers and plates to put the left overs on. Remains of 
puddings, pies and so on should be taken out of the dish. 
Use hot water. Half a bowl of really hot water will be more 
effective than two bowlfuls of luke warm. 



WHY WE NEED COOK BOOKS 

" My husband mentioned creamed oysters," said the bride. 
■" I wonder how they are prepared." 

" Sort of a sundae eflfect, I imagine," ventured her girl 
friend. " Creamed oysters are served with ice-cream, no 
doubt." 



RECIPES FROM MY FRIENDS 



3/"/ 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 06561 083 2 












!3iiii'i%i?3s!:i:iE:iiiiii;:ii III iiii^ 



ss:;i5;::iBs?G§8iiiiiiiiiliiiiiii 

ifisiilliSiiilliililte^^ 







