•-• r^tiTi-;^:. -;.., 



i;^.^u*^*u^ 



FOODS AND 
COOKERY 



MATTESGN and NEWL 



^M 



j 

: 

J 

i 
J 

: 




Class / Abho 

Book ///^ . 

GopyrightN" 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 



A LABORATORY MANUAL OF 
FOODS AND COOKERY 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

NEW YORK • BOSTON • CHICAGO • DALLAS 
ATLANTA • SAN FRANCISCO 

MACMILLAN & CO., Limited 

LONDON • BOMBAY • CALCUTTA 
MELBOURNE 

THE MACMILLAN CO. OF CANADA, Ltd. 

TORONTO 



A LABORATORY MANUAL OF 
FOODS AND COOKERY 



BY 



EMMA B. MATTESON 

It 

INSTRUCTOR IN HOME ECONOMICS, GEORGE PEABODY 
COLLEGE FOR TEACHERS 

AND 

ETHEL M. NEWLANDS 

DIRECTOR OF HOME ECONOMICS, THE BUFFALO 
TECHNICAL HIGH SCHOOL 



Neiu gork 

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

1916 

All rights reserved 






Copyright, 1916, 
Bv THE MACMILLAN COMPANY. 



Set up and electrotyped. Published June, 1916. 




JUN 29 1916 



NorfajootJ iPress 

J. S. Gushing Co. — Berwick & Smith Co. 

Norwood, Mass., U.S.A. 



5)CI.A4;)1G'J9 



PREFACE 

Teaching experience has shown the need of a textbook ap- 
proaching the study of foods and cookery through experimental 
work in chemistry, bacteriology, and biology. In this book, 
therefore, under each topic a considerable number of experi- 
ments will be found. The performance of these experiments 
and the answering of the questions which arise from them will 
give the student a firsthand acquaintance with the leading char- 
acteristics of each kind of food, will furnish a basis for the 
discussion of the procedures used in cookery, and should give 
her such a grasp of the principles involved as will enable her to 
work without recipes, or to develop her own. The attainment 
of such mastery on the part of the student is, however, greatly 
facilitated by practice with a considerable number of recipes 
which have already been thoroughly tested, just as in other ex- 
perimental sciences, the student is taught in part through prac- 
tice with explicit and workable laboratory directions. Hence, 
in addition to the experiments, the present work will be found 
to contain thoroughly tested recipes in adequate number and 
variety to permit of choice. It has also seemed wise to include 
a considerable number of " score cards " to facilitate judgment 
of the finished product ; and of illustrative calculations of nutri- 
tive values of typical cooked foods. Each chapter has been 
made sufficiently complete in itself so that the topics may be 
taken up in any desired sequence and not necessarily in the 
order followed in the book. 

This Laboratory Manual was worked out through the corre- 
lated experience of the authors at Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, and 
Simmons College, Boston, and is amplified by their individual 



vi PREFACE 

experiences in the Public Schools of New York City and New 
Haven ; the State Normal School at Winona, Minnesota ; The 
School of Education of The University of Chicago ; and The 
Diet School of Johns Hopkins Hospital. 

The authors desire to acknowledge the help given by Pro- 
fessor Ada Field of George Peabody College for Teachers, in 
the revision of the manuscript, and to express their appreciation 
of the encouragement received from Dr. Henry Clapp Sherman, 
of Columbia University. 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER I 

Beverages 
Food value of beverages. The methods of serving beverages. 



PAGE 



Fruit acids. The stimulants of beverages. Experiments with tea, 
coffee, chocolate, and cocoa. Recipes for preparation of stimulating 
and nutritive beverages. Recipes for cereal waters. References . 1 

CHAPTER n 

Fruits 

Classification. Composition and nutritive value. General rules 
for preparation. Reasons for cooking fruit. How to purchase fruit. 
Experiments with fruits. Recipes for preparation of fresh and dried 
fruits. Food value of apple sauce and stewed prunes. References . 11 

CHAPTER III 

Canning and Preserving 

Methods of preservation of fruits and vegetables. Experiments 
with fruits and vegetables. General rules for canning and preserv- 
ing. General directions for canning and preserving. Recipes. 
Score card for canned fruits, preserves. References ... 22 

CHAPTER IV 

Cereals 

Composition and nutritive value. How to purchase cereals. 
Reasons for cooking cereals. Methods of cooking. Methods of 
serving, variations in serving, differences in consistency. Table of 
time and amounts of water per unit of cereal. General rules for 
cooking of cereals. Experiments. Recipes for cereals, cereals with 
fruits, farinaceous desserts, gruels. References .... 47 

vii 



58 



82 



viii CONTENTS 

CHAPTER V 

Vegetables and Vegetable Soups 

Composition and nutritive value. Classification. Points to em- 
phasize. Reasons for cooking vegetables. Ways of serving vege- 
tables. General principles. Experiments. Recipes for vegetables. 
White sauce, creamed vegetables, scalloped vegetables. Recipes for 
scalloped dishes, cream soups, and purees. Food values of baked 
beans, creamed potato, cream of pea soup, cream of tomato soup, 
cream of potato soup, cream of lentil soup, split pea soup. Refer- 
ences 

CHAPTER VI 

Milk, Cream, and Butter 
Composition and nutritive value. Experiments with cream, butter, 
buttermilk ; sweet milk, sour milk ; cheese ; absorption of odors. 
Recipes for junkets, custards, puddings. Food value of baked cus- 
tard, rice pudding with eggs. References 

CHAPTER VII 

Cheese 

Composition and nutritive value. Recipes for cheese. (Experi- 
ments, see Chapter VI.) Food value of macaroni and cheese, rice 
with cheese and tomatoes. References 95 

CHAPTER VIII 

Eggs, SoufQ6s, and Croquettes 

Composition and nutritive value. Experiments. Recipes for eggs. 
Food value of scrambled eggs. Recipes for souffles. Experiments 
with fats for frying. Recipes for croquettes. Score card for cro- 
quettes. References 107 

CHAPTER IX 

Meats, Stock Soups, and Gelatin 
Quality of good meat. Composition and nutritive value. Pre- 
served meat. Meat experiments. Cuts of beef, veal, lamb and mut- 



CONTENTS IX 

PAGE 

ton, pork. Soups. Recipes for stock soups ; recipes for meats ; 
meat sauces. Score card for roast of meat. Gelatin. Composition 
and nutritive value. Experiments with gelatin. Gelatin desserts. 
Food value of snow pudding. Score card for gelatin desserts. 
References 123 

CHAPTER X 

Poultry 

Quality. Composition and digestibility. Dressing and cleaning 
poultry. Trussing poultry. Directions for boning poultry or birds. 
Recipes for poultry : sauces 153 

CHAPTER XI 

Fish and Shellfish 

Classes of fish. Freshness of fish. Composition and nutritive 
value. Preserved fish. Vegetables suitable for serving with fish as 
a garnish. Sauces for fish. Fish in combination with other food. 
Cleaning fish. Boning fish. Methods of cooking. Aim in cooking 
fish. Recipes for fish. Fish sauces. Food value of creamed cod- 
fish on toast. Shellfish : oysters, clams, scallops, lobsters, crabs. 
Recipes. References 158 

CHAPTER XII 

Flour Mixtures 

Composition and nutritive value. Experiments with flour, bread, 
muffins, baking powder biscuits, pastry, cake. Experiments with 
leavens : sodium bicarbonate, yeasts. Classification of flour mix- 
tures. References 172 

CHAPTER XIII 

Batters and Doughs 

Recipes : bread, light, quick ; rolls, sticks, buns. Score cards for 
bread, raised biscuits ; recipes for baking powder biscuits, variations 
in baking powder biscuits. Food value of baking powder biscuits. 
Score card for baking powder biscuits. Recipes for griddlecakes 
and waffles ; timbale cases ; fritters ; doughnuts ; muffins. Food 



X CONTENTS 

PAGE 

value of plain muffins. Score card for muffins. Recipes for pop- 
overs, cream puffs, flour pastes. Classification of cookieS. Recipes 
for cookies. Food value of molasses cookies, hermits. Score card 
for rolled cookies, dropped cookies ....... 189 



CHAPTER XIV 

Cake 

General rules for mixing. General rules for baking. Recipes for 
butter cakes, molasses cakes, sponge cakes, angel food cakes. Food 
values of hot water gingerbread, chocolate cake, hot water sponge 
cake. Score cards for loaf cake, layer cake, sponge cake. Recipes 
for cooked frostings ; uncooked frostings ; cake fillings . . . 218 



CHAPTER XV 

Pastry 

Recipes for plain paste ; puff paste ; cheese straws ; fillings for 
pies. Score cards for two-crust pie, one-crust pie, one-crust pie and 
meringue ............ 235 

CHAPTER XVI 

Flour Mixtures using Sour Milk, Buttermilk, Sour Cream 

Recipes for breads, puddings, cakes, cookies, gingerbread, dough- 
nuts .243 

CHAPTER XVII 

Salads and Sandwiches 

Classification of salad greens, salad foundations, variations in salad 
dressings. Service of salads. To prepare salad greens. Combina- 
tions for salads. Food values of vegetable salad, romaine or lettuce 
salad. General rules for sandwiches. Classification of conveyors for 
filling ; classification of fillings. Food value of whole wheat bread 
and cheese sandwiches 248 



CONTENTS XI 

CHAPTER XVIIl 
Salad Dressings 

PAGE 

Experiments. Recipes for French dressing and variations; cream 
dressing ; boiled dressing ; mayonnaise dressing. Food values of 
mayonnaise dressing, French dressing, boiled dressing. References 260 

CHAPTER XIX 
Desserts 

Recipes for steamed puddings, pudding sauces. Experiments with 
frozen desserts. Classification of frozen desserts. Recipes for frozen 
desserts ; ice creams, ices, sherbets, frappes, mousses. Food values 
of vanilla ice cream, milk sherbet. Score card for sherbets and ices ; 
Philadelphia ice cream ; custard ice cream. References for ice cream 266 

CHAPTER XX 

Sugar and Candy 

Composition and nutritive value of sugar. Experiments with sugar. 
General directions for fondant. Directions for using fondant. Reci- 
pes for candy, candied orange peel, salted almonds. References for 
sugar . . 284 

CHAPTER XXI 

Recipes for Fifty Servings 

Recipes for beverages, fruits, cereals, vegetables, cream soups, 
stock soups, meats, meat substitutes, fish, flour mixtures, salads, des- 
serts, frozen desserts 295 



LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS 
AND COOKERY 



CHAPTER I 
BEVERAGES 

Beverages are mixtures of liquids and flavoring material and 
may be classified as acid, albuminous, starchy, and stimulating. 
Acid beverages are lemonade, orangeade, grapejuice, and fruit 
punch. Albuminous beverages are liquids to which is added 
egg albumin, egg yolk, or milk. Starchy beverages are cereals 
cooked in a large quantity of water, as a gruel strained and 
cooked. Stimulating beverages are tea, coffee, cocoa, cocoa 
shells, and chocolate. 

Food value of beverages. Acid beverages are valuable be- 
cause of organic acids and mineral matter {" ash constituents ") 
present. Also because of sugar which is naturally contained 
as well as that usually added, the stimulation of peristaltic 
action, the diuretic action, and lastly the appetizing odor and 
taste. 

Albuminous and starchy beverages are valuable because of 
their increased nutritive value, and because they may be easily 
taken. Such beverages are primarily designed for invalids, and 
a considerable amount of nutriment can be taken in this form 
in the course of a day, especially as milk can be added and the 
nutritive value of a starchy drink thus greatly increased. 



2 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Stimulating beverages are valuable because of the food value 
of cream or milk and sugar usually served with them. Also 
because various food products, as bread, rolls, toast, cookies, 
crullers, cake, often accompany the beverage. 

The stimulant of tea, coffee, or chocolate when taken in strict 
moderation is usually not harmful to adults, but is often re- 
freshing and not followed by the depression which follows the 
stimulating effect of alcohol. 

For description of beverages and standards of purity see 
Sherman's Food Products, pages 436-438 and 465-469. 

Methods of serving beverages. Beverages to be served cold 
should be cooled in the refrigerator or ice cream freezer but 
should not have ice put in them. 

Beverages to be served hot should be served fresh from the 
fire and should not be reheated. Where boiling water is to be 
used, it should be fresh water boiled and not reboiled water. 
Tea and coffee should be made in a receptacle which can be 
tightly covered, as it is the aroma which we wish to preserve. 

Fruit beverages may be served with the grated rind of fruit, 
slices of fruit, small fruits as strawberries and cherries, whole 
cloves, apollinaris water, or vichy water. 

Stimulating beverages may be served hot, cold, or partly 
frozen. 

Tea may be served with milk, sugar, slices of lemon or orange, 
whole cloves or lime drops. 

Coffee may be served with hot milk, cream, sugar. 

Chocolate may be served with milk, cream (whipped or un- 
whipped), sweetened chocolate grated and sprinkled on top of 
cream, marshmallow, stick cinnamon. 

Fruit acids. The characteristic acids of fruits are as follows : 
lemons and oranges, citric acid; apples, malic acid; grapes, 
potassium acid tartrate. 

The characteristic alkaloids found in stimulating beverages 
are for tea, theine ; coffee, caffeine ; chocolate, theobromine. 



BEVER.\GES 3 

The theine of tea has been found identical with the cafleine 
of coffee. Tannin of tea influences its taste. (See experiments 
with tea.) Caffetannic acid influences the flavor of coffee. 
The flavor of both tea and coffee is doubtless also influenced 
by the volatile oils which they both contain but which are 
largely lost on long boiling. 

Of tea, coffee, and chocolate, the latter has much the highest 
food value. 

EXPERIMENTS 

Tea 

1. — Prepare four cups of lea, A, B, C, D, in the following manner 
(use black lea) : 

A. 1 level tsp. lea, i c. boiling water (note the temperature 
at which the water boils). Pour the boiling water through the tea 
leaves, but do not allow the leaves to remain in the cup. 

B. I level tsp. tea, i c. boiling water. Pour the boiling 
water over the tea leaves and allow it to stand over the leaves 5 
minutes. Decant off the infusion. 

C. Repeat B, but do not decant the infusion. Mow it to 
cool and then reheat it. 

D. I level tsp. tea, i c. boiling water. Pour the boiling 
water over the leaves and continue the boiling for 5 minutes. 

Note the color, odor, and taste of each cup of tea. 

2. — a. Test 2 tbsp. of each cup of tea with 5 drops of lead acetate 
solution.* 

b. WTiat change occurs? 

c. To what is this change due? 

d. Which method of making tea brings the most tannin into 

the infusion? 

» Lead acetaU solution. Dissolve 18 gm. of lead acetate in 70 ccm. of hot dis- 
tilled water ; to this add 1 1 gm. of lead oxide. Boil the mixture for 30 minutes with 
occasional stirring, allow it to settle for a few minutes, and decant the clear liquid. 
,\dd enough distilled water to make the volume up to 81 ccm. For ordinary use 
take I part of this s<:)lution to 4 parts distilled water. This solution is used as 
a precipitant in testing infusions and fruit juices. 



4 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

3. — Compare characteristics of black and green tea by preparing 
by the best method a cup of tea made from black tea and one made 
from green tea. Use for each cup — 

I tsp. tea I c. boiling water 

4. — Compare various kinds of black tea by preparing a cup of 
tea from each of the following : 

^' English Breakfast " * Orange Pekoe 

Flowery Pekoe Oolong 

Coffee 
Have ready the following : 

A. Coffee pot. 

B. Coffee pot and aluminum cup with perforated sides. 

C. Coffee pot and cloth bag. 

D. Percolator. 

f powdered 

E. Coffee <^ pulverized 

[ finely ground 

5.^ — a. Use : coffee pots A, B, C, and percolator D. 

powdered 
2 tbsp. coffee pulverized 

[ finely ground 

Use first the finely ground coffee, add i cup of cold water, 
place in the coffee pots and in the percolator, heat until the boiling 
point is reached. Boil 2 minutes, allow the beverage to stand with- 
out cooking 5 minutes. 

b. Note the color, clearness, odor, flavor. 

6. — a. Repeat 5 a, using pulverized and powdered coffee in turn. 

b. Compare the results as to efficiency. 

c. Compare the results as to color, clearness, odor, flavor, 
oiliness. 

1 For convenience of reference eJcperiments are numbered consecutively thro\igh- 
out the book. 



BEVERAGES 5 

7. — Repeat the above experiments, boiling the coffee in each 
instance 4 minutes, 6 minutes, 10 minutes in turn. 

8. — a. Prepare coffee by the methods used in 7 (boiling 4, 6, 10 
minutes), but before putting the coffee into the utensil add i tbsp. 
egg white. Note : Part of the class use ^ egg shell. 

b. Note the color, clearness, odor, flavor, oiliness. 

c. Does the egg white or shell produce any improvement? 
Explain. 

d. By what other method may coffee be cleared ? 

9. — a. Prepare coffee in the utensils used in the previous ex- 
periments. Try each of the coffees in succession. Use 2 tbsp. coffee 
and pour upon it i cup of vigorously boiling water. Do not allow 
beverage to boil, but simmer for i minute. 

b. Compare the results in each case as before. 

10. — Prepare coffee as in 5 a using i c. boiling water instead of 
cold water. Allow the coffee to boil 4, 6, 10 minutes and compare 
with that made by other methods. 

Which method and which utensils produce the most accept- 
able beverage ? 

Is it possible to produce good results by more than one method ? 

For each utensil which method is best and to what stage should 
the coffee be ground ? 

11. — a. Test 2 tbsp. of coffee infusion made by each method 
with 5 drops of lead acetate. See page 3. 

b. Is the presence of tannic acid shown? 

c. By which method of making coffee is the most produced ? 

Cocoa and Chocolate 

Prepare a paste of 2 tsp. cocoa and 2 tbsp. hot water. Use this 
to correspond with | sq. chocolate. 

Perform each experiment first with cocoa, then with chocolate. 

12. — a. Prepare cocoa and chocolate using : 

2 tsp. cocoa paste f | c. water 

I c. cold liquid < 
I sq. chocolate [ ^ c. milk 



6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

b. Pour the cold liquid on to the paste or chocolate. Cook 
in the double boiler 5 minutes after the liquid is hot. 

c. Compare each as to flavor, sweetness, color. 

d. What is the result when cold liquid is added to the paste 
or chocolate ? 

c. Is this a desirable method of preparing cocoa or chocolate ? 

13. — Prepare cocoa and chocolate using the paste and I sq. 
chocolate by heating the liquid first. Cook in the double boiler 5, 
10, 15 minutes, testing flavor and consistency at each stage. 

14. — Prepare a paste of the chocolate by melting it over hot 
water and adding 2 tsp. hot water to | sq. chocolate. 

a. Use the cocoa and chocolate paste and prepare bever- 
ages using I c. hot milk for each. Pour the hot liquid slowly on to 
the paste, mixing it in thoroughly each time until a smooth, brown 
mixture results. Cook this in a double boiler 15 to 20 minutes. 
Note the flavor and consistency as compared with previous methods. 

b. To this last beverage add 2 drops vanilla and a grain or 
two of salt. Is the flavor improved? Why? 

c. Beat the beverage with a Dover egg beater. Result ? 
How do you explain the frothy consistency which results? 
What differences are noted between cocoa and chocolate as bever- 
ages? How are these accounted for? 

Hot Tea 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. tea 4 c. boiling water 

Method : 

Follow the method which was found most desirable in the experi- 
ments. 



Cold Tea I 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. tea 2 qt. cold water 

Method : 

Put tea in a pitcher or glass jar, turn in the cold water and allow it 
to stand overnight in the refrigerator. Decant the liquid from the 
leaves and serve ice cold. 



BEVERAGES 7 

Cold Tea II 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. tea 4 c. boiling water 

4 c. cold water 
Method : 

Prepare tea and boiling water as for hot tea. Dilute the infusion 
with the 4 cups of cold water. Decant from the tea leaves, allow 
the liquid to cool, and serve ice cold. 

Note : a. Cold tea is more appetizing if it is served about one half as 
strong as hot tea. 

b. In preparing hot tea use only water which is fresh and just 

beginning to boil. 

c. Do not use a tin teapot ; use a tea ball, crockery or china teapot. 

d. Do not use tea leaves a second time. 

e. Never allow tea to boil. 

/. Do not allow tea to stand over the tea leaves after steeping has 
been accomplished. If tea has to be kept hot for a time, 
turn the infusion from the leaves. 



Black Coffee 

Ingredients : 

I c. coffee ^ egg 

I c. cold water 5 c. boiling water 

^ c. cold water 
Method : 

Mix coffee, | c. cold water, and egg together, let stand ten minutes 
in coffee pot. Pour in boiling water and boil gently for five minutes. 
Remove to warm part of stove, add ^ c. cold water, pouring some of 
it down the spout of coffee pot. Serve at once. 



Cocoa 

Ingredients : 

I c. cocoa I c. water or coffee (hot) 

I c. sugar 3 c. milk (hot) 

Method : 

Mix cocoa and sugar together in a saucepan, pour over the hot 
water or coffee and let boil until a syrup is formed (this cooks the 



8 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

starch in the cocoa). Add the hot milk, stirring it in slowly, return 
to a double boiler and let cook 15 to 20 minutes. A few grains of 
salt and a drop of vanilla may be added just before serving. Serve 
with whipped cream or beat to a froth with a Dover beater. 

Chocolate 

Ingredients : 

4 c. milk, 2 oz. chocolate 

or 2 c. milk and | c. sugar 

2 c. water | c. water (hot) 

Method : 

Grate or cut the chocolate into small pieces, place in upper part 
of a double boiler, add the sugar and j c. of hot water. Allow the 
chocolate to melt and cook with the sugar until a smooth paste is 
formed. Add the milk or milk and water to this chocolate mixture, 
stirring it constantly with a wooden spoon and adding the liquid very 
slowly. When the liquid has been added, beat it vigorously with the 
Dover egg beater and then allow it to cook 15 to 20 minutes. 

Note : a. If flakes of chocolate appear, the liquid was added in too large 
quantities at a time. 

b. Always pour the liquid into the chocolate paste, otherwise the 

flakes will be sure to appear. 

c. The long cooking of both cocoa and chocolate is necessary because 

of the starch which is characteristic of both. 

d. The flavor of both chocolate and cocoa is improved by allowing it 

to stand 15 to 20 minutes in a warm place after cooking and 
before serving. 

Lemon Whey 

Ingredients : 

I c. hot milk 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

2 tbsp. sugar 
Method : 

Heat the milk in a double boiler. Add the lemon juice. Cook 
without stirring until the whey separates. Strain through cheese- 
cloth, and add the sugar. Serve hot or cold. Garnish with small 
pieces or slice of lemon. 



BEVER.\GES 9 

Lemonade 

Ingredients : 

1 lemon 2 tbsp. sugar 

I c. boiling water | ihin slice lemon 

Method : 

Wash and wipe lemon ; cut a very thin slice from middle ; use this 

for garnish. Squeeze juice into a bowl (keeping back the seeds), 

add the sugar and boiling water ; cover, and put on ice to keep cool. 

Strain and pour into a glass or sherbet cup. Cut half the slice of 

lemon into two pieces, and use as garnish in glass; a few berries or 

slice of orange may be used. 

Note : The quantity of sugar in lemonade may be varied, depending upon 
the acidity of the fruit. 

Grape Juice and Egg 

Ingredients : 

I egg I tbsp. sugar 

\ c. rich milk 4 c grape juice 

\ tsp. powdered sugar 
Method : 

Beat the yolk and white separately very light. To the yolk add 
milk, sugar, and grape juice, and pour into glass. To the white add 
a little powdered sugar and a tbsp. of grape juice. Serve on yolk 
mixture. Chill all ingredients before using. 

Oatmeal Water 

Ingredients : 

I tbsp. oatmeal salt 

I tbsp. cold water i qt. boiling water 

Method : 

Mix oatmeal and cold water, add salt, and stir into the boUing 

water. Boil three hours; replenish the water as it boils away. 

Strain through a fine sieve or cheesecloth. Season, serve cold. 

Different brands of oatmeal vary considerably in the amount of 

water which they take up in cooking, and sufficient should always 

be added to make this drink almost as thin as water. 



lO LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Barley Water 

Ingredients : 

1 1 tbsp. pearl barley i qt. cold water 

salt 
Method : 

Wash barley, add cold water and let soak several hours or over 
night. Drain and add the fresh, cold water, boil gently over direct 
heat two hours, or in a double boiler steadily four hours, down to 
one pint, adding water from time to time ; season with salt. Strain 
through muslin. 

Note : Cream or milk may be added, or lemon juice and sugar. Barley 
water is a slightly astringent or demulcent drink used to re- 
duce laxative condition. 

References 

Bailey. Source, Chemistry, and Use of Food. 

BoLAND. Handbook of Invahd Cookery. 

Friedenwald and Ruhrah. Diet in Health and Disease. 

Hausmann. Home Manufacture and Use of Unfermented Grape 

Juice. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' 

Bulletin No. 175 (1903). 
Kakuzo. The Book of Tea. 
Kellogg, Ella. Science in the Kitchen, Principles of Healthful 

Cookery. 
Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 
Lincoln and Barrows. Home Science Cook Book. 
Meunier, L. . Fruit Juices. Ontario Department of Agriculture, 

Fruit Branch Bulletin No. 200 (191 2). 
Pattee. Practical Dietetics with Special Reference to Diet in 

Disease. 
Practical Dietetics. Demonstration Iowa State College Agri- 
culture Extension Department. Short Course Class Notes, 

No. 8. 
Sachse. How to Cook for the Sick. 
Sherman. Food Products. 



CHAPTER II 
FRUITS 

Fruits are divided into five general classes — small fruits, 
orchard fruits, grapes, citrus fruits, and tropical fruits. 

These are available either in the fresh or dried state and all 
may be served raw or cooked. 

Fruits vary greatly in chemical composition. Their value 
in the diet is due chiefly to the ash constituents rather than to 
the protein, carbohydrate, or fat content. (See Sherman's 
Food Products, pages 335-338 for percentage composition and 
pages 347-349 for percentage of ash in the edible portion.) 

When their energy value (due chiefly to carbohydrates) and 
their relative richness in certain important ash constituents 
are considered, the staple fruits are found to be more econom- 
ical articles of food than is generally recognized. Except near 
the regions where grown, the dried fruits are usually more 
economical than the fresh. 

The dietetic value of fruits is greater than could be inferred 
from the percentage composition alone, because of their refresh- 
ing and other desirable qualities which cannot as yet be sub- 
jected to quantitative measurement. The agreeable '' ethe- 
real " and acid flavors of fruit are helpful to appetite and 
doubtless also to digestion. 

Fruit may be either a laxative or an astringent or both, as 
in the case of fruits which contain astringent substance in the 
skin, while the pulp is laxative. Fruit is also valuable for its 
antiscorbutic property and often seems to act as a mild and 

II 



12 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

beneficial diuretic. The cellulose is useful in giving bulk to the 
food residues and preventing their stagnation in the intestine. 

A given fruit often shows quite different properties at differ- 
ent stages in ripening, the most distinct changes in composi- 
tion being usually a decrease in acid and starch with an increase 
in sugar content. Pectin substances present in underripe fruits 
cause fruit juices to jelly. 

The desirability of increasing the use of fruit as food and the 
variety of attractive properties possessed by fruits and fruit 
products, lend special interest to the subject of fruit cookery. 

General rules for preparation : 

Small and soft fruits need careful handling when washed. Fill 
bowl with cold water, put fruit in and remove with strainer or per- 
forated spoon in order not to crush. 

Hard fruits, if small, may be washed in a colander under running 
water, or if large wiped with a damp cloth. 

Decayed spots, bruises, or worm holes should be removed, prefer- 
ably with a silver knife. 

Cover pared fruits with cold water until ready to cook. 

Oranges, lemons, and grapefruit should be scrubbed with a brush ; 
bananas peeled and scraped, raspberries and blackberries removed 
from baskets with a fork to avoid crushing. 

Dried fruits should be examined and washed in several waters. 

Reasons for cooking fruit: 

To soften cellulose. 

In some instances to insure digestibility. 

To further variety in serving. 

In some instances to destroy bacteria. 

How to purchase : 

Fruits are economical when purchased in season, and if storage fa- 
ciHties allow, should be bought in quantity. Freshness and cleanli- 
ness should receive first consideration. Dried fruits may take the 
place of fresh fruits when the latter are not in season. The cost of 
fruits varies with locaHty — study the market in your own section. 



FRUITS 13 

EXPERIMENTS 

Apple 

15.^ — Grate an apple into a bowl. With a wooden spoon 
thoroughly mash the solid matter with the juice. 
What change in color is observed? 

16. — Add about 2 tbsp. of water to the mixture obtained in Expt. 
15, and strain the liquid through wet cheesecloth into a bowl. Filter 
the juice through a wet fluted filter and keep it for Expt. 17 and 18 
below. To portions of the apple pulp apply : 

a. The Millon test ^ for protein. 
h. The iodine test for starch.^ 

17. — To small portions of the clear filtered apple juice obtained 
in Expt. 16, apply the following tests: 

a. Heat about 10 cc. to boiling in a test tube and notice 
whether coagulation takes place. Filter through a wet fluted paper 
and test the residue on the paper by adding a few drops of nitric 
acid. If protein is present, it will be turned yellow by the nitric acid. 

/;. Test for starch by adding iodine solution. (The portion 
of solution to which this test is applied must be cool.) 

c. Test for " reducing sugars " by mixing a small amount of 
the clear juice with an equal volume of the Fehling-Benedicf solution, 
allow to stand a minute and note any change of color, then boil for 
two minutes. (Reference should be made to Leach's Food Inspection 

^ For convenience the experiments are numbered consecutively throughout the 
book. 

2 Milton's reagent: One part, by weight, of mercury dissolved in two parts of 
strong nitric acid. Dilute the solution with twice its bulk of water. After standing 
24 hours, the supernatant liquid should be decanted from the precipitate. Proteins 
are colored red by this solution. Warming aids the development of the color. 

2 Starch, iodine reaction: To the material to be tested for starch add a few drops 
of iodine solution (iodine dissolved in a water solution of potassium iodide). A 
blue, violet, or purple color indicates the presence of starch. 

* Fehling-Benedict solution : 

34.65 gm. crystallized copper sulphate made up to 500 cc. with distilled water. 

173 gm. Rochelle salt \ a .. uu a- *-ii a 

, , ,. , > made up to 500 cc. with distilled water. 

100 gm. anhydrous sodium carbonate J 



14 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

and Analysis, Sherman's Organic Analysis, or Woodmann's Food 
Analysis?) 

d. Test for proteins by means of Millon's reagent, making 
the test as closely comparable with that of the pulp as possible. 

18. — Preparation of pectin.^ 

a. Neutralize the remaining apple juice with a sufficient 
quantity of caustic soda (sodium hydroxide) solution. 

h. Heat the neutral fluid to boiling to complete the coagu- 
lation of the protein. 

c. Filter on a wet fluted paper while the liquid is hot. 

d. To the cold filtrate in a beaker or glass add alcohol, little- 
by little, in sufficient quantity to produce a bulky, gelatinous precipi- 
tate of pectin. An equal volume of alcohol may be required. (Save 
this for Expt. 19.) 

19. — Properties of pectin. Continuing the work begun in Expt. 18 : 

a. Allow the alcohol to evaporate after decanting off as much 
as possible. 

h. Dissolve the pectin in water and concentrate by heating. 

c. Turn into beaker and let cool. The gelatinizing power 
of pectin will be shown. 

Note : Other fruits or vegetables may be used to further demonstrate the 
above principles. Compare the experiments on vegetables, 
jellies, and gelatin described in later chapters. 

20. — Decay of fruit (A). Place in a jar a number of apples that 
have been bruised or cut, packing them in rather tightly. Scatter 
in the jar some spores of the common mold which will usually 
be found on moldy lemon. Close the jar and set aside. Prepare 
a second jar with some whole clean apples and treat in the same 
way. Compare the two jars for a week or two to see if decay makes 
its appearance in either or both of the jars. Does bruising hasten 
the decay of the fruit ? 

^ Pectin, to which the essential gelatinous consistency of fruit jellies is due, is a 
substance belonging to the group of carbohydrates. It is entirely different from 
gelatin, which is a peculiar protein obtained from bone and other animal tissues and 
forms the basis of animal jellies. 



FRUITS 15 

21. — Decay of fruit (B). Make a cut through the skin of an 
apple with a knife blade that has been previously dipped into the 
midst of a mass of mold spores. Put the apple aside in a jar and 
examine carefully until it decays. Note that the decay begins rather 
quickly and starts at the point of the cut where the spores were 
inoculated. 

22. — Experiment. Apple Sauce 

I apple 2 tbsp. sugar 

5 tbsp. water \ tsp. nutmeg 

Prepare apple sauce by paring and slicing the apple and cooking 
it in the water until soft. Let half the class (</) add sugar at begin- 
ning of process ; the other half {h) add sugar at end of process. 

Use the thermometer constantly and compare the temperatures 
throughout the making of the apple sauce. 

Account for differences in color, taste, and consistency. 

23. Experiment. Baked Apple 

Prepare baked apples in the following ways : in each case core and 
fill cavity with sugar. 

a. Wash and remove skin from apple. Bake in slow oven. 
(Temperature ?) 

h. Repeat with a second apple but bake in a hot oven. 
(Temperature ?) 

c. Wash and core third and fourth apples. Do not remove 
skin. Bake one in slow, and one in hot oven. 

d. Wash and core fifth and sixth apples. Make a slit around 
each apple, through the skin. Bake one in a hot oven, one in slow. 

Which method and temperature produces best result ? 



l6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Baked Apples 

Ingredients : 

8 apples \ c. sugar 

\ tsp. cinnamon 
Method : 

Select apples of uniform size. Wipe and core apples. Make an 
incision in the skin to allow steam to escape, place in baking dish, 
and fill cavities with sugar and spice. Surround apples with boiling 
water and bake in a hot oven until soft, basting frequently. 

Variations 

The apples may be pared before coring. The cores may be filled 
with: 

brown sugar sugar and lemon juice 

raisins and nuts sugar and orange juice 

cooked prunes and nuts cooked oatmeal and raisins 

jelly uncooked custard 

Steamed Apples 

Wipe, pare, and core apples. Place in double boiler, cover and 
steam until apples are soft. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Apples-in-Bloom 

Wipe and core red apples. Steam until tender and remove skins. 
The apples should be pink when steamed. 

Apple Sauce 

Ingredients : 

8 apples water 

I c. sugar nutmeg 

Method : 

Wipe, pare, and slice apples. Cook in a small amount of water 
until soft, add sugar and cook until sugar dissolves. Strain. Grate 
nutmeg over the sauce. 



FRUITS 



17 



Stewed Apples 
•Ingredients: 

8 apples I c. water 

I c. sugar 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

Method : 

Wipe and pare apples. Core and cut in halves, quarters, eighths, 
or circles, or cut in balls with vegetable cutter. Place in cold water 
while preparing a sirup of the sugar and water by boiling 3 minutes. 
Cook apples, a few at a time, in the sirup until soft. Remove all 
sirup, add lemon juice, and boil until thick. Strain the thick sirup 
and pour it upon the apples. 

Baked Bananas 

Peel bananas, scrape with silver knife, and cut in halves length- 
wise. Place on buttered pan, sprinkle with sugar and lemon juice, 
and bake in a slow oven until soft, basting often with the sirup. 

Bananas may also be baked in the skins. 



Baked Crabapples 

Crabapples should be left whole. If cooked slowly enough the 
liquid in the pan will form a red jelly. This should be served with 
the crabapples. 

Baked Quinces 



Ingredients : 



8 quinces 



i c. sugar 



i| c. water 

Method : 

Wipe, quarter, core and pare quinces. Put in a baking dish, 
sprinkle with sugar, add the water, cover and cook until soft in a slow 
oven. 



Ingredients : 



8 pears 



Baked Pears 



I c. water 



I c. sugar 



Method : 

Same as for quinces. Small pears may be baked whole. 



1 8 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Cranberry Sauce 

Ingredtents : 

I qt. cranberries 2 c. sugar 

2 c. water 
Method : 

Remove bruised berries, wash others in a strainer, and cook them in 
water until they begin to burst. Add sugar and cook until thoroughly 
soft. Skim. 

Cranberry Jelly 

Ingredtents : 

I qt. cranberries 2 c. sugar 

I c. water 
Method : 

Cook cranberries in water until soft and press through a strainer. 
Add sugar to the pulp. Stir until sugar dissolves, then boil until it 
will jelly when dropped on a cold plate. Pour into molds previously 
wet with cold water. 

Spiced Cranberry Jelly 

Ingredients : 

I qt. cranberries 12 cloves 

1 c. water 3 allspice berries 

2 c. sugar small piece cinnamon 

I tsp. salt 
Method : 

Tie spices in cheesecloth. Cook with berries and water until 
berries are soft. Strain, and proceed as for cranberry jelly. 

Dried Fruit 

General Rules. 

1. Wash quickly in several waters. 

2. Soak in cold water overnight. 

a. Shortens time of cooking. 

b. Develops better flavor. 

c. Lessens amount of sugar required. 

3. Cook in this water until tender, using flame or the fireless 
cooker. 

4. Add sugar to softened fruit and cook a few minutes longer. 



FRUITS 19 

Prunes 

Ingredients : 

I lb. prunes i qt. water 

I tbsp. lemon juice i tbsp. orange juice 

I c. sugar 



Ingredients : 

I lb. apricots i qt. water 



Apricots 
I c. sugar 



NUTRITIVE VALUES OF COOKED FOODS 

Because of variable changes in water content during cook- 
ing, as well as variations in recipes used, it is not satisfactory to 
attempt general statements of composition of cooked foods 
and as a rule only raw foods are included in the standard 
tables. It is, however, entirely feasible for the student of 
cookery in any given operation to weigh the ingredients and 
the final product and calculate the composition and food 
value of the latter. Full directions and data for such cal- 
culations will be found in Rose's Laboratory Handbook for 
Dietetics. 

To illustrate and encourage such calculations the food values 
of typical cooked foods will be shown at intervals throughout 
this book and it is recommended that the laboratory work in 
cookery be made to include the accurate weighing of the fin- 
ished product and the calculation of its food value in as many 
cases as possible. 

For the sake of completeness and because of the im- 
portance now attached to these three elements, the food 
values here given include data for calcium, phosphorus, and 
iron. When time is limited, the protein, fat, carbohy- 
drates, calories, and cost may be calculated without the ash 
constituents. 



20 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

EXAMPLES OF CALCULATED FOOD VALUES 
Apple Sauce 



Material 


<: 


ii 
15 


3| 
^0 


b ■-' 



H 

Pi 
u 


go 


H 
en 

U 

$ 


Calcium 

(Calc. as CaO) 

Grams 


w ;§ S 
CM =^ 2 

PL,0 


en 


Apples . . 
Sugar . . . 
Water . . . 


3 

6 tbsp. 

|c. 


159 

80.2 


.64 


.79 


22.58 
80.2 


100 

321 


.034 
.0106 


.022 


.05 


.0005 


Total cooked 

loo-Calorie \ 

Portion! / 


f c. 
3 tbsp. 


239.2 
56.95 


.64 
•15 


.79 
.19 


102.78 
24.47 


421 

100 


.0446 
.0106 


.022 
.005 


.05 

.012 


.0005 
.0001 



Stewed Prunes 



Prunes . , 
Sugar . , . 
Water . . . 


25 
5i tbsp. 

2C. 


226.8 

75 


4.08 




141.07 

75 


580 
300 

880 
100 


.06 
.008 

.068 
.008 


.116 


.464 


.0052 


Total cooked 

loo-Calorie \ 

Portion 1 / 


lie. 
3 prunes 
+ sirup 


53S 
60.7 


4.08 
.46 


216.07 
24.42 


.116 
.013 


.464 
.052 


.0052 
.0006 



References 

Hausmann. Home Manufacture and Use of Unfermented Grape 

Juice. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' 

Bulletin, 644 (1915). 
Langworthy. Raisins, Figs and other Dried Fruits and Their 

Use. United States Department of Agriculture, Yearbook 

for 191 2, pages 505-522. 
Langworthy. Use of Fruits as Food. United States Department 

of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, No. 293 (1907). 

1 Also called Standard Portion (S. P.) 



FRUITS 21 

Langworthy and Milner. Some Results Obtained in Studying 
Ripening Bananas with the Respiration Calorimeter. Year- 
book of U. S. Department of Agriculture for 191 2. 

Milan and Gardner. Comparative Cooking Qualities of Some of 
the Common Varieties of Apples Grown in Oregon. Oregon 
Agricultural College Experiment Station, Bulletin No. 124. 

Morse. The Cold Storage of Apples. New Hampshire College 
Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin No. 93 (1902). 

Rose, Flora. Preservation of Food in the Home. Part i, Cornell 
Reading-courses. Food Series No. 4. 

Scott. Fruit Addition to the Diet of the Growing Child. Ameri- 
can Medicine, vol. 19, pages 416-420 (1913). 

Sherman. Food Products. 



CHAPTER III 
CANNING AND PRESERVING 

Fruit 

Fruit and vegetables may be preserved when in season for 
use out of season by the following methods : 

I. canning, various methods 2. preserving, various stages 

3. jelly making 4. pickling 

5. spicing 6. salting 

7. drying 

All fruits and vegetables are not prepared in the same way. 



Suitable for canning are 


• 




a. Fruits 






pears 


plums 


strawberries 


peaches 


pineapple 


raspberries 


apricots 


cherries 


blueberries 


apples 


blackberries 




h. Vegetables 






peas 


carrots 


beans 


corn 


asparagus 
tomatoes 


beets 



Fruits suitable for preserving are : 

a. Preserve 

strawberries quince 

large currants grapes 

plums gooseberries 

22 



blackberries 
cranberries 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 



23 



h. Jam 

strawberries grapes 

plums raspberries 

elderberries cranberries 

c. Marmalades 

apricot 

plums 

peaches 

apple — sweet, sour 

crabapple 

yellow tomato 

d. Butters 

crabapple 
quince 

e. " Honey " (so called) 

sy^ ot apple lemon 

giapefruit yellow tomato 

/. Conserves 

plums, oranges, and lemon 
plums, lemon, raisins 
grapes, lemon 
raisins, rhubarb 
figs, rhubarb 
peach, lemon, orange 



blackberries 
currants 



cranberry 

grapefruit 

lemon 

quince 

orange 



apple 
grape 



qumce 
kumquat 



peach, currants, lemon 
pears, lemon, ginger root 
prunes, lemon, orange 
orange, grapefruit, lemon 
kumquat, orange 
cranberries, lemon, raisins 



nuts in combination with any of the above 

Fruits suitable for jelly making are : 

a. Very juicy fruits 

strawberries elderberries 

raspberries plums 

blackberries currants 



grapes, cultivated and wild 



24 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

h. Less juicy fruits 

peaches quince 

apricots cranberries 

apples — sweet, sour, crabapple 



Fruits suitable for pickling are : 




tomatoes — red, yellow 


peaches 


blackberries 


pears 


cucumbers 


peppers — red, green 


Vegetables suitable for pickling 


are : 


cauliflower 


beets 


cabbage 


onions 


Fruits suitable for spicing are : 




blackberries 


pears 


peaches 


red tomatoes 



Fruits suitable for salting are : 

cucumbers, large and small 



Fruits suitable for drying are : 




currants 


apricots 


grapes 


plums 


peaches 


prunes 


pears 


cranberries 



apples — sweet, sour 

Fruits suitable for beverages are : 

grapes apples — sweet, sour 

currants cherries 

raspberries lemons 

elderberries oranges 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 25 

Preservation of fruits is secured by : 

1 . Heat and exclusion of air 
Ex. — canned peaches 

2. Exclusion of air but heat not necessary because the mate- 

rial itself is strongly acid. 
Ex. — canned tomato, canned rhubarb 

3. Strong acids. 

Ex. — pickled pears 

4. Strong brine 

Ex. — salted cucumbers 

5. Heavy solution of sugar. 

Ex. — preserves, jams, conserves, butters, honey, jellies. 

Relation to Microorganisms 

All the above methods of preserving fruits and vegetables 
depend upon either destroying, or preventing the action of 
microorganisms which would cause the food to ferment, decay, 
or become moldy. 

The microorganisms which thus spoil or injure food are cer- 
tain species of the three groups : 

a. Molds. 

b. Yeasts. 

c. Bacteria. 

Molds are seen often as yellow, green, or white growths, very 
beautiful in color and arrangement, upon lemons, oranges, 
bread, jams, jellies, and sirups. 

Some typical forms often found on food are : 

bread mold — Mucor stolonifer 

green cheese mold, or blue mold — Penicillium glaucum 



26 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

mold of decaying vegetation : 

blue green — Aspergillus f umigatus 
yellow — Aspergillus flavescens 
black — Aspergillus niger. 

Yeasts cannot usually be seen without the microscope, but 
evidence of their work is shown by fermentation of fruit juices 
accompanied by bubbles of gas or a loud pop when a cork or 
cover is removed. 

Bacteria are all too small to be seen without a good micro- 
scope. The work of bacteria is shown generally by a disa- 
greeable sour taste often accompanied by an unpleasant odor 
with or without an evolution of gas. 

The following experiments will illustrate the work of molds, 
yeasts, and bacteria, but the detailed study of these organisms 
and the changes which they bring about in food materials is a 
science in itself and one of the greatest interest and importance 
to all students of foods and cookery. The reading and study 
of Buchanan's Household Bacteriology (which treats of the 
yeasts and molds as well as the bacteria of economic impor- 
tance) is especially recommended. 

EXPERIMENTS 

24. — Collection of mold for study. 

a. Expose a piece of moist bread to the air of the room for 
about lo minutes. Keep in a moist chamber and watch for the 
development of mold. A jelly glass inverted over the bread on a 
plate will do for the glass chamber. 

h. Expose a dish containing a freshly opened baked potato 
to the air of the room for about lo minutes. Cover ; keep in locker 
and watch for the development of mold. 

c. Bring into the laboratory anything that you can find on 
which mold is growing. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 27 

25. — Description of mold. Describe briefly the general appearance 
of these various forms under a small magnifying glass (15 diam.) 
or under a dissecting microscope (15 diam.). 

Describe briefly the naked eye appearance of these various molds 
that appear in the laboratory. 

26. — Mold on bread. Place several sHces of bread under a bell 
glass or any dish that will protect it from evaporation. Battery 
jars, large beakers, or even common bowls will answer. Moisten the 
bread with water and put aside in a warm place (8o°-9o° F.). After 
two or three days the bread will usually show signs of white mold. 
Allow the mold to grow until some color appears and then determine, 
if possible, whether there are more than one species of mold on the 
bread. 

27. — Molds on different foods. Under separate bell glasses place 
bits of cheese, some pieces of lemon, and a bit of banana. Each of 
these should be moist. Cover and put aside dish as in the last experi- 
ment. Molds will grow in a few days, but probably different spe- 
cies will grow upon the different materials. Compare the molds and 
determine how many kinds can be seen. 

28. — Experiment to show the mycelium. Place a little fruit juice, 
such as may be obtained from canned fruit, in two tubes or in 
homoeopathic vials and drop a few mold spores from the last experi- 
ment, or a Httle dust from the floor upon the surface of the liquid. 
Set aside to grow and notice how the molds spread and send fine 
threads into the Hquid. Later notice that colored masses of spores 
grow in the air upon the surface of the liquid but not in the Hquid 
below. 

29. — Spores. After the molds of the previous experiments have 
begun to produce spores, as shown by the appearance of some color, 
remove a little spore material from the surface with a knife blade or 
a platinum wire and examine under a microscope. For this purpose 
a compound microscope is necessary, since the spores are very small. 

30. — Growth of mold from spores. Moisten a bit of bread and 
transfer with a platinum wire a little bit of the spore mass from a 
vigorously growing mold to the surface of the bread. Cover with 



28 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

a bell glass and set aside for growth. Examine every day and note 
that molds start from the points where the bread was inoculated with 
the mold spores. 

31. — Mold spores in dust. Melt gelatin^ in 7 prepared test tubes, 
and pour it from each into sterilized petri dishes. Replace the cover 
upon the dish and allow the gelatin to harden. Label the petri 
dishes A, B, C, D, E, F, and G. Proceed as follows: 

A. Sweep a little dust from the floor and scatter over the 
prepared gelatin in A. Replace the cover and allow the dish to re- 
main in a cupboard until molds begin to grow. Note the number of 
hours or days until a growth appears. Obtain dust from the follow- 
ing sources and proceed as in A. 

B. Dust from a crack in the flour. 

C. Shake a dry duster over the gelatin. 

D. Shake a damp duster over the gelatin. 

E. Shake the hem of a skirt over the gelatin. 

F. Expose a plate of gelatin to the air of the room while 
sweeping. 

G. Expose a plate of gelatin to the air of the room 2 hours 
after sweeping and dusting thoroughly. 

Note : The above experiments may be performed using moist bread instead 
of petri dishes of gelatin, but the results are not as impressive. 
Bread can be used, however, if gelatin is not at hand. 

32. — The effect of drying. Place under separate bell glass two 
slices of bread, one of which is damp, either naturally or slightly^ 

^Preparation of gelatin culture media: To 100 grams of gelatin add 900 cc. of 
water and about 5 grams of Liebig's Extract of Beef and cook in double boiler for 
5 minutes. While still hot filter the material through absorbent cotton. In using 
absorbent cotton for this purpose, a large funnel should be used and the absorbent 
cotton wet with hot water, placed in it. The liquid is poured into the cotton and it 
will run through readily, coming out as a tolerably clear solution. Some of the fil- 
tered jelly is to be placed in sterilized flasks and some in test tubes, about 10 cc. in 
each. Plug the flasks and test tubes with cotton and steam the jelly in a common 
steamer for 30 minutes. At the end of 24 hours it should again be placed in the 
steamer and steamed for half an hour. Once more set it aside for 24 hours and upon 
the third day steam it again for half an hour and cool. Material thus prepared 
should give a clear, sHghtly brownish jelly, which, if properly sterilized, will keep 
indefinitely. It should be acid to litmus paper. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 29 

moistened with water, and the other dried. Leave for two or three 
days and notice the effect of drying in preventing the growth of 
molds. If one slice remains dry, no molds will grow upon it though 
the other soon becomes covered. 

33. — The effect of boiling temperature. In each of two test tubes 
of gelatin place a small quantity of mold spores. Melt the gelatin 
in the tubes at as low a heat as will melt it. Pour the contents of 
one tube into a petri dish and cover at once. Place the other tube in 
a beaker of boiling water and allow the water to boil briskly for half 
an hour, after which the gelatin is to be poured into a petri dish and 
treated like that in the first tube. Set both dishes aside for mold 
growth and examine at intervals for several days, noticing whether 
molds develop in both dishes or only in the first. If they grow in 
both, note the relative abundance in the two dishes. 

34. — Effect of low temperature. Prepare two plates of hardened 
gelatin and sow mold spores upon the surface of each. Leave one 
in the ordinary room temperature and place the other in an ice chest 
or some other place where the temperature is low. Compare day by 
day, and determine the effect of low temperature in checking or 
stopping mold growth. Do any molds grow upon the dish placed 
in the ice chest ? 

35. — Effect of air currents. Moisten a slice of bread and sow 
mold spores upon it, or allow it to mold spontaneously under a bell 
glass. After it shows a luxuriant growth of mold, remove the bell 
glass and leave it exposed to brisk currents of the air. Notice how 
the growth of the mold ceases and the delicate mycelium flattens 
down close to the bread. 

36. — Molds in cheese. Obtain a bit of Roquefort cheese. Cut 
it open and remove a bit of the green mass in the middle by means 
of a knife point or platinum wire. Sow this substance upon the 
surface of a dish of hardened gelatin and set aside for growth. 
After two or three days, the molds will begin to develop and may 
be studied with a microscope. When they begin to produce spores, 
they should, if possible, be studied sufficiently to determine the 
species. 



30 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

EXPERIMENTS ILLUSTRATING THE ACTION OF 

BACTERIA 

37. — Putrefaction. 

Place in a series of test tubes a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h, with a little cold 
water, the following : 

a — a small piece of chopped raw meat 

b — a small amount of white of egg 

c — I tsp. bread flour 

d — i tsp. cornstarch 

e — ^ tsp. cane sugar 

/ — a small amount of ground dried peas 

g — ^ tsp. melted butter 

h — I tsp. olive oil. 

Cover each test tube with a piece of cheesecloth or stop with cotton. 

Place all the test tubes together in a warm place for three days and 
watch to determine which will putrefy and in what order. 

Putrefaction can be detected by the disagreeable odor and slimy 
condition of the water. 

38. — Effect of moisture. Place a small amount of the following 
foods in dry test tubes a, b, c, d, e, f. 

In a duplicate series place the same foods, but moisten each with 
water. 

Allow all to remain in a warm place and compare at the end of 3 
days. 

Notice the effect of the water in evidently promoting putrefaction. 

Foods — dry and wet. 

a — dried crushed peas. 

b — oatmeal 

c — bread 

d — entire wheat flour 

e — bread flour 

/ — graham cracker 

39. — Effect of temperature. Place bits of meat with a little water 
in three test tubes. Put the first tube in an ice chest, the second in 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 31 

ordinary room temperature, and the third close to a stove or radiator 
where the temperature is high. Notice the rapidity of putrefaction 
in each case. 

40. — Effect of boiling. Chop finely some raw beef and place it in 
water, warming slightly, but' not heating it to more than 130° F. 
Divide into two parts, place each in a test tube, setting one aside 
without further treatment, but bringing the other to a brisk boil for 
a moment and then setting beside the first. At the end of twenty- 
four hours, examine to determine if putrefaction has occurred. 

Effect of freezing. A visit to a cold storage plant with subse- 
quent discussions will be more beneficial than an experiment to show 
the effect of freezing upon bacteria. 

EXPERIMENTS ILLUSTRATING YEASTS AS RELATED 
TO FRUITS AND SIRUPS 

41. — Fermentation of cider. Grind up a few apples and strain 
the juice from the same by squeezing through cheesecloth. Collect 
the juice in test tubes and allow it to stand for a few days. A fer- 
mentation soon appears and the juice turns to cider. Examine the 
sediment with a microscope and detect the presence of yeast. Close 
up the tube with a cotton plug and leave it for a number of weeks, 
determining whether it subsequently becomes acid by the develop- 
ment of acetic acid. 

42. — Fermentation of grape juice. Proceed as above, using 
grapes instead of apples. The juice will become wine if fermenta- 
tion occurs properly. 

43. — Effect of temperature. Prepare 3 tubes with molasses and 
water as above described and inoculate each with 3 drops of yeast 
in water. Place one tube in a refrigerator, a second in a moderately 
warm temperature, above 70° F., and a third in a warmer place, 
near a stove or radiator (temp, about 90° F,). Compare the three at 
the end of three, six, and twenty-four hours, and note the effect of 
temperature upon growth. 

44. — Effect of light. Prepare two tubes in the same way and set 
one in a bright Hght and the other in a dark place. Keep both tubes 



32 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

at the same temperature and determine whether light has any effect 
upon the rapidity of growth. 

45. — Make a small cavity in the surface of a glass of jelly. 
Place a drop of fermented grape juice in the cavity, replace the 

paraffin and tin covers, and allow the jelly to remain in a dark cup- 
board. 

Examine after three days and notice the changes which have 
occurred in : 

1. taste 

2. odor 

3. consistency 

46. — a. Allow jelly to remain uncovered for a few minutes after 
it has cooled. Place the tin cover on jelly glass and set aside in 
warm, dark place. 

h. Examine daily for growths which will soon appear. 

c. Try to determine what kinds of mold appear.^ 

d. What is the coral pink mass which will probably appear? 

e. Allow the action of microorganisms to continue until 
the jelly becomes semi-liquid. Place it in a bottle and cork tightly. 

/. Keep the bottle in a warm place and notice the changes 
taking place. 

g. What are the bubbles and froth which appear when the 
cork is removed ? 

h. What microorganisms other than molds have been at 
work? 

47. — a. Partly fill a sterile jar a with hot peaches and sirup just 
ready fer canning. Repeat in a second jar h. 

b. Adjust the rubber band and seal a to keep out the air. 
Omit the rubber band on b, but clamp down the cover. 

c. Place a and b together with a jar filled and sealed and 
containing no air bubbles in a warm, dark place. Compare daily for 
signs of the action of microorganisms. 

^ An idea of the probable kind may be obtained by noting color and general 
appearance and comparing with what has already been learned. For actual iden- 
tification the "key" at the back of Bucha.na.n's Household Bacteriology will be found 
most useful. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING t,2> 

d. Compare a and b. Why should a show molds when the 
outside air is excluded? 

e. Why does no change occur in the third jar? 

48. — From these experiments what conclusions do you make as 
to: 

a. The covering of jelly or jams with hot paraffin or paper 
wet in alcohol. 

b. The exclusion of air or air bubbles from a canned mixture. 

c. The rate of action of microorganisms in a solution as jam 
or jelly compared with that in a sirup as canned peaches. 

d. In what way can sugar in large amounts act as a partial 
preservative of fruits ? 

Definitions 

As usage differs somewhat the following definitions are given to 
show the sense in which each of the terms is used in this book. 

Canned food — food products preserved in air-tight containers with 
or without heat and addition of sugar or acid. 

Preserves — whole fruit or large pieces of fruit in a heavy solution 
of sugar. 

Jams — fruit which is finely divided or reduced to a pulp in a 
heavy solution of sugar. 

Marmalades — fruit pulp in a finely divided condition to which 
may be added various spices and fruit flavors, together with a smaller 
amount of sugar than we find in jams. 

Butters — fruit pulp very finely mashed, spiced, and often flavored 
with lemon. 

" Honey " — fruit sirup with dense solution of sugar but still 
liquid. 

Conserves — mixtures of fruit more or less finely divided in a 
fairly heavy solution of sugar, semi-liquid. 

Juices — fruit juices with or without sugar, lemon, or other flavoring. 

Utensils necessary in Preserving Fruits 

scales 

measuring cup, any material not tin 

saucepan, any material not tin 

D 



34 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

new rubbers to fit jars 

perfect covers for jars, — tin, glass 

wooden spoon 

silver knife for removing skins. 

silver fork for removing bubbles from inside of jar 

jelly bag of heavy material or several thicknesses of cheesecloth 

containers for product 



glass jars 


stone crocks 


jelly glasses 


porcelain jars 




glass bottles 


paraffin 




corks 





General Directions 

I. — Canning without sugar. 

a. Wash the jars and place them together with their covers 
in cold or slightly warm water. Bring to the boiling point and allow 
them to boil for 20 minutes. Place a wooden rack in kettle before 
putting in jars. 

b. Wash and prepare the fruit or vegetable in the desired 
shape for canning. 

c. Place the prepared fruit in the sterile jars; do not wipe 
the jars on the inside. Arrange the cover but do not seal ; place the 
jars in warm water and boil or steam the proper length of time for 
the given fruit or vegetables (see recipe). 

II. — Canning with sugar. 

a. Use one third as much sugar as fruit (by weight). 

b. Use 4 c. of water to each lb. of sugar. 

c. Prepare a sirup of the sugar and water by dissolving the 
sugar in the water and boiling the solution one minute. 

d. Canning may be accomplished by the following : 

1 a. Place the prepared fruit in sterile jars, covering fruit 
with the sirup, adjust the cover and steam or boil the required 
length of time for each fruit. 

2 a. Allow the prepared fruit to boil in the sirup until 
pulp is soft. Place fruit in sterile jars as soon as cooked, cover with 
the sirup, remove the air bubbles, cover and seal air-tight. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 35 

III. — Preserving. 

1 . Preserves 

a. Three fourths as much sugar by weight as fruit 
measured by weight. 

b. To each pound of sugar add i c. of water. 

c. Heat water and prepared fruit to the boiling point, 
allow them to boil one minute. 

d. Add the sugar and continue the boiling until the 
sirup is thick. 

2. Jams 

a. Three fourths by weight as much sugar as fruit 
measured by weight. 

b. 2 c. of water to each pound of sugar. 

c. Boil prepared fruit and water together for 5 min- 
utes. Add the sugar and continue cooking until the sirup jellies. 

Note : Fruits with large seeds should be put through the colander after 
boiling five minutes and before the sugar is added. Rub the 
pulp through carefully, but keep back the seeds. 



Marmalades (in general) 

a. One half by weight as much sugar as fruit measured 



by weight. 



b. Three c. of water to each pound of sugar. 

c. Boil fruit until soft enough to be put through a 
colander, reduce to a pulp, add the sugar, and cook until mixture is 
very thick. 

4. Butters 

Practically the same as marmalade. Do not allow the 
mixture to become as dense as marmalade. 

5. Honey 
special recipes 

6. Conserves 
special recipes 

7. Jellies — 2 methods 

a. Wash and prepare the fruit for cooking, allow it to 
cook in its own juice until very soft. 



36 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

b. Strain the juice through a jelly bag (without 
squeezing) . 

c. Measure or weigh the juice and add an equal amount 
of sugar or 

a' Allow the fruit to cook in water sufHcient to keep 
the pulp from sticking to bottom of saucepan or burning. 

b' Strain the pulp through jelly bag, measure the 
juice, and add sugar in the proportion of f as much sugar as juice. 
Note : The less juicy fruits need to have water added when first cooking. 

8. Fruit juices 

a. Proceed as for jelly until the fruit juice is extracted. 
Turn into sterile bottles, seal air-tight immediately. 
Note : Sugar may be added and sirup boiled 2 minutes before sealing. 

2 tbsp. sugar 
I qt. fruit sirup 

General Directions for Canning and Preserving 

Fruit should be fresh, firm, and not over-sized. 

Sterilize jars by washing thoroughly, then placing in a pan of cold 
water and heating gradually to the boiling point. Remove from 
water as needed and turn upside down to drain before filling with fruit. 

Do not dry inside of jars before filling. 

Sterilize rubbers by dipping in boiling watet. New rubbers must 
be used each year. 

When cans are filled and sealed, turn upside down and let stand 
for a short time to be sure they are air-tight. If not, sirup will run out. 

If necessary to change fruit from one can to another, always re- 
heat mixture. 

When preparing jellies, jams, or marmalades, sterilize jars as in 
canning but let dry before filling. 

Always seal jellies, jams, and marmalades with paraffin when mix- 
ture is cold and cover paraffin with tin to protect from mice. 

When boiling any fruit or sirup, never allow it to boil vigorously. 
Always boil it gently that sirup may be clear. 

Note : Paraffin may be washed, dried, and used again after being removed 
from top of jar. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 37 

,. Canned Peaches I 

Ingredients : 

I c. sugar I qt. peaches 

I c. water 
Method : 

Prepare sirup by boiUng sugar and water 5 minutes. Wipe peaches 
and put in boiling water long enough to easily loosen skins. Remove 
skins with silver knife. Cut in halves, if large, and remove stones ; 
if small, may be left whole. Pack carefully in sterilized jars, but do 
not crush. Fill can with sirup, adjust covers loosely, and put in a 
rack in a covered pan with water up to the neck of the jars. Steam 
20 minutes, or until soft. Remove jars, and fill to overflowing with 
sirup or boiling water and adjust rubbers and tops quickly. 

One or two stones may be left in each jar for flavor. 

,, , , Canned Peaches II 

Method : 

Weigh fruit after peeling. Allow ^ its weight in sugar and 2^ or 
3 c. water to each pound of sugar. Make a sirup of sugar and water 
by boiling fifteen minutes and cook fruit in it — a small quantity at a 
time. Fill jars with fruit and sirup, letting the sirup overflow. 
Put on sterilized rubbers, adjust covers, and seal. 

,, , , ^ Canned Tomatoes 

Method I: 

Wipe tomatoes, cover with boiling water, and let stand until skins 
may be easily removed, but not long enough to allow the fruit to 
become soft. Remove skins, cut fruit in pieces, and cook without 
adding water until thoroughly scalded, skimming often during the 
cooking. Fill sterilized jars with tomatoes and liquid, adjust rubbers 
and covers, and seal at once. 

Method II: 

Sterilize jars. Wash tomatoes and plunge into boiling water to 
loosen skins. 

Place tomatoes in jars, adding i tsp. salt to i qt. of the fruit. Ad- 
just covers without rubbers, place on a rack with enough water to 



38 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

come to neck of jars. Bring to boiling point and boil for 20-30 
minutes. Remove jars, fill to overflowing with hot stewed tomatoes or 
boiling water.i adjust rubbers and covers, and seal. Be careful to 
have no seeds under the rubbers. 

Grape Juice I 

Ingredients : 

10 lbs. grapes (Concord) 2 qts. water 

2 lbs. sugar 
Method : 

Wash the grapes and cook them in water until the skins are soft. 
Strain the pulp and liquid through a wet jelly bag. Reheat the 
juice and add the sugar and allow sirup to boil two minutes. Turn 
into, hot sterile bottles, cork, and seal with paraffin or equal parts of 
shoemakers' wax and resin. 

Grape Juice II 

Ingredients : 

8 lbs. grapes (Niagara) i qt. water 

I lb. sugar 
Method : 

Wash the grapes and cook in one quart of water until the skins are 
soft. Strain the pulp and juice through a wet jelly bag. Add the 
sugar and boil the juice two minutes. Turn into hot sterile jars, 
cork, and seal. 

Raspberry Vinegar 

Ingredients : 

3 pts. raspberries i pt. cider vinegar 

I pt. juice to I lb. sugar 

Method : 

Prepare the berries, cover with the vinegar, and allow them to stand 

overnight. Strain fruit and liquid through a wet jelly bag and boil 

the sirup fifteen minutes. Add the sugar and boil five minutes. 

Turn into hot sterile bottles, cork, and seal. 

1 Addition of water is permissible only when canning for home use. Under the 
regulations for the enforcement of the National Food and Drugs Act commercial 
canned tomatoes must not contain added water. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 39 

Jelly 
See general directions. 

Jams, Preserves, Marmalade 
See general directions. 

Grapefruit Marmalade 

Ingredients : 

2 oranges 2 lemons 

2 grapefruit sugar 

water 

Method : 

Scrub the fruit with a brush thoroughly. Remove the peel and 
cook the grapefruit rind in several waters until the inside white is 
soft. Remove this with a spoon. Slice the rinds of all three fruits 
in very fine shreds. Slice the fruit pulp in thin slices, removing all 
seeds, as these give a bitter taste to the marmalade. Weigh the pulp 
and sliced rinds. Calculate the sugar according to general directions. 
Cook the pulp in a large quantity of water until the rinds have be- 
come almost clear. This may be done by continuous boiling or by 
boiling on consecutive days, but will probably take three hours. 
Measure the liquid and add more water to bring it up to the amount 
required for the sugar to be used (see general directions). Add the 
sugar and allow sirup and pulp to boil gently until mixture will 
jelly slightly. Turn into sterile jars, cool, seal with hot paraffin, 
cover with tin covers. 

Note : The sugar must be added last as long boiling reduces the sweetness 
and changes the color to a caramel brown. Why ? 

Yellow Tomato Marmalade 

Ingredients : 

7 lbs. ripe yellow tomatoes 5 lbs. granulated sugar 

7 lemons 
Method : 

Weigh tomatoes after peeling. Slice yellow skins of lemon in 
thin pieces. Discard white skin and cut pulp in small pieces. Boil 
until the sirup is thick and jellylike. 



40 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 
6 lbs. grapes 

3 lbs. sugar 

Method : 



Spiced Grapes 



i^ c. vinegar 



J c. mixed spice 



cinnamon 
cloves 
, allspice 



Wash grapes and remove from stems. Put pulp into saucepan 
(save the skins). Cook pulp until seeds can be removed. Turn 
into colander and press pulp through, add skins and other ingredients 
and cook until skins are soft and mixture thick and jellylike. 



Gingered Pears I 



Ingredients : 

4 lbs. pears cut in thin slices 
2 lemons 

I qt 
Method : 



3 lbs. sugar 
I lb. green ginger root 
water 



Cook pears, lemons cut in fine slices, and chopped ginger root until 
the fruit is almost transparent. Add the sugar and boil gently until 
the sirup jellies and fruit is clear and transparent. 



Ingredients : 

8 lbs. pears (Seckel) 
4 lbs. sugar 

Method : 



Gingered Pears II 



I lb. crystallized ginger 
3 lemons 



Wash, core, and slice the pears in thick pieces. Add the sugar and 
crystallized ginger cut in small pieces. Allow the mixture to stand 
24 hours. Add lemon, sliced very thin, and cook mixture until sirup 
is thick and jellylike. Serve with ice cream. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 41 

Rhubarb Conserve I 

Ingredients : 

5 lbs. rhubarb 4 lbs. sugar 

4 oranges 3 Qts. water 

Method : 

Wash and cut the rhubarb into one-half inch pi2ces. Scrub the 
oranges, slice through the rind into very thin sections, being careful 
to remove all seeds. Cook the rhubarb and sliced orange together 
for 15 minutes, adding a very little water if necessary to prevent the 
fruit from burning. 

Add the 3 qts. water and 4 lbs. sugar and allow the mixture to 
boil gently until sirup is thick and jellylike. 



Rhubarb Conserve II 

Ingredients : 

4 lbs. rhubarb i lemon 

I lb. raisins 2 oranges 

4 lbs. sugar 
Method : 

Wash and cut rhubarb into one-half inch pieces. Boil rhubarb, 
raisins, and sugar gently 20 minutes, add juice of oranges and lemon 
and the rind of the orange. Boil until sirup is thick and jellylike. 



Apricot Conserve 

Ingredients : 

I lb. dried apricots 3 pineapples 

i^ qts. water i c. Sultana raisins 

sugar I c. water 

Method : 

Wash the apricots and soak them in cold water overnight. Using 
this same water, cook them until soft. Press pulp through a colander. 
Shred the pineapple and cook in a small quantity of water until 
soft. Combine the cooked fruits and raisins. Weigh and add half 
as much sugar. Add i c. water and cook until sirup is thick and 
jelly like. 



42 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Pineapple and Cherry Preserves 

Ingredients : 

I lb. pineapple ij lb. sugar 

I lb. white cherries i c. water 

Method : 

Cut the pineapple in thin slices. Wash and stone the cherries and 
add the pineapple. Add the sugar and cook until mixture is thick 
and sirup is jelly hke. 

Grape Conserve 

Ingredients : 

9 lbs. grapes | lb. walnuts 

I lb. raisins 4 lbs. sugar 

Method : 

Boil skins until tender. Heat pulp until seeds can be easily re- 
moved. Add raisins to skins and pulp and boil until consistency of 
marmalade. Add nuts five minutes before removing from fire. 

Plum Conserve 

Ingredients : 

3 lbs. pitted plums i lb. walnuts 

1 lb. raisins 3 oranges 

3 lbs. sugar 
Method : 

Wash and cut plums in pieces. Add chopped raisins, and oranges, 
and boil until the consistency of marmalade. Add nuts five minutes 
before removing from fire. 

Cherry Conserve 

Ingredients : 

2 qts. currants i qt. sour cherries 

2 qts. red raspberries | lb. walnut meats 

2 qts. sugar 
Method : 

Stem the currants, pit cherries, and boil all ingredients except nuts 
until consistency of marmalade. Add nuts five minutes before re- 
moving from fire. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 43 

Mustard Pickle 

Ingredients : 

I qt. cucumbers sliced | c. salt 

I qt. small cucumbers 2 qts. vinegar 

1 qt. small onions 3 c. brown sugar 

2 heads cauliflower i c. flour 

I green pepper 2 tbsp. mustard 

2 tbsp. turmeric 
Method : 

Cover the vegetables with salted water and let stand overnight. 
In the morning, cook in the same water until tender, then drain. 
Make a paste by cooking together the other ingredients, then 
add the drained vegetables. When sufficiently thick, put in wide- 
mouthed sterilized jars or bottles. 



Chili Sauce 

Ingredients : 

12 ripe tomatoes 2 c. vinegar 

I pepper, finely chopped 3 tbsp. sugar 

I onion i tbsp. salt 

2 tsp. each, cloves, cinnamon, allspice. 

Method : 

Cook f hour or until mixture is reduced ^, 



Sweet Pickle 

Ingredients : 

7 lbs. fruit I qt. vinegar 

3I lbs. sugar 2 oz. cloves 

2 oz. cinnamon 
Method : 

Make a sirup and cook fruit in it until soft. Remove the fruit 
with a perforated spoon. Boil down the sirup and pour over the 
fruit in stone or glass jars. 

Note : Crabapples, peaches, pears, or Seckel pears may be used. 



44 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Pickled Tomatoes 

Ingredients : 

I pk. green tomatoes 2^ qts. vinegar 

1 c. salt 2 lbs. brown sugar 

2 qts. vinegar j lb. white mustard seed 

1 qt. water 

2 tbsp. each of cloves, cinnamon, ginger, black pepper. 

Method : 

Cut the tomatoes in one-fourth inch slices, and let stand over- 
night with one cup of salt. In the morning, drain and add two 
quarts of vinegar and one quart of water. Boil fifteen minutes, then 
drain. 

Take two and one half quarts of vinegar, brown sugar, mustard 
seed, and spices. Boil tomatoes in this fifteen minutes. Then turn 
all into a stone jar. 

Cucumber Pickle 

Ingredients : 

100 medium cucumbers ^ c. black mustard seed 

I qt. onions | c. white mustard seed 

I c. olive oil 

Method : 

Wash, peel, and slice the vegetables. Cover with brine (i c. salt 
and 4 qts. boihng water), let stand 2 hours and drain. 

Mix oil and mustard seed and cover with hot vinegar. Add to 
the vegetables. Seal in sterilized cans. 

Red Pepper Pickle 

Ingredients : 

^ pk. red peppers i qt. vinegar 

boiling water 2 c. sugar 

Method : 

Wash peppers, remove seeds, and shred. Cover with boiling 
water for 5 minuUs. Drain, pack in sterilized jars, and cover with a 
sirup made of the vinegar and sugar. 



canning and preserving 45 

Score Card 

Canned Fruits 
General appearance 15 

Container (5) 
Color (10) 

Fruit 50 

Whole (5) 

Cooked (20) 

Flavor (25) 

Sirup 35 

Clearness (10) 
Flavor (15) 

Density (10) 

100 

Preserves 
General appearance 30 

Container (10) 
Color (20) 

Mixture 70 

Consistency (15) 
Flavor (40) 

Density (15) 

100 

References 
Canning and Preserving 

Adams and Sandster. Practical Directions for Preserving Native 

Fruits and Vegetables. University of Wisconsin, Agricultural 

Experiment Station, Bulletin No. 136 (1906). 
Bitting. The Canning of Foods. United States Department of 

Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin No. 151 (191 2). 
Breazeale. Canning of Vegetables in the Home. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, 359 (1910). 
Buchanan. Household Bacteriology. 



46 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

CoRBETT. Canned Foods, Fruits, and Vegetables. Teachers Col- 
lege Bulletin, Fourth Series No. 12, February 15, 1913. 

GOLDTHWAITE. Principles of Jelly Making. University of Illi- 
nois, Bulletin No. 34 (191 2). 

GoLDTHWAiTE. Chemistry and Physics of Jelly-making. Journal 
of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, vol. i, pages 333- 
340; vol. 2, pages 457-462 (1909-1910). 

Gould and Retcher. Canning Peaches on the Farm. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, No. 426 
(1910). 

Hatton and Holt. Canning of Fruits and Vegetables. Georgia 
State College of Agriculture, Bulletin No. 11. 

Hausmann. Home Manufacture and Use of Unfermented Grape 
Juice. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' 
Bulletin, No. 175 (1903). 

KiNNE and Cooley. Foods and Household Management. 

Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

Nye and Austin. A Canning Business for the Farm Home. Cor- 
nell University Bulletin, vol. 2, No. 47. 

Parloa. Canned Fruit, Preserves, and Jellies. United States 
Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, 203 (1905). 

Rose. The Preservation of Food in the Home. Cornell University 
Bulletin, vol. i, No. 17. 

Sherman. Food Products. 

Wiley. Foods and their Adulteration. 



CHAPTER IV 
CEREALS 

Cereals and the various products made from grains form 
one of the most important foods for man. For the majority 
of people they furnish more nutriment than does any other 
class of food materials. Cereals have been defined as grasses,^ 
the grains of which are used for food. There are on the market 
many cereal preparations, cooked or uncooked, but these are 
made from a limited number of cereal grains and the properties 
of each preparation are dependent upon those of the cereal from 
which it is derived. 

A cereal grain is a kernel - containing a relatively small germ 
rich in protein and fat, and a relatively large endosperm con- 
taining much starch, little fat, and a moderate amount of pro- 
tein, the whole inclosed in a fibrous covering called the bran. 
The bran consists of several layers, the outermost being of little 
food value, while the " aleurone layer " (which lies between the 
fibrous covering and the starchy interior but is apt to be re- 
jected with the bran in ordinary milling processes) is rich in 
protein and in phosphorus, calcium, and iron compounds of 
much value in nutrition. A " whole grain " product is there- 
fore a more complete food than the " finer " product made 
from the endosperm only, but the latter (largely because it is 
poor in protein, fat, and ash constituents) is apt to keep longer 
than the former. 

1 Since a few of the edible grains, such as buckwheat, are seeds of plants not be- 
longing to the grass family, the term "grains" is somewhat broader than "cereals." 

2 See Sherman's Food Products, pages 270-272, for description and illustra- 
tions of the structure of the wheat kernel. 

47 



48 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

The percentage composition of the different grains and of the 
various products manufactured from them may be found in 
Bulletin 28, Office of Experiment Stations, U. S. Department of 
Agriculture, or in Sherman's Food Products, Chapter VIII. 

How to purchase cereals: Cereals do not keep well after being 
opened, as parasites are apt to appear. Therefore, purchase a small 
stock at a time. Cereals in bulk are cheaper, but not always as clean 
as those sold in packages. Grocers should be encouraged to keep 
bulk cereals in bins or other containers which are dust-proof and 
insect-proof. 

Reasons for cooking cereals : 

1. Softens the cellulose. 

2. Bursts the starch grains. 

3. Increases the palatability. 

Methods of cooking : 
Boiling in water or milk ; example, rice. 
Steaming in water or milk ; example, corn meal. 
Heat in the oven; example, corn flakes. 
Toast; example, shredded wheat. 

Methods of serving: 
Hot. Cold. 

Puddings. Thickening for croquettes. 
Fritters. Browned Shces. 

Variations in serving : 

Cream and sugar. Cream. 
Butter and sugar. Butter. 
Prune sauce. Apple sauce or sirup. 
Maple sugar. Corn sirup. 
Fresh fruit. Dried fruit. 
Creamed beef. Pudding sauce. 

Differences in consistency : 
Breakfast cereal. Mush. 
Porridge, Gruel. 
Cereal water. 



CEREALS 49 

EXPERIMENTS 

49. — Make the following tests with iodine. See page 13. 

^ tsp. dry cornstarch 
^ tsp. moist cornstarch 
^ tsp. cooked cornstarch 
Observe change in color of iodine. 

50. — Make the same test with iodine, using the following cereals, 
cooked, moist, raw: 

rice cream of wheat 

corn meal wheat flour 

shredded wheat force 

51. — Wash a little rice and test the water with iodine. See page 
13. Result? Why do you observe a change? 

52. — Collect a Httle saliva in test tubes. Add to this small 
amounts of the cooked and uncooked cereal, let stand in warm water 
ten minutes. Test part with iodine and part with Fehling-Benedict 
solution (page 13). Conclusion? 

53. — We have shown that starch is present in large quantities; 
we will now compare the thickening qualities of the following cereals : 

corn meal rolled oats 

cream of wheat rice 

Use J c. each of the above cereals. Mix each in saucepans 
of uniform size and shape with : 

a. I c. cold water. Bring to boiling point and boil 1 5 minutes. 
h. I c. boiling water. Boil 15 minutes. 

c. In each case how much water must be added to prevent 
burning and to reduce to the consistency of breakfast cereal? 

d. What individual variations in the thoroughness of cook- 
ing appear at the end of the 15 minutes? 

e. Is it best to start cereals cooking in boiling or cold water? 
/. Make a table of the amount of water required with each 

of the cereals used. Reduce it in each case by \ and again cook \ c. 
of the cereals, this time using a double boiler. 

£ 



50 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

g. Why was the amount of water reduced? 

h. Compare the products when saucepan and double boiler 
are used. 

i. What advantages has the double boiler? 

54. — When should salt be added to the cereal ? 

a. Measure two portions of rice, A and B, | c. in each 
portion. 

b. Steam A in double boiler, adding salt to the rice as 
usual. 

c. Steam B in double boiler, salting rice as in A, but also 
adding rock salt to the water in lower part, in the proportion of 2 
tbsp. to I c. water. Note the temperature of the water in lower 
part of double boiler in each case. 

d. Compare the length of time required for the cooking of 
the rice in each case. How do you explain the difference? 

56. — a. Steam the following cereals, using milk as compared with 
water for the liquid : 



milk 


water 


cream of wheat 


cream of wheat 


oatmeal 


oatmeal 


corn meal 


corn meal 


rice 


rice 



b. Compare as to taste, color. What possible objection could 
be raised to the long cooking of milk when used as a liquid with 
cereals? Is it a vital objection? 

56. — a. Use ^ c. rolled oats plus the requisite amount of water for 
breakfast cereal as decided upon in Expt. 53 /. 

Cook ^ the amount of oatmeal and water in the tireless 
cooker. 

Cook the other half in the pressure cooker. 

b. Note the length of time required in each case to cook 
the cereal. 

Explain the differences in length of time. 

c. What is the consistency of the cereal? Why? 



CEREALS 



SI 



67. — Reduce the amount of water by I and cook the cereal in both 
pressure and fireless cooker. Note the consistency of this mixture. 

58. — Repeat until the proper amount of water per unit of cereal 
is determined for each cooker. 

59. — Determine the proper amount of water to be used per unit of : 

corn meal rice 

cream of wheat malt 

60. — Compute the economy in time, fuel, and labor when the pres- 
sure and fireless cookers are used. 

61. — Compute the length of time in which each cooker would pay 
for itself in the cost of fuel saved. 

Compare the results obtained in the above experiments with the 
corresponding data in the following tabular summary and discuss any 
points which may not seem to agree. 

The Cooking of Cereals (Tabular Summary) 



Cereal 



Amount 

OF 

Water 



Salt 



Time 



I c. rolled oats 3 c. 

I c. coarse oatmeal [ 4 c. 

I c. granular cereals (except corn meal) 4-6 c. 

I c. corn meal 6 c. 

I c. rice — boiled 8 c. 

I c. rice — steamed 2 c. 



tsp. 
tsp. 
tsp. 
tsp. 
tsp. 
tsp. 



30-60 minutes 
3 hours or more 
30-60 minutes 
60 minutes 
20-30 minutes 
I hour or more 



General rules. Remove any foreign substances from cereal. A 
fireless cooker is efficient, but a double boiler is the best utensil for 
cooking cereals. Fill lower part ^ full of boiling water. It must be 
kept rapidly boiling while cereal is cooking. If more water is needed 
before the cooking is completed, boiling water should be used. 

Add cereal slowly to rapidly boiling salted water in upper part of 
double boiler and stir constantly until it thickens, cooking directly 
over the fire. Place over boiling water to finish cooking. Rice 
should be washed before cooking. 



52 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Combinations of Cereals and Fruits 

Apples in Sirup with Rice I 

Ingredients : 

I c. boiling water stick cinnamon 

I c. sugar apples 

Method : 

Boil sugar, cinnamon, and water together three minutes. 

Wash apples, core, pare, and quarter and boil in the sirup until 
tender. Remove apples from sirup as soon as transparent and con- 
tinue boiling until a medium-thick sirup is formed. Arrange apples 
attractively around a mound or mold of cereal and pour sirup over 
all. 

Apples in Sirup with Rice II 

Method : 

Steam rice in individual molds. Turn out and surround with 
stewed apples cut in eighths. Uncooked fruits, as oranges, bananas, 
or strawberries, may be used. 



Apples in Sirup with Oatmeal 

Method : 

Stew pared, cored apples and fill cavities with cooked oatmeal 
mixed with chopped dates. Pour sirup over apples and serve with 
whipped cream. This may be served for breakfast or as a simple 
dessert for luncheon. 



Oatmeal with Dates 

Ingredients : 

I c. oatmeal | 

I tsp. salt i| c. water 

Method I: 

Prepare oatmeal as usual. When half cooked, add dates, washed, 
stoned, and cut in halves ; or when oatmeal is cooked, add dates finely 
chopped. 



CEREALS 



53 



Method II: 

Wash, stone, and cut dates in quarters lengthwise. Using a custard 
cup prepare a mold by first dipping in cold water. Press pieces of 
dates against sides of cup, radiating from center like petals. Care- 
fully turn in cereal and cool. Serve with cream. 

Note: Cream of wheat, wheatena, and farina may be used with dates. 
Raisins, tigs, or prunes may be substituted for dates. 



Farinaceous Desserts 
Apple Tapioca 



Ingredients : 

J c. pearl 

cold watei 

3h c. boiling water 7 sour apples ^^^'^^^\ ^^ 

5 tsp. salt 



J c. pearl or minute tapioca t- 

cold water ^'^^^ or canned 



Method : 



§ c. sugar 



other fruits 
. may be used. 



Soak tapioca one hour in cold water to cover, drain, add boiling 
water and salt ; cook in double boiler until transparent. Core and 
pare apples, arrange in buttered pudding dish, fill cavities with sugar, 
pour over tapioca and bake in moderate oven until apples are soft. 
Serve with sugar and cream. Do not soak minute tapioca. 

Cornstarch Pudding 

Ingredients : 

I pt. milk scalded i tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. cornstarch i c. cold milk 

4 tbsp. sugar i tsp. vanilla 

Method : 
Plain 

Make paste of cornstarch, salt, sugar, and cold milk. Add to 
scalded milk slowly, stirring constantly. Stir until smooth, then 
cover and cook 45 minutes in double boiler. Add vanilla and pour 



54 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

into molds previously wet with cold water. Serve cold with cream 
and sugar. 

Chocolate 

Melt chocolate. Add scalded milk gradually. Finish as in plain 
pudding. If eggs are used, beat and add the cornstarch mixture 
slowly to them. Return to double boiler and cook 3 minutes, stirring 
constantly. 

Additions 

whites 2 eggs, or yolks 2 eggs, or 

2 squares chocolate 

Use I tbsp. cornstarch to i c. milk for soft pudding. 
Use 2 tbsp. cornstarch to i c. milk to mold. 



Baked Indian Pudding 

Ingredients : 

I qt. milk f c. corn meal 

\ tbsp. ginger " 2 c. molasses 

I egg I tbsp. butter 

\ tsp. salt 

Method : 

Scald the milk and add the molasses and butter. Mix the corn 
meal, ginger, and salt and pour the liquid over dry ingredients. Beat 
in the egg and pour the mixture into a buttered baking dish. Bake 
two hours in a moderate oven. 



Coffee Sago Pudding 

Ingredients : 

2 c. boiled coffee I c. sugar 

I c. sago I tsp. salt 

Method : 

Wash sago in cold water; add coffee and cook in double boiler 
until sago is transparent. Add sugar and salt. Serve with cream 
and sugar or soft custard. Coffee Sago may be served hot or 
cold. 



CEREALS 55 

Orange Pudding 
Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. cornstarch 2 c. boiling water 

I c. sugar I tbsp. butter 

I tsp. salt juice of i lemon 
3 oranges 

Method : 

Prepare cornstarch pudding and pour over sliced oranges. 

Rice Pudding 

Ingredients : 

I qt. milk | tsp. salt 

^ c. rice \ c. sugar 

I tsp. vanilla | c. raisins 

Method : 

Wash rice, place in a buttered pan, add other ingredients except 
raisins. Bake slowly several hours, stirring occasionally. Add 
raisins when done. 



Shredded Wheat Pudding 
Ingredients : 

2 c. hot milk ^ c. molasses 

I shredded wheat biscuit ^ tsp. salt 

I egg ^ tsp. cinnamon 

Method : 

Combine ingredients and bake in a moderate oven until firm. 
Serve with cream. 

Gruels 

Gruels are liquid preparations of finely ground grain products. 
Long cooking in a double boiler is necessary to make the starch 
soluble or to partly dextrinize it. 



56 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Arrowroot Gruel 

Ingredients : 

2 tsp. arrowroot i c. boiling water or milk 

2 tbsp. cold water salt 

Method: (for all, same as given for cereals on page 51). 



Ingredients : 

1 tbsp. barley flour 

2 tbsp. cold water 



Barley Gruel 



I c. scalded milk 
salt 



Ingredients : 

1 tbsp. corn meal 

2 tbsp. cold water 



Corn Meal Gruel 

i| c. boiling water 
salt 



Ingredients: 

I c. coarse oatmeal 
I tsp. salt 



Oatmeal Gruel 

i^ c. boiling water 

milk to thin it to right consistency 



References 



Grain Products 



BiRDSEYE. Rice and Rice Cookery. Cornell University Bulletin, 

vol. 3, January i, 19 14. 
Cereal Foods. Maine Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 

118 (1905). 
Cereals and How to Cook Them. The University of Nebraska, 

Home Studies Series No. 2. 
-Cereals and Other Starchy Foods, Demonstration. Iowa State 

College of Agriculture. Extension department. Short course 

class notes no. 5. 
Day, Edna. Digestibility of Starch of Different Sorts as Affected 

by Cooking. United States Department of Agriculture, Farm- 
ers' Bulletin, 202 (1908). 



CEREALS 57 

FouLK, Elma. Ohio State University. The Agricultural College, 

Home Makers Reading Course No. 2. 
Hunt. The Cereals in America. 
Langworthy and Hunt. Corn Meal as a Food and Ways of Using 

it. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, 

565 (1914). 
Langworthy and Hunt. Use of Corn, Kafir and Cow Peas in the 

Home. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' 

Bulletin, 559 (1913). 
Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 
Merrill. Indian Corn as Food for Man. Maine Agricultural 

Experiment Station, Bulletin 131 (1906). 
Pattee. Practical Dietetics with Reference to Diet in Disease. 
Sherman. Food Products. 
Wiley. Cereals and Cereal Products. Part 9 of Bulletin 13 of 

the Bureau of Chemistry, United States Department of Agri- 
culture. 
Woods and Snyder. Cereal Breakfast Foods. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, 249 (1911). 
Woods. Food Value of Corn and Corn Products. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, 298 (1907). 



CHAPTER V 
VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 

Vegetables cover a class of foods some of which are fruits, 
some roots, leaves, stalks, seeds, bulbs, and tubers. A classi- 
fication of vegetables is given below. Like the fruits, the vege- 
tables vary greatly in their general composition. Some, like 
the legumes, are characterized by high protein content ; others, 
including the roots and tubers, by high carbohydrate content; 
still others, including most of the leaves, stalks, and bulbs, by 
high cellulose and water content. All vegetables, however, are 
rich in one or more of the ash constituents such as iron, calcium, 
and phosphorus, which are now known to play an important 
part in nutrition. (See Sherman's Food Products, pages 324- 
329, for percentage composition, and pages 347-349 for 
percentage of ash in the edible portion.) 

Classification : 

a. According to the part of the plant used for food. 

h. Character of juice — sweet, strong. 

c. Character of plant — starchy, watery. 

d. Fresh, dried, canned. 

a. Part of the plant : 

Leaves — lettuce, water cress, spinach, cabbage, dandelion, kale, 
Swiss chard, beet tops, turnip tops. 

Stalks — asparagus, celery, rhubarb. 

Bulhs — onion, — Bermuda, Spanish, Egyptian; garlic, leek, 
shallot, chives. 

Seaweeds — Irish moss, agar or Ceylon moss. 

58 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 59 

Tubers — potatoes, Jerusalem artichokes, dasheen corms. 

Tuberous roots — sweet potatoes, yams, cassava, arrowroot. 

Succulent roots — turnips, beets, kohl-rabi, radishes, carrots, 
parsnips, oyster plant. 

Flowers — cauliflower, French artichoke. 

Fruits — tomatoes, cucumber, squash, pumpkins, okra, corn, 
peppers, eggplant. 

Seeds — peas, beans, lentils. 

b. Character of juice : 

sweet strong 

celery onions 

carrots cabbage 

beets turnips 

c. Character of plant : 

starchy watery 

potatoes cabbage 

parsnips tomatoes 

cucumbers 

Points to emphasize. Select medium-sized vegetables and wash 
carefully. Soak cauliflower in salt water before cooking. Soak 
wilted vegetables in cold water. Cook summer vegetables as soon 
after gathering as possible. If necessary to keep, place in refrigera- 
tor or in a cool cellar. Keep winter vegetables in barrels or bins in 
a dry, cold place. Empty canned vegetables as soon as opened, and 
let stand exposed to the air a few minutes to become aerated. Vege- 
tables lack fat in any quantity, therefore it is well to combine them 
with butter, oil, or cream. It saves time to cook a double portion 
of a vegetable and reheat the next day in another form. 

Reasons for cooking vegetables : 

To sterilize any from doubtful sources. 

iTo soften ceflulose. 

To make starch more easily digestible. 

To develop or modify flavors. 

To give a variety of attractive ways of serving. 



6o LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Ways of serving vegetables: 

Boiled with butter Mashed 

Creamed Puddings (Irish moss) 

Croquettes Salads 

Scalloped with cheese Souffles 

Fritters Soups 

General rules for cooking. Wash thoroughly, pare or scrape if 
skins must be removed. Let stand in cold water until cooked to 
keep crisp and prevent discoloration. Pare onions under cold water 
to absorb the odor. Cut tops of beets i inch from beet. Use one 
tsp. salt to I qt. boiling water. Add salt when vegetables are half 
cooked. The water in which vegetables are cooked is called vege- 
table stock and may be used with milk in the preparation of white 
sauce for vegetables with sweet juice. Cook strong-juiced vegetables 
uncovered in a large amount of water, sweet-juiced covered in a 
small amount of water. The color may be kept in green vegetables 
by pouring cold water through them after draining. Drain vege- 
tables as soon as tender. Cold vegetables may be used in salads, 
combined with white sauce as " creamed vegetables," or white sauce 
and buttered crumbs as " scalloped vegetables." 

EXPERIMENTS 
Potato 

62. — Prepare two very thin slices of white potato, one lengthwise 
and one across. 

Hold against a strong light. 

Observe markings and lines. What are they? 

Make a drawing. 

See Sherman's Food Products, pages 320-321, 322. 

63. — Do the same with carrot, turnip, and onion. 
Compare and state conclusions. 

64. — Wash, pare, and grate into a bowl a good-sized white potato. 
Make a microscopic examination of a particle of the pulp in a drop 

of water, before and after treatment with a drop of dilute iodine 
solution. See page 13. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 6i 

65. — Pour pulp and fluid from Expt. 64 into a wet cheesecloth 
over a bowl of cold water. 

Draw the cloth together and knead the mass in the water. 

To what is the milky color of the water due? 

Test a little of the water with iodine. 

Boil a little. 

What changes do you observe? Explain. 

66. — Change the water and continue washing the pulp from Expts. 
64 and 65 until the water is only slightly milky or clear. Save each 
water. 

Open cheesecloth and examine content. 
What does this explain as to the structure of the potato ? 
What does this explain as to the cooking of potato and other starchy 
vegetables ? 

67. — Observe the water and starch which has been standing. 
Decant ofT the water and turn sediment on to a filter paper to dry. 
Note the clear white color of the sediment. Note the brown color 

of liquid. To what is this due? (See experiments with Apple.) 

68. — Add fresh cold water to a portion of the sediment obtained in 
Expt. 67; stir until particles are all suspended. Dip in a piece of 
white muslin and iron while still wet. When have you observed this 
same result ? 

69. — Add freshly boiling water to the sediment in one bowl. Stir 
the mixture constantly. 

How does this compare with Expt. 68? 

Dip a piece of muslin in, allow it to dry, sprinkle, and iron. 

70. — Repeat Expts. 68 and 69, using carrot and turnip. 
Compare and state conclusions. 

Dextrinized Starch 

71. — a. Dextrinize one tbsp. flour by heating the flour in a dry 
utensil. 

b. Test with iodine. (See page 13.) 

c. Add water to make a solution. 

d. Does the color turn? 



62 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

e. Why not ? 

/. Does the dextrin appear to be more or less soluble than 
flour or starch in cold water ? 

g. Explain your answer. 

72. — a. Thicken ^ c. cold water with i tbsp. flour. 

h. Thicken \ c. cold water with i tbsp. dextrinized flour 
(boil each). 

c. Which mixture is thickest ? Why ? 

Starchy Vegetables 

Vegetables may be prepared for cooking processes by peeling or 
scraping. Peeling is more often done carelessly than carefully. 
Have ready the following vegetables : 

white potato sweet potato 

carrot turnip 

parsnip 

73. — Wash, scrub with a brush, and weigh each vegetable. 
Estimate the waste in the preparation of each vegetable by the 

following methods: 
a. scraping 
h. peeling carefully 
c. peeling in the usual manner 
Which method is the more economical? 

Cooking of Vegetables 

74. — Have washed and scrubbed the following vegetables : 

a. white potato 
h. sweet potato 
c. carrot 

Prepare each by: 
a. peeling 
h. scraping 
c. scrubbing, but not removing skin 

a. Boil each vegetable, prepared in the three ways. 

b. Note the length of time of cooking. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 6^ 

c. Compare as to color, texture, and flavor. 

d. Note the length of time and ease in removing the skin of the 
cooked vegetable as compared with peeling an uncooked vegetable. 

e. Test the water in each case for starch, protein, sugar, and 
mineral matter. By which method of preparation is most food value 
lost? Why? What are your conclusions? 

76. — Use the same kinds of vegetables prepared for cooking by 
peeling, scraping, and scrubbing. 

Bake in a hot oven. Note the time of baking, appearance, texture, 
color, taste in each case. 

Which method of preparation for baking vegetables is best ? Why ? 

Green Vegetables 

Green vegetables are prepared for cooking or fresh for the table 
by washing in several waters to remove sand, parasites, etc. 

76. — Wash the following vegetables : 

lettuce celery spinach 

green peas string beans onions 

cauliflower 

Arrange samples of each green vegetable as follows : 

a. Soak in cold water i hour in room. 

b. Soak in ice water i hour in refrigerator. 

c. Soak in salted cold water (2 tsp. salt to i pt. water) i hour 
in room. 

d. Soak in salted ice water (2 tsp. salt to i pt. ice water) 
I hour in refrigerator. 

o 1 . .J , / I tsp. lemon juice 1 , . 

e. Soak m acid water < . "^ > to i pt. ice water 

1 1 tsp. vinegar J 

in refrigerator i hour. 
Note the crispness in each case. 
Is there any change in color or flavor ? 

77. — Boil samples of each vegetable in the following manner : 

a. Large quantity of water. No cover. 

b. Small amount of water. Cover tightly. 

c. Small amount of water. No cover. 



64 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Compare the length of time of cooking in each case. 
Contrast color, flavor, attractiveness. 
Which method is best for each vegetable? 
Why? 

78. — Prepare spinach by cooking in double boiler, using no water 
in upper part. Enough moisture will be furnished by the water 
which clings to the spinach in washing and also the water in the plant. 

Compare with that boiled in water. 

79. — What nutrients are lost by cooking green vegetables in 
water ? 

Prove this by testing the water. The cooperation of the chemistry 
laboratory should be sought, and distilled water should be used in 
boiling the vegetables. 

Cookers 

80. — a. Prepare several kinds of roots and tubers {e.g. potatoes, 
carrots, sweet potatoes, beets, turnips, parsnips) in both the tireless 
and the pressure cooker. Note the temperature used for each cooker. 

h. Note the length of time required in each case to cook 
each vegetable and the amount of water necessary. 

c. Contrast the amount of water used and explain the 
difference. 

d. Compute the difference in labor, time, and fuel. 

81. — Repeat Expt. 80, using leafy vegetables {e.g. spinach, cabbage) 
and report results in the same way. 

82. — Experiment similarly with onions, cauliflower, and other 
vegetables. 

Summarize the evidence as to relative merits of the two methods 
for each kind of vegetable. Are there any vegetables for which 
either cooker would not be suitable? 

Buttered Beets 

Ingredients : 

6 beets (cooked) 2 tbsp. sugar 

2 tbsp. butter i tbsp. vinegar 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 



6S 



Method : 

Prepare the cooked beets in \ in. slices and place in baking dish. 
Melt the butter, add the sugar and vinegar and allow mixture to 
come to the boiling point. Pour the sirup over the beets and place 
baking dish in moderately hot oven for ten minutes. 



Ingredients : 



Glazed Carrots with Peas 



^ c. butter 
\ tbsp. sugar 



2 c. peas 
6 carrots 



Method : 

Prepare carrots, cut in strips and boil 15 minutes. Drain, return 
to saucepan, add butter and sugar, cover and cook slowly until 
tender. Add the cooked peas (canned may be used) and season. 



Ingredients . 



Corn Pudding 



2 c. corn 
2 egg yolks 
I tbsp. flour 
I tsp. salt 



I tbsp. sugar 
I tbsp. butter 
I c. milk 
I tsp. pepper 



2 egg whites 

Method : 

Melt the butter, add the sugar, flour, and milk. Let heat until 
mixture reaches boiling point. Add the slightly beaten egg yolks, 
then corn, salt and pepper. Fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites, 
pour into a buttered baking dish, and bake in a moderate oven 30-40 
minutes. Serve at once. 



Ingredients : 

I cabbage 
salt 



Buttered Cabbage 



2 tbsp. melted butter 
water 



Method : 

Separate the cabbage leaves, wash and place in boiling salted 
water. Boil until leaves are tender. Drain the water from the 
leaves, place them in serving dish and add melted butter. Serve hot. 



66 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Cabbage with Ham 

Ingredients : 

I cabbage i lb. cooked ham 



water 



Method : 



Separate and wash the cabbage leaves. Place in boiling water, 
adding the cooked ham. Allow all to boil until cabbage is tender. 
Drain water from the leaves, arrange cabbage on serving dish, and 
garnish with ham. 

Note : Bacon may be substituted for ham. 



Creamed Cabbage 

Ingredients : 

1 cabbage I c. vinegar 

2 egg yolks i c. water 
I tbsp. butter i c. cream 

Method : 

Separate the cabbage leaves, wash and cut them in thin pieces 
and cook in boiling salted water. Prepare a custard of the yolks of 
eggs, water, vinegar, and butter. Cook the mixture in a double 
boiler and as it thickens add the cream. When custard is thick, pour 
it over the cabbage in a serving dish. Serve hot. 



Stuffed Baked Potatoes 

Ingredients : 

6 baked potatoes 3 tbsp. hot milk 

2 tbsp. butter | tsp. salt 

I tsp. white pepper 
Method : 

Cut the potatoes in halves, lengthwise ; then without breaking the 
skin remove the inside. Mash with a fork, season, and return to 
shells, keeping it light and fluffy. Place on a pan in a hot oven until 
light brown. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 67 

Potato Apples 

Ingredients : 

2 c. hot need potatoes cayenne 

2 tbsp. butter grating of nutmeg 

^ c. grated cheese yolks 2 eggs or i whole egg 

Method: 

Mix ingredients in order given, and beat thoroughly. Shape in 
form of small apples, roll in flour, egg and crumbs, fry in deep fat. 
Insert a clove at stem and blossom end. 

Potato Puff 

Ingredients : 

2 c. mashed potatoes 2 tbsp. melted butter 

2 eggs I c. cream 

I tsp. salt 

Method : 

Beat the potatoes, eggs, and cream until the mixture is smooth and 
light. Add the melted butter and salt. Pour mixture into a buttered 
baking dish and bake in a hot oven until it is well risen and brown. 

Potato Souffle 

Ingredients : 

4 large white potatoes ^ c. milk 

I tbsp. butter | tsp. pepper 

4 egg whites 4 egg yolks 

I tsp. salt 

Method : 

Boil and rice the potatoes. Add the milk, butter, salt, pepper, and 
yolks of eggs. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs and pour the 
mixture into a buttered baking dish. Bake in a moderate oven .until 
the surface is browned. 

Sweet Potato Puff 

Ingredients : 

6 sweet potatoes 2 tbsp. butter 

whites 2 eggs \ tsp. salt 



68 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Boil and mash the sweet potatos. Add the butter, salt, and stiffly 
beaten whites of eggs. Pour the mixture into buttered custard 
cups placed in boiling water. Bake in a hot oven twenty minutes. 
Serve in the cups with a parsley garnish. 

Glazed Sweet Potato I 

Ingredients : 

6 medium-sized potatoes \ c. sugar 

J c. water i tbsp. butter 

Method : 

Wash and pare sweet potatoes. Cook ten minutes in boiling 
salted water. Drain, cut in halves lengthwise, and put in a buttered 
pan. Make a sirup of sugar, water; add butter. Brush potatoes 
with sirup and bake 15 minutes, basting twice with remaining sirup. 

Glazed Sweet Potato II 

Ingredients : 

6 medium-sized boiled sweet potatoes 

J c. butter i c. sugar 

hot water salt 

Method : 

Melt butter in a frying pan, add sugar and a little salt gradually 
to allow sugar to melt and form a brown sirup. Add enough hot 
water to reduce to a thin sirup. Cut potatoes in lengthwise slices, 
place in pan and heat over fire, basting constantly until they show a 
rich golden glaze. Serve at once. 

Browned Parsnips 

Ingredients : 

cold, boiled parsnips pepper 

butter salt 

Method : 

Cut parsnips in lengthwise slices. Place in butter until well 
browned. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 69 

_ ,. Stuffed Peppers 

Ingredients : 

6 green peppers 3 tbsp. crumbs 

1 onion 8 tbsp. chopped ham 

2 tbsp. butter salt 

I c. brown sauce pepper 

Method : 

Cut a sHce from stem end or cut peppers lengthwise. Remove all 
seeds and parboil 10 minutes. Do not leave in water. Cut onion 
in small pieces and brown in butter. Add sauce and bread crumbs. 
Sprinkle with pepper and salt. Fill peppers with mixture. Cover 
with buttered crumbs and bake 10 minutes in a hot oven. 



^ - Winter Squash 

steamed : 

Cut squash in pieces, remove seeds and stringy portion, and pare. 
Steam until soft. Mash and season with butter, salt, and pepper. 

Baked: 

Cut in 2-inch pieces, remove seeds and stringy portion, place in a 
pan, cover and bake until soft in a slow oven. Mash and serve in the 
shell or remove from the shell, mash, and season. 



r ,. , Squash Souffle 

Ingredients : 

2 c. hot steamed squash i^ c. milk 

I tbsp. brown sugar 2 eggs 

I tsp. salt i tsp. pepper 

Method : 

Wash squash, add remaining ingredients, eggs beaten separately, 
and whites folded in last. Place in pan of hot water and bake in 
moderate oven until firm. 



70 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Baked Summer Squash 

Ingredients : 

3 c. mashed, cooked squash i egg 

2^ c. bread crumbs i tsp. onion juice 

^ c. milk I tsp. pepper 

6 sHces bacon , i tsp. sah 

Method: 

Broil the bacon, and add 2 tbsp. of the fat to the squash. Com- 
bine ingredients and place in a buttered baking dish. Bake in a 
moderate oven until brown. Garnish with the bacon. 



Vegetables en Casserole I 

Ingredients : 

6 potatoes f c. rice 

I turnip I tsp. salt 

I c. peas I tsp. pepper 

I c. tomatoes | tsp. allspice 

I onion 4 c. brown stock 

Method : 

Prepare vegetables and wash rice. Put ingredients in layers in a 
casserole, add stock, cover and bake slowly 3 hours. 



Vegetables en Casserole II 

Ingredients : 

2 cooked turnips 2 tbsp. butter 

4 cooked carrots i tsp. salt 

4 c. cooked spinach j tsp. pepper 

Method : 

Line a buttered mold with strips of carrots and turnips. Fill with 
spinach seasoned with butter, salt, and pepper, set in a pan of hot 
water and bake 20 minutes. Remove from mold and surround with 
white sauce. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 71 

Eggplant en Casserole 

Ingredients : 

2 c. mashed, boiled eggplant i tsp. salt 

§ c. stewed tomatoes \ tsp. pepper 

3 tbsp. butter i tbsp. grated onion 
3 tbsp. chopped, cooked meat i c. buttered crumbs 

Method : 

Combine vegetables, meat, and seasonings, place in a casserole 
and cover with crumbs. Brown in a hot oven. 



Boston Baked Beans 

Ingredients : 

I qt. pea beans i tbsp. salt 

I lb. fat salt pork i c. molasses. New Orleans 

I tsp. soda i tbsp. mustard 

cayenne boiling water 

I small onion 

Method : 

Pick over and wash beans, cover with cold water and soak over- 
night. Drain, cover with fresh water and parboil, with soda. Drain 
again. Pour boiling water over pork, scrape rind and score. Cut 
off one thin slice and place with the onion in the bottom of the pot. 
Put beans in pot, then press pork in beans, leaving only the rind 
above. Mix the seasonings, molasses, and i c. boiling water and pour 
into the bean pot and bake in slow oven 8 to 10 hours. Add water as 
needed. Uncover bean pot during the last hour of baking to brown 
the rind. Serve with Boston Brown Bread. 



Dried Lima Beans 

Ingredients: 

I c. beans i tbsp. butter 

^ tsp. salt I tsp. white pepper 

Method : 

Wash the beans and soak overnight in plenty of cold water. Drain, 
boil in salted water 5 minutes. Add | tsp. baking soda to each 



72 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

quart water. Put them into the fireless cooker for 4 hours or more. 
Drain, season with the butter, salt, and pepper, and reheat if necessary. 



§ small onion 
water 



Stewed Lentils 

Ingredients : 

I c. lentils 
\ lb. bacon 

\ c. vinegar 
Method : 

Wash lentils and soak overnight. Drain, cover with fresh cold 
water and cook with bacon and onion several hours, until tender. 
Drain, reserving i c. liquid; thicken this with 2 tbsp. browned flour 
mixed with 2 tbsp. cold water. Boil 5 minutes, add the vinegar, 
and reheat the lentils in this sauce. Season with pepper, and salt if 
necessary. 

White Sauce 



Proportions 


Flour 


Butter 


Salt 


Milk 


L Thin — cream soups .... 
II. Medium — creamed vegetables . 

III. Thick — creamed oysters . . . 

IV. Very thick — croquettes . . . 


1 tbsp. 

2 tbsp. 

3 tbsp. 

4 tbsp. 


1 tbsp. 

2 tbsp. 

3 tbsp. 
1-2 tbsp. 


i tsp. 
itsp. 
itsp. 
itsp. 


I c. 
I c. 
I c. 
I c. 



Method : 

French 

Melt butter, add flour. Add milk, stirring constantly to prevent 
lumping or burning. Cook until mixture has thoroughly boiled. 
Add salt and pepper. If made in quantities of more than 2 c, a 
double boiler should be used in order to prevent burning or scorching. 

Hygienic 

Make a paste of flour and milk. Cook in a double boiler for 30 
minutes. Just before serving add butter, salt, and pepper. " Hy- 
gienic " white sauce is supposed to be more easily digested than that 
made by the French method as the starch is more thoroughly cooked 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 73 

and butter not cooked. The French method is more commonly 
used, however. 

Uses of White Sauce 

Cream soups Custard for fillings and ice creams 

Creamed vegetables and oysters Gravies 
Croquettes Souffles 

Variations 
Addition of eggs, cheese, fruit juices. 

Creamed Vegetables 
2 c. vegetable i c. white sauce II 

Scalloped Vegetables 

2 c. vegetables i c. white sauce II 

I c. buttered crumbs 
(See rules for scalloped dishes below) 

Note : ^ c. grated cheese may be substituted for buttered crumbs. 

Scalloped Dishes 
General Rules 

1. The crumbs used for scalloped dishes are prepared from the 
inside of stale bread. Crumb the bread by grating, or by rubbing 
two pieces together. 

2. Place the food material in two layers, using one quarter the 
amount of crumbs on the bottom of the dish, one quarter in the middle, 
and the remaining half on the top of the dish. 

3. Butter the baking dishes and shells. 

4. A moderate oven is best used in the baking. 

Crumbs for Scalloped Dishes 

Ingredients : 

I c. crumbs white pepper or cayenne 

I tsp. salt I tbsp. butter 



74 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Melt the butter in a baking dish, remove from fire and stir in 
seasoned crumbs lightly, using a fork. 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

Ingredients : 

I can or i qt. tomatoes i tsp. salt 

3 c. crumbs | tsp. pepper 

3 tbsp. butter 
Method : 

Prepare according to rule and bake one half hour covered; then 
uncover to brown crumbs. 

Scalloped Apples 

Ingredients : 

3 c. crumbs | tsp. nutmeg 

3 tbsp. butter ^ tsp. cinnamon 

3 c. sliced apples ^ lemon, juice and rind 
^ c. sugar 5 c. water 

Method : 

Mix sugar and spice. Prepare according to the rule and bake one 
hour, covered ; then uncover to brown crumbs. The water must be 
added before the top layer of crumbs. If the apples are tart, the 
lemon juice may be omitted. More water may be needed if the apples 
are not juicy. 

Cream Soups 

Cream of Asparagus Soup 

Ingredients : 

I bunch asparagus cubed 4 tbsp. flour 

I qt. boiling water i| tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. butter pepper 

I pt. milk 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 



75 



Ingredients 



Cream of Celery Soup 



i^ c. celery cubed 
I pt. boiling water 
4 tbsp. butter 



pepper 



4 tbsp. flour 
I tsp. salt 
I pt. milk 



Cream of Chicken Soup 



Ingredients 


I qt. chicken stock 

I pt. milk 

4 tbsp. chicken fat 






4 tbsp. flour 
\ tsp. celery salt 
salt and pepper 


Ingredients 


Cream of 

I can beans 
I pt. boiling water 
4 tbsp. butter 
I pt. meat stock 


String 


Bean Soup 

4 tbsp. flour 
i\ tsp. salt 
pepper 
I pt. milk 


Ingredients 


iqt. 
itsp 
ic.l 


Cream c 

tomatoes 
•. soda 
butter 


)f Tomato 


Soup 

\ c. flour 

3 tsp. salt 

1 tsp. white pepper 



I qt. milk 
Method : 

Stew the tomatoes slowly 15 minutes, 
hot. Combine with white sauce. 



Strain and add soda while 



Ingredients : 



I can corn 

I pt. w^ater 

I qt. milk 

I slice onion 



Purees 
Corn Soup I 



4 tbsp. butter 
4 tbsp. flour 
i^ tsp. salt 
pepper 



76 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Corn Soup II 

Ingredients : 

I can cornlet i tbsp. chopped onion 

I pt. water i c. flour 

I qt. milk 2 tsp. salt 

I c. butter i tsp. white pepper 

yolks 2 eggs 
Method : 

Cook the cornlet with the water 20 minutes. Cook the onion in the 
melted butter until brown, add flour, seasoning, and the milk gradually 
as for white sauce. Strain, add strained cornlet, combine mixtures, 
pour over the well-beaten yolks, and serve at once. 



Pea Soup 

Ingredients : 

I can peas ^ tsp. salt 

I qt. boiling water ^ tsp. sugar 

5 tbsp. butter pepper 

5 tbsp. flour I pt. milk 



Potato Soup 

Ingredients : 

3 potatoes I tbsp. flour 

I pt. milk or i tsp. salt 

1 pt. milk and water | tsp. white pepper 

2 tsp. chopped onion celery salt 

I tbsp. butter 2 tsp. chopped parsley 

Method : 

Boil potatoes until soft, drain ; scald milk and onion in a double 
boiler. Beat potatoes with a wire potato masher, add hot liquid, 
strain, and return to the double boiler. Make a white sauce, using 
this as liquid. Cook 5 minutes, and add the chopped parsley just 
before serving. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 



77 



Ingredients : 

1 qt. black beans 
4 qts. cold water 

2 tbsp. chopped onion 
2 tsp. salt 

\ tsp. pepper 
cayenne 



Black Bean Soup 



1 piece celery root 
\ tsp. mustard 

4 tbsp. butter 

2 tbsp. flour 

1 large lemon 

2 hard-cooked eggs 



Method : 

Wash the beans and soak them overnight in 2 qts. of cold water, 
drain and rinse thoroughly ; brown the onion in 2 tbsp. of the butter, 
put in with the beans, add the celery root, and 2 qts. cold water. 
Cook slowly until beans are soft, adding more water as it boils away ; 
rub through a strainer; add the seasonings and heat. Heat the 
remaining butter in a saucepan, add the flour, then the hot soup 
gradually. Cut the lemon and eggs in thin slices and serve with the 
soup. 



FOOD VALUES 
Baked Beans 













u 






1 ^ 


^ 




Material 


Oi 

& 

< 




2<« 

WE 




< 

el 

g2 


to 

< 2 
S8 


8 


LCIUM 

asCaO 
rams 


ta tn C 

g rt 2 








^0 




^0 


go 




CJ 


3^" 


wis 


^0 














$ 


U 


PhCJ 














u 






^-' 




Beans . . 


I C. 


1 88. 5 


42.41 


340 


112. 16 


650 


.0415 


.409 


2. II 


.013 


Salt pork . 


ilb. 


71-5 


1.34 


61.65 




560 


.0347 


.001 


.028 


.0002 


Onion . 


I slice 


17 


,02 


.003 


•15 


7 


.0018 


.008 


.016 


.0001 


Molasses . 


I tbsp. 


7.0 


.17 




4.83 


20 


.0009 


.02 


.02 


.0014 


Total, 






















cooked 


3^c. 


856 


43-94 


65.05 


117. 14 


1237 


.0789 


.438 


2.174 


.0147 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


ic. 


69.16 


2.74 


5.26 


9.46 


100 


.006 


•035 


•173 


.0012 



78 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Creamed Potato 



Material 


<! 




S j5 


U3 








H 

cS 

$ 


Calcium 

(Calc. as CaO) 

Grams 


Phosphorus 

(Calc. as P2O6) 

Grams 


^1 


Potato . 


2 C. 


291.6 


6.41 


.29 


54-65 


242 


.018 


-045 


-4 


.003 


Butter . 


2 tbsp. 


36.2 


.36 


30-77 




278 


.02 


.008 


• Oil 




Flour . 


2 tbsp. 


14-15 


1.58 


.014 


10.59 


50 


.0015 


.003 


.025 


.0002 


Milk . . 


I c. 


245-9 


8.II 


9-83 


12.29 


170 


.0225 


•4 


.51 


.0005 


Salt . . 






















Total, " 






















cooked 


she. 


575.3 


16.47 


40.7 


77.53 


740 


.062 


-456 


.946 


.0037 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


u. 


77.66 


2.22 


5.49 


2.71 


. 100 


.008 


.063 


.132 


-0005 



Cream of Pea Soup 



Peas . 


I can 


440 


15-84 


.88 


43.12 


242 


.15 


.096 


.605 


.0036 


Milk . . 


2 c. 


462.4 


15-25 


18.49 


23.12 


319 


.045 


.733 


.966 


.001 


Butter . 


2 tbsp. 


39 


-39 


33-15 




300 


-034 


.009 


.012 




Flour . 


2 tbsp. 


14 


1-57 


.14 


10.48 


50 


-0015 


.0034 


.024 


.0019 


Water . 


2 c. 




















Seasoning 






















Total, 






















cooked 


4c. 


1034 


31-05 


52.56 


71.82 


911 


-2307 


.8414 


1.607 


.0065 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


3 C. 


113 


3.10 


5-25 


7.18 


100 


.023 


.0841 


.06 


.0006 







Cream of Tomato Soup 


» 








Tomato . 


I c. 


240 


2.88 


-48 


9-6 


55 


.025 


.048 


-138 


.0093 


Butter . 


I tbsp. 


15-5 


.15 


13-17 




119 


.0123 


-0035 


-0047 




Flour . . 


I tbsp. 


7-5 


.79 


.07 


5-29 


25 


.0007 


.0017 


.0125 


.0001 


Milk . . 


I c. 


233-4 


7.14 


8.67 


11.83 


150 


.0225 


-358 


.454 


.0005 


Seasonings 






















Total, 




















cooked 


i|c. 


423.2 


10.96 


22.39 


26.72 


349 


.06 


.4112 


.6092 


.0099 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


|c. 


121.63 


3-13 


6.4 


7.64 


100 


.017 


.1176 


.1742 


.0028 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 



79 



Cream of Potato Soup 



Material 


» 

Hi 

(A 
< 








k 

§0 

< 




(A 

si- 


u 
$ 


Calcium 

(Calc. as CaO) 

Grams 


Phosphorus 

(Calc. as P2O6) 

Grams 


M Q 

^0 


Potatoes . 


3 


360 


7.9 


•36 


74.8 


300 


.012 


•057 


.498 


.0045 


Butter . 


2 tbsp. 


26 


.26 


22.1 




200 


.02 


.006 


.008 




Flour . 


2 tbsp. 


15 


1.58 


• 15 


II. 10 


50 


.001 


.0035 


.025 


.0002 


Milk . . 


.i§c. 


289 


9-5 


11.56 


14-45 


200 


.026 


.478 


.606 


.0006 


Water . 


^c. 




















Total, 






















cooked 


2JC. 


690 


19.24 


34-17 


100.35 


750 


•059 


•5445 


I-I37 


.0053 


lOo-Calorie 






















Portion 


3 C. 


89.7 


2.S 


4-44 


13-04 


100 


.007 


.0707 


.147 


.0006 



Cream of Lentil Soup 



Milk . . 


fc. 


162.34 


5-34 


6.54 


8.10 


112 


.018 


.25 


•34 


.0003 


Butter . 


3 tbsp. 


58 


.58 


49-71 




450 


.03 


.0135 


.018 




Lentils 


2 tbsp. 


28.7 


7-37 


.29 


16.93 


100 


.005 


.03 


.18 


.0024 


Cheese 


icu.in. 


22.8 


6.5 


8.17 


.004 


100 


.004 


.25 


.329 




Water . 


I c. 


225 


















Seasonings 






















Total, 






















cooked 


2ic. 


534.35 


19.79 


19.71 


25.03 


762 


.057 


.5435 


.867 


.0027 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


^c. 


70 


2.59 


2.59 


3-29 


icx) .0075 


.0706 


.112 


.0003 



Split Pea Soup 



Peas . 


|c. 


56.2 


13.8 


.56 


34.8 


200 


.012 


.08 


•50 


-003 


Onion . 


\ tbsp. 


6.5 


.10 


,019 


.64 


3 


.001 


.0036 


.0072 


.00003 


Butter . 


I tbsp. 


II. 5 


.11 


9.77 




88 


.01 


.0026 


.0035 




Flour . . 


l tbsp. 


5-6 


.62 


.0564 


4.19 


20 


.001 


.0014 


.01 


.00008 


Milk . . 


ic 


112. 2 


3-7 


4.48 


5.6 


77 


.01 


.1771 


-233 


.00026 


Seasonings 






















Total, 






















cooked 


ifc. 


263.5 


18.33 


14.88 


45.23 


388 


.034 


.2647 


.7.537 


•00337 


lOo-Calorie 






















Portion 


he 


67.71 


4-71 


3.82 


11.62 


100 


.0075 


.0661 


.1884 


.0008 



8o LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

References 

Vegetables 

Abel. Beans, Peas, and other Legumes as Food. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 121 (1900). 
Bailey. Cyclopedia of Agriculture and Cyclopedia of Horticulture. 
Barrows. Course in the Use and Preparation of Vegetable Foods. 

United States Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment 

Station, Bulletin 245 (1912). 
Beattie. Celery. United States Department of Agriculture, 

Farmers' Bulletin 282 (1917). 
Breazeale. Canning Vegetables in the Home. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 359 (1909). 
Buchanan. Household Bacteriology. 
CoRBETT. A Successful Method of Marketing Vegetable Products. 

Yearbook of Department of Agriculture for 191 2. 
CoRBETT. Tomatoes. United States Department of Agriculture, 

Farmers' Bulletin 220. 
De Rivaz, Evelyn. Little French Dinners. 
George. Vegetarian Cookery. 
Langworthy. Green Vegetables and Their Uses in the Diet. 

United States Department of Agriculture, Yearbook for 191 1. 
Langworthy. Potatoes and other Root Crops as Food. United 

States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 295 (1907). 
Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 
Parloa. Preparation of Vegetables for the Table. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 256 (1906). 
Iowa State College Agricultural Extension Department. Potatoes, 

Demonstration, Short Course Class Notes, Nos. 3 and 16. 
Sherman. Food Products. 
Sherman. Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. 
Thompson. Practical Dietetics. 
Wiley. Foods and their Adulterations. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 8 1 

Soups 

Deliee. Franco-American Cooking Book. 

Ellwanger. The Pleasures of the Table. An Account of Gastron- 
omy from Ancient Days to the Present Time. 

Farmer. The Boston Cooking School Cook Book. 

RoBBiNS. Creamed Soups and Vegetables. Oregon Agricultural 
College, Extension Service, No. 135. 



CHAPTER VI 
MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 

Milk is probably the most important article of diet used to- 
day, because of the large place it fills not only in the diet of 
children and invalids but also in the economic and hygienic 
nutrition of healthy adults. 

In qualitative composition milk is an aqueous solution of 
milk sugar, mineral matter, and albumin with fat globules held 
in suspension and casein together with mineral matter in a state 
of semi-solution. Other facts regarding the constituents of 
milk will be developed in the course of the experimental work 
included in this chapter. 

The quantities of the chief constituents average approxi- 
mately as follows : water, 87 per cent ; milk sugar, 5 per cent ; 
fat, 4 per cent ; proteins, t,.^ per cent ; ash, 0.7 per cent. Mar- 
ket milk may of course be somewhat less rich in one or more of 
the foodstuffs than this average, but nearly every state now has 
legal requirements governing the milk industry and setting at 
least a minimum standard for the product. In buying milk 
the sanitary quality should be carefully considered as well as 
the food value. See Leach's Food Inspection and Analysis, 
Chapter VII, Rosenau's The Milk Question, and Sherman's 
Food Products, Chapter III. 

Milk is the most important of all foods as a source of body- 
building material for growing children. While the great eco- 
nomic growth of the milk industry, the progress in the chemical 
and bacteriological study of milk, and the care given to the 
legal and sanitary control of the production and handling of 

82 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 83 

milk are all indications of a growing realization of the impor- 
tance of milk as a food, yet it is of interest to find that the great 
quantity of milk used as such in this country amounts on calcu- 
lation to only a little over a half a pint per day for every man, 
woman, and child, whereas the study of dietetics teaches us that 
adults should have at least as much milk as this and children 
a good deal more — "a quart of milk a day for every child " 
if possible. The study of milk cookery should therefore have 
as one of its main objects the development of a higher appre- 
ciation of milk as a food and the encouragement of its more 
liberal use in the diet, both as a beverage and in the greatest 
variety of cooked foods. 

EXPERIMENTS ON MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS^ 

Cream 

83. — Examine a bottle of milk obtained from a reliable dealer. 

a. Read the statements on the cap. 

b. Of what significance are they? 

c. What are the two layers in the bottle? 

d. Why is the yellow layer at the top? 

84. — a. Examine with the microscope a tiny drop of cream. 

b. Make a drawing of the fat droplets. 

85. — a. Divide a quart of cream into four cups: A, B, C, D. 

b. Heat A in a double boiler until a thick scum appears. 
Allow the cream to cool and then beat it with a Dover egg beater. 
(Keep B, C, and D for subsequent experiments.) 

c. Can this cream be beaten stiff ? 

d. What was the scum which appeared when the cream was 
heated ? 

86. — a. Whip B with a wire whisk until stiff. 

b. Beat c with a Dover egg beater until stiff. 

* A division in the recipes for milk and cheese has been made, but the experiments 
for milk and milk products have been considered together for purposes of compari- 
son and summary. 



84 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

c. Compare A, B, and C as to flavor, consistency, and 
volume. 

d. How do you explain differences noted ? 

87. — Beat D with a Dover egg beater until fat globules form 
masses and butter results. Drain off buttermilk and save for further 
experiments. 

Compute the per cent of butter obtained from a unit of cream. 

88. — Wash the butter in cold water until no more buttermilk 
appears. " Pat " out the water. 

a. Weigh the washed butter and divide it into two parts of 
equal weight. 

b. Add sufficient salt to one part to give it the usual salty 
flavor. 

c. Put both parts in the refrigerator for a few hours to ripen. 

d. Compare as to weight, flavor, and texture. 

Butter 

89. — Heat a teaspoon each of pure butter, renovated butter, and 
oleomargarine in separate tablespoons over a bunsen burner. 

Note the manner in which each melts and the appearance after 
melting. 

This is called the foam test for butter. Why should the butter 
boil quietly while the renovated butter and the oleomargarine sputter 
and crackle? 

90. — Place a tablespoon of each of the three samples used in 
Expt. 89 in each of three small beakers containing four tablespoons 
of sweet milk. Heat the beakers until the fats are melted, then 
place them in cold water and while the fat is still melted stir each 
vigorously with a splint of wood. Note the form the pure and 
renovated butters take and contrast with the condition of the oleo- 
margarine. 

Buttermilk 

91. — Prepare butter from sweet cream. Prepare butter from an 
equal volume of sour cream. Compare resulting butter as to flavor, 
texture, and quantity. (Keep the buttermilk for Expts. 92 and 93.) 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 85 

92. — a. Compare each buttermilk as to flavor and color. 

b. Use each in gingerbread. Is any perceptible difference 
noticed ? 

93. — a. Reaction of milk. Test fresh milk with delicate litmus 
paper and record results for comparison with tests to be made later. 
h. Compare the behavior of the two buttermilks from Expt. 91 
toward litmus paper with that just observed in the case of sweet 
milk and with each other. Is there any relation between the differ- 
ence here seen and that observed in making gingerbread (Expt. 92) ? 

Constituents of Milk 

94. — a. The presence of water and fat in milk has been suffi- 
ciently demonstrated in the above experiments. 

b. If a platinum or quartz dish is available, a little of the 
milk may be dried and burned to determine whether it yields ash. 

95. — a. Test milk for protein by means of the biuret ^ and xantho- 
proteic 2 reactions. 

b. Try heating some of the fresh milk to boiling. Does it 
contain a protein coagulable by heat like that of egg-white (page 109) ? 

96. — Acidulate another portion of the milk with acetic acid or 
vinegar, warm gently, and compare with the preceding test. Filter 
through wet filter paper and save the filtrate. Apply the xantho- 
proteic reaction 2 to the solid which remains on the filter paper. 

97. —Test a portion of the filtrate from Expt. 96 for the presence 
of sugar by means of the Fehling-Benedict test (page 13). 

What conclusion can be drawn from the result ? 
Do all sugars respond to this test ? 

98. — Apply the iodine test (page 13) both to a portion of the 
filtrate from Expt. 96 and to a separate portion of the whole milk. 

1 Biuret Reaction. If a few drops of copper sulphate solution are added to pro- 
tein, in solution, and then an excess of caustic potash added, a red to violet colora- 
tion is produced. 

2 Xanthoproteic Reaction. When nitric acid is added to protein (either in solu- 
tion or in solid form) a yellow color is produced which, on the addition of ammonia, 
becomes bright orange. 



86 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

What conclusions are justified as to the nature of the carbohydrate 
portion of milk? 

99. — Heat milk in double boiler. 
Strain the heated milk through a damp cheesecloth and test again 
for the xanthoproteic reaction. 

100. — Prepare 4 junket custards, using i c. sweet milk and ^ 
junket tablet dissolved in f tsp. cold water in each instance. Pro- 
ceed as follows : 

a. Add dissolved junket to cold milk. 

b. Add dissolved junket to warm milk. 

c. Add dissolved junket to milk and boil i minute. 

d. Add dissolved junket to cold milk. Allow a, b, and c 
to stand in room at room temperature. Put d in refrigerator. 

e. Compare results at end of 10 minutes. 

/. Which method has proven most satisfactory ? 

g. Why? 

h. What is junket ? 

101. — Prepare i qt. of junket according to the most successful 
method. After the mixture has stood for i hour, cut with a knife into 
small pieces. Note results. What is the yellowish liquid that appears ? 

102. — a. Strain mass prepared in Expt. 101 through wet cheese- 
cloth. 

b. Apply the following tests to residue and filtrate re- 
spectively : 

Biuret, page 85 
Coagulation on heating 
Xanthoproteic, page 85 
Fehling-Benedict solution, page 13 

c. What are your conclusions ? 

*Milk (Sour) 

103. — Have ready milk which has been sour i day, 2 days, 3 days. 

a. Test equal volumes of each with litmus paper. 

b. Neutralize each with a solution of baking soda, testing 
with litmus paper. 

c. Note the amount of soda required in each instance. 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 87 

104. — a. Heat equal portions of each specimen of sour milk in a 
double boiler. 

b. Note the clotting which appears. 

c. Which clots quickest and in largest quantity? 

d. To what is this due ? 

105. — (7. Add salt to each portion in double boiler in the propor- 
tion of 8 tsp. to I c. of sour milk. 

b. Note the effect. 

c. How do you explain the result ? 

106. — Strain the clotted masses from Expt. 105 through wet cheese- 
cloth and allow to hang undisturbed until filtrate no longer drips. 
Test as usual with : 

Biuret, page 85 
Xanthoproteic, page 85 
Coagulation on heating 
FehHng-Benedict solution, page 13 

107. — <7. Compare the cheese obtained in Expt. 106 with that 
made from sweet milk. 

b. Note the difference in consistency, texture, and flavor. 

c. To what is this due? 

108. — Test each specimen of sour milk with litmus paper. 

a. Which turns the paper quickest? 

b. What acid is present in sour milk? 

c. How does it originate ? 

(Leach, Food Inspection and Analysis) 

d. With the litmus paper still in the milk, add sufficient 
baking soda to neutralize the acid. Is a physical or chemical change 
produced ? 

e. What is the gas given off after the soda is added? 
/. In what food products is this principle applied? 

g. Test I c. of sour milk with litmus paper and determine 
how much soda it is necessary to add to neutralize the acid. 

//. Take an average of the results of the class and com- 
pare with the amount usually given in cook books. How does it 
compare ? 



88 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

109. — a. Test i c. of sweet milk with litmus and add sufficient 
vinegar to produce the same intensity of color as in 108, g. 

b. Neutralize a part of this milk with soda. 

c. Compare the amount of soda needed with 108, g. 

d. Prepare gingerbread, using the milk in 108, g in one in- 
stance and that in 109, a in the second instance. 

e. Compare the two products. Is one preferable to the 
other ? 

/. Repeat g and heat the milk until the curd separates 
out. Compare this curd with that of normally sour milk and also 
with the curd made with junket and sweet milk. 

g. What are the noticeable differences and to what are 
they due? 

h. What sources of sour milk and curd have we? 

Cheese 

Cheese has already been prepared with sweet and sour milk. 
Test now commercial cheese. 

110. — ^ Prepare three equal weights of American cheese, A, B, C. 
Heat A in a saucepan, B in a double boiler, and C in hot milk. Com- 
pare results. 

111. — Prepare two equal weights of American cheese, A, B. 
Cut into small pieces and put into equal volumes of warm milk. 

a. Continue heating A in a double boiler until cheese is 
melted. Examine consistency of mixture. 

h. Continue heating B in saucepan and allow milk to boil. 
Compare result with that in a. How do you account for the differ- 
ence in appearance, consistency, and difficulty in mastication? 

Absorption of Odors 

112. — Allow samples of butter, cream, sweet milk, and sour milk 
to stand in a compartment by themselves in the refrigerator. Arrange 
corresponding samples in a compartment already containing cooked 
onions or cooked cauliflower. 

Allow each to stand i day. Note taste and odor of each. 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 



89 



113. — Put \ tsp. of kerosene into a pitcher. Allow to stand i 
hour. Wash the pitcher thoroughly. Turn in i c. sweet milk- 
Allow this to stand i hour. Note taste and odor. 

Milk Desserts 
Junkets 



Ingredients 


Plain 


Coffee 


Chocolate 


Milk 

Sugar 

Vanilla 

Tablet 

Cold water 


iqt. 

3 tbsp. 
I tsp. 
I 
I tbsp. 


I qt. and i c. 
boiled coffee 

I 

I tbsp. 


I qt. (i oz. chocolate 
or 2 tbsp. cocoa — 
boil 5 min. with ^ c. 
of the qt.) 

I tsp. 

I 

I tbsp. 



General Method: 

Dissolve tablet in cold water. 

Heat milk to lukewarm temperature in a double boiler. 

Add sugar and stir until dissolved. 

Add dissolved tablet and pour into serving glasses. 

Let stand at room temperature until firm. 

Place in refrigerator until ready to serve. 

Garnish with whipped cream or fruit. 

Milk and Egg Desserts 

Custards 

General Rules: 

Scald the milk in a double boiler. Beat eggs slightly, add sugar 
and salt and the scalded milk gradually. A moderate temperature 
is necessary in cooking custards to prevent curdling. Cool cup cus- 
tards before turning out. 

Soft Custards 

Cook custard in double boiler, stirring constantly until mixture 
coats the spoon. Strain. Cool and flavor. 



90 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Baked Custards 

Strain uncooked custard into cups previously wet with cold water. 
Place in pan of hot water in moderate oven until firm. 

Test : A silver knife inserted in custard will come out clean when custard 
is firm enough. 

Steamed Custards 

Place cups in a steamer or in pan of boiling water. Place towel 
under cover to absorb moisture. 

^ . Caramel 

Ingredtents : 

I c. sugar I c. boiling water 

Method : 

Melt sugar in iron pan over a low flame. Move gently with a knife 
and occasionally change position of pan to prevent burning the 
sugar. When the sugar has melted to a brown sirup, add the boiling 
water and simmer a little longer. Strain. 

Caramel Custard I 

Prepare caramel and add it to the scalded milk. 
Note : The caramel is in the custard. 

Caramel Custard II 

Prepare caramel and divide it equally among the custard cups. 
Place a spoon in the cup and pour the custard slowly down it. This 
keeps the two from mixing. 
Note : The caramel is a sauce for the custard, when turned out. 

Custard 

Ingredients : 

1 pt. milk 4 tbsp. sugar 

2 eggs or 4 yolks | tsp. salt 

I tsp. vanilla 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 91 

Chocolate Custard 
^ oz. chocolate to i pt. milk 

Melt chocolate in a double boiler and add the scalded milk to it a 
teaspoonful at a time until smooth. The remainder may be added 
rapidly. 
Note : Follow directions carefully so the chocolate will not separate. 

Variations 

Floating Island 

Soft custard served in glasses with meringue on top. Garnish 
with jellies or cherries. 

Tapioca or Rice Custard 

Ingredients : 

\ c. rice or pearl tapioca f c. sugar 

2 c. milk \ tsp. salt 

2 eggs I tsp. vanilla 
Method : 

Cook soaked tapioca or rice in the scalded milk. Proceed as for 
plain custard. 

a. Cook in double boiler as a soft custard. 

h. Bake in buttered pudding dish as a baked custard. 

Bread Puddings 

Soak stale bread crumbs from inside of loaf in scalded milk 30 min- 
utes. Prepare custard with other ingredients. Bake in buttered 
pudding dish as a baked custard. 

Save whites of eggs for a meringue. 

Bread Pudding 

Ingredients : 

2 c. crumbs \ tsp. salt 

I qt. milk 2 eggs 

\ c. sugar grated nutmeg 

I c. raisins or currants 



92 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Queen of Puddings 

Spread a baked bread pudding with jam or jelly before placing 
meringue on top. 



Ingredients : 



Chocolate Bread Pudding 



2 oz. chocolate i tsp. vanilla 

and ingredients for plain Bread Pudding 

FOOD VALUES 
Baked Custard 



Material 


a; 

en 

< 


o 


S CO 


^0 


H 
< 

§0 


t/3 

1 

CJ 


u 


Calcium 

(Calc. as CaO) 

Grams 


Phosphorus 

(Calc. as P2O6) 

Grams 


^0 


Milk . . . 


2 C. 


443-2 


14.62 


17.7 


22.16 


306 


-045 


.70 


.92 


.001 


Eggs . . . 


2 


98.1 


13-14 


10.3 




145 


.06 


.087 


■348 


.0027 


Sugar . 


4 tbsp. 


51.2 






51-2 


20 


.007 








Salt . . . 


i\ tsp. 




















Nutmeg . 


i tsp. 




















Total, cooked 


4ic. 


574.3 


27.76 


28.02 


73-36 


471 


.112 


-787 


1.268 


.0037 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


I c. 


120.6 


5-82 


5.8 


15-4 


100 


.023 


-i6s 


.266 


.0007 



Rice Pudding with Eggs 



Cooked rice . 


|c. 


96.8 


2.71 


.10 


23.62 


106 


.0048 


.003 


.06 


.0003 


Milk . . . 


he. 


III. 7 


3-67 


4.46 


5-58 


77 


•Oil 


.177 


-234 


.0002 


Egg . . . 


1 
2 


28.5 


3.82 


2.99 




42 


.016 


.025 


.1 


.0008 


Sugar . 


I tbsp. 


13-8 






13-8 


55 


.002 








Vanilla 


Itsp. 


13- 








280 


.0022 








Total, cooked 


I c. 


214.9 


10.2 


7-55 


43 


.036 


.205 


•394 


.0013 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


ic. 


76.49 


3.06 


2.26 


12.9 


100 


.01 


.006 


.011 


.0003 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 93 

References 

Milk 

Atwater. Milk as Food. United States Department of Agricul- 
ture, Farmers' Bulletin 74 (1904). 

Buchanan, Household Bacteriology. 

Conn. Bacteria in Milk and its Products. 

Cunningham. The Production of Clean Milk. Ohio State Univer- 
sity, Agricultural College, Farmers' Reading Course (1913). 

Eckles. Dairy Cattle and Milk Production. 

Farrington and Woll. Testing Milk and its Products. 

Guthrie. Cream Separation. Cornell Reading Courses. Dairy- 
ing Series No. 5 (191 5). 

Harcourt. Food Value of Milk and its Products. Ontario Agri- 
cultural College. Toronto (19 14). 

Kelly. Medical Milk Commissions and Certified Milk. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, 

No. I (1913)- 

Lawson. Inexpensive Aids in Producing Sanitary Milk. The Mary- 
land Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 181 (1914). 

Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

MiLNER. The Use of Milk as Food. United States Department of 
Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 363 (191 1). 

Pearson. Facts about Milk. United States Agricultural Depart- 
ment, Farmers' Bulletin 42 (1906). 

Rogers. Bacteria in Milk. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Farmers' Bulletin 490 (191 2). 

Rogers. Direction for the Home Pasteurization of Milk. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, 
Circular 197 (191 2). 

RosENAU. Milk in its Relation to the Public Health. United States 
Public Health Service, Hygienic Laboratory, Bulletin 56. 

RosENAU. The Milk Question. 

Savage. Milk and the Public Health. 

Sherman. Food Products. 

Sherman. Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. 



94 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Sherman. Methods of Organic Analysis. 

SwiTHiNBANK and Neumann. Bacteriology of Milk. 

Van Slyke. Modern Methods of Testing Milk and Milk Products. 

Wing. Milk and its Products. 

Whitaker, Rogers, and Hunt. The Care of Milk and its Use in 

the Home. United States Department of Agriculture; Farmers' 

Bulletin 413 (1913). 

Butter 

Clevenger. Buttermaking. Ohio State University, Agricultural 

College, Farmers' Heading Course. 
Farrington and Meyers. A Comparison of Aniline and Anatto 

Butter Colors in Buttermaking. University of Wisconsin, 

Agricultural Experiment Station. 
Guthrie. Farm Butter Making. Cornell Reading Courses, vol. 3, 

No. 60, Dairying Series No. 4. 
Hastings. The Propagation of Pure Starters for Butter and Cheese 

Making. The University of Wisconsin, Agricultural Experi- 
mental Station. 
Patrick. Household Tests for the Detection of Oleomargarine and 

Renovated Butter. United States Department of Agriculture, 

Farmers' Bulletin 131. 
Rasmussen. a Study of Farm Buttermaking in New Hampshire. 

New Hampshire Agricultural Experiment Station, Durham, 

New Hampshire. 



CHAPTER VII 
CHEESE 

Cheese is made from milk or cream by coagulating the casein 
with rennet or lactic acid. Ripening ferments, seasonings, and 
coloring matter may be added. Cheese is divided into two 
main types: the hard cheeses such as Cheddar, Edam, Swiss, 
Parmesan, and Roquefort ; and the soft cheeses such as Brie, 
Camembert, Limburg, Neufchatel, Gorgonzola, and Stilton. 
Much of the larger part of the cheese made in this country is of 
the type of the Cheddar cheese and is known as American 
Cheddar cheese. The process of making Cheddar cheese is 
divided into several distinct steps as follows : (i) inspection of 
milk, (2) ripening of milk, (3) addition of color, (4) coagulating 
the milk, (5) cutting the curd, (6) stirring and heating the curd, 
(7) removing whey, (8) cheddaring the curd, (9) milling the 
curd, (10) salting and pressing, (11) ripening or curing the cheese. 
For full description of these steps see Sherman's Food Products j 
pages 89-94. 

The different varieties of whole milk cheese do not differ 
greatly from an average composition of about one third water, 
one third fat, and one fourth protein (the small remainder being 
mainly salt). The fat is in a finely divided state and is chem- 
ically the same as butter fat. The protein is more or less 
digested casein (some albumin). The ripening process changes 
the proteins not only to soluble proteins, but to proteoses, 
peptones, amino acids, and ammonia. The ash is high in cal- 
cium, phosphorus, sulphur, and iron and sodium and chlorine 
from the salting. Cheese is a very concentrated food, so should 

95 



96 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

be eaten in small quantities to avoid danger of irritation of the 
stomach. Cheese may be used interchangeably with meats 
and J5sh, and the time is coming when it will occupy a more 
prominent place in the dietary than it does at present. For- 
eign cheeses are expensive, but American cheese may be classed 
among the most economical of the high protein foods. 

Eggs with Cheese I 

Ingredients : 

3 hard-cooked eggs few grains cayenne 

I tbsp. flour I c. grated cheese 

I c. milk 4 slices toast 

\ tsp. salt 
Method I 

Make a thin white sauce with the flour and milk and seasonings. 
Add the cheese and stir until melted. Chop the whites and add them 
to the sauce. Pour the sauce over the toast, force the yolks through 
a potato ricer or strainer, sprinkle over the toast. 

Eggs with Cheese II 

Ingredients : 

4 eggs \ tsp. salt 

I c. or 4 oz. grated cheese few grains cayenne 

I c. stale bread crumbs 
Method : 

Break the eggs into a buttered baking dish or into ramekins and 
cook them in a hot oven until they begin to turn white around the 
edge. Cover with the mixture of crumbs, cheese, and seasonings. 
Brown in a very hot oven. 



Eggs with Cheese III 

Ingredients : 

I lb. cheese grated or i tbsp. chopped parsley 

cut into small pieces few grains nutmeg 

8 eggs ^ tsp. salt 



CHEESE 97 

Method : 

Beat the eggs slightly, mix them with the other ingredients, cook 
over a very slow fire, stirring constantly, so that the cheese may be 
melted by the time the eggs are cooked. 

Cheese Fondue I 

Ingredients : 

i| c. soft bread crumbs 4 eggs 

i| c. grated cheese i c. hot water 

^ tsp. salt 

Method : 

Mix the water, bread crumbs, salt, and cheese; add the yolks 
thoroughly beaten ; into this mixture cut and fold the whites of eggs 
beaten until stiff. Pour the mixture into a buttered baking dish 
and bake 30 minutes in a moderate oven. Serve at once. 

Cheese Fondue II 



Ingredients : 




i|^ c. hot milk 


I tbsp. butter 


i| c. stale bread crumbs 


4 eggs 


i^ c. grated cheese 


^ tsp. salt 



Method : 

Heat the milk in a double boiler, add the crumbs and allow the 
mixture to stand 15 minutes in hot water. Beat the yolks of eggs 
and mix thoroughly with the milk and crumbs. Add the butter, 
cheese, and salt. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites, pour into a but- 
tered baking dish and bake 30 minutes in a moderate oven. Serve 
at once. 

Cheese Fondue III 

Ingredients : 

i| c. bread crumbs i egg 

i§ c. warm milk 2 tbsp. butter 

i| c. cheese 8 crackers (warmed) 

seasoning 
Method : 

Allow the bread to soak in the warm milk 10 minutes. Add the 
butter and cheese to this mixture and when the cheese is melted, add 



gS LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

the eggs slightly beaten. Add the seasoning and allow the whole 
mixture to cook in a double boiler until thick. Serve at once on 
warmed crackers. 

Cheese Omelet I 

Cheese may be made into omelets in several ways. An omelet may 
be served with thin cheese sauce made in the following proportions : 

i^ tbsp. flour 
I c. grated cheese 
I c. milk 

This sauce may also be added to omelets in which boiled rice, minced 
meat, or some other nutritious material has been included. 

Cheese Omelet II 

Grated cheese may be sprinkled over an omelet before it is served. 

Cheese Omelet III 

Ingredients : 

yolks of 2 eggs salt and pepper 

2 tbsp. hot water whites of 4 eggs 

I c. grated cheese i tbsp. butter 

Method : 

Beat the yolks until lemon-colored and add the hot water and the 

seasoning. Beat the whites until they are stiff, and add the cheese. 

Cut and fold the two mixtures together. Proceed as for Foamy 

Omelet. 



Welsh 

Ingredients : 


Rarebit 


I 


I lb. cheese, grated 




cayenne 


I c. cream or milk 




I egg 


^ tsp. mustard 




2 tsp. butter 


^ tsp. salt 




dry toast 



Method : 

Put the cheese and milk or cream into a double boiler. Mix the 
mustard, salt, and cayenne. Add the egg and beat well. When the 



CHEESE 



99 



cheese is melted, stir in the mixture of dry ingredients and egg, then 
the butter, and cook until it thickens. Stir constantly. Pour it 
over hot toast. 



Welsh Rarebit II 



J tsp. mustard 
few grains cayenne 

1 c. milk 

2 eggs 



higredients : 

2 tbsp. butter 

I lb. soft milk cheese, cut 

in small pieces 
^ tsp. salt 

Method : 

Put butter in chafing dish and when melted add the cheese and 
seasonings ; as cheese melts, add milk gradually, stirring constantly ; 
then eggs beaten slightly. When eggs are cooked and mixture has 
thickened, serve on crackers or bread toasted on one side, rarebit 
being poured over untoasted side. A rarebit should be smooth and 
of creamy consistency, never stringy. 



f c. milk 

f c. stewed and 

strained tomatoes 
I lb. cheese 



Red Bunny 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. butter 
2 tbsp. flour 

1 tsp. soda 

2 eggs 

seasonings 
Method : 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and milk. When 
thoroughly cooked add the cheese cut in fine pieces, the eggs slightly 
beaten, and the seasonings. Let this mixture cook until the cheese 
is melted and the eggs cooked. Have ready toasted whole wheat or 
graham bread and when ready to serve add the soda to the hot tomato, 
stir this into the cheese mixture and serve at once. 



Ingredients : 

I qt. milk 

1 junket tablet 

2 tbsp. sugar 
yolks of 2 eggs 



Cheese Cakes 



few grains nutmeg 
3 tbsp. butter 
2 tbsp. currants or 
small raisins 



lOO LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Warm the milk and add the dissolved junket tablet. Let the 
milk stand until the curd forms, then break up the curd and strain 
off the whey. Add the other ingredients to the curd; line patty- 
tins with pastry, fill them with the mixture, and bake. 

Cheese Souffle with Pastry 

Ingredients: 

2 eggs I c. Swiss cheese cut 
f c. thin cream in small pieces 
salt, cayenne, and i c. grated cheese 

nutmeg 
Method : 

Add the eggs to the cream and beat slightly, then add the cheese 
and seasoning. Bake 15 minutes in a hot oven, in patty tins lined 
with puff paste. 

Cheese Custard 

Ingredients : 

I c. grated cheese yolks of 2 eggs 

\ c. cream or rich milk salt and paprika 

Method : 

Mix the cream and the cheese and heat until the cheese is melted. 
Remove from the fire and add the yolks of the eggs and seasonings. 
Bake in buttered ramekins. Serve with jelly or preserves. 

Scalloped Apples with Cheese 

Substitute riced cream cheese for butter in Scalloped Apples. 

Milk and Cheese Soup 

Ingredients : 

3 c. milk I c. grated cheese 
i^ tbsp. flour salt and paprika 

Thicken the milk with the flour, cooking thoroughly. When ready 
to serve, add the cheese and the seasoning. 



CHEESE 



lOI 



Vegetable and Cheese Soup 



2 tbsp. butter 
2 tbsp. flour 
i^ tsp. salt 
I c. scalded milk 



Ingredients : 

2 c. stock 

2 tbsp. finely chopped carrots 

I tbsp. chopped onion 

I blade of mace 

I c. grated cheese 
Method : 

Cook the vegetables a short time in one half of the butter, add the 
stock and the mace, boiling 15 to 20 minutes. Strain and add the 
milk. Thicken with flour cooked in the remaining butter. Just 
before serving, add the cheese and cook until it is melted. 



Cheese Loaf 

A cheese loaf is a mixture of grated cheese, bread crumbs, and 
chopped legumes or nuts. Vegetable stock is added to make of the 
right consistency to shape into a loaf. Bake in a moderate oven, 
basting frequently with butter and water. Spinach, lettuce, or beet 
tops may be substituted for legumes. 



Ingredients : 

I lb. cooked beans 



Bean Loaf 



lb. English dairy cheese 



Method (as above). 



Lima Bean Loaf 



bread crumbs 
salt and pepper 



Ingredients : 

2 c. cooked lima beans 
J lb. cream cheese 

Method (as above). 

Nut Loaf 

Ingredients : 

I c. grated cheese 

I c. chopped English walnuts 

I c. bread crumbs 

2 tbsp. chopped onion 
Method (as above). 



bread crumbs 
3 pimentoes 



I tbsp. butter 
juice of ^ lemon 
salt and pepper 



I02 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Spinach Loaf 

Ingredients : 

2 qts. spinach (cooked) salt 

I c. grated cheese bread crumbs 

I tbsp. butter 
Method (as above). 

Cheese with Tomato and Corn 

Ingredients : 

I tbsp. butter 2 c. grated cheese 

f c. corn I pimento 

^ c. tomato puree 2 egg yolks 

I tsp. salt I tsp. paprika 

Method : 

Heat the puree in a double boiler, add the butter, corn, salt, pa- 
prika, and pimento. When the mixture is hot, add the grated cheese; 
and when the cheese is nearly melted, add the egg yolks slightly beaten. 
Allow the total mixture to cook until thick. Serve on toasted bread. 

Italian Rice 

Ingredients : 

1 c. rice i tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. butter | c. grated cheese 

2 c. tomatoes 4 tbsp. chopped green pepper 

Method : 

Wash rice and cook in boiling water until soft. Melt butter in 
saucepan, add green pepper and sauter 5 minutes ; add cooked rice, 
tomatoes, and salt. Let cook until tomatoes are soft. Add grated 
cheese and continue cooking until cheese is melted. Serve at once. 

Turkish Pilaf 

Ingredients : 

^ c. rice if c. hot water 

I tbsp. butter salt 

I c. boiling water pepper 

I c. tomatoes 



CHEESE 103 

Method : 

Wash rice and brown in the butter. Add water and steam until 
water is absorbed. Add the tomatoes and cook until rice is soft. 
Season. A little grated cheese may be added. 

Cheese Balls 
Ingredients : 

i| c. grated cheese cayenne 

I tbsp. flour whites 3 eggs 

J tsp. salt cracker dust 

Method : 

Mix cheese with flour and seasonings. Beat whites of eggs until 

stiff and add to the first mixture. Shape in small balls, roll in cracker 

dust, fry in deep fat, and drain on brown paper. Serve with salad 

course. 

Cheese Straws I 

Ingredients : 

I c. grated cheese \ tsp. salt 

I c. fresh bread crumbs 5 tsp. pepper 



c. flour cayenne 



I tbsp. butter i tbsp. milk 

Method : 

Cream the butter, add flour, crumbs, grated cheese, and seasonings ; 
mix thoroughly ; add milk. Roll I inch thick, cut | inch wide and 
6 inches long. Bake until brown in a moderate oven. Serve with 
salad course. 

Cheese Straws II 

Roll out plain or puff paste until one fourth of an inch thick. 
Spread one half of it with grated cheese. Fold over the other half 
and roll out again. Repeat the process three or four times. Cut 
into strips and bake. Serve with soup or salad course. 

Cheese Gingerbread I 

Ingredients : 

I c. molasses 2 c. flour 

4 oz. cheese 2 tsp. ginger 

I tsp. soda h tsp. salt 
h c. water 



I04 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Heat the molasses and the cheese in a double boiler until the cheese 
is melted. Add the soda and stir vigorously. Mix and sift dry 
ingredients and add them to the molasses and cheese alternately with 
the water. Bake 15 minutes in small buttered tins. 

Cheese Gingerbread II 

Ingredients : 

\ c. molasses , i tsp. soda 

1 c. sugar 2 tsp. ginger 
4 oz. cheese ^ tsp. salt 

2 c. flour I c. water 

Method : 

Rub the cheese and the sugar together. Add the molasses. Mix 
and sift the dry ingredients and add them to the cheese mixture alter- 
nately with the water. 



FOOD VALUES 
Macaroni and Cheese 













Ui 






__ 








w 

(A 
P 


RP 


2^ 




< 
eg 




H 

I/) 




w i/i c 


12 « 

'^ g 

tn iri C 


16 


Material 


< 


1-1 cS 

^0 


S2 

CM 


^0 


w 2 






u 


Calc 

alc. a 

Gra 


HOSP] 

alc. a 
Gra 


^0 














$ 


U 


PlhCJ 














u 






^~' 




Macaroni . 


|c. 


42 


5-55 


•37 


29.12 


150 


.0127 


.012 


.144 


.0006 


Cheese 




ic 


24 


6.5 


8.6 


.07 


100 


.0125 


■25 


•329 


.0003 


Milk . 




3 C. 


150 


4.7 


6 


7-S 


100 


•015 


•239 


•303 


.0003 


Butter 




2 tbsp. 


39 


.39 


23-15 




300 


.002 


.009 


.012 




Flour . 




2 tbsp. 


16.8 


1.58 


.16 12.58 


50 


.0015 


.004 


.025 


.0002 


Bread crunibs 


|c. 


22 


1.80 


.26 11.59 


50 


.003 


.005 


•037 


.0002 


Total, cooked 


2 C. 


323 


20.58 


38.57 


60.86 


750 


.0477 


.519 


.850 


.0016 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion ^ . 


ic. 


71.99 


2.73 


5-12 


8.09 


100 


.0063 


.069 


•113 


.0002 



^ Also called Standard Portion (S. P.). 



CHEESE 



105 



Rice with Cheese and Tomatoes 













M 






^ 






Material 


^ 




2 =« 
si 


rn2 


S 

li 


J 


1 


LCIUM 

as CaO 
rams 


go-- 


si 




S 


^0 


£^ 





% 


^d 


$ 




Phos 

(Calc. 

G 


^0 


Raw rice . 


he 


100 


7-9 


.29 


78.6 


350 


.0218 


.01 


.19 


.001 


Tomatoes 


I c. 


230 


2.77 


.46 


9.24 


50 


.0231 


.043 


.125 


.0008 


Butter . . 


I tbsp. 


14 


.14 


11.9 




108 


.0109 


.003 


.004 




Cheese 


20Z, 


56.7 


16.3 


22.3 




250 


. 0310 


.623 


.82 


.0007 


Salt . . . 


I tsp. 




















Total 


2ic. 


524-1 


27.11 


34.95 


87.84 


758 


.0868 


.679 


I.I39 


.0025 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion ' . 


U. 


68.1 


3.58 


4.53 


11.59 


100 


.0112 


.089 


•15 


.0003 



References 



Cheese 



Buchanan. Household Bacteriology. 

Conn. Bacteria in Milk and its Products. 

DoANE. The Digestibility of Cheese. United States Department 

of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, Circular 166 

(1911). 
DoANE and Lawson. Varieties of Cheese: Descriptions and 

Analysis. United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau 

of Animal Industry, Bulletin 105. 
GiRONCi, M. Itahan Recipes, translated and arranged by. 
Langworthy and Hunt. Cheese and its Economical Uses in the 

Diet. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' 

Bulletin 487 (191 2). 
Larson and White. Dairy Technology. 
Marshall. Microbiology. 
Sherman. Food Products. 

1 Also called Standard Portion (S. P.)- 



I06 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

''"MaHng. "' ''"""• ^'^ '"^°" '^"'^ ^-"'- °f Cheese 
Wiley. Foods and their Adulterations 
Wing. Millc and its Products. 



CHAPTER VIII 
EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 

Eggs have been used for food from the earliest times to the 
present day. While those of other fowl are also eaten, hens' 
eggs are so far the most common that they will be understood 
when the term eggs is used — though most of the statements 
made would apply to the eggs of other fowl also. 

The nutrients of eggs are interesting in their nature and will 
be studied experimentally as described below. For statements 
of the quantitative composition see Leach's Food Inspection 
and Analysis, Chapter IX, and Sherman's Food Products y 
Chapter V. From the place of eggs in nature and from the 
results of nutrition experiments we know that the constituents 
of eggs are adapted to serve as material for the construction of 
muscle, bone, and blood. 

The best egg is naturally one strictly fresh. Newly laid 
eggs may be preserved by cold storage or water glass (sodium 
or potassium silicate). Other methods practiced to some ex- 
tent and more or less successfully are packing the eggs in saw- 
dust, salt, or lime, or coating the shell with lard, paraffin, or wax. 
Cold storage and the use of water glass are the best methods. 
Other methods are less effective and are apt to impart a dis- 
agreeable flavor. 

EXPERIMENTS 

114. — Determine: a. about how many unbroken eggs there are in 
a pound. 

h. how many eggs minus the shell there are in a pound. 

107 



Io8 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

c. how many lablespoonfuls in i whole egg : 

1. unbeaten. 

2. beaten. 

d. how many tablespoonfuls in the beaten yolk and white, 
respectively. 

115. — Examine with a hand lens a portion of egg shell. Note 
its porous condition. Examine an egg shell which has been im- 
mersed in water glass. How does this differ from that first examined ? 
Explain the difference. What is water glass? How does water 
glass preserve eggs? 

116. — Various other preservatives are used to keep eggs. Ex- 
plain the use of the following: 

lime lard 

paraffin sawdust 

vaseline cold storage 

Cooking of Eggs. Temperature and Time 

117. — For this experiment select saucepans of uniform size, shape, 
and material, using i pint of water in each case. 

a. boil egg rapidly for i minute "I have the water boiling 
h. boil egg rapidly for 3 minutes/ when the egg is immersed. 

c. put egg in water at 80° C, cover and let stand for 
10 minutes. 

d. put egg in cold water and bring to the boiling point. 

e. boil an egg for 10 minutes. 
/. boil an egg for 20 minutes. 

g. put an egg in water at 80° C, cover and allow to stand 
for 45 minutes. 

//. put an egg in water at boiling point, cover and allow 
to stand 45 minutes. 

118. — Arrange a repetition of the above experiment so that eggs 
will be ready to remove from shell at the same time. Remove 
egg from shell. Examine and compare yolks and whites as to tex- 
ture, ease of removing from shell, firmness of white, toughness of 
white. 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 109 

119. — Remove eggs from shell and cook as follows, using i pt. of 
water in each instance. Use first an iron frying pan, then an agate 
or enamel pan. Compare the results. 

a. Poach egg in hot water until yolk is coated. (Save the 

water.) 

b. Repeat, using i tsp. salt in water. 

c. Repeat, using i tsp. vinegar in water. 

d. Turn egg into boiling water, remove from bunsen burner, 
cover and let stand 2 minutes. 

c. Compare each result as to texture, firmness of yolk, 
taste. Save the water in each instance for the next experiment. 

120. — Examine the water used in Expt. 119, a, with the following 

tests : 

Bmrct, page S5 

Xanthoproteic, page 85 

Iodine, page i,^ 

Fehling-Benedict solution, page 13 

Filter a little of the water used in 119 and heat filtrate. 
Conclusions ? 

121. — Beat an egg white until stiff, fold in 3 tbsp. granulated 
sugar. Drop by spoonfuls on to a greased paper and bake in a slow 
oven until brown. Try to remove 2 of the meringue at once. Allow 
the remainder to stand until cold. Remove. Compare with those 
removed while warm. Explain the difference. 



Soft-cooked Egg 

Ingredients : 

I egg I c. boiling water 

Method : 

Place boiling water in a saucepan. Put unbroken egg carefully 
in saucepan, cover pan and let stand 5 minutes. 



Hard-cooked Egg 
Prepare as soft-cooked, but allow egg to remain in water 45 minutes. 



no LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Coddled Egg 

Butter a ramekin. Break an egg carefully into a saucer and slip 
into the ramekin. Place in a pan of boiling water and cook until 
the white is firm. 

Shirred or Baked Egg 

Prepare as coddled egg. Cook in a pan of water in the oven. 
Ramekins may be lined with seasoned buttered crumbs and egg 
covered with the crumbs. 

Poached Egg 

Rub the bottom of an omelet pan lightly with butter. Fill pan 
three fourths full of boiling water. Break an egg into a saucer and 
slip into the boiling water. Lower flame so the water will not boil, 
and allow egg to remain in the water 3-10 minutes. If the water does 
not cover the yolk, dip water over it carefully with a spoon until a film 
forms over yolk. Remove with a skimmer to a slice of buttered 
toast and garnish with parsley. 

Scrambled Eggs 

Ingredients : 

5 eggs i tsp. pepper 

^ c. milk I tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. butter 
Method : 

Beat eggs slightly, add seasonings and milk. Heat omelet pan, 
put in butter, and when melted pour in the mixture. Cook until 
creamy, stirring and scraping from the bottom of the pan. 

Omelets 

For omelets select large eggs. Use i tbsp. of liquid and | tsp. of 
salt for each egg. Never try to make an omelet using more than 4 
eggs, as mixture will brown before being cooked through. Keep an 
omelet pan especially for omelets and see that it is kept clean and 
smooth. 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES ill 

Foamy Omelet 

Ingredients : 

2 eggs 2 tbsp. milk or water 

\ tsp. salt cayenne or white pepper 

1 tsp. butter 

Method: 

Beat yolks of eggs until light and creamy; add seasonings and milk. 
Beat the whites until stilT, but not dry; cut into yolks. Heat an 
omelet pan, rub it with butter, pour in the mixture and spread it 
evenly on the pan. Cook over low flame. When set, put in hot 
oven for a few minutes to dry on top. Fold and serve at once. 

French Omelet 

4 eggs I tsp. pepper 

4 tbsp. milk | tsp. salt 

2 tsp. butter 

Method : 

Beat eggs slightly, enough to blend yolks and whites. Add milk 
and seasonings. Put butter in hot omelet pan; when melted, pour 
in mixture and place over a low flame. .Vs it cooks draw the edges 
toward the center with a knife until the whole is of a creamy con- 
sistency. Place on hotter part of range that it may brown quickly. 
Fold and turn on hot platter. 

Additions: 

Grated cheese, jelly, jam, chopped meats, peas, or parsley placed 
in omelet before folding, or a highly seasoned tomato sauce may be 
served around it. 

Egg-in-Nest 

Arrange stiffly beaten white of an egg on a slice of buttered toast. 
Make a depression in the center and drop in the unbeaten yolk. 
Sprinkle with salt. Brown in a moderate oven. 



112 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Scrambled Eggs with Tomato Sauce 

Ingredients : 

6 eggs 4 tbsp. butter 

ij c. tomatoes i slice onion 

2 tbsp. sugar \ tsp. salt 

I tsp. pepper 
Method: 

Simmer tomatoes and sugar five minutes ; brown butter and onion 
three minutes ; remove onion and add tomatoes, seasonings, and eggs 
slightly beaten. Cook as scrambled eggs. 

Eggs a la Goldenrod 

Ingredients : 

3 hard-cooked eggs | tsp. salt 

I tbsp. butter \ tsp. pepper 

I tbsp. flour 5 slices toast 

I c. milk parsley 

Method : 

Make a thin white sauce with butter, flour, milk, and seasonings. 
Remove yolks from hard-cooked eggs. Chop whites finely and add 
to the sauce. Cut four slices of toast in halves lengthwise ; arrange 
on platter, and pour over the sauce. Force the yolks through a 
potato ricer or strainer, and sprinkle them over the top. Garnish 
with parsley and remaining toast cut in points. 

" Liquid Glass " for Preserving Eggs 
Ingredients : 

I qt., " liquid glass " (a concentrated commercial solution of 

sodium silicate). 
9 qts. boiled and cooled water. 

Method : 

Mix the liquid glass and boiled water in a clean crock or stone jar. 
Carefully wipe strictly fresh eggs and with a spoon or other con- 
venient utensil place the eggs in the crock. The crock may be 
filled with eggs to the point of the liquid just covering the top layer. 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 



113 



Cover the crock with tin cover or stone cover. It does not need to 
be air-tight. When removing eggs from the crock, do so with a spoon. 
Wash them carefully and, if they are to be boiled, prick the shell. 
The pores of the shell are filled with the Hquid glass and as the air 
and water within the shell expand with the heat, the shell is likely to 
explode and thus spoil the egg as a " hard-cooked " product. 



FOOD VALUE 
Scrambled Egg 













» 






1 ^ 


^ 




Material 


< 


^0 


2<« 

tii Q 
2 

6.03 


'A 


h 


H < 
67 


H 

5 
$ 


Calcium 

(Calc. as CaO 

Grams 


Phosphorus 

(Calc. as P2O5 

Grams 


in 

ii 


Egg 


I 


45. 


4.72 




.0366 


.03Q 


•l,S7 


.0012 


Milk 


1 1 tbsp. 


22. 


.72 


.88 


1.09 


15 


.0022 


•034 


•04 s 


.0001 


Butter .... 


1 tbsp. 


7.8 


.07 


6.63 




60 


.0045 


.0018 


.0024 




Salt 






















Pepper .... 












142 










Total, cooked . 


f c. 


61,2 


6.82 


12.22 


1.09 


■o4^^ 


.0748 


.2044 


.0013 


loo-Calorie Portion 1 


ic 


42.8 


4-771 8.55 

1 


.76 


100 


•03 


•0523 


•143 


.0008 



SOUFFLES 

Souffles are combinations of cooked or uncooked mixtures and 
stiffly beaten whites of eggs baked in a moderate oven. They should 
be served immediately. A sauce improves fruit souffles. 

Whips are the same combinations unbaked and piled lightly in 
glasses for. serving. 

Essentials for Successful Souffles 
Good eggs. 

Stiffly beaten whites. 

Buttered molds, — buttered and sugared for fruit souffles. 

Very moderate oven. 

1 Also called Standard Portion (S.P,). 



114 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Souffles 

Varieties : 

I. Made with a white sauce : 

a. Meat, fish, rice, cheese. 

b. Custard. 

II. Made without a white sauce : 

a. Vegetable. 

b. Fruit. 

Fruit Souffle 

Ingredients : 

f c. pulp sweetened 3 egg whites 

salt 
Method : 

Fresh, dried, or canned fruit may be used. Drain sirup from 
canned fruit. Press pulp through a strainer and add to the stiffly 
beaten whites. Use a Dover beater and continue beating until very 
light. Place in buttered, sugared molds in pan of warm water. 
Bake in a moderate oven until firm. 

Custard Souffle 

Ingredients : 

3 tbsp. butter i c. scalded milk 

I c. flour 4 eggs 

I c. sugar I tsp, vanilla 

Method : 

Melt butter, add flour, and gradually hot milk ; when well thick- 
ened pour on yolks of eggs beaten until thick and lemon-colored, and 
mixed with sugar; cool, and cut and fold in whites of eggs beaten 
stiff and dry. Turn into buttered pudding dish, place in a pan of 
warm water, and bake in a moderate oven until firm. 

Lemon Souffle 

Ingredients : 

Yolks 4 eggs I c. sugar 

Grated rind and juice i lemon whites 4 eggs 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 115 

Method : 

Beat yolks until thick and lemon-colored, add sugar gradually 
and continue beating, add the lemon rind and juice. Cut and fold 
in whites of eggs beaten until dry. Bake as Custard Souffle. 

Vegetable Souffle 

Wash, peel, and mash vegetables as in preparing mashed potatoes. 
Moisten with milk or cream. Fold in the beaten yolks and stiffly 
beaten whites. Bake as Custard Souffle. 

Com and Cheese Souffle 

Ingredients : 

I tbsp. butter i c. chopped corn 

I tbsp. chopped green pepper i c. grated cheese 

1 c. flour 3 eggs 

2 c. milk I tsp. salt 

Method : 

Melt the butter and heat the pepper in it for 2 minutes. Add 
the flour, and stir the milk in slowly. When the white sauce is thick- 
ened, add the .corn, cheese, yolks of eggs, and seasonings. Cut and 
fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Bake as Custard Souffle. 

Meat Souffle 

Ingredients : 

I c. thick white sauce ^-i c. cooked meat, poultry, 

i~3 eggs or fish 

Method : 

Mix meat with warm sauce. Season highly. Cool and fold in 
stiffly beaten yolks and stiffly beaten whites. Bake as Custard 
Souffle. 



Ingredients : 


Cheese 


Souffle 


2 tbsp. butter 




few grains cayenne 


3 tbsp. flour 




J c. grated Old EngHsh or 


^ c. scalded milk 




Young America cheese 


1 tsp. salt 




yolks 3 eggs 




whites 


3 eggs 



Ii6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Melt butter, add flour, and, when well mixed, add scalded milk 
gradually. Then add salt, cayenne, and cheese. Remove from 
fire. Add yolks of eggs beaten until lemon-colored. Cool mixture 
and cut and fold in whites of eggs beaten until stiff and dry. Bake 
as Custard Souffle. 

EXPERIMENTS WITH DEEP FAT FRYING 

122. — a. Prepare potato chips by the following methods : 

Raw potato sliced very thin. 
Parboil potato and slice very thin. 
Raw potato soaked in ice water 20 minutes. 
Raw potato soaked in salt solution (2 tsp. salt to 2 c. 
ice water) 20 minutes. 
In each case dry the potato carefully before immersing in the fat 
or oil. 

h. Prepare deep fat, using the following fats and oils: 

lard cottonseed oil 

crisco peanut oil 

olive oil corn oil 

Arrange utensils and fats and oils so that the heating may begin at 
the same time. Note initial temperatures and length of time re- 
quired for the medium to reach the proper temperatures for deep fat 
frying. Test constantly with a slice of raw unsoaked potato, and 
when each has reached the required temperature fry samples of the 
potato prepared in a separately in each medium. Note the tem- 
peratures of each fat or oil, the length of time required for frying 
each potato, and the character of the product. 

123. — If a thermometer of sufficient range is available, deter- 
mine the temperature at which each of the above fats shows 
evidence of being decomposed by heat. What is the evidence in 
each case? 

In a recent study by Blunt and Feeney {Journal of Home Eco- 
nomics, Vol. VII, page 535) the temperatures at which certain fats 
begin to give off visible fumes are reported as follows : 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 1 17 

Cottonseed oil (Wesson) 233° C. 

Snowdrift 232° C. 

Crisco 231° C. 

Leaf lard 221° C. 

Butter fat 208° C. 

Leaf lard (heated 5 hours) 207° C. 

Bulk lard 194° C. 

A much-used lard 190° C. 

Olive oil 175° C. 

Peanut oil I 162° C. 

Peanut oil II 149° C. 

Coconut oil 136° C. 

How do your results compare with these? Where results differ, 
is the difference attributable to differing conditions of experimenta- 
tion or to variation in the material tested ? 

124. — a. Prepare doughnuts, using the recipe in the book. Roll 
them to uniform thickness and cut with the same cutter. 

b. Arrange the following fats and oils in utensils of uniform 
size and shape and begin heating at the same time : 

Fats : 

lard olive oil 

^ lard, ^ crisco peanut oil 

crisco corn oil 

beef drippings mutton drippings 

c. Note the initial temperatures of each fat or oil, and test- 
ing constantly with the doughnut mixture, find the proper temper- 
ature for each medium for an uncooked flour mixture, 

d. Fry doughnuts in each fat and oil. Note the flavor of 
the product, the amount of fat absorbed, the color. Allow samples 
of each cooked doughnut to remain in a tin box and note the rapidity 
with which each becomes dry and hard. 

125. — a. Prepare rice croquettes. Shape croquettes, using ap- 
proximately the same amount of mixture in each croquette, measur- 
ing in level tablespoons. Fry croquettes in each of the above fats 
and oils immediately after using them for doughnuts. Note the 



Il8 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

flavor of the croquettes, the absorption of odor of doughnuts, the 
color, crispness of the crust. 

b. Summarize your conclusions as to the appropriateness 
of each fat or oil as a frying medium. 

126. — Using the optimum temperatures for frying for each fat 
or oil, test the frying of a piece of bread. Note the number of seconds 
required by each fat to brown the bread. Does it prove the usual 
statement, '' 40 seconds required for browning a piece of bread is 
sufficient for browning a cooked mixture — as croquettes ; 60 sec- 
onds' is required for cooking and browning an uncooked mixture "? 

127. — Cut up in small pieces, weigh, and sauter equal quantities of 
boiled potato in unit quantities of each of the fats and oils. Weigh 
again and determine which fat is most easily absorbed by the potato. 

128. — From your correlated reading and experiments what do you 
conclude as to the wholesomeness of deep fat frying or sauteing of 
food as a method of cooking? 

Croquettes 

Croquettes are made with a base of meat, fish, egg, cheese, nuts, 
rice, beans, or other vegetables. These need to be combined with 
either white sauce, egg, starchy vegetables as potato, rice, cereals, 
or crumbs. 

The crumbs : 

Use crumbs from outside of loaf for first coating, use crumbs from 
inside of loaf for second coating. 
Season crumbs before using. 
Cracker crumbs are not desirable as they give a " pasty " crust. 

The egg: 

The whole egg is preferable. Add water equal to volume of egg. 
Beat slightly. 
If white alone is used, add to each white \ tbsp. oil, \ tbsp. water. 
If yolk is used alone, add \ tbsp. cold water to each yolk. 

Note : The white alone gives a tough crust ; the yolk gives a tender crust. 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES HQ 

The fat Jor frying: 

The fat should be unburned lard, or crisco, free from particles of 

previous frying. 

Use a fiat-bottom frying kettle, keep an iron gas spreader over the 
gas jet, and do not allow fat to bubble to rim of kettle. 

Test' fat, timing the- browning of a piece of bread. Fry croquettes 
made with previously cooked mixtures about 40 seconds. Fry 
croquettes made with uncooked mixture 60 seconds. 

Drain croquettes on absorbent brown paper. Croquettes may be 
reheated in the oven or double boiler. 



Rice Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

\ c. rice \ tsp. salt 

2-3 tbsp. milk T^ tsp. pepper 

1 egg cayenne 

2 tbsp. butter 2 tbsp. chopped parsley 

Method : 

Boil rice. Add milk, butter, seasonings, and beaten egg. Cook 
in a double boiler and cool. Form into balls, roll in sifted crumbs, 
shape, dip in egg, and reshape. ChiU. Fry in deep fat. 



Potato Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

2 c. hot riced potatoes cayenne 

2 tbsp. butter few drops onion juice 

\ tsp. salt yolk I egg 

\ tsp. pepper i tsp. finely chopped parsley 

\ tsp. celery salt milk if necessary 

Method : 

Add ingredients in order given to the potatoes. 
Proceed as for Rice Croquettes. 



I20 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Cheese Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

3 tbsp. butter i c. cheese cut in small cubes 

I c. flour ^ c. grated Parmesan cheese 

f c. milk. J tsp. salt 

yolks 2 eggs paprika 

Method : 

Make a white sauce of flour, butter, seasonings, and milk. Add 
beaten yolks and cheese. Cool. Proceed as for Rice Croquettes. 



Nut and Raisin Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

I c. stale bread crumbs 2 egg yolks 

I c. milk salt 

I c. chopped nut meats pepper 

I c. chopped raisins 

Method : 

Soak bread in milk until soft. Add nuts, seasonings, beaten yolks, 
and raisins. Proceed as for Rice Croquettes. 



Chicken Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

3I c. chopped chicken i tbsp. parsley 

onion juice 2 tsp. lemon juice 

Make i pt. of very thick cream sauce : 

I pt. cream and milk i^ tsp. salt 

^ c. butter ^ tsp. white pepper 

I c. flour I tsp. celery salt 

cayenne 

Method : 

Add the sauce to the chopped chicken and seasonings. Cool. 
Proceed as for Rice Croquettes. 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 121 

Beef and Rice Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

I c. chopped beef I tsp. pepper 

^ c. rice (cooked) cayenne 

1 tsp. salt tomato sauce 

Method : 

Mix beef and rice, add salt, pepper, and cayenne. Cool. Proceed 
as for Rice Croquettes. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Veal or Lamb Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

2 c. chopped cold cooked veal cayenne 

^ tsp. salt few drops onion juice 

I tsp. pepper yolk i egg 

I c. thick white sauce or stock 

Method : 

Mix ingredients in order given. Cool. Proceed as for Rice 
Croquette^. 

Score Card 

Croquettes 

General appearance 30 

Uniformity (10) 

Color (10) 

Size and shape (10) 

Mixture 50 

Consistency (40) 

Flavor (10) 

Crust 20 

Freedom from excessive fat (10) 

Thickness (5) 

Tenderness (5) 

100 



122 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

References 
Eggs 

Atwater and Bryant. Composition of American Food Materials. 
United States Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment 
Stations, Bulletin 28. 

Barrows. Eggs : Facts and Fancies Compiled about Them. 

Demonstrations. Eggs and Milk. Iowa State College of Agri- 
culture, Extension Department, Short Course Class Notes, No. 4. 

Langworthy. Eggs and their Uses as Food. United States De- 
partment of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 128. 

Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

Maurer. Bacteriological Studies on Eggs. Kansas State Agri- 
cultural College Experiment Station, Bulletin 180 (191 1). 

Remington. A Study of Commercial Eggs. United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Bulletin 51 (1914). 

Sherman. Food Products. 

Thompson. Studies in Egg Marketing. University of Minnesota, 
Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 132 (1913}. 

TiBBLES. Foods: Their Origin, Composition and Manufacture. 

Wiley. Foods and their Adulteration. 

Cooking in Fats 

Blunt and Feeney. The Smoking Temperatures of Edible Fats. 
Journal of Home Economics, vol. VII, page 535 (December, 
1915). 



CHAPTER IX 
MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 

Meats are derived from the flesh of domestic and wild ani- 
mals chiefly if not exclusively of herbivorous habits, and from 
fowls. The most important kinds are beef (ox), veal (calf), 
mutton (sheep), lamb (young sheep), pork (pig), ham and 
bacon (pig) , venison (deer) . Poultry includes chickens, turkeys, 
ducks and geese, guinea hens, and game birds. 

The quality of meat is dependent on the condition of the 
animal from which it is derived. Of all the foods, meat is the 
one most subject to conditions rendering it unwholesome or even 
dangerous. Certain diseases of animals are communicable to 
man through eating of the flesh, and there is danger that through 
lack of cleanliness in slaughterhouses and exposure to dust 
and flies, meat may be infected with Bacillus enteritidis which 
produces poisonous products which are not destroyed by cook- 
ing and which are now considered to be the commonest cause 
of food poisoning — so-called '' ptomaine " poisoning. 

The United States Department of Agriculture, under the 
meat inspection law of 1906, provides for the inspection of 
establishments which send products into foreign or interstate 
commerce. There are, however, many establishments which 
do business entirely within one state and they may or may not 
have local inspection. For the need of state inspection see 
United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal 
Industry, Circular 154 (1908). 

In meat as it is purchased we have bone, fat, and the flesh, 
consisting of the muscle of the animal with its connective tissue. 

123 



124 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

The color of the meat should be clear and bright, not purplish. 
There should be very little odor, and the meat should be firm 
and elastic to the touch. 

Meat is valuable chiefly for its protein, fat, and ash constit- 
uents. The protoplasm of the muscle cells consists mainly 
of proteins partially dissolved in 3 to 4 times their weight of 
water. The fat is deposited partly in the cells and partly in 
the connective tissue between the cells, where it forms in layers. 
Fat does not alter the composition of the actual protoplasm 
since it neither dissolves in nor absorbs water. When an ani- 
mal is killed, the muscular protoplasm coagulates (rigor mortis), 
but without essential change in the amount or distribution of 
moisture, protein, or fat. Muscle protein and gelatin difi^er 
conspicuously in their content of amino acids. It is now known 
that the inadequacy of gelatin alone as protein food is due to 
the absence of certain amino-acid radicles, particularly trypto- 
phan and tyrosin. Special interest attaches to the '' extrac- 
tives " of meat, to which its flavor is largely due, and to the 
purins which give rise to uric acid in the body. Among the 
extractives creatin is most conspicuous. The purins exist 
'^ free " (as in the form of hypoxanthin, adenin, guanin) and 
*' bound " as constituents of the nucleoproteins. 

Cold storage, drying, canning, and the application of preserv- 
ative substances are the principal means of preserving meats. 
Salt, sugar, vinegar, and wood smoke are condimental as well 
as preservative in their properties, and there is no restriction 
upon their use. Saltpeter maintains the red color of meat and 
preserves it. Boric acid and borax, which when used are 
employed purely for their preservative effect, and sulphites 
are not permitted under the present United States meat in- 
spection law. 

For fuller discussion of composition, nutritive value, preser- 
vation and inspection of meat, read Sherman's Food Prod- 
ucls, Chapters VI and VII. 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 125 

MEAT EXPERIMENTS 

129. — Examine a shin of beef for fat, connective tissue, tendons, 
ligaments, blood vessels (veins and arteries), bone tissue, and muscles. 

Prepare round steak for the following experiments by grinding 
through meat grinder. 

130. — a. Mix 2 tbsp. meat and i c. cold water. Let stand i hour. 

h. Mix 2 tbsp. meat and i c. cold water and \ tsp. salt. 
Let stand i hour. 

c. Mix 2 tbsp. meat and i c. cold water and i tbsp. vine- 
gar. Let stand i hour. 

d. Mix 2 tbsp. meat and i c. warm water and \ tsp. salt. 
Let stand i hour. 

e. Mix 2 tbsp. meat and i c. boiling water. BoU i minute, 
and let stand i hour. Compare results. In which instances is most 
color and flavor extracted ? Explain these phenomena. 

131. — Remove as much muscle and fat as possible from a shoulder 
of veal. Crack the bone in several places. Place in cold water to 
cover, adding ^ tsp. salt to each pint of water and let simmer for 6 
hours. Remove the bone, strain the liquid through a wet cheesecloth, 
and put in a cold place to cool. Let the stock remain in ice box 
overnight and then observe change in consistency. (Keep for Expt. 
132.) 

a. Note the layer of fat on surface covering the jelly under- 
neath. Could the small amount of fatty tissue left on the bone 
have furnished enough fat to form such a layer ? 

b. What was the source of the fat? 

132. — To a small portion of the jelly from Expt. 131 apply the 
following tests : 

a. Biuret, page 85. 

b. Xanthoproteic, page 85. 

c. Fehling-Benedict, page 13. 

d. Iodine, page 13. 



126 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

133. — Note the color and flavor of the jelly. Why is it lighter 
colored and lacking in flavor? What kind of meat is added to soup 
stock for color and flavor? Why? 

134. — Rub a piece of tough round steak with a small amount of 
baking soda. Allow it to stand | hour and then pan-broil. Repeat, 
using vinegar or lemon juice. Broil. Compare as to flavor, texture, 
ease of cutting with silver knife, and mastication. How do you 
account for the differences observed ? 

135. — Again prepare pieces of steak, A and B, as in Expt. 134. 
Put A in a hot frying pan, B in a cold frying pan. Turn each as soon 
as seared on one side. Compare as to texture, flavor, and amount 
of gravy left in pan. 

Conclusions. 

136. — Cut bacon into slices A, B, and C — 

A cut very thin "i 

B cut moderately thin > weigh each 

C cut thick J 

Fry each to the following stages: rare, medium, and crisp. Weigh 
the amount of fat left in pan in each case. How much is lost? 

137. — Use slices cut as in A, B, C. Broil and compare with 
products in Expt. 136. Which method of preparing bacon is best? 
Why? 

138. — a. Prepare a meat stew in both the pressure and fireless 
cooker. 

b. Compare the thoroughness of cooking, length of time 
required, flavor. 

c. Compute the saving in time, labor, and fuel. Note the 
temperature of each cooker. 

d. What are the advantages of the pressure and the fireless 
cookers over the coal or gas stove? 




•»^'.- 

if'4'f^^^ 



1. Keck. 

2. Chuck. 

3. Ribs. 

4. Shoulder clod. 
6. .Fore shank. 

6. Brisket. 

7. Cross ribs. 

8. Plate. 

9. Navel. 

10. Loin. 

11. Flank. 

12. Rump. 

13. Round. 

14. Second cut round. 

15. Hind shank. 



^I(.h*s 




Figure i. — Cuts of Beef (U. S. Dept. Agriculture). 
127 



128 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 




H/A/O quart£:r 

ffump 

/ fPi/mp 
/^ou/7c/:ru//?p & s/?a/?/c of/^ 

3-/3 /?ou/?£/ ^As'O'/rs. 
/4Z /?ot//7c/s/&a'/r, /as/ct/A 
/S /<r?ucA/e ^oop/?o/7&. 
/6 Po/- /xxsf'SA 

/7,/ffSoup So/7e'S. 
/S //ocA" soap Sone. 

2 [Vea^e -^o/ye s/r/o//? s/soAr. 
3,4 /?ou/7£/-^/7e ^/r/o/osAs'a/r. 

d /y/p-do/?c por/<:^rA>ouse ^s/et^A 
3-/3 py^u^f/- po/'/e'r/?ousG' s/e-a/c, 
/6-/8 C/^A s/e-a/es. 



2 SM^. 


2 S^/'S: /o(^ P/^> rvasA 

3 7<^& ff^"^ /?/A roasA 

4 6^.^ /P/.d' roasA 


<:/yc/o/< ^ 

/ S^.^ /?/6 roas/. 
2-9 C/puc/r sMc^A^. 
/0-/3 /^o/ roc^^/s. 
/4 C/oc/. 
/S A/ec:/r. 


/ 
2 
3,4 


Sr/sP<^A 


POPP^rSHA/VM- 

2 A(y?c^cPAe soi^ Axy?G; 
3^ -Soup 4i>o/?es. 



^ecr/< 



Figure 2. — Side of Beef (U. S. Dept. Agriculture). 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 



129 




^ 




.!4 



..:3 

. • J . 

• ^ 3 ^ -s 

J^ 2 3 © OS 

U 3 O *i o 

» ,ta ^ o »-< 

^ O c/3 (Ji| « 

,.; ci eo -• »o 



a 

Q 



p^ H^ P4 ►:; W - 
«> t- 00 c> o ^ 

"3 
u 



I30 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 




MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 



131 





4^ 

a o v ^ S 






^ 



i-i 
o 



u 



o 



1^2 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

SOUPS 

Soups may be divided into two main classes, meat soups and 
vegetable soups. Those made from meat obtain their flavor 
from extractives which are stimulating, but have almost no food 
value. Vegetable soups usually have a higher nutritive value, 
since the pulp of vegetables used as flavoring or thickening is 
commonly served as a part of the soup. 

Stock Soups 

Stock soups are made from beef, veal, mutton, fish, or poultry 
separately or in combination. Left-overs, meats or vegetables, may 
be used alone or with fresh meats to make stock. They often im- 
prove stock by imparting delicious new flavors. 

Bouillon^ lean beef; delicately seasoned, usually cleared. 
Consomme, two or three kinds of meat ; highly seasoned, al- 
ways cleared. 
Brown stock, beef; highly seasoned with vegetables, spices, and 

herbs. 
White stock, veal or chicken ; delicately seasoned. 
Old-fashioned stock, thickened with vegetables. Some fat re- 
mains in this soup. 

' Soup Accompaniments 

Flour pastes, plain and fancy Croutons 

Vegetables, cut in plain and fancy shapes Cooked cereals 

Fritter batter, forced through a strainer and fried Royal custard 

Other Uses for Soup Stock 

Gravies Sauces 

Seasoning for meats Aspic jelly 

Preparation of combination soups as Creole, Mongole 

Meat left from soup making is tasteless, but contains about as 
much protein as fresh meat. It may be seasoned, mixed with a sauce 
and made into the following " Left-over " dishes: 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 



133 



Croquettes 
Minced on toast 
Meat pie 
Warmed in gravy- 



Hash Creamed on toast 

Souffle Scalloped 

Cottage pie Casserole with vegetables 
Salad or rice 



Brown Soup Stock 

Ingredients : 

6 lbs. shin of beef (f lean 

meat, J bone and fat) 
3 qts. cold water 
^ tsp. peppercorns 
6 cloves 
^ bay leaf 



3 sprigs thyme 
2 sprigs parsley 
carrot 



turnip 

onion 

celery 



^ c. each cut in dice 



I spng marjoram 



Method : 

Wipe beef and cut the lean meat in inch cubes. Brown J of meat 
in marrow from bone. Add the water to the remaining f meat, the 
bone and fat, and let stand 30 minutes. Add browned meat and heat 
gradually to boihng point. Remove scum as it rises. Cover and 
simmer 6 hours. Add vegetables and seasonings. Simmer i^ 
hours longer ; strain and cool as quickly as possible. 

,-.,,, To Clear Soup Stock 

Method : 

Remove fat from stock while cold. Allow white and shell of i 
egg to I qt. stock. Beat white slightly, break shell in small pieces 
and add to stock. Boil 2 minutes. Remove scum and strain 
through double thickness of cheesecloth. If more seasonings are 
necessary, add as soon as stock has lost its jelly-like consistency. 

Chicken Soup 



Ingredients : 

i^ qts. chicken stock 

^ bay leaf 

I tsp. peppercorns 
Method : 

Simmer stock and seasonings ^ hour. Strain. Add the rice and 
flour pastes, previously cooked in 2 c. boiling water in a double boiler. 



2 tbsp. rice 
2 tbsp. noodles 
2 tbsp. vermicelli 



134 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 

I c. cubed carrots 
I c. cubed turnips 
I c. cubed celery 
cubed potatoes 
chopped onions 



Vegetable Soup 



2 C. 
I C. 



3 qts. water 

1 c. butter 

2 tbsp. flour 
I tbsp. parsley 
I tbsp. salt 

I tsp. pepper 
Method : 

Cook all the vegetables except potato and onion in 6 tbsp. of butter 
ID minutes. Add the potato and cook 2 minutes, the onion and 
water and cook ^ hour. Mix 2 tbsp. of butter with the flour and 
add the first mixture slowly and the seasonings. Cook ^ hour longer 
and add the parsley. 



Ingredients : 


Mongole Soup 


I qt. brown stock 


10 allspice berries 


I qt. tomatoes 


6 cloves 


1 onion sliced 


I bay leaf 


I sprig parsley 


J tsp. celery salt 


I c. butter 


1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 


I c. flour 


^ tbsp. vinegar 



Method : 

Cook stock, tomatoes, onion, parsley, spices for 30 minutes. Brown 
butter, add flour and, gradually, the above mixture. Bring to the 
boiling point. Strain, add Worcestershire sauce and vinegar. 



Creole Soup 

Ingredients : 

I qt. brown stock 

1 pt. tomatoes 
3 tbsp. chopped green peppers 

2 tbsp. chopped onion 
I c. butter 
I c. flour 



salt 

pepper 

cayenne 

2 tbsp. grated horseradish 

I tsp. vinegar 

I c. macaroni rings 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 135 

Method : 

Cook pepper and onion in butter 5 minutes. Add flour, stock, 
tomatoes. Simmer 1 5 minutes. Strain, rub through a sieve and sea- 
son highly with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Just before serving, add 
horseradish, vinegar, and macaroni previously cooked and cut in rings. 

MEATS 

Tender Cuts 
Roasting 

Wipe, trim, tie, or skewer meat into shape. Place on a rack in a 
pan and place pieces of fat from the meat over it. Rub meat over 
with salt and dredge meat and pan with flour. 

Place in the hottest part of oven to sear the outside and brown the 
flour; then remove to a lower shelf and reduce the temperature; 
baste meat every ten minutes until done, unless a covered roaster is 
used. 

Time-table for Roasting 

Beef — rare 8-10 minutes per lb. 

Mutton 15 minutes per lb. 

Veal 20 minutes per lb. 

Pork 30 minutes per lb. 

Chicken until joints separate easily 

Turkey — 10 lbs 3 hours 

Fillet of Beef I 

The tenderloin of beef is known as the fillet. 

Trim into shape a fillet of beef weighing about four pounds, re- 
moving tendinous portions and veins. Tie and skewer this into a 
pear-shaped piece. Lard the top, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and 
dredge with flour. Cover the bottom of a small dripping pan with 
cubes of salt pork. Set a trivet on top of pork, and place the meat 
on the trivet ; allow the meat to roast from 20-30 minutes in hot 
oven, basting it frequently. 

Serve with gravy made from fat in pan, flour, and hot water. 



136 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Fillet of Beef II 

Ingredients : 

I fillet of beef i stalk of celery 

I small onion 4 cloves 

I small carrot 2 bay leaves 

Method : 

Remove all the membranes and excess of fat from the fillet. Cut 
strips of larding pork 3 inches long, | inch wide, and | inch thick. 
Chill the strips in ice water. Lard the upper side of the fillet, slice 
the onion, carrot, and celery and place them with the cloves and bay 
leaves in the bottom of the pan. Place the fillet on the vegetables, 
season with salt and pepper, and cover with pieces of butter. Dis- 
solve I tsp. salt in I c. boiling water and pour into the pan. Roast 
in a hot oven for 30 minutes. Baste frequently. Serve with mush- 
room sauce, if desired. 

Stuffed Flank Steak or " Mock Duck " 

Ingredients : 

1 flank or round steak suet 

dressing (see below) 
Method : 

Wipe meat, spread with dressing, roll and tie, or skewer. Place 
suet on top and roast i hour, or until tender. 

Dressing for Flank Steak 

Ingredients : 

2 c. bread crumbs i tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. butter | tsp. pepper 

1 tbsp. parsley | tsp. poultry seasoning 

juice of I onion if desired 

Brown Gravy 

Ingredients : 

2 c. boiling water or ^ milk I c. flour 
salt i c. fat 

pepper 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 137 

Method : 

Remove all but I c. of the fat from roasting pan. Place over fire, 
add flour and stir until well browned, then add water slowly; boil 
5 minutes. Season and strain. 



Broiling 

Remove extra fat from meat. Grease the broiler with some of the 
fat. Place broiler close to flame to sear meat, then remove to lower 
part of broiUng oven to finish cooking, turning often. Season with 
butter, salt, and pepper. 

Pan-Broiling 

Heat an iron pan very hot. Remove extra fat from steak or chops. 
Sear meat on both sides, then turn frequently until cooked as desired, 
using a knife and fork for turning. Five minutes is necessary for 
lamb chop or steak one inch thick. Season with butter, salt, and 
pepper. 

Broiled Lamb or Mutton Chop 

Wipe chops, remove superfluous fat, and place in a broiler greased 
with some of the mutton fat. In loin chops flank may be rolled and 
fastened with a small wooden skewer. Broil over a clear fire, turning 
every ten seconds for the first minute, that surface may be well 
seared, thus preventing escape of juices. After the first minute, 
turn occasionally until well cooked on both sides. 



Broiled Fillet of Beef 

Cut slices about two inches thick from fillet. Shape in circles. 
Place the circles on greased broiler and broil over hot coals from 
4-6 minutes, turning them every 10 seconds. Serve on hot 
platter ; garnish with shces of broiled tomato and brown mushroom 
sauce. 



138 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Hamburg Steak 

Ingredients : 

I lb. round of beef i tsp. onion juice 

I tsp. salt I tbsp. butter 

I tsp. pepper i tbsp. parsley 

Method : 

Shape into cakes and pan-broH. 

Pan-Broiled Chops 

Chops for pan-broiling should have flank and most of fat removed. 
Wipe chops and put in a hissing, hot frying pan. Sear on both sides, 
then turn frequently until cooked as desired. Drain on brown paper, 
put on hot platter and spread with small amount of butter and 
seasonings. 

Breaded Mutton Cutlets 

Ingredients : 

8 Frenched chops, cut thin ^ tsp. salt 

I tbsp. butter | tsp. pepper 

4 tbsp. flour I c. cream 

^ c. chopped ham 
Method : 

Make a white sauce of the above ingredients. When thoroughly 
cooked add the finely chopped ham, mix thoroughly and set aside to 
cool. Broil the chops. Season each chop with salt and pepper, 
and cover on both sides with a layer of the sauce. Allow them to 
stand on a buttered plate until firm, then dip in egg and crumbs and 
fry in deep fat until brown. Serve with Cuban or tomato sauce. 



Veal Cutlets I 

Cut a slice from the leg or fillet of veal into pieces for serving. 
Dredge with salt, pepper, and flour ; brown in bacon or salt pork fat. 
Remove from pan. Put 2 tablespoons of flour in the pan ; let brown ; 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 139 

add 1 1 cups of broth or water. When it boils, add the cutlets, cover 
and simmer | of an hour, or until the cutlets are tender. 



Veal Cutlets II 

Use slices of veal from leg cut | inch thick. Wipe, remove bone 
and skin, then cut in pieces for serving. The long, irregularly-shaped 
pieces may be rolled and fastened with small wooden skewers. 
Dip in seasoned crumbs, egg and crumbs; place in a pan with butter, 
lard and water, cover and cook until tender in a moderate oven. 30 
to 40 minutes is required. 

Veal Loaf 

Ingredients: 

3 lbs. lean veal (chopped) 2 tbsp. lemon juice 
\ lb. salt pork (chopped) i tbsp. salt 

6 crackers (ground) \ tbsp. pepper 

4 tbsp. cream onion juice 

Method: 

Mix ingredients, pack in a bread pan, smooth evenly on top, brush 
with white of egg, and bake slowly three hours, basting with pork 
fat. Prick frequently while baking so that pork fat may be absorbed. 

Sweetbreads 

Remove from paper as soon as received from market, plunge into 
cold water and allow to stand i hour. Drain. Place in boiling, 
salted water and add i tsp. lemon juice or vinegar. Cook slowly 
twenty minutes ; again drain and plunge into cold water. Free 
from pipe and skin, salt if necessary, and serve as desired. 

Broiled Sweetbreads 

Parboil and cut in halves crosswise. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and broil 5 minutes. Serve with creamed butter to which 
has been added a little lemon juice. 



I40 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Creamed Sweetbreads 

Ingredients : 

1 c. cream or rich milk | tsp. salt 

2 tsp. butter 2 tbsp. flour 

Method : 

Parboil sweetbreads and cut into § inch cubes. Blend flour and 
a little cold milk to make a smooth mixture. Scald cream in double 
boiler, add the flour mixture and cook thoroughly. Just before 
serving, add the prepared sweetbreads, salt, and butter. Serve hot 
on toasted circles of bread and garnish with parsley, or use as a 
filling for Swedish Timbales or Croustades. 

Bacon I 

Place thin sHces of bacon (from which the rind has been removed) 
closely together on a fine wire broiler ; place broiler over dripping- 
pan and bake in a hot oven until bacon is crisp and brown, turning 
once. Drain on brown paper. 

Bacon II 

Remove rind from bacon and parboil until slightly puffed. Place 
in hot frying pan and fry until a light brown, turning often and 
removing fat from pan as it tries out. The bacon should be crisp 
and flaky. 

Tough Cuts 

Pot Roast of Beef 

Select a piece of four to six pounds from the rump or round. Wipe 
with a dampened cloth and sear all of the surface in a hot frying pan. 
Place in saucepan, add i cup of boiling water, cover closely and cook 
slowly until very tender. Sprinkle with salt when nearly done. 
Add water if necessary, but only enough to keep meat from burning. 
Add water to make a gravy thickened with i| tsp. flour to i c. 
liquid. 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 141 



Beef Stew 

'redients : 




3 lbs. round of beef 


3 carrots 


water to cover 


I onion 


6 potatoes 


salt 


flour 


pepper 



Note : i . Salt should be added in the proportion of ^ tsp. ; pepper | tsp., and 
flour 4 tsp. to I qt. liquid. A fireless cooker is convenient for 
stews. 

Method : 

Cut beef in pieces, cover with water, bring to boiling point and 
simmer 3 hours, or until meat is tender. Add diced vegetables i hour 
before meat is cooked. Remove vegetables and meat and thicken 
the liquid. Boil 5 minutes and return meat and vegetables to the pan. 

Note : 2. Serve with dumplings made like emergency biscuit with shorten- 
ing omitted. Drop by spoonfuls on top of stew, cover, and 
steam until done, then cook three minutes uncovered. 



Beef Broth 

Ingredients : 

\ lb. round of beef i c. cold water 

salt 

Method : 

Wipe meat, remove fat, and cut meat in pieces. Add cold water 
and let soak 15 minutes. Put in pan of cold water. Heat water 
slowly to 150 degrees F. Cook 2 hours. Strain and season. Reheat, 
skim off fat with spoon and paper. In reheating, be careful not to 
coagulate the albumin. 

Beef Juice 

Select a piece of meat from the rump or upper round. Wipe, re- 
move fat, cut in pieces, heat in a double boiler until juice flows. 
Squeeze out the juice by means of a press, lemon squeezer, or potato 
ricer. Serve at once in a colored glass. 



142 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

• Left-over Meats 

Meat Cakes 

Ingredients : 

2 c. cold roast beef i egg 

5 c. crumbs 2 tsp. melted butter 

seasoning 

Method]: 

Shape into oval cakes and brown in butter. 



Meat Pie 

Ingredients : 

2 c. chopped roast beef i c. mashed potatoes 

gravy seasoning 

Method : 

Combine ingredients except potatoes. Place in a buttered baking 
dish and cover with maShed potato. Brush with beaten egg. Bake 
until potatoes are slightly browned. 



Browned Hash 

Ingredients : 

1 c. meat 4 tbsp. fat 

2 c. mashed potatoes salt and pepper 
^ c. boiling water onion juice 

chopped parsley 

Method : 

Put the mixture into a frying pan in which i tbsp. of fat has been 
heated. Spread smoothly ; cook over moderate heat so it will brown 
slowly and not burn. Cook about one half hour and do not stir. 
Fold like an omelet. 

The same mixture may be made into small cakes f inch thick and 
browned in the same way. 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 143 

Casserole of Rice and Meat 

Ingredients : 

2 c. cooked lamb i tbsp. chopped parsley 

I tsp. salt I egg (may be omitted) 

\ tsp. pepper | c. fine crumbs 

I tsp. onion juice 4 c. boiled rice 

stock 

Method : 

Season meat and mix with crumbs and beaten egg; add enough 

stock to make it pack easily. Line a mold with 3 c. rice, fill with 

the meat ; cover with remainder of rice, cover tightly and steam 45 

minutes. Serve with Cuban sauce. 

Casserole of Beef 

Cut cold roast beef and steak alone or in combination in i inch 
cubes; there should be one quart. Put in a casserole dish and add 
2 c. brown sauce or roast beef gravy, ^ c. celery, and | c. carrots cut 
in cubes, i onion thinly sliced, i c. canned tomatoes, i tsp. Worces- 
tershire sauce, ^ tsp. salt, and | tsp. pepper. Cover and bake one 
hour ; then add i c. peas, beans, or mushrooms, canned or fresh, i c. 
potato balls, previously cooked in boiling salted water 10 minutes. 
Serve from casserole. 

Casserole of Veal 

Ingredients : 

I lb. veal 3 c. stock 

3-4 small onions i small piece salt pork 

^ c. cubed carrots i small piece suet 

^ c. cubed onions 6 tbsp. flour 

I stalk celery kitchen bouquet 

8 potato balls seasonings 

Method : 

Brown the vegetables and meat in tried-out salt pork. Make a 
brown sauce with flour and stock. Pour over the meat and vege- 
tables in a casserole. Bake one hour. 



144 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 

2 c. lamb 

2 tbsp. butter 

3 tbsp. flour 
^ tsp. salt 
cayenne 



Souffle of Lamb 



I tsp. kitchen bouquet 

I c. stock 

I c. cream or milk 

I c. crumbs 

I tsp. parsley 



3 eggs 
Method : 

Prepare sauce, add meat, crumbs, and seasonings. Add the well- 
beaten yolks, and fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Bake in 
moderate oven until light. 

Royal Scallop 

Ingredients : 

I lb. ham 3 tbsp. flour 

3 hard-cooked eggs 3 tbsp. butter 

parsley i pt. milk 

2 c. buttered crumbs 
Method : 

Scald a blade of mace with the milk, and strain. Make a white 
sauce of the butter, flour, and hot milk. Chop ham and eggs, add 
parsley and white sauce. Prepare as any scalloped dish. Bake in 
hot oven until crumbs are brown. 



Meat Sauces 

Brown Sauce 

Ingredients : 

I tbsp. chopped onion 
I tbsp. chopped carrot 
I sprig parsley 
I sprig thyme 
piece bay leaf 

Method : 

Cook the vegetables and herbs in the butter until brown ; add the 
flour (an extra tbsp. is used as flour loses its thickening quality to 



2 tbsp. butter 

3 tbsp. flour 
I tsp. salt 

I tsp. pepper 
I c. brown stock 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 145 

some extent when changed to dextrin) and brown. Add the stock 
gradually. Strain before using. 

Brown Mushroom Sauce 

To I c. of brown sauce add § c. canned button mushrooms, whole 
or cut in halves. Fresh mushrooms must be cleaned, pulled, browned 
in butter or simmered in water until tender, before they are added to 
the sauce. 

Mushroom Sauce 
Ingredients : 

drippings from fillet i pt. stock 

2 tsp. butter i pt. cooked mushrooms 

4 tsp. flour I tsp. Worcestershire sauce 

salt and pepper 

Method : 

Heat the butter and drippings until brown, add the flour and then 
the stock gradually. Strain and add the mushrooms. Cook 5 
minutes. Add Worcestershire sauce, salt, and pepper. 

Cuban Sauce I 

Ingredients : 

1 pt. tomatoes | tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. sugar I c. flour 

1 c. lamb stock I c. butter 

Method : 

Cook first two ingredients until tomatoes are soft, strain and add 
stock. IVIelt butter, add flour, and when browned add liquid gradually. 

Cuban Sauce II 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. chopped ham i| c. stock 
4 tbsp. flour I c. catsup 
4 tbsp. butter | tsp. salt 

Method : 

Cook ham in the butter until browned. Proceed as for White Sauce. 



146 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Horseradish Sauce 

Ingredients : 

3 tbsp. grated horseradish cayenne 

I tbsp. vinegar \ c. cream (whipped) 

\ tsp. salt 

Method : 

Mix first four ingredients. Fold in the cream. 

Spanish Sauce for Steak 

Ingredients : 

I c. catsup I tsp. Worcestershire sauce 

Method : 

Thicken with flour, add i c. mushrooms, and i tsp. horseradish. 

Score Card 

Roast of Meat 

General appearance 30 

Compactness (10) 

Form (10) 

Color (10) 

Meat 70 

Flavor 

Retained (25) 

Seasoning (10) 

Degree of Cooking (10) 

Tenderness developed by Cooking (25) 

100 

GELATIN 

Commercial gelatin is obtained from the skin, ligaments, and 
bones of sound animals. Gelatins made in the kitchen are 
obtained from the tissues, ligaments, and bones of young ani- 
mals or fowl. Gelatin as a food cannot meet the entire protein 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 147 

requirement, since it is lacking certain animo-acid radicles, 
the most important being tryptophan, but this lack may be 
offset by using with gelatin other foods such as milk or cream 
whose proteins are rich in tryptophan. Gelatin is an excellent 
medium for using or disguising milk, eggs, or fruit and may thus 
play a very important part in the diet. 

GELATIN EXPERIMENTS 

In these experiments gelatin used for desserts will be considered. 
See meat experiments, also. 

139. — Have at hand samples of various gelatins. Use each 
gelatin as follows : 

a. I tsp. gelatin and | c. hot water. 

b. I tsp. gelatin and j c. boiling water. 

c. I tsp. gelatin and j c. cold water. 
In which is the gelatin most soluble? 
Does it dissolve in cold water? 

140. — Use one of the dissolved gelatins to make the following tests : 

Biuret, page 85. 
Xanthoproteic, page 85. 
Fehling-Benedict, page 13. 
Iodine, page 13. 
Coagulation on boiling. 

Note : It will hardly be necessary to test each gelatin for the above re- 
actions. 

141. — Make three solutions A, B, C, using non-acidulated gelatin 
(i tsp. gelatin soaked in i tbsp. cold water, add ^ c. boiling water). 

Boil A for 5 minutes. Set on ice in mold. 

Boil B for 10 minutes. Set on ice in mold. 

Boil C for 15 minutes. Set on ice in mold. 

Which is most desirable? What has happened to the gelatin? 

142. — Make four solutions, A, B, C, D, as in Expt. 141. 
Put A on ice in mold. 



148 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

To B add I c. lemon juice. Put on ice in mold. 

To C, add 2 tbsp. fresh pineapple juice or 4 tbsp. pineapple pulp. 
Thoroughly mix and put on ice in mold. 

To D add 2 tbsp. fresh pineapple juice which has been boiled for 
2 minutes. Thoroughly mix and put on ice in mold. 

What do you observe in B, C, D? How do you account for the 
failure of the gelatin to solidify in B and C ? 

Compare the consistency of A and D. Hqw do you account for 
the delicacy of D ? Beat D with a Dover egg beater until foamy. 
What gives it this appearance ? 

Have the class divided so that all brands of gelatins are 
used. Compare results. 

Make a table showing the proper amount of : gelatin, liquid, 
fruit juice, sugar. 

Gelatin Desserts 

General Rules 

Fill molds with cold water and let stand. 

Soak gelatin in cold water to soften it. 

Add the boiling liquid to the softened gelatin to dissolve it. 

Add sugar to this mixture while hot to dissolve the sugar. 

Strain fruit gelatins through a cheesecloth before cooling. 

Cover gelatin mixtures while cooling to protect from dust. 

Varieties 

1. Fruit jellies : Mold after straining; when firm turn 

Lemon jelly out on serving dish. Serve with soft 

Orange jelly custard or whipped cream. 

2. Fruit jellies with white Cool until sirupy. Add stiffly beaten 

of egg : egg white and beat until firm enough 

Snow pudding ; Sponges to mold. 

3. Fruit jellies with cream : Add whipped cream when sirupy. 

Bavarian creams 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 



149 



Custard jellies : 
Spanish cream 
Macaroon cream 

Charlottes : 



Add stiffly beaten white to custard jelly. 
After straining, beat occasionally while 

cooling. Mold when begins to thicken. 
Jellies with the whip from thin cream. 
Add the whip when the mixture begins 

to thicken. 





Fruit Jellies 




Ingredients : 


Orange 


Prune 


Lemon 


Gelatin . . 
Cold water . 
Boiling liquid 


2 tbsp. 
i| c. water 


2\ tbsp. 
he. 

\ lb. prunes and 
liquid to make 


2 tbsp. 

he. 

I c. water 


Sugar . , . . 
Fruit juice . . 


I c. 

i^ c. orange juice 

juice I lemon 


2 c. 
I c. 
\ c. lemon juice 


h c. lemon juice 


Ingredients : 


CoJ'ee 


Wine 




Gelatin . . 


2 tbsp. 


I tbsp. 

\c. 

juice I lemor 
jfifee \ c. wine 




Cold water . 
Boiling liquid 
Sugar . 


. . fc. 

. . I c. water 

. . ^ c. 




Fruit juice . 


2 c. boiled c( 


I, juice h orange 



Fruit : When orange or lemon jelly begins to thicken, add sliced 

bananas, cherries, pieces of cooked pineapple, nuts, and orange sections. 

Fruit jellies with whip : Fill glasses \ full and let stand until firm. 



Cool a small portion of the jelly until sirupy. 
and place on top of glasses. 



Whip until frothy 



Sponges 

Ingredients : Pineapple 

Gelatin 2 tbsp. 

Cold water ^ c 

Boiling water 

Sugar . 

Pineapple juice .... 

Egg whites 3 

. Shredded pineapple . . . 



Chocolate 



2h tbsp. 



ic 


|c. 


ic. 


I oz. chocolate and 2^ c 




scalded milk 


|c. 


6 tbsp. 


fc. 


i tsp. salt 


3 


3 whole eggs 


h can 


I tsp. vanilla 



150 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Snow Puddings 

Ingredients: Lemon 

Gelatin 2 tbsp. 

Cold water \ c. 

Boiling water i c. 

Sugar f c. 

Lemon juice 2 c. 

Orange juice 

Egg whites 3 



Orange 

2 tbsp. 
ic 

I c. 
4 C. 

3 tbsp. 
|c. 



Spanish Creams 

Ingredients: Plain 

Gelatin 2 tbsp. 

Cold liquid \ c. milk 

Scalded milk 25 c. 

Egg yolks 3 

Sugar \ c. 

Salt i tsp. 

Vanilla i tbsp. 

Egg whites 3 

Macaroons 



Macaroon 



2 tbsp. 
\ c. water 
2 c. 



Jc. 
i tsp. 

3 

I c. crumbs 





Bavarian Creams 




Ingredients : 


Cofee 


Grape 


Orange 


Gelatin . . . 


i\ tbsp. 


if tbsp. 


I tbsp. 


Cold water 


ic. 


2f tbsp. 


^c. 


Boiling liquid 


^ c. coffee 


I c. grape juice 


1 c. water 


Sugar . . . 


ic. 


I c. 


I c. 


Fruit juice 




4 tbsp. lemon 


I c. orange juice 






juice 


5 lemon 


Cream . . . 


i^ c. (whipped) 


i| c. (whipped) 


I c. (whipped) 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 



151 







Charlottes 










Russe 


Orange 


Strawberry 


Caramel 


Chocolate 


Cofee 


Gelatin. . . . 


li tbsp. 


if tbsp. 


2 tbsp. 


I5 tbsp. 


1 1 tbsp. 


I J tbsp. 


Cold water . . 


ic. 


ic. 


§c. 


^c. 


^c. 


ic. 


Boiling liquid 


3 c. cream 


5 c. water 


5 c. water 


I c. water 


5 c. cream 


h c. coflfee 


Sugar .... 


5 c. pow- 
dered 


I c. 


I c. 


I c. cara- 
melized 


!c. 


ic. 


Thin cream (whip 














from) . . . 


she. 


3 c. 


3 c. 


3 c. 


3 c. 


3 c. 


Flavoring . . . 


li tsp. 


I c. orange 


2 c. straw- 


I tsp. 


I oz. 






vanilla 


juice 
3 tbsp. 
lemon 
juice 


berry pulp 
I tbsp. 
lemon 
juice 


vanilla 


choco- 
late 
I tsp. 
vanilla 





Note : The cream left after removing the whip may be used for other pur- 
poses. 

Score Card 



Gelatin Desserts 



General appearance 

Container 

Form 

Color 

Appearance 

Garnish 



40 



(5) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 

(5) 



Gelatin mixture 

Density (10) 

Flavor (40) 

Imperceptibility of gelatin (10) 



60 



100 



References 

Atwater. Poultry as Food. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Farmers' Bulletin 182 (1903). 

Atwater and Bryant. The Composition of American Food Mate- 
rials. United States Department of Agriculture, Office of Ex- 
periment Stations, Bulletin 28 (Revised). 

Carver. The PickHng and Curing of Meat in Hot Weather. Tus- 
keegee Institute, Experiment Station, Bulletin 24 (191 2). 



152 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Cook. Bouillon Cubes : Their Contents and Food Value compared 
with Meat Extracts and Homemade Preparations of Meat. 
United States Department of Agriculture, Bulletin 27 (1913). 

Edelmann. Textbook of Meat Hygiene. 

Green. How to Cook Meat and Poultry. 

Grindley. Studies of the Effect of Different Methods of Cooking 
upon the Thoroughness and Ease of Digestion of Meat. United 
States Department of Agriculture. Office of the Experiment 
Stations, Bulletin 193 (1907). 

Hall. Market Classes and Grades of Meat. University of Illinois, 
Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin No. 147. 

Hall and Emmett. Relative Economy, Composition and Nutri- 
tive Value of the Various Cuts of Beef. Illinois Agricultural 
Experiment Station, Bulletin 158 (191 2). 

Langworthy. The Guinea Fowl and its Use as Food. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 234 (1905). 

Langworthy and Hunt. Mutton and its Value in the Diet. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 526 

(1913)- 
Langworthy and Hunt. Economical Use of Meat in the Home. 

United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 

No. 391 (Corrected 1910). 
Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

LiGHTON and Douglas. The Meat Industry and Meat Inspection. 
Mitchell. Flesh Foods. 
Pennington. The Handling of Dressed Poultry a Thousand Miles 

from the Market. Yearbook of the Department of Agriculture 

for 1912. 
Sherman. Food Products. 
Sprague. a Precise Method of Roasting Beef. University of 

Illinois, Bulletin 419 (1907). 
Wiley. Foods and their Adulterations. 

Wiley and Bigelow. Preserved Meats. United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 13, Part 

10. 
White. Meat. Ohio State University, Agricultural College Home 

Makers' Reading Course (191 2). 



CHAPTER X 
POULTRY 

In selecting poultry see that the flesh is firm, that there is a 
fair amount of fat underneath the skin, that the latter is whole 
and of a clear yellow color, and that the odor is good. Chickens 
and fowls have certain characteristics which make them read- 
ily distinguishable. Chickens have soft feet, a flexible breast 
bone, many pin feathers, and little fat, while fowls have hard 
and scaly feet, a rigid breast bone, long hairs, and a large 
amount of fat around the intestines. 

Poultry is not classed as belonging to the slaughterhouse 
industry and does not come under the provisions of the meat 
inspection law. 

The composition of poultry is essentially the same as that of 
meat. The light meat is composed of more tender fibers less 
firmly held together by connective tissue than the dark meat. 
Light meat also contains less fat. For these reasons, it is apt 
to be more rapidly digested, at least in the stomach, and is 
therefore preferable for persons having weak digestion. 

Dressing and cleaning poultry. The " dressing " of chicken is 
often done now at the market. If it is necessary to do it, make an 
incision with a sharp knife just inside one of the legs, in the groin. 
Remove all entrails. Loosen skin at neck and remove crop. Wash 
thoroughly inside and out, holding the cavity under running water. 
Singe hairs by holding over burning paper or gas flame. Remove 
pin feathers with the point of a knife and cut the oil bag from the tail. 
If it is a fowl, take out the tendons separately, using a skewer. Cut 
the gall bladder away from the liver and cut off the outer coat of the 

153 



154 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

gizzard. Place gizzard and heart in cold water; heat quickly to 
boiHng and then simmer until tender. Add the liver a short time 
before removing the other giblets. The giblets may be chopped and 
added to the gravy. 

Trussing poultry. Insert a skewer underneath the legs, then 
thrust another one through the wings and breast. With string, tie 
the ends of the legs together and fasten them to the tail. Wind the 
ends of the string fastened to the tail, around the ends of the skewer 
beneath the legs. Cross the strings over the back, and wind them 
around the ends of the skewer through the wings; tie the strings 
together at the back. 

Boning poultry or birds. To bone birds, chickens, or turkeys, 
select undrawn birds with head and feet on. Remove pin feathers 
and singe. Draw tendons from the legs by making an incision just 
below the knee joint, and with a strong skewer draw the tendons out 
one at a time. Loosen the skin near the feet and cut off feet. 
Make an incision through the skin from the neck to the tail, the 
entire length of the backbone. Scrape the flesh from the bones until 
the shoulder blade is found, then continue scraping around the wing 
joint. Scrape down the backbone to the thigh, then around the 
second joint and leg, cutting tendinous portion when necessary. 
When one side of backbone is boned, bone the other, then remove 
flesh from breastbone, on either side of bird. When flesh is all 
separated from bone, discard carcass {i.e. the skeleton with entrails, 
etc.), wipe flesh and skin, and arrange in original shape. The birds 
may be seasoned and broiled, or stuffed, sewed into shape and steamed. 
Small birds are generally prepared the former way, and large birds 
the latter way. 

Roast Chicken 

Time: 4 lbs. i^ hrs. 

Fill cavity of a dressed chicken with stuffing (see below) and sew 
edges together. Truss and place on its back in a roasting pan. 
Dredge with flour, and salt, spread with butter, or lay strips of bacon 
across the chicken. Brown in a hot oven, then reduce temperature, 
cover and baste frequently until breast meat is tender. 



POULTRY 155 

Stuffing for Roast Chicken 

Ingredients : 

I c. crumbs onion juice 

^ c. melted butter parsley 

I tsp. salt ^ tsp. poultry seasoning 

i tsp. pepper 

Gravy 

Pour ofif liquid from the pan and place 2 tbsp. chicken fat or butter 
in the pan. Brown with 2 tbsp. flour and i c. stock in which giblets 
were cooked. Season. Strain. 

Evaporate water in pan and add flour. Brown and proceed as 
above. 

Add the flour mixed with a little cold milk to the boiling liquid in 
the pan. 

To Cut up a Fowl for Stewing 

After removing entrails and other organs singe, draw out pin 
feathers, remove tendons, and oil bag. Cut through flesh, at thigh, 
bend back legs and cut off. Separate second joint and drum stick. 
Remove wings and cut off the tips. Separate back from breast by 
cutting through the ribs. Cut breast in two with a cleaver. 

Stewing 

Cover pieces of fowl with boiling water. Simmer until tender, 
adding salt when half cooked. 

Fricasseed Chicken 

Dredge stewed chicken with flour and brown in chicken fat. Ar- 
range on toast surrounded with white or brown sauce and biscuits. 

Fried Chicken 

Dip stewed chicken in flour, egg and flour. Brown in chicken fat 
and lard, or butter and lard. Serve with brown sauce. 



156 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Maryland Chicken 

Dip stewed chicken in flour, egg and fine crumbs. Place in a 
dripping pan with pieces of salt pork or chicken fat. Cover and bake 
30 minutes. Serve with white sauce, broUed bacon, and corn fritters. 

Sauce for Chicken 



Ingredients : 

2 c. chicken stock 




4 tbsp. flour 




(half milk may be 


used) 


salt 




4 tbsp. chicken fat 




pepper 






2 tsp, parsley 




Ingredients : 


Chicken 


Pie 




I stewed fowl cut in 


pieces 


biscuit crust (2 c. 


flour) 


2 c. brown sauce 




parsley 





Method : 

Place the chicken in a buttered baking dish, add the brown sauce 
and parsley and cover the mixture with biscuit dough. 

Place a cup in center of baking dish to hold up crust if the baking 
dish is large. Have the brown sauce and chicken hot when the 
crust is added. Bake in a hot oven. 

Chicken en Casserole 

Dress and clean a young, tender fowl and cut in pieces for serving. 
Spread with | c. butter, put in a casserole and sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Pour over i c. boiling water, cover, and cook until chicken 
is tender, the time required being about i hour. Add i c. cream 
and 2 c. mushrooms. Cook 10 minutes and thicken with i tbsp. 
flour, diluted with 2 tbsp. water. 

Creamed Chicken 

Equal parts cubed chicken and medium white sauce. Use chicken 
fat instead of butter and half milk and stock for the liquid in the 
white sauce. 



POULTRY 157 

Chicken k la King 



Ingredients : 






I c. chicken cut in strips 
^ c. sauteed mushrooms 




3I tbsp. fat 

I tbsp. cornstarch 


f c. pimentoes 

1 c. peas 

i c. string beans 

I 


egg 


i^ c. stock 

or half milk and stock 
1 tsp. salt 
; yolk 


Creole 

Ingredients : 


Chicken 


4 tbsp. butter 
\ c. finely chopped onion 
2 c. stewed tomatoes 
^ c. celery 

I 


4 tbsp. flour 
2 c. chicken stock 
I finely chopped red pepper 
salt 
chicken 



Method : 

Cut chicken in pieces for serving. Brown chicken in butter with 
the onion. Remove chicken, add flour, chicken stock, tomatoes, red 
pepper, celery, and salt. Cook until flavors are well blended. Pre- 
pare chicken in sauce and cook until tender, adding more water as 
liquid evaporates. 

Arrange on serving platter ; surround with gravy and garnish with 
cooked macaroni and parsley. 



CHAPTER XI 
FISH AND SHELLFISH 

There is a steadily increasing tendency towards better con- 
servation and more economical utilization of the fishery prod- 
ucts as food. The Government maintains a Bureau of Fish- 
eries and has established stations on the coast and inland lakes 
for the study and protection of these food supplies. The fish- 
ery industries are capable of great development both by im- 
proved methods of handling the well-known species and by 
utilizing as food the flesh of species formerly neglected. 

According to the quantity of fat it contains, fish may be di- 
vided into two classes : (a) lean, or white fish, and (b) oily, or 
dark fish. The flesh of lean fish is light in color and the oil 
is concentrated in the liver. The flesh of oily fish is dark in 
color, and the oil is distributed throughout the body. Cod, hali- 
but, haddock, etc., are white fish. Salmon, mackerel, herring, 
etc., are dark fish. 

Fish may also be divided into two classes, according to the 
water in which they live, fish from the sea being termed salt- 
water fish, and those from inland lakes and rivers, fresh-water 
fish. 

Detailed information in regard to the various species of food 
fish may be obtained from the Reports and Bulletins of the 
United States Bureau of Fisheries. 

Fish is at its best when cleaned and cooked just after being 
caught. Fish to be sold " fresh " may be sent directly to 
market or may be kept in cold storage either chilled to ice 
temperature or hard frozen. In selecting fish see that the 

158 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 1 59 

flesh feels firm, that the eyes are bright and bulging, and that 
the gills are red and free from blubber. 

From most standpoints fish and shellfish are interchangeable 
with meat in the dietary. There is a general similarity in the 
chemical structure of the proteins, and the coefficients of diges- 
tibility of fish are approximately equal to those of meat. 

Many kinds of fish are preserved in large quantities by drying, 
salting, smoking, canning, or by combinations of these methods. 
For outlines of the preparation of salt codfish, canned salmon 
and sardines in oil see Sherman's Food Products, pages 230-236. 

Methods of cooking fish : 

boiling braising frying 

steaming baking " planking " 

broiling 

Technique of cooking fish. To prevent flesh falling apart, due to 
tendency of the connective tissue to dissolve, 
a. Wrap in cheesecloth when boiling. 
h. Coat with egg and crumbs when frying. 
c. Place on strips of buttered cheesecloth when baking. 

Cleaning fish. Rub off scales from tail to head with a sharp knife. 
Cut through the skin of the back and abdomen, loosen it at the tail 
and pull it off. Remove head, open abdomen and take out the in- 
ternal organs. Wash in cold, salt water. 

Boning fish. Slit the flesh down the back and separate flesh from 
side bones. Pull out the spine and attached bones. 

Fish hi combination with other food : With potatoes as fishballs, 
with eggs as souffle, with white sauce as croquettes, creamed or 
scalloped, with celery as salad. 

Vegetables suitable for serving with fish as garnish are : 



potato balls or curls 


parsley 


cucumber 


Sauces for fish: 






drawn butter 


Bechamel 


egg 


sauce tartare 


olive 
Hollandaise 


cheese 



l6o LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Boiled Fish 

Thick pieces, or whole, small fish 
I tbsp. salt to 3 qts. water 

Wrap in cheesecloth, plunge into boiling water. Simmer 30-40 
minutes, or until tender. 

Broiled Fish 

Broil the flesh side first, then turn and broil other side. The 
length of time for cooking depends on the thickness of the fish. 
Season with butter, salt, pepper, and garnish with parsley. 



Steamed Fish 

Wipe fish with damp cloth. Wrap in cheesecloth and steam or 
boil until tender. Time varies with size and shape of fish. At end 
of 5 minutes, add i tbsp. of salt. A little vinegar may also be 
added to the water. 



Baked Stuffed Fish 

Wash fish and dry with cheesecloth. If not cleaned, remove in- 
ternal organs. Remove backbone by beginning at the tail and with 
a sharp knife push the flesh away from the bones. Wipe with damp 
cloth, sprinkle with salt, and stuff. Sew with coarse cotton, insert 
slices of salt pork at intervals on each side. Bake in hot oven, allow- 
ing 15 minutes to the pound with 15 minutes additional. Serve 
with Hollandaise Sauce. 



Stuffing for Fish 

Ingredients: 

2 c. bread crumbs i tsp. onion juice 

I tsp. salt I tsp. chopped parsley 

I tsp. white pepper i tsp. capers or chopped pickles 

cayenne \ c. melted butter 



FISH AND SHELLFISH l6l 

Fish Cooked in Fat 

Season with salt and pepper, dip in flour, egg, and dried crumbs. 
Fry in deep fat. Drain on paper. 

Fried Smelts 

Clean smelts, leaving on heads and tails. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, dip in flour, egg, and crumbs, and fry 3-4 minutes in deep 
fat. Arrange on hot platter. Garnish with parsley and lemon. 
Serve with Sauce Tartare. 

Shad Roe 

Wash and cook in boiling, salted water 10 minutes. Drain and 
dry. Season. Broil or brown in butter. 

Turbans of Flounder 

Clean fish, remove skin and backbone. Cut each fillet in two 
pieces or if very large three pieces. Season with salt and pepper, 
roll and fasten with small skewers or toothpicks. Dip in crumbs, 
egg and crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Drain on brown paper and serve 
with Sauce Tartare. 

Planked Haddock 

Skin and bone a haddock, leaving meat in two fillets. Brown fillets 
separately. Remove to a plank and season with salt and pepper. 
Garnish with mashed potatoes, outlining the original shape of the 
fish. Bake until potatoes are well browned. Finish garnishing with 
parsley and slices of lemon covered with finely chopped parsley. 

Fish Combined with Other Foods 

Fish Balls 

Ingredients : 

1 c. salt codfish i egg 

2 c. potatoes | tbsp. butter 

I tsp. pepper 

M 



l62 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Wash the fish in cold water and break into small pieces. Wash 
and pare the potatoes and cut into pieces. Cook the fish and potatoes 
together in boiling water until the potatoes are soft. Drain and 
shake over the fire until dry ; mash with a wire potato masher, add 
the beaten egg, butter and pepper, and beat until light. Take up 
the mixture by spoonfuls, mold slightly and slip into the hot fat. 
Fry until brown, or shape into round, flat cakes, dredge with flour 
and brown in butter. 

Scalloped Fish 

Ingredients : 

2 c. flaked fish 2 c. medium white sauce 

I c. buttered crumbs 

Creamed Codfish 

Reheat boiled codfish in medium white sauce. An egg may be 
added. Serve on toast. 

Fish Chowder 

Ingredients : 

5 lb. haddock 4 c. cold water 

4 c. diced potatoes 2 tbsp. butter 

I onion 4 tbsp. flour 

^ c. diced salt pork 4 c. scalded milk 

salt, pepper, cayenne 10 buttered crackers 

Method : 

Remove head, skin, and bones and cut fish into fillets. Cover 
head, skin, and bones with cold water. Simmer 20 minutes, strain, 
and reserve Hquid. Parboil potatoes 10 minutes. Cook onions in 
salt pork until yellow. Remove onion and salt pork if desired. 
Arrange fish and potatoes in layers, seasoning with salt and pepper. 
Cover with water in which bones were cooked and simmer until 
potatoes are tender. Combine mixtures and pour over buttered 
crackers which have been soaked in enough cold milk to moisten 
them. 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 163 

Fish Sauces 

Egg Sauce 

Ingreatents : 

I pt. boiling water i tsp. salt 

I c. butter i tbsp. lemon juice or vinegar 

cayenne 2 hard-cooked eggs 

Method : 

Prepare in the same way as white sauce. The eggs may be chopped 
or the whites sUced and the yolks pressed through a sieve and added 
to the sauce. 



Ingredients . 



Drawn Butter Sauce 



I c. butter i^ c. hot water 

3 tbsp. flour i tsp. salt 

I tsp. pepper 
Method : 

Melt ^ the butter, add flour and seasonings and gradually the hot 
water. Boil 5 minutes and add remaining butter in smaU pieces. 



Bechamel Sauce 

Ingredients : 



2 



z c. butter 



I slice onion | c. flour 

I shce carrot i c. scalded milk 

I bay leaf | tsp. salt 

parsley | tsp. pepper 

Method : 

Cook stock 20 minutes with onion, carrot, bay leaf, parsley ; strain. 
There should be i cupful. Melt the butter, add flour and gradually 
hot stock and milk. Season with salt and pepper. 



l64 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Maitre d'Hotel Butter 

Ingredients : 

1 c. butter ^ tbsp. chopped parsley 
^ tsp. salt f tbsp. lemon juice 

I tsp. pepper 
Method : 

Put butter in a bowl and cream. Add salt, pepper, and parsley, 
then lemon juice very slowly. The heat of the meat or fish will 
dissolve the butter. 

Sauce Tartare 
To f c. mayonnaise dressing add ^ tbsp. each, finely chopped. 

capers onions 

pickles parsley 

h shallot 1 , .^^ J 

, , , > may be omitted 

J tsp. powdered tarragon J 

Hollandaise Sauce 

Ingredients : 

\ c. butter \ tsp. salt 

2 egg yolks xV tsp. cayenne 
i| tsp. lemon juice \ c. boiling water 

Method : 

Cream the butter and add yolks one at a time ; beat well. Add 
seasoning, then boiling water and cook over hot water, stirring con- 
stantly until mixture thickens. Remove from fire, add lemon juice 
and serve at once. 

Mock Hollandaise Sauce 

Ingredients : 

3 tbsp. butter i tsp. salt 
3 tbsp. flour \-i lemon 
2 c. milk 2 eggs 

Method : 

Prepare white sauce. Pour over beaten eggs, stir until it thickens. 
(\(\ Ipmnn luice before servinff. 



Add lemon juice before serving. 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 



165 



FOOD VALUES 
Creamed Codfish on Toast 







1 










1 ^,_^ 








»g 


S^ 


rn 


<: 




H 

C/1 


F1 1/) C m tn C 


^! 


Material 


< 
IS 


1-4 ei 

[x] Ul 


S2 

Plh 





ca 2 
So 






$ 


Cau 

(Calc. a 

Gra 


Phosp 

(Calc. a 

Gra 




Bread . . . 


2 slices 


78 


7.2 


.92 


40.78 


200 


.008 


.022 


.15 


.0006 


Fish . . . 


2 tbsp. 


14.6 


4 


.04 




17 


.009 


.003 


.09 


.0001 


Butter . . 


1 1 tbsp. 


15-7 


• 15 


13-34 




121 


.0119 


.004 


.004 




Butter . . 


2 tbsp. 


28 


.28 


23.8 




215 


.0212 


.006 


.008 




Flour . . . 


2 tbsp. 


14.1 


1.58 


.14 


10.56 


50 


.0015 


.004 


.025 


.0002 


Milk . . . 


I c. 


216.6 


7-14 


8.67 


18.83 


150 


.0225 


.358 


.454 


.0005 


r 


2 slices 


















Total, 1 
cooked 


bread • 
|c. fish. 
^ slice 


333 


20.4 


46.91 


70.17 


753 


.0742 


.396 


•731 


.0014 


loo-Calorie 


bread > 


242.9 


2.7 


6.2 


Q.33 


100 


.01 


•053 


.097 


,0002 


portion 


I c. fish 










1 









SHELLFISH 

Shellfish are divided into two classes: (a) mollusks, and 
(b) crustaceans. Clams, oysters, scallops, and mussels belong 
to the first class, and lobsters, crabs, shrimps, and crawfish 
belong to the second class. 

Oysters. Oysters are the most important of the shellfish 
as factors in the general food supply. The flavor depends 
on the locality in which they are grown. The smaller are 
sought for serving raw, and the medium and larger for cooking. 
They are in season from September to May and are much safer 
in the latter part of the winter.^ The whole flesh of the oyster 

iThe danger of infection through eating oysters from polluted waters is dis- 
cussed in Prescott and Winslow's Elements of Water Bacteriology, and Sherman's 
Food Products. 



i66 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

is edible, even the muscle by which it opens and shuts its shell 
being tender. 

Clams. Clams are of two kinds. They are known as hard 
and soft, or round and long, and in Rhode Island the hard, 
round clam bears the Indian name Quahaug, the soft-shell clam 
being the only " clam." The round clams are raked from the 
bottom of shallow waters and are used when young and small 
in place of raw oysters. The long clams lie buried in the mud 
of creeks and shores left exposed at low tide, and are dug out 
of the mud with hooks. Both kinds of clams have a tough 
portion that is softened in cooking and that is more or less 
indigestible. The long " neck " which protrudes from the 
shell should be discarded. Clams are always in season. They 
are cheap and are commonly used in soups and chowders. 

Scallops. Scallops as purchased consist solely of the round 
white muscle which operates the shell. The scallop is migra- 
tory and reaches the creeks and shores in autumn. 

Lobsters. The muscle of lobsters compares favorably with 
meat. When fresh, and served at a suitable time, lobsters are 
not indigestible. 

Crabs. Crabs, like lobsters, shed their shell annually. When 
the new shell is forming, they are called soft-shell crabs. They 
are found near the coast of the Southern and Middle States, 
and are usually high-priced. Crabs should be inspected accord- 
ing to the rules for lobsters. 

Steamed Clams 

For steaming, clams should be bought in the shell. Wash in 
several waters. Place in saucepan, allowing | c. water to i qt. 
clams. Cover closely and steam until clams partially open. Care 
should be taken not to overcook them. Serve with melted butter. 
A few drops of lemon juice may be added to the butter. 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 



167 



Ingredients : 


Clam Broth 




2 doz. clams 




water 


2 tbsp. butter 




pepper 



salt 

Method : 

Wash and scrub clams and place in saucepan with cold water. 
Cook until shells are open. Evaporate liquid down to 2 c. Remove 
soft part from shells, add to liquid, add seasonings, reheat, and serve 
with a cracker or piece of toast. 



Ingredients : 

3 doz. clams 

1 c. boiling water 

2 c. potato cubes 

4 slices bacon 



Clam Chowder I 



I onion 
4 tbsp. butter 
4 c. scalded milk 
8 crackers 



salt and pepper 

Method : 

Wash and steam clams. Remove meat and chop. Cook potatoes, 
bacon, onion, salt, pepper, and butter in clam juice until vegetables 
are soft, adding more water if needed. Add clams and simmer 3 
minutes. Add milk and crackers before serving. 



Clam Chowder II 

Ingredients : 

r i^ doz. clams 
A ^ I c. tomatoes 
I I tbsp. catsup 

I 4 slices bacon 
1 I cubed potato 

P J I slice toast — diced 
\ 2 tbsp. cracker crumbs 
Method : 

Strain liquor from clams, add to B with boiling water 
until potatoes are tender, add A, boil 3 minutes. Add C. 



B 



^ tsp. tabasco sauce 
^ tsp. salt 
I tsp. pepper 

I tsp. parsley 
I onion 

§ sliced lemon 



Simmer 



l68 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Oyster Broth 

Ingredients : 

I c. oysters ^ tsp. salt 
i^ c. milk pepper 

I I tbsp. water i tbsp. butter 

Method : 

Scald milk. Heat oysters in water until plump. Add milk and 
seasonings. 



Oyster Stew 

Ingredients : 

I pt. oysters i pt. thin white sauce 

Method : 

Heat the oysters in their own liquor or sufficient water until the 
edges curl. 

Add cooked oysters to white sauce just before serving. 



Oyster Cocktail 

Ingredients : 

I tsp. grated horseradish 2 tbsp. tomato catsup 

6-8 drops tabasco sauce j tsp. salt 

^ tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

Method : 

Serve in glasses or in halves of grapefruit. 



Fried Oysters 

Ingredients : 

2 doz. large oysters i| c. grated crumbs 

I egg and i tbsp. water salt, pepper 

Method : 

Drain oysters, wash, dry, and season with salt and pepper. 
Crumb, egg and crumb oysters, and fry in deep fat. 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 169 

Pigs in Blankets or Oysters in Bacon 
Ingredients : 

I doz. oysters 4 slices toast 

I doz. slices bacon 
Method : 

Drain oysters, wash, dry, and roll each in bacon. Fasten with 
skewer. Cook in hot omelet pan until slightly crisp and brown. 
Remove skewer and serve on toast. 



Oyster Fricassee 
Ingredients : 

i c. butter paprika 

2 tsp. salt pepper 

2 qts. oysters 

Method : 

Place butter, salt, and pepper in a saucepan, and when hot, add 
oysters. Cover and shake until oysters are plump. Drain and add 
cream to the liquid to make 2 c. 

Make sauce of the 2 c. liquid 2 tsp. lemon juice 

I c. butter 2 eggs 

I c. flour 

Add oysters. Serve on toast. 

Lobsters 

Directions : 

Lobsters should be bought aHve. Small ones, heavy for their size, 
are best. If they are bought after being cooked, the tail should 
spring back quickly when straightened, otherwise the lobster was 
dead before being cooked. 

Cook 15-30 minutes below boiling point. When done, place in 
cold water. If cooked too long, they become tough. 

Break off the claws, separate tail from body and body from shell. 
Save the coral. Crush the tail by pressing the sides together, then 
puU or cut it open on the under side and take out the meat in one 
piece. Remove the intestine which runs the entire length. Break 
off the tail from the body before picking the meat from the joints. 



lyo LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



The gills, the stomach, and the intestines are the only parts not eaten. 
The Uver may or may not be eaten. Break the body in the middle 
lengthwise and pick the meat from the joints. Pound the claws 
carefully so that the meat may be removed without being crushed. 
The meat should not be kept more than i8 hours after it is cooked. 
Season with salt and cayenne, pack in a covered jar, and place on 
ice. If French dressing is to be used, omit salt and cayenne from the 
recipe. 

If it is desired to save the tail for serving the salad, break it on the 
inside. 



Lobster Newburg 



nutmeg 

1 c. sherry 

2 tbsp. brandy 
^ c. thin cream 



Ingredients : 

2 c. lobster meat 

2 tbsp. butter 

I tsp. salt 

cayenne 

3 egg yolks 
Method : 

Melt butter, add lobster meat, and cook 3 minutes. Add cream 
and egg yolks slightly beaten. Stir the liiixture until thickened, over 
hot water. Add wine and serve. 



Ingredients : 

6 crabs 

2 tbsp. butter 

2 tbsp. flour 



Devilled Crabs 



tbsp. lemon juice 

tsp. parsley 

tsp. Worcestershire sauce 

i| c. cream 



^ tsp. mustard 

2 drops tabasco sauce 

^ tsp. salt 
cayenne 
Method : 

Cook crabs in boiling water (salted) for 20 minutes. Place in cold 
water for a few minutes. Pick out the meat, being careful not to 
break the shell. Make a sauce of the remaining ingredients, season 
highly, and add crab meat to it. If the mixture is too stiff, add milk 
or cream to make the right consistency. Wash and scrub the upper 
shell and fill with the mixture. Cover with buttered crumbs and 
bake from 15-20 minutes, or until brown. 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 171 

Soft-shell Crabs 

Method: 

Lift each point of the back shell and remove the spongy substance 
found beneath it. Turn the crab on its back and remove the semi- 
circular piece of dark, soft shell called the " apron," and the spongy 
substance under it. Wash and dry. Proceed as for Fried Oysters. 

References 
Fish 

Atwater and Bryant. The Composition of American Food Mate- 
rials. United States Department of Agriculture, Office of 
Experiment Stations, Bulletin 28 (Revised). 

Green. How to Cook Fish. 

Green. How to Cook Shellfish. 

Langworthy. Fish as Food. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Farmers' Bulletin 85 (Revised 1907). 

Milner. Digestibility of Fish and Poultry. Storrs (Conn.) Agri- 
cultural Experiment Station, Seventeenth Annual Report, 
pages 1 16-142 (1905). 

Prescott and Winslow. Elements of Water Bacteriology. 

Sherman. Food Products. 

Thompson. Practical Dietetics. 

United States Bureau of Fisheries. Reports and Bulletins. 

Wiley. Foods and their Adulterations. 



CHAPTER XII 
FLOUR MIXTURES 

Flour mixtures are taken to mean food materials in which 
the basis is flour to which is added Hquid, and a leaven ; sugar, 
butter, and various fruits or condiments may be added also. 
These mixtures are baked, fried, or steamed. The composition 
and nutritive value of a flour mixture naturally varies with the 
ingredients. No general statements need be attempted, but 
the student should work out the food values of as many of the 
products as time permits. See also A Laboratory Manual for 
Dietetics, Mrs. Mary S. Rose, and Bulletin 28, of the Office of 
Experiment Stations, United States Department of Agriculture. 

For the purposes of this book it seems best to take up the 
experiments on Flour Mixtures as a connected group, while a 
division is made in the recipes. 

FLOUR EXPERIMENTS 

143. — To I c. bread flour in a bowl, add just enough cold water 
to make a stiff dough. Knead with a wooden spoon or the fingers 
for 5 minutes. Cover the bowl with a cheesecloth and allow it 
to stand for 30 minutes so that the water may develop the full amount 
of gluten,^ 

After the dough has stood for 30 minutes, add sufficient cold water 
to cover the mixture and knead the mass gently but thoroughly in 
the bowl. 

1 At least four diflEerent kinds of protein can be isolated, but the most important 
for us to take account of are gliadin, and glutenin, the essential constituents of 
" gluten." 

172 



FLOUR MIXTURES 1 73 

a. Notice the milky color of the water as soon as the 

kneading begins. 

b. To what is the milky color due? 

c. Determine by the iodine test, page 13. 

144. — Continue kneading the mass, changing the water fre- 
quently until it no longer shows the milky color. 

The resultant mass is gluten. Notice the stringy, elastic character. 
Notice the color. 
Save for subsequent experiments. 
Note : Perhaps some of the class have made " gum" by chewing wheat grain 
and remember the sticky, elastic mass with sweetish taste which results. 

145. — To smaU portions of the washed gluten, apply the following 

tests : 

a. Xanthoproteic, page 85. 

b. Iodine, page 13. 

c. FehHng-Benedict, page 13. 

146. — Burn a small portion ; an odor as of burning wool or feathers 

is noticed. 

What material burns with such an odor? 

147 — Dry a small piece of gluten with a cheesecloth. 

Place it on an ungreased pan and bake it in a hot oven. 

The mass will expand, but, on removing from the oven, wUl contract. 

What causes it to change shape? 

How can it expand and contract without cracking? 

To which class of foodstuffs does gluten belong? What are its 
physical characteristics? 

148. — To give the class a more comprehensive idea of gluten, the 
instructor should contrast the following by preparing gluten or 
attempting to prepare gluten : 

a. pastry flour d. graham flour 

b. rye flour e. corn meal 

c. entire wheat 

Note : These experiments should demonstrate to the class the reasons for 
the thorough kneading of breads as contrasted with the slight 
beating of cake after the flour has been added. 



174 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Bread 

149. — Make a microscopic examination of bread and pastry flour in : 

a. A drop of cold water. 
h. A drop of dilute iodine. 
Describe your observations. 

150. — Do the same with rye and corn meal. 

151. — Apply the iodine and Millon tests to small pieces of both 
the crust and the soft inner portions of a piece of bread. 

What do you notice as to the intensity of color and quickness of 
reaction ? 

152. — • a. Separate the crust and softer part. Put each, broken 
into small pieces, into a small beaker of cold water. Let stand 30 
minutes and then filter through a wet fluted filter. 

h. To the filtered extract from each beaker, apply the 
following tests : 

Iodine, page 13. 

Fehling-Benedict, page 13. 

Biuret, page 85. 

Xanthoproteic, page 85. 
c. After performing h, what are your conclusions? 

153. — The instructor will be able to amplify the experiment by 
repeating 151 and 152 with portions of the following food materials : 

a. plain muffin c. soda cracker. 

b. plain cake. d. uneeda biscuit. 

Review the experiment with dextrin (page 61). 

Muffins 

154. — Use recipe for plain mufhns. Combine ingredients in the 
following manner and bake samples at the following temperatures : ^ 

^ These temperatures are suggested by Miss Van Arsdale in the Bulletin, Some 
Attempts to Standardize Oven Temperatures for Cookery Processes. Note which 
range in temperature approximated a satisfactory result. Take the most satis- 
factory range and again bake muffins, using the selected temperatures as a starting 
point from which to formulate a range in temperature which produces desirable 
results. What conditions influence the production of muffins and necessitate a 
graduation in temperature ? 



FLOUR MIXTURES 175 

250-350° F. 
350-400° F. 
400-450° F. 
450-550° F. 

In all the experiments with Flour Mixtures use the temperatures 
stated above as a starting point from which to make your own tem- 
peratures. 

a. Sugar, unbeaten egg, melted shortening, dry ingredients, 
liquid. Mix thoroughly. 

b. Sugar, egg beaten with Dover egg beater, dry ingre- 
dients, liquid, melted shortening, no extra mixing. 

c. Shortening creamed, yolk of egg, sugar, f liquid, dry 
ingredients, ^ liquid, stiffly beaten whites of eggs folded in. 

d. Dry ingredients, chop in shortening, sugar, liquid, un- 
beaten eggs. 

e. Compare results as to texture, flavor, crust, excess fat. 

155. — Use recipe for Plain Muffins. Combine ingredients as above. 
Other ingredients being alike in each case, use for shortening the 

following : 

a. butter 

b. I butter, ^ lard 

c. lard 

d. oleomargarine 

e. crisco 
/. corn oil 

g. pure cottonseed oil 
h. cheese 

156. — As in Expt. 155, except as follows : 
Use for liquid the following : 

a. sweet milk 

b. sour milk 

c. buttermilk 

d. condensed milk (diluted) 

e. milk powder (liquefied) 
/. ^ milk, ^ water. 

g. water. 



176 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

157. — As before, except as follows : 

Use for leaven the following (calculate the amount of leaven re- 
quired in each case) : 

a. soda and cream of tartar 
h. soda and sour milk 

c. alum baking powder 

d. phosphate baking powder 

e. yeast 

In each Expt. (155-157) 

a. Compare the practical use of the variations in ingredients. 
h. Compare approximate differences in cost in variations. 
c. Conclusions. 

Biscuits 

158. — Use recipe for Baking Powder Biscuits. Combine ingredi- 
ents in the following manner : 

a. Dry ingredients, shortening chopped in, liquid. Mix 
with a knife just enough to combine the ingredients. Turn the dough 
on a slightly floured board and roll it out, cut (see Expt. 159) , and bake. 

h. Dry ingredients, liquid, melted shortening stirred into 
mixture with a spoon. Turn it on a slightly floured board, roll, cut 
out (see Expt. 159), and bake. 

159. — Divide biscuits cut out in Expt. 158 into three parts, ai, a2, 
03; hi, b2, 63. Brush ai and 61 with a httle milk before baking. 
Brush a2 and 62 with a little melted butter before baking. Bake 
03 and &3 as cut out. Compare results. 

160. — Use recipe for Baking Powder Biscuits. 
Substitute for butter the following shortenings : 



a. 
b. 
c. 


^ butter, I lard 

oleomargarine 

lard 


g- 
h. 


chicken fat 
olive oil 
cottonseed oil 


d. 

e. 


crisco 

beef drippings 


i. 


corn oil 
peanut oil 



Compare the results as to appearance, flavor, texture. 

161. — Compute the cost of the products of Expt. 160 and compare 
with the rating as to quality. 



FLOUR MIXTURES 177 

Pastry 

162. — Use recipe for plain paste. Combine ingredients in the 
following manner : 

a. Dry ingredients, shortening chopped in, ice water. 
Chill before rolling out. 

b. Dry ingredients and ice water made into a dough. Roll 
mixture on a pastry cloth. Fold and roll the shortening in. 

c. Dry ingredients and melted shortening mixed as much 
as possible. Chill, chop mixture into uncombined flour. Add ice 
water. 

Note : An interesting observation can be made from the following experi- 
ment : 
. Dry ingredients, measured and melted shortening, versus dry ingre- 
dients, melted and measured shortening. 

163. — From the results of Expt. 162 decide upon the best method 
of combining ingredients and bake the following pies in this manner : 

Pastry shell : 

a. dredge with flour — apple pie. 

h. brush over with white of egg — custard pie. 

c. bake before filling — cream pie. 

Sum up your observations concerning shortenings used in pastry, 
methods of combining, and baking of pies. 

Cake 

164. — Note that the general rule for plain cake conforms to these 
proportions : 

\ as much shortening as sugar. 

\ as much liquid as flour. 

2 tsp. of baking powder to each cup of flour, but for every egg after 
the first, \ tsp. of baking powder is deducted. 

Combine the ingredients for plain cake in the following ways. 
Bake the products at the same temperature : 

a. Cream the butter, add sugar, whole eggs unbeaten, milk, 
sifted dry ingredients. 

b. Cream the butter, add unbeaten egg yolk, sugar, milk, 
sifted dry ingredients, beaten egg white. 

N 



178 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

c. Egg yolk, sugar, milk, sifted dry ingredients, melted 
butter, beaten egg white. 

d. Cream the butter, add sugar, beaten egg yolk, milk and 
dry ingredients alternately, beaten egg whites. 

165. — Repeat Expt. 164, substituting for butter the following : 

a. ^ butter, ^ crisco 

b. ^ butter, | lard 

c. oleomargarine 

d. crisco 

e. cottonseed oil 
/. corn oil 

g. chicken fat 

166. — a. Use the rule for plain cake, and prepare three cakes, 
using for shortening, butter, oleo, crisco. 

b. Divide each rule into 5 parts A, B, C, D, E. Bake A 
in a slow oven ; record temperature. Bake B in a moderate oven ; 
record temperature. Bake C in a slow oven, increasing the tempera- 
ture ; record stages and changes in temperature. 

Bake D in a hot oven, reducing the temperature ; record tempera- 
tures and changes at each stage. Bake E in a cold oven, that is, 
light the burners when the cake is placed in the oven. Summarize 
results. 

Record the optimum method of combination of ingredients and 
oven temperature for each fat used in cake baking. 

167. — a. Add chocolate to plain cake recipe. Determine the 

amount necessary. What change in the amount of flour is necessary? 

Why? 

b. Add nuts to plain cake recipe. Compare with plain 

cake. What change in the recipe is necessary ? Why ? 

168. — a. Cake without butter : compare the recipe for butter 
cake with that for sponge cake. Note the absence of butter in the 
latter and also the greater number of eggs. Review the experiments 
with eggs and recall the effect of various temperatures in the cooking 
of eggs. Review the oven temperatures given by Miss Van Arsdale 



FLOUR MIXTURES 179 

in Some Attempts to Standardize Oven Temperatures, and compare with 
those determined in preceding experiments with butter cake. Se- 
lect the range in each instance which corresponds to " slow " and 
" moderate." Prepare one rule of sponge cake (use first recipe) and 
bake samples at those temperatures. Compare as to moisture, 
texture, and length of cooking. 

h. Repeat the above experiment, using any sponge cake 
recipe calling for a large number of eggs. In what way do the re- 
sults differ from those in the preceding one? How do you account 
for these differences ? 

c. Repeat, using the first recipe for white sponge cake or 
angel cake. Compare the results with those in a and h. Account 
for the differences noted. What is a satisfactory range in oven tem- 
peratures for each type of cake? 

d. Having determined the oven temperature in the above 
experiments, prepare three sponge cakes, combining the ingredients 
in the following manner : 

Beat yolks with Dover egg beater. Add the sugar. 

Dover egg beater. 
Beat whites ■ silver fork, 
wire whisk. 
Fold in the whites before the flour. 
Fold in the whites after the flour. 
Stir in the whites after the flour. 

Bake and compare as to texture. Which method seems most 
satisfactory ? 

Note : This experiment can be successfully carried out if arranged so that 
samples of a, h, and c are baked together at the various tempera- 
tures. Comparison is thus made easy. 

Leavens — Leavening Agents 
A leaven or leavening agent is something which will lighten 
a mixture. Flour mixtures are usually leavened by steam, by 
evolution of carbon dioxide, or by the expansion of inclosed 
and heated air. White of egg or cream may be said to be 
'' leavened " when " whipped," in which case the leavening 



l8o LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

consists simply in the mechanical incorporation of air bubbles 
In some bakeries (especially in England) dough is leavened b} 
incorporating air under pressure, which when the pressure is 
released will expand even without application of heat. 

When leavening is to be accomplished by means of carbor 
dioxide the latter is usually produced either : 

(i) by yeast fermentation, producing carbon dioxide frorr 
a portion of the carbohydrate of the mixture ; 

(2) by interaction of sodium bicarbonate ('' cooking soda "] 
with an acid substance (either free acid or acid salt) in thf 
presence of moisture. 

Sour milk, buttermilk, vinegar, molasses, and some fruit juices 
contain free acids. 

Many fruit juices contain acid salts. 

Acid salts used as such to liberate carbon dioxide from sodiunr 
bicarbonate — in other words used as the " acid constituent ' 
of baking powders — are chiefly : (a) acid potassium tartrate 
(cream of tartar), (b) acid phosphate, (c) some form of alum oi 
aluminum sulphate ; hence the classification of baking powders 
in three main groups — the '' tartrate," the " phosphate," anc 
the '' alum " powders. 

EXPERIMENTS WITH LEAVENS AND LEAVENING 

AGENTS 
Egg, air, steam 

169. — Measure the unbeaten white of an egg in a tablespoon 
Beat with a Dover egg beater and measure in a tablespoon. Result; 

170. — Whip an unbeaten egg white with a wire whisk. What 
is the difference in volume? To what is this due? Notice the dif- 
ference in size of air spaces where Dover beater is used as compared 
with wire whisk. 

171. — Perform 169 and 170 each with an egg yolk. 
Why is the increase in volume less noticeable ? 



FLOUR MIXTURES i8i 

What is the marked difference in the composition of the egg yolk 
as compared with the egg white? 

172. — a. Use the unbeaten egg to make popovers. 

b. Use the beaten egg to make sponge cake. 

c. Use the whipped egg to make Foamy Omelet. Compare 
texture of each product. Explain. 

d. Which egg white at time of using contains most water? 

Sodium bicarbonate 

173. — Have ready for this and the succeeding experiments, the 

following : 

baking soda molasses 

cream of tartar chocolate 

lemon juice coffee 

vinegar hot water 

sour milk tomato 
limewater 

Test with litmus and record reaction of each. 

174. — Carbon dioxide precipitates the Hme in a solution of Hme 
and water. This can be shown by breathing through a tube, one end 
of which is immersed in a beaker of Umewater. The white, chalky 
deposit which soon appears on the bottom of the beaker is carbonate 
of Hme from the lime of solution and the carbon dioxide of the breath. 

175. _ Arrange g test tubes with perforated corks or rubber stop- 
pers fitted with a bent tube to conduct gas from test tube into beaker 

of limewater. 

In each dry test tube put I tsp. dry baking^ soda. Arrange per- 
forated corks or stoppers with bent tube and have ready to adjust 
at once and conduct the gas given off into limewater (equal volume 

in each beaker). 

When all is ready, put i tbsp. of an acid or hot water respectively 
into a test tube until aU have been used. Several phenomena will 

be observed. 

Note the evolution of gas. rapidity with which given off, compara- 
tive amount of carbonate of Hme deposited. Conclude the corre- 
sponding amount of carbon dioxide given off. 

Tabulate and compare the results. 



l82 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

176. — If the facilities of the chemical laboratory are available, 
make the experiment with cream of tartar quantitatively, using pure 
substances. 

177. — In the experiment with cream of tartar, it will be neces- 
sary to add water before the action will take place. 

What does this explain in regard to baking powder ? 
Why is corn starch or flour used in the manufacture of baking 
powder ? 

178. — Test I tsp. of baking powder with i tbsp. hot water. As- 
suming that the baking powder is a mixture of sodium bicarbonate and 
an acid salt, can you determine the nature of the latter by chemical 
analysis ? 

179. Prepare baking powder according to the following proportion : 

I lb. cream tartar 
^ lb. baking soda 
I lb. corn starch 
Sift six times 

Yeasts 

180. — Fermentation of molasses. Into a common test tube or 
any glass vial, place a solution made by mixing one spoonful of 
molasses with ten spoonfuls of water. Rub up a little compressed 
yeast in water and put a few drops into the tube of molasses water. 
Set aside in a warm place and let it stand for about 24 hours. At 
the end of this time a vigorous fermentation will be seen. The liquid 
will have become somewhat cloudy, numerous bubbles can be seen 
rising through it, a froth forms on top, and a mass of sediment soon 
collects at the bottom. The bubbles are the carbon dioxide which 
is escaping into the air ; the sediment at the bottom is the growing 
mass of yeast, and the alcohol, which looks like water, is dissolved 
in the liquid and is, of course, invisible. 

181. — Proof of the nature of the gas. Prepare two tubes. 
In tube A place molasses and water inoculated with several drops 
of yeast, as in the last experiment. Put the cork in place and insert 
the other end of the tube into a second tube underneath the surface 
of some clear limewater. Set aside in a warm place until vigorous 



FLOUR MIXTURES 1 83 

fermentation occurs. Note the bubbles of gas that arise from the fer- 
menting tube and bubble up through the limewater. The limewater 
soon becomes turbid, showing that the gas contains carbon dioxide. 

182. — Rub a bit of yeast cake in a little water so as to make a 
slightly cloudy solution. Place a drop of the solution upon a micro- 
scope slide, cover with a cover glass, and examine first with a f-inch 
objective. Note that the water seems to be filled with very minute 
dots. Study with a higher power (^ in. objective). Examine the 
yeast cells, noting the shape and comparative size. 

183. — Growing yeast. With a glass rod, remove a drop of the 
sediment from growing yeast prepared as in Expt. 180. Place the 
drop on a slide, cover with a cover glass, and study as in the previous 
case. Remove some of the yeast found floating on the surface and 
study in the same way. Note that the yeast cells are in groups. 
Make a sketch of several groups, showing buds of various sizes. Note 
any other differences you can see between this growing yeast and the 
compressed yeast cake. 

184. — Effect of boiling. Prepare two test tubes of molasses and 
water and inoculate each with a drop of yeast. Plug with cotton. 
Place one test tube in water and boil for ten minutes, and then leave 
both test tubes side by side in a warm place for two days, and deter- 
mine whether the boiling has been sufficient to kill the yeast. 

185. — Wild yeast. Prepare several test tubes of molasses and 
water as described and without plugging with cotton leave exposed 
in various places for two or three days. Determine by the appear- 
ance of bubbles whether fermentation occurs. If any change takes 
place in the liquids, examine with a microscope to determine whether 
yeasts have found entrance from the air or whether some other micro- 
organisms are growing in the solutions. Commonly, bacteria will be 
found more abundant than yeasts. 

186. — Effect of age on yeast. Obtain an old sample of dried 
yeast cake. Prepare two tubes of molasses and water and inocu- 
late one with a small quantity of the old yeast cake and two others 
with a similar quantity of a fresh cake. ' Set aside in a warm place 
and determine in which fermentation starts sooner, and in which it 



l84 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

is the more vigorous. Examine with a microscope after fermenta- 
tion begins, to see if either contains other organisms besides yeast. 

187. — Action of yeast on bread. Mix up a little flour and water 
to about the consistency of dough for bread making and divide into 
three lots, A, B, and C. Into A and B place a little compressed 
yeast. A and B are then to be placed in a warm place for five or six 
hours, while C, without the yeast, is to be baked at once. After A 
and B have risen under the influence of the yeast, bake B at once in 
the oven, while A is to be thoroughly kneaded and then baked. 
Compare the results of A, B, and C, noticing the difference in the 
textures of the bread. 

188. — Over raising. Mix another lot of dough with yeast in the 
same way and allow it to rise in a warm place for twelve hours or 
more. Test with litmus paper to see if it is acid. Bake and taste to 
see if it has become sour. 

189. — Repeat Expt. 187, comparing cold milk, scalded milk, 
and water as the liquid to be used in the dough. Note which 
dough sours first. 

190. — Bread raised by wild yeast. Put a small amount of salt 
in a little milk and then allow it to stand in a warm place until a 
froth appears. Mix it with flour to make a dough and set aside to 
rise. Does the dough rise as rapidly and as satisfactorily as when 
yeast is used? Does the baked dough have the same taste? 

191. — Kumiss. Into a quart of milk, put two tbsp. of granu- 
lated sugar and add about jig of a compressed yeast cake. Put in a 
warm place and leave for 24 hours. Cool and taste. This will be 
kumiss or fermented milk. Is it sour? 

192. — Prepare equal weights of the following sugars: 

a. sucrose d. glucose 

b. maltose e. levulose 

c. lactose 

Dissolve each in small equal quantities of distilled water. (These 
solutions are for the next experiment.) Note any changes in appear- 
ance which may occur, and the rapidity with which each sugar 



FLOUR MIXTURES 185 

dissolves. Using a small measured fraction of each solution can you 
detect any difference in sweetness? 

193. — a. Prepare small, equal weights of compressed yeast cake 
and mix one portion with each sugar solution. Turn the mixture 
into fermentation tubes and allow them to stand in a uniformly warm 

place. 

b. Note in which tube fermentation begins and the rapidity 

with which it proceeds. 

c. Compare the volume of gas collected during a unit 

length of time. 

d. What do you conclude as to the relative fermentative 

quahties of the sugars used ? 

e. Of what significance is this? 

Flour Mixtures (Common designations) 



Biscuits 




Doughnuts 


Muffins 




Waffles 


Bread 




Griddlecakes 


Rolls 




Timbales 


Cookies 




Fillings and frostings 


Cakes 




Pastry 




Fillings 


for pie 



Classification of Flour Mixtures 

Batters — beaten. 

Doughs — mixed with knife or kneaded and rolled out. 

Proportion of Liquid to Flour 

Thin Batters Thick Batters 



I -I 




1-2 


Griddlecakes 




Cake 


Waffles 




Suet puddings 


Fritters 




Emergency biscuit 


Popovers 




Muffins 




Dropped cookies 



l86 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 
Soft Dough Stiff Dough 



1-3 


1-4 


Biscuit 


Pastry 


Crullers 


Rolled cookies 


Bread 




Rolls 




Flour 


Mixtures 


Essential Ingredients : 


Non-essential Ingredients : 


Flour 


Eggs 


Liquid 


Sweetening 


Leavening agent 


Shortening 


Salt 


Flavoring 



Function of: 

Flour : to give substance or body. 
Liquid : to hold dry ingredients together. 

Milk Eggs 

Water Coffee 

Molasses Cocoa 

Wine Brandy 

Leavening agent : to produce a gas which separates the particles, and 
expands by the heat applied in baking, thus raising the mixture. 

Leavening Agents 

Baking powder 

Yeast 

Baking soda and an acid 

Salt : to increase palatability. 
Shortening : to make brittle by enriching. 



Butter 


Suet 


Oleomargarine 


Drippings 


Lard 


Chicken fat 


Crisco 


Refined oils 



FLOUR MIXTURES 



187 



Sweetening : 

Sugar Molasses 

Brown sugar Karo 

Glucose 
Eggs: to moisten 
to thicken 
to leaven 
to flavor 

Flavoring: to increase palatability. 

Spices Fruit juices 

Extracts Fruit rinds 



Oven Temperature 

Biscuit, " hot " 1 

Bread, '' hot " 

„ , / with butter " moderate " 

\ without butter " cool " 

Cookies, " moderate " 

Muffins, " moderate " 

Pastry, " hot " 

Popovers, " very hot to moderate " .... 
Rolls, " hot to moderate " 



o F, 1 

°F. 

°F. 

°F. 

°F. 

°F. 

°F. 

°F. 

°F. 



C. 
C. 
C. 
C. 
C. 
C. 
C. 
C. 
C. 



References 



Flour and Bread 



Atwater, H. W. Bread and Bread Making. United States De- 
partment of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 389 (1910). 

Bevier. Some Points in the Making and Judging of Bread. Uni- 
versity of Illinois, Bulletin, vol. 10 (March 17, 1913). 

Bread Lesson. Demonstration. Iowa State College, Agricultural 
Department, Short Course Class Notes, No. i. 

Bulletin on Idaho Bread Contest Clubs. Idaho State Department 
of Public Instruction. 

Calvin. Essentials of Bread Making. Oregon Agricultural College, 
Domestic Science and Art Project, Circular, No. 6. 

^ Supply temperatures found by experiment (see pages 174-179). 



1 88 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Grant. The Chemistry of Bread Making. 

Harcourt and Purdy. Flour and Bread Making. Ontario Agri- 
cultural College, Department of Agriculture, Bulletin i8o (1910). 

Hunt. The Cereals in America. 

Jago. The Technology of Bread Making. 

KoHMAN. Salt-raising Bread and Some Comparisons with Bread 
made with Yeast. Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chem- 
istry, vol. 4, pages 20-30, 100-106 (191 2). 

Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

Leclerc and Jacobs. Graham Flour. United States Department 
of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 164 (1913). 

Newanetal. Some Experiments on the Relative Digestibility of 
White and Whole Meal Breads. Journal of Hygiene, vol. 12, 
pages 119-143 (1912). 

Osborne. The Proteins of the Wheat Kernel, 

Shaw and Gaumnitz. California White Wheats. Berkeley, Cali- 
fornia, Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 212 (191 1). 

Simmons. Book of Bread. 

Snyder. Studies in Bread and Breadmaking. Bulletins 67, loi, 
126 of the Office of Experiment Stations, United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture. 

Snyder and Woods. Wheat Flour and Bread. United States 
Department of Agriculture, Yearbook for 1903, pages 347-362. 

Van Arsdale. Some Attempts to Standardize Oven Temperatures 
for Cooking Processes. Teachers College Bulletin, Technical 
Series No. 8 (1914). 

Ward ALL. Relation of Yeast to Flavor in Bread. Journal of Home 
Economics, vol. 2, pages 75-91 (1910). 

Wiley. Cereals and Cereal Products. Part 9 of Bulletin 13 of the 
Bureau of Chemistry, United States Department of Agriculture. 

Woods and Merrill. The DigestibiUty and Nutritive Value of 
Bread. Bulletins 85 and 143 of the Office of Experiment Sta- 
tions, United States Department of Agriculture. 



Ingredients : 



CHAPTER XIII 
BATTERS AND DOUGHS 

Select one of the following recipes for bread. Weigh each ingredient 
accurately (to the nearest gram). Weigh the finished product and 
calculate its food value and the weight and nutrients of the loo-calorie 
portion. Compare value and cost with those of cooked foods shown 
on pages 205 and 229. 

White Bread 

Quick Process 

3 c. flour I tsp. salt 

I c. milk or water i tbsp. butter 

I tsp. sugar I yeast cake 

Method : 

Scald the milk or boil the water, add to the salt, sugar, and butter 
and stir until dissolved. Cool until lukewarm, add yeast softened 
in J c. lukewarm water. Add one half the flour, beat until smooth. 
Cover and set in pan of warm water until doubled in bulk. Add 
the remainder of the flour and mix well. Put on a lightly floured 
board and knead until smooth and elastic. Mold into a loaf, place 
in a well-greased pan, cover, and let double its bulk. Bake in a hot 
oven 40-60 minutes. 

Slow Process 

As for quick process bread with these exceptions : 
Use only I yeast cake. Add all the flour and knead once before 
setting to rise. Let rise overnight at room temperature instead of 
in a pan of warm water. In the morning knead, mold into loaves, and 
proceed as above. 

189 



IQO 



LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients 



Graham Bread 



^ c. scalded milk 
^ c. water 
I tsp. salt 

1 tbsp. butter 

2 tbsp. molasses 
f yeast cake 



1 

2 



lukewarm water 
c. white flour 
graham or entire wheat flour 
" to knead." The mixture 
should be easily handled 
but not hard and dry 



Nut Bread 
I c. chopped walnuts added after the first rising 



Ingredients : 



I c. scalded milk 
^ c. water 



I tsp. salt 



Gluten Bread 

I tbsp. butter 
^ yeast cake 
I c. lukewarm water 
gluten flour " to knead " 



Breads without Yeast 



Steamed 



if tsp. soda 
I tsp. salt 
f c. molasses 



Boston Brown Bread 

Ingredients : 

I c. rye meal 
I c. corn meal 
I c. graham flour 

2 c. sour milk or i f c. sweet milk 
Method : 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Combine molasses and milk and 
add to first mixture. FiU greased molds f full of the mixture. Steam 
3-4 hours. 

Brown Bread I — Baked 



Ingredients : 

1 c. molasses 

2 c. sour milk 

3 eggs 

2 tbsp. melted butter 



3^ c. graham flour 
1 1 tsp. baking powder 
2 tsp. baking soda 
I tsp. salt 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



191 



Method : 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add slightly beaten eggs to the 
liquid ingredients and combine mixtures. Bake in a slow oven i\ 
hours. The batter should be a little thicker than for butter cakes. 



Ingredients : 


Brown Bread II 


\ c. sugar 
§ c. molasses 
2 c. sour milk 




1 tsp. salt 

2 c. graham flour 
i§ c. white flour 


2 tsp. soda 




I c. nut meats 




2 c. 


raisins 



Method : 

Let stand i hour in bread pan. Bake in a moderate oven 40-50 
minutes. 



Ingredients : 

2 c. buttermilk 

1 c, molasses 

2 c. graham flour 

Method : 



Graham Bread 



2 c. white flour 
1 1 tsp. soda 
I tsp. salt 



Let stand in bread pan 40 minutes. Bake in a moderate oven 45 
minutes. 



Nut Bread I 

Ingredients : 

2 eggs 4 c. white flour 

^ c. sugar yi tsp. baking powder 

2 c. milk I tsp. salt 

I c. chopped walnut meats 
Method : 

Follow general directions for flour mixtures. Allow mixture 
to stand in the pan 20 minutes. Bake in a moderate oven 40-50 
minutes. 



192 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Nut Bread II 

Ingredients : 

^ c. molasses 2 c. whole wheat flour 

f c. chopped walnuts i c. white flour 

i| c. sour milk if tsp. soda 

i^ tsp. salt 

Method : 

Follow general directions for flour mixtures. Bake in bread pan 
in a moderate oven 40-45 minutes. 

Nut Bread III 

Ingredients : 

I c. molasses i tsp. salt 

i| c. water 2 tsp. baking powder 

4 c. graham flour ^ tsp. soda 

1 c. white flour 2 c. chopped walnuts 

Method : 

Follow directions for flour mixtures. Bake in bread pans in a 
moderate oven 35-40 minutes. 

Rolls 

Parker House Rolls 

Ingredients : 

2 c. scalded milk i tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. butter i yeast cake dissolved in 

2 tbsp. sugar | c. lukewarm water 

flour 
Method : 

Add butter, sugar, and salt to milk ; when lukewarm, add softened 
yeast cake and three cups of flour. Beat, cover, and let rise until 
light ; cut down, and add enough flour to knead (it will take about 
two and one half cups). Let rise again, toss on slightly floured 
board, knead, pat, and roll out to one third inch thickness. Shape 
with a biscuit cutter, first dipped in flour. 

Dip the handle of a case knife in flour, and with it make a crease 
through the middle of each piece ; brush over one half of each piece 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 193 

with melted butter, fold and press edges together. Place in greased 
pan, one inch apart, cover, let rise, and bake in hot oven 12 to 15 
minutes. As rolls rise they will part slightly and if hastened in 
rising are apt to lose their shape. 

Note : Parker House Rolls may be shaped by cutting or tearing off small 
pieces of dough and shaping round like a biscuit ; place in rows 
on floured board, cover and let rise 15 minutes. With the 
handle of large wooden spoon roll through center of each biscuit, 
brush edge of lower halves with melted butter, fold, press lightly, 
place in buttered pan one inch apart, cover, let rise and bake. 

Swedish Rolls 

Method : 

Prepare dough as for Parker House Rolls. When light, roll to 
I inch thickness. Spread with melted butter, sprinkle with sugar, 
cinnamon, and currants, and roll as closely as possible. Cut into 
shces I inch thick, allow to become very light, glaze, and bake about 
20 minutes. 

Dorcas Rolls 

Ingredients : 

4 small potatoes 2 tbsp. sugar 

2 c. scalded milk 2 tsp. salt 

2 tsp. butter f yeast cake 

i c. lukewarm water 
Method : 

Add hot riced potatoes to the milk, butter, salt, and sugar, softened 
yeast, and flour to make a soft batter. Let rise and add flour enough 
to make a dough. Knead and allow to double in bulk, knead again 
and shape in balls. Place on a greased sheet; let rise and bake 
15-20 minutes in a hot oven. 



Ingredients : 


Bread 


Sticks 


I c. milk 




I yeast cake softenec 


\ c. butter 




\ c. lukewarm water 


\\ tbsp. sugar 




white of an egg 


\ tsp. salt 




3! c. flour 










194 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Prepare as bread and add the beaten egg after the yeast. When 
ready to shape, cut off small pieces of dough. Shape as small bis- 
cuits and roll on an unfloured board with the hands until 8 inches in 
length, keeping uniform in size and having the ends rounded. Bring 
the fingers close to, but not over, the ends of the sticks. Let rise and 
bake in a hot oven 8-10 minutes. 



Hot Cross Buns 



Ingredients : 




I c. milk 


f tsp. cinnamon 


1 c. sugar 


3 c. flour 


2 tbsp. butter 


I egg 


^ tsp. salt 


I c. raisins 


1 yeast cake softened in 


J c. currants 



Method : 

Dissolve sugar, salt, and butter in the scalded milk; when luke- 
warm, add dissolved yeast cake, cinnamon, flour and egg well beaten ; 
when thoroughly mixed, add raisins, cover, and let rise overnight. 
In the morning shape in form of large biscuits, let rise, brush with 
beaten egg and bake 20 minutes ; cool, and make a cross on top of 
each with confectioners' frosting. 



Ingredients : 


Luncheon 


Rolls 


I c. milk 




I tsp. salt 


I c. sugar 




I yeast cake 


I egg 




^ c. lukewarm water 


J c. melted butter 


if c. flour 



Method : 

Prepare dough as for Parker House Rolls, adding the beaten egg 
before the flour. Shape in balls or oblongs, let rise and bake. 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 195 

Glaze for Rolls 
Glaze I Glaze II 

1 tsp. sugar yolk i egg 

2 tbsp. hot milk 2 tbsp. cold milk 

Apply before baking. Apply when half baked. 

Score Card 

Bread 

REVISED SCORE CARD OF MISS BEVIER^ 

General appearance 20 

Size (5) 

Shape (5) 

Crust (10) 

Color 

Character 

Depth 

Flavor 35 

Odor 
Taste 

Lightness 15 

Texture 20 

Coarse — fine 

Tough — tender 

Moist — dry 

Elastic or not 

Color 5 

Grain — Distribution of gas 5 

100 
1 University of Illinois Bulletin, vol. 10, No. 25. (March, 1913-) 



196 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Score Card 

Raised Biscuits 

General appearance 20 

Size (5) 

Shape (5) 

Crust (10) 

Color 
Character 
Depth 

Flavor 35 

Taste 
Odor 

Lightness 15 

Crumb 30 

Texture (20) 

Color (5) 

Grain (s) 

100 
Baking Powder Biscuits 

General Rules. 

Sift flour before measuring. Sift again with the baking powder 
and salt. 

Cut in the fat with two knives. Butter, lard, crisco, drippings, or 
chicken fat may be used. Half butter and half lard is a good com- 
bination. 

Add the liquid quickly. Toss and roll lightly on a floured board 
to ^ inch in thickness. Cut, moisten tops with milk, and bake 12-15 
minutes in a hot oven. 

Wheat Biscuits Graham or Entire Wheat Biscuits 

Ingredients : Ingredients : 

2 c. flour I c. graham flour 

4 tsp. baking powder i c. flour 

1 tsp. salt 5 tsp. baking powder 

2 tbsp. fat I tsp. salt 

3 
4 



- c. milk 2 tbsp. fat 

f-i c. milk 



2 tbsp. sugar 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 197 

Cheese Biscuits Emergency Biscuit 

Ingredients : Ingredients : 

2 c. flour I c. milk 

4 tsp. baking powder 2| c. flour 

i tsp. salt 4 tsp. baking powder 

I tbsp. fat 4 tbsp. shortening 

J c. milk h tsp. salt 

I c. grated cheese Mix as for baking powder bis- 

cuits but drop by spoonfuls on a 
greased pan. 

Corn Meal Biscuit Fruit Biscuit 

Same ingredients as Wheat Bis- Shape as Swedish Rolls. Be- 
cuit, substituting corn meal for fore roUing spread with 
f the flour. After cutting, turn h c raisins 

over as for Parker House Rolls. ^ tsp. cinnamon 

2 tbsp. sugar 
Bran Biscuit 
Ingredients : 

I c. bran i egg 

I c. entire wheat flour i c. milk 

I c. molasses h tsp. baking soda 

I tsp. salt 

Score Card 

Baking Powder Biscuits 
General appearance 20 

Size (5) 

Shape (5) 

Crust (10) 

Flavor 40 

Lightness ^^ 

Texture .* • * * ^° 

Coarse — fine 

Tough — tender 

Moist — dry 

Color S 

Grain 5 

100 



198 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

FOOD VALUES 
Baking Powder Biscuit 



Material 


w 

< 


51 

^0 


5 tn 

w a 





> B 

< 

U 


iJ w 

<2 
^ 
H < 


u 
$ 


Calcium 

(Calc. as CaO) 

Grams 


Phosphorus 

(Calc. as P2O5) 

Grams 


Iron 
Grams 


Flour . . 
Salt . . . 


2 C. 

i tsp. 


222.4 


24.9 


2.2 


166.5 


786 


.018 


•055 


•393 


.0031 


Baking powder 


3 tsp. 


8 










.006 




1 




Butter . . . 


i^bsp. 


19 


.19 


16.57 




150 


•015 


.005 


.006 




Milk . . . 


I C. 


202.8 


6.68 


8.12 


9.79 


140 


.021 
.06 


.324 


.427 


.0004 


Total, cooked I 


1 2 bis- 
cuits 


313 


31.78 


26.89 


176.31 


1076 


.384 


.826 1 


^0035 


loo-Calorie 


I bis- 




















Portion . 

■ 


cuit 


29.08 


2.9 


2.49 


15 


100 


.005 


•034 


.074 1 


.0003 



Griddlecakes 


AND 


Waffles 


(For 
Griddlecakes 
Sweet Milk 


General Method 


see below) 

Waffles 
• Sweet Milk 


Ingredients : 

1 c. flour 

2 tsp. baking powder 
I tsp. salt 

I tbsp. melted butter 


Ingredients : 
if c. flour 

3 tsp. baking powder 
\ tsp. salt 
I tbsp. melted butter 


I egg 
f c. milk 






2 eggs 
I c. milk 


Sour Milk 

Ingredients : 

2\ c. flour 
\ tsp. salt 
2 c. sour milk 
i\ tsp. soda 




Sour Milk 

Ingredients : 
i| c. flour 
\ tsp. soda 
\ tsp. salt 
I c. sour milk 


I egg 






2 eggs 

2 tbsp. melted butter 



^ If a phosphate baking powder be used, the phosphorus content of the product 
will of course be much higher than is here shown. 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 199 

Corn Meal Corn Meal 

Ingredients : Ingredients : 

I c. corn meal ^ c. corn meal 

I c. flour i§ c. boiling water 

4 tsp. baking powder i tsp. salt 

1 tsp. salt i| c. milk 

4 tbsp. sugar 2 tbsp. sugar 

2 eggs 2 tbsp. melted butter 
I qt. scalded milk 2 c. flour 

Cook meal and milk 5 minutes 3 tsp. baking powder 

in a double boiler. 2 eggs 

Cook meal and water 20 
minutes in a double boiler. 

General Method 
General Rules for Mixing. 

Sift flour, and sift with salt, sugar, and baking powder. Separate 
eggs, beat yolks thoroughly, and add to the milk. Add the liquids to 
the dry ingredients. Add the melted butter and fold in the stifily 
beaten whites of eggs. 

General Rules for Frying. 

Grease irons carefully with lard, crisco, or salt pork. Fry mix- 
ture as soon as mixed. Serve immediately with butter and sirup or 
butter and powdered sugar. 

Griddlecakes. 

Drop mixture by spoonfuls on a hot griddle. When puffed, full 
of bubbles and cooked on edges, turn and brown the other side. 

Waffles. 

Put a tbsp. of mixture in each compartment near center of iron, 
cover, and mixture will spread to fill iron. Turn and brown other side. 

Swedish Timbale Cases 

Ingredients : 

f c. flour I c. milk 

^ tsp. salt I egg 

I tsp. olive oil 



200 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Sift flour and salt. Add slightly beaten egg and the milk. Beat 
until smooth. Add the olive oil. 

To make Timhale Cases 

Plain and fluted irons of various shapes mounted on a long handle 
are used for shaping Swedish Timbale Cases. 

To use : dip the iron into the hot fat, let stand two or three minutes, 
then drain and ,dip into the batter — held in measuring cup — to 
half an inch of the top of iron, return at once to the fat and hold 
there until the batter is crisp and lightly colored, then remove from 
the iron and turn upside down on soft paper to drain. If, on dipping 
the iron into the batter, the batter does not cling to it, the iron has 
not been heated enough. If the fat sizzles considerably and the 
case spreads out and drops from the iron, the mold is too hot. If the 
iron is lowered too far into the batter, the case will spread over the 
top of the iron and be troublesome to remove. The finished cases 
should be very crisp. A small, deep pan of fat gives best results. 

• Fritters 

Ingredients : 

1 c. flour rind i lemon 

2 tbsp. sugar 2 eggs 

\ tsp. salt ^ c. milk 

Method : 

Same as Muffins (page 202). 

Apple Fritters 

Method : 

Pare apples and cut in eighths, or pare, core, and cut in |-inch slices. 
Sprinkle with sugar, lemon juice, cinnamon, or nutmeg. Dip in 
batter and fry in deep fat. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve 
at once. 

Banana Fritters 

Method : 

Remove skins from bananas. Scrape. Cut in halves lengthwise 
and then cut in 2 pieces crosswise or in i-inch pieces. Sprinkle 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 20I 

with powdered sugar and lemon juice and let stand half an hour. 
Drain. Dip in batter and fry in deep fat. Sprinkle with powdered 
sugar or serve with Grape or Currant Jelly. 

Pineapple Fritters 
Method : 

Drain sirup from canned pineapple. Cut in pieces ; dip in batter 
and fry in deep fat. 

Doughnuts I 

Ingredients : 

2 tsp. butter i c. flour 

\ c. sugar \ tsp. salt 

1 egg f tsp. baking powder 

2 tbsp. milk \ tsp. cinnamon 

Doughnuts II 

3 eggs 5 c. flour 

I c. sugar 2 tsp. cream of tartar 

I c. milk I tsp. soda 

\ tsp. nutmeg or mace i tsp. salt 

Method : 

Same as for cookies. The dough should be as soft as can be handled. 
Roll to \ inch in thickness, cut in rings and fry in hot fat until golden 
brown. Turn often in the fat. Drain, cool, and sugar by shaking in 
a paper bag which contains a small amount of powdered sugar. 

Comforts 

Ingredients : 

1 c. milk I c. sugar 

2 eggs 2§ c. flour 

I c. raisins 3 tsp. baking powder 

I tsp. salt 
Method : 

Same as doughnuts. The mixture is a batter. Drop from spoon 
into hot fat ; fry a light brown. Drain and sugar. 



202 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Muffins 
General Rules : 

Sift flour before measuring. Sift again with baking powder, salt, 
and sugar. Beat eggs slightly, add the milk and pour this mixture 
gradually into the dry ingredients. Add the melted butter. Bake 
in greased muffin tin in a moderate oven 20-25 minutes. 



One-egg Muffins 

Ingredients : 

2 c. flour 2 tbsp. sugar 

4 tsp. baking powder i c. milk 

I tsp. salt 2 tbsp. melted butter 

I egg 



Wheat Muffins 

Ingredients : 

2 c. flour I c. milk 

2 tsp. baking powder 2 tbsp. melted butter 

I tsp. salt 2 eggs 



Entire Wheat or Graham Muffins 

Ingredients : 

I c. graham flour i tbsp. sugar 

I c. flour I egg 

3 tsp. baking powder i c. milk 

I tsp. salt 2 tbsp. melted butter 



Corn Meal Muffins 

Ingredients : 

I c. flour I tsp. salt 

1 c. corn meal i egg 

2 tbsp. sugar i c. milk 

4 tsp. baking powder 2 tbsp. melted butter 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 203 

Berkshire Muffins 
Ingredients : 

I c. corn meal 1 Let stand 2 tbsp. sugar 

f c. scalded milk / 5 minutes § tsp. salt 

I c. cooked rice i egg 

1 c. flour 3 tsp. baking powder 2 tbsp. melted butter 

,. Bran Muffins 

Ingredients : 

2 c. bran i tsp. soda 3 tbsp. molasses 
I c. flour \ c. butter i\ c. sour milk 

Method : 

Rub butter into the dry ingredients. Add the liquids. Bake in 
a hot oven. 

Bran Muffins with Com 

Ingredients : 

I c. corn meal i egg 

I c. white flour i| c. milk 

1 c. bran 2 tbsp. molasses 

2 tbsp. melted butter i tsp. salt 
i^ tsp. soda I 



> or 2I tsp. baking powder 
3 tsp. cream tartar J 



, . Rice 


Muffins 


Ingredients : 






3 c. flour 




i^ c. milk 


I c. cooked rice 




I egg 


2 tbsp. baking powder 




3 tbsp. melted butter 


3 tbsp. sugar 




1 tsp. salt 


Combine the rice and milk. 






Ingredients : 


Sticks 


I c. corn meal 




1 c. hot cooked hominy or rice 


f c. flour 




\ c. melted butter 


3 tsp. baking powder 




I c. milk 


\ tsp. salt 




I egg 


Method : 






Bake in Bread Stick pans. 







204 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Blueberry Muffins 

Ingredients : 

I c. butter 2 c. flour 

i c. sugar I tsp. baking powder 

I egg I c. blueberries 

I c. milk 

Method : 

Fold in the blueberries last. 

Southern Pone 

Ingredients : 

1 c. corn meal 2 eggs 

2 c. milk 3 tbsp. butter 

1 tsp. salt I tsp. baking powder 

Method : 

Scald milk and add gradually the meal, salt, and butter. Cool 
slightly and add eggs, well beaten, and the baking powder. Turn 
into a buttered, earthen dish and bake in a moderate oven 35 min- 
utes. Cut in pie-shaped pieces for serving. 

Southern Spoon Corn Bread 

Ingredients : 

2 c. white corn meal yolks 2 eggs 
2| c. boiling water whites 2 eggs 

1 1 tbsp. melted butter i^ c. buttermilk 

1 1 tsp. salt I tsp. baking soda 

Method : 

Add meal gradually to the boiling water and let cool. Add butter, 
salt, egg yolks slightly beaten, and buttermilk mixed with soda. 
Beat 2 minutes and fold in whites of eggs beaten until stiff. Turn 
into a buttered earthen dish and bake in hot oven 40 minutes. Serve 
at breakfast. Eat with spoon. 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



205 



Score Card 

Muffins 

General Appearance 25 

Size (5) 

Shape (10) 

Crust (10) 

Color 
Character 
Depth 

Flavor 35 

Taste 
Odor 

Texture 30 

Lightness (10) 
Tenderness (10) 
Grain (10) 

Color 10 

100 







FOOD 


VALUES 


















MuflSns 


Material 


Id 

a 

(A 

< 




2 tn 

WE 

o2 


tfl 


Cd 
H 

h 

go 

3 


H < 
U 


H 

d 

$ 


Calcium 

(Calc. as CaO) 

Grams 


Phosphorus 

(Calc. as P2O6) 

Grams 


H It 


Flour . . . 


I c. 


III. 2 


12.45 


I. II 


83.28 


393 


.0098 


.027 


.196 


.0015 


Sugar , . . 


I tsp. 


4.8 






4.8 


19 


.0007 








Butter . . . 


I tbsp. 


14 


.14 


II.9 




108 


.0106 


.003 


.004 




Milk . . . 


^c. 


122 


4.02 


4.88 


6.1 


84 


.0112 


.193 


.255 


.0002 


Baking powder 


2 tsp. 


7-7 










.003 




1 




Egg. . . . 


I 


45-3 
242.2 


6.07 


4-75 




67 


•03 


.040 


.161 


.0012 


Total, cooked 


6 


22.68 


22.64 


94.18 


671 


.0653 


.264 


.6x5' 


.0029 


1 00- Calorie 






















Portion . , 


I 


35.08 


3-37 


3-37 


14.04 


100 


.009 


.036 


.086 1 


.0004 



1 See footnote, p. ic 



2o6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Popovers 

Ingredients : 

I c. flour I c. milk 

I tsp. salt 1-2 eggs 

I tsp. melted butter (may be omitted) 
Method : 

Mix salt and flour, sift into bowl. Make an indentation in flour 
and drop in the unbeaten egg. Add the milk gradually, stirring in 
widening circles from the middle. If a little lumpy, beat for a minute 
with a Dover egg beater. Turn into hot buttered custard cups or 
gem pans. Bake in a hot oven. Have the oven very hot for the 
first 15 minutes, then reduce temperature and continue baking 30 
to 35 minutes longer. 



Graham Popovers 

Ingredients : 

f c. entire wheat flour | c. milk 

^ c. flour I egg 

\ tsp. salt ^ tsp. melted butter 

Prepare and bake as described under Popovers. 



Cream Puffs I 

Ingredients : 

^ c. butter 4 eggs 

I c. boiling water i c. pastry flour 

Method : 

Put butter and water in saucepan and heat to boiling point, add 
flour all at once and beat vigorously. Remove from fire as soon as 
mixed, and add unbeaten eggs one at a time, beating until thoroughly 
mixed between the addition of eggs. Drop by spoonfuls on a buttered 
sheet 1 1 inches apart, shaping as nearly circular as possible, having 
mixture slightly piled in center. Bake 30 minutes in a moderate 
oven. With a sharp knife make in each an incision large enough to 
admit cream filling. 



BATTERS. AND DOUGHS 207 

Cream Puffs II 

Ingredients : 

\ c. butter (scant) \ c. flour 

\ c. boiling water 2 eggs 

fruit preserve or marmalade 

Put butter in small saucepan and pour on water. When water 
again reaches boiling point add flour all at once and stir until mixture 
leaves sides of saucepan, cleaving to spoon. Remove from fire and 
add eggs unbeaten, one at a time, beating mixture between addition 
of eggs. Drop by spoonfuls into hot fat and fry until weU puffed 
and brown. Drain. Make an opening and fill with jeUy, preserve, 
or marmalade. Sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

Eclairs 

Shape cream puff mixture 4^ inches long and i inch wide by forcing 
through a pastry bag and tube. Bake 25 minutes in a moderate 
oven. Fill with vanilla, coffee, or chocolate cream filling. Frost 
with chocolate frosting. 

Cream Filling 
Ingredients : 

I c. sugar 2 c. scalded milk, chocolate, 

^ c. flour or coffee 

1 tsp. salt I tsp. vanflla or 

2 eggs I tsp. lemon juice 

Method : 

Mix dry ingredients in double boiler and pour the liquid in 
gradually. Cook the mixture 10 minutes. Add the eggs slightly 
beaten and cook 2 minutes. Cool and flavor. 

Flour Pastes 
Macaroni; Spaghetti; Noodles 

Boiled Macaroni or Spaghetti 

Ingredients : 

\ c. macaroni or spaghetti broken in pieces 2 qts. boiUng water 
I c. cream i tbsp. salt 



2o8 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Cook macaroni or spaghetti in boiling salted water 20 minutes, or 
until soft ; drain in strainer, pour over it cold water to prevent pieces 
from adhering ; add cream, reheat, and season with salt. 

Noodles 

Ingredients : 

I egg \ tsp. salt 

2 c. flour 

Method : 

Beat egg slightly, add salt, and flour enough to make a very stiff 
dough ; knead on a slightly floured board, and roll as thin as possible, 
which may be as thin as paper. Cover with towel and set aside for 
20 minutes ; then cut in fancy shapes — using sharp knife or French 
vegetable cutter ; or the thin sheet may be rolled like a jelly roll, 
cut in thin slices and pieces unrolled. 

When eggs are expensive, one tablespoon of water may be beaten 
with each egg. 

When noodles are perfectly dry, put them into a glass jar or paste- 
board box. They will keep indefinitely. 

Baked Macaroni with Cheese 

Put a layer of boiled macaroni in buttered baking dish, sprinkle 
with grated cheese ; reheat, pour over white sauce, cover with buttered 
crumbs, and bake until crumbs are brown. 

Macaroni, Italian Style 

Ingredients : 

1 c. macaroni i^ c. scalded milk 

2 tbsp. butter | c. grated cheese 
2 tbsp. flour salt and paprika 

\ c. finely chopped cold boiled ham 
Method : 

Break macaroni in one-inch pieces and cook in boiling, salted 
water, drain, and reheat in sauce made of butter, flour, and milk to 
which is added cheese. As soon as cheese is melted, season with salt 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



209 



and paprika and turn on to a serving dish, 
garnish with parsley. 



Sprinkle with ham and 



Macaroni with Cheese and Tomato Sauce 

Ingredients : 

I c. boiled macaroni 2 c. tomato sauce 

^ c. grated cheese seasonings 

Method : 

Arrange the macaroni in a buttered baking dish, pour over this the 
tomato sauce and cheese, cover with buttered crumbs and heat in a 
moderate oven until the crumbs are brown. 

Grated cheese may be sprinkled on the top instead of buttered 
crumbs. 

Spaghetti Loaf 

Ingredients : 

I c. scalded cream or milk i c. grated cheese 

I c. bread crumbs i tbsp. onion juice 

I c. cooked spaghetti i tbsp. chopped parsley 

^ eggs I tbsp. green pepper 

I tbsp. red pepper or pimento 
Method : 

Scald cream, add the bread crumbs, cooked spaghetti and cheese, 
and eggs slightly beaten. Chop green and red peppers and add 
to first mixture. Pour into a buttered bread pan, place in hot water, 
and bake in a slow oven until firm and slightly browned. Turn on 
a platter and surround with tomato sauce. 

Cookies 
classification 



Dropped 

Peanut 
Boston 
Oatmeal I 
Oatmeal II 
Sponge drops 



Rolled 

Sugar 
Chocolate 
Molasses 
Orange circles 
Hermits 



Spread 

Brownies 
Fairy gingerbread 
Rolled wafers 
Chocolate chips 



210 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Margarets (fancy meringue pans) Date meringues 

Chocolate wafers Vanilla wafers 

Dropped : 

Thick hatters. Drop from tsp. on well-greased sheets i inch apart. 
Sponge Cookies may be put together with marshmallows or boiled 
frosting. 

Rolled: 

Stiff doughs. Chill before rolling out. Use fancy cutters. Gar- 
nish with raisins, currants, sugar, spice, candied cherries, angelica, 
orange peel. 

Filled cookies. Two cookies may be put together with fruit and 
nut fining before baking. 

Two colors. A sugar cooky cut in fancy shape may be placed on 
a round chocolate cooky before baking. 

Spread: 

Thick batters. Spread with spatula on well-greased Russian sheets 
or on the back of a dripping pan. Cut in squares or oblongs or cut 
and roll while hot. 

Nut wafers. Sprinkle chopped nuts on mixture before baking. 



General Rules for Mixing Cookies 

Eggs should not be separated ; otherwise proceed as for cake. 
Bake one cooky to see if mixture is of proper consistency. 



Dropped Cookies 

Chocolate Wafers 

Ingredients : 

4 tbsp. butter § c. flour 

8 tbsp. sugar | tsp. salt 

I egg I tsp. vanilla 

I oz. chocolate | c. nuts 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



211 





Oatmeal I 


Ingredients : 




4 tbsp. butter 


1 c. nuts 


3 tbsp. lard 


i^ c. flour 


I c. sugar 


^ tsp. salt 


I egg 


I tsp. soda 


5 tbsp. milk 


f tsp. cinnamon 


ij c. rolled oats 


^ tsp. cloves 


5 c. raisins 


1 tsp. allspice 




Oatmeal II 


Ingredients : 




I tbsp. butter 


2 c. rolled oats 


I c. sugar 


2 eggs 


^ tsp. salt 


I tsp. baking powder. 




I tsp. vanilla 


Boston Cookies 


Ingredients : 




I c. butter 


^ tsp. salt 


i| c. sugar 


I tsp. cinnamon 


3 eggs 


I c. chopped nuts 


I tsp. soda 


(hickory or English walnuts) 


i^ tbsp. cold water 


^ c. currants 


3I c. flour 


^ c. raisins, seeded (or seedless), 




chopped 




Margarets 


Ingredients : 




\ c. butter 


I egg well beaten 


^ c. powdered sugar 


1 c. flour 


\ c. molasses 


I c. pecan meats chopped 



k 



Garnish top of each with half a pecan. 



212 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 





Drop 


Molasses 


Cookies 


Ingredients : 








I c. molasses 






I c. sour cream or 


I c. sugar 






f c. butter 


I egg 






I tsp. each : 


I tsp. soda 






ginger 


I tsp. baking 


powder 


cinnamon 



about 3 c. flour 
Method : 

Follow general directions for flour mixtures. Spread the mixture 
in a well-greased dripping pan and bake in a moderate oven 10-20 
minutes. Cut in squares and remove with spatula to a rack or cloth 
to cool. 



Peanut Cookies 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. butter \ c. flour 
\ c. sugar 1 tsp. salt 
I egg 2 tbsp. milk 
I tsp. baking powder \ tsp. lemon 
\ c. chopped nuts 


juice 


Ingredients : 

whites 4 eggs 
\ tsp. vanilla 


Meringues 

i\ c. powdered 
I c. granulated 


sugar or 
sugar 



Beat whites until stiff, add gradually the sugar and continue beat- 
ing until mixture will hold shape, and add flavoring. Shape with 
spoon or pastry bag and tube on wet board covered with letter paper 
or on greased paper. Bake 30 minutes in a very slow oven. Re- 
move from paper when cold. 

Date Meringues 

Ingredients : 

\ lb. dates whites 4 eggs 

^ lb. almonds i c. sugar 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



213 



Method : 

Wash and stone dates. Blanch almonds. Mix with dates and 
chop finely. Beat whites of eggs until stiff. Add sugar gradually 
and continue beating. Fold in date mixture. Drop by spoonfuls 
on greased paper. Bake in a " moderate " oven until delicately 
brown (recording the temperature). Remove at once from paper. 



Ingredients : 


Sponge Drops 


whites 3 eggs 




\ c. flour 


5 c. powdered sugar 


1 tsp. salt 


yolks 2 eggs 




\ tsp. vanilla 




RoUed 


Cookies 


Ingredients : 


Orange 


5 Circles 


3 tbsp. butter 




i| c. flour 


f c. sugar 




salt 


rind I orange 




juice I orange 


Ingredients : 


Ginger Snaps 


I c. butter 




4 c. flour 


I c. sugar 




I tsp. soda 


I c. molasses 




I tbsp. ginger 




I 


egg 


Ingredients : 


Molasses 


\ c. butter 




\ tsp. salt 


\ c. boiling water 




I tbsp. ginger 


f c. molasses 




I tsp. cinnamon 


I tsp. soda 




\ c. sugar 



flour 



214 



LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 


Sugar Cookies 


^ c. butter 


2j c. flour 


I c. sugar 


2 tsp. baking powder 


I egg 


1 tsp. salt 


I c. milk 


I tsp. vanilla 


Ingredients : 


Vanilla Wafers 


1 c. butter and lard in equal 2 c. flour 


proportions 


2 tsp. baking powder 


I c. sugar 


^ tsp. salt 


I egg 


2 tsp. vanilla 


1 c. milk 




Ingredients : 


Thin Cookies 


1 c. butter 


2 tsp. baking powder 


I c. sugar 


flour 


I tbsp. milk 


2 eggs 


Ingredients : 


Chocolate Cookies 


^ c. butter 


2^ c. flour 


I c. sugar 


2 tsp. baking powder 


I egg 


1 tsp. salt 


I c. milk 


I tsp. vanilla 




2 oz. chocolate 


Ingredients : 


Hermits 


f c. butter 


2^ c. flour 


I c. brown sugar 


^ tsp. salt 


2 eggs 


I tsp. cinnamon 


f tsp. soda 


f tsp. each clove, mace, nutmeg 


I tbsp. hot water 


I c. raisins 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



215 



Ingredients : 

\ c. butter 

1 c. sugar 

2 eggs 



Spread Cookies 
Chocolate Chips 



4 tbsp. melted chocolate 
I tsp. vanilla 
I c. flour 



Ingredients , 



Chocolate Brownies 



I c. sugar 

\ c. melted butter 

1 egg unbeaten 

2 oz. chocolate melted 



J tsp. vanilla 

\ c. flour 

\ c. walnut meats cut in pieces 



Method : 

Mix ingredients in order given. Line a seven-inch square with 
paraffin paper. Spread mixture evenly in pan and bake in a slow 
oven (recording the temperature). As soon as taken from oven 
turn from pan, remove paper, and cut in strips. 



Nut Wafers 



Ingredients : 

\ c. butter (chicken fat may be 

used) 
J c. sugar 
I egg 
i| c. flour 



2 tbsp. milk 

\ tsp. salt 

I tsp. baking powder 

I tsp. vanilla 

4 c. nut meats (chopped) 



Ingredients : 

\ c. butter 

I c. light brown sugar 



Fairy Gingerbread 



2 *- 



milk 
lie. flour 



2 tsp. ginger 



2l6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Score Cards 

Rolled Cookies 

General appearance 30 

Uniformity (5) 
Size (5) 

Shape (10) 

Color (5) 

Surface (5) 

Texture 20 

Lightness (10) 
Color (5) 

Crispness (5) 

Flavor 50 

Taste (25) 

Odor (25) 

100 

Dropped Cookies 

General appearance ■ 30 

Uniformity (5) 
Shape (10) 

Size (5) 

Color (5) 

Surface (5) 

Texture 20 

Lightness (5) 
Tenderness (10) 
Color (5) 

Flavor 50 

100 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



217 



FOOD VALUES 
Molasses Cookies 



Material 


< 


^0 


5g 

>-i 
Pi 


SB 




h 




1 

$ 


Calcium 

(Calc. as CaO) 

Grams 


Phosphorus 

(Calc. as P2O5) 

Grams 


t/i 

^0 


Molasses . 


I c. 


326.3 


8.07 




233.05 


965 


.042 


1. 118 


•965 


.048 


Butter. . 


\c. 


56.7 


.57 


48.2 




436 


.04 


.013 


.017 




Flour . . 


3C. 


333'^ 


37.36 


3-34 


249.87 


1178 


.03 


.082 


.589 


.0047 


Soda . . 


h tsp. 


2.1 










.0004 








Salt . . 


2 tsp. 


9.2 










.0006 








Ginger 


I tbsp. 


6 










.003 








Totals, / 
cooked \ 


large / 


628.4 


46.46 


51.56 


482.92 


2579 


.116 


1. 213 


1. 561 


.0527 


icx)-CaIorie 






















Portion 


I large 


23.38 


1-75 


1.96 


18.45 


100 


.004 


.047 


.062 


.0020 



Hermits 



Butter. 


ic. 


84.2 


.842 


71.57 




647.5 


.0425 


.019 


.025 




Sugar . 


fc. 


137 






137 


548 


.02 








Egg . 


I 


44.5 


5.96 


4.67 




66 


.036 


.039 


.158 


.CX)I2 


Milk . 


2 tbsp. 


42.8 


1.41 


1. 71 


2.14 


30 


.0028 


.069 


.09 


.0001 


Flour . 


ifc. 


194.6 


21.79 


1.94 


145.75 


688 


.021 


.048 


.344 


.0027 


Raisins / 


Ic. 


51.3 


1.33 


1.49 


39.03 


175 


.0117 


.035 


.14 


.0017 


Spices . 




11.3 


















Total, 






















cooked 


52 


479 


38.91 


81.39 


323.92 


2153 


.134 


.210 


.757 


.0057 


loo-Calori 


5 small 




















Portion 


3 


22.22 


1.55 


3.77 


15.2 


100 


.0057 


.0105 


.0378 


.0002 



CHAPTER XIV 
CAKE 

Cakes with Butter 

General Rules for Mixing. 

Measure all ingredients, and grease the pans. Mix and sift dry 
ingredients except sugar. Cream butter by continued rubbing against 
the bowl with a wooden spoon. (Any edible fat may be used in place 
of butter.) Add the sugar gradually and continue creaming until 
mixture is smooth. Beat yolk of egg until thick and lemon-colored; 
add to the butter and sugar. Add the flour and milk alternately; 
add vanilla. Beat whites until stiff and dry ; cut and fold into the 
mixture. When fruit or nuts are used, save out a little flour to cover 
them and add to the cake just before the whites of the eggs. Fill 
greased pans half full, with sides well filled and a slight depression in 
the center. 

General Rules for Baking. "^ 

Temperature of oven — moderate. 
Time depends on thickness of cake. 

a. cup cakes, 12-15 minutes 
layer cakes, 20-30 minutes 
loaf cakes, 30-40 minutes 

b. quarters of time 

1. begins to rise 

2. continues rising; begins to brown 

3. finishes browning 

4. shrinks from pan 

218 



CAKE 219 

Care after Baking. 

a. loosen edges with knife 

b. invert on cooler 

c. turn right side up after a few minutes 

Standard Cake 

Ingredients : 

I c. butter h c milk 

1 c. sugar i| c. flour 

2 eggs 2 1 tsp. baking powder 

I tsp. lemon juice or I tsp. vanilla 

Modifications : 

Spice 

I tsp. spice sifted with the flour 

Nut 

1 c. chopped nuts added before folding in the whites 

Chocolate 

2 oz. melted and added after adding the yolks 

Currant 

I c. added before folding in the whites 

Ribbon 

Double the recipe and bake | as 2 plain layers. To remaining 5 
add I tbsp. molasses, i tsp. spice, and | c. raisins. 

White Cake 
Ingredients : 

^ c. butter 2 c. flour 

I c. sugar 4 tsp. baking powder 

whites 4 eggs I c. milk 

I tsp. almond extract 

Spanish Cake 

Ingredients : 

I c. butter if c. flour 

I c. sugar 3 tsp. baking powder 

1 c. milk i| tsp. cinnamon 

2 eggs i tsp. salt 



220 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Chocolate Cake I 

Ingredients : 

3 oz. chocolate § c. sugar 

Boil until thickens to a paste and cool. 

I c. butter 

1 c. sugar 

2 eggs 
I tsp. vanilla 



1 c. milk 
Add to : 

2 c. flour 

I tsp. baking soda 
^ tsp. salt 
^ c. milk 



Chocolate Cake II 

Ingredients : 

2 oz. chocolate -\ 

4 tbsp. butter } Boil until it thickens to a paste and cool 

I c. boiling water J 

Add 



I c. sugar 
I egg 



I c. flour 
f tsp. soda 



T c. sour milk 



Ingredients : 

1 c. butter 

2 c. sugar 
I c. milk 



Lady Baltimore Cake 



3^ c. flour 

2 tsp. baking powder 

whites 6 eggs 



3 c. sugar 



Lady Baltimore Cake Filling 

I c. water 



Boil to thread stage and pour on stiffly beaten whites of 3 eggs. 
When begins to thicken add i c. chopped raisins, pecans, and figs. 



Ingredients : 
I lb. butter 
I lb. sugar 
10 eggs 



Pound Cake 



I lb. flour 

1 tsp. mace 

2 tbsp. brandy 



CAKE 221 

Gold Cake 

Ingredients : 

s 8 yolks of eggs 2^ c. flour 

f c. butter i tsp. cream of tartar 

i^ c. sugar I tsp. soda 



c. milk I tbsp. vanilla 



Method : 

Mix soda and flour and sift 3 times. Cream butter and sugar, 
beat yolks until very light, add cream of tartar, then add this to the 
butter and sugar. Mix well and add milk, flour, and flavoring. 
This recipe is particularly good for small cakes. 

Date Loaf Cake 

Ingredients : 

I lb. dates (after stoning) i c. flour 

I lb. pecans — shelled 4 eggs 

I c. sugar 1 1 tsp. baking powder 

1 tsp. brandy or I tsp. salt 

__ , , I tsp. vanilla 

Method : 

Wash and stone dates. Wash pecans and add to date pulp. Chop 
slightly. Beat yolks of eggs until foamy and mix with the sugar 
through the date and nut mixture. Add flavoring and the sifted dry 
ingredients and fold in the beaten whites. Bake as a loaf 50 minutes 
in a moderate oven. 

Orange Loaf Cake 

Ingredients : 

2 c. sugar 4 eggs 

§ c. butter 2| c. flour 

§ c. orange juice 3 tsp. baking powder 

grated rind of i orange ^ tsp. salt 

Method : 

Cream the butter, add the sugar and yolks of the eggs. Add to 
this the grated rind of i orange. Mix and sift the dry ingredients 
and add alternately with the liquid to the first mixture. Line a deep 
pan with paraffin paper and allow the cake to bake in moderate oven 
35-40 minutes. 



222 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 

1 c. butter 

2 c. sugar 

4 eggs 

2 tbsp. molasses 

I c. cold boiled coffee 

3f c. flour 

5 tsp. baking powder 



Coffee Cake 



2 tbsp. brandy 



I tsp. cinnamon 
^ tsp. cloves 
^ tsp. mace 
I tsp. allspice 
J c. raisins 
T c. currants 



c. citron 



Apple Sauce Cake 



Ingredients : _ 
I c. butter 
I c. sugar 
I egg 

I c. molasses 
I c. apple sauce (unsweetened) 



3 c. flour 

I tsp. soda 

I tsp. allspice, cinnamon, 

and clove 
^ grated nutmeg 



c. raisins and currants 



Ingredients : 
I lb. butter 
I lb. brown sugar 
I lb. flour 
3 lb. raisins 
3 lb. currants 
I lb. mixed fruit peel 



Fruit Cake 



juice of 2 lemons 



12 eggs 
§ lb. almonds 
2 tsp. nutmeg 
2 tsp. cloves 

2 tsp. cinnamon 

3 tbsp. vanilla 



Ingredients : 



I c. molasses 
^ c. sugar 

1 c. shortening 

2 tsp. soda 



Method . 



Molasses Layer Cake 



I tsp. cloves 



1 c. hot water 

2 eggs 

2§ c. flour 

I tsp. cinnamon 



Follow directions for flour mixtures and bake as a layer cake. 



CAKE 223 

Filling for Molasses Cake 

Ingredients : 

1 c. milk i c. sugar 

J cake chocolate i tbsp. cornstarch 

I tsp. vanilla 

Method : 

Melt the chocolate in a double boiler. Mix the sugar and corn- 
starch and add gradually to the melted chocolate alternately with the 
milk. Stir the mixture with a wooden spoon constantly in order to 
prevent lumps and to make a smooth paste. Allow the whole to 
cook in a double boiler 15 minutes. Add flavoring, and when custard 
has cooled slightly, use as a filling for the molasses cake. 

Note : Whipped cream may be used as the upper covering. This cake is 
best used as a dessert. 

Canned Raspberry Cake 

Ingredients : 

2 eggs ^ nutmeg 

I c. brown sugar i tbsp. cinnamon 

I c. butter i tbsp. sour milk 

I c. canned strawberries or rasp- i tsp. soda 

berries i c. flour 

Hot Water Ginger Cake 

Ingredients : 

I c. molasses i tsp. soda 

I c. bofling water ij tsp. ginger 

2I c. flour ^ tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. melted butter 

Sweet or Sour Milk Ginger Cake 

Ingredients : 

I c. butter ij c. flour 

^ c. sugar I tsp. ginger 

^ c. molasses | tsp. cinnamon 

I egg ^ tsp. soda 

h c. milk — sour or sweet 



224 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Ginger Cup Cakes 

Ingredients : 

I c. butter i tsp. ginger 

I c. sugar I tsp. cloves 

1 c. molasses i c. boiling water 

2 eggs 2^ c. flour 

I tsp. cinnamon 2 tsp. soda 

I tsp. salt 



Ingredients: 



Roxbury Cakes 



I c. butter i| c. flour 

1 c. sugar I tsp. soda or 

f c. molasses 2 tsp. baking powder 

2 eggs I tsp. cloves 

^ c. milk — sour or sweet | tsp. nutmeg 

I c. nuts § c. raisins or dates 

Cakes without Butter 

General Rules for Mixing. 

Sift flour and sugar several times before measuring each. Beat 
yolks until lemon-colored, add sugar gradually and flavoring. Partly 
fold in stiffly beaten whites. Fold in the flour sifted with the salt. 
The folding should be carefully done so that the mixture will not 
become stiff. 

General Rules for Baking. 

Use a tube cake pan — unbuttered. Slow oven — 40-60 minutes. 
Oven door should not be opened during first 20 minutes. After 
baking, invert pan on cake cooler and do not remove cake until cold. 

Sponge Cakes 

Yellow Sponge Cake 

Ingredients : 

yolks of 6 eggs grated rind ^ lemon 

I c. sugar whites of 6 eggs 

I tbsp. lemon juice i c. flour 

J tsp. salt 



CAKE 225 

Boiled Sponge Cake 

Ingredients : 

I c. sugar 5 c. water 

I c. flour 6 eggs 

Boil sugar and water to thread stage. Add to 6 whites beaten stiff, 
and beat until cold. Fold in flour sifted with i tsp. salt and a few 
grains of cream of tartar. Fold in the well-beaten yolks. 



Sponge Drops 

Ingredients : 

3 whites eggs I c. flour 

2 yolks eggs 5 tsp. salt 

I c. powdered sugar j tsp. vanilla 



Drop from teaspoon on buttered sheets. 



Sponge Cakes with Baking Powder 

When eggs are expensive, the number may be decreased, and bak- 
ing powder used to help raise the mixture. 



Hot Water Sponge Cake 

Ingredients : 

yolks of 3 eggs 2 tsp. baking powder 

I c. sugar whites 3 eggs 

I c. flour grated rind ^ orange 

juice of orange and enough hot water to make ^ cup 



« Sponge Cake 

Ingredients : 

3 eggs I tsp. baking powder 

I c. sugar I c. cold water 

I c. flour I tsp. vanilla 

I tsp. salt 



226 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Jelly Roll 

Ingredients : 

I c. sugar I c. flour 

5 eggs I tsp. baking powder 

I tsp. vanilla i tsp. salt 

Line oblong pan with greased paper. When baked, remove paper, 
spread with jelly and roll. 

White Sponge Cake 

Ingredients : 

whites of 8 eggs i tsp. vanilla 

I tsp. cream tartar | tsp. salt 

I c. sugar, fine granulated f c. flour 

Mocha Cakes 
Bake sponge cake mixture in a shallow pan. See below. 

Sponge Cake for Mocha Cakes 

Ingredients: 

yolks 2 eggs grated rind ^ lemon 

I c. sugar whites 2 eggs 

I tbsp. lemon juice | c. flour 

salt 

Method : 

Beat yolks until creamy ; add sugar, beat well, lemon juice. Fold 
in stiffly beaten whites ; when partially folded in, fold in flour. Bake 
in unbuttered pan in a slow oven. 

Cut cake in small circles, — put together in 3 layers with thin 
coating of frosting ; cover sides with frosting and roll in fresh coco- 
nut or chopped nuts. Ornament top with frosting. 

Frosting for Mocha Cakes 

Ingredients : 

f c. butter i c. powdered sugar 

Method : 

Cream the butter and add the sugar. Add i c. cream filling 
(cooled). Add ^ tsp. vanilla, i| oz. melted chocolate. 



CAKE 227 

Genoese Cakes 

Bake jelly roll mixture in a shallow pan. Have mixture when 
baked about f inch thick. Cut the cake into fancy shapes, dip each 
in glaze, allow this to cool and then redip the cakes in soft fondant, 
colored and flavored. These may be decorated with the following: 

cherries citron 

nuts angelica 

candied violet leaves candied rose leaves 

Glaze 

Ingredients : 

I c. sugar § c. water 

Method : 

Put the sugar and water in a saucepan and stir the mixture until 
the sugar is dissolved. Allow the sirup to cook until a hard ball 
forms in cold water ; when the sirup has cooled slightly, use it to 
glaze Genoese cakes. 

Score Cards 

Loaf Cake 
General appearance 25 

Size (5) 

Shape (10) 

Color (5) 

Surface (5) 
Flavor 50 

Taste (25) 

Odor (25) 

Texture and interior appearance 25 

Lightness (5) 
Tenderness (5) 
Elasticity (5) 
Grain (5) 

Color (5) 

100 



228 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Layer Cake 

General appearance 15 

Size (s) 

Shape (5) 

Surface (5) 

Layers , . , 35 

Thickness (10) 
Flavor (15) 

Texture (10) 

Filling 30 

Consistency (10) 
SuitabiUty (5) 
Flavor (5) 

Thickness (5) 
Color (2) 

Surface (3) 

Combined flavor 20 

100 

Sponge Cake 

General appearance 25 

Color (5) 

Surface (10) 

Shape (10) 

Flavor 50 

Taste (40) 

Odor (10) 

Texture and interior appearance •. . . 25 

Lightness (5) 
Tenderness (5) 
Elasticity (5) 
Grain (5) 

Color (5) 

100 



CAKE 



229 



FOOD VALUES 
Hot Water Gingerbread 













u 






1 ^ 


^ 




Material 


OS 

& 

en 
< 




0? 


r^2 


H 

<: 
>< E 


^ 




LCIUM 

as CaO 
rams 


PHORUS 

as P2O5 
rams 








^0 







§0 


"^6 


H'' 


oO 


^0 












< 






U 


PhU 














u 




$ 








Molasses . 


I c. 


332 


7-97 




230.08 


953 


.0375 


1. 14 


•9 


.049 


Water . . 


^c. 


1 14.6 


















Flour . . 


2|C. 


250.2 


28.02 


2.50 


187.4 


883 


.028 


.06 


•44 


.003 


Soda . . 


I tsp. 


4-3 










.001 








Ginger 


i| tsp. 


4 










.0015 








Salt . , 


h tsp. 


2.25 


















Melted 






















butter . 


4 tbsp. 


78 


78 


66.52 




600 


.06 


.017 


.023 




Total, 


Loaf 




















cooked 1 


10X6X2 
inches 


674 


36.77 


69,12 


417.48 


2436 


.1281 


1. 217 


1-363 


.052 


loo-Cal- [ 


2iXii 




















ofie Por-< 


X2 




















tion 


inches 


27.63 


I-5I 


2.9 


17.12 


100 


.005 


•051 


.055 


.902 



Chocolate Cake 



Sugar . 


I c. 


205.5 






205.5 


822 


.02 








Butter . 


3 ^• 


59-7 


.6 


50.7 s 




459 


.04 


.013 


.0183 




Eggs . . 


2 


95-6 


12.91 


10.04 




141 


.06 


.064 


.3384 


.0026 


Flour . . 


lie. 


148.3 


16.61 


1.48 


1 1 1.08 


523 


.01 


.036 


.262 


.002 


Milk . . 


!c. 


161.9 


5-34 


6.48 


8.10 


112 


.01 


.257 


•339 


.0003 


Chocolate 


2 oz. 


37-9 


4.89 


18.46 


11.48 


231 


.04 


.o46 


•324 




Soda . 


itsp. 


2.2 










.0005 








Total, J 
cooked 


Loaf 

9X5X2 

inches 


624 


40.25 


87.21 


336.16 


2289 


.21 


.416 


1. 2817 


.0049 


loo-Cal- { 






















orie Por-< 


\Xi\Xz 


26.83 


1.73 


3-75 


14.4s 


100 


.01 


.016 


.0512 


.0001 


tion [ 


inches 





















230 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



FOOD VALUES 



Hot Water Sponge Cake 



Material 


< 


^0 


2^ 




w 

H 

< 

Si 

Pi 

< 


U3 

a- 
"^6 


H 


u 
$ 


Calcium 

(Calc. as CaO) 

Grams 


Phosphorus 

(Calc. as P2O6) 

Grams 




Eggs . . 


2 


90 


12.06 


9.45 




132 


.058 


.079 


.264 


.0013 


Sugar . . 


I c. 


205.5 






205.5 


822 


.0271 








Flour . . 


I c. 


112. 2 


12.45 


I. II 


83.28 


392 


.0117 


.027 


.196 


.0015 


Baking 






















powder . 


li tsp. 


9 










.004 








Lemon juice 


2 tbsp. 


28.2 






2.76 


II 


.016 


.009 


.006 




Water . . 


3 p 
8 ^• 




















Total, 
cooked 


1 2 small 
cakes 


360.6 


24.51 


10.56 


291.54 


1357 


.1168 


.115 


.466 


.0028 


1 00- Calorie 






















Portion . 


I 


26.32 


1.78 


'.77 


21.28 


100 


.0685 


.008 


.032 


.0001 



Cooked Frostings 



Ingredients : 

I c. sugar 
\ c. water 
\ tsp. cream of tartar 

Method : 



White Mountain 



I egg white 

I tsp. lemon juice 

I tsp. vanilla 



Boil first three ingredients to thread stage. Pour slowly on beaten 
white, add flavoring, and heat until thick enough to spread. 



Chocolate I 

2-4 oz. chocolate melted. 

Add to White Mountain Frosting before spreading on cake. 



CAKE 231 

Chocolate II 

4 oz. chocolate melted with a little milk. Cook until thickens, 
add I c. sugar. Remove from fire, add i tbsp. butter, i tsp. vanilla. 
Beat until smooth. 

Fudge Frosting 

Ingredients : 

I c. sugar I c. milk 

2 oz. chocolate 
Method: 

Boil to soft ball stage. Add 2 tbsp. butter and i tsp. vanilla. Cool. 
Beat until thick enough to spread. 

Maple 

I lb. maple sugar i c. boiling water 

I egg white 

Break or grate sugar. Method same as White Mountain. 



Caramel 
I c. brown sugar I c. granulated sugar 

J c. cream h tbsp. butter 

Prepare as Fudge Frosting. 



Uncooked Frostings 

Confectioners' Frosting 
Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. water, milk, fresh fruit confectioners' sugar 

juice or cream flavoring 

Method : 

To the Hquid add enough sifted sugar to make of right consistency 
to spread, then add flavoring. 



232 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Chocolate Frosting 

Ingredients : 

2 oz. chocolate 3 tbsp. hot water 

1 tbsp. butter confectioners' sugar 

^ tsp. vanilla 

Method : 

Melt chocolate over boiling water, add butter and hot water. 
Cool, and add sugar to make of right consistency to spread. Flavor 
with vanilla. 

Cocoa Fros'ing 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. cocoa I tbsp. butter 
boiling water to make paste confectioners' sugar 

I tsp. vanilla 

Coffee Frosting 
Ingredients : 

2 tsp. cocoa I tbsp. butter 

confectioners' sugar 2 tbsp. strong coffee 

Method : 

Melt butter in the hot coffee. Add cocoa and sugar until of right 
consistency to spread. 

Mocha Frosting 

Ingredients : 

I c. butter i tbsp. breakfast cocoa 

i^ c. confectioners' sugar coffee infusion 

Method : 

Cream butter, and add sugar gradually, continuing the beating; 
then add cocoa and coffee infusion drop by drop until of right con- 
sistency to spread. 

Orange Frosting 

Ingredients : 

4 tbsp. orange juice i tsp. lemon juice 

rind i orange 



CAKE 



233 



Method : 

Soak rind in the juice \ hour, strain, 
fectioncrs' sugar to spread. 



Add 2 egg yolks, and con- 



Lemon 



Ingredients : 



I c. sugar 
2 1 ibsp. flour 
rind of 2 lemons 



ic 



lemon juice 



I egg 

I tsp. butter 



Method : 



Cake Fillings 



Orange 



^ c. sugar 
2\ tbsp. floiir 
rind ^ orange 
\ c. orange juice 
§ tbsp. lemon juice 
I egg 



I tsp. butter 



Mix sugar and flour, add fruit juice and rind. Cook 20 minutes in 
double boiler. Add egg and cook a little longer, stirring constantly. 
Add butter and cool. 



Cream 

Ingredients : 

7 tbsp. sugar 

2f tbsp. flour 

salt 

I c. milk — scalded 

I egg 



tsp. vanilla 



Method . 



Chocolate 



§ c. sugar 

3 tbsp. flour 

I oz. chocolate 

I c. milk — scalded 

I egg yolk 

I tsp. vanilla 



Mix dry ingredients with a little of the cold milk. Add to the 
scalded milk, and cook 20 minutes in double boiler. Add egg and 
cook a little longer. Add the vanilla. Cool. 

Chocolate. Shave the chocolate and add i tbsp. hot water to it. 
Heat it in double boiler until smooth. Pour the cooked flour mix- 
ture over this. Then add the egg and vanilla. 



234 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Fig 

Ingredients : 

I lb. chopped figs ^ c. boiling water 

I c. sugar I tbsp. lemon juice 

Method : 

Mix all together, and cook in a double boiler until thick enough 
to spread. 

Fruit 
Add chopped fruit and nuts to White Mountain Frosting. 



CHAPTER XV 
PASTRY 

Plain Paste I 

Ingredients : 

I c. flour h tsp. salt 

1 c. lard ice water 

Plain Paste II 
li c. flour z c. lard 

i c. butter h tsp. salt 

ice water 

Flour. — Pastry or bread flour may be used. 

Shortening. — Butter, lard, crisco, oleomargarine, drippings, 
chicken fat, or refined oils or combinations of two or more may be 
used. 

General Rules for Plain Paste. 

I. Sift flour, measure and sift flour and salt. Cut in shortening 
with 2 knives. Add water to make a stiff dough. Chill. Roll out 
on floured board. 

II. Wash butter in cold water to remove salt and buttermilk. 
Chill butter and lard. Sift flour and salt and cut in shortening. 
Roll lightly into an oblong piece ; roll from center forward and from 
center backward. Fold crosswise in thirds. Turn halfway around, 
roll and fold a second time. 



Puff Paste 

Ingredients : 

I lb. bread flour i lb. butter 

ice water 

23s 



236 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

The liquid may be cream, water, or egg whites. Weigh the butter, 
place in ice water, and wash to remove salt and buttermilk. Weigh 
the flour and add water to make a stiff dough, wrap in a towel and 
put on ice. (Placing between 2 pans of chopped ice is a convenient 
way of chilling.) Dredge board with flour, also the rolling pin. 
Roll the dough into a rectangle almost as long as the board. Place 
the butter in center, fold the paste one side over and press edges 
together. Fold in thirds — lower part over, upper part under. 
Press edges, pound lightly with rolling pin to a rectangle and fold 
in thirds — both over. Turn the mixture halfway around, pound, 
roll and fold. Repeat twice unless the butter shows through the 
flour mixture, and chill. Repeat three times, and the last time fold 
from ends to center and double, making 4 layers. Chill. Use this 
paste for tarts, patties, or crusts. 

Patties 

Cut off a piece of dough, turn halfway round, pound to i inch in 
thickness. Cut tops, pound a little thinner and cut first layers. 
Cut five small centers from the tops. Put together, place on sheet 
and chill 15 minutes. 

Baking : 

21 min. in hot oven 
7 min. rise 
7 min. brown 
7 min. finish baking at reduced temperature 

Cheese Straws 

Roll out paste, sprinkle with grated cheese and cayenne. Fold, 
turn, and pound 3 times. Chill. Cut in strips. 

Banbury Tarts 

Cut paste 2>^ 2)2 inches. Place ^ tsp. of Banbury Filling on one 
side, fold one side over and press edges. Prick top with fork. 



PASTRY 



237 



Banbury Filling 

Ingredients : 

I lemon — boiled 15 minutes i c. sugar 

I c. raisins i egg 

Method : 

Remove seeds from lemon, chop raisins and lemon, and add sugar 
and egg. 

Classification of Pies 

One Crust — Baked One Crust — Unbaked , . ' 

Lattice top 

Chocolate Custard Cherry 

Coconut Pumpkin Cranberry 

Cream Sour cream Mock cherry 
Lemon 



Two Crusts 


Turnover 




Tarts 


Apple 




Apple 




Jelly 


Mince 




Fruit mixtures 


Banbury 










Cream 










Fruit mixtures 






One Crusi 


— Baked 


Invert pie 


tin. Bake crust on 


it ; turn 


right side up as soon as 


baked. 












Cream 


Coconut 


Chocolate Lemon 


Sugar . . 


I c. 


I c. 


I c. 


I c. 


Flour . . 


4 tbsp. 


2 tbsp. 


3 tbsp. 


5 tbsp. 


Salt . . . 


itsp. 


itsp. 


itsp. 


itsp. 


Milk . . . 


2 c. 


i|c. 


2 c. 


I c. boiling water 


Egg yolks . 


3 


2 


3 


2 


Butter . . 


I tsp. 


I tsp. 




I tbsp. 


Vanilla . . • 


I tsp. 


I tbsp. 


I tbsp. 


juice and rind 






I c. coconut 


2 oz. chocolate i lemon 








or ^ c. 


cocoa 


Ingredients : 




Meringue 




2 white 


s of eggs 




4 tbsp. granulated sugar 



238 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Add sugar slowly to stiffly beaten whites and continue beating. 
Bake in slow oven. 

One Crust — Unbaked 

Line a very deep tin with paste, allowing \ inch on edge of plate 
for a frill. Turn crust under and make a frill with thumb and fore- 
fingers. 

To prevent soggy crust : 

Brush paste with white of egg 
Dredge paste with flour 



Custard 




Pumi 


)kin 


Ingredients : 




Ingredients : 




2 eggs 1 tsp 

3 tbsp. sugar i^ c. 


. salt 
milk 


i| c. pumpkin 
I c. brown sugar 


I tsp. ginger 
\ tsp. salt 


\ tsp. nutmeg 


. 


1 tsp. cinnamon 
I c. milk 


2 eggs 

2 tbsp. molasses 


Ingredients : 




Sour Cream 




3 yolks of eggs 




I c. chopped raisins 


I c. sugar 

I c. sour cream 




I tsp. cinnamon 
\ tsp. cloves 



\ tsp. salt 

One Crust — Unbaked — Lattice Top 

Line deep tin with paste ; cut off close to edge. Cover top of pie 
with strips of paste. 



Ingredients : 

I c. cranberries 
h c. raisins 



Mock Cherry 



1 c. sugar 

2 tbsp. flour 



\ c. cold water 



PASTRY 239 

Method : 

Cut cranberries in halves. Wash to remove seeds. Chop with 
raisins and add remaining ingredients. 

Two Crusts 

Line tin with plain paste. Fill and cover with a paste, which has 
been pricked to allow the escape of steam. Insert a narrow strip of 
paste between lining and top. ^Moisten with cold water and press 
edges firmly. Trim and ornament as desired. 

Note : A strip of cloth may be wrapped around the pie to prevent escape 
of juice. A cornucopia of paper inserted in the center allows 
the escape of juice. 

Apple Pie 
tart apples spice 

sugar butter 

water 

Mince Meat 

Ingredients : 

2 lbs. fresh beef, stewed and put through a meat grinder 

1 lb. beef suet, finely chopped 
5 lbs. chopped apples 

2 lbs. seeded raisins 

1 lb. sultana raisins 

2 lbs. currants 

f lb. citron, finely cut 
2 tbsp. cinnamon 

1 tbsp. nutmeg 

2 tbsp. mace 
I tbsp. cloves 

2^ lbs. brown sugar 

I tbsp. salt 

^ lb. candied orange peel 

\ lb. candied lemon peel 

I qt. boiled cider 

water 



240 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Mix all ingredients except the raisins with water to cover and allow 
the mixture to cook 6 hours slowly, adding water as necessary to 
prevent burning. When ready to use, add the raisins. Spread in a 
pastry shell, dot over with small pieces of butter, and cover with 
upper crust. 



Green Tomato Mince Meat ^ 

Ingredients : 

2 c. chopped green tomato 2 c. brown sugar 

2 c. chopped sweet apples \ c. molasses 

\ c. cracker crumbs \ c. vinegar 

\ c. butter i c. raisins 

I tbsp. each : i c. currants 

cinnamon mace 

cloves nutmeg 

Method : 

Mix all the ingredients except the butter and allow the mixture to 
cook slowly until thick. Add the butter just before removing from 
the fire. This mixture is sufficient for three pies. 



Turnovers 

Cut paste in squares and fold over the filling as triangles or in 
circles as half circles. 



Tarts 

Cover back of tin cups with paste, prick, bake, remove from crust 
and fill. Cut 2 circles of paste. Remove center of one and put the 
two circles together with cold water. Bake and place a small amount 
of filling in each. 

^ Students who grow their own tomatoes will find this an excellent way to utilize 
tomatoes which are still green at frost. 



PASTRY 241 

Score Cards 

Two-crust Pie 

General appearance 20 

Form (5) 

Attractiveness (5) 

Design (5) 

Workmanship (5) 

Pastry 45 

Upper crust 
Flakiness (5) 

Tenderness (5) 

Surface (5) 

Palatability (5) 

Bake (10) 

Under crust 
Color (5) 

Bake (5) 

Rim (5) 

Filling 30 

Flavor (20) 

Consistency (5) 

Thoroughness of cooking (5) 

Ease of serving 5 

lob 
One-crust Pie 

General appearance 20 

Color (10) 

Shape (10) 

Pastry 35 

Color (5) 

Tenderness (5) 

Surface (5) 

Palatability (10) 

Bake (10) 

Filling 40 

Consistency (5) 

Flavor (30) 

Smoothness (5) 

Ease of serving . . , 5 

100 



242 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

One-crust Pie and Meringue 

General appearance 20 

Workmanship (10) 

Attractiveness (10) 
Pastry 3° 

Color (5) 

Flakiness (s) 

Tenderness (5) 

Surface (5) 

Palatability (s) 

Condition (5) 
Filling 30 

Consistency (s) 

Smoothness (5) 

Flavor (20) 
Meringue iS 

Color (3) 

Surface (3) 

Lightness (3) 

Tenderness (3) 

Bake (3) 

Ease of serving 5 

100 



CHAPTER XVI 

FLOUR MIXTURES USING SOUR MILK, BUTTERMILK, 

SOUR CREAM 

Brown Bread 

Ingredients : 

2 c. graham flour i c. sour milk or butter- 

I c. corn meal milk 

I c. sweet milk § c. molasses 

1 tsp. soda I tsp. salt 

Method : 

Mix the graham flour well with the corn meal, sifting the soda and 
salt with the corn meal. Add the liquid ingredients and stir 
thoroughly. Bake in a well-greased covered pan or mold in a 
moderate oven two hours. 

Indian Bread 

Ingredients : 

2 c. corn meal 2 c. sour milk 
i^ c. flour I c. molasses 
2 tsp. soda I tsp. salt 

Method : 

Sift soda, salt, and flour. Add the corn meal, mix well and 
add the liquid ingredients. Turn into a buttered mold and steam 3 
hours. 

Steamed Graham Bread 



Ingredients : ' 




I egg 


I c. sour milk 


I c. graham flour 


§ c. molasses 


I c. wheat flour 


I tsp. soda 




^ tsp. salt 




243 



244 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Sift the soda, salt, and wheat flour. Mix well with the graham 
flour, add the liquid ingredients and lastly the egg, slightly beaten. 
Turn into a well-greased mold and steam two hours. 

Corn Meal Gems 

Ingredients : 

I c. sweet milk ^ c. molasses 

3 tbsp. sour cream i tsp. soda 

I c. corn meal i c. wheat flour 

I tsp. salt 
Method : 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Add the liquids and mix 
thoroughly. Turn into greased muffln tins, and bake in a moderate 
oven 12 minutes. 

Graham Pudding 

Ingredients : 

1 c. buttermilk or i c. molasses 
sour milk i c. raisins 

2 c. graham flour i tsp. soda 
I tsp. cinnamon ^ tsp. salt 

Method : 

Mix the cinnamon, salt, and soda well with the graham flour. Add 
the liquid ingredients and the raisins. Mix thoroughly and turn 
into a buttered mold and allow it to steam three hours, or turn into 
individual molds and steam 45 minutes. 

Plum Pudding 
Ingredients : 

3 c. chopped suet i c. sour milk 
I c. molasses 2 eggs 

I c. sugar I tsp. nutmeg 

I lb. raisins i tbsp. cinnamon 

I lb. currants | tsp. ginger 

5 lb. citron i tsp. cloves 

I tsp. soda ^ tsp. mace 

I c. bread crumbs 



FLOUR MIXTURES USING SOUR MILK 



245 



Method : 

Wash and prepare the currants and raisins. Put through the 
meat grinder with the citron. Mix the finely chopped suet with the 
bread crumbs and thoroughly mix the spices, salt, and soda all 
through. Add this to the first mixture, add the molasses and sour 
milk and lastly the eggs slightly beaten. Turn into buttered molds 
and steam five hours. 



Dried Apple Cake 

Ingredients : 

I c. dried apples (soaked over- 
night) 
I c. molasses 
I c. butter 
I c. buttermilk 
I tsp. cinnamon 

Method : 

Cook the molasses and dried apples until thick. Allow the mix- 
ture to cool. Cream the butter, add the sugar and egg slightly 
beaten. Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Add the milk and dry 
ingredients alternately to the egg mixture. Lastly add the molasses 
and apple. Mix thoroughly. Turn into a prepared pan and bake 
30 minutes in a moderate oven. 



I egg 




3^. 


flour 


I tsp. 


soda 


I c. sugar 


I tsp. 


cloves 


I tsp. 


nutmeg 



Ingredients : 



Fruit Cake without Eggs 



1 c. sugar 

4 tbsp. butter 

2 c. flour 
^ tsp. salt 



I c. sour milk 
I c. raisins 
I tsp. soda 
I tsp. cinnamon 



I tsp. cloves 
Method : 

Cream the butter, add the sugar and stir until the mixture is light- 
colored. Mix and sift the dry ingredients and add alternately to 
the first mixture. Add the raisins and bake in a moderate oven 30 
minutes. 



246 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Spice Cake I 

Ingredients : 

§ c. butter | c. sour milk 

^ c. sugar 2 c. flour 

^ c. molasses i tsp. soda 

I egg ^ tsp. cloves 

I c. raisins ^ tsp. cinnamon 
Method : 

Follow general directions for cake mixtures. Bake in very moder- 
ate oven 45 minutes. 

Spice Cake II 

Ingredients : 

1 c. butter i c. buttermilk 

2 c. brown sugar 2 tsp. soda 

3 eggs 2 c. flour 

I tsp. cinnamon i tsp. cloves 

1 tsp. allspice i tsp. nutmeg 
Method : 

Follow general directions for cake mixture. Bake as a loaf cake 
40 minutes, or as a layer cake 30 minutes. 

Sugar Cookies 

Ingredients : 

2 c. sugar I c. sour cream 
2 eggs 2 tsp. soda 

I c. butter i tsp. cream of tartar 

flour to make a stiff dough 
Method : 

Follow general directions for cooky mixtures. 

Molasses Cookies I 

Ingredients : 

I egg I c. shortening 

1 c. sugar I c. buttermilk 

2 c. molasses i tsp. soda 

I tsp. ginger i tsp. cinnamon 

flour to make a stiff dough 

Method : 

Follow general directions for cooky mixtures. 



FLOUR MIXTURES USING SOUR MILK 



247 



Molasses Cookies II 



Ingredients : 






I c. brown sugar 


I c. buttermilk 


I c. molasses 




I c. lard 


I tsp. salt 




I tsp. ginger 


i§ tsp. soda 




flour to make a soft dough 


Ingredients : 


Soft Gingerbread 


§ c. sugar 




I c. buttermilk 


I c. molasses 




I tsp. ginger 


J c. butter 




I tsp. cloves 


2 tsp. soda 




2^ c. flour 


2 eggs 




I tsp. cinnamon 


Method : 






Follow general rules for combining 


cake mixtures. Bake in a 


shallow pan 30 minutes in a moderate < 


oven. 


Ingredients : 


Fried Cakes 


I c. sugar 




I c. sour cream 


2 eggs 




1 c. buttermilk 


I tsp. soda 




2 tsp. baking powder 


I tsp. salt 




nutmeg 




flour to make a soft dough 


Ingredients : 


Doughnuts 


I 


I c. sugar 




I tbsp. butter 


2 eggs 




I c. sour milk 


I tsp. soda 




nutmeg 




flour to make a soft dough 


Ingredients : 


Doughnuts 


II 


I c. sugar 




3 tbsp. butter 


I c. thick sour milk 


I tsp. soda 


(beaten to 


a froth) 


^ tsp. nutmeg 


flour to make 


a soft dough 


I tsp. salt 



CHAPTER XVII 

SALADS AND SANDWICHES 

The American salad is a combination of meat, fish, poultry, fruit, or 
vegetables served on salad greens with a dressing. The oil of the 
dressing usually gives a high fuel value. If made with meat, fish, or 
poultry, the protein content may also be high ; if fruits and vegetables 
are used, the salad may be chiefly significant for the ash constituents 
which these furnish. 



I. Salad greens are : 




lettuce 


beet tops 


chicory 


dandelions 


romaine 


spinach 


endive 


celery 


escarole 


cabbage 


water cress 


chives 


2. Foundation salads are : 




a. Meat 




chicken 


veal 


lamb 


sweetbread 


h. Fish 




tuna 


salmon 


white fish 




c. Shellfish 




lobster 


crab 


shrimp 


scallops 


d. Eggs 





248 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



249 



e. 


Vegetables 








potatoes 




carrots 




beets 




onions 




peas 




beans 




asparagus 




cucumbers 




radishes 


cauliflower 


celery 


/. 


Fruits 








cherries 




oranges 




lemon 




grapefruit 




apples 




peaches 




pears 




apricots 




green peppers 




green tomatoes 




white grapes 


bananas 


pineapple 


g- 


Miscellaneous 








figs 




dates 




nuts 


cheese 


gelatin 


3. Salad dressings are : 








French 




mayonnaise 




boiled 


mixtures 


cream 


OTE : The above salad dressings have many variations as to color, tas 




and consistency, 


bui the foundation is one of the five given. 


4. Variations in salad < 


dressings : 




a. 


French dressing ' 


^ plus 






horseradish 




Roquefort cheese 




pimento 




chili sauce 




chives 




hard-cooked egg, minced 




beets, finely chopped 


green pepper 




parsley 




celery, finely chopped 




whipped cream 


pecans 




hazelnuts 




English walnuts 




1 Described in the next chapter. 



250 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



fruit juice in place of vinegar 
raspberry vinegar, or tarra- 
gon, used in place of 
cider vinegar 

Mayonnaise dressing ^ 
beaten white of egg 
fruit juice in place of vinegar 
green pepper, chopped 

olives 
raspberry vinegar 



water cress 
pepper grass 



whipped cream 

chili sauce 

pimento minced (puree) 

chives 

tabasco sauce 

sardines reduced to a paste 



c. Boiled dressings 

any variations as for mayonnaise 

Salads : when served : 

1. Formal meal 

green salad with French dressing or modification 

2. Informal meal 

a. any salad, provided the same ingredients are not repeated 

in another part of the meal 

b. any dressing 

3. Luncheon 

a. Formal 

green with French dressing 

fruit with French or mayonnaise dressing or modification 

chicken, if served in place of other meat in meal 

b. Informal 

any salad or dressing — provided ingredients are not re- 
peated in other courses of meal 

4. Suppers 

meat 

fish 

shellfish 

fruit 

miscellaneous , 

1 Described in the next chaptei:. 



used with any dressing or combination 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



251 



Light refreshments 
meat 
shellfish 
fruit 

asparagus 
miscellaneous 



used with any dressing or combination 



The attractive salad must embody the following points : 



freshness 

crispness 

appetizing combination 

harmonize with the decora- 
tion and color of the china 
in which it is served 



coolness 
attractive color 
appropriateness to the meal 
harmonize with the rest of 
the meal 



To prepare salad greens : 

a. Wash leaves and examine carefully for parasites, sand, etc. 

b. Pile leaves lightly on a cheesecloth, fold the cloth over and 

keep thus arranged on ice or near the ice, or 

c. Wash the leaves and place them in a tin pail which can be 

tightly covered. Set the pail in the ice box. Salad greens 
can be carried for a picnic in a pail and arrive in good 
condition. 

d. If salad greens are wilted, allow them to stand in cold or ice 

water for some time before attempting to prepare. 

Accessories served with salads : 



b. 



Breadstuff s 

bread sticks 

rolls 

cheese straws 

toasted crackers 

educator crackers 
Other accessories 

cheese balls 

fried cheese balls 

radishes 

olives : ripe, green, 



stuffed 



toast 

cheese tea biscuits 

cheese crackers 

saltines 



toasted cheese 

celery : curls, pieces, 

hearts 
Bar le Due currants 
nuts : salted, unsalted 



252 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Salads may be made in the greatest variety of combinations : among 
the most popular are : 

1. Meat 

a. chicken, celery 

chicken, celery, sour apple, pine nuts 
chicken, celery, pine nuts, tiny sections lemon 

h. veal, celery 

veal, chicken, celery 

c. lamb, celery 

d. sweet bread, endive cut in sections 

2. Fish 

a. tuna, celery 

b. salmon, celery 
salmon, cabbage 
salmon, cucumber, gelatin 

c. white fish, celery 

3. Shellfish 

a. lobster, celery 
h. crab, celery 
c. scallops 

4. Egg . 

egg, green pepper 
egg, pimento 
egg, potato 

5. Vegetables 

a. potato 

French dressing 

boiled dressing 

potato, carrot 

potato, beets 

potato, German onions 
h. carrot 

grated raw, boiled, or cooked 

carrot, peas 



potato, chives 
potato, parsley 
potato, egg 

potato, cucumber, green 
pepper 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 253 

c. beets, potato 

beets, peas 

beets, stuffed with cabbage 

d. onions 

German onions, tomato 

onions, cucumber 

onion, dressing as sandwich 

e. peas, carrots 

peas, string beans 

peas, potato each in a lettuce cup 
/. beans 

string beans 

hma beans 

baked beans 
g. asparagus 

pimento 

green pepper 
h. cucumbers, radishes 

celery 
i. cauliflower, tart dressing 

6. Fruits 

a. white cherries, pieces pineapple 

white cherries, balls of pear, apple, or peach 

h. orange, grapefruit orange, water cress 

orange, pineapple orange, almonds 

orange, lemon, walnuts 

c. grapefruit, pineapple 

d. apple, celery, nuts 
apple, water cress 

e. peach halves filled with mayonnaise and nuts 

peach halves stuck with almonds covered with mayonnaise 
pears used as peaches 
/. fresh apricots, almonds, or pine nuts 
g. green pepper 

sliced or chopped 
stuffed with : 



254 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

cream cheese and mayonnaise 
cream cheese and pimento 
yellow cheese and mayonnaise 

American cheese and green and red pepper chopped very 
fine 

filled with : 

. „. , . f I c. water juice i lemon 

jellied mayonnaise i , , ,. 

•' "^ I 2 tsp. gelatin i c. mayonnaise 

tarragon jelly mixed with chopped cabbage, celery, pimento 

red pepper — use as green pepper 
h. tomato 

sliced 

cut in halves, cover cut surface with stiff mayonnaise, over 
this chopped green pepper 

poinsettia 

cut skin and pulp in sections as petals of poinsettia 
remove part of pulp and seeds and fill cavity with 
chopped celery and green pepper 
i. cucumbers 

tomato and cucumber slices 

variations given with potato 
_;. pineapple 

circles, nuts 

circles cut to make sections, roll of cream cheese 

between each section 

see white cherries, orange, grapefruit 
k. bananas 

banana, finely chopped peanuts 

7. Miscellaneous 

figs, dates, nuts, cream dressing 

dates, stuffed with cream cheese, mayonnaise dressing 

dates, almonds, mayonnaise dressing 

dates, Brazil nuts, mayonnaise dressing 

gelatin given 

Fruits and vegetables may be cut in cubes, balls, shredded, or fancy 
shapes. Containers may be made of orange or lemon rind, apples, 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 255 

peppers, tomatoes, peaches, pears, cabbage leaves, lettuce hearts, 
whole cabbage, beet shells, cucumbers, romaine leaves. 

Sandwiches 
General Rules. 

1 . Bread should be a day old, unless it is going to be rolled. White, 
graham, or Boston brown may be used. Sometimes two kinds are 
used in the same sandwich. Slice as thin as possible, remove crusts 
if desired, keeping the slices in pairs, then cut the desired shape. 
To give variety, bread may be cut in fancy shapes, — hearts, triangles, 
squares, rectangles, circles, etc. The center may be removed from a 
white bread sandwich with a tiny cutter and the hole filled in with a 
piece of brown bread the size of the piece removed. 

2. Cream the butter by rubbing it against the sides of a bowl with 
a wooden spoon. 

3. Butter one side of the sandwich and put filling on the other side. 
Press lightly together. 

4. Wrap sandwiches in parafTm paper. Large numbers may be 
placed in a crock and covered with a damp towel and plate. 

5. Save crusts of bread. Dry and grate for fine crumbs for cro- 
quettes. 

6. Meat and poultry fillings are best when the meat is chopped. 

7. Serve sandwiches in a basket or on a plate covered with a doily. 

Sandwiches 

Conveyor of filling : 
Bread 

white Boston brown 

entire wheat nut 

graham raisin 

Gingersnaps 

cheese fillings are best with gingersnaps 
Crackers 

Educator Saltines 

fillings fillings 

cheese cheese 

marmalade nut 

fig date marmalade 



256 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Toast 

fillings 

marmalade 

fig 

date 

salad 

Fillings for sandwiches : 
Meat: 

ham — chopped, seasoned 

ham — chopped, sauce tartare 

ham — chopped, hard-cooked eggs 

ham — chopped, hard-cooked eggs, white sauce 

tongue, corned beef, lamb, veal, poultry or a combination of 
any of the above 

Baked beans : 
Salad : 

poultry, veal or lamb chopped, celery, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

cucumber, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

egg, mayonnaise, lettuce 

olive, cream cheese, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

egg, olives, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

lobster, celery, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

shrimp, celery, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

tuna fish, celery, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

salmon, celery, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

lettuce, mayonnaise 

lettuce, mayonnaise, sliced tomatoes 

Cheese : 
American cheese — moistened with vinegar, anchovy essence, or 

sardine paste 
American cheese sliced ; dill pickles sliced, highly seasoned 
cream cheese — moistened with cream 
cream cheese — moistened with mayonnaise 
cream cheese, pimento 
cream cheese, walnuts or peanuts 
cream cheese, olives 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



257 



cream cheese, French dressing, pecans 

cream cheese, green and red peppers 

cream cheese, dairy cheese grated, highly seasoned 

cottage cheese, green peppers 

cottage cheese, parsley finely chopped 
Nut: 

walnuts or any nuts chopped, cream 

walnuts or any nuts chopped, mayonnaise 
Sour: 

sweet pickles, olives, red pepper, dressing 

sour pickles, green pepper, celery, dressing 

olives, celery, red pepper, dressing 

cucumber, green pepper, mayonnaise 

chives, tomato, cut fine, cucumber 
Miscellaneous : 

chopped dates, cream cheese 

sweet chocolate; preserved ginger, chopped, moistened with 
ginger sirup 

chopped dates, walnuts or any other kind of nut 

jelly, walnuts 

preserved ginger, walnuts 

figs, raisins, dates, nuts 

peanuts, raisins 

orange marmalade, nuts 

prunes, walnuts, lemon juice 



i lb. figs 
I c. water 



I c. sugar 

5 c, water 

1 



Fig Paste 
cook to a paste 

Orange Honey 

> boil to thread stage 



^ c. nuts 
juice ^ lemon 



t c. orange juice j 

add 
I c. orange peel chopped 

Bring to boiling point and cool 



I tsp. vanilla 



258 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Fancy Sandwiches 
Rolled 

Remove crusts from very fresh loaf of sandwich bread. Remove 
long slice of bread, spread with butter and a mixture of celery, green 
and red pepper, and mayonnaise. Roll like jelly roll. Cut across in 
|-inch slices. 

Club 

toasted bread lettuce 

chicken broiled bacon 

tomato mayonnaise 

Fairmont 

Spread three oblongs of bread with butter on both sides, 2 slices 
on one side. Put together with mixture of green and red peppers, 
celery, and mayonnaise. Wrap in cheesecloth and press under a 
weight. Slice. 

Spanish 

2 anchovies 2 pickles 

I piece parsley 2 tbsp. oil 

Pound and add : 

I tsp. prepared mustard 2 tbsp. oil 

yolks 2 hard-boiled eggs whites 2 hard-boiled eggs 

Checkers 

Cut three thick slices each white and brown bread. Spread one 
white with butter and cream cheese and place brown on it. Spread 
this slice and place a white slice on it. 

Repeat this process, starting with a brown slice. 

Put each in cheesecloth under weights. Trim and cut each in 3!- 
inch slices. Spread with butter and put together so that a white 
block alternates with a brown. Press again and slice thin. 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



259 



FOOD VALUES 
Vegetable Salad with Mayonnaise Dressing 













» 












Material 


Oi 



Ui 

< 




2=« 

si 


H 6 

rr;2 


w 2 


0^ 





lug 

w tn C 


w « E 
S «J 2 






s 


^^ 


<£^ 


*o 


^0 
< 


^6 


$ 


6 


Phos 

(Calc. 

G 


HHO 


Peas. . . . 


2 tbsp. 


40. 


1.44 


.008 


3-92 


22 


.006 


.007 


.052 


.0003 


Beans 


2 tbsp. 


30.5 


•33 


•03 


115 


6 


.006 


.01 


.017 


.0002 


Cauliflower 


I tbsp. 


23.6 


•42 


.118 


I.I 


7 


.008 


.038 


.031 




Lettuce . . 


2 leaves 


31-7 


.38 


•095 


.91 


6 


.009 


•01 s 


.028 


.0003 


Mayonnaise . 


I tbsp. 


14.4 


•SI 


4.41 
4.66 




100 


.0098 


.005 


.031 


.0003 


Total . . . 


6 tbsp. 


140.2 


3.08 


7.08 


141 


.0392 


•075 


•159 


.oon 


icx>-Calorie 






















Portion . 


41 tbsp. 


98.9 


2.17 


3.28 


4.99 


100 


.0276 


•0052 


.011 


.0007 







Romaine or Lettuce 


Salad 








Romaine . 




I head 


226.2 


2.71 


.68 


6.56 


43 


.06 


.III 


.202 


.002 


Olive oil 
Vinegar 
Mustard . 
Pepper and 


salt 


5 tbsp. 
2 tbsp. 
I tsp. 
h tsp. 


55-5 

293 

2.8 

2.6 




55-5 




500 


.049 
.003 
.003 
.005 


.007 


.009 


.0001 


Total . . 


15 leaves 

1 r 


316.4 


2.71 


56.18 


6.56 


543 


.12 


.118 


.211 


.0021 


loo-Calorie 
Portion 


' 


2 c. 
dressing 

3 leaves 
f tbsp. 
dressing 


60.78 


•5 


10.38 


1. 21 


100 


.022 


.020 


.038 


.0004 



Wholewheat Bread and Cheese Sandwich 



Loaf bread 
(trimmed) 

Butter , . 

Cream cheese 

Total . . 

loo-Calorie 
Portion . 



I 


2314 


22.45 


2.08 


115. II 


569 


•03s 


.062 


.426 


52 tbsp. 


99.2 


•99 


84.32 




763 


.079 


.022 


•0305 


f pkg. 


62.3 


161.36 


20.99 


1-5 


260 


•037 


.78 


1.04 


24 


392.9 


184.8 


107.39 


1 16.61 


1592 


.151 


.864 


1.4965 


i| 


24.36 


11.46 


6.66 


732 


100 


.009 


.0318 


.0897 



.0017 



.0003 



.0020 



Notice that in the sandwich the butter furnished more than half of the 
total energy value (calories) , in the vegetable salad the oil of the mayonnaise 
furnished two-thirds of the calories, and in the lettuce salad the oil used as 
dressing furnished over ten times as much energy as the lettuce itself. 



CHAPTER XVIII 
SALAD DRESSINGS 

EXPERIMENTS WITH OILS 

194. — a. Prepare French dressing, using recipe II given below 
(pp. 261-262). 

b. Again use this recipe, substituting for the vinegar the 

following : 

tarragon vinegar 

wine vinegar 

lemon juice 

I lemon juice, ^ orange juice 

grapefruit juice 

pineapple juice 

c. Again use this recipe, substituting for the olive oil the 
following oils : 

§ olive oil, ^ cottonseed 

cottonseed 

peanut 

corn 

melted butter 

Note : The instructor may further test the above oils by using various fruit 
acids with each, as some fruit acids blend well with the olive oil 
substitutes. 

195. — a. Prepare mayonnaise dressing, using the recipe below 
(p. 263). 

b. Prepare other mixtures, substituting in turn the following : 

I cottonseed, f olive oil 
I cottonseed, | olive oil 
f cottonseed, j olive oil 
cottonseed oil (Wesson) 
260 



SALAD DRESSINGS 261 

J peanut oil, ^ olive oil 
peanut oil 

^ corn oil, | olive oil 
I corn oil, J olive oil 
corn oil 

196. — a. Prepare mayonnaise dressing by the usual method, sub- 
stituting for the egg yolks, egg yolks which have been hard cooked. 
Compare with the dressing prepared from the uncooked egg yolks. 

b. Reduce the number of egg yolks ^ and prepare mayon- 
naise by the usual recipe. Add to this a partly stiffened gelatin 
mixture of i c. water, i tsp. lemon juice, 2 tsp. gelatin. Beat the 
mixture thoroughly and place in the ice box for twenty-four hours. 

197. — Prepare mayonnaise as in 196, b, but instead of adding 
gelatin mixture add i tbsp. boiling water and beat it thoroughly. 
Allow this to remain in ice box twenty-four hours. Compare with 
that in 196, b. 

Summarize the results of Expts. 194-197 : 

a. From the standpoint of the chemical and physical proper- 
ties of the substances used and their behavior under the treatment to 
which they were subjected. 

b. With reference to the feasibility of making salad dress- 
ings from a wide variety of materials. 

The refined cottonseed, com (maize), peanut, and olive oils of 
commerce are practically identical in food value. The substitution 
of one of the cheaper oils for olive oil in any of the following recipes 
will not alter the food value of the product. 

Salad Dressings 

French Dressing I 

Ingredients : 

^ tsp. salt 2 tbsp. vinegar (cider) 

I tsp. pepper 4 tbsp. olive oil 

Method : 

Mix ingredients and stir until well blended. Some prefer the 
addition of a few drops of onion juice. French dressing is more easily 
prepared and more commonly used than any other dressing. 



262 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 

I tsp. salt 
I tsp. pepper 

Method : 

Proceed as above. 



French Dressing II 



I tbsp. vinegar 
3 tbsp. olive oil 



Spanish Dressing 



Ingredients : 

I tsp. salt 

I tsp. paprika 

I tbsp. horseradish 

Method : 
Mix all ingredients and blend thoroughly. Serve on green salad. 



2 tbsp. chili sauce 
I tbsp. vinegar 

3 tbsp. olive oil 



Ingredients : 

\ tbsp. salt 

I tbsp. mustard 

f tbsp. sugar 



Cream Dressing 



I egg slightly beaten 
2| tbsp. melted butter 
f c. cream 
\ c. vinegar 

Method : 

Mix ingredients in order given, adding vinegar very slowly. Cook 
over boiUng water, stirring constantly until mixture thickens, strain 
and cool. 



Ingredients : 

^ tbsp. salt 
I tsp. mustard 
cayenne 
J c. vinegar 



Boiled Dressing 



I tbsp. flour 
yolks 2 eggs 

I I tbsp. melted butter 
f c. milk 



Method : 

Mix dry ingredients, add yolks of eggs slightly beaten, butter, 
milk, and vinegar very slowly. Cook over boiling water, stirring 
constantly until mixture thickens. Strain and cool. 



SALAD DRESSINGS 



263 



Ingredients : 

I tsp. salt 
cayenne 
yolks 2 eggs 

Method : 



Mayonnaise Dressing 



2 tbsp. lemon juice 
2 tbsp. vinegar 
i^ c. olive oil 



Mix dry ingredients, add egg yolks, and when well mixed, add § tea- 
spoon vinegar. Add oil gradually, drop by drop at first, and stir con- 
stantly. As mixture thickens, thin with vinegar or lemon juice. 
Add oil and acid alternately until all is used, stirring or beating 
constantly. If oil is added too rapidly, dressing will have a curdled 
appearance. A smooth consistency may be restored by taking yolk 
of another egg and adding curdled mixture slowly to it. It is 
desirable to have bowl containing mixture placed in a larger bowl 
of crushed ice. i teaspoon powdered sugar may be added to the 
dressing if the flavor is desired. 



FOOD VALUES 
Mayonnaise 













u 






1 ^ 






Material 


OS 


w 2 


^2 




h 


^1 


8 


LCIUM 

asCaO 
rams 


PHORUS 

as P2O5 
rams 








^^ 


£o 


^0 


^0 

Pi 

< 


^6 


$ 


< 60 
U 


Phos 

(Calc. 

G 


HHQ 


Egg yolks . . 


2 


45-6 


7.16 


16.18 




165 


.0165 


.082 


•449 


.0038 


Vinegar . . 


I tbsp. 


17-5 


1 


1 


1 


1 


.001 








Oil ... . 


f c. 


1353 




135-3 




1218 


• II93 








Mustard . . 


i tsp. 


2 


















Salt .... 


i tsp. 




















Total . . . 


I c. 


200.4 


7.16 


151-48 




1383 


-1363 


.082 


•449 


.0038 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion . . 


I tbsp. 


14.4$ 


•S12 


4.41 




100 


.009 


.005 


.031 


.0003 



^ The small amounts of food substances in the vinegar are considered negligible. 



264 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



French Dressing 



Material 


< 




w S 

^0 


^0 


ga 




^1 

^c3 


H 



u 

$ 


C.AXCIUM 

(Calc. as CaO) 
Grams 


Phosphorus 

(Calc. as P2O5) 

Grams 


f/) 

^0 


Olive oil . . 


6 tbsp. 


68 




68 




612 


.0588 








Vinegar . . 


2 tbsp. 


38 


1 


1 


1 


1 


.003 








Salt .... 






















Pepper . 






















Paprika . . 


ic. 






68 














Total . . . 


106 






6X2 


.0618 








loo-Caloric 






















Portion . 


i^ tbsp. 


17-3 




II 




100 


.0105 









Boiled Dressing 



Butter . . . 


I tsp. 


5-6 


•05 


4.76 




43 


.0052 


.0012 


.0017 




Sugar . . . 


I tsp. 


5-7 






5-7 


22 


.0006 








Flour . . . 


I tsp. 


5 5 


.61 


.005 


4.11 


19 


.0003 


.0013 


.0094 


.0001 


Egg yolks . . 


2 


36.6 


5-74 


12.18 




133 


.0366 


.066 


•35 


.003 


Cream . . . 


I tbsp. 


18.1 


■30 


7.24 


•54 


69 


.008 


.04 


.068 


.0001 


Vinegar . . 


2 tbsp. 








1 


1 


.003 








Total . . . 


g tbsp. 


71S 


6.79 


24.18 


10.35 


286 


•0537 


■I 085 


.4291 


.0031 


100 Calorie 






















Portion . 


3 tbsp. 


24-95 


2.37 


3.61 


3.61 


100 


.0177 


•037 


.1501 


.CXDIO 



References 

Oils 

Cotton Seed and its Products. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Farmers' Bulletin 36. 

Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

Moore. Experiments with Edible Oils. Arkansas Agricultural 
Experiment Station, Bulletin 78 (1903). 

^ The small amounts of food substances in the vinegar are considered negligible. 



SALAD DRESSINGS 265 

Sherman. Food Products. 

Sherman. Organic Analysis, 

Simmons and Mitchell. Edible Fats and Oils. 

ToLMAN and Munson. Olive Oil and its Substitutes. United 

States Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 77 (1902). 
Walker. Coconuts and Coconut Oil. Philippine Journal of Science, 

Vol. I, pages 58-117 (1906). 
Wiley. Foods and their Adulterations. 



CHAPTER XIX 
DESSERTS 

Steamed Puddings 
General Rules. 

Mix as cake. Do not sift graham or entire wheat flour. Molds 
and covers should be well greased. The length of time for steaming 
depends on the size of pudding ; i-6 hours. After steaming, remove 
cover and place in hot oven a minute to dry. Remove from tin and 
serve with a hard or Hquid sauce. 

Steamed Indian Pudding 

Ingredients : 

\ c. meal | c. suet 

I c. flour \ c. molasses 

I tsp. salt \ c. sour milk 

I tsp. soda I c. raisins 

Method : 

Sift dry ingredients and add to the suet mixed with molasses and 
milk. Add the fruit, beat well, and steam. 

Date Pudding 

Ingredients : 

6 tbsp. butter \ tsp. salt 

I c. molasses \ tsp. clove 

I c. milk \ tsp. allspice 

3^ c. flour \ tsp. nutmeg 

I tsp. soda \ lb. dates — chopped 

266 



DESSERTS 



267 



Fig Pudding 




Ingredients : 




^ lb. suet 


^ c. milk 


1 lb. figs — chopped 


2 eggs 


2^ c. bread crumbs 


I c. sugar 



Ingredients : 



Hunters' Pudding 



I c. suet 
I c. molasses 
I c. milk 
3 c. flour 

I tsp. soda 

I I tsp. salt 



I tsp. cloves 
^ tsp. mace 
§ tsp. allspice 

1 tsp. cinnamon 
i| c. raisins 

2 tbsp. flour 



Fruit Pudding (Plum) 

Ingredients : 

I lb. currants 
I lb. raisins 
I lb. citron 
J lb. orange peel 
I lb. lemon peel 
I lb. brown sugar 



I lb. suet 

I lb. bread crumbs 



I tsp. salt 

I c. flour 

4 tsp. cinnamon 

I tsp. nutmeg 

I tsp. allspice 

8 eggs 

I c. brandy 

I c. sherry 



juice and rind i lemon 



Ingredients : 

I c. butter 
I c. sugar 
I c. milk 



Snow Balls 



2i 



c. flour 
3^ tsp. baking powder 



whites 4 eggs 



Individual molds. Serve with jam. 



268 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Pudding Sauces 
Classification : 

Cold. A butter foundation using granulated, brown, or confec- 
tioners' sugar. 

Hot. A foundation of water or fruit juice thickened with eggs, 
sago, arrowroot, cornstarch, or flour. 

Flavors : 

The following may be used as flavoring : 

fresh fruit vanilla 

fruit flavors cooking brandy 

spices 

Sauces for Puddings 

Hard Sauce 

Ingredients : 

\ c. butter i^ tsp. vanilla or 

I c. powdered sugar \ tsp. nutmeg 

Method : 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, beating until light and creamy. 
Add flavoring. Chill thoroughly before serving. 



Sterling Sauce 

Ingredients : 

\ c. butter i tsp. vanilla or lemon 

I c. brown sugar or soft maple sugar 4 tbsp. cream 



Lemon Sauce 

Ingredients : 

1 c. sugar 2 c. boiling water 

2 tbsp. flour I lemon, juice and rind 

2 tbsp. butter 

Method : 

Mix sugar and flour, add water slowly and boil 15 minutes, stirring 
occasionally. When ready to serve, add butter and lemon. 



DESSERTS 269 

Cream Sauce 

Ingredients : 

I egg § c. thick cream 

1 c. powdered sugar § c. milk 

§ tsp. vanilla 
Method : 

Beat white of egg until stiff; add well-beaten yolk and sugar. 
Dilute cream with milk and whip. Combine mixtures and flavor. 

Vanilla Sauce 

Ingredients : 

2 c. boiling water I c. butter 

1 tsp. salt I c. sugar 

2 tbsp. cornstarch i egg 

I tsp. vanilla 
Method : 

Combine cornstarch and salt, mix with a little cold water, and add 
to the boiHng water. Boil 5 minutes, stirring constantly. Cream 
the butter and sugar, add beaten egg and vanilla. Add to first mix- 
ture. Beat well. 

Sabayon Sauce 

Ingredients : 

grated rind and juice § lemon ^ c. sugar 

J c. orange juice 2 eggs 

Method : 

Mix lemon, orange juice, sugar, and yolks of eggs ; stir vigorously 
over fire until it thickens, using a wire whisk or perforated spoon ; 
pour on to whites of eggs beaten stiff ; serve hot. 

Frozen Desserts 

Frozen desserts may well be included more frequently in 
planning meals for the family dietary. They are refreshing, 
give a great opportunity for variety, and when made in the 
home are very economical. 



270 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

The selling price of commercial ice cream must be consider- 
ably higher than the cost of the ingredients because of the 
perishable nature of the product and the uncertainty of 
the demand. Homemade ice cream is therefore usually 
much cheaper than commercial — with the added advantage 
of greater certainty as to the quality of the materials 
used. 

Ice cream is a fairly concentrated food material, while an 
ice is essentially a frozen beverage and is chiefly valuable for 
the fruit juices it contains. Frozen mixtures are cooling and 
refreshing, and when made in the home are economical desserts. 

EXPERIMENTS 

198, — Freezing mixtures : 

The usual proportions of ice and salt for freezing mixtures are as 
follows : 

a. I part ice, i part salt 
h. 2 parts ice, i part salt 

c. 3 parts ice, i part salt 

d. 4 parts ice, i part salt 

Make each of these mixtures and determine as in a physics labora- 
tory experiment the minimum temperature reached by each. 

199. — a. Prepare one recipe each of lemon ice, plain ice cream, 
and caramel cream. 

h. Divide each recipe into four equal parts, A, B, C, D. 

c. Freeze as follows ; record temperature of freezing mix- 
tures throughout the experiment. Record temperature of frozen 
product. 

A. frozen by 198, a. 

B. frozen by 198, h. 

C. frozen by 198, c. 

D. frozen by 198, d. 

Note : In each case turn the freezer evenly and quickly until mixtures are 
frozen, or until you are satisfied mixtures will not freeze. 



DESSERTS 271 

d. Compare results. Note time of freezing, consistency of 
product, fineness of grain, flavor. 

200. — Prepare one recipe of lemon ice. Divide into four parts ; 
use the freezing mixture most successful in 199, c, and freeze the ice 
as follows : 

a. Let freeze without stirring 

b. Stir occasionally 

c. Stir constantly very fast 

Compare results. What is the diflference in consistency and to 
what due? 

201. ^ Use the fourth part of the lemon ice prepared in 200, 
and add to it a small amount of gelatin (see rule for lemon 
jelly and add corresponding amount of gelatin to liquid). Freeze 
ice by stirring constantly and compare the result with the ices 
previously made. Of what value is gelatin in a frozen mixture? 
Could whites of eggs be used ? 

Note : Would it be possible to use sugar in place of salt in a freezing mix- 
ture? 

202. — Prepare i c. of lemon ice, put in a pint jar and freeze, using 
sugar instead of salt. Why does the sugar lower the temperature 
and cause the lemon ice to freeze? 

Note : These experiments are very enlightening and interesting if glass 
containers for the frozen mixture are used. Preserving jars, 
cream jars, or jelly glasses serve the purpose. 

203. — a. Prepare one " quantity " of ice cream. Divide into four 
equal parts, A, B, C, D. 

b. Freeze and pack A in a freezer having a wooden con- 
tainer for the ice. 

c. Freeze and pack B in a freezer having a galvanized iron 
container. 

d. Freeze and pack C in a glass jar. 

e. Freeze D in any freezer but pack in the fireless cooker. 
Allow all to stand 4 hours. Compare as to conductivity of containers. 



272 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Fillers in Ice Cream 

a. Kinds 

1. Starchy, wheat, rice, and cornstarch. 

2. Egg, used in French ice cream. 

h. Purposes 

1. Gives firmer body. 

2. Better standing-up qualities. 

c. Advantages 

1. Increases keeping qualities. 

2. Improves texture. 

d. Disadvantages 

1. Egg and starchy fillers have to be cooked. 

2. Cannot be kept in stock form. 

3. In excess gives soggy cream. 

4. In excess reduces the swell. 

Binders in Ice Cream 

a. Kinds 

1. Gelatin — animal origin. Dissolved in boiling water or milk 
and added at once. 

2. Gum tragacanth — vegetable origin. Is replacing gelatin. 

h. Purpose — to bind the mixture and improve texture. 

c. Advantages 

1. Prevents grainy texture. 

2. Keeps water from forming crystals. 

d. Disadvantages 

1. Slight inferiority of gelatin may be disguised by other in- 
gredients. 

2. Allows a warmer holding temperature, which permits more 
rapid deterioration. 

Ice Cream Powders 

Powdered gelatin and gum tragacanth to which is added 2-3 times 
its weight in sugar. 



DESSERTS 273 

Classification of Frozen Desserts 

1. Ices. Fruit juices, diluted and sweetened. 

a. Sherbet. Ice containing gelatin or egg whites. 

h. Milk sherbet. Fruit juices and milk, sweetened. 

c. Frappe. Partly frozen ices. 

d. Punch. Sherbet highly flavored with liquid, fruit juices, or 
spice. 

e. Souffle. Sherbet containing the whole egg. 

2. Ice Cream 

a. Philadelphia.^ Cream, flavored and sweetened. 

b. French.^ Cream, custard, flavored and sweetened. 

3. Parfait. Cream, sugar, and egg whites with or without fruits, 
nuts, or flavorings. 

4. Mousse. Frozen whipped cream, sweetened and flavored. 

5. Pudding. Cream, custard, fruit, and nuts highly flavored. 

6. Lacto. Sour, skimmed, or whole milk, eggs and sugar, flavored. 

7. Junket. Frozen junket. 

Ice Creams and Ices 

General Rules for Freezing. 

Scald the can, cover, and dasher of freezer before using them. 
Adjust the can carefully in the tub before packing. 
Pack freezer up to lower edge of cover, pour in mixture, readjust 
and pack to completely cover the can. 
For freezing, use : 

3 parts finely chopped ice 
I part rock salt 

For packing after freezing, use : 

4 parts ice 

I part rock salt 

^ These terms are not always used in the sense here given. By some, "Philadel- 
phia ice cream" is imderstood to mean one whose ingredients have been cooked 
before freezing. 



274 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

For freezing cream, the crank should be turned slowly and steadily. 

When mixture is frozen, remove ice and salt from top of can, wipe 
cover and top, uncover and carefully remove dasher. Cover and 
put a stopper in cover. Drain off all the water which has collected 
in the tub during freezing; repack with ice and salt (4-1), cover 
with something heavy and allow to stand several hours to ripen. 



Vanilla Ice Cream 

Ingredients : 

I qt. cream f c. sugar 

I tsp. vanilla 
Method : 

Scald \ the cream, add the sugar, remainder of cream and vanilla. 
Cool and freeze according to directions. 



Chocolate Sauce 

Ingredients : 

I oz. chocolate i tbsp. butter 

I c. sugar \ c. water 

I tsp. vanilla 
Method : 

Melt chocolate, add butter, sugar, water. Boil 15 minutes, cool, 
and add vanilla. 

Strawberry Ice Cream 

Ingredients : 

I qt. berries 2 c. sugar 

I qt. cream 

Method : 

Mash berries, add sugar and let stand i hour. Rub through a 
colander or fine strainer. Add the cream whipped. 



Frozen Custard I 

Ingredients : 

2 c. milk I tbsp. vanilla 

I c. sugar I pt. cream 

3 eggs 



DESSERTS 275 

Frozen Custard II 

Ingredients : 

2 c. scalded milk | tsp. salt 

1 c. sugar I qt. thin cream 
5 eggs 2 tbsp. vanilla 

Method : 

Make a custard of first four ingredients. Strain, cool, add cream 
and vanilla. Freeze. 

Caramel Ice Cream I 

Ingredients : 

2 c. milk 4 yolks 

I c. sugar I c. sugar, caramelized 

1 c. flour I qt. cream 

Method : 

Cook first three ingredients 20 minutes in double boiler, add yolks 
and cook 2 minutes. Add caramel, strain, cool, and add cream. 

Caramel Ice Cream II 

Ingredients : 

2 c. scalded milk i c. sugar 

I c. sugar I c. boihng water 

3 eggs I qt. thin cream 
I tsp. salt 2 tsp. vanilla 

Method : 

Make a custard of first four ingredients. Strain and cool. Cara- 
melize the I c. sugar and add the boiling water to it. Combine mix- 
tures, add cream and vanilla. Freeze. When half frozen, add i c. 
chopped nuts and raisins. 

. Prune Ice Cream 

Ingredients : 

I c. prunes i c. sugar 

I I c. water 4 tbsp. lemon juice 
i| c, cream (scalded) \ tsp. salt 



276 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Prepare the prunes for cooking and boil them in one and one half 
cups water until the pulp is soft. Rub the pulp through a strainer, 
add the sugar, lemon juice, salt, and scalded cream. 

Lacto Ice Cream 

Ingredients : 

I qt. sour milk i§ c. sugar 

\ c. grape juice \ c. lemon juice 

I egg 

Method : 

Beat the eggs in the grape juice until the liquid is somewhat 
thickened. Add this to the sour milk, to which has been added the 
sugar and lemon juice. 

Chocolate Ice Cream 

Ingredients : 

I c. water 2 oz. chocolate 

I c. sugar I qt. cream 

I tbsp. vanilla 

Method : 

Melt chocolate over hot water, add hot water and boil 5 minutes. 
Add salt and cool. Add cream and vanilla. 

Coffee Ice Cream 

Ingredients : 

I c. coffee f c. boiling water 

Method : 

Make boiled coffee, add to recipe of plain frozen custard. Omit 
vanilla. 

Sherbets 

Milk Sherbet 

Ingredients : 

I qt. milk or cream 2 c. sugar 

I c. lemon juice rind i lemon 



DESSERTS 277 



Method : 

Let lemon juice and sugar stand i hour. Add milk. 



Ingredients : 


Orange Sherbet 


I qt. milk or cream ij c. sugar 


3 tbsp. lemon 


juice I c. orange juice 


Ingredients : 


Pineapple Sherbet 


I qt. milk or cream if c. sugar 


5 tbsp. lemon 


juice f c. orange juice 




I pineapple, grated 


Ingredients : 


Combination Sherbet 


4 c. water 


pulp of 2 oranges 


2 c. sugar 


pulp of 2 lemons 




pulp of 2 bananas 




Ices 


Ingredients : 


Lemon Ice 


4 c. water 


2 c. sugar 



J c. lemon juice 

Method : 

Make a sirup by boiling sugar and water 5 minutes, add lemon 
juice, cool, strain, and freeze. 



Orange Ice 

Ingredients : 

4 c. water grated rind of 2 oranges 

2 c. sugar 2 c. orange juice 

I c. lemon juice 



278 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Frozen Grape Juice 

Follow recipe for orange ice, using 2 c. grape juice instead of orange. 



Ingredients : 

I qt. can fruit 



Frozen Apricots or Peaches 



if c. sugar 



water 

Method : 

Drain fruit and cut in small pieces. To the sirup, add enough 
water to make 4 cups, and cook with sugar 5 minutes ; strain, add 
fruit, cool, and freeze. 



Ingredients : 

4 c. water 
2 c. water 



Pineapple Ice 

juice 2 lemons 
juice 2 oranges 
1 1 pineapples, grated 



Ingredients : 



4 c. water 
i^ c. sugar 



Strawberry Ice 



2 c. strawberry juice 
2 tbsp. lemon juice 



Ingredients : 

4 c. water 
I c. sugar 



Raspberry Ice 



2 c. raspberry juice 
juice I lemon 



Ingredients : 

4 c. water 



Currant Ice 



if c. sugar 



2 c. currant juice 



Ingredients : 



4 c. water 
i| c. sugar 



Currant and Raspberry 



f c. raspberry juice 
i| c. currant juice 



Ingredients : 

4 c. water 
2 c. sugar 

Ingredients : 

4 c. water 
I c. sugar 

5 c. lemon juice 



DESSERTS 
Mint Ice 



Ginger Ice 



279 



juice 2 lemons 

leaves of 1 2 stalks of mint 



I lb. Canton ginger cut in 

pieces 
^ c. orange juice 



Ingredients : 

2 c. milk 
2 eggs 

6 tbsp. flour 
I c. sugar 
I tsp. vanilla 



Puddings 



Frozen Pudding 



I tsp. salt 

1 qt. cream 

2 tbsp. rum 
4 tbsp. madeira 
I tbsp. brandy 

I c. maraschino cherries 
Method : 

Cook flour and milk 20 minutes in a double boiler, stirring until it 
thickens. Pour over the eggs and sugar. Return to double boiler 
and cook a little longer, stirring constantly. Strain, cool, and add 
remaining ingredients. 



Ingredients : 



Nesselrode Pudding 



I c. sugar 
I c. chestnuts 
I c. boiling water 
§ lb. candied fruit 



I c. almonds shelled 
I c. cream 

I c. canned pineapple 
yolks 3 eggs 
§ tbsp. vanilla 

2 tbsp. sherry 

Method : 

Shell chestnuts, remove from skin, boil until soft and press through 
a colander. Blanch, dry, and pound almonds. Add fruit cut in 



28o LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

small pieces. Boil sugar and water 15 minutes, and pour over the 
well-beaten yolks. Cook in a double boiler until egg thickens. 
Cool, beating constantly. Add other ingredients. After freezing let 
ripen 4-5 hours. 

Sauce for Nesselrode Pudding 

Ingredients : 

3 egg yolks i^ c. whipped cream 

3 tbsp. powdered sugar ^ tsp. vanilla 

Method : 

Beat eggs until thick, add sugar and beat again. Stir in a double 
boiler until it thickens slightly. Pour into a bowl and beat until 
creamy. Add flavoring and cream ; i tbsp. brandy or wine may be 
added. 

Baked Alaska 

Turn I qt. brick Vanilla Ice Cream out on an oblong sponge cake. 
Cover with a meringue made of 4 whites of eggs. Brown in a very 
hot oven. Place the cake on a paper, on a board, before turning out 
the ice cream. 

Ice Cream Molds 

Freeze the cream very hard. Pack solidly into the mold, cover 
and wrap with several thicknesses of paper. Tie with strong cord 
and pack. 

Mousses 

Coffee Mousse 

Ingredients : 

I pt. cream i c. black coffee 

^ c. powdered sugar 5 tsp. salt 

Method : 

Whip the cream, add sugar and coffee, turn mixture into a mold, 
pack in ice and salt, and let stand five hours. 



DESSERTS 281 

Chocolate Mousse 
Substitute 4 oz. melted chocolate for coffee in Coffee Mousse. 

Strawberry Mousse 
Substitute 2 c. mashed strawberries for coffee. 

Fruit Mousses 

Mix 2 c. of any fruit pulp, with powdered sugar to sweeten, with 
the whip from one pint cream, A small amount of lemon juice 
brings out the flavor of other fruits. 

Grape Juice Mousse 

Substitute i c. grape juice for coffee in the above direction for 
Coffee Mousse. 

Parfaits 

Silver Parfait 

Ingredients : 

I c. sugar 3 egg whites 

I c. water i pt. cream 

flavoring 

Method : 

Boil sugar and water until it threads. Pour on to the beaten whites 
of eggs, add whip from cream, flavoring, pack in ice and salt, and 
let stand 4 hoiurs. 



Ingredients : 



Golden Parfait 



I c. sugar 6 egg yolks 

^ c. water i pt. cream 



282 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Score Cards 

Sherbets and Ices 

Texture 20 

Consistency (10) 

Smoothness (10) 

Color 5 

Degree of freezing 10 

Freedom from water crystals 5 

Flavors 60 

Retained flavor (15) 

Imperceptibility of binder (35) 

DeUcacy (10) 

100 



Philadelphia Ice Cream 

Texture 20 

Color 5 

Flavor . 60 

Degree of freezing . . 15 

100 

Custard Ice Cream 

Texture 20 

Consistency (5) 

Smoothness (10) 

Condition of solid ingredients (5) 

Color 5 

Flavor 60 

Delicacy (30) 

Imperceptibility of filler (30) 

Degree of freezing 15 

100 



DESSERTS 



283 



FOOD VALUES 
Vanilla Ice Cream 



Milk Sherbet 













U 






1 ^ 


^ 




Material 


< 


^0 


£0 


[t, u 


< 




s 

$ 


Calcium 

(Calc. as CaO 

Grams 


Phosphorus 

(Calc. as P2O6 

Grams 


si 

^0 


Cream . 


I c. 


246.1 


5-41 


98.44 


7.38 


937 


•125 


•65 


•93 


.0009 


Sugar . 


3 tbsp. 


38.4 






38.4 


153 


.0056 








Vanilla . . . 


i| tsp. 


3-3 










.0023 








Total, cooked 


lie. 


270.4 


5-41 


98.44 


45-78 


1090 


.1329 


.65 


•93 


.cxx>9 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion . . 


2 tbsp. 


24.6 


•49 


8.9s 


4.16 


100 


.012 


•059 


.084 


.0001 



Sugar . . . 


6 tbsp. 


78.6 






78.6 


314 


.0112 








Milk . . . 


u. 


1157 


3^82 


4-63 


5-79 


80 


.025 


.19 


.24 


.0002 


Cream . 


u. 


II3-7 


2-5 


45-48 


3-41 


433 


.0625 


•3 


•43 


.0004 


Lemon juice . 


3 tbsp. 


399 






3-91 


16 


.0167 


.012 


.009 




Total . . . 


i|c. 


347-9 


6.32 


50-11 


91.71 


843 


■I 154 


• 502 


.679 


.0006 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion . . 


2 tbsp. 


41.26 


4.89 


5-94 


10.88 


100 


.0136 


.06 


.081 


.0001 



References 
Ice Cream 

Alexander. Effect of Gelatin in IceC ream. Zeitschrift fiir Chemie 
und Industrie der Kolloide, vol. 5, pages 101-103 (1909). 

Sherman. Food Products. 

Washburn. Principles and Practice of Ice-Cream Making. Ver- 
mont Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 155. 

Wiley. Ice Cream. United States Public Health Service, Hygienic 
Laboratory, Bulletin 56, pages 249-312 (1909). 



CHAPTER XX 
SUGAR AND CANDY 

Cane sugar is found in the fruits and juices of many plants 
but the principal source is the sugar cane and the sugar beet. 
Cane sugar is made, however, from the maple and palm trees. 
By-products of the sugar made from cane are brown sugar and 
molasses. Corn sirup is made from corn and is lighter in color 
than molasses. It cannot be made to take the hard ball stage 
as molasses will, hence is not suitable for pulled candies or 
butterscotch, but for softer creams or stirred candies it is very 
acceptable. Corn sirup may be used for taffy by the addition 
of granulated sugar. Maple sirup is made from the sap of 
the maple tree and is essentially an American product. Maple 
sugar is made from the maple sirup and is sold as commonly 
as the sirup. Honey is made from the sugar of flowers by bees, 
and that obtained from clover is considered the finest. Honey 
made early in the summer is sweeter than that made later, 
when a bitter flavor (attributed to goldenrod) is apt to be im- 
parted. 

(See Sherman's Food Products, pages 397-444, for descrip- 
tion of sugar industries, sirups, and confectionery.) 

The sole nutritive function of the sugars is to serve as fuel, 
and the amount which can wisely be eaten is limited because of 
its tendency to irritate the stomach either directly or through 

fermentation. 

284 



SUGAR AND CANDY 285 

EXPERIMENTS 

Sugar 

Sirups — of use in frozen desserts and candy making. 

Various degrees of densities of sirups are recognized with the ther- 
mometer or by testing in cold water for the soft ball, hard ball, crack, 
hard crack, and caramel stage. 

204. — Boil 2 c. sugar in ^ c. water. Note changes in boiling point 
as the solution becomes more condensed. When the thermometer 
registers various degrees, remove sirup from burner and test in cold 
water for the corresponding stage. 

"softbaU," . . . . °F. . . °C. 

" hard baU," . . . . °F. . . °C. 

"crack," °F. . . °C. 

'' hard crack," . . . °F. . . °C. 

"barley," ....'. °F. . . °C. 

"caramel," . . . . °F. . . °C. 

a. Note the density of each stage, together with its cor- 
responding temperature. 

b. Prepare a candy at each stage. 

c. What kinds of candy is each suitable for? 

d. In what ways could sirups prepared at the various tem- 
peratures be used ? 

e. What sirup is best for : 

ice ? 

sherbet ? 
frappe ? 

205. — Repeat Expt. 204, using the following: 

a. Powdered sugar 

b. Confectioners' sugar 

c. Brown sugar 

d. Molasses 

e. Maple sugar 

/. What are the results ? Conclusions ? 



286 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

206. — Boil 2 c. sugar in | c. water to which ^ tsp. cream of tartar 
has been added. Carry through the various stages. 

Turn out part of the sirup at each stage and see if you can beat or 
pull it. 

207. — a. Repeat Expt. 206, using vinegar (i tbsp.) and lemon 
juice (2 tbsp.). Compare results with 204 and 205. 

h. Of what use are cream of tartar, vinegar, or lemon 



juice 



? 



208. — Prepare molasses candy, boiling it to the hard crack stage. 
Just before turning sirup out to cool, add \ tsp. soda. Note result 
in sirup and in candy when pulled. 



Fondant 

Ingredients : 

2 c. granulated sugar § c. cold water 

Method : 

Mix the sugar and water together in a saucepan. Place saucepan 
over heat and stir the contents with a wooden spoon until the sugar 
is dissolved. Allow the sirup to boil gently without further stirring 
until the '' soft ball " stage is reached. Turn sirup on to a greased 
platter and let it remain undisturbed until a thin film has formed 
over the surface. When this has formed, with a wooden spoon stir 
the sirup until it becomes white and creamy. If sufficiently stiff 
turn the fondant on to a marble or kneading board and make per- 
fectly smooth. The fondant will work up better if allowed to re- 
main in the ice box overnight, but if necessary, it can be made up 
at once. 

Precautions : 

1. Scald the saucepan before using for boiling fondant, lest any 
odor of previous cooking appear in the fondant. 

2. Do not stir the sirup after the sugar is melted. (Why?) 

3. Do not allow the sirup to boil vigorously. If the sirup boils 
vigorously, crystals of sugar will be deposited in thick masses on the 
sides of the saucepan and are likely to mix with the sirup and appear 



SUGAR AND CANDY 287 

in the final product. A damp cheesecloth on a fork used to remove 
the crystals as fast as formed on the sides of the saucepan will help to 
prevent crystals from mixing with the sirup. 

4. When testing the sirup always remove the saucepan from the 
burner so that if the proper stage is reached it will not proceed to the 
" hard ball " stage and so become too crystalline. 

5. Have the platter ready greased before the sirup is to be poured 
out. 

6. Do not scrape the last of the sirup from the pan, as it will 
appear as a hard sugary mass in the fondant. 

7. Use a minimum amount of butter with which to grease the 
platter. 

8. Wash the hands with cold water just before kneading the 
fondant. 

9. Cover the fondant with paraffin paper when putting it away to 
stand overnight. 

10. If fondant is quite soft when done, do not leave it in the ice 
box — a cupboard is better — but if quite stiff put it in the ice box 
to stand overnight and it will be easier to handle. 

Fondant may be used as follows : 

Creams Filling 

Drops Dates 

Walnuts Cherries 

Balls Chocolate peppermints 

Covering 

Small fruits Eclairs 

Nuts Cake 

Fruit sections Hot cross buns 

pineapple 

orange 

To make Cream Drops 

I. Divide the fondant into as many parts as you wish to make 
colors. 



288 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

2. Have ready the following : 

double boiler color 

spatula flavoring 

teaspoon sheet of parafiEin paper 

toothpicks spread on a perfectly 

saucepan of boiling water flat surface 

3. Place the fondant in the double boiler and allow it to heat over 
hot water until soft. With the toothpick take up a tiny bit of color 
and stir it through the softened fondant. If sufficient color has not 
been added, repeat, but remember that a little color on the toothpick 
goes a long way in the fondant. 

4. Now add the flavoring, using precaution that too much is not 
added. 

5. If the fondant is still quite thick, add a few drops of boiling 
water and stir the whole mixture with the spatula ^ only enough to 
mix the color, flavor, and water, as too much will make it " grainy." 

6. Bring the double boiler to the side of the paraffin paper and, 
using the teaspoon, allow the fondant to drop from the tip of the 
spoon on to the paper. Hold the spoon in this one position so that 
the fondant will be directed into the center of the drop and the result 
will be a circular candy. 

Notes : i. If the fondant piles up on the spoon, not enough hot water was 
added. 

2. If the drops are coarse-grained or rough, the fondant has been 

overcooked and over-stirred. This can sometimes be 
remedied by complete recooking as though using cane sugar. 

3. If white spots appear in the drops on standing, the fondant was 

stirred in the double boiler too much. These are not abso- 
lutely undesirable, but the creams wiU be hard or brittle. 
They are not perfect cream drops. 

4. The candies dropped on the paper if irregular or too thick may 

be remelted and redropped once, but more than that is 
likely to cause coarse-grained candies. 

5. Do not mix the candies to be done over with first mixture in the 

double boiler, but wait until that is used. 

^ The spatula is the most convenient utensil for this purpose. The fondant 
clings to any utensil used, but is more easily removed without waste from the 
spatula than from a spoon. 



SUGAR AND CANDY 289 

To make Walnut Creams : 

1. Divide the fondant into portions by measuring with the tea- 
spoon, I tsp. to each portion. 

2. Wash and dry the walnuts, using unbroken halves. 

3. Shape the fondant by rolling it lightly between the palms of 
the hands. 

4. Place a walnut meat on one side of the ball and arrange the 
second in a corresponding position on the other side. Press together 
slightly and the fondant will form a uniform mass between the nut 
meats. The fondant should protrude very slightly beyond the nuts. 

5. Pecans or almonds may be used in place of walnuts. 

To make Chocolate Peppermints : 

Prepare cream drops as in making Cream Drops, using peppermint 
flavoring but no color. To cover the creams, chocolate for the pur- 
pose is on the market, but unsweetened chocolate may be used. The 
latter will not have a glaze, but a little butter melted with the choco- 
late gives a slight glaze. 

Melt the chocolate over hot water, place the cream drops in the 
warm chocolate, and remove when well coated by using a fork. Place 
on a paraffin paper to dry. 

Care must be taken in removing from the chocolate and placing 
the creams on the paraffin, or the chocolate becomes unevenly dis- 
tributed on the creams. 

Fondant used as Covering: 

1, When fondant is used as a covering for fruits, melt it in a double 
boiler and immerse the fruits in it. Remove to a paraffin paper to 
dry. 

2. When fondant is used as a covering for small cakes, have slightly 
more liquid than for fruits. Use cake one day old so that a fork 
can be held in it. 

Put the fork in the bottom of the cake and carefully lower it until 
the fondant comes well up on the sides of the cake. Lift the 
cake out and place, right side up, on a parafifin to dry. A Httle 
practice will probably be required before a perfect result will be 
obtained. 



290 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Decorate the cakes with tiny pieces of angeHca, citron, candied 
fruit, nuts, rose leaves, violet leaves, or candy flowers. 

3. To cover large cakes or hot cross buns with fondant, melt it 
in a double boiler and arrange it on the cake as desired, using a spoon 
and spatula while it is still warm. This is the easiest process of any 
of the ways of using fondant and requires very little skill. 



Candy 



Ingredients : 

2 c. sugar 
^ c. milk 
y\ tsp. salt 



Chocolate Fudge 



2 oz. chocolate 
I tbsp. butter 
I tsp. vanilla 



Method : 

Melt chocolate and butter, add sugar and milk and stir until sugar 
dissolves. Cook without stirring until it forms a soft ball when 
dropped in cold water. Let stand in cold water until cool. Add 
vanilla and beat until it can be handled. Mold, and place in buttered 
pan. 



Penoche 

Ingredients : 

I c. brown sugar 

I c. granulated sugar 

\ c. milk or cream 

rV tsp. salt 
Method: 

Proceed as for chocolate fudge. 



I tbsp. butter 
I c. nut meats 
I tsp. vanilla 



Ingredients : 

1 lb. maple sugar 

2 tbsp. butter 



Maple Fudge 



X5 tsp. salt 



I c. milk 
iV tsp. soda 



SUGAR AND CANDY 



291 



Method . 



Mell butter and sugar, add soda and bring to boiling point. Add 
milk slowly, stirring constantly; add salt. Proceed as for chocolate 
fudge. 



Ingredients: 



3 c. sugar 
I c. cream 



Karo Cream Fudge 



I tbsp. lemon juice 



^ c. Karo 
I lb. tigs 



Ingredients: 



3 c. sugar 
I c. cream 



Walnut Cream Fudge 



f c. Karo 
I c. walnuts 



I tsp. vanilla 



_ -. Victoria Fudge 

Ingredients : 

2 c. sugar 1 c. butter 

4 c. milk I c. coconut 

\ c. each cherries, figs, and pineapples 

Prepare as fudge — fruit flavoring added when cold. 



Claire Creams 

Ingredients : 

2 c. brown sugar i c. nuts 

I c. cream i c. candied cherries 

I lb. marshmallows 

Method : 

Boil cream and sugar as fudge. Beat until creamy and add § c. 
nut meats and pour in pan. Melt marshmallows, stirring constantly, 
and add nuts and cherries. Pour over top of fudge. 



292 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Fluff 



lenk 

2 C. 


s: 
sugar 






white 


I egg 


ic. 


water 






TB tsp. 


salt 




ic. 


nut meats 


or 


candied cherries 





Method : 

Cook sugar and water to thread stage and pour slowly on beaten 
white of egg. Add nuts and beat until stiff enough to hold shape 
when dropped from tip of a teaspoon on parafhn paper or buttered 
plates. 

Turkish Nougat 

Ingredients : 

3 c. sugar 2 tbsp. corn sirup 

I c. Karo or other corn sirup whites 3 eggs 

I c. water i c. nut meats 

Method : 

Boil sugar, water, and i c. corn sirup to hard crack. Have eggs 
beaten stiff and fold into them 2 tbsp. sirup. Beat eggs into boiled 
mixture and pour on to oiled paper. 

Honey Puffs 

Ingredients : 

3 c. sugar I c. nuts i c. cream 

\ c. honey i c. candied pineapple white i egg 

Method : 

Boil sugar and cream until it will almost spin a thread. Add \ c. 
honey and cook to " soft ball " stage. Take from fire and add i 
beaten white of egg. Beat i minute and add i c. each chopped nuts 
and candied pineapple. Beat until creamy, and form into balls. 
Place on paraffin paper. 

Molasses Candy 

Ingredients : 

3 c. brown sugar i tbsp. butter 

I c. molasses i tsp. soda 

I c. water 2 tbsp. vanilla 



SUGAR AND CANDY 293 

Method : 

Cook all but soda and vanilla until mixture cracks when dropped 
into cold water. Beat in soda and vanilla and pour on a buttered 
plate. Draw edges in toward center until cold enough to handle; 
pull until light and smooth. Cut into inch pieces with sharp scissors. 

Peanut Brittle 

Ingredients : 

I c. sugar ^-i c. peanuts 

(i qt. unshelled) 
Method : 

Melt sugar in iron pan until a light brown sirup, remove imme- 
diately, add nuts, chopped if desired, spread on an inverted tin plate 
and mark into squares when cool. 

Butterscotch 

Ingredients : 

1 c. sugar I c. Karo sirup 

1-4 tbsp. butter 
Method : 

Boil without stirring until brittle when dropped in cold water. 
Pour into shallow buttered pan and when cool mark into squares. 

Glace for Nuts and Fruits 

Ingredients : 

2 c. sugar I c. water 

I c. vinegar 

Method : 

Boil sugar and water to the thread stage. Add vinegar and 
boil until color changes. Keep over boiling water while dipping. 
Skin of orange sections should not be broken. Cherries and grapes 
on stems should be hung on wires. 

Candied Orange Peel 

Wipe 4 oranges and remove peel in quarters. Put peel in sauce- 
pan, cover with cold water, bring to boiling point and then simmer 
until soft. Drain and scrape off | of the white portion. Cut in 



294 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

thin strips. Boil i c. sugar and | c. water until it spins a thread. 
Cook strips in the sirup 5 minutes. Drain. Roll in granulated sugar. 

Salted Almonds I 

Blanch Jordan almonds by allowing them to stand in boiling water 
until it loosens the skins. Drain, place in a shallow pan, sprinkle 
with salt and small pieces of butter. Brown in a pan in broihng 
oven, stirring frequently. Drain on paper. 

Salted Almonds II 

Ingredients : 

I pt. water i c. almonds 

I c. salt 2 tbsp. butter or olive oil 

Method : 

Blanch almonds as described above. Boil salt and water, add 
almonds and cook 8 minutes. Drain and place them in a baking 
pan, dot over with butter and bake until a delicate brown, stirring 
frequently. Drain on brown paper. 

References 
Sugar 

Abel. Sugar and Its Value as Food. United States Agriculture 
Department, Farmers' Bulletin No. 535 (1913). 

Blakey. The United States Sugar Beet Industry. 

Browne. Handbook of Sugar Analysis. 

Deerr. Cane Sugar Manufacture. 

Deerr. Sugar and the Sugar Cane. 

Ellis. An Introduction to the History of Sugar as a Commodity. 

Geerling. The World's Cane Sugar Industry, Past and Present. 

Sherman. Food Products. 

Snell. Maple Sap Products and the Canadian Standards. Re- 
printed from the Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry 
(1914). 

Thorpe. Outlines of Industrial Chemistry. 

Wiley. Foods and their Adulteration. 



CHAPTER XXI 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



Ingredients : 

5 c. coffee 
2 eggs 



Beverages 
Boiled Coffee 

I c. cold water 



2 c. cold water 

8 qts. boiling water 



Ingredients 



if c. cocoa 
2 c. sugar 



Reception Cocoa 



I pt. water 



8 qts. milk 

I qt. boiling water 



Ingredients : 

J c. tea 



Tea 



lo qts. boiling water 



Ingredients , 



4 c. sugar 
I qt. water 



Lemonade 



8 qts. water 
3 doz. lemons 



* As a rule only the Ingredients will be given in this chapter since the same Methods 
may be followed as in the preceding chapters. 

295 



296 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Fruit Punch 

Ingredients : 

2 lbs. sugar i qt. water 

8 lemons i pt. grape juice or tea 

6 oranges i pt. canned pineapple 

6 qts. water juice, or other fruit 

I pt. shredded pineapple juice 

I pt. strawberries or cherries 

Fruits 

Apple Sauce 

Ingredients : 

50 large apples 3-4 qts. water 

9 c. sugar juice 2 lemons (or 2 

grated nutmegs) 

Stewed Apricots 

Ingredients : 

4 lbs. dried apricots 4 qts. cold water 

4 c. sugar 

Stewed Prunes 

Ingredients : 

4 lbs. prunes 4 c. sugar 

4 qts. cold water juice i orange 

juice I lemon 

Baked Rhubarb 

Ingredients : 

16 lbs. rhubarb 4 qts. sugar 

Cranberry Jelly 

Ingredients : 

4 qts. cranberries 8 c. sugar 

I qt. water 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



297 



Ingredients : 

4^ qts. berries 



Cranberry Sauce 



i§ qts. water 



6 c. sugar 



Combination of Fruits 

Ingredients : 

1 doz. oranges i can Hawaiian pineapple 
3 lbs. grapes 6 grapefruit 

2 baskets strawberries 6 bananas 



Sirup: 

2 c. sugar 
4 c. water 
. juice I lemon 



Cereals 
Cream of Wheat 



Ingredients : 

f lb. cream of wheat 



5 tbsp. salt 



Ingredients : 

I lb. oatmeal 



Ingredients : 

5 c. rice 



4I qts. water 



Oatmeal 



5 tbsp. salt 



4 qts. boiling water 



Boiled Rice 



7 qts. water 



X c. salt 



Ingredients : 

5 c. rice 



Steamed Rice 



if qts. water 



z c. salt 



298 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Vegetables 





Creamed 




Asparagus 


8 bunches 


4 qts. white sauce II 


Cabbage 


10 lbs. 


3 qts. white sauce II 


Carrots 


12 lbs. 


3 qts. white sauce II 


Cauliflower 


6-8 


3 qts. white sauce II 


Celery 


8 qts. cubed 


3 qts. white sauce II 


Onions 


I pk. 


3 qts. white sauce II 


Potatoes 


8 qts. cubed 


4 qts. white sauce II 


Turnips 


12 lbs. 
Mashed Potatoes 


3 qts. white sauce II 


Ingredients : 






I pk. potatoes 




I c. butter 


I qt. milk 




5 tbsp. salt 




Stuffed Baked Potatoes 


Ingredients : 






50 potatoes 




i^ tbsp. salt 


i| c. hot milk 




? tsp. pepper 



I c. butter 



Ingredients : 

5 lbs. potatoes 
4 eggs 



^c. 



butter 



juice I omon 



Potato Croquettes 



\ tsp. cayenne 
1 1 tbsp. salt 
\ c. chopped parsley 
I c. milk 



Ingredients : 

6 qts. sliced potatoes 
2 qts. hot milk 
i c. flour 



Scalloped Potatoes 



i^ c. butter 
3 tbsp. salt 
juice I lemon 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



299 



Sweet Potato Croquettes 



Ingredients : 






5 lbs. sweet potatoes 


^ c. parsley 


5 eggs 




i^ tsp. salt 


\ c. butter 




1 tsp. cayenne 


Glazed Sweet Potatoes 
Ingredients : 


i^ pks. sweet potatoes 


3 c. sugar 


^ c. butter 




i^ c. water 


salt 




1 tsp. pepper 


Ingredients : 


Corn Pudding 




6 No. 2 cans corn 




1 2 eggs — beaten sepa- 


3 qts. milk 




rately 


2 tbsp. salt 




3 qts. bread crumbs 


5 tbsp. sugar 


§ tsp. pepper 


f c. butter 


Ingredients : 


Stuffed Peppers 




25 large peppers 




2 qts. bread crumbs 


3 qts. chopped meat 


juice I large onion 


salt 




pepper 


Ingredients : 


Stewed Tomatoes 




8 qts, tomatoes 




4 tbsp. salt 


I c. butter 




1 tsp. cayenne 


1 c. sugar 




4 c. bread crumbs 


Ingredients : 


Baked Tomatoes 




50 tomatoes 




^ c. sugar 


3^ tbsp. salt 




^ c. parsley 


I tsp. pepper 




juice 2 onions 


I c. butter 




2 qts. bread crumbs 



300 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Soups 

Cream Soup — Celery 

Ingredients : 

8 qts. celery, cubed 7 qts. scalded milk 

6 qts. boiling water 2 c. butter 

2 onions 2f c. flour 

pepper, cayenne 5 tbsp. salt 



Cream Soup — 

Ingredients : 


- Corn 


8 cans corn 


7 qts. scalded milk 


3 qts. boiling water 


2 c. butter 


2 onions 


i| c. flour 


pepper, cayenne 


5 tbsp. salt 



Cream Soup — Tomato 

Ingredients : 

6 qts. canned tomatoes 6 qts. scalded milk 

6 bay leaves i§ c. butter 

1 tsp. peppercorns i^ c. flour 

2 onions i tbsp. baking soda 
^ c. sugar salt 

pepper 

Cream Soup — Potato 

Ingredients : 

8 lbs. potatoes 2 c. butter 

4 onions I2 c. flour 

2 qts. boiling water 6 tbsp. salt 

I c. chopped parsley i tbsp. celery salt 

10 qts. scalded milk | tsp. cayenne 

Brown Stock Soup 

Ingredients : 

10 lbs. beef and bone 8 qts. water 

I tsp. peppercorns 12 cloves 

4 bay leaves parsley 
I c. each carrots, onion, celery, turnip 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



301 



Mongole Soup 

Ingredients : 

4 qts. stock 

2 tbsp. allspice berries 

4 bay leaves 

I large onion 



4 qts, tomatoes 

24 cloves 

parsley 

I tsp. celery seed 



Creole 



Ingredients : 






6 qts. stock 




4 qts. tomatoes 


I c. peppers 




1 c. onion 


salt 


cayenne 


pepper 



Sauce with Mongole Soup 

Ingredients : 

f c. butter 

I tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 



J c. flour 

2 tbsp. vinegar 



Ingredients : 

1^ c. butter 



Sauce with Creole Soup 



ic, 



horseradish 



I c. macaroni rings 



flour 



2 tbsp. vinegar 



Ingredients : 

2 shins beef 

10 qts. cold water 

6 qts. boiling water 

2 c. carrots 

2 c. cabbage 

2 celery roots 

4 bay leaves 



Vegetable Soup 



2 c. potatoes — cooked 

separately 
2 qts. tomatoes 
I tsp. pepper 
juice 2 onions 
4 tbsp. chopped parsley 
4 tbsp. salt 



302 



LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 

6 qts. beef stock 

^ lb. noodles 

I c. rice or barley 



Noodle Soup 



Ingredients : 

6 qts. beef stock 
4 tbsp. salt 

Ingredients : 

I knuckle of veal 
6 qts. cold water 
I bunch of herbs 

3 tbsp. parsley 

4 qts. milk 



6 qts. boiling water 
Macaroni Soup 



Rice Soup 



Meats 



Mutton Stew 

Ingredients : 

ID lbs. shoulder of mutton 
6 qts. boiling water 

2 onions 

3 c. turnips 
3 c. carrots 

2 qts. boiling water 

I c. butter 



Ingredients : 

13 lbs. chuck 

8 qts. boiling water 

6 c. turnips 

6 c. carrots 

2 qts. boiling water 



Beef Stew 



I tsp. cayenne 
4 tbsp. parsley 
4 tbsp. salt 



f lb. macaroni 

6 qts. boiling water 



lb. 



rice 



2^ qts. boiling water 
4 tbsp. salt 
juice 2 onions 
I tsp. pepper 



4 c. flour 
4 tsp. salt 
I tsp. pepper 
^ c. chopped parsley 
3 lbs. potatoes - 
cooked separately 



2 tbsp. salt 
^ c. beef drippings 
2 onions 

7^ lbs. potatoes 
cooked separately 



I tsp. pepper 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



303 



Scotch Stew 

Ingredients : 

8 lbs. mutton from neck 
8 qts. boiling water 
I lb. barley 
I c. carrots 
I c. turnips 

1 c. celery 

Scalloped Meat 

Ingredients: 

2\ lbs. cooked meat ground 
juice 2 onions 
\ c. parsley 

2 c. bread crumbs 

2 tsp. salt 

\ tsp. pepper 



I c. onion 

1 c. flour 

\ c. drippings 

2 tbsp. salt 

I tsp. pepper 
4 tbsp. parsley 



6 lbs. raw potatoes — 

cooked and mashed 
\ c. butter 
f qt. milk 
I tbsp. salt 



Ingredients : 



Gravy 



\ c. drippings 
I c. flour 




\\ qts. stock 
I tsp. salt 


Ingredients : 


Veal Loaf 




12 lbs. veal 

2 lbs. salt pork 

3 tbsp. salt 

I tsp. pepper 


Meat Substitutes 


6 eggs 

i c. melted butter 
3 c. crumbs 
milk to moisten 


Ingredients : 

3 qts. pea beans 
2 lbs. salt pork 

4 tbsp. salt 

I tbsp. mustard 


Baked Beans 


I c. molasses 

1 tsp. pepper 

2 onions 

4 tbsp. brown sugar 



304 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 

4 qts. medium white sauce 



Cream Toast 



toast 



Ingredients : 

2 doz. eggs 
I tbsp. salt 



German Toast 



toast 



§ c. sugar 
1 1 qts. milk 



Ingredients : 

50 hard-cooked eggs 
i^ c. minced ham 



Stuffed Eggs 



c. butter 



2^ tsp. salt 



3 tbsp. oil 
I tsp. cayenne 
i^ tsp. mustard 



Ingredients : 

2 lbs. macaroni 
\ c. salt 
cayenne 



Macaroni and Cheese 



2 qts. medium white 

sauce 
I lb. grated cheese 



Ingredients : 

6 c. rice 



Rice with Tomato Sauce 

boiling, salted water 



Tomato Sauce for Rice or Macaroni 

Ingredients : 

I No. 10 can tomatoes 2 c. flour 

^ c. sugar 2 qts. soup stock or 

I tbsp. salt water 



3 bay leaves 
2 c. fat 



I tsp. peppercorns 
^ tsp. cloves 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



305 



Ingredients : 



I qt, rice 
\ c. salt 
7 qts. water 



Creamed Rice 



I qt. milk 
3 tbsp. sugar 
eggs 



\ doz. 



Ingredients : 
I qt 



rice 
3 tbsp. salt 
I c. milk 



Rice Croquettes 



parsley 



I c. butter 
6 eggs 
cayenne 



Ingredients : 

3 lbs. codfish 



Fish 
Creamed Codfish 

4 qts. medium white sauce 
4 qts. cold water 



Ingredients : 

4 qts. cold flaked fish 
I qt. buttered crumbs 



Scalloped Fish 



3 qts. medium white sauce 
I onion and 6 bay leaves 
scalded in the milk 



Ingredients : 

5 cans salmon 
f c. butter 
I c. flour 
5 c. milk 



6 eggs 



Salmon Cutlets 



For dipping 



5 tsp. salt 
I tsp. cayenne 
5 tbsp. parsley 
juice 2 lemons 



sifted crumbs 



6 tbsp. water 



3o6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 

lo shad 



Baked Shad with Tomato Sauce 



f lb. salt pork 
i lb. butter 



Ingredients : 

4 qts. tomatoes 
4 bay leaves 
I onion 

Ingredients : 

i\ lbs. codfish 
6 lbs. potatoes 
h c. butter 



Sauce 



2 tsp. salt 
i§ tsp. pepper 
I c. flour 



4 tsp. salt 
\ c. butter 
I c. flour 



Codfish Balls 



4 eggs 

\ tsp. cayenne 

salt if needed 



Ingredients: 

6 qts. oysters 

i^ c. oyster liquor 



Scalloped Oysters 



c. 



milk 



2 qts. buttered crumbs 

salt 

pepper 



Flour Mixtures 



Bread 



Ingredients : 

. 2\ qts. water 3 tbsp. salt 
lo tbsp. lard or butter 2^ yeast cakes 
2,\ tbsp. sugar 2 c. lukewarm water 
about 8 qts. flour 


Ingredients : 

6 c. scalded milk 


Graham Bread 

3 yeast cakes 


6 c. water 
4 tbsp. salt 
f c. butter 
i^ c. molasses 


3 c. warm water 
6 c. flour 

graham or entire wheat 
flour to knead 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



307 



Nut Bread 
3 qts. chopped nuts added after first rising 



Ingredients : 

i^ qts. milk 



Rolls 



J c. butter 



7 qts. flour 



2 tbsp. salt 
^ c. sugar 

i^ yeast cakes 

3 c. lukewarm water 



Ingredients : 

I qt. rye meal 
I qt. corn meal 
I qt. graham flour 



Ingredients : 

3 qts. flour 
2 tbsp. salt 



Steamed Brown Bread 



1 1 qts. sour milk 



1 1 tbsp. soda 

i§ tbsp. salt 

I c. and 3 tbsp. molasses 



Biscuits 



^ c. 



baking powder 



I qt. milk or more 
6 tbsp. butter 
6 tbsp. lard 



Ingredients : 

3 qts. flour 

8 tbsp. baking powder 

2 tbsp. salt 

4-5 c 
Roll out and spread with 
z c. butter 



Fruit Rolls 



4 c 



milk 



3 c. raisins 



sugar 
I c. butter or, 
f c. lard 



3 c. brown sugar 
2 tbsp. cinnamon 



Ingredients : 

2\ qts. flour 

6^ tbsp. baking powder 



Wheat Muffins 



tbsp. salt 



i\ qts. milk 



5 eggs 

f c. sugar 

10 tbsp. melted butter 



3o8 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Entire Wheat or Graham Muffins 

Ingredients : 

2 pts. white flour 5 eggs 

3 pts. graham flour ij qts. milk 

6 tbsp. baking powder lo tbsp. melted butter 

if tbsp. salt h c. sugar 



Ingredients : 

1^ qts. wheat flour 
i^ qts. corn meal 
8 tbsp. baking powder 
J c. sugar 



Corn Muffins 



I J tbsp. salt 

6 eggs 

i^ qts. milk 

I c. melted butter 



Ingredients : 

1 qt. molasses 

2 c. hot water 

I c. melted butter 
2^ qts. flour 



Cakes 
Ginger Cake 



4 tsp. soda 
4 tsp. ginger 
2 tsp. cinnamon 
2 tsp. salt 



Ingredients : 

2 lbs. butter 
4 lbs. siAgar 

3 doz. eggs 
I tbsp. salt 



Plain Cake 



7 qts. flour 

14 tbsp. baking powder 

2|-| qts. milk 

3 tbsp. vanilla 



Ingredients : 



2\ c. butter 
6f c. sugar 
3 c. milk 
iii c. flour 



White Cake 

4^ tbsp. baking powder 
f tsp. cream of tartar 
i^ tsp. salt 
2 tsp. almond extract 
whites of 28 eggs 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



309 



Ingredients : 

4 c. butter 
8 c. sugar 
16 eggs 



Spanish Cake 



I qt. milk 



14 c. flour 

8 tbsp. baking powder 

8 tsp. cinnamon 



Ingredients : 



\ 



20 eggs 
4 c. sugar 
4 c. flour 



Sponge Cake I 



4 tsp. baking powder 

I tsp. salt 

I tbsp. vanilla 



I 



Ingredients 



24 eggs 
4 c. sugar 
rind 2 lemons 



Sponge Cake II 



4 c. flour 

^ c. lemon juice 

I tsp. salt 



Ingredients : 

I c. butter 
3 c. sugar 
6 eggs 



Washington Cakes 



tbsp. salt 



sic 



flour 

2f tbsp. baking powder 
if c. milk 



Bake as cup cakes. Split, fill, and cover with whipped cream. 
The cream may be colored with currant jelly. 



Ingredients 



if c. sugar 
^ c. flour 

I tsp. salt 



Filling for Above 



3 c. milk 

4 eggs 



tbsp. vanilla 



3IO LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 

1 c. butter 

2 c. brown sugar 
2 eggs 

I c. molasses 
I tsp. vanilla 
if c. milk 



Spice Cookies 



2 qts. flour 

4 tsp. baking powder 
^ nutmeg, grated 

3 tbsp. cinnamon 
2 tsp. cloves 

I tsp. salt 



Doughnuts 



Ingredients : 

\ c. and 2 tbsp. butter 
i^ c. sugar 
6 eggs 



c. 



milk 
flour to roll 



2^ tbsp. baking powder 
I tsp. cinnamon 
^ tsp. nutmeg 
I tbsp. salt 
I tbsp. vanilla 



Salads 



Fruit 



Ingredients : 

6 heads lettuce 

2 doz. oranges 

2 cans Hawaiian pineapple 

I lb. malaga grapes 

X lb. candied cherries 



1 c. English walnut 
meats 

2 c. cubed celery 
6 bananas 

I qt. mayonnaise 



Mayonnaise Dressing 

Ingredients : 

4-6 yolks to i qt. oil 



Waldorf 



Ingredients : 

4 qts. apples 
2 qts. celery 



2 c. walnut meats 
I qt. mayonnaise 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



311 



Chicken 



Ingredients : 

5 qts. chicken (5 chickens) 
5 qts. celery 



I c. French dressing 
I qt. mayonnaise 



Tomato Jelly 

Ingredients : 

f c. gelatin 

I gal. tomatoes 

I onion 

2^ tbsp. salt 

2§ tbsp. powdered sugar 



I qt. cold water 

1 c. celery 

2 c. carrots 
I bay leaf 

12 peppercorns 



12 allspice berries 



Cheese Straws for Salads 



Ingredients : 

2 qts. grated cheese 
2 qts. crumbs 
5^ c. flour 
h c. butter 



2 tsp. salt 
I tsp. pepper 
I tsp. cayenne 
I c. milk 



Desserts 
Snow Pudding 



Ingredients : 

1 1 boxes granulated gelatin 

2 c. cold water 

2 qts. boiling water 



6§ c. sugar 

2 c. lemon juice 

10 whites of eggs 



Coffee Cream 



Ingredients : 

2 boxes granulated gelatin 
4 c. sugar 



2I c. cold water 
2 qts. strong coffee 



3^ qts. thin cream 



312 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 

lo yolks of eggs 
I tsp. salt 



Soft Custard 



it c. sugar 
2 1 qts. milk 



2 tsp. vanilla 



Ingredients : 

4 qts. milk 
1 6 eggs 



Cup Custard 



3 c. sugar 



2 tsp. salt 
4 tsp. vanilla 



Ingredients 



Chocolate Custard 



Above plus 8 oz. chocolate 



Ingredients : 

4 qts. milk 
4 oz. chocolate 
1 6 egg yolks 

1 6 egg whites 



Soft Chocolate Custard 



Meringue 



2 c. sugar 
2 tsp. salt 
4 tsp. vanilla 

2 c, powdered sugar 



Ingredients : 

8 qts. milk 

2 qts. water 

3 c. rice 



Rice Pudding 



3 c. sugar 
2 pkgs. raisins 
2 tsp. salt 



Scalloped Apples 

Ingredients : 

i6 qts. sliced apples 5 tsp. cinnamon 

5 qts. bread crumbs 5 c. sugar 

2 c. butter juice and rind 4 lemons 

I c. water 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



313 



Ingredients : 

30 large apples 
30 egg whites 



Apple Snow 



5 c. powdered sugar 
juice 5 lemons 



Ingredients : 

3 c. tapioca 
f pk. apples 



Apple Tapioca 



3 qts. boiling water 
2 c. sugar 



Chocolate Bread Pudding 

Ingredients : 

5 qts. milk 12 eggs 

2| qts. bread i tbsp. salt 

10 oz. chocolate 2 tbsp. vanilla 

3 c. sugar 



Ingredients : 

2 c. butter 

2 c. brown sugar 



Hard Sauce 



2 c. powdered sugar 
I tbsp. vanilla 



Ingredients : 

6 qts. milk 
i§ c. sugar 



Junket 



6 tablets dissolved in 4 tbsp. 
cold water 



2 tbsp. vanilla 



Ingredients : 

6 qts. milk 

2 c. sugar 

4 oz. chocolate 



Chocolate Junket 



I c. hot water 
6 tablets dissolved in 4 tbsp. 
cold water 



1 1 tbsp. vanilla 



314 



LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



I c. flour 

4I qts. bread crumbs 



Steamed Pudding 

Ingredients : 

I c. butter 
2§ c. sugar 

5 eggs 4 tbsp. baking powder 

i^ qts. milk i| tsp. salt 

juice and rind 2 lemons i qt. raisins 

1 1 nutmegs (grated) 



Ingredients : 

2\ qts. milk 

14 eggs 

2I qts. cream 

Ingredients : 

2 qts. milk 
12 yolks 



Frozen Desserts 
Chocolate Ice Cream 



5 c. sugar 

12 oz. chocolate 

4^ tbsp. vanilla 



Custard Ice Cream 



4 c. sugar 

4 tbsp. vanilla 



2 qts. cream 



Ingredients : 

3 lbs. sugar 



Strawberry Ice Cream 

3 qts. berries 
4I qts. cream 



Ingredients : 

5 qts. milk 
7 c. sugar 

Ingredients : 

5 qts. water 
rind of 6 oranges 
I qt. orange juice 



Milk Sherbet 



Orange Ice 



2 c. lemon juice 
rind of 3 lemons 



4 lbs. sugar 
rind of 6 lemons 
2 c. lemon juice 



INDEX 



Absorption of odors, 

exp>crimcnts, 88-89, 
Alkaloids, 2. 
Almonds, salted, 294. 
Apples, 16-17, 52, 53, 67, 74. ico- 

baked, 16. 

in bloom, 16. 

in sirup with oatmeal, 52. 

in sirup with rice, 52. 

p>otato, 67. 

scalloped, 74, 312. 

scalloped with cheese, icx). 

snow, 313. 

steamed, 16. 

stewed, 17. 

tapioca, 53, 313. 
Apple sauce, 16, 20, 296. 
Apricots, 19, 296. 

conserve, 41. 
Arrowroot gruel, 56. 
Ash constituents. See Food Values 
the general discussions of the 
fercnt foods. 
Asparagus, 58, 74. 

Bacon, 140. 
Bacteria, 26. 
Baking powder, 180. 
Bananas, baked, 17. 
Barley gruel, 56. 
Barley water, 10. 
Batters, 189-217. 
Bavarian creams, 150. 

coffee, 150. 

grape, 150. 

orange, 150. 
Beans, 71, loi. 

baked, 71, 77, 303. 

dried lima, 71. 



and 
dif- 



Bean loaf, loi. 
Beef. See also Meat. 

broth, 141. 

casserole, 143. 

cuts of, 1 27-1 28. 

fillet, broiled, 137. 

fillet of, 13s, 136. 

Hamburg steak, 138. 

juice, 141. 

pot roast, 140. 

stew, 141. 
Beets, buttered, 64. 
Beverages, i-io, 295-296. 

classification, 1. 

definition, i. 

experiments, 3-6. 

fruits suitable for, 24. 

methods of serving, 2. 

recip>es, 6-10. 

references, 10. 
Biscuits, 196-197, 307. 

bran, 197. 

cheese, 197. 

com meal, 197. 

emergency, 197. 

fruit, 197. 

general rules, 196. 

graham or entire wheat, 196. 

w'heat, 196. 
Biuret reaction for protein, 85. 
Bouillon, 132. 
Bread, 189-193, 306-307. 

Boston brown, 190, 307. 

brown, 190. 

gluten, 190. 

graham, 190, 191, 243, 306. 

Indian, 243. 

nut, 190, 191, 192, 307. 

sticks, 193. 



315 



3i6 



INDEX 



Bread, toast, cream, 304. 

toast, German, 304. 

wheat, 189, 306. 
Butter. See also Milk. 

experiments, 84. 
Buttermilk. See also Milk. 

experiments, 84-85. 

uses for, 243-247. 
Butters, 23. 

Cabbage, 65-66. 
buttered, 65. 
creamed, 66. 
with ham, 66. 
Caffeine, 2. 
Caffetannic acid, 3. 
Cake, 218-227, 308-309. 

apple, dried, 245. 

apple sauce, 222. 

chocolate, 220. 

cofifee, 222. 

date loaf, 221. 

fruit, 222, 245. 

general rules, 218. 

gingerbread with cheese, 103, 104. 

ginger cake, 223, 308. 

ginger cup, 224. 

Genoese, 227. 

ginger, hot water, 223. 

gold, 221. 

jelly roll, 226. 

Lady Baltimore, 220. 

mocha, 226. 

modifications, 219. 

orange loaf, 221. 

plain, 308. 

pound, 220. 

raspberry, canned, 223. 

Roxbury, 224. 

Spanish, 219, 309. 

spice, 246. 

sponge, 225, 309. 

sponge, drops, 225. 

sponge, for ornamenting, 226. 

sponge, hot water, 225. 

sponge, white, 226. 

sponge, with baking powder, 225. 

sponge, yellow, 224. 

standard, 219. 

Washington, and fiUing, 309. 

white, 219, 308. 



Cake, with butter, 218-224. 

without butter, 224-227. 
Candy, 286-294. 

butterscotch, 293. 

candied orange peel, 293. 

claire creams, 291. 

fluff, 292. 

fondant, 286-290. 

fudge, 290-291. 

general discussion, 284. 

glace for fruits and nuts, 293. 

honey pufTs, 292. 

molasses, 292. 

peanut brittle, 293. 

Turkish nougat, 292. 
Canning (and preserving), 22-46. 

definitions, S3- 

experiments, 26-33. 

fruits, for, 22. 
general directions, 34. 
references, 45-46. 
score cards, 45. 
vegetables for, 22. 
Caramel, 90. 
Carrots, 59, 60, 65. 
Cereals, 47-57, 297. 
consistency of, 48. 
cooking of, 48, 51. 
cream of wheat, 297. 
experiments, 49-51. 
general discussion, 47-48. 
general rules, 51. 
oatmeal, 297. 
purchasing, 48. 
reasons for cooking, 48. 
references, 56-57. 
rice, boiled, 297. 
rice, steamed, 297. 
serving, 48. 

tabular summary for cooking, 51. 
variations in serving, 48. 
with fruits, combinations of, 52. 
Charlottes, 151. 
caramel, 151. 
chocolate, 151. 
cofifee, 151. 
orange, 151. 
Russe, 151. 
strawberry, 151. 
Cheese, 95-105, 115, 120, 208. 
food values, 104-105. 



INDEX 



317 



Cheese, general discussion, 95-96. 
recipes, 96-104. 

apples scalloped with, 100. 

balls, 103. 

bean loaf, loi. 

cake, 99. 

corn, tomato and, 102. 

croquettes, 120. 

custard, 100. 

eggs with, 96. 

fondue, 97. 

gingcrl)rcad, 103, 104. 

Italian rice, 102. 

lima bean loaf, loi. 

loaf, loi. 

macaroni baked with, 208. 

nut loaf, loi. 

omelet, 98. 

red bunny, 99. 

rice, ItaUan, 102. 

soufll^, 115. 

souffle with pastry, 100. 

soup, vegetable and, 101. 

soup, 100. 

spinach loaf, 102. 

straws, 103, 311. 

tomato an<l corn, 102. 

Turkish pilaf, 102. 

Welsh rarel)it, 98, 99. 
Cherry and pineapple preserve, 42. 
Cherry conserve, 42. 
Chicken. 133, 154-157. 
a la King, 157. 
casserole, 156. 
creamed, 156. 
Creole, 157. 
fricassee, 155. 
fried, 155. 
gravy, 155. 
Maryland, 156. 
pie, 156. 
roast, 154. 
sauce, 156. 
soup, 133. 

stuffing for roast, 155. 
Chili sauce, 43. 
Chocolate, 8. 
Citric acid, 2. 
Clams, 166-167. 
broth, 167. 
chowder, 167. 



Clams, steamed, 166. 
Cocoa, 7, 295. 
Codfish, creamed, 162. 
Coffee, 7, 295. 
Comforts, 201. 
Conserves, 23, 41-42. 

apricot, 41. 

cherry, 42. 

grape, 42. 

plum, 42. 

rhubarb, 41. 
Consomm^, 132. 
Cookies, 209-215. 

Boston, 211. 

Brownies, chocolate, 215. 

chocolate, 214. 

chocolate chips, 215. 

chocolate wafers, 210. 

classification, 209-210. 

fairy gingerbread, 215. 

general rules, 210. 

ginger snaps, 213. 

hermits, 214. 

Margarets, 211. 

meringues, 212. 

meringues, date, 212. 

molasses, 213, 246, 247. 

molasses drop, 212. 

nut, 215. 

oatmeal, 211. 

orange circles, 213. 

f)canut, 212. 

sponge drops, 213. 

sugar, 214, 246. 

thin, 214. 

vanilla, 214. 
Corn meal gruel, 56. 
Corn pudding, 65. 
Cornstarch pudding, 53. 
Cottage cheese, 87. 
Crabapples, baked, 17. 
Crabs, 170-17 1. 

devilled, 170. 

soft-shelled, 171. 
Cranberry, 

jelly, 18, 296. 

sauce, 18, 297. 

spiced, 18. 
Cream, 

experiments, 83-84. 

uses for sour, 244, 246, 247. 



3i8 



INDEX 



Creamed vegetables, 73, 298. 
Cream filling for eclairs, 207. 
Cream of wheat, 297. 
Cream puffs, 206, 207. 
Cream soups, 74-75, 300. 

asparagus, 74. 

celery, 75, 300. 

chicken, 75. 

string bean, 75. 

tomato, 75, 300. 
Croquettes, 118-121. 

beef and rice, 121. 

cheese, 120. 

chicken, 120. 

crumbs for, 118. 

eggs for, 118. 

fats for frying, 119. 

nut and raisin, 120. 

potato, 119. 

recipes, 11 9-1 21. 

rice, 119. 

score card, 121. 

veal or lamb, 121. 
Crumbs for scalloped dishes, 73. 
Cucumber pickles, 44. 
Custard, 89-91, 100, 312. 

baked, 90, 312. 

caramel, 90. 

cheese, 100. 

chocolate, 91, 312. 

floating island, 91. 

general rules, 89. 

rice or tapioca, 91. 

soft, 89, 312. 

steamed, 90. 

tapioca or rice, 91. 

Dates, oatmeal with, 52. 

Desserts, 53-55, 31 1-3 14. See also under 

the name of each. 
Doughnuts, 201, 247, 310. 
Doughs, 189-217. 
Drying, fruits for, 24. 

Eclairs, 207. 

Eggs, 96, 107-113, 237. 

experiments, 107-109. 

food value, 113. 

general discussion, 107. 

preserving, 107, 112. 

recipes, 109- 112, 237. 



Eggs, recipes, a la goldenrod, 112. 

coddled, no. 

foamy omelet, in. 

French omelet. III. 

hard-cooked, 109. 

in-nest, in. 

omelets, no. 

poached, no. 

scrambled, no. 

scrambled with tomato sauce, 112. 

shirred or baked, no. 

soft-cooked, 109. 

stuffed, 304. 

with cheese, 96. 

with grape juice, g. 

references, 122. 
Egg plant, 71. 
Escalloped. See Scalloped. 
Experiments, 3-6, 13-1S, 26-33, 49-51, 
60-64, 83-89, 107-109, 116-118, 
125-126, 147-148, 172-179, 180- 
185, 260-261, 270-271, 285-286. 
See also under the different foods. 

Farinaceous desserts, 53-55, 312-313. 

apple tapioca, 53, 313. 

baked Indian, 54. 

coffee sago, 54. 

cornstarch pudding, 53. 

orange, 55. 

rice, 55, 312. 

shredded wheat, 55. 
Fat, experiments with deep fat frying, 
1 16-118. 

See also Food Values and the general 
discussions of the individual 
foods. 
Fehling-Benedict solution, 13. 
Fifty servings, recipes for, 

beverages, 295-296. 

breads, 306-307. 

cakes, 308-309. 

cereals, 297. 

cheese straws, 3x1. 

cookies, 310. 

desserts, 311-314. 

doughnuts, 310. 

fish, 305-306. 

frozen desserts, 314. 

fruits, 296-297. 

mayonnaise dressing, 310. 



INDEX 



319 



Fifty servings, recipes for, meats, 302-303 
meat substitutes, 303-305- 
muffins, 307-308. 
oysters, scalloped, 306. 
salads, 310-311- 
soups, 300-302. 
vegetables, 298-299. 
Fillings for cake, 220, 223, 233-234. 
chocolate, 223, 233. 
cream, 233. 
fig and fruit, 234- 
Lady Baltimore, 220. 
lemon, 233. 
orange, 233. 
Fish, 158-165, 171. 305-306. 
baked, stufTcd, 160, 306. 
boiled, 160. 
boning, 159- 
broilcd, 160. 
chowder, 162. 
cleaning, 159- 

codfish l)alls, 306. 

cooking, 159. 161. 

crcametl cod, 305. 

food value, 165. 

general discussion, 158-159- 

recipes, 160-162, 305-306. Sec also 
under name of each dish. 

references, 171. 

salmon cutlets, 305. 

sauces, 159, 163-164. 

scalloped, 162, 305. 

steamed, 160. 

stuffing for, 160. 

vegetables suitable for serving with, 

159- 
Fish balls, 161. 
Flounder, turbans of, 161. 
Flour mixtures, 172-247, 266-267. 
classification, 185-187. 
experiments, 172-185. 
food values, 198, 205, 217, 229, 230. 
general discussion, 172. 
oven temperatures, 187. 
pastry, 234-242. 

recipes, 189-195, 196-204, 206-215, 
218-227, 235-240, 243-247, 266- 
267. 
references, 187-188. 
score cards, 195, 196, i97> 205, 216, 
227, 228, 241, 242. 



Flour mixtures, steamed, 266-267. 
using sour milk, buttermilk, sour 
cream, 243-247. 
Food values, 20, 77-79, 92, 104-105. 113, 
165, 198, 205, 217, 229-230, 259, 
263-264, 283. 
apple sauce, 20. 
beans, baked, 77. 
biscuits, 198. 
boiled dressing, 264. 
cake, chocolate, 229. 
cake, sponge, 230. 
creamed codfish on toast, 165. 
cream soups, 78-79- 
custard, baked, 92. 
egg, scrambled, 113. 
French dressing, 264. 
gingerbread, 229. 
hermits, 217. 
ice cream, 283. 
macaroni and cheese, 104. 
mayonnaise dressing, 263. 
molasses cookies, 217. 
muffins. 205. 
potatoes, creamed, 78. 
prunes, stewed, 20. 
rice pudding with eggs, 92- 
rice with cheese and tomatoes, 105. 
salads, 259. 
sandwich, 259. 
sherliet, milk, 283. 
Fritters, 200-201. 
Frostings, 226, 227, 230-232. 
caramel, 231. 
chocolate, 230, 231, 232. 
cocoa, 232. 
coffee, 232. 
confectioners', 231. 
cooked, 230-231. 
fudge, 231. 
glaze, 227. 
maple, 231.. 
mocha, 232. 

mocha for sponge cake, 226. 
orange, 232. 
White Mountain, 230. 
Frozen mixtures, 269-283. 
binders, 272. 
classification, 273. 
experiments, 270-271. 
fillers, 272. 



320 



INDEX 



Frozen mixtures, food values, 283. 

general discussion, 269-270, 

ice cream powders, 272. 

recipes, 274-281. 

references, 283. 

score cards, 282. 
Fruits, I, 1 1-2 1, 52, 296, 297. 

acids of, 2. 

apple sauce, 296. 

apricots stewed, 296. 

chemical composition, 11. 

combinations of, with cereals, 52, 
297. 

cooking, reasons for, 1 2. 

cranberry jelly, 296. 

dietetic value, 1 1 . 

dried, general rules, 18. 

experiments, 13-15. 

food values, 20. 

general classes, 11, 22-24. 

general rules for preparation, 12. 

preservation, 22, 25, S3- See also 
Canning. 

purchasing, 12. 

recipes, 16-19. 

references, 20-21. 

rhubarb, baked, 296. 

score cards for preserved fruits, 
45- 

Gelatin, 124, 146-151. 

as pMTotein food, 124. 

culture media, 28. 

experiments, 147-148. 

general discussion, 146-147. 

recipes, 148-151. 

score cards, 151. 
Gingerbread, 103, 104, 223, 247. 
Grape, conserve, 42. 

juice, I, 9, 38. 

spiced, 40. 
Grapefruit marmalade, 39. See also 

Fruits. 
Gravy, 136, 155. 
Griddlecakes, 198-199. 

corn meal, 199. 

general rules, 199. 

sour milk, 198. 

sweet milk, 198. 

wheat, 198. 
Gruels, 56. 



Haddock, planked, 161. 
Hash, browned, 142. 
Honey (so called), 23. 

Ice creams, 274-276, 280. 

baked Alaska, 280. 

caramel, 275. 

chocolate, 276, 314. 

coffee, 276. 

frozen custard, 274-275, 314. 

lacto, 276. 

molds, 280. 

prune, 275. 

strawberry, 274, 314. 

vanilla, 274. 
Ices, 277-279. 

apricot, 278. 

currant, 278. 

currant and raspberry, 278. 

ginger, 279. 

grape juice, 278. 

lemon, 277. 

mint, 279. 

orange, 277. 

peach, 278. 

pineapple, 278. 

raspberry, 278. 

strawberry, 278. 
Iodine test for starch, 13. 

Jam, 23. 

Jellies with gelatin, 148-149. 

coffee, 149. 

fruit, 149. 

lemon, 149. 

orange, 149. 

prune, 149. 

wine, 149. 
Jelly making, 14, 18, 23, 32, 35-36, 

39- 
Junket, 86, 313. 

Lamb. See Meat. 

Lamb chops, 137. 

Lead acetate solution, 3. 

Leavens — Leavening agents, 179. 

Lemonade, i, 9, 295. 

Lemon whey, 8. 

Lobster, 169-170. 

general directions, 169. 

Newburg, 170. 



INDEX 



321 



Macaroni, 207-209, 304. 

I)akc(l with cheese, 208, 304. 

boiled, 207. 

cheese and tomato sauce, 200. 

Italian style, 208. 
Macaroons, 150. 
Malic acid, 2. 
Marmalades, 33, 39. 

grapefruit, 39. 

yellow tomato, 39. 
Meat, 123-152, 302, 303. 

beef, 135-143- 

broiling, 137. 

cakes, 142. 

casserole, 143. 

cuts of beef, 127-128. 

cuts of lamb, 130. 

cuts of mutton, 130. 

cuts of pork, 131. 

cuts of veal, 1 29. 

experiments, 125-126. 

general discussion, 123-124. 

hash, browned, 142. 

lamb chops, 137. 

left-over, 142-144. 

mutton chops, broiling, 137. 

recipes, 135-144. 

references, 1 51-15 2. 

roasting, 135. 

rules for tender cuts, 135-140. 

rules for tough cuts, 140-144. 

sauces, 144-146. 

score card, 146. 

table for roasting, 135. 

veal casserole, 143. 
Meringues, 212. 
Microorganisms, 25. 
Milk, 82-94. 

experiments, 83-89. 

food values, 92. 

general discussion, 82-83. 

recip>es, 89-92. 

references, 93-94. 

sour, recipes using, 243-247. 
Millon test for protein, 13. 
Mineral matter. See Food Values and 
the general discussions of the dif- 
ferent foods. 
Molds, 25-26. 
Mousses, 280-281. 

chocolate, 281. 



Mousses, coffee, 280. 

fruit, 281. 

grape juice, 281. 

strawberry, 28 1. 
Mufllns, Berkshire, 203. 

blueberry, 204. 

bran, 203. 

bran with com, 303. 

corn meal, 202, 244, 307. 

entire wheat, 202. 

for fifty servings, 307, 308. 

general rules, 202. 

graham, 202, 308. 

hominy, 203. 

one egg, 202. 

rice, 203. 

southern jxine, 204. 

southern spoon corn bread, 204. 

wheat, 202, 307. 
Mutton. See Meat. 
Mutton chops, 137. 

Noodles, 208. 

Nutritive value of cooked foods, 19. 
See also Food V^alues. 

Oatmeal, 297. 

apples in sirup with, 52. 

gruel, 56. 

water, 9. 

with dates, 52. 
Oils, experiments, 260-261. 
Olives, 159, 256-257. 
Omelets, iio-iii, 98. 

cheese, 98. 

foamy, in. 

French, in. 
Onions, 59. 
Orangeade, x. 

Oven temperature, 175, 187. 
Oysters, 168-169. 

broth, 168. 

cocktail, 168. 

fricassee, 169. 

fried, 168. 

' ' pigs-in -blankets, ' ' 1 69 . 

stew, 168. 

Pan-broiling, 137, 138. 
Parfaits, 281. 



322 



INDEX 



Parfaits, golden, 281, 

silver, 281. 
Parsnips, 68. 
Pastes, flour, 207-208. 

plain, 235. 

puff, 235. 
Pastry, 235-240. 

Banbury filling, 237. 

Banbury tarts, 236. 

cheese straws, 236. 

meringue, 237. 

patties, 236. 

tarts and turnovers, 240. 
Peaches, 37. 
Pears, 17, 40. 
Peas, 65. 
Pectin, 12, 14. 
Peppers, 

pickled, 44. 

stuffed, 69, 299. 
Pickles, 43-44. 

cucumber, 44. 

mustard, 43. 

red pepper, 44. 

sweet, 43. 

tomato, 44. 
Pickling, 24, 43-44- 

fruits suitable for, 24. 

recipes, 43-44- 

vegetables suitable for, 24. 
Pie, 237-240. 

apple, 239. 

chocolate, 237. 

coconut, 237. 

cream, 237. 

custard 238. 

green tomato mince, 240. 

lemon, 237. 

mince, 239. 

mock cherry, 238. 

pumpkin, 238. 

sour cream, 238. 
Popovers, 206. 
Pork. See Meat. 
Potassium acid tartrate, 2. 
Potato, 66-68, 298. 

apples, 67. 

mashed, 298. 

puff, 67. 

souffle, 67. 

stuffed, baked, 66. 



Potato, sweet, glazed, 68. 

sweet, puff, 67. 
Poultry, 153-157. See also Chicken. 

boning, 154. 

cleaning and dressing, 153-154. 

general discussion, 153. 

recipes, 154-157. 

trussing, 154. • 

Preserves, 22-46. 

definition, 33. 

experiments, 26-33. 

fruits, suitable for, 22, 

general directions for, 34. 

recipes, 39-42. 

references, 45-46. 

score card, 45. 

utensils necessary for, S3- 
Preserving, 22-46. See also Canning. 
Protein. See Experiments, Food Values, 
and the general discussions of the 
different foods. 
Prunes, stewed, 296. 

Puddings, 53-5S, 65, 91-92, 244, 266- 
267, 279-280, 31 1-3 14. 

apple tapioca, 53, 3i3- 

baked Indian, 54. 

bread, 91. 

chocolate bread, 92, 313. 

chocolate custard, 312. 

coffee cream, 311. 

coffee sago, 54. 

corn, 65, 299. 

cornstarch, 53. 

cup custard, 312. 

date, 266. 

fig, 267. 

frozen, 279. 

fruit, 267. 

graham, 244. 

hard sauce, 313. 

Hunter's, 267. 

junket, 313. 

junket, chocolate, 313. 

meringue, 313. 

Nesselrode, 279. 

Nesselrode, sauce for, 280, 

orange, 55. 

plum, 244, 267. 

queen of, 92. 

rice, 91, 312. 

shredded wheat, 55. 



INDEX 



323 



Puddings, snow. 150, 311- 

snow balls, 267. 

soft chocolate custard, 312. 

soft custard, 312. 

steamed, 314- 

steamed Indian, 266. 

tapioca, 91. 
Puddinfi sauces, 268-269, 274, 280. 

classification, 268. 

chocolate, 274. 

cream, 269. 

hard, 268. 

lemon, 268. 

Nesselrode pudding, 280. 

Sabayon, 269. 

sterling, 268. 

vanilla, 269. 
Punch, fruit. 296. 
Purees, 76-77. 

black bean, 77. 

com, 75, 76. 

pea, 76. 

potato, 76. 

Quinces, baked, 17. 

Rarebit, Welsh, 98, 99- 
Raspberry vinegar, 38. 
References, 10, 2<>-2i, 45-46, 56-57. 80- 
81, 93-94, 105-106, 122, 151-152, 
171, 187-188, 264-265, 283, 294. 
beverages, 10. 
butter, 94. 

canning and preserving, 45-46- 
cereals, 56-57- 
cheese, 105-106. 
eggs, 122. 

fish and shellfish, 171- 
fiour and bread, 187-188. 
fruits, 20-21. 
ice cream, 283. 
meat, 1 51-152. 
milk, 93-94- 
oils, 264-265. 
soups, 81. 
sugar, 294. 
vegetables, 80. 
Rhubarb, baked, 296. 
Rice, 47-52, 55, 91-92, 105, 143. 297- 
experiments, 49. 
creamed, 305. 



Rice, in sirup with apples, 52. 

methods of preparation, 51, 52, 91, 92, 
143, 297, 302, 304, 305- 

with cheese and tomatoes, 105. 
Roasting, 135. 
Rolls, 192-195, 307- 

Dorcas, 192. 

glaze for, 195. 

hot cross buns, 194. 

luncheon, 194. 

Parker House, 192. 

Swedish. 193- 
Royal scallop, i44- 

Salads, 248-255, 261-263, 310-311. 
accessories served with, 251. 
combinations, 252, 253. 254. 
dressings, 249, 261-263. 
food value, 259. 
foundation, 248-249. 
general discussion, 248. 
greens, 248, 251. 
variations in dressing. 249-250. 
when served, 250-251. 
Salad dressings, 261-263. 
boiled, 262. 
cream, 262. 
French, 261, 262. 
mayonnaise, 263. 
Spanish, 262. 
Salmon. See Fish. 
Sandwiches, 255-259. 

conveyor of filling, 255-256. 
fancy, 258. 
fillings, 256-257. 
food value, 259. 
general rules, 255. 
Sauce, 144-146, 163-164, 268-269, 274, 
280, 304. 
Bechamel, 163. 
brown, 144- 
brown mushroom, i45- 
chocolate, 274. 
classification, 268. 
cream, 269. 
Cuban, i45- 
drawn butter, 163. 
egg, 163. 
hard, 268. 
HoUandaise, 164. 
horseradish, 146. 



324 



INDEX 



Sauce, lemon, 268. 

Maitre d'Hotel butter, 164. 

mock HoUandaise, 164 

mushroom, 145. 

Nesselrode, 280. 

tartare, 164. 

tomato, for rice or macaroni, 304. 

Sabayon, 269. 

Spanish, 146. 

sterling, 268. 

vanilla, 269. 
Scalloped dishes, 73-74. i44. 303- 

apples, 74. 

crumbs for, 73. 

general rules, 73. 

meat, 303- 

oysters, 306. 

royal, 144. 

tomatoes, 74. 

vegetables, 73- 
Score cards, 45, 121, 146, 151, 195-197, 
205, 216, 227-228, 241-242, 282. 

biscuits, 196, 197. 
• bread, 195. 

canned fruits, 45. 

cookies, 216. 

croquettes, 121. 

custard ice cream, 2S2. 

gelatin desserts, 151. 

layer cake, 228. 

loaf cake, 227. 

meat roast, 146. 

muffins, 205. 

Philadelphia ice cream, 282. 

pies, 241, 242. 

preserves, 45. 

sherbets and ices, 282. 

sponge cake, 228. 
Shad roe, 161. 
Shellfish, 1 65-171. 
Sherbets, 276-277. 

combination, 277. 

milk, 276. 

orange, 277. 

pineapple, 277. 
Smelts, 161. 
Soda (sodium bicarbonate), 86, 180, 

181. 
SouiHes, 67, 69, 100, 1 1 3-1 1 5. 

cheese, 115. 

cheese, corn and, 115. 



Souffles, cheese, with pastry, 100. 

custard, 114. 

essentials for, 113. 

fruit, 114. 

lamb, 144. 

lemon, 114. 

meat, 115. 

potato, 67. 

squash, 69. 

varieties, 114. 

vegetable, 115. 
Soups, loo-ioi, 132-134. {See also 
Cream, and Purees.) 

brown stock, 133, 300. 

chicken, 133. 

cream of celery, 75, 300. 

cream of corn, 300. 

cream of potato, 300. 

cream of tomato, 75, 300. 

Creole, 134, 301. 

general discussion, 132. 

macaroni, 302. 

meat left from, 132-133- 

milk and cheese, 100. 

Mongole, 134, 301. 

noodle, 302. 

rice, 302. 

stock classification, 132. 

to clear stock, 133. 

uses for stock, 132. 

vegetable, 134, 30i- 

vegetable and cheese, loi. 
Spaghetti, 207, 209. 

boiled, 207. 

loaf, 209. 
Spanish cream, 150. 

macaroon, 150. 

plain, 150. 
Spinach. See Vegetables. 
Sponges, gelatin, 149. 

chocolate, 149. 

pineapple, 149. 
Squash, 69-70. 

baked summer, 70. 

souffle, 69. 

winter, 69. 
Starch. See Experiments, 
Steak, stuffed flank, 144. 
Stuffing, 

for chicken, 155. 

for fish, 160. 



INDEX 



325 



StuflBng, for flank steak, 136. 
Sugar, ^4, 2S5-290. 

canning with, 34. 

canning without, 34. 

experiments, 285-286. 

fondant, 286-287. 

uses, 287-290. 

Sweetbreads, 139, 140. 

broiled, 139. 

creamed, 140. 
Sweet potatoes, 67, 68, 299. 

Tannin, 3. 

Tartrate, potassium acid, 2. 

Tea, 1-4, 6-7, 295. ' 

experiments, 3-4. 

recipes, 6-7, 295. 
Temperatures. See Experiments, 

Oven Temperature. 
Theine, 2. 
Theobromine, 2. 
Timbale cases, 199-200. 
Tomatoes, 37, 38, 44, 74, 299. 

canned, 37. 

marmalade, 39. 

pickled, 44. 

scalloped, 74. 

stewed, 299. 

\'eal. Set- Meat. 
Veal en Casserole, 143. 



and 



Veal loaf, 303. 

Vegetables, 22, 24, 58-73, loi, 159, 298, 
299. 

classification, 58-59. 

creamed, 73. 

en Casserole, 70. 

experiments, 60-64. 

general discussion, 58. 

general rules for cooking, 60. 

methods of preser\'ation, 22. 

F>oints to emphasize, 59. 

reasons for cooking, 59. 

scalloped, 73. 

suitable for canning, 24. 

suitable for pickling, 24. 

suitable with fish, 1 59. 

ways of serving, 60. 
Volatile oils, 3. 

Waffles, 198-199. 

corn meal, 199. 

general rules, 199. 

sour milk, 198. 

sweet milk, 198. 

wheat, 198. 
Welsh rarebit, 98, 99. 
Whey, lemon, 8. 

Xanthoproteic reaction for proteins, 85. 

Yeasts, 26. 



Printed in the United States of America. 



'T'HE following pages contain advertisements of a 
few of the Macmillan books on kindred subjects 



A Laboratory Hand-book for Dietetics 

By MARY SWARTZ ROSE, Ph.D. 

Assistant Professor, Department of Nutrition, Teachers College, Columbia University 

Cloth, Svo, $/./( 

InvestiRations into the quantitative requirements of the human body have progressed s 
far as to make dietetics to a certain extent an exact science, and to emphasize the important 
of a quantitative study of food materials. This little book explains the problems involved i 
the calculation of food values and food requirements, and the construction of dietaries, an 
furnishes reference tables which will minimize the labor involved in such work without lim'itin 
dietary study to a few food materials 

Only brief statements of the conditions affecting food requirements have been made, ih 
reader being referred to general textbooks on the subject of nutrition for fuller informatior 
but such data have been included as seem most useful in determining the amount of food fc 
any normai individual under varying conditions of age and activity. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Part I 

Food Values and Food Requirements. 

The Composition of Food Materiai.s. 
Thb Functions of Food. 

Food as a Source of F.nergy. 

Food as Building Material. 

Food in the Regulation of Body Processes. 
Food Rf.quirkmknt. 

The Energy Kecjuirement of Normal Adults. 

The Kncrgy Requirement of Children. 

The F.nergy kc(|uiremeni of the Aged. 

The Protein Requirement. 

The Fat and Carbohydrate Requirement. 

The Ash Re«juircment. 

Part II 
Problems in Dietary Calculations- 
Studies in Weight, Measure, and Cost of Some Common Food Materials. 
Relation between Percentage Composition and Weight. 
Calulalion of the Fuel Value of a Single Food Material, 
("alrulation of the Weight of a .Standard or loo-Calorie Portion. 
YocA Value of a Combination of Fcx>d Materials. 

Distribution of Foodstuffs in a Standard Portion of a Single Food Material. 
Calcul.«tion of a Standard Portion of a Combination of Food Materials. 
Analysis of .■» Recipe. 

^f . I..-, ■•• ,n of Cow's Milk to a Required Formula. 
( of the Perccntaijc Comi>osition of a Food Mixture. 

I I i itiou of a Complete Dietary. 

Scoruig of the Dietary. 

Reference Tables. 

Refuse in Food Materials. 

Conversion Tables — Grams to Ounces. * 

Conversion Tables — Ounces to Grams. 

Conversion Tables— Pounds to Grams. 

Food Values in Terms of Standard Units of Weight. 

Ash Constituents in Percentages of the fcxlible Portion. 

Ash Constituents in Standard or loo-Caloric Portions. 

Appendix 
The Equipment of a Dietetics Laboratory. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York 



Food Products 



By henry C. SHERMAN 
Professor of Food Chemistry in Columbia University 

Illust7'aied^ cloth, i2mo, 59^ pages, $2.2J 

A comprehensive, descriptive text-book on the gen- 
eral subject of foods. The first and second chapters 
deal with the principal constituents and functions of 
food and with food legislation ; then follow chapters 
on: Milk; Cheese and Other Milk Products; Eggs, 
Meats and Meat Products ; Poultry, Fish and Shell- 
fish ; Grain Products ; Vegetables, Fruits and Nuts ; 
Edible Fats and Oils ; Sugar, Molasses, Sirups and 
Confectionery ; and Food Adjuncts. The plan of 
the book makes it easy for the teacher to follow a 
different order of topics if desired. 



" Admirable." — Scicjice. 

" A really excellent text-book." 

— Educational Review. 

" A valuable contribution to the literature of foods 
as well as a scientific presentation of many new facts 
regarding food values." — Insitrance. 

" A scientific study of great value." 

— New York Times. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York 



By henry C. SHERiMAN, Ph.D. 

Professor in Columbia University 

Chemistry of Food and Nutrition 

Cloth, i2mo, viii + 3S5 pages, $i.jo 

The purpose of this voUime is to present the principles of 
the chemistry of food and nutrition with special reference to 
the food requirements of man and the considerations which 
should underlie our judgment of the nutritive values of food. 
The food is here considered chiefly in its nutritive relations. 
It is hoped that the more detailed description of individual 
foods and the chemical and legal control of the food indus- 
try may be treated in a companion volume later. 

The present work is the outgrowth of several years* experi- 
ence in teaching the subject to collegiate and technical 
students who have represented a considerable diversity of 
previous training and points of view, and, while published 
primarily to meet the needs of the author's classes, it is 
hoped that it may also be of service to students and teachers 
elsewhere and to general readers whose main interest may 
lie in other fields, but who appreciate the importance of food 
and nutrition as factors in hygiene and preventive medicine. 

While neither the size nor the purpose of this book would 
permit an historical or technically critical treatment, a limited 
number of historical investigations and controverted views 
have been mentioned in order to give an idea of the nature 
and validity of the evidence on which our present beliefs 
are based, and in some cases to put the reader on his guard 
against theories which, while now outgrown, are still some- 
times encountered. 

PUBLISHED BY 

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

64-66 Fifth Avenue, New York 



Household Bacteriology 

BY 

ESTELLE D. BUCHANAN, M.S. 

Recently Assistant Professor of Botany, Iowa State College 

AND 

ROBERT EARLE BUCHANAN, Ph.D. 

Professor of Bacteriology, Iowa State College, and Bacteriologist of the 
Iowa Agricultural Experiment Station 

Cloth, 8vo, XV + 536 pp., index, $2.25 

The word Household is used as an extension rather than a limitation of the 
title. In a thoroughly scientific manner the authors treat the subject-matter 
of general as well as of household bacteriology and include, therefore, the 
true bacteria as well as the yeasts, molds, and protozoa. The volume is, 
therefore, a general textbook of micro-biology in which special attention is 
given to those problems which are of particular interest to the student of 
household science. The main divisions of the book treat (i) the micro- 
organisms themselves, (2) fermentations with special reference to those 
affecting foods, (3) the relations of bacteria and other micro-organisms to 
health. A fully illustrated key (comprising 37 pages) to the families and 
genera of common molds supplements the unusually extended discussion of 
the morphology and classification of yeasts and molds, and makes possible 
the satisfactory identification of all forms ordinarily encountered by the 
student. The work embodies the results of the most recent researches. The 
book is exceptionally well written, the different topics are treated con- 
sistently and with a good sense of proportion. While concise in statement, it 
is thorough in method and scope. It is, therefore, well adapted for use as a 
text not ox\\y for students of household science, but also for those to whom it is 
desired to present the science of bacteriology from an economic and sanitary 
rather than from a strictly medical point ofvieiv. 

"The book is a concisely written work on micro-biology, a branch of 
economic science that the public is beginning gradually to understand, has 
important relationship to the total welfare and prosperity of the community. 
. . . The manual can be recommended as a very good elementary bacteri- 
ology. It comprises aljout all there is of practical domestic value." 

— Boston Advertiser, 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York 



Textiles 

A Handbook for the Student and the Consumer 



BY 



MARY SCHENCK WOOLMAN, B.S. 

President of the Women's Educational and Industrial Union, Boston, acting head 

of the Department of Household Economics, Simmons College, recently 

Professor of Domestic Art in Teachers College 



AND 



ELLEN BEERS McGOWAN, B.S. 

Instructor in Household Arts in Teachers College, Columbia University 
Illustrated, Cloth, i27no, xi\42S pp.. Index, Bibliography, $2.00 

This book is the result of twenty years' experience in teaching textiles to 
college students. It is intended as a textbook for college classes or for study 
clubs and as a guide for the housekeeper or individual consumer of textiles 
and clothing, the teacher, the club woman, the saleswoman, and as an intro- 
ductory survey of the subject for the student who contemplates professional 
work in the textile industries. 

The growing emphasis upon textile study in college departments of home 
economics or househoUl arts, and the increasing use of the textile industry as 
teaching material in other departments and other grades of schools, shows a 
recognition of the part that the textiles are playing in the development of 
civilization and in our everyday life. Interest in the subject is still further 
accentuated by the movements now on foot to regulate the social-economic 
conditions in the textile and clothing industries and to secure standardization 
and honest labeling of textile products, as is being done for food products by 
the " pure food laws." 

To meet the existing need the authors have attempted to prepare a text 
suitable for use in college classes or by the public, shorter and more readable 
than the technical handbooks, yet sufficiently thorough and comprehensive to 
give a sound grasp of the subject as a whole with so much of the technology 
as is directly helpful to the consumer and as should be included in general 
courses in colleges and technical or vocational schools. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York 



Physics of the Household 

By C. J. LYNDE 

Professor of Physics in Macdonald College, Canada 

Illustrated, i2mo, $7.25 

This book presents in an exceptionally clear and direct manner the 
subject matter of a concise yet sufficiently comprehensive course for those 
beginning the study of physics whether in the college, the technical insti- 
tute, or the secondary school. The principles are made clear by applica- 
tion to household affairs and other every-day experiences. Although 
adapted to the requirements of beginners, those who have previously 
studied physics will also welcome the concise review of principles and the 
many applications and illustrations. In addition to its merits as a text- 
book, it constitutes a most interesting and useful manual on household 
appliances and processes. Any one who is interested either in knowing 
just how the familiar appliances work, or in equipping a house according 
to the most modern methtnls, will find in Professor Lynde's book a wealth 
of stimulating and highly practical information. 



Elementary Household Chemistry 

By J. F. SNELL 

Professor of Chemistry in Macdonald College, Canada 

Illustrated, i2mo, $7.25 

In this textbook are to be found many new features bt)th in tlie selec- 
tion and in the presentation of its subject matter. The principles of 
chemistry are developed and their every-day applications are stu(Med 
simultaneously. The book is the outgrowth of a course given by the 
author for the last six years to students of high school and college age, but 
of varying degrees of preliminary training. The course has, therefore, 
been simple and the aim has been to introduce only such principles as 
fmd immediate application in connection with household work, but to 
present these principles in a correct and truly scientific manner. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York 











LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 485 763 A 



' : r :i;:J 



FOODS AND 
COOKERY 



MATTESON and NEWLANDS 





LIBRARY 

ANNEX 



2 




Hutt (Qollege of Agrintlturc 

At QIarnell Iniuecsitg 

ffiibtarg 



Cornell University Library 
TX 663.M3 



A laboratory manual of foods and cookery 




■'■o'?i C,n9. 599 937 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis bool< is in 
tlie Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003599937 



A LABORATORY MANUAL OF 
FOODS AND COOKERY 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

NEW YORK ■ BOSTON ■ CHICAGO • DALLAS 
ATLANTA • SAN FRANCISCO 

MACMILLAN & CO., Limited 

LONDON • BOMBAY • CALCUTTA 
MELBOURNE 

THE MACMILLAN CO. OF CANADA, Ltd. 

TORONTO 



A LABORATORY MANUAL OF 
FOODS AND COOKERY 



BY 

EMMA B. MATTESON 

INSTRUCTOR IN HOME ECONOMICS, GEORGE PEABODY 
COLLEGE FOR TEACHERS' 

AND 

ETHEL M. NEWLANDS 

DIRECTOR OF HOME ECONOMICS, THE BUFFALO 
TECHNICAL HIGH SCHOOL 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 
1917 

^U rights reserved 



(3> 

GOPYRIGHT, I916, 

By the MACMILLAN COMPANY. 



Set up and electrotyped. Published June. 1916. Reprinted 
February, September, 1917. 



J. S. Gushing Co. — Berwick & Smith Co. 
Norwood, Mass., U.S.A. 



PREFACE 

Teaching experience has shown the need of a textbook ap- 
proaching the study of foods and cookery through experimental 
work in chemistry, bacteriology, and biology. In this book, 
therefore, under each topic a considerable number of experi- 
ments will be found. The performance of these experiments 
and the answering of the questions which arise from them will 
give the student a firsthand acquaintance with the leading char- 
acteristics of each kind of food, will furnish a basis for the 
discussion of the procedures used in cookery, and should give 
her such a grasp of the principles involved as will enable her to 
work without recipes, or to develop her own. The attainment 
of such mastery on the part of the student is, however, greatly 
facilitated by practice with a considerable number of recipes 
which have already been thoroughly tested, just as in other ex- 
perimental sciences, the student is taught in part through prac- 
tice with explicit and workable laboratory directions. Hence, 
in addition to the experiments, the present work will be found 
to contain thoroughly tested recipes in adequate number and 
variety to permit of choice. It has also seemed wise to include 
a considerable number of "score cards" to facilitate judgment 
of the finished product ; and of illustrative calculations of nutri- 
tive values of typical cooked foods. Each chapter has been 
made sufficiently complete in itself so that the topics may be 
taken up in any desired sequence and not necessarily in the 
order followed in the book. 

This Laboratory Manual was worked out through the corre- 
lated experience of the authors at Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, and 
Simmons College, Boston, and is amplified by their individual 



VI PREFACE 

experiences in the Public Schools of New York City and New 
Haven ; the State Normal School at Winona, Minnesota ; The 
School of Education of The University of Chicago ; and The 
Diet School of Johns Hopkins Hospital. 

The authors desire to acknowledge the help given by Pro- 
fessor Ada Field of George Peabody College for Teachers, in 
the revision of the manuscript, and to express their appreciation 
of the encouragement received from Dr. Henry Clapp Sherman, 
of Columbia University. 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER I 
Beverages 

PAGE 

Food value of beverages. The methods of serving beverages. 
Fruit acids. The stimulants of beverages. Experiments with tea, 
coffee, chocolate, and cocoa. Recipes for preparation of stimulating 
and nutritive beverages. Recipes for cereal waters. References . 1 

CHAPTER II 
Fruits 

Classification. Composition and nutritive value. General rules 
for preparation. Reasons for cooking fruit. How to purchase fruit. 
Experiments with fruits. Recipes for preparation of fresh and dried 
fruits. Food value of apple sauce and stewed prunes. References . 11 

CHAPTER III 
Canning and Preserving 

Methods of preservation of fruits and vegetables. Experiments 
with fruits and vegetables. General rules for canning and preserv- 
ing. General directions for canning and preserving. Recipes. 
Score card for canned fruits, preserves. References ... 22 

CHAPTER IV 
Cereals 

Composition and nutritive value. How to purchase cereals. 
Reasons for cooking cereals. Methods of cooking. Methods of 
serving, variations in serving, differences in consistency. Table of 
time and amounts of water per unit of cereal. General rules for 
cooking of cereals. Experiments. Recipes for cereals, cereals with 
fruits, farinaceous desserts, gruels. References .... 47 

vii 



vm CONTENTS 

CHAPTER V 
Vegetables and Vegetable Soups 

PAGE 

Composition and nutritive value. Classification. Points to em- 
phasize. Reasons for cooking vegetables. Ways of serving vege- 
tables. General principles. Experiments. Recipes for vegetables. 
White sauce, creamed vegetables, scalloped vegetables. Recipes for 
scalloped dishes, cream soups, and purees. Food values of baked 
beans, creamed potato, cream of pea soup, cream of tomato soup, 
cream of potato soup, cream of lentil soup, split pea soup. Refer- 
ences ............. 58 

CHAPTER VI 
Hilk, Cream, and Butter 

Composition and nutritive value. Experiments with cream, butter, 
buttermilk ; sweet milk, sour milk ; cheese ; absorption of odors. 
Recipes for junkets, custards, puddings. Food value of baked cus- 
tard, rice pudding with eggs. References .... 82 

CHAPTER VII 

Cheese 
Composition and nutritive value. Recipes for cheese. (Experi- 
ments, see Chapter VI.) Food value of macaroni and cheese, rice 
with cheese and tomatoes. References ..... 95 

CHAPTER VIII 
Eggs, Souffles, and Croquettes 

Composition and nutritive value. Experiments. Recipes for eggs. 
Food value of scrambled eggs. Recipes for souffles. Experiments 
with fats for frying. Recipes for croquettes. Score card for cro- 
quettes. References .... 107 

CHAPTER IX 
Meats, Stock Soups, and Gelatin 

Quality of good meat. Composition and nutritive value. Pre- 
served meat. Meat experiments. Cuts of beef, veal, lamb and mut- 



CONTENTS IX 

PAGE 

ton, pork. Soups. Recipes for stock soups ; recipes for meats ; 
meat sauces. Score card for roast of meat. Gelatin. Composition 
and nutritive value. Experiments with gelatin. Gelatin desserts. 
Food value of snovif pudding. Score card for gelatin desserts. 
References 123 

CHAPTER X 

Poultry 

Quality. Composition and digestibility. Dressing and cleaning 
poultry. Trussing poultry. Directions for boning poultry or birds. 
Recipes for poultry : sauces •. 153 

CHAPTER XI 

Fish and Shellfish 

Classes of fish. Freshness of fish. Composition and nutritive 
value. Preserved fish. Vegetables suitable for serving vifith fish as 
a garnish. Sauces for fish. Fish in combination with other food. 
Cleaning fish. Boning fish. Methods of cooking. Aim in cooking 
fish. Recipes for fish. Fish sauces. Food value of creamed cod- 
fish on toast. Shellfish ; oysters, clams, scallops, lobsters, crabs. 
Recipes. References 158 

CHAPTER XII 

Flour Mixtures 

Composition and nutritive value. Experiments with flour, bread, 
muffins, baking powder biscuits, pastry, cake. Experiments with 
leavens : sodium bicarbonate, yeasts. Classification of flour mix- 
tures. References 172 

CHAPTER XIII 

Batters and Doughs 

Recipes : bread, light, quick ; rolls, sticks, buns. Score cards for 
bread, raised biscuits ; recipes for baking powder biscuits, variations 
in baking powder biscuits. Food value of baking powder biscuits. 
Score card for baking powder biscuits. Recipes for griddlecakes 
and waffles ; timbale cases ; fritters ; doughnuts ; muffins. Food 



X CONTENTS 

PAGE 

value of plain muffins. Score card for muffins. Recipes for pop- 
overs, cream puffs, flour pastes. Classification of cookies. Recipes 
for cookies. Food value of molasses cookies, hermits. Score card 
for rolled cookies, dropped cookies 189 



CHAPTER XIV 
Cake 

General rules for mixing. General rules for baking. Recipes for 
butter cakes, molasses cakes, sponge cakes, angel food cakes. Food 
values of hot water gingerbread, chocolate cake, hot water sponge 
cake. Score cards for loaf cake, layer cake, sponge cake. Recipes 
for cooked frostings ; uncooked frostings ; cake fillings . . . 218 



CHAPTER XV 
Pastry- 
Recipes for plain paste ; puff paste ; cheese straws ; fillings for 
pies. Score cards for two-crust pie, one-crust pie, one-crust pie and 
meringue ............ 235 



CHAPTER XVI 
Flour Mixtures using Sour Milk, Buttermilk, Sour Cream 

Recipes for breads, puddings, cakes, cookies, gingerbread, dough- 
nuts ... 243 

CHAPTER XVII 
Salads and Sandwiches 

Classification of salad greens, salad foundations, variations in salad 
dressings. Service of salads. To prepare salad greens. Combina- 
tions for salads. Food values of vegetable salad, romaine or lettuce 
salad. General rules for sandwiches. Classification of conveyors for 
filling ; classification of fillings. Food value of whole wheat bread 
and cheese sandwiches ......... 248 



CONTENTS XI 

CHAPTER XVIII 
Salad Dressings 

PAGE 

Experiments. Recipes for French dressing and variations ; cream 
dressing ; boiled dressing ; mayonnaise dressing. Food values of 
mayonnaise dressing, French dressing, boiled dressing. References 260 

CHAPTER XIX 
Desserts 

Recipes for steamed puddings, pudding sauces. Experiments with 
frozen desserts. Classification of frozen desserts. Recipes for frozen 
desserts ; ice creams, ices, sherbets, frappes, mousses. Food values 
of vanilla ice cream, milk sherbet. Score card for sherbets and ices ; 
Philadelphia ice cream ; custard ice cream. References for ice cream 265 

CHAPTER XX 
Sugar and Candy 

Composition and nutritive value of sugar. Experiments with sugar. 
General directions for fondant. Directions for using fondant. Reci- 
pes for candy, candied orange peel, salted almonds. References for 
sugar . 284 

CHAPTER XXI 
Recipes for Fifty Servings 

Recipes for beverages, fruits, cereals, vegetables, cream soups, 
stock soups, meats, meat substitutes, fish, flour mixtures, salads, des- 
serts, frozen desserts 295 



LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS 
AND COOKERY 



CHAPTER I 
BEVERAGES 

Beverages are mixtures of liquids and flavoring material and 
may be classified as acid, albuminous, starchy, and stimulating. 
Acid beverages are lemonade, orangeade, grapejuice, and fruit 
punch. Albuminous beverages are liquids to which is added 
egg albumin, egg yolk, or milk. Starchy beverages are cereals 
cooked in a large quantity of water, as a gruel strained and 
cooked. Stimulating beverages are tea, coffee, cocoa, cocoa 
shells, and chocolate. 

Food value of beverages. Acid beverages are valuable be- 
cause of organic acids and mineral matter (" ash constituents ") 
present. Also because of sugar which is naturally contained 
as well as that usually added, the stimulation of peristaltic 
action, the diuretic action, and lastly the appetizing odor and 
taste. 

Albuminous and starchy beverages are valuable because of 
their increased nutritive value, and because they may be easily 
taken. Such beverages are primarily designed for invalids, and 
a considerable amount of nutriment can be taken in this form 
in the course of a day, especially as milk can be added and the 
nutritive value of a starchy drink thus greatly increased. 



2 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Stimulating beverages are valuable because of the food value 
of cream or milk and sugar usually served with them. Also 
because various food products, as bread, rolls, toast, cookies, 
crullers, cake, often accompany the beverage. 

The stimulant of tea, coffee, or chocolate when taken in strict 
moderation is usually not harmful to adults, but is often re- 
freshing and not followed by the depression which follows the 
stimulating effect of alcohol. 

For description of beverages and standards of purity see 
Sherman's Food Products, pages 436-438 and 465-469. 

Methods of serving beverages. Beverages to be served cold 
should be cooled in the refrigerator or ice cream freezer but 
should not have ice put in them. 

Beverages to be served hot should be served fresh from the 
fire and should not be reheated. Where boiling water is to be 
used, it should be fresh water boUed and not reboiled water. 
Tea and coffee should be made in a receptacle which can be 
tightly covered, as it is the aroma which we wish to preserve. 

Fruit beverages may be served with the grated rind of fruit, 
slices of fruit, small fruits as strawberries and cherries, whole 
cloves, apollinaris water, or vichy water. 

Stimulating beverages may be served hot, cold, or partly 
frozen. 

Tea may be served with milk, sugar, slices of lemon or orange, 
whole cloves or lime drops. 

Coffee may be served with hot milk, cream, sugar. 

Chocolate may be served with milk, cream (whipped or im- 
whipped), sweetened chocolate grated and sprinkled on top of 
cream, marshmallow, stick cinnamon. 

Fruit acids. The characteristic acids of fruits are as follows : 
lemons and oranges, citric acid; apples, malic acid; grapes, 
potassium acid tartrate. 

The characteristic alkaloids found in stimulating beverages 
are for tea, theine ; coffee, caffeine ; chocolate, theobromine. 



BEVERAGES 3 

The theine of tea has been found identical with the caffeine 
of coffee. Tannin of tea influences its taste. (See experiments 
with tea.) Caffetannic acid influences the flavor of coffee. 
The flavor of both tea and coffee is doubtless also influenced 
by the volatile oils which they both contain but which are 
largely lost on long boiling. 

Of tea, coffee, and chocolate, the latter has much the highest 
food value. 

EXPERIMENTS 
Tea 

1. — Prepare four cups of tea, A, B, C, D, in the following manner 
(use black tea) : 

A. I level tsp. tea, i c. boiling water (note the temperature 
at which the water boils). Pour the boiling water through the tea 
leaves, but do not allow the leaves to remain in the cup. 

B. I level tsp. tea, i c. boiling water. Pour the boiling 
water over the tea leaves and allow it to stand over the leaves 5 
minutes. Decant off the infusion. 

C. Repeat B, but do not decant the infusion. Allow it to 
cool and then reheat it. 

D. I level tsp. tea, i c. boiling water. Pour the boiling 
water over the leaves and continue the boiling for 5 minutes. 

Note the color, odor, and taste of each cup of tea. 

2. — a. Test 2 tbsp. of each cup of tea with 5 drops of lead acetate 
solution.^ 

b. What change occurs? 

c. To what is this change due? 

d. Which method of making tea brings the most tannin into 
the infusion? 

' Lead acetate solution. Dissolve 18 gm. of lead acetate in 70 ccm. of hot dis- 
tilled water ; to this add 1 1 gm. of lead oxide. Boil the mixture for 30 minutes with 
occasional stirring, allow it to settle for a few minutes, and decant the clear liquid. 
Add enough distilled water to make the volume up to 81 ccm. For ordinary' use 
take I part of this solution to 4 parts distilled water. This solution is used as 
a precipitant in testing infusions and fruit juices. 



4 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

3. — Compare characteristics of black and green tea by preparing 
by the best method a cup of tea made from black tea and one made 
from green tea. Use for each cup — 

I tsp. tea I c. boiling water 

4. — Compare various kinds of black tea by preparing a cup of 
tea from each of the following : 

" English Breakfast " Orange Pekoe 

Flowery Pekoe Oolong 

Coffee 
Have ready the following : 

A. Coffee pot. 

B. Coffee pot and aluminum cup with perforated sides. 

C. Coffee pot and cloth bag. 

D. Percolator. 

1 powdered 
pulverized 
finely ground 

5.' — a. Use : coffee pots A, B, C, and percolator D. 

powdered 
2 tbsp. coffee pulverized 

finely ground 

Use first the finely ground coffee, add t cup of cold water, 
place in the coffee pots and in the percolator, heat until the boiling 
point is reached. Boil 2 minutes, allow the beverage to stand with- 
out cooking s minutes. 

b. Note the color, clearness, odor, flavor. 

6. — a. Repeat 5 a, using pulverized and powdered coffee in turn. 

b. Compare the results as to efficiency. 

c. Compare the results as to color, clearness, odor, flavor, 
oiliness. 

' For convenience of reference experiments are numbered consecutively through- 
out the book. 



BEVERAGES S 

7. — Repeat the above experiments, boiling the coffee in each 
instance 4 minutes, 6 minutes, 10 minutes in turn. 

8. — a. Prepare coffee by the methods used in 7 (boiling 4, 6, 10 
minutes), but before putting the coffee into the utensil add i tbsp. 
egg white. Note : Part of the class use 5 egg shell. 

h. Note the color, clearness, odor, flavor, oiliness. 

c. Does the egg white or shell produce^ any improvement ? 
Explain. 

d. By what other method may coffee be cleared? 

9. — a. Prepare coffee in the utensils used in the previous ex- 
periments. Try each of the coffees in succession. Use 2 tbsp. coffee 
and pour upon it i cup of vigorously boiling water. Do not allow 
beverage to boU, but simmer for 1 minute. 

h. Compare the results in each case as before. 

10. — Prepare coffee as in 5 o using i c. boiling water instead of 
cold water. AUow the coffee to boil 4, 6, 10 minutes and compare 
with that made by other methods. 

Which method and which utensils produce the most accept- 
able beverage ? 

Is it possible to produce good results by more than one method ? 

For each utensil which method is best and to what stage should 
the coffee be ground ? 

11. — a. Test 2 tbsp. of coffee infusion made by each method 
with s drops of lead acetate. See page 3. 

6. Is the presence of tannic acid shown ? 

c. By which method of making coffee is the most produced? 

Cocoa and Chocolate 

Prepare a paste of 2 tsp. cocoa and 2 tbsp. hot water. Use this 
to correspond with J sq. chocolate. 

Perform each experiment first with cocoa, then with chocolate. 

12. — a. Prepare cocoa and chocolate using : 

2 tsp. cocoa paste f 5 c. water 

I c. cold liquid < 
J sq. chocolate [ i c milk 



6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

b. Pour the cold liquid on to the paste or chocolate. Cook 
in the double boiler 5 minutes after the liquid is hot. 

c. Compare each as to flavor, sweetness, color. 

d. What is the result when cold liquid is added to the paste 
or chocolate ? 

e. Is this a desirable method of preparing cocoa or chocolate ? 

13. — Prepare cocoa and chocolate using the paste and j sq. 
chocolate by heating the liquid first. Cook in the double boiler 5, 
10, IS minutes, testing flavor and consistency at each stage. 

14. — Prepare a paste of the chocolate by melting it over hot 
water and adding 2 tsp. hot water to j sq. chocolate. 

a. Use the cocoa and chocolate paste and prepare bever- 
ages using I c. hot milk for each. Pour the hot liquid slowly on to 
the paste, mixing it in thoroughly each time until a smooth, brown 
mixture results. Cook this in a double boiler 15 to 20 minutes. 
Note the flavor and consistency as compared with previous methods. 

b. To this last beverage add 2 drops vanUla and a grain or 
two of salt. Is the flavor improved? Why? 

c. Beat the beverage with a Dover egg beater. Result? 
How do you explain the frothy consistency which results? 
What difierences are noted between cocoa and chocolate as bever- 
ages ? How are these accounted for ? 

Hot Tea 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. tea 4 c. boiling water 

Method : 

Follow the method which was found most desirable in the experi- 
ments. 



Cold Tea I 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. tea 2 qt. cold water 

Method : 

Put tea in a pitcher or glass jar, turn in the cold water and allow it 
to stand overnight in the refrigerator. Decant the liquid from the 
leaves and serve ice cold. 



BEVERAGES 7 

Cold Tea II 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. tea 4 c. boiling water 

4 c. cold water 
Method : 

Prepare tea and boiling water as for hot tea. Dilute the infusion 
with the 4 cups of cold water. Decant from the tea leaves, allow 
the liquid to cool, and serve ice cold. 

Note : a. Cold tea is more appetizing if it is served about one half as 
strong as hot tea. 

b. In preparing hot tea use only water which is fresh and just 

beginning to boil. 

c. Do not use a tin teapot ; use a tea ball, crockery or china teapot. 

d. Do not use tea leaves a second time. 

e. Never allow tea to boil. 

/. Do not allow tea to stand over the tea leaves after steeping has 
been accomplished. If tea has to be kept hot for a time, 
turn the infusion from the leaves. 



Black Coffee 

Ingredients : 

I c. coffee i egg 

5 c. cold water 5 c. boiling water 

5 c. cold water 

Method : 

Mix coffee, J c. cold water, and egg together, let stand ten minutes 
in coffee pot. Pour in boiling water and boil gently for five minutes. 
Remove to warm part of stove, add 5 c. cold water, pouring some of 
it down the spout of coffee pot. Serve at once. 



Cocoa 

Ingredients : 

I c. cocoa I c. water or coffee (hot) 

J c. sugar 3 c. mUk (hot) 

Method : 

Mix cocoa and sugar together in a saucepan, pour over the hot 
water or coffee and let boil until a syrup is formed (this cooks the 



8 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

starch in the cocoa) . Add the hot milk, stirring it in slowly, return 
to a double boiler and let cook 15 to 20 minutes. A few grains of 
salt and a drop of vanQla may be added just before serving. Serve 
with whipped cream or beat to a froth with a Dover beater. 

Chocolate 

Ingredients : 

4 c. milk, 2 oz. chocolate 

or 2 c. milk and ^ c. sugar 

2 c. water I c. water (hot) 

Method : 

Grate or cut the chocolate into small pieces, place in upper part 
of a double boiler, add the sugar and J c. of hot water. AUow .the 
chocolate to melt and cook with the sugar untQ a smooth paste is 
formed. Add the milk or milk and water to this chocolate mixture, 
stirring it constantly with a wooden spoon and adding the liquid very 
slowly. When the liquid has been added, beat it vigorously with the 
Dover egg beater and then allow it to cook 1 5 to 20 minutes. 

Note : a. If flakes of chocolate appear, the liquid was added in too large 
quantities at a time. 

b. Always pour the liquid into the chocolate paste, otherwise the 

flakes will be sure to appear. 

c. The long cooking of both cocoa and chocolate is necessary because 

of the starch which is characteristic of both. 

d. The flavor of both chocolate and cocoa is improved by allowing it 

to stand 15 to 20 minutes in a warm place after cooking and 
before serving. 

Lemon Whey 

Ingredients : 

I c. hot milk 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

2 tbsp. sugar 
Method : 

Heat the milk in a double boiler. Add the lemon juice. Cook 
without stirring until the whey separates. Strain through cheese- 
cloth, and add the sugar. Serve hot or cold. Garnish with small 
pieces or slice of lemon. 



BEVERAGES 9 

Lemonade 

Ingredients : 

I lemon 2 tbsp. sugar 

I c. boiling water f thin slice lemon 

Method : 

Wash and wipe lemon ; cut a very thin slice from middle ; use this 
for garnish. Squeeze juice into a bowl (keeping back the seeds), 
add the sugar and boiling water ; cover, and put on ice to keep cool. 
Strain and pour into a glass or sherbet cup. Cut half the slice of 
lemon into two pieces, and use as garnish in glass; a few berries or 
slice of orange may be used. 

Note : The quantity of sugar in lemonade may be varied, depending upon 
the acidity of the fruit. 



Grape Juice and Egg 

Ingredients : 

I egg I tbsp. sugar 

J c. rich milk J c. grape juice 

i tsp. powdered sugar 
Method : 

Beat the yolk and white separately very light. To the yolk add 
milk, sugar, and grape juice, and pour into glass. To the white add 
a httle powdered sugar and a tbsp. of grape juice. Serve on yolk 
mixture. Chill aU ingredients before using. 



Oatmeal Water 

Ingredients : 

I tbsp. oatmeal salt 

I tbsp. cold water i qt. boiling water 

Method : 

Mix oatmeal and cold water, add salt, and stir into the boiling 
water. Boil three hours ; replenish the water as it boils away. 
Strain through a fine sieve or cheesecloth. Season, serve cold. 
Different brands of oatmeal vary considerably in the amount of 
water which they take up in cooking, and sufficient should always 
be added to make this drink almost as thin as water. 



lo LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Barley Water 

Ingredients : 

15 tbsp. pearl barley i qt. cold water 

salt 
Method : 

Wash barley, add cold water and let soak several hours or over 
night. Drain and add the fresh, cold water, boil gently over direct 
heat two hours, or in a double boiler steadily four hours, down to 
one pint, adding water from time to time; season with salt. Strain 
through muslin. 

Note : Cream or milk may be added, or lemon juice and sugar. Barley 
water is a slightly astringent or demulcent drink used to re- 
duce laxative condition. 

References 

Bailey. Source, Chemistry, and Use of Food. 

BOLAND. Handbook of Invahd Cookery. 

Friedenwald and Ruhrah. Diet in Health and Disease. 

Hausmann. Home Manufacture and Use of Unfermented Grape 

Juice. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' 

Bulletin No. 175 (1903). 
Kakuzo. The Book of Tea. 
Kellogg, Ella. Science in the Kitchen, Principles of Healthful 

Cookery. 
Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 
Lincoln and Barrows. Home Science Cook Book. 
Meunier, L. Fruit Juices. Ontario Department of Agriculture, 

Fruit Branch Bulletin No. 200 (191 2). 
Pattee. Practical Dietetics with Special Reference to Diet in 

Disease. 
Practical Dietetics. Demonstration Iowa State College Agri- 
culture Extension Department. Short Course Class Notes 

No. 8. 
Sachse. How to Cook for the Sick. 
Sherman. Food Products. 



CHAPTER II 
FRUITS 

Fkuits are divided into five general classes — small fruits, 
orchard fruits, grapes, citrus fruits, and tropical fruits. 

These are available either in the fresh or dried state and all 
may be served raw or cooked. 

Fruits vary greatly in chemical composition. Their value 
in the diet is due chiefly to the ash constituents rather than to 
the protein, carbohydrate, or fat content. (See Sherman's 
Food Products, pages 335-338 for percentage composition and 
pages 347-349 for percentage of ash in the edible portion.) 

When their energy value (due chiefly to carbohydrates) and 
their relative richness in certain important ash constituents 
are considered, the staple fruits are found to be more econom- 
ical articles of food than is generally recognized. Except near 
the regions where grown, the dried fruits are usually more 
economical than the fresh. 

The dietetic value of fruits is greater than could be inferred 
from the percentage composition alone, because of their refresh- 
ing and other desirable qualities which cannot as yet be sub- 
jected to quantitative measurement. The agreeable " ethe- 
real " and acid flavors of fruit are helpful to appetite and 
doubtless also to digestion. 

Fruit may be either a laxative or an astringent or both, as 
in the case of fruits which contain astringent substance in the 
skin, while the pulp is laxative. Fruit is also valuable for its 
antiscorbutic property and often seems to act as a mild and 



12 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

beneficial diuretic. The cellulose is useful in giving bulk to the 
food residues and preventing their stagnation in the intestine. 

A given fruit often shows quite different properties at differ- 
ent stages in ripening, the most distinct changes in composi- 
tion being usually a decrease in acid and starch with an increase 
in sugar content. Pectin substances present in underripe fruits 
cause fruit juices to jelly. 

The desirability of increasing the use of fruit as food and the 
variety of attractive properties possessed by fruits and fruit 
products, lend special interest to the subject of fruit cookery. 

General rules for preparation : 

Small and soft fruits need careful handling when washed. Fill 
bowl with cold water, put fruit in and remove with strainer or per- 
forated spoon in order not to crush. 

Hard fruits, if small, may be washed in a colander under running 
water, or if large wiped with a damp cloth. 

Decayed spots, bruises, or worm holes should be removed, prefer- 
ably with a silver knife. 

Cover pared fruits with cold water until ready to cook. 

Oranges, lemons, and grapefruit should be scrubbed with a brush ; 
bananas peeled and scraped, raspberries and blackberries removed 
from baskets with a fork to avoid crushing. 

Dried fruits should be examined and washed in several waters. 

Reasons for cooking fruit : 

To soften cellulose. 

In some instances to insure digestibility. 

To further variety in serving. 

In some instances to destroy bacteria. 

How to purchase : 

Fruits are economical when purchased in season, and if storage fa- 
cihties allow, should be bought in quantity. Freshness and cleanli- 
ness should receive first consideration. Dried fruits may take the 
place of fresh fruits when the latter are not in season. The cost of 
fruits varies with locality — study the market m your own section. 



FRUITS ' 13 

EXPERIMENTS 

Apple 

15.^ — Grate an apple into a bowl. With a wooden spoon 
thoroughly mash the sohd matter with the juice. 
What change in color is observed? 

16. — Add about 2 tbsp. of water to the mixture obtained in Expt. 
15, and strain the Kquid through wet cheesecloth into a bowl. Filter 
the juice through a wet fluted filter and keep it for Expt. 17 and 18 
below. To portions of the apple pulp apply : 

a. The MUlon test ^ for protein. 

b. The iodine test for starch.' 

17. — To small portions of the clear filtered apple juice obtained 
in Expt. 16, apply the following tests : 

a. Heat about 10 cc. to boiling in a test tube and notice 
whether coagulation takes place. Filter through a wet fluted paper 
and test the residue on the paper by adding a few drops of nitric 
acid. If protein is present, it will be turned yellow by the nitric acid. 

b. Test for starch by adding iodine solution. (The portion 
of solution to which this test is applied must be cool.) 

c. Test for " reducing sugars " by mixing a small amount of 
the clear juice with an equal volume of the Fehling-Benedict* solution, 
allow to stand a minute and note any change of color, then boil for 
two minutes. (Reference should be made to Leach's Food Inspection 

' For convenience the experiments are numbered consecutively throughout the 
book. 

^ Millon's reagent: One part, by weight, of mercury dissolved in two parts of 
strong nitric acid. Dilute the solution with twice its bulk of water. After standing 
24 hours, the supernatant liquid should be decanted from the precipitate. Proteins 
are colored red by this solution. Warming aids the development of the color. 

' Starch, iodine reaction: To the material to be tested for starch add a few drops 
of iodine solution (iodine dissolved in a water solution of potassium iodide). A 
blue, violet, or purple color indicates the presence of starch. 

^ Fekling-Benedict soiution : 
34.65 gm. crystallized copper sulphate made up to 500 cc. with distilled water. 
173 gm. Rochelle salt 
100 gm. anhydrous sodium carbonate 



> made up to 500 cc. with distilled water. 



14 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

and Analysis, Sherman's Organic Analysis, or Woodmann's Food 
Analysis.) 

d. Test for proteins by means of Millon's reagent, making 
the test as closely comparable with that of the pulp as possible. 

18. — Preparation of pectin.' 

a. Neutralize the remaining apple juice with a sufficient 
quantity of caustic soda (sodium hydroxide) solution. 

b. Heat the neutral fluid to boiling to complete the coagu- 
lation of the protein. 

c. Filler ort a wet fluted paper while the liquid is hot. 

d. To the cold filtrate in a beaker or glass add alcohol, Uttle 
by little, in sufficient quantity to produce a bulky, gelatinous precipi- 
tate of pectin. An equal volume of alcohol may be required. (Save 
this for Expt. 19.) 

19. — Properties of pectin. Continuing the work begun in Expt. 18 : 

a. Allow the alcohol to evaporate after decanting off as much 
as possible. 

h. Dissolve the pectin in water and concentrate by heating. 

c. Turn into beaker and let cool. The gelatinizing power 
of pectin will be shown. 

Note : Other fruits or vegetables may be used to further demonstrate the 
above principles. Compare the experiments on \egetables, 
jellies, and gelatin described in later chapters. 

20. — Decay of fruit (A). Place in a jar a number of apples that 
have been bruised or cut, packing them in rather tightly. Scatter 
in the jar some spores of the common mold which will usually 
be found on moldy lemon. Close the jar and set aside. Prepare 
a second jar with some whole clean apples and treat in the same 
way. Compare the two jars for a week or two to see if decay makes 
its appearance in either or both of the jars. Does bruising hasten 
the decay of the fruit ? 

1 Pectin, to which the essential gelatinous consistency of fruit jellies is due, is a 
substance belonging to the group of carbohydrates. Il is entirely different from 
gelatin, which is a peculiar protein obtained from bone and other animal tissues and 
forms the basis of animal jellies. 



FRUITS 15 

21. — Decay of fruit (B). Make a cut through the skin of an 
apple with a knife blade that has been previously dipped into the 
midst of a mass of mold spores. Put the apple aside in a jar and 
examine carefully until it decays. Note that the decay begins rather 
quickly and starts at the point of the cut where the spores were 
inoculated. 

22. — Experiment. Apple Sauce 

I apple 2 tbsp. sugar 

5 tbsp. water 5 tsp. nutmeg 

Prepare apple sauce by paring and slicing the apple and cooking 
it in the water until soft. Let half the class (a) add sugar at begin- 
ning of process ; the other half (b) add sugar at end of process. 

Use the thermometer constantly and compare the temperatures 
throughout the making of the apple sauce. 

Account for differences in color, taste, and consistency. 

23. Experiment. Baked Apple 

Prepare baked apples in the following ways : in each case core and 
fill cavity with sugar. 

a. Wash and remove skin from apple. Bake in slow oven. 
(Temperature ?) 

b. Repeat with a second apple but bake in a hot oven. 
(Temperature ?) 

c. Wash and core third and fourth apples. Do not remove 
skin. Bake one in slow, and one in hot oven. 

d. Wash and core fifth and sixth apples. Make a slit around 
each apple, through the skin. Bake one in a hot oven, one in slow. 

Which method and temperature produces best result ? 



l6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Baked Apples 

Ingredients : 

8 apples I c. sugar 

J tsp. cinnamon 
Method: 

Select apples of uniform size. Wipe and core apples. Make an 
incision in the skin to allow steam to escape, place in baking dish, 
and fill cavities with sugar and spice. Surround apples with boiling 
water and bake in a hot oven until soft, basting frequently. 

Variations 

The apples may be pared before coring. The cores may be filled 
with: 

brown sugar sugar and lemon juice 

raisins and nuts sugar and orange juice 

cooked prunes and nuts cooked oatmeal and raisins 

jelly uncooked custard 

Steamed Apples 

Wipe, pare, and core apples. Place in double boiler, cover and 
steam until apples are soft. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Apples-in-Bloom 

Wipe and core red apples. Steam until tender and remove skins. 
The apples should be pink when steamed. 

Apple Sauce 

Ingredients : 

8 apples water 

I c. sugar nutmeg 

Method : 

Wipe, pare, and slice apples. Cook in a small amount of water 
until soft, add sugar and cook until sugar dissolves. Strain. Grate 
nutmeg over the sauce. 



FRUITS 



17 



Ingredients : 
Method : 



8 apples 
I c. sugar 



Stewed Apples 

1 c. water 

2 tbsp. lemon juice 



Wipe and pare apples. Core and cut in halves, quarters, eighths, 
or circles, or cut in balls with vegetable cutter. Place in cold water 
while preparing a sirup of the sugar and water by boiling 3 minutes. 
Cook apples, a few at a time, in the sirup until soft. Remove all 
sirup, add lemon juice, and boil until thick,. Strain the thick sirup 
and pour it upon the apples. 

Baked Bananas 

Peel bananas, scrape with silver knife, and cut in halves length- 
wise. Place on buttered pan, sprinkle with sugar and lemon juice, 
and bake in a slow oven until soft, basting often with the sirup. 

Bananas may also be baked in the skins. 



Baked Crabapples 

Crabapples should be left whole. If cooked slowly enough the 
liquid in the pan will form a red jelly. This should be served with 
the crabapples. 

Baked Quinces 

Ingredients : 

8 quinces i c sugar 

15 c. water 
Method : 

Wipe, quarter, core and pare quinces. Put in a baking dish, 
sprinkle with sugar, add the water, cover and cook until soft in a slow 
oven. 

Baked Pears 

Ingredients : 

8 pears i c. sugar 

I c. water 
Method : 

Same as for quinces. Small pears may be baked whole. 



1 8 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Cranberry Sauce 

Ingredients : 

I qt. cranberries 2 c. sugar 

2 c. water 
Method : * 

Remove bruised berries, wash others in a strainer, and cook them in 
water until they begin to burst. Add sugar and cook until thoroughly 
soft. Skim. 

Cranberry Jelly 

Ingredients : 

I qt. cranberries 2 c. sugar 

I c. water 
Method : 

Cook cranberries in water until soft and press through a strainer. 
Add sugar to the pulp. Stir until sugar dissolves, then boil until it 
wiU jelly when dropped on a cold plate. Pour into molds previously 
wet with cold water. 

Spiced Cranberry Jelly 

Ingredients : 

I qt. cranberries 12 cloves 

1 c. water 3 allspice berries 

2 c. sugar small piece cinnamon 

I tsp. salt 
Method : 

Tie spices in cheesecloth. Cook with berries and water until 
berries are soft. Strain, and proceed as for cranberry jelly. 

Dried Fruit 

General Rules. 

1. Wash quickly in several waters. 

2. Soak in cold water overnight. 

a. Shortens time of cooking. 

b. Develops better flavor. 

c. Lessens amount of sugar required. 

3. Cook in this water until tender, using flame or the iireless 
cooker. 

4. Add sugar to softened fruit and cook a few minutes longer. 



FRUITS 19 

Prunes 

Ingredients : 

I lb. prunes i qt. water 

I tbsp. lemon juice i tbsp. orange juice 

J c. sugar 

, . Apricots 

Ingredients : 

I lb. apricots i qt. water 

I c. sugar 

NUTRITIVE VALUES OF COOKED FOODS 

Because of variable changes in water content during cook- 
ing, as well as variations in recipes used, it is not satisfactory to 
attempt general statements of composition of cooked foods 
and as a rule only raw foods are included in the standard 
tables. It is, however, entirely feasible for the student of 
cookery in any given operation to weigh the ingredients and 
the final product and calculate the composition and food 
value of the latter. Full directions and data for such cal- 
culations will be found in Rose's Laboratory Handbook for 
Dietetics. 

To illustrate and encourage such calculations the food values 
of typical cooked foods will be shown at intervals throughout 
this book and it is recommended that the laboratory work in 
cookery be made to include the accurate weighing of the fin- 
ished product and the calculation of its food value in as many 
cases as possible. 

For the sake of completeness and because of the im- 
portance now attached to these three elernents, the food 
values here given include data for calcium, phosphorus, and 
iron. When time is limited, the protein, fat, carbohy- 
drates, calories, and cost may be calculated without the ash 
constituents. 



20 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

EXAMPLES OF CALCULATED FOOD VALUES 
Apple Sauce 













H 












Materiax 


■< 




ii 


BE 




^6 


1 

s 





So 

(1,0 














u 










Apples 


3 


159 


.64 


■79 


22.58 


100 


.034 


.022 


■OS 


.0005 


Sugar . . . 


6 tbsp. 


8o.2 






80.2 


321 


.0106 








Water . 


ic. 




















Total cooked 


fc. 


239-2 


.64 


■ 79 


102.78 


421 


.0446 


.022 


■°S 


.0005 


loo-Calorie \ 
Portion' J 


3 tbsp. 


56.95 


•15 


.19 


24^47 


100 


.0106 


.005 


.012 


.0001 



Stewed Prunes 



Prunes . . 
Sugar . . . 
Water . . . 


25 
5>i tbsp. 

2C. 


226.8 
75 


4.08 




141.07 
75 


580 
300 


.06 
.ooS 


.116 


.464 


.0052 


Total cooked 

loo-Calorie \ 

Portion' J 


lie. 

3 prunes 
+ sirup 


538 
60.7 


4.08 
.46 


216.07 
24.42 


880 
100 


.068 
.008 


.116 
•°I3 


.464 
.052 


.0052 
.0006 



References 

Hausmann. Home Manufacture and Use of Unfermented Grape 

Juice. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' 

Bulletin, 644 (1915). 
Langworthy. Raisins, Figs and other Dried Fruits and Their 

Use. United States Department of Agriculture, Yearbook 

for 1912, pages 505-52^- 
Langworthy. Use of Fruits as Food. United States Department 

of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, No. 293 (1907). 

' -'Vlso called Standard Portion (S. P.) 



FRUITS 21 

Langworthy and Milner. Some Results Obtained in Studying 
Ripening Bananas with the Respiration Calorimeter. Year- 
book of U. S. Department of Agriculture for 1912. 

Milan and Gardner. Comparative Cooking Qualities of Some of 
the Common Varieties of Apples Grown in Oregon. Oregon 
Agricultural College Experiment Station, Bulletin No. 124. 

Morse. The Cold Storage of Apples. New Hampshire College 
Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin No. 93 (1902). 

Rose, Flora. Preservation of Food in the Home. Part i, Cornell 
Reading-courses. Food Series No. 4. 

Scott. Fruit Addition to the Diet of the Growing Child. Ameri- 
can Medicine, vol. 19, pages 416-420 (1913). 

Sherman. Food Products. 



CHAPTER III 
CANNING AND PRESERVING 

Fruit 

Fruit and vegetables may be preserved when in season for 
use out of season by the following methods : 

I. canning, various methods 2. preserving, various stages 

3. jelly making 4. pickling 

5. spicing 6. salting 

7. drying 

All fruits and vegetables are not prepared in the same way. 



Suitable for canning are 






a. Fruits 






pears 


plums 


strawberries 


peaches 


pineapple 


raspberries 


apricots 


cherries 


blueberries 


apples 


blackberries 




h. Vegetables 






peas 


carrots 


beans 


corn 


asparagus 
tomatoes 


beets 



Fruits suitable for preserving are : 

a. Preserve 

strawberries quince 

large currants grapes 

plums gooseberries 



blackberries 
cranberries 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 



23 



. Jam 

strawberries 
plums 
elderberries 

Marmalades 



grapes 

raspberries 

cranberries 



blackberries 
currants 



cranberry- 
grapefruit 
lemon 
quince 
orange 



apple 
grape 



apricot 

plums 

peaches 

apple — sweet, sour 

crabapple 

yellow tomato 

d. Butters 

crabapple 
quince 

e. " Honey " (so called) 
sweet apple lemon 
grapefruit yellow tomato 

/. Conserves 

plums, oranges, and lemon 
plums, lemon, raisins 
grapes, lemon 
raisins, rhubarb 
figs, rhubarb 
peach, lemon, orange 

nuts in combination with any of the above 

Fruits suitable for jelly making are : 

a. Very juicy fruits 

strawberries elderberries 

raspberries plums 

blackberries currants 

grapes, cultivated and wild 



qumce 
kumquat 



peach, currants, lemon 
pears, lemon, ginger root 
prunes, lemon, orange 
orange, grapefruit, lemon 
kumquat, orange 
cranberries, lemon, raisins 



24 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

b. Less juicy fruits 

peaches quince 

apricots cranberries 

apples — sweet, sour, crabapple 

Fruits suitable for pickling are : 

tomatoes — red, yellow peaches 

blackberries pears 

cucumbers peppers — red, green 

Vegetables suitable for pickling are : 

cauliflower beets 

cabbage onions 

Fruits suitable for spicing are : 

blackberries pears 

peaches red tomatoes 

Fruits suitable for salting are : 

cucumbers, large and small 



Fruits suitable for drying are 






currants 






apricots 


grapes 






plums 


peaches 






prunes 


pears 






cranberries 




apples — 


sweet, sour 


Fruits suitable for beverages 


are: 




grapes 






apples — sweet, sour 


currants 






cherries 


raspberries 






lemons 


elderberries 






. oranges 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 25 

Preservation of fruits is secured by : 

1. Heat and exclusion of air 
Ex. — canned peaches 

2. Exclusion of air but heat not necessary because the mate- 

rial itself is strongly acid. 
Ex. — canned tomato, canned rhubarb 

3. Strong acids. 

Ex. — pickled pears 

4. Strong brine 

Ex. — salted cucumbers ' 

5. Heavy solution of sugar. 

Ex. — preserves, jams, conserves, butters, honey, jellies. 

Relation to Microorganisms 

All the above methods of preserving fruits and vegetables 
depend upon either destroying, or preventing the action of 
microorganisms which would cause the food to ferment, decay, 
or become moldy. 

The microorganisms which thus spoU or injure food are cer- 
tain species of the three groups : 

a. Molds. 

b. Yeasts. 

c. Bacteria. 

Molds are seen often as yellow, green, or white growths, very 
beautiful in color and arrangement, upon lemons, oranges, 
bread, jams, jellies, and sirups. 

Some typical forms often found on food are : 

bread mold — Mucor stolonifer 

green cheese mold, or blue mold — PenicUlium glaucum 



26 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

mold of decaying vegetation : 

blue green — Aspergillus fumigatus 
yellow — Aspergillus flavescens 
black — Aspergillus niger. 

Yeasts cannot usually be seen without the microscope, but 
evidence of their work is shown by fermentation of fruit juices 
accompanied by bubbles of gas or a loud pop when a cork or 
cover is removed. 

Bacteria are all too small to be seen without a good micro- 
scope. The work of bacteria is shown generally by a disa- 
greeable sour taste often accompanied by an unpleasant odor 
with or without an evolution of gas. 

The following experiments will illustrate the work of molds, 
yeasts, and bacteria, but the detailed study of these organisms 
and the changes which they bring about in food materials is a 
science in itself and one of the greatest interest and importance 
to all students of foods and cookery. The reading and study 
of Buchanan's Household Bacteriology (which treats of the 
yeasts and molds as well as the bacteria of economic impor- 
tance) is especially recommended. 

EXPERIMENTS 

24. — Collection of mold for study. 

a. Expose a piece of moist bread to the air of the room for 
about lo minutes. Keep in a moist chamber and watch for the 
development of mold. A jelly glass inverted over the bread on a 
plate wiU do for the glass chamber. 

h. Expose a dish containing a freshly opened baked potato 
to the air of the room for about lo minutes. Cover ; keep in locker 
and watch for the development of mold. 

c. Bring into the laboratory anything that you can find on 
which mold is growing. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 27 

25. — Description of mold. Describe briefly the general appearance 
of these various forms under a small magnifying glass (15 diam.) 
or under a dissecting microscope (15 diam.). 

Describe briefly the naked eye appearance of these various molds 
that appear in the laboratory. 

26. — Mold on bread. Place several slices of bread under a beU 
glass or any dish that will protect it from evaporation. Battery 
jars, large beakers, or even common bowls will answer. Moisten the 
bread with water and put aside in a warm place (8o°-go° F.). After 
two or three days the bread will usually show signs of white mold. 
Allow the mold to grow until some color appears and then determine, 
if possible, whether there are more than one species of mold on the 
bread. 

27. — Molds on different foods. Under separate bell glasses place 
bits of cheese, some pieces of lemon, and a bit of banana. Each of 
these should be moist. Cover and puL aside dish as in the last experi- 
ment. Molds will grow in a few days, but probably different spe- 
cies will grow upon the different materials. Compare the molds and 
determine how many kinds can be seen. 

23. — Experiment to show the mycelium. Place a little fruit juice, 
such as may be obtained from canned fruit, in two tubes or, in 
homceopathic vials and drop a few mold spores from the last experi- 
ment, or a little dust from the floor upon the surface of the liquid. 
Set aside to grow and notice how the molds spread and send fine 
threads into the liquid. Later notice that colored masses of spores 
grow in the air upon the surface of the liquid but not in the liquid 
below. 

29. — Spores. After the molds of the previous experiments have 
begun to produce spores, as shown by the appearance of some color, 
remove a little spore material from the surface with a knife blade or 
a platiniun wire and examine under a microscope. For this purpose 
a compound microscope is necessary, since the spores are very small. 

30. — Growth of mold from spores. Moisten a bit of bread and 
transfer with a platinum wire a little bit of the spore mass from a 
vigorously growing mold to the surface of the bread. Cover with 



28 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

a bell glass and set aside for growth. Examine every day and note 
that molds start from the points where the bread was inoculated with 
the mold spores. 

31. — Mold spores in dust. Melt gelatin i in 7 prepared test tubes, 
and pour it from each into sterilized petri dishes. Replace the cover 
upon the dish and allow the gelatin to harden. Label the petri 
dishes A, B, C, D, E, F, and G. Proceed as follows: 

A. Sweep a little dust from the floor and scatter over the 
prepared gelatin in A. Replace the cover and allow the dish to re- 
main in a cupboard until molds begin to grow. Note the number of 
hours or days until a growth appears. Obtain dust from the follow- 
ing sources and proceed as in A. 

B. Dust from a crack in the flour. 

C. Shake a dry duster over the gelatin. 

D. Shake a damp duster over the gelatin. 

E. Shake the hem of a skirt over the gelatin. 

F. Expose a plate of gelatin to the air of the room while 
sweeping. 

G. Expose a plate of gelatin to the air of the room 2 hours 
after sweeping and dusting thoroughly. 

Note : The above experiments may be performed using moist bread instead 
of petri dishes of gelatin, but the results are not as impressive. 
Bread can be used, however, if gelatin is not at hand. 

32. — The effect of drying. Place under separate bell glass two 
slices of bread, one of which is damp, either naturally or slightly 

^Preparation of gelatin culture media: To 100 grams of gelatin add 900 cc. of 
water and about 5 grams of Liebig's Extract of Beef and cook in double boiler for 
5 minutes. While still hot filter the material through absorbent cotton. In using 
absorbent cotton for this purpose, a large funnel should be used and the absorbent 
cotton wet with hot water, placed in it. The liquid is poured into the cotton and it 
will run through readily, coming out as a tolerably dear solution. Some of the fil- 
tered jelly is to be placed in sterilized flasks and some in test tubes, about 10 cc. in 
each. Plug the flasks and test tubes with cotton and steam the jelly In a common 
steamer for 30 minutes. At the end of 24 hours it should again be placed in the 
steamer and steamed for half an hour. Once more set it aside for 24 hours and upon 
the third day steam it again for half an hour and cool. Material thus prepared 
should give a clear, slightly brownish jelly, which, if properly sterilized, will keep 
indefinitely. It should be acid to litmus paper. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 29 

moistened with water, and the other dried. Leave for two or three 
days and notice the effect of drying in preventing the growth of 
molds. If one slice remains dry, no molds will grow upon it though 
the other soon becomes covered. 

33. — The effect of boiling temperature. In each of two test tubes 
of gelatin place a small quantity of mold spores. Melt the gelatin 
in the tubes at as low a heat as will melt it. Pour the contents of 
one tube into a petri dish and cover at once. Place the other tube in 
a beaker of boiling water and allow the water to boil briskly for half 
an hour, after which the gelatin is to be poured into a petri dish and 
treated like that in the first tube. Set both dishes aside for mold 
growth and examine at intervals for several days, noticing whether 
molds develop in both dishes or only in the first. If they grow in 
both, note the relative abundance in the two dishes. 

34. — Effect of low temperature. Prepare two plates of hardened 
gelatin and sow mold spores upon the surface of each. Leave one 
in the ordinary room temperature and place the other in an ice chest 
or some other place where the temperature is low. Compare day by 
day, and determine the effect of low temperature in checking or 
stopping mold growth. Do any molds grow upon the dish placed 
in the ice chest ? 

35. — Effect of air currents. Moisten a slice of bread and sow 
mold spores upon it, or allow it to mold spontaneously under a bell 
glass. After it shows a luxuriant growth of mold, remove the bell 
glass and leave it exposed to brisk currents of the air. Notice how 
the growth of the mold ceases and the dehcate mycelium flattens 
down close to the bread. 

36. — Molds in cheese. Obtain a bit of Roquefort cheese. Cut 
it open and remove a bit of the green mass in the middle by means 
of a knife point or platinum wire. Sow this substance upon the 
surface of a dish of hardened gelatin and set aside for growth. 
After two or three days, the molds will begin to develop and may 
be studied with a microscope. When they begin to produce spores, 
they should, if possible, be studied sufficiently to determine the 
species. 



30 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

EXPERIMENTS ILLUSTRATING THE ACTION OF 
BACTERIA 

37. — Putrefaction. 

Place in a series of test tubes a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h, with a little cold 
water, the following : 

a — a smaU piece of chopped raw meat 

b — a small amount of white of egg 

c — J tsp. bread flour 

d — J tsp. cornstarch 

e — I tsp. cane sugar 

/ — a small amount of ground dried peas 

g — J tsp. melted butter 

h — I tsp. olive oil. 

Cover each test tube with a piece of cheesecloth or stop with cotton. 

Place all the test tubes together in a warm place for three days and 
watch to determine which will putrefy and in what order. 

Putrefaction can be detected by the disagreeable odor and slimy 
condition of the water. 

38. — Effect of moisture. Place a small amount of the following 
foods in dry test tubes a, b, c, d, e, f. 

In a duplicate series place the same foods, but moisten each with 
water. 

Allow all to remain in a warm place and compare at the end of 3 
days. 

Notice the effect of the water in evidently promoting putrefaction. 

Foods — dry and wet. 
a — dried crushed peas. 
b — oatmeal 
c — bread 

d — entire wheat flour 
e — bread flour 
/ — graham cracker 

39. — Effect of temperature. Place bits of meat with a little water 
in three test tubes. Put the first tube in an ice chest, the second in 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 31 

ordinary room temperature, and the third close to a stove or radiator 
where the temperature is high. Notice the rapidity of putrefaction 
in each case. 

40. — Effect of boiling. Chop finely some raw beef and place it in 
water, warming slightly, but not heating it to more than 130° F. 
Divide into two parts, place each in a test tube, setting one aside 
without further treatment, but bringing the other to a brisk boil for 
a moment and then setting beside the first. At the end of twenty- 
four hours, examine to determine if putrefaction has occurred. 

Effect of freezing. A visit to a cold storage plant with subse- 
quent discussions will be more beneficial than an experiment to show 
the effect of freezing upon bacteria. 

EXPERIMENTS ILLUSTRATING YEASTS AS RELATED 
TO FRUITS AND SIRUPS 

41. — Fermentation of cider. Grind up a few apples and strain 
the juice from the same by squeezing through cheesecloth. Collect 
the juice in test tubes and allow it to stand for a few days. A fer- 
mentation soon appears and the juice turns to cider. Examine the 
sediment with a microscope and detect the presence of yeast. Close 
up the tube with a cotton plug and leave it for a number of weeks, 
determining whether it subsequently becomes acid by the develop- 
ment of acetic acid. 

42. — Fermentation of grape juice. Proceed as above, using 
grapes instead of apples. The juice wiU become wine if fermenta- 
tion occurs properly. 

43. — Effect of temperature. Prepare 3 tubes with molasses and 
water as above described and inoculate each with 3 drops of yeast 
in water. Place one tube in a refrigerator, a second in a moderately 
warm temperature, above 70° F., and a third in a warmer place, 
near a stove or radiator (temp, about 90° F.). Compare the three at 
the end of three, six, and twenty-four hours, and note the effect of 
temperature upon growth. 

44. — Effect of light. Prepare two tubes in the same way and set 
one in a bright light and the other in a dark place. Keep both tubes 



32 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

at the same temperature and determine whether Kght has any effect 
upon the rapidity of growth. 

46. — Make a small cavity in the surface of a glass of jelly. 

Place a drop of fermented grape juice in the cavity, replace the 
paraffin and tin covers, and allow the jeUy to remain in a dark cup- 
board. 

Examine after three days and notice the changes which have 
occurred in : 

1 . taste 

2. odor 

3. consistency 

46. — a. AUow jelly to remain uncovered for a few minutes after 
it has cooled. Place the tin cover on jelly glass and set aside in 
warm, dark place. 

b. Examine daily for growths which wiU soon appear. 

c. Try to determine what kinds of mold appear.' 

d. What is the coral pink mass which will probably appear? 

e. Allow the action of microorganisms to continue until 
the jelly becomes semi-hquid. Place it in a bottle and cork tightly. 

/. Keep the bottle in a warm place and notice the changes 
taking place. 

g. What are the bubbles and froth which appear when the 
cork is removed? 

h. What microorganisms other than molds have been at 
work? 

47. — a. Partly fill a sterile jar a with hot peaches and sirup just 
ready for canning. Repeat in a second jar b. 

b. Adjust the rubber band and seal a to keep out the air. 
Omit the rubber band on b, but clamp down the cover. 

c. Place a and b together with a jar filled and sealed and , 
containing no air bubbles in a warm, dark place. Compare daily for 
signs of the action of microorganisms. 

' An idea of the probable kind may be obtained by noting color and general 
appearance and comparing with what has already been learned. For actual iden- 
tification the "key" at the back of Buchanan's Household Bacteriology will be found 
most useful. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING ^^ 

d. Compare a and b. Why should a show molds when the 
outside air is excluded? 

e. Why does no change occur in the third jar ? 

48.- — From these experiments what conclusions do you make as 
to: 

a. The covering of jelly or jams with hot paraffin or paper 
wet in alcohol. 

b. The exclusion of air or air bubbles from a canned mixture. 

c. The rate of action of microorganisms in a solution as jam 
or jelly compared with that in a sirup as canned peaches. 

d. In what way can sugar in large amounts act as a partial 
preservative of fruits ? 

Definitions 

As usage differs somewhat the following definitions are given to 
show the sense in which each of the terms is used in this book- 
Canned food — food products preserved in air-tight containers with 
or without heat and addition of sugar or acid. 

Preserves — whole fruit or large pieces of fruit in a heavy solution 
of sugar. 

Jams — fruit which is finely divided or reduced to a pulp in a 
heavy solution of sugar. 

Marmalades — fruit pulp in a finely divided condition to which 
may be added various spices and fruit flavors, together with a smaller 
amount of sugar than we find in jams. 

Butters — fruit pulp very finely mashed, spiced, and often flavored 
with lemon. 

" Honey " — fruit sirup with dense solution of sugar but still 
liquid. 

Conserves — mixtures of fruit more or less finely divided in a 
fairly heavy solution of sugar, semi-liquid. 

Juices — fruit juices with or without sugar, lemon, or other flavoring. 

Utensils necessary in Preserving Fruits 

scales 

measuring cup, any material not tin 

saucepan, any material not tin 



34 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

new rubbers to fit jars 

perfect covers for jars, — tin, glass 

wooden spoon 

silver knife for removing skins. 

silver fork for removing bubbles from inside of jar 

jelly bag of heavy material or several thicknesses of cheesecloth 

containers for product 



glass jars 


stone crocks 


jelly glasses 


porcelain jars 




glass bottles 


paraflnn 




corks 





General Directions 

I. — Canning without sugar. 

a. Wash the jars and place them together with their covers 
in cold or slightly warm water. Bring to the boiling point and allow 
them to boil for 20 minutes. Place a wooden rack in kettle before 
putting in jars. 

h. Wash and prepare the fruit or vegetable in the desired 
shape for canning. 

c. Place the prepared fruit in the sterile jars ; do not wipe 
the jars on the inside. Arrange the cover but do not seal ; place the 
jars in warm water and boil or steam the proper length of tiir.e for 
the given fruit or vegetables (see recipe) . 

II. — Canning with sugar. 

a. Use one third as much sugar as fruit (by weight). 
h. Use 4 c. of water to each lb. of sugar. 

c. Prepare a sirup of the sugar and water by dissolving the 
sugar in the water and boiling the solution one minute. 

d. Canning may be accomplished by the following : 

1 a. Place the prepared fruit in sterile jars, covering fruit 
with the sirup, adjust the cover and steam or boil the required 
length of time for each fruit, 

2 a. Allow the prepared fruit to boil in the sirup until 
pulp is soft. Place fruit in sterile jars as soon as cooked, cover with 
the sirup, remove the air bubbles, cover and seal air-tight. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 35 

III. — Preserving. 

1. Preserves 

a. Three fourths as much sugar by weight as fruit 
measured by weight. 

b. To each pound of sugar add i c. of water. 

c. Heat water and prepared fruit to the boiling point, 
allow them to boil one minute. 

d. Add the sugar and continue the boiling until the 
sirup is thick. 

2. Jams 

a. Three fourths by weight as much sugar as fruit 
measured by weight. 

b. 2 c. of water to each pound of sugar. 

c. Boil prepared fruit and water together for 5 min- 
utes. Add the sugar and continue cooking until the sirup jellies. 

Note : Fruits with large seeds should be put through the colander after 
boiling five minutes and before the sugar is added. Rub the 
pulp through carefully, but keep back the seeds. 



Marmalades (in general) 

a. One half by weight as much sugar as fruit measured 



by weight. 



b. Three c. of water to each pound of sugar. 

c. Boil fruit until soft enough to be put through a 
colander, reduce to a pulp, add the sugar, and cook until mixture is 
very thick. 

4. Butters 

Practically the same as marmalade. Do not aUow the 
mixture to become as dense as marmalade. 

5. Honey 
special recipes 

6. Conserves 
special recipes 

7. Jellies — 2 methods 

a. Wash and prepare the fruit for cooking, allow it to 
cook in its own juice until very soft. 



36 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

b. Strain the juice through a jelly bag (without 
squeezing). 

c. Measure or weigh the juice and add an equal amount 
of sugar or 

a' Allow the fruit to cook in water sufficient to keep 
the pulp from sticking to bottom of saucepan or burning. 

b' Strain the pulp through jeDy bag, measure the 
juice, and add sugar in the proportion of f as much sugar as juice. 
Note : The less juicy fruits need to have water added when first cooking. 

8. Fruit juices 

a. Proceed as for jelly until the fruit juice is extracted. 
Turn into sterile bottles, seal air-tight immediately. 
Note : Sugar may be added and sirup boiled 2 minutes before sealing. 
2 tbsp. sugar 
I qt. fruit sirup 

General Directions for Canning and Preserving 

Fruit should be fresh, firm, and not over-sized. 

Sterilize jars by washing thoroughly, then placing in a pan of cold 
water and heating gradually to the boiling point. Remove from 
water as needed and turn upside down to drain before filling with fruit. 

Do not dry inside of jars before filling. 

Sterilize rubbers by dipping in boiling water. New rubbers must 
be used each year. 

When cans are filled and sealed, turn upside down and let stand 
for a short time to be sure they are air-tight. If not, sirup wUl run out. 

If necessary to change fruit from one can to another, always re- 
heat mixture. 

When preparing jellies, jams, or marmalades, sterilize jars as in 
canning but let dry before filling. 

Always seal jellies, jams, and marmalades with paraffin when mix- 
ture is cold and cover paraffin with tin to protect from mice. 

When boiling any fruit or sirup, never allow it to boil vigorously. 
Always boil it gently that sirup may be clear. 

Note ; Paraflin may be washed, dried, and used again after being removed 
from top of jar. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 37 

,. Canned Peaches I 

Ingrements : 

I c. sugar I qt. peaches 

I c. water 
Method : 

Prepare sirup by boiling sugar and water s minutes. Wipe peaches 
and put in boiling water long enough to easily loosen skins. Remove 
skins with silver knife. Cut in halves, if large, and remove stones ; 
if small, may be left whole. Pack carefully in sterilized jars, but do 
not crush. Fill can with sirup, adjust covers loosely, and put on a 
rack in a covered pan with water up to the neck of the jars. Steam 
20 minutes, or until soft. Remove jars, and fill to overflowing with 
sirup or boDing water and adjust rubbers and tops quickly. 

One or two stones may be left in each jar for flavor. 

,, , , Canned Peaches II 

Method : 

Weigh fruit after peeling. Allow | its weight in sugar and 25 or 
3 c. water to each pound of sugar. Make a sirup of sugar and water 
by boiling fifteen minutes and cook fruit in it — a small quantity at a 
time. FiU jars with fruit and sirup, letting the sirup overflow. 
Put on steriUzed rubbers, adjust covers, and seal. 

Canned Tomatoes 
Method I : 

Wipe tomatoes, cover with boiling water, and let stand until skins 
may be easily removed, but not long enough to allow the fruit to 
become soft. Remove skins, cut fruit in pieces, and cook without 
adding water imtil thoroughly scalded, skimming often during the 
cooking. Fill sterilized jars with tomatoes and liquid, adjust rubbers 
and covers, and seal at once. 

Method II: 

Sterilize jars. Wash tomatoes and plunge into boiling water to 
loosen skins. 

Place tomatoes in jars, adding i tsp. salt to i qt. of the fruit. Ad- 
just covers without rubbers, place on a rack with enough water to 



3o LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

come to neck of jars. Bring to boiling point and boU for 20-30 
minutes. Remove jars, fill to overflowing with hot stewed tomatoes or 
boiling water/ adjust rubbers and covers, and seal. Be careful to 
have no seeds under the rubbers. 



Grape Juice I 

Ingrements : 

10 lbs. grapes (Concord) 2 qts. water 

2 lbs. sugar 
Method : 

Wash the grapes and cook them in water until the skins are soft. 
Strain the pulp and liquid through a wet jeUy bag. Reheat the 
juice and add the sugar and allow sirup to boil two minutes. Turn 
into hot sterUe bottles, cork, and seal with parafiin or equal parts of 
shoemakers' wax and resin. 

Grape Juice II 

8 lbs. grapes (Niagara) i qt. water 

J lb. sugar 
Method : 

Wash the grapes and cook in one quart of water until the skins are 
soft. Strain the pulp and juice through a wet jeUy bag. Add the 
sugar and boil the juice two minutes. Turn into hot sterile jars, 
cork, and seal. 

Raspberry Vinegar 

Ingredients : 

3 pts. raspberries t pt. cider vinegar 

I pt. juice to I lb. sugar 

Method : 

Prepare the berries, cover with the vinegar, and allow them to stand 
overnight. Strain fruit and liquid through a wet jelly bag and boil 
the sirup fifteen minutes. Add the sugar and boil five minutes. 
Turn into hot sterile bottles, cork, and seal. 

' Addition of water is permissible only when canning for home use. Under the 
regulations for the enforcement of the National Food and Drugs Act commercial 
canned tomatoes must not contain added water. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 39 

Jelly 
See general directions. 

Jams, Preserves, Marmalade 

See general directions. 

Grapefruit Marmalade 

Ingrements : 

2 oranges 2 lemons 

2 grapefruit sugar 

water 
Method : 

Scrub the fruit with a brush thoroughly. Remove the peel and 
cook the grapefruit rind in several waters until the inside white is 
soft. Remove this with a spoon. Slice the rinds of all three fruits 
in very fine shreds. Slice the fruit pulp in thin slices, removing all 
seeds, as these give a bitter taste to the marmalade. Weigh the pulp 
and sliced rinds. Calculate the sugar according to general directions. 
Cook the p;ilp in a large quantity of water until the rinds have be- 
come almost clear. This may be done by continuous boiling or by 
boiling on consecutive days, but will probably take three hours. 
Measure the liquid and add more water to bring it up to the amount 
required for the sugar to be used (see general directions). Add the 
sugar and allow sirup and pulp to boil gently until mixture will 
jelly slightly. Turn into sterile jars, cool, seal with hot paraffin, 
cover with tin covers. 

Note : The sugar must be added last as long boiling reduces the sweetness 
and changes the color to a caramel brown. Why? 

Yellow Tomato Marmalade 

Ingredients : 

7 lbs. ripe yellow tomatoes s l^is. granulated sugar 

7 lemons 
Method : 

Weigh tomatoes after peeling. Slice yellow skins of lemon in 
thin pieces. Discard white skin and cut pulp in small pieces. BoU 
until the sirup is thick and jellylike. 



40 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 


Spiced Grapes 




6 lbs. grapes 


15 c. vinegar 


cinnamon 


3 lbs. sugar 
Method : 


I c. mixed spice 


cloves 
allspice 



Wash grapes and remove from stems. Put pulp into saucepan 
(save the skins). Cook pulp until seeds can be removed. Turn 
into colander and press pulp through, add skins and other ingredients 
and cook until skins are soft and mixture thick and jeUyKke. 



Gingered Pears I 

Ingredients : 

4 lbs. pears cut in thin slices 3 lbs. sugar 
2 lemons 5 lb. green ginger root 

I qt. water 
Method : 

Cook pears, lemons cut in fine slices, and chopped ginger root untU 
the fruit is almost transparent. Add the sugar and boU gently until 
the sirup jellies and fruit is clear and transparent. 



Gingered Pears U 



3 lb. crystallized ginger 
3 lemons 



Ingredients: 

8 lbs. pears (Seckel) 
4 lbs. sugar 

Method: 

Wash, core, and slice the pears in thick pieces. Add the sugar and 
crystallized ginger cut in small pieces. AUow the mixture to stand 
24 hours. Add lemon, sliced very thin, and cook mixture until sirup 
is thick and jellylike. Serve with ice cream. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 41 

Rhubarb Conservs I 

Ingredtents : 

S lbs. rhubarb 4 lbs. sugar 

4 oranges 3 qts. water 

Method: 

Wash and cut the rhubarb into one-half inch pieces. Scrub the 
oranges, slice through the rind into very thin sections, being careful 
to remove aU seeds. Cook the rhubarb and sliced orange together 
for IS minutes, adding a very little water if necessary to prevent the 
fruit from burning. 

Add the 3 qts. water and 4 lbs. sugar and allow the mixture to 
boil gently until sirup is thick and jellylike. 

Rhubarb Conserve II 

Ingredtents: 

4 lbs. rhubarb i lemon 

I lb. raisins 2 oranges 

4 lbs. sugar 
Method : 

Wash and cut rhubarb into one-half inch pieces. Boil rhubarb, 
raisins, and sugar gently 20 minutes, add juice of oranges and lemon 
and the rind of the orange. BoU until sirup is thick and jellylike. 

Apricot Conserve 
Ingredients: 

I lb. dried apricots 3 pineapples 

15 qts. water i c. Sultana raisins 

sugar I c. water 

Method: 

Wash the apricots and soak them in cold water overnight. Using 
this same water, cook them until soft. Press pulp through a colander. 
Shred the pineapple and cook in a small quantity of water until 
soft. Combine the cooked fruits and raisins. Weigh and add half 
as much sugar. Add i c. water and cook until sirup is thick and 
jellylike. 



42 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Pineapple and Cherry Preserves 

Ingredients : 

I lb. pineapple ii lb. sugar 

I lb. white cherries i c. water 

Method: 

Cut the pineapple in thin slices. Wash and stone the cherries and 
add the pineapple. Add the sugar and cook until mixture is thick 
and sirup is jeUylike. 

Grape Conserve 

Ingredients : 

9 lbs. grapes \ lb. walnuts 

I lb. raisins 4 lbs. sugar 

Method : 

Boil skins until tender. Heat pulp until seeds can be easily re- 
moved. Add raisins to skins and pulp and boU until consistency of 
marmalade. Add nuts five minutes before removing from fire. 

Plum Conserve 

Ingredients : 

3 lbs. pitted plums i lb. walnuts 

1 lb. raisins 3 oranges 

3 lbs. sugar 

Method : 

Wash and cut plums in pieces. Add chopped raisins, and oranges, 
and boU until the consistency of marmalade. Add nuts five minutes 
before removing from fire. 

Cherry Conserve 

Ingredients : 

2 qts. currants i qt. sour cherries 

2 qts. red raspberries i lb. wahiut meats 

2 qts. sugar 
Method : 

Stem the currants, pit cherries, and boil all ingredients except nuts 
until consistency of marmalade. Add nuts five minutes before re- 
moving from fire. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 43 

Mustard Pickle 

Ingredients : 

I qt. cucumbers sliced | c. salt 

I qt. small cucumbers 2 qts. vinegar 

1 qt. small onions 3 c. brown sugar 

2 heads cauliflower i c. flour 

I green pepper 2 tbsp. mustard 

2 tbsp. turmeric 
Method: 

Cover the vegetables with salted water and let stand overnight. 
In the morning, cook in the same water until tender, then drain. 
Make a paste by cooking together the other ingredients, then 
add the drained vegetables. When sufficiently thick, put in wide- 
mouthed sterilized jars or bottles. 

Chili Sauce 

12 ripe tomatoes 2 c. vinegar 

I pepper, finely chopped 3 tbsp. sugar 

I onion i tbsp. salt 

2 tsp. each, cloves, cinnamon, allspice. 
Method: 

Cook I hour or untU mixture is reduced \. 

Sweet Pickle 

Ingredients : 

7 lbs. fruit 1 qt. vinegar 

3I lbs. sugar 2 oz. cloves 

2 oz. cinnamon 
Method: 

Make a sirup and cook fruit in it until soft. Remove the fruit 
with a perforated spoon. Boil down the sirup and pour over the 
fruit in stone or glass jars. 

Note : Crabapples, peaches, pears, or Seckel pears may be used. 



44 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Pickled Tomatoes 

Ingredients : 

1 pk. green tomatoes 2^ qts. vinegar 

1 c. salt 2 lbs. brown sugar 

2 qts. vinegar j lb. white mustard seed 

1 qt. water 

2 tbsp. each of cloves, cinnamon, ginger, black pepper. 

Method : 

Cut the tomatoes in one-fourth inch slices, and let stand over- 
night with one cup of salt. In the morning, drain and add two 
quarts of vinegar and one quart of water. Boil fifteen minutes, then 
drain. 

Take two and one half quarts of vinegar, brown sugar, mustard 
seed, and spices. BoU tomatoes in this fifteen minutes. Then turn 
all into a stone jar. 

Cucumber Pickle 

Ingredients : 

100 medium cucumbers \ c. black mustard seed 

I qt. onions 5 c. white mustard seed 

1 c. olive oil 
Method : 

Wash, peel, and slice the vegetables. Cover with brine (i c. salt 
and 4 qts. boiling water), let stand 2 hours and drain. 

Mix oil and mustard seed and cover with hot vinegar. Add to 
the vegetables. Seal in sterilized cans. 

Red Pepper Pickle 

Ingredients : 

5 pk. red peppers i qt. vinegar 

boiling water 2 c. sugar 

Method : 

Wash peppers, remove seeds, and shred. Cover with boiling 
water for 5 minutes. Drain, pack in sterilized jars, and cover with a 
sirup made of the vinegar and sugar. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 45 

Score Card 

Canned Fruits 

General appearance 15 

Container (5) 
Color (10) 

Fruit 50 

Whole (5) 

Cooked (20) 
Flavor (25) 

Sirup 35 

Clearness (10) 
Flavor (15) 

Density (10) 

100 

Preserves 

General appearance 30 

Container (10) 
Color (20) 

Mixture 70 

Consistency (15) 

Flavor (40) 

Density (15) 

100 

References 
Canning and Preserving 

Adams and Sandster. Practical Directions for Preserving Native 

Fruits and Vegetables. University of Wisconsin, Agricultural 

Experiment Station, Bulletin No. 136 (1906). 
Bitting. The Canning of Foods. United States Department of 

Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin No. 151 (1912). 
BlREAzeale. Canning of Vegetables in the Home. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, 359 (1910). 
Buchanan. Household Bacteriology. 



46 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

CoRBETT. Canned Foods, Fruits, and Vegetables. Teachers Col- 
lege Bulletin, Fourth Series No. 12, February 15, 1913. 

GOLDTHWAITE. Principles of Jelly Making. University of Illi- 
nois, Bulletin No. 34 (1912). 

GoLDTHWAiTE. Chemistry and Physics of Jelly-making. Journal 
of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, vol. i, pages 333- 
340; vol. 2, pages 457-462 (1909-1910). 

Gould and Retcher. Canning Peaches on the Farm. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, No. 426 
(1910). 

Hatton and Holt. Canning of Fruits and Vegetables. Georgia 
State College of Agriculture, Bulletin No. 11. 

Hausmann. Home Manufacture and Use of Unfermented Grape 
Juice. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' 
Bulletin, No. 175 (1903). 

KiNNE and Cooley. Foods and Household Management. 

Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

Nye and Austin. A Canning Business for the Farm Home. Cor- 
nell University Bulletin, vol. 2, No. 47. 

Parloa. Canned Fruit, Preserves, and Jellies. United States 
Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, 203 (1905). 

Rose. The Preservation of Food in the Home. Cornell University 
Bulletin, vol. i No. 17. 

Sherman. Food Products. 

Wiley. Foods and their Adulteration. 



CHAPTER IV 
CEREALS 

Cereals and the various products made from grains form 
one of the most important foods for man. For the majority 
of people they furnish more nutriment than does any other 
class of food materials. Cereals have been defined as grasses,^ 
the grains of which are used for food. There are on the market 
many cereal preparations, cooked or uncooked, but these are 
made from a limited number of cereal grains and the properties 
of each preparation are dependent upon those of the cereal from 
which it is derived. ^ 

A cereal grain is a kernel ^ containing a relatively small germ 
rich in protein and fat, and a relatively large endosperm con- 
taining much starch, little fat, and a moderate amount of pro- 
tein, the whole inclosed in a fibrous covering called the bran. 
The bran consists of several layers, the outermost being of little 
food value, while the " aleurone layer " (which lies between the 
fibrous covering and the starchy interior but is apt to be re- 
jected with the bran in ordinary milling processes) is rich in 
protein and in phosphorus, calcium, and iron compounds of 
much value in nutrition. A " whole grain " product is there- 
fore a more complete food than the " finer " product made 
from the endosperm only, but the latter (largely because it is 
poor in protein, fat, and ash constituents) is apt to keep longer 
than the former. 

^ Since a few of the edible grains, such as buckwheat, are seeds of plants not be- 
longing to the grass family, the term "grains" is somewhat broader than " cereals." 

2 See Sherman's Food Products, pages 270-272, for description and illustra- 
tions of the structure of the wheat kernel. 

47 



48 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

The percentage composition of the different grains and of the 
various products manufactured from them may be found in 
Bulletin 28, Office of Experiment Stations, U. S. Department of 
Agriculture, or in Sherman's Food Products, Chapter VIII. 

How to purchase cereals: Cereals do not keep well after being 
opened, as parasites are apt to appear. Therefore, purchase a small 
stock at a time. Cereals in bulk are cheaper, but not always as clean 
as those sold in packages. Grocers should be encouraged to keep 
bulk cereals in bins or other containers which are dust-proof and 
insect-proof. 

Reasons for cooking cereals : 

1. Softens the cellulose. 

2. Bursts the starch grains. 

3. Increases the palatability. 

Methods of cooking : 
Boiling in water or milk ; example, rice. 
Steaming in water or milk ; example, corn meal. 
Heat in the oven; example, corn flakes. 
Toast ; example, shredded wheat. 

Methods of serving : 
Hot. Cold. 

Puddings. Thickening for croquettes. 
Fritters. Browned Slices. 

Variations in serving : 

Cream and sugar. Cream. 

Butter and sugar. Butter. 

Prune sauce. Apple sauce or sirup. 

Maple sugar. Corn sirup. 

Fresh fruit. Dried fruit. 

Creamed beef. Pudding sauce. 
Differences in consistency: 

Breakfast cereal. Mush. 

Porridge. Gruel. 

Cereal water. 



CEREALS 49 

EXPERIMENTS 

49. — Make the following tests with iodine. See page 13. 

5 tsp. dry cornstarch 

5 tsp. moist cornsta,rch 

5 tsp. cooked cornstarch 
Observe change in color of iodine. 

60. — Make the same test with iodine, using the following cereals, 
cooked, moist, raw : 

rice cream of wheat 

corn meal wheat flour 

shredded wheat force 

51. — Wash a little rice and test the water with iodine. See page 
13. Result? Why do you observe a change? 

52. — Collect a little saliva in test tubes. Add to this small 
amounts of the cooked and uncooked cereal, let stand in warm water 
ten minutes. Test part with iodine and part with Fehling-Benedict 
solution (page 13). Conclusion? 

53. — We have shown that starch is present in large quantities ; 
we wiU now compare the thickening qualities of the following cereals : 

corn meal rolled oats 

cream of wheat rice 

Use J c. each of the above cereals. Mix each in saucepans 
of uniform size and shape with : 

a. I c. cold water. Bring to boiling point and boil 15 minutes. 
h. 1 c. boUing water. Boil 15 minutes. 

c. In each case how much water must be added to prevent 
burning and to reduce to the consistency of breakfast cereal ? 

d. What individual variations in the thoroughness of cook- 
ing appear at the end of the 15 minutes? 

e. Is it best to start cereals cooking in boiling or cold water ? 
/. Make a table of the amount of water required with each 

of the cereals used. Reduce it in each case by \ and again cook j c. 
of the cereals, this time using a double boiler. 

E 



50 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

g. Why was the amount of water reduced ? 

h. Compare the products when saucepan and double boiler 
are used. 

i. What advantages has the double boiler? 

54. — When shoiild salt be added to the cereal? 

a. Measure two portions of rice, A and B, j c. in each 
portion. 

b. Steam A in double boUer, adding salt to the rice as 
usual. 

c. Steam B in double boQer, salting rice as in A, but also 
adding rock salt to the water in lower part, in the proportion of 2 
tbsp. to I c. water. Note the temperature of the water in lower 
part of double boUer in each case. 

d. Compare the length of time required for the cooking of 
the rice in each case. How do you explain the difference? 

55. — a. Steam the following cereals, using milk as compared with 
water for the liquid : 

milk water 

cream of wheat cream of wheat 

oatmeal oatmeal 

corn meal corn meal 

rice rice 

b. Compare as to taste, color. WTiat possible objection could 
be raised to the long cooking of milk when used as a liquid with 
cereals ? Is it a vital objection ? 

56. — a. Use \ c. rolled oats plus the requisite amoimt of water for 
breakfast cereal as decided upon in Expt. 53 /. 

Cook 5 the amount of oatmeal and water in the fireless 
cooker. 

Cook the other half in the pressure cooker. 

b. Note the length of time required in each case to cook 
the cereal. 

Explain the differences in length of time. 

c. What is the consistency of the cereal? Why? 



CEREALS 



SI 



57. — Reduce the amount of water by j and cook the cereal in both 
pressure and fireless cooker. Note the consistency of this mixture. 

58. — Repeat until the proper amount of water per unit of cereal 
is determined for each cooker. 

59. — Determine the proper amount of water to be used per unit of : 

corn meal rice 

cream of wheat malt 

60. — Compute the economy in time, fuel, and labor when the pres- 
sure and fireless cookers are used. 

61. — Compute the length of time in which each cooker would pay 
for itself in the cost of fuel saved. 

Compare the results obtained in the above experiments with the 
corresponding data in the following tabular summary and discuss any 
points which may not seem to agree. 

The Cooking of Cereals (Tabular Summary) 



CSKEAI. 


Amount 

OF 

Water 


Salt 


Time 


I c. rolled oats ... . . . 

I c. coarse oatmeal 

I c. granular cereals (except corn meal) 
I c. corn meal . . .... 

I c. rice — boiled . ... 

I c. rice — steamed . . 


3 c. 
■"4C. 
4-6 c. 
6 c. 
8 c. 

2 C. 


I tsp. 
I tsp. 
I tsp. 
T tsp. 
T tsp. 
T tsp. 


30-60 minutes 
3 hours or more 
30-60 minutes 
60 minutes 
20-30 minutes 
I hour or more 



General rules. Remove any foreign substances from cereal. A 
fireless cooker is efficient, but a double boiler is the best utensil for 
cooking cereals. Fill lower part | full of boiling water. It must be 
kept rapidly boiling while cereal is cooking. If more water is needed 
before the cooking is completed, boiling water should be used. 

Add cereal slowly to rapidly boiling salted water in upper part of 
double boiler and stir constantly until it thickens, cooking directly 
over the fire. Place over boiling water to finish cooking. Rice 
should be washed before cooking. 



52 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Combinations of Cereals and Fruits 

Apples in Sirup with Rice I 

Ingredients : 

I c. boiling water stick cinnamon 

I c. sugar apples 

Method : 

Boil sugar, cinnamon, and water together three minutes. 

Wash apples, core, pare, and quarter and boil in the sirup until 
tender. Remove apples from sirup as soon as transparent and con- 
tinue boUing until a medium-thick sirup is formed. Arrange apples 
attractively around a mound or mold of cereal and pour sirup over 
aU. 

Apples in Sirup with Rice 11 

Method : 

Steam rice in individual molds. Turn out- and surroimd with 
stewed apples cut in eighths. Uncooked fruits, as oranges, bananas, 
or strawberries, may be used. 



Apples in Sirup with Oatmeal 

Method : 

Stew pared, cored apples and fill cavities with cooked oatmeal 
mixed with chopped dates. Pour sirup over apples and serve with 
whipped cream. This may be served for breakfast or as a simple 
dessert for luncheon. 



Oatmeal with Dates 

Ingredients : 

^ c. oatmeal I lb. dates 

I tsp. salt ij c. water 

Method I : 

Prepare oatmeal as usual. When half cooked, add dates, washed, 
stoned, and cut in halves ; or when oatmeal is cooked, add dates finely 
chopped. 



CEREALS 



53 



Method II: 

Wash, stone, and cut dates in quarters lengthwise. Using a custard 
cup prepare a mold by first dipping in cold water. Press pieces of 
dates against sides of cup, radiating from center like petals. Care- 
fully turn in cereal and cool. Serve with cream. 

Note : Cream of wheat, wheatena, and farina may be used with dates. 
Raisins, figs, or prunes may be substituted for dates. 



Farinaceous Desserts 

Apple Tapioca 

Ingredients : 

f c. pearl or minute tapioca 

cold water 

2j c. boiling water 7 sour apples 

5 tsp. salt 

J c. sugar 

Method : 

Soak tapioca one hour in cold water to cover, drain, add boiling 
water and salt ; cook in double boiler until transparent. Core and 
pare apples, arrange in buttered pudding dish, fill cavities with sugar, 
pour over tapioca and bake in moderate oven until apples are soft. 
Serve with sugar and cream. Do not soak minute tapioca. 



Fresh or canned 
peaches or 
other fruits 
. may be used. 



Cornstarch Pudding 

Ingredients : 

I pt. milk scalded J tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. cornstarch i c. cold milk 

4 tbsp. sugar, | tsp. vanilla 

Method : 

Plain 

Make paste of cornstarch, salt, sugar, and cold milk. Add to 
scalded milk slowly, stirring constantly. Stir imtil smooth, then 
cover and cook 45 minutes in double boiler. Add vanilla and pour 



54 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

into molds previously wet with cold water. Serve cold with cream 
and sugar. 

Chocolate 

Melt chocolate. Add scalded milk gradually. Finish as in plain 
pudding. If eggs are used, beat and add the cornstarch mixture 
slowly to them. Return to double boiler and cook 3 minutes, stirring 
constantly. 

Additions 

whites 2 eggs, or yolks 2 eggs, or 

2 squares chocolate 

Use I tbsp. cornstarch to i c. mUk for soft pudding. 
Use 2 tbsp. cornstarch to i c. milk to mold. 



Baked Indian Pudding 

Ingredients : 

I qt. milk J c. com meal 

5 tbsp. ginger J c. molasses 

I egg X tbsp. butter 

5 tsp. salt 
Method : 

Scald the milk and add the molasses and butter. Mix the com 
meal, ginger, and salt and pour the liquid over dry ingredients. Beat 
in the egg and pour the mixture into a buttered baking dish. Bake 
two hours in a moderate oven. 



Coffee Sago Pudding 

Ingredients : 

2 c. boiled coffee j c. sugar 

I c. sago I tsp. salt 

Method : 

Wash sago in cold water ; add coffee and cook in double boiler 
until sago is transparent. Add sugar and salt. Serve with cream 
and sugar or soft custard. Coffee Sago may be served hot or 
cold. 



CEREALS 55 

Orange Pudding 
Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. cornstarch 2 c. boiling water 

I c. sugar I tbsp. butter 

5 tsp. salt juice of i lemon 

3 oranges 
Method : 

Prepare cornstarch pudding and pour o-ver sliced oranges. 



Rice Pudding 

I qt. mUk § tsp. salt 

I c. rice J c. sugar 

I tsp. vanOla .5 c. raisins 

Method : 

Wash rice, place in a buttered pan, add other ingredients except 
raisins. Bake slowly several hours, stirring occasionally. Add 
raisins when done. 



Shredded Wheat Pudding 

2 c. hot mUk ^ c. molasses 

I shredded wheat biscuit 5 tsp. salt 

I egg 5 tsp. cinnamon 

Method : 

Combine ingredients and bake in a moderate oven until firm. 
Serve with cream. 

Gruels 

Gruels are liquid preparations of finely ground grain products. 
Long cooking in a double boiler is necessary to make the starch 
soluble or to partly dextrinize it. 



56 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Arrowroot Gruel 

Ingredients : 

2 tsp. arrowroot i c. boiling water or nulk 

2 tbsp. cold water salt 

Method: (for all, same as given for cereals on page 51). 



Ingredients : 

1 tbsp. barley flour 

2 tbsp. cold water 



Barley Gruel 

I c. scalded milk 
salt 



Ingredients : 

1 tbsp. corn meal 

2 tbsp. cold water 



Corn Meal Gruel 

ij c. boUing water 
salt 



Oatmeal Gruel 

Ingredients: 

i c. coarse oatmeal 15 c. boiling water 

J tsp. salt mUk to thin it to right consistency 

References 
Grain Products 

BiKDSEYE. Rice and Rice Cookery. Cornell Universit}' Bulletin, 

vol. 3, January i, 1914. 
Cereal Foods. Maine Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 

118 (1905)- 
Cereals and How to Cook Them. The University of Nebraska, 

Home Studies Series No. 2. 
Cereals and Other Starchy Foods, Demonstration. Iowa State 

College of Agriculture. Extension department. Short course 

class notes no. 5. 
Day, Edna. Digestibility of Starch of Different Sorts as Affected 

by Cooking. United States Department of Agriculture, Farm- 
ers' Bulletin, 202 (1908). 



CEREALS 57 

FouLK, Elma. Ohio State University. The Agricultural College, 

Home Makers Reading Course No. 2. 
Hunt. The Cereals in America. 
Langworthy and Hunt. Corn Meal as a Food" and Ways of Using 

it. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, 

565 (1914). 
Langworthy and Hunt. Use of Corn, Kafir and Cow Peas in the 

Home. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' 

Bulletin, SS9 (1913)- 
Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 
Merrill. Indian Corn as Food for Man. Maine Agricultural 

Experiment Station, Bulletin 131 (1906). 
Pattee. Practical Dietetics with Reference to Diet in Disease. 
Sherman. Food Products. 
Wiley. Cereals and Cereal Products. Part 9 of Bulletin 13 of 

the Bureau of Chemistry, United States Department of Agri- 
culture. 
Woods and Snyder. Cereal Breakfast Foods. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, 249 (191 1). 
Woods. Food Value of Corn and Corn Products. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, 298 (1907). 



CHAPTER V 

VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 

Vegetables cover a class of foods some of which are fruits, 
some roots, leaves, stalks, seeds, bulbs, and tubers. A classi- 
fication of vegetables is given below. Like the fruits, the vege- 
tables vary greatly in their general composition. Some, like 
the legumes, are characterized by high protein content ; others, 
including the roots and tubers, by high carbohydrate content ; 
still others, including most of the leaves, stalks, and bulbs, by 
high cellulose and water content. All vegetables, however, are 
rich in one or more of the ash constituents such as iron, calcium, 
and phosphorus, which are now known to play an important 
part in nutrition.' (See Sherman's Food Products, pages 324- 
329, for percentage composition, and pages 347-349 for 
percentage of ash in the edible portion.) 

Classification : 

a. According to the part of the plant used for food. 
h. Character of juice — sweet, strong. 

c. Character of plant — starchy, watery. 

d. Fresh, dried, canned. 

a. Part of tlie plant : 

Leaves — lettuce, water cress, spinach, cabbage, dandeUon, kale, 
Swiss chard, beet tops, turnip tops. 

Stalks — asparagus, celery, rhubarb. 

Bulhs — onion, — Bermuda, Spanish, Egyptian; garlic, leek, 
shallot, chives. 

Seaweeds — Irish moss, agar or Ceylon moss. 
S8 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 59 

Tubers — ^ potatoes, Jerusalem artichokes, dasheen corms. 

Tuberous roots — sweet potatoes, yams, cassava, arrowroot. 

Succulent roots — turnips, beets, kohl-rabi, radishes, carrots, 
parsnips, oyster plant. 

Flowers — cauliflower, French artichoke. 

Fruits — • tomatoes, cucumber, squash, pumpkins, okra, corn, 
peppers, eggplant. 

Seeds — peas, beans, lentils. 

h. Character of juice : 

sweet strong 

celery onions 

carrots cabbage 

beets turnips 

c. Character of plant : 

starchy watery 

potatoes cabbage 

parsnips tomatoes 

cucumbers 

Points to emphasize. Select medium-sized vegetables and wash 
carefuUy. Soak cauliflower in salt water before cooking. Soak 
wilted vegetables in cold water. Cook summer vegetables as soon 
after gathering as possible. If necessary to keep, place in refrigera- 
tor or in a cool cellar. Keep winter vegetables in barrels or bins in 
a dry, cold place. Empty canned vegetables as soon as opened, and 
let stand exposed to the air a few minutes to become aerated. Vege- 
tables lack fat in any quantity, therefore it is well to combine them 
with butter, oil, or cream. It saves time to cook a double portion 
of a vegetable and reheat the next day in another form. 

Reasons for cooking vegetables : 

To sterilize any from doubtful sources. 

To soften cellulose. 

To make starch more easily digestible. 

To develop or modify flavors. 

To give a variety of attractive ways of serving. 



6o LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Ways of serving vegetables : 

Boiled with butter Mashed 

Creamed Puddings (Irish moss) 

Croquettes Salads 

Scalloped with cheese Souffles 

Fritters Soups 

General rules for cooking. Wash thoroughly, pare or scrape if 
skins must be removed. Let stand in cold water until cooked to 
keep crisp and prevent discoloration. Pare onions under cold water 
to absorb the odor. Cut tops of beets i inch from beet. Use one 
tsp. salt to I qt. boUing water. Add salt when vegetables are half 
cooked. The water in which vegetables are cooked is called vege- 
table stock and may be used with milk in the preparation of white 
sauce for vegetables with sweet juice. Cook strong-juiced vegetables 
uncovered in a large amount of water, sweet-juiced covered in a 
small amount of water. The color may be kept in green vegetables 
by pouring cold water through them after draining. Drain vege- 
tables as soon as tender. Cold vegetables may be used in salads, 
combined with white sauce as " creamed vegetables," or white sauce 
and buttered crumbs as " scalloped vegetables.'' 

EXPERIMENTS 
Potato 

62. — Prepare two very thin slices of white potato, one lengthwise 
and one across. 

Hold against a strong light. 

Observe markings and Hnes. What are they? 

Make a drawing. 

See Sherman's Food Products, pages 320-321, 322. 

63. — Do the same with carrot, turnip, and onion. 
Compare and state conclusions. 

64. — Wash, pare, and grate into a bowl a good-sized white potato. 
Make a microscopic examination of a particle of the pulp in a drop 

of water, before and after treatment with a drop of dilute iodine 
solution. See page 13. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 6l 

65. — Pour pulp and fluid from Expt. 64 into a wet cheesecloth 
over a bowl of cold water. 

Draw the cloth together and knead the mass in the water. 

To what is the milky color of the water due? 

Test a little of the water with iodine. 

Boil a little. 

What changes do you observe? Explain. 

66. — Change the water and continue washing the pulp from Expts. 
64 and 66 untU the water is only slightly milky or clear. Save each 
water. 

Open cheesecloth and examine content. 
What does this explain as to the structure of the potato ? 
What does this explain as to the cooking of potato and other starchy 
vegetables ? 

67. — • Observe the water and starch which has been standing. 
Decant off the water and turn sediment on to a filter paper to dry. 
Note the clear white color of the sediment. Note the brown color 

of liquid. To what is this due? (See experiments with Apple.) 

68. — Add fresh cold water to a portion of the sediment obtained in 
Expt. 67; stir until particles are all suspended. Dip in a piece of 
white muslin and iron while still wet. When have you observed this 
same result ? 

69. — Add freshly boiling water to the sediment in one bowl. Stir 
the mixture constantly. 

How does this compare with Expt. 68 ? 

Dip a piece of muslin in, allow it to dry, sprinkle, and iron. 

70. — Repeat Expts. 68 and 69, using carrot and turnip^ 
Compare and state conclusions. 

Dextrinized Starch 

71. — a. Dextrinize one tbsp. flour by heating the flour in a dry 
utensil. 

6. Test with iodine. (See page 13.) 

c. Add water to make a solution. 

d. Does the color turn? 



62 LABORATORY MANUAL' OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

e. Why not ? 

/. Does the dextrin appear to be more or less soluble than 
flour or starch in cold water ? 

g. Explain your answer. 

72. — a. Thicken I c. cold water with i tbsp. flour. 

b. Thicken i c. cold water with i tbsp. dextrinized flour 
(boil each). 

c. Which mixture is thickest ? Why ? 

Starchy Vegetables 

Vegetables may be prepared for cooking processes by peeling or 
scraping. Peeling is more often done carelessly than carefully. 
Have ready the following vegetables : 

white potato sweet potato 

carrot turnip 

parsnip 

73. — Wash, scrub with a brush, and weigh each vegetable. 
Estimate the waste in the preparation of each vegetable by the 

following methods : 
a. scraping 
h. peeling carefully 
c. peeling in the usual manner 
Which method is the more economical? 

Cooking of Vegetables 

74. — Have washed and scrubbed the following vegetables : 

a. white potato 
h, sweet potato 
c. carrot 

Prepare each by : 

a. peeling 

b. scraping 

c. scrubbing, but not removing skin 

a. Boil each vegetable, prepared in the three ways. 

b. Note the length of time of cooking. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 6-^ 

c. Compare as to color, texture, and flavor. 

d. Note the length of time and ease in removing the skin of the 
cooked vegetable as compared with peeling an uncooked vegetable. 

e. Test the water in each case for starch, protein, sugar, and 
mineral matter. By which method of preparation is most food value 
lost? Why? What are your conclusions? 

75. — Use the same kinds of vegetables prepared for cooking by 
peeling, scraping, and scrubbing. 

Bake in a hot oven. Note the time of baking, appearance, texture, 
color, taste in each case. 

Which method of preparation for baking vegetables is best ? Why ? 

Green Vegetables 

Green vegetables are prepared for cooking or fresh for the table 
by washing in several waters to remove sand, parasites, etc. 

76. — Wash the following vegetables : 

lettuce celery spinach 

green peas string beans onions 

cauliflower 

Arrange samples of each green vegetable as foUows : 

a. Soak in cold water i hour in room. 

b. Soak in ice water i hour in refrigerator. 

c. Soak in salted cold water (2 tsp. salt to i pt. water) i hour 
in room. 

d. Soak in salted ice water (2 tsp. salt to i pt. ice water) 
I hour in refrigerator. 

„ , . .J ^ / I tsp. lemon juice 1 , . . 

e. Soak m acid water < ^ . ? to i pt. ice water 

1 1 tsp. vinegar J 

in refrigerator i hour. 
Note the crispness in each case. 
Is there any change in color or flavor? 

77. — Boil samples of each vegetable in the following manner : 

a. Large quantity of water. No cover. 

b. Small amount of water. Cover tightly. 

c. Small amount of water. No cover. 



64 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Compare the length of time of cooking in each case. 
Contrast color, flavor, attractiveness. 
Which method is best for each vegetable? 
Why? 

78. — Prepare spinach by cooking in double boiler, using no water 
in upper part. Enough moisture will be furnished by the water 
which clings to the spinach in washing and also the water in the plant. 

Compare with that boiled in water. 

79. — What nutrients are lost by cooking green vegetables in 
water ? 

Prove this by testing the water. The cooperation of the chemistry 
laboratory should be sought, and distilled water should be used in 
boiling the vegetables. 

Cookers 

80. — a. Prepare several kinds of roots and tubers {e.g. potatoes, 
carrots, sweet potatoes, beets, turnips, parsnips) in both the fireless 
and the pressure cooker. Note the temperature used for each cooker. 

b. Note the length of time required in each case to cook 
each vegetable and the amount of water necessary. 

c. Contrast the amount of water used and ejqslain the 
difference. 

d. Compute the difference in labor, time, and fuel. 

81. — Repeat Expt. 80, using leafy vegetables {e.g. spinach, cabbage) 
and report results in the same way. 

82. — Experiment simOarly with onions, cauliflower, and other 
vegetables. 

Summarize the evidence as to relative merits of the two methods 
for each kind of vegetable. Are there any vegetables for which 
either cooker would not be suitable? 



Buttered Beets 

Ingredients : 

6 beets (cooked) 2 tbsp. sugar 

2 tbsp. butter i tbsp. vinegar 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 65 

Method : 

Prepare the cooked beets in \ in. slices and place in baking dish. 
Melt the butter, add the sugar and vinegar and allow mixture to 
come to the boiling point. Pour the sirup over the beets and place 
baking dish in moderately hot oven for ten minutes. 

Glazed Carrots with Peas 

Ingredients : 

1 c. butter 2 c. peas 
5 tbsp. sugar 6 carrots 

Method : 

Prepare carrots, cut in strips and boU 15 minutes. Drain, return 
to saucepan, add butter and sugar, cover and cook slowly until 
tender. Add the cooked peas (canned may be used) and season. 

Corn Pudding 

Ingredients : 

2 c. corn I tbsp. sugar 
2 egg yolks i tbsp. butter 
1 tbsp. flour I c. milk 

5 tsp. salt I tsp. pepper 

2 egg whites 
Method : 

Melt the butter, add the sugar, flour, and milk. Let heat until 
mixture reaches boiling point. Add the slightly beaten egg yolks, 
then corn, salt and pepper. Fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites, 
pour into a buttered baking dish, and bake in a moderate oven 30-40 
minutes. Serve at once. 

Buttered Cabbage 

Ingredients : 

I cabbage 2 tbsp. melted butter 

salt water 

Method : 

Separate the cabbage leaves, wash and place in boiling salted 
water. Boil until leaves are tender. Drain the water from the 
leaves, place them in serving dish and add melted butter. Serve hot. 



66 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Cabbage with Ham 

Ingredients : 

I cabbage ' i lb. cooked ham 

water 

Method : 

Separate and wash the cabbage leaves. Place in boiling water, 
adding the cooked ham. Allow all to boil until cabbage is tender. 
Drain water from the leaves, arrange cabbage on serving dish, and 
garnish with ham. 

Note : Bacon may be substituted for ham. 



Ingredients : 



Creamed Cabbage 



1 cabbage i c. vinegar 

2 egg yolks i c. water 
i tbsp. butter i c. cream 

Method : 

Separate the cabbage leaves, wash and cut them in thin pieces 
and cook in boiling salted water. Prepare a custard of the yolks of 
eggs, water, vinegar, and butter. Cook the mixture in a double 
boiler and as it thickens add the cream. When custard is thick, pour 
it over the cabbage in a serving dish. Serve hot. 



Stuffed Baked Potatoes 

Ingredients : 

6 baked potatoes 3 tbsp. hot milk 

2 tbsp. butter i tsp. salt 

I tsp. white pepper 
Method : 

Cut the potatoes in halves, lengthwise; then without breaking the 
skin remove the inside. ^Nlash with a fork, season, and return to 
shells, keeping it light and fluffy. Place on a pan in a hot oven until 
light brown. 



VEGETABLES ANB VEGETABLE SOUPS 67 

Potato Apples 

Ingredients : 

2 c. hot riced potatoes cayenne 

2 tbsp. butter grating of nutmeg 

1 c. grated cheese yolks 2 eggs or i whole egg 

Method: 

Mix ingredients in order given, and beat thoroughly. Shape in 
form of small apples, roll in flour, egg and crumbs, fry in deep fat. 
Insert a clove at stem and blossom end. 

Potato Puff 

Ingredients : 

2 c. mashed potatoes 2 tbsp. melted butter 
2 eggs I c. cream 

I tsp. salt 
Method : 

Beat the potatoes, eggs, and cream until the mixture is smooth and 
light. Add the melted butter and salt. Pour mixture into a buttered 
baking dish and bake in a hot oven until it is well risen and brown. 

Potato Souffle 

Ingredients : 

4 large white potatoes | c. milk 

I tbsp. butter i tsp. pepper 

4 egg whites 4 egg yolks 

1 tsp. salt 
Method : 

Boil and rice the potatoes. Add the milk, butter, salt, pepper, and 
yolks of eggs. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs and pour the 
mixture into a buttered baking dish. Bake in a moderate oven until 
the surface is browned. 

Svreet. Potato Puff 

Ingredients : 

6 sweet potatoes 2 tbsp. butter 

whites 2 eggs 2 tsp. salt 



68 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Boil and mash the sweet potatos. Add the butter, salt, and stiffly 
beaten whites of eggs. Pour the mixture into buttered custard 
cups placed in boiling water. Bake in a hot oven twenty minutes. 
Serve in the cups with a parsley garnish. 

Glazed Sweet Potato I 

Ingredients : 

6 medium-sized potatoes | c. sugar 

3 c. water i tbsp. butter 

Method : 

Wash and pare sweet potatoes. Cook ten minutes in boiling 
salted water. Drain, cut in halves lengthwise, and put in a buttered 
pan. Make a sirup of sugar, water; add butter. Brush potatoes 
with sirup and bake 15 minutes, basting twice with remaining sirup. 

Glazed Sweet Potato II 

Ingredients : 

6 medium-sized boiled sweet potatoes 

J c. butter i c. sugar 

hot water salt 

Method : 

Melt butter in a frying pan, add sugar and a little salt gradually 
to allow sugar to melt and form a brown sirup. Add enough hot 
water to reduce to a thin sirup. Cut potatoes in lengthwise slices, 
place in pan and heat over fire, basting constantly until they show a 
rich golden glaze. Serve at once. 

Browned Parsnips 

Ingredients : 

cold, boUed parsnips pepper 

butter salt 

Method : 

Cut parsnips in lengthwise slices. Place in butter until well 
browned. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 69 

Stuffed Peppers 



Ingredients : 

6 green peppers 3 tbsp. crumbs 

1 onion 8 tbsp. chopped ham 

2 tbsp. butter salt 

3 c. brown sauce pepper 

Method : 

Cut a slice from stem end or cut peppers lengthwise. Remove all 
seeds and parboil 10 minutes. Do not leave in water. Cut onion 
in small pieces and brown in butter. Add sauce and bread crumbs. 
Sprinkle with pepper and salt. Fill peppers with mixture. Cover 
with buttered crumbs and bake 10 minutes in a hot oven. 



Winter Squash 

Steamed : 

Cut squash in pieces, remove seeds and stringy portion, and pare. 
Steam until soft. Mash and season with butter, salt, and pepper. 

Baked: 

Cut in 2-inch pieces, remove seeds and stringy portion, place in a 
pan, cover and bake until soft in a slow oven. Mash and serve in the 
shell or remove from the shell, mash, and season. 



Squash SouflSe 

Ingredients : 

2 c. hot steamed squash i| c. milk 

I tbsp. brown sugar 2 eggs 

I tsp. salt J tsp. pepper 

Method : 

Wash squash, add remaining ingredients, eggs beaten separately, 
and whites folded in last. Place in pan of hot water and bake in 
moderate oven until firm. 



70 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Baked Summer Squash 

Ingredients : 

3 c. mashed, cooked squash i egg 

25 c. bread crumbs i tsp. onion juice 

5 c. mUk I tsp. pepper 

6 sUces bacon i tsp. salt 

Method : 

Broil the bacon, and add 2 tbsp. of the fat to the squash. Com- 
bine ingredients and place in a buttered baking dish. Bake in a 
moderate oven until brown. Garnish with the bacon. 



Ingredients : 



Vegetables en Casserole I 



6 potatoes i c. rice 

I turnip I tsp. salt 

I c. peas 5 tsp. pepper 

I c. tomatoes 5 tsp. allspice 

I onion 4 c. brown stock 

Method : 

Prepare vegetables and wash rice. Put ingredients in layers in a 
casserole, add stock, cover and bake slowly 3 hours. 



Vegetables en Casserole n 

Ingredients : 

2 cooked turnips 2 tbsp. butter 

4 cooked carrots i tsp. salt 

4 c. cooked spinach J tsp. pepper 

Method : 

Line a buttered mold with strips of carrots and turnips. Fill with 
spinach seasoned with butter, salt, and pepper, set in a pan of hot 
water and bake 20 minutes. Remove from mold and surround witf 
white sauce. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 71 

Eggplant en Casserole 

Ingredients : 

2 c. mashed, boiled eggplant i tsp. salt 

f c. stewed tomatoes | tsp. pepper 

3 tbsp. butter i tbsp. grated onion 
3 tbsp. chopped, cooked meat ^ c. buttered crumbs 

Method : 

Combine vegetables, meat, and seasonings, place in a casserole 
and cover with crumbs. Brown in a hot oven. 

Boston Baked Beans 

Ingredients : 

I qt. pea beans i tbsp. salt 

I lb. fat salt pork J c. molasses, New Orleans 

I tsp. soda J tbsp. mustard 

cayenne boiling water 

I small onion 
Method : 

Pick over and wash beans, cover with cold water and soak over- 
night. Drain, cover with fresh water and parboil, with soda. Drain 
again. Pour boiling water over pork, scrape rind and score. Cut 
off one thin slice and place with the onion in the bottom of the pot. 
Put beans in pot, then press pork in beans, leaving only the rind 
above. Mix the seasonings, molasses, and i c. boUing water and pour 
into the bean pot and bake in slow oven 8 to 10 hours. Add water as 
needed. Uncover bean pot during the last hour of baking to brown 
the rind. Serve with Boston Brown Bread. 

Dried Lima Beans 

Ingredients : 

I c. beans i tbsp. butter 

i tsp. salt i tsp. white pepper 

Method : 

Wash the beans and soak overnight in plenty of cold water. Drain, 
boil in" salted water 5 minutes. Add i tsp. baking soda to each 



72 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

quaxt water. Put them into the fireless cooker for 4 hours or more. 
Drain, season with the butter, salt, and pepper, and reheat if necessary. 



7 small onion 
water 



Stewed Lentils 

Ingredients : 

1 c. lentUs 

J lb. bacon 

J c. vinegar 
Method : 

Wash lentUs and soak overnight. Drain, cover with fresh cold 
water and cook with bacon and onion several hours, until tender. 
Drain, reserving i c. liquid; thicken this with 2 tbsp. browned flour 
mixed with 2 tbsp. cold water. Boil 5 minutes, add the vinegar, 
and reheat the lentUs in this sauce. Season with pepper, and salt if 
necessary. 

White Sauce 



Proportions 



I. Thin — cream soups . . . 
II. Medium — creamed vegetables 

III. Thick — creamed oysters . . 

IV. Very thick — croquettes . . 



1 tbsp. 

2 tbsp. 

3 tbsp. 

4 tbsp. 



1 tbsp. 

2 tbsp. 

3 tbsp. 
1-2 tbsp. 



Salt 



itsp. 
i tsp. 
itsp. 
itsp. 



I c. 
I c. 
I c. 
I c. 



Method .' 

French 

Melt butter, add flour. Add milk, stirring constantly to prevent 
lumping or burning. Cook until mixture has thoroughly boUed. 
Add salt and pepper. If made in quantities of more than 2 c, a 
double boiler should be used in order to prevent burning or scorching. 

Hygienic 

Make a paste of flour and milk. Cook in a double boiler for 30 
minutes. Just before serving add butter, salt, and pepper. " Hy- 
gienic " white sauce is supposed to be more easily digested than that 
made by the French method as the starch is more thoroughly cooked 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 73 

and butter not cooked. The French method is more commonly 
used, however. 

Uses of White Sauce 

Cream soups Custard for fillings and ice creams 

Creamed vegetables and oysters Gravies 

Croquettes Souffles 

Variations 
Addition of eggs, cheese, fruit juices. 

Creamed Vegetables 
2 c. vegetable i c. white sauce 11 

Scalloped Vegetables 

2 c. vegetables i c. white sauce 11 

I c. buttered crumbs 
(See rules for scalloped dishes below) 

Note : § c. grated cheese may be substituted for buttered crumbs. 

Scalloped Dishes 
General Rules 

1. The crumbs used for scalloped dishes are prepared from the 
inside of stale bread. Crumb the bread by grating, or by rubbing 
two pieces together. 

2. Place the food material in two layers, using one quarter the 
amount of crumbs on the bottom of the dish, one quarter in the middle, 
and the remaining half on the top of the dish. 

3. Butter the baking dishes and shells. 

4. A moderate oven is best used in the baking. 

Crumbs for Scalloped Dishes 

Ingredients : 

I c. crumbs white pepper or cayenne 

i tsp. salt I tbsp. butter 



74 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Melt the butter in a baking dish, remove from fire and stir in 
seasoned crmnbs lightly, using a fork. 



Scalloped Tomatoes 

Ingredients : 

I can or i qt. tomatoes i tsp. salt 

3 c. crumbs i tsp. pepper 

3 tbsp. butter 
Method : 

Prepare according to rule and bake one half hour covered; then 
uncover to brown crimibs. 



Scalloped Apples 

Ingredients : 

3 c. crumbs j tsp. nutmeg 

3 tbsp. butter j tsp. cinnamon 

3 c. sliced apples i lemon, juice and rind 
5 c. sugar 5 c. water 

Method : 

Mix sugar and spice. Prepare according to the rule and bake one 
hour, covered ; then uncover to brown crumbs. The water must be 
added before the top layer of cnmibs. If the apples are tart, the 
lemon juice may be omitted. More water may be needed if the apples 
are not juicy. 

Cream Soups 

Cream of Asparagus Soup 

Ingredients : 

I bunch asparagus cubed 4 tbsp. flour 

I qt. boiling water ij tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. butter pepper 

I pt. mUk 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 75 

Cream of Celery Soup 

Ingredients : 

15 c. celery cubed 4 tbsp. flour 

I pt. boiling water -2- tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. butter i pt. mUk 
pepper 



Cream of Chicken Soup 

I qt. chicken stock 4 tbsp. flour 

I pt. mUk 5 tsp. celery salt 

4 tbsp. chicken fat salt and pepper 



Cream of String Bean Soup 

Ingredients : 

I can beans 4 tbsp. flour 

1 pt. boiling water 15 tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. butter pepper 

I pt. meat stock i pt. milk 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Ingredients : 

I qt. tomatoes ^ c. flour 

I tsp. soda 3 tsp. salt 

J c. butter | tsp. white pepper 

1 qt. milk 
Method : 

Stew the tomatoes slowly ij minutes. Strain and add soda whUe 
hot. Combine with white sauce. 

PlTREES 

Corn Soup I 

Ingredients : 

I can corn 4 tbsp. butter 

I pt. water 4 tbsp. flour 

1 qt. milk ij tsp. salt 

I slice onion pepper 



76 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 

I can cornlet 
I pt. water 
I qt. milk 
J c. butter 

Method : 



Corn Soup II 

1 tbsp. chopped onion 
i c. flour 

2 tsp. salt 

J tsp. white pepper 
yolks 2 eggs 



Cook the cornlet with the water 20 minutes. Cook the onion in the 
melted butter until brown, add flour, seasoning, and the milk gradually 
as for white sauce. Strain, add strained cornlet, combine mixtures, 
pour over the weU-beaten yolks, and serve at once. 



Ingredients: 



Pea Soup 



I can peas 
I qt. boiling water 
S tbsp. butter 
5 tbsp. flour 



5 tsp. salt 
5 tsp. sugar 
pepper 
1 pt. milk 



Ingredients : 



Potato Soup 



3 potatoes 
I pt. milk or 

1 pt. mUk and water 

2 tsp. chopped onion 
I tbsp. butter 



I tbsp. flour 
I tsp. salt 

1 tsp. white pepper 
celery salt 

2 tsp. chopped parsley 



Method : 



Boil potatoes until soft, drain ; scald milk and onion in a double 
boiler. Beat potatoes with a wire potato masher, add hot liquid, 
strain, and return to the double boiler. Make a white sauce, using 
this as liquid. Cook 5 minutes, and add the chopped parsley just 
before serving. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 



77 



Ingredients : 

1 qt. black beans 
4 qts. cold water 

2 tbsp. chopped onion 
2 tsp. salt 

I tsp. pepper 
cayenne 



Black Bean Soup 



1 piece celery root 
i tsp. mustard 

4 tbsp. butter 

2 tbsp. flour 

1 large lemon 

2 hard-cooked eggs 



Method : 

Wash the beans and soak them overnight in 2 qts. of cold water, 
drain and rinse thoroughly ; brown the onion in 2 tbsp. of the butter, 
put in with the beans, add the celery root, and 2 qts. cold water. 
Cook slowly until beans are soft, adding more water as it boils away ; 
rub through a strainer; add the seasonings and heat. Heat the 
remaining butter in a saucepan, add the flour, then the hot soup 
gradually. Cut the lemon and eggs in thin slices and serve with the 
soup. 

FOOD VALUES 
Baked Beans 

























Material 




|l 


ii 

£0 


2 

'^0 


< 


< 3 

^6 


CJ 

$ 


hi 

u 




II 












U 










Beans . . 


I c. 


188.S 


42.41 


340 


112. 16 


650 


-041S 


.409 


2. II 


.013 


Salt pork . 


ilb. 


71-5 


1-34 


61.65 




560 


•0347 


.001 


.028 


.0002 


Onion . 


I slice 


17 


.02 


.003 


•15 


7 


.0018 


.008 


.016 


.0001 


Molasses . 


I tbsp. 


7.0 


■17 




4-83 


20 


.0009 


.02 


.02 


.0014 


Total, 






















cooked 


3ic. 


856 


4.3-94 


65-05 


II7.I4 


1237 


.0789 


-438 


2.174 


.0147 


lOO-Calorie 






















Portion 


ic 


69.16 


2.74 


5-26 


9.46 


100 


.006 


■03s 


-173 


.0012 



78 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Creamed Potato 











tii 








; 










5! 









^.6 




Material 


S 
S 


1^ 


Protein 
Gr.ims 

Fat 

Grams 


Si 


11 




u 


SSI 




ii 

"0 

















S 




^ 


Potato 


2 C. 


291.6 


6. 41 


.29 


54-65 


242 


.018 


■045 


-4 


-003 


Butter . 


2 tbsp. 


36.2 


■3<' 30-77 




278 


.02 


.008 


.011 




Flour 


2 tbsp. 


14-15 


1.58, .014 


10.59 


50 


-0015 


-003 


.025 


.0002 


Milk . . 


I c. 


245-9 


8.11 


9-83 


12.29 


170 


-0225 


•4 


■51 


-0005 


Salt . 






















Total, 






















cooked 


3ic. 


575-3 


16.47 


40.7 


77-53 


740 


.062 


■456 


.946 


•0037 


lOO-Calorie 






















Portion 


ic. 


77.66 


2.22 


5-49 


2.71 


100 


.008 


.063 


.132 


.0005 



Cream of Pea Soup 



Peas . . 


I can 


440 


15.84 


.88 


43-12 


242 


-IS 


.096 


-605 


.0036 


Milk . . 


2 c. 


462.4 


15-25 


18.49 


23.12 


319 


-045 


•733 


.966 


.001 


Butter . 


2 tbsp. 


39 


-39 


33-15 




300 


•034 


.009 


.012 




Flour . . 


2 tbsp. 


14 


1-57 


.14 


10.48 


50 


-0015 


■0034 


.024 


.0019 


Water . 


2 c. 




















Seasoning 






















Total, 






















cooked 


4C. 


1034 


31-05 


52-56 


71.82 


QII 


-2,S07 


.8414 


1.607 


.0065 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


Sc. 


"3 


3-10 


S-2S 


7.18 


100 


.023 


.0841 


.06 


.0006 







Cream of Tomato 


Soup 










Tomato . 


I c. 


240 


2.88 


.48 


9-6 


55 


-025 


.048 


.138 


.0093 


Butter . 


I tbsp. 


15-5 


-15 


13-17 




119 


.0123 


•0035 


-0047 




Flour . . 


I tbsp. 


7-5 


-79 


-07 


5.29 


25 


.0007 


.0017 


.0125 


.0001 


Milk . . 


I c. 


233-4 


7.14 


8.67 


11.83 


1,50 


.0225 


-358 


-4=14 


.0005 


Seasonings 






















Total, 






















cooked 


ijc. 


423-2 


10.96 


22.39 


26.72 


349 


.06 


.4112 .6092 


.0009 


loo-Calorie 




















Portion 


he 


121.63 


3-13 


6-4 


7-64 


100 


.017 


.1176.1742 


.0028 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 



79 



Cream of Potato Soup 













ti 












Mateeiai. 


S 


ga 
32 


1^ 


H a 

^0 




^1 

Si 



1 


"3 


So 


ii 












u 










Potatoes . 


3 


360 


7-9 


•36 


74.8 


300 


.012 


-0.57 


.498 


.0045 


Butter . 


2 tbsp. 


26 


.26 


22.1 




200 


.02 


.006 


.008 




Flour . . 


2 tbsp. 


15 


1.58 


• IS 


II. 10 


50 


.001 


-0035 


-02, s 


.0002 


Milk . . 


i*c. 


289 


0-5 


11.56 


14-45 


2CO 


.026 


.478 


.606 


.0006 


Water . 


ic. 




















Total, 






















cooked 


2ic. 


690 


19.24 


34-17 


100.3s 


7.50 


-o.SQ 


-,=;44S 


I -137 


•0053 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


fc. 


89.7 


2-5 


444 


13.04 


100 


.007 


.0707 


■147 


.0006 



Cream of Lentil Soup 



Milk . . 


ic 


162.34 


5-34 


6.54 


8.10 


112 


.018 


-25 


-,S4 


.0003 


Butter . 


3 tbsp. 


S8 


•58 


49-71 




450 


-03 


-0135 


.018 




Lentils 


2 tbsp. 


28.7 


7-37 


-29 


16.93 


100 


-005 


-03 


.18 


.0024 


Cheese . 


I cu.m. 


22.8 


6-5 


8.17 


.004 


100 


.004 


■25 


.329 




Water . 


I c. 


225 


















Seasonings 






















Total, 






















cooked 


2}C. 


534-35 


19-79 


19.71 


25.03 


762 


■057 


-.5435 


.867 


.0027 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


4 c. 


70 


2-59 


2-59 


3-29 


100 


-0075 


.0706 


.112 


.0003 



Split Pea Soup 



Peas . . 


ic. 


56.2 


13-8 


.56 


34-8 


200 


.012 


.08 


-50 


.003 


Onion . 


i tbsp. 


6-5 


.10 


.019 


■64 


3 


.001 


.0036 


.0072 


.00003 


Butter . 


i tbsp. 


11-5 


.11 


9-77 




88 


.01 


,0026 


-0035 




Flour . 


i tbsp. 


5-6 


.62 


.0564 


4.19 


20 


.001 


.0014 


.01 


.00008 


Milk . . 


ic. 


112. 2 


3-7 


4-48 


5-6 


77 


.01 


.1771 


-233 


.00026 


Seasonings 






















Total, 






















cooked 


ijc. 


263-5 


18.33 


14.88 


45-23 


388 


•034 


-2647 


-7537 


-00337 


ico-Calorie 






















Portion 


ic 


67.71 


4-71 


3-82 


11.62 


100 


.0075 


.0661 


.1884 


.0008 



8o LABORATORY MANUAL "OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

References 
Vegetables 

Abel. Beans, Peas, and other Legumes as Food. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 121 (1900). 
Bailey. Cyclopedia of Agriculture and Cyclopedia of Horticulture. 
Bakrows. Course in the Use and Preparation of Vegetable Foods. 

United States Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment 

Station, Bulletin 245 (1912). 
Beattie. Celery. United States Department of Agriculture, 

Farmers' Bulletin 282 (1917). 
BREA2EALE. Canning Vegetables in the Home. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 359 (1909). 
Buchanan. Household Bacteriology. 
CORBETT. A Successful ^Method of Marketing Vegetable Products. 

Yearbook of Department of Agriculture for 191 2. 
CoRBETT. Tomatoes. United States Department of Agriculture, 

Farmers' Bulletin 220. 
De RrvAZ, Evelyn. Little French Dinners. 
George. Vegetarian Cookery. 
Langworthy. Green \'egetables and Their Uses in the Diet. 

United States Department of Agriculture, Yearbook for 191 1. 
Langworthy. Potatoes and other Root Crops as Food. United 

States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 295 (1907). 
Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 
Parloa. Preparation of Vegetables for the Table. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 256 (1906). 
Iowa State College Agricultural Extension Department. Potatoes, 

Demonstration, Short Course Class Notes, Nos. 3 and 16. 
Sherman. Food Products. 
Sherman. Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. 
Thompson. Practical Dietetics. 
Wiley. Foods and their Adulterations. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 8 1 

Soups 

Deliee. Franco-American Cooking Book. 

Ellwanger. The Pleasures of the Table. An Account of Gastron- 
omy from Ancient Days to the Present Time. 

Farmer. The Boston Cooking School Cook Book. 

RoBBiNS. Creamed Soups and Vegetables. Oregon Agricultural 
College, Extension Service, No. 135. 



CHAPTER VI 
MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 

Milk is probably the most important article of diet used to- 
day, because of the large place it fills not only in the diet of 
children and invalids but also in the economic and hygienic 
nutrition of healthy adults. 

In qualitative composition milk is an aqueous solution of 
milk su;^ ir, mineral matter, and albumin with fat globules held 
in suspension and casein together with mineral matter in a state 
of semi-solution. Other facts regarding the constituents of 
milk will be developed in the course of the experimental work 
included in this chapter. 

The quantities of the chief constituents average approxi- 
mately as follows : water, 87 per cent ; milk sugar, 5 per cent ; 
fat, 4 per cent ; proteins, 3.3 per cent ; ash, 0.7 per cent. Mar- 
ket milk may of course be somewhat less rich in one or more of 
the foodstuffs than this average, but nearly every state now has 
legal requirements governing the milk industry and setting at 
least a minimum standard for the product. In buying milk 
the sanitary quality should be carefully considered as well as 
the food value. See Leach's Food Inspection and Anal\si:\ 
Chapter VII, Rosenau's The Milk Question, and Sherman's 
Food Products, Chapter III. 

Milk is the most important of all foods as a source of body- 
building material for growing children. WhUe the great eco- 
nomic growth of the milk industry, the progress in the chemical 
and bacteriological study of milk, and the care given to the 
legal and sanitary control of the production and handling of 

82 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 83 

milk are all indications of a growing realization of the impor- 
tance of milk as a food, yet it is of interest to find that the great 
quantity of milk used as such in this country amounts on calcu- 
lation to only a little over a half a pint per day for every man, 
woman, and child, whereas the study of dietetics teaches us that 
adults should have at least as much milk as this and children 
a good deal more — "a quart of milk a day for every child " 
if possible. The study of milk cookery should therefore have 
as one of its main objects the development of a higher appre- 
ciation of milk as a food and the encouragement of its more 
liberal use in the diet, both as a beverage and in the greatest 
variety of cooked foods. 

EXPERIMENTS ON MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS ^ 
Cream 

83. — Examine a bottle of milk obtained from a reliable dealer. 

a. Read the statements on the cap. 
i. Of what significance are they? 

c. What are the two layers in the bottle ? 

d. Why is the yeUow layer at the top ? 

84. — a. Examine with the microscope a tiny drop of creain. 

b. Make a drawing of the fat droplets. 

85. — a. Divide a quart of cream into four cups: A, B, C, D. 

b. Heat A in a double boiler until a thick scum appears. 
Allow the cream to cool and then beat it with a Dover egg beater. 
(Keep B, C, and D for subsequent experiments.) 

c. Can this cream be beaten stiff ? 

d. What was the scum which appeared when the cream was 
heated ? 

86. — a. Whip B with a wire whisk until stiff. 

b. Beat c with a Dover egg beater until stiff. 

1 A division in the recipes for milk and cheese has been made, but the experiments 
for milk and milk products have been considered together for purposes of compari- 
son and summary. 



84 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

c. Compare A, B, and C as to flavor, consistency, and 
volume. 

d. How do you explain differences noted? 

87. — Beat D with a Dover egg beater until fat globules form 
masses and butter results. Drain off buttermilk and save for further 
experiments. 

Compute the per cent of butter obtained from a unit of cream. 

88. — Wash the butter in cold water until no more buttermilk 
appears. " Pat " out the water. 

a. Weigh the washed butter and divide it into two parts of 
equal weight. 

h. Add sufficient salt to one part to give it the usual salty 
flavor. 

c. Put both parts in the refrigerator for a few hours to ripen. 

d. Compare as to weight, flavor, and texture. 

Butter 

89. — Heat a teaspoon each of pure butter, renovated butter, and 
oleomargarine in separate tablespoons over a bunsen burner. 

Note the manner in which each melts and the appearance after 
melting. 

This is called the foam test for butter. Why should the butter 
boil quietly while the renovated butter and the oleomargarine sputter 
and crackle? 

90. — Place a tablespoon of each of the three samples used in 
Expt. 89 in each of three small beakers containing four tablespoons 
of sweet milk. Heat the beakers until the fats are melted, then 
place them in cold water and while the fat is still melted stir each 
vigorously with a splint of wood. Note the form the pure and 
renovated butters take and contrast with the condition of the oleo- 
margarine. 

Buttermilk 

91. — Prepare butter from sweet cream. Prepare butter from an 
equal volume of sour cream. Compare resulting butter as to flavor, 
texture, and quantity. (Keep the buttermilk for Expts. 92 and 93.) 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 85 

92'. — a. Compare each buttermilk as to flavor and color. 

b. Use each in gingerbread. Is any perceptible difference 
noticed ? 

93. — a. Reaction of milk. Test fresh milk with delicate litmus 
paper and record results for comparison with tests to be made later. 
b. Compare the behavior of the two buttermilks from Expt. 91 
toward litmus paper with that just observed in the case of sweet 
milk and with each other. Is there any relation between the differ- 
ence here seen and that observed in making gingerbread (Expt. 92) ? 

Constituents of Milk 

94. — a. The presence of water and fat in milk has been sufii- 
ciently demonstrated in the above experiments. 

b. If a platinum or quartz dish is available, a little of the 
milk may be dried and burned to determine whether it yields ash. 

95. — a. Test milk for protein by means of the biuret ^ and xantho- 
proteic ^ reactions. 

b. Try heating some of the fresh milk to boiling. Does it 
contain a protein coagulable by heat like that of egg-white (page 109) ? 

96. — Acidulate another portion of the milk with acetic acid or 
vinegar, warm gently, and compare with the preceding test. Filter 
through wet filter paper and save the filtrate. Apply the xantho- 
proteic reaction-' to the solid which remains on the filter paper. 

97. — Test a portion of the filtrate from Expt. 96 for the presence 
of sugar by means of the Fehling-Benedict test (page 13). 

What conclusion can be drawn from the result ? 
Do all sugars respond to this test ? 

98. — ■ Apply the iodine test (page 13) both to a portion of the 
filtrate from Expt. 96 and to a separate portion of the whole milk. 

1 Biuret Reaction. If a few drops of copper sulphate solution are added to pro- 
tein, in solution, and then an excess of caustic potash added, a red to violet colora- 
tion is produced. 

2 Xanthoproteic Reaction. When nitric acid is added to protein (either in solu- 
tion or in solid form) a yellow color is produced which, on the addition of ammonia, 
becomes bright orange. 



86 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

What conclusions are justified as to the nature of the carbohydrate 
portion of milk ? 

99. — ■ Heat milk in double boiler. 

Strain the heated mUk through a damp cheesecloth and test again 
for the xanthoproteic reaction. 

100. — Prepare 4 junket custards, using i c. sweet milk and i 
junket tablet dissolved in f tsp. cold water in each instance. Pro- 
ceed as follows : 

a. Add dissolved junket to cold milk. 

b. Add dissolved junket to warm milk. 

c. Add dissolved junket to milk and boil i minute. 

d. Add dissolved junket to cold milk. Allow a, b, and c 
to stand in room at room temperature. Pyt d in refrigerator. 

e. Compare results at end of 10 minutes. 

/. Which method has proven most satisfactory? 

g. Why? 

h. What is junket ? 

101. — Prepare 1 qt. of junket according to the most successful 
method. After the mixture has stood for i hour, cut with a knife into 
small pieces. Note results. What is the yellowish Hquid that appears ? 

102. — a. Strain mass prepared in Expt. 101 through wet cheese- 
cloth. 

b. Apply the following tests to residue and filtrate re- 
spectively : 

Biuret, page 85 
Coagulation on heating 
Xanthoproteic, page 85 
Fehling-Benedict solution, page 13 

c. What are your conclusions ? 

Milk (Sour) 

103. — Have ready milk which has been sour i day, 2 days, 3 days. 

a. Test equal volumes of each with litmus paper. 

b. Neutralize each with a solution of baking soda, testing 
with litmus paper. 

c. Note the amount of soda required in each instance. 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 87 

104. — a. Heat equal portions of each specimen of sour mUk in a 
double boiler. 

b. Note the clotting which appears. 

c. Which clots quickest and in largest quantity ? 

d. To what is this due ? 

105. — a. Add salt to each portion in double boiler in the propor- 
tion of \ tsp. to I c. of sour mUk. 

b. Note the effect. 

c. How do you explain the result ? 

106. — Strain the clotted masses from Expt. 105 through wet cheese- 
cloth and allow to hang undisturbed until filtrate no longer drips. 
Test as usual with : 

Biuret, page 85 
Xanthoproteic, page 85 
Coagulation on heating 
Fehling-Benedict solution, page 13 

107. — a. Compare the cheese obtained in Expt. 106 with that 
made from sweet milk. 

b. Note the difference in consistency, texture, and flavor. 

c. To what is this due ? 

108. — Test each specimen of sour milk with litmus paper. 

a. Which turns the paper quickest ? 

b. What acid is present in sour mUk? 

c. How does it originate ? 

(Leach, Food Inspection and Analysis) 

d. With the litmus paper still in the milk, add sufficient 
baking soda to neutralize the acid. Is a physical or chemical change 
produced ? 

e. What is the gas given off after the soda is added? 
/. In what food products is this principle applied? 

g. Test I c. of sour milk with litmus paper and determine 
how much soda it is necessary to add to neutralize the acid, 

h. Take an average of the results of the class and com- 
pare with the amount usually given in cook books. How does it 
compare ? 



88 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

109. — a. Test i c. of sweet milk with litmus and add sufficient 
vinegar to produce the same intensity of color as in 108, g. 

b. Neutralize a part of this milk with soda. 

c. Compare the amount of soda needed with 108, g. 

d. Prepare gingerbread, using the milk in 108, g in one in- 
stance and that in 109, a in the second instance. 

e. Compare the two products. Is one preferable to the 
other ? 

/. Repeat g and heat the milk until the curd separates 
out. Compare this curd with that of normally sour milk and also 
with the curd made with jrmket and sweet milk. 

g. What are the noticeable differences and to what are 
they due ? 

h. What sources of sour milk and curd have we ? 

Cheese 

Cheese has already been prepared with sweet and sour milk. 
Test now commercial cheese. 

110. — Prepare three equal weights of American cheese, A, B, C. 
Heat A in a saucepan, B in a double boiler, and C in hot rmlk. Com- 
pare results. 

111. — Prepare two equal weights of American cheese, A, B. 
Cut into small pieces and put into equal volumes of warm milk. 

a. Continue heating A in a double boiler until cheese is 
melted. Examine consistency of mixture. 

b. Continue heating B in saucepan and allow milk to boil. 
Compare result with that in a. How do you account for the differ- 
ence in appearance, consistency, and difficulty in mastication ? 

Absorption of Odors 

112. — Allow samples of butter, cream, sweet mUk, and sour milk 
to stand in a compartment by themselves in the refrigerator. Arrange 
corresponding samples in a compartment already containing cooked 
onions or cooked cauliflower. 

Allow each to stand i day. Note taste and odor of each. 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 



89 



113. — Put I tsp. of kerosene into a pitcher. Allow to stand t 
hour. Wash the pitcher thoroughly. Turn in i c. sweet milk. 
Allow this to stand i hour. Note taste and odor. 





Milk Desserts 






Junkets 




Ingredients 


Plain 


Coffee 


Chocolate 


Milk 


iqt. 


I qt. and i c. 


I qt. (i oz. chocolate 






boiled coffee 


or 2 tbsp. cocoa — 
boil 5 min. with | c. 
of the qt.) 


Sugar . . . . 


3 tbsp. 


ic. 


4 c. 


Vanilla 


I tsp. 




I tsp. 


Tablet 


I 


I 


I 


Cold water 


T tbsp. 


I tbsp. 


r tbsp. 



General Method: 

Dissolve tablet in cold water. 

Heat milk to lukewarm temperature in a double boiler. 

Add sugar and stir until dissolved. 

Add dissolved tablet and pour into serving glasses. 

Let stand at room temperature until firm. 

Place in refrigerator until ready to serve. 

Garnish with whipped cream or fruit. 

Milk and Egg Desserts 

Custards 

General Rules: 

Scald the milk in a double boiler. Beat eggs slightly, add sugar 
and salt and the scalded milk gradually. A moderate temperature 
is necessary in cooking custards to prevent curdling. Cool cup cus- 
tards before turning out. 

Soft Custards 

Cook custard in double boiler, stirring constantly until mixture 
coats the spoon. Strain. Cool and flavor. 



go LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Baked Custards 

Strain uncooked custard into cups previously wet with cold water. 
Place in pan of hot water in moderate oven until firm. 

Test : A silver knife inserted in custard will come out dean when custard 
is firm enough. 

Steamed Custards 

Place cups in a steamer or in pan of boiling water. Place towel 
under cover to absorb moisture. 

. , . Caramel 

Ingredients : 

I c. sugar I c. boiling water 

Method: 

Melt sugar in iron pan over a low flame. Move gently with a knife 
and occasionally change position of pan to prevent burning the 
sugar. When the sugar has melted to a brown sirup, add the boiling 
water and simmer a little longer. Strain. 

Caramel Custard I 
Prepare caramel and add it to the scalded milk. 
Note : The caramel is in the custard. 

Caramel Custard 11 

Prepare caramel and divide it equally among the custard cups. 
Place a spoon in the cup and pour the custard slowly down it. This 
keeps the two from mixing. 

Note : The caramel is a sauce for the custard, when turned out. 

,. Custard 

Ingredients : 

1 pt. milk 4 tbsp. sugar 

2 eggs or 4 yolks | tsp. salt 

5 tsp. vanUla 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 91 

Chocolate Custard 
5 oz. chocolate to t pt. milk 

Melt chocolate in a double boiler and add the scalded milk to it a 
teaspoonful at a time until smooth. The remainder may be added 
rapidly. 
Note : Follow directions carefully so the chocolate will not separate. 

Variations 

Floating Island 

Soft custard served in glasses with meringue on top. Garnish 
with jellies or cherries. 

Tapioca or Rice Custard 

Ingredients : 

1 c. rice or pearl tapioca | c. sugar 

2 c. milk J tsp. salt 

2 eggs I tsp. vanilla 

Method : 

Cook soaked tapioca or rice in the scalded milk. Proceed as for 
plain custard. 

a. Cook in double boiler as a soft custard. • 

b. Bake in buttered pudding dish as a baked custard. 

Bread Puddings 

Soak stale bread crumbs from inside of loaf in scalded milk 30 min- 
utes. Prepare custard with other ingredients. Bake in buttered 
pudding dish as a baked custard. 

Save whites of eggs for a meringue. 

Bread Pudding 

Ingredients : 

2 c. crumbs i tsp. salt. 

I qt. milk 2 eggs 

J c. sugar grated nutmeg 

I c. raisins or currants 



92 LABORAlORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Queen of Puddings 

Spread a baked bread pudding with jam or jelly before placing 
meringue on top. 



Ingredients : 



Chocolate Bread Pudding 



2 oz. chocolate t tsp. vanilla 

and ingredients for plain Bread Pudding 



FOOD VALUES 
Baked Custard 



MaTEEIjU, 


"S. 
3 




B 3 

1^ 


4 


5 




1! 




u 
S 







§3 

gPHg 

Sag 


^1 


Milk 


2 C. 


443-2 


14.62 


17.7 


22.16 


306 


■045 


.70 


.92 '.001 


Eggs . 


2 


98.1 


13-14 


10.3 




145 


.06 


.087 


.348.0027 


Sugar 


4 tbsp. 


SI.2 






51-2 


20 


.007 






Salt . . 


li tsp. 


















Nutmeg 


itsp. 


















Total, cooked 


4|c. 


574-3 


27.76 


28.02 


73-36 


471 


.112 


-787 


1.268 .0037 


lOO-Calorie 




















Portion 


I c. 


120.6 


5-82 


5.8 


iS-4 


100 


.023 


.165 


.266 .0007 



Rice Pudding with Eggs 



Cooked rice . 


ic. 


96.8 


2.71 


.10 


23.62 


106 


.0048 


.003 


.06 


.0003 


Milk 


ic 


III. 7 


3.67 


4.46 


5.58 


77 


.011 


• 177 


• 234 


.0007 


Egg . . . 


4 


28.5 


3-82 


2.99 




42 


.016 


■025 


.1 


.0008 


Sugar 


I tbsp. 


13.8 






13-8 


55 


.002 








Vanilla 


Itsp. 


13. 










.0022 








Total, cooked 


I c. 


214.9 


10.2 


7-SS 


43 


280 


.036 


.205 


-394 


.0013 


lOO-Calorie 






















Portion 


\c. 


76.49 


3.06 


2.26 


12.9 


100 


.01 


.006 


.011 


.0003 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 93 

References 

MUk 

Atwater. Milk as Food. United States Department of Agricul- 
ture, Farmers' Bulletin 74 (1904). 

Buchanan. Household Bacteriology. 

Conn. Bacteria in Milk and its Products. 

Cunningham. The Production of Clean Milk. Ohio State Univer- 
sity, Agricultural College, Farmers' Reading Course (1913). 

EcKLES. Dairy Cattle and Milk Production. 

Faeeington and Woll. Testing MUk and its Products. 

Guthrie. Cream Separation. Cornell Reading Courses. Dairy- 
ing Series No. 5 (1915). 

Harcourt. Food Value of Milk and its Products. Ontario Agri- 
cultural College. Toronto (1914). 

Kelly. Medical Milk Commissions and Certified Milk. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, 
No. I (1913). 

Lawson. Inexpensive Aids in Producing Sanitary Milk. The Mary- 
land Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 181 (1914). 

Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

MiLNER. The Use of Milk as Food. United States Department of 
Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 363 (1911). 

Pearson. Facts about Milk. United States Agricultural Depart- 
ment, Farmers' Bulletin 42 (1906). 

Rogers. Bacteria in Milk. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Farmers' Bulletin 490 (1912). 

Rogers. Direction for the Home Pasteurization of Milk. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, 
Circular 197 (191 2). 

Rosenau. Milk in its Relation to the Public Health. United States 
Public Health Service, Hygienic Laboratory, Bulletin 56. 

Rosenau. The Milk Question. 

Savage. Milk and the PubHc Health. 

Sherman. Food Products. 

Sherman. Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. 



94 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Sherman. Methods of Organic Analysis. 

SwiTHiNBANK and Neumann. Bacteriology of Milk. 

Van Slyke. Modern Methods of Testmg Milk and Milk Products. 

Wing. Milk and its Products. 

Whitaker, Rogers, and Hunt. The Care of Milk and its Use in 

the Home. United States Department of Agriculture; Farmers' 

Bulletin 413 (1913). 

Butter 

Clevenger. Buttermaking. Ohio State University, Agricultural 

CoUege, Farmers' Reading Course. 
Fareington and Meyers. A Comparison of AnUine and Anatto 

Butter Colors in Buttermaking. University of Wisconsin, 

Agricultural Experiment Station. 
GujHRlE. Farm Butter Making. Cornell Reading Courses, vol. 3, 

No. 60, Dairying Series No. 4. 
Hastings. The Propagation of Pure Starters for Butter and Cheese 

Making. The University of Wisconsin, Agricultural Experi- 
mental Station. 
Patrick. Household Tests for the Detection of Oleomargarine and 

Renovated Butter. United States Department of Agriculture, 

Farmers' Bulletin 131. 
Rasmussen. A Study of Farm Buttermaking in New Hampshire. 

New Hampshire Agricultural Experiment Station, Durham, 

New Hampshire. 



CHAPTER VII 
CHEESE 

Cheese is made from milk or cream by coagulating the casein 
with rennet or lactic acid. Ripening ferments, seasonings, and 
coloring matter may be added. Cheese is divided into two 
main types : the hard cheeses such as Cheddar, Edam, Swiss, 
Parmesan, and Roquefort; and the soft cheeses such as Brie, 
Camembert, Limburg, Neufchatel, Gorgonzola, and Stilton. 
Much of the larger part of the cheese made in this country is of 
the type of the Cheddar cheese and is known as American 
Cheddar cheese. The process of making Cheddar cheese is 
divided into several distinct steps as follows : (i) inspection of 
milk, (2) ripening of milk, (3) addition of color, (4) coagulating 
the milk, (5) cutting the curd, (6) stirring and heating the curd, 
(7) removing whey, (8) cheddaring the curd, (9) milling the 
curd, (10) salting and pressing, (11) ripening or curing the cheese. 
For full description of these steps see Sherman's Food Products, 
pages 89-94. 

The different varieties of whole milk cheese do not differ 
greatly from an average composition of about one third water, 
one third fat, and one fourth protein (the small remainder being 
mainly salt). The fat is in a finely divided state and is chem- 
ically the same as butter fat. The protein is more or less 
digested casein (some albumin). The ripening process changes 
the proteins not only to soluble proteins, but to proteoses, 
peptones, amino acids, and ammonia. The ash is high in cal- 
cium, phosphorus, sulphur, and iron and sodium and chlorine 
from the salting. Cheese is a very concentrated food, so should 

95 



96 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

be eaten in small quantities to avoid danger of irritation of the 
stomach. Cheese may be used interchangeably with meats 
and fish, and the time is coming when it wUl occupy a more 
prominent place in the dietary than it does at present. For- 
eign cheeses are expensive, but American cheese may be classed 
among the most economical of the high protein foods. 



Eggs with Cheese I 

Ingredients ; 

3 hard-cooked eggs few grains cayenne 

I tbsp. flour J c. grated cheese 

I c. milk 4 slices toast 

5 tsp. salt 
Method : 

Make a thin white sauce with the flour and milk and seasonings. 
Add the cheese and stir imtfl melted. Chop the whites and add them 
to the sauce. Pour the sauce over the toast, force the yolks through 
a potato ricer or strainer, sprinkle over the toast. 

Eggs with Cheese 11 

Ingredients : 

4 eggs ; tsp. salt 

I c. or 4 oz. grated cheese few grains cayenne 

I c. stale bread crumbs 
Method : 

Break the eggs into a buttered baking dish or into ramekins and 
cook them in a hot oven until they begin to turn white around the 
edge. Cover with the mixture of crumbs, cheese, and seasonings. 
Brown in a very hot oven. 



Eggs with Cheese in 

Ingredients : 

5 lb. cheese grated or i tbsp. chopped parsley 

cut into small pieces few grains nutmeg 

8 eggs 5 tsp. salt 



CHEESE 97 

Method : 

Beat the eggs slightly, mix them with the other ingredients, cook 
over a very slow fire, stirring constantly, so that the cheese may be 
melted by the time the eggs are cooked. 

Cheese Fondue I 

Ingredients : 

i|^ c. soft bread crumbs 4 eggs 

i| c. grated cheese i c. hot water 

I tsp. salt 
Method : 

Mix the water, bread crumbs, salt, and cheese ; add the yolks 
thoroughly beaten ; into this mixture cut and fold the whites of eggs 
beaten until stiff. Pour the mixture into a buttered baking dish 
and bake 30 minutes in a moderate oven. Serve at once. 

Cheese Fondue II 



Ingredients : 




ij c. hot milk 


I tbsp. butter 


i^ c. stale bread crumbs 


4 eggs 


i-| c. grated cheese 


1 tsp. salt 



Method : 

Heat the mUk in a double boiler, add the crumbs and allow the 
mixture to stand 15 minutes in hot water. Beat the yolks of eggs 
and mix thoroughly with the milk and crumbs. Add the butter, 
cheese, and salt. Fold in the stifHy beaten whites, pour into a but- 
tered baking dish and bake 30 minutes in a moderate oven. Serve 
at once. 

Cheese Fondue III 

Ingredients : 

ij c. bread crumbs i egg 

i^ c. warm milk 2 tbsp. butter 

i| c. cheese 8 crackers (warmed) 

seasoning 
Method : 

Allow the bread to soak in the warm milk 10 minutes. Add the 
butter and cheese to this mixture and when the cheese is melted, add 



98 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

the eggs slightly beaten. Add the seasoning and allow the whole 
mixture to cook in a double boiler until thick. Serve at once on 
warmed crackers. 

Cheese Omelet I 

Cheese may be made into omelets in several ways. An omelet may 
be served with thin cheese sauce made in the following proportions : 

I J tbsp. flour 
J c. grated cheese 
I c. milk 

This sauce may also be added to omelets in which boUed rice, minced 
meat, or some other nutritious material has been included. 

Cheese Omelet II 
Grated cheese may be sprinkled over an omelet before it is served. 

Cheese Omelet III 

Ingredients : 

yolks of 2 eggs salt and pepper 

2 tbsp. hot water whites of 4 eggs 

I c. grated cheese i tbsp. butter 

Method: 

Beat the yolks until lemon-colored and add the hot water and the 

seasoning. Beat the whites until they are stiff, and add the cheese. 

Cut and fold the two mixtures together. Proceed as for Foamy 

Omelet. 

Welsh Rarebit I 

Ingredients : 

J lb. cheese, grated cayenne 

J c. cream or mUk i egg 

5 tsp. mustard 2 tsp. butter 

5 tsp. salt dry toast 

Method : 

Put the cheese and milk or cream into a double boiler. Mix the 
mustard, salt, and cayenne. Add the egg and beat well. When the 



CHEESE 



99 



cheese is melted, stir in the mixture of dry ingredients and egg, then 
the butter, and cook until it thickens. Stir constantly. Pour it 
over hot toast. 

Welsh Rarebit II 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. butter i tsp. mustard 

I lb. soft mUk cheese, cut few grains cayeime 

in small pieces i c. mUk 

I tsp. salt 2 eggs 

Method : 

Put butter in chafing dish and when melted add the cheese and 
seasonings ; as cheese melts, add milk gradually, stirring constantly ; 
then eggs beaten slightly. When eggs are cooked and mixture has 
thickened, serve on crackers or bread toasted on one side, rarebit 
being poured over untoasted side. A rarebit should be smooth and 
of creamy consistency, never stringy. 



Red Bunny 



I c. mUk 



f c. stewed and 

strained tomatoes 
I lb. cheese 



2 tbsp. butter 

2 tbsp. flour 

J tsp. soda 

2 eggs 

seasonings 
Method : 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and mUk. When 
thoroughly cooked add the cheese cut in fine pieces, the eggs slightly 
beaten, and the seasonings. Let this mixture cook until the cheese 
is melted and the eggs cooked. Have ready toasted whole wheat or 
graham bread and when ready to serve add the soda to the hot tomato, 
stir this into the cheese mixture and serve at once. 



Ingredients : 

I qt. milk 

1 junket tablet 

2 tbsp. sugar 
yolks of 2 eggs 



Cheese Cakes 



few grains nutmeg 
3 tbsp. butter 
2 tbsp. currants or 
small raisins 



lOO LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Warm the milk and add the dissolved junket tablet. Let the 
milk stand until the curd forms, then break up the curd and strain 
off the whey. Add the other ingredients to the curd; line patty 
tins with pastry, fill them with the mixture, and bake. 

Cheese Souffle with Pastry 

Ingredients: 

2 eggs i c. Swiss cheese cut 
f c. thin cream in small pieces 
salt, cayenne, and i c. grated cheese 

nutmeg 
Method : 

Add the eggs to the cream and beat slightly, then add the cheese 
and seasoning. Bake 15 minutes in a hot oven, in patty tins lined 
with puff paste. 

Cheese Custard 

Ingredients : 

I c. grated cheese yolks of 2 eggs 

5 c. cream or rich milk salt and paprika 

Method : 

Mix the cream and the cheese and heat untU the cheese is melted. 
Remove from the fire and add the yolks of the eggs and seasonings. 
Bake in buttered ramekins. Serve with jelly or preserves. 

Scalloped Apples with Cheese 
Substitute riced cream cheese for butter in Scalloped Apples. 

Milk and Cheese Soup 

Ingredients : 

3 c. milk 1 c. grated cheese 
i^ tbsp. flour salt and paprika 

Thicken the milk with the flour, cooking thoroughly. When ready 
to serve, add the cheese and the seasoning. 



CHEESE 



lOI 



Vegetable and Cheese Soup 

Ingredtents : 

2 c. stock 2 tbsp. butter 

2 tbsp. finely chopped carrots 2 tbsp. flour 

I tbsp. chopped onion i| tsp. salt 

I blade of mace i c. scalded millc 
I c. grated cheese 
Method : 

Cook the vegetables a short time in one half of the butter, add the 
stock and the mace, boUing 15 to 20 minutes. Strain and add the 
milk. Thicken with flour cooked in the remaining butter. Just 
before serving, add the cheese and cook until it is melted. 

Cheese Loaf 

A cheese loaf is a mixture of grated cheese, bread crumbs, and 
chopped legumes or nuts. Vegetable stock is added to make of the 
right consistency to shape into a loaf. Bake in a moderate oven, 
basting frequently with butter and water. Spinach, lettuce, or beet 
tops may be substituted for legumes. 



Bean Loaf 

Ingredients : 

1 lb. cooked beans 
5 lb. English dairy cheese 

Method (as above). 

Lima Bean Loaf 

Ingredients : 

2 c. cooked lima beans 
J lb. cream cheese 

Method (as above). 

Nut Loaf 

Ingredients : 

I c. grated cheese 

I c. chopped English walnuts 

1 c. bread crumbs 

2 tbsp. chopped onion 
Method (as above). 



bread crumbs 
salt and pepper 



bread crumbs 
3 pimentoes 



I tbsp. butter 
juice of 5 lemon 
salt and pepper 



I02 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Spinach Loaf 

Ingredients : 

2 qts. spinach (cooked) salt 

I c. grated cheese bread crumbs 

I tbsp. butter 
Method (as above). 

Cheese with Tomato and Com 

Ingredients : 

I tbsp. butter 2 c. grated cheese 

f c. corn I pimento 

5 c. tomato puree 2 egg yolks 

I tsp. salt I tsp. paprika 

Method : 

Heat the puree in a double boiler, add the butter, com, salt, pa- 
prika, and pimento. When the mixture is hot, add the grated cheese; 
and when the cheese is nearly melted, add the egg yolks slightly beaten. 
AUow the total mixture to cook until thick. Serve on toasted bread. 

Italian Rice 

Ingredients : 

1 c. rice i tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. butter 5 c. grated cheese 

2 c. tomatoes 4 tbsp. chopped green pepper 

Method : 

Wash rice and cook in boOing water until soft. !Melt butter in 
saucepan, add green pepper and sauter s minutes ; add cooked rice, 
tomatoes, and salt. Let cook until tomatoes are soft. Add grated 
cheese and continue cooking until cheese is melted. Serve at once. 

Turkish Pilaf 

Ingredients : 

5 c. rice i tbsp. butter 

2 c. boiling water salt 

I c. tomatoes pepper 



CHEESE 103 

Method : 

Wash rice and brown in the butter. Add water and steam until 
water is absorbed. Add the tomatoes and cook until rice is soft. 
Season. A little grated cheese may be added. 

Cheese Balls 

Ingredients : 

i| c. grated cheese cayenne 

I tbsp. flour whites 3 eggs 

J tsp. salt cracker dust 

Method : 

Mix cheese with flour and seasonings. Beat whites of eggs until 

stifi and add to the first mixture. Shape in smaU baUs, roU in cracker 

dust, fry in deep fat, and drain on brown paper. Serve with salad 

course. 



Cheese Straws 
Ingredients : 


I 


I c. grated cheese 


J tsp. salt 


I c. fresh bread crumbs 


i tsp. pepper 


f c. flour 


cayenne 


I tbsp. butter 


I tbsp. milk 



Method : 

Cream the butter, add flour, crumbs, grated cheese, and seasonings ; 
mix thoroughly ; add mUk. RoU \ inch thick, cut \ iach wide and 
6 inches long. Bake until brown in a moderate oven. Serve with 
salad course. 

Cheese Straws 11 

RoH out plain or puff paste until one fourth of an inch thick. 
Spread one half of it with grated cheese. Fold over the other half 
and roll out again. Repeat the process three or four times. Cut 
into strips and bake. Serve with soup or salad course. 

Cheese Gingerbread I 

Ingredients : 

I c. molasses 2 c. flour 

4 oz. cheese 2 tsp. ginger 

I tsp. soda i tsp. salt 
i c. water 



104 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Heat the molasses and the cheese in a double boiler until the cheese 
is melted. Add the soda and stir vigorously. Mix and sift dry 
ingredients and add them to the molasses and cheese alternately with 
the water. Bake 15 minutes in small buttered tins. 

Cheese Gingerbread 11 

Ingredients : 

5 c. molasses I tsp. soda 

1 c. sugar 2 tsp. ginger 
4 oz. cheese 5 tsp. salt 

2 c. flour I c. water 

Method : 

Rub the cheese and the sugar together. Add the molasses. Mix 
and sift the dry ingredients and add them to the cheese mixture alter- 
nately with the water. 

FOOD VALUES 
Macaroni and Cheese 

























Material 


p 


^0 


So 


4 


h 

go ■ 


(A 

^c3 


5 





W'3 


"0 














$ 


u 


a.U 










•^ 








Macaroni . 


ic. 


42 


S-S5 


•37 


29.12 


1,50 


.0127 


.OI2 


.144 


.0006 


Cheese 


ic. 


24 


6.S 


8.6 


.07 


100 


.0125 


•25 


-329 


.0003 


Milk 


ic 


ISO 


4.7 


6 


7-5 


100 


-015 


•2.39 


■303 


.0003 


Butter . . 


2 tbsp. 


39 


•39 


23-15 




300 


.002 


.009 


.012 




Flour . 


2 tbsp. 


16.8 


I.S8 


.16 


12.58 


so 


.0015 


.004 


.02 s 


.0002 


Bread crumbs 


ic. 


22 


1.80 


.26 


11-59 


50 


.003 


-005 


-037 


.0002 


Total, cooked 


2 c. 


323 


20.58 


38.57 


60.86 


7,50 


.0477 


-510 


.850 


.0016 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion ' . 


ic. 


71.99 


2-73 


5-12 


8.09 


100 


.0063 


.069 


-113 


.00c 2 



'Also called Standard Portion (S. P.). 



CHEESE 
Rice with Cheese and Tomatoes 



loS 

























Material 




|o 


go 


01 


< 
u 


^5 




$ 


US 




gSSg 


My 


Raw rice . . 


ic. 


I CO 


7-9 


•2Q 


78.6 


.S.io 


.0218 


.01 


.19 


.001 


Tomatoes 


I c. 


230 


2.77 


.46 


9.24 


.■io 


.0231 


■043 


•125 


.0008 


Butter . . 


I tbsp. 


14 


• 14 


II.9 




108 


.0109 


.003 


.004 




Cheese . . 


2 OZ. 


56.7 


i6.,S 


2^3 




250 


• 031° 


.623 


.82 


.0007 


Salt . . . 


I tsp. 




















Total 


2ic. 


524-1 


27.11 


.S4.Q,S 


87.84 


r.ss 


.0868 


•679 


i-i,S9 


.0025 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion ' . 


ic. 


68.1 


3-S8 


4-53 


II-S9 


TOO 


.0112 


.089 


•IS 


.0003 



RErERENCES 



Cheese 



Buchanan. Household Bacteriology. 

Conn. Bacteria in MUk and its Products. 

DoANE. The Digestibility of Cheese. United States Department 

of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, Circular 166 

(1911). 
DoANE and Lawson. Varieties of Cheese : Descriptions and 

Analysis. United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau 

of Animal Industry, Bulletin 105. 
GiRONCi, M. ItaHan Recipes, translated and arranged by. 
Langworthy and Hunt. Cheese and its Economical Uses in the 

Diet. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' 

Bulletin 487 "(1912). 
Larson and White. Dairy Technology. 
Marshall. Microbiology. 
Sherman. Food Products. 

1 Also called Standard Portion (S. P.). 



Io6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Stoltz. Some Dairy By-products : Fermented Milk, Pimento 
Cheese. Ohio State University, Agricultural College, Farmers' 
Reading Course (1913). 

Van Slyke and Publow. The Science and Practice of Cheese 
Making. 

Wiley. Foods and their Adulterations. 

Wing. MUk and its Products. 



CHAPTER VIII 
EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 

Eggs have been used for food from the earliest times to the 
present day. WhUe those of other fowl are also eaten, hens' 
eggs are so far the most common that they wUl be understood 
when the term eggs is used — though most of the statements 
made would apply to the eggs of other fowl also. 

The nutrients of eggs are interesting in their nature and will 
be studied experimentally as described below. For statements 
of the quantitative composition see Leach's Food Inspection 
and Analysis, Chapter IX, and Sherman's Food Products, 
Chapter V. From the place of eggs in nature and from the 
results of nutrition experiments we know that the constituents 
of eggs are adapted to serve as material for the construction of 
muscle, bone, and blood. 

The best egg is naturally one strictly fresh. Newly laid 
eggs may be preserved by cold storage or water glass (sodium 
or potassium silicate). Other methods practiced to some ex- 
tent and more or less successfully are packing the eggs in saw- 
dust, salt, or lime, or coating the shell with lard, paraffin, or wax. 
Cold storage and the use of water glass are the best methods. 
Other methods are less effective and are apt to impart a dis- 
agreeable flavor. 

EXPERIMENTS 

114. — Determine: a. about how many unbroken eggs there are in 
a pound. 

b. how many eggs minus the shell there are in a pound. 
107 



Io8 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

c. how many tablespoonfuls in i whole egg : 

1. unbeaten. 

2. beaten. 

d. how many tablespoonfuls in the beaten yolk and white, 
respectively. 

115. — Examine with a hand lens a portion of egg shell. Note 
its porous condition. Examine an egg shell which has been im- 
mersed in water glass. How does this differ from that first examined ? 
Explain the difference. What is water glass? How does water 
glass preserve eggs? 

116. — Various other preservatives are used to keep eggs. Ex- 
plain the use of the following : 

lime lard 

paraffin sawdust 

vaseline cold storage 

Cooking of Eggs. Temperature and Time 

117. — For this experiment select saucepans of uniform size, shape, 
and material, using i pint of water in each case. 

a. boil egg rapidly for t minute ) have the water boiling 

b. boil egg rapidly for 3 minutes] when the egg is immersed. 

c. put egg in water at 80° C, cover and let stand for 
10 minutes. 

d. put egg in cold water and bring to the boiling point. 

e. boil an egg for 10 minutes. 
/. boil an egg for 20 minutes. 

g. put an egg in water at 80° C, cover and allow to stand 
for 45 minutes. 

h. put an egg in water at boiling point, cover and allow 
to stand 45 minutes. 

118. — Arrange a repetition of the above experiment so that eggs 
wiU be ready to remove from shell at the same time. Remove 
egg from shell. Examine and compare yolks and whites as to tex- 
ture, ease of removing from shell, firmness of white, toughness of 
white. 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 109 

119. — Remove eggs from shell and cook as follows, using i pt. of 
water in each instance. Use first an iron frying pan, then an agate 
or enamel pan. Compare the results. 

a. Poach egg in hot water until yolk is coated. (Save the 
water.) 

b. Repeat, using i tsp. salt in water. 

c. Repeat, using i tsp. vinegar in water. 

d. Turn egg into boUing water, remove from bimsen burner, 
cover and let stand 2 minutes. 

e. Compare each result as to texture, firmness of yolk, 
taste. Save the water in each instance for the next experiment. 

120. — Examine the water used in Expt. 119, a, with the following 

tests : 

Biuret, page 85 

Xanthoproteic, page 85 

Iodine, page 13 

Fehling-Benedict solution, page 13 

Filter a little of the water used in 119 and heat filtrate. 
Conclusions ? 

121. — Beat an egg white until stiff, fold in 3 tbsp. granulated 
sugar. Drop by spoonfuls on to a greased paper and bake in a slow 
oven until brown. Try to remove | of the meringue at once. Allow 
the remainder to stand until cold. Remove. Compare with those 
removed while warm. Explain the difference. 

Soft-cooked Egg 

Ingredients : 

I egg I c. boiling water 

Method : 

Place boiling water in a saucepan. Put unbroken egg carefully 
in saucepan, cover pan and let stand 5 minutes. 

Hard-cooked Egg 
Prepare as soft-cooked, but allow egg to remain in water 45 minutes. 



no LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Coddled Egg 

Butter a ramekin. Break an egg carefully into a saucer and slip 
into the ramekin. Place in a pan of boiling water and cook imtU 
the white is firm. 

Shirred or Baked Egg 

Prepare as coddled egg. Cook in a pan of water in the oven. 
Ramekins may be lined with seasoned buttered crumbs and egg 
covered with the crumbs. 

Poached Egg 

Rub the bottom of an omelet pan lightly with butter. Fill pan 
three fourths full of boiling water. Break an egg into a saucer and 
flip into the boiling water. Lower flame so the water wUl not boil, 
and allow egg to remain in the water 3-10 minutes. If the water does 
not cover the yolk, dip water over it carefully with a spoon until a film 
forms over yolk. Remove with a skimmer to a slice of buttered 
toast and garnish with parsley. 

Scrambled Eggs 

Ingredients : 

5 eggs i tsp. pepper 

i c. milk \ tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. butter 
Method : 

Beat eggs slightly, add seasonings and milk. Heat omelet pan, 
put in butter, and when melted pour in the mixture. Cook until 
creamy, stirring and scraping from the bottom of the pan. 

Omelets 

For omelets select large eggs. Use i tbsp. of liquid and | tsp. of 
salt for each egg. Never try to make an omelet using more than 4 
eggs, as mixture will brown before being cooked through. Keep an 
omelet pan especially for omelets and see that it is kept clean and 
smooth. 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES III 

Foamy Omelet 

Ingredients : 

2 eggs 2 tbsp. milk or water 

I tsp. salt cayenne or white pepper 

1 tsp. butter 

Method: 

Beat yolks of eggs until light and creamy; add seasonings and milk. 
Beat the whites until stiff, but not dry; cut into yolks. Heat an 
omelet pan, rub it with butter, pour in the mixture and spread it 
evenly on the pan. Cook over low flame. When set, put in hot 
oven for a few minutes to dry on top. Fold and serve at once. 

French Omelet 

4 eggs i tsp. pepper 

4 tbsp. milk 5 tsp. salt 

2 tsp. butter 

Method : 

Beat eggs slightly, enough to blend yolks and whites. Add milk 
and seasonings. Put butter in hot omelet pan ; when melted, pour 
in mixture and place over a low flame. As it cooks draw the edges 
toward the center with a knife untU the whole is of a creamy con- 
sistency. Place on hotter part of range that it may brown quickly. 
Fold and turn on hot platter. 

Additions: 

Grated cheese, jelly, jam, chopped meats, peas, or parsley placed 
in omelet before folding, or a highly seasoned tomato sauce may be 
served around it. 

Egg-in-Nest 

Arrange stiffly beaten white of an egg on a slice of buttered toast. 
Make a depression in the center and drop in the unbeaten yolk. 
Sprinkle with salt. Brown in a moderate oven. 



112 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Scrambled Eggs with Tomato Sauce 

Ingredients : 

6 eggs 4 tbsp. butter 

if c. tomatoes i slice onion 

2 tbsp. sugar I tsp. salt 

J tsp. pepper 
Method : 

Simmer tomatoes and sugar five minutes ; brown butter and onion 
three minutes ; remove onion and add tomatoes, seasonings, and eggs 
slightly beaten. Cook as scrambled eggs. 

Eggs & la Goldenrod 

Ingredients : 

3 hard-cooked eggs | tsp. salt 

I tbsp. butter \ tsp. pepper 

I tbsp. flour 5 slices toast 

I c. mQk parsley 

Method : 

Make a thin white sauce with butter, flour, milk, and seasonings. 
Remove yolks from hard-cooked eggs. Chop whites finely and add 
to the sauce. Cut four slices of toast in halves lengthwise ; arrange 
on platter, and pour over the sauce. Force the yolks through a 
potato ricer or strainer, and sprinkle them over the top. Garnish 
with parsley and remaining toast cut in points. 

" Liquid Glass " for Preserving Eggs 

Ingredients : 

I qt. " liquid glass " (a concentrated commercial solution of 

sodium silicate). 
9 qts. boiled and cooled water. 

Method : 

Mix the liquid glass and boiled water in a clean crock or stone jar. 
Carefully wipe strictly fresh eggs and with a spoon or other con- 
venient utensil place the eggs in the crock. The crock may be 
filled with eggs to the point of the liquid just covering the top layer. 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 



"3 



Cover the crock with tin cover or stone cover. It does not need to 
be air-tight. When removing eggs from the crock, do so with a spoon. 
Wash them carefully and, if they are to be boiled, prick the shell. 
The pores of the shell are filled with the liquid glass and as the air 
and water within the shell expand with the heat, the shell is likely to 
explode and thus spoil the egg as a " hard-cooked " product. 



FOOD VALUE 
Scrambled Egg 













W 






^ 






Material 


1 


as 


§1 


-5 


< 

u 


If 


H 

s 

$ 


5r 


So 
1^^ 


If 














u 


CL.U 














u 








^ 




Egg 


I 


45- 


6.03 


4.72 




67 


.0366 


■039 


.157 


.0012 


Milk 


if tbsp. 


22. 


.72 


.88 


1.09 


n 


.0022 


•034 


•04s 


.0001 


Butter .... 


* tbsp. 


7-8 


.07 


6.63 




60 


.004.1; 


.0018 


.0024 




Salt 






















Pepper .... 






















Total, cooked . 


|c. 


6l.2 


6.82 


12.22 


1.09 


142 


■04,S,S 


.0748 


.2044 


.0013 


loo-CjJorie Portion' 


ic. 


42.8 


4-77 


8.SS 


.76 


100 


■03 


•0523 


• 143 


.0008 



SOUFFLES 

SoufHes are combinations of cooked or uncooked mixtures and 
stiffly beaten whites of eggs baked in a moderate oven. They should 
be served immediately. A sauce improves fruit souffles. 

Whips are the same combinations unbaked and piled lightly in 
glasses for serving. 

Essentials for Successful SouflSes 
Good eggs. 
Stiffly beaten whites. 

Buttered molds, — buttered and sugared for fruit souffles. 
Very moderate oven. 

' Also called Standard Portion (S. P.). 
I 



114 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Souffles 

Varieties : 

I. Made with a white sauce : 

a. Meat, fish, rice, cheese. 

b. Custard. 

II. Made without a white sauce : 

a. Vegetable. 

b. Fruit. 

Fruit Souffle 

Ingredients : 

f c. pulp sweetened 3 egg whites 

salt 
Method : 

Fresh, dried, or canned fruit may be used. Drain sirup from 
canned fruit. Press pulp through a strainer and add to the stiffly 
beaten whites. Use a Dover beater and continue beating untU very 
light. Place in buttered, sugared molds in pan of warm water. 
Bake in a moderate oven until firm. 

Custard Souffle 

Ingredients : 

3 tbsp. butter i c. scalded miUi 

I c. flour 4 eggs 

5 c. sugar T tsp. vanilla 

Method : 

Melt butter, add flour, and gradually hot milk ; when well thick- 
ened pour on yolks of eggs beaten until thick and lemon-colored, and 
mixed with sugar; cool, and cut and fold in whites of eggs beaten 
stiff and dry. Turn into buttered pudding dish, place in a pan of 
warm water, and bake in a moderate oven until firm. 



Lemon Souffle 

Ingredients : 

Yolks 4 eggs I c. sugar 

Grated rind and juice i lemon whites 4 eggs 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 115 

Method : 

Beat yolks until thick and lemon-colored, add sugar gradually 
and continue beating, add the lemon rind and juice. Cut and fold 
in whites of eggs beaten until dry. Bake as Custard Souffle. 

Vegetable Souffle 

Wash, peel, and mash vegetables as in preparing mashed potatoes. 
Moisten with nulk or cream. Fold in the beaten yolks and stiffly 
beaten whites. Bake as Custard Souffle. 

Corn and Cheese Souffle 

Ingredients : 

1 tbsp. butter i c. chopped corn 
T tbsp. chopped green pepper i c. grated cheese 
J c. flour 3 eggs 

2 c. mUk I tsp. salt 

Method : 

Melt the butter and heat the pepper in it for 2 minutes. Add 
the flour, and stir the milk in slowly. When the white sauce is thick- 
ened, add the corn, cheese, yolks of eggs, and seasonings. Cut and 
fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Bake as Custard Souffle. 

Meat Souffle 

Ingredients : 

1 c. thick white sauce J-i c. cooked meat, poultry, 
i-S eggs or fish 

Method : 

Mix meat with warm sauce. Season highly. Cool and fold in 
stiffly beaten yolks and stiffly beaten whites. Bake as Custard 
Souffle. 

Cheese Souffle 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. butter few grains cayenne 

3 tbsp. flour \ c. grated Old English or 
I c. scalded milk Yotmg America cheese 

f tsp. salt yolks 3 eggs 

whites 3 eggs 



Il6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Melt butter, add flour, and, when well mixed, add scalded milk 
gradually. Then add salt, cayenne, and cheese. Remove from 
fire. Add yolks of eggs beaten until lemon-colored. Cool mixture 
and cut and fold in whites of eggs beaten until stiff and dry. Bake 
as Custard Souffle. 

EXPERIMENTS WITH DEEP FAT FRYING 

122. — a. Prepare potato chips by the following methods : 

Raw potato sliced very thin. 
Parboil potato and slice very thin. 
Raw potato soaked in ice water 20 minutes. 
Raw potato soaked in salt solution (2 tsp. salt to 2 c. 
ice water) 20 minutes. 
In each case dry the potato carefully before immersing in the fat 
or oil. 

b. Prepare deep fat, using the following fats and oils : 

lard cottonseed oil 

crisco peanut oil 

oUve oil corn oil 

Arrange utensUs and fats and oils so that the heating may begin at 
the same time. Note initial temperatures and length of time re- 
quired for the medium tq reach the proper temperatures for deep fat 
frying. Test constantly with a slice of raw unsoaked potato, and 
when each has reached the required temperature fry samples of the 
potato prepared in a separately in each medium. Note the tem- 
peratures of each fat or oil, the length of time required for frying 
each potato, and the character of the product. 

123. — If a thermometer of sufficient range is available, deter- 
mine the temperature at which each of the above fats shows 
evidence of being decomposed by heat. What is the evidence in 
each case? 

In a recent study by Blunt and Feeney {Journal of Home Eco- 
nomics, Vol. VII, page S3s) the temperatures at which certain fats 
begin to give off visible fumes are reported as follows : 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 117 

Cottonseed oil (Wesson) 233° C. 

Snowdrift 232° C. 

Crisco 231° C. 

Leaf lard 221° C. 

Butter fat 208° C. 

Leaf lard (heated 5 hours) 207" C. 

Bulk lard 194° c. 

A much-used lard 190° C. 

Olive oil iy^° C 

Peanut oil I . 162° C. 

Peanut oil II . 149° C. 

Coconut oil 136° C. 

How do your results compare with these? Where results differ, 
is the difference attributable to differing conditions of experimenta- 
tion or to variation in the material tested ? 

124. — a. Prepare doughnuts, using the recipe in the book. Roll 
them to uniform thickness and cut with the same cutter. 

b. Arrange the following fats and oils in utensils of uniform 
size and shape and begin heating at the same time : 

Fats: 

lard oHve oil 

5 lard, J crisco peanut oil 

crisco corn oil 

beef drippings mutton drippings 

c. Note the initial temperatures of each fat or oil, and test- 
ing constantly with the doughnut mixture, find the proper temper- 
ature for each medium for an uncooked flour mixture. 

d. Fry doughnuts in each fat and oil. Note the flavor of 
the product, the amount of fat absorbed, the color. Allow samples 
of each cooked doughnut to remain in a tin box and note the rapidity 
with which each becomes dry and hard. 

125. — a. Prepare rice croquettes. Shape croquettes, using ap- 
proximately the same amount of mixture in each croquette, measur- 
ing in level tablespoons. Fry croquettes in each of the above fats 
and oils immediately after using them for doughnuts. Note the 



Il8 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

flavor of the croquettes, the absorption of odor of doughnuts, the 
color, crispness of the crust. 

b. Summarize your conclusions as to the appropriateness 
of each fat or oil as a frying medium. 

126. — Using the optimum temperatures for frying for each fat 
or on, test the frying of a piece of bread. Note the number of seconds 
required by each fat to brown the bread. Does it prove the usual 
statement, " 40 seconds required for browning a piece of bread is 
sufficient for browning a cooked mixture — as croquettes ; 60 sec- 
onds is required for cooking and browning an uncooked mixture "? 

127. — Cut up in small pieces, weigh, and sauter equal quantities of 
boiled potato in unit quantities of each of the fats and oils. Weigh 
again and determine which fat is most easily absorbed by the potato. 

128. — From your correlated reading and experiments what do you 
conclude as to the wholesomeness of deep fat frying or sauteing of 
food as a method of cooking ? 

Croquettes 

Croquettes are made with a base of meat, fish, egg, cheese, nuts, 
rice, beans, or other vegetables. These need to be combined with 
either white sauce, egg, starchy vegetables as potato, rice, cereals, 
or crumbs. 

The crumbs: 

Use crumbs from outside of loaf for first coating, use crumbs from 
inside of loaf for second coating. 
Season crumbs before using. 
Cracker crumbs are not desirable as they give a " pasty " crust. 

The egg: 

The whole egg is preferable. Add water equal to volume of egg. 
Beat slightly. 
If white alone is used, add to each white J tbsp. oil, j tbsp. water. 
If yolk is used alone, add i tbsp. cold water to each yolk. 

Note : The white alone gives a tough crust ; the yolk gives a tender crust. 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 1 19 

The fat for frying : 

The fat should be unburned lard, or crisco, free from particles of 
previous frying. 

Use a flat-bottom frying kettle, keep an iron gas spreader over the 
gas jet, and do not allow fat to bubble to rim of kettle. 

Test fat, timing the- browning of a piece of bread. Fry croquettes 
made with previously cooked mixtures about 40 seconds. Fry 
"roquettes made with uncooked mixture 60 seconds. 

Drain croquettes on absorbent brown paper. Croquettes may be 
reheated in the oven or double boiler. 



Rice Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

i c. rice 5 tsp. salt 

2-3 tbsp. milk -jt tsp. pepper 

1 egg cayenne 

2 tbsp. butter 2 tbsp. chopped parsley 

Method : 

Boil rice. Add milk, butter, seasonings, and beaten egg. Cook 
in a double boiler and cool. Form into balls, roll in sifted crumbs, 
shape, dip in egg, and reshape. ChUl. Fry in deep fat. 



Potato Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

2 c. hot riced potatoes cayenne 

2 tbsp. butter few drops onion juice 

I tsp. salt yolk i egg 

I tsp. pepper i tsp. finely chopped parsley 

I tsp. celery salt milk if necessary 

Method : 

Add ingredients in order given to the potatoes. 
Proceed as for Rice Croquettes. 



I20 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Cheese Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

3 tbsp. butter i c. cheese cut in small cubes 

i c. flour 5 c. grated Parmesan cheese 

f c. milk. I tsp. salt 

yolks 2 eggs paprika 

Method : 

Make a white sauce of flour, butter, seasonings, and milk. Add 
beaten yolks and cheese. Cool. Proceed as for Rice Croquettes. 

Nut and Raisin Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

I c. stale bread crumbs 2 egg yolks 

5 c. milk salt 

I c. chopped nut meats pepper 

I c. chopped raisins 
Method : 

Soak bread in mUk until soft. Add nuts, seasonings, beaten yolks, 
and raisins. Proceed as for Rice Croquettes. 

Chicken Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

35 c. chopped chicken i tbsp. parsley 

onion juice 2 tsp. lemon juice 

Make i pt. of very thick cream sauce : 

I pt. cream and milk i| tsp. salt 

I c. butter 5 tsp. white pepper 

5 c. flour I tsp. celeiy salt 

cayenne 
Method : 

Add the sauce to the chopped chicken and seasonings. Cool. 
Proceed as for Rice Croquettes. 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 121 

Beef and Rice Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

I c. chopped beef J tsp. pepper 

1 c. rice (cooked) cayenne 

5 tsp. salt tomato sauce 

Method : 

Mix beef and rice, add salt, pepper, and cayenne. Cool. Proceed 
as for Rice Croquettes. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Veal or Lamb Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

2 c. chopped cold cooked veal cayenne 

5 tsp. salt few drops onion juice 

I tsp. pepper yolk i egg 

I c. thick white sauce or stock 
Method : 

Mix ingredients in order given. Cool. Proceed as for Rice 
Croquettes. 

Score Card 

Croquettes 
General appearance 30 

Uniformity . (10) 

Color (10) 

Size and shape (10) 

Mixture . 50 

Consistency (40) 

Flavor (10) 

Crust 20 

Freedom from excessive fat (10) 
Thickness (s) 

Tenderness (5) 

100 



122 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

References 
Eggs 

Atwater and Bryant. Composition of American Food Materials. 
United States Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment 
Stations, Bulletin 28. 

Barrows. Eggs : Facts and Fancies Compiled about Them. 

Demonstrations. Eggs and Milk. Iowa State College of Agri- 
culture, Extension Department, Short Course Class Notes, No. 4. 

Langworthy. Eggs and their Uses as Food. United States De- 
partment of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 128. 

Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

Maurer. Bacteriological Studies on Eggs. Kansas State Agri- 
cultural College Experiment Station, Bulletin 180 (1911). 

Remington. A Study of Commercial Eggs. United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Bulletin 51 (1914). 

Sherman. Food Products. 

Thompson. Studies in Egg Marketing. University of Minnesota, 
Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 132 (1913). 

TiBBLES. Foods : Their Origin, Composition and Manufacture. 

Wiley. Foods and their Adulteration. 

Cooking in Fats 

Blunt and Feeney. The Smoking Temperatures of Edible Fats. 
Journal of Home Economics, vol. VII, page $55 (December, 

1915)- 



CHAPTER IX 
MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 

Meats are derived from the flesh of domestic and wUd ani- 
mals chiefly if not exclusively of herbivorous habits, and from 
fowls. The most important kinds are beef (ox), veal (calf), 
mutton (sheep), lamb (young sheep), pork (pig), ham and 
bacon (pig), venison (deer). Poultry includes chickens, turkeys, 
ducks and geese, guinea hens, and game birds. 

The quality of meat is dependent on the condition of the 
animal from which it is derived. Of all the foods, meat is the 
one most subject to conditions rendering it unwholesome or even 
dangerous. Certain diseases of animals are communicable to 
man through eating of the flesh, and there is danger that through 
lack of cleanliness in slaughterhouses and exposure to dust 
and flies, meat may be infected with Bacillus enteritidis which 
produces poisonous products which are not destroyed by cook- 
ing and which are now considered to be the commonest cause 
of food poisoning — so-called " ptomaine " poisoning. 

The United States Department of Agriculture, under the 
meat inspection law of 1906, provides for the inspection of 
establishments which send products into foreign or interstate 
commerce. There are, however, many establishments which 
do business entirely within one state and they may or may not 
have local inspection. For the need of state inspection see 
United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal 
Industry, Circular 154 (1908). 

In meat as it is purchased we have bone, fat, and the flesh, 
consisting of the muscle of the animal with its connective tissue. 

123 



124 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

The color <rf the meat should be clear and bright, not purplish. 
There should be very little odor, and the meat should be firm 
and elastic to the touch. 

Meat is valuable chiefly for its protein, fat, and ash constit- 
uents. The protoplasm of the muscle cells consists mainly 
of proteins partially dissolved in 3 to 4 times their weight of 
water. The fat is deposited partly in the cells and partly in 
the connective tissue between the cells, where it forms in layers. 
Fat does not alter the composition of the actual protoplasm 
since it neither dissolves in nor absorbs water. When an ani- 
mal is killed, the muscular protoplasm coagulates (rigor mortis), 
but without essential change in the amount or distribution of 
moisture, protein, or fat. Muscle protein and gelatin differ 
conspicuously in their content of amino acids. It is now known 
that the inadequacy of gelatin alone as protein food is due to 
the absence of certain amino-acid radicles, particularly trypto- 
phan and tyrosin. Special interest attaches to the " extrac- 
tives " of meat, to which its flavor is largely due, and to the 
purins which gi\'e rise to uric acid in the body. Among the 
extractives creatin is most conspicuous. The purins exist 
" free " (as in the form of hypoxanthin, adenin, guanin) and 
" bound " as constituents of the nucleoproteins. 

Cold storage, drying, canning, and the application of preserv- 
ative substances are the principal means of preserving meats. 
Salt, sugar, vinegar, and wood smoke are condimental as well 
as preservative in their properties, and there is no restriction 
upon their use. Saltpeter maintains the red color of meat and 
preserves it. Boric acid and borax, which when used are 
employed purely for their preservative effect, and sulphites 
are not permitted under the present United States meat in- 
spection law. 

For fuller discussion of composition, nutritive value, preser- 
vation and inspection of meat, read Sherman's Food Prod- 
ucts, Chapters VI and VII. 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 125 

MEAT EXPERIMENTS 

129. — Examine a shin of beef for fat, connective tissue, tendons," 
ligaments, blood vessels (veins and arteries), bone tissue, and muscles. 

Prepare round steak for the following experiments by grinding 
through meat grinder. 

130. — a. Mix 2 tbsp. meat and i c. cold water. Let stand i hour. 

h. !^lix 2 tbsp. meat and i c. cold water and | tsp. salt. 
Let stand i hour. 

c. Mix 2 tbsp. meat and i c. cold water and i tbsp. vine- 
gar. Let stand i hour. 

d. Mix 2 tbsp. meat and i c. warm water and | tsp. salt. 
Let stand i hour. 

e. Mix 2 tbsp. meat and i c. boiling water. BoU i minute, 
and let stand i hour. Compare results. In which instances is most 
color and flavor extracted? Explain these phenomena. 

131. — Remove as much muscle and fat as possible from a shoulder 
of veal. Crack the bone in several places. Place in cold water to 
cover, adding | tsp. salt to each pint of water and let simmer for 6 
hours. Remove the bone, strain the liquid through a wet cheesecloth, 
and put in a cold place to cool. Let the stock remain in ice box 
overnight and then observe change in consistency. (Keep for Expt. 
132.) 

a. Note the layer of fat on surface covering the jeUy under- 
neath. Could the small amount of fatty tissue left on the bone 
have furnished enough fat to form such a layer ? 

b. What was the source of the fat? 

132. — To a small portion of the jelly from Expt. 131 apply the 
following tests : 

a. Biuret, page 85. 

h. Xanthoproteic, page 85. 

c. Fehling-Benedict, page 13. 

d. Iodine, page 13. 



126 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

133. — Note the color and flavor of the jelly. Why is it lighter 
colored and lacking in flavor ? What kind of meat is added to soup 
stock for color and flavor? Why? 

134. — Rub a piece of tough round steak with a small amount of 
baking soda. AUow it to stand | hour and then pan-broil. Repeat, 
using vinegar or lemon juice. Broil. Compare as to flavor, texture, 
ease of cutting with silver knife, and mastication. How do you 
account for the differences observed ? 

135. — Again prepare pieces of steak, A and B, as in Expt. 134. 
Put A in a hot frying pan, B in a cold frying pan. Turn each as soon 
as seared on one side. Compare as to texture, flavor, and amount 
of gravy left in pan. 

Conclusions. 

136. — Cut bacon into slices A, B, and C — 

A cut very thin ] 

B cut moderately thin > weigh each 

C cut thick J 

Fry each to the following stages : rare, medium, and crisp. Weigh 
the amount of fat left in pan in each case. How much is lost ? 

137. — Use sHces cut as in A, B, C. Broil and compare with 
products in Expt. 136. Which method of preparing bacon is best ? 
Why? 

138. — a. Prepare a meat stew in both the pressure and fireless 
cooker. 

b. Compare the thoroughness of cooking, length of time 
required, flavor. 

c. Compute the saving in time, labor, and fuel. Note the 
temperature of each cooker. 

d. What are the advantages of the pressure and the fireless 
cookers over the coal or gas stove ? 







1. ITeok. 

2. Chuck. 

3. Biba. 

4. Shoalder clod. ' 
6. Fore ehank. 

6. Brisket. 

7. Cross ribs. 

8. Plate. 

9. IsTavel. 

10. Loin. 

11. Flank. 

12. Bump. 

13. Bound. 

14. Second cut ronnd. 
16. Hind shank. 



I(ln^ 




Figure i. — Cuts of Beef (U. S. Dept. Agriculture). 
127 



128 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 




Rump 

/ /Tij/T?p 
ffoune^;ru/7?p&s/>an/ro/?^ 

3-/3 Pocjna' s/saAs. 
/4 Poiync/s/ea'A;,/asrct/r. 
/S /<f?ucA/e ^oup/>o/?e. 
/e Pa/^/vasA 

yyjSSoup />o/7es. 
/3 /foc/c soup Aone. 
CO/ZV 

/ Bu//-em/ s/r/o/h s/eoji: 

3,4 /?ou/7a'-dcnes/r/d//7SA^.aAr. 

7 ///p'4f<y7e •s/r/a//? ,s/i^£r/r. 
3 Mp-ia/7epar/erA<x/se-sAsaA: 
3-/5 /rl^^u/h/- par/, 
/6-/8 aOi s/ea/is. 

/ P/anPs/ea/c. 
2 Sfeiv. 



/ //'f'S: /£"?> MA roasA 
Z 3/.''&/0//'P/6/TyarsA 
3 y'Aar <?■** /P/A roasA 

/ s'" P?/A /rxrsA 
2-9 CAuc/rsAsoAes. 
/0-/3 A^oAz-aas/is. 
/4 CAoaA. 
/S AAecAr. 
/=ILAT£r 

/ Br/sArsA 
2 -AAai/iffA- 
3,4 A?/A er/aCs^., 

A^OP'£-S/il'V^/< 
A SAen'. 

2 Aj?7ucAcAe soe/p A>a?e, 
3~S Soup ^lonss. 



l«c^ 



Figure a. — Side of Beef (U. S. Dept. Agriculture). 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 



129 




, 


Ji 


Neck. 
Chuck. 
Sliouider. 
Fore ahniik. . 
Breast. 


w 


^ 


1 


t 



r-i Ca M ■^ »0 



130 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 




f! C9 03 ^ ua (0 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 



131 



5 O CJ ^ S S ^ *B. 




132 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

SOUPS 

Soups may be divided into two main classes, meat soups and 
vegetable soups. Those made from meat obtain their flavor 
from extractives which are stimulating, but have almost no food 
value. Vegetable soups usually have a higher nutritive value, 
since the pulp of vegetables used as flavoring or thickening is 
commonly served as a part of the soup. 



Sfock Soups 

Stock soups are made from beef, veal, mutton, fish, or poultry 
separately or in combination. Left-overs, meats or vegetables, may 
be used alone or with fresh meats to make stock. They often im- 
prove stock by imparting delicious new ilavors. 

Bouillon, lean beef; delicately seasoned, usually cleared. 
Consomme, two or three kinds of meat ; highly seasoned, al- 
ways cleared. 
Brown stock, beef; highly seasoned with vegetables, spices, and 

herbs. 
White stock, veal or chicken ; delicately seasoned. 
Old-fashioned stock, thickened with vegetables. Some fat re- 
mains in this soup. 

Soup Accompaniments 

Flour pastes, plain and fancy Croutons 

Vegetables, cut in plain and fancy shapes Cooked cereals 

Fritter batter, forced through a strainer and fried Royal custard 

Other Uses for Soup Stock 
Gravies Sauces 

Seasoning for meats Aspic jeUy 

Preparation of combination soups as Creole, INfongole 

Meat left from soup making is tasteless, but contains about as 
much protein as fresh meat. It may be seasoned, mixed with a sauce 
and made into the following " Left-over " dishes ; 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 



133 



Croquettes 


Hash 


Creamed on toast 


Minced on toast 


Souffle 


Scalloped 


Meat pie 


Cottage 


pie Casserole with vegetables 


Warmed in gravy 


Salad 


or rice 




Brown 


Soup Stock 


Ingredients : 






6 lbs. shin of beef (f lean 


3 sprigs th3mie 


meat, -j bone and fat) 


2 sprigs parsley 


3 qts. cold water 




carrot " 




1 tsp. peppercorns 
6 cloves 


turnip 
onion 


1 c. each cut in dice 


5 bay leaf 




celery . 





I sprig marjoram 
Method : 

Wipe beef and cut the lean meat in inch cubes. Brown f of meat 
in marrow from bone. Add the water to the remaining | meat, the 
bone and fat, and let stand 30 minutes. Add browned meat and heat 
gradually to boiling point. Remove scum as it rises. Cover and 
simmer 6 hours. Add vegetables and seasonings. Simmer i| 
hours longer ; strain and cool as quickly as possible. 

To Clear Soup Stock 

Method : 

Remove fat from stock while cold. AUow white and shell of i 
egg to I qt. stock. Beat white slightly, break shell in small pieces 
and add to stock. Boil 2 minutes. Remove scum and strain 
through double thickness of cheesecloth. If more seasonings are 
necessary, add as soon as stock has lost its jelly-Mke consistency. 



Chicken Soup 

Ingredients : 

15 qts. chicken stock 2 tbsp. rice 

5 bay leaf 2 tbsp. noodles 

i tsp. peppercorns 2 tbsp. vermicelli 

Method : 

Simmer stock and seasonings 5 hour. Strain. Add the rice and 
flour pastes, previously cooked in 2 c. boiling water in a double boiler. 



134 LABORATORY MAl^UAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Vegetable Soup 



I c. cubed carrots 
I c. cubed turnips 

1 c. cubed celery 

2 c. cubed potatoes 
I c. chopped onions 



3 qts. water 

5 c. butter 

2 tbsp. flour 

I tbsp. parsley 

I tbsp. salt 
5 tsp. pepper 
Method : 

Cook all the vegetables except potato and onion in 6 tbsp. of butter 
lo minutes. Add the potato and cook 2 minutes, the onion and 
water and cook 5 hour. Mix 2 tbsp. of butter with the flour and 
add the first mixture slowly and the seasonings. Cook 5 hour longer 
and add the parsley. 





Mongole 


Soup 


Ingredients : 






I qt. brown stock 




10 allspice berries 


I qt. tomatoes 




6 cloves 


I onion sliced 




J bay leaf 


I sprig parsley 




i tsp. celery salt 


J c. butter 




I tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 


I c. flour 




5 tbsp. vinegar 


Method: 







Cook stock, tomatoes, onion, parsley, spices for 30 minutes. Brown 
butter, add flour and, graduaUy, the above mixture. Bring to the 
boiling point. Strain, add Worcestershire sauce and vinegar. 



Creole Soup 



Ingredients : 

I qt. brown stock 

1 pt. tomatoes 

3 tbsp. chopped green peppers 

2 tbsp. chopped onion 
J c. butter 

I c. flour 



salt 

pepper 

cayenne 

2 tbsp. grated horseradish 

I tsp. vinegar 

J c. macaroni rings 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 135 

Method : 

Cook pepper and onion in butter s minutes. Add flour, stock, 
tomatoes. Simmer 15 minutes. Strain, rub through a sieve and sea- 
son highly with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Just before serving, add 
horseradish, vinegar, and macaroni previously cooked and cut in rings. 

MEATS 

Tender Cuts 

Roasting 

Wipe, trim, tie, or skewer meat into shape. Place on a rack in a 
pan and place pieces of fat from the meat over it. Rub meat over 
with salt and dredge meat and pan with flour. 

Place in the hottest part of oven to sear the outside and brown the 
flour; then remove to a lower shelf and reduce the temperature; 
baste meat every ten minutes until done, unless a covered roaster is 
used. 

Time-table for Roasting 

Beef — rare 8-10 minutes per lb: 

Mutton 15 minutes per lb. 

Veal 20 minutes per lb. 

Pork 30 minutes per lb. 

Chicken until joints separate easily 

Turkey — 10 lbs 3 hours 

Fillet of Beef I 

The tenderloin of beef is known as the fillet. 

Trim into shape a fillet of beef weighing about four pounds, re- 
moving tendinous portions and veins. Tie and skewer this into a 
pear-shaped piece. Lard the top, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and 
dredge with flour. Cover the bottom of a small dripping pan with 
cubes of salt pork. Set a trivet on top of pork, and place the meat 
on the trivet ; allow the meat to roast from 20-30 minutes in hot 
oven, basting it frequently. 

Serve with gravy made from fat in pan, flour, and hot water. 



136 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Fillet of Beef II 

Ingredients : 

I fillet of beef i stalk of celery 

I small onion 4 cloves 

I small carrot 2 bay leaves 

Method : 

Remove all the membranes and excess of fat from the fillet. Cut 
strips of larding pork 3 inches long, J inch wide, and | inch thick. 
ChiU the strips in ice water. Lard the upper side of the fillet, slice 
the onion, carrot, and celery and place them with the cloves and bay 
leaves in the bottom of the pan. Place the fillet on the vegetables, 
season with salt and pepper, and cover with pieces of butter. Dis- 
solve I tsp. salt in J c. boiling water and pour into the pan. Roast 
in a hot oven for 30 minutes. Baste frequently. Serve with mush- 
room sauce, if desired. 

Stuffed Flank Steak or " Mock Duck " 
Ingredients : 

1 flank or round steak suet 

dressing (see below) 
Method : 

Wipe meat, spread with dressing, roll and tie, or skewer. Place 
suet on top and roast i hour, or until tender. 

Dressing for Flank Steak 

Ingredients : 

2 c. bread crumbs i tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. butter | tsp. pepper 

1 tbsp. parsley | tsp. poultry seasoning 

juice of 5 onion if desired 

Brown Gravy 

Ingredients : 

2 c. boiling water or 5 milk I c. flour 
salt 1 c. fat 

pepper 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 137 

Method : 

Remove all but j c. of the fat from roasting pan. Place over fire, 
add flour and stir until well browned, then add water slowly; boil 
S minutes. Season and strain. 



Broiling 

Remove extra fat from meat. Grease the broiler with some of the 
fat. Place broiler close to flame to sear meat, then remove to lower 
part of broiling oven to finish cooking, turning often. Season with 
butter, salt, and pepper. 

Pan-Broiling 

Heat an iron pan very hot. Remove extra fat from steak or chops. 
Sear meat on both sides, then turn frequently until cooked as desired, 
using a knife and fork for turning. Five minutes is necessary for 
lamb chop or steak one inch thick. Season with butter, salt, and 
pepper. 

Broiled Lamb or Mutton Chop 

Wipe chops, remove superfluous fat, and place in a broiler greased 
with sorne of the mutton fat. In loin chops flank may be roUed and 
fastened with a small wooden skewer. Broil over a clear fire, turning 
every ten seconds for the first minute, that surface may be well 
seared, thus preventing escape of juices. After the first minute, 
turn occasionally until well cooked on both sides. 



Broiled Fillet of Beef 

Cut slices about two inches thick from fillet. Shape in circles. 
Place the circles on greased broiler and broil over hot coals from 
4-6 minutes, turning them every 10 seconds. Serve on hot 
platter ; garnish with slices of broiled tomato and brown mushroom 
sauce. 



138 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Hamburg Steak 

Ingredients : 

I lb. round of beef i tsp. onion juice 

I tsp. salt I tbsp. butter 

f tsp. pepper i tbsp. parsley 

Method : 

Shape into cakes and pan-broil. 

Pan-Broiled Chops 

Chops for pan-broUing should have flank and most of fat removed. 
Wipe chops and put in a hissing, hot frying pan. Sear on both sides, 
then turn frequently until cooked as desired. Drain on brown paper, 
put on hot platter and spread with small amount of butter and 
seasonings. 

Breaded Mutton Cutlets 

Ingredients : 

8 Frenched chops, cut thin 5 tsp. salt 

1 tbsp. butter | tsp. pepper 

4 tbsp. flour I c. cream 

5 c. chopped ham 
Method : 

Make a white sauce of the above ingredients. When thoroughly 
cooked add the finely chopped ham, mix thoroughly and set aside to 
cool. BroU the chops. Season each chop with salt and pepper, 
and cover on both sides with a layer of the sauce. Allow them to 
stand on a buttered plate until firm, then dip in egg and crumbs and 
fry in deep fat until brown. Serve with Cuban or tomato sauce. 



Veal Cutlets I 

Cut a slice from the leg or fillet of veal into pieces for serving. 
Dredge with salt, pepper, and flour ; brown in bacon or salt pork fat. 
Remove from pan. Put 2 tablespoons of flour in the pan ; let brown ; 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 139 

add 1 5 cups of broth or water. When it boils, add the cutlets, cover 
and simmer j of an hour, or until the cutlets are tender. 



Veal Cutlets 11 

Use slices of veal from leg cut 5 inch thick. Wipe, remove bone 
and skin, then cut in pieces for serving. The long, irregularly-shaped 
pieces may be rolled and fastened with small wooden skewers. 
Dip in seasoned crumbs, egg and crumbs; place in a pan with butter, 
lard and water, cover and cook until tender in a moderate oven. 30 
to 40 minutes is required. 

Veal Loaf 

Ingredients: 

3 lbs. lean veal (chopped) ^ 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

5 lb. salt pork (chopped) i tbsp. salt 

6 crackers (ground) | tbsp. pepper 

4 tbsp. cream onion juice 

Method: 

Mix ingredients, pack in a bread pan, smooth evenly on top, brush 
with white of egg, and bake slowly three hours, basting with pork 
fat. Prick frequently while baking so that pork fat may be absorbed. 



Sweetbreads 

Remove from paper as soon as received from market, plunge into 
cold water and allow to stand i hour. Drain. Place in boiling, 
salted water and add i tsp. lemon juice or vinegar. Cook slowly 
twenty minutes; again drain and plunge into cold water. Free 
from pipe and skin, salt if necessary, and serve as desired. 



Broiled Sweetbreads 

ParboU and cut in halves crosswise. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and broU s minutes. Serve with creamed butter to which 
has been added a little lemon juice. 



I40 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Creamed Sweetbreads 
Ingredients : 

1 c. cream or rich milk 5 tsp. salt 

2 tsp. butter 2 tbsp. flour 

Method : 

Parboil sweetbreads and cut into 5 inch cubes. Blend flour and 
a little cold milk to make a smooth mixture. Scald cream in double 
boiler, add the flour mixture and cook thoroughly. Just before 
serving, add the prepared sweetbreads, salt, and butter. Serve hot 
on toasted circles of bread and garnish with parsley, or use as a 
filling for Swedish Timbales or Croustades. 

Bacon I 

Place thin sUces of bacon (from which the rind has been removed) 
closely together on a fine wire broiler; place broUer over dripping- 
pan and bake in a hot oven until bacon is crisp and brown, turning 
once. Drain on brown paper. 

Bacon II 

Remove rind from bacon and parboil until slightly puffed. Place 
in hot frying pan and fry until a hght brown, turning often and 
removing fat from pan as it tries out. The bacon should be crisp 
and flaky. 

Tough Cuts 

Pot Roast of Beef 

Select a piece of four to six pounds from the nunp or round. Wipe 
with a dampened cloth and sear aU of the surface in a hot frying pan. 
Place in saucepan, add i cup of boiling water, cover closely and cook 
slowly until very tender. Sprinkle with salt when nearly done. 
Add water if necessary, but only enough to keep meat from burning. 
Add water to make a gravy thickened with 15 tsp. flour to 1 c. 
liquid. 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 141 



Beef Stew 

lents : 




3 lbs. round of beef 


3 carrots 


water to cover 


I onion 


6 potatoes 


salt 


flour 


pepper 



Note : i. Salt should be added in the proportion of J tsp. ; pepper | tsp.,and 
flour 4 tsp. to I qt. liquid. A fireless cooker is convenient for 
stews. 

Method : 

Cut beef in pieces, cover with water, bring to boiling point and 
simmer 3 hours, or until meat is tender. Add diced vegetables i hour 
before meat is cooked. Remove vegetables and meat and thicken 
the liquid. Boil 5 minutes and return meat and vegetables to the pan. 

Note : 2. Serve with dumplings made like emergency biscuit with shorten- 
ing omitted. Drop by spoonfuls on top of stew, cover, and 
steam until done, then cook three minutes uncovered. 



Beef Broth 

Ingredients : 

5 lb. round of beef i c. cold water 

salt 

Method : 

Wipe meat, remove fat, and cut meat in pieces. Add cold water 
and let soak 15 minutes. Put in pan of cold water. Heat water 
slowly to 150 degrees F. Cook 2 hours. Strain and season. Reheat, 
skim off fat with spoon and paper. In reheating, be careful not to 
coagulate the albumin. 

Beef Juice 

Select a piece of meat from the rump or upper round. Wipe, re- 
move fat, cut in pieces, heat in a double boiler until juice flows. 
Squeeze out the juice by means of a press, lemon squeezer, or potato 
ricer. Serve at once in a colored glass. 



142 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Left-over Meats 

Meat Cakes 

Ingredients : 

2 c. cold roast beef i egg 

I c. crumbs 2 tsp. melted butter 

seasoning 

Method : 

Shape into oval cakes and brown in butter. 



Meat Pie 

Ingredients : 

2 c. chopped roast beef i c. mashed potatoes 

gravy seasoning 

Method : 

Combine ingredients except potatoes. Place in a buttered baking 
dish and cover with mashed potato. Brush with beaten egg. Bake 
until potatoes are slightly browned. 



Browned Hash 

Ingredients : 

1 c. meat 4 tbsp. fat 

2 c. mashed potatoes salt and pepper 
I c. boiling water onion juice 

chopped parsley 

Method : 

Put the mixture into a frynig pan in which i tbsp. of fat has been 
heated. Spread smoothly ; cook over moderate heat so it will brown 
slowly and not burn. Cook about one half hour and do not stir. 
Fold like an omelet. 

The same mixture may be made into small cakes f inch thick and 
browned in the same way. 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN I43 

Casserole of Rice and Meat 

Ingredients : 

2 c. cooked lamb i tbsp. chopped parsley 

I tsp. salt I egg (may be omitted) 

J tsp. pepper i c. fine crumbs 

J tsp. onion juice 4 c. boiled rice 

stock 

Method : 

Season meat and mix with crumbs and beaten egg; add enough 

stock to make it pack easily. Line a mold with 3 c. rice, fill with 

the meat ; cover with remainder of rice, cover tightly and steam 45 

minutes. Serve with Cuban sauce. 

Casserole of Beef 

Cut cold roast beef and steak alone or in combination in i inch 
cubes; there should be one quart. Put in a casserole dish and add 
2 c. brown sauce or roast beef gravy, | c. celery, and | c. carrots cut 
in cubes, i onion thinly sliced, i c. canned tomatoes, i tsp. Worces- 
tershire sauce, I tsp. salt, and J tsp. pepper. Cover and bake one 
hour ; then add i c. peas, beans, or mushrooms, canned or fresh, 1 c. 
potato balls, previously cooked in boiling salted water 10 minutes. 
Serve from casserole. 

Casserole of Veal 

Ingredients : 

I lb. veal 3 c. stock 

3-4 small onions i small piece salt pork 

I c. cubed carrots i small piece suet 

5 c. cubed onions 6 tbsp. flour 

I stalk celery kitchen bouquet 

8 potato balls seasonings 

Method : 

Brown the vegetables and meat in tried-out salt pork. Make a 
brown sauce with flour and stock. Pour over the meat and vege- 
tables in a casserole. Bake one hour. 



144 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



SoufSg of Lamb 



Ingredients : 

2 c. lamb 

2 tbsp. butter 

3 tbsp. flour 
J tsp. salt 
cayenne 

Method : 

Prepare sauce, add meat, crumbs, and seasonings. Add the well- 
beaten yolks, and fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Bake in 
moderate oven until light. 



I tsp. kitchen bouquet 

§ c. stock 

I c. cream or mUk 

5 c. crumbs 

I tsp. parsley 



3 eggs 



Ingredients : 

J lb. ham 

3 hard-cooked eggs 

parsley 



Royal Scallop 



3 tbsp. flour 
3 tbsp. butter 
I pt. milk 



2 c. buttered crumbs 
Method : 

Scald a blade of mace with the mUk, and strain. Make a white 
sauce of the butter, flour, and hot milk. Chop ham and eggs, add 
parsley and white sauce. Prepare as any scalloped dish. Bake in 
hot oven until crumbs are brown. 



Meat Sauces 



Brown Sauce 

Ingredients : 

I tbsp. chopped onion 2 tbsp. butter 

I tbsp. chopped carrot 3 tbsp. flour 

I sprig parsley J tsp. salt 

I sprig thyme i tsp. pepper 

piece bay leaf i c. brown stock 

Method : 

Cook the vegetables and herbs in the butter until brown ; add the 
flour (an extra tbsp. is used as flour loses its thickening quality to 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 145 

some extent when changed to dextrin) and brown. Add the stock 
gradually. Strain before using. 

Brown Mushroom Sauce 

To I c. of brown sauce add | c. canned button mushrooms, whole 
or cut in halves. Fresh mushrooms must be cleaned, pulled, browned 
in butter or simmered in water until tender, before they are added to 
the sauce. 

Mushroom Sauce 

Ingredients : 

drippings from fillet i pt. stock 

2 tsp. butter I pt. cooked mushrooms 

4 tsp. flour I tsp. Worcestershire sauce 

salt and pepper 
Method : 

Heat the butter and drippings until brown, add the flour and then 
the stock gradually. Strain and add the mushrooms. Cook 5 
minutes. Add Worcestershire sauce, salt, and pepper. 

Cuban Sauce I 

Ingredients : 

1 pt. tomatoes I tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. sugar i c. flour 

1 c. lamb stock J c. butter 

Method : 

Cook first two ingredients untU tomatoes are soft, strain and add 
stock. Melt butter, add flour, and when browned add liquid gradually. 

Cuban Sauce 11 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. chopped ham if c. stock 
4 tbsp. flour I c. catsup 
4 tbsp. butter 5 tsp. salt 

Method : 

Cook ham in the butter until browned. Proceed as for White Sauce 



146 LABORATORY JIANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Horseradish Sauce 

Ingredients : 

3 tbsp. grated horseradish cayenne 

I tbsp. vinegar i c. cream (whipped) 

I tsp. salt 

Method : 
Mix first four ingredients. Fold in the cream. 

Spanish Sauce for Steak 

Ingredients : 

J c. catsup I tsp. Worcestershire sauce 

Method : 

Thicken with flour, add i c. mushrooms, and i tsp. horseradish. 

Score Camj 

Roast of Meat 

General appearance 30 

Compactness (10) 

Form (10) 

Color (10) 

Meat , JO 

Flavor 

Retained (25) 

Seasoning (10) 

Degree of Cooking (10) 

Tenderness developed by Cooking (25) 

100 

GELATIN 

Commercial gelatin is obtained from the skin, ligaments, and 
bones of sound animals. Gelatins made in the kitchen are 
obtained from the tissues, ligaments, and bones of young ani- 
mals or fowl. Gelatin as a food cannot meet the entire protein 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 147 

requirement, since it is lacking certain animo-acid radicles, 
the most important being tryptophan, but this lack may be 
offset by using with gelatin other foods such as milk or cream 
whose proteins are rich in tryptophan. Gelatin is an excellent 
medium for using or disguising milk, eggs, or fruit and may thus 
play a very important part in the diet. 

GELATIN EXPERIMENTS 

In these experiments gelatin used for desserts will be considered. 
See meat experiments, also. 

139. — Have at hand samples of various gelatins. Use each 
gelatin as follows : 

a. I tsp. gelatin and j c. hot water. 

h. I tsp. gelatin and j c. boiling water. 

c. I tsp. gelatin and \ c. cold water. 
In which is the gelatin most soluble ? 
Does it dissolve in cold water? 

140. — Use one of the dissolved gelatins to make the following tests : 

Biuret, page 85. 
Xanthoproteic, page 85. 
Fehling-Benedict, page 13. 
Iodine, page 13. 
Coagulation on boiling. 

Note : It will hardly be necessary to test each gelatin for the above re- 
actions. 

141. — Make three solutions A, B, C, using non-acidulated gelatin 
(i tsp. gelatin soaked in i tbsp. cold water, add | c. boiling water). 

Boil A for 5 minutes. Set on ice in mold. 

Boil B for 10 minutes. Set on ice in mold. 

Boil C for 15 minutes. Set on ice in mold. 

Which is most desirable? What has happened to the gelatin? 

142. — Make four solutions, A, B, C, D, as in Expt. 141. 
Put A on ice in mold. 



148 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

To B add j c. lemon juice. Put on ice in mold. 

To C, add 2 tbsp. fresh pineapple juice or 4 tbsp. pineapple pulp. 
Thoroughly mix and put on ice in mold. 

To D add 2 tbsp. fresh pineapple juice which has been boiled for 
2 minutes. Thoroughly mix and put on ice in mold. 

What do you observe in B, C, D? How do you account for the 
failure of the gelatin to solidify in B and C ? 

Compare the consistency of A and D. How do you accoimt for 
the deUcacy of D ? Beat D with a Dover egg beater imtil foamy. 
What gives it this appearance? 

Have the class divided so that all brands of gelatins are 
used. Compare results. 

Make a table showing the proper amount of.: gelatin, liquid, 
fruit juice, sugar. 

Gelatin Desserts 
General Rules 

FUl molds with cold water and let stand. 

Soak gelatin in cold water to soften it. 

Add the boiling Uquid to the softened gelatin to dissolve it. 

Add sugar to this mixture while hot to dissolve the sugar. 

Strain fruit gelatins through a wet cheesecloth before cooling. 

Cover gelatin mixtures while cooling to protect from dust. 

Varieties 

1. Fruit jellies : Mold after straining; when firm turn 

Lemon jelly out on serving dish. Serve with soft 

Orange jelly custard or whipped cream. 

2. Fruit jellies with white Cool until sirupy. Add stiffly beaten 

of egg : egg white and beat until firm enough 

Snow pudding ; Sponges to mold. 

3. Fruit jellies with cream : Add whipped cream when sirupy. 

Bavarian creams 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 



149 



4. Custard jellies : 

Spanish cream 
Macarooa cream 

5. Charlottes : 



Add stiffly beaten white to custard jelly. 
After straining, beat occasionally while 

cooling. Mold when begins to thicken. 
Jellies with the whip from thin cream. 
Add the whip when the mixture begins 

to thicken. 





Fruit Jellies 




Ingredients: 


Orange 


Prune 


Lemon 


Gelatin . . . 
Cold water . . 
Boiling liquid . 


2 tbsp. 

ic 

li c. water 


2i tbsp. 
ic 

i lb. prunes and 
liquid to make 


2 tbsp. 

2 c. 

I c. water 


Sugar . . . . 
Fruit juice . . 


I c. 

li c. orange juice 
juice I lemon 


2 c. 
I c. 
i c. lemon juice 


fc 

i c. lemon juice 


Ingredients: 


Cofee 


Wine 




Gelatin . . 


2 tbsp. 


I tbsp. 
ic 

ic 

ic 

juice I lemoi 




Cold water . 
Boiling liquid 
Sugar . 


ic 
. . I c. water 
. . ic 




Fruit juice . 




1, juice i orange 



2 c. boiled coffee i c. wine 

Fruit : When orange or lemon jelly begins to thicken, add sliced 

bananas, cherries, pieces of cooked pineapple, nuts, and orange sections. 
Fruit jellies with whip : FiU glasses f fuU and let stand until firm. 

Cool a small portion of the jelly until sirupy. Whip untU frothy 

and place on top of glasses. 



Sponges 

Ingredients : Pineapple 

Gelatin 2 tbsp. 

Cold water ... . . . i c. 

Boiling water i c 



Sugar . ... 
Pineapple juice 
Egg whites 
Shredded' pineapple 



c. 
:C 



Chocolate 
si tbsp. 

i r 

2 c. 

I oz. chocolate and 25 c. 

scalded milk 
6 tbsp. 
i tsp. salt 

3 whole eggs 
I tsp. vanilla 



ISO LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Snow Puddings 

Lemon Orange 

Gelatin 2 tbsp. 2 tbsp. 

Cold water j c. i c. 

Boiling water i c. i c. 

Sugar f c. I c. 

Lemon juice i c. 3 tbsp. 

Orange juice i c. 

Egg whites 3 3 



Spanish Creams 

Ingredients : Plain 

Gelatin 2 tbsp. 

Cold liquid J c. milk 

Scalded milk 25 c. 

Egg yolks 3 

Sugar i c. 

Salt I tsp. 

Vanilla i tbsp. 

Egg whites 3 

Macaroons 



Macaroon 

2 tbsp. 
J c. water 
2 c. 
3 

i tsp. 



I c. crumbs 





Bavarian Creams 




igredients: 


Cofee 


Grape 


Orange 


Gelatin . . . 


ij tbsp. 


if tbsp. 


I tbsp. 


Cold water . 


ic. 


2f tbsp. 


ic 


Boiling liquid 


J c. coffee 


I c. grape juice 


4 c. water 


Sugar . . . 


ic. 


I c. 


I c. 


Fruit juice 




4 tbsp. lemon 


r c. orange juice 






juice 


J lemon 


Cream . . . 


ij c. (whipped) 


iJ c. (whipped) 


I c. (whipped) 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 



151 







Charlottes 










Ritsse 


Orange 


Strawberry 


Caramel 


Chocolate 


Cofee 


Gelatin. . . . 


li tbsp. 


if tbsp. 


2 tbsp. 


i| tbsp. 


i^ tbsp. 


zi tbsp. 


Cold water . . 


ic. 


^c. 


ic. 


Ic. 


^c. 


Jc. 


Boiling liquid 


^ c. cream 


J c. water 


i c. water 


I c. water 


^ c. creara 


1 c. coffee 


Sugar 


1 c. pow- 
dered 


I c. 


I c. 


1 c. cara- 
melized 


f c. 


*c. 


Thin cream (whip 














from) 


3^c. 


3C. 


3 c. 


3 c. 


3 c. 


3 C. 


Flavoring . . . 


i^ tsp. 


I c. orange 


2 c. straw- 


I tsp. 


I oz. 






vanilla 


juice 
3 tbsp. 
lemon 

juice 


berry pulp 
I tbsp. 
lemon 
juice 


vanilla 


choco- 
late 
I tsp. 
vanilla 





Note : The cream left after removing the whip may be used for other pur- 
poses. 





Score 


Card 




Gelatin 


Dessert 


General appearance . 






Container 


(S) 




Form 


(10) 




Color 


(10) 




Appearance 


(10) 




Garnish 


(s) 





40 



Gelatin mixture 

Density (10) 

Flavor (40) 

Imperceptibility of gelatin (10) 



60 



RErERENCES 

Atwater. Poultry as Food. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Farmers' Bulletin 182 (1903). 

Atwater and Bryant. The Composition of American Food Mate- 
rials. United States Department of Agriculture, Office of Ex- 
periment Stations, Bulletin 28 (Revised). 

Carver. The Pickling and Curing of Meat in Hot Weather. Tus- 
keegee Institute, Experiment Station, Bulletin 24 (1912), 



152 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Cook. Bouillon Cubes : Their Contents and Food Value compared 
with Meat Extracts and Homemade Preparations of Meat. 
United States Department of Agriculture, Bulletin 27 (1913). 

Edelmann. Textbook of Meat Hygiene. 

Green. How to Cook Meat and Poultry. 

Grindley. Studies of the Effect of Different Methods of Cooking 
upon the Thoroughness and Ease of Digestion of Meat. United 
States Department of Agriculture. Office of the Experiment 
Stations, Bulletin 193 (1907). 

Hall. Market Classes and Grades of Meat. University of lUinois, 
Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin No. 147. 

Hall and Emmett. • Relative Economy, Composition and Nutri- 
tive Value of the Various Cuts of Beef. Illinois Agricultural 
Experiment Station, Bulletin 158 (1912). 

Langworthy. The Guinea Fowl and its Use as Food. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 234 (1905). 

Langworthy and Hunt. Mutton and its Value in the Diet. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 526 

(1913)- 
Langworthy and Hunt. Economical Use of Meat Ln the Home. 

United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 

No. 391 (Corrected 1910). 
Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

Lighton and Douglas. The Meat Industry and Meat Inspection. 
Mitchell. Flesh Foods. 
Pennington. The Handling of Dressed Poultry a Thousand Miles 

from the Market. Yearbook of the Department of Agriculture 

for 1912. 
Sherman. Food Products. 
Sprague. a Precise Method of Roasting Beef. University of 

Illinois, Bulletin 419 (1907). 
Wiley. Foods and their Adulterations. 

Wiley and Bigelow. Preserved Meats. United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 13, Part 

10. 
White. Meat. Ohio State University, Agricultural College Home 

Makers' Reading Course (1912). 



CHAPTER X 
POULTRY 

In selecting poultry see that the flesh is firm, that there is a 
fair amount of fat underneath the skin, that the latter is whole 
and of a clear yellow color, and that the odor is good. Chickens 
and fowls have certain characteristics which make them read- 
ily distinguishable. Chickens have soft feet, a flexible breast 
bone, many pin feathers, and little fat, while fowls have hard 
and scaly feet, a rigid breast bone, long hairs, and a large 
amount of fat around the intestines. 

Poultry is not classed as belonging to the slaughterhouse 
industry and does not come under the provisions of the meat 
inspection law. 

The composition of poultry is essentially the same as that of 
meat. The light meat is composed of more tender fibers less 
firmly held together by connective tissue than the dark meat. 
Light meat also contains less fat. For these reasons, it is apt 
to be more rapidly digested, at least in the stomach, and is 
therefore preferable for persons having weak digestion. 

Dressing and cleaning poultry. The " dressing " of chicken is 
often done now at the market. If it is necessary to do it, make an 
incision with a sharp knife just inside one of the legs, in the groin. 
Remove aU entrails. Loosen skin at neck and remove crop. Wash 
thoroughly inside and out, holding the cavity under running water. 
Singe hairs by holding over burning paper or gas flame. Remove 
pin feathers with the point of a knife and cut the oU bag from the tail. 
If it is a fowl, take out the tendons sei>arately, using a skewer. Cut 
the gall bladder away from the liver and cut off the outer coat of the 

IS3 



154 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

gizzard. Place gizzard and lieart in cold water; heat quickly to 
boiling and then simmer until tender. Add the liver a short time 
before removing the other giblets. The giblets may be chopped and 
added to the gravy. 

Trussing poultry. Insert a skewer underneath the legs, then 
thrust another one through the wings and breast. With string, tie 
the ends of the legs together and fasten them to the tail. Wind the 
ends of the string fastened to the tail, around the ends of the skewer 
beneath the legs. Cross the strings over the back, and wind them 
around the ends of the skewer through the wings; tie the strings 
together at the back. 

Boning poultry or birds. To bone birds, chickens, or turkeys, 
select undrawn birds with head and feet on. Remove pin feathers 
and singe. Draw tendons from the legs by making an incision just 
below the knee joint, and with a strong skewer draw the tendons out 
one at a time. Loosen the skin near the feet and cut oflf feet. 
Make an incision through the skin from the neck to the tail, the 
entire length of the backbone. Scrape the flesh from the bones until 
the shoulder blade is found, then continue scraping around the wing 
joint. Scrape down the backbone to the thigh, then around the 
second joint and leg, cutting tendinous portion when necessan,'. 
When one side of backbone is boned, bone the other, then remove 
flesh from breastbone, on either side of bird. When flesh is all 
separated from bone, discard carcass (i.e. the skeleton with entrails, 
etc.), wipe flesh and skin, and arrange in original shape. The birds 
may be seasoned and broiled, or stuffed, sewed into shape and steamed. 
Small birds are generally prepared the former way, and large birds 
the latter way. 

Roast Chicken 
Time: 4 lbs. i^ hrs. 

Fill cavity of a dressed chicken with stuffing (see below) and sew 
edges together. Truss and place on its back in a roasting pan. 
Dredge with flour, and salt, spread with butter, or lay strips of bacon 
across the chicken. Brown in a hot oven, then reduce temperature, 
cover and baste frequently until breast meat is tender. 



POULTRY 15s 

Stuffing for Roast Chicken 

Ingredients : 

I c. crumbs onion juice 

^ c. melted butter parsley 

; tsp. salt I tsp. poultry seasoning 

I tsp. pepper 

Gravy 

Pour o£f liquid from the pan and place 2 tbsp. chicken fat or butter 
in the pan. Brown with 2 tbsp. flour and i c. stock in which giblets 
were cooked. Season. Strain. 

Evaporate water in pan and add flour. Brown and proceed as 
above. 

Add the flour mixed with a little cold milk to the boiling liqmd in 
the pan. 

To Cut up a Fowl for Stewing 

After removing entrails and other organs singe, draw out pin 
feathers, remove tendons, and oil bag. Cut through flesh, at thigh, 
bend back legs and cut off. Separate second joint and drum stick. 
Remove wings and cut off the tips. Separate back from breast by 
cutting through the ribs. Cut breast in two with a cleaver. 

Stewing 

Cover pieces of fowl with boiling water. Simmer until tender, 
adding salt when half cooked. 

Fricasseed Chicken 

Dredge stewed chicken with flour and brown in chicken fat. Ar- 
range on toast surrounded with white or brown sauce and biscuits. 

Fried Chicken 

Dip stewed chicken in flour, egg and flour. Brown in chicken fat 
and lard, or butter and lard. Serve with brown sauce. 



156 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Maryland Chicken 

Dip stewed chicken in ilour, egg and fine crumbs. Place in a 
dripping pan with pieces of salt pork or chicken fat. Cover and bake 
30 minutes. Serve with white sauce, broUed bacon, and com fritters. 

Sauce for Chicken 



tents : 

2 c. chicken stock 




4 tbsp. 


flour 


(half nulk may be 


used) 


salt 




4 tbsp. chicken fat 




pepper 






2 tsp. parsley 






Chicken 


Pie 





Ingredients : 

1 stewed fowl cut in pieces biscuit crust (2 c. flour) 

2 c. brown sauce parsley 

Method : 

Place the chicken in a buttered baking dish, add the brown sauce 
and parsley and cover the mixture with biscuit dough. 

Place a cup in center of baking dish to hold up crust if the baking 
dish is large. Have the brown sauce and chicken hot when the 
crust is added. Bake in a hot oven. 

Chicken en Casserole 

Dress and clean a young, tender fowl and cut in pieces for serving. 
Spread with ^ c. butter, put in a casserole and sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Pour over i c. boQing water, cover, and cook until chicken 
is tender, the time required being about 1 hour. Add i c. cream 
and 2 c. mushrooms. Cook 10 minutes and thicken with i tbsp. 
flour, diluted with 2 tbsp. water. 

Creamed Chicken 

Equal parts cubed chicken and medium white sauce. Use chicken 
fat instead of butter and half mUk and stock for the liquid in the 
white sauce. 



POULTRY 157 

Chicken k la King 

Ingredienis : 

I c. chicken cut in strips 35 tbsp. fat 

i c. sauteed mushrooms i tbsp. cornstarch 

I c. pimentoes i^ c. stock 

3 c. peas or half milk and stock 
i c. string beans ^ tsp. salt 

I egg yolk 

Creole Chicken 

Ingredients : 

4 tbsp. butter 4 tbsp. flour 

1 c. finely chopped onion 2 c. chicken stock 

2 c. stewed tomatoes i finely chopped red pepper 

5 c. celery salt 

1 chicken 
Method : 

Cut chicken in pieces for serving. Brown chicken in butter with 
the onion. Remove chicken, add flour, chicken stock, tomatoes, red 
pepper, celery, and salt. Cook until flavors are well blended. Pre- 
pare chicken in sauce and cook imtil tender, adding more water as 
liquid evaporates. 

Arrange on serving platter ; surround with gravy and garnish with 
cooked macaroni and parsley. 



CHAPTER XI 
FISH AND SHELLFISH 

There is a steadily increasing tendency towards better con- 
servation and more economical utilization of the fishery prod- 
ucts as food. The Government maintains a Bureau of Fish- 
eries and has established stations on the coast and inland lakes 
for the study and protection of these food supplies. The fish- 
ery industries are capable of great development both by im- 
proved methods of handling the well-known species and by 
utilizing as food the flesh of species formerly neglected. 

According to the quantity of fat it contains, fish may be di- 
vided into two classes : (a) lean, or white fish, and (b) oUy, or 
dark fish. The flesh of lean fish is light in color and the oil 
is concentrated in the liver. The flesh of oily fish is dark in 
color, and the oil is distributed throughout the body. Cod, hali- 
but, haddock, etc., are white fish. Salmon, mackerel, herring, 
etc., are dark fish. 

Fish may also be divided into two classes, according to the 
water in which they live, fish from the sea being termed salt- 
water fish, and those from inland lakes and rivers, fresh-water 
fish. 

Detailed information in regard to the various species of food 
fish may be obtained from the Reports and Bulletins of the 
United States Bureau of Fisheries. 

Fish is at its best when cleaned and cooked just after being 
caught. Fish to be sold " fresh " may be sent directly to 
market or may be kept in cold storage either chilled to ice 
temperature or hard frozen. In selecting fish see that the 

158 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 159 

flesh feels firm, that the eyes are bright and bulging, and that 
the gills are red and free from blubber. 

From most standpoints fish and shellfish are interchangeable 
with meat in the dietary. There is a general similarity in the 
chemical structure of the proteins, and the coefficients of diges- 
tibility of fish are approximately equal to those of meat. 

Many kinds of fish are preserved in large quantities by drying, 
salting, smoking, canning, or by combinations of these methods. 
For outlines of the preparation of salt codfish, canned salmon 
and sardines in oil see Sherman's Food Products, pages 230-236. 

Methods of cooking fish: 

boiling braising frying 

steaming baking " planking " 

broUing 

Technique of cooking fish. To prevent flesh falling apart, due to 
tendency of the connective tissue to dissolve, 
a. Wrap in cheesecloth when boiling. 
6. Coat with egg and crumbs when frying. 
c. Place on strips of buttered cheesecloth when baking. 
Cleaning fish. Rub off scales from tail to head with a sharp knife. 
Cut through the skin of the back and abdomen, loosen it at the tail 
and pull it off. Remove head, open abdomen and take out the in- 
ternal organs. Wash in cold, salt water. 

Boning fish. Slit the flesh down the back and separate flesh from 
side bones. Pull out the spine and attached bones. 

Fish in combination with other food : With potatoes as fishballs, 
with eggs as souffle, with white sauce as croquettes, creamed or 
scalloped, with celery as salad. 

Vegetables suitable for serving with fish as garnish are : 

potato balls or curls parsley cucumber 

Sauces for fish: 

drawn butter Bechamel egg 

sauce tartare olive cheese 

Hollandaise 



l6o LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Boiled Fish 

Thick pieces, or whole, small fish 
I tbsp. salt to 3 qts. water 

Wrap in cheesecloth, plunge into boiling water. Simmer 30-40 
minutes, or until tender. 

Broiled Fish 

Broil the ilesh side first, then turn and broil other side. The 
length of time for cooking depends on the thickness of the fish. 
Season with butter, salt, pepper, and garnish with parsley. 



Steamed Fish 

Wipe fish with damp cloth. Wrap in cheesecloth and steam or 
boil until tender. Time varies with size and shape of fish. At end 
of s minutes, add i tbsp. of salt. A little vinegar may also be 
added to the water. 



Baked Stuffed Fish 

Wash fish and dry with cheesecloth. If not cleaned, remove in- 
ternal organs. Remove backbone by beginning at the tail and with 
a sharp knife push the flesh away from the bones. Wipe with damp 
cloth, sprinkle with salt, and stuff. Sew with coarse cotton, insert 
slices of salt pork at intervals on each side. Bake in hot oven, allow- 
ing IS minutes to the pound with 15 minutes additional. Serve 
with HoUandaise Sauce. 



Stuffing for Fish 
Ingredients: 

2 c. bread crumbs i tsp. onion Juice 

5 tsp. salt I tsp. chopped parsley 

i tsp. white pepper i tsp. capers or chopped pickles 

cayenne I c. melted butter 



FISH AND SHELLFISH l6l 

Fish Cooked in Fat 

Season with salt and pepper, dip in flour, egg, and dried crumbs. 
Fry in deep fat. Drain on paper. 

Fried Smelts 

Clean smelts, leaving on heads and tails. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, dip in flour, egg, and crumbs, and fry 3-4 minutes in deep 
fat. Arrange on hot platter. Garnish with parsley and lemon. 
§erve with Sauce Tartare. 

Shad Roe 

Wash and cook in boiling, salted water 10 minutes. Drain and 
dry. Season. Broil or brown in butter. 

Turbans of Flounder 

Clean fish, remove skin and backbone. Cut each fillet in two 
pieces or if very large three pieces. Season with salt and pepper, 
roll and fasten with small skewers or toothpicks. Dip in crumbs, 
egg and crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Drain on brown paper and serve 
with Sauce Tartare. 

Planked Haddock 

Skin and bone a haddock, leaving meat in two fillets. Brown fillets 
separately. Remove to a plank and season with salt and pepper. 
Garnish with mashed potatoes, outUning the original shape of the 
fish. Bake untU potatoes are well browned. Finish garnishing with 
parsley and slices of lemon covered with finely chopped parsley. 

Fish Combined with Other Foods 

Fish Balls 

Ingredients : 

1 c. salt codfish i egg 

2 c. potatoes 5 tbsp. butter 

5 tsp. pepper 



l62 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Wash the fish in cold water and break into small pieces. Wash 
and pare the potatoes and cut into pieces. Cook the fish and potatoes 
together in boiling water until the potatoes are soft. Drain and 
shake over the fire untU dry ; mash with a wire potato masher, add 
the beaten egg, butter and pepper, and beat until light. Take up 
the mixture by spoonfuls, mold slightly and slip into the hot fat. 
Fry until brown, or shape into round, flat cakes, dredge with flour 
and brown in butter. ' 

Scalloped Fish 
Ingredients : 

2 c. flaked fish 2 c. medium white sauce 

I c. buttered crumbs 

Creamed Codfish 

Reheat boiled codfish in medium white sauce. An egg may be 
added. Serve on toast. 

Fish Chowder 

Ingredients : 

S lb. haddock 4 c. cold water 

4 c. diced potatoes 2 tbsp. butter 

I onion 4 tbsp. flour 

i c. diced salt pork 4 c. scalded mUk 

salt, pepper, cayenne 10 buttered crackers 

Method : 

Remove head, skin, and bones and cut fish into fiUets. Cover 
head, skin, and bones with cold water. Simmer 20 minutes, strain, 
and reserve liquid. Parboil potatoes 10 minutes. Cook onions in 
salt pork until yellow. Remove onion and salt pork if desired. 
Arrange fish and potatoes in layers, seasoning with salt and pepper. 
Cover with water in which bones were cooked and simmer until 
potatoes are tender. Combine mixtures and pour over buttered 
crackers which have been soaked in enough cold milk to moisten 
them. 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 163 

Fish Sauces 

Egg Sauce 

Ingredients : 

1 pt. boiling water i tsp. salt 

J c. butter i tbsp. lemon juice or vinegar 

cayenne 2 hard-cooked eggs 

Method : 

Prepare in the same way as white sauce. The eggs may be chopped 
or the whites sliced and the yolks pressed through a sieve and added 
to the sauce. 

Drawn Butter Sauce 

Ingredients : 

I c. butter I5 c. hot water 

3 tbsp. flour 5 tsp. salt 

i tsp. pepper 

Method : 

Melt I the butter, add flour and seasonings and gradually the hot 
water. Boil 5 minutes and add remaining butter in small pieces. 



Bechamel Sauce 

Ingredients : 

i| c. white stock j c. butter 

I slice onion i c. flour 

I slice carrot i c. scalded milk 

I bay leaf | tsp. salt 

parsley i tsp. pepper 

Method : 

Cook stock 20 minutes with onion, carrot, bay leaf, parsley ; strain. 
There should be i cupful. Melt the butter, add flour and gradually 
hot stock and milk. Season with salt and pepper. 



164 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Maitre d'Hatel Butter 

Ingredients : 

I c. butter 5 tbsp. chopped parsley 

5 tsp. salt f tbsp. lemon jmce 

J tsp. pepper 
Method : 

Put butter in a bowl and cream. Add salt, pepper, and parsley, 
then lemon juice very slowly. The heat of the meat or fish wUl 
dissolve the butter. 

Sauce Tartare 

To f c. mayonnaise dressing add I tbsp. each, finely chopped. 

capers onions 

pickles parsley 

4 shallot 1 , . , 
, ^ , , ^ f may be omitted 

1 tsp. powdered tarragon J 

Hollandaise Sauce 

Ingredients : 

5 c. butter J tsp. salt 

2 egg yolks -^ tsp. cayenne 
15 tsp. lemOn juice 5 c. boiling water 

Method : 

Cream the butter and add yolks one at a time ; beat well. Add 
seasoning, then boiling water and cook over hot water, stirring con- 
stantly until mixture thickens. Remove from fire, add lemon juice 
and serve at once. 

Mock Hollandaise Sauce 

Ingredients : 

3 tbsp. butter i tsp. salt 
3 tbsp. flour i-i lemon 
2 c. milk 2 eggs 

Method : 

Prepare white sauce. Pour over beaten eggs, stir until it thickens. 
Add lemon juice before serving. 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 



l6S 



FOOD VALUES 
Creamed Codfish on Toast 



^o 



S 2 
(-1 H 






1^1 









§1 



Bread . 
Fish . 
Butter 
Butter 
Flour . 
Milk . 

Total, 
cooked 

loo-Calorie 
portion 



2 slices 
2 tbsp. 
litbsp. 
2 tbsp. 
2 tbsp. 



78 

14.6 

iS-7 

2i 

14.1 
216.6 



7.2 

4 
.15 
.28 

1.58 

7.14 



.92 
.04 

13-34 
23.8 

• 14 
8.67 



40.78 



10.56 
18.83 



200 

17 
121 

21S 

SO 

ISO 



,008 

009 

,0119 

,0212 

0015 

,0225 



.022 
.003 
.004 
.006 
.004 
•3S8 



• IS 

•09 

.004 

.008 

.025 

•454 



.0006 
.0001 



.0002 
.0005 



2 slices 1 
bread > 

f c.fishj 
i slice 1 
bread > 

i c. fish J 



333 



242.9 



20.4 



2.7 



46.91 



6.2 



70.17 



933 



753 



,0742 



•396 



•OS3 



■731 



.097 



.0014 



SHELLFISH 

Shellfish are divided into two classes : (a) mollusks, and 
(b) crustaceans. Clams, oysters, scallops, and mussels belong 
to the first class, and lobsters, crabs, shrimps, and crawfish 
belong to the second class. 

Oysters. Qysters are the most important of the shellfish 
as factors in the general food supply. The flavor depends' 
on the locality in which they are grown. The smaller are 
sought for serving raw, and the medium and larger for cooking. 
They are in season from September to May and are much safer 
in the latter part of the winter.' The whole flesh of the oyster 

' The danger of infection through eating oysters from polluted waters is dis- 
cussed in Prescott and Winslow's Elements 0} Water Bacteriology, and Sherman's 
Food Products. 



1 66 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

is edible, even the muscle by which it opens and shuts its shell 
being tender. 

Clams. Clams are of two kinds. They are known as hard 
and soft, or round and long, and in Rhode Island the hard, 
round clam bears the Indian name Quahaug, the soft-shell clam 
being the only " clam." The round clams are raked from the 
bottom of shallow waters and are used when young and small 
in place of raw oysters. The long clams lie buried in the mud 
of creeks and shores left exposed at low tide, and are dug out 
of the mud with hooks. Both kinds of clams have a tough 
portion that is softened in cooking and that is more or less 
indigestible. The long " neck " which protrudes from the 
shell should be discarded. Clams are always in season. They 
are cheap and are commonly used in soups and chowders. 

Scallops. Scallops as purchased consist solely of the round 
white muscle which operates the shell. The scallop is migra- 
tory and reaches the creeks and shores in autumn. 

Lobsters. The muscle of lobsters compares favorably with 
meat. When fresh, and served at a suitable time, lobsters are 
not indigestible. 

Crabs. Crabs, like lobsters, shed their shell annually. When 
the new shell is forming, they are called soft-shell crabs. They 
are found near the coast of the Southern and Middle States, 
and are usually high-priced. Crabs should be inspected accord- 
ing to the rules for lobsters. 

Steamed Clams 

For steaming, clams should be bought in the shell. Wash in 
several waters. Place in saucepan, allowing j c. water to i qt. 
clams. Cover closely and steam until clams partially open. Care 
should be taken not to overcook them'. Serve with melted butter. 
A few drops of lemon juice may be added to the butter. 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 



167 



Ingredients : 


Clam Broth 




2 doz. clams 




water 


2 tbsp. butter 




pepper 



salt 
Method : 

Wash and scrub clams and place in saucepan with cold water. 
Cook until shells are open. Evaporate liquid down to 2 c. Remove 
soft part from shells, add to liquid, add seasonings, reheat, and serve 
with a cracker or piece of toast. 



Ingredients : 

3 doz. clams 

1 c. boiling water 

2 c. potato cubes 

4 slices bacon 



Clam Chowder I 



I onion 
4 tbsp. butter 
4 c. scalded mUk 
8 crackers 



salt and pepper 
Method : 

Wash and steam clams. Remove meat and chop. Cook potatoes, 
bacon, onion, salt, pepper, and butter in clam juice until, vegetables 
are soft, adding more water if needed. Add clams and simmer 3 
minutes. Add mUk and crackers before serving. 



B 



Clam Chowder 11 

Ingredients : 

1 5 doz. clams 
I c. tomatoes 
I tbsp. catsup 
4 slices bacon 
I cubed potato 

1 shce toast — diced 

2 tbsp. cracker crumbs 

Method : 

Strain hquor from clams, add to B with boiling water. 
until potatoes are tender, add A, boil 3 minutes. Add C. 



5 tsp. tabasco sauce 

^ tsp. salt 

J tsp. pepper 

I tsp. parsley 

I onion 

4 sliced lemon 



Simmer 



l68 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Oyster Broth 

Ingredients : 

I c. oysters J tsp. salt 

i^ c. milk pepper 

1 5 tbsp. water i tbsp. butter 

Method : 

Scald milk. Heat oysters in water until plump. Add milk and 
seasonings. 

Oyster Stew 
Ingredients : 

I pt. oysters i pt. thin white sauce 

Method : 

Heat the oysters in their own liquor or suflScient water until the 
edges curl. 

Add cooked oysters to white sauce just before serving. 



Oyster Cocktail 

Ingredients : 

I tsp. grated horseradish 2 tbsp. tomato catsup 

6-8 drops tabasco sauce J tsp. salt 

3 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

Method : 
Serve in glasses or in halves of grapefruit. 



Fried Oysters 

Ingredients : 

2 doz. large oysters i| c. grated crumbs 

I egg and i tbsp. water salt, pepper 

Method : 

Drain oysters, wash, dry, and season with salt and pepper. 
Crumb, egg and crumb oysters, and fry in deep fat. 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 169 

Pigs in Blankets or Oysters in Bacon 

Ingredients : 

1 doz. oysters 4 slices toast 

I doz. slices bacon 
Method: 

Drain oysters, wash, dry, and roll each in bacon. Fasten with 
skewer. Cook in hot omelet pan until slightly crisp and brown. 
Remove skewer and serve on toast. 

Oyster Fricassee 

Ingredients : 

J c. butter paprika 

2 tsp. salt pepper 

2 qts. oysters 
Method : 

Place butter, salt, and pepper in a saucepan, and when hot, add 
oysters. Cover and shake until oysters are plump. Drain and add 
cream to the liquid to make 2 c. 

Make sauce of the 2 c. liquid 2 tsp. lemon juice 

J c. butter 2 eggs 

J c. flour 
Add oysters. Serve on toast. 

Lobsters 

Directions : 

Lobsters should be bought alive. Small ones, heavy for their size, 
are best. If they are bought after being cooked, the taU should 
spring back quickly when straightened, otherwise the lobster was 
dead before being cooked. 

Cook 15-30 minutes below boiling point. When done, place in 
cold water. If cooked too long, they become tough. 

Break off the claws, separate tail from body and body from shell. 
Save the coral. Crush the tail by pressing the sides together, then 
puU or cut it open on the under side and take out the meat in one 
piece. Remove the intestine which runs the entire length. Break 
off the tail from the body before picking the meat from the joints. 



lyo LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

The gills, the stomach, and the intestines are the only parts not eaten. 
The liver may or may not be eaten. Break the body in the middle 
lengthwise and pick the meat from the joints. Pound the claws 
carefully so that the meat may be removed without being crushed. 
The meat should not be kept more than i8 hours after it is cooked. 
Season with salt and cayenne, pack in a covered jar, and place on 
ice. If French dressing is to be used, omit salt and cayenne from the 
recipe. 

If it is desired to save the tail for serving the salad, break it on the 
inside. 

Lobster Newburg 



2 c. lobster meat nutmeg 

2 tbsp. butter ^ c. sherry 

5 tsp. salt 2 tbsp. brandy 

cayenne § c. thin cream 
3 egg yolks 
Method : 

Melt butter, add lobster meat, and cook 3 minutes. Add cream 
and egg yolks slightly beaten. Stir the mixture until thickened, over 
hot water. Add wine and serve. 



Ingredients : 
6 crabs 
2 tbsp. butter 
2 tbsp. flour 



Devilled Crabs 



I tbsp. lemon juice 
I tsp. parsley 

J tsp. Worcestershire sauce 
If c. cream 



^ tsp. mustard 

2 drops tabasco sauce 

5 tsp. salt 
cayenne 
Method ; 

Cook crabs in boiling water (salted) for 20 minutes. Place in cold 
water for a few minutes. Pick out the meat, being careful not to 
break the shell. Make a sauce of the remaining ingredients, season 
highly, and add crab meat to it. If the mixture is too stiff, add milk 
or cream to make the right consistency. Wash and scrub the upper 
shell and fill with the mixture. Cover with buttered crumbs and 
bake from 1 5-20 minutes, or until brown. 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 1 71 

Soft-shell Crabs 
Method: 

Lift each point of the back shell and remove the spongy substance 
found beneath it. Turn the crab on its back and remove the semi- 
circular piece of dark, soft shell called the " apron," and the spongy 
substance under it. Wash and dry. Proceed as for Fried Oysters. 

References 
Fish 

Atwater and Bryant. The Composition of American Food Mate- 
rials. United States Department of Agriculture, Ofl&ce of 
Experiment Stations, Biilletin 28 (Revised). 

Green. How to Cook Fish. 

Green. How to Cook Shellfish. 

Langworthy. Fish as Food. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Farmers' Bulletin 85 (Revised 1907). 

MiLNER. Digestibility of Fish and Poultry. Storrs (Conn.) Agri- 
cultural Experiment Station, Seventeenth Annual Report, 
pages 116-142 (1905). 

Prescott and Winslow. Elements of Water Bacteriology. 

Sherman. Food Products. 

Thompson. Practical Dietetics. 

United States Bureau of Fisheries. Reports and Bulletins. 

Wiley. Foods and their Adulterations. 



CHAPTER XII 
FLOUR MIXTURES 

Flour mixtures are taken to mean food materials in which 
the basis is flour to which is added liquid, and a leaven ; sugar, 
butter, and various fruits or condiments may be added also. 
These mixtures are baked, fried, or steamed. The composition 
and nutritive value of a flour mixture naturally varies with the 
ingredients. No general statements need be attempted, but 
the student should work out the food values of as many of the 
products as time permits. See also .1 Laboratory Manual for 
Dietetics, Mrs. Mary S. Rose, and Bulletin 28, of the OflSce of 
Experiment Stations, United States Department of Agriculture. 

For the purposes of this book it seems best to take up the 
experiments on Flour Mixtures as a connected group, while a 
division is made in the recipes. 

FLOUR EXPERIMENTS 

143. — To J c. bread flour in a bowl, add just enough cold water 
to make a stif dough. Knead with a wooden spoon or the fingers 
for 5 minutes. Cover the bowl with a cheesecloth and allow it 
to stand for 30 minutes so that the water may develop the full amount 
of gluten.' 

After the dough has stood for 30 minutes, add sufficient cold water 
to cover the mixture and knead the mass gently but thoroughly in 
the bowl. 

' At least four different kinds of protein can be isolated, but the most important 
for us to take account of are gliadin, and glutenin, the essential constituents of 
" glulen." 

172 



FLOUR MIXTURES 173 

a. Notice the milky color of the water as soon as the 
kneading begins. 

b. To what is the rnQky color due? 

c. Determine by the iodine test, page 13. 

144. — Continue kneading the mass, changing the water fre- 
quently until it no longer shows the milky color. 

The resultant mass is gluten. Notice the stringy, elastic character. 

Notice the color. 

Save for subsequent experiments. 

Note : Perhaps some of the class have made "gum" by chewing wheat grain 
and remember the sticky, elastic mass with sweetish taste which results. 

145. — To small portions of the washed gluten, apply the following 
tests : 

a. Xanthoproteic, page 85. 

b. Iodine, page 13. 

c. Fehling-Benedict, page 13. 

146. — Burn a small portion ; an odor as of burning wool or feathers 
is noticed. 

What material burns with such an odor ? 

147. — Dry a small piece of gluten with a cheesecloth. 
Place it on an ungreased pan and bake it in a hot oven. 

The mass will expand, but, on removing from the oven, will contract. 
What causes it to change shape ? 
How can it expand and contract without cracking ? 
To which class of foodstuffs does gluten belong? What are its 
physical characteristics ? 

148. — To give the class a more comprehensive idea of gluten, the 
instructor should contrast the following by preparing gluten or 
attempting to prepare gluten : 

a. pastry flour d. graham flour 

b. rye flour e. corn meal 

c. entire wheat 

Note : These experiments should demonstrate to the class the reasons for 
the thorough kneading of breads as contrasted with the slight 
beating of cake after the flour has been added. 



174 LABORATORY MANU7U. OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Bread * 

149. — Make a microscopic examination of bread and pastry flour in : 

a. A drop of cold water. 

b. A drop of dilute iodine. 
Describe your observations. 

150. — Do the same with rye and corn meal. 

151. — Apply the iodine and MUlon tests to small pieces of both 
the crust and the soft inner portions of a piece of bread. 

What do you notice as to the intensity of color and quickness of 
reaction ? 

152. — a. Separate the crust and softer part. Put each, broken 
into small pieces, into a small beaker of cold water. Let stand 30 
minutes and then filter through a wet fluted filter. 

b. To the filtered extract from each beaker, apply the 
following tests : 

Iodine, page 13. 
Fehling-Benedict, page 13. 
Biuret, page 85. 
Xanthoproteic, page 85. 

c. After performing b, what are your conclusions? 

153. — The instructor will be able to amplify the experiment by 
repeating 161 and 162 with portions of the following food materials : 

a. plain mufiSn c. soda cracker. 

h. plain cake. d. uneeda biscuit. 

Review the experiment with dextrin (page 61). 

MufiSns 

164. — Use recipe for plain muffins. Combine ingredients in the 
following manner and bake samples at the following temperatures : * 

' These temperatures are suggested by Miss \'an Arsdale in the Bulletin, Some 
Attempts to Standardize Oven Temperatures for Cookery Processes. Note which 
range in temperature approximated a satisfactory result. Take the most satis- 
factory range and again bake muffins, using the selected temperatures as a starting 
point from which to formulate a range in temperature which produces desirable 
results. What conditions influence the production of muffins and necessitate a 
graduation in temperature ? 



FLOUR MIXTURES 175 

250-350° F. 
350-400° F. 
400-450° F. 
450-550° F. 

jln all the experiments with Flour Mixtures use the temperatures 
stated above as a starting point from which to make your own tem- 
peratures. 

a. Sugar, unbeaten egg, melted shortening, dry ingredients, 
liquid. Mix thoroughly. 

h. Sugar, egg beaten with Dover egg beater, dry ingre- 
dients, liquid, melted shortening, no extra mixing. 

c. Shortening creamed, yolk of egg, sugar, | liquid, dry 
ingredients, 5 liquid, stiffly beaten whites of eggs folded in. 

d. Dry ingredients, chop in shortening, sugar, liquid, un- 
beaten eggs. 

e. Compare results as to texture, flavor, crusj, excess fat. 

155. — Use recipe for Plain Mufifins. Combine ingredients as above. 
Other ingredients being alike in each case, use for shortening the 

following : 

a. butter 

6. I butter, | lard 

c. lard 

d. oleomargarine 

e. crisco 
/. corn oil 

g. pure cottonseed oil 
h. cheese 

156. — As in Expt. 155, except as follows: 
Use for liquid the following : 

a. sweet milk 

b. sour mUk 

c. buttermilk 

d. condensed milk (diluted) 

e. mUk powder (liquefied) 
/. J mUk, J water. 

g. water. 



176 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

157. — As before, except as follows : 

Use for leaven the following (calculate the amount of leaven re- 
quired in each case) : 

a. soda and cream of tartar 

b. soda and sour mUk 

c. alum baking powder 

d. phosphate baking powder 

e. yeast 

In each Expt. (165-157) 

a. Compare the practical use of the variations in ingredients. 

b. Compare approximate differences in cost in variations. 

c. Conclusions. 

Biscuits 

168. — Use recipe for Baking Powder Biscuits. Combine ingredi- 
ents in the following manner : 

a. Dry ingredients, shortening chopped in, liquid. Mix 
with a knife just enough to combine the ingredients. Turn the dough 
on a slightly floured board and roll it out, cut (see Expt. 159) , and bake. 

b. Dry ingredients, liquid, melted shortening stirred into 
mixture with a spoon. Turn it on a slightly floured board, roll, cut 
out (see Expt. 169), and bake. 

159. — Divide biscuits cut out in Expt. 158 into three parts, ai, 02, 
03 ; 61, 62, 63. Brush ai and bi with a little milk before baking. 
Brush 02 and 62 with a little melted butter before baking. Bake 
03 and 63 as cut out. Compare results. 

160. — Use recipe for Baking Powder Biscuits. 
Substitute for butter the following shortenings: 



a. 
b. 
c. 


1 butter, 1 lard 

oleomargarine 

lard 


/• 
g- 
h. 


chicken fat 
olive oil 
cottonseed oil 


d. 
e. 


crisco 

beef drippings 


i. 
J- 


corn oil 
peanut oil 



Compare the results as to appearance, flavor, texture. 

161. — Compute the cost of the products of Expt. 160 and compare 
with the rating as to quality. 



FLOUR MIXTURES 177 

Pastry 

162. — Use recipe for plain paste. Combine ingredients in the 
following manner : 

a. Dry ingredients, shortening chopped in, ice water. 
ChUl before rolling out. 

b. Dry ingredients and ice water made into a dough. RoU 
mixture on a pastry cloth. Fold and roU the shortening in. 

c. Dry ingredients and melted shortening mixed as much 
as possible. ChUl, chop mixture into uncombined flour. Add ice 
water. 

Note : An interesting observation can be made from the following experi- 
ment : 
Dry ingredients, measured and mdted shortening, versus dry ingre- 
dients, melted and measured shortening. 

163. — From the results of Expt. 162 decide upon the best method 
of combining ingredients and bake the following pies in this manner : 

Pastry shell : 

a. dredge with flour — apple pie. 

6. brush over with white of egg — custard pie. 

c. bake before filhng — cream pie. 

Sum up your observations concerning shortenings used in pastry, 
methods of combining, and baking of pies. 

Cake 

164. — Note that the general rule for plain cake conforms to these 
proportions : 

J as much shortening as sugar. 

f as much hquid as flour. 

2 tsp. of baking powder to each cup of flour, but for every egg after 
the first, 5 tsp. of baking powder is deducted. 

Combine the ingredients for plain cake in the following ways. 
Bake the products at the same temperature : 

a. Cream the butter, add sugar, whole eggs imbeaten, mili, 
sifted dry ingredients. 

b. Cream the butter, add unbeaten egg yolk, sugar, milk, 
sifted dry ingredients, beaten egg white. 



lyS LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

c. Egg yolk, sugar, milk, sifted dry ingredients, melted 
butter, beaten egg white. 

d. Cream the butter, add sugar, beaten egg yolk, milk and 
dry ingredients alternately, beaten egg whites. 

165. — Repeat Expt. 164, substituting for butter the following : 

a. § butter, | crisco 

b. 5 butter, ^ lard 

c. oleomargarine 

d. crisco 

e. cottonseed oil 
/. corn oil 

g. chicken fat 

166. — a. Use the rule for plain cake, and prepare three cakes, 
using for shortening, butter, oleo, crisco. 

b. Divide each rule into 5 parts A, B, C, D, E. Bake A 
in a slow oven ; record temperature. Bake B in a moderate oven ; 
record temperature. Bake C in a slow oven, increasing the tempera- 
ture ; record stages and changes in temperature. 

Bake D in a hot oven, reducing the temperature ; record tempera- 
tures and changes at each stage. Bake E in a cold oven, that is, 
hght the burners when the cake is placed in the oven. Summarize 
results. 

Record the optimum method of combination of ingredients and 
oven temperature for each fat used in cake baking. 

167. — a. Add chocolate to plain cake recipe. Determine the 
amount necessary. What change in the amount of flour is necessary ? 
Why? 

b. Add nuts to plain cake recipe. Compare with plain 
cake. What change in the recipe is necessary? Why? 

168. — a. Cake without butter : compare the recipe for butter 
cake with that for sponge cake. Note the absence of butter in the 
latter and also the greater number of eggs. Review the experiments 
with eggs and recall the effect of various temperatures in the cooking 
of eggs. Review the oven temperatures given by Miss Van Arsdale 



FLOUR MIXTURES 179 

in Some Attempts to Standardize Oven Temperatures, and compare with 
those determined in preceding experiments with butter cake. Se- 
lect the range in each instance which corresponds to " slow " and 
" moderate." Prepare one rule of sponge cake (use first recipe) and 
bake samples at those temperatures. Compare as to moisture, 
texture, and length of cooking. 

b. Repeat the above experiment, using any sponge cake 
recipe calling for a large number of eggs. In what way do the re- 
sults differ from those in the preceding one ? How do you account 
for these differences ? 

c. Repeat, using the first recipe for white sponge cake or 
angel cake. Compare the results with those in a and b. Account 
for the differences noted. What is a satisfactory range in oven tem- 
peratures for each type of cake? 

d. Having determined the oven temperature in the above 
experiments, prepare three sponge cakes, combining the ingredients 
in the following manner : 

Beat yolks with Dover egg beater. Add the sugar. 

I Dover egg beater, 
silver fork, 
wire whisk. 
Fold in the whites before the flour. 
Fold in the whites after the flour. 
Stir in the whites after the flour. 

Bake and compare as to texture. Which method seems most 
satisfactory ? 

Note : This experiment can be successfully carried out if arranged so that 
samples of a, b, and c are baked together at the various tempera- 
tures. Comparison is thus made easy. 

Leavens — Leavening Agents 

A leaven or leavening agent is something which will lighten 
a mixture. Flour mixtures are usually leavened by steam, by 
evolution of carbon dioxide, or by the expansion of inclosed 
and heated air. White of egg or cream may be said to be 
" leavened " when " whipped," in which case the leavening 



l8o LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

consists simply in the mechanical incorporation of air bubbles. 
In some bakeries (especially in England) dough is leavened by 
incorporating air under pressure, which when the pressure is 
released wUl expand even without application of heat. 

When leavening is to be accomplished by means of carbon 
dioxide the latter is usually produced either : 

(i) by yeast fermentation, producing carbon dioxide from 
a portion of the carbohydrate of the mixture ; 

(2) by interaction of sodium bicarbonate (" cooking soda ") 
with an acid substance (either free acid or acid salt) in the 
presence of moisture. 

Sour milk, buttermilk, vinegar, molasses, and some fruit juices 
contain free acids. 

Many fruit juices contain acid salts. 

Acid salts used as such to liberate carbon dioxide from sodium 
bicarbonate — in other words used as the " acid constituent " 
of baking powders — are chiefly : (a) acid potassium tartrate 
(cream of tartar), (6) acid phosphate, (c) some form of alum or 
aluminum sulphate ; hence the classification of baking powders 
in three main groups — the " tartrate," the " phosphate," and 
the " alum " powders. 

EXPERIMENTS WITH LEAVENS AND LEAX-ENING 
AGENTS 
Egg, air, steam 

169. — Measure the unbeaten white of an egg in a tablespoon. 
Beat with a Dover egg beater and measure in a tablespoon. Result? 

170. — Whip an unbeaten egg white with a wire whisk. What 
is the difference in volume? To what is this due? Notice the dif- 
ference in size of air spaces where Dover beater is used as compared 
with wire whisk. 

171. — Perform 169 and 170 each with an egg yolk. 
Why is the increase in volume less noticeable ? 



FLOUR MIXTURES l8l 

What is the marked difference in the composition of the egg yolk 
as compared with the egg white? 

172. — a. Use the unbeaten egg to make popovers. 

b. Use the beaten egg to make sponge cake. 

c. Use the whipped egg to make Foamy Omelet. Compare 
texture of each product. Explain. 

d. Which egg white at time of using contains most water? 

Sodium bicarbonate 

173. — Have ready for this and the succeeding experiments, the 
following : 

baking soda molasses 

cream of tartar chocolate 

lemon juice coffee 

vinegar hot water 

sour rmlk tomato 
limewater 

Test with litmus and record reaction of each. 

174. — Carbon dioxide precipitates the lime in a solution of lime 
and water. This can be shown by breathing through a tube, one end 
of which is immersed in a beaker of limewater. The white, chalky 
deposit which soon appears on the bottom of the beaker is carbonate 
of lime from the lime of solution and the carbon dioxide of the breath. 

175. — Arrange g test tubes with perforated corks or rubber stop- 
pers fitted with a bent tube to conduct gas from test tube into beaker 
of limewater. 

In each dry test tube put | tsp. dry baking soda. Arrange per- 
forated corks or stoppers with bent tube and have ready to adjust 
at once and conduct the gas given off into limewater (equal volume 
in each beaker). 

When all is ready, put i tbsp. of an acid or hot water respectively 
into a test tube until all have been used. Several phenomena wUl 
be observed. 

Note the evolution of gas, rapidity with which given off, compara- 
tive amount of carbonate of lime deposited. Conclude the corre- 
sponding amount of carbon dioxide given off. 

Tabulate and compare the results. 



l82 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

176. — If the facilities of the chemical laboratory are available, 
make the experiment with cream of tartar quantitatively, using pure 
substances. 

177. — In the experiment with cream of tartar, it will be neces- 
sary to add water before the action will take place. 

What does this explain in regard to baking powder ? 
Why is corn starch or flour used in the manufacture of baking 
powder ? 

178. — Test J tsp. of baking powder with i tbsp. hot water. As- 
suming that the baking powder is a mixture of sodiimi bicarbonate and 
an acid salt, can you determine the nature of the latter by chemical 
analysis ? 

179. Prepare baking powder according to the following proportion : 

5 lb. cream tartar 
J lb. baking soda 
J lb. corn starch 
Sift six times 

Yeasts 

180. — Fermentation of molasses. Into a common test tube or 
any glass vial, place a solution made by mixing one spoonful of 
molasses with ten spoonfuls of water. Rub up a little compressed 
yeast in water and put a few drops into the tube of molasses water. 
Set aside in a warm place and let it stand for about 24 hours. At 
the end of this time a vigorous fermentation will be seen. The liquid 
will have become somewhat cloudy, mmierous bubbles can be seen 
rising through it, a froth forms on top, and a mass of sediment soon 
collects at the bottom. The bubbles are the carbon dioxide which 
is escaping into the air ; the sediment at the bottom is the growing 
mass of yeast, and the alcohol, which looks like water, is dissolved 
in the liquid and is, of course, invisible. 

181. — Proof of the nature of the gas. Prepare two tubes. 
In tube A place molasses and water inoculated with several drops 
of yeast, as in the last experiment. Put the cork in place and insert 
the other end of the tube into a second tube underneath the surface 
of some clear limewater. Set aside in a warm place until vigorous 



FLOUR MIXTURES 183 

fennentation occurs. Note the bubbles of gas that arise from the fer- 
menting tube and bubble up through the limewater. The limewater 
soon becomes turbid, showing that the gas contains carbon dioxide. 

182. — Rub a bit of yeast cake in a little water so as to make a 
slightly cloudy solution. Place a drop of the solution upon a micro- 
scope slide, cover with a cover glass, and examine first with a f-inch 
objective. Note that the water seems to be filled with very minute 
dots. Study with a higher power (^ in. objective). Examine the 
yeast cells, noting the shape and comparative size. 

183. — Growing yeast. With a glass rod, remove a drop of the 
sediment from growing yeast prepared as in Expt. 180. Place the 
drop on a slide, cover with a cover glass, and study as in the previous 
case. Remove some of the yeast found floating on the surface and 
study in the same way. Note that the yeast cells are in groups. 
Make a sketch of several groups, showing buds of various sizes. Note 
any other differences you can see between this growing yeast and the 
compressed yeast cake. 

184. — Effect of boiling. Prepare two test tubes of molasses and 
water and inoculate each with a drop of yeast. Plug with cotton. 
Place one test tube in water and boil for ten minutes, and then leave 
both test tubes side by side in a warm place for two days, and deter- 
mine whether the boiling has been sufficient to kill the yeast. 

185. — Wild yeast. Prepare several test tubes of molasses and 
water as described and without plugging with cotton leave exposed 
in various places for two or three days. Determine by the appear- 
ance of bubbles whether fermentation occurs. If any change takes 
place in the liquids, examine with a microscope to determine whether 
yeasts have found entrance from the air or whether some other micro- 
organisms are growing in the solutions. Commonly, bacteria will be 
found more abundant than yeasts. 

186. — Effect of age on yeast. Obtain an old sample of dried 
yeast cake. Prepare two tubes of molasses and water and inocu- 
late one with a small quantity of the old yeast cake and two others 
with a similar quantity of a fresh cake. Set aside in a warm place 
and determine in which fermentation starts sooner, and in which it 



1 84 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

is the more vigorous. Examine with a microscope after fermenta- 
tion begins, to see if either contains other organisms besides yeast. 

187. — Action of yeast on bread. Mix up a little flour and water 
to about the consistency of dough for bread making and divide into 
three lots, A, B, and C. Into A and B place a little compressed 
yeast. A and B are then to be placed in a warm place for five or six 
hours, while C, without the yeast, is to be baked at once. After A 
and B have risen under the influence of the yeast, bake B at once in 
the oven, while A is to be thoroughly kneaded and then baked. 
Compare the results of A, B, and C, noticing the difference in the 
textures of the bread. 

188. — Over raising. Mix another lot of dough with yeast in the 
same way and allow it to rise in a warm place for twelve hours or 
more. Test with litmus paper to see if it is acid. Bake and taste to 
see if it has become sour. 

189. — Repeat Expt. 187, comparing cold mUk, scalded mUk, 
and water as the liquid to be used in the dough. Note which 
dough sours first. 

190. — Bread raised by wild yeast. Put a small amount of salt 
in a little mUk and then allow it to stand in a warm place until a 
froth appears. Mix it with flour to make a dough and set aside to 
rise. Does the dough rise as rapidly and as satisfactorily as when 
yeast is used? Does the baked dough have the same taste? 

191. — Kumiss. Into a quart of mUk, put two tbsp. of granu- 
lated sugar and add about t^s of a compressed yeast cake. Put in a 
warm place and leave for 24 hours. Cool and taste. This wUl be 
kumiss or fermented milk. Is it sour? 

192. — Prepare equal weights of the following sugars : 

a. sucrose d. glucose 

b. maltose e. levulose 

c. lactose 

Dissolve each in small equal quantities of distilled water. (These 
solutions are for the next experiment.) Note any changes in appear- 
ance which may occur, and the rapidity with which each sugar 



FLOUR MIXTURES 185 

dissolves. Using a small measured fraction of each solution can you 
detect any difference in sweetness ? 

193. — a. Prepare small, equal weights of compressed yeast cake 
and mix one portion with each sugar solution. Turn the mixture 
into fermentation tubes and allow them to stand in a imiformly warm 
place. 

b. Note in which tube fermentation begins and the rapidity 
with which it proceeds. 

c. Compare the volume of gas collected during a unit 
length of time. 

d. What do you conclude as to the relative fermentative 
qualities of the sugars used? 

e. Of what significance is this ? 

Flour Mixtures (Common designations) 



Biscuits 




Doughnuts 


Muffins 




Waffles 


Bread 




Griddlecakes 


Rolls 




Timbales 


Cookies 




Fillings and frostings 


Cakes 




Pastry 




Fillings 


for pie 



Classification of Flour Mixtures 

Batters — beaten. 

Doughs — mixed with knife or kneaded and rolled out. 

Proportion of Liquid to Flour 

Thin Batters Thick Batters 



I -I 


1-2 


Griddlecakes 


Cake 


Waffies 


Suet puddings 


Fritters 


Emergency biscuit 


Popovers 


Muffins 




Dropped cookies 



l86 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Soft Dough Stiff Dough 

1-3 1-4 

Biscuit Pastry 

Crullers Rolled cookies 
Bread 
Rolls 



Flour Mixtures 

Essential Ingredients : Non-essential Ingredients : 



Flour 


Eggs 


Liquid 


Sweetening 


Leavening agent 


Shortening 


Salt 


Flavoring 



Function of : 

Flour : to give substance or body. 
Liquid : to hold dry ingredients together. 

Milk Eggs 

Water Coffee 

Molasses Cocoa 

Wine Brandy 

Leavening agent : to produce a gas which separates the particles, and 
expands by the heat applied in baking, thus raising the mixture. 

Leavening Agents 

Baking powder 

Yeast 

Baking soda and an acid 

Salt : to increase palatability. 
Shortening : to make brittle by enriching. 

Butter Suet 

Oleomargarine Drippings 

Lard Chicken fat 

Crisco Refined oils 



FLOUR MIXTURES 187 

Sweetening : 

Sugar Molasses 

Brown sugar Karo 

Glucose 
Eggs : to moisten 
to thicken 
to leaven 
to flavor 
Flavoring : to increase palatability. 

Spices Fruit juices 

Extracts Fruit rinds 

Oven Temperature 

Biscuit, ■■' hot " 1 °F., 1 ° C. 

Bread, " hot " ° F., ° C. 

„ , f with butter " moderate " ° F., ° C. 

I without butter " cool " ° F., ° C. 

Cookies, " moderate " '. . ° F., ° C. 

Muffins, " moderate " ° F., ° C. 

Pastry, " hot " ° F., ° C. 

Popovers, " very hot to moderate " . . . . ° F., ° C. 

Rolls, " hot to moderate " ° F., ° C. 

References 

Flour and Bread 

Atwater, H. W. Bread and Bread Making. United States De- 
partment of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 389 (1910). 

Bevier. Some Points in the Making and Judging of Bread. Uni- 
versity of Illinois, Bulletin, vol. 10 (March 17, 1913). 

Bread Lesson. Demonstration. Iowa State College, Agricultural 
Department, Short Course Class Notes, No. i. 

Bulletin on Idaho Bread Contest Clubs. Idaho State Department 
of Public Instruction. 

Calvin. Essentials of Bread Making. Oregon Agricultural College, 
Domestic Science and Art Project, Circular, No. 6. 

' Supply temperatures found by experiment (see pages 174-179). 



i88 LABORATORY MANU7UL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Grant. The Chemistry of Bread Making. 

Harcourt and Purdy. Flour and Bread Making. Ontario Agri- 
cultural College, Department of Agriculture, Bulletin i8o (igio). 

Hunt. The Cereals in America. 

Jago. The Technology of Bread Making. 

KoHMAN. Salt-raising Bread and Some Comparisons with Bread 
made with Yeast. Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chem- 
istry, vol. 4, pages 20-30, 100-106 (1912). 

Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

Leclerc and Jacobs. Graham Flour. United States Department 
of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 164 (1913). 

Newanetal. Some Experiments on the Relative Digestibihty of 
White and Whole Meal Breads. Journal of Hygiene, vol. 12, 
pages 119-143 (1912)- 

Osborne. The Proteins of the Wheat Kernel. 

Shaw and Gaumnitz. CaHfornia White Wheats. Berkeley, Cali- 
fornia, Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 212 (1911). 

Simmons. Book of Bread. 

Snyder. Studies in Bread and Breadmaking. Bulletins 67, loi, 
126 of the Office of Experiment Stations, United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture. 

Snyder and Woods. Wheat Flour and Bread. United States 
Department of Agriculture, Yearbook for 1903, pages 347-362. 

Van Arsdale. Some Attempts to Standardize Oven Temperatures 
for Cooking Processes. Teachers College Bulletin, Technical 
Series No. 8 (1914). 

Wardall. Relation of Yeast to Flavor in Bread. Journal of Home 
Economics, vol. 2, pages 75-91 (1910). 

Wiley. Cereals and Cereal Products. Part 9 of Bulletin 13 of the 
Bureau of Chemistry, United States Department of Agriculture. 

Woods and Merrill. The Digestibility and Nutritive Vahie of 
Bread. Bulletins 85 and 143 of the Office of Experiment Sta- 
tions, United States Department of Agriculture. 



CHAPTER XIII 

BATTERS AND DOUGHS 

Select one of the following recipes for bread. Weigh each ingredient 
accurately (to the nearest gram). Weigh the finished product and 
calculate its food value and the weight and nutrients of the loo-calorie 
portion. Compare value and cost with those of cooked foods shown 
on pages 205 and 229. 

White Bread 

Quick Process 
Ingredients : 

3 c. flour I tsp. salt 

I c. mUk. or water i tbsp. butter 

I tsp. sugar I yeast cake 

Method : 

Scald the milk or boil the water, add to the salt, sugar, and butter 
and stir untU dissolved. Cool until lukewarm, add yeast softened 
in J c. lukewarm water. Add one half the flour, beat until smooth. 
Cover and set in pan of warm water until doubled in bulk. Add 
the remainder of the flour and mix well. Put on a lightly floured 
board and knead until smooth and elastic. Mold into a loaf, place 
in a weU-greased pan, cover, and let double its bulk. Bake in a hot 
oven 40-60 minutes. 

Slow Process 

As for quick process bread with these exceptions : 
Use only \ yeast cake. Add all the flour and knead once before 
setting to rise. Let rise overnight at room temperature instead of 
in a pan of warm water. In the morning knead, mold into loaves, and 
proceed as above. 



igo LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 



scalded milk 



I c. water 
I tsp. salt 

1 tbsp. butter 

2 tbsp. molasses 
f yeast cake 



Graham Bread 



J c. lukewarm water 

5 c. white flour 

graham or entire wheat flour 
" to knead." The mixture 
should be easily handled 
but not hard and dry 



Nut Bread 
I c. chopped walnuts added after the first rising 



Ingredients : 

5 c. scalded milk 
5 c. water 
I tsp. salt 



Gluten Bread 



I tbsp. butter 

I yeast cake 

i c. lukewarm water 



gluten flour " to knead ' 



Breads without Yeast 

Boston Brown Bread — Steamed 

Ingredients : 

I c. rye meal J tsp. soda 

I c. corn meal i tsp. salt 

I c. graham flour f c. molasses 

2 c. sour milk or i f c. sweet milk 
Method : 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Combine molasses and milk and 
add to first mixture. FiU greased molds | fuU of the mixture. Steam 
3-4 hours. 

Brown Bread I — Baked 



Ingredients : 

f c. molasses 

2 c. sour milk 

3 eggs 

2 tbsp. melted butter 



35 c. graham flour 
15 tsp. baking powder 
2 tsp. baking soda 
i tsp. salt 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



191 



Method : 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add slightly beaten eggs to the 
liquid ingredients and combine mixtures. Bake in a slow oven ij 
hours. The batter should be a little thicker than for butter cakes. 



Ingredients : 

1 c. sugar 

5 c. molasses 

2 c. sour rmlk 
2 tsp. soda 



Brown Bread H 



1 tsp. salt 

2 c. graham flour 
i| c. white flour 
I c. nut meats 



i c. raisms 



Method : 

Let stand 1 hour in bread pan. 
minutes. 



Bake in a moderate oven 40-50 



Graham Bread 

Ingredients : 

2 c. buttermilk 2 c. white flour 

1 c. molasses ij tsp. soda 

2 c. graham flour i tsp. salt 

Method : 

Let stand in bread pan 40 minutes. Bake in a moderate oven 45 
minutes. 



Ingredients : 

2 eggs 
I c. sugar 



Nut Bread I 



4 c. white flour 
75 tsp. baking powder 
2 c. nulk I tsp. salt 

I c. chopped walnut meats 
Method : 

Follow general directions for 
to stand in the pan 20 minutes, 
minutes. 



flour mixtures. Allow mixture 
Bake in a moderate oven 40-50 



192 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Nut Bread U 

Ingredients : 

I c. molasses 2 c. whole wheat flour 

f c. chopped walnuts i c. white flour 

15 c. sour milk ij tsp. soda 

i^ tsp. salt 
Method : 

FoUow general directions for flour mixtures. Bake in bread pan 
in a moderate oven 40-45 minutes. 

Nut Bread ni 

Ingredients : 

I c. molasses i 1;sp. salt 

i^ c. water 2 tsp. baking powder 

4 c. graham flour I tsp. soda 

1 c. white flour 2 c. chopped walnuts 

Method : 

Follow directions for flour mixtures. Bake in bread pans in a 
moderate oven 35-40 minutes. 

Rolls 

Parker House Rolls 

Ingredients : 

2 c. scalded mOk 1 tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. butter i yeast cake dissolved in 

2 tbsp. sugar 5 c. lukewarm water 

flour 
Method : 

Add butter, sugar, and salt to milk ; when lukewarm, add softened 
yeast cake and three cups of flour. Beat, cover, and let rise until 
light ; cut down, and add enough flour to knead (it will take about 
two and one half cups). Let rise again, toss on slightly floured 
board, knead, pat, and roll out to one third inch thickness. Shape 
with a biscuit cutter, first dipped in flour. 

Dip the handle of a case knife in flour, and with it make a crease 
through the middle of each piece ; brush over one half of each piece 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 193 

with melted butter, fold and press edges together. Place in greased 
pan; one inch apart, cover, let rise, and bake -in hot oven 12 to 15 
minutes. As roUs rise they wiU part slightly and if hastened in 
rising are apt to lose their shape. 

Note : Parker House RoUs may be shaped by cutting or tearing off small 
pieces of dough and shaping round like a biscuit ; place in rows 
on floured board, cover and let rise 15 minutes. With the 
handle of large wooden spoon roll through center of each biscuit, 
brush edge of lower halves with melted butter, fold, press lightly, 
place in buttered pan one inch apart, cover, let rise and bake. 

Swedish Rolls 
Method { 

Prepare dough as for Parker House Rolls. When light, roU to 
5 inch thickness. Spread with melted butter, sprinkle with sugar, 
cinnamon, and currants, and roU as closely as possible. Cut into 
slices I inch thick, allow to become very light, glaze, and bake about 
20 minutes. 

Dorcas Rolls 

Ingredients : 

4 small potatoes 2 tbsp. sugar 

■ 2 c. scalded milk 2 tsp. salt 

2 tsp. butter f yeast cake 

J c. lukewarm water 
Method : 

Add hot riced potatoes to the milk, butter, salt, and sugar, softened 
yeast, and flour to make a soft batter. Let rise and add flour enough 
to make a dough. Knead and allow to double in bulk, knead again 
and shape in balls. Place on a greased sheet; let rise and bake 
1 5-20 minutes in a hot oven. 

Bread Sticks 

Ingredients : 

I c. milk I yeast cake softened in 

J c. butter J c. lukewarm water 

i| tbsp. sugar white of an egg 

I tsp. salt 31 c. flour 
o 



194 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Prepare as bread and add the beaten egg after the yeast. When 
ready to shape, cut off small pieces of dough. Shape as small bis- 
cuits and roll on an unfloured board with the hands until 8 inches in 
length, keeping uniform in size and having the ends rounded. Bring 
the fingers close to, but not over, the ends of the sticks. Let rise and 
bake in a hot oven 8-10 minutes. 



Hot Cross Buns 

Ingredients : 

1 c. mUk f tsp. cinnamon 
5 c. sugar 3 c. flour 

2 tbsp. butter i egg 

5 tsp. salt i c. raisins 

5 yeast cake softened in J c. currants 

I c. lukewarm water 

Method : 

Dissolve sugar, salt, and butter in the scalded milk ; when luke- 
warm, add dissolved yeast cake, cinnamon, flour and egg well beaten ; 
when thoroughly mixed, add raisins, cover, and let rise overnight. 
In the morning shape in' form of large biscuits, let rise, brush with 
beaten egg and bake 20 minutes ; cool, and make a cross on top of 
each with confectioners' frosting. 



Ingredients : 


Luncheon Rolls 


1 c. milk 




I tsp. salt 


\ c. sugar 




5 yeast cake 


1 egg 




J c. lukewarm water 


i c. melted butter 


15 c. flour 



Method : ^ 

Prepare dough as for Parker House Rolls, adding the beaten egg 
before the flour. Shape in balls or oblongs, let rise and bake. 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS IQS 

Glaze for Rolls 
Glaze I Glaze II 

1 tsp. sugar yolk i egg 

2 tbsp. hot milk 2 tbsp. cold milk 

Apply before baking. Apply when half baked. 

Score Card 

Bread 

REVISED SCORE CARD Or MISS BEVIER ' 

General appearance . . 20 

Size (S) 

Shape (s) 

Crust (10) 

Color 

Character 

Depth 

Flavor 35 

Odor 
Taste 

Lightness 15 

Texture 20 

Coarse — fine 

Tough — tender 

Moist — dry 

Elastic or not 

Color S 

Grain — Distribution of gas .... S 

100 

1 University of Illinois Bulletin, vol. lo, No. 25. (March, 1913O 



195 laboratory manual of foods and cookery 
Score Card 

Raised Biscuits 

General appearance 20 

Size (S) 

Shape (5) 

Crust (10) 

Color 
Character 
Depth 

Flavor 35 

Taste 
Odor 

Lightness 15 

Crumb 30 

Texture (20) 

Color (S) 

Grain (s) 

100 
Baking Powder Biscuits 
General Rules. 

Sift flour before measuring. Sift again with the baking powder 
and salt. 

Cut in the fat with two knives. Butter, lard, crisco, drippings, or 
chicken fat may be used. Half butter and half lard is a good com- 
bination. 

Add the liquid quickly. Toss and roll lightly on a floured board 
to J inch in thickness. Cut, moisten tops with milk, and bake 12-15 
minutes in a hot oven. 

Wheat Biscuits Graham or Entire Wheat Biscuits 

Ingredients: Ingredients: 

2 c. flour I c. graham flour 

4 tsp. baking powder i c. flour 

5 tsp. salt S tsp. baking powder 
2 tbsp. fat J tsp. salt 

f c. milk 2 tbsp. fat 

f-i c. milk 
2 tbsp. sugar 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 197 

Cheese Biscuits Emergency Biscuit 

Ingredients : Ingredients : 

2 c. flour I c. milk 

4 tsp. baking powder 2j c. flour 

5 tsp. salt 4 tsp. baking powder 
I tbsp. fat 4 tbsp. shortening 

f c. milk ^ tsp. salt 

5 c. grated cheese Mix as for baking powder bis- 

cuits but drop by spoonfuls on a 
greased pan. 

Corn Meal Biscuit Fruit Biscuit 

Same ingredients as Wheat Bis- Shape as Swedisli Rolls. Be- 
cuit, substituting corn meal for fore rolling spread with 
I the flour. After cutting, turn 5 c. raisins 

over as for Parker House Rolls. | tsp. cinnamon 

2 tbsp. sugar 
Bran Biscuit 
Ingredients: 

1 c. bran i egg 

1 c. entire wheat flour i c. milk 

J c. molasses ^ tsp. baking soda 
J tsp. salt 

Score Card 

Baking Powder Biscuits 
General appearance . . . 20 

Size (s) 

Shape (s) 

Crust (10) 

Flavor '. 40 

Lightness 10 

Texture 20 

Coarse — fine 

Tough — tender 

Moist — dry 

Color 5 

Grain 5 

100 



198 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 







FOOD 


VALUES 












Baking Powder Biscuit 


Material 


< 


Si 








§0 

% 



^^1 




$ 


ill 


g = i li 

PhU 


Flour . . . 
Salt . . . 
Baking powder 
Butter . . . 
Milk . . . 


2 c. 

itsp. 

3 tsp. 

iftbsp. 

I c. 


222.4 

8 
202.8 


24.9 
.19 

6.68 


2.2 

i6.S7 
8.12 


166.S 
9-79 


786 
150 

140 


.018 

.006 

•01 5 
.021 


•05s 

.005 
■324 


■393 

1 
.006 

.427 


0031 
.0004 


Total, cooked 1 


12 bis- 
cuits 


313 


31.78 


26.89 


176.31 


1076 


.06 


■384 


.826' 


■003s 


loo-Calorie 


I bis- 




















Portion . 


cuit 


29.08 


2.9 


2.49 


IS 


100 


.005 


-034 


.074' 


.0003 


GfiroDLECAKES AND WAFFLES 


(For General Method see below) 
Griddlecakes Waffles 


Sweet MUk Sweet Milk 


Ingredients: Ingredients: 


I c. flour if c. flour 


' tsp. baking powder 3 tsp. baking powder 

\ tsp. salt i tsp. salt 

I tbsp. melted butter i tbsp. melted butter 


1 egg 2 eggs 
I c. mUk I c. milk 


Sour Milk Sour Milk 


Ingredients: Ingredients: 


2I c. flour ij c. flour 


h tsp. salt i tsp. soda 


2 c. sour milk J tsp. salt 


ij tsp. soda I c. sour milk 












2 eggs 

2 tbsp. melted butter 





' If a phosphate baking powder be used, the phosphorus content of the product 
will of course be much higher than is here shown. 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 199 

Corn Meal Corn Meal 

Ingredients : Ingredients : 

I c. corn meal J c. corn meal 

I c. flour i^ c. boiling water 

4 tsp. baking powder 1 tsp. salt 

1 tsp. salt i| c. milk 

4 tbsp. sugar 2 tbsp. sugar 

2 eggs 2 tbsp. melted butter 
1 qt. scalded milk 2 c. flour 

Cook meal and milk 5 minutes 3 tsp. baking powder 

in a double boiler. 2 eggs 

Cook meal and water 20 
minutes in a double boiler. 

General Method 

General Rides for Mixing. 

Sift flour, and sift with salt, sugar, and baking powder. Separate 
eggs, beat yolks thoroughly, and add to the milk. Add the liquids to 
the dry ingredients. Add the melted butter and fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites of eggs. 

General Rules for Frying. 

Grease irons carefuUy with lard, crisco, or salt pork. Fry mix- 
ture as soon as mixed. Serve immediately with butter and sirup or 
butter and powdered sugar. 

Griddlecakes. 

Drop mixture by spoonfuls on a hot griddle. When pufifed, full 
of bubbles and cooked on edges, turn and brown the other side. 

Waffles. 

Put a tbsp. of mixture in each compartment near center of iron, 
cover, and mixture will spread to fill iron. Turn and brown other side. 

Swedish Timbale Cases 



Ingredients : 




f c. flour 


5 c. milk 


J tsp. salt 


1 egg 
5 tsp. olive oil 



200 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Sift flour and salt. Add slightly beaten egg and the milk. Beat 
until smooth. Add the olive oil. 

To make Timhale Cases 

Plain and fluted irons of various shapes mounted on a long handle 
are used for shaping Swedish Timbale Cases. 

To use : dip the iron into the hot fat, let stand two or three minutes, 
then drain and dip into the batter — held in measuring cup — to 
half an inch of the top of iron, return at once to the fat and hold 
there until the batter is crisp and Hghtly colored, then remove from 
the iron and turn upside down on soft paper to drain. If, on dipping 
the iron into the batter, the batter does not cling to it, the iron has 
not been heated enough. If the fat sizzles considerably and the 
case spreads out and drops from the iron, the mold is too hot. If the 
iron is lowered too far into the batter, the case will spread over the 
top of the iron and be troublesome to remove. The finished cases 
should be very crisp. A small, deep- pan of fat gives best results. 

Fritters 

Ingredients : 

1 c. flour rind i lemon 

2 tbsp. sugar 2 eggs 

\ tsp. salt i c. milk 

Method : 

Same as Muf&ns (page 202). 

Apple Fritters 

Method : 

Pare apples and cut in eighths, or pare, core, and cut in |-inch slices. 
Sprinkle with sugar, lemon juice, cinnamon, or nutmeg. Dip in 
batter and fry in deep fat. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve 
at once. 

Banana Fritters 

Method : 

Remove skins from bananas. Scrape. Cut in halves length^\-ise 
and then cut in 2 pieces crosswise or in i-inch pieces, Sprinkle 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 20I 

with powdered sugar and lemon juice and let stand half an hour. 
Drain. Dip in batter and fry in deep fat. Sprinkle with powdered 
sugar or serve with Grape or Currant Jelly. 

Pineapple Fritters 

Method : 

Drain sirup from canned pineapple. Cut in pieces ; dip in batter 
and fry in deep fat. 

Doughnuts I 

Ingredients : 

2 tsp. butter i c. flour 

i c. sugar J tsp. salt 

1 egg f tsp. baking powder 

2 tbsp. milk 5 tsp. cinnamon 

Doughnuts II 

3 eggs S c. flour 

I c. sugar 2 tsp. cream of tartar 

I c. milk 1 tsp. soda 

I tsp. nutmeg or mace i tsp. salt 

Method : 

Same as for cookies. The dough should be as soft as can be handled. 
RoU to I inch in thickness, cut in rings and fry in hot fat until golden 
brown. Turn often in the fat. Drain, cool, and sugar by shaking in 
a paper bag which contains a smaU amount of powdered sugar. 

Comforts 

Ingredients : 

1 c. milk I c. sugar 

2 eggs 2^ c. flour 

I c. raisins 3 tsp. baking powder 

I tsp. salt 
Method : 

Same as doughnuts. The mixture is a batter. Drop from spoon 
into hot fat ; fry a light brown. Drain and sugar. 



202 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Muffins 
General Rules : 

Sift flour before measuring. Sift again with baking powder, salt, 
and sugar. Beat eggs slightly, add the milk and pour this mixture 
gradually into the dry ingredients. Add the melted butter. Bake 
in greased muffin tin in a moderate oven 20-25 niinutes. 



One-egg Muffins 

Ingredients : 

2 c. flour 2 tbsp. sugar 

4 tsp. baking powder i c. milk 

^ tsp. salt 2 tbsp. melted butter 
I egg 



Wheat Muffins 

Ingredients : 

2 c. flour 1 c. milk 

2 tsp. baking powder 2 tbsp. melted butter 

i tsp. salt 2 eggs 



Entire Wheat or Graham Muffins 

Ingredients : 

I c. graham flour i tbsp. sugar 

I c. flour I egg 

3 tsp. baking powder i c. mUk 

I tsp. salt 2 tbsp. melted butter 



Corn Meal Muffins 

Ingredients : 

I c. flour i tsp. salt 

1 c. corn meal i egg 

2 tbsp. sugar i c. milk 

4 tsp. baking powder 2 tbsp. melted butter 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 203 

Berkshire Muffins 

Ingredients : 

I c. corn meal \ Let stand 2 tbsp. sugar 

f c. scalded milk / 5 minutes | tsp. salt 

1 c. cooked rice i egg 

^ c. flour 3 tsp. baking powder 2 tbsp. melted butter 

Bran Muffins 

Ingredients : 

2 c. bran i tsp. soda 3 tbsp. molasses 
I c. flour I c. butter i| c. sour milk 

Method : 

Rub butter into the dry ingredients. Add the liquids. Bake in 
a hot oven. 

Bran Muffins with Com 

Ingredients : 

I c. corn meal i egg 

I c. white flour 15 c. milk 

1 c. bran 2 tbsp. molasses 

2 tbsp. melted butter i tsp. salt 
1 5 tsp. soda 



> or 23 tsp. baking powder 
3 tsp. cream tartar J 

Rice Muffins 

Ingredients : 

3 c. flour 15 c. milk 

1 c. cooked rice i egg 

2 tbsp. baking powder 3 tbsp. melted butter 

3 tbsp. sugar f tsp. salt 
Combine the rice and milk. 

,. Hominy Sticks 

Ingredients : 

I c. corn meal | c. hot cooked hominy or rice 

f c. flour J c. melted butter 

3 tsp. baking powder i c. milk 

I tsp. salt I egg 

Method : 
Bake in Bread Stick pans. 



204 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Blueberry MufiSns 

Ingredients : 

i c. butter 2 c. flour 

; c. sugar I tsp. baking powder 



I egg 

Method : 

Fold in the blueberries last. 



I c. blueberries 



f c. milk 



Southern Pone 

Ingredients : 

1 c. corn meal 2 eggs 

2 c. milk 3 tbsp. butter 

1 tsp. salt I tsp. baking powder 

Method : 

Scald milk and add gradually the meal, salt, and butter. Cool 
slightly and add eggs, well beaten, and the baking powder. Turn 
into a buttered, earthen dish and bake in a moderate oven 35 min- 
utes. Cut in pie-shaped pieces for serving. 

Southern Spoon Com Bread , 

Ingredients : 

2 c. white corn meal yolks 2 eggs 
2I c. boiling water whites 2 eggs 

15 tbsp. melted butter ij c. buttermilk 

1 5 tsp. salt I tsp. baking soda 

Method : 

Add meal gradually to the boiling water and let cool. Add butter, 
salt, egg yolks slightly beaten, and buttermilk mixed with soda. 
Beat 2 minutes and fold in whites of eggs beaten until stiff. Turn 
into a buttered earthen dish and bake in hot oven 40 minutes. Serve 
at breakfast. Eat with spoon. 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



205 



Score Card 

Muffins 

General Appearance '. ■ 25 

Size (s) 

Shape (lo) 

Crust (10) 

Color 

Character 

Depth 

Flavor 35 

Taste 
Odor 

Texture 30 

Lightness (10) 
Tenderness (10) 
Grain (10) 

Color 10 

100 
FOOD VALUES 

Muffins 



Material 


1 

D 
< 


Si 

as 
^0 


«<5 




I 

« s 

< 

u 


J 

U 


1 

$ 


in 
1^ 


fig 

W !2 S 

£6 


^ a 


Flour . . . 


I c. 


III. 2 


I2.4S 


I. II 


83.28 


393 


.0098 


.027 


.196 


.0015 


Sugar . . . 


I tsp. 


4.8 






4.8 


19 


.0007 








Butter . . 


I tbsp. 


14 


.14 


II.9 




108 


.0106 


.003 


.004 




Milk . . 


ic 


122 


4.02 


4.88 


6.1 


84 


.0112 


.103 


.2S.'i 


.0002 


Baking powder 


2 tsp. 


7-7 










.003 




1 




Egg. 


I 


45-3 


6.07 


4-75 




67 


•03 


.040 


.161 


.0012 


Total, cooked 


6 


242.2 


22.68 


22.64 


94.18 


671 


.0653 


.264 


.6151 


.0029 


lOO-Calorie 






















Portion . . 


I 


3S-08 


3-37 


3.37 


14.04 


100 


.oog 


.036 


.086' 


.0004 



1 See footnote, p. 198. 



2o6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Popovers 

Ingredients : 

I c. flour I c. milk 

i tsp. salt 1-2 eggs 

5 tsp. melted butter (may be omitted) 

Method : 

Mix salt and flour, sift into bowl. Make an indentation in flour 
and drop in the unbeaten egg. Add the milk gradually, stirring in 
widening circles from the middle. If a little lumpy, beat for a minute 
with a Dover egg beater. Turn into ungreased custard cups or hot 
greased gem pans. Bake in a hot oven. Have the oven very hot for 
the first fifteen minutes, then reduce temperature and continue baking '' 
30 to 35 minutes longer. 



Graham Popovers 

Ingredients : 

I c. entire wheat flour | c. mUk 

i c. flour I egg 

i tsp. salt i tsp. melted butter 



Prepare and bake as described under Popovers. 



Cream Puffs I 

Ingredients : 

5 c. butter 4 eggs 

I c. boiling water i c. pastry flour 

Method : 

Put butter and water in saucepan and heat to boiling point, add 
flour all at once and beat vigorously. Remove from fire as soon as 
mixed, and add unbeaten eggs one at a time, beating until thoroughly 
mixed between the addition of eggs. Drop by spoonfuls on a buttered 
sheet 15 inches apart, shaping as nearly circvdar as possible, having 
mixture slightly piled in center. Bake 30 minu'.es in a moderate 
oven. With a sharp knife make in each an incision large enough to 
admit cream filling. 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 207 

Cream Puffs II 

Ingredients : 

I c. butter (scant) | c. flour 

f c. boiling water 2 eggs 

fruit preserve or marmalade 

Put butter in small saucepan and pour on water. When water 
again reaches boihng point add flour aU at once and stir until mixture 
leaves sides of saucepan, cleaving to spoon. Remove from fire and 
add eggs unbeaten, one at a time, beating mixture between addition 
of eggs. Drop by spoonfuls into hot fat and fry until well puffed 
and brown. Drain. Make an opening and fill with jelly, preserve, 
or marmalade. Sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

Eclairs 

Shape cream puff mixture 4I inches long and i inch wide by forcing 
through a pastry bag and tube. Bake 25 minutes in a moderate 
oven. Fill with vanUla, coffee, or chocolate cream filling. Frost 
with chocolate frosting. 

Cream Filling 

Ingredients : 

1 c. sugar 2 c. scalded milk, chocolate, 
J c. flour or coffee 

5 -tsp. salt I tsp. vaniUa or 

2 eggs ^ tsp. lemon juice 

Method : 

Mix dry ingredients in double boiler and pour the liquid in 
gradually. Cook the mixture 10 minutes. Add the eggs slightly 
beaten and cook 2 minutes. Cool and flavor. 

Flodh Pastes 
Macaroni; Spaghetti; Noodles 

Boiled Macaroni or Spaghetti 

Ingredients : 

I c. macaroni or spaghetti broken in pieces 2 qts. boiling water 
I c. cream i tbsp. salt 



2o8 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Cook macaroni or spaghetti in boiling salted water 20 minutes, or 
until soft ; drain in strainer, pour over it cold water to prevent pieces 
from adhering ; add cream, reheat, and season with salt. 

Noodles 

Ingredients : 

I egg i tsp. salt 

2 c. flour 
Method : 

Beat egg slightly, add salt, and flour enough to make a very stiff 
dough ; knead on a slightly floured board, and roU as thin as possible, 
which may be as thin as paper. Cover with towel and set aside for 
20 minutes ; then cut in fancy shapes — using sharp knife or French 
vegetable cutter; or the thin sheet may be rolled like a jelly roU, 
cut in thin slices and pieces unrolled. 

When eggs are expensive, one tablespoon of water may be beaten 
with each egg. 

When noodles are perfectly dry, put them into a glass jar or paste- 
board box. They will keep indefinitely. 

Baked Macaroni with Cheese 

Put a layer of boiled macaroni in buttered baking dish, sprinkle 
with grated cheese ; reheat, pour over white sauce, cover with buttered 
crumbs, and bake until crumbs are brown. 

Macaroni, Italian Style 

Ingredients : 

1 c. macaroni i^ c. scalded milk 
o tbsp. butter | c. grated cheese 

2 tbsp. flour salt and paprika 

I c. finely chopped cold boiled ham 
Method : 

Break macaroni in one-inch pieces and cook in boiling, salted 
water, drain, and reheat in sauce made of butter, flour, and milk to 
which is added cheese. As soon as cheese is melted, season with salt 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



209 



and paprika and turn on to a serving dish. Sprinkle with ham and 
garnish with parsley. 

Macaroni with Cheese and Tomato Sauce 

Ingredients : 

I c. boiled macaroni 2 c. tomato sauce 

I c. grated cheese seasonings 

Method : 

Arrange the macaroni in a buttered baking dish, pour over this the 
tomato sauce and cheese, cover with buttered crumbs and heat in a 
moderate oven until the crumbs are brown. 

Grated cheese may be sprinkled on the top instead of buttered 
crumbs. 



Ingredients : 

I c. scalded cream or milk 
I c. bread crumbs 
I c. cooked spaghetti 
3 eggs 



Spaghetti Loaf 



I c. grated cheese 
I tbsp. onion juice 
I tbsp. chopped parsley 
I tbsp. green pepper 



I tbsp. red pepper or pimento 
Method : 

Scald cream, add the bread crumbs, cooked spaghetti and cheese, 
and eggs slightly beaten. Chop green and red peppers and add 
to first mixture. Pour into a buttered bread pan, place in hot water, 
and bake in a slow oven until firm and slightly browned. Turn on 
a platter and surround with tomato sauce. 





Cookies 






CLASSIFICATION 




Dropped 


Rolled 


Spread 


Peanut 


Sugar 


Brownies 


Boston 


Chocolate 


Fairy gingerbread 


Oatmeal I 


Molasses 


Rolled wafers 


Oatmeal II 


Orange circles 


Chocolate chips 


Sponge drops 


Hermits 





210 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Margarets (fancy meringue pans) Date meringues 

Chocolate wafers Vanilla wafers 

Dropped: 

Thick batters. Drop from tsp. on well-greased sheets i inch apart. 
Sponge Cookies may be put together with marshmallows or boiled 
frosting. 

Rolled: 

Stiff doughs. ChQl before rolling out. Use fancy cutters. Gar- 
nish with raisins, currants, sugar, spice, candied cherries, angelica, 
orange peel. 

Filled cookies. Two cookies may be put together with fruit and 
nut filling before baking. 

Two colors. A sugar cooky cut in fancy shape may be placed on 
a round chocolate cooky before baking. 

Spread: 

Thick baiters. Spread with spatula on well-greased Russian sheets 
or on the back of a dripping pan. Cut in squares or oblongs or cut 
and roll while hot. 

Nut wafers. Sprinkle chopped nuts on mixture before baking. 



General Rules for Mixing Cookies 

Eggs should not be separated ; otherwise proceed as for cake. 
Bake one cooky to see if mixture is of proper consistency. 



Dropped Cookies 

Chocolate Wafers 

Ingredients : 

4 tbsp. butter | c. flour 

8 tbsp. sugar | tsp. salt 

I egg I tsp. vanilla 

I oz. chocolate 5 c. nuts 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



211 



Oatmeal I 



Ingredients : 

4 tbsp. butter 
3 tbsp. lard 
I c. sugar 
I egg 
' s tbsp. milk 
if c. rolled oats 
I c. raisins 



J c. nuts 
i^ c. flour 
5 tsp. salt 
J tsp. soda 
f tsp. cinnamon 
J tsp. cloves 
5 tsp. allspice 



Ingredients : 

I tbsp. butter 
I c. sugar 
5 tsp. salt 



Oatmeal II 

2 c. rolled oats 
2 eggs 

I tsp. baking powder. 
I tsp. vanilla 



Boston Cookies 



Ingredients : 

I c. butter 

1^ c. sugar 

3 eggs 

I tsp. soda 

i| tbsp. cold water 

3| c. flour 



5 tsp. salt 

I tsp. cinnamon 

I c. chopped nuts 

(hickory or English walnuts) 
I c. currants 
^ c. raisins, seeded (or seedless), 

chopped 



Ingredients : 



Margarets 



5 c. powdered sugar 
i c. molasses 



I egg well beaten 

I c. flour 

I c. pecan meats chopped 



Garnish top of each with half a pecan. 



212 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Drop Molasses 


Cookies 


Ingredients : 




I c. molasses 


I c. sour or 


I c. sugar 


f c. butter 


I egg 


I tsp. each 


t tsp. soda 


ginger 


I tsp. baking powder 


cinnamon 


I c. boiling water 


1 tsp. salt 



about 3 c. flour 
Method : 

Follow general directions for flour mixtures. Spread the mixture 
in a well-greased dripping pan and bake in a moderate oven 10-20 
minutes. Cut in squares and remove with spatula to a rack or cloth 
to cool. 

Peanut Cookies 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. butter J c. flour 

I c. sugar I tsp. salt 

I egg 2 tbsp. milk 

T tsp. baking powder ^ tsp. lemon juice 

5 c. chopped nuts 

Meringues 

Ingredients : 

whites 4 eggs ij c. powdered sugar or 

5 tsp. vanilla i c. granulated sugar 

Beat whites until stiff, add gradually the sugar and continue beat- 
ing until mixture wiU hold shape, and add flavoring. Shape with 
spoon or pastry bag and tube on wet board covered with letter paper 
or on greased paper. Bake 30 minutes in a very slow oven. Re- 
move from paper when cold. 

Date Meringues 

Ingredients : 

I lb. dates whites 4 eggs 

5 lb. almonds i c. sugar 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



213 



Method : 

Wash and stone dates. Blanch almonds. Mix with dates and 
chop finely. Beat whites of eggs untU stiff. Add sugar gradually 
and continue beating. Fold in date mixture. Drop by spoonfuls 
on greased paper. Bake in a " moderate " oven until delicately 
brown (recording the temperature). Remove at once from paper. 



Ingredients : 

whites 3 eggs 

I c. powdered sugar 

yolks 2 eggs 



Sponge Drops 



^ c. flour 
I tsp. salt 
I tsp. vanUla 



1 1ngredients : 

3 tbsp. butter 
f c. sugar 
rind i orange 



Rolled Cookies 
Orange Circles 



if c. flour 

salt 

juice 1 orange 



Ingredients : 

I c. butter 
I c. sugar 
I c. molasses 



Ginger Snaps 



4 c. flour 
I tsp. soda 
I tbsp. ginger 



I egg 



Ingredients : 



i c. butter 
I c. boiling water 
I c. molasses 
I tsp. soda 



Molasses 



flour 



I tsp. salt 
I tbsp. ginger 
I tsp. cinnamon 
5 c. sugar 



214 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 


Sugar Cookies 


5 c. butter 


2i c. flour 


I c. sugar 


2 tsp. baking powder 


legg 


5 tsp. salt 


J c. milk 


I tsp. vaniUa 


Ingredients : 


Vanilla Wafers 


1 c. butter and lard in equal 2 c. flour 


proportions 


2 tsp. baking powder 


I c. sugar 


1 tsp. salt 


I egg 


2 tsp. vanilla 


1 c. milk 




Ingredients : 


Thin Cookies 


i c. butter 


2 tsp. baking powder 


I c. sugar 


flour 


I tbsp. milk 


2 eggs 


Ingredients : 


Chocolate Cookies 


5 c. butter 


25 c. flour 


I c. sugar 


2 tsp. baking powder 


I egg 


i tsp. salt 


I c. milk 


1 tsp. vanilla 




2 oz. chocolate 


Ingredients : 


Hermits 


f c. butter 


25 c. flour 


I c. brown sugar 


5 tsp. salt 


2 eggs 


I tsp. cinnamon 


f tsp. soda 


5 tsp. each clove, mace, 


I tbsp.- hot water 


1 c. raisins 





BATTERS AND DOUGHS 




Spread Cookies 


Ingredients : 


Chocolate Chips 


4 c. butter 


4 tbsp. melted chocolate 


I c. sugar 


I tsp. vanilla 


2 eggs 


1 c. flour 


Ingredients : 


Chocolate Brownies 


I c. sugar 


1 tsp. vanilla 


I c. melted butter j c. flour 



215 



1 egg unbeaten 

2 oz. chocolate melted 



5 c. walnut meats cut in pieces 



Method : 

Mix ingredients in order given. Line a seven-inch square with 
paraffin paper. Spread mixture evenly in pan and bake in a slow 
oven (recording the temperature). As soon as taken from oven 
turn from pan, remove paper, and cut in strips. 



Nut Wafers 



Ingredients : 

J c. butter (chicken fat may be 

used) 
I c. sugar 
I egg 
li c. flour 



2 tbsp. milk 

I tsp. salt 

I tsp. baking powder 

I tsp. vanilla 

J c. nut meats (chopped) 



Ingredients : 

I c. butter 

I c. light brown sugar 



Fairy Gingerbread 



I c. milk 
Is c. flour 



2 tsp. gmger 



2l6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Score Cards 

Rolled Cookies 

General appearance 3° 

Uniformity (s) 
Size (s) 

Shape (lo) 

Color (s) 

Surface (s) 

Texture 20 

Lightness (10) 
Color (5) 

Crispness (5) 

Flavor 50 

Taste (25) 

Odor (25) 



Dropped Cookies 

General appearance 30 

Uniformity (5) 
Shape (10) 

Size (s) 

Color (5) 

Surface (5) 

Texture 20 

Lightness (s) 
Tenderness (10) 
Color (s) 

Flavor 50 

100 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



217 



FOOD VALUES 
Molasses Cookies 













H 






j — 


Material 


^ 
M 
S 




si 


a| 


go 


si 


a 


go 1 


So 
gcSg 

SS3§ 


II 
















3 


'^ 






Molasses . 


I c. 


326-3 


8.07 




233-05 


965 


.042 


1. 118 


.965 


.048 


Butter . . 


ic. 


S6.7 


-57 


48.2 




436 


.04 


-013 


.017 




Flour . . 


3C. 


333-6 


37.36 


,S-,S4 


249.87 


1178 


-03 


.082 


.589 


.0047 


Soda . . 


itsp. 


2.1 










.0004 








Salt . . 


2 tsp. 


9.2 










.0006 








Ginger 


I tbsp. 


6 










.003 








Totals, / 
cooked \ 


24 \ 
large _ 


628.4 


46.46 


51-56 


482.92 


2579 


.116 


1. 213 


1.561 


.0527 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


I large 


23.38 


1-75 


1.96 


I8-4S 


100 


.004 


.047 


.062 


.0020 



Hermits 



Butter . . 


*c. 


84.2 


.842 


7I-S7 




647-5 


-0425 


.019 


-025 




Sugar . . 


tc 


137 






137 


548 


.02 








Egg . 


I 


44-5 


5-96 


4-67 




66 


.036 


-039 


.1.58 


.0012 


Milk . 


2 tbsp. 


42.8 


1.41 


1. 71 


2.14 


30 


.0028 


.069 


.09 


.0001 


Flour . 


ifc. 


194.6 


21.79 


1.94 


145-75 


688 


.021 


.048 


■344 


.0027 


Raisins 


ic 


51-3 


1-33 


1-49 


39-03 


175 


.0117 


-035 


.14 


.0017 


Spices . . 




11-3 


















Total, 












• 










cooked 


52 


479 


38-91 


81.39 


323-92 


2IS3 


.1,34 


.210 


■ 757 


.0057 


loo-Calorie 


small 




















Portion 


3 


22.22 


I-S5 


3-77 


15-2 


100 


.0057 


.0105 


.0378 


.0002 



CHAPTER XIV 

CAKE 

Cakes with Butter 
General Rules for Mixing. 

Measure all ingredients, and grease the pans. Mix and sift dry 
ingredients except sugar. Cream butter by continued rubbing against 
the bowl with a wooden spoon. (Any edible fat may be used in place 
of butter.) Add the sugar gradually and continue creaming until 
mixture is smooth. Beat yolk of egg until thick and lemon-colored; 
add to the butter and sugar. Add the flour and milk alternately; 
add vanilla. Beat whites until stiff and dry ; cut and fold into the 
mixture. When fruit or nuts are used, save out a little flour to cover 
them and add to the cake just before the whites of the eggs. Fill 
greased pans half fiill, with sides well filled and a slight depression in 
the center. 

General Rules for Baking. 

Temperature of oven — moderate. 
Time depends on thickness of cake. 

a. cup cakes, 12-15 minutes 
layer cakes, 20-30 minutes 
loaf cakes, 30-40 minutes 

b. quarters of time 

1. begins to rise 

2. continues rising ; begins to brown 

3. finishes browning 

4. shrinks from pan 

218 



CAKE 219 

Care after Baking. 

a. loosen edges with knife 

b. invert on cooler 

c. turn right side up after a few minutes 

Standard Cake 

Ingredients : 

I c. butter i c. mUk 

1 c. sugar 15 c. flour 

2 eggs 2 1 tsp. baking powder 

I tsp. lemon juice or | tsp. vanUla 

Modifications : 

Spice 

I tsp. spice sifted with the flour 

Nut 

1 c. chopped nuts added before folding in the whites 

Chocolate 

2 oz. melted and added after adding the yolks 

Currant 

5 c. added before folding in the whites 

Ribbon 

Double the recipe and bake f as 2 plain layers. To remaining f 
add I tbsp. molasses, i tsp. spice, and f c. raisins. 

White Cake 

Ingredients : 

5 c. butter ' 2 c. flour 

I c. sugar 4 tsp. baking powder 

whites 4 eggs 5 c. milk 

f tsp. almond extract 

Spanish Cake 

Ingredients : 

5 c. butter if c. flour 

1 c. sugar 3 tsp. baking powder 
\ c. milk 15 tsp. cinnamon 

2 eggs i tsp. salt 



220 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Chocolate Cake I 

Ingredients : 

3 oz. chocolate 5 c. sugar J c. milk 
Boil until thickens to a paste and cool. Add to : 

f c. butter 2 c. flour 

1 c. sugar I tsp. baking soda 

2 eggs i tsp. salt 

1 tsp. vanilla 5 c. milk 

Chocolate Cake II 

Ingredients : 

2 oz. chocolate i 

4 tbsp. butter } BoU until it thickens to a paste and cool 
^ c. boiling water J 

Add 

I c. sugar I c. flour 

I egg i tsp. soda 

J c. sour milk 

Lady Baltimore Cake 

Ingredients : 

1 c. butter 3I c. flour 

2 c. sugar 2 tsp. baking powder 
I c. milk whites 6 eggs 

Lady Baltimore Cake Filling 

3 c. sugar I c. water 

Boil to thread stage and pour on stifliy beaten whites of 3 eggs. 
When begins to thicken add i c. chopped raisins, pecans, and figs. 

Pound Cake 

Ingredients : 

I lb. butter , i lb. flour 

I lb. sugar | tsp. mace 

10 eggs 2 tbsp. brandy 



CAKE 221 

Gold Cake 

Ingredients : 

8 yolks of eggs 2| c. flour 

f c. butter i tsp. cream of tartar 

15 c. sugar I tsp. soda 

f c. milk I tbsp. vanilla 

Method : 

Mix soda and flour and sift 3 times. Cream butter and sugar, 

beat yolks until very light, add cream of tartar, then add this to the 

butter and sugar. Mix well and add mUk, floiur, and flavoring. 

This recipe is particularly good for small cakes. 

Date Loaf Cake 

Ingredients : 

I lb. dates (after stoning) i c. flour 

I lb. pecans — shelled 4 eggs 

I c. sugar i| tsp. baking powder 

1 tsp. brandy or j tsp. salt 

, , , , I tsp. vanilla 

Method : 

Wash and stone dates. Wash pecans and add to date pulp. Chop 

slightly. Beat yolks of eggs untU foamy and mix with the sugar 

through the date and nut mixture. Add flavoring and the sifted dry 

ingredients and fold in the beaten whites. Bake as a loaf 50 minutes 

in a moderate oven. 

Orange Loaf Cake 

Ingredients : 

2 c. sugar 4 eggs 

J c. butter 2I c. flour 

I c. orange juice 3 tsp. baking powder 

grated rind of i orange J tsp. salt 

MetJiod : 

Cream the butter, add the sugar and yolks of the eggs. Add to 
this the grated rind of i orange. Mix and sift the dry ingredients 
and add alternately with the liquid to the first mixture. Line a deep 
pan with parafiin paper and allow the cake to bake in moderate oven 
35-40 minutes. 



222 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 

1 c. butter 

2 c. sugar 

4 eggs 

2 tbsp. molasses 

I c. cold boiled coffee 

35 c. flour 

5 tsp. baking powder 



Coffee Cake 



2 tbsp. brandy 



I tsp. cinnamon 
I tsp. cloves 
f tsp. mace 
5 tsp. allspice 
f c. raisins 
f c. currants 
i c. citron 



Apple Sauce Cake 



Ingredients : 
I c. butter 
I c. sugar 
I egg 

1 c. molasses 
I c. apple sauce (unsweetened) 



3 c. flour 

1 tsp. soda 

5 tsp. allspice, cinnamon, 

and clove 
5 grated nutmeg 



c. raisins and currants 



Ingredients : 
I lb. butter 
I lb. brown sugar 
I lb. flour 
3 lb. raisins 
3 lb. currants 
I lb. mixed fruit peel 



Fruit Cake 



juice of 2 lemons 



12 eggs 
5 lb. almonds 
2 tsp. nutmeg 
2 tsp. cloves 

2 tsp. cinnamon 

3 tbsp. vanilla 



Ingredients : 

I c. molasses 
^ c. sugar 

1 c. shortening 

2 tsp. soda 

Method : 



Molasses Layer Cake 



I tsp. cloves 



1 c. hot water 

2 eggs 

2| c. flour 

I tsp. cinnamon 



Follow directions for flour mixtures and bake as a layer cake. 



CAKE 223 

Filling for Molasses Cake 

Ingredients : 

1 c. milk J c. sugar 

z cake chocolate i tbsp. cornstarch 

I tsp. vanilla 
Method : 

Melt the chocolate in a double boUer. Mix the sugar and corn- 
starch and add gradually to the melted chocolate alternately with the 
mUk. Stir the mixture with a wooden spoon constantly in order to 
prevent Imnps and to make a smooth paste. Allow the whole to 
cook in a double boiler 1 5 minutes. Add flavoring, and when custard 
has cooled slightly, use as a filling for the molasses cake. 

Note : Whipped cream may be used as the upper covering. This ca"ke is 
best used as a dessert. 

Canned Raspberry Cake 

Ingredients : 

2 eggs I nutmeg 

I c. brown sugar i tbsp. cinnamon 

i c. butter i tbsp. sour milk 

I c. canned strawberries or rasp- i tsp. soda 

berries 1 c. flour 

Hot Water Ginger Cake 

Ingredients : 

I c. molasses i tsp. soda 

I c. boiling water ij tsp. ginger 

2j c. flour I tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. melted butter 

Sweet or Sour Milk Ginger Cake 

Ingredients : 

i c. butter if c. flour 

I c. sugar I tsp. ginger 

I c. molasses 5 tsp. cinnamon 

I egg i tsp. soda 

5 c. milk — sour or sweet 



224 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Ginger Cup Cakes 

Ingredients : 

i c. butter i tsp. ginger 

I c. sugar I tsp. cloves 

1 c. molasses i c. boiling water 

2 eggs 25 c. flour 

1 tsp. cinnamon 2 tsp. soda 

5 tsp. salt 

Roxbury Cakes 

Ingredients: 

J c. butter 15 c. floiu- 

5 c. sugar I tsp. soda or 

5 c. molasses 2 tsp. baking powder 

2 eggs I tsp. cloves 

5 c. milk — sour or sweet j tsp. nutmeg 

5 c. nuts 5 c. raisins or dates 

Cakes without Butter 

General Rules for Mixing. 

Sift flour and sugar several times before measuring each. Beat 
yolks until lemon-colored, add sugar gradually and flavoring. Partly 
fold in stiffly beaten whites. Fold in the flour sifted with the salt. 
The folding should be carefully done so that the mixture wiU not 
become stiff. 

General Rules for Baking. 

Use a tube cake pan — unbuffered. Slow oven — 40-60 minutes. 
Oven door should not be opened during first 20 minutes. After 
baking, invert pan on cake cooler and do not remove cake until cold. 

Sponge Cakes 

Yellow Sponge Cake 

Ingredients : 

yolks of 6 eggs grated rind | lemon 

I c. sugar whites of 6 eggs 

I tbsp. lemon juice i c. flour 
; tsp. salt 



CAKE 225 

Boiled Sponge Cake 

Ingredients : 

I c. sugar 5 c. water 

I c. flour 6 eggs 

Boil sugar and water to thread stage. Add to 6 whites beaten stiff, 
and beat until cold. Fold in flour sifted with i tsp. salt and a few 
grains of cream of tartar. Fold in the well-beaten yolks. 



Sponge Drops 

Ingredients : 

3 whites eggs . ^ c. flour 

2 yoUis eggs i tsp. salt 

J c. powdered sugar j tsp. vaniUa 

Drop from teaspoon on buttered sheets. 



Sponge Cakes with Baking Powder 

When eggs are expensive, the number may be decreased, and bak- 
ing powder used to help jaise the mixture. 



Hot Water Sponge Cake 

yolks of 3 eggs 2 tsp. baking powder 

I c. sugar whites 3 eggs 

I c. flour grated rind | orange 

juice of orange and enough hot water to make | cup 



Sponge Cake 

Ingredients : 

3 eggs I tsp. baking powder 

I c. sugar J c. cold water 

I c. flour I tsp. vanilla 
J tsp. salt 



226 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Jelly Roll 

Ingredients : 

I c. sugar I c. flour 

5 eggs I tsp. baking powder 

I tsp. vanilla i tsp. salt 

Line oblong pan with greased paper. When baked, remove paper, 
spread with jelly and roll. 

White Sponge Cake 

Ingredients : 

whites of 8 eggs i tsp. vanilla 

I tsp. cream tartar j tsp. salt 

I c. sugar, fine granulated f c. flour 

Mocha Cakes 
Bake sponge cake mixture in a shallow pan. See below. 

Sponge Cake for Mocha Cakes 

Ingredients : 

yolks 2 eggs grated rind I lemon 

^ c. sugar whites 2 eggs 

f tbsp. lemon juice ^ c. flour 

salt 
Method : 

Beat yolks until creamy ; add sugar, beat well, lemon juice. Fold 
in stiffly beaten whites ; when partially folded in, fold in flour. Bake 
in unbuttered pan in a slow oven. 

Cut cake in small circles, — put together in 3 layers with thin 
coating of frosting ; cover sides with frosting and roll in fresh coco- 
nut or chopped nuts. Ornament top with frosting. 

Frosting for Mocha Cakes 

Ingredients : 

I c. butter i c. powdered sugar 

Method : 

Cream the butter and add the sugar. Add i c. cream filling 
(cooled). Add 5 tsp. vanilla, ij oz. melted chocolate. 



CAKE 227 

Genoese Cakes 

Bake jelly roll mixture in a shallow pan. Have mixture when 
baked about f inch thick. Cut the cake into fancy shapes, dip each 
in glaze, allow this to cool and then redip the cakes in soft fondant, 
colored and flavored. These may be decorated with the following: 

cherries citron 

nuts angelica 

candied violet leaves candied rose leaves 

Glaze 

Ingredients : 

5 c. sugar ^ c. water 

Method : 

Put the sugar and water in a saucepan and stir the mixture until 
the sugar is dissolved. Allow the sirup to cook until a hard ball 
forms in cold water ; when the sirup has cooled slightly, use it to 
glaze Genoese cakes. 

Score Cards 

Loaf Cake 
General appearance 25 



Size 


(5) 


Shape 


(10) 


Color 


(S) 


Surface 


(S) 


Flavor . 




Taste 


(2S) 


Odor 


(25) 


Texture and interior appearance 


Lightness 


(S) 


Tenderness 


(S) 


Elasticity 


(5) 


Grain 


(S) 


Color 


(S) 



5° 



25 



228 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Layer Cake 

General appearance IS 

Size (s) 

Shape (s) 

Surface (5) 

Layers 35 

Thickness (10) 
Flavor (15) 

Texture (10) 

Filling 30 

Consistency (10) 
Suitabihty (5) 
Flavor (s) 

Thickness (s) 
Color (2) 

Surface (3) 

Combined flavor 20 

100 

Sponge Cake 

General appearance 23 

Color (s) 

Surface (10) 

Shape (10) 

Flavor ... 50 

Taste (40) 

Odor (10) 

Texture and interior appearance 25 

Lightness (5) 
Tenderness (5) 
Elasticity (5) 
Grain (5) 
Color (s) 



CAKE 



229 



FOOD VALUES 
Hot Water Gingerbread 



Materiai 


1 


ii 
1^ 


is 




I 

go 

< 


^6 





$ 




Sua 


i-O 


Molasses . 


I c. 


332 


7-Q7 




230.08 


Q.W 


•0375 


1. 14 


.9 


.049 


Water . 


*c. 


114.6 


















Flour 


2ic. 


250.2 


28.02 


2.50 


187.4 


883 


,028 


.06 


•44 


.003 


Soda 


I tsp. 


4.3 










.001 








Ginger 


li tsp. 


4 


' 








.0015 








Salt . . 


i tsp. 


2.25 


















Melted 






















butter . 


4 tbsp. 


78 


7S 


66.52 




600 


.06 


.017 


.023 




Total, 
cooked 


Loaf 

10X6X2 

inches 


674 


36.77 


69.12 


417.48 


2436 


.1281 


1. 217 


1.363 


.052 


loo-Cal- 


2iXli 




















orie Por-< 


X2 




















tion 


inches 


27.63 


1-51 


2.9 


17.12 


100 


.005 


■°5i 


•OSS 


.002 



Chocolate Cake 



Sugar . . 


I c. 


205.S 






205.5 


822 


.02 








Butter . 


|c. 


59-7 


.6 


50-75 




4S9 


.04 


.013 


.or83 




Eggs . . 


2 


95-6 


I2.gi 


10.04 




141 


.06 


.064 


.3384 


.0026 


Flour . . 


i*c. 


148.3 


16.61 


1.48 


rii.o8 


523 


.01 


.036 


.262 


.002 


Milk 


fc. 


161.9 


S.,S4 


6.48 


8.10 


ir2 


.01 


■ 257 


•339 


.0003 


Chocolate 


2 oz. 


37-9 


4.89 


18,46 


11.48 


231 


.04 


.o46 


-324 




Soda 


itsp. 


2.2 










.0005 








Total, 1 
cooked I 


Loaf 

9X5X2 

inches 


624 


40.25 


87.21 


336.16 


2289 


.21 


.416 


1. 2817 


.0049 


lOO-Cal- f 






















orie Por-< 


iXiJXs 


26.83 


1-73 


3-75 


14-45 


100 


.or 


.016 


.0512 


.ooor 


tion [ 


inches 





















230 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



FOOD VALUES 
Hot Water Sponge Cake 



Materiai. 


< 


g 


ii 


'-0 


k 

u 


'1 


s 

u 
S 




3^« 




ii 

~5 


Eggs . . 


2 


90 


12.06 


9-45 




132 


.058 


.079 


.264 


.0013 


Sugar . 


I C. 


205-S 






205-5 


822 


.0271 








Flour 


I C. 


112. 2 


12-45 


I. II 


83.28 


392 


.0117 


.027 


.196 


.0015 


Baking 






















powder . 
Lemon juice 


i^ tsp. 
2 tbsp. 


9 
28.2 






2.76 


II 


.004 
.016 


.009 


.006 




Water . . 


f c. 




















Total, 
cooked 


1 2 small 
cakes 


360.6 


24-51 


10.56 


291-54 


1357 


.1168 


-115 


.466 


.0028 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion . 


i: 


26.32 


1.78 


■77 


21.28 


TOO 


.0685 


.008 


.032 


.0001 



Cooked Frostings 



Ingredients : 

I c. sugar 
^ c. water 
I tsp. cream of tartar 



White Mountain 



I egg white 

I tsp. lemon juice 

I tsp. vanilla 



Method : 

Boil first three ingredients to thread stage. Pour slowly on beaten 
white, add flavoring, and heat tmtil thick enough to spread. 



Chocolate I 

2-4 oz. chocolate melted. 

Add to White Mountain Frosting before spreading on cake. 



CAKE 231 

Chocolate II 

4 oz. chocolate melted with a little milk. Cook until thickens, 
add 1 c. sugar. Remove from fire, add i tbsp. butter, i tsp. vanilla. 
Beat until smooth. 



Fudge Frosting 

Ingredients : 

I c. sugar J c. mUk 

2 oz. chocolate 
Method: 

Boil to soft ball stage. Add 2 tbsp. butter and i tsp. vanilla. Cool. 
Beat untU thick enough to spread. 



Maple 

I lb. maple sugar J c. boiling water 

I egg white 

Break or grate sugar. Method same as White Mountain. 



Caramel 

I c. brown sugar f c. granulated sugar 

f c. cream i tbsp. butter 

Prepare as Fudge Frosting. 



Uncooked Feostings 

Confectioners' Frosting 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. water, milk, fresh fruit confectioners' sugar 

juice or cream flavoring 

Method : 

To the liquid add enough sifted sugar to make of right consistency 
to spread, then add flavoring. 



232 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

/ 

Chocolate Frosting 

Ingredien/s : 

2 oz. chocolate 3 tbsp. hot water 

1 tbsp. butter confectioners' sugar 

I tsp. vanilla 
Method : 

Melt chocolate over boihng water, add butter and hot water. 
Cool, and add sugar to make of right consistency to spread. Flavor 
with vanilla. 

Cocoa Fros'ing 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. cocoa I tbsp. butter 
boiling water to make paste confectioners' sugar 

I tsp. vanilla 

Cofiee Frosting 

Ingredients : 

2 tsp. cocoa I tbsp. butter 

confectioners' sugar 2 tbsp. strong coffee 

Method : 

Melt butter in the hot cofiee. Add cocoa and sugar until of right 
consistency to spread. 

Mocha Frosting 

Ingredients : 

5 c. butter i tbsp. breakfast cocoa 

ij c. confectioners' sugar coffee infusion 

Method : 

Cream butter, and add sugar gradually, continuing the beating; 
then add cocoa and coffee infusion drop by drop until of right con- 
sistency to spread. 

Orange Frosting 

Ingredients : 

■4 tbsp. orange juice i tsp. lemon juice' 

rind i orange 



Cake 



^Zi 



Method : 

Soak rind in the juice J hour, strain. Add 2 egg yolks, and con- 
fectioners' sugar to spread. 



Cake Fillings 



Ingredients : 



Lemon 



Orange 



I c. sugar 
25 tbsp. flour 
rind of 2 lemons 
J c. lemon juice 
I egg 
I tsp. butter 



1 tsp. butter 



t c. sugar 
2I tbsp. floiir 
rind f orange 
J c. orange juice 
I tbsp. lemon juice 
I egg 



Method : 

Mix sugar and flour, add fruit juice and rind. Cook 20 minutes in 
double boiler. Add egg and cook a little longer, stirring constantly. 
Add butter and cool. 



Ingredients : 



Cream 



7 tbsp. sugar 

2f tbsp. flour 

salt 

I c. milk — scalded 

1 egg 

5 tsp. vanilla 



Chocolate 



5 c. sugar 

3 tbsp. flour 

1 oz. chocolate 

I c. milk — scalded 

t egg yolk 

I tsp. vanilla 



Method : 

Mix dry ingredients with a little of the cold milk. Add to the 
scalded milk, and cook 20 minutes in double boiler. Add egg and 
cook a little longer. Add the vaniUa. Cool. 

Chocolate. Shave the chocolate and add i tbsp. hot water to it. 
Heat it in double boiler until smooth. Pour the cooked flour mix- 
ture over this. Then add the egg and vanilla. 



234 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Ingredients : 

J lb. chopped figs i c. boiling water 

i c. sugar i tbsp. lemon juice 

Method : 

Mix aU together, and cook in a double boOer until thick enough 
to spread. 

Fruit 
Add chopped fruit and nuts to White Mountain Frosting. 





CHAPTER XV 






PASTRY 






Plain Paste I 




I c. flour 
i c. lard 




J tsp. salt 
ice water 


15 c. flour 
J c. butter 


Plain Paste II 
ice water 


i c. lard 
§ tsp. salt 



Flour. — Pastry or bread flour may be used. 

Shortening. — Butter, lard, crisco, oleomargarine, drippings, 
chicken fat, or refined oUs or combinations of two or more may be 
used. 

General Rides jor Plain Paste. 

I. Sift flour, measure and sift flour and salt. Cut in shortening 
with 2 knives. Add water to make a stiff dough. Chill. RoU out 
on floured board. 

II. Wash butter in cold water to remove salt and buttermilk. 
Chill butter and lard. Sift flour and salt and cut in shortening. 
Roll lightly into an oblong piece ; roll from center forward and from 
center backward. Fold crosswise in thirds. Turn halfway around, 
roll and fold a second time. 



Puff Paste 

Ingredients : 

I lb. bread flour i lb. butter 

ice water 

235 



236 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

The liquid may be cream, water, or egg whites. Weigh the butter, 
place in ice water, and wash to remove salt and buttermilk. Weigh 
the flour and add water to make a stiff dough, wrap in a towel and 
put on ice. (Placing between 2 pans of chopped ice is a convenient 
way of chiUing.) Dredge board with flour, also the rolling pin. 
Roll the dough into a rectangle almost as long as the board. Place 
the butter in center, fold the paste one side over and press edges 
together. Fold in thirds — lower part over, upper part under. 
Press edges, pound lightly with rolling pin to a rectangle and fold 
in thirds — both over. Turn the mixture halfway around, pound, 
roH and fold. Repeat twice unless the butter shows through the 
flour mixture, and chUl. Repeat three times, and the last time fold 
from ends to center and double, making 4 layers. Chill. Use this 
paste for tarts, patties, or crusts. 

Patties 

Cut off a piece of dough, turn halfway round, pound to i inch in 
thickness. Cut tops, pound a little thinner and cut first layers. 
Cut five small centers from the tops. Put together, place on sheet 
and chiU 15 minutes. 



21 min. in hot oven 
7 min. rise 
7 min. brown 
7 min. finish baking at reduced temperature 

Cheese Straws 

Roll out paste, sprinkle with grated cheese and cayenne. Fold, 
turn, and pound 3 times. ChiU. Cut in strips. 

Banbury Tarts 

Cut paste iX 5^ inches. Place 5 tsp. of Banbury Filling on one 
side, fold one. side over and press edges. Prick top with fork. 



PASTRY 



237 



Banbury Filling 



I c. sugar 
I egg 



Ingredients : 

I lemon — boiled 1 5 minutes 
I c. raisins 
Method : 

Remove seeds from lemon, chop raisins and lemon, and add sugar 
and egg. 

Classefication or Pies 

One Crust — Unbaked, 
Lattice top 
Chocolate Custard Cherry 

Coconut Pumpkin Cranberry 

Cream Sour cream Mock cherry 

Lemon 



One Crust — Baked One Crust — Unbaked 



Two Crusts 


Turnover 


Tarts 


Apple 


Apple 


JeUy 


Mince 


Fruit mixtures 


Banbury 

Cream 

Fruit mixtures 



One Crust — Baked 

Invert pie tin. Bake crust on it ; turn right side up as soon as 
baked. 





Cream 


Coconut 


Chocolate 


Lemon 




Sugar . 


. I c. 


I c. 


I c. 


I c. 




Flour . 


. 4 tbsp. 


2 tbsp. 


3 tbsp. 


5 tbsp. 




Salt . . 


. itsp. 


itsp. 


i tsp. 


itsp. 




Milk . . 


. 2 c. 


lie 


2 c. 


I c. boiling 


water 


Egg yolks 


3 


2 


3 


2 




Butter . 


. I tsp. 


I tsp. 




I tbsp. 




Vanilla . 


. I tsp. 


I tbsp. 


I tbsp. 


juice and 


rind 






I c. coconut 


2 oz. chocolate 
or J c. cocoa 


I lemon 








Meringue 






Ingredients 












2 wl 


lites of eggs 




4 tbsp. granulated sugar 





238 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Add sugar slowly to stiffly beaten whites and continue beating. 
Bake in slow oven. 

One Crust — Unbaked 

Line a very deep tin with paste, allowing | inch on edge of plate 
for a frill. Turn crust under and make a frill with thumb and fore- 
fingers. 

To prevent soggy crust : 

Brush paste with white of egg 
Dredge paste with flour 



Custard 

Ingredients : 

2 eggs 5 tsp. salt 

3 tbsp. sugar i| c. mUk 

I tsp. nutmeg 



Pumpkin 

Ingredients : 

i| c. pumpkin i tsp. ginger 
I c. brown sugar j tsp. salt 
I tsp. ciimamon 2 eggs 
I c. milk 2 tbsp. molasses 



Ingredients : 

3 yolks of eggs 

I c. sugar 

I c. sour cream 



Sour Cream 



tsp. salt 



I c. chopped raisins 
I tsp. cinnamon 
5 tsp. cloves 



One Crust — Unbaked — Lattice Top 

Line deep tin with paste ; cut ofi close to edge. Cover top of pie 
with strips of paste. 



Ingredients : 

I c. cranberries 
I c. raisins 



Mock Cherry 



J c. cold water 



1 c. sugar 

2 tbsp. flour 



PASTRY 239 

Method : 

Cut cranberries in halves. Wash to remove seeds. Chop with 
raisins and add remaining ingredients. 

Two Crusts 

Line tin with plain paste. Fill and cover with a paste, which has 
been pricked to allow the escape of steam. Insert a narrow strip cf 
paste between lining and top. Moisten with cold water and press 
edges firmly. Trim and ornament as desired. 

Note : A strip of cloth may be wrapped around the pie to prevent escape 
of juice. A cornucopia of paper inserted in the center allows 
the escape of juice. 





Apple Pie 




tart apples 




spice 


sugar 




butter 



water 

Mince Meat 

Ingredients : 

2 lbs. fresh beef, stewed and put through a meat grinder 

1 lb. beef suet, finely chopped 
5 lbs. chopped apples 

2 lbs. seeded raisins 

1 lb. sultana raisins 
? lbs. currants 

f lb. citron, fimely cut 

2 tbsp. cinnamon 

1 tbsp. nutmeg 

2 tbsp. mace 
I tbsp. cloves 

25 lbs. brown sugar 

I tbsp. salt 

5 lb. candied orange peel 

i lb. candied lemon peel 

I qt. boiled cider 

water 



240 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Mix all ingredients except the raisins with water to cover and allow 
the mixture to cook 6 hours slowly, adding water as necessary to 
prevent burning. When ready to use, add the raisins. Spread in a 
pastry shell, dot over with small pieces of butter, and cover with 
upper crust. 

Green Tomato Mince Meat ' 

Ingrsdients : 

2 c. chopped green tomato 2 c. brown sugar 

2 c. chopped sweet apples | c. molasses 

I c. cracker crumbs | c. vinegar 

J c. butter i c. raisins 

I tbsp. each : i c. currants 

cinnamon mace 

cloves nutmeg 

Method : 

Mix aU the ingredients except the butter and allow the mixture to 
cook slowly until thick. Add the butter just before removing from 
the fire. This mixture is sufficient for three pies. 



Turnovers 

Cut paste in squares and fold over the filling as triangles or in 
circles as half circles. 



Tarts 

Cover back of tin cups with paste, prick, bake, remove from crust 
and fill. Cut 2 circles of paste. Remove center of one and put the 
two circles together with cold water. Bake and place a small amount 
of filling in each. 

1 Students who grow their own tomatoes will find this an excellent way to utilize 
tomatoes which are still green at frost. 



PASTRY 241 

Score Cards 

Two-crust Pie 

General appearance 20 

Form _ (5) 

Attractiveness (s) 

Design (s) 

Workmanship (s) 

Pastry 45 

Upper crust 
Flakiness (s) 

Tenderness (s) 

Surface (s) 

PalatabUity (5) 

Bake (10) 

Under crust 
Color (S) 

Bake (S) 

Rim (S) 

Fitting 30 

Flavor (20) 

Consistency (5) 

Thoroughness of cooking (5) 

Ease of serving S 

100 
One-crust Pie 

General appearance 20 

Color (10) 

Shape (10) 

Pastry 35 

Color (S) 

Tenderness (s) 

Surface (s) 

PalatabUity (10) 

Bake (10) 

Filling 40 

Consistency (s) 

Flavor (30) 

Smoothness (S) 

Fmsb of serving ,,.,,, 5 

100 

£ 



242 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

One-crust Pie and Meringue 

General appearance 20 

Workmanship (10) 

Attractiveness (10) 
Pastry 30 

Color (5) 

Flakiness (5) 

Tenderness (5) 

Surface (5) 

Palatability (s) 

Condition (5) 
Filling 30 

Consistency (5) 

Smoothness (5) 

Flavor (20) 
Meringue 15 

Color (3) 

Surface (3) 

Lightness (3) 

Tenderness (3) 

Bake (3) 

Ease of serving 5 

100 



CHAPTER XVI 

FLOUR MIXTURES USING SOUR MILK, BUTTERMILK, 
SOUR CREAM 

Brown Bread 

Ingredients : 

2 c. graham flour i c. sour milk or butter- 

I c. corn meal milk 

I c. sweet milk 5 c. molasses 

I tsp. soda I tsp. salt 

Method : 

Mix the graham flour wefl with the corn meal, sifting the soda and 
salt with the corn meal. Add the liquid ingredients and stir 
thoroughly. Bake in a weU-greased covered pan or mold in a 
moderate oven two hours. 

Indian Bread 



Ingredients : 










2 c. corn meal 




2 c. sour milk 






i| c. flour 




I c. molasses 






2 tsp. soda 




1 tsp. salt 






Method : 










Sift soda, salt, and flour. 


Add the 


i corn meal, mix 


well 


and 


add the liquid ingredients. Turn into a 


buttered mold and steam 3 


hours. 










Steamed 


Graham Bread 






Ingredients : 










I egg 




1 c. sour milk 






I c. graham flour 




i c. molasses 






I c. wheat flour 




I tsp. soda 






1 


tsp. salt 
243 









244 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Sift the soda, salt, and wheat flour. Mix well with the graham 
flour, add the liquid ingredients and lastly the egg, slightly beaten. 
Turn into a well-greased mold and steam two hours. 

Corn Meal Gems 

Ingredients : 

I c. sweet milk 5 c. molasses 

3 tbsp. sour cream i tsp. soda 

I c. corn meal i c. wheat flour 

I tsp. salt 
Method : 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Add the liquids and mix 
thoroughly. Turn into greased mufiin tins, and bake in a moderate 
oven 12 minutes. 

Graham Pudding 

Ingredients : 

1 c. buttermilk or i c. molasses 
sour milk i c. raisins 

2 c. graham flour i tsp. soda 
I tsp. cinnamon i tsp. salt 

Method : 

Mix the cinnamon, salt, and soda well with the graham flour. Add 
the liquid ingredients and the raisins. Mix thoroughly and turn 
into a buttered mold and allow it to steam three hours, or turn into 
individual molds and steam 45 minutes. 

Plum Pudding 

Ingredients : 

3 c. chopped suet i c. sour milk 
1 c. molasses 2 eggs 

1 c. sugar I tsp. nutmeg 

1 lb. raisins i tbsp. cinnamon 

I lb. currants j tsp. ginger 

I lb. citron i tsp. cloves 

I tsp. soda i tsp. mace 

I c. bread crumbs 



FLOUR MIXTURES USING SOUR MILK 



245 



Method : 

Wash and prepare the currants and raisins. Put through the 
meat grinder with the citron. Mix the finely chopped suet with the 
bread crumbs and thoroughly mix the spices, salt, and soda all 
through. Add this to the iirst mixture, add the molasses and sour 
milk and lastly the eggs slightly beaten. Turn into buttered molds 
and steam five hours. 

Dried Apple Cake 

Ingredients : 

I c. dried apples (soaked over- i egg 

night) 3I c. flour 

I c. molasses i tsp. soda 

5 c. butter i c. sugar 

I c. buttermilk i tsp. cloves 

I tsp. cinnamon i tsp. nutmeg 

Method : 

Cook the molasses and dried apples until thick. Allow the mix- 
ture to cool. Cream the butter, add the sugar and egg slightly 
beaten. Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Add the milk and dry 
ingredients alternately to the egg mixture. Lastly add the molasses 
and apple. Mix thoroughly. Turn into a prepared pan and bake 
30 minutes in a moderate oven. 



Ingrediefits : 

1 c. sugar 

4 tbsp. butter 

2 c. flour 
I tsp. salt 



Fruit Cake without Eggs 



I c. sour milk 
I c. raisins 
I tsp. soda 
I tsp. cinnamon 



I tsp. cloves 
Method : 

Cream the butter, add the sugar and stir until the mixture is light- 
colored. Mix and sift the dry ingredients and add alternately to 
the first mixture. Add the raisins and bake in a moderate oven 30 
minutes. 



246 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Spice Cake I 

Ingredients : 

I c. butter 5 c. sour milk 

I c. sugar 2 c. flour 

I c. molasses i tsp. soda 

1 egg 5 tsp. cloves 

5 c. raisins | tsp. cinnamon 

Method : 

Follow general directions for cake mixtures. Bake in very moder- 
ate oven 45 minutes. 

Spice Cake II 

Ingredients : 

f c. butter 1 c. buttermilk 

2 c. brown sugar 2 tsp. soda 

3 eggs 2 c. flour 

I tsp. cinnamon' i tsp. cloves 

1 tsp. allspice i tsp. nutmeg 
Method : 

Follow general directions for cake mixtiire. Bake as a loaf cake 
40 minutes, or as a layer cake 30 minutes. 

Sugar Cookies 

Ingredients : 

2 c. sugar I c. sour cream 
2 eggs 2 tsp. soda 

I c. butter i tsp. cream of tartar 

flour to make a stiiT dough 
Method : 

FoUow general directions for cooky mixtures. 

Molasses Cookies I 

Ingredients : 

I egg I c. shortening 

1 c. sugar I c. buttermilk 

2 c. molasses i tsp. soda 

I tsp. ginger i tsp. cinnamon 

flour to make a stiff dough 

Method : 

Follow general directions for cooky mixtures. 



FLOUR MIXTURES USING SOUR MILK 247 

Molasses Cookies 11 

Ingredients : 

I c. brown sugar i c. buttermilk 

I c. molasses i c. lard 

I tsp. salt I tsp. ginger 

i| tsp. soda flour to make a soft dough 

Soft Gingerbread 

Ingredients : 

5 c. sugar I c. buttermilk 

1 c. molasses i tsp. ginger 
J c. butter i tsp. cloves 

2 tsp. soda 2I c. flour 

2 eggs I tsp. cinnamon 

Method : 

FoUow general rules for combining cake mixtures. Bake in a 
shallow pan 30 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Fried Cakes 

Ingredients : 

1 c. sugar I c. sour cream 

2 eggs 5 c. buttermilk 

I tsp. soda 2 tsp. baking powder 

I tsp. salt nutmeg 

flour to make a soft dough 

Doughnuts I 

Ingredients: 

1 c. sugar I tbsp. butter 

2 eggs I c. sour milk 
1 tsp. soda nutmeg 

flour to make a soft dough 

Doughnuts II 

Ingredients : 

I c. sugar 3 tbsp. butter 

I c. thick sour milk i tsp. soda 

(beaten to a froth) i tsp. nutmeg 

flour to make a soft dough 5 tsp. salt 



CHAPTER XVII 

SALADS AND SANDWICHES 

The American salad is a combination of meat, fish, poultry, fruit, or 
vegetables served on salad greens with a dressing. The oil of the 
dressing usually gives a high fuel value. If made \\-ith meat, fish, or 
poultry, the protein content may also be high ; if fruits and vegetables 
are used, the salad may be chiefly significant for the ash constituents 
which these furnish. 



I. Salad greens are: 




lettuce 


beet tops 


chicory 


dandelions 


romaine 


spinach 


endive 


celery 


escarole 


cabbage 


water cress 


chives 


2. Foundation salads are : 




a. Meat 




chicken 


veal 


lamb 


sweetbread 


6. Fish 




tuna 


salmon 


white fish 


c. Shellfish 




lobster 


crab 


shrimp 


scallops 


d. Eggs 





248 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



249 



e. 


Vegetables 








potatoes 




carrots 




beets 




onions 




peas 




beans 




asparagus 




cucumbers 




radishes 


cauliflower 


celery 


/• 


Fruits 








cherries 




oranges 




lemon 




grapefruit 




apples 




peaches 




pears 




apricots 




green peppers 




green tomatoes 




white grapes 


bananas 


pineapple 


g- 


Miscellaneous 








figs 




dates 




nuts 


cheese 


gelatin 


3. Salad dressings are : 








French 




mayonnaise 




boiled 


mixtures 


cream 


OTE : ' 


The above salad dressings have many variations as to color, tas 




and consistency, 


but the foundation is one of the five given. 


4. Variations in salad dressings : 




a. 


French dressing ' 


plus 






horseradish 




Roquefort cheese 




pimento 




chili sauce 




chives 




hard-cooked egg, minced 




beets, finely chopped 


green pepper 




parsley 




celery, finely chopped 




whipped cream 


pecans 




hazelnuts 




English walnuts 



1 Described in the next chapter. 



250 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



fruit juice in place of vinegar 
raspberry vinegar, or tarra- 
gon, used in place of 
cider vinegar 
Mayonnaise dressing ' 
beaten white of egg 
fruit juice in place of vinegar 
green pepper, chopped 

olives 
raspberry vinegar 



water cress 
pepper grass 



whipped cream 

chUi sauce 

pimento minced (puree) 

chives 

tabasco sauce 

sardines reduced to a paste 



c. Boiled dressings 

any variations as for mayonnaise 

Salads: when served: 

1. Formal meal 

green salad with French dressing or modification 

2. Informal meal 

a. any salad, provided the same ingredients are not repeated 

in another part of the meal 

b. any dressing 

3. Luncheon 

a. Formal 

green with French dressing 

fruit with French or mayonnaise dressing or modification 

chicken, if served in place of other meat in meal 

b. Informal 

any salad or dressing — provided ingredients are not re- 
peated in other courses of meal 

4. Suppers 

meat 

fish 

shellfish 

fruit 

miscellaneous 

' Described in the next chapter. 



used with any dressing or combination 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



251 



Light refreshments 
meat 
shellfish 
fruit 

asparagus 
miscellaneous 



• used with any dressing or combination 



The attractive salad must embody the following points : 



freshness 

crispness 

appetizing combination 

harmonize with the decora- 
tion and color of the china 
in which it is served 



coolness 
attractive color 
appropriateness to the meal 
harmonize with the rest of 
the meal 



To prepare salad greens : 

- a. Wash leaves and examine carefully for parasites, sand, etc. 
h. Pile leaves lightly on a cheesecloth, fold the cloth over and 
keep thus arranged on ice or near the ice, or 

c. Wash the leaves and place them in a tin pail which can be 

tightly covered. Set the pail in the ice box. Salad greens 
can be carried for a picnic in a pail and arrive in good 
condition. 

d. If salad greens are wilted, allow them to stand in cold or ice 

water for some time before attempting to prepare. 

Accessories served with salads : 



Breadstuffs 

bread sticks 

rolls 

cheese straws 

toasted crackers 

educator crackers 
Other accessories 

cheese balls 

fried cheese balls 

radishes 

olives : ripe, green, stuffed 



toast 

cheese tea biscuits 

cheese crackers 

saltines 



toasted cheese 

celery : curls, pieces, 

hearts 
Bar le Due currants 
nuts : salted, unsalted 



252 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Salads may be made in the greatest variety of combinations : among 
the most popular are : 

1. Meat 

a. chicken, celery 

chicken, celery, sour apple, pine nuts 
chicken, celery, pine nuts, tiny sections lemon 

b. veal, celery 

veal, chicken, celery 

c. lamb, celery 

d. sweet bread, endive cut in sections 

2. Fish 

a. tuna, celery 
6. salmon, celery 

salmon, cabbage 

salmon, cucumber, gelatin 
c. white fish, celery 

3. Shellfish 

a. lobster, celery 
h. crab, celery 
c. scallops 

4- Egg 

egg, green pepper 
egg, pimento 
egg, potato 

5. Vegetables 

a. potato 

French dressing potato, chives 

boiled dressing potato, parsley 

potato, carrot potato, egg 

potato, beets potato, cucumber, green 

potato, German onions pepper 

h. carrot 

grated raw, boiled, or cooked 
carrot, peas 



SALADS AND SANDV/ICHES 253 



c. beets, potato 

beets, peas 

beets, stuffed with cabbage 

d. onions 

German onions, tomato 

onions, cucumber 

onion, dressing as sandwich 

e. peas, carrots 

peas, string beans 

peas, potato each in a lettuce cup 
/. beans 

string beans 

lima beans 

baked beans 
g. asparagus 

pimento 

green pepper 
h. cucumbers, radishes 

celery 
i. cauliflower, tart dressing 

6. Fruits 

a. white cherries, pieces pineapple 

white cherries, balls of pear, apple, or peach 

h. orange, grapefruit orange, water cress 

orange, pineapple orange, almonds 

orange, lemon, walnuts 

c. grapefruit, pineapple 

d. apple, celery, nuts 
apple, water cress 

e. peach halves filled with mayonnaise and nuts 

peach halves stuck with almonds covered with mayonnaise 
pears used as peaches 

f. fresh apricots, almonds, or pine nuts 

g. green pepper 

sliced or chopped 
stuffed with : 



254 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

cream cheese and mayonnaise 
cream cheese and pimento 
yellow cheese and mayonnaise 

American cheese and green and red pepper chopped very 
fine 

filled with : 

. „. , . r I c. water juice i lemon 

lemed mayonnaise < , ^. 

■■ -^ I 2 tsp. gelatm i c. mayonnaise 

tarragon jelly mixed with chopped cabbage, celery, pimento 

red pepper — use as green pepper 
h. tomato 

sUced 

cut in halves, cover cut surface with stiEF mayonnaise, over 
this chopped green pepper 

poinsettia 

cut skin and pulp in sections as petals of poinsettia 
remove part of pulp and seeds and fill cavity with 
chopped celery and green pepper 
i. cucumbers 

tomato and cucumber slices 

variations given with potato 
j. pineapple 

circles, nuts 

circles cut to make sections, roll of cream cheese 

between each section 

see white cherries, orange, grapefruit 
k. bananas 

banana, finely chopped peanuts 

7. Miscellaneous 

figs, dates, nuts, cream dressing 

dates, stuffed with cream cheese, mayonnaise dressing 

dates, almonds, mayonnaise dressing 

dates, Brazil nuts, mayonnaise dressing 

gelatin given 

Fruits and vegetables may be cut in cubes, balls, shredded, or fancy 
shapes. Containers may be made of orange or lemon rind, apples. 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 255 

peppers, tomatoes, peaches, pears, cabbage leaves, lettuce hearts, 
whole cabbage, beet shells, cucumbers, romaine leaves. 

Sandwiches 
General Rules. 

1 . Bread should be a day old, unless it is going to be rolled. White, 
graham, or Boston brown may be used. Sometimes two kinds are 
used in the same sandwich. Slice as thin as possible, remove crusts 
if desired, keeping the slices in pairs, then cut the desired shape. 
To give variety, bread may be cut in fancy shapes, — hearts, triangles, 
squares, rectangles, circles, etc. The center may be removed from a 
white bread sandwich with a tiny cutter and the hole fiUed in with a 
piece of brown bread the size of the piece removed. 

2. Cream the butter by rubbing it against the sides of a bowl with 
a wooden spoon. 

3. Butter one side of the sandwich and put filling on the other side. 
Press lightly together. 

4. Wrap sandwithes in paraffin paper. Large numbers may be 
placed in a crock and covered with a damp towel and plate. 

5. Save crusts of bread. Dry and grate for fine crvunbs for cro- 
quettes. 

6. Meat and poultry fillings are best when the meat is chopped. 

7. Serve sandwiches in a basket or on a plate covered with a doUy. 

Sandwiches 

Conveyor of filling : 
Bread 

white Boston brown 

entire wheat nut 

graham raisin 

Gingersnaps 

cheese fillings are best with gingersnaps 
Crackers 

Educator Saltines 

fillings fillings 

cheese ' cheese 

marmalade nut 

fig date marmalade 



2S6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Toast 

fillings 

marmalade 

fig 
date 
salad 
Fillings for sandwiches : 

Meat : ' 

ham — chopped, seasoned 
ham — ■ chopped, sauce tartare 
ham — chopped, hard-cooked eggs 
ham — chopped, hard-cooked eggs, white sauce 
tongue, corned beef, lamb, veal, poultry or a combination of 
any of the above 

Baked beans : 
Salad : 

poultry, veal or lamb chopped, celery, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

cucumber, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

egg, mayonnaise, lettuce 

oHve, cream cheese, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

egg, olives, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

lobster, celery, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

shrimp, celery, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

tuna fish, celery, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

salmon, celery, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

lettuce, mayonnaise 

lettuce, mayonnaise, sliced tomatoes 
Cheese : 

American cheese — moistened with vinegar, anchovy essence, or 
sardine paste 

American cheese sliced ; dill pickles sliced, highly seasoned 

cream cheese — moistened with cream 

cream cheese — moistened with mayonnaise 

cream cheese, pimento 

cream cheese, walnuts or peanuts 

cream cheese, olives 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 257 

cream cheese, French dressing, pecans 

cream cheese, green and red peppers 

cream cheese, dairy cheese grated, highly seasoned 

cottage cheese, green peppers 

cottage cheese, parsley finely chopped 
Nut: 

walnuts or any nuts chopped, cream 

walnuts or any nuts chopped, mayonnaise 
Sour: 

sweet pickles, olives, red pepper, dressing 

sour pickles, green pepper, celery, dressing 

oHves, celery, red pepper, dressing 

cucumber, green pepper, mayonnaise 

chives, tomato, cut fijie, cucumber 
Miscellaneous : 

chopped dates, cream cheese 

sweet chocolate; preserved ginger, chopped, moistened with 
ginger sirup 

chopped dates, walnuts or any other kind of nut 

jeUy, walnuts 

preserved ginger, walnuts 

figs, raisins, dates, nuts 

peanuts, raisins 

orange marmalade, nuts 

prunes, walnuts, lemon juice 



i lb. figs 
i c. water 



Fig Paste 

1 , i c. nuts 

> cook to a paste . . , , 

J juice 5 lemon 

Orange Honey 

I c. sugar 1 

J c. water > boil to thread stage 

3 c. orange juice J 

add 
5 c. orange peel chopped 5 tsp. vanilla 

Bring to boUing point and cool 



258 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Fancy Sandwiches 
Rolled 

Remove crusts from very fresh loaf of sandwich bread. Remove 
long slice of bread, spread with butter and a mixture of celery, green 
and red pepper, and mayonnaise. Roll like jelly roll. Cut across in 
^-inch slices. 

Club 

toasted bread lettuce 

chicken broiled bacon 

tomato mayonnaise 

Fairmont 

Spread three oblongs of bread with butter on both sides, 2 slices 
on one side. Put together with mixture of green and red peppers, 
celery, and mayonnaise. Wrap in cheesecloth and press under a 
weight. Slice. 

Spanish 

2 anchovies 2 pickles 

I piece parsley 2 tbsp. oil 

Pound and add : 

1 tsp. prepared mustard 2 tbsp. oil 

yolks 2 hard-boiled eggs whites 2 hard-boiled eggs 

Checkers 

Cut three thick shces each white and brown bread. Spread one 
white with butter and cream cheese and place brown on it. Spread 
this slice and place a white slice on it. 

Repeat this process, starting with a brown slice. 

Put each in cheesecloth under weights. Trim and cut each in 31- 
inch slices. Spread with butter and put together so that a white 
block alternates with a brown. Press again and slice thin. 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 

FOOD VALUES 
Vegetable Salad with Mayonnaise Dressing 



259 













S 












Material 


s 


§1 



d 

£0 


5I 
■-5 


h 

< 






$ 




s =a a 

uO 

£5 


l| 


Peas . . . 


2 tbsp. 


40. 


1.44 


.008 


3.92 


22 


.006 


.007 


.052 


.0003 


Beans 


2 tbsp. 


30. 5 


■33 


•03 


I.I5 


6 


.006 


.01 


.017 


.0002 


Cauliflower 


I tbsp. 


23.6 


.42 


.118 


I.I 


7 


.008 


.038 


.031 




Lettuce 


2 leaves 


31.7 


.38 


■095 


•91 


6 


.009 


■oiS 


.028 


.0003 


Mayonnaise . • 


I tbsp. 


14.4 


.51 


4.41 




100 


.0098 


.005 


.031 


.0003 


Total . . 


6 tbsp. 


140.2 


3.08 


4.66 


7.08 


141 


.0,192 


■07s 


•1S9 


.0011 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


4J tbsp. 


gS.g 


2.17 


3.28 


4.99 


IOC 


.0276 


.0052 


.011 


.0007 



Romaine or Lettuce Salad 



Romaine . 


I head 


226.2 


2.71 


.68 


6.^6 


43 


.06 


.III 


.202 


.002 


Olive oil . . 


5 tbsp. 


SS.5 




55.5 




Soo 


.040 


.007 


.009 


.0001 


Vinegar . . 


2 tbsp. 


293 










.003 








Mustard . . 


I tsp. 


2.8 










.003 








Pepper and salt 


Itsp. 


2.6 










.005 








Total . 


IS leaves 

4 c. 

dressing 


316.4 


2.71 


56.18 


6.56 


S43 


.12 


.118 


.211 


.0021 


loo-Calorie f 
Portion [ 


3 leaves 
i tbsp. 
dressing 


60.78 


■5 


10.38 


1. 21 


100 


.022 


.020 


.038 


.0004 



Wholewheat Bread and Cheese Sandwich 



Loaf bread 

(trimmed) . 
Butter . 
Cream cheese . 


I 
si tbsp. 
ipkg. 


231.4 
99.2 
62.3 


22.45 

•99 

161.36 


2.08 
8432 
20.99 


115.11 
i-S 


569 
763 
260 


.03s 
.079 

.037 


.062 
.022 
.78 


.426 
.0303 
1.04 


.0017 
.0003 


Total 

loo-Calorie 
Portion . . 


24 
i| 


392.9 
24.36 


184.8 
11.46 


107.39 
6.66 


116.61 
7.32 


1592 
100 


.151 
.009 


.S64 
.0318 


1.4965 
.0897 


.0020 
.0001 



Notice that in the sandwich the butter furnished more than half of the 
total energy value (calories) , in the vegetable salad the oil of the mayonnaise 
furnished two-thirds of the calories, and in the lettuce salad the oil used as 
dressing furnished over ten limes as much energy as the lettuce itself. 



CHAPTER XVIII 
SALAD DRESSINGS 

EXPERIMENTS WITH OILS 

194. — a. Prepare French dressing, using recipe II given below 
(pp. 261-262). 

b. Again use this recipe, substituting for the vinegar the 
following : 

tarragon vinegar 

wine vinegar 

lemon juice 

5 lemon juice, 5 orange juice 

grapefruit juice 

pineapple juice 

c. Again use this recipe, substituting for the olive oU the 
following oils : 

5 ohve oil, 5 cottonseed 

cottonseed 

peanut 

corn 

melted butter 

Note : The instructor may further test the above oils by using various fruit 
acids with each, as some fruit acids blend well with the ohve oil 
substitutes. 

195. — a. Prepare mayonnaise dressing, using the recipe below 
(p. 263). 

b. Prepare other mixtures, substituting in turn the following : 
i cottonseed, | olive oil 
5 cottonseed, I olive oil 
J cottonseed, ', olive oil 
cottonseed oil (Wesson) 
260 



SALAD DRESSINGS 261 

5 peanut oil, 5 olive oil 
peanut oil 

5 corn oil, J olive oil 
J corn oU, f olive oil 
corn oil 

196. — a. Prepare mayonnaise dressing by the usual method, sub- 
stituting for the egg yolks, egg yolks which have been hard cooked. 
Compare with the dressing prepared from the uncooked egg yolks. 

b. Reduce the number of egg yolks ^ and prepare mayon- 
naise by the usual recipe. Add to this a partly stiffened gelatin 
mixture of i c. water, 1 tsp. lemon juice, 2 tsp. gelatin. Beat the 
mixture thoroughly and place in the ice box for twenty-four hours. 

197. — Prepare mayonnaise as in 196, b, but instead of adding 
gelatin mixture add i tbsp. boiling water and beat' it thoroughly. 
AUow this to remain in ice box twenty-four hours. Compare with 
that m 196, 6. 

Summarize the results of Expts. 194-197: 

a. From the standpoint of the chemical and physical proper- 
ties of the substances used and their behavior under the treatment to 
which they were subjected. 

b. With reference to the feasibihty of making salad dress- 
ings from a wide variety of materials. 

The refined cottonseed, com (maize), peanut, and olive oils of 
commerce are practically identical in food value. The substitution 
of one of the cheaper oils for olive oil in any of the following recipes 
will not alter the food value of the product. 

Salad Dressings 

French Dressing I 

Ingredients : 

5 tsp. salt 2 tbsp. vinegar (cider) 

J tsp. pepper 4 tbsp. olive oil 

Method : 

Mix ingredients and stir until well blended. Some prefer the 
addition of a few drops of onion juice. French dressing is more easily 
prepared and more commonly used than any other dressing. 



262 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 

5 tsp. salt 
5 tsp. pepper 

Method : 
Proceed as above. 



French Dressing II 



I tbsp. vinegar 
3 tbsp. olive oil 



Spanish Dressing 



Ingredients : 

I tsp. salt 

I tsp. ijaprika 

I tbsp. horseradish 

Method : 
Mix aU ingredients and blend thoroughly. Serve on green salad. 



2 tbsp. chili sauce 
1 tbsp. vinegar 

3 tbsp. ohve oil 



Ingredients : 

5 tbsp. salt 

5 tbsp. mustard 

f tbsp. sugar 

Method : 



Cream Dressing 

I egg slightly beaten 
25 tbsp. melted butter 
f c. cream 
I c. vinegar 



Mix ingredients in order given, adding vinegar very slowly. Cook 
over boiling water, stirring constantly until mixture thickens, strain 
arid cool. 



ients : 


BoUed 


Dressing 


J tbsp. salt 




5 tbsp. flour 


I tsp. mustard 




yolks 2 eggs 


cayenne 




1 5 tbsp. melted butter 


J c. vinegar 




f c. milk 



Method : 

Mix dry ingredients, add yolks of eggs slightly beaten, butter, 
milk, and vinegar very slowly. Cook over boiling water, stirring 
constantly until mixture thickens. Strain and cool. 



SALAD DRESSINGS 



263 



Mayonnaise Dressing 



2 tbsp. lemon juice 
2 tbsp. vinegar 
i| c. olive oU 



Ingredients : 

I tsp. salt 
cayenne 
yolks 2 eggs 

Method : 

Mix dry ingredients, add egg yolks, and when well mixed, add ^ tea- 
spoon vinegar. Add oil gradually, drop by drop at first, and stir con- 
stantly. As mixture thickens, thin with vinegar or lemon juice. 
Add oil and acid alternately until aU is used, stirring or beating 
constantly. If oil is added too rapidly, dressing will have a curdled 
appearance. A smooth consistency may be restored by taking yolk 
of another egg and adding curdled mixture slowly to it. It is 
desirable to have bowl containing mixture placed in a larger bowl 
of crushed ice. i teaspoon powdered sugar may be added to the 
dressing if the flavor is desired. 



FOOD VALUES 
Mayonnaise 



Material 


1 

1 




|cS 


hB 
^ 


go 


Li 


1 
$ 


4 



III 

&6 


II 


Egg yolks . . 


2 


45-6 


7.16 


16.18 




165 


.0165 


.082 


.449 


.0038 


Vinegar 


I tbsp. 


17.5 




1 


1 


' 


.001 








Oil . . 


f c. 


135-3 




I3S-3 




1218 


■ iiq.S 








Mustard 


itsp. 


2 


















Salt . . . 


i tsp. 




















Total . . 


I c. 


200.4 


7.16 


151.48 




1383 


■1363 


.082 


.449 


.003S 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


I tbsp. 


14.48 


•512 


4.41 




100 


.009 


.005 


.031 


.0003 



^ The small amounts of food substances in the vinegar are considered negligible. 



264 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



French Dressing 



Material 


< 


ffl S 

go 






H 

go 


^1 


1 

$ 


-t uO 






01 

s§ 

"O 


Olive oil 


6 Ibsp. 


68 




68 




612 


.o.,88 








Vinegar 

Salt . . . 


2 tbsp. 


38 


1 


1 


I 


1 


.003 








Pepper . 
Paprika 






















Total . . . 


ic. 


106 




68 




612 


.0618 








lOO-Calorie 






















Portion . . 


I J tbsp. 


173 




II 




100 


.0105 









Boiled Dressing 



Butter . . . 
Sugar . . . 


I tsp. 
1 tsp. 


5-6 
5-7 


•OS 


4.76 


S-7 


43 
22 


.0052 
.0006 


.0012 


.0017 




Flour . 
Egg yolks . . 
Cream 
Vinegar . . 


I tsp. 
2 

1 tbsp. 

2 tbsp. 


5-5 
36.6 
18.1 


.61 

5-74 

•39 


.005 
12.18 
7.24 


4.11 

■54 
1 


19 

133 

69 

1 


.0003 
.0366 
.008 
.003 


.0013 

.066 

.04 


.0094 

■35 

.068 


.0001 

■003 

.0001 


Total 
loo-Calorie 


9 tbsp. 


7I-S 


6.79 


24.18 


IO-3S 


286 


•OS37 


.1085 


.4291 


-0031 


Portion . 


3 tbsp. 


24-QS 


2.37 


3.61 


3.61 


100 


.0177 


•037 


.1501 


.0010 



References 
Oils 

Cotton Seed and its Products. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Farmers' Bulletin 36. 

Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

Moore. Experiments with Edible Oils. Arkansas Agricultural 
Experiment Station, Bulletin 78 (1903). 

' The small amounts of food substances in the vinegar are considered negligible. 



SALAD DRESSINGS 265 

Sherman. Food Products. 

Sherman. Organic Analysis. 

Simmons and Mitchell. Edible Fats and Oils. 

ToLMAN and Munson. Olive Oil and its Substitutes. United 

States Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 77 (1902). 
Walker. Coconuts and Coconut Oil. Philippine Journal of Science, 

Vol. I, pages 58-117 (1906). 
Wiley. Foods and their Adulterations. 



CHAPTER XIX 
DESSERTS 

Steamed Puddings 

General Rules. 

Mix as cake. Do not sift graham or entire wheat flour. Molds 
and covers should be weE greased. The length of time for steaming 
depends on the size of pudding ; i-6 hours. After steaming, remove 
cover and place in hot oven a minute to dry. Remove from tin and 
serve with a hard or liquid sauce. 



Steamed Indian Pudding 

Ingredients : 

5 c. meal ^ c. suet 

I c. flour 5 c. molasses 

I tsp. salt 5 c. sour milk 

I tsp. soda I c. raisins 

Method : 

Sift dry ingredients and add to the suet mixed with molasses and 
milk. Add the fruit, beat well, and steam. 

Date Pudding 

Ingredients : 

6 tbsp. butter J tsp. salt 

I c. molasses J tsp. clove 

I c. milk J tsp. allspice 

3^ c. flour 1 tsp. nutmeg 

I tsp. soda f lb. dates — chopped 
266 



Ingredients : 



DESSERTS 
Fig Pudding 



5 lb. suet 

i lb. figs — chopped 

24 c. bread crumbs 



267 



5 c. milk 
2 eggs 
I c. sugar 



Ingredients : 



I c. suet 
I c. molasses 
I c. milk 
3 c. flour 
I tsp. soda 
1 5 tsp. salt 



Hunters' Pudding 



J tsp. cloves 
J tsp. mace 
5 tsp. allspice 

1 tsp. cinnamon 
15 c. raisins 

2 tbsp. flour 



Fruit Pudding (Plum) 

Ingredients : 

I lb. currants 
I lb. raisins 
J lb. citron 
J lb. orange peel 
J lb. lemon peel 
I lb. brown sugar 



I lb. suet 

I lb. bread crumbs 



I tsp. salt 

I c. flour 

4 tsp. cinnamon 

I tsp. nutmeg 

I tsp. allspice 

8 eggs 

I c. brandy 

1 c. sherry 



juice and rind i lemon 



Ingredients : 






i c. butter 
1 c. sugar 
5 c. milk 




2j c. flour 

3^ tsp. baking powder 

whites 4 eggs 


Individual molds. 


Serve with jam. 





268 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Pudding Sauces 

Classification : 

Cold. A butter foundation using granulated, brown, or confec- 
tioners' sugar. 

Hot. A foundation of water or fruit juice thickened with eggs, 
sago, arrowroot, cornstarch, or flour. 

Flavors : 
The following may be used as flavoring : 

fresh fruit vanilla 

fruit flavors cooking brandy- 

spices 

Sauces for Puddings 

Hard Sauce 

Ingredients : 

^ c. butter i| tsp. vanilla or 

I c. powdered sugar J tsp. nutmeg 

Method : 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, beating until light and creamy. 
Add flavoring. Chill thoroughly before serving. 

Sterling Sauce 

Ingredients : 

^ c. butter i tsp. vanilla or lemon 

I c. brown sugar or soft maple sugar 4 tbsp. cream 

Lemon Sauce 

Ingredients : 

1 c. sugar 2 c. boiling water 

2 tbsp. flour I lemon, juice and rind 

2 tbsp. butter 

Method : 

Mix sugar and flour, add water slowly and boil 15 minutes, stirring 
occasionally. When ready to serve, add butter and lemon. 



DESSERTS 269 

Cream Sauce 

Ingredients : 

I egg 5 c. thick cream 

I c. powdered sugar | c. milk 

I tsp. vanilla 
Method : 

Beat white of egg until stiflf; add well-beaten yolk and sugar. 
Dilute cream with milk and whip. Combine mixtures and flavor. 



Vanilla Sauce 

Ingredients : 

2 c. boUing water J c. butter 

§ tsp. salt I c. sugar 

2 tbsp. cornstarch i egg 

I tsp. vanilla 
Method: 

Combine cornstarch and salt, mix with a little cold water, and add 
to the boiling water. Boil 5 minutes, stirring constantly. Cream 
the butter and sugar, add beaten egg and vanUla. Add to first mix- 
ture. Beat well. 



Sabayon Sauce 
Ingredients : 




grated rind and juice 5 lemon 


i c. sugar 


J c. orange juice 


2 eggs 



Method : 

Mix lemon, orange juice, sugar, and yolks of eggs; stir vigorously 
over fire until it thickens, using a wire whisk or perforated spoon ; 
pour on to whites of eggs beaten stiff ; serve hot. 

Frozen Desserts 

Frozen desserts may well be 'included more frequently in 
planning meals for the family dietary. They are refreshing, 
give a great opportunity for variety, and when made in the 
home are very economical. 



270 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

The selling price of commercial ice cream must be consider- 
ably higher than the cost of the ingredients because of the 
perishable nature of the product and the uncertauity of 
the demand. Homemade ice cream is therefore usually 
much cheaper than commercial — with the added advantage 
of greater certainty as to the quaUty of the materials 
used. 

Ice cream is a fairly concentrated food material, while an 
ice is essentially a frozen beverage and is chiefly valuable for 
the fruit juices it contains. Frozen mixtures are cooHng and 
refreshing, and when made in the home are economical desserts. 

EXPERIMENTS 

198. — Freezing mixtures : 

The usual proportions of ice and salt for freezing mixtures are as 
foUows : 

u,. T part ice, i part salt 

b. 2 parts ice, i part salt 

c. 3 parts ice, i part salt 

d. 4 parts ice, i part salt 

Make each of these mixtures and determine as in a physics labora- 
tory experiment the minimum temperature reached by each. 

199. — a. Prepare one recipe each of lemon ice, plain ice cream, 
and caramel cream. 

h. Divide each recipe into four equal parts, .\, B, C, D. 

c. Freeze as follows ; record temperature of freezing mix- 
tures throughout the experiment. Record temperature of frozen 
product. 

A. frozen by 198, a. 

B. frozen by 198, b. 

C. frozen by 198, c. 

D. frozen by 198, d. 

Note : In each case turn the freezer evenly and quickly until mixtures are 
frozen, or until you are satisfied mixtures will not freeze. 



DESSERTS 271 

d. Compare results. Note time of freezing, consistency of 
product, fineness of grain, flavor. 

200. — Prepare one recipe of lemon ice. Divide into four parts ; 
use the freezing mixture most successful in 199, c, and freeze the ice 
as follows : 

a. Let freeze without stirring 

h. Stir occasionally 

c. Stir constantly very fast 

Compare results. What is the difference in consistency and to 
what due ? 

201. — Use the fourth part of the lemon ice prepared in 200, 
and add to it a small amount of gelatin (see rule for lemon 
jeUy and add corresponding amount of gelatin to liquid). Freeze 
ice by stirring constantly and compare the result with the ices 
previously made. Of what value is gelatin in a frozen mixture? 
Could whites of eggs be used ? 

Note : Would it be possible to use sugar in place of salt in a freezing mix- 
ture ? 

202. — Prepare i c. of lemon ice, put in a pint jar and freeze, using 
sugar instead of salt. Why does the sugar lower the temperature 
and cause the lemon ice to freeze ? 

Note : These experiments are very enlightening and interesting if glass 
containers for the frozen mixture are used. Preserving jars, 
cream jars, or jelly glasses serve the purpose. 

203. — a. Prepare one '' quantity " of ice cream. Divide into four 
equal parts. A, B, C, D. 

h. Freeze and pack A in a freezer having a wooden con- 
tainer for the ice. 

c. Freeze and pack B in a freezer having a galvanized iron 
container. 

d. Freeze and pack C in a glass jar. 

e. Freeze D in any freezer but pack in the fireless cooker. 
Allow all to stand 4 hours. Compare as to conductivity of containers. 



272 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Fillers in Ice Cream 

a. Kinds 

1. Starchy, wheat, rice, and cornstarch. 

2. Egg, used in French ice cream. 

b. Purposes 

1. Gives firmer body. 

2. Better standing-up quahties. 



c. 

1. Increases keeping qualities. 

2. Improves texture. 

d. Disadvantages 

1. Egg and starchy fillers have to be cooked. 

2. Cannot be kept in stock form. 

3. In excess gives soggy cream. 

4. In excess reduces the swell. 



Binders in Ice Cream 

a. Kinds 



1 . Gelatin — animal origin. yMssolved in boiling water or milk 
and added at once. 

2. Gum tragacanth — vegetable origin. Is replacing gelatin. 

b. Purpose — to bind the mixture and improve texture. 

c. Advantages 

1. Prevents grainy texture. 

2. Keeps water from forming crystals. 

d. Disadvantages 

1. Slight inferiority of gelatin may be disguised by other in- 
gredients. 

2. Allows a warmer holding temperature, which permits more 
rapid deterioration. 

Ice Cream Powders 

Powdered gelatin and gum tragacanth to which is added 2-3 times 
its weight in sugar. 



DESSERTS 273 

Classification of Frozen Desserts 

1. Ices. Fruit juices, diluted and sweetened. 

a. Sherbet. Ice containing gelatin or egg whites. 

6. Milk sherbet. Fruit juices and milk., sweetened. 

c. Frappe. Partly frozen ices. 

d. Punch. Sherbet highly flavored with liquid, fruit juices, or 
spice. 

e. SoufH6. Sherbet containing the whole egg. 

2. Ice Cream 

a. Philadelphia.^ Cream, flavored and sweetened. 
6. French.! Cream, custard, flavored and sweetened. 

3. Parfait. Cream, sugar, and egg whites with or without fruits, 
nuts, or flavorings. 

4. Mousse. Frozen whipped cream, sweetened and flavored. 

5. Pudding. Cream, custard, fruit, and nuts highly flavored. 

6. Lacio. Sour, skimmed, or whole milk, eggs and sugar, flavored. 

7. Junket. Frozen junket. 

Ice Creams and Ices 
General Rules for Freezing. 

Scald the can, cover, and dasher of freezer before using them. 
Adjust the can carefully in the tub before packing. 
Pack freezer up to lower edge of cover, pour in mixture, readjust 
and pack to completely cover the can. 
For freezing, use : 

3 parts finely chopped ice 
I part rock salt 

For packing after freezing, use : 

4 parts ice 

I part rock salt 

• These terms are not always used in the sense here given. By some, " Philadel- 
phia ice cream" is understood to mean one whose ingredients have been cooked 
before freezing. 

T 



274 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

For freezing cream, the crank should be turned slowly and steadily. 

When mixture is frozen, remove ice and salt from top of can, wipe 
cover and top, uncover and carefully remove dasher. Cover and 
put a stopper in cover. Drain off aU the water which has collected 
in the tub during freezing; repack with ice and salt (4-1), cover 
with something heavy and allow to stand several hours to ripen. 



Vanilla Ice Cream 

Ingredients : 

I qt. cream f c. sugar 

I tsp. vaniUa 
Method : 

Scald 5 the cream, add the sugar, remainder of cream and vanilla. 
Cool and freeze according to directions. 



Chocolate Sauce 

Ingredients : 

I oz. chocolate i tbsp. butter 

I c. sugar ^ c. water 

I tsp. vanilla 
Method : 

Melt chocolate, add butter, sugar, water. BoU 1 5 minutes, cool, 
and add vanilla. 

Strawberry Ice Cream 

Ingredients : 

I qt. berries 2 c. sugar 

I qt. cream 
Method : 

Mash berries, add sugar and let stand i hour. Rub through a 
colander or fine strainer. Add the cream whipped. 



Frozen Custard I 

Ingredients : 

2 c. milk 1 tbsp. vaniUa 

I c. sugar I pt. cream. 

3 eggs 



DESSERTS 275 

Frozen Custard II 

Ingredients : 

2 c. scalded milk | tsp. salt 

1 c. sugar I qt. thin cream 
S eggs 2 tbsp. vanilla 

Method : 

Make a custard of first four ingredients. Strain, cool, add cream 
and vanilla. Freeze. 

Caramel Ice Cream I 

Ingredients : 

2 c. milk 4 yolks 

1 c. sugar f c. sugar, caramelized 
J c. flour I qt. cream 

Method : 

Cook first three ingredients 20 minutes in double boiler, add yolks 
and cook 2 minutes. Add caramel, strain, cool, and add cream. 

Caramel Ice Cream II 

Ingredients : 

2 c. scalded milk i c. sugar 

J c. sugar J c. boUing water 

3 eggs I qt. thin cream 
5 tsp. salt 2 tsp. vannia 

Method : 

Make a custard of iirst four ingredients. Strain and cool. Cara- 
melize the I c. sugar and add the boiling water to it. Combine mix- 
tures, add cream and vanQla. Freeze. When half frozen, add i c. 
chopped nuts and raisins. 

Prune Ice Cream 

Ingredients : 

t c. prunes i c. sugar 

17 c. water 4 tbsp. lemon Juice 

ij c. cream (scalded) s tsp. salt 



276 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Prepare the prunes for cooking and boil them in one and one half 
cups water untU the pulp is soft. Rub the pulp through a strainer, 
add the sugar, lemon juice, salt, and scalded cream. 

Lacto Ice Cream 

Ingredients : 

I qt. sour milk if c. sugar 

i c. grape juice i c. lemon juice 

I egg 
Method : 

Beat the eggs in the grape juice until the liquid is somewhat 
thickened. Add this to the sour milk, to which has been added the 
sugar and lemon juice. 

Chocolate Ice Cream 

Ingredients : 

I c. water 2 oz. chocolate 

I c. sugar I qt. cream 

1 tbsp. vanilla 
Method : 

Melt chocolate over hot water, add hot water and boU 5 minutes. 
Add salt and cool. Add cream and vaniUa. 

Coffee Ice Cream 

Ingredients : 

J c. coffee f c. boiling water 

Method : 

Make boiled coffee, add to recipe of plain frozen custard. Omit 
vanilla. 

Sherbets 

Milk Sherbet 

Ingredients : 

I qt. mOk or cream 2 c. sugar 

5 c. lemon juice rind 1 lemon 



DESSERTS 



277 



Method : 
Let lemon juice and sugar stand i hour. Add milk. 



Ingredients : 

I qt. milk, or cream 
3 tbsp. lemon juice 



Orange Sherbet 



if c. sugar 

1 c. orange juice 



Pineapple Sherbet 



Ingredients : 

I qt. milk or cream 

5 tbsp. lemon juice J c. orange juice 

I pineapple, grated 



If c. sugar 
3. 



Ingredients : 

4 c. water 
2 c. sugar 



Combination Sherbet 

pulp of 2 oranges 
pulp of 2 lemons 
pulp of 2 bananas 



Ices 

Lemon Ice 

Ingredients : 

4 c. water 2 c. sugar 

f c. lemon juice 

Method : 

Make a sirup by boiling sugar and water 5 minutes, add lemci 
juice, cool, strain, and freeze. 



Ingredients : 

4 c. water 
2 c. sugar 



Orange Ice 



grated rind of 2 oranges 
2 c. orange juice 



J c. lemon juice 



278 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Frozen Grape Juice 
Follow recipe for orange ice, using 2 c. grape juice instead of orange. 



Ingredients : 

1 qt. can fruit 



Frozen Apricots or Peaches 



i^ c. sugar 



water 
Method : 

Drain fruit and cut in small pieces. To the sirup, add enough 
water to make 4 cups, and cook with sugar 5 minutes ; strain, add 
fruit, cool, and freeze. 



Ingredients : 

4 c. water 
2 c. water'' 



Pineapple Ice 

juice 2 lemons 
juice 2 oranges 
1 5 pineapples, grated 



Ingredients : 

4 c. water 
ij c. sugar 

Ingredients : 

4 c. water 
I c. sugar 

Ingredients : 

4 c. water 



Ingredients : 

4 c. water 
i^ c. sugar 



Strawberry Ice 



2 c. strawberry juice 
2 tbsp. lemon juice 



Raspberry Ice 



2 c. raspberry juice 
juice 3 lemon 



Currant Ice 



2 c. currant juice 



15 c. sugar 
Currant and Raspberry 



f c. raspberry juice 
i| c. currant juice 



Ingredients : 

4 c. water 
2 c. sugar 



DESSERTS 
Mint Ice 

Ginger Ice 



4 c. water 
I c. sugar 
\ c. lemon juice 



279 



juice 2 lemons 

leaves of 1 2 stalks of mint 



J lb. Canton ginger cut in 

pieces 
5 c. orange juice 



Ingredients : 

2 c. milk 
2 eggs 

6 tbsp. flour 
1 c. sugar 
I tsp. vanilla 



Puddings 



Frozen Pudding 



3 tsp. salt 

1 qt. cream 

2 tbsp. rum 

4 tbsp. madeira 
I tbsp. brandy 

I c. maraschino cherries 
Method : 

Cook fiour and milk 20 minutes in a double boiler, stirring until it 
thickens. Pour over the eggs and sugar. Return to double boiler 
and cook a little longer, stirring constantly. Strain, cool, and add 
remaining ingredients. 



Ingredients : 

I c. sugar 
I c. chestnuts 
I c. boiling water 
i lb. candied fruit 



Nesselrode Pudding 



I c. almonds shelled 
I c. cream 

I c. canned pineapple 
yolks 3 eggs 

5 tbsp. vanilla 

2 tbsp. sherry 
Method : 

Shell chestnuts, remove from skin, boil until soft and press through 
a colander. Blanch, dry, and pound almonds. 



Add fruit cut in 



28o LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

small pieces. Boil sugar and water 15 minutes, and pour over the 
well-beaten yolks. Cook in a double boiler until egg thickens. 
Cool, beating constantly. Add other ingredients. After freezing let 
ripen 4-5 hours. 

Sauce for Nesselrode Pudding 

Ingredients : 

3 egg yolks if c. whipped cream 

3 tbsp. powdered sugar 5 tsp. vanilla 

Method : 

Beat eggs until thick, add sugar and beat again. Stir in a double 
boiler until it thickens slightly. Pour into a bowl and beat until 
creamy. Add flavoring and cream ; i tbsp. brandy or wine may be 
added. 

Baked Alaska 

Turn I qt. brick Vanilla Ice Cream out on an oblong sponge cake. 
Cover with a meringue made of 4 whites of eggs. Brown in a very 
hot oven. Place the cake on a paper, on a board, before turning out 
the ice cream. 

Ice Cream Molds 

Freeze the cream very hard. Pack solidly into the mold, cover 
and wrap with several thicknesses of paper. Tie with strong cord 
and pack. 

Mousses 

Coffee Mousse 

Ingredients : 

I pt. cream i c. black coffee 

5 c. powdered sugar J tsp. salt 

Method : 

Whip the cream, add sugar and coffee, turn mixture into a mold, 
pack in ice and salt, and let stand five hours. 



DESSERTS 281 

Chocolate Mousse 
Substitute 4 oz. melted chocolate for coffee in Coffee Mousse. 

Strawberry Mousse 

Substitute 2 c. mashed strawberries for coffee. 

Fruit Mousses 

Mix 2 c. of any fruit pulp, with powdered sugar to sweeten, with 
the whip from one pint cream. A small amount of lemon juice 
brings out the flavor of other fruits. 

Grape Juice Mousse 

Substitute 1 c. grape juice for coffee ia the above direction for 
Coffee Mousse. 

Pailfaits 
Silver Parfait 

I c. sugar 3 egg whites 

I c. water i pt. cream 

flavoring 

Method : 

BoU sugar and water until it threads. Pour on to the beaten whites 
of eggs, add whip from cream, flavoring, pack in ice and salt, and 
let stand 4 hours. 



Golden Parfait 

Ingredients : 

I c. sugar 6 egg yolks 

J c. water i pt. cream 



282 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Score Cards 

Sherbets and Ices 

Texture 20 

Consistency (10) 

Smoothness (10) 

Color . . S 

Degree of freezing 10 

Freedom from water crystals 5 

Flavors 60 

Retained flavor (15) 

Imperceptibility of binder (35) 

Delicacy (10) 

100 



Philadelphia Ice Cream 

Texture 20 

Color S 

Flavor • 60 

Degree of freezing 15 

100 



Custard Ice Cream 

Texture 20 

Consistency (s) 

Smoothness (10) 

Condition of solid ingredients (5) 

Color S 

Flavor 60 

Delicacy (30) 

Imperceptibility of filler (30) 

Degree of freezing 15 

ICX) 



DESSERTS 



283 



FOOD VALUES 
Vanilla Ice Cream 













s 












Material 


< 





|l 


4 


1I 

a 


Hc3 


8 
$ 


5 


£3 


si 


Cream 


I C. 


246.1 


5-41 


98.44 


7.38 


937 


■I2,'; 


•s,'; 


■93 


.0009 


Sugar 


3 tbsp. 


38.4 






38.4 


i.W 


.0056 








Vanilla . . . 


li tsp. 


3-3 










.0023 








Total, cooked 


ijc. 


270.4 


5-41 


98.44 


4.S.78 


logo 


•1,^20 


•6.S 


•93 


.0009 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion . . 


2 tbsp. 


24.6 


•49 


8.9s 


4.16 


100 


.012 


•059 


.084 


.0001 



Milk Sherbet 



Sugar . . 


6 tbsp. 


78.6 






78.6 


314 


.0112 








Milk 


4 c. 


II5-7 


3.82 


4-63 


S-79 


80 


.025 


.19 


.24 


.0002 


Cream . 


4 c. 


II3-7 


2-5 


45.48 


3-41 


433 


.0625 


■3 


•43 


.0004 


Lemon juice . 


3 tbsp. 


39-9 






3-91 


16 


.0167 


.012 


.009 




Total 


lie. 


347-9 


6.32 


50.11 


91.71 


843 


■ii.'>4 


.502 


.679 


.0006 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


2 tbsp. 


41.26 


4.89 


S-94 


10.88 


100 


.0136 


.06 


.081 


.0001 



References 
Ice Cream 

Alexander. Effect of Gelatin in IceC ream. Zeitschrift fiir Chemie 
und Industrie der Kolloide, vol. s, pages 101-103 (1909). 

Sherman. Food Products. 

Washburn. Principles and Practice of Ice-Cream Making. Ver- 
mont Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 155. 

Wiley. Ice Cream. United States Public Health Service, Hygienic 
Laboratory, Bulletin 56, pages 249-312 (1909). 



CHAPTER XX 
SUGAR AND CANDY 

Cane sugar is found in the fruits and juices of many plants 
but the principal source is the sugar cane and the sugar beet. 
Cane sugar is made, however, from the maple and palm trees. 
By-products of the sugar made from cane are brown sugar and 
molasses. Corn sirup is made from corn and is lighter in color 
than molasses. It cannot be made to take the hard ball stage 
as molasses will, hence is not suitable for pulled candies or 
butterscotch, but for softer creams or stirred candies it is very 
acceptable. Corn sirup may be used for tafPy by the addition 
of granulated sugar. Maple sirup is made from the sap of 
the maple tree and is essentially an American product. Maple 
sugar is made from the maple sirup and is sold as commonly 
as the sirup. Honey is made from the sugar of flowers by bees, 
and that obtained from clover is considered the finest. Honey 
made early in the summer is sweeter than that made later, 
when a bitter flavor (attributed to goldenrod) is apt to be im- 
parted. 

(See Sherman's Food Products, pages 397-444, for descrip- 
tion of sugar industries, sirups, and confectionery.) 

The sole nutritive function of the sugars is to serve as fuel, 
and the amount which can wisely be eaten is limited because of 
its tendency to irritate the stomach either directly or through 
fermentation. 

384 



SUGAR AND CANDY 285 

EXPERIMENTS 
Sugar 

Sirups — of use in frozen desserts and candy making. 

Various degrees of densities of sirups are recognized with the ther- 
mometer or by testing in cold water for the soft ball, hard ball, crack, 
hard crack, and caramel stage. 

204. — Boil 2 c. sugar in 5 c. water. Note changes in boiliag point 
as the solution becomes more condensed. When the thermometer 
registers various degrees, remove sirup from burner and test in cold 
water for the corresponding stage. 

"soft ball," . . . . °F. . . °C. 

" hard baU," . . . . °F. . . °C. 

"crack," °F. . . °C. 

"hard crack," . . . °F. . . °C. 

" barley," °F. . . °C. 

"caramel," . . °F. . . °C. 

a. Note the density of each stage, together with its cor- 
responding temperature. 

b. Prepare a candy at each stage. 

c. What kinds of candy is each suitable for ? 

d. In what ways could sirups prepared at the various tem- 
peratures be used ? 

e. What sirup is best for : 

ice ? 

sherbet ? 
frappe ? 

205. — Repeat Expt. 204, using the following : 

a. Powdered sugar 

b. Confectioners' sugar 

c. Brown sugar 

d. Molasses 

e. Maple sugar 

/. What are the results ? Conclusions ? 



286 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

206. — Boil 2 c. sugar in j c. water to which J tsp. cream of tartar 
has been added. Carry through the various stages. 

Turn out part of the sirup at each stage and see if you can beat or 
pull it. 

207. — a. Repeat Expt. 206, using vinegar (i tbsp.) and lemon 
juice (2 tbsp.). Compare results with 204 and 205. 

b. Of what use are cream of tartar, vinegar, or lemon 
juice ? 

208. — Prepare molasses candy, boiling it to the hard crack stage. 
Just before turning sirup out to cool, add j tsp. soda. Note result 
in sirup and in candy when puUed. 



Fondant 

Ingredients : 

2 c. granulated sugar i c. cold water 

Method : 

Mix the sugar and water together in a saucepan. Place saucepan 
over heat and stir the contents with a wooden spoon imtil the sugar 
is dissolved. Allow the sirup to boil gently without further stirring 
until the " soft ball " stage is reached. Turn sirup on to a greased 
platter and let it remain undisturbed until a thin film has formed 
over the surface. When this has formed, with a wooden spoon stir 
the sirup until it becomes white and creamy. If sufiiciently stiff 
turn the fondant on to. a marble or kneading board and make per- 
fectly smooth. The fondant will work up better if allowed to re- 
main in the ice box overnight, but if necessary, it can be made up 
at once. 

Precautions : 

1. Scald the saucepan before using for boiling fondant, lest any 
odor of previous cooking appear in the fondant. 

2. Do not stir the sirup after the sugar is melted. (\Miy?) 

3. Do not allow the sirup to boil vigorously. If the sirup boils 
vigorously, crystals of sugar will be deposited in thick masses on the 
sides of the saucepan and are likely to mix with the sirup and appear 



SUGAR AND CANDY 287 

in the final product. A damp cheesecloth on a fork used to remove 
the crystals as fast as formed on the sides of the saucepan will help to 
prevent crystals from mixing with the sirup. 

4. When testing the sirup always remove the saucepan from the 
burner so that if the proper stage is reached it will not proceed to the 
" hard ball " stage and so become too crystaUine. 

5. Have the platter ready greased before the sirup is to be poured 
out. 

6. Do not scrape the last of the sirup from the pan, as it wiU 
appear as a hard sugary mass in the fondant. 

7. Use a minimum amount of butter with which to grease the 
platter. 

8. Wash the hands with cold water just before kneading the 
fondant. 

9. Cover the fondant with paraffin paper when putting it away to 
stand overnight. 

10. If fondant is quite soft when done, do not leave it in the ice 
box — a cupboard is better — but if quite stiff put it in the ice box 
to stand overnight and it will be easier to handle. 



Fondant may be used 


as follows : 




Creams 




Filling 


Drops 




Dates 


Walnuts 




Cherries 


BaUs 




Chocolate peppermi 


Covering 






Small fruits 




Eclairs 


Nuts 




Cake 


Fruit sections 




Hot cross buns 



pineapple 
orange 

To make Cream Drops 

I. Divide the fondant into as many parts as you wish to make 
colors. 



288 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

2. Have ready the following : 

double boiler color 

spatula flavoring 

teaspoon sheet of paraffin paper 

toothpicks spread on a perfectly 

saucepan of boiling water flat surface 

3. Place the fondant in the double boiler and allow it to heat over 
hot water until soft. With the toothpick take up a tiny bit of color 
and stir it through the softened fondant. If sufficient color has not 
been added, repeat, but remember that a Kttle color on the toothpick 
goes a long way in the fondant. 

4. Now add the flavoring, using precaution that too much is not 
added. 

5. If the fondant is stiU quite thick, add a few drops of boiling 
water and stir the whole mixture with the spatula ' only enough to 
mix the color, flavor, and water, as too much will make it " grainy." 

6. Bring the double bofler to the side of the paraffin paper and, 
using the teaspoon, allow the fondant to drop from the tip of the 
spoon on to the paper. Hold the spoon in this one position so that 
the fondant will be directed into the center of the drop and the result 
wiU be a circular candy. 

Notes : i. If the fondant piles up on the spoon, not enough hot water was 
added. 

2. If the drops are coarse-grained or rough, the fondant has been 

overcooked and over-stirred. This can sometimes be 
remedied by complete recooking as though using cane sugar. 

3. If white spots' appear in the drops on standing, the fondant was 

stirred in the double boiler too much. These are not abso- 
lutely undesirable, but the creams wiU be hard or britde. 
They are not perfect cream drops. 

4. The candies dropped on tlie paper if irregular or too thick may 

be remelted and redropped once, but more than that is 
likely to cause coarse-grained candies. 
$. Do not mix the candies to be done over with first mixture in the 
double boiler, but wait until that is used. 

' The spatula is the most convenient utensil for this purpose. The fondant 
dings to any utensil used, but is more easily removed without waste from the 
spatula than from a spoon. 



SUGAR AND CANDY 289 

To make Walnut Creams : 

1. Divide the fondant into portions by measuring with the tea- 
spoon, I tsp. to each portion. 

2. Wash and dry the wahiuts, using unbroken halves. 

3. Shape the fondant by rolling it lightly between the palms of 
the hands. 

4. Place a walnut meat on one side of the ball and arrange the 
second in a corresponding position on the other side. Press together 
slightly and the fondant will form a uniform mass between the nut 
meats. The fondant should protrude very slightly beyond the nuts. 

5. Pecans or almonds may be used in place of walnuts. 

To make Chocolate Peppermints : 

Prepare cream drops as in making Cream Drops, using peppermint 
flavoring but no color. To cover the creams, chocolate for the pur- 
pose is on the market, but unsweetened chocolate may be used. The 
latter wUl not have a glaze, but a little butter melted with the choco- 
late gives a slight glaze. 

Melt the chocolate over hot water, place the cream drops in the 
warm chocolate, and remove when well coated by using a fork. Place 
on a paraffin paper to dry. 

Care must be taken in removing from the chocolate and placing 
the creams on the paraffin, or the chocolate becomes unevenly dis- 
tributed on the creams. 

Fondant used as Covering: 

1 . When fondant is used as a covering for fruits, melt it in a double 
boiler and immerse the fruits in it. Remove to a paraffin paper to 
dry. 

2. When fondant is used as a covering for small cakes, have slightly 
more liquid than for fruits. Use cake one day old so that a fork 
can be held in it. 

Put the fork in the bottom of the cake and carefully lower it until 
the fondant comes well up on the sides of the cake. Lift the 
cake out and place, right side up, on a paraffin to dry. A little 
practice will probably be required before a perfect result will be 
obtained. 

U" 



290 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Decorate the cakes with tiny pieces of angelica, citron, candied 
fruit, nuts, rose leaves, violet leaves, or candy flowers. 

3. To cover large cakes or hot cross buns with fondant, melt it 
in a double boiler and arrange it on the cake as desired, using a spoon 
and spatula while it is stiU warm. This is the easiest process of any 
of the ways of using fondant and requires very little skill. 



Ingredients : 



Candy 
Chocolate Fudge 



2 c. sugar 
I c. milk 
-^ tsp. salt 



2 oz. chocolate 
T tbsp. butter 
1 tsp. vaniUa 



Method : 

Melt chocolate and butter, add sugar and milk and stir until sugar 
dissolves. Cook without stirring until it forms a soft ball when 
dropped in cold water. Let stand in cold water untU cool. Add 
vanilla and beat until it can be handled. JNIold, and place in buttered 
pan. 



Penoche 

Ingredients : 

1 c. brown sugar 
I c. granulated sugar 
I c. milk or cream 

rV tsp. salt 
Method: 

Proceed as for chocolate fudge. 



1 tbsp. butter 
1 c. nut meats 
1 tsp. vanilla 



Ingredients : 

1 lb. maple sugar 

2 tbsp. butter 



Maple Fudge 



^ tsp. salt 



I c. milk 
I's tsp. soda 



SUGAR AND CANDY 



291 



Method : 

Melt butter and • ugar, add soda and bring to boiling point. Add 
milk slowly, stirring constantly ; add salt. Proceed as for chocolate 
fudge. 



Ingredients: 



3 c. sugar 
I c. cream 



Karo Cream Fudge 



5 c. Karo 
f lb. figs 



I tbsp. lemon juice 



Ingredients: 



3 c. sugar 
I c. cream 



Walnut Cream Fudge 



I c. Karo 
I c. walnuts 



I tsp. vaniUa 



Victoria Fudge 

Ingredients: 

2 c. sugar J c. butter 

f c. milk I c. coconut 

i c. each cherries, figs, and pineapples 

Prepare as fudge — fruit flavoring added when cold. 



Claire Creams 

Ingredients : 

2 c. brown sugar i c. nuts 

I c. cream i c. candied cherries 

I lb. marshmaUows 
Method : 

Boil cream and sugar as fudge. Beat until creamy and add | c. 
nut meats and pour in pan. Melt marshmaUows, stirring constantly, 
and add nuts and cherries. Pour over top of fudge. 



292 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Fluff 

Ingredients : 

2 c. sugar white i egg 
^ c. water t^s tsp. salt 

5 c. nut meats or candied cherries 
Method : 

Cook sugar and water to thread stage and pour slowly on beaten 
white of egg. Add nuts and beat untU stiff enough to hold shap; 
when dropped from tip of a teaspoon on paraf&n paper or buttered 
plates. 

Turkish Nougat 

Ingredients : 

3 c. sugar 2 tbsp. corn sirup 
1 c. Karo or other corn sirup whites 3 eggs 

I c. water i c. nut meats 

Method : 

Boil sugar, water, and i c. corn sirup to hard crack. Have eggs 
beaten stiff and fold into them 2 tbsp.. sirup. Beat eggs into boiled 
mixture and pour on to oiled paper. 

Honey Puffs 

Ingredients : 

3 c. sugar I c. nuts i c. cream 

J c. honey i c. candied pineapple white i egg 

Method : 

Boil sugar and cream until it will almost spin a thread. Add J c. 
honey and cook to " soft ball " stage. Take from fire and add [ 
beaten white of egg. Beat i minute and add i c. each chopped nuts 
and candied pineapple. Beat until creamy, and form into balls. 
Place on paraffin paper. 

Molasses Candy 

Ingredients : 

3 c. brown sugar i tbsp. butter 

^ c. molasses | tsp. soda 

I c. water 2 tbsp. vanilla 



SUGAR AND CANDY 293 

Method : 

Cook all but soda and vaniUa until mixture cracks when dropped 
into cold water. Beat in soda and vanilla and pour on a buttered 
plate. Draw edges in toward center until cold enough to handle; 
pull until light and smooth. Cut into inch pieces with sharp scissors. 

Peanut Brittle 

Ingredients : 

I c. sugar 5-1 c. peanuts 

(i qt. unsheUed) 
Method : 

Melt sugar in iron pan until a light brown sirup, remove imme- 
diately, add nuts, chopped if desired, spread on an inverted tin plate 
and mark into squares when cool. 

Butterscotch 

Ingredients : 

1 c. sugar I c. Karo sirup 

1-4 tbsp. butter 
Method : 

Boil without stirring until brittle when dropped in cold water. 
Pour into shallow buttered pan and when cool mark into squares. 

Glace for Nuts and Fruits 

Ingredients : 

2 c. sugar I c. water 

5 c. vinegar 
Method : 

BoU sugar and water to the thread stage. Add vinegar and 
boil until color changes. Keep over boiling water while dipping. 
Skin of orange sections should not be broken. Cherries and grapes 
on stems should be hung on wires. 

Candied Orange Peel 

Wipe 4 oranges and remove peel in quarters. Put peel in sauce- 
pan, cover with cold water, bring to boiling point and then simmer 
until soft. Drain and scrape ofi | of the white portion. Cut in 



294 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

thin strips. Boil i c. sugar and J c. water until it spins a thread. 
Cook strips in the sirup s minutes. Drain. Roll in granulated sugar. 

Salted Almonds I 

Blanch Jordan almonds by allowing them to stand in boiling water 
until it loosens the skins. Drain, place in a shallow pan, sprinkle 
with salt and small pieces of butter. Brown in a pan in broiling 
oven, stirring frequently. Drain on paper. 

Salted Almonds II 

Ingredients : 

I pt. water i c. almonds 

5 c. salt 2 tbsp. butter or olive oil 

Method : 

Blanch almonds as described above. BoU salt and water, add 
almonds and cook 8 minutes. Drain and place them in a baking 
pan, dot over with butter and bake untU a delicate brown, stirring 
frequently. Drain on brown paper. 

References 
Sugar 

Abel. Sugar and Its Value as Food. United States Agriculture 
Department, Farmers' Bulletin No. 535 (1913). 

Blakey. The United States Sugar Beet Industry. 

Browne. Handbook of Sugar Analysis. 

Deerr. Cane Sugar Manufacture. 

Deerr. Sugar and the Sugar Cane. 

Ellis. An Introduction to the History of Sugar as a Commodity. 

Geerling. The World's Cane Sugar Industry, Past and Present. 

Sherman. Food Products. 

Snell. Maple Sap Products and the Canadian Standards. Re- 
printed from the Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry 
(1914). 

Thorpe. OutHnes of Industrial Chemistry. 

Wiley. Foods and their Adulteration. 



Ingredients : 

5 c. coffee 
2 eggs 



Ingredients : 

15 c. cocoa 
2 c. sugar 



CHAPTER XXI 

RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS ^ 

Beverages 
Boiled Coffee 



2 c. cold water 

8 qts. boiling water 



I c. cold water 



Reception Cocoa 



8 qts. milk 

I qt. boiling water 



I pt. water 



Ingredients : 



J c. tea 



Tea 



10 qts. boiling water 



Ingredients : 



4 c. sugar 
I qt. water 



Lemonade 



8 qts. water 
3 doz. lemons 



• As a rule only the Ingredients will be given in this chapter since the same Methods 
may be followed as in the preceding chapters. 

29s 



296 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Fruit Punch 

Ingredients : 

2 lbs. sugar i qt. water 

8 lemons i pt. grapejuice or tea 

6 oranges 1 pt. canned pineapple 

6 qts. water juice, or other fruit 

I pt. shredded pineapple juice 

I pt. strawberries or cherries 

Fruits 

Apple Sauce 

Ingredients : 

SO large apples 3-4 qts. water 

9 c. sugar juice 2 lemons (or 2 

grated nutmegs) 

Stewed Apricots 

Ingredients : 

4 lbs. dried apricots 4 qts. cold water 

4 c. sugar 

Stewed Prunes 
Ingredients : 

4 lbs. prunes 4 c. sugar 

4 qts. cold water juice i orange 

juice I lemon 

Baked Rhubarb 

Ingredients : 

16 lbs. rhubarb 4 qts. sugar 

Cranberry Jelly 

Ingredients : 

4 qts. cranberries 8 c. sugar 

I qt. water 



Ingredients : 

45 qts. berries 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 
Cranberry Sauce 

1 5 qts. water 



297 



6 c. sugar 



Combination of Fruits 

Ingredients: Sirup: 

1 doz. oranges 1 can Hawaiian pineapple [ 2 c. sugar 
3 lbs. grapes 6 grapefruit I 4 c. water 

2 baskets strawberries 6 bananas [ juice i lemon 



Cereals 

Cream of Wheat 

Ingredients : 

; lb. cream of wheat S tbsp. salt 

45 qts. water 



Ingredients : 

I lb. oatmeal 



Oatmeal 



4 qts. boiling water 



5 tbsp. salt 



Ingredients : 

S c. rice 



Boiled Rice 



7 qts. vaXer 



J c. salt 



Ingredients : 

S c. rice 



Steamed xlice 



if qts. water 



i c. salt 



298 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Vegetables 





Creamed 




Asparagus 


8 bunches 


4 qts. white sauce II 


Cabbage 


10 lbs. 


3 qts. white sauce II 


Carrots 


12 lbs. 


3 qts. white sauce II 


Cauliflower 


6-8 


3 qts. white sauce II 


Celery 


8 qts. cubed 


3 qts. white sauce II 


Onions 


I pk. 


3 qts. white sauce II 


Potatoes 


8 qts. cubed 


4 qts. white sauce 11 


Turnips 


12 lbs. 


3 qts. white sauce II 


Ingredients : 


Hashed Potatoes 




I pk. potatoes 




I c. butter 


I qt. mUk 




S tbsp. salt 


Ingredients : 


Stuffed Baked Potatoes 


SO potatoes 




i| tbsp. salt 


i^ c. hot mUk 


I c. butter 


2 tsp. pepper 


Ingredients : 


Potato Croquettes 




S lbs. potatoes 




i tsp. cayenne 


4 eggs 




15 tbsp. salt 


5 c. butter 




i c. chopped parsley 


juice I onion 




J c. milk 


Ingredients : 


Scalloped Potatoes 




6 qts. sliced potatoes 


i| c. butter 


2 qts. hot milk 




3 tbsp. salt 


1 c. flour 




juice I lemon 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



299 



Sweet Potato Croquettes 
Ingredients : 

5 lbs. sweet potatoes 3 c. parsley 

S eggs i| tsp. salt 

J c. butter 5 tsp. cayenne 



Ingredients : 

1 5 pks. sweet potatoes 

5 c. butter 

salt 



Glazed Sweet Potatoes 



3 c. sugar 
15 c. water 
5 tsp. pepper 



Ingredients : 

6 No. 2 cans corn 
3 qts. milk 
2 tbsp. salt 
5 tbsp. sugar 



Corn Pudding 



I tsp. pepper 



1 2 eggs — beaten sepa- 
rately 
3 qts. bread crumbs 
f c. butter 



Ingredients : 

25 large peppers 
3 qts. chopped meat 
salt 



Stuffed Peppers 



2 qts. bread crumbs 
juice 1 large onion 
pepper 



Ingredients : 

8 qts. tomatoes 
I c. butter 
§ c. sugar 



Stewed Tomatoes 



4 tbsp. salt 

5 tsp. cayenne 

4 c. bread crumbs 



50 tomatoes 
3^ tbsp. salt 
I tsp. pepper 
I c. butter 



Baked Tomatoes 



t c. sugar 
5 c. parsley 
juice 2 onions 
2 qts. bread crumbs 



300 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

SotTPS 



Cream 

Ingredients : 


Soup — 


- Celery 


8 qts. celery, cubed 




7 qts. scalded milk 


6 qts. boiling water 




2 c. butter 


2 onions 




2j c. flour 


pepper, cayenne 




S tbsp. salt 


Cream Soup - 

Ingredients : 


— Corn 


8 cans corn 




7 qts. scalded milk 


3 qts. boiling water 




2 c. butter 


2 onions 




ij c. flour 


pepper, cayenne 




S tbsp. salt 


Cream 

Ingredients : 


Soup — 


Tomato 


6 qts. canned tomatoes 




6 qts. scalded milk 


6 bay leaves 




ij c. butter 


I tsp. peppercorns 




15 c. flour 


2 onions 




I tbsp. baking soda 


1 c. sugar 


pepper 


salt 


Cream 

Ingredients: 


Soup — 


Potato 


8 lbs. potatoes 




2 c. butter 


4 onions 




li c. flour 


2 qts. boiling water 




6 tbsp. salt 


5 c. chopped parsley 




1 tbsp. celery salt 


10 qts. scalded milk 




5 tsp. cayenne 



, ,. Brown Stock Soup 

Ingredients : 

10 lbs. beef and bone 8 qts. water 

I tsp. peppercorns 12 cloves 

4 bay leaves parsley 

I c. each carrots, onion, celery, turnip 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



301 



Ingredients : 

4 qts. stock 

2 tbsp. allspice berries 



Mongole Soup 



4 bay leaves 
1 large onion 



4 qts. tomatoes 

24 cloves 

parsley 

I tsp. celery seed 



Ingredients : 

6 qts. stock 
I c. peppers 
salt 



Creole 



cayenne 



4 qts. tomatoes 

5 c. onion 
pepper 



Ingredients : 



Sauce with Mongole Soup 



c. butter 



I tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 



1 c. flour 

2 tbsp. vinegar 



Ingredients : 

15 c. butter 
5 c. horseradish 



Sauce with Creole Soup 



I c. macarom rmgs 



if c. flour 

2 tbsp. vinegar 



Ingredients : 

2 shins beef 

10 qts. cold water 

6 qts. boiling water 

2 c. carrots 

2 c. cabbage 

2 celery roots 

4 bay leaves 



Vegetable Soup 



2 c. potatoes — cooked 

separately 
2 qts. tomatoes 
J tsp. pepper 
juice 2 onions 
4 tbsp. chopped parsley 
4 tbsp. salt 



302 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 

6 qts. beef stock 

5 lb. noodles 

I c. rice or barley 



Noodle Soup 



Ingredients : 

6 qts. beef stock 
4 tbsp. salt 

Ingredients : 

I knuckle of veal 
6 qts. cold water 
I btinch of herbs 

3 tbsp. parsley 

4 qts. milk 



6 qts. boiling water 
Macaroni Soup 



Rice Soup 



Meats 



Mutton Stew 

Ingredients : 

lo lbs. shoulder of mutton 
6 qts. boiling water 

2 onions 

3 c. turnips 
3 c. carrots 

2 qts. boUing water 

^ c. butter 



Ingredients : 

13 lbs. chuck 

8 qts. boiling water 

6 c. turnips 

6 c. carrots 

2 qts. boiling water 



Beef Stew 



I tsp. cayenne 
4 tbsp. parsley 
4 tbsp. salt 



f lb. macaroni 

6 qts. boOing water 



1 lb. rice 

2I qts. boiling water 

4 tbsp. salt 

juice 2 onions 

J tsp. pepper 



4 c. flour 

4 tsp. salt 

I tsp. pepper 

5 c. chopped parsley 
3 lbs. potatoes - 

cooked separately 



2 tbsp. salt 
5 c. beef drippings 
2 onions 

7^ lbs. potatoes - 
cooked separately 



I tsp. pepper 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



303 



Ingredients : 

8 lbs. mutton from neck 
8 qts. boiling water 
I lb. barley 
I c. carrots 
I c. turnips 
I c. celery 



Scotch Stew 



1 c. onion 

1 c. flour 

5 c. drippings 

2 tbsp. salt 

I tsp. pepper 
4 tbsp. parsley 



Scalloped Meat 

Ingredients: 

25 lbs. cooked meat ground 
juice 2 onions 

1 c. parsley 

2 c. bread crumbs 
2 tsp. salt 

5 tsp. pepper 



6 lbs. raw potatoes — 
cooked and mashed 
I c. butter 
f qt. milk 
I tbsp. salt 



Ingredients : 

5 c. drippings 

1 c. flour 

Ingredients : 

12 lbs. veal 

2 lbs. salt pork 

3 tbsp. salt 

I tsp. pepper 



Gravy 



Veal Loaf 



15 qts. stock 
I tsp. salt 



6 eggs 

I c. melted butter 
3 c. crumbs 
milk to moisten 



Ingredients : 

3 qts. pea beans 
2 lbs. salt pork 

4 tbsp. salt 

I tbsp. mustard 



Meat Substitutes 
Baked Beans 



I c. molasses 

1 tsp. pepper 

2 onions 

4 tbsp. brown sugar 



304 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Cream Toast 
4 qts. medium white sauce toast 



Ingredients : 

2 doz. eggs 
I tbsp. salt 



German Toast 



toast 



i c. sugar 
1 5 qts. milk 



Ingredients : 

SO hard-cooked eggs 
15 c. minced ham 
5 c. butter 



Stuffed Eggs 



2^ tsp. salt 



3 tbsp. oil 
5 tsp. cayenne 
15 tsp. mustard 



Ingredients : 

2 lbs. macaroni 
\ c. salt 
cayenne 



Macaroni and Clteese 



2 qts. medium white 

sauce 
I lb. grated cheese 



Ingredients : 

6 c. rice 



Rice with Tomato Sauce 

boiling, salted water 



Tomato Sauce for Rice or Macaroni 

Ingredients : 

I No. 10 can tomatoes 2 c. flour 

I c. sugar 2 qts. soup stock or 

1 tbsp. salt water 

3 bay leaves i tsp. peppercorns 

2 c. fat J tsp. cloves 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



30s 



Ingredients : 

I qt. rice 
J c. salt 
7 qts. water 



Creamed Rice 



I qt. milk 
3 tbsp. sugar 
I doz. eggs 



Ingredients : 

I qt. rice 1 
3 tbsp. salt 
I c. mUk 



Rice Croquettes 



parsley 



5 c. butter 

6 eggs 
cayenne 



Ingredients : 

3 lbs. codfish 



Fish 
Creamed Codfish 

4 qts. medium white sauce 
4 qts. cold water 



Ingredients : 

4 qts. cold flaked fish 
1 qt. buttered crumbs 



Scalloped Fish 



3 qts. medium white sauce 
I onion and 6 bay leaves 
scalded in the milk 



Ingredients : 

5 cans salmon 
I c. butter 
1 c. flour 
5 c. milk 



6 eggs 



Salmon Cutlets 



S tsp. salt 
J tsp. cayenne 
5 tbsp. parsley 
juice 2 lemons 



For dipping 



sifted crumbs 



6 tbsp. water 



3o6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 

lo shad 



Baked Shad with Tomato Sauce 



J lb. salt pork 
h lb. butter 



Ingredients : 

4 qts. tomatoes 
4 bay leaves 



Sauce 



2 tsp. salt 
1 5 tsp. pepper 
I c. flour 



4 tsp. salt 
J c. butter 
1 c. flour 



Ingredients : 
i| lbs, 
6 lbs. potatoes 

5 c. butter 

Ingredients: 

6 qts. oysters 

15 c. oyster liquor 
; c. milk 



Codfish Balls 



4 eggs 

5 tsp. cayemie 
salt if needed 



Scalloped Oysters 



2 qts. buttered crumbs 

salt 

pepper 



Flour Mixtures 



Ingredients : 

2\ qts. water 

10 tbsp. lard or butter 

i\ tbsp. sugar 



Bread 



3 tbsp. salt 

25 yeast cakes 

2 c. lukewarm water 



about 8 qts. flour 



Ingredients : 

6 c. scalded milk 
6 c. water 
4 tbsp. salt 
I c. butter t 
ij c. molasses 



Graham Bread 



3 yeast cakes 
3 c. warm water 
6 c. flour 

graham or entire wheat 
flour to knead 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



307 



Nut Bread 

3 qts. chopped nuts added after first rising 



Ingredients : 

i^ qts. milk 
f c. butter 
I c. lard 
7 qts. flour 



Rolls 



2 tbsp. salt. 
I c. sugar 



1 5 yeast cakes 

3 c. lukewarm water 



Ingredients : 

I qt. rye meal 
I qt. corn meal 
I qt. graham flour 



Steamed Brown Bread 



1 1 tbsp. soda 
i| tbsp. salt 

I c. and 3 tbsp. molasses 
.^ qts. sour mUk 



Biscuits 



Ingredients : 

3 qts. flour 
1 tbsp. salt 
5 c. baking powder 

Fruit Rolls 

Ingredients : 

3 qts. flour 

8 tbsp. baking powder 

I tbsp. salt 

4-5 c. milk 

RoH out and spread with 
J c. butter 
3 c. raisins 



I qt. milk or more 
6 tbsp. butter 
6 tbsp. lard 



I c. sugar 
J c. butter or, 
f c. lard 



3 c. brown sugar 
2 tbsp. cinnamon 



Wheat MuflBns 

Ingredients : 

25 qts. flour 

65 tbsp. baking powder 

i| tbsp. salt 

ij qts. mflk 



Seggs 

f c. sugar 

10 tbsp. melted butter 



3o8 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Entire Wheat or Graham Muffins 

Ingredients : 

2 pts. white flour . S eggs 

3 pts. graham flour ij qts. milk 

6 tbsp. baking powder lo tbsp. melted butter 

if tbsp. salt 5 c. sugar 

Corn MufSns 

Ingredients : 

1 5 qts. wheat flour ij tbsp. salt 

1 1 qts. corn meal 6 eggs 

8 tbsp. baking powder ij qts. milk 

f c. sugar I c. melted butter 

Cakes 

Ginger Cake 

Ingredients : 

1 qt. molasses 4 tsp. soda 

2 c. hot water 4 tsp. ginger 

I c. melted butter 2 tsp. cinnamon 

2i qts. flour 2 tsp. salt 



Ingredients : 



Plain Cake 



2 lbs. butter 7 qts. flour 

4 lbs. sugar 14 tbsp. baking powder 

3 doz. eggs 2j-5 qts. milk 
I tbsp. salt 3 tbsp. vanilla 

White Cake 

Ingredients : 

2j c. butter 4! tbsp. baking powder 

6j c. sugar f tsp. cream of tartar 

3 c. milk ii tsp. salt 

iij c. flour 2 tsp. almond extract 
whites of 28 eggs 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



309 



Ingredients : 

4 c. butter 
8 c. sugar 
16 eggs 



Spanish Cake 



I qt. milk 



14 c. flour 

8 tbsp. baking powder 

8 tsp. cinnamon 



Ingredients : 



20 eggs 
4 c. sugar 
4 c. flour 



Sponge Cake I 



4 tsp. baking powder 

I tsp. salt 

I tbsp. vanflla 



Ingredients : 



24 eggs 
4 c. sugar 
rind 2 lemons 



Sponge Cake II 



4 c. flour 

I c. lemon juice 

I tsp. salt 



Ingredients : 

I c. butter 
3 c. sugar 
6 eggs 



Washington Cakes 



Si c. flour 

2f tbsp. baking powder 

It c. milk 



tbsp. salt 



Bake as cup cakes. Split, fiU, and cover with whipped cream. 
The cream may be colored with currant jelly. 



Ingredients : 



15 c. sugar 
I c. flour 
5 tsp. salt 



Filling for Above 



3 c. milk 

4 eggs 

f tbsp. vanilla 



3IO LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 

1 c. butter 

2 c. brown sugar 
2 eggs 

I c. molasses 
I tsp. vanilla 
if c. mOk 



Spice Cookies 



2 qts. flour 

4 tsp. baking powder 

5 nutmeg, grated 

3 tbsp. cinnamon 
2 tsp. cloves 

t tsp. salt 



Ingredients : 

5 c. and 2 tbsp. butter 
15 c. sugar 

6 eggs 

ij c. milk 
flour to roU 



Doughnuts 



2I tbsp. baking powder 
5 tsp. cinnamon 
5 tsp. nutmeg 
I tbsp. salt 
I tbsp. vanilla 



Salads 



Ingredients : 

6 heads lettuce 

2 doz. oranges 

2 cans Hawaiian pineapple 

1 lb. malaga grapes 

i lb. candied cherries 



Fruit 



1 c. English walnut 
meats 

2 c. cubed celery 
6 bananas 

I qt. mayonnaise 



Ingredients : 

4-6 yolks to I qt. oil 



Mayonnaise Dressing 



Ingredients : 

4 qts. apples 
2 qts. celery 



Waldorf 



2 c. walnut meats 
I qt. mayonnaise 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



3" 



Chicken 

Ingredients : 

5 qts. chicken (5 chickens) 
5 qts. celery 



I c. French dressing 
I qt. mayonnaise 



Ingredients : 

f c. gelatin 

I gal. tomatoes 

I onion 

2^ tbsp. salt 

25 tbsp. powdered sugar 



Tomato Jelly 



I qt. cold water 

1 c. celery 

2 c. carrots 
I bay leaf 

12 peppercorns 



12 allspice berries 



Cheese Straws for Salads 



Ingredients : 

2 qts. grated cheese 
2 qts. crumbs 
5^ c. flour 
J c. butter 



2 tsp. salt 
I tsp. pepper 
5 tsp. cayenne 
1 c. mUk 



Desserts 
Snow Pudding 



Ingredients : 

I J boxes granulated gelatin 

2 c. cold water 

2 qts. boiling water 



65 c. sugar 

2 c. lemon juice 

10 whites of eggs 



Coffee Cream 

Ingredients : 

2 boxes granulated gelatin 25 c. cold water 

4 c. sugar 2 qts. strong coffee 

35 qts. thin cream 



312 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Soft Custard 

Ingredients : 

lo yolks of eggs ij c. sugar 

I tsp. salt 2f qts. milk 

2 tsp. vanilla 



Ingredients : 

4 qts. milk 
1 6 eggs 



Cup Custard 



3 c. sugar 



2 tsp. salt 
4 tsp. vanilla 



Chocolate Custard 

Ingredients : 

Above plus 8 oz. chocolate 



Ingredients : 

4 qts. milk 
4 oz. chocolate 
I 6 egg yolks 

1 6 egg whites 



Soft Chocolate Custard 



Meringue 



2 c. sugar 
2 tsp. salt 
4 tsp. vanilla 

2 c. powdered sugar 



Ingredients : 

8 qts. milk 

2 qts. water 

3 c. rice 



Rice Pudding 



3 c. sugar 

2 pkgs. raisins 

2 tsp. salt 



Ingredients : 

1 6 qts. sliced apples 
5 qts. bread crumbs 
2 c. butter 



Scalloped Apples 



S tsp. cmnamon 

S c. sugar 

juice and rind 4 lemons 



1 c. water 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



313 



Ingredients : 

30 large apples 
30 egg whites 



Apple Snow 



5 c. powdered sugar 
juice s lemons 



Ingredients : 

3 c. tapioca 
f pk. apples 



Apple Tapioca 



3 qts. boiling water 
2 c. sugar 



Ingredients : 

S qts. mUk 
25 qts. bread 
10 oz. chocolate 



Chocolate Bread Pudding 



12 eggs 

1 tbsp. salt 

2 tbsp. vanilla 



3 c. sugar 



Ingredients : 

2 c. butter 

2 c. brown sugar 



Hard Sauce 



2 c. powdered sugar 
1 tbsp. vaniUa 



Ingredients : 

6 qts. milk 
15 c. sugar 



Junket 



6 tablets dissolved in 4 tbsp. 
cold water 



2 tbsp. vaniUa 



Ingredients : 

6 qts. milk 

2 c. sugar 

4 oz. chocolate 



Chocolate Junket 



1 c. hot water 
6 tablets dissolved in 4 tbsp. 
cold water 



ij tbsp. vanilla 



314 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 

I c. butter 

2^ c. sugar 

Seggs 

ij qts. milk 

juice and rind 2 lemons 



Steamed Pudding 



I c. flour 

4I qts. bread crumbs 

4 tbsp. baking powder 

15 tsp. salt 

I qt. raisins 



Ingredients : 

2j qts. milk 

14 eggs 

25 qts. cream 

Ingredients : 

2 qts. milk 
12 yolks 



Ingredients : 

3 lbs. sugar 



15 nutmegs (grated) 

Frozen Desserts 
Chocolate Ice Cream 



S c. sugar 

12 oz. chocolate 

45 tbsp. vanilla 

Custard Ice Cream 

4 c. sugar 
4 tbsp. vaniUa 
2 qts. cream 

Strawberry Ice Cream 

3 qts. berries 



45 qts. cream 



Ingredients : 

S qts. milk 
7 c. sugar 

Ingredients : 

5 qts. water 
rind of 6 oranges 
I qt. orange juice 



Milk Sherbet 



2 c. lemon juice 
rind of 3 lemons 



Orange Ice 



4 lbs. sugar 
rind of 6 lemons 
2 c. lemon juice 



INDEX 



Absorption of odors, 

experiments, 88-89. 
Alkaloids, 2. 
Almonds, salted, 294. 
Apples, 16-17, 52, 53. 67, 74. loo- 

baked, 16. 

in bloom, 16. 

in sirup with oatmeal, 52. 

in sirup with rice, 52. 

potato, 67. 

scalloped, 74, 312. 

scalloped with cheese, 100. 

snow, 313. 

steamed, 16. 

stewed, 17. 
, tapioca, 53, 313. 
Apple sauce, 16, 20, 296. 
Apricots, rg, 2g6. 

conserve, 41. 
Arrowroot gruel, 56. 

Ash constituents. See Food Values and 
the general discussions of the di^ 
ferent foods. 
Asparagus, 58, 74. 

Bacon, 140. 
Bacteria, 26. 
Baking powder, 180. 
Bananas, baked, 17. 
Barley gruel, 56. 
Barley water, 10. 
Batters, 189-217. 
Bavarian creams, 150. 

coffee, ISO. 

grape, 150. 

orange, 150. 
Beans, 71, loi. 

baked, 71, 77, 303. 

dried lima, 71. 



Bean loaf, loi. 
Beef. See also Meat. 

broth, 141. 

casserole, 143. 

cuts of, 127-128. 

fillet, broiled, 137. 

fillet of, 135, 136. 

Hamburg steak, 138. 

juice, 141. 

pot roast, 140. 

stew, 141. 
Beets, buttered, 64. 
Beverages, i-io, 295-296. 

classification, i. 

definition, i. 

experiments, 3-6. 

fruits suitable for, 24. 

methods of serving, 2. 

recipes, 6-10. 

references, 10. 
Biscuits, 196-197, 307. 

bran, 197. 

cheese, 197. 

corn meal, 197. 

emergency, 197. 

fruit, 197. 

general rules, 196. 

graham or entire wheat, 196. 

wheat, 196. 
Biuret reaction for protein, 85. 
Bouillon, 132. 
Bread, 189-193, 306-307. 

Boston brown, 190, 307. 

brown, 190. 

gluten, 190. 

graham, 190, igi, 243, 306. 

Indian, 243. 

nut, 190, 191, 192, 307. 

sticks, 193. 



315 



3i6 



INDEX 



Bread, toast, cream, 304. 

toast, German, 304. 

wheat, 189, 306. 
Butter. See also Milk. 

experiments, 84. 
Buttermilk. See also Milk. 

experiments, 84-85. 

uses for, 243-247. 
Butters, 23. 

Cabbage, 65-66. 

buttered, 65. 

creamed, 66. 

with ham, 66. 
Caffeine, 2. 
Caffetannic acid, 3. 
Cake, 218-227, 308-309. 

apple, dried, 245. 

apple sauce, 222. 

chocolate, 220. 

coffee, 222. 

date loaf, 221. 

fruit, 222, 245. 

general rules, 218. 

gingerbread with cheese, 103, 104. 

ginger cake, 223, 308. 

ginger cup, 224. 

Genoese, 227. 

ginger, hot water, 223. 

gold, 221. 

jelly roll, 226. 

Lady Baltimore, 220. 

mocha, 226. 

modifications, 219. 

orange loaf, 221. 

plain, 308. 

pound, 220. 

raspberry, canned, 223. 

Roxbury, 224. 

Spanish, 219, 309. 

spice, 246. 

sponge, 225, 309. 

sponge, drops, 225. 

sponge, for ornamenting, 226. 

sponge, hot water, 225. 

sponge, white, 226. 

sponge, with baking powder, 225. 

sponge, yellow, 224. 

standard, 219. 

Washington, and filling, 309. 

white, 219, 308. 



Cake, with butter, 218-224. 

without butter, 224-227. 
Candy, 286-294. 

butterscotch, 293. 

candied orange peel, 293. 

claire creams, 291. 

fluff, 292. 

fondant, 286-290. 

fudge, 290-291. 

general discussion, 284. 

glac6 for fruits and nuts, 293. 

honey puffs, 292. 

molasses, 292. 

peanut brittle, 293. 

Turkish nougat, 292. 
Canning (and preserving), 22-46. 

definitions, 33. 

experiments, 26-33. 

fruits, for, 22. 

general directions, 34. 

references, 45-46. 

score cards, 45. 

vegetables for, 22. 
Caramel, 90. 
Carrots, 59, 60, 65. 
Cereals, 47-57, 297. 

consistency of, 48. 

cooking of, 48, 51. 

cream of wheat, 297. 

experiments, 49-51. 

general discussion, 47-48. 

general rules, 51. 

, oatmeal, 297. 

purchasing, 48. 

reasons for cooking, 48. 

references, 56-57. 

rice, boiled, 297. 

rice, steamed, 297. 

serving, 48. 

tabular summary for cooking, 5 1 . 

variations in serving, 48. 

with fruits, combinations of, 52. 
Charlottes, 151, 

caramel, 151. 

chocolate, 151. 

coffee, 151. 

orange, 151. 

Russe, 151. 

strawberry, 151. 
Cheese, 95-105, 115, 120, 208. 

food values, 104-105. 



INDEX 



317 



Cheese, general discussion, 95-96. 
recipes, 96-104. 

apples scalloped with, 100. 

balls, 103. 

bean loaf, loi. 

cake, 99. 

corn, tomato and, 102. 

croquettes, 120. 

custard, 100. 

eggs with, g6. 

fondue, 97. 

gingerbread, 103, 104. 

Italian rice, 102. 

lima bean loaf, loi. 

loaf, loi. 

macaroni baked with, 208. 

nut loaf, loi. 

omelet, 98. 

red bunny, 99. 

rice, ItaUan, 102. 

soufH^, 115. 

souffl6 with pastry, 100. 

soup, vegetable and, loi. 

soup, 100. 

spinach loaf, 102. 

straws, 103, 311. 

tomato and corn, 102. 

Turkish pilaf, 102. 

Welsh rarebit, 98, 99. 
Cherry and pineapple preserve, 42. 
Cherry conserve, 42. 
Chicken, 133, 154-157. 
a la King, r57. 
casserole, 156. 
creamed, 156. 
Creole, 157. 
fricassee, 155. 
fried, 155. 
gravy, 155. 
Maryland, 156. 
pie, 156. 
roast, 154. 
sauce, 156. 
soup, 133. 

stuffing for roast, 155. 
Chili sauce, 43. 
Chocolate, 8. 
Citric add, \i. 
Clams, 166-167. 
broth, 167. 
chowder, 167. 



Clams, steamed, 166. 
Cocoa, 7, 295. 
Codfish, creamed, 162. 
Coffee, 7, 295. 
Comforts, 201. 
Conserves, 23, 41-42. 

apricot, 41. 

cherry, 42. 

grape, 42. 

plum, 42. 

rhubarb, 41. 
Consomm^, 132. 
Cookies, 209-215. 

Boston, 211. 

Brownies, chocolate, 215. 

chocolate, 214. 

chocolate chips, 215. 

chocolate wafers, 210. 

classification, 209-210. 

fairy gingerbread, 215. 

general rules, 210. 

ginger snaps, 213. 

hermits, 214. 

Margarets, 211. 

meringues, 212. 

meringues, date, 212. 

molasses, 213, 246, 247. 

molasses drop, 212. 

nut, 215. 

oatmeal, 211. 

orange circles, 213. 

peanut, 212. 

sponge drops, 213. 

sugar, 214, 246. 

thin, 214. 

vanilla, 214. 
Corn meal gruel, 56. 
Corn pudding, 65. 
Cornstarch pudding, 53. 
Cottage cheese, 87. 
Crabapples, baked, 17. 
Crabs, 170-171. 

devilled, 170. 

soft-shelled, 171. 
Cranberry, 

jelly, 18, 296. 

sauce, 18, 297. 

spiced, 18. 
Cream, 

experiments, 83-84. 

uses for sour, 244, 246, 247. 



3i8 



INDEX 



Creamed vegetables, 73. 298- 
Cream filling for eclairs, 207. 
Cream of wheat, 297. 
Cream puffs, 206, 207. 
Cream soups, 74-75, 300. 

asparagus, 74. 

celery, 73, 300. 

chicken, 75. 

string bean, 7S. 

tomato, 75, 300. 
Croquettes, 118-121. 

beef and rice, 121. 

cheese, 120. 

chicken, r20. 

crumbs for, 118. 

eggs for, 118. 

fats for frying, 119. 

niit and raisin, 120. 

potato, 119. 

recipes, 119-121. 

rice, 119. 

score card, 121. 

veal or lamb, i2r. 
Crumbs for scalloped dishes, 73. 
Cucumber pickles, 44. 
Custard, 89-91, 100, 312. 

baked, go, 312. 

caramel, 90. 

cheese, 100. 

chocolate, 91, 312. 

floating island, 91. 

general rules, 89. 

rice or tapioca, 91. 

soft, 89, 312. 

steamed, 90. 

tapioca or rice, 91. 

Dates, oatmeal with, 52. 

Desserts, 53-55, 311-314. See also under 

the name of each. 
Doughnuts, 201, 247, 310. 
Doughs, 189-217. 
Drying, fruits for, 24. 

Eclairs, 207. 

Eggs, 96, 107-113, 237. 

experiments, 107-109. 

food value, 113. 

general discussion, 107. 

preserving, 107, 112. 

recipes, 109-112, 237. 



Eggs, recipes, k la goldenrod, 112. 

coddled, no. 

foamy omelet, in. 

French omelet, in. 

hard-cooked, 109. 

in-nest, in. 

omelets, no. 

poached, no. 

scrambled, no. 

scrambled with tomato sauce, 112. 

shirred or baked, no. 

soft-cooked, 109. 

stuffed, 304. 

with cheese, 96. 

with grape juice, 9. 

references, 122. 
Egg plant, 71. 
EscaUoped. See Scalloped. 
Experiments, 3-6, 13-15, 26-33, 49-Si, 
60-64, 83-89, 107-109, 116-118, 
125-126, 147-148, 172-179, 180- 
185, 260-261, 270-271, 285-286. 
See also under the different foods. 

Farinaceous desserts, 53-55, 312—313. 

apple tapioca, 53, 313. 

baked Indian, 54. 

coffee sago, 54. 

cornstarch pudding, 53. 

orange, 55. 

rice, 55, 312. 

shredded wheat, 55. 
Fat, experiments with deep fat frying, 
116-118. 

See also Food Values and the general 
discussions of the individual 
foods. 
Fehling-Benedict solution, 13. 
Fifty servings, recipes for, 

beverages, 295-296. 

breads, 306-307. 

cakes, 308-309. 

cereals, 297. 

cheese straws, 311. 

cookies, 310. 

desserts, 311-314. 

doughnuts, 310. 

fish, 305-306. 

frozen desserts, 314. 

fruits, 296-297. 

mayoimaise dressing, 310. 



INDEX 



319 



Fifty servings, recipes for, meats, 302-303 . 

meat substitutes, 303-305. 

muffins, 307-308. 

oysters, scalloped, 306. 

salads, 310-311. 

soups, 300-302. 

vegetables, 298-299. 
Fillings for cake, 220, 223, 233-234. 

chocolate, 223, 233. 

cream, 233. 

fig and fruit, 234. 

Lady Baltimore, 220. 

lemon, 233. 

orange, 233. 
Fish, 158-165, 171, 305-306. 

baked, stuffed, 160, 306. 

boiled, 160. 

boning, 159. 

broiled, 160. 

chowder, 162. 

cleaning, 159. 

codfish balls, 306. 

cooking, 159, 161. 

creamed cod, 305. 

food value, 165. 

general discussion, 158-159. 

recipes, 160-162, 305-306. See also 
under name of each dish. 

references, 171. 

salmon cutlets, 305. 

sauces, 159, 163-164. 

scalloped, 162, 305. 

steamed, 160. 

stuffing for, 160. 

vegetables suitable for serving with, 
IS9- 
Fish balls, 161. 
Flounder, turbans of, 161. 
Flour mixtures, 172-247, 266-267. 

classification, 185-187. 

experiments, 172-185. 

food values, 198, 205, 217, 229, 230. 

general discussion, 172. 

oven temperatures, 187. 

pastry, 234-242. 

recipes, 189-195, 196-204, 206-215, 
218-227, 235-240, 243-247, 266- 
267. 

references, 187-188. 

score cards, 195, 196, 197, 205, 216, 
227, 228, 241, 242. 



Flour mixtures, steamed, 266-267. 

using sour milk, buttermilk, sour 
cream, 243-247. 
Food values, 20, 77-79, 92, 104-105, 113, 
165, 198, 205, 217, 229-230, 259, 
263-264, 283. 

apple sauce, 20. 

beans, baked, 77. 

biscuits, 198. 

boiled dressing, 264. 

cake, chocolate, 229. 

cake, sponge, 230. 

creamed codfish on toast, 165. 

cream soups, 78—79. 

custard, baked, 92. 

egg, scrambled, 113. 

French dressing, 264. 

gingerbread, 229. 

hermits, 217. 

ice cream, 283. 

macaroni and cheese, 104. 

mayonnaise dressing, 263. 

molasses cookies, 217. 

muffins, 205. 

potatoes, creamed, 78. 

prunes, stewed, 20. 

rice pudding with eggs, 92. 

rice with cheese and tomatoes, 105. 

salads, 259. 

sandwich, 259. 

sherbet, milk, 283. 
Fritters, 200-201. 
Frostings, 226, 227, 230-232. 

caramel, 231. 

chocolate, 230, 231, 232. 

cocoa, 232. 

coffee, 232. 

confectioners', 231. 

cooked, 230-231. 

fudge, 231. 

glaze, 227. 

maple, 231.. 

mocha, 232. 

mocha for sponge cake, 226. 

orange, 232. 

White Mountain, 230. 
Frozen mixtures, 269-283. 

binders, 272. 

classification, 273. 

experiments, 270-271. 

fillers, 272. 



320 



INDEX 



Frozen mixtures, food values, 283. 

general discussion, 269-270. 

ice cream powders, 272. 

recipes, 274-281. 

references, 283. 

score cards, 282. 
Fruits, ±, 11-21, 52, 296, 297. 

adds of, 2. 

apple sauce, 296. 

apricots stewed, 296. 

chemical composition, 1 1. 

combinations of, with cereals, 52, 
297. 

cooking, reasons for, 12. 

cranberry jelly, 296. 

dietetic value, 11. 

dried, general rules, 18. 

experiments, 13-15. 

food values, 20. 

general classes, 11, 22-24. 

general rules for preparation, 12. 

preservation, 22, 25, $5. See also 
Canning. 

purchasing, 12. 

recipes, 16-19. 

references, 20-21. 

rhubarb, baked, 296. 

score cards for preserved fruits, 
45- 

Gelatin, 124, I46-I5r. 

as protein food, 124. 

culture media, 28. 

experiments, 147-148. 

general discussion, 146-147. 

recipes, 148-151. 

score cards, 151. 
Gingerbread, 103, 104, 223, 247. 
Grape, conserve, 42. 

juice, I, 9, 38. 

spiced, 40. 
Grapefruit marmalade, 39. See also 

Fruits. 
Gravy, 136, 153. 
Griddlecakes, 198-199. 

com meal, 199. 

general rules, 199. 

sour milk, 198. 

sweet milk, 198. 

wheat, 198. 
Gruels, 56. 



Haddock, planked, 161. 
Hash, browned, 142. 
Honey (so called), 23. 

Ice creams, 274-276, 280. 

baked Alaska, 280. 

caramel, 275. 

chocolate, 276, 314. 

coffee, 276. 

frozen custard, 274-275, 314. 

lacto, 276. 

molds, 280. 

prune, 275. 

strawberry, 274, 314. 

vanilla, 274. 
Ices, 277-279. 

apricot, 278. 

ciurant, 278. 

currant and raspberry, 278. 

ginger, 279. 

grape juice, 278. 

lemon, 277. 

mint, 279. 

orange, 277. 

peach, 278. 

pineapple, 278. 

raspberry, 278. 

strawberry, 278. 
Iodine test for starch, 13. 

Jam, 23. 

Jellies with gelatin, 148-149. 

coffee, 149. 

fruit, 149. 

lemon, 149. 

orange, 149. 

prune, 149. 

wine, 149. 
Jelly making, 14, 18, 23, 32, 35-36, 

39- 
Junket, 86, 313. 

Lamb. See Meat. 

Lamb chops, 137. 

Lead acetate solution, 3. 

Leavens — Leavening agents, 179. 

Lemonade, i, 9, 295. 

Lemon whey, 8. 

Lobster, 169-170. 

general directions, 169. 

Newburg, 170. 



INDEX 



321 



Macaroni, 207-209, 304. 

baked with cheese, 208, 304. 

boiled, 207. 

cheese and tomato sauce, 209. 

Italian style, 208. 
Macaroons, 130. 
Malic add, 2. 
Marmalades, 33, 39. 

grapefruit, 39. 

yellow tomato, 39. 
Meat, 123-152, 302, 303. 

beef, 135-143. 

broiling, 137. 

cakes, 142. 

casserole, 143. 

cuts of beef, 127-128. 

cuts of lamb, 130. 

cuts of mutton, 130. 

cuts of pork, 131. 

cuts of veal, 129. 

experiments, i2S-r26. 

general discussion, 123-124. 

hash, browned, 142. 

lamb chops, 137. 

left-over, 142-144. 

mutton chops, broiling, 137. 

recipes, 135-144. 

references, 151-152. 

roasting, 135. 

rules for tender cuts, 135-140. 

rules for tough cuts, 140-144. 

sauces, 144-146. 

score card, 146. 

table for roasting, 135. 

veal casserole, 143. 
Meringues, 212. 
Microorganisms, 25. 
Milk, 82-94. 

experiments, 83-89. 

food values, 92. 

general discussion, 82-83. 

recipes, 89-92. 

references, 93-94. 

sour, recipes using, 243-247. 
Millon test for protein, 13. 
Mineral matter. See Food Values and 
the general discussions of the dif- 
ferent foods. 
Molds, 25-26. 
Mousses, 280-281. 

chocolate, 281. 



Mousses, coflfee, 280. 

fruit, 281. 

grape juice, 281. 

strawberry, 281. 
Muffins, Berkshire, 203. 

blueberry, 204. 

bran, 203. 

bran with corn, 203. 

com meal, 202, 244, 307. 

entire wheat, 202. 

for fifty servings, 307, 308. 

general rules, 202. 

graham, 202, 308. 
• hominy, 203. 

one egg, 202. 

rice, 203. 

southern pone, 204. 

southern spoon com bread, 204. 

wheat, 202, 307. 
Mutton. See Meat. 
Mutton chops, 137. 

Noodles, 208. 

Nutritive value of cooked foods, 19. 
See also Food Values. ^ 

Oatmeal, 297. 

apples in simp with, 52. 

gruel, 56. 

water, 9. 

with dates, 52. 
Oils, experiments, 260-261. 
Olives, 159, 256-257. 
Omelets, iio-iii, 98. 
- cheese, 98. 

foamy, iii. 

French, 111. 
Onions, 59. 
Orangeade, 1. 

Oven temperature, 175, 187. 
Oysters, 168-169. 

broth, 168. 

cocktail, 168. 

fricassee, i6g. 

fried, 168. 

" pigs-in-blankets,'' 169. 

stew, 168. 

Pan-broiling, 137, 138. 
Parfaits, 281. 



322 



INDEX 



Parfaits, golden, 281. 

silver, 281. 
Parsnips, 58. 
Pastes, flour, 207-208. 

plain, 235. 

puff, 235. 
Pastry, 235-240. 

Banbury filling, 237. 

Banbiuy tarts, 236. 

cheese straws, 236. 

meringue, 237. 

patties, 236. 

tarts and turnovers, 240. 
Peaches, 37. 
Pears, 17, 40. 
Peas, 65. 
Pectin, 12, 14. 
Peppers, 

pickled, 44. 

stuffed, 69, 299. 
Pickles, 43-44. 

cucumber, 44. 

mustard, 43. 

red pepper, 44. 

sweet, 43. 

tomato, 44. 
Pickling, 24, 43-44. 

fruits suitable for, 24. 

recipes, 43-44. 

vegetables suitable for, 24. 
Pie, 237-240. 

apple, 239. 

chocolate, 237. 

coconut, 237. 

cream, 237. 

custard 238. 

green tomato mince, 240. 

lemon, 237. 

mince, 239. 

mock cherry, 238. 

pumpkin, 238. 

sour cream, 238. 
Popovers, 206. 
Pork. See Meat. 
Potassium acid tartrate, 2. 
Potato, 66-68, 298. 

apples, 67. 

mashed, 298. 

puff, 67. 

souffle, 67. 

stufied, baked, 66. 



Potato, sweet, glazed, 68. 

sweet, puff, 67. 
Poultry, 153-157. See also Chicken. 

boning, 154. 

cleaning and dressing, 153-154. 

general discussion, 153. 

recipes, 154-157. 

trussing, 154. 
Preserves, 22-46. 

definition, zs- 

experiments, 26-33. 

fruits, suitable for, 22. 

general directions for, 34. 

recipes, 39-42. 

references, 45-46. 

score card, 45. 

utensils necessary for, 33. 
Preserving, 22-46. See also Canning. 
Protein. See Experiments, Food Values, 
and the general discussions of the 
different foods. 
Prunes, stewed, 296. 

Puddings, 53-55, 65, 91-92, 244, 266- 
267, 279-280, 311-314. 

apple tapioca, 53, 313. 

baked Indian, 54. 

bread, 91. 

chocolate bread, 92, 313. 

chocolate custard, 312. 

coffee cream, 311. 

coffee sago, 54. 

corn, 65, 299. 

cornstarch, 53. 

cup custard, 312. 

date, 266. 

fig, 267. 

frozen, 279. 

fruit, 267. 

graham, 244. 

hard sauce, 313. 

Hunter's, 267. 

junket, 313. 

junket, chocolate, 313. 

meringue, 313. 

Nessebxide, 279. 

Nesselrode, sauce for, 280. 

orange, 55. 

plum, 244, 267. 

queen of, 92. 

rice, 91, 312. 

shredded wheat, 55. 



INDEX 



323 



Puddings, snow, 150, 311. 

snow balls, 267. 

soft chocolate custard, 312. 

soft custard, 312. 

steamed, 314. 

steamed Indian, 266. 

tapioca, 91. 
Pudding sauces, 268-269, 274, 280. 

classification, 268. 

chocolate, 274. 

cream, 269. 

hard, 268. 

lemon, 268. 

Nesselrode pudding, 280. 

Sabayon, 269, 

sterling, 268. 

vanilla, 269. 
Punch, fruit, 296. 
Purees, 76-77. 

black bean, 77. 

com, 75, 76. 

pea, 76. 

potato, 76. 

Quinces, baked, 17. 

Rarebit, Welsh, 98, 99. 
Raspberry vinegar, 38. 
References, 10, 20-21, 45—46, 56-57, 80- 
81, 93-94, 105-106, 122, 151-152, 
171, 187-188, 264-265, 283, 294. 

beverages, 10. 

butter, 94. 

canning and preserving, 45-46. 

cereals, 56-57. 

cheese, 105-106. 

eggs, 122. 

fish and shellfish, 171. 

flour and bread, 187-188. 

fruits, 20-21. 

ice cream, 283. 

meat, 151-152. 

milk, 93-94. 

oils, 264-265. 

soups, 81. 

sugar, 294. 

vegetables, 80. 
Rhubarb, baked, 296. 
Rice, 47-52, 55, 91-92, 105, 143, 297. 

experiments, 49. 

creamed, 305. 



Rice, in sirup with apples, 52. 

methods of preparation, 51, 52, 91, 92, 
I43> 297, 302, 304, 305. 

with cheese and tomatoes, 105. 
Roasting, 135. 
Rolls, 192-195, 307. 

Dorcas, 192. 

glaze for, 195. 

hot cross buns, 194. 

luncheon, 194. 

Parker House, 192. 

Swedish, 193. 
Royal scallop, 144. 

Salads, 248-255, 261-263, 310-311. 

accessories served with, 251. 

combinations, 252, 253, 254. 

dressings, 249, 261-263. 

food value, 259. 

foundation, 248-249. 

general discussion, 248. 

greens, 248, 251. 

variations in dressing, 249-250. 

when served, 250-251. 
Salad dressings, 261-263. 

boiled, 262. 

cream, 262. 

French, 261, 262. 

mayonnaise, 263. 

Spanish, 262. 
Salmon. See Fish. 
Sandwiches, 255-259. 

conveyor of filling, 255-256. 

fancy, 258. 

fillings, 256-257. 

food value, 259. 

general rules, 255. 
Sauce, 144-146, 163-164, 268-269, 274, 
280, 304. 

Bechamel, 163. 

brown, 144. 

brown mushroom, 145. 

chocolate, 274. 

classification, 268. 

cream, 269. 

Cuban, 145. 

drawn butter, 163. 

egg, 163. 

hard, 268. 

HoUandaise, 164. 

horseradish, 146. 



324 



INDEX 



Sauce, lemon, 268. 

Maitre d'H6tel butter, 164. 

mock Hollandaise, 164. 

mushroom, 145. 

Nesselrode, 280. 

tartare, 164. 

tomato, for rice or macaroni, 304. 

Sabayon, 26g. 

Spanish, 146. 

sterling, 268. 

vanilla, 26g. 
Scalloped dishes, 73-74, 144, 303. 

apples, 74. 

crumbs for, 73. 

general rules, 73. 

meat, 303. 

oysters, 306. 

royal, 144. 

tomatoes, 74. 

vegetables, 73. 
Score cards, 45, 121, 146, 151, 1Q5-197, 
205, 216, 227-228, 241-242, 282. 

biscuits, iq6, 197. 

bread, 195. 

canned fruits, 45. 

cookies, 216. 

croquettes, 121. 

custard ice cream, 282. 

gelatin desserts, 151. 

layer cake, 228. 

loaf cake, 227. 

meat roast, 146. 

muffins, 205. 

Philadelphia ice cream, 282. 

pies, 241, 242. 

preserves, 43. 

sherbets and ices, 282. 

sponge cake, 228. 
Shad roe, 161. 
Shellfish, 165-171. 
Sherbets, 276-277. 

combination, 277. 

milk, 276. 
orange, 277. 
pineapple, 277. 
Smelts, 161. 
Soda (sodimn bicarbonate), 86, 180, 

181. 
Souffles, 67, 69, loo, 113-115. 
cheese, 115. 
cheese, com and, 113. 



Souffles, cheese, with pastry, 100. 

custard, 114. 

essentials for, 113. 

fruit, 114. 

lamb, 144. 

lemon, 114. 

meat, 115. 

potato, 67. 

squash, 6g. 

varieties, 114. 

vegetable, 115. 
Soups, loo-ioi, 132-134. {See also 
Cream, and Purees.) 

brown stock, 133, 300. 

chicken, 133. 

cream of celery, 73, 300. 

cream of com, 300. 

cream of potato, 300. 

cream of tomato, 75, 300. 

Creole, 134, 301. 

general discussion, 132. 

macaroni, 302. 

meat left from, 132-133. 

milk and cheese, 100. 

Mongole, 134, 301. 

noodle, 302. 

rice, 302. 

stock classification, 132. 

to clear stock, 133. 

uses for stock, 132. 

vegetable, 134, 301. 

vegetable and cheese, loi. 
Spaghetti, 207, 209. 

boiled, 207. 

loaf, 2og. 
Spanish cream, 130. 

macaroon, 130. 

plain, 130. 
Spinach. See Vegetables. 
Sponges, gelatin, 149. 

chocolate, 149. 

pineapple, 149. 
Squash, 69-70. 
baked summer, 70. 
souffle, 69. 
winter, 69. 
Starch. See Experiments. 
Steak, stuffed flank, 144. 
Stuffing, 
for chicken, 133. 
for fish, 160. 



INDEX 



325 



Stuffing, for flank steak, 136. 
Sugar, 34, 285-290. 

canning with, 34. 

canning without, 34. 

experiments, 285-286. 

fondant, 286-287. 

uses, 287-290. 

Sweetbreads, 139, 140. 

broiled, 139. 

creamed,J40. 
Sweet potatoes, 67, 68, 299. 

Tannin, 3. 

Tartrate, potassium acid, z. 

Tea, 1-4, 6-7, 295. 

experiments, 3-4. 

recipes, 6-7, 295. 
Temperatures. See Experiments, 

Oven Temperature. 
Theine, .£. 
Theobromine, 2. 
Timbale cases, 199-200. 
Tomatoes, 37, 38, 44, 74, 299. 

canned, 37. 

marmalade, 39. 

pickled, 44. 

scalloped, 74. 

stewed, 299. 

Veal. See Meat. 
Veal en Casserole, 143. 



and 



Veal loaf, 303. 

Vegetables, 22, 24, 58-73, loi, 159, 298, 
299. 

classification, 58-59. 

creamed, 73. 

en Casserole, 70. 

experiments, 60-64. 

general discussion, 58. 

general rules for cooking, 60. 

methods of preservation,' 22. 

points to emphasize, '59. 

reasons for cooking, 59. 

scalloped, 73. 

suitable for canning, 24, 

suitable for pickling, 24. 

suitable with fish, 159. 

ways of serving, 60. 
Volatile oils, 3. 

Waflies, 198-199. 

corn meal, 199. 

general rules, 199. 

sour milk, 198. 

sweet milk, 198. 

wheat, 198. 
Welsh rarebit, 98, 99. 
Whey, lemon, 8. 

Xanthoproteic reaction for proteins, 85. 

Yeasts, 26. 



Printed in the United States of America. 



*HE following pages contain advertisements of a 
few of the Macmillan books on kindred subjects 



A Laboratory Hand-book for Dietetics 

By MARY SWARTZ ROSE, Ph.D. 

Assistant Professor, Department of Nutrition, Teachers College, Columbia University 

Cloth, 8vo, $j./o 

Investigations into the quantitative requirements of the human body have progressed so 
far as to make dietetics to a certain extent an exact science, and to emphasize the importance 
of a quantitative study of food materials. This little book explains the problems involved in 
the calculation of food values and food reciuirements, and the construction of dietaries, and 
furnishes reference tables which will minimize the labor involved in such work without limiting 
dietary study to a few food materials. 

Only brief statements of the conditions affecting food requirements have been made, the 
reader being referred to general textbooks on the subject of nutrition for fuller information, 
but such data have been included as seem most useful in determining the amount of food foi 
any normai individual under varying conditions of age and activity. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Part I 
Food Values and Food Requirements. 

The Composition of Food Materials. 
The Functions of Food. 

Food as a Source of Energy. 
• Food as Building Material. 
Food in the Regulation of Body Processes. 
Food Requirement. 

The Energy Requirement of Normal Adults, 
The Energy Requirement of Children. 
The Energy Requirement of the Aged. 
The Protein Requirement. 
The Fat and Carbohydrate Requirement. 
The Ash Requirement. 

Part II 
Problems in Dietary Calculations. 

Studies in Weight, Measure, and Cost of Some Common Food Materials. 

Relation between Percentage Composition and Weight. 

Calulation of the Fuel Value of a Single Food Material. 

Calculation of the Weight of a Standard or loo-Calorie Portion. 

Food Value of a Combination of Food Materials. 

Distribution of Foodstuffs in a Standard Portion of a Single Food Material. 

Calculation of a Standard Portion of a Combination of Food Materials. 

Analysis of a Recipe, 

Modification of Cow's Milk to a Required Formula. 

Calculation of the Percentage Composition of a Food Mixture. 

The Calculation of a Complete Dietary, 

Scoring of the Dietary. 

Reference Tables. 

Refuse in Food Materials. 

Conversion Tables — Grams to Ounces. 

Conversion Tables — Ounces to Grams. 

Conversion Tables — Pounds to Grams. 

Food Values in Teitns of Standard Units of Weight. 

Ash Constituents in Percentages of the Edible Portion. 

Ash Constituents in Standard or loo-Calorie Portions. 

Appendix 
The Equipment of a Dietetics Laboratory. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York 



Food Products 



By henry C. SHERMAN 
Professor of Food Chemistry in Columbia University 

Illustrated^ doth, i2mo, jg4 pages, $2.3J 

A comprehensive, descriptive text-book on the gen- 
eral subject of foods. The first and second chapters 
deal with the principal constituents and functions of 
food and with food legislation ; then follow chapters 
on : Milk ; Cheese and Other Milk Products ; Eggs, 
Meats and Meat Products ; Poultry, Fish and Shell- 
fish ; Grain Products ; Vegetables, Fruits and Nuts ; 
Edible Fats and Oils; Sugar, Molasses, Sirups and 
Confectionery ; and Food Adjuncts. The plan of 
the book makes it easy for the teacher to follow a 
different order of topics if desired. 



" Admirable." — Science. 

" A really excellent text-book." 

— Educational Review. 

" A valuable contribution to the literature of foods 
as well as a scientific presentation of many new facts 
regarding food values." — Itisurancc. 

" A scientific study of great value." 

— JVcw York Times. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York 



By henry C. SHERMAN, Ph.D. 

Professor in Columbia University 

Chemistry of Food and Nutrition 

Cloth, i2mo, via + 3S5 pages, $1.50 

The purpose of this volume is to present the principles oi 
the chemistry of food and nutrition with special reference to 
the food requirements of man and the considerations which 
should underlie our judgment of the nutritive values of food. 
The food is here considered chiefly in its nutritive relations. 
It is hoped that the more detailed description of individual 
foods and the chemical and legal control of the food indus- 
try may be treated in a companion volume later. 

The present work is the outgrowth of several years' experi- 
ence in teaching the subject to collegiate and technical 
students who have represented a considerable diversity of 
previous training and points of view, and, while published 
primarily to meet the needs of the author's classes, it is 
hoped that it may also be of service to students and teachers 
elsewhere and to general readers whose main interest may 
lie in other fields, but who appreciate the importance of food 
and nutrition as factors in hygiene and preventive medicine. 

While neither the size nor the purpose of this book would 
permit an historical or technically critical treatment, a limited 
number of historical investigations and controverted views 
have been mentioned in order to give an idea of the nature 
and validity of the evidence on which our present beliefs 
are based, and in some cases to put the reader on his guard 
against theories which, while now outgrown, are still some- 
times encountered. 

PUBLISHED BY 

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

64-66 Fifth Avenue, New York 



Household Bacteriology 



ESTELLE D. BUCHANAN, M.S. 

Recently Assistant Professor of Botany, Iowa State College 



ROBERT EARLE BUCHANAN, Ph.D. 

Professor of Bacteriology, Iowa State College, and Bacteriologist of the 
Iowa Agricultural Experiment Station 

Cloth, 8vo, XV+S36 pp., index, $2.25 

The word Household is used as an extension rather than a limitation of the 
title. In a thoroughly scientific manner the authors treat the subject-matter 
of general as well as of household bacteriology and include, therefore, the 
true bacteria as well as the yeasts, molds, and protozoa. The volume is, 
therefore, a general textbook of micro-biology in which special attention is 
given to those problems which are of particular interest to the student of 
household science. The main divisions of the book treat (l) the micro- 
organisms themselves, (2) fermentations with special reference to those 
affecting foods, (3) the relations of bacteria and other micro-organisms to 
health. A fully illustrated key (comprising 37 pages) to the families and 
genera of common molds supplements the unusually extended discussion of 
the morphology and classification of yeasts and molds, and makes possible 
the satisfactory identification of all forms ordinarily encountered by the 
student. The work embodies the results of the most recent researches. The 
book is exceptionally well written, the different topics are treated con- 
sistently and with a good sense of proportion. While concise in statement, it 
is thorough in method and scope. It is, therefore, well adapted for use as a 
text not only for students of household science, but also for those to whom it is 
desired to present the science of bacteriology from an economic and sanitary 
rather than from a strictly medical point of view, 

"The book is a concisely written work on micro-biology, a branch of 
economic science that the public is beginning gradually to understand, has 
important relationship to the total welfare and prosperity of the community. 
. . The manual can be recommended as a very good elementary bacteri- 
ology. It comprises about all there is of practical domestic value." 

— Boston Advertiser. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Fuhlishera 64-66 Fifth Avenue New Tork 



Textiles 

A Handbook for the Student and the Consumer 



BY 



MARY SCHENCK WOOLMAN, B.S. 

President of the Women's Educational and Industrial Union, Boston, acting head 

of the Department of Household Economics, Simmons College, recently 

Professor of Domestic Art in Teachers College 



ELLEN BEERS McGOWAN, B.S. 

Instructor in Household Arts in Teachers College, Columbia University 
Illustrated, Cloth, i2mo, xi\428 pp.. Index, Bibliography, $2.oo 

This book is the result of twenty years' experience in teaching textiles to 
college students. It is intended as a textbook for college classes or for study 
clubs and as a guide for the housekeeper or individual consumer of textiles 
and clothing, the teacher, the club vvoman, the saleswoman, and as an intro- 
ductory survey of the subject for the student who contemplates professional 
work in the textile industries. 

The growing emphasis upon textile study in college departments of home 
economics or household arts, and the increasing use of the textile industry as 
teaching material in other departments and other grades of schools, shows a 
recognition of the part that the textiles are playing in the development of 
civilization and in our everyday life. Interest in the subject is still further 
accentuated by the movements now on foot to regulate the social-economic 
conditions in the textile and clothing indu':tries and to secure standardization 
and honest labeling of textile products, as is being done for food products by 
the " pure food laws." 

To meet the existing need the authors have attempted to prepare a text 
suitable for use in college classes or by the public, shorter and more readable 
than the technical handbooks, yet sufficiently thorough and comprehensive to 
give a sound grasp of the subject as a whole with so much of the technology 
as is directly helpful to the consumer .ind as should be included in general 
courses in colleges and technical or vocational schools. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

JuWishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York 



Physics of the Household 

By C. J. LYNDE 

Professor of Physics in Macdonald College, Canada 

Illustrated, izmo, %i.23 

This book presents in an exceptionally clear and direct manner the 
subject matter of a concise yet sufficiently comprehensive course for those 
beginning the study of physics whether in the college, the technical insti- 
tute, or the secondary school. The principles are made clear by applica- 
tion to household affairs and other every-day experiences. Although 
adapted to the requirements of beginners, those who have previously 
studied physics will also welcome the concise review of principles and the 
many applications and illustrations. In addition to its merits as a text- 
book, it constitutes a most interesting and useful manual on household 
appliances and processes. Any one who is interested either in knowing 
just how the familiar appliances work, or in equipping a house according 
to the most modern methods, will find in Professor Lynde's book a wealth 
of stimulating and highly practical information. 



Elementary Household Chemistry 
By J. F. SNELL 

Professor of Chemistry in Macdonald College, Canada 

Illustrated, i2mo, S/.25 

In this textbook are to be found many new features both in the selec- 
tion and in the presentation of its subject matter. The principles of 
chemistry are developed and their every-day applications are studied 
simultaneously. The book is the outgrowth of a course given by the 
author for the last six years to students of high school and college age, but 
of varying degrees of preliminary training. The course has, therefore, 
been simple and the aim has been to introduce onlv such principles as 
find immediate application in connection with household work, but to 
present these principles in a correct and truly scientific manner. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York 



A LABORATORY MANUAL OF 
FOODS AND COOKERY 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

NEW YORK BOSTON CHICAGO DALLAS 
ATLANTA SAN FRANCISCO 

MACMILLAN & CO., LIMITED 

LONDON BOMBAY CALCUTTA 
MELBOURNE 

THE MACMILLAN CO. OF CANADA, LTD. 

TORONTO 



A LABORATORY MANUAL OF 
FOODS AND COOKERY 



BY 



EMMA B. MATTESON 

INSTRUCTOR IN HOME ECONOMICS, GEORGE PEABODY 
COLLEGE FOR TEACHERS 

AND 

ETHEL M. NEWLANDS 

DIRECTOR OF HOME ECONOMICS, THE BUFFALO 
TECHNICAL HIGH SCHOOL 



gorfc 

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 
1917 

411 rights reserved 



COPYRIGHT, 1916, 
BY THE MACMILLAN COMPANY. 



Set up and electrotyped. Published June. 1916. Reprinted 
February, 1917. 






Norfaooti 

J. 8. Cashing Co. Berwick & Smith Co. 
Norwood, Mass., U.S.A. 



PREFACE 

TEACHING experience has shown the need of a textbook ap- 
proaching the study of foods and cookery through experimental 
work in chemistry, bacteriology, and biology. In this book, 
therefore, under each topic a considerable number of experi- 
ments will be found. The performance of these experiments 
and the answering of the questions which arise from them will 
give the student a firsthand acquaintance with the leading char- 
acteristics of each kind of food, will furnish a basis for the 
discussion of the procedures used in cookery, and should give 
her such a grasp of the principles involved as will enable her to 
work without recipes, or to develop her own. The attainment 
of such mastery on the part of the student is, however, greatly 
facilitated by practice with a considerable number of recipes 
which have already been thoroughly tested, just as in other ex- 
perimental sciences, the student is taught in part through prac- 
tice with explicit and workable laboratory directions. Hence, 
in addition to the experiments, the present work will be found 
to contain thoroughly tested recipes in adequate number and 
variety to permit of choice. It has also seemed wise to include 
a considerable number of " score cards " to facilitate judgment 
of the finished product ; and of illustrative calculations of nutri- 
tive values of typical cooked foods. Each chapter has been 
made sufficiently complete in itself so that the topics may be 
taken up in any desired sequence and not necessarily in the 
order followed in the book. 

This Laboratory Manual was worked out through the corre- 
lated experience of the authors at Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, and 
Simmons College, Boston, and is amplified by their individual 

35936^ 



VI PREFACE 

experiences in the Public Schools of New York City and New 
Haven ; the State Normal School at Winona, Minnesota ; The 
School of Education of The University of Chicago; and The 
Diet School of Johns Hopkins Hospital. 

The authors desire to acknowledge the help given by Pro- 
fessor Ada Field of George Peabody College for Teachers, in 
the revision of the manuscript, and to express their appreciation 
of the encouragement received from Dr. Henry Clapp Sherman, 
of Columbia University. 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER I 
Beverages 

PAGB 

Food value of beverages. The methods of serving beverages. 
Fruit acids. The stimulants of beverages. Experiments with tea, 
coffee, chocolate, and cocoa. Recipes for preparation of stimulating 
and nutritive beverages. Recipes for cereal waters. References . 1 

CHAPTER II 

Fruits 

I 

Classification. Composition and nutritive value. General rules 
for preparation. Reasons for cooking fruit. How to purchase fruit. 
Experiments with fruits. Recipes for preparation of fresh and dried 
fruits. Food value of apple sauce and stewed prunes. References . 11 

CHAPTER III 
Canning and Preserving 

Methods of preservation of fruits and vegetables. Experiments 
with fruits and vegetables. General rules for canning and preserv- 
ing. General directions for canning and preserving. Recipes. 
Score card for canned fruits, preserves. References ... 22 

CHAPTER IV 
Cereals 

Composition and nutritive value. How to purchase cereals. 
Reasons for cooking cereals. Methods of cooking. Methods of 
serving, variations in serving, differences in consistency. Table of 
time and amounts of water per unit of cereal. General rules for 
cooking of cereals. Experiments. Recipes for cereals, cereals with 
fruits, farinaceous desserts, gruels. References .... 47 

vii 



Vlll CONTENTS 

CHAPTER V 
Vegetables and Vegetable Soups 

PAGE 

Composition and nutritive value. Classification. Points to em- 
phasize. Reasons for cooking vegetables. Ways of serving vege- 
tables. General principles. Experiments. Recipes for vegetables. 
White sauce, creamed vegetables, scalloped vegetables. Recipes for 
scalloped dishes, cream soups, and purees. Food values of baked 
beans, creamed potato, cream of pea soup, cream of tomato soup, 
cream of potato soup, cream of lentil soup, split pea soup. Refer- 
ences 58 

CHAPTER VI 
Milk, Cream, and Butter 

Composition and nutritive value. Experiments with cream, butter, 
buttermilk ; sweet milk, sour milk ; cheese ; absorption of odors. 
Recipes for junkets, custards, puddings. Food value of baked cus- 
tard, rice pudding with eggs. References 82 

CHAPTER VII 

Cheese 

Composition and nutritive value. Recipes for cheese. (Experi- 
ments, see Chapter VI.) Food value of macaroni and cheese, rice 
with cheese and tomatoes. References 95 

CHAPTER VIII 
Eggs, Souffle's, and Croquettes 

Composition and nutritive value. Experiments. Recipes for eggs. 
Food value of scrambled eggs. Recipes for souffles. Experiments 
with fats for frying. Recipes for croquettes. Score card for cro- 
quettes. References 107 

CHAPTER IX 

Meats, Stock Soups, and Gelatin 

Quality of good meat. Composition and nutritive value. Pre- 
served meat. Meat experiments. Cuts of beef, veal, lamb and mut- 



CONTENTS IX 

PAGE 

ton, pork. Soups. Recipes for stock soups ; recipes for meats ; 
meat sauces. Score card for roast of meat. Gelatin. Composition 
and nutritive value. Experiments with gelatin. Gelatin desserts. 
Food value of snow pudding. Score card for gelatin desserts. 
References 123 

CHAPTER X 
Poultry 

Quality. Composition and digestibility. Dressing and cleaning 
poultry. Trussing poultry. Directions for boning poultry or birds. 
Recipes for poultry : sauces ........ 153 

CHAPTER XI 
Fish and Shellfish 

Classes of fish. Freshness of fish. Composition and nutritive 
value. Preserved fish. Vegetables suitable for serving with fish as 
a garnish. Sauces for fish. Fish in combination with other food. 
Cleaning fish. Boning fish. Methods of cooking. Aim in cooking 
fish. Recipes for fish. Fish sauces. Food value of creamed cod- 
fish On toast. Shellfish : oysters, clams, scallops, lobsters, crabs. 
Recipes. References . . . 158 

CHAPTER XII 
Flour Mixtures 

Composition and nutritive value. Experiments with flour, bread, 
muffins, baking powder biscuits, pastry, cake. Experiments with 
leavens : sodium bicarbonate, yeasts. Classification of flour mix- 
tures. References 172 

CHAPTER XIII 
Batters and Doughs 

Recipes : bread, light, quick ; rolls, sticks, buns. Score cards for 
bread, raised biscuits ; recipes for baking powder biscuits, variations 
in baking powder biscuits. Food value of baking powder biscuits. 
Score card for baking powder biscuits. Recipes for griddlecakes 
and waffles ; timbale cases ; fritters ; doughnuts ; muffins. Food 



X CONTENTS 

value of plain muffins. Score card for muffins. Recipes for pop- 
overs, cream puffs, flour pastes. Classification of cookies. Recipes 
for cookies. Food value of molasses cookies, hermits. Score card 
for rolled cookies, dropped cookies 189 



CHAPTER XIV 
Cake 

General rules for mixing. General rules for baking. Recipes for 
butter cakes, molasses cakes, sponge cakes, angel food cakes. Food 
values of hot water gingerbread, chocolate cake, hot water sponge 
cake. Score cards for loaf cake, layer cake, sponge cake. Recipes 
for cooked frostings ; uncooked frostings ; cake fillings . . . 218 



CHAPTER XV 

Pastry 

Recipes for plain paste; puff paste; cheese straws; fillings for 
pies. Score cards for two-crust pie, one-crust pie, one-crust pie and 
meringue 235 

CHAPTER XVI 
Flour Mixtures using Sour Milk, Buttermilk, Sour Cream 

Recipes for breads, puddings, cakes, cookies, gingerbread, dough- 
nuts 243 

CHAPTER XVII 
Salads and Sandwiches 

Classification of salad greens, salad foundations, variations in salad 
dressings. Service of salads. To prepare salad greens. Combina- 
tions for salads. Food values of vegetable salad, romaine or lettuce 
salad. General rules for sandwiches. Classification of conveyors for 
filling ; classification of fillings. Food value of whole wheat bread 
and cheese sandwiches 248 



CONTENTS xi 

CHAPTER XVIII 
Salad Dressings 

PAGE 

Experiments. Recipes for French dressing and variations ; cream 
dressing ; boiled dressing ; mayonnaise dressing. Food values of 
mayonnaise dressing, French dressing, boiled dressing. References 260 

CHAPTER XIX 
Desserts 

Recipes for steamed puddings, pudding sauces. Experiments with 
frozen desserts. Classification of frozen desserts. Recipes for frozen 
desserts ; ice creams, ices, sherbets, frappes, mousses. Food values 
of vanilla ice cream, milk sherbet. Score card for sherbets and ices ; 
Philadelphia ice cream j custard ice cream. References for ice cream 266 

CHAPTER XX 

Sugar and Candy 

Composition and nutritive value of sugar. Experiments with sugar. 
General directions for fondant. Directions for using fondant. Reci- 
pes for candy, candied orange peel, salted almonds. References for 
sugar . 284 

CHAPTER XXI 
Recipes for Fifty Servings 

Recipes for beverages, fruits, cereals, vegetables, cream soups, 
stock soups, meats, meat substitutes, fish, flour mixtures, salads, des- 
serts, frozen desserts . 295 



LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS 
AND COOKERY 



CHAPTER I 
BEVERAGES 

BEVERAGES are mixtures of liquids and flavoring material and 
may be classified as acid, albuminous, starchy, and stimulating. 
Acid beverages are lemonade, orangeade, grapejuice, and fruit 
punch. Albuminous beverages are liquids to which is added 
egg albumin, egg yolk, or milk. Starchy beverages are cereals 
cooked in a large quantity of water, as a gruel strained and 
cooked. Stimulating beverages are tea, coffee, cocoa, cocoa 
shells, and chocolate. 

Food value of beverages. Acid beverages are valuable be- 
cause of organic acids and mineral matter (" ash constituents ") 
present. Also because of sugar which is naturally contained 
as well as that usually added, the stimulation of peristaltic 
action, the diuretic action, and lastly the appetizing odor and 
taste. 

Albuminous and starchy beverages are valuable because of 
their increased nutritive value, and because they may be easily 
taken. Such beverages are primarily designed for invalids, and 
a considerable amount of nutriment can be taken in this form 
in the course of a day, especially as milk can be added and the 
nutritive value of a starchy drink thus greatly increased. 



2 LABORATORY. MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Stimulating beverages are valuable because of the food value 
of cream or milk and sugar usually served with them. Also 
because various food products, as bread, rolls, toast, cookies, 
crullers, cake, often accompany the beverage. 

The stimulant of tea, coffee, or chocolate when taken in strict 
moderation is usually not harmful to adults, but is often re- 
freshing and not followed by the depression which follows the 
stimulating effect of alcohol. 

For description of beverages and standards of purity see 
Sherman's Food Products, pages 436-438 and 465-469. 

Methods of serving beverages. Beverages to be served cold 
should be cooled in the refrigerator or ice cream freezer but 
should not have ice put in them. 

Beverages to be served hot should be served fresh from the 
fire and should not be reheated. Where boiling water is to be 
used, it should be fresh water boiled and not reboiled water. 
Tea and coffee should be made in a receptacle which can be 
tightly covered, as it is the aroma which we wish to preserve. 

Fruit beverages may be served with the grated rind of fruit, 
slices of fruit, small fruits as strawberries and cherries, whole 
cloves, apollinaris water, or vichy water. 

Stimulating beverages may be served hot, cold, or partly 
frozen. 

Tea may be served with milk, sugar, slices of lemon or orange, 
whole cloves or lime drops. 

Coffee may be served with hot milk, cream, sugar. 

Chocolate may be served with milk, cream (whipped or un- 
whipped), sweetened chocolate grated and sprinkled on top of 
cream, marshmallow, stick cinnamon. 

Fruit acids. The characteristic acids of fruits are as follows : 
lemons and oranges, citric acid; apples, malic acid; grapes, 
potassium acid tartrate. 

The characteristic alkaloids found in stimulating beverages 
are for tea, theine ; coffee, caffeine ; chocolate, theobromine. 



BEVERAGES 3 

The theine of tea has been found identical with the caffeine 
of coffee. Tannin of tea influences its taste. (See experiments 
with tea.) Caffetannic acid influences the flavor of coffee. 
The flavor of both tea and coffee is doubtless also influenced 
by the volatile oils which they both contain but which are 
largely lost on long boiling. 

Of tea, coffee, and chocolate, the latter has much the highest 
food value. 

EXPERIMENTS 
Tea 

1. Prepare four cups of tea, A, B, C, D, in the following manner 
(use black tea) : 

A. i level tsp. tea, i c. boiling water (note the temperature 
at which the water boils). Pour the boiling water through the tea 
leaves, but do not allow the leaves to remain in the cup. 

B. i level tsp. tea, i c. boiling water. Pour the boiling 
water over the tea leaves and allow it to stand over the leaves 5 
minutes. Decant off the infusion. 

C. Repeat B, but do not decant the infusion. Allow it to 
cool and then reheat it. 

D. i level tsp. tea, i c. boiling water. Pour the boiling 
water over the leaves and continue the boiling for 5 minutes. 

Note the color, odor, and taste of each cup of tea. 

2. a. Test 2 tbsp. of each cup of tea with 5 drops of lead acetate 
solution. 1 

b. What change occurs? 

c. To what is this change due? 

d. Which method of making tea brings the most tannin into 
the infusion? 

1 Lead acetate solution. Dissolve 18 gm. of lead acetate in 70 ccm. of hot dis- 
tilled water; to this add n gm. of lead oxide. Boil the mixture for 30 minutes with 
occasional stirring, allow it to settle for a few minutes, and decant the clear liquid. 
Add enough distilled water to make the volume up to 81 ccm. For ordinary use 
take i part of this solution to 4 parts distilled water. This solution is used as 
a precipitant in testing infusions and fruit juices. 



4 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

3. Compare characteristics of black and green tea by preparing 
by the best method a cup of tea made from black tea and one made 
from green tea. Use for each cup 

i tsp. tea i c. boiling water 

4. Compare various kinds of black tea by preparing a cup of 
tea from each of the following : 

" English Breakfast " Orange Pekoe 

Flowery Pekoe Oolong 

Coffee 
Have ready the following : 

A. Coffee pot. 

. B. Coffee pot and aluminum cup with perforated sides. 

C. Coffee pot and cloth bag. 

D. Percolator. 

[ powdered 

E. Coffee < pulverized 

{ finely ground 

5. 1 a. Use : coffee pots A, B, C, and percolator D. 

powdered 



2 tbsp. coffee 



pulverized 



finely ground 

Use first the finely ground coffee, add i cup of cold water, 
place in the coffee pots and in the percolator, heat until the boiling 
point is reached. Boil 2 minutes, allow the beverage to stand with- 
out cooking 5 minutes. 

b. Note the color, clearness, odor, flavor. 

6. a. Repeat 5 a, using pulverized and powdered coffee in turn. 

b. Compare the results as to efficiency. 

c. Compare the results as to color, clearness, odor, flavor, 
oiliness. 

1 For convenience of reference experiments are numbered consecutively through- 
out the book. 



BEVERAGES 5 

7. Repeat the above experiments, boiling the coffee in each 
instance 4 minutes, 6 minutes, 10 minutes in turn. 

8. a. Prepare coffee by the methods used in 7 (boiling 4, 6, 10 
minutes), but before putting the coffee into the utensil add i tbsp. 
egg white. Note : Part of the class use \ egg shell. 

b. Note the color, clearness, odor, flavor, oiliness. 

c. Does the egg white or shell produce any improvement? 
Explain. 

d. By what other method may coffee be cleared? 

9. a. Prepare coffee in the utensils used in the previous ex- 
periments. Try each of the coffees in succession. Use 2 tbsp. coffee 
and pour upon it i cup of vigorously boiling water. Do not allow 
beverage to boil, but simmer for i minute. 

b. Compare the results in each case as before. 

10. Prepare coffee as in 5 a using i c. boiling water instead of 
cold water. Allow the coffee to boil 4, 6, 10 minutes and compare 
with that made by other methods. 

Which method and which utensils produce the most accept- 
able beverage ? 

Is it possible to produce good results by more than one method ? 

For each utensil which method is best and to what stage should 
the coffee be ground ? 

11. a. Test 2 tbsp. of coffee infusion made by each method 
with 5 drops of lead acetate. See page 3. 

b. Is the presence of tannic acid shown? 

c. By which method of making coffee is the most produced ? 

Cocoa and Chocolate 

Prepare a paste of 2 tsp. cocoa and 2 tbsp. hot water. Use this 
to correspond with \ sq. chocolate. 

Perform each experiment first with cocoa, then with chocolate. 

12. a. Prepare cocoa and chocolate using : 

2 tsp. cocoa paste f 2 c. water 

i c. cold liquid < 
I sq. chocolate [ ^ c. milk 



6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

b. Pour the cold liquid on to the paste or chocolate. Cook 
in the double boiler 5 minutes after the liquid is hot. 

c. Compare each as to flavor, sweetness, color. 

d. What is the result when cold liquid is added to the paste 
or chocolate ? 

e. Is this a desirable method of preparing cocoa or chocolate ? 

13. Prepare cocoa and chocolate using the paste and \ sq. 
chocolate by heating the liquid first. Cook in the double boiler 5, 
10, 15 minutes, testing flavor and consistency at each stage. 

14. Prepare a paste of the chocolate by melting it over hot 
water and adding 2 tsp. hot water to \ sq. chocolate. 

a. Use the cocoa and chocolate paste and prepare bever- 
ages using i c. hot milk for each. Pour the hot liquid slowly on to 
the paste, mixing it in thoroughly each time until a smooth, brown 
mixture results. Cook this in a double boiler 15 to 20 minutes. 
Note the flavor and consistency as compared with previous methods. 

b. To this last beverage add 2 drops vanilla and a grain or 
two of salt. Is the flavor improved? Why? 

c. Beat the beverage with a Dover egg beater. Result? 
How do you explain the frothy consistency which results? 
What differences are noted between cocoa and chocolate as bever- 
ages ? How are tnese accounted for ? 

Hot Tea 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. tea 4 c. boiling water 

Method : 

Follow the method which was found most desirable in the experi- 
ments. 



Cold Tea I 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. tea 2 qt. cold water 

Method: 

Put tea in a pitcher or glass jar, turn in the cold water and allow it 
to stand overnight in the refrigerator. Decant the liquid from the 
leaves and serve ice cold. 



BEVERAGES 7 

Cold Tea II 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. tea 4 c. boiling water 

4 c. cold water 

Method: 

Prepare tea and boiling water as for hot tea. Dilute the infusion 
with the 4 cups of cold water. Decant from the tea leaves, allow 
the liquid to cool, and serve ice cold. 

NOTE : a. Cold tea is more appetizing if it is served about one half as 
strong as hot tea. 

b. In preparing hot tea use only water which is fresh and just 

beginning to boil. 

c. Do not use a tin teapot ; use a tea ball, crockery or china teapot. 

d. Do not use tea leaves a second time. 

e. Never allow tea to boil. 

/. Do not allow tea to stand over the tea leaves after steeping has 
been accomplished. If tea has to be kept hot for a time, 
turn the infusion from the leaves. 



Black Coffee 

Ingredients : 

i c. coffee | egg 

f c. cold water 5 c. boiling water 

| c. cold water 
Method: 

Mix coffee, | c. cold water, and egg together, let stand ten minutes 
in coffee pot. Pour in boiling water and boil gently for five minutes. 
Remove to warm part of stove, add ^ c. cold water, pouring some of 
it down the spout of coffee pot. Serve at once. 



Cocoa 

Ingredients : 

% c. cocoa i c. water or coffee (hot) 

| c. sugar 3 c. milk (hot) 

Method: 

Mix cocoa and sugar together in a saucepan, pour over the hot 
water or coffee and let boil until a syrup is formed (this cooks the 



8 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

starch in the cocoa). Add the hot milk, stirring it in slowly, return 
to a double boiler and let cook 15 to 20 minutes. A few grains of 
salt and a drop of vanilla may be added just before serving. Serve 
with whipped cream or beat to a froth with a Dover beater. 

Chocolate 

Ingredients : 

4 c. milk, 2 oz. chocolate 

or 2 c. milk and c. sugar 

2 c. water | c. water (hot) 

Method: 

Grate or cut the chocolate into small pieces, place in upper part 
of a double boiler, add the sugar and \ c. of hot water. Allow the 
chocolate to melt and cook with the sugar until a smooth paste is 
formed. Add the milk or milk and water to this chocolate mixture, 
stirring it constantly with a wooden spoon and adding the liquid very 
slowly. When the liquid has been added, beat it vigorously with the 
Dover egg beater and then allow it to cook 15 to 20 minutes. 

NOTE : a. If flakes of chocolate appear, the liquid was added in too large 
quantities at a time. 

b. Always pour the liquid into the chocolate paste, otherwise the 

flakes will be sure to appear. 

c. The long cooking of both cocoa and chocolate is necessary because 

of the starch which is characteristic of both. 

d. The flavor of both chocolate and cocoa is improved by allowing it 

to stand 15 to 20 minutes in a warm place after cooking and 
before serving. 

Lemon Whey 

Ingredients : 

i c. hot milk 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

2 tbsp. sugar 
Method: 

Heat the milk in a double boiler. Add the lemon juice. Cook 
without stirring 'until the whey separates. Strains-through cheese- 
cloth, and add the sugar. Serve hot or cold. Garnish with small 
pieces or slice of lemon. 



BEVERAGES 9 

Lemonade 

Ingredients : 

i lemon 2 tbsp. sugar 

i c. boiling water ^ thin slice lemon 

Method: 

Wash and wipe lemon ; cut a very thin slice from middle ; use this 
for garnish. Squeeze juice into a bowl (keeping back the seeds), 
add the sugar and boiling water ; cover, and put on ice to keep cool. 
Strain and pour into a glass or sherbet cup. Cut half the slice of 
lemon into two pieces, and use as garnish in glass; a few berries or 
slice of orange may be used. 

NOTE : The quantity of sugar in lemonade may be varied, depending upon 
the acidity of the fruit. 

Grape Juice and Egg 

Ingredients : 

i egg i tbsp. sugar 

c. rich milk f c. grape juice 

tsp. powdered sugar 
Method: 

Beat the yolk and white separately very light. To the yolk add 
milk, sugar, and grape juice, and pour into glass. To the white add 
a little powdered sugar and a tbsp. of grape juice. Serve on yolk 
mixture. Chill all ingredients before using. 

Oatmeal Water 

Ingredients : 

i tbsp. oatmeal salt 

i tbsp. cold water i qt. boiling water 

Method: 

Mix oatmeal and cold water, add salt, and stir into the boiling 
water. Boil three hours; replenish the water as it boils away. 
Strain through a fine sieve or cheesecloth. Season, serve cold. 
Different brands of oatmeal vary considerably in the amount of 
water which they take up in cooking, and sufficient should always 
be added to make this drink almost as thin as water. 



10 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Barley Water 

Ingredients : 

i tbsp. pearl barley i qt. cold water 

salt 
Method: 

Wash barley, add cold water and let soak several hours or over 
night. Drain and add the fresh, cold water, boil gently over direct 
heat two hours, or in a double boiler steadily four Jiours, down to 
one pint, adding water from time to time ; season with salt. Strain 
through muslin. 

NOTE : Cream or milk may be added, or lemon juice and sugar. Barley 
water is a slightly astringent or demulcent drink used to re- 
duce laxative condition. 

REFERENCES 

BAILEY. Source, Chemistry, and Use of Food. 

BOLAND. Handbook of Invalid Cookery. 

FRIEDENWALD and RUHRAH. Diet in Health and Disease. 

HAUSMANN. Home Manufacture and Use of Unfermented Grape 

Juice. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' 

Bulletin No. 175 (1903). 
KAKUZO. The Book of Tea. 
KELLOGG, ELLA. Science in the Kitchen, Principles of Healthful 

Cookery. 

LEACH. Food Inspection and Analysis. 
LINCOLN and BARROWS. Home Science Cook Book. 
MEUNIER, L. Fruit Juices. Ontario Department of Agriculture, 

Fruit Branch Bulletin No. 200 (1912). 
PATTEE. Practical Dietetics with Special Reference to Diet in 

Disease. 

PRACTICAL DIETETICS. Demonstration Iowa State College Agri- 
culture Extension Department. Short Course Class Notes, 

No. 8. 

SACHSE. How to Cook for the Sick. 
SHERMAN. Food Products. 



CHAPTER II 
FRUITS 

FRUITS are divided into five general classes small fruits, 
orchard fruits, grapes, citrus fruits, and tropical fruits. 

These are available either in the fresh or dried state and all 
may be served raw or cooked. 

Fruits vary greatly in chemical composition. Their value 
in the diet is due chiefly to the ash constituents rather than to 
the protein, carbohydrate, or fat content. (See Sherman's 
Food Products, pages 335-338 for percentage composition and 
pages 347-349 for percentage of ash in the edible portion.) 

When their energy value (due chiefly to carbohydrates) and 
their relative richness in certain important ash constituents 
are considered, the staple fruits are found to be more econom- 
ical articles of food than is generally recognized. Except near 
the regions where grown, the dried fruits are usually more 
economical than the fresh. 

The dietetic value of fruits is greater than cquld be inferred 
from the percentage composition alone, because of their refresh- 
ing and other desirable qualities which cannot as yet be sub- 
jected to quantitative measurement. The agreeable " ethe- 
real " and acid flavors of fruit are helpful to appetite and 
doubtless also to digestion. 

Fruit may be either a laxative or an astringent or both, as 
in the case of fruits which contain astringent substance in the 
skin, while the pulp is laxative. Fruit is also valuable for its 
antiscorbutic property and often seems to act as a mild and 



12 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

beneficial diuretic. The cellulose is useful in giving bulk to the 
food residues and preventing their stagnation in the intestine. 

A given fruit often shows quite different properties at differ- 
ent stages in ripening, the most distinct changes in composi- 
tion being usually a decrease in acid and starch with an increase 
in sugar content. Pectin substances present in underripe fruits 
cause fruit juices to jelly. 

The desirability of increasing the use of fruit as food and the 
variety of attractive properties possessed by fruits and fruit 
products, lend special interest to the subject of fruit cookery. 

General rules for preparation: 

Small and soft fruits need careful handling when washed. Fill 
bowl with cold water, put fruit in and remove with strainer or per- 
forated spoon in order not to crush. 

Hard fruits, if small, may be washed in a colander under running 
water, or if large wiped with a damp cloth. 

Decayed spots, bruises, or worm holes should be removed, prefer- 
ably with a silver knife. 

Cover pared fruits with cold water until ready to cook. 

Oranges, lemons, and grapefruit should be scrubbed with a brush ; 
bananas peeled and scraped, raspberries and blackberries removed 
from baskets with a fork to avoid crushing. 

Dried fruits should be examined and washed in several waters. 

Reasons for cooking fruit : 

To soften cellulose. 

In some instances to insure digestibility. 

To further variety in serving. 

In some instances to destroy bacteria. 

How to purchase : 

Fruits are economical when purchased in season, and if storage fa- 
cilities allow, should be bought in quantity. Freshness and cleanli- 
ness should receive first consideration. Dried fruits may take the 
place of fresh fruits when the latter are not in season. The cost of 
fruits varies with locality study the market in your own section. 



FRUITS 13 

EXPERIMENTS 
Apple 

16. 1 Grate an apple into a bowl. With a wooden spoon 
thoroughly mash the solid matter with the juice. 
What change in color is observed ? 

16. Add about 2 tbsp. of water to the mixture obtained in Expt. 
15, and strain the liquid through wet cheesecloth into a bowl. Filter 
the juice through a wet fluted filter and keep it for Expt. 17 and 18 
below. To portions of the apple pulp apply : 

a. The Millon test 2 for protein. 

b. The iodine test for starch. 3 

17. To small portions of the clear filtered apple juice obtained 
in Expt. 16, apply the following tests : 

a. Heat about 10 cc. to boiling in a test tube and notice 
whether coagulation takes place. Filter through a wet fluted paper 
and test the residue on the paper by adding a few drops of nitric 
acid. If protein is present, it will be turned yellow by the nitric acid. 

b. Test for starch by adding iodine solution. (The portion 
of solution to which this test is applied must be cool.) 

c. Test for " reducing sugars " by mixing a small amount of 
the clear juice with an equal volume of the Fehling-Benedict 4 solution, 
allow to stand a minute and note any change of color, then boil for 
two minutes. (Reference should be made to Leach's Food Inspection 

1 For convenience the experiments are numbered consecutively throughout the 
book. 

2 Millon' s reagent:. One part, by weight, of mercury dissolved in two parts of 
strong nitric acid. Dilute the solution with twice its bulk of water. After standing 
24 hours, the supernatant liquid should be decanted from the precipitate. Proteins 
are colored red by this solution. Warming aids the development of the color. 

3 Starch, iodine reaction: To the material to be tested for starch add a few drops 
of iodine solution (iodine dissolved in a water solution of potassium iodide). A 
blue, violet, or purple color indicates the presence of starch. 

4 Fehling-Benedict solution : 

34.65 gm. crystallized copper sulphate made up to 500 cc. with distilled water. 

173 gm. Rochelle salt ) 

,. > made up to 500 cc. with distilled water. 

100 gm. anhydrous sodium carbonate / 



14 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

and Analysis, Sherman's Organic Analysis, or Woodmann's Food 
Analysis.} 

d. Test for proteins by means of Millon's reagent, making 
the test as closely comparable with that of the pulp as possible. 

18. Preparation of pectin. 1 

a. Neutralize the remaining apple juice with a sufficient 
quantity of caustic soda (sodium hydroxide) solution. 

b. Heat the neutral fluid to boiling to complete the coagu- 
lation of the protein. 

c. Filter on a wet fluted paper while the liquid is hot. 

d. To the cold filtrate in a beaker or glass add alcohol, little 
by little, in sufficient quantity to produce a bulky, gelatinous precipi- 
tate of pectin. An equal volume of alcohol may be required. (Save 
this for Expt. 19.) 

19. Properties of pectin. Continuing the work begun in Expt. 18 : 

a. Allow the alcohol to evaporate after decanting off as much 
as possible. 

b. Dissolve the pectin in water and concentrate by heating. 

c. Turn into beaker and let cool. The gelatinizing power 
of pectin will be shown. 

NOTE : Other fruits or vegetables may be used to further demonstrate the 
above principles. Compare the experiments on vegetables, 
jellies, and gelatin described in later chapters. 

20. Decay of fruit (A). Place in a jar a number of apples that 
have been bruised or cut, packing them in rather tightly. Scatter 
in the jar some spores of the common mold which will usually 
be found on moldy lemon. Close the jar and set aside. Prepare 
a second jar with some whole clean apples and treat in the same 
way. Compare the two jars for a week or two to see if decay makes 
its appearance in either or both of the jars. Does bruising hasten 
the decay of the fruit ? 

1 Pectin, to which the essential gelatinous consistency of fruit jellies is due, is a 
substance belonging to the group of carbohydrates. It is entirely different from 
gelatin, which is a peculiar protein obtained from bone and other animal tissues and 
forms the basis of animal jellies. 



FRUITS 15 

21. Decay of fruit (B). Make a cut through the skin of an 
apple with a knife blade that has been previously dipped into the 
midst of a mass of mold spores. Put the apple aside in a jar and 
examine carefully until it decays. Note that the decay begins rather 
quickly and starts at the point of the cut where the spores were 
inoculated. 

22. Experiment. Apple Sauce 

i apple 2 tbsp. sugar 

5 tbsp. water | tsp. nutmeg 

Prepare apple sauce by paring and slicing the apple and cooking 
it in the water until soft. Let half the class (a) add sugar at begin- 
ning of process ; the other half (6) add sugar at end of process. 

Use the thermometer constantly and compare the temperatures 
throughout the making of the apple sauce. 

Account for differences in color, taste, and consistency. 

23. Experiment. Baked Apple 

Prepare baked apples in the following ways : in each case core and 
fill cavity with sugar. 

a. Wash and remove skin from apple. Bake in slow oven. 
(Temperature ?) 

b. Repeat with a second apple but bake in a hot oven. 
(Temperature ?) 

c. Wash and core third and fourth apples. Do not remove 
skin. Bake one in slow, and one in hot oven. 

d. Wash and core fifth and sixth apples. Make a slit around 
each apple, through the skin. Bake one in a hot oven, one in slow. 

Which method and temperature produces best result? 



l6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Baked Apples 

Ingredients : 

8 apples \ c. sugar 

tsp. cinnamon 
Method: 

Select apples of uniform size. Wipe and core apples. Make an 
incision in the skin to allow steam to escape, place in baking dish, 
and fill cavities with sugar and spice. Surround apples with boiling 
water and bake in a hot oven until soft, basting frequently. 

Variations 

The apples may be pared before coring. The cores may be filled 
with: 

brown sugar sugar and lemon juice 

raisins and nuts sugar and orange juice 

cooked prunes and nuts cooked oatmeal and raisins 

jelly uncooked custard 

Steamed Apples 

Wipe, pare, and core apples. Place in double boiler, cover and 
steam until apples are soft. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Apples-in-Bloom 

Wipe and core red apples. Steam until tender and remove skins. 
The apples should be pink when steamed. 

Apple Sauce 

Ingredients : 

8 apples water 

i c. sugar nutmeg 

Method: 

Wipe, pare, and slice apples. Cook in a small amount of water 
until soft, add sugar and cook until sugar dissolves. Strain. Grate 
nutmeg over the sauce. 



FRUITS 17 

Stewed Apples 

Ingredients : 

8 apples i c. water 

i c. sugar 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

Method: 
Wipe and pare apples. Core and cut in halves, quarters, eighths, 

or circles, or cut in balls with vegetable cutter. Place in cold water 

while preparing a sirup of the sugar and water by boiling 3 minutes. 

Cook apples, a few at a time, in the sirup until soft. Remove all 

sirup, add lemon juice, and boil until thick. Strain the thick sirup 

and pour it upon the apples. 

Baked Bananas 

Peel bananas, scrape with silver knife, and cut in halves length- 
wise. Place on buttered pan, sprinkle with sugar and lemon juice, 
and bake in a slow oven until soft, basting often with the sirup. 

Bananas may also be baked in the skins. 

Baked Crabapples 

Crabapples should be left whole. If cooked slowly enough the 
liquid in the pan will form a red jelly. This should be served with 
the crabapples. 

Baked Quinces 

Ingredients: 

8 quinces f c. sugar 

1 1 c. water 
Method: 

Wipe, quarter, core and pare quinces. Put in a baking dish, 
sprinkle with sugar, add the water, cover and cook until soft in a slow 
oven. 

Baked Pears 

Ingredients : 

8 pears i c. sugar 

i c. water 

Method: 

Same as for quinces. Small pears may be baked whole. 
c 



l8 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Cranberry Sauce 

Ingredients : 

i qt. cranberries 2 c. sugar 

2 c. water 
Method: 

Remove bruised berries, wash others in a strainer, and cook them in 
water until they begin to burst. Add sugar and cook until thoroughly 
soft. Skim. 

Cranberry Jelly 

Ingredients : 

i qt. cranberries 2 c. sugar 

i c. water 
Method: 

Cook cranberries in water until soft and press through a strainer. 
Add sugar to the pulp. Stir until sugar dissolves, then boil until it 
will jelly when dropped on a cold plate. Pour into molds previously 
wet with cold water. 

Spiced Cranberry Jelly 

Ingredients : 

i qt. cranberries 12 cloves 

1 c. water 3 allspice berries 

2 c. sugar small piece cinnamon 

| tsp. salt 
Method: 

Tie spices in cheesecloth. Cook with berries and water until 
berries are soft. Strain, and proceed as for cranberry jelly. 



Dried Fruit 

General Rules. 

1. Wash quickly in several waters. 

2. Soak in cold water overnight. 

a. Shortens time of cooking. 

b. Develops better flavor. 

c. Lessens amount of sugar required. 

3. Cook in this water until tender, using flame or the fireless 
cooker. 

4. Add sugar to softened fruit and cook a few minutes longer. 



FRUITS 19 

Prunes 

Ingredients : 

i Ib. prunes i qt. water 

i tbsp. lemon juice i tbsp. orange juice 

| c. sugar 



. Apricots 

Ingredients : 

i Ib. apricots i qt. water 

| c. sugar 



NUTRITIVE VALUES OF COOKED FOODS 

Because of variable changes in water content during cook- 
ing, as well as variations in recipes used, it is not satisfactory to 
attempt general statements of composition of cooked foods 
and as a rule only raw foods are included in the standard 
tables. It is, however, entirely feasible for the student of 
cookery in any given operation to weigh the ingredients and 
the final product and calculate the composition and food 
value of the latter. Full directions and data for such cal- 
culations will be found in Rose's Laboratory Handbook for 
Dietetics. 

To illustrate and encourage such calculations the food values 
of typical cooked foods will be shown at intervals throughout 
this book and it is recommended that the. laboratory work in 
cookery be made to include the accurate weighing of the fin- 
ished product and the calculation of its food value in as many 
cases as possible. 

For the sake of completeness and because of the im- 
portance now attached to these three elements, the food 
values here given include data for calcium, phosphorus, and 
iron. When time is limited, the protein, fat, carbohy- 
drates, calories, and cost may be calculated without the ash 
constituents. 



20 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

EXAMPLES OF CALCULATED FOOD VALUES 
Apple Sauce 













| 


i M 




6 


&i 






i 


ii 


i 


H F 


1 a 


3 


H 


| 1 


o^ = 


*fi 


MATERIAL 






! 


*& 


go 


u 


*J 


$ 


Q rf ni 

3-8 


a^ 

If 




Apples . . 


3 


159 


.64 


-79 


22.58 


IOO 


.034 


.022 


05 


.0005 


Sugar . . . 


6 tbsp. 


80.2 






80.2 


321 


.0106 








Water . . . 


Ic. 




















Total cooked 


fc. 


239-2 


.64 


79 


102.78 


421 


.0446 


.022 


.05 


.0005 


loo-Calorie 1 
Portion 1 J 


3 tbsp. 


56.95 


.15 


.19 


24.47 


IOO 


.0106 


.005 


.012 


.0001 



Stewed Prunes 



Prunes . . 


25 


226.8 


4.08 




141.07 


580 


.06 


.116 


.464 


.0052 


Sugar . . . 


Si ^sp. 


75 






75 


300 


.008 








Water . . . 


2C. 




















Total cooked 


i|c. 


538 


4.08 




216.07 


880 


.068 


.116 


.464 


.0052 


loo-Calorie 1 
Portion x J 


3 prunes 
+ sirup 


60.7 


.46 




24.42 


IOO 


.008 


.013 


.052 


.0006 



REFERENCES 

HAUSMANN. Home Manufacture and Use of Unfermented Grape 

Juice. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' 

Bulletin, 644 (1915). 
LANGWORTHY. Raisins, Figs and other Dried Fruits and Their 

Use. United States Department of Agriculture, Yearbook 

for 1912, pages 505-522. 
LANGWORTHY. Use of Fruits as Food. United States Department 

of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, No. 293 (1907). 



1 Also called Standard Portion (S. P.) 



FRUITS 21 

LANGWORTHY and MILNER. Some Results Obtained in Studying 
Ripening Bananas with the Respiration Calorimeter. Year- 
book of U. S. Department of Agriculture for 1912. 

MILAN and GARDNER. Comparative Cooking Qualities of Some of 
the Common Varieties of Apples Grown in Oregon. Oregon 
Agricultural College Experiment Station, Bulletin No. 124. 

MORSE. The Cold Storage of Apples. New Hampshire College 
Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin No. 93 (1902). 

ROSE, FLORA. Preservation of Food in the Home. Part i, Cornell 
Reading-courses. Food Series No. 4. 

SCOTT. Fruit Addition to the Diet of the Growing Child. Ameri- 
can Medicine, vol. 19, pages 416-420 (1913). 

SHERMAN. Food Products. 



CHAPTER III 
CANNING AND PRESERVING 

Fruit 

Fruit and vegetables may be preserved when in season for 
use out of season by the following methods : 

i. canning, various methods 2. preserving, various stages 

3. jelly making 4. pickling 

5. spicing 6. salting 

7. drying 

All fruits and vegetables are not prepared in the same way. 



Suitable for canning are : 






a. Fruits 






pears 
peaches 
apricots 
apples 


plums 
pineapple 
cherries 
blackberries 


strawberries 
raspberries 
blueberries 


b. Vegetables 
peas 
corn 


carrots 
asparagus 
tomatoes 


beans 
beets 



Fruits suitable for preserving are : 

a. Preserve 

strawberries quince blackberries 

large currants grapes cranberries 

plums gooseberries 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 



b. Jam 






strawberries 
plums 
elderberries 


grapes 
raspberries 
cranberries 


blackberries 
currants 


c. Marmalades 






apricot 
plums 
peaches 
apple sweet, 
crabapple 


sour 


cranberry 
grapefruit 
lemon 
quince 
orange 



yellow tomato 

d. Butters 

crabapple 
quince 

e. " Honey " (so called) 
sweet apple lemon 
grapefruit yellow tomato 

/. Conserves 

plums, oranges, and lemon 

plums, lemon, raisins 

grapes, lemon 

raisins, rhubarb 

figs, rhubarb 

peach, lemon, orange 



apple 
grape 



quince 
kumquat 



peach, currants, lemon 
pears, lemon, ginger root 
prunes, lemon, orange 
orange, grapefruit, lemon 
kumquat, orange 
cranberries, lemon, raisins 



nuts in combination with any of the above 

Fruits suitable for jelly making are : 

a. Very juicy fruits 



strawberries 

raspberries 

blackberries 



elderberries 

plums 

currants 



grapes, cultivated and wild 



24 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

b. Less juicy fruits 

peaches quince 

apricots cranberries 

apples sweet, sour, crabapple 

Fruits suitable for pickling are : 

tomatoes red, yellow peaches 

blackberries pears 

cucumbers peppers red, green 

Vegetables suitable for pickling are : 

cauliflower beets 

cabbage onions 

Fruits suitable for spicing are : 

blackberries pears 

peaches red tomatoes 

Fruits suitable for salting are : 
cucumbers, large and small 

Fruits suitable for drying are : 

currants apricots 

grapes plums 

peaches prunes 

pears cranberries 

apples sweet, sour 

Fruits suitable for beverages are : 

grapes apples sweet, sour 

currants cherries 

raspberries lemons 

elderberries oranges 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 25 

Preservation of fruits is secured by : 

1. Heat and exclusion of air 
Ex. canned peaches 

2. Exclusion of air but heat not necessary because the mate- 

rial itself is strongly acid. 
Ex. canned tomato, canned rhubarb 

3. Strong acids. 

Ex. pickled pears 

4. Strong brine 

Ex. salted cucumbers 

5. Heavy solution of sugar. 

Ex. preserves, jams, conserves, butters, honey, jellies. 

Relation to Microorganisms 

All the above methods of preserving fruits and vegetables 
depend upon either destroying, or preventing the action of 
microorganisms which would cause the food to ferment, decay, 
or become moldy. 

The microorganisms which thus spoil or injure food are cer- 
tain species of the three groups : 

a. Molds. 

b. Yeasts. 

c. Bacteria. 

Molds are seen often as yellow, green, or white growths, very 
beautiful in color and arrangement, upon lemons, oranges, 
bread, jams, jellies, and sirups. 

Some typical forms often found on food are : 

bread mold Mucor stolonifer 

green cheese mold, or blue mold Penicillium glaucum 



26 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

mold of decaying vegetation : 

blue green Aspergillus f umigatus 
yellow Aspergillus flavescens 
black Aspergillus niger. 

Yeasts cannot usually be seen without the microscope, but 
evidence of their work is shown by fermentation of fruit juices 
accompanied by bubbles of gas or a loud pop when a cork or 
cover is removed. 

Bacteria are all too small to be seen without a good micro- 
scope. The work of bacteria is shown generally by a disa- 
greeable sour taste often accompanied by an unpleasant odor 
with or without an evolution of gas. 

The following experiments will illustrate the work of molds, 
yeasts, and bacteria, but the detailed study of these organisms 
and the changes which they bring about in food materials is a 
science in itself and one of the greatest interest and importance 
to all students of foods and cookery. The reading and study 
of Buchanan's Household Bacteriology (which treats of the 
yeasts and molds as well as the bacteria of economic impor- 
tance) is especially recommended. 

EXPERIMENTS 

24. Collection of mold for study. 

a. Expose a piece of moist bread to the air of the room for 
about 10 minutes. Keep in a moist chamber and watch for the 
development of mold. A jelly glass inverted over the bread on a 
plate will do for the glass chamber. 

b. Expose a dish containing a freshly opened baked potato 
to the air of the room for about 10 minutes. Cover ; keep in locker 
and watch for the development of mold. 

c. Bring into the laboratory anything that you can find on 
which mold is growing. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 27 

26. Description of mold. Describe briefly the general appearance 
of these various forms under a small magnifying glass (15 diam.) 
or under a dissecting microscope (15 diam.). 

Describe briefly the naked eye appearance of these various molds 
that appear in the laboratory. 

26. Mold on bread. Place several slices of bread under a bell 
glass or any dish that will protect it from evaporation. Battery 
jars, large beakers, or even common bowls will answer. Moisten the 
bread with water and put aside in a warm place (8o-90 F.). After 
two or three days the bread will usually show signs of white mold. 
Allow the mold to grow until some color appears and then determine, 
if possible, whether there are more than one species of mold on the 
bread. 

27. Molds on different foods. Under separate bell glasses place 
bits of cheese, some pieces of lemon, and a bit of banana. Each of 
these should be moist. Cover and put aside dish as in the last experi- 
ment. Molds will grow in a few days, but probably different spe- 
cies will grow upon the different materials. Compare the molds and 
determine how many kinds can be seen. 

28. Experiment to show the mycelium. Place a little fruit juice, 
such as may be obtained from canned fruit, in two tubes or in 
homceopathic vials and drop a few mold spores from the last experi- 
ment, or a little dust from the floor upon the surface of the liquid. 
Set aside to grow and notice how the molds spread and send fine 
threads into the liquid. Later notice that colored masses of spores 
grow in the air upon the surface of the liquid but not in the liquid 
below. 

29. Spores. After the molds of the previous experiments have 
begun to produce spores, as shown by the appearance of some color, 
remove a little spore material from the surface with a knife blade or 
a platinum wire and examine under a microscope. For this purpose 
a compound microscope is necessary, since the spores are very small. 

30. Growth of mold from spores. Moisten a bit of bread and 
transfer with a platinum wire a little bit of the spore mass from a 
vigorously growing mold to the surface of the bread. Cover with 



28 LABORATORY MANUAL OP FOODS AND COOKERY 

a bell glass and set aside for growth. Examine every day and note 
that molds start .from the points where the bread was inoculated with 
the mold spores. 

31. Mold spores in dust. Melt gelatin l in 7 prepared test tubes, 
and pour it from each into sterilized petri dishes. Replace the cover 
upon the dish and allow the gelatin to harden. Label the petri 
dishes A, B, C, D, E, F, and G. Proceed as follows: 

A. Sweep a little dust from the floor and scatter over the 
prepared gelatin in A. Replace the cover and allow the dish to re- 
main in a cupboard until molds begin to grow. Note the number of 
hours or days until a growth appears. Obtain dust from the follow- 
ing sources and proceed as in A. 

B. Dust from a crack in the flour. 

C. Shake a dry duster over the gelatin. 

D. Shake a damp duster over the gelatin. 

E. Shake the hem of a skirt over the gelatin. 

F. Expose a plate of gelatin to the air of the room while 
sweeping. 

G. Expose a plate of gelatin to the air of the room 2 hours 
after sweeping and dusting thoroughly. 

NOTE : The above experiments may be performed using moist bread instead 
of petri dishes of gelatin, but the results are not as impressive. 
Bread can be used, however, if gelatin is not at hand. 

32. The effect of drying. Place under separate bell glass two 
slices of bread, one of which is damp, either naturally or slightly 

1 Preparation of gelatin culture media: To 100 grams of gelatin add 900 cc. of 
water and about 5 grams of Liebig's Extract of Beef and cook in double boiler for 
5 minutes. While still hot filter the material through absorbent cotton. In using 
absorbent cotton for this purpose, a large funnel should be used and the absorbent 
cotton wet with hot water, placed in it. The liquid is poured into the cotton and it 
will run through readily, coming out. as a tolerably clear solution. Some of the fil- 
tered jelly is to be placed in sterilized flasks and some in test tubes, about 10 cc. in 
each. Plug the flasks and test tubes with cotton and steam the jelly in a common 
steamer for 30 minutes. At the end of 24 hours it should again be placed in the 
steamer and steamed for half an hour. Once more set it aside for 24 hours and upon 
the third day steam it again for half an hour and cool. Material thus prepared 
should give a clear, slightly brownish jelly, which, if properly sterilized, will keep 
indefinitely. It should be acid to litmus paper. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 29 

moistened with water, and the other dried. Leave for two or three 
days and notice the effect of drying in preventing the growth of 
molds. If one slice remains dry, no molds will grow upon it though 
the other soon becomes covered. 

33. The effect of boiling temperature. In each of two test tubes 
of gelatin place a small quantity of mold spores. Melt the gelatin 
in the tubes at as low a heat as will melt it. Pour the contents of 
one tube into a petri dish and cover at once. Place the other tube in 
a beaker of boiling water and allow the water to boil briskly for half 
an hour, after which the gelatin is to be poured into a petri dish and 
treated like that in the first tube. Set both dishes aside for mold 
growth and examine at intervals for several days, noticing whether 
molds develop in both dishes or only in the first. If they grow in 
both, note the relative abundance hi the two dishes. 

34. Effect of low temperature. Prepare two plates of hardened 
gelatin and sow mold spores upon the surface of each. Leave one 
in the ordinary room temperature and place the other in an ice chest 
or some other place where the temperature is low. Compare day by 
day, and determine the effect of low temperature in checking or 
stopping mold growth. Do any molds grow upon the dish placed 
in the ice chest ? 

36. Effect of air currents. Moisten a slice of bread and sow 
mold spores upon it, or allow it to mold spontaneously under a bell 
glass. After it shows a luxuriant growth of mold, remove the bell 
glass and leave it exposed to brisk currents of the air. Notice how 
the growth of the mold ceases and the delicate mycelium flattens 
down close to the bread. 

36. Molds in cheese. Obtain a bit of Roquefort cheese. Cut 
it open and remove a bit of the green mass in the middle by means 
of a knife point or platinum wire. Sow this substance upon the 
surface of a dish of hardened gelatin and set aside for growth. 
After two or three days, the molds will begin to develop and may 
be studied with a microscope. When they begin to produce spores, 
they should, if possible, be studied sufficiently to determine the 
species. 



30 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

EXPERIMENTS ILLUSTRATING THE ACTION OF 
BACTERIA 

37. Putrefaction. 

Place in a series of test tubes a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h, with a little cold 
water, the following : 

a a small piece of chopped raw meat 

b a small amount of white of egg 

c | tsp. bread flour 

d | tsp. cornstarch 

e \ tsp. cane sugar 

/ a small amount of ground dried peas 

g | tsp. melted butter 

h | tsp. olive oil. 

Cover each test tube with a piece of cheesecloth or stop with cotton. 

Place all the test tubes together in a warm place for three days and 
watch to determine which will putrefy and in what order. 

Putrefaction can be detected by the disagreeable odor and slimy 
condition of the water. 

38. Effect of moisture. Place a small amount of the following 
foods in dry test tubes a, b, c, d, e, f. 

In a duplicate series place the same foods, but moisten each with 
water. 

Allow all to remain in a warm place and compare at the end of 3 
days. 

Notice the effect of the water in evidently promoting putrefaction. 

Foods dry and wet. 
a dried crushed peas. 
b oatmeal 
c bread 

d entire wheat flour 
e bread flour 
/ graham cracker 

39. Effect of temperature. Place bits of meat with a little water 
in three test tubes. Put the first tube in an ice chest, the second in 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 31 

ordinary room temperature, and the third close to a stove or radiator 
where the temperature is high. Notice the rapidity of putrefaction 
in each case. 

40. Effect of boiling. Chop finely some raw beef and place it in 
water, warming slightly, but not heating it to more than 130 F. 
Divide into two parts, place each in a test tube, setting one aside 
without further treatment, but bringing the other to a brisk boil for 
a moment and then setting beside the first. At the end of twenty- 
four hours, examine to determine if putrefaction has occurred. 

Effect of freezing. A visit to a cold storage plant with subse- 
quent discussions will be more beneficial than an experiment to show 
the effect of freezing upon bacteria. 

EXPERIMENTS ILLUSTRATING YEASTS AS RELATED 
TO FRUITS AND SIRUPS 

41. Fermentation of cider. Grind up a few apples and strain 
the juice from the same by squeezing through cheesecloth. Collect 
the juice in test tubes and allow it to stand for a few days. A fer- 
mentation soon appears and the juice turns to cider. Examine the 
sediment with a microscope and detect the presence of yeast. Close 
up the tube with a cotton plug and leave it for a number of weeks, 
determining whether it subsequently becomes acid by the develop- 
ment of acetic acid. 

42. Fermentation of grape juice. Proceed as above, using 
grapes instead of apples. The juice wih 1 become wine if fermenta- 
tion occurs properly. 

43. Effect of temperature. Prepare 3 tubes with molasses and 
water as above described and inoculate each with 3 drops of yeast 
in water. Place one tube in a refrigerator, a second in a moderately 
warm temperature, above 70 F., and a third in a warmer place, 
near a stove or radiator (temp, about 90 F.). Compare the three at 
the end of three, six, and twenty-four hours, and note the effect of 
temperature upon growth. 

44. Effect of light. Prepare two tubes in the same way and set 
one in a bright light and the other in a dark place. Keep both tubes 



32 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

at the same temperature and determine whether light has any effect 
upon the rapidity of growth. 

46. Make a small cavity in the surface of a glass of jelly. 

Place a drop of fermented grape juice in the cavity, replace the 
paraffin and tin covers, and allow the jelly to remain in a dark cup- 
board. 

Examine after three days and notice the changes which have 
occurred in: 

1. taste 

2. odor 

3. consistency 

46. a. Allow jelly to remain uncovered for a few minutes after 
it has cooled. Place the tin cover on jelly glass and set aside in 
warm, dark place. 

b. Examine daily for growths which will soon appear. 

c. Try to determine what kinds of mold appear. 1 

d. What is the coral pink mass which will probably appear ? 

e. Allow the action of microorganisms to continue until 
the jelly becomes semi-liquid. Place it in a bottle and cork tightly. 

/. Keep the bottle in a warm place and notice the changes 
taking place. 

g. What are the bubbles and froth which appear when the 
cork is removed ? 

h. What microorganisms other than molds have been at 
work? 

47. a. Partly fill a sterile jar a with hot peaches and sirup just 
ready for canning. Repeat in a second jar b. 

b. Adjust the rubber band and seal a to keep out the air. 
Omit the rubber band on b, but clamp down the cover. 

c. Place a and b together with a jar filled and sealed and 
containing no air bubbles in a warm, dark place. Compare daily for 
signs of the action of microorganisms. 

1 An idea of the probable kind may be obtained by noting color and general 
appearance and comparing with what has already been learned. For actual iden- 
tification the "key" at the back of Buchanan's Household Bacteriology will be found 
most useful. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 33 

d. Compare a and b. Why should a show molds when the 
outside air is excluded ? 

e. Why does no change occur in the third jar ? 

48. From these experiments what conclusions do you make as 
to: 

a. The covering of jelly or jams with hot paraffin or paper 
wet in alcohol. 

b. The exclusion of air or air bubbles from a canned mixture. 

c. The rate of action of microorganisms in a solution as jam 
or jelly compared with that in a sirup as canned peaches. 

d. In what way can sugar in large amounts act as a partial 
preservative of fruits ? 

Definitions 

As usage differs somewhat the following definitions are given to 
show the sense in which each of the terms is used in this book. 

Canned food food products preserved in air-tight containers with 
or without heat and addition of sugar or acid. 

Preserves whole fruit or large pieces of fruit in a heavy solution 
of sugar. 

Jams fruit which is finely divided or reduced to a pulp in a 
heavy solution of sugar. 

Marmalades fruit pulp in a finely divided condition to which 
may be added various spices and fruit flavors, together with a smaller 
amount of sugar than we find in jams. 

Butters fruit pulp very finely mashed, spiced, and often flavored 
with lemon. 

" Honey " fruit sirup with dense solution of sugar but still 
liquid. 

Conserves mixtures of fruit more or less finely divided in a 
fairly heavy solution of sugar, semi-liquid. 

Juices fruit juices with or without sugar, lemon, or other flavoring. 

Utensils necessary in Preserving Fruits 
scales 

measuring cup, any material not tin , 

saucepan, any material not tin 
D 



34 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

new rubbers to fit jars 

perfect covers for jars, tin, glass 

wooden spoon 

silver knife for removing skins. 

silver fork for removing bubbles from inside of jar 

jelly bag of heavy material or several thicknesses of cheesecloth 

containers for product 

glass jars stone crocks 

jelly glasses porcelain jars 

glass bottles 

paraffin 

corks 

General Directions 

I. Canning without sugar. 

a. Wash the jars and place them together with their covers 
in cold or slightly warm water. Bring to the boiling point and allow 
them to boil for 20 minutes. Place a wooden rack in kettle before 
putting in jars. 

b. Wash and prepare the fruit or vegetable in the desired 
shape for canning. 

c. Place the prepared fruit in the sterile jars; do not wipe 
the jars on the inside. Arrange the cover but do not seal ; place the 
jars in warm water and boil or steam the proper length of time for 
the given fruit or vegetables (see recipe). 

II. Canning with sugar. 

a. Use one third as much sugar as fruit (by weight). 

b. Use 4 c. of water to each Ib. of sugar. 

c. Prepare a sirup of the sugar and water by dissolving the 
sugar in the water and boiling the solution one minute. 

d. Canning may be accomplished by the following : 

1 a. Place the prepared fruit in sterile jars, covering fruit 
with the sirup, adjust the cover and steam or boil the required 
length of time for each fruit. 

2 a. Allow the prepared fruit to boil in the sirup until 
pulp is soft. Place fruit in sterile jars as soon as cooked, cover with 
the sirup, remove the air bubbles, cover and seal air-tight. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 35 

III. Preserving. 

1 . Preserves 

a. Three fourths as much sugar by weight as fruit 
measured by weight. 

b. To each pound of sugar add i c. of water. 

c. Heat water and prepared fruit to the boiling point, 
allow them to boil one minute. 

d. Add the sugar and continue the boiling until the 
sirup is thick. 

2. Jams 

a. Three fourths by weight as much sugar as fruit 
measured by weight. 

b. 2 c. of water to each pound of sugar. 

c. Boil prepared fruit and water together for 5 min- 
utes. Add the sugar and continue cooking until the sirup jellies. 

NOTE : Fruits with large seeds should be put through the colander after 
boiling five minutes and before the sugar is added. Rub the 
pulp through carefully, but keep back the seeds. 

3. Marmalades (in general) 

a. One half by weight as much sugar as fruit measured 
by weight. 

b. Three c. of water to each pound of sugar. 

c. Boil fruit until soft enough to be put through a 
colander, reduce to a pulp, add the sugar, and cook until mixture is 
very thick. 

4. Butters 

Practically the same as marmalade. Do not allow the 
mixture to become as dense as marmalade. 

5. Honey 
special recipes 

6. Conserves 
special recipes 

7. Jellies 2 methods 

a. Wash and prepare the fruit for cooking, allow it to 
cook in its own juice until very soft. 



36 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

b. Strain the juice through a jelly bag (without 
squeezing). 

c. Measure or weigh the juice and add an equal amount 
of sugar or 

a' Allow the fruit to cook in water sufficient to keep 
the pulp from sticking to bottom of saucepan or burning. 

b' Strain the pulp through jelly bag, measure the 
juice, and add sugar in the proportion of f as much sugar as juice. 
NOTE : The less juicy fruits need to have water added when first cooking. 

8. Fruit juices 

a. Proceed as for jelly until the fruit juice is extracted. 
Turn into sterile bottles, seal air-tight immediately. 
NOTE : Sugar may be added and sirup boiled 2 minutes before sealing. 
2 tbsp. sugar 
i qt. fruit sirup 

General Directions for Canning and Preserving 

Fruit should be fresh, firm, and not over-sized. 

Sterilize jars by washing thoroughly, then placing in a pan of cold 
water and heating gradually to the boiling point. Remove from 
water as needed and turn upside down to drain before filling with fruit. 

Do not dry inside of jars before filling. 

Sterilize rubbers by dipping in boiling water. New rubbers must 
be used each year. 

When cans are rilled and sealed, turn upside down and let stand 
for a short time to be sure they are air-tight. If not, sirup will run out. 

If necessary to change fruit from one can to another, always re- 
heat mixture. 

When preparing jellies, jams, or marmalades, sterilize jars as in 
canning but let dry before filling. 

Always seal jellies, jams, and marmalades with paraffin when mix- 
ture is cold and cover paraffin with tin to protect from mice. 

When boiling any fruit or sirup, never allow it to boil vigorously. 
Always boil it gently that sirup may be clear. 

NOTE : Paraffin may be washed, dried, and used again after being removed 
from top of jar. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 37 

Canned Peaches I 

Ingredients : 

i c. sugar i qt. peaches 

i c. water 
Method: 

Prepare sirup by boiling sugar and water 5 minutes. Wipe peaches 
and put in boiling water long enough to easily loosen skins. Remove 
skins with silver knife. Cut in halves, if large, and remove stones ; 
if small, may be left whole. Pack carefully in sterilized jars, but do 
not crush. Fill can with sirup, adjust covers loosely, and put on a 
rack in a covered pan with water up to the neck of the jars. Steam 
20 minutes, or until soft. Remove jars, and fill to overflowing with 
sirup or boiling water and adjust rubbers and tops quickly. 

One or two stones may be left in each jar for flavor. 

Canned Peaches II 

Method : 

Weigh fruit after peeling. Allow \ its weight in sugar and i\ or 
3 c. water to each pound of sugar. Make a sirup of sugar and water 
by boiling fifteen minutes and cook fruit in it a small quantity at a 
time. Fill jars with fruit and sirup, letting the sirup overflow. 
Put on sterilized rubbers, adjust covers, and seal. 

Canned Tomatoes 
Method I: 

Wipe tomatoes, cover with boiling water, and let stand until skins 
may be easily removed, but not long enough to allow the fruit to 
become soft. Remove skins, cut fruit in pieces, and cook without 
adding water until thoroughly scalded, skimming often during the 
cooking. Fill sterilized jars with tomatoes and liquid, adjust rubbers 
and covers, and seal at once. 

Method II: 

Sterilize jars. Wash tomatoes and plunge into boiling water to 
loosen skins. 

Place tomatoes in jars, adding i tsp. salt to i qt. of the fruit. Ad- 
just covers without rubbers, place on a rack with enough water to 



38 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

come to neck of jars. Bring to boiling point and boil for 20-30 
minutes. Remove jars, fill to overflowing with hot stewed tomatoes or 
boiling water, 1 adjust rubbers and covers, and seal. Be careful to 
have no seeds under the rubbers. 



_ ,. Grape Juice I 

Ingredients : 

10 Ibs. grapes (Concord) 2 qts. water 

2 Ibs. sugar 
Method: 

Wash the grapes and cook them in water until the skins are soft. 
Strain the pulp and liquid through a wet jelly bag. Reheat the 
juice and add the sugar and allow sirup to boil two minutes. Turn 
into- 'hot sterile bottles, cork, and seal with paraffin or equal parts of 
shoemakers' wax and resin. 

Grape Juice II 

Ingredients : 

8 Ibs. grapes (Niagara) i qt. water 

Ib. sugar 

Method: 

Wash the grapes and cook in one quart of water until the skins are 
soft. Strain the pulp and juice through a wet jelly bag. Add the 
sugar and boil the juice two minutes. Turn into hot sterile jars, 
cork, and seal. 

Raspberry Vinegar 

Ingredients : 

3 pts. raspberries i pt. cider vinegar 

i pt. juice to i Ib. sugar 
Method: 

Prepare the berries, cover with the vinegar, and allow them to stand 
overnight. Strain fruit and liquid through a wet jelly bag and boil 
the sirup fifteen minutes. Add the sugar and boil five minutes. 
Turn into hot sterile bottles, cork, and seal. 

1 Addition of water is permissible only when canning for home use. Under the 
regulations for the enforcement of the National Food and Drugs Act commercial 
canned tomatoes must not contain added water. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 39 

Jelly 
See general directions. 

Jams, Preserves, Marmalade 
See general directions. 

Grapefruit Marmalade 

Ingredients : 

2 oranges 2 lemons 

2 grapefruit sugar 

water 

Method: 

Scrub the fruit with a brush thoroughly. Remove the peel and 
cook the grapefruit rind in several waters until the inside white is 
soft. Remove this with a spoon. Slice the rinds of all three fruits 
in very tine shreds. Slice the fruit pulp in thin slices, removing all 
seeds, as these give a bitter taste to the marmalade. Weigh the pulp 
and sliced rinds. Calculate the sugar according to general directions. 
Cook the pulp in a large quantity of water until the rinds have be- 
come almost clear. This may be done by continuous boiling or by 
boiling on consecutive days, but will probably take three hours. 
Measure the liquid and add more water to bring it up to the amount 
required for the sugar to be used (see general directions). Add the 
sugar and allow sirup and pulp to boil gently until mixture will 
jelly slightly. Turn into sterile jars, cool, seal with hot paraffin, 
cover with tin covers. 

NOTE : The sugar must be added last as long boiling reduces the sweetness 
and changes the color to a caramel brown. Why ? 

Yellow Tomato Marmalade 

Ingredients : 

7 Ibs. ripe yellow tomatoes 5 Ibs. granulated sugar 

7 lemons 
Method: 

Weigh tomatoes after peeling. Slice yellow skins of lemon in 
thin pieces. Discard white skin and cut pulp in small pieces. Boil 
until the sirup is thick and jelly like. 



40 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Spiced Grapes 

Ingredients : 

6 Ibs. grapes i^ c. vinegar 

cinnamon 
3 Ibs. sugar | c. mixed spice cloves 

allspice 
Method: 

Wash grapes and remove from stems. Put pulp into saucepan 
(save the skins). Cook pulp until seeds can be removed. Turn 
into colander and press pulp through, add skins and other ingredients 
and cook until skins are soft and mixture thick and jellylike. 



Gingered Pears I 

Ingredients: 

4 Ibs. pears cut in thin slices 3 Ibs. sugar 

2 lemons Ib. green ginger root 

i qt. water 
Method: 

Cook pears, lemons cut in fine slices, and chopped ginger root until 
the fruit is almost transparent. Add the sugar and boil gently until 
the sirup jellies and fruit is clear and transparent. 



Gingered Pears II 

Ingredients: 

8 Ibs. pears (Seckel) i Ib. crystallized ginger 

4 Ibs. sugar 3 lemons 

Method: 

Wash, core, and slice the pears in thick pieces. Add the sugar and 
crystallized ginger cut in small pieces. Allow the mixture to stand 
24 hours. Add lemon, sliced very thin, and cook mixture until sirup 
is thick and jellylike. Serve with ice cream. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 41 

Rhubarb Conserve I 

Ingredients : 

5 Ibs. rhubarb 4 Ibs. sugar 

4 oranges. 3 qts. water 

Method: 

Wash and cut the rhubarb into one-half inch pieces. Scrub the 
oranges, slice through the rind into very thin sections, being careful 
to remove all seeds. Cook the rhubarb and sliced orange together 
for 1 5 minutes, adding a very little water if necessary to prevent the 
fruit from burning. 

Add the 3 qts. water and 4 Ibs. sugar and allow the mixture to 
boil gently until sirup is thick and jellylike. 



Rhubarb Conserve II 

Ingredients : 

4 Ibs. rhubarb i lemon 

i Ib. raisins 2 oranges 

4 Ibs. sugar 
Method: 

Wash and cut rhubarb into one-half inch pieces. Boil rhubarb, 
raisins, and sugar gently 20 minutes, add juice of oranges and lemon 
and the rind of the orange. Boil until sirup is thick and jellylike. 



Apricot Conserve 

Ingredients : 

i Ib. dried apricots 3 pineapples 

i^ qts. water i c. Sultana raisins 

sugar i c. water 

Method: 

Wash the apricots and soak them in cold water overnight. Using 
this same water, cook them until soft. Press pulp through a colander. 
Shred the pineapple and cook in a small quantity of water until 
soft. Combine the cooked fruits and raisins. Weigh and add half 
as much sugar. Add i c. water and cook until sirup is thick and 
jellylike. 



42 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Pineapple and Cherry Preserves 

Ingredients : 

i Ib. pineapple ij Ib. sugar 

| Ib. white cherries i c. water 

Method: 

Cut the pineapple in thin slices. Wash and stone the cherries and 
add the pineapple. Add the sugar and cook until mixture is thick 
and sirup is jellylike. 

Grape Conserve 

Ingredients : 

9 Ibs. grapes \ Ib. walnuts 

i Ib. raisins 4 Ibs. sugar 

Method: 

Boil skins until tender. Heat pulp until seeds can be easily re- 
moved. Add raisins to skins and pulp and boil until consistency of 
marmalade. Add nuts five minutes before removing from fire. 

Plum Conserve 

Ingredients : 

3 Ibs. pitted plums i Ib. walnuts 

1 Ib. raisins 3 oranges 

3 Ibs. sugar 
Method: 

Wash and cut plums in pieces. Add chopped raisins, and oranges, 
and boil until the consistency of marmalade. Add nuts five minutes 
before removing from fire. 

Cherry Conserve 

Ingredients : 

2 qts. currants i qt. sour cherries 
2 qts. red raspberries | Ib. walnut meats 

2 qts. sugar 
Method: 

Stem the currants, pit cherries, and boil all ingredients except nuts 
until consistency of marmalade. Add nuts five minutes before re- 
moving from fire. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 43 

Mustard Pickle 

Ingredients : 

i qt. cucumbers sliced ^ c. salt 

i qt. small cucumbers 2 qts. vinegar 

1 qt. small onions 3 c. brown sugar 

2 heads cauliflower i c. flour 

i green pepper 2 tbsp. mustard 

2 tbsp. turmeric 
Method: 

Cover the vegetables with salted water and let stand overnight. 
In the morning, cook in the same water until tender, then drain. 
Make a paste by cooking together the other ingredients, then 
add the drained vegetables. When sufficiently thick, put hi wide- 
mouthed sterilized jars or bottles. 



Chili Sauce 

Ingredients : 

12 ripe tomatoes 2 c. vinegar 

i pepper, finely chopped 3 tbsp. sugar 

i onion i tbsp. salt 

2 tsp. each, cloves, cinnamon, allspice. 
Method: 

Cook f hour or until mixture is reduced J. 



Sweet Pickle 

Ingredients : 

7 Ibs. fruit i qt. vinegar 

3! Ibs. sugar 2 oz. cloves 

2 oz. cinnamon 

Method: 

Make a sirup and cook fruit in it until soft. Remove the fruit 
with a perforated spoon. Boil down the sirup and pour over the 
fruit in stone or glass jars. 

NOTE : Crabapples, peaches, pears, or Seckel pears may be used. 



44 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Pickled Tomatoes 

Ingredients : 

i pk. green tomatoes 2^ qts. vinegar 

1 c. salt 2 Ibs. brown sugar 

2 qts. vinegar | Ib. white mustard seed 

1 qt. water 

2 tbsp. each of cloves, cinnamon, ginger, black pepper. 

Method: 

Cut the tomatoes in one-fourth inch slices, and let stand over- 
night with one cup of salt. In the morning, drain and add two 
quarts of vinegar and one quart of water. Boil fifteen minutes, then 
drain. 

Take two and one half quarts of vinegar, brown sugar, mustard 
seed, and spices. Boil tomatoes in this fifteen minutes. Then turn 
all into a stone jar. 

Cucumber Pickle 

Ingredients : 

100 medium cucumbers | c. black mustard seed 

i qt. onions \ c. white mustard seed 

i c. olive oil 
Method: 

Wash, peel, and slice the vegetables. Cover with brine (i c. salt 
and 4 qts. boiling water), let stand 2 hours and drain. 

Mix oil and mustard seed and cover with hot vinegar. Add to 
the vegetables. Seal in sterilized cans. 

Red Pepper Pickle 

Ingredients : 

% pk. red peppers i qt. vinegar 

boiling water 2 c. sugar 

Method: 

Wash peppers, remove seeds, and shred. Cover with boiling 
water for 5 minutes. Drain, pack in sterilized jars, and cover with a 
sirup made of the vinegar and sugar. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 45 

SCORE CARD 

Canned Fruits 

General appearance 15 

Container (5) 
Color (10) 

Fruit 50 

Whole (5) 

Cooked (20) 
Flavor (25) 

Sirup 35 

Clearness (10) 
Flavor (15) 

Density (10) 

100 

Preserves 

General appearance 30 

Container (10) 
Color (20) 

Mixture 70 

Consistency (15) 
Flavor (40) 

Density (15) 

100 

REFERENCES 
Canning and Preserving 

ADAMS and SANDSTER. Practical Directions for Preserving Native 

Fruits and Vegetables. University of Wisconsin, Agricultural 

Experiment Station, Bulletin No. 136 (1906). 
BITTING. The Canning of Foods. United States Department of 

Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin No. 151 (1912). 
BREAZEALE. Canning of Vegetables in the Home. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, 359 (1910). 
BUCHANAN. Household Bacteriology. 



46 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

CORBETT. Canned Foods, Fruits, and Vegetables. Teachers Col- 
lege Bulletin, Fourth Series No. 12, February 15, 1913. 

GOLDTHWAITE. Principles of Jelly Making. University of Illi- 
nois, Bulletin No. 34 (1912). 

GOLDTHWAITE. Chemistry and Physics of Jelly-making. Journal 
of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, vol. i, pages 333- 
340; vol. 2, pages 457-462 (1909-1910). 

GOULD and RETCHER. Canning Peaches on the Farm. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, No. 426 
(1910). 

HATTON and HOLT. Canning of Fruits and Vegetables. Georgia 
State College of Agriculture, Bulletin No. n. 

HAUSMANN. Home Manufacture and Use of Unfermented Grape 
Juice. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' 
Bulletin, No. 175 (1903). 

KINNE and COOLEY. Foods and Household Management. 

LEACH. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

NYE and AUSTIN. A Canning Business for the Farm Home. Cor- 
nell University Bulletin, vol. 2, No. 47. 

PARLOA. Canned Fruit, Preserves, and Jellies. United States 
Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, 203 (1905). 

ROSE. The Preservation of Food in the Home. Cornell University 
Bulletin, vol. i No. 17. 

SHERMAN. Food Products. 

WILEY. Foods and their Adulteration. 



CHAPTER IV 
CEREALS 

CEREALS and the various products made from grains form 
one of the most important foods for man. For the majority 
of people they furnish more nutriment than does any other 
class of food materials. Cereals have been denned as grasses, 1 
the grains of which are used for food. There are on the market 
many cereal preparations, cooked or uncooked, but these are 
made from a limited number of cereal grains and the properties 
of each preparation are dependent upon those of the cereal from 
which it is derived. 

A cereal grain is a kernel 2 containing a relatively small germ 
rich in protein and fat, and a relatively large endosperm con- 
taining much starch, little fat, and a moderate amount of pro- 
tein, the whole inclosed in a fibrous covering called the bran. 
The bran consists of several layers, the outermost being of little 
food value, while the " aleurone layer " (which lies between the 
fibrous covering and the starchy interior but is apt to be re- 
jected with the bran in ordinary milling processes) is rich in 
protein and in phosphorus, calcium, and iron compounds of 
much value in nutrition. A " whole grain " product is there- 
fore a more complete food than the " finer " product made 
from the endosperm only, but the latter (largely because it is 
poor in protein, fat, and ash constituents) is apt to keep longer 
than the former. 

1 Since a few of the edible grains, such as buckwheat, are seeds of plants not be- 
longing to the grass family, the term "grains" is somewhat broader than "cereals." 

2 See Sherman's Food Products, pages 270-272, for description and illustra- 
tions of the structure of the wheat kernel. 

47 



48 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

The percentage composition of the different grains and of the 
various products manufactured from them may be found in 
Bulletin 28, Office of Experiment Stations, U. S. Department of 
Agriculture, or in Sherman's Food Products, Chapter VIII. 

How to purchase cereals: Cereals do not keep well after being 
opened, as parasites are apt to appear. Therefore, purchase a small 
stock at a time. Cereals in bulk are cheaper; but not always as clean 
as those sold in packages. Grocers should be encouraged to keep 
bulk cereals in bins or other containers which are dust-proof and 
insect-proof. 

Reasons for cooking cereals : 

1. Softens the cellulose. 

2. Bursts the starch grains. 

3. Increases the palatability. 

Methods of cooking : 
Boiling in water or milk ; example, rice. 
Steaming in water or milk ; example, corn meal. 
Heat in the oven; example, corn flakes. 
Toast; example, shredded wheat. 

Methods of serving : 
Hot. Cold. 

Puddings. Thickening for croquettes. 
Fritters. Browned Slices. 

Variations in serving : 

Cream and sugar. Cream. 
Butter and sugar. Butter. 
Prune sauce. Apple sauce or sirup. 
Maple sugar. Corn sirup. 
Fresh fruit. Dried fruit. 
Creamed beef. Pudding sauce. 

Differences in consistency: 
Breakfast cereal. Mush. 
Porridge. Gruel. 
Cereal water. 






CEREALS 49 

EXPERIMENTS 

49. Make the following tests with iodine. See page 13. 

^ tsp. dry cornstarch 
| tsp. moist cornstarch 
^ tsp. cooked cornstarch 
Observe change in color of iodine. 

50. Make the same test with iodine, using the following cereals, 
cooked, moist, raw : 

rice cream of wheat 

corn meal wheat flour 

shredded wheat force 

51. Wash a little rice and test the water with iodine. See page 
13. Result? Why do you observe a change? 

52. Collect a little saliva in test tubes. Add to this small 
amounts of the cooked and uncooked cereal, let stand in warm water 
ten minutes. Test part with iodine and part with Fehling-Benedict 
solution (page 13). Conclusion? 

53. We have shown that starch is present in large quantities ; 
we will now compare the thickening qualities of the following cereals : 

corn meal rolled oats 

cream of wheat rice 

Use j c. each of the above cereals. Mix each in saucepans 
of uniform size and shape with : 

a. i c. cold water. Bring to boiling point and boil 1 5 minutes. 

b. i c. boiling water. Boil 15 minutes. 

c. In each case how much water must be added to prevent 
burning and to reduce to the consistency of breakfast cereal ? 

d. What individual variations in the thoroughness of cook- 
ing appear at the end of the 15 minutes? 

e. Is it best to start cereals cooking in boiling or cold water ? 
/. Make a table of the amount of water required with each 

of the cereals used. Reduce it in each case by f and again cook f c. 
of the cereals, this time using a double boiler. 
E 



50 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

g. Why was the amount of water reduced? 

h. Compare the products when saucepan and double boiler 
are used. 

t. What advantages has the double boiler? 

54. When should salt be added to the cereal? 

a. Measure two portions of rice, A and B, J c. in each 
portion. 

b. Steam A in double boiler, adding salt to the rice as 
usual. 

c. Steam B in double boiler, salting rice as in A, but also 
adding rock salt to the water in lower part, in the proportion of 2 
tbsp. to i c. water. Note the temperature of the water in lower 
part of double boiler in each case. 

d. Compare the length of time required for the cooking of 
the rice in each case. How do you explain the difference? 

55. a. Steam the following cereals, using milk as compared with 
water for the liquid : 

milk water 

cream of wheat cream of wheat 

oatmeal oatmeal 

corn meal corn meal 

rice rice 

b. Compare as to taste, color. What possible objection could 
be raised to the long cooking of milk when used as a liquid with 
cereals? Is it a vital objection? 

56. a. Use \ c. rolled oats plus the requisite amount of water for 
breakfast cereal as decided upon in Expt. 53 /. 

Cook \ the amount of oatmeal and water in the fireless 
cooker. 

Cook the other half in the pressure cooker. 

b. Note the length of time required in each case to cook 
the cereal. 

Explain the differences in length of time. 

c. What is the consistency of the cereal? Why? 



CEREALS 



57. Reduce the amount of water by | and cook the cereal in both 
pressure and fireless cooker. Note the consistency of this mixture. 

58. Repeat until the proper amount of water per unit of cereal 
is determined for each cooker. 

59. Determine the proper amount of water to be used per unit of : 

corn meal rice 

cream of wheat malt 

60. Compute the economy in time, fuel, and labor when the pres- 
sure and fireless cookers are used. 

61. Compute the length of time in which each cooker would pay 
for itself in the cost of fuel sa.ved. 

Compare the results obtained in the above experiments with the 
corresponding data in the following tabular summary and discuss any 
points which may not seem to agree. 

THE COOKING OF CEREALS (TABULAR SUMMARY) 



CEREAL 


AMOUNT 

OF 

WATER 


SALT 


TIME 


c. rolled oats 


3 c. 


tsp. 


30-60 minutes 


c. coarse oatmeal 


4 c. 


tsp. 


3 hours or more 


c. granular cereals (except corn meal) 


4-6 c. 


tsp. 


30-60 minutes 


c. corn meal 


fft 


tsp. 


60 minutes 


c. rice boiled 


8c. 


tsp. 


20-30 minutes 


c. rice steamed 


2 C. 


tsp. 


i hour or more 



General rules. Remove any foreign substances from cereal. A 
fireless cooker is efficient, but a double boiler is the best utensil for 
cooking cereals. Fill lower part f full of boiling water. It must be 
kept rapidly boiling while cereal is cooking. If more water is needed 
before the cooking is completed, boiling water should be used. 

Add cereal slowly to rapidly boiling salted water in upper part of 
double boiler and stir constantly until it thickens, cooking directly 
over the fire. Place over boiling water to finish cooking. Rice 
should be washed before cooking. 



52 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

COMBINATIONS or CEREALS AND FRUITS 

Apples in Sirup with Rice I 

Ingredients : 

i c. boiling water stick cinnamon 

i c. sugar apples 

Method: 

Boil sugar, cinnamon, and water together three minutes. 

Wash apples, core, pare, and quarter and boil in the sirup until 
tender. Remove apples from sirup as soon as transparent and con- 
tinue boiling until a medium-thick sirup is formed. Arrange apples 
attractively around a mound or mold of cereal and pour sirup over 
all. 

Apples in Sirup with Rice n 

Method : 

Steam rice in individual molds. Turn out and surround with 
stewed apples cut in eighths. Uncooked fruits, as oranges, bananas, 
or strawberries, may be used. 



Apples in Sirup with Oatmeal 

Method : 

Stew pared, cored apples and fill cavities with cooked oatmeal 
mixed with chopped dates. Pour sirup over apples and serve with 
whipped cream. This may be served for breakfast or as a simple 
dessert for luncheon. 



Oatmeal with Dates 

Ingredients : 

\ c. oatmeal | Ib. dates 

\ tsp. salt 1 1 c. water 

Method I: 

Prepare oatmeal as usual. When half cooked, add dates, washed, 
stoned, and cut in halves ; or when oatmeal is cooked, add dates finely 
chopped. 



CEREALS 



53 



Method II: 

Wash, stone, and cut dates in quarters lengthwise. Using a custard 
cup prepare a mold by first dipping in cold water. Press pieces of 
dates against sides of cup, radiating from center like petals. Care- 
fully turn in cereal and cool. Serve with cream. 

NOTE : Cream of wheat, wheatena, and farina may be used with dates. 
Raisins, figs, or prunes may be substituted for dates. 



FARINACEOUS DESSERTS 



Ingredients : 

f c pearl or minute tapioca 

cold water 
, , ... 
2f c. boiling water 

tsp. salt 

Method : 



Apple Tapioca 



f Fresh Qr 

. peaches or 
7 sour apples < L . , ., 
other fruits 

, 
[ may be used. 

c. sugar 



Soak tapioca one hour in cold water to cover, drain, add boiling 
water and salt ; cook in double boiler until transparent. Core and 
pare apples, arrange in buttered pudding dish, fill cavities with sugar, 
pour over tapioca and bake in moderate oven until apples are soft. 
Serve with sugar and cream. Do not soak minute tapioca. 



Cornstarch Pudding 

Ingredients : 

i pt. milk scalded \ tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. cornstarch J c. cold milk 

4 tbsp. sugar \ tsp. vanilla 

Method: 
Plain 

Make paste of cornstarch, salt, sugar, and cold milk. Add to 
scalded milk slowly, stirring constantly. Stir until smooth, then 
cover and cook 45 minutes in double boiler. Add vanilla and pour 



54 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

into molds previously wet with cold water. Serve cold with cream 
and sugar. 

Chocolate 

Melt chocolate. Add scalded milk gradually. Finish as in plain 
pudding. If eggs are used, beat and add the cornstarch mixture 
slowly to them. Return to double boiler and cook 3 minutes, stirring 
constantly. 

Additions 

whites 2 eggs, or yolks 2 eggs, or 

2 squares chocolate 

Use i tbsp. cornstarch to i c. milk for soft pudding. 
Use 2 tbsp. cornstarch to i c. milk to mold. 

Baked Indian Pudding 

Ingredients : 

i qt. milk f c. corn meal 

\ tbsp. ginger \ c. molasses 

i egg i tbsp. butter 

| tsp. salt 
Method: 

Scald the milk and add the molasses and butter. Mix the corn 
meal, ginger, and salt and pour the liquid over dry ingredients. Beat 
in the egg and pour the mixture into a buttered baking dish. Bake 
two hours in a moderate oven. 



Coffee Sago Pudding 

Ingredients : 

2 c. boiled coffee \ c. sugar 

| c. sago | tsp. salt 

Method: 

Wash sago in cold water; add coffee and cook in double boiler 
until sago is transparent. Add sugar and salt. Serve with cream 
and sugar or soft custard. Coffee Sago may be served hot or 
cold. 



CEREALS 55 

Orange Pudding 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. cornstarch 2 c. boiling water 

i c. sugar i tbsp. butter 

\ tsp. salt juice of i lemon 

3 oranges 
Method: 
Prepare cornstarch pudding and pour over sliced oranges. 

Rice Pudding 

Ingredients : 

i qt. milk | tsp. salt 

\ c. rice \ c. sugar 

i tsp. vanilla \ c. raisins 

Method: 

Wash rice, place in a buttered pan, add other ingredients except 
raisins. Bake slowly several hours, stirring occasionally. Add 
raisins when done. 



Shredded Wheat Pudding 

Ingredients : 

2 c. hot milk ^ c. molasses 

i shredded wheat biscuit f tsp. salt 

i egg tsp. cinnamon 

Method: 

Combine ingredients and bake in a moderate oven until firm. 
Serve with cream. 

GRUELS 

Gruels are liquid preparations of finely ground grain products. 
Long cooking in a double boiler is necessary to make the starch 
soluble or to partly dextrinize it. 



56 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Arrowroot Gruel 

Ingredients : 

2 tsp. arrowroot i c. boiling water or milk 

2 tbsp. cold water salt 

Method: (for all, same as given for cereals on page 51). 



Ingredients : 

1 tbsp. barley flour 

2 tbsp. cold water 



Barley Gruel 

i c. scalded milk 
salt 



Ingredients : 

1 tbsp. corn meal 

2 tbsp. cold water 



Corn Meal Gruel 



c. boiling water 



salt 



Oatmeal Gruel 

Ingredients: 

\ c. coarse oatmeal i| c. boiling water 

\ tsp. salt milk to thin it to right consistency 

REFERENCES 
Grain Products 

BIRDSEYE. Rice and Rice Cookery. Cornell University Bulletin, 

vol. 3, January i, 1914. 
Cereal Foods. Maine Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 

118 (1905). 
Cereals and How to Cook Them. The University of Nebraska, 

Home Studies Series No. 2. 
Cereals and Other Starchy Foods, Demonstration. Iowa State 

College of Agriculture. Extension department, Short course 

class notes no. 5. 
DAY, EDNA. Digestibility of Starch of Different Sorts as Affected 

by Cooking. United States Department of Agriculture, Farm- 
ers' Bulletin, 202 (1908). 



CEREALS 57 

FOULK, ELMA. Ohio State University. The Agricultural College, 

Home Makers Reading Course No. 2. 
HUNT. The Cereals in America. 
LANGWORTHY and HUNT. Corn Meal as a Food and Ways of Using 

it. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, 

565 (1914)- 
LANGWORTHY and HUNT. Use of Corn, Kafir and Cow Peas in the 

Home. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' 

Bulletin, 559 (1913). 
LEACH. Food Inspection and Analysis. 
MERRILL. Indian Corn as Food for Man. Maine Agricultural 

Experiment Station, Bulletin 131 (1906). 

PATTEE. Practical Dietetics with Reference to Diet in Disease. 
SHERMAN. Food Products. 
WILEY. Cereals and Cereal Products. Part 9 of Bulletin 13 of 

the Bureau of Chemistry, United States Department of Agri- 
culture. 
WOODS and SNYDER. Cereal Breakfast Foods. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, 249 (1911). 
WOODS. Food Value of Corn and Corn Products. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, 298 (1907). 



CHAPTER V 
VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 

VEGETABLES cover a class of foods some of which are fruits, 
some roots, leaves, stalks, seeds, bulbs, and tubers. A classi- 
fication of vegetables is given below. Like the fruits, the vege- 
tables vary greatly in their general composition. Some, like 
the legumes, are characterized by high protein content ; others, 
including the roots and tubers, by high carbohydrate content ; 
still others, including most of the leaves, stalks, and bulbs, by 
high cellulose and water content. All vegetables, however, are 
rich in one or more of the ash constituents such as iron, calcium, 
and phosphorus, which are now known to play an important 
part in nutrition. (See Sherman's Food Products, pages 324- 
329, for percentage composition, and pages 347-349 for 
percentage of ash in the edible portion.) 

Classification : 

a. According to the part of the plant used for food. 

b. Character of juice sweet, strong. 

c. Character of plant starchy, watery. 

d. Fresh, dried, canned. 

a. Part of the plant : 

Leaves lettuce, water cress, spinach, cabbage, dandelion, kale, 
Swiss chard, beet tops, turnip tops. 

Stalks asparagus, celery, rhubarb. 

Bulbs onion, Bermuda, Spanish, Egyptian; garlic, leek, 
shallot, chives. 

Seaweeds Irish moss, agar or Ceylon moss. 
58 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 59 

Tubers potatoes, Jerusalem artichokes, dasheen corms. 

Tuberous roots sweet potatoes, yams, cassava, arrowroot. 

Succulent roots turnips, beets, kohl-rabi, radishes, carrots, 
parsnips, oyster plant. 

Flowers cauliflower, French artichoke. 

Fruits tomatoes, cucumber, squash, pumpkins, okra, corn, 
peppers, eggplant. 

Seeds peas, beans, lentils. 

b. Character of juice : 

sweet strong 

celery onions 

carrots cabbage 

beets turnips 

r 

c. Character of plant: 

starchy watery 

potatoes cabbage 

parsnips tomatoes 

cucumbers 

Points to emphasize. Select medium-sized vegetables and wash 
carefully. Soak cauliflower in salt water before cooking. Soak 
wilted vegetables in cold water. Cook summer vegetables as soon 
after gathering as possible. If necessary to keep, place in refrigera- 
tor or in a cool cellar. Keep winter vegetables in barrels or bins in 
a dry, cold place. Empty canned vegetables as soon as opened, and 
let stand exposed to the air a few minutes to become aerated. Vege- 
tables lack fat in any quantity, therefore it is well to combine them 
with butter, oil, or cream. It saves time to cook a double portion 
of a vegetable and reheat the next day in another form. 

Reasons for cooking vegetables : 

To sterilize any from doubtful sources. 

To soften cellulose. 

To make starch more easily digestible. 

To develop or modify flavors. 

To give a variety of attractive ways of serving. 



60 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Ways of serving vegetables: 

Boiled with butter Mashed 

Creamed Puddings (Irish moss) 

Croquettes Salads 

Scalloped with cheese Souffles 

Fritters Soups 

General rules for cooking. Wash thoroughly, pare or scrape if 
skins must be removed. Let stand in cold water until cooked to 
keep crisp and prevent discoloration. Pare onions under cold water 
to absorb the odor. Cut tops of beets i inch from beet. Use one 
tsp. salt to i qt. boiling water. Add salt when vegetables are half 
cooked. The water in which vegetables are cooked is called vege- 
table stock and may be used with milk in the preparation of white 
sauce for vegetables with sweet juice. Cook strong-juiced vegetables 
uncovered in a large amount of water, sweet-juiced covered in a 
small amount of water. The color may be kept in green vegetables 
by pouring cold water through them after draining. Drain vege- 
tables as soon as tender. Cold vegetables may be used in salads, 
combined with white sauce as " creamed vegetables," or white sauce 
and buttered crumbs as " scalloped vegetables." 

EXPERIMENTS 
Potato 

62. Prepare two very thin slices of white potato, one lengthwise 
and one across. 

Hold against a strong light. 

Observe markings and lines. What are they? 

Make a drawing. 

See Sherman's Food Products, pages 320-321, 322. 

63. Do the same with carrot, turnip, and onion. 
Compare and state conclusions. 

64. Wash, pare, and grate into a bowl a good-sized white potato. 
Make a microscopic examination of a particle of the pulp in a drop 

of water, before and after treatment with a drop of dilute iodine 
solution. See page 13. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 6l 

65. Pour pulp and fluid from Expt. 64 into a wet cheesecloth 
over a bowl of cold water. 

Draw the cloth together and knead the mass in the water. 

To what is the milky color of the water due? 

Test a little of the water with iodine. 

Boil a little. 

What changes do you observe? Explain. 

66. Change the water and continue washing the pulp from Expts. 
64 and 65 until the water is only slightly milky or clear. Save each 
water. 

Open cheesecloth and examine content. 
What does this explain as to the structure of the potato ? 
What does this explain as to the cooking of potato and other starchy 
vegetables ? 

67. Observe the water and starch which has been standing. 
Decant off the water and turn sediment on to a filter paper to dry. 
Note the clear white color of the sediment. Note the brown color 

of liquid. To what is this due? (See experiments with Apple.) 

68. Add fresh cold water to a portion of the sediment "obtained in 
Expt. 67; stir until particles are all suspended. Dip in a piece of 
white muslin and iron while still wet. When have you observed this 
same result ? 

69. Add freshly boiling water to the sediment in one bowl. Stir 
the mixture constantly. 

How does this compare with Expt. 68? 

Dip a piece of muslin in, allow it to dry, sprinkle, and iron. 

70. Repeat Expts. 68 and 69, using carrot and turnip. 
Compare and state conclusions. 

Dextrinized Starch 

71. a. Dextrinize one tbsp. flour by heating the flour in a dry 
utensil. 

b. Test with iodine. (See page 13.) 

c. Add water to make a solution. 

d. Does the color turn? 



62 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

e. Why not? 

/. Does the dextrin appear to be more or less soluble than 
flour or starch in cold water ? 

g. Explain your answer. 

72. a. Thicken c. cold water with i tbsp. flour. 

b. Thicken | c. cold water with i tbsp. dextrinized flour 
(boil each). 

c. Which mixture is thickest? Why? 

Starchy Vegetables 

Vegetables may be prepared for cooking processes by peeling or 
scraping. Peeling is more often done carelessly than carefully. 
Have ready the following vegetables : 

white potato sweet potato 

carrot turnip 

parsnip 

73. Wash, scrub with a brush, and weigh each vegetable. 
Estimate the waste in the preparation of each vegetable by the 

following methods: 

a. scraping 

b. peeling carefully 

c. peeling in the usual manner 
Which method is the more economical? 

Cooking of Vegetables 

74. Have washed and scrubbed the following vegetables : 

a. white potato 

b. sweet potato 

c. carrot 

Prepare each by : 

a. peeling 

b. scraping 

c. scrubbing, but not removing skin 

a. Boil each vegetable, prepared in the three ways. 

b. Note the length of time of cooking. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 63 

c. Compare as to color, texture, and flavor. 

d. Note the length of time and ease in removing the skin of the 
cooked vegetable as compared with peeling an uncooked vegetable. 

e. Test the water in each case for starch, protein, sugar, and 
mineral matter. By which method of preparation is most food value 
lost ? Why ? What are your conclusions ? 

75. Use the same kinds of vegetables prepared for cooking by 
peeling, scraping, and scrubbing. , 

Bake in a hot oven. Note the time of baking, appearance, texture, 
color, taste in each case. 
Which method of preparation for baking vegetables is best ? Why ? 

Green Vegetables 

Green vegetables are prepared for cooking or fresh for the table 
by washing in several waters to remove sand, parasites, etc. 

76. Wash the following vegetables : 

lettuce celery spinach 

green peas string beans onions 

cauliflower 

Arrange samples of each green vegetable as follows : 

a. Soak in cold water i hour in room. 

b. Soak in ice water i hour in refrigerator. 

c. Soak in salted cold water (2 tsp. salt to i pt. water) i hour 
in room, 

d. Soak in salted ice water (2 tsp. salt to i pt. ice water) 
i hour in refrigerator. 

f i tsp. lemon juice 1 

e. Soak in acid water < . J > to i pt. ice water 

1 1 tsp. vinegar J 

in refrigerator i hour. 

Note the crispness in each case. 

Is there any change in color or flavor ? 

77. Boil samples of each vegetable in the following manner : 

a. Large quantity of water. No cover. 

b. Small amount of water. Cover tightly. 

c. Small amount of water. No cover. 



64 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Compare the length of time of cooking in each case. 
Contrast color, flavor, attractiveness. 
Which method is best for each vegetable ? 
Why? 

78. Prepare spinach by cooking in double boiler, using no water 
in upper part. Enough moisture will be furnished by the water 
which clings to the spinach in washing and also the water in the plant. 

Compare with that boiled in water. 

79. What nutrients are lost by cooking green vegetables in 
water? 

Prove this by testing the water. The cooperation of the chemistry 
laboratory should be sought, and distilled water should be used in 
boiling the vegetables. 

Cookers 

80. a. Prepare several kinds of roots and tubers (e.g. potatoes, 
carrots, sweet potatoes, beets, turnips, parsnips) in both the fireless 
and the pressure cooker. Note the temperature used for each cooker. 

b. Note the length of time required in each case to cook 
each vegetable and the amount of water necessary. 

c. Contrast the amount of water used and explain the 
difference. 

d. Compute the difference in labor, time, and fuel. 

81. Repeat Expt. 80, using leafy vegetables (e.g. spinach, cabbage) 
and report results in the same way. 

82. Experiment similarly with onions, cauliflower, and other 
vegetables. , 

Summarize the evidence as to relative merits of the two methods 
for each kind of vegetable. Are there any vegetables for which 
either cooker would not be suitable? 

Buttered Beets 

Ingredients : 

6 beets (cooked) 2 tbsp. sugar 

2 tbsp. butter i tbsp. vinegar 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 65 

Method : 

Prepare the cooked beets in f in. slices and place in baking dish. 
Melt the butter, add the sugar and vinegar and allow mixture to 
come to the boiling point. Pour the sirup over the beets and place 
baking dish in moderately hot oven for ten minutes. 

Glazed Carrots with Peas 

Ingredients : 

| c. butter 2 c. peas 

tbsp. sugar 6 carrots 

Method: 

Prepare carrots, cut in strips and boil 15 minutes. Drain, return 
to saucepan, add butter and sugar, cover and cook slowly until 
tender. Add the cooked peas (canned may be used) and season. 

Corn Pudding 

Ingredients : 

2 c. corn i tbsp. sugar 

2 egg yolks i tbsp. butter 

i tbsp. flour i c. milk 

| tsp. salt f tsp. pepper 

2 egg whites 
Method: 

Melt the butter, add the sugar, flour, and milk. Let heat until 
mixture reaches boiling point. Add the slightly beaten egg yolks, 
then corn, salt and pepper. Fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites, 
pour into a buttered baking dish, and bake in a moderate oven 30-40 
minutes. Serve at once. 

Buttered Cabbage 

Ingredients : 

i cabbage 2 tbsp. melted butter 

salt water 

Method: 

Separate the cabbage leaves, wash and place in boiling salted 
water. Boil until leaves are tender. Drain the water from the 
leaves, place them in serving dish and add melted butter. Serve hot. 

F 



66 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Cabbage with Ham 

Ingredients : 

i cabbage ^ Ib. cooked ham 

water 
Method: 

Separate and wash the cabbage leaves. Place in boiling water, 
adding the cooked ham. AUow all to boil until cabbage is tender. 
Drain water from the leaves, arrange cabbage on serving dish, and 
garnish with ham. 

NOTE : Bacon may be substituted for ham. 

Creamed Cabbage 

Ingredients : 

1 cabbage i c. vinegar 

2 egg yolks J c. water 
^ tbsp. butter i c. cream 

Method: 

Separate the cabbage leaves, wash and cut them in thin pieces 
and cook in boiling salted water. Prepare a custard of the yolks of 
eggs, water, vinegar, and butter. Cook the mixture in a double 
boiler and as it thickens add the cream. When custard is thick, pour 
it over the cabbage in a serving dish. Serve hot. 



Stuffed Baked Potatoes 

Ingredients : 

6 baked potatoes 3 tbsp. hot milk 

2 tbsp. butter \ tsp. salt 

\ tsp. white pepper 
Method: 

Cut the potatoes in halves, lengthwise ; then without breaking the 
skin remove the inside. Mash with a fork, season, and return to 
shells, keeping it light and fluffy. Place on a pan in a hot oven until 
light brown. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 67 

Potato Apples 

Ingredients : 

2 c. hot riced potatoes cayenne 

2 tbsp. butter grating of nutmeg 

^ c. grated cheese yolks 2 eggs or i whole egg 

Method: 

Mix ingredients in order given, and beat thoroughly. Shape in 
form of small apples, roll in flour, egg and crumbs, fry in deep fat. 
Insert a clove at stem and blossom end. 

Potato Puff 

Ingredients : 

2 c. mashed potatoes 2 tbsp. melted butter 

2 eggs i c. cream 

| tsp. salt 
Method: 

Beat the potatoes, eggs, and cream until the mixture is smooth and 
light. Add the melted butter and salt. Pour mixture into a buttered 
baking dish and bake in a hot oven until it is well risen and brown. 

Potato Souffle 

Ingredients : 

4 large white potatoes | c. milk 

i tbsp. butter j.tsp. pepper 

4 egg whites 4 egg yolks 

i tsp. salt 

Method: 

Boil and rice the potatoes. Add the milk, butter, salt, pepper, and 
yolks of eggs. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs and pour the 
mixture into a buttered baking dish. Bake in a moderate oven until 
the surface is browned. 

Sweet Potato Puff 

Ingredients : 

6 sweet potatoes 2 tbsp. butter 

whites 2 eggs | tsp. salt 



68 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Boil and mash the sweet potatos. Add the butter, salt, and stiffly 
beaten whites of eggs. Pour the mixture into buttered custard 
cups placed in boiling water. Bake in a hot oven twenty minutes. 
Serve in the cups with a parsley garnish. 

Glazed Sweet Potato I 

Ingredients : 

6 medium-sized potatoes | c. sugar 

\ c. water i tbsp. butter 

Method: 

Wash and pare sweet potatoes. Cook ten minutes in boiling 
salted water. Drain, cut in halves lengthwise, and put in a buttered 
pan. Make a sirup of sugar, water; add butter. Brush potatoes 
with sirup and bake 15 minutes, basting twice with remaining sirup. 

Glazed Sweet Potato II 

Ingredients : 

6 medium-sized boiled sweet potatoes 

| c. butter i c. sugar 

hot water salt 

Method: 

Melt butter in a frying pan, add sugar and a little salt gradually 
to allow sugar to melt and form a brown sirup. Add enough hot 
water to reduce to a thin sirup. Cut potatoes in lengthwise slices, 
place in pan and heat over fire, basting constantly until they show a 
rich golden glaze. Serve at once. 

Browned Parsnips 

. Ingredients : 

cold, boiled parsnips pepper 

butter salt 

Method: 

Cut parsnips in lengthwise slices. Place in butter until well 
browned. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 69 

Stuffed Peppers 

Ingredients : 

6 green peppers 3 tbsp. crumbs 

1 onion 8 tbsp. chopped ham 

2 tbsp. butter salt 

\ c. brown sauce pepper 

Method: 

Cut a slice from stem end or cut peppers lengthwise. Remove all 
seeds and parboil 10 minutes. Do not leave in water. Cut onion 
in small pieces and brown in butter. Add sauce and bread crumbs. 
Sprinkle with pepper and salt. Fill peppers with mixture. Cover 
with buttered crumbs and bake 10 minutes in a hot oven. 



Winter Squash 

Steamed : 

Cut squash in pieces, remove seeds and stringy portion, and pare. 
Steam until soft. Mash and season with butter, salt, and pepper. 

Baked: 

Cut in 2-inch pieces, remove seeds and stringy portion, place in a 
pan, cover and bake until soft in a slow oven. Mash and serve in the 
shell or remove from the shell, mash, and season. 



Squash Souffle 

Ingredients : 

2 c. hot steamed squash i| c. milk.. 

i tbsp. brown sugar 2 eggs 

i tsp. salt I tsp. pepper 

Method: 

Wash squash, add remaining ingredients, eggs beaten separately, 
and whites folded in last. Place in pan of hot water and bake in 
moderate oven until firm. 



70 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Baked Summer Squash 

Ingredients : 

3 c. mashed, cooked squash i egg 

2^ c. bread crumbs i tsp. onion juice 

\ c. milk | tsp. pepper 

6 slices bacon i tsp. salt 

Method: 

Broil the bacon, and add 2 tbsp. of the fat to the squash. Com- 
bine ingredients and place in a buttered baking dish. Bake in a 
moderate oven until brown. Garnish with the bacon. 



Vegetables en Casserole I 

Ingredients : 

6 potatoes i c. rice 

i turnip i tsp. salt 

i c. peas | tsp. pepper 

i c. tomatoes f tsp. allspice 

i onion 4 c. brown stock 

Method: 

Prepare vegetables and wash rice. Put ingredients in layers in a 
casserole, add stock, cover and bake slowly 3 hours. 



Vegetables en Casserole II 

Ingredients : 

2 cooked turnips 2 tbsp. butter 

4 cooked carrots i tsp. salt 

4 c. cooked spinach i tsp. pepper 

Method: 

Line a buttered mold with strips of carrots and turnips. Fill with 
spinach seasoned with butter, salt, and pepper, set in a pan of hot 
water and bake 20 minutes. Remove from mold and surround with 
white sauce. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 71 

Eggplant en Casserole 

Ingredients : 

2 c. mashed, boiled eggplant i tsp. salt 

| c. stewed tomatoes f tsp. pepper 

3 tbsp. butter i tbsp. grated onion 
3 tbsp. chopped, cooked meat \ c. buttered crumbs 

Method: 

Combine vegetables, meat, and seasonings, place in a casserole 
and cover with crumbs. Brown in a hot oven. 

Boston Baked Beans 

Ingredients : 

i qt. pea beans i tbsp. salt 

i Ib. fat salt pork \ c. molasses, New Orleans 

i tsp. soda \ tbsp. mustard 

cayenne boiling water 

i small onion 
Method : 

Pick over and wash beans, cover with cold water and soak over- 
night. Drain, cover with fresh water and parboil, with soda. Drain 
again. Pour boiling water over pork, scrape rind and score. Cut 
off one thin slice and place with the onion in the bottom of the pot. 
Put beans in pot, then press pork in beans, leaving only the rind 
above. Mix the seasonings, molasses, and i c. boiling water and pour 
into the bean pot and bake in slow oven 8 to 10 hours. Add water as 
needed. Uncover bean pot during the last hour of baking to brown 
the rind. Serve with Boston Brown Bread. 



Dried Lima Beans 

Ingredients : 

i c. beans i tbsp. butter 

\ tsp. salt | tsp. white pepper 

Method: 

Wash the beans and soak overnight in plenty of cold water. Drain, 
boil in salted water 5 minutes. Add \ tsp. baking soda to each 



72 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

quart water. Put them into the fireless cooker for 4 hours or more. 
Drain, season with the butter, salt, and pepper, and reheat if necessary. 



Stewed Lentils 

Ingredients : 

i c. lentils | small onion 

Ib. bacon water 

J c. vinegar 
Method: 

Wash lentils and soak overnight. Drain, cover with fresh cold 
water and cook with bacon and onion several hours, until tender. 
Drain, reserving i c. liquid ; thicken this with 2 tbsp. browned flour 
mixed with 2 tbsp. cold water. Boil 5 minutes, add the vinegar, 
and reheat the lentils in this sauce. Season with pepper, and salt if 
necessary. 

White Sauce 



PROPORTIONS 


FLOUR 


BUTTER 


SALT 


MILK 


I. Thin cream soups .... 


i tbsp. 


i tbsp. 


itsp. 


I C. 


II. Medium creamed vegetables . 


2 tbsp. 


2 tbsp. 


Jtsp. 


I C. 


III. Thick creamed oysters . . . 


3 tbsp. 


3 tbsp. 


itsp. 


I C. 


IV. Very thick croquettes . . . 


4 tbsp. 


1-2 tbsp. 


itsp. 


I C. 



Method: 

French 

Melt butter, add flour. Add milk, stirring constantly to prevent 
lumping or burning. Cook until mixture has thoroughly boiled. 
Add salt and pepper. If made in quantities of more than 2 c., a 
double boiler should be used in order to prevent burning or scorching. 

Hygienic 

Make a paste of flour and milk. Cook in a double boiler for 30 
minutes. Just before serving add butter, salt, and pepper. " Hy- 
gienic " white sauce is supposed to be more easily digested than that 
made by the French method as the starch is more thoroughly cooked 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 73 

and butter not cooked. The French method is more commonly 
used, however. 

Uses of White Sauce 

Cream soups Custard for fillings and ice creams 

Creamed vegetables and oysters Gravies 

Croquettes Souffles 

Variations 
Addition of eggs, cheese, fruit juices. 

Creamed Vegetables 
2 c. vegetable i c. white sauce II 

Scalloped Vegetables 

2 c. vegetables i c. white sauce II 

i c. buttered crumbs 
(See rules for scalloped dishes below) 

NOTE : | c. grated cheese may be substituted for buttered crumbs. 

SCALLOPED DISHES 
General Rules 

1. The crumbs used for scalloped dishes are prepared from the 
inside of stale bread. Crumb the bread by grating, or by rubbing 
two pieces together. 

2. Place the food material in two layers, using one quarter the 
amount of crumbs on the bottom of the dish, one quarter in the middle, 
and the remaining half on the top of the dish. 

3. Butter the baking dishes and shells. 

4. A moderate oven is best used in the baking. 



Crumbs for Scalloped Dishes 

Ingredients : 

i c. crumbs white pepper or cayenne 

f tsp. salt i tbsp. butter 



74 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Melt the butter in a baking dish, remove from fire and stir in 
seasoned crumbs lightly, using a fork. 



Scalloped Tomatoes 

Ingredients : 

i can or i qt. tomatoes i tsp. salt 

3 c. crumbs \ tsp. pepper 

3 tbsp. butter 
Method: 

Prepare according to rule and bake one half hour covered; then 
uncover to brown crumbs. 



Scalloped Apples 

Ingredients : 

3 c. crumbs tsp. nutmeg 

3 tbsp. butter J tsp. cinnamon 

3 c. sliced apples \ lemon, juice and rind 
\ c. sugar \ c. water 

Method: 

Mix sugar and spice. Prepare according to the rule and bake one 
hour, covered ; then uncover to brown crumbs. The water must be 
added before the top layer of crumbs. If the apples are tart, the 
lemon juice may be omitted. More water may be needed if the apples 
are not juicy. 

CREAM SOUPS 

Cream of Asparagus Soup 

Ingredients : 

i bunqh asparagus cubed 4 tbsp. flour 

i qt. boiling water i| tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. butter pepper 

i pt. milk 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 75 

Cream of Celery Soup 
Ingredients : 

i c. celery cubed 4 tbsp. flour 

i pt. boiling water \ tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. butter i pt. milk 
pepper 

Cream of Chicken Soup 

Ingredients : 

i qt. chicken stock 4 tbsp. flour 

i pt. milk i tsp. celery salt 

4 tbsp. chicken fat salt and pepper 

Cream of String Bean Soup 

Ingredients : 

i can beans 4 tbsp. flour 

i pt. boiling water i| tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. butter pepper 

i pt. meat stock i pt. milk 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Ingredients : 

i qt. tomatoes \ c. flour 

\ tsp. soda 3 tsp. salt 

\ c. butter \ tsp. white pepper 

i qt. milk 

Method: 

Stew the tomatoes slowly 15 minutes. Strain and add soda while 
hot. Combine with white sauce. 

PUREES 

Corn Soup I 

Ingredients : 

i can corn 4 tbsp. butter 

i pt. water 4 tbsp. flour 

i qt. milk i| tsp. salt 

i slice onion pepper 



76 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Corn Soup II 

Ingredients : 

i can cornlet i tbsp. chopped onion 

i pt. water | c. flour 

i qt. milk 2 tsp. salt 

\ c. butter \ tsp. white pepper 

yolks 2 eggs 
Method: 

Cook the cornlet with the water 20 minutes. Cook the onion in the 
melted butter until brown, add flour, seasoning, and the milk gradually 
as for white sauce. Strain, add strained cornlet, combine mixtures, 
pour over the well-beaten yolks, and serve at once. 



Pea Soup 

Ingredients : 

i can peas ^ tsp. salt 

i qt. boiling water ^ tsp. sugar 

5 tbsp. butter pepper 

5 tbsp. flour i pt. milk 



Potato Soup 

Ingredients : 

3 potatoes i tbsp. flour 

i pt. milk or i tsp. salt 

1 pt. milk and water tsp. white pepper 

2 tsp. chopped onion celery salt 

i tbsp. butter 2 tsp. chopped parsley 

Method: 

Boil potatoes until soft, drain ; scald milk and onion in a double 
boiler. Beat potatoes with a wire potato masher, add hot liquid, 
strain, and return to the double boiler. Make a white sauce, using 
this as liquid. Cook 5 minutes, and add the chopped parsley just 
before serving. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 



77 



Black Bean Soup 

Ingredients : 

1 qt. black beans i piece celery root 
4 qts. cold water \ tsp. mustard 

2 tbsp. chopped onion 4 tbsp. butter 
2 tsp. salt 2 tbsp. flour 

I tsp. pepper i large lemon 

cayenne 2 hard-cooked eggs 

Method: 

Wash the beans and soak them overnight in 2 qts. of cold water, 
drain and rinse thoroughly ; brown the onion in 2 tbsp. of the butter, 
put in with the beans, add the celery root, and 2 qts. cold water. 
Cook slowly until beans are soft, adding more water as it boils away ; 
rub through a strainer; add the seasonings and heat. Heat the 
remaining butter in a saucepan, add the flour, then the hot soup 
gradually. Cut the lemon and eggs in thin slices and serve with the 
soup. 

FOOD VALUES 
Baked Beans 





M 








I 






o 


s? 




MATERIAL 


i 


5^ 


Hi 


Si 


gi 

w d 


1 


Ij 


lag 


f?3i 


1 




3 





1^ 


fe o 




^CJ 


CJ 






^o 












CJ 




$ 


5 


Scj 




Beans . . 


I C. 


188.5 


42.41 


3-40 


112. l6 


650 


.0415 


.409 


2. II 


.013 


Salt pork . 


lib. 


71-5 


1.34 


61.65 




560 


0347 


.001 


.028 


.0002 


Onion . . 


i slice 


17 


.02 


.003 


.15 


7 


.0018 


.008 


.016 


.0001 


Molasses . 


i tbsp. 


7.0 


17 




4.83 


20 


.0009 


.02 


.02 


.0014 


Total, 






















cooked 


3lc. 


856 


43-94 


6"5.05 


117.14 


1237 


.0789 


-438 


2.174 


.0147 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


I.e. 


69.16 


2.74 


5.26 


9.46 


100 


.006 


-035 


.173 


.0012 



78 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Creamed Potato 



MATERIAL 


MEASURE 


WEIGHT 
Grams 


la 

rt o 


fa o 


CARBOHYDRATE 
Grams 


TOTAL 
CALORIES 


9 

$ 


g 

^G 
%%% 

3-3 

CJ 


PHOSPHORUS 
(Calc. as P 2 Os) 
Grams 


11 

M O 


Potato . 
Butter . 
Flour . . 
Milk . . 
Salt . . 
Total, 
cooked 
loo-Calorie 
Portion 


2 C. 

2 tbsp. 
2 tbsp. 

I C. 


291.6 
36.2 
I4-I5 
245-9 


6.41 
.36 
1.58 
.8.11 


.29 

3-77 
.014 

9-83 


54.65 

10-59 
12.29 


242 
278 

50 
170 


.018 
.02 
.0015 
.0225 


.045 

.008 

.003 

4 


4 
.on 

.025 
51 


.003 

.OOO2 
.0005 


3*c. 
*c. 


575-3 
77.66 


16.47 

2.22 


40.7 
5-49 


77-53 
2.71 


740 

IOO 


.062 
.008 


.456 
.063 


.946 
.132 


.0037 
.0005 



Cream of Pea Soup 



Peas . . 


i can 


440 


15.84 


.88 


43.12 


242 


15 


.096 


.605 


.0036 


Milk . . 


2 C. 


462.4 


15.25 


18.49 


23.12 


319 


.045 


733 


.966 


.001 


Butter . 


2 tbsp. 


39 


39 


33-15 




300 


034 


.009 


.012 




Flour . . 


2 tbsp. 


14 


1-57 


.14 


10.48 


5o 


.0015 


0034 


.024 


.0019 


Water 


2 C. 




















Seasoning 






















Total, 






















cooked 


4C. 


1034 


3L05 


52.56 


71.82 


911 


.2307 


.8414 


1.607 


.0065 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


fc. 


113 


3.10 


5.25 


7.18 


IOO 


.023 


.0841 


.06 


.0006 



Cream of Tomato Soup 



Tomato . 


I C. 


240 


2.88 


.48 


9.6 


55 


025 


.048 


-138 


.0093 


Butter . 


i tbsp. 


15.5 


15 


I3-I7 




119 


.0123 


0035 


.0047 




Flour . . 


i tbsp. 


7.5 


79 


.07 


5-29 


25 


.0007 


.0017 


.0125 


.0001 


Milk . . 


I C. 


233.4 


7.14 


8.67 


11.83 


150 


.0225 


-358 


-454 


.0005 


Seasonings 






















Total, 






















cooked 


ifc. 


423.2 


10.96 


22.39 


26.72 


349 


.06 


.4112 


.6092 


.0099 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


ic. 


121.63 


3.13 


6.4 


7.64 


IOO 


.017 


.1176 


.1742 


.0028 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 
Cream of Potato Soup 



79 













w 






^~. 


'S 






W 


H 






< 


CO 




S en 


gQ M 




MATERIAL 


1 

a 


gl 

p 


11 


*J 


II 


IJ 


8 


|j! 


||3 


I| 












6 




$ 


u 


PnCJ 




Potatoes . 


3 


360 


7-9 


.36 


74.8 


300 


.012 


.057 


.498 


0045 


Butter . 


2 tbsp. 


26 


.26 


22.1 




2OO 


.02 


.006 


.008 




Flour . . 


2 tbsp. 


15 


1.58 


15 


II. 10 


50 


.OOI 


.0035 


.025 


.0002 


Milk . . 


lie. 


289 


9-5 


11.56 


14-45 


2OO 


.026 


.478 


.606 


.OOO6 


Water . 


Ic. 




















Total, 






















cooked 


tfc. 


690 


19.24 


34-17 


100.35 


750 


059 


5445 


I-I37 


0053 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


fc. 


89.7 


2-5 


4-44 


13.04 


IOO 


.007 


.0707 


.147 


.OOO6 



Cream of Lentil Soup 



Milk . . 


|c. 


162.34 


5-34 


6. 5 4 


8.10 


112 


.018 


.25 


-34 


.0003 


Butter- . 


3 tbsp. 


58 


-58 


49.71 




450 


.03 


.0135 


.018 




Lentils . 


2 tbsp. 


28.7 


7-37 


.29 


16.93 


IOO 


.005 


.03 


.18 


.OO24 


Cheese . 


i cu.in. 


22.8 


6.5 


8.17 


.004 


IOO 


.004 


.25 


329 




Water . 


I C. 


225 


















Seasonings 






















Total, 






















cooked 


2JC. 


534-35 


19.79 


19.71 


25.03 


762 


.057 


-5435 


.867 


.0027 


loo-Calorie 
















- 






Portion 


ic. 


70 


2-59 


2-59 


3-29 


IOO 


.0075 


.0706 


.112 


.0003 



Split Pea Soup 



Peas . . 


ic. 


56.2 


13-8 


.56 


34-8 


200 


.012 


.08 


.50 


.003 


Onion . 


| tbsp. 


6.5 


.10 


.OI9 


-64 


3 


.OOI 


.0036 


.0072 


.00003 


Butter . 


| tbsp. 


ii. 5 


.11 


9-77 




88 


.01 


.0026 


.0035 




Flour . . 


! tbsp. 


5-6 


.62 


.0564 


4.19 


20 


.OOI 


.0014 


.01 


.00008 


Milk . . 


Ic. 


112. 2 


3-7 


4.48 


5-6 


77 


.01 


.1771 


.233 


.00026 


Seasonings 






















Total, 






















cooked 


ilc. 


263.5 


18.33 


14.88 


45-23 


388 


.034 


.2647 


7537 


00337 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


Ic. 


67.71 


4.71 


3-82 


11.62 


IOO 


.0075 


.0661 


.1884 


.0008 



8o LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

REFERENCES 
Vegetables 

ABEL. Beans, Peas, and other Legumes as Food. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 121 (1900). 
BAILEY. Cyclopedia of Agriculture and Cyclopedia of Horticulture. 
BARROWS. Course in the Use and Preparation of Vegetable Foods. 

United States Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment 

Station, Bulletin 245 (1912). 
BEATTEE. Celery. United States Department of Agriculture, 

Farmers' Bulletin 282 (1917). 
BREAZEALE. Canning Vegetables in the Home. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 359 (1909). 
BUCHANAN. Household Bacteriology. 
CORBETT. A Successful Method of Marketing Vegetable Products. 

Yearbook of Department of Agriculture for 1912. 
CORBETT. Tomatoes. United States Department of Agriculture, 

Farmers' Bulletin 220. 

DE RIVAZ, EVELYN. Little French Dinners. 
GEORGE. Vegetarian Cookery. 
LANG WORTHY. Green Vegetables and Their Uses in the Diet. 

United States Department of Agriculture, Yearbook for 1911. 
LANGWORTHY. Potatoes and other Root Crops as Food. United 

States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 295 (1907). 
LEACH. Food Inspection and Analysis. 
PARLOA. Preparation of Vegetables for the Table. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 256 (1906). 
Iowa State College Agricultural Extension Department. Potatoes, 

Demonstration, Short Course Class Notes, Nos. 3 and 16. 
SHERMAN. Food Products. 
SHERMAN. Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. 
THOMPSON. Practical Dietetics. 
WILEY. Foods and their Adulterations. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 8 I 

Soups 

DELIEE. Franco-American Cooking Book. 

ELLWANGER. The Pleasures of the Table. An Account of Gastron- 
omy from Ancient Days to the Present Time. 

FARMER. The Boston Cooking School Cook Book. 

ROBBINS. Creamed Soups and Vegetables. Oregon Agricultural 
College, Extension Service, No. 135. 



CHAPTER VI 
MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 

MILK is probably the most important article of diet used to- 
day, because of the large place it fills not only in the diet of 
children and invalids but also in the economic and hygienic 
nutrition of healthy adults. 

In qualitative composition milk is an aqueous solution of 
milk sugar, mineral matter, and albumin with fat globules held 
in suspension and casein together with mineral matter in a state 
of semi-solution. Other facts regarding the constituents of 
milk will be developed in the course of the experimental work 
included in this chapter. 

The quantities of the chief constituents average approxi- 
mately as follows : water, 87 per cent ; milk sugar, 5 per cent ; 
fat, 4 per cent ; proteins, 3.3 per cent ; ash, 0.7 per cent. Mar- 
ket milk may of course be somewhat less rich in one or more of 
the foodstuffs than this average, but nearly every state now has 
legal requirements governing the milk industry and setting at 
least a minimum standard for the product. In buying milk 
the sanitary quality should be carefully considered as well as 
the food value. See Leach's Food Inspection and Analysis, 
Chapter VII, Rosenau's The Milk Question, and Sherman's 
Food Products, Chapter III. 

Milk is the most important of all foods as a source of body- 
building material for growing children. While the great eco- 
nomic growth of the milk industry, the progress in the chemical 
and bacteriological study of milk, and the care given to the 
legal and sanitary control of the production and handling of 

82 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 83 

milk are all indications of a growing realization of the impor- 
tance of milk as a food, yet it is of interest to find that the great 
quantity of milk used as such in this country amounts on calcu- 
lation to only a little over a half a pint per day for every man, 
woman, and child, whereas the study of dietetics teaches us that 
adults should have at least as much milk as this and children 
a good deal more "a quart of milk a day for every child " 
if possible. The study of milk cookery should therefore have 
as one of its main objects the development of a higher appre- 
ciation of milk as a food and the encouragement of its more 
liberal use in the diet, both as a beverage and in the greatest 
variety of cooked foods. 

EXPERIMENTS ON MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 1 

Cream 

83. Examine a bottle of milk obtained from a reliable dealer. 

a. Read the statements on the cap. 

b. Of what significance are they ? 

c. What are the two layers in the bottle ? 

d. Why is the yellow layer at the top ? 

84. a. Examine with the microscope a tiny drop of cream. 

b. Make a drawing of the fat droplets. 

86. a. Divide a quart of cream into four cups: A, B, C, D. 

b. Heat A in a double boiler until a thick scum appears. 
Allow the cream to cool and then beat it with a Dover egg beater. 
(Keep B, C, and D for subsequent experiments.) 

c. Can this cream be beaten stiff ? 

d. What was the scum which appeared when the cream was 
heated? 

86. a. Whip B with a wire whisk until stiff. 

b. Beat c with a Dover egg beater until stiff. 

1 A division in the recipes for milk and cheese has been made, but the experiments 
for milk and milk products have been considered together for purposes of compari- 
son and summary. 



84 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

c. Compare A, B, and C as to flavor, consistency, and 
volume. 

d. How do you explain differences noted? 

87. Beat D with a Dover egg beater until fat globules form 
masses and butter results. Drain off buttermilk and save for further 
experiments. 

Compute the per cent of butter obtained from a unit of cream. 

88. Wash the butter in cold water until no more buttermilk 
appears. " Pat " out the water. 

a. Weigh the washed butter and divide it into two parts of 
equal weight. 

b. Add sufficient salt to one part to give it the usual salty 
flavor. 

c. Put both parts in the refrigerator for a few hours to ripen. 

d. Compare as to weight, flavor, and texture. 

Butter 

89. Heat a teaspoon each of pure butter, renovated butter, and 
oleomargarine in separate tablespoons over a bunsen burner. 

Note the manner in which each melts and the appearance after 
melting. 

This is called the foam test for butter. Why should the butter 
boil quietly while the renovated butter and the oleomargarine sputter 
and crackle? 

90. Place a tablespoon of each of the three samples used in 
Expt. 89 in each of three small beakers containing four tablespoons 
of sweet milk. Heat the beakers until the fats are melted, then 
place them in cold water and while the fat is still melted stir each 
vigorously with a splint of wood. Note the form the pure and 
renovated butters take and contrast with the condition of the oleo- 
margarine. 

Buttermilk 

91. Prepare butter from sweet cream. Prepare butter from an 
equal volume of sour cream. Compare resulting butter as to flavor, 
texture, and quantity. (Keep the buttermilk for Expts. 92 and 93.) 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 85 

92. a. Compare each buttermilk as to flavor and color. 

b. Use each in gingerbread. Is any perceptible difference 
noticed ? 

93. a. Reaction of milk. Test fresh milk with delicate litmus 
paper and record results for comparison with tests to be made later. 
b. Compare the behavior of the two buttermilks from Expt. 91 
toward litmus paper with that just observed in the case of sweet 
milk and with each other. Is there any relation between the differ- 
ence here seen and that observed in making gingerbread (Expt. 92) ? 

Constituents of Milk 

94. a. The presence of water and fat in milk has been suffi- 
ciently demonstrated in the above experiments. 

b. If a platinum or quartz dish is available, a little of the 
milk may be dried and burned to determine whether it yields ash. 

96. a. Test milk for protein by means of the biuret l and xantho- 
proteic 2 reactions. 

b. Try heating some of the fresh milk to boiling. Does it 
contain a protein coagulable by heat like that of egg-white (page 109) ? 

96. Acidulate another portion of the milk with acetic acid or 
vinegar, warm gently, and compare with the preceding test. Filter 
through wet filter paper and save the filtrate. Apply the xantho- 
proteic reaction 2 to the solid which remains on the filter paper. 

97. Test a portion of the filtrate from Expt. 96 for the presence 
of sugar by means of the Fehling-Benedict test (page 13). 

What conclusion can be drawn from the result ? 
Do all sugars respond to this test ? 

98. Apply the iodine test (page 13) both to a portion of the 
filtrate from Expt. 96 and to a separate portion of the whole milk. 

1 Biuret Reaction. If a few drops of copper sulphate solution are added to pro- 
tein, in solution, and then an excess of caustic potash added, a red to violet colora- 
tion is produced. 

2 Xanthoproteic Reaction. When nitric acid is added to protein (either in solu- 
tion or in solid form) a yellow color is produced which, on the addition of ammonia, 
becomes bright orange. 



86 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

What conclusions are justified as to the nature of the carbohydrate 
portion of milk? 

99. Heat milk in double boiler. 

Strain the heated milk through a damp cheesecloth and test again 
for the xanthoproteic reaction. 

100. Prepare 4 junket custards, using i c. sweet milk and 
junket tablet dissolved in f tsp. cold water in each instance. Pro- 
ceed as follows : 

a. Add dissolved junket to cold milk. 

b. Add dissolved junket to warm milk. 

c. Add dissolved junket to milk and boil i minute. 

d. Add dissolved junket to cold milk. Allow a, b, and c 
to stand in room at room temperature. Put d in refrigerator. 

e. Compare results at end of 10 minutes. 

/. Which method has proven most satisfactory ? 

g. Why? 

h. What is junket? 

101. Prepare i qt. of junket according to the most successful 
method. After the mixture has stood for i hour, cut with a knife into 
small pieces. Note results. What is the yellowish liquid that appears ? 

102. a. Strain mass prepared in Expt. 101 through wet cheese- 
cloth. 

b. Apply the following tests to residue and filtrate re- 
spectively : 

Biuret, page 85 
Coagulation on heating 
Xanthoproteic, page 85 
Fehling-Benedict solution, page 13 

c. What are your conclusions ? 

Milk (Sour) 

103. Have ready milk which has been sour i day, 2 days, 3 days. 

a. Test equal volumes of each with litmus paper. 

b. Neutralize each with a solution of baking soda, testing 
with litmus paper. 

c. Note the amount of soda required in each instance. 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 87 

104. a. Heat equal portions of each specimen of sour milk in a 
double boiler. 

b. Note the clotting which appears. 

c. Which clots quickest and in largest quantity? 

d. To what is this due ? 

105. a. Add salt to each portion in double boiler in the propor- 
tion of | tsp. to i c. of sour milk. 

b. Note the effect. 

c. How do you explain the result ? 

106. Strain the clotted masses from Expt. 105 through wet cheese- 
cloth and allow to hang undisturbed until filtrate no longer drips. 
Test as usual with : 

Biuret, page 85 
Xanthoproteic, page 85 
Coagulation on heating 
Fehling-Benedict solution, page 13 

107. a. Compare the cheese obtained in Expt. 106 with that 
made from sweet milk. 

b. Note the difference in consistency, texture, and flavor. 

c. To what is this due ? 

108. Test each specimen of sour milk with litmus paper. 

a. Which turns the paper quickest ? 

b. What acid is present in sour milk ? 

c. How does it originate ? 

(Leach, Food Inspection and Analysis?) 

d. With the litmus paper still in the milk, add sufficient 
baking soda to neutralize the acid. Is a physical or chemical change 
produced ? 

e. What is the gas given off after the soda is added ? 
/. In what food products is this principle applied? 

g. Test i c. of sour milk with litmus paper and determine 
how much soda it is necessary to add to neutralize the acid. 

h. Take an average of the results of the class and com- 
pare with the amount usually given in cook books. How does it 
compare ? 



88 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

109. a. Test i c. of sweet milk with litmus and add sufficient 
vinegar to produce the same intensity of color as in 108, g. 

b. Neutralize a part of this milk with soda. 

c. Compare the amount of soda needed with 108, g. 

d. Prepare gingerbread, using the milk in 108, g in one in- 
stance and that in 109, a in the second instance. 

e. Compare the two products. Is one preferable to the 
other? 

/. Repeat g and heat the milk until the curd separates 
out. Compare this curd with that of normally sour milk and also 
with the curd made with junket and sweet milk. 

g. What are the noticeable differences and to what are 
they due ? 

h. What sources of sour milk and curd have we? 

Cheese 

Cheese has already been prepared with sweet and sour milk. 
Test now commercial cheese. 

110. Prepare three equal weights of American cheese, A, B, C. 
Heat A in a saucepan, B in a double boiler, and C in hot milk. Com- 
pare results. 

111. Prepare two equal weights of American cheese, A, B. 
Cut into small pieces and put into equal volumes of warm milk. 

a. Continue heating A in a double boiler until cheese is 
melted. Examine consistency of mixture. 

b. Continue heating B in saucepan and allow milk to boil. 
Compare result with that in a. How do you account for the differ- 
ence in appearance, consistency, and difficulty in mastication ? 

Absorption of Odors 

112. Allow samples of butter, cream, sweet milk, and sour milk 
to stand in a compartment by themselves in the refrigerator. Arrange 
corresponding samples in a compartment already containing cooked 
onions or cooked cauliflower. 

Allow each to stand i day. Note taste and odor of each. 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 



89 



113. Put \ tsp. of kerosene into a pitcher. Allow to stand i 
hour. Wash the pitcher thoroughly. Turn in i c. sweet milk. 
Allow this to stand i hour. Note taste and odor. 

MILK DESSERTS 
Junkets 



INGREDIENTS 


PLAIN 


COFFEE 


CHOCOLATE 


Milk 


i at 


i qt and i c 


i qt (i oz chocolate 


Sugar 


3 tbsp. 


boiled coffee 

ic. 


or 2 tbsp. cocoa 
boil 5 min. with \ c. 
of the qt.) 
i c. 


Vanilla 


I tSD 




I tSD 


Tablet 


I 


i 


I 


Cold water 


i tbsp. 


i tbsp. 


i tbsp. 



General Method: 

Dissolve tablet in cold water. 

Heat milk to lukewarm temperature in a double boiler. 

Add sugar and stir until dissolved. 

Add dissolved tablet and pour into serving glasses. 

Let stand at room temperature until firm. 

Place in refrigerator until ready to serve. 

Garnish with whipped cream or fruit. 

MILK AND EGG DESSERTS 

Custards 

General Rules: 

Scald the milk in a double boiler. Beat eggs slightly, add sugar 
and salt and the scalded milk gradually. A moderate temperature 
is necessary in cooking custards to prevent curdling. Cool cup cus- 
tards before turning out. 

Soft Custards 

Cook custard in double boiler, stirring constantly until mixture 
coats the spoon. Strain. Cool and flavor. 



90 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Baked Custards 

Strain uncooked custard into cups previously wet with cold water. 
Place in pan of hot water in moderate oven until firm. 

TEST : A silver knife inserted in custard will come out clean when custard 
is firm enough. 

Steamed Custards 

Place cups in a steamer or in pan of boiling water. Place towel 
under cover to absorb moisture. 

Caramel 

Ingredients: 

i c. sugar ^ c. boiling water 

Method: 

Melt sugar in iron pan over a low flame. Move gently with a knife 
and occasionally change position of pan to prevent burning the 
sugar. When the sugar has melted to a brown sirup, add the boiling 
water and simmer a little longer. Strain. 

Caramel Custard I 

Prepare caramel and add it to the scalded milk. 
NOTE : The caramel is in the custard. 

Caramel Custard II 

Prepare caramel and divide it equally among the custard cups. 
Place a spoon in the cup and pour the custard slowly down it. This 
keeps the two from mixing. 
NOTE : The caramel is a sauce for the custard, when turned out. 



Custard 

Ingredients : 

1 pt. milk 4 tbsp. sugar 

2 eggs or 4 yolks I tsp. salt 

\ tsp. vanilla 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 91 

Chocolate Custard 
\ oz. chocolate to i pt. milk 

Melt chocolate in a double boiler and add the scalded milk to it a 
teaspoonful at a time until smooth. The remainder may be added 
rapidly. 
NOTE : Follow directions carefully so the chocolate will not separate. 

VARIATIONS 
Floating Island 

Soft custard served in glasses with meringue on top. Garnish 
with jellies or cherries. 

Tapioca or Rice Custard ' 

Ingredients : 

\ c. rice or pearl tapioca f c. sugar 

2 c. milk \ tsp. salt 

2 eggs i tsp. vanilla 
Method: 

Cook soaked tapioca or rice in the scalded milk. Proceed as for 
plain custard. 

a. Cook in double boiler as a soft custard. 

b. Bake in buttered pudding dish as a baked custard. 

Bread Puddings 

Soak stale bread crumbs from inside of loaf in scalded milk 30 min- 
utes. Prepare custard with other ingredients. Bake in buttered 
pudding dish as a baked custard. 

Save whites of eggs for a meringue. 

Bread Pudding 

Ingredients : 

2 c. crumbs I tsp. salt 

i qt. milk* 2 eggs 

i c. sugar grated nutmeg 

i c. raisins or currants 



92 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Queen of Puddings 

Spread a baked bread pudding with jam or jelly before placing 
meringue on top. 



Ingredients : 



Chocolate Bread Pudding 



2 oz. chocolate i tsp. vanilla 

and ingredients for plain Bread Pudding 

FOOD VALUES 
Baked Custard 













8 









w je 




MATERIAL 


MEASURE 


|o 


PROTEIN 
Grams 


"1 


RBOHYDRA 

Grams 


TOTAL 
CALORIES 


1 


CALCIUM 
lie. as Ca< 
Grams 


HOSPHORU 

ale. as P 2 C 
Grams 


13 












pa 






$ 


CJ 


&,U 




Milk . . . 


2 C. 


443-2 


14.62 


17.7 


22.l6 


306 


045 


.70 


.92 


.001 


Eggs . . . 


2 


98.1 


I3.I4 


10.3 




145 


.06 


.087 


.348 


.0027 


Sugar . . . 


4 tbsp. 


51.2 






51.2 


20 


.007 








Salt . . . 


it tsp. 




















Nutmeg . . 


itsp. 




















Total, cooked 


4*c. 


574-3 


27.76 


28.02 


73.36 


471 


.112 


.787 


1.268 


.0037 


zoo-Calorie 






















Portion 


I C. 


I2O.6 


5.82 


5-8 


15-4 


100 


.023 


.165 


.266 


.0007 



Rice Pudding with Eggs 



Cooked rice . 


ic. 


96.8 


2.71 


.10 


23.62 


1 06 


.0048 


.003 


.06 


.0003 


Milk . . . 


ic. 


in. 7 


3.67 


4.46 


5.58 


77 


.on 


.177 


.234 


.0002 


Egg . 


\ 


28.5 


3-82 


2.99 




42 


.016 


.025 


.1 


.0008 


Sugar . 


i tbsp. 


13-8 






13-8 


55 


.002 








Vanilla . . 


Itsp. 


13- 










.0022 








Total, cooked 


I C. 


214.9 


IO.2 


7-55 


43 


280 


.036 


.205 


394 


.0013 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


ic. 


76.49 


3-06 


2.26 


12.9 


IOO 


.01 


.006 


.on 


.0003 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 93 

REFERENCES 
Milk 

ATWATER. Milk as Food. United States Department of Agricul- 
ture, Farmers' Bulletin 74 (1904). 

BUCHANAN. Household Bacteriology. 

CONN. Bacteria in Milk and its Products. 

CUNNINGHAM. The Production of Clean Milk. Ohio State Univer- 
sity, Agricultural College, Farmers' Reading Course (1913). 

ECKLES. Dairy Cattle and Milk Production. 

FARRINGTON and WOLL. Testing Milk and its Products. 

GUTHRIE. Cream Separation. Cornell Reading Courses. Dairy- 
ing Series No. 5 (1915). 

HARCOURT. Food Value of Milk and its Products. Ontario Agri- 
cultural College. Toronto (1914). 

KELLY. Medical Milk Commissions and Certified Milk. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, 
No. i (1913). 

LAWSON. Inexpensive Aids in Producing Sanitary Milk. The Mary- 
land Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 181 (1914). 

LEACH. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

MILNER. The Use of Milk as Food. United States Department of 
Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 363 (1911). 

PEARSON. Facts about Milk. United States Agricultural Depart- 
ment, Farmers' Bulletin 42 (1906). 

ROGERS. Bacteria in Milk. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Farmers' Bulletin 490 (1912). 

ROGERS. Direction for the Home Pasteurization of Milk. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, 
Circular 197 (1912). 

ROSENAU. Milk in its Relation to the Public Health. United States 
Public Health Service, Hygienic Laboratory, Bulletin 56. 

ROSENAU. The Milk Question. 

SAVAGE. Milk and the Public Health. 

SHERMAN. Food Products. 

SHERMAN. Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. 



94 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

SHERMAN. Methods of Organic Analysis. 

SWITHINBANK and NEUMANN. Bacteriology of Milk. 

VAN SLYKE. Modern Methods of Testing Milk and Milk Products. 

WING. Milk and its Products. 

WHITAKER, ROGERS, and HUNT. The Care of Milk and its Use in 

the Home. United States Department of Agriculture; Farmers' 

Bulletin 413 (1913). 

Butter 

CLEVENGER. Buttermaking. Ohio State University, Agricultural 

College, Farmers' Reading Course. 
FARRINGTON and MEYERS. A Comparison of Aniline and Anatto 

Butter Colors in Buttermaking. University of Wisconsin, 

Agricultural Experiment Station. 
GUTHRIE. Farm Butter Making. Cornell Reading Courses, vol. 3, 

No. 60, Dairying Series No. 4. 
HASTINGS. The Propagation of Pure Starters for Butter and Cheese 

Making. The University of Wisconsin, Agricultural Experi- 
mental Station. 
PATRICK. Household Tests for the Detection of Oleomargarine and 

Renovated Butter. United States Department of Agriculture, 

Farmers' Bulletin 131. 
RASMUSSEN. A Study of Farm Buttermaking in New Hampshire. 

New Hampshire Agricultural Experiment Station, Durham, 

New Hampshire. 



CHAPTER VII 
CHEESE 

CHEESE is made from milk or cream by coagulating the casein 
with rennet or lactic acid. Ripening ferments, seasonings, and 
coloring matter may be added. Cheese is divided into two 
main types: the hard cheeses such as Cheddar, Edam, Swiss, 
Parmesan, and Roquefort ; and the soft cheeses such as Brie, 
Camembert, Limburg, Neufchatel, Gorgonzola, and Stilton. 
Much of the larger part of the cheese made in this country is of 
the type of the Cheddar cheese and is known as American 
Cheddar cheese. The process of making Cheddar cheese is 
divided into several distinct steps as follows : (i) inspection of 
milk, (2) ripening of milk, (3) addition of color, (4) coagulating 
the milk, (5) cutting the curd, (6) stirring and heating the curd, 
(7) removing whey, (8) cheddaring the curd, (9) milling the 
curd, (10) salting and pressing, (i i) ripening or curing the cheese. 
For full description of these steps see Sherman's Food Products, 
pages 89-94. 

The different varieties of whole milk cheese do not differ 
greatly from an average composition of about one third water, 
one third fat, and one fourth protein (the small remainder being 
mainly salt). The fat is in a finely divided state and is chem- 
ically the same as butter fat. The protein is more or less 
digested casein (some albumin). The ripening process changes 
the proteins not only to soluble proteins, but to proteoses, 
peptones, amino acids, and ammonia. The ash is high in cal- 
cium, phosphorus, sulphur, and iron and sodium and chlorine 
from the salting. Cheese is a very concentrated food, so should 

95 



96 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

be eaten in small quantities to avoid danger of irritation of the 
stomach. Cheese may be used interchangeably with meats 
and fish, and the time is coming when it will occupy a more 
prominent place in the dietary than it does at present. For- 
eign cheeses are expensive, but American cheese may be classed 
among the most economical of the high protein foods. 



Eggs with Cheese I 

Ingredients : 

3 hard-cooked eggs few grains cayenne 

i tbsp. flour | c. grated cheese 

i c. milk 4 slices toast 

tsp. salt 
Method: 

Make a thin white sauce with the flour and milk and seasonings. 
Add the cheese and stir until melted. Chop the whites and add them 
to the sauce. Pour the sauce over the toast, force the yolks through 
a potato ricer or strainer, sprinkle over the toast. 

Eggs with Cheese II 

Ingredients : 

4 eggs | tsp. salt 

i c. or 4 oz. grated cheese few grains cayenne 

i c. stale bread crumbs 
Method: 

Break the eggs into a buttered baking dish or into ramekins and 
cook them in a hot oven until they begin to turn white around the 
edge. Cover with the mixture of crumbs, cheese, and seasonings. 
Brown in-a very hot oven. 



Eggs with Cheese III 

Ingredients : 

| Ib. cheese grated or i tbsp. chopped parsley 

cut into small pieces few grains nutmeg 

8 eggs | tsp. salt 



CHEESE 97 

Method: 

Beat the eggs slightly, mix them with the other ingredients, cook 
over a very slow fire, stirring constantly, so that the cheese may be 
melted by the time the eggs are cooked. 

Cheese Fondue I 

Ingredients : 

i c. soft bread crumbs 4 eggs 

if c. grated cheese i c. hot water 

\ tsp. salt 
Method: 

Mix the water, bread crumbs, salt, and cheese; add the yolks 
thoroughly beaten ; into this mixture cut and fold the whites of eggs 
beaten until stiff. Pour the mixture into a buttered baking dish 
and bake 30 minutes in a moderate oven. Serve at once. 

Cheese Fondue II 

Ingredients : 

*L\ c. hot milk i tbsp. butter 

1 1 c. stale bread crumbs 4 eggs 

\\ c. grated cheese \ tsp. salt 
Method: 

Heat the milk in a double boiler, add the crumbs and allow the 
mixture to stand 15 minutes in hot water. Beat the yolks of eggs 
and mix thoroughly with the milk and crumbs. Add the butter, 
cheese, and salt. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites, pour into a but- 
tered baking dish and bake 30 minutes in a moderate oven. Serve 
at once. 

Cheese Fondue III 

Ingredients : 

\\ c. bread crumbs i egg 

\\ c. warm milk 2 tbsp. butter 

i^ c. cheese 8 crackers (warmed) 

seasoning 
Method: 

Allow the bread to soak in the warm milk 10 minutes. Add the 
butter and cheese to this mixture and when the cheese is melted, add 



98 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

the eggs slightly beaten. Add the seasoning and allow the whole 
mixture to cook in a double boiler until thick. Serve at once on 
warmed crackers. 

Cheese Omelet I 

Cheese may be made into omelets in several ways. An omelet may 
be served with thin cheese sauce made in the following proportions : 

1 1 tbsp. flour 
| c. grated cheese 
i c. milk 

This sauce may also be added to omelets in which boiled rice, minced 
meat, or some other nutritious material has been included. 



Cheese Omelet II 
Grated cheese may be sprinkled over an omelet before it is served. 

Cheese Omelet III 

Ingredients : 

yolks of 2 eggs salt and pepper 

2 tbsp. hot water whites of 4 eggs 

i c. grated cheese i tbsp. butter 
Method: 

Beat the yolks until lemon-colored and add the hot water and the 
seasoning. Beat the whites until they are stiff, and add the cheese. 
Cut and fold the two mixtures together. Proceed as for Foamy 
Omelet. 

Welsh Rarebit I 

Ingredients : 

\ Ib. cheese, grated cayenne 

\ c. cream or milk i egg 

\ tsp. mustard 2 tsp. butter 

\ tsp. salt dry toast 

Method: 

Put the cheese and milk or cream into a double boiler. Mix the 
mustard, salt, and cayenne. Add the egg and beat well. When the 



CHEESE 99 

cheese is melted, stir in the mixture of dry ingredients and egg, then 
the butter, and cook until it thickens. Stir constantly. Pour it 
over hot toast. 

Welsh Rarebit II 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. butter f tsp. mustard 

1 Ib. soft milk cheese, cut few grains cayenne 
in small pieces i c. milk 

| tsp. salt 2 eggs 

Method: 

Put butter in chafing dish and when melted add the cheese and 
seasonings ; as cheese melts, add milk gradually, stirring constantly ; 
then eggs beaten slightly. When eggs are cooked and mixture has 
thickened, serve on crackers or bread toasted on one side, rarebit 
being poured over untoasted side. A rarebit should be smooth and 
of creamy consistency, never stringy. 

Red Bunny 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. butter f c. milk 

2 tbsp. flour f c. stewed and 

| tsp.' soda strained tomatoes 

2 eggs i Ib. cheese 

seasonings 
Method: 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and milk. When 
thoroughly cooked add the cheese cut in fine pieces, the eggs slightly 
beaten, and the seasonings. Let this mixture cook until the cheese 
is melted and the eggs cooked. Have ready toasted whole wheat or 
graham bread and when ready to serve add the soda to the hot tomato, 
stir this into the cheese mixture and serve at once. 

Cheese Cakes 

Ingredients : 

i qt. milk few grains nutmeg 

1 junket tablet 3 tbsp. butter 

2 tbsp. sugar 2 tbsp. currants or 
yolks of 2 eggs small raisins 



100 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Warm the milk and add the dissolved junket tablet. Let the 
milk stand until the curd forms, then break up the curd and strain 
off the whey. Add the other ingredients to the curd; line patty 
tins with pastry, fill them with the mixture, and bake. 

Cheese Souffle with Pastry 

Ingredients: 

2 eggs | c. Swiss cheese cut 
f c. thin cream in small pieces 
salt, cayenne, and i c. grated cheese 

nutmeg 
Method: 

Add the eggs to the cream and beat slightly, then add the cheese 
and seasoning. Bake 15 minutes in a hot oven, in patty tins lined 
with puff paste. 

Cheese Custard 

Ingredients : 

i c. grated cheese yolks of 2 eggs 

\ c. cream or rich milk salt and paprika 

Method: 

Mix the cream and the cheese and heat until the cheese is melted. 
Remove from the fire and add the yolks of the eggs and seasonings. 
Bake in buttered ramekins. Serve with jelly or preserves. 

Scalloped Apples with Cheese 
Substitute riced cream cheese for butter in Scalloped Apples. 

Milk and Cheese Soup 

Ingredients : 

3 c. milk i c. grated cheese 
1 1 tbsp. flour salt and paprika 

Thicken the milk with the flour, cooking thoroughly. When ready 
to serve, add the cheese and the seasoning. 



CHEESE ^-.r;^' IO * 

Vegetable and Cheese Soup 

Ingredients : 

2 c. stock 2 tbsp. butter 

2 tbsp. finely chopped carrots 2 tbsp. flour 

i tbsp. chopped onion i^ tsp. salt 

i blade of mace i c. scalded milk 

i c. grated cheese 
Method: 

Cook the vegetables a short time in one half of the butter, add the 
stock and the mace, boiling 15 to 20 minutes. Strain and add the 
milk. Thicken with flour cooked in the remaining butter. Just 
before serving, add the cheese and cook until it is melted. 

Cheese Loaf 

A cheese loaf is a mixture of grated cheese, bread crumbs, and 
chopped legumes or nuts. Vegetable stock is added to make of the 
right consistency to shape into a loaf. Bake in a moderate oven, 
basting frequently with butter and water. Spinach, lettuce, or beet 
tops may be substituted for legumes. 

Bean Loaf 

Ingredients : 

1 Ib. cooked beans bread crumbs < 
^ Ib. English dairy cheese salt and pepper 

Method (as above). 

Lima Bean Loaf 

Ingredients : 

2 c. cooked lima beans bread crumbs 
\ Ib. cream cheese . 3 pimentoes 

Method (as above). 

Nut Loaf 

Ingredients : 

i c. grated cheese i tbsp. butter 

i c. chopped English walnuts juice of lemon 

i c. bread crumbs salt and pepper 

2 tbsp. chopped onion 
Method (as above). 



102 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Spinach Loaf 

Ingredients : 

2 qts. spinach (cooked) salt 

i c. grated cheese bread crumbs 

i tbsp. butter 
Method (as above). 

Cheese with Tomato and Corn 

Ingredients : 

i tbsp. butter 2 c. grated cheese 

f c. corn i pimento 

| c. tomato puree 2 egg yolks 

i tsp. salt | tsp. paprika 

Method : 

Heat the puree in a double boiler, add the butter, corn, salt, pa- 
prika, and pimento. When the mixture is hot, add the grated cheese; 
and when the cheese is nearly melted, add the egg yolks slightly beaten. 
Allow the total mixture to cook until thick. Serve on toasted bread. 

Italian Rice 

Ingredients : 

1 c. rice i tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. butter ^ c. grated cheese 

2 c. tomatoes 4 tbsp. chopped green pepper 

Method: 

Wash rice and cook in boiling water until soft. Melt butter in 
saucepan, add green pepper and sauter 5 minutes ; add cooked rice, 
tomatoes, and salt. Let cook until tomatoes are soft. Add grated 
cheese and continue cooking until cheese is melted. Serve at once. 

Turkish Pilaf 

Ingredients: 

\ c. rice i tbsp. butter 

2 c. boiling water salt 

i c. tomatoes pepper 



CHEESE 103 

Method: 

Wash rice and brown in the butter. Add water and steam until 
water is absorbed. Add the tomatoes and cook until rice is soft. 
Season. A little grated cheese may be added. 

Cheese Balls 

Ingredients : 

i c. grated cheese cayenne 

i tbsp. flour whites 3 eggs 

| tsp. salt cracker dust 

Method: 
Mix cheese with flour and seasonings. Beat whites of eggs until 

stiff and add to the first mixture. Shape in small balls, roll in cracker 

dust, fry in deep fat, and drain on brown paper. Serve with salad 

course. 

Cheese Straws I 

Ingredients : 

i c. grated cheese \ tsp. salt 

i c. fresh bread crumbs | tsp. pepper 

f c. flour cayenne 

i tbsp. butter i tbsp. milk 

Method: 

Cream the butter, add flour, crumbs, grated cheese, and seasonings ; 

mix thoroughly ; add milk. Roll ^ inch thick, cut \ inch wide and 

6 inches long. Bake until brown in a moderate oven. Serve with 

salad course. 

Cheese Straws II 

Roll out plain or puff paste until one fourth of an inch thick. 
Spread one half of it with grated cheese. Fold over the other half 
and roll out again. Repeat the process three or four times. Cut 
into strips and bake. Serve with soup or salad course. 

Cheese Gingerbread I 

Ingredients : 

v c. molasses 2 c. flour 

4 oz. cheese 2 tsp. ginger 

i tsp. soda ^ tsp. salt 
c. water 



104 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Heat the molasses and the cheese in a double boiler until the cheese 
is melted. Add the soda and stir vigorously. Mix and sift dry 
ingredients and add them to the molasses and cheese alternately with 
the water. Bake 15 minutes in small buttered tins. 



Cheese Gingerbread II 

Ingredients : 

\ c. molasses i tsp. soda 

| c. sugar 2 tsp. ginger 

4 oz. cheese \ tsp. salt 

2 c. flour f c. water 

Method, : 

Rub the cheese and the sugar together. Add the molasses. Mix 
and sift the dry ingredients and add them to the cheese mixture alter- 
nately with the water. 



FOOD VALUES 
Macaroni and Cheese 





M 








B 


M 




O 


gg 




MATERIAL 




2 


E g 


ii 


ii 

gg 


it 


1 

A 


|i 


isi 


ii 




i 


|o 





o 





H u 


\0 


^3 


S"c3 


M 












9 
O 




$ 


g 


Q 




Macaroni . 


fc. 


42 


5-55 


.37 


29.12 


150 


.0127 


.OI2 


.144 


.0006 


Cheese . . 


ic. 


24 


6.5 


8.6 


.07 


IOO 


.0125 


25 


-329 


.0003 


Milk . . . 


fc. 


150 


4.7 


6 


7-5 


IOO 


015 


.239 


303 


.0003 


Butter . . 


2 tbsp. 


39 


39 


23-15 




300 


.002 


.009 


.012 




Flour . . . 


2 tbsp. 


16.8 


1.58 


.16 


12.58 


50 


.0015 


.004 


.025 


.0002 


Bread crumbs 


fc. 


22 


i. 80 


.26 


11-59 


50 


.003 


.005 


.037 


.OOO2 


Total, cooked 


2C. 


323 


20.58 


38.57 


60.86 


750 


.0477 


.519 


.850 


.0016 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion l . 


ic. 


71.99 


2-73 


5.12 


8.09 


IOO 


.0063 


.069 


113 


.0002 



1 Also called Standard Portion (S. P.). 



CHEESE 
Rice with Cheese and Tomatoes 



105 













| 






o 


6 




MATERIAL 


1 


ni 


i! 


p 


Ip 


g| 


i 


hi 


lal 


IP 




jj 







r 'o 


o 

$ 


H u 




u 


c^c5 

B rt 


M 

















$ 









Raw rice . 


i c . 


100 


7.9 


.29 


78.6 


350 


.0218 


.01 


.19 


.001 


Tomatoes 


I C. 


230 


2.77 


.46 


9.24 


50 


.0231 


.043 


.125 


.0008 


Butter . . 


i tbsp. 


14 


.14 


11.9 




1 08 


.0109 


.003 


.OO4 




Cheese . . 


20Z. 


56.7 


16.3 


22.3 




250 


0310 


.623 


.82 


.0007 


Salt . . . 


i tsp. 




















Total 


2^C. 


524.1 


27.11 


34.95 


87.84 


758 


.0868 


.679 


LI39 


.0025 


zoo-Calorie 






















Portion 1 . 


ic. 


68.1 


3.58 


4-53 


H.59 


TOO 


.0112 


.089 


15 


.0003 



REFERENCES 
Cheese 

BUCHANAN. Household Bacteriology. 

CONN. Bacteria in Milk and its Products. 

DOANE. The Digestibility of Cheese. United States Department 

of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, Circular 166 

(1911). 
DOANE and LAWSON. Varieties of Cheese: Descriptions and 

Analysis. United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau 

of Animal Industry, Bulletin 105. 

GIRONCI, M. Italian Recipes, translated and arranged by. 
LANGWORTHY and HUNT. Cheese and its Economical Uses in the 

Diet. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' 

Bulletin 487 (1912). 
LARSON and WHITE. Dairy Technology. 
MARSHALL. Microbiology. 
SHERMAN. Food Products. 



1 Also called Standard Portion (S. P.). 



106 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

STOLTZ. Some Dairy By-products: Fermented Milk, Pimento 
Cheese. Ohio State University, Agricultural College, Farmers' 
Reading Course (1913). 

VAN SLYKE and PUBLOW. The Science and Practice of Cheese 
Making. 

WILEY. Foods and their Adulterations. 

WING. Milk and its Products. 



CHAPTER VIII 
EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 

EGGS have been used for food from the earliest times to the 
present day. While those of other fowl are also eaten, hens* 
eggs are so far the most common that they will be understood 
when the term eggs is used though most of the statements 
made would apply to the eggs of other fowl also. 

The nutrients of eggs are interesting in their nature and will 
be studied experimentally as described below. For statements 
of the quantitative composition see Leach's Food Inspection 
and Analysis, Chapter IX, and Sherman's Food Products, 
Chapter V. From the place of eggs in nature and from the 
results of nutrition experiments we know that the constituents 
of eggs are adapted to serve as material for the construction of 
muscle, bone, and blood. 

The best egg is naturally one strictly fresh. Newly laid 
eggs may be preserved by cold storage or water glass (sodium 
or potassium silicate). Other methods practiced to some ex- 
tent and more or less successfully are packing the eggs in saw- 
dust, salt, or lime, or coating the shell with lard, paraffin, or wax. 
Cold storage and the use of water glass are the best methods. 
Other methods are less effective and are apt to impart a dis- 
agreeable flavor. 

EXPERIMENTS 

114. Determine: a. about how many unbroken eggs there are in 
a pound. 

b. how many eggs minus the shell there are in a pound. 
107 



108 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

c. how many tablespoonfuls in i whole egg : 

1. unbeaten. 

2. beaten. 

d. how many tablespoonfuls in the beaten yolk and white, 
respectively. 

115. Examine with a hand lens a portion of egg shell. Note 
its porous condition. Examine an egg shell which has been im- 
mersed in water glass. How does this differ from that first examined ? 
Explain the difference. What is water glass? How does water 
glass preserve eggs? 

116. Various other preservatives are used to keep eggs. Ex- 
plain the use of the following : 

lime lard 

paraffin sawdust 

vaseline cold storage 

Cooking of Eggs. Temperature and Time 

117. For this experiment select saucepans of uniform size, shape, 
and material, using i pint of water in each case. 

a. boil egg rapidly for i minute } have the water boiling 

b. boil egg rapidly for 3 minutes/ when the egg is immersed. 

c. put egg in water at 80 C., cover and let stand for 
10 minutes. 

d. put egg in cold water and bring to the boiling point. 

e. boil an egg for 10 minutes. 
/. boil an egg for 20 minutes. 

g. put an egg in water at 80 C., cover and allow to stand 
for 45 minutes. 

h. put an egg in water at boiling point, cover and allow 
to stand 45 minutes. 

118. Arrange a repetition of the above experiment so that eggs 
will be ready to remove from shell at the same time. Remove 
egg from shell. Examine and compare yolks and whites as to tex- 
ture, ease of removing from shell, firmness of white, toughness of 
white. 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 109 

119. Remove eggs from shell and cook as follows, using i pt. of 
water in each instance. Use first an iron frying pan, then an agate 
or enamel pan. Compare the results. 

a. Poach egg in hot water until yolk is coated. (Save the 
water.) 

b. Repeat, using i tsp. salt in water. 

c. Repeat, using i tsp. vinegar in water. 

d. Turn egg into boiling water, remove from bunsen burner, 
cover and let stand 2 minutes. 

e. Compare each result as to texture, firmness of yolk, 
taste. Save the water in each instance for the next experiment. 

120. Examine the water used in Expt. 119, a, with the following 

tests : 

Biuret, page 85 

Xanthoproteic, page 85 

Iodine, page 13 

Fehling-Benedict solution, page 13 

Filter a little of the water used in 119 and heat filtrate. 
Conclusions ? 

121. Beat an egg white until stiff, fold in 3 tbsp. granulated 
sugar. Drop by spoonfuls on to a greased paper and bake in a slow 
oven until brown. Try to remove \ of the meringue at once. Allow 
the remainder to stand until cold. Remove. Compare with those 
removed while warm. Explain the difference. 



Soft-cooked Egg 

Ingredients : 

i egg i c. boiling water 

Method: 

Place boiling water in a saucepan. Put unbroken egg carefully 
in saucepan, cover pan and let stand 5 minutes. 

Hard-cooked Egg 

Prepare as soft-cooked, but allow egg to remain in water 45 minutes. 



HO LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Coddled Egg 

Butter a ramekin. Break an egg carefully into a saucer and slip 
into the ramekin. Place in a pan of boiling water and cook until 
the white is firm. 

Shirred or Baked Egg 

Prepare as coddled egg. Cook in a pan of water in the oven. 
Ramekins may be lined with seasoned buttered crumbs and egg 
covered with the crumbs. 

Poached Egg 

Rub the bottom of an omelet pan lightly with butter. Fill pan 
three fourths full of boiling water. Break an egg into a saucer and 
slip into the boiling water. Lower flame so the water will not boil, 
and allow egg to remain in the water 3-10 minutes. If the water does 
not cover the yolk, dip water over it carefully with a spoon until a film 
forms over yolk. Remove with a skimmer to a slice of buttered 
toast and garnish with parsley. 



Scrambled Eggs 

Ingredients : 

5 eggs | tsp. pepper 

c. milk ^ tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. butter 
Method: 

Beat eggs slightly, add seasonings and milk. Heat omelet pan, 
put in butter, and when melted pour in the mixture. Cook until 
creamy, stirring and scraping from the bottom of the pan. 



Omelets 

For omelets select large eggs. Use i tbsp. of liquid and f tsp. of 
salt for each egg. Never try to make an omelet using more than 4 
eggs, as mixture will brown before being cooked through. Keep an 
omelet pan especially for omelets and see that it is kept clean and 
smooth. 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES III 

Foamy Omelet 

Ingredients : 

2 eggs 2 tbsp. milk or water 

| tsp. salt cayenne or white pepper 

i tsp. butter 

Method: 

Beat yolks of eggs until light and creamy; add seasonings and milk. 
Beat the whites until stiff, but not dry; cut into yolks. Heat an 
omelet pan, rub it with butter, pour in the mixture and spread it 
evenly on the pan. Cook over low flame. When set, put in hot 
oven for a few minutes to dry on top. Fold and serve at once. 



French Omelet 

4 eggs | tsp. pepper 

4 tbsp. milk tsp. salt 

2 tsp. butter 

Method: 

Beat eggs slightly, enough to blend yolks and whites. Add milk 
and seasonings. Put butter in hot omelet pan ; when melted, pour 
in mixture and place over a low flame. As it cooks draw the edges 
toward the center with a knife until the whole is of a creamy con- 
sistency. Place on hotter part of range that it may brown quickly. 
Fold and turn on hot platter. 

Additions: 

Grated cheese, jelly, jam, chopped meats, peas, or parsley placed 
in omelet before folding, or a highly seasoned tomato sauce may be 
served around it. 

Egg-in-Nest 

Arrange stiffly beaten white of an egg on a slice of buttered toast. 
Make a depression in the center and drop in the unbeaten yolk. 
Sprinkle with salt. Brown in a moderate oven. 



112 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Scrambled Eggs with Tomato Sauce 

Ingredients : 

6 eggs 4 tbsp. butter 

if c. tomatoes i slice onion 

2 tbsp. sugar | tsp. salt 

| tsp. pepper 
Method: 

Simmer tomatoes and sugar five minutes ; brown butter and onion 
three minutes ; remove onion and add tomatoes, seasonings, and eggs 
slightly beaten. Cook as scrambled eggs. 

Eggs a la Goldenrod 
Ingredients : 

3 hard-cooked eggs \ tsp. salt 

i tbsp. butter tsp. pepper 

i tbsp. flour 5 slices toast 

i c. milk parsley 

Method: 

Make a thin white sauce with butter, flour, milk, and seasonings. 
Remove yolks from hard-cooked eggs. Chop whites finely and add 
to the sauce. Cut four slices of toast in halves lengthwise ; arrange 
on platter, and pour over the sauce. Force the yolks through a 
potato ricer or strainer, and sprinkle them over the top. Garnish 
with parsley and remaining toast cut in points. 




" Liquid Glass " for Preserving Eggs 

Ingredients : 

i qt. " liquid glass " (a concentrated commercial solution of 

sodium silicate). 
9 qts. boiled and cooled water. 

Method: 

Mix the liquid glass and boiled water in a clean crock or stone jar. 
Carefully wipe strictly fresh eggs and with a spoon or other con- 
venient utensil place the eggs in the crock. The crock may be 
filled with eggs to the point of the liquid just covering the top layer. 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 113 

Cover the crock with tin cover or stone cover. It does not need to 
be air-tight. When removing eggs from the crock, do so with a spoon. 
Wash them carefully and, if they are to be boiled, prick the shell. 
The pores of the shell are filled with the liquid glass and as the air 
and water within the shell expand with the heat, the shell is likely to 
explode and thus spoil the egg as a " hard-cooked " product. 



FOOD VALUE 
Scrambled Egg 













W 






g 


M d 









g* 


3 


H B 





3% 


H 


R^a 


g2 





MATERIAL 


<! 


M c3 


o a 




a <3 


H o 


o 


y S rt 


flSp 


o 




1 


go 




** 


I 5 


*6 




$ 


*$> 


If 


^(5 












u 








*~s 




Egg 


I 


45- 


6.03 


4.72 




6 7 


.0366 


039 


.157 


.0012 


Milk 


if tbsp. 


22. 


.72 


.88 


1.09 


is 


.0022 


-034 


.045 


.0001 


Butter .... 


I tbsp. 


7-8 


.07 


6.63 




60 


.0045 


.0018 


.0024 




Salt 






















Pepper .... 






















Total, cooked . . 


1 c. 


61.2 


6.82 


12.22 


I.OQ 


142 


.0433 


.0748 


.2044 


.0013 


loo-Calorie Portion : 


tc. 


42.8 


4.77 


8.55 


.76 


100 


03 


0523 


.143 


.0008 




SOUFFLES 

combinations of cooked or uncooked mixtures and 
whites of eggs baked in a moderate oven. They should 
servecmmediately. A sauce improves fruit souffles. 
Whips are the same combinations unbaked and piled lightly in 
glasses for serving. 

Essentials for Successful Souffles 
Good eggs. 
Stiffly beaten whites. 

Buttered molds, buttered and sugared for fruit souffles. 
Very moderate oven. 

1 Also called Standard Portion (S.P.). 
I 



114 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Souffles 

Varieties : 

I. Made with a white sauce : 

a. Meat, fish, rice, cheese. 

b. Custard. 

II. Made without a white sauce : 

a. Vegetable. 

b. Fruit. 

Fruit Souffle 

Ingredients : 

f c. pulp sweetened 3 egg whites 

salt 
Method: 

Fresh, dried, or canned fruit may be used. Drain sirup from 
canned fruit. Press pulp through a strainer and add to the stiffly 
beaten whites. Use a Dover beater and continue beating until very 
light. Place in buttered, sugared molds in pan of warm water. 
Bake in a moderate oven until firm. 

Custard Souffle 

Ingredients : 

3 tbsp. butter i c. scalded milk 

I c. flour 4 eggs 

$ c. sugar i tsp. vanilla 

Method: 

Melt butter, add flour, and gradually hot milk ; when well thick- 
ened pour on yolks of eggs beaten until thick and lemon-colored, and 
mixed with sugar ; cool, and cut and fold in whites of eggs beaten 
stiff and dry. Turn into buttered pudding dish, place in a pan of 
warm water, and bake in a moderate oven until firm. 

Lemon Souffle 

Ingredients : 

Yolks 4 eggs i c. sugar 

Grated rind and juice i lemon whites 4 eggs 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 115 

Method: 

Beat yolks until thick and lemon-colored, add sugar gradually 
and continue beating, add the lemon rind and juice. Cut and fold 
in whites of eggs beaten until dry. Bake as Custard Souffle. 

Vegetable Souffle 

Wash, peel, and mash vegetables as in preparing mashed potatoes. 
Moisten with milk or cream. Fold in the beaten yolks and stiffly 
beaten whites. Bake as Custard Souffle. 

Corn and Cheese Souffle 

Ingredients : 

i tbsp. butter i c. chopped corn 

1 tbsp. chopped green pepper i c. grated cheese 
\ c. flour 3 eggs 

2 c. milk | tsp. salt 

Method : 

Melt the butter and heat the pepper in it for 2 minutes. Add 
the flour, and stir the milk in slowly. When the white sauce is thick- 
ened, add the corn, cheese, yolks of eggs, and seasonings. Cut and 
fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Bake as Custard Souffle. 

Meat Souffle 

Ingredients : 

1 c. thick white sauce |-i c. cooked meat, poultry, 
1-3 eggs or fish 

Method: 

Mix meat with warm sauce. Season highly. Cool and fold in 
stiffly beaten yolks and stiffly beaten whites. Bake as Custard 
Souffle. 

Cheese Souffle 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. butter few grains cayenne 

3 tbsp. flour | c. grated Old English or 
c. scalded milk Young America cheese 

| tsp. salt yolks 3 eggs 

whites 3 eggs 



Il6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Melt butter, add flour, and, when well mixed, add scalded milk 
gradually. Then add salt, cayenne, and cheese. Remove from 
fire. Add yolks of eggs beaten until lemon-colored. Cool mixture 
and cut and fold in whites of eggs beaten until stiff and dry. Bake 
as Custard Souffle. 

EXPERIMENTS WITH DEEP FAT FRYING 

122. a. Prepare potato chips by the following methods : 

Raw potato sliced very thin. 

Parboil potato and slice very thin. 

Raw potato soaked in ice water 20 minutes. 

Raw potato soaked in salt solution (2 tsp. salt to 2 c. 

ice water) 20 minutes. 

In each case dry the potato carefully before immersing in the fat 
or oil. 

b. Prepare deep fat, using the following fats and oils : 

lard cottonseed oil 

crisco peanut oil 

olive oil corn oil 

Arrange utensils and fats and oils so that the heating may begin at 
the same time. Note initial temperatures and length of time re- 
quired for the medium to reach the proper temperatures for deep fat 
frying. Test constantly with a slice of raw unsoaked potato, and 
when each has reached the required temperature fry samples of the 
potato prepared in a separately in each medium. Note the tem- 
peratures, of each fat or oil, the length of time required for frying 
each potato, and the character of the product. 

123. If a thermometer of sufficient range is available, deter- 
mine the temperature at which each of the above fats shows 
evidence of being decomposed by heat. What is the evidence in 
each case ? 

In a recent study by Blunt and Feeney (Journal of Home Eco- 
nomics, Vol. VII, page 535) the temperatures at which certain fats 
begin to give off visible fumes are reported as follows : 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 117 

Cottonseed oil (Wesson) 233 C. 

Snowdrift 232 C. 

Crisco 231 C. 

Leaf lard 221 C. - 

Butter fat 208 C. 

Leaf lard (heated 5 hours) 207 C. 

Bulk lard 194 C. 

A much-used lard 190 C. 

Olive oil 175 C. 

Peanut oil I 162 C. 

Peanut oil II 149 C. 

Coconut oil 136 C. 

How do your results compare with these? Where results differ, 
is the difference attributable to differing conditions of experimenta- 
tion or to variation in the material tested ? 

124. a. Prepare doughnuts, using the recipe in the book. Roll 
them to uniform thickness and cut with the same cutter. 

b. Arrange the following fats and oils in utensils of uniform 
size and shape and begin heating at the same time : 

Fats: 

lard olive oil 

| lard, | crisco peanut oil 

crisco corn oil 

beef drippings mutton drippings 

c. Note the initial temperatures of each fat or oil, and test- 
ing constantly with the doughnut mixture, find the proper temper- 
ature for each medium for an uncooked flour mixture. 

d. Fry doughnuts in each fat and oil. Note the flavor of 
the product, the amount of fat absorbed, the color. Allow samples 
of each cooked doughnut to remain in a tin box and note the rapidity 
with which each becomes dry and hard. 

125. a. Prepare rice croquettes. Shape croquettes, using ap- 
proximately the same amount of mixture in each croquette, measur- 
ing in level tablespoons. Fry croquettes in each of the above fats 
and oils immediately after using tlienvfor doughnuts. Note the 



Ii8 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

flavor of the croquettes, the absorption of odor of doughnuts, the 
color, crispness of the crust. 

b. Summarize your conclusions as to the appropriateness 
of each fat or oil as a frying medium. 

126. Using the optimum temperatures for frying for each fat 
or oil, test the frying of a piece of bread. Note the number of seconds 
required by each fat to brown the bread. Does it prove the usual 
statement, " 40 seconds required for browning a piece of bread is 
sufficient for browning a cooked mixture as croquettes ; 60 sec- 
onds is required for cooking and browning an uncooked mixture " ? 

127. Cut up in small pieces, weigh, and sauter equal quantities of 
boiled potato in unit quantities of each of the fats and oils. Weigh 
again and determine which fat is most easily absorbed by the potato. 

128. From your correlated reading and experiments what do you 
conclude as to the wholesomeness of deep fat frying or sauteing of 
food as a method of cooking? 

Croquettes 

Croquettes are made with a base of meat, fish, egg, cheese, nuts, 
rice, beans, or other vegetables. These need to be combined with 
either white sauce, egg, starchy vegetables as potato, rice, cereals, 
or crumbs. 

The crumbs : 

Use crumbs from outside of loaf for first coating, use crumbs from 
inside of loaf for second coating. 
Season crumbs before using. 
Cracker crumbs are not desirable as they give a " pasty " crust. 

The egg: 

The whole egg is preferable. Add water equal to volume of egg. 
Beat slightly. 

If white alone is used, add to each white \ tbsp. oil, | tbsp. water. 
If yolk is used alone, add | tbsp. cold water to each yolk. 

NOTE : The white alone gives a tough crust ; the yolk gives a tender crust. 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 119 

The fat for frying : 

The fat should be unburned lard, or crisco, free from particles of 
previous frying. 

Use a flat-bottom frying kettle, keep an iron gas spreader over the 
gas jet, and do not allow fat to bubble to rim of kettle. 

Test fat, timing the> browning of a piece of bread. Fry croquettes 
made with previously cooked mixtures about 40 seconds. Fry 
croquettes made with uncooked mixture 60 seconds. 

Drain croquettes on absorbent brown paper. Croquettes may be 
reheated in the oven or double boiler. 



Rice Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

\ c. rice \ tsp. salt 

2-3 tbsp. milk i*& tsp. pepper 

1 egg cayenne 

2 tbsp. butter 2 tbsp. chopped parsley 

Method : 

Boil rice. Add milk, butter, seasonings, and beaten egg. Cook 
in a double boiler and cool. Form into balls, roll in sifted crumbs, 
shape, dip in egg, and reshape. Chill. Fry in deep fat. 



Potato Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

2 c. hot riced potatoes cayenne 

2 tbsp. butter 4 few drops onion juice 

\ tsp. salt yolk i egg 

| tsp. pepper i tsp. finely chopped parsley 

\ tsp. celery salt milk if necessary 

Method : 

Add ingredients in order given to the potatoes. 
Proceed as for Rice Croquettes. 



120 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Cheese Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

3 tbsp. butter i c. cheese cut in small cubes 

^ c. flour | c. grated Parmesan cheese 

f c. milk. | tsp. salt 

yolks 2 eggs paprika 

Method: 

Make a white sauce of flour, butter, seasonings, and milk. Add 
beaten yolks and cheese. Cool. Proceed as for Rice Croquettes. 



Nut and Raisin Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

i c. stale bread crumbs 2 egg yolks 

c. milk salt 

i c. chopped nut meats pepper 

i c. chopped raisins 
Method: 

Soak bread in milk until soft. Add nuts, seasonings, beaten yolks, 
and raisins. Proceed as for Rice Croquettes. 



Chicken Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

3! c. chopped chicken i tbsp. parsley 

onion juice 2 tsp. lemon juice 

Make i pt. of very thick cream sauce : 

i pt. cream and milk if tsp. salt 

I c. butter \ tsp. white pepper 

\ c. flour i tsp. celery salt 

cayenne 
Method: 

Add the sauce to the chopped chicken and seasonings. Cool. 
Proceed as for Rice Croquettes. 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 121 

Beef and Rice Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

1 c. chopped beef I tsp. pepper 
^ c. rice (cooked) cayenne 

\ tsp. salt tomato sauce 

Method : 

Mix beef and rice, add salt, pepper, and cayenne. Cool. Proceed 
as for Rice Croquettes. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Veal or Lamb Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

2 c. chopped cold cooked veal cayenne 

\ tsp. salt few drops onion juice 

| tsp. pepper yolk i egg 

i c. thick white sauce or stock 
Method : 

Mix ingredients in order given. Cool. Proceed as for Rice 
Croquettes. 

SCORE CARD 

Croquettes 

General appearance 30 

Uniformity (10) 

Color (10) 

Size and shape (10) 

Mixture 50 

Consistency (40) 

Flavor (10) 

Crust 20 

Freedom from excessive fat (10) 
Thickness (5) 

Tenderness (5) 

100 



122 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

REFERENCES 
Eggs 

ATWATER and BRYANT. Composition of American Food Materials. 
United States Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment 
Stations, Bulletin 28. 

BARROWS. Eggs : Facts and Fancies Compiled about Them. 

Demonstrations. Eggs and Milk. Iowa State College of Agri- 
culture, Extension Department, Short Course Class Notes, No. 4. 

LANGWORTHY. Eggs and their Uses as Food. United States De- 
partment of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 128. 

LEACH. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

MAURER. Bacteriological Studies on Eggs. Kansas State Agri- 
cultural College Experiment Station, Bulletin 180 (1911). 

REMINGTON. A Study of Commercial Eggs. United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Bulletin 51 (1914). 

SHERMAN. Food Products. 

THOMPSON. Studies in Egg Marketing. University of Minnesota, 
Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 132 (1913). 

TIBBLES. Foods: Their Origin, Composition and Manufacture. 

WILEY. Foods and their Adulteration. 

Cooking in Fats 

BLUNT and FEENEY. The Smoking Temperatures of Edible Fats. 
Journal of Home Economics, vol. VII, page 535 (December, 



CHAPTER IX 
MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 

MEATS are derived from the flesh of domestic and wild ani- 
mals chiefly if not exclusively of herbivorous habits, and from 
fowls. The most important kinds are beef (ox), veal (calf), 
mutton (sheep), lamb (young sheep), pork (pig), ham and 
bacon (pig), venison (deer). Poultry includes chickens, turkeys, 
ducks and geese, guinea hens, and game birds. 

The quality of meat is dependent on the condition of the 
animal from which it is derived. Of all the foods, meat is the 
one most subject to conditions rendering it unwholesome or even 
dangerous. Certain diseases of animals are communicable to 
man through eating of the flesh, and there is danger that through 
lack of cleanliness in slaughterhouses and exposure to dust 
and flies, meat may be infected with Bacillus enteritidis which 
produces poisonous products which are not destroyed by cook- 
ing and which are now considered to be the commonest cause 
of food poisoning so-called " ptomaine " poisoning. 

The United States Department of Agriculture, under the 
meat inspection law of 1906, provides for the inspection of 
establishments which send products into foreign or interstate 
commerce. There are, however, many establishments which 
do business entirely within one state and they may or may not 
have local inspection. For the need of state inspection see 
United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal 
Industry, Circular 154 (1908). 

In meat as it is purchased we have bone, fat, and the flesh, 
consisting of the muscle of the animal with its connective tissue. 

123 



124 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

The color of the meat should be clear and bright, not purplish. 
There should be very little odor, and the meat should be firm 
and elastic to the touch. 

Meat is valuable chiefly for its protein, fat, and ash constit- 
uents. The protoplasm of the muscle cells consists mainly 
of proteins partially dissolved in 3 to 4 tunes their weight of 
water. The fat is deposited partly in the cells and partly in 
the connective tissue between the cells, where it forms in layers. 
Fat does not alter the composition of the actual protoplasm 
since it neither dissolves in nor absorbs water. When an ani- 
mal is killed, the muscular protoplasm coagulates (rigor mortis), 
but without essential change in the amount or distribution of 
moisture, protein, or fat. Muscle protein and gelatin differ 
conspicuously in their content of amino acids. It is now known 
that the inadequacy of gelatin alone as protein food is due to 
the absence of certain ammo-acid radicles, particularly trypto- 
phan and ty rosin. Special interest attaches to the " extrac- 
tives " of meat, to which its flavor is largely due, and to the 
purins which give rise to uric acid in the body. Among the 
extractives creatin is most conspicuous. The purins exist 
" free " (as in the form of hypoxanthin, adenin, guanin) and 
" bound " as constituents of the nucleoproteins. 

Cold storage, drying, canning, and the application of preserv- 
ative substances are the principal means of preserving meats. 
Salt, sugar, vinegar, and wood smoke are condimental as well 
as preservative in their properties, and there is no restriction 
upon their use. Saltpeter maintains the red color of meat and 
preserves it. Boric acid and borax, which when used are 
employed purely for their preservative effect, and sulphites 
are not permitted under the present United States meat in- 
spection law. 

For fuller discussion of composition, nutritive value, preser- 
vation and inspection of meat, read Sherman's Food Prod- 
ucts, Chapters VI and VII. 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 125 

MEAT EXPERIMENTS 

129. Examine a shin of beef for fat, connective tissue, tendons, 
ligaments, blood vessels (veins and arteries), bone tissue, and muscles. 

Prepare round steak for the following experiments by grinding 
through meat grinder. 

130. a. Mix 2 tbsp. meat and i c. cold water. Let stand i hour. 

b. Mix 2 tbsp. meat and i c. cold water and | tsp. salt. 
Let stand i hour. 

c. Mix 2 tbsp. meat and i c. cold water and i tbsp. vine- 
gar. Let stand i hour. 

d. Mix 2 tbsp. meat and i c. warm water and ^ tsp. salt. 
Let stand i hour. 

e. Mix 2 tbsp. meat and i c. boiling water. Boil i minute, 
and let stand i hour. Compare results. In which instances is most 
color and flavor extracted ? Explain these phenomena. 

131. Remove as much muscle and fat as possible from a shoulder 
of veal. Crack the bone in several places. Place in cold water to 
cover, adding ^ tsp. salt to each pint of water and let simmer for 6 
hours. Remove the bone, strain the liquid through a wet cheesecloth, 
and put in a cold place to cool. Let the stock remain in ice box 
overnight and then observe change in consistency. (Keep for Expt. 
132.) 

a. Note the layer of fat on surface covering the jelly under- 
neath. Could the small amount of fatty tissue left on the bone 
have furnished enough fat to form such a layer? 

b. What was the source of the fat? 

132. To a small portion of the jelly from Expt. 131 apply the 
following tests : 

a. Biuret, page 85. 

b. Xanthoproteic, page 85. 

c. Fehling-Benedict, page 13. 

d. Iodine, page 13. 



126 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

133. Note the color and flavor of the jelly. Why is it lighter 
colored and lacking in flavor? What kind of meat is added to soup 
stock for color and flavor? Why? 

134. Rub a piece of tough round steak with a small amount of 
baking soda. Allow it to stand \ hour and then pan-broil. Repeat, 
using vinegar or lemon juice. Broil. Compare as to flavor, texture, 
ease of cutting with silver knife, and mastication. How do you 
account for the differences observed ? 

136. Again prepare pieces of steak, A and B, as in Expt. 134. 
Put A in a hot frying pan, B in a cold frying pan. Turn each as soon 
as seared on one side. Compare as to texture, flavor, and amount 
of gravy left in pan. 

Conclusions. 

136. Cut bacon into slices A, B, and C 

A cut very thin } 

B cut moderately thin > weigh each 

C cut thick J 

Fry each to the following stages : rare, medium, and crisp. Weigh 
the amount of fat left in pan in each case. How much is lost ? 

137. Use slices cut as in A, B, C. Broil and compare with 
products in Expt. 136. Which method of preparing bacon is best ? 
Why? 

138. a. Prepare a meat stew in both the pressure and fireless 
cooker. 

b. Compare the thoroughness of cooking, length of time 
required, flavor. 

c. Compute the saving in time, labor, and fuel. Note the 
temperature of each cooker. 

d. What are the advantages of the pressure and the fireless 
cookers over the coal or gas stove ? 




1. Keck. 

2. Chuck. 

3. Ribs. 

4. Shoulder clod. 

5. Fore shank. 

6. Brisket. 

7. Cross ribs. 

8. Plate. 

9. Navel. 

10. Loin. 

11. Flank. 

12. Rump. 

13. Round. 

14. Second cut round. 

15. Hind shank. 




FIGURE i. Cuts of Beef (U. S. Dept. Agriculture). 

127 



128 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 




FIGURE 2. Side of Beef (U. S. Dept. Agriculture). 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 



I2 9 




s 

61 s 
j-dS** fe 

8 g- "S g 

^a ^ o >4 
i ROaNfl 

9 r4 CJ CO ^ 10 



130 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 




MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 




132 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

SOUPS 

Soups may be divided into two main classes, meat soups and 
vegetable soups. Those made from meat obtain their flavor 
from extractives which are stimulating, but have almost no food 
value. Vegetable soups usually have a higher nutritive value, 
since the pulp of vegetables" used as flavoring or thickening is 
commonly served as a part of the soup. 

Stock Soups 

Stock soups are made from beef, veal, mutton, fish, or poultry 
separately or in combination. Left-overs, meats or vegetables, may 
be used alone or with fresh meats to make stock. They often im- 
prove stock by imparting delicious new flavors. 

Bouillon, lean beef; delicately seasoned, usually cleared. 
Consomme, two or three kinds of meat; highly seasoned, al- 
ways cleared. 
Brown stock, beef; highly seasoned with vegetables, spices, and 

herbs. 

White stock, veal or chicken ; delicately seasoned. 
Old-fashioned stock, thickened with vegetables. Some fat re- 
mains in this soup. 

Soup Accompaniments 

Flour pastes, plain and fancy Croutons 

Vegetables, cut in plain and fancy shapes Cooked cereals 

Fritter batter, forced through a strainer and fried Royal custard 

Other Uses for Soup Stock 
Gravies Sauces 

Seasoning for meats Aspic jelly 

Preparation of combination soups as Creole, Mongole 

Meat left from soup making is tasteless, but contains about as 
much protein as fresh meat. It may be seasoned, mixed with a sauce 
and made into the following " Left-over " dishes : 



c. each cut in dice 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 133 

Croquettes Hash Creamed on toast 

Minced on toast Souffle Scalloped 

Meat pie Cottage pie Casserole with vegetables 

Warmed in gravy Salad or rice 

Brown Soup Stock 

Ingredients : 

6 Ibs. shin of beef (f lean 3 sprigs thyme 

meat, ^ bone and fat) 2 sprigs parsley 

3 qts. cold water carrot 

\ tsp. peppercorns turnip 

6 cloves onion 

\ bay leiif celery 

i sprig marjoram 
Method: 

Wipe beef and cut the lean meat in inch cubes. Brown J of meat 
in marrow from bone. Add the water to the remaining f meat, the 
bone and fat, and let stand 30 minutes. Add browned meat and heat 
gradually to boiling point. Remove scum as it rises. Cover and 
simmer 6 hours. Add vegetables and seasonings. Simmer i^ 
hours longer ; strain and cool as quickly as possible. 

To Clear Soup Stock 

Method: 

Remove fat from stock while cold. Allow white and shell of i 
egg to i qt. stock. Beat white slightly, break shell in small pieces 
and add to stock. Boil 2 minutes. Remove scum and strain 
through double thickness of cheesecloth. If more seasonings are 
necessary, add as soon as stock has lost its jelly-like consistency. 

Chicken Soup 

Ingredients : 

i \ qts. chicken stock 2 tbsp. rice 

\ bay leaf 2 tbsp. noodles 

\ tsp. peppercorns 2 tbsp. vermicelli 

Method: 

Simmer stock and seasonings \ hour. Strain. Add the rice and 

flour pastes, previously cooked in 2 c. boiling water in a double boiler. 



134 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Vegetable Soup 

Ingredients : 

i c. cubed carrots 3 qts. water 

i c. cubed turnips f c. butter 

1 c. cubed celery 2 tbsp. flour 

2 c. cubed potatoes i tbsp. parsley 
i c. chopped onions i tbsp. salt 

f tsp. pepper 
Method: 

Cook all the vegetables except potato and onion in 6 tbsp. of butter 
10 minutes. Add the potato and cook 2 minutes, the onion and 
water and cook | hour. Mix 2 tbsp. of butter with the flour and 
add the first mixture slowly and the seasonings. Cook \ hour longer 
and add the parsley. 

Mongol e Soup 

Ingredients : 

i qt. brown stock 10 allspice berries 

i qt. tomatoes 6 cloves 

\ onion sliced \ bay leaf 

i sprig parsley \ tsp. celery salt 

\ c. butter \ tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 

\ c. flour \ tbsp. vinegar 

Method: 

Cook stock, tomatoes, onion, parsley, spices for 30 minutes. Brown 
butter, add flour and, gradually, the above mixture. Bring to the 
boiling point. Strain, add Worcestershire sauce and vinegar. 



Creole Soup 

Ingredients : 

i qt. brown stock salt 

1 pt. tomatoes pepper 
3 tbsp. chopped green peppers cayenne 

2 tbsp. chopped onion 2 tbsp. grated horseradish 
c. butter i tsp. vinegar 

| c. flour 1 c. macaroni rings 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 135 

Method: 

Cook pepper and onion in butter 5 minutes. Add flour, stock, 
tomatoes. Simmer 1 5 minutes. Strain, rub through a sieve and sea- 
son highly with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Just before serving, add 
horseradish, vinegar, and macaroni previously cooked and cut in rings. 

MEATS 

TENDER CUTS 

Roasting 

Wipe, trim, tie, or skewer meat into shape. Place on a rack in a 
pan and place pieces of fat from the meat over it. Rub meat over 
with salt and dredge meat and pan with flour. 

Place in the hottest part of oven to sear the outside and brown the 
flour; then remove to a lower shelf and reduce the temperature; 
baste meat every ten minutes until done, unless a covered roaster is 
used. 

Time-table for Roasting 

Beef rare 8-10 minutes per Ib. 

Mutton 15 minutes per Ib. 

Veal 20 minutes per Ib. 

Pork 30 minutes per Ib. 

Chicken until joints separate easily 

Turkey 10 Ibs 3 hours 

Fillet of Beef I 

The tenderloin of beef is known as the fillet. 

Trim into shape a fillet of beef weighing about four pounds, re- 
moving tendinous portions and veins. Tie and skewer this into a 
pear-shaped piece. Lard the top, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and 
dredge with flour. Cover the bottom of a small dripping pan with 
cubes of salt pork. Set a trivet on top of pork, and place the meat 
on the trivet ; allow the meat to roast from 20-30 minutes in hot 
oven, basting it frequently. 

Serve with gravy made from fat in pan, flour, and hot water. 



136 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Fillet of Beef II 

Ingredients : 

i fillet of beef i stalk of celery 

i small onion 4 cloves 

i small carrot 2 bay leaves 

Method: 

Remove all the membranes and excess of fat from the fillet. Cut 
strips of larding pork 3 inches long, | inch wide, and inch thick. 
Chill the strips in ice water. Lard the upper side of the fillet, slice 
the onion, carrot, and celery and place them with the cloves and bay 
leaves in the bottom of the pan. Place the fillet on the vegetables, 
season with salt and pepper, and cover with pieces of butter. Dis- 
solve i tsp. salt in | c. boiling water and pour into the pan. Roast 
in a hot oven for 30 minutes. Baste frequently. Serve with mush- 
room sauce, if desired. 

Stuffed Flank Steak or " Mock Duck " 

Ingredients : 

1 flank or round steak suet 

dressing (see below) 
Method: 

Wipe meat, spread with dressing, roll and tie, or skewer. Place 
suet on top and roast i hour, or until tender. 

Dressing for Flank Steak 

Ingredients : 

2 c. bread crumbs i tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. butter \ tsp. pepper 

. i tbsp. parsley \ tsp. poultry seasoning 

juice of \ onion if desired 

Brown Gravy 

Ingredients : 

2 c. boiling water or \ milk \ c. flour 

salt i c. fat 

pepper 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 137 

Method: 

Remove all but c. of the fat from roasting pan. Place over fire, 
add flour and stir until well browned, then add water slowly; boil 
5 minutes. Season and strain. 



Broiling 

Remove extra fat from meat. Grease the broiler with some of the 
fat. Place broiler close to flame to sear meat, then remove to lower 
part of broiling oven to finish cooking, turning often. Season with 
butter, salt, and pepper. 

Pan-Broiling 

Heat an iron pan very hot. Remove extra fat from steak or chops. 
Sear meat on both sides, then turn frequently until cooked as desired, 
using a knife and fork for turning. Five minutes is necessary for 
lamb chop or steak one inch thick. Season with butter, salt, and 
pepper. 

Broiled Lamb or Mutton Chop 

Wipe chops, remove superfluous fat, and place in a broiler greased 
with some of the mutton fat. In loin chops flank may be rolled and 
fastened with a small wooden skewer. Broil over a clear fire, turning 
every ten seconds for the first minute, that surface may be well 
seared, thus preventing escape of juices. After the first minute, 
turn occasionally until well cooked on both sides. 



Broiled Fillet of Beef 

Cut slices about two inches thick from fillet. Shape in circles. 
Place the circles on greased broiler and broil over hot coals from 
4-6 minutes, turning them every 10 seconds. Serve on hot 
platter ; garnish with slices of broiled tomato and brown mushroom 
sauce. 



138 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Hamburg Steak 

Ingredients : 

i Ib. round of beef i tsp. onion juice 

i tsp. salt i tbsp. butter 

| tsp. pepper i tbsp. parsley 

Method: 

Shape into cakes and pan-broil. 



Pan-Broiled Chops 

Chops for pan-broiling should have flank and most of fat removed. 
Wipe chops and put in a hissing, hot frying pan. Sear on both sides, 
then turn frequently until cooked as desired. Drain on brown paper, 
put on hot platter and spread with small amount of butter and 
seasonings. 

Breaded Mutton Cutlets 

Ingredients : 

8 Frenched chops, cut thin f tsp. salt 

i tbsp. butter tsp. pepper 

4 tbsp. flour i c. cream 

\ c. chopped ham 
Method: 

Make a white sauce of the above ingredients. When thoroughly 
cooked add the finely chopped ham, mix thoroughly and set aside to 
cool. Broil the chops. Season each chop with salt and pepper, 
and cover on both sides with a layer of the sauce. Allow them to 
stand on a buttered plate until firm, then dip in egg and crumbs and 
fry in deep fat until brown. Serve with Cuban or tomato sauce. 



Veal Cutlets I 

Cut a slice from the leg or fillet of veal into pieces for serving. 
Dredge with salt, pepper, and flour ; brown in bacon or salt pork fat. 
Remove from pan. Put 2 tablespoons of flour in the pan ; let brown ; 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 139 

add if cups of broth or water. When it boils, add the cutlets, cover 
and simmer f of an hour, or until the cutlets are tender. 



Veal Cutlets II 

Use slices of veal from leg cut f inch thick. Wipe, remove bone 
and skin, then cut in pieces for serving. The long, irregularly-shaped 
pieces may be rolled and fastened with small wooden skewers. 
Dip in seasoned crumbs, egg and crumbs; place in a pan with butter, 
lard and water, cover and cook until tender in a moderate oven. 30 
to 40 minutes is required. 

Veal Loaf 

Ingredients: 

3 Ibs. lean veal (chopped) 2 tbsp. lemon juice 
| Ib. salt pork (chopped) i tbsp. salt 

6 crackers (ground) \ tbsp. pepper 

4 tbsp. cream onion juice 

Method: 

Mix ingredients, pack in a bread pan, smooth evenly on top, brush 
with white of egg, and bake slowly three hours, basting with pork 
fat. Prick frequently while baking so that pork fat may be absorbed. 



Sweetbreads 

Remove from paper as soon as received from market, plunge into 
cold water and allow to stand i hour. Drain. Place in boiling, 
salted water and add i tsp. lemon juice or vinegar. Cook slowly 
twenty minutes; again drain and plunge into cold water. Free 
from pipe and skin, salt if necessary, and serve as desired. 



Broiled Sweetbreads 

Parboil and cut in halves crosswise. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and broil 5 minutes. Serve with creamed butter to which 
has been added a little lemon juice. 



140 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Creamed Sweetbreads 

Ingredients : 

1 c. cream or rich milk \ tsp. salt 

2 tsp. butter 2 tbsp. flour 

Method: 

Parboil sweetbreads and cut into \ inch cubes. Blend flour and 
a little cold milk to make a smooth mixture. Scald cream in double 
boiler, add the flour mixture and cook thoroughly. Just before 
serving, add the prepared sweetbreads, salt, and butter. Serve hot 
on toasted circles of bread and garnish with parsley, or use as a 
filling for Swedish Timbales or Croustades. 

Bacon I 

Place thin slices of bacon (from which the rind has been removed) 
closely together on a fine wire broiler; place broiler over dripping- 
pan and bake in a hot oven until bacon is crisp and brown, turning 
once. Drain on brown paper. 

Bacon II 

Remove rind from bacon and parboil until slightly puffed. Place 
in hot frying pan and fry until a light brown, turning often and 
removing fat from pan as it tries out. The bacon should be crisp 
and flaky. 

TOUGH CUTS 

Pot Roast of Beef 

Select a piece of four to six pounds from the rump or round. Wipe 
with a dampened cloth and sear all of the surface in a hot frying pan. 
Place in saucepan, add i cup of boiling water, cover closely and cook 
slowly tintil very tender. Sprinkle with salt when nearly done. 
Add water if necessary, but only enough to keep meat from burning. 
Add water to make a gravy thickened with if tsp. flour to i c. 
liquid. 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 141 

Beef Stew 

Ingredients : 

3 Ibs. round of beef 3 carrots 

water to cover i onion 

6 potatoes salt 

flour pepper 

NOTE : i. Salt should be added in the proportion of tsp. ; pepper tsp., and 
flour 4 tsp. to i qt. liquid. A fireless cooker is convenient for 
stews. 

Method: 

Cut beef in pieces, cover with water, bring to boiling point and 
simmer 3 hours, or until meat is tender. Add diced vegetables i hour 
before meat is cooked. Remove vegetables and meat and thicken 
the liquid. Boil 5 minutes and return meat and vegetables to the pan. 

NOTE : 2. Serve with dumplings made like emergency biscuit with shorten- 
ing omitted. Drop by spoonfuls on top of stew, cover, and 
steam until done, then cook three minutes uncovered. 



Beef Broth 
Ingredients : + 

\ Ib. round of beef i c. cold water 

salt 

Method: 

Wipe meat, remove fat, and cut meat in pieces. Add cold water 
and let soak 15 minutes. Put in pan of cold water. Heat water 
slowly to 150 degrees F. Cook 2 hours. Strain and season. Reheat, 
skim off fat with spoon and paper. In reheating, be careful not to 
coagulate the albumin. 

Beef Juice 

Select a piece of meat from the rump or upper round. Wipe, re- 
move fat, cut in pieces, heat in a double boiler until juice flows. 
Squeeze out the juice by means of a press, lemon squeezer, or potato 
ricer. Serve at once in a colored glass. 



142 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

LEFT-OVER MEATS 

Meat Cakes 

Ingredients : 

2 c. cold roast beef i egg 

I c. crumbs 2 tsp. melted butter 

seasoning 
Method: 

Shape into oval cakes and brown in butter. 



Meat Pie 

Ingredients : 

2 c. chopped roast beef i c. mashed potatoes 

gravy seasoning 

Method: 

Combine ingredients except potatoes. Place in a buttered baking 
dish and cover with mashed potato. Brush with beaten egg. Bake 
until potatoes are slightly browned. 



Browned Hash 

Ingredients : 

1 c. meat 4 tbsp. fat 

2 c. mashed potatoes salt and pepper 
| c. boiling water onion juice 

chopped parsley 

Method: 

Put the mixture into a frying pan in which i tbsp. of fat has been 
heated. Spread smoothly ; cook over moderate heat so it will brown 
slowly and not burn. Cook about one half hour and do not stir. 
Fold like an omelet. 

The same mixture may be made into small cakes f inch thick and 
browned in the same way. 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 143 

Casserole of Rice and Meat 

Ingredients : 

2 c. cooked lamb i tbsp. chopped parsley 

i tsp. salt i egg (may be omitted) 

| tsp. pepper i c. fine crumbs 

| tsp. onion juice 4 c. boiled rice 

stock 

Method : 

Season meat and mix with crumbs and beaten egg ; add enough 

stock to make it pack easily. Line a mold with 3 c. rice, fill with 

the meat ; cover with remainder of rice, cover tightly and steam 45 

minutes. Serve with Cuban sauce. 

Casserole of Beef 

Cut cold roast beef and steak alone or in combination in i inch 
cubes ; there should be one quart. Put in a casserole dish and add 
2 c. brown sauce or roast beef gravy, ^ c. celery, and \ c. carrots cut 
in cubes, i onion thinly sliced, i c. canned tomatoes, i tsp. Worces- 
tershire sauce, \ tsp. salt, and \ tsp. pepper. Cover and bake one 
hour ; then add i c. peas, beans, or mushrooms, canned or fresh, i c. 
potato balls, previously cooked in boiling salted water 10 minutes. 
Serve from casserole. 

Casserole of Veal 

Ingredients : 

i Ib. veal 3 c. stock 

3-4 small onions i small piece salt pork 

\ c. cubed carrots i small piece suet 

\ c. cubed onions 6 tbsp. flour 

i stalk celery kitchen bouquet 

8 potato balls seasonings 

Method : 

Brown the vegetables and meat in tried-out salt pork. Make a 
brown* sauce with flour and stock. Pour over the meat and vege- 
tables in a casserole. Bake one hour. 



144 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Souffle of Lamb 

Ingredients : 

2 c. lamb i tsp. kitchen bouquet 

2 tbsp. butter c. stock 

3 tbsp. flour i c. cream or milk 
\ tsp. salt \ c. crumbs 
cayenne i tsp. parsley 

3 eggs 
Method: 

Prepare sauce, add meat, crumbs, and seasonings. Add the well- 
beaten yolks, and fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Bake in 
moderate oven until light. 

Royal Scallop 

Ingredients : 

\ Ib. ham 3 tbsp. flour 

3 hard-cooked eggs 3 tbsp. butter 

parsley i pt. milk 

2 c. buttered crumbs 

Method : 

Scald a blade of mace with the milk, and strain. Make a white 
sauce of the butter, flour, and hot milk. Chop ham and eggs, add 
parsley and white sauce. Prepare as any scalloped dish. Bake in 
hot oven until crumbs are brown. 

MEAT SAUCES 

Brown Sauce 

Ingredients : 

i tbsp. chopped onion 2 tbsp. butter 

i tbsp. chopped carrot 3 tbsp. flour 

i sprig parsley | tsp. salt 

i sprig thyme \ tsp. pepper 

piece bay leaf i c. brown stock 

Method: 

Cook the vegetables and herbs in the butter until brown ; add the 
flour (an extra tbsp. is used as flour loses its thickening quality to 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 145 

some extent when changed to dextrin) and brown. Add the stock 
gradually. Strain before using. 

Brown Mushroom Sauce 

To i c. of brown sauce add J c. canned button mushrooms, whole 
or cut in halves. Fresh mushrooms must be cleaned, pulled, browned 
in butter or simmered in water until tender, before they are added to 
the sauce. 

Mushroom Sauce 

Ingredients : 

drippings from fillet i pt. stock 

2 tsp. butter i pt. cooked mushrooms 

4 tsp. flour i tsp. Worcestershire sauce 

salt and pepper 

Method : 

Heat the butter and drippings until brown, add the flour and then 
the stock gradually. Strain and add the mushrooms. Cook 5 
minutes. Add Worcestershire sauce, salt, and pepper. 

Cuban Sauce I 

Ingredients : 

1 pt. tomatoes \ tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. sugar J c. flour 

1 c. lamb stock \ c. butter 

Method: 

Cook first two ingredients until tomatoes are soft, strain and add 
stock. Melt butter, add flour, and when browned add liquid gradually. 

Cuban Sauce II 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. chopped ham i\ c. stock 
4 tbsp. flour i c. catsup 
4 tbsp. butter \ tsp. salt 

Method: 

Cook ham in the butter until browned. Proceed as for White Sauce. 



146 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Horseradish Sauce 

Ingredients : 

3 tbsp. grated horseradish cayenne 

i tbsp. vinegar | c. cream (whipped) 

1 tsp. salt 

Method: 

Mix first four ingredients. Fold in the cream. 

Spanish Sauce for Steak 

Ingredients : 

% c. catsup i tsp. Worcestershire sauce 

Method: 

Thicken with flour, add i c. mushrooms, and i tsp. horseradish. 

SCORE CARD 

Roast of Meat 

General appearance 30 

Compactness (10) 

Form (10) 

Color (10) 

Meat 70 

Flavor 

Retained (25) 

Seasoning (10) 

Degree of Cooking (10) 

Tenderness developed by Cooking (25) 

100 

GELATIN 

Commercial gelatin is obtained from the skin, ligaments, and 
bones of sound animals. Gelatins made in the kitchen are 
obtained from the tissues, ligaments, and bones of young ani- 
mals or fowl. Gelatin as a food cannot meet the entire protein 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 147 

requirement, since it is lacking certain animo-acid radicles, 
the most important being tryptophan, but this lack may be 
offset by using with gelatin other foods such as milk or cream 
whose proteins are rich in tryptophan. Gelatin is an excellent 
medium for using or disguising milk, eggs, or fruit and may thus 
play a very important part in the diet. 

GELATIN EXPERIMENTS 

In these experiments gelatin used for desserts will be considered. 
See meat experiments, also. 

139. Have at hand samples of various gelatins. Use each 
gelatin as follows : 

a. i tsp. gelatin and | c. hot water. 

b. i tsp. gelatin and j c. boiling water. 

c. i tsp. gelatin and I c. cold water. 
In which is the gelatin most soluble ? 
Does it dissolve in cold water ? 

140. Use one of the dissolved gelatins to make the following tests : 

Biuret, page 85. 
Xanthoproteic, page 85. 
Fehling-Benedict, page 13. 
Iodine, page 13. 
Coagulation on boiling. 

NOTE : It will hardly be necessary to test each gelatin for the above re- 
actions. 

141. Make three solutions A, B, C, using non-acidulated gelatin 
(i tsp. gelatin soaked in i tbsp. cold water, add \ c. boiling water). 

Boil A for 5 minutes. Set on ice in mold. 

Boil B for 10 minutes. Set on ice in mold. 

Boil C for 15 minutes. Set on ice in mold. 

Which is most desirable ? What has happened to the gelatin ? 

142. Make four solutions, A, B, C, D, as in Expt. 141. 
Put A on ice in mold. 



148 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

To B add f c. lemon juice. Put on ice in mold. 

To C, add 2 tbsp. fresh pineapple juice or 4 tbsp. pineapple pulp. 
Thoroughly mix and put on ice in mold. 

To D add 2 tbsp. fresh pineapple juice which has been boiled for 
2 minutes. Thoroughly mix and put on ice in mold. 

What do you observe in B, C, D ? How do you account for the 
failure of the gelatin to solidify in B and C ? 

Compare the consistency of A and D. How do you account for 
the delicacy of D ? Beat D with a Dover egg beater until foamy. 
What gives it this appearance ? 

Have the class divided so that all brands of gelatins are 
used. Compare results. 

Make a table showing the proper amount of : gelatin, liquid, 
fruit juice, sugar. 

GELATIN DESSERTS 
General Rules 

Fill molds with cold water and let stand. 

Soak gelatin in cold water to soften it. 

Add the boiling liquid to the softened gelatin to dissolve it. 

Add sugar to this mixture while hot to dissolve the sugar. 

Strain fruit gelatins through a wet cheesecloth before cooling. 

Cover gelatin mixtures while cooling to protect from dust. 

Varieties 

1. Fruit jellies : Mold after straining ; when firm turn 

Lemon jelly out on serving dish. Serve with soft 

Orange jelly custard or whipped cream. 

2. Fruit jellies with white Cool until sirupy. Add stiffly beaten 

of egg: egg white and beat until firm enough 

Snow pudding ; Sponges . to mold. 

3. Fruit jellies with cream : Add whipped cream when sirupy. 

Bavarian creams 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 



149 



4. Custard jellies : 

Spanish cream 
Macaroon cream 

5. Charlottes: 



Add stiffly beaten white to custard jelly. 
After straining, beat occasionally while 

cooling. Mold when begins to thicken. 
Jellies with the whip from thin cream. 
Add the whip when the mixture begins 

to thicken. 





Fruit J< 


allies 




Ingredients : 


Orange 


Prune 


Lemon 


Gelatin -. . . 


2 tbsp. 


2\ tbsp. 


2 tbsp. 


Cold water . . 


Ic. 


\ c. 


Ic. 


Boiling liquid . 


i c. water 


\ Ib. prunes and 


i c. water 






liquid to make 








2 C. 




Sugar .... 


I C. 


I C. 


Ic. 


Fruit juice . . 


i c. orange juice 


\ c. lemon, juice 


\ c. lemon juice 




juice i lemon 






Ingredients : 


Coffee 


Wine 




Gelatin 


2 tbsp 


i tbsp 




Cold water . . 


. . *c: 


Ic. 




Boiling liquid . 


. . i c. water 


|c. 




Sugar 


i C 


1 C 




Fruit juice . . 




4 ** 

juice i lemon 


, juice \ orange 




2 c. boiled cc 


iffee \ c. wine 





Fruit : When orange or lemon jelly begins to thicken, add sliced 
bananas, cherries, pieces of cooked pineapple, nuts, and orange sections. 

Fruit jellies with whip : Fill glasses f full and let stand until firm. 
Cool a small portion of the jelly until sirupy. Whip until frothy 
and place on top of glasses. 



Sponges 

Ingredients : Pineapple 

Gelatin ........ 2 tbsp. 



Cold water 
Boiling water 



Sugar ......... 1 c. 

Pineapple juice ..... I c. 

Egg whites ....... 3 

Shredded pineapple . . . . % ca 



Chocolate 
2\ tbsp. 
Ic. 
i oz. chocolate and 

scalded milk 
6 tbsp. 
\ tsp. salt 
3 whole eggs 
i tsp. vanilla 



c. 



150 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

* 

Snow Puddings 

Ingredients : Lemon Orange 

Gelatin 2 tbsp. 2 tbsp. 

Cold water c. \ c. 

Boiling water i c. i c. 

Sugar f c. | c. 

Lemon juice f c. 3 tbsp. 

Orange juice , . . . I c. 

Egg whites 3 3 

Spanish Creams 

Ingredients : Plain Macaroon 

Gelatin 2 tbsp. 2 tbsp. 

Cold liquid c. milk f c. water 

Scalded milk 2^ c. 2 c. 

Egg yolks 3 3 

Sugar | c. I c. 

Salt i tsp. | tsp. 

Vanilla i tbsp. 

Egg whites 3 3 

Macaroons f c. crumbs 



Ingredients : 

Gelatin . . 
Cold water 
Boiling liquid 
Sugar . . 
Fruit juice 

Cream . 



Bavarian Creams 

Coffee 
tbsp. 



\ c. coffee 

ie. 



c. (whipped) 



Grape 

if tbsp. 

2f tbsp. 

i c. grape juice 

i c. 

4 tbsp. lemon 

juice 
1 1 c. (whipped) 



Orange 

i tbsp. 

|c. 

\ c. water 

i c. 

i c. orange juice 

\ lemon 
i c. (whipped) 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 



Russe 



Charlottes 

Orange Strawberry Caramel Chocolate Coffee 



Gelatin .... 


i| tbsp. 


if tbsp. 2 1 


bsp. 


i i tbsp. 


1 5 tbsp. 


ij tbsp. 


Cold water . . 


ic. 


Ic. i 




i c. 


ic. 


ic. 


Boiling liquid 


| c. cream 


i c. water f 


water 


i c. water 


| c. cream 


5 c. coffee 


Sugar .... 


1 c. pow- 


1C. I 




i c. cara- 


I c. 


ic. 




dered 






melized 






Thin cream (whip 














from) . . . 


Sic 


3 c. 3 




3 c. 


3 c. 


3C. 


Flavoring . . . 


il tsp. 


i c. orange 2 


. straw- 


i tsp. 


I OZ. 






vanilla 


juice 1 


jerry pulp 


vanilla 


choco- 








3 tbsp. i t 


bsp. 




late 








lemon ] 


emon 




i tsp. 








juice j 


uice 




vanilla 





NOTE : The cream left after removing the whip may be used for other pur- 
poses. 

SCORE CARD 



Gelatin Desserts 



General appearance 
Container 
Form 
Color 

Appearance 
Garnish 



40 



(5) 
do) 
(10) 
(10) 

(5) 



Gelatin mixture , 

Density (10) 

Flavor (40) 

Imperceptibility of gelatin (10) 



60 



100 



REFERENCES 



ATWATER. Poultry as Food. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Farmers' Bulletin 182 (1903). 

ATWATER and BRYANT. The Composition of American Food Mate- 
rials. United States Department of Agriculture, Office of Ex- 
periment Stations, Bulletin 28 (Revised). 

CARVER. The Pickling and Curing of Meat in Hot Weather. Tus- 
keegee Institute, Experiment Station, Bulletin 24 (1912). 



152 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

COOK. Bouillon Cubes : Their Contents and Food Value compared 
with Meat Extracts and Homemade Preparations of Meat. 
United. States Department of Agriculture, Bulletin 27 (1913). 

EDELMANN. Textbook of Meat Hygiene. 

GREEN. How to Cook Meat and Poultry. 

GRINDLEY. Studies of the Effect of Different Methods of Cooking 
upon the Thoroughness and Ease of Digestion of Meat. United 
States Department of Agriculture. Office of the Experiment 
Stations, Bulletin 193 (1907). 

HALL. Market Classes and Grades of Meat. University of Illinois, 
Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin No. 147. 

HALL and EMMETT. Relative Economy, Composition and Nutri- 
tive Value of the Various Cuts of Beef. Illinois Agricultural 
Experiment Station, Bulletin 158 (1912). 

LANGWORTHY. The Guinea Fowl and its Use as Food. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 234 (1905). 

LANGWORTHY and HUNT. Mutton and its Value in the Diet. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 526 

(1913)- 
LANGWORTHY and HUNT. Economical Use of Meat in the Home. 

United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 

No. 391 (Corrected 1910). 
LEACH. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

LIGHTON and DOUGLAS. The Meat Industry and Meat Inspection. 
MITCHELL. Flesh Foods. 
PENNINGTON. The Handling of Dressed Poultry a Thousand Miles 

from the Market. Yearbook of the Department of Agriculture 

for 1912. 

SHERMAN. Food Products. 
SPRAGUE. A Precise Method of Roasting Beef. University of 

Illinois, Bulletin 419 (1907). 
WILEY. Foods and their Adulterations. 

WILEY and BIGELOW. Preserved Meats. United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 13, Part 

10. 
WHITE. Meat. Ohio State University, Agricultural College Home 

Makers' Reading Course (1912). 



CHAPTER X 
POULTRY 

IN selecting poultry see that the flesh is firm, that there is a 
fair amount of fat underneath the skin, that the latter is whole 
and of a clear yellow color, and that the odor is good. Chickens 
and fowls have certain characteristics which make them read- 
ily distinguishable. Chickens have soft feet, a flexible breast 
bone, many pin feathers, and little fat, while fowls have hard 
and scaly feet, a rigid breast bone, long hairs, and a large 
amount of fat around the intestines. 

Poultry is not classed as belonging to the slaughterhouse 
industry and does not come under the provisions of the meat 
inspection law. 

The composition of poultry is essentially the same as that of 
meat. The light meat is composed of more tender fibers less 
firmly held together by connective tissue than the dark meat. 
Light meat also contains less fat. For these reasons, it is apt 
to be more rapidly digested, at least in the stomach, and is 
therefore preferable for persons having weak digestion. 

Dressing and cleaning poultry. The " dressing " of chicken is 
often done now at the market. If it is necessary to do it, make an 
incision with a sharp knife just inside one of the legs, in the groin. 
Remove all entrails. Loosen skin at neck and remove crop. Wash 
thoroughly inside and out, holding the cavity under running water. 
Singe hairs by holding over burning paper or gas flame. Remove 
pin feathers with the point of a knife and cut the oil bag from the tail. 
If it is a fowl, take out the tendons separately, using a skewer. Cut 
the gall bladder away from the liver and cut off the outer coat of the 



154 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

gizzard. Place gizzard and heart in cold water; heat quickly to 
boiling and then simmer until tender. Add the liver a short time 
before removing the other giblets. The giblets may be chopped and 
added to the gravy. 

Trussing poultry. Insert a skewer underneath the legs, then 
thrust another one through the wings and breast. With string, tie 
the ends of the legs together and fasten them to the tail. Wind the 
ends of the string fastened to the tail, around the ends of the skewer 
beneath the legs. Cross the strings over the back, and wind them 
around the ends of the skewer through the wings; tie the strings 
together at the back. 

Boning poultry or birds. To bone birds, chickens, or turkeys, 
select undrawn birds with head and feet on. Remove pin feathers 
and singe. Draw tendons from the legs by making an incision just 
below the knee joint, and with a strong skewer draw the tendons out 
one at a time. Loosen the skin near the feet and cut off feet. 
Make an incision through the skin from the neck to the tail, the 
entire length of the backbone. Scrape the flesh from the bones until 
the shoulder blade is found, then continue scraping around the wing 
joint. Scrape down the backbone to the thigh, then around the 
second joint and leg, cutting tendinous portion when necessary. 
When one side of backbone is boned, bone the other, then remove 
flesh from breastbone, on either side of bird. When flesh is all 
separated from bone, discard carcass (i.e. the skeleton with entrails, 
etc.), wipe flesh and skin, and arrange in original shape. The birds 
may be seasoned and broiled, or stuffed, sewed into shape and steamed. 
Small birds are generally prepared the former way, and large birds 
the latter way. 

Roast Chicken 

Time: 4 Ibs. i hrs. 

Fill cavity of a dressed chicken with stuffing (see below) and sew 
edges together. Truss and place on its back in a roasting pan. 
Dredge with flour, and salt, spread with butter, or lay strips of bacon 
across the chicken. Brown in a hot oven, then reduce temperature, 
cover and baste frequently until breast meat is tender. 



POULTRY 155 

Stuffing for Roast Chicken 

Ingredients : 

i c. crumbs onion juice 

\ c. melted butter parsley 

I tsp. salt | tsp. poultry seasoning 

i tsp. pepper 

Gravy 

Pour off liquid from the pan and place 2 tbsp. chicken fat or butter 
in the pan. Brown with 2 tbsp. flour and i c. stock in which giblets 
were cooked. Season. Strain. 

Evaporate water in pan and add flour. Brown and proceed as 
above. 

Add the flour mixed with a little cold milk to the boiling liquid in 
the pan. 

To Cut up a Fowl for Stewing 

After removing entrails and other organs singe, draw out pin 
feathers, remove tendons, and oil bag. Cut through flesh, at thigh, 
bend back legs and cut off. Separate second joint and drum stick. 
Remove wings and cut off the tips. Separate back from breast by 
cutting through the ribs. Cut breast in two with a cleaver. 

Stewing 

Cover pieces of fowl with boiling water. Simmer until tender, 
adding salt when half cooked. 

Fricasseed Chicken 

Dredge stewed chicken with flour and brown in chicken fat. Ar- 
range on toast surrounded with white or brown sauce and biscuits. 

Fried Chicken 

Dip stewed chicken in flour, egg and flour. Brown in chicken fat 
and lard, or butter and lard. Serve with brown sauce. 



156 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Maryland Chicken 

Dip stewed chicken in flour, egg and fine crumbs. Place in a 
dripping pan with pieces of salt pork or chicken fat. Cover and bake 
30 minutes. Serve with white sauce, broiled bacon, and corn fritters. 

Sauce for Chicken 

Ingredients : 

2 c. chicken stock 4 tbsp. flour 

(half milk may be used) salt 

4 tbsp. chicken fat pepper 

2 tsp. parsley 

Chicken Pie 

Ingredients : 

1 stewed fowl cut in pieces biscuit crust (2 c. flour) 

2 c. brown sauce parsley 

Method: 

Place the chicken in a buttered baking dish, add the brown sauce 
and parsley and cover the mixture with biscuit dough. 

Place a cup in center of baking dish to hold up crust if the baking 
dish is large. Have the brown sauce and chicken hot when the 
crust is added. Bake in a hot oven. 

Chicken en Casserole 

Dress and clean a young, tender fowl and cut in pieces for serving. 
Spread with ^ c. butter, put in a casserole and sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Pour over i c. boiling water, cover, and cook until chicken 
is tender, the time required being about i hour. Add i c. cream 
and 2 c. mushrooms. Cook 10 minutes and thicken with i tbsp. 
flour, diluted with 2 tbsp. water. 

Creamed Chicken 

Equal parts cubed chicken and medium white sauce. Use chicken 
fat instead of butter and half milk and stock for the liquid in the 
white sauce. 



POULTRY 157 

Chicken a la King 

Ingredients : 

i c. chicken cut in strips 3! tbsp. fat 

| c. sauteed mushrooms i tbsp. cornstarch 

1 c. pimentoes i^ c. stock 

j c. peas or half milk and stock 

c. string beans tsp. salt 

i egg yolk 

Creole Chicken 

Ingredients : 

4 tbsp. butter 4 tbsp. flour 

j c. finely chopped onion 2 c. chicken stock 

2 c. stewed tomatoes i finely chopped red pepper 
c. celery salt 

i chicken 
Method : 

Cut chicken in pieces for serving. Brown chicken in butter with 
the onion. Remove chicken, add flour, chicken stock, tomatoes, red 
pepper, celery, and salt. Cook until flavors are well blended. Pre- 
pare chicken in sauce and cook until tender, adding more water as 
liquid evaporates. 

Arrange on serving platter ; surround with gravy and garnish with 
cooked macaroni and parsley. 



CHAPTER XI 
FISH AND SHELLFISH 

THERE is a steadily increasing tendency towards better con- 
servation and more economical utilization of the fishery prod- 
ucts as food. The Government maintains a Bureau of Fish- 
eries and has established stations on the coast and inland lakes 
for the study and protection of these food supplies. The fish- 
ery industries are capable of great development both by im- 
proved methods of handling the well-known species and by 
utilizing as food the flesh of species formerly neglected. 

According to the quantity of fat it contains, fish may be di- 
vided into two classes : (a) lean, or white fish, and (b) oily, or 
dark fish. The flesh of lean fish is light in color and the oil 
is concentrated in the liver. The flesh of oily fish is dark in 
color, and the oil is distributed throughout the body. Cod, hali- 
but, haddock, etc., are white fish. Salmon, mackerel, herring, 
etc., are dark fish. 

Fish may also be divided into two classes, according to the 
water in which they live, fish from the sea being termed salt- 
water fish, and those from inland lakes and rivers, fresh-water 
fish. 

Detailed information in regard to the various species of food 
fish may be obtained from the Reports and Bulletins of the 
United States Bureau of Fisheries. 

Fish is at its best when cleaned and cooked just after being 
caught. Fish to be sold " fresh " may be sent directly to 
market or may be kept in cold storage either chilled to ice 
temperature or hard frozen. In selecting fish see that the 

158 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 159 

flesh feels firm, that the eyes are bright and bulging, and that 
the gills are red and free from blubber. 

From most standpoints fish and shellfish are interchangeable 
with meat in the dietary. There is a general similarity in the 
chemical structure of the proteins, and the coefficients of diges- 
tibility of fish a/e approximately equal to those of meat. 

Many kinds of fish are preserved in large quantities by drying, 
salting, smoking, canning, or by combinations of these methods. 
For outlines of the preparation of salt codfish, canned salmon 
and sardines in oil see Sherman's Food Products, pages 230-236. 

Methods of cooking fish: 

boiling braising frying 

steaming baking " planking " 

broiling 

Technique of cooking fish. To prevent flesh falling apart, due to 
tendency of the connective tissue to dissolve, 

a. Wrap in cheesecloth when boiling. 

b. Coat with egg and crumbs when frying. 

c. Place on strips of buttered cheesecloth when baking. 
Cleaning fish. Rub off scales from tail to head with a sharp knife. 

Cut through the skin of the back and abdomen, loosen it at the tail 
and pull it off. Remove head, open abdomen and take out the in- 
ternal organs. Wash in cold, salt water. 

Boning fish. Slit the flesh down the back and separate flesh from 
side bones. Pull out the spine and attached bones. 

Fish in combination with other food : With potatoes as fishballs, 
with eggs as souffle, with white sauce as croquettes, creamed or 
scalloped, with celery as salad. 

Vegetables suitable for serving with fish as garnish are : 

potato balls or curls parsley cucumber 

Sauces for fish : 

drawn butter Bechamel egg 

sauce tartare olive cheese 

Hollandaise 



160 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Boiled Fish 

Thick pieces, or whole, small fish 
i tbsp. salt to 3 qts. water 

Wrap in cheesecloth, plunge into boiling water. Simmer 30-40 
minutes, or until tender. 



Broiled Fish 

Broil the flesh side first, then turn and broil other side. The 
length of time for cooking depends on the thickness of the fish. 
Season with butter, salt, pepper, and garnish with parsley. 



Steamed Fish 

Wipe fish with damp cloth. Wrap in cheesecloth and steam or 
boil until tender. Time varies with size and shape of fish. At end 
of 5 minutes, add i tbsp. of salt. A little vinegar may also be 
added to the water. 



Baked Stuffed Fish 

Wash fish and dry with cheesecloth. If not cleaned, remove in- 
ternal organs. Remove backbone by beginning at the tail and with 
a sharp knife push the flesh away from the bones. Wipe with damp 
cloth, sprinkle with salt, and stuff. Sew with coarse cotton, insert 
slices of salt pork at intervals on each side. Bake in hot oven, allow- 
ing 15 minutes to the pound with 15 minutes additional. Serve 
with Hollandaise Sauce. 



Stuffing for Fish 

Ingredients: 

2 c. bread crumbs i tsp. onion juice 

\ tsp. salt i tsp. chopped parsley 

\ tsp. white pepper i tsp. capers or chopped pickles 

cayenne \ c. melted butter 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 161 

Fish Cooked in Fat 

Season with salt and pepper, dip in flour, egg, and dried crumbs. 
Fry in deep fat. Drain on paper. 

Fried Smelts 

Clean smelts, leaving on heads and tails. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, dip in flour, egg, and crumbs, and fry 3-4 minutes in deep 
fat. Arrange on hot platter. Garnish with parsley and lemon. 
Serve with Sauce Tartare. 

Shad Roe 

Wash and cook in boiling, salted water 10 minutes. Drain and 
dry. Season. Broil or brown in butter. 

Turbans of Flounder 

Clean fish, remove skin and backbone. Cut each fillet in two 
pieces or if very large three pieces. Season with salt and pepper, 
roll and fasten with small skewers or toothpicks. Dip in crumbs, 
egg and crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Drain on brown paper and serve 
with Sauce Tartare. 

Planked Haddock 

Skin and bone a haddock, leaving meat in two fillets. Brown fillets 
separately. Remove to a plank and season with salt and pepper. 
Garnish with mashed potatoes, outlining the original shape of the 
fish. Bake until potatoes are well browned. Finish garnishing with 
parsley and slices of lemon covered with finely chopped parsley. 

FISH COMBINED WITH OTHER FOODS 

Fish Balls 

Ingredients : 

1 c. salt codfish i egg 

2 c. potatoes ^ tbsp. butter 

J tsp. pepper 



1 62 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Wash the fish in cold water and break into small pieces. Wash 
and pare the potatoes and cut into pieces. Cook the fish and potatoes 
together in boiling water until the potatoes are soft. Drain and 
shake over the fire until dry ; mash with a wire potato masher, add 
the beaten egg, butter and pepper, and beat until light. Take up 
the mixture by spoonfuls, mold slightly and slip into the hot fat. 
Fry until brown, or shape into round, flat cakes, dredge with flour 
and brown in butter. 

Scalloped Fish 

Ingredients : 

2 c. flaked fish 2 c. medium white sauce 

i c. buttered crumbs 

Creamed Codfish 

Reheat boiled codfish in medium white sauce. An egg may be 
added. Serve on toast. 

Fish Chowder 

Ingredients : 

5 Ib. haddock 4 c. cold water 

4 c. diced potatoes 2 tbsp. butter 

i onion 4 tbsp. flour 

\ c. diced salt pork 4 c. scalded milk 

salt, pepper, cayenne 10 buttered crackers 

Method: 

Remove head, skin, and bones and cut fish into fillets. Cover 
head, skin, and bones with cold water. Simmer 20 minutes, strain, 
and reserve liquid. Parboil potatoes 10 minutes. Cook onions in 
salt pork until yellow. Remove onion and salt pork if desired. 
Arrange fish and potatoes in layers, seasoning with salt and pepper. 
Cover with water in which bones were cooked and simmer until 
potatoes are tender. Combine mixtures and pour over buttered 
crackers which have been soaked in enough cold milk to moisten 
them. 



4 

FISH AND SHELLFISH 163 



FISH SAUCES 

Egg Sauce 

Ingredients : 

i pt. boiling water i tsp. salt 

\ c. butter i tbsp. lemon juice or vinegar 

cayenne 2 hard-cooked eggs 

Method: 

Prepare in the same way as white sauce. The eggs may be chopped 
or the whites sliced and the yolks pressed through a sieve and added 
to the sauce. 

Drawn Butter Sauce 

Ingredients : 

\ c. butter i| c. hot water 

3 tbsp. flour | tsp. salt 

| tsp. pepper 

Method: 

Melt | the butter, add flour and seasonings and gradually the hot 
water. Boil 5 minutes and add remaining butter in small pieces. 



Bechamel Sauce 

Ingredients : 

if c. white stock J c. butter 

i slice onion f c. flour 

i slice carrot i c. scalded milk 

i bay leaf f tsp. salt 

parsley tsp. pepper 

Method : 

Cook stock 20 minutes with onion, carrot, bay leaf, parsley ; strain. 
There should be i cupful. Melt the butter, add flour and gradually 
hot stock and milk. Season with salt and pepper. 



164 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Maitre d'Hdtel Butter 

Ingredients : 

1 c. butter \ tbsp. chopped parsley 
\ tsp. salt J tbsp. lemon juice 

| tsp. pepper 
Method: 

Put butter in a bowl and cream. Add salt, pepper, and parsley, 
then lemon juice very slowly. The heat of the meat or fish will 
dissolve the butter. 

Sauce Tartare 
To f c. mayonnaise dressing add \ tbsp. each, finely chopped. 

capers onions 

pickles parsley 

f shallot } may be omitted 

\ tsp. powdered tarragon J 

Hollandaise Sauce 

Ingredients : 

| c. butter | tsp. salt 

2 egg yolks ^ tsp. cayenne 
i\ tsp. lemon juice \ c. boiling water 

Method: 

Cream the butter and add yolks one at a time ; beat well. Add 
seasoning, then boiling water and cook over hot water, stirring con- 
stantly until mixture thickens. Remove from fire, add lemon juice 
and serve at once. 

Mock Hollandaise Sauce 

Ingredients : 

3 tbsp. butter i tsp. salt 
3 tbsp. flour -i lemon 
2 c. milk 2 eggs 

Method : 

Prepare white sauce. Pour over beaten eggs, stir until it thickens. 
Add lemon juice before serving. 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 



165 



FOOD VALUES 
Creamed Codfish on Toast 













g 






^ 


^ 






M 


H 
K 2 


55 


r/l 


o S 


iJ W 


H 





|2 


*i 


MATERIAL 


1 


O | 


H | 


< g 


> H 


S 


1 


3| 


B 9| 


|| 




M 


*^ O 


P4 c|) 


O 


go 


^H < 


CJ 


-^ o O 


o ^ O 






B 


' 


* 




9 


u 


$ 


u 


PnCJ 





















^ 


^ 




Bread . . . 


2 slices 


78 


7.2 


.92 


40.78 


2OO 


.008 


.022 


15 


.0006 


Fish . . . 


2 tbsp. 


14.6 


4 


.04 




17 


.009 


.003 


.09 


.0001 


Butter . . 


4 tbsp. 


15-7 


15 


13-34 




121 


.0119 


.004 


.004 




Butter . . 


2 tbsp. 


28 


.28 


23.8 




215 


.0212 


.006 


.008 




Flour . . . 


2 tbsp. 


14.1 


1.58 


.14 


10.56 


50 


.0015 


.004 


.025 


.0002 


Milk . . . 


I C. 


216.6 


7.14 


8.67 


18.83 


150 


.0225 


.358 


454 


.0005 


Total, 
cooked | 


2 slices 1 
bread 
| c. fishj 


333 


20.4 


46.91 


70.17 


753 


.0742 


.396 


731 


.0014 


loo-Calorie 1 
portion | 


slice 1 
bread 
c. fishj 


242.9 


2.7 


6.2 


9.33 


IOO 


.01 


.053 


.097 


.0002 



SHELLFISH 

Shellfish are divided into two classes: (a) mollusks, and 
(b) crustaceans. Clams, oysters, scallops, and mussels belong 
to the first class, and lobsters, crabs, shrimps, and crawfish 
belong to the second class. 

Oysters. Oysters are the most important of the shellfish 
as factors in the general food supply. The flavor depends 
on the locality in which they are grown. The smaller are 
sought for serving raw, and the medium and larger for cooking. 
They are in season from September to May and are much safer 
in the latter part of the winter. 1 The whole flesh of the oyster 

1 The danger of infection through eating oysters from polluted waters is dis- 
cussed in Prescott and Winslow's Elements of Water Bacteriology, and Sherman's 
Food Products. 



1 66 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

is edible, even the muscle by which it opens and shuts its shell 
being tender. 

Clams. Clams are of two kinds. They are known as hard 
and soft, or round and long, and in Rhode Island the hard, 
round clam bears the Indian name Quahaug, the soft-shell clam 
being the only " clam." The round clams are raked from the 
bottom of shallow waters and are used when young and small 
in place of raw oysters. The long clams lie buried in the mud 
of creeks and shores left exposed at low tide, and are dug out 
of the mud with hooks. Both kinds of clams have a tough 
portion that is softened in cooking and that is more or less 
indigestible. The long " neck " which protrudes from the 
shell should be discarded. Clams are always in season. They 
are cheap and are commonly used in soups and chowders. 

Scallops. Scallops as purchased consist solely of the round 
white muscle which operates the shell. The scallop is migra- 
tory and reaches the creeks and shores in autumn. 

Lobsters. The muscle of lobsters compares favorably with 
meat. When fresh, and served at a suitable time, lobsters are 
not indigestible. 

Crabs. Crabs, like lobsters, shed their shell annually. When 
the new shell is forming, they are called soft-shell crabs. They 
are found near the coast of the Southern and Middle States, 
and are usually high-priced. Crabs should be inspected accord- 
ing to the rules for lobsters. 

Steamed Clams 

For steaming, clams should be bought in the shell. Wash in 
several waters. Place in saucepan, allowing | c. water to i qt. 
clams. Cover closely and steam until clams partially open. Care 
should be taken not to overcook them. Serve with melted butter. 
A few drops of lemon juice may be added to the butter. 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 167 

Clam Broth 

Ingredients : 

2 doz. clams water 

2 tbsp. butter pepper 

salt 

Method: 

Wash and scrub clams and place in saucepan with cold water. 
Cook until shells are open. Evaporate liquid down to 2 c. Remove 
soft part from shells, add to liquid, add seasonings, reheat, and serve 
with a cracker or piece of toast. 

Clam Chowder I 

Ingredients : 

3 doz. clams i onion 

1 c. boiling water 4 tbsp. butter 

2 c. potato cubes 4 c. scalded milk 

4 slices bacon 8 crackers 

salt and pepper 
Method : 

Wash and steam clams. Remove meat and chop. Cook potatoes, 
bacon, onion, salt, pepper, and butter in clam juice until vegetables 
are soft, adding more water if needed. Add clams and simmer 3 
minutes. Add milk and crackers before serving. 



Clam Chowder II 

Ingredients : 



i^ doz. clams \ tsp. tabasco sauce 

i c. tomatoes ^ tsp. salt 

i tbsp. catsup | tsp. pepper 



} 4 slices bacon i tsp. parsley 



i cubed potato i onion 

1 slice toast diced \ sliced lemon 

2 tbsp. cracker crumbs 
Method : 

Strain liquor from clams, add to B with boiling water. Simmer 
until potatoes are tender, add A, boil 3 minutes. Add C. 



1 68 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Oyster Broth 

Ingredients : 

i c. oysters \ tsp. salt 

if c. milk pepper 

1 1 tbsp. water i tbsp. butter 

Method: 

Scald milk. Heat oysters in water until plump. Add milk and 
seasonings. 

Oyster Stew 

Ingredients : 

i pt. oysters i pt. thin white sauce 

Method: 

Heat the oysters in their own liquor or sufficient water until the 
edges curl. 
Add cooked oysters to white sauce just before serving. 



Oyster Cocktail 

Ingredients : 

i tsp. grated horseradish ' 2 tbsp. tomato catsup 

6-8 drops tabasco sauce j tsp. salt 

tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

Method: 

Serve in glasses or in halves of grapefruit. 



Fried Oysters 

Ingredients : 

2 doz. large oysters i c. grated crumbs 

i egg and i tbsp. water salt, pepper 

Method: 

Drain oysters, wash, dry, and season with salt and pepper. 
Crumb, egg and crumb oysters, and fry in deep fat. 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 169 

Pigs in Blankets or Oysters in Bacon 

Ingredients : 

1 doz. oysters 4 slices toast 

i doz. slices bacon 
Method: 

Drain oysters, wash, dry, and roll each in bacon. Fasten with 
skewer. Cook in hot omelet pan until slightly crisp and brown. 
Remove skewer and serve on toast. 

Oyster Fricassee 

Ingredients : 

j c. butter paprika 

2 tsp. salt pepper 

2 qts. oysters 

Method: 

Place butter, salt, and pepper in a saucepan, and when hot, add 
oysters. Cover and shake until oysters are plump. Drain and add 
cream to the liquid to make 2 c. 

Make sauce of the 2 c. liquid 2 tsp. lemon juice 

\ c. butter 2 eggs 

I c. flour 
Add oysters. Serve on toast. 

Lobsters 

Directions : 

Lobsters should be bought alive. Small ones, heavy for their size, 
are best. If they are bought after being cooked, the tail should 
spring back quickly when straightened, otherwise the lobster was 
dead before being cooked. 

Cook 15-30 minutes below boiling point. When done, place in 
cold water. If cooked too long, they become tough. 

Break off the claws, separate tail from body and body from shell. 
Save the coral. Crush the tail by pressing the sides together, then 
pull or cut it open on the under side and take out the meat in one 
piece. Remove the intestine which runs the entire length. Break 
off the tail from the body before picking the meat from the joints. 



1 70 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

The gills, the stomach, and the intestines are the only parts not eaten. 
The liver may or may not be eaten. Break the body in the middle 
lengthwise and pick the meat from the" joints. Pound the claws 
carefully so that the meat may be removed without being crushed. 
The meat should not be kept more than 18 hours after it is cooked. 
Season with salt and cayenne, pack in a covered jar, and place on 
ice. If French dressing is to be used, omit salt and cayenne from the 
recipe. 

If it is desired to save the tail for serving the salad, break it on the 
inside. 

Lobster Newburg 

Ingredients : 

2 c. lobster meat nutmeg 

2 tbsp. butter \ c. sherry 

tsp. salt 2 tbsp. brandy 

cayenne | c. thin cream 

3 egg yolks 
Method : 

Melt butter, add lobster meat, and cook 3 minutes. Add cream 
and egg yolks slightly beaten. Stir the mixture until thickened, over 
hot water. Add wine and serve. 



Devilled Crabs 

Ingredients : 

6 crabs \ tsp. mustard i tbsp. lemon juice 

2 tbsp. butter 2 drops tabasco sauce i tsp. parsley 

2 tbsp. flour \ tsp. salt \ tsp. Worcestershire sauce 

cayenne i| c. cream 

Method: 

Cook crabs in boiling water (salted) for 20 minutes. Place in cold 
water for a few minutes. Pick out the meat, being careful not to 
break the shell. Make a sauce of the remaining ingredients, season 
highly, and add crab meat to it. If the mixture is too stiff, add milk 
or cream to make the right consistency. Wash and scrub the upper 
shell and fill with the mixture. Cover with buttered crumbs and 
bake from 15-20 minutes, or until brown. 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 171 

Soft-shell Crabs 

Method: 

Lift each point of the back shell and remove the spongy substance 
found beneath it. Turn the crab on its back and remove the semi- 
circular piece of dark, soft shell called the " apron," and the spongy 
substance under it. Wash and dry. Proceed as for Fried Oysters. 

REFERENCES 
Fish 

ATWATER and BRYANT. The Composition of American Food Mate- 
rials. United States Department of Agriculture, Office of 
Experiment Stations, Bulletin 28 (Revised). 

GREEN. How to Cook Fish. 

GREEN. How to Cook Shellfish. 

LANGWORTHY. Fish as Food. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Farmers' Bulletin 85 (Revised 1907). 

MILNER. Digestibility of Fish and Poultry. Storrs (Conn.) Agri- 
cultural Experiment Station, Seventeenth Annual Report, 
pages 116-142 (1905). 

PRESCOTT and WINSLOW. Elements of Water Bacteriology. 

SHERMAN. Food Products. 

THOMPSON. Practical Dietetics. 

United States Bureau of Fisheries. Reports and Bulletins. 

WILEY. Foods and their Adulterations. 



CHAPTER XII 
FLOUR MIXTURES 

FLOUR mixtures are taken to mean food materials in which 
the basis is flour to which is added liquid, and a leaven ; sugar, 
butter, and various fruits or condiments may be added also. 
These mixtures are baked, fried, or steamed. The composition 
and nutritive value of a flour mixture naturally varies with the 
ingredients. No general statements need be attempted, but 
the student should work out the food values of as many of the 
products as time permits. See also A Laboratory Manual for 
Dietetics, Mrs. Mary S. Rose, and Bulletin 28, of the Orfice of 
Experiment Stations, United States Department of Agriculture. 

For the purposes of this book it seems best to take up the 
experiments on Flour Mixtures as a connected group, while a 
division is made in the recipes. 

FLOUR EXPERIMENTS 

143. To c. bread flour in a bowl, add just enough cold water 
to make a stiff dough. Knead with a wooden spoon or the fingers 
for 5 minutes. Cover the bowl with a cheesecloth and allow it 
to stand for 30 minutes so that the water may develop the full amount 
of gluten. 1 

After the dough has stood for 30 minutes, add sufficient cold water 
to cover the mixture and knead the mass gently but thoroughly in 
the bowl. 

1 At least four different kinds of protein can be isolated, but the most important 
for us to take account of are gliadin, and glutenin, the essential constituents of 
"gluten." 

172 



FLOUR MIXTURES 173 

a. Notice the milky color of the water as soon as the 
kneading begins. 

b. To what is the milky color due ? 

c. Determine by the iodine test, page 13. 

144. Continue kneading the mass, changing the water fre- 
quently until it no longer shows the milky color. 

The resultant mass is gluten. Notice the stringy, elastic character. 

Notice the color. 

Save for subsequent experiments. 

NOTE : Perhaps some of the class have made "gum" by chewing wheat grain 
and remember the sticky, elastic mass with sweetish taste which results. 

145. To small portions of the washed gluten, apply the following 

tests : 

a. Xanthoproteic, page 85. 

b. Iodine, page 13. 

c. Fehling-Benedict, page 13. 

146. Burn a small portion ; an odor as of burning wool or feathers 
is noticed. 

What material burns with such an odor ? 

147. Dry a small piece of gluten with a cheesecloth. 
Place it on an ungreased pan and bake it in a hot oven. 

The mass will expand, but, on removing from the oven, will contract. 
What causes it to change shape ? 
How can it expand and contract without cracking ? 
To which class of foodstuffs does gluten belong? What are its 
physical characteristics ? 

148. To give the class a more comprehensive idea of gluten, the 
instructor should contrast the following by preparing gluten or 
attempting to prepare gluten : 

a. pastry flour d. graham flour 

b. rye flour e. corn meal 

c. entire wheat 

NOTE : These experiments should demonstrate to the class the reasons for 
the thorough kneading of breads as contrasted with the slight 
beating of cake after the flour has been added. 



174 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Bread 

149. Make a microscopic examination of bread and pastry flour in : 

a. A drop of cold water. 

b. A drop of dilute iodine. 
Describe your observations. 

160. Do the same with rye and corn meal. 

1,51. Apply the iodine and Millon tests to small pieces of both 
the crust and the soft inner portions of a piece f bread. 

What do you notice as to the intensity of color and quickness of 
reaction ? 

152. a. Separate the crust and softer part. Put each, broken 
into small pieces, into a small beaker of cold water. Let stand 30 
minutes and then filter through a wet fluted filter. 

b. To the filtered extract from each beaker, apply the 
following tests : 

Iodine, page 13. 
Fehling-Benedict, page 13. 
Biuret, page 85. 
Xanthoproteic, page 85. 

c. After performing b, what are your conclusions? 

153. The instructor will be able to amplify the experiment by 
repeating 151 and 152 with portions of the following food materials : 

a. plain muffin c. soda cracker. 

b. plain cake. d. uneeda biscuit. 

Review the experiment with dextrin (page 61). 

Muffins 

154. Use recipe for plain muffins. Combine ingredients in the 
following manner and bake samples at the following temperatures : 1 

1 These temperatures are suggested by Miss Van Arsdale in the Bulletin, Some 
Attempts to Standardize Oven Temperatures for Cookery Processes. Note which 
range in temperature approximated a satisfactory result. Take the most satis- 
factory range and again bake muffins, using the selected temperatures as a. starting 
point from which to formulate a range in temperature which produces desirable 
results. What conditions influence the production of muffins and necessitate a 
graduation in temperature ? 



FLOUR MIXTURES 175 

250-350 F. 
350-400 F. 
400-450 F. 
450-550 F. 

In all the experiments with Flour Mixtures use the temperatures 
stated above as a starting point from which to make your own tem- 
peratures. 

a. Sugar, unbeaten egg, melted shortening, dry ingredients, 
liquid. Mix thoroughly. 

b. Sugar, egg beaten with Dover egg beater, dry ingre- 
dients, liquid, melted shortening, no extra mixing. 

c. Shortening creamed, yolk of egg, sugar, ^ liquid, dry 
ingredients, ^ liquid, stiffly beaten whites of eggs folded in. 

d. Dry ingredients, chop in shortening, sugar, liquid, un- 
beaten eggs. 

e. Compare results as to texture, flavor, crust, excess fat. 

155. Use recipe for Plain Muffins. Combine ingredients as above. 
Other ingredients being alike in each case, use for shortening the 

following : 

a. butter 

b. | butter, | lard 

c. lard 

d. oleomargarine 

e. crisco 
/. corn oil 

g. pure cottonseed oil 
h. cheese 

156. As in Expt. 155, except as follows : 
Use for liquid the following : 

a. sweet milk 

b. sour milk 

c. buttermilk 

d. condensed milk (diluted) 

e. milk powder (liquefied) 
/. | milk, \ water. 

s. water. 



1 76 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

157. As before, except as follows : 

Use for leaven the following (calculate the amount of leaven re- 
quired in each case) : 

a. soda and cream of tartar 

b. soda and sour milk 

c. alum baking powder 

d. phosphate baking powder 
e.. yeast 

In each Expt. (165-157) 

a. Compare the practical use of the variations in ingredients. 

b. Compare approximate differences in cost in variations. 

c. Conclusions. 

Biscuits 

158. Use recipe for Baking Powder Biscuits. Combine ingredi- 
ents in the following manner : 

a. Dry ingredients, shortening chopped in, liquid. Mix 
with a knife just enough to combine the ingredients. Turn the dough 
on a slightly floured board and roll it out, cut (see Expt. 159) , and bake. 

b. Dry ingredients, liquid, melted shortening stirred into 
mixture with a spoon. Turn it on a slightly floured board, roll, cut 
out (see Expt. 159), and bake. 

159. Divide biscuits cut out in Expt. 168 into three parts, ai, 02, 
03; bi, b2, 63. Brush ai and bi with a little milk before baking. 
Brush 0,2 and 62 with a little melted butter before baking. Bake 
03 and 63 as cut out. Compare results. 

160. Use recipe for Baking Powder Biscuits. 
Substitute for butter the following shortenings: 

a. % butter, | lard /. chicken fat 

b. oleomargarine g. olive oil 

c. lard h. cottonseed oil 

d. crisco i. corn oil 

e. beef drippings j. peanut oil 
Compare the results as to appearance, flavor, texture. 

161. Compute the cost of the products of Expt. 160 and compare 
with the rating as to quality. 



FLOUR MIXTURES 177 

Pastry 

162. Use recipe for plain paste. Combine ingredients in the 
following manner : 

a. Dry ingredients, shortening chopped in, ice water. 
Chill before rolling out. 

b. Dry ingredients and ice water made into a dough. Roll 
mixture on a pastry cloth. Fold and. roll the shortening in. 

c. Dry ingredients and melted shortening mixed as much 
as possible. Chill, chop mixture into uncombined flour. Add ice 
water. 

NOTE : An interesting observation can be made from the following experi- 
ment : 

Dry ingredients, measured and melted shortening, versus dry ingre- 
dients, melted and measured shortening. 

163. From the results of Expt. 162 decide upon the best method 
of combining ingredients and bake the following pies in this manner : 

Pastry shell : 

a. dredge with flour apple pie. 

b. brush over with white of egg custard pie. 

c. bake before filling cream pie. 

Sum up your observations concerning shortenings used in pastry, 
methods of combining, and baking of pies. 

Cake 

164. Note that the general rule for plain cake conforms to these 
proportions : 

j as much shortening as sugar. 

s as much liquid as flour. 

2 tsp. of baking powder to each cup of flour, but for every egg after 
the first, \ tsp. of baking powder is deducted. 

Combine the ingredients for plain cake in the following ways. 
Bake the products at the same temperature : 

a. Cream the butter, add sugar, whole eggs unbeaten, milk, 
sifted dry ingredients. 

b. Cream the butter, add unbeaten egg yolk, sugar, milk, 
sifted dry ingredients, beaten egg white. 

N ' ^ 



178 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

c. Egg yolk, sugar, milk, sifted dry ingredients, melted 
butter, beaten egg white. 

d. Cream the butter, add sugar, beaten egg yolk, milk and 
dry ingredients alternately, beaten egg whites. 

166. Repeat Expt. 164, substituting for butter the following : 

a. % butter, ^ crisco 

b. \ butter, \ lard 

c. oleomargarine 

d. crisco 

e. cottonseed oil 
/. corn oil 

g. chicken fat 

166. a. Use the rule for plain cake, and prepare three cakes, 
using for shortening, butter, oleo, crisco. 

b. Divide each rule into 5 parts A, B, C, D, E. Bake A 
in a slow oven ; record temperature. Bake B in a moderate oven ; 
record temperature. Bake C in a slow oven, increasing the tempera- 
ture ; record stages and changes in temperature. 

Bake D in a hot oven, reducing the temperature ; record tempera- 
tures and changes at each stage. Bake E in a cold oven, that is, 
light the burners when the cake is placed in the oven. Summarize 
results. 

Record the optimum method of combination of ingredients and 
oven temperature for each fat used in cake baking. 

167. a. Add chocolate to plain cake recipe. Determine the 
amount necessary. What change in the amount of flour is necessary ? 
Why? 

b. Add nuts to plain cake recipe. Compare with plain 
cake. What change in the recipe is necessary? Why? 

168. a. Cake without butter : compare the recipe for butter 
cake with that for sponge cake. Note the absence of butter in the 
latter and also the greater number of eggs. Review the experiments 
with eggs and recall the effect of various temperatures, in the cooking 
of eggs. Review the oven temperatures given by Miss Van Arsdale 



FLOUR MIXTURES 179 

in Some Attempts to Standardize Oven Temperatures, and compare with 
those determined in preceding experiments with butter cake. Se- 
lect the range in each instance which corresponds to " slow " and 
" moderate." Prepare one rule of sponge cake (use first recipe) and 
bake samples at those temperatures. Compare as to moisture, 
texture, and length of cooking. 

b. Repeat the above experiment, using any sponge cake 
recipe calling for a large number of eggs. In what way do the re- 
sults differ from those in the preceding one ? How do you account 
for these differences ? 

c. Repeat, using the first recipe for white sponge cake or 
angel cake. Compare the results with those in a and b. Account 
for the differences noted. What is a satisfactory range in oven tem- 
peratures for each type of cake? 

d. Having determined the oven temperature in the above 
experiments, prepare three sponge cakes, combining the ingredients 
in the following manner: 

Beat yolks with Dover egg beater. Add the sugar. 

1 Dover egg beater, 
silver fork, 
wire whisk. 

Fold in the whites before the flour. 
Fold in the whites after the flour. 
Stir in the whites after the flour. 

Bake and compare as to texture. Which method seems most 
satisfactory ? 

NOTE : This experiment can be successfully carried out if arranged so that 
samples of a, b, and c are baked together at the various tempera- 
tures. Comparison is thus made easy. 

Leavens Leavening Agents 

A leaven or leavening agent is something which will lighten 
a mixture. Flour mixtures are usually leavened by steam, by 
evolution of carbon dioxide, or by the expansion of inclosed 
and heated air. White of egg or cream may be said to be 
" leavened " when " whipped," in which case the leavening 



l8o LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

consists simply in the mechanical incorporation of air bubbles. 
In some bakeries (especially in England) dough is leavened by 
incorporating air under pressure, which when the pressure is 
released will expand even without application of heat. 

When leavening is to be accomplished by means of carbon 
dioxide the latter is usually produced either : 

(1) by yeast fermentation, producing carbon dioxide from 
a portion of the carbohydrate of the mixture ; 

(2) by interaction of sodium bicarbonate (" cooking soda ") 
with an acid substance (either free acid or acid salt) in the 
presence of moisture. 

Sour milk, buttermilk, vinegar, molasses, and some fruit juices 
contain free acids. 

Many fruit juices contain acid salts. 

Acid salts used as such to liberate carbon dioxide from sodium 
bicarbonate in other words used as the " acid constituent " 
of baking powders are chiefly : (a) acid potassium tartrate 
(cream of tartar), (b) acid phosphate, (c) some form of alum or 
aluminum sulphate ; hence the classification of baking powders 
in three main groups the " tartrate," the " phosphate," and 
the " alum " powders. 



EXPERIMENTS WITH LEAVENS AND LEAVENING 

AGENTS 
Egg, air, steam 

169. Measure the unbeaten white of an egg in a tablespoon. 
Beat with a Dover egg beater and measure in a tablespoon. Result ? 

170. Whip an unbeaten egg white with a wire whisk. What 
is the difference in volume? To what is this due? Notice the dif- 
ference in size of air spaces where Dover beater is used as compared 
with wire whisk. 

171. Perform 169 and 170 each with an egg yolk. 
Why is the increase in volume less noticeable ? 






FLOUR MIXTURES 181 

What is the marked difference in the composition of the egg yolk 
as compared with the egg white? 

172. a. Use the unbeaten egg to make popovers. 

b. Use the beaten egg to make sponge cake. 

c. Use the whipped egg to make Foamy Omelet. Compare 
texture of each product. Explain. 

d. Which egg white at time of using contains most water? 

Sodium bicarbonate 

173. Have ready for this and the succeeding experiments, the 
following : 

baking soda molasses 

cream of tartar chocolate 

lemon juice coffee 

vinegar hot water 

sour milk tomato 
limewater 

Test with litmus and record reaction of each. 

174. Carbon dioxide precipitates the lime in a solution of lime 
and water. This can be shown by breathing through a tube, one end 
of which is immersed in a beaker of limewater. The white, chalky 
deposit which soon appears on the bottom of the beaker is carbonate 
of lime from the lime of solution and the carbon dioxide of the breath. 

175. Arrange 9 test tubes with perforated corks or rubber stop- 
pers fitted with a bent tube to conduct gas from test tube into beaker 
of limewater. 

In each dry test tube put J tsp. dry baking soda. Arrange per- 
forated corks or stoppers with bent tube and have ready to adjust 
at once and conduct the gas given off into limewater (equal volume 
in each beaker). 

When all is ready, put i tbsp. of an acid or hot water respectively 
into a test tube until all have been used. Several phenomena will 
be observed. 

Note the evolution of gas, rapidity with which given off, compara- 
tive amount of carbonate of lime deposited. Conclude the corre- 
sponding amount of carbon dioxide given off. 

Tabulate and compare the results. 



182 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

176. If the facilities of the chemical laboratory are available, 
make the experiment with cream of tartar quantitatively, using pure 
substances. 

177. In the experiment with cream of tartar, it will be neces- 
sary to add water before the action will take place. 

What does this explain in regard to baking powder ? 
Why is corn starch or flour used in the manufacture of baking 
powder ? 

178. Test | tsp. of baking powder with i tbsp. hot water. As- 
suming that the baking powder is a mixture of sodium bicarbonate and 
an acid salt, can you determine the nature of the latter by chemical 
analysis ? 

179. Prepare baking powder according to the following proportion : 

| Ib. cream tartar 
j Ib. baking soda 
\ Ib. corn starch 
Sift six times 

Yeasts 

180. Fermentation of molasses. Into a common test tube or 
any glass vial, place a solution made by mixing one spoonful of 
molasses with ten spoonfuls of water. Rub up a little compressed 
yeast in water and put a few drops into the tube of molasses water. 
Set aside in a warm place and let it stand for about 24 hours. At 
the end of this time a vigorous fermentation will be seen. The liquid 
will have become somewhat cloudy, numerous bubbles can be seen 
rising through it, a froth forms on top, and a mass of sediment soon 
collects at he bottom. The bubbles are the carbon dioxide which 
is escaping into the air ; the sediment at the bottom is the growing 
mass of yeast, and the alcohol, which looks like water, is dissolved 
in the liquid and is, of course, invisible. 

181. Proof of the nature of the gas. Prepare two tubes. 
In tube A place molasses and water inoculated with several drops 
of yeast, as in the last experiment. Put the cork in place and insert 
the other end of the tube into a second tube underneath the surface 
of some clear limewater. Set aside in a warm place until vigorous 



FLOUR MIXTURES 183 

fermentation occurs. Note the bubbles of gas that arise from the fer- 
menting tube and bubble up through the limewater. The limewater 
soon becomes turbid, showing that the gas contains carbon dioxide. 

182. Rub a bit of yeast cake in a little water so as to make a 
slightly cloudy solution. Place a drop of the solution upon a micro- 
scope slide, cover with a cover glass, and examine first with a f-inch 
objective. Note that the water seems to be filled with very minute 
dots. Study with a higher power ( in. objective). Examine the 
yeast cells, noting the shape and comparative size. 

183. Growing yeast. With a glass rod, remove a drop of the 
sediment from growing yeast prepared as in Expt. 180. Place the 
drop oji a slide, cover with a cover glass, and study as in the previous 
case. Remove some of the yeast found floating on the surface and 
study in the same way. Note that the yeast cells are in groups. 
Make a sketch of several groups, showing buds of various sizes. Note 
any other differences you can see between this growing yeast and the 
compressed yeast cake. 

184. Effect of boiling. Prepare two test tubes of molasses and 
water and inoculate each with a drop of yeast. Plug with cotton. 
Place one test tube in water and boil for ten minutes, and then leave 
both test tubes side by side in a warm place for two days, and deter- 
mine whether the boiling has been sufficient to kill the yeast. 

185. Wild yeast. Prepare several test tubes of molasses and 
water as described and without plugging with cotton leave exposed 
in various places for two or three days. Determine by the appear- 
ance of bubbles whether fermentation occurs. If any change takes 
place in the liquids, examine with a microscope to determine whether 
yeasts have found entrance from the air or whether some other micro- 
organisms are growing in the solutions. Commonly, bacteria will be 
found more abundant than yeasts. 

186. Effect of age on yeast. Obtain an old sample of dried 
yeast cake. Prepare two tubes of molasses and water and inocu- 
late one with a small quantity of the old yeast cake and two others 
with a similar quantity of a fresh cake. Set aside in a warm place 
and determine in which fermentation starts sooner, and in which it 



184 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

is the more vigorous. Examine with a microscope after fermenta- 
tion begins, to see if either contains other organisms besides yeast. 

187. Action of yeast on bread. Mix up a little flour and water 
to about the consistency of dough for bread making and divide into 
three lots, A, B, and C. Into A and B place a little compressed 
yeast. A and B are then to be placed in a warm place for five or six 
hours, while C, without the yeast, is to be baked at once. After A 
and B have risen under the influence of the yeast, bake B at once in 
the oven, while A is to be thoroughly kneaded and then baked. 
Compare the results of A, B, and C, noticing the difference in the 
textures of the bread. 

188. Over raising. Mix another lot of dough with yeast in the 
same way and allow it to rise in a warm place for twelve hours or 
more. Test with litmus paper to see if it is acid. Bake and taste to 
see if it has become sour. 

189. Repeat Expt. 187, comparing cold milk, scalded milk, 
and water as the liquid to be used in the dough. Note which 
dough sours first. 

190. Bread raised by wild yeast. Put a small amount of salt 
in a little milk and then allow it to stand in a warm place until a 
froth appears. Mix it with flour to make a dough and set aside to 
rise. Does the dough rise as rapidly and as satisfactorily as when 
yeast is used ? Does the baked dough have <the same taste ? 

191. Kumiss. Into a quart of milk, put two tbsp. of granu- 
lated sugar and add about T ^ of a compressed yeast cake. Put in a 
warm place and leave for 24 hours. Cool and taste. This will be 
kumiss or fermented milk. Is it sour? 

192. Prepare equal weights of the following sugars : 

a. sucrose d. glucose 

b. maltose e. levulose 

c. lactose 

Dissolve each in small equal quantities of distilled water. (These 
solutions are for the next experiment.) Note any changes in appear- 
ance which may occur, and the rapidity with which each sugar 



FLOUR MIXTURES 185 

dissolves. Using a small measured fraction of each solution can you 
detect any difference in sweetness ? 

193. a. Prepare small, equal weights of compressed yeast cake 
and mix one portion with each sugar solution. Turn the mixture 
into fermentation tubes and allow them to stand in a uniformly warm 
place. 

b. Note in which tube fermentation begins and the rapidity 
with which it proceeds. 

c. Compare the volume of gas collected during a unit 
length of time. 

d. What do you conclude as to the relative fermentative 
qualities of the sugars used ? 

e. Of what significance is this? 

Flour Mixtures (Common designations) 

Biscuits Doughnuts 

Muffins Waffles 

Bread Griddlecakes 

Rolls Timbales 

Cookies Fillings and frostings 

Cakes Pastry 
Fillings for pie 

Classification of Flour Mixtures 

Batters beaten. 

Doughs mixed with knife or kneaded and rolled out. 

Proportion of Liquid to Flour 

Thin Batters Thick Batters 

I-I 1-2 

Griddlecakes Cake 

Waffles Suet puddings 

Fritters Emergency biscuit 

Popovers Muffins 

Dropped cookies 



i86 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Soft Dough Stiff Dough 

1-3 1-4 

Biscuit Pastry 

Crullers Rolled cookies 
Bread 
Rolls 

Flour Mixtures 

Essential Ingredients : Non-essential Ingredients : 

Flour Eggs 

Liquid Sweetening 

Leavening agent Shortening 

Salt Flavoring 

Function of: 

Flour : to give substance or body. 
Liquid : to hold dry ingredients together. 

Milk Eggs 

Water Coffee 

Molasses Cocoa 

Wine Brandy 

Leavening agent : to produce a gas which separates the particles, and 
expands by the heat applied in baking, thus raising the mixture. 

Leavening Agents 

Baking powder 

Yeast 

Baking soda and an acid 

Salt : to increase palatability. 
Shortening : to make brittle by enriching. 

Butter Suet 

Oleomargarine Drippings 

Lard Chicken fat 

Crisco Refined oils 



FLOUR MIXTURES 187 

Sweetening : 

Sugar Molasses 

Brown sugar Karo 

Glucose 

Eggs : to moisten 
to thicken 
to leaven 
to flavor 
Flavoring : to increase palatability. 

Spices Fruit juices 

Extracts Fruit rinds 

\ 

Oven Temperature 

Biscuit, " hot " l F., ! C. 

Bread, " hot " F., C. 

/ with butter " moderate "...'.. F., C. 

6 \ without butter " cool " F., C. 

Cookies, " moderate " F., C. 

Muffins, " moderate " F., C. 

Pastry, " hot " F., C. 

Popovers, " very hot to moderate " . . . . F., C. 

Rolls, " hot to moderate " F., C. 

REFERENCES 

Flour and Bread 

ATWATER, H. W. Bread and Bread Making. United States De- 
partment of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 389 (1910). 

BEVIER. Some Points in the Making and Judging of Bread. Uni- 
versity of Illinois, Bulletin, vol. 10 (March 17, 1913). 

Bread Lesson. Demonstration. Iowa State College, Agricultural 
Department, Short Course Class Notes, No. i. 

Bulletin on Idaho Bread Contest Clubs. Idaho State Department 
of Public Instruction. 

CALVIN. Essentials of Bread Making. Oregon Agricultural College, 
Domestic Science and Art Project, Circular, No. 6. 

1 Supply temperatures found by experiment (see pages 174-179). 



l88 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

GRANT. The Chemistry of Bread Making. 

HARCOURT and PURDY. Flour and Bread Making. Ontario Agri- 
cultural College, Department of Agriculture, Bulletin 180 (1910). 

HUNT. The Cereals in America. 

JAGO. The Technology of Bread Making. 

KOHMAN. Salt-raising Bread and Some Comparisons with Bread 
made with Yeast. Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chem- 
istry, vol. 4, pages 20-30, 100-106 (1912). 

LEACH. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

LECLERC and JACOBS. Graham Flour. United States Department 
of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 164 (1913). 

NEWANETAL. Some Experiments on the Relative Digestibility of 
White and Whole Meal Breads. Journal of Hygiene, vol. 12, 
pages 119-143 (1912). 

OSBORNE. The Proteins of the Wheat Kernel. 

SHAW and GAUMNITZ. California White Wheats. Berkeley, Cali- 
fornia, Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 212 (1911). 

SIMMONS. Book, of Bread. 

SNYDER. Studies in Bread and Breadmaking. Bulletins 67, 101, 
126 of the 6mce of Experiment Stations, United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture. 

SNYDER and WOODS. Wheat Flour and Bread. United States 
Department of Agriculture, Yearbook for 1903, pages 347-362. 

VAN ARSDALE. Some Attempts to Standardize Oven Temperatures 
for Cooking Processes. Teachers College Bulletin, Technical 
Series No. 8 (1914). 

WARDALL. Relation of Yeast to Flavor in Bread. Journal of Home 
Economics, vol. 2, pages 75-91 (1910). 

WILEY. Cereals and Cereal Products. Part 9 of Bulletin 13 of the 
Bureau of Chemistry, United States Department of Agriculture. 

WOODS and MERRILL. The Digestibility and Nutritive Value of 
Bread. Bulletins 85 and 143 of the Office of Experiment Sta- 
tions, United States Department of Agriculture. 



CHAPTER XIII 
BATTERS AND DOUGHS 

SELECT one of the following recipes for bread. Weigh each ingredient 
accurately (to the nearest gram). Weigh the finished product and 
calculate its food value and the weight and nutrients of the loo-calorie 
portion. Compare value and cost with those of cooked foods shown 
on pages 205 and 229. 

White Bread 

Quick Process 
Ingredients : 

3 c. flour i tsp. salt 

i c. milk or water i tbsp. butter 

i tsp. sugar i yeast cake 

Method: 

Scald the milk or boil the water, add to the salt, sugar, and butter 
and stir until dissolved. Cool until lukewarm, add yeast softened 
in | c. lukewarm water. Add one half the flour, beat until smooth. 
Cover and set in pan of warm water until doubled in bulk. Add 
the remainder of the flour and mix well. Put on a lightly floured 
board and knead until smooth and elastic. Mold into a loaf, place 
in a well-greased pan, cover, and let double its bulk. Bake in a hot 
oven 40-60 minutes. 

Slow Process 

As for quick process bread with these exceptions : 
Use only yeast cake. Add all the flour and knead once before 
setting to rise. Let rise overnight at room temperature instead of 
in a pan of warm water. In the morning knead, mold into loaves, and 
proceed as above. 

,189 



190 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Graham Bread 

Ingredients : 

% c. scalded milk | c. lukewarm water 

| c. water ^ c. white flour 

i tsp. salt graham or entire wheat flour 

1 tbsp. butter "to knead." The mixture 

2 tbsp. molasses should be easily handled 
f yeast cake but not hard and dry 

Nut Bread 

i c. chopped walnuts added after the first rising 

Gluten Bread 

Ingredients : 

\ c. scalded milk i tbsp. butter 

| c. water ^ yeast cake 

i tsp. salt | c. lukewarm water 

gluten flour " to knead " 

BREADS WITHOUT YEAST 

Boston Brown Bread Steamed 

Ingredients : 

i c. rye meal f tsp. soda 

i c. corn meal i tsp. salt 

1 c. graham flour f c. molasses 

2 c. sour milk or if c. sweet milk 
Method: 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Combine molasses and milk and 
add to first mixture. Fill greased molds f full of the mixture. Steam 
3-4 hours. 

Brown Bread I Baked 

Ingredients : 

f c. molasses 3! c. graham flour 

2 c. sour milk i^ tsp. baking powder 

3 eggs 2 tsp. baking soda 
2 tbsp. melted butter f tsp. salt 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 191 

Method: 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add slightly beaten eggs to the 
liquid ingredients and combine mixtures. Bake in a slow oven i| 
hours. The batter should be a little thicker than for butter cakes. 



Brown Bread II 

Ingredients : 

% c. sugar i tsp. salt 

\ c. molasses 2 c. graham flour 

2 c. sour milk i c. white flour 

2 tsp. soda i c. nut meats 

\ c. raisins 
Method: 

Let stand i hour in bread pan. Bake in a moderate oven 40-50 
minutes. 

Graham Bread 

Ingredients : 

2 c. buttermilk 2 c. white flour 

1 c. molasses i\ tsp. soda 

2 c. graham flour i tsp. salt 

Method: 

Let stand in bread pan 40 minutes. Bake in a moderate oven 45 
minutes. 



Nut Bread I 

Ingredients : 

2 eggs 4 c. white flour 

| c. sugar 7^ tsp. baking powder 

2 c. milk i tsp. salt 

i c. chopped walnut meats 

Method : 

Follow general directions for flour mixtures. Allow mixture 
to stand in the pan 20 minutes. Bake in a moderate oven 40-50 
minutes. 



192 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Nut Bread II 

Ingredients : 

f c. molasses 2 c. whole wheat flour 

f c. chopped walnuts i c. white flour 

i c. sour milk if tsp. soda 

1 1 tsp. salt 
Method: 

Follow general directions for flour mixtures. Bake in bread pan 
in a moderate oven 40-45 minutes. 

Nut Bread III 

Ingredients : 

i c. molasses i tsp. salt 

i c. water . 2 tsp. baking powder 

4 c. graham flour ^ tsp. soda 

1 c. white flour 2 c. chopped walnuts 

Method: 

Follow directions for flour mixtures. Bake in bread pans in a 
moderate oven 35-40 minutes. 

ROLLS 

Parker House Rolls 

Ingredients : 

2 c. scalded milk i tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. butter i yeast cake dissolved in 

2 tbsp. sugar | c. lukewarm water 

flour 
Method: 

Add butter, sugar, and salt to milk ; when lukewarm, add softened 
yeast cake and three cups of flour. Beat, cover, and let rise until 
light ; cut down, and add enough flour to knead (it will take about 
two and one half cups). Let rise again, toss on slightly floured 
board, knead, pat, and roll out to one third inch thickness. Shape 
with a biscuit cutter, first dipped in flour. 

Dip the handle of a case knife in flour, and with it make a crease 
through the middle of each piece ; brush over one half of each piece 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 193 

with melted butter, fold and press edges together. Place in greased 
pan, one inch apart, cover, let rise, and bake in hot oven 12 to 15 
minutes. As rolls rise they will part slightly and if hastened in 
rising are apt to lose their shape. 

NOTE : Parker House Rolls may be shaped by cutting or tearing off small 
pieces of dough and shaping round like a biscuit ; place in rows 
on floured board, cover and let rise 15 minutes. With the 
handle of large wooden spoon roll through center of each biscuit, 
brush edge of lower halves with melted butter, fold, press lightly, 
place in buttered pan one inch apart, cover, let rise and bake. 

Swedish Rolls 

Method: 

Prepare dough as for Parker House Rolls. When light, roll to 
\ inch thickness. Spread with melted butter, sprinkle with sugar, 
cinnamon, and currants, and roll as closely as possible. Cut into 
slices i inch thick, allow to become very light, glaze, and bake about 
20 minutes. 

Dorcas Rolls 

Ingredients : 

4 small potatoes 2 tbsp. sugar 

2 c. scalded milk 2 tsp. salt 

2 .tsp. butter f yeast cake 

\ c. lukewarm water 
Method : 

Add hot riced potatoes to the milk, butter, salt, and sugar, softened 
yeast, and flour to make a soft batter. Let rise and add flour enough 
to make a dough. Knead and allow to double in bulk, knead again 
and shape in balls. Place on a greased sheet ; let rise and bake 
15-20 minutes in a hot oven. 

Bread Sticks 

Ingredients : 

i c. milk i yeast cake softened in 

i c. butter \ c. lukewarm water 

i^ tbsp. sugar white of an egg 

| tsp. salt 3! c. flour 
o 



IQ4 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Prepare as bread and add the beaten egg after the yeast. When 
ready to shape, cut off small pieces of dough. Shape as small bis- 
cuits and roll on an unfloured board with the hands until 8 inches in 
length, keeping uniform in size and having the ends rounded. Bring 
the fingers close to, but not over, the ends of the sticks. Let rise and 
bake in a hot oven 8-10 minutes. 



Hot Cross Buns 

Ingredients : 

1 c. milk f tsp. cinnamon 
J c. sugar 3 c. flour 

2 tbsp. butter i egg. 

| tsp. salt I c. raisins 

^ yeast cake softened in | c. currants 

I c. lukewarm water 

Method: 

Dissolve sugar, salt, and butter in the scalded milk ; when luke- 
warm, add dissolved yeast cake, cinnamon, flour and egg well beaten ; 
when thoroughly mixed, add raisins, cover, and let rise overnight. 
In the morning shape in form of large biscuits, let rise, brush with 
beaten egg and bake 20 minutes ; cool, and make a cross on top of 
each with confectioners' frosting. 



Luncheon Rolls 

Ingredients : 

i c. milk i tsp. salt 

\ c. sugar ^ yeast cake 

i egg | c. lukewarm water 

| c. melted butter i c. flour 

Method: 

Prepare dough as for Parker House Rolls, adding the beaten egg 
before the flour. Shape in balls or oblongs, let rise and bake. 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 195 

Glaze for Rolls 

Glaze I Glaze II 

1 tsp. sugar yolk i egg 

2 tbsp. hot milk 2 tbsp. cold milk 

Apply before baking. Apply when half baked. 

SCORE CARD 

Bread 

REVISED SCORE CARD OF MISS BEVIER 1 

General appearance . . . . 20 

Size (5) 

Shape (5) 

Crust (10) 

Color 

Character 

Depth 

Flavor 35 

Odor 
Taste 

Lightness 15 

Texture 20 

Coarse fine 
Tough tender 
Moist dry 
Elastic or not 

Color 5 

Grain Distribution of gas 5 

100 

1 University of Illinois Bulletin, vol. 10, No. 25. (March, 1913.) 



196 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

SCORE CARD 

Raised Biscuits 

General appearance 20 

Size (5) 

Shape (5) 

Crust (10) 

Color 
Character 
Depth 

Flavor . 35 

Taste 
Odor 

Lightness 15 

Crumb 30 

Texture (20) 

Color (5) 

Grain (5) 

100 

Baking Powder Biscuits 
General Rules. 

Sift flour before measuring. Sift again with the baking powder 
and salt. 

Cut in the fat with two knives. Butter, lard, crisco, drippings, or 
chicken fat may be used. Half butter and half lard is a good com- 
bination. 

Add the liquid quickly. Toss and roll lightly on a floured board 
to | inch in thickness. Cut, moisten tops with milk, and bake 1 2-1 5 
minutes in a hot oven. 

Wheat Biscuits Graham or Entire Wheat Biscuits 

Ingredients : Ingredients : 

2 c. flour i c. graham flour 

4 tsp. baking powder i c. flour 

tsp. salt 5 tsp. baking powder 

2 tbsp. fat tsp. salt 

| c. milk 2 tbsp. fat 

f-i c. milk 
2 tbsp. sugar 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



I 97 



Cheese Biscuits 

Ingredients : 

2 c. flour 

4 tsp. baking powder 

tsp. salt 

i tbsp. fat 

f c. milk 

c. grated cheese 



Corn Meal Biscuit 
Same ingredients as Wheat Bis- 
cuit, substituting corn meal for 
^ the flour. After cutting, turn 
over as for Parker House Rolls. 



Emergency Biscuit 

Ingredients : 

i c. milk 
2j c. flour 

4 tsp. baking powder 
4 tbsp. shortening 
| tsp. salt 

Mix as for baking powder bis- 
cuits but drop by spoonfuls on a 
greased pan. 



Ingredients : 

i c. bran 

i c. entire wheat flour 

x c. molasses 



Bran Biscuit 



Fruit Biscuit 
Shape as Swedish Rolls, 
fore rolling spread with 
\ c. raisins 
\ tsp. cinnamon 
2 tbsp. sugar 



Be- 



tsp. salt 



i egg 

i c. milk 

\ tsp. baking soda 



SCORE CARD 



Baking Powder Biscuits 
General appearance 20 

Size (5) 

Shape (5) 

Crust (10) 

Flavor 40 

Lightness 10 

Texture 20 

Coarse fine 

Tough tender 

Moist dry 

Color 5 

Grain 5 

100 



198 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



FOOD VALUES 
Baking Powder Biscuit 





1 


|| 


g M g 


. 


Sa 






pi. 


ii s 


M 


MATERIAL 


t/3 


3 rt 


8 


< g 






o 


^ e n3 


S * d 


O jf 




M 







o 


go 


H S 




5 r 


1^ 


-0 












u 




$ 


** 






Flour . . . 


2 C. 


222.4 


24.9 


2.2 


166.5 


786 


.018 


.055 


393 


.0031 


Salt . . . 


|tsp. 




















Baking powder 


3 tsp. 


8 










.006 




i 




Butter . . . 


i|tbsp. 


19 


.19 


16.57 




150 


.015 


.005 


.006 




Milk . . . 


I C. 


202.8 


6.68 


8.12 


9-79 


140 


.021 


.324 


427 


.0004 


Total, cooked < 


1 2 bis- 
cuits 


313 


3L78 


26.89 


176.31 


1076 


.06 


.384 


.826 l 


0035 


loo-Calorie 


i bis- 




















Portion . . 


cuit 


29.08 


2.9 


2.49 


15 


IOO 


.005 


034 


074 1 


.0003 



GRIDDLECAKES AND WAFFLES 
(For General Method see below) 



Griddlecakes 
Sweet Milk 

Ingredients : 

1 c. flour 

2 tsp. baking powder 
| tsp. salt 

i tbsp. melted butter 

1 egg 

f c. milk 

Sour Milk 

Ingredients : 

2\ c. flour 
\ tsp. salt 

2 c. sour milk 
ij tsp. soda 



Waffles 
Sweet Milk 

Ingredients : 
if c. flour 

3 tsp. baking powder 
\ tsp. salt 

1 tbsp. melted butter 

2 eggs 

i c. milk 

Sour Milk 
Ingredients : 
1 1 c. flour 
\ tsp. soda 
\ tsp. salt 
i c. sour milk 



2 eggs 

2 tbsp. melted butter 

1 If a phosphate baking powder be used, the phosphorus content of the product 
will of course be much higher than is here shown. 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 199 

Corn Meal Corn Meal 

Ingredients : Ingredients : 

i c. corn meal \ c. corn meal 

i c. flour ij c. boiling water 

4 tsp. baking powder i tsp. salt 

1 tsp. salt i c. milk 

4 tbsp. sugar 2 tbsp. sugar 

2 eggs 2 tbsp. melted butter 
i qt. scalded milk 2 c. flour 

Cook meal and milk 5 minutes 3 tsp. baking powder 

in a double boiler. 2 eggs 

Cook meal and water 20 
minutes in a double boiler. 

General Method 

General Rules for Mixing. 

Sift flour, and sift with salt, sugar, and baking powder. Separate 
eggs, beat yolks thoroughly, and add to the milk. Add the liquids to 
the dry ingredients. Add the melted butter and fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites of eggs. 

General Rules for Frying. 

Grease irons carefully with lard, crisco, or salt pork. Fry mix- 
ture as soon as mixed. Serve immediately with butter and sirup or 
butter and powdered sugar. 

Griddlecakes. 

Drop mixture by spoonfuls on a hot griddle. When puffed, full 
of bubbles and cooked on edges, turn and brown the other side. 

Waffles. 

Put a tbsp. of mixture in each compartment near center of iron, 
cover, and mixture will spread to fill iron. Turn arid brown other side. 

Swedish Timbale Cases 

Ingredients : 

f c. flour \ c. milk 

\ tsp. salt i egg 

\ tsp. olive oil 



200 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Sift flour and salt. Add slightly beaten egg and the milk. Beat 
until smooth. Add the olive oil. 

To make Timbale Cases 

Plain and fluted irons of various shapes mounted on a long handle 
are used for shaping Swedish Timbale Cases. 

To use : dip the iron into the hot fat, let stand two or three minutes, 
then drain and dip into the batter held in measuring cup to 
half an inch of the top of iron, return at once to the fat and hold 
there until the batter is crisp and lightly colored, then remove from 
the iron and turn upside down on soft paper to drain. If, on dipping 
the iron into the batter, the batter does not cling to it, the iron has 
not been heated enough. If the fat sizzles considerably and the 
case spreads out and drops from the iron, the mold is too hot. If the 
iron is lowered too far into the batter, the case will spread over the 
top of the iron and be troublesome to remove. The finished cases 
should be very crisp. A small, deep pan of fat gives best results. 

Fritters 

Ingredients : 

1 c. flour rind i lemon 

2 tbsp. sugar 2 eggs 

\ tsp. salt \ c. milk 

Method : 

Same as Muffins (page 202). 

Apple Fritters 

Method: 

Pare apples and cut in eighths, or pare, core, and cut in |-inch slices. 
Sprinkle with sugar, lemon juice, cinnamon, or nutmeg. Dip in 
batter and fry in deep fat. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve 
at once. 

Banana Fritters 

Method: 

Remove skins from bananas. Scrape. Cut in halves lengthwise 
and then cut in 2 pieces crosswise or in i-inch pieces. Sprinkle 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 2OI 

with powdered sugar and lemon juice and let stand half an hour. 
Drain. Dip in batter and fry in deep fat. Sprinkle with powdered 
sugar or serve with Grape or Currant Jelly. 



Pineapple Fritters 

Method: 

Drain sirup from canned pineapple. Cut in pieces ; dip in batter 
and fry in deep fat. 

Doughnuts I 

Ingredients : 

2 tsp. butter i c. flour 

I c. sugar \ tsp. salt 

1 egg f tsp. baking powder 

2 tbsp. milk | tsp. cinnamon 



Doughnuts II 

3 eggs 5 c. flour 

i c. sugar 2 tsp. cream of tartar 

i c. milk i tsp. soda 

\ tsp. nutmeg or mace i tsp. salt 

Method: 

Same as for cookies. The dough should be as soft as can be handled. 
Roll to i inch in thickness, cut in rings and fry in hot fat until golden 
brown. Turn often in the fat. Drain, cool, and sugar by shaking in 
a paper bag which contains a small amount of powdered sugar. 



Comforts 

Ingredients : 

1 c. milk i c. sugar 

2 eggs 2\ c. flour 

i c. raisins 3 tsp. baking powder 

i tsp. salt 
Method: 

Same as doughnuts. The mixture is a batter. Drop from spoon 
into hot fat ; fry a light brown. Drain and sugar. 



202 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Muffins 
General Rules : 

Sift flour before measuring. Sift again with baking powder, salt, 
and sugar. Beat eggs slightly, add the milk and pour this mixture 
gradually into the dry ingredients. Add the melted butter. Bake 
in greased muffin tin in a moderate oven 20-25 minutes. 



One-egg Muffins 

Ingredients : 

2 c. flour 2 tbsp. sugar 

4 tsp. baking powder i c. milk 

| tsp. salt 2 tbsp. melted butter 



Wheat Muffins 

Ingredients : 

2 c. flour i c. milk 

2 tsp. baking powder 2 tbsp. melted butter 

| tsp. salt 2 eggs 



Entire Wheat or Graham Muffins 

Ingredients : 

i c. graham flour i tbsp. sugar 

i c. flour . i egg 

3 tsp. baking powder i c. milk 

i tsp. salt 2 tbsp. melted butter 



Corn Meal Muffins 

Ingredients : 

i c. flour ^ tsp. salt 

1 c. corn meal i egg 

2 tbsp. sugar i c. milk 

4 tsp. baking powder 2 tbsp. melted butter 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 203 

Berkshire Muffins 

Ingredients : 

\ c. corn meal 1 Let stand 2 tbsp. sugar 

f c. scalded milk / 5 minutes \ tsp. salt 

\ c. cooked rice i egg 

\ c. flour 3 tsp. baking powder 2 tbsp. melted butter 

Bran Muffins 

Ingredients : 

2 c. bran i tsp. soda 3 tbsp. molasses 

i c. flour \ c. butter i c. sour milk 

Method: 
Rub butter into the dry ingredients. Add the liquids. Bake in 

a hot oven. 

Bran Muffins with Corn 

Ingredients : 

i c. corn meal i egg 

i c. white flour i| c. milk 

1 c. bran 2 tbsp. molasses 

2 tbsp. melted butter i tsp. salt 
1 1 tsp. soda 



, or i\ tsp. baking powder 
3 tsp. cream tartar J 

Rice Muffins 

Ingredients : 

3 c. flour i^ c. milk 

1 c. cooked rice i egg 

2 tbsp. baking powder 3 tbsp. melted butter 

3 tbsp. sugar f tsp. salt 
Combine the rice and milk. 

Hominy Sticks 

Ingredients : 

i c. corn meal \ c. hot cooked hominy or rice 

f c. flour \ c. melted butter 

3 tsp. baking powder i c. milk 

| tsp. salt i egg 

Method : 

Bake in Bread Stick pans. 



204 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Blueberry Muffins 

Ingredients : 

c. butter 2 c. flour 

j c. sugar i tsp. baking powder 

i egg i c. blueberries 

f c. milk 
Method: 

Fold in the blueberries last. 

Southern Pone 

Ingredients : 

1 c. corn meal 2 eggs 

2 c. milk 3 tbsp. butter 

1 tsp. salt i tsp. baking powder 

Method: 

Scald milk and add gradually the meal, salt, and butter. Cool 
slightly and add eggs, well beaten, and the baking powder. Turn 
into a buttered, earthen dish and bake in a moderate oven 35 min- 
utes. Cut in pie r shaped pieces for serving. 

Southern Spoon Corn Bread 

Ingredients : 

2 c. white corn meal yolks 2 eggs 
2\ c. boiling water whites 2 eggs 

1 1 tbsp. melted butter i| c. buttermilk 

i \ tsp. salt i tsp. baking soda 

Method: 

Add meal gradually to the boiling water, and let cool. Add butter, 
salt, egg yolks slightly beaten, and buttermilk mixed with soda. 
Beat 2 minutes and fold in whites of eggs beaten until stiff. Turn 
into a buttered earthen dish and bake hi hot oven 40 minutes. Serve 
at breakfast. Eat with spoon. 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



205 



SCORE CARD 

Muffins 



General Appearance 
Size (5) 

Shape (10) 

Crust (10) 

Color 
Character 
Depth 

Flavor 

Taste 
Odor 

Texture . . . 
Lightness (10) 
Tenderness (10) 
Grain (10) 

Color 



35 



10 
100 



FOOD VALUES 
Muffins 













< 






O 


|! 








M 2 




en 














MATERIAL 


i 


o S 


H 1 


H g 


w 2 


II 


1 


ill 


s ^ 


II 




W 

a 


go 





fe o 


O 




CJ 




w-^ 














u 




$ 


^ 


^ 




Flour . 


I C. 


III. 2 


12.45 


I. II 


83.28 


393 


.0098 


.027 


.196 


.0015 


Sugar . . . 


i tsp. 


4.8 






4.8 


19 


.0007 








Butter . . . 


i tbsp. 


14 


.14 


11.9 




!08 


.0106 


.003 


.004 




Milk ... 


\ c. 


122 


4.02 


4.88 


6.1 


84 


.OI I 2 


193 


.255 


.OOO2 


Baking powder 


2 tSp. 


7-7 










.003 




1 




Egg. . . . 


I 


45-3 


6.07 


4-75 




67 


03 


.040 


.161 


.OOI2 


Total, cooked 


6 


242.2 


22.68 


22.64 


94.18 


671 


.0653 


.264 


.615 1 


.OO29 


i oo- Calorie 






















Portion . 


i 


35.o8 


3.37 


3.37 


14.04 


100 


.009 


.036 


.086 ! 


.OOO4 



See footnote, p. 198. 



206 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Popovers 

Ingredients : 

i c. flour | c. milk 

| tsp. salt 1-2 eggs 

\ tsp. melted butter (may be omitted) 
Method: 

Mix salt and flour, sift into bowl. Make an indentation in flour 
and drop in the unbeaten egg. Add the milk gradually, stirring in 
widening circles from the middle. If a little lumpy, beat for a minute 
with a Dover egg beater. Turn into ungreased custard cups or hot 
greased gem pans. Bake in a hot oven. Have the oven very hot for 
the first fifteen minutes, then reduce temperature and continue baking 
30 to 35 minutes longer. 



Graham Popovers 

Ingredients : 

| c. entire wheat flour c. milk 

c. flour i egg 

i tsp. salt I tsp. melted butter 

Prepare and bake as described under Popovers. 



Cream Puffs I 

Ingredients : 

% c. butter 4 eggs 

i c. boiling water i c. pastry flour 

Method: 

Put butter and water in saucepan and heat to boiling point, add 
flour all at once and beat vigorously. Remove from fire as soon as 
mixed, and add unbeaten eggs one at a time, beating until thoroughly 
mixed between the addition of eggs. Drop by spoonfuls on a buttered 
sheet i \ inches apart, shaping as nearly circular as possible, having 
mixture slightly piled in center. Bake 30 minutes in a moderate 
oven. With a sharp knife make in each an incision large enough to 
admit cream filling. 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 207 

Cream Puffs II 

Ingredients : 

\ c. butter (scant) | c. flour 

\ c. boiling water 2 eggs 

fruit preserve or marmalade 

Put butter in small saucepan and pour on water. When water 
again reaches boiling point add flour all at once and stir until mixture 
leaves sides of saucepan, cleaving to spoon. Remove from fire and 
add eggs unbeaten, one at a time, beating mixture between addition 
of eggs. Drop by spoonfuls into hot fat and fry until well puffed 
and brown. Drain. Make an opening and fill with jelly, preserve, 
or marmalade. Sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

Eclairs 

Shape cream puff mixture 4^ inches long and i inch wide by forcing 
through a pastry bag and tube. Bake 25 minutes in a moderate 
oven. Fill with vanilla, coffee, or chocolate cream filling. Frost 
with chocolate frosting. 

Cream Filling 

Ingredients : 

| c. sugar 2 c. scalded milk, chocolate, 

\ c. flour or coffee 

\ tsp. salt i tsp. vanilla or 

2 eggs \ tsp. lemon juice 

Method: 

Mix dry ingredients in double boiler and pour the liquid in 

gradually. Cook the mixture 10 minutes. Add the eggs slightly 

beaten and cook 2 minutes. Cool and flavor. 

FLOUR PASTES 
Macaroni; Spaghetti; Noodles 

Boiled Macaroni or Spaghetti 

Ingredients : 

f c. macaroni or spaghetti broken in pieces 2 qts. boiling water 
i c. cream i tbsp. salt 



208 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Cook macaroni or spaghetti in boiling salted water 20 minutes, or 
until soft ; drain in strainer, pour over it cold water to prevent pieces 
from adhering ; add cream, reheat, and season with salt. 

Noodles 

Ingredients : 

i egg \ tsp; salt 

2 c. flour 
Method: ' 

Beat egg slightly, add salt, and flour enough to make a very stiff 
dough ; knead on a slightly floured board, and roll as thin as possible, 
which may be as thin as paper. Cover with towel and set aside for 
20 minutes ; then cut in fancy shapes using sharp knife or French 
vegetable cutter ; or the thin sheet may be rolled like a jelly roll, 
cut in thin slices and pieces unrolled. 

When eggs are expensive, one tablespoon of water may be beaten 
with each egg. 

When noodles are perfectly dry, put them into a glass jar or paste- 
board box. They will keep indefinitely. 

Baked Macaroni with Cheese 

Put a layer of boiled macaroni in buttered baking dish, sprinkle 
with grated cheese ; reheat, pour over white sauce, cover with buttered 
crumbs, and bake until crumbs are brown. 

Macaroni, Italian Style 

Ingredients : 

1 c. macaroni i| c. scalded milk 

2 tbsp. butter f c. grated cheese 
2 tbsp. flour salt and paprika 

| c. finely chopped cold boiled ham 
Method: 

Break macaroni in one-inch pieces and cook in boiling, salted 
water, drain, and reheat in sauce made of butter, flour, and milk to 
which is added cheese. As soon as cheese is melted, season with salt 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 209 

and paprika and turn on to a serving dish. Sprinkle with ham and 
garnish with parsley. 

Macaroni with Cheese and Tomato Sauce 

Ingredients : 

i c. boiled macaroni 2 c. tomato sauce 

c. grated cheese seasonings 

Method: 

Arrange the macaroni in a buttered baking dish, pour over this the 
tomato sauce and cheese, cover with buttered crumbs and heat in a 
moderate oven until the crumbs are brown. 

Grated cheese may be sprinkled on the top instead of buttered 
crumbs. 

Spaghetti Loaf 

Ingredients : 

i c. scalded cream or milk i c. grated cheese 

i c. bread crumbs i tbsp. onion juice 

i c. cooked spaghetti i tbsp. chopped parsley 

3 eggs i tbsp. green pepper 

i tbsp. red pepper or pimento 
Method: 

Scald cream, add the bread crumbs, cooked spaghetti and cheese, 
and eggs slightly beaten. Chop green and red peppers and add 
to first mixture. Pour into a buttered bread pan, place in hot water, 
and bake in a slow oven until firm and slightly browned. Turn on 
a platter and surround with tomato sauce. 

COOKIES 

CLASSIFICATION 

Dropped Rolled Spread 

Peanut Sugar Brownies 

Boston Chocolate Fairy gingerbread 

Oatmeal I Molasses Rolled wafers 

Oatmeal II Orange circles Chocolate chips 

Sponge drops Hermits 



210 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Margarets (fancy meringue pans) Date meringues 

Chocolate wafers Vanilla wafers 

Dropped: 

Thick batters. Drop from tsp. on well-greased sheets i inch apart. 
Sponge Cookies may be put together with marshmallows or boiled 
frosting. 

Rolled: 

Stiff doughs. Chill before rolling out. Use fancy cutters. Gar- 
nish with raisins, currants, sugar, spice, candied cherries, angelica, 
orange peel. 

Filled cookies. Two cookies may be put together with fruit and 
nut filling before baking. 

Two colors. A sugar cooky cut in fancy shape may be placed on 
a round chocolate cooky before baking. 

Spread: 

Thick batters. Spread with spatula on well-greased Russian sheets 
or on the back of a dripping pan. Cut in squares or oblongs or cut 
and roll while hot. 

Nut wafers. Sprinkle chopped nuts on mixture before baking. 



General Rules for Mixing Cookies 

Eggs should not be separated; otherwise proceed as for cake. 
Bake one cooky to see if mixture is of proper consistency. 



Dropped Cookies 

Chocolate Wafers 

Ingredients : 

4 tbsp. butter f c. flour 

8 tbsp. sugar | tsp. salt 

i egg | tsp. vanilla 

i oz. chocolate \ c. nuts 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



211 



Oatmeal I 



Ingredients : 

4 tbsp. butter 
3 tbsp. lard 

i c. sugar 
i egg 

5 tbsp. milk 

if c. rolled oats 
| c. raisins 



| c. nuts 
i^ c. flour 
tsp. salt 
tsp. soda 
f tsp. cinnamon 
tsp. cloves 
tsp. allspice 



Ingredients : 

i tbsp. butter 
i c. sugar 
| tsp. salt 



Oatmeal II 

2 c. rolled oats 
2 eggs 

i tsp. baking powder, 
i tsp. vanilla 



Ingredients : 

i c. butter 

i^ c. sugar 

3 eggs 

i tsp. soda 

i tbsp. cold water 

3! c. flour 



Boston Cookies 



tsp. salt 

tsp. cinnamon 

c. chopped nuts 

(hickory or English walnuts) 

c. currants 

c. raisins, seeded (or seedless), 

chopped 






Ingredients : 



Margarets 



c. butter 

c. powdered sugar 

c. molasses 



i egg well beaten 

| c. flour 

i c. pecan meats chopped 



Garnish top of each with half a pecan. 



212 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Drop Molasses Cookies 

Ingredients : 

c. molasses i c. sour cream or 

c. sugar f c. butter 

egg i tsp. each: 

tsp. soda ginger 

tsp. baking powder cinnamon 

c. boiling water f tsp. salt 

about 3 c. flour 
Method: 

Follow general directions for flour mixtures. Spread the mixture 
in a well-greased dripping pan and bake in a moderate oven 10-20 
minutes. Cut in squares and remove with spatula to a rack or cloth 
to cool. 

Peanut Cookies 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. butter c. flour 

I c. sugar tsp. salt 

i egg 2 tbsp. milk 

i tsp. baking powder \ tsp. lemon juice 

\ c. chopped nuts 

Meringues 

Ingredients : 

whites 4 eggs i \ c. powdered sugar or 

\ tsp. vanilla i c. granulated sugar 

Beat whites until stiff, add gradually the sugar and continue beat- 
ing until mixture will hold shape, and add flavoring. Shape with 
spoon or pastry bag and tube on wet board covered with letter paper 
or on greased paper. Bake 30 minutes in a very slow oven. Re- 
move from paper when cold. 

Date Meringues 

Ingredients : 

f Ib. dates whites 4 eggs 

\ Ib. almonds i c. sugar 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



213 



Method: 

Wash and stone dates. Blanch almonds. Mix with dates and 
chop finely. Beat whites of eggs until stiff. Add sugar gradually 
and continue beating. Fold in date mixture. Drop by spoonfuls 
on greased paper. Bake in a " moderate " oven until delicately 
brown (recording the temperature). Remove at once from paper. 



Ingredients : 

whites 3 eggs 

^ c. powdered sugar 

yolks 2 eggs 



Sponge Drops 



c. flour 
| tsp. salt 
\ tsp. vanilla 



Ingredients : 

3 tbsp. butter 
f c. sugar 
rind i orange 



Rolled Cookies 
Orange Circles 



if c. flour 

salt 

juice i orange 



Ingredients : 

i c. butter 
i c. sugar 
i c. molasses 



Ginger Snaps 



4 c. flour 
i tsp. soda 
i tbsp. ginger 



egg 



Ingredients : 

% c. butter 
c. boiling water 
c. molasses 
i tsp. soda 



Molasses 



flour 



| tsp. salt 
i tbsp. ginger 
i tsp. cinnamon 
| c. sugar 



214 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 

\ c. butter 
i c. sugar 
i egg 
c. milk 



Sugar Cookies 



2j c. flour 

2 tsp. baking powder 

\ tsp. salt 

| tsp. vanilla 



Vanilla Wafers 



Ingredients : 

\ c. butter and lard in equal 

proportions 
i c. sugar 
i egg 
\ c. milk 



Ingredients : 

\ c. butter 
i c. sugar 
i tbsp. milk 



2 c. flour 

2 tsp. baking powder 

\ tsp. salt 

2 tsp. vanilla 



Thin Cookies 



2 tsp. baking powder 

flour 

2 eggs 



Ingredients : 

\ c. butter 
i c. sugar 
i egg 
c. milk 



Chocolate Cookies 

i\ c. flour 

2 tsp. baking powder 
\ tsp. salt 
\ tsp. vanilla 
2 oz. chocolate 



Ingredients : 

f c. butter 

1 c. brown sugar 

2 eggs 

f tsp. soda 

i tbsp. hot water 



Hermits 



i\ c. flour 

| tsp. salt 

i tsp. cinnamon 

\ tsp. each clove, mace, nutmeg 



i c. raisins 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 215 

Spread Cookies 

Chocolate Chips 

Ingredients : 

\ c. butter 4 tbsp. melted chocolate 

1 c. sugar i tsp. vanilla 

2 eggs i c. flour 



Chocolate Brownies 

Ingredients : 

i c. sugar f tsp. vanilla 

\ c. melted butter c. flour 

1 egg unbeaten \ c. walnut meats cut in pieces 

2 oz. chocolate melted 

Method: 

Mix ingredients in order given. Line a seven-inch square with 
paraffin paper. Spread mixture evenly in pan and bake in a slow 
oven (recording the temperature). As soon as taken from oven 
turn from pan, remove paper, and cut in strips. 



Nut Wafers 

Ingredients : 

\ c. butter (chicken fat may be 2 tbsp. milk 

used) i tsp. salt 

f c. sugar i tsp. baking powder 

i egg i tsp. vanilla 

1 1 c. flour \ c. nut meats (chopped) 



Fairy Gingerbread 

Ingredients : 

| c. butter \ c. milk 

i c. light brown sugar i| c. flour 

2 tsp. ginger 



2l6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

SCORE CARDS 

Rolled Cookies 

General appearance 30 

Uniformity (5) 
Size (5) 

Shape (10) 

Color (5) 

Surface (5) 

Texture . . . 20 

Lightness (10) 
Color (5) 

Crispness (5) 

Flavor 50 

Taste (25) 

Odor (25) 

100 

Dropped Cookies 

General appearance 30 

Uniformity (5) 
Shape (10) 

Size (5) 

Color (5) 

Surface (5) 

Texture 20 

Lightness (5) 
Tenderness (10) 
Color (5) 

Flavor 50 

100 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



217 



FOOD VALUES 
Molasses Cookies 













| 






gl- 


s3 




MATERIAL 


i 


Si 

3 8 


li 


15 1 


si 


ji 


i 




|a| 


i 




H 


go 


|o 


fe o 







u 


Ij 


Id* 


^c5 












CJ 




$ 




* 




Molasses . 


I C. 


326.3 


8.07 




233.05 


965 


.042 


1.118 


.965 


.048 


Butter . . 


It. 


56.7 


57 


48.2 




436 


.04 


.013 


.017 




Flour . 


3C. 


333.6 


37.36 


3-34 


249.87 


1178 


.03 


.082 


.589 


.0047 


Soda . . 


itsp. 


2.1 










.0004 








Salt . . 


2 tsp. 


9.2 










.0006 








Ginger 


i tbsp. 


6 










.003 








Totals, / 
cooked \ 


'4 1 
large J 


628.4 


46.46 


51.56 


482.92 


2579 


.116 


z.,13 


1.561 


.0527 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


i large 


23-38 


i.75 


1.96 


18.45 


IOO 


.004 


.047 


.062 


.0020 



Hermits 



Butter . . 


i 


84.2 


.842 


71.57 




647.5 


.0425 


.019 


.025 




Sugar . . 


!c. 


137 






137 


548 


.02 








Egg . . 


i 


44-5 


5.96 


4.67 




66 


.036 


.039 


.158 


.0012 


Milk . . 


2 tbsp. 


42.8 


I.4I 


I.7I 


2.14 


30 


.0028 


.069 


.09 


.0001 


Flour . 


ifc. 


194.6 


21.79 


1.94 


145-75 


688 


.021 


.048 


344 


.0027 


Raisins 


Ic. 


5L3 


1.33 


1.49 


39.03 


175 


.0117 


035 


.14 


.0017 


Spices . . 




ii.3 


















Total, 






















cooked 


52 


479 


38.91 


81.39 


323.92 


2153 


.134 


.210 


.757 


.0057 


zoo-Calorie 


small 




















Portion 


3 


22.22 


1.55 


3-77 


15-2 


IOO 


.0057 


.0105 


.0378 


.0002 



CHAPTER XIV 
CAKE 

CAKES WITH BUTTER 
General Rules for Mixing. 

Measure all ingredients, and grease the pans. Mix and sift dry 
ingredients except sugar. Cream butter by continued rubbing against 
the bowl with a wooden spoon. (Any edible fat may be used in place 
of butter.) Add the sugar gradually and continue creaming until 
mixture is smooth. Beat yolk of egg until thick and lemon-colored; 
add to the butter and sugar. Add the flour and milk alternately; 
add vanilla. Beat whites until stiff and dry ; cut and fold into the 
mixture. When fruit or nuts are used, save out a little flour to cover 
them and add to the cake just before the whites of the eggs. Fill 
greased pans half full, with sides well filled and a slight depression in 
the center. 

General Rules for Baking. 

Temperature of oven moderate. 
Time depends on thickness of cake. 

a. cup cakes, 12-15 minutes 
layer cakes, 20-30 minutes 
loaf cakes, 30-40 minutes 

b. quarters of time 

1. begins to rise 

2. continues rising; begins to brown 

3. finishes browning 

4. shrinks from pan 

218 



CAKE 219 

Care after Baking. 

a. loosen edges with knife 

b. invert on cooler 

c. turn right side up after a few minutes 

Standard Cake 

Ingredients : 

| c. butter ^ c. milk 

1 c. sugar i^ c. flour 

2 eggs 2\ tsp. baking powder 

i tsp. lemon juice or \ tsp. vanilla 

Modifications : 

Spice 

i tsp. spice sifted with the flour 

Nut 

1 c. chopped nuts added before folding in the whites 

Chocolate 

2 oz. melted and added after adding the yolks 

Currant 

\ c. added before folding in the whites 
Ribbon 

Double the recipe and bake f as 2 plain layers. To remaining 
add i tbsp. molasses, i tsp. spice, and f c. raisins. 

White Cake 

Ingredients : 

| c. butter 2 c. flour 

i c. sugar 4 tsp. baking powder 

whites 4 eggs | c. milk 

\ tsp. almond extract 

Spanish Cake 

Ingredients : 

\ c. butter if c. flour 

1 c. sugar 3 tsp. baking powder 
\ c. milk i^ tsp. cinnamon 

2 eggs 1 tsp. salt 



220 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Chocolate Cake I 

Ingredients : 

3 oz. chocolate \ c. sugar \ c. milk 

Boil until thickens to a paste and cool. Add to : 

| c. butter 2 c. flour 

1 c. sugar i tsp. baking soda 

2 eggs \ tsp. salt 
i tsp. vanilla \ c. milk 



Ingredients : 

2 oz. chocolate 
4 tbsp. butter 
\ c. boiling water 

Add 

i c. sugar 
i egg 



Chocolate Cake II 



Boil until it thickens to a paste and cool 



i c. sour milk 



i c. flour 
f tsp. soda 



Ingredients : 

1 c. butter 

2 c. sugar 
i c. milk 



Lady Baltimore Cake 



3^ c. flour 

2 tsp. baking powder 

whites 6 eggs 



3 c. sugar 



Lady Baltimore Cake Filling 

i c. water 



Boil to thread stage and pour on stiffly beaten whites of 3 eggs. 
When begins to thicken add i c. chopped raisins, pecans, and figs. 



Ingredients : 
i Ib. butter 
i Ib. sugar 
10 eggs 



Pound Cake 



1 Ib. flour 

\ tsp. mace 

2 tbsp. brandy 



CAKE 221 

Gold Cake 

Ingredients : 

8 yolks of eggs 2\ c. flour 

f c. butter i tsp. cream of tartar 

\\ c. sugar \ tsp. soda 

f c. milk i tbsp. vanilla 

Method: 

Mix soda and flour and sift 3 times. Cream butter and sugar, 

beat yolks until very light, add cream of tartar, then add this to the 

butter and sugar. Mix well and add milk, flour, and flavoring. 

This recipe is particularly good for small cakes. 

Date Loaf Cake 

Ingredients : 

i Ib. dates (after stoning) i c. flour 

i Ib. pecans shelled 4 eggs 

i c. sugar i^ tsp. baking powder 

1 tsp. brandy or J tsp. salt 

i tsp. vanilla 

Method : 

Wash and stone dates. Wash pecans and add to date pulp. Chop 
slightly. Beat yolks of eggs until foamy and mix with the sugar 
through the date and nut mixture. Add flavoring and the sifted dry 
ingredients and fold in the beaten whites. Bake as a loaf 50 minutes 
in a moderate oven. 

Orange Loaf Cake 

Ingredients : 

2 c. sugar 4 eggs 

\ c. butter i\ c. flour 

\ c. orange juice 3 tsp. baking powder 

grated rind of i orange f tsp. salt 

Method: 

Cream the butter, add the sugar and yolks of the eggs. Add to 
this the grated rind of i orange. Mix and sift the dry ingredients 
and add alternately with the liquid to the first mixture. Line a deep 
pan with parafiin paper and allow the cake to bake in moderate oven 
,35-40 minutes. 



222 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Coffee Cake 

Ingredients : 

1 c. butter i tsp. cinnamon 

2 c. sugar \ tsp. cloves 

4 eggs \ tsp. mace 

2 tbsp. molasses \ tsp. allspice 
i c. cold boiled coffee f c. raisins 
3f c. flour f c. currants 

5 tsp. baking powder \ c. citron 

2 tbsp. brandy 

Apple Sauce Cake 

Ingredients : 

i c. butter 3 c. flour 

i c. sugar i tsp. soda 

i egg \ tsp. allspice, cinnamon, 

i c. molasses and clove 

i c. apple sauce (unsweetened) \ grated nutmeg 

\ c. raisins and currants 

Fruit Cake 

Ingredients : 

i Ib. butter 12 eggs 

i Ib. brown sugar \ Ib. almonds 

i Ib. flour 2 tsp. nutmeg 

3 Ib. raisins 2 tsp. cloves 

3 Ib. currants 2 tsp. cinnamon 

i Ib. mixed fruit peel 3 tbsp. vanilla 

juice of 2 lemons 

Molasses Layer Cake 

Ingredients : 

i c. molasses i c. hot water 

\ c. sugar 2 eggs 

1 c. shortening 2^ c. flour 

2 tsp. soda i tsp. cinnamon 

i tsp. cloves 
Method: 

Follow directions for flour mixtures and bake as a layer cake. 



CAKE 223 

Filling for Molasses Cake 

Ingredients : 

i c. milk | c. sugar 

| cake chocolate i tbsp. cornstarch 

\ tsp. vanilla 
Method: 

Melt the chocolate in a double boiler. Mix the sugar and corn- 
starch and add gradually to the melted chocolate alternately with the 
milk. Stir the mixture with a wooden spoon constantly in order to 
prevent lumps and to make a smooth paste. Allow the whole to 
cook in a double boiler 1 5 minutes. Add flavoring, and when custard 
has cooled slightly, use as a filling for the molasses cake. 

NOTE : Whipped cream may be used as the upper covering. This cake is 
best used as a dessert. 



Canned Raspberry Cake 

Ingredients : 

2 eggs | nutmeg 

i c. brown sugar i tbsp. cinnamon 

^ c. butter i tbsp. sour milk 
i c. canned strawberries or rasp- i tsp. soda 

berries i c. flour 



Hot Water Ginger Cake 

Ingredients : 

i c. molasses i tsp. soda 

c. boiling water ij tsp. ginger 

2\ c. flour \ tsp. salt 
4 tbsp. melted butter 

Sweet or Sour Milk Ginger Cake 

Ingredients : 

| c. butter if c. flour 

| c. sugar i tsp. ginger 

^ c. molasses \ tsp. cinnamon 

i egg | tsp. soda 

c. milk sour or sweet 



224 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Ginger Cup Cakes 

Ingredients : 

I c. butter i tsp. ginger 

\ c. sugar i tsp. cloves 

1 c. molasses i c. boiling water 

2 eggs 2\ c. flour 

1 tsp. cinnamon 2 tsp. soda 

\ tsp. salt 

Roxbury Cakes 

Ingredients: 

\ c. butter i c. flour 

\ c. sugar i tsp. soda or 

\ c. molasses 2 tsp. baking powder 

2 eggs i tsp. cloves 

\ c. milk sour or sweet f tsp. nutmeg 

\ c. nuts \ c. raisins or dates 

CAKES WITHOUT BUTTER 
General Rules for Mixing. 

Sift flour and sugar several times before measuring each. Beat 
yolks until lemon-colored, add sugar gradually and flavoring. Partly 
fold in stiffly beaten whites. Fold in the flour sifted with the salt. 
The folding should be carefully done so that the mixture will not 
become stiff. 

General Rules for Baking. 

Use a tube cake pan unbuttered. Slow oven 40-60 minutes. 
Oven door should not be opened during first 20 minutes. After 
baking, invert pan on cake cooler and do not remove cake until cold. 

Sponge Cakes 

Yellow Sponge Cake 

Ingredients : 

yolks of 6 eggs grated rind ^ lemon 

i c. sugar whites of 6 eggs 

i tbsp. lemon juice i c. flour 
| tsp. salt 



CAKE 225 

Boiled Sponge Cake 

Ingredients : 

i c. sugar ^ c. water 

i c. flour 6 eggs 

Boil sugar and water to thread stage. Add to 6 whites beaten stiff, 
and beat until cold. Fold in flour sifted with i tsp. salt and a few 
grains of cream of tartar. Fold in the well-beaten yolks. 



Sponge Drops \ 

Ingredients : 

3 whites eggs ^ c. flour 

2 yolks eggs \ tsp. salt 

\ c. powdered sugar \ tsp. vanilla 

Drop from teaspoon on buttered sheets. 



Sponge Cakes with Baking Powder 

When eggs are expensive, the number may be decreased, and bak- 
ing powder used to help raise the mixture. 



Hot Water Sponge Cake 

Ingredients : 

yolks of 3 eggs 2 tsp. baking powder 

i c. sugar whites 3 eggs 

i c. flour grated rind \ orange 

juice of orange and enough hot water to make \ cup 



Sponge Cake 

Ingredients : 

3 eggs i tsp. baking powder 

i c. sugar i c. cold water 

i c. flour i tsp. vanilla 
\ tsp. salt 



226 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Jelly Roll 

Ingredients : 

i c. sugar i c. flour 

5 eggs i tsp. baking powder 

i tsp. vanilla i tsp. salt 

Line oblong pan with greased paper. When baked, remove paper, 
spread with jelly and roll. 

White Sponge Cake 

Ingredients : 

whites of 8 eggs i tsp. vanilla 

i tsp. cream tartar \ tsp. salt 

i c. sugar, fine granulated f c. flour 

Mocha Cakes 
Bake sponge cake mixture in a shallow pan. See below. 

Sponge Cake for Mocha Cakes 

Ingredients : 

yolks 2 eggs grated rind \ lemon 

| c. sugar whites 2 eggs 

\ tbsp. lemon juice \ c. flour 

salt 
Method: 

Beat yolks until creamy ; add sugar, beat well, lemon juice. Fold 
in stiffly beaten whites ; when partially folded in, fold in flour. Bake 
in unbuttered pan in a slow oven. 

Cut cake in small circles, put together in 3 layers with thin 
coating of frosting ; cover sides with frosting and roll in fresh coco- 
nut or chopped nuts. Ornament top with frosting. 

Frosting for Mocha Cakes 

Ingredients : 

| c. butter i c. powdered sugar 

Method: 

Cream the butter and add the sugar. Add i c. cream filling 
(cooled). Add tsp. vanilla, i| oz. melted chocolate. 



CAKE 227 

Genoese Cakes 

Bake jelly roll mixture in a shallow pan. Have mixture when 
baked about J inch thick. Cut the cake into fancy shapes, dip each 
in glaze, allow this to cool and then redip the cakes in soft fondant, 
colored and flavored. These may be decorated with the following : 

cherries citron 

nuts angelica 

candied violet leaves candied rose leaves 



T * I 

Ingredients : 

% c. sugar | c. water 

Method: 

Put the sugar and water in a saucepan and stir the mixture until 
the sugar is dissolved. Allow the sirup to cook until a hard ball 
forms in cold water ; when the sirup has cooled slightly, use it to 
glaze Genoese cakes. 

SCORE CARDS 

Loaf Cake 
General appearance ............... 25 

Size (5) 

Shape (10) , 

Color (5) 

Surface (5) 

Flavor .................... 50 

Taste (25) 

Odor (25) 

Texture and interior appearance ........... 25 

Lightness (5) 

Tenderness (5) 

Elasticity (5) 

Grain (5) 

Color (5) 

100 



228 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Layer Cake 

General appearance 15 

Size (5) 

Shape (5) 

Surface (5) 

Layers . 35 

Thickness (10) 
Flavor (15) 

Texture (10) 

Filling 30 

Consistency (10) 
Suitability (5) 
Flavor (5) 

Thickness (5) 
Color (2) 

Surface (3) 

Combined flavor 20 

100 

Sponge Cake 

General appearance 25 

Color (5) 

Surface (10) 
Shape (10) 

Flavor 50 

Taste (40) 

Odor (10) 

Texture and interior appearance 25 

Lightness (5) 
Tenderness (5) 
Elasticity (5) 
Grain (5) 

Color (5) 

100 



CAKE 



229 



FOOD VALUES 
Hot Water Gingerbread 





. 


i 


Si 




"DRATE 

us 


3 




4 


1, 


J5 | 


MATERIAL 


I 


2 




< g 


w ^ 


O 


o 


3 ^ g 


S rt rt 


i| 




M 


^ o 


P$ ^ 


o 





E"" 1 *^ 


w 


^ u O 


S^o 


^o 




a 








a 




$ 


s 


3 




Molasses . 


I C. 


332 


7.97 




230.08 


953 


.0375 


1.14 


9 


.049 


Water . . 


Jc. 


114.6 


















Flour . . 


2^ C. 


250.2 


28.02 


2.50 


187.4 


883 


.028 


.06 


44 


.003 


Soda . . 


i tsp. 


4.3 










.001 








Ginger 


i| tsp. 


4 










.0015 








Salt . . 


^ tsp. 


2.25 


















Melted 






















butter . 


4 tbsp. 


78 


78 


66.52 




600 


.06 


.017 


.023 




Total, [ 
cooked! 


Loaf 
10X6X2 
inches 


674 


36.77 


69.12 


417.48 


2436 


.1281 


1.217 


1.363 


.052 


loo-Cal- f 


2jXl| 




















orie Por-< 


X2 




















tion 1 


inches 


27.63 


1.51 


2.9 


17.12 


IOO 


.005 


051 


055 


.002 



Chocolate Cake 



Sugar . . 


I C. 


205.5 






205.5 


822 


.02 








Butter 


i c. 


59-7 


.6 


50.75 




459 


.04 


.013 


.0183 




Eggs . .. 


2 


95-6 


12.91 


10.04 




141 


.06 


.064 


.3384 


.0026 


Flour . . 


ii c. 


i48. 3 


16.61 


1.48 


1 11.08 


523 


.01 


.036 


.262 


.002 


Milk . . 


f c. 


161.9 


5.34 


6.48 


8.10 


112 


.01 


257 


339 


.0003 


Chocolate 


2 OZ. 


37.9 


4.89 


18.46 


11.48 


231 


.04 


.046 


324 




Soda . . 


|tsp. 


2.2 










.0005 








Total, [ 
cooked | 


9X5X2 


62 4 


40.25 


87.21 


336.16 


2289 


.21 


.416 


1.2817 


.0049 


! 


inches 




















loo-Cal- [ 






















orie Por-< 


1X1^X3 


26.83 


1-73 


3-75 


14-45 


IOO 


.01 


.016 


.0512 


.0001 


tion [ 


inches 





















230 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

FOOD VALUES 
Hot Water Sponge Cake 













B 






o 


Sd 






jjj 


M * 


2 f> 


e 


i* en 


H " 




0CJ U5 


o^S 


tn 


MATERIAL 


M 


W *S 


y 


Si 


1 

go 


S 


I 


1*3 


S!2 
u 


II 




^ 








9 


^ 




u l 


la 














u 




$ 








Eggs . . 


2 


9 


12.06 


9-45 




132 


.058 


.079 


.264 


.0013 


Sugar . . 


I C. 


205,5 






205.5 


822 


.0271 








Flour . . 


I C. 


112. 2 


12.45 


i. ii 


83.28 


392 


.0117 


.027 


.196 


.OOI5 


Baking 






















powder . 


ij tsp. 


9 










.004 








Lemon juice 


2 tbsp. 


28.2 






2.76 


II 


.016 


.009 


.006 




Water . . 


I c. 




















Total, 
cooked 


1 2 small 
cakes 


360.6 


24.51 


10.56 


291.54 


1357 


.1168 


.us 


.466 


.0028 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion . 


i 


26.32 


1.78 


.77 


21.28 


IOO 


.0685 


.008 


.032 


.OOOI 



COOKED FROSTINGS 



Ingredients : 



White Mountain 



i c. sugar 
I c. water 
| tsp. cream of tartar 



i egg white 

i tsp. lemon juice 

i tsp. vanilla 



Method: 

Boil first three ingredients to thread stage. Pour slowly on beaten 
white, add flavoring, and heat until thick enough to spread. 

Chocolate I 

2-4 oz. chocolate melted. 

Add to White Mountain Frosting before spreading on cake. 



CAKE 231 

Chocolate II 

4 oz. chocolate melted with a little milk. Cook until thickens, 
add i c. sugar. Remove from fire, add i tbsp. butter, i tsp. vanilla. 
Beat until smooth. 



Fudge Frosting 

Ingredients: 

i c. sugar c. milk 

2 oz. chocolate 

Method: 

Boil to soft ball stage. Add 2 tbsp. butter and i tsp. vanilla. Cool. 
Beat until thick enough to spread. 



Maple 

| Ib. maple sugar f c. boiling water 

i egg white 

Break or grate sugar. Method same as White Mountain. 



Caramel 

i c. brown sugar \ c. granulated sugar 

f c. cream \ tbsp. butter 

Prepare as Fudge Frosting. 



UNCOOKED FROSTINGS 

Confectioners' Frosting 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. water, milk, fresh fruit confectioners' sugar 

juice or cream flavoring 

Method: 

To the liquid add enough sifted sugar to make of right consistency 
to spread, then add flavoring. 



232 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Chocolate Frosting 

Ingredients : 

2 oz. chocolate 3 tbsp. hot water 

1 tbsp. butter confectioners' sugar 

\ tsp. vanilla 
Method: 

Melt chocolate over boiling water, add butter and hot water. 
Cool, and add sugar to make of right consistency to spread. Flavor 
with vanilla. 

Cocoa Frosting 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. cocoa i tbsp. butter 
boiling water to make paste confectioners' sugar 

i tsp. vanilla 

Coffee Frosting 

Ingredients : 

2 tsp. cocoa i tbsp. butter 

confectioners' sugar 2 tbsp. strong coffee 

Method: 

Melt butter in the hot coffee. Add cocoa and sugar until of right 
consistency to spread. 

Mocha Frosting 

Ingredients : 

I c. butter i tbsp. breakfast cocoa 

i^ c. confectioners' sugar coffee infusion 

Method: 

Cream butter, and add sugar gradually, continuing the beating; 
then add cocoa and coffee infusion drop by drop until of right con- 
sistency to spread. 

Orange Frosting 

Ingredients : 

4 tbsp. orange juice i tsp. lemon juice 

rind i orange 



CAKE 233 

Method: 

Soak rind in the juice \ hour, strain. Add 2 egg yolks, and con- 
fectioners' sugar to spread. 

CAKE FILLINGS 
Lemon Orange 

Ingredients : 

i c. sugar | c. sugar 

2\ tbsp. flour 2\ tbsp. flour 

rind of 2 lemons rind \ orange 

| c. lemon juice \ c. orange juice 

i egg \ tbsp. lemon juice 

i tsp. butter i egg 

i tsp. butter 
Method: 

Mix sugar and flour, add fruit juice and rind. Cook 20 minutes in 
double boiler. Add egg and cook a little longer, stirring constantly. 
Add butter and cool. 



Cream Chocolate 

Ingredients : 

7 tbsp. sugar c. sugar 

2 tbsp. flour 3 tbsp. flour 

salt i oz. chocolate 

i c. milk scalded i c. milk scalded 

i egg i egg yolk 

\ tsp. vanilla i tsp. vanilla 

Method : 

Mix dry ingredients with a little of the cold milk. Add to the 
scalded milk, and cook 20 minutes in double boiler. Add egg and 
cook a little longer. Add the vanilla. Cool. 

Chocolate. Shave the chocolate and add i tbsp. hot water to it. 
Heat it in double boiler until smooth. Pour the cooked flour mix- 
ture over this. Then add the egg and vanilla. 



234 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Ingredients : 

% Ib. chopped figs c. boiling water 

f c. sugar i tbsp. lemon juice 

Method: 

Mix all together, and cook in a double boiler until thick enough 
to spread. 

Fruit 
Add chopped fruit and nuts to White Mountain Frosting. 



CHAPTER XV 
PASTRY 

Plain Paste I 

Ingredients : 

i c. flour ^ tsp. salt 

I c. lard ice water 

Plain Paste II 

i c. flour | c. lard 

I c. butter \ tsp. salt 

ice water 

Flour. Pastry or bread flour may be used. 

Shortening. Butter, lard, crisco, oleomargarine, drippings, 
chicken fat, or refined oils or combinations of two or more may be 
used. 

General Rules for Plain Paste. 

I. Sift flour, measure and sift flour and salt. Cut in shortening 
with 2 knives. Add water to make a stiff dough. Chill. Roll out 
on floured board. 

II. Wash butter in cold water to remove salt and buttermilk. 
Chill butter and lard. Sift flour and salt and cut in shortening. 
Roll lightly into an oblong piece ; roll from center forward and from 
center backward. Fold crosswise in thirds. Turn halfway around, 
roll and fold a second time. 



Puff Paste 

Ingredients : 

i Ib. bread flour i Ib. butter 

ice water 

235 



236 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

The liquid may be cream, water, or egg whites. Weigh the butter, 
place in ice water, and wash to remove salt and buttermilk. Weigh 
the flour and add water to make a stiff dough, wrap in a towel and 
put on ice. (Placing between 2 pans of chopped ice is a convenient 
way of chilling.) Dredge board with flour, also the rolling pin. 
Roll the dough into a rectangle almost as long as the board. Place 
the butter in center, fold the paste one side over and press edges 
together. Fold in thirds lower part over, upper part under. 
Press edges, pound lightly with rolling pin to a rectangle and fold 
in thirds both over. Turn the mixture halfway around, pound, 
roll and fold. Repeat twice unless the butter shows through the 
flour mixture, and chill. Repeat three times, and the last time fold 
from ends to center and double, making 4 layers. Chill. Use this 
paste for tarts, patties, or crusts. 

Patties 

Cut off a piece of dough, turn halfway round, pound to i inch in 
thickness. Cut tops, pound a little thinner and cut first layers. 
Cut five small centers from the tops. Put together, place on sheet 
and chill 15 minutes. 

Baking : 

21 mm. in hot oven 
, 7 min. rise 

7 min. brown 
, 7 min. finish baking at reduced temperature 

Cheese Straws 

Roll out paste, sprinkle with grated cheese and cayenne. Fold, 
turn, and pound 3 times. Chill. Cut in strips. 

Banbury Tarts 

Cut paste 3 X 3^ inches. Place \ tsp. of Banbury Filling on one 
side, fold one side over and press edges. Prick top with fork. 



PASTRY 



237 



Banbury Filling 

Ingredients : 

i lemon boiled 15 minutes i c. sugar 

i c. raisins i egg 

Method : 

Remove seeds from lemon, chop raisins and lemon, and add sugar 
and egg. 

CLASSIFICATION OF PIES 

One Crust Unbaked, 
Lattice top 



One Crust Baked One Crust Unbaked 



Chocolate 
Coconut 
Cream 
Lemon 


Custard 
Pumpkin 
Sour cream 


Cherry 
Cranberry 
Mock cherry 


Two Crusts 


Turnover 


Tarts 


Apple 
Mince 


Apple 
Fruit mixtures 


My 
Banbury 
Cream 
Fruit mixtures 



One Crust Baked 

Invert pie tin. Bake crust on it; turn right side up as soon as 
baked. 

CREAM COCONUT CHOCOLATE LEMON 



Sugar . . 


.1C. 1C. 


I C. 


I C. 


Flour . . 


. 4 tbsp. 2 tbsp. 


3 tbsp. 


5 tbsp. 


Salt . . . 


. Jtsp. itsp. 


itsp. 


itsp. 


Milk . . . 


. 2 C. 1^ C. 


2 C. 


i c. boiling water 


Egg yolks . 


3 2 


3 


2 


Butter . . 


. i tsp. i tsp. 




i tbsp. 


Vanilla . . 


. i tsp. i tbsp. 


i tbsp. 


juice and rind 



i c. coconut 2 oz. chocolate 
or | c. cocoa 



i lemon 



Ingredients : 

2 whites of eggs 



Meringue 

4 tbsp. granulated sugar 



238 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Add sugar slowly to stiffly beaten whites and continue beating. 
Bake in slow oven. 

One Crust Unbaked 

Line a very deep tin with paste, allowing \ inch on edge of plate 
for a frill. Turn crust under and make a frill with thumb and fore- 
fingers. 

To prevent 'soggy crust : 

Brush paste with white of egg 
Dredge paste with flour 

Custard Pumpkin 

Ingredients : Ingredients : 

2 eggs | tsp. salt 1 1 c. pumpkin i tsp. ginger 

3 tbsp. sugar i| c. milk i c. brown sugar \ tsp. salt 

| tsp. nutmeg i tsp. cinnamon 2 eggs 

i c. milk 2 tbsp. molasses 

Sour Cream 

Ingredients : 

3 yolks of eggs i c. Chopped raisins 

i c. sugar i tsp. cinnamon 

i c. sour cream \ tsp. cloves 
\ tsp. salt 

One Crust Unbaked Lattice Top 

Line deep tin with paste ; cut off close to edge. Cover top of pie 
with strips of paste. 

Mock Cherry 

Ingredients : 

i c. cranberries i c. sugar 

\ c. raisins 2 tbsp. flour 

\ c. cold water 



PASTRY 239 

Method: 

Cut cranberries in halves. Wash to remove seeds. Chop with 
raisins and add remaining ingredients. 

Two Crusts 

Line tin with plain paste. Fill and cover with a paste, which has 
been pricked to allow the escape of steam. Insert a narrow strip of 
paste between lining and top. Moisten with cold water and press 
edges firmly. Trim and ornament as desired. 

NOTE : A strip of cloth may be wrapped around the pie to prevent escape 
of juice. A cornucopia of paper inserted in the center allows 
the escape of juice. 

Apple Pie 

tart apples spice 

sugar butter 

water 

Mince Meat 

Ingredients : 

2 Ibs. fresh beef, stewed and put through a meat grinder 

1 Ib. beef suet, finely chopped 
5 Ibs. chopped apples 

2 Ibs. seeded raisins 

1 Ib. sultana raisins 

2 Ibs. currants 

| Ib. citron, finely cut 
2 tbsp. cinnamon 

1 tbsp. nutmeg 

2 tbsp. mace 
i tbsp. cloves 

i\ Ibs. brown sugar 

i tbsp. salt 

\ Ib. candied orange peel 

| Ib. candied lemon peel 

i qt. boiled cider 

water 



240 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Mix all ingredients except the raisins with water to cover and allow 
the mixture to cook 6 hours slowly, adding water as necessary to 
prevent burning. When ready to use, add the raisins. Spread in a 
pastry shell, dot over with small pieces of butter, and cover with 
upper crust. 

Green Tomato Mince Meat 1 

Ingredients : 

2 c. chopped green tomato 2 c. brown sugar 

2 c. chopped sweet apples ^ c. molasses 

\ c. cracker crumbs . \ c. vinegar 

| c. butter i c. raisins 

i tbsp. each : i c. currants 

cinnamon mace 

cloves nutmeg 

Method: 

Mix all the ingredients except the butter and allow the mixture to 
cook slowly until thick. Add the butter just before removing from 
the fire. This mixture is sufficient for three pies. 



Turnovers 

Cut paste in squares and fold over the filling as triangles or in 
circles as half circles. 



Tarts 

Cover back of tin cups with paste, prick, bake, remove from crust 
and fill. Cut 2 circles of paste. Remove center of one and put the 
two circles together with cold water. Bake and place a small amount 
of filling in each. 

1 Students who grow their own tomatoes will find this an excellent way to utilize 
tomatoes which are still green at frost. 



PASTRY 241 

SCORE CARDS 



General appearance 


Two-crust Pie 


Form 
Attractiveness 
Design 
Workmanship 
Pastry 


(5) 
(5) 
(5) 
(5) 


Upper crust 
Flakiness 
Tenderness 
Surface 
Palatability 
Bake 
Under crust 
Color 
Bake 
Rim 
Filling . . . 


(5) 
(5) 
(5) 
(5) 
(10) 

(5) 
(5) 
(5) 


Flavor 
Consistency 
Thoroughness of 

Ease of serving 


(20) 

(5) 
cooking (5) 



20 



45 



__ 
100 

One-crust Pie 
General appearance 20 

Color (10) 

Shape (10) 
Pastry 35 

Color (5) 

Tenderness (5) 

Surface (5) 

Palatability (10) 

Bake (10) 
Filling 40 

Consistency (5) 

Flavor (30) 

Smoothness (5) 

Ease of serving 5 

100 



242 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

One-crust Pie and Meringue 

General appearance 20 

Workmanship (10) 

Attractiveness (10) 
Pastry 30 

Color (5) 

Flakiness (5) 

Tenderness (5) 

Surface (5) 

Palatability (5) 

Condition (5) 
Filling 30 

Consistency (5) 

Smoothness (5) 

Flavor (20) 
Meringue 15 

Color (3) 

Surface (3) 

Lightness (3) 

Tenderness (3) 

Bake (3) 

Ease of serving 5 

100 



CHAPTER XVI 

FLOUR MIXTURES USING SOUR MILK, BUTTERMILK, 
SOUR CREAM 

Brown Bread 

Ingredients : 

2 c. graham flour i c. sour milk or butter- 

i c. corn meal milk 

i c. sweet milk f c. molasses 

1 tsp. soda i tsp. salt 
Method: 

Mix the graham flour well with the corn meal, sifting the soda and 
salt with the corn meal. Add the liquid ingredients and stir 
thoroughly. Bake in a well-greased covered pan or mold in a 
moderate oven two hours. 

Indian Bread 

Ingredients : 

2 c. corn meal 2 c. sour milk 
i c. flour i c. molasses 
2 tsp. soda i tsp. salt 

Method: 

Sift soda, salt, and flour. Add the corn meal, mix well and 
add the liquid ingredients. Turn into a buttered mold and steam 3 
hours. 

Steamed Graham Bread 

Ingredients : 

i egg i c. sour milk 

i c. graham flour ^ c. molasses 

i c. wheat flour i tsp. soda 
^ tsp. salt 

243 



244 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Sift the soda, salt, and wheat flour. Mix well with the graham 
flour, add the liquid ingredients and lastly the egg, slightly beaten. 
Turn into a well-greased mold and steam two hours. 

Corn Meal Gems 

Ingredients : 

i c. sweet milk | c. molasses 

3 tbsp. sour cream i tsp. soda 

i c. corn meal i c. wheat flour 

% tsp. salt 
Method: 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Add the liquids and mix 
thoroughly. Turn into greased muffin tins, and bake in a moderate 
oven 12 minutes. 

Graham Pudding 

Ingredients : 

1 c. buttermilk or i c. molasses 
sour milk i c. raisins 

2 c. graham flour i tsp. soda 
i tsp. cinnamon \ tsp. salt 

Method: 

Mix the cinnamon, salt, and soda well with the graham flour. Add 
the liquid ingredients and the raisins. Mix thoroughly and turn 
into a buttered mold and allow it to steam three hours, or turn into 
individual molds and steam 45 minutes. 

Plum Pudding 

Ingredients : 

3 c. chopped suet i c. sour milk 
i c. molasses 2 eggs 

i c. sugar , i tsp. nutmeg 

i Ib. raisins i tbsp. cinnamon 

i Ib. currants tsp. ginger 

| Ib. citron i tsp. cloves 

i tsp. soda \ tsp. mace 

i c. bread crumbs 



FLOUR MIXTURES USING SOUR MILK 245 

Method: 

Wash and prepare the currants and raisins. Put through the 
meat grinder with the citron. Mix the finely chopped suet with the 
bread crumbs and thoroughly mix the spices, salt, and soda all 
through. Add this to the first mixture, add the molasses and sour 
milk and lastly the eggs slightly beaten. Turn into buttered molds 
and steam five hours. 

Dried Apple Cake 

Ingredients : 

i c. dried apples (soaked over- i egg 

night) 3^ c. flour 

i c. molasses i tsp. soda 

\ c. butter i c. sugar 

i c. buttermilk i tsp. cloves 

i tsp. cinnamon i tsp. nutmeg 

Method, : 

Cook the molasses and dried apples until thick. Allow the mix- 
ture to cool. Cream the butter, add the sugar and egg slightly 
beaten. Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Add the milk and dry 
ingredients alternately to the egg mixture. Lastly add the molasses 
and apple. Mix thoroughly. Turn into a prepared pan and bake 
30 minutes in a moderate oven. 



Fruit Cake without Eggs 

Ingredients : 

1 c. sugar i c. sour milk 
4 tbsp. butter i c. raisins 

2 c. flour i tsp. soda 

\ tsp. salt i tsp. cinnamon 

\ tsp. cloves 
Method: 

Cream the butter, add the sugar and stir until the mixture is light- 
colored. Mix and sift the dry ingredients and add alternately to 
the first mixture. Add the raisins and bake in a moderate oven 30 
minutes. 



246 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Spice Cake I 

Ingredients : 

% c. butter \ c. sour milk 

\ c. sugar 2 c. flour 

\ c. molasses i tsp. soda 

1 egg \ tsp. cloves 

\ c. raisins \ tsp. cinnamon 

Method: 

Follow general directions for cake mixtures. Bake in very moder- 
ate oven 45 minutes. 

Spice Cake II 

Ingredients : 

f c. butter i c. buttermilk 

2 c. brown sugar 2 tsp. soda 

3 eggs 2 c. flour 

i tsp. cinnamon i tsp. cloves 

1 tsp. allspice i tsp. nutmeg 
Method : 

Follow general directions for cake mixture. Bake as a loaf cake 
40 minutes, or as a layer cake 30 minutes. 

Sugar Cookies 

Ingredients : 

2 c. sugar i c. sour cream 
2 eggs 2 tsp. soda 

i c. butter i tsp. cream of tartar 

flour to make a stiff dough 
Method: 

Follow general directions for cooky mixtures. 

Molasses Cookies I 

Ingredients : 

i egg i c. shortening 

1 c. sugar i c. buttermilk 

2 c. molasses i tsp. soda 

i tsp. ginger i tsp. cinnamon 

flour to make a stiff dough 
Method : 

Follow general directions for cooky mixtures. 



FLOUR MIXTURES USING SOUR MILK 247 

Molasses Cookies II 

Ingredients : 

i c. brown sugar i c. buttermilk 

i c. molasses i c. lard 

i tsp. salt i tsp. ginger 

if tsp. soda flour to make a soft dough 

Soft Gingerbread 

Ingredients : 

f c. sugar i c. buttermilk 

1 c. molasses i tsp. ginger 
| c. butter i tsp. cloves 

2 tsp. soda i\ c. flour 

2 eggs i tsp. cinnamon 

Method: 

Follow general rules for combining cake mixtures. Bake in a 
shallow pan 30 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Fried Cakes 

Ingredients : 

1 c. sugar \ c. sour cream 

2 eggs \ c. buttermilk 

i tsp. soda 2 tsp. baking powder 

i tsp. salt nutmeg 

flour to make a soft dough 

Doughnuts I 

Ingredients: 

1 c. sugar i tbsp. butter 

2 eggs i c. sour milk 
i tsp. soda nutmeg 

flour to make a soft dough 

Doughnuts II 

Ingredients : 

i c. sugar 3 tbsp. butter 

i c. thick sour milk i tsp. soda 

(beaten to a froth) \ tsp. nutmeg 

flour to make a soft dough \ tsp. salt 



CHAPTER XVII 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 

THE American salad is a combination of meat, fish, poultry, fruit, or 
vegetables served on salad greens with a dressing. The oil of the 
dressing usually gives a high fuel value. If made with meat, fish, or 
poultry, the protein content may also be high ; if fruits and vegetables 
are used, the salad may be chiefly significant for the ash constituents 
which these furnish. 



1. Salad greens are : 

lettuce 

chicory 

romaine 

endive 

escarole 

water cress 

2. Foundation salads are 

a. Meat 

chicken 
lamb 

b. Fish 

tuna 

c. Shellfish 

lobster 
shrimp 

d. Eggs 



white fish 



beet tops 

dandelions 

spinach 

celery 

cabbage 

chives 



veal 
sweetbread 

salmon 



crab 



248 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



249 



e. Vegetables 
potatoes 
beets 
peas 

asparagus 
radishes 

/. Fruits 

cherries 

lemon 

apples 

pears 

green peppers 

white grapes 

g. Miscellaneous 
figs 
nuts 

Salad dressings are : 
French 
boiled 



cauliflower 



bananas 



cheese 



mixtures 



carrots 

onions 

beans 

cucumbers 

celery 



oranges 

grapefruit 

peaches 

apricots 

green tomatoes 

pineapple 



dates 
gelatin 



mayonnaise 
cream 



NOTE : The above salad dressings have many variations as to color, taste, 
and consistency, but the foundation is one of the five given. 



Variations in salad dressings : 
a. French dressing 1 plus 

horseradish 

pimento 

chives 

beets, finely chopped 

parsley 

whipped cream 

hazelnuts 



Roquefort cheese 

chili sauce 

hard-cooked egg, minced 

green pepper 

celery, finely chopped 

pecans 

English walnuts 



1 Described in the next chapter. 



250 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



fruit juice in place of vinegar 
raspberry vinegar, or tarra- 
gon, used in place of 
cider vinegar 
b. Mayonnaise dressing l 
beaten white of egg 
fruit juice in place of vinegar 
green pepper, chopped 

olives 
raspberry vinegar 



water cress 
pepper grass 



whipped cream 

chili sauce 

pimento minced (puree) 

chives 

tabasco sauce 

sardines reduced to a paste 



c. Boiled dressings 

any variations as for mayonnaise 

Salads: when served: 

1. Formal meal 

green salad with French dressing or modification 

2. Informal meal 

a. any salad, provided the same ingredients are not repeated 

in another part of the meal 

b. any dressing 

3. Luncheon 

a. Formal 

green with French dressing 

fruit with French or mayonnaise dressing or modification 

chicken, if served in place of other meat in meal 

b. Informal 

any salad or dressing provided ingredients are not re- 
peated in other courses of meal 

4. Suppers 

meat 

fish 

shellfish [ used with any dressing or combination 

fruit 

miscellaneous 

1 Described in the next chapter. 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 251 



Light refreshments 
meat 
shellfish 
fruit 

asparagus 
miscellaneous 



used with any dressing or combination 



The attractive salad must embody the following points : 

freshness coolness 

crispness attractive color 

appetizing combination appropriateness to the meal 

harmonize with the decora- harmonize with the rest of 

tion and color of the china the meal 

in which it is served 

To prepare salad greens : 

a. Wash leaves and examine carefully for parasites, sand, etc. 

b. Pile leaves lightly on a cheesecloth, fold the cloth over and 

keep thus arranged on ice or near the ice, or 

c. Wash the leaves and place them in a tin pail which can be 

tightly covered. Set the pail in the ice box. Salad greens 
can be carried for a picnic in a pail and arrive in good 
condition. 

d. If salad greens are wilted, allow them to stand in cold or ice 

water for some time before attempting to prepare. 

Accessories served with salads : 

a. Breadstuff s 

bread sticks toast 

rolls cheese tea biscuits 

cheese straws cheese crackers 

toasted crackers saltines 
educator crackers 

b. Other accessories 

cheese balls toasted cheese 

fried cheese balls celery : curls, pieces, 

radishes hearts 

olives : ripe, green, stuffed Bar le Due currants 

nuts : salted, unsalted 



252 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Salads may be made in the greatest variety of combinations : among 
the most popular are : 

1. Meat 

a. chicken, celery 

chicken, celery, sour apple, pine nuts 
chicken, celery, pine nuts, tiny sections lemon 

b. veal, celery 

veal, chicken, celery 

c. lamb, celery 

d. sweet bread, endive cut in sections 

2. Fish 

a. tuna, celery 

b. salmon, celery 
salmon, cabbage 
salmon, cucumber, gelatin 

c. white fish, celery 

3. Shellfish 

a. lobster, celery 

b. crab, celery 

c. scallops 

4- Egg 

egg, green pepper 
egg, pimento 
egg, potato 

5. Vegetables 

a. potato 

French dressing potato, chives 

boiled dressing potato, parsley 

potato, carrot potato, egg 

potato, beets potato, cucumber, green 

potato, German onions pepper 

b. carrot 

grated raw, boiled, or cooked 
carrot, peas 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 253 

c. beets, potato 

beets, peas 

beets, stuffed with cabbage 

d. onions 

German onions, tomato 

onions, cucumber 

onion, dressing as sandwich 

e. peas, carrots 

peas, string beans 

peas, potato each in a lettuce cup 
/. beans 

string beans 

lima beans 

baked beans 
g. asparagus 

pimento 

green pepper 
h. cucumbers, radishes 

celery 
i. cauliflower, tart dressing 

6. Fruits 

a. white cherries, pieces pineapple 

white cherries, balls of pear, apple, or peach 

6. orange, grapefruit orange, water cress 

orange, pineapple orange, almonds 

orange, lemon, walnuts 

c. grapefruit, pineapple 

d. apple, celery, nuts 
apple, water cress 

e. peach halves filled with mayonnaise and nuts 

peach halves stuck with almonds covered with mayonnaise 
pears used as peaches 
/. fresh apricots, almonds, or pine nuts 
g. green pepper 

sliced or chopped 
stuffed with : 



254 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

cream cheese and mayonnaise 

cream cheese and pimento 

yellow cheese and mayonnaise 

American cheese and green and red pepper chopped very 

fine 
filled with : 

f i c. water juice i lemon 

jellied mayonnaise < . . , 

I 2 tsp. gelatin i c. mayonnaise 

tarragon jelly mixed with chopped cabbage, celery, pimento 

red pepper use as green pepper 
h. tomato 

sliced 

cut in halves, cover cut surface with stiff mayonnaise, over 
this chopped green pepper 

poinsettia 

cut skua and pulp in sections as petals of poinsettia 
remove part of pulp and seeds and fill cavity with 

chopped celery and green pepper 
i. cucumbers 

tomato and cucumber slices 

variations given with potato 
j. pineapple 

circles, nuts 

circles cut to make sections, roll of cream cheese 

between each section 

see white cherries, orange, grapefruit 
k. bananas 

banana, finely chopped peanuts 

7. Miscellaneous 

figs, dates, nuts, cream dressing 

dates, stuffed with cream cheese, mayonnaise dressing 

dates, almonds, mayonnaise dressing 

dates, Brazil nuts, mayonnaise dressing 

gelatin given 

Fruits and vegetables may be cut in cubes, balls, shredded, or fancy 
shapes. Containers may be made of orange or lemon rind, apples, 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 255 

peppers, tomatoes, peaches, pears, cabbage leaves, lettuce hearts, 
whole cabbage, beet shells, cucumbers, romaine leaves. 

Sandwiches 
General Rules. 

1 . Bread should be a day old, unless it is going to be rolled. White, 
graham, or Boston brown may be used. Sometimes two kinds are 
used in the same sandwich. Slice as thin as possible, remove crusts 
if desired, keeping the slices in pairs, then cut the desired shape. 
To give variety, bread may be cut in fancy shapes, hearts, triangles, 
squares, rectangles, circles, etc. The center may be removed from a 
white bread sandwich with a tiny cutter and the hole filled in with a 
piece of brown bread the size of the piece removed. 

2. Cream the butter by rubbing it against the sides of a bowl with 
a wooden spoon. 

3. Butter one side of the sandwich and put filling on the other side. 
Press lightly together. 

4. Wrap sandwiches in paraffin paper. Large numbers may be 
placed in a crock and covered with a damp towel and plate. 

5. Save crusts of bread. Dry and grate for fine crumbs for cro- 
quettes. 

6. Meat and poultry fillings are best when the meat is chopped. 

7. Serve sandwiches in a basket or on a plate covered with a doily. 

Sandwiches 

Conveyor of filling : 
Bread 

white Boston brown 

entire wheat nut 

graham raisin 

Gingersnaps 

cheese fillings are best with gingersnaps 
Crackers 

Educator Saltines 

fillings fillings 

cheese cheese 

marmalade nut 

fig date marmalade 



256 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Toast 

fillings 

marmalade 

fig 
date 
salad 

Fillings for sandwiches : 
Meat: 

ham chopped, seasoned 
ham chopped, sauce tartare 
ham chopped, hard-cooked eggs 
ham chopped, hard-cooked eggs, white sauce 
tongue, corned beef, lamb, veal, poultry or a combination of 
any of the above 

Baked beans : 
Salad: 

poultry, veal or lamb chopped, celery, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

cucumber, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

egg, mayonnaise, lettuce 

olive, cream cheese, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

egg, olives, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

lobster, celery, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

shrimp, celery, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

tuna fish, celery, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

salmon, celery, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

lettuce, mayonnaise 

lettuce, mayonnaise, sliced tomatoes 
Cheese : 

American cheese moistened with vinegar, anchovy essence, or 
sardine paste 

American cheese sliced ; dill pickles sliced, highly seasoned 

cream cheese moistened with cream 

cream cheese moistened with mayonnaise 

cream cheese, pimento 

cream cheese, walnuts or peanuts 

cream cheese, olives 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 257 

cream cheese, French dressing, pecans 

cream cheese, green and red peppers 

cream cheese, dairy cheese grated, highly seasoned 

cottage cheese, green peppers 

cottage cheese, parsley finely chopped 
Nut: 

walnuts or any nuts chopped, cream 

walnuts or any nuts chopped, mayonnaise 
Sour: 

sweet pickles, olives, red pepper, dressing 

sour pickles, green pepper, celery, dressing 

olives, celery, red pepper, dressing 

cucumber, green pepper, mayonnaise 

chives, tomato, cut fine, cucumber 
Miscellaneous : 

chopped dates, cream cheese 

sweet chocolate; preserved ginger, chopped, moistened with 
ginger sirup 

chopped dates, walnuts or any other kind of nut 

jelly, walnuts 

preserved ginger, walnuts 

figs, raisins, dates, nuts 

peanuts, raisins 

orange marmalade, nuts 

prunes, walnuts, lemon juice 

Fig Paste 

I Ib. figs \ J c. nuts 

> cook to a paste f . 

i c. water J juice \ lemon 

Orange Honey 
i c. sugar -I 

\ c. water > boil to thread stage 

\ c. orange juice J 

add 

\ c. orange peel chopped \ tsp. vanilla 

Bring to boiling point and cool 
s 



258 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Fancy Sandwiches 
Rolled 

Remove crusts from very fresh loaf of sandwich bread. Remove 
long slice of bread, spread with butter and a mixture of celery, green 
and red pepper, and mayonnaise. Roll like jelly roll. Cut across in 
|-inch slices. 

Club 

toasted bread lettuce 

chicken broiled bacon 

tomato mayonnaise 

Fairmont 

Spread three oblongs of bread with butter on both sides, 2 slices 
on one side. Put together with mixture of green and red peppers, 
celery, and mayonnaise. Wrap in cheesecloth and press under a 
weight. Slice. 

Spanish 

2 anchovies 2 pickles 

i piece parsley 2 tbsp. oil 

Pound and add : 

i tsp. prepared mustard 2 tbsp. oil 

yolks 2 hard-boiled eggs whites 2 hard-boiled eggs 

Checkers 

Cut three thick slices each white and brown bread. Spread one 
white with butter and cream cheese and place brown on it. Spread 
this slice and place a white slice on it. 

Repeat this process, starting with a brown slice. 

Put each in cheesecloth under weights. Trim and cut each in 3^- 
inch slices. Spread with butter and put together so that a white 
block alternates with a brown. Press again and slice thin. 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



2 59 



FOOD VALUES 
Vegetable Salad with Mayonnaise Dressing 













W 














P 


H 


B 


en 


< M 


en 




O 


1. 


en 


MATERIAL 


1 


i 


Is 


< i 


S 1 


H| 


i 


s 


|a| 


|S 




M 


> O 


o 


^ 


O fj 


H ^ 


u 


< 6O 


o oO 


HH r>J 









PH 




o 




$ 


1 


3 




Peas. . . . 


2 tbsp. 


40. 


1.44 


.008 


3-92 


22 


.006 


.007 


.052 


.0003 


Beans . ... 


2 tbsp. 


30.5 


33 


.03 


1-15 


6 


.006 


.01 


.017 


.0002 


Cauliflower 


i tbsp. 


23.6 


42 


.us 


i.i 


7 


.008 


.038 


.031 




Lettuce . . 


2 leaves 


31-7 


.38 


.095 


.91 


6 


.009 


015 


.028 


.0003 


Mayonnaise . 


i tbsp. 


14.4 


51 


4.41 




100 


.0098 


.005 


.031 


.0003 


Total . . . 


6 tbsp. 


140.2 


3-08 


4.66 


7.08 


141 


.0392 


.075 


159 


.0011 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion . . 


4i tbsp. 


98.9 


2.17 


3.28 


4.99 


100 


.0276 


.0052 


.Oil 


.0007 



Romaine or Lettuce Salad 



Romaine . . 


i head 


226.2 


2.71 


.68 


6.56 


43 


.06 


.III 


.202 


.002 


Olive oil . . 


5 tbsp. 


55-5 




55-5 




500 


049 


.007 


.009 


.OOOI 


Vinegar . . 


2 tbsp. 


29-3 










.003 








Mustard . . 


i tsp. 


2.8 










.003 








Pepper and salt 


I tsp. 


2.6 










.005 








Total . .^ . 


1 5 leaves 


316.4 


2.71 


56.18 


6.56 


543 


.12 


.118 


.211 


.0021 




ic. 






















dressing 




















loo-Calorie j 
Portion [ 


3 leaves 
i tbsp. 
dressing 


60.78 


5 


10.38 


1. 21 


100 


.022 


.020 


.038 


.0004 



Wholewheat Bread and Cheese Sandwich 



Loaf bread 






















(trimmed) . 


i 


231-4 


22.45 


2.08 


115.11 


569 


035 


.062 


.426 


.0017 


Butter . . . 


Si tbsp. 


99.2 


99 


84-32 




763 


.079 


.022 


.0305 




Cream cheese . 


fpkg. 


62.3 


161.36 


20.99 


i-5 


260 


037 


.78 


1.04 


.0003 


Total . . . 


24 


392.9 


184.8 


107-39 


116.61 


1592 


151 


.864 


1.4965 


.0020 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion . . 


ii 


24.36 


11.46 


6.66 


7-32 


IOO 


.009 


.0318 


.0897 


.0001 



Notice that in the sandwich the butter furnished more than half of the 
total energy value (calories), in the vegetable salad the oil of the mayonnaise 
furnished two-thirds of the calories, and in the lettuce salad the oil used as 
dressing furnished over ten times as much energy as the lettuce itself. 



CHAPTER XVIII 
SALAD DRESSINGS 

EXPERIMENTS WITH OILS 

194. a. Prepare French dressing, using recipe II given below 
(pp. 261-262). 

b. Again use this recipe, substituting for the vinegar the 

following : 

tarragon vinegar 

wine vinegar 

lemon juice 

\ lemon juice, \ orange juice 

grapefruit juice 

pineapple juice 

c. Again use this recipe, substituting for the olive oil the 

following oils : 

| olive oil, ^ cottonseed 

cottonseed 

peanut 

corn 

melted butter 

NOTE : The instructor may further test the above oils by using various fruit 
acids with each, as some fruit acids blend well with the olive oil 
substitutes. 

196. a. Prepare mayonnaise dressing, using the recipe below 
(p. 263). 

b. Prepare other mixtures, substituting in turn the following : 
I cottonseed, J olive oil 
^ cottonseed, f olive oil 
f cottonseed, ^ olive oil 
cottonseed oil (Wesson) 
260 



SALAD DRESSINGS 261 

peanut oil, f olive oil 
peanut oil 

| corn oil, f olive oil 
j corn oil, f olive oil 
corn oil 

196. a. Prepare mayonnaise dressing by the usual method, sub- 
stituting for the egg yolks, egg yolks which have been hard cooked. 
Compare with the dressing prepared from the uncooked egg yolks. 

b. Reduce the number of egg yolks \ and prepare mayon- 
naise by the usual recipe. Add to this a partly stiffened gelatin 
mixture of i c. water, i tsp. lemon juice, 2 tsp. gelatin. Beat the 
mixture thoroughly and place in the ice box for twenty-four hours. 

197. Prepare mayonnaise as in 196, b, but instead of adding 
gelatin mixture add i tbsp. boiling water and beat it thoroughly. 
Allow this to remain in ice box twenty-four hours. Compare with 
that in 196, b. 

Summarize the results of Expts. 194-197: 

a. From the standpoint of the chemical and physical proper- 
ties of the substances used and their behavior under the treatment to 
which they were subjected. 

b. With reference to the feasibility of making salad dress- 
ings from a wide variety of materials. 

The refined cottonseed, corn (maize), peanut, and olive oils of 
commerce are practically identical in food value. The substitution 
of one of the cheaper oils for olive oil in any of the following recipes 
will not alter the food value of the product. 

SALAD DRESSINGS 

French Dressing I 

Ingredients : 

% tsp. salt 2 tbsp. vinegar (cider) 

j tsp. pepper 4 tbsp. olive oil 

Method : 

Mix ingredients and stir until well blended. Some prefer the 
addition of a few drops of onion juice. French dressing is more easily 
prepared and more commonly used than any other dressing. 



262 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

French Dressing II 

Ingredients : H 

| tsp. salt i tbsp. vinegar 

% tsp. pepper 3 tbsp. olive oil 

Method: 
Proceed as above. 

Spanish Dressing 

Ingredients : 

i tsp. salt 2 tbsp. chili sauce 

| tsp. paprika i tbsp. vinegar 

i tbsp. horseradish 3 tbsp. olive oil 

Method: 
Mix all ingredients and blend thoroughly. Serve on green salad. 

Cream Dressing 

Ingredients : 

| tbsp. salt i egg slightly beaten 

^ tbsp. mustard 2\ tbsp. melted butter 

| tbsp. sugar f c. cream 

\ c. vinegar 
Method: 

Mix ingredients in order given, adding vinegar very slowly. Cook 
over boiling water, stirring constantly until mixture thickens, strain 
and cool. 

Boiled Dressing 

Ingredients : 

\ tbsp. salt \ tbsp. flour 

i tsp. mustard yolks 2 eggs 

cayenne i| tbsp. melted butter 

\ c. vinegar f c. milk 

Method: 

Mix dry ingredients, add yolks of eggs slightly beaten, butter, 
milk, and vinegar very slowly. Cook over boiling water, stirring 
constantly until mixture thickens. Strain and cool. 



SALAD DRESSINGS 



263 



Mayonnaise Dressing 



2 tbsp. lemon juice 
2 tbsp. vinegar 
1 1 c. olive oil 



Ingredients : 

i tsp. salt 
cayenne 
yolks 2 eggs 

Method: 

Mix dry ingredients, add egg yolks, and when well mixed, add \ tea- 
spoon vinegar. Add oil gradually, drop by drop at first, and stir con- 
stantly. As mixture thickens, thin with vinegar or lemon juice. 
Add oil and acid alternately until all is used, stirring or beating 
constantly. If oil is added too rapidly, dressing will have a curdled 
appearance. A smooth consistency may be restored by taking yolk 
of another egg and adding curdled mixture slowly to it. It is 
desirable to have bowl containing mixture placed hi a larger bowl 
of crushed ice. i teaspoon powdered sugar may be added to the 
dressing if the flavor is desired. 



FOOD VALUES 
Mayonnaise 













| 






6 


gi 




MATERIAL 


9 

t> 


i s 


g2 


si 


jjl 


gl 


i 


|af 


s^p 


| 




3 








^0 


o 


H 







?> 














o 




$ 








Egg yolks . . 


2 


45-6 


7.16 


16.18 




165 


.0165 


.082 


.449 


.0038 


Vinegar . . 


i tbsp. 


17-5 


i 


i 


i 


i 


.001 








Oil .... 


f c. 


135-3 




135-3 




1218 


IIQ3 








Mustard . . 


1 tsp. 


2 


















Salt . . ; . 


Jtsp. 




















Total . . . 


I C. 


200-4 


7.16 


151-48 




1383 


.1363 


.082 


449 


.0038 


i oo- Calorie 






















Portion . . 


i tbsp. 


14.48 


512 


4.41 




100 


.009 


.005 


.031 


.0003 



1 The small amounts of food substances in the vinegar are considered negligible. 



264 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 
French Dressing 





M 


H M 


gi 




L 


3$ 




So m 


lip 




MATERIAL 


M 


|l 


gg 


4 


|j 


i 


a 


ffi 


III 


il 

-o 












<5 




$ 


u 


fig 




Olive oil . . 


6 tbsp. 


68 




68 




612 


.0588 








Vinegar . . 


2 tbsp. 


38 


i 


i 


1 


1 


.003 








Salt .... 






















Pepper . . . 






















Paprika . . 






















Total . . . 


ic. 


106 




68 




612 


.0618 








i oo Calorie 






















Portion . 


ij tbsp. 


17-3 




ii 




100 


.0105 









Boiled Dressing 



Butter . . . 


i tsp. 


5-6 


05 


4.76 




43 


.0052 


.0012 


.0017 




Sugar . 


i tsp. 


5-7 






5-7 


22 


.0006 








Flour . . . 


i tsp. 


5-5 


.61 


.005 


4.11 


19 


.0003 


.0013 


.0094 


.0001 


Egg yolks . . 


2 


36.6 


5-74 


12.18 




133 


.0366 


.066 


35 


.003 


Cream . . . 


i tbsp. 


18.1 


39 


7-24 


54 


6 9 


.008 


.04 


.068 


.0001 


Vinegar . . 


2 tbsp. 








i 


1 


.003 








Total . . . 


9 tbsp. 


71-5 


6-79 


24.18 


10.35 


286 


.0537 


.1085 


.4291 


.0031 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion . . 


3 tbsp. 


24-95 


2-37 


3-6i 


3-61 


IOO 


.0177 


037 


.1501 


.0010 



REFERENCES 

Oils 

Cotton Seed and its Products. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Farmers' Bulletin 36. 

LEACH. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

MOORE. Experiments with Edible Oils. Arkansas Agricultural 
Experiment Station, Bulletin 78 (1903). 

1 The small amounts of food substances in the vinegar are considered negligible. 



' SALAD DRESSINGS 265 

SHERMAN. Food Products. 

SHERMAN. Organic Analysis. 

SIMMONS and MITCHELL. Edible Fats and Oils. 

TOLMAN and MUNSON. Olive Oil and its Substitutes. United 

States Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 77 (1902). 
WALKER. Coconuts and Coconut Oil. Philippine Journal of Science, 

Vol. i, pages 58-117 (1906). 
WILEY. Foods and their Adulterations. 



CHAPTER XIX 
DESSERTS 

Steamed Puddings 

General Rules. 

Mix as cake. Do not sift graham or entire wheat flour. Molds 
and covers should be well greased. The length of time for steaming 
depends on the size of pudding ; 1-6 hours. After steaming, remove 
cover and place in hot oven a minute to dry. Remove from tin and 
serve with a hard or liquid sauce. 



Steamed Indian Pudding 

Ingredients : 

| c. meal \ c. suet 

| c. flour \ c. molasses 

i tsp. salt \ c. sour milk 

i tsp. soda i c. raisins ' 

Method : 

Sift dry ingredients and add to the suet mixed with molasses and 
milk. Add the fruit, beat well, and steam. 



Date Pudding 

Ingredients : 

6 tbsp. butter | tsp. salt 

i c. molasses | tsp. clove 

i c. milk | tsp, allspice 

3^ c. flour | tsp. nutmeg 

i tsp. soda \ Ib. dates chopped 
266 



Ingredients : 



DESSERTS 
Fig Pudding 



Ib. suet 

Ib. figs chopped 
\ c. bread crumbs 



\ c. milk 
2 eggs 
i c. sugar 



2 6 7 



Ingredients : 



i c. suet 
i c. molasses 
i c. milk 
3 c. flour 
i tsp. soda 
i^ tsp. salt 



Hunters' Pudding 



^ tsp. cloves 
tsp. mace 
\ tsp. allspice 

1 tsp. cinnamon 
i^ c. raisins 

2 tbsp. flour 



Ingredients : 



Fruit Pudding (Plum) 



i Ib. currants 

i Ib. raisins 

\ Ib. citron 

\ Ib. orange peel 

\ Ib. lemon peel 

i Ib. brown sugar 

i Ib. suet 

i Ib. bread crumbs 



juice and rind i lemon 



i tsp. salt 

i c. flour 

4 tsp. cinnamon 

i tsp. nutmeg 

i tsp. allspice 

8 eggs 

i c. brandy 

i c. sherry 



Ingredients : 

\ c. butter 

i c. sugar 

c. milk 



Snow Balls 



2\ c. flour 

3! tsp. baking powder 

whites 4 eggs 



Individual molds. Serve with jam. 



268 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Pudding Sauces 
CLASSIFICATION : 

Cold. A butter foundation using granulated, brown, or confec- 
tioners' sugar. 

Hot. A foundation of water or fruit juice thickened with eggs, 
sago, arrowroot, cornstarch, or flour. 

Flavors : 

The following may be used as flavoring : 

fresh fruit vanilla 

fruit flavors cooking brandy 

spices 

SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS 

Hard Sauce 

Ingredients : 

% c. butter i| tsp. vanilla or 

i c. powdered sugar \ tsp. nutmeg 

Method: 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, beating until light and creamy. 
Add flavoring. Chill thoroughly before serving. 

Sterling Sauce 

Ingredients : 

c. butter i tsp. vanilla or lemon 

i c. brown sugar or soft maple sugar 4 tbsp. cream 

Lemon Sauce 

Ingredients : 

1 c. sugar 2 c. boiling water 

2 tbsp. flour i lemon, juice and rind 

2 tbsp. butter 
Method: 

Mix sugar and flour, add water slowly and boil 1 5 minutes, stirring 
occasionally. When ready to serve, add butter and lemon. 



DESSERTS 269 

Cream Sauce 

Ingredients : 

i egg \ c. thick cream 

1 c. powdered sugar \ c. milk 

\ tsp. vanilla 
Method: 

Beat white of egg until stiff; add well-beaten yolk and sugar. 
Dilute cream with milk and whip. Combine mixtures and flavor. 

Vanilla Sauce 

Ingredients : 

2 c. boiling water J c. butter 
% tsp. salt i c. sugar 
2 tbsp. cornstarch i egg 

i tsp. vanilla 
Method: 

Combine cornstarch and salt, mix with a little cold water, and add 
to the boiling water. Boil 5 minutes, stirring constantly. Cream 
the butter and sugar, add beaten egg and vanilla. Add to first mix- 
ture. Beat well. 

Sabayon Sauce 

Ingredients : 

grated rind and juice \ lemon \ c. sugar 

\ c. orange juice 2 eggs' 

Method: 

Mix lemon, orange juice, sugar, and yolks of eggs; stir vigorously 
over fire until it thickens, using a wire whisk or perforated spoon ; 
pour on to whites of eggs beaten stiff ; serve hot. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 

Frozen desserts may well be included more frequently in 
planning meals for the family dietary. They are refreshing, 
give a great opportunity for variety, and when made in the 
home are very economical. 



270 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

The selling price of commercial ice cream must be consider- 
ably higher than the cost of the ingredients because of the 
perishable nature of .the product and the uncertainty of 
the demand. Homemade ice cream is therefore usually 
much cheaper than commercial with the added advantage 
of greater certainty as to the quality of the materials 
used. 

Ice cream is a fairly concentrated food material, while an 
ice is essentially a frozen beverage and is chiefly valuable for 
the fruit juices it contains. Frozen mixtures are cooling and 
refreshing, and when made in the home are economical desserts. 

EXPERIMENTS 

198. Freezing mixtures : 

The usual proportions of ice and salt for freezing mixtures are as 
follows : 

a. i part ice, i part salt 

b. 2 parts ice, i part salt 

c. 3 parts ice, i part salt 

d. 4 parts ice, i part salt 

Make each of these mixtures and determine as in a physics labora- 
tory experiment the minimum temperature reached by each. 

199. a. Prepare one recipe each of lemon ice, plain ice cream, 
and caramel cream. 

b. Divide each recipe into four equal parts, A, B, C, D. 

c. Freeze as follows ; record temperature of freezing mix- 
tures throughout the experiment. Record temperature of frozen 
product. 

A. frozen by 198, a. 

B. frozen by 198, b. 

C. frozen by 198, c. 

D. frozen by 198, d. 

NOTE : In each case turn the freezer evenly and quickly until mixtures are 
frozen, or until you are satisfied mixtures will not freeze. 



DESSERTS 271 

d. Compare results. Note time of freezing, consistency of 
product, fineness of grain, flavor. 

200. Prepare one recipe of lemon ice. Divide into four parts ; 
use the freezing mixture most successful in 199, c, and freeze the ice 
as follows : 

a. Let freeze without stirring 

b. Stir occasionally 

c. Stir constantly very fast 

Compare results. What is the difference in consistency and to 
what due ? 

201. Use the fourth part of the lemon ice prepared in 200, 
and add to it a small amount of gelatin (see rule for lemon 
jelly and add corresponding amount of gelatin to liquid). Freeze 
ice by stirring constantly and compare the result with the ices 
previously made. Of what value is gelatin in a frozen mixture? 
Could whites of eggs be used ? 

NOTE : Would it be possible to use sugar in place of salt in a freezing mix- 
ture? 

202. Prepare i c. of lemon ice, put in a pint jar and freeze, using 
sugar instead of salt. Why does the sugar lower the temperature 
and cause the lemon ice to freeze ? 

NOTE : These experiments are very enlightening and interesting if glass 
containers for the frozen mixture are used. Preserving jars, 
cream jars, or jelly glasses serve the purpose. 

203. a. Prepare one " quantity " of ice cream. Divide into four 
equal parts, A, B, C, D. 

b. Freeze and pack A in a freezer having a wooden con- 
tainer for the ice. 

c. Freeze and pack B in a freezer having a galvanized iron 
container. 

d. Freeze and pack C in a glass jar. 

e. Freeze D in any freezer but pack in the fireless cooker. 
Allow all to stand 4 hours. Compare as to conductivity of containers. 



272 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Fillers in Ice Cream 

a. Kinds 

1. Starchy, wheat, rice, and cornstarch. 

2. Egg, used in French ice cream. 

b. Purposes 

1. Gives firmer body. 

2. Better standing-up qualities. 

c. Advantages 

1. Increases keeping qualities. 

2. Improves texture. 

d. Disadvantages 

1. Egg and starchy fillers have to be cooked. 

2. Cannot be kept in stock form. 

3. In excess gives soggy cream. 

4. In excess reduces the swell. 

Binders in Ice Cream 

a. Kinds 

1 . Gelatin animal origin. Dissolved in boiling water or milk 
and added at once. 

2. Gum tragacanth vegetable origin. Is replacing gelatin. 

b. Purpose to bind the mixture and improve texture. 

c. Advantages 

1. Prevents grainy texture. 

2. Keeps water from forming crystals. 

d. Disadvantages 

1. Slight inferiority of gelatin may be disguised by other in- 
gredients. 

2. Allows a warmer holding temperature, which permits more 
rapid deterioration. 

Ice Cream Powders 

Powdered gelatin and gum tragacanth to which is added 2-3 times 
its weight in sugar. 



DESSERTS 273 

Classification of Frozen Desserts 

1. Ices. Fruit juices, diluted and sweetened. 

a. Sherbet. Ice containing gelatin or egg whites. 

b. Milk sherbet. Fruit juices and milk, sweetened. 

c. Frappe. Partly frozen ices. 

d. Punch. Sherbet highly flavored with liquid, fruit juices, or 
spice. 

e. Souffle*. Sherbet containing the whole egg. 

2. Ice Cream 

a. Philadelphia. 1 Cream, flavored and sweetened. 

b. French. 1 Cream, custard, flavored and sweetened. 

3. Parfait. Cream, sugar, and egg whites with or without fruits, 
nuts, or flavorings. 

4. Mousse. Frozen whipped cream, sweetened and flavored. 

5. Pudding. Cream, custard, fruit, and nuts highly flavored. 

6. Lacto. Sour, skimmed, or whole milk, eggs and sugar, flavored. 

7. Junket. Frozen junket. 

ICE CREAMS AND ICES 
General Rules for Freezing. 

Scald the can, cover, and dasher of freezer before using them. 
Adjust the can carefully in the tub before packing. 
Pack freezer up to lower edge of cover, pour in mixture, readjust 
and pack to completely cover the can. 
For freezing, use : 

3 parts finely chopped ice 
i part rock salt 

For packing after freezing, use : 

4 parts ice 

i. part rock salt 

1 These terms are not always used in the sense here given. By some, "Philadel- 
phia ice cream" is understood to mean one whose ingredients have been cooked 
before freezing. 



274 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

For freezing cream, the crank should be turned slowly and steadily. 

When mixture is frozen, remove ice and salt from top of can, wipe 
cover and top, uncover and carefully remove dasher. Cover and 
put a stopper in cover. Drain off all the water which has collected 
in the tub during freezing; repack with ice and salt (4-1), cover 
with something heavy and allow to stand several hours to ripen. 



Vanilla Ice Cream 

Ingredients : 

i qt. cream f c. sugar 

i tsp. vanilla 
Method: 

Scald \ the cream, add the sugar, remainder of cream and vanilla. 
Cool and freeze according to directions. 



Chocolate Sauce 

Ingredients : 

i oz. chocolate i tbsp. butter 

i c. sugar ^ c. water 

i tsp. vanilla 
Method: 

Melt chocolate, add butter, sugar, water. Boil 15 minutes, cool, 
and add vanilla. 

Strawberry Ice Cream 

Ingredients : 

i qt. berries 2 c. sugar 

i qt. cream 
Method: 

Mash berries, add sugar and let stand i hour. Rub through a 
colander or fine strainer. Add the cream whipped. 



Frozen Custard I 

Ingredients : 

2 c. milk i tbsp. vanilla 

i c. sugar i pt. cream 

3 eggs 



DESSERTS 275 

Frozen Custard II 

Ingredients : 

2 c. scalded milk | tsp. salt 

1 c. sugar i qt. thin cream 
5 eggs 2 tbsp. vanilla 

Method: 

Make a custard of first four ingredients. Strain, cool, add cream 
and vanilla. Freeze. 

Caramel Ice Cream I 

Ingredients : 

2 c. milk 4 yolks 

i c. sugar ^ c. sugar, caramelized 

i c. flour i qt. cream 

Method: 

Cook first three ingredients 20 minutes in double boiler, add yolks 
and cook 2 minutes. Add caramel, strain, cool, and add cream. 



Caramel Ice Cream EC 

Ingredients : 

2 c. scalded milk i c. sugar 

j c. sugar J c. boiling water 

3 eggs i qt. thin cream 
| tsp. salt 2 tsp. vanilla 

Method: 

Make a custard of first four ingredients. Strain and cool. Cara- 
melize the i c. sugar and add the boiling water to it. Combine mix- 
tures, add cream and vanilla. Freeze. When half frozen, add i c. 
chopped nuts and raisins. 



Prune Ice Cream 

Ingredients : 

i c. prunes i c. sugar 

i^ c. water 4 tbsp. lemon juice 

1 1 c. cream (scalded) tsp. salt 



276 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Prepare the prunes for cooking and boil them in one and one half 
cups water until the pulp is soft. Rub the pulp through a strainer, 
add the sugar, lemon juice, salt, and scalded cream. 

Lacto Ice Cream 

Ingredients : 

i qt. sour milk i c. sugar 

} c. grape juice | c. lemon juice 

i egg 

Method: 

Beat the eggs in the grape juice until the liquid is somewhat 
thickened. Add this to the sour milk, to which has been added the 
sugar and lemon juice. 

Chocolate Ice Cream 

Ingredients : 

i c. water 2 oz. chocolate 

i c. sugar i qt. cream 

i tbsp. vanilla 
Method: 

Melt chocolate over hot water, add hot water and boil 5 minutes. 
Add salt and cool. Add cream and vanilla. 

Coffee Ice Cream 

Ingredients : 

| c. coffee f c. boiling water 

Method: 

Make boiled coffee, add to recipe of plain frozen custard. Omit 
vanilla. 

SHERBETS 

Milk Sherbet 

Ingredients : 

i qt. milk or cream 2 c. sugar 

\ c. lemon juice rind i lemon 



DESSERTS 277 



Method: 

Let lemon juice and sugar stand i hour. Add milk. 



Orange Sherbet 

Ingredients : 

i qt. milk or cream ij c. sugar 

3 tbsp. lemon juice i c. orange juice 



Pineapple Sherbet 

Ingredients : 

i qt. milk or cream if c. sugar 

5 tbsp. lemon juice f c. orange juice 

i pineapple, grated 



Combination Sherbet 

Ingredients : 

4 c. water pulp of 2 oranges 

2 c. sugar pulp of 2 lemons 

pulp of 2 bananas 



Ingredients : 



ICES 
Lemon Ice 



4 c. water 2 c. sugar 

f c. lemon juice 

Method: 

Make a sirup by boiling sugar and water 5 minutes, add lemon 
juice, cool, strain, and freeze. 



Orange Ice 

Ingredients : 

4 c. water grated rind of 2 oranges 

2 c. sugar 2 c. orange juice 

| c. lemon juice 



278 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Frozen Grape Juice 
Follow recipe for orange ice, using 2 c. grape juice instead of orange. 



Frozen Apricots or Peaches 

Ingredients : 

i qt. can fruit i^ c. sugar 

water 

Method: 

Drain fruit and cut in small pieces. To the sirup, add enough 
water to make 4 cups, and cook with sugar 5 minutes; strain, add 
fruit, cool, and freeze. 



Ingredients : 

4 c. water 
2 c. water 



Pineapple Ice 

juice 2 lemons 
juice 2 oranges 
pineapples, grated 



Ingredients : 

4 c. water 
1 1 c. sugar 

Ingredients : 

4 c. water 
i c. sugar 

Ingredients : 

4 c. water 



Ingredients : 

4 c. water 
1 1 c. sugar 



Strawberry Ice 



2 c. strawberry juice 
2 tbsp. lemon juice 



Raspberry Ice 



Currant Ice 



2 c. raspberry juice 
juice f lemon 



2 c. currant juice 



if c. sugar 
Currant and Raspberry 



f c. raspberry juice 
1 1 c. currant juice 



Ingredients : 

4 c. water 
2 c. sugar 

Ingredients : 

4 c. water 
i c. sugar 
f c. lemon juice 



DESSERTS 
Mint Ice 

Ginger Ice 



279 



juice 2 lemons 

leaves of 1 2 stalks of mint 



Ib. Canton ginger cut in 

pieces 

c. orange juice 



Ingredients : 

2 c. milk 
2 eggs 

6 tbsp. flour 
i c. sugar 
i tsp. vanilla 



PUDDINGS 
Frozen Pudding 



\ tsp. salt 

1 qt. cream 

2 tbsp. rum 

4 tbsp. madeira 
i tbsp. brandy 
i c. maraschino cherries 
Method: 

Cook flour and milk 20 minutes in a double boiler, stirring until it 
thickens. Pour over the eggs and sugar. Return to double boiler 
and cook a little longer, stirring constantly. Strain, cool, and add 
remaining ingredients. 



Ingredients : 

i c. sugar 
i c. chestnuts 
i c. boiling water 
\ Ib. candied fruit 



Nesselrode Pudding 



i c. almonds shelled 
i c. cream 

i c. canned pineapple 
yolks 3 eggs 



\ tbsp. vanilla 
2 tbsp. sherry 
Method: 

Shell chestnuts, remove from skin, boil until soft and press through 
a colander. Blanch, dry, and pound almonds. Add fruit cut in 



280 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

small pieces. Boil sugar and water 15 minutes, and pour over the 
well-beaten yolks. Cook in a double boiler until egg thickens. 
Cool, beating constantly. Add other ingredients. After freezing let 
ripen 4-5 hours. 

Sauce for Nesselrode Pudding 

Ingredients : 

3 egg yolks i^ c. whipped cream 

3 tbsp. powdered sugar ^ tsp. vanilla 

Method: 

Beat eggs until thick, add sugar and beat again. Stir in a double 
boiler until it thickens slightly. Pour into a bowl and beat until 
creamy. Add flavoring and cream ; i tbsp. brandy or wine may be 
added. 

Baked Alaska 

Turn i qt. brick Vanilla Ice Cream out on an oblong sponge cake. 
Cover with a meringue made of 4 whites of eggs. Brown in a very 
hot oven. Place the cake on a paper, on a board, before turning out 
the ice cream. 

Ice Cream Molds 

Freeze the cream very hard. Pack solidly into the mold, cover 
and wrap with several thicknesses of paper. Tie with strong cord 
and pack. 

MOUSSES 

Coffee Mousse 

Ingredients : 

i pt. cream i c. black coffee 

% c. powdered sugar i tsp. salt 

Method: 

Whip the cream, add sugar and coffee, turn mixture into a mold, 
pack in ice and salt, and let stand five hours. 



DESSERTS 281 

Chocolate Mousse 
Substitute 4 oz. melted chocolate for coffee in Coffee Mousse. 

Strawberry Mousse 
Substitute 2 c. mashed strawberries for coffee. 

Fruit Mousses 

Mix 2 c. of any fruit pulp, with powdered sugar to sweeten, with 
the whip from one pint cream. A small amount of lemon juice 
brings out the flavor of other fruits. 

Grape Juice Mousse 

Substitute i c. grape juice for coffee in the above direction for 
Coffee Mousse. 

PARFAITS 

Silver Parfait 

Ingredients : 

i c. sugar 3 egg whites 

i c. water i pt. cream 

flavoring 
Method: 

Boil sugar and water until it threads. Pour on to the beaten whites 
of eggs, add whip from cream, flavoring, pack in ice and salt, and 
let stand 4 hours. 



Golden Parfait 

Ingredients : 

i c. sugar 6 egg yolks 

c. water i pt. cream 



282 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



SCORE CARDS 

Sherbets and Ices 

Texture 20 

Consistency (10) 

Smoothness (10) 

Color 5 

Degree of freezing 10 

Freedom from water crystals 5 

Flavors -. 60 

Retained flavor (15) 

Imperceptibility of binder (35) 

Delicacy (10) 

100 



Philadelphia Ice Cream 

Texture 20 

Color 5 

Flavor 60 

Degree of freezing 15 

100 

Custard Ice Cream 

Texture 20 

Consistency (5) 

Smoothness (10) 

Condition of solid ingredients (5) 

Color 5 

Flavor 60 

Delicacy (30) 

Imperceptibility of filler (30) 

Degree of freezing 15 

100 



DESSERTS 



283 



FOOD VALUES 
Vanilla Ice Cream 









|| 


. t/i 


8 






*L 


sl 




MATERIAL 


1 


1 




< S 


w 8 


g| 





$%$ 


S 3 i 


si 




w 





& 


fa o 




H^ 


u 




g^^ 


fH 












u 




$ 


- 


PnU 




Cream . . . 


I C. 


246.1 


5-41 


98.44 


7-38 


937 


.125 


.65 


93 


.0009 


Sugar . . . 


3 tbsp. 


38.4 






38.4 


153 


.0056 








Vanilla . . . 


if tsp. 


3-3 










.0023 








Total, cooked 


ifc. 


270.4 


5-4i 


98.44 


45.78 


1090 


.1329 


65 


93 


.0009 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion . . 


2 tbsp. 


24.6 


49 


8-95 


4.16 


100 


.012 


059 


.084 


.0001 



Milk Sherbet 



Sugar . . . 


6 tbsp. 


78.6 






78.6 


314 


.0112 








Milk . . . 


ic. 


iiS-7 


3-82 


4.63 


5-79 


80 


.025 


.19 


.24 


.0002 


Cream . . . 


|c. 


II3-7 


2-5 


45-48 


3-41 


433 


.0625 


3 


43 


.0004 


Lemon juice . 


3 tbsp. 


39-9 






3-91 


16 


.0167 


.012 


.009 




Total . . . 


lie. 


347-9 


6.32 


50.11 


91.71 


843 


II54 


.502 


.679 


.0006 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion . . 


2 tbsp. 


41.26 


4.89 


5-94 


10.88 


IOO 


.0136 


.06 


.081 


.0001 



REFERENCES 
Ice Cream 

ALEXANDER. Effect of Gelatin in IceC ream. Zeitschrift fur Chemie 
und Industrie der Kolloide, vol. 5, pages 101-103 (1909). 

SHERMAN. Food Products. 

WASHBURN. Principles and Practice of Ice-Cream Making. Ver- 
mont Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 155. 

WILEY. Ice Cream. United States Public Health Service, Hygienic 
Laboratory, Bulletin 56, pages 249-312 (1909). 



CHAPTER XX 
SUGAR AND CANDY 

CANE SUGAR is found in the fruits and juices of many plants 
but the principal source is the sugar cane and the sugar beet. 
Cane sugar is made, however, from the maple and palm trees. 
By-products of the sugar made from cane are brown sugar and 
molasses. Corn sirup is made from corn and is lighter in color 
than molasses. It cannot be made to take the hard ball stage 
as molasses will, hence is not suitable for pulled candies or 
butterscotch, but for softer creams or stirred candies it is very 
acceptable. Corn sirup may be used for taffy by the addition 
of granulated sugar. Maple sirup is made from the sap of 
the maple tree and is essentially an American product. Maple 
sugar is made from the maple sirup and is sold as commonly 
as the sirup. Honey is made from the sugar of flowers by bees, 
and that obtained from clover is considered the finest. Honey 
made early in the summer is sweeter than that made later, 
when a bitter flavor (attributed to goldenrod) is apt to be im- 
parted. 

(See Sherman's Food Products, pages 397-444, for descrip- 
tion of sugar industries, sirups, and confectionery.) 

The sole nutritive function of the sugars is to serve as fuel, 
and the amount which can wisely be eaten is limited because of 
its tendency to irritate the stomach either directly or through 
fermentation. 

284 



SUGAR AND CANDY 285 

EXPERIMENTS 
Sugar 

Sirups of use in frozen desserts and candy making. 

Various degrees of densities of sirups are recognized with the ther- 
mometer or by testing in cold water for the soft ball, hard ball, crack, 
hard crack, and caramel stage. 

204. Boil 2 c. sugar in f c. water. Note changes in boiling point 
as the solution becomes more condensed. When the thermometer 
registers various degrees, remove sirup from burner and test in cold 
water for the corresponding stage. 

"softball," . . . . F. . . C. 

" hard ball," . . . . F. . . C. 

"crack," F. . . C. 

"hardback," . . . F. . . C. 

" barley," F. . . C. 

"caramel," . . . . F. . . C. 

a. Note the density of each stage, together with its cor- 
responding temperature. 

b. Prepare a candy at each stage. 

c. What kinds of candy is each suitable for ? 

d. In what ways could sirups prepared at the various tem- 
peratures be used ? 

e. What sirup is best for : 

ice? 

sherbet ? 
frappe ? 

205. Repeat Expt. 204, using the following : 

a. Powdered sugar 

b. Confectioners' sugar 

c. Brown sugar 

d. Molasses 

e. Maple sugar 

/. What are the results? Conclusions? 



286 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

206. Boil 2 c. sugar in | c. water to which tsp. cream of tartar 
has been added. Carry through the various stages. 

Turn out part of the sirup at each stage and see if you can beat or 
pull it. 

207. a. Repeat Expt. 206, using vinegar (i tbsp.) and lemon 
juice (2 tbsp.). Compare results with 204 and 206. 

b. Of what use are cream of tartar, vinegar, or lemon 
juice ? 

208. Prepare molasses candy, boiling it to the hard crack stage. 
Just before turning sirup out to cool, add $ tsp. soda. Note result 
in sirup and in candy when pulled. 

Fondant 

Ingredients : 

2 c. granulated sugar | c. cold water 

Method: 

Mix the sugar and water together in a saucepan. Place saucepan 
over heat and stir the contents with a wooden spoon until the sugar 
is dissolved. Allow the sirup* to boil gently without further stirring 
until the " soft ball " stage is reached. Turn sirup on to a greased 
platter and let it remain undisturbed until a thin film has formed 
over the surface. When this has formed, with a wooden spoon stir 
the sirup until it becomes white and creamy. If sufficiently stiff 
turn the fondant on to. a marble or kneading board and make per- 
fectly smooth. The fondant will work up better if allowed to re- 
main in the ice box overnight, but if necessary, it can be made up 
at once. 

Precautions : 

1. Scald the saucepan before using for boiling fondant, lest any 
odor of previous cooking appear in the fondant. 

2. Do not stir the sirup after the sugar is melted. (Why?) 

3. Do not allow the sirup to boil vigorously. If the sirup boils 
vigorously, crystals of sugar will be deposited in thick masses on the 
sides of the saucepan and are likely to mix with the sirup and appear 



SUGAR AND CANDY 287 

in the final product. A damp cheesecloth on a fork used to remove 
the crystals as fast as formed on the sides of the saucepan will help to 
prevent crystals from mixing with the sirup. 

4. When testing the sirup always remove the saucepan from the 
burner so that if the proper stage is jeached it will not proceed to the 
" hard ball " stage and so become too crystalline. 

5. Have the platter ready greased before the sirup is to be poured 
out. 

6. Do not scrape the last of the sirup from the pan, as it will 
appear as a hard sugary mass in the fondant. 

7. Use a minimum amount of butter with which to grease the 
platter. 

8. Wash the hands with cold water just before kneading the 
fondant. 

9. Cover the fondant with paraffin paper when putting it away to 
stand overnight. 

10. If fondant is quite soft when done, do not leave it in the ice 
box a cupboard is better but if quite stiff put it in the ice box 
to stand overnight and it will be easier to handle. 

Fondant may be used as follows : 

Creams Filling 

Drops Dates 

Walnuts Cherries 

Balls Chocolate peppermints 

Covering 

Small fruits Eclairs 

Nuts Cake 

Fruit sections Hot cross buns 

pineapple 

orange 

To make Cream Drops 

i. Divide the fondant into as many parts as you wish to make 
colors. 



288 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

2. Have ready the following : 

double boiler color 

spatula flavoring 

teaspoon sheet of paraffin paper 

toothpicks spread on a perfectly 

saucepan of boiling water flat surface 

3. Place the fondant in the double boiler and allow it to heat over 
hot water until soft. With the toothpick take up a tiny bit of color 
and stir it through the softened fondant. If sufficient color has not 
been added, repeat, but remember that a little color on the toothpick 
goes a long way in the fondant. 

4. Now add the flavoring, using precaution that too much is not 
added. 

5. If the fondant is still quite thick, add a few drops of boiling 
water and stir the whole mixture with the spatula l only enough to 
mix the color, flavor, and water, as too much will make it " grainy." 

6. Bring the double boiler to the side of the paraffin paper and, 
using the teaspoon, allow the fondant to drop from the tip of the 
spoon on to the paper. Hold the spoon in this one position so that 
the fondant will be directed into the center of the drop and the result 
will be a circular candy. 

NOTES : i. If the fondant piles up on the spoon, not enough hot water was 
added. 

2. If the drops are coarse-grained or rough, the fondant has been 

overcooked and over-stirred. This can sometimes be 
remedied by complete recooking as though using cane sugar. 

3. If white spots appear in the drops on standing, the fondant was 

stirred in the double boiler too much. These are not abso- 
lutely undesirable, but the creams will be hard or brittle. 
They are not perfect cream drops. 

4. The candies dropped on the paper if irregular or too thick may 

be remelted and redropped once, but more than that is 
likely to cause coarse-grained candies. 

5. Do not mix the candies to be done over with first mixture in the 

double boiler, but wait until that is used. 

1 The spatula is the most convenient utensil for this purpose. The fondant 
clings to any utensil used, but is more easily removed without waste from the 
spatula than from a spoon. 



SUGAR AND CANDY 289 

To make Walnut Creams: 

1. Divide the fondant into portions by measuring with the tea- 
spoon, i tsp. to each portion. 

2. Wash and dry the walnuts, using unbroken halves. 

3. Shape the fondant by rolling it lightly between the palms of 
the hands. 

4. Place a walnut meat on one side of the ball and arrange the 
second in a corresponding position on the other side. Press together 
slightly and the fondant will form a uniform mass between the nut 
meats. The fondant should protrude very slightly beyond the nuts. 

5. Pecans or almonds may be used in place of walnuts. 

To make Chocolate Peppermints: 

Prepare cream drops as in making Cream Drops, using peppermint 
flavoring but no color. To cover the creams, chocolate for the pur- 
pose is on the market, but unsweetened chocolate may be used. The 
latter will not have a glaze, but a little butter melted with the choco- 
late gives a slight glaze. 

Melt the chocolate over hot water, place the cream drops in the 
warm chocolate, and remove when well coated by using a fork. Place 
on a paraffin paper to dry. 

Care must be taken in removing from the chocolate and placing 
the creams on the paraffin, or the chocolate becomes unevenly dis- 
tributed on the creams. 

Fondant used as Covering: 

1 . When fondant is used as a covering for fruits, melt it in a double 
boiler and immerse the fruits in it. Remove to a paraffin paper to 
dry. 

2. When fondant is used as a covering for small cakes, have slightly 
more liquid than for fruits. Use cake one day old so that a fork 
can be held in it. 

Put the fork in the bottom of the cake and carefully lower it until 
the fondant comes well up on the sides of the cake. Lift the 
cake out and place, right side up, on a paraffin to dry. A little 
practice will probably be required before a perfect result will be 
obtained. 

IT 



290 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Decorate the cakes with tiny pieces of angelica, citron, candied 
fruit, nuts, rose leaves, violet leaves, or candy flowers. 

3. To cover large cakes or hot cross buns with fondant, melt it 
in a double boiler and arrange it on the cake as desired, using a spoon 
and spatula while it is still warm. This is the easiest process of any 
of the ways of using fondant and requires very little skill. 



Ingredients : 



CANDY 
Chocolate Fudge 



2 c. sugar 
| c. milk 
T V tsp. salt 



2 oz. chocolate 
i tbsp. butter 
i tsp. vanilla 



Method: 

Melt chocolate and butter, add sugar and milk and stir until sugar 
dissolves. Cook without stirring until it forms a soft ball when 
dropped in cold water. Let stand in cold water until cool. Add 
vanilla and beat until it can be handled. Mold, and place in buttered 
pan. 



Penoche 

Ingredients : 

i c. brown sugar 
i c. granulated sugar 
\ c. milk or cream 

^ tsp. salt 
Method: 

Proceed as for chocolate fudge. 



i tbsp. butter 
i c. nut meats 
i tsp. vanilla 



Ingredients : 

1 Ib. maple sugar 

2 tbsp. butter 



Maple Fudge 



tsp. salt 



i c. milk 
jJg- tsp. soda 



SUGAR AND CANDY 



291 



Method: 

Melt butter and sugar, add soda and bring to boiling point. Add 
milk slowly, stirring constantly ; add salt. Proceed as for chocolate 
fudge. 



Ingredients: 



3 c. sugar 
i c. cream 



Karo Cream Fudge 



i tbsp. lemon juice 



c. Karo 
I lb. figs 



Ingredients: 



3 c. sugar 
i c. cream 



Walnut Cream Fudge 



2 c. Karo 
i c. walnuts 



i tsp. vanilla 



Victoria Fudge 

Ingredients: 

2 c. sugar | c. butter 

f c. milk i c. coconut 

\ c. each cherries, figs, and pineapples 

Prepare as fudge fruit flavoring added when cold. 



Ingredients : 

2 c. brown sugar 



Claire Creams 



i c. cream 



i c. nuts 

i c. candied cherries 



i lb. marshmallows 



Method: 

Boil cream and sugar as fudge. Beat until creamy and add | c. 
nut meats and pour in pan. Melt marshmallows, stirring constantly, 
and add nuts and cherries. Pour over top of fudge. 



292 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Fluff 

Ingredients : 

2 c. sugar white i egg 
| c. water -fa tsp. salt 

\ c. nut meats or candied cherries 
Method: 

Cook sugar and water to thread stage and pour slowly on beaten 
white of egg. Add nuts and beat until stiff enough to hold shape 
when dropped from tip of a teaspoon on paraffin paper or buttered 
plates. 

Turkish Nougat 

Ingredients : 

3 c. sugar 2 tbsp. corn sirup 
i c. Karo or other corn sirup whites 3 eggs 

i c. water i c. nut meats 

Method: 

Boil sugar, water, and i c. corn sirup to hard crack. Have eggs 
beaten stiff and fold into them 2 tbsp. sirup. Beat eggs into boiled 
mixture and pour on to oiled paper. 

Honey Puffs 

Ingredients : 

3 c. sugar i c. nuts i c. cream 

c. honey i c. candied pineapple white i egg 

Method: 

Boil sugar and cream until it will almost spin a thread. Add \ c. 
honey and cook to " soft ball " stage. Take from fire and add i 
beaten white of egg. Beat i minute and add i c. each chopped nuts 
and candied pineapple. Beat until creamy, and form into balls. 
Place on paraffin paper. 

Molasses Candy 

Ingredients : 

3 c. brown sugar i tbsp. butter 

f c. molasses \ tsp. soda 

i c. water 2 tbsp. vanilla 



SUGAR AND CANDY 293 

Method: 

Cook all but soda and vanilla until mixture cracks when dropped 
into cold water. Beat in soda and vanilla and pour on a buttered 
plate. Draw edges in toward center until cold enough to handle; 
pull until light and smooth. Cut into inch pieces with sharp scissors. 

Peanut Brittle 

Ingredients : 

i c. sugar ^-i c. peanuts 

(i qt. unshelled) 
Method: 

Melt sugar in iron pan until a light brown sirup, remove imme- 
diately, add nuts, chopped if desired, spread on an inverted tin plate 
and mark into squares when cool. 

Butterscotch 

Ingredients : 

1 c. sugar i c. Karo sirup 

1-4 tbsp. butter 
Method: 

Boil without stirring until brittle when dropped in cold water. 
Pour into shallow buttered pan and when cool mark into squares. 

Glace for Nuts and Fruits 

Ingredients : 

2 c. sugar i c. water 

c. vinegar 
Method: 

Boil sugar and water to the thread stage. Add vinegar and 
boil until color changes. Keep over boiling water while dipping. 
Skin of orange sections should not be broken. Cherries and grapes 
on stems should be hung on wires. 

Candied Orange Peel 

Wipe 4 oranges and remove peel in quarters. Put peel in sauce- 
pan, cover with cold water, bring to boiling point and then simmer 
until soft. Drain and scrape off | of the white portion. Cut in 



294 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

thin strips. Boil i c. sugar and \ c. water until it spins a thread. 
Cook strips in the sirup 5 minutes. Drain. Roll in granulated sugar. 

Salted Almonds I 

Blanch Jordan almonds by allowing them to stand in boiling water 
until it loosens the skins. Drain, place in a shallow pan, sprinkle 
with salt and small pieces of butter. Brown in a pan in broiling 
oven, stirring frequently. Drain on paper. 

Salted Almonds II 

Ingredients : 

i pt. water i c. almonds 

\ c. salt 2 tbsp. butter or olive oil 

Method: 

Blanch almonds as described above. Boil salt and water, add 
almonds and cook 8 minutes. Drain and place them in a baking 
pan, dot over with butter and bake until a delicate brown, stirring 
frequently. Drain on brown paper. 

REFERENCES 
Sugar 

ABEL. Sugar and Its Value as Food. United States Agriculture 
Department, Farmers' Bulletin No. 535 (1913). 

BLAKEY. The United States Sugar Beet Industry. 

BROWNE. Handbook of Sugar Analysis. 

DEERR. Cane Sugar Manufacture. 

DEERR. Sugar and the Sugar Cane. 

ELLIS. An Introduction to the History of Sugar as a Commodity. 

GEERLING. The World's Cane Sugar Industry, Past and Present. 

SHERMAN. Food Products. 

SNELL. Maple Sap Products and the Canadian Standards. Re- 
printed from the Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry 
(1914). 

THORPE. Outlines of Industrial Chemistry. 

WILEY. Foods and their Adulteration. 



Ingredients : 

5 c. coffee 
2 eggs 



CHAPTER XXI 
RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 1 

BEVERAGES 
Boiled Coffee 



i c. cold water 



2 c. cold water 

8 qts. boiling water 



Ingredients : 



1 c. cocoa 

2 c. sugar 



Reception Cocoa 



i pt. water 



8 qts. milk 

i qt. boiling water 



Ingredients : 
| c. tea 



Tea 



10 qts. boiling water 



Ingredients : 



4 c. sugar 
i qt. water 



Lemonade 



8 qts. water 
3 doz. lemons 



1 As a rule only the Ingredients will be given in this chapter since the same Methods 
may be followed as in the preceding chapters. 

295 



296 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Fruit Punch 

Ingredients : 

2 Ibs. sugar i qt. water 

8 lemons i pt. grapejuice or tea 

6 oranges i pt. canned pineapple 

6 qts. water juice, or other fruit 

i pt. shredded pineapple juice 

i pt. strawberries or cherries 

FRUITS 

Apple Sauce 

Ingredients : 

50 large apples 3-4 qts. water 

9 c. sugar juice 2 lemons (or 2 

grated nutmegs) 

Stewed Apricots 

Ingredients : 

4 Ibs. dried apricots 4 qts. cold water 

4 c. sugar 



Stewed Prunes 

Ingredients : 

4 Ibs. prunes 4 c. sugar 

4 qts. cold water juice i orange 

juice i lemon 



Baked Rhubarb 

Ingredients : 

1 6 Ibs. rhubarb 4 qts. sugar 

Cranberry Jelly 

Ingredients : 

4 qts. cranberries "8 c. sugar 

i qt. water 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 297 

Cranberry Sauce 

Ingredients : 

4! qts. berries if qts. water 

6 c. sugar 



Combination of Fruits 

Ingredients : Sirup : 

1 doz. oranges i can Hawaiian pineapple [ 2 c. sugar 
3 Ibs. grapes 6 grapefruit | 4 c. water 

2 baskets strawberries 6 bananas I juice i lemon 



CEREALS 

Cream of Wheat 

Ingredients : 

J Ib. cream of wheat 5 tbsp. salt 

4^ qts. water 



Oatmeal 

Ingredients : 

i Ib. oatmeal 5 tbsp. salt 

4 qts. boiling water 



Boiled Rice 

Ingredients : 

5 c. rice i c. salt 

7 qts. vater 



Steamed Aice 

Ingredients : 

5 c. rice i c. salt 

if qts. water 



298 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Asparagus 

Cabbage 

Carrots 

Cauliflower 

Celery 

Onions 

Potatoes 

Turnips 



VEGETABLES 




Creamed 




8 bunches 


4 qts. white sauce II 


10 Ibs. 


3 qts, white sauce II 


12 Ibs. 


3 qts. white sauce II 


6-8 


3 qts. white sauce II 


8 qts. cubed 


3 qts. white sauce II 


i pk. 


3 qts. white sauce II 


8 qts. cubed 


4 qts. white sauce II 


12 Ibs. 


3 qts. white sauce II 



Ingredients : 

i pk. potatoes 
i qt. milk 



Mashed Potatoes 



i c. butter 
5 tbsp. salt 



Ingredients : 

50 potatoes 
i c. hot milk 



Stuffed Baked Potatoes 



i c. butter 



1 1 tbsp. salt 
2 tsp. pepper 



Ingredients : 

5 Ibs. potatoes 
4 eggs 
\ c. butter 
juice i onion 



Potato Croquettes 



\ tsp. cayenne 
1 1 tbsp. salt 
\ c. chopped parsley 
c. milk 



Ingredients : 

6 qts. sliced potatoes 
2 qts. hot milk 
c. flour 



Scalloped Potatoes 



1 1 c. butter 
3 tbsp. salt 
juice i lemon 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



299 



Sweet Potato Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

5 Ibs. sweet potatoes c. parsley 

5 eggs i tsp. salt 

\ c. butter \ tsp. cayenne 



Ingredients : 

i pks. sweet potatoes 

| c. butter 

salt 



Glazed Sweet Potatoes 



Ingredients : 

6 No. 2 cans corn 
3 qts. milk 
2 tbsp. salt 
5 tbsp. sugar 



Corn Pudding 



Ingredients : 

25 large peppers 
3 qts. chopped meat 
salt 



\ tsp. pepper 
Stuffed Peppers 



Ingredients : 

8 qts. tomatoes 
i c. butter 
\ c. sugar 

Ingredients : 

50 tomatoes 
3^ tbsp. salt 
i tsp. pepper 
i c. butter 



Stewed Tomatoes 



Baked Tomatoes 



3 c. sugar 
i| c. water 
tsp. pepper 



1 2 eggs beaten sepa- 
rately 

3 qts. bread crumbs 
J c. butter 



2 qts. bread crumbs 
juice i large onion 
pepper 



4 tbsp. salt 
| tsp. cayenne 
4 c. bread crumbs 



\ c. sugar 
\ c. parsley 
juice 2 onions 
2 qts. bread crumbs 



300 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

SOUPS 

Cream Soup Celery 

Ingredients : 

8 qts. celery, cubed 7 qts. scalded milk 

6 qts. boiling water 2 c. butter 

, 2 onions 2\ c. flour 

pepper, cayenne 5 tbsp. salt 

Cream Soup Corn 

Ingredients : 

8 cans corn 7 qts. scalded milk 

3 qts. boiling water 2 c. butter 
2 onions i\ c. flour 
pepper, cayenne 5 tbsp. salt 

Cream Soup Tomato 

Ingredients : 

6 qts. canned tomatoes 6 qts. scalded milk 

6 bay leaves i| c. butter 

1 tsp. peppercorns i| c. flour 

2 onions i tbsp. baking soda 
c. sugar salt 

pepper 

Cream Soup Potato 

Ingredients : 

8 Ibs. potatoes 2 c. butter 

4 onions i c. flour 
2 qts. boiling water 6 tbsp. salt 

c. chopped parsley i tbsp. celery salt 

10 qts. scalded milk f tsp. cayenne 

Brown Stock Soup 

Ingredients : 

10 Ibs. beef and bone 8 qts. water 

i tsp. peppercorns 12 cloves 

4 bay leaves parsley 

i c. each carrots, onion, celery, turnip 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



3 OI 



Ingredients : 

4 qts. stock 

2 tbsp. allspice berries 

4 bay leaves 

i large onion 



Mongole Soup 



4 qts. tomatoes 

24 cloves 

parsley 

i tsp. celery seed 



Ingredients : 

6 qts. stock 
i c. peppers 
salt 



Creole 



cayenne 



4 qts. tomatoes 
| c. onion 
pepper 



Sauce with Mongole Soup 

Ingredients : 

f c. butter f c. flour 

i tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 2 tbsp. vinegar 



Ingred'ients : 

i^ c. butter 
\ c. horseradish 



Sauce with Creole Soup 



i c. macaroni rings 



if c. flour 

2 tbsp. vinegar 



Ingredients : 

2 shins beef 

10 qts. cold water 

6 qts. boiling water 

2 c. carrots 

2 c. cabbage 

2 celery roots 

4 bay leaves 



Vegetable Soup 



2 c. potatoes cooked 

separately 
2 qts. tomatoes 
\ tsp. pepper 
juice 2 onions 
4 tbsp. chopped parsley 
4 tbsp. salt 



302 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 

6 qts. beef stock 

| Ib. noodles 

i c. rice or barley 



Noodle Soup 



Ingredients : 

6 qts. beef stock 
4 tbsp. salt 

Ingredients : 

i knuckle of veal 
6 qts. cold water 
i bunch of herbs 

3 tbsp. parsley 

4 qts. milk 



6 qts. boiling water 
Macaroni Soup 



Rice Soup 



MEATS 



Mutton Stew 

Ingredients : 

10 Ibs. shoulder of mutton 
6 qts. boiling water 

2 onions 

3 c. turnips 
3 c. carrots 

2 qts. boiling water 



Ingredients : 

13 Ibs. chuck 

8 qts. boiling water 

6 c. turnips 

6 c. carrots 

2 qts. boiling water 



c. butter 



Beef Stew 



| tsp. cayenne 
4 tbsp. parsley 
4 tbsp. salt 



f Ib. macaroni 

6 qts. boiling water 



i Ib. rice 

i\ qts. boiling water 

4 tbsp. salt 

juice 2 onions 

| tsp. pepper 



4 c. flour 
4 tsp. salt 
i tsp. pepper 
\ c. chopped parsley 
3 Ibs. potatoes - 
cooked separately 



2 tbsp. salt 
\ c. beef drippings 
2 onions 

7^ Ibs. potatoes 
cooked separately 



i tsp. pepper 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



303 



Scotch Stew 

Ingredients : 

8 Ibs. mutton from neck 
8 qts. boiling water 
i Ib. barley 
i c. carrots 
i c. turnips 

1 c. celery 

Scalloped Meat 

Ingredients: 

2\ Ibs. cooked meat ground 
juice 2 onions 
\ c. parsley 

2 c. bread crumbs 
2 tsp. salt 

J tsp. pepper 



i c. onion 

1 c. flour 

\ c. drippings 

2 tbsp. salt 

i tsp. pepper 
4 tbsp. parsley 



6 Ibs. raw potatoes 
cooked and mashed 
\ c. butter 
J qt. milk 
i tbsp. salt 



Ingredients : 

\ c. drippings 
i c. flour 



Ingredients : 

12 Ibs. veal 

2 Ibs. salt pork 

3 tbsp. salt 

i tsp. pepper 



Gravy 



Veal Loaf 



i^ qts. stock 
i tsp. salt 



6 eggs 

\ c. melted butter 
3 c. crumbs 
milk to moisten 



Ingredients : 

3 qts. pea beans 
2 Ibs. salt pork 

4 tbsp. salt 

i tbsp. mustard 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES 
Baked Beans 



i c. molasses 

1 tsp. pepper 

2 onions 

4 tbsp. brown sugar 



304 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Cream Toast 

toast 



Ingredients : 

4 qts. medium white sauce 



Ingredients : 

2 doz. eggs 
i tbsp. salt 



German Toast 



toast 



\ c. sugar 
1 1 qts. milk 



Ingredients : 

50 hard-cooked eggs 
1 1 c. minced ham 
c. butter 



Stuffed Eggs 



tsp. salt 



3 tbsp. oil 
| tsp. cayenne 
i^ tsp. mustard 



Ingredients : 

2 Ibs. macaroni 
\ c. salt 
cayenne 



Macaroni and Cheese 



2 qts. medium white 

sauce 
i Ib. grated cheese 



Ingredients : 

6 c. rice 



Rice with Tomato Sauce 

boiling, salted water 



Tomato Sauce for Rice or Macaroni 

Ingredients : 

i No. 10 can tomatoes 2 c. flour 

c. sugar 2 qts. soup stock or 

1 tbsp. salt water 

3 bay leaves i tsp. peppercorns 

2 c. fat tsp. cloves 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



305 



Ingredients : 

i qt. rice 
c. salt 
7 qts. water 



Creamed Rice 



i qt. milk 
3 tbsp. sugar 
^ doz. eggs 



Ingredients : 

i qt. rice 
3 tbsp. salt 
i c. milk 



Rice Croquettes 



parsley 



J c. butter 
6 eggs 
cayenne 



Ingredients : 

3 Ibs. codfish 



FISH 
Creamed Codfish 

4 qts. medium white sauce 
4 qts. cold water 



Ingredients .* 

4 qts. cold flaked fish 
i qt. buttered crumbs 



Scalloped Fish 



3 qts. medium white sauce 
i onion and 6 bay leaves 
scalded in the milk 



Ingredients : 

5 cans salmon 
f c. butter 
i c. flour 
5 c. milk 



6 eggs 
x 



Salmon Cutlets 



5 tsp. salt 
| tsp. cayenne 
5 tbsp. parsley 
juice 2 lemons 



For dipping 



sifted crumbs 



6 tbsp. water 



306 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 
Baked Shad with Tomato Sauce 



Ingredients : 

10 shad 

f Ib. salt pork 
\ Ib. butter 

Ingredients : 

4 qts. tomatoes 
4 bay leaves 
i onion 

Ingredients : 

1 1 Ibs. codfish 
6 Ibs. potatoes 
c. butter 

Ingredients: 

6 qts. oysters 

i c. oyster liquor 

f c. milk 



Sauce 



2 tsp. salt 
i tsp. pepper 
i c. flour 



4 tsp. salt 
c. butter 
i c. flour 



Codfish Balls 



4 eggs 

| tsp. cayenne 

salt if needed 



Scalloped Oysters 



2 qts. buttered crumbs 

salt 

pepper 



FLOUR MIXTURES 



Ingredients: > 

i\ qts. water 

10 tbsp. lard or butter 

3 f tbsp. sugar 



Bread 



3 tbsp. salt 

2 \ yeast cakes 

2 c. lukewarm water 



about 8 qts. flour 



Ingredients : 

6 c. scalded milk 
6 c. water 
4 tbsp. salt 
f c. butter 
1 1 c. molasses 



Graham Bread 



3 yeast cakes 
3 c. warm water 
6 c. flour 

graham or entire wheat 
flour to knead 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



307 



Nut Bread 
3 qts. chopped nuts added after first rising 



Ingredients : 

if qts. milk 
f c. butter 
\ c. lard 
7 qts. flour 



Rolls 



2 tbsp. salt 
\ c. sugar 

i \ yeast cakes 

3 c. lukewarm water 



Steamed Brown Bread 

Ingredients : 

i qt. rye meal ij tbsp. soda 

i qt. corn meal ji tbsp. salt 

i qt. graham flour i c. and 3 tbsp. molasses 

if qts. sour milk 



Ingredients : 

3 qts. flour 
i tbsp. salt 
5 c. baking powder 



Biscuits 



Fruit Rolls 



Ingredients : 

3 qts. flour 

8 tbsp. baking powder 

i tbsp. salt 

4-5 c. milk 

Roll out and spread with 
f c. butter 
3 c. raisins 



i qt. milk or more 
6 tbsp. butter 
6 tbsp. lard 



J c. sugar , 
f c. butter of, 
f c. lard 



3 c. brown sugar 
2 tbsp. cinnamon 



. Wheat Muffins 

Ingredients : 

2\ qts. flour 5 e ggs 

6f tbsp. baking powder J c. sugar 

if tbsp. salt I0 tbsp. melted butter 
ii qts. milk 



308 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Entire Wheat or Graham Muffins 

Ingredients : 

2 pts. white flour 5 eggs 

3 pts. graham flour i| qts. milk 

6 tbsp. baking powder 10 tbsp. melted butter 

if tbsp. salt | c. sugar 

Corn Muffins 

Ingredients : 

i qts. wheat flour i| tbsp. salt 

1 1 qts. corn meal 6 eggs 

8 tbsp. baking powder i qts. milk 

| c. sugar f c. melted butter 

CAKES 

Ginger Cake 

Ingredients : 

1 qt. molasses 4 tsp. soda 

2 c. hot water 4 tsp. ginger . 

1 c. melted butter 2 tsp. cinnamon 
2| qts. flour 2 tsp. salt 

Plain Cake 

Ingredients : 

2 Ibs. butter 7 qts. flour 

4 Ibs. sugar 14 tbsp. baking powder 

3 doz. eggs 2\-\ qts. milk 
i tbsp. salt 3 tbsp. vanilla 

White Cake 

Ingredients : 

i\ c. butter 4! tbsp. baking powder 

6f c. sugar f tsp. cream of tartar 

3 c. milk 1 1 tsp. salt 

iij c. flour 2 tsp. almond extract 

whites of 28 eggs 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



39 



Ingredients : 

4 c. butter 
8 c. sugar 
1 6 eggs 



Spanish Cake 



i qt. milk 



14 c. flour 

8 tbsp. baking powder 

8 tsp. cinnamon 



Ingredients : 



20 eggs 
4 c. sugar 
4 c. flour 



Sponge Cake I 



4 tsp. baking powder 
i tsp. salt 
i tbsp. vanilla 



Ingredients: 



24 eggs 
4 c. sugar 
rind 2 lemons 



Sponge Cake II 



4 c. flour 

\ c. lemon juice 

i tsp. salt 



Ingredients : 

i c. butter 
3 c. sugar 
6 eggs 



Washington Cakes 



f tbsp. salt 



5i c. flour 

2 tbsp. baking powder 

if c. milk 



Bake as cup cakes. Split, fill, and cover with whipped cream. 
The cream may be colored with currant jelly. 



Ingredients : 



i c. sugar 
\ c. flour 
\ tsp. salt 



Filling for Above 



3 c. milk 

4 eggs 

f tbsp. vanilla 



310 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 
Spice Cookies 



Ingredients : 

1 c. butter 

2 c. brown sugar 
2 eggs 

i c. molasses 
i tsp. vanilla 
if c. milk 



2 qts. flour 

4 tsp. baking powder 
^ nutmeg, grated 

3 tbsp. cinnamon 
2 tsp. cloves 

i tsp. salt 



Doughnuts 



Ingredients : 

% c. and 2 tbsp. butter 
i^ c. sugar 
6 eggs 
1 1 c. milk 
flour to roll 



2 J tbsp. baking powder 
^ tsp. cinnamon 
^ tsp. nutmeg 
i tbsp. salt 
i tbsp. vanilla 



Ingredients : 

6 heads lettuce 
2 doz. oranges 
2 cans Hawaiian pineapple 
i Ib. malaga grapes 
Ib. candied cherries 



SALADS 
Fruit 



1 c. English walnut 
meats 

2 c. cubed celery 
6 bananas 

i qt. mayonnaise 



Mayonnaise Dressing 

Ingredients : 

4-6 yolks to i qt. oil 



Waldorf 



Ingredients : 

4 qts. apples 
2 qts. celery 



2 c. walnut meats 
i qt. mayonnaise 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 311 

Chicken 

Ingredients : 

5 qts. chicken (5 chickens) i c. French dressing 

5 qts. celery i qt. mayonnaise 



Tomato Jelly 

Ingredients : 

f c. gelatin i qt. cold water 

i gal. tomatoes i c. celery 

1 onion 2 c. carrots 

2 \ tbsp. salt i bay leaf 

2 \ tbsp. powdered sugar 12 peppercorns 

12 allspice berries 



Cheese Straws for Salads 

Ingredients : 

2 qts. grated cheese 2 tsp. salt 

2 qts. crumbs i tsp. pepper 

5! c. flour I tsp. cayenne 

c. butter i c . milk 



DESSERTS 

Snow Pudding 

Ingredients : 

1 1 boxes granulated gelatin 6 c. sugar 

2 c. cold water 2 c. lemon juice 

2 qts. boiling water 10 whites of eggs 



Coffee Cream 

Ingredients : 

2 boxes granulated gelatin i\ c. cold water 

4 c. sugar 2 qts. strong coffee 

$\ qts. thin cream 



312 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Soft Custard 

Ingredients : 

10 yolks of eggs i| c. sugar 

i tsp. salt 2\ qts. milk 

2 tsp. vanilla 

Cup Custard 

Ingredients : 

4 qts. milk 2 tsp. salt 

1 6 eggs 4 tsp. vanilla 

3 c. sugar 

Chocolate Custard 

Ingredients : 

Above plus 8 oz. chocolate 



Soft Chocolate Custard 

Ingredients : 

4 qts. milk 2 c. sugar 

4 oz. chocolate 2 tsp. salt 

1 6 egg yolks 4 tsp. vanilla 

Meringue 

1 6 egg whites 2 c. powdered sugar 



Rice Pudding 

Ingredients : 

8 qts. milk 3 c. sugar 

2 qts. water 2 pkgs. raisins 

3 c. rice 2 tsp. salt 

Scalloped Apples 

Ingredients : 

1 6 qts. sliced apples 5 tsp. cinnamon 

5 qts. bread crumbs 5 c. sugar 

2 c. butter juice and rind 4 lemons 
i c. water 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 313 

Apple Snow 

Ingredients : 

30 large apples 5 c. powdered sugar 

30 egg whites juice 5 lemons 



Apple Tapioca 

Ingredients : 

3 c. tapioca 3 qts. boiling water 

| pk. apples 2 c. sugar 



Chocolate Bread Pudding 

Ingredients : 

5 qts. milk 12 eggs 

2 qfs. bread i tbsp. salt 

10 oz. chocolate 2 tbsp. vanilla 
3 c. sugar 



Hard Sauce 

Ingredients : 

2 c. butter 2 c. powdered sugar 

2 c. brown sugar i tbsp. vanilla 



Junket 

Ingredients : 

6 qts. milk 6 tablets dissolved in 4 tbsp. 

i c. sugar cold water 

2 tbsp. vanilla 



Chocolate Junket 

Ingredients : 

6 qts. milk i c. hot water 

2 c. sugar 6 tablets dissolved in 4 tbsp. 

4 oz. chocolate cold water 

i tbsp. vanilla 



314 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 
Steamed Pudding 



Ingredients ; 

i c. butter 

2 1 c. sugar 

5 eggs 

i^ qts. milk 

juice and rind 2 lemons 



\ c. flour 

4^ qts. bread crumbs 

4 tbsp. baking powder 

i \ tsp. salt 

i qt. raisins 



Ingredients : 

2\ qts. milk 

14 eggs 

2 \ qts. cream 

Ingredients : 

2 qts. milk 
12 yolks 



Ingredients : 

3 Ibs. sugar 



i \ nutmegs (grated) 

FROZEN DESSERTS 
Chocolate Ice Cream 



Ingredients : 

5 qts. milk 
7 c. sugar 

Ingredients : 

5 qts. water 
rind of 6 oranges 
i qt. orange juice 



5 c. sugar 

12 oz. chocolate 

4^ tbsp. vanilla 

Custard Ice Cream 

4 c. sugar 
4 tbsp. vanilla 
2 qts. cream 

Strawberry Ice Cream 

3 qts. berries 
4^ qts. cream 

Milk Sherbet 
Orange Ice 



2 c. lemon juice 
rind of 3 lemons 



4 Ibs. sugar 
rind of 6 lemons 
2 c. lemon juice 



INDEX 



Absorption of odors, 

experiments, 88-89. 
Alkaloids, 2. 
Almonds, salted, 294. 
Apples, 16-17, 52, S3, 67, 74, 100. 

baked, 16. 

in bloom, 16. 

in sirup with oatmeal, 52. 

in sirup with rice, 52. 

potato, 67. 

scalloped, 74, 312. 

scalloped with cheese, 100. 

snow, 313. 

steamed, 16. 

stewed, 17. 

tapioca, 53, 313. 
Apple sauce, 16, 20, 296. 
Apricots, 19, 296. 

conserve, 41. 
Arrowroot gruel, 56. 

Ash constituents. See Food Values and 
the general discussions of the dif- 
ferent foods. 
Asparagus, 58, 74. 

Bacon, 140. 
Bacteria, 26. 
Baking powder, 180. 
Bananas, baked, 17. 
Barley gruel, 56. 
Barley water, 10. 
Batters, 189-217. 
Bavarian creams, 150. 

coffee, 150. 

grape, 150. 

orange, 150. 
Beans, 71, 101. 

baked, 71, 77, 303. 

dried lima, 71. 



Bean loaf, 101. 
Beef. See also Meat. 

broth, 141. 

casserole, 143. 

cuts of, 127-128. 

fillet, broiled, 137. 

fillet of, 135, 136. 

Hamburg steak, 138. 

juice, 141. 

pot roast, 140. 

stew, 141. 
Beets, buttered, 64. 
Beverages, i-io, 295-296. 

classification, i. 

definition, i. 

experiments, 3-6. 

fruits suitable for, 24. 

methods of serving, 2. 

recipes, 6-10. 

references, 10. 
Biscuits, 196-197, 307. 

bran, 197. 

cheese, 197. 

corn meal, 197. 

emergency, 197. 

fruit, 197. 

general rules, 196. 

graham or entire wheat, 196. 

wheat, 196. 

Biuret reaction for protein, 85. 
Bouillon, 132. 
Bread, 189-193, 306-307. 

Boston brown, 190, 307. 

brown, 190. 

gluten, 190. 

graham, 190, 191, 243, 306. 

Indian, 243. 

nut, 190, 191, 192, 307. 

sticks, 193, 



INDEX 



Bread, toast, cream, 304. 

toast, German, 304. 

wheat, 189, 306. 
Butter. See also Milk. 

experiments, 84. 
Buttermilk. See also Milk. 

experiments, 84-85. 

uses for, 243-247. 
Butters, 23. 

Cabbage, 65-66. 

buttered, 65. 
creamed, 66. 

with ham, 66. 
Caffeine, 2. 
Caffetannic acid, 3. 
Cake, 218-227, 308-309. 

apple, dried, 245. 

apple sauce, 222. 

chocolate, 220. 

coffee, 222. 

date loaf, 221. 

fruit, 222, 245. 

general rules, 218. 

gingerbread with cheese, 103, 104. 

ginger cake, 223, 308. 

ginger cup, 224. 

Genoese, 227. 

ginger, hot water, 223. 

gold, 221. 

jelly roll, 226. 

Lady Baltimore, 220. 

mocha, 226. 

modifications, 219. 

orange loaf, 221. 

plain, 308. 

pound, 220. 

raspberry, canned, 223. 

Roxbury, 224. 

Spanish, 219, 309. 

spice, 246. 

sponge, 225, 309. 

sponge, drops, 225. 

sponge, for ornamenting, 226. 

sponge, hot water, 225. 

sponge, white, 226. 

sponge, with baking powder, 225. 

sponge, yellow, 224. 

standard, 219. 

Washington, and filling, 309. 

white, 219, 308. 



Cake, with butter, 218-224. 

without butter, 224-227. 
Candy, 286-294. 

butterscotch, 293. 

candied orange peel, 293. 

claire creams, 291. 

fluff, 292. 

fondant, 286-290. 

fudge, 290-291. 

general discussion, 284. 

glace for fruits and nuts, 293. 

honey puffs, 292. 

molasses, 292. 

peanut brittle, 293. 

Turkish nougat, 292. 
Canning (and preserving), 22-46. 

definitions, 33. 

experiments, 26-33. 

fruits, for, 22. 

general directions, 34. 

references, 45-46. 

score cards, 45. 

vegetables for, 22. 
Caramel, 90. 
Carrots, 59, 60, 65. 
Cereals, 47-57, 297. 

consistency of, 48. 

cooking of, 48, 51. 

cream of wheat, 297. 

experiments, 49-51. 

general discussion, 47-48. 

general rules, 51. 

oatmeal, 297. 

purchasing, 48. 

reasons for cooking, 48. 

references, 56-57. 

rice, boiled, 297. 

rice, steamed, 297. 

serving, 48. 

tabular summary for cooking, 51. 

variations in serving, 48. 

with fruits, combinations of, 52. 
Charlottes, 151. 

caramel, 151. 

chocolate, 151. 

coffee, 151. 

orange, 151. 

Russe, 151. 

strawberry, 151. 
Cheese, 95-105, 115, 120, 208. 

food values, 104-105. 



INDEX 



317 



Cheese, general discussion, 95-96. 
recipes, 96-104. 

apples scalloped with, 100. 

balls, 103. 

bean loaf, 101. 

cake, 99. 

corn, tomato and, 102. 

croquettes, 120. 

custard, 100. 

eggs with, 96. 

fondue, 97. 

gingerbread, 103, 104. 

Italian rice, 102. 

lima bean loaf, 101. 

loaf, 101. 

macaroni baked with, 208. 

nut loaf, 10 1. 

omelet, 98. 

red bunny, 99. 

rice, Italian, 102. 

souffle, 115. 

souffl6 with pastry, 100. 

soup, vegetable and, 101. 

soup, 100. 

spinach loaf, 102. 

straws, 103, 311. 

tomato and corn, 102. 

Turkish pilaf, 102. 

Welsh rarebit, 98, 99. 
Cherry and pineapple preserve, 42. 
Cherry conserve, 42. 
Chicken, 133, 154-157. 
a la King, 157. 
casserole, 156. 
creamed, 156. 
Creole, 157. 
fricassee, 155. 
fried, 155. 
gravy, 155. 
Maryland, 156. 
pie, 156. 
roast, 154. 
sauce, 156. 
soup, 133. 

stuffing for roast, 155. 
Chili sauce, 43. 
Chocolate, 8. 
Citric acid, 2. 
Clams, 166-167. 
broth, 167. 
chowder, 167. 



Clams, steamed, 166. 
Cocoa, 7, 295. 
Codfish, creamed, 162. 
Coffee, 7, 295. 
Comforts, 201. 
Conserves, 23, 41-42. 

apricot, 41. 

cherry, 42. 

grape, 42. 

plum, 42. 

rhubarb, 41. 
Consomme, 132. 
Cookies, 209-215. 

Boston, 211. 

Brownies, chocolate, 215. 

chocolate, 214. 

chocolate chips, 215. 

chocolate wafers, 210. 

classification, 209-210. 

fairy gingerbread, 215. 

general rules, 210. 

ginger snaps, 213. 

hermits, 214. 

Margarets, 211. 

meringues, 212. 

meringues, date, 212. 

molasses, 213, 246, 247. 

molasses drop, 212. 

nut, 215. 

oatmeal, 211. 

orange circles, 213. 

peanut, 212. 

sponge drops, 213. 

sugar, 214, 246. 

thin, 214. 

vanilla, 214. 
Corn meal gruel, 56. 
Corn pudding, 65. 
Cornstarch pudding, 53. 
Cottage cheese, 87. 
Crabapples, baked, 17. 
Crabs, 170-171. 

devilled, 170. 

soft-shelled, 171. 
Cranberry, 

jelly, 1 8, 296. 

sauce, 1 8, 297. 

spiced, 1 8. 
Cream, 

experiments, 83-84. 

uses for sour, 244, 246, 247. 



INDEX 



Creamed vegetables, 73, 298. 
Cream filling for eclairs, 207. 
Cream of wheat, 297. 
Cream puffs, 206, 207. 
Cream soups, 74-75, 300. 

asparagus, 74. 

celery, 75, 300. 

chicken, 75. 

string bean, 75. 

tomato, 75, 300. 
Croquettes, 118-121. 

beef and rice, 121. 

cheese, 120. 

chicken, 120. 

crumbs for, 118. 

eggs for, 1 1 8. 

fats for frying, 119. 

nut and raisin, 120. 

potato, 119. 

recipes, 119-121. 

rice, 119. 

score card, 121. 

veal or lamb, 121. 
Crumbs for scalloped dishes, 73. 
Cucumber pickles, 44. 
Custard, 89-91, 100, 312. 

baked, 90, 312. 

caramel, 90. 

cheese, 100. 

chocolate, 91, 312. 

floating island, 91. 

general rules, 89. 

rice or tapioca, 91. 

soft, 89, 312. 

steamed, 90. 

tapioca or rice, 91. 

Dates, oatmeal with, 52. 

Desserts, 53-55, 3 1 1-3 14. See also under 

the name of each. 
Doughnuts, 201, 247, 310. 
Doughs, 189-217. 
Drying, fruits for, 24. 

Eclairs, 207. 

Eggs, 96, 107-113, 237. 

experiments, 107-109. 

food value, 113. 

general discussion, 107. 

preserving, 107, 112. 

recipes, 109-112, 237. 



Eggs, recipes, a la goldenrod, 112. 

coddled, no. 

foamy omelet, in. 

French omelet, in. 

hard-cooked, 109. 

in-nest, in. 

omelets, no. 

poached, 110. 

scrambled, no. 

scrambled with tomato sauce, 112. 

shirred or baked, no. 

soft-cooked, 109. 

stuffed, 304. 

with cheese, 96. 

with grape juice, 9. 

references, 122. 
Egg plant, 71. 
Escalloped. See Scalloped. 
Experiments, 3-6, 13-15, 26-33, 49~5i, 
60-64, 83-89, 107-109, 116-118, 
125-126, 147-148, 172-179, 180- 
185, 260-261, 270-271, 285-286. 
See also under the different foods. 

Farinaceous desserts, 53~55, 312-313. 

apple tapioca, 53, 313- 

baked Indian, 54. 

coffee sago, 54. 

cornstarch pudding, 53. 

orange, 55. 

rice, 55, 312. 

shredded wheat, 55. 

Fat, experiments with deep fat frying, 
116-118. 

See also Food Values and the general 
discussions of the individual 
foods. 

Fehling-Benedict solution, 13. 
Fifty servings, recipes for, 

beverages, 295-296. 

breads, 306-307. 

cakes, 308-309. 

cereals, 297. 

cheese straws, 311. 

cookies, 310. 

desserts, 311-314. 

doughnuts, 310. 

fish, 305-306. 

frozen desserts, 314. 

fruits, 296-297. 

mayonnaise dressing, $IQ. 



INDEX 



Fifty servings, recipes for, meats, 302-303. 

meat substitutes, 303-305. 

muffins, 307-308. 

oysters, scalloped, 306. 

salads, 310-311. 

soups, 300-302. 

vegetables, 298-299. 
Fillings for cake, 220, 223, 233-234. 

chocolate, 223, 233. 

cream, 233. 

fig and fruit, 234. 

Lady Baltimore, 220. 

lemon, 233. 

orange, 233. 
Fish, 158-165, 171, 305-306. 

baked, stuffed, 160, 306. 

boiled, 1 60. 

boning, 159. 

broiled, 160. 

chowder, 162. 

cleaning, 159. 

codfish balls, 306. 

cooking, 159, 161. 

creamed cod, 305. 

food value, 165. 

general discussion, 158-159. 

recipes, 160-162, 305-306. See also 
under name of each dish. 

references, 171. 

salmon cutlets, 305. 

sauces, 159, 163-164. 

scalloped, 162, 305. 

steamed, 160. 

stuffing for, 1 60. 

vegetables suitable for serving with, 

159- 

Fish balls, 161. 
Flounder, turbans of, 161. 
Flour mixtures, 172-247, 266-267. 

classification, 185-187. 

experiments, 172-185. 

food values, 198, 205, 217, 229, 230. 

general discussion, 172. 

oven temperatures, 187. 

pastry, 234-242. 

recipes, 189-195, 196-204, 206-215, 
218-227, 235-240, 243-247, 266- 
267. 

references, 187-188. 

score cards, 195, 196, 197, 205, 216, 
227, 228, 241, 242. 



Flour mixtures, steamed, 266-267. 

using sour milk, buttermilk, sour 

cream, 243-247. 

Food values, 20, 77-79, 92, 104-105, 113, 
165, 198, 205, 217, 229-230, 259, 
263-264, 283. 

apple sauce, 20. 

beans, baked, 77. 

biscuits, 198. 

boiled dressing, 264. 

cake, chocolate, 229. 

cake, sponge, 230. 

creamed codfish on toast, 165. 

cream soups, 78-79. 

custard, baked, 92. 

egg, scrambled, 113. 

French dressing, 264. 

gingerbread, 229. 

hermits, 217. 

ice cream, 283. 

macaroni and cheese, 104. 

mayonnaise dressing, 263. 

molasses cookies, 217. 

muffins, 205. 

potatoes, creamed, 78. 

prunes, stewed, 20. 

rice pudding with eggs, 92. 

rice with cheese and tomatoes, 105. 

salads, 259. 

sandwich, 259. . 

sherbet, milk, 283. 
Fritters, 200-201. 
Frostings, 226, 227, 230-232. 

caramel, 231. 

chocolate, 230, 231, 232. 

cocoa, 232. 

coffee, 232. 

confectioners', 231. 

cooked, 230-231. 

fudge, 231. 

glaze, 227. 

maple, 231.. 

mocha, 232. 

mocha for sponge cake, 226. 

orange, 232. 

White Mountain, 230. 
Frozen mixtures, 269-283. 

binders, 272. 

classification, 273. 

experiments, 270-271. 

fillers, 272. 



320 



INDEX 



Frozen mixtures, food values, 283. 

general discussion, 260-270. 

ice cream powders, 272. 

recipes, 274-281. 

references, 283. 

score cards, 282. 
Fruits, i, 1 1-2 1, 52, 296, 297. 

acids of, 2. 

apple sauce, 296. 

apricots stewed, 296. 

chemical composition, n. 

combinations of, with cereals, 52, 
297. 

cooking, reasons for, 12. 

cranberry jelly, 296. 

dietetic value, n. 

dried, general rules, 18. 

experiments, 13-15. 

food values, 20. 

general classes, n, 22-24. 

general rules for preparation, 12. 

preservation, 22, 25, 33. See also 
Canning. 

purchasing, 12. 

recipes, 16-19. 

references, 20-21. 

rhubarb, baked, 296. 

score cards for preserved fruits, 
45- 

Gelatin, 124, 146-151. 

as protein food, 124. 

culture media, 28. 

experiments, 147-148. 

general discussion, 146-147. 

recipes, 148-151. 

score cards, 151. 
Gingerbread, 103, 104, 223, 247. 
Grape, conserve, 42. 

juice, i, 9, 38. 

spiced, 40. 
Grapefruit marmalade, 39. See also 

Fruits. 

Gravy, 136, 155. 
Griddlecakes, 198-199. 

corn meal, 199. 

general rules, 199. 

sour milk, 198. 

sweet milk, 198. 

wheat, 198. 
Gruels, 56. 



Haddock, planked, 161. 
Hash, browned, 142. 
Honey (so called), 23. 

Ice creams, 274-276, 280. 

baked Alaska, 280. 

caramel, 275. 

chocolate, 276, 314. 

coffee, 276. 

frozen custard, 274-275, 314. 

lacto, 276. 

molds, 280. 

prune, 275. 

strawberry, 274, 314. 

vanilla, 274. 
Ices, 277-279. 

apricot, 278. 

currant, 278. 

currant and raspberry, 278. 

ginger, 279. 

grape juice, 278. 

lemon, 277. 

mint, 279. 

orange, 277. 

peach, 278. 

pineapple, 278. 

raspberry, 278. 

strawberry, 278. 
Iodine test for starch, 13. 

Jam, 23. 

Jellies with gelatin, 148-149. 

coffee, 149. 

fruit, 149. 

lemon, 149. 

orange, 149. 

prune, 149. 

wine, 149. 
Jelly making, 14, 18, 23, 32, 35-36, 

39- 
Junket, 86, 313. 

Lamb. See Meat. 

Lamb chops, 137. 

Lead acetate solution, 3. 

Leavens Leavening agents, 179. 

Lemonade, i, 9, 295. 

Lemon whey, 8. 

Lobster, 169-170. 

general directions, 169. 

Newburg, 170. 



INDEX 



321 



Macaroni, 207-209, 304. 

baked with cheese, 208, 304. 

boiled, 207. 

cheese and tomato sauce, 209. 

Italian style, 208. 
Macaroons, 150. 
Malic acid, 2. 
Marmalades, 33, 39. 

grapefruit, 39. 

yellow tomato, 39. 
Meat, 123-152, 302, 303. 

beef, 135-143. 

broiling, 137. 

cakes, 142. 

casserole, 143. 

cuts of beef, 127-128. 

cuts of lamb, 130. 

cuts of mutton, 130. 

cuts of pork, 131. 

cuts of veal, 129. 

experiments, 125-126. 

general discussion, 123-124. 

hash, browned, 142. 

lamb chops, 137. 

left-over, 142-144. 

mutton chops, broiling, 137. 

recipes, 135-144. 

references, 151-152. 

roasting, 135. 

rules for tender cuts, 135-140. 

rules for tough cuts, 140-144. 

sauces, 144-146. 

score card, 146. 

table for roasang, 135. 

veal casserole; 143. 
Meringues, 212. 
Microorganisms, 25. 
Milk, 82-94. 

experiments, 83-89. 

food values, 92. 

general discussion, 82-83. 

recipes, 89-92. 

references, 93-94. 

sour, recipes using, 243-247. 
Millon test for protein, 13. 
Mineral matter. See Food Values and 
the general discussions of the dif- 
ferent foods. 
Molds, 25-26. 
Mousses, 280-281. 

chocolate, 281. 



Mousses, coffee, 280. 

fruit, 281. 

grape juice, 281. 

strawberry, 281. 
Muffins, Berkshire, 203. 

blueberry, 204. 

bran, 203. 

bran with corn, 203. 

corn meal, 202, 244, 307. 

entire wheat, 202. 

for fifty servings, 307, 308. 

general rules, 202. 

graham, 202, 308. 

hominy, 203. 

one egg, 202. 

rice, 203. 

southern pone, 204. 

southern spoon corn bread, 204. 

wheat, 202, 307. 
Mutton. See Meat. 
Mutton chops, 137. 

Noodles, 208. 

Nutritive value of cooked foods, 19. 
See also Food Values. 

Oatmeal, 297. 

apples in sirup with, 52. 

gruel, 56. 

water, 9. 

with dates, 52. 
Oils, experiments, 260-261. 
Olives, 159, 256-257. 
Omelets, iio-m, 98. 

cheese, 98. 

foamy, in. 

French, in. 
Onions, 59. 
Orangeade, i. 

Oven temperature, 175, 187. 
Oysters, 168-169. 

broth, 1 68. 

cocktail, 1 68. 

fricassee, 169. 

fried, 1 68. 

' ' pigs-in-blankets, " 1 69 . 

stew, 1 68. 

Pan-broiling, 137, 138. 
Parfaits, 281. 



322 



INDEX 



Parfaits, golden, 281. 

silver, 281. 
Parsnips, 68. 
Pastes, flour, 207-208. 

plain, 235. 

puff, 235. 
Pastry, 235-240. 

Banbury filling, 237. 

Banbury tarts, 236. 

cheese straws, 236. 

meringue, 237. 

patties, 236. 

tarts and turnovers, 240. 
Peaches, 37. 
Pears, 17, 40. 
Peas, 65. 
Pectin, 12, 14. 
Peppers, 

pickled, 44. 

stuffed, 69, 299. 
Pickles, 43-44- 

cucumber, 44. 

mustard, 43. 

red pepper, 44. 

sweet, 43. 

tomato, 44. 
Pickling, 24, 43-44. 

fruits suitable for, 24. 

recipes, 43-44- 

vegetables suitable for, 24. 
Pie, 237-240. 

apple, 239. 

chocolate, 237. 

coconut, 237. 

cream, 237. 

custard 238. 

green tomato mince, 240. 

lemon, 237. 

mince, 239. 

mock, cherry, 238. 

pumpkin, 238. 

sour cream, 238. 
Popovers, 206. 
Pork. See Meat. 
Potassium acid tartrate, 2. 
Potato, 66-68, 298. 

apples, 67. 

mashed, 298. 

puff, 67. 

souffle", 67. 

stuffed, baked, 66. 



Potato, sweet, glazed, 68. 

sweet, puff, 67. 
Poultry, 153-157- See also Chicken. 

boning, 154. 

cleaning and dressing, 153-154. 

general discussion, 153. 

recipes, 154-157. 

trussing, 154. 
Preserves, 22-46. 

definition, 33. 

experiments, 26-33. 

fruits, suitable for, 22. 

general directions for, 34. 

recipes, 39-42- 

references, 45-46. 

score card, 45. 

utensils necessary for, 33. 
Preserving, 22-46. See also Canning. 
Protein. See Experiments, Food Values, 
and the general discussions of the 
different foods. 
Prunes, stewed, 296. 

Puddings, 53-55, 65, 91-92, 244, 266- 
267, 279-280, 311-314. 

apple tapioca, 53, 313. 

baked Indian, 54. 

bread, 91. 

chocolate bread, 92, 313. 

chocolate custard, 312. 

coffee cream, 311. 

coffee sago, 54. 

corn, 65, 299. 

cornstarch, 53. 

cup custard, 312. 

date, 266. 

fig, 267. 

frozen, 279. 

fruit, 267. 

graham, 244. 

hard sauce, 313. 

Hunter's, 267. 

junket, 313- 

junket, chocolate, 313. 

meringue, 313. 

Nesselrode, 279. 

Nesselrode, sauce for, 280. 

orange, 55. 

plum, 244, 267. 

queen of, 92. 

rice, 91, 312. 

shredded wheat, 55. 



INDEX 



323 



Puddings, snow, 150, 311. 

snow balls, 267. 

soft chocolate custard, 312. 

soft custard, 312. 

steamed, 314. 

steamed Indian, 266. 

tapioca, 91. 
Pudding sauces, 268-269, 274, 280. 

classification, 268. 

chocolate, 274. 

cream, 269. 

hard, 268. 

lemon, 268. 

Nesselrode pudding, 280. 

Sabayon, 269. 

sterling, 268. 

vanilla, 269. 
Punch, fruit, 296. 
Purees, 76-77. 

black bean, 77. 

corn, 75, 76. 

pea, 76. 

potato, 76. 

Quinces, baked, 17. 

Rarebit, Welsh, 98, 99. 
Raspberry vinegar, 38. 
References, 10, 20-21, 4546, 5657, 80 
81, 93-94. 105-106, 122, 151-152, 
171, 187-188, 264-265, 283, 294. 

beverages, 10. 

butter, 94. 

canning and preserving, 45-46. 

cereals, 56-57. 

cheese, 105-106. 

eggs, 122. 

fish and shellfish, 171. 

flour and bread, 187-188. 

fruits, 20-21. 

ice cream, 283. 

meat, 151-152. 

milk, 93-94. 

oils, 264-265. 

soups, 81. 

sugar, 294. 

vegetables, 80. 
Rhubarb, baked, 296. 
Rice, 47-52, 55, 91-92, 105, 143, 297. 

experiments, 49. 

creamed, 305. 



Rice, in sirup with apples, 52. 

methods of preparation, 51, 52,91,93,--"" 
143, 297, 302, 304, 305- 

with cheese and tomatoes, 105. 
Roasting, 135. 
Rolls, 192-195, 307. 

Dorcas, 192. 

glaze for, 195. 

hot cross buns, 194. 

luncheon, 194. 

Parker House, 192. 

Swedish, 193. 
Royal scallop, 144. 

Salads, 248-255, 261-263, 310-311. 

accessories served with, 251. 

combinations, 252, 253, 254. 

dressings, 249, 261-263. 

food value, 259. 

foundation, 248249. 

general discussion, 248. 

greens, 248, 251. 

variations in dressing, 249-250. 

when served, 250-251. 
Salad dressings, 261-263. 

boiled, 262. 

cream, 262. 

French, 261, 262. 

mayonnaise, 263. 

Spanish, 262. 
Salmon. See Fish. 
Sandwiches, 255259. 

conveyor of filling, 255-256. 

fancy, 258. 

fillings, 256-257. 

food value, 259. 

general rules, 255. 

Sauce, 144-146, 163-164, 268-269, 274, 
280, 304. 

Bechamel, 163. 

brown, 144. 

brown mushroom, 145. 

chocolate, 274. 

classification, 268. 

cream, 269. 

Cuban, 145. 

drawn butter, 163. 

egg, 163. 

hard, 268. 

Hollandaise, 164. 

horseradish, 146. 



324 



INDEX 



Sauce, lemon, 268. 
Maitre d'Hotel butter, 164. 
mock Hollandaise, 164. 
mushroom, 145. 
Nesselrode, 280. 
tartare, 164. 

tomato, for rice or macaroni, 304. 
Sabayon, 269. 
Spanish, 146. 
sterling, 268. 
vanilla, 269. 

Scalloped dishes, 73-74, 144, 303. 
apples, 74. 
crumbs for, 73. 
general rules, 73. 
meat, 303. 
' oysters, 306. 
royal, 144. 
tomatoes, 74. 
vegetables, 73. 

Score cards, 45, 121, 146, 151, 195-197 
205, 216, 227228, 241242, 282. 
biscuits, 196, 197. 
bread, 195. 
canned fruits, 45. 
cookies, 216. 
croquettes, 121. 
custard ice cream, 282. 
gelatin desserts, 151. 
layer cake, 228. 
loaf cake, 227. 
meat roast, 146. 
muffins, 205. 

Philadelphia ice cream, 282. 
pies, 241, 242. 
preserves, 45. 
sherbets and ices, 282. 
sponge cake, 228. 
Shad roe, 161. 
Shellfish, 165-171. 
Sherbets, 276-277. 
combination, 277. 
milk, 276. 
orange, 277. 
pineapple, 277. 
Smelts, 161. 
Soda (sodium bicarbonate), 86, 180, 

181. 

Souffle's, 67, 69, 100, 113-115. 
cheese, 115. 
cheese, corn and, 115. 



Souffles, cheese, with pastry, 100. 
custard, 114. 
essentials for, 113. 
fruit, 114. 
lamb, 144. 
lemon, 114. 
meat, 115. 
potato, 67. 
squash, 69. 
varieties, 114. 
vegetable, 115. 
Soups, 100-101, 132-134. (See also 

Cream, and Purges.) 
brown stock, 133, 300. 
chicken, 133. 
crpam of celery, 75, 300. 
cream of corn, 300. 
cream of potato, 300. 
cream of tomato, 75, 300. 
Creole, 134, 301. 
general discussion, 132. 
macaroni, 302. 
meat left from, 132-133. 
milk and cheese, 100. 
Mongole, 134, 301. 
noodle, 302. 
rice, 302. 

stock classification, 132. 
to clear stock, 133. 
uses for stock, 132. 
vegetable, 134, 301. 
vegetable and cheese, 101. 
Spaghetti, 207, 209. 
boiled, 207. 
loaf, 209. 

panish cream, 150. 
macaroon, 150. 
plain, 150. 

pinach. See Vegetables, 
ponges, gelatin, 149. 
chocolate, 149. 
pineapple, 149. 
iquash, 69-70. 
baked summer, 70. 
souffle, 69. 
winter, 69. 

tarch. See Experiments, 
teak, stuffed flank, 144. 
tuffing, 

for chicken, 155. 
for fish, 1 60. 



INDEX 



325 



Stuffing, for flank steak, 136. 
Sugar, 34, 285-290. 

canning with, 34. 

canning without, 34. 

experiments, 285-286. 

fondant, 286-287. 

uses, 287-290. 
Sweetbreads, 139, 140. 

broiled, 139. 

creamed, 140. 
Sweet potatoes, 67, 68, 299. 

Tannin, 3. 

Tartrate, potassium acid, 2. 

Tea, 1-4, 6-7, 295. 

experiments, 3-4. 

recipes, 6-7, 295. 
Temperatures. See Experiments, 

Oven Temperature. 
Theine, 2. 
Theobromine, 2. 
Timbale cases, 199-200. 
Tomatoes, 37, 38, 44, 74, 299. 

canned, 37. 

marmalade, 39. 

pickled, 44. 

scalloped, 74. 

stewed, 299. 

Veal. See Meat. 
Veal en Casserole, 143. 



and 



Veal loaf, 303. 

Vegetables, 22, 24, 58-73, 101, 159, 298, 
299. 

classification, 58-59. 

creamed, 73. 

en Casserole, 70. 

experiments, 60-64. 

general discussion, 58. 

general rules for cooking, 60. 

methods of preservation, 22. 

points to emphasize, 59. 

reasons for cooking, 59. 

scalloped, 73. 

suitable for canning, 24. 

suitable for pickling, 24. 

suitable with fish, 159. 

ways of serving, 60. 
Volatile oils, 3. 

Waffles, 198-199. 

corn meal, 199. 

general rules, 199. 

sour milk, 198. 

sweet milk, 198. 

wheat, 198. 
Welsh rarebit, 98, 99. 
Whey, lemon, 8. , 

Xanthoproteic reaction for proteins, 85. 
Yeasts, 26. 



Printed in the United States of America. 



'HE following pages contain advertisements of a 
few of the Macmillan books on kindred subjects. 



A Laboratory Hand-book for Dietetics 

BY MARY SWARTZ ROSE, PH.D. 

Assistant Professor, Department of Nutrition, Teachers College, Columbia University 

Cloth , 8vo, $1.10 

Investigations into the quantitative requirements of the human body have progressed so 
far as to make dietetics to a certain extent an exact science, and to emphasize the importance 
of a quantitative study of food materials. This little book explains the problems involved in 
the calculation of food values and food requirements, and the construction of dietaries, and 
furnishes reference tables which will minimize the labor involved in such work without limiting 
dietary study to a few food materials. 

Only brief statements of the conditions affecting food requirements have been made, the 
reader being referred to general textbooks on the subject of nutrition for fuller information, 
but such data have been included as seem most useful in determining the amount of food for 
any normal individual under varying conditions of age and activity. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PART I 
Food Values and Food Requirements. 

THE COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 
THE FUNCTIONS OF FOOD. 

Food as a Source of Energy. 

Food as Building Material. 

Food in the Regulation of Body Processes. 
FOOD REQUIREMENT. 

The Energy Requirement of Normal Adults. 

The Energy Requirement of Children. 

The Energy Requirement of the Aged. 

The Protein Requirement. 

The Fat and Carbohydrate Requirement. 

The Ash Requirement. 

PART II 
Problems in Dietary Calculations. 

Studies in Weight, Measure, and Cost of Some Common Food Materials. 

Relation between Percentage Composition and Weight. 

Calulation of the Fuel Value of a Single Food Material. 

Calculation of the Weight of a Standard or loo-Calorie Portion. 

Food Value of a Combination of Food Materials. 

Distribution of Foodstuffs in a Standard Portion of a Single Food Material. 

Calculation of a Standard Portion of a Combination of Food Materials. 

Analysis of a Recipe. 

Modification of Cow's Milk to a Required Formula. 

Calculation of the Percentage Composition of a Food Mixture. 

The Calculation of a Complete Dietary. 

Scoring of the Dietary. 

Reference Tables. 

Refuse in Food Materials. 

Conversion Tables Grams to Ounces. 

Conversion Tables Ounces to Grams. 

Conversion Tables Pounds to Grams. 

Food Values in Terms of Standard Units of Weight. 

Ash Constituents in Percentages of the Edible Portion. 

Ash Constituents in Standard or zoo-Calorie Portions. 

APPENDIX 
The Equipment of a Dietetics Laboratory. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York 



Food Products 

BY HENRY C. SHERMAN 
Professor of Food Chemistry in Columbia University 

Illustrated, cloth, i2mo, 594 pages, $2.25 

A comprehensive, descriptive text-book on the gen- 
eral subject of foods. The first and second chapters 
deal with the principal constituents and functions of 
food and with food legislation ; then follow chapters 
on : Milk ; Cheese and Other Milk Products ; Eggs, 
Meats and Meat Products ; Poultry, Fish and Shell- 
fish ; Grain Products ; Vegetables, Fruits and Nuts ; 
Edible Fats and Oils ; Sugar, Molasses, Sirups and 
Confectionery ; and Food Adjuncts. The plan of 
the book makes it easy for the teacher to follow a 
different order of topics if desired. 



" Admirable." Science. 

" A really excellent text-book." 

Educational Review. 

" A valuable contribution to the literature of foods 
as well as a scientific presentation of many new facts 
regarding food values." - Insurance. 

" A scientific study of great value." 

New York Times. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York 



BY HENRY C. SHERMAN, PH.D. 

Professor in Columbia University 

Chemistry of Food and Nutrition 

Cloth, i2mo, viii + 355 pages, $1.50 

The purpose of this volume is to present the principles of 
the chemistry of food and nutrition with special reference to 
the food requirements of man and the considerations which 
should underlie our judgment of the nutritive values of food. 
The food is here considered chiefly in its nutritive relations. 
It is hoped that the more detailed description of individual 
foods and the chemical and legal control of the food indus- 
try may be treated in a companion volume later. 

The present work is the outgrowth of several years' experi- 
ence in teaching the subject to collegiate and technical 
students who have represented a considerable diversity of 
previous training and pgints of view, and, while published 
primarily to meet the needs of the author's classes, it is 
hoped that it may also be of service to students and teachers 
elsewhere and to general readers whose main interest may 
lie in other fields, but who appreciate the importance of food 
and nutrition as factors in hygiene and preventive medicine. 

While neither the size nor the purpose of this book would 
permit an historical or technically critical treatment, a limited 
number of historical investigations and controverted views 
have been mentioned in order to give an idea of the nature 
and validity of the evidence on which our present beliefs 
are based, and in some cases to put the reader on his guard 
against theories which, while now outgrown, are still some- 
times encountered. 

PUBLISHED BY 

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

64-66 Fifth Avenue, New York 



Household Bacteriology 



ESTELLE D. BUCHANAN, M.S. 
Recently Assistant Professor of Botany, Iowa State College 

AND 

ROBERT EARLE BUCHANAN, PH.D. 

Professor of Bacteriology, Iowa State College, and Bacteriologist of the 
Iowa Agricultural Experiment Station 

Cloth, 8vo, xv +536 pp., index, $2.25 

The word Household is used as an extension rather than a limitation of the 
title. In a thoroughly scientific manner the authors treat the subject-matter 
of general as well as of household bacteriology and include, therefore, the 
true bacteria as well as the yeasts, molds, and protozoa. The volume is, 
therefore, a general textbook of micro-biology in which special attention is 
given to those problems which are of particular interest to the student of 
household science. The main divisions of the book treat (i) the micro- 
organisms themselves, (2) fermentations with special reference to those 
affecting foods, (3) the relations of bacteria and other micro-organisms to 
health. A fully illustrated key (comprising 37 pages) to the families and 
genera of common molds supplements the unusually extended discussion of 
the morphology and classification of yeasts and molds, and makes possible 
the satisfactory identification of all forms ordinarily encountered by the 
student. The work embodies the results of the most recent researches. The 
book is exceptionally well written, the different topics are treated con- 
sistently and with a good sense of proportion. While concise in statement, it 
is thorough in method and scope. It is, therefore, well adapted for use as a 
text not only for students of household science, but also for those to whom it is 
desired to present the science of bacteriology from an economic and sanitary 
rather than from a strictly medical jpoint of view. 

"The book is a concisely written work on micro-biology, a branch of 
economic science that the public is beginning gradually to understand, has 
important relationship to the total welfare and prosperity of the community. 
. . . The manual can be recommended as a very good elementary bacteri- 
ology. It comprises about all there is of practical domestic value." 

Boston Advertiser. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York 



Textiles 

A Handbook for the Student and the Consumer 

BY 

MARY SCHENCK WOOLMAN, B.S. 

President of the Women's Educational and Industrial Union, Boston, acting head 

of the Department of Household Economics, Simmons College, recently 

Professor of Domestic Art in Teachers College 

AND 

ELLEN BEERS McGOWAN, B.S. 

Instructor in Household Arts in Teachers College, Columbia University 
Illustrated, Cloth, I2mo, xi+428 pp., Index, Bibliography, $2.00 

This book is the result of twenty years' experience in teaching textiles to 
college students. It is intended as a textbook for college classes or for study 
clubs and as a guide for the housekeeper or individual consumer of textiles 
and clothing, the teacher, the club woman, the saleswoman, and as an intro- 
ductory survey of the subject for the student who contemplates professional 
work in the textile industries. 

The growing emphasis upon textile study in college departments of home 
economics or household arts, and the increasing use of the textile industry as 
teaching material in other departments and other grades of schools, shows a 
recognition of the part that the textiles are playing in the development of 
civilization and in our everyday life. Interest in the subject is still further 
accentuated by the movements now on foot to regulate the social-economic 
conditions in the textile and clothing industries and to secure standardization 
and honest labeling of textile products, as is being done for food products by 
the " pure food laws." 

To meet the existing need the authors have attempted to prepare a text 
suitable for use in college classes or by the public, shorter and more readable 
than the technical handbooks, yet sufficiently thorough and comprehensive to 
give a sound grasp of the subject as a whole with so much of the technology 
as is directly helpful to the consumer and as should be included in general 
courses in colleges and technical or vocational schools. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York 



Physics of the Household 

BY C. J. LYNDE 

Professor of Physics in Macdonald College, Canada 

Illustrated, i2mo, $1.25 

This book presents in an exceptionally clear and direct manner the 
subject matter of a concise yet sufficiently comprehensive course for those 
beginning the study of physics whether in the college, the technical insti- 
tute, or the secondary school. The principles are made clear by applica- 
tion to household affairs and other every-day experiences. Although 
adapted to the requirements of beginners, those who have previously 
studied physics will also welcome the concise review of principles and the 
many applications and illustrations. In addition to its merits as a text- 
book, it constitutes a most interesting and useful manual on household 
appliances and processes. Any one who is interested either in knowing 
just how the familiar appliances work, or in equipping a house according 
to the most modern methods, will find in Professor Lynde's book a wealth 
of stimulating and highly practical information. 



Elementary Household Chemistry 
BY J. F. SNELL 

Professor of Chemistry in Macdonald College, Canada 

Illustrated, I2mo, $1.25 

In this textbook are to be found many new features both in the selec- 
tion and in the presentation of its subject matter. The principles of 
chemistry are developed and their every-day applications are studied 
simultaneously. The book is the outgrowth of a course given by the 
author for the last six years to students of high school and college age, but 
of varying degrees of preliminary training. The course has, therefore, 
been simple and the aim has been to introduce only such principles as 
find immediate application in connection with household work, but to 
present these principles in a correct and truly scientific manner. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York 



UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY, 
BERKELEY 






THIS BOOK IS DUE ON THE LAST DATE 
STAMPED BELOW 

Books not returned on time are subject to a fine of 
50c per volume after the third day overdue, increasing 
to $1.00 per volume after the sixth day. Books not in 
demand may be renewed if application is made before 
expiration of loan period. 



NOV22.lt 



MM 



DEC 7 192" 

8 






DEC 151927 






20m-l,'22 



i u / f 



' 



35936,1 



UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY 







u 

1 





This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



SCHLESINCERUBRAKY 



RS LflUT . 



FOODS AND 
COOKERY 

MATTESON and NEWLANDS 
I 



Digitized by 



Google 



The Arthur and Elizabeth 

SCHLESINGER LIBRARY 

on the History of Women 

in America 

RADCLIFFE COLLEGE 





1 



Digitized by 



Google 



^. 



^p 






r 



— ^ — ^ 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 






A LABORATORY MANUAL OF 
FOODS AND COOKERY 



Digitized by 



Gobgle 



:T>§?y^o 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

mW YORK • BOSTON • CHICAGO • DALLAS 
ATLANTA • SAN FRANaSCO 

MACMILLAN & CO., Limitbd 

LONDON • BOMBAY > CALCUTTA 
MBLBOURNB 

THE MACMILLAN CO. OF CANADA, Ltd. 

TORONTO 



Digitized by 



Google 



A LABORATORY MANUAL OF 
FOODS AND COOKERY 



BY 

EMMA B. MATTESON 

INSTRUCTOR IN HOME ECONOMICS, GEORGE PEABODY 
COLLEGE FOR TEACHERS 

AND 

ETHEL M. NEWLANDS 

DIRECTOR OF HOME ECONOMICS, THE BUFFALO 
TECHNICAL HIGH SCHOOL 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 
1920 

uiU rights rtsertfed 

' Digitized by VjOOQIC 



I^H I. 6'^ 
MH35JL 



Copyright, 19x6, 
By the MACMILLAN COMPANY. 

Set up and electrotyped. Published June. 19x6 



J. 8. Oushing Co. — Berwick A Smith Go. 
Norwood^ Mass., U.S.A. 



Google 



Digitized by 



PREFACE 

Teaching experience has shown the need of a textbook ap- 
proaching the study of foods and cookery through experimental 
work in chemistry, bacteriology, and biology. In this book, 
therefore, under each topic a considerable number of experi- 
ments will be foimd. The performance of these experiments 
and the answering of the questions which arise from them will 
give the student a firsthand acquaintance with the leading char- 
acteristics of each kind of food, will furnish a basis for the 
discussion of the procedures used in cookery, and should give 
her such a grasp of the principles involved as will enable her to 
work without recipes, or to develop her own. The attainment 
of such mastery on the part of the student is, however, greatly 
facilitated by practice with a considerable number of recipes 
which have already been thoroughly tested, just as in other ex- 
perimental sciences, the student is taught in part through prac- 
tice with explicit and workable laboratory directions. Hence, 
in addition to the experiments, the present work will be found 
to contain thoroughly tested recipes in adequate number and 
variety to permit of choice. It has also seemed wise to include 
a considerable number of " score cards " to facilitate judgment 
of the finished product ; and of illustrative calculations of nutri- 
tive values of typical cooked foods. Each chapter hks been 
made sufficiently complete in itself so that the topics may be 
taken up in any desired sequence and not necessarily in the 
order followed in the book. 

This Laboratory Manual was worked out through the corre- 
lated experience of the authors at Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, and 
Simmons College, Boston, and is amplified by their individual 



Digitized by 



Google 



VI PREFACE 

experiences in the Public Schools of New York City and New 
Haven ; the State Normal School at Winona, Minnesota ; The 
School of Education of The University of Chicago ; and The 
Diet School of Johns Hopkins Hospital. 

The authors desire to acknowledge the help given by Pro- 
fessor Ada Field of George Peabody College for Teachers, in 
the revision of the manuscript, and to express their appreciation 
of the encouragement received from Dr. Henry Clapp Sherman, 
of Colimibia University. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER I 
Beverages 

PAGB 

Food value of beverages. The methods of serving beverages. 
Fruit acids. The stimulants of beverages. Experiments with tea, 
coffee, chocolate, and cocoa. Recipes for preparation of stimulating 
and nutritive beverages. Recipes for cereal waters. References . 1 

CHAPTER II 

Fruits 

Classification. Composition and nutritive value. General rules 
for preparation. Reasons for cooking fruit. How to purchase fruit. 
Experiments with fruits. Recipes for preparation of fresh and dried 
fruits. Food value of apple sauce and stewed prunes. References . 11 

CHAPTER III 
Canning and Preserving 

Methods of preservation of fruits and vegetables. Experiments 
with fruits and vegetables. General rules for canning and preserv- 
ing. General directions for canning and preserving. Recipes. 
Score card for canned fruits, preserves. References ... 22 

CHAPTER IV , 
Cereals 

Composition and nutritive value. How to purchase cereals. 
Reasons for cooking cereals. Methods of cooking. Methods of 
serving, variations in serving, differences in consistency. Table of 
time and amounts of water per unit of cereal. General rules for 
cooking of cereals. Experiments. Recipes for cereals, cereals with 
fruits, farinaceous desserts, gruels. References .... 47 

vii 



Digitized by 



Google 



vm CONTENTS 

CHAPTER V 
Vegetables and Vegetable Soups 

PAGB 

Composition and nutritive value. Classification. Points to em- 
phasize. Reasons for cooking vegetables. Ways of serving vege- 
tables. General principles. Experiments. Recipes for vegetables. 
White sauce, creamed vegetables, scalloped vegetables. Recipes for 
scalloped dishes, cream soups, and purees. Food values of baked 
beans, creamed potato, cream of pea soup, cream of tomato soup, 
cream of potato soup, cream of lentil soup, split pea soup. Refer- 
ences 58 

CHAPTER VI 

Milk, Cream, and Batter 
Composition and nutritive value. Experiments with cream, butter, 
buttermilk; sweet milk, sour milk; cheese; absorption of odors. 
Recipes for junkets, custards, puddings. Food value of baked cus- 
tard, rice pudding with eggs. References 82 

CHAPTER VII 
Cheese 
Composition and nutritive value. Recipes for cheeise. (Experi- 
ments, see Chapter VI.) Food value of macaroni and cheese, rice 
with cheese and tomatoes. References 95 

CHAPTER VIII 

Sggs, Souffles, and Croquettes 
Composition and nutritive value. Experiments. Recipes for eggs. 
Food value of scrambled eggs. Recipes for soufH^s. Experiments 
with fats for frying. Recipes for croquettes. Score card for cro- 
quettes. References 107 

CHAPTER IX 
Meats, Stock Soups, and Gelatin 
Quality of good meat Composition and nutritive value. Pre- 
served meat. Miat experiments. Cuts of beef, veal, lamb and mut- 



Digitized by 



Google 



CX)NTENTS IX 

PAGE 

ton, pork. Soups. Recipes for stock soups ; recipes for meats ; 
meat sauces. Score card for roast of meat Gelatin. Composition 
and nutritive value. Experiments with gelatin. Gelatin desserts. 
Food value of snow pudding. Score card for gelatin desserts. 
References 123 

CHAPTER X 

Poultry 

Quality. Composition and digestibility. Dressing and cleaning 
poultry. Trussing poultry. Directions for boning poultry or birds. 
Recipes for poultry : sauces 153 

CHAPTER XI 

Fish and Shellfish 

Classes of fish. Freshness of fish. Composition and nutritive 
value. Preserved fish. Vegetables suitable for serving with fish as 
a garnish. Sauces for fish. Fish in combination with other food. 
Cleaning fish. Boning fish. Methods of cooking. Aim in cooking 
fish. Recipes for fish. Fish sauces. Food value of creamed cod- 
fish on toast Shellfish: oysters, clams, scallops, lobsters, crabs. 
Recipes. References 158 

CHAPTER XII 

Flour Mixtures 

Composition and nutritive value. Experiments with flour, bread, 
muffins, baking powder biscuits, pastry, cake. Experiments with 
leavens: sodium bicarbonate, yeasts. Classification of flour mix- 
tures. References 172 

CHAPTER XIII 

Batters and Doughs 

Recipes : bread, light, quick ; rolls, sticks, buns. Score cards for 
bread, raised biscuits ; recipes for baking powder biscuits, variations 
in baking powder biscuits. Food value of baking powder biscuits. 
Score card for baking powder biscuits. Recipes for griddlecakes 
and waffles ; timbale cases ; fritters ; doughnuts ; muffins. Food 



Digitized by 



Google 



X CONTENTS 

PAGB 

value of plain muffins. Score card for muffins. Recipes for pop- 
overs, cream puffs, flour pastes. Classification of cookies. Recipes 
for cookies. Food value of molasses cookies, hermits. Score card 
for rolled cookies, dropped cookies 189 



CHAPTER XIV 
Cake 

General rules for mixing. General rules for baking. Recipes for 
butter cakes, molasses cakes, sponge cakes, angel food cakes. Food 
values of hot water gingerbread, chocolate cake, hot water sponge 
cake. Score cards for loaf cake, layer cake, sponge cake. Recipes 
for cooked frostings ; uncooked frostings ; cake fillings . . . 218 



CHAPTER XV 
Pastry 

Recipes for plain paste; pufif paste; cheese straws; fillings for 
pies. Score cards for two-crust pie, one-crust pie, one-crust pie and 
meringue 235 



CHAPTER XVI 
Flour Mixtures using Sour Milk, Buttermilk, Sour Cream 

Recipes for breads, puddings, cakes, cookies, gingerbread, dough- 
nuts 243 

CHAPTER XVII 
Salads and Sandwiches 

Classification of salad greens, salad foundations, variations in salad 
dressings. Service of salads. To prepare salad greens. Combina- 
tions for salads. Food values of vegetable salad, romaine or lettuce 
salad. General rules for sandwiches. Classification of conveyors for 
filling ; classification of fillings. Food value of whole wheat bread 
and cheese sandwiches , . 248 



Digitized by 



Google 



CONTENTS XI 

CHAPTER XVIII 
Salad Dressings 

PAGB 

Experiments. Recipes for French dressing and variations ; cream 
dressing; boiled dressing; mayonnaise dressing. Food values of 
mayonnaise dressing, French dressing, boiled dressing. References 260 

CHAPTER XIX 
Desserts 

Recipes for steamed puddings, pudding sauces. Experiments with 
frozen desserts. Classification of frozen desserts. Recipes for frozen 
desserts ; ice creams, ices, sherbets, frappes, mousses. Food values 
of vanilla ice cream, milk sherbet * Score card for sherbets and ices ; 
Philadelphia ice cream ; custard ice cream. References for ice cream 266 

CHAPTER XX 
Sugar and Candy 

Composition and nutritive value of sugar. Experiments with sugar. 
General directions for fondant Directions for using fondant Reci- 
pes for candy, candied orange peel, salted almonds. References for 
sugar . . 284 

CHAPTER XXI 

Recipes for Fifty Servings 

Recipes for beverages, fruits, cereals, vegetables, cream soups, 
stock soups, meats, meat substitutes, fish, flour mixtures, salads, des- 
serts, frozen desserts 295 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS 
AND COOKERY 



CHAPTER I 
BEVERAGES 

Beverages are mixtures of liquids and flavoring material and 
may be classified as acid, albuminous, starchy, and stimulating. 
Acid beverages are lemonade, orangeade, grapejuice, and fruit 
pimch. Albuminous beverages are liquids to which is added 
egg albimiin, egg yolk, or milk. Starchy beverages are cereals 
cooked in a large quantity of water, as a gruel strained and 
cooked. Stimulating beverages are tea, coffee, cocoa, cocoa 
shells, and chocolate. 

Food value of beverages. Acid beverages are valuable be- 
cause of organic acids and mineral matter (" ash constituents ") 
present. Also because of sugar which is naturally contained 
as well as that usually added, the stimulation of peristaltic 
action, the diuretic action, and lastly the appetizing odor and 
taste. 

Albuminous and starchy beverages are valuable because of 
their increased nutritive value, and because they may be easily 
taken. Such beverages are primarily designed for invalids, and 
a considerable amount of nutriment can be taken in this form 
in the course of a day, especially as milk can be added and the 
nutritive value of a starchy drink thus greatly increased. 



Digitized by 



Google 



2 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Stimulating beverages are valuable because of the food value 
of cream or milk and sugar usually served with them. Also 
because various food products, as bread, rolls, toast, cookies, 
crullers, cake, often accompany the beverage. 

The stimulant of tea, coffee, or chocolate when taken in strict 
moderation is usually not harmful to adults, but is often re- 
freshing and not followed by the depression which follows the 
stimulating effect of alcohol. 

For description of beverages and standards of piuity see 
Sherman's Food ProduciSy pages 436-438 and 465-469. 

Methods of serving beverages. Beverages to be served cold 
should be cooled in the refrigerator or ice cream freezer but 
should not have ice put in them. 

Beverages to be served hot should be served fresh from the 
fire and should not be reheated. Where boiling water is to be 
used, it should be fresh water boiled and not reboiled water. 
Tea and coffee should be made in a receptacle which can be 
tightly covered, as it is the aroma which we wish to preserve. 

Fruit beverages may be served with the grated rind of fruit, 
slices of fruit, small fruits as strawberries and cherries, whole 
cloves, apoUinaris water, or vichy water. 

Stimulating beverages may be served hot, cold, or partly 
frozen. 

Tea may be served with milk, sugar, slices of lemon or orange, 
whole cloves or lime drops. 

Coffee may be served with hot milk, cream, sugar. 

Chocolate may be served with milk, cream (whipped or un- 
whipped), sweetened chocolate grated and sprinkled on top of 
cream, marshmallow, stick cinnamon. 

Fruit acids. The characteristic acids of fruits are as follows : 
lemons and oranges, citric acid; apples, malic acid; grapes, 
potassiiun acid tartrate. 

The characteristic alkaloids found in stimulating beverages 
are for tea, theine ; coffee, caffeine ; chocolate, theobromine. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BEVERAGES 3 

The theine of tea has been found identical with the caffeine 
of coffee. Tannin of tea influences its taste. (See experiments 
with tea.) Caffetannic acid influences the flavor of coffee. 
The flavor of both tea and coffee is doubtless also influenced 
by the volatile oils which they both contain but which are 
largely lost on long boiling. 

Of tea, coffee, and chocolate, the latter has much the highest 
food value. 

EXPERIMENTS 
Tea 

1. — Prepare four cups of tea, A, B, C, D, in the following manner 
(use black tea) : 

A. I level tsp. tea, i c. boiling water (note the temperature 
at which the water boils). Pour the boiling water through the tea 
leaves, but do not allow the leaves to remain in the cup. 

B. I level tsp. tea, i c. boiling water. Pour the boiling 
water over the tea leaves and allow it to stand over the leaves $ 
minutes. Decant off the infusion. 

C. Repeat B, but do not decant the infusion. Allow it to 
cool and then reheat it. 

D. I level tsp. tea, i c. boiling water. Pour the boiling 
water over the leaves and continue the boiling for 5 minutes. 

Ifote the color, odor, and taste of each cup of tea. 

2. — a. Test 2 tbsp. of each cup of tea with 5 drops of lead acetate 
solution.* 

b. What change occurs? 

c. To what is this change due? 

d. Which method of making tea brings the most tannin into 
the infusion? 

* Lead acetate solution. Dissolve 18 gm. of lead aceta(e in 70 can. of hot dis- 
tilled water ; to this add 1 1 gm. of lead oxide. Boil the mixture for 30 minutes with 
occasional stirring, allow it to settle for a few minutes, and decant the dear liquid. 
Add enough distilled water to make the volume up to 81 ccm. For ordinary use 
take I part of this solution to 4 parts distilled water. This solution is used as 
a precipitant in testing infusions and fruit juices. 



Digitized by 



Google 



4 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

3. -r- Compare characteristics of black and green tea by preparing 
by the best method a cup of tea made from black tea and one made 
from green tea. Use for each cup — 

I tsp. tea I c. boiling water 

4. — Compare various kinds of black tea by preparing a cup of 
tea from each of the following : 

" English Breakfast " Orange Pekoe 

Flowery Pekoe Oolong 

Coffee 
Have ready the following : 

A. Coffee pot. 

B. Coffee pot and aluminimi cup with perforated sides. 

C. Coffee pot and cloth bag. 

D. Percolator. 

I powdered 
pulverized 
finely ground 

6.* — a. Use : coffee pots A, B, C, and percolator D. 

powdered 
2 tbsp. coffee pulverized 

finely groimd 

Use first the finely groimd coffee, add i cup of cold water, 
place in the coffee pots and in the percolator, heat until the boiling 
point is reached. Boil 2 minutes, allow the beverage to stand with- 
out cooking 5 minutes. 

h. Note the color, deamess, odor, flavor. 

6. — a. Repeat 6 a, using pulverized and powdered coffee in turn. 

h. Compare the results as to efficiency. 

c. Compare the results as to color, deamess, odor, flavor, 
oiliness. 

* For convenience of reference experiments are numbered consecutively through- 
out the book. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BEVERAGES S 

7. — Repeat the above experiments, boiling the coffee in each 
instance 4 minutes, 6 minutes, 10 minutes in turn. 

8. — a. Prepare coffee by the methods used in 7 (boiling 4, 6, 10 
minutes), but before putting the coffee into the utensil add i tbsp. 
egg white. Note : Part of the class use § egg shell. 

b. Note the color, clearness, odor, flavor, oiliness. 

c. Does the egg white or shell produce any improvement? 
Explain. 

d. By what other method may coffee be cleared? 

9. 7— a. Prepare coffee in the utensils used in the previous ex- 
periments. Try each of the coffees in succession. Use 2 tbsp. coffee 
and pour upon it i cup of vigorously boiling water. Do not allow 
beverage to boil, but sinmier for i minute. 

b. Compare the results in each case as before. 

10. — Prepare coffee as in 5 a using i c. boiling water instead of 
cold water. Allow the coffee to boil 4, 6, 10 minutes and compare 
with that made by other methods. 

Which method and which utensils produce the most accept- 
able beverage? 

Is it possible to produce good results by more than one method? 

For each utensil which method is best and to what stage should 
the coffee be groimd? 

11. — a. Test 2 tbsp. of coffee infusion made by each method 
with 5 drops of lead acetate. See page 3. 

b. Is the presence of tannic acid shown? 

c. By which method of making coffee is the most produced? 

Cocoa and Chocolate 

Prepare a ^aste of 2 tsp. cocoa and 2 tbsp. hot water. Use this 
to correspond with i sq. chocolate. 

Perform each experiment first with cocoa, then with chocolate. 

12. — a. Prepare cocoa and chocolate using : 

2 tsp. cocoa paste fie. water 

I c. cold liquid < 
i sq. chocolate [ i c. milk 



Digitized by 



Google 



6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

b. Pour the cold liquid on to the paste or chocolate. Cook 
in the double boiler $ minutes after the liquid is hot. 

c. Compare each as to flavor, sweetness, color. 

d. What is the result when cold liquid is added to the paste 
or chocolate? 

e. Is this a desirable method of preparing cocoa or chocolate ? 

13. — Prepare cocoa and chocolate using the paste and i sq. 
chocolate by heating the liquid first. Cook in the double boiler 5, 
10, 15 minutes, testing flavor and consistency at each stage. 

14. — Prepare a paste of the chocolate by melting it over hot 
water and adding 2 tsp. hot water to J sq. chocolate. 

a. Use the cocoa and chocolate paste and prepare bever- 
ages using I c. hot milk for each. Pour the hot liquid slowly on to 
the paste, mixing it in thoroughly each time until a smooth, brown 
mixture results. Cook this in a double boiler 15 to 20 minutes. 
Note the flavor and consistency as compared with previous methods. 

b. To this last beverage add 2 drops vanilla and a grain or 
two of salt. Is the flavor improved? Why? 

c. Beat the beverage with a Dover egg beater. Result? 
How do you explain the frothy consistency which results? 
What differences are noted between cocoa and chocolate as bever- 
ages? How are these accounted for? 

Hot Tea 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. tea 4 c. boiling water 

Method: 

Follow the method which was found most desirable in the experi- 
ments. 



Cold Tea I 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. tea 2 qt. cold water 

Method : 

Put tea in a pitcher or glass jar, turn in the cold water and allow it 
to stand overnight in the refrigerator. Decant the liquid from the 
leaves and serve ice cold. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BEVERAGES 7 

Cold Tea n 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. tea 4 c. boiling water 

4 c. cold water 
Method : 

Prepare tea and boiling water as for hot tea. Dilute the infusion 
with the 4 cups of cold water. Decant from the tea leaves, allow 
the liquid to cool, and serve ice cold. 

Note: a. Cold tea is more appetizing if it is served about one half as 
strong as hot tea. 

b. In preparing hot tea use only water which is fresh and just 

beginning to boil. 

c. Do not use a tin teapot ; use a tea ball, crockery or china teapot. 

d. Do not use tea leaves a second time. 

e. Never allow tea to boil. 

/. Do not allow tea to stand over the tea leaves after steeping has 
been accomplished. If tea has to be kept hot for a time, 
turn the infusion from the leaves. 



Black Coffee 

Ingredients : 

I c. cofifee i egg 

J c. cold water 5 c. boiling water 

I c. cold water 
Method: 

Mix coffee, i c. cold water, and egg together, let stand ten minutes 
in coffee pot. Pour in boiling water and boil gently for five minutes. 
Remove to warm part of stove, add J c. cold water, pouring some of 
it down the spout of coffee pot. Serve at once. 



Cocoa 

Ingredtents: 

i c. cocoa I c. water or coffee (hot) 

J c. sugar 3 c. milk (hot) 

Method: 

Mix cocoa and sugar together in a saucepan, pour over the hot 
water or coffee and let boil until a syrup is formed (this cooks the 



Digitized by 



Google 



8 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

starch in the cocoa). Add the hot milk, stirring it in slowly, return 
to a double boiler and let cook 15 to 20 minutes. A few grains of 
salt and a drop of vanilla may be added just before serving. Serve 
with whipped cream or beat to a froth with a Dover beater. 

Chocolate 

Ingredients: 

4 c. milk, 2 oz. chocolate 

or 2 c. milk and } c. sugar 

2 c. water J c. water (hot) 

Method: 

Grate or cut the chocolate into small pieces, place in upper part 
of a double boiler, add the sugar and i c. of hot water. Allow the 
chocolate to melt and cook with the sugar imtil a smooth paste is 
formed. Add the milk or milk and water to this chocolate mixture, 
stirring it constantly with a wooden spoon and adding the liquid very 
slowly. When the liquid has been added, beat it vigorously with the 
Dover egg beater and then allow it to cook 15 to 20 minutes. 

Note : a. If flakes of chocolate appear, the liquid was added in too large 
quantities at a time. 

b. Always pour the liquid into the chocolate paste, otherwise the 

flakes will be sure to appear. 

c. The long cooking of both cocoa and chocolate is necessary because 

of the starch which is characteristic of both. 

d. The flavor of both chocolate and cocoa is improved by allowing it 

to stand 15 to 20 minutes in a warm place after cooking and 
before serving. 

Lemon Whey 
Ingredients : 

I c. hot milk 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

2 tbsp. sugar 
Method: 

Heat the milk in a double boiler. Add the lemon juice. Cook 
without stirring until the whey separates. Strain through cheese- 
cloth, and add the sugar. Serve hot or cold. Garnish with small 
pieces or slice of lemon. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BEVERAGES 9 

Lemonade 
Ingredtents: 

I lemon 2 tbsp. sugar 

I c. boiling water J thin slice lemon 

Method: 

Wash and wipe lemon ; cut a very thin, slice from middle ; use this 

for garnish. Squeeze juice into a bowl (keeping back the seeds), 

add the sugar and boiling water ; cover, and put on ice to keep cool. 

Strain and pour into a glass or sherbet cup. Cut half the slice of 

lemon into two pieces, and use as garnish in glass; a few berries or 

slice of orange may be used. 

Note : The quantity of sugar in lemonade may be varied, depending upon 
the acidity of the fruit. 

Grape Juice and Egg 

Ingredtents: 

I egg I tbsp. sugar 

i c. rich milk i c. grape juice 

i tsp. powdered sugar 
Method: 

Beat the yolk and white separately very light. To the yolk add 
milk, sugar, and grape juice, and pour into glass. To the white add 
a little powdered sugar and a tbsp. of grape juice. Serve on yolk 
mixture. Chill all ingredients before using. 

Oatmeal Water 

Ingredients: 

I tbsp. oatmeal salt 

I tbsp. cold water i qt. boiling water 

Method: 

Mix oatmeal and cold water, add salt, and stir into the boiling 
water. Boil three hours; replenish the water as it boils away. 
Strain through a fine sieve or cheesecloth. Season, serve cold. 
Different brands of oatmeal vary considerably in the amount of 
water which they take up in cooking, and suflSicient should always 
be added to make this drink almost as thin as water. 



Digitized by 



Google 



lO LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Barley Water 

Ingredients : 

I J tbsp. pearl barley i qt. cold water 

salt 
Method: 

Wash barley, add cold water and let soak several hours or over 
night. Drain and add the fresh, cold water, boil gently over direct 
heat two hours, or in a double boiler steadily four hours, down to 
one pint, adding water from time to time ; season with salt. Strain 
through muslin. 

Note : Cream or milk may be added, or lemon juice and sugar. Barley 
water is a slightly astringent or demulcent drink used to re- 
duce laxative condition. 

References 

Bailey. Source, Chemistry, and Use of Food. 

BoLAND. Handbook of Invalid Cookery. 

Friedenwald and Ruhrah. Diet in Health and Disease. 

Hausmann. Home Manufacture and Use of Unfermented Grape 

Juice. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' 

Bulletin No. 175 (1903). 
Kakuzo. The Book of Tea. 
Kellogg, Ella. Science in the Kitchen, Principles of Healthful 

Cookery. 
Leagh. Food Inspection and Analysis. 
Lincoln and Barrows. Home Science Cook Book. 
Meunier, L. Fruit Juices. Ontario Department of Agriculture, 

Fruit Branch Bulletin No. 200 (191 2). 
Pattee. Practical Dietetics with Special Reference to Diet in 

Disease. 
Practical Dietetics. Demonstration Iowa State College Agri- 
culture Extension Department. Short Course Class Notes, 

No. 8. 
Sachse. How to Cook for the Sick. 
Sherman. Food Products. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER II 
FROTTS 

Fruits are divided into five general classes — small fruits, 
orchard fruits, grapes, citrus fruits, and tropical fruits. 

These are available either in the fresh or dried state and all 
may be served raw or cooked. 

Fruits vary greatly in chemical composition. Their value 
in the diet is due chiefly to the ash constituents rather than to 
the protein, carbohydrate, or fat content. (See Sherman's 
Food Products, pages 335-338 for percentage composition and 
pages 347-349 for percentage of ash in the edible portion.) 

When their energy value (due chiefly to carbohydrates) and 
their relative richness in certain important ash constituents 
are considered, the staple fruits are found to be more econom- 
ical articles of food than is generally recognized. Except near 
the regions where grown, the dried fruits are usually more 
economical than the fresh. 

The dietetic value of fruits is greater than could be inferred 
from the percentage composition alone, because of their refresh- 
ing and other desirable qualities which cannot as yet be sub- 
jected to quantitative measurement. The agreeable " ethe- 
real " and acid flavors of fruit are helpful to appetite and 
doubtless also to digestion. 

Fruit may be either a laxative or an astringent or both, as 
in the case of fruits which contain astringent substance in the 
skin, while the pulp is laxative. Fruit is also valuable for its 
antiscorbutic property and often seems to act as a ijaild and 



Digitized by 



Google 



12 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

beneficial diuretic. The cellulose is useful in giving bulk to the 
food residues and preventing their stagnation in the intestine. 

A given fruit often shows quite different properties at differ- 
ent stages in ripening, the most distinct changes in composi- 
tion being usually a decrease in acid and starch with an increase 
in sugar content. Pectin substances present in underripe fruits 
cause fruit juices to jelly. 

The desirability of increasing the use of fruit as food and the 
variety of attractive properties possessed by fruits and fruit 
products, lend special interest to the subject of fruit cookery. 

General rules for preparation: 

Small and soft fruits need careful handling when washed. Fill 
bowl with cold water, put fruit in and remove with strainer or per- 
forated spoon in order not to crush. 

Hard fruits, if small, may be washed in a colander under running 
water, or if large wiped with a damp cloth. 

Decayed spots, bruises, or worm holes shoiild be removed, prefer- 
ably with a silver knife. 

Cover pared fruits with cold water imtil ready to cook. 

Oranges, lemons, and grapefruit should be scrubbed with a brush ; 
bananas peeled and scraped, raspberries and blackberries removed 
from baskets with a fork to avoid crushing. 

Dried fruits should be examined and washed in several waters. 

Reasons for cooking fruit : 

To soften cellulose. 

In some instances to insure digestibility. 

To further variety in serving. 

In some instances to destroy bacteria. 

How to purchase : 

Fruits are economical when purchased in season, and if storage fa- 
cilities allow, should be bought in quantity. Freshness and cleanli- 
ness should receive first consideration. Dried fruits may take the 
place of fresh fruits when the latter are not in season. The cost of 
fruits varies with locality — study the market in yoiu: own section. 



Digitized by 



Google 



FRUITS 13 

EXPERIMENTS 

Apple 

16.* — Grate an apple into a bowl. With a wooden spoon 
thoroughly mash the solid matter with the juice. 
What change in color is observed? 

16. — Add about 2 tbsp. of water to the mixture obtained in Expt. 
15, and strain the liquid through wet cheesecloth into a bowl. Filter 
the juice through a wet fluted filter and keep it for Expt. 17 and 18 
below. To portions of the apple pulp apply : 

a. The Millon test ^ for protein. 

b. The iodine test for starch.^ 

17. — To small portions of the clear filtered apple juice obtained 
in Expt. 16, apply the following tests : 

a. Heat about 10 cc. to boiling in a test tube and notice 
whether coagulation takes place. Filter through a wet fluted paper 
and test the residue on the paper by adding a few drops of nitric 
acid. If protein is present, it will be turned yellow by the nitric acid. 

b. Test for starch by adding iodine solution. (The portion 
of solution to which this test is applied must be cool.) 

c. Test for " reducing sugars " by mixing a small amoimt of 
the clear juice with an equal volimie of the Fehling-Benedict * solution, 
allow to stand a minute and note any change of color, then boil for 
two minutes. (Reference should be made to Leach's Food Inspection 

1 For convenience the experiments are numbered consecutively throughout the 
book. 

* MiUon^s reagent: One part, by weight, of mercury dissolved in two parts of 
strong nitric add. Dilute the solution with twice its bulk of water. After standing 
24 hours, the supernatant liquid should be decanted from the precipitate. Proteins 
are colored red by this solution. Warming aids the development of the color. 

' Starch, iodine reaction: To the material to be tested for starch add a few drops 
of iodine solution (iodine dissolved in a water solution of potassium iodide). A 
blue, violet, or purple color indicates the presence of starch. 

* FehHng-Benedict solution: 

34.65 gm. crystallized copper sulphate made up to 500 cc. with distilled water. 

173 gm. Rochelle salt 1 j ^ -^u j- x-n j 

, J ,. . X ?- made up to 500 cc. with distilled water. 

100 gm. anhydrous sodium carbonate j 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



14 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

and Analysis, Sherman's Organic Analysis, or Woodmann's Food 
Analysis.) 

d. Test for proteins by means of MiUon's reagent, making 
the test as closely comparable with that of the pulp as possible. 

18. — Preparation of pectin.^ 

a. Neutralize the remaining apple juice with a sufficient 
quantity of caustic soda (sodium hydroxide) solution. 

b. Heat the neutral fluid to boiling to complete the coagu- 
lation of the protein. 

c. Filter on a wet fluted paper while the liquid is hot. 

d. To the cold filtrate in a beaker or glass add alcohol, little 
by little, in sufficient quantity to produce a bulky, gelatinous precipi- 
tate of pectin. An equal volume of alcohol may be required. (Save 
this for Expt. 19.) 

19. — Properties of pectin. Continidng the work begun in Expt. 18 : 

a. Allow the alcohol to evaporate after decanting off as much 
as possible. 

b. Dissolve the pectin in water and concentrate by heating. 

c. Turn into beaker and let cool. The gelatinizing power 
of pectin will be shown. 

Note : Other fruits or vegetables may be used to further demonstrate the 
above principles. Compare the experiments on vegetables, 
jellies, and gelatin described in later chapters. 

20. — Decay of fruit (A). Place in a jar a niunber of apples that 
have been bniised or cut, packing them in rather tightly. Scatter 
in the jar some spores of the common mold which will usually 
be foimd on moldy lemon. Close the jar and set aside. Prepare 
a second jar with some whole clean apples and treat in the same 
way. Compare the two jars for a week or two to see if decay makes 
its appearance in either or both of the jars. Does bruising hasten 
the decay of the f nut ? 

1 Pectin, to which the essential gelatinous consistency of fruit jellies is due, is a 
substance belonging to the group of carbohydrates. It is entirely different from 
gelatin, which is a peculiar protein obtained from bone and other animal tissues and 
forms the basis of animal jellies. 



Digitized by 



Google 



FRUITS 15 

21. — Decay of fruit (B). Make a cut through the skin of an 
apple with a knife blade that has been previously dipped into the 
midst of a mass of mold spores. Put the apple aside in a jar and 
examine carefully imtil it decays. Note that the decay begins rather 
quickly and starts at the point of the cut where the spores were 
inoculated. 

22. — Experiment, Apple Sauce 

I apple 2 tbsp. sugar 

5 tbsp. water \ tsp. nutmeg 

Prepare apple sauce by paring and slicing the apple and cooking 
it in the water imtil soft. Let half the class (a) add sugar at begin- 
ning of process ; the other half (6) add sugar at end of process. 

Use the thermometer constantly and compare the temperature 
throughout the making of the apple sauce. 

Accoimt for differences in color, taste, and consistency. 

23. Experiment. Baked Apple 

Prepare baked apples in the following ways : in each case core and 
fill cavity with sugar. 

a. Wash and remove skin from apple. Bake in slow oven. 
(Temperature?) 

6. Repeat with a second apple but bake in a hot oven. 
(Temperature?) 

c. Wash and core third and fourth apples. Do not remove 
skin. Bake one in slow, and one in hot oven. 

d. Wash and core fifth and sixth apples. Make a slit aroimd 
each apple, through the skin. Bake one in a hot oven, one in slow. 

Which method and temperature produces best result ? 



Digitized by 



Google 



l6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Baked Apples 

Ingredients : 

8 apples i c. sugar 

I tsp. cimxamon 
Method: 

Select apples of imiform size. Wipe and core apples. Make an 
incision in the skin to allow steam to escape, place in baking dish, 
and fill cavities with sugar and spice. Surround apples with boiling 
water and bake in a hot oven imtil soft, basting frequently. 

Variations 

The apples may be pared before coring. The cores may be filled 
with : 

brown sugar sugar and lemon juice 

raisins and nuts sugar and orange juice 

cooked prunes and nuts cooked oatmeal and raisins 

jelly uncooked custard 

Steamed Apples 

Wipe, pare, and core apples. Place in double boiler, cover and 
steam imtil apples are soft. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Apples-in-Bloom 

Wipe and core red apples. Steam imtil tender and remove skins. 
The apples should be pink when steamed.- 

Apple Sauce 

Ingredtents: 

8 apples water 

I c. sugar nutmeg 

Method: 

Wipe, pare, and slice apples. Cook in a small amoimt of water 
until soft, add sugar and cook until sugar dissolves. Strain. Grate 
nutmeg over the sauce. 



Digitized by 



Google 



FRurrs 17 

Stewed Apples 

Ingredients: 

8 apples I c. water 

I c. sugar 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

Method: 

Wipe and pare apples. Core and cut in halves, quarters, eighths, 
or circles, or cut in balls with vegetable cutter. Place in cold water 
while preparing a sirup of the sugar and water by boiling 3 minutes. 
Cook apples, a few at a time, in the sirup until soft. Remove all 
sirup, add lemon juice, and boil until thick. Strain the thick sirup 
and pour it upon the apples. 

Baked Bananas 

Peel bananas, scrape with silver knife, and cut in halves length- 
wise. Place on buttered pan, sprinkle with sugar and lemon juice, 
and bake in a slow oven irntil soft, basting often with the sirup. 

Bananas may also be baked in the skins. 

Baked Crabapples 

Crabapples should be left whole. If cooked slowly enough the 
liquid in the pan will form a red jelly. This should be served with 
the crabapples. 

Baked Quinces 

Ingredients: 

8 quinces } c. sugar 

ij c. water. 
Method: 

Wipe, quarter, core and pare quinces. Put in a baking dish, 
sprinkle with sugar, add the water, cover and cook imtil soft in a slow 
oven. 

Baked Pears 

Ingredients: 

8 pears i c. sugar 

I c. water 
Method: 

Same as for quinces. Small pears may be baked whole/. 



Digitized by 



Google 



l8 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Cranberry Sauce 

Ingredtents: 

I qt. cranberries 2 c. sugar 

2 c. water 
Method: 

Remove bruised berries, wash others in a strainer, and cook them in 
water imtil they begin to burst. Add sugar and cook until thoroughly 
soft. Skim. 

Cranberry Jelly 

Ingredtents: 

I qt. cranberries 2 c. sugar 

I c. water 
Method: 

Cook cranberries in water until soft and press through a strainer. 
Add sugar to the pidp. Stir until sugar dissolves, then boil imtil it 
will jelly when dropped on a cold plate. Pour into molds previously 
wet with cold water. 

Spiced Cranberry Jelly 

Ingredients: 

I qt. cranberries 12 cloves 

1 c. water 3 allspice berries 

2 c. sugar small piece cinnamon 

i tsp. salt 
Method: 

Tie spices in cheesecloth. Cook with berries and water until 
berries are soft. Strain, and proceed as for cranberry jelly. 

Dried Fruit 

General Rides. 

1. Wash quickly in several waters. 

2. Soak in cold water overnight. 
a. Shortens time of cooking. 
6. Develops better flavor. 

c. Lessens amoimt of sugar required. 

3. Cook in this water imtil tender, using flame or the fireless 
cooker. 

4. Add sugar to softened fruit and cook a few minutes longer. 



Digitized by 



Google 









FRUITS 






Ingredients: 






Prunes 






' I lb. prunes 
I tbsp. lemon 


juice 


i c. sugar 


I qt. water 

I tbsp. orange juice 


Ingredients: 
lib. 


apricots 




Apricots 


iqt. 


water 



19 



i c. sugar 

NUTRITIVE VALUES OF COOKED FOODS 

Because of variable changes in water content during cook- 
ing, as well as variations in recipes used, it is not satisfactory to 
attempt general statements of composition of cooked foods 
and as a rule only raw foods are included in the standard 
tables. It is, however, entirely feasible for the student of 
cookery in any given operation to weigh the ingredients and 
the final product and calculate the composition and food 
value of the latter. Full directions and data for such cal- 
culations will be foimd in Rose's Laboratory Handbook for 
Dietetics, 

To illustrate and encourage such calculations the food values 
of typical cooked foods will be shown at intervals throughout 
this book and it is recommended that the laboratory work in 
cookery be made to include the accurate weighing of the fin- 
ished product and the calculation of its food value in as many 
cases as possible. 

For the sake of completeness and because of the im- 
portance now attached to these three elements, the food 
values here given include data for calcium, phosphorus, and 
iron. When time is limited, the protein, fat, carbohy- 
drates, calories, and cost may be calculated without the ash 
constituents. 



,< 



Digitized by 



Google 



20 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



EXAMPLES OF CALCULATED FOOD VALUES 
Apple Sauce 



Material 






d 



c3§ 

L. - wO 

^3 



11 

If 



tHCU 



Apples 
Sugar . 
Water . 

Total cooked 
loo-Calorie 
Portion 



, 3 
^.6 tbsp. 



159 
8o.2 



.64 



.79 



22.58 
80.2 



100 
321 



.034 
.0106 



.05 



0005 



rie \ 
ml j 



fc. 
3 tbsp. 



239.2 
56.95 



.64 
.15 



.79 
.19 



102.78 
24.47 



421 
100 



.0446 
,0106 



.022 
.005 



.05 
.012 



0005 
.0001 



Stewed Prunes 



Prunes . . 
Sugar . . . 
Water . . . 


25 
5i tbsp. 

2C. 


226.8 
75 


4.08 




141.07 
75 


580 
300 


.06 
.008 


.116 


.464 


.0052 


Total cooked 

loo-Calorie 1 

Portion 1 J 


lie. 
3 prunes 
H- sirup 


538 
60.7 


4.08 
.46 


216.07 
24.42 


880 
100 


.068 
.008 


.116 
.013 


.464 
.052 


.0052 
.0006 



References 

Hausmann. Home Manufacture and Use of Unfermented Grape 

Juice. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' 

Bvdletin, 644 (191 5). 
Langworthy. Raisins, Figs and other Dried Fruits and Their 

Use. United States Department of Agriculture, Yearbook 

for 191 2, pages 505-522. 
Langworthy. Use of Fruits as Food. United States Department 

of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, No. 293 (1907). 

1 Also called Standard Portion (S. P.) 



Digitized by 



Google 



FRUITS 21 

Langworthy and Milner. Some Results Obtained in Studying 
Ripening Bananas with the Respiration Calorimeter. Year- 
book of U. S. Department of Agriculture for 191 2. 

Milan and Gardner. Comparative Cooking Qualities of Some of 
the Common Varieties of Apples Grown in Oregon. Oregon 
Agricultural College Experiment Station, Bulletin No. 124. 

Morse. The Cold Storage of Apples. New Hampshire College 
Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin No. 93 (1902). 

Rose, Flora. Preservation of Food in the Home. * Part i, Cornell 
Reading-courses. Food Series No. 4. 

Scott. Fruit Addition to the Diet of the Growing Child. Ameri- 
can Medicine, vol. 19, pages 416-420 (1913). 

Sherman. Food Products. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER III 
CANNING AND PRESERVING 

Fruit 

Fruit and vegetables may be preserved when in season for 
use out of season by the following methods: 

I. canning, various methods 2. preserving, various stages 

3. jelly making 4. pickling 

5. spicing 6. salting 

7. drying 

All fruits and vegetables are not prepared in the same way. 
Suitable for canning are : 



a. Fruits 






pears 


plums 


strawberries 


peaches 


pineapple 


raspberries 


apricots 


cherries 


blueberries 


apples 


blackberries 




b. Vegetables 






peas 


carrots 


beans 


com 


asparagus 
tomatoes 


beets 


Fruits suitable for 


preserving are : 




a. Preserve 






strawberries 


quince 


blackberries 


large currants 


grapes 


cranberries 


plums 


gooseberries 





Digitized by 



Google 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 



23 



b. Jam 








strawberries 


grapes 




blackberries 


plums 


raspbe: 


rries 


currants 


elderberries 


cranberries 




c. Marmalades 








apricot 






cranberry 


plums 






grapefruit 


peaches 






lemon 


apple -^ sweet. 


, sour 




quince 


crabapple 






orange 




yellow tomato 




d. Butters 








crabapple 






apple 


quince 






grape 


e. " Honey " (so called) 






sweet apple 


lemon 




quince 


grapefruit 


yellow tomato 


kumquat 


/. Conserves 








plums, oranges, and lemon 


peach. 


currants, lemon 


plums, lemon, raisins 


pears. 


lemon, ginger root 


grapes, lemon 




prunes 


, lemon, orange 


raisins, rhubarb 




orange 


, grapefruit, lemon 


figs, rhubarb 




kumquat, orange 


peach, lemon, orange 


cranberries, lemon, raisins 


nuts in combination with any 


of the above 


Fruits suitable for jelly making 


; are: 




a. Very juicy fruits 








strawberries 






elderberries 


raspberries 






plums 


blackberries 






currants 



grapes, cultivated and wild 



Digitized by 



Google 



24 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

b. Less juicy fruits 

peaches quince 

apricots cranberries 

apples — sweet, sour, crabapple 



Fruits suitable for 


pickling are : 








tomatoes — red, yellow 


peaches 






blackberries 




pears 






cucumbers 




peppers - 


-red. 


green 


Vegetables suitable for pickling 


are: 






cauliflower 




beets 






cabbage 




onions 






Fruits suitable for 


spicing are : 








blackberries 




pears 






peaches 




red tomatoes 





Fruits suitable for salting are : 

cucumbers, large and small 



Fruits suitable for i 


drying are 


• 




currants 






apricots 


grapes 






plums 


peaches 






primes 


pears 






cranberries 




apples — 


sweet, sour 


Fruits suitable for beverages 


are; 




grapes 






apples — sweet, sour 


currants 






cherries 


raspberries 






lemons 


elderberries 






oranges 



Digitized by 



Google 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 25 

Preservation of fniits is secured by : 

' I. Heat and exclusion of air 
Ex. — canned peaches 

2. Exclusion of air but heat not necessary because the mate- 

rial itself is strongly acid. 
Ex. — canned tomato, canned rhubarb 

3. Strong acids. 

Ex. — pickled pears 

4. Strong brine 

Ex. — salted cucumbers 

5. Heavy solution of sugar. 

Ex. — preserves, jams, conserves, butters, honey, jellies. 

Relation to MicroSrganisms 

All the above methods of preserving fruits and vegetables 
depend upon either destroying, or preventing the action of 
microorganisms which would cause the food to ferment, decay, 
or become moldy. 

The microorganisms which thus spoil or injure food are cer- 
tain species of the three groups : 

a. Molds. 

b. Yeasts. 

c. Bacteria. 

Molds are seen often as yellow, green, or white growths, very 
beautiful in color and arrangement, upon lemons, oranges, 
bread, jams, jellies, and sirups. 

Some typical forms often found on food are : 

bread mold — Mucor stolonif er 

green cheese mold, or blue mold — Penicillium glaucum 



Digitized by 



Google 



26 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

mold of decaying vegetation : 
blue green — Aspergillus f umigatus 
yellow — Aspergillus flavescens 
black — Aspergillus niger. 

Yeasts cannot usually be seen without the microscope, but 
evidence of their work is shown by fermentation of fruit juices 
accompanied by bubbles of gas or a loud pop when a cork or 
cover is removed. 

Bacteria are all too small to be seen without a good micro- 
scope. The work of bacteria is shown generally by a disa- 
greeable sour taste often accompanied by an impleasant odor 
with or without an evolution of gas. 

The following experiments will illustrate the work of molds, 
yeasts, and bacteria, but the detailed study of these organisms 
and the changes which they bring about in food materials is a 
science in itself and one of the greatest interest and importance 
to all students of foods and cookery. The reading and study 
of Buchanan's Household Bacteriology (which treats of the 
yeasts and molds as well as the bacteria of economic impor- 
tance) is especially recommended. 

EXPERIMENTS 

24. — Collection of mold for study. 

a. Expose a piece of moist bread to the air of the room for 
about lo minutes. Keep in a moist chamber and watch for the 
development of mold. A jelly glass inverted over the bread on a 
plate will do for the glass chamber. 

h. Expose a dish containing a freshly opened baked potato 
to the air of the room for about lo minutes. Cover ; keep in locker 
and watch for the development of mold. 

c. Bring into the laboratory anything that you can find on 
which mold is growing. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 2^ 

25. — Description of mold. Describe briefly the general appear^ce 
of these various forms imder a small magnifying glass (15 diam.) 
or imder a dissecting microscope (15 diam.). 

Describe briefly the naked eye appearance of these varioxis molds 
that appear in the laboratory. 

26. — Mold on bread. Place several slices of bread imder a bell 
glass or any dish that will protect it from evaporation. Battery 
jars, large beakers, or even conmion bowls will answer. Moisten the 
bread with water and put aside in a warm place (8o°-90° F.). After 
two or three days the bread will usually show signs of white mold. 
Allow the mold to grow imtil some color appears and then determine, 
if possible, whether there are more than one species of mold on the 
bread. 

27. — Molds on different foods. Under separate bell glasses place 
bits of cheese, some pieces of lemon, and a bit of banana. Each of 
these should be moist. Cover and put aside dish as in the last experi- 
ment. Molds will grow in a few days, but probably different spe- 
cies will grow upon the different materials. Compare the molds and 
determine how many kinds can be seen. 

28. — Experiment to show the mycelium. Place a little fruit juice, 
such as may be obtained from canned fruit, in two tubes or in 
homoeopathic vials and drop a few mold spores from the last experi- 
ment, or a little dust from the floor upon the surface of the liquid. 
Set aside to grow and notice how the molds spread and send fine 
threads into the liquid. Later notice that colored masses of spores 
grow in the air upon the surface of the liquid but not in the liquid 
below. 

29. — Spores. After the molds of the previous experiments have 
begxm to produce spores, as shown by the appearance of some color, 
remove a little spore material from the surface with a knife blade or 
a platinimi wire and examine under a microscope. For this purpose 
a compoimd microscope is necessary, since the spores are very small. 

30. — Growth of mold from spores. Moisten a bit of bread and 
transfer with a platinima wire a little bit of the spore mass from a 
vigorously growing mold to the srrface of the bread. Cover with 



Digitized by 



Google 



28 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

a bell glass and set aside for growth. Examine every day and note 
that molds start from the points where the bread was inoculated with 
the mold spores. 

31. — Mold spores in dust. Melt gelatin ^ in 7 prepared test tubes, 
and pour it from each into sterilized petri dishes. Replace the cover 
upon the dish and allow the gelatin to harden. Label the petri 
dishes A, B, C, D, E, F, and G. Proceed as follows: 

A. Sweep a little dust from the floor and scatter over the 
prepared gelatin in A, Replace the cover and allow the dish to re- 
main in a cupboard imtil molds begin to grow. Note the number of 
hours or days imtil a growth appears. Obtain dust from the follow- 
ing sources and proceed as in ^. 

B. Dust from a crack in the flour. 

C. Shake a dry duster over the gelatin. 

D. Shake a damp duster over the gelatin. 

E. Shake the hem of a skirt over the gelatin. 

F. Expose a plate of gelatin to the air of the room while 
sweeping. 

G. Expose a plate of gelatin to the air of the room 2 hours 
after sweeping and dusting thoroughly. 

Note : The above exp>eriments may be performed using moist bread instead 
of petri dishes of gelatin, but the results are not as impressive. 
Bread can be used, however, if gelatin is not at hand. 

82. — The effect of drying. Place imder separate bell glass two 
slices of bread, one of which is damp, either naturally or slightly 

^Preparation of gelatin culture media: To 100 grams of gelatin add 900 cc. of 
water and about 5 grams of Liebig's Extract of Beef and cook in double boiler for 
5 minutes. While still hot filter the material through absorbent cotton. In using 
absorbent cotton for this purpose, a large funnel should be used and the absorbent 
cotton wet with hot water, placed in it. The liquid is poured into the cotton and it 
will run through readily, coming out as a tolerably clear solution. Some of the fil- 
tered jelly is to be placed in sterilized flasks and some in test tubes, about 10 cc. in 
each. Plug the flasks and test tubes with cotton and steam the jelly in a common 
steamer for 30 minutes. At the end of 24 hours it should again be placed in the 
steamer and steamed for half an hour. Once more set it aside for 24 hours and upon 
the third day steam it again for half an hour and cool. Material thus prepared 
should give a clear, slightly brownish jelly, which, if properly sterilized, will keep 
indefinitely. It should be acid to litmus paper. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 29 

moistened with water, and the other dried. Leave for two or three 
days and notice the effect of drying in preventing the growth of 
molds. If one slice remains dry, no molds will grow upon it though 
the other soon becomes covered. 

88. — The effect of boiling temperature. In each of two test tubes 
of gelatin place a small quantity of mold spores. Melt the gelatin 
in the tubes at as low a heat as will melt it. Pour the contents of 
one tube into a petri dish and cover at once. Place the other tube in 
a beaker of boiling water and allow the water to boil briskly for half 
an hour, after which the gelatin is to be poured into a petri dish and 
treated like that in the first tube. Set both dishes aside for mold 
growth and examine at intervals for several days, noticing whether 
molds develop in both dishes or only in the first. If they grow in 
both, note the relative abimdance in the two dishes. 

84. — Effect of low temperature. Prepare two plates of hardened 
gelatin and sow mold spores upon the surface of each. Leave one 
in the ordinary room temperature and place the other in an ice chest 
or some other place where the temperature is low. Compare day by 
day, and determine the effect of low temperature in checking or 
stopping mold growth. Do any molds grow upon the dish placed 
in the ice chest ? 

35. — Effect of air currents. Moisten a slice of bread and sow 
mold spores upon it, or allow it to mold spontaneously under a bell 
glass. After it shows a luxuriant growth of mold, remove the bell 
glass and leave it exposed to brisk currents of the air. Notice how 
the growth of the mold ceases and the delicate mycelimn flattens 
down dose to the bread. 

36. — Molds in cheese. Obtain a bit of Roquefort cheese. Cut 
it open and remove a bit of the green mass in the middle by means 
of a knife point or platinum wire. Sow this substance upon the 
surface of a dish of hardened gelatin and set aside for growth. 
After two or three days, the molds will begin to develop and may 
be studied with a microscope. When they begin to produce spores, 
they should, if possible, be studied sufficiently to determine the 
species. 



Digitized by 



Google 



30 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

EXPERIMENTS ILLUSTRATING THE ACTION OF 
BACTERIA 

37. — Putrefaction. 

Place in a series of test tubes a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h, with a little cold 
water, the following : 

a — a small piece of chopped raw meat 

b — a small amoimt of white of egg 

c — i tsp. bread flour 

d — i tsp. cornstarch 

e — J tsp. cane sugar 

/ — a small amount of ground dried peas 

g — J tsp. melted butter 

h — J tsp. olive oil. 

Cover each test tube with a piece of cheesecloth or stop with cotton. 

Place all the test tubes together in a warm place for three days and 
watch to determine which will putrefy and in what order. 

Putrefaction can be detected by the disagreeable odor and slimy 
condition of the water. 

38. — Effect of moisture. Place a small amount of the following 
foods in dry test tubes a, b, c, d, e, f. 

In a duplicate series place the same foods, but moisten each with 
water. ' ^ 

Allow aU to remain in a warm place and compare at the end of 3 
days. 

Notice the effect of the water in evidently promoting putrefaction. 

Foods — dry and wet. 
a — dried crushed peas. 
b — oatmeal 
c — bread 

d — entire wheat flour 
e — bread flour 
/ — graham cracker 

39. — Effect of temperature. Place bits of meat with a little water 
in three test tubes. Put the first tube in an ice chest, the second in 



Digitized by 



Google 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 31 

ordinary room temperature, and the third close to a stove or radiator 
where the temperature is high. Notice the rapidity of putrefaction 
in each case. 

40. — Effect of boiling. Chop finely some raw beef and place it in 
water, warming slightly, but not heating it to more than 130® F. 
Divide into two parts, place each in a test tube, setting one aside 
without further treatment, but bringing the other to a brisk boil for 
a moment and then setting beside the first. At the end of twenty 
four hours, examine to determine if putrefaction has occurred. 

Effect of freezing. A visit to a cold storage plant with subse- 
quent discussions will be more beneficial than an experiment to show 
the effect of freezing upon bacteria. 

EXPERIMENTS ILLUSTRATING YEASTS AS RELATED 
TO FRUITS AND SIRUPS 

41. — Fermentation of cider. Grind up a few apples and strain 
the juice from the same by squeezing through cheesecloth. Collect 
the juice in test tubes and allow it to stand for a few days. A fer- 
mentation soon appears and the juice turns. to cider. Examine the 
sediment with a microscope and detect the presence of yeast. Close 
up the tube with a cotton plug and leave it for a number of weeks, 
determining whether it subsequently becomes acid by the develop- 
ment of acetic acid. 

42. — Fermentation of grape juice. Proceed as above, using 
grapes instead of apples. The juice will become wine if fermenta- 
tion occurs properly. 

43. — Effect of temperature. Prepare 3 tubes with molasses and 
water as above described and inoculate each with 3 drops of yeast 
in water. Place one tube in a refrigerator, a second in a moderately 
warm temperature, above 70® F., and a third in a warmer place, 
near a stove or radiator (temp, about 90° F.). Compare the three at 
the end of three, six, and twenty-four hours, and note the effect of 
temperature upon growth. 

44. — Effect of light. Prepare two tubes in the same way and set 
one in a bright light and the other in a dark place. Keep both tubes 



Digitized by 



Google 



32 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

at the same temperature and determine whether light has any effect 
upon the rapidity of growth. 

46. — Make a small cavity in the surface of a glass of jelly. 

Place a drop of fermented grape juice in the cavity, replace the 
paraffin and tin covers, and allow the jelly to remain in a dark cup- 
board. 

Examine after three days and notice the changes which have 
occurred in: 

1. taste 

2. odor 

3. consistency 

46. — a. Allow jelly to remain uncovered for a few minutes after 
it has cooled. Place the tin cover on jelly glass and set aside in 
warm, dark place. 

b. Examine daily for growths which will soon appear. 

c. Try to determine what kinds of mold appear.^ 

d. What is the coral pink mass which will probably appear? 

e. Allow the action of microorganisms to continue until 
the jelly becomes semi-liquid. Place it in a bottle and cork tightly. 

/. Keep the bottle in a warm place and notice the changes 
taking place. 

g. What are the bubbles and froth which' appear when the 
cork is removed? 

h. What microorganisms other than molds have been at 
work? 

47. — a. Partly fill a sterile jar a with hot peaches and sirup just 
ready for canning.. Repeat in a second jar b, 

b. Adjust the rubber band and seal a to keep out the air. 
Omit the rubber band on 6, but clamp down the cover. 

c. Place a and b together with a jar filled and sealed and 
containing no air bubbles in a warm, dark place. Compare daily for 
signs of the action of microorganisms. 

1 An idea of the probable kind may be obtained by noting color and general 
appearance and comparing with what has already been learned. For actual iden- 
tification the "key" at the back of Buchanan's Household Bacteriology will be found 
most useful. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 33 

d. Compare a and b. Why should a show molds when the 
outside air is excluded? 

e. Why does no change occur in the third jar? 

48. — From these experimecfts what conclusions do you make as 
to: 

a. The covering of jelly or jams with hot paraflin or paper 
wet in alcohol. 

b. The exclusion of air or air Rubbles from a canned mixture. 

c. The rate of action of microorganisms in a solution as jam 
or jelly compared with that in a sirup as canned peaches. 

d. In what way can sugar in large amounts act as a partial 
preservative of fruits ? 

Definitions 

As usage differs somewhat the following definitions are given to 
show the sense in which each of the terms is used in this book. 

Canned food — food products preserved in air-tight containers with 
or without heat and addition of sugar or acid. 

Preserves — whole fruit or large pieces of fruit in a heavy solution 
of sugar. 

Jams — fruit which is finely divided or reduced to a pulp in a 
heavy solution of sugar. 

Marmalades — fruit pulp in a finely divided condition to which 
may be added various spices and fruit flavors, together with a smaller 
amoimt of sugar than we fijid in jams. 

Butters — fruit pulp very finely mashed, spiced,.and often flavored 
with lemon. 

" Honey " — fruit sirup with dense solution of sugar but still 
liquid. 

Conserves — mixtures of fruit more or less finely divided in a 
fairly heavy solution of sugar, semi-liquid. 

Juices — fruit juices with or without sugar, lemon, or other flavoring. 

Utensils necessary in Preserving Fruits 
scales 

measuring cup, any material not tin 
saucepan, any material not tin 

D 



Digitized by 



Google 



34 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

new rubbers to fit jars 

perfect covers for jars, — tin, glass 

wooden spoon 

silver knife for removing skins. , 

silver fork for removing bubbles from inside of jar 

jelly bag of heavy material or several thicknesses of cheesecloth 

containers for product 

glass jars stone crocks 

jelly glasses porcelain jars 

glass bottles 

paraffin 

corks 

General Directions 

I. — Canning without sugar. 

a. Wash the jars and place them together with their covers 
in cold or slightly warm water. Bring to the boiling point and allow 
them to boil for 20 minutes. Place a wooden rack in kettle before 
putting in jars. 

b. Wash and prepare the fruit or vegetable in the desired 
shape for canning. 

c. Place the prepared fruit in the sterile jars; do not wipe 
the jars on the inside. Arrange the cover but do not seal ; place the 
jars in warm water and boil or steam the proper length of time for 
the given fruit or vegetables (see recipe). 

n. — Canning with sugar, 

a. Use one third as much sugar as fruit (by weight). 

b. Use 4 c. of water to each lb. of sugar. 

c. Prepare a sirup of the sugar and water by dissolving the 
sugar in the water and boiling the solution one minute. 

d. Canning may be accomplished by the following : 

1 a. Place the prepared fruit in sterile jars, covering fruit 
with the sirup, adjust the cover and steam or boil the required 
length of time for each fruit. 

2 a. Allow the prepared fruit to boil in the sirup until 
pulp is soft. Place fruit in sterile jars as soon as cooked, cover with 
the sirup, remove the air bubbles, cover and seal air-tight. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 35 

ni. — Preserving, 

1. Preserves 

a. Three fourths as much sugar by weight as fruit 
measured by weight. 

b. To each pound of sugar add i c. of water. 

c. Heat water and prepared fruit to the boiling point, 
allow them to boil one minute. 

d. Add the sugar and continue the boiling until the 
sirup is thick. 

2. Jams 

a. Three fourths by weight as much sugar as fruit 
measured by weight. 

b. 2 c. of water to each poimd of sugar. 

c. Boil prepared fruit and water together for 5- min- 
utes. Add the sugar and continue cooking until the sirup jellies. 

Note : Fruits with large seeds should be put through the colander after 
boiling five minutes and before the sugar is added. Rub the 
pulp through carefully, but keep back the seeds. 



by weight. 



Marmalades (in general) 

a. One half by weight as much sugar as fruit measured 



b. Three c. of water to each pound of sugar. 

c. Boil fruit until soft enough to be put through a 
colander, reduce to a pulp, add the sugar, and cook imtil mixture is 
very thick. 

4. Butters 

Practically the same as marmalade. Do not aUow the 
mixture to become as dense as marmalade. 

5. Honey 
special recipes 

6. Conserves 
special recipes 

7. Jellies — 2 methods 

a. Wash and prepare the fruit for cooking, allow it to 
cook in its own juice until very soft. 



Digitized by 



Google 



36 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

b. Strain the juice through a jelly bag (without 
squeezing). 

c. Measure or weigh the juice and add an equal amount 
of sugar or 

a' Allow the fruit to cook in water sufficient to keep 
the pulp from sticking to bottom of saucepan or burning. 

6' Strain the pulp through jelly bag, measure the 
juice, and add sugar in the proportion of J as much sugar as juice. 
Note : The less juicy fruits need to have water added when first cooking. 

8. Fruit juices 

a. Proceed as for jelly imtil the fruit juice is extracted. 
Turn into sterile bottles, seal air-tight immediately. 
Note : Sugar may be added and sirup boiled 2 minutes before sealing. 
2 tbsp. sugar 
I qt. fruit sirup 

General Directions for Canning and Preserving 

Fruit shoidd be fresh, firm, and not over-sized. 

Sterilize jars by washing thoroughly, then placing in a pan of cold 
water and heating gradually to the boiling point. Remove from 
water as needed and turn upside down to drain before filling with fruit. 

Do not dry inside of jars before filling. 

Sterilize rubbers by dipping in boiling water. New rubbers must 
be used each year. 

When cans are filled and sealed, turn upside down and let stand 
for a short time to be sure they are air-tight. If not, sirup will run out. 

If necessary to change fruit from one can to another, always re- 
heat mixture. 

When preparing jellies, jams, or marmalades, sterilize jars as in 
canning but let dry before filling. 

Always seal jellies, jams, and marmalades with paraffin when mix- 
ture is cold and cover paraffin with tin to protect from mice. 

When boiling any fruit or sirup, never aUow it to boil vigorously. 
Always boil it gently that sirup may be clear. 

Note ; Paraffin may be washed, dried, and used again after being removed 
from top of jar. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 37 

,. ^ Canned Peaches I 

IngredtetUs: 

I c. sugar I qt. peaches 

I c. water 
Method: 

Prepare sirup by boiling sugar and water 5 minutes. Wipe peaches 
and put in boiling water long enough to easily loosen skins. Remove 
skins with silver knife. Cut in halves, if large, and remove stones ; 
if small, may be left whole. Pack carefully in sterilized jars, but do 
not crush. Fill can with sirup, adjust covers loosely, and put on a 
rack in a covered pan with water up to the neck of the jars. Steam 
20 minutes, or until soft. Remove jars, and fill to overflowing with 
sirup or boiling water and adjust rubbers and tops quickly. 

One or two stones may be left in each jar for flavor. 

,^ , , Canned Peaches n 

Method: 

Weigh fruit after peeling. Allow I its weight in sugar and 2 J or 
3 c. water to each pound of sugar. Make a sirup of sugar and water 
by boiling fifteen minutes and cook fruit in it — a small quantity at a 
time. Fill jars with fruit and sirup, letting the sirup overflow. 
Put on sterilized rubbers, adjust covers, and seal. 

,^ , _ ^ Canned Tomatoes 

Method I: 

Wipe tomatoes, cover with boiling water, and let stand imtil skins 
may be^easily removed, but not long enough to allow the fruit to 
become soft. Remove skins, cut fruit in pieces, and cook without 
adding water imtil thoroughly scalded, skimming often during the 
cooking. Fill sterilized jars with tomatoes and Hquid, adjust rubbers 
and covers, and seal at once. 

Method II: 

Sterilize jars. Wash tomatoes and plimge into boiling water to 
loosen skins. 

Place tomatoes in jars, adding i tsp. salt to i qt. of the fruit. Ad- 
just covers without rubbers, place on a rack with enough water to 



Digitized by 



Google 



38 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

come to neck of jars. Bring to boiling point and boil for 20-30 
minutes. Remove jars, fill to overflowing with hot stewed tomatoes or 
boiling water ,^ adjust rubbers and covers, and seal. Be careful to 
have no seeds imder the rubbers. 



Grape Juice I 

IngredtetUs: 

10 lbs. grapes (Concord) 2 qts. water 

2 lbs. sugar 
Method: 

Wash the grapes and cook them in water xmtil the skins are soft. 
Strain the pulp and liquid through a wet jelly bag. Reheat the 
juice and add the sugar and allow sirup to boil two minutes. Turn 
into hot sterile bottles, cork, and seal with parafiin or equal parts of 
shoemakers' wax and resin. 

,. Grape Juice n 

IngreatetUs : 

8 lbs. grapes (Niagara) i qt. water 

i lb. sugar 
Method: 

Wash the grapes and cook in one quart of water until the skins are 
soft. Strain the pulp and juice through a wet jelly bag. Add the 
sugar and boil the juice two minutes. Turn into hot sterile jars, 
cork, and seal. 

Raspberry Vinegar 
Ingredients: 

3 pts. raspberries i pt. cider vinegar 

I pt. juice to I lb. sugar 

Method: 

Prepare the berries, cover with the vinegar, and allow them to stand 

overnight. Strain fruit and liquid through a wet jelly bag and boil 

the sirup fifteen minutes. Add the sugar and boil five minutes. 

Turn into hot sterile bottles, cork, and seal. 

1 Addition of water is permissible only when canning for home use. Under the 
regulations for the enforcement of the National Food and Drugs Act commercial 
canned tomatoes must not contain added water. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 39 

JeUy 

See general directions. 

Jams, Preserves, Marmalade 
See general directions. 

Grapefruit Marmalade 

Ingredients: 

2 oranges 2 lemons 

2 grapefruit sugar 

water 
Method: 

Scrub the fruit with a brush thoroughly. Remove the peel and 
cook the grapefruit rind in several waters until the inside white is 
soft. Remove this with a spoon. Slice the rinds of all three fruits 
in very fine shreds. Slice the fruit pulp in thin slices, removing all 
seeds, as these give a bitter taste to the marmalade. Weigh the pulp 
and sliced rinds. Calculate the sugar according to general directions. 
Cook the pulp in a large quantity of water imtil the rinds have be- 
come almost clear. This may be done by continuous boiling or by 
boiling on consecutive days, but will probably take three hours. 
Measure the liquid and add more water to bring it up to the amount 
required for the sugar to be used (see general directions). Add the 
sugar and allow sirup and pulp to boil gently imtil mixture will 
jelly slightly. Turn into sterile jars, cool, seal with hot paraflSn, 
cover with tin covers. 

Note : The sugar must be added last as long boiling reduces the sweetness 
and changes the color to a caramel brown. Why ? 

Yellow Tomato Marmalade 

Ingredients: 

7 lbs. ripe yellow tomatoes 5 lbs. granulated sugar 

7 lemons 
Method: 

Weigh tomatoes after peeling. Slice yeUow skins of lemon in 
thin pieces. Discard white skin and cut pulp in small pieces. Boil 
until the sirup is thick and jellylike. 



Digitized by 



Google 



40 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Spiced Grapes 

Ingredients: 

6 lbs. grapes li c. vinegar 

3 lbs. sugar J c. mixed spice 

Method: 

Wash grapes and remove from stems. Put pulp into saucepan 
(save the skins). Cook pulp imtil seeds can be removed. Turn 
into colander and press pulp through, add skins and other ingredients* 
and cook until skins are soft and mixture thick and jellylike. 



cmnamon 

cloves 

allspice 



Gingered Pears I 

Ingredients: 

4 lbs. pears cut in thin slices 3 lbs. sugar 
2 lemons J lb. green ginger root 

I qt. water 
Method: ^ 

G)ok pears, lemons cut in fine slices, and chopped ginger root imtil 
the fruit is almost transparent. Add the sugar and boil gently imtil 
the sirup jellies and fruit is clear and transparent. 



Ingredients: 

8 lbs. pears (Seckd) 
4 lbs. sugar 



Gingered Pears n 



i lb. crystallized ginger 
3 lemons 



Method: 

Wash, core, and slice the pears in thick pieces. Add the sugar and 
crystallized ginger cut in small pieces. Allow the mixture to stand 
24 hours. Add lemon, sliced very thin, and cook mixture until sirup 
is thick and jellylike. Serve with ice cream. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 41 

Rhubarb Conserve I 

Ingredtents: 

5 lbs. rhubarb 4 lbs. sugar 

4 oranges 3 qts. water 

Method: 

Wash and cut the rhubarb into one-half inch pieces. Scrub the 
oranges, slice through the rind into very thin sections, being careful 
to remove all seeds. Cook the rhubarb and sliced Qfange together 
for 15 minutes, adding a very little water if necessary to prevent the 
fruit from burning. 

Add the 3 qts. water and 4 lbs. sugar and allow the mixture to 
boil gently until sirup is thick and jellylike. 



Rhubarb Conserve n 

Ingreatents: 

4 lbs. rhubarb i lemon 

I lb. raisins 2 oranges 

4 lbs. sugar 
Method: 

Wash and cut rhubarb into one-half inch pieces. Boil rhubarb, 
raisins, and sugar gently 20 minutes, add juice of oranges and lemon 
and the rind of the orange. Boil until sirup is thick and jellylike. 



Apricot Conserve 

Ingredients: 

I lb. dried apricots 3 pineapples 

li qts. water i c. Sultana raisins 

sugar I c. water 

Method: 

Wash the apricots and soak them in cold water overnight. Using 
this same water, cook them xmtil soft. Press pulp through a colander. 
Shred the pineapple and cook in a small quantity of water until 
soft. Combine the cooked fruits and raisins. Weigh and add half 
as much sugar. Add i c. water and cook xmtil sirup is thick and 
jellylike. 



Digitized by 



Google 



42 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Pineapple and Cherry Preserves 

Ingredients: 

I lb. pineapple ij lb. sugar 

J lb. white cherries i c. water 

Method: 

Cut the pineapple in thin slices. Wash and stone the cherries and 
add the pineapple. Add the sugar and cook until mixture is thick 
and sirup is jellylike. 

Grape Conserve 

Ingredients: 

9 lbs. grapes i lb. walnuts 

I lb. raisins 4 lbs. sugar 

Method: 

Boil skins until tender. Heat pulp until seeds can be easily re- 
moved. Add raisins to skins and pulp and boil until consistency of 
marmalade. Add nuts five minutes before removing from fire. 

Plum Conserve 

Ingredients : 

3 lbs. pitted plums i lb. walnuts 

1 lb. raisins 3 oranges 

3 lbs. sugar 
Method: 

Wash and cut pliuns in pieces. Add chopped raisins, and oranges, 
and boil until the consistency of marmalade. Add nuts five minutes 
before removing from fire. 

Cherry Conserve 

Ingredients : 

2 qts. currants i qt. sour cherries 
2 qts. red raspberries } lb. walnut meats 

2 qts. sugar 
Method: 

Stem the currants, pit cherries, and boil all ingredients except nuts 
imtil consistency of marmalade. Add nuts five minutes before re- 
moving from fire. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 43 

Mustard Pickle 

Ingredients: 

I qt. cucumbers sliced i c. salt 

I qt. small cucumbers 2 qts. vinegar 

1 qt. small onions 3 c. brown sugar 

2 heads cauliflower i c. flour 

I green pepper 2 tbsp. mustard 

2 tbsp. turmeric 
Method: 

Cover the vegetables with salted water and let stand overnight. 
In the morning, cook in the same water until tender, then drain. 
Make a paste by cooking together the other ingredients, then 
add the drained vegetables. When sufficiently thick, put in wide- 
mouthed sterilized jars or bottles. 



Chili Sauce 

Ingredients: 

12 ripe tomatoes 2 c. vinegar 

I pepper, finely chopped 3 tbsp. sugar 

I onion i tbsp. salt 

2 tsp. each, cloves, cinnamon, allspice. 
Method: 

Cook J hour or until mixture is reduced J. 



Sweet Pickle 

Ingredients: 

7 lbs. fruit I qt. vin^ar 

si lbs. sugar 2 oz. cloves 

2 oz. cinnamon 
Method: 

Make a sirup and cook fruit in it imtil soft. Remove the fruit 
with a perforated spoon. Boil down the sirup and pour over the 
fruit in stone or glass jars. 

Note : Crabapples, peaches, pears, or Seckel pears may be used. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



44 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Pickled Tomatoes 
Ingredients: 

I pk. green tomatoes 2^ qts. vinegar 

1 c. salt 2 lbs. brown sugar 

2 qts. vinegar J lb. white mustard seed 

1 qt. water 

2 tbsp. each of cloves, cinnamon, ginger, black pepper. 

Method: 

Cut the tomatoes in one-fourth inch slices, and let stand over- 
night with one cup of salt. In the morning, drain and add two 
quarts of vinegar and one quart of water. Boil fifteen minutes, then 
drain. 

Take two and one half quarts of vinegar, brown sugar, mustard 
seed, and spices. Boil tomatoes in this fifteen minutes. Then turn 
all into a stone jar. 

Cucumber Pickle 

Ingredients: 

100 medium cucumbers J c. black mustard seed 

I qt. onions i c. white mustard seed 

I c. olive oil 
Method: 

Wash, peel, and slice the vegetables. Cover with brine (i c. salt 
and 4 qts. boiling water), let stand 2 hours and drain. 

Mix oil and mustard seed and cover with hot vinegar. Add to 
the vegetables. Seal in sterilized cans. 

Red Pepper Pickle 
Ingredients: 

J pk. red peppers i qt. vinegar 

boiling water 2 c. sugar 

Method: 

Wash peppers, remove seeds, and shred. Cover with boiling 
water for 5 minutes. Drain, pack in sterilized jars, and cover with a 
sirup made of the vinegar and sugar. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 45 

Score Card 

Canned Fruits 

General appearance 15 

Container (5) 
Color (10) 

FruU 50 

Whole (s) 

Cooked (20) 
Flavor (25) 

Sirup 35 

Clearness (10) 
Flavor (15) 

Density (10) 

100 

Preserves 

General appearance 30 

Container (10) 
Color (20) 

Mixture 70 

Consistency (15) 
Flavor (40) 

Density (15) 

icx> 

References 
Canning and Preserving 

Adams and Sandster. Practical Directions for Preserving Native 

Fruits and Vegetables. University of Wisconsin, Agricultural 

Experiment Station, Bulletin No. 136 (1906). 
Bitting. The Canning of Foods. United States Department of 

Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin No. 151 (191 2). 
Breazeale. Canning of Vegetables in the Home. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, 359 (1910). 
Buchanan. Household Bacteriology. 



Digitized by 



Google 



46 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

CORBETT. Canned Foods, Fruits, and Vegetables. Teachers Col- 
lege Bulletin, Fourth Series No. 12, February 15, 1913. 

GoLDTHWAiTE. Principles of Jelly Making. University of Illi- 
nois, Bulletin No. 34 (191 2). 

GoLDTHWAiTE. Chemistry and Physics of Jelly-making. Journal 
of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, vol. i, pages 333- 
340; vol. 2, pages 457-462 (1909-1910). 

Gould and Retcher. Canning Peaches on the Farm. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, No. 426 
(1910). 

Hatton and Holt. Canning of Fruits and Vegetables. Georgia 
State College of Agriculture, Bulletin No. 11. 

Hausmann. Home Manufacture and Use of Unfermented Grape 
Juice. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' 
Bulletin, No. 175 (1903). 

KiNNE and Cooley. Foods and Household Management. 

Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

Nye and Austin. A Canning Business for the Farm Home. Cor- 
nell University Bulletin, vol. 2, No. 47. 

Parloa. Canned Fruit, Preserves, and Jellies. United States 
Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, 203 (1905). 

Rose. The Preservation of Food in the Home. Cornell University 
Bulletin, vol. i No. 17. 

Sherman. Food Products. 

Wiley. Foods and their Adulteration. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER IV 
CEREALS 

Cereals and the various products made from grains form 
one of the most important foods for man. For the majority 
of people they furnish more nutriment than does any other 
class of food materials. Cereals have been defined as grasses,^ 
the grains of which are used for food. There are on the market 
many cereal preparations, cooked or uncooked, but these are 
made from a limited number of cereal grains and the properties 
of each preparation are dependent upon those of the cereal from 
which it is derived. 

A cereal grain is a kernel ^ containing a relatively small germ 
rich in protein and fat, and a relatively large endosperm con- 
taining much starch, little fat, and a moderate amount of pro- 
tein, the whole inclosed in a fibrous covering called the bran. 
The bran consists of several layers, the outermost being of little 
food value, while the " aleurone layer " (which lies between the 
fibrous covering and the starchy interior but is apt to be re- 
jected with the bran in ordinary milling processes) is rich in 
protein and in phosphorus, calcium, and iron compounds of 
much value in nutrition. A " whole grain " product is there- 
fore a more complete food than the " finer " product made 
from the endosperm only, but the latter (largely because it is 
poor in protein, fat, and ash constituents) is apt to keep longer 
than the former. 

^ Since a few of the edible grains, such as buckwheat, are seeds of plants not be- 
longing to the grass family, the term "grains" is somewhat broader than "cereals." 

2 See Sherman's Food Products, pages 270-272, for description and illustra- 
tions of the structure of the wheat kernel. 

47 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



48 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

The percentage composition of the different grains and of the 
various products manufactured from them may be found in 
Bulletin 28, Office of Experiment Stations, U. S. Department of 
Agriculture, or in Sherman's Food Products^ Chapter VIII. 

How to purchase cereals: Cereals do not keep well after being 
opened, as parasites are apt to appear. Therefore, purchase a small 
stock at a time. Cereals in bulk are cheaper, but not always as clean 
as those sold in packages. Grocers should be encoiuraged to keep 
bulk cereals in bins or other containers which are dust-proof and 
insect-proof. 

Reasons for cooking cereals : 

1. Softens the cellulose. 

2. Bursts the starch grains. 

3. Increases the palatability. 

Methods of cooking : 
Boiling in water or milk ; example, rice. 
Steaming in water or milk ; example, com meal. 
Heat in the oven; example, com flakes. 
Toast; example, shredded wheat. 

Methods of serving : 

Hot. Cold. 

Puddings. Thickening for croquettes. 

Fritters. Browned Slices. 
Variations in serving : 

Cream and sugar. Cream. 

Butter and sugar. Butter. 

Pnme sauce. Apple sauce or sirup. 

Maple sugar. Com simp. 

Fresh fruit. Dried fruit. 

Creamed beef. Pudding sauce. 

Differences in consistency: 
Breakfast cereal. Mush. 
Porridge. Gmel. 
Cereal water. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS 49 

EXPERIMENTS 

49. — Make the following tests with iodine. See page 13. 

J tsp. dry cornstarch 

i tsp. moist cornstarch 

i tsp. cooked cornstarch 
Observe change in color of iodine. 

60. — Make the same test with iodine, using the following cereals, 
cooked, moist, raw ; 

rice cream of wheat 

com meal wheat flour 

shredded wheat force 

51. — Wash a little rice and test the water with iodine. See page 
13. Result? Why do you observe a change? 

62. — Collect a little saliva in test tubes. Add to this small 
amounts of. the cooked and imcooked cereal, let stand in warm water 
ten minutes. Test part with iodine and part with Fehling-Benedict 
solution (page 13). Conclusion? 

63. — We have shown that starch is present in large quantities ; 
we will now compare the thickening qualities of the following cereals : 

com meal rolled oats 

cream of wheat rice 

Use i c. each of the above cereals. Mix each in saucepans 
of imiform size and shape with : 

a. I c. cold water. Bring to boiling point and boil i $ minutes. 

b. I c. boiling water. Boil 15 minutes. 

c. In each case how much water must be added to prevent 
burning and to reduce to the consistency of breakfast cereal? 

d. What individual variations in the thoroughness of cook- 
ing appear at the end of the 15 minutes? 

e. Is it best to start cereals cooking in boiling or cold water? 
/. Make a table of the amoimt of water required with each 

of the cereals used. Reduce it in each case by } and again cook i c. 
of the cereals, this time using a double boiler. 

£ 



Digitized by 



Google 



50 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

g. Why was the amount of water reduced ? 

h. Compare the products when saucepan and double boiler 
are used. 

i. What advantages has the double boiler? 

64. — When should salt be added to the cereal? 

a. Measure two portions of rice, A and B, i c. in each 
portion. 

b. Steam A in double boiler, adding salt to the rice as 
usual. 

c. Steam B in double boiler, salting rice as in A, but also 
adding rock salt to the water in lower part, in the proportion of 2 
tbsp. to I c. water. Note the temperature of the water in lower 
part of double boiler in each case. 

d. Compare the length of time required for the cooking of 
the rice in each case. How do you explain the difference? 

66. — a. Steam the following cereals, using milk as compared with 
water for the liquid : 



milk 


water 


cream of wheat 


cream of wheat 


oatmeal 


oatmeal 


corn meal 


corn meal 


rice 


rice 



b. Compare as to taste, color. What possible objection could 
be raised to the long cooking of milk when used as a liquid with 
cereals? Is it a vital objection? 

66. — a. Use | c. rolled oats plus the requisite amount of water for 
breakfast cereal as decided upon in Expt. 53 /. 

Cook J the amount of oatmeal and water in the fireless 
cooker. 

Cook the other half in the pressure cooker. 

b. Note the length of time required in each case to cook 
the cereal. 

Explain the differences in length of time. 

c. What is the consistency of the cereal? Why? 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS 



SI 



67. — Reduce the amount of water by i and cook the cereal in both 
pressure and fireless cooker. Note the consistency of this mixture. 

68. — Repeat imtil the proper amoimt of water per unit of cereal 
is determined for each cooker. 

69. — Determine the proper amount of water to be used per imit of : 

com meal rice 

cream of wheat malt 

60. — Compute the economy in time, fuel, and labor when the pres- 
sure and fireless cookers are used. 

61. — Compute the length of time in which each cooker would pay 
for itself in the cost of fuel sa.ved. 

Compare the results obtained in the above experiments with the 
corresponding data in the following tabular summary and discuss any 
points which may not seem to agree. 

The Cooking of Cereals (Tabular Summary) 



Cereal 


Amount 

OP 

Water 


Salt 


Time 


I c. rolled oats 


3C. 
4C. 
4-6 c. 
6 c. 
8 c. 

2 C. 


I tsp. 
I tsp. 
I tsp. 
I tsp. 
I tsp. 
I tsp. 


30-60 minutes 
3 hours or more 
30-60 minutes 
60 minutes 
20-30 minutes 
I hour or more 


I c. coarse oatmeal 

I c. granular cereals (except com meal) 

I c. com meal 

I c. rice — boiled 

I c. rice — steamed 



General rules. Remove any foreign substances from cereal. A 
fireless cooker is efficient, but a double boiler is the best utensil for 
cooking cereals. Fill lower part J full of boiling water. It must be 
kept rapidly boiling while cereal is cooking. If more water is needed 
before the cooking is completed, boiling water should be used. 

Add cereal slowly to rapidly boiling salted water in upper part of 
double boiler and stir constantly until it thickens, cooking directly 
over the fire. Place over boiling water to finish cooking. Rice 
shovdd be washed before cooking. 



Digitized by 



Google 



52 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Combinations of Cereals and Fruits 

Apples in Sirup with Rice I 
Ingredients: 

I c. boiling water stick cinnamon 

I c. sugar apples 

Method: 

Boil sugar, cinnamon, and water together three minutes. 

Wash apples, core, pare, and quarter and boil in the sirup tmtil 
tender. Remove apples from sirup as soon as transparent and con- 
tinue boiling until a medium-thick sirup is formed. Arrange apples 
attractively aroimd a mound or mold of cereal and pour sirup over 
aU. 

Apples in Sirup with Rice n 

Method: 

Steam rice in individual molds. Turn out and surroimd with 
stewed apples cut in eighths. Uncooked fruits, as oranges, bananas, 
or strawberries, may be used. 



Apples in Sirup with Oatmeal 

Method: 

Stew pared, cored apples and fill cavities with cooked oatmeal 
mixed with chopped dates. Pour sirup over apples and serve with 
whipped cream. This may be served for breakfast or as a simple 
dessert for luncheon. 



Oatmeal with Dates 
Ingredtents: 

i c. oatmeal i lb. dates 

i tsp. salt i§ c. water 

Method I: 

Prepare oatmeal as usual. When half cooked, add dates, washed, 
stoned, and cut in halves ; or when oatmeal is cooked, add dates finely 
chopped. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS 53 

Method II: 

Wash, stone, and cut dates in quarters lengthwise. Using a custard 
cup prepare a mold by first dipping in cold water. Press pieces of 
dates against sides of cup, radiating from center like petals. Care- 
fully turn in cereal and cool. Serve with cream. 

Note: Cream of wheat, wheatena, and farina may be used with dates. 
Raisins, figs, or prunes may be substituted for dates. 



Farinaceous Desserts 
Apple Tapioca 



Fresh or canned 
peaches or 
other fruits 
^ may be used. 



Ingredients: 
f c. pearl or minute tapioca 
cold water 

2j c. boiling water 7 sour apples 

\ tsp. salt 

§ c. sugar 
Method: 

Soak tapioca one hour in cold water to cover, drain, add boiling 
water and salt ; cook in double boiler imtil transparent. Core and 
pare apples, arrange in buttered pudding dish, fill cavities with sugar, 
pour over tapioca and bake in moderate oven until apples are soft. 
Serve with sugar and cream. Do not soak minute tapioca. 

Cornstarch Pudding 
Ingredients: 

I pt. milk scalded \ tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. cornstarch J c. cold milk 

4 tbsp. sugar J tsp. vanilla 

Method: 

Plain 

Make paste of cornstarch, salt, sugar, and cold milk. Add to 
scalded milk slowly, stirring constantly. Stir until smooth, then 
cover and cook 45 minutes in double boiler. Add vanilla and pour 



Digitized by 



Google 



54 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

into molds previously wet with cold water. Serve cold with cream 
and sugar. 

Chocolate 

Melt chocolate. Add scalded milk gradually. Finish as in plain 
pudding. If eggs are used, beat and add the cornstarch mixture 
slowly to them. Return to double boiler and cook 3 minutes, stirring 
constantly. 

Additions 

whites 2 eggs, or yolks 2 eggs, or 

2 squares chocolate 

Use I tbsp. cornstarch to i c. milk for soft pudding. 
Use 2 tbsp. cornstarch to i c. milk to mold. 



Baked Indian Pudding 

Ingredients : 

I qt. milk f c. com meal 

J tbsp. ginger i c. molasses 

I egg I tbsp. butter 

J tsp. salt 
Method: 

Scald the milk and add the molasses and butter. Mix the com 
meal, ginger, and salt and pour the liquid over dry ingredients. Beat 
in the egg and pour the mixture into a buttered baking dish. Bake 
two hours in a moderate oven. 



Coflfee Sago Pudding 
Ingredients : 

2 c. boiled coffee J c. sugar 

J c. sago I tsp. salt 

Method: 

Wash sago in cold water; add coffee and cook in double boiler 
tmtil sago is transparent. Add sugar and salt. Serve with cream 
and sugar or soft custard. Coffee Sago may be served hot or 
cold. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS 55 

Orange Pudding 
Ingredtents: 

2 tbsp. cornstarch 2 c. boiling water 

I c. sugar I tbsp. butter 

i tsp. salt juice of i lemon 

3 oranges 
Method: 
Prepare cornstarch pudding and pour over sliced oranges. 



Rice Pudding 

Ingredtents: 

I qt. milk i tsp. salt 

i c. rice J c. sugar 

I tsp. vanilla J c. raisins 

Method: 

Wash rice, place in a buttered pan, add other ingredients except 
raisins. Bake slowly several hours, stirring occasionally. Add 
raisins when done. 



Shredded Wheat Pudding 

Ingredients: 

2 c. hot milk J c. molasses 

I shredded wheat biscuit \ tsp. salt 

I egg J tsp. cinnamon 

Method: 

Combine ingredients and bake in a moderate oven until firm. 
Serve with cream. 

Gruels 

Gruels are liquid preparations of finely groimd grain products. 
Long cooking in a double boiler is necessary to make the starch 
soluble or to partly dextrinize it. 



Digitized by 



Google 



56 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Arrowroot Gruel 

Ingredients: 

2 tsp. arrowroot i c. boiling water or milk 

2 tbsp. cold water salt 

Method: (for all, same as given for cereals on page 51). 



Barley Gruel 

Ingredtents: 

1 tbsp. barley flour i c. scalded milk 

2 tbsp. cold water salt 



Com Meal Gruel 

Ingredtents: 

1 tbsp. com meal li c. boiling water 

2 tbsp. cold water salt 



Oatmeal Gmel 

Ingredtents: 

i c. coarse oatmeal ij c. boiling water 

} tsp. salt milk to thin it to right consistency 

References 
Grain Products 

BiRDSEYE. Rice and Rice Cookery. Comell University Bulletin, 

vol. 3, January i, 19 14. 
Cereal Foods. Maine Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 

118 (1905). 
Cereals and How to Cook Them. The University of Nebraska, 

Home Studies Series No. 2. 
Cereals and Other Starchy Foods, Demonstration. Iowa State 

College of Agriculture. Extension department. Short course 

class notes no. 5. 
Day, Edna. Digestibility of Starch of Different Sorts as Affected 

by Cooking. United States Department of Agriculture, Farm- 
ers' Bulletin, 202 (1908). 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS 57 

FouLK, Elma. Ohio State University. The Agricultural College, 

Home Makers Reading Course No. 2. 
HxjNT. The Cereals in America. 
Langworthy and Hunt. Com Meal as a Food and Ways of Using 

it. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, 

565 (1914). 
Langworthy and Hunt. Use of Com, Kafir and Cow Peas in the 

Home. United States Department of Agriailture, Farmers' 

Bulletin, 559 (1913). 
Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 
Merrill. Indian Com as Food for Man. Maine Agricultural 

Experiment Station, Bulletin 131 (1906). 
Pattee. Practical Dietetics with Reference to Diet in Disease. 
Sherman. Food Products. 
Wiley. Cereals and Cereal Products. Part 9 of Bulletin 13 of 

the Bureau of Chemistry, United States Department of Agri- 
culture. 
Woods and Snyder. Cereal Breakfast Foods. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, 249 (1911). 
Woods. Food Value of Corn and Com Products. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, 298 (1907). 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER V 

VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 

Vegetables cover a class of foods some of which are fruits, 
some roots, leaves, stalks, seeds, bulbs, and tubers. A classi- 
fication of vegetables is given below. Like the fruits, the vege- 
tables vary greatly in their general composition. Some, like 
the legumes, are characterized by high protein content ; others, 
including the roots and tubers, by high carbohydrate content ; 
still others, including most of the leaves, stalks, and bulbs, by 
high cellulose and water content. All vegetables, however, are 
rich in one or more of the ash constituents such as iron, calcium, 
and phosphorus, which are now known to play an important 
part in nutrition. (See Sherman's Food Products , pages 324- 
329, for percentage composition, and pages 347-349 for 
percentage of ash in the edible portion.) 

Classification : 

a. According to the part of the plant used for food. 
h. Character of juice — sweet, strong. 

c. Character of plant — starchy, watery. 

d. Fresh, dried, canned. 

a. Part of the plant: 

Leaves — lettuce, water cress, spinach, cabbage, dandelion, kale, 
Swiss chard, beet tops, turnip tops. 

Stalks — asparagus, celery, rhubarb. 

Bidhs — onion, — Bermuda, Spanish, Egyptian; garlic, leek, 
shallot, chives. 

Seaweeds — Irish moss, agar or Ceylon moss. 
58 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 59 

Tubers — potatoes, Jerusalem artichokes, dasheen corms. 

Tuberous roots — sweet potatoes, yams, cassava, arrowroot. 

Succulent roots — turnips, beets, kohl-rabi, radishes, carrots, 
parsnips, o)^ter plant. 

Flowers — cauliflower, French artichoke. 

Fruits — tomatoes, cucumber, squash, pumpkins, okra, com, 
peppers, eggplant. 

Seeds — peas, beans, lentils. 

b. Character of juice : 

sweet strong 

celery onions 

carrots cabbage 

beets turnips 

c. Character of plant: 

starchy watery 

potatoes cabbage 

parsnips tomatoes 

cucumbers 

Points to emphasize. Select medium-sized vegetables and wash 
carefully. Soak cauliflower in salt water before cooking. Soak 
wilted vegetables in cold water. Cook summer vegetables as soon 
after gathering as possible. If necessary to keep, place in refrigera- 
tor or in a cool cellar. Keep winter vegetables in barrels or bins in 
a dry, cold place. Empty canned vegetables as soon as opened, and 
let stand exposed to the air a few minutes to become aerated. Vege- 
tables lack fat in any quantity, therefore it is well to combine them 
with butter, oil, or cream. It saves time to cook a double portion 
of a vegetable and reheat the next day in another form. 

Reasons for cooking vegetables: 

To sterilize any from doubtful sources. 

To soften cellulose. 

To make starch more easily digestible. 

To develop or modify flavors. 

To give a variety of attractive ways of serving. 



Digitized by 



Google 



6o LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Ways of serving vegetables: 

Boiled with butter Mashed 

Creamed Puddings (Irish moss) 

Croquettes Salads 

Scalloped with cheese ' Souffles 

Fritters Soups 

General rules for cooking. Wash thoroughly, pare or scrape if 
skins must be removed. Let stand in cold water irntU cooked to 
keep crisp and prevent discoloration. Pare onions imder cold water 
to absorb the odor. Cut tops of beets i inch from beet. Use one 
tsp. salt to I qt. boning water. Add salt when vegetables are half 
cooked. The water in which vegetables are cooked is called vege- 
table stock and may be used with milk in the preparation of white 
sauce for vegetables with sweet juice. Cook strong-juiced vegetables 
uncovered in a large amoimt of water, sweet- juiced covered in a 
small amoimt of water. The color may be kept in green vegetables 
by pouring cold water through them after draining. Drain vege- 
tables as soon as tender. Cold vegetables may be used in salads, 
combined with white sauce as " creamed vegetables," or white sauce 
and buttered cnunbs as " scalloped vegetables." 

EXPERIMENTS 
Potato 

62. — Prepare two very thin slices of white potato, one lengthwise 
and one across. 

Hold against a strong light. 

Observe markings and lines. What are they? 

Make a drawing. 

See Sherman's Food Products, pages 320-321, 322. 

63. — Do the same with carrot, turnip, and onion. 
Compare and state conclusions. 

64. — Wash, pare, and grate into a bowl a good-sized white potato. 
Make a microscopic examination of a particle of the pulp in a drop 

of water, before and after treatment with a drop of dilute iodine 
solution. See page 13. 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 6l 

66. — Pour pulp and fluid from Expt. 64 into a wet cheesecloth 
over a bowl of cold water. 
Draw the cloth together and knead the mass in the water. 
To what is the milky color of the water due? 
Test a little of the water with iodine. 
Boil a little. 
What changes do you observe? Explain. 

66. — Change the water and continue washing the pulp from Expts. 
64 and 66 imtil the water is only slightly milky or clear. Save each 
water. 

Open cheesecloth and examine content. 
What does this explain as to the structure of the potato? 
What does this explain as to the cooking of potato and other starchy 
vegetables? 

67. — Observe the water and starch which has been standing. 
Decant off the water and turn sediment on to a filter paper to dry. 
Note the clear white color of the sediment. Note the brown color 

of liquid. To what is this due? (See experiments with Apple.) 

68. — Add fresh cold water to a portion of the sediment obtained in 
Expt. 67; stir imtil particles are all suspended. Dip in a piece of 
white muslin and iron while still wet. When have you observed this 
same result ? 

69. — Add freshly boiling water to the sediment in one bowl. Stir 
the mixture constantly. 

How does this compare with Expt. 68? 

Dip a piece of muslin in, allow it to dry, sprinkle, and iron. 

70. — Repeat Expts. 68 and 69, using carrot and turnip. 
Compare and state conclusions. 

Dextrinized Starch 

Tl. — a. Dextrinize one tbsp. flour by heating the flour in a dry 
utensil. 

6. Test with iodine. (See page 13.) 

c. Add water to make a solution. 

d. Does the color turn? 



Digitized by 



Google 



62 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

e. Why not? 

/. Does the dextrin appear to be more or less soluble than 
flour or starch in cold water ? 

g. Explain your answer. 

72. — a. Thicken § c. cold water with i tbsp. flour. 

b. Thicken § c. cold water with i tbsp. dextrinized flour 
(boil each). 

c. Which mixture is thickest ? Why? 

Starchy Vegetables 

Vegetables may be prepared for cooking processes by peeling or 
scraping. Peeling is more often done carelessly than carefully. 
Have ready the following vegetables : 

white potato sweet potato 

carrot turnip 

parsnip 

73. — Wash, scrub with a brush, and weigh each vegetable. 
Estimate the waste in the preparation of each vegetable by the 

following methods: 

a. scraping 

b. peeling carefully 

c. peeling in the usual manner 
Which method is the more economical? 

Cooking of Vegetables 

74. — Have washed and scrubbed the following vegetables : 

a, white potato 

b, sweet potato 

c, carrot 

Prepare each by: 

a, peeling 

b, scraping 

c, scrubbing, but not removing skin 

a. Boil each vegetable, prepared in the three ways. 

b. Note the length of time of cooking. 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 63 

c. Compare as to color, texture, and flavor. 

d. Note the length of time and ease in removing the skin of the 
cooked vegetable as compared with peeling an uncooked vegetable. 

e. Test the water in each case for starch, protein, sugar, and 
mineral matter. By which method of preparation is most food value 
lost ? Why ? What are your conclusions ? 

76. — Use the same kinds of vegetables prepared for cooking by 
peeling, scraping, and scrubbing. 

Bake in a hot oven. Note the time of baking, appearance, texture, 
color, taste in each case. 

Which method of preparation for baking vegetables is best ? Why ? 

Green Vegetables 

Green vegetables are prepared for cooking or fresh for the table 
by washing in several waters to remove sand, parasites, etc. 

76. — Wash the following vegetables : 

lettuce celery spinach 

green peas string beans onions 

cauliflower 

Arrange samples of each green vegetable as follows : 

a. Soak in cold water i hour in room. 

b. Soak in ice water i hour in refrigerator. 

c. Soak in salted cold water (2 tsp. salt to i pt. water) i hour 
in room. 

d. Soak in salted ice water (2 tsp. salt to i pt. ice water) 
I hour in refrigerator. 

o 1 . -J . / I tsp. lemon juice 1 ^ ^ . 

e. Soak m acid water < ^ '^ . > to i pt. ice water 

1 1 tsp. vmegar J 

in refrigerator i hour. 
Note the crispness in each case. 
Is there any change in color or flavor? 

77. — Boil samples of each vegetable in the following manner : 

a. Large quantity of water. No cover. 

b. Small amount of water. Cover tightly. 

c. Small amount of water. No cover. 



Digitized by 



Google 



64 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Compare the length of time of cooking in each case. 
Contrast color, flavor, attractiveness. 
Which method is best for each vegetable? 
Why? 

78. — Prepare spinach by cooking in double boiler, using no water 
in upper part. Enough moisture will be furnished by the water 
which clings to the spinach in washing and also the water in the plant. 

Compare with that boiled in water. 

79. — What nutrients are lost by cooking green vegetables in 
water? 

Prove this by testing the water. The cooperation of the chemistry 
laboratory should be sought, and distilled water should be used in 
boiling the vegetables. 

Cookers 

80. — a. Prepare several kinds of roots and tubers {e.g. potatoes, 
carrots, sweet potatoes, beets, turnips, parsnips) in both the fireless 
and the pressure cooker. Note the temperatiure used for each cooker. 

h. Note the length of time required in each case to cook 
each vegetable and the amoimt of water necessary. 

c. Contrast the amount of water used and explain the 
difference. 

d. Compute the difference in labor, time, and fuel. 

81. — Repeat Expt. 80, using leafy vegetables {e.g. spinach, cabbage) 
and report results in the same way. 

82. — Experiment similarly with onions, cauliflower, and other 
vegetables. 

Summarize the evidence as to relative merits of the two methods 
for each kind of vegetable. Are there any vegetables for which 
either cooker would not be suitable? 

Buttered Beets 

IngredtetUs : 

6 beets (cooked) 2 tbsp. sugar 

2 tbsp. butter i tbsp. vinegar 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 65 

Method : 

Prepare the cooked beets in \ in. slices and place in baking dish. 
Melt the butter, add the sugar and vinegar and allow mixture to 
come to the boiling point. Pour the sirup over the beets and place 
baking dish in moderately hot oven for ten minutes. 

Glazed Carrots with Peas 
Ingredients: 

J c. butter 2 c. peas 

J tbsp. sugar 6 carrots 

Method: 

Prepare carrots, cut in strips and boil 15 minutes. Drain, return 
to saucepan, add .butter and sugar, cover and cook slowly until 
tender. Add the cooked peas (canned may be used) and season. 

Com Pudding 

Ingredients: 

2 c. com I tbsp. sugar 

2 egg yolks i tbsp. butter 

I tbsp. flour I c. milk 

J tsp. salt i tsp. pepper 

2 egg whites 
Method: 

Melt the butter, add the sugar, flour, and milk. Let heat imtil 
mixture reaches boiling point. Add the slightly beaten egg yolks, 
then com, salt and pepper. Fold in the stifiiy beaten egg whites, 
pour into a buttered baking dish, and bake in a moderate oven 30-40 
minutes. Serve at once. 

Buttered Cabbage 

Ingredients: 

I cabbage 2 tbsp. melted butter 

salt water 

Method: 

Separate the cabbage leaves, wash and place in boiling salted 
water. Boil imtil leaves are tender. Drain the water from the 
leaves, place them in serving dish and add melted butter. Serve hot. 



Digitized by 



Google 



66 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Cabbage with Ham 
Ingredients: 

1 cabbage i lb. cooked ham 

water 
Method: 

Separate and wash the cabbage leaves. Place in boiling water, 
adding the cooked ham. Allow all to boil until cabbage is tender. 
Drain water from the leaves, arrange cabbage on serving dish, and 
garnish with ham. 

Note : Bacon may be substituted for ham. 



Creamed Cabbage 

Ingredients : 

1 cabbage i c. vinegar 

2 egg yolks i c. water 
i tbsp. butter i c. cream 

Method: 

Separate the cabbage leaves, wash and cut them in thin pieces 
and cook in boiling salted water. Prepare a custard of the yolks of 
eggs, water, vinegar, and butter. Cook the mixture in a double 
boiler and as it thickens add the cream. When custard is thick, pour 
it over the cabbage in a serving dish. Serve hot. 



Stuffed Baked Potatoes 

Ingredients : 

6 baked potatoes 3 tbsp. hot milk 

2 tbsp. butter J tsp. salt 

i tsp. white pepper 
Method: 

Cut the potatoes in halves, lengthwise ; then without breaking the 
skin remove the inside. Mash with a fork, season, and return to 
shells, keeping it light and fluffy. Place on a pan in a hot oven until 
light brown. 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 67 

Potato Apples 

Ingredients: 

2 c. hot riced potatoes cayenne 

2 tbsp. butter grating of nutmeg 

J c. grated cheese yolks 2 eggs or i whole egg 

Method: 

Mix ingredients in order given, and beat thoroughly. Shape in 
form of small apples, roll in flour, egg and crumbs, fry in deep fat. 
Insert a clove at stem and blossom end. 



Potato Puff 

Ingredients: 

2 c. mashed potatoes 2 tbsp. melted butter 

2 eggs I c. cream 

I tsp. salt 
Method: 

Beat the potatoes, eggs, and cream imtil the mixture is smooth and 
light. Add the melted butter and salt. Pour mixture into a buttered 
baking dish and bake in a hot oven imtil it is well risen and brown. 

Potato Souffle 

Ingredients : 

4 large white potatoes § c. milk 

I tbsp. butter J tsp. pepper 

4 egg whites 4 egg yolks 

I tsp. salt 
Method: 

Boil and rice the potatoes. Add the milk, butter, salt, pepper, and 
yolks of eggs. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs and pour the 
mixture into a buttered baking dish. Bake in a moderate oven imtil 
the surface is browned. 

Sweet Potato Puff 

Ingredients : 

6 sweet potatoes 2 tbsp. butter 

whites 2 eggs § tsp. salt 



Digitized by 



Google 



68 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Boil and mash the sweet potatos. Add the butter, salt, and stiffly 
beaten whites of eggs. Pour the mixture into buttered custard 
cups placed in boiling water. Bake in a hot oven twenty minutes. 
Serve in the cups with a parsley garnish. 

Glazed Sweet Potato I 

Ingredients: 

6 medimn-sized potatoes ^ c. sugar 

i c. water i tbsp. butter 

Method: 

Wash and pare sweet potatoes., Cook ten minutes in boiling 
salted water. Drain, cut in halves lengthwise, and put in a buttered 
pan. Make a sirup of sugar, water; add butter. Brush potatoes 
with sirup and bake 15 minutes, basting twice with remaining sirup. 

Glazed Sweet Potato n 

Ingredients: 

6 medimn-sized boiled sweet potatoes 

i c. butter i c. sugar 

hot water salt 

Method: 

Melt butter in a frying pan, add sugar and a little salt gradually 
to allow sugar to melt and form a brown sirup. Add enough hot 
water to reduce to a thin sirup. Cut potatoes in lengthwise slices, 
place in pan and heat over fire, basting constantly imtil they show a 
rich golden glaze. Serve at once. 



Ingredients: 


Browned 


Parsnips 




cold, boiled 
butter 


parsnips 




pepper 
salt 



Method: 

Cut parsnips in lengthwise slices. Place in butter until weU 
browned. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 69 

Stuffed Peppers 

Ingredtents : 

6 green peppers 3 tbsp. crumbs 

1 onion 8 tbsp. chopped ham 

2 tbsp. butter salt 

i c. brown sauce pepper 

Method: 

Cut a slice from stem end or cut peppers lengthwise. Remove all 
seeds and parboil 10 minutes. Do not leave in water. Cut onion 
in small pieces and brown in butter. Add sauce and bread crumbs* 
Sprinkle with pepper and salt. Fill peppers with mixture. Cover 
with buttered crumbs and bake 10 minutes in a hot oven. 



Winter Squash 
Steamed: 

Cut squash in pieces, remove seeds and stringy portion, and pare. 
Steam imtil soft. Mash and season with butter, salt, and pepper. 

Baked: 

Cut in 2-inch pieces, remove seeds and stringy portion, place in a 
pan, cover and bake imtil soft in a slow oven. Mash and serve in the 
shell or remove from the shell, mash, and season. 



Squash Souffl6 

Ingredtents : 

2 c. hot steamed squash 1} c. milk 

I tbsp. brown sugar 2 eggs 

I tsp. salt J tsp. pepper 

Method : 

Wash squash, add remaining ingredients, eggs beaten separately, 
and whites folded in last. Place in pan of hot water and bake in 
moderate oven xmtil firm. 



. Digitized by 



Google 



70 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Baked Summer Squash 

Ingredtents : 

3 c. mashed, cooked squash i egg 

2 J c. bread crumbs i tsp. onion juice 

J c. milk i tsp. pepper 

6 slices bacon i tsp. salt 

Method: 

Broil the bacon, and add 2 tbsp. of the fat to the squash. Com- 
bine ingredients and place in a buttered baking dish. Bake in a 
moderate oven until brown. Garnish with the bacon. 



Vegetables en Casserole I 

Ingredtenis: 

6 potatoes i c. rice 

I turnip I tsp. salt 

I c. peas i tsp. pepper 

I c. tomatoes J tsp. allspice 

I onion 4 c. brown stock 

Method: 

Prepare vegetables and wash rice. Put ingredients in layers in a 
casserole, add stock, cover and bake slowly 3 hours. 



Vegetables en Casserole n 

Ingredtents : 

2 cooked turnips 2 tbsp. butter 

4 cooked carrots i tsp. salt 

4 c. cooked spinach i tsp. pepper 

Method: 

Line a buttered mold with strips of carrots and turnips. Fill with 
spinach seasoned with butter, salt, and pepper, set in a pan of hot 
water and bake 20 minutes. . Remove from mold and surroimd with 
white sauce. 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 71 

Eggplant en Casserole 

Ingredients : 

. 2 c. mashed, boiled eggplant i tsp. salt 

J c. stewed tomatoes | tsp. pepper 

3 tbsp. butter i tbsp. grated onion 

3 tbsp. chopped, cooked meat J c. buttered cnmibs 

Method : 

Combine vegetables, meat, and seasonings, place in a casserole 
and cover with crumbs. Brown in a hot oven. 



Boston Baked Beans 

Ingredients: 

I qt. pea beans i tbsp. salt 

I lb. fat salt pork J c. molasses, New Orleans 

I tsp. soda i tbsp. mustard 

cayenne boiling water 

I small onion 
Method : 

Pick over and wash beans, cover with cold water and soak over- 
night. Drain, cover with fresh water and parboil, with soda. Drain 
again. Pour boiling water over pork, scrape rind and score. Cut 
off one thin slice and place with the onion in the bottom of the pot. 
Put beans in pot, then press pork in beans, leaving only the rind 
above. Mix the seasonings, molasses, and i c. boiling water and pour 
into the bean pot and bake in slow oven 8 to 10 hours. Add water as 
needed. Uncover bean pot during the last hour of baking to brown 
the rind. Serve with Boston Brown Bread. 



Dried Lima Beans 

Ingredients: 

I c. beans i tbsp. butter 

J tsp. salt i tsp. white pepper 

Method: 

Wash the beans and soak overnight in plenty of cold water. Drain, 
boil in salted water 5 minutes. Add J tsp. baking soda to each 



Digitized by 



Google 



72 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

quart water. Put them into the fireless cooker for 4 hours or more. 
Drain, season with the butter, salt, and pepper, and reheat if necessary. 



Ingredients: 

I c. lentils 
i lb. bacon 



Stewed Lentils 



i small onion 

water 
i c. vinegar 
Method: 

Wash lentils and soak overnight. Drain, cover with fresh cold 
water and cook with bacon and onion several hours, until tender. 
Drain, reserving i c. liquid ; thicken this with 2 tbsp. browned flour 
mixed with 2 tbsp. cold water. Boil 5 minutes, add the vinegar, 
and reheat the lentils in this sauce. Season with pepper, and salt if 
necessary. 

White Sauce 



Proportions 


Flour 


Butter 


Salt 


Mn.K 


L Thin — cream soups .... 

II. Medium — creamed vegetables . 
ni. Thick — creamed oysters . . . 
IV. Very thick — croquettes . . . 


1 tbsp. 

2 tbsp. 

3 tbsp. 

4 tbsp. 


1 tbsp. 

2 tbsp. 

3 tbsp. 
1-2 tbsp. 


Itsp. 
Jtsp. 
itsp. 
itsp. 


I C. 
I C. 
I c. 
I c. 



Method: 

French 

Melt butter, add floiu:. Add milk, stirring constantly to prevent 
lumping or burning. Cook until mixture has thoroughly boiled. 
Add salt and pepper. If made in quantities of more than 2 c, a 
double boiler should be iised in order to prevent burning or scorching. 

Hygienic 

Make a paste of flour and milk. Cook in a double boiler for 30 
mimites. Just before serving add butter, salt, and pepper. " Hy- 
gienic " white sauce is supposed to be more easily digested than that 
made by the French method as the starch is more thoroughly cooked 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 73 

and butter not cooked. The French method is more commonly 
used, however. 

Uses of White Sauce 

Cream soups Custard for fillings and ice creams 

Creamed vegetables and oysters Gravies 

Croquettes Souffles 

Variations 
Addition of eggs, cheese, fruit juices. 

Creamed Vegetables 
2 c. vegetable i c. white sauce II 

Scalloped Vegetables 

2 c. vegetables i c. white sauce 11 

I c. buttered crumbs 
(See rules for scalloped dishes below) 

Note : i c. grated cheese may be substituted for buttered crumbs. 

Scalloped Dishes 
General Rules 

1. The crumbs used for scalloped dishes are prepared from the 
inside of stale bread. Cnmib the bread by grating, or by rubbing 
two pieces together. 

2. Place the food material in two layers, using one quarter the 
amount of crumbs on the bottom of the dish, one quarter in the middle, 
and the remaining half on the top of the dish. 

3. Butter the baking dishes and shells. 

4. A moderate oven is best used in the baking. 

Crumbs for Scalloped Dishes 
Ingredients: 

I c. crumbs white pepper or cayenne 

\ tsp. salt I tbsp. butter 



Digitized by 



Google 



74 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Melt the butter in a baking dish, remove from fire and stir in 
seasoned crmnbs lightly, using a fork- 
Scalloped Tomatoes 
Ingredients: 

I can or i qt. tomatoes i tsp. salt 

3 c. crumbs i tsp. pepper 

3 tbsp. butter 
Method: 

Prepare according to rule and bake one half hour covered; then 
xmcover to brown crumbs. 

Scalloped Apples 

Ingredtents : 

3 c. crumbs i tsp. nutmeg 

3 tbsp. butter J tsp. cinnamon 

3 c. sliced apples J lemon, juice and rind 
J c. sugar i c. water 

Method: 

Mix sugar and spice. Prepare according to the rule and bake one 
hour, covered ; then uncover to brown crumbs. The water must be 
added before the top layer of crumbs. If the apples are tart, the 
lemon juice may be omitted. More water may be needed if the apples 
are not juicy. 

Cream Soups 

Cream of Asparagus Soup 
Ingredients: 

I bimcji asparagus cubed 4 tbsp. flour 

I qt. boiling water i J tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. butter pepper 

I pt. milk 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 75 

Cream of Celery Soup 

Ingredients : 

li c. celery cubed 4 tbsp. flour 

I pt. boiling water | tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. butter i pt. milk 
pepper 

Cream of Chicken Soup 
Ingredients: 

I qt. chicken stock 4 tbsp. flour 

I pt. milk J tsp. celery salt 

4 tbsp. chicken fat salt and pepper 



Cream of String Bern Soup 

Ingredients: 

I can beans + tbsp. flour 

I pt. boiling water i§ tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. butter pepper 

I pt. meat stock i pt. milk 

Cream of Tomato Soup 
Ingredients: 

I qt. tomatoes f c. flour 

i tsp. soda 3 tsp. salt 

i c. butter § tsp. white pepper 
I qt. milk 
Method: 

Stew the tomatoes slowly 15 minutes. Strain and add soda while 
hot. Combine with white sauce. 



Purees 

Com Soup I 

Ingredients: 

I can com ' 4 tbsp. butter 

I pt. water 4 tbsp. flour 

I qt. milk i§ tsp. salt 

I slice onion pepper 



Digitized by 



Google 



76 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients: 



I can cornlet 
I pt. water 
I qt. milk 
i c. butter 



Corn Soup n 

1 tbsp. chopped onion 
i c. flour 

2 tsp. salt 

i tsp. white pepper 
yolks 2 eggs 



Method: 

Cook the cornlet with the water 20 minutes. Cook the onion in the 
melted butter imtil brown, add flour, seasoning, and the milk gradually 
as for white sauce. Strain, add strained cornlet, combine mixtures, 
pour over the well-beaten yolks, and serve at once. 



Ingredients: 



Pea Soup 



I can peas 
I qt. boiling water 
5 tbsp. butter 
5 tbsp. flour 



i tsp. salt 
i tsp. sugar 
pepper 
I pt. milk 



Ingredients: 



Potato Soup 



3 potatoes 
I pt. milk or 

1 pt. milk and water 

2 tsp. chopped onion 
I tbsp. butter 



I tbsp. flour 

1 tsp. salt 

i tsp. white pepper 
celery salt 

2 tsp. chopped parsley 



Method: 

Boil potatoes until soft, drain ; scald milk and onion in a double 
boiler. Beat potatoes with a wire potato masher, add hot Uquid, 
strain, and return to the double boiler. Make a white sauce, using 
this as liquid. Cook 5 minutes, and add the chopped parsley just 
before serving. 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 



77 



Ingredients: 

1 qt. black beans 
4 qts. cold water 

2 tbsp. chopped onion 
2 tsp. salt 

i tsp. pepper 
cayenne 



Black Bean Soup 



1 piece celery root 
J tsp. mustard 

4 tbsp. butter 

2 tbsp. flour 

1 large lemon 

2 hard-cooked eggs 



Method: 

Wash the beans and soak them overnight in 2 qts. of cold water, 
drain and rinse thoroughly ; brown the onion in 2 tbsp. of the butter, 
put in with the beans, add the celery root, and 2 qts. cold water. 
Cook slowly until beans are soft, adding more water as it boils away ; 
rub through a strainer; add the seasonings and heat. Heat the 
remaining butter in a saucepan, add the flour, then the hot soup 
gradually. Cut the lemon and eggs in thin slices and serve with the 
soup. 

FOOD VALUES 
Baked Beans 



Material 



1^ 



no 






If 



Beans . . 
Salt pork . 
Onion . . 
Molasses . 

Total, 

cooked 
loo-Calorie 

Portion 



I c. 

ilb. 
I slice 
I tbsp. 



188.5 
71.5 
17 
7.0 



42.41 

1.34 
.02 

.17 



3.40 
61.65 
.003 



112. 16 

.15 
4.83 



650 
560 

7 
20 



.0415 

.0347 
.0018 
.0009 



409 
.001 
.008 
.02 



2.11 
.028 
.016 
.02 



013 
,0002 
,0001 
.0014 



sic. 



856 
69.16 



43.94 
2.74 



65.05 
5.26 



II7.I4 
9.46 



1237 
ICO 



.0789 

.006 



.438 
.035 



2.174 
.173 



.0147 

.0012 



Digitized by 



Google 



78 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 
Creamed Potato 



Material 



Potato . 
Butter . 
Flour . . 
Milk . . 
Salt . . 
Total, 

cooked 
ICG-Calorie 

Portion 



2 c. 
2 tbsp. 
2 tbsp. 

I c. 



3ic. 
ic 



II 



291.6 
36.2 
14.1S 

245-9 



575.3 
77.66 



6.41 

.36 

1.58 

8.1 1 



16.47 
2.22 



.29 

30.77 
.014 

9.83 



40.7 
5.49 



54.65 

10.59 
12.29 



77.53 
2.71 



242 

278 

50 

170 



740 
100 



.018 
.02 
.0015 
.0225 



.062 
.008 






.045 
.008 
.003 
.4 



456 
.063 



£6 



.4 

.011 
.025 
.51 



.946 
.132 



.003 

.0002 
.0005 



0037 
.0005 



Cream of Pea Soup 



Peas . . 


I can 


440 


15.84 


.88 


43.12 


242 


.15 


.096 


.605 


.0036 


Milk . . 


2 c. 


462.4 


15.25 


18.49 


23.12 


319 


.045 


.733 


.966 


.001 


Butter . 


2 tbsp. 


39 


.39 


33-15 




300 


•034 


.009 


.012 




Flour . . 


2 tbsp. 


14 


1.57 


.14 


10.48 


50 


.0015 


.0034 


.024 


.0019 


Water . 


2 c. 




















Seasoning 






















Total, 






















cooked 


4C. 


1034 


31.05 


52.56 


71.82 


911 


.2307 


.8414 


1.607 


.0065 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


!c. 


113 


3.10 


5.25 


7.18 


100 


.023 


.0841 


.06 


.0006 







Cream of Tomato Soui 


I 








Tomato . 


I c. 


240 


2.88 


.48 


9.6 


55 


.025 


.048 


.138 


.0093 


Butter . 


I tbsp. 


15.5 


.15 


13.17 




119 


.0123 


.0035 


.0047 




Flour . . 


I tbsp. 


7.5 


.79 


.07 


5.29 


25 


.0007 


.0017 


.0125 


.0001 


Milk . . 


I c. 


233.4 


7.14 


8.67 


11.83 


150 


.0225 


.358 


.454 


.0005 


Seasonings 






















Total, 






















cooked 


i}c. 


423.2 


10.96 


22.39 


26.72 


349 


.06 


.4112 


.6092 


.0099 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


ic 


121.63 


3.13 


6.4 


7.64 


100 


.017 


.1176 


.1742 


.0028 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 
Cream of Potato Soup 



79 



Material 



1^ 



^1 



^3 



s s 



Potatoes 
Butter 
Flour . 
Milk . 
Water 
Total, 

cooked 
loo-Calorie 

Portion 



3 

2 tbsp. 

2 tbsp. 

lie 



360 
26 

15 
289 



7.9 
.26 

1.58 
9.5 



.36 

22.1 

•IS 
11.56 



74.8 

II. 10 
14.45 



300 
200 

50 
200 



.012 
.02 
.001 
.026 



.057 
.006 

0035 

1.478 



.498 
.008 
.025 
.606 



.0045 

.0002 
.0006 



2ic. 

fc. 



89.7 



19.24 
2.5 



34.17 
4.44 



100.35 
13.04 



750 
100 



.059 
.007 



.5445 
.0707 



I.I37 
.147 



.0053 
.0006 



Cream of Lentil Soup 



Milk . . 


Jc. 


162.34 


5.34 


6.54 


8.10 


112 


.018 


.25 


.34 


.0003 


Butter . 


3 tbsp. 


58 


.58 


49.71 




450 


.03 


.0135 


.018 




Lentils . 


2 tbsp. 


28.7 


7.37 


.29 


16.93 


100 


.005 


•03 


.18 


.0024 


Cheese . 


I cu.m. 


22.8 


6.5 


8.17 


.004 


100 


.004 


.25 


.329 




Water . 


I c. 


225 


















Seasonings 






















Total, 






















cooked 


2ic. 


534.35 


19.79 


19.71 


25.03 


762 


.057 


.5435 


.867 


.0027 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


ic 


70 


2.59 


2.59 


3.29 


100 


•0075 


.0706 


.112 


.0003 









SpUt Pea 


Soup 












Peas . . 


ic 


56.2 


13.8 


.56 


34.8 


200 


.012 


.08 


.50 


.003 


Onion . . 


itbsp. 


6.5 


.10 


.019 


.64 


3 


.001 


.0036 


.0072 


.00003 


Butter . 


Jtbsp. 


11.5 


.11 


9.77 




88 


.01 


.0026 


.0035 




Flour . . 


Jtbsp. 


5.6 


.62 


.0564 


4.19 


20 


.001 


.0014 


.01 


.00008 


Milk . . 


ic 


112. 2 


3.7 


4.48 


5.6 


77 


.01 


.1771 


.233 


.00026 


Seasonings 






















Total, 






















cooked 


lie 


263.5 


18.33 


14.88 


45.23 


388 


.034 


.2647 


.7537 


.00337 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


ic. 


67.71 


4.71 


3.82 


11.62 


100 


.0075 


.0661 


.1884 


.0008 



Digitized by 



Google 



8o LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

References ' 

Vegetables 

Abel. Beans, Peas, and other Legumes as Food. United States 

Department of Agricvdture, FarmersV Bulletin 121 (1900). 
Bailey. Cyclopedia of Agriculture and Cyclopedia of Horticulture. 
Barrows. Course in the Use and Preparation of Vegetable Foods. 

United States Department of Agricvdture, Ofl&ce of Experiment 

Station, Bulletin 245 (191 2). 
Beattie. Celery. United States Department of Agriculture, 

Farmers' Bulletin 282 (1917). 
Breazeale. Canning Vegetables in the Home. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 359 (1909). 
Buchanan. Household Bacteriology. 
CoRBETT. A Successfvd Method oi Marketing Vegetable Products. 

Yearbook of Department of Agricvdture for 191 2. 
CoRBETT. Tomatoes. United States Department of Agricvdture, 

Farmers' Bulletin 220. 
De Rivaz, Evelyn. Little French Dinners. 
George. Vegetarian Cookery. 
Langworthy. Green Vegetables and Their Uses in the Diet. 

United States Department of Agriculture, Yearbook for 191 1. 
Langworthy. Potatoes and other Root Crops as Food. United 

States Department of Agricvdture, Farmers' Bulletin 295 (1907). 
Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 
Parloa. Preparation of Vegetables for the Table. United States 

Department of Agricvdture, Farmers' Bulletin 256 (1906). 
Iowa State College Agricvdtural Extension Department. Potatoes, 

Demonstration, Short Course Class Notes, Nos. 3 and 16. 
Sherman. Food Products. 
Sherman. Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. 
Thompson. Practical Dietetics. 
Wiley. Foods and their Advdterations. 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 8l 

Soups 

Deliee. Franco-American Cooking Book. 

Ellwanger. The Pleasures of the Table. An Account of Gastron- 
omy from Ancient Days to the Present Time. 

Farmer. The Boston Cooking School Cook Book. 

RoBBiNS. Creamed Soups and Vegetables. Oregon Agricultural 
College, Extension Service, No. 135. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER VI 
MILK, CR£AM, AND BUTTER 

Milk is probably the most important article of diet used to- 
day, because of the large place it fills not only in the diet of 
children and invalids but also in the economic and hygienic 
nutrition of healthy adults. 

In qualitative composition milk is an aqueous solution of 
milk sugar, mineral matter, and albumin with fat globules held 
in suspension and casein together with mineral matter in a state 
of semi-solution. Other facts regarding the constituents of 
milk will be developed in the course of the experimental work 
included in this chapter. 

The quantities of the chief constituents average approxi- 
mately as follows : water, 87 per cent ; milk sugar, 5 per cent ; 
fat, 4 per cent ; proteins; ^.^ per cent ; ash, 0.7 per cent. Mar- 
ket milk may of course be somewhat less rich in one or more of 
the foodstuffs than this average, but nearly every state now has 
legal requirements governing the milk industry and setting at 
least a minimiun standard for the product. In buying milk 
the sanitary quality should be carefully considered as well as 
the food value. See Leach's Food Inspection and Analysis, 
Chapter VII, Rosenau's The Milk Question, and Sherman's 
Food Products, Chapter III. 

Milk is the most important of all foods as a source of body- 
building material for growing children. While the great eco- 
nomic growth of the milk industry, the progress in the chemical 
and bacteriological study of milk, and the care given to the 
legal and sanitary control of the production and handling of 

82 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 83 

milk are all indications of a growing realization of the impor- 
tance of milk as a food, yet it is of interest to find that the great 
quantity of milk used as such in this country amounts on calcu- 
lation to only a little over a half a pint per day for every man, 
woman, and child, whereas the study of dietetics teaches us that 
adults should have at least as much milk as this and children 
a good deal more — "a quart of milk a day for every child " 
if possible. The study of milk cookery should therefore have 
as one of its main objects the development of a higher appre- 
ciation of milk as a food and the encouragement of its more 
liberal use in the diet, both as a beverage and in the greatest 
variety of cooked foods. 

EXPERIMENTS ON MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS ^ 

Cream 

83. — Examine a bottle of milk obtained from a reliable dealer. 

a. Read the statements on the cap. 

b. Of what significance are they? 

c. What are the two layers in the bottle? 

d. Why is the yellow layer at the top? 

84. — a. Examine with the microscope a tiny drop of cream. 

b. Make a drawing of the fat droplets. 

86. — a. Divide a quart of cream into four cups: A, B, C, D. 

b. Heat A in a double boiler imtil a thick scum appears. 
Allow the cream to cool and then beat it with a Dover egg beater. 
(Keep B, C, and D for subsequent experiments.) 

c. Can this cream be beaten stiff? 

d. What was the scimi which appeared when the cream was 
heated? 

86. — a. Whip B with a wire whisk until stiff. 

b. Beat c with a Dover egg beater imtil stiff. 

* A division in the recipes for milk and cheese has been made, but the experiments 
for milk and milk products have been considered together for purposes of compari- 
son and sunmiary. 



Digitized by 



Google 



84 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

c. Compare A, B, and C as to flavor, consistency, and 
volume. 

d. How do you explain differences noted? 

87. — Beat D with a Dover egg beater imtil fat globules form 
masses and butter resvdts. Drain off buttermilk and save for further 
experiments. 

Compute the per cent of butter obtained from a unit of cream. 

88. — Wash the butter in cold water imtil no more buttermilk 
appears. " Pat " out the water. 

a. Weigh the washed butter and divide it into two parts of 
equal weight. 

b. Add sufficient salt to one part to give it the usual salty 
flavor. 

c. Put both parts in the refrigerator for a few hours to ripen, 

d. Compare as to weight, flavor, and texture. 

Butter 

89. — Heat a teaspoon each of pure butter, renovated butter, and 
oleomargarine in separate tablespoons over a bunsen burner. 

Note the manner in which each melts and the appearance after 
melting. 

This is called the foam test for butter. Why should the butter 
boil quietly while the renovated butter and the oleomargarine sputter 
and crackle ? 

90. — Place a tablespoon of each of the three samples used in 
Expt. 89 in each of three small beakers containing four tablespoons 
of sweet milk. Heat the beakers imtil the fats are melted, then 
place them in cold water and while the fat is still melted stir each 
vigorously with a splint of wood. Note the form the pure and 
renovated butters take and contrast with the condition of the oleo- 
margarine. 

Buttermilk 

91. — Prepare butter from sweet cream. Prepare butter from an 
equal voliraie of sour cream. Compare resulting butter as to flavor, 
texture, and quantity. (Keep the buttermilk for Expts. 92 and 93.) 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 85 

92. — a. Compare each buttermilk as to flavor and color. 

b. Use each in gingerbread. Is any perceptible difference 
noticed ? 

93. — a. Reaction of milk. Test fresh milk with delicate litmus 
paper and record results for comparison with tests to be made later. 
b. Compare the behavior of the two buttermilks from Expt. 91 
toward litmus paper with that just observed in the case of sweet 
milk and with each other. Is there any relation between the differ- 
ence here seen and that observed in making gingerbread (Expt. 92) > 

V 

Constituents of Milk 

94. — a. The presence of water and fat in milk has been suffi- 
ciently demonstrated in the above experiments. 

b. If a platiniun or quartz dish is available, a little of the 
milk may be dried and biuned to determine whether it yields ash. 

96. — a. Test milk for protein by means of the biuret^ and xantho- 
proteic ^ reactions. 

b. Try heating some of the fresh milk to boiling. Does it 
contain a protein coagulable by heat like that of egg-white (page 109) ? 

96. — Acidulate another portion of the milk with acetic acid or 
vinegar, warm gently, and compare with the preceding test. Filter 
through wet filter 'paper and save the filtrate. Apply the xantho- 
proteic reaction^ to the solid which remains on the filter paper. 

97. — Test a portion of the filtrate from Expt. 96 for the presence 
of sugar by means of the Fehling-Benedict test (page 13). 

What conclusion can be drawn from the residt ? 
Do all sugars respond to this test ? 

98. — Apply the iodine test (page 13) both to a portion of the 
filtrate from Expt. 96 and to a separate portion of the whole milk. 

* Biuret Reaction. If a few drops of copper sulphate solution are added to pro- 
tein, in solution, and then an excess of caustic potash added, a red to violet colora- 
tion is produced. 

* Xanthoproteic Reaction. When nitric acid is added to protein (either in solu- 
tion or in solid form) a yellow color is produced which, on the addition of ammonia, 
becomes bright orange. 



Digitized by 



Google 



86 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

What conditions are justified as to the nature of the carbohydrate 
portion of milk? 

99. — Heat milk in double boiler. 

Strain the heated milk through a damp cheesecloth and test again 
for the xanthoproteic reaction. 

100. — Prepare 4 jimket custards, using i c. sweet milk and J 
jimket tablet dissolved in f tsp. cold water in each instance. Pro- 
ceed as follows : 

a. Add dissolved jimket to cold milk. 
h. Add dissolved junket to warm milk. 

c. Add dissolved junket to milk and boil i minute. 

d. Add dissolved junket to cold milk. Allow a, ft, and c 
to stand in room at room temperature. Put d in refrigerator. 

e. Compare results at end of 10 minutes. 

/. Which method has proven most satisfactory? 

g. Why? 

h. What is junket? 

101. — Prepare i qt. of junket according to the most successful 
method. After the mixture has stood for i hour, cut with a knife into 
small pieces. Note results. What is the yellowish liquid that appears ? 

102. — a. Strain mass prepared in Expt. 101 through wet cheese- 
cloth. 

h. Apply the following tests to residue and filtrate re- 
spectively : 

Biuret, page 85 

Coagulation on heating 

Xanthoproteic, page 85 

Fehling-Benedict solution, page 13 
c. What are your conclusions ? 

Milk (Sour) 

108. — Have ready milk which has been sour i day, 2 da)rs, 3 days, 
a. Test equal volumes of each with litmus paper. 
h. Neutralize each with a solution of baking soda, testing 
with litmus paper. 

c. Note the amount of soda required in each instance. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 87 

104. — a. Heat equal portions of each specimen of sour milk in a 
double boiler. 

h. Note the clotting which appears. 

c. Which clots quickest and in largest quantity? 

d. To what is this due ? 

106. — a. Add salt to each portion in double boiler in the propor- 
tion of J tsp. to I c. of sour milk. 
h. Note the effect. 
c. How do you explain the result ? 

106. — Strain the clotted masses from Expt. 106 through wet cheese- 
cloth and allow to hang imdisturbed until filtrate no longer drips. 
Test as usual with : 

Biuret, page 85 
Xanthoproteic, page 85 
Coagulation on heating 
Fehling-Benedict solution, page 13 

107. — a. Compare the cheese obtained in Expt. 106 with that 
made from sweet milk. 

h. Note the difference in consistency^ texture, and flavor. 
c. To what is this due? 

108. — Test each specimen of sour milk with litmus paper. 

a. Which turns the paper quickest ? 
h. What acid is present in sour milk? 

c. How does it originate? 

(Leach, Food Inspection and Analysis) 

d. With the litmus paper still in the milk, add sufficient 
baking soda to neutralize the acid. Is a physical or chemical change 
produced? 

e. What is the gas given off after the soda is added? 
/. In what food products is this principle apphed? 

g. Test I c. of sour milk with litmus paper and determine 
how much soda it is necessary to add to neutralize the acid. 

h. Take an average of the results of the class and com- 
pare with the amoimt usually given in cook books. How does it 
compare? 



Digitized by 



Google 



88 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

109. — a. Test i c. of sweet milk with litmus and add sufficient 
vinegar to produce the same intensity of color as in 108, g, 

b. Neutralize a part of this milk with soda. 

c. Compare the amoimt of soda needed with 108, g. 

d. Prepare gingerbread, using the milk in 108, g in one in- 
stance and that in 109, a in the second instance. 

e. Compare the two products. Is one preferable to the 
other? 

/. Repeat g and heat the milk imtil the curd separates 
out. Compare this curd with that of normally sour milk and also 
with the curd made with jimket and sweet milk. 

g. What are the noticeable differences and to what are 
they due? 

h. What sources of sour milk and curd have we? 

Cheese 

Cheese has ahready been prepared with sweet and sour milk. 
Test now commercial cheese. 

110. — Prepare three equal weights of American cheese. A, B, C. 
Heat A in a saucepan, B in a double boiler, and C in hot milk. Com- 
pare results. 

111. — Prepare two equal weights of American cheese. A, B. 
Cut into small pieces and put into equal volumes of warm milk. 

a. Continue heating A in a double boiler imtil cheese is* 
melted. Examine consistency of mixture. 

b. Continue heating B in saucepan and allow milk to boil. 
Compare result with that in a. How do you accoimt for the differ- 
ence in appearance, consistency, and difficulty in mastication? 

Absorption of Odors 

112. — Allow samples of butter, cream, sweet milk, and sour milk 
to stand in a compartment by themselves in the refrigerator. Arrange 
corresponding samples in a compartment already containing cooked 
onions or cooked cauHflower. 

Allow each to stand i day. Note taste and odor of each. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 



89 



113. — Put J tsp. of kerosene into a pitcher. Allow to stand i 
hour. Wash the pitcher thoroughly. Turn in i c. sweet milk. 
Allow this to stand i hour. Note taste and odor. 

Milk Desserts 
Junkets 



Ingredients 


Plain 




Chocolate 


Milk 


iqt. 


I qt. and i c. 


I qt. (i oz. chocolate 






boiled coffee 


or 2 tbsp. cocoa — 
boil 5 min. with J r. 
of the qt.) 


Sugar 


3 tbsp. 


Jc. 


ic 


Vanilla 


I tsp. 




I tsp. 


Tablet 


I 


I 


I 


Cold water 


I tbsp. 


I tbsp. 


I tbsp. 



General Method: 

Dissolve tablet in cold water. 

Heat milk to lukewarm temperature in a double boiler. 

Add sugar and stir imtil dissolved. 

Add dissolved tablet and pour into serving glasses. 

Let stand at room temperature imtil firm. 

Place in refrigerator until ready to serve. 

Garnish with whipped cream or fruit. 

Milk and Egg Desserts 

Custards 
General Rules: 

Scald the milk in a double boiler. Beat eggs slightly, add sugar 
and salt and the scalded milk gradually. A moderate temperature 
is necessary in cooking custards to prevent curdling. Cool cup cus- 
tards before turning out. 

Soft Custards 

Cook custard in double boiler, stirring constantly until mixture 
coats the spoon. Strain. Cool and flavor. 



Digitized by 



Google 



90 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Baked Custards 

Strain uncooked custard into cups previously wet with cold water. 
Place in pan of hot water in moderate oven until firm. 

Test : A silver knife inserted in custard will come out dean when custard 
is firm enough. 

Steamed Custards 

Place cups in a steamer or in pan of boiling water. Place towel 
imder cover to absorb moisture. 

,. ^ Caramel 

Ingredtents: 

I c. sugar i c. boiling water 

Method: 

Melt sugar in iron pan over a low flame. Move gently with a knife 
and occasionally change position of pan to prevent burning the 
sugar. When the sugar has melted to a brown sirup, add the boiling 
water and simmer a little longer. Strain. 

Caramel Custard I 
Prepare caramel and add it to the scalded milk. 
Note : The caramel is in the custard. 

Caramel Custard II 

Prepare caramel and divide it equally among the custard cups. 
Place a spoon in the cup and pour the custard slowly down it. This 
keeps the two from mixing. 

Note : The caramel is a sauce for the custard, when turned out. 

Custard 

IngredtetUs: 

1 pt. milk 4 tbsp. sugar 

2 eggs or 4 yolks J tsp. salt 

i tsp. vanilla 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER, 91 

Chocolate Custard ^ 

i oz. chocolate to i pt. milk 

Melt chocolate in a double boiler and add the scalded milk to it a 
teaspoonful at a time imtil smooth. The remainder may be added 
rapidly. 

Note : Follow directions carefully so the chocolate wiU not separate. 

Variations 

Floating Island 

Soft custard served in glasses with meringue on top. Garnish 
with jellies or cherries. 

Tapioca or Rice Custard 
Ingredtents: 

i c. rice or pearl tapioca f c. sugar 

2 c. milk i tsp. salt 

2 eggs I tsp. vanilla 

Method: 

Cook soaked tapioca or rice in the scalded milk. Proceed as for 
plain custard. 

a. Cook in double boiler as a soft custard. 

b. Bake in buttered pudding dish as a baked custard. 

Bread Puddings 

Soak stale bread crumbs from inside of loaf in scalded milk 30 min- 
utes. Prepare custard with other ingredients. Bake in buttered 
pudding dish as a baked custard. 

Save whites of eggs for a meringue. 

Bread Pudding 

Ingredients : 

2 c. crumbs i tsp. salt 

I qt. milk 2 eggs 

i c. sugar grated nutmeg 

I c. raisins or currants 



Digitized by 



Google 



92 LABORAIORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Queen of Puddings 

Spread a baked bread pudding with jam or jelly before placing 
meringue on top. 



Ingredients : 



Chocolate Bread Pudding 



2 oz. chocolate i tsp. vanilla 

and ingredients for plain Bread Pudding 

FOOD VALUES 
Baked Custard 



Material 



Milk . 
Eggs . 
Sugar . 
Salt . 
Nutmeg 

Total, cooked 
icx>-Calorie 
Portion 



3 

^ 



4 tbsp, 
li tsp 
J tsp. 



4ic. 



^O 



443-2 
98.1 
51.2 



574.3 
120.6 



14.62 
13-14 



27.76 
5.82 



17.7 
10.3 



28.02 
S.8 



22.16 
51-2 



73.36 
IS.4 



306 

145 
20 



471 



o 
$ 



nl 



^f 



.045 

.06 

.007 



.112 
.023 



.70 
.087 



.787 
.165 



sal 
£3 



.92 
.348 



1.268 
.266 



.001 
,0027 



.0037 
.0007 



Rice Pudding with Eggs 



Cooked rice . 


ic 


96.8 


2.71 


.10 


23.62 


106 


.0048 


.003 


.06 


.0003 


Milk . . . 


ic 


III.7 


3.67 


4.46 


5-58 


77 


.011 


.177 


.234 


.000? 


Egg . . . 


i 


28.5 


3.82 


2.99 




42 


.016 


.025 


.1 


.0008 


Sugar . . . 


I tbsp. 


13.8 






13.8 


55 


.002 








Vanilla . . 


itsp. 


13. 










.0022 








Total, cooked 


I c. 


214.9 


10.2 


7-55 


43 


280 


.036 


.205 


.394 


.0013 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion . 


ic 


76.49 


3.06 


2.26 


12.9 


100 


.01 


.006 


.011 


.0003 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 93 

References 

MUk 

Atwater. Milk as Food. United States Department of Agricul- 
ture, Farmers' Bulletin 74 (1904). 

Buchanan. Household Bacteriology. 

Conn. Bacteria in Milk and its Products. 

Cunningham. The Production of Clean Milk. Ohio State Univer- 
sity, Agricultural College, Farmers' Reading Course (19 13). 

EcKLES. Dairy Cattle and Milk Production. 

Farrington and Woll. Testing Milk and its Products. 

Guthrie. Cream Separation. Cornell Reading Courses. Dairy- 
ing Series No. 5 (191 5). 

Harcourt. Food Value of Milk and its Products. Ontario Agri- 
cultural College. Toronto (1914). 

EIelly. Medical Milk Commissions and Certified Milk. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, 
No. I (1913). 

Lawson. Inexpensive Aids in Producing Sanitary Milk. The Mary- 
land Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 181 (1914). 

Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

MiLNER. The Use of Milk as Food. United States Department of 
Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 363 (191 1). 

Pearson. Facts about Milk. United States Agricultural Depart- 
ment, Farmers' Bulletin 42 (1906). 

Rogers. Bacteria in Milk. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Farmers' Bulletin 490 (191 2). 

Rogers. Direction for the Home Pasteurization of Milk. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, 
Circular 197 (191 2). 

RosENAU. Milk in its Relation to the Public Health. United States 
Public Health Service, Hygienic Laboratory, Bulletin 56. 

RosENAU. The Milk Question. 

Savage. Milk and the Public Health. 

Sherman. Food Products. 

Sherman; Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. 



Digitized by 



Google 



94 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Sherman. Methods of Organic Analysis. 

SwiTHiNBANK and Neumann. Bacteriology of Milk. 

Van Slyke. Modem Methods of Testing Milk and Milk Products. 

Wing. Milk and its Products. 

Whitaker, Rogers, and Hunt. The Care of Milk and its Use in 

the Home. United States Department of Agriculture; Farmers' 

Bulletin 413 (1913). 

BuUer 

Clevenger. Buttermaking. Ohio State University, Agricultural 

College, Farmers' Reading Course. 
Farrington and Meyers. A Comparison of Aniline and Anatto 

Butter Colors in Buttermaking. University of Wisconsin, 

Agricultural Experiment Station. 
Guthrie. Farm Butter Making. Cornell Reading Courses, vol. 3, 

No. 60, Dairying Series No. 4. 
Hastings. The Propagation of Pure Starters for Butter and Cheese 

Making. The University of Wisconsin, Agricultural Experi- 
mental Station. 
Patrick. Household Tests for the Detection of Oleomargarine and 

Renovated Butter. United States Department of Agriculture, 

Farmers' Bulletin 131. 
Rasmussen. a Study of Farm Buttermaking in New Hampshire. 

New Hampshire Agricultural Experiment Station, Durham, 

New Hampshire. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER VII 
CHEESE 

Cheese is made from milk or crearii by coagulating the casein 
with rennet or lactic acid. Ripening ferments, seasonings, and * 
coloring matter may be added. Cheese is divided into two 
main types: the hard cheeses such as Cheddar, Edam, Swiss, 
Parmesan, and Roquefort ; and the soft cheeses such as Brie, 
Camembert, Limburg, Neufch^tel, Gorgonzola, and Stilton. 
Much of the larger part of the cheese made in this country is of 
the type of the Cheddar cheese and is known as American 
Cheddar cheese. The process of making Cheddar cheese is 
divided into several distinct steps as follows : (i) inspection of 
milk, (2) ripening of milk, (3) addition of color, (4) coagulating 
the milk, (5) cutting the curd, (6) stirring and heating the curd, 
(7) removing whey, (8) cheddaring the curd, (9) milling the, 
curd, (10) salting and pressing, (11) ripening or curing the cheese. 
For full description of these steps see Sherman's Food Products, 
pages 89-94. 

^he different varieties of whole milk cheese do not differ 
greatly from an average composition of about one third water, 
one third fat, and one fourth protein (the small remainder being 
mainly salt). The fat is in a finely divided state and is chem- 
ically the same as butter fat. The protein is more or less 
digested casein (some albumin). The ripening process changes 
the proteins not only to soluble proteins, but to proteoses, 
peptones, amino acids, and ammonia. The ash is high in cal- 
cium, phosphorus, sulphur, and iron and sodium and chlorine 
from the salting. Cheese is a very concentrated food, so should 

95 



Digitized by 



Google 



96 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

be eaten in small quantities to avoid danger of irritation of the 
stomach. Cheese may be used interchangeably with meats 
and fish, and the time is coming when it will occupy a more 
prominent place in the dietary than it does at present. For- 
eign cheeses are expensive, but American cheese may be classed 
among the most economical of the high protein foods. 

Eggs with Cheese I 
Ingredients: 

3 hard-cooked eggs few grains cayenne 

I tbsp. flour J c. grated cheese 

I c. milk 4 slices toast 

i tsp. salt 

Method: 

Make a thin white sauce with the flour and milk and seasonings. 

Add the cheese and stir until melted. Chop the whites and add them 

to the sauce. Pour the sauce over the toast, force the yolks through 

a potato ricer or strainer, sprinkle over the toast. 

Eggs with Cheese II 

Ingredients : 

4 eggs i tsp. salt 

I c. or 4 oz. grated cheese few grains cayenne 
I c. stale bread crumbs 
Method: 

Break the eggs into a buttered baking dish or into ramekins ^nd 
cook them in a hot oven until they begin to turn white around the 
edge. Cover with the mixture of cnunbs, cheese, and seasonings. 
Brown in a very hot oven. 

Eggs with Cheese m 
Ingredients: 

i lb. cheese grated or i tbsp. chopped parsley 

cut into small pieces few grains nutmeg 

8 eggs i tsp. salt 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CHEESE 97 

Method: 

Beat the eggs slightly, mix them with the other ingredients, cook 
over a very slow fire, stirring constantly, so that the cheese may be 
melted by the time the eggs are cooked. 

Cheese Fondue I 

Ingredients: 

ij c. soft bread cnmibs * 4 eggs 
i§ c. grated cheese i c. hot water 

J tsp. salt 
Method : 

Mix the water, bread crumbs, salt, and cheese; add the yolks 
thoroughly beaten ; into this mixture cut and fold the whites of eggs 
beaten until stiff. Pour the mixture into a buttered baking dish 
and bake 30 minutes in a moderate oven. Serve at once. 

Cheese Fondue II 

Ingredients: 

ij c. hot milk i tbsp. butter 

I J c. stale bread crmnbs 4 eggs 

I J c. grated cheese 5 tsp. salt 

Method: 

Heat the milk in a double boiler, -add the cnunbs and allow the 
mixture to stand 15 minutes in hot water. Beat the yolks of eggs 
and mix thoroughly with the milk and cnmibs. Add the butter, 
cheese, and salt. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites, pour into a but- 
tered baking dish and bake 30 minutes in a moderate oven. Serve 
at once. 

Cheese Fondue m 

Ingredients : 

I J c. bread cnunbs i egg 

I J c. warm milk 2 tbsp. butter 

15 c. cheese 8 crackers (warmed) 

seasoning 
Method: 

Allow the bread to soak in the warm milk 10 minutes. Add the 
butter and cheese to this mixture and when the cheese is melted, add 



Digitized by 



Google 



98 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

the eggs slightly beaten. Add the seasoning and allow the whole 
mixture to cook in a double boiler until thick. Serve at once on 
warmed crackers. 

Cheese Omelet I 

Cheese may be made into omelets in several ways. An omelet may 
be served with thin cheese sauce made in the following proportions : 

I J tbsp. flour 
J c. grated cheese 
I c. milk 

This sauce may also be added to omelets in which boiled rice, minced 
meat, or some other nutritious material has been included. 

Cheese Omelet U 
Grated cheese may be sprinkled over an omelet before it is served. 

Cheese Omelet m 

Ingredtents: 

yolks of 2 eggs salt and pepper 

2 tbsp. hot water whites of 4 eggs 

I c. grated cheese i tbsp. butter 

Method: 
Beat the yolks imtil lemon-colored and add the hot water and the 

seasoning. Beat the whites until they are stiff, and add the cheese. 

Cut and fold the two mixtures together. Proceed as for Foamy 

Omelet. 

Welsh Rarebit I 

Ingredtents: 

J lb. cheese, grated cayenne 

J c. cream or milk i egg 

i tsp. mustard 2 tsp. butter 

i tsp. salt dry toast 

Method: 

Put the cheese and milk or cream into a double boiler. Mix the 
mustard, salt, and cayenne. Add the egg and beat well. When the 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHEESE 



99 



cheese is melted, stir in the mixture of dry ingredients and egg, then 
the butter, and cook imtil it thickens. Stir constantly. Pour it 
over hot toast. 



Welsh Rarebit II 



i tsp. mustard 
few grains cayenne 

1 c. milk 

2 eggs 



Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. butter 

I lb. soft* milk cheese, cut 
in small pieces 

i tsp. salt 
Method: 

Put butter in chafing dish and when melted add the cheese and 
seasonings ; as cheese melts, add milk gradually, stirring constantly ; 
then eggs beaten slightly. When eggs are cooked and mixture has 
thickened, serve on crackers or bread toasted on one side, rarebit 
being poured over untoasted side. A rarebit should be smooth and 
of creamy consistency, never stringy. 



Ingredients: 

2 tbsp. butter 
2 tbsp. flour 
\ tsp. soda 
2 eggs 



Red Bunny 



f c. milk 

f c. stewed and 

strained tomatoes 
I lb. cheese 



seasonmgs 



Method: 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and milk. When 
thoroughly cooked add the cheese cut in fine pieces, the eggs slightly 
beaten, and the seasonings. Let this mixture cook imtil the cheese 
is melted and the eggs cooked. Have ready toasted whole wheat or 
graham bread and when ready to serve add the soda to the hot tomato, 
stir this into the cheese mixture and serve at once. 



Ingredients: 

I qt. milk 

1 junket tablet 

2 tbsp. sugar 
yolks of 2 eggs 



Cheese Cakes 



few grains nutmeg 
3 tbsp. butter 
2 tbsp. currants or 
small raisins 



Digitized by 



Google 



lOO LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Warm the milk and add the dissolved jimket tablet. Let the 
milk stand imtil the curd forms, then break up the curd and strain 
off the whey. Add the other ingredients to the curd; line patty 
tins with pastry, fill them with the mixture, and bake. 

Cheese Souffle with Pastry 

Ingredients: 

2 eggs \ c. Swiss cheese cut 
f c. thin cream in small pieces 
salt, cayenne, and i c. grated cheese 

nutmeg 
Method: 

Add the eggs to the cream and beat slightly, then add the cheese 
and seasoning. Bake 15 minutes in a hot oven, in patty tins lined 
with puff paste. 

Cheese Custard 

Ingredients : 

I c. grated cheese yolks of 2 eggs 

\ c. cream or rich milk salt and paprika 

Method: 

Mix the cream and the cheese and heat imtil the cheese is melted. 
Remove from the fire and add the yolks of the eggs and seasonings. 
Bake in buttered ramekins. Serve with jelly or preserves. 

Scalloped Apples with Cheese 
Substitute riced cream cheese for butter in Scalloped Apples. 

Milk and Cheese Soup 

Ingredients: 

3 c. milk I c. grated cheese 
I J tbsp. flour salt and paprika 

Thicken the milk with the flour, cooking thoroughly. When ready 
to serve, add the cheese and the seasoning. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHEESE lOI 

Vegetable and Cheese Soup 

Ingredients: 

2 c. stock 2 tbsp. butter 

2 tbsp. finely chopped carrots 2 tbsp. flour 

I tbsp. chopped onion ij tsp. salt 

I blade of mace i c. scalded milk 

} c. grated cheese 
Methods- 
Cook the vegetables a short time in one half of the butter, add the 
stock and the mace, boiling 15 to 20 minutes. Strain and add the 
milk. Thicken with flour cooked in the remaining butter. Just 
before serving, add the cheese and cook until it is melted. 

Cheese Loaf 

A cheese loaf is a mixture of grated cheese, bread crumbs, and 
chopped legimies or nuts. Vegetable stock is added to make of the 
right consistency to shape into a loaf. Bake in a moderate oven, 
basting frequently with butter and water. Spinach, lettuce, or beet 
tops may be substituted for legumes. 

Bean Loaf 

Ingredients : 

1 lb. cooked beans bread crumbs 

i lb. English dairy cheese salt and pepper 

Method (as above). 

Lima Bean Loaf 

Ingredients: 

2 c. cooked lima beans bread crumbs 
i lb. cream cheese 3 pimentoes 

Method (as above). 

Nut Xoaf 

Ingredients: 

I c. grated cheese i tbsp. butter 

I c. chopped English walnuts juice of § lemon 

I c. bread cnunbs salt and pepper 

2 tbsp. chopped onion 
Method (as above). 



Digitized by 



Google 



I02 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Spinach Loaf 

Ingredients : 

2 qts. spinach (cooked) salt 

I c. grated cheese bread cnimbs 

I tbsp. butter 
Method (as above). 

Cheese with Tomato and Com 

Ingredients : 

I tbsp. butter 2 c. grated cheese 

f c. com I pimento 

i c. tomato puree 2 egg yolks 

I tsp. salt § tsp. paprika 

Method: 

Heat the puree in a double boiler, add the butter, com, salt, pa- 
prika, and pimento. When the mixture is hot, add the grated cheese; 
and when the cheese is nearly melted, add the egg yolks slightly beaten. 
Allow the total mixture to cook imtil thick. Serve on toasted bread. 

Italian Rice 

Ingredients: 

1 c. rice I tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. butter ^ c. grated cheese 

2 c. tomatoes 4 tbsp. chopped green pepper 

Method: 

Wash rice and cook in boiling water imtil soft. Melt butter in 
saucepan, add green pepper and sauter 5 minutes ; add cooked rice, 
tomatoes, and salt. Let cook imtil tomatoes are soft. Add grated 
cheese and continue cooking imtil cheese is melted. Serve at once. 

Turkish Pilaf 

Ingredients: 

i c. rice I tbsp. butter 

2 c. boiling water , salt 

I c. tomatoes pepper 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHEESE 103 

Method: 

Wash rice and brown in the butter. Add water and steam until 
water is absorbed. Add the tomatoes and cook until rice is soft. 
Season. A little grated cheese may be added. 

Cheese Balls 

Ingredients : 

i| c. grated cheese cayenne 

I tbsp. flour whites 3 eggs 

i tsp. salt cracker dust 

Method: 
Mix cheese with flour and seasonings. Beat whites of eggs until 

stiff and add to the first mixture. Shape in small balls, roll in cracker 

dust, fry in deep fat, and drain on brown paper. Serve with salad 

course. 

Cheese Straws I 
Ingredients: 

I c. grated cheese i tsp. salt 

I c. fresh bread crumbs J tsp. pepper 

f c. flour cayenne 

I tbsp. butter i tbsp. milk 

Method: 

Cream the butter, add flour, crumbs, grated cheese, and seasonings ; 

mix thoroughly ; add milk. Roll i inch thick, cut J inch wide and 

6 inches long. Bake until brown in a moderate oven. Serve with 

salad course. 

Cheese Straws II 

Roll out plain or puff paste imtil orfe fourth of an inch thick. 
Spread one half of it with grated cheese. Fold over the other half 
and roll out again. Repeat the process three or four times. Cut 
into strips and bake. Serve with soup or salad course. 

Cheese Gingerbread I 

Ingredients : 

I c. molasses 2 c. flour 

4 oz. cheese 2 tsp. ginger 

I tsp. soda i tsp. salt 
2 c. water 



Digitized by 



Google 



I04 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Heat the molasses and the cheese in a double boiler until the cheese 
is melted. Add the soda and stir vigorously. Mix and sift dry 
ingredients and add them to the molasses and cheese alternately with 
the water. Bake 15 minutes in small buttered tins. 



Ingredients : 



Cheese Gingerbread U 



\ c. molasses 
i c. sugar 
4 oz. cheese 
flour 



2 c 



I tsp. soda 
^ tsp. ginger 
I tsp. salt 
i c. water 



Method : 

Rub the cheese and the sugar together. Add the molasses. Mix 
and sift the dry ingredients and add them to the cheese mixture alter- 
nately with the water. 

FOOD VALUES 
Macaroni and Cheese 



Material 



go 






u 
$ 



If 



Macaroni 
Cheese 
Milk . 
Butter 
Flour . 
Bread crumbs 

Total, cooked 
loo-Calorie 
Portion * . 



ic . 
ic. 
Jc. 
2 tbsp. 
2 tbsp. 



42 
24 
150 
39 
16.8 
22 



S.55 
6.5 
4.7 
.39 
1.58 
1.80 



.37 

8.6 
6 

23.15 
.16 
.26 



29.12 
.07 
7-5 

12.58 
11.59 



150 
100 
100 
300 
50 
50 



.0127 
.0125 

.015 
.002 
.0015 
.003 



.012 

.25 

.239 

.009 

.004 

.005 



.144 
.329 
.303 
.012 
.025 
.037 



.0006 
.0003 
.0003 

.0002 
.0002 



2C. 

ic. 



323 
71.99 



20.58 
2.73 



38.57 



5.12 



60.86 
8.09 



750 
100 



.0477 
.0063 



.519 
.069 



.850 
.113 



.0016 
.OOC2 



1 Also called Standard Portion (S. P.). 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHEESE 
Rice with Cheese and Tomatoes 



lOS 



Material 



Raw rice . 
Tomatoes 
Butter . 
Cheese 
Salt . . 

Total 

loo-Calorie 
Portion ^ 



ic 
I c. 

1 tbsp. 

2 0Z. 

I tsp. 



2ic. 
Jc. 






230 
56.7 



524.1 
68.1 



&^ 



7.9 
.2,77 
.14 
16.3 



27.11 
3.58 



.29 
.46 
11.9 
22.3 



34.95 
4.53 



78.6 
9.24 



87.84 
11.59 



350 

50 

108 

250 



758 



I 



.0218 
.0231 
.0109 
.0310 



.0868 
.0112 



.01 
.043 
.003 
.623 



.679 
.089 



11 

as 



.19 

.125 

.004 

.82 



I.I39 
15 



.001 
.0008 

.0007 



0025 
.0003 



References 
Cheese 

Buchanan. Household Bacteriology. 

Conn. Bacteria in Milk and its Products. 

DoANE. The Digestibility of Cheese. United States Department 

of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, Circular 166 

(1911). 
DoANE and Lawson. Varieties of Cheese: Descriptions and 

Analysis. United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau 

of Animal Industry, Bulletin 105. 
GiRONCi, M. Italian Recipes, translated and arranged by. 
Langworthy and Hunt. Cheese and its Economical Uses in the 

Diet. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' 

Bulletin 487 (191 2). 
Larson and White. Dairy Technology. 
Marshall. Microbiology. 
Sherman. Food Products. 

» Also called Standard Portion (S. P.). 



Digitized by 



Google 



Io6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Stoltz. Some Dairy By-products: Fermented Milk, Pimento 
Cheese. Ohio State University, Agricultural College, Farmers' 
Reading Course (1913). 

Van Slyke and Publow. The Science and Practice of Cheese 
Making. 

Wiley. Foods and their Adulterations. 

Wing. Milk and its Products. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER Vm 
EGGS, SOUFFLfeS, AND CROQUETTES 

Eggs have been used for food from the earliest times to the 
present day. While those of other fowl are also eaten, hens' 
eggs are so far the most common that they will be understood 
when the term eggs is used — though most of the statements 
made would apply to the eggs of other fowl also. 

The nutrients of eggs are interesting in their nature and will 
be studied experimentally as described below. For statements 
of the quantitative composition see Leach's Food Inspection 
and Analysis, Chapter IX, and Sherman's Food Products, 
Chapter V. From the place of eggs in nature and from the 
results of nutrition experiments we know that the constituents 
of eggs are adapted to serve as material for the construction of 
muscle, bone, and blood. 

The best egg is naturally one strictly fresh. Newly laid 
eggs may be preserved by cold storage or water glass (sodium 
or potassium silicate). Other methods practiced to some ex- 
tent and more or less successfully are packing the eggs in saw- 
dust, salt, or lime, or coating the shell with lard, paraflSn, or wax. 
Cold storage and the use of water glass are the best methods. 
Other methods are less effective and are apt to impart a dis- 
agreeable flavor. 

EXPERIMENTS 

114. — Determines a. about how many imbroken eggs there are in 
a pound. 

h, how many eggs minus the shell there are in a pound 



Digitized by 



Google 



Io8 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

c. how many tablespoonfuls in i whole egg : 

1. unbeaten. 

2. beaten. 

d, how many tablespoonfuls in the beaten yolk and white, 
respectively. 

115. — Examine with a hand lens a portion of egg shell. Note 
its porous condition. Examine an egg shell which has been im- 
mersed in water glass. How does this differ from that first examined ? 
Explain the difference. What is water glass? How does water 
glass preserve eggs? 

116. — Various other preservatives are used to keep eggs. Ex- 
plain the use of the following : 



lime 


lard 


paraffin 


sawdust 


vaseline 


cold storage 



Cooking of Eggs. Temperature and Time 

117. — For this experiment select saucepans of imiform size, shape, 
and material, using i pint of water in each case. 

a. boil egg rapidly for i minute \ have the water boiling 
h, boil egg rapidly for 3 minutes J when the egg is immersed. 

c. put egg in water at 80° C, cover and let stand for 
10 minutes. 

d. put egg in cold water and bring to the boiling point. 

e. boil an egg for 10 minutes. 
/. boil an egg for 20 minutes. 

g. put an egg in water at 80° C, cover and allow to stand 
for 45 minutes. 

h, put an egg in water at boiling point, cover and allow 
to stand 45 minutes. 

118. — Arrange a repetition of the above experiment so that eggs 
will be ready to remove from shell at the same time. Remove 
egg from shell. Examine and compare yolks and whites as to tex- 
ture, ease of removing from shell, firmness of white, toughness of 
white. 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 109 

119. — Remove eggs from shell and cook as follows, using i pt. of 
water in each instance. Use first an iron frying pan, then an agate 
or enamel pan. Compare the results. 

a. Poach egg in hot water imtil yolk is coated. (Save the 
water.) 

b. Repeat, using i tsp. salt in water. 

c. Repeat, using i tsp. vinegar in water. 

d. Turn egg into boiling water, remove from bunsen burner, 
cover and let stand 2 minutes. 

e. Compare each result as to texture, firmness of yolk, 
taste. Save the water in each instance for the next experiment. 

120. — Examine the water used in Expt. 119, a, with the following 

tests: 

Biuret, page 85 

Xanthoproteic, page 85 

Iodine, page 13 

Fehling-Benedict solution, page 13 

Filter a little of the water used in 119 and heat filtrate. 
Conclusions ? 

121. — Beat an egg white until stiff, fold in 3 tbsp. granulated 
sugar. Drop by spoonfuls on to a greased paper and bake in a slow 
oven imtil brown. Try to remove | of the meringue at once. Allow 
the remainder to stand imtil cold. Remove. Compare with those 
removed while warm. Explain the difference. 



Soft-cooked Egg 

Ingredtents : 

I egg I c. boiling water 

Method: 

Place boiling water in a saucepan. Put unbroken egg carefully 
in saucepan, cover pan and let stand 5 minutes. 



Hard-cooked Egg 
Prepare as soft-cooked, but allow egg to remain in water 45 minutes. 



Digitized by 



Google 



no LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Coddled Egg 

Butter a ramekin. Break an egg carefully into a saucer and slip 
into the ramekin. Place in a pan of boiling water and cook until 
the white is firm. 

Shirred or Baked Egg 

Prepare as coddled egg. Cook in a pan of water in the oven. 
Ramekins may be lined with seasoned buttered crumbs and egg 
covered with the crumbs. 

Poached Egg 

Rub the bottom of an omelet pan lightly with butter. Fill pan 
three fourths full of boiling water. Break an egg into a saucer and 
slip into the boiling water. Lower flame so the water will not boil, 
and allow egg to remain in the water 3-10 minutes. If the water does 
not cover the yolk, dip water over it carefully with a spoon imtil a film 
forms over yolk. Remove with a skimmer to a slice of buttered 
toast and garnish with parsley. 

Scrambled Eggs 

Ingredtents : 

5 eggs J tsp. pepper 

J c. milk i tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. butter 
Method: 

Beat eggs slightly, add seasonings and milk. Heat omelet pan, 
put in butter, and when melted pour in the mixture. Cook until 
creamy, stirring and scraping from the bottom of the pan. 

Omelets 

For omelets select large eggs. Use i tbsp. of liquid and | tsp. of 
salt for each egg. Never try to make an omelet using more than 4 
eggs, as mixture will brown before being cooked through. Keep an 
omelet pan especially for omelets and see that it is kept clean and 
«mooth. 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES III 

Foamy Omelet 

Ingredients : 

2 eggs 2 tbsp. milk or water 

i tsp. salt cayemie or white pepper 

I tsp. butter 

Method: 

Beat yolks of eggs until light and creamy; add seasonings and milk. 
Beat the whites imtil stiff, but not dry; cut into yolks. Heat an 
omelet pan, rub it with butter, pour in the mixture. and spread it 
evenly on the pan. Cook over low flame. When set, put in hot 
oven for a few minutes to dry on top. Fold and serve at once. 



French Omelet 

4 eggs J tsp. pepper 

4 tbsp. milk i tsp. salt 

2 tsp. butter 
Method: 

Beat eggs slightly, enough to blend yolks and whites. Add milk 
and seasonings. Put butter in hot omelet pan ; when melted, pour 
in mixture and place over a low flame. As it cooks draw the edges 
toward the center with a knife imtil the whole is of a creamy con- 
sistency. Place on hotter part of range that it may brown quickly. 
Fold and turn on hot platter. 

Additions : 

Grated cheese, jelly, jam, chopped meats, peas, or parsley placed 
in omelet before folding, or a highly seasoned tomato sauce may be 
served aroimd it. 

Egg-in-Nest 

Arrange stiffly beaten white of an egg on a slice of buttered toast. 
Make a depression in the center and drop in the imbeaten yolk. 
Sprinkle with salt. Brown in a moderate oven. 



Digitized by 



Google 



112 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Scrambled Eggs with Tomato Sauce 

IngredietUs: 

6 eggs 4 tbsp. butter 

if c. tomatoes i slice onion 

2 tbsp. sugar ^ tsp. salt 

i tsp. pepper 
Method: 

Simmer tomatoes and sugar five minutes ; brown butter and onion 
three minutes ; remove onion and add tomatoes, seasonings, and eggs 
slightly beaten. Cook as scrambled eggs. 

Eggs k la Goldenrod 

Ingredients: 

3 hard-cooked eggs J tsp. salt 

I tbsp. butter J tsp. pepper 

I tbsp. flour 5 slices toast 

I c. milk parsley 

Method: 

Make a thin white sauce with butter, flour, milk, and seasonings. 
Remove yolks from hard-cooked eggs. Chop whites finely and add 
to the sauce. Cut four slices of toast in halves lengthwise ; arrange 
on platter, and pour over the sauce. Force the yolks through a 
potato ricer or strainer, and sprinkle them over the top. Garnish 
with parsley and remaining toast cut in points. 

" Liquid Glass " for Preserving Eggs 
Ingredients : 

I qt. " liquid glass " (a concentrated commercial solution of 

sodium silicate). 
9 qts. boiled and cooled water. 

Method: 

Mix the liquid glass and boiled water in a clean crock or stone jar. 
Carefully wipe strictly fresh eggs and with a spoon or other con- 
venient utensil place the eggs in the crock. The crock may be 
filled with eggs to the point of the liquid just covering the top layer. 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 



113 



Cover the crock with tin cover or stone cover. It does not need to 
be air-tight. When removing eggs from the crock, do so with a spoon. 
Wash them carefully and, if they are to be boiled, prick the shell. 
The pores of the shell are filled with the liquid glass and as the air 
and water within the shell expand with the heat, the shell is likely to 
explode and thus spoil the egg as a " hard-cooked " product. 

FOOD VALUE 
Scrambled Egg 



Material 



Egg . 
Milk . 
Butter 
Salt . 
Pepper 

Total, cooked 
loo-Calorie Portion ^ 



ij tbsp. 
} tbsp. 



ic 
ic 



go 



45. 
22. 

7.8 



61.2 
42.8 



o s 

£0 



6.03 
.72 
.07 



6.82 
4.77 



4.72 

.88 

6.63 



12.22 

8.SS 



1.09 



1.09 

.76 



142 
100 



.0366 
.0022 
.0045 



.0433 
.03 



If 



039 
.034 
.0018 



,0748 
0523 



.157 
.045 

.0024 



.2044 
.143 



II 



.0012 
.0001 



.0013 
.0008 



SOUFFLES 

Souffles are combinations of cooked or uncooked mixtures and 
stiffly beaten whites of eggs baked in a moderate oven. They should 
be served immediately. A sauce improves fruit souffles. 

Whips are the same combinations unbaked and piled lightly in 
glasses for serving. 

Essentials for Successful Souffl6s 
Good eggs. 
Stiffly beaten whites. 

Buttered molds, — buttered and sugared for fruit souffles. 
Very moderate oven. 

1 Also called Standard Portion (S. P.). 
I 



Digitized by 



Google 



114 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Souffl6s 



Varieties: 

I. Made with a white sauce : 

a. Meat, fish, rice, cheese. 

b. Custard. 

n. Made without a white sauce : 

a. Vegetable. 

b. Fruit. 



Ingredients: 

f c. pulp sweetened 



Fruit Souffl6 



salt 



3 egg whites 



Method: 

Fresh, dried, or canned fruit may be used. Drain sirup from 
canned fruit. Press pulp through a strainer and add to the stiffly 
beaten whites. Use a Dover beater and continue beating imtil very 
light. Place in buttered, sugared molds in pan of warm water. 
Bake in a moderate oven until firm. 



Ingredients : 

3 tbsp. butter 
i c. flour 
i c. sugar 



Custard Souffli 



I c. scalded milk 

4 eggs 

I tsp. vanilla 



Method: 

Melt butter, add flour, and gradually hot milk ; when well thick- 
ened pour on yolks of eggs beaten imtil thick and lemon-colored, and 
mixed with sugar; cool, and cut and fold in whites of eggs beaten 
stiff and dry. Turn into buttered pudding dish, place in a pan of 
warm water, and bake in a moderate oven until firm. 



Lemon Souffl6 

Ingredients : 

Yolks 4 eggs 

Grated rind and juice i lemon 



I c. sugar 
whites 4 eggs 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 115 

Method: 

Beat yolks iintil thick and lemon-colored, add sugar gradually 
and continue beating, add the lemon rind and juice. Cut and fold 
in whites of eggs beaten imtil dry. Bake as Custard Souffl6. 

Vegetable Souffli 

Wash, peel, and mash vegetables as in preparing mashed potatoes. 
Moisten with milk or cream. Fold in the beaten yolks and siiffly 
beaten whites. Bake as Custard Souffl6. 

Com and Cheese Souffli 

Ingredients: 

I tbsp. butter i c. chopped com 

1 tbsp. chopped green pepper i c. grated cheese 
i c. flour 3 eggs 

2 c. milk i tsp. salt 

Method : 

Melt the butter and heat the pepper in it for 2 minutes. Add 
the flour, and stir the milk in slowly. When the white sauce is thick- 
ened, add the com, cheese, yolks of eggs, and seasonings. Cut and 
fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Bake as Custard Souffle. 

Meat Souffle 

Ingredients : 

1 c. thick white sauce J-i c. cooked meat, poultry, 
i~3 eggs or fish 

Method: 

Mix meat with warm sauce. Season highly. Cool and fold in 
stiffly beaten yolks and stiffly beaten whites. Bake as Custard 
Souffle. 

Cheese Souffle 

Ingredtents : 

2 tbsp. butter few grains cayenne 

3 tbsp. flour J c. grated Old English or 
J c. scalded milk Young America cheese 

I tsp. salt yolks 3 eggs 

whites 3 eggs 



Digitized by 



Google 



Il6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Melt butter, add flour, and, when well mixed, add scalded milk 
gradually. Then add salt, cayenne, and -cheese. Remove from 
fire. Add yolks of eggs beaten until lemon-colored. Cool mixtiure 
and cut and fold in whites of eggs beaten until stiff and dry. Bake 
as Custard Souffle. 

EXPERIMiENTS WITH DEEP FAT FRYING 

122. — a. Prepare potato chips by the following methods : 

Raw potato sliced very thin. 
Parboil potato and slice very thin. 
Raw potato soaked in ice water 20 minutes. 
Raw potato soaked in salt solution (2 tsp. salt to 2 c. 
ice water) 20 minutes. 
In each case dry the potato carefully befor^ immersing in the fat 
or oil. 

b. Prepare deep fat, using the following fats and oils : 

lard cottonseed oil 

crisco peanut oil 

olive oil com oil 

Arrange utensils and fats and oils so that the heating may begin at 
the same time. Note im'tial temperatures and length of time re- 
quired for the mediimi to reach the proper temperatures for deep fat 
fr3dng. Test constantly with a slice of raw imsoaked potato, and 
when each has reached the required temperature fry samples of the 
potato prepared in a separately in each mediimi. Note the tem- 
peratures of each fat or oil, the length of time required for frying 
each potato, and the character of the product. 

123. — If a thermometer of sufficient range is available, deter- 
mine the temperature at which each of the above fats shows 
evidence of being decomposed by heat. What is the evidence in 
each case? 

In a recent study by Blunt and Feeney (Journal of Home Eco- 
nomics, Vol. VII, page 535) the temperatures at which certain fats 
begin to give off visible fimies are reported as follows : 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS.. SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 1 17 

Cottonseed oil (Wesson) 233° C. 

Snowdrift 232° C. 

Crisco 231° C. 

Leaf lard 221° C. 

Butter fat 208° C. 

Leaf lard (heated ^ liours) 207° C. 

Bulk lard 194° C. 

A much-used lard 190° C. 

Olive oil 175° C. 

Peanut oil I 162° C. 

Peanut oil II 149** C. 

Coconut oil 136** C. 

flow do your results compare with these? Where results differ, 
is the difference attributable to differing conditions of experimenta- 
tion or to variation in the material tested ? 

124. — a. Prepare doughnuts, using the recipe in the book. Roll 
them to uniform thickness and cut with the same cutter. 

h. Arrange the following fats and oils in utensils of imiform 
size and shape and begin heating at the same time : 

Fats: 

lard olive oil 

i lard, \ crisco peanut oil 

crisco com oil 

beef drippings mutton drippings 

c. Note the initial temperatures of each fat or oil, and test- 
ing constantly witji the doughnut mixture, find the proper temper- 
ature for each mediiun for an imcooked flour mixture. 

d. Fry doughnuts in each fat and oil. Note the flavor of 
the product, the amount of fat absorbed, the color. Allow samples 
of each cooked doughnut to remain in a tin box and note the rapidity 
with which each becomes dry and hard. 

126. — a. Prepare rice croquettes. Shape croquettes, using ap- 
proximately the same amount of mixture in each croquette, measur- 
ing in level tablespoons. Fry croquettes in each of the above fats 
and oils immediately after using them for doughnuts. Note the 



Digitized by 



Google 



Il8 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

flavor of the croquettes, the absorption of odor of doughnuts, the 
color, crispness of the crust. 

b. Summarize your conclusions as to the appropriateness 
of each fat or oil as a frying mediimi. 

126. — Using the optimum temperatures for frying for each fat 
or oil, test the frying of a piece of bread. Notfe the niunber of seconds 
required by each fat to brown the bread. Does it prove the usual 
statement, " 40 seconds required for browning a piece of bread is 
sufficient for browning a cooked mixture — as croquettes; 60 sec- 
onds is required for cooking and browning an imcooked mixture " ? 

127. — Cut up in small pieces, weigh, and sauter equal quantities of 
boiled potato in unit quantities of each of the fats and oils. Weigh 
again and determine which fat is most easily absorbed by the potato. 

128. — From your correlated reading and experiments what do you 
conclude as to the wholesomeness of deep fat frying or sauteing of 
food as a method of cooking? 

Croquettes 

Croquettes are made with a base of meat, fish, egg, cheese, nuts, 
rice, beans, or other vegetables. These need to be combined with 
either white sauce, egg, starchy vegetables as potato, rice, cereals, 
or cnunbs. 

The crumbs: 

Use crumbs from outside of loaf for first coating, use crumbs from 
inside of loaf for second coating. 
Season crumbs before using. 
Cracker cnunbs are not desirable as they give a " pasty " crust. 

The egg: 

The whole egg is preferable. Add water equal to volume of egg. 
Beat slightly. 
If white alone is used, add to each white J tbsp. oil, J tbsp. water. 
If yolk is used alone, add J tbsp. cold water to each yolk. 

Note : The white alone gives a tough crust; the yolk gives a tender crust. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES II9 

The fat for frying : 

The fat should be unburaed lard, or crisco, free from particles of 
previous frying. 

Use a flat-bottom frying kettle, keep an iron gas spreader over the 
gas jet, and do not allow fat to bubble to rim of kettle. 

Test fat, timing the- browning of a piece of bread. Fry croquettes 
made with previously cooked mixtures about 40 seconds. Fry 
troquettes made with uncooked mixture 60 seconds. 

Drain croquettes on absorbent brown paper. Croquettes may be 
reheated in the oven or double boiler. 



Rice Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

i c. rice J tsp. salt 

2-3 tbsp. milk A tsp. pepper 

1 "egg cayenne 

2 tbsp. butter 2 tbsp. chopped parsley 

Method: 

Boil rice. Add milk, butter, seasonings, and beaten egg. Cook 
in a double boiler and cool. Form into balls, roll in sifted cnmibs, 
shape, dip in egg, and reshape. Chill. Fry in deep fat. 



Potato Croquettes 

Ingredients: 

2 c. hot riced potatoes cayenne 

2 tbsp. butter few drops onion juice 

§ tsp. salt yolk i egg 

J tsp. pepper i tsp. finely chopped parsley 

i tsp. celery salt milk if necessary 

Method : 

Add ingredients in order given to the potatoes* 
Proceed as for Rice Croquettes, 



Digitized by 



Google 



I20 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Cheese Croquettes 

Ingredients : , 

3 tbsp. butter i c. cheese cut in small cubes 

i c. flour J c. grated Parmesan cheese 

i c. milk. i tsp. salt 

yolks 2 eggs paprika 

Method: 

Make a white sauce of flour, butter, seasonings, and milk. Add 
beaten yolks and cheese. Cool. Proceed as for Rice Croquettes. 

Nut and Raisin Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

I c. stale bread crumbs 2 egg yolks 

i c. milk salt 

I c. chopped nut meats pepper 

I c. chopped raisins 
Method: 

Soak bread in milk imtil soft. Add nuts, seasonings, beaten yolks, 
and raisins. Proceed as for Rice Croquettes. 

Chicken Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

3^ c. chopped chicken i tbsp. parsley 

onion juice 2 tsp. lemon juice 

Make i pt. of very thick cream sauce : 

I pt. cream and milk ij tsp. salt 

i c. butter i tsp. white pepper 

J c. flour I tsp. celery salt 

cayenne 
Method : 

Add the sauce to the chopped chicken and seasonings. Cool. 
Proceed as for Rice Croquettes. 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 121 

Beef and Rice Croquettes 

Ingredients: 

1 c. chopped beef i tsp. pepper 
i c. rice (cooked) cayenne 

i tsp. salt tomato sauce 

Method : 

Mix beef and rice, add salt, pepper, and cayenne. Cool. Proceed 
as for Rice Croquettes. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Veal or Lamb Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

2 c. chopped cold cooked veal cayenne 

i tsp. salt few drops onion juice 

i tsp. pepper yolk i egg 

I c. thick white sauce or stock 
Method : 

Mix ingredients in order given. Cool. Proceed' as for Rice 
Croquettes. 

Score Card 

Croquettes 

General appearance 30 

Uniformity (10) 

Color (10) 

Size and shape (10) 

Mixture 50 

Consistency (40) 

Flavor (10) 

Crust 20 

Freedom from excessive fat (10) 
Thickness (5) 

Tenderness (5) ^ 

100 



Digitized by 



Google 



122 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 
References 

Atwater and Bryant. Composition of American Food Materials. 
United States Department of Agriculture, Ofl&ce of Experiment 
Stations, Bulletin 28. 

Barrqws. Eggs : Facts and Fancies Compiled about Them. 

Demonstrations. Eggs and Milk. Iowa State College of Agri- 
culture, Extension Department, Short Course Class Notes, No. 4. 

Langworthy. Eggs and their Uses as Food. United States De- 
partment of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 128. 

Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

Maurer. Bacteriological Studies on Eggs. Kansas State Agri- 
cultural College Experiment Station, Bulletin 180 (191 1). 

Remington. A Study of Commercial Eggs. United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Bulletin 51 (19 14). 

Sherman. Food Products. 

Thompson. Studies in Egg Marketing. University of Minnesota, 
Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 132 (19 13). 

TiBBLES. Foods: Their Origin, Composition and Manufacture. 

Wiley. Foods and their Adulteration. 

Cooking in Fats 

Blunt and Feeney. The Smoking Temperatures of Edible Fats. 
Journal of Home Economics, vol. VII, page 535 (December, 
1915). 



Digitized by 



Google 



.CHAPTER IX 
MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 

Meats are derived from the flesh of domestic and wild ani- 
mals chiefly if not exclusively of herbivorous habits, and from 
fowls. The most important kinds are beef (ox), veal (calf), 
mutton (sheep), lamb (yoimg sheep), pork (pig), ham and 
bacon (pig), venison (deer). Poultry includes chickens, turkeys, 
ducks and geese, guinea hens, and game birds. 

The quality of meat is dependent on the condition of the 
animal from which it is derived. Of all the foods, meat is the 
one most subject to conditions rendering it unwholesome or even* 
dangerous. Certain diseases of animals are communicable to 
man through eating of the flesh, and there is danger that through 
lack of cleanliness in slaughterhouses and exposure to dust 
and flies, meat may be infected with Bacillus enteritidis which 
produces poisonous products which are not destroyed by cook- 
ing and which are now considered to be the commonest cause 
of food poisoning — so-called " ptomaine " poisoning. 

The United States Department of Agriculture, imder the 
meat inspection law of 1906, provides for the inspection of 
establishments which send products into foreign or interstate 
commerce. There are, however, many establishments which 
do business entirely within one state and they may or may not 
have local inspection. For the need of state inspection see 
United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal 
Industry, Circular 154 (1908). 

In nteat as it is purchased we have bone, fat, and the flesh, 
consisting of the muscle of the animal with its connective tissue. 

"3 



Digitized by 



Google 



124 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

The color of the meat should be clear and bright, not purplish. 
There should be very little odor, and the meat should be firm 
and elastic to the touch. 

Meat is valuable chiefly for its protein, fat, and ash constit- 
uents. The protoplasm of the muscle cells consists mainly 
of prpteins partially dissolved in 3 to 4 times their weight of 
water. The fat is deposited partly in the cells and partly in 
the connective tissue between the cells, where it forms in layers. 
Fat does not alter the composition of the actual protoplasm 
since it neither dissolves in nor absorbs water. When an ani- 
mal is killed, the muscular protoplasm coagulates (rigor mortis), 
but without essential change in the amount or distribution of 
moisture, protein, or fat. Muscle protein and gelatin differ 
conspicuously in their content of amino acids. It is now known 
that the inadequacy of gelatin alone as protein food is due to 
the absence of certain amino-acid radicles, particularly trypto- 
phan and tyrosin. Special interest attaches to the " extrac- 
tives " of meat, to which its flavor is largely due, and to the 
purins which give rise to uric acid in the body. Among the 
extractives creatin is most conspicuous. The purins exist 
" free " (as in the form of hypoxanthin, adenin, guanin) and 
" bound " as constituents of the nucleoproteins. 

Cold storage, drying, canning, and the application of preserv- 
^ ative substances are the principal means of preserving meats. 
Salt, sugar, vinegar, and wood smoke are condimental as well 
as preservative in their properties, and there is no restriction 
upon their use. Saltpeter maintains the red color of meat and 
preserves it. Boric acid and borax, which when used are 
employed purely for their preservative effect, and sulphites 
are not permitted under the present United States meat in- 
spection law. 

For fuller discussion of composition, nutritive value, preser- 
vation and inspection of meat, read Sherman's Food Prod' 
ttctSy Chapters VI and VII. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 12$ 

MEAT EXPERIMENTS 

129. — Examine a shin of beef for fat, connective tissue, tendons, 
ligaments, blood vessels (veins and arteries), bone tissue, and muscles. 

Prepare round steak for the following experiments by grinding 
through meat grinder. 

130. — a. Mix 2 tbsp. meat and i c. cold water. Let stand i hour. 

b. Mix 2 tbsp. meat and i c. cold water and i tsp. salt. 
Let stand i hour. 

c. Mix 2 tbsp. meat and i c. cold water and i tbsp. vine- 
gar. Let stand i hour. 

d. Mix 2 tbsp. meat and i c. warm water and } tsp. salt. 
Let stand i hour. 

e. Mix 2 tbsp. meat and i c. boiling water. Boil i minute, 
and let stand i hour. Compare results. In which instances is most 
color and flavor extracted ? Explain these phenomena. 

' 131. — Remove as much muscle and fat as possible from a shoulder 
of veal. Crack the bone in several places. Place in cold water to 
cover, adding J tsp. salt to each pint of water and let simmer for 6 
hoiurs. Remove the bone, strain the liquid through a wet cheesecloth, 
and put in a cold place to cool. Let the stock remain in ice box 
overnight and then observe change in consistency. (Keep for Expt. 
132.) 

a. Note the layer of fat on surface covering the jelly under- 
neath. Could the small amoimt of fatty tissue left on the bone 
have furnished enough fat to form such a layer ? 

6. What was the source of the fat ? 

132. — To a small portion of the jelly from Expt. 131 apply the 
following tests ; 

a. Biuret, page 85. 

b. Xanthoproteic, page 85. 

c. Fehling-Benedict, page 13. 

d. Iodine, page 13. 



Digitized by 



Google 



126 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

133. — Note the color and flavor of the jelly. Why is it lighter 
colored and lacking in flavor ? What kind of meat is added to soup 
stock for color and flavor? Why? 

134. — Rub a piece of tough round steak with a small amount of 
baking soda. Allow it to stand | hour and then pan-broil. Repeat, 
using vinegar or lemon juice. Broil. Compare as to flavor, texture, 
ease of cutting with silver knife, and mastication. How do you 
account for the differences observed ? 

136. — Again prepare pieces of steak, A and B, as in Expt. 134. 
Put A in a hot frying pan, B in a cold frying pan. Turn each as soon 
as seared on one side. Compare as to texture, flavor, and amount 
of gravy left in pan. 

Conclusions. 

136. — Cut bacon into slices A, B, and C— 

A cut very thin i 

B cut moderately thin > weigh each 

C cut thick J 

Fry each to the following stages : rare, medivun, and crisp. Weigh 
the amount of fat left in pan in each case. How much is lost ? 

137. — Use slices tut as in A, B, C. Broil and compare with 
products in Expt. 136. Which method of preparing bacon is best ? 
Why? 

138. — a. Prepare a meat stew in both the pressure and firdess 
cooker. 

b. Compare the thoroughness of cooking, length of time 
required, flavor. 

c. Compute the saving in time, labor, and fuel. Note the 
temperature of each cooker. 

d. What are the advantages of the pressure and the fireless 
cookers over the coal or gas stove? 



Digitized by 



Google 




2. Cliiiok. 
8. Bibs. 

4» Shoalder olod. 
6. Fore shank. 

6. Brisket. 

7. Cross ribs. 

8. Plate. 
8. Nayel. 

10. Loin. 
U. Flank. 

12. Bump. 

13. Bound. 

14. Second cnt ronnd. 
18. Hind shank. 



Figure i. — Cuts of Beef (U. S. Dept. Agriculture). 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



128 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 




/ ^^/n7p 

/^, /?au/}c/s/caA:^4ffs/cim 
/S /t^TucAAs <sociD^c^ff, 

ys //ogA soL^ 6ooe, 

7 //p-^fO^?ff s/MkS7 sJ^paAr. 

€ '/m^>ciOG/xy^Asn^f0USff^Af(aAi 

3-/3 /rt?ptabr/>ar/cr:^ousffsA8iaA'^ 

/ /'A»f?A'sAs*9M 
2 S/e^. 



/ //f&/2^/xif6roas/i 
3 7<^AS^ /^/AroasA 

/ S^/?/6rtxysA, 
2-3 C^ucA-s/ieaAs. 
/0'/3Pb/roaisAs, 

A:^^71E' 

/ Br/sA»A 

2 -A/ai/»A 

3 A /PA^Gntaiy.. , 

/ SMh^. 

2. AtfTLfcA/eseMfSfAoffe^ 

3^ S^M^^a^s, 



Figure 2. — Side of Beef (U. S. Dept. Agriculture). 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 



129 




Digitized by 



Google 



I30 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 




Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 



131 




Digitized by 



Google 



132 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

SOUPS 

Soups may be divided into two main classes, meat soups and 
vegetable soups. Those made from meat obtain their flavor 
from extractives which are stimulating, but have almost no food 
value. Vegetable soups usually have a higher nutritive value, 
since the pulp of vegetables used as flavoring or thickening is 
commonly served as a part of the soup. 

Stock Soups 

Stock soups are made from beef, veal, mutton, fish, or poultry 
separately or in combination. Left-overs, meats or vegetables, may 
be used alone or with fresh meats to make stock. They often im- 
prove stock by imparting delicious new flavors. 
Bouillon, lean beef ; delicately seasoned, usually cleared. 
Cqnsommiy two or three kinds of meat; highly seasoned, al- 
ways cleared. > • 
Brown stock, beef; highly seasoned with vegetables, spices, and 

herbs. 
White stock, veal or chicken ; delicately seasoned. 
Old-fashioned stock, thickened witli vegetables. Some fat re- 
mains in this soup. 

Soup Accompaniments 

Flour pastes, plain and fancy Croiitons 

Vegetables, cut in plain and fancy shapes Cooked cereals 

Fritter batter, forced through a strainer and fried Royal custard 

Other Uses for Soup Stock 
Gravies Sauces 

Seasoning for meats Aspic jelly 

Preparation of combination soups as Creole, Mongole 

Meat left from soup making is tasteless, but contains about as 
much protein as fresh meat. It may be seasoned, mixed with a sauce 
and made into the following " Left-over " dishes : 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 



133 



Croquettes 


Hash Creamed on toast 


Minced on toast 


Souffle Scalloped 


Meat pie 


Cottage pie Casserole with vegetables 


Warmed in gravy 


Salad or rice 


Ingredients : 


Brown Soup Stock 


6 lbs. shin of beef (f lean 3 sprigs thyme 


meat, ^ bone and fat) 2 sprigs parsley 


3 qts. cold water 


carrot 




i tsp. peppercorns turnip 
6 cloves onion 


§ c. each cut in dice 


J bay leaf 


celery . 





I spng marjoram 
Method : 

Wipe beef and cut the lean meat in inch cubes. Brown § of meat 
in marrow from bone. Add the water to the remaining f meat, the 
bone and fat, and let stand 30 minutes. Add browned meat and heat 
gradually to boiling point. Remove scum as it rises. Cover and 
simmer 6 hours. Add vegetables and seasonings. Simmer ij 
hours longer ; strain and cool as quickly as possible. 

To Clear Soup Stock 
Method: 

Remove fat from stock while cold. Allow white and shell of i 

egg to I qt. stock. Beat white slightly, break shell in small pieces 

and add to stock. Boil 2 minutes. Remove scum and strain 

through double thickness of cheesecloth. If more seasonings are 

necessary, add as soon as stock has lost its jelly-like consistency. 



Ingredients : 

1 1 qts. chicken stock 

1 



Chicken Soup 



2 bay leaf 

i tsp. peppercorns 



2 tbsp. rice 
2 tbsp. noodles 
2 tbsp. vermicelli 

Method : 

Simmer stock and seasonings i hour. Strain. Add the rice and 

flour pastes, previously cooked in 2 c. boiling water in a double boiler. 



Digitized by 



Google 



134 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients: 

I c. cubed carrots 
I c. cubed turnips 

1 c. cubed celery 

2 c. cubed potatoes 
I c. chopped onions 



Vegetable Soup 



3 qts. water 

i c. butter 

2 tbsp. flour 

I tbsp. parsley 

I tbsp. salt 
J tsp. pepper 
Method: 

Cook all the vegetables except potato and onion in 6 tbsp. of butter 
lo minutes. Add the potato and cook 2 minutes, the onion and 
water and cook J hour. Mix 2 tbsp. of butter with the flour and 
add the first mixture slowly and the seasoQings. Cook i hour longer 
and add the parsley. 



Ingredients : 

I qt. brown stock 
I qt. tomatoes 
i onion sliced 
I sprig parsley 
i c. butter 
i c. flour 



Mongole Soup 



10 allspice berries 

6 cloves 

i bay leaf 

i tsp. celery salt 

i tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 

J tbsp. vinegar 



Method : 

Cook stock, tomatoes, onion, parsley, spices for 30 minutes. Brown 
butter, add flour and, gradually, the above mixture. Bring to the 
boiling point. Strain, add Worcestershire sauce and vinegar. 



Creole Soup 



Ingredients : 

I qt. brown stock 

1 pt. tomatoes 

3 tbsp. chopped green peppers 

2 tbsp. chopped onion 
i c. butter 

J c. flour 



salt 

pepper 

cayenne 

2 tbsp. grated horseradish 

I tsp. vinegar 

i c. macaroni rings 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 135 

Method: 

Cook pepper and onion in butter 5 minutes. Add flour, stock, 
tomatoes. Simmer 15 minutes. Strain, rub through a sieve and sea- 
son highly with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Just before serving, add 
horseradish, vinegar, and macaroni previously cooked and cut in rings. 

MEATS 

Tender Cuts 

Roasting 

Wipe, trim, tie, or skewer meat into shape. Place on a rack in a 
pan and place pieces of fat from the meat over it. Rub meat over 
with salt and dredge meat and pan with flour. 

Place in the hottest part of oven to sear the outside and brown the 
flour; then remove to a lower shelf and reduce the temperature; 
baste meat every ten minutes until done, unless a covered roaster is 
used. 

Time-table for Roasting 

Beef — rare 8-10 minutes per lb. 

Mutton 1$ minutes per lb. 

Veal 20 minutes per lb. 

Pork 30 minutes per lb. 

Chicken until joints separate easily 

Turkey — 10 lbs 3 hours 

Fillet of Beef I 

The tenderloin of beef is known as the fillet. 

Trim into shape a fillet of beef weighing about foiu: pounds, re- 
moving tendinous portions and veins. Tie and skewer this into a 
pear-shaped piece. Lard the top, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and 
dredge with flour. Cover the bottom of a small dripping pan with 
cubes of salt pork. Set a trivet on top of pork, and place the meat 
on the trivet ; allow the meat to roast from 20-30 minutes in hot 
oven, basting it frequently. 

Serve with gravy made from fat in pan, flour, and hot water. 



Digitized by 



Google 



136 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Fillet of Beef n 

Ingredients : 

I fillet of beef i stalk of celery 

I small onion 4 cloves 

I small carrot 2 bay leaves 

Method: 

Remove all the membranes and excess of fat from the fillet. Cut 
strips of larding pork 3 inches long, J inch wide, and | inch thick. 
Chill the strips in ice water. Lard the upper side of the fillet, slice 
the onion, carrot, and celery and place them with the cloves and bay 
leaves in the bottom of the pan. Place the fillet on the vegetables, 
season with salt and pepper, and cover with pieces of butter. Dis- 
solve I tsp. salt in | c. boiling water and pour into the pan. Roast 
in a hot oven for 30 minutes. Baste frequently. Serve with mush- 
room sauce, if desired. 

Stuffed Flank Steak or '' Mock Duck " 
Ingredients: 

1 flank or round steak suet 

dressing (see below) 
Method: 

Wipe meat, spread with dressing, roll and tie, or skewer. Place 
suet on top and roast i hoiu:, or imtil tender. 

Dressing for Flank Steak 

Ingredients : 

2 c. bread cnmibs i tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. butter J tsp. pepper 

1 tbsp. parsley J tsp. poultry seasoning 

juice of i onion if desired 

Brown Gravy 

Ingredients : 

2 c. boiling water or J milk J c. flour 
salt i c. fat 

pepper 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 137 

Method: 

Remove all but } c. of the fat from roasting pan. Place over fire, 
add flour and stir imtil well browned, then add water slowly; boil 
5 minutes. Season and strain. 



Broiling 

Remove extra fat from meat. Grease the broiler with some of the 
fat. Place broiler close to flame to sear meat, then remove to lower 
part of broiling oven to finish cooking, turning often. Season with 
butter, salt, and. pepper. 

Pan-Broiling 

Heat an iron pan very hot. Remove extra fat from steak or chops. 
Sear meat on both sides, then turn frequently until cooked as desired, 
using a knife and fork for turning. Five minutes is necessary for 
lamb chop or steak one inch thick. Season with butter, salt, and 
pepper. 

Broiled Lamb or Mutton Chop 

Wipe chops, remove superfluous fat, and place in a broiler greased 
with some of the mutton fat. In loin chops flank may be rolled and 
fastened with a small wooden skewer. Broil over a clear fire, turning 
every ten seconds for the first minute, that surface may be well 
seared, thus preventing escape of juices. After the first minute, 
turn occasionally until well cooked on both sides. 



Broiled Fillet of Beef 

Cut slices about two inches thick from fillet. Shape in circles. 
Place the circles on greased broiler and broil over hot coals from 
4-6 minutes, turning them every 10 seconds. Serve on hot 
platter ; garnish with slices of broiled tomato and brown mushroom 
sauce. 



Digitized by 



Google 



138 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Hamburg Steak 

Ingredients : 

I lb. round of beef i tsp. onion juice 

I tsp. salt I tbsp. butter 

I tsp. pepper i tbsp. parsley 

Method: 
Shape into cakes and pan-broil. 

Pan-Broiled Chops 

Chops for pan-broiling should have flank and most of fat removed. 
Wipe chops and put in a hissing, hot fr3dng pan. Sear on both sides, 
then turn frequently until cooked as desired. Drain on brown paper, 
put on hot platter and spread with small amount of butter and 
seasonings. 

Breaded Mutton Cutlets 

Ingredients: 

8 Frenched chops, cut thin \ tsp. salt 

I tbsp. butter f tsp. pepper 

4 tbsp. flour I c. cream 

J c. chopped ham 
Method: 

Make a white sauce of the above ingredients. When thoroughly 
cooked add the finely chopped ham, mix thoroughly and set aside to 
cool. Broil the chops. Season each chop with salt and pepper, 
and cover on both sides with a layer of the sauce. Allow them to 
stand on a buttered plate until firm, then dip in egg and crmnbs and 
fry in deep fat until brown. Serve with Cuban or tomato sauce. 



Veal Cutlets I 

Cut a slice from the leg or fillet of veal into pieces for serving. 
Dredge with salt, pepper, and flour ; brown in bacon or salt pork fat. 
Remove from pan. Put 2 tablespoons of flour in the pan ; let brown ; 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 139 

I , 

add I J cups of broth or water. When it boils, add the cutlets, cover 
and simmer J of an hour, or until the cutlets are tender. 



Veal Cutlets n 

Use slices of veal from leg cut J inch thick. Wipe, remove bone 
and skin, then cut in pieces for serving. The long, irregularly-shaped 
pieces * may be rolled and fastened with small wooden skewers. 
Dip in seasoned crumbs, egg and crumbs; place in a pan with butter, 
lard and water, cover and cook until tender in a moderate oven. 30 
to 40 minutes is required. 

Veal Loaf 

Ingredients: 

3 lbs. lean veal (chopped) 2 tbsp. lemon juice 
i lb. salt pork (chopped) i tbsp. salt 

6 crackers (groimd) J tbsp. pepper 

4 tbsp. cream onion juice 

Method: 

Mix ingredients, pack in a bread pan, smooth evenly on top, brush 
with white of egg, and bake slowly three hours, basting with pork 
fat. Prick frequently while baking so that pork fat may be absorbed. 

Sweetbreads 

Remove from paper as soon as received from market, plunge into 
cold water and allow to stand r hour. Drain. Place in boiling. 
Salted water and add i tsp. lemon juice or vinegar. Cook slowly 
twenty minutes; again drain and plunge into cold water. Free 
from pipe and skin, salt if necessary, and serve as desired. 

Broiled Sweetbreads 

Parboil and cut in halves crosswise. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and broil 5 minutes. Serve with creamed butter to which 
has been added a little lemon juice. 



Digitized by 



Google 



I40 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Creamed Sweetbreads 

Ingredients : 

I c. cream or rich milk i tsp. salt 

' 2 tsp. butter 2 tbsp. flour 

. Method: 

Parboil sweetbreads and cut into | inch cubes. Blend flour and 
a little cold milk to make a smooth mixture. Scald cream in double 
boiler, add the flour mixture and cook thoroughly. Just before 
serving, add the prepared sweetbreads, salt, and butter. Serve hot 
on toasted circles of bread and garnish with parsley, or use as a 
fllHng for Swedish Timbales or Croustades. 

Bacon I 

Place thin slices of bacon (from which the rind has been removed) 
closely together on a fine wire broiler; place broiler over dripping- 
pan and bake in a hot oven until bacon is crisp and brown, turning 
once. Drain on brown paper. 

Bacon n 

Remove rind from bacon and parboil until sHghtly puffed. Place 
in hot irying pan and fry until a light brown, turning often and 
removing fat from pan as it tries out. The bacon should be crisp 
and flaky. 

Tough Cuts 
Pot Roast of Beef 

Select a piece of four to six pounds from the rump or round. Wipe 
with a dampened cloth and sear all of the surface in a hot fr)dng pan. 
Place in saucepan, add i cup of boiling water, cover closely and cook 
slowly until very tender. Sprinkle with salt when nearly done. 
Add water if necessary, but only enough to keep meat from burning. 
Add water to make a gravy thickened with i| tsp. flour to i c. 
liquid. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 141 



Beef Stew 

Ingredtents : 


' 


3 lbs. round of beef 


3 carrots 


water to cover 


I onion 


6 potatoes 


salt 


flour 


pepper 



Note : i. Salt should be added in the proportion of J tsp. ; pepper J tsp., and 
flour 4 tsp. to I qt liquid. A fireless cooker is convenient for 
stews. 

Method: 

Cut beef in pieces, cover with water, bring to boiling point and 
simmer 3 hours, or until meat is tender. Add diced vegetables i hour 
before meat is cooked. Remove vegetables and meat and thicken 
the liquid. Boil 5 minutes and return meat and vegetables to the pan. 

Note : 2. Serve with dumplings made like emergency biscuit with shorten- 
ing omitted. Drop by spoonfuls on top of stew, cover, and 
steam until done, then cook three minutes uncovered. 



Beef Broth 

Ingredients: 

J lb. round of beef i c. cold water 

salt 

Method: 

Wipe meat, remove fat, and cut meat in pieces. Add cold water 
and let soak 15 minutes. Put in pan of cold water. Heat water 
slowly to 150 degrees F. Cook 2 hours. Strain and season. Reheat, 
skim off fat with spoon and paper. In reheating, be careful not to 
coagulate the albvmiin. 

Beef Juice 

Select a piece of meat from the rump or upper roimd. Wipe, re- 
move fat, cut in pieces, heat in a double boiler until juice flows. 
Squeeze out the juice by means of a press, lemon squeezer, or potato 
ricer. Serve at once in a colored glass. 



Digitized by 



Google 



142 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Left-over Meats 

Meat Cakes 

Ingredients: 

2 c cold roast beef i egg 

J c. crumbs 2 tsp. melted butter 

seasoning 

Method: 

Shape into oval cakes and brown in butter. 



Meat Pie 

Ingredients : 

2 c. chopped roast beef i c. mashed potatoes 

gravy seasoning 

Method: 

Combine ingredients except potatoes. Place in a buttered baking 
dish and cover with mashed potato. Brush with beaten egg. Bake 
until potatoes are slightly browned. 



Browned Hash 
Ingredients: 

1 c. meat 4 tbsp. fat 

2 c. mashed potatoes salt and pepper 
i c. boiling water onion juice 

chopped parsley 

Method: 

Put the mixture into a frying pan in which i tbsp. of fat has been 
heated. Spread smoothly ; cook over moderate heat so it will brown 
slowly and not bum. Cook about one half hour and do not stir. 
Fold like an omelet. 

The same mixture may be made into small cakes f inch thick and 
browned in the same way. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 143 

Casserole of Rice and Meat 

Ingredients : 

2 c. cooked lamb i tbsp. chopped parsley 

I tsp. salt I egg (may be omitted) 

\ tsp. pepper \ c. fine cnmibs 

\ tsp. onion juice 4 c. boiled rice 

stock 

Method: 

Season meat and mix with cnmibs and beaten egg; add enough 

stock to make it pack easily. Line a mold with 3 c. rice, fill with 

the meat ; cover with remainder of rice, cover tightly and steam 45 

minutes. Serve with Cuban sauce. 



Casserole of Beef 

Cut cold roast beef and steak alone or in combination in i inch 
cubes ; there should be one quart. Put in a casserole dish and add 
2 c. brown sauce or roast beef gravy, i c. celery, and \ c. carrots cut 
in cubes, i onion thinly sliced, i c. canned tomatoes, i tsp. Worces- 
tershire sauce, i tsp. salt, and J tsp. pepper. Cover and bake one 
hour ; then add i c. peas, beans, or mushrooms, canned or fresh, i c. 
potato balls, previously cooked in boiling salted water 10 minutes. 
Serve from casserole. 

Casserole of Veal 

Ingredients : 

I lb. veal 3 c. stock 

3-4 small onions i small piece salt pork 

i c. cubed carrots i small piece suet 

i c. cubed onions 6 tbsp. flour 

I stalk celery kitchen bouquet 

8 potato balls seasonings 

Method: 

Brown the vegetables and meat in tried-out salt pork. Make a 
brown sauce with flour and stock. Pour over the meat and vege- 
tables in a casserole. Bake one hour. 



Digitized by 



Google 



144 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 

2 c. lamb 

2 tbsp. butter 

3 tbsp. flour 
J tsp. salt 
cayenne 



Souffle of Lamb 



I tsp. kitchen bouquet 

J c. stock 

I c. cream or milk 

J c. cnunbs 

I tsp. parsley 



3 eggs 



Method : 

Prepare sauce, add meat, crumbs, and seasonings. Add the well^ 
beaten yolks, and fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Bake in 
moderate oven until light. 



ients : 




Royal Scallop 






I lb. ham 

3 hard-cooked 

parsley 


eggs 




3 tbsp. flour 
3 tbsp. butter 
I pt. milk 



2 c. buttered crumbs 
Method : 

ScaJd a blade of mace with the milk, and strain. Make a white 
sauce of the butter, flour, and hot milk. Chop ham and eggs, add 
parsley and white sauce. Prepare as any scalloped dish. Bake in 
hot oven imtil crumbs are brown. 



Meat Sauces 



Ingredients : 

I tbsp. chopped onion 
I tbsp. chopped carrot 
I sprig parsley 
I sprig thyme 
piece bay leaf 



Brown Sauce 



2 tbsp. butter 

3 tbsp. flour 
i tsp. salt 

i tsp. pepper 
I c. brown stock 



Method: 

Cook the vegetables and herbs in the butter until brown ; add the 
flour (an extra tbsp. is used as flour loses its thickening quality to 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 145 

some extent when changed to dextrin) and brown. Add the stock 
gradually. Stram before usmg. 

Brown Mushroom Sauce 

To I c. of brown sauce add ^ c. canned button mushrooms, whole 
or cut in halves. Fresh mushrooms must be cleaned, pulled, browned 
in butter or simmered in water until tender, before they are added to 
the sauce. 

Mushroom Sauce 

Ingredients : 

drippings from fillet i pt. stock 

2 tsp. butter i pt. cooked mushrooms 

4 tsp. flour I tsp. Worcestershire sauce 

salt and pepper 
Method : 

Heat the butter and drippings until brown, add the flour and then 
the stock gradually. Strain and add the mushrooms. Cook 5 
minutes. Add Worcestershire sauce, salt, and pepper. 

Cuban Sauce I 

Ingredients : 

1 pt. tomatoes § tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. sugar i c. flour 

1 c. lamb stock J c. butter 

Method: 

Cook first two ingredients imtil tomatoes are soft, strain and add 
stock. Melt butter, add flour, and when browned add liquid gradually. 

Cuban Sauce n 

Ingredtents : 

2 tbsp. chopped ham i^ c. stock 
4 tbsp. flour I c. catsup 
4 tbsp. butter J tsp. salt 

Method : 
Cook ham in the butter imtil browned. Proceed as for White Sauce 

L 



Digitized by 



Google 



146 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Horseradish Sauce ' 

Ingredients : 

3 tbsp. grated horseradish cayenne 

I tbsp. vinegar i c. cream (whipped) 

i tsp. salt 

Method: 
Mix first four ingredients. Fold in the cream. 

Spanish Sauce for Steak 

Ingredients : 

i c. catsup I tsp. Worcestershire sauce 

Method: 
Thicken with floiu:, add i c. mushrooms, and i tsp. horseradish. 

Score Card 

Roast of Meat 

General appearance 30 

Compactness (10) 

Form (10) 

Color (10) 

Meat 70 

Flavor 
Retained (25) 

Seasoning (10) 

Degree of Cooking (10) 

Tenderness developed by Cooking (25) 

100 

GELATIN 

Commercial gelatin is obtained from the skin, ligaments, and 
bones of sound animals. Gelatins made in the kitchen are 
obtained from the tissues, ligaments, and bones of young ani- 
mals or fowl. Gelatin as a food cannot meet the entire protein. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 147 

requirement, since it is lacking certain animo-acid radicles, 
the most important being tryptophan, but this lack* may be 
offset by using with gelatin other foods such as milk or cream 
whose proteins are rich in tryptophan. Gelatin is an excellent 
medium for using or disguising milk, eggs, or fruit and may thus 
play a very important part in the diet. 

GELATIN EXPERIMENTS 

In these experiments gelatin used for desserts will be considered. 
See meat experiments, also. 

139. — Have at hand samples of various gelatins. Use each 
gelatin as follows : 

a, I tsp. gelatin and J c. hot water. 

b, I tsp. gelatin and J c. boiling water, 
c, . I tsp. gelatin and J c. cold water. 

In which is the gelatin most soluble? 
Does it dissolve in cold water? 

140. — Use one of the dissolved gelatins to make the following tests : 

Biuret, page 85. 
Xanthoproteic, page 85. 
Fehling-Benedict, page 13. 
Iodine, page 13. 
Coagulation on boiling. 

Note : It will hardly be necessary to test each gelatin for the above re- 
actions. 

141. — Make three solutions A, B, C, using non-acidulated gelatin 
(i tsp. gelatin soaked in i tbsp. cold water, add | c. boiling water). 

Boil A for 5 minutes. Set on ice in mold. 

Boil B for 10 minutes. Set on ice in mold. 

Boil C for 15 minutes. Set on ice in mold. 

Which is most desirable ? What has happened to the gelatin? 

142. — Make four solutions, A, B, C, D, as in Expt. 141. 
Put A on ice in mold. 



Digitized by 



Google 



148 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

To B add i c. lemon juice. Put on ice in mold. 

To C/ add 2 tbsp. fresh pineapple juice or 4 tbsp. pineapple pulp. 
Thoroughly mix and put on ice in mold. 

To D add 2 tbsp. fresh pineapple juice which has been boiled for 
2 minutes. Thoroughly mix and put on ice in mold. 

What do you observe in B, C, D? How do you accoimt for the 
failure of the gelatin to solidify in B and C ? 

Compare the consistency of A and D. How do you accoimt for 
the delicacy of D ? B'eat D with a Dover egg beater imtil foamy. 
What gives it this appearance ? 

Have the class divided so that all brands of gelatins are 
used. Compare results. 

Make a table showing the proper amount of : gelatin, liquid, 
fruit juice, sugar. 

Gelatin Desserts 
General Rules 

Fill molds with cold water and let stand. 

Soak gelatin in cold water to soften it. 

Add the boiling liquid to the softened gelatin to dissolve it. 

Add sugar to this mixture while hot to dissolve the sugar. 

Strain fruit gelatins through a wet cheesecloth before cooling. 

Cover gelatin mixtiures while cooling to protect from dust. 

Varieties 

1. Fruit jellies : Mold after straining; when firm turn 

Lemon jelly out on serving dish. Serve with soft 

Orange jelly custard or whipped cream. 

2. Fruit jellies with white Cool imtil sirupy. Add stiffly beaten 

of egg : egg white and beat imtil firm enough 

Snow pudding ; Sponges to mold. 

3. Fruit jellies with cream : Add whipped cream when sirupy. 

Bavarian creams 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 



149 



4. Custard jellies : 

Spanish cream 
Macaroon cream 

5. Charlottes: 



Add stiffly beaten white to custard jelly. 
After straining, beat occasionally while 

cooling. Mold when begins to thicken. 
Jellies with the whip from thin cream. 
Add the whip when the mixture begins 

to thicken. 



Fruit Jellies 



Ingredients: 
Gelatin . . 
Cold water . 
Boiling liquid 



Sugar . . 
Fruit juice 



Orange 
2 tbsp. 
ic. 
li c. water 



I c. 

li c. orange juice 

juice I lemon 



Prune 
2i tbsp. 

J lb. prunes and 
liquid to make 
2 c. 

I c. ' 

i c. lemon juice 



Lemon 
2 tbsp. 
ic. 
I c. water 



ic. 

i c. lemon juice 



Ingredients: Coffee Wine 

Gelatin 2 tbsp. i tbsp. 

Cold water . . . . i c. i c. 

Boiling liquid ... i c. water i c. 

Sugar i c. i c. 

Fruit juice .... juice i lemon, juice i orange 
2 c. boiled coffee i c. wine 

Fruit : When orange or lemon jelly begins to thicken, add shced 
bananas, cherries, pieces of cooked pineapple, nuts, and orange sections. 

Fruit jellies with whip : Fill glasses } full and let stand until firm. 
Cool a small portion of the jelly until sirupy. Whip until frothy 
and place on top of glasses. 



Sponges 

Ingredients: Pineapple 

Gelatin 2 tbsp. 

Cold water i c. 

Boiling water i c. 

Sugar i c. 

Pineapple juice } c. 

Egg whites 3 

Shredded pineapple . . . . i can 



Chocolate 
2i tbsp. 
ic 
I oz. chocolate and 2^ c. 

scalded milk 
6 tbsp. 
i tsp. salt 
3 whole eggs 
I tsp. vanilla 



Digitized by 



Google 



I50 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Snow Puddings 

Ingredients: Lemon Orange 

Gelatin 2 tbsp. 2 tbsp. 

Cold water J c. J c. 

Boiling water i c. i c. 

Sugar } c. } c. 

Lemon juice J c. 3 tbsp. 

Orange juice I c. 

Egg whites 3 3 



Spanish Creams 

Ingredients: Plain 

Gelatin , .... 2 tbsp. 

Cold liquid J c. milk 

Scalded milk 2J c. 

Egg yolks 3 

Sugar J c. 

Salt itsp. 

Vanilla i tbsp. 

Egg whites 3 

Macaroons 



Macaroon 

2 tbsp. 
J c. water 
2 c. 

3 

ic 

itsp. 



} c. crumbs 





Bavarian Creams 




igredients: 


Cofee 


Grape 


Orange 


Gelatin . . . 


li tbsp. 


if tbsp. 


I tbsp. 


Cold water . 


ic. 


2} tb^. 


ic 


Boiling liquid 


J c. coffee 


I c. grape jmce 


J c. water 


Sugar . . . 


ic 


I c. 


I c. 


Fruit juice . 




4 tbsp. lemon 


I c. orange jmce 






juice 


i lemon 


Cream . . . 


li c. (whipped) 


li c. (whipped) 


I c. (whipped) 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 



151 







Charlottes 








» 


Russe 


Orange 


Strawberry 


Caramel 


Chocolate 


Cofee 


Gelatin. . . . 


litbsp. 


iltbsp. 


stbsp. 


xi tbsp. 


xi tbsp. 


xl tbsp. 


Cold water . . 


ic 


ic 


ic. 


ic. 


ic. 


Jc. 


Boiling liquid . 


|c. cream 


i c. water 


J c. water 


I c. water 


ic. cream 


i c. coflfee 


Sugar . . . . 


ic. pow- 
dered 


I c. 


X c 


I c. cara- 
melized 


Ic. 


ic. 


Thin cream (whip 














from) . . . 


3ic. 


3C. 


3C. 


3C. 


3C. 


3C. 


Flavoring . . . 


litsp. 


xc. orange 


2 c. straw- 


X tsp. 


X oz. 






vanilla 


juice 
3tb8p. 
lemon 
juice 


berry pulp 
X tbsp. 
lemon 
juice 


vanilla 


choco- 
late 
X tsp. 
vanilla 





Note : The cream left after removing the whip may be used for other pur- 
poses. 

Score Card 



Gelatin Desserts 



General appearance 
Container 
Form 
Color 

Appearance 
Garnish 

Gelatin mixture 
Density 



40 



(5) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 

(5) 



60 



(10) 

Flavor (40) 

Imperceptibility of gelatin (10) 



References 

Atwater. Poultry as Food. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Farmers' Bulletin 182 (1903). 

Atwater and Bryant. The Composition of American Food Mate- 
rials. United States Department of Agriculture, Office of Ex- 
periment Stations, Bulletin 28 (Revised). 

Carver. The Pickling and Curing of Meat in Hot Weather. Tus- 
keegee Institute, Experiment Station, Bulletin 24 (191 2). 



Digitized by 



Google 



152 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Cook. Bouillon Cubes : Their Contents and Food Value compared 
with Meat Extracts and Homemade Preparations of Meat. 
United States Department of Agriculture, Bulletin 27 (1913). 

Edelmann. Textbook of Meat Hygiene. 

Green. How to Cook Meat and Poidtry. 

Grindley. Studies of the Effect of Different Methods of Cooking 
upon the Thoroughness and Ease of Digestion of Meat. United 
States Department of Agricidture. Office of the Experiment 
Stations, Bulletin 193 (1907). 

Hall. Market Classes and Grades of Meat. University of Illinois, 
Agricidtural Experiment Station, Bulletin No. 147. 

Hall and Emmett. Relative Economy, Composition and Nutri- 
tive Value of the Various Cuts of Beef. Illinois Agricultural 
Experiment Station, Bulletin 158 (191 2). 

Langworthy. The Guinea Fowl and its Use as Food. United 
States Department of Agricidture, Farmers' Bulletin 234 (1905). 

Langworthy and Hunt. Mutton and its Value in the Diet. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 526 

(1913). 
Langworthy and Hunt. Economical Use of Meat in the Home. 

United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 

No. 391 (Corrected 1910). 
Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

LiGHTON and Douglas. The Meat Industry and Meat Inspection. 
Mitchell. Flesh Foods. 
Pennington. The Handling of Dressed Poultry a Thousand Miles 

from the Market. Yearbook of the Department of Agriculture 

for 191 2. 
Sherman. Food Products. 
Sprague. a Precise Method of Roasting Beef. University of 

Illinois, Bulletin 419 (1907). 
Wiley. Foods and their Adidterations. 

Wiley and Bigelow. Preserved Meats. United States Depart- 
ment of Agricidture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 13, Part 

10. 
White. Meat. Ohio State University, Agricultural College Home 

Makers' Reading Course (191 2). 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER X 
POULTRY 

In selecting poultry see that the flesh is firm, that there is a 
fair amount of fat underneath the skin, that the latter is whole 
and of a clear yellow color, and that the odor is good. Chickens 
and fowls have certain characteristics which make them read- 
ily distinguishable. Chickens have soft feet, a flexible breast 
bone, many pin feathers, and little fat, while fowls have hard 
and scaly feet, a rigid breast bone, long hairs, and a large 
amoimt of fat aroimd the intestines. 

Poultry is not classed as belonging to the slaughterhouse 
industry and does not come imder the provisions of the meat 
inspection law. 

The composition of poultry is essentially the same as that of 
meat. The light meat is composed of more tender fibers less 
firmly held together by connective tissue than the dark meat. 
Light meat also contains less fat. For these reasons, it is apt 
to be more rapidly digested, at least in the stomach, and is 
therefore preferable for persons having weak digestion. 

Dressing and cleaning poultry. The " dressing " of chicken is 
often done now at the market. If it is necessary to do it, make an 
incision with a sharp knife just inside one of the kgs, in the groin. 
Remove all entrails. Loosen skin at neck and remove crop. Wash 
thoroughly inside and out, holding the cavity under running water. 
Singe hairs by holding over burning paper or gas flame. Remove 
pin feathers with the point of a knife and cut the oU bag from the tail. 
If it is a fowl, take out the tendons separately, using a skewer. Cut 
the gall bladder away from the liver and cut off the outer coat of the 

153 



Digitized by 



Google 



154 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

gizzard. Place gizzard and heart in cold water; heat quickly to 
boiling and then simmer until tender. Add the liver a short time 
before removing the other giblets. The giblets may be chopped and 
added to the gravy. 

Trussing poultry. Insert a skewer underneath the legs, then 
thrust another one through the wings and breast. With string, tie 
the ends of the legs together and fasten them to the tail. Wind the 
ends of the string fastened to the tail, around the ends of the skewer 
beneath the legs. Cross the strings over the back, and wind them 
around the ends of the skewer through the wings; tie the strings 
together at the back. 

Boning poultry or birds. To bone birds, chickens, or turkeys, 
select imdrawn birds with head and feet on. Remove pin feathers 
and singe. Draw tendons from the legs by making an incision just 
below the knee joint, and with a strong skewer draw the tendons out 
one at a time. Loosen the skin near the feet and cut off feet. 
Make an incision through the skin from the neck to the tail, the 
entire length of the backbone. Scrape the flesh from the bones until 
the shoulder blade is foimd, then continue scraping around the wing 
joint. Scrape down the backbone to the thigh, then around the 
second joint and leg, cutting tendinous portion when necessary. 
When one side of backbone is boned, bone the other, then remove 
flesh from breastbone, on either side of bird. When flesh is all 
separated from bone, discard carcass {i.e. the skeleton with entrails, 
etc.), wipe flesh and skin, and arrange in original shape. The birds 
may be seasoned and broiled, or stuffed, sewed into shape and steamed. 
Small birds are generally prepared the former way, and large birds 
the latter way. 

Roast Chicken 
Time: 4 lbs. ij hrs. 

Fill cavity of a dressed chicken with stuffing (see below) and sew 
edges together. Truss and place on its back in a roasting pan. 
Dredge with flour, and salt, spread with butter, or lay strips of bacon 
across the chicken. Brown in a hot oven, then reduce temperature, 
cover and baste frequently until breast meat is tender. 



Digitized by 



Google 



POULTRY 155 

Stuffing for Roast Chicken 

Ingredients : 

I c. crumbs onion juice 

i c. melted butter parsley 

J tsp. salt I tsp. poultry seasoning 

i tsp. pepper 

Gravy 

Pour off liquid from the pan and place 2 tbsp. chicken fat or butter 
in the pan. Brown with 2 tbsp. flour and i c. stock in which giblets 
were cooked. Season. Strain. 

Evaporate water in pan and add floiur. Brown and proceed as 
above. 

Add the flour mixed with a Httle cold milk to the boiling liquid in 
the pan. 

To Cut up a Fowl for Stewing 

After removing entrails and other organs singe, draw out pin 
feathers, remove tendons, and oil bag. Cut through flesh, at thigh, 
bend back legs and cut off. Separate second joint and drum stick. 
Remove wings and cut off the tips. Separate back from breast by 
cutting through the ribs. Cut breast in two with a cleaver. 

Stewing 

Cover pieces of fowl with boiling water. Simmer until tender, 
adding salt when half cooked. 

Fricasseed Chicken 

Dredge stewed chicken with flour ^nd brown in chicken fat. Ar- 
range on toast surrounded with white or brown sauce and biscuits. 

Fried Chicken 

Dip stewed chicken in flour, egg and flour. Brown in chicken fat 
and lard, or butter and lard. Serve with brown sauce. 



Digitized by 



Google 



156 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Maryland Chicken 

Dip stewed chicken in flour, egg and fine crumbs. Place in a 
dripping pan with pieces of salt pork or chicken fat. Cover and bake 
30 minutes. Serve with white sauce, broiled bacon, and com fritters. 

Sauce for Chicken 



Ingredients: 








2 c. chicken stock 




4 tbsp. flour 




(half milk may be 


used) 


salt 




4 tbsp. chicken fat 




pepper 






2 tsp. parsley 






Chicken Pic 


i 




Ingredients: 








I stewed fowl cut in 


pieces 


biscuit crust (2 c. 


flour) 


2 c. brown sauce 




parsley 





Method : 

Place the chicken in a buttered baking dish, add the brown sauce 
and parsley and cover the mixture with biscuit dough. 

Place a cup in center of baking dish to hold up crust if the baking 
dish is large. Have the brown sauce and chicken hot when the 
crust is added. Bake in a hot oven. 

Chicken en Casserole 

Dress and clean a young, tender fowl and cut in pieces for serving. 
Spread with J c. butter, put in a casserole and sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Pour over i c. boiling water, cover, and cook until chicken 
is tender, the time required being about i hour. Add i c. cream 
and 2 c. mushrooms. Cook 10 minutes and thicken with i tbsp. 
flour, diluted with 2 tbsp. water. 

Creamed Chicken 

Equal parts cubed chicken and medium white sauce. Use chicken 
fat instead of butter and half milk and stock for the liquid in the 
white sauce. 



Digitized by 



Google 



POULTRY 157 

Chicken k la King 

Ingredients : 

I c. chicken cut in strips 35 tbsp. fat 

1 c. sauteed mushrooms i tbsp. cornstarch 
\ c. pimentoes ij c. stock 

\ c. peas or half milk and stock 

J c. string beans J tsp. salt 

I egg yolk 

Creole Chicken 

Ingredients : 

4 tbsp. butter 4 tbsp. flour 

i c. finely chopped onion 2 c. chicken stock 

2 c. stewed tomatoes i finely chopped red pepper 
^ c. celery salt 

I chicken 
Method: 

Cut chicken in pieces for serving. Brown chicken in butter with 
the onion. Remove chicken, add flour, chicken stock, tomatoes, red 
pepper, celery, and salt. Cook until flavors are well blended. Pre- 
pare chicken in sauce and cook imtil tender, adding more water as 
liquid evaporates. 

Arrange on serving platter ; surroimd with gravy and garnish with 
cooked macaroni and parsley. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER XI 
FISH AND SHELLFISH 

There is a steadily increasing tendency towards better con- 
servation and more economical utilization of the fishery prod- 
ucts as food. The Government maintains a Bureau of ^ Fish- 
eries and has established stations on the coast and inland lakes 
for the study and protection of these food supplies. The fish- 
ery industries are capable of great development both by im- 
proved methods of handling the well-known species and by 
utilizing as food the flesh of species formerly neglected. 

According to the quantity of fat it contains, fish may be di- 
vided into two classes : (a) lean, or white fish, and (b) oily, or 
dark fish. The flesh of lean fish is light in color and the oil 
is concentrated in the liver. The flesh of oily fish is dark in 
color, and the oil is distributed throughout the body. Cod, hali- 
but, haddock, etc., are white fish. Salmon, mackerel, herring, 
etc., are dark fish. 

Fish may also be divided into two classes, according to the 
water in which they live, fish from the sea being termed salt- 
water fish, and those from inland lakes and rivers, fresh-water 
fish. 

Detailed information in regard to the various species of food 
fish may be obtained from the Reports and Bulletins of the 
United States Bureau of Fisheries. 

Fish is at its best when cleaned and cooked just after being 
caught. Fish to be sold " fresh " may be sent directly to 
market or may be kept in cold storage either chilled to ice 
temperature or hard frozen. In selecting fish see that the 

158 



Digitized by 



Google 



FISH AND SHELLf ISH 



159 



flesh feels firm, that the eyes are bright and bulging, and that 
the gills are red and free from blubber. 

From most standpoints fish and shellfish are interchangeable 
with meat in the dietary. There is a general similarity in the 
chemical structure of the proteins, and the coefficients of diges- 
tibility of fish are approximately equal to those of meat. 

Many kinds of fish are preserved in large quantities by drying, 
salting, smoking, canning, or by combinations of these methods. 
For outlines of the preparation of salt codfish, canned salmon 
and sardines in oil see Sherman's Food Products , pages 230-236. 

Methods of cooking fish: 

boiling braising frying 

steaming baking " planking " 

broiling 

Techniqiie of cooking fish. To prevent flesh falling apart, due to 
tendency of the connective tissue to dissolve, 
a. Wrap in cheesecloth when boiling. 
h. Coat with egg and crumbs when frying. 
c. Place on strips of buttered cheesecloth when baking. 
Cleaning fish. Rub off scales from tail to head with a sharp knife. 
Cut through the skin of the back and abdomen, loosen it at the tail 
and pull it off. Remove head, open abdomen and take out the in- 
ternal organs. Wash in cold, salt water. 

Boning fish. Slit the flesh down the back and separate flesh from 
side bones. Pull out the spine and attached bones. 

Fish in combination with other food : With potatoes as fishballs, 
with ^ggs as souffle, with white sauce as croquettes, creamed or 
scalloped, with celery as salad. 

Vegetables suitable for serving with fish as garnish are : 

potato baUs or curls parsley cuciunber 

Sauces for fish : 

drawn butter Bechaynel ^g 

sauce tartare olive cheese 

HoUandaise 



Digitized by 



Google 



l6o LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Boiled Fish 

Thick pieces, or whole, small fish 
I tbsp. salt to 3 qts. water 

Wrap in cheesecloth, plunge into boiling water. Simmer 30-40 
minutes, or until tender. 

Broiled Fish 

Broil the flesh side first, then turn and broil other side. The 
length of time for cooking depends on the thickness of the fish. 
Season with butter, salt, pepper, and garnish with parsley. 



Steamed Fish 

Wipe fish with damp cloth. Wrap in chee&ecloth and steam or 
boil until tender. Time varies with size and shape of fish. At end 
of 5 minutes, add i tbsp. of salt. A little vinegar may also be 
added to the water. 



Baked Stuffed Fish 

Wash fish and dry with cheesecloth. If not cleaned, remove in- 
ternal organs. Remove backbone by beginning at the tail and with 
a sharp knife push the flesh away from the bones. Wipe with damp 
cloth, sprinkle with salt, and stuff. Sew with coarse cotton, insert 
slices of salt pork at intervals on each side. Bake in hot oven, allow- 
ing 15 minutes to the pound with 15 minutes additional. Serve 
with HoUandaise Sauce. 



Stuffing for Fish 

Ingredients: 

2 c. bread crumbs i tsp. onion juice 

i tsp. salt I tsp. chopped parsley 

J tsp. white pepper i tsp. capers or chopped pickles 

cayenne i c. melted butter 



Digitized by 



Google 



FISH AND SHELLFISH l6l 

Fish Cooked in Fat 

Season with salt and pepper, dip in flour, egg, and dried crumbs. 
Fry in deep fat. Drain on paper. 

Fried Smelts 

Clean smelts, leaving on heads and tails. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, dip in flour, egg, and crumbs, and fry 3-4 minutes in deep 
fat. Arrange on hot platter. Garnish with parsley and lemon. 
Serve with Sauce Tartare. 

Shad Roe 

Wash and cook in boiling, salted water 10 minutes. Drain and 
dry. Season. Broil or brown in butter. 

Turbans of Flounder 

Clean fish, remove skin and backbone. Cut each fillet in two 
pieces or if very large three pieces. Season with salt and pepper, 
roll and fasten with small skewers or toothpicks. Dip in crumbs, 
egg and crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Drain on brown paper and serve 
with Sauce Tartare. 

Planked Haddock 

Skin and bone a haddock, leaving meat in two fillets. Brown fillets 
separately. Remove to a plank and season with salt and pepper. 
Garnish with mashed potatoes, outHning the original shape of the 
fish. Bake until potatoes are well browned. Finish garnishing with 
parsley and slices of lemon covered with finely chopped parsley. 

Fish. Combined with Other Foods 

Fish BaUs 

Ingredients : 

1 c. salt codfish i egg 

2 c. potatoes i tbsp. butter 

J tsp. pepper 

M 



Digitized by 



Google 



l62 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Wash the fish m cold water and break into small pieces. Wash 
and pare the potatoes and cut into pieces. Cook the fish and potatoes 
together in boiling water until the potatoes are soft. Drain and 
shake over the fire until dry ; mash with a wire potato masher, add 
the beaten egg, butter and pepper, and beat until light. Take up 
the mixture by spoonfuls, mold slightly and slip into the hot fat. 
Fry imtil brown, or shape into round, flat cakes, dredge with flour 
and brown in butter. 

Scalloped Fish 

Ingredients: 

2 c. flaked fish 2 c. medium white sauce 

I c. buttered crumbs 

Creamed Codfish 

Reheat boiled codfish in mediimi white sauce. An egg may be 
added. Serve on toast. 

Fish Chowder 

Ingredients: 

5 lb. haddock 4 c. cold water 

4 c. diced potatoes 2 tbsp. butter 

I onion 4 tbsp. flour 

i c. diced salt pork 4 c. scalded milk 

salt, pepper, cayenne 10 buttered crackers 

Method : 

Remove head, skin, and bones and cut fish into fillets. Cover 
head, skin, and bones with cold water. Simmer 20 minutes, strain, 
and reserve liquid. Parboil potatoes 10 minutes. Cook onions in 
salt pork until yellow. Remove onion and salt pork if desired. 
Arrange fish and potatoes in layers, seasoning with salt and pepper. 
Cover with water in which bones were cooked and simmer imtil 
potatoes are tender. Combine mixtures and pour over buttered 
crackers which have been soaked in enough cold milk to moisten 
them. 



Digitized by 



Google 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 163 

Fish Sauces 

Egg Sauce 

ingredtents: 

I pt. boiling water i tsp. salt 

i c. butter i tbsp. lemon juice or vinegar 

cayenne 2 hard-cooked eggs 

Method: 

Prepare in the same way as white sauce. The eggs may be chopped 
or the whites sHced and the yolks pressed through a sieve and added 
to the sauce. 

Drawn Butter Sauce 

Ingredients: 

J c. butter i§ c. hot water 

3 tbsp. flour J tsp. salt 

J tsp. pepper 

Method : 

Melt ^ the butter, add flour and seasonings and gradually the hot 
water. Boil 5 minutes and add remaining butter in small pieces. 



Bechamel Sauce 

Ingredients : 

ij c. white stock J c. butter 

I sKce onion J c. flour 

I slice carrot i c. scalded milk 

I bay leaf ' J tsp. salt 

parsley J tsp. pepper 

Method : 

Cook stock 20 minutes with onion, carrot, bay leaf, parsley ; strain. 
There should be i cupfid. Melt the butter, add flour and gradually 
hot stock and milk. Season with salt and pepper. 



Digitized by 



Google 



l64 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Maitre d'Hdtel Butter 

Ingredients : 

i c. butter i tbsp. chopped parsley 

J tsp. salt f tbsp. lemon juice 

i tsp. pepper 
Method: 

Put butter in a bowl and cream. Add salt, pepper, and parsley, 
then lemon juice very slowly. The heat of the meat or fish v ill 
dissolve the butter. 

Sauce Tartare 

To f c. mayonnaise dressing add J tbsp. each, finely chopped. 

capers onions 

pickles parsley 

5 shallot 1 , .^^ , 

, J J . } may be omitted 

J tsp. powdered tarragon J 

Hollandaise Sauce 

Ingredients : 

i c. butter I tsp. salt 

2 egg yolks ^ tsp. cayenne 

1 1 tsp. lemon juice ^ c. boiling water 

Method : 

Cream the butter and add yolks one at a time ; beat well. Add 
seasoning, then boiling water and cook over hot water, stirring con- 
stantly \mtil mixture thickens. Remove from fire, add lemon juice 
and serve at once. 

Mock Hollandaise Sauce 

Ingredients : 

3 tbsp. butter i tsp. salt 
3 tbsp. flour |-i lemon 
2 c. milk 2 eggs 

Method : 

Prepare white sauce. Pour over beaten eggs, stir until it thickens. 
Add lemon juice before serving. 



Digitized by 



Google 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 



l6S 



FOOD VALUES 
Creamed Codfish on Toast 



Material 









ss 

£0 



,§1 



"1 01 B 



o«0 

S3 



Bread . 
Fish . 
Butter 
Butter 
Flour . 
Milk . 

Total, 
cooked 

loo-Calorie 
portion 



2 slices 
2 tbsp. 
li tbsp. 
2 tbsp. 
2 tbsp. 
I c. 



78 
14.6 

15.7 

28 

14.1 

216.6 



7.2 

4 
.15 
.28 

1.58 
7.14 



.92 

.04 

13.34 

23.8 

.14 

8.67 



40.78 



10.56 
18.83 



200 

17 
121 

215 

50 
150 



.008 

.009 

.0119 

.0212 

.0015 

.0225 



.022 
.003 
.004 
.006 
.004 
.358 



.15 

.09 

.004 

.008 

.025 

.454 



.0006 
.0001 



.0002 
.0005 



2 slices 1 

bread > 
f c. fishj 

i slice 

bread 
J c. fish 



333 



242.9 



20.4 



2.7 



46.91 



6.2 



70.17 



9.33 



753 



.0742 



.396 



.053 



.731 



.097 



.0014 



SHELLFISH 

Shellfish are divided into two classes: (a) mollusks, and 
(b) crustaceans. Clams, oysters, scallops, and mussels belong 
to the first class, and lobsters, crabs, shrimps, and crawfish 
belong to the second class. 

Oysters. Oysters are the most important of the shellfish 
as factors in the general food supply. The flavor depends 
on the locality in which they are grown. The smaller are 
sought for serving raw, and the medium and larger for cooking. 
They are in season from September to May and are much safer 
in the latter part of the winter.^ The whole flesh of the oyster 

^The danger of infection through eating oysters from polluted waters is dis- 
cussed in Prescott and Winslow's Elements of Water Bacteriology, and Sherman's 
Food Products, 



Digitized by 



Google 



l66 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

is edible, even the muscle by which it opens and shuts its shell 
being tender. 

Clams. Clams are of two kinds. They are known as hard 
and soft, or round and long, and in Rhode Island the hard, 
round clam bears the Indian name Quahaug, the soft-shell clam 
being the only " clam." The round clams are raked from the 
bottom of shallow waters and are used when young and small 
in place of raw oysters. The long clams lie buried in the mud 
of creeks and shores left exposed at low tide, and are dug out 
of the mud with hooks. Both kinds of clams have a tough' 
portion that is softened in cooking and that is more or less 
indigestible. The long " neck " which protrudes from the 
shell should be discarded. Clams are always in season. They 
are cheap and are commonly used in soups and chowders. 

Scallops. Scallops as purchased consist solely of the round 
white muscle which operates the shell. The scallop is migra- 
tory and reaches the creeks and shores in autumn. 

Lobsters.' The muscle of lobsters compares favorably with 
meat. When fresh, and served at a suitable time, lobsters are 
not indigestible. 

Crabs. Crabs, like lobsters, shed their shell annually. When 
the new shell is forming, they are called soft-shell crabs. They 
are found near the coast of the Southern and Middle States, 
and are usually high-priced. Crabs should be inspected accord- 
ing to the rules for lobsters. 

Steamed Clams 

For steaming, clams should be bought in the shell. Wash in 
several waters. Place in saucepan, allowing J c. water to i qt. 
clams. Cover closely and steam until clams partially open. Care 
should be taken not to overcook them. Serve with melted butter. 
A few drops of lemon juice may be added to the butter. 



Digitized by 



Google 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 167 

Clam Broth 

Ingredients : 

2 doz. clams water 

2 tbsp. butter pepper 

salt 
Method : 

Wash and scrub clams and place in saucepan with cold water. 
Cook until shells are open. Evaporate liquid down to 2 c. Remove 
soft part from shells, add to liquid, add seasonings, reheat, and serve 
^th a cracker or piece of toast. 

^ Clam Chowder I 

Ingredients: 

3 doz. clams i onion 

1 c. boiling water 4 tbsp. butter 

2 c. potato cubes 4 c. scalded milk 

4 slices bacon 8 crackers 

salt and pepper 
Method: 

Wash and steam clams. Remove meat and chop. Cook potatoes, 
bacon, onion, salt, pepper, and butter in clam juice until vegetables 
are soft, adding more water if needed. Add clams and simmer 3 
minutes. Add milk and crackers before serving. 

Clam Chowder II 

Ingredients : 

i§ doz. clams J tsp. tabasco sauce 

I c. tomatoes J tsp. salt 

I tbsp. catsup J tsp. pepper 

-n j 4 slices bacon i tsp. parsley 

\ I cubed potato i onion 

1 slice toast — diced J sliced lemon 

2 tbsp. cracker crumbs 
Method : 

Strain liquor from clams, add to B with boiling water. Simmer 
until potatoes are tender, add A, boil 3 minutes. Add C. 



{: 



Digitized by 



Google 



/ 



/ 



l68 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Oyster Broth 

Ingredtents : 

I c. oysters i tsp. salt 

ij c. milk pepper 

1 5 tbsp. water i tbsp. butter 

Method : 

Scald milk. Heat oysters in water mitil plump. Add milk and 
seasonings. 

Oyster Stew 

Ingredtents : 

I pt. oysters i pt. thin white sauce 

Method : 

Heat the oysters in their own liquor or sufficient water imtil the 
edges curl. 

Add cooked oysters to white sauce just before serving. 



Oyster Cocktail 

Ingredtents: 

I tsp. grated horseradish 2 tbsp. tomato catsup 

6-8 drops tabasco sauce J tsp. salt 

J tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

Method : 
Serve in glasses or in halves of grapefruit. 



Fried Oysters 

Ingredients : 

2 doz. large oysters i§ c. grated crumbs 

I egg and i tbsp. water salt, pepper 

Method : 

Drain oysters, wash, dry, and season with salt and pepper. 
Crumb, egg and crumb oysters, and fry in deep fat. 



Digitized by 



Google 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 169 

Pigs in Blankets or Oysters in Bacon 

Ingredients : 

1 doz. oysters 4 slices toast 

I doz. slices bacon 
Method: 

Drain oysters, wash, dry, and roll each in bacon. Fasten with 
skewer. Cook in hot omelet pan until slightly crisp and brown. 
Remove skewer and serve on toast. 

Oyster Fricassee 

Ingredients : 

i c. butter paprika 

2 tsp. salt pepper 

2 qts. oysters 
Method : 

Place butter, salt, and pepper in a saucepan, and when hot, add 
oysters. Cover and shake until oysters are plump. Drain and add 
cream to the liquid to make 2 c. 

Make sauce of the 2 c. liquid 2 tsp. lemon juice 

J c. butter 2 eggs 

i c. flour 
Add oysters. Serve on toast. 

Lobsters 

Directions : 

Lobsters should be bought alive. Small ones, heavy for their size, 
are best. If they are bought after being cooked, the tail should 
spring back quickly when straightened, otherwise the lobster was 
dead before being cooked. 

Cook 15-30 minutes below boiling point. When done, place in 
cold water. If cooked too long, they become tough. 

Break off the claws, separate tail from body and body from shell. 
Save the coral. Crush the tail by pressing the sides together, then 
pull or cut it open on the under side and take out the meat in one 
piece. Remove the intestine which runs the entire length. Break 
off the tan from the body before picking the meat from the joints. 



Digitized by 



Google 



lyo LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

The gUls, the stomach, and the itUestines are the only parts not eaten. 
The liver may or may not be eaten. Break the body in the nuddle 
lengthwise and pick the meat from the joints. Pound the claws 
carefully so that the meat may be removed without being crushed. 
The meat should not be kept more than i8 hours after it is cooked. 
Season with salt and cayenne, pack in a covered jar, and place on 
ice. If French dressing is to be used, omit salt and cayenne from the 
recipe. 

If it is desired to save the tail for serving the salad, break it on the 
inside. 

Lobster Newburg 

Ingredients: 

2 c. lobster meat nutmeg 

2 tbsp. butter \ c. sherry 

J tsp. salt 2 tbsp. brandy 

cayenne J c. thin cream 
3 egg yolks 
Method: 

Melt butter, add lobster meat, and cook 3 minutes. Add cream 
and egg yolks slightly beaten. Stir the mixture imtil thickened, over 
hot water. Add wine and serve. 

Devilled Crabs 

Ingredients : 

6 crabs \ tsp. mustard i tbsp. lemon juice 

2 tbsp. butter 2 drops tabasco sauce i tsp. parsley 

2 tbsp. flour f tsp. salt \ tsp. Worcestershire sauce 

cayenne ij c. cream 

Method : 

Cook crabs in boiling water (salted) for 20 minutes. Place in cold 
water for a few minutes. Pick out the meat, being careful not to 
break the shell. Make a sauce of the remaining ingredients, season 
highly, and add crab meat to it. If the mixture is too sti£f, add milk 
or cream to make the right consistency. Wash and scrub the upper 
shell and fill with the mixture. Cover with buttered crumbs and 
bake from 15-20 minutes, or until brown. 



Digitized by 



Google 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 171 

Soft-shell Crabs 

Method: 

Lift each point of the back shell and remove the spongy substance 
found beneath it. Turn the crab on its back and remove the semi- 
circular piece of dark, soft shell called the " apron," and the spongy 
substance under it. Wash and dry. Proceed as for Fried Oysters. 

References 
Fisk 

Atwater and Bryant. The Composition of American Food Mate- 
rials. United States Department of Agriculture, Office of 
Experiment Stations, Bulletin 28 (Revised). 

Green. How to Cook Fish. 

Green. How to Cook Shellfish. 

Langworthy. Fish as Food. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Farmers' Bulletin 85 (Revised 1907). 

Melner. Digestibility of Fish and Poultry. Storrs (Conn.) Agri- 
cultural Experiment Station, Seventeenth Annual Report, 
pages 1 16-142 (1905). 

Prescott and WmsLOW. Elements of Water Bacteriology. 

Sherman. Food Products. 

Thompson. Practical Dietetics. 

United States Bureau of Fisheries. Reports and Bulletins. 

Wiley. Foods and their Adulterations. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER Xn 
FLOUR MIXTURES 

Flour mixtures are taken to mean food materials in which 
the basis is flour to which is added liquid, and a leaven ; sugar, 
butter, and various fruits or condiments may be added also. 
These mixtures are baked, fried, or steamed. The composition 
and nutritive value of a flour mixture naturally varies with the 
ingredients. No general statements need be attempted, but 
the student should work out the food values of as many of the 
products as time permits. See also A Laboratory Manual for 
Dietetics, Mrs. Mary S. Rose, and Bulletin 28, of the Office of 
Experiment Stations, United States Department of Agriculture. 

For the purposes of this book it seems best to take up the 
experiments on Flour Mixtures as a connected group, while a 
division is made in the recipes. 

FLOUR EXPERIMENTS 

143. — To i c. bread flour in a bowl, add just enough cold water 
to make a stiff dough. Knead with a wooden spoon or the fingers 
for 5 minutes. Cover the bowl with a cheesecloth and allow it 
to stand for 30 minutes so that the water may develop the full amount 
of gluten.^ 

After the dough has stood for 30 minutes, add sufficient cold water 
to cover the mixture and knead the mass gently but thoroughly in 
the bowl. 

* At least four different kinds of protein can be isolated, but the most important 
for us to take account of are gliadin, and glutenin, the essential constituents of 
"gluten." 

172 



Digitized by 



Google 



FLOUR MIXTURES 173 

a. Notice the milky color of the water as soon as the 
kneading begins. 

b. To what is the milky color due? 

c. Determine by the iodine test, page 13. 

144. — Continue kneading the mass, changing the water fre- 
quently until it no longer shows the milky color. 
The resultant mass is gluten. Notice the stringy j elastic character. 
Notice the color. 
Save for subsequent experiments. 

Note : Perhaps some of the class have made "gum" by chewing wheat grain 
and remember the sticky, elastic mass with sweetish taste which results. 

146. — To small portions of the washed gluten, apply the following 
tests : 

a. Xanthoproteic, page 85. 

b. Iodine, page 13. 

c. Fehling-Benedict, page 13. 

146. — Burn a small portion ; an odor as of burning wool or feathers 
is noticed. 

What material bums with such an odor? 

147. — Dry a small piece of gluten with a cheesecloth. 
Place it on an ungreased pan and bake it in a hot oven. 

The mass will expand, but, on removing from the oven, will contract. 
What causes it to change shape ? 
How can it expand and contract without cracking ? 
To which class of foodstuffs does gluten belong? What are its 
physical characteristics? 

148. — To give the class a more comprehensive idea of gluten, the 
instructor should contrast the following by preparing gluten or 
attempting to prepare gluten : 

a. pastry flour d. graham flour 

b. rye flour e. com meal 

c. entire wheat 

Note : These experiments should demonstrate to the class the reasons for 
the thorough kneading of breads as contrasted with the slight 
beating of cake after the flour has been added. 



Digitized by 



Google 



174 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Bread 
149. — Make a microscopic examination of bread and pastry flour in : 

a. A drop of cold water. 

h, A drop of dilute iodine. 
Describe your observations. 

160. — Do the same with rye and com meal. 

161. — Apply the iodine and Millon tests to small pieces of both 
the crust and Jthe soft inner portions of a piece of bread. 

What do you notice as to the intensity of color and quickness of 
reaction? 

162. — a. Separate the crust and softer part. Put each, broken 
into small pieces, into a small beaker of cold water. Let stand 30 
minutes and then filter through a wet fluted filter. 

h. To the filtered extract from each beaker, apply the 
following tests : 

Iodine, page 13. 

Fehling-Benedict, page 13. 

Biuret, page 85. 

Xanthoproteic, page 85. 
c. After performing 6, what are your conclusions? 

163. — The instructor will be able to amplify the experiment by 
repeating 161 and 162 with portions of the following food materials : 

a. plain muffin c. soda cracker. 

h. plain cake. J. uneeda biscuit. 

Review the experiment with dextrin (page 61). 

MufSns 

164. — Use recipe for plain muffins. Combine ingredients in the 
following manner and bake samples at the following temperatures : * 

1 These temperatures are suggested by Miss Van Arsdale in the Bulletin, Some 
Attempts to Standardize Oven Temperatures for Cookery Processes. Note which 
range in temperature approximated a satisfactory result. Take the most satis- 
factory range and again bake muffins, using the selected temperatures as a starting 
point from which to formulate a range in temperature which produces desirable 
results. What conditions influence the production of muffins and necessitate a 
graduation in temperature ? 



Digitized by 



Google 



FLOUR MIXTURES 175 

250-350° F. 
350-400° F. 
400-450° F. 
450-550° F. 

xn all the experiments with Flour fixtures use the temperatures 
stated above as a starting point from which to make your own tem- 
peratiires. 

a. Sugar, unbeaten egg, melted shortening, dry ingredients, 
liquid. Mix thoroughly. 

6. Sugar, egg beaten with Dover egg beater, dry ingre- 
dients, liquid, melted shortening, no fextra mixing. 

c. Shortening creamed, yolk of egg, sugar, \ liquid, dry 
ingredients, § liquid, stiffly beaten whites of eggs folded in. 

d. Dry ingredients, chop in shortening, sugar, liquid, im- 
beaten eggs. 

e. 'Compare results as to texture, flavor, crust, excess fat. 

166. — Use recipe for Plain Muffins. Combine ingredients as above. 
Other ingredients being alike in each case, use for shortening the 
following : 

a. butter 

h. i butter, \ lard 

c, lard 

rf. oleomargarine 

e. crisco 

/. corn oil 

g, pure cottonseed oil 

h, cheese 

166. — As in Expt. 166, except as follows : 
Use for liquid the following : 

a. sweet milk 

6. sour milk 

c, buttermilk 

d, condensed milk (diluted) 
c. milk powder (liquefied) 
/. i milk, § water. 

g. water. 



Digitized by 



Google 



176 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

167. — As before, except as follows : 

Use for leaven the following (calculate the amount of leaven re- 
quired in each case) : 

a. soda and cream of tartar 
h, soda and sour milk 

c. alum baking powder 

d. phosphate baking powder 

e. yeast 

In each Expt. (165-167) 

a. Compare the practical use of the variations in ingredients. 
h. Compare approximate differences in cost in variations. 
c. Conclusions. 

Biscuits 

168. — Use recipe for Baking Powder Biscuits. Combine ingredi- 
ents in the following manner : 

a. Dry ingredients, shortening chopped in, liquid. Mix 
with a knife just enough to combine the ingredients. Turn the dough 
on a slightly floured board and roll it out, cut (see Expt. 169) , and bake. 

h. Dry ingredients, liquid, melted shortening stirred into 
mixture with a spoon. Turn it on a slightly floured board, roll, cut 
out (see Expt. 169), and bake. 

169. — Divide biscuits cut out in Expt. 168 into three parts, 01, 02, 
a3 ; 61, 62, 63. Brush ai and bi with a little milk before baking. 
Brush a2 and 62 with a little melted butter before baking. Bake 
a3 and 63 as cut out. Compare results. 

160. — Use recipe for Baking Powder Biscuits. 
Substitute for butter the following shortenings: 

a. § butter, \ lard /. chicken fat 

h. oleomargarine g. olive oil 

c. lard h, cottonseed oil 

d. crisco i, com oil 

e. beef drippings j, peanut oil 
Compare the results as to appearance, flavor, texture. 

161. — Compute the cost of the products of Expt. 160 and compare 
with the rating as to quality. 



Digitized by 



Google 



FLOUR MIXTURES l^^ 

Pastry 

162. — Use recipe for plain paste. Combine ingredients in the 
following manner : 

a. Dry ingredients, shortening chopped in, ice water. 
Chill before rolling out. 

h. Dry ingredients and ice water made into a dough. Roll 
mixture on a pastry cloth. Fold and roll the shortening in. 

c. Dry ingredients and melted shortening mixed as much 
as possible. Chill, chop mixture into uncombined flour. Add ice 
water. 

Note : An interesting observation can be made from the following experi- 
ment: 
Dry ingredients, measured and melted shortening, versus dry ingre- 
dients, melted and measured shortening. 

163. — From the results of Expt. 162 decide upon the best method 
of combining ingredients and bake the following pies in this manner : 

Pastry shell : 

a. dredge with flour — apple pie. 

h, brush over with white of egg — custard pie. 

c. bake before filling — cream pie. 

Sum up your observations concerning shortenings used in pastry, 
methods of combining, and baking of pies. 

Cake 

164. — Note that the general rule for plain cake conforms to these 
proportions ; 

\ as much shortening as sugar. 

i as much liquid as flour. 

2 tsp. of baking powder to each cup of flour, but for every egg after 
the first, § tsp. of baking powder is deducted. 

Combine the ingredients for plain cake in the following ways. 
Bake the products at the same temperature : 

a. Cream the butter, add sugar, whole eggs unbeaten, milk, 
sifted dry ingredients. 

6. Cream the butter, add unbeaten egg yolk, sugar, milk, 
sifted dry ingredients, beaten egg white. 

N 



Digitized by 



Google 



178 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND -COOKERY 

c. Egg yolk, sugar, milk, sifted dry ingredients, melted 
butter, beaten egg white. 

d. Cream the butter, add sugar, beaten egg yolk, milk and 
dry ingredients alternately, beaten egg whites. 

166. — Repeat Expt. 164, substituting for butter the following: 

a, J butter, J crisco 

b, \ butter, \ lard 

c, oleomargarine 

d, crisco 

e, cottonseed oil 
/. com oil 

g, chicken fat 

166. — a. Use the rule for plain cake, and prepare three cakes, 
using for shortening, butter, oleo, crisco. 

b. Divide each rule into 5 parts A, B, C, D, E. Bake A 
in a slow oven ; record temperature. Bake B in a moderate oven ; 
record temperature. Bake C in a slow oven, increasing the tempera- 
ture ; record stages and changes in temperature. 

Bake D in a hot oven, reducing the temperature ; record tempera- 
tures and changes at each stage. Bake E in a cold oven, that is, 
light the burners when the cake is placed in the oven. Summarize 
results. 

Record the optimum method of combination of ingredients and 
oven temperature for each fat used in cake baking. 

167. — a. Add chocolate to plain cake recipe. Determine the 
amount necessary. What change in the amount of flour is necessary ? 
Why? 

b. Add nuts to plain cake recipe. Compare with plain 
cake. What change in the recipe is necessary? Why? 

168. — a. Cake without butter: compare the recipe for butter 
cake with that for sponge cake. Note the absence of butter in the 
latter and also the greater number of eggs. Review the experiments 
with eggs and recall the effect of various temperatures in the cooking 
of eggs. Review the oven temperatures given by Miss Van Arsdale 



Digitized by 



Google 



FLOUR MIXTURES 179 

in Some Attempts to Standardize Oven Temperatures, and compare with 
those determined in preceding experiments with butter cake. Se- 
lect the. range in each instance which corresponds to " slow " and 
" moderate." Prepare one rule of sponge cake (use first recipe) and 
bake samples at those temperatures. Compare as to moisture, 
texture, and length of cooking. 

h. Repeat the above experiment, using any sponge cake 
recipe calling for a large nimiber of eggs. In what way do the re- 
sults differ from those in the preceding one ? How do you account 
for these differences ? 

c. Repeat, using the first recipe for white sponge cake or 
angel cake. Compare the results with those in a and h. Account 
for the differences noted. What is a satisfactory range in oven tem- 
peratures for each type of cake? 

d. Having determined the oven temperature in the above 
experiments, prepare three sponge cakes, combining the ingredients 
in the following manner : 

Beat yolks with Dover egg beater. Add the sugar. * 

I Dover egg beater, 
silver fork, 
wire whisk. 
Fold in the whites before the flour. 
Fold in the whites after the flour. 
Stir in the whites after the flour. 

Bake and compare as to texture. Which method seems most 
satisfactory ? 

Note : This experiment can be successfully carried out if arranged so that 
samples of a, 6, and c are baked together at the various tempera- 
tures. Comparison is thus made easy. 

Leavens — Leavening Agents 

A leaven or leavening agent is something which will lighten 
a mixture. Flour niixtures are usually leavened by steam, by 
evolution of carbon dioxide, or by the expansion of inclosed 
and heated air. White of egg or cream may be said to be 
" leavened " when " whipped/' in which case the leavening 



Digitized by 



Google 



l8o LABORATORY MANUM. OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

consists simply in the mechanical incorporation of air bubbles. 
In some bakeries (especially in England) dough is leavened by 
incorporating air under pressure, which when the pressure is 
released will expand even without application of heat. 

When leavening is to be accomplished by means of carbon 
dioxide the latter is usually produced either: 

(i) by yeast fermentation, producing carbon dioxide from 
a portion of the carbohydrate of the mixture; 

(2) by interaction of sodiiun bicarbonate (" cooking soda ") 
with an acid substance (either free acid or acid salt) in the 
presence of moisture. 

Sour milk, buttermilk, vinegar, molasses, and some fruit juices 
contain free acids. 

Many fruit juices contain acid salts. 

Acid salts used as such to liberate carbon dioxide from sodium 
bicarbonate — in other words used as the " acid constituent " 
of baking powders — are chiefly : (a) acid potassium tartrate 
(cream of tartar), (6) acid phosphate, (c) some form of alum or 
aluminum sulphate ; hence the classification of baking powders 
in three main groups — the "tartrate," the "phosphate," and 
the " alum " powders. 

EXPERIMENTS WITH LEAVENS AND LEAVENING 
AGENTS 
Egg, air, steam 

169. — Measure the unbeaten white of an egg in a tablespoon. 
Beat with a Dover egg beater and measure in a tablespoon. Result ? 

170. — Whip an unbeaten egg white with a wire whisk. What 
is the difference in volume? To what is this due? Notice the dif- 
ference in size of air spaces where Dover beater is used as compared 
with wire whisk. 

171. — Perform 169 and 170 each with an egg yolk. 
Why is the increase in volume less noticeable ? 



Digitized by 



Google 



FLOUR MIXTURES l8l 

What is the marked difference in the composition of the egg yolk 
as compared with the egg white? 

172. — a. Use the imbeaten egg to make popovers. 

b. Use the beaten egg to make sponge cake. 

c. Use the whipped egg to make Foamy Omelet. Compare 
texture of each product. Explain. 

d. Which egg white at time of using contains most water? 

Sodium bicarbonate 

173. — Have ready for this and the succeeding experiments, the 
f oUowing : 

baking soda molasses 

cream of tartar chocolate 

lemon juice coffee 

vinegar hot water 

sour milk tomato 
limewater 

Test with litmus and record reaction of each. 

174. — Carbon dioxide precipitates the lime in a solution of lime 
and water. This can be shown by breathing through a tube, one end 
of which is immersed in a beaker of limewater. The white, chalky 
deposit which soon appears on the bottom of the beaker is carbonate 
of lime from the lime of solution and the carbon dioxide of the breath. 

176. — Arrange g test tubes with perforated corks or rubber stop- 
pers fitted with a bent tube to conduct gas from test tube into beaker 
of limewater. 

In each dry test tube put J tsp. dry baking soda. Arrange per- 
forated corks or stoppers with bent tube and have ready to adjust 
at once and conduct the gas given off into limewater (equal volume 
in each beaker). 

When all is ready, put i tbsp. of an acid or hot water respectively 
into a test tube imtil all have been used. Several phenomena will 
be observed. 

Note the evolution of gas, rapidity with which given off, compara- 
tive amoimt of carbonate of lime deposited. Conclude the corre- 
sponding amoimt of carbon dioxide given off. 

Tabulate and compare the results. 



Digitized by 



Google 



l82 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

176. — If the faciKties of the chemical laboratory are available, 
make the experiment with cream of tartar quantitatively, using pure 
substances. 

177. — In the experiment with cream of tartar, it will be neces- 
sary to add water before the action will take place. 

What does this explain in regard to baking powder? 
Why is com starch or flour used in the manufacture of baking 
powder ? 

178. — Test J tsp. of baking powder with i tbsp. hot water. As- 
suming that the baking powder is a mixture of sodiimi bicarbonate and 
an acid salt, can you determine the nature of the latter by chemical 
analj^is? 

179. Prepare baking powder according to the foUowing proportion : 

i lb. cream tartar 
i lb. baking soda 
i lb. corn starch 
Sift six times 

Yeasts 

180. — Fermentation of molasses. Into a common test tube or 
any glass vial, place a solution made by mixing one spoonful of 
molasses with ten spoonfuls of water. Rub up a little compressed 
yeast in water and put a few drops into the tube of molasses water. 
Set aside in a warm place and let it stand for about 24 hours. At 
the end of this time a vigorous fermentation will be seen. The liquid 
will have become somewhat cloudy, numerous bubbles can be seen 
rising through it, a froth forms on top, and a mass of sediment soon 
collects at the bottom. The bubbles are the carbon dioxide which 
is escaping into the air ; the sediment at the bottom is the growing 
mass of yeast, and the alcohol, which looks like water, is dissolved 
in the liquid and is, of course, invisible. 

181. — Proof of the nature of the gas. Prepare two tubes. 
In tube A place molasses and water inoculated with several drops 
of yeast, as in the last experiment. Put the cork in place and insert 
the other end of the tube into a second tube underneath the surface 
of some clear limewater. Set aside in a warm place until vigorous 



Digitized by 



Google 



FLOUR MIXTURES 183 

fennentation occurs. Note the bubbles of gas that arise from the fer- 
menting tube and bubble up through the limewater. The limewater 
soon becomes turbid, showing that the gas contains carbon dioxide. 

182. — Rub a bit of yeast cake in a little water so as to make a 
slightly cloudy solution. Place a drop of the solution upon a micro- 
scope slide, cover with a cover glass, and examine first with a f-inch 
objective. Note that the water seems to be filled with very minute 
dots. Study with a higher power (J in. objective). Examine the 
yeast cells j noting the shape and comparative size. 

183. — Growing yeast. With a glass rod, remove a drop of the 
sediment from growing yeast prepared as in Expt. 180. Place the 
drop on a slide, cover with a cover glass, and study as in the previous 
case. Remove some of the yeast foimd floating on the surface and 
study in the same way. Note that the yeast cells are in groups. 
Make a sketch of several groups, showing buds of various sizes. Note 
any other differences you can see between this growing yeast and the 
compressed yeast cake. 

184. — Effect of boiling. Prepare two test tubes of molasses and 
water and inoculate each with a drop of yeast. Plug with cotton. 
Place one test tube in water and boil for ten minutes, and then leave 
both test tubes side by side in a warm place for two days, and deter- 
mine whether the boiling has been sufficient to kill the yeast. 

186. — Wild yeast. Prepare several test tubes of molasses and 
water as described and without plugging with cotton leave exposed 
in various places for two or three days. Determine by the appear- 
ance of bubbles whether fermentation occurs. If any change takes 
place in the liquids, examine with a microscope to determine whether 
yeasts have found entrance from the air or whether some other micro- 
organisms are growing in the solutions. Conunonly, bacteria will be 
found more abimdant than yeasts. 

186. — Effect of age on yeast. Obtain an old sample of dried 
yeast cake. Prepare two tubes of molasses and water and inocu- 
late one with a small quantity of the old yeast cake and two others 
with a similar quantity of a fresh cake. Set aside in a warm place 
and determine in which fermentation starts sooner, and in which it 



Digitized by 



Google 



l84 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

is the more vigorous. Examine with a microscope after fermenta- 
tion begins, to see if either contains other organisms besides yeast. 

187. — Action of yeast on bread. Mix up a little flour and water 
to about the consistency of dough for bread making and divide into 
three lots, A, B, and C. Into A and B place a little compressed 
yeast. A and B are then to be placed in a warm place for five or six 
hours, while C, without the yeast, is to be baked at once. After A 
and B have risen under the influence of the yeast, bake B at once in 
the oven, while A is to be thoroughly kneaded and then baked. 
Compare the residts of A, B, and C, noticing the difference in the 
textures of the bread. 

188. — Over raising. Mix another lot of dough with yeast in the 
same way and allow it to rise in a warm place for twelve hours or 
more. Test with litmus paper to see if it is acid. Bake and taste to 
see if it has become sour. 

189. — Repeat Expt. 187, comparing cold milk, scalded milk, 
and water as the liquid to be used in the dough. Note which 
dough sours first. 

190. — Bread raised by wild yeast. Put a small amoimt of salt 
in a little milk and then allow it to stand in a warm place imtil a 
froth appears. Mix it with flour to make a dough and set aside to 
rise. Does the dough rise as rapidly and as satisfactorily as when 
yeast is used? Does the baked dough have the same taste? 

191. — Kumiss. Into a quart of milk, put two tbsp. of granu- 
lated sugar and add about ^^ of a compressed yeast cake. Put in a 
warm place and leave for 24 hours. Cool and taste. This will be 
kiuniss or fermented milk. Is it sour? 

192. — Prepare equal weights of the following sugars : 

a. sucrose d, glucose 

b. maltose e. levulose 

c. lactose 

Dissolve each in small equal quantities of distilled water. (These 
solutions are for the next experiment.) Note any changes in appear- 
ance which may occur, and the rapidity with which each sugar 



Digitized by 



Google 



FLOUR MIXTURES 185 

dissolves. Using a small measured fraction of each solution can you 
detect any difference in sweetness? 

193. — a. Prepare small, equal weights of compressed yeast cake 
and mix one portion with each sugar solution. Txim the mixture 
into fermentation tubes and allow them to stand in a imiformly warm 
place. 

ft. Note in which tube fermentation begins and the rapidity 
with which it proceeds. 

c. Compare the volimie of gas collected during a imit 
length of time. 

d. What do you conclude as to the relative fermentative 
qualities of the sugars used ? 

e. Of what significance is this? 

Flour Mixtures (Common designations) 

Biscuits Doughnuts 

Muffins Waffles 

Bread Griddlecakes 

Rolls Timbales 

Cookies Fillings and frostings 

Cakes Pastry 
Fillings for pie 

Classification of Flour Mixtures 

Batters — beaten. 

Doughs — mixed with knife or kneaded and rolled out. 

Proportion of Liquid to Flour 

Thin Batters Thick Batters 



I -I 


1-2 


Griddlecakes 


Cake 


Waffles 


Suet puddings 


Fritters 


Emergency biscuit 


Popovers 


Muffins 




Dropped cookies 




Digitized by 



Google 



l86 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 
Soft Dough Stiff Dough 



1-3 


1-4 


Biscuit 


Pastry 


CruUers 


RoUed cookies 


Bread 




Rolls 




Flour Mixtures 


Essential Ingredients : 


Non-essential Ingredients .' 


Flour 


Eggs 


Liquid 


Sweetening 


Leavening agent 


Shortening 


Salt 


Flavoring 



Function of: 

Flour : to give substance or body. 
Liquid : to hold dry ingredients together. 

Milk Eggs 

Water Coffee 

Molasses Cocoa 

Wine Brandy 

Leavening agent : to produce a gas which separates the particles, and 
expands by the heat applied in baking, thus raising the mixture. 

Leavening Agents 

Baking powder 

Yeast 

Baking soda and an acid 

Salt : to increase palatability. 
Shortening: to make brittle by enriching. 

Butter Suet 

Oleomargarine Drippings 

Lard Chicken fat 

Crisco Refined oils 



Digitized by 



Google 



FLOUR MIXTURES 187. 

Sweetening: 

Sugar Molasses 

Brown sugar Karo 

Glucose 
Eggs : to moisten 
to thicken 
to leaven 
to flavor 
Flavoring : to increase palatability. 

Spices Fruit juices 

Extracts Fruit rinds 

Oven Temperature 

Biscuit,"hot" 1 ^F.,1 ^C. 

Bread, " hot " ^ F., ^ C. 

, r with butter " moderate " . . . ** F., ** C. 

^ ^ 1 without butter "cool "..... . ^ F., ^ C. 

Cookies, " moderate " "* F., ** C. 

Muj0&ns, " moderate " . . . ** F., ** C. 

Pastry, "hot" . ^ F., ° C. 

Popovers, " very hot to moderate " . . . . ° F., ** C. 

Rolls, " hot to moderate " ° F., ** C. 

References 

Flour and Bread 

Atwater, H. W. Bread and Bread Making. United States De- 
partment of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 389 (1910). 

Bevier. Some Points in the Making and Judging of Bread. Uni- 
versity of Illinois, Bulletin, vol. 10 (March 17, 19 13). 

Bread Lesson. Demonstration. Iowa State College, Agricultural 
Department, Short Course Class Notes, No. i. 

Bulletin on Idaho Bread Contest Clubs. Idaho State Department 
of Public Instruction. 

Calvin. Essentials of Bread Making. Oregon Agricultural College, 
Domestic Science and Art Project, Circular, No. 6. 

1 Supply temperatures found by experiment (see pages 174-179). 



Digitized by 



Google 



.l88 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Grant. The Chemistry of Bread Making. 

Harcourt and Purdy. Flour and Bread Making. Ontario Agri- 
cultural CoUege, Department of Agriculture, Bulletin i8o (1910). 

Hunt. The Cereals in America. 

Jago. The Technology of Bread Making. 

KoHMAN. Salt-raising Bread and Some Comparisons with Bread 
made with Yeast. Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chem- 
istry, vol. 4, pages 20-30, 100-106 (191 2). 

Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

Leclerc and Jacobs. Graham Flour. United States Department 
of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 164 (1913). 

Newanetal. Some Experiments on the Relative Digestibility of 
White and Whole Meal Breads. Journal of Hygiene, vol. 12, 
pages 119-143 (1912). 

Osborne. The Proteins of the Wheat Kernel. 

Shaw and Gaumnitz. California White Wheats. Berkeley, Cali- 
fornia, Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 212 (1911). 

Simmons. Book of Bread. 

Snyder. Studies in Bread and Breadmaking. Bulletins 67, loi, 
126 of the Office of Experiment Stations, United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture. 

Snyder and Woods. Wheat Flour and Bread. United States 
Department of Agriculture, Yearbook for 1903, pages 347-362. 

Van Arsdale. Some Attempts to Standardize Oven Temperatures 
for Cooking Processes. Teachers College Bulletin, Technical 
Series No. 8 (1914). 

Wardall. Relation of Yeast to Flavor in Bread. Journal of Home 
Economics, vol. 2, pages 75-91 (1910). 

Wiley. Cereals and Cereal Products. Part 9 of Bulletin 13 of the 
Bureau of Chemistry, United States Department of Agriculture. 

Woods and Merrill. The Digestibility and Nutritive Value of 
Bread. Bulletins 85 and 143 of the Office of Experiment Sta- 
tions, United States Department of Agriculture. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER Xm 

BATTERS AND DOUGHS 

Select one of the following recipes for bread. Weigh each ingredient 
accurately (to the nearest gram). Weigh the finished product and 
calculate its food value and the weight and nutrients of the loo-calorie 
portion. Compare value and cost with those of cooked foods shown 
on pages 205 and 229. 

White Bread 

Quick Process 
Ingredients: 

3 c. flour I tsp. salt 

I c. milk or water i tbsp. butter 

I tsp. sugar I yeast cake 

Method: 

Scald the milk or boil the water, ^dd to the salt, sugar, and butter 
and stir until dissolved. Cool imtil lukewarm, add yeast softened 
in J c. lukewarm water. Add one half the flour, beat imtil smooth. 
Cover and set in pan of warm water imtil doubled in bulk. Add 
the remainder of the flour and mix well. Put on a lightly floured 
board and knead until smooth and elastic. Mold into a loaf, place 
in a well-greased pan, cover, and let double its bulk. Bake in a hot 
oven 40-60 minutes. 

Slow Process 

As for quick process bread with these exceptions : 
Use only J yeast cake. Add all the flour and knead once before 
setting to rise. Let rise overnight at room temperature instead of 
in a pan of warm water. In the morning knead, mold into loaves, and 
proceed as above. 

189 



Digitized by 



Google 



igo LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients: 

\ c. scalded milk 
J c. water 
I tsp. salt 

1 tbsp. butter 

2 tbsp. molasses 
f yeast cake 



Graham Bread 



\ c. lukewarm water 

§ c. white flour 

graham or entire wheat flour 
" to knead. " The mixture 
shoidd be easily handled 
but not hard and dry 



Nut Bread 
I c. chopped walnuts added after the first rising 



Ingredients: 

J c. scalded milk 
J c. water 
I tsp. salt 



Gluten Bread 



I tbsp. butter 

§ yeast cake 

i c. lukewarm water 



gluten flour " to knead " 



Breads without Yeast 

Boston Brown Bread — Steamed 
Ingredients: 

I c. rye meal i tsp. soda 

I c. corn meal i tsp. salt 

I c. graham flour f c. molasses 

2 c. sour milk or if c. sweet milk 
Method : 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Combine molasses and milk and 
add to first mixture. Fill greased molds f full of the mixture. Steam 
3-4 hours. 

Brown Bread I — Baked 



Ingredients: 

i c. molasses 

2 c. sour milk 

3 eggs 

2 tbsp. melted butter 



si c. graham flour 
I J tsp. baking powder 
2 tsp. baking soda 
i tsp. salt 



Digitized by 



Google 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 191 

Method: 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add slightly beaten eggs to the 
liquid ingredients and combine mixtures. Bake in a slow oven ij 
hours. The batter should be a Httle thicker than for butter cakes. 



Brown Bread n 
Ingredients: 

i c. sugar I tsp. salt 

i c. molasses 2 c. graham flour 

2 c. sour milk i J c. white flour 

2 tsp. soda I c. nut meats 

i c. raisins 

Method: 

Let stand i hour in bread pan. Bake in a moderate oven 40-50 

minutes. 

Graham Bread 
Ingredients: 

2 c. buttermilk 2 c. white flour 

1 c. molasses i^ tsp. soda 

2 c. graham flour i tsp. salt 

Method: 

Let stand in bread pan 40 minutes. Bake in a moderate oven 45 
minutes. 

Nut Bread I 

Ingredients: 

2 eggs 4 c. whijte flour 

i c. sugar 7 J tsp. baking powder 

2 c. milk I tsp. salt 

I c. chopped walnut meats 
Method: 

Follow general directions for flour mixtures. Allow mixture 
to stand in the pan 20 minutes. Bake in a moderate oven 40-50 
minutes. 



Digitized by 



Google 



192 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Nut Bresid n 

Ingredients: 

\ c. molasses 2 c. whole wheat flour 

J c. chopped walnuts i c. white flour 

ij c. sour milk i J tsp. soda 

ij tsp. salt 
Method: 

Follow general directions for flour mixtures. Bake in bread pan 
in a moderate oven 40-45 minutes. 

Nut Bread m 

Ingredtents: 

I c. molasses i tsp. salt 

i^ c. water 2 tsp. baking powder 

4 c. graham flour \ tsp. soda 

1 c. white flour 2 c. chopped walnuts 

Method: 

Follow directions for flour mixtures. Bake in bread pans in a 
moderate oven 35-40 minutes. 

Rolls 

Parker House Rolls 

Ingredients : 

2 c. scalded milk i tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. butter i yeast cake dissolved in 

2 tbsp. sugar ^ c. lukewarm water 

flour 
Method : 

Add butter, sugar, and salt to milk ; when lukewarm, add softened 
yeast cake and three cups of flour. Beat, coyer, and let rise until 
light ; cut down, and add enough flour to knead (it will take about 
two and one half cups). Let rise again, toss on slightly floured 
board, knead, pat, and roll out to one third inch thickness. Shape 
with a biscuit cutter, first dipped in flour. 

Dip the handle of a case knife in flour, and with it make a crease 
through the middle of each piece ) brush over one half of each piece 



Digitized by 



Google 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 193 

with melted butter, fold and press edges together. Place m greased 
pan, one inch apart, cover, let rise, and bake in hot oven 12 to 15 
minutes. As rolls rise they will part slightly and if hastened in 
rising are apt to lose their shape. 

Note : Parker House Rolls may be shaped by cutting or tearing oflf small 
pieces of dough and shaping round like a biscuit ; place in rows 
on floured board, cover and let rise 15 minutes. With the 
handle of large wooden spoon roll through center of each biscuit, 
brush edge of lower halves with melted butter, fold, press lightly, 
place in buttered pan one inch apart, cover, let rise and bake. 

Swedish Rolls 

Method : 

Prepare dough as for Parker House Rolls. When light, roU to 
i inch thickness. Spread with melted butter, sprinkle with sugar, 
cinnamon, and currants, and roll as closely as possible. Cut into 
slices I inch thick, allow to become very Hght, glaze, and bake about 
20 minutes. 

Dorcas Rolls 

Ingredients : 

4 small potatoes 2 tbsp. sugar 

2 c. scalded milk 2 tsp. salt 

2 tsp. butter f yeast cake 

i c. lukewarm water 
Method: 

Add hot riced potatoes to the milk, butter, salt, and sugar, softened 
yeast, and flour to make a soft batter. Let rise and add flour enough 
to make a dough. Knead and allow to double in bulk, knead again 
and shape in balls. Place on a greased sheet; let rise and bake 
15-20 minutes in a hot oven. 

Bread Sticks 

Ingredients : 

I c. milk I yeast cake softened in 

} c. butter J c. lukewarm water 

I J tbsp. sugar white of an egg 

i tsp. salt 3f c. flour 



o 



Digitized by 



Google 



194 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Prepare as bread and add the beaten egg after the yeast. When 
ready to shape, cut off small pieces of dough. Shape as small bis- 
cuits and roU on an unfloured board with the hands until 8 inches in 
length, keeping uniform in size and having the ends roimded. Bring 
the fingers close to, but not over, the ends of the sticks. Let rise and 
bake in a hot oven 8-10 minutes. 



Hot Cross Buns 

Ingredients: 

1 c. milk f tsp. cinnamon 
i c. sugar 3 c. flour 

2 tbsp. butter i egg 

i tsp. salt i c. raisins 

i yeast cake softened in J c. currants 

i c. lukewarm water 

Method: 

Dissolve sugar, salt, and butter in the scalded milk ; when luke- 
warm, add dissolved yeast cake, cinnamon, flour and egg well beaten ; 
when thoroughly mixed, add raisins, cover, and let rise overnight. 
In the morning shape in form of large biscuits, let rise, brush with 
beaten egg and bake 20 minutes ; .cool, and make a cross on top of 
each with confectioners* frosting. * 



In^iredients: 



Luncheon Rolls 



I c. milk I tsp. salt 

i c. sugar § yeast cake 

I egg i c. lukewarm water 

J c. melted butter i J c. flour 

Method: 

Prepare dough as for Parker House Rolls, adding the beaten egg 
before the flour. Shape in baUs or oblongs, let rise and bake. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS IQS 

Glaze for R«lls 
Glaze I Glaze II 

1 tsp. sugar yolk i egg 

2 tbsp. hot milk 2 tbsp. cold milk 

Apply before baking. Apply when half baked. 

Score Card 
Bread 

REVISED SCORE CARD OF MISS BEVIER^ 

General appearance 20 

Size (5) 

Shape (s) 

Crust (10) 

Color 

Character 

Depth 

Flavor 35 

Odor 
Taste 

Lightness 15 

Texture , . . . . 20 

Coarse — fine 
Tou^ — tender 
Moist — dry 
Elastic or not 

Color S 

Grain — Distribution of gas S 

ICG 
* UniversUy of Illinois Bulletin, vol. 10, No. 25. (March, igiaO 



Digitized by 



Google 



196 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

SqoRE Card 

Raised Biscuits 

General appearance 20 

Size (s) 

Shape (s) 

Crust (10) 

Color 
Character 
Depth 

Flavor 35 

Taste 
Odor 

Lightness 15 

Crumb 30 

Texture (20) 

Color (s) 

Grain (5) 

100 
Baking Powder Biscuits 
General Rules. 

Sift flour before measuring. Sift again with the baking powder 
and salt. 

Cut in the fat with two knives. Butter, lard, crisco, drippings, or 
chicken fat may be used. Half butter and half lard is a good com- 
bination. 

Add the liquid quickly. Toss and roll lightly on a floured board 
to J inch in thickness. Cut, moisten tops with milk, and bake 12-15 
minutes in a hot oven. 

Wheat Biscuits Graham or Entire Wheat Biscuits 

Ingredients : Ingredients : 

2 c. flour I c. graham flour 

4 tsp. baking powder i c. flour 

i tsp. salt 5 tsp. baking powder 

2 tbsp. fat I tsp. salt 

f c. milk 2 tbsp. fat 

f-i c. milk 
2 tbsp. sugar 



Digitized by 



Google 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



197 



Cheese Biscuits Emergency Biscuit 

Ingredients : Ingredients : 

2 c. flour I c. milk 

4 tsp. baking powder 2J c. flour 

§ tsp. salt 4 tsp. baking powder 

I tbsp. fat 4 tbsp. shortening 

f c. milk J tsp. salt 

i c. grated cheese Mix as for baking powder bis- 

cuits but drop by spoonfuls on a 
greased pan. 

Com Meal Biscuit Fruit Biscuit 

Same ingredients as Wheat Bis- Shape as Swedish Rolls. Be- 
cuit, substituting corn meal for fore rolling spread with 
§ the flour. After cutting, turn J c. raisins 

over as for Parker House Rolls. | tsp. cinnamon 

2 tbsp. sugar 
Bran Biscuit 
Ingredients: 

I c. bran i egg 

I c. entire wheat flour i c. milk 

J c. molasses f tsp. baking soda 
i tsp. salt 

Score Card 

Baking Powder Biscuits 
General appearance 20 

Size (5) 

Shape (5) 

Crust (10) 

Flavor 40 

Lightness 10 

Texture 20 

Coarse — fine 

Tough — tender 

Moist — dry 

Color 5 

Grain » S 

100 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



198 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



FOOD VALUES 
Baking Powder Biscuit 



Material 



^O 



£0 



Flour . . . 
Salt ... 
Baking powder 
Butter . . . 
Milk . . . 

Total, cooked I 

IOC-Calorie 
Portion . . 



itsp. 

3tsp. 

litbsp. 

I c. 



222.4 



19 
202.8 



24.9 



.19 
6.68 



i6.S7 
8.12 



166.S 



9.79 



786 



ISO 
140 



.018 

.006 
■01 S 



OSS 



.005 
.324 



393 

1 
,006 
,427 



.0031 



,0004 



1 2 bis- 
cuits 
I bis- 
cuit 



313 
29.08 



31.78 
2.9 



26.89 
2.49 



176.31 
IS 



1076 



.06 



oos 



.384 



.034 



.826 



.074 



0035 



.0003 



Griddlecakes and Waffles 
(For General Method see below) 



Griddlecakes 
Sweet Milk 

Ingredients: 

1 c. flour 

2 tsp. baking powder 
i tsp. salt 

I tbsp. melted butter 

1 egg 

f c. milk 

Sour Milk 

Ingredients : 

2J c. flour 
i tsp. salt 

2 c. sour milk 
li tsp. soda 



Waffles 
Sweet Milk 

Ingredients : 
if c. flour 

3 tsp. baking powder 
i tsp. salt 

1 tbsp. melted butter 

2 eggs 

I c. milk 

Sour Milk 
Ingredients : 
ij c. flour 
i tsp. soda 
i tsp. salt 

1 c. sour milk 

2 eggs 



2 tbsp. melted butter 

^ If a phosphate baking powder be used, the phosphorus content of the product 
will of course be much higher than is here shown. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 199 

Com Meal Com Meal 

Ingredients : Ingredients : 

I c. com meal i c. com meal 

I c. flour ij c. boiling water 

4 tsp. baking powder i tsp. salt 

1 tsp. salt li c. milk 

4 tbsp. sugar 2 tbsp. sugar 

2 eggs 2 tbsp. melted butter 
I qt. scalded milk 2 c. flour 

Cook meal and milk 5 minutes 3 tsp. baking powder 

in a double boiler. 2 



Cook meal and water 20 
minutes in a double boiler. 

General Method 
General Rules for Mixing. 

Sift flour, and sift with salt, sugar, and baking powder. Separate 
eggs, beat yolks thoroughly, and add to the milk. Add the liquids to 
the dry ingredients. Add the melted butter and fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites of eggs. 

General Rides for Frying, 

Grease irons carefully with lard, crisco, or salt pork. Fry mix- 
ture as soon as mixed. Serve immediately with butter and sirup or 
butter and powdered sugar. 

Griddlecakes, 

Drop mixtmre by spoonfuls on a hot griddle. When puffed, full 
of bubbles and cooked on edges, turn and brown the other side. 

Waffles, 

Put a tbsp. of mixture in each compartment near center of iron, 
cover, and mixture will spread to fill iron. Turn and brown other side. 

Swedish Timbale Cases 

Ingredients : 

f c. flour i c. milk 

\ tsp. salt I egg 

\ tsp. olive oil 



Digitized by 



Google 



200 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Sift flour and salt. Add slightly beaten egg and the milk. Beat 
until smooth. Add the olive oil. 

To make Timbale Cases 

Plain and fluted irons of various shapes mounted on a long handle 
are used for shaping Swedish Timbale Cases. 

To use : dip the iron into the hot fat, let stand two or three minutes, 
then drain and dip into the batter — held in measuring cup — to 
half an inch of the top of iron, return at once to the fat and hold 
there imtil the batter is crisp and lightly colored, then remove from 
the iron and turn upside down on soft paper to drain. If, on dipping 
the iron into the batter, the batter does not cling to it, the iron has 
not been heated enough. If the fat sizzles considerably and the 
case spreads out and drops from the iron, the mold is too hot. If the 
iron is lowered too far into the batter, the case will spread over the 
top of the iron and be troublesome to remove. The finished cases 
should be very crisp. A small, deep pan of fat gives best results. 

Fritters 



Ingredients : 

I c. flour 


rind i lemon 


2 tbsp. sugar 


2 eggs 


J tsp. salt 


ic. milk 


Method: 




Same as Muffins (page 202). 




Apple Fritters 





Method : 

Pare apples and cut in eighths, or pare, core, and cut in J-inch slices. 
Sprinkle with sugar, lemon juice, cinnamon, or nutmeg. Dip in 
batter and fry in deep fat. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve 
at once. 

Banana Fritters 

Method: 

Remove skins from bananas. Scrape. Cut in halves lengthwise 
and then cut in 2 pieces crosswise or in i-inch pieces. Sprinkle 



Digitized by 



Google 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 20I 

with powdered sugar and lemon juice and let stand half an hour. 
Drain. Dip in batter and fry in deep fat. Sprinkle with powdered 
sugar or serve with Grape or Currant Jelly. 

Pineapple Fritters 
Method: 

Drain sirup from canned pineapple. Cut in pieces ; dip in batter 
and fry in deep fat. 

Doughnuts I 

Ingredtents: 

2 tsp. butter i c. flour 

i c. sugar i tsp. salt 

1 egg f tsp. baking powder 

2 tbsp. milk \ tsp. cinnamon 

Doughnuts n 

3 eggs 5 c. floiu: ' 

I c. sugar 2 tsp. cream of tartar 

I c. milk I tsp. soda 

i tsp. nutmeg or mace i tsp. salt 

Method: 

Same as for cookies. The dough should be as soft as can be handled. 
Roll to i inch in thickness, cut in rings and fry in hot fat until golden 
brown. Turn often in the fat. Drain, cool, and sugar by shaking in 
a paper bag which contains a small amount of powdered sugar. 

Comforts 

Ingredtents: 

1 c. milk I c. sugar 

2 eggs 2| c. flour 

I c. raisins 3 tsp. baking powder 

I tsp. salt 
Method: 

Same as doughnuts. The mixture is a batter. Drop from spoon 
into hot fat ; fry a light brown. Drain and sugar. 



Digitized by 



Google 



202 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Muffins 
General Rules: 

Sift flour before measuring. Sift again with baking powder, salt, 
and sugar. Beat eggs slightly, add the milk and pour this mixture 
gradually into the dry ingredients. Add the melted butter. Bake 
in greased muffin tin in a moderate oven 20-25 minutes. 



One-egg Muffins 

Ingredients: 

2 c. flour 2 tbsp. sugar 

4 tsp. baking powder i c. milk 

J tsp. salt 2 tbsp. melted butter 
legg 



Wheat Muffins 
Ingredients: 

2 c. flour I c. milk 

2 tsp. baking powder 2 tbsp. melted butter 

\ tsp. salt 2 ( 



Entire Wheat or Graham Muffins 
Ingredients: 

I c. graham flour i tbsp. sugar 

I c. flom: I egg 

3 tsp. baking powder i c. milk 

I tsp. salt 2 tbsp. melted butter 



Com Meal Muffins 
Ingredients: 

I c. flom: i tsp. salt 

1 c. com meal i egg 

2 tbsp. sugar i c. milk 

4 tsp. baking powder 2 tbsp. melted butter 



Digitized by 



Google 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 203 

Berkshire Muffins 
IngredietUs: 

J c. com meal 1 Let stand 2 tbsp. sugar 

} c. scalded milk J 5 minutes i tsp. salt 

J c. cooked rice i egg 

i c. flour 3 tsp. baking powder 2 tbsp. melted butter 

Bran Muffins 

Ingredtents : 

2 c. bran i tsp. soda 3 tbsp. molasses 

I c. flour J c. butter ij c. sour milk 

Method: 
Rub butter into the dry ingredients. Add the liquids. Bake in 

a hot oven. 

Bran Muffins with Com 

Ingredients: 

I c. com meal i egg 

I c. white flour li c. milk 

1 c. bran 2 tbsp. molasses 

2 tbsp. melted butter i tsp. salt 



i) tsp. soda 

3 tsp. cream tartar J 

Rice Muffins 



> or 2} tsp. baking powder 



Ingredients: 

3 c. flour ij c. milk 

1 c. cooked rice i egg 

2 tbsp. baking powder 3 tbsp. melted butter 

3 tbsp. sugar } tsp. salt 
Combine the rice and milk. 

,. ^ Hominy Sticks 

Ingredtents : 

I c. com meal i c. hot cooked hominy or rice 

f c. flour i c. melted butter 

3 tsp. baking powder i c. milk 

i tsp. salt I egg 

Method : 
Bake in Bread Stick pans. 



Digitized by 



Google 



204 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 
Blueberry Muffins 



Ingredients: 








\ c. butter 






2 c. flour 


J c. sugar 






I tsp. baking powder 


I egg 






I c. blueberries 




fc. 


milk 




Method: 








Fold in the blueberries last. 








Southern Pone 


Ingredients : 








I c. com meal 






2 eggs 


2 c. milk 






3 tbsp. butter 


I tsp. salt 






I tsp. baking powder 



Method: 

Scald milk and add gradually the meal, salt, and butter. Cool 
slightly and add eggs, well beaten, and the baking powder. Turn 
into a buttered, earthen dish and bake in a moderate oven 35 min- 
utes. Cut in pie-shaped pieces for serving. 

Southern Spoon Com Bread 
Ingredients : 

2 c. white com meal yolks 2 eggs 

2I c. boiling water whites 2 eggs 

ij tbsp. melted butter i^ c. buttermilk 

li tsp. salt I tsp. baking soda 

Method: 

Add meal gradually to the boiling water and let cool. Add butter, 
salt, egg yolks slightly beaten, and buttermilk mixed with soda. 
Beat 2 minutes and fold in whites of eggs beaten until stiff. Turn 
into a buttered earthen dish and bake in hot oven 40 minutes. Serve 
at breakfast. Eat with spoon. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



20S 



Score Card 
Mufllns 



General Appearance 

Size (5) 

Shape (lo) 

Crust (lo) 

Color 

Character 

Depth 

Flavor . . . .• . 
Taste 
Odor 

Texture .... 
Lightness (lo) 
Tenderness (lo) 
Grain (lo) 

Color 



25 



35 



30 



lO 
lOO 



FOOD VALUES 
Muffins 



Material 



Flour . . . 
Sugar . . . 
Butter . . . 
Milk . . . 
Baking powder 
Egg. . . . 

Total, cooked 
IOC-Calorie 
Portion . . 



I c. 
I tsp. 

1 tbsp. 
ic 

2 tsp. 
I 






III. 2 

4.8 
14 

122 

7-7 
45-3 



242.2 
35.08 



&^ 



12.45 

.14 
4.02 

6.07 



22.68 
3.37 



11.9 
4.88 

4.75 



22.64 
3.37 



83.28 
4.8 

6.1 



94.18 
14.04 



393 

19 

108 

84 
67 



671 
100 



.0098 

,0007 

,0106 

,0112 

003 

03 



0653 
.009 



Ma. 



JjwO 

£3 



.027 

.003 
.193 

.040 



.196 

.004 

.255 

1 

.161 



.0015 

.0002 
.0012 



.264 
.036 



615 
.086 » 



.0029 
.0004 



1 See footnote, p. 198. 



Digitized by 



Google 



2o6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Popovers 
IngredierUs: 

I c. flour } c. milk 

J t^. salt 1-2 eggs 

J tsp. melted butter (may be omitted) 
Method: 

Mix salt and flour, sift into bowl. Make an indentation in flour 
and drop in the unbeaten egg. Add the milk gradually, stirring in 
widening circles from the middle. If a little lumpy, beat for a minute 
with a Dover egg beater. Turn into imgreased custard cups or hot 
greased gem pans. Bake in a hot oven. Have the oven very hot for 
the first fifteen minutes, then reduce temperature and continue baking 
30 to 35 minutes longer. 



Graham Popovers 
Ingredients: 

J c. entire wheat floiu: } c. milk 

J c. flour I egg 

i tsp. salt i tsp. melted butter 

Prepare and bake as described under Popovers. 



Cream Puffs I 

Ingredtents: 

i c. butter 4 eggs 

I c. boiling water i c. pastry flour 

Method: 

Put butter and water in saucepan and heat to boiling point, add 
flour all at once and beat vigorously. Remove from fire as soon as 
mixed, and add unbeaten eggs one at a time, beating until thoroughly 
mixed between the addition of eggs. Drop by spoonfuls on a buttered 
sheet 1} inches apart, shaping as nearly circular as possible, having 
mixture slightly piled in center. Bake 30 minutes in a moderate 
oven. With a sharp knife make in each an incision large enough to 
admit cream filling. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 207 

Cream Puffs n 
Ingredients: 

i c. butter (scant) J c. flour 

J c. boiling water 2 eggs 

fruit preserve or marmalade 

Put butter in small saucepan and pour on water. When water 
again reaches boiling point add flour all at once and stir until mixture 
leaves sides of saucepan, cleaving to spoon. Remove from fire and 
add eggs imbeaten, one at a time, beating mixture between addition 
of eggs. Drop by spoonfuls into hot fat and fry imtil well puffed 
and brown. Drain. Make an opening and fill with jelly, preserve, 
or marmalade. Sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

Eclairs 

Shape cream puff mixture 4} inches long and i inch wide by forcing 
through a pastry bag and tube. Bake 25 minutes in a moderate 
oven. Fill with vanilla, coffee, or chocolate cream filling. Frost 
with chocolate frosting. 

Cream Filling 

Ingredients: 

i c. sugar 2 c. scalded milk, chocolate, 

J c. flour or coffee 

i tsp. salt I tsp. vanilla or 

2 eggs J tsp. lemon juice 

Method: 
Mix dry ingredients in double boiler and pour the liquid in 

gradually. Cook the mixture 10 minutes. Add the eggs slightly 

beaten and cook 2 minutes. Cool and flavor. 

Flour Pastes 
Macaroni; Spaghetti; Noodles 

Boiled Macaroni or Spaghetti 
Ingredients: 

i c. macaroni or spaghetti broken in pieces 2 qts. boiling water 

I c. cream i tbsp. salt 



Digitized by 



Google 



2o8 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Cook macaroni or spaghetti in boiling salted water 20 minutes, or 
until soft ; drain in strainer, pour over it cold water to prevent pieces 
from adhering ; add cream, reheat, and season with salt. 

Noodles 

Ingredients : 

I egg i tsp. salt 

2 c. flour 
Method: 

Beat egg slightly, add salt, and flour enough to make a very stiff 
dough ; knead on a slightly floured board, and roll as thin as possible, 
which may be as thin as paper. Cover with towel and set aside for 
20 minutes ; then cut in fancy shapes — using sharp knife or French 
vegetable cutter; or the thin sheet may be rolled like a jelly roll, 
cut in thin slices and pieces unrolled. 

When eggs are expensive, one tablespoon of water may be beaten 
with each egg. 

When noodles are perfectly dry, put them into a glass jar or paste- 
board box. They will keep indefinitely. 

Baked Macaroni with Cheese 

Put a layer of boiled macaroni in buttered baking dish, sprinkle 
with grated cheese ; reheat, pour over white sauce, cover with buttered 
crumbs, and bake until crumbs are brown. * 

Macaroni, Italian Style 

Ingredients : 

1 c. macaroni i§ c. scalded milk 

2 tbsp. butter f c. grated cheese 
2 tbsp. flour salt and paprika 

i c. finely chopped cold boiled ham 
Method: 

Break macaroni in one-inch pieces and cook in boiling, salted 
water, drain, and reheat in sauce made of butter, flour, and milk to 
which is added cheese. As soon as cheese is melted, season with salt 



Digitized by 



Google 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



209 



and paprika and turn on to a serving dish. Sprinkle with ham and 
garnish with parsley. 

Macaroni with Cheese and Tomato Sauce 

Ingredients : 

I c. boiled macaroni 2 c. tomato sauce 

i c. grated cheese seasonings 

Method: 

Arrange the macaroni in a buttered baking dish, pour over this the 
tomato sauce and cheese, cover with buttered crumbs and heat in a 
moderate oven until the crumbs are brown. 

Grated cheese may be sprinkled on the top instead of buttered 
crumbs. 

Spaghetti Loaf 

Ingredients : 

I c. scalded cream or milk i c. grated cheese 

I c. bread crumbs i tbsp. onion juice 

I c. cooked spaghetti i tbsp. chopped parsley 

3 eggs I tbsp. green pepper 

I tbsp. red pepper or pimento 
Method: 

Scald cream, add the bread crumbs, cooked spaghetti and cheese, 
and eggs slightly beaten. Chop green and red peppers and add 
to first mixture. Pour into a buttered bread pan, place in hot water, 
and bake in a slow oven imtil firm and slightly browned. Turn on 
a platter and surroimd with tomato sauce. 





C00KTF.S 






CLASSIFICATION 




^ Dropped 


Rolled 


Spread 


Peanut 


Sugar 


Brownies 


Boston 


Chocolate 


Fahy gingerbread 


Oatmeal I 


Molasses 


Rolled wafers 


Oatmeal II 


Orange circles 


Chocolate chips 


Sponge drops 
p 


Hermits 


Digitized by LjOOQU 



2IO LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Margarets (fancy meringue pans) Date meringues 

Chocolate wafers Vanilla wafers 

Dropped: 

Thick hatters. Drop from tsp. on well-greased sheets i inch apart. 
Sponge Cookies may be put together with marshmallows or boiled 
frosting. 

RoUed: 

Stiff doughs. Chill before rolling out. Use fancy cutters. Gar- 
nish with raisins, currants, sugar, spice, candied cherries, angelica, 
orange peel. 

FUled cookies. Two cookies may be put together with fruit and 
nut filling before baking. 

Two colors. A sugar cooky cut in fancy shape may be placed on 
a roimd chocolate cooky before baking. 

Spread: 

Thick hatters. Spread with spatula on well-greased Russian sheets 
or on the back of a dripping pan. Cut in squares or oblongs or cut 
and roll while hot. 

Nid wafers. Sprinkle diopped nuts on mixture before baking. 



General Rules for Mixing Cookies 

Eggs shoidd not be separated; otherwise proceed as for cake. 
Bake one cooky to see if mixture is of proper consistency. 



Dropped Cookies 

Chocolate Wafers 
Ingredients: 

4 tbsp. butter \ c. flour 

8 tbsp. sugar J tsp. salt 

I egg J tsp. vanilla 

I oz. chocolate J c. nuts 



Digitized by 



Google 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



211 



Ingredients: 

4 tbsp. butter 
3 tbsp. lard 

I c. sugar 
I egg 

5 tbsp. milk 

if c. rolled oats 
J c. raisins 



Oatmeal I 



J c. nuts 
ij c. flour 
i tsp. salt 
i tsp. soda 
f tsp. cinnamon 
i tsp. cloves 
i tsp. allspice 



Ingredients: 

I tbsp. butter 
I c. sugar 
} tsp. salt 



Oatmeal II 

2 c. rolled oats 
2 eggs 

I tsp. baking powder. 
I tsp. vanilla 



Ingredients: 

1 c. butter 

i^ c. sugar 

3 eggs 

I tsp. soda 

I J tbsp. cold water 

3§ c. flour 



Boston Cookies 



J tsp. salt 

I tsp. cinnamon 

I c. chopped nuts 

(hickory or English walnuts) 
i c. currants 
§ c. raisins, seeded (or seedless), 

chopped 



Ingredients: 

i c. butter 

i c. powdered sugar 

i c. molasses 



Margarets 



I egg well beaten 

J c. flour 

I c. pecan meats chopped 



Garnish top of each with half a pecan. 



Digitized by 



Google 



212 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Drop Molasses Cookies 

Ingredients : 

I c. molasses i c. sour cream or 

I c. sugar J c. butter 

I egg I tsp. each : 

I tsp. soda ginger 

I tsp. baking powder cinnamon 

1 c. boiling water f tsp. salt 

about 3 c. flour 
Method : 

Follow general directions for flour mixtures. Spread the mixture 
in a well-greased dripping pan and bake in a moderate oven 10-20 
minutes. Cut in squares and remove with spatula to a rack or cloth 
to cool. 

Peanut Cookies 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. butter J c. flour 
i c. sugar I tsp. salt 

I egg 2 tbsp. milk 

I tsp. baking powder i tsp. lemon juice 

J c. chopped nuts 

Meringues 

Ingredients: 

whites 4 eggs li c. powdered sugar or 

J tsp. vanilla i c. granulated sugar 

Beat whites imtil stiff, add gradually the sugar and continue beat- 
ing until mixture will hold shape, and add flavoring. Shape with 
spoon or pastry bag and tube on wet board covered with letter paper 
or on greased paper. !^ake 30 minutes in a very slow oven. Re- 
move from paper when cold. 

Date Meringues 

Ingredients : 

i lb. dates whites 4 eggs 

§ lb. almonds i c. sugar 



Digitized by 



Google 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



213 



Method: 

Wash and stone dates. Blanch ahnonds. Mix with dates and 
chop finely. Beat whites of eggs until stiff. Add sugar gradually 
and continue beating. Fold in date mixture. Drop by spoonfids 
on greased paper. Bake in a " moderate " oven until delicately 
brown (recording the temperature). Remove at once from paper. 



Ingredients: 

whites 3 eggs 

\ c. powdered sugar 

yolks 2 eggs 



Sponge Drops 



\ c. flour 
J tsp. salt 
i tsp. vanilla 



Ingredients: 

3 tbsp. butter 
f c. sugar 
rind i orange 



Rolled Cookies 
Orange Circles 



li c. flour 

salt 

juice I orange 



Ingredients: 

I c. butter 
I c. sugar 
I c. 



Ginger Snaps 



I egg 



4 c. flour 
I tsp. soda 
I tbsp. ginger 



Ingredients: 

\ c. butter 
\ c. boiling water 
f c. molasses 
I tsp. soda 



Molasses 



flour 



I tsp. salt 
I tbsp. ginger 
I tsp. cinnamon 
\ c. sugar 



Digitized by 



Google 



214 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 
Sugar Cookies 



Ingredients: 

i c. butter 
I c. sugar 
I egg 
J c. milk 



2j c. flour 

2 tsp. baking powder 

§ tsp. salt 

i tsp. vanilla 



Vanilla Wafers 
Ingredients: 

J c. butter and lard in equal 

proportions 
I c. sugar 
I egg 
J c. milk 



Ingredients: 

i c. butter 
I c. sugar 
I tbsp. milk 



2 c. flour 

2 tsp. baking powder 

J tsp. salt 

2 tsp. vanilla 



Thin Cookies 



2 tsp. baking powder 

flour 

2 eggs 



Ingredients: 

§ c. butter 
I c. sugar 
I egg 
J c. milk 



Chocolate Cookies 

2j c. flour 

2 tsp. baking powder 
I tsp. salt 
I tsp. vanilla 
2 oz. chocolate 



Ingredients: 

f c. butter 

1 c. brown sugar 

2 eggs 

f tsp. soda 

I tbsp. hot water 



Hermits 



2j c. flour 

i tsp. salt 

I tsp. cinnamon 

i tsp. each clove, mace, nutmeg 

I c. raisins 



Digitized by 



Google 



Ingredients: 

i c. butter 

1 c. sugar 

2 eggs 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 

Spread Cookies 
Chocolate Chips 



215 



4 tbsp. melted chocolate 
I tsp. vanilla 
I c. flour 



Ingredients: 



Chocolate Brownies 



I c. sugar 

J c. melted butter 

1 egg imbeaten 

2 oz. chocolate melted 



f tsp. vanilla 

J c. flour 

§ c. walnut meats cut in pieces 



Method: 

Mix ingredients in order given. Line a seven-inch square with 
parafl&n paper. Spread mixture evenly in pan and bake in a slow 
oven (recording the temperature). As soon as taken from oven 
turn from pan, remove paper, and cut in strips. 



Nut Wafers 



Ingredients: 

i c. butter (chicken fat may be 

used) 
f c. sugar 
I egg 
ij c. flour 



2 tbsp. milk 

i tsp. salt 

I tsp. baking powder 

I tsp. vanilla 

i c. nut meats (chopped) 



Fairy Gingerbread 

Ingredients : 

i c. butter J c. milk 

I c. light brown sugar if c. flour 

2 tsp. ginger 



Digitized by 



Google 



2l6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 







Score 


Cards 








RoUed Cookies 




General appearance . 
Uniformity (5) 
Size (s) 
Shape (lo) 
Color (s) 
Surface (5) 






• • • 30 








Texture 








• • • 20 


Lightness 

Color 

Crispness 


(10) 
(5) 
(5) 








Flavor . 








. ... 50 


Taste 
Odor * 


(25) 

(25) 






ICX> 






Dropped Cookies 




General a1)'bec 


irance . 

(5) 
(10) 
(5) 
(5) 
(5) 






, • • • ^0 


Uniformity 

Shape 

Size 

Color 

Surface 




¥ 


> • • • 0^ 


Texture . 








► . • • 20 


Lightness (5) 
Tenderness (10) 
Color (5) 








Flavor . . 








1 • • • 50 










100 



Digitized by 



Google 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



217 



FOOD VALUES 
Molasses Cookies 



Material 



Molasses 
Butter. 
Flour . 
Soda . 
Salt . 
Ginger 

Totals, r 
cooked \ 

IOC-Calorie 
Portion 



I c. 

ic. 

3C. 
Jtsp. 
2 tsp. 
I tbsp. 



^4 1 

large] 
I large 



go 



326.3 
56.7 

333.6 
2.1 
9.2 
6 



628.4 



23.38 






8.07 

.57 

37.36 



46.46 



1.75 



48.2 
3.34 



51.56 



1.96 



233.05 
249.87 



482.92 
18.45 



965 

436 

II78 



2579 



,042 

,04 

■03 

.ooo4| 
,00061 
.003 



,116 



.004 



1.118 

.013 
.082 



1. 213 



.047 






.965 

.017 

.589 



I.56I 



.062 



.048 
.0047 



.0527 



Hermits 



Butter. 


Jc. 


84.2 
137 


.842 


71.57 




647.5 


.0425 


.019 


.025 




Sugar . 


*c. 






137 


548 


.02 








Egg . 


I 


44.5 


5.96 


4.67 




66 


.036 


.039 


.158 


.0012 


Milk . 


2 tbsp. 


42.8 


1.41 


1.71 


2.14 


30 


.0028 


.069 


•09 


.0001 


Flour . 


lie 


194.6 


21.79 


1.94 


145.75 


688 


.021 


.048 


.344 


.0027 


Raisins 


Jc. 


51.3 


1.33 


1.49 


39.03 


175 


.0117 


.035 


.14 


.0017 


Spices . 




11.3 


















Total, 






















cooked 


52 


479 


38.91 


81.39 


323.92 


2153 


.134 


.210 


.757 


.0057 


loo-Calori 


s small 




















Portion 


3 


22.22 


1.55 


3.77 


15.2 


100 


.0057 


.0105 


.0378 


.0002 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER XIV 

CAKE 

Cakes with Butter 
General Rules for Mixing. 

Measure all ingredients, and grease the pans. Mix and sift dry 
ingredients except sugar. Cream butter by continued rubbing against 
the bowl with a wooden spoon. (Any edible fat may be used in place 
of butter.) Add the sugar gradually and continue creaming until 
mixture is smooth. Beat yolk of egg imtil thick and lemon-colored; 
add to the butter and sugar. Add the flour and milk alternately; 
add vanilla. Beat whites until stiff and dry ; cut and fold into the 
mixture. When fruit or nuts are used, save out a little flour to cover 
them and add to the cake just before the whites of the eggs. Fill 
greased pans half full, with sides well filled and a slight depression in 
the center. 

General Rides for Baking. 

Temperature of oven — moderate. 
Time depends on thickness of cake. 

a. cup cakes, 12-15 minutes 
layer cakes, 20-30 minutes 
loaf cakes, 30-40 minutes 

b, quarters of time 

1. begins to rise 

2. continues rising ; begins to brown 

3. finishes browning 

4. shrinks from pan 

ai8 



Digitized by 



Google 



CAKE 219 

Care after Baking, 

a. loosen edges with knife 

b. invert on cooler 

c. turn right side up after a few minutes 

Standard Cake 

Ingredients : 

J c. butter i c. milk 

1 c. sugar li c. flour 

2 eggs 2§ tsp. baking powder 

I tsp. lemon juice or ^ tsp. vanilla 

Modifications: 

Spice 

I tsp. spice sifted with the flour 

Nut 

1 c. chopped nuts added before folding in the whites 

Chocolate 

2 oz. melted and added after adding the yolks 

Currant 

\ c. added before folding in the whites 

Ribbon 

Double the recipe and bake } as 2 plain layers. To remaining \ 
add I tbsp. molasses, i tsp. spice, and | c. raisins. 

White Cake 

Ingredients: 

J c. butter 2 c. flour 

I c. sugar 4 tsp. baking powder 

whites 4 eggs § c. milk 

J tsp. almond extract 

Spanish Cake 

Ingredients: 

§ c. butter if c. flour 

1 c. sugar 3 tsp. baking powder 
§ c. milk I J tsp. cinnamon 

2 ^gs i tsp. salt 



Digitized by 



Google 



220 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 


Chocolate Cake I 


3 oz. chocolate 


J c. sugar i c. milk 


Boil imtil thickens to a paste and cool. Add to : 


J c. butter 


2 c. flour 


1 c. sugar 

2 eggs 

I tsp. vanilla 


I tsp. baking soda 
i tsp. salt 
4 c. milk 


Ingredients : 


Chocolate Cake II 


2 oz. chocolate 


] 


4 tbsp. butter 
J c. boiling water 


> Boil imtil it thickens to a paste and cool 


Add 




I c. sugar 
I egg 


I c. flour 
f tsp. soda 
i c. sour milk 


Ingredients : 


Lady Baltimore Cake 


I c. butter 


3§ c. flour 


2 c. sugar 
I c. milk 


2 tsp. baking powder 
whites 6 eggs 


Lady Baltimore Cake Filling 


3 c. sugar 


I c. water 



Boil to thread stage and pour on stiffly beaten whites of 3 
When begins to thicken add i c. chopped raisins, pecans, and figs. 



Ingredients: 
I lb. butter 
I lb. sugar 
10 eggs 



Pound Cake 



1 lb. flour 

§ tsp. mace 

2 tbsp. brandy 



Digitized by 



Google 



CAKE 221 

Gold Cake 

Ingredtents : 

8 yolks of eggs 2^ c. flour 

f c. butter i tsp. cream of tartar 

ij c. sugar J tsp. soda 

f c. milk I tbsp. vanilla 

Method: 
Mix soda and flour and sift 3 times. Cream butter and sugar, 

beat yolks imtil very light, add cream of tartar, then add this to the 

butter and sugar. Mix well and add milk, flour, and flavoring. 

This recipe is particularly good for small cakes. 

Date Loaf Cake 

Ingredients : 

I lb. dates (after stoning) i c. flour 

I lb. pecans — shelled 4 eggs 

I c. sugar if tsp. baking powder 

1 tsp. brandy or J tsp. salt 
Method: itsp-vaniUa 

Wash and stone dates. Wash pecans and add to date ptdp. Chop 
slightly. Beat yolks of eggs until foamy and mix with the sugar 
through the date and nut mixture. Add flavoring and the sifted dry 
ingredients and fold in the beaten whites. Bake as a loaf 50 minutes 
in a moderate oven. 

Orange Loaf Cake 

Ingredtents : 

2 c. sugar 4 eggs 

i c. butter 2! c. flour 

§ c. orange juice 3 tsp. baking powder 

grated rind of i orange i tsp. salt 

Method: 

Cream the butter, add the sugar and yolks of the eggs. Add to 
this the grated rind of i orange. Mix and sift the dry ingredients 
and add alternately with the liquid to the first mixture. Line a deep 
pan with parafl5n paper and alloW the cake to bake in moderate oven 
35-40 minutes. 



Digitized by 



Google 



222 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients: 

1 c. butter 

2 c. sugar 

4 eggs 

2 tbsp. molasses 

I c. cold boiled coffee 

3f c. flour 

5 tsp. baking powder 



Coffee Cake 



2 tbsp. brandy 



I tsp. cinnamon 
i tsp. cloves 
i tsp. mace 
i tsp. all^ice 
f c. raisins 
f c. currants 
J c. citron 



Apple Sauce Ca^e 



Ingredients: 
I c. butter 
I c. sugar 
I egg 

I c. molasses 
I c. apple sauce (unsweetened) 



3 c. flour 

I tsp. soda 

i tsp. allspice, cinnamon, 

and clove 
i grated nutmeg 



i c. raisins and currants 



Ingredients : 
I lb. butter 
I lb. brown sugar 
I lb. flour 
3 lb. raisins 
3 lb. currants 
I lb. mixed fruit peel 



Fruit Cake 



juice of 2 lemons 



12 eggs 

1 lb. almonds 

2 tsp. nutmeg 
2 tsp. cloves 

2 tsp. cinnamon 

3 tbsp. vanilla 



Ingredients : 

I c molasses 
§ c. sugar 

1 c. shortening 

2 tsp. soda 

Method: 



Molasses Layer Cake 



I tsp. cloves 



1 c. hot water 

2 eggs 

2j c. flour 

I tsp. cinnamon 



Follow directions for flour mixtures and bake as a layer cake. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CAKE 



223 



Filling for Molasses Cake 

Ingredients: 

1 c. milk i c. sugar 

J cake chocolate i tbsp. cornstarch 

J tsp. vanilla 
Method: 

Melt the chocolate in a double boiler. Mix the sugar and corn- 
starch and add gradually to the melted chocolate alternately with the 
milk. Stir the mixture with a wooden spoon constantly in order to 
prevent lumps and to make a smooth paste. Allow the whole to 
cook in a double boiler 15 minutes. Add flavoring, and when custard 
has cooled slightly, use as a filling for the molasses cake. 

Note : Whipped cream may be used as the upper covering. This cake is 
best used as a dessert. 

Canned Raspberry Cake 

Ingredients : 

2 eggs I nutmeg 

I c. brown sugar i tbsp. cinnamon 

J c. butter i tbsp. sour milk 

I c. canned strawberries or rasp- i tsp. soda 

berries i c. flour 



Ingredients : 

I c. molasses 



Hot Water Ginger Cake 



J c. boiling water 
2i c. flour 



I tsp. soda 
ij tsp. ginger 
i tsp. salt 
4 tbsp. melted butter 



Ingredients : 

i c. butter 
I c. sugar 
J c. molasses 
I egg 



Sweet or Sour Milk Ginger Cake 



if c. flour 
I tsp. ginger 
I tsp. cinnamon 
J tsp. soda 
J c. milk — sour or sweet 



Digitized by 



Google 



224 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Ginger Cup Cakes 

Ingredients : 

i c. butter i tsp. ginger 

i c. sugar i tsp. cloves 

1 c. molasses i c. boiling water 

2 eggs 2§ c. flour 

. I tsp. cinnamon 2 tsp. soda 

i tsp. salt 

Roxbury Cakes 

Ingredtents: 

i c. butter ij c. flour 

1 c. sugar I tsp. soda or 

J c. molasses 2 tsp. baking powder 

2 eggs I tsp. cloves 
i c. milk — sour or sweet J tsp. nutmeg 

i c. nuts J c. raisins or dates 

Cakes without Butter 

General Rides for Mixing. 

Sift flour and sugar several times before measuring each. Beat 
yolks until lemon-colored, add sugar gradually and flavoring. Partly 
fold in stiffly beaten whites. Fold in the flour sifted with the salt. 
The folding should be carefully done so that the mixture will not 
become stiff. 

General Rides for Baking. 

Use a tube cake pan — unbuttered. Slow oven — 40-60 minutes. 
Oven door should not be opened during first 20 minutes. After 
baking, invert pan on cake cooler and do not remove cake until cold. 

Sponge Cakes 

Yellow Sponge Cake 

Ingredients : 

yolks of 6 eggs grated rind J lemon 

I c. sugar whites of 6 eggs 

I tbsp. lemon juice i c. flour 
J tsp. salt 



Digitized by 



Google 



CAKE 22S 

Boiled Sponge Cake 

Ingredients: 

I c. sugar § c. water 

I c. flour 6 eggs 

Boil sugar and water to thread stage. Add to 6 whites beaten stiff, 
and beat until cold. Fold in flour sifted with i tsp. salt and a few 
grains of cream of tartar. Fold in the well-beaten yolks. 



Sponge Drops 

Ingredients: 

3 whites eggs J c. flour 

2 yolks eggs ^ tsp. salt 

i c. powdered sugar J tsp. vanilla 

Drop from teaspoon on buttered sheets. 



Sponge Cakes with Baking Powder 

When eggs are expensive, the number may be decreased, and bak- 
ing powder used to help raise the mixture. 



Hot Water Sponge Cake 

Ingredients : 

yolks of 3 eggs 2 tsp. baking powder 

I c. sugar whites 3 eggs 

I c. flour grated rind J orange 

j\iice of orange and enough hot water to make i cup 



Sponge Cake 

Ingredients : 

3 eggs I tsp. baking powder 

I c. sugar i c. cold water 

I c. flour I tsp. vanilla 
i tsp. salt 



Digitized by 



Google 



226 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

JeUyRoU 

Ingredunts: 

I c. sugar I c. flour 

5 eggs I tsp. baking powder 

I tsp. vanilla i tsp. salt 

Line oblong pan with greased paper. When baked, remove paper, 
spread with jelly and roll. 

White Sponge Cake 

Ingredients : 

whites of 8 eggs i tsp. vanilla 

I tsp. cream tartar J tsp. salt 

I c. sugar, fine granulated f c. flour 

Mocha Cakes 
Bake sponge cake mixture in a shallow pan. See below. 

Sponge Cake for Mocha Cakes 

Ingredients: 

yolks 2 eggs grated rind ^ lemon 

f c. sugar whites 2 eggs 

I tbsp. lemon juice J c. flour 

salt 
Method: 

Beat yolks imtil creamy ; add sugar, beat well, lemon juice. Fold 
in stiffly beaten whites ; when partially folded in, fold in flour. Bake 
in unbuttered pan in a slow oven. 

Cut cake in small circles, — put together in 3 layers with thin 
coating of frosting ; cover sides with frosting and roll in fresh coco- 
nut or chopped nuts. Ornament top with frosting. 

V 

Frosting for Mocha Cakes 

Ingredients : 

I c. butter i c. powdered sugar 

Method: 

Cream the butter and add the sugar. Add i c. cream filling 
(cooled). Add } tsp. vanilla, i§ oz. melted chocolate. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CAKE 227 

Genoese Cakes 

Bake jelly roll mixture in a shallow pan. Have mixture when 
baked about f inch thick. Cut the cake into fancy shapes, dip each 
in glaze, allow this to cool and then redip the cakes in soft fondant, 
colored and flavored. These may be decorated with the following': 

cherries citron 

nuts angelica 

candied violet leaves candied rose leaves 

Glaze 

Ingredients: 

i c. sugar J c. water 

Method: 

Put the sugar and water in a saucepan and stir the mixture until 
the sugar is dissolved. Allow the sirup to cook until a hard ball 
forms in cold water ; when the sirup has cooled slightly, use it to 
glaze Genoese cakes. 

Score Cards 

Loaf Cake 
General appearance 25 

Size (5) 

Shape (10) 

Color (5) 

Surface (5) 
Flavor 50 

Taste (25) 

Odor (25) 
Texture and interior appearance . 25 

Lightness (5) 

Tenderness (5) 

Elasticity (5) 

Grain (5) 

Color (5) 



Digitized by 



Google 



228 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Layer Cake 

General appearance iS 

Size (5) 

Shape (5) 

Surface (5) 

Layers 35 

Thickness (10) 
Flavor (15) 

Texture (10) 

Filling 30 

Consistency (10) 
Suitability (5) 
Flavor (5) 

Thickness (5) 
Color (2) 

Surface (3) 

Combined flavor 20 

100 

Sponge Cake 

General appearance 25 

Color (5) 

Surface (10) 
Shape (10) 

Flavor 50 

Taste (40) 

Odor (10) 

Texture and interior appearance 25 

Lightness (5) 
Tenderness (5) 
Elasticity (5) 
Grain (5) 
Color (s) 



Digitized by 



Google 



CAKE 



229 



FOOD VALUES 
Hot Water Gingerbread 



Material 



SB 



S2 
£0 



^(3 



(3 



fic3 



Molasses 
Water . 
Flour . 
Soda . 
Ginger 
Salt . 
Melted 
butter 

Total, I 
cooked I 

loo-Cal- I 
orie Por-s 
t;on I 



I c. 

}c. 

2ic. 

I tsp. 
I J tsp. 
i tsp. 

4 tbsp. 



SS2 . 
1 14.6 
250.2 

4.3 

4 

2.25 

78 



7.97 
28.02 



78 



2.50 



66.52 



230.08 
187.4 



953 
883 



600 



.0375 

028 
,001 
.0015 



.06 



1. 14 
.06 



.017 



.9 
.44 

.023 



Loaf 

10X6X2 

inches 

aiXii 

X2 

inches 



674 



27.63 



36.77 



1.51 



69.12 



2.9 



417.48 



17.12 



2436 



1281 



.005 



1. 217 



.051 



1.363 



.055 



049 
.003 



.052 



Chocolate Cake 



Sugar . . 


I c. 


205.5 






205.5 


822 


.02 








Gutter . 


Jc. 


59-7 


.6 


50.75 




459 


.04 


.013 


.0183 




Eggs . . 


2 


95.6 


12.91 


10.04 




141 


.06 


.064 


.3384 


.0026 


Flour . . 


lie. 


148.3 


16.61 


1.48 


111.08 


523 


.OT 


.036 


.262 


.002 


Milk . . 


fc. 


161.9 


5.34 


6.48 


8.10 


112 


.01 


.257 


.339 


.0003 


Chocolate 


2 OZ. 


37.9 


4.89 


18.46 


11.48 


231 


.04 


.o46 


.324 




Soda . . 


i tsp. 


2.2 










.0005 








Total, 1 
cooked! 


Loaf 

9X5X2 

inches 


624 


40.25 


87.21 


336.16 


2289 


.21 


.416 


1. 2817 


.0049 


loo-Cal- r 






















orie Por-< 


^XiiX3 


26.83 


1.73 


3.75 


14.45 


100 


.01 


.016 


.0512 


.0001 


tion [ 


inches 





















Digitized by 



Google 



230 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



FOOD VALUES 
Hot Water Sponge Cake 



Material 



Eggs . 
Sugar . 
Flour . 
Baking 

powder 
Lemon juice 
Water . . 

Total, 
cooked 

looCalorie 
Portion . 



1^ 



2 
I C. 
I C. 

li tsp. 
2 tbsp. 

ic. 



12 small 
cakes 



^O 



90 

205.5 

II2.2 

9 
28.2 



360.6 
26.32 



SO 



12.06 
12.45 



24.51 
1.78 



9-45 
I. II 



10.56 

.77 



205.5 
83.28 



2.76 



291.54 
21.28 



132 
822 
392 



1357 



.058 

.0271 

,0117 

.004 
.016 



.1168 
.0685 



!3| 



.079 
.027 

.009 



.115 
.008 



If 



.264 
.196 

.006 



.466 
.032 



.0013 
.0015 



.0028 



Ingredients: 

I c. sugar 
J c. water 
i tsp. cream of tartar 



Cooked Frostings 
White Motmtain 



I egg white 

I tsp. lemon juice 

I tsp. vanilla 



Method: 

Boil first three ingredients to thread stage. Pour slowly on beaten 
white, add flavoring, and heat until thick enough to spread. 

Chocolate I 

2-4 oz. chocolate melted. 

Add to White Motmtain Frosting before spreading on cake. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CAKE 231 

Chocolate n 

4 oz. chocolate melted with a little milk. Cook imtil thickens, 
add I c. sugar. Remove from fire, add i tbsp. butter, i tsp. vanilla. 
Beat imtil smooth. 



Fudge Frosting 

Ingredients: 

I c. sugar \ c. milk 

2 oz. chocolate 
Method: 

Boil to soft ball stage. Add 2 tbsp, butter and i tsp. vanilla. Cool. 
Beat imtil thick enough to spread. ' 



Maple 

i lb. maple sugar J c. boiling water 

I egg white 

Break or grate sugar. Method same as White Moimtain. 



Caramel 
I c. brown sugar J c. granulated sugar 

f c. cream i tbsp. butter 

Prepare as Fudge Frosting. 



Uncooked Frostings 

Confectioners' Frosting 

Ingredients: 

2 tbsp. water, milk, fresh fruit confectioners* sugar 

juice or cream flavoring 

Method: 

To the liquid add enough sifted sugar to make of right consistency 
to spread, then add flavoring. 



Digitized by 



Google 



2^2 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Chocolate Frosting 

Ingredients: 

2 oz. chocolate 3 tbsp. hot water 

1 tbsp. butter confectioners' sugar 

J tsp. vanilla 
Method : 

Melt chocolate over boiling water, add butter and hot water. 
Cool, and add sugar to make of right consistency to spread. Flavor 
with vanilla. 

Cocoa Fros ing 

Ingredients: 

2 tbsp. cocoa I tbsp. butter 
boiling water to make paste confectioners* sugar 

I tsp. vanilla 

Coffee Frosting 

Ingredients: 

2 tsp. cocoa I tbsp. butter 

confectioners' sugar 2 tbsp. strong coffee 

Method : 

Melt butter in the hot coffee. Add cocoa and sugar until of right 
consistency to spread. 

Mocha Frosting 

Ingredients : 

J c. butter i tbsp. breakfast cocoa 

i| c. confectioners' sugar coffee infusion 

Method: 

Cream butter, and add sugar gradually, continuing the beating; 
then add cocoa and coffee infusion drop by drop until of right con- 
sistency to spread. 

Orange Frosting 

Ingredients : 

4 tbsp. orange juice i tsp. lemon juice 

rind i orange 



Digitized by 



Google 



CAKE 



233 



Method: 

Soak rind in the juice § hour, strain, 
fectioners* sugar to spread. 



Add 2 egg yolks, and con- 



Ingredients : 



Lemon 



I c. sugar 
2i tbsp. flour 
rind of 2 lemons 
i c. lemon juice 
I egg 
I tsp. Gutter 



Cake Fillings 



Orange 



i c. sugar 
2^ tbsp. flour 
rind i orange 
J c. orange juice 
i tbsp. lemon juice 
I egg 



I tsp. butter 



Method : 

Mix sugar and flour, add fruit juice and rind. Cook 20 minutes in 
double boiler. Add egg and cook a little longer, stirring constantly. 
Add butter and cool. 



Cream 

Ingredients: 

7 tbsp. sugar 

2f tbsp. flour 

salt 

I c. milk — scalded 

xegg 

I tsp. vanilla 



Chocolate 

i c. sugar 

3 tbsp. flour 

I oz. chocolate 

I c. milk — scalded 

I egg yolk 

I tsp. vanilla 



Method : 

Mix dry ingredients with a little of the cold milk. Add to the 
scalded milk, and cook 20 minutes in double boiler. Add egg and 
cook a little longer. Add the vanilla. Cool. 

Chocolate. Shave the chocolate and add i tbsp. hot water to it. 
Heat it in double boiler until smooth. Pour the cooked flour mix- 
ture over this. Then add the egg and vanilla. 



Digitized by 



Google 



234 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Fig 

Ingredients: 

i lb. chopped figs i c. boiling water 

} c. sugar I tbsp. lemon juice 

Method: 

Mix all together, and cook in a double boiler until thick enough 
to spread. 

Fruit 
Add chopped fruit and nuts to White Mountain Frosting. 



Digitized by 



Google 





CHAPTER XV 






PASTRY 




Ingredients : 

I c. flour 


Plain Paste I 


i tsp. salt 


} c. lard 




ice water 


li c. flour 


Plain Paste 11 


ic. lard 


J c. butter 


ice water • 


i tsp. salt 



Flour. — Pastry or bread flour may be used. 

Shortening. — Butter, lard, crisco, oleomargarine, drippings, 
chicken fat, or refined oils or combinations of two or more may be 
used. 

General Rules for Plain Paste, 

I. Sift flour, measure and sift flour and salt. Cut in shortening 
with 2 knives. Add water to make a stiff dough. Chill. Roll out 
on floxured board. 

II. Wash butter in cold water to remove salt and buttermilk. 
Chill butter and lard. Sift flour and salt and cut in shortening. 
Roll lightly into an oblong piece ; roll from center forward and from 
center backward. Fold crosswise in thirds. Turn halfway aroimd, 
roll and fold a second time. 



Ingredients: 



I lb. bread flour 



Puff Paste 

ice water 
235 



I lb. butter 



Digitized by 



Google 



236 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

The liquid may be cream, water, or egg whites. Weigh the butter, 
place in ice water, and wash to remove salt and buttermilk. Weigh 
the flour and add water to make a stiff dough, wrap in a towel and 
put on ice. (Placing between 2 pans of chopped ice is a convenient 
way of chilling,) Dredge board with flour, also the rolling pin. 
Roll the dough into a rectangle almost as long as the board. Place 
the butter in center, fold the paste one side over and press edges 
together. Fold in thirds — lower part over, upper part under. 
Press edges, poimd lightly with rolling pin to a rectangle and fold 
in thirds — both over. Turn the mixture halfway aroimd, poimd, 
roll and fold. Repeat twice imless the butter shows through the 
flour mixture, and chill. Repeat three times, and the last time fold 
from ends to center and double, making 4 layers. Chill. Use this 
paste for tarts, patties, or crusts. 

. Patties 

Cut off a piece of dough, turn halfway roimd, poimd to i inch in 
thickness. Cut tops, poimd a little thinner and cut first layers. 
Cut five small centers from the tops. Put together, place on sheet 
and chill 15 minutes. 

Baking : 

21 min. in hot oven 
7 min. rise 
7 min. brown 
7 min. finish baking at reduced temperature 

Cheese Straws 

Roll out paste, sprinkle with grated cheese and cayenne. Fold, 
turn, and poimd 3 times. Chill. Cut in strips. 

Banbury Tarts 

Cut paste 3X3} inches. Place § tsp. of Banbury Filling on one 
side, fold one side over and press edges. Prick top with fork. 



Digitized by 



Google 



PASTRY 



237 



Banbury Filling 

Ingredients: 

I lemon — boiled 15 minutes i c. sugar 

I c. raisins i egg 

Method: 

Remove seeds from lemon, chop raisins and lemon, and add sugar 
and egg. 

Classification of Pies 

One Crust — Unbaked, 
Lattice top 
Custard Cherry 

Piunpkin Cranberry 

Sour cream Mock cherry 



One Crust — Baked One Crust — Unbaked 



Chocolate 
Coconut 
Cream 
Lemon 



Two Crusts 
Apple 
Mince 



Turnover 

Apple 

Fruit mixtures 



Tarts 
JeUy 
Banbury 
Cream 
Fruit mixtures 



One Crust — Baked 



Invert pie tin. Bake crust on 
baked. 


it; turn right side up as soon as 




CSEAM 


Coconut 


Chocolate 


Lemon 


Sugar . . 
Flour . 
Salt . . 
Milk . . 
Egg yolks . 
Butter . 
Vanilla . 


. I c. . 
. 4 tbsp. 
. itsp. 
. 2 c. 

. 3 

. I tsp. 
. . I tsp. 


1 c. 

2 tbsp. 
itsp. 
lie 

2 

I tsp. 
I tbsp. 
I c. coconut 


1 c. 

3 tbsp. 
itsp. 

2 c. 
3 

1 tbsp. 

2 oz. chocolate 

or i c. cocoa 


I c. 

5 tbsp. 
itsp. 

I c. boiling water 
2 

I tbsp. 

juice and rind 
I lemon 


Ingredients 


. 


Meringue 




2 wl: 






4 tbsp. granulated sugar 

Digitized by LjOOQIC 



238 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Add sugar slowly to stiffly beaten whites and continue beating. 
Bake in slow oven. 

One Crust — Unbaked 

Line a very deep tin with paste, allowing \ inch on edge of plate 
for a frill. Turn crust imder and make a frill with thumb and fore- 
fingers. 

To prevent soggy crust : • 

Brush paste with white of egg 
Dredge paste with flour 

Custard Pumpkin 

Ingredients: • Ingredients: 

2 eggs J tsp. salt li c. pumpkin i tsp. ginger 

3 tbsp. sugar i J c. milk i c. brown sugar ^ tsp. salt 

i tsp. nutmeg i tsp. cinnamon 2 eggs 

I c. milk 2 tbsp. molasses 

Sour Cream 

Ingredients: 

3 yolks of eggs i c. Chopped raisins 

I c. sugar I tsp. cinnamon 

I c. sour cream J tsp. cloves 
J tsp. salt 

One Crust — Unbaked — Lattice Top 

Line deep tin with paste ; cut off close to edge. Cover top of pie 
with strips of paste. 

Mock Cherry 

Ingredients: 

I c. cranberries i c. sugar 

i c. raisins 2 tbsp. flour 

J c. cold water 



Digitized by 



Google 



paStry 239 

Method: 

Cut cranberries in halves. Wash to remove seeds. Chop with 
raisins and add remaining ingredients. 

Two Crusts 

Line tin with plain paste. Fill and cover with a paste, which has 
been pricked to allow the escape of steam. Insert a narrow strip of 
paste between lining and top. Moisten with cold water and press 
edges firmly. Trim and ornament as desired. 

Note : A strip of doth may be wrapped around the pie to prevent escape 
of juice. A cornucopia of paper inserted in the center allows 
the escape of juice. 

Apple Pie 
tart apples spice 

sugar butter 

water 

Mince Meat 
Ingredients : 

2 lbs. fresh beef, stewed and put through a meat grinder 

1 lb. beef suet, finely chopped 
5 lbs. chopped apples 

2 lbs. seeded raisins 

1 lb. sidtana raisins 

2 lbs. currants 

f lb. citron, finely cut 
2 tbsp. cinnamon 

1 tbsp. nutmeg 

2 tbsp. mace 
I tbsp. cloves 

2i lbs. brown sugar 

I tbsp. salt 

i lb. candied orange peel 

i lb. candied lemon peel 

I qt. boiled cider 

water 



Digitized by 



Google 



240 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Mix all ingredients except the raisins with water to cover and allow 
the mixture to cook 6 hours slowly, adding water as necessary to 
prevent burning. When ready to use, add the raisins. Spread in a 
pastry shell, dot over with small pieces of butter, and cover with 
upper crust. 

Green Tomato Mince Meat^ 

Ingredients : 

2 c. chopped green tomato 2 c. brown sugar 

2 c. chopped sweet apples \ c. molasses 

J c. cracker crumbs J c. vinegar 

i c. butter i c. raisins 

I tbsp. each : i c. currants 

cinnamon mace 

cloves nutmeg 

Method: 

Mix all the ingredients except the butter and allow the mixtiure to 
cook slowly imtil thick. Add the butter just before removing from 
the fire. This mixture is sufficient for three pies. 



Turnovers 

Cut paste in squares and fold over the filling as triangles or in 
circles as half circles. 



Tarts 

Cover back of tin cups with paste, prick, bake, remove from crust 
and fill. Cut 2 circles of paste. Remove center of one and put the 
two circles together with cold water. Bake and place a small amoimt 
of filling in each. 

^ Students who grow their own tomatoes will find this an excellent way to utilize 
tomatoes which are still green at frost. 



Digitized by 



Google 



PASTRY 241 

Score Cards 

Two-crust Pie 

General appearance 20 

Form (5) 

Attractiveness (5) 

Design (5) 

Workmanship (5) 

Pastry 45 

Upper crust 
Flakiness ' (5) 

Tenderness (5) 

Surface (5) 

Palatability (5) 

Bake (10) 

Under crust 
Color (S) 

Bake (5) 

Rim (5) • 

Filling 30 

Flavor (20) 

Consistency (5) 

Thoroughness of cooking (5) 

Ease oj serving 5 

100 
One-crust Pie 

General appearance 20 

Color (10) 

Shape (10) 

Pastry 35 

Color (5) 

Tenderness (5) 

Surface (5) 

Palatability (10) 

Bake (10) 

Filling 40 

Consistency (5) 
Flavor (30) 
Smoothness (5) 
Fjise of serving , 5 



Digitized by 



Google 



242 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

One-crust Pie and Meringue 

General appearance 20 

Workmanship (10) 

Attractiveness (10) 
Pastry 36 

Color (5) 

Flakiness (5) 

Tenderness (5) 

Siurface (5) . 

Palatability (5) 

Condition (s) 
Filling 30 

Consistency (5) 

Smoothness (5) 

Flavor (20) 
Meringue 15 

Color (3) 

Surface (3) ' 

Lightness (3) 

Tenderness (3) 

Bake (3) 

Ease of serving ^ • • 5 

100 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER XVI 

FLOUR MIXTURES USING SOUR MILK, BUTTERMILK, 
SOUR CREAM 

Brown Bread 

Ingredtents: 

2 c. graham flour i c. sour milk or butter- 

I c. corn meal milk 

I c. sweet milk i c. molasses 

I tsp. soda I tsp. salt 

Method: , 

Mix the graham flour well with the com meal, sifting the soda and 
salt with the corn meal. Add the liquid ingredients and stir 
thoroughly. Bake in a well-greased covered pan or mold in a 
moderate oven two hours. 

Indian Bread 



Ingredients : 








2 c. coin meal 




2 c. sour milk 




li c. flour 




I c. molasses 




2 tsp. soda 




I tsp. salt 




Method: 








Sift soda, salt, and flour. Add the com meal, mix 


well and 


add the liquid ingredients. 


Turn into a 


buttered mold and steam 3 


hours. 








Steamed Graham Bread 




Ingredtents : 








I egg 




I c. sour milk 




I c. graham flour 




i c. molasses 




I c. wheat flour 


i tsp. salt 
243 


I tsp. soda 





Digitized by 



Google 



244 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Sift the soda, salt, and wheat floiu*. Mix well with the graham 
flour, add the liquid ingredients and lastly the egg, slightly beaten. 
Turn into a well-greased mold and steam two hours. 

Com Meal Gems 

Ingredients: 

I c. sweet milk } c. molasses 

3 tbsp. sour cream i tsp. soda 

I c. com meal i c. wheat flour 

\ tsp. salt 
Method: 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Add the liquids and mix 
thoroughly. Turn into greased muffin tins, and bake in a moderate 
oven 12 minutes. 



Ingredients : 

1 c. buttermilk or 
sour milk 

2 c. graham flour 
I tsp. cinnamon 



Graham Pudding 



I c. molasses 
I c. raisins 
I tsp. soda 
\ tsp. salt 



Method: 

Mix the cinnamon, salt, and soda well with the graham flour. Add 
the liquid ingredients and the raisins. Mix thoroughly and turn 
into a buttered mold and allow it to steam three hours, or turn into 
individual molds and steam 45 minutes. 



Ingredients: 

3 c. chopped suet 
I c. molasses 
I c. sugar 
I lb. raisins 
I lb. currants 
i lb. citron 
I tsp. soda 



Plum Pudding 



1 c. sour milk 

2 eggs 

I tsp. nutmeg 
I tbsp. cinnamon 
I tsp. ginger 
I tsp. cloves 
\ tsp. mace 



I c. bread crumbs 



Digitized by 



Google 



FLOUR MIXTURES USING SOUR MILK 245 

Method: 

Wash and prepare the currants and raisins. Put through the 
meat grinder with the citron. Mix the finely chopped suet with the 
bread crumbs and thoroughly mix the spices, salt, and soda all 
through. Add this to the first mixture, add the molasses and sour 
milk and lastly the eggs slightly beaten. Turn into buttered molds 
and steam five hours. 

Dried Apple Cake 

Ingredients: 

I c. dried apples (soaked over- i egg 

night) 3§ c. flour 

I c. molasses i tsp. soda 

§ c. butter i c. sugar 

I c. buttermilk i tsp. cloves 

I tsp. cinnamon i tsp. nutmeg 

Metho^: 

Cook the molasses and dried apples imtil thick. Allow the mix- 
ture to cool. Cream the butter, add the sugar and egg slightly 
beaten. Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Add the milk and dry 
ingredients alternately to the egg mixture. Lastly add the molasses 
and apple. Mix thoroughly. Turn into a prepared pan and bake 
30 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Fruit Cake without Eggs 

Ingredients : 

1 c. sugar I c. sour milk 
4 tbsp. butter i c. raisins 

2 c. flour I tsp. soda 

i tsp. salt I tsp. cinnamon 

i tsp. cloves 
Method: , 

Cream the butter, add the sugar and stir imtil the mixture is light- 
colored. Mix and sift the dry ingredients and add alternately to 
the first mixture. Add the raisins and bake in a moderate oven 30 
minutes. 



Digitized by 



Google 



246 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Spice Cake I 

Ingredtents: 

i c. butter J c. sour milk 

i c. sugar 2 c. flour 

i c. molasses i tsp. soda 

1 egg i tsp. cloves 

i c. raisins i tsp. cimiamon 

Method: 

Follow general directions for cake mixtures. Bake in very moder- 
ate oven 45 minutes. 

Spice Cake n 

Ingredients: 

f c. butter • i c. buttermilk 

2 c. brown sugar 2 tsp. soda 

3 eggs 2 c. flour 

I tsp. cinnamon i tsp. cloves 

1 tsp. allspice i tsp. nutmeg 
Method : 

Follow general directions for cake mixture. Bake as a loaf cake 
40 minutes, or as a layer cake 30 minutes. 

Sugar Cookies 

Ingredients: 

2 c. sugar I c. sour cream 
2 eggs 2 tsp. soda 

I c. butter i tsp. cream of tartar 

flour to make a stiff dough 
Method: 

Follow general directions for cooky mixtures. 

Molasses Cookies I 

Ingredients: 

I egg I c. shortening 

1 c. sugar I c. buttermilk 

2 c. molasses i tsp. soda 

I tsp. ginger i tsp. cinnamon 

flour to make a stiff dough 
Method: 

Follow general directions for cooky mixtures. 



DigitizQd by 



Google 



FLOUR MIXTURES USING SOUR MILK 



247 



Ingredients : 

I c. brown sugar 
I c. molasses 
I tsp. salt 
i§ tsp. soda 



Molasses Cookies U 



I c. buttermilk 

I c. lard 

I tsp. ginger 

flour to make a soft dough 



Soft Gingerbread 



Ingredients : 

\ c. sugar I c. buttermilk 

1 c. molasses i tsp. ginger 
\ c. butter i tsp. cloves 

2 tsp. soda 2§ c. flour 

2 eggs I tsp. cinnamon 

Method : 

Follow general rules for combining cake mixtures. Bake in a 

shallow pan 30 minutes in a moderate oven. 



Ingredients: 

1 c. sugar 

2 eggs 

I tsp. soda 
I tsp. salt 



Ingredients: 

1 c. sugar 

2 eggs 

I tsp. soda 



Fried Cakes 

1 c. sour cream 
i c. buttermilk 

2 tsp. baking powder 
nutmeg 

flour to make a soft dough 

Doughnuts I 

I tbsp. butter 
I c. sour milk 
nutmeg 
flour to make a soft dough 

Doughnuts n 



Ingredients : 

I c. sugar 3 tbsp. butter 

I c. thick sour milk i tsp. soda 

(beaten to a froth) ^ tsp. nutmeg 

flour to make a soft dough i tsp. salt 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER XVII 

SALADS AND SANDWICHES 

The American salad is a combination of meat, fish, poultry, fruit, or 
vegetables served on salad greens with a dressing. The oil of the 
dressing usually gives a high fuel value. If made with meat, fish, or 
poultry, the protein content may also be hi^ ; if fruits and vegetables 
are used, the salad may be chiefly significant for the ash constituents 
which these furnish. 



I. Salad greens are : 




lettuce 


beet tops 


chicory 


dandelions 


romainc 


spinach 


endive 


celery 


escarole 


cabbage 


water cress 


chives 


2. Foimdation salads are : 




a. Meat 




chicken 


veal 


lamb 


sweetbread 


b. Fish 




tuna 


salmon 


white fish 




c. Shellfish 




lobster 


crab 


shrimp 


scallops 


d. Eggs 





248 



Digitized by 



Google 



SALADS AND SANDWfCHES 



249 



e. Vegetables 






potatoes 


, 


carrots 


beets 




onions 


peas 




beans 


asparagus 




cuomibers 


radishes 


cauliflower 


celery 


/. Fruits 






cherries 




oranges 


lemon 




grapefruit 


apples 




peaches 


pears 




apricots 


green peppers 




green tomatoes 


white grapes 


bananas 


pineapple 


g, Miscellaneoiis 






figs 




dates 


nuts 


cheese 


gelatin 


3. Salad dressings are : 






French 




mayonnaise 


boiled 


mixtures 


cream 


OTE : The above salad dressings have many variations as to color, tas 


and consistency, 


but the foundation is one of the five given. 


4. Variations in salad dressings : 




a, French dressing ^ 


plus 




horseradish 




Roquefort cheese 


pimento 




chili sauce 


chives 




hard-cooked egg, minced 


beets, finely chopped 


green pepper 


parsley 




celery, finely chopped 


whipped cream 


pecans 


hazelnuts 




English walnuts 


1 Described in the next chapter. 






Digitized by VjOC 



250 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

fruit juice in place of vinegar water cress 
raspberry vinegar, or tarra- pepper grass 

gon, used in place of 

cider vinegar 

b. Mayonnaise dressing * 

beaten white of egg whipped cream 

fruit juice in place of vinegar chili sauce 

green pepper, chopped pimento minced (puree) 

olives chives 

raspberry vinegar tabasco sauce 

sardines reduced to a paste 

c. Boiled dressings 

any variations as for mayonnaise 
Salads: when served; 

1. Formal meal 

green salad with French dressing or modification 

2. Liformal meal 

a, any salad, provided the same ingredients are not repeated 

in another part of the meal 

b. any dressing 

3. Luncheon 

a. Formal 

green with French dressing 

fruit with French or mayonnaise dressing or modification 

chicken, if served in place of other meat in meal 

b. Liformal 

any salad or dressing — provided ingredients are not re- 
peated in other courses of meal 

4. Suppers 

meat 

fish 

shellfish 

fruit 

miscellaneous , 

1 Described in the next chapter. 



used with any dressing or combination 



Digitized by 



Google 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



251 



Light refreshments 
meat 
shellfish 
fruit 

asparagus 
miscellaneous ^ 



used with any dressing or combination 



The attractive salad must embody the following points : 



freshness 

crispness 

appetizing combination 

harmonize with the decora- 
tion and color of the china 
in which it is served 



coolness 
attractive color 
appropriateness to the meal 
harmonize with the rest of 
the meal 



To prepare salad greens : 

a. Wash leaves and examine carefully for parasites, sand, etc. 

b. Pile leaves lightly on a cheesecloth, fold the cloth over and 

keep thus arranged on ice or near the ice, or 
Wash the leaves and place them in a tin pail which can be 

tightly covered. Set the pail in the ice box. Salad greens 

can be carried for a picnic in a pail and arrive in good 

condition. 
If salad greens are wilted, allow them to stand in cold or ice 

water for some time before attempting to prepare. 
Accessories served with salads : 



c. 



d. 



b. 



Breadstuffs 

bread sticks 

rolls 

cheese straws 

toasted crackers 

educator crackers 
Other accessories 

cheese balls 

fried cheese balls 

radishes 

olives : ripe, green, stuffed 



toast 

cheese tea biscuits 

cheese crackers 

saltines 



toasted cheese 

celery : curls, pieces, 

hearts 
Bar le Due currants 
nuts : salted, unsalted 



Digitized by 



Google 



252 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Salads may be made in the greatest variety of combinations : among 
the most popular are : 

1. Meat 

a. chicken, celery 

chicken, celery, sour apple, pine nuts 
chicken, celery, pine nuts, tiny sections lemon 

b. veal, celery 

veal, chicken, celery 

c, lamb, celery 

d, sweet bread, endive cut in sections 

2. Fish 

a, tima, celery 

b, salmon, celery 
salmon, cabbage x 
salmon, cuciunber, gelatin 

c, white fish, celery 

3. Shellfish 

a. lobster, celery 

b. crab, celery 

c. scallops 

4. Egg 

egg, green pepper 
egg, pimento 
egg, potato 

5. Vegetables 

a, potato 

French dressing potato, chives 

boiled dressing potato, parsley 

^ potato, carrot potato, egg 

potato, beets potato, cucumber, green 
potato, German onions pepper 

b. carrot 

grated raw, boiled, or cooked 
carrot, peas 



Digitized by 



Google 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 253 

c, beets, potato 

beets, peas 

beets, stuffed with cabbage 

d, onions 

German onions, tomato 

onions, cucumber 

onion, dressing as sandwich 

e, peas, carrots 

peas, string beans 

peas, potato each in a lettuce cup 
/. beans 

string beans 

lima beans 

baked beans 
g, asparagus 

pimento 

green pepper 
h^ cucumbers, radishes 

celery 
♦. cauliflower, tart dressing 

6. Fruits 

a. white cherries, pieces pineapple 

white cherries, balls of pear, apple, or peach 

h, orange, grapefruit orange, water cress 

orange, pineapple orange, almonds 

orange, lemon, walnuts 

c. grapefruit, pineapple 

d. apple, celery, nuts 
apple, water cress 

e. peach halves filled with mayonnaise and nuts 

peach halves stuck with almonds covered with mayonnaise 
pears used as peaches 
/. fresh apricots, almonds, or pine nuts 
g, green pepper 

sHced or chopped 
stuffed with ; 



Digitized by 



Google 



254 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

cream cheese and mayonnaise 
cream cheese and punento 
yellow cheese and mayonnaise 

American cheese and green and red pepper chopped very 
fine 
filled with : 

. „. J . r I c. water juice i lemon 

jeUied mayonnaise < , ^ . 

I 2 tsp. gelatm i c. mayonnaise 

tarragon jelly mixed with chopped cabbage, celery, pimento 

red pepper — use as green pepper 
h, tomato 

sliced 

cut in halves, cover cut surface with stiff mayonnaise, over 
this chopped green pepper 

poinsettia 

cut skin and piilp in sections as petals of poinsettia 
remove part of pulp and seeds and fill cavity with 
chopped celery and green pepper 
i, cucumbers 

tomato and cucumber slices 

variations given with potato 
j, pineapple 

circles, nuts 

circles cut to make sections, roll of cream cheese 

between each section 

see white cherries, orange, grapefruit 
k. bananas 

banana, finely chopped p»eanuts 

7. Miscellaneous 

figs, dates, nuts, cream dressing 

dates, stuffed with cream cheese, mayonnaise dressing 

dates, almonds, mayonnaise dressing 

dates, Brazil nuts, mayonnaise dressing 

gelatin given 

Fruits and vegetables may be cut in cubes, balls, shredded, or fancy 
shapes. Containers may be made of orange or lemon rind, apples, 



Digitized by 



Google 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 255 

peppers, tomatoes, peaches, pears, cabbage leaves, lettuce hearts, 
whole cabbage, beet shells, cucumbers, romaine leaves. 

Sandwiches 
General Rales, 

1 . Bread should be a day old, imless it is going to be rolled. . White, 
graham, or Boston brown may be used. Sometimes two kinds are 
used in the same sandwich. Slice as thin as possible, remove crusts 
if desired, keeping the slices in pairs, then cut the desired shape. 
To give variety, bread may be cut in fancy shapes, — hearts, triangles, 
squares, rectangles, circles, etc. The center may be removed from a 
white bread sandwich with a tiny cutter and the hole filled in with a 
piece of brown bread the size of the piece removed. 

2. Cream the butter by rubbing it against the sides of a bowl with 
a wooden spoon. 

3. Butter one side of the sandwich and put filling on the other side. 
Press lightly together. 

4. Wrap sandwiches in paraflin paper. Large numbers may be 
placed in a crock and covered with a damp towel and plate. 

5. Save crusts of bread. Dry and grate for fine crumbs for cro- 
quettes. 

6. Meat and poultry fillings are best when the meat is chopped. 

7. Serve sandwiches in a basket or on a plate covered with a doily. 

Sandwiches 
Conveyor of filling : 
Bread 

white Boston brown 

entire wheat nut 

graham raisin 

Gingersnaps 

cheese fillings are best with gingersnaps 
Crackers 

Educator Saltines 

fillings fillings 

cheese cheese 

marmalade nut 

fig date marmalade 



Digitized by 



Google 



256 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Toast 

fillings 
marmalade 

fig 

date 
salad 
Fillings for sandwiches : 
Meat: 
ham — chopped, seasoned 
ham — chopped, sauce tartare 
ham — chopped, hard-cooked eggs 
ham — chopped, hard-cooked eggs, white sauce 
tongue, corned beef, lamb, veal, poultry or a combination of 
any of the above 

Baked beans : 
Salad: 

poultry, veal or lamb chopped, celery, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

cucumber, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

^;g, mayonnaise, lettuce 

olive, cream cheese, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

egg, olives, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

lobster, celery, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

shrimp, celery, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

tima fish, celery, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

salmon, celery, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

lettuce, mayonnaise 

lettuce, mayonnaise, sliced tomatoes 
Cheese: 

American cheese — moistened with vinegar, anchovy essence, or 
sardine paste 

American cheese sliced ; dill pickles sliced, highly seasoned 

cream cheese — moistened with cream 

cream cheese — moistened with mayonnaise 

cream cheese, pimento 

cream cheese, walnuts or peanuts 

cream cheese, olives 



Digitized by 



Google 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 257 

cream cheese, French dressing, pecans 

cream cheese, green and red peppers 

cream cheese, dairy cheese grated, highly seasoned 

cottage cheese, green peppers 

cottage cheese, parsley finely chopped 
Nut: 

walnuts or any nuts chopped, cream 

walnuts or any nuts chopped, mayonnaise 
Sour: 

sweet pickles, olives, red pepper, dressing 

sour pickles, green pepper, celery, dressing 

olives, celery, red pepper, dressing 

cucumber, green pepper, mayonnaise 

chives, tomato, cut fine, cucimiber 
Miscellaneous : 

chopped dates, cream cheese 

sweet chocolate; preserved ginger, chopped, moistened with 
ginger sirup 

chopped dates, walnuts or any other kind of nut 

jelly, walnuts 

preserved ginger, walnuts 

figs, raisins, dates, nuts 

peanuts, raisins 

orange marmalade, nuts 

prunes, walnuts, lemon juice 

Fig Paste 

f * ^ > cook to a paste r .* ,, 

i c. water J ^ jmce \ lemon 

Orange Honey 
I c. sugar 1 

i c. water \ boil to thread stage 

i c. orange juice J 

add 
i c. orange peel chopped i tsp. vanilla 

Bring to boiling point and cool 



Digitized by 



Google 



2S8 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Fancy Sandwiches 
RoUed 

Remove crusts from very fresh loaf of sandwich bread. Remove 
long slice of bread, spread with butter and a mixture of celery, green 
and red pepper, and mayonnaise. Roll like jelly roll. Cut across in 
J-inch slices. 

Club 

toasted bread lettuce 

chicken broiled bacon 

tomato mayonnaise 

Fairmont 

Spread three oblongs of bread with butter on both sides, 2 slices 
on one side. Put together with mixture of green and red peppers, 
celery, and mayonnaise. Wrap in cheesecloth and press under a 
weight. Slice. 

Spanish 

2 anchovies 2 pickles 

I piece parsley 2 tbsp. oil 

Poimd and add : 

I tsp. prepared mustard 2 tbsp. oil 

yolks 2 hard-boiled eggs whites 2 hard-boiled eggs 

Checkers 

Cut three thick slices each white and brown bread. Spread one 
white with butter and cream cheese and place brown on it. Spread 
this slice and place a white slice on it. 

Repeat this process, starting with a brown slice. 

Put each in cheesecloth under weights. Trim and cut each in 3J- 
inch slices. Spread with butter and put together so that a white 
block alternates with a brown. Press again and slice thin. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



259 



FOOD VALUES 
Vegetable Salad with Mayonnaise Dressing 



Matebial 



I 

1^ 



II 



31 



S a 

SSI 

£0 



Peas . . . 
Beans . . 
Cauliflower 
Lettuce 
Mayonnaise 
Total . . 
1 co-Calorie 
Portion . 



3 tbsp. 

2 tbsp. 
I tbsp. 

3 leaves 
I tb^ 



40. 

30.S 

33.6 

31.7 

14.4 



1.44 
.33 
.42 
.38 
•SI 



^.008 
.03 
.118 

•09s 
4.41 



3.92 
IIS 
l.I 
.91 



33 

6 

7 

6 

100 



.006 
.006 
.008 
.009 
oo9Si 



.007 

.01 

.038 

.CIS 

•oos 



•OS 2 
.017 
.031 
.028 
.031. 



6 tbsp. 
4i tbsp. 



140.2 
98.9 



3.08 



2.17 



4.66 
3.28 



7.08 



4.99 



141 



.0392 



07s 



.159 



,0276 .0052 



.0003 
.0003 



.0003 
.0003 



.0007 





Romaine or Lettuce Salad 








Olive oil . . 
Vinegar . . 
Mustard . . 
Pepper and salt 


1 head 
S tbsp. 

2 tbsp. 
I tsp. 
itsp. 


226.2 

SS'S 

29.3 

2.8 

2.6 


2.71 


.68 
555 


6.56 


43 
Soo 


.06 

.049 

.003 

.003 

•oos 


.III 
.007 


.202 
.009 


.OC2 
.0001 


Total . . . 

IOC-Calorie 
Portion 1 


15 leaves 

ic. 

dressing 

3 leaves 

itbsp. 

dressing 


316.4 
6C.78 


2.71 
•5 


S6.18 
10.38 


6.56 
1. 21 


543 

ICC 


.12 

.C22 


.1x8 
.C2C 


.211 
.038 


.CC2I 
.0004 



Wholewheat Bread and Cheese Sandwich 



Loaf bread 






















(trimmed) . 


I 


231.4 


22.4s 


2.08 


115.11 


569 


.035 


.062 


.426 


.0017 


Butter . . . 


si tb^. 


99.2 


•99 


84.32 




763 


.079 


.022 


.0305 




Cream cheese . 


ipkg. 


62.3 


161.36 


20.99 


i.S 


26c 


.037 


.78 


1.04 


.0003 


Total . . . 


24 


392.9 


184.8 


107.39 


116.61 


1592 


.151 


.864 


1.4965 


.0020 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion . . 


li 


24.36 


11.46 


6.66 


7.32 


ICC 


.009 


.0318 


.0897 


.0001 



Notice that in the sandwich the butter furnished more than half of the 
total energy value (calories), in the vegetable salad the oil of the mayonnaise 
furnished two-thirds of the calories, and in the lettuce salad the oil used as 
dressing furnished over ten times as much energy as the lettuce itself. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER XVm 
SALAD DRESSINGS 

EXPERIMENTS WITH OILS 

194. — o. Prepare French dressing, using recipe H given below 
(pp. 261-262). 

b. Again use this recipe, substituting for the vinegar the 

following: 

tarragon vinegar 

wine vinegar 

lemon juice 

i lemon juice, J orange juice 

grapefruit juice 

pineapple juice 

c. Again use this recipe, substituting for the olive oil the 

following oils : 

i olive oil, J cottonseed 

cottonseed 

peanut 

com 

melted butter 

Note : The instructor may further test the above oils by using various fruit 
acids with each, as some fruit acids blend well with the olive oil 
substitutes. 

196. — o. Prepare mayonnaise dressing, using the recipe below 
(p. 263). 

b. Prepare other mixtures, substituting in turn the following : 

i cottonseed, f olive oil 
i cottonseed, J olive oil 
J cottonseed, J olive oil 
cottonseed oil (Wesson) 
260 



Digitized by 



Google 



SALAD DRESSINGS 261 

i peanut oil, ^ olive oil 
peanut oil 

J com oil, i olive oil 
i com oil, f olive oil 
com oil 

196. — a. Prepare mayonnaise dressing by the usual method, sub- 
stituting for the egg yolks, egg yolks which have been hard cooked. 
Compare with the dressing prepared from the imcooked egg yolks. 

b. Reduce the number of egg yolks J and prepare mayon- 
naise by the usual recipe. Add to this a partly stiffened gelatin 
mixture of i c. water, i tsp. lemon juice, 2 tsp. gelatin. Beat the 
mixture thoroughly and place in the ice box for twenty-four hours. 

197. — Prepare mayonnaise as in 196, 6, but instead of adding 
gelatin mixture add i tbsp. boiling water and beat it thoroughly. 
Allow this to remain in ice box twenty-four hours. Compare with 
that in 196, b. 

Summarize the results of Expts. 194-197: 

a. From the standpoint of the chemical and physical proper- 
ties of the substances used and their behavior under the treatment to 
which they were subjected. 

b. With reference to the feasibility of making salad dress- 
ings from a wide variety of materials. 

The refined cottonseed, com (maize), peanut, and olive oils of 
conmierce are practically identical in food value. The substitution 
of one of the cheaper oils for olive oil in any of the following recipes 
will not alter the food value of the product. 

Salad Dressings 

French Dressing I 

Ingredtents : 

J tsp. salt 2 tbsp. vinegar (cider) 

i tsp. pepper 4 tbsp. olive oil 

Method : 

Mix ingredients an^ stir until well blended. Some prefer the 
addition of a few drops of onion juice. French dressing is more easily 
prepared and more commonly used than anv other dressing. 



Digitized by 



Google 



262 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients: 

\ tsp. salt 
J tsp. pepper 

Method: 
Proceed as above. 



French Dressing n 



I tbsp. vinegar 
3 tbsp. olive oil 



Spanish Dressing 



Ingredients: 

I tsp. salt 

} tsp. paprika 

I tbsp. horseradish 

Method: 
Mix all ingredients and blend thoroughly. Serve on green salad. 



2 tbsp. chili sauce 
I tbsp. vinegar 

3 tbsp. olive oil 



Ingredients: 

i tbsp. salt 
J tbsp. mustard 
J tbsp. sugar 



Cream Dressing 



I egg slightly beaten 
2j tbsp. melted butter 
f c. cream 
i c. vinegar 
Method: 

Mix ingredients in order given, adding vinegar very slowly. Cook 
over boiling water, stirring constantly imtil mixture thickens, strain 
and cool. 



Ingredients: 

J tbsp. salt 
I tsp. mustard 
cayenne 
i c. vinegar 



Boiled Dressing 



J tbsp. flour 

yolks 2 eggs 

I J tbsp. melted butter 

f c. milk 



Method: 

Mix dry ingredients, add yolks of eggs sjightly beaten, butter, 
milk, and vinegar very slowly. Cook over boiling water, stirring 
constantly imtil mixture thickens. Strain and cool. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SALAD DRESSINGS 



263 



Mayonnaise Dressing 



2 tbsp. lemon juice 
2 tbsp. vinegar 
ij c. olive oil 



IngredietUs: 

I tsp. salt 
cayenne 
yolks 2 eggs 

Method: 

Mix dry ingredients, add egg yolks, and when well mixed, add J tea- 
spoon vinegar. Add oil gradually, drop by drop at first, and stir con- 
stantly. As* mixture thickens, thin with vinegar or lemon juice. 
Add oil and acid alternately imtil all is used, stirring or beating 
constantly. If oil is added too rapidly, dressing will have a curdled 
appearance. A smooth consistency may be restored by taking yolk 
of another egg and adding curdled mixture slowly to it. It is 
desirable to have bowl containing mixture placed in a larger bowl 
of crushed ice. i teaspoon powdered sugar may be added to the 
dressing if the flavor is desired. 



FOOD VALUES 
Mayonnaise 



Material 



ii 



II 



B«_ 



Egg yolks . 
Vinegar 
oa . . . 
Mustard . 
Salt . . . 

Total . . 

100-Calorie 

Portion . 



I tbsp. 

itsp. 
i tsp. 



45-6 

17.S 

1353 

3 



7.16 

1 



16.18 
1 



135-3 



i6s 

1 

I3l8 



.0165 

.001 

.11931 



083 



•449 



.0038 



I c. 
I tbsp. 



200.4 
14.48 



7.16 
.512 



1S1.48 
4.41 



1383 
100 



1363 
.009 



,083 
cos 



.449 
.031 



.0038 
.0003 



1 The small amounts of food substances in the vinegar are considered negligible. 



Digitized by 



Google 



264 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



French Dressing 



Material 









ll 



gal 



Olive oil . 
Vinegar 
Salt . . . 
Pepper . . 
Paprika 

Total . . 

I co-Calorie 

Portion . 



6 tbsp. 
2 tbsp. 



68 
38 



68 
1 



612 
1 



.0588 
.003 



he. 
if tbsp. 



106 
17.3 



68 
II 



612 
100 



.0618 
.0105 



Boiled Dressing 



Butter . . . 


I tsp. 


5.6 


.05 


4.76 




43 


.0052 


.0012 


.0017 




Sugar . . . 


I tsp. 


5-7 






5-7 


22 


.0006 








Flour . . . 


I tsp. 


5-5 


.61 


•COS 


4.1 1 


19 


.0003 


.0013 


.0094 


.0001 


Egg yolks . . 


2 


36.6 


S-74 


12.18 




133 


.0366 


.066 


•35 


.003 


Cream . . . 


I tbsp. 


18.1 


.39 


7.24 


.54 


69 


.008 


.04 


.068 


.0001 


Vinegar . . 


2 tbsp. 








1 


1 


.OQ3 








Total . . . 


9 tbsp. 


71.S 


6.79 


24.18 


10.35 


286 


.0537 


.1085 


.4291 


.0031 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion . . 


3 tbsp. 


24-95 


2.37 


3.61 


3.61 


100 


.0177 


.037 


.1501 


.0010 



References 
Oils 

Cotton Seed and its Products. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Farmers' Bulletin 36. 

Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

Moore. Experiments with Edible Oils. Arkansas Agricultural 
Experiment Station, Bulletin 78 (1903). 

^ The small amounts of food substances in the vinegar are considered negligible. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SALAD DRESSINGS 265 

Sherman. Food Products. 

Sherman. Organic Analysis. 

Simmons and Mitchell. Edible Fats and Oils. 

ToLMAN and Munson. Olive Oil and its Substitutes. United 

States Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 77 (1902). 
Walker. Coconuts and Coconut Oil; Philippine Journal of Science, 

Vol. I, pages 58-117 (1906). 
Wiley. Foods and their Adtdterations. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER XIX 

DESSERTS 

Steamed Puddings 
General Rides, 

Mix as cake. Do not sift graham or entire wheat flour. Molds 
and covers should be well greased. The length of time for steaming 
depends on the size of pudding ; i-6 hours. After steaming, remove 
cover and place in hot oven a minute to dry. Remove from tin and 
serve with a hard or liquid sauce. 



Ingredients: 

J c. meal 
J c. flour 
I tsp. salt 
I tsp. soda 



Steamed Indian Pudding 



J c. suet 
\ c. molasses 
J c. sour mOk 
I c. raisins 



Method : 

Sift dry ingredients and add to the suet mixed with molasses and 
milk. Add the fruit, beat well, and steam. 



Ingredients : 

6 tbsp. butter 
I c. molasses 
I c. milk 
3J c. flour 
I tsp. soda 



Date Pudding 



266 



} tsp. salt 

i tsp. dove 

\ tsp. allspice 

J tsp. nutmeg 

J lb. dates — chopped 



Digitized by 



Google 



DESSERTS 



267 



Ingredients: 



Fig Pudding 



i lb. suet 

J lb. figs — chopped 

2J c. bread crumbs 



i c. milk 
2 eggs 
I c. sugar 



Ingredients: 



I c. suet 
I c. molasses 
I c. milk 
3 c. flour 
I tsp. soda 
i^ tsp. salt 



Hunters' Pudding 



i tsp. cloves 
i tsp. mace 
i tsp. allspice 

1 tsp. cimiamon 
ij c. raisins 

2 tbsp. flour 



Ingredients : 



Fruit Pudding (Plum) 



I lb. currants 

I lb. raisins 

i lb. citron 

i lb. orange peel 

i lb. lemon peel 

I lb. brown sugar 

I lb. suet 

I lb. bread crumbs 



I tsp. salt 

I c. flour 

4 tsp. cinnamon 

I tsp. nutmeg 

I tsp. allspice 

8 eggs 

I c. brandy 

I c. sheny 



juice and rind i lemon 



Ingredients : 

i c. butter 
I c. sugar 
i c. milk 

Individual molds. 



Snow Balls 



Serve with jam. 



2} c. flour 

3J tsp. baking powder 

whites 4 eggs 



Digitized by 



Google 



268 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Pudding Sauces 
Classification: 

Cold. A butter foundation using granulated, brown, or confec- 
tioners' sugar. 

Hot. A foundation of water or fruit juice thickened with ^gs, 
sago, arrowroot, cornstarch, or flour. 

Flavors : 
The following may be used as flavoring : 

fresh fruit vanilla 

fruit flavors cooking brandy 

spices 

Sauces for Puddings 

Hard Sauce 

IngredietUs : 

i c. butter ij tsp. vanilla or 

I c. powdered sugar J tsp. nutm^ 

Method : 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, beating until light and creamy. 
Add flavoring. Chill thoroughly before serving. 

Sterling Sauce 

Ingredients: 

i c. butter i tsp. vanilla or lemon 

I c. brown sugar or soft maple sugar 4 tbsp. cream 

Lemon Sauce 
Ingredients: 

1 c. sugar 2 c. boiling water 

2 tbsp. flour I lemon, juice and rind 

2 tbsp. butter 
Method: 

Mix sugar and flour, add water slowly and boil 15 minutes, stirring 
occasionally. When ready to serve, add butter and lemon. 



Digitized by 



Google 



DESSERTS 269 

Cream Sauce 
IngredietUs: 

I egg i c. thick cream 

1 c. powdered sugar i c. milk 

i tsp. vanilla 
Method: 

Beat white of egg until stiff; add well-beaten yolk and sugar. 
Dilute cream with milk and whip. Combine mixtures and flavor. 

Vanilla Sauce 

Ingredients : 

2 c. boiling water i c. butter , 

1 tsp. salt I c. sugar 

2 tbsp. cornstarch i egg 

I tsp. vanilla 
Method: 

Combine cornstarch and salt, mix with a little cold water, and add 
to the boiling water. Boil 5 minutes, stirring constantly. Cream 
the butter and sugar, add beaten egg and vanilla. Add to first mix- 
ture. Beat well. 

Sabayon Sauce 

Ingredients : 

grated rind and juice i lemon J c. sugar 

J c. orange juice 2 eggs 

Method: 

Mix lemon, orange juice, sugar, and yolks of eggs ; stir vigorously 
over fire until it thickens, using a wire whisk or perforated spoon; 
pour on to whites of eggs beaten stiff ; serve hot. 

Frozen Desserts 

Frozen desserts may well be included more frequently in 
planning meals for the family dietary. They are refreshing, 
give a great opportunity for variety, and when made in the 
home are very economical. 



Digitized by 



Google 



270 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

The selling price of commercial ice cream must be consider- 
ably higher than the cost of the ingredients because of the 
perishable nature of the product and the uncertainty of 
the demand. Homemade ice cream is therefore usually 
much cheaper than conmiercial — with the added advantage 
of greater certainty as to the quality of the materials 
used. 

Ice cream is a fairly concentrated food material, while an 
ice is essentially a frozen beverage and is chiefly valuable for 
the fruit juices it contains. Frozen mixtures are cooling and 
refreshing, and when made in the home are economical desserts. 

EXPERIMENTS 

198. — Freezing mixtxu-es : 

The usual proportions of ice and salt for freezing mixtiu'es ai'e as 
follows : 

a. I part ice, i part salt 

b. 2 parts ice, i part salt 

c. 3 parts ice, i part salt 

d. 4 parts ice, i part salt 

Make each of these mixtures and determine as in a physics labora- 
tory experiment the minimum temperature reached by each. 

199. — a. Prepare one recipe each of lemon ice, plain ice cream, 
and caramel cream. 

h. Divide each recipe into four equal parts. A, B, C, D. 

c. Freeze as follows ; record temperature of freezing mix- 
tures throughout the experiment. Record temperature of frozen 
product. 

A. frozen by 198, a. 

B. frozen by 198, h. 

C. frozen by 198, c. 

D. frozen by 198, d. 

Note : In each case turn the freezer evenly and quickly until mixtures are 
frozen, or until you are satisfied mixtures will not freeze. 



Digitized by 



Google 



DESSERTS 271 

d. Compare results. Note time of freezing, consistency of 
product, fineness of grain, flavor. 

200. — Prepare one recipe of lemon ice. Divide into four parts ; 
use the freezing mixture most successful in 199, c, and freeze the ice 
as follows : 

a. Let freeze without stirring 

h. Stir occasionally 

c. Stir constantly very fast 

Compare results. What is the difference in consistency and to 
what due? 

201. — Use the fourth part of the lemon ice prepared in 200, 
and add to it a small amoimt of gelatin (see rule for lemon 
jelly and add corresponding amoimt of gelatin to liquid). Freeze 
ice by stirring constantly and compare the result with the ices 
previously made. Of what value is gelatin in a frozen mixture? 
Could whites of eggs be used? 

Note : Would it be possible to use sugar in place of salt in a freezing mix- 
ture? 

202. — Prepare i c. of lemon ice, put in a pint jar and freeze, using 
sugar instead of salt. Why does the sugar lower the temperature 
and cause the lemon ice to freeze? 

Note : These experiments are very enlightening and interesting if glass 
containers for the frozen mixture are used. Preserving jars, 
cream jars, or jelly glasses serve the purpose. 

203. — a. Prepare one " quantity " of ice cream. Divide into four 
equal parts. A, B, C, D. 

h. Freeze and pack A in a freezer having a wooden con- 
tainer for the ice. 

c. Freeze and pack B in a freezer having a galvanized iron 
container. 

J. Freeze and pack C in a glass jar. 

e. Freeze D in any freezer but pack in the fireless cooker. 
Allow all to stand 4 hours. Compare as to conductivity of containers. 



Digitized by 



Google 



272 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Fillers in Ice Cream 

a. Kinds 

1. Starchy, wheat, rice, and cornstarch. 

2. Egg, used in French ice cream. 

b. Purposes 

1. Gives firmer body. 

2. Better standing-up qualities. 

c. Advantages 

1. Increases keeping qualities. 

2. Improves texture. 

d. Disadvantages 

1. Egg and starchy fillers have to be cooked. 

2. Cannot be kept in stock form. 

3. In excess gives soggy cream. 

4. In excess reduces the swell. 

Binders in Ice Cream 

a. Kinds 

1 . Gelatin — animal origin. Dissolved in boiling water or milk 
and added at once. 

2. Gum tragacanth — vegetable origin. Is replacing gelatin. 

b. Purpose — to bind the mixture and improve texture. 

c. Advantages 

1. Prevents grainy texture. 

2. Keeps water from forming cr)rstals. 

d. Disadvantages 

1. Slight inferiority of gelatin may be disguised by other in- 
gredients. 

2. Allows a warmer holding temperature, which permits more 
rapid deterioration. 

Ice Cream Powders 

Powdered gelatin and gum tragacanth to which is added 2-3 times 
its weight in sugar. 



Digitized by 



Google 



DESSERTS 273 

Classification of Frozen Desserts 

1. Ices. Fniit juices, diluted and sweetened. 

a. Sherbet. Ice containing gelatin or egg whites. 

b. Milk sherbet. Fruit juices and milk, sweetened. 

c. Frappe. Partly frozen ices. 

d. Punch. Sherbet highly flavored with liquid, fruit juices, or 
spice. 

e. Souffle. Sherbet containing the whole egg. 

2. Ice Cream 

a, Philadelphia.* Cream, flavored and sweetened. 

b. French.* Cream, custard, flavored and sweetened. 

3. Parfait. Cream, sugar, and egg whites with or without fruits, 
nuts, or flavorings. 

4. Moiisse, Frozen whipped cream, sweetened and flavored. 

5. Pudding. Cream, custard, fruit, and nuts highly flavored. 

6. Lacto. Sour, skimmed, or whole milk, eg^s and sugar, flavored. 

7. Junket. Frozen junket. 

Ice Creams and Ices 
General Rules for Freezing. 

Scald the can, cover, and dasher of freezer before using them. 
Adjust the can carefully in the tub before packing. 
Pack freezer up to lower edge of cover, pour in mixture, readjust 
and pack to completely cover the can. 
For freezing, use : 

3 parts finely chopped ice 
I part rock salt 

For packing after freezing, use : 

4 parts ice 

I part rock salt 

1 These terms are not always used in the sense here given. By some, "Philadel- 
phia ice cream" is imderstood to mean one whose ingredients have been cooked 
before freezing. 



Digitized by 



Google 



274 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

For freezing cream, the crank should be turned slowly and steadily. 

When mixture is frozen, remove ice and salt from top of can, wipe 
cover and top, uncover and carefully remove dasher. Cover and 
put a stopper in cover. Drain off all the water which has collected 
in the tub during freezing; repack with ice and salt (4-1), cover 
with something heavy and allow to stand several hours to ripen. 



Vanilla Ice Cream 

Ingredients : 

I qt. cream f c. sugar 

I tsp. vanilla 
Method: 

Scald I the cream, add the sugar, remainder of cream and vanilla. 
Cool and freeze according to directions. 



Chocolate Sauce 

Ingredients : 

I oz. chocolate i tbsp. butter 

I c. sugar J c. water 

I tsp. vanilla 
Method : 

Melt chocolate, add butter, sugar, water. Boil 15 mmutes, cool, 
and add vanilla. 

Strawberry Ice Cream 

Ingredients: 

I qt. berries 2 c. sugar 

I qt. cream 
Method: 

Mash berries, add sugar and let stand i hour. Rub through a 
colander or fine strainer. Add the cream whipped. 



Frozen Custard I 

Ingredients : 

2 c. milk I tbsp. vanilla 

I c. sugar I pt. cream 

3 eggs 



Digitized by 



Google 



DESSERTS 275 

Frozen Custard n 
Ingredients: 

2 c. scalded milk } tsp. salt 

1 c. sugar I qt. thin cream 
5 eggs 2 tbsp. vanilla 

Method: 

Make' a custard of first four ingredients. Strain, cool, add cream 
and vanilla. Freeze. 

Caramel Ice Cream I 

Ingredients : 

2 c. milk 4 yolks 

1 c. sugar § c. sugar, caramelized 
J c. flour I qt. cream 

Method: 

Cook first three ingredients 20 minutes in double boiler, add yolks 
and cook 2 minutes. Add caramel, strain, cool, and add cream. 

Caramel Ice Cream n 

Ingredients : 

2 c. scalded milk i c. sugar 

i c. sugar J c. boiling water 

3 eggs I qt. thin cream 
i tsp. salt 2 tsp. vanilla 

Method: 

Make a custard of first four ingredients. Strain and cool. Cara- 
melize the I c. sugar and add the boiling water to it. Combine mix- 
tures, add cream and vanilla. Freeze. When half frozen, add i c. 
chopped nuts and raisins. 

Prune Ice Cream 

Ingredients: 

I c. prunes i c. sugar 

li c. water 4 tbsp. lemon juice 

ij c. cream (scalded) J tsp. salt 



Digitized by 



Google 



276 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FQODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Prepare the prunes for cooking and boil them in one and one half 
cups water until the pulp is soft. Rub the pulp through a strainer, 
add the sugar, lemon juice, salt, and scalded cream. 

Lacto Ice Cream 

Ingredients: 

I qt. sour milk i J c. sugar 

\ c. grape juice J c. lemon juice 
I egg 
Method: 

Beat the eggs in the grape juice imtil the liquid is somewhat 
thickened. Add this to the sour milk, to which has been added the 
sugar and lemon juice. 

Chocolate Ice Cream 

Ingredients: 

I c. water 2 oz. chocolate 

I c. sugar I qt. cream 

I tbsp. vanilla 
Method: 

Melt chocolate over hot water, add hot water and boil 5 minutes. 
Add salt and cool. Add cream and vanilla. 

Coffee Ice Cream 

Ingredients : ^ 

\ c. coffee f c. boiling water 

Method : 

Make boiled coffee, add to recipe of plain frozen custard. Omit 
vanilla. 

Sherbets 

Milk Sherbet 
Ingredients: 

I qt. milk or cream 2 c. sugar 

\ c. lemon juice rind i lemon 



Digitized by 



Google 



DESSERTS 277 



Method: 
Let lemon juice and sugar stand i l^our. Add milk. 



Orange Sherbet 

Ingredients : 

I qt. milk or cream ij c. sugar 

3 tbsp. lemon juice i c. orange juice 



Pineapple Sherbet 

Ingredients: 

I qt. milk or cream if c. sugar 

5 tbsp. lemon juice f c. orange juice 

I pineapple, grated 



Combination Sherbet 

Ingredients: 

4 c. water pulp of 2 oranges 

2 c. sugar pulp of 2 lemons 

pulp of 2 bananas 



Ices 

Lemon Ice 

Ingredients : 

4 c. water 2 c. sugar 

f c. lemon juice 
Method: 

Make a sirup by boiling sugar and water 5 minutes, add lemon 
juice, cool, strain, and freeze. 



Orange Ice 

Ingredients: 

4 c. water grated rind of 2 oranges 

2 c. sugar 2 c. orange juice 

J c. lemon juice 



Digitized by 



Google 



278 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Frozen Grape Juice 
Follow recipe for orange ice, using 2 c. grape juice instead of orange. 



Frozen Apricots or Peaches 



IngredietUs: 

I qt. can fruit 1} c. sugar 

water 
Methods- 
Dram fruit and cut in small pieces. To the sirup, add enough 
water to make 4 cups, and cook with sugar 5 minutes ; strain, add 
fruit, cool, and freeze. 



Ingredients : 

4 c. water 
2 c. water 



Pineapple Ice 

juice 2 lemons 
juice 2 oranges 
i§ pineapples, grated 



Ingredients : 

4 c. water 
ij c. sugar 

Ingredients: 

4 c. water 
I c. sugar 

Ingredients: 

4 c. water 



Ingredients: 

4 c. water 
li c. sugar 



Strawberry Ice 



2 c. strawberry juice 
2 tbsp. lemon juice 



Raspberry Ice 



2 c. raspberry juice 
juice J lemon 



Currant Ice 



ij c. sugar 
Currant and Raspberry 



2 c. currant juice 



f c. raspberry juice 
If c. currant juice 



Digitized by 



Google 



Ingredients: 

4 c. water 
2 c. sugar 

Ingredients: 

4 c. water 
I c. sugar 
J c. lemon juice 



DESSERTS 
Mint Ice 

Ginger Ice 



279 



juice 2 lemons 

leaves of 12 stalks of mint 



i lb. Canton ginger cut in 

pieces 
§ c. orange juice 



Ingredients: 

2 C. rnilly 

2 eggs 

6 tbsp. flour 
I c. sugar 
I tsp. vanilla 



Puddings 
Frozen Pudding 



J tsp. salt 

1 qt. cream 

2 tbsp. rum 
4 tbsp. madeira 
I tbsp. brandy 

I c. maraschino cherries 
Method: 

Cook flour and milk 20 minutes in a double boiler, stirring until it 
thickens. Pour over the eggs and sugar. Return to double boiler 
and cook a little longer, stirring constantly. Strain, cool, and add 
remaining ingredients. 



Ingredients : 

I c. sugar 
I c. chestnuts 
I c. boiling water 
J lb. candied fruit 



Nesselrode Pudding 



I c. almonds shelled 
I c. cream 

I c. canned pineapple 
yolks 3 eggs 

i tbsp. vanilla 

2 tbsp. sherry 
Method: 

Shell chestnuts, remove from skin, boil until soft and press through 
a colander. Blanch, dry, and pound almonds. Add fruit cut in 



Digitized by 



Google 



28o LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

small pieces. Boil sugar and water 15 minutes, and poiu: over the 
well-beaten yolks. Cook in a double boiler until egg thickens. 
Cool, beating constantly. Add other ingredients. After freezing let 
ripen 4-5 hours. 

Sauce for Nesselrode Pudding 

IngredietUs: 

3 egg yolks i J c. whipped cream 

3 tbsp. powdered sugar § tsp. vanilla 

Method : 

Beat eggs imtil thick, add sugar and beat again. Stir in a double 
boiler imtil it thickens slightly. Pour into a bowl and beat imtil 
creamy. Add flavoring and cream ; i tbsp. brandy or wine may be 
added. 

Baked Alaska 

Turn I qt. brick Vanilla Ice Cream out on an oblong sponge cake. 
Cover with a meringue made of 4 whites of eggs. Brown in a very 
hot oven. Place the cake on a paper, on a board, before turning out 
the ice cream. 

Ice Cream Molds 

Freeze the cream very hard. Pack solidly into the mold, cover 
and wrap with several thicknesses of paper. Tie with strong cord 
and pack. 

Mousses 

Coffee Mousse 

Ingredients: 

I pt. cream i c. black coffee 

i c. powdered sugar i tsp. salt 

Method: 

Whip the cream, add sugar and coffee, turn mixture into a mold, 
pack in ice and salt, and let stand five hours. 



Digitized by 



Google 



DESSERTS 281 

Chocolate Mousse 
Substitute 4 oz. melted chocolate for coffee in Coffee Mousse. 

Strawberry Mousse 
Substitute 2 c. mashed strawberries for coffee. 

Fruit Mousses 

Mix 2 c. of any fruit pulp, with powdered sugar to sweeten, with 
the whip from one pint cream. A small amoimt of lemon juice 
brings out the flavor of other fruits. 

Grape Juice Mousse 

Substitute i c. grape jviice for coffee in the above direction for 
Coffee Mousse. 

Parfaits 

Silver Parfait 

Ingredients : 

I c. sugar 3 egg whites 

I c. water i pt. cream 

flavoring 

Method: 

Boil sugar and water until it threads. Pour on to the beaten whites 
of eggs, add whip from cream, flavoring, pack in ice and salt, and 
let stand 4 hours. 

Golden Parfait 

Ingredients : 

I c. sugar 6 egg yolks 

J c. water i pt. cream 



Digitized by 



Google 



282 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

^ Score Cards 

Sherbets and Ices 

Texture 20 

Consistency (10) 

Smoothness (10) 

Color S 

Degree of freezing 10 

Freedom from water crystals 5 

Flavors 60 

Retained flavor (15) 

Imperceptibility of binder (35) 

Delicacy (10) 

100 



Philadelphia Ice Cream 

Texture 20 

Color 5 

Flavor 60 

Degree of freezing 15 

100 

Custard Ice Cream 

Texture 20 

Consistency (5) 

Smoothness (10) 

Condition of solid ingredients (5) 

Color 5 

Flavor 60 

Delicacy (30) 

Imperceptibility of filler (30) 

Degree of freezing 15 

100 



Digitized by 



Google 



DESSERTS 



283 



FOOD VALUES 
Vanilla Ice Cream 



Matekial 



u 



i 



o 

^3 



If 



Cream . . . 
Sugar . . . 
Vanilla . . . 

Total, cooked 
loo-Calorie 
Portion . . 



I c. 
3 tbsp. 
li tsp. 



246.1 

38.4 

3.3 



S.41 



98.44 



7.38 
38.4 



937 
153 



125 

0056 
0023 



.65 



.93 



lie. 
2 tbsp. 



270.4 
24.6 



5.41 
.49 



98.44 
8.95 



45.78 
4.16 



1090 
100 



.1329 
,012 



.65 
.059 



.93 
.084 



.0009 



.0009 
.0001 



Milk Sherbet 



Sugar . . . 


6 tbsp. 


78.6 






78.6 


314 


.0112 








Milk . . . 


ic. 


115.7 


3.82 


4.63 


5-79 


80 


.025 


.19 


.24 


.0002 


Cream . . . 


ic. 


II3-7 


2.5 


45.48 


3.41 


433 


.0625 


.3 


•43 


.0004 


Lemon juice . 


3 tbsp. 


39.9 






3.91 


16 


.0167 


.012 


.009 




Total . . . 


lie. 


347.9 


6.32 


50.11 


91.71 


843 


.1154 


.502 


.679 


.0000 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion . . 


2 tbsp. 


41.26 


4.89 


5.94 


10.88 


100 


.0136 


.06 


.081 


.0001 



References 
Ice Cream 

Alexander. Effect of Gelatin in IceC ream. Zeitschrift ftir Chemie 
und Industrie der KoUoide, vol. 5, pages 101-103 (1909). 

Sherman. Food Products. 

Washburn. Principles and Practice of Ice-Cream Making. Ver- 
mont Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 155. 

Wiley. Ice Cream. United States Public Health Service, Hygienic 
Laboratory, Bulletin 56, pages 249-312 (1909). 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER XX 
SUGAR AND CANDY 

Cane sugar is found in the fruits and juices of many plants 
but the principal source is the sugar cane and the sugar beet. 
Cane sugar is made, however, from the maple and palm trees. 
By-products of the sugar made from cane are brown sugar and 
molasses. Com sirup is made from com and is lighter in color 
than molasses. It cannot be made to take the hard ball st^ige 
as molasses will, hence is not suitable for pulled candies or 
butterscotch, but for softer creams or stirred candies it is very 
acceptable. Corn sirup may be used for taffy by the addition 
of granulated sugar. Maple sirup is made from the sap of 
the maple tree and is essentially an American product. Maple 
sugar is made from the maple sirup and is sold as commonly 
as the sirup. Honey is made from the sugar of flowers by bees, 
and that obtained from clover is considered the finest. Honey 
made early in the summer is sweeter than that made later, 
when a bitter flavor (attributed to goldenrod) is apt to be im- 
parted. 

(See Sherman's Food Products, pages 397-444, for descrip- 
tion of sugar industries, sirups, and confectionery.) 

The sole nutritive function of the sugars is to serve as fuel, 
and the amount which can wisely be eaten is limited because of 
its tendency to irritate the stomach either directly or through 
fermentation. 

a84 



Digitized by 



Google 



SUGAR AND CANDY 285 

EXPERIMENTS 
Sugar 

Sirups — of use in frozen desserts and candy making. 

Various degrees of densities of sirups are recognized with the ther- 
mometer or by testing in cold water for the soft ball, hard ball, crack, 
hard crack, and caramel stage. 

204. — Boil 2 c. sugar in J c. water. Note changes in boiling point 
as the solution becomes more condensed. When the thermometer 
registers various degrees, remove sirup from burner and test in cold 
water for the corresponding stage. 

"softbaU," . . . . **F. . . °C. 

" hard baU," . '. . . ^T. . . ^'C. 

"crack," ^'F. . . ^'C. 

"hard crack," . . . ^T. . . °C. 

"barley," ^T. . . °C. 

"caramel," . . . . ^T. . . ^'C. 

a. Note the density of each stage, together with its cor- 
responding temperature. 

b. Prepare a candy at each stage. 

c. What kinds of candy is each suitable for? 

d. In what ways could sirups prepared at the various tem- 
peratures be used ? 

e. What sirup is best for : 

ice? 

sherbet ? 
f rapp6 ? 

206. — Repeat Expt. 204, using the following : 

a. Powdered sugar 

b. Confectioners' sugar 

c. Brown sugar 

d. Molasses 

e. Maple sugar 

/. What are the results? Conclusions? 



Digitized by 



Google 



286 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

206. — BoU 2 c. sugar in § c. water to which J tsp. cream of tartar 
has been added. Cany through the various stages. 

Turn out part of the sirup at each stage and see if you can beat or 
pull it. 

207. — a. Repeat Expt. 206, using vinegar (i tbsp.) and lemon 
juice (2 tbsp.). Compare results with 204 and 205. 

h. Of what use are cream of tartar, vinegar, or lemon 
juice? 

208. — Prepare molasses candy, boiling it to the hard crack stage. 
Just before tiuning sir^p out to cool, add \ tsp. soda. Note result 
in sirup and in candy when pulled. 



Fondant 

IngredietUs: 

2 c. granulated sugar i c. cold water 

Meihod: 

Mix the sugar and water together in a saucepan. Place saucepan 
over heat and stir the contents with a wooden spoon until the sugar 
is dissolved. Allow the sirup to boil gently without further stirring 
until the " soft ball " stage is reached. Turn sirup on to a greased 
platter and let it remain imdisturbed until a thin film has formed 
over the surface. When this has formed, with a wooden spoon stir 
the sirup imtil it becomes white and creamy. If suf&ciently stiff 
turn the fondant on to, a marble or kneading board and make per- 
fectly smooth. The fondant will work up better if allowed to re- 
main in the ice box overnight, but if necessary, it can be made up 
at once. 

Precautions: 

1. Scald the saucepan before using for boiling fondant, lest any 
odor of previous cooking appear in the fondant. 

2. Do not stir the sirup after the sugar is melted. (Why?) 

3. Do not allow the sirup to boil vigorously. If the sirup boils 
vigorously, crystals of sugar will be deposited in thick masses on the 
sides of the saucepan and are likely to mix with the sirup and appear 



Digitized by 



Google 



SUGAR AND CANDY 287 

in the final product. A damp cheesecloth on a fork used to remove 
the crystals as fast as formed on the sides of the saucepan will help to 
prevent crystals from mixing with the sirup. 

4. When testing the sirup always remove the saucepan from the 
burnet so that if the proper stage is reached it will not proceed to the 
" hard ball " stage and so become too crystalline. 

5. Have the platter ready greased before the sirup is to be poured 
out. 

6. Do not scrape the last of the sirup from the pan, as it will 
appear as a hard sugary mass in the fondant. 

7. Use a minimim(i amoimt of butter with which to grease the 
platter. 

8. Wash the hands with cold water just before kneading the 
fondant. 

9. Cover the fondant with paraffin paper when putting it away to 
stand overnight. 

10. If fondant is quite soft when done, do not leave it in the ice 
box — a Cupboard is better — but if quite stiff put it in the ice box 
to stand overnight and it will be easier to handle. 

Fondant may be used as follows : 

Creams Filling 

Drops Dates 

Walnuts Cherries 

Balls Chocolate peppermints 

Covering 

Small fruits Eclairs 

Nuts Cake 

Fruit sections Hot cross buns 

pineapple 

orange 

To make Cream Drops 

I. Divide the fondant into as many parts as you wish to make 
colors. 



Digitized by 



Google 



288 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

2. Have ready the following : 

double boiler color 

spatula flavoring 

teaspoon sheet of paraffin paper 

toothpicks spread on a perfectly 

saucepan of boiling water flat surface 

3. Place the fondant in the double boiler and allow it to heat over 
hot water imtil soft. With the toothpick take up a tiny bit of color 
and stir it through the softened fondant. K sufficient color has not 
been added, repeat, but remember that a Uttle color on the toothpick 
goes a long way in the fondant. 

4. Now add the flavoring, using precaution that too much is not 
added. 

5. If the fondant is still quite thick, add a few drops of boiling 
water and stir the whole mixture with the spatula ^ only enough to 
mix the color, flavor, and water, as too much will make it " grainy." 

6. Bring the double boiler to the side of the paraffin paper and, 
using the teaspoon, allow the fondant to drop from the tip of the 
spoon on to the paper. Hold the spoon in this one position so that 
the fondant will be directed into the center of the drop and the result 
will be a ciroilar candy. 

Notes : i. If the fondant piles up on the spoon, not enough hot water was 
added. 

2. If the drops are coarse-grained or rough, the fondant has been 

overcooked and over-stirred. This can sometimes be 
remedied by complete recooking as though using cane sugar. 

3. If white spots appear in the drops on standing, the fondant was 

stirred in the double boiler too much. These are not abso- 
lutely undesirable, but the creams will be hard or brittle. 
They are not perfect cream drops. 

4. The candies dropped on the paper if irregular or too thick may 

be remelted and redropped once, but more than that is 
likely to cause coarse-grained candies. 

5. Do not mix the candies to be done over with first mixture in the 

double boiler, but wait until that is used. 

1 The spatula is the most convenient utensil for this purpose. The fondant 
clings to any utensil used, but is more easily removed without waste from the 
spatula than from a spoon. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SUGAR AND CANDY 289 

To make Walnut Creams: 

1. Divide the fondant into portions by measuring with the tea- 
spoon, I tsp. to each portion. 

2. Wash and dry the wabiuts, using unbroken halves. 

3. Shape the fondant by rolling it lightly between the palms of 
the hands. 

4. Place a walnut meat on one side of the ball and arrange the 
second in a corresponding position on the other side. . Press together 
slightly and the fondant will form a imiform mass between the nut 
meats. The fondant should protrude very slightly beyond the nuts. 

5. Pecans or almonds may be used in place of walnuts. 

To make Chocolate Peppermints: 

Prepare cream drops as in making Cream Drops, using peppermint 
flavoring but no color. To cover the creams, chocolate for the pur- 
pose is on the market, but unsweetened chocolate may be used. The 
latter will not have a glaze, but a little butter melted with the choco- 
late gives a slight glaze. 

Melt the chocolate over hot water, place the cream drops in the 
warm chocolate, and remove when well coated by using a fork. Place 
on a paraffin paper to dry. 

Care must be taken in removing from the chocolate and placing 
the creams on the paraffin, or the chocolate becomes imevenly dis- 
tributed on the creams. 

Fondant used as Covering: 

1. When fondant is used as a covering for fruits, melt it in a double 
boiler and immerse the fruits in it. Remove to a paraffin paper to 
dry. 

2. When fondant is used as a covering for small cakes, have slightly 
more liquid than for fruits. Use cake one day old so that a fork 
can be held in it. 

Put the fork in the bottom of the cake and carefully lower it until 
the fondant comes well up on the sides of the cake. Lift the 
cake out and place, right side up, on a paraffin to dry. A little 
practice will probably be required before a perfect result will be 
obtained. 

XT 



Digitized by 



Google 



290 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Decorate the cakes with tiny pieces of angelica, citron, candied 
fruit, nuts, rose leaves, violet leaves, or candy flowers. 

3. To cover large cakes or hot cross buns with fondant, melt it 
in a double boiler and arrange it on the cake as desired, using a spoon 
and spatida while it is still warm. This is the easiest process of any 
of the ways of using fondant and requires very little skill. 



Ingredients: 

2 c. sugar 
\ c. milk 
^ tsp. salt 



Candy 
Chocolate Fudge 



2 oz. chocolate 
I tbsp. butter 
I tsp. vanilla 



Method: 

Melt chocolate and butter, add sugar and milk and stir imtil sugar 
dissolves. Cook without stirring until it forms a soft ball when 
dropped in cold water. Let stand in cold water imtil cool. Add 
vanilla and beat imtil it can be handled. Mold, and place in buttered 
pan. 



Penoche 

Ingredtents: 

I c. brown sugar 
I c. granulated sugar 
i c. milk or cream 

^5 tsp. salt 
Method: 

Proceed as for chocolate fudge. 



I tbsp. butter 
I c. nut meats 
I tsp. vanilla 



Ingredients: 

1 lb. maple sugar 

2 tbsp. butter 



Maple Fudge 



A tsp. salt 



I c. milk 
^ tsp. soda 



Digitized by 



Google 



SUGAR AND CANDY 



291 



Method: 

Melt butter and sugar, add soda and bring to boiling point. Add 
milk slowly, stirring constantly ; add salt. Proceed as for chocolate 
fudge. 



Ingredients: 



3 c. sugar 
I c. cream 



Earo Cream Fudge 



I tbsp. lemon juice 



i c. Karo 

J lb. figs 



Ingredients: 



3 c. sugar 
I c. cream 



Walnut Cream Fudge 



i c. Karo 
I c. walnuts 



I tsp. vanilla 



Victoria Fudge 

Ingredients: 

2 c. sugar J c. butter 

f c. milk I c. coconut 

J c. each cherries, figs, and pineapples 

Prepare as fudge — fruit flavoring added when cold. 



Ingredients : 

2 c. brown sugar 



Claire Creams 



I c. cream 



I c. nuts 

I c. candied cherries 



I lb. marshmallows 



Method: 

Boil cream and sugar as fudge. Beat until creamy and add J c. 
nut meats and pour in pan. Melt marshmallows, stirring constantly, 
and add nuts and cherries. Pour over top of fudge. 



Digitized by 



Google 



292 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Fluff 

Ingredients : 

2 c. sugar white i egg 
J c. water ^ tsp. salt 

§ c. nut meats or candied cherries 
Method: 

Cook sugar and water to thread stage and pour slowly on beaten 
white of egg. Add nuts and beat until stiff enough to hold shape 
when dropped from tip of a teaspoon on paraffin paper or buttered 
plates. 

Turkish Nougat 

Ingredients : 

3 c. sugar 2 tbsp. com sirup 
I c. Karo or other com sirup whites 3 eggs 

I c. water i c. nut meats 

Method: 

Boil sugar, water, and i c. com sirup to hard crack. Have eggs 
beaten stiff and fold into them 2 tbsp. surup. Beat eggs into boiled 
mixture and pour on to oiled paper. 

Honey Puffs 

Ingredients : 

3 c. sugar I c. nuts i c. cream 

J c. honey i c. candied pineapple white i egg 

Method: 

Boil sugar and cream imtil it will almost spin a thread. Add J c. 
honey and cook to " soft ball " stage. Take from fire and add i 
beaten white of egg. Beat i minute and add i c. each chopped nuts 
and candied pineapple. Beat imtil creamy, and form into balls. 
Place on paraffin paper. 

Molasses Candy 

Ingredients : 

3 c. brown sugar i tbsp. butter 

J c. molasses J tsp. soda 

I c. water 2 tbsp. vanilla 



Digitized by 



Google 



SUGAR AND CANDY 293 

Method: 

Cook all but soda and vanilla until mixture cracks when dropped 
into cold water. Beat in soda and vanilla and pour on a buttered 
plate. Draw edges in toward center until cold enough to handle; 
pull until light and smooth. Cut into inch pieces with sharp scissors. 

Peanut Brittle 

Ingredients : 

I c. sugar §-i c. peanuts 

(i qt. imshelled) 
Method: 

Melt sugar in iron pan imtil a light brown sirup, remove imme- 
diately, add nuts, chopped if desired, spread on an inverted tin plate 
and mark into squares when cool. 

Butterscotch 

Ingredients : 

1 c. sugar I c. Karo sirup 

1-4 tbsp. butter 
Method: 

Boil without stirring imtil brittle when dropped in cold water. 
Pour into shallow buttered pan and when cool mark into squares. 

Glac6 for Nuts and Fruits 
Ingredients: 

2 c. sugar I c. water 

i c. vinegar 
Method: 

Boil sugar and water to the thread stage. Add vinegar and 
boil until color changes. Keep over boiling water while dipping. 
Skin of orange sections should not be broken. Cherries and grapes 
on stems should be himg on wires. 

Candied Orange Peel 

Wipe 4 oranges and remove peel in quarters. Put peel in sauce- 
pan, cover with cold water, bring to boiling point and then simmer 
imtil soft. Drain and scrape off \ of the white portion. Cut in 



Digitized by 



Google 



294 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

thin strips. BoU i c. sugar and J c. water until it spins a thread. 
Cook strips in the sirup $ minutes. Drain. Roll in granulated sugar. 

Salted Almonds I 

Blanch Jordan almonds by allowing them to stand in boiling water 
until it loosens the skins. Drain, place in a shallow pan, sprinkle 
with salt and small pieces of butter. Brown in a pan in broiling 
oven, stirring frequently. Drain on paper. 

Salted Almonds n 
Ingredients: 

I pt. water i c. almonds 

i c. salt 2 tbsp. butter or olive oil 

Method: 
Blanch almonds as described above. Boil salt and water, add 

almonds and cook 8 minutes. Drain and place them in a baking 

pan, dot over with butter and bake imtil a delicate brown, stirring 

frequently. Drain on brown paper. 

References 

Sugar 

Abel. Sugar and Its Value as Food. United States Agriculture 
Department, Farmers' Bulletin No. 535 (1913). 

Blakey. The United States Sugar Beet Industry. 

Browne. Handbook of Sugar Analysis. 

Deerr. Cane Sugar Manufacture. 

Deerr. Sugar and the Sugar Cane. 

Ellis. An Introduction to the History of Sugar as a Commodity. 

Geerling. The World's Cane Sugar Industry, Past and Present. 

Sherman. Food Products. 

Snell. Maple Sap Products and the Canadian Standards. Re- 
printed from the Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry 

(1914). 
Thorpe. Outlines of Industrial Chemistry. 
Wiley. Foods and their Adulteration. 



Digitized by 



Google 





CHAPTER XXI 


RECIPES 


FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 1 




Beverages 




Ingredients : 


Boiled Coffee 




5 c. coffee 
2 eggs 


I c. cold water 


2 c. cold water 
8 qts. boiling water 


Ingredients: 


Reception Cocoa 


L 


li c. cocoa 
2 c. sugar 


I pt. water 


8 qts. milk 

I qt. boiling water 


Ingredients: 


Tea 




f c. tea 




ID qts. boiling watei 


Ingredients: * 


Lemonade 




4 c. sugar 
I qt. water 




8 qts. water 
3 doz. lemons 



1 As a rule only the Ingredients will be given in this chapter since the same Methods 
may be followed as in the preceding chapters. 

295 



Digitized by 



Google 



296 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Fruit Punch 

IngredietUs: 

2 lbs. sugar i qt. water 

8 lemons i pt. grapejuice or tea 

6 oranges i pt. canned pineapple 

6 qts. water juice, or other fruit 

I pt. shredded pineapple juice 

I pt. strawberries or cherries 

Fruits 

Apple Sauce 
Ingredients: 

. 50 large apples 3-4 qts. water 

9 c. sugar juice 2 lemons (or 2 

grated nutmegs) 

Stewed Apricots 
Ingredients: 

4 lbs. dried apricots 4 qts. cold water 

4 c. sugar 

Stewed Prunes 

Ingredients : 

4 lbs. prunes 4 c. sugar 

4 qts. cold water juice i orange 

juice I lemon 

Baked Rhubarb 
Ingredients: 

16 lbs. rhubarb 4 qts. sugar 

Cranberry Jelly 

Ingredients: 

4 qts. cranberries 8 c. sugar 

I qt. water 



Digitized by 



Google 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 

Cranberry Sauce 

Ingredients: 

4 J qts. berries i| qts. water 

6 c. sugar 



297 



Combination of Fruits 
Ingredients: 

1 doz. oranges i can Hawaiian pineapple 
3 lbs. grapes 6 grapefruit 

2 baskets strawberries 6 bananas 



Sirup: 

2 c. sugar 
4 c. water 
juice I lemon 



Cereals 

Cream of Wheat 
Ingredients: 

f lb. cream of wheat 5 tbsp. salt 

4I qts. water 



Ingredients: 

I lb. oatmeal 



Ingredients: 

5 c. rice 



Oatmeal 



5 tbsp. salt 



4 qts. boiling water 



Boiled Rice 



7 qts. vater 



i c. salt 



Ingredients: 
5 c. rice 



Steamed 21ce 



if qts. water 



} c. salt 



Digitized by 



Google 



298 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 





Vegetables 






Creamed 




Asparagus 


8 bimches 


4 qts. white sauce n 


Cabbage 


10 lbs. 


3 qts. white sauce 11 


Carrots 


12 lbs. 


3 qts. white sauce 11 


Cauliflower 


6-8 


3 qts. white sauce 11 


Celery 


8 qts. cubed 


3 qts. white sauce II 


Onions 


ipk. 


3 qts. white sauce 11 


Potatoes 


8 qts. cubed 


4 qts. white sauce IE 


Tiu"nips 


12 lbs. 
Mashed Potatoes 


3 qts. white sauce 11 


Ingredients: 






I pk. potatoes 




I c. butter 


I qt. milk 




5 tbsp. salt 




Stuffed Baked Potatoes 


Ingredients: 






50 potatoes 




li tbsp. salt 


I J c. hot milk 


I c. butter 
Potato Croquettes 


2 tsp. pepper 


Ingredients: 






5 lbs. potatoes 




i tsp. cayenne 


4 eggs 




i§ tbsp. salt 


1 c. butter 




i c. chopped parsley 


juice I onion 


Scalloped Potatoes 


J c. milk 


Ingredients : 






6 qts. sliced potatoes 


li c. butter 


2 qts. hot milk 




3 tbsp. salt 


i c. flour 




juice I lemon 



Digitized by 



Google 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



299 



Sweet Potato Croquettes 
Ingredients: 

5 lbs. sweet potatoes i c. parsley 

5 eggs ij tsp. salt 

\ c. butter \ tsp. cayenne 



Ingredients: 

I J pks. sweet potatoes 

\ c. butter 

salt 



Glazed Sweet Potatoes 



3 c. sugar 
ij c. water 
§ tsp. pepper 



Ingredients : 

6 No. 2 cans com 
3 qts. milk 
2 tbsp. salt 
5 tbsp. sugar 



Com Pudding 



i tsp. pepper 



12 eggs — beaten sepa- 
rately 
3 qts. bread crumbs 
f c. butter 



Ingredients : 

25 large peppers 
3 qts. chopped meat 
salt 



Stuffed Peppers 



2 qts. bread crumbs 
juice I large onion 
pepper 



Ingredients : 

8 qts. tomatoes 
I c. butter 
i c. sugar 



Stewed Tomatoes 



4 tbsp. salt 
J tsp. cayenne 
4 c. bread cnunbs 



Ingredients: 

50 tomatoes 
3§ tbsp. salt 
I tsp. pepper 
I c. butter 



Baked Tomatoes 



i c. sugar 
J c. parsley 
juice 2 onions 
2 qts. bread crumbs 



Digitized by 



Google 



300 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND CXX)KERY 

Soups 

Cream Soup — Celerj 

Ingredients: 

8 qts. celery, cubed 7 qts. scalded milk 

6 qts. boiling water 2 c. butter 

2 onions 2f c. flour 
pepper, cayenne 5 tbsp. salt 

Cream Soup — Com 

Ingredients: 

8 cans com 7 qts. scalded milk 

3 qts. boiling water 2 c. butter 
2 onions i^ c. flour 
pepper, cayenne 5 tbsp. salt 

Cream Soup — Tomato 

Ingredients: 

6 qts. canned tomatoes 6 qts. scalded milk 

6 bay leaves i J c. butter 

1 tsp. peppercorns i\ c. flour 

2 onions i tbsp. baking soda 
\ c. sugar salt 

pepper 

Cream Soup — Potato 

Ingredients: 

8 lbs. potatoes 2 c. butter 

4 onions ij c. flour 
2 qts. boiling water 6 tbsp. salt 

J c. chopped parsley i tbsp. celery salt 

10 qts. scalded milk J tsp. cayenne 

Brown Stock Soup 

Ingredients: 

10 lbs. beef and bone 8 qts. water 

I tsp. peppercorns 12 cloves 

4 bay leaves parsley 

I c. each carrots, onion, celery, turnip 



Digitized by 



Google 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



3Qt 



Ingredients: 

4 qts. stock 

2 tbsp. allspice berries 

4 bay leaves 

I large onion 



Mongole Soup 



4 qts. tomatoes 

24 cloves 

parsley 

I tsp. celery seed 



Ingredients : 

6 qts. stock 
I c. peppers 
salt 



Creole 



cayenne 



4 qts. tomatoes 
i c. onion 
pepper 



Sauce with Mongole Soup 
Ingredients: 

f c. butter f c. flour 

I tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 2 tbsp. vinegar 



Ingredients : 

ij c. butter 
i c. horseradish 



Sauce with Creole Soup 



I c. macarom nngs 



if c. flour 

2 tbsp. vinegar 



Ingredients: 

2 shins beef 

10 qts. cold water 

6 qts. boiling water 

2 c. carrots 

2 c. cabbage 

2 celery roots 

4 bay leaves 



Vegetable Soup 



2 c. potatoes — cooked 

separately 
2 qts. tomatoes 
J tsp. pepper 
juice 2 onions 
4 tbsp. chopped parsley 
4 tbsp. salt 



Digitized by 



Google 



302 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients: 

6 qts. beef stock 

\ lb. noodles 

J c. rice or barley 



Noodle Soup 



Ingredients : 

6 qts. beef stock 
4 tbsp. salt 

Ingredients: 

I knuckle of veal 
6 qts. cold water 
I bunch of herbs 

3 tbsp. parsley 

4 qts. milk 



6 qts. boiling water 
Macaroni Soup 



Rice Soup 



M£ATS 



Mutton Stew 

Ingredients : 

lo lbs. shoulder of mutton 
6 qts. boiling water 

2 onions 

3 c. turnips 
3 c. carrots 

2 qts. boiling water 

J c. butter 



Ingredients : 

13 lbs. chuck 

8 qts. boiling water 

6 c. turnips 

6 c. carrots 

2 qts. boiling water 



Beef Stew 



I tsp. pepper 



\ tsp. cayenne 
4 tbsp. parsley 
4 tbsp. salt 



f lb. macaroni 

6 qts. boiling water 



I lb. rice 

2} qts. boiling water 
4 tbsp. salt 
juice 2 onions 
i tsp. pepper 



4 c. flour 
4 tsp. salt 
I tsp. pepper 
J c. chopped parsley 
3 lbs. potatoes - 
cooked separately 



2 tbsp. salt 
J c. beef drippings 
2 onions 

7§ lbs. potatoes - 
cooked separately 



Digitized by 



Google 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



303 



Ingredients: 

8 lbs. mutton from neck 
8 qts. boiling water 
I lb. barley 
I c. carrots 
I c. turnips 
I c. celery 



Scotch Stew 



I c. onion 

1 c. flour 

i c. drippings 

2 tbsp. salt 

I tsp. pepper 
4 tbsp. parsley 



Scalloped Meat 

Ingredients: 

2} lbs. cooked meat ground 

juice 2 onions 

i c. parsley 

2 c. bread crumbs 

2 tsp. salt 

} tsp. pepper 



6 lbs. raw potatoes — 
cooked and mashed 
i c. butter 
f qt. milk 
I tbsp. salt 



Ingredients : 

J c. drippings 
I c. flour 



Gravy 



li qts. stock 
I tsp. salt 



Ingredients: 

1 2 lbs. veal 

2 lbs. salt pork 

3 tbsp. salt 

I tsp. pepper 



Veal Loaf 



6eggs 

} c. melted butter 
3 c. crumbs 
milk to moisten 



Ingredients: 

3 qts. pea beans 
2 lbs. salt pork 

4 tbsp. salt 

I tbsp. mustard 



Meat Substitutes 
Baked Beans 



I c. molasses 

1 tsp. pepper 

2 onions 

4 tbsp. brown sugar 



Digitized by 



Google 



304 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Cream Toast 

Ingredtenls: 

4 qts. medium white sauce toast 



German Toast 

Ingredienis : 

2 doz. eggs i c. sugar 

I tbsp. salt li qts. milk 

toast 



Stuffed Eggs 

Ingredients: 

50 hard-cooked eggs 3 tbsp. oil 

I J c. minced ham J tsp. cayemie 

i c. butter ij tsp. mustard 
2J tsp. salt 



Macaroni and Cheese 

Ingredients: 

2 lbs. macaroni 2 qts. medium white 

J c. salt sauce 

cayenne i lb. grated cheese 



Rice with Tomato Sauce 

Ingredients: 

6 c. rice boiling, salted water 



Tomato Sauce for Rice or Macaroni 

Ingredients: 

I No. 10 can tomatoes 2 c. flour 

i c. sugar 2 qts. soup stock or 

1 tbsp. salt water 

3 bay leaves i tsp. peppercorns 

2 c. fat J tsp. cloves 



Digitized by 



Google 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



305 



Ingredients: 

I qt. rice 
i c. salt 
7 qts. water 



Creamed Rice 



I qt. milk 
3 tbsp. sugar 
i doz. eggs 



Ingredients : 

I qt. rice 
3 tbsp. salt 
I c. milk 



Rice Croquettes 



parsley 



} c. butter 
6 eggs 
cayemie 



Ingredients : 

3 lbs. codfish 



Fish 
Creamed Codfish 

4 qts. medium white sauce 
4 qts. cold water 



Ingredients: 

4 qts. cold flaked fish 
I qt. buttered crumbs 



Scalloped Fish 



3 qts. medium white sauce 
I onion and 6 bay leaves 
scalded in the milk 



Ingredients: 

5 cans salmon 
f c. butter 
I c. flour 
5 c. milk 



6 eggs 



Salmon Cutlets 



5 tsp. salt 
J tsp. cayenne 
5 tbsp. parsley 
juice 2 lemons 



For dipping 



sifted crumbs 



6 tbsp. water 



Digitized by 



Google 



3o6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients: 
lo shad 
f lb. salt pork 
J lb. butter 

Ingredients : 

4 qts. tomatoes 
4 bay leaves 
I onion 

Ingredients: 

I J lbs. codfish 
6 lbs. potatoes 
i c. butter 

Ingredients: 

6 qts. oysters 

ij c. oyster liquor 

f c. milk 



Baked Shad with Tomato Sauce 



Sauce 



2 tsp. salt 
ij tsp. pepper 
I c. flour 



4 tsp. salt 
i c. butter 
I c. flour 



Codfish Balls 



4 eggs 

J tsp. cayenne 

salt if needed 



Scalloped Oysters 



2 qts. buttered crumbs 

salt 

pepper 



Flour Mixtures 



Ingredients: 

2\ qts. water 

lo tbsp. lard or butter 

z\ tbsp. sugar 



Bread 



3 tbsp. salt 

2^ yeast cakes 

2 c. lukewarm water 



about 8 qts. flour 



Ingredients : 

6 c. scalded milk 
6 c. water 
4 tbsp. salt 
f c. butter 
ij c. molasses 



Graham Bread 



3 yeast cakes 
3 c. warm water 
6 c. flour 

graham or entire wheat 
flour to knead 



Digitized by 



Google 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



307 



Nut Bread 
3 qts. chopped nuts added after first rising 



Ingredients : 

1} qts. milk 
f c. butter 
i c. lard 
7 qts. flour 



RoUs 



2 tbsp. salt 
i c. sugar 

li yeast cakes 

3 c. lukewarm water 



Steamed Brown Bread 

Ingredients: 

I qt. rye meal 1} tbsp. soda 

I qt. com meal i^ tbsp. salt 

I qt. graham flour i c. and 3 tbsp. molasses 

I J qts. sour milk 



Ingredients: 

3 qts. flour 
I tbsp. salt 
} c. baking powder 



Biscuits 



I qt. milk or more 
6 tbsp. butter 
6 tbsp. lard 



Fruit Rolls 



Ingredients : 

3 qts. flour 

8 tbsp. baking powder 

I tbsp. salt 

4-5 c. milk 

Roll out and spread with 
f c. butter 
3 c. raisins 



} c. sugar 
i c. butter or, 
f c. lard 



3 c. brown sugar 
2 tbsp. cinnamon 



Wheat Muffins 

Ingredients : 

2§ qts. flour 5 

6} tbsp. baking powder f c. sugar 

if tbsp. salt 10 tbsp. melted butter 

I J qts. milk 



Digitized by 



Google 



3o8 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Entire Wheat or Graham Muffins 

Ingredients : 

2 pts. white flour s eggs 

. 3 pts. graham flour li qts. milk 

6 tbsp. baking powder lo tbsp. melted butter 

if tbsp. salt i c. sugar 



Com Muffins 

Ingredients : 

I J qts. wheat flour 
I J qts. com meal 
8 tbsp. baking powder 
f c. sugar 



ij tbsp. salt 

6eggs 

li qts. milk 

f c. melted butter 



Ingredients : 

1 qt. molasses 

2 c. hot water 

I c. melted butter 
2i qts. flour 



Cakes 
Ginger Cake 



4 tsp. soda 
4 tsp. ginger 
2 tsp. cinnamon 
2 tsp. salt 



Ingredients : 

2 lbs. butter 
4 lbs. sugar 

3 doz. eggs 
I tbsp. salt 



Plain Cake 



7 qts. flour 

14 tbsp. baking powder 

2J-J qts. milk 

3 tbsp. vanilla 



Ingredients : 

2i c. butter 
6f c. sugar 
3 c. milk 
iii c. flour 



White Cake 

4i tbsp. baking powder 
f tsp. cream of tartar 
1 1 tsp. salt 
2 tsp. almond extract 
whites of 28 eggs 



Digitized by 



Google 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



309 



Ingredients: 

4 c. butter 
8 c. sugar 
16 eggs 



Spanish Cake 



I qt. milk 



14 c. flour 

8 tbsp. baking powder 

8 tsp. cinnamon 



Ingredients : 



20 eggs 
4 c. sugar 
4 c. flour 



Sponge Cake I 



4 tsp. baking powder 
I tsp. salt 
I tbsp. vanilla 



Ingredients: 



24 eggs 
4 c. sugar 
rind 2 lemons 



Sponge Cake II 



4 c. flour 

J c. lemon juice 

I tsp. salt 



Ingredients : 

I c. butter 
3 c. sugar 
6 eggs 



Washington Cakes 



f tbsp. salt 



5i c. flour 

2f tbsp. baking powder 

if c. milk 



Bake as cup cakes. Split, fill, and cover with whipped cream. 
The cream may be colored with currant jelly. 



Ingredients: 



i| c. sugar 
J c. flour 
I tsp. salf 



Filling for Above 



3 c. milk 

4 eggs 

f tbsp. vanilla 



Digitized by 



Google 



3IO LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 
Spice Cookies 



Ingredients: 

1 c. butter 

2 c, brown sugar 
2 eggs 

I c. molasses 
I tsp. vanilla 
if c. milk 



2 qts. flour 

4 tsp. baking powder 
i nutmeg, grated 

3 tbsp. cinnamon 
2 tsp. cloves 

I tsp. salt 



Ingredients: 

i c. and 2 tbsp. butter 
ij c. sugar 
6 eggs 
I J c. milk 
flour to roll 



Doughnuts 



2 J tbsp. baking powder 
i tsp. cinnamon 
i tsp. nutmeg 
I tbsp. salt 
I tbsp. vanilla 



Ingredients: 

6 heads lettuce 

2 doz. oranges 

2 cans Hawaiian pineapple 

I lb. malaga grapes 

i lb. candied cherries 



Salads 
Fruit 



I, c. English walnut 

meats 
2 c. cubed celery 
6 bananas 
I qt. mayonnaise 



Ingredients : 

4-6 yolks to i qt. oil 



Mayonnaise Dressing 



Ingredients : 

4 qts. apples 
2 qts. celery 



Waldorf 



2 c. walnut meats 
I qt. mayonnaise 



Digitized by 



Google 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 311 

Chicken 

Ingredients: 

5 qts. chicken (5 chickens) i c. French dressing 

5 qts. celery i qt. mayonnaise 

Tomato Jelly 

Ingredients : 

f c. gelatin i qt. cold water 

I gal. tomatoes i c. celery 

I onion 2 c. carrots 

2J tbsp. salt I bay leaf 

2} tbsp. powdered sugar 12 peppercorns 
12 allspice berries 



Cheese Straws for Salads 

Ingredients: 

2 qts. grated cheese 2 tsp. salt 

2 qts. crumbs i tsp. pepper 

5J c. flour i tsp. cayenne 

J c. butter i c. milk 



Desserts 

Snow Pudding 
Ingredients: 

I J boxes granulated gelatin 6 J c. sugar 

2 c. cold water 2 c. lemon juice 

2 qts. boiling water 10 whites of eggs 

Coffee Cream 

Ingredients : 

2 boxes granulated gelatin 2 J c. cold water 

4 c. sugar 2 qts. strong coffee 

3i qts. thin cream 



Digitized 



by Google 



312 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Soft Custard 



Ingredients : 

lo yolks of eggs 
I tsp. salt 



Ingredients : 

4 qts. milk 
i6eggs 



2 tsp. vanilla 



if c. sugar 
2^ qts. milk 



Cup Custard 



3 c. sugar 



2 tsp. salt 
4 tsp. vanilla 



Chocolate Custard 

Ingredients: 

Above plus 8 oz. chocolate 



Ingredients: 

4 qts. milk 
4 oz. chocolate 
1 6 egg yolks 

10 egg whites 



Soft Chocolate Custard 



Meringue 



2 c. sugar 
2 tsp. salt 
4 tsp. vanilla 

2 c. powdered sugar 



Ingredients : 

8 qts. milk 

2 qts. water 

3 c. rice 



Rice Pudding 



3 c. sugar 
2 pkgs. raisins 
2 tsp. salt 



Scalloped Apples 

Ingredients : 

1 6 qts. sliced apples 5 tsp. cinnamon 

5 qts. bread crumbs 5 c. sugar 

2 c. butter juice and rind 4 lemons 
I c. water 



Digitized by 



Google 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



313 



Ingredients : 

30 large apples 
30 egg whites 



Apple Snow 



5 c. powdered sugar 
juice 5 lemons 



Ingredients: 

3 c. tapioca 
f pk. apples 



Apple Tapioca 



3 qts. boiling water 
2 c. sugar 



Chocolate Bread Pudding 

Ingredients : 

5 qts. milk 12 eggs 

2I qts. bread i tbsp. salt 

10 oz. chocolate 2 tbsp. vanilla 
3 c. sugar 



Ingredients: 

2 c. butter 

2 c. brown sugar 



Hard Sauce 



2 c. powdered sugar 
I tbsp. vanilla 



Ingredients : 

6 qts. milk 
ij c. sugar 



Junket 



6 tablets dissolved in 4 tbsp. 
cold water 



2 tbsp. vanilla 



Ingredients: 

6 qts. milk 

2 c. sugar 

4 oz. chocolate 



Chocolate Junket 



I c. hot water 
6 tablets dissolved in 4 tbsp. 
cold water 



I J tbsp. vanilla 



Digitized by 



Google 



314 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 
Steamed Pudding 



Ingredients : 

I c. butter 

2} c. sugar 

5 eggs 

1} qts. milk 

juice and rind 2 lemons 



i c. flour 

4J qts. bread crumbs 

4 tbsp. baking powder 

li tsp. salt 

I qt. raisins 



Ingredients: 

2^ qts. milk 

14 eggs 

2i qts. cream 

Ingredients : 

2 qts. milk 
12 yolks 



Ingredients: 

3 lbs. sugar 



I J nutmegs (grated) 

Frozen Desserts 
Chocolate Ice Cream 



Ingredients : 

5 qts. milk 
7 c. sugar 

Ingredients : 

5 qts. water 
rind of 6 oranges 
I qt* orange juice 



5 c. sugar 

12 oz. chocolate 

4J tbsp. vanilla 

Custard Ice Cream 

4 c. sugar 
4 tbsp. vanilla 
2 qts. cream 

Strawberry Ice Cream 

3 qts. berries 
4J qts. cream 

Milk Sherbet 
Orange Ice 



2 c. lemon juice 
rind of 3 lemons 



4 lbs. sugar 
rind of 6 lemons 
2 c. lemon juice 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX 



Absorption of odors, 


Bean loaf, loi. 


experiments, 88-89. 


Beef. See also Meat. 


Alkaloids, 2. 


broth, 141. 


Almonds, salted, 294. 


casserole, 143. 


Apples, 16-17, 52, S3, 67, 74, 100. 


cuts of, 127-128. 


baked, 16. 


fillet, broUed, 137. 


in bloom, 16. 


fillet of, 135, 136. 


in sirup with oatmeal, 53. 


Hamburg steak, 138. 


in sirup with rice, 52. 


juice, 141. 


potato, 67. 


pot roast, 140. 


scalloped, 74, 312. 


stew, 141. 


scalloped with cheese, 100. 


Beets, buttered, 64. 


snow, 313. 


Beverages, i-io, 295-296. 


steamed, 16. 


classification, i. 


stewed, 17. 


definition, i. 


tapioca, S3f 313. 


experiments, 3-6. 


Apple sauce, 16, 20, 296. 


fruits suitable for, 24. 


Apricots, 19, 296. 


methods of serving, 2. 


conserve, 41. 


recipes, 6-10. 


Arrowroot gruel, 56. 


references, 10. 


Ash constituents. See Food Values and 


Biscuits, 196-197, 307. 


the general discussions of the dif- 


bran, 197. 


ferent foods. 


cheese, 197. 


Asparagus, 58, 74. 


com meal, 197. 






Bacon, 140. 


fruit, 197. 


Bacteria, 26. 


general rules, 196. 


Baking powder, 180. 




Bananas, baked, 17. 


wheat, 196. 


Barley gruel, 56. 


Biuret reaction for protein, 85. 


Barley water, 10. 


Bouillon, 132. 


Batters, 189-217. 


Bread, 189-193, 306-307. 




Boston brown, 190, 307. 


coffee, 150. 


brown, 190. 


grape, 150. 


gluten, 190. 


orange, 150. 


graham, 190, 191, 243, 306. 


Beans, 71, loi. 


Indian, 243. 


baked, 71, 77, 303. 


nut, 190, 191, 192, 307. 


dried lima, 71. 


sticks, 193. 


33 


15 




Digitized by VjO 



3i6 



INDEX 



Bread, toast, cream, 304. 

toast, German, 304. 

wheat, 189, 306. 
Butter. See also Milk. 

experiments, 84. 
Buttermilk. See also Milk. 

experiments, 84-85. 

uses for, 243-247. 
Butters, 23. 

Cabbage, 65-66. 

buttered, 65. 

creamed, 66. 

with ham, 66. 
Caffeine, 2. 
Caffetannic add, 3. 
Cake, 218-227, 308^-309. 

apple, dried, 245. 

apple sauce, 222. 

chocolate, 220. 

coffee, 222. 

date loaf, 221. 

fruit, 222, 245. 

general rules, 218. 

gingerbread with cheese, 103, 104. 

ginger cake, 223, 308. 

ginger cup, 224. 

Genoese, 227. 

ginger, hot water, 223. 

gold, 221. 

jelly roll, 226. 

Lady Baltimore, 220. 

modia, 226. 

modifications, 219. 

orange loaf, 221. 

plain, 308. 

poimd, 220. 

raspberry, canned, 223. 

Roxbury, 224. 

Spanish, 219, 309. 

spice, 246. 

sponge, 225, 309. 

sponge, drops, 225. 

sponge, for ornamenting, 226. 

sponge, hot water, 225. 

sponge, white, 226. 

sponge, with baking powder, 225. 

sponge, yellow, 224. 

standard, 219. 

Washington, and filling, 309. 

white, 219, 308. 



Cake, with butter, 218-224. 

without butter, 224-227. 
Candy, 286-294. 

butterscotch, 293. 

candied orange peel, 293. 

daire creams, 291. 

fluff, 292. 

fondant, 286-290. 

fudge, 290-291. 

general discussion, 284. 

glac6 for fruits afnd nuts, 293. 

honey puffs, 292. 

molasses, 292. 

peanut brittle, 293. 

Turkish nougat, 292. 
Canning (and preserving), 22-46. 

definirions, 33. 

experiments, 26-33. 

fruits, for, 22. 

general directions, 34. 

references, 45-46. 

score cards, 45. 

vegetables for, 22. 
Caramel, 90. 
Carrots, 59, 60, 65. 
Cereals, 47-57, 297. 

consbtency of, 48. 

cooking of, 48, 51. 

cream of wheat, 297. 

experiments, 49-51. 

general discussion, 47-48. 

general rules, 51. 

oatmeal, 297. 

purchasing, 48. 

reasons for cooking, 48. 

references, 56-57. 

rice, boiled, 297. 

rice, steamed, 297. 

serving, 48. 

tabular summary for cooking, 51. 

variations in serving, 48. 

with fruits, combinations of, 52. 
Charlottes, 151. 

caramel, 151. 

chocolate, 151. 

coffee, 151. 

orange, 151. 

Russe, 151. 

strawberry, 151. 
Cheese, 95-105, 115, 120, 208. 

food values, 104-105. 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX 



317 



Cheese, general discussion, 95-96. 
recipes, 96-104. 

apples scalloped with, 100. 

balls, 103. 

bean loaf, loi. 

cake, 99. 

com, tomato and, 102. 

croquettes, 120. 

custard, 100. 

eggs with, 96. 

fondue, 97. 

gingerbread, 103, 104. 

Italian rice, 102. 

lima bean loaf, loi. 

loaf, loi. 

macaroni baked with, 208. 

nut loaf, loi. 

omelet, 98. 

red bimny, 99. 

rice, Italian, 102. 

souffl6, 115. 

souffl6 with pastry, 100. 

soup, vegetable and, loi. 

soup, 100. 

spinach loaf, 102. 

straws, 103, 311. 

tomato and com, 102. 

Turkish pilaf, 102. 

Welsh rarebit, 98, 99. 
Cherry and pineapple preserve, 42. 
Cherry conserve, 42. 
Chicken, 133, iS4-iS7« 
k la King, iS7- 
casserole, 156. 
creamed, 156. 
Creole, 157. 
fricassee, 155. 
fried, 155. 
gravy, 155. 
Maryland, 156. 
pie, 156. 
roast, 154. 
sauce, 156. 
soup, 133. 

stuffing for roast, 155. 
Chili sauce, 43. 
Chocolate, 8. 
Citric add, 2. 
Clams, 166-167. 
broth, 167. 
chowder, 167. 



Clams, steamed, 166. 
Cocoa, 7, 295. 
Codfish, creamed, 162. 
Coflfee, 7, 295. , 
Comforts, 201. 
Conserves, 23, 41-42. 

apricot, 41. 

cherry, 42. 

grape, 42. 

plimi, 42. 

rhubarb, 41. 
Consomm6, 132. 
Cookies, 209-215. 

Boston, 211. 

Brownies, chocolate, 215. 

chocolate, 214. 

chocolate chips, 215. 

chocolate wafers, 210. 

classification, 209-210. 

fairy gingerbread, 215. 

general rules, 210. 

ginger snaps, 213. 

hermits, 214. 

Margarets, 211. 

meringues, 212. 

meringues, date, 212. 

molasses, 213, 246, 247. 

molasses drop, 212. 

nut, 215. 

oatmeal, 211. 

orange circles, 213. 

peanut, 212. 

sponge drops, 213. 

sugar, 214, 246. 

thin, 214. 

vanilla, 214. 
Com meal gmel, 56. 
Com pudding, 65. 
Cornstarch pud(Ung, 53. 
Cottage cheese, 87. 
Crabapples, baked, 17. 
Crabs, 170-171. 

devilled, 170. 

soft-shelled, 171. 
Cranberry, 

jelly, 18, 296. 

sauce, 18, 297. 

spiced, 18. 
Cream, 

experiments, 83-84. 

uses for sour, 244, 246, 247. 



Digitized by 



Google 



3i8 



INDEX 



Creamed vegetables, 73, 298. 
Cream filling for eclairs, 207. 
Cream of wheat, 297. 
Cream puffs, 206, 207. 
Cream soups, 74-75, soo. 

asparagus, 74. 

celery, 75, 300. 

chicken, 75. 

string bean, 75. 

tomato, 75, 300. 
Croquettes, 1 18-12 1. 

beef and rice, 121. 

cheese, 120. 

chicken, 120. 

crumbs for, 118. 

eggs for, 118. 

fats for frying, 119. 

nut and raisin, 120. 

potato, 119. 

recipes, 119-121. 

rice, 119. 

score card, 121. 

veal or lamb, 121. 
Crumbs for scalloped dishes, 73. 
Cuciunber pickles, 44. 
Custard, 89-91, 100, 312. 

baked, 90, 312. 

caramel, 90. 

cheese, 100. 

chocolate, 91, 312. 

floating island, 91. 

general rules, 89. 

rice or tapioca, 91. 

soft, 89, 312. 

steamed, 90. 

tapioca or rice, 91. 

Dates, oatmeal with, 52. 

Desserts, 53-55, 3 1 1-3 14- See also imder 

the name of each. 
Doughnuts, 201, 247, 310. 
Doughs, 189-217. 
Drying, fruits for, 24. 

Eclairs, 207. 

Eggs, 96, 107-113, 237. 

experiments, io7-rio9. 

food value, 113. 

general discussion, 107. 

preserving, 107, 112. 

redpes, 109-112, 237. 



Eggs, redpes, k la goldenrod, 112. 

coddled, no. 

foamy omelet. III. 

French omelet, in. 

hard-cooked, 109. 

in-nest, in. 

omelets, no. 

poached, no. 

scrambled, no. 

scrambled with tomato sauce, 112. 

shirred or baked, no. 

soft-cooked, 109. 

stuffed, 304. 

with cheese, 96. 

with grape juice, 9. 

references, 122. 
Egg plant, 71. 
Escalloped. See Scalloped. 
Experiments, 3-6, 13-15, 26-33, AQS^t 
60-64, 83-89, 107-109, 116-118, 
125-126, 147-148, 172-179, 180- 
185, 260-261, 270-271, 285-286. 
See also under the different foods. 

Farinaceous desserts, 53-55, 312-313. 

apple tapioca, 53, 313. 

baked Indian, 54. 

coffee sago, 54. 

cornstarch pudding, 53. 

orange, 55. 

rice, 55, 312. 

shredded wheat, 55. 
Fat, experiments with deep fat frying, 
116-118. 

See also Food Values and the goieral 
discussions of the individual 
foods. 
Fehling-Benedict solution, 13. 
Fifty servings, recipes for, 

beverages, 295-296. 

breads, 306-307. 

cakes, 308-309. 

cereals, 297. 

cheese straws, 311. 

cookies, 310. 

desserts, 311-314. 

doughnuts, 310. 

fish, 305-306. 

frozen desserts, 314. 

fruits, 296-297. 

mayonnaise dressing, 310. 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX 



319 



Fifty servings, recipes for, meats, 302-303. 

meat substitutes, 303-305. 

muffins, 307-308. 

oysters, scalloped, 306. 

salads, 310-311. 

soups, 300-302. 

vegetables, 298-299. 
Fillings for cake, 220, 223, 233-234. 

chocolate, 223, 233. 

cream, 233. 

fig and fruit, 234. 

Lady Baltimore, 220. 

lemon, 233. 

orange, 233. 
Fish, 158-165, 171, 305-306. 

baked, stuffed, 160, 306. 

boiled, 160. 

boning, 159. 

broiled, 160. 

chowder, 162. 

cleaning, 159. 

codfish balls, 306. 

cooking, 159, 161. 

creamed cod, 305. 

food value, 165. 

general discussion, 158-159. 

redpes, 160-162, 305-306. See also 
under name of each dish. 

references, 171. 

salmon cutlets, 305. 

sauces, 159, 163-164. 

scalloped, 162, 305. 

steamed, 160. 

stuffing for, 160. 

vegetables suitable for serving with, 

159- 
Fish balls, 161. 
Flounder, turbans of, 161. 
Flour mixtiu-es, 172-247, 266-267. 
classification, 185-187. 
experiments, 172-185. 
food values, 198, 205, 217, 229, 230. 
general discussion, 172. 
oven temperatures, 187. 
pastry, 234-242. 
redpes, 189-195, 196-204, 206-215, 

2i8r-227, 235-240, 243-247, 266- 

267. 
references, 187-188. 
score cards, 195, 196, 197, 205, 216, 

227, 228, 241, 242. 



Flour mixtures, steamed, 266-267. 

using sour milk, buttermilk, sour 
cream, 243-247. 
Food values, 20, 77-79, 92, 104-105, 113, 
165, 198, 205, 217, 229-230, 259, 
263-264, 283. 

apple sauce, 20. 

beans, baked, 77. 

biscuits, 198. 

boiled dressing, 264. 

cake, chocolate, 229. 

cake, sponge, 230. 

creamed codfish on toast, 165. 

cream soups, 78-79. 

custard, baked, 92. 

egg, scrambled, 113. 

French dressing, 264. 

gingerbread, 229. 

hermits, 217. 

ice cream, 283. 

macaroni and cheese, 104. 

mayonnaise dressing, 263. 

molasses cookies, 217. 

muffins, 205. 

potatoes, creamed, 78. 

prunes, stewed, 20. 

rice pudding with eggs, 92. 

rice with cheese and tomatoes, 105. 

salads, 259. 

sandwich, 259. 

sherbet, milk, 28^. 
Fritters, 200-201. 
Frostings, 226, 227, 230-232. 

caramel, 231. 

chocolate, 230, 231, 232. 

cocoa, 232. 

coffee, 232. 

confectioners', 231. 

cooked, 230-231. 

fudge, 231. 

glaze, 227. 

maple, 231.. 

mocha, 232. 

mocha for sponge cake, 226. 

orange, 232. 

White Mountain, 230. 
Frozen mixtures, 269-283. 

binders, 272. 

classification, 273. 

experiments, 270-271. 

fillers, 272. 



Digitized by 



Google 



320 



INDEX 



Frozen mixtures, food values, 283. 

general discussion, 269-270. 

ice cream powders, 272. 

redpes, 274-281. 

references, 283. 

score cards, 282. 
Fruits, I, 11-21, 52, 296, 297. 

adds of, 2. 

apple sauce, 296. 

apricots stewed, 296. 

chemical composition, 11. 

combinations of, with cereals, 52, 
297. 

cooking, reasons for, 12. 

cranberry jelly, 296. 

dietetic value, 11. 

dried, general rules, 18. 

experiments, 13-15. 

food values, 20. 

general classes, 11, 22-24. 

general rules for preparation, 12. 

preservation, 22, 25, 33. See also 
Canning. 

purchasing, 12. 

redpes, 16-19. 

references, 20-21. 

rhubarb, baked, 296. 

score cards for preserved fruits, 
45. 

Gelatin, 124, 146-15!. 

as protein food, 124. 

culture media, 28. 

experiments, 147-148. 

general discussion, 146-147. 

redpes, 148-151. 

score cards, 151. 
Gingerbread, 103, 104, 223, 247. 
Grape, conserve, 42. 

juice, 1, 9, 38. 

spiced, 40. 
Grapefnut marmalade, 39. See also 

Fruits. 
Gravy, 136, 155. 
Griddlecakes, 198-199. 

com meal, 199. 

general rules, 199. 

sour milk, 198. 

sweet milk, 198. 

wheat, 198. 
Gruels, 56. 



Haddock, planked, 161. 
Hash, browned, 142. 
Honey (so called), 23. 

Ice creams, 274-276, 280. 

baked Alaska, 280. 

caramel, 275. 

chocolate, 276, 314. 

coflfee, 276. 

frozen custard, 274-275, 314. 

lacto, 276. 

molds, 280. 

prune, 275. 

strawberry, 274, 314. 

vanilla, 274. 
Ices, 277-279. 

apricot, 278. 

currant, 278. 

currant and raspberry, 278. 

ginger, 279. 

grape juice, 278. 

lemon, 277. 

mint, 279. 

orange, 277. 

peach, 278. 

pineapple, 278. 

raspberry, 278. 

strawberry, 278. 
Iodine test for starch, 13. 

Jam, 23. 

Jellies with gelatin, 148-149. 

coflfee, 149. 

fruit, 149. 

lemon, 149. 

orange, 149. 

prune, 149. 

wine, 149. 
Jelly making, 14, 18, 23, 32, $$-36, 

39- 
Junket, 86, 313. 

Lamb. See Meat. 

Lamb chops, 137. 

Lead' acetate solution, 3. 

Leavens — Leavening agents, 179. 

Lemonade, i, 9, 295. 

Lemon whey, 8. 

Lobster, 169-170. 

general directions, 169. 

Newbiu-g, 170. 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX 



321 



Macaroni, 207-209, 304. 

baked with cheese, 208, 304. 

boiled, 207. 

cheese and tomato sauce, 209. 

Italian style, 208. 
Macaroons, 150. 
Malic add, 2. 
Marmalades, 33, 39. 

grapefruit, 39. 

yellow tomato, 39. 
Meat, 123-152, 302, 303. 

beef, I3S-I43* 

broiling, 137. 

cakes, 142. 

casserole, 143. 

cuts of beef, 127-128. 

cuts of lamb, 130. 

cuts of mutton, 130. 

cuts of pork, 131. 

cuts of veal, 129. 

experiments, 125-126. 

general discussion, 123-124. 

hash, browned, 142. 

lamb chops, 137. 

left-over, 142-144. 

mutton chops, broiling, 137. 

recipes, 135-144- 

references, 151-152. 

roasting, 135. 

rules for tender cuts, 135-140. 

rules for tough cuts, 140-144. 

sauces, 144-146. 

score card, 146. 

table for roasting, 135. 

veal casserole, 143. 
Meringues, 212. 
Microorganisms, 25. 
Milk, 82-94. 

experiments, 83-89. 

food values, 92. 

general discussion, 82-83. 

recipes, 89-92. 

references, 93-94. 

sour, recipes using, 243-247. 
Millon test for protein, 13. 
Mineral matter. See Food Values and 
the general discussions of the dif- 
ferent foods. 
Molds, 25-26. 
Mousses, 280-281. 

chocolate, 381. 



Mousses, coffee, 280. 

fruit, 281. 

grape juice, 281. 

strawberry, 281. 
Muffins, Berkshire, 203. 

blueberry, 204. 

bran, 203. 

bran with com, 203. 

com meal, 202, 244, 307. 

entire wheat, 202. 

for fifty servings, 307, 308. 

general rules, 202. 

graham, 202, 308. 

hominy, 203. 

one egg, 202. 

rice, 203. 

southem pone, 204. 

southem spoon com bread, 204. 

wheat, 202, 307. 
Mutton. See Meat. 
Mutton chops, 137. 

Noodles, 208. 

Nutritive value of cooked foods, 19. 
See also Food Values. 

Oatmeal, 297. 

apples in sirup with, 52. 

gruel, 56. 

water, 9. 

with dates, 52. 
Oils, experiments, 260-261. 
Olives, 159, 256-257. 
Omelets, iio-iii, 98. 

cheese, 98. 

foamy, in. 

French, in. 
Onions, 59. 
Orangeade, i. 

Oven temperature, 175, 187. 
Oysters, 168-169. 

broth, 168. 

cocktail, 168. 

fricassee, 169. 

fried, 168. 

"pigs-in-blankets," 169. 

stew, 168. 

Pan-broiling, 137, 138. 
Parfaits, 281. 



Digitized by 



Google 



322 



INDEX 



Parfaits, golden, 281. 

silver, 281. 
Paxsnips, 68. 
Pastes, flour, 207-208. 

plain, 235. 

puff, 235. 
Pastry, 235-240. 

Banbury filling, 237. 

Banbury tarts, 236. 

cheese straws, 236. 

meringue, 237. 

patties, 236. 

tarts and turnovers, 240. 
Peaches, 37. 
Pears, 17, 40. 
Peas, 65. 
Pectin, 12, 14. 
Peppers, 

pickled, 44. 

stuffed, 69, 299. 
Pickles, 43-44. 

cucumber, 44. 

mustard, 43. 

red pepper, 44. 

sweet, 43. 

tomato, 44. 
Pickling, 24, 43-44. 

fruits suitable for, 24. 

recipes, 43-44- 

vegetables suitable for, 24. 
Pie, 237-240. 

apple, 239. 

chocolate, 237. 

coconut, 237. 

cream, 237. 

custard 238. 

green tomato mince, 240. 

lemon, 237. 

mince, 239. 

mock cherry, 238. 

pumpkin, 238. 

sour cream, 238. 
Popovers, 206. 
Pork. See Meat. 
Potassium acid tartrate, 2. 
Potato, 66-68, 298. 

apples, 67. 

mashed, 298. 

puff, 67. 

souffl6, 67. 

stuffed, baked, 66. 



Potato, sweet, glazed, 68. 

sweet, puff, 67. 
Poultry, 153-157. See also Chicken. 

boning, 154. 

cleaning and dressing, 153-154. 

general discussion, 153. 

redpes, 1 54-157- 

trussing, 154. 
Preserves, 22-46. 

definition, 33. 

experiments, 26-33. 

fruits, suitable for, 22. 

general directions for, 34. 

redpes, 39-42. 

references, 45-46. 

score card, 45. 

utensib necessary for, 33. 
Preserving, 22-46. See also Canning. 
Protein. See Experiments, Food Values, 
and the general discussions of the 
different foods. 
Prunes, stewed, 296. 

Puddhigs, 53-55, 65, 91-92, 244, 266- 
267, 279-280, 3H-314. 

apple tapioca, 53» 3i3- 

baked Indian, 54. 

bread, 91. 

chocolate bread, 92, 313. 

chocolate custard, 312. 

coffee cream, 311. 

coffee sago, 54. 

cofti, 6s, 299. 

cornstarch, 53. 

cup custard, 312. 

date, 266. 

fig, 267. 

frozen, 279. 

fruit, 267. 

graham, 244. 

hard sauce, 313. 

Hunter's, 267. 

jimket, 313. 

jimket, chocolate, 313. 

meringue, 313. 

Nesselrode, 279. 

Nessehode, sauce for, 28a 

orange, 55. 

plimi, 244, 267. 

queen of, 92. 

rice, 91, 312. 

shredded wheat, 55. 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX 



323 



Puddings, snow, 150, 311. 

snow balls, 267. 

soft chocolate custard, 312. 

soft custard, 312. 

steamed, 314. 

steamed Indian, 266. 

tapioca, 91. 
Pudding sauces, 268-269, 274, 280. 

classification, 268. 

chocolate, 274. 

cream, 269. 

hard, 268. 

lemon, 268. 

Nesselrode pudding, 280. 

Sabayon, 269. 

sterling, 268. 

vanilla, 269. 
Punch, fruit, 296. 
Purees, 76-77. 

black bean, 77. 

com, 75, 76. 

pea, 76. 

potato, 76. 

Quinces, baked, 17. 

Rarebit, Welsh, 98, 99. 
Raspberry vinegar, 38. 
References, 10, 20-21, 45"'46, s6-57. 8o~ 
81, 93-94. 105-106, 122, 151-152, 
171, 187-188, 264-265, 283, 294. 

beverages, 10. 

butter, 94. 

canning and preserving, 45-46. 

cereals, s6-S7' 

cheese, 105-106. 

eggs, 122. 

fish and shellfish, 171. 

flour and bread, 187-188. 

fruits, 20-21. 

ice cream, 283. 

meat, 1 51-152. 

milk, 93-94- 

oils, 264-265. 

soupS; 81. 

sugar, 294. 

vegetables, 80. 
Rhubarb, baked, 296. 
Rice, 47-52, 55, 91-92, 105, 143, 297. 

experiments, 49. 

creamed, 305. 



Rice, in sirup with apples, 52. 

methods of preparation, 51, 52, 91, 92^ 
143, 297, 302, 304, 305. 

with cheese and tomatoes, 105. 
Roasting, 135. 
Rolls, 192-195, 307. 

Dorcas, 192. 

glaze for, 195. 

hot cross buns, 194. 

limcheon, 194. 

Parker House, 192. 

Swedish, 193. 
Royal scallop, 144. 

Salads, 248-255, 261-263, 310-3 11. 

accessories served with, 251. 

combinations, 252, 253, 254. 

dressings, 249, 261-263. 

food value, 259. 

foundation, 248-249. 

general discussion, 248. 

greens, 248, 251. 

variations in dressing, 249-250. 

when served, 250-251. 
Salad dressings, 261-263. 

boiled, 262. 

cream, 262. 

French, 261, 262. 

mayonnaise, 263. 

Spanish, 262. 
Salmon. See Fish. 
Sandwiches, 255-259. 

conveyor of filling, 255-256. 

fancy, 258. 

fillings, 256-257. 

food value, 259. 

general rules, 255. 
Sauce, 144-146, 163-164, 268-269, 274 
280, 304. 

Bechamel, 163. 

brown, 144. 

brown mushroom, 145. 

chocolate, 274. 

classification, 268. 

cream, 269. 

Cuban, 145. 

drawn butter, 163. 

egg, 163. 

hard, 268. 

HoUandaise, 164. 

horseradish, 146. 



Digitized by 



Google 



324 



INDEX 



Sauce, lemon, 268. 

Maltre d'HAtel butter, 164. 

mock Hollandaise, 164 

mushroom, 145. 

Nesselrode, 280. 

tartare, 164. 

tomato, for rice or macaroni, 304. 

Sabayon, 269. 

Spanish, 146. 

sterling, 268. 

vanilla, 269. 
Scalloped dishes, 73-74. i44» 303. 

apples, 74. 

crumbs for, 73. 

general rules, 73. 

meat, 303. 

oysters, 306. 

royal, 144. 

tomatoes, 74. 

vegetables, 73. 
Score cards, 45, 121, 146, 151, 195-197, 
205, 216, 227-228, 241-242, 282. 

biscuits, 196, 197. 

bread, 195. 

canned fruits, 45. 

cookies, 216. 

croquettes, 121. 

custard ice cream, 282. 

gelatin desserts, 151. 

layer cake, 228. 

loaf cake, 227. 

meat roast, 146. 

muffins, 205. 

Philadelphia ice cream, 282. 

pies, 241, 242. 

preserves, 45. 

sherbets and ices, 282. 

sponge cake, 228. 
Shad roe, 161. 
Shellfish, 165-171. 
Sherbets, 276-277. 

combination, 277. 

milk, 276. 

orange, 277. 
pineapple, 277. 
Smelts, 161. 
Soda (sodiiun bicarbonate), 86, 180, 

181. 
Souffles, 67, 69, 100, 113-115. 
cheese, 115. 
cheese, com and, 115. 



Souffles, cheese, with pastry, loa 
custard, 114. 
essentials for, 113. 
fruit, 114. 
lamb, 144. 
lemon, 114. 
meat, 115. 
potato, 67. 
squash, 69. 
varieties, 114. 
vegetable, 115. 
Soups, loo-ioi, 132-134. {See also 
Cream, and Purees.) 
brown stock, 133, 300. 
chicken, 133. 
cream of celery, 75, 300. 
cream of com, 300. 
cream of potato, 300. 
cream of tomato, 75, 300. 
Creole, 134, 301. 
general discussion, 132. 
macaroni, 302. 
meat left from, 132-133. 
milk and cheese, 100. 
Mongole, 134, 301. 
noodle, 302. 
rice, 302. 

stock classification, 132. 
to clear stock, 133. 
uses for stock, 132. 
vegetable, 134, 301. 
vegetable and cheese, loi. 
Spaghetti, 207, 209. 
boiled, 207. 
loaf, 209. 
Spanish cream, 150. 
macaroon, 150. 
plain, ISO. 
Spinach. See Vegetables. 
Sponges, gelatin, 149. 
chocolate, 149. 
pineapple, 149. 
Squash, 69-70. 
baked siunmer, 70. 
souffl6, 69. 
winter, 69. 
Starch. See Experiments. 
Steak, stuffed flank, 144. 
Stuffing, 
for chicken, 155. 
for fish, 160. 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX 



325 



Stuffing, for flank steak, 136. 
Sugar, 34, 285-290. 

canning with, 34. 

canning without, 34. 

experiments, 285-286. 

fondant, 286-287. 

uses, 287-290. 

Sweetbreads, 139, 140. 

broiled, 139. 

creamed, 140. 
Sweet potatoes, 67, 68, 299. 

Tannin, 3. 

Tartrate, potassium add, 2. 

Tea, 1-4, 6-7, 295. 

experiments, 3-4. 

recipes, 6-7, 295. 
Temperatures. See Experiments, 

Oven Temperature. 
Theine, 2. 
Theobromine, 2. 
Timbale cases, 199-200. 
Tomatoes, 37, 38, 44, 74, 299. 

canned, 37. 

marmalade, 39. 

pickled, 44. 

scalloped, 74. 

stewed, 299. 

Veal. See Meat. 
Veal en Casserole, 143, 



and 



Veal loaf, 303. 

Vegetables, 22, 24, 58-73* loi, 159, 298, 
299. 

classification, 58^59. 

creamed, 73. 

en Casserole, 70. 

experiments, 60-64. 

general discussion, 58. 

general rules for cooking, 60. 

methods of preservation, 22. 

points to emphasize, 59. 

reasons for cooking, 59. 

scalloped, 73. 

suitable for canning, 24. 

suitable for pickling, 24. 

suitable with fish, 159. 

ways of serving, 60. 
Volatile oils, 3. 

Waffles, 198-199. 

corn meal, 199. 

general rules, 199. 

sour milk, 198. 

sweet milk, 198. 

wheat, 198. 
Welsh rarebit, 98, 99. 
Whey, lemon, 8. 

^Xanthoproteic reaction for proteins, 85. 

Yeasts, 26. 



Printed in the United States of America. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE following pages contain advertisements of a 
few of the Macmillan books on kindred subjects. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



A Laboratory Hand-book for Dietetics 

By MARY SWARTZ ROSE, Ph.D. 

Assistant Professor. Department of Nutrition, Teachers College, Coltunbia University 

Cloth, 8vo, $1,10 

Investigations into the quantitative requirements of the human body have progressed sa 
Cur as to make dietetics to a certain extent an exact science, and to emphasize the importance 
of a quantitative study of food materials. This little book explains the problems involved in 
the calculation of food values and food recjuirements, and the construction of dietaries, and 
furnishes reference tables which will minimize the labor involved in such work without limiting 
dietary study to a few food materials. ^ 

Only brief statements of the conditions affecting food requirements have been made, the 
reader being referred to general textbooks on the subject of nutrition for fuller information, 
but such data have been included as seem most useful in determining the amount of food fol 
any normal individual under varying conditions of age and activity. 

TABLE OP CONTENTS 

Part 1 

Pood Values and Podd Requirements. 

The Composition of Food Materials. 
The Functions of Food. 

Food as a Source of Energy. 

Food as Building Material. 

Food in the Regulation of Body Processes. 
Food Requirement. 

The Energy Requirement of Normal Adults. 

The Energy Requirement of Children. 

The Energy Requirement of the Aged. 

The Protem Requirement. 

The Fat and Carbohydrate Requirement. 

The Ash Requirement. 

Part II 
Problems in Dietary Calculations. 

Studies in Weight, Measure, and Cost of Some Common Food Materials. 

Relation between Percentage Coniposition and Weight. 

Calulation of the Fuel Value of a Single Food Material. 

Calculation of the Weight of a Standard or xoo-Calorie Portion. 

Food Value of a Combmation of Food Materials. 

Distribution of Foodstuffs in a Standard Portion of a Single Food MateriaL 

Calculation of a Standard Portion of a Combination of Food Materials. 

Analysis of a Recipe. 

Modification of Cow's Milk to a Required Formula. 

Calculation of the Percentage Composition of a Food Mixture. 

The Calculation of a Complete Dietary. 

Scoring of the Dietary. 

Reference Tables. 

Refuse in Food Materials. 

Conversion Tables — Grams to Ounces. 

Conversion Tables — Ounces to Grams. 

Conversion Tables — Pounds to Grams. 

Food Values in Teims of Standard Units of Weight. 

Ash Constituents in Percentages of the Edible Portion. 

Ash Constituents in Standard or xoo-Calorie Portions. 

Appendix 
Tbe Equipment of a Dietetics Laboratory. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Aytnut New Tork 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Food Products 



By henry C. SHERMAN 
Professor of Food Chemistry in Columbia University 

Illustrated^ cloth, i2mo, ^g^. pages, $2^J 

A comprehensive, descriptive text-book on the gen- 
eral subject of foods. The first and second chapters 
deal with the principal constituents and functions of 
food and with food legislation ; then follow chapters 
on : Milk ; Cheese and Other Milk Products ; Eggs, 
Meats and Meat Products ; Poultry, Fish and Shell- 
fish ; Grain Products ; Vegetables, Fruits and Nuts ; 
Edible Fats and Oils; Sugar, Molasses, Sirups and 
Confectionery; and Food Adjuncts. The plan of 
the book makes it easy for the teacher to follow a 
different order of topics if desired. 



" Admirable.'* — Science. 

" A really excellent text-book." 

— Educational Review. 

" A valuable contribution to the literature of foods 
as well as a scientific presentation of many new facts 
regarding food values." — Insurance. 

" A scientific study of great value." 

— New York Times. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

FubliilierB 64-66 Fifth Avenue New Tork 



Digitized by 



Google 



By henry C. SHERMAN, Ph.D. 

Professor in Columbia University 

Chemistry of Food and Nutrition 

Clothf i2mo, via + JSS pages, %i*5o 

The purpose of this volume is to present the principles of 
the chemistry of food and nutrition with special reference to 
the food requirements of man and the considerations which 
should underlie our judgment of the nutritive values of food. 
The food is here considered chiefly in its nutritive relations. 
It is hoped that the more detailed description of individual 
foods and the chemical and legal control of the food indus- 
try may be treated in a companion volume later. 

The present work is the outgrowth of several years' experi- 
ence in teaching the subject to collegiate and technical 
students who have represented a considerable diversity of 
previous training and points of view, and, while published 
primarily to meet the needs of the author's classes, it is 
hoped that it may also be of service to students and teachers 
elsewhere and to general readers whose main interest may 
lie in other fields, but who appreciate the importance of food 
and nutrition as factors in hygiene and preventive medicine. 

While neither the size nor the purpose of this book would 
permit an historical or technically critical treatment, a limited 
number of historical investigations and controverted views 
have been mentioned in order to give an idea of the nature 
and validity of the evidence on which our present beliefs 
are based, and in some cases to put the reader on his guard 
against theories which, while now outgrown, are still some- 
times encountered. 

PUBLISHED BY 

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

64-66 Fifth Avenue, New Tork 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Household Bacteriology 



ESTELLE D. BUCHANAN, M.S. 
Recently Assistant Professor of Botany, Iowa State College 



ROBERT EARLE BUCHANAN, Ph.D. 

Professor of Bacteriology, Iowa State College, and Bacteriologist of the 
Iowa Agricultural Experiment Station 

aoth, 8uo, xv+S36pp., index, $2.40 

The word Household is used as an extension rather than a limitation uf the 
title. In a thoroughly scientific manner the authors treat the subject-matter 
of general as well as of household bacteriology and include, therefore, the 
true bacteria as well as the yeasts, molds, and protozoa. The volume is, 
therefore, a general textbook of micro-biology in which special atte->^.:on is 
given to those problems which are of particular interest to the s; aent of 
household science. The main divisions of the book treat (i) the micro- 
organisms themselves, (2) fermentations with special reference tu those 
affecting foods, (3) the relations of bacteria and other micro-organisms to 
health. A fully illustrated key (comprising 37 pages) to the families and 
genera of common molds supplements the unusually extended discussion of 
the morphology and classification of yeasts and molds, and makes possible 
the satisfactory identification of all forms ordinarily encountered by the 
student. The work embodies the results of the most recent researches. The 
book is exceptionally well written, the different topics are treated con- 
sistently and with a good sense of propoi^tion. While concise in statement, it 
is thorough in method and scope. It is, therefore, well adapted for use as a 
text not only /or students of household science^ but also for those to whom it is 
desired to present the science of bacteriology from an economic and sanitary 
rather than from a strictly medical point of view. 

"The book is a concisely written work on micro-biology, a branch of 
economic science that the public is beginning gradually to understand, has 
important relationship to the total welfare and prosperity of the community. 
. . . The manual can be recommended as a very good elementary bacterid 
ology. It comprises about all there is of practical domestic value." 

— Boston AdverHur* 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishen 64-66 Fifth Avenue Kew York 



Digitized by 



Google 



Textiles 

A Handbook for the Student and the Consumer 

BY 

MARY SCHENCK WOOLMAN, B.S. 

President of the Women's Educational and Industrial Union, Boston, acting head 

of the Department of Household Economics, Simmons College, recently 

Professor of Domestic Art in Teachers College 



ELLEN BEERS McGOWAN, B.S. 

Instructor in Household Arts in Teachers College, Columbia University 
Illttstraied, Cloth, i2mo, xi-\-428 pp.. Index ^ Bibliography, $2.00 

This book is the result of twenty years* experience in teaching textiles to 
college students. It is intended as a textbook for college classes or for study 
clubs and as a guide for the housekeeper or individual consumer of textiles 
and clothing, the teacher, the club woman, the saleswoman, and as an intro- 
ductory survey of the subject for the student who contemplates professional 
work in the textile industries. 

The growing emphasis upon textile study in college departments of home 
economics or household arts, and the increasing use of the textile industry as 
teaching material in other departments and other grades of schools, shows a 
recognition of the part that the textiles are playing in the development of 
civilization and in our everyday life. Interest in the subject is still further 
accentuated by the movements now on foot to regulate the social-economic 
conditions in the textile and clothing industries and to secure standardization 
and honest labeling of textile products, as is being done for food products by 
the " pure food laws." 

To meet the existing need the authors have attempted to prepare a text 
suitable for use in college classes or by the public, shorter and more readable 
than the technical handbooks, yet sufficiently thorough and comprehensive to 
give a sound grasp of the subject as a whole with so much of the technology 
as is directly helpful to the consumei and as should be included in general 
courses in colleges and technical or vocational schools. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Fublishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New Tork 



Digitized by 



Google 



Physi 



ics of the Household 

By C. J. LYNDE 

Professor of Physics in Macdonald CoVLege, Canada 

lUustrakd, i2fno, $1,23 

This book presents in an exceptionally clear and direct manner the 
subject matter of a concise yet sufficiently comprehensive course for those 
beginning the study of physics whether in the college, the technical insti- 
tute, or the secondary school. The principles are made clear by applica- 
tion to household affairs and other every- day experiences. Although 
adapted to the requirements of beginners, those who have previously 
studied physics will also welcome the concise review of principles and the 
many applications and illustrations. In addition to its merits as a text- 
book, it constitutes a most interesting and useful manual on household 
appliances and processes. Any one who is interested either in knowing 
just how the familiar appliances work, or in equipping a house kccording 
to the most modern methods, will find in Professor Lynde's book a wealth 
of stimulating and highly practical information. 



Elementary Household Chemistry 
By J. F. SNELL 

Professor of Chemistry in Macdonald Collie, Canada 

Illustrated, i2mo, $i.2S 

In this textbook are to be found many new features both in the selec- 
tion and in the presentation of its subject matter. The principles of 
chemistry are developed and their every-day applications are studied 
simultaneously. The book is the outgrowth of a course given by the 
author for the last six years to students of high school and college age, but 
of varying degrees of preliminary training. The course has, therefore, 
been simple and the aim has been to introduce only such principles as 
find immediate application in connection with household work, but to 
present these principles in a correct and truly scientific manner. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

FubUslierB 64-66 Fifth Ayenue New Tork 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 




Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES 



3 3433 07736255 







M 




\ / - 



N/ 



A LABORATORY MANUAL OF 
FOODS AND COOKERY 




THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

NEW YORK BOSTON CHICAGO DALLAS 
ATLANTA SAN FRANCISCO 

MACMILLAN & CO., LIMITED 

LONDON BOMBAY CALCUTTA 
MELBOURNE 

THE MACMILLAN CO. OF CANADA, LTD. 

TORONTO 



A LABORATORY MANUAL OF 
FOODS AND COOKERY 






BY 



EMMA B. MATTESON 

INSTRUCTOR IN HOME ECONOMICS, GEORGE PEABODY 
COLLEGE FOR TEACHERS 

AND 

ETHEL M. NEWLANDS 

DIRECTOR OF HOME ECONOMICS, THE BUFFALO 
TECHNICAL HIGH SCHOOL 



, M . , 

- .- 



' -. * 



. 

o . < . ', t 

1 J ' 



o 1 



- o 1 



. , 






THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

1916 



rights reserved 



THE NEW YC 
PUBLIC LIBRARY 

739224 

ASTOR, LFNOX AND 
"TILDEN FOUNDATIONS 

R 19 6 L 



COPYRIGHT, 1916, 
BY THE MACMILLAN COMPANY. 



Set up and electrotyped. Published June, 1916. 






I I 

. : 



< 



* 


t 



t < ' 



- . 









> 









. 



Norfoooti 

J. 8. Gushing Co. Berwick & Smith Co. 
Norwood, Mass., U.S.A. 



PREFACE 

TEACHING experience has shown the need of a textbook ap- 
proaching the study of foods and cookery through experimental 
work in chemistry, bacteriology, and biology. In this book, 
therefore, under each topic a considerable number of experi- 
ments will be found. The performance of these experiments 
and the answering of the questions which arise from them will 
give the student a firsthand acquaintance with the leading char- 
acteristics of each kind of food, will furnish a basis for the 
discussion of the procedures used in cookery, and should give 
her such a grasp of the principles involved as will enable her to 
work without recipes, or to develop her own. The attainment 
of such mastery on the part of the student is, however, greatly 
facilitated by practice with a considerable number of recipes 
which have already been thoroughly tested, just as in other ex- 
perimental sciences, the student is taught in part through prac- 
tice with explicit and workable laboratory directions. Hence, 
in addition to the experiments, the present work will be found 
to contain thoroughly tested recipes in adequate number and 
variety to permit of choice. It has also seemed wise to include 
a considerable number of " score cards " to facilitate judgment 
of the finished product ; and of illustrative calculations of nutri- 
tive values of typical cooked foods. Each chapter has been 
made sufficiently complete in itself so that the topics may be 
taken up in any desired sequence and not necessarily in the 
order followed in the book. 

This Laboratory Manual was worked out through the corre- 
lated experience of the authors at Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, and 
Simmons College, Boston, and is amplified by their individual 



VI PREFACE 

experiences in the Public Schools of New York City and New 
Haven ; the State Normal School at Winona, Minnesota ; The 
School of Education of The University of Chicago ; and The 
Diet School of Johns Hopkins Hospital. 

The authors desire to acknowledge the help given by Pro- 
fessor Ada Field of George Peabody College for Teachers, in 
the revision of the manuscript, and to express their appreciation 
of the encouragement received from Dr. Henry Clapp Sherman, 
of Columbia University. 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER I 
Beverages 

PAGE 

Food value of beverages. The methods of serving beverages. 
Fruit acids. The stimulants of beverages. Experiments with tea, 
coffee, chocolate, and cocoa. Recipes for preparation of stimulating 
and nutritive beverages. Recipes for cereal waters. References . 1 

CHAPTER II 

Fruits 

Classification. Composition and nutritive value. General rules 
for preparation. Reasons for cooking fruit. How to purchase fruit. 
Experiments with fruits. Recipes for preparation of fresh and dried 
fruits. Food value of apple sauce and stewed prunes. References . 11 

CHAPTER III 

Canning and Preserving 

Methods of preservation of fruits and vegetables. Experiments 
with fruits and vegetables. General rules for canning and preserv- 
ing. General directions for canning and preserving. Recipes. 
Score card for canned fruits, preserves. References ... 22 

CHAPTER IV 

Cereals 

Composition and nutritive value. How to purchase cereals. 
Reasons for cooking cereals. Methods of cooking. Methods of 
serving, variations in serving, differences in consistency. Table of 
time and amounts of water per unit of cereal. General rules for 
cooking of cereals. Experiments. Recipes for cereals, cereals with 
fruits, farinaceous desserts, gruels. References .... 47 

vii 



Vlll CONTENTS 

CHAPTER V 
Vegetables and Vegetable Soups 

PAGE 

Composition and nutritive value. Classification. Points to em- 
phasize. Reasons for cooking vegetables. Ways of serving vege- 
tables. General principles. Experiments. Recipes for vegetables. 
White sauce, creamed vegetables, scalloped vegetables. Recipes for 
scalloped dishes, cream soups, and purees. Food values of baked 
beans, creamed potato, cream of pea soup, cream of tomato soup, 
cream of potato soup, cream of lentil soup, split pea soup. Refer- 
ences 58 

CHAPTER VI 

Milk, Cream, and Butter 

Composition and nutritive value. Experiments with cream, butter, 
buttermilk ; sweet milk, sour milk ; cheese ; absorption of odors. 
Recipes for junkets, custards, puddings. Food value of baked cus- 
tard, rice pudding with eggs. References ...... 82 

CHAPTER VII 

Cheese 

Composition and nutritive value. Recipes for cheese. (Experi- 
ments, see Chapter VI.) Food value of macaroni and cheese, rice 
with cheese and tomatoes. References ...... 95 

CHAPTER VIII 

Eggs, Souffles, and Croquettes 

Composition and nutritive value. Experiments. Recipes for eggs. 
Food value of scrambled eggs. Recipes for souffles. Experiments 
with fats for frying. Recipes for croquettes. Score card for cro- 
quettes. References .......... 107 

CHAPTER IX 

Meats, Stock Soups, and Gelatin 

Quality of good meat. Composition and nutritive value. Pre- 
served meat. Meat experiments. Cuts of beef, veal, lamb and mut- 



CONTENTS IX 

PAGE 

ton, pork. Soups. Recipes for stock soups ; recipes for meats ; 
meat sauces. Score card for roast of meat. Gelatin. Composition 
and nutritive value. Experiments with gelatin. Gelatin desserts. 
Food value of snow pudding. Score card for gelatin desserts. 
References ............ 123 

CHAPTER X 
Poultry 

Quality. Composition and digestibility. Dressing and cleaning 
poultry. Trussing poultry. Directions for boning poultry or birds. 
Recipes for poultry : sauces 153 

CHAPTER XI 
Fish and Shellfish 

Classes of fish. Freshness of fish. Composition and nutritive 
value. Preserved fish. Vegetables suitable for serving with fish as 
a garnish. Sauces for fish. Fish in combination with other food. 
Cleaning fish. Boning fish.' Methods of cooking. Aim in cooking 
fish. Recipes for fish. Fish sauces. Food value of creamed cod- 
fish on toast. Shellfish : oysters, clams, scallops, lobsters, crabs. 
Recipes. References 158 

CHAPTER XII 
Flour Mixtures 

Composition and nutritive value. Experiments with flour, bread, 
muffins, baking powder biscuits, pastry, cake. Experiments with 
leavens : sodium bicarbonate, yeasts. Classification of flour mix- 
tures. References 172 

CHAPTER XIII 
Batters and Doughs 

Recipes : bread, light, quick ; rolls, sticks, buns. Score cards for 
bread, raised biscuits ; recipes for baking powder biscuits, variations 
in baking powder biscuits. Food value of baking powder biscuits. 
Score card for baking powder biscuits. Recipes for griddlecakes 
and waffles ; timbale cases ; fritters ; doughnuts ; muffins. Food 



CONTENTS 

PAGE 



value of plain muffins. Score card for muffins. Recipes for pop- 
overs, cream puffs, flour pastes. Classification of cookies. Recipes 
for cookies. Food value of molasses cookies, hermits. Score card 
for rolled cookies, dropped cookies ..... 



CHAPTER XIV 

Cake 

General rules for mixing. General rules for baking. Recipes for 
butter cakes, molasses cakes, sponge cakes, angel food cakes. Food 
values of hot water gingerbread, chocolate cake, hot water sponge 
cake. Score cards for loaf cake, layer cake, sponge cake. Recipes 
for cooked frostings ; uncooked frostings ; cake fillings . . . 218 



CHAPTER XV 

Pastry 

Recipes for plain paste ; puff paste ; cheese straws ; fillings for 
pies. Score cards for two-crust pie, one-crust pie, one-crust pie and 
meringue ......... 235 



CHAPTER XVI 

Flour Mixtures using Sour Milk, Buttermilk, Sour Cream 
Recipes for breads, puddings, cakes, cookies, gingerbread, dough- 



nuts 



243 



CHAPTER XVII 

Salads and Sandwiches 

Classification of salad greens, salad foundations, variations in salad 
dressings. Service of salads. To prepare salad greens. Combina- 
tions for salads. Food values of vegetable salad, romaine or lettuce 
salad. General rules for sandwiches. Classification of conveyors for 
filling ; classification of fillings. Food value of whole wheat bread 
and cheese sandwiches ......- 



CONTENTS XI 

CHAPTER XVIII 
Salad Dressings 

PAGE 

Experiments. Recipes for French dressing and variations ; cream 
dressing ; boiled dressing ; mayonnaise dressing. Food values of 
mayonnaise dressing, French dressing, boiled dressing. References 260 

CHAPTER XIX 

Desserts 

Recipes for steamed puddings, pudding sauces. Experiments with 
frozen desserts. Classification of frozen desserts. Recipes for frozen 
desserts ; ice creams, ices, sherbets, frappes, mousses. Food values 
of vanilla ice cream, milk sherbet. Score card for sherbets and ices ; 
Philadelphia ice cream ; custard ice cream. References for ice cream 266 

CHAPTER XX 

Sugar and Candy 

Composition and nutritive value of sugar. Experiments with sugar. 
General directions for fondant. Directions for using fondant. Reci- 
pes for candy, candied orange peel, salted almonds. References for 
sugar .......... . 284 

CHAPTER XXI 

Recipes for Fifty Servings 

Recipes for beverages, fruits, cereals, vegetables, cream soups, 
stock soups, meats, meat substitutes, fish, flour mixtures, salads, des- 
serts, frozen desserts .......... 295 



LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS 

AND COOKERY 



CHAPTER I 
BEVERAGES 

BEVERAGES are mixtures of liquids and flavoring material and 
may be classified as acid, albuminous, starchy, and stimulating. 
Acid beverages are lemonade, orangeade, grapejuice, and fruit 
punch. Albuminous beverages are liquids to which is added 
egg albumin, egg yolk, or milk. Starchy beverages are cereals 
cooked in ,a large quantity of water, as a gruel strained and 
cooked. Stimulating beverages are tea, coffee, cocoa, cocoa 
shells, and chocolate. 

Food value of beverages. Acid beverages are valuable be- 
cause of organic acids and mineral matter (" ash constituents ") 
present. Also because of sugar which is naturally contained 
as well as that usually added, the stimulation of peristaltic 
action, the diuretic action, and lastly the appetizing odor and 
taste. 

Albuminous and starchy beverages are valuable because of 
their increased nutritive value, and because they may be easily 
taken. Such beverages are primarily designed for invalids, and 
a considerable amount of nutriment can be taken in this form 
in the course of a day, especially as milk can be added and the 
nutritive value of a starchy drink thus greatly increased. 



2 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Stimulating beverages are valuable because of the food value 
of cream or milk and sugar usually served with them. Also 
because various food products, as bread, rolls, toast, cookies, 
crullers, cake, often accompany the beverage. 

The stimulant of tea, coffee, or chocolate when taken in strict 
moderation is usually not harmful to adults, but is often re- 
freshing and not followed by the depression which follows the 
stimulating effect of alcohol. 

For description of beverages and standards of purity see 
Sherman's Food Products, pages 436-438 and 465-469. 

Methods of serving beverages. Beverages to be served cold 
should be cooled in the refrigerator or ice cream freezer but 
should not have ice put in them. 

Beverages to be served hot should be served fresh from the 
fire and should not be reheated. Where boiling water is to be 
used, it should be fresh water boiled and not reboiled water. 
Tea and coffee should be made in a receptacle which can be 
tightly covered, as it is the aroma which we wish to preserve. 

Fruit beverages may be served with the grated rind of fruit, 
slices of fruit, small fruits as strawberries and cherries, whole 
cloves, apollinaris water, or vichy water. 

Stimulating beverages may be served hot, cold, or partly 
frozen. 

Tea may be served with milk, sugar, slices of lemon or orange, 
.whole cloves or lime drops. 

Coffee may be served with hot milk, cream, sugar. 

Chocolate may be served with milk, cream (whipped or un- 
whipped), sweetened chocolate grated and sprinkled on top of 
cream, marshmallow, stick cinnamon. 

Fruit acids. The characteristic acids of fruits are as follows : 
lemons and oranges, citric acid; apples, malic acid; grapes, 
potassium acid tartrate. 

The characteristic alkaloids found in stimulating beverages 
are for tea, theine ; coffee, caffeine ; chocolate, theobromine. 



BEVERAGES 3 

The theine of tea has been found identical with the caffeine 
of coffee. Tannin of tea influences its taste. (See experiments 
with tea.) Caffetannic acid influences the flavor of coffee. 
The flavor of both tea and coffee is doubtless also influenced 
by the volatile oils which they both contain but which are 
largely lost on long boiling. 

Of tea, coffee, and chocolate, the latter has much the highest 
food value. 

EXPERIMENTS 
Tea 

1. - -Prepare four cups of tea, A, B, C, D, in the following manner 
(use black tea) : 

A. i level tsp. tea, i c. boiling water (note the temperature 
at which the water boils). Pour the boiling water through the tea 
leaves, but do not allow the leaves to remain in the cup. 

B. i level tsp. tea, i c. boiling water. Pour the boiling 
water over the tea leaves and allow it to stand over the leaves 5 
minutes. Decant off the infusion. 

C. Repeat B, but do not decant the infusion. Allow it to 
cool and then reheat it. 

D. i level tsp. tea, i c. boiling water. Pour the boiling 
water over the leaves and continue the boiling for 5 minutes. 

Note the color, odor, and taste of each cup of tea. 

2. a. Test 2 tbsp. of each cup of tea with 5 drops of lead acetate 
solution. 1 

b. What change occurs? 

c. To what is this change due? 

d. Which method of making tea brings the most tannin into 
the infusion? 

1 Lead acetate solution. Dissolve 18 gm. of lead acetate in 70 ccm. of hot dis- 
tilled water; to this add n gm. of lead oxide. Boil the mixture for 30 minutes with 
occasional stirring, allow it to settle for a few minutes, and decant the clear liquid. 
Add enough distilled water to make the volume up to 81 ccm. For ordinary use 
take i part of this solution to 4 parts distilled water. This solution is used as 
a precipitant in testing infusions and fruit juices. 



4 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

3. - - Compare characteristics of black and green tea by preparing 
by the best method a cup of tea made from black tea and one made 
from green tea. Use for each cup - 

i tsp. tea i c. boiling water 

4. - - Compare various kinds of black tea by preparing a cup of 
tea from each of the following : 

" English Breakfast ' Orange Pekoe 

Flowery Pekoe Oolong 

Coffee 
Have ready the following : 

A. Coffee pot. 

B. Coffee pot and aluminum cup with perforated sides. 

C. Coffee pot and cloth bag. 

D. Percolator. 

f powdered 

E. Coffee I pulverized 

[ finely ground 

6. 1 - - a. Use : coffee pots A, B, C, and percolator D. 

powdered 



2 tbsp. coffee 



pulverized 



finely ground 

Use first the finely ground coffee, add i cup of cold water, 
place in the coffee pots and in the percolator, heat until the boiling 
point is reached. Boil 2 minutes, allow the beverage to stand with- 
out cooking 5 minutes. 

b. Note the color, clearness, odor, flavor. 

6. a. Repeat 5 a, using pulverized and powdered coffee in turn. 

6. Compare the results as to efficiency. 

c. Compare the results as to color, clearness, odor, flavor, 
oiliness. 

1 For convenience of reference experiments are numbered consecutively through- 
out the book. 



BEVERAGES 5 

7. - - Repeat the above experiments, boiling the coffee in each 
instance 4 minutes, 6 minutes, 10 minutes in turn. 

8. - - a. Prepare coffee by the methods used in 7 (boiling 4, 6, 10 
minutes), but before putting the coffee into the utensil add i tbsp. 
egg white. Note : Part of the class use ^ egg shell. 

b. Note the color, clearness, odor, flavor, oiliness. 

c. Does the egg white or shell produce any improvement? 
Explain. 

d. By what other method may coffee be cleared? 

9. - - a. Prepare coffee in the utensils used in the previous ex- 
periments. Try each of the coffees in succession. Use 2 tbsp. coffee 
and pour upon it i cup of vigorously boiling water. Do not allow 
beverage to boil, but simmer for i minute. 

b. Compare the results in each case as before. 

10. - - Prepare coffee as in 5 a using i c. boiling water instead of 
cold water. Allow the coffee to boil 4, 6, 10 minutes and compare 
with that made by other methods. 

Which method and which utensils produce the most accept- 
able beverage ? 

Is it possible to produce good results by more than one method? 

For each utensil which method is best and to what stage should 
the coffee be ground ? 

11. - - a. Test 2 tbsp. of coffee infusion made by each method 
with 5 drops of lead acetate. See page 3. 

b. Is the presence of tannic acid shown? 

c. By which method of making coffee is the most produced? 

Cocoa and Chocolate 

Prepare a paste of 2 tsp. cocoa and 2 tbsp. hot water. Use this 
to correspond with \ sq. chocolate. 

Perform each experiment first with cocoa, then with chocolate. 

12. - - a. Prepare cocoa and chocolate using : 

2 tsp. cocoa paste f | c. water 

i c. cold liquid < 
| sq. chocolate [ ^ c. milk 



6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

b. Pour the cold liquid on to the paste or chocolate. Cook 
in the double boiler 5 minutes after the liquid is hot. 

c. Compare each as to flavor, sweetness, color. 

d. What is the result when cold liquid is added to the paste 
or chocolate ? 

e. Is this a desirable method of preparing cocoa or chocolate ? 

13. - - Prepare cocoa and chocolate using the paste and \ sq. 
chocolate by heating the liquid first. Cook in the double boiler 5, 
10, 15 minutes, testing flavor and consistency at each stage. 

14. - - Prepare a paste of the chocolate by melting it over hot 
water and adding 2 tsp. hot water to \ sq. chocolate. 

a. Use the cocoa and chocolate paste and prepare bever- 
ages using i c. hot milk for each. Pour the hot liquid slowly on to 
the paste, mixing it in thoroughly each time until a smooth, brown 
mixture results. Cook this in a double boiler 15 to 20 minutes. 
Note the flavor and consistency as compared with previous methods. 

b. To this last beverage add 2 drops vanilla and a grain or 
two of salt. Is the flavor improved? Why? 

c. Beat the beverage with a Dover egg beater. Result? 
How do you explain the frothy consistency which results? 
What differences are noted between cocoa and chocolate as bever- 
ages? How are these accounted for? 

Hot Tea 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. tea 4 c. boiling water 

Method : 

Follow the method which was found most desirable in the experi- 
ments. 



Cold Tea I 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. tea 2 qt. cold water 

Method : 

Put tea in a pitcher or glass jar, turn in the cold water and allow it 
to stand overnight in the refrigerator. Decant the liquid from the 
leaves and serve ice cold. 



BEVERAGES 7 

Cold Tea II 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. tea 4 c. boiling water 

4 c. cold water 

Method : 

Prepare tea and boiling water as for hot tea. Dilute the infusion 
with the 4 cups of cold water. Decant from the tea leaves, allow 
the liquid to cool, and serve ice cold. 

NOTE : a. Cold tea is more appetizing if it is served about one half as 
strong as hot tea. 

b. In preparing hot tea use only water which is fresh and just 

beginning to boil. 

c. Do not use a tin teapot ; use a tea ball, crockery or china teapot. 

d. Do not use tea leaves a second time. 

e. Never allow tea to boil. 

/. Do not allow tea to stand over the tea leaves after steeping has 
been accomplished. If tea has to be kept hot for a time, 
turn the infusion from the leaves. 



Black Coffee 

Ingredients : 

i c. coffee ^ egg 

\ c. cold water 5 c. boiling water 

\ c. cold water 

Method : 

Mix coffee, \ c. cold water, and egg together, let stand ten minutes 
in coffee pot. Pour in boiling water and boil gently for five minutes. 
Remove to warm part of stove, add \ c. cold water, pouring some of 
it down the spout of coffee pot. Serve at once. 



Cocoa 

Ingredients : 

\ c. cocoa i c. water or coffee (hot) 

\ c. sugar 3 c. milk (hot) 

Method : 

Mix cocoa and sugar together in a saucepan, pour over the hot 
water or coffee and let boil until a syrup is formed (this cooks the 



8 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

starch in the cocoa). Add the hot milk, stirring it in slowly, return 
to a double boiler and let cook 15 to 20 minutes. A few grains of 
salt and a drop of vanilla may be added just before serving. Serve 
with whipped cream or beat to a froth with a Dover beater. 

Chocolate 

Ingredients : 

4 c. milk, 2 oz. chocolate 

or 2 c. milk and f c. sugar 

2 c. water j c. water (hot) 
Method : 

Grate or cut the chocolate into small pieces, place in upper part 
of a double boiler, add the sugar and \ c. of hot water. Allow the 
chocolate to melt and cook with the sugar until a smooth paste is 
formed. Add the milk or milk and water to this chocolate mixture, 
stirring it constantly with a wooden spoon and adding the liquid very 
slowly. When the liquid has been added, beat it vigorously with the 
Dover egg beater and then allow it to cook 15 to 20 minutes. 

NOTE : a. If flakes of chocolate appear, the liquid was added in too large 
quantities at a time. 

b. Always pour the liquid into the chocolate paste, otherwise the 

flakes will be sure to appear. 

c. The long cooking of both cocoa and chocolate is necessary because 

of the starch which is characteristic of both. 

d . The flavor of both chocolate and cocoa is improved by allowing it 

to stand 15 to 20 minutes in a warm place after cooking and 
before serving. 

Lemon Whey 

Ingredients : 

i c. hot milk 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

2 tbsp. sugar 
Method : 

Heat the milk in a double boiler. Add the lemon juice. Cook 
without stirring until the whey separates. Strain through cheese- 
cloth, and add the sugar. Serve hot or cold. Garnish with small 
pieces or slice of lemon. 



BEVERAGES 9 

Lemonade 

Ingredients : 

i lemon 2 tbsp. sugar 

i c. boiling water ^ thin slice lemon 

Method : 

Wash and wipe lemon ; cut a very thin slice from middle ; use this 
for garnish. Squeeze juice into a bowl (keeping back the seeds), 
add the sugar and boiling water ; cover, and put on ice to keep cool. 
Strain and pour into a glass or sherbet cup. Cut half the slice of 
lemon into two pieces, and use as garnish in glass; a few berries or 
slice of orange may be used. 

NOTE : The quantity of sugar in lemonade may be varied, depending upon 
the acidity of the fruit. 



Grape Juice and Egg 

Ingredients : 

i egg i tbsp. sugar 

\ c. rich milk \ c. grape juice 

\ tsp. powdered sugar 
Method : 

Beat the yolk and white separately very light. To the yolk add 
milk, sugar, and grape juice, and pour into glass. To the white add 
a little powdered sugar and a tbsp. of grape juice. Serve on yolk 
mixture. Chill all ingredients before using. 



Oatmeal Water 

Ingredients : 

i tbsp. oatmeal salt 

i tbsp. cold water i qt. boiling water 

Method : 

Mix oatmeal and cold water, add salt, and stir into the boiling 
water. Boil three hours ; replenish the water as it boils away. 
Strain through a fine sieve or cheesecloth. Season, serve cold. 
Different brands of oatmeal vary considerably in the amount of 
water which they take up in cooking, and sufficient should always 
be added to make this drink almost as thin as water. 



10 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Barley Water 

Ingredients : 

1 1 tbsp. pearl barley i qt. cold water 

salt 
Method : 

Wash barley, add cold water and let soak several hours or over 
night. Drain and add the fresh, cold water, boil gently over direct 
heat two hours, or in a double boiler steadily four hours, down to 
one pint, adding water from time to time ; season with salt. Strain 
through muslin. 

NOTE : Cream or milk may be added, or lemon juice and sugar. Barley 
water is a slightly astringent or demulcent drink used to re- 
duce laxative condition. 

REFERENCES 

BAILEY. Source, Chemistry, and Use of Food. 

BOLAND. Handbook of Invalid Cookery. 

FRIEDENWALD and RUHRAH. Diet in Health and Disease. 

HAUSMANN. Home Manufacture and Use of Unfermented Grape 

Juice. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' 

Bulletin No. 175 (1903). 
KAKUZO. The Book of Tea. 
KELLOGG, ELLA. Science in the Kitchen, Principles of Healthful 

Cookery. 

LEACH. Food Inspection and Analysis. 
LINCOLN and BARROWS. Home Science Cook Book. 
MEUNIER, L. Fruit Juices. Ontario Department of Agriculture, 

Fruit Branch Bulletin No. 200 (1912). 
PATTEE. Practical Dietetics with Special Reference to Diet in 

Disease. 

PRACTICAL DIETETICS. Demonstration Iowa State College Agri- 
culture Extension Department. Short Course Class Notes, 

No. 8. 

SACHSE. How to Cook for the Sick. 
SHERMAN. Food Products. 



CHAPTER II 
FRUITS 

FRUITS are divided into five general classes - - small fruits, 
orchard fruits, grapes, citrus fruits, and tropical fruits. 

These are available either in the fresh or dried state and all 
may be served raw or cooked. 

Fruits vary greatly in chemical composition. Their value 
in the diet is due chiefly to the ash constituents rather than to 
the protein, carbohydrate, or fat content. (See Sherman's 
Food Products, pages 335-338 for percentage composition and 
pages 347-349 for percentage of ash in the edible portion.) 

When their energy value (due chiefly to carbohydrates) and 
their relative richness in certain important ash constituents 
are considered, the staple fruits are found to be more econom- 
ical articles of food than is generally recognized. Except near 
the regions where grown, the dried fruits are usually more 
economical than the fresh. 

The dietetic value of fruits is greater than could be inferred 
from the percentage composition alone, because of their refresh- 
ing and other desirable qualities which cannot as yet be sub- 
jected to quantitative measurement. The agreeable " ethe- 
real ' and acid flavors of fruit are helpful to appetite and 
doubtless also to digestion. 

Fruit may be either a laxative or an astringent or both, as 
in the case of fruits which contain astringent substance in the 
skin, while the pulp is laxative. Fruit is also valuable for its 
antiscorbutic property and often seems to act as a mild and 

ii 



12 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

beneficial diuretic. The cellulose is useful in giving bulk to the 
food residues and preventing their stagnation in the intestine. 

A given fruit often shows quite different properties at differ- 
ent stages in ripening, the most distinct changes in composi- 
tion being usually a decrease in acid and starch with an increase 
in sugar content. Pectin substances present in underripe fruits 
cause fruit juices to jelly. 

The desirability of increasing the use of fruit as food and the 
variety of attractive properties possessed by fruits and fruit 
products, lend special interest to the subject of fruit cookery. 

General rules for preparation : 

Small and soft fruits need careful handling when washed. Fill 
bowl with cold water, put fruit in and remove with strainer or per- 
forated spoon in order not to crush. 

Hard fruits, if small, may be washed in a colander under running 
water, or if large wiped with a damp cloth. 

Decayed spots, bruises, or worm holes should be removed, prefer- 
ably with a silver knife. 

Cover pared fruits with cold water until ready to cook. 

Oranges, lemons, and grapefruit should be scrubbed with a brush ; 
bananas peeled and scraped, raspberries and blackberries removed 
from baskets with a fork to avoid crushing. 

Dried fruits should be examined and washed in several waters. 

Reasons for cooking fruit : 

To soften cellulose. 

In some instances to insure digestibility. 

To further variety in serving. 

In some instances to destroy bacteria. 

How to purchase : 

Fruits are economical when purchased in season, and if storage fa- 
cilities allow, should be bought in quantity. Freshness and cleanli- 
ness should receive first consideration. Dried fruits may take the 
place of fresh fruits when the latter are not in season. The cost of 
fruits varies with locality - - study the market in your own section. 



FRUITS 13 

EXPERIMENTS 
Apple 

15. 1 Grate an apple into a bowl. With a wooden spoon 
thoroughly mash the solid matter with the juice. 
What change in color is observed? 

16. - -Add about 2 tbsp. of water to the mixture obtained in Expt. 
15, and strain the liquid through wet cheesecloth into a bowl. Filter 
the juice through a wet fluted filter and keep it for Expt. 17 and 18 
below. To portions of the apple pulp apply : 

a. The Millon test ~ for protein. 

b. The iodine test for starch. 3 

17.- -To small portions of the clear filtered apple juice obtained 
in Expt. 16, apply the following tests: 

a. Heat about 10 cc. to boiling in a test tube and notice 
whether coagulation takes place. Filter through a wet fluted paper 
and test the residue on the paper by adding a few drops of nitric 
acid. If protein is present, it will be turned yellow by the nitric acid. 

b. Test for starch by adding iodine solution. (The portion 
of solution to which this test is applied must be cool.) 

c. Test for " reducing sugars " by mixing a small amount of 
the clear juice with an equal volume of the Fehling-Benedict 4 solution, 
allow to stand a minute and note any change of color, then boil for 
two minutes. (Reference should be made to Leach's Food Inspection 

1 For convenience the experiments are numbered consecutively throughout the 
book. 

2 Millon's reagent: One part, by weight, of mercury dissolved in two parts of 
strong nitric acid. Dilute the solution with twice its bulk of water. After standing 
24 hours, the supernatant liquid should be decanted from the precipitate. Proteins 
are colored red by this solution. Warming aids the development of the color. 

3 Starch, iodine reaction: To the material to be tested for starch add a few drops 
of iodine solution (iodine dissolved in a water solution of potassium iodide). A 
blue, violet, or purple color indicates the presence of starch. 

4 Fehling-Benedict solution : 

34.65 gm. crystallized copper sulphate made up to 500 cc. with distilled water. 

173 gm. Rochelle salt "I . , 

,. > made up to 500 cc. with distilled water. 

100 gm. anhydrous sodium carbonate J 



14 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

and Analysis, Sherman's Organic Analysis, or Woodmann's Food 
Analysis.} 

d. Test for proteins by means of Millon's reagent, making 
the test as closely comparable with that of the pulp as possible. 

18. - - Preparation of pectin. 1 

a. Neutralize the remaining apple juice with a sufficient 
quantity of caustic soda (sodium hydroxide) solution. 

b. Heat the neutral fluid to boiling to complete the coagu- 
lation of the protein. 

c. Filter on a wet fluted paper while the liquid is hot. 

d. To the cold nitrate in a beaker or glass add alcohol, little 
by little, in sufficient quantity to produce a bulky, gelatinous precipi- 
tate of pectin. An equal volume of alcohol may be required. (Save 
this for Expt. 19.) 

19. - - Properties of pectin. Continuing the work begun in Expt. 18 : 

a. Allow the alcohol to evaporate after decanting off as much 
as possible. 

b. Dissolve the pectin in water and concentrate by heating. 

c. Turn into beaker and let cool. The gelatinizing power 
of pectin will be shown. 

NOTE : Other fruits or vegetables may be used to further demonstrate the 
above principles. Compare the experiments on vegetables, 
jellies, and gelatin described in later chapters. 

20. --Decay of fruit (A). Place in a jar a number of apples that 
have been bruised or cut, packing them in rather tightly. Scatter 
in the jar some spores of the common mold which will usually 
be found on moldy lemon. Close the jar and set aside. Prepare 
a second jar with some whole clean apples and treat in the same 
way. Compare the two jars for a week or two to see if decay makes 
its appearance in either or both of the jars. Does bruising hasten 
the decay of the fruit? 

1 Pectin, to which the essential gelatinous consistency of fruit jellies is due, is a 
substance belonging to the group of carbohydrates. It is entirely different from 
gelatin, which is a peculiar protein obtained from bone and other animal tissues and 
forms the basis of animal jellies. 



FRUITS 15 

21. --Decay of fruit (B). Make a cut through the skin of an 
apple with a knife blade that has been previously dipped into the 
midst of a mass of mold spores. Put the apple aside in a jar and 
examine carefully until it decays. Note that the decay begins rather 
quickly and starts at the point of the cut where the spores were 
inoculated. 

22. - - Experiment. Apple Sauce 

i apple 2 tbsp. sugar 

5 tbsp. water tsp. nutmeg 

Prepare apple sauce by paring and slicing the apple and cooking 
it in the water until soft. Let half the class (a) add sugar at begin- 
ning of process ; the other half (ti) add sugar at end of process. 

Use the thermometer constantly and compare the temperatures 
throughout the making of the apple sauce. 

Account for differences in color, taste, and consistency. 

23. Experiment. Baked Apple 

Prepare baked apples in the following ways : in each case core and 
fill cavity with sugar. 

a. Wash and remove skin from apple. Bake in slow oven. 
(Temperature ?) 

b. Repeat with a second apple but bake in a hot oven. 
(Temperature ?) 

c. Wash and core third and fourth apples. Do not remove 
skin. Bake one in slow, and one in hot oven. 

d. Wash and core fifth and sixth apples. Make a slit around 
each apple, through the skin. Bake one in a hot oven, one in slow. 

Which method and temperature produces best result ? 



1 6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Baked Apples 

Ingredients : 

8 apples 4 c. sugar 

\ tsp. cinnamon 
Method : 

Select apples of uniform size. Wipe and core apples. Make an 
incision in the skin to allow steam to escape, place in baking dish, 
and fill cavities with sugar and spice. Surround apples with boiling 
water and bake in a hot oven until soft, basting frequently. 

Variations 

The apples may be pared before coring. The cores may be filled 
with : 

brown sugar sugar and lemon juice 

raisins and nuts sugar and orange juice 

cooked prunes and nuts cooked oatmeal and raisins 

jelly uncooked custard 

Steamed Apples 

\ 

Wipe, pare, and core apples. Place in double boiler, cover and 
steam until apples are soft. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Apples-in-Bloom 

Wipe and core red apples. Steam until tender and remove skins. 
The apples should be pink when steamed. 

Apple Sauce 

Ingredients : 

8 apples water 

i c. sugar nutmeg 

Method : 

Wipe, pare, and slice apples. Cook in a small amount of water 
until soft, add sugar and cook until sugar dissolves. Strain. Grate 
nutmeg over the sauce. 



FRUITS 17 

Stewed Apples 

Ingredients : 

8 apples i c. water 

i c. sugar 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

Method : 

Wipe and pare apples. Core and cut in halves, quarters, eighths, 
or circles, or cut in balls with vegetable cutter. Place in cold water 
while preparing a sirup of the sugar and water by boiling 3 minutes. 
Cook apples, a few at a time, in the sirup until soft. Remove all 
sirup, add lemon juice, and boil until thick. Strain the thick sirup 
and pour it upon the apples. 

Baked Bananas 

Peel bananas, scrape with silver knife, and cut in halves length- 
wise. Place on buttered pan, sprinkle with sugar and lemon juice, 
and bake in a slow oven until soft, basting often with the sirup. 

Bananas may also be baked in the skins. 

Baked Crabapples 

Crabapples should be left whole. If cooked slowly enough the 
liquid in the pan will form a red jelly. This should be served with 
the crabapples. 

Baked Quinces 

Ingredients : 

8 quinces f c. sugar 

1 1 c. water 

Method : 

e 

Wipe, quarter, core and pare quinces. Put in a baking dish, 
sprinkle with sugar, add the water, cover and cook until soft in a slow 
oven. 

Baked Pears 

Ingredients : 

8 pears i c. sugar 

i c. water 
Method : 

Same as for quinces. Small pears may be baked whole. 



1 8 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Cranberry Sauce 

Ingredients : 

i qt. cranberries 2 c. sugar 

2 c. water 
Method : 

Remove bruised berries, wash others in a strainer, and cook them in 
water until they begin to burst. Add sugar and cook until thoroughly 
soft. Skim. 

Cranberry Jelly 

Ingredients : 

i qt. cranberries 2 c. sugar 

i c. water 
Method : 

Cook cranberries in water until soft and press through a strainer. 
Add sugar to the pulp. Stir until sugar dissolves, then boil until it 
will jelly when dropped on a cold plate. Pour into molds previously 
wet with cold water. 

Spiced Cranberry Jelly 

Ingredients : 

i qt. cranberries 12 cloves 

1 c. water 3 allspice berries 

2 c. sugar small piece cinnamon 

| tsp. salt 
Method : 

Tie spices in cheesecloth. Cook with berries and water until 
berries are soft. Strain, and proceed as for cranberry jelly. 

Dried Fruit 

General Rules. 

1. Wash quickly in several waters. 

2. Soak in cold water overnight. 

a. Shortens time of cooking. 

b. Develops better flavor. 

c. Lessens amount of sugar required. 

3. Cook in this water until tender, using flame or the tireless 
cooker. 

4. Add sugar to softened fruit and cook a few minutes longer. 



FRUITS 19 

Prunes 

Ingredients : 

i Ib. prunes i qt. water 

i tbsp. lemon juice i tbsp. orange juice 

\ c. sugar 



Apricots 

Ingredients : 

i Ib. apricots i qt. water 

| c. sugar 



NUTRITIVE VALUES OF COOKED FOODS 

Because of variable changes in water content during cook- 
ing, as well as variations in recipes used, it is not satisfactory to 
attempt general statements of composition of cooked foods 
and as a rule only raw foods are included in the standard 
tables. It is, however, entirely feasible for the student of 
cookery in any given operation to weigh the ingredients and 
the final product and calculate the composition and food 
value of the latter. Full directions and data for such cal- 
culations will be found in Rose's Laboratory Handbook for 
Dietetics. 

To illustrate and encourage such calculations the food values 
of typical cooked foods will be shown at intervals throughout 
this book and it is recommended that the laboratory work in 
cookery be made to include the accurate weighing of the fin- 
ished product and the calculation of its food value in as many 
cases as possible. 

For the sake of completeness and because of the im- 
portance now attached to these three elements, the food 
values here given include data for calcium, phosphorus, and 
iron. When time is limited, the protein, fat, carbohy- 
drates, calories, and cost may be calculated without the ash 
constituents. 



20 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



EXAMPLES OF CALCULATED FOOD VALUES 

Apple Sauce 













H 






O 


cn^ 






a 

H 


S t" 


4 t/5 


CD 


1 <" 


j " 






S tn 


01 




C/2 


| 


H S 


H 


s 


j *^ 

2 S 


H 
en 


M M 6 


M tn C 


^ c 


MATERIAL 


H 







^s 


J 


H O 
HJ 

H < 


O 

O 


$60 


1 


^0 




^ 


^ 


PH 




prf 


U 




^"rt 


9 ~ 














< 






CJ 
















CJ 












Apples 


3 


159 


.64 


79 


22.58 


100 


.034 


.022 


05 


.0005 


Sugar . 


6 tbsp. 


80.2 






80.2 


321 


.0106 








Water . 


\ c. 




















Total cooked 


- c 


239.2 


.64 


79 


102.78 


421 


.0446 


.022 


05 


.0005 


loo-Calorie \ 
Portion 1 J 


3 tbsp. 


56.95 


15 


.19 


24.47 


100 


.0106 


.005 


.012 


.0001 



Stewed Prunes 



















i 




Prunes 


25 


226.8 


4.08 




141.07 


580 


.06 


.116 


.464 


.0052 


Sugar . . . 


5i tbsp. 


75 






75 


300 


.008 








Water . . . 


2C. 




















Total cooked 


i|c. 


538 


4.08 




216.07 


880 


.068 


.116 


.464 


.0052 


loo-Calorie \ 
Portion l / 


3 prunes 
+ sirup 


60.7 


.46 




24.42 


IOO 


.008 


.013 


.052 


.0006 



REFERENCES 

HAUSMANN. Home Manufacture and Use of Unfermented Grape 

Juice. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' 

Bulletin, 644 (1915). 
LANGWORTHY. Raisins, Figs and other Dried Fruits and Their 

Use. United States Department of Agriculture, Yearbook 

for 1912, pages 505-522. 
LANGWORTHY. Use of Fruits as Food. United States Department 

of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, No. 293 (1907). 

1 Also called Standard Portion (S. P.) 



FRUITS 21 

LANGWORTHY and MILNER. Some Results Obtained in Studying 
Ripening Bananas with the Respiration Calorimeter. Year- 
book of U. S. Department of Agriculture for 1912. 

MILAN and GARDNER. Comparative Cooking Qualities of Some of 
the Common Varieties of Apples Grown in Oregon. Oregon 
Agricultural College Experiment Station, Bulletin No. 124. 

MORSE. The Cold Storage of Apples. New Hampshire College 
Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin No. 93 (1902). 

ROSE, FLORA. Preservation of Food in the Home. Part i, Cornell 
Reading-courses. Food Series No. 4. 

SCOTT. Fruit Addition to the Diet of the Growing Child. Ameri- 
can Medicine, vol. 19, pages 416-420 (1913). 

SHERMAN. Food Products. 



CHAPTER III 
CANNING AND PRESERVING 

Fruit 

Fruit and vegetables may be preserved when in season for 
use out of season by the following methods : 

i. canning, various methods 2. preserving, various stages 

3. jelly making 4. pickling 

5. spicing 6. salting 

7. drying 

All fruits and vegetables are not prepared in the same way. 
Suitable for canning are : 

a. Fruits 

pears plums strawberries 

peaches pineapple raspberries 

apricots cherries blueberries 

apples blackberries 

b. Vegetables 

peas carrots beans 

corn asparagus beets 

tomatoes 

Fruits suitable for preserving are : 

a. Preserve 

strawberries quince blackberries 

large currants grapes cranberries 

plums gooseberries 

22 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 



b. Jam 

strawberries 

plums 

elderberries 

c. Marmalades 



grapes 

raspberries 

cranberries 



blackberries 
currants 



apricot 

plums 

peaches 

apple - - sweet, sour 

crabapple 



yellow tomato 



d. Butlers 

crabapple 
quince 

e. " Honey " (so called) 

sweet apple lemon 

grapefruit yellow tomato 

/. Conserves 

plums, oranges, and lemon 
plums, lemon, raisins 
grapes, lemon 
raisins, rhubarb 
figs, rhubarb 
peach, lemon, orange 



cranberry 

grapefruit 

lemon 

quince 

orange 



apple 
grape 



quince 
kumquat 



peach, currants, lemon 
pears, lemon, ginger root 
prunes, lemon, orange 
orange, grapefruit, lemon 
kumquat, orange 
cranberries, lemon, raisins 



nuts in combination with any of the above 

Fruits suitable for jelly making are : 

a . Very juicy fruits 

strawberries 

raspberries 

blackberries 



elderberries 

plums 

currants 



grapes, cultivated and wild 



24 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

b. Less juicy fruits 

peaches quince 

apricots cranberries 

apples - - sweet, sour, crabapple 

Fruits suitable for pickling are : 

tomatoes - - red, yellow peaches 

blackberries pears 

cucumbers peppers - - red, green 

Vegetables suitable for pickling are : 

cauliflower beets 

cabbage onions 

Fruits suitable for spicing are : 

blackberries pears 

peaches red tomatoes 

Fruits suitable for salting are : 
cucumbers, large and small 

Fruits suitable for drying are : 

currants apricots 

grapes plums 

peaches prunes 

pears cranberries 

apples - - sweet, sour 

Fruits suitable for beverages are : 

grapes apples - - sweet, sour 

currants cherries 

raspberries lemons 

elderberries oranges 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 25 

Preservation of fruits is secured by : 

1. Heat and exclusion of air 
Ex. - - canned peaches 

2. Exclusion of air but heat not necessary because the mate- 

rial itself is strongly acid. 
Ex. - - canned tomato, canned rhubarb 

3. Strong acids. 

Ex. - - pickled pears 

4. Strong brine 

Ex. - - salted cucumbers 

5. Heavy solution of sugar. 

Ex. - - preserves, jams, conserves, butters, honey, jellies. 

Relation to Microorganisms 

All the above methods of preserving fruits and vegetables 
depend upon either destroying, or preventing the action of 
microorganisms which would cause the food to ferment, decay, 
or become moldy. 

The microorganisms which thus spoil or injure food are cer- 
tain species of the three groups : 

a. Molds. 

b. Yeasts. 

c. Bacteria. 

Molds are seen often as yellow, green, or white growths, very 
beautiful in color and arrangement, upon lemons, oranges, 
bread, jams, jellies, and sirups. 

Some typical forms often found on food are : 

bread mold - - Mucor stolonifer 

green cheese mold, or blue mold - - Penicillium glaucum 



26 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

mold of decaying vegetation : 

blue green - - Aspergillus f umigatus 
yellow - - Aspergillus flavescens 
black - - Aspergillus niger. 

Yeasts cannot usually be seen without the microscope, but 
evidence of their work is shown by fermentation of fruit juices 
accompanied by bubbles of gas or a loud pop when a cork or 
cover is removed. 

Bacteria are all too small to be seen without a good micro- 
scope. The work of bacteria is shown generally by a disa- 
greeable sour taste often accompanied by an unpleasant odor 
with or without an evolution of gas. 

The following experiments will illustrate the work of molds, 
yeasts, and bacteria, but the detailed study of these organisms 
and the changes which they bring about in food materials is a 
science in itself and one of the greatest interest and importance 
to all students of foods and cookery. The reading and study 
of Buchanan's Household Bacteriology (which treats of the 
yeasts and molds as well as the bacteria of economic impor- 
tance) is especially recommended. 

EXPERIMENTS 

24. - - Collection of mold for study. 

a. Expose a piece of moist bread to the air of the room for 
about 10 minutes. Keep in a moist chamber and watch for the 
development of mold. A jelly glass inverted over the bread on a 
plate will do for the glass chamber. 

b. Expose a dish containing a freshly opened baked potato 
to the air of the room for about 10 minutes. Cover; keep in locker 
and watch for the development of mold. 

c. Bring into the laboratory anything that you can find on 
which mold is growing. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 27 

25. Description of mold. Describe briefly the general appearance 
of these various forms under a small magnifying glass (15 diam.) 
or under a dissecting microscope (15 diam.). 

Describe briefly the naked eye appearance of these various molds 
that appear in the laboratory. 

26. - - Mold on bread. Place several slices of bread under a bell 
glass or any dish that will protect it from evaporation. Battery 
jars, large beakers, or even common bowls will answer. Moisten the 
bread with water and put aside in a warm place (8o-9O F.). After 
two or three days the bread will usually show signs of white mold. 
Allow the mold to grow until some color appears and then determine, 
if possible, whether there are more than one species of mold on the 
bread. 

27. - - Molds on different foods. Under separate bell glasses place 
bits of cheese, some pieces of lemon, and a bit of banana. Each of 
these should be moist. Cover and put aside dish as in the last experi- 
ment. Molds will grow in a few 7 days, but probably different spe- 
cies will grow upon the different materials. Compare the molds and 
determine how many kinds can be seen. 

28. - - Experiment to show the mycelium. Place a little fruit juice, 
such as may be obtained from canned fruit, in two tubes or in 
homoeopathic vials and drop a few mold spores from the last experi- 
ment, or a little dust from the floor upon the surface of the liquid. 
Set aside to grow and notice how the molds spread and send fine 
threads into the liquid. Later notice that colored masses of spores 
grow in the air upon the surface of the liquid but not in the liquid 
below. 

29. - - Spores. After the molds of the previous experiments have 
begun to produce spores, as shown by the appearance of some color, 
remove a little spore material from the surface with a knife blade or 
a platinum wire and examine under a microscope. For this purpose 
a compound microscope is necessary, since the spores are very small. 

30. - - Growth of mold from spores. Moisten a bit of bread and 
transfer with a platinum wire a little bit of the spore mass from a 
vigorously growing mold to the surface of the bread. Cover with 



28 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

a bell glass and set aside for growth. Examine every day and note 
that molds start from the points where the bread was inoculated with 
the mold spores. 

31. - - Mold spores in dust. Melt gelatin l in 7 prepared test tubes, 
and pour it from each into sterilized petri dishes. Replace the cover 
upon the dish and allow the gelatin to harden. Label the petri 
dishes A, B, C, D, E, F, and G. Proceed as follows: 

A. Sweep a little dust from the floor and scatter over the 
prepared gelatin in A. Replace the cover and allow the dish to re- 
main in a cupboard until molds begin to grow. Note the number of 
hours or days until a growth appears. Obtain dust from the follow- 
ing sources and proceed as in A. 

B. Dust from a crack in the flour. 

C. Shake a dry duster over the gelatin. 

D. Shake a damp duster over the gelatin. 

E. Shake the hem of a skirt over the gelatin. 

F. Expose a plate of gelatin to the air of the room while 
sweeping. 

G. Expose a plate of gelatin to the air of the room 2 hours 
after sweeping and dusting thoroughly. 

NOTE : The above experiments may be performed using moist bread instead 
of petri dishes of gelatin, but the results are not as impressive. 
Bread can be used, however, if gelatin is not at hand. 

32. - - The effect of drying. Place under separate bell glass two 
slices of bread, one of which is damp, either naturally or slightly 

^Preparation of gelatin culture media: To 100 grams of gelatin add goo cc. of 
water and about 5 grams of Liebig's Extract of Beef and cook in double boiler for 
5 minutes. While still hot filter the material through absorbent cotton. In using 
absorbent cotton for this purpose, a large funnel should be used and the absorbent 
cotton wet with hot water, placed in it. The liquid is poured into the cotton and it 
will run through readily, coming out as a tolerably clear solution. Some of the fil- 
tered jelly is to be placed in sterilized flasks and some in test tubes, about 10 cc. in 
each. Plug the flasks and test tubes with cotton and steam the jelly in a common 
steamer for 30 minutes. At the end of 24 hours it should again be placed in the 
steamer and steamed for half an hour. Once more set it aside for 24 hours and upon 
the third day steam it again for half an hour and cool. Material thus prepared 
should give a clear, slightly brownish jelly, which, if properly sterilized, will keep 
indefinitely. It should be acid to litmus paper. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 29 

moistened with water, and the other dried. Leave for two or three 
days and notice the effect of drying in preventing the growth of 
molds. If one slice remains dry, no molds will grow upon it though 
the other soon becomes covered. 

33. - - The effect of boiling temperature. In each of two test tubes 
of gelatin place a small quantity of mold spores. Melt the gelatin 
in the tubes at as low a heat as will melt it. Pour the contents of 
one tube into a petri dish and cover at once. Place the other tube in 
a beaker of boiling water and allow the water to boil briskly for half 
an hour, after which the gelatin is to be poured into a petri dish and 
treated like that in the first tube. Set both dishes aside for mold 
growth and examine at intervals for several days, noticing whether 
molds develop in both dishes or only in the first. If they grow in 
both, note the relative abundance in the two dishes. 

34. - - Effect of low temperature. Prepare two plates of hardened 
gelatin and sow mold spores upon the surface of each. Leave one 
in the ordinary room temperature and place the other in an ice chest 
or some other place where the temperature is low. Compare day by 
day, and determine the effect of low temperature in checking or 
stopping mold growth. Do any molds grow upon the dish placed 
in the ice chest ? 

35. - - Effect of air currents. Moisten a slice of bread and sow 
mold spores upon it, or allow it to mold spontaneously under a bell 
glass. After it shows a luxuriant growth of mold, remove the bell 
glass and leave it exposed to brisk currents of the air. Notice how 
the growth of the mold ceases and the delicate mycelium flattens 
down close to the bread. 

36. - - Molds in cheese. Obtain a bit of Roquefort cheese. Cut 
it open and remove a bit of the green mass in the middle by means 
of a knife point or platinum wire. Sow this substance upon the 
surface of a dish of hardened gelatin and set aside for growth. 
After two or three days, the molds will begin to develop and may 
be studied with a microscope. When they begin to produce spores, 
they should, if possible, be studied sufficiently to determine the 
species. 



30 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

EXPERIMENTS ILLUSTRATING THE ACTION OF 

BACTERIA 

37. - - Putrefaction. 

Place in a series of test tubes a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h, with a little cold 
water, the following : 

a - - a small piece of chopped raw meat 

b - - a small amount of white of egg 

c - - \ tsp. bread flour 

d- -\ tsp. cornstarch 

e | tsp. cane sugar 

/ - - a small amount of ground dried peas 

g - - \ tsp. melted butter 

h - - \ tsp. olive oil. 

Cover each test tube with a piece of cheesecloth or stop with cotton. 

Place all the test tubes together in a warm place for three days and 
watch to determine which will putrefy and in what order. 

Putrefaction can be detected by the disagreeable odor and slimy 
condition of the water. 

38. - - Effect of moisture. Place a small amount of the following 
foods in dry test tubes a, b, c, d, e, f. 

In a duplicate series place the same foods, but moisten each with 
water. 

Allow all to remain in a warm place and compare at the end of 3 
days. 

Notice the effect of the water in evidently promoting putrefaction. 

Foods - - dry and wet. 

a - - dried crushed peas. 

b - - oatmeal 

c bread 

d - - entire wheat flour 

e - - bread flour 

/ - - graham cracker 

39. - - Effect of temperature. Place bits of meat with a little water 
in three test tubes. Put the first tube in an ice chest, the second in 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 31 

ordinary room temperature, and the third close to a stove or radiator 
where the temperature is high. Notice the rapidity of putrefaction 
in each case. 

40. - - Effect of boiling. Chop finely some raw beef and place it in 
water, warming slightly, but not heating it to more than 130 F. 
Divide into two parts, place each in a test tube, setting one aside 
without further treatment, but bringing the other to a brisk boil for 
a moment and then setting beside the first. At the end of twenty- 
four hours, examine to determine if putrefaction has occurred. 

Effect of freezing. A visit to a cold storage plant with subse- 
quent discussions will be more beneficial than an experiment to show 
the effect of freezing upon bacteria. 

EXPERIMENTS ILLUSTRATING YEASTS AS RELATED 

TO FRUITS AND SIRUPS 

41. - - Fermentation of cider. Grind up a few apples and strain 
the juice from the same by squeezing through cheesecloth. Collect 
the juice in test tubes and allow it to stand for a few days. A fer- 
mentation soon appears and the juice turns to cider. Examine the 
sediment with a microscope and detect the presence of yeast. Close 
up the tube with a cotton plug and leave it for a number of weeks, 
determining whether it subsequently becomes acid by the develop- 
ment of acetic acid. 

42. Fermentation of grape juice. Proceed as above, using 
grapes instead of apples. The juice will become wine if fermenta- 
tion occurs properly. 

43. Effect of temperature. Prepare 3 tubes with molasses and 
water as above described and inoculate each with 3 drops of yeast 
in water. Place one tube in a refrigerator, a second in a moderately 
warm temperature, above 70 F., and a third in a warmer place, 
near a stove or radiator (temp, about 90 F.). Compare the three at 
the end of three, six, and twenty-four hours, and note the effect of 
temperature upon growth. 

44. - - Effect of light. Prepare two tubes in the same way and set 
one in a bright light and the other in a dark place. Keep both tubes 



32 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

at the same temperature and determine whether light has any effect 
upon the rapidity of growth. 

45. - - Make a small cavity in the surface of a glass of jelly. 
Place a drop of fermented grape juice in the cavity, replace the 

paraffin and tin covers, and allow the jelly to remain in a dark cup- 
board. 

Examine after three days and notice the changes which have 
occurred in : 

1 . taste 

2. odor 

3. consistency 

46. - - a. Allow jelly to remain uncovered for a few minutes after 
it has cooled. Place the tin cover on jelly glass and set aside in 
warm, dark place. 

b. Examine daily for growths which will soon appear. 

c. Try to determine what kinds of mold appear. 1 

d. What is the coral pink mass which will probably appear? 

e. Allow the action of microorganisms to continue until 
the jelly becomes semi-liquid. Place it in a bottle and cork tightly. 

/. Keep the bottle in a warm place and notice the changes 
taking place. 

g. What are the bubbles and froth which appear when the 
cork is removed ? 

h. What microorganisms other than molds have been at 
work? 

47. - - a. Partly fill a sterile jar a with hot peaches and sirup just 
ready for canning. Repeat in a second jar b. 

b. Adjust the rubber band and seal a to keep out the air. 
Omit the rubber band on &, but clamp down the cover. 

c. Place a and b together with a jar filled and sealed and 
containing no air bubbles in a warm, dark place. Compare daily for 
signs of the action of microorganisms. 

1 An idea of the probable kind may be obtained by noting color and general 
appearance and comparing with what has already been learned. For actual iden- 
tification the "key" at the back of Buchanan's Household Bacteriology will be found 
most useful. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 33 

d. Compare a and b. Why should a show molds when the 
outside air is excluded? 

e. Why does no change occur in the third jar? 

48. - - From these experiments what conclusions do you make as 

to: 

a. The covering of jelly or jams with hot paraffin or paper 

wet in alcohol. 

b. The exclusion of air or air bubbles from a canned mixture. 

c. The rate of action of microorganisms in a solution as jam 
or jelly compared with that in a sirup as canned peaches. 

d. In what way can sugar in large amounts act as a partial 
preservative of fruits ? 

Definitions 

As usage differs somewhat the following definitions are given to 
show the sense in which each of the terms is used in this book. 

Canned food - - food products preserved in air-tight containers with 
or without heat and addition of sugar or acid. 

Preserves - - whole fruit or large pieces of fruit in a heavy solution 
of sugar. 

Jams - - fruit which is finely divided or reduced to a pulp in a 
heavy solution of sugar. 

Marmalades - - fruit pulp in a finely divided condition, to which 
may be added various spices and fruit flavors, together with a smaller 
amount of sugar than we find in jams. 

Butters - -fruit pulp very finely mashed, spiced, and often flavored 
with lemon. 

" Honey ' - fruit sirup with dense solution of sugar but still 
liquid. 

Conserves - - mixtures of fruit more or less finely divided in a 
fairly heavy solution of sugar, semi-liquid. 

Juices -- fruit juices with or without sugar, lemon, or other flavoring. 

Utensils necessary in Preserving Fruits 
scales 

measuring cup, any material not tin 
saucepan, any material not tin 
D 



34 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

new rubbers to fit jars 

perfect covers for jars, - - tin, glass 

wooden spoon 

silver knife for removing skins. 

silver fork for removing bubbles from inside of jar 

jelly bag of heavy material or several thicknesses of cheesecloth 

containers for product 

glass jars stone crocks 

jelly glasses. porcelain jars 

glass bottles 

paraffin 

corks 

General Directions 

I. Canning without sugar. 

a. Wash the jars and place them together with their covers 
in cold or slightly warm water. Bring to the boiling point and allow 
them to boil for 20 minutes. Place a wooden rack in kettle before 
putting in jars. 

b. Wash and prepare the fruit or vegetable in the desired 
shape for canning. 

c. Place the prepared fruit in the sterile jars; do not wipe 
the jars on the inside. Arrange the cover but do not seal ; place the 
jars in warm water and boil or steam the proper length of time for 
the given fruit or vegetables (see recipe). 

II. Canning with sugar. 

a. Use one third as much sugar as fruit (by weight). 

b. Use 4 c. of water to each Ib. of sugar. 

c. Prepare a sirup of the sugar and water by dissolving the 
sugar in the water and boiling the solution one minute. 

d. Canning may be accomplished by the following : 

1 a. Place the prepared fruit in sterile jars, covering fruit 
with the sirup, adjust the cover and steam or boil the required 
length of time for each fruit. 

2 a. Allow the prepared fruit to boil in the sirup until 
pulp is soft. Place fruit in sterile jars as soon as cooked, cover with 
the sirup, remove the air bubbles, cover and seal air-tight. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 35 

III. Preserving. 

1 . Preserves 

a. Three fourths as much sugar by weight as fruit 
measured by weight. 

b. To each pound of sugar add i c. of water. 

c. Heat water and prepared fruit to the boiling point, 
allow them to boil one minute. 

d. Add the sugar and continue the boiling until the 
sirup is thick. 

2. Jams 

a. Three fourths by weight as much sugar as fruit 
measured by weight. 

b. 2 c. of water to each pound of sugar. 

c. Boil prepared fruit and water together for 5 min- 
utes. Add the sugar and continue cooking until the sirup jellies. 

NOTE : Fruits with large seeds should be put through the colander after 
boiling five minutes and before the sugar is added. Rub the 
pulp through carefully, but keep back the seeds. 

3. Marmalades (in general) 

a. One half by weight as much sugar as fruit measured 
by weight. 

b. Three c. of water to each pound of sugar. 

c. Boil fruit until soft enough to be put through a 
colander, reduce to a pulp, add the sugar, and cook until mixture is 
very thick. 

4. Butters 

Practically the same as marmalade. Do not allow the 
mixture to become as dense as marmalade. 

5. Honey 
special recipes 

6. Conserves 
special recipes 

7. Jellies - - 2 methods 

a. Wash and prepare the fruit for cooking, allow it to 
cook in its own juice until very soft. 



36 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

b. Strain the juice through a jelly bag (without 
squeezing) . 

c. Measure or weigh the juice and add an equal amount 
of sugar or 

a' Allow the fruit to cook in water sufficient to keep 
the pulp from sticking to bottom of saucepan or burning. 

b' Strain the pulp through jelly bag, measure the 
juice, and add sugar in the proportion of f as much sugar as juice. 
NOTE : The less juicy fruits need to have water added when first cooking. 

8. Fruit juices 

a. Proceed as for jelly until the fruit juice is extracted. 
Turn into sterile bottles, seal air-tight immediately. 
NOTE : Sugar may be added and sirup boiled 2 minutes before sealing. 

2 tbsp. sugar 
i qt. fruit sirup 

General Directions for Canning and Preserving 

Fruit should be fresh, firm, and not over-sized. 

Sterilize jars by washing thoroughly, then placing in a pan of cold 
water and heating gradually to the boiling point. Remove from 
water as needed and turn upside down to drain before filling with fruit. 

Do not dry inside of jars before filling. 

Sterilize rubbers by dipping in boiling water. New rubbers must 
be used each year. 

When cans are filled and sealed, turn upside down and let stand 
for a short time to be sure they are air-tight. If not, sirup will run out. 

If necessary to change fruit from one can to another, always re- 
heat mixture. 

When preparing jellies, jams, or marmalades, sterilize jars as in 
canning but let dry before filling. 

Always seal jellies, jams, and marmalades with paraffin when mix- 
ture is cold and cover paraffin with tin to protect from mice. 

When boiling any fruit or sirup, never allow it to boil vigorously. 
Always boil it gently that sirup may be clear. 

NOTE : Paraffin may be washed, dried, and used again after being removed 
from top of jar. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 37 

Canned Peaches I 

Ingredients : 

i c. sugar i qt. peaches 

i c. water 

Method : 

Prepare sirup by boiling sugar and water 5 minutes. Wipe peaches 
and put in boiling water long enough to easily loosen skins. Remove 
skins with silver knife. Cut in halves, if large, and remove stones ; 
if small, may be left whole. Pack carefully in sterilized jars, but do 
not crush. Fill can with sirup, adjust covers loosely, and put in a 
rack in a covered pan with water up to the neck of the jars. Steam 
20 minutes, or until soft. Remove jars, and fill to overflowing with 
sirup or boiling water and adjust rubbers and tops quickly. 

One or two stones may be left in each jar for flavor. 

Canned Peaches II 

Method : 

Weigh fruit after peeling. Allow ^ its weight in sugar and i\ or 
3 c. water to each pound of sugar. Make a sirup of sugar and water 
by boiling fifteen minutes and cook fruit in it - - a small quantity at a 
time. Fill jars with fruit and sirup, letting the sirup overflow. 
Put on sterilized rubbers, adjust covers, and seal. 

Canned Tomatoes 
Method I: 

Wipe tomatoes, cover with boiling water, and let stand until skins 
may be easily removed, but not long enough to allow the fruit to 
become soft. Remove skins, cut fruit in pieces, and cook without 
adding water until thoroughly scalded, skimming often during the 
cooking. Fill sterilized jars with tomatoes and liquid, adjust rubbers 
and covers, and seal at once. 

Method II: 

Sterilize jars. Wash tomatoes and plunge into boiling water to 
loosen skins. 

Place tomatoes in jars, adding i tsp. salt to i qt. of the fruit. Ad- 
just covers without rubbers, place on a rack with enough water to 



38 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

come to neck of jars. Bring to boiling point and boil for 20-30 
minutes. Remove jars, fill to overflowing with hot stewed tomatoes or 
boiling water. 1 adjust rubbers and covers, and seal. Be careful to 
have no seeds under the rubbers. 



Grape Juice I 

Ingredients : 

10 Ibs. grapes (Concord) 2 qts. water 

2 Ibs. sugar 
Method : 

Wash the grapes and cook them in water until the skins are soft. 
Strain the pulp and liquid through a wet jelly bag. Reheat the 
juice and add the sugar and allow sirup to boil two minutes. Turn 
into- 'hot sterile bottles, cork, and seal with paraffin or equal parts of 
shoemakers' wax and resin. 

Grape Juice II 

Ingredients : 

8 Ibs. grapes (Niagara) i qt. water 

| Ib. sugar 

Method : 

Wash the grapes and cook in one quart of water until the skins are 
soft. Strain the pulp and juice through a wet jelly bag. Add the 
sugar and boil the juice two minutes. Turn into hot sterile jars, 
cork, and seal. 

Raspberry Vinegar 

Ingredients : 

3 pts. raspberries i pt. cider vinegar 

i pt. juice to i Ib. sugar 

Method : 

Prepare the berries, cover with the vinegar, and allow them to stand 
overnight. Strain fruit and liquid through a wet jelly bag and boil 
the sirup fifteen minutes. Add the sugar and boil five minutes. 
Turn into hot sterile bottles, cork, and seal. 

1 Addition of water is permissible only when canning for home use. Under the 
regulations for the enforcement of the National Food and Drugs Act commercial 
canned tomatoes must not contain added water. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 39 

Jelly 

See general directions. 

Jams, Preserves, Marmalade 
See general directions. 

Grapefruit Marmalade 

Ingredients : 

2 oranges 2 lemons 

2 grapefruit sugar 

water 
Method : 

Scrub the fruit with a brush thoroughly. Remove the peel and 
cook the grapefruit rind in several waters until the inside white is 
soft. Remove this with a spoon. Slice the rinds of all three fruits 
in very fine shreds. Slice the fruit pulp in thin slices, removing all 
seeds, as these give a bitter taste to the marmalade. Weigh the pulp 
and sliced rinds. Calculate the sugar according to general directions. 
Cook the pulp in a large quantity of water until the rinds have be- 
come almost clear. This may be done by continuous boiling or by 
boiling on consecutive days, but will probably take three hours. 
Measure the liquid and add more water to bring it up to the amount 
required for the sugar to be used (see general directions). Add the 
sugar and allow sirup and pulp to boil gently until mixture will 
jelly slightly. Turn into sterile jars, cool, seal with hot paraffin, 
cover with tin covers. 

NOTE : The sugar must be added last as long boiling reduces the sweetness 
and changes the color to a caramel brown. Why ? 

Yellow Tomato Marmalade 

Ingredients : 

7 Ibs. ripe yellow tomatoes 5 Ibs. granulated sugar 

7 lemons 
Method : 

Weigh tomatoes after peeling. Slice yellow skins of lemon in 
thin pieces. Discard white skin and cut pulp in small pieces. Boil 
until the sirup is thick and jelly like. 



40 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Spiced Grapes 

Ingredients : 

6 Ibs. grapes i| c. vinegar 

cinnamon 

3 Ibs. sugar | c. mixed spice cloves 

allspice 
Method : 

Wash grapes and remove from stems. Put pulp into saucepan 
(save the skins). Cook pulp until seeds can be removed. Turn 
into colander and press pulp through, add skins and other ingredients 
and cook until skins are soft and mixture thick and jellylike. 



Gingered Pears I 

Ingredients : 

4 Ibs. pears cut in thin slices 3 Ibs. sugar 

2 lemons f Ib. green ginger root 

i qt. water 
Method : 

Cook pears, lemons cut in fine slices, and chopped ginger root until 
the fruit is almost transparent. Add the sugar and boil gently until 
the sirup jellies and fruit is clear and transparent. 



Gingered Pears II 

Ingredients : 

8 Ibs. pears (Seckel) \ Ib. crystallized ginger 

4 Ibs. sugar 3 lemons 

Method : 

Wash, core, and slice the pears in thick pieces. Add the sugar and 
crystallized ginger cut in small pieces. Allow the mixture to stand 
24 hours. Add lemon, sliced very thin, and cook mixture until sirup 
is thick and jellylike. Serve with ice cream. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 41 

Rhubarb Conserve I 

Ingredients : 

5 Ibs. rhubarb 4 Ibs. sugar 

4 oranges 3 qts. water 

Method : 

Wash and cut the rhubarb into one-half inch pbces. Scrub the 
oranges, slice through the rind into very thin sections, being careful 
to remove all seeds. Cook the rhubarb and sliced orange together 
for 15 minutes, adding a very little water if necessary to prevent the 
fruit from burning. 

Add the 3 qts. water and 4 Ibs. sugar and allow the mixture to 
boil gently until sirup is thick and jellylike. 



Rhubarb Conserve II 

Ingredients : 

4 Ibs. rhubarb i lemon 

i Ib. raisins 2 oranges 

4 Ibs. sugar 
Method : 

Wash and cut rhubarb into one-half inch pieces. Boil rhubarb, 
raisins, and sugar gently 20 minutes, add juice of oranges and lemon 
and the rind of the orange. Boil until sirup is thick and jellylike. 



Apricot Conserve 

Ingredients : 

i Ib. dried apricots 3 pineapples 

i| qts. water i c. Sultana raisins 

sugar i c. water 

Method : 

Wash the apricots and soak them in cold water overnight. Using 
this same water, cook them until soft. Press pulp through a colander. 
Shred the pineapple and cook in a small quantity of water until 
soft. Combine the cooked fruits and raisins. Weigh and add half 
as much sugar. Add i c. water and cook until sirup is thick and 
jellylike. 



42 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Pineapple and Cherry Preserves 

Ingredients : 

i Ib. pineapple ii lb. sugar 

5 lb. white cherries i c. water 

Method : 

Cut the pineapple in thin slices. Wash and stone the cherries and 
add the pineapple. Add the sugar and cook until mixture is thick 
and sirup is jellylike. 

Grape Conserve 

Ingredients : 

9 Ibs. grapes | lb. walnuts 

i lb. raisins 4 Ibs. sugar 

Method : 

Boil skins until tender. Heat pulp until seeds can be easily re- 
moved. Add raisins to skins and pulp and boil until consistency of 
marmalade. Add nuts five minutes before removing from fire. 

Plum Conserve 

Ingredients : 

3 Ibs. pitted plums i lb. walnuts 

1 lb. raisins 3 oranges 

3 Ibs. sugar 
Method : 

Wash and cut plums in pieces. Add chopped raisins, and oranges, 
and boil until the consistency of marmalade. Add nuts five minutes 
before removing from fire. 

Cherry Conserve 

Ingredients : 

2 qts. currants i qt. sour cherries 
2 qts. red raspberries \ lb. walnut meats 

2 qts. sugar 
Method : 

Stem the currants, pit cherries, and boil all ingredients except nuts 
until consistency of marmalade. Add nuts five minutes before re- 
moving from fire. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 43 

Mustard Pickle 

Ingredients : 

i qt. cucumbers sliced | c. salt 

i qt. small cucumbers 2 qts. vinegar 

1 qt. small onions 3 c. brown sugar 

2 heads cauliflower i c. flour 

i green pepper 2 tbsp. mustard 

2 tbsp. turmeric 
Method : 

Cover the vegetables with salted water and let stand overnight. 
In the morning, cook in the same water until tender, then drain. 
Make a paste by cooking together the other ingredients, then 
add the drained vegetables. When sufficiently thick, put in wide- 
mouthed sterilized jars or bottles. 



Chili Sauce 

Ingredients : 

12 ripe tomatoes 2 c. vinegar 

i pepper, finely chopped 3 tbsp. sugar 

i onion i tbsp. salt 

2 tsp. each, cloves, cinnamon, allspice. 
Method : 

Cook f hour or until mixture is reduced J. 



Sweet Pickle 

Ingredients : 

7 Ibs. fruit i qt. vinegar 

3! Ibs. sugar 2 oz. cloves 

2 oz. cinnamon 

Method : 

Make a sirup and cook fruit in it until soft. Remove the fruit 
with a perforated spoon. Boil down the sirup and pour over the 
fruit in stone or glass jars. 

NOTE : Crabapples, peaches, pears, or Seckel pears may be used. 



44 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Pickled Tomatoes 

Ingredients : 

i pk. green tomatoes 2\ qts. vinegar 

1 c. salt 2 Ibs. brown sugar 

2 qts. vinegar \ Ib. white mustard seed 

1 qt. water 

2 tbsp. each of cloves, cinnamon, ginger, black pepper. 

Method : 

Cut the tomatoes in one-fourth inch slices, and let stand over- 
night with one cup of salt. In the morning, drain and add two 
quarts of vinegar and one quart of water. Boil fifteen minutes, then 
drain. 

Take two and one half quarts of vinegar, brown sugar, mustard 
seed, and spices. Boil tomatoes in this fifteen minutes. Then turn 
all into a stone jar. 

Cucumber Pickle 

Ingredients : 

100 medium cucumbers \ c. black mustard seed 

i qt. onions \ c. white mustard seed 

i c. olive oil 

Method : 

Wash, peel, and slice the vegetables. Cover with brine (i c. salt 
and 4 qts. boiling water), let stand 2 hours and drain. 

Mix oil and mustard seed and cover with hot vinegar. Add to 
the vegetables. Seal in sterilized cans. 

Red Pepper Pickle 

Ingredients : 

| pk. red peppers i qt. vinegar 

boiling water 2 c. sugar 

Method : 

Wash peppers, remove seeds, and shred. Cover with boiling 
water for 5 minutes. Drain, pack in sterilized jars, and cover with a 
sirup made of the vinegar and sugar. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 45 

SCORE CARD 

Canned Fruits 
General appearance 15 

Container (5) 
Color (10) 

Fruit 50 

Whole (5) 

Cooked (20) 
Flavor (25) 

Sirup 35 

Clearness (10) 
Flavor (15) 

Density (10) 

100 

Preserves 
General appearance 30 

Container (10) 
Color (20) 

Mixture 70 

Consistency (15) 
Flavor (40) 

Density (15) 

100 

REFERENCES 

Canning and Preserving 

ADAMS and SANDSTER. Practical Directions for Preserving Native 

Fruits and Vegetables. University of Wisconsin, Agricultural 

Experiment Station, Bulletin No. 136 (1906). 
BITTING. The Canning of Foods. United States Department of 

Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin No. 151 (1912). 
BREAZEALE. Canning of Vegetables in the Home. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, 359 (1910). 
BUCHANAN. Household Bacteriology. 



46 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

CORBETT. Canned Foods, Fruits, and Vegetables. Teachers Col- 
lege Bulletin, Fourth Series No. 12, February 15, 1913. 

GOLDTHWAITE. Principles of Jelly Making. University of Illi- 
nois, Bulletin No. 34 (1912). 

GOLDTHWAITE. Chemistry and Physics of Jelly-making. Journal 
of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, vol. i, pages 333- 
340; vol. 2, pages 457-462 (1909-1910). 

GOULD and RETCHER. Canning Peaches on the Farm. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, No. 426 
(1910). 

HATTON and HOLT. Canning of Fruits and Vegetables. Georgia 
State College of Agriculture, Bulletin No. n. 

HAUSMANN. Home Manufacture and Use of Unfermented Grape 
Juice. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' 
Bulletin, No. 175 (1903). 

KINNE and COOLEY. Foods and Household Management. 

LEACH. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

NYE and AUSTIN. A Canning Business for the Farm Home. Cor- 
nell University Bulletin, vol. 2, No. 47. 

PARLOA. Canned Fruit, Preserves, and Jellies. United States 
Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, 203 (1905). 

ROSE. The Preservation of Food in the Home. Cornell University 
Bulletin, vol. i, No. 17. 

SHERMAN. Food Products. 

WILEY. Foods and their Adulteration. 



CHAPTER IV 
CEREALS 

CEREALS and the various products made from grains form 
one of the most important foods for man. For the majority 
of people they furnish more nutriment than does any other 
class of food materials. Cereals have been defined as grasses, 1 
the grains of which are used for food. There are on the market 
many cereal preparations, cooked or uncooked, but these are 
made from a limited number of cereal grains and the properties 
of each preparation are dependent upon those of the cereal from 
which it is derived. 

A cereal grain is a kernel 2 containing a relatively small germ 
rich in protein and fat, and a relatively large endosperm con- 
taining much starch, little fat, and a moderate amount of pro- 
tein, the whole inclosed in a fibrous covering called the bran. 
The bran consists of several layers, the outermost being of little 
food value, while the " aleurone layer " (which lies between the 
fibrous covering and the starchy interior but is apt to be re- 
jected with the bran in ordinary milling processes) is rich in 
protein and in phosphorus, calcium, and iron compounds of 
much value in nutrition. A " whole grain ' product is there- 
fore a more complete food than the " finer ' product made 
from the endosperm only, but the latter (largely because it is 
poor in protein, fat, and ash constituents) is apt to keep longer 
than the former. 

1 Since a few of the edible grains, such as buckwheat, are seeds of plants not be- 
longing to the grass family, the term "grains" is somewhat broader than "cereals." 

2 See Sherman's Food Products, pages 270-272, for description and illustra- 
tions of the structure of the wheat kernel. 

47 



48 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

The percentage composition of the different grains and of the 
various products manufactured from them may be found in 
Bulletin 28, Office of Experiment Stations, U. S. Department of 
Agriculture, or in Sherman ? s Food Products, Chapter VIII. 

How to purchase cereals : Cereals do not keep well after being 
opened, as parasites are apt to appear. Therefore, purchase a small 
stock at a time. Cereals in bulk are cheaper, but not always as clean 
as those sold in packages. Grocers should be encouraged to keep 
bulk cereals in bins or other containers which are dust-proof and 
insect-proof. 

Reasons for cooking cereals : 

1. Softens the cellulose. 

2. Bursts the starch grains. 

3. Increases the palat ability. 

Methods of cooking : 

Boiling in water or milk ; example, rice. 
Steaming in water or milk ; example, corn meal. 
Heat in the oven; example, corn flakes. 
Toast; example, shredded wheat. 

Methods of serving: 
Hot. Cold. 

Puddings. Thickening for croquettes. 
Fritters. Browned Slices. 

Variations in serving : 

Cream and sugar. Cream. 
Butter and sugar. Butter. 
Prune sauce. Apple sauce or sirup. 
Maple sugar. Corn sirup. 
Fresh fruit. Dried fruit. 
Creamed beef. Pudding sauce. 

Differences in consistency : 
Breakfast cereal. Mush. 
Porridge. Gruel. 
Cereal water. 



CEREALS 49 

i 

EXPERIMENTS 

49. Make the following tests with iodine. See page 13. 

| tsp. dry cornstarch 
^ tsp. moist cornstarch 
\ tsp. cooked cornstarch 
Observe change in color of iodine. 

50. - - Make the same test with iodine, using the following cereals, 
cooked, moist, raw : 

rice cream of wheat 

corn meal wheat flour 

shredded wheat force 

51. - - Wash a little rice and test the water with iodine. See page 
13. Result? Why do you observe a change? 

52. - - Collect a little saliva in test tubes. Add to this small 
amounts of the cooked and uncooked cereal, let stand in warm water 
ten minutes. Test part with iodine and part with Fehling-Benedict 
solution (page 13). Conclusion? 

53. - We have shown that starch is present in large quantities ; 
we will now compare the thickening qualities of the following cereals : 

corn meal rolled oats 

cream of wheat rice 

Use c. each of the above cereals. Mix each in saucepans 
of uniform size and shape with : 

a. i c. cold water. Bring to boiling point and boil 1 5 minutes. 

b. i c. boiling water. Boil 15 minutes. 

. c. In each case how much water must be added to prevent 
burning and to reduce to the consistency of breakfast cereal? 

d. What individual variations in the thoroughness of cook- 
ing appear at the end of the 15 minutes? 

e. Is it best to start cereals cooking in boiling or cold water? 
/. Make a table of the amount of water required with each 

of the cereals used. Reduce it in each case by \ and again cook | c. 
of the cereals, this time using a double boiler. 








50 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

g. Why was the amount of water reduced? 

h. Compare the products when saucepan and double boiler 
are used. 

i. What advantages has the double boiler? 

54. When should salt be added to the cereal? 

a. Measure two portions of rice, A and B, | c. in each 
portion. 

b. Steam A in double boiler, adding salt to the rice as 
usual. 

c. Steam B in double boiler, salting rice as in A, but also 
adding rock salt to the water in lower part, in the proportion of 2 
tbsp. to i c. water. Note the temperature of the water in lower 
part of double boiler in each case. 

d. Compare the length of time required for the cooking of 
the rice in each case. How do you explain the difference? 

55. - - a. Steam the following cereals, using milk as compared with 
water for the liquid : 

milk water 

cream of wheat cream of wheat 

oatmeal oatmeal 

corn meal corn meal 

rice rice 

b. Compare as to taste, color. What possible objection could 
be raised to the long cooking of milk when used as a liquid with 
cereals? Is it a vital objection? 

56. - - a. Use \ c. rolled oats plus the requisite amount of water for 
breakfast cereal as decided upon in Expt. 53 /. 

Cook \ the amount of oatmeal and water in the nreless 
cooker. 

Cook the other half in the pressure cooker. 

b. Note the length of time required in each case to cook 
the cereal. 

Explain the differences in length of time. 

c. What is the consistency of the cereal? Why? 



CEREALS 



57. - - Reduce the amount of water by \ and cook the cereal in both 
pressure and fireless cooker. Note the consistency of this mixture. 

58. - - Repeat until the proper amount of water per unit of cereal 
is determined for each cooker. 

59. Determine the proper amount of water to be used per unit of : 

corn meal rice 

cream of wheat malt 

60. - - Compute the economy in time, fuel, and labor when the pres- 
sure and fireless cookers are used. 

61. - - Compute the length of time in which each cooker would pay 
for itself in the cost of fuel sa.ved. 

Compare the results obtained in the above experiments with the 
corresponding data in the following tabular summary and discuss any 
points which may not seem to agree. 

THE COOKING OF CEREALS (TABULAR SUMMARY) 



f 

CEREAL 


AMOUNT 

OF 

WATER 


SALT 


TIME 


i c rolled oats . . . ... 


3 C. 


i tsp. 


30-60 minutes 




o 






i c. coarse oatmeal 


4 C. 


i tsp. 


3 hours or more 


i c. granular cereals (except corn meal) 


4-6 c. 


i tsp. 


30-60 minutes 


i c. corn meal 


6c. 


i tsp. 


60 minutes 


i c. rice boiled 


8 c. 


i tsp. 


2030 minutes 


i c. rice steamed 


2 C. 


i tsp. 


i hour or more 






r' 





General rules. Remove any foreign substances from cereal. A 
fireless cooker is efficient, but a double boiler is the best utensil for 
cooking cereals. Fill lower part ^ full of boiling water. It must be 
kept rapidly boiling while cereal is cooking. If more water is needed 
before the cooking is completed, boiling water should be used. 

Add cereal slowly to rapidly boiling salted water in upper part of 
double boiler and stir constantly until it thickens, cooking directly 
over the fire. Place over boiling water to finish cooking. Rice 
should be washed before cooking. 



52 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

COMBINATIONS OF CEREALS AND FRUITS 

Apples in Sirup with Rice I 

Ingredients : 

i c. boiling water stick cinnamon 

i c. sugar apples 

Method : 

Boil sugar, cinnamon, and water together three minutes. 

Wash apples, core, pare, and quarter and boil in the sirup until 
tender. Remove apples from sirup as soon as transparent and con- 
tinue boiling until a medium-thick sirup is formed. Arrange apples 
attractively around a mound or mold of cereal and pour sirup over 
aU. 

Apples in Sirup with Rice II 

Method : 

Steam rice in individual molds. Turn out and surround with 
stewed apples cut in eighths. Uncooked fruits, as oranges, bananas, 
or strawberries, may be used. 



Apples in Sirup with Oatmeal 

Method : 

Stew pared, cored apples and fill cavities with cooked oatmeal 
mixed with chopped dates. Pour sirup over apples and serve with 
whipped cream. This may be served for breakfast or as a simple 
dessert for luncheon. 



Oatmeal with Dates 

Ingredients : 

% c. oatmeal \ Ib. dates 

\ tsp. salt i| c. water 

Method I: 

Prepare oatmeal as usual. When half cooked, add dates, washed, 
stoned, and cut in halves ; or when oatmeal is cooked, add dates finely 
chopped. 



CEREALS 53 

Method II: 

Wash, stone, and cut dates in quarters lengthwise. Using a custard 
cup prepare a mold by first dipping in cold water. Press pieces of 
dates against sides of cup, radiating from center like petals. Care- 
fully turn in cereal and cool. Serve with cream. 

NOTE : Cream of wheat, wheatena, and farina may be used with dates. 
Raisins, figs, or prunes may be substituted for dates. 



FARINACEOUS DESSERTS 

Apple Tapioca 

Ingredients : 

f c. pearl or minute tapioca 

P resh or canned 
cold water 

, .,. peaches or 

3^ c. boiling water 7 sour apples < . , . 

other fruits 

A tsp. salt , 

may be used. 

^ c. sugar 

Method : 

Soak tapioca one hour in cold water to cover, drain, add boiling 
water and salt ; cook in double boiler until transparent. Core and 
pare apples, arrange in buttered pudding dish, fill cavities with sugar, 
pour over tapioca and bake in moderate oven until apples are soft. 
Serve with sugar and cream. Do not soak minute tapioca. 



Cornstarch Pudding 

Ingredients : 

i pt. milk scalded J tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. cornstarch \ c. cold milk 

4 tbsp. sugar | tsp. vanilla 

Method : 
Plain 

Make paste of cornstarch, salt, sugar, and cold milk. Add to 
scalded milk slowly, stirring constantly. Stir until smooth, then 
cover and cook 45 minutes in double boiler. Add vanilla and pour 



54 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

into molds previously wet with cold water. Serve cold with cream 
and sugar. 

Chocolate 

Melt chocolate. Add scalded milk gradually. Finish as in plain 
pudding. If eggs are used, beat and add the cornstarch mixture 
slowly to them. Return to double boiler and cook 3 minutes, stirring 
constantly. 

Additions 

whites 2 eggs, or yolks 2 eggs, or 

2 squares chocolate 

Use i tbsp. cornstarch to i c. milk for soft pudding. 
Use 2 tbsp. cornstarch to i c. milk to mold. 



Baked Indian Pudding 

Ingredients : 

i qt. milk f c. corn meal 

\ tbsp. ginger \ c. molasses 

i egg i tbsp. butter 

\ tsp. salt 
Method : 

Scald the milk and add the molasses and butter. Mix the corn 
meal, ginger, and salt and pour the liquid over dry ingredients. Beat 
in the egg and pour the mixture into a buttered baking dish. Bake 
two hours in a moderate oven. 



Coffee Sago Pudding 

Ingredients : 

2 c. boiled coffee j c. sugar 

| c. sago | tsp. salt 

Method : 

Wash sago in cold water ; add coffee and cook in double boiler 
until sago is transparent. Add sugar and salt. Serve with cream 
and sugar or soft custard. Coffee Sago may be served hot or 
cold. 



CEREALS 55 

Orange Pudding 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. cornstarch 2 c. boiling water 

i c. sugar i tbsp. butter 

| tsp. salt juice of i lemon 

3 oranges 

Method : 

Prepare cornstarch pudding and pour over sliced oranges. 



Rice Pudding 

Ingredients : 



i qt. milk \ tsp. salt 

\ c. rice \ c. sugar 

i tsp. vanilla \ c. raisins 



Method : 



Wash rice, place in a buttered pan, add other ingredients except 
raisins. Bake slowly several hours, stirring occasionally. Add 
raisins when done. 



Shredded Wheat Pudding 

Ingredients : 

2 c. hot milk \ c. molasses 

i shredded wheat biscuit \ tsp. salt 

i egg \ tsp. cinnamon 

Method : 

Combine ingredients and bake in a moderate oven until firm. 
Serve with cream. 

GRUELS 

Gruels are liquid preparations of finely ground grain products. 
Long cooking in a double boiler is necessary to make the starch 
soluble or to partly dextrinize it. 



56 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Arrowroot Gruel 



Ingredients : 

2 tsp. arrowroot 
2 tbsp. cold water 

Method: (for all, same as given for cereals on page 51). 



i c. boiling water or milk 
salt 



Ingredients : 

1 tbsp. barley flour 

2 tbsp. cold water 



Barley Gruel 

i c. scalded milk 
salt 



Ingredients: 

1 tbsp. corn meal 

2 tbsp. cold water 



Corn Meal Gruel 

i| c. boiling water 
salt 



Oatmeal Gruel 
Ingredients: 

\ c. coarse oatmeal i^ c. boiling water 

| tsp. salt milk to thin it to right consistency 

REFERENCES 

Grain Products 

BIRDSEYE. Rice and Rice Cookery. Cornell University Bulletin, 

vol. 3, January i, 1914. 
Cereal Foods. Maine Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 

118 (1905). 
Cereals and How to Cook Them. The University of Nebraska, 

Home Studies Series No. 2. 
Cereals and Other Starchy Foods, Demonstration. Iowa State 

College of Agriculture. Extension department, Short course 

class notes no. 5. 
DAY, EDNA. Digestibility of Starch of Different Sorts as Affected 

by Cooking. United States Department of Agriculture, Farm- 
ers' Bulletin, 202 (1908). 



CEREALS 57 

FOULK, ELMA. Ohio State University. The Agricultural College, 

Home Makers Reading Course No. 2. 
HUNT. The Cereals in America. 
LANGWORTHY and HUNT. Corn Meal as a Food and Ways of Using 

it. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, 

565 (iQH)- 
LANGWORTHY and HUNT. Use of Corn, Kafir and Cow Peas in the 

Home. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' 

Bulletin, 559 (1913). 
LEACH. Food Inspection and Analysis. 
MERRILL. Indian Corn as Food for Man. Maine Agricultural 

Experiment Station, Bulletin 131 (1906). 

PATTEE. Practical Dietetics with Reference to Diet in Disease. 
SHERMAN. Food Products. 
WILEY. Cereals and Cereal Products. Part 9 of Bulletin 13 of 

the Bureau of Chemistry, United States Department of Agri- 
culture. 
WOODS and SNYDER. Cereal Breakfast Foods. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, 249 (1911). 
WOODS. Food Value of Corn arid Corn Products. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin, 298 (1907). 



CHAPTER V 
VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 

VEGETABLES cover a class of foods some of which are fruits, 
some roots, leaves, stalks, seeds, bulbs, and tubers. A classi- 
fication of vegetables is given below. Like the fruits, the vege- 
tables vary greatly in their general composition. Some, like 
the legumes, are characterized by high protein content ; others, 
including the roots and tubers, by high carbohydrate content; 
still others, including most of the leaves, stalks, and bulbs, by 
high cellulose and water content. All vegetables, however, are 
rich in one or more of the ash constituents such as iron, calcium, 
and phosphorus, which are now known to play an important 
part in nutrition. (See Sherman's Food Products, pages 324- 
329, for percentage composition, and pages 347-349 for 
percentage of ash in the edible portion.) 

Classification : 

a. According to the part of the plant used for food. 

b. Character of juice - - sweet, strong. 

c. Character of plant - - starchy, watery. 

d. Fresh, dried, canned. 

a. Part of the plant : 

Leaves - - lettuce, water cress, spinach, cabbage, dandelion, kale, 
Swiss chard, beet tops, turnip tops. 

Stalks - - asparagus, celery, rhubarb. 

Bulbs -- onion, -- Bermuda, Spanish, Egyptian; garlic, leek, 
shallot, chives. 

Seaweeds Irish moss, agar or Ceylon moss. 

58 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 59 

Tubers potatoes, Jerusalem artichokes, dasheen corms. 

Tuberous roots sweet potatoes, yams, cassava, arrowroot. 

Succulent roots turnips, beets, kohl-rabi, radishes, carrots, 
parsnips, oyster plant. 

Flowers cauliflower, French artichoke. 

Fruits tomatoes, cucumber, squash, pumpkins, okra, corn, 
peppers, eggplant. 

Seeds peas, beans, lentils. 

b. Character of juice : 

sweet strong 

celery onions 

carrots cabbage 

beets turnips 

c. Character of plant : 

starchy watery 

potatoes cabbage 

parsnips tomatoes 

cucumbers 

Points to emphasize. Select medium-sized vegetables and wash 
carefully. Soak cauliflower in salt water before cooking. Soak 
wilted vegetables in cold water. Cook summer vegetables as soon 
after gathering as possible. If necessary to keep, place in refrigera- 
tor or in a cool cellar. Keep winter vegetables in barrels or bins in 
a dry, cold place. Empty canned vegetables as soon as opened, and 
let stand exposed to the air a few minutes to become aerated. Vege- 
tables lack fat in any quantity, therefore it is well to combine them 
with butter, oil, or cream. It saves time to cook a double portion 
of a vegetable and reheat the next day in another form. 

Reasons for cooking vegetables : 

To sterilize any from doubtful sources. 

To soften cellulose. 

To make starch more easily digestible. 

To develop or modify flavors. 

To give a variety of attractive ways of serving. 



60 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Ways of serving vegetables : 

Boiled with butter Mashed 

Creamed Puddings (Irish moss) 

Croquettes Salads 

Scalloped with cheese Souffles 

Fritters Soups 

General rules for cooking. Wash thoroughly, pare or scrape if 
skins must be removed. Let stand in cold water until cooked to 
keep crisp and prevent discoloration. Pare onions under cold water 
to absorb the odor. Cut tops of beets i inch from beet. Use one 
tsp. salt to i qt. boiling water. Add salt when vegetables are half 
cooked. The water in which vegetables are cooked is called vege- 
table stock and may be used with milk in the preparation of white 
sauce for vegetables with sweet juice. Cook strong-juiced vegetables 
uncovered in a large amount of water, sweet-juiced covered in a 
small amount of water. The color may be kept in green vegetables 
by pouring cold water through them after draining. Drain vege- 
tables as soon as 'tender. Cold vegetables may be used in salads, 
combined with white sauce as " creamed vegetables," or white sauce 
and buttered crumbs as " scalloped vegetables." 

EXPERIMENTS 
Potato 

* 

62. - - Prepare two very thin slices of white potato, one lengthwise 
and one across. 

Hold against a strong light. 

Observe markings and lines. What are they? 

Make a drawing. 

See Sherman's Food Products, pages 320-321, 322. 

63. - - Do the same with carrot, turnip, and onion. 
Compare and state conclusions. 

64. - - Wash, pare, and grate into a bowl a good-sized white potato. 
Make a microscopic examination of a particle of the pulp in a drop 

of water, before and after treatment with a drop of dilute iodine 
solution. See page 13. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 6 I 

65. - - Pour pulp and fluid from Expt. 64 into a wet cheesecloth 
over a bowl of cold water. 

Draw the cloth together and knead the mass in the water. 

To what is the milky color of the water due? 

Test a little of the water with iodine. 

Boil a little. 

What changes do you observe? Explain. 

66. - - Change the water and continue washing the pulp from Expts. 
64 and 65 until the water is only slightly milky or clear. Save each 
water. 

Open cheesecloth and examine content. 
What does this explain as to the structure of the potato? 
What does this explain as to the cooking of potato and other starchy 
vegetables ? 

67. - - Observe the water and starch which has been standing. 
Decant off the water and turn sediment on to a filter paper to dry. 
Note the clear white color of the sediment. Note the brown color 

of liquid. To what is this due? (See experiments with Apple.) 

68. - - Add fresh cold water to a portion of the sediment obtained in 
Expt. 67; stir until particles are all suspended. Dip in a piece of 
white muslin and iron while still wet. When have you observed this 
same result? 

69. - - Add freshly boiling water to the sediment in one bowl. Stir 
the mixture constantly. 

How does this compare with Expt. 68? 

Dip a piece of muslin in, allow it to dry, sprinkle, and iron. 

70. - - Repeat Expts. 68 and 69, using carrot and turnip. 
Compare and state conclusions. 

Dextrinized Starch 

71. - - a. Dextrinize one tbsp. flour by heating the flour in a dry 
utensil. 

b. Test with iodine. (See page 13.) 

c. Add water to make a solution. 

d. Does the color turn? 



62 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

e. Why not ? 

/. Does the dextrin appear to be more or less soluble than 
flour or starch in cold water ? 

g. Explain your answer. 

72. a. Thicken \ c. cold water with i tbsp. flour. 

b. Thicken \ c. cold \vater with i tbsp. dextrinized flour 
(boil each). 

c. Which mixture is thickest ? Why ? 

Starchy Vegetables 

Vegetables may be prepared for cooking processes by peeling or 
scraping. Peeling is more often done carelessly than carefully. 
Have ready the following vegetables : 

white potato sweet potato 

carrot turnip 

parsnip 

73. - -Wash, scrub with a brush, and weigh each vegetable. 
Estimate the waste in the preparation of each vegetable by the 

following methods : 

a. scraping 

b. peeling carefully 

c. peeling in the usual manner 
Which method is the more economical? 

Cooking of Vegetables 

74. Have washed and scrubbed the following vegetables : 

a. white potato 

b. sweet potato 

c. carrot 

Prepare each by: 

a. peeling 

b. scraping 

c. scrubbing, but not removing skin 

a. Boil each vegetable, prepared in the three ways. 

b. Note the length of time of cooking. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 63 

c. Compare as to color, texture, and flavor. 

d. Note the length of time and ease in removing the skin of the 
cooked vegetable as compared with peeling an uncooked vegetable. 

e. Test the water in each case for starch, protein, sugar, and 
mineral matter. By which method of preparation is most food value 
lost? Why? What are your conclusions? 

75. Use the same kinds of vegetables prepared for cooking by 
peeling, scraping, and scrubbing. 

Bake in a hot oven. Note the time of baking, appearance, texture, 
color, taste in each case. 

Which method of preparation for baking vegetables is best ? Why ? 

Green Vegetables 

Green vegetables are prepared for cooking or fresh for the table 
by washing in several waters to remove sand, parasites, etc. 

76. - - Wash the following vegetables : 

lettuce celery spinach 

green peas string beans onions 

cauliflower 

Arrange samples of each green vegetable as follows : 

a. Soak in cold water i hour in room. 

b. Soak in ice water i hour in refrigerator. 

c. Soak in salted cold water (2 tsp. salt to i pt. water) i hour 
in room. 

d. Soak in salted ice water (2 tsp. salt to i pt. ice water) 

i hour in refrigerator. 

. , /i tsp. lemon juice 1 t 

e. Soak in acid water < . > to i pt. ice water 

1 1 tsp. vinegar J 

in refrigerator i hour. 

Note the crispness in each case. 

Is there any change in color or flavor? 

77. Boil samples of each vegetable in the following manner : 

a. Large quantity of water. No cover. 

b. Small amount of water. Cover tightly. 

c. Small amount of water. No cover. 



64 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Compare the length of time of cooking in each case. 
Contrast color, flavor, attractiveness. 
Which method is best for each vegetable ? 
Why? 

78. - - Prepare spinach by cooking in double boiler, using no water 
in upper part. Enough moisture will be furnished by the water 
which clings to the spinach in washing and also the water in the plant. 

Compare with that boiled in water. 

79. - - What nutrients are lost by cooking green vegetables in 
water? 

Prove this by testing the water. The cooperation of the chemistry 
laboratory should be sought, and distilled water should be used in 
boiling the vegetables. 

Cookers 

80. - - a. Prepare several kinds of roots and tubers (e.g. potatoes, 
carrots, sweet potatoes, beets, turnips, parsnips) in both the fireless 
and the pressure cooker. Note the temperature used for each cooker. 

b. Note the length of time required in each case to cook 
each vegetable and the amount of water necessary. 

c. Contrast the amount of water used and explain the 
difference. 

d. Compute the difference in labor, time, and fuel. 

81. - -Repeat Expt. 80, using leafy vegetables (e.g. spinach, cabbage) 
and report results in the same way. 

82. - - Experiment similarly with onions, cauliflower, and other 
vegetables. 

Summarize the evidence as to relative merits of the two methods 
for each kind of vegetable. Are there any vegetables for which 
either cooker would not be suitable? 

Buttered Beets 

Ingredients : 

6 beets (cooked) 2 tbsp. sugar 

2 tbsp. butter i tbsp. vinegar 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 65 

Method : 

Prepare the cooked beets in | in. slices and place in baking dish. 
Melt the butter, add the sugar and vinegar and allow mixture to 
come to the boiling point. Pour the sirup over the beets and place 
baking dish in moderately hot oven for ten minutes. 

Glazed Carrots with Peas 

Ingredients : 

\ c. butter 2 c. peas 

^ tbsp. sugar 6 carrots 

Method : 

Prepare carrots, cut in strips and boil 15 minutes. Drain, return 
to saucepan, add butter and sugar, cover and cook slowly until 
tender. Add the cooked peas (canned may be used) and season. 

Corn Pudding 

Ingredients : 

2 c. corn i tbsp. sugar 

2 egg yolks i tbsp. butter 

i tbsp. flour i c. milk 

\ tsp. salt | tsp. pepper 

2 egg whites 

Method : 

Melt the butter, add the sugar, flour, and milk. Let heat until 
mixture reaches boiling point. Add the slightly beaten egg yolks, 
then corn, salt and pepper. Fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites, 
pour into a buttered baking dish, and bake in a moderate oven 30-40 
minutes. Serve at once. 

Buttered Cabbage 

Ingredients : 

i cabbage 2 tbsp. melted butter 

salt water 

Method : 

Separate the cabbage leaves, wash and place in boiling salted 
water. Boil until leaves are tender. Drain the water from the 
leaves, place them in serving dish and add melted butter. Serve hot. 
F 



66 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Cabbage with Ham 

Ingredients : 

i cabbage | Ib. cooked ham 

water 
Method : 

Separate and wash the cabbage leaves. Place in boiling water, 
adding the cooked ham. Allow all to boil until cabbage is tender. 
Drain water from the leaves, arrange cabbage on serving dish, and 
garnish with ham. 

NOTE : Bacon may be substituted for ham. 



Creamed Cabbage 

Ingredients : 

1 cabbage J c. vinegar 

2 egg yolks J c. water 
\ tbsp. butter i c. cream 

Method : 

Separate the cabbage leaves, wash and cut them in thin pieces 
and cook in boiling salted water. Prepare a custard of the yolks of 
eggs, water, vinegar, and butter. Cook the mixture in a double 
boiler and as it thickens add the cream. When custard is thick, pour 
it over the cabbage in a serving dish. Serve hot. 



Stuffed Baked Potatoes 

Ingredients : 

6 baked potatoes 3 tbsp. hot milk 

2 tbsp. butter \ tsp. salt 

\ tsp. white pepper 
Method : 

Cut the potatoes in halves, lengthwise ; then without breaking the 
skin remove the inside. Mash with a fork, season, and return to 
shells, keeping it light and fluffy. Place on a pan in a hot oven until 
light brown. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 67 

Potato Apples 

Ingredients : 

2 c. hot riced potatoes cayenne 

2 tbsp. butter grating of nutmeg 

f c. grated cheese yolks 2 eggs or i whole egg 

Method: 

Mix ingredients in order given, and beat thoroughly. Shape in 
form of small apples, roll in flour, egg and crumbs, fry in deep fat. 
Insert a clove at stem and blossom end. 

Potato Puff 

Ingredients : 

2 c. mashed potatoes 2 tbsp. melted butter 

2 eggs i c. cream 

\ tsp. salt 

Method : 

Beat the potatoes, eggs, and cream until the mixture is smooth and 
light. Add the melted butter and salt. Pour mixture into a buttered 
baking dish and bake in a hot oven until it is well risen and brown. 

Potato Souffle 

Ingredients : 

4 large white potatoes \ c. milk 

i tbsp. butter \ tsp. pepper 

4 egg whites 4 egg yolks 

i tsp. salt 

Method : 

Boil and rice the potatoes. Add the milk, butter, salt, pepper, and 
yolks of eggs. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs and pour the 
mixture into a buttered baking dish. Bake in a moderate oven until 
the surface is browned. 

Sweet Potato Puff 
Ingredients : 

6 sweet potatoes 2 tbsp. butter 

whites 2 eggs f tsp. salt 



68 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Boil and mash the sweet potatos. Add the butter, salt, and stiffly 
beaten whites of eggs. Pour the mixture into buttered custard 
cups placed in boiling water. Bake in a hot oven twenty minutes. 
Serve in the cups with a parsley garnish. 

Glazed Sweet Potato I 

Ingredients : 

6 medium-sized potatoes \ c. sugar 

\ c. water i tbsp. butter 

Method : 

Wash and pare sweet potatoes. Cook ten minutes in boiling 
salted water. Drain, cut in halves lengthwise, and put in a buttered 
pan. Make a sirup of sugar, water; add butter. Brush potatoes 
with sirup and bake 15 minutes, basting twice with remaining sirup. 

Glazed Sweet Potato II 

Ingredients : 

6 medium-sized boiled sweet potatoes 

| c. butter i c. sugar 

hot water salt 

Method : 

Melt butter in a frying pan, add sugar and a little salt gradually 
to allow sugar to melt and form a brown sirup. Add enough hot 
water to reduce to a thin sirup. Cut potatoes in lengthwise slices, 
place in pan and heat over fire, basting constantly until they show a 
rich golden glaze. Serve at once. 

Browned Parsnips 

Ingredients : 

cold, boiled parsnips pepper 

butter salt 

Method : 

Cut parsnips in lengthwise slices. Place in butter until well 
browned. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 69 

Stuffed Peppers 

Ingredients : 

6 green peppers 3 tbsp. crumbs 

1 onion 8 tbsp. chopped ham 

2 tbsp. butter salt 

f c. brown sauce pepper 

Method : 

Cut a slice from stem end or cut peppers lengthwise. Remove all 
seeds and parboil 10 minutes. Do not leave in water. Cut onion 
in small pieces and brown in butter. Add sauce and bread crumbs. 
Sprinkle with pepper and salt. Fill peppers with mixture. Cover 
with buttered crumbs and bake 10 minutes in a hot oven. 



Winter Squash 

Steamed: 

Cut squash in pieces, remove seeds and stringy portion, and pare. 
Steam until soft. Mash and season with butter, salt, and pepper. 

Baked: 

Cut in 2-inch pieces, remove seeds and stringy portion, place in a 
pan, cover and bake until soft in a slow oven. Mash and serve in the 
shell or remove from the shell, mash, and season. 



Squash Souffle 

Ingredients : 

2 c. hot steamed squash i^ c. milk 

i tbsp. brown sugar 2 eggs 

i tsp. salt \ tsp. pepper 

Method : 

Wash squash, add remaining ingredients, eggs beaten separately, 
and whites folded in last. Place in pan of hot water and bake in 
moderate oven until firm. 



70 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Baked Summer Squash 

Ingredients : 

3 c. mashed, cooked squash i egg 

2 1 c. bread crumbs i tsp. onion juice 

\ c. milk | tsp. pepper 

6 slices bacon i tsp. salt 

Method : 

Broil the bacon, and add 2 tbsp. of the fat to the squash. Com- 
bine ingredients and place in a buttered baking dish. Bake in a 
moderate oven until brown. Garnish with the bacon. 



Vegetables en Casserole I 

Ingredients : 

6 potatoes \ c. rice 

i turnip i tsp. salt 

i c. peas | tsp. pepper 

i c. tomatoes f tsp. allspice 

i onion 4 c. brown stock 

Method*: 

Prepare vegetables and wash rice. Put ingredients in layers in a 

casserole, add stock, cover and bake slowly 3 hours. 



Vegetables en Casserole II 

Ingredients : 

2 cooked turnips 2 tbsp. butter 

4 cooked carrots i tsp. salt 

4 c. cooked spinach J tsp. pepper 

Method : 

Line a buttered mold with strips of carrots and turnips. Fill with 
spinach seasoned with butter, salt, and pepper, set in a pan of hot 
water and bake 20 minutes. Remove from mold and surround with 
white sauce. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 71 

Eggplant en Casserole 

Ingredients : 

2 c. mashed, boiled eggplant i tsp. salt 

\ c. stewed tomatoes | tsp. pepper 

3 tbsp. butter i tbsp. grated onion 
3 tbsp. chopped, cooked meat \ c. buttered crumbs 

Method : 

Combine vegetables, meat, and seasonings, place in a casserole 
and cover with crumbs. Brown in a hot oven. 

Boston Baked Beans 

Ingredients : 

i qt. pea beans i tbsp. salt 

i Ib. fat salt pork \ c. molasses, New Orleans 

i tsp. soda \ tbsp. mustard 

cayenne boiling water 

i small onion 
Method : 

Pick over and wash beans, cover with cold water and soak over- 
night. Drain, cover with fresh water and parboil, with soda. Drain 
again. Pour boiling water over pork, scrape rind and score. Cut 
off one thin slice and place with the onion in the bottom of the pot. 
Put beans in pot, then press pork in beans, leaving only the rind 
above. Mix the seasonings, molasses, and i c. boiling water and pour 
into the bean pot and bake in slow oven 8 to 10 hours. Add water as 
needed. Uncover bean pot during the last hour of baking to brown 
the rind. Serve with Boston Brown Bread. 



Dried Lima Beans 

Ingredients : 

i c. beans i tbsp. butter 

tsp. salt | tsp. white pepper 

Method : 

Wash the beans and soak overnight in plenty of cold water. Drain, 
boil in salted water 5 minutes. Add J tsp. baking soda to each 



72 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

quart water. Put them into the tireless cooker for 4 hours or more. 
Drain, season with the butter, salt, and pepper, and reheat if necessary. 



Stewed Lentils 

Ingredients : 

i c. lentils \ small onion 

\ Ib. bacon water 

\ c. vinegar 

Method : 

Wash lentils and soak overnight. Drain, cover with fresh cold 
water and cook with bacon and onion several hours, until tender. 
Drain, reserving i c. liquid ; thicken this with 2 tbsp. browned flour 
mixed with 2 tbsp. cold water. Boil 5 minutes, add the vinegar, 
and reheat the lentils in this sauce. Season with pepper, and salt if 
necessary. 

White Sauce 



PROPORTIONS 


FLOUR 


BUTTER 


SALT 


MILK 


I. 


Thin - - cream soups .... 


i tbsp. 


i tbsp. 


Itsp. 


I C. 


II. 


Medium - - creamed vegetables . 


2 tbsp. 


2 tbsp. 


itsp. 


I C. 


III.. 


Thick creamed oysters . 


3 tbsp. 


3 tbsp. 


itsp. 


I C. 


IV. 


Very thick - - croquettes . 


4 tbsp. 


1-2 tbsp. 


itsp. 


I C. 



Method : 
French 

Melt butter, add flour. Add milk, stirring constantly to prevent 
lumping or burning. Cook until mixture has thoroughly boiled. 
Add salt and pepper. If made in quantities of more than 2 c., a 
double boiler should be used in order to prevent burning or scorching. 

Hygienic 

Make a paste of flour and milk. Cook in a double boiler for 30 
minutes. Just before serving add butter, salt, and pepper. " Hy- 
gienic " white sauce is supposed to be more easily digested than that 
made by the French method as the starch is more thoroughly cooked 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 73 

and butter not cooked. The French method is more commonly 
used, however. 

Uses of White Sauce 

Cream soups Custard for fillings and ice creams 

Creamed vegetables and oysters Gravies 
Croquettes Souffles 

Variations 
Addition of eggs, cheese, fruit juices. 

Creamed Vegetables 
2 c. vegetable i c. white sauce II 

Scalloped Vegetables 

2 c. vegetables i c. white sauce II 

i c. buttered crumbs 
(See rules for scalloped dishes below) 

NOTE : J c. grated cheese may be substituted for buttered crumbs. 

SCALLOPED DISHES 

General Rules 

1. The crumbs used for scalloped dishes are prepared from the 
inside of stale bread. Crumb the bread by grating, or by rubbing 
two pieces together. 

2. Place the food material in two layers, using one quarter the 
amount of crumbs on the bottom of the dish, one quarter in the middle, 
and the remaining half on the top of the dish. 

3. Butter the baking dishes and shells. 

4. A moderate oven is best used in the baking. 

Crumbs for Scalloped Dishes 

Ingredients : 

i c. crumbs white pepper or cayenne 

| tsp. salt i tbsp. butter 



74 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Melt the butter in a baking dish, remove from fire and stir in 
seasoned crumbs lightly, using a fork. 



Scalloped Tomatoes 

Ingredients : 

9 

i can or i qt. tomatoes i tsp. salt 

3 c. crumbs J tsp. pepper 

3 tbsp. butter 
Method : 

Prepare according to rule and bake one half hour covered; then 
uncover to brown crumbs. 



Scalloped Apples 

Ingredients : 

3 c. crumbs \ tsp. nutmeg 

3 tbsp. butter \ tsp. cinnamon 

3 c. sliced apples \ lemon, juice and rind 
^ c. sugar \ c. water 

Method : 

Mix sugar and spice. Prepare according to the rule and bake one 
hour, covered ; then uncover to brown crumbs. The water must be 
added before the top layer of crumbs. If the apples are tart, the 
lemon juice may be omitted. More water may be needed if the apples 
are not juicy. 

CREAM SOUPS 

Cream of Asparagus Soup 

Ingredients : 

i bunch asparagus cubed 4 tbsp. flour 

i qt. boiling water i| tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. butter pepper 

i pt. milk 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 75 

Cream of Celery Soup 

Ingredients : 

i^ c. celery cubed 4 tbsp. flour 

i pt. boiling water ^ tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. butter i pt. milk 

pepper 

Cream of Chicken Soup 

Ingredients : 

i qt. chicken stock 4 tbsp. flour 

i pt. milk | tsp. celery salt 

4 tbsp. chicken fat salt and pepper 

Cream of String Bean Soup 

Ingredients : 

i can beans 4 tbsp. flour 

i pt. boiling water i| tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. butter pepper 

i pt. meat stock i pt. milk 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Ingredients : 

i qt. tomatoes | c. flour 

i tsp. soda 3 tsp. salt 

| c. butter tsp. white pepper 

i qt. milk 
Method : 

Stew the tomatoes slowly 15 minutes. Strain and add soda while 
hot. Combine with white sauce. 

PUREES 

Corn Soup I 

Ingredients : 

i can corn 4 tbsp. butter 

i pt. water 4 tbsp. flour 

i qt. milk i^ tsp. salt 

i slice onion pepper 



76 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Corn Soup II 

Ingredients : 

i can cornlet i tbsp. chopped onion 

i pt. water \ c. flour 

i qt. milk 2 tsp. salt 

\ c. butter \ tsp. white pepper 

yolks 2 eggs 
Method : 

Cook the cornlet with the water 20 minutes. Cook the onion in the 
melted butter until brown, add flour, seasoning, and the milk gradually 
as for white sauce. Strain, add strained cornlet, combine mixtures, 
pour over the well-beaten yolks, and serve at once. 



Pea Soup 

Ingredients : 

i can peas ^ tsp. salt 

i qt. boiling water ^ tsp. sugar 

5 tbsp. butter pepper 

5 tbsp. flour i pt. milk 



Potato Soup 

Ingredients : 

3 potatoes i tbsp. flour 

i pt. milk or i tsp. salt 

1 pt. milk and water f tsp. white pepper 

2 tsp. chopped onion celery salt 

i tbsp. butter 2 tsp. chopped parsley 

Method : 

Boil potatoes until soft, drain ; scald milk and onion in a double 
boiler. Beat potatoes with a wire potato masher, add hot liquid, 
strain, and return to the double boiler. Make a white sauce, using 
this as liquid. Cook 5 minutes, and add the chopped parsley just 
before serving. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 



77 



Ingredients : 

i qt. black beans 



Black Bean Soup 



4 qts. cold water 

2 tbsp. chopped onion 

2 tsp. salt 

| tsp. pepper 

cayenne 



1 piece celery root 
j tsp. mustard 

4 tbsp. butter 

2 tbsp. flour 

1 large lemon 

2 hard-cooked eggs 



Method : 

Wash the beans and soak them overnight in 2 qts. of cold water, 
drain and rinse thoroughly ; brown the onion in 2 tbsp. of the butter, 
put in with the beans, add the celery root, and 2 qts. cold water. 
Cook slowly until beans are soft, adding more water as it boils away ; 
rub through a strainer ; add the seasonings and heat. Heat the 
remaining butter in a saucepan, add the flour, then the hot soup 
gradually. Cut the lemon and eggs in thin slices and serve with the 
soup. 

FOOD VALUES 
Baked Beans 













w 








^_^ 






j 


H , 


<z 




H 
Oj 


w 




o 


|Q^ 




MATERIAL 


w 

P 

in 


w 
o 5 

1-1 rt 

W f i 


>-! ! 

H | 
O >- 


< rt 
^ 


gs 

w 2 


O j 


H 


, C/ t/3 

B P 
hH ^/) f^ 


9,^ i 

PH 


|| 




w 


>O 


PH 





O r^ 
W O 


H < 
U 


O 


<^0 


o w ^D 














u 




$ 


CJ 


fcU 




Beans . 


I C. 


188.5 


42.41 


3-40 


112. l6 


650 


-0415 


.409 


2. II 


.013 


Salt pork . 


lib. 


71-5 


1-34 


61.65 




560 


0347 


.001 


.028 


.0002 


Onion . 


i slice 


17 


.02 


.003 


.15 


7 


.0018 


.008 


.Ol6 


.OOOI 


Molasses . 


i tbsp. 


7.0 


17 




4.83 


20 


.0009 


.02 


.02 


.OOI4 


Total, 






















cooked 


3^ c. 


856 


43-94 


65-05 


117.14 


1237 


.0789 


-438 


2.174 


.0147 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


|c. 


69.16 


2.74 


5.26 


9-46 


IOO 


.006 


035 


173 


.OOI2 



78 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Creamed Potato 













H 














g 


< 


B 


tn 


g </3 


en 







1? 

550* "> 


Efl 


MATERIAL 


tn 


W fl 

3 


l 






w 2 


gg 


o 


P c 

tn C 


c 

gag 


|j 




W 


|o 


s 


*o 


O 
3 


H < 
U 




^"rt 


o^O 














O 




$ 


CJ 


A.CJ 




Potato . 


2 C. 


291.6 


6.41 


.29 


54.65 


242 


.018 


.045 


4 


.003 


Butter . 


2 tbsp. 


36.2 


.36 


30.77 




278 


.02 


.008 


.Oil 




Flour . . 


2 tbsp. 


14.15 


1.58 


.014 


10.59 


50 


.0015 


.003 


.025 


.0002 


Milk . .. 


I C. 


245.9 


8.11 


9.83 


12.29 


170 


.0225 


4 


51 


.0005 


Salt . . 






















Total, 






















cooked 


3s c. 


575.3 


16.47 


40.7 


77.53 


740 


.062 


456 


.946 


.0037 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


1 f, 

3 C - 


77-66 


2.22 


5-49 


2.71 


IOO 


.008 


.063 


.132 


.0005 



Cream of Pea Soup 



Peas . 


i can 


440 


15-84 


.88 


43.12 


242 


15 


.096 


.605 


.0036 


Milk . . 


2 C. 


462.4 


15-25 


18.49 


23.12 


3i9 


.045 


733 


.966 


.001 


Butter . 


2 tbsp. 


39 


39 


33-15 




3 


034 


.009 


.012 




Flour . 


2 tbsp. 


14 


1-57 


.14 


10.48 


50 


.0015 


.0034 


.024 


.OOI9 


Water 


2 C. 




















Seasoning 






















Total, 






















cooked 


4C. 


1034 


31-05 


52.56 


71.82 


911 


2307 


.8414 


1.607 


.0065 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


2 
3 C - 


H3 


3.10 


5-25 


7.18 


IOO 


.023 


.0841 


.06 


.OOO6 



Cream of Tomato Soup 



Tomato . 


I C. 


240 


2.88 


-48 


9-6 


55 


025 


.048 


.138 


-0093 


Butter . 


i tbsp. 


15-5 


15 


I3-I7 




119 


.0123 


0035 


.0047 




Flour . 


i tbsp. 


7-5 


79 


.07 


5-29 


25 


.0007 


.0017 


.0125 


.0001 


Milk . . 


I C. 


233-4 


7.14 


8.67 


11.83 


150 


.0225 


.358 


-454 


.0005 


Seasonings 






















Total, 






















cooked 


if c. 


423-2 


10.96 


22.39 


26.72 


349 


.06 


.4112 


.6092 


.0099 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


i r 

2 C. 


121.63 


3-13 


6.4 


7.64 


IOO 


.017 


.1176 


.1742 


.0028 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 



79 



Cream of Potato Soup 













a 








___^ 






a 

a 


s * 


*Z t/J 


m 




m 
S & 


C/3 

iJ W 




6 

M ~ 


^ /$ 

g^ 

g Cb f 




MATERIAL 


3 

C/3 


W c 

g 

3 2 


is 

S 2 




gs 

33 2 


II 


H 

8 


w tn S 


o a 

B"S| 


| 




w 

M 


uy ** 







"^O 


o 


H^ 


u 


r <_oO 


SoO 


1-1 




S 


^^ 


PH 




A 


U 




^"13 


a cs 














< 






U 


PnU 














u 








^^ 




Potatoes . 


3 


360 


7-9 


.36 


74.8 


300 


.012 


057 


498 


.0045 


Butter . 


2 tbsp. 


26 


.26 


22.1 




2OO 


.02 


.006 


.008 




Flour . 


2 tbsp. 


i5 


1.58 


15 


II. IO 


50 


.OOI 


0035 


.025 


.0002 


Milk . . 


i c. 


289 


9-5 


11.56 


14.45 


200 


.026 


.478 


.606 


.0006 


Water . 


*c. 




















Total, 






















cooked 


2^ C 


690 


19.24 


34-17 


100.35 


750 


059 


5445 


I-I37 


.0053 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


2 ,- 
3 <- 


89-7 


2-5 


4.44 


13.04 


IOO 


.007 


.0707 


.147 


.0006 



Cream of Lentil Soup 



Milk . . 


3 r 
4 C - 


162.34 


5-34 


6.54 


8.10 


112 


.018 


.25 


34 


.0003 


Butter . 


3 tbsp. 


58 


-58 


49.71 




450 


.03 


0135 


.018 




Lentils 


2 tbsp. 


28.7 


7-37 


.29 


16.93 


IOO 


.005 


.03 


.18 


.OO24 


Cheese 


i cu.in. 


22.8 


6.5 


8.17 


.004 


IOO 


.004 


.25 


329 




Water 


I C. 


225 


















Seasonings 






















Total, 






















cooked 


2\ C. 


534-35 


19.79 


19.71 


25-03 


762 


.057 


5435 


.867 


.OO27 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


i r 

2 C. 


70 


2-59 


2-59 


3-29 


IOO 


.0075 


.0706 


.112 


.0003 



Split Pea Soup 



Peas . . 


tc. 


56.2 


13-8 


.56 


34-8 


200 


.012 


.08 


50 


.003 


Onion . 


\ tbsp. 


6-5 


.10 


.019 


64 


3 


.OOI 


.0036 


.0072 


.00003 


Butter . 


f tbsp. 


ii. 5 


.11 


9-77 




88 


.01 


.0026 


.0035 




Flour . 


\ tbsp. 


5-6 


.62 


.0564 


4.19 


20 


.OOI 


.0014 


.01 


.00008 


Milk . . 


|c. 


112. 2 


3-7 


448 


5-6 


77 


.01 


.1771 


233 


.00026 


Seasonings 






















Total, 






















cooked 


ifc. 


263.5 


i8.33 


14.88 


45-23 


388 


.034 


2647 


7537 


00337 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


|c. 


67.71 


4.71 


3-82 


11.62 


IOO 


.0075 


.0661 


.1884 


.0008 



8o LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

REFERENCES 
Vegetables 

ABEL. Beans, Peas, and other Legumes as Food. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 121 (1900). 
BAILEY. Cyclopedia of Agriculture and Cyclopedia of Horticulture. 
BARROWS. Course in the Use and Preparation of Vegetable Foods. 

United States Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment 

Station, Bulletin 245 (1912). 
BEATTIE. Celery. United States Department of Agriculture, 

Farmers' Bulletin 282 (1917). 
BREAZEALE. Canning Vegetables in the Home. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 359 (1909). 
BUCHANAN. Household Bacteriology. 
CORBETT. A Successful Method of Marketing Vegetable Products. 

Yearbook of Department of Agriculture for 1912. 
CORBETT. Tomatoes. United States Department of Agriculture, 

Farmers' Bulletin 220. 

DE RIVAZ, EVELYN. Little French Dinners. 
GEORGE. Vegetarian Cookery. 
LANGWORTHY. Green Vegetables and Their Uses in the Diet. 

United States Department of Agriculture, Yearbook for 1911. 
LANGWORTHY. -Potatoes and other Root Crops as Food. United 

States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 295 (1907). 
LEACH. Food Inspection and Analysis. 
PARLOA. Preparation of Vegetables for the Table. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 256 (1906). 
Iowa State College Agricultural Extension Department. Potatoes, 

Demonstration, Short Course Class Notes, Nos. 3 and 16. 
SHERMAN. Food Products. 
SHERMAN. Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. 
THOMPSON. Practical Dietetics. 
WILEY. Foods and their Adulterations. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE SOUPS 8l 

Soups 

DELIEE. Franco-American Cooking Book. 

ELLWANGER. The Pleasures of the Table. An Account of Gastron- 
omy from Ancient Days to the Present Time. 

FARMER. The Boston Cooking School Cook Book. 

ROBBINS. Creamed Soups and Vegetables. Oregon Agricultural 
College, Extension Service, No. 135. 



CHAPTER VI 
MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 

MILK is probably the most important article of diet used to- 
day, because of the large place it fills not only in the diet of 
children and invalids but also in the economic and hygienic 
nutrition of healthy adults. 

In qualitative composition milk is an aqueous solution of 
milk sugar, mineral matter, and albumin with fat globules held 
in suspension and casein together with mineral matter in a state 
of semi-solution. Other facts regarding the constituents of 
milk will be developed in the course of the experimental work 
included in this chapter. 

The quantities of the chief constituents average approxi- 
mately as follows : water, 87 per cent ; milk sugar, 5 per cent ; 
fat, 4 per cent ; proteins, 3.3 per cent ; ash, 0.7 per cent. Mar- 
ket milk may of course be somewhat less rich in one or more of 
the foodstuffs than this average, but nearly every state now has 
legal requirements governing the milk industry and setting at 
least a minimum standard for the product. In buying milk 
the sanitary quality should be carefully considered as well as 
the food value. See Leach's Food Inspection and Analysis, 
Chapter VII, Rosenau's The Milk Question, and Sherman's 
Food Products, Chapter III. 

Milk is the most important of all foods as a source of body- 
building material for growing children. While the great eco- 
nomic growth of the milk industry, the progress in the chemical 
and bacteriological study of milk, and the care given to the 

legal and sanitary control of the production and handling of 

82 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 83 

milk are all indications of a growing realization of the impor- 
tance of milk as a food, yet it is of interest to find that the great 
quantity of milk used as such in this country amounts on calcu- 
lation to only a little over a half a pint per day for every man, 
woman, and child, whereas the study of dietetics teaches us that 
adults should have at least as much milk as this and children 
a good deal more - - " a quart of milk a day for every child ' 
if possible. The study of milk cookery should therefore have 
as one of its main objects the development of a higher appre- 
ciation of milk as a food and the encouragement of its more 
liberal use in the diet, both as a beverage and in the greatest 
variety of cooked foods. 

EXPERIMENTS ON MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 1 

Cream 

83. Examine a bottle of milk obtained from a reliable dealer. 

a. Read the statements on the cap. 

b. Of what significance are they? 

c. What are the two layers in the bottle ? 

d. Why is the yellow layer at the top ? 

84. a. Examine with the microscope a tiny drop of cream. 

b. Make a drawing of the fat droplets. 

85. a. Divide a quart of cream into four cups: A, B, C, D. 

b. Heat A in a double boiler until a thick scum appears. 
Allow the cream to cool and then beat it with a Dover egg beater. 
(Keep B, C, and D for subsequent experiments.) 

c. Can this cream be beaten stiff? 

d. What was the scum which appeared when the cream was 
heated? 

86. a. Whip B with a wire whisk until stiff. 

b. Beat c with a Dover egg beater until stiff. 

1 A division in the recipes for milk and cheese has been made, but the experiments 
for milk and milk products have been considered together for purposes of compari- 
son and summary. 



84 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

c. Compare A, B, and C as to flavor, consistency, and 
volume. 

d. How do you explain differences noted ? 

87. - - Beat D with a Dover egg beater until fat globules form 
masses and butter results. Drain off buttermilk and save for further 
experiments. 

Compute the per cent of butter obtained from a unit of cream. 

88. - - Wash the butter in cold water until no more buttermilk 
appears. " Pat " out the water. 

a. Weigh the washed butter and divide it into two parts of 
equal weight. 

b. Add sufficient salt to one part to give it the usual salty 
flavor. 

c. Put both parts in the refrigerator for a few hours to ripen. 

d. Compare as to weight, flavor, and texture. 

Butter 

89. - - Heat a teaspoon each of pure butter, renovated butter, and 
oleomargarine in separate tablespoons over a bunsen burner. 

Note the manner in which each melts and the appearance after 
melting. 

This is called the foam test for butter. \Vhy should the butter 
boil quietly while the renovated butter and the oleomargarine sputter 
and crackle? 

90. - - Place a tablespoon of each of the three samples used in 
Expt. 89 in each of three small beakers containing four tablespoons 
of sweet milk. Heat the beakers until the fats are melted, then 
place them in cold water and while the fat is still melted stir each 
vigorously with a splint of wood. Note the form the pure and 
renovated butters take and contrast with the condition of the oleo- 
margarine. 

Buttermilk 

91. - - Prepare butter from sweet cream. Prepare butter from an 
equal volume of sour cream. Compare resulting butter as to flavor, 
texture, and quantity. (Keep the buttermilk for Expts. 92 and 93.) 



MILK, CREAM, AND' BUTTER 85 

92. - - a. Compare each buttermilk as to flavor and color. 

b. Use each in gingerbread. Is any perceptible difference 
noticed? 

93. - - a. Reaction of milk. Test fresh milk with delicate litmus 
paper and record results for comparison with tests to be made later. 
b. Compare the behavior of the two buttermilks from Expt. 91 
toward litmus paper with that just observed in the case of sweet 
milk and with each other. Is there any relation between the differ- 
ence here seen and that observed in making gingerbread (Expt. 92) ? 

Constituents of Milk 

94. a. The presence of water and fat in milk has been suffi- 
ciently demonstrated in the above experiments. 

b. If a platinum or quartz dish is available, a little of the 
milk may be dried and burned to determine whether it yields ash. 

95. - - a. Test milk for protein by means of the biuret 1 and xantho- 
proteic 2 reactions. 

b. Try heating some of the fresh milk to boiling. Does it 
contain a protein coagulable by heat like that of egg-white (page 109) ? 

96. - - Acidulate another portion of the milk with acetic acid or 
vinegar, warm gently, and compare with the preceding test. Filter 
through wet filter paper and save the nitrate. Apply the xantho- 
proteic reaction 2 to the solid which remains on the filter paper. 

97. - Test a portion of the filtrate from Expt. 96 for the presence 
of sugar by means of the Fehling-Benedict test (page 13). 

What conclusion can be drawn from the result ? 
Do all sugars respond to this test ? 

98. - - Apply the iodine test (page 13) both to a portion of the 
filtrate from Expt. 96 and to a separate portion of the whole milk. 

1 Biuret Reaction. If a few .drops of copper sulphate solution are added to pro- 
tein, in solution, and then an excess of caustic potash added, a red to violet colora- 
tion is produced. 

2 Xanthoproteic Reaction. When nitric acid is added to protein (either in solu- 
tion or in solid form) a yellow color is produced which, on the addition of ammonia, 
becomes bright orange. 



86 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

What conclusions are justified as to the nature of the carbohydrate 
portion of milk? 

99. Heat milk in double boiler. 

Strain the heated milk through a damp cheesecloth and test again 
for the xanthoproteic reaction. 

100. - - Prepare 4 junket custards, using i c. sweet milk and \ 
junket tablet dissolved in f tsp. cold water in each instance. Pro- 
ceed as follows : 

a. Add dissolved junket to cold milk. 

b. Add dissolved junket to warm milk. 

c. Add dissolved junket to milk and boil i minute. 

d. Add dissolved junket to cold milk. Allow a, b, and c 
to stand in room at room temperature. Put d in refrigerator. 

e. Compare results at end of 10 minutes. 

/. Which method has proven most satisfactory ? 

g. Why? 

h. What is junket ? 

101. - - Prepare i qt. of junket according to the most successful 
method. After the mixture has stood for i hour, cut with a knife into 
small pieces. Note results. What is the yellowish liquid that appears ? 

102. - - a. Strain mass prepared in Expt. 101 through wet cheese- 
cloth. 

b. Apply the following tests to residue and filtrate re- 
spectively : 

Biuret, page 85 

Coagulation on heating 
Xanthoproteic, page 85 
Fehling-Benedict solution, page 13 

c. What are your conclusions ? 

Milk (Sour) 

103. Have ready milk which has been sour i day, 2 days, 3 days. 

a. Test equal volumes of each with litmus paper. 

b. Neutralize each with -a solution of baking soda, testing 
with litmus paper. 

c. Note the amount of soda required in each instance. 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 87 

104. - - a. Heat equal portions of each specimen of sour milk in a 
double boiler. 

b. Note the clotting which appears. 

c. Which clots quickest and in largest quantity? 

d. To what is this due ? 

105. - - a. Add salt to each portion in double boiler in the propor- 
tion of | tsp. to i c. of sour milk. 

b. Note the effect. 

c. How do you explain the result ? 

106. - - Strain the clotted masses from Expt. 105 through wet cheese- 
cloth and allow to hang undisturbed until nitrate no longer drips. 
Test as usual with : 

Biuret, page 85 
Xanthoproteic, page 85 
Coagulation on heating 
Fehling-Benedict solution, page 13 

107. - - a. Compare the cheese obtained in Expt. 106 with that 
made from sweet milk. 

b. Note the difference in consistency, texture, and flavor. 

c. To what is this due? 

108. - Test each specimen of sour milk with litmus paper. 

a. Which turns the paper quickest ? 

b. What acid is present in sour milk? 

c. How does it originate ? 

(Leach, Food Inspection and Analysis?) 

d. With the litmus paper still in the milk, add sufficient 
baking soda to neutralize the acid. Is a physical or chemical change 
produced ? 

e. What is the gas given off after the soda is added ? 
/. In what food products is this principle applied? 

g. Test i c. of sour milk with litmus paper and determine 
how much soda it is necessary to add to neutralize the acid. 

//. Take an average of the results of the class and com- 
pare with the amount usually given in cook books. How does it 
compare ? 



88 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

109. - - a. Test i c. of sweet milk with litmus and add sufficient 
vinegar to produce the same intensity of color as in 108, g. 

b. Neutralize a part of this milk with soda. 

c. Compare the amount of soda needed with 108, g. 

d. Prepare gingerbread, using the milk in 108, g in one in- 
stance and that in 109, a in the second instance. 

e. Compare the two products. Is one preferable to the 
other? 

/. Repeat g and heat the milk until the curd separates 
out. Compare this curd with that of normally sour milk and also 
with the curd made with junket and sweet milk. 

g. What are the noticeable differences and to what are 
they due? 

h. What sources of sour milk and curd have we? 

Cheese 

Cheese has already been prepared with sweet and sour milk. 
Test now commercial cheese. 

110.- -Prepare three equal weights of American cheese, A, B, C. 
Heat A in a saucepan, B in a double boiler, and C in hot milk. Com- 
pare results. 

111. - - Prepare two equal weights of American cheese, A, B. 
Cut into small pieces and put into equal volumes of warm milk. 

a. Continue heating A in a double boiler until cheese is 
melted. Examine consistency of mixture. 

b. Continue heating B in saucepan and allow milk to boil. 
Compare result with that in a. How do you account for the differ- 
ence in appearance, consistency, and difficulty in mastication? 

Absorption of Odors 

112. - - Allow samples of butter, cream, sweet milk, and sour milk 
to stand in a compartment by themselves in the refrigerator. Arrange 
corresponding samples in a compartment already containing cooked 
onions or cooked cauliflower. 

Allow each to stand i day. Note taste and odor of each. 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 



113. - - Put I tsp. of kerosene into a pitcher. Allow to stand i 
hour. Wash the pitcher thoroughly. Turn in i c. sweet milk. 
Allow this to stand i hour. Note taste and odor. 

MILK DESSERTS 
Junkets 



INGREDIENTS 


PLAIN 


COFFEE 


CHOCOLATE 


Milk 


i qt. 


i qt. and i c 


i qt (i oz chocolate 


Sugar 


M v ' 

3 tbSD. 


boiled coffee 
ic. 


or 2 tbsp. cocoa- 
boil 5 min. with \ c. 
of the qt.) 
^c 


Vanilla 


i tsp 


2 


2 *- 

i tsp 


Tablet 


I 


I 


I 


Cold water 


i tbsp. 


i tbsp 


i tbsp 











General Method: 

Dissolve tablet in cold water. 

Heat milk to lukewarm temperature in a double boiler. 

Add sugar and stir until dissolved. 

Add dissolved tablet and pour into serving glasses. 

Let stand at room temperature until firm. 

Place in refrigerator until ready to serve. 

Garnish with whipped cream or fruit. 

MILK AND EGG DESSERTS 

Custards 

General Rules: 

Scald the milk in a double boiler. Beat eggs slightly, add sugar 
and salt and the scalded milk gradually. A moderate temperature 
is necessary in cooking custards to prevent curdling. Cool cup cus- 
tards before turning out. 

Soft Custards 

Cook custard in double boiler, stirring constantly until mixture 
coats the spoon. Strain. Cool and flavor. 



90 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Baked Custards 

Strain uncooked custard into cups previously wet with cold water. 
Place in pan of hot water in moderate oven until firm. 

TEST : A silver knife inserted in custard will come out clean when custard 
is firm enough. 

Steamed Custards 

Place cups in a steamer or in pan of boiling water. Place towel 
under cover to absorb moisture. 

Caramel 

Ingredients : 

i c. sugar | c. boiling water 

Method : 

Melt sugar in iron pan over a low flame. Move gently with a knife 
and occasionally change position of pan to prevent burning the 
sugar. When the sugar has melted to a brown sirup, add the boiling 
water and simmer a little longer. Strain. 

Caramel Custard I 

Prepare caramel and add it to the scalded milk. 
NOTE : The caramel is in the custard. 

Caramel Custard II 

Prepare caramel and divide it equally among the custard cups. 
Place a spoon in the cup and pour the custard slowly down it. This 
keeps the two from mixing. 

NOTE : The caramel is a sauce for the custard, when turned out. 

Custard 

Ingredients : 

1 pt. milk 4 tbsp. sugar 

2 eggs or 4 yolks | tsp. salt 

\ tsp. vanilla 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 9 1 

Chocolate Custard 
| oz. chocolate to i pt. milk 

Melt chocolate in a double boiler and add the scalded milk to it a 
teaspoonful at a time until smooth. The remainder may be added 
rapidly. 

NOTE : Follow directions carefully so the chocolate will not separate. 

VARIATIONS 
Floating Island 

Soft custard served in glasses with meringue on top. Garnish 
with jellies or cherries. 

Tapioca or Rice Custard 

Ingredients : 

| c. rice or pearl tapioca f c. sugar 

2 c. milk | tsp. salt 

2 eggs i tsp. vanilla 
Method : 

Cook soaked tapioca or rice in the scalded milk. Proceed as for 
plain custard. 

a. Cook in double boiler as a soft custard. 

b. Bake in buttered pudding dish as a baked custard. 

Bread Puddings 

Soak stale bread crumbs from inside of loaf in scalded milk 30 min- 
utes. Prepare custard with other ingredients. Bake in buttered 
pudding dish as a baked custard. 

Save whites of eggs for a meringue. 

Bread Pudding 

Ingredients : 

2 c. crumbs \ tsp. salt 

i qt. milk 2 eggs 

\ c. sugar grated nutmeg 

i c. raisins or currants 



92 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Queen of Puddings 

Spread a baked bread pudding with jam or jelly before placing 
meringue on top. 



Ingredients : 



Chocolate Bread Pudding 



2 oz. chocolate i tsp. vanilla 

and ingredients for plain Bread Pudding 

FOOD VALUES 
Baked Custard 













w 














a 

M 


S < 


2 


tn 


i 


VI 

J w 






s rt 

gCJ tn 


|3 

5 Cu f> 


m 


MATERIAL 


p 
01 


1 


g9 

O >-i 


H g 


s 

s 2 


jsi 

o 3 


H 
O 


^ t/3 C 


o c z c 

B*i i 




>s 


^^ 


1 


M O 


go 


H < 




r <_oO 


C/J - - _ L_^ _ 

o uO O 




J 


^* 


P-I 







CJ 




^"rt 


a"rt 














< 






CJ 


PH O 














u 








^ 




Milk . . . 


2 C. 


443-2 


14.62 


17-7 


22.16 


306 


-045 


70 


.92 


.OOI 


Eggs . . . 


2 


98.1 


13-14 


10.3 




145 


.06 


.087 


348 


.OO27 


Sugar . 


4 tbsp. 


51.2 






51-2 


2O 


.OO7 








Salt . . . 


ii tsp. 




















Nutmeg . 


Jtsp. 




















Total, cooked 


4ic. 


574-3 


27.76 


28.02 


73.36 


471 


.112 


.787 


1.268 


.0037 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


I C. 


1 20. 6 


5.82 


5-8 


15-4 


IOO 


.023 


.165 


.266 


.0007 



Rice Pudding with Eggs 



Cooked rice . 


1 r 

2 C - 


96.8 


2.71 


.IO 


23.62 


1 06 


.0048 


.003 


.06 


.0003 


Milk . . . 


i r 

2 C - 


in. 7 


3-67 


4.46 


5-58 


77 


.Oil 


.177 


.234 


.0002 


Egg ... 


1 
2 


28.5 


3.82 


2.99 




42 


.016 


.025 


.1 


.0008 


Sugar . 


i tbsp. 


13-8 






13-8 


55 


.002 








Vanilla . . 


|tsp. 


13- 










.0022 








Total, cooked 


I C. 


214.9 


IO.2 


7-55 


43 


280 


.036 


.205 


-394 


.0013 


zoo-Calorie 






















Portion 


tc. 


76.49 


3.06 


2.26 


12.9 


IOO 


.01 


.006 


.Oil 


.0003 



MILK, CREAM, AND BUTTER 93 

REFERENCES 

Milk 

ATWATER. Milk as Food. United States Department of Agricul- 
ture, Farmers' Bulletin 74 (1904). 

BUCHANAN. Household Bacteriology. 

CONN. Bacteria in Milk and its Products. 

CUNNINGHAM. The Production of Clean Milk. Ohio State Univer- 
sity, Agricultural College, Farmers' Reading Course (1913). 

ECKLES. Dairy Cattle and Milk Production. 

FARRINGTON and WOLL. Testing Milk and its Products. 

GUTHRIE. Cream Separation. Cornell Reading Courses. Dairy- 
ing Series No. 5 (1915). 

HARCOURT. Food Value of Milk and its Products. Ontario Agri- 
cultural College. Toronto (1914). 

KELLY. Medical Milk Commissions and Certified Milk. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, 
No. i (1913). 

LAWSON. Inexpensive Aids in Producing Sanitary Milk. The Mary- 
land Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 181 (1914). 

LEACH. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

MILNER. The Use of Milk as Food. United States Department of 
Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 363 (1911). 

PEARSON. Facts about Milk. United States Agricultural Depart- 
ment, Farmers' Bulletin 42 (1906). 

ROGERS. Bacteria in Milk. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Farmers' Bulletin 490 (1912). 

ROGERS. Direction for the Home Pasteurization of Milk. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, 
Circular 197 (1912). 

ROSENAU. Milk in its Relation to the Public Health. United States 
Public Health Service, Hygienic Laboratory, Bulletin 56. 

ROSENAU. The Milk Question. 

SAVAGE. Milk and the Public Health. 

SHERMAN. Food Products. 

SHERMAN. Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. 



94 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

SHERMAN. Methods of Organic Analysis. 

SWITHINBANK and NEUMANN. Bacteriology of Milk. 

VAN SLYKE. Modern Methods of Testing Milk and Milk Products. 

WING. Milk and its Products. 

WHITAKER, ROGERS, and HUNT. The Care of Milk and its Use in 

the Home. United States Department of Agriculture; Farmers' 

Bulletin 413 (1913). 

Butter 

CLEVENGER. Buttermaking. Ohio State University, Agricultural 

College, Farmers' Reading Course. 
FARRINGTON and MEYERS. A Comparison of Aniline and Anatto 

Butter Colors in Buttermaking. University of Wisconsin, 

Agricultural Experiment Station. 
GUTHRIE. Farm Butter Making. Cornell Reading Courses, vol. 3, 

No. 60, Dairying Series No. 4. 
HASTINGS. The Propagation of Pure Starters for Butter and Cheese 

Making. The University of Wisconsin, Agricultural Experi- 
mental Station. 
PATRICK. Household Tests for the Detection of Oleomargarine and 

Renovated Butter. United States Department of Agriculture, 

Farmers' Bulletin 131. 
RASMUSSEN. A Study of Farm Buttermaking in New Hampshire. 

New Hampshire Agricultural Experiment Station, Durham, 

New Hampshire. 



CHAPTER VII 
CHEESE 

CHEESE is made from milk or cream by coagulating the casein 
with rennet or lactic acid. Ripening ferments, seasonings, and 
coloring matter may be added. Cheese is divided into two 
main types : the hard cheeses such as Cheddar, Edam, Swiss, 
Parmesan, and Roquefort ; and the soft cheeses such as Brie, 
Camembert, Limburg, Neufchatel, Gorgonzola, and Stilton. 
Much of the larger part of the cheese made in this country is of 
the type of the Cheddar cheese and is known as American 
Cheddar cheese. The process of making Cheddar cheese is 
divided into several distinct steps as follows: (i) inspection of 
milk, (2) ripening of milk, (3) addition of color, (4) coagulating 
the milk, (5) cutting the curd, (6) stirring and heating the curd, 
(7) removing whey, (8) cheddaring the curd, (9) milling the 
curd, (10) salting and pressing, (n) ripening or curing the cheese. 
For full description of these steps see Sherman's Food Products, 
pages 89-94. 

The different varieties of whole milk cheese do not differ 
greatly from an average composition of about one third water, 
one third fat, and one fourth protein (the small remainder being 
mainly salt). The fat is in a finely divided state and is chem- 
ically the same as butter fat. The protein is more or less 
digested casein (some albumin). The ripening process changes 
the proteins not only to soluble proteins, but to proteoses, 
peptones, amino acids, and ammonia. The ash is high in cal- 
cium, phosphorus, sulphur, and iron and sodium and chlorine 
from the salting. Cheese is a very concentrated food, so should 

95 



96 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

be eaten in small quantities to avoid danger of irritation of the 
stomach. Cheese may be used interchangeably with meats 
and fish, and the time is coming when it will occupy a more 
prominent place in the dietary than it does at present. For- 
eign cheeses are expensive, but American cheese may be classed 
among the most economical of the high protein foods. 

Eggs with Cheese I 

Ingredients : 

3 hard-cooked eggs few grains cayenne 

i tbsp. flour | c. grated cheese 

i c. milk 4 slices toast 

f tsp. salt 

Method : 

Make a thin white sauce with the flour and milk and seasonings. 
Add the cheese and stir until melted. Chop the whites and add them 
to the sauce. Pour the sauce over the toast, force the yolks through 
a potato ricer or strainer, sprinkle over the toast. 

Eggs with Cheese II 

Ingredients : 

4 eggs i tsp. salt 

i c. or 4 oz. grated cheese few grains cayenne 
i c. stale bread crumbs 

Method : 

Break the eggs into a buttered baking dish or into ramekins and 
cook them in a hot oven until they begin to turn white around the 
edge. Cover with the mixture of crumbs, cheese, and seasonings. 
Brown in a very hot oven. 



Eggs with Cheese III 

Ingredients : 

\ Ib. cheese grated or i tbsp. chopped parsley 

cut into small pieces few grains nutmeg 

8 eggs \ tsp. salt 



CHEESE 97 

Method : 

Beat the eggs slightly, mix them with the other ingredients, cook 
over a very slow fire, stirring constantly, so that the cheese may be 
melted by the time the eggs are cooked. 

Cheese Fondue I 

Ingredients : 

i% c. soft bread crumbs 4 eggs 

1 1 c. grated cheese i c. hot water 

^ tsp. salt 
Method : 

Mix the water, bread crumbs, salt, and cheese; add the yolks 
thoroughly beaten ; into this mixture cut and fold the whites of eggs 
beaten until stiff. Pour the mixture into a buttered baking dish 
and bake 30 minutes in a moderate oven. Serve at once. 

Cheese Fondue II 

Ingredients : 

i^ c. hot milk i tbsp. butter 

i^ c. stale bread crumbs 4 eggs 

i^ c. grated cheese \ tsp. salt 
Method : 

Heat the milk in a double boiler, add the crumbs and allow the 
mixture to stand 15 minutes in hot water. Beat the yolks of eggs 
and mix thoroughly with the milk and crumbs. Add the butter, 
cheese, and salt. Fold in the stiffly "beaten whites, pour into a but- 
tered baking dish and bake 30 minutes in a moderate oven. Serve 
at once. 

Cheese Fondue III 

Ingredients : 

1 1 c. bread crumbs i egg 

1 1 c. warm milk 2 tbsp. butter 

i^ c. cheese 8 crackers (warmed) 

seasoning 
Method : 

Allow the bread to soak in the warm milk 10 minutes. Add the 
butter and cheese to this mixture and when the cheese is melted, add 
H 



LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

the eggs slightly beaten. Add the seasoning and allow the whole 
mixture to cook in a double boiler until thick. Serve at once on 
warmed crackers. 

Cheese Omelet I 

Cheese may be made into omelets in several ways. An omelet may 
be served with thin cheese sauce made in the following proportions : 

i^ tbsp. flour 
^ c. grated cheese 
i c. milk 

This sauce may also be added to omelets in which boiled rice, minced 
meat, or some other nutritious material has been included. 

Cheese Omelet II 
Grated cheese may be sprinkled over an omelet before it is served. 

Cheese Omelet III 

Ingredients: 

yolks of 2 eggs salt and pepper 

2 tbsp. hot water whites of 4 eggs 

i c. grated cheese i tbsp. butter 
Method : 

Beat the yolks until lemon-colored and add the hot water and the 
seasoning. Beat the whites until they are stiff, and add the cheese. 
Cut and fold the two mixtures together. Proceed as for Foamy 
Omelet. 

Welsh Rarebit I 

Ingredients : 

\ Ib. cheese, grated cayenne 

| c. cream or milk i egg 

^ tsp. mustard 2 tsp. butter 

^ tsp. salt dry toast 

Method : 

Put the cheese and milk or cream into a double boiler. Mix the 
mustard, salt, and cayenne. Add the egg and beat well. When the 



CHEESE 



99 



cheese is melted, stir in the mixture of dry ingredients and egg, then 
the butter, and cook until it thickens. Stir constantly. Pour it 
over hot toast. 

Welsh Rarebit II 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. butter \ tsp. mustard 

1 Ib. soft milk cheese, cut few grains cayenne 
in small pieces i c. milk 

| tsp. salt 2 eggs 

Method : 

Put butter in chafing dish and when melted add the cheese and 
seasonings ; as cheese melts, add milk gradually, stirring constantly ; 
then eggs beaten slightly. When eggs are cooked and mixture has 
thickened, serve on crackers or bread toasted on one side, rarebit 
being poured over untoasted side. A rarebit should be smooth and 
of creamy consistency, never stringy. 

Red Bunny 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. butter f c. milk 

2 tbsp. flour f c. stewed and 

| tsp. soda strained tomatoes 

2 eggs i Ib. cheese 

seasonings 
Method : 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and milk. When 
thoroughly cooked add the cheese cut in fine pieces, the eggs slightly 
beaten, and the seasonings. Let this mixture cook until the cheese 
is melted and the eggs cooked. Have ready toasted whole wheat or 
graham bread and when ready to serve add the soda to the hot tomato, 
stir this into the cheese mixture and serve at once. 

Cheese Cakes 

Ingredients: 

i qt. milk few grains nutmeg 

1 junket tablet 3 tbsp. butter 

2 tbsp. sugar 2 tbsp. currants or 
yolks of 2 eggs small raisins 



100 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Warm the milk and add the dissolved junket tablet. Let the 
milk stand until the curd forms, then break up the curd and strain 
off the whey. Add the other ingredients to the curd ; line patty 
tins with pastry, fill them with the mixture, and bake. 

Cheese Souffle with Pastry 

Ingredients: 

2 eggs | c. Swiss cheese cut 
| c. thin cream in small pieces 
salt, cayenne, and i c. grated cheese 

nutmeg 
Method : 

Add the eggs to the cream and beat slightly, then add the cheese 
and seasoning. Bake 15 minutes in a hot oven, in patty tins lined 
with puff paste. 

Cheese Custard 

Ingredients : 

i c. grated cheese yolks of 2 eggs 

\ c. cream or rich milk salt and paprika 

Method : 

Mix the cream and the cheese and heat until the cheese is melted. 
Remove from the fire and add the yolks of the eggs and seasonings. 
Bake in buttered ramekins. Serve with jelly or preserves. 

Scalloped Apples with Cheese 
Substitute riced cream cheese for butter in Scalloped Apples. 

Milk and Cheese Soup 

Ingredients : 

3 c. milk i c. grated cheese 
i \ tbsp. flour salt and paprika 

Thicken the milk with the flour, cooking thoroughly. When ready 
to serve, add the cheese and the seasoning. 



CHEESE 



101 



Vegetable and Cheese Soup 



2 tbsp. butter 
2 tbsp. flour 
if tsp. salt 
i c. scalded milk 



Ingredients : 

2 c. stock 

2 tbsp. finely chopped carrots 

i tbsp. chopped onion 

i blade of mace 

\ c. grated cheese 
Method : 

Cook the vegetables a short time in one half of the butter, add the 
stock and the mace, boiling 15 to 20 minutes. Strain and add the 
milk. Thicken with flour cooked in the remaining butter. Just 
before serving, add the cheese and cook until it is melted. 

Cheese Loaf 

A cheese loaf is a mixture of grated cheese, bread crumbs, and 
chopped legumes or nuts. Vegetable stock is added to make of the 
right consistency to shape into a loaf. Bake in a moderate oven, 
basting frequently with butter and water. Spinach, lettuce, or beet 
tops may be substituted for legumes. 



Bean Loaf 

Ingredients : 

1 Ib. cooked beans 

| Ib. English dairy cheese 

Method (as above). 

Lima Bean Loaf 

Ingredients : 

2 c. cooked lima beans 
| Ib. cream cheese 

Method (as above). 

Nut Loaf 

Ingredients : 

i c. grated cheese 

i c. chopped English walnuts 

i c. bread crumbs 

2 tbsp. chopped onion 
Method (as above). 



bread crumbs 
salt and pepper 



bread crumbs 
3 pimentoes 



i tbsp. butter 
juice of \ lemon 
salt and pepper 



102 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Spinach Loaf 

Ingredients : 

2 qts. spinach (cooked) salt 

i c. grated cheese bread crumbs 

i tbsp. butter 
Method (as above). 

Cheese with Tomato and Corn 

Ingredients : 

i tbsp. butter 2 c. grated cheese 

f c. corn i pimento 

\ c. tomato puree 2 egg yolks 

i tsp. salt \ tsp. paprika 

Method : 

Heat the puree in a double boiler, add the butter, corn, salt, pa- 
prika, and pimento. When the mixture is hot, add the grated cheese; 
and when the cheese is nearly melted, add the egg yolks slightly beaten. 
Allow the total mixture to cook until thick. Serve on toasted bread. 

Italian Rice 

Ingredients : 

1 c. rice i tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. butter \ c. grated cheese 

2 c. tomatoes 4 tbsp. chopped green pepper 

Method : 

Wash rice and cook in boiling water until soft. Melt butter in 
saucepan, add green pepper and sauter 5 minutes ; add cooked rice, 
tomatoes, and salt. Let cook until tomatoes are soft. Add grated 
cheese and continue cooking until cheese is melted. Serve at once. 

Turkish Pilaf 

Ingredients : 

\ c. rice if c. hot water 

i tbsp. butter salt 

i c. boiling water pepper 

i c. tomatoes 



CHEESE 103 

Method : 

Wash rice and brown in the butter. Add water and steam until 
water is absorbed. Add the tomatoes and cook until rice is soft. 
Season. A little grated cheese may be added. 

Cheese Balls 

Ingredients : 

i^ c. grated cheese cayenne 

i tbsp. flour whites 3 eggs 

| tsp. salt cracker dust 

Method : 

Mix cheese with flour and seasonings. Beat whites of eggs until 

stiff and add to the first mixture. Shape in small balls, roll in cracker 

dust, fry in deep fat, and drain on brown paper. Serve with salad 

course. 

Cheese Straws I 

Ingredients : 

i c. grated cheese | tsp. salt 

i c. fresh bread crumbs tsp. pepper 

f c. flour cayenne 

i tbsp. butter i tbsp. milk 

Method : 

Cream the butter, add flour, crumbs, grated cheese, and seasonings ; 

mix thoroughly ; add milk. Roll \ inch thick, cut \ inch wide and 

6 inches long. Bake until brown in a moderate oven. Serve with 

salad course. 

Cheese Straws II 

Roll out plain or puff paste until one fourth of an inch thick. 
Spread one half of it with grated cheese. Fold over the other half 
and roll out again. Repeat the process three or four times. Cut 
into strips and bake. Serve with soup or salad course. 

Cheese Gingerbread I 

Ingredients : 

i c. molasses 2 c. flour 

4 oz. cheese 2 tsp. ginger 

i tsp. soda ^ tsp. salt 

c. water 



104 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method: 

Heat the molasses and the cheese in a double boiler until the cheese 
is melted. Add the soda and stir vigorously. Mix and sift dry 
ingredients and add them to the molasses and cheese alternately with 
the water. Bake 15 minutes in small buttered tins. 



Ingredients : 



Cheese Gingerbread II 



c. molasses 



, i 



c. sugar 
4 oz. cheese 
2 c. flour 



1 tsp. soda 

2 tsp. ginger 
\ tsp. salt 

f c. water 

Method : 

Rub the cheese and the sugar together. Add the molasses. Mix 
and sift the dry ingredients and add them to the cheese mixture alter- 
nately with the water. 



FOOD VALUES 
Macaroni and Cheese 











w 




f s 


f ^ 




MATERIAL 


a 
pj 

cfl 
< 


2 

o 
52 


OTEIN 
rams 


c/l 

$ % 
3 


IHYDRAT 

rams 


en 

flH 

< aj 

S3 







O 

5 =3 

^ U ^ 

a| 


1$ 
$< 

53 t c 
a g 


C/5 

2 

o 5 
c: 




W 
% 





o 

PM 






rt 


H < 

CJ 




:^^ 


C/3 r M 

o uO 

S"S 


hHQ 












< 

u 




$ 


u 


PMO 




Macaroni . 


1 r 

8 C- 


42 


5-55 


37 


29.12 


150 


.0127 


.012 


.144 


.OOO6 


Cheese 


i r 

4 C - 


24 


6.5 


8.6 


.07 


IOO 


.0125 


25 


329 


.OOO3 


Milk . . . 


2 
3 C. 


150 


4.7 


6 


7-5 


IOO 


.015 


239 


303 


.OOO3 


Butter . . 


2 tbsp. 


39 


39 


23-15 




300 


.002 


.009 


.OI2 




Flour . 


2 tbsp. 


16.8 


1.58 


.16 12.58 


50 


.0015 


.004 


.025 


.OOO2 


Bread crumbs 


!c. 


22 


i. 80 


.26 11.59 


50 


.003 


.005 


037 


.O002 


Total, cooked 


2 C. 


323 


20.58 


38.57 


60.86 


750 


.0477 


.519 


.850 


.00l6 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion l . 


ic. 


7I.Q9 


2-73 


5-12 


8.09 


IOO 


.0063 


.069 


113 


.0002 



Also called Standard Portion (S. P.)- 



CHEESE 



I0 5 



Rice with Cheese and Tomatoes 













.B 









en'"' 




MATERIAL 


W 
t/3 


w 

sp 


2 

Bl 

A J*J 


H I 
< 


%Z 

> C 

K rt 


en 

^S 
go 


H 
(fl 

O 


g cfl 
" en 


Jfl tn E 

CL C^ rt 


tn 

| 






W *-" 


O i-i 




^ u 


O j 












w 




o 









H 5 


U 


cj^o 


c <J O 


HHQ 












< 






U 


PH O 














U 




$ 




~" 




Raw rice . 


l c< 


IOO 


7-9 


.29 


78.6 


350 


.0218 


.01 


.19 


.OOI 


Tomatoes 


I C. 


230 


2.77 


.46 


9.24 


50 


.0231 


043 


.125 


.0008 


Butter . . 


i tbsp. 


14 


14 


11.9 




108 


.0109 


.003 


.004 




Cheese 


2 OZ. 


56.7 


16.3 


22.3 




250 


031 


.623 


.82 


.0007 


Salt . . . 


i tsp. 




















Total 


2|C. 


524.1 


27.11 


34-95 


87.84 


758 


.0868 


.679 


I-I39 


.0025 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 1 . 


|c. 


68.1 


3.58 


4-53 


ir. 59 


IOO 


.OI I 2 


.089 


15 


.0003 



REFERENCES 

Cheese 

BUCHANAN. Household Bacteriology. 

CONN. Bacteria in Milk and its Products. 

DOANE. The Digestibility of Cheese. United States Department 

of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, Circular 166 

(1911). 
DOANE and LAWSON. Varieties of Cheese : Descriptions and 

Analysis. United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau 

of Animal Industry, Bulletin 105. 

GIRONCI, M. Italian Recipes, translated and arranged by. 
LANGWORTHY and HUNT. Cheese and its Economical Uses in the 

Diet. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' 

Bulletin 487 (1912). 

LARSON and WHITE. Dairy Technology. 
MARSHALL. Microbiology. 
SHERMAN. Food Products. 



Also called Standard Portion (S. P.)- 



106 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

STOLTZ. Some Dairy By-products : Fermented Milk, Pimento 
Cheese. Ohio State University, Agricultural College, Farmers' 
Reading Course (1913). 

VAN SLYKE and PUBLOW. The Science and Practice of Cheese 
Making. 

WILEY. Foods and their Adulterations. 

WING. Milk and its Products. 



CHAPTER VIII 
EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 

EGGS have been used for food from the earliest times to the 
present day. While those of other fowl are also eaten, hens' 
eggs are so far the most common that they will be understood 
when the term eggs is used - - though most of the statements 
made would apply to the eggs of other fowl also. 

The nutrients of eggs are interesting in their nature and will 
be studied experimentally as described below. For statements 
of the quantitative composition see Leach's Food Inspection 
and Analysis, Chapter IX, and Sherman's Food Products, 
Chapter V. From the place of eggs in nature and from the 
results of nutrition experiments we know that the constituents 
of eggs are adapted to serve as material for the construction of 
muscle, bone, and blood. 

The best egg is naturally one strictly fresh. Newly laid 
eggs may be preserved by cold storage or water glass (sodium 
or potassium silicate). Other methods practiced to some ex- 
tent and more or less successfully are packing the eggs in saw- 
dust, salt, or lime, or coating the shell with lard, paraffin, or wax. 
Cold storage and the use of water glass are the best methods. 
Other methods are less effective and are apt to impart a dis- 
agreeable flavor. 

EXPERIMENTS 

114. Determine: a. about how many unbroken eggs there are in 
a pound. 

b. how many eggs minus the shell there are in a pound, 

107 



108 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

c. how many tablespoonfuls in i whole egg : 

1. unbeaten. 

2. beaten. 

d. how many tablespoonfuls in the beaten yolk and white, 
respectively. 

115. - - Examine with a hand lens a portion of egg shell. Note 
its porous condition. Examine an egg shell which has been im- 
mersed in water glass. How does this differ from that first examined ? 
Explain the difference. What is water glass? How does water 
glass preserve eggs? 

116. - - Various other preservatives are used to keep eggs. Ex- 
plain the use of the following : 

lime lard 

paraffin sawdust 

vaseline cold storage 

Cooking of Eggs. Temperature and Time 

117. - - For this experiment select saucepans of uniform size, shape, 
and material, using i pint of water in each case. 

a. boil egg rapidly for i minute \ have the water boiling 

b. boil egg rapidly for 3 minutes/ when the egg is immersed. 

c. put egg in water at 80 C., cover and let stand for 
10 minutes. 

d. put egg in cold water and bring to the boiling point. 

e. boil an egg for 10 minutes. 
/. boil an egg for 20 minutes. 

g. put an egg in water at 80 C., cover and allow to stand 
for 45 minutes. 

h. put an egg in water at boiling point, cover and allow 
to stand 45 minutes. 

118. - - Arrange a repetition of the above experiment so that eggs 
will be ready to remove from shell at the same time. Remove 
egg from shell. Examine and compare yolks and whites as to tex- 
ture, ease of removing from shell, firmness of white, toughness of 
white. 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 109 

119. - - Remove eggs from shell and cook as follows, using i pt. of 
water in each instance. Use first an iron frying pan, then an agate 
or enamel pan. Compare the results. 

a. Poach egg in hot water until yolk is coated. (Save the 
water.) 

b. Repeat, using i tsp. salt in water. 

c. Repeat, using i tsp. vinegar in water. 

d. Turn egg into boiling water, remove from bunsen burner, 
cover and let stand 2 minutes. 

e. Compare each result as to texture, .firmness of yolk, 
taste. Save the water in each instance for the next experiment. 

120. - - Examine the water used in Expt. 119, a, with the following 

tests : 

Biuret, page 85 

Xanthoproteic, page 85 

Iodine, page 13 

Fehling-Benedict solution, page 13 

Filter a little of the water used in 119 and heat filtrate. 
Conclusions ? 

121. - - Beat an egg white until stiff, fold in 3 tbsp. granulated 
sugar. Drop by spoonfuls on to a greased paper and bake in a slow 
oven until brown. Try to remove \ of the meringue at once. Allow 
the remainder to stand until cold. Remove. Compare with those 
removed while warm. Explain the difference. 



Soft-cooked Egg 

Ingredients : 

i egg i c. boiling water 

Method : 

Place boiling water in a saucepan. Put unbroken egg carefully 
in saucepan, cover pan and let stand 5 minutes. 

Hard-cooked Egg 
Prepare as soft-cooked, but allow egg to remain in water 45 minutes. 



110 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Coddled Egg 

Butter a ramekin. Break an egg carefully into a saucer and slip 
into the ramekin. Place in a pan of boiling water and cook until 
the white is firm. 

Shirred or Baked Egg 

Prepare as coddled egg. Cook in a pan of water in the oven. 
Ramekins may be lined with seasoned buttered crumbs and egg 
covered with the crumbs. 

Poached Egg 

Rub the bottom of an omelet pan lightly with butter. Fill pan 
three fourths full of boiling water. Break an egg into a saucer and 
slip into the boiling water. Lower flame so the water will not boil, 
and allow egg to remain in the water 3-10 minutes. If the water does 
not cover the yolk, dip water over it carefully with a spoon until a film 
forms over yolk. Remove with a skimmer to a slice of buttered 
toast and garnish with parsley. 

Scrambled Eggs 

Ingredients : 

5 eggs I tsp. pepper 

\ c. milk I tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. butter 
Method : 

Beat eggs slightly, add seasonings and milk. Heat omelet pan, 
put in butter, and when melted pour in the mixture. Cook until 
creamy, stirring and scraping from the bottom of the pan. 

Omelets 

For omelets select large eggs. Use i tbsp. of liquid and \ tsp. of 
salt for each egg. Never try to make an omelet using more than 4 
eggs, as mixture will brown before being cooked through. Keep an 
omelet pan especially for omelets and see that it is kept clean and 
smooth. 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES III 

Foamy Omelet 

Ingredients : 

2 eggs 2 tbsp. milk or water 

j tsp. salt cayenne or white pepper 

i tsp. butter 

Method: 

Beat yolks of eggs until light and creamy; add seasonings and milk. 
Beat the whites until stiff, but not dry; cut into yolks. Heat an 
omelet pan, rub it with butter, pour in the mixture and spread it 
evenly on the pan. Cook over low flame. When set, put in hot 
oven for a few minutes to dry on top. Fold and serve at once. 



French Omelet 

4 eggs I tsp. pepper 

4 tbsp. milk \ tsp. salt 

2 tsp. butter 

Method : 

Beat eggs slightly, enough to blend yolks and whites. Add milk 
and seasonings. Put butter in hot omelet pan ; when melted, pour 
in mixture and place over a low flame. As it cooks draw the edges 
toward the center with a knife until the whole is of a creamy con- 
sistency. Place on hotter part of range that it may brown quickly. 
Fold and turn on hot platter. 

Additions: 

Grated cheese, jelly, jam, chopped meats, peas, or parsley placed 
in omelet before folding, or a highly seasoned tomato sauce may be 
served around it. 

Egg-in-Nest 

Arrange stiffly beaten white of an egg on a slice of buttered toast. 
Make a depression in the center and drop in the unbeaten yolk. 
Sprinkle with salt. Brown in a moderate oven. 



112 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Scrambled Eggs with Tomato Sauce 

Ingredients : 

6 eggs 4 tbsp. butter 

if c. tomatoes i slice onion 

2 tbsp. sugar \ tsp. salt 

| tsp. pepper 
Method : 

Simmer tomatoes and sugar five minutes ; brown butter and onion 
three minutes ; remove onion and add tomatoes, seasonings, and eggs 
slightly beaten. Cook as scrambled eggs. 

Eggs a la Goldenrod 

Ingredients : 

3 hard-cooked eggs \ tsp. salt 

i tbsp. butter f tsp. pepper 

i tbsp. flour 5 slices toast 

i c. milk parsley 

Method : 

Make a thin white sauce with butter, flour, milk, and seasonings. 
Remove yolks from hard-cooked eggs. Chop whites finely and add 
to the sauce. Cut four slices of toast in halves lengthwise ; arrange 
on platter, and pour over the sauce. Force the yolks through a 
potato ricer or strainer, and sprinkle them over the top. Garnish 
with parsley and remaining toast cut in points. 

' Liquid Glass " for Preserving Eggs 

Ingredients : 

i qt. ' liquid glass ' (a concentrated commercial solution of 

sodium silicate). 
9 qts. boiled and cooled water. 

Method : 

Mix the liquid glass and boiled water in a clean crock or stone jar. 
Carefully wipe strictly fresh eggs and with a spoon or other con- 
venient utensil place the eggs in the crock. The crock may be 
filled with eggs to the point of the liquid just covering the top layer. 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 



Cover the crock with tin cover or stone cover. It does not need to 
be air-tight. When removing eggs from the crock, do so with a spoon. 
Wash them carefully and, if they are to be boiled, prick the shell. 
The pores of the shell are filled with the liquid glass and as the air 
and water within the shell expand with the heat, the shell is likely to 
explode and thus spoil the egg as a " hard-cooked " product. 



FOOD VALUE 
Scrambled Egg 



MATERIAL 


MEASURE 


WEIGHT 
Grams 


PROTEIN 
Grams 


en 


CARBOHYDRATE 
Grams 


TOTAL 
CALORIES 


H 
CO 

O 
CJ 

$ 


O 

S ^J t/3 

hH C 

CJ 


PHOSPHORUS 
(Calc. as P 2 O 6 ) 
Grams 


t/> 

z g 

s| 


E 


I 


f 


603 


A 72 




67 


o ? 66 






OOI 2 


Milk 


if tbsp. 


22 


.72 


t 1 / * 

.88 


i.og 


u / 

I C 


OO2 2 


.0^4 


04 S 


OOOI 


Buttej .... 
Pepper .... 


| tbsp. 


7.8 


.07 


6.63 




J O 

60 


.0045 


.0018 


.0024 




Total, cooked . 
loo-Calorie Portion 1 


3 r. 
8 C. 

j C. 


61.2 
42.8 


6.82 
4-77 


12.22 

8-55 


1.09 
.76 


142 

IOO 


0433 
03 


.0748 
.0523 


.2044 
143 


.0013 
.OOO8 



SOUFFLES 

Souffles are combinations of cooked or uncooked mixtures and 
stiffly beaten whites of eggs baked in a moderate oven. They should 
be served immediately. A sauce improves fruit souffles. 

Whips are the same combinations unbaked and piled lightly in 
glasses for serving. 

Essentials for Successful Souffles 
Good eggs. 

Stiffly beaten whites. 

Buttered molds, - - buttered and sugared for fruit souffles. 

Very moderate oven. 

1 Also called Standard Portion (S. P.). 



114 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Souffles 

Varieties : 

I. Made with a white sauce : 

a. Meat, fish, rice, cheese. 

b. Custard. 

II. Made without a white sauce : 

a. Vegetable. 

b. Fruit. 

Fruit Souffle 

Ingredients : 

f c. pulp sweetened 3 egg whites 

salt 
Method : 

Fresh, dried, or canned fruit may be used. Drain sirup from 
canned fruit. Press pulp through a strainer and add to the stiffly 
beaten whites. Use a Dover beater and continue beating until very 
light. Place in buttered, sugared molds in pan of w T arm water. 
Bake in a moderate oven until firm. 

Custard Souffle 

Ingredients : 

3 tbsp. butter i c. scalded milk 

| c. flour 4 eggs 

I c. sugar i tsp. vanilla 

Method : 

Melt butter, add flour, and gradually hot milk ; when well thick- 
ened pour on yolks of eggs beaten until thick and lemon-colored, and 
mixed with sugar ; cool, and cut and fold in whites of eggs beaten 
stiff and dry. Turn into buttered pudding dish, place in a pan of 
warm water, and bake in a moderate oven until firm. 

Lemon Souffle 

Ingredients : 

Yolks 4 eggs i c. sugar 

Grated rind and juice i lemon whites 4 eggs 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 115 

Method : 

Beat yolks until thick and lemon-colored, add sugar gradually 
and continue beating, add the lemon rind and juice. Cut and fold 
in whites of eggs beaten until dry. Bake as Custard Souffle. 

Vegetable Souffle 

Wash, peel, and mash vegetables as in preparing mashed potatoes. 
Moisten with milk or cream. Fold in the beaten yolks and stiffly 
beaten whites. Bake as Custard Souffle. 

Corn and Cheese Souffle 

Ingredients : 

i tbsp. butter i c. chopped corn 

1 tbsp. chopped green pepper i c. grated cheese 
| c. flour 3 eggs 

2 c. milk \ tsp. salt 

Method : 

Melt the butter and heat the pepper in it for 2 minutes. Add 
the flour, and stir the milk in slowly. When the white sauce is thick- 
ened, add the corn, cheese, yolks of eggs, and seasonings. Cut and 
fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Bake as Custard Souffle. 

Meat Souffle 

Ingredients : 

1 c. thick white sauce |-i c. cooked meat, poultry, 
1-3 eggs or fish 

Method : 

Mix meat with warm sauce. Season highly. Cool and fold in 
stiffly beaten yolks and stiffly beaten whites. Bake as Custard 
Souffle. 

Cheese Souffle 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. butter few grains cayenne 

3 tbsp. flour | c. grated Old English or 
\ c. scalded milk Young America cheese 

\ tsp. salt yolks 3 eggs 

whites 3 eggs 



Il6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Melt butter, add flour, and, when well mixed, add scalded milk 
gradually. Then add salt, cayenne, and cheese. Remove from 
fire. Add yolks of eggs beaten until lemon-colored. Cool mixture 
and cut and fold in whites of eggs beaten until stiff and dry. Bake 
as Custard Souffle. 

EXPERIMENTS WITH DEEP FAT FRYING 

122. - -a. Prepare potato chips by the following methods : 

Raw potato sliced very thin. 

Parboil potato and slice very thin. 

Raw potato soaked in ice water 20 minutes. 

Raw potato soaked in salt solution (2 tsp. salt to 2 c. 

ice water) 20 minutes. 

In each case dry the potato carefully before immersing in the fat 
or oil. 

b. Prepare deep fat, using the following fats and oils : 

lard cottonseed oil 

crisco peanut oil 

olive oil corn oil 

Arrange utensils and fats and oils so that the heating may begin at 
the same time. Note initial temperatures and length of time re- 
quired for the medium to reach the proper temperatures for deep fat 
frying. Test constantly with a slice of raw unsoaked potato, and 
when each has reached the required temperature fry samples of the 
potato prepared in a separately in each medium. Note the tem- 
peratures of each fat or oil, the length of time required for frying 
each potato, and the character of the product. 

123. - - If a thermometer of sufficient range is available, deter- 
mine the temperature at which each of the above fats shows 
evidence of being decomposed by heat. What is the evidence in 
each case ? 

In a recent study by Blunt and Feeney (Journal of Home Eco- 
nomics, Vol. VII, page 535) the temperatures at which certain fats 
begin to give off visible fumes are reported as follows : 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 117 

Cottonseed oil (Wesson) 233 C. 

Snowdrift 232 C. 

Crisco 231 C. 

Leaf lard . 221 C. 

Butter fat . . ; 208 C. 

Leaf lard (heated 5 hours) 207 C. 

Bulk lard 194 C. 

A much-used lard 190 C. 

Olive oil 175 C. 

Peanut oil I 162 C. 

Peanut oil II 149 C. 

Coconut oil 136 C. 

How do your results compare with these? Where results differ, 
is the difference attributable to differing conditions of experimenta- 
tion or to variation in the material tested ? 

124. - - a. Prepare doughnuts, using the recipe in the book. Roll 
them to uniform thickness and cut with the same cutter. 

b. Arrange the following fats and oils in utensils of uniform 
size and shape and begin heating at the same time : 

Fats: 

lard olive oil 

| lard, | crisco peanut oil 

crisco corn oil 

beef drippings mutton drippings 

c. Note the initial temperatures of each fat or oil, and test- 
ing constantly with the doughnut mixture, find the proper temper- 
ature for each medium for an uncooked flour mixture. 

d. Fry doughnuts in each fat and oil. Note the flavor of 
the product, the amount of fat absorbed, the color. Allow samples 
of each cooked doughnut to remain in a tin box and note the rapidity 
with which each becomes dry and hard. 

125. a. Prepare rice croquettes. Shape croquettes, using ap- 
proximately the same amount of mixture in each croquette, measur- 
ing in level tablespoons. Fry croquettes in each of the above fats 
and oils immediately after using them for doughnuts. Note the 



Il8 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

flavor of the croquettes, the absorption of odor of doughnuts, the 
color, crispness of the crust. 

b. Summarize your conclusions as to the appropriateness 
of each fat or oil as a frying medium. 

126. Using the optimum temperatures for frying for each fat 
or oil, test the frying of a piece of bread. Note the number of seconds 
required by each fat to brown the bread. Does it prove the usual 
statement, " 40 seconds required for browning a piece of bread is 
sufficient for browning a cooked mixture - - as croquettes ; 60 sec- 
onds 1 is required for cooking and browning an uncooked mixture " ? 

127. - - Cut up in small pieces, weigh, and sauter equal quantities of 
boiled potato in unit quantities of each of the fats and oils. Weigh 
again and determine which fat is most easily absorbed by the potato. 

128. - - From your correlated reading and experiments what do you 
conclude as to the wholesomeness of deep fat frying or sauteing of 
food as a method of cooking? 

Croquettes 

Croquettes are made with a base of meat, fish, egg, cheese, nuts, 
rice, beans, or other vegetables. These need to be combined with 
either white sauce, egg, starchy vegetables as potato, rice, cereals, 
or crumbs. 

The crumbs: 

Use crumbs from outside of loaf for first coating, use crumbs from 
inside of loaf for second coating. 
Season crumbs before using. 
Cracker crumbs are not desirable as they give a " pasty " crust. 

The egg: 

The whole egg is preferable. Add water equal to volume of egg. 
Beat slightly. 

If white alone is used, add to each white \ tbsp. oil, \ tbsp. water. 
If yolk is used alone, add \ tbsp. cold water to each yolk. 

NOTE : The white alone gives a tough crust ; the yolk gives a tender crust. 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 1 19 

The fat for frying : 

The fat should be unburned lard, or crisco, free from particles of 
previous frying. 

Use a flat-bottom frying kettle, keep an iron gas spreader over the 
gas jet, and do not allow fat to bubble to rim of kettle. 

Test fat, timing the* browning of a piece of bread. Fry croquettes 
made with previously cooked mixtures about 40 seconds. Fry 
croquettes made with uncooked mixture 60 seconds. 

Drain croquettes on absorbent brown paper. Croquettes may be 
reheated in the oven or double boiler. 



Rice Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

% c. rice ^ tsp. salt 

2-3 tbsp. milk TS tsp. pepper 

1 egg cayenne 

2 tbsp. butter 2 tbsp. chopped parsley 

Method : 

Boil rice. Add milk, butter, seasonings, and beaten egg. Cook 
in a double boiler and cool. Form into balls, roll in sifted crumbs, 
shape, dip in egg, and reshape. Chill. Fry in deep fat. 



Potato Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

2 c. hot riced potatoes cayenne 

2 tbsp. butter few drops onion juice 

\ tsp. salt yolk i egg 

| tsp. pepper i tsp. finely chopped parsley 

\ tsp. celery salt milk if necessary 

Method : 



Add ingredients in order given to the potatoes. 
Proceed as for Rice Croquettes. 



120 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Cheese Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

3 tbsp. butter i c. cheese cut in small cubes 

I c. flour \ c. grated Parmesan cheese 

| c. milk. \ tsp. salt 

yolks 2 eggs paprika 

Method : 

Make a white sauce of flour, butter, seasonings, and milk. Add 
beaten yolks and cheese. Cool. Proceed as for Rice Croquettes. 



Nut and Raisin Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

i c. stale bread crumbs 2 egg yolks 

\ c. milk salt 

i c. chopped nut meats pepper 

i c. chopped raisins 

Method : 

Soak bread in milk until soft. Add nuts, seasonings, beaten yolks, 
and raisins. Proceed as for Rice Croquettes. 



Chicken Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

3^ c. chopped chicken i tbsp. parsley 

onion juice 2 tsp. lemon juice 

Make i pt. of very thick cream sauce : 

i pt. cream and milk \\ tsp. salt 

\ c. butter \ tsp. white pepper 

\ c. flour i tsp. celery salt 

cayenne 

Method : 

Add the sauce to the chopped chicken and seasonings. Cool. 
Proceed as for Rice Croquettes. 



EGGS, SOUFFLES, AND CROQUETTES 12 1 

Beef and Rice Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

1 c. chopped beef | tsp. pepper 
^ c. rice (cooked) cayenne 

^ tsp. salt tomato sauce 

Method : 

Mix beef and rice, add salt, pepper, and cayenne. Cool. Proceed 
as for Rice Croquettes. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Veal or Lamb Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

2 c. chopped cold cooked veal cayenne 

\ tsp. salt few drops onion juice 

| tsp. pepper yolk i egg 

i c. thick white sauce or stock 

Method : 

Mix ingredients in order given. Cool. Proceed as for Rice 
Croquettes. 

SCORE CARD 

Croquettes 

General appearance 30 

Uniformity (10) 

Color (10) 

Size and shape (10) 

Mixture <> . 50 

Consistency (40) 

Flavor (10) 

Crust 20 

Freedom from excessive fat (10) 
Thickness (5) 

Tenderness (5) 

100 



122 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

REFERENCES 
Eggs 

ATWATER and BRYANT. Composition of American Food Materials. 
United States Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment 
Stations, Bulletin 28. 

BARROWS. Eggs : Facts and Fancies Compiled about Them. 

Demonstrations. Eggs and Milk. Iowa State College of Agri- 
culture, Extension Department, Short Course Class Notes, No. 4. 

LANGWORTHY. Eggs and their Uses as Food. United States De- 
partment of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 128. 

LEACH. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

MAURER. Bacteriological Studies on Eggs. Kansas State Agri- 
cultural College Experiment Station, Bulletin 180 (1911). 

REMINGTON. A Study of Commercial Eggs. United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Bulletin 51 (1914). 

SHERMAN. Food Products. 

THOMPSON. Studies in Egg Marketing. University of Minnesota, 
Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 132 (1913). 

TIBBLES. Foods : Their Origin, Composition and Manufacture. 

WILEY. Foods and their Adulteration. 

Cooking in Fats 

BLUNT and FEENEY. The Smoking Temperatures of Edible Fats. 
Journal of Home Economics, vol. VII, page 535 (December, 



CHAPTER IX 
MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 

MEATS are derived from the flesh of domestic and wild ani- 
mals chiefly if not exclusively of herbivorous habits, and from 
fowls. The most important kinds are beef (ox), veal (calf), 
mutton (sheep), lamb (young sheep), pork (pig), ham and 
bacon (pig) , venison (deer) . Poultry includes chickens, turkeys, 
ducks and geese, guinea hens, and game birds. 

The quality of meat is dependent on the condition of the 
animal from which it is derived. Of all the foods, meat is the 
one most subject to conditions rendering it unwholesome or even 
dangerous. Certain diseases of animals are communicable to 
man through eating of the flesh, and there is danger that through 
lack of cleanliness in slaughterhouses and exposure to dust 
and flies, meat may be infected with Bacillus enteritidis which 
produces poisonous products which are not destroyed by cook- 
ing and which are now considered to be the commonest cause 
of food poisoning - - so-called " ptomaine ' poisoning. 

The United States Department of Agriculture, under the 
meat inspection law of 1906, provides for the inspection of 
establishments which send products into foreign or interstate 
commerce. There are, however, many establishments which 
do business entirely within one state and they may or may not 
have local inspection. For the need of state inspection see 
United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal 
Industry, Circular 154 (1908). 

In meat as it is purchased we have bone, fat, and the flesh, 
consisting of the muscle of the animal with its connective tissue. 

123 



124 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

The color of the meat should be clear and bright, not purplish. 
There should be very little odor, and the meat should be firm 
and elastic to the touch. 

Meat is valuable chiefly for its protein, fat, and ash constit- 
uents. The protoplasm of the muscle cells consists mainly 
of proteins partially dissolved in 3 to 4 times their weight of 
water. The fat is deposited partly in the cells and partly in 
the connective tissue between the cells, where it forms in layers. 
Fat does not alter the composition of the actual protoplasm 
since it neither dissolves in nor absorbs water. When an ani- 
mal is killed, the muscular protoplasm coagulates (rigor mortis), 
but without essential change in the amount or distribution of 
moisture, protein, or fat. Muscle protein and gelatin differ 
conspicuously in their content of amino acids. It is now known 
that the inadequacy of gelatin alone as protein food is due to 
the absence of certain amino-acid radicles, particularly trypto- 
phan and tyrosin. Special interest attaches to the ' extrac- 
tives ' of meat, to which its flavor is largely due, and to the 
purins which give rise to uric acid in the body. Among the 
extractives creatin is most conspicuous. The purins exist 
" free ' (as in the form of hypoxanthin, adenin, guanin) and 
" bound ' as constituents of the nucleoproteins. 

Cold storage, drying, canning, and the application of preserv- 
ative substances are the principal means of preserving meats. 
Salt, sugar, vinegar, and wood smoke are condimental as well 
as preservative in their properties, and there is no restriction 
upon their use. Saltpeter maintains the red color of meat and 
preserves it. Boric acid and borax, which when used are 
employed purely for their preservative effect, and sulphites 
are not permitted under the present United States meat in- 
spection law. 

For fuller discussion of composition, nutritive value, preser- 
vation and inspection of meat, read Sherman's Food Prod- 
ucts, Chapters VI and VII. 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 125 

MEAT EXPERIMENTS 

129. Examine a shin of beef for fat, connective tissue, tendons, 
ligaments, blood vessels (veins and arteries), bone tissue, and muscles. 

Prepare round steak for the following experiments by grinding 
through meat grinder. 

130. a. Mix 2 tbsp. meat and i c. cold water. Let stand i hour. 

b. Mix 2 tbsp. meat and i c. cold water and \ tsp. salt. 
Let stand i hour. 

c. Mix 2 tbsp. meat and i c. cold water and i tbsp. vine- 
gar. Let stand i hour. 

d. Mix 2 tbsp. meat and i c. warm water and \ tsp. salt. 
Let stand i hour. 

e. Mix 2 tbsp. meat and i c. boiling water. Boil i minute, 
and let stand i hour. Compare results. In which instances is most 
color and flavor extracted ? Explain these phenomena. 

131. Remove as much muscle and fat as possible from a shoulder 
of veal. Crack the bone in several places. Place in cold water to 
cover, adding \ tsp. salt to each pint of water and let simmer for 6 
hours. Remove the bone, strain the liquid through a wet cheesecloth, 
and put in a cold place to cool. Let the stock remain in ice box 
overnight and then observe change in consistency. (Keep for Expt. 
132.) 

a. Note the layer of fat on surface covering the jelly under- 
neath. Could the small amount of fatty tissue left on the bone 
have furnished enough fat to form such a layer ? 

b. What was the source of the fat? 

132. To a small portion of the jelly from Expt. 131 apply the 
following tests : 

a. Biuret, page 85. 

b. Xanthoproteic, page 85. 

c. Fehling-Benedict, page 13. 

d. Iodine, page 13. 



126 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

133. - - Note the color and flavor of the jelly. Why is it lighter 
colored and lacking in flavor? What kind of meat is added to soup 
stock for color and flavor? Why? 

134. - - Rub a piece of tough round steak with a small amount of 
baking soda. Allow it to stand ^ hour and then pan-broil. Repeat, 
using vinegar or lemon juice. Broil. Compare as to flavor, texture, 
ease of cutting with silver knife, and mastication. How do you 
account for the differences observed ? 

135. - -Again prepare pieces of steak, A and B, as in Expt. 134. 
Put A in a hot frying pan, B in a cold frying pan. Turn each as soon 
as seared on one side. Compare as to texture, flavor, and amount 
of gravy left in pan. 

Conclusions. 

136. - - Cut bacon into slices A, B, and C 

A cut very thin ] 

B cut moderately thin > weigh each 

C cut thick 

Fry each to the following stages: rare, medium, and crisp. Weigh 
the amount of fat left in pan in each case. How much is lost ? 

137. - - Use slices cut as in A, B, C. Broil and compare with 
products in Expt. 136. Which method of preparing bacon is best? 
Why? 

138. - -a. Prepare a meat stew in both the pressure and fireless 
cooker. 

b. Compare the thoroughness of cooking, length of time 
required, flavor. 

c. Compute the saving in time, labor, and fuel. Note the 
temperature of each cooker. 

d. What are the advantages of the pressure and the fireless 
cookers over the coal or gas stove? 




J&jf. 



1. Neck. 

2. Chuck. 

3. Ribs. 

4. Shoulder clod. 

5. JFore shank. 

6. Brisket. 

7. Cross ribs. 

8. Plate. 

9. Navel. 

10. Loin. 

11. Flank. 

12. Rump. 

13. Round. 

14. Second cut round. 

15. Hind shank. 




FIGURE i. Cuts of Beef (U. S. Dept. Agriculture). 

127 



128 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 




FIGURE 2. Side of Beef (U. S. Dept. Agriculture). 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 



129 





9 



(& a 



i* 



a 

<L> 

Q 

C/5 



"rt 



.5 -2 2 t 8 
$J o" ,3 Is 2 ^ 

. *^ ^* *^ . "o 

CO t- 00 6> O f 

3 

u 



ps.-a 

j-S-l-s 

! *f? ^ GO 

** 8 s 'P 3 

S^^ g 2 

Q CO P4 W 



o 



t-i e 



ia 



K 



130 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 





- = X . 

1 J 1 1 -s a 

> -F j 5 o <D 
^5 O M PH ^ i-J 



CO 







CJ 

- 



u 



o 

t-H 

- 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 




132 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

SOUPS 

Soups may be divided into two main classes, meat soups and 
vegetable soups. Those made from meat obtain their flavor 
from extractives which are stimulating, but have almost no food 
value. Vegetable soups usually have a higher nutritive value, 
since the pulp of vegetables used as flavoring or thickening is 
commonly served as a part of the soup. 

Stock Soups 

Stock soups are made from beef, veal, mutton, fish, or poultry 
separately or in combination. Left-overs, meats or vegetables, may 
be used alone or with fresh meats to make stock. They often im- 
prove stock by imparting delicious new flavors. 

Bouillon, lean beef; delicately seasoned, usually cleared. 
Consomme, two or three kinds of meat ; highly seasoned, al- 
ways cleared. 
Brown stock, beef; highly seasoned with vegetables, spices, and 

herbs. 

White stock, veal or chicken ; delicately seasoned. 
Old-fashioned stock, thickened with vegetables. Some fat re- 
mains in this soup. 

Soup Accompaniments 

Flour pastes, plain and fancy Croutons 

Vegetables, cut in plain and fancy shapes Cooked cereals 

Fritter batter, forced through a strainer and fried Royal custard 

Other Uses for Soup Stock 

Gravies Sauces 

Seasoning for meats Aspic jelly 

Preparation of combination soups as Creole, Mongole 

Meat left from soup making is tasteless, but contains about as 
much protein as fresh meat. It may be seasoned, mixed with a sauce 
and made into the following " Left-over " dishes : 



\ c. each cut in dice 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 133 

Croquettes Hash Creamed on toast 

Minced on toast Souffle Scalloped 

Meat pie Cottage pie Casserole with vegetables 

Warmed in gravy Salad or rice 

Brown Soup Stock 

Ingredients : 

6 Ibs. shin of beef (f lean 3 sprigs thyme 

meat, ^ bone and fat) 2 sprigs parsley 

3 qts. cold water carrot 

\ tsp. peppercorns turnip 

6 cloves onion 

\ bay leaf celery . 

i sprig marjoram 
Method : 

Wipe beef and cut the lean meat in inch cubes. Brown ^ of meat 
in marrow from bone. Add the water to the remaining f meat, the 
bone and fat, and let stand 30 minutes. Add browned meat and heat 
gradually to boiling point. Remove scum as it rises. Cover and 
simmer 6 hours. Add vegetables and seasonings. Simmer i| 
hours longer ; strain and cool as quickly as possible. 

i 

To Clear Soup Stock 

Method : 

Remove fat from stock while cold. Allow white and shell of i 
egg to i qt. stock. Beat white slightly, break shell in small pieces 
and add to stock. Boil 2 minutes. Remove scum and strain 
through double thickness of cheesecloth. If more seasonings are 
necessary, add as soon as stock has lost its jelly-like consistency. 

Chicken Soup 

Ingredients : 

1 1 qts. chicken stock 2 tbsp. rice 

\ bay leaf 2 tbsp. noodles 

\ tsp. peppercorns 2 tbsp. vermicelli 

Method : 

Simmer stock and seasonings \ hour. Strain. Add the rice and 
flour pastes, previously cooked in 2 c. boiling water in a double boiler. 



134 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Vegetable Soup 

Ingredients : 

i c. cubed carrots 3 qts. water 

i c. cubed turnips ^ c. butter 

1 c. cubed celery 2 tbsp. flour 

2 c. cubed potatoes i tbsp. parsley 
i c. chopped onions i tbsp. salt 

| tsp. pepper 
Method : 

Cook all the vegetables except potato and onion in 6 tbsp. of butter 
10 minutes. Add the potato and cook 2 minutes, the onion and 
water and cook ^ hour. Mix 2 tbsp. of butter with the flour and 
add the first mixture slowly and the seasonings. Cook f hour longer 
and add the parsley. 

Mongole Soup 

Ingredients : 

i qt. brown stock 10 allspice berries 

i qt. tomatoes 6 cloves 

i onion sliced | bay leaf 

i sprig parsley I tsp. celery salt 

I c. butter tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 

I c. flour \ tbsp. vinegar 

Method : 

Cook stock, tomatoes, onion, parsley, spices for 30 minutes. Brown 
butter, add flour and, gradually, the above mixture. Bring to the 
boiling point. Strain, add Worcestershire sauce and vinegar. 



Creole Soup 

Ingredients : 

i qt. brown stock salt 

1 pt. tomatoes pepper 
3 tbsp. chopped green peppers cayenne 

2 tbsp. chopped onion 2 tbsp. grated horseradish 
\ c. butter i tsp. vinegar 

\ c. flour \ c. macaroni rings 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 135 

Method : 

Cook pepper and onion in butter 5 minutes. Add flour, stock, 
tomatoes. Simmer 15 minutes. Strain, rub through a sieve and sea-, 
son highly with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Just before serving, add 
horseradish, vinegar, and macaroni previously cooked and cut in rings. 

MEATS 

TENDER CUTS 
Roasting 

Wipe, trim, tie, or skewer meat into shape. Place on a rack in a 
pan and place pieces of fat from the meat over it. Rub meat over 
with salt and dredge meat and pan with flour. 

Place in the hottest part of oven to sear the outside and brown the 
flour ; then remove to a lower shelf and reduce the temperature ; 
baste meat every ten minutes until done, unless a covered roaster is 
used. 

Time-table for Roasting 

Beef --rare 8-10 minutes per Ib. 

Mutton 15 minutes per Ib. 

Veal 20 minutes per Ib. 

Pork 30 minutes per Ib. 

Chicken until joints separate easily 

Turkey- - 10 Ibs 3 hours 

Fillet of Beef I 

The tenderloin of beef is known as the fillet. 

Trim into shape a fillet of beef weighing about four pounds, re- 
moving tendinous portions and veins. Tie and skewer this into a 
pear-shaped piece. Lard the top, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and 
dredge with flour. Cover the bottom of a small dripping pan with 
cubes of salt pork. Set a trivet on top of pork, and place the meat 
on the trivet ; allow the meat to roast from 20-30 minutes in hot 
oven, basting it frequently. 

Serve with gravy made from fat in pan, flour, and hot water. 



136 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Fillet of Beef II 

Ingredients : 

i fillet of beef i stalk of celery 

i small onion 4 cloves 

i small carrot 2 bay leaves 

Method : 

Remove all the membranes and excess of fat from the fillet. Cut 
strips of larding pork 3 inches long, | inch wide, and inch thick. 
Chill the strips in ice water. Lard the upper side of the fillet, slice 
the onion, carrot, and celery and place them with the cloves and bay 
leaves in the bottom of the pan. Place the fillet on the vegetables, 
season with salt and pepper, and cover with pieces of butter. Dis- 
solve i tsp. salt in \ c. boiling water and pour into the pan. Roast 
in a hot oven for 30 minutes. Baste frequently. Serve with mush- 
room sauce, if desired. 

Stuffed Flank Steak or " Mock Duck " 
Ingredients : 

1 flank or round steak suet 

dressing (see below) 
Method : 

Wipe meat, spread with dressing, roil and tie, or skewer. Place 
suet on top and roast i hour, or until tender. 

Dressing for Flank Steak 

Ingredients : 

2 c. bread crumbs i tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. butter | tsp. pepper 

1 tbsp. parsley | tsp. poultry seasoning 

juice of | onion if desired 

Brown Gravy 

Ingredients : 

2 c. boiling water or | milk \ c. flour 
salt j c. fat 

pepper 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 137 

Method : 

Remove all but | c. of the fat from roasting pan. Place over fire, 
add flour and stir until well browned, then add water slowly ; boil 
5 minutes. Season and strain. 



Broiling 

Remove extra fat from meat. Grease the broiler with some of the 
fat. Place broiler close to flame to sear meat, then remove to lower 
part of broiling oven to finish cooking, turning often. Season with 
butter, salt, and pepper. 

Pan-Broiling 

Heat an iron pan very hot. Remove extra fat from steak or chops. 
Sear meat on both sides, then turn frequently until cooked as desired, 
using a knife and fork for turning. Five minutes is necessary for 
lamb chop or steak one inch thick. Season with butter, salt, and 
pepper. 

Broiled Lamb or Mutton Chop 

Wipe chops, remove superfluous fat, and place in a broiler greased 
with some of the mutton fat. In loin chops flank may be rolled and 
fastened with a small wooden skewer. Broil over a clear fire, turning 
every ten seconds for the first minute, that surface may be well 
seared, thus preventing escape of juices. After the first minute, 
turn occasionally until well cooked on both sides. 



Broiled Fillet of Beef 

Cut slices about two inches thick from fillet. Shape in circles. 
Place the circles on greased broiler and broil over hot coals from 
4-6 minutes, turning them every 10 seconds. Serve on hot 
platter; garnish with slices of broiled tomato and brown mushroom 
sauce. 



138 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Hamburg Steak 

Ingredients : 

i Ib. round of beef i tsp. onion juice 

i tsp. salt i tbsp. butter 

| tsp. pepper i tbsp. parsley 

Method : 

Shape into cakes and pan-broil. 

Pan-Broiled Chops 

Chops for pan-broiling should have flank and most of fat removed. 
Wipe chops and put in a hissing, hot frying pan. Sear on both sides, 
then turn frequently until cooked as desired. Drain on brown paper, 
put on hot platter and spread with small amount of butter and 
seasonings. 

Breaded Mutton Cutlets 

Ingredients : 

8 Frenched chops, cut thin \ tsp. salt 

i tbsp. butter tsp. pepper 

4 tbsp. flour i c. cream 

\ c. chopped ham 
Method : 

Make a white sauce of the above ingredients. When thoroughly 
cooked add the finely chopped ham, mix thoroughly and set aside to 
cool. Broil the chops. Season each chop with salt and pepper, 
and cover on both sides with a layer of the sauce. Allow them to 
stand on a buttered plate until firm, then dip in egg and crumbs and 
fry in deep fat until brown. Serve with Cuban or tomato sauce. 



Veal Cutlets I 

Cut a slice from the leg or fillet of veal into pieces for serving. 
Dredge with salt, pepper, and flour ; brown in bacon or salt pork fat. 
Remove from pan. Put 2 tablespoons of flour in the pan ; let brown ; 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 139 

add i^ cups of broth or water. When it boils, add the cutlets, cover 
and simmer f of an hour, or until the cutlets are tender. 



Veal Cutlets II 

Use slices of veal from leg cut \ inch thick. Wipe, remove bone 
and skin, then cut in pieces for serving. The long, irregularly-shaped 
pieces may be rolled and fastened with small wooden skewers. 
Dip in seasoned crumbs, egg and crumbs; place in a pan with butter, 
lard and water, cover and cook until tender in a moderate oven. 30 
to 40 minutes is required. 

Veal Loaf 

Ingredients: 

3 Ibs. lean veal (chopped) 2 tbsp. lemon juice 
\ Ib. salt pork (chopped) i tbsp. salt 

6 crackers (ground) \ tbsp. pepper 

4 tbsp. cream onion juice 

Method: 

Mix ingredients, pack in a bread pan, smooth evenly on top, brush 
with white of egg, and bake slowly three hours, basting with pork 
fat. Prick frequently while baking so that pork fat may be absorbed. 

Sweetbreads 

Remove from paper as soon as received from market, plunge into 
cold water and allow to stand i hour. Drain. Place in boiling, 
salted water and add i tsp. lemon juice or vinegar. Cook slowly 
twenty minutes; again drain and plunge into cold water. Free 
from pipe and skin, salt if necessary, and serve as desired. 

Broiled Sweetbreads 

Parboil and cut in halves crosswise. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and broil 5 minutes. Serve with creamed butter to which 
has been added a little lemon juice. 



140 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Creamed Sweetbreads 

Ingredients : 

1 c. cream or rich milk \ tsp. salt 

2 tsp. butter 2 tbsp. flour 

Method : 

Parboil sweetbreads and cut into \ inch cubes. Blend flour and 
a little cold milk to make a smooth mixture. Scald cream in double 
boiler, add the flour mixture and cook thoroughly. Just before 
serving, add the prepared sweetbreads, salt, and butter. Serve hot 
on toasted circles of bread and garnish with parsley, or use as a 
filling for Swedish Timbales or Croustades. 

Bacon I 

Place thin slices of bacon (from which the rind has been removed) 
closely together on a fine wire broiler ; place broiler over dripping- 
pan and bake in a hot oven until bacon is crisp and brown, turning 
once. Drain on brown paper. 

Bacon II 

Remove rind from bacon and parboil until slightly puffed. Place 
in hot frying pan and fry until a light brown, turning often and 
removing fat from pan as it tries out. The bacon should be crisp 
and flaky. 

TOUGH CUTS 

Pot Roast of Beef 

Select a piece of four to six pounds from the rump or round. Wipe 
with a dampened cloth and sear all of the surface in a hot frying pan. 
Place in saucepan, add i cup of boiling water, cover closely and cook 
slowly until very tender. Sprinkle with salt when nearly done. 
Add water if necessary, but only enough to keep meat from burning. 
Add water to make a gravy thickened with i| tsp. flour to i c. 
liquid. 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 141 

Beef Stew 

Ingredients : 

3 Ibs. round of beef 3 carrots 

water to cover i onion 

6 potatoes salt 

flour pepper 

NOTE : i. Salt should be added in the proportion of \ tsp. ; pepper tsp., and 
flour 4 tsp. to i qt. liquid. A fireless cooker is convenient for 
stews. 

Method : 

Cut beef in pieces, cover with water, bring to boiling point and 
simmer 3 hours, or until meat is tender. Add diced vegetables i hour 
before meat is cooked. Remove vegetables and meat and thicken 
the liquid. Boil 5 minutes and return meat and vegetables to the pan. 

NOTE : 2. Serve with dumplings made like emergency biscuit with shorten- 
ing omitted. Drop by spoonfuls on top of stew, cover, and 
steam until done, then cook three minutes uncovered. 



Beef Broth 

Ingredients : 

\ Ib. round of beef i c. cold water 

salt 

Method : 

Wipe meat, remove fat, and cut meat in pieces. Add cold water 
and let soak 15 minutes. Put in pan of cold water. Heat water 
slowly to 150 degrees F. Cook 2 hours. Strain and season. Reheat, 
skim off fat with spoon and paper. In reheating, be careful not to 
coagulate the albumin. 

Beef Juice 

Select a piece of meat from the rump or upper round. Wipe, re- 
move fat, cut in pieces, heat in a double boiler until juice flows. 
Squeeze out the juice by means of a press, lemon squeezer, or potato 
ricer. Serve at once in a colored glass. 



142 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

LEFT-OVER MEATS 

Meat Cakes 

Ingredients : 

2 c. cold roast beef i egg 

| c. crumbs 2 tsp. melted butter 

seasoning 

MethocF: 

Shape into oval cakes and brown in butter. 



Meat Pie 

Ingredients : 

2 c. chopped roast beef i c. mashed potatoes 

gravy seasoning 

Method : 

Combine ingredients except potatoes. Place in a buttered baking 
dish and cover with mashed potato. Brush with beaten egg. Bake 
until potatoes are slightly browned. 



Browned Hash 

Ingredients : 

1 c. meat 4 tbsp. fat 

2 c. mashed potatoes salt and pepper 
| c. boiling water onion juice 

chopped parsley 

Method : 

Put the mixture into a frying pan in which i tbsp. of fat has been 
heated. Spread smoothly ; cook over moderate heat so it will brown 
slowly and not burn. Cook about one half hour and do not stir. 
Fold like an omelet. 

The same mixture may be made into small cakes f inch thick and 
browned in the same way. 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 143 

Casserole of Rice and Meat 

Ingredients : 

2 c. cooked lamb i tbsp. chopped parsley 

i tsp. salt i egg (may be omitted) 

I tsp. pepper \ c. fine crumbs 

\ tsp. onion juice 4 c. boiled rice 

stock 
Method : 

Season meat and mix with crumbs and beaten egg ; add enough 
stock to make it pack easily. Line a mold with 3 c. rice, fill with 
the meat ; cover with remainder of rice, cover tightly and steam 45 
minutes. Serve with Cuban sauce. 



Casserole of Beef 

Cut cold roast beef and steak alone or in combination in i inch 
cubes ; there should be one quart. Put in a casserole dish and add 
2 c. brown sauce or roast beef gravy, \ c. celery, and \ c. carrots cut 
in cubes, i onion thinly sliced, i c. canned tomatoes, i tsp. Worces- 
tershire sauce, \ tsp. salt, and \ tsp. pepper. Cover and bake one 
hour ; then add i c. peas, beans, or mushrooms, canned or fresh, i c. 
potato balls, previously cooked in boiling salted water 10 minutes. 
Serve from casserole. 

Casserole of Veal 

Ingredients : 

i Ib. veal 3 c. stock 

3-4 small onions i small piece salt pork 

\ c. cubed carrots i small piece suet 

\ c. cubed onions 6 tbsp. flour 

i stalk celery kitchen bouquet 

8 potato balls seasonings 

Method : 

Brown the vegetables and meat in tried-out salt pork. Make a 
brown sauce with flour and stock. Pour over the meat and vege- 
tables in a casserole. Bake one hour. 



144 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Souffle of Lamb 

Ingredients : 

2 c. lamb i tsp. kitchen bouquet 

2 tbsp. butter ^ c. stock 

3 tbsp. flour i c. cream or milk 
\ tsp. salt | c. crumbs 
cayenne i tsp. parsley 

3 eggs 
Method : 

Prepare sauce, add meat, crumbs, and seasonings. Add the well- 
beaten yolks, and fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Bake in 
moderate oven until light. 

Royal Scallop 

Ingredients : 

I Ib. ham 3 tbsp. flour 

3 hard-cooked eggs 3 tbsp. butter 

parsley i pt. milk 

2 c. buttered crumbs 
Method : 

Scald a blade of mace with the milk, and strain. Make a white 
sauce of the butter, flour, and hot milk. Chop ham and eggs, add 
parsley and white sauce. Prepare as any scalloped dish. Bake in 
hot oven until crumbs are brown. 

MEAT SAUCES 

Brown Sauce 

Ingredients : 

i tbsp. chopped onion 2 tbsp. butter 

i tbsp. chopped carrot 3 tbsp. flour 

i sprig parsley j tsp. salt 

i sprig thyme 5 tsp. pepper 

piece bay leaf i c. brown stock 

Method : 

Cook the vegetables and herbs in the butter until brown ; add the 
flour (an extra tbsp. is used as flour loses its thickening quality to 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 145 

some extent when changed to dextrin) and brown. Add the stock 
gradually. Strain before using. 

Brown Mushroom Sauce 

To i c. of brown sauce add ^ c. canned button mushrooms, whole 
or cut in halves. Fresh mushrooms must be cleaned, pulled, browned 
in butter or simmered in water until tender, before they are added to 
the sauce. 

Mushroom Sauce 

1 ngredients : 

drippings from fillet i pt. stock 

2 tsp. butter i pt. cooked mushrooms 

4 tsp. flour i tsp. Worcestershire sauce 

salt and pepper 

Method : 

Heat the butter and drippings until brown, add the flour and then 
the stock gradually. Strain and add the mushrooms. Cook 5 
minutes. Add Worcestershire sauce, salt, and pepper. 

Cuban Sauce I 

Ingredients : 

1 pt. tomatoes \ tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. sugar \ c. flour 

1 c. lamb stock \ c. butter 

Method : 

Cook first two ingredients until tomatoes are soft, strain and add 
stock. Melt butter, add flour, and when browned add liquid gradually. 

Cuban Sauce II 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. chopped ham i| c. stock 
4 tbsp. flour i c. catsup 
4 tbsp. butter \ tsp. salt 

Method : 

Cook ham in the butter until browned. Proceed as for White Sauce, 



146 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Horseradish Sauce 

Ingredients : 

3 tbsp. grated horseradish cayenne 

i tbsp. vinegar | c. cream (whipped) 

^ tsp. salt 

Method : 

Mix first four ingredients. Fold in the cream. 

Spanish Sauce for Steak 

Ingredients : 

% c. catsup i tsp. Worcestershire sauce 

Method : 

Thicken with flour, add i c. mushrooms, and i tsp. horseradish. 

SCORE CARD 

Roast of Meat 
General appearance 30 

Compactness (10) 

Form (10) 

Color (10) 

Meat 70 

Flavor 

Retained (25) 

Seasoning (10) 

Degree of Cooking (10) 

Tenderness developed by Cooking (25) 

100 

GELATIN 

Commercial gelatin is obtained from the skin, ligaments, and 
bones of sound animals. Gelatins made in the kitchen are 
obtained from the tissues, ligaments, and bones of young ani- 
mals or fowl. Gelatin as a food cannot meet the entire protein 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 147 

requirement, since it is lacking certain animo-acid radicles, 
the most important being tryptophan, but this lack may be 
offset by using with gelatin other foods such as milk or cream 
whose proteins are rich in tryptophan. Gelatin is an excellent 
medium for using or disguising milk, eggs, or fruit and may thus 
play a very important part in the diet. 

GELATIN EXPERIMENTS 

In these experiments gelatin used for desserts will be considered. 
See meat experiments, also. 

139. - - Have at hand samples of various gelatins. Use each 
gelatin as follows : 

a. i tsp. gelatin and \ c. hot water. 

b. i tsp. gelatin and \ c. boiling water. 

c. i tsp. gelatin and \ c. cold water. 
In which is the gelatin most soluble? 
Does it dissolve in cold water? 

140. - - Use one of the dissolved gelatins to make the following tests : 

Biuret, page 85. 
Xanthoproteic, page 85. 
Fehling-Benedict, page 13. 
Iodine, page 13. 
Coagulation on boiling. 

NOTE : It will hardly be necessary to test each gelatin for the above re- 
actions. 

141. - - Make three solutions A, B, C, using non-acidulated gelatin 
(i tsp. gelatin soaked in i tbsp. cold water, add \ c. boiling water). 

Boil A for 5 minutes. Set on ice in mold. 

Boil B for 10 minutes. Set on ice in mold. 

Boil C for 15 minutes. Set on ice in mold. 

Which is most desirable ? What has happened to the gelatin ? 

142. Make four solutions, A, B, C, D, as in Expt. 141. 
Put A on ice in mold. 



148 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

To B add | c. lemon juice. Put on ice in mold. 

To C, add 2 tbsp. fresh pineapple juice or 4 tbsp. pineapple pulp. 
Thoroughly mix and put on ice in mold. 

To D add 2 tbsp. fresh pineapple juice which has been boiled for 
2 minutes. Thoroughly mix and put on ice in mold. 

What do you observe in B, C, D? How do you account for the 
failure of the gelatin to solidify in B and C ? 

Compare the consistency of A and D. How do you account for 
the delicacy of D ? Beat D with a Dover egg beater until foamy. 
What gives it this appearance? 

Have the class divided so that all brands of gelatins are 
used. Compare results. 

Make a table showing the proper amount of : gelatin, liquid, 
fruit juice, sugar. 

GELATIN DESSERTS 

General Rules 

Fill molds with cold water and let stand. 

Soak gelatin in cold water to soften it. 

Add the boiling liquid to the softened gelatin to dissolve it. 

Add sugar to this mixture while hot to dissolve the sugar. 

Strain fruit gelatins through a cheesecloth before cooling. 

Cover gelatin mixtures while cooling to protect from dust. 

Varieties 

1. Fruit jellies : Mold after straining; when firm turn 

Lemon jelly out on serving dish. Serve with soft 

Orange jelly custard or whipped cream. 

2. Fruit jellies with white Cool until sirupy. Add stifHy beaten 

of egg : egg white and beat until firm enough 

Snow pudding ; Sponges to mold. 

3. Fruit jellies with cream: Add whipped cream when sirupy. 

Bavarian creams 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 



149 



4. Custard jellies : 

Spanish cream 
Macaroon cream 

5. Charlottes : 



Add stiffly beaten white to custard jelly. 
After straining, beat occasionally while 

cooling. Mold when begins to thicken. 
Jellies with the whip from thin cream. 
Add the whip when the mixture begins 

to thicken. 



Ingredients : 

Gelatin . . 
Cold water . 
Boiling liquid 



Sugar . . 
Fruit juice 



Fruit Jellies 

Orange Prune 

2 tbsp. -2\ tbsp. 



c. water 



\ Ib. prunes and 
liquid to make 



2 C. 
1C. 1C. 

i| c. orange juice \ c. lemon juice 
juice i lemon 



Lemon 
2 tbsp. 
*c. 
i c. water 



c. lemon juice 



Ingredients : Coffee 

Gelatin ..... 2 tbsp. 



Wine 



i tbsp. 



r 
2 c. 

i c. water 
i r 

3 C - 



tc. 



juice i lemon, juice \ orange 
\ c. wine 



Cold water . . . 
Boiling liquid . 
Sugar ..... 
Fruit juice .... 

2 c. boiled coffee 

Fruit : When orange or lemon jelly begins to thicken, add sliced 
bananas, cherries, pieces of cooked pineapple, nuts, and orange sections. 

Fruit jellies with whip : Fill glasses f full and let stand until firm. 
Cool a small portion of the jelly until sirupy. Whip until frothy 
and place on top of glasses. 



Sponges 

Ingredients : Pineapple 

Gelatin 2 tbsp. 

Cold water | c. 

Boiling water \ c. 



Sugar 

Pineapple juice . . . . 

Egg whites .3 

Shredded pineapple . . . . \ 



tc. 
Ic. 



can 



Chocolate 
2\ tbsp. 

2 c. 

i oz. chocolate and 2\ c. 

scalded milk 
6 tbsp. 
\ tsp. salt 

3 whole eggs 
i tsp. vanilla 



150 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 



Snow Puddings 

Lemon 



Gelatin 2 tbsp. 

Cold water \ c. 

Boiling water i c. 

Sugar f c. 

Lemon juice | c. 

Orange juice 

Egg whites 3 

Spanish Creams 

Ingredients : Plain 

Gelatin 2 tbsp. 

Cold liquid ^ c. milk 

Scalded milk 2 c. 

Egg yolks 3 

Sugar \ c. 

Salt | tsp. 

Vanilla i tbsp. 

Egg whites 3 

Macaroons 



Orange 

2 tbsp. 
ic. 

I C. 

fc. 

3 tbsp. 



Macaroon 

2 tbsp. 
| c. water 
2 c. 



ic. 
ttsp. 



f c. crumbs 



Bavarian Creams 



Ingredients : 

Gelatin . . 
Cold water 
Boiling liquid 
Sugar . . 
Fruit juice 

Cream 



Coffee 
^ tbsp. 



r 
<- 



Grape 

if tbsp. 

2f tbsp. 

i c. grape juice 
c. i c. 

4 tbsp. lemon 

juice 
^ c. (whipped) if c. (whipped) 



\ c. coffee 



Orange 

1 tbsp. 

2 c. 

| c. water 

i c. 

i c. orange juice 

\ lemon 
i c. (whipped) 



MEATS, STOCK SOUPS, AND GELATIN 



Charlottes 



Gelatin. . . . 

Cold water . . 
Boiling liquid 

Sugar . . . . 

Thin cream (whip 

from) . . . 

Flavoring . . . 



Russe 

ij tbsp. 
ic. 


Orange 
if tbsp. 


Strawberry 
2 tbsp. 


Caramel 
1 5 tbsp. 

5 C. 


J c. cream 


i c. water 


J c. water 


i c. water 


J c. pow- 
dered 


I C. 


I C. 


i c. cara- 
melized 


3 | C . 


3 c. 


3 c. 


3 c. 


ii tsp. 
vanilla 


i c. orange 
juice 
3 tbsp. 
lemon 


2 c. straw- 
berry pulp 
i tbsp. 
lemon 


i tsp. 
vanilla 




juice 


juice 





i| tbsp. 
i c. 

| c. cream 
I c. 



3 P. 

i oz. 
choco- 
late 

i tsp. 
vanilla 



tbsp. 
. 
c. coffee 



I c. 



Ic. 



3 c. 



NOTE : The cream left after removing the whip may be used for other pur- 
poses. 

SCORE CARD 



Gelatin Desserts 



General appearance 

Container 

Form 

Color 

Appearance 

Garnish 



40 



(5) 
(10) 

(10) 

(10) 

(5) 



Gelatin mixture 

Density (10) 

Flavor (40) 

Imperceptibility of gelatin (10) 



60 



100 



REFERENCES 

ATWATER. Poultry as Food. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Farmers' Bulletin 182 (1903). 

ATWATER and BRYANT. The Composition of American Food Mate- 
rials. United States Department of Agriculture, Office of Ex- 
periment Stations, Bulletin 28 (Revised). 

CARVER. The Pickling and Curing of Meat in Hot Weather. Tus- 
keegee Institute, Experiment Station, Bulletin 24 (1912). 



152 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

COOK. Bouillon Cubes : Their Contents and Food Value compared 
with Meat Extracts and Homemade Preparations of Meat. 
United States Department of Agriculture, Bulletin 27 (1913). 

EDELMANN. Textbook of Meat Hygiene. 

GREEN. How to Cook Meat and Poultry. 

GRINDLEY. Studies of the Effect of Different Methods of Cooking 
upon the Thoroughness and Ease of Digestion of Meat. United 
States Department of Agriculture. Office of the Experiment 
Stations, Bulletin 193 (1907). 

HALL. Market Classes and Grades of Meat. University of Illinois, 
Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin No. 147. 

HALL and EMMETT. Relative Economy, Composition and Nutri- 
tive Value of the Various Cuts of Beef. Illinois Agricultural 
Experiment Station, Bulletin 158 (1912). 

LANGWORTHY. The Guinea Fowl and its Use as Food. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 234 (1905). 

LANGWORTHY and HUNT. Mutton and its Value in the Diet. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 526 

(1913)- 
LANGWORTHY and HUNT. Economical Use of Meat in the Home. 

United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 

No. 391 (Corrected 1910). 
LEACH. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

LIGHTON and DOUGLAS. The Meat Industry and Meat Inspection. 
MITCHELL. Flesh Foods. 
PENNINGTON. The Handling of Dressed Poultry a Thousand Miles 

from the Market. Yearbook of the Department of Agriculture 

for 1912. 

SHERMAN. Food Products. 
SPRAGUE. A Precise Method of Roasting Beef. University of 

Illinois, Bulletin 419 (1907). 
WILEY. Foods and their Adulterations. 

WILEY and BIGELO\V. Preserved Meats. United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 13, Part 

10. 
WHITE. Meat. Ohio State University, Agricultural College Home 

Makers' Reading Course (1912). 



CHAPTER X 
POULTRY 

IN selecting poultry see that the flesh is firm, that there is a 
fair amount of fat underneath the skin, that the latter is whole 
and of a clear yellow color, and that the odor is good. Chickens 
and fowls have certain characteristics which make them read- 
ily distinguishable. Chickens have soft feet, a flexible breast 
bone, many pin feathers, and little fat, while fowls have hard 
and scaly feet, a rigid breast bone, long hairs, and a large 
amount of fat around the intestines. 

Poultry is not classed as belonging to the slaughterhouse 
industry and does not come under the provisions of the meat 
inspection law. 

The composition of poultry is essentially the same as that of 
meat. The light meat is composed of more tender fibers less 
firmly held together by connective tissue than the dark meat. 
Light meat also contains less fat. For these reasons, it is apt 
to be more rapidly digested, at least in the stomach, and is 
therefore preferable for persons having weak digestion. 

Dressing and cleaning poultry. The " dressing ' of chicken is 
often done now at the market. If it is necessary to do it, make an 
incision with a sharp knife just inside one of the legs, in the groin. 
Remove all entrails. Loosen skin at neck and remove crop. Wash 
thoroughly inside and out, holding the cavity under running water. 
Singe hairs by holding over burning paper or gas flame. Remove 
pin feathers with the point of a knife and cut the oil bag from the tail. 
If it is a fowl, take out the tendons separately, using a skewer. Cut 
the gall bladder away from the liver and cut off the outer coat of the 



154 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

gizzard. Place gizzard and heart in cold water ; heat quickly to 
boiling and then simmer until tender. Add the liver a short time 
before removing the other giblets. The giblets may be chopped and 
added to the gravy. 

Trussing poultry. Insert a skewer underneath the legs, then 
thrust another one through the wings and breast. With string, tie 
the ends of the legs together and fasten them to the tail. Wind the 
ends of the string fastened to the tail, around the ends of the skewer 
beneath the legs. Cross the strings over the back, and wind them 
around the ends of the skewer through the wings; tie the strings 
together at the back. 

Boning poultry or birds. To bone birds, chickens, or turkeys, 
select undrawn birds with head and feet on. Remove pin feathers 
and singe. Draw tendons from the legs by making an incision just 
below the knee joint, and with a strong skewer draw the tendons out 
one at a time. Loosen the skin near the feet and cut off feet. 
Make an incision through the skin from the neck to the tail, the 
entire length of the backbone. Scrape the flesh from the bones until 
the shoulder blade is found, then continue scraping around the wing 
joint. Scrape down the backbone to the thigh, then around the 
second joint and leg, cutting tendinous portion when necessary. 
When one side of backbone is boned, bone the other, then remove 
flesh from breastbone, on either side of bird. When flesh is all 
separated from bone, discard carcass (i.e. the skeleton with entrails, 
etc.), wipe flesh and skin, and arrange in original shape. The birds 
may be seasoned and broiled, or stuffed, sewed into shape and steamed. 
Small birds are generally prepared the former way, and large birds 
the latter way. 

Roast Chicken 
Time: 4 Ibs. i hrs. 

Fill cavity of a dressed chicken with stuffing (see below) and sew 
edges together. Truss and place on its back in a roasting pan. 
Dredge with flour, and salt, spread with butter, or lay strips of bacon 
across the chicken. Brown in a hot oven, then reduce temperature, 
cover and baste frequently until breast meat is tender. 



POULTRY 155 

Stuffing for Roast Chicken 

Ingredients : 

i c. crumbs onion juice 

c. melted butter parsley 

| tsp. salt ^ tsp. poultry seasoning 

| tsp. pepper 

Gravy 

Pour off liquid from the pan and place 2 tbsp. chicken fat or butter 
in the pan. Brown with 2 tbsp. flour and i c. stock in which giblets 
were cooked. Season. Strain. 

Evaporate water in pan and add flour. Brown and proceed as 
above. 

Add the flour mixed with a little cold milk to the boiling liquid in 
the pan. 

To Cut up a Fowl for Stewing 

After removing entrails and other organs singe, draw out pin 
feathers, remove tendons, and oil bag. Cut through flesh, at thigh, 
bend back legs and cut off. Separate second joint and drum stick. 
Remove wings and cut off the tips. Separate back from breast by 
cutting through the ribs. Cut breast in two with a cleaver. 

Stewing 

Cover pieces of fowl with boiling water. Simmer until tender, 
adding salt when half cooked. 

Fricasseed Chicken 

Dredge stewed chicken with flour and brown in chicken fat. Ar- 
range on toast surrounded with white or brown sauce and biscuits. 

Fried Chicken 

Dip stewed chicken in flour, egg and flour. Brown in chicken fat 
and lard, or butter and lard. Serve with brown sauce. 



156 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Maryland Chicken 

Dip stewed chicken in flour, egg and fine crumbs. Place in a 
dripping pan with pieces of salt pork or chicken fat. Cover and bake 
30 minutes. Serve with white sauce, broiled bacon, and corn fritters. 

Sauce for Chicken 

Ingredients : 

2 c. chicken stock 4 tbsp. flour 

(half milk may be used) salt 

4 tbsp. chicken fat pepper 

2 tsp. parsley 

Chicken Pie 

Ingredients : 

1 stewed fowl cut in pieces biscuit crust (2 c. flour) 

2 c. brown sauce parsley 

Method : 

Place the chicken in a buttered baking dish, add the brown sauce 
and parsley and cover the mixture with biscuit dough. 

Place a cup in center of baking dish to hold up crust if the baking 
dish is large. Have the brown sauce and chicken hot when the 
crust is added. Bake in a hot oven. 

Chicken en Casserole 

Dress and clean a young, tender fowl and cut in pieces for serving. 
Spread with ^ c. butter, put in a casserole and sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Pour over i c. boiling water, cover, and cook until chicken 
is tender, the time required being about i hour. Add i c. cream 
and 2 c. mushrooms. Cook 10 minutes and thicken with i tbsp. 
flour, diluted with 2 tbsp. water. 

Creamed Chicken 

Equal parts cubed chicken and medium white sauce. Use chicken 
fat instead of butter and half milk and stock for the liquid in the 
white sauce. 



POULTRY 157 

Chicken a la King 

Ingredients : 

i c. chicken cut in strips 3^ tbsp. fat 

| c. sauteed mushrooms i tbsp. cornstarch 

| c. pimentoes i| c. stock 

| c. peas or half milk and stock 

\ c. string beans | tsp. salt 

i egg yolk 

Creole Chicken 

Ingredients : 

4 tbsp. butter 4 tbsp. flour 

1 c. finely chopped onion 2 c. chicken stock 

2 c. stewed tomatoes i finely chopped red pepper 
| c. celery salt 

i chicken 
Method : 

Cut chicken in pieces for serving. Brown chicken in butter with 
the onion. Remove chicken, add flour, chicken stock, tomatoes, red 
pepper, celery, and salt. Cook until flavors are well blended. Pre- 
pare chicken in sauce and cook until tender, adding more water as 
liquid evaporates. 

Arrange on serving platter ; surround with gravy and garnish with 
cooked macaroni and parsley. 



CHAPTER XI 
FISH AND SHELLFISH 

THERE is a steadily increasing tendency towards better con- 
servation and more economical utilization of the fishery prod- 
ucts as food. The Government maintains a Bureau of Fish- 
eries and has established stations on the coast and inland lakes 
for the study and protection of these food supplies. The fish- 
ery industries are capable of great development both by im- 
proved methods of handling the well-known species and by 
utilizing as food the flesh of species formerly neglected. 

According to the quantity of fat it contains, fish may be di- 
vided into two classes : (a) lean, or white fish, and (b) oily, or 
dark fish. The flesh of lean fish is light in color and the oil 
is concentrated in the liver. The flesh of oily fish is dark in 
color, and the oil is distributed throughout the body. Cod, hali- 
but, haddock, etc., are white fish. Salmon, mackerel, herring, 
etc., are dark fish. 

Fish may also be divided into two classes, according to the 
water in which they live, fish from the sea being termed salt- 
water fish, and those from inland lakes and rivers, fresh-water 
fish. 

Detailed information in regard to the various species of food 
fish may be obtained from the Reports and Bulletins of the 
United States Bureau of Fisheries. 

Fish is at its best when cleaned and cooked just after being 
caught. Fish to be sold " fresh ' may be sent directly to 
market or may be kept in cold storage either chilled to ice 
temperature or hard frozen. In selecting fish see that the 

158 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 159 

flesh feels firm, that the eyes are bright and bulging, and that 
the gills are red and free from blubber. 

From most standpoints fish and shellfish are interchangeable 
with meat in the dietary. There is a general similarity in the 
chemical structure of the proteins, and the coefficients of diges- 
tibility of fish are approximately equal to those of meat. 

Many kinds of fish are preserved in large quantities by drying, 
salting, smoking, canning, or by combinations of these methods. 
For outlines of the preparation of salt codfish, canned salmon 
and sardines in oil see Sherman's Food Products, pages 230-236. 

Methods of cooking fish : 

boiling braising frying 

steaming baking " planking ' 

broiling 

Technique of cooking fish. To prevent flesh falling apart, due to 
tendency of the connective tissue to dissolve, 

a. Wrap in cheesecloth when boiling. 

b. Coat with egg and crumbs when frying. 

c. Place on strips of buttered cheesecloth when baking. 
Cleaning fish. Rub off scales from tail to head with a sharp knife. 

Cut through the skin of the back and abdomen, loosen it at the tail 
and pull it off. Remove head, open abdomen and take out the in- 
ternal organs. Wash in cold, salt water. 

Boning fish. Slit the flesh down the back and separate flesh from 
side bones. Pull out the spine and attached bones. 

Fish in combination with other food : With potatoes as fishballs, 
with eggs as souffle, with white sauce as croquettes, creamed or 
scalloped, with celery as salad. 

Vegetables suitable for serving with fish as garnish are : 

potato balls or curls parsley cucumber 

Sauces for fish: 

drawn butter Bechamel egg 

sauce tartare olive cheese 

Hollandaise 



160 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Boiled Fish 

Thick pieces, or whole, small fish 
i tbsp. salt to 3 qts. water 

Wrap in cheesecloth, plunge into boiling water. Simmer 30-40 
minutes, or until tender. 

Broiled Fish 

Broil the flesh side first, then turn and broil other side. The 
length of time for cooking depends on the thickness of the fish. 
Season with butter, salt, pepper, and garnish with parsley. 



Steamed Fish 

Wipe fish with damp cloth. Wrap in cheesecloth and steam or 
boil until tender. Time varies with size and shape of fish. At end 
of 5 minutes, add i tbsp. of salt. A little vinegar may also be 
added to the water. 

Baked Stuffed Fish 

Wash fish and dry with cheesecloth. If not cleaned, remove in- 
ternal organs. Remove backbone by beginning at the tail and with 
a sharp knife push the flesh away from the bones. Wipe with damp 
cloth, sprinkle with salt, and stuff. Sew with coarse cotton, insert 
slices of salt pork at intervals on each side. Bake in hot oven, allow- 
ing 15 minutes to the pound with 15 minutes additional. Serve 
with Hollandaise Sauce. 



Stuffing for Fish 

Ingredients: 

2 c. bread crumbs i tsp. onion juice 

^ tsp. salt i tsp. chopped parsley 

| tsp. white pepper i tsp. capers or chopped pickles 

cayenne \ c. melted butter 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 161 

Fish Cooked in Fat 

Season with salt and pepper, dip in flour, egg, and dried crumbs. 
Fry in deep fat. Drain on paper. 

Fried Smelts 

Clean smelts, leaving on heads and tails. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, dip in flour, egg, and crumbs, and fry 3-4 minutes in deep 
fat. Arrange on hot platter. Garnish with parsley and lemon. 
Serve with Sauce Tartare. 

Shad Roe 

Wash and cook in boiling, salted water 10 minutes. Drain and 
dry. Season. Broil or brown in butter. 

Turbans of Flounder 

Clean fish, remove skin and backbone. Cut each fillet in two 
pieces or if very large three pieces. Season with salt and pepper, 
roll and fasten with small skewers or toothpicks. Dip in crumbs, 
egg and crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Drain on brown paper and serve 
with Sauce Tartare. 

Planked Haddock 

Skin and bone a haddock, leaving meat in two fillets. Brown fillets 
separately. Remove to a plank and season with salt and pepper. 
Garnish with mashed potatoes, outlining the original shape of the 
fish. Bake until potatoes are well browned. Finish garnishing with 
parsley and slices of lemon covered with finely chopped parsley. 

FISH COMBINED WITH OTHER FOODS 

Fish Balls 

Ingredients : 

1 c. salt codfish i egg 

2 c. potatoes \ tbsp. butter 

| tsp. pepper 

M 



162 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Wash the fish in cold water and break into small pieces. Wash 
and pare the potatoes and cut into pieces. Cook the fish and potatoes 
together in boiling water until the potatoes are soft. Drain and 
shake over the fire until dry ; mash with a wire potato masher, add 
the beaten egg, butter and pepper, and beat until light. Take up 
the mixture by spoonfuls, mold slightly and slip into the hot fat. 
Fry until brown, or shape into round, flat cakes, dredge with Hour 
and brown in butter. 

Scalloped Fish 

Ingredients : 

2 c. flaked fish 2 c. medium white sauce 

i c. buttered crumbs 

Creamed Codfish 

Reheat boiled codfish in medium white sauce. An egg may be 
added. Serve on toast. 

Fish Chowder 

Ingredients : 

5 Ib. haddock 4 c. cold water 

4 c. diced potatoes 2 tbsp. butter 

i onion 4 tbsp. flour 

\ c. diced salt pork 4 c. scalded milk 

salt, pepper, cayenne 10 buttered crackers 

Method, : 

Remove head, skin, and bones and cut fish into fillets. Cover 
head, skin, and bones with cold water. Simmer 20 minutes, strain, 
and reserve liquid. Parboil potatoes 10 minutes. Cook onions in 
salt pork until yellow. Remove onion and salt pork if desired. 
Arrange fish and potatoes in layers, seasoning with salt and pepper. 
Cover with water in which bones were cooked and simmer until 
potatoes are tender. Combine mixtures and pour over buttered 
crackers which have been soaked in enough cold milk to moisten 
them. 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 163 

FISH SAUCES 

Egg Sauce 

Ingredients : 

i pt. boiling water i tsp. salt 

| c. butter i tbsp. lemon juice or vinegar 

cayenne 2 hard-cooked eggs 

Method : 

Prepare in the same way as white sauce. The eggs may be chopped 
or the whites sliced and the yolks pressed through a sieve and added 
to the sauce. 

Drawn Butter Sauce 

Ingredients : 

% c. butter if c. hot water 

3 tbsp. flour f tsp. salt 

| tsp. pepper 

Method : 

Melt f the butter, add flour and seasonings and gradually the hot 
water. Boil 5 minutes and add remaining butter in small pieces. 



Bechamel Sauce 

Ingredients : 

if c. white stock J c. butter 

i slice onion c. flour 

i slice carrot i c. scalded milk 

i bay leaf f tsp. salt 

parsley f tsp. pepper 

Method : 

Cook stock 20 minutes with onion, carrot, bay leaf, parsley ; strain. 
There should be i cupful. Melt the butter, add flour and gradually 
hot stock and milk. Season with salt and pepper. 



1 64 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Maitre d'Hotel Butter 

Ingredients : 

\ c. butter | tbsp. chopped parsley 

| tsp. salt f tbsp. lemon juice 

| tsp. pepper 
Method : 

Put butter in a bowl and cream. Add salt, pepper, and parsley, 
then lemon juice very slowly. The heat of the meat or fish will 
dissolve the butter. 

Sauce Tartare 
To f c. mayonnaise dressing add \ tbsp. each, finely chopped. 

capers onions 

pickles parsley 

\ shallot 1 

} may be omitted 
\ tsp. powdered tarragon J 

Hollandaise Sauce 

Ingredients : 

\ c. butter \ tsp. salt 

2 egg yolks T ^ tsp. cayenne 

1 \ tsp. lemon juice \ c. boiling water 

Method : 

Cream the butter and add yolks one at a time ; beat well. Add 
seasoning, then boiling water and cook over hot water, stirring con- 
stantly until mixture thickens. Remove from fire, add lemon juice 
and serve at once. 

Mock Hollandaise Sauce 

Ingredients : 

3 tbsp. butter i tsp. salt 
3 tbsp. flour y-i lemon 

2 c. milk 2 eggs 

Method : 

Prepare white sauce. Pour over beaten eggs, stir until it thickens. 
Add lemon juice before serving. 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 



165 



FOOD VALUES 
Creamed Codfish on Toast 













H 








^^ 






a 








H 


in 







go 








HH tn 


U5 


rn 


Q ryi 


iJ W 




? O t/i 


S Cu en 


to 




P 


C 


W P 


- P 






fn 


M P 


O 52 




MATERIAL 


w 


O C 
i-i eS 


g| 


^ C 


H 2 


* 





^ 
/j C^ TO 
HH 1 < 


fg t/i C3 
PH rt g 


o 




W 


>o 




fo o 





H < 


CJ 


^ f 1 T T 


C/3 . ^ 

o <J O 


~o 




^j 


*^ 


p*^ 




M 


U 




^*^ rt 


W rt 














<! 




$ 


u 


PH 














U 








* ' 




Bread . . . 


2 slices 


78 


7-2 


.92 


40.78 


2OO 


.008 


.022 


15 


.0006 


Fish . 


2 tbsp. 


14.6 


4 


.04 




17 


.009 


.003 


.09 


.0001 


Butter . . 


i| tbsp. 


15-7 


15 


13.34 




121 


.0119 


.004 


.004 




Butter . . 


2 tbsp. 


28 


.28 


23.8 




215 


.0212 


.006 


.008 




Flour . . . 


2 tbsp. 


I4.I 


1.58 


.14 


10.56 


50 


.0015 


.004 


.025 


.0002 


Milk . . . 


I C. 


216.6 


7.14 


8.67 


18.83 


150 


.0225 


358 


454 


.0005 


Total, 
cooked | 


2 slices ] 
bread > 
f c. fishj 


333 


20.4 


46.91 


70.17 


753 


.0742 


.396 


731 


.0014 




bread > 


242.9 


2.7 


6.2 


9-33 


100 


.01 


053 


.097 


.0002 



SHELLFISH 

Shellfish are divided into two classes : (a) mollusks, and 
(b) crustaceans. Clams, oysters, scallops, and mussels belong 
to the first class, and lobsters, crabs, shrimps, and crawfish 
belong to the second class. 

Oysters. Oysters are the most important of the shellfish 
as factors in the general food supply. The flavor depends 
on the locality in which they are grown. The smaller are 
sought for serving raw, and the medium and larger for cooking. 
They are in season from September to May and are much safer 
in the latter part of the winter. 1 The whole flesh of the oyster 

1 The danger of infection through eating oysters from polluted waters is dis- 
cussed in Prescott and Winslow's Elements of Water Bacteriology, and Sherman's 
Food Products, 



1 66 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

is edible, even the muscle by which it opens and shuts its shell 
being tender. 

Clams. Clams are of two kinds. They are known as hard 
and soft, or round and long, and in Rhode Island the hard, 
round clam bears the Indian name Quahaug, the soft-shell clam 
being the only " clam." The round clams are raked from the 
bottom of shallow waters and are used when young and small 
in place of raw oysters. The long clams lie buried in the mud 
of creeks and shores left exposed at low tide, and are dug out 
of the mud with hooks. Both kinds of clams have a tough 
portion that is softened in cooking and that is more or less 
indigestible. The long " neck ' which protrudes from the 
shell should be discarded. Clams are always in season. They 
are cheap and are commonly used in soups and chowders. 

Scallops. Scallops as purchased consist solely of the round 
white muscle which operates the shell. The scallop is migra- 
tory and reaches the creeks and shores in autumn. 

Lobsters. The muscle of lobsters compares favorably with 
meat. When fresh, and served at a suitable time, lobsters are 
not indigestible. 

Crabs. Crabs, like lobsters, shed their shell annually. When 
the new shell is forming, they are called soft-shell crabs. They 
are found near the coast of the Southern and Middle States, 
and are usually high-priced. Crabs should be inspected accord- 
ing to the rules for lobsters. 

Steamed Clams 

For steaming, clams should be bought in the shell. Wash in 
several waters. Place in saucepan, allowing \ c. water to i qt. 
clams. Cover closely and steam until clams partially open. Care 
should be taken not to overcook them. Serve with melted butter. 
A few drops of lemon juice may be added to the butter. 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 167 

Clam Broth 

Ingredients : 

2 doz. clams water 

2 tbsp. butter pepper 

salt 
Method : 

Wash and scrub clams and place in saucepan with cold water. 
Cook until shells are open. Evaporate liquid down to 2 c. Remove 
soft part from shells, add to liquid, add seasonings, reheat, and serve 
with a cracker or piece of toast. 

Clam Chowder I 

Ingredients : 

3 doz. clams i onion 

1 c. boiling water 4 tbsp. butter 

2 c. potato cubes 4 c. scalded milk 

4 slices bacon 8 crackers 

salt and pepper 
Method : 

Wash and steam clams. Remove meat and chop. Cook potatoes, 
bacon, onion, salt, pepper, and butter in clam juice until vegetables 
are soft, adding more water if needed. Add clams and simmer 3 
minutes. Add milk and crackers before serving. 

Clam Chowder II 

Ingredients : 

f i^ doz. clams \ tsp. tabasco sauce 

A { i c. tomatoes \ tsp. salt 

I i tbsp. catsup | tsp. pepper 

[4 slices bacon i tsp. parsley 

D 4 . , 

( i cubed potato i onion 

r / i slice toast - - diced \ sliced lemon 

\ 2 tbsp. cracker crumbs 

Method : 

Strain liquor from clams, add to B with boiling water. Simmer 
until potatoes are tender, add A, boil 3 minutes. Add C. 



1 68 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Oyster Broth 

Ingredients : 

i c. oysters \ tsp. salt 

\\ c. milk pepper 

i^ tbsp. water i tbsp. butter 

Method : 

Scald milk. Heat oysters in water until plump. Add milk and 
seasonings. 

Oyster Stew 

Ingredients : 

i pt. oysters i pt. thin white sauce 

. 

Method : 

Heat the oysters in their own liquor or sufficient water until the 
edges curl. 

Add cooked oysters to white sauce just before serving. 



Oyster Cocktail 

Ingredients : 

i tsp. grated horseradish 2 tbsp. tomato catsup 

6-8 drops tabasco sauce \ tsp. salt 

\ tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

Method : 

Serve in glasses or in halves of grapefruit. 



Fried Oysters 

Ingredients : 

2 doz. large oysters i| c. grated crumbs 

i egg and i tbsp. water salt, pepper 

Method : 

Drain oysters, wash, dry, and season with, salt and pepper. 
Crumb, egg and crumb oysters, and fry in deep fat. 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 169 

Pigs in Blankets or Oysters in Bacon 

Ingredients : 

i doz. oysters 4 slices toast 

i doz. slices bacon 
Method : 

Drain oysters, wash, dry, and roll each in bacon. Fasten with 
skewer. Cook in hot omelet pan until slightly crisp and brown. 
Remove skewer and serve on toast. 

Oyster Fricassee 

Ingredients : 

1 c. butter paprika 

2 tsp. salt pepper 

2 qts. oysters 
Method : 

Place butter, salt, and pepper in a saucepan, and when hot, add 
oysters. Cover and shake until oysters are plump. Drain and add 
cream to the liquid to make 2 c. 

Make sauce of the 2 c. liquid 2 tsp. lemon juice 

j c. butter 2 eggs 

| c. flour 

Add oysters. Serve on toast. 

Lobsters 

Directions : 

Lobsters should be bought alive. Small ones, heavy for their size, 
are best. If they are bought after being cooked, the tail should 
spring back quickly when straightened, otherwise the lobster was 
dead before being cooked. 

Cook 15-30 minutes below boiling point. When done, place in 
cold water. If cooked too long, they become tough. 

Break off the claws, separate tail from body and body from shell. 
Save the coral. Crush the tail by pressing the sides together, then 
pull or cut it open on the under side and take out the meat in one 
piece. Remove the intestine which runs the entire length. Break 
off the tail from the body before picking the meat from the joints. 



1 70 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

The gills, the stomach, and the intestines are the only parts not eaten. 
The liver may or may not be eaten. Break the body in the middle 
lengthwise and pick the meat from the joints. Pound the claws 
carefully so that the meat may be removed without being crushed. 
The meat should not be kept more than 18 hours after it is cooked. 
Season with salt and cayenne, pack in a covered jar, and place on 
ice. If French dressing is to be used, omit salt and cayenne from the 
recipe. 

If it is desired to save the tail for serving the salad, break it on the 
inside. 

Lobster Newburg 

Ingredients : 

2 c. lobster meat nutmeg 

2 tbsp. butter \ c. sherry 

| tsp. salt 2 tbsp. brandy 

cayenne ^ c. thin cream 

3 egg yolks 
Method : 

Melt butter, add lobster meat, and cook 3 minutes. Add cream 
and egg yolks slightly beaten. Stir the mixture until thickened, over 
hot water. Add wine and serve. 



Devilled Crabs 

Ingredients : 

6 crabs | tsp. mustard i tbsp. lemon juice 

2 tbsp. butter 2 drops tabasco sauce i tsp. parsley 

2 tbsp. flour | tsp. salt \ tsp. Worcestershire sauce 

cayenne i| c. cream 

Method : 

Cook crabs in boiling water (salted) for 20 minutes. Place in cold 
water for a few minutes. Pick out the meat, being careful not to 
break the shell. Make a sauce of the remaining ingredients, season 
highly, and add crab meat to it. If the mixture is too stiff, add milk 
or cream to make the right consistency. Wash and scrub the upper 
shell and fill with the mixture. Cover with buttered crumbs and 
bake from 15-20 minutes, or until brown. 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 171 

Soft-shell Crabs 

Method: 

Lift each point of the back shell and remove the spongy substance 
found beneath it. Turn the crab on its back and remove the semi- 
circular piece of dark, soft shell called the " apron," and the spongy 
substance under it. Wash and dry. Proceed as for Fried Oysters. 

REFERENCES 
Fish 

ATWATER and BRYANT. The Composition of American Food Mate- 
rials. United States Department of Agriculture, Office of 
Experiment Stations, Bulletin 28 (Revised). 

GREEN. How to Cook Fish. 

GREEN. How to Cook Shellfish. 

LANGWORTHY. Fish as Food. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Farmers' Bulletin 85 (Revised 1907). 

MILNER. Digestibility of Fish and Poultry. Storrs (Conn.) Agri- 
cultural Experiment Station, Seventeenth Annual Report, 
pages 116-142 (1905). 

PRESCOTT and WINSLOW. Elements of Water Bacteriology. 

SHERMAN. Food Products. 

THOMPSON. Practical Dietetics. 

United States Bureau of Fisheries. Reports and Bulletins. 

WILEY. Foods and their Adulterations. 



CHAPTER XII 
FLOUR MIXTURES 

FLOUR mixtures are taken to mean food materials in which 
the basis is flour to which is added liquid, and a leaven ; sugar, 
butter, and various fruits or condiments may be added also. 
These mixtures are baked, fried, or steamed. The composition 
and nutritive value of a flour mixture naturally varies with the 
ingredients. No general statements need be attempted, but 
the student should work out the food values of as many of the 
products as time permits. See also A Laboratory Manual for 
Dietetics, Mrs. Mary S. Rose, and Bulletin 28, of the Office of 
Experiment Stations, United States Department of Agriculture. 

For the purposes of this book it seems best to take up the 
experiments on Flour Mixtures as a connected group, while a 
division is made in the recipes. 

FLOUR EXPERIMENTS 

143. - To j c. bread flour in a bowl, add just enough cold water 
to make a stiff dough. Knead with a wooden spoon or the fingers 
for 5 minutes. Cover the bowl with a cheesecloth and allow it 
to stand for 30 minutes so that the water may develop the full amount 
of gluten. 1 

After the dough has stood for 30 minutes, add sufficient cold water 
to cover the mixture and knead the mass gently but thoroughly in 
the bowl. 

1 At least four different kinds of protein can be isolated, but the most important 
for us to take account of are gliadin, and glutenin, the essential constituents of 
" gluten." 

172 



FLOUR MIXTURES 173 

a. Notice the milky color of the water as soon as the 
kneading begins. 

b. To what is the milky color due ? 

c. Determine by the iodine test, page 13. 

144. - - Continue kneading the mass, changing the water fre- 
quently until it no longer shows the milky color. 

The resultant mass is gluten. Notice the stringy, elastic character. 

Notice the color. 

Save for subsequent experiments. 

NOTE : Perhaps some of the class have made "gum" by chewing wheat grain 
and remember the sticky, elastic mass with sweetish taste which results. 

145. - To small portions of the washed gluten, apply the following 

tests : 

a. Xanthoproteic, page 85. 

b. Iodine, page 13. 

c. Fehling-Benedict, page 13. 

146. - - Burn a small portion ; an odor as of burning wool or feathers 
is noticed. 

What material burns with such an odor ? 

147. - - Dry a small piece of gluten with a cheesecloth. 
Place it on an ungreased pan and bake it in a hot oven. 

The mass will expand, but, on removing from the oven, will contract. 
What causes it to change shape ? 
How can it expand and contract without cracking? 
To which class of foodstuffs does gluten belong? What are its 
physical characteristics? 

148. To give the class a more comprehensive idea of gluten, the 
instructor should contrast the following by preparing gluten or 
attempting to prepare gluten : 

a. pastry flour d. graham flour 

b. rye flour e. corn meal 

c. entire wheat 

NOTE : These experiments should demonstrate to the class the reasons for 
the thorough kneading of breads as contrasted with the slight 
beating of cake after the flour has been added. 



174 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Bread 

149. Make a microscopic examination of bread and pastry flour in : 

a. A drop of cold water. 

b. A drop of dilute iodine. 

Describe your observations. 

150. - - Do the same with rye and corn meal. 

151. - - Apply the iodine and Millon tests to small pieces of both 
the crust and the soft inner portions of a piece of bread. 

What do you notice as to the intensity of color and quickness of 
reaction ? 

152. -- a. Separate the crust and softer part. Put each, broken 
into small pieces, into a small beaker of cold water. Let stand 30 
minutes and then filter through a wet fluted filter. 

b. To the filtered extract from each beaker, apply the 
following tests : 

Iodine, page 13. 
Fehling-Benedict, page 13. 
Biuret, page 85. 
Xanthoproteic, page 85. 

c. After performing b, what are your conclusions? 

153. - The instructor will be able to amplify the experiment by 
repeating 151 and 152 with portions of the following food materials : 

a. plain muffin c. soda cracker. 

b. plain cake. d. uneeda biscuit. 

Review the experiment with dextrin (page 61). 

Muffins 

154. - - Use recipe for plain muffins. Combine ingredients in the 
following manner and bake samples at the following temperatures : l 

1 These temperatures are suggested by Miss Van Arsdale in the Bulletin, Some 
Attempts to Standardize Oven Temperatures for Cookery Processes. Note which 
range in temperature approximated a satisfactory result. Take the most satis- 
factory range and again bake muffins, using the selected temperatures as a starting 
point from which to formulate a range in temperature which produces desirable 
results. What conditions influence the production of muffins and necessitate a 
graduation in temperature ? 



FLOUR MIXTURES 175 







250-350 
350-400 F. 

400-450 F. 
450-550 F. 

In all the experiments with Flour Mixtures use the temperatures 
stated above as a starting point from which to make your own tem- 
peratures. 

a. Sugar, unbeaten egg, melted shortening, dry ingredients, 
liquid. Mix thoroughly. 

b. Sugar, egg beaten with Dover egg beater, dry ingre- 
dients, liquid, melted shortening, no extra mixing. 

c. Shortening creamed, yolk of egg, sugar, \ liquid, dry 
ingredients, \ liquid, stiffly beaten whites of eggs folded in. 

d. Dry ingredients, chop in shortening, sugar, liquid, un- 
beaten eggs. 

e. Compare results as to texture, flavor, crust, excess fat. 

155. - - Use recipe for Plain Muffins. Combine ingredients as above. 
Other ingredients being alike in each case, use for shortening the 

following : 

a. butter 

b. \ butter, \ lard 

c. lard 

d. oleomargarine 

e. crisco 
/. corn oil 

g. pure cottonseed oil 
h. cheese 

156. - - As in Expt. 155, except as follows : 
Use for liquid the following : 

a. sweet milk 

b. sour milk 

c. buttermilk 

d. condensed milk (diluted) 

e. milk powder (liquefied) 
/. | milk, | water. 

g. water. 



176 . LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

157. - - As before, except as follows : 

Use for leaven the following (calculate the amount of leaven re- 
quired in each case) : 

a. soda and cream of tartar 

b. soda and sour milk 

c. alum baking powder 

d. phosphate baking powder 

e. yeast 

In each Expt. (155-157) 

a. Compare the practical use of the variations in ingredients. 

b. Compare approximate differences in cost in variations. 

c. Conclusions. 

Biscuits 

158. - - Use recipe for Baking Powder Biscuits. Combine ingredi- 
ents in the following manner : 

a. Dry ingredients, shortening chopped in, liquid. Mix 
with a knife just enough to combine the ingredients. Turn the dough 
on a slightly floured board and roll it out, cut (see Expt. 159), and bake. 

b. Dry ingredients, liquid, melted shortening stirred into 
mixture with a spoon. Turn it on a slightly floured board, roll, cut 
out (see Expt. 159), and bake. 

159. --Divide biscuits cut out in Expt. 158 into three parts, ai, 0.2, 
03; bi, b2, 63. Brush ai and bi with a little milk before baking. 
Brush 2 and b2 with a little melted butter before baking. Bake 
03 and 3 as cut out. Compare results. 

160. - - Use recipe for Baking Powder Biscuits. 
Substitute for butter the following shortenings : 

a. | butter, \ lard /. chicken fat 

b. oleomargarine g. olive oil 

c. lard h. cottonseed oil 

d. crisco i. corn oil 

e. beef drippings j. peanut oil 

Compare the results as to appearance, flavor, texture. 

161. - - Compute the cost of the products of Expt. 160 and compare 
with the rating as to quality. 



FLOUR MIXTURES 177 

Pastry 

162. - - Use recipe for plain paste. Combine ingredients in the 
following manner : 

a. Dry ingredients, shortening chopped in, ice water. 
Chill before rolling out. 

b. Dry ingredients and ice water made into a dough. Roll 
mixture on a pastry cloth. Fold and roll the shortening in. 

c. Dry ingredients and melted shortening mixed as much 
as possible. Chill, chop mixture into uncombined flour. Add ice 
water. 

NOTE : An interesting observation can be made from the following experi- 
ment : 

Dry ingredients, measured and melted shortening, versus dry ingre- 
dients, melted and measured shortening. 

163. - - From the results of Expt. 162 decide upon the best method 
of combining ingredients and bake the following pies in this manner : 

Pastry shell : 

a. dredge with flour --apple pie. 

b. brush over with white of egg custard pie. 

c. bake before filling --cream pie. 

Sum up your observations concerning shortenings used in pastry, 
methods of combining, and baking of pies. 

Cake 

164. - - Note that the general rule for plain cake conforms to these 
proportions : 

| as much shortening as sugar. 

| as much liquid as flour. 

2 tsp. of baking powder to each cup of flour, but for every egg after 
the first, ^ tsp. of baking powder is deducted. 

Combine the ingredients for plain cake in the following ways. 
Bake the products at the same temperature : 

a. Cream the butter, add sugar, whole eggs unbeaten, milk, 
sifted dry ingredients. 

b. Cream the butter, add unbeaten egg yolk, sugar, milk, 
sifted dry ingredients, beaten egg white. 

N 



178 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

c. Egg yolk, sugar, milk, sifted dry ingredients, melted 
butter, beaten egg white. 

d. Cream the butter, add sugar, beaten egg yolk, milk and 
dry ingredients alternately, beaten egg whites. 

165. - - Repeat Expt. 164, substituting for butter the following : 

a. % butter, ^ crisco 

b. \ butter, \ lard 

c. oleomargarine 

d. crisco 

e. cottonseed oil 
/. corn oil 

g. chicken fat 

166. - - a. Use the rule for plain cake, and prepare three cakes, 
using for shortening, butter, oleo, crisco. 

b. Divide each rule into 5 parts A, B, C, D, E. Bake A 
in a slow oven; record temperature. Bake B in a moderate oven; 
record temperature. Bake C in a slow oven, increasing the tempera- 
ture ; record stages and changes in temperature. 

Bake D in a hot oven, reducing the temperature ; record tempera- 
tures and changes at each stage. Bake E in a cold oven, that is, 
light the burners when the cake is placed in the oven. Summarize 
results. 

Record the optimum method of combination of ingredients and 
oven temperature for each fat used in cake baking. 

167. - - a. Add chocolate to plain cake recipe. Determine the 
amount necessary. What change in the amount of flour is necessary ? 

Why? 

b. Add nuts to plain cake recipe. Compare with plain 

cake. What change in the recipe is necessary? Why? 

168. - - a. Cake without butter : compare the recipe for butter 
cake with that for sponge cake. Note the absence of butter in the 
latter and also the greater number of eggs. Review the experiments 
with eggs and recall the effect of various temperatures in the cooking 
of eggs. Review the oven temperatures given by Miss Van Arsdale 



FLOUR MIXTURES 179 

in Some Attempts to Standardize Oven Temperatures, and compare with 
those determined in preceding experiments with butter cake. Se- 
lect the range in each instance which corresponds to " slow " and 
" moderate." Prepare one rule of sponge cake (use first recipe) and 
bake samples at those temperatures. Compare as to moisture, 
texture, and length of cooking. 

b. Repeat the above experiment, using any sponge cake 
recipe calling for a large number of eggs. In what way do the re- 
sults differ from those in the preceding one? How do you account 
for these differences? 

c. Repeat, using the first recipe for white sponge cake or 
angel cake. Compare the results with those in a and b. Account 
for fhe differences noted. What is a satisfactory range in oven tem- 
peratures for each type of cake? 

d. Having determined the oven temperature in the above 
experiments, prepare three sponge cakes, combining the ingredients 
in the following manner : 

Beat yolks with Dover egg beater. Add the sugar. 
Dover egg beater. 



Beat whites 



silver fork. 



wire whisk. 
Fold in the whites before the flour. 
Fold in the whites after the flour. 
Stir in the whites after the flour. 

Bake and compare as to texture. Which method seems most 
satisfactory ? 

NOTE : This experiment can be successfully carried out if arranged so that 
samples of a, b, and c are baked together at the various tempera- 
tures. Comparison is thus made easy. 

Leavens - - Leavening Agents 

A leaven or leavening agent is something which will lighten 
a mixture. Flour mixtures are usually leavened by steam, by 
evolution of carbon dioxide, or by the expansion of inclosed 
and heated air. White of egg or cream may be said to be 
" leavened ' when " whipped," in which case the leavening 



180 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

consists simply in the mechanical incorporation of air bubbles. 
In some bakeries (especially in England) dough is leavened by 
incorporating air under pressure, which when the pressure is 
released will expand even without application of heat. 

When leavening is to be accomplished by means of carbon 
dioxide the latter is usually produced either : 

(1) by yeast fermentation, producing carbon dioxide from 
a portion of the carbohydrate of the mixture ; 

(2) by interaction of sodium bicarbonate (" cooking soda ") 
with an acid substance (either free acid or acid salt) in the 
presence of moisture. 

Sour milk, buttermilk, vinegar, molasses, and some fruit juices 
contain free acids. 

Many fruit juices contain acid salts. 

Acid salts used as such to liberate carbon dioxide from sodium 
bicarbonate - - in other words used as the " acid constituent ' 
of baking powders - - are chiefly : (a) acid potassium tartrate 
(cream of tartar), (b) acid phosphate, (c) some form of alum or 
aluminum sulphate ; hence the classification of baking powders 
in three main groups - - the " tartrate," the " phosphate," and 
the " alum " powders. 

EXPERIMENTS WITH LEAVENS AND LEAVENING 

AGENTS 
Egg, air, steam 

169. - - Measure the unbeaten white of an egg in a tablespoon. 
Beat with a Dover egg beater and measure in a tablespoon. Result? 

170. - - Whip an unbeaten egg white with a wire whisk. What 
is the difference in volume? To what is this due? Notice the dif- 
ference in size of air spaces where Dover beater is used as compared 
with wire whisk. 

171. - - Perform 169 and 170 each with an egg yolk. 
Why is the increase in volume less noticeable ? 



FLOUR MIXTURES 181 

What is the marked difference in the composition of the egg yolk 
as compared with the egg white? 

172. - - a. Use the unbeaten egg to make popovers. 

b. Use the beaten egg to make sponge cake. 

c. Use the whipped egg to make Foamy Omelet. Compare 
texture of each product. Explain. 

d. Which egg white at time of using contains most water? 

Sodium bicarbonate 

173. - - Have ready for this and the succeeding experiments, the 

following : 

baking soda molasses 

cream of tartar chocolate 

lemon juice coffee 

vinegar hot water 

sour milk tomato 

limewater 

Test with litmus and record reaction of each. 

174. - - Carbon dioxide precipitates the lime in a solution of lime 
and water. This can be shown by breathing through a tube, one end 
of which is immersed in a beaker of limewater. The white, chalky 
deposit which soon appears on the bottom of the beaker is carbonate 
of lime from the lime of solution and the carbon dioxide of the breath. 

175. - - Arrange 9 test tubes with perforated corks or rubber stop- 
pers fitted with a bent tube to conduct gas from test tube into beaker 
of limewater. 

In each dry test tube put \ tsp. dry baking soda. Arrange per- 
forated corks or stoppers with bent tube and have ready to adjust 
at once and conduct the gas given off into limewater (equal volume 
in each beaker). 

When all is ready, put i tbsp. of an acid or hot water respectively 
into a test tube until all have been used. Several phenomena will 
be observed. 

Note the evolution of gas, rapidity with which given off, compara- 
tive amount of carbonate of lime deposited. Conclude the corre- 
sponding amount of carbon dioxide given off. 

Tabulate and compare the results. 



182 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

176. - - If the facilities of the chemical laboratory are available, 
make the experiment with cream of tartar quantitatively, using pure 
substances. 

177. - - In the experiment with cream of tartar, it will be neces- 
sary to add water before the action will take place. 

What does this explain in regard to baking powder? 
Why is corn starch or flour used in the manufacture of baking 
powder ? 

178. - Test | tsp. of baking powder with i tbsp. hot water. As- 
suming that the baking powder is a mixture of sodium bicarbonate and 
an acid salt, can you determine the nature of the latter by chemical 
analysis ? 

179. Prepare baking powder according to the following proportion : 

| Ib. cream tartar 
\ Ib. baking soda 
\ Ib. corn starch 
Sift six times 

Yeasts 

180. - - Fermentation of molasses. Into a common test tube or 
any glass vial, place a solution made by mixing one spoonful of 
molasses with ten spoonfuls of water. Rub up a little compressed 
yeast in water and put a few drops into the tube of molasses water. 
Set aside in a warm place and let it stand for about 24 hours. At 
the end of this time a vigorous fermentation will be seen. The liquid 
will have become somewhat cloudy, numerous bubbles can be seen 
rising through it, a froth forms on top, and a mass of sediment soon 
collects at the bottom. The bubbles are the carbon dioxide which 
is escaping into the air ; the sediment at the bottom is the growing 
mass of yeast, and the alcohol, which looks like water, is dissolved 
in the liquid and is, of course, invisible. 

181. - - Proof of the nature of the gas. Prepare two tubes. 
In tube A place molasses and water inoculated with several drops 
of yeast, as in the last experiment. Put the cork in place and insert 
the other end of the tube into a second tube underneath the surface 
of some clear limewater. Set aside in a warm place until vigorous 



FLOUR MIXTURES 183 

fermentation occurs. Note the bubbles of gas that arise from the fer- 
menting tube and bubble up through the limewater. The limewater 
soon becomes turbid, showing that the gas contains carbon dioxide. 

182. Rub a bit of yeast cake in a little water so as to make a 
slightly cloudy solution. Place a drop of the solution upon a micro- 
scope slide, cover with a cover glass, and examine first with a f-inch 
objective. Note that the water seems to be filled with very minute 
dots. Study with a higher power (^ in. objective). Examine the 
yeast cells, noting the shape and comparative size. 

183. Growing yeast. With a glass rod, remove a drop of the 
sediment from growing yeast prepared as in Expt. 180. Place the 
drop on a slide, cover with a cover glass, and study as in the previous 
case. Remove some of the yeast found floating on the surface and 
study in the same way. Note that the yeast cells are in groups. 
Make a sketch of several groups, showing buds of various sizes. Note 
any other differences you can see between this growing yeast and the 
compressed yeast cake. 

184. - - Effect of boiling. Prepare two test tubes of molasses and 
water and inoculate each with a drop of yeast. Plug with cotton. 
Place one test tube in water and boil for ten minutes, and then leave 
both test tubes side by side in a warm place for two days, and deter- 
mine whether the boiling has been sufficient to kill the yeast. 

185. - - Wild yeast. Prepare several test tubes of molasses and 
water as described and without plugging with cotton leave exposed 
in various places for two or three days. Determine by the appear- 
ance of bubbles whether fermentation occurs. If any change takes 
place in the liquids, examine with a microscope to determine whether 
yeasts have found entrance from the air or whether some other micro- 
organisms are growing in the solutions. Commonly, bacteria will be 
found more abundant than yeasts. 

186. - - Effect of age on yeast. Obtain an old sample of dried 
yeast cake. Prepare two tubes of molasses and water and inocu- 
late one with a small quantity of the old yeast cake and two others 
with a similar quantity of a fresh cake. Set aside in a warm place 
and determine in which fermentation starts sooner, and in which it 



1 84 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

is the more vigorous. Examine with a microscope after fermenta- 
tion begins, to see if either contains other organisms besides yeast. 

187. - - Action of yeast on bread. Mix up a little flour and water 
to about the consistency of dough for bread making and divide into 
three lots, A, B, and C. Into A and B place a little compressed 
yeast. A and B are then to be placed in a warm place for five or six 
hours, while C, without the yeast, is to be baked at once. After A 
and B have risen under the influence of the yeast, bake B at once in 
the oven, while A is to be thoroughly kneaded and then baked. 
Compare the results of A, B, and C, noticing the difference in the 
textures of the bread. 

188. - - Over raising. Mix another lot of dough with yeast in the 
same way and allow it to rise in a warm place for twelve hours or 
more. Test with litmus paper to see if it is acid. Bake and taste to 
see if it has become sour. 

189. -- Repeat Expt. 187, comparing cold milk, scalded milk, 
and water as the liquid to be used in the dough. Note which 
dough sours first. 

190. - - Bread raised by wild yeast. Put a small amount of salt 
in a little milk and then allow it to stand in a warm place until a 
froth appears. Mix it with flour to make a dough and set aside to 
rise. Does the dough rise as rapidly and as satisfactorily as when 
yeast is used? Does the baked dough have the same taste? 

191. - - Kumiss. Into a quart of milk, put two tbsp. of granu- 
lated sugar and add about ^ of a compressed yeast cake. Put in a 
warm place and leave for 24 hours. Cool and taste. This will be 
kumiss or fermented milk. Is it sour? 

192. - - Prepare equal weights of the following sugars : 

a. sucrose d. glucose 

b. maltose e. levulose 

c. lactose 

Dissolve each in small equal quantities of distilled water. (These 
solutions are for the next experiment.) Note any changes in appear- 
ance which may occur, and the rapidity with which each sugar 



FLOUR MIXTURES 185 

dissolves. Using a small measured fraction of each solution can you 
detect any difference in sweetness? 

193. - - a. Prepare small, equal weights of compressed yeast cake 
and mix one portion with each sugar solution. Turn the mixture 
into fermentation tubes and allow them to stand in a uniformly warm 
place. 

b. Note in which tube fermentation begins and the rapidity 
with which it proceeds. 

c. Compare the volume of gas collected during a unit 
length of time. 

d. What do you conclude as to the relative fermentative 
qualities of the sugars used ? 

e. Of what significance is this? 

Flour Mixtures (Common designations) 

Biscuits Doughnuts 

Muffins Waffles 

Bread Griddlecakes 

Rolls Timbales 

Cookies Fillings and frostings 

Cakes Pastry 
Fillings for pie 

Classification of Flour Mixtures 

Batters - - beaten. 

Doughs mixed with knife or kneaded and rolled out. 

Proportion of Liquid to Flour 

Thin Batters Thick Batters 

i-i 1-2 

Griddlecakes Cake 

Waffles Suet puddings 

Fritters Emergency biscuit 

Popovers Muffins 

Dropped cookies 



l86 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Soft Dough Stiff Dough 

1-3 1-4 

Biscuit Pastry 

Crullers Rolled cookies 

Bread 
Rolls 

Flour Mixtures 

Essential Ingredients : Non-essential Ingredients : 

Flour Eggs 

Liquid Sweetening 

Leavening agent Shortening 

Salt Flavoring 

Function of: 

Flour : to give substance or body. 
Liquid : to hold dry ingredients together. 

Milk Eggs 

Water Coffee 

Molasses Cocoa 

Wine Brandy 

Leavening agent : to produce a gas which separates the particles, and 
expands by the heat applied in baking, thus raising the mixture. 

Leavening Agents 

Baking powder 

Yeast 

Baking soda and an acid 

Salt : to increase palatability. 
Shortening : to make brittle by enriching. 

Butter Suet 

Oleomargarine Drippings 

Lard Chicken fat 

Crisco Refined oils 



FLOUR MIXTURES 187 

Sweetening : 

Sugar Molasses 

Brown sugar Karo 

Glucose 

Eggs: to moisten 
to thicken 
to leaven 
to flavor 

Flavoring: to increase palatability. 

Spices Fruit juices 

Extracts Fruit rinds 

Oven Temperature 

Biscuit, "hot" i F., l C. 

Bread, " hot " F., C. 

/ with butter " moderate " F., C. 

! \ without butter " cool " F., C. 

Cookies, " moderate " F., C. 

Muffins, " moderate " F., C. 

Pastry, " hot " F., C. 

Popovers, " very hot to moderate ' .... ' F., 3 C. 

Rolls, " hot to moderate " F., C. 

REFERENCES 

Flour and Bread 

ATWATER, H. W. Bread and Bread Making. United States De- 
partment of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 389 (1910). 

BEVIER. Some Points in the Making and Judging of Bread. Uni- 
versity of Illinois, Bulletin, vol. 10 (March 17, 1913). 

Bread Lesson. Demonstration. Iowa State College, Agricultural 
Department, Short Course Class Notes, No. i. 

Bulletin on Idaho Bread Contest Clubs. Idaho State Department 
of Public Instruction. 

CALVIN. Essentials of Bread Making. Oregon Agricultural College, 
Domestic Science and Art Project, Circular, No. 6. 

1 Supply temperatures found by experiment (see pages 174-179). 



1 88 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

GRANT. The Chemistry of Bread Making. 

HARCOURT and PURDY. Flour and Bread Making. Ontario Agri- 
cultural College, Department of Agriculture, Bulletin 180 (1910). 

HUNT. The Cereals in America. 

JAGO. The Technology of Bread Making. 

KOHMAN. Salt-raising Bread and Some Comparisons with Bread 
made with Yeast. Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chem- 
istry, vol. 4, pages 20-30, 100-106 (1912). 

LEACH. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

LECLERC and JACOBS. Graham Flour. United States Department 
of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 164 (1913). 

NEWANETAL. Some Experiments on the Relative Digestibility of 
White and Whole Meal Breads. Journal of Hygiene, vol. 12, 
pages 119-143 (1912). 

OSBORNE. The Proteins of the \Vheat Kernel. 

SHAW and GAUMNITZ. California White Wheats. Berkeley, Cali- 
fornia, Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 212 (1911). 

SIMMONS. Book of Bread. 

SNYDER. Studies in Bread and Breadmaking. Bulletins 67, 101, 
126 of the Office of Experiment Stations, United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture. 

SNYDER and WOODS. Wheat Flour and Bread. United States 
Department of Agriculture, Yearbook for 1903, pages 347-362. 

VAN ARSDALE. Some Attempts to Standardize Oven Temperatures 
for Cooking Processes. Teachers College Bulletin, Technical 
Series No. 8 (1914). 

WARDALL. Relation of Yeast to Flavor in Bread. Journal of Home 
Economics, vol. 2, pages 75-91 (1910). 

WILEY. Cereals and Cereal Products. Part 9 of Bulletin 13 of the 
Bureau of Chemistry, United States Department of Agriculture. 

WOODS and MERRILL. The Digestibility and Nutritive Value of 
Bread. Bulletins 85 and 143 of the Office of Experiment Sta- 
tions, Unite'd States Department of Agriculture. 



CHAPTER XIII 
BATTERS AND DOUGHS 

SELECT one of the following recipes for bread. Weigh each ingredient 
accurately (to the nearest gram). Weigh the finished product and 
calculate its food value and the weight and nutrients of the loo-calorie 
portion. Compare value and cost with those of cooked foods shown 
on pages 205 and 229. 

White Bread 

Quick Process 
Ingredients : 

3 c. flour i tsp. salt 

i c. milk or water i tbsp. butter 

i tsp. sugar i yeast cake 
Method : 

Scald the milk or boil the water, add to the salt, sugar, and butter 
and stir until dissolved. Cool until lukewarm, add yeast softened 
in \ c. lukewarm water. Add one half the flour, beat until smooth. 
Cover and set in pan of warm water until doubled in bulk. Add 
the remainder of the flour and mix well. Put on a lightly floured 
board and knead until smooth and elastic. Mold into a loaf, place 
in a well-greased pan, cover, and let double its bulk. Bake in a hot 
oven 40-60 minutes. 

Slow Process 

As for quick process bread with these exceptions : 
Use only | yeast cake. Add all the flour and knead once before 
setting to rise. Let rise overnight at room temperature instead of 
in a pan of warm water. In the morning knead, mold into loaves, and 
proceed as above. 

189 



1 90 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Graham Bread 

Ingredients : 

% c. scalded milk i c. lukewarm water 

\ c. water \ c. white flour 

i tsp. salt graham or entire wheat flour 

1 tbsp. butter 'to knead." The mixture 

2 tbsp. molasses should be easily handled 
f yeast cake but not hard and dry 

Nut Bread 

i c. chopped walnuts added after the first rising 

Gluten Bread 

Ingredients : 

\ c. scalded milk i tbsp. butter 

\ c. water \ yeast cake 

i tsp. salt i c. lukewarm water 

gluten flour " to knead ' 

BREADS WITHOUT YEAST 

Boston Brown Bread - - Steamed 

Ingredients : 

i c. rye meal if tsp. soda 

i c. corn meal i tsp. salt 

1 c. graham flour f c. molasses 

2 c. sour milk or if c. sweet milk 
Method : 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Combine molasses and milk and 
add to first mixture. Fill greased molds f full of the mixture. Steam 
3-4 hours. 

Brown Bread I - - Baked 

Ingredients : 

f c. molasses 3! c. graham flour 

2 c. sour milk i| tsp. baking powder 

3 eggs 2 tsp. baking soda 
2 tbsp. melted butter | tsp. salt 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 191 

Method : 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add slightly beaten eggs to the 
liquid ingredients and combine mixtures. Bake in a slow oven if 
hours. The batter should be a little thicker than for butter cakes. 



Brown Bread II 

Ingredients : 

\ c. sugar i tsp. salt 

\ c. molasses 2 c. graham flour 

2 c. sour milk if c. white flour 

2 tsp. soda i c. nut meats 

\ c. raisins 
Method : 

Let stand i hour in bread pan. Bake in a moderate oven 40-50 
minutes. 

Graham Bread 

Ingredients : 

2 c. buttermilk 2 c. white flour 

1 c. molasses if tsp. soda 

2 c. graham flour i tsp. salt 

Method : 

Let stand in bread pan 40 minutes. Bake in a moderate oven 45 
minutes. 

Nut Bread I 

Ingredients : 

2 eggs 4 c. white flour 

f c. sugar yf tsp. baking powder 

2 c. milk i tsp. salt 

i c. chopped walnut meats 
Method : 

Follow general directions for flour mixtures. Allow mixture 
to stand in the pan 20 minutes. Bake in a moderate oven 40-50 
minutes. 



1 92 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Nut Bread II 

Ingredients : 

| c. molasses 2 c. whole wheat flour 

f c. chopped walnuts i c. white flour 

i c. sour milk i^ tsp. soda 

i| tsp. salt 
Method : 

Follow general directions for flour mixtures. Bake in bread pan 
in a moderate oven 40-45 minutes. 

Nut Bread III 

Ingredients : 

i c. molasses i tsp. salt 

if c. water 2 tsp. baking powder 

4 c. graham flour f tsp. soda 

1 c. white flour 2 c. chopped walnuts 

Method : 

Follow directions for flour mixtures. Bake in bread pans in a 
moderate oven 35-40 minutes. 

ROLLS 

Parker House Rolls 

Ingredients : 

2 c. scalded milk i tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. butter i yeast cake dissolved in 

2 tbsp. sugar | c. lukewarm water 

flour 
Method : 

Add butter, sugar, and salt to milk ; when lukewarm, add softened 
yeast cake and three cups of flour. Beat, cover, and let rise until 
light ; cut down, and add enough flour to knead (it will take about 
two and one half cups). Let rise again, toss on slightly floured 
board, knead, pat, -and roll out to one third inch thickness. Shape 
with a biscuit cutter, first dipped in flour. 

Dip the handle of a case knife in flour, and with it make a crease 
through the middle of each piece ; brush over one half of each piece 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 193 

with melted butter, fold and press edges together. Place in greased 
pan, one inch apart, cover, let rise, and bake in hot oven 12 to 15 
minutes. As rolls rise they will part slightly and if hastened in 
rising are apt to lose their shape. 

NOTE : Parker House Rolls may be shaped by cutting or tearing off small 
pieces of dough and shaping round like a biscuit ; place in rows 
on floured board, cover and let rise 15 minutes. With the 
handle of large wooden spoon roll through center of each biscuit, 
brush edge of lower halves with melted butter, fold, press lightly, 
place in buttered pan one inch apart, cover, let rise and bake. 

Swedish Rolls 

Method : 

Prepare dough as for Parker House Rolls. When light, roll to 
\ inch thickness. Spread with melted butter, sprinkle with sugar, 
cinnamon, and currants, and roll as closely as possible. Cut into 
slices i inch thick, allow to become very light, glaze, and bake about 
20 minutes. 

Dorcas Rolls 

Ingredients : 

4 small potatoes 2 tbsp. sugar 

2 c. scalded milk 2 tsp. salt 

2 tsp. butter f yeast cake 

j c. lukewarm water 

Method : 

Add hot riced potatoes to the milk, butter, salt, and sugar, softened 
yeast, and flour to make a soft batter. Let rise and add flour enough 
to make a dough. Knead and allow to double in bulk, knead again 
and shape in balls. Place on a greased sheet ; let rise and bake 
15-20 minutes in a hot oven. 

Bread Sticks 

Ingredients : 

i c. milk i yeast cake softened in 

j c. butter | c. lukewarm water 

1 1 tbsp. sugar white of an egg 

\ tsp. salt 3! c. flour 
o 



IQ4 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Prepare as bread and add the beaten egg after the yeast. When 
ready to shape, cut off small pieces of dough. Shape as small bis- 
cuits and roll on an unfloured board with the hands until 8 inches in 
length, keeping uniform in size and having the ends rounded. Bring 
the fingers close to, but not over, the ends of the sticks. Let rise and 
bake in a hot oven 8-10 minutes. 



Hot Cross Buns 

Ingredients : 

1 c. milk f tsp. cinnamon 
j c. sugar 3 c. flour 

2 tbsp. butter i egg 

| tsp. salt ^ c. raisins 

\ yeast cake softened in \ c. currants 

| c. lukewarm water 

Method : 

Dissolve sugar, salt, and butter in the scalded milk ; when luke- 
warm, add dissolved yeast cake, cinnamon, flour and egg well beaten ; 
when thoroughly mixed, add raisins, cover, and let rise overnight. 
In the morning shape in form of large biscuits, let rise, brush with 
beaten egg and bake 20 minutes ; cool,, and make a cross on top of 
each with confectioners' frosting. 



Luncheon Rolls 

Ingredients : 

i c. milk i tsp. salt 

j c. sugar \ yeast cake 

i egg \ c. lukewarm water 

\ c. melted butter i^ c. flour 

Method : 

Prepare dough as for Parker House Rolls, adding the beaten egg 
before the flour. Shape in balls or oblongs, let rise and bake. 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 195 

Glaze for Rolls 

Glaze I Glaze II 

1 tsp. sugar yolk i egg 

2 tbsp. hot milk 2 tbsp. cold milk 

Apply before baking. Apply when half baked. 

SCORE CARD 

Bread 

REVISED SCORE CARD OF MISS BEVIER 1 

General appearance 20 

Size (5) 

Shape (5) 

Crust (10) 

Color 

Character 

Depth 

Flavor 35 

Odor 
Taste 

Lightness 15 

Texture 20 

Coarse fine 

Tough tender 

Moist dry 

Elastic or not 

Color 5 

Grain Distribution of gas 5 

100 
1 University of Illinois Bulletin, vol. 10, No. 25. (March, 1913.) 



196 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

SCORE CARD 

Raised Biscuits 

General appearance 20 

Size (5) 

Shape (5) 

Crust (10) 

Color 
Character 
Depth 

Flavor 35 

Taste 
Odor 

Lightness 15 

Crumb 30 

Texture (20) 

Color (5) 

Grain (5) 

100 

Baking Powder Biscuits 

General Rules. 

Sift flour before measuring. Sift again with the baking powder 
and salt. 

Cut in the fat with two knives. Butter, lard, crisco, drippings, or 
chicken fat may be used. Half butter and half lard is a good com- 
bination. 

Add the liquid quickly. Toss and roll lightly on a floured board 
to | inch in thickness. Cut, moisten tops with milk, and bake 12-15 
minutes in a hot oven. 

Wheat Biscuits Graham or Entire Wheat Biscuits 

Ingredients : Ingredients : 

2 c. flour i c. graham flour 

4 tsp. baking powder i c. flour 

^ tsp. salt 5 tsp. baking powder 

2 tbsp. fat ^ tsp. salt 

| c. milk 2 tbsp. fat 

f-i c. milk 
2 tbsp. sugar 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



197 



Cheese Biscuits 

Ingredients : 

2 c. flour 

4 tsp. baking powder 

\ tsp. salt 

i tbsp. fat 

f c. milk 

^ c. grated cheese 



Emergency Biscuit 

Ingredients : 

i c. milk 
2\ c. flour 

4 tsp. baking powder 
4 tbsp. shortening 
\ tsp. salt 

Mix as for baking powder bis- 
cuits but drop by spoonfuls on a 
greased pan. 



Corn Meal Biscuit Fruit Biscuit 

Same ingredients as Wheat Bis- Shape as Swedish Rolls. 
cuit, substituting corn meal for fore rolling spread with 



Be- 



\ the flour. After cutting, turn 
over as for Parker House Rolls. 



Ingredients: 

i c. bran 

i c. entire wheat flour 

\ c. molasses 



Bran Biscuit 



General appearance 
Size (5) 

Shape (5) 

Crust (10) 

Flavor 

Lightness .... 

Texture .... 
Coarse fine 
Tough tender 
Moist - - dry 

Color 

Grain 



\ tsp. salt 

\ 

SCORE CARD 

Baking Powder Biscuits 



f c. raisins 

| tsp. cinnamon 

2 tbsp. sugar 



i egg 

i c. milk 

\ tsp. baking soda 



20 



40 
10 
20 



5 

_S 

100 



198 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



FOOD VALUES 
Baking Powder Biscuit 













W 








_ > ^ Si 






a 
a 


H 

f - 


5 


tn 


H 

1 * 


CO 

.J W 




o 


I- 

& Oj en 


n 


MATERIAL 


01 


c 


* 
8g 


f- 
21 


S| 

JJJ 1 


gl 


i 


5 c " P 
" w: c a v- c 

S rt ca rt rt 

iJ bi 5 u 


Ij 




s, 


|o 


(2^ 


O 



pd 


H CJ 


u 


^^JO ojJO 




















CJ PnU 














CJ 




$ 


^^^ 


^^ 




Flour . 


2 C. 


222.4 


24.9 


2.2 


166.5 


786 


.018 


055 


393 


.0031 


Salt . . . 


|tsp. 




















Baking powder 


3 tsp. 


8 










.006 




i 




Butter . . . 


iMbsp. 19 


.19 


16.57 




150 


.015 


.005 


.006 




Milk . . . 


I C. 


202. 8 


6.68 


8.12 


9-79 


140 


.021 


.324 


.427 


.OC04 


Total, cooked] 


1 2 bis- 
cuits 


313 


31.78 


26.89 


176.31 


1076 


.06 


.384 


.826 * 


.0035 


loo-Calorie 


i bis- 




















Portion . 


cuit 


29.08 


2.9 


2.49 


15 


IOO 


.005 


034 


.074 1 


.0003 



GRIDDLECAKES AND WAFFLES 
(For General Method see below) 



Griddlecakes 
Sweet Milk 

Ingredients : 

1 c. flour 

2 tsp. baking powder 
| tsp. salt 

i tbsp. melted butter 

1 egg 

f c. milk 

Sour Milk 

Ingredients : 

i\ c. flour 
\ tsp. salt 

2 c. sour milk 
i \ tsp. soda 

i egg 



Waffles 
Sweet Milk 

Ingredients : 
if c. flour 

3 tsp. baking powder 
^ tsp. salt 

1 tbsp. melted butter 

2 eggs 

i c. milk 

Sour Milk 

Ingredients : 
ij c. flour 
^ tsp. soda 
| tsp. salt 

1 c. sour milk 

2 eggs 



2 tbsp. melted butter 

1 If a phosphate baking powder be used, the phosphorus content of the product 
will of course be much higher than is here shown. 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 199 

Corn Meal Corn Meal 

Ingredients : Ingredients : 

i c. corn meal \ c. corn meal 

i c. flour \\ c. boiling water 

4 tsp. baking powder i tsp. salt 

1 tsp. salt \\ c. milk 

4 tbsp. sugar 2 tbsp. sugar 

2 eggs 2 tbsp. melted butter 
i qt. scalded milk 2 c. flour 

Cook meal and milk 5 minutes 3 tsp. baking powder 

in a double boiler. 2 eggs 

Cook meal and water 20 
minutes in a double boiler. 

General Method 

General Rules for Mixing. 

Sift flour, and sift with salt, sugar, and baking powder. Separate 
eggs, beat yolks thoroughly, and add to the milk. Add the liquids to 
the dry ingredients. Add the melted butter and fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites of eggs. 

General Rules for Frying. 

Grease irons carefully with lard, crisco, or salt pork. Fry- mix- 
ture as soon as mixed. Serve immediately with butter and sirup or 
butter and powdered sugar. 

Griddlecakes. 

Drop mixture by spoonfuls on a hot griddle. When puffed, full 
of bubbles and cooked on edges, turn and brown the other side. 

Waffles. 

Put a tbsp. of mixture in each compartment near center of iron, 
cover, and mixture will spread to fill iron. Turn and brown other side. 

Swedish Timbale Cases 

Ingredients : 

f c. flour \ c. milk 

\ tsp. salt i egg 

\ tsp. olive oil 



200 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Sift flour and salt. Add slightly beaten egg and the milk. Beat 
until smooth. Add the olive oil. 

To make Timbale Cases 

Plain and fluted irons of various shapes mounted on a long handle 
are used for shaping Swedish Timbale Cases. 

To use : dip the iron into the hot fat, let stand two or three minutes, 
then drain and ,dip into the batter - - held in measuring cup - - to 
half an inch of the top of iron, return at once to the fat and hold 
there until the batter is crisp and lightly colored, then remove from 
the iron and turn upside down on soft paper to drain. If, on dipping 
the iron into the batter, the batter does not cling to it, the iron has 
not been heated enough. If the fat sizzles considerably and the 
case spreads out and drops from the iron, the mold is too hot. If the 
iron is lowered too far into the batter, the case will spread over the 
top of the iron and be troublesome to remove. The finished cases 
should be very crisp. A small, deep pan of fat gives best results. 

Fritters 

Ingredients : 

1 c. flour rind i lemon 

2 tbsp. sugar 2 eggs 

\ tsp. salt \ c. milk 

Method : 

Same as Muffins (page 202). 

Apple Fritters 

Method : 

Pare apples and cut in eighths, or pare, core, and cut in |-inch slices. 
Sprinkle with sugar, lemon juice, cinnamon, or nutmeg. Dip in 
batter and fry in deep fat. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve 
at once. 

Banana Fritters 

Method : 

Remove skins from bananas. Scrape. Cut in halves lengthwise 
and then cut in 2 pieces crosswise or in i-inch pieces. Sprinkle 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 2OI 

with powdered sugar and lemon juice and let stand half an hour. 
Drain. Dip in batter and fry in deep fat. Sprinkle with powdered 
sugar or serve with Grape or Currant Jelly. 

Pineapple Fritters 

Method : 

Drain sirup from canned pineapple. Cut in pieces ; dip in batter 
and fry in deep fat. 

Doughnuts I 

Ingredients : 

2 tsp. butter i c. flour 

\ c. sugar \ tsp. salt 

1 egg f tsp. baking powder 

2 tbsp. milk | tsp. cinnamon 

Doughnuts II 

3 eggs 5 c. flour 

i c. sugar 2 tsp. cream of tartar 

i c. milk i tsp. soda 

| tsp. nutmeg or mace i tsp. salt 

Method : 

Same as for cookies. The dough should be as soft as can be handled. 
Roll to | inch in thickness, cut in rings and fry in hot fat until golden 
brown. Turn often in the fat. Drain, cool, and sugar by shaking in 
a paper bag which contains a small amount of powdered sugar. 

Comforts 

Ingredients : 

1 c. milk i c. sugar 

2 eggs 2 1 c. flour 

i c. raisins 3 tsp. baking powder 

i tsp. salt 

Method : 

Same as doughnuts. The mixture is a batter. Drop from spoon 
into hot fat ; fry a light brown. Drain and sugar. 



202 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Muffins 
General Rules : 

Sift flour before measuring. Sift again with baking powder, salt, 
and sugar. Beat eggs slightly, add the milk and pour this mixture 
gradually into the dry ingredients. Add the melted butter. Bake 
in greased muffin tin in a moderate oven 20-25 minutes. 



One-egg Muffins 

Ingredients : 

2 c. flour 2 tbsp. sugar 

4 tsp. baking powder i c. milk 

^ tsp. salt 2 tbsp. melted butter 

i egg 



Wheat Muffins 

Ingredients : 

2 c. flour i c. milk 

2 tsp. baking powder 2 tbsp. melted butter 

| tsp. salt 2 eggs 



Entire Wheat or Graham Muffins 

Ingredients : 

i c. graham flour i tbsp. sugar 

i c. flour i egg 

3 tsp. baking powder i c. milk 

i tsp. salt 2 tbsp. melted butter 



Corn Meal Muffins 

Ingredients : 

i c. flour | tsp. salt 

1 c. corn meal i egg 

2 tbsp. sugar i c. milk 

4 tsp. baking powder 2 tbsp. melted butter 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 203 

Berkshire Muffins 

Ingredients : 

\ c. corn meal | Let stand 2 tbsp. sugar 

1 c. scalded milk / 5 minutes \ tsp. salt 
\ c. cooked rice i egg 

\ c. flour 3 tsp. baking powder 2 tbsp. melted butter 

Bran Muffins 

Ingredients : 

2 c. bran i tsp. soda 3 tbsp. molasses 
i c. flour ^ c. butter i^ c. sour milk 

Method : 

Rub butter into the dry ingredients. Add the liquids. Bake in 
a. hot oven. 

Bran Muffins with Corn 

Ingredients : 

i c. corn meal i egg 

i c. white flour i^ c. milk 

1 c. bran 2 tbsp. molasses 

2 tbsp. melted butter i tsp. salt 

i tsp. soda 1 ... 

> or 2 k tsp. baking powder 

3 tsp. cream tartar J 

Rice Muffins 

Ingredients : 

3 c. flour i^ c. milk 

1 c. cooked rice i egg 

2 tbsp. baking powder 3 tbsp. melted butter 

3 tbsp. sugar f tsp. salt 

Combine the rice and milk. 

Hominy Sticks 

Ingredients : 

i c. corn meal \ c. hot cooked hominy or rice 

f c. flour \ c. melted butter 

3 tsp. baking powder i c. milk 

\ tsp. salt i egg 

Method : 

Bake in Bread Stick pans. 



204 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Blueberry Muffins 

Ingredients : 

| c. butter 2 c. flour 

\ c. sugar i tsp. baking powder 

i egg i c. blueberries 

| c. milk 

Method : 

Fold in the blueberries last. 

Southern Pone 

Ingredients : 

1 c. corn meal 2 eggs 

2 c. milk 3 tbsp. butter 

1 tsp. salt i tsp. baking powder 

Method : 

Scald milk and add gradually the meal, salt, and butter. Cool 
slightly and add eggs, well beaten, and the baking powder. Turn 
into a buttered, earthen dish and bake in a moderate oven 35 min- 
utes. Cut in pie-shaped pieces for serving. 

Southern Spoon Corn Bread 

Ingredients : 

2 c. white corn meal yolks 2 eggs 
i\ c. boiling water whites 2 eggs 
i\ tbsp. melted butter \\ c. buttermilk 

i \ tsp. salt i tsp. baking soda 

Method : 

Add meal gradually to the boiling water and let cool. Add butter, 
salt, egg yolks slightly beaten, and buttermilk mixed with soda. 
Beat 2 minutes and fold in whites of eggs beaten until stiff. Turn 
into a buttered earthen dish and bake in hot oven 40 minutes. Serve 
at breakfast. Eat with spoon. 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



205 



SCORE CARD 

Muffins 



General Appearance 
Size (5) 

Shape (10) 

Crust (10) 

Color 
Character 
Depth 

Flavor 

Taste 
Odor 

Texture .... 
Lightness (10) 
Tenderness (10) 
Grain (10) 

Color 



35 



10 



100 



FOOD VALUES 
Muffins 













w 






















H 






O 


M o 




MATERIAL 


w 
(/} 

w 


H . 

3 ? 


'ROTEIN 

Grams 


en 


3OHYDR/ 

Grams 


TOTAL 

ALORIES 


H 
O 

O 


a d 

i^i 


o^c 

HH [/} C 


tn 

JJ 




p^ 


>^ 


fin 




r** 

K 


u 




CJ"^ 


H"3 




















o 
















U 




$ 




' 




Flour . . . 


I C. 


III. 2 


12-45 


I. II 


83.28 


393 


.0098 


.027 


.196 


.0015 


Sugar . 


i tsp. 


4.8 






4.8 


19 


.0007 








Butter . . . 


i tbsp. 


14 


14 


II.9 




108 


.0106 


.003 


.OO4 




Milk . . . 


I c. 


122 


4.O2 


4.88 


6.1 


84 


.OII2 


193 


255 


.OOO2 


Baking powder 


2 tsp. 


7-7 










.003 




1 




Egg. 


I 


45-3 


6.O7 


4-75 




67 


03 


.040 


.l6l 


.OOI2 


Total, cooked 


6 


242.2 


22.68 


22.64 


94-18 


671 


0653 


.264 


.615 1 


.OO29 


i oo- Calorie 






















Portion . 


i 


35-08 


3.37 


3-3'7 


14.04 


IOO 


.009 


.036 


.086 ! 


.OOO4 



1 See footnote, p. 198. 



206 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Popovers 

Ingredients : 

i c. flour | c. milk 

| tsp. salt 1-2 eggs 

\ tsp. melted butter (may be omitted) 

Method : 

Mix salt and flour, sift into bowl. Make an indentation in flour 
and drop in the unbeaten egg. Add the milk gradually, stirring in 
widening circles from the middle. If a little lumpy, beat for a minute 
with a Dover egg beater. Turn into hot buttered custard cups or 
gem pans. Bake in a hot oven. Have the oven very hot for the 
first 15 minutes, then reduce temperature and continue baking 30 
to 35 minutes longer. 



Graham Popovers 

Ingredients : 

f c. entire wheat flour c. milk 

i c. flour i egg 

j tsp. salt \ tsp. melted butter 

Prepare and bake as described under Popovers. 



Cream Puffs I 

Ingredients : 

\ c. butter 4 eggs 

i c. boiling water i c. pastry flour 

Method : 

Put butter and water in saucepan and heat to boiling point, add 
flour all at once and beat vigorously. Remove from fire as soon as 
mixed, and add unbeaten eggs one at a time, beating until thoroughly 
mixed between the addition of eggs. Drop by spoonfuls on a buttered 
sheet 1 1 inches apart, shaping as nearly circular as possible, having 
mixture slightly piled in center. Bake 30 minutes in a moderate 
oven. With a sharp knife make in each an incision large enough to 
admit cream filling. 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 207 

Cream Puffs II 

Ingredients : 

\ c. butter (scant) \ c. flour 

\ c. boiling water 2 eggs 

fruit preserve or marmalade 

Put butter in small saucepan and pour on water. When water 
again reaches boiling point add flour all at once and stir until mixture 
leaves sides of saucepan, cleaving to spoon. Remove from fire and 
add eggs unbeaten, one at a time, beating mixture between addition 
of eggs. Drop by spoonfuls into hot fat and fry until well puffed 
and brown. Drain. Make an opening and fill with jelly, preserve, 
or marmalade. Sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

Eclairs 

Shape cream puff mixture 4^ inches long and i inch wide by forcing 
through a pastry bag and tube. Bake 25 minutes in a moderate 
oven. Fill with vanilla, coffee, or chocolate cream filling. Frost 
with chocolate frosting. 

Cream Filling 

Ingredients : 

| c. sugar 2 c. scalded milk, chocolate, 

f c. flour or coffee 

j tsp. salt i tsp. vanilla or 

2 eggs ^ tsp. lemon juice 

Method : 

Mix dry ingredients in double boiler and pour the liquid in 
gradually. Cook the mixture 10 minutes. Add the eggs slightly 
beaten and cook 2 minutes. Cool and flavor. 

FLOUR PASTES 

Macaroni ; Spaghetti ; Noodles 

Boiled Macaroni or Spaghetti 

Ingredients: 

f c. macaroni or spaghetti broken in pieces 2 qts. boiling water 
i c. cream i tbsp. salt 



208 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Cook macaroni or spaghetti in boiling salted water 20 minutes, or 
until soft ; drain in strainer, pour over it cold water to prevent pieces 
from adhering ; add cream, reheat, and season with salt. 

Noodles 

Ingredients : 

i egg \ tsp. salt 

2 c. flour 
Method : 

Beat egg slightly, add salt, and flour enough to make a very stiff 
dough ; knead on a slightly floured board, and roll as thin as possible, 
which may be as thin as paper. Cover with towel and set aside for 
20 minutes ; then cut in fancy shapes - - using sharp knife or French 
vegetable cutter ; or the thin sheet may be rolled like a jelly roll, 
cut in thin slices and pieces unrolled. 

When eggs are expensive, one tablespoon of water may be beaten 
with each egg. 

When noodles are perfectly dry, put them into a glass jar or paste- 
board box. They will keep indefinitely. 

Baked Macaroni with Cheese 

Put a layer of boiled macaroni in buttered baking dish, sprinkle 
with grated cheese ; reheat, pour over white sauce, cover with buttered 
crumbs, and bake until crumbs are brown. 

Macaroni, Italian Style 

Ingredients : 

1 c. macaroni i^ c. scalded milk 

2 tbsp. butter f c. grated cheese 
2 tbsp. flour salt and paprika 

\ c. finely chopped cold boiled ham 
Method : 

Break macaroni in one-inch pieces and cook in boiling, salted 
water, drain, and reheat in sauce made of butter, flour, and milk to 
which is added cheese. As soon as cheese is melted, season with salt 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 209 

and paprika and turn on to a serving dish. Sprinkle with ham and 
garnish with parsley. 

Macaroni with Cheese and Tomato Sauce 

Ingredients : 

i c. boiled macaroni 2 c. tomato sauce 

\ c. grated cheese seasonings 

Method : 

Arrange the macaroni in a buttered baking dish, pour over this the 
tomato sauce and cheese, cover with buttered crumbs and heat in a 
moderate oven until the crumbs are brown. 

Grated cheese may be sprinkled on the top instead of buttered 
crumbs. 

Spaghetti Loaf 

Ingredients : 

i c. scalded cream or milk i c. grated cheese 

i c. bread crumbs i tbsp. onion juice 

i c. cooked spaghetti i tbsp. chopped parsley 

3 eggs i tbsp. green pepper 

i tbsp. red pepper or pimento 
Method : 

Scald cream, add the bread crumbs, cooked spaghetti and cheese, 
and eggs slightly beaten. Chop green and red peppers and add 
to first mixture. Pour into a buttered bread pan, place in hot water, 
and bake in a slow oven until firm and slightly browned. Turn on 
a platter and surround with tomato sauce. 

COOKIES 

CLASSIFICATION 

Dropped Rolled Spread 

Peanut Sugar Brownies 

Boston Chocolate Fairy gingerbread 

Oatmeal I Molasses Rolled wafers 

Oatmeal II Orange circles Chocolate chips 

Sponge drops Hermits 



210 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Margarets (fancy meringue pans) Date meringues 

Chocolate wafers Vanilla wafers 

Dropped : 

Thick batters. Drop from tsp. on well-greased sheets i inch apart. 
Sponge Cookies may be put together with marshmallows or boiled 
frosting. 

Rolled : 

Stiff doughs. Chill before rolling out. Use fancy cutters. Gar- 
nish with raisins, currants, sugar, spice, candied cherries, angelica, 
orange peel. 

Filled cookies. Two cookies may be put together with fruit and 
nut filling before baking. 

Two colors. A sugar cooky cut in fancy shape may be placed on 
a round chocolate cooky before baking. 

Spread: 

Thick batters. Spread with spatula on well-greased Russian sheets 
or on the back of a dripping pan. Cut in squares or oblongs or cut 
and roll while hot. 

Nut wafers. Sprinkle chopped nuts on mixture before baking. 



General Rules for Mixing Cookies 

Eggs should not be separated ; otherwise proceed as for cake. 
Bake one cooky to see if mixture is of proper consistency. 



Dropped Cookies 

Chocolate Wafers 

Ingredients : 

4 tbsp. butter c. flour 

8 tbsp. sugar | tsp. salt 

i egg | tsp. vanilla 

i oz. chocolate | c. nuts 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



211 



Oatmeal I 



Ingredients : 

4 tbsp. butter 
3 tbsp. lard 

i c. sugar 
i egg 

5 tbsp. milk 

if c. rolled oats 
c. raisins 



\ c. nuts 
i^ c. flour 
\ tsp. salt 
\ tsp. soda 
f tsp. cinnamon 
\ tsp. cloves 
\ tsp. allspice 



Ingredients : 

i tbsp. butter 
i c. sugar 
| tsp. salt 



Oatmeal II 

2 c. rolled oats 
2 eggs 

i tsp. baking powder, 
i tsp. vanilla 



Ingredients : 



Boston Cookies 



i c. butter 

i^ c. sugar 

3 eggs 

i tsp. soda 

i^ tbsp. cold water 

3! c. flour 



\ tsp. salt 

i tsp. cinnamon 

i c. chopped nuts 

(hickory or English walnuts) 
\ c. currants 
\ c. raisins, seeded (or seedless), 

chopped 



Ingredients : 

% c. butter 

^ c. powdered sugar 

| c. molasses 



Margarets 



i egg well beaten 
| c. flour 



i c. pecan meats chopped 
Garnish top of each with half a pecan. 



212 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Drop Molasses Cookies 

Ingredients : 

i c. molasses i c. sour cream or 

i c. sugar | c. butter 

i egg i tsp. each : 

i tsp. soda ginger 

i tsp. baking powder cinnamon 

1 c. boiling water f tsp. salt 

about 3 c. flour 

Method : 

Follow general directions for flour mixtures. Spread the mixture 
in a well-greased dripping pan and bake in a moderate oven 10-20 
minutes. Cut in squares and remove with spatula to a rack or cloth 
to cool. 

Peanut Cookies 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. butter ^ c. flour 
\ c. sugar I tsp. salt 

i egg 2 tbsp. milk 

i tsp. baking powder \ tsp. lemon juice 

| c. chopped nuts 

Meringues 

Ingredients : 

whites 4 eggs i| c. powdered sugar or 

\ tsp. vanilla i c. granulated sugar 

Beat whites until stiff, add gradually the sugar and continue beat- 
ing until mixture will hold shape, and add flavoring. Shape with 
spoon or pastry bag and tube on wet board covered with letter paper 
or on greased paper. Bake 30 minutes in a very slow oven. Re- 
move from paper when cold. 

Date Meringues 

Ingredients : 

\ Ib. dates whites 4 eggs 

\ Ib. almonds i c. sugar 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



213 



Method : 

Wash and stone dates. Blanch almonds. Mix with dates and 
chop finely. Beat whites of eggs until stiff. Add sugar gradually 
and continue beating. Fold in date mixture. Drop by spoonfuls 
on greased paper. Bake in a " moderate ' oven until delicately 
brown (recording the temperature). Remove at once from paper. 



Ingredients : 

whites 3 eggs 

I c. powdered sugar 

yolks 2 eggs 



Sponge Drops 



| c. flour 
| tsp. salt 
\ tsp. vanilla 



Ingredients : 



3 tbsp. butter 
f c. sugar 
rind i orange 



Rolled Cookies 



Orange Circles 



if c. flour 

salt 

juice i orange 



Ingredients : 

i c. butter 
i c. sugar 
i c. molasses 



Ginger Snaps 



egg 



4 c. flour 
i tsp. soda 
i tbsp. ginger 



Ingredients : 

% c. butter 
^ c. boiling water 
f c. molasses 
i tsp. soda 



Molasses 



| tsp. salt 
i tbsp. ginger 
i tsp. cinnamon 
f c. sugar 



flour 



214 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 

\ c. butter 
\ c. sugar 
i egg 
\ c. milk 



Sugar Cookies 



2\ c. flour 

2 tsp. baking powder 

^ tsp. salt 

| tsp. vanilla 



Vanilla Wafers 



Ingredients : 

f c. butter and lard in equal 2 c. flour 

proportions 
i c. sugar 
i egg 
\ c. milk 



Ingredients : 

| c. butter 
i c. sugar 
i tbsp. milk 



2 tsp. baking powder 
\ tsp. salt 
2 tsp. vanilla 



Thin Cookies 



2 tsp. baking powder 

flour 

2 eggs 



Ingredients : 

\ c. butter 
i c. sugar 
i egg 
c. milk 



Chocolate Cookies 



2^ c. flour 

2 tsp. baking powder 
\ tsp. salt 
\ tsp. vanilla 
2 oz. chocolate 



Ingredients : 

\ c. butter 

1 c. brown sugar 

2 eggs 

f tsp. soda 

i tbsp. hot water 



Hermits 



i\ c. flour 

\ tsp. salt 

i tsp. cinnamon 

\ tsp. each clove, mace, nutmeg 

i c. raisins 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 215 

Spread Cookies 

Chocolate Chips 

Ingredients : 

\ c. butter 4 tbsp. melted chocolate 

1 c. sugar i tsp. vanilla 

2 eggs i c. flour 



Chocolate Brownies 

Ingredients : 

i c. sugar f tsp. vanilla 

\ c. melted butter \ c. flour 

1 egg unbeaten \ c. walnut meats cut in pieces 

2 oz. chocolate melted 

Method : 

Mix ingredients in order given. Line a seven-inch square with 
paraffin paper. Spread mixture evenly in pan and bake in a slow 
oven (recording the temperature). As soon as taken from oven 
turn from pan, remove paper, and cut in strips. 



Nut Wafers 

Ingredients : 

\ c. butter (chicken fat may be 2 tbsp. milk 

used) \ tsp. salt 

f c. sugar i tsp. baking powder 

i egg i tsp. vanilla 

1 1 c. flour \ c. nut meats (chopped) 



Fairy Gingerbread 

Ingredients : 

\ c. butter \ c. milk 

i c. light brown sugar if c. flour 

2 tsp. ginger 



2l6 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

SCORE CARDS 

Rolled Cookies 

General appearance 30 

Uniformity (5) 
Size (5) 

Shape (10) 

Color (5) 

Surface (5) 

Texture 20 

Lightness (10) 
Color (5) 

Crispness (5) 

Flavor 50 

Taste (25) 

Odor (25) 

100 

Dropped Cookies 



General appearance 30 

Uniformity (5) 
Shape (10) 

Size (5) 

Color (5) 

Surface (5) 

Texture 20 

Lightness (5) 
Tenderness (10) 
Color (5) 

Flavor 50 

100 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



217 



FOOD VALUES 
Molasses Cookies 













H 








^^^^ 














H 






O 


C/5 -i? 






9 


H M 


B 


en 


C4 


en 

^ H 




SCJ en 


5 t'l 


c/1 


MATERIAL 


< 


o 

w ra 
i] i_< 




^i 


w 2 


< 3 

ss 


H 
en 
O 


"-'a 

p tn C 


W t/3 C 


II 




w 



go 


o 

PH 





go 
1 




CJ 


<! eJO 
CJ 


W cd 














u 




$ 




^^ 




Molasses . 


I C. 


326.3 


8.07 




233-05 


965 


.042 


1.118 


965 


.048 


Butter. . 


4- C. 


56.7 


57 


48.2 




436 


.04 


.013 


.017 




Flour . 


3C. 


333.6 


37.36 


3-34 


249.87 


1178 


03 


.082 


.589 


.0047 


Soda . 


% tsp. 


2.1 










.0004 








Salt . . 


2 tsp. 


9.2 










.OOO6 








Ginger 


i tbsp. 


6 










.003 








Totals, / 
cooked \ 


24 I 

large / 


628.4 


46.46 


51.56 


482.92 


2579 


.116 


1.213 


I.56l 


.0527 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion 


i large 


23-38 


1-75 


1.96 


18.45 


100 


.004 


047 


.062 


.0020 



Hermits 



Butter . . 


|c. 


84.2 


.842 


7L57 




647.5 


.0425 


.OI9 


.025 




Sugar . 


fc. 


137 






137 


548 


.02 








Egg . . 


I 


44-5 


5.96 


4.67 




66 


.036 


039 


.158 


.0012 


Milk . . 


2 tbsp. 


42.8 


I.4I 


1.71 


2.14 


30 


.OO28 


.069 


.09 


.0001 


Flour . 


r 3 r 
I 4 C. 


194.6 


21.79 


1.94 


145-75 


688 


.021 


.048 


344 


.0027 


Raisins 


1 r 

3^ C - 


51-3 


1-33 


1.49 


39-03 


175 


.OII7 


035 


H 


.0017 


Spices . 




ii-3 


















Total, 






















cooked 


52 


479 


38.91 


81.39 


323-92 


2153 


134 


.210 


757 


.0057 


loo-Calorie 


small 




















Portion 


3 


22.22 


1-55 


3-77 


15-2 


IOO 


.0057 


.0105 


0378 


.0002 



CHAPTER XIV 
CAKE 

CAKES WITH BUTTER 

General Rules for Mixing. 

Measure all ingredients, and grease the pans. Mix and sift dry 
ingredients except sugar. Cream butter by continued rubbing against 
the bowl with a wooden spoon. (Any edible fat may be used in place 
of butter.) Add the sugar gradually and continue creaming until 
mixture is smooth. Beat yolk of egg until thick and lemon-colored; 
add to the butter and sugar. Add the flour and milk alternately; 
add vanilla. Beat whites until stiff and dry ; cut and fold into the 
mixture. When fruit or nuts are used, save out a little flour to cover 
them and add to the cake just before the whites of the eggs. Fill 
greased pans half full, with sides well filled and a slight depression in 
the center. 

General Rules for Baking. 

Temperature of oven - - moderate. 
Time depends on thickness of cake. 

a. cup cakes, 12-15 minutes 
layer cakes, 20-30 minutes 
loaf cakes, 30-40 minutes 

b. quarters of time 

1. begins to rise 

2. continues rising ; begins to brown 

3. finishes browning 

4. shrinks from pan 

218 



CAKE 219 



Care after Baking. 

a. loosen edges with knife 

b. invert on cooler 

c. turn right side up after a few minutes 

Standard Cake 

Ingredients : 

| c. butter \ c. milk 

1 c. sugar i^ c. flour 

2 eggs 2 \ tsp. baking powder 

i tsp. lemon juice or \ tsp. vanilla 

Modifications : 

Spice 

i tsp. spice sifted with the flour 

Nut 

1 c. chopped nuts added before folding in the whites 

Chocolate 

2 oz. melted and added after adding the yolks 

Currant 

% c. added before folding in the whites 

Ribbon 

Double the recipe and bake f as 2 plain layers. To remaining ^ 
add i tbsp. molasses, i tsp. spice, and f c. raisins. 

White Cake 

Ingredients : 

% c. butter 2 c. flour 

i c. sugar 4 tsp. baking powder 

whites 4 eggs \ c. milk 

\ tsp. almond extract 

Spanish Cake 

Ingredients : 

\ c. butter if c. flour 

1 c. sugar 3 tsp. baking powder 
\ c. milk 1 1 tsp. cinnamon 

2 eggs | tsp. salt 



220 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Chocolate Cake I 

Ingredients : 

3 oz. chocolate ^ c. sugar \ c. milk 
Boil until thickens to a paste and cool. Add to : 

\ c. butter 2 c. flour 

1 c. sugar i tsp. baking soda 

2 eggs \ tsp. salt 

1 tsp. vanilla | c. milk 

Chocolate Cake II 

Ingredients : 

2 oz. chocolate i 

4 tbsp. butter \ Boil until it thickens to a paste and cool 
\ c. boiling water J 

Add 

i c. sugar i c. flour 

i egg f tsp. soda 

\ c. sour milk 

Lady Baltimore Cake 

Ingredients : 

1 c. butter 3^ c. flour 

2 c. sugar 2 tsp. baking powder 
i c. milk whites 6 eggs 

Lady Baltimore Cake Filling 

3 c. sugar i c. water 

Boil to thread stage and pour on stiffly beaten whites of 3 eggs. 
When begins to thicken add i c. chopped raisins, pecans, and figs. 

Pound Cake 

Ingredients : 

i Ib. butter i Ib. flour 

i Ib. sugar \ tsp. mace 

10 eggs 2 tbsp. brandy 



CAKE 221 

Gold Cake 

Ingredients : 

8 yolks of eggs 2\ c. flour 

f c. butter i tsp. cream of tartar 

1 1 c. sugar \ tsp. soda 

| c. milk i tbsp. vanilla 

Method : 

Mix soda and flour and sift 3 times. Cream butter and sugar, 

beat yolks until very light, add cream of tartar, then add this to the 

butter and sugar. Mix well and add milk, flour, and flavoring. 

This recipe is particularly good for small cakes. 

Date Loaf Cake 

Ingredients : 

i Ib. dates (after stoning) i c. flour 

i Ib. pecans - - shelled 4 eggs 

i c. sugar i^ tsp. baking powder 

1 tsp. brandy or \ tsp. salt 

i tsp. vanilla 
Method : 

Wash and stone dates. Wash pecans and add to date pulp. Chop 
slightly. Beat yolks of eggs until foamy and mix with the sugar 
through the date and nut mixture. Add flavoring and the sifted dry 
ingredients and fold in the beaten whites. Bake as a loaf 50 minutes 
in a moderate oven. 

Orange Loaf Cake 

Ingredients : 

2 c. sugar 4 eggs 

| c. butter 2\ c. flour 

\ c. orange juice 3 tsp-. baking powder 

grated rind of i orange \ tsp. salt 

Method : 

Cream the butter, add the sugar and yolks of the eggs. Add to 
this the grated rind of i orange. Mix and sift the dry ingredients 
and add alternately with the liquid to the first mixture. Line a deep 
pan with paraffin paper and allow the cake to bake in moderate oven 
35-40 minutes. 



222 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Coffee Cake 

Ingredients : 

1 c. butter i tsp. cinnamon 

2 c. sugar I tsp. cloves 

4 eggs I tsp. mace 

2 tbsp. molasses \ tsp. allspice 
i c. cold boiled coffee f c. raisins 
3! c. flour f c. currants 

5 tsp. baking powder \ c. citron 

2 tbsp. brandy 

Apple Sauce Cake 

Ingredients : 

i c. butter 3 c. flour 

i c. sugar i tsp. soda 

i egg \ tsp. allspice, cinnamon, 

i c. molasses and clove 

i c. apple sauce (unsweetened) \ grated nutmeg 

\ c. raisins and currants 

Fruit Cake 

Ingredients : 

i Ib. butter 12 eggs 

i Ib. brown sugar \ Ib. almonds 

i Ib. flour 2 tsp. nutmeg 

3 Ib. raisins 2 tsp. cloves 

3 Ib. currants 2 tsp. cinnamon 

i Ib. mixed fruit peel 3 tbsp. vanilla 

juice of 2 lemons 

Molasses Layer Cake 

Ingredients : 

i c. molasses i c. hot water 

| c. sugar 2 eggs 

1 c. shortening 2^ c. flour 

2 tsp. soda. i tsp. cinnamon 

i tsp. cloves 
Method : 

Follow directions for flour mixtures and bake as a layer cake. 



CAKE 223 

Filling for Molasses Cake 

Ingredients : 

1 c. milk \ c. sugar 

\ cake chocolate i tbsp. cornstarch 

\ tsp. vanilla 
Method : 

Melt the chocolate in a double boiler. Mix the sugar and corn- 
starch and add gradually to the melted chocolate alternately with the 
milk. Stir the mixture with a wooden spoon constantly in order to 
prevent lumps and to make a smooth paste. Allow the whole to 
cook in a double boiler 1 5 minutes. Add flavoring, and when custard 
has cooled slightly, use as a filling for the molasses cake. 

NOTE : Whipped cream may be used as the upper covering. This cake is 
best used as a dessert. 

Canned Raspberry Cake 

Ingredients : 

2 eggs \ nutmeg 

i c. brown sugar i tbsp. cinnamon 

\ c. butter i tbsp. sour milk 

i c. canned strawberries or rasp- i tsp. soda 

berries i c. flour 

Hot Water Ginger Cake 

Ingredients : 

i c. molasses i tsp. soda 

\ c. boiling water \\ tsp. ginger 

2\ c. flour \ tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. melted butter 

Sweet or Sour Milk Ginger Cake 

Ingredients : 

\ c. butter if c. flour 

\ c. sugar i tsp. ginger 

\ c. molasses \ tsp. cinnamon 

i egg \ tsp. soda 

I c. milk sour or sweet 



224 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Ginger Cup Cakes 

Ingredients : 

I c. butter i tsp. ginger 

^ c. sugar i tsp. cloves 

1 c. molasses i c. boiling water 

2 eggs 2^ c. flour 

1 tsp. cinnamon 2 tsp. soda 

\ tsp. salt 

Roxbury Cakes 

Ingredients: 

\ c. butter i^ c. flour 

\ c. sugar i tsp. soda or 

\ c. molasses 2 tsp. baking powder 

2 eggs i tsp. cloves 

\ c. milk - - sour or sweet | tsp. nutmeg 

\ c. nuts \ c. raisins or dates 

CAKES WITHOUT BUTTER 



General Rules for Mixing. 

Sift flour and sugar several times before measuring each. Beat 
yolks until lemon-colored, add sugar gradually and flavoring. Partly 
fold in stiffly beaten whites. Fold in the flour sifted with the salt. 
The folding should be carefully done so that the mixture will not 
become stiff. 

General Rules for Baking. 

Use a tube cake pan - - unbuttered. Slow oven - - 40-60 minutes. 
Oven door should not be opened during first 20 minutes. After 
baking, invert pan on cake cooler and do not remove cake until cold. 

Sponge Cakes 

Yellow Sponge Cake 

Ingredients : 

yolks of 6 eggs grated rind \ lemon 

i c. sugar whites of 6 eggs 

i tbsp. lemon juice i c. flour 

5 tsp. salt 



CAKE 225 

Boiled Sponge Cake 

Ingredients : 

i c. sugar \ c. water 

i c. flour 6 eggs 

Boil sugar and water to thread stage. Add to 6 whites beaten stiff, 
and beat until cold. Fold in flour sifted with i tsp. salt and a few 
grains of cream of tartar. Fold in the well-beaten yolks. 



Sponge Drops 

Ingredients : 

3 whites eggs \ c. flour 

2 yolks eggs \ tsp. salt 

\ c. powdered sugar \ tsp. vanilla 

Drop from teaspoon on buttered sheets. 



Sponge Cakes with Baking Powder 

When eggs are expensive, the number may be decreased, and bak- 
ing powder used to help raise the mixture. 



Hot Water Sponge Cake 

Ingredients : 

yolks of 3 eggs 2 tsp. baking powder 

i c. sugar whites 3 eggs 

i c. flour grated rind \ orange 

juice of orange and enough hot water to make \ cup 



Sponge Cake 

Ingredients : 

3 eggs i tsp. baking powder 

i c. sugar \ c. cold water 

i c. flour i tsp. vanilla 

| tsp. salt 



226 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Jelly Roll 

Ingredients : 

i c. sugar i c. flour 

5 eggs i tsp. baking powder 

i tsp. vanilla i tsp. salt 

Line oblong pan with greased paper. When baked, remove paper, 
spread with jelly and roll. 

White Sponge Cake 

Ingredients : 

whites of 8 eggs i tsp. vanilla 

i tsp. cream tartar \ tsp. salt 

i c. sugar, fine granulated f c. flour 

Mocha Cakes 
Bake sponge cake mixture in a shallow pan. See below. 

Sponge Cake for Mocha Cakes 

Ingredients : 

yolks 2 eggs grated rind \ lemon 

\ c. sugar whites 2 eggs 

\ tbsp. lemon juice \ c. flour 

salt 
Method : 

Beat yolks until creamy ; add sugar, beat well, lemon juice. Fold 
in stiffly beaten whites ; when partially folded in, fold in flour. Bake 
in unbuttered pan in a slow oven. 

Cut cake in small circles, - - put together in 3 layers with thin 
coating of frosting ; cover sides with frosting and roll in fresh coco- 
nut or chopped nuts. Ornament top with frosting. 

Frosting for Mocha Cakes 

Ingredients : 

% c. butter i c. powdered sugar 

Method : 

Cream the butter and add the sugar. Add i c. cream filling 
(cooled). Add \ tsp. vanilla, i| oz. melted chocolate. 



CAKE 227 

Genoese Cakes 

Bake jelly roll mixture in a shallow pan. Have mixture when 
baked about f inch thick. Cut the cake into fancy shapes, dip each 
in glaze, allow this to cool and then redip the cakes in soft fondant, 
colored and flavored. These may be decorated with the following : 

cherries citron 

nuts angelica 

candied violet leaves candied rose leaves 

Glaze 

Ingredients : 

\ c. sugar \ c. water 

Method : 

Put the sugar and water in a saucepan and stir the mixture until 
the sugar is dissolved. Allow the sirup to cook until a hard ball 
forms in cold water ; when the sirup has cooled slightly, use it to 
glaze Genoese cakes. 

SCORE CARDS 

Loaf Cake 

General appearance 25 

Size (5) 

Shape (10) 

Color (5) 

Surface (5) 

Flavor 50 

Taste (25) 

Odor (25) 

Texture and interior appearance 25 

Lightness (5) 
Tenderness (5) 
Elasticity (5) 
Grain (5) 

Color (5) 

100 



228 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Layer Cake 
General appearance 15 

Size (5) 

Shape (5) 

Surface (5) 

Layers 35 

Thickness (10) 
Flavor (15) 

Texture (10) 

Filling 30 

Consistency (10) 
Suitability (5) 
Flavor (5) 

Thickness (5) 
Color (2) 

Surface (3) 

Combined flavor 20 

100 

Sponge Cake 

General appearance 25 

Color (5) 

Surface (10) 
Shape (10) 

Flavor 50 

Taste (40) 

Odor (10) 

Texture and interior appearance 25 

Lightness (5) 
Tenderness (5) 
Elasticity (5) 
Grain (5) 
Color (5) 

IOO 



CAKE 



229 



FOOD VALUES 
Hot Water Gingerbread 













w 








f ^ 




















O 


en 1 






3 


w en 


gen 


tn 


1 < 


en 

j W 






^Cb en 


en 


MATERIAL 


en 


w a 

O C 

W '- 


w S 

H rt 
O >- 




^E 
S S 


J w 

< 

H O 
3 


H 
en 
O 

Ul 


sl 


C 
gj tn c 

& ^ ^ 


Z C 
|j 




W 





&H 






w 


H 




u-^ 


^ eJO 

a"rt 




















CJ 
















O 




$ 




*-* 




Molasses . 


I C. 


332 


7-97 




230.08 


953 


0375 


1.14 


9 


.049 


Water . . 


2 C. 


114.6 


















Flour . 


2 i c 

fc A V^ 


250.2 


28.02 


2.50 


187.4 


883 


.028 


.06 


.44 


.003 


Soda . 


i tsp. 


4-3 










.OOI 








Ginger 


i| tsp. 


4 










.0015 








Salt . . 


\ tsp. 


2.25 


















Melted 






















butter . 


4 tbsp. 


78 


78 


66.52 




600 


.06 


.017 


.023 




Total, 
cooked 1 


Loaf 
10X6X2 
inches 


674 


36.77 


69.12 


417.48 


2436 


.I28l 


1.217 


1-363 


.052 


loo-Cal- | 


2f Xii 




















orie Por-\ 


X2 




















tion 


inches 


27.63 


i.Si 


2.9 


17.12 


IOO 


.005 


.051 


055 


.OO2 



Chocolate Cake 



Sugar . 


I C. 


205.5 






205.5 


822 


.02 








Butter 


i c 

3 - 


59-7 


.6 


50.75 




459 


.04 


.013 


.0183 




Eggs . . 


2 


95-6 


12.91 


10.04 




141 


.06 


.064 


.3384 


.0026 


Flour . . 


ifc. 


i48. 3 


16.61 


1.48 


111.08 


523 


.OI 


.036 


.262 


.002 


Milk . . 


2 _ 
3 C - 


161.9 


5-34 


6.48 


8.10 


112 


.or 


257 


339 


.0003 


Chocolate 


2 OZ. 


37-9 


4-89 


18.46 


11.48 


231 


.04 


.046 


324 




Soda . 


Itsp. 


2.2 










.0005 








f 


T oaf 




















Total, 


J^*Jdl 
-. v/ _ \s 


624 


40.25 87.21 


336.16 


2289 


.21 


.416 


1.2817 


.0049 


cooked ] 


9X5X2 




















( 


inches 




















loo-Cal- f 






















orie Por-< 


|Xi|X3 


26.83 


i-73 


3-75 


14-45 


IOO 


.OI 


.016 


.0512 


.0001 


tion 


inches 





















230 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



FOOD VALUES 



Hot Water Sponge Cake 













w 














w 










C/} 




o 


|6 




MATERIAL 


pi 

p 

CO 


2 
o e 

32 


a* 

g E 
o2 


li 


la 

3 * 


iJ W 

rj -< 
< 

ss 


H 

8 


|a3 


PJ rt cj 


en 
|| 




W 








~o 


O r >j 

i 


H 6 




u-^ 


ojJO 




















CJ 


PnCJ 














u 




$ 


' ' 


^^ 




Eggs . . 


2 


90 


12.06 


9.45 




132 


.058 


.079 


.264 


.0013 


Sugar . 


I C. 


205.5 






205.5 


822 


.0271 








Flour . 


I C. 


112. 2 


12.45 


I. II 


83.28 


392 


.0117 


.027 


.196 


.0015 


Baking 






















powder . 


i| tsp. 


9 










.004 








Lemon juice 


2 tbsp. 


28.2 






2.76 


II 


.016 


.009 


.OO6 




Water . . 


8 C - 




















Total, 
cooked 


12 small 
cakes 


360.6 


24-51 


10.56 


291.54 


1357 


.1168 


115 


.466 


.OO28 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion . 


i 


26.32 


1.78 


77 


21.28 


100 


.0685 


.008 


.032 


.OOOI 



Ingredients : 



COOKED FROSTINGS 



White Mountain 



i c. sugar 
\ c. water 
\ tsp. cream of tartar 



i egg white 

i tsp. lemon juice 

i tsp. vanilla 



Method : 



Boil first three ingredients to thread stage. Pour slowly on beaten 
white, add flavoring, and heat until thick enough to spread. 



Chocolate I 

2-4 oz. chocolate melted. 

Add to White Mountain Frosting before spreading on cake. 



CAKE 231 

Chocolate II 

4 oz. chocolate melted with a little milk. Cook until thickens, 
add i c. sugar. Remove from fire, add i tbsp. butter, i tsp. vanilla. 
Beat until smooth. 



Fudge Frosting 

Ingredients: 

i c. sugar I c. milk 

2 oz. chocolate 
Method: 

Boil to soft ball stage. Add 2 tbsp. butter and i tsp. vanilla. Cool. 
Beat until thick enough to spread. 



Maple 

\ Ib. maple sugar \ c. boiling water 

i egg white 

Break or grate sugar. Method same as White Mountain. 



Caramel 
i c. brown sugar \ c. granulated sugar 

f c. cream \ tbsp. butter 

Prepare as Fudge Frosting. 



UNCOOKED FROSTINGS 

Confectioners' Frosting 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. water, milk, fresh fruit confectioners' sugar 

juice or cream flavoring 

Method : 

To the liquid add enough sifted sugar to make of right consistency 
to spread, then add flavoring. 



232 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Chocolate Frosting 
Ingredients : 

2 oz. chocolate 3 tbsp. hot water 

1 tbsp. butter confectioners' sugar 

i tsp. vanilla 
Method : 

Melt chocolate over boiling water, add butter and hot water. 
Cool, and add sugar to make of right consistency to spread. Flavor 
with vanilla. 

Cocoa Pros ing 

Ingredients : 

2 tbsp. cocoa i tbsp. butter 
boiling water to make paste confectioners' sugar 

i tsp. vanilla 

Coffee Frosting 

Ingredients : 

2 tsp. cocoa i tbsp. butter 

confectioners' sugar 2 tbsp. strong coffee 

Method : 

Melt butter in the hot coffee. Add cocoa and sugar until of right 
consistency to spread. 

Mocha Frosting 

Ingredients : 

| c. butter i tbsp. breakfast cocoa 

i| c. confectioners' sugar coffee infusion 

Method : 

Cream butter, and add sugar gradually, continuing the beating; 
then add cocoa and coffee infusion drop by drop until of right con- 
sistency to spread. 

Orange Frosting 

Ingredients : 

4 tbsp. orange juice i tsp. lemon juice 

rind i orange 



CAKE 233 

Method : 

Soak rind in the juice \ hour, strain. Add 2 egg yolks, and con- 
fectioners' sugar to spread. 

CAKE FILLINGS 
Lemon Orange 

Ingredients : 

i c. sugar \ c. sugar 

2\ tbsp. flour 2\ tbsp. flour 

rind of 2 lemons rind \ orange 

| c. lemon juice \ c. orange juice 

i egg \ tbsp. lemon juice 

i tsp. butter i egg 

i tsp. butter 
Method : 

Mix sugar and flour, add fruit juice and rind. Cook 20 minutes in 
double boiler. Add egg and cook a little longer, stirring constantly. 
Add butter and cool. 



Cream Chocolate 

Ingredients : 

7 tbsp. sugar \ c. sugar 

2 f tbsp. flour 3 tbsp. flour 

salt . i oz. chocolate 

i c. milk - - scalded i c. milk - - scalded 

i egg i egg yolk 

\ tsp. vanilla i tsp. vanilla 

Method : 

Mix dry ingredients with a little of the cold milk. Add to the 
scalded milk, and cook 20 minutes in double boiler. Add egg and 
cook a little longer. Add the vanilla. Cool. 

Chocolate. Shave the chocolate and add i tbsp. hot water to it. 
Heat it in double boiler until smooth. Pour the cooked flour mix- 
ture over this. Then add the egg and vanilla. 



234 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Ingredients : 

\ Ib. chopped figs \ c. boiling water 

\ c. sugar i tbsp. lemon juice 

Method : 

Mix all together, and cook in a double boiler until thick enough 
to spread. 

Fruit 
Add chopped fruit and nuts to White Mountain Frosting. 



CHAPTER XV 

PASTRY 

Plain Paste I 

Ingredients : 

i c. flour \ tsp. salt 

\ c. lard ice water 

Plain Paste II 
if c. flour \ c. lard 

\ c. butter \ tsp. salt 

ice water 

Flour. - - Pastry or bread flour may be used. 

Shortening. - - Butter, lard, crisco, oleomargarine, drippings, 
chicken fat, or refined oils or combinations of two or more may be 
used. 

General Rules for Plain Paste. 

I. Sift flour, measure and sift flour and salt. Cut in shortening 
with 2 knives. Add water to make a stiff dough. Chill. Roll out 
on floured board. 

II. Wash butter in cold water to remove salt and buttermilk. 
Chill butter and lard. Sift flour and salt and cut in shortening. 
Roll lightly into an oblong piece ; roll from center forward and from 
center backward. Fold crosswise in thirds. Turn halfway around, 
roll and fold a second time. 



Puff Paste 

Ingredients : 

i Ib. bread flour i Ib. butter 

ice water 
235 



236 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

The liquid may be cream, water, or egg whites. Weigh the butter, 
place in ice water, and wash to remove salt and buttermilk. Weigh 
the flour and add water to make a stiff dough, wrap in a towel and 
put on ice. (Placing between 2 pans of chopped ice is a convenient 
way of chilling.) Dredge board with flour, also the rolling pin. 
Roll the dough into a rectangle almost as long as the board. Place 
the butter in center, fold the paste one side over and press edges 
together. Fold in thirds - - lower part over, upper part under. 
Press edges, pound lightly with rolling pin to a rectangle and fold 
in thirds - - both over. Turn the mixture halfway around, pound, 
roll and fold. Repeat twice unless the butter shows through the 
flour mixture, and chill. Repeat three times, and the last time fold 
from ends to center and double, making 4 layers. Chill. Use this 
paste for tarts, patties, or crusts. 

Patties 

Cut off a piece of dough, turn halfway round, pound to i inch in 
thickness. Cut tops, pound a little thinner and cut first layers. 
Cut five small centers from the tops. Put together, place on sheet 
and chill 15 minutes. 

Baking : 

21 min. in hot oven 
7 min. rise 
7 min. brown 
7 min. finish baking at reduced temperature 

Cheese Straws 

Roll out paste, sprinkle with grated cheese and cayenne. Fold, 
turn, and pound 3 times. Chill. Cut in strips. 

Banbury Tarts 

Cut paste 3X3^ inches. Place \ tsp. of Banbury Filling on one 
side, fold one side over and press edges. Prick top with fork. 



PASTRY 



237 



Banbury Filling 

Ingredients : 

i lemon - - boiled 15 minutes i c. sugar 

i c. raisins i egg 

Method : 

Remove seeds from lemon, chop raisins and lemon, and add sugar 
and egg. 

CLASSIFICATION OF PIES 

One Crust Unbaked, 
Lattice top 

Chocolate Custard Cherry 

Coconut Pumpkin Cranberry 

Cream Sour cream Mock cherry 
Lemon 



One Crust Baked One Crust Unbaked 



Two Crusts 

Apple 
Mince 



Turnover 

Apple 

Fruit mixtures 



Tarts 

Jelly 

Banbury 

Cream 

Fruit mixtures 



One Crust - - Baked 



Invert pie tin. Bake crust on it ; turn right side up as soon as 



baked. 



CREAM COCONUT CHOCOLATE 



LEMON 



Sugar . . 


. i 


c. 


I 


C. 


i 


C. 


i 


c. 




Flour . . 


4 


tbsp. 


2 


tbsp. 


3 


tbsp. 


5 


tbsp. 




Salt . . . 


i 


tsp. 


1 
4 


tsp. 


i 

4 


tsp. 


4 


tsp. 




Milk . . . 


. 2 


c. 


I 


i r 

2 <-. 


2 


c. 


I 


c. boiling 


water 


Egg yolks . 


3 




2 




3 




2 






Butter . . 


. i 


tsp. 


I 


tsp. 






I 


tbsp. 




Vanilla . . 


. i 


tsp. 


I 


tbsp. 


i 


tbsp. 


juice and 


rind 








I 


c. coconut 


2 


oz. chocolate 




i lemon 





or c. cocoa 



Ingredients : 

2 whites of eggs 



Meringue 

4 tbsp. granulated sugar 



238 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Add sugar slowly to stiffly beaten whites and continue beating. 
Bake in slow oven. 

One Crust - - Unbaked 

Line a very deep tin with paste, allowing \ inch on edge of plate 
for a frill. Turn crust under and make a frill with thumb and fore- 
fingers. 

To prevent soggy crust : 

Brush paste with white of egg 
Dredge paste with flour 

Custard Pumpkin 

Ingredients : Ingredients : 

2 eggs I tsp. salt i^ c. pumpkin i tsp. ginger 

3 tbsp. sugar i| c. milk i c. brown sugar \ tsp. salt 

\ tsp. nutmeg i tsp. cinnamon 2 eggs 

i c. milk 2 tbsp. molasses 

Sour Cream 

Ingredients : 

3 yolks of eggs i c. Chopped raisins 

i c. sugar i tsp. cinnamon 

i c. sour cream \ tsp. cloves 

\ tsp. salt 

One Crust - - Unbaked - - Lattice Top 

Line deep tin with paste ; cut off close to edge. Cover top of pie 
with strips of paste. 

Mock Cherry 

Ingredients : 

i c. cranberries i c. sugar 

\ c. raisins 2 tbsp. flour 

j c. cold water 



PASTRY 239 

Method : 

Cut cranberries in halves. Wash to remove seeds. Chop with 
raisins and add remaining ingredients. 

Two Crusts 

Line tin with plain paste. Fill and cover with a paste, which has 
been pricked to allow the escape of steam. Insert a narrow strip of 
paste between lining and top. Moisten with cold water and press 
edges firmly. Trim and ornament as desired. 

NOTE : A strip of cloth may be wrapped around the pie to prevent escape 
of juice. A cornucopia of paper inserted in the center allows 
the escape of juice. 

Apple Pie 

tart apples spice 

sugar butter 

water 

Mince Meat 

Ingredients : 

2 Ibs. fresh beef, stewed and put through a meat grinder 

1 Ib. beef suet, finely chopped 
5 Ibs. chopped apples 

2 Ibs. seeded raisins 

1 Ib. sultana raisins 

2 Ibs. currants 

f Ib. citron, finely cut 
2 tbsp. cinnamon 

1 tbsp. nutmeg 

2 tbsp. mace 
i tbsp. cloves 

2\ Ibs. brown sugar 

i tbsp. salt 

\ Ib. candied orange peel 

\ Ib. candied lemon peel 

i qt. boiled cider 

water 



240 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Mix all ingredients except the raisins with water to cover and allow 
the mixture to cook 6 hours slowly, adding water as necessary to 
prevent burning. When ready to use, add the raisins. Spread in a 
pastry shell, dot over with small pieces of butter, and cover with 
upper crust. 



Green Tomato Mince Meat 1 

Ingredients : 

2 c. chopped green tomato 2 c. brown sugar 

2 c. chopped sweet apples ^ c. molasses 

| c. cracker crumbs | c. vinegar 

| c. butter i c. raisins 

i tbsp. each : i c. currants 

cinnamon mace 

cloves nutmeg 

Method : 

Mix all the ingredients except the butter and allow the mixture to 
cook slowly until thick. Add the butter just before removing from 
the fire. This mixture is sufficient for three pies. 



Turnovers 

Cut paste in squares and fold over the filling as triangles or in 
circles as half circles. 



Tarts 

Cover back of tin cups with paste, prick, bake, remove from crust 
and fill. Cut 2 circles of paste. Remove center of one and put the 
two circles together with cold water. Bake and place a small amount 
of filling in each. 

1 Students who grow their own tomatoes will find this an excellent way to utilize 
tomatoes which are still green at frost. 



PASTRY 241 

SCORE CARDS 

Two-crust Pie 

General appearance 20 

Form (5) 

Attractiveness (5) 

Design (5) 

Workmanship (5) 

Pastry 45 

Upper crust 

Flakiness (5) 

Tenderness (5) 

Surface (5) 

Palatability (5) 

Bake (10) 

Under crust 

Color (5) 

Bake (5) 

Rim (5) 

Filling 30 

Flavor (20) 

Consistency (5) 

Thoroughness of cooking (5) 

Ease of serving 5 

Too 
One-crust Pie 

General appearance 20 

Color (10) 

Shape (10) 

Pastry 35 

Color (5) 

Tenderness (5) 

Surface (5) 

Palatability (10) 

Bake (10) 

Filling 40 

Consistency (5) 

Flavor (30) 

Smoothness (5) 

Ease of serving . . , 5 

Too 
R 



242 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

One-crust Pie and Meringue 

General appearance 20 

Workmanship (10) 

Attractiveness (10) 
Pastry 30 

Color (5) 

Flakiness (5) 

Tenderness (5) 

Surface (5) 

Palatability (5) 

Condition (5) 
Filling 30 

Consistency (5) 

Smoothness (5) 

Flavor (20) 
Meringue 15 

Color (3) 

Surface (3) 

Lightness (3) 

Tenderness (3) 

Bake (3) 

Ease of serving 5 

100 



CHAPTER XVI 

FLOUR MIXTURES USING SOUR MILK, BUTTERMILK, 

SOUR CREAM 

Brown Bread 

Ingredients : 

2 c. graham flour i c. sour milk or butter- 

i c. corn meal milk 

i c. sweet milk | c. molasses 

1 tsp. soda i tsp. salt 

Method : 

Mix the graham flour well with the corn meal, sifting the soda and 
salt with the corn meal. Add the liquid ingredients and stir 
thoroughly. Bake in a well-greased covered pan or mold in a 
moderate oven two hours. 

Indian Bread 

Ingredients : 

2 c. corn meal 2 c. sour milk 
1 1 c. flour i c. molasses 
2 tsp. soda i tsp. salt 

Method : 

Sift soda, salt, and flour. Add the corn meal, mix well and 
add the liquid ingredients. Turn into a buttered mold and steam 3 
hours. 

Steamed Graham Bread 

Ingredients : 

i egg i c. sour milk 

i c. graham flour | c. molasses 

i c. wheat flour i tsp. soda 

| tsp. salt 

2 43 



244 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Sift the soda, salt, and wheat flour. Mix well with the graham 
flour, add the liquid ingredients and lastly the egg, slightly beaten. 
Turn into a well-greased mold and steam two hours. 

Corn Meal Gems 

Ingredients : 

i c. sweet milk | c. molasses 

3 tbsp. sour cream i tsp. soda 

i c. corn meal i c. wheat flour 

\ tsp. salt 
Method : 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Add the liquids and mix 
thoroughly. Turn into greased muflin tins, and bake in a moderate 
oven 12 minutes. 

Graham Pudding 

Ingredients : 

1 c. buttermilk or i c. molasses 
sour milk i c. raisins 

2 c. graham flour i tsp. soda 
i tsp. cinnamon \ tsp. salt 

Method : 

Mix the cinnamon, salt, and soda well with the graham flour. Add 
the liquid ingredients and the raisins. Mix thoroughly and turn 
into a buttered mold and allow it to steam three hours, or turn into 
individual molds and steam 45 minutes. 

Plum Pudding 

Ingredients : 

3 c. chopped suet i c. sour milk 
i c. molasses 2 eggs 

i c. sugar i tsp. nutmeg 

i Ib. raisins i tbsp. cinnamon 

i Ib. currants \ tsp. ginger 

\ Ib. citron i tsp. cloves 

i tsp. soda \ tsp. mace 

i c. bread crumbs 



FLOUR MIXTURES USING SOUR MILK 245 

Method : 

Wash and prepare the currants and raisins. Put through the 
meat grinder with the citron. Mix the finely chopped suet with the 
bread crumbs and thoroughly mix the spices, salt, and soda all 
through. Add this to the first mixture, add the molasses and sour 
milk and lastly the eggs slightly beaten. Turn into buttered molds 
and steam five hours. 

Dried Apple Cake 

Ingredients : 

i c. dried apples (soaked over- i egg 

night) 3^ c. flour 

i c. molasses i tsp. soda 

\ c. butter i c. sugar 

i c. buttermilk i tsp. cloves 

i tsp. cinnamon i tsp. nutmeg 

Method : 

Cook the molasses and dried apples until thick. Allow the mix- 
ture to cool. Cream the butter, add the sugar and egg slightly 
beaten. Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Add the milk and dry 
ingredients alternately to the egg mixture. Lastly add the molasses 
and apple. Mix thoroughly. Turn into a prepared pan and bake 
30 minutes in a moderate oven. 



Fruit Cake without Eggs 

Ingredients : 

1 c. sugar i c. sour milk 
4 tbsp. butter i c. raisins 

2 c. flour i tsp. soda 

\ tsp. salt i tsp. cinnamon 

\ tsp. cloves 

Method : 

Cream the butter, add the sugar and stir until the mixture is light- 
colored. Mix and sift the dry ingredients and add alternately to 
the first mixture. .Add the raisins and bake in a moderate oven 30 
minutes. 



246 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Spice Cake I 

Ingredients : 

\ c. butter \ c. sour milk 

\ c. sugar 2 c. flour 

\ c. molasses i tsp. soda 

1 egg \ tsp. cloves 

\ c. raisins \ tsp. cinnamon 

Method : 

Follow general directions for cake mixtures. Bake in very moder- 
ate oven 45 minutes. 

Spice Cake II 

Ingredients : 

f c. butter i c. buttermilk 

2 c. brown sugar 2 tsp. soda 

3 eggs 2 c. flour 

i tsp. cinnamon i tsp. cloves 

1 tsp. allspice i tsp. nutmeg 
Method : 

Follow general directions for cake mixture. Bake as a loaf cake 
40 minutes, or as a layer cake 30 minutes. 

Sugar Cookies 

Ingredients : 

2 c. sugar i c. sour cream 
2 eggs 2 tsp. soda 

i c. butter i tsp. cream of tartar 

flour to make a stiff dough 
Method : 

Follow general directions for cooky mixtures. 

Molasses Cookies I 

Ingredients : 

i egg i c. shortening 

1 c. sugar i c. buttermilk 

2 c. molasses i tsp. soda 

i tsp. ginger i tsp. cinnamon 

flour to make a stiff dough 
Method : 

Follow general directions for cooky mixtures. 



FLOUR MIXTURES USING SOUR MILK 247 

Molasses Cookies II 

Ingredients : 

i c. brown sugar i c. buttermilk 

i c. molasses i c. lard 

i tsp. salt i tsp. ginger 

1 1 tsp. soda flour to make a soft dough 

Soft Gingerbread 

Ingredients : 

\ c. sugar i c. buttermilk 

1 c. molasses i tsp. ginger 
j c. butter i tsp. cloves 

2 tsp. soda i\ c. flour 

2 eggs i tsp. cinnamon 

Method : 

Follow general rules for combining cake mixtures. Bake in a 
shallow pan 30 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Fried Cakes 

Ingredients : 

1 c. sugar \ c. sour cream 

2 eggs \ c. buttermilk 

i tsp. soda 2 tsp. baking powder 

i tsp. salt nutmeg 

flour to make a soft dough 

Doughnuts I 

Ingredients : 

1 c. sugar i tbsp. butter 

2 eggs i c. sour milk 
i tsp. soda nutmeg 

flour to make a soft dough 

Doughnuts II 

Ingredients : 

i c. sugar 3 tbsp. butter 

i c. thick sour milk i tsp. soda 

(beaten to a froth) | tsp. nutmeg 

flour to make a soft dough \ tsp. salt 



CHAPTER XVII 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 

THE American salad is a combination of meat, fish, poultry, fruit, or 
vegetables served on salad greens with a dressing. The oil of the 
dressing usually gives a high fuel value. If made with meat, fish, or 
poultry, the protein content may also be high ; if fruits and vegetables 
are used, the salad may be chiefly significant for the ash constituents 
which these furnish. 



1. Salad greens are : 

lettuce 

chicory 

romaine 

endive 

escarole 

water cress 

2. Foundation salads are : 

a. Meat 

chicken 
lamb 

b. Fish 

tuna 

c. Shellfish 

lobster 
shrimp 

d. Eggs 



white fish 



beet tops 

dandelions 

spinach 

celery 

cabbage 

chives 



veal 

sweetbread 

salmon 



crab 

scallops 



248 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



249 



e. Vegetables 

potatoes 

beets 

peas 

asparagus 

radishes 

/. Fruits 

cherries 

lemon 

apples 

pears 

green peppers 

white grapes 

g. Miscellaneous 

figs 
nuts 

Salad dressings are : 

French 
boiled 



cauliflower 



bananas 



cheese 



mixtures 



carrots 

onions 

beans 

cucumbers 

celery 



oranges 

grapefruit 

peaches 

apricots 

green tomatoes 

pineapple 



dates 
gelatin 



mayonnaise 
cream 



NOTE : The above salad dressings have many variations as to color, taste, 
and consistency, but the foundation is one of the five given. 



4. Variations in salad dressings 
a. French dressing l plus 

horseradish 

pimento 

chives 

beets, finely chopped 

parsley 

whipped cream 

hazelnuts 



Roquefort cheese 

chili sauce 

hard-cooked egg, minced 

green pepper 

celery, finely chopped 

pecans 

English walnuts 

1 Described in the next chapter. 



250 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

fruit juice in place of vinegar water cress 
raspberry vinegar, or tarra- pepper grass 

gon, used in place of 

cider vinegar 

b. Mayonnaise dressing l 

beaten white of egg whipped cream 

fruit juice in place of vinegar chili sauce 

green pepper, chopped pimento minced (puree) 

olives chives 

raspberry vinegar tabasco sauce 

sardines reduced to a paste 

c. Boiled dressings 

any variations as for mayonnaise 

Salads : when served : 

1. Formal meal 

green salad with French dressing or modification 

2. Informal meal 

a. any salad, provided the same ingredients are not repeated 

in another part of the meal 

b. any dressing 

3. Luncheon 

a. Formal 

green with French dressing 

fruit with French or mayonnaise dressing or modification 

chicken, if served in place of other meat in meal 

b. Informal 

any salad or dressing - - provided ingredients are not re- 
peated in other courses of meal 

4. Suppers 

meat 



fish 
shellfish 



used with any dressing or combination 



fruit 
miscellaneous 

1 Described in the next chapter. 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 251 



5. Light refreshments 
meat 
shellfish 
fruit 

asparagus 
miscellaneous 



used with any dressing or combination 



The attractive salad must embody the following points : 

freshness coolness 

crispness attractive color 

appetizing combination appropriateness to the meal 

harmonize with the decora- harmonize with the rest of 

tion and color of the china the meal 

in which it is served 

To prepare salad greens : 

a. Wash leaves and examine carefully for parasites, sand, etc. 
6. Pile leaves lightly on a cheesecloth, fold the cloth over and 
keep thus arranged on ice or near the ice, or 

c. Wash the leaves and place them in a tin pail which can be 

tightly covered. Set the pail in the ice box. Salad greens 
can be carried for a picnic in a pail and arrive in good 
condition. 

d. If salad greens are wilted, allow them to stand in cold or ice 

water for some time before attempting to prepare. 

Accessories served with salads : 

a. Breadstuffs 

bread sticks toast 

rolls cheese tea biscuits 

cheese straws cheese crackers 

toasted crackers saltines 
educator crackers 

b. Other accessories 

cheese balls toasted cheese 

fried cheese balls celery : curls, pieces, 

radishes hearts 

olives : ripe, green, stuffed Bar le Due currants 

nuts : salted, unsalted 



252 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Salads may be made in the greatest variety of combinations : among 
the most popular are : 

1. Meat 

a. chicken, celery 

chicken, celery, sour apple, pine nuts 
chicken, celery, pine nuts, tiny sections lemon 

b. veal, celery 

veal, chicken, celery 

c. lamb, celery 

d . sweet bread, endive cut in sections 

2. Fish 

a. tuna, celery 
6. salmon, celery 

salmon, cabbage 

salmon, cucumber, gelatin 
c. white fish, celery 

3. Shellfish 

a. lobster, celery 

b. crab, celery 

c. scallops 

4- Egg 

egg, green pepper 
egg, pimento 
egg, potato 

5. Vegetables 

a. potato 

French dressing potato, chives 

boiled dressing potato, parsley 

potato, carrot potato, egg 

potato, beets potato, cucumber, green 

potato, German onions pepper 

&. carrot 

grated raw, boiled, or cooked 
carrot, peas 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 253 

c. beets, potato 

beets, peas 

beets, stuffed with cabbage 

d. onions 

German onions, tomato 

onions, cucumber 

onion, dressing as sandwich 

e. peas, carrots 

peas, string beans 

peas, potato each in a lettuce cup 
/. beans 

string beans 

lima beans 

baked beans 
g. asparagus 

pimento 

green pepper 
h. cucumbers, radishes 

celery 
i. cauliflower, tart dressing 

6. Fruits 

a. white cherries, pieces pineapple 

white cherries, balls of pear, apple, or peach 

b. orange, grapefruit orange, water cress 
orange, pineapple orange, almonds 
orange, lemon, walnuts 

c. grapefruit, pineapple 

d. apple, celery, nuts 
apple, water cress 

e. peach halves filled with mayonnaise and nuts 

peach halves stuck with almonds covered with mayonnaise 
pears used as peaches 
/. fresh apricots, almonds, or pine nuts 
g. green pepper 

sliced or chopped 
stuffed with : 



254 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

cream cheese and mayonnaise 
cream cheese and pimento 
yellow cheese and mayonnaise 

American cheese and green and red pepper chopped very 
fine 

filled with : 

( i c. water juice i lemon 

jellied mayonnaise < , . 

I 2 tsp. gelatin i c. mayonnaise 

tarragon jelly mixed with chopped cabbage, celery, pimento 

red pepper - - use as green pepper 
h. tomato 

sliced 

cut in halves, cover cut surface with stiff mayonnaise, over 
this chopped green pepper 

poinsettia 

cut skin and pulp in sections as petals of poinsettia 
remove part of pulp and seeds and fill cavity with 

chopped celery and green pepper 
i. cucumbers 

tomato and cucumber slices 

variations given with potato 
j. pineapple 

circles, nuts 

circles cut to make sections, roll of cream cheese 

between each section 

see white cherries, orange, grapefruit 
k. bananas 

banana, finely chopped peanuts 

7. Miscellaneous 

figs, dates, nuts, cream dressing 

dates, stuffed with cream cheese, mayonnaise dressing 

dates, almonds, mayonnaise dressing 

dates, Brazil nuts, mayonnaise dressing 

gelatin given 

Fruits and vegetables may be cut in cubes, balls, shredded, or fancy 
shapes. Containers may be made of orange or lemon rind, apples, 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 255 

peppers, tomatoes, peaches, pears, cabbage leaves, lettuce hearts, 
whole cabbage, beet shells, cucumbers, romaine leaves. 

Sandwiches 

General Rules. 

1 . Bread should be a day old, unless it is going to be rolled. White, 
graham, or Boston brown may be used. Sometimes two kinds are 
used in the same sandwich. Slice as thin as possible, remove crusts 
if desired, keeping the slices in pairs, then cut the desired shape. 
To give variety, bread may be cut in fancy shapes, hearts, triangles, 
squares, rectangles, circles, etc. The center may be removed from a 
white bread sandwich with a tiny cutter and the hole filled in with a 
piece of brown bread the size of the piece removed. 

2. Cream the butter by rubbing it against the sides of a bowl with 
a wooden spoon. 

3. Butter one side of the sandwich and put filling on the other side. 
Press lightly together. 

4. Wrap sandwiches in paraffin paper. Large numbers may be 
placed in a crock and covered with a damp towel and plate. 

5. Save crusts of bread. Dry and grate for fine crumbs for cro- 
quettes. 

6. Meat and poultry fillings are best when the meat is chopped. 

7. Serve sandwiches in a basket or on a plate covered with a doily. 

Sandwiches 

Conveyor of filling : 
Bread 

white Boston brown 

entire wheat nut 

graham raisin 

Gingersnaps 

cheese fillings are best with gingersnaps 
Crackers 

Educator Saltines 

fillings fillings 

cheese cheese 

marmalade nut 

fig date marmalade 



256 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Toast 

fillings 

marmalade 

fig 

date 

salad 

Fillings for sandwiches : 
Meat: 

ham chopped, seasoned 

ham chopped, sauce tar tare 

ham - - chopped, hard-cooked eggs 

ham chopped, hard-cooked eggs, white sauce 

tongue, corned beef, lamb, veal, poultry or a combination of 
any of the above 

Baked beans : 
Salad : 

poultry, veal or lamb chopped, celery, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

cucumber, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

egg, mayonnaise, lettuce 

olive, cream cheese, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

egg, olives, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

lobster, celery, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

shrimp, celery, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

tuna fish, celery, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

salmon, celery, mayonnaise, lettuce leaf 

lettuce, mayonnaise 

lettuce, mayonnaise, sliced tomatoes 

Cheese : 
American cheese - - moistened with vinegar, anchovy essence, or 

sardine paste 

American cheese sliced ; dill pickles sliced, highly seasoned 
cream cheese - - moistened with cream 
cream cheese - - moistened with mayonnaise 
cream cheese, pimento 
cream cheese, walnuts or peanuts 
cream cheese, olives 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 257 

cream cheese, French dressing, pecans 

cream cheese, green and red peppers 

cream cheese, dairy cheese grated, highly seasoned 

cottage cheese, green peppers 

cottage cheese, parsley finely chopped 

Nut: 

walnuts or any nuts chopped, cream 
walnuts or any nuts chopped, mayonnaise 

Sour: 

sweet pickles, olives, red pepper, dressing 
sour pickles, green pepper, celery, dressing 
olives, celery, red pepper, dressing 
cucumber, green pepper, mayonnaise 
chives, tomato, cut fine, cucumber 

Miscellaneous : 
chopped dates, cream cheese 
sweet chocolate ; preserved ginger, chopped, moistened with 

ginger sirup 

chopped dates, walnuts or any other kind of nut 
jelly, walnuts 
preserved ginger, walnuts 
figs, raisins, dates, nuts 
peanuts, raisins 
orange marmalade, nuts 
prunes, walnuts, lemon juice 

Fig Paste 

I Ib. figs \ I c. nuts 



t Ib. figs \ i c. nuts 

> cook to a paste . . , , 

j c. water J juice f lemon 

Orange Honey 

i c. sugar i 

\ c. water > boil to thread stage 

\ c. orange juice J 

add 

| c. orange peel chopped | tsp. vanilla 

Bring to boiling point and cool 
s 



258 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Fancy Sandwiches 
Rolled 

Remove crusts from very fresh loaf of sandwich bread. Remove 
long slice of bread, spread with butter and a mixture of celery, green 
and red pepper, and mayonnaise. Roll like jelly roll. Cut across in 
|-inch slices. 

Club - 

toasted bread lettuce 

chicken broiled bacon 

tomato mayonnaise 

Fairmont 

Spread three oblongs of bread with butter on both sides, 2 slices 
on one side. Put together with mixture of green and red peppers, 
celery, and mayonnaise. Wrap in cheesecloth and press under a 
weight. Slice. 

Spanish 

2 anchovies 2 pickles 

i piece parsley 2 tbsp. oil 

Pound and add : 

i tsp. prepared mustard 2 tbsp. oil 

yolks 2 hard-boiled eggs whites 2 hard-boiled eggs 

Checkers 

Cut three thick slices each white and brown bread. Spread one 
white with butter and cream cheese and place brown on it. Spread 
this slice and place a white slice on it. 

Repeat this process, starting with a brown slice. 

Put each in cheesecloth under weights. Trim and cut each in 3^- 
inch slices. Spread with butter and put together so that a white 
block alternates with a brown. Press again and slice thin. 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



259 



FOOD VALUES 
Vegetable Salad with Mayonnaise Dressing 













w 












MATERIAL 


w 
5 
P 

05 


1 


OTEIN 

rams 


H G 


HYDRAT 

rams 


i-3 i> 

n'g 
oJ2 


o 





1: 

o*e 

E tn C 
H g 







u 


^^ 


o 


O 


O 




u 


< uO 


en r ,i 
O ^ ^^ 






^ 


"^ 


MH 




P4 


^^ 




W rf 


W"rt 














< 






u 


0H(J 














U 




$ 


^-^ 


*-' 




Peas. . . . 


2 tbsp. 


40. 


1.44 


.008 


3-92 


22 


.006 


.007 


.052 


.0003 


Beans . 


2 tbsp. 


30.5 


33 


03 


I-I5 


6 


.006 


.01 


.017 


.0002 


Cauliflower 


i tbsp. 


23.6 


42 


.118 


I.I 


7 


.008 


.038 


.031 




Lettuce 


2 leaves 


31-7 


.38 


095 


.91 


6 


.009 


.015 


.028 


.0003 


Mayonnaise . 


i tbsp. 


14.4 


Si 


4.41 




IOO 


.0098 


.005 


.031 


.0003 


Total . . . 


6 tbsp. 


140.2 


3-o8 


4.66 


7.08 


141 


.0392 


075 


159 


.001 1 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion . 


4J tbsp. 


98.9 


2.17 


3-28 


4-99 


IOO 


.0276 


.0052 


.Oil 


.0007 



Romaine or Lettuce Salad 



Romaine . 


i head 


226.2 


2.71 


.68 


6.56 


43 


.06 


.III 


.202 


.OO2 


Olive oil . . 


5 tbsp. 


55-5 




55-5 




500 


.049 


.007 


.009 


.0001 


Vinegar 


2 tbsp. 


29-3 










.003 








Mustard . . 


i tsp. 


2.8 










.003 








Pepper and salt 


I tsp. 


2.6 










.005 








Total . . . 


1 5 leaves 


316.4 


2.71 


56.18 


6.56 


543 


.12 


.118 


.211 


.0021 




*c. 






















dressing 




















loo-Calorie j 
Portion [ 


3 leaves 
f tbsp. 
dressing 


60.78 


5 


10.38 


1. 21 


IOO 


.022 


.O2O 


.038 


.0004 



Wholewheat Bread and Cheese Sandwich 



Loaf bread 






















(trimmed) . 


i 


231.4 


22.45 


2.08 


115.11 


569 


035 


.062 


.426 


.0017 


Butter . . . 


5^ tbsp. 


99.2 


99 


84.32 




763 


.079 


.022 


0305 




Cream cheese . 


f Pkg. 


62.3 


161.36 


20.99 


i-5 


260 


037 


.78 


1.04 


.0003 


Total . . . 


24 


392.9 


184.8 


107-39 


116.61 


1592 


151 


.864 


1.4965 


.0020 


i oo- Calorie 






















Portion . . 


ii 


24-36 


11.46 


6.66 


7-32 


IOO 


.009 


.0318 


.0897 


.OOOI 



Notice that in the sandwich the butter furnished more than half of the 
total energy value (calories) , in the vegetable salad the oil of the mayonnaise 
furnished two-thirds of the calories, and in the lettuce salad the oil used as 
dressing furnished over ten times as much energy as the lettuce itself. 



CHAPTER XVIII 
SALAD DRESSINGS 

EXPERIMENTS WITH OILS 

194. a. Prepare French dressing, using recipe II given below 
(pp. 261-262). 

b. Again use this recipe, substituting for the vinegar the 

following : 

tarragon vinegar 

wine vinegar 

lemon juice 

^ lemon juice, \ orange juice 

grapefruit juice 

pineapple juice 

c. Again use this recipe, substituting for the olive oil the 
following oils : 

^ olive oil, ^ cottonseed 

cottonseed 

peanut 

corn 

melted butter 

NOTE : The instructor may further test the above oils by using various fruit 
acids with each, as some fruit acids blend well with the olive oil 
substitutes. 

195. - - a. Prepare mayonnaise dressing, using the recipe below 
(P- 263). 

b. Prepare other mixtures, substituting in turn the following : 

\ cottonseed, f olive oil 
| cottonseed, \ olive oil 
f cottonseed, \ olive oil 
cottonseed oil (Wesson) 

260 



SALAD DRESSINGS 261 

\ peanut oil, \ olive oil 
peanut oil 

\ corn oil, \ olive oil 
\ corn oil, f olive oil 
corn oil 

196. a. Prepare mayonnaise dressing by the usual method, sub- 
stituting for the egg yolks, egg yolks which have been hard cooked. 
Compare with the dressing prepared from the uncooked egg yolks. 

b. Reduce the number of egg yolks \ and prepare mayon- 
naise by the usual recipe. Add to this a partly stiffened gelatin 
mixture of i c. water, i tsp. lemon juice, 2 tsp. gelatin. Beat the 
mixture thoroughly and place in the ice box for twenty-four hours. 

197. Prepare mayonnaise as in 196, b, but instead of adding 
gelatin mixture add i tbsp. boiling water and beat it thoroughly. 
Allow this to remain in ice box twenty-four hours. Compare with 
that in 196, b. 

Summarize the results of Expts. 194-197: 

a. From the standpoint of the chemical and physical proper- 
ties of the substances used and their behavior under the treatment to 
which they were subjected. 

b. With reference to the feasibility of making salad dress- 
ings from a wide variety of materials. 

The refined cottonseed, corn (maize), peanut, and olive oils of 
commerce are practically identical in food value. The substitution 
of one of the cheaper oils for olive oil in any of the following recipes 
will not alter the food value of the product. 

SALAD DRESSINGS 

French Dressing I 

Ingredients : 

\ tsp. salt 2 tbsp. vinegar (cider) 

\ tsp. pepper 4 tbsp. olive oil 

Method : 

Mix ingredients and stir until well blended. Some prefer the 
addition of a few drops of onion juice. French dressing is more easily 
prepared and more commonly used than any other dressing. 



262 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

French Dressing II 

Ingredients : 

% tsp. salt i tbsp. vinegar 

^ tsp. pepper 3 tbsp. olive oil 

Method : 

Proceed as above. 

Spanish Dressing 

Ingredients : 

i tsp. salt 2 tbsp. chili sauce 

I tsp. paprika i tbsp. vinegar 

i tbsp. horseradish 3 tbsp. olive oil 

Method : 

Mix all ingredients and blend thoroughly. Serve on green salad. 

Cream Dressing 

Ingredients : 

| tbsp. salt i egg slightly beaten 

^ tbsp. mustard 2^ tbsp. melted butter 

f tbsp. sugar f c. cream 

^ c. vinegar 

Method : 

Mix ingredients in order given, adding vinegar very slowly. Cook 
over boiling water, stirring constantly until mixture thickens, strain 
and cool. 

Boiled Dressing 

Ingredients : 

| tbsp. salt \ tbsp. flour 

i tsp. mustard yolks 2 eggs 

cayenne i^ tbsp. melted butter 

\ c. vinegar f c. milk 

Method : 

Mix dry ingredients, add yolks of eggs slightly beaten, butter, 
milk, and vinegar very slowly. Cook over boiling water, stirring 
constantly until mixture thickens. Strain and cool. 



SALAD DRESSINGS 



263 



Ingredients : 

i tsp. salt 
cayenne 
yolks 2 eggs 

Method : 



Mayonnaise Dressing 



2 tbsp. lemon juice 
2 tbsp. vinegar 
i c. olive oil 



Mix dry ingredients, add egg yolks, and when well mixed, add \ tea- 
spoon vinegar. Add oil gradually, drop by drop at first, and stir con- 
stantly. As mixture thickens, thin with vinegar or lemon juice. 
Add oil and acid alternately until all is used, stirring or beating 
constantly. If oil is added too rapidly, dressing will have a curdled 
appearance. A smooth consistency may be restored by taking yolk 
of another egg and adding curdled mixture slowly to it. It is 
desirable to have bowl containing mixture placed in a larger bowl 
of crushed ice. i teaspoon powdered sugar may be added to the 
dressing if the flavor is desired. 



FOOD VALUES 



Mayonnaise 









| 


H 














w 








H 









3 




MATERIAL 


et 

in 


S < 

H C 
B| 


@1 

o -< 


en 

H E 

< rt 


II 

ag 


d 8 

^'i 

o-2 


H 

8 

r \ 


n 2 H 

^ rt 2 


%< 

K "> 

g cS g 


tn 

Z Q 

o 5 

erf i-i 




W 






O 


r*i 
M u 


Hrt 
rj 


U 




S 60 






^q 


*^ 


rH 







NM"* 




w* (^ 


Wrt 




















u 
















O 




$ 




' ' 




Egg yolks . . 


2 


45-6 


7.16 


16.18 




165 


.0165 


.082 


449 


.0038 


Vinegar 


i tbsp. 


17-5 


i 


i 


1 


1 


.001 








Oil .... 


fc. 


135-3 




135-3 




1218 


1193 








Mustard . . 


i tsp. 


2 


















Salt .... 


1 tsp. 




















Total . . . 


I C. 


2OO-4 


7.16 


151.48 




1383 


1363 


.082 


449 


.0038 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion . 


i tbsp. 


14.48 


.512 


4.41 




IOO 


.009 


.005 


.031 


.0003 



1 The small amounts of food substances in the vinegar are considered negligible. 



264 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



French Dressing 













H 






f _^ 


^^ 














H 








wS 






a 




+? 




< 








5Q 




MATERIAL 


H 

& 
in 

a 

a 


6 

!? JS 
H >i 




Sg 

si 

o 
PH 


<i 


RBOHYDI 

Grams 


hJ ^ 

|| 


H 
Cfl 



u 


<_6O 


S^s 

eal 

W r h 

o_oG 
Wla 


en 

|| 












3 






rj 


PMU 














O 




$ 


' 


*~* 




Olive oil . . 


6 tbsp. 


68 




68 




612 


.0588 








Vinegar . . 


2 tbsp. 


38 


1 


i 


1 


1 


.003 








Salt .... 






















Pepper . . . 






















Paprika . . 






















Total . . . 


Ic. 


106 




68 




612 


.0618 








loo-Calorie 






















Portion . . 


i| tbsp. 


17-3 




ii 




IOO 


.0105 









Boiled Dressing 



Butter . . . 


i tsp. 


5-6 


05 


4.76 




43 


.0052 


.0012 


.0017 




Sugar . . . 


i tsp. 


5-7 






5-7 


22 


.0006 








Flour 


i tsp. 


5-5 


.61 


.005 


4.11 


19 


.0003 


.0013 


.0094 


.0001 


Egg yolks . . 


2 


36.6 


5-74 


12. 18 




133 


.0366 


.066 


35 


.003 


Cream . . . 


i tbsp. 


18.1 


39 


7.24 


54 


69 


.008 


.04 


.068 


.0001 


Vinegar . . 


2 tbsp. 








i 


1 


.003 








Total . . . 


9 tbsp. 


71-5 


6.79 


24.18 


10.35 


286 


.0537 


.1085 


.4291 


.0031 


100 Calorie 






















Portion . 


3 tbsp. 


24-95 


2-37 


3-6i 


3-6i 


IOO 


.0177 


037 


.1501 


.0010 



REFERENCES 

Otis 

Cotton Seed and its Products. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Farmers' Bulletin 36. 

LEACH. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

MOORE. Experiments with Edible Oils. Arkansas Agricultural 
Experiment Station, Bulletin 78 (1903). 

1 The small amounts of food substances in the vinegar are considered negligible. 



SALAD DRESSINGS 265 

SHERMAN. Food Products. 

SHERMAN. Organic Analysis. 

SIMMONS and MITCHELL. Edible Fats and Oils. 

TOLMAN and MUNSON. Olive Oil and its Substitutes. United 

States Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 77 (1902). 
WALKER. Coconuts and Coconut Oil. Philippine Journal of Science, 

Vol. i, pages 58-117 (1906). 
WILEY. Foods and their Adulterations. 



CHAPTER XIX 
DESSERTS 

Steamed Puddings 

General Rules. 

Mix as cake. Do not sift graham or entire wheat flour. Molds 
and covers should be well greased. The length of time for steaming 
depends on the size of pudding ; 1-6 hours. After steaming, remove 
cover and place in hot oven a minute to dry. Remove from tin and 
serve with a hard or liquid sauce. 



Steamed Indian Pudding 

Ingredients : 

\ c. meal | c. suet 

\ c. flour \ c. molasses 

i tsp. salt \ c. sour milk 

i tsp. soda i c. raisins 

Method : 

Sift dry ingredients and add to the suet mixed with molasses and 
milk. Add the fruit, beat well, and steam. 



Date Pudding 

Ingredients : 

6 tbsp. butter | tsp. salt 

i c. molasses f tsp. clove 

i c. milk I tsp. allspice 

3^ c. flour I tsp. nutmeg 

i tsp. soda Ib. dates - - chopped 

266 



DESSERTS 



267 



Ingredients : 



Fig Pudding 



| Ib. suet 

^ Ib. figs chopped 

2\ c. bread crumbs 



\ c. milk 
2 eggs 
i c. sugar 



Ingredients : 



i c. suet 
i c. molasses 
i c. milk 
3 c. flour 
i tsp. soda 
1 1 tsp. salt 



Hunters' Pudding 



\ tsp. cloves 
\ tsp. mace 
\ tsp. allspice 

1 tsp. cinnamon 
i^ c. raisins 

2 tbsp. flour 



Fruit Pudding (Plum) 
Ingredients : 

i Ib. currants 
i Ib. raisins 
I Ib. citron 
5 Ib. orange peel 
j Ib. lemon peel 
i Ib. brown sugar 



i Ib. suet 

i Ib. bread crumbs 



i tsp. salt 

i c. flour 

4 tsp. cinnamon 

i tsp. nutmeg 

i tsp. allspice 

8 eggs 

i c. brandy 

i c. sherry 



juice and rind i lemon 



Ingredients : 

\ c. butter 

i c. sugar 

c. milk 



Snow Balls 



2\ c. flour 

3 \ tsp. baking powder 

whites 4 eggs 



Individual molds. Serve with jam. 



268 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Pudding Sauces 

CLASSIFICATION : 

Cold. A butter foundation using granulated, brown, or confec- 
tioners' sugar. 

Hot. A foundation of water or fruit juice thickened with eggs, 
sago, arrowroot, cornstarch, or flour. 

Flavors : 

The following may be used as flavoring : 

fresh fruit vanilla 

fruit flavors cooking brandy 

spices 

SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS 

Hard Sauce 

Ingredients : 

\ c. butter i| tsp. vanilla or 

i c. powdered sugar \ tsp. nutmeg 

Method : 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, beating until light and creamy. 
Add flavoring. Chill thoroughly before serving. 

Sterling Sauce 

Ingredients : 

\ c. butter i tsp. vanilla or lemon 

i c. brown sugar or soft maple sugar 4 tbsp. cream 

Lemon Sauce 

Ingredients : 

1 c. sugar 2 c. boiling water 

2 tbsp. flour i lemon, juice and rind 

2 tbsp. butter 
Method, : 

Mix sugar and flour, add water slowly and boil 15 minutes, stirring 
occasionally. When ready to serve, add butter and lemon. 



DESSERTS 269 

Cream Sauce 

Ingredients : 

i egg \ c. thick cream 

1 c. powdered sugar \ c. milk 

| tsp. vanilla 
Method : 

Beat white of egg until stiff; add well-beaten yolk and sugar. 
Dilute cream with milk and whip. Combine mixtures and flavor. 

Vanilla Sauce 

Ingredients : 

2 c. boiling water i c. butter 
\ tsp. salt i c. sugar 
2 tbsp. cornstarch i egg 

i tsp. vanilla 
Method : 

Combine cornstarch and salt, mix with a little cold water, and add 
to the boiling water. Boil 5 minutes, stirring constantly. Cream 
the butter and sugar, add beaten egg and vanilla. Add to first mix- 
ture. Beat well. 

Sabayon Sauce 

Ingredients : 

grated rind and juice \ lemon \ c. sugar 

\ c. orange juice 2 eggs 

Method : 

Mix lemon, orange juice, sugar, and yolks of eggs; stir vigorously 
over fire until it thickens, using a wire whisk or perforated spoon ; 
pour on to whites of eggs beaten stiff ; serve hot. 

FROZEN DESSERTS 

Frozen desserts may well be included more frequently in 
planning meals for the family dietary. They are refreshing, 
give a great opportunity for variety, and when made in the 
home are very economical. 



270 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

The selling price of commercial ice cream must be consider- 
ably higher than the cost of the ingredients because of the 
perishable nature of the product and the uncertainty of 
the demand. Homemade ice cream is therefore usually 
much cheaper than commercial - - with the added advantage 
of greater certainty as to the quality of the materials 
used. 

Ice cream is a fairly concentrated food material, while an 
ice is essentially a frozen beverage and is chiefly valuable for 
the fruit juices it contains. Frozen mixtures are cooling and 
refreshing, and when made in the home are economical desserts. 

EXPERIMENTS 

198. - - Freezing mixtures : 

The usual proportions of ice and salt for freezing mixtures are as 

follows : 

a. i part ice, i part salt 

b. 2 parts ice, i part salt 

c. 3 parts ice, i part salt 

d. 4 parts ice, i part salt 

Make each of these mixtures and determine as in a physics labora- 
tory experiment the minimum temperature reached by each. 

199. - - a. Prepare one recipe each of lemon ice, plain ice cream, 
and caramel cream. 

b. Divide each recipe into four equal parts, A, B, C, D. 

c. Freeze as follows ; record temperature of freezing mix- 
tures throughout the experiment. Record temperature of frozen 

product. 

A. frozen by 198, a. 

B. frozen by 198, b. 

C. frozen by 198, c. 

D. frozen by 198, d. 

NOTE : In each case turn the freezer evenly and quickly until mixtures are 
frozen, or until you are satisfied mixtures will not freeze. 



DESSERTS 271 

d. Compare results. Note time of freezing, consistency of 
product, fineness of grain, flavor. 

200. Prepare one recipe of lemon ice. Divide into four parts ; 
use the freezing mixture most successful in 199, c, and freeze the ice 
as follows : 

a. Let freeze without stirring 

b. Stir occasionally 

c. Stir constantly very fast 

Compare results. What is the difference in consistency and to 
what due? 

201. - - Use the fourth part of the lemon ice prepared in 200, 
and add to it a small amount of gelatin (see rule for lemon 
jelly and add corresponding amount of gelatin to liquid). Freeze 
ice by stirring constantly and compare the result with the ices 
previously made. Of what value is gelatin in a frozen mixture? 
Could whites of eggs be used ? 

NOTE : Would it be possible to use sugar in place of salt in a freezing mix- 
ture? 

202. Prepare i c. of lemon ice, put in a pint jar and freeze, using 
sugar instead of salt. Why does the sugar lower the temperature 
and cause the lemon ice to freeze ? 

NOTE : These experiments are very enlightening and interesting if glass 
containers for the frozen mixture are used. Preserving jars, 
cream jars, or jelly glasses serve the purpose. 

203. a. Prepare one " quantity " of ice cream. Divide into four 
equal parts, A, B, C, D. 

b. Freeze and pack A in a freezer having a wooden con- 
tainer for the ice. 

c. Freeze and pack B in a freezer having a galvanized iron 
container. 

d. Freeze and pack C in a glass jar. 

e. Freeze D in any freezer but pack in the fireless cooker. 
Allow all to stand 4 hours. Compare as to conductivity of containers. 



272 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Fillers in Ice Cream 

a. Kinds 

1. Starchy, wheat, rice, and cornstarch. 

2. Egg, used in French ice cream. 

b. Purposes 

1. Gives firmer body. 

2. Better standing-up qualities. 

c. Advantages 

1. Increases keeping qualities. 

2. Improves texture. 

d. Disadvantages 

1. Egg and starchy fillers have to be cooked. 

2. Cannot be kept in stock form. 

3. In excess gives soggy cream. 

4. In excess reduces the swell. 

Binders in Ice Cream 

a. Kinds 

1. Gelatin - - animal origin. Dissolved in boiling water or milk 
and added at once. 

2. Gum tragacanth - -vegetable origin. Is replacing gelatin. 

b. Purpose - - to bind the mixture and improve texture. 

c. Advantages 

1. Prevents grainy texture. 

2. Keeps water from forming crystals. 

d. Disadvantages 

1. Slight inferiority of gelatin may be disguised by other in- 
gredients. 

2. Allows a warmer holding temperature, which permits more 
rapid deterioration. 

Ice Cream Powders 

Powdered gelatin and gum tragacanth to which is added 2-3 times 
its weight in sugar. 



DESSERTS 273 

Classification of Frozen Desserts 

1. Ices. Fruit juices, diluted and sweetened. 

a. Sherbet. Ice containing gelatin or egg whites. 

b. Milk sherbet. Fruit juices and milk, sweetened. 

c. Frappe. Partly frozen ices. 

d. Punch. Sherbet highly flavored with liquid, fruit juices, or 
spice. 

e. Souffle. Sherbet containing the whole egg. 

2. Ice Cream 

a. Philadelphia. 1 Cream, flavored and sweetened. 

b. French. 1 Cream, custard, flavored and sweetened. 

3. Par fait. Cream, sugar, and egg whites with or without fruits, 
nuts, or flavorings. 

4. Mousse. Frozen whipped cream, sweetened and flavored. 

5. Pudding. Cream, custard, fruit, and nuts highly flavored. 

6. Lacto. Sour, skimmed, or whole milk, eggs and sugar, flavored. 

7. Junket. Frozen junket. 

ICE CREAMS AND ICES 

General Rules for Freezing. 

Scald the can, cover, and dasher of freezer before using them. 
Adjust the can carefully in the tub before packing. 
Pack freezer up to lower edge of cover, pour in mixture, readjust 
and pack to completely cover the can. 
For freezing, use : 

3 parts finely chopped ice 
i part rock salt 

For packing after freezing, use : 

4 parts ice 

i part rock salt 

1 These terms are not always used in the sense here given. By some, "Philadel- 
phia ice cream" is understood to mean one whose ingredients have been cooked 
before freezing. 

T 



274 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

For freezing cream, the crank should be turned slowly and steadily. 

When mixture is frozen, remove ice and salt from top of can, wipe 
cover and top, uncover and carefully remove dasher. Cover and 
put a stopper in cover. Drain off all the water which has collected 
in the tub during freezing; repack with ice and salt (4-1), cover 
with something heavy and allow to stand several hours to ripen. 



Vanilla Ice Cream 

Ingredients : 

i qt. cream f c. sugar 

i tsp. vanilla 
Method : 

Scald \ the cream, add the sugar, remainder of cream and vanilla. 
Cool and freeze according to directions. 



Chocolate Sauce 

Ingredients : 

i oz. chocolate i tbsp. butter 

i c. sugar \ c. water 

i tsp. vanilla 
Method : 

Melt chocolate, add butter, sugar, water. Boil 15 minutes, cool, 
and add vanilla. 

Strawberry Ice Cream 

Ingredients : 

i qt. berries 2 c. sugar 

i qt. cream 
Method : 

Mash berries, add sugar and let stand i hour. Rub through a 
colander or fine strainer. Add the cream whipped. 



Frozen Custard I 

Ingredients : 

2 c. milk i tbsp. vanilla 

i c. sugar i pt. cream 

3 eggs 



DESSERTS 275 

Frozen Custard II 

Ingredients : 

2 c. scalded milk f tsp. salt 

1 c. sugar i qt. thin cream 
5 eggs 2 tbsp. vanilla 

Method : 

Make a custard of first four ingredients. Strain, cool, add cream 
and vanilla. Freeze. 

Caramel Ice Cream I 

Ingredients : 

2 c. milk 4 yolks 

1 c. sugar | c. sugar, caramelized 
| c. flour i qt. cream 

Method : 

Cook first three ingredients 20 minutes in double boiler, add yolks 
and cook 2 minutes. Add caramel, strain, cool, and add cream. 

Caramel Ice Cream II 

Ingredients : 

2 c. scalded milk i c. sugar 

i c. sugar | c. boiling water 

3 eggs i qt. thin cream 
| tsp. salt 2 tsp. vanilla 

Method : 

Make a custard of first four ingredients. Strain and cool. Cara- 
melize the i c. sugar and add the boiling water to it. Combine mix- 
tures, add cream and vanilla. Freeze. When half frozen, add i c. 
chopped nuts and raisins. 

Prune Ice Cream 

Ingredients : 

i c. prunes i c. sugar 

i^ c. water 4 tbsp. lemon juice 

i| c. cream (scalded) f tsp. salt 



276 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Method : 

Prepare the prunes for cooking and boil them in one and one half 
cups water until the pulp is soft. Rub the pulp through a strainer, 
add the sugar, lemon juice, salt, and scalded cream. 

Lacto Ice Cream 

Ingredients : 

i qt. sour milk i| c. sugar 

^ c. grape juice ^ c. lemon juice 

i egg 
Method : 

Beat the eggs in the grape juice until the liquid is somewhat 
thickened. Add this to the sour milk, to which has been added the 
sugar and lemon juice. 

Chocolate Ice Cream 

Ingredients : 

i c. water 2 oz. chocolate 

i c. sugar i qt. cream 

i tbsp. vanilla 
Method : 

Melt chocolate over hot water, add hot water and boil 5 minutes. 
Add salt and cool. Add cream and vanilla. 

Coffee Ice Cream 

Ingredients : 

| c. coffee c. boiling water 

Method : 

Make boiled coffee, add to recipe of plain frozen custard. Omit 
vanilla. 

SHERBETS 

Milk Sherbet 

Ingredients : 

i qt. milk or cream 2 c. sugar 

\ c. lemon juice rind i lemon 



DESSERTS 277 



Method : 

Let lemon juice and sugar stand i hour. Add milk. 



Orange Sherbet 

Ingredients : 

i qt. milk or cream i| c. sugar 

3 tbsp. lemon juice i c. orange juice 



Pineapple Sherbet 

Ingredients : 

i qt. milk or cream if c. sugar 

5 tbsp. lemon juice f c. orange juice 

i pineapple, grated 



Combination Sherbet 

Ingredients : 

4 c. water pulp of 2 oranges 

2 c. sugar pulp of 2 lemons 

pulp of 2 bananas 



ICES 

Lemon Ice 

Ingredients : 

4 c. water 2 c. sugar 

f c. lemon juice 

Method : 

Make a sirup by boiling sugar and water 5 minutes, add lemon 
juice, cool, strain, and freeze. 



Orange Ice 

Ingredients : 

4 c. water grated rind of 2 oranges 

2 c. sugar 2 c. orange juice 

I c. lemon juice 



278 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Frozen Grape Juice 
Follow recipe for orange ice, using 2 c. grape juice instead of orange. 

Frozen Apricots or Peaches 

Ingredients : 

i qt. can fruit i^ c. sugar 

water 
Method : 

Drain fruit and cut in small pieces. To the sirup, add enough 
water to make 4 cups, and cook with sugar 5 minutes ; strain, add 
fruit, cool, and freeze. 



Ingredients : 

4 c. water 
2 c. water 



Ingredients : 

4 c. water 
if c. sugar 

Ingredients : 

4 c. water 
i c. sugar 

Ingredients : 

4 c. water 



Ingredients : 



4 c. water 
if c. sugar 



Pineapple Ice 

juice 2 lemons 
juice 2 oranges 
pineapples, grated 



Strawberry Ice 



2 c. strawberry juice 
2 tbsp. lemon juice 



Raspberry Ice 



2 c. raspberry juice 
juice | lemon 



Currant Ice 



2 c. currant juice 



if c. sugar 
Currant and Raspberry 



f c. raspberry juice 
if c. currant juice 



DESSERTS 279 

Mint Ice 

Ingredients : 

4 c. water juice 2 lemons 

2 c. sugar leaves of 12 stalks of mint 

Ginger Ice 

Ingredients : 

4 c. water | Ib. Canton ginger cut in 

i c. sugar pieces 

1 c. lemon juice f c. orange juice 

PUDDINGS 

Frozen Pudding 

Ingredients : 

2 c. milk tsp. salt 

2 eggs i qt. cream 

6 tbsp. flour 2 tbsp. rum 

i c. sugar 4 tbsp. madeira 

i tsp. vanilla i tbsp. brandy 

i c. maraschino cherries 
Method : 

Cook flour and milk 20 minutes in a double boiler, stirring until it 
thickens. Pour over the eggs and sugar. Return to double boiler 
and cook a little longer, stirring constantly. Strain, cool, and add 
remaining ingredients. 

Nesselrode Pudding 

Ingredients : 

i c. sugar i c. almonds shelled 

i c. chestnuts i c. cream 

i c. boiling water i c. canned pineapple 

| Ib. candied fruit yolks 3 eggs 

^ tbsp. vanilla 

2 tbsp. sherry 
Method : 

Shell chestnuts, remove from skin, boil until soft and press through 
a colander. Blanch, dry, and pound almonds. Add fruit cut in 



280 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

small pieces. Boil sugar and water 15 minutes, and pour over the 
well-beaten yolks. Cook in a double boiler until egg thickens. 
Cool, beating constantly. Add other ingredients. After freezing let 
ripen 4-5 hours. 

Sauce for Nesselrode Pudding 

Ingredients : 

3 egg yolks i| c. whipped cream 

3 tbsp. powdered sugar | tsp. vanilla 

Method : 

Beat eggs until thick, add sugar and beat again. Stir in a double 
boiler until it thickens slightly. Pour into a bowl and beat until 
creamy. Add flavoring and cream ; i tbsp. brandy or wine may be 
added. 

Baked Alaska 

Turn i qt. brick Vanilla Ice Cream out on an oblong sponge cake. 
Cover with a meringue made of 4 whites of eggs. Brown in a very 
hot oven. Place the cake on a paper, on a board, before turning out 
the ice cream. 

Ice Cream Molds 

Freeze the cream very hard. Pack solidly into the mold, cover 
and wrap with several thicknesses of paper. Tie with strong cord 
and pack. 

MOUSSES 

Coffee Mousse 

Ingredients : 

i pt. cream i c. black coffee 

\ c. powdered sugar \ tsp. salt 

Method : 

Whip the cream, add sugar and coffee, turn mixture into a mold, 
pack in ice and salt, and let stand five hours. 



DESSERTS 281 

Chocolate Mousse 
Substitute 4 oz. melted chocolate for coffee in Coffee Mousse. 

Strawberry Mousse 
Substitute 2 c. mashed strawberries for coffee. 

Fruit Mousses 

Mix 2 c. of any fruit pulp, with powdered sugar to sweeten, with 
the whip from one pint cream. A small amount of lemon juice 
brings out the flavor of other fruits. 

Grape Juice Mousse 

Substitute i c. grape juice for coffee in the above direction for 
Coffee Mousse. 

PARFAITS 

Silver Parfait 

Ingredients : 

i c. sugar 3 egg whites 

i c. water i pt. cream 

flavoring 

Method : 

Boil sugar and water until it threads. Pour on to the beaten whites 
of eggs, add whip from cream, flavoring, pack in ice and salt, and 
let stand 4 hours. 



Golden Parfait 

Ingredients : 

i c. sugar 6 egg yolks 

^ c. water i pt. cream 



282 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

SCORE CARDS 

Sherbets and Ices 

Texture 20 

Consistency (10) 

Smoothness (10) 

Color 5 

Degree of freezing 10 

Freedom from water crystals 5 

Flavors 60 

Retained flavor (15) 

Imperceptibility of binder (35) 

Delicacy (10) 

100 



Philadelphia Ice Cream 

Texture 20 

Color . 5 

Flavor . 60 

Degree of freezing 15 

100 



Custard Ice Cream 

Texture 20 

Consistency (5) 

Smoothness (10) 

Condition of solid ingredients (5) 

Color 5 

Flavor 60 

Delicacy (30) 

Imperceptibility of filler (30) 

Degree of freezing 15 

100 



DESSERTS 



283 



FOOD VALUES 
Vanilla Ice Cream 













W 






















| 









i<5 




MATERIAL 


en 


Ba 

i 


01 

W g 

si 


tn 

<! c3 


N 

8 2 


1 <f> 

M ^ 

'C 
0^ 


H 
(A 
O 


rt 
5 CJ tn 
^ c/5 C 


!^ (N 

g^l 

U tn 5 

a g 


o o5 




W 


|o 








o r 
m u 




^a 




<jJO 

! '"rt 


S do 

B"rt 


M 












<J 






CJ 
















CJ 




$ 




^^ 




Cream . . . 


I C. 


246.1 


5-41 


98.44 


7.38 


937 


.125 


65 


93 


.0009 


Sugar . 


3 tbsp. 


38.4 






38.4 


153 


.0056 








Vanilla . . . 


i| tsp. 


3-3 










.0023 








Total, cooked 


ijc. 


270.4 


5-41 


98.44 


45.78 


1090 


.1329 


.65 


93 


.0009 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion . . 


2 tbsp. 


24.6 


49 


8.95 


4.16 


IOO 


.012 


059 


.084 


.0001 



Milk Sherbet 



Sugar . . . 


6 tbsp. 


78.6 






78.6 


314 


.0112 








Milk . . . 


|c. 


II5-7 


3-82 


4-63 


5-79 


80 


.025 


.19 


.24 


.0002 


Cream . . . 


*c. 


ii3-7 


2-5 


45.48 


3-41 


433 


.0625 


3 


43 


.0004 


Lemon juice . 


3 tbsp. 


39-9 






3-9i 


16 


.0167 


.012 


.009 




Total . . . 


iU- 


347-9 


6.32 


50.11 


91.71 


843 


1154 


.502 


.679 


.0006 


loo-Calorie 






















Portion . . 


2 tbsp. 


41.26 


4.89 


5-94 


10.88 


IOO 


.0136 


.06 


.081 


.0001 



REFERENCES 

Ice Cream 

ALEXANDER. Effect of Gelatin in IceC ream. Zeitschrift fur Chemie 
und Industrie der Kolloide, vol. 5, pages 101-103 ( I 99)- 

SHERMAN. Food Products. 

WASHBURN. Principles and Practice of Ice-Cream Making. Ver- 
mont Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 155. 

WILEY. Ice Cream. United States Public Health Service, Hygienic 
Laboratory, Bulletin 56, pages 249-312 (1909). 



CHAPTER XX 

SUGAR AND CANDY 

CANE SUGAR is found in the fruits and juices of many plants 
but the principal source is the sugar cane and the sugar beet. 
Cane sugar is made, however, from the maple and palm trees. 
By-products of the sugar made from cane are brown sugar and 
molasses. Corn sirup is made from corn and is lighter in color 
than molasses. It cannot be made to take the hard ball stage 
as molasses will, hence is not suitable for pulled candies or 
butterscotch, but for softer creams or stirred candies it is very 
acceptable. Corn sirup may be used for taffy by the addition 
of granulated sugar. Maple sirup is made from the sap of 
the maple tree and is essentially an American product. Maple 
sugar is made from the maple sirup and is sold as commonly 
as the sirup. Honey is made from the sugar of flowers by bees, 
and that obtained from clover is considered the finest. Honey 
made early in the summer is sweeter than that made later, 
when a bitter flavor (attributed to goldenrod) is apt to be im- 
parted. 

(See Sherman's Food Products, pages 397-444, for descrip- 
tion of sugar industries, sirups, and confectionery.) 

The sole nutritive function of the sugars is to serve as fuel, 
and the amount which can wisely be eaten is limited because of 
its tendency to irritate the stomach either directly or through 
fermentation. 

284 



SUGAR AND CANDY 285 

EXPERIMENTS 

Sugar 

Sirups of use in frozen desserts and candy making. 

Various degrees of densities of sirups are recognized with the ther- 
mometer or by testing in cold water for the soft ball, hard ball, crack, 
hard crack, and caramel stage. 

204. Boil 2 c. sugar in \ c. water. Note changes in boiling point 
as the solution becomes more condensed. When the thermometer 
registers various degrees, remove sirup from burner and test in cold 
water for the corresponding stage. 

"softball," . . . . F. . . C. 

" hard ball," . . . . F. . . C. 

" crack," F. . . C. 

"hard crack," . . . F. . . C. 

" barley," F. . . C. 

"caramel," . . . . F. . . C. 

a. Note the density of each stage, together with its cor- 
responding temperature. 

b. Prepare a candy at each stage. 

c. What kinds of candy is each suitable for? 

d. In what ways could sirups prepared at the various tem- 
peratures be used ? 

e. What sirup is best for : 

ice ? 

sherbet ? 
frappe ? 

205. Repeat Expt. 204, using the following : 

a. Powdered sugar 

b. Confectioners' sugar 

c. Brown sugar 

d. Molasses 

e. Maple sugar 

/. What are the results ? Conclusions? 



286 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

206. Boil 2 c. sugar in ^ c. water to which | tsp. cream of tartar 
has been added. Carry through the various stages. 

Turn out part of the sirup at each stage and see if you can beat or 
pull it. 

207. a. Repeat Expt. 206, using vinegar (i tbsp.) and lemon 
juice (2 tbsp.). Compare results with 204 and 205. 

b. Of what use are cream of tartar, vinegar, or lemon 
juice ? 

208. Prepare molasses candy, boiling it to the hard crack stage. 
Just before turning sirup out to cool, add tsp. soda. Note result 
in sirup and in candy when pulled. 



Fondant 

Ingredients : 

2 c. granulated sugar \ c. cold water 

Method : 

Mix the sugar and water together in a saucepan. Place saucepan 
over heat and stir the contents with a wooden spoon until the sugar 
is dissolved. Allow the sirup to boil gently without further stirring 
until the " soft ball " stage is reached. Turn sirup on to a greased 
platter and let it remain undisturbed until a thin film has formed 
over the surface. When this has formed, with a wooden spoon stir 
the sirup until it becomes white and creamy. If sufficiently stiff 
turn the fondant on to .a marble or kneading board and make per- 
fectly smooth. The fondant will work up better if allowed to re- 
main in the ice box overnight, but if necessary, it can be made up 
at once. 

Precautions : 

1. Scald the saucepan before using for boiling fondant, lest any 
odor of previous cooking appear in the fondant. 

2. Do not stir the sirup after the sugar is melted. (Why?) 

3. Do not allow the sirup to boil vigorously. If the sirup boils 
vigorously, crystals of sugar will be deposited in thick masses on the 
sides of the saucepan and are likely to mix with the sirup and appear 



SUGAR AND CANDY 287 

in the final product. A damp cheesecloth on a fork used to remove 
the crystals as fast as formed on the sides of the saucepan will help to 
prevent crystals from mixing with the sirup. 

4. When testing the sirup always remove the saucepan from the 
burner so that if the proper stage is reached it will not proceed to the 
" hard bah 1 " stage and so become too crystalline. 

5. Have the platter ready greased before the sirup is to be poured 
out. 

6. Do not scrape the last of the sirup from the pan, as it will 
appear as a hard sugary mass in the fondant. 

7. Use a minimum amount of butter with which to grease the 
platter. 

8. Wash the hands with cold water just before kneading the 
fondant. 

9. Cover the fondant with paraffin paper when putting it away to 
stand overnight. 

10. If fondant is quite soft when done, do not leave it in the ice 
box a cupboard is better - - but if quite stiff put it in the ice box 
to stand overnight and it will be easier to handle. 

Fondant may be used as follows : 

Creams Filling 

Drops Dates 

Walnuts Cherries 

Balls Chocolate peppermints 

Covering 

Small fruits Eclairs 

Nuts Cake 

Fruit sections Hot cross buns 

pineapple 

orange 

To make Cream Drops 

i. Divide the fondant into as many parts as you wish to make 
colors. 



288 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

2. Have ready the following : 

double boiler color 

spatula flavoring 

teaspoon sheet of paraffin paper 

toothpicks spread on a perfectly 

saucepan of boiling water flat surface 

3. Place the fondant in the double boiler and allow it to heat over 
hot water until soft. With the toothpick take up a tiny bit of color 
and stir it through the softened fondant. If sufficient color has not 
been added, repeat, but remember that a little color on the toothpick 
goes a long way in the fondant. 

4. Now add the flavoring, using precaution that too much is not 
added. 

5. If the fondant is still quite thick, add a few drops of boiling 
water and stir the whole mixture with the spatula l only enough to 
mix the color, flavor, and water, as too much will make it " grainy." 

6. Bring the double boiler to the side of the paraffin paper and, 
using the teaspoon, allow the fondant to drop from the tip of the 
spoon on to the paper. Hold the spoon in this one position so that 
the fondant will be directed into the center of the drop and the result 
will be a circular candy. 

NOTES : i. If the fondant piles up on the spoon, not enough hot water was 
added. 

2. If the drops are coarse-grained or rough, the fondant has been 

overcooked and over-stirred. This can sometimes be 
remedied by complete recooking as though using cane sugar. 

3. If white spots appear in the drops on standing, the fondant was 

stirred in the double boiler too much. These are not abso- 
lutely undesirable, but the creams will be hard or brittle. 
They are not perfect cream drops. 

4. The candies dropped on the paper if irregular or too thick may 

be remelted and redropped once, but more than that is 
likely to cause coarse-grained candies. 

5. Do not mix the candies to be done over with first mixture in the 

double boiler, but wait until that is used. 

1 The spatula is the most convenient utensil for this purpose. The fondant 
clings to any utensil used, but is more easily removed without waste from the 
spatula than from a spoon. 



SUGAR AND CANDY 289 

To make Walnut Creams : 

1. Divide the fondant into portions by measuring with the tea- 
spoon, i tsp. to each portion. 

2. Wash and dry the walnuts, using unbroken halves. 

3. Shape the fondant by rolling it lightly between the palms of 
the hands. 

4. Place a walnut meat on one side of the ball and arrange the 
second in a corresponding position on the other side. Press together 
slightly and the fondant will form a uniform mass between the nut 
meats. The fondant should protrude very slightly beyond the nuts. 

5. Pecans or almonds may be used in place of walnuts. 

To make Chocolate Peppermints : 

Prepare cream drops as in making Cream Drops, using peppermint 
flavoring but no color. To cover the creams, chocolate for the pur- 
pose is on the market, but unsweetened chocolate may be used. The 
latter will not have a glaze, but a little butter melted with the choco- 
late gives a slight glaze. 

Melt the chocolate over hot water, place the cream drops in the 
warm chocolate, and remove when well coated by using a fork. Place 
on a paraffin paper to dry. 

Care must be taken in removing from the chocolate and placing 
the creams on the paraffin, or the chocolate becomes unevenly dis- 
tributed on the creams. 

Fondant used as Covering : 

1 . When fondant is used as a covering for fruits, melt it in a double 
boiler and immerse the fruits in it. Remove to a paraffin paper to 
dry. 

2. When fondant is used as a covering for small cakes, have slightly 
more liquid than for fruits. Use cake one day old so that a fork 
can be held in it. 

Put the fork in the bottom of the cake and carefully lower it until 
the fondant comes well up on the sides of the cake. Lift the 
cake out and place, right side up, on a paraffin to dry. A little 
practice will probably be required before a perfect result will be 
obtained. 



2QO LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Decorate the cakes with tiny pieces of angelica, citron, candied 
fruit, nuts, rose leaves, violet leaves, or candy flowers. 

3. To cover large cakes or hot cross buns with fondant, melt it 
in a double boiler and arrange it on the cake as desired, using a spoon 
and spatula while it is still warm. This is the easiest process of any 
of the ways of using fondant and requires very little skill. 



Ingredients : 

2 c. sugar 
\ c. milk 
T *5 tsp. salt 



CANDY 
Chocolate Fudge 



2 oz. chocolate 
i tbsp. butter 
i tsp. vanilla 



Method : 

Melt chocolate and butter, add sugar and milk and stir until sugar 
dissolves. Cook without stirring until it forms a soft ball when 
dropped in cold water. Let stand in cold water until cool. Add 
vanilla and beat until it can be handled. Mold, and place in buttered 
pan. 



Penoche 

Ingredients : 

i c. brown sugar 

i c. granulated sugar 

\ c. milk or cream 

& tsp. salt 
Method : 

Proceed as for chocolate fudge. 



i tbsp. butter 
i c. nut meats 
i tsp. vanilla 



Ingredients : 

1 Ib. maple sugar 

2 tbsp. butter 



Maple Fudge 



tsp. salt 



i c. milk 
T V tsp. soda 



SUGAR AND CANDY 



291 



Method : 

Melt butter and sugar, add soda and bring to boiling point. Add 
milk slowly, stirring constantly ; add salt. Proceed as for chocolate 
fudge. 



Ingredients: 



3 c. sugar 
i c. cream 



Karo Cream Fudge 



tbsp. lemon juice 



\ c. Karo 
\ lb. figs 



Ingredients: 



3 c. sugar 
i c. cream 



Walnut Cream Fudge 



i tsp. vanilla 



\ c. Karo 
i c. walnuts 



Ingredients: 



Victoria Fudge 



z c. butter 



2 c. sugar 

f c. milk i c. coconut 

\ c. each cherries, figs, and pineapples 

Prepare as fudge fruit flavoring added when cold. 



Ingredients : 

2 c. brown sugar 



Claire Creams 



i c. cream 



i c. nuts 

i c. candied cherries 



i lb. marshmallows 



Method : 



Boil cream and sugar as fudge. Beat until creamy and add | c. 
nut meats and pour in pan. Melt marshmallows, stirring constantly, 
and add nuts and cherries. Pour over top of fudge. 



292 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Fluff 

Ingredients : 

2 c. sugar white i egg 
| c. water Y 1 ^ tsp. salt 

\ c. nut meats or candied cherries 
Method : 

Cook sugar and water to thread stage and pour slowly on beaten 
white of egg. Add nuts and beat until stiff enough to hold shape 
when dropped from tip of a teaspoon on paraffin paper or buttered 
plates. 

Turkish Nougat 

Ingredients : 

3 c. sugar 2 tbsp. corn sirup 
i c. Karo or other corn sirup whites 3 eggs 

i c. water i c. nut meats 

Method : 

Boil sugar, water, and i c. corn sirup to hard crack. Have eggs 
beaten stiff and fold into them 2 tbsp. sirup. Beat eggs into boiled 
mixture and pour on to oiled paper. 

Honey Puffs 

Ingredients : 

3 c. sugar i c. nuts i c. cream 

\ c. honey i c. candied pineapple white i egg 

Method : 

Boil sugar and cream until it will almost spin a thread. Add \ c. 
honey and cook to " soft ball " stage. Take from fire and add i 
beaten white of egg. Beat i minute and add i c. each chopped nuts 
and candied pineapple. Beat until creamy, and form into balls. 
Place on paraffin paper. 

Molasses Candy 

Ingredients : 

3 c. brown sugar i tbsp. butter 

\ c. molasses \ tsp. soda 

i c. water 2 tbsp. vanilla 



SUGAR AND CANDY 293 

Method : 

Cook all but soda and vanilla until mixture cracks when dropped 
into cold water. Beat in soda and vanilla and pour on a buttered 
plate. Draw edges in toward center until cold enough to handle; 
pull until light and smooth. Cut into inch pieces with sharp scissors. 

Peanut Brittle 

Ingredients : 

i c. sugar -1 c. peanuts 

(i qt. unshelled) 
Method : 

Melt sugar in iron pan until a light brown sirup, remove imme- 
diately, add nuts, chopped if desired, spread on an inverted tin plate 
and mark into squares when cool. 

Butterscotch 

Ingredients : 

1 c. sugar i c. Karo sirup 

1-4 tbsp. butter 

Method : 

Boil without stirring until brittle when dropped in cold water. 
Pour into shallow buttered pan and when cool mark into squares. 

Glace for Nuts and Fruits 

Ingredients : 

2 c. sugar i c. water 

| c. vinegar 

Method : 

Boil sugar and water to the thread stage. Add vinegar and 
boil until color changes. Keep over boiling water while dipping. 
Skin of orange sections should not be broken. Cherries and grapes 
on stems should be hung on wires. 

Candied Orange Peel 

Wipe 4 oranges and remove peel in quarters. Put peel in sauce- 
pan, cover with cold water, bring to boiling point and then simmer 
until soft. Drain and scrape off ^ of the white portion. Cut in 



294 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

thin strips. Boil i c. sugar and ^ c. water until it spins a thread. 
Cook strips in the sirup 5 minutes. Drain. Roll in granulated sugar. 

Salted Almonds I 

Blanch Jordan almonds by allowing them to stand in boiling water 
until it loosens the skins. Drain, place in a shallow pan, sprinkle 
with salt and small pieces of butter. Brown in a pan in broiling 
oven, stirring frequently. Drain on paper. 

Salted Almonds II 

Ingredients : 

i pt. water i c. almonds 

\ c. salt 2 tbsp. butter or olive oil 

Method : 

Blanch almonds as described above. Boil salt and water, add 
almonds and cook 8 minutes. Drain and place them in a baking 
pan, dot over with butter and bake until a delicate brown, stirring 
frequently. Drain on brown paper. 

REFERENCES 

Sugar 

ABEL. Sugar and Its Value as Food. United States Agriculture 
Department, Farmers' Bulletin No. 535 (1913). 

BLAKEY. The United States Sugar Beet Industry. 

BROWNE. Handbook of Sugar Analysis. 

DEERR. Cane Sugar Manufacture. 

DEERR. Sugar and the Sugar Cane. 

ELLIS. An Introduction to the History of Sugar as a Commodity. 

GEERLING. The World's Cane Sugar Industry, Past and Present. 

SHERMAN. Food Products. 

SNELL. Maple Sap Products and the Canadian Standards. Re- 
printed from the Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry 
(1914). 

THORPE. Outlines of Industrial Chemistry. 

WILEY. Foods and their Adulteration. 



CHAPTER XXI 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



Ingredients : 

5 c. coffee 
2 eggs 



BEVERAGES 



Boiled Coffee 



i c. cold water 



2 c. cold water 

8 qts. boiling water 



Ingredients : 



if c. cocoa 
2 c. sugar 



Reception Cocoa 



i pt. water 



8 qts. milk 

i qt. boiling water 



Ingredients : 

f c. tea 



Tea 



10 qts. boiling water 



Ingredients : 



4 c. sugar 
i qt. water 



Lemonade 



8 qts. water 
3 doz. lemons 



1 As a rule only the Ingredients will be given in this chapter since the same Methods 
may be followed as in the preceding chapters. 

295 



296 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Fruit Punch 

Ingredients : 

2 Ibs. sugar i qt. water 

8 lemons i pt. grapejuice or tea 

6 oranges i pt. canned pineapple 

6 qts. water juice, or other fruit 

i pt. shredded pineapple juice 

i pt. strawberries or cherries 

FRUITS 

Apple Sauce 

Ingredients : 

50 large apples 3-4 qts. water 

9 c. sugar juice 2 lemons (or 2 

grated nutmegs) 

Stewed Apricots 

Ingredients : 

4 Ibs. dried apricots 4 qts. cold water 

4 c. sugar 

Stewed Prunes 

Ingredients : 

4 Ibs. prunes 4 c. sugar 

4 qts. cold water juice i orange 

juice i lemon 

Baked Rhubarb 

Ingredients : 

1 6 Ibs. rhubarb 4 qts. sugar 

Cranberry Jelly 

Ingredients : 

4 qts. cranberries 8 c. sugar 

i qt. water 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 

Cranberry Sauce 

Ingredients : 

4! qts. berries i| qts. water 

6 c. sugar 



297 



Combination of Fruits 

Ingredients : 

1 doz. oranges 

3 Ibs. grapes 6 grapefruit 

2 baskets strawberries 6 bananas 



i can Hawaiian pineapple 



Sirup : 



2 c. sugar 
4 c. water 
juice i lemon 



CEREALS 



Cream of Wheat 



Ingredients : 



f Ib. cream of wheat 



5 tbsp. salt 



Ingredients : 

i Ib. oatmeal 



Ingredients : 

5 c. rice 



4! qts. water 



Oatmeal 



5 tbsp. salt 



4 qts. boiling water 



Boiled Rice 



7 qts. water 



I c. salt 



Ingredients : 

5 c. rice 



Steamed Rice 



if qts. water 



\ c. salt 



298 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Asparagus 

Cabbage 

Carrots 

Cauliflower 

Celery 

Onions 

Potatoes 

Turnips 



VEGETABLES 

Creamed 

8 bunches 4 qts. white sauce II 

10 Ibs. 3 qts. white sauce II 

12 Ibs. 3 qts. white sauce II 

6-8 3 qts. white sauce II 

8 qts. cubed 3 qts. white sauce II 

i pk. 3 qts. white sauce II 

8 qts. cubed 4 qts. white sauce II 

12 Ibs. 3 qts. white sauce II 



Ingredients : 

i pk. potatoes 
i qt. milk 



Mashed Potatoes 



i c. butter 
5 tbsp. salt 



Ingredients : 

50 potatoes 
1 c. hot milk 



Stuffed Baked Potatoes 



i c. butter 



i^ tbsp. salt 
2 tsp. pepper 



Ingredients : 

5 Ibs. potatoes 
4 eggs 
^ c. butter 
juice i onion 



Potato Croquettes 



I tsp. cayenne 
i \ tbsp. salt 
\ c. chopped parsley 
I c. milk 



Ingredients : 

6 qts. sliced potatoes 
2 qts. hot milk 
^ c. flour 



Scalloped Potatoes 



i^ c. butter 
3 tbsp. salt 
juice i lemon 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



299 



Sweet Potato Croquettes 

Ingredients : 

5 Ibs. sweet potatoes | c. parsley 

5 eggs 1 1 tsp. salt 

\ c. butter tsp. cayenne 



Ingredients : 

\\ pks. sweet potatoes 

\ c. butter 

salt 



Glazed Sweet Potatoes 



Ingredients : 

6 No. 2 cans corn 
3 qts. milk 
2 tbsp. salt 
5 tbsp. sugar 



Corn Pudding 



\ tsp. pepper 



3 c. sugar 
i^ c. water 
\ tsp. pepper 



1 2 eggs beaten sepa- 
rately 

3 qts. bread crumbs 
f c. butter 



Ingredients : 



Stuffed Peppers 



25 large peppers 
3 qts. chopped meat 
salt 



Ingredients : 

8 qts. tomatoes 
i c. butter 
\ c. sugar 

? 

Ingredients : 

50 tomatoes 
3 \ tbsp. salt 
i tsp. pepper 
i c. butter 



Stewed Tomatoes 



Baked Tomatoes 



2 qts. bread crumbs 
juice i large onion 
pepper 



4 tbsp. salt 
| tsp. cayenne 
4 c. bread crumbs 



\ c. sugar 
\ c. parsley 
juice 2 onions 
2 qts. bread crumbs 



300 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

SOUPS 

Cream Soup Celery 

Ingredients : 

8 qts. celery, cubed 7 qts. scalded milk 

6 qts. boiling water 2 c. butter 

2 onions 2\ c. flour 
pepper, cayenne 5 tbsp. salt 

Cream Soup Corn 

Ingredients : 

8 cans corn 7 qts. scalded milk 

3 qts. boiling water 2 c. butter 
2 onions i| c. flour 
pepper, cayenne 5 tbsp. salt 

Cream Soup - - Tomato 

Ingredients : 

6 qts. canned tomatoes 6 qts. scalded milk 

6 bay leaves i^ c. butter 

1 tsp. peppercorns i| c. flour 

2 onions i tbsp. baking soda 

\ c. sugar salt 

pepper 

Cream Soup - - Potato 

Ingredients : 

8 Ibs. potatoes 2 c. butter 

4 onions i^ c. flour 
2 qts. boiling water 6 tbsp. salt 

i c. chopped parsley i tbsp. celery salt 

10 qts. scalded milk tsp. cayenne 

Brown Stock Soup 

Ingredients : 

10 Ibs. beef and bone 8 qts. water 

i tsp. peppercorns 12 cloves 

4 bay leaves parsley 

i c. each carrots, onion, celery, turnip 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



301 



Ingredients : 

4 qts. stock 

2 tbsp. allspice berries 

4 bay leaves 

i large onion 



Mongole Soup 



4 qts. tomatoes 

24 cloves 

parsley 

i tsp. celery seed 



Ingredients : 

6 qts. stock 
i c. peppers 
salt 



Creole 



cayenne 



4 qts. tomatoes 
\ c. onion 
pepper 



Sauce with Mongole Soup 

Ingredients : 

f c. butter f c. flour 

i tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 



2 tbsp. vinegar 



Ingredients : 

i^ c. butter 
c. horseradish 



Sauce with Creole Soup 



i c. macaroni rings 



if c. flour 

2 tbsp. vinegar 



Ingredients : 

2 shins beef 

10 qts. cold water 

6 qts. boiling water 

2 c. carrots 

2 c. cabbage 

2 celery roots 

4 bay leaves 



Vegetable Soup 



2 c. potatoes cooked 

separately 
2 qts. tomatoes 
| tsp. pepper 
juice 2 onions 
4 tbsp. chopped parsley 
4 tbsp. salt 



302 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 

6 qts. beef stock 
| Ib. noodles 
c. rice or barley 



Noodle Soup 



6 qts. boiling water 
Macaroni Soup 



Rice Soup 



Ingredients : 

6 qts. beef stock 
4 tbsp. salt 

Ingredients : 

i knuckle of veal 
6 qts. cold water 
i bunch of herbs 

3 tbsp. parsley 

4 qts. milk 



MEATS 

Mutton Stew 

Ingredients : 

10 Ibs. shoulder of mutton 
6 qts. boiling water 

2 onions 

3 c. turnips 
3 c. carrots 

2 qts. boiling water 

| c. butter 



Ingredients : 

13 Ibs. chuck 

8 qts. boiling water 

6 c. turnips 

6 c. carrots 

2 qts. boiling water 



Beef Stew 



| tsp. cayenne 
4 tbsp. parsley 
4 tbsp. salt 



f Ib. macaroni 

6 qts. boiling water 



i Ib. rice 

2\ qts. boiling water 

4 tbsp. salt 

juice 2 onions 

| tsp. pepper 



4 c. flour 
4 tsp. salt 
i tsp. pepper 
\ c. chopped parsley 
3 Ibs. potatoes - 
cooked separately 



2 tbsp. salt 

\ c. beef drippings 



2 onions 



^ Ibs. potatoes 
cooked separately 



i tsp. pepper 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



303 



Scotch Stew 

Ingredients : 

8 Ibs. mutton from neck 
8 qts. boiling water 
i Ib. barley 
i c. carrots 
i c. turnips 

1 c. celery 

Scalloped Meat 

Ingredients: 

i\ Ibs. cooked meat ground 
juice 2 onions 
\ c. parsley 

2 c. bread crumbs 

2 tsp. salt 

\ tsp. pepper 



i c. onion 

1 c. flour 

\ c. drippings 

2 tbsp. salt 

i tsp. pepper 
4 tbsp. parsley 



6 Ibs. raw potatoes 

cooked and mashed 
\ c. butter 
f qt. milk 
i tbsp. salt 



Ingredients : 

\ c. drippings 

1 c. flour 

Ingredients : 

12 Ibs. veal 

2 Ibs. salt pork 

3 tbsp. salt 

i tsp. pepper 



Gravy 



Veal Loaf 



\\ qts. stock 
i tsp. salt 



6 eggs 

\ c. melted butter 
3 c. crumbs 
milk to moisten 



Ingredients : 

3 qts. pea beans 
2 Ibs. salt pork 

4 tbsp. salt 

i tbsp. mustard 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES 



Baked Beans 



i c. molasses 

1 tsp. pepper 

2 onions 

4 tbsp. brown sugar 



304 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 

4 qts. medium white sauce 



Cream Toast 



toast 



Ingredients : 

2 doz. eggs 
i tbsp. salt 



German Toast 



toast 



c. sugar 
1 qts. milk 



Ingredients : 

50 hard-cooked eggs 
i^ c. minced ham 
i c. butter 



Stuffed Eggs 



\ tsp. salt 



3 tbsp. oil 
| tsp. cayenne 
1 1 tsp. mustard 



Ingredients : 

2 Ibs. macaroni 
I c. salt 
cayenne 



Macaroni and Cheese 



2 qts. medium white 

sauce 
i Ib. grated cheese 



Ingredients : 

6 c. rice 



Rice with Tomato Sauce 

boiling, salted water 



Tomato Sauce for Rice or Macaroni 

Ingredients : 

i No. 10 can tomatoes 2 c. flour 

^ c. sugar 2 qts. soup stock or 

1 tbsp. salt water 

3 bay leaves i tsp. peppercorns 

2 c. fat | tsp. cloves 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



305 



Ingredients : 

i qt. rice 
j c. salt 
7 qts. water 



Creamed Rice 



i qt. milk 
3 tbsp. sugar 
\ doz. eggs 



Ingredients : 

i qt. rice 
3 tbsp. salt 
i c. milk 



Rice Croquettes 



parsley 



^ c. butter 
6 eggs 
cayenne 



Ingredients : 

3 Ibs. codfish 



FISH 
Creamed Codfish 

4 qts. medium white sauce 
4 qts. cold water 



Ingredients : 

4 qts. cold flaked fish 
i qt. buttered crumbs 



Scalloped Fish 



3 qts. medium white sauce 
i onion and 6 bay leaves 
scalded in the milk 



Ingredients : 

5 cans salmon 
f c. butter 
i c. flour 
5 c. milk 



6 eggs 



Salmon Cutlets 



5 tsp. salt 
| tsp. cayenne 
5 tbsp. parsley 
juice 2 lemons 



For dipping 



sifted crumbs 



6 tbsp. water 



306 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 

10 shad 



Baked Shad with Tomato Sauce 



f Ib. salt pork 
Ib. butter 



Ingredients : 

4 qts. tomatoes 
4 bay leaves 
i onion 

Ingredients : 

-L\ Ibs. codfish 
6 Ibs. potatoes 
\ c. butter 

Ingredients: 

6 qts. oysters 

if c. oyster liquor 

f c. milk 



Sauce 



2 tsp. salt 
if tsp. pepper 
i c. flour 



4 tsp. salt 
\ c. butter 
i c. flour 



Codfish Balls 



4 eggs 

| tsp. cayenne 

salt if needed 



Scalloped Oysters 



2 qts. buttered crumbs 

salt 

pepper 



FLOUR MIXTURES 



Ingredients : 

2\ qts. water 

10 tbsp. lard or butter 

3^ tbsp. sugar 



Bread 



3 tbsp. salt 

2\ yeast cakes 

2 c. lukewarm water 



about 8 qts. flour 



Ingredients : 

6 c. scalded milk 
6 c. water 
4 tbsp. salt 
f c. butter 
1 c. molasses 



Graham Bread 



3 yeast cakes 
3 c. warm water 
6 c. flour 

graham or entire wheat 
flour to knead 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



307 



Nut Bread 

3 qts. chopped nuts added after first rising 



Ingredients : 

i^ qts. milk 
c. butter 
^ c. lard 
7 qts. flour 



Rolls 



2 tbsp. salt 
^ c. sugar 

i yeast cakes 

3 c. lukewarm water 



Ingredients : 

i qt. rye meal 
i qt. corn meal 
i qt. graham flour 



Steamed Brown Bread 



i| tbsp. soda 
if tbsp. salt 

i c. and 3 tbsp. molasses 
1 qts. sour milk 



Biscuits 



Ingredients : 

3 qts. flour 

2 tbsp. salt 

\ c. baking powder 

Fruit Rolls 

Ingredients : 

3 qts. flour 

8 tbsp. baking powder 

2 tbsp. salt 

4-5 c. milk 

Roll out and spread with 
| c. butter 

3 c. raisins 



i qt. milk or more 
6 tbsp. butter 
6 tbsp. lard 



c. sugar 
f c. butter or, 
f c. lard 



3 c. brown sugar 
2 tbsp. cinnamon 



Ingredients : 

2\ qts. flour 

6f tbsp. baking powder 

if tbsp. salt 



Wheat Muffins 



5 eggs 

f c. sugar 

10 tbsp. melted butter 



1 qts. milk 



308 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Entire Wheat or Graham Muffins 

Ingredients : 

2 pts. white flour 5 eggs 

3 pts. graham flour i^ qts. milk 

6 tbsp. baking powder 10 tbsp. melted butter 

if tbsp. salt | c. sugar 

Corn Muffins 

Ingredients : 

1 1 qts. wheat flour if tbsp. salt 

1 1 qts. corn meal 6 eggs 

8 tbsp. baking powder i| qts. milk 

f c. sugar f c. melted butter 

CAKES 

Ginger Cake 

Ingredients : 

1 qt. molasses 4 tsp. soda 

2 c. hot water 4 tsp. ginger 

1 c. melted butter 2 tsp. cinnamon 
2\ qts. flour 2 tsp. salt 

Plain Cake 

Ingredients : 

2 Ibs. butter 7 qts. flour 

4 Ibs. sugar 14 tbsp. baking powder 

3 doz. eggs 2|-| qts. milk 
i tbsp. salt 3 tbsp. vanilla 

White Cake 

Ingredients : 

i\ c. butter 4! tbsp. baking powder 

6f c. sugar f tsp. cream of tartar 

3 c. milk i| tsp. salt 

c. flour 2 tsp. almond extract 

whites of 28 eggs 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 



309 



Ingredients : 

4 c. butter 
8 c. sugar 
1 6 eggs 



Spanish Cake 



i qt. milk 



14 c. flour 

8 tbsp. baking powder 

8 tsp. cinnamon 



Ingredients : 



20 eggs 
4 c. sugar 
4 c. flour 



Sponge Cake I 



4 tsp. baking powder 

i tsp. salt 

i tbsp. vanilla 



Ingredients : 



24 eggs 
4 c. sugar 
rind 2 lemons 



Sponge Cake II 



4 c. flour 

^ c. lemon juice 

i tsp. salt 



Ingredients : 

i c. butter 
3 c. sugar 
6 eggs 



Washington Cakes 



tbsp. salt 



5! c. flour 

2 tbsp. baking powder 

if c. milk 



Bake as cup cakes. Split, fill, and cover with whipped cream. 
The cream may be colored with currant jelly. 



Ingredients : 



if c. sugar 
^ c. flour 
i tsp. salt 



Filling for Above 



3 c. milk 

4 eggs 

f tbsp. vanilla 



310 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Ingredients : 

1 c. butter 

2 c. brown sugar 
2 eggs 

i c. molasses 
i tsp. vanilla 
if c. milk 



Spice Cookies 



2 qts. flour 

4 tsp. baking powder 
\ nutmeg, grated 

3 tbsp. cinnamon 
2 tsp. cloves 

i tsp. salt 



Doughnuts 



Ingredients : 

% c. and 2 tbsp. butter 
1 1 c. sugar 
6 eggs 
i^ c. milk 
flour to roll 



2| tbsp. baking powder 
\ tsp. cinnamon 
\ tsp. nutmeg 
i tbsp. salt 
i tbsp. vanilla 



SALADS 



Ingredients : 

6 heads lettuce 

2 doz. oranges 

2 cans Hawaiian pineapple 

i Ib. malaga grapes 

\ Ib. candied cherries 



Fruit 



1 c. English walnut 
meats 

2 c. cubed celery 
6 bananas 

i qt. mayonnaise 



Ingredients : 

4-6 yolks to i qt. oil 



Mayonnaise Dressing 



Waldorf 



Ingredients : 

4 qts. apples 
2 qts. celery 



2 c. walnut meats 
i qt. mayonnaise 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 311 

Chicken 

Ingredients : 

5 qts. chicken (5 chickens) i c. French dressing 

5 qts. celery i qt. mayonnaise 



Tomato Jelly 

Ingredients : 

f c. gelatin i qt. cold water 

i gal. tomatoes i c. celery 

i onion 2 c. carrots 

2\ tbsp. salt i bay leaf 

2\ tbsp. powdered sugar 12 peppercorns 

12 allspice berries 



Cheese Straws for Salads 

Ingredients : 

2 qts. grated cheese 2 tsp. salt 

2 qts. crumbs i tsp. pepper 

5^ c. flour \ tsp. cayenne 

\ c. butter i c. milk 



DESSERTS 

Snow Pudding 

Ingredients : 

\\ boxes granulated gelatin 6| c. sugar 

2 c. cold water 2 c. lemon juice 

2 qts. boiling water 10 whites of eggs 

Coffee Cream 

Ingredients : 

2 boxes granulated gelatin 2^ c. cold water 

4 c. sugar 2 qts. strong coffee 

3^ qts. thin cream 



312 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 

Soft Custard 

Ingredients : 

10 yolks of eggs i| c. sugar 

i tsp. salt 2\ qts. milk 

2 tsp. vanilla 



Cup Custard 

Ingredients : 

4 qts. milk 2 tsp. salt 

1 6 eggs 4 tsp. vanilla 

3 c. sugar 



Chocolate Custard 

Ingredients : 

Above plus 8 oz. chocolate 

Soft Chocolate Custard 

Ingredients : 

4 qts. milk 2 c. sugar 

4 oz. chocolate 2 tsp. salt 

1 6 egg yolks 4 tsp. vanilla 

Meringue 
1 6 egg whites 2 c. powdered sugar 

Rice Pudding 

Ingredients : 

8 qts. milk 3 c. sugar 

2 qts. water 2 pkgs. raisins 

3 c. rice 2 tsp. salt 

Scalloped Apples 

Ingredients : 

16 qts. sliced apples 5 tsp. cinnamon 

5 qts. bread crumbs 5 c. sugar 

2 c. butter juice and rind 4 lemons 

i c. water 



RECIPES FOR FIFTY SERVINGS 313 

Apple Snow 

Ingredients : 

30 large apples 5 c. powdered sugar 

30 egg whites juice 5 lemons 



Apple Tapioca 

Ingredients : 

3 c. tapioca 3 qts. boiling water 

f pk. apples 2 c. sugar 



Chocolate Bread Pudding 

Ingredients : 

5 qts. milk 12 eggs 

2\ qts. bread i tbsp. salt 

10 oz. chocolate 2 tbsp. vanilla 

3 c. sugar 



Hard Sauce 

Ingredients : 

2 c. butter 2 c. powdered sugar 

2 c. brown sugar i tbsp. vanilla 

Junket 

Ingredients : 

6 qts. milk 6 tablets dissolved in 4 tbsp. 

1 1 c. sugar cold water 

2 tbsp. vanilla 



Chocolate Junket 

Ingredients : 

6 qts. milk i c. hot water 

2 c. sugar 6 tablets dissolved in 4 tbsp. 

4 oz. chocolate cold water 

i \ tbsp. vanilla 



314 LABORATORY MANUAL OF FOODS AND COOKERY 



Steamed Pudding 



Ingredients : 

i c. butter 

2 1 c. sugar 

5 eggs 

i^ qts. milk 

juice and rind 2 lemons 



^ c. flour 

4! qts. bread crumbs 

4 tbsp. baking powder 

i^r tsp. salt 

i qt. raisins 



1 nutmegs (grated) 



Ingredients : 

2\ qts. milk 

14 eggs 

2! qts. cream 

Ingredients : 

2 qts. milk 
12 yolks 



Ingredients : 

3 Ibs. sugar 



FROZEN DESSERTS 



Chocolate Ice Cream 



5 c. sugar 

12 oz. chocolate 

4! tbsp. vanilla 



Custard Ice Cream 



4 c. sugar 
4 tbsp. vanilla 
2 qts. cream 

Strawberry Ice Cream 

3 qts. berries 
4! qts. cream 



Ingredients : 

5 qts. milk 
7 c. sugar 

Ingredients : 

5 qts. water 
rind of 6 oranges 
i qt. orange juice 



Milk Sherbet 



2 c. lemon juice 
rind of 3 lemons 



Orange Ice 



4 Ibs. sugar 
rind of 6 lemons 
2 c. lemon juice 



INDEX 



Absorption of odors, 

experiments, 88-89. 
Alkaloids, 2. 
Almonds, salted, 294. 
Apples, 16-17, 52, 53, 67, 74, 100. 

baked, 16. 

in bloom, 16. 

in sirup with oatmeal, 52. 

in sirup with rice, 52. 

potato, 67. 

scalloped, 74, 312. 

scalloped with cheese, 100. 

snow, 313. 

steamed, 16. 

stewed, 17. 

tapioca, 53, 313. 
Apple sauce, 16, 20, 296. 
Apricots, 19, 296. 

conserve, 41. 
Arrowroot gruel, 56. 

Ash constituents. See Food Values and 
the general discussions of the dif- 
ferent foods. 
Asparagus, 58, 74. 

Bacon, 140. 
Bacteria, 26. 
Baking powder, 180. 
Bananas, baked, 17. 
Barley gruel, 56. 
Barley water, 10. 
Batters, 189-217. 
Bavarian creams, 150. 

coffee, 150. 

grape, 150. 

orange, 150. 
Beans, 71, 101. 

baked, 71, 77, 303. 

dried lima, 71. 



Bean loaf, 101. 
Beef. See also Meat. 

broth, 141. 

casserole, 143. 

cuts of, 127-128. 

fillet, broiled, 137. 

fillet of, 135, 136. 

Hamburg steak, 138. 

juice, 141. 

pot roast, 140. 

stew, 141. 
Beets, buttered, 64. 
Beverages, i-io, 295-296. 

classification, i. 

definition, i. 

experiments, 3-6. 

fruits suitable for, 24. 

methods of serving, 2. 

recipes, 6-10. 

references, 10. 
Biscuits, 196-197, 307. 

bran, 197. 

cheese, 197. 

corn meal, 197. 

emergency, 197. 

fruit, 197. 

general rules, 196. 

graham or entire wheat, 196. 

wheat, 196. 

Biuret reaction for protein, 85. 
Bouillon, 132. 
Bread, 189-193, 306-307. 

Boston brown, 190, 307. 

brown, 190. 

gluten, 190. 

graham, 190, 191, 243, 306. 

Indian, 243. 

nut, 190, 191, 192, 307. 

sticks, 193. 



315 



316 



INDEX 



Bread, toast, cream, 304. 

toast, German, 304. 

wheat, 189, 306. 
Butter. See also Milk. 

experiments, 84. 
Buttermilk. See also Milk. 

experiments, 84-85. 

uses for, 243-247. 
Butters, 23. 

Cabbage, 65-66. 

buttered, 65. 

creamed, 66. 

with ham, 66. 
Caffeine, 2. 
Caffetannic acid, 3. 
Cake, 218-227, 308-309. 

apple, dried, 245. 

apple sauce, 222. 

chocolate, 220. 

coffee, 222. 

date loaf, 221. 

fruit, 222, 245. 

general rules, 218. 

gingerbread with cheese, 103, 104. 

ginger cake, 223, 308. 

ginger cup, 224. 

Genoese, 227. 

ginger, hot water, 223. 

gold, 221. 

jelly roll, 226. 

Lady Baltimore, 220. 

mocha, 226. 

modifications, 219. 

orange loaf, 221. 

plain, 308. 

pound, 220. 

raspberry, canned, 223. 

Roxbury, 224. 

Spanish, 219, 309. 

spice, 246. 

sponge, 225, 309. 

sponge, drops, 225. 

sponge, for ornamenting, 226. 

sponge, hot water, 225. 

sponge, white, 226. 

sponge, with baking powder, 225. 

sponge, yellow, 224. 

standard, 219. 

Washington, and filling, 309. 

white, 219, 308. 



Cake, with butter, 218-224. 

without butter, 224-227. 
Candy, 286-294. 

butterscotch, 293. 

candied orange peel, 293. 

claire creams, 291. 

fluff, 292. 

fondant, 286-290. 

fudge, 290-291. 

general discussion, 284. 

glace for fruits and nuts, 293. 

honey puffs, 292. 

molasses, 292. 

peanut brittle, 293. 

Turkish nougat, 292. 
Canning (and preserving), 22-46. 

definitions, 33. 

experiments, 26-33. 

fruits, for, 22. 

general directions, 34. 

references, 45-46. 

score cards, 45. 

vegetables for, 22. 
Caramel, 90. 
Carrots, 59, 60, 65. 
Cereals, 47-5?, 297. 

consistency of, 48. 

cooking of, 48, 51. 

cream of wheat, 297. 

experiments, 49-51. 

general discussion, 47-48. 

general rules, 51. 

oatmeal, 297. 

purchasing, 48. 

reasons for cooking, 48. 

references, 56-57. 

rice, boiled, 297. 

rice, steamed, 297. 

serving, 48. 

tabular summary for cooking, 51. 

variations in serving, 48. 

with fruits, combinations of, 52. 
Charlottes, 151. 

caramel, 151. 

chocolate, 151. 

coffee, 151. . 

orange, 151. 

Russe, 151. 

strawberry, 151. 
Cheese, 95-105, 115, 120, 208. 

food values, 104-105. 



INDEX 



317 



Cheese, general discussion, 95-96. 
recipes, 96-104. 

apples scalloped with, 100. 

balls, 103. 

bean loaf, 101. 

cake, 99. 

corn, tomato and, 102. 

croquettes, 120. 

custard, 100. 

eggs with, 96. 

fondue, 97. 

gingerbread, 103, 104. 

Italian rice, 102. 

lima bean loaf, 101. 

loaf, 101. 

macaroni baked with, 208. 

nut loaf, 10 1. 

omelet, 98. 

red bunny, 99. 

rice, Italian, 102. 

souffle, 115. 

souffle with pastry, too. 

soup, vegetable and, 101. 

soup, 100. 

spinach loaf, 102. 

straws, 103, 311. 

tomato and corn, 102. 

Turkish pilaf, 102. 

Welsh rarebit, 98, 99. 
Cherry and pineapple preserve, 42. 
Cherry conserve, 42. 
Chicken, 133, 154-157. 
a la King, 157. 
casserole, 156. 
creamed, 156. 
Creole, 157. 
fricassee, 155. 
fried, 155. 
gravy, 155. 
Maryland, 156. 
pie, 156. 
roast, 154. 
sauce, 156. 
soup, 133. 

stuffing for roast, 155. 
Chili sauce, 43. 
Chocolate, 8. 
Citric acid, 2. 
Clams, 166-167. 
broth, 167. 
chowder, 167. 



Clams, steamed, 166. 
Cocoa, 7, 295. 
Codfish, creamed, 162. 
Coffee, 7, 295. 
Comforts, 201. 
Conserves, 23, 41-42. 

apricot, 41. 

cherry, 42. 

grape, 42. 

plum, 42. 

rhubarb, 41. 
Consomme, 132. 
Cookies, 209-215. 

Boston, 211. 

Brownies, chocolate, 215. 

chocolate, 214. 

chocolate chips, 215. 

chocolate wafers, 210. 

classification, 209-210. 

fairy gingerbread, 215. 

general rules, 210. 

ginger snaps, 213. 

hermits, 214. 

Margarets, 211. 

meringues, 212. 

meringues, date, 212. 

molasses, 213, 246, 247. 

molasses drop, 212. 

nut, 215. 

oatmeal, 211. 

orange circles, 213. 

peanut, 212. 

sponge drops, 213. 

sugar, 214, 246. 

thin, 214. 

vanilla, 214. 
Corn meal gruel, 56. 
Corn pudding, 65. 
Cornstarch pudding, 53. 
Cottage cheese, 87. 
Crabapples, baked, 17. 
Crabs, 170-171. 

devilled, 170. 

soft-shelled, 171. 
ranberry, 

jelly, 1 8, 296. 

sauce, 1 8, 297. 

spiced, 1 8. 
ream, 

experiments, 83-84. 

uses for sour, 244, 246, 247. 



INDEX 



Creamed vegetables, 73, 298. 
Cream filling for eclairs, 207. 
Cream of wheat, 297. 
Cream puffs, 206, 207. 
Cream soups, 74-75, 300. 

asparagus, 74. 

celery, 75, 300. 

chicken, 75. 

string bean, 75. 

tomato, 75, 300. 
Croquettes, 118-121. 

beef and rice, 121. 

cheese, 120. 

chicken, 120. 

crumbs for, 118. 

eggs for, 1 1 8. 

fats for frying, 119. 

nut and raisin, 120. 

potato, 119. 

recipes, 119-121. 

rice, 119. 

score card, 121. 

veal or lamb, 121. 
Crumbs for scalloped dishes, 73. 
Cucumber pickles, 44. 
Custard, 89-91, 100, 312. 

baked, 90, 312. 

caramel, 90. 

cheese, 100. 

chocolate, 91, 312. 

floating island, 91. 

general rules, 89. 

rice or tapioca, 91. 

soft, 89, 312. 

steamed, 90. 

tapioca or rice, 91. 

Dates, oatmeal with, 52. 

Desserts, 53-55, 311-314. See also under 

the name of each. 
Doughnuts, 201, 247, 310. 
Doughs, 189-217. 
Drying, fruits for, 24. 

Eclairs, 207. 

Eggs, 96, 107-113, 237. 

experiments, 107-109. 

food value, 113. 

general discussion, 107. 

preserving, 107, 112. 

recipes, 109-112, 237. 



.^ 



Eggs, recipes, a la goldenrod, 112. 

coddled, no. 

foamy omelet, in. 

French omelet, in. 

hard-cooked, 109. 

in-nest, in. 

omelets, no. 

poached, no. 

scrambled, no. 

scrambled with tomato sauce, 112. 

shirred or baked, 110. 

soft-cooked, 109. 

stuffed, 304. 

with cheese, 96. 

with grape juice, 9. 

references, 
Egg plant, 71. 
Escalloped. See Scalloped. 
Experiments, 3-6, 13-15, 26-33, 49~5i, 
60-64, 83-89, 107-109, 1 1 6- 1 1 8, 
125-126, 147-148, 172-179, 180- 
185, 260-261, 270-271, 285-286. 
See also under the different foods. 

Farinaceous desserts, 53-55, 312-313. 

apple tapioca, 53, 313. 

baked Indian, 54. 

coffee sago, 54. 

cornstarch pudding, 53. 

orange, 55. 

rice, 55, 312. 

shredded wheat, 55. 

Fat, experiments with deep fat frying, 
116-118. 

See also Food Values and the general 
discussions of the individual 
foods. 

Fehling-Benedict solution, 13. 
Fifty servings, recipes for, 

beverages, 295-296. 

breads, 306-307. 

cakes, 308-309. 

cereals, 297. 

cheese straws, 311. 

cookies, 310. 

desserts, 311-314. 

doughnuts, 310. 

fish, 305-306. 

frozen desserts, 314. 

fruits, 296-297. 

mayonnaise dressing, 310. 



INDEX 



Fifty servings, recipes for, meats, 302-303. 

meat substitutes, 303-305. 

muffins, 307-308. 

oysters, scalloped, 306. 

salads, 310-311. 

soups, 300-302. 

vegetables, 298-299. 
Fillings for cake, 220, 223, 233-234. 

chocolate, 223, 233. 

cream, 233. 

fig and fruit, 234. 

Lady Baltimore, 220. 

lemon, 233. 

orange, 233. 
Fish, 158-165, 171, 305-306. 

baked, stuffed, 160, 306. 

boiled, 1 60. 

boning, 159. 

broiled, 160. 

chowder, 162. 

cleaning, 159. 

codfish balls, 306. 

cooking, 159, 161. 

creamed cod, 305. 

food value, 165. 

general discussion, 158-159. 

recipes, 160-162, 305-306. See also 
under name of each dish. 

references, 171. 

salmon cutlets, 305. 

sauces, 159, 163-164. 

scalloped, 162, 305. 

steamed, 160. 

stuffing for, 1 60. 

vegetables suitable for serving with, 

159- 

Fish balls, 161. 
Flounder, turbans of, 161. 
Flour mixtures, 172-247, 266-267. 
classification, 185-187. 
experiments, 172-185. 
food values, 198, 205, 217, 229, 230. 
general discussion, 172. 
oven temperatures, 187. 
pastry, 234-242. 
recipes, 189-195, 196-204, 206-215, 

218-227, 235-240, 243-247, 266- 

267. 

references, 187-188. 
score cards, 195, 196, 197, 205, 216, 

227, 228, 241, 242. 



Flour mixtures, steamed, 266-267. 

using sour milk, buttermilk, sour 

cream, 243-247. 

Food values, 20, 77-79, 92, 104-105, 113, 
165, 198, 205, 217, 220-230, 259, 
263-264, 283. 

apple sauce, 20. 

beans, baked, 77. 

biscuits, 198. 

boiled dressing, 264. 

cake, chocolate, 229. 

cake, sponge, 230. 

creamed codfish on toast, 165. 

cream soups, 78-79. 

custard, baked, 92. 

egg, scrambled, 113. 

French dressing, 264. 

gingerbread, 229. 

hermits, 217. 

ice cream, 283. 

macaroni and cheese, 104. 

mayonnaise dressing, 263. 

molasses cookies, 217. 

muffins, 205. 

potatoes, creamed, 78. 

prunes, stewed, 20. 

rice pudding with eggs, 92. 

rice with cheese and tomatoes, 105. 

salads, 259. 

sandwich, 259. 

sherbet, milk, 283. 
Fritters, 200-201. 
Frostings, 226, 227, 230-232. 

caramel, 231. 

chocolate, 230, 231, 232. 

cocoa, 232. 

coffee, 232. 

confectioners', 231. 

cooked, 230-231. 

fudge, 231. 

glaze, 227. 

maple, 231.. 

mocha, 232. 

mocha for sponge cake, 226. 

orange, 232. 

White Mountain, 230. 
Frozen mixtures, 269-283. 

binders, 272. 

classification, 273. 

experiments, 270-271. 

fillers, 272. 



320 



INDEX 



Frozen mixtures, food values, 283. 

general discussion, 269-270. 

ice cream powders, 272. 

recipes, 274-281. 

references, 283. 

score cards, 282. 
Fruits, i, 11-21, 52, 296, 297. 

acids of, 2. 

apple sauce, 296. 

apricots stewed, 296. 

chemical composition, n. 

combinations of, with cereals, 52, 
297. 

cooking, reasons for, 12. 

cranberry jelly, 296. 

dietetic value, n. 

dried, general rules, 18. 

experiments, 13-15. 

food values, 20. 

general classes, n, 22-24. 

general rules for preparation, 12. 

preservation, 22, 25, 33. See also 
Canning. 

purchasing, 12. 

recipes, 16-19. 

references, 20-21. 

rhubarb, baked, 296. 

score cards for preserved fruits, 
45- 

Gelatin, 124, 146-151. 

as protein food, 124. 

culture media, 28. 

experiments, 147-148. 

general discussion, 146-147. 

recipes, 148-151. 

score cards, 151. 
Gingerbread, 103, 104, 223, 247. 
Grape, conserve, 42. 

juice, i, 9, 38. 

spiced, 40. 
Grapefruit marmalade, 39. See also 

Fruits. 

Gravy, 136, 155. 
Griddlecakes, 198-199. 

corn meal, 199. 

general rules, 199. 

sour milk, 198. 

sweet milk, 198. 

wheat, 198. 
Gruels, 56. 



Haddock, planked, 161. 
Hash, browned, 142. 
Honey (so called), 23. 

Ice creams, 274-276, 280. 

baked Alaska, 280. 

caramel, 275. 

chocolate, 276, 314. 

coffee, 276. 

frozen custard, 274-275, 314. 

lacto, 276. 

molds, 280. 

prune, 275. 

strawberry, 274, 314. 

vanilla, 274. 
Ices, 277-279. 

apricot, 278. 

currant, 278. 

currant and raspberry, 278. 

ginger, 279. 

grape juice, 278. 

lemon, 277. 

mint, 279. 

orange, 277. 

peach, 278. 

pineapple, 278. 

raspberry, 278. 

strawberry, 278. 
Iodine test for starch, 13. 

Jam, 23. ^ 

Jellies with gelatin, 148-149. 

coffee, 149. 

fruit, 149. 

lemon, 149. 

orange, 149. 

prune, 149. 

wine, 149. 
Jelly making, 14, 18, 23, 32, 35-36, 

39- 
Junket, 86, 313. 

i 

Lamb. See Meat. 

Lamb chops, 137. 

Lead acetate solution, 3. 

Leavens Leavening agents, 179. 

Lemonade, i, 9, 295. 

Lemon whey, 8. 

Lobster, 169-170. 

general directions, 169. 

Newburg, 170. 



INDEX 



321 



Macaroni, 207-209, 304. 

baked with cheese, 208, 304. 

boiled, 207. 

cheese and tomato sauce, 209. 

Italian style, 208. 
Macaroons, 150. 
Malic acid, 2. 
Marmalades, 33, 39. 

grapefruit, 39. 

yellow tomato, 39. 
Meat, 123-152, 302, 303. 

beef, 135-143- 

broiling, 137. 

cakes, 142. 

casserole, 143. 

cuts of beef, 127-128. 

cuts of lamb, 130. 

cuts of mutton, 130. 

cuts of pork, 131. 

cuts of veal, 129. 

experiments, 125-126. 

general discussion, 123-124. 

hash, browned, 142. 

lamb chops, 137. 

left-over, 142-144. 

mutton chops, broiling, 137. 

recipes, 135-144. 

references, 151-152. 

roasting, 135. 

rules for tender cuts, 135-140. 

rules for tough cuts, 140-144. 

sauces, 144-146. 

score card, 146. 

table for roasting, 135. 

veal casserole, 143. 
Meringues, 212. 
Microorganisms, 25. 
Milk, 82-94. 

experiments, 83-89. 

food values, 92. 

general discussion, 82-83. 

recipes, 89-92. 

references, 93-94. 

sour, recipes using, 243-247. 
Millon test for protein, 13. 
Mineral matter. See Food Values and 
the general discussions of the dif- 
ferent foods. 
Molds, 25-26. 
Mousses, 280-281. 

chocolate, 281. 



Mousses, coffee, 280. 

fruit, 281. 

grape juice, 281. 

strawberry, 281. 
Muffins, Berkshire, 203. 

blueberry, 204. 

bran, 203. 

bran with corn, 203. 

corn meal, 202, 244, 307. 

entire wheat, 202. 

for fifty servings, 307, 308. 

general rules, 202. 

graham, 202, 308. 

hominy, 203. 

one egg, 202. 

rice, 203. 

southern pone, 204. 

southern spoon corn bread, 204. 

wheat, 202, 307. 
Mutton. See Meat. 
Mutton chops, 137. 

Noodles, 208. 

Nutritive value of cooked foods, 19. 
See also Food Values. 

Oatmeal, 297. 

apples in sirup with, 52. 

gruel, 56. 

water, 9. 

with dates, 52. 
Oils, experiments, 260-261. 
Olives, 159, 256-257. 
Omelets, iio-m, 98. 

cheese, 98. 

foamy, in. 

French, in. 
Onions, 59. 
Orangeade, i. 

Oven temperature, 175, 187. 
Oysters, 168-169. 

broth, 1 68. 

cocktail, 1 68. 

fricassee, 169. 

fried, 168. 

' ' pigs-in-blankets, " 1 69 . 

stew, 168. 

Pan-broiling, 137, 138. 
Parfaits, 281. 



322 



INDEX 



Parfaits, golden, 281. 

silver, 281. 
Parsnips, 68. 
Pastes, flour, 207-208. 

plain, 235. 

puff, 235. 
Pastry, 235-240. 

Banbury filling, 237. 

Banbury tarts, 236. 

cheese straws, 236. 

meringue, 237. 

patties, 236. 

tarts and turnovers, 240. 
Peaches, 37. 
Pears, 17, 40. 
Peas, 65. 
Pectin, 12, 14. 
Peppers, 

pickled, 44. 

stuffed, 69, 299. 
Pickles, 43-44- 

cucumber, 44. 

mustard, 43. 

red pepper, 44. 

sweet, 43. 

tomato, 44. 
Pickling, 24, 43-44- 

fruits suitable for, 24. 

recipes, 43-44- 

vegetables suitable for, 24. 
Pie, 237-240. 

apple, 239. 

chocolate, 237. 

coconut, 237. 

cream, 237. 

custard 238. 

green tomato mince, 240. 

lemon, 237. 

mince, 239. 

mock cherry, 238. 

pumpkin, 238. 

sour cream, 238. 
Popovers, 206. 
Pork. See Meat. 
Potassium acid tartrate, 2. 
Potato, 66-68, 298. 

apples, 67. 

mashed, 298. 

puff, 67. 

souffle, 67. 

stuffed, baked, 66. 



Potato, sweet, glazed, 68. 

sweet, puff, 67. 
Poultry, 153-157. See also Chicken. 

boning, 154. 

cleaning and dressing, 153-154. 

general discussion, 153. 

recipes, 154-15?- 

trussing, 154. 
Preserves, 22-46. 

definition, 33. 

experiments, 26-33. 

fruits, suitable for, 22. 

general directions for, 34. 

recipes, 39-42. 

references, 45-46. 

score card, 45. 

utensils necessary for, 33. 
Preserving, 22-46. See also Canning. 
Protein. See Experiments, Food Values, 
and the general discussions of the 
different foods. 
Prunes, stewed, 296. 

Puddings, 53-55, 65, 91-92, 244, 266- 
267, 279-280, 311-314. 

apple tapioca, 53, 313. 

baked Indian, 54. 

bread, 91. 

chocolate bread, 92, 313. 

chocolate custard, 312. 

coffee cream, 311. 

coffee sago, 54. 

corn, 65, 299. 

cornstarch, 53. 

cup custard, 312. 

date, 266. 

fig, 267. 

frozen, 279. 

fruit, 267. 

graham, 244. 

hard sauce, 313. 

Hunter's, 267. 

junket, 313. 

junket, chocolate, 313. 

meringue, 313. 

Nesselrode, 279. 

Nesselrode, sauce for, 280. 

orange, 55. 

plum, 244, 267. 

queen of, 92. 

rice, 91, 312. 

shredded wheat, 55. 



INDEX 



323 



Puddings, snow, 150, 311. 

snow balls, 267. 

soft chocolate custard, 312. 

soft custard, 312. 

steamed, 314. 

steamed Indian, 266. 

tapioca, 91. 
Pudding sauces, 268-269, 274, 280. 

classification, 268. 

chocolate, 274. 

cream, 269. 

hard, 268. 

lemon, 268. 

Nesselrode pudding, 280. 

Sabayon, 269. 

sterling, 268. 

vanilla, 269. 
Punch, fruit, 296. 
Purees, 76-77. 

black bean, 77. 

corn, 75, 76. 

pea, 76. 

potato, 76. 

Quinces, baked, 17. 

Rarebit, Welsh, 98, 99. 
Raspberry vinegar, 38. 
References, 10, 20-21, 45-46, 56-57, So- 
81, 93-94. 105-106, 122, 151-152, 
171, 187-188, 264-265, 283, 294. 

beverages, 10. 

butter, 94. 

canning and preserving, 45-46. 

cereals, 56-57. 

cheese, 105-106. 

eggs, 122. 

fish and shellfish, 171. 

flour and bread, 187-188. 

fruits, 20-21. 

ice cream, 283. 

meat, 151-152. 

milk, 93-94- 

oils, 264-265. 

soups, 81. 

sugar, 294. 

vegetables, 80. 
Rhubarb, baked, 296. 
Rice, 47-52, 55, 91-92, 105, 143, 297. 

experiments, 49. 

creamed, 305. 



Rice, in sirup with apples, 52. 

methods of preparation, 51, 52, 91, 92, 
143, 297, 302, 304, 305. 

with cheese and tomatoes, 105. 
Roasting, 135. 
Rolls, 192-195, 307. 

Dorcas, 192. 

glaze for, 195. 

hot cross buns, 194. 

luncheon, 194. 

Parker House, 192. 

Swedish, 193. 
Royal scallop, 144. 

Salads, 248-255, 261-263, 310-311. 

accessories served with, 251. 

combinations, 252, 253, 254. 

dressings, 249, 261-263. 

food value, 259. 

foundation, 248-249. 

general discussion, 248. 

greens, 248, 251. 

variations in dressing, 249-250. 

when served, 250-251. 
Salad dressings, 261-263. 

boiled, 262. 

cream, 262. 

French, 261, 262. 

mayonnaise, 263. 

Spanish, 262. 
Salmon. See Fish. 
Sandwiches, 255-259. 

conveyor of filling, 255-256. 

fancy, 258. 

fillings, 256-257. 

food value, 259. 

general rules, 255. 

Sauce, 144-146, 163-164, 268-269, 274, 
280, 304. 

Bechamel, 163. 

brown, 144. 

brown mushroom, 145. 

chocolate, 274. 

classification, 268. 

cream, 269. 

Cuban, 145. 

drawn butter, 163. 

egg, 163. 

hard, 268. 

Hollandaise, 164. 

horseradish, 146. 



3 2 4 



INDEX 



Sauce, lemon, 268. 

Maitre d'Hotel butter, 164. 
mock Hollandaise, 164 
mushroom, 145. 
Nesselrode, 280. 
tartare, 164. 

tomato, for rice or macaroni, 304. 
Sabayon, 269. 
Spanish, 146. 
sterling, 268. 
vanilla, 269. 

Scalloped dishes, 73-74, 144, 303. 
apples, 74. 
crumbs for, 73. 
general rules, 73. 
meat, 303. 
oysters, 306. 
royal, 144. 
tomatoes, 74. 
vegetables, 73. 
Score cards, 45, 121, 146, 151, 195-197, 

205, 216, 227-228, 241-242, 282. 
biscuits, 196, 197. 
bread, 195. 
canned fruits, 45. 
cookies, 216. 
croquettes, 121. 
custard ice cream, 28 ;?. 
gelatin desserts, 151. 
layer cake, 228. 
loaf cake, 227. 
meat roast, 146. 
muffins, 205. 

Philadelphia ice cream, 282. 
pies, 241, 242. 
preserves, 45. 
sherbets and ices, 282. 
sponge cake, 228. 
Shad roe, 161. 
Shellfish, 165-171. 
Sherbets, 276-277. 
combination, 277. 
milk, 276. 
orange, 277. 
pineapple, 277. 
Smelts, 161. 
Soda (sodium bicarbonate), 86, 180, 

181. 

Souffles, 67, 69, 100, 113-115. 
cheese, 115. 
cheese, corn and, 115. 



Souffles, cheese, with pastry, TOO. 
custard, 114. 
essentials for, 113. 
fruit, 114. 
lamb, 144. 
lemon, 114. 
meat, 115. 
potato, 67. 
squash, 69. 
varieties, 114. 
vegetable, 115. 
Soups, 100-101, 132-134. (See also 

Cream, and Purees.) 
brown stock, 133, 300. 
chicken, 133. 
cream of celery, 75, 300. 
cream of corn, 300. 
cream of potato, 300. 
cream of tomato, 75, 300. 
Creole, 134, 301. 
general discussion, 132. 
macaroni, 302. 
meat left from, 132-133. 
milk and cheese, 100. 
Mongole, 134, 301. 
noodle, 302. 
rice, 302. 

stock classification, 132. 
to clear stock, 133. 
uses for stock, 132. 
vegetable, 134, 301. 
vegetable and cheese, 101. 
Spaghetti, 207, 209. 
boiled, 207. 
loaf, 209. 

Spanish cream, 150. 
macaroon, 150. 
plain, 150. 

Spinach. See Vegetables. 
Sponges, gelatin, 149. 
chocolate, 149. 
pineapple, 149. 
Squash, 69-70. 
baked summer, 70. 
souffle, 69. 
winter, 69. 

Starch. See Experiments. 
Steak, stuffed flank, 144. 
Stuffing, 

for chicken, 155. 
for fish, 1 60. 



INDEX 



3 2 5 



Stuffing, for flank steak, 136. 
Sugar, 34, 285-290. 

canning with, 34. 

canning without, 34. 

experiments, 285-286. 

fondant, 286-287. 

uses, 287-290. 
Sweetbreads, 139, 140. 

broiled, 139. 

creamed, 140. 
Sweet potatoes, 67, 68, 299. 

Tannin, 3. 

Tartrate, potassium acid, 2. 

Tea, 1-4, 6-7, 295. 

experiments, 3-4. 

recipes, 6-7, 295. 
Temperatures. See Experiments, 

Oven Temperature. 
Theine, 2. 
Theobromine, 2. 
Timbale cases, 199-200. 
Tomatoes, 37, 38, 44, 74, 299. 

canned, 37. 

marmalade, 39. 

pickled, 44. 

scalloped, 74. 

stewed, 299. 

Veal. See Meat. 
Veal en Casserole, 143. 



and 



Veal loaf, 303. 

Vegetables, 22, 24, 58-73, 101, 159, 298, 
299. ^ 

classification, 58-59. 

creamed, 73. 

en Casserole, 70. 

experiments, 60-64. 

general discussion, 58. 

general rules for cooking, 60. 

methods of preservation, 22. 

points to emphasize, 59. 

reasons for cooking, 59. 

scalloped, 73. 

suitable for canning, 24. 

suitable for pickling, 24. 

suitable with fish, 159. 

ways of serving, 60. 
Volatile oils, 3. 

Waffles, 198-199. 

corn meal, 199. 

general rules, 199. 

sour milk, 198. 

sweet milk, 198. 

wheat, 198. 
Welsh rarebit, 98, 99. 
Whey, lemon, 8. 

Xanthoproteic reaction for proteins, 85. 
Yeasts, 26. 



Printed in the United States of America. 



T 



HE following pages contain advertisements of a 
few of the Macmillan books on kindred subjects 



A Laboratory Hand-book for Dietetics 

BY MARY SWARTZ ROSE, PH.D. 

Assistant Professor, Department of Nutrition, Teachers College, Columbia University 

Cloth, 8vo, $2.10 

Investigations into the quantitative requirements of the human body have progressed so 
far as to make dietetics to a certain extent an exact science, and to emphasize the importance 
of a quantitative study of food materials. This little book explains the problems involved in 
the calculation of food values and food requirements, and the construction of dietaries, and 
furnishes reference tables which will minimize the labor involved in such work without limiting 
dietary study to a few food materials. 

Only brief statements of the conditions affecting food requirements have been made, the 
reader being referred to general textbooks on the subject of nutrition for fuller information, 
but such data have been included as seem most useful in determining the amount of food for 
any normal individual under varying conditions of age and activity. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PART I 
Food Values and Food Requirements. 

THE COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 
THE FUNCTIONS OF FOOD. 

Food as a Source of Energy. 

Food as Building Material. 

Food in the Regulation of Body Processes. 

FOOD REQUIREMENT. 

The Energy Requirement of Normal Adults. 
The Energy Requirement of Children. 
The Energy Requirement of the Aged. 
The Protein Requirement. 
The Fat and Carbohydrate Requirement. 
The Ash Requirement. 

PART II 

Problems in Dietary Calculations. 

Studies in Weight, Measure, and Cost of Some Common Food Materials. 

Relation between Percentage Composition and Weight. 

Calulation of the Fuel Value of a Single Food Material. 

Calculation of the Weight of a Standard or loo-Calorie Portion. 

Food Value of a Combination of Food Materials. 

Distribution of Foodstuffs in a Standard Portion of a Single Food Material. 

Calculation of a Standard Portion of a Combination of Food Materials. 

Analysis of a Recipe. 

Modification of Cow's Milk to a Required Formula. 

Calculation of the Percentage Composition of a Food Mixture. 

The Calculation of a Complete Dietary. 

Scoring of the Dietary. 

Reference Tables. 

Refuse in Food Materials. 

Conversion Tables Grams to Ounces. 

Conversion Tables Ounces to Grams. 

Conversion Tables Pounds to Grams. 

Food Values in Terms of Standard Units of Weight. 

Ash Constituents in Percentages of the Edible Portion. 

Ash Constituents in Standard or loo-Calorie Portions. 

APPENDIX 
The Equipment of a Dietetics Laboratory. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York 



r 

Food Products 

BY HENRY C. SHERMAN 

Professor of Food Chemistry in Columbia University 

Illustrated, cloth, I2mo, 594 pages, $2.25 

A comprehensive, descriptive text-book on the gen- 
eral subject of foods. The first and second chapters 
deal with the principal constituents and functions of 
food and with food legislation ; then follow chapters 
on : Milk ; Cheese and Other Milk Products ; Eggs, 
Meats and Meat Products ; Poultry, Fish and Shell- 
fish ; Grain Products ; Vegetables, Fruits and Nuts ; 
Edible Fats and Oils ; Sugar, Molasses, Sirups and 
Confectionery ; and Food Adjuncts. The plan of 
the book makes it easy for the teacher to follow a 
different order of topics if desired. 



"Admirable." -Science. 

" A really excellent text-book." 

- Educational Review. 

" A valuable contribution to the literature of foods 
as well as a scientific presentation of many new facts 
regarding food values." -Insurance. 

" A scientific study of great value." 

New York Times. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York 



BY HENRY C. SHERMAN, PH.D. 

Professor in Columbia University 

Chemistry of Food and Nutrition 

Cloth, I2mo, mil -\- 355 pages, $1.50 

The purpose of this volume is to present the principles of 
the chemistry of food and nutrition with special reference to 
the food requirements of man and the considerations which 
should underlie our judgment of the nutritive values of food. 
The food is here considered chiefly in its nutritive relations. 
It is hoped that the more detailed description of individual 
foods and the chemical and legal control of the food indus- 
try may be treated in a companion volume later. 

The present work is the outgrowth of several years' experi- 
ence in teaching the subject to collegiate and technical 
students who have represented a considerable diversity of 
previous training and points of view, and, while published 
primarily to meet the needs of the author's classes, it is 
hoped that it may also be of service to students and teachers 
elsewhere and to general readers whose main interest may 
lie in other fields, but who appreciate the importance of food 
and nutrition as factors in hygiene and preventive medicine. 

While neither the size nor the purpose of this book would 
permit an historical or technically critical treatment, a limited 
number of historical investigations and controverted views 
have been mentioned in order to give an idea of the nature 
and validity of the evidence on which our present beliefs 
are based, and in some cases to put the reader on his guard 
against theories which, while now outgrown, are still some- 
times encountered. 

PUBLISHED BY 

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

64-66 Fifth Avenue, New York 



Household Bacteriology 

BY 

ESTELLE D. BUCHANAN, M.S. 
Recently Assistant Professor of Botany, Iowa State College 

AND 

ROBERT EARLE BUCHANAN, PH.D. 

Professor of Bacteriology, Iowa State College, and Bacteriologist of the 
Iowa Agricultural Experiment Station 

Cloth, 8vo, xv +536 pp., index, $2.25 

The word Household is used as an extension rather than a limitation of the 
title. In a thoroughly scientific manner the authors treat the subject-matter 
of general as well as of household bacteriology and include, therefore, the 
true bacteria as well as the yeasts, molds, and protozoa. The volume is, 
therefore, a general textbook of micro-biology in which special attention is 
given to those problems which are of particular interest to the student of 
household science. The main divisions cf the book treat (i) the micro- 
organisms themselves, (2) fermentations with special reference to those 
affecting foods, (3) the relations of bacteria and other micro-organisms to 
health. A fully illustrated key (comprising 37 pages) to the families and 
genera of common molds supplements the unusually extended discussion of 
the morphology and classification of yeasts and molds, and makes possible 
the satisfactory identification of all forms ordinarily encountered by the 
student. The work embodies the results of the most recent researches. The 
book is exceptionally well written, the different topics are treated con- 
sistently and with a good sense of proportion. While concise in statement, it 
is thorough in method and scope. It is, therefore, well adapted for use as a 
text not only for students of household science, but also for those to whom it is 
desired to present the science of bacteriology from an economic and sanitary 
rather than from a strictly medical point ofvieiv, 

"The book is a concisely written work on micro-biology, a branch of 
economic science that the public is beginning gradually to understand, has 
important relationship to the total welfare and prosperity of the community. 
. . . The manual can be recommended as a very good elementary bacteri- 
ology. It comprises about all there is of practical domestic value." 

Boston Advertiser. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York 



Textiles 

A Handbook for the Student and the Consumer 



BY 



MARY SCHENCK WOOLMAN, B.S. 

President of the Women's Educational and Industrial Union, Boston, acting head 

of the Department of Household Economics, Simmons College, recently 

Professor of Domestic Art in Teachers College 

AND 

ELLEN BEERS McGOWAN, B.S. 

Instructor in Household Arts in Teachers College, Columbia University 
Ilhistrated, Cloth, I2mo, xi-\-42& pp.. Index, Bibliography, $2.00 

This book is the result of twenty years' experience in teaching textiles to 
college students. It is intended as a textbook for college classes or for study 
clubs and as a guide for the housekeeper or individual consumer of textiles 
and clothing, the teacher, the club woman, the saleswoman, and as an intro- 
ductory survey of the subject for the student who contemplates professional 
work in the textile industries. 

The growing emphasis upon textile study in college departments of home 
economics or household arts, and the increasing use of the textile industry as 
teaching material in other departments and other grades of schools, shows a 
recognition of the part that the textiles are playing in the development of 
civilization and in our everyday life. Interest in the subject is still further 
accentuated by the movements now on foot to regulate the social-economic 
conditions in the textile and clothing industries and to secure standardization 
and honest labeling of textile products, as is being done for food products by 
the " pure food laws." 

To meet the existing need the authors have attempted to prepare a text 
suitable for use in college classes or by the public, shorter and more readable 
than the technical handbooks, yet sufficiently thorough and comprehensive to 
give a sound grasp of the subject as a whole with so much of the technology 
as is directly helpful to the consumer and as should be included in general 
courses in colleges and technical or vocational schools. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York 



Physics of the Household 

BY C. J. LYNDE 

Professor of Physics in Macdonald College, Canada 

Illustrated, i2mo, $1.25 

This book presents in an exceptionally clear and direct manner the 
subject matter of a concise yet sufficiently comprehensive course for those 
beginning the study of physics whether in the college, the technical insti- 
tute, or the secondary school. The principles are made clear by applica- 
tion to household affairs and other every-day experiences. Although 
adapted to the requirements of beginners, those who have previously 
studied physics will also welcome the concise review of principles and the 
many applications and illustrations. In addition to its merits as a text- 
book, it constitutes a most interesting and useful manual on household 
appliances and processes. Any one who is interested either in knowing 
just how the familiar appliances work, or in equipping a house according 
to the most modern methods, will find in Professor Lynde's book a wealth 
of stimulating and highly practical information. 



Elementary Household Chemistry 

BY J. F. SNELL 

Professor of Chemistry in Macdonald College, Canada 

Illustrated, I2mo, $1.25 

In this textbook are to be found many new features both in the selec- 
tion and in the presentation of its subject matter. The principles of 
chemistry are developed and their every-day applications are studied 
simultaneously. The book is the outgrowth of a course given by the 
author for the last six years to students of high school and college age, but 
of varying degrees of preliminary training. The course has, therefore, 
been simple and the aim has been to introduce only such principles as 
rind immediate application in connection with household work, but to 
present these principles in a correct and truly scientific manner. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York 



.4EW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY 
REFERENCE DEPARTMENT 



This book is under no circumstances to be 
taken from the Building 



ft* - ' , 



. 























.' 



'- 

























* 



^ 



lui-ni 410 



