Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for general ions on library shelves before il was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

Il has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often diflicult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parlies, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the plus We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a b<x>k is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 

countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means il can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's hooks while helping authors ami publishers reach new audiences. You can search through I lie lull text of this book on I lie web 
at |http : //books . qooqle . com/| 



HARPER'S A-B-C SERIES 



A-B-C OF COOKING. 

By Christine Terhune Herrick 

A-B-C OF GOLF. By John D. Dunn 

A-B-C OF VEGETABLE GARDENING. 
By Eben E. Rexford 

A-B-C OF CORRECT SPEECH. 
By Florence Howe Hall 

A-B-C OF ARCHITECTURE. By Frank E. Wallis 

A-B-C OF HOUSEKEEPING. 

By Christine Terhune Herrick 

A-B-C OF ELECTRICITY. 

By William H. Meadowcroft 

A-B-C OF GARDENING. By Eben E. Rexford 

A-B-C OF GOOD FORM. By Anne Seymour 

A-B-C OF AUTOMOBILE DRIVING. 
By Alpheus H. Verrill 

A-B-C OF MOTION PICTURES. 
By Robert E. Welsh 

A-B-C OF HOME SAVING. By Lissie C. Farmer 

16mo, Cloth 



HARPER & BROTHERS. NEW YORK 




CHRISTINE TERHUNE HERRICK 



a-b-c of housekeeping 



HARPER & BROTHERS PUBUSHERS 
NEW YORK V LONDON 



LpHI.S 



A-B-C of Cooking 



Copyright, 1016, by Harper & Brothers 

Printed in the United States of America 

Published April, 1916 



CONTENTS 

CHAP. PAGE 

I. Furnishing the Kitchen 1 

II. Ordinary Methods of Cookery .... 12 

III. Food and Work 24 

IV. Soups, Broths, Fish 32 

V. Choice and Cookery of Meats and 

Poultry 42 

VI. Cheese, Eggs, Vegetables 56 

VII. Bread-making 67 

VIII. Sweets of Different Kinds 78 

IX. Canning, Preserving, Pickling .... 91 

X. Left-overs and Their Uses 102 



A-B-C OF COOKING 



ABC OF COOKING 



FURNISHING THE KITCHEN 
# 

IN early days a big kitchen was taken for 
granted by a builder. In this period we have 
learned that the greater the area of the room 
the more is the exertion demanded by the 
worker. A kitchen of small or medium size, 
compactly planned, judiciously arranged, 
provides the maximum of efficiency at the 
minimum of effort. 

The best floor-covering for the ordinary 
home kitchen is linoleum. It is easily kept 
clean, is neat in appearance, and, if a good 
quality is purchased, wears well. A strip of 
carpet or a rug should be laid by the mixing- 
table for the worker to stand on. 

The walls are best painted. A light color- 

l 



A-B-C OF COOKING 



t 

\ 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

preference usually settles upon gas as the 
best fuel. Directions for managing this 
come with the stoves, but there is a large 
choice among these. 

Lacking the ability to have a gas-range, 
an oil-stove is a potent aid in keeping the 
kitchen cool in summer and in sparing the 
labor of carrying in coal and taking out 
ashes. Yet since the large proportion of 
housekeepers use wood and coal for fuel, 
knowledge of the art of making fires with 
each is essential to most domestic workers.. 

For either kind of fuel the first step is to 
close the draughts of the stove, take off the 
tops, and brush down . ashes, cinders, and 
clinkers that have accumulated in the fire- 
box. The tops must then be replaced, the 
grate dumped, and after the ashes have had 
a couple of minutes to settle the covers may 
again be removed and the fire made. An 
unfolded and crumpled newspaper is laid in 
the grate and kindlings heaped lightly upon 
this, putting these so that the air will have 
space to pass between them; the draughts 
are opened, the paper lighted, and the tops 
replaced. 

In a few minutes the kindling will be in a 
hot blaze and then the heavier sticks may 
go in, if wood is the fuel by which cooking 



FURNISHING THE KITCHEN 

is done. When coal is used one or two shovel- 
fuls will be enough at the first. More dead- 
ens the fire and takes a long time to kindle, 
if it does not extinguish the flame entirely. 
As soon as either the wood or the coal is 
fairly burning the draughts may be closed. 

1 quote here paragraphs on the kitchen 
fire, taken from A-B-C of Housekeeping: 

For housekeepers it is well to know that the most 
advantageous mixture of coal for the average-sized 
range is a blending of egg-coal and nut-coal, in the 
proportions of equal parts of the red ash and the white 
ash. The latter burns more slowly than the former, 
while this gives a stronger fire and makes fewer cinders. 

A fresh fire need not be made oftener than once a 
week if the housekeeper is careful to rake out the 
ashes at bedtime, put on fresh coal, open the draughts 
for ten or fifteen minutes or until the new coal is fairly 
kindled, then close the draughts and leave the upper 
door of the stove open. In the morning the draughts 
have only to be opened after the upper door has been 
closed and a little fresh coal put on as soon as the 
fire begins to be red. Not until this has begun to 
burn well should a further small supply of coal be 
added. This mode is much more economical of fuel 
and work than making a fresh fire every day. 

In this connection it is well to state that, 
no matter how strong a heat is required for 
baking or other cookery, the fire should 

never be permitted to attain the point where 

2 5 



I 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

the red coals begin to whiten, before more 
coal is added. Neither should the fire be- 
come so low that kindling must be used to 
coax it back to life. When the fire is not 
needed the draughts may be closed and the 
door of the range opened a little, but heed 
must be given not to let it sink too low be- 
fore putting on a small amount of coal that 
will prevent the fire from going out entirely. 

When decision has been made as to where 
the stove and the table shall stand — a ques- 
tion which is often arbitrarily settled by the 
shape of the room, the location of the chim- 
ney, and other conditions — the matter of 
placing utensils must be settled. The for- 
tunate woman is she who owns a kitchen 
cabinet which contains space for various 
supplies as well as offers a shelf on which to 
roll pastry, work bread, and the like. Sec- 
ond in value to this, but more useful than the 
ordinary kitchen table, is one with a sliding 
shelf, a couple of shallow drawers for cutlery, 
and two deep drawers below for vegetables 
or other provisions. 

In default of either of these the house- 
keeper who wishes to do her work efficiently 
in every way should have a set of shelves 
placed above her mixing-table. On these 
may stand such provisions as are in frequent 



FURNISHING THE KITCHEN 

use — condiments like salt, pepper, vinegar, 
and the like; a spice-cabinet; glass jars 
holding dry groceries — rice, tapioca, cracker- 
crumbs, cornstarch, etc. The coffee- and 
tea-canisters may also be here, and none of 
them should be so high that the worker 
must stretch to take it down. 

On a row of hooks close to the table should 
hang the smaller utensils that are constantly 
employed in preparing food. The mixing- 
spoons, the strainers, skimmers, graters, 
apple-corer, corkscrew, egg-beater, should 
all be there within easy reach, and there 
should be space on the shelves for bowls, 
dishes, cups, and so on. To protect these 
from the dust they may be turned upside 
down. The measuring-cup may hang with 
the colander and other articles which are 
taken down and replaced two or three times 
in a day. 

The implements most constantly employed 
in cookery must be near the stove. Among 
these are the basting-spoons, the potato- 
masher, the cake-turner, the omelet-knife, 
the split spoon, as well as the frying-pan, 
the double boilers, saucepans, the griddle, 
and gridiron. When possible the stove 
and the mixing-table should not be too far 
apart. 

7 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

In the vicinity of the sink is the place for 
the dish-pans, mops, wire pot-cleaner, the 
soap-shaker, the small brush for scouring 
potatoes, and other things used in washing 
and drying dishes. The rack on which to 
hang the dish-towels should be in the sun, 
if this can be managed, and if not, near the 
stove, that they may dry quickly. It may 
not be out of place here to emphasize the ne- 
cessity of scalding out or boiling the dish- 
towels every day and of rinsing them out 
with ammonia and hot water when they 
become greasy. 

Other aids in securing efficient service con- 
sist in having the bread- and cake-boxes 
close to the table on which their contents are 
cut; in standing the ice-box and the meat- 
safe near one another and neither one too 
remote from the spot where mixing and simi- 
lar preparations are performed. Whenever 
a step can be saved power is gained. 

The white and brown thickening and cara- 
mel that should be kept in the pantry, the 
salad dressing which can as well be mixed 
a day or two before it is to be used, the 
boiled icing for cake which will keep indefi- 
nitely, may all be made in the odd moments 
when the cook is waiting for bread or cake 

to bake or for the stew or soup to reach the 

8 



FURNISHING THE KITCHEN 

point when it can be transferred to the fire- 
less cooker. 

The following list of utensils, copied from 
A-B-C of Housekeeping, will serve as a guide 
to the woman who has the joy of fur- 
nishing her kitchen freshly. Sometimes a 
young housekeeper must begin her career 
with her closets already filled with old-fash- 
ioned implements too good to throw away. 
In that case she may stay her soul upon the 
reflection that some of the best results in the 
culinary line have been attained with just 
such plenishing as this, and cultivate pa- 
tience until she is able to replace the old 
articles by more modern appliances. 

Nearly all of the utensils named below 
may be considered essentials: 

Two 1-quart saucepans Two jelly-molds 

One 2-quart saucepan One pudding-mold 

One 5-quart saucepan One steamer 

One 2-quart double boiler One teakettle 

Two baking-pans for meat, One tea-pot 

or one plain baking-pan One coffee-pot 

and one covered roaster Fireless cooker 

One large frying-pan Chopping-bowl and knife 

One small frying-pan Meat-chopper or grinder 

One colander Soapstone griddle 
One graduated quart measure Cake-turner 

One graduated half -pint cup Bread-bowl and board 

One meat-broiler Rolling-pin, 



A-B-C OF COOKING 



One fish- or oyster-broiler 

Three jelly-cake tins 

One large cake-tin 

One biscuit-pan 

One set muffin-tins 

Three bread-tins 

Three pie-plates 

One 2-quart pitcher > 

Egg-beater 

Scales 

Lemon-squeezer 

Meat-fork 

One large crockery mixing- 
bowl 

Two small crockery mixing- 
bowls 

One platter 

Two pudding-dishes 

Set of skewers 

Cheese- or vegetable-grater 

Nutmeg-grater 

Vegetable-press 



Board for cutting meat 

Board for cutting bread 

Meat-saw 

Bread-knife 

Bread-box 

Cake-box 

Butter-paddles 

Potato-masher 

Soup-strainer 

Coffee- or tea-strainer 

Coffee-mill 

Corkscrew 

Pair of scissors 

Can-opener 

Small vegetable-knives 

Mixing-spoons 

Flour-dredger 

Salt-shaker 

Cake-cutters 

Split spoon 

Skimmer 

Ice-pick 



Other no less important articles are as 
follows : 



Two dish-pans Soap-shaker 

A garbage-pail with cover Wire dish-cloth 
Sink-brush Oil-can 

Brooms, dust-pans, whisk-brooms, etc. 

In addition to this the housekeeper may 
add to her stock from time to time casse- 
roles, nappies, crockery bowls or dishes for 

10 



FURNISHING THE KITCHEN 

holding left-overs, custard - cups, jelly and 
blanc-mange molds, fancy cake-cutters, an 
ice-cream freezer, additional pans for muf- 
fins, cake, etc. All these are very nice to 
have, but they cannot be counted necessi- 
ties, and the woman who is forced to practise 
economy can get along very well without 
them. 

If I have put a fireless cooker among the 
must-haves # it is because I believe it to be a 
genuine time- and fuel-saver and one of the 
best of economies. 

Canisters for holding flour, sugar, tea, 
coffee, and other dry groceries are excellent, 
but their place can be taken as well by glass 
jars with covers. These are better than un- 
marked tin or pasteboard boxes, since the 
contents of the jars can be detected at a 
glance, and the glass is so easily cleansed 
that there is no reason why it should ever 
become musty or ill-smelling. When sup- 
plies are stored in boxes or tins these should 
always be plainly marked so that time is not 
wasted by opening half a dozen receptacles 
in the search for the contents of one. 



II 

ORDINARY METHODS OF COOKERY 

A FAMILIARITY with terms used in 
cooking and with the processes they de- 
scribe is a necessity to the beginner in culi- 
nary affairs. She must learn not only the 
phraseology of the kitchen, but must acquire 
a knowledge of the methods for which di- 
rections are given in cook-books. 

Perhaps the simplest form of cookery is 
boiling. The inexperienced worker fills a 
kettle with water, sets it over the fire, and 
when steam begins to rise from the water 
takes it for granted that the boiling-point 
has been reached. Yet, even although the 
bottom of the kettle shows small bubbles, the 
water is not actually boiling until these 
bubbles rise to the surface in a hard and 
steady order. When this stage is attained 
the water is boiling, at that moment, but 
if the kettle is moved to the side of the stove, 

12 



ORDINARY METHODS OF COOKERY 

so that the ebullition ceases, the water is 
"off the boil." It is no longer boiling water, 
and to get it back to this condition it must 
be replaced in the hot spot and the bubbling-* 
point restored. 

Cold water can be brought to the boil in 
six or seven minutes over a gas-flame, but 
it requires more nearly twenty minutes on 
the coal or wood fire to reach the desired 
point. The best method of hastening the 
process is to fill the kettle only partially, 
since the less the quantity of water the 
more quickly it heats. 

The articles which are prepared at a hard 
boil are comparatively few. The water for 
making tea or coffee, that in which rice and 
some other vegetables are cooked, must be 
at a "galloping boil," and sometimes this 
kind of boil is demanded in cooking down 
liquids to a smaller quantity and thus in- 
creasing their strength while reducing their 
volume. As a rule the hard boil is to be 
avoided in cookery, and in its place must be 
used the gentle simmer. 

Soups and broths are prepared by simmer- 
ing; stews should be cooked at a simmer; a 
variety of preserves, pickles, and other con- 
diments must have a simmering boil to bring 

them to perfection. 

13 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

The simmer seems to be one of the most 
difficult processes for the ordinary untrained 
cook to master, and yet it is extremely simple. 
The liquid which simmers has a very gentle 
boil, with a succession of small bubbles at 
one side of the pot. When the bubbling ap- 
pears all over the surface of the fluid the 
simmering-point is passed and the boil has 
begun. 

The simmer is a potent aid to economy. 
Tough meat may be cooked to pieces by a 
rapid boil; it cannot be made either appe- 
tizing or wholesome. By the aid of the sim- 
mer cheap meats may be rendered pleasing 
to the eaters. 

Closely allied to simmering is stewing, 
although this term covers less than the other. 
Soups, jams, and a variety of other articles 
are simmered, but the word " stewing" is 
usually applied only to meat or certain 
preparations of vegetables. 

To stew meat it should be put over the 
fire in cold or tepid water. This should 
never be poured directly upon the meat. 
In some dishes the meat is first browned 
lightly in dripping, and when it reaches a 
certain stage of brownness the water is added 
to it, but turned in around the meat. The 
pot is then put at the side of the stove or 



ORDINARY METHODS OF COOKERY 

over a low flame of the gas- or oil-stove and 
allowed to come very slowly to the simmering- 
point, as described above. In order that the 
meat may cook evenly and thoroughly it 
must bfc cut into pieces of practically uni- 
form size. 

Sometimes the stewing is a lengthy proc- 
ess, if the meat is old and tough, and it is 
for such cuts that the fireless cooker is of 
particular value. The meat is brought to a 
steady boil over the fire, kept at this for 
twenty minutes to half an hour, and then 
transferred to the fireless cooker, where it is 
left for several hours. In some obstinate 
cases the meat must be set over the fire 
again at the end of eight or ten hours, heated 
once more to the boil, and then returned to 
the fireless cooker for a further period of 
slow simmering, which never fails in the 
end to make a tender product. 

The pot-roast, so-called, is like a stew, 
but differs from it in some respects. A piece 
of solid meat is chosen, sometimes plugged 
with strips or lardoons of salt pork or of 
suet. A sliced onion is fried in a little but- 
ter or dripping heated in the bottom of a 
broad pot, the meat laid in this for five min- 
utes, or enough to sear the surface lightly, 
then turned and cooked to the same extent 

15 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

on the other side. Two cups of warm water 
are then measured into the pot, taking pains 
not to pour it directly on the beef, and the 
vessel is placed where the water will reach 
a simmer, covered, and the meat allowed to 
cook until tender. 

Or the pot-roast may be put into the fire- 
less cooker after it has simmered for half 
to three-quarters of an hour — the shorter 
time for a small piece, the longer for a 
cut weighing over five pounds — and left in 
this for three or four hours, or more. Half 
an hour before the meat is to be served it 
may be set in the oven long enough to crisp 
the surface lightly, or sent to table with- 
out this treatment. The gravy must be 
thickened and seasoned and served with the 
meat. 

The best method for roasting a tender, 
juicy piece of meat is to have the pan in 
which it is to be cooked made very hot, to 
lay the meat in this, and put it into an oven 
that has been heated to a high temperature. 
This heat should be continued until the 
juices and albumen are coagulated, which 
will demand from eight to ten minutes — 
sufficient to sear the surface of the roast. 
The heat is then lowered and the meat per- 
mitted to cook for the rest of the time needed 

1<? 



ORDINARY METHODS OF COOKERY 

at a lessened temperature. The following 
table is a guide to the inexperienced cook. 

Beef, well done, per pound 12 to 15 minutes 

Beef, underdone, per pound 8 to 10 

Lamb, well done, per pound 14 to 18 

Lamb, underdone, per pound 9 to 12 

Mutton, well done, per pound 15 to 20 

Mutton, underdone, per pound. . . 10 to 12 

Veal, per pound 18 to 20 

Pork, per pound 20 to 22 

Chicken or turkey, per, pound 14 to 16 

In order to prevent the meat from harden- 
ing too much on the outside it must be 
basted frequently. The liquid with which 
this is done is either weak stock or hot water. 
The former is employed in order to help give 
a flavor to meat which it would otherwise 
lack, but the usual basting fluid consists of 
hot water and butter, mingled in the propor- 
tion of a heaping teaspoonful of butter to 
half a pint of water. This is poured over the 
surface of the meat with a spoon, and after 
the meat has cooked a little the fluid in the 
pan will be increased by the flow of juices 
from the roast. This gravy is taken up with 
the basting-spoon and turned back upon the 
meat. 

The value of basting is not only that it 

17 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

keeps the meat from hardening, but also 
improves its flavor. 

Reference has been made to the covered 
roaster. The merits of this are that it may 
be heated before the meat goes into it, and 
that the bottom and cover then both retain 
their high temperature to a degree impos- 
sible with an open pan, or even when a com- 
mon dripping-pan is turned over that con- 
taining the meat. The steam which gathers 
upon the inside of the cover assists in keep- 
ing the meat soft while roasting and thus aids 
in the work of basting. 

When the meat is done it should be trans- 
ferred to a hot dish while the gravy is 
made. The fat which has cooked from the 
meat should be removed from this. A little 
of it can be poured off the top of the gravy, 
but the best method is to turn the gravy into 
a bowl and set this for a few minutes in an 
outer vessel of cold water, in a draught of 
cool air. The fat will rise to the top and may 
be skimmed off. The gravy left can be 
poured back into the pan, into which has 
first been put a tablespoonful of flour that 
is stirred around to take up the valuable 
glaze that has adhered to the bottom and 
sides of the roaster. Browned flour should 
be used. 

18 



ORDINARY METHODS OF COOKERY 

To a tablespoonful of the flour a cupful 
of the fluid should be used, and when there 
is not enough gravy it can be increased to 
the required quantity by the addition of 
boiling water. The pan is set on top of the 
stove, the gravy stirred until thick and 
smooth, and seasoned by the addition of 
salt and pepper, as needed — Worcestershire 
sauce, kitchen bouquet, or catsup. 

The caution may be given here never to 
sprinkle salt on uncooked meat when put- 
ting it into the oven. It toughens the fiber 
and is likely to impair the flavor. 

Directions have just referred to browned 
flour. To prepare this several tablespoonfuls 
of ordinary wheat flour should be spread out 
in a baking-tin or tin pie-plate and set on 
top of the stove or in the oven until lightly 
browned. The flour must be watched that 
it does not scorch, and stirred constantly. 
It can be kept in a closed jar or tin for use 
when needed. If gravy thickened with this 
is not a good brown in tint, kitchen bouquet 
can be used to season and darken it, or the 
home-made caramel may be employed. 

This is made by putting six tablespoon- 
fuls of granulated sugar in a small saucepan 
with three tablespoonfuls of water, bringing 
to a boil, and cooking until the mixture 

19 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

changes from a light yellow to almost black 
and is about the consistency of thick mo- 
lasses. Three-quarters of a cupful of boiling 
water must then be added, cautiously, to 
avoid a burn from the sputtering which at- 
tends the mixing, and this stirred and boiled 
for five minutes more. The result will be a 
syrupy fluid which can be bottled and used 
as needed. A very few drops will darken a 
cupful of gravy sufficiently without sweeten- 
ing the taste. 

For broiling meat a strong, clear heat is 
demanded, and this may come eiljier from a 
bed of coals or from a gas-flame. Unless 
steak or chops should be very dry it is un- 
necessary to grease the gridiron, but if they 
are lacking in fat, or when chicken or fish or 
oysters are to be broiled, the gridiron should 
be rubbed lightly with fat to prevent stick- 
ing. The strong heat applied to the meat 
coagulates the albumen and retains the 
juices. The meat must be turned frequently 
that it may cook through without scorching 
or hardening on the outside. 

Two kinds of frying exist — in shallow and 

in deep fat. By the first method are cooked 

such articles as oysters, clams, eggs, Hamburg 

steaks, potato-cakes, hashed and fried boiled 

potatoes, and certain other foods. 

20 



ORDINARY METHODS OF COOKERY 

For the second, or deep-fat frying, not 
less than a pound and a half of lard or other 
frying medium must be heated in a deep 
frying-pan or shallow saucepan, made hot 
very slowly and brought to the degree of 
heat where a bit of bread dropped into it 
will brown in less than sixty seconds. In 
fat thus heated are cooked croquettes, fish- 
balls, fritters, doughnuts, and French-fried 
potatoes, as well as breaded chops and cut- 
lets. 

When frying in shallow fat is to be done, 
only a little fat — butter, suet, chicken fat, 
or dripping— is heated in a pan and the foods 
to be fried are laid in this and browned 
quickly. Never should they be put in while 
the fat is still cool or insufficiently hot and 
permitted to soak up grease. As soon as they 
are done they should be taken from the pan 
and laid on a hot dish. 

When croquettes, potatoes, etc., are put 

into deep fat they lower the heat of this so 

much that they do not brown rapidly enough. 

It is better to fry a few at a time, taking them 

out as soon as done, with a skimmer or split 

spoon, and laying them on soft paper in a 

hot colander. If the fat is so hot that it 

blackens the articles put into it, the saucepan 

or skillet must be moved to a cooler part of 
3 21 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

the stove for a few minutes, until the heat 
is reduced a little. 

Such foods as chops, cutlets, etc., are 
breaded before frying. The crumbs f or this 
purpose are made from the odd slices, the 
ends of loaves, and the like, which are left 
over, and should be put in a pan in a cool 
oven long enough to dry to crispness without 
becoming too brown. They may then be 
crushed with a rolling-pin and put into a 
glass jar to keep until needed. For croquettes, 
oysters, and some other foods cracker-crumbs 
are better than those from bread. 

When a chop or other article is to be 
breaded a yolk of an egg is beaten with 
two tablespoonfuls of cold water and put 
into a saucer. The chop is first dipped into 
the crumbs, which should have had a little 
salt and pepper mixed with them on a flat 
dish, and it is then dipped into the water 
and egg long enough to moisten it lightly, 
rolled again in the crumbs, and put on a 
plate. After this the chops or other articles 
breaded should be left in a cool place for an 
hour or more before frying. 

Some kinds of food, such as sweetbreads, 

brains, and others, are to be parboiled before 

final cooking. To parboil small articles they 

must be laid for ten or fifteen minutes in 

22 



ORDINARY METHODS OF COOKERY 

water which has just boiled, keeping the ves- 
sel in a warm place, where the water will 
neither chill nor return to the boil. Potatoes 
and other vegetables are parboiled in this 
manner, while a ham, tongue, or other large 
piece of food to be parboiled must be laid 
in water which is actually boiling for five 
minutes and after the boil is checked left 
there fifteen minutes more. 

To blanch articles which have been par- 
boiled they are drained from the hot water, 
thrown at once into iced or very cold water, 
and left there until firm and thoroughly 
chilled. This must be done with brains, 
sweetbreads, etc. 



Ill 

FOOD AND WORK 

AN acquaintance with the outlines of a 
** balanced ration, as it is called by students 
of dietetics, is essential to the woman who 
wishes to feed her family well, nourish them 
properly, and spare them present or future 
discomfort of the digestive organs. 

Not all the members of the household can 
be supported on the same dietary. The food 
which will build up the growing child may 
not be sufficient to keep up the strength of 
the working-man; that which is satisfactory 
to those who lead a sedentary life will not 
serve for those engaged in vigorous outdoor 
occupations. 

The breadwinner of the family who is in 
a line of work which demands more or less 
muscular exertion can dispose of a hearty 
breakfast comprising cereal and milk or 
cream, eggs, bacon or ham or sausage, or 

24 



FOOD AND WORK 

similar meat dish, accompanied by griddle- 
cakes or corn-bread or biscuit and coffee. 
If he dines in the middle of the day he will 
be ready for soup, meat, and a couple of 
vegetables, with a sweet of some sort to end 
the meal. Even if he lunches at noon and 
postpones his dinner until night he will like 
for luncheon meat and potatoes and plenty 
of bread and butter, with perhaps a cup of 
tea and a light sweet in conclusion. 

The man who lunches at midday and dines 
in the evening will wish the sort of dinner 
I have just outlined as suitable for the noon 
dinner, while if he dines then and sups late 
he will want " something hearty " at the 
night meal — usually meat of some sort. The 
woman who can persuade her household to 
substitute fish or eggs or some preparation 
of cheese for meat at least once a day is bene- 
fiting their digestions and her housekeeping 
fund at the same time. 

The man who does chiefly brainwork and 

has little exercise in the day does not crave 

so substantial a breakfast as that provided 

for the physical laborer. Fruit, a cereal, a 

piece of bacon or an egg, two or three slices 

of toast, and a cup of coffee will probably 

satisfy him, and the woman who stays at 

home most of the day will care for little 

26 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

more. The other meals will resemble in the 
main those served for the person of active 
habits, but less will be eaten by those who 
lead a sedentary life. 

The dietary of children must differ deci- 
dedly from that of adults. Their breakfast 
may include fruit, cereal and milk or cream, 
and a soft-boiled or poached egg, or bacon, 
but they should never have coffee or tea, 
and hot breads and griddle-cakes should be 
a rare treat — and they are better oflf without 
them altogether. This prohibition applies 
to the average child from two to fourteen 
years of age. 

The children's heaviest meal should come 
in the middle of the day, with plain soups, 
meats and vegetables, and a simple dessert; 
and the evening repast should be very light 
and easily digested. Pastry, fried foods of 
all kinds, including doughnuts and crullers, 
should be withheld from them. 

The value of soups in the family bills of 
fare can hardly be overestimated. They 
aid the digestion by preparation of the 
stomach for solid food; they nourish the 
eater; they are readily digested, and are a 
genuine economy, not only in taking the edge 
off the keen appetite, but also in using satis- 
factorily remnants of food, the bones and 

26 



FOOD AND WORK 

trimmings of meat, both cooked and un- 
cooked. 

The choice of food for a family must be 
regulated to a great extent by the season 
of the year. In winter the system demands 
heat-making foods, and fats, meats, starches, 
and sweets can be eaten and digested then as 
they cannot be in the heated term. 

On the other hand, there is in summer a 
craving for fruits, salads, green vegetables, 
and the like. 

Reference has been made to the kinds of 
food which go together. We put butter on 
bread or potatoes or rice because we like the 
taste, without thinking that when a starchy 
food is served fat should accompany it in 
qrder to balance the supply demanded by 
the needs of the body. Macaroni, rich in 
gluten, as well as with a share of starch, 
demands the highly concentrated nutriment 
of cheese and butter or gravy; and cheese 
requires to have bread, crackers, or other 
starchy food eaten with it. 

These are merely intimations of the knowl- 
edge to be gained by the housekeeper who 
makes a familiarity with the elements of 
the chemistry of cookery part of her profes- 
sional education. As she goes on she will 

learn that when she gives her family a cheese 

27 



A-B-C OP COOKING 

pudding or fondu containing cheese, eggs, 
milk, and bread she has provided them with 
as satisfying and nutritious a luncheon or 
supper dish as she could prepare; that when 
she serves potatoes au gratin — creamed or 
stewed with milk and then baked with a top 
dressing of grated and melted cheese — she 
is offering them the equivalent of a meat 
dish in strength-producing qualities; that 
eggs, with the albumen stored in their whites 
and yolks and the fat contained in the latter, 
are, when eaten with bread and butter or 
with potatoes or other starchy edible, much 
more nourishing than a platter of veal or 
pork would be, as well as more wholesome. 

The well-balanced home menu is about as 
important as the well-balanced army ration. 

When a heavy soup is served with a thick- 
ening of flour and butter and with perhaps 
rice, barley, or sago, or when it is a thick 
vegetable pur6e that is almost a meal in it- 
self, an especially substantial meat dish to 
follow is not so desirable as a lighter item, 
accompanied with vegetables. Likewise, if 
the dinner is solid in character, with soup, 
. meat, and vegetables, a simple dessert is in 
order, and the reverse holds good. A thin 
soup should connbte a savory dish of meat 
and perhaps a rather heavy dessert. Pies, 

28 



FOOD AND WORK 

boiled or baked puddings, and the like, are 
in order at the close of such a repast, as 
light trifles and creams or fruit is the suit- 
able close to a solid dinner. 

The woman who wishes to master all the 
details of cookery should lay down from the 
first a few strict rules for the conduct of her 
kitchen. One of these is not to attempt too 
much at once. It is better to know a few 
dishes so that she can do them as well as 
they can possibly be done, than it is to have 
a smattering of half a dozen kinds of cookery 
and to be expert in none. Each step as it is 
taken should be thoroughly understood. 

Another principle for her guidance is sys- 
tem. When she begins to make a dish of any 
sort she should have assembled before her 
each item she will require before she begins 
to work. 

Accuracy is a further indispensable item. 
There must be no " guessing at" quantities 
if the cooking is to be an unvaried success. 
The guesser has occasional good results, but 
it is only the conscientious worker with 
weights and measures who can always be 
sure of uniform excellence. In cookery there 
are practically no negligible trifles. 

Consider for a moment two of the most 
common culinary operations — making tea 

29 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

and coffee. "Any one can make them," is 
often the scornful verdict, and for that rea- 
son they are rarely found at perfection. 

The method of making tea is absolutely 
simple, but the routine laid down must be 
obeyed to secure the best product. The 
kettle must be filled with water, this freshly 
boiled, and actually boiling when poured on 
the tea. The tea-pot must be clean, and be- 
fore the tea is put in the pot should be scalded 
out. Then the tea is measured in — the old 
rule is a teaspoonful for each person and one 
for the pot — a cupful of boiling water poured 
upon the leaves and the pot set to one side 
of the stove, where it will keep hot without 
boiling, or covered by a cozy — and left thus 
for about three minutes. The tea-pot is then 
filled up from the kettle and in two minutes 
more the tea can be poured. Every moment 
after this that it stands on the leaves it be- 
comes stronger and the steeping draws out 
more of the tannic acid. On this last ac- 
count it is well to use the tea-pot with a small 
reservoir for the leaves, so that they will 
not lie in the water and soak, or to employ 
the tea-ball, or tea-pot supplied with a swing- 
ing tea-ball which can be drawn up when 
the proper strength has been attained. 

Coffee is a little more complex, perhaps, 

3Q 



FOOD AND WORK 

but even this is simple enough to justify one 
in hoping for a good product oftener than it 
is gained. The varieties of coffee-pots, big- 
gins, percolators, and the like, is legion, but 
one general rule applies to making coffee, 
whether by boiling, dripping, or percolating. 
The coffee should be measured carefully into 
a clean and scalded pot; and the water 
poured upon it, whether this be hot, cold, or 
tepid, must also be measured and the right 
proportion allowed to the quantity of coffee 
used. It makes no difference if the product 
is to be weak or strong. The proportions are 
the same and these should be unvarying. 



IV 

SOUPS, BROTHS, FISH 

GOOD soup does not have the high stand 
it should hold in the household of the 
person of small means. The woman who is 
on the lookout for its merits will find they 
increase as her knowledge of soups and soup- 
making widens. 

The most fashionable soup is also one of 
the poorest in nutritive qualities. This is 
clear soup, consomm6, or bouillon, as it is 
variously called. It possesses some stimu- 
lating qualities which make it valuable, but 
so far as nourishment is concerned it is of 
little good unless thickened or enriched by 
the addition of macaroni, vermicelli, or other 
Italian paste in some form, sago, barley, or 
rice. It is also expensive. Yet the house- 
keeper should learn to make this soup, which 
must have fresh meat for a foundation. In 
soups, as in every other kind of cookery, 

32 



SOUPS, BROTHS, FISH 

the hit-or-miss method of preparation does 
not result in success. Two pounds of lean 
beef and one of lean veal should be cut into 
cubes as for a stew and put into a soup-pot 
with four quarts of cold water, a clove, and 
a bay leaf, and stood to one side for an hour. 
> The pot must then be put on the stove or 
over a low flame of the gas and brought to 
a simmer. Scum will begin to rise to the 
surface when this stage is reached and a 
little cold water — about a quarter of a cup- 
ful — should be thrown into the pot. The 
scum that has risen should be removed. 

The processes of permitting the pot to 
approach a boil, adding the cold water, and 
removing the scum should be repeated three 
times and then the pot should be allowed to 
come to a simmer, such as has already been 
described, and left at this for three hours. 
Never should a hard boil be attained. When 
the three hours are up vegetables may be 
added to the soup — a quarter of a pound of 
peeled and diced turnip, the same of carrot, 
and also of onion. Two hours' more sim- 
mering follows and after this the pot may be 
taken from the fire and soup and vegetables 
turned into an earthen bowl, this covered 
and set away overnight or for several hours. 

Two teaspoonfuls of salt should be added to 

33 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

the stock while it is warm. After it is en- 
tirely cold the fat will be found in a cake on 
the top. This fat is excellent dripping. When 
it is removed the stock may be poured from 
the meat and bones and strained. Probably 
it will be jellied. 

Such soup should be very clear and light- 
colored and may be deepened in tint, if this 
is desired, by the judicious use of a few drops 
of such caramel as that for which instruc- 
tions have already been given. Soaked and 
boiled barley, or cooked rice, or soaked and 
cooked tapioca may be put into the stock 
before it goes to the table. 

The meat and vegetables which have been 
left should not be thrown away. They have 
not yielded up all their nutritive value, al- 
though much of their flavor is gone. This 
should be supplied by a gravy made from 
part of the stock in which they were cooked, 
with the addition of a very little beef extract, 
and wise seasoning with kitchen bouquet, 
Worcestershire sauce, or catsup of some kind. 
Such meat and vegetables will compose a 
savory stew if combined with parboiled po- 
tatoes, or cooked macaroni or stewed toma- 
toes. 

Some persons prefer a soup with meat in 
it, and such soups as those prepared from the 

34 



SOUPS, BROTHS, FISH 

carcasses of poultry — turkey-rack and chick- 
en-rack soup — would lack their full excellence 
did they not have a little meat in them. The 
meat should not consist of rags and scraps, 
but should have a semblance of uniformity. 

The really valuable soup to the housekeeper 
is a thick broth, either with or without meat 
foundation. When such soups as these are 
made there is no call for fresh meat. The 
trimmings from the roast or other cut, the 
bones taken from the rib-roast before it was 
rolled, the cracked knuckle or leg of cooked 
meat of any sort, the carcass of the fowl, the 
remnants of gravy and soup, the left-overs 
of vegetables, the water in which these were 
cooked, boiled down to a quarter of its orig- 
inal quantity, have all their place in the stock- 
pot. 

A word about this. An earthern crock 
will answer — one with a cover — and into it 
will go such materials as I have named, as 
well as the remainder of soup from the tureen. 
Every day its contents should be put over 
the fire in a soup-kettle and boiled down, 
and they will serve as the basis for soups of 
many kinds which do not require a clear 
stock. Minced vegetables may go into this 
well-seasoned soup; soaked and cooked split 
peas or beans added to it make a delicious 

35 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

broth; stewed tomatoes may be combined 
with it ; mashed potatoes added to it, or any- 
other left-over vegetables which one cares 
for in a soup. 

Many are the other soups which have not 
even as much meat foundation as this. 
Cream vegetable soups are made by cook- 
ing such a vegetable as potatoes, cabbage, 
turnips, carrots, beets, peas, beans, cauli- 
flower, squash, tomatoes, or almost any 
other to a degree of softness where they can 
be put through a colander or vegetable- 
press ; two cups of these, after this treat- 
ment, are beaten, a little at a time, into a 
quart of milk in which an onion has simmered 
for a few minutes, the whole cooked together 
for five minutes and thickened with a table- 
spoonful of flour rubbed smooth with one 
of butter or of good beef or poultry dripping. 
When it has cooked a few minutes, with 
constant stirring, the soup should be the 
consistency of double cream and may be 
seasoned with salt and pepper and served 
with or without dice of fried or toasted 
bread. 

Only by experiment can the housekeeper 
learn just what vegetables to combine. When 
she makes a cream soup or pur6e of potatoes 
or tomatoes or beans, etc., she will need the 

36 



SOUPS, BROTHS, PISH 

onion flavoring, but this will not be essential 
in a soup of spinach, of onions, or of carrots. 
She will also find that left-overs of cabbage 
and cauliflower and Brussels sprouts can be 
used in the same soup, and that either celery 
or onion remnants will combine happily with 
potato or tomato. 

Always, whether with meat or vegetables, 
there should be rigorous saving of anything 
that can be used for soup. No "dab" of 
vegetables is too small to put aside; the 
scrapings from the bottom of the dish or 
platter are worth keeping for the stock-pot. 
The feet of the chickens should be scalded, 
skinned, and used for stock; the liquor in 
which soaked corned beef has been boiled is 
one of the best beginnings for bean or pea 
or lentil soup; every trimming of bone or 
gristle the butcher cuts from your order 
should be sent home to serve for stock or 
gravy. There are no details too small to 
consider in home economies. The water in 
which rice, macaroni, and other vegetables 
have been boiled is usually rich in nutriment, 
although it is carelessly thrown out by the 
cook who is ignorant of true economy. 

The housekeeper who provides fish for her 

family should buy that which is in season, 

not varieties that have been brought from 
4 37 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

a distance and are not only less likely to be 
fresh than that which comes from close at 
hand, but are also more expensive. Fish 
is usually cheaper than meat, and, although 
not so high in nutritive value as some meats, 
makes a variety in the bill of fare and, when 
properly cooked, tempts the appetite. 

Certain points should be recollected in 
cooking fish. One is that it should always be 
well done, no matter by what method it is 
prepared for the table. A sharp knife in- 
serted in the thick part of a baked or boiled 
fish, near the bone, will show if there is a 
redness there denoting the need of longer 
cooking. Fish that is insufficiently cooked 
is not only unpleasant to most tastes, but 
is not especially wholesome. It is a matter 
of course that fish must be absolutely fresh 
to be used at all. 

When cleaning fish it must be held with 
the tail grasped in the left hand while the 
scales are quickly scraped from the tail toward 
the head with a dull knife — a sharp knife 
cuts the fish without taking the scales. The 
fish with the hand that holds it and the knife 
used must be dipped frequently into a pan 
of cold water to remove the scales that cling 
to these. An apron must be worn and the 
hair covered as a protection against the 

38 



SOUPS, BROTHS, FISH 

flying scales. Even when the fish have been 
cleaned at the market they must be thorough- 
ly washed after they reach the house and 
before cooking. Cold water must be used 
in this cleansing and the fish well scrubbed 
outside and inside until the water comes from 
it clear. It should then be wrapped in a 
cloth and laid on the ice away from butter, 
milk, or other food the taste of which might 
be affected by its vicinity. Similar clean- 
liness must be observed with regard to all 
utensils employed in cleaning and cooking 
the fish. 

With the exceptions of such fish as salmon, 
mackerel, and a few others rich in oil, fish 
is usually rather lacking in flavor and often 
inclined to be dry, and these defects must 
be met by abundant seasoning and in some 
cases by the use of bacon or pork, when but- 
ter is not sufficient to meet the want. 

Small fish may be dipped in flour and fried 
or be rolled in egg and bread-crumbs, as 
was directed for chops. It is well to let them 
stand in a cool place for a while after this 
process is accomplished, that the coating may 
harden on the surface. Probably the best 
method to cook small fish is by frying, and 
this may either be the deep-fat frying al- 
ready described or the frying in shallow fat, 

39 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

or saut&ng. Broiling is also an excellent 
mode, but this is not so advantageous for 
really small fish. They should not be cooked 
hard and ultra-crisp, as this destroys the 
flavor. For either process the fat should be 
really hot when the fish goes in, and the 
cooking should be done quickly. 

When fish are to be broiled the gridiron 
on which they are placed must be well 
greased in advance, to prevent sticking, 
and the fish turned often and watched closely. 
Boiled fish is improved if a tablespoonful of 
vinegar is added to the water in which it 
is cooked. Salt fish should always" have a 
preliminary soaking before they are cooked. 
The accompaniment of lemon-juice is ac- 
ceptable with almost any fish. 

Boiled cod should be cooked about ten to 
twelve minutes a pound, halibut fifteen 
minutes a pound, and salmon eighteen to 
twenty minutes a pound. The thicker the 
piece, the longer it will demand to cook 
through. If the fish is left in the water too 
long it may become sodden and insipid. 

A word is not amiss relative to the cookery 
of oysters. The great danger to avoid is 
that of getting them overdone. The oyster 
reaches in cooking the point where the gill 
or ruffle begins to crimp and the soft part to 

40 



SOUPS, BROTHS, FISH 

become plump in abqut three minutes after 
it has come to a boil, and every moment it 
is left over the fire after that impairs the 
flavor and lessens the digestibility of the 
bivalve. 



CHOICE AND COOKERY OF MEATS 
AND POULTRY 

OF all meats, beef is said to be that which 
can be eaten for the longest consecutive 
period without either the palate or the di- 
gestion growing weary of it. Also, its food 
value is large. 

A wide choice is possible in the purchase of 
cuts of beef and in methods of cooking it. 
Whatever the piece selected, the general 
characteristics must be the same — the fat 
must be firm and of a yellowish white; the 
lean close in grain and clear red in color. 

Beef for roasting comes from the loin, the 
first ribs of the fore quarter, and from the 
rump. The sirloin roast is fine, but is large 
for a small family; the porterhouse roast is 
expensive because of the amount of bone it 
contains. A good roast for a household of 
medium size consists of two or three ribs. 



COOKERY OF MEATS AND POULTRY 

and the bones may be taken from this, 
cracked, and put aside for the soup-pot. 
The meat is then bound into a neat piece 
ready for roasting. 

The covered roaster of which mention has 
already been made is excellent for beef, as 
for other meats. The roast is put into the 
heated roaster, as previously directed, cooked 
for ten or twelve minutes with a strong heat, 
until the surface is lightly seared, to prevent 
the rapid escape of the juices; the tempera- 
ture of the oven lessened then and the 
roasting continued for a length of time in 
accordance with the weight of the beef. 
A time-table for roasting meats has been 
given. Beef that has cooked too long, until 
hard and dry, is much more difficult of di- 
gestion than that a little underdone. 

When the meat has been roasting for 
twenty minutes or so, basting should begin. 
A heaping teaspoonful of butter may be 
added to a cupful of boiling water, and this 
poured over the meat, a spoonful at a time, 
taking care to moisten the entire surface. 
This basting should be repeated frequently, 
dipping up the fluid which gathers in the 
bottom of the pan from the roasting meat. 
Instructions have been given in a previous 
*«* fc r *e prep^ion of gravy, *. 



A-R-C OF COOKING 

This is the simplest method of roasting 
beef, and is suitable only for a fine cut. The 
instructions for a pot-roast already supplied 
will be found helpful to the woman who 
wishes to serve a less expensive cut of beef. 
For this purpose the piece of meat, which 
should be compact and trim, ought to weigh 
from five to seven pounds, or a little less. 
Vegetables may be cooked with the pot- 
roast and it may be prepared in the fireless 
cooker, as instructed already, with the ad- 
dition to the beef and the chopped salt pork or 
dripping in which it is browned of half a cup- 
ful each of chopped onion and celery, a cupful 
of carrot cubes, and two cupfuls of the solid 
part of stewed tomato. When these are all 
in, a cupful of boiling water is poured about 
them, the pot is covered tightly, placed on 
the stove, and cooked steadily for three- 
quarters of an hour before it is slipped into 
the fireless cooker, and left there for several 
hours. 

At the end of this time the pot is taken 
from the cooker, brought to the boil again 
upon the stove; a cupful of green peas and 
two cupfuls of parboiled and sliced potatoes 
put with the other ingredients, and after 
twenty minutes' further stewing it goes once 
more into the cooker, to stay there until 

44 



COOKERY OF MEATS AND POULTRY 

dinner-time. The meat is then put on a 
hot platter, the vegetables laid about the 
beef, part of the stock thickened for gravy, 
and the remainder set to one side for soup. 

A Hamburg roast is another economical 
and good dish. For this, meat from the 
round is bought and chopped on the block 
— not put through a grinder. One-third as 
much bread-crumbs as there is meat is mixed 
with the beef, and all well seasoned with a 
little onion-juice, pepper, and salt. The beef 
is formed with the hands into a loaf, and 
cooked like an ordinary roast, first at a hot 
temperature, then at a little lower heat, 
basted, and served as one would a rib-roast. 

A porterhouse or a sirloin steak is consid- 
ered the best; besides this are the short 
steak, otherwise known as the club or Del- 
monico steak, and the hip-bone steak, in 
many respects the most advantageous cut 
of them all. Broiling is, of course, the ac- 
cepted method, and for this a general di- 
rection has already been given. If the meat 
has little fat on it the broiler must be rubbed 
with fat Ox suet, the steak wiped off with a 
damp cloth, although not washed, and laid 
on the broiler, either over or opposite glow- 
ing coals or a gas broiling-flame. Such a 
steak should be nearly two inches thick and 

45 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

must be turned two or three times while 
cooking. The length of time it will require 
depends upon whether it is to be rare, 
medium, or well done. Usually twelve to 
fourteen minutes will suffice. 

Unless the steak is surely tender it should 
be scored with a dull knife before cooking 
and rubbed with the juice of a lemon. If 
this process is followed three or four hours 
before the meat is cooked the effect will be to 
render it tender. If too tough to yield to 
this treatment the steak should be stewed 
or smothered, but never broiled. Better to 
have the beef chopped, shaped into a seemly 
piece, and broiled as the regulation steak 
should be; then dressed, after it goes on the 
hot platter, with butter, pepper and salt. 
Such dressing is bestowed on any broiled 
steak. 

Beef may also be cut into cubes, stewed 
to tenderness, and seasoned to savoriness. 
For this, such sweet herbs as thyme, sweet 
marjoram, and summer savory are needed, 
as well as catsups of different kinds, kitchen 
bouquet, Worcestershire sauce, and the like. 
Long, slow simmering is demanded, and stews 
like these are far more pleasing to both the 
palate and the digestion than tough steaks, 

broiled or fried. The left-overs of beef, no 

46 



COOKERY OF MEATS AND POULTRY 

matter how it has been cooked, may be 
used in many ways, and suggestions for some 
of these will be given later. 

Veal is far less digestible than beef, and 
while the gelatine which cooks out of it in 
boiling and gives veal broth various nutri- 
tious qualities has a certain worth in veal 
prepared in other ways, the general food 
value of it is low. Still, it aids in securing 
variety for the table and, when rightly 
cooked, can usually be handled by the well- 
trained adult digestion. Children should 
not eat it. Veal must always be thoroughly 
cooked. Underdone veal is a menace to 
the best gastric powers. 

The pieces of veal used in roasting are 
the breast, the shoulder, the loin, and the 
fillet. The first-named cut is less expensive 
than the others, but the amount of bone 
and cartilage it contains impairs its value 
for roasting, unless these are removed and 
the piece rolled. When this is done the 
meat should be spread with a well-seasoned 
forcemeat of chopped pork and bread-crumbs, 
before it is rolled with this inside. The 
dryness and lack of flavor in veal render it 
necessary to use fat and an abundance of 
seasoning in cooking it. 

A shoulder of veal must have the bone re- 

47 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

moved and this opening filled with a stuff- 
ing such as has just been described. What- 
ever the cut, thin slices of salt pork should 
be laid over the roast when it is put in the 
oven, and after the first fifteen minutes of 
strong heat the basting should begin and 
continue throughout the cookery. Half an 
hour before it is to be served the pork may 
be taken from the roast and this browned, 
then kept hot while the gravy is skimmed and 
thickened. 

The other pieces of veal for roasting may 
be cooked by virtually the same process. 

Veal cutlets may be broiled or breaded 
and fried in shallow fat. Always the ne- 
cessity of sufficient cookery must be empha- 
sized. Veal chops are rather too dry to 
broil ^rell, but may be stewed or cooked in 
a casserole. The knuckle of veal, valuable 
for soup, also makes a good meat dish if 
cooked slowlv and served with a well-sea- 
soned sauce. Stewing is one of the best 
modes of cooking veal, since by seasoning 
the gravy the meat gains the benefit of 
steeping in this and thus absorbing some of 
the flavor it naturally lacks. Veal is es- 
pecially useful for made dishes, such as 
scallops, croquettes, fritters, and salmis; and 
left-over veal, whether roasted or stewed, may 

.48 



COOKERY OF MEATS AND POULTRY 

be utilized for these purposes in ways which 
will be indicated later on. 

While lamb and mutton are more valu- 
able as foods than veal, they contain less of 
the force- and tissue-making qualities than 
beef. Their fat is less easily digested than 
that of beef and not so nutritious, but really 
good lamb or young mutton, when lean, is 
readily digested and is nourishing. 

The leg of lamb or young mutton, the fore 
quarter, the shoulder, are the best pieces 
for roasting. The method of cooking them 
is practically the same as that for roasting 
beef. The meat is wiped off with a damp 
cloth; a little salt is sprinkled on the skin 
and a little pepper, the meat is laid on the 
rack in the bottom of the covered roaster, 
and the oven kept very hot for ten minutes. 
After that the basting is begun, when the 
temperature of the oven is lowered and the 
meat cooked until done. 

An excellent economy is the purchase of a 
fore quarter of yearling lamb. The shoulder 
of this may be lifted out and used as a roast, 
either boned and rolled or served with the 
bone unbroken; the chops removed to ap- 
pear as a separate dish; the neck cut up 
for stew or soup; the breast rolled for an- 
other small roast, or stewed. The price of 

49 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

the whole fore quarter is less by the pound 
than the chops would be if bought sepa- 
rately; the shoulder is an admirable roast, 
and there is no better part of the animal for 
stewing or soup-making than the neck and 
breast. 

Lamb chops, whether cut from the rib or 
the loin, should have some of the fat trimmed 
from them before they are broiled, as a 
steak would be. Their cookery should be 
quick, and they should not be kept stand- 
ing before they are served. They may also 
be breaded and fried, according to directions 
already given for these processes, and the 
frying should be done in deep fat. 

Several kinds of stews may be prepared 
from the neck and breast of lamb or mutton. 
In any case, the meat should be cooked 
long enough before it is to be used to allow 
it to become throughly chilled, in order that 
the fat may be removed from it. The 
flavor of this is unpleasing to most persons, 
and when chilled the fat clings to the lips 
and tongue. 

When the meat has been cooked tender 
for stews, permitted to become stone-cold, 
and the fat lifted from it in a cake or the 
stray particles removed with a skimmer, 
the seasoning or cooked vegetables may be 

50 



COOKERY OF MEATS AND POULTRY 

added to the gravy and a savory stew pre- 
pared. While the fat of beef or pork is 
good for frying, lamb and mutton fat can- 
not be devoted to this use unless when mixed 
with some other kind of dripping, and even 
then must be made very hot and employed 
for deep-fat rather than shallow-fat frying. 
The unmistakable flavor of mutton fat is 
hard to vanquish. 

Roast mutton and mutton chops are cooked 
like lamb, with a little longer time allowed 
for the process. Like the lamb, they should 
be served very hot. 

A leg of mutton to be boiled must be 
wiped off with a damp cloth, as for roasting, 
and put into a pot of water which is at a 
hard boil. During the first fifteen minutes 
it may be kept at this, then moved to the 
side of the stove or placed over a low gas- 
flame where it will only simmer until it is 
done. Caper sauce or something equally 
piquant in flavor must be served with it. 
Boiled mutton is excellent the second day 
if sliced and warmed over in the caper 
sauce. The stock in which it was cooked 
makes a fine foundation for Scotch broth 
and other soups. 

Lamb's liver may be cooked like calf's 
liver, with bacon; smothered (that is, 

51 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

cooked in a double boiler with salt pork and 
seasoning until tender); larded with salt 
pork and baked; converted into liver hash 
or pat6s. 

Fresh pork is probably the least digestible 
of meats for family use. It contains a high 
percentage of fat, which makes it a good 
heat-producer in cold weather, but it is lack- 
ing in nitrogen. Pork must be very well 
cooked, and pains should be taken to as- 
certain that it comes from a healthy animal. 
The loin, the leg, and the spareribs are 
usually roasted, and sometimes a small fresh 
ham or shoulder is thus cooked. The ten- 
derloins are broiled, fried, or baked, the 
chops fried or broiled. 

Pork must be roasted in a moderate oven 
from the start, instead of making a stronger 
heat at first than later. The outside must 
not be seared to prevent the heat penetrating 
to the center of the roast. The basting 
must be frequent, and the meat must not 
be taken out until thoroughly done. Made 
gravy is not to be served with it, but the 
place of such an accompaniment should be 
taken by apple sauce, catsup, or something 
of the kind. 

Cured pork, when properly done, is more 
digestible than the meat when fresh, and ba- 

52 



COOKERY OF MEATS AND POULTRY 

con is the best variety of this, whether it be 
broiled or fried. It should be cut very thin 
and cooked quickly. As soon as the fat is 
clear the bacon must be taken out, not al- 
lowed to lie and soak up the grease. The 
same rule should obtain with fried salt pork 
or ham. 

When purchasing poultry, that which has 
been dry-picked should be chosen. Cold- 
storage poultry it is safe to avoid. If a 
chicken is young and tender the joints will 
break easily and the breast-bone will yield 
to pressure. In picking a chicken only a 
few feathers should be taken at a time; 
the pin-feathers should be taken out be- 
tween the thumb and the blade of a dull 
knife and the chicken singed by holding it 
over a lighted paper or by pouring alcohol 
over the chicken and setting fire to it. 

To clean the chicken a slit must be cut 

near the vent, the fingers inserted and 

passed around the inside of the chicken 

close to the outer flesh so as to loosen the 

organs. Great care must be taken not to 

break the gall-bladder. When the task is 

rightly done all the organs will come out 

together, and after the skin of the neck has 

been cut so that the crop may be removed 

the fowl can be thoroughly washed out 
5 53 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

with cold water. The gall-bladder must be 
thrown away, the gizzard slit and turned 
inside out; then this and the liver washed. 

A chicken to be broiled may be split 
down the back and the insides removed. 
The chicken to be stewed or fricasseed is 
divided into eleven pieces — two pieces from 
each leg; the two side-bones; two pieces of 
the breast ; the wings and the back. 

To stuff a chicken a dressing is made of 
seasoned bread-crumbs moistened with but- 
ter or other fat to get the best result, nev- 
er with water or milk. The inside of the 
chicken must be well dried and enough 
stuffing put into the body and breast to 
fill them without crowding. The bread usu- 
ally swells a little in cooking. The open- 
ings at the neck and vent may be sewed 
up or skewered. The chicken is trussed, 
with the wings and legs tied to the body 
with soft string, and put into the oven. 
This should be at a good heat and kept thus 
for fifteen minutes; then lowered a little. 
The chicken should be basted every half- 
hour. 

Turkeys and ducks are roasted in the same 
way. 

Chicken to be stewed or fricasseed should 
cook at a moderate heat until tender; the 

54 



COOKERY OF MEATS AND POULTRY 

gravy may be thickened after the meat has 
been taken from it. When chicken is to be 
broiled it must be watched constantly that 
it does not scorch before it is cooked through, 
for it is very important that the meat should 
be thoroughly done. Fried chicken is rolled 
in flour and then cooked in shallow fat, 
using butter, bacon dripping, or lard as a 
frying medium. 

The left-overs made from cooked chicken 
are many and delicious. 



VI 

CHEESE, EGGS, VEGETABLES 

METHODS of cooking cheese should be 
studied by the housekeeper who has 
to practise economy. Cheese possesses twice 
as much protein as an equal bulk of meat; 
competent judges put the food value of one 
pound of cheese as equal to that of two pounds 
of meat. 

Raw cheese often proves a heavy tax for a 
delicate digestion,, and, when cooked, starchy 
matter, such as bread-crumbs, rice, macaroni, 
and the like, should be combined with the 
cheese. While especially valuable to those 
who live active lives and work hard in the 
open air, it may also be eaten by persons of 
sedentary habits if they partake of it at the 
right time. This is not late at night or in 
combination with other foods likely to tax 
the digestive powers. 

Cheese is not cheap, but it costs less than 

56 



CHEESE, EGGS, VEGETABLES 

meat, in proportion, and makes a welcome 
change on the bill of fare. It should not be 
cooked long enough to become tough and 
horny, and, when properly prepared, is very 
tempting to the appetite. 

For the family who wish a substantial 
luncheon or a hearty supper a baked cheese 
pudding or fondu is excellent to the taste 
and not hard upon the gastric organs. The 
proportions for this dish are a cupful each 
of cheese and of bread-crumbs — the cheese 
grated. The bread-crumbs are soaked for a 
quarter of an hour in two cupfuls of heated 
milk; a tablespoonful of butter is stirred 
into this, a teaspoonful of salt, and two eggs, 
beaten light; last of all the cheese goes in. 
The compound is then turned into a buttered 
pudding-dish, covered and baked for fifteen 
minutes, uncovered, browned, and served 
at once in the dish in which it was cooked. 
For the sake of aiding the digestion of the 
pudding a pinch of red pepper may be added 
to it in mixing, or red pepper may be passed 
with the dish. 

Cheaper and easier than this, rich in nutri- 
ment, and good to the taste, is baked bread 
and cheese. To make this the housekeeper 
slices bread half an inch thick, arranges the 

slices in a buttered pudding-dish, placing 

57 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

on each layer of the bread one about a 
fourth as thick of cheese, cut into slivers, 
not grated. When the dish is full, a sprink- 
ling of salt having been placed on each 
layer, enough milk is poured in slowly to soak 
the bread and fill the dish full. It is then 
covered, put into the oven, and baked for 
twenty minutes. It may be uncovered and 
browned before sending to table. 

In the space at my command it is not pos- 
sible to give more than a suggestion of the 
dishes which may be made with cheese. It 
may be grated, mixed into a paste with butter 
and milk, then spread upon toast or crack- 
ers, and these set in the oven until the 
cheese melts and the foundation crisps. 
Pastry or biscuit dough may be rolled out 
thin, grated cheese sprinkled upon strips of 
this, and these either folded over like turn- 
overs, or rolled, and baked. Cheese may be 
cut into strips, laid upon buttered bread, 
sprinkled with salt, and made soft and hot 
in the oven. 

Cheese may alsQ be combined with vege- 
tables. Potatoes may be baked, the con- 
tents removed from the skins, worked smooth 
with butter, milk, and grated cheese, then 
replaced in the skins and made hot through. 
The use of cheese with macaroni or spaghetti 

58 



u 



CHEESE, EGGS, VEGETABLES 

is taken as a matter of course, but the prac- 
tice of strewing boiled rice or mashed po- 
tatoes with grated cheese and then setting 
the dish in the oven until the cheese melts is 
less known. Cheese may be put with a 
white sauce made in the proportion of a 
tablespoonful each of butter and flour and 
half a pint of milk. When smooth and 
thick, a tablespoonful of grated cheese is 
stirred in and the mixture may be poured 
over boiled and diced potatoes, over boiled 
rice, baked tomatoes, fried egg-plant, flaked 
fish, poached eggs. The dish with the sauce 
addition must stand in the oven about three 
minutes before sending to table. A little 
experience will lead to further experiments 
on the part of the housekeeper. 

Even when eggs are at the dearest they 
are usually conceded to be less expensive 
than meat of the ordinary type. An egg 
which has the least suspicion of staleness 
about it should never be used. 

The simplest method of cooking an egg 

is boiling, and the usual way of doing this 

is to put the egg in boiling water and cook 

it from two and a half to four minutes. The 

egg should be laid in the saucepan with a 

spoon, never dropped in carelessly. 

As soon as an egg is in the boiling water, 

59 



l 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

the white, or albumen, begins to harden 
and becomes solid while the yolk is still 
soft. The most digestible boiled eggs are 
those which are put into a vessel containing 
water which has ceased boiling and left in 
this for ten minutes. They may be kept 
standing in the water for some time without 
becoming hard. 

Scrambled eggs are stirred together enough 
to blend the whites and the yolks, a table- 
spoonful of milk is allowed for each egg, 
salt is added at discretion, and the whole 
mixture is turned into a frying-pan contain- 
ing a tablespoonful of melted butter and 
" scrambled' ' with a fork until the compound 
is thick and soft. If cooked too long the 
whites and yolks will curdle. 

Scrambled eggs may be prepared in various 
combiilations. Cold boiled ham, cut into 
small pieces, may be cooked crisp in the pan 
and the mixed eggs stirred in with these. 
Other meats or vegetables, if well seasoned, 
may be made hot in fat or butter and the 
eggs mingled with them and cooked until 
thick. Soup may be used with the eggs in- 
stead of the milk; grated cheese may be 
strewn upon the eggs when they are put into 
the pan. Here is another chance for the 
housekeeper to make discoveries, 



CHEESE, EGGS, VEGETABLES 

Poached eggs are cooked in boiling water. 
This is in a frying-pan or saucepan on the 
fire. Each egg is broken into a saucer, tak- 
ing pains not to mix the yolk and white, 
and is then slipped carefully into the boiling 
water. The white of the egg hardens almost 
instantly, and the boiling water may be dipped 
up with a spoon and poured over the top 
of the egg that it may cook evenly. Three 
minutes should suffice for the cookery. The 
egg is then lifted from the water with a 
skimmer, the ragged edges trimmed away, 
and it is laid upon a piece of buttered toast. 
Salt is strewed lightly over it and it must be 
served immediately. 

Poachers come for eggs, but their place 
may be taken by small nappies in which 
each egg is broken, then immersed at once 
in boiling water. The egg will turn out the 
shape of the cup in which it was cooked. 

Fried eggs are broken into a saucer and 
slipped into shallow fat, then cooked until 
the white is hard. They may be served 
alone or with ham or bacon. 

Eggs that have been boiled hard by ten 

minutes' steady cooking in boiling water may 

be cooked in a number of appetizing ways. 

They are good sliced, breaded, and fried; 

chopped and served with a white sauce; 

Gl 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

halved, the yolks made into a paste with but- 
ter and seasoning and replaced in the sock- 
ets, for stuffed eggs; and cooked by many 
different methods which are given in recipe- 
books. While less digestible than scrambled 
or poached eggs, they are extremely savory. 

The choice of vegetables is almost as im- 
portant as their cookery. Roots, like po- 
tatoes, turnips, carrots, beets, etc., should 
be firm, with no signs of withering or decay; 
green vegetables should show by the fresh- 
ness of their tops that they have not been 
gathered long enough to have lost their 
flavor. Vegetables should not be ordered 
by telephone or purchased carelessly from 
street venders, but selected with pains to 
ascertain that a good value is being procured. 

Potatoes usually appear more frequently 
on the table than any other one vegetable, 
and are often poorly cooked, probably be- 
cause of the impression that it needs no 
training to serve so simple an article as a 
potato. 

When potatoes are to be baked they should 
be washed and scoured before going into the 
oven. The little contrivance which can be 
purchased for about ten cents and consists 
of a collection of spikes on which to impale 
the potatoes while baking is worth having. 

62 



CHEESE, EGGS, VEGETABLES 

Failing this, the potatoes may be baked in 
a pan, or on the floor of the oven, turning 
occasionally to make sure of even cookery 
and prevent dryness or sogginess. When 
a pinch proves them soft they may be taken 
out and served on a napkin in a hot dish. 
Medium-sized potatoes will require about 
half an hour to bake. 

Potatoes that are boiled are best cooked 
without peeling. Much of the value of the 
potato goes in paring. If old, potatoes 
should be put on in cold water and boiled 
until easily pierced with a fork. If they are 
to be mashed the skins must be removed 
first, paring as thinly as possible. The 
potatoes may then be cut into quarters, 
and after lying in cold water for fifteen 
minutes are put over the fire in boiling water 
to which has been added a teaspoonful of 
salt, and cooked until tender. The water is 
then drained off, the uncovered pot set to 
one side for the potatoes to dry, and these 
turned into a bowl and beaten with a po- 
tato-masher, or, better still, whipped with 
a fork into a powdery mass. Butter, salt, 
and milk may be beaten in until the mix- 
ture is the right consistency — neither too 
soft nor too stiff and lumpy. 

From these beginnings the cook may go on 

63 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

to stewing potatoes, frying them in deep 
fat, scalloping them, making them into 
potato puffs or souffles or croquettes or a 
variety of other pleasing dishes. Never a 
spoonful of potatoes should be thrown away ; 
there is always use for it somewhere in a 
mince, a sauce, or a soup. 

Rice is of such value as a vegetable that 
it is a pity it is not better known. To cook 
it properly a cupful of it should be washed 
and put over the fire in two quarts of water 
at a hard boil. It should be kept at this for 
fifteen minutes, until the grains of rice are 
soft when pinched between the thumb and 
finger. The water is then turned off, the pot 
set to one side until the rice is dry, and it 
is served, every grain standing separate — a 
very different thing from the mush usually 
presented as boiled rice. 

Winter vegetables of the root varieties de- 
mand long cooking. Beets, parsnips, tur- 
nips, and carrots are washed and put over 
the fire in plenty of boiling water, then 
cooked at a steady simmer for two or three 
hours. Sometimes even longer is required. 
Carrots and turnips are peeled before cook- 
ing; beets and parsnips are boiled in their 
skins and these scraped off after they are 
done* Beets contain starch and sugar, which 



CHEESE, EGGS, VEGETABLES 

makes them fattening, and when young they 
are pronounced nourishing. Neither car- 
rots, turnips, nor parsnips can be considered 
nutritious when they are old, but when young 
they possess this quality, and carrots are 
easily digested. 

Beets are served hot or cold, with butter 
and vinegar; carrots may be mashed, sliced 
with a creamed sauce, and cooked in divers 
other ways; turnips may be stewed with 
cream or mashed; parsnips may be sliced 
with butter or mashed, made into cakes, and 
fried. 

When old vegetables are boiled the ad- 
dition of salt to the water tends to toughen 
them; if salt is put into the water used in 
cooking green vegetables it makes them 
firmer, so that they are less likely to cook to 
pieces, and helps retain the color and the 
flavor. 

Onions are a digestible and nutritious 

vegetable. If boiled uncovered and with a 

little vinegar in a cup near them the odor is 

lessened. When peeling them they should 

be held with the knife under cold water, to 

spare the eyes. Onions are more delicate 

when stewed if they are first parboiled in 

water and the remainder of the cooking done 

in milk. Cabbage should always be cooked 

65 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

uncovered, and the same rule applies to 
Brussels sprouts and to cauliflower. There 
is no reason why the smell of any one of them 
should fill the house. Plenty of water must 
always be used, and it is well to drop a bit 
of charcoal tied in a cloth into the vessel 
while cooking is going on. 

Cabbage must be cut apart, well washed, 
and thoroughly examined for possible slugs 
before cooking. 

Celery may be used as a winter vegetable 
by cooking the outer stalks, which are too 
green to be eaten raw. It also makes an 
excellent foundation for soup. 

Dried vegetables must be soaked overnight. 
Beans, peas, and lentils are all of value as 
rich in nutriment, and they may be cooked 
in a number of appetizing ways. Canned 
vegetables have made it possible to have 
variety throughout the winter, and if opened 
an hour or so before they are to be used, 
turned at once from the can into a bowl, 
cooked lightly and dressed with butter, salt, 
and pepper, they make fair substitutes for 
fresh vegetables and are infinitely superior 
to those which have been kept in storage. 
Corn, tomatoes, peas, string-beans, and a 
variety of other vegetables come in brands 
which insure their excellence. 



VII 

BREAD-MAKING 

THE good home-made loaf has advan- 
tages over bread produced, by bakers. It 
is generally more nutritious, and when much 
of it is consumed, as in a large family, the 
cost is less. In view of the fact that often it 
is impossible to secure bread mixed and baked 
in hygienic surroundings and of first-class 
materials, a knowledge of bread-making is 
of distinct value to the housekeeper. 

The first detail is the choice of flour. That 
made from the spring wheat is considered 
best for bread. Usually it is wise to purchase 
flour by the bag rather than by the barrel, 
unless large quantities of it are likely to be 
required. When kept too long it becomes 
musty, and in hot weather weevils get into 
it. It should be stored in a dry place which 
is not very warm, and the best receptacle is a 
tin bin such as comes for this express purpose. 

67 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

The following directions, if absolutely fol- 
lowed, will insure good bread. For utensils 
a wooden bowl and chopping-knife, a bread- 
board and a mixing-spoon are needed, in ad- 
dition to the usual measuring-cups. A tin 
bread-raiser with a perforated cover- is de- 
sirable, but good bread can be prepared 
without this. 

As a first step a pint of milk is made very- 
hot, but not allowed to boil, two teaspoon- 
fuls of butter are stirred into it and a pint of 
boiling water added. This is set aside until 
it is lukewarm and then there is put with 
it half a yeast cake dissolved smoothly in 
half a cupful of tepid water. If the liquid 
yeast is preferred, four tablespoonfuls of this 
may be substituted. 

Half a teaspoonful of salt and a teaspoon- 
f ul of sugar are now sifted with two quarts of 
white flour, all put into a bowl, and the yeast, 
water, milk, etc., turned into a hole made 
in the center of the flour. The fluid must 
go in slowly and the mixture be stirred all 
the while. When it is too stiff to stir it may 
be turned out on a bread-board and kneaded 
for ten minutes. 

The dough thus made should be as soft 
as it can be worked with the hands, since 
too stiff a dough makes a hard bread. Here 

68 



BREAD-MAKING 

is where judgment must be developed, since 
some flour thickens more than others and 
it may be necessary to rinse out the bowl 
in which the mixing was done with a little 
warm water, scraping off the particles which 
adhere to the sides of the vessel, and adding 
this to the dough to bring it to the right con- 
sistency. 

To knead the bread the knuckles of the 
fist are pushed down into the dough, pulling 
it apart and pushing it together again, work- 
ing it away from the kneader and then draw- 
ing it back, both the knuckles and the ball 
of the hand being used in the process. All 
of the dough must be reached by this treat- 
ment, the center of the ball as well as the 
surface. If this is not done the bread is 
likely to be hard and there will be heavy 
streaks in it, showing where the yeast has 
not been worked in. 

At the end of ten minutes' kneading the 
dough is placed in the raiser, or in a wooden 
bowl, and covered with a light cloth, then 
set in a warm spot. This must not be too 
hot, and must be sheltered from draughts of 
air. If bread becomes chilled it will not rise 
properly; if the heat makes it rise too rapid- 
ly it is likely to be sour. 

If the conditions are favorable the bread 

6 69 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

should have risen sufficiently in six hours. 
At the end of this period it should be of 
twice as great a bulk as it was at first. It 
is now lifted on the bread-board, a sharp 
knife used to cut it into three equal portions, 
and each of these kneaded energetically for 
five minutes, put into a greased bread-tin, 
and set in a sheltered corner again for an 
hour. 

After a little experience the worker will 
find that when the bread has been sufficiently 
worked it will become elastic and rebound 
from the impact of the fist. All the pro- 
cesses will become simpler with the increase 
of practice. 

The oven must be ready for the bread by 
the time the loaves have risen to the right 
point. The fire should be looked to and an 
even heat secured which will not need to be 
quickened during the baking. When baking 
with oil or gas the flame should be lighted in 
season to bring the temperature to the right 
degree. In order to test this the bare arm 
should be thrust into the oven and held there 
while one counts thirty. If the heat can be 
endured for this length of time the oven is 
in a state to cook the bread properly. Should 
the oven be too hot it must cool before the 
bread goes in. 

70 



BREAD-MAKING 

For fifteen minutes the oven door must not 
be opened; then it may be unclosed to ob- 
serve if the bread is rising well and not 
browning too rapidly. The loaf must not 
harden too quickly on top or it will not rise. 
To prevent this risk, a piece of unprinted 
paper may be laid over the loaf. It will re- 
quire from forty to fifty minutes to bake if 
the oven is right and will shrink away a 
little from the sides of the pan when done. 
Also there is usually a slight ticking sound 
when the bread is ready to take out. It 
may be left in the tin for five minutes after 
it comes from the oven; then the loaf is re- 
moved and stood on its edge on the kitchen 
table to cool, leaning against the tins. A 
thin cloth should be laid over the bread to 
exclude dust, and not until cold should the 
loaves go into the bread-box. 

Rather small tins for baking are better 
than those which make big loaves. The 
bread bakes more thoroughly and supplies 
a larger amount of crust. If a corner or edge 
of the loaf is scorched it may be grated off, 
not cut. 

Whole-wheat bread is no more difficult to 
make. For this the first step is to mix a tea- 
spoonful of salt and one of sugar with two 
cupfuls of milk and two of boiling water, and 

71 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

then set them aside until tepid. As the 
whole-wheat flour is heavier than the bolted 
white flour an entire yeast cake must be used, 
dissolved in half a cupful of lukewarm water; 
or half a cupful of liquid yeast. This is put 
with the milk and water and all stirred into 
a quart of whole-wheat flour in the wooden 
bread-bowl. The mixture must be beaten 
up hard from the bottom, for five minutes, 
so as to form a light, foamy batter. When 
this stage is reached flour is added to make a 
dough as soft as can be handled and this 
turned out on the board. 

The process of kneading the dough with 
floured hands is the same as that given for 
white bread and must last for ten minutes. 
The dough will only require three hours in a 
warm place to rise sufficiently, when it must 
be kneaded again for five minutes and made 
into loaves. When these have stood in 
greased pans for an hour, or until light, they 
are ready to bake. The loaves should be 
small. 

Several good bread-mixers have been per- 
fected and they are of undoubted value to 
the housekeeper in lessening her labors, but 
they are not essential and may be dispensed 
with by the woman who must study economy, 

with no thought that she cannot secure a 

72 



BREAD-MAKING 

good product except by their aid. The bread- 
box in which the loaves are stored must be 
scrupulously clean and should be scalded, 
dried, and sunned often. No musty or sour 
bread should be left in it. 

Rolls may be made from the same dough 
as that used for bread. A portion of it 
should be cut off after the first kneading and 
set aside, and into a pint of the dough may 
be worked a tablespoonful of shortening, 
half lard and half butter. The dough may 
then rise in a warm corner for four hours, 
have another kneading, rise for three hours 
more, and be made into rolls. A piece about 
twice the size of a walnut should be cut from 
the dough with a sharp knife, formed into 
a ball between the floured hands, and as 
each is shaped it should be placed in a greased 
tin. 

The rolls are left to rise once more after 
they are made up and should increase to 
twice their size in an hour. Half an hour in 
a steady oven should suffice to bake them. 

A simple and good method for quick bis- 
cuit calls for four cupfuls of flour sifted with 
one salt-spoonful of flour and two teaspoon- 
f uls of baking-powder. Into this are chopped 
with a knife two tablespoonf uls of good short- 
ening—half butter and half lard or other 

73 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

fat is a good blend — and two cupf uls of sweet 
milk are added. Again the dough must be 
as soft as can be handled; if too stiff, a little 
milk or water may be added. The dough is 
turned out on the board, first flouring this, 
and rolled quickly with the rolling-pin, mak- 
ing very light strokes. When half an inch 
thick, rounds may be made with a cutter, 
these laid in a floured pan and baked in a 
quick oven. 

When there is a shortage of milk, equal 
parts of milk and water may be used; or 
if there is sour milk on hand the same pro- 
portions may be employed and, instead of 
the baking-powder, an even teaspoonful of 
baking-soda is dissolved in a tablespoonful 
of boiling water and this put with the sour 
milk. Great care must be taken to have the 
teaspoonful of soda exactly level. Either 
with sweet or with sour milk a better result 
is gained if all the ingredients are cold and 
if the mixing is done in a cool place. 

Biscuit of whole-wheat flour may be pre- 
pared by the same recipe, except that a 
larger proportion of milk will be needed — 
probably three cups — to bring them to the 
correct state of softness. 

Muffins differ from biscuit in consistency 

and mode of mixing. They contain eggs to 

74 



BREAD-MAKING 

raise them, as well as baking-powder, and 
are not a dough, but a soft batter which must 
be stirred, not handled. They often have 
more shortening in them than there is in 
biscuit, and the ingredients must be care- 
fully measured. The eggs should be beaten 
very light. 

One recipe for muffins may serve as a 
sample for the rest. Two eggs are whipped 
light, without separating the yolks and 
whites; a teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoon- 
ful of sugar, and one of melted butter, and 
one cupful of milk are put with the eggs. 
Two cupfuls of flour should be sifted with 
one teaspoonful of baking-powder and beaten 
into the fluid mixture; all whipped hard for 
a couple of minutes and then turned into 
greased muffin-tins. As the muffins rise in 
baking, the tins should not be more than a 
third full. 

As with biscuit, sour milk may be used in- 
stead of sweet, the baking-powder omitted, 
and a scant teaspoonful of baking-soda dis- 
solved in a tablespoonful of hot water put in 
its place. Muffins require from ten to fifteen 
minutes to bake in a steady oven. 

Whole-wheat muffins may be made by the 

same recipe as the above, except that half a 

cupful more of milk will be required, 

75 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

Corn-muffins and corn-bread are usually 
popular. The kind of cornmeal best known 
in the North is the yellow meal, differing 
from that used in the South, which is white, 
finer than the yellow meal, and not so sweet. 
The following muffins are made from the 
yellow meal : 

Two eggs are beaten light, separating 
whites and yolks; two cupfuls of milk are 
put with the yolks, two tablespoonfuls each 
of melted butter and of white sugar, and 
one cupful of white flour and one of corn- 
meal. A teaspoonful of salt and two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder should have been 
sifted with the flour and meal. The frothed 
whites of the eggs are added last of all, and 
the muffins baked in small tins. 

Griddle-cakes, or pancakes, as they are 
sometimes called, have such a sure place on 
most tables that it is not worth while to 
make criticisms on their digestibility. Those 
containing large proportions of butter and 
eggs are more of a tax on the stomach than 
the simpler varieties. Always, when pos- 
sible, they should be baked upon a soap- 
stone griddle, and this should never be 
greased. Cakes thus cooked are far more 
easily digested than those fried in fat. 

When a soapstone griddle is not attain 

76 



BREAD-MAKING 

able and the ordinary iron griddle must 
serve, it must be kept clean, and if necessary 
to use hot water, soap, and sand to free it 
from the accumulations of old grease, this 
should be done. To grease it a piece of fat 
salt pork on the end of a fork should be 
rubbed over it, or a cloth fastened to a fork 
and dipped in fat. As little grease as is 
possible to keep the cakes from sticking 
should be employed. After service the grid- 
dle should always be washed and put away 
clean. Hot water to which ammonia or 
washing-soda has been added will cleanse it 
well. 

Waffles are easily made, and, while a 
waffle-iron is a little more trouble to keep 
clean than a griddle, the result is worth the 
trouble. The work of mixing and baking 
waffles is no more difficult than that of pre- 
paring and cooking griddle-cakes. 

When the waffle-iron is first used there may 
be a little annoyance from the waffles stick- 
ing. In this case the iron should be rubbed 
well with salt and the grease should be lib- 
erally bestowed. A piece of fat pork on a 
fork is the best medium of application, and 
after the iron has been in service for a while 
it should work satisfactorily. 



VIII 

SWEETS OF DIFFERENT KINDS 

SWEETS or desserts of various sorts hold 
a sufficiently important place on the bills 
of fare of even the housekeeper of small 
means to render it essential that she learn to 
make them well. Really cheap they can 
seldom be, but she can study methods by 
which to secure the best results at the least 
outlay. 

Pies suggest themselves first to the student 
of desserts, not because of their superior ex- 
cellence over other sweets, their digestibility, 
or their cheapness, but because they have a 
post of honor on the American menu. 

When making pastry the worker must 
bear in mind a few principles. First, all the 
ingredients and the utensils employed must 
be very cold; secondly, the work must be 
done in a cool place; thirdly, the pastry 

must be handled lightly and swiftly. Neg- 

73 



SWEETS OF DIFFERENT KINDS 

lect of any of these details means heavy, 
soggy pastry, instead of a flaky, crisp product. 

Pastry should be as soft as it can be 
handled; a stiff pastry produces a tough 
crust. When possible it should be made the 
day before it is to be used, or, at least, sev- 
eral hours in advance, and put where it will 
become thoroughly chilled. It is easier to 
handle in those circumstances and is far more 
satisfactory when converted into pies. 

In the average kitchen one does not find 
the marble slab which is an ideal surface 
for making out pastry, but the place of this 
may be taken by a zinc-covered table, and, 
failing this, a smooth bread- or pastry-board. 
Besides this there must be the rolling-pin, a 
sharp knife, and the flour-dredger, and all 
of these must have been left in a cold place 
for some hours before they are to be used. 

When making French or puff paste, butter 
alone is employed in shortening; in the or- 
dinary family pastry a mixture of butter and 
of lard or other good shortening, such as 
crisco or cottolene, will serve. Whatever the 
shortening, it must be of good quality. The 
flour used for pies is known as pastry flour 
and is made from winter wheat, but ordinary 
flour will answer for plain, every-day pies. 

Four cups of flour should be sifted into the 

79 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

chopping-bowl, two . tablespoonf uls of short- 
ening — lard and butter, cottolene or crisco 
and butter — put with it and chopped into 
it with the two-bladed chopping-knife. If 
the shortening is as cold and hard as it should 
be, the mixture with the flour will be like 
coarse sand when the work is done. Into 
this blend a cupful of iced water is stirred 
with the knife, adding cautiously, that the 
pastry may not be made too soft to handle. 
As soon as the ingredients are fairly blended 
the dough is turned out on the floured board 
and rolled out lightly with the rolling-pin 
into a sheet less than half an inch thick. 
On this is put with a knife one tablespoonful 
more of shortening, cut into small pieces and 
dotted closely over the surface of the paste. 
The bits should be about an inch apart, 
and, when all are on, the sheet is rolled up 
with the shortening inside, laid with the 
end toward the worker, and rolled out again 
quickly. A second tablespoonful of short- 
ening is then put on the sheet, flour dredged 
lightly over it, and the paste again shaped 
into a roll. Once more it is flattened into a 
sheet, then made into a roll, and this left on 
the ice to harden, for several hours, as be- 
fore directed. 

A richer paste is mixed by using butter 

80 



SWEETS OP DIFFERENT KINDS 

alone as shortening, following the outline 
just given. 

When the pastry is to be made up into 
pies, the implements and materials should be 
cold, and the work must be done in as cool 
a place as can be managed with comfort. 

The pastry is laid on the lightly floured 
board and cut into as many pieces as there 
are pies to be made from it. Those which 
are not to be utilized at once should be re- 
turned to the cold. The portion allowed 
for each pie must be cut into pieces, one 
rather smaller than the other, the larger to 
be for the upper crust. The paste is then 
rolled out, that for the lower crust about 
an eighth of an inch thick. The pie-dish is 
laid on the paste, upside down, and a round 
to fit cut with a sharp knife dipped in flour. 
As the paste shrinks in baking, the round 
must be larger than the tin, and is laid on 
this carefully, taking pains to put it on 
loosely and not drag or stretch it. The edges 
must not be pressed down, as this makes 
them solid, but the pastry may be pressed 
in a few spots in the bottom of the tin. 

The upper crust when rolled out must be 

a quarter of an inch thick, and, after the 

pie has had the filling put in, the upper crust 

is laid on, with great care not to crush it, 

81 



A-B-C OP COOKING 

It may be pressed down gently well inside 
the edge, so as to make it adhere to the 
lower crust. If the edges of the upper crust 
have to be trimmed off this must be done 
with a very sharp knife. Should a dull 
knife be used it will drag the edges and spoil 
the looks of the pie. 

When baking pies the heat of the oven 
should be such that one can hold the hand 
in it while counting twelve. Or the test may 
be made by laying a sheet of white paper in 
the oven; if it is straw-colored in ten min- 
utes the temperature is right for pies. 

Hot puddings and cold both have their place 
in the dietary. Those served hot are baked, 
boiled, or steamed. In making those of any 
class accuracy of measuring and of method 
must be followed. 

Baked puddings are cooked in dishes or 
tins, and these should be well greased. The 
oven must be properly heated, so that it 
will not scorch its contents or allow them 
to become heavy from waiting too long in a 
low temperature. Pudding containing eggs 
should be protected against slammed oven 
doors or carelessly replaced tops, and must 
not be set down sharply when taken from 
the oven. In mixing, all the materials should 
be gathered before the work is begun. 

82 



SWEETS OF DIFFERENT KINDS 

A word may be said concerning bread 
puddings. If properly made they are no 
great economy. When eggs, milk, and butter 
are put with the bread the dish costs about 
as much as a batter or cottage pudding, and 
the idea that a well-compounded pudding is a 
saving because it uses waste bread is an error. 
If such are served as pleasing variety it is an- 
other matter. At no time should musty or 
rancid bread be used, and it should be prop- 
erly crumbed, not put in in irregular chunks. 

A meringue on even a simple pudding 
gives it a touch of elegance, and when the 
pudding is made with eggs the yolks can 
usually be employed for the main dish and 
the whites reserved for the meringue. 

Dumplings and many other puddings which 
are baked may be boiled instead. If boiled 
in a cloth this should be of strong, unbleached 
muslin which has had all the dressing washed 
from it in hot water, then been rinsed in 
cold water. It is to be wrung out as dry as 
possible, buttered on the inside, and then 
dredged with flour before the pudding is put 
into it. Room must always be allowed for 
the pudding to swell. The cloth may be 
sewed up at the end or securely tied. 

Or the pudding may be put in a small 
bowl, well buttered, and the cloth tied about 

83 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

this. If a mold with a top is used this should 
fit tightly, and the mold should not be made 
too full, but a space left for the swelling of 
the pudding. With a pudding boiled either 
in the cloth or the mold the water in the 
outer vessel must be at a hard boil when the 
pudding goes in, and kept at this until the 
pudding is done. If not, there will be a heavy 
and water-soaked product. As soon as the 
pudding is taken from the pot it must be 
plunged for an instant into cold water. This 
causes the pudding to shrink away from the 
receptacle holding it and the contents are 
then easily turned out on a hot dish. 

A pudding that contains fruit requires 
from an hour and a half to two hours to 
cook, if it is of medium size, and the length 
of time demanded by larger or smaller pud- 
dings will have to be learned by experience. 
The pudding boiled in a cloth should have a 
plate or saucer put under it in the bottom 
of the pot, that it may not stick. 

Puddings that are boiled may, instead, be 
cooked in a steamer, such as can be procured 
from any house-furnishing establishment. 

Cold puddings comprise custards, trifles, 
blanc-manges, jellies, etc. Many of them are 
cheaper than the hot desserts which demand 
both shortening and eggs. 

84 



SWEETS OF DIFFERENT KINDS 

A few words may be said about custards, 
which are the foundation of some of the best 
cold dishes. The proportion of eggs and milk 
is in the ratio of one egg to each cup of milk 
and a tablespoonful of sugar. Custards 
should always be made in a vessel set inside 
another of boiling water. The eggs should 
be beaten light, the sugar added, the hot 
milk poured upon them, and all returned to 
the stove and cooked until the mixture be- 
gins to thicken and the raw-egg color changes 
to a more delicate tint. Ten to fifteen min- 
utes will be required, and the stirring should 
be constant during the process. Both -eggs 
and milk should be absolutely fresh. Cus- 
tards are always served cold. 

When making a floating island the yolks 
alone are cooked with the milk and the whites 
reserved to beat up light and put on top of 
the custard when served. 

Baked custard is made by the same pro- 
portions as the boiled, but when the yolks 
and hot milk are mixed the compound is 
not put over the fire, but turned into a but- 
tered pudding-dish, this set in an outer pan 
of hot water and baked in the oven until 
firm. Too long cooking will cause it to 
curdle or " break." Custards may be baked 

in small cups instead of in a large dish. 

7 85 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

Either with boiled or baked custard flavor- 
ing may be used to suit the taste. This is 
usually vanilla or lemon with the boiled cus- 
tards, and is added after it comes from the 
fire, while spice is sprinkled over the top of 
the baked custard before it goes into the 
oven. 

In making jellies or blanc-manges the pro- 
portions must be carefully observed and the 
fact borne in mind that such sweets do not 
form as readily in damp or warm weather 
as when it is cold and clear. On this account 
less liquid must be used at the former period. 
Blanc-mange differs from jelly in being made 
with milk instead of water, coffee, wine, 
cider, or the like 

All desserts supposed to be cold should be 
thoroughly chilled before serving. 

Good cake cannot be made without good 
materials, and they must be combined in 
the right way. 

The first step is to cream or work the butter 
and sugar together until the mixture is 
smooth and well blended. This may be done 
with a fork or a spoon — the fork is prefer- 
able. Both butter and sugar may be slightly 
warmed, but the former should not be melted 
or the latter hot. When the creaming is 
over the eggs must be beaten. 

86 



SWEETS OF DIFFERENT KINDS 

In breaking the egg the shell should be 
chipped a little to make sure that the con- 
tents are entirely fresh. The shell is then 
broken in two, the white drained off into 
one bowl, and when the white is all gone 
from the shell the yolk is dropped into an- 
other vessel. If even a little of the yolk gets 
in with the whites, these will not froth 
properly. The whites must be beaten first, 
and very stiff; the yolks take their turn 
next and are whipped until smooth and thick. 

The yolks are stirred into the creamed 
butter and sugar, then the milk or other 
liquid used is put in; next comes the flour, 
which should have been measured and sifted 
with the amount of baking-powder demanded. 
The batter should be beaten hard, and, last 
of all, the whipped whites may be added, 
folding them in rather than beating them. 
This is the time for the addition of any fla- 
voring desired. Or, if fruit is employed, it 
may be dredged and put into the batter now. 

The consistency of cake batter must be 
learned by experience. The batter for a 
pound-cake or one of that order must be as 
thick as it can be stirred, while that for a 
sponge-cake should be little thicker than a 
heavy double cream. The cup-cake batter 
lies somewhere between the two; when it 

87 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

contains much butter and sugar it should be 
rather stiff; if a number of eggs are employed 
it may be thinner, since the eggs thicken in 
cooking. The pans for cake should be well 
greased — not with butter. 

In filling cake-tins room must be permitted 
for the cake to rise. The oven should be of 
a heat which will allow one to hold the hand 
in it while counting twelve. If the cake" 
shows signs of browning quickly after going 
into the oven a sheet of unprinted paper 
should be laid over the top. When the cake 
seems to be nearly done it may be tested by 
thrusting a broom-straw into it. Should 
this come out clean the cake is ready to take 
from the oven, but if the straw is sticky the 
cake must bake longer. If the oven is too 
hot it may be cooled a little by setting a pan 
of cold water in it without disturbing the 
cake. 

Cake should be taken' from the pan as 
soon as cool, wrapped in a clean cloth, and 
kept in a tin cake-box or a stone jar. 

Home-made ice-cream is so wholesome 
and so easily made that a word or two of 
suggestion about it is not amiss. It may be 
prepared with the pure cream, scalded be- 
fore freezing, or frozen uncooked, or with a 
custard of milk and eggs, to which cream is 

88 



SWEETS OF DIFFERENT KINDS 

added after the custard is made. Sherbets 
or water ices are composed of fruit juices or 
crushed fruits and water, properly sweetened. 
They are less expensive than the frozen 
dishes containing cream or custard. 

To freeze the cream, after mixing, plenty 
of ice is required, and it must be broken fine. 
To do this an ice-shaver may be used, or the 
ice may be put into a coarse sack and pounded 
with a mallet. The finer the ice, the more 
rapid the process of freezing. Coarse salt 
or rock-salt must be provided. The propor- 
tions of the ice and salt are usually four parts 
of ice to one of salt. 

When the freezer has been adjusted the 
ice and salt are packed around it, putting 
first a three-inch layer of ice, then the salt. 
Each layer must be hammered down with 
the handle of the mallet or some other im- 
plement. When the freezer is packed a cloth 
may be thrown over it and it is left to chill 
for ten or fifteen minutes before the work of 
turning the dasher is begun. 

The turning should continue until the 
cream is frozen hard enough to make it 
difficult to move the dasher. If the ice and 
salt have melted rapidly, it may be necessary 
to renew them before the task is finished. 

When the cream has hardened the top of the 

89 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

freezer is wiped free of ice and salt, the cover 
taken off, the dasher withdrawn, the cream 
smoothed over, the cover replaced, and the 
ice and salt packed in again. Two hours' 
standing will ripen the cream and improve 
the flavor. In hot weather the plug in the 
lower part of the outer freezer must be re- 
moved, the water poured off, and the ice and 
salt layers repeated until the inner freezer is 
covered. 

When the cream is to be served, the freezer 
is lifted out, wiped off most carefully, a hot 
cloth wrapped about it, and the contents 
turned out on the dish. A napkin or paper 
doily should be laid under the cream. Great 
pains must be taken to keep the freezer and 
all its parts throughly clean when not in use. 

The cases of poisoning from eating ice- 
cream which are chronicled now and then in 
the papers are quite as likely to be due to 
bacteria finding lodgment in unclean uten- 
sils employed in making and in keeping cream 
as to a lack of purity of the ingredients. 
Both risks should be guarded against by the 
home ice-cream manufacturer. 



IX 

CANNING, PRESERVING, PICKLING 

CANNED vegetables and fruits must be 
put up in receptacles from which the 
outer air is absolutely excluded. Only by 
this method can the contents be protected 
against the bacteria which cause decay. The 
jars to receive the canned articles, as well as 
the fruits and vegetables themselves, must be 
sterilized by cookery. When this precau- 
tion is neglected, even the closest sealing will 
not preserve against fermentation. 

Under the general head of canning are 
usually included the processes of preserving 
and pickling. But, while ordinary canning 
depends upon sterilization and sealing, pre- 
serves are put up in a strong syrup, which 
is in itself a protection against germs, while 
the vinegar used in pickling serves the same 
purpose. 

Before attempting the work of canning, 

9i 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

not only all the utensils which are to be em- 
ployed, but also the materials must be on 
hand. Most of the former are in the properly 
stocked kitchen; but the preserving-kettle, 
porcelain-lined or of enameled-ware of some 
kind, a large funnel to aid in filling jars, jelly- 
bags or straining-cloths, must also be ready 
in advance. Jars or glasses, with their full 
supply of tops and of good rubbers ; earthern 
crocks, if pickles are to be made in quan- 
tities; bottles, for catsups,, etc. — should be 
provided. 

The inexperienced housekeeper should not 
undertake too big a piece of work of this kind 
at once. Better to can a moderate quantity 
of some one kind of vegetable or fruit, to 
preserve or pickle a little, than to attempt to 
get a great deal off at one time with the risk 
of either wearing herself out or neglecting 
some detail which may mean the loss of the 
whole store. 

When selecting the jars to be used the pint 

size will be found most satisfactory for nearly 

everything, with the possible exception of 

certain vegetables. For jellies, jams, and 

marmalades the half -pint jars or glasses are 

good. Several varieties of the self -sealing 

jars are upon the -market, but perhaps the 

best are those with wide mouths and glass 

92 



CANNING, PRESERVING, PICKLING 

tops, the latter held down by a metal clamp. 
These are easier to close than those which 
must be screwed down, and, when the rub- 
bers are in perfect condition, exclude the air 
entirely. 

The covers of jelly-glasses are not air- 
tight; therefore the contents of these must 
have melted parafl&ne poured over them after 
the conserves cool, before the tops are fas- 
tened down. 

Vegetables do not, as a rule, keep as well 
when canned as do fruits ; the sugar put with 
the latter helps as a preservative. Tomatoes 
are among the simplest vegetables to can 
and keep better than any other. 

Two methods of canning are usually prac- 
tised in the home. By the first and, in some 
respects, the simpler, the vegetables are 
cooked throughout in the preserving-kettle 
and from this poured directly into jars which 
have been rinsed out in scalding water. The 
tops are at once closed, while the contents 
of the jars are boiling hot. 

By the second process the vegetables to 
be canned are put into the jars while cold. 
These are then placed in a rack or on a wood- 
en support in a wash-boiler or other large 
kettle; hot water is poured about them; it 

is brought to a boil and continued at this 

93 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

until the contents of the jars have cooked 
the length of time directed in the recipe 
given for them, when the tops are put on, 
closed, and the jars taken from the fire. 

Both of these methods have advantages, 
and trustworthy cook-books are found which 
recommend one process for certain articles 
and one for others. For example, tomatoes 
can be cooked in a preserving-kettle and 
turned from this into the jars; while string- 
beans, lima beans, and asparagus are often 
ordered cooked in the jars. It may be said, 
by the way, that the superfluous liquid which 
remains after putting up tomatoes may be 
canned and kept for a foundation of soups, 
sauces, etc. 

The vegetables used for conserving in any 
way should always be firm and unspecked. 
Particles of decay or withered portions should 
be cut away carefully, and no stale or over- 
ripe materials should ever be employed. The 
same rule applies to fruit. 

When fruit is to be canned it must be 
peeled quickly with a sharp silver knife, 
since steel is likely to blacken the fruit. As 
each piece is pared it is thrown into cold 
water to prevent discoloration. Two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar are allowed to each quart 
of the fruit, a layer of the latter placed in 

94 



CANNING, PRESERVING, PICKLING 

the bottom of the preserving -kettle, first 
putting an inverted plate in to guard against 
scorch, sugar strewed over the fruit, and 
these alternate layers continued until all the 
material is used or the kettle is filled. A 
half-cupful of water may be added to pre- 
vent scorching. A closely fitting cover is 
then put on the top, the kettle placed where 
it will come to the boil slowly, and cooked 
at this for fifteen minutes thereafter. The 
boil should be gentle; hard cooking will 
break the fruit. When it is done it must be 
taken out with a skimmer, packed in the 
jars, the syrup brought back to a hard boil, 
poured over the fruit in the jars, and these 
sealed immediately. 

These directions apply to large fruits. 
Berries to be canned must have an allow- 
ance of a quarter of a pound of sugar to each 
pound of fruit. The sugar is sprinkled over 
the fruit in a bowl and the two are left to- 
gether for a quarter of an hour before they 
are turned into a . preserving-kettle, brought 
to a boil, and stewed gently until done, al- 
though not broken. The scum which comes 
to the top must be taken off before they are 
put, boiling hot; into the jars and sealed. 
Cherries may be canned in the same way, 

but if these are very sour, or if tart currants 

95 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

or gooseberries are canned, the allowance of 
sugar may be doubled. 

Preserved fruits are much more expensive 
than the canned, both from the added time 
and trouble which must be put into them 
and in the larger quantity of sugar used. 
A pound of this must be employed for every 
pound of fruit. Brandied fruit is even more 
costly in work and in material, but both 
this and the preserved fruit cost less when 
made at home than when purchased from a 
reputable concern. 

It is also true that jams and marmalades 
may usually be put up in one's own kitchen 
more cheaply than they can be bought and 
'are of better grade than any but the high- 
priced brands. For such conserves the fine 
large fruits required for canning, preserving, 
or brandying are not essential, since defective 
portions may be cut away and only those 
which are sound used. The work is simple. 
The berries are picked over, hulled, if nec- 
essary, examined carefully for insects, rinsed 
in a colander by having cold water poured 
over them, weighed, and to each pound of 
fruit three-quarters of a pound of sugar al- 
lowed. 

The berries are turned into the kettle on 

an inverted plate, broken up with a wooden 

90 



CANNING, PRESERVING, PICKLING 

paddle or spoon, brought to a boil, and treated 
with frequent stirring. A surplus of juice 
may be dipped out and set aside for jelly. 
After three-quarters of an hour boiling the 
sugar is put in, cooked for five minutes, the 
scum which rises to the top taken off, and the 
jam is ready to be put into small jars and 
sealed. 

When jelly is to be made the work should, 
if possible, be done on a dry, clear day, when 
there is not much moisture in the atmosphere 
for the sugar to absorb. The fruit should not 
be over-ripe and should have been picked 
over carefully, and if currants or other small 
fruits are used they must be rinsed off. 
Larger fruits, such as apples, etc., are cut 
up, but not peeled. They are then put into 
the preserving-kettle on the inverted plate, 
heated , slowly, stirred often with a wooden 
spoon, which will break the fruit and lift it 
so that the heat can get through the con- 
tents of the vessel evenly. 

When the fruit is cooked to pieces so that 
the juice flows freely, a jelly-press may be 
used to break up and squeeze the fruit, or it 
may be turned into a jelly-bag and left to 
drip. The latter produces a clearer result. 
Doubled cheese-cloth or loosely woven flan- 
nel will serve for the jelly-bags. When all 

97 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

the juice is extracted it may be measured, a 
pound of sugar weighed out for each pint of 
juice, the juice set back over the fire and 
boiled steadily for twenty minutes, with fre- 
quent skimming. The sugar is put in at the 
end of the twenty minutes of boiling, and 
cooked for just one minute after the boil is 
restored. The jelly is then ready to be 
turned into glasses. Longer cooking makes 
it syrupy. 

The glasses should be rolled in boiling 
water, stood on a hot wet cloth, with a spoon 
in the glass, the jelly poured in, and each 
glass set aside as it is filled. Not until it 
is cold can the melted paraffine be poured 
upon the surface of the jelly and the tops put 
on. 

When pickles are under consideration one 
of the most important items is the vinegar. 
All things considered, the best is that from 
cider, since the colorless varieties sold are 
made often with a foundation of acid which 
is bound to be injurious to the stomachs of 
the eaters of the pickle. The difference of 
cost between the cider and the white vinegar 
is not sufficient to make it worth while to 
buy the latter. 

Nearly all vegetables which are made into 
pickles, especially gherkins, cucumbers, on- 

98 



CANNING, PRESERVING, PICKLING 

ions, and a number of others, require a pre- 
liminary soaking in brine. Half a cupful of 
salt is usually allowed to four quarts of the 
pickles; these are placed in a stone crock, 
the salt strewed over them, water poured 
in to cover them, a weighted plate laid on 
top to prevent the pickles floating, and all 
left for several days. The length of time de- 
manded is stated in the recipes for such 
pickles. When they are taken from the brine 
they must be picked over carefully and those 
that are soft or spotted discarded. 

A good spiced vinegar for almost any 
pickle is prepared by adding to four quarts of 
vinegar one cupful of sugar, three dozen 
whole black peppers and the same number 
of cloves; eighteen whole allspice and twelve 
blades of mace. These ingredients are put 
in the preserving-kettle, boiled five minutes, 
and then poured over the pickles which 
have been made ready for the vinegar. 

All pickles should be watched closely dur- 
ing the first month or so after they are put 
up to ascertain if they are keeping well, but 
few of them are fit to eat under two months' 
mellowing, and most of them are better after 
an even longer period. 

Sweet pickles are usually made from 
peaches, pears, plums, and watermelon rind, 

99, 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

and, except when the fruits must be peeled, 
they are less trouble than the tart pickles, 
since they do not have to be laid in brine be- 
fore cooking. Spiced currants, gooseberries, 
cherries, and grapes may be put up a little at 
a time, as one has the fruit and the leisure 
for the task. 

Larger fruits may also be spiced, and spiced 
rhubarb is excellent. 

Catsups and similar relishes may be pre- 
pared at home at a much lower price than 
that for which they can be bought in the 
shops, and are more wholesome, unless brands 
are selected which are entirely trustworthy. 
These are seldom cheap. 

Such catsups should be cooked in an 
enameled-ware kettle or one which is porce- 
lain-lined — not in copper. The effect of the 
vinegar upon the copper during the long slow 
cookery required by these preparations is 
unwholesome, if not actually poisonous. 

Jars and glasses containing canned fruit, 
jellies, jams, preserves, or pickles of any 
kind should always be washed off carefully 
before they are put on the shelves, and wiped 
absolutely dry. From time to time inspec- 
tion must be made of the contents of the pan- 
try to make sure that none of the delicacies 

stored there has fermented or soured. These 

100 



r 



CANNING, PRESERVING, PICKLING 

i processes cause a running-over and leakage 

s > which not only make the shelves sticky, but 

J" also attract ants and other insects. When 

% such fermentation is discovered it may some- 

* times be checked by turning the affected 

e conserves into the kettle and boiling them 

over. They are not generally as perfect in 

1 color and in flavor afterward, but the change 

is so slight that the loss is far less than that 

involved by neglect of watchfulness. 

8 



X 

LEFT-OVERS AND THEIR USES 

ALREADY emphasis has been laid upon 
*V» the fact that nothing in the way of 
remnants of clean food should be wasted 
and that no trifle is too small to save. The 
scrapings of meat- and vegetable-dishes, the 
spoonful or two of gravy or soup, the bit of 
butter or the drainings of the milk- and 
cream-bottles, may seem little in themselves, 
but no matter how minute they are they are 
better saved than thrown out. Vegetables 
and meat or fish can be combined and the 
dish eked out with eggs and softened with 
gravy or stock ; sauces can be made a vehicle 
for producing a savory luncheon or supper 
dish from unattractive, although nutritious, 
odds and ends. 

More than this, certain items that are 
taken for granted as adjuncts to some dishes 
may be reserved to form a separate prepara- 

102 



LEFT-OVERS AND THEIR USES 

tion. The giblets of poultry — when they are 
not kept by the butcher — are usually cooked 
with the fowl or chopped for gravy. The 
economically disposed housekeeper will stew 
them by themselves, chop them, season the 
stock in which they have simmered, and 
offer her family a breakfast attraction in v 
the shape of giblet toast. Sometimes there 
are little pieces of the chicken which can be 
minced and put with the giblets and increase 
the quantity of meat, while the toast on 
which this is served is made from the left- 
over slices sent from the table. 

Or the giblets and chicken, or any other 
meat which will go well with them, may, 
when chopped, be used to stuff green peppers 
or tomatoes. When these are filled with the 
mixture they are set in a pan, a little weak 
stock poured about them, covered and baked 
twenty minutes, uncovered and crisped, and, 
behold, an attractive and unusual dish ! Rice 
or chopped macaroni or peas or string-beans 
may also be mingled with the meat or with 
minced hard-boiled eggs and employed for 
this filling, or heated in a savory sauce of 
some sort. 

One word more relative to green peppers 
as a means of using remnants. The green 
pepper is, fortunately, low-priced and is 

103 



A-B-C OP COOKING 

among the few articles that seem to be growing 
cheaper. Left-over fish, fresh, salt, or smoked, 
no matter in what way it has been cooked, 
may be employed to fill green peppers; rice 
or boiled macaroni, mixed with cheese, will 
serve the same purpose; canned shrimps or 
crab meat is excellent thus cooked; any 
kind of cold meat, if pleasingly seasoned, 
may have crumbs put with it before utilizing 
it as a stuffing for the peppers. 

Sometimes the left-over meat may be 
baked as a pudding or pie, with a crust of 
biscuit dough or of mashed potato, or of 
boiled and browned rice, or of boiled and 
chopped spaghetti. Meat-balls, croquettes, 
fritters, can all be made as well from remnants 
of the roast or boiled as from fresh meat 
bought for the purpose. In making each and 
all of these gravy will prove of service, and 
to secure a good supply of this trimmings of 
meat of any sort must be saved and cooked 
down by a gentle simmer. The seasoning 
put with the gravy has much to do with the 
success of the dish. 

Croquettes will be good or poor according 
as they are well or ill made. If a tasteless 
hash is shaped into balls and laid to soak in 
shallow fat the result will not be alluring. 
But when a sauce is prepared with gravy or 

• 104 



LEFT-OVERS AND THEIR USES 

stock, the minced and well-seasoned meat 
stirred into this and left to cool until it can 
be formed with the hands into croquettes, 
and these placed in the cold for a couple of 
hours or more before they are dropped into 
deep boiling fat and quickly cooked to a 
golden brown, the croquette will not receive 
criticism because of its lack of attractiveness. 

In the sanje manner a meat mixture may 
be made into balls and dipped in batter, 
then cooked in deep fat as fritters, or inclosed 
in squares of pastry or biscuit dough and 
baked like a sort of turnover. 

Remnants of meat, fish, or vegetables make 
delicious souffles for the tables of those living 
in the country who have eggs in abundance. 
Only a cupful of the left-over is required, 
mixed with a cupful of white sauce, seasoned 
to taste; the beaten yolks of two eggs are 
added, and then the whipped whites folded 
in and the mixture put into a buttered pud- 
ding-dish and baked in a steady oven for 
half an hour. 

All remainders do not have to be chopped, 
however. Cold beef may be sliced and heated 
in a sauce prepared by cooking together 
stewed tomatoes and a little minced onion 
until well blended, seasoning to taste with 
pepper and salt. Cold boiled muttou may 

105 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

be made hot in caper sauce such as is served 
with it on the first day of its appearance; 
cold lamb may have currant jelly and butter 
melted together and then be laid in this and 
heated through. 

Cold fish has its uses in salads as well as 
in croquettes, fritters, scallops, souffles, and 
soups; vegetables may be employed in any 
one of these ways, and both cold poultry and 
meat are good in salad. For such a salad 
a French dressing composed of three parts of 
oil to one of vinegar, a heaping salt-spoonful 
of salt and half as much pepper, all well 
stirred together, may be used; or a mayon- 
naise dressing made by blending a cupful of 
salad-oil, a tablespoonful of vinegar, and 
salt and pepper to taste, with the yolk of 
an egg. The oil must be stirred into the yolk 
a drop at a time until the mixture begins to 
thicken, when it may be put in more rapidly. 

For those who do not like oil, or who ob- 
ject to its cost, there are boiled dressings 
which are excellent. 

Green salads are especially desirable in 
hot weather, and there is a great and grow- 
ing variety of these. Lettuce, romaine, es- 
carole, chicory, dandelion, as well as mixed 
salads, including one of the former with sliced 
tomatoes, beets, potatoes, or other cooked 

10Q 



LEFT-OVERS AND THEIR USES 

vegetables, are all palatable. They should 
be served well chilled, and the dressing should 
not be put on until the last moment before 
serving, since the vinegar wilts the greens 
and toughens other ingredients. A salad 
made with cold hard-boiled* eggs is generally 
popular. 

Mention has several times been given of 
the use of sauces in producing palatable 
dishes of remnants. A knowledge of how to 
make a few good sauces leads to a famili- 
arity with the rest. 

What may be called the fundamental 
sauces — according to the French, the "moth- 
er sauces' ' — are*only two, the white and the 
brown. The proportions of both are sub- 
stantially the same, and upon the founda- 
tion of one or the other of them practically 
all sauces are made. 

The proportions are simple and invariable. 
To a tablespoonful each of butter or other 
fat and of flour is allowed a half-pint of fluid. 
When butter sauce or drawn butter is de- 
sired the liquid is hot water; when it is a 
plain white sauce it is milk; when it is brown 
sauce stock is employed; for oyster sauce 
there is a mingling of milk or cream and oys- 
ter liquor. 

The butter and the flour are put together 

107 



A-B-C OP COOKING 

in a small saucepan over the fire and stirred 
until th$y are blended and bubble. Upon 
them is then turned the half-pint of fluid, 
and this is stirred steadily until the mixture 
is smooth .and about the thickness of double 
cream. The required seasoning is added and 
the sauce is ready to use. If it is to be kept 
hot it should be set in an outer vessel of hot 
water, and if it stands for more than a few 
minutes it is likely to thicken. 

The seasoning must be in consonance with 
the taste and the service to which the sauce 
is to be devoted. If veal or chicken is to be 
warmed in it and then served on toast or put 
into nappies or a pudding-dish and browned, 
onion-juice or celery salt may accompany 
pepper and ordinary salt. The same sea- 
soning may be used with fish or with hard- 
boiled eggs. It is also good when eggs are to 
be scrambled in the sauce, or when vege- 
tables are to be heated in it. 

For a brown sauce browned flour must 
be employed, and a few drops of caramel will 
improve the tint of the sauce. In this case 
mushroom or tomato catsup or Worcester- 
shire sauce will answer, or one of those sea- 
sonings already recommended. 

It may be seen that sauces are not neces- 
sarily expensive. For a butter sauce the 

108 



LEFT-OVERS AND THEIR USES 

only cost is that of the flour and butter; for 
a tomato sauce the fluid may be a cupful of 
liquor drained from the canned or the stewed 
tomatoes which are to be served in another 
dish. An oyster sauce utilizes the oyster 
liquor; for a brown sauce stock from bones 
and trimmings can be used, or soup left over 
from the day before. Yet by the aid of such 
sauces palatable combinations of food can 
be served to the household, who need never 
suspect that these are economies. 

In order to save time when a hastily made 
sauce is desired, thickening or "roux" can 
be mixed and kept in the pantry. Half a 
cupful each of butter and of flour are put in 
a saucepan, cooked until they bubble, and 
kept at this for three minutes, taking pains 
that they do not brown in the least. The 
mixture is then taken from the fire and turned 
into a wide-mouthed glass jar or jelly-glass, 
then put in a cool place to await a hurry call. 

To make a white sauce with this thicken- 
ing two tablespoonfuls of it are melted in a 
saucepan, half a pint of milk poured upon it, 
and this stirred until the sauce is thick and 
smooth, then seasoned to taste. The brown 
thickening is made in the same way, except 
that it must cook until brown before it is 
removed from the fire, and that it is usually 

109 



A-B-C OF COOKING 

necessary to add a little caramel to the stock 
with which it is converted into a sauce. 

One of the wise economies of the house- 
keeper is found in the saving of dripping. 
This is the fat that cooks from the roast, 
that is skimmed from the pot in which 
meat is boiled, that fries out of meat in the 
frying-pan, or that is left on the trimmings 
of the meat from the butcher. 

The scraps of fat meat should be put to- 
gether in a saucepan with cold water enough 
to cover them and simmered until the meat 
is cooted to pieces. The vessel is then set 
away to cool, and the fat which arises to the 
surface will be in a cake which can be lifted 
off. This is turned into a saucepan with 
whatever dripping may be on hand, two cup- 
fuls of boiling water put with it, and all 
boiled uncovered for an hour, when a tea- 
spoonful of salt is thrown in and the sauce- 
pan bestowed in a cold place, to await the 
point when the fat will be formed into a 
solid cake which can be lifted out and used 
for frying. 



THE END 



• I 




r 






