Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



The Arthur and Elizabeth 

SCHLESINGER LIBRARY 

on the History of Women 
in America 

RADCLIFFE COLLEGE 




Gift of Sophie Ooe 



i 



' J *' " 



■\ 



Hyal 

COOK BOOK 



PRACTICAL RECIPES 

THAT HAVE BEEN TESTED IN ACTUAL USE 



PREPAllED BY ONE OF 

THE WORLD'S MOST FAMOUS 

DOMESTIC SaENCE AUTHORITIES 

JANET Mckenzie hill 

EDITOR BOSTON COOKING 
SCHOOL MAGAZINE 



PRICE $1.00 



PUBLISHED BT 

NYAL COMPANY 

DETROIT, U.S.A. 



1' <■ * •«. 



ST 

Tn Boston Cooking-School Magaiini Co. 






\ 



PREFACE 

AiaaacAN cookery has become cosmopolitan in its char- 
acter. The New Ekigland cookery of colonial times has 
been superseded by cookery that has culled the best from 
every land and clime. 

Our markets glean from the whole wide world, to meet 
the demands of a people assembled therefrom, and cookery 
depends largely on what is available. 

CosmopoUtfiui cookery does not mean complicated ma- 
nipulation of materials, but it deals largely with the cheaper 
food-products, together with other dishes than the plain 
roasted, broiled or boiled joints common in the days of 
our forefathers. 

The Nyal Cook Book deals with the matter ui hand 
in a simple, concise manner ; and while each recipe is, in 
general, so written that any one not versed in cookery can 
carry it out, the beginner before attempting a new dish 
would do well to mske a study of the brief introductory 
matter given at the head of the chapter in which the recipe 
is found. 

Also, in examining a new recipe it is well to note the 
essentiaJs and the non-essentials that make up its content. 
Non-essentials are usually added for variety in flavor or 
appearance, and if not agreeable may be eliminated with- 
out detriment to the dish ; at the same time let no one 
forget that flavor in food is a prime requisite and it must 
be brought out or retained in the viand as the case may 
demand. 

The world is sadly in need of cooks, men and women, 
who can take common, inexpensive food-products and so 
treat th^n as to bring out their latent juiciness and flavor, 
and at the same time retain their nutritive properties and 
render them assimilable. 

Janet M. Hill. 

February 22, 1916. 

NoTB. In all recipes in which flour is called for, bread flour 
(spring wheat) is indicated when yeast is to be used ; in all other 
cases pastiy flour is to be used. Flour is measured after atfting 
once. When flour is measured by cups, the cup is filled with a 
spoon, and a level cupful is meant. Unless otherwise indicated, a 
tableepoonful or a tea^oonful of any designated material is a level 
cq;>ooniul of such matenaL J. M. H. 



CONTENTS 

Chaptbr Page 

I Appetizers 1 

II Soups 10 

III Eggs 24 

IV Fish 34 

V Poultry, Domestic Geese and Ducks . 53 

VI Meats 65 

VII Vegetables, Hominy, Macaroni, etc. . 93 

VIII Salads -HI 

IX Yeast Mixtures — Bread and Rolls . . 127 

X Quick Hot Breads ....... 139 

XI Cake and Frosting ....... 144 

XII Pastry AND Pies . 166 

XIII Hot and Cold Puddings, Custards, 

Jellies, Creams, etc. . . . . . . 176 

XIV Frozen Desserts 194 

XV Preserves, Jelly, Canned Foods and 

Pickles 206 

Index 219 



LIST OF 
ILLUSTRATIONS 

Table Laid for Thanksgiving Dinner . . . Frontispiece. 

Opposite page 

Oyster Cocktail 8 

Anchovy-and-Egg Canapes 8 

Chaudfroid of Poached Eggs . 9 

Sardine Canapes 9 

Eggs k la Grant 9 

Eggs Opera 40 

Egg Salad, Aurore 40 

Canned Salmon Loaf 40 

Canned Salmon Croquettes 41 

Pilau k la Turque 41 

Jellied Turkey 41 

Veal Cutlets, Pojarski . 72 

Boned Leg of Lamb Studded with Ham .... 72' 

Cold Ham Mousseline 73 

Boiled Leg of Mutton 73 

Broiled Egg Plant 73 

Cauliiaower, Mattre d'H6tel 104 

French Artichoke, Hollandaise Sauce 104 

Salsify, Melted Butter 104 

Tomato Jelly-and-Baked Bean Salad 105 

Lobster Salad 106 

Potato Salad 106 

Kugelhopf Kuchen Sliced and Toasted . • • . 136 

Kugelhopf Kuchen Beady to Shape 136 

Popovers 137 

Fruit-and-Nut Christmas Cakes 137 

Little Pound Cakes 168 



LIST OF ILLUSTB/LTIONB 

OpponUpage 

Date-and-Banana Salad 168 

MdbaCups 168 

little Pumpkin Pies 169 

Marlboro Tart 169 

Lemon Sponge Pie 169 

Chocolate Charlotte Russe 200 

Almond Meringues, with Strawberries and Cream . 200 

Charlotte Russe, with Jelly Roll 200 

Poinsettia Wafers 201 

Ice Cream, Baked Alaska, with Figs 201 

Small Graham Cracker Cakes 201 




INTRODUCTION 

ie Nyal CJook Book contains tested, practical 
recipes prepared by one of America's fore- 
most cooking authorities. This book has 
been especially prepared for Nyal Quality 
druggists. It is a standard work which will be appreciated 
by the busy housewife because it suggests a wide selec- 
tion of nutritious, palatable dishes which add variety 
and zest to the daily menu. 

The Nyal druggist believes in quality and service — ^be 
gives both in ministering to the many, ahnost daily, needs 
of the average household. 

There is a Nyal Quality Drug Store in practically every 
town and hamlet in the United States. In the larger 
cities, there are many of these Nyal Quality Drug Stores. 
These Stores control the sale of the Nyal line of reliable 
medicinal prescriptions intended for the relief of minor 
ailments which are not sufficiently serious to require the 
services of a physician. You wiU find that you can de- 
pend upon these tested, guaranteed, Nyal home prescrip- 
tions each of which is especially prepared for the treat- 
ment of a single ailment. Full and specific directions 
for use are found on each package. 

These Nyal prescriptions are time-tried and service- 
proven — ^they have been giving the best of satisfaction for 
m?.:iy years. Because of their reputation for reliability, 
your Nyal druggist will unhesitatingly refund your money 



INTRODUCTION 

if you should fail to get satisfactory results from the 
Nyal prescription which you have taken strictly accord- 
ing to directions. 

Each Nyal prescription is prepared from the best and 
purest of carefully tested standardized drugs and chemicals 
and compounded by expert chemists. Nyal Home Pre- 
scriptions are manufactured in one of the largest and most 
up-to-date pharmaceutical laboratories in the United 
States. The name "Nyal" on any medicinal preparation 
is to you a guarantee that it is the best that the drug world 
produces. Your Nyal druggist knows the formula of every 
Nyal prescription and will gladly advise yau of the in- 
gredients contained in each. 

In medicine, quality is of the utmost importance. 
Tk«re is nothing experimental about any of the Nyal 
pr«pakrations. Before these products are offered for sale, 
thty have been thoroughly tested and found to be com- 
pletely reliable. You cannot afford to take any chances 
with experimental, uncertain, or untried formulas. 

At the back of this book you will find a list of a number 
of Nyal medicinal prescriptions with suggestions for their 
use. Whenever in need of a medicine for the treatment 
of a slight ailment, we suggest that you consult this list. 
We are confident that you will be well satisfied with the 
results obtained through the use of Nyal Family Prescrip- 
tions. 

NYAL COMPANY 

DETROIT 

MICHIGAN, U. S. A. 




Suggfestions to Young Housekeepers on 
Economy and the Use of Left-Overs 

lere are so many attractive things that a 
young housekeeper wishes to possess and 
her income is so inelastic that she is apt 
to scrimp on the food supply. This is the 
poorest kind of economy. The drains on 
the energy and vital forces of young people are many 
and these are to be met almost wholly by food. To be 
able to put forth his best efforts and do a good day's 
work, be it mental or physical, a man must be well nour- 
ished. The largest intake of food is needed at about the 
age of twenty-four years. The children in the family 
are building bone, nerves and tissues and their condition 
throughout life will depend upon the provision of proper 
building materials at this period. A woman can under- 
take no more important business than this of supplying 
proper food to her family. The wise woman considers 
her housekeeping a matter of business with the health 
of her family as the main object of her labors. First of 
all, she must acquaint herself with the composition of all 
food supplies; that is, come to know food values, in 
order that she may know whether she is providing her 
family with bread or a stone. 

Marketing Economically 
In order to buy economically one must go to the market 
in person and see what she buys. Do not give orders by 
telephone or through the boy sent from the market, and 
do not go to market with the intention of bu3dng just such 
articles and no others; take advantage of the supplies 
offered; an oversupply of a certain article may have lowered 
the price for the time being; this is your opportunity. Do 
not buy, however, unless the product be of good quality 



MvAL cam BOOK 

and of such character as will be acceptable to your family, 
for bargains in food are usually the poorest investments 
possible. Learn to market by marketing. There is no 
sure way to distinguish the various cuts of meat but by 
seeing them cut from the side of beef or lamb and then 
by handling them yourself. Soon you will know by the 
external appearance whether you are buying bone, fat or 
lean meat, or whether the cheap cut which you plan to 
buy is of such quality as it should be. In buying vege- 
tables remember that size is not always a favorable recom- 
mendation. You get the most from your money when all 
tiie edible portions of what you buy are eaten. Tender- 
ness, an accompaniment of youth, is what you are to look 
for in vegetables. Fresh fruit is well nigh a necessity and 
it is more economical to buy in small quantities than to 
run the risk of its decay on your hands. Bananas, if 
raider green, may be bought more generously, but they 
should be attached to the parent stalk, and removed 
from the paper bag enclosing them as soon as they are 
received in the house. 

Spending Time Rather Than Money 
Marketing in person means an expenditure ol time, 
but this is only a beginning of what may be done in the 
line of economy, if time be available. Slices of tendpr 
me9.t and fish, with little or no preparation, may be 
broiled in a very few minutes, and one rarely tires of the 
choice flavor of carefully broiled foods; but these items, 
as also choice roasts, are too expensive for daily use. 
Flavor is what makes food appetizing. The woman who 
wishes to economize, and at the same time please her 
family, must be willhig to give minute attention to the 
details that are necessary to bring out the latent 
juiciness and flavor in common food products and render 
them palatable and assimilable. We enjoy the flavor of 
meat, and inexpensive cuts may be made into dishes quite 
as nutritious as the more tender portions; also those cuts 
may be so used as to extend the meat flavor to bland 



BUGOESnONS TO TOUNG HOUBSKBEPEBS 

v^etable foods, as the grains and cereals. In cooku 
the cheaper cute of meat the connective tissue ipust be 
changed to gelatine. For this moisture, usually water, 
18 introduced and long cooking is resorted to. 

The first thing in cookery that the young housekeeper 
needs to learn is, that meats and kindred food-products, 
after they are once seared over on the outside to keep in 
the juice, must be cooked at a low temperature; also that 
slack-baked bread, cake or flour-mixtures will surely occa- 
sion dyspepsia. When the cooking of the cheaper cuts of 
meat is completed, the fibres should be tender and held to- 
gether loosely, yet compactly, in a slightly gelatinous mass. 
Meats lacking in flavor are often improved if onions, 
celery, tomatoes, green or red peppers be cooked with them. 

Use of Left-Overs ^ 

As a rule recooked food loses in digestibility, and, in 
general, it is best to buy and cook just enough for the meals 
of most articles that make up the day's supply, but even 
then there will be usually some good material "left over" 
that is worth attention. Indeed, no woman can expect 
to get the most possible from her marketing unless she 
takes personal care of the "left overs." 

Meat gravy left on the platter will provide flavor for 
a sauce or soup, especially if it be helped out with the 
browned juices on the bones, and the skinned legs of a fowl. 
The flank end of a steak, run through the food chopper, 
will add food value and flavor to a dish of macaroni for the 
mid-day luncheon; reserve, but once, the water in which 
a cod or haddock was boiled and thereafter the saucepan 
of rich fish jelly will supply the basis of an appetizing fish 
chowder; also bits of fresh fish may be used in souffles, 
in fish cakes or in salad; even half a cup of cooked peas or 
asparagus will change the character of the poached or 
scrambled eggs at breakfast and will make a prosaic 
French omelet a feast for the eye and the palate, to say 
nothing of the possibility of getting along with a smaller 
number of eggs. 



XYAL COOKBOOK 

But if these and all other left-overs are to be available^ 
they must be taken care of. Left uncovered over night, 
moisture dries out and a generally unpalatable appearance 
is presented. Close covering is essential, but this must be 
delayed until the articles are cold; nor should warm food 
be set aside in the same dish with cold articles, lest the 
whole become sour. 

Points Necessary for Success in Preparing ^fLeft-Overs" 

(1) The food must be sweet. 

(2) The left-over food must be combined with suitable 
ingredients. 

(3) The left-over food must have been properly handled 
when cooked the first time (as, doughy, uncooked bread can 
not be made wholesome, no matter how treated or with 
what ingredients it be combined). 

(4) As most articles lose flavor on recooking, flavor 
must be added. 

(5) As left-overs are already cooked and heat hardens 
them, they should be protected from strong heat, by 
sauce, pastry, buttered crumbs, fritter-batter or by egg- 
ing-and-crumbing them. 

(6) All unedible portions of the article must be care^ 
fully removed before it is combined with food in an 
edible condition. 

(7) Articles that caU for long cooking must not be 
combined with food already cooked. 

Choice of Dishes 

The use to which left-over material is to be put is to be 
decided by the materials at hand; enough materials are 
to be added to make the dish ''go round;'' but it is not wise 
to add supplies that cost more than a palatable dish in a 
fresh state would cost; for made-over dishes are not as 
easily digested as those that are cooked for the first time. 

One of the simplest ways of serving left-over vegetables, 
fish, or meat is in a cream sauce; a generous cup of meat 



SUGGESTIONS TO TOUNQ H0X7SEEEEPEBS 

or vegetable is allowed to each level cup of hot sauce, thus 
practically doubling the quantity of the dish; made into 
a cream soup the quantity of the dish is doubled again. 
Most every one likes these d^hes, as also croquettes and 
souffles which have a cream sauce as a foundation; but 
there is danger of serving creamed dishes too often. All 
''made dishes " are for occasional use. Those who desire 
a clear complexion (and this means a healthy stomach) 
must beware of hidden fats as a^steady diet. Fat is a 
necessity in the dietary, but starch fried in fat is not the 
most hygienic form in which it can be presented. 

There are three ways in which a white sauce is made; 
the usual and quickest method is not the most wholesome, 
and, if creamed dishes are heartily approved by the 
family, occasionally, take a little more time to prepare 
the dishes and use one of the more hygienic methods of 
combining the ingredients. The three ways of making a 
white sauce are as follows: > 

White Sauce (Quick Method) 

2 tablespoonf uls butter 

2 tablespoonf uls flour 
^ teaspoonf ul salt 
ii teaspoonful pepper 

1. cup cold milk or white broth 

Melt the butter; m it cook the flour, salt and pepper 
imtil bubbling throughout; add the cold liquid and cook 
and stir constantly until boiling. As the flour (starch) 
cooked in the bubbling butter is cooking at a high tem- 
perature, it is cooked quickly, and, when the sauce has 
boiled five or six minutes, it is done. 

White Sauce (Hygfenic Method) 

a cup milk or broth scalded over boiling water 
2 tablespoonf uls flour 
}i teaspoonful salt 
"^ teai^poonful pepper 
j^ cup cold milk 

Gradually stir the cold milk into the flour, salt and pepper 

sifted together; stir until the mixture is perfectly smooth, 

then stir into the hot milk, and continue to stir until the 



sauce thickens; cover and let cook fifteen to twenty min- 
utes, stirring occasionally. As the flour (starch) is cooked 
at a low temperature, long cooking is necessary. If a 
flavor of butter is desired, remove from the fire and beat 
in one or two tablespoonf uls of butter, a little at a time. 

White Sauce 

1 cup milk scalded over boiling water 

2 tablespoonf uls butter 
2 table^xwnf uls flour 

\i teaspoonf ul salt 
\i teajipoonf ul pepper 

Cream the butter; gradually beat into it the flour and 
seasonings, then add a Uttle of the hot milk and stur until 
smooth; add a little more milk, stirring each time smooth, 
until the mixture may be poured into the double boiler; 
stir constantly while the mixture thickens, then cover and 
let cook fifteen to twenty minutes. fSx)m a hygienic 
standpoint this sauce is classed between the other two. 
The starch is not ''fried in butter," but is cooked, and 
butter is at its best when subjected to no heat higher than 
that of the article with which it is served, after cooking 
is completed. 

Other Similar Sauces 

Brown and tomato sauces may be made by any one of 
these recipes by simply changing the liquid to brown 
(beef) broth or tomato purte (cooked tomatoes strained). 

Croquettes 

One of the best means of occasionally using left-overs 
of delicate meat and fish is in croquettes. With a little 
practice croquettes are easily made ready early in the 
day and the final cooking is the work of but a few minutes; 
and a carefully prepared croquette is certainly a delicacy 
not to be despised. 

If frying be objectionable, they may be baked. For 
baking they should be single breaded; that is, l^e first 
covering of crumbs should be omitted, lest the croquette 
be dry. 



SUGGESTIONS TO TOUNQ HOU8BKEEPBBS 

Fried food is often condemned in a wholesale manner 
that the facts do not warrant. Fat raised to too high a 
temperature breaks up into acrid compounds that are not 
wholesome; carelessness in heating {fat can not be con- 
demned too strongly; but the woman who understands 
this and gives careful attention to the process will not err 
in this respect. An article fried in fat of a proper tem- 
perature and drained on soft paper should contain no 
appreciable fat. The hot fat into which an article coated 
with egg and crumbs is lowered in frying hardens the 
coating instantly, making the article impervious to fat 
and keeping in the flavor and juice. 



Care of Fat after 

Crmnbe, flour or other food, which have dropped into 
the fat during the process of frying, bum at a much lower 
temperature than does the fat itself; if these be not re- 
moved before the fat is again reheated they will bla«ken 
and spoil the fat. With a tin pail, kept for the purpose, 
it is the work of but a few minutes to pass the partially 
cooled fat through a cheesecloth or piece of old linen laid 
over a strainer (to hold it in place) in the pail. When the 
frying bowl has been thoroughly cleansed the fat may be 
returned to it. 

Left-Overs in Salads 

Delicate meats, fish and most vegetables left over are 
particularly appetizing and wholesome when presented in 
the form of salads; lettuce, cress, endive and celery may be 
used to increase the bulk. The plain French dressing — 
three tablespoonfuls of oil to one of vinegar with salt, 
pepper and, quite generally, a few drops of onion juice or 
scraped pulp — ^is the most desirable sauce for these dishes; 
though occasionally when tomatoes or cauliflower form a 
part of the dish the richer mayonnaise may be used. 
Salads and dressings are given fuller attention j[>n another 
page. 



XYAL COOKBOOK 
RECIPES TO SERVE TWO TO FOUR PEOPLE 

Lamb-and-Tomato Soup 
This recipe may be found on page fifteen. The water 
in which a leg or piece of the forequarter of lamb was 
boiled may be used for this soup. If preferred, the bits 
of vegetable may be left in the soup. 

Chicken Timbales 
This recipe is given on page sixty. It will serve 
four. Veal, ham, lamb, tongue or fish may be used in- 
stead of the chicken. Or, instead of one variety of meat 
several may be combined. 

Salmon Timbales 
This recipe is given on page forty-one, the one for 
cooked salmon. It will serve four. Delicate meats or 
other fish than salmon may be used. Usually a sauce is 
served with timbales, but this may be replaced with 
stewed or scalloped tomatoes, buttered onions, etc. 

Hot Chicken Sandwich, Indienne 
Remove the flesh from the bones of cold, stewed or roast 
chicken, and chop the meat, not too fine (use bowl and 
knife) . Have ready rounds of toasted white bread ; spread 
these with butter, and then generously with chicken and 
press together in pairs. When ready to serve pour over 
very hot chicken gravy. Serve with cabbage or celery 
salad or stewed cranberries. In making the sauce use 
one-fourth a teaspoonful of curry powder with each two 
tablespoonfuls of flour. The better the chicken broth for 
the sauce the better the dish will be. Baking-powder 
biscuit, split and toasted, may replace the bread. English 
mufl^ may also be used. 

Chicken Croquettes 

This recipe is given on page sixty-one; it makes eight 
croquettes. Other delicate meats, fish or shellfish may 
be used in place of the chicken. Do not chop the chicken. 



SUGGESTIONS TO TOUNG fiOtEBEKEEPERS 

but cut it by hand in small cubes or tangible pieces. A 
eroquette is at its best when it is made up of small pieces 
of material, each surrounded by a creamy sauce. 

Lamb Souffle 

1 tablespoonful butter Ji teaspoonful pepper 

1 tablespoonful flour J^ teaspoonful onion juice 

1 cup tomato purde 1 teaspoonful parsley 

^ cup soft bread crumbs 2 egg-yolks, beaten light 
a teaspoonful salt 1 cup chopped lamb 

2 egg-whites, beaten very light 

Melt the butter; in it cook the flour, add the pur^ and 
stir until boiling; add the crumbs, seasoning, egg-yolks 
and meat and mix thoroughly; fold in the whites and turn 
into a buttered baking dish. Set into a dish of boiling 
water; let bake until firm, but without boiling the water. 
Serve with caper or tomato sauce or with green peas or 
Lima beans, well buttered. This will serve two or three. 

Creamed Corned Beef au Gratin 
Make one pint of cream sauce by the second recipe for 
cream sauce, scalding two sUces of onion and a stalk of 
celery with the milk and removing from the finished 
sauce. Add two cups of cooked corned beef cut in small 
cubes and turn into a buttered dish. Cover with half 
a cup of cracker crumbs mixed with two tablespoonf uls of 
melted butter. Bake until the crumbs are brown. 

LEFT-OVERS FROM ROASTS OF BEEF 

"Left-overs" from pot or other roasts of beef with the 
bones will make a good stew, a cottage pie or an ordinary 
meat-pie with buscuit crust. For either of these 'latter 
dishes the meat, cut in bits and freed of all unedible por- 
tions, should be covered with boiling water and after 
boiling five minutes be simmered until tender. 

Cottage Pie 
Put the meat prepared as above, seasoned with salt, 
pepper, Worcestershire sauce and little onion if desired, 
into a baking dish; add a little hot brown sauce, if any 



MYU.C0OKBO(X 

be left from the roast. Have ready hot, mashed potato, 
seasoned with salt and pepper and made a little moist with 
milk and butter; spread potato over the top of the meat; 
pipe on a little if time is available; brush over with the 
beaten yolk of an egg mixed with a little milk and set into 
the oven to brown the edges of the potato slightly. Do 
not make the potato too moist. 

lifacarom and Beef 

For a cup of tender beef in pieces, such as are used for 
the pies described above, boil one cup of macaroni in 
rapidly boiling, salted water until very tender; drain, 
rinse in cold water and drain again. Melt one-fourth a 
cup of butter; in it cook one-fourth a cup of flour and half 
a teaspoonful, each, of salt and pepper, then add one cup 
of tomato pur^ (cooked tomatoes pressed through a sieve) 
and one cup of soup stock made from the meat (flavored 
with celery, carrot and onion) and stir until boiling; add the 
macaroni and meat and let stand over hot water until very 
hot throughout. This will serve from two to four. 

Cheese Pudding with Pimiento 
Butter two thick (three-fourths an inch) slices of bread, 
put the slices together and cut them in cubes. In a 
buttered baking dish mix the cubes of bread with a pi- 
miento cut in small squares, and two-thirds a cup of sliced 
or chopped cheese. Beat two eggs; add half a teaspoonful 
of salt and two cups of rich milk; mix and turn over the 
bread, etc. Bake in a very moderate oven until the 
pudding is well pufifed and the egg is set. Serve hot with 
green salad or cooked fruit. Sufficient for three or four 
peri^ns. The pimiento may be omitted. 

Tomato Cream Toast 

Melt three tablespoonfuls of butter; in it cook three 

tablespoonfuls of flour and a scant half teaspoonful, eaeh, 

of salt and pepper; then add one cup and a fourth of tomato 

pur6e (stewed tomatoes strained) and half a eup of hot 



8UGQESTI0NS TO TOUKQ HOUSEKESPEBS 

cream. Dip the edge of six slices of toast, one after another 
in boiling salted water, then dip into the sauce, and remove 
to a serving dish. Grated cheese of any kind may be 
stirred and melted in the sauce if desired. 

COOKING TIME TABLE 

FOR BAKING 

JMLeatS Time Ib Oven 

Mutton, leg, per pound 10 to 15 min. 

Beef ribs, per pound 8 to 15 " 

Round of Beef, per pound 12 to 15 " 

Lamb, well done, per pound 15 " 

Pork, well done, per pound 20 " 

Veal, well done, per pound 18 to 20 " 

Mutton, shoulder, stuffed, per pound 15 " 

Venison, rare, per pound 10 " 

Goose, per pound 18 " 

Chicken, per pound 15 " 

Turk^ 15^ to 3 hours 

Birds, small (hot oven) 15 to 20 min. 

Ducks, wild (very hot oven) 15 " 

Ducks, tame 45 '^ 

Partridge 35 to 40 " 

Bread 1 hour 

Custard (very slow oven) 1 " 

Biscuits 25 min. 

Cakes, according to thickness 20 min. to 1 hour 

FOR BROILING 

Meats 

Mutton chops 8 to 10 min. 

Grouse 15 " 

Quail 8 to 10 " 

Steak IJ^ inches thick 10 to 15 " 

Steak I mch thick 8 to 10 " 

Spring chicken 20 '^ 

Squab 10 to 16 " 

Fish 

Shad 15 to 25 min. 

Trout IStoK " 



KVAL COOKBOOK 

Fish — Continued Time in Oven 

Bluefish 15 to 25 min. 

SmaU fish 6 to 10 " 

FOR BOILING 

Vegetables 

Peas 15 to 20 min. 

Spinach 15 to 20 " 

lima Beans 30 to 40 " 

String Beans 20 to 60 " 

Potatoes 20 to 30 " 

Asparagus 20 to 25 " 

Brussefi sprouts 10 to 15 " 

Green com 20 to 25 '' 

Onions 30 to 60 " 

Parsnips 30 to 40 " 

Rice 20 to 40 " 

Turnips 30 " 

Beets 30 min. or longer 

Cauliflower 20 min. 

Cabbage 20 min. or longer 

Macaroni 20 min. or longer 

Meats 

■ Mutton, per pound 15 min. 

Ham, per pound 20 " 

Chicken, per pound 15 " 

Turkey, per pound 15 " 

Corned Beef, per pound » . . . 30 " 

Fowl, per pound 20 to 30 " 

Tripe, per pound 3 to 5 hours 

Fish 

Halibut, per pound 15 min. 

Bluefish, per pound 10 

Bass, per pound 10 

Codfish, per pound 6 

Haddock, per pound 6 " 

Salmon, per pound 10 to 15 

Small fish, per pound 6 " 

Lobster 30to40 " 



hyal cook Book 

BECrPES FOR EVERY-DAY USE 



CHAPTER I 

APPETIZERS 

Appetizers are served at the beginning of luncheon or 
dinner and, oceasionaUy, as a prelude to a banquet or a 
chafing-dish supper. When prepared in individual por- 
tions they should always be very small; canapes should 
not exceed two and a half by perhaps one and a half 
inches in surface. 

Hers d'CEavreS) Italian Style 

Hors d'oeuvres served after the Italian style are placed 
in a dish divided into compartments. The dishes have 
from two to five compartments, aad usually there is a dif- 
ferent article in each compartment. The dish is passed, 
that each may help himself to what he wishes. A dish of 
two compartments might be suppUed with a savory, as 
caviare, slices of pickled and smoked tongue, imported 
sausages in tiny slices, potted meat, and bread in some 
form. A dish of five compartments might be supplied 
with two savories, pimolas or olives, bread in some form, 
green or fancy butter. The various compartments should 
be daintily and appropriately decorated. 

Scandinavian Hors dXEuvre 

Cut into match-like shreds, an inch long, equal portions 
of cold, cooked eggs, potatoes and beets, also gherkins 



2 MYfiL cauc bom: 

and anchovies, herrings or sardines; season to taste with 
salt) pepper and cider vinegar, then stir in enough cream, 
beaten firm, to hold the ingredients together. Serve on 
smaU, carefully washed-and-dried lettaoe leaves, a tea- 
spoonful to each service. 

Orange-and-Strawbeny Cocktail 

Peel the oranges and remove the pulp neatly and with- 
out having any of the white membrane left upon it; divide 
it into half-inch pieces, saving all the juice. Hull the ber- 
ries, wac^ and dry them, if necessary, then cut into halves. 
Set the whole asideHo become chilled. When ready to 
serve, mix the pieces of berry and orange with a very 
little sugar. Divide the fruit among the glasses and pour 
over it the juice. A little champagne or maraschino may 
be added with the juice. 

Grapefruit Cocktail 

Cut the grapefruit in halves, and take out eadi section 
of pulp in as perfect shape as possible; save all the juice; 
dispose the pulp and juice in cocktail glasses; cprinkle 
lightly with sifted powdered sugar and set a maraschino 
cherry above the fruit in each glass. The fruit and juice 
should be chilled separately before it is put into the 
glasses. Sherry is often added, but it is no improvement 
to the cocktail. 

Clam and Oyster Cocktells 

Clams and oysters for service in cocktails should be 
exceedingly fresh, small, carefully washed, dried and 
chilled; five or six of each constitute one service. Dispose 
on cracked ice on oyster plates with a smaU glass in the 
center of the plate holding about two tablespoonfids of 



APPETIZEBS 3 

tomato catsup. Additional seasoning, as onioa juice, 
tabasco sauce, paprika, etc., may be added to the catsup 
if desired. Chilled quarters of small hot-house tomatoes, 
bits of lobster, parboiled or raw scallops, choice pieces of 
finnan haddie, etc. are also used in cocktails. 

Oyster Cocktail Sauce^ September S^e 

Chop a red and a green pepper exceedingly fine; add 
to tomato catsup with a scraping of new onion. The quan- 
tity of catsup used with the peppers will depend on indi- 
vidual taste. This sauce is good with lobster, scallops 
or fresh tomatoes. 

Crabflake Cocktail in Green Pepper Ctags 

Cut green peppers of small dze to form cups, discarding 
the seeds and the white portion on which the seeds grow. 
Season tomato catsup to suit the taste and turn two or 
three tablespoonfuls into each pepper. Set the peppers 
in the center of individual plates, around them dispose 
four or five small heart-leaves of lettuce, and on each leaf 
set two choice crab flakes. 

Celery Relish 

Cut tender heartnstalks of celery into pieces about two 
inches long. Let crisp in ice water to which a lemon rind 
or a tablespoonful of vinegar has been added. Pick the 
fillets from three anchovies, fine, with a silver fork (if put 
up in salt, freshen in cold water) ; mix the anchovies with 
the sifted yolks and the chopped whites of two hard-cooked 
^gs; stir in enough mayonnaise dressing to hold the in- 
gredients together. Wipe the celery dry and use as a re- 
ceptacle for the mixture. 



4 kmlcookbom: 

Sardine Canapes, No. z 

Spread lengthwise bits of bread with butter and let 
brown in a hot oven. When cold spread with sardine 
fillets, pounded with^an equal measure of butter and sea- 
soned with salt, paprika and a few grains of mustard or 
curry. Set half a choice sardine, freed of sldn and bones, 
in the center of the paste. Decorate the comers with 
capers, spread mayonnaise mbced with chopped oUves, 
parsley and chives over the fillets of fish and let chill 
thoroughly. Serve as a first coiurse at luncheon or dinner. 

Sardine Canapes, No. 2 

Cream one-fourth a cup of butter; beat into it a canned 
pimiento, washed, dried and chopped fine, half a cup of 
flaked sardines, a teaspoonful of grated onion, and cream 
to make it moist; press through a sieve. Pipe on to the 
edge of triangles or fingers of toasted-and-cooled bread. 
Set half a sardine down the center; fill one side with 
chopped white or sifted yolk of egg, and the other with 
chopped pickled beets. 

Sardine Roulettes 

Ssaidines 1 eg^ yolk, cooked 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 1 tablespoon! ul mayonnaise 

10 drops onion juioe Thin slices hot brown bread 

l^ a dulli pepper, chopped Hard-cooked yolk of egg oft 

1 tablespoonf ul chopped parsley Lobster coral 

Wipe the oil from the sardines, remove the fillets, and 
to them add the butter, onion juice, pepper, parsley and 
egg yolk, and pound the whole to a smooth paste; add 
the mayonnaise and mix thoroughly. Remove the outside 
or crust trom a bricknshaped loaf of hot brown bread (the 
bread may be made hot by resteaming) . Spread the slices 
lightly with the sardine mixture, and as soon as a slice is 
spread roll it like a jelly-roU. Set them side by side on a 



APPETIZEBS 5 

serving dish and sift the yolk of egg or lobster coral over 
the top. 

Anchovy Medallions 

Prepare rounds of cold boiled potatoes, a trifle larger 
than a silver dollar; spread with anchovy butter, set a 
row of fine-chopped, cooked, white of egg on the edge, and 
a row of sifted yolk inside with caviare in the center. Serve 
each on a heart-leaf of lettuce. Oyster forks are provided 
for eating these. 

Anchovy Canapes 

Prepare diamond-shaped pieces of bread two and one 
half inches by one and one half inches; spread with 
butter and let brown in the oven. When cool spread with 
anchovy butter, press a slice of hard-cooked egg in the 
center of each shape, and pipe anchovy butter around 
the egg, to fill the space to the edge; pipe a^ star of the 
paste on the center of the yolk. To prepare the paste, 
freshen a dozen anchovies, if salt, in milk, then wipe dry. 
If the anchovies are put up in oil rather than salt, wipe 
free of oil. Remove the fillets from the bones, poimd them 
smooth, add half a cup (four ounces) of butter and pound 
again, then press through a ffleve. Red herrings or 
smoked salmon may replace the anchovy. Anchovy paste 
may be ^beaten into creamed butter, and simplifies the 
preparation of the dish. The paste put up by Crosse 
and Blackwell of London comes in small jars. 

Anchovy-and-Egg Canap€s 

Roll trimmings of puff-paste, left after cutting out pat- 
ties or a vol-au-vent, to a little less than one-fourth an 
inch in thickness, and stamp out with a sharp cutter, 
dipped in boiling water, into diamond or other shapes. 
Chill and bake till done. Beat one-third a cup of butter 
to a cream and gradually beat in enough anchovy paste 



X^AL came BOOK 

Fish — Continued Time in Ov«i 

Bluefish 15 to 25 min. 

Small fish 5 to 10 '' 

FOR BOILING 

Vegetables 

Peas 15 to 20 min. 

Spinach 15 to 20 " 

lima Beans 30 to 40 " 

String Beans 20 to 60 " 

Potatoes 20 to 30 " 

Asparagus 20 to 25 " 

Brussels sprouts 10 to 15 " 

Green corn 20 to 25 " 

Onions 30 to 60 " 

Parsnips 30 to 40 " 

Bice 20 to 40 '' 

Turnips 30 " 

Beets 30 min. or longer 

Cauliflower 20 min. 

Cabbage 20 min. or longer 

Macaroni 20 min. or longer 

Meats 

• Mutton, per pound 15 min. 

Ham, per pound 20 " 

Chicken, per pound 15 " 

Turkey, per pound 15 " 

Corned Beef, per pound » . . . 30 " 

Fowl, per pound 20 to 30 " 

Tripe, per pound 3 to 5 hours 

Fish 

Halibut, per pound 15 min. 

Bluefish, per pound 10 " 

Bass, per pound 10 

Codfish, per pound 6 " 

Haddock, per pound 6 

Salmon, per pound 10 to 15 " 

Small fish, per pound 6 " 

Lobster 30to40 " 



hyal cook Book 

RECIPES FOR EVERY-DAY USE 



CHAPTER I 

APPETIZERS 

Appetizers are served at the beginning of luncheon or 
dinner and, occasionally, as a prelude to a banquet or a 
chafing-dish supper. When prepared in individual por- 
tions they should always be very small; canapes should 
not exceed two and a half by perhaps one and a half 
inches in surface. 

Hers d*(EuvreSy Italian Style 

Hors d'ceuvres served after the Italian style are placed 
in a dish divided into compartments. The dishes have 
from two to five compartments, and usually there is a dif- 
ferent article in each compartment. The dish is passed, 
that each may help himself to what he wishes. A dish of 
two compartments might be supplied with a savory, as 
caviare, slices of pickled and smoked tongue, imported 
sausages in tiny slices, potted meat, and bread in some 
form. A dish of five compartments might be supplied 
with two savories, pimolas or olives, bread in some form, 
green or fancy butter. The various compartments should 
be daintily and appropriately decorated. 

Scandinavian Hors d'OBuvre 

Cut into match-like shreds, an inch long, equal portions 
of cold, cooked eggs, potatoes and beets, also gherkins 



2 KMLCOmcBOfX 

and anchovies, herrings or sardines; season to taste with 
salt, pepper and cider vinegar, then stir in enough cream, 
beaten firm, to hold the ingredients together* Serve on 
small, carefully washed-and-dried lettuce leaves, a tea* 
spoonful to each service. 

Onmge-and-Strawbeny Cocktail 

Peel the oranges and remove the pulp neatly and with- 
out having any of the white membrane left upon it; divide 
it into half-inch pieces, saving all the juice. Hull the ber- 
ries, wash and dry them, if necessary, then cut into halves. 
Set the whole asideHo become chilled. When ready to 
serve, mix the pieces of berry and orange with a very 
little sugar. Divide the fruit among the glasses and pour 
over it the juice. A little champagne or maraschino may 
be added with the juice. 

Grapefruit Cocktail 

Cut the grapefruit in halves, and take out eadi section 
of pulp in as perfect shai)e as possible; save aU the juice; 
dispose the pulp and juice in cocktail glasses; i^rinkle 
lightly with sifted powdered sugar and set a maraschino 
cherry above the fruit in each glass. The fruit and juice 
should be chilled separately before it is put into the 
glasses. Sherry is often added, but it is no in^KOvement 
to the cocktail. 

Clam and Oyster Cocktails 

Clams and oysters for ser^dce in cocktails should be 
exceedingly fresh, small, carefully washed, dried and 
chilled; five or six of each constitute one service. Dispose 
on cracked ice on oyster plates with a small g^aas in the 
center of the plate holding about two tablespooofids of 



APP8TIZKBS 3 

tomato catsup. Additional seasoning, as onion jmce, 
tabasco sauce, paprika, etc., may be added to the catsup 
if desired. Chilled quarters of small hot-house tomatoes, 
bits of lobster, parboiled or raw scallops, choice pieces of 
finnan haddie, etc. are also used in cocktails. 

Oyster Cocktail Sauce^ September Style 

Chop a red and a green pepper exceedingly fine; add 
to tomato catsup with a scraping of new onion. Thequan* 
tity of catsup used with the peppers will depend on indi- 
vidual taste. This sauce is good with lobster, scallops 
or fresh tomatoes. 

Crabflake Cocktail in Green Pepper Cops 

Cut green peppers of small size to form cups, discarding 
the seeds and the white portion on which the seeds grow. 
Season tomato catsup to suit the taste and turn two or 
three tablespoonfuls into each pepper. Set the peppers 
in the center of individual plates, aroimd them dispose 
foiur or five small heart-leaves of lettuce, and on each leaf 
set two choice crab flakes. 

Celery Relish 

Cut tender heart-stalks of celery into pieces about two 
inches long. Let crisp in ice water to which a lemon rind 
or a tablespoonf ul of vinegar has been added. Pick the 
fillets from three anchovies, fine, with a silver fork (if put 
up in salt, freshen in cold water); mix the anchovies with 
the sifted yolks and the chopped whites of two hard-cooked 
eggs; stir in enough mayonnaise dressing to hold the in- 
gredients together. Wipe the celery dry and use as a re- 
ceptacle for the mixture. 



4 HYAL COOKBOt^ 

Sardine Canapes, No. x 

Spread lengthwise bits of bread with butter and let 
brown in a hot oven. When cold spread with sardine 
fillets, poimded with^an equal measure of butter and sea- 
soned with salt, paprika and a few grams of mustard or 
curry. Set half a choice sardine, freed of sldn and bones, 
in the center of the paste. Decorate the comers with 
capers, spread mayonnaise mixed with chopped olives, 
parsley and chives over the fillets of fish and let chill 
thoroughly. Serve as a first course at luncheon or dinner. 

Sardine Canap6S| No. 2 

Cream one-fourth a cup of butter; beat into it a canned 
pimiento, wiashed, dried and chopped fine, half a cup of 
flaked sardines, a teaspoonful of grated onion, and cream 
to make it moist; press through a sieve. Pipe on to the 
edge of triangles or fingers of toasted-and-cooled bread. 
Set half a sardine down the center; fill one side with 
chopped white or sifted yolk of egg, and the other with 
chopped pickled beets. 

Sardine Roulettes 

8 sardines 1 eg};; yolk, cooked 

2 tablespoonf Ills butter 1 tablespoonf id mayonnaise 

10 drops onion juice Thin slices hot brown bread 

}^ a chilli pepper, chopped Hard-cooked yolk of egg off 

1 tablespoonful diopped parsley Lobster coral 

Wipe the oil from the sardines, remove the fillets, and 
to them add the butter, onion juice, pepper, parsley and 
egg yolk, and pound the whole to a smooth paste; add 
the mayonnaise and mix thoroughly. Remove the outside 
or crust trom a brick-shaped loaf of hot brown bread (the 
bread may be made hot by resteaming). Spread the slices 
lightly with the sardine mixture, and as soon as a slice is 
spread roll it like a jelly-roll. Set them side by side on a 



APPsnzsBs 5 

serving dish and sift the yolk of ^gg or lobster coral over 
the top. 

Anchovy Medallions 

Prepare rounds of cold boiled potatoes, a trifle larger 
than a silver dollar; spread with anchovy butter, set a 
row of fine-chopped, cooked, white of egg on the edge, and 
a row of sifted yolk inside with caviare in the center. Serve 
each on a heart-leaf of lettuce. Oyster forks are provided 
for eating these. 

Anchovy Canapes 

Prepare diamondnshaped pieces of bread two and one 
half inches by one and one half inches; spread with 
butter and let brown in the oven. When cool spread with 
anchovy butter, press a slice of hard-cooked egg in the 
center of each shape, and pipe anchovy butter around 
the egg, to fill the space to the edge; pipe a. star of the 
paste on the center of the yolk. To prepare the paste, 
freshen a dozen anchovies, if salt, in milk, then wipe dry. 
If the anchovies are put up in oil rather than salt, wipe 
free of oil. Remove Hie fillets from the bones, pound them 
smooth, add half a cup (four oimces) of butter and pound 
agabi, then press through a sieve. Red herrings or 
smoked sahnon may replace the anchovy. Anchovy paste 
may be ^beaten into creamed butter, and simplifies the 
preparation of the dish. The paste put up by Crosse 
and Blackwell of London comes m small jars. 

Anchovy-^and-Egg Canapes 

Roll trimmings of puff-paste, left after cutting out pat- 
ties or a vol-au-vent, to a little less than one-fomrth an 
inch in thickness, and stamp out with a sharp cutter, 
dipped in boiling water, into diamond or other shapes. 
ChUl and bake till done. Beat one-third a cup of butter 
to a cream and gradually beat in enough anchovy paste 



6 KYfiLOmcBOiX 

to tint and flavor as desired. When the puff-paste shapes 
are chilled, spread slightly with the paste, set a slice of 
hard-cooked egg in the center of each, and pipe paste on 
the edge of the "crust;" finish with a figure, cut from a 
slice of truffle or pickled beet, at the center of the egg, and 
fine-chopped truffle or beet in the open spaces. If truffle 
be used, dip the slices of egg in French dressing before 
setting them in place. 

Pimiento Canap€s 

Rinse half a cup of pimientos in cold water, and dry on a 
cloth; then pound smooth, add half a cup of butter and 
again pound till the whole is smooth, then use to spread on 
small shapes of toasted or fried bread. Set a slice of hard- 
cooked egg in the center of each bit of bread and a figure 
cut from a slice of truffle in the center of the yolk. 

Horseradish Canapes 

Grate one-fourth a cup of horseradish, pound with half 
a cup of butter, and press through a fine sieve. Use this 
butter to spread rectangular-shaped pieces of prepared 
bread. Cover the butter with alternate strips of smoked 
salmon, caviare and herring. 

Caviarei Mobile Style 

Select a very small hot-house tomato for each service; 
peel carefully and take out a small piece from the center of 
each and set aside to chill thoroughly. When ready to 
serve, set each tomato on a heart-leaf of lettuce, sprinkle 
in a little salt and paprika and about five drops of onion 
juice. Fill with a teaspoonful of caviare, rounding it up 
above the tomato; sprinkle with about one-fourth a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice. Serve small Boston brown-bread 
sandwiches and olives with this dish. 



▲PPBTIZBBS 7 

Staffed Eggs 

Covar as many eggs as are needed to provide haU an 
egg for each service with boiling water, cover the didi and 
let stand without boiling twenty minutes. Heat quickly to 
the boiling point; at once drain and cover with cold water; 
remove the shells. Cut the eggs in halves, crosswise, and 
remove the yolks. Cut the yolks into small cubes; add 
cubes of cooked (^cken, ham and pickled beet, also a few 
capers. Season with salt, paprika, one-fourth a tea- 
spoonful of curry powder or mustard, also olive oil and 
vinegar. Let stand to chill, then drain and mix with just 
enough mayonnaise to hold the ingredients together. Cut 
a slice from the egg-cups, that they may stand level. Set 
them on small plates with two or three very small lettuce 
leaves around them, fill high with the mixtiu^ and serve 
at once. 

Chaisdfroid of Poached Eggs 

Cook fresh-laid ^gs by steaming them in round shal- 
low cups or by poaching them directly m water just below 
the boiling point. For five ^gs make a cup of chaudfroid 
sauce and a cup of aspic jelly. Cover the eggs, chilled and 
set on a plate or board, with the sauce, decorate with 
small figures cut from thin slices of truffle, then cover the 
whole with aspic just on the point of " setting.'' In the 
center of a serving dish set a lemon cut in lengthwise 
eighths, and surround with the eggs and thick slices of 
tomato cut in quarters and each holding a roimding tear 
spoonful of mayonnaise; at equal intervals, near the edge, 
set choice olives (trim the stem end that they may stand 
level) and fill in with lettuce shredded in narrow ribbons. 
Serve as a first course at luncheon or dumer. An egg, a 
piece of tomato, an olive, a little lettuce and a section of 
lemon constitute one service. These may be served on 
individual plates or passed on a large dish. 



S MYfiLCOOKBOOK 

Chaudfroid Sauce 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter; in it cook two table- 
spoonfuls of flour and one-fourth a teaspoonful, each^ of 
salt and pepper; add one cup of rich chicken broth, thin 
cream, rich milk or tomato pur^; stir xmtil boiling; add 
one-fourth a package of gelatine softened in one-fourth a 
cup of cold water, stir imtil the gelatine is melted, t}ien let 
cool and use as directed on the preceding page. 

Sardine £clairs 

^ cup butter 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

}i cup boiling water 2 hard-cooked egg yoUos 

^ cup flour Seasoning to taste 

1 egg and 1 yolk ^ cup Whipped cream (aoaiiQ .' 

yi cup sardine fillets 

Brown Ghaudfroid Sauce 

Figures cut from truffles and white of egg 
Aspic jelly 

Melt the butter in the water over the fire; when again 
boiling, stir in the flour, and continue to stir until the mix- 
ture forms a smooth mass in the center of the saucepan; 
turn into a bowl ; beat in the yolk, then the whole egg. With 
a bag fitted with tube of small opening (half inch or less) 
press the paste on to buttered baking pans in strips about 
two and one-half inches long and three-fourths an inch 
wide. Bake in an oven, with strong heat below, about 
eighteen minutes. When done, a cake will feel light when 
lifted in the hand. When cold, open the cakes on one ade 
and fill with the sardine mixture; cover the flat side of 
each Eclair neatly with chaudfroid sauce; set the bits of 
trufile and cooked white of egg above; and pour over a 
little half-set aspic jelly. Chill thorou^y. To make the 
filling, pound the sardine fillets, butter, e^ yolks and 
seasonings with a pestle, press throu^ a sieve, then fold 



OtSTER COCKTAIL. PoBtS 



ANCHOVT-AND-EGQ CANAr£s. Poets 



CBAUDrRom c 



SARDINE CANAPES. Past i 



i PEPPER OPEN-SI 
« HALVES. Fagttt 



▲PPiBSTIZEBS 

in the cream. To make the chaudfroid sauce, dissolve a 
tablespoon! ul of gelatine, softened in (me-f ourth a cup of 
water, in one cup of hot brown (white or tomato sauce 
may also be used) sauce and use when chilled and begin- 
ning to set. 
Anchovies may be used in place of sardines. 

Aspic Jelly for Poached Eggs 

Soften one-fourth a package of gelatine in one-fourth a 
cup of cold water, then dissolve in one cup of clarified and 
highly seasoned chicken broth. 

Deviled Crackers 

To two teaspoonfuls of mustard add Worcestershire 
sauce to form a paste; stur this paste into three tablespoon- 
fuls of butter beaten to a cream; add also half a teaspoon- 
ful of paprika or half that quantity of cayenne. Spread 
the mixture on thin crackers and set the crackers into the 
oven to become hot and colored slightly. Serve hot with 
celery, cheese, olives or tomato soup. 

Deviled Almonds 

Blanch two ounces of almonds and, at once, cut into 
shreds; saut6 a light brown in clarified butter or in olive 
oil or let brown in the oven; add half a tablespoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce, half a tablespoonful of chutney, one 
gherkin, cut in shreds, and a few grains of cayenne, mix 
thoroughly and serve on rounds or ovals of toasted or 
fried bread. If toast be used, butter it while hot. Serve 
as an appetizer at the beginning of meal or as a ^' bonne 
bouche " at the close. 



CHAPTER n 

SOUPS 

The juice of fish, poultry and meat, which is the foun- 
dation of many soups, is drawn out best in cold water, 
slowly heated to the boiling point; the cooking should 
be completed at a gentle simmer. 

From half to a full hour is needed to produce fish broth 
or stock. 

Six to seven hours is needed to produce stock from beef, 
veal, etc. 

Stock from left-over bones, roasts, etc., may be made 
in three hours or less. 

Twenty minutes to half an hour is needed to extract 
the flavor of the vegetables and herbs added to soup. 
One pound of meat and bone to one pint of water gives a 
rich broth. 

Stock keeps better without vegetables; vegetable 
juices soiur quickly. 

To remove a small portion of fat from hot stock, use 
blotting or tissue paper freely. 

To remove small particles of fat from cold stock, use 
a piece of cheese-cloth wrung out of hot water. 

Soups made of broth are sometimes clarified. Con- 
8omm6 is usually served clear and sparkling as wme. 

To clarify a broth, allow for each two quarts of broth 
the whites of three eggs and as many fresh-broken shells 
as are convenient. Beat the whites until well broken up, 
crush the shells and mix thoroughly with the cold broth; 
add salt, the thin yellow rind of a lemon or any additional 
seasoning desired; set over the fire and stir constantly 



80XJPS 11 

until the boiling point is reached; let boil five minutes, 
then set to a cooler part of the range to ^'settle"; skim, 
strain through a napkin, wrung out of hot water and laid 
over a strainer. Reheat the soup before serving. 

Meat broths are sometimes used in Cream soups, but 
sucfi soups are more often made without them; the foim- 
dation is a cream sauce and a pur^ of the vegetable or 
article from which the soup is named. 

When maJdng cream soups, combine the cream sauce 
and the piur^ at the last moment before serving. Do 
not boil after the combination has been made. ^ 

A cream soup should be creamy, but not too thick. 

Formula for Three Pints of Standard Brotti 

(beef, veal, CBICKEN, MUTTON OB GAME) 

4 pounds meat (one-fourth bone) 4 doves 

4 pints cold water 1^ teaspoonfuls sweet herbs (mar- 

1^ teaspoonfuls salt joram, thyme, etc.) 

10 or 12 pepper corns, }4 sweet pep- lyi tablespoonf uls, each« ^ carrot, 
per, or 1 sprig parsley onion, celery 

Saut^ part of the meat in marrow or drippings (the 
best marrow is foimd in the hind shin), slowly and care- 
fully, to avoid burning the meat. Meantime, let the rest 
of the meat, cut in small cubes, soak in cold water. 

After the sauted meat has been added to the soup kettle, 
let the frying pan stand in a warm place, partly filled 
with liquid from the soup kettle and thus insure melting 
from the pan all the browned material that is to ^ve 
color to the soup. Saut£ the vegetables about half an hour 
before the stock is cooked and add to the kettle with the 
other seasoning. Rinse out the pan and add as before to 
the soup kettle. When cooked, strain and set aside to 
cool. If a large quantity of stock be prepared, stram into 
several dishes, each holding the quantity needed for a 
meal, and narrow rather than flat, that there may be fat 



12 ^ KYAL COOICBOCK 

enough to form a covering for each. When finished 
there should be four pints of soup. 

White soup stock is made without browning any of the 
meat or vegetables. 

Clam Bouillon 

Scrub a peck of clams very thoroughly. Put them in a 
large kettle with a quart of water, cover close, and let cook 
until the shells are well opened. Drain the broth from the 
shells and from the kettle. Let cool a little, then for each 
two quarts of broth beat the whites of three eggs slightly, 
and add with the crushed shells of the eggs to the tMrotho 
Set the saucepan over the fire, and stir constantly until 
the broth boils. Let boil about five minutes, then add 
half a cup of cold water, and draw to a cooler place on the 
range. After ten minutes strain through a doubled fold 
of cheese-cloth laid over a colander. Reheat before 
serving. 

Clam Brofh, Chantilly Style 

This most refreshing broth may b» iRerved hot or cold. 
Canned broth may be used, or, when fresh clams are 
obtainable, the broth may be fresh-made from either clams 
in bulk or in the shells. For clams in bulk, to serve eight, 
take one quart of fresh-opened clams, two stalks of cel- 
ery, broken in pieces, and one quart of cold water. Bring 
the whole slowly to the boiling point, and let boil five 
minutes. Skim carefully as soon as the boiling point is 
reached. Strain through a napkin wrung out of boiling 
water. Season with salt, if needed; add also a little 
paprika or other pepper. Beat one cup of double cream 
until firm throughout. Set a tablespoonful of the cream 
on the top of the broth in each cup. 

Half chicken broth and half clam broth is preferred by 
many. To secure the broth from clams in the shell use 



SOX7P8 13 

a scant quart of oold water to half a peck of well-scrubbed 
clams. Put the clams over the fire with the water and let 
cook and steam until all are opened. 

Tomato Soup 

Cook half a can of tomatoes, two slices of onion, two 
branches of parsley, a chilli pepper, four slices of carrot 
and half a teaspoonful of spiced herbs, tied in a bit of 
cheese-cloth, twenty minutes. Strain through a sieve fine 
enough to keep back the seeds. To the pulp add five or 
six cups of broth — labib, beef or veal — and salt as 
needed. Let boil thoroughly, skim, if needed, and serve. 
Boiling water with beef extract may replace the meat 
broth. 

Economical Rice Soup 

To one pint of liquid, draoxed from boiled rice, add one 
cup of tomato pur^e and one cup of broth. Chicken broth 
is the best, but any broth will answer. If not already 
flavored, cook half an onion and two stalks of celery, cut 
fine, in two or three tablespoonf uls of butter until lightly 
browned; add the tomato and broth and let simmer ten 
minutes, then strain into the rice. 

Pur^e of Tomato, Julienne 

2 oimoes raw, lean ham Uncooked giblets 

1 onion, in thin slices 2 quarts water 

2 small new carrots, in slices 1 quart tomatoes 
y^ green pepper, sliced yi cup flour 

2 branches parsley 2 stalks celery 

2 or 3 tablespoonf uls fat 1 onion 

Bones from roast fowl or veal 1 carrot 

Skinned chicken feet 1 cup string beans 

Cook the ham, chopped fine, the onion, carrot, green 
pepper and parsley in the fat (fat taken from the top of a 
pan of soup is good) until softened somewhat; add the 
feeti giblets and bones with the water and tomatoes. 



14 MYALCOMBOOK 

Let simmer an hour and a half; strain through a fine 
sieve, pressfaig through the pulp of the tomatoes, but no 
seeds. Reheat, stir in the flour smoothed in a little cold 
water and let boil ten minutes. When the soup is first 
set over the fire, cook the celery, onion, carrot and string 
beans cut in Julienne shreds, separately, until tender. 
Add to the soup before serving. 

Consomm^i with Poached Eggs 

Pirepare consomm^ with beef, veal and a fowl, and clarify 
in the usual manner. YThen ready to serve, set a carefully 
poached, fresh egg in each plate of soup. Or, carefully 
drain off the white from each egg, when breaking it, and 
drop the yolks in boiling water, and let cook just below 
the boiling point until firm throughout. Do not hurry 
the cooking, as the yolk should be cooked gently tmtil 
crumbly and mealy throughout. Use the whites for some 
other dish. Serve one yolk in a plate of soup. 

Jellied Bouillon (Two Quarts) 

Have about four pounds of beef from the hind shin; cut 
it into small pieces; melt the marrow from the bone in a 
frying pan; in it cook part of the bits of meat until nicely 
browned. Put the bone and the rest of the bits of meat 
into a soup kettle and add five pints of cold water. When 
the meat is browned, add it to the soup kettle. Put a 
cup or more of the water from the soup kettle into the 
frying pan; let stand to dissolve the glaze in the pan, then 
return to the soup kettle. CJover and let simmer four or 
five hours; add half a cup, each, of sliced onion and carrot, 
one or two branches of parsley, one or two stalks of celery 
and let cook an hour longer. Strain off the broth and set 
it aside, first, if necessary, adding boilmg water to make 
two quarts of broth. Add, also, two teaspoonfuls of salt. 



S0T7PS 15 

half a teaspoonful of pepper and an ounce of gelatine 
softened in half a cup of cold water. When cold and set re- 
move the fat; breiJc up the jelly with a spoon or silver 
fork; serve in bouillon cups. After removing all the fat 
possible with a spoon, wipe the jelly with a cloth wrung out 
of hot water to take up any particles of fat that may 
remain. 

Lamb-and-Tomato Soup 

1 quart lamb broth H green pepper in alioes 

1 pint tomatoes ^ Salt as needed 

1 onion, cut in slices 1 table^>ooiif ul oomstarch or po- 

yi carrot cut in slices tato flour 

Cook the tomatoes and vegetables twenty minutes, 
press through a sieve; add to the broth, heat to boiling 
point; stir in the cornstarch or potato flour smoothed in 
water; let boil fifteen minutes; skimi and the soup is 
ready to serve. 

Tapioca Soup 

Heat two quarts and a half of consomm^ to the boiling 
pomt; graduaUy sprinkle in one-third a cup of any quick- 
cooking tapioca, stirring constantly meanwhile, and con- 
tinue to stir until boiling vigorously throughout; then let 
cook over boiling water half an hour, stirring occasionally. 
YThen the soup is done, the tapioca is not visibleinthe soup> 
which it has slightly thickened. 

Celery Soup 

Cook one pint of tomatoes, one cup and a half of celery 
leaves and coarse stalks, a large onion cut in slices, and 
three or four cloves, a bit of bay leaf or blade of mace tied 
in two parsley branches, half an hour, r Ftess the vege« 
tables throu^ a sieve, add two quarts of broth and let 
staad until boiling; then stir in two level teaspoonfuls of 
potato flour, stirred to a smooth consistency with half a 



16 KVALCOOKBOOK 

cup of broth or water. Let sinimer fifteen minutes. 
Broth made of fresh meat is the best, but that made from 
the framework and renmants of roast poultry, with a 
little fresh meat, makes a most palatable soup. 

Pdtage & PAurore 

J^ cop oatmeal 3 sprigs parsley 

3 cups water 1 teaspoonf ul salt 

1 quart l»oth J^ cup thick tomato purfe 

}^ onion }^ teaspoonf ul paprika 

1 stalk oeleiy 

Simmer the oatmeal, water and broth about two hours; 
add the onion, celery and parsley, cut fine, and let cook 
half an hour; add the seasonings and pur6e, let boil once, 
then strain through a fine sieve. Dilute with water or 
broth to the desired consistency. 



Onion Soap au Giatin or Onion Soup in Petites 

Mannites 

Melt half a cup of butter; in it cook four large white 
onions, sliced fine; stir and cook the onions until they are 
softened and yellowed, then add three or four sprigs of 
parsley, two quarts of rich beef broth and a pint of water, 
and let simmer twenty minutes. Have ready eight pefifes 
marmiUB; into each of these put three roimd slices of 
French bread, freed from crust, browned in the oven, 
or toasted, and then sprinkled with grated Parmesan 
cheese. Strain the soup over the toast, which will rise 
to the top of the marmUes; again sprinkle the toast 
with grated cheese and set the marmUes into the oven, 
to melt the cheese and brown it slightly. The soup is 
now ready to send to the table in the little vessels. If 
preferred, pick out the parsley and leave the onion in the 
soup. 



SOUPS 17 

Uma Bean Soup (To Serve Five or Six) 

Cover one cup of dried lima beans with cold water and 
let stand overnight; drain, rinse in water and set to cook 
in about a quart of cold water. Let cook until tender, 
adding water as needed, to avoid burning. When the 
beans are partly cooked, slice a small onion and let it cook 
in three or four tablespoonfuls of fat, taken from the top 
of a dish of soup stock, until softened and yellowed a littlCi 
then add to the beans. Press the cooked beans through a 
sieve — a gravy strainer set in one piece of a double boiler 
and a wooden pestle are the best utensils for the purpose. 
There will be about a pint of pur^. Melt one-fourth a 
cup of butter; in it cook one-fourth a cup of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of salt and half a teaspoonf ul of pepper, then add 
the purfe and stir until boiling. Finish with three or four 
cups of " second broth " — broth made from remnants 
of roasts, steaks, etc. The neck, feet and giblets of a 
fowl give a good flavor to such broth. Milk may be used 
in place of the broth, when Cream of lima Bean Soup 
results. The broth should be, when made, flavored with 
soup vegetables and herbs. 

Delicate Cream of Celeiy Soup 

Break three stalks of celery in inch-pieces and pound 
in a mortar. Cook twenty minutes in a double boiler with 
three cups of milk and a slice of onion. Thicken with three 
tablespoonfuls, each, of butter and flomr cooked together. 
Season with salt and pepper. Then strain, and just before 
serving add one cup of cream. 

Simple Tomato Bisque (S019) 

^/Scald one quart of milk with a stalk of celery and two 
slices of onion. Press enough cooked tomatoes through a 



18 jiMUL COOK bom: 

sieve to make one pint; add half a teaspoonful of salt and 
pepper as desired. Stir one-third a cup of flour and a tea- 
spoonful of salt with milk to make a smooth batter; 
dilute with a little of the hot milk, stir imtil smooth, then 
etir into the rest of the hot milk. Continue stirring until 
smooth and thick; cover and let cook fifteen minutes. 
Strain into the hot pur6e, mix thoroughly and serve at 
once with croutons. 

Cream of String Bean Soup 

Chop or pound cold, cooked string beans, then press 
through a sieve. A gravy strainer set into one part of a 
double boiler and a wooden pestle are needed for this 
process. About one cup and a half of pur6e are needed for 
a soup to serve seven or eight people. Let one quart of 
milk scald with three slices of onion and three branches 
of parsley. Melt one-fourth a cup of butter; in it cook 
one-fourth a cup of flour, one teaspoonful of salt and half 
a teaspoonful of paprika; add the pur6e and stir until 
boiling. When ready to sierve strain the milk over the 
pur^, mix thoroughly and serve at once. Other vegeta- 
bles, as asparagus, peas, tomatoes, spinach, onions, etc., 
may be substituted for the string beans. 

Cream of Lobster Soup 

Put the body bones of two lobsters and one pound of 
fresh fish bones in a saucepan; add half a carrot, cut in 
slices, a small onion in which three cloves have been 
pressedi two or three branches of parsley, two stalks of 
celery or a teaspoonful of celery seed, and two quarts of 
cold water over the fire. Let simmer half an hour, then 
strain through a sieve and afterwards through a cheese- 
cloth. Melt one-fourth a cup of butter; in it cook half a 
cup of flour« half a teaspoonful of paprikaand one teaspoon- 



SOUPS 19 

ful of salt; add a little of the broth (cooled to lukewarm), 
and stir until boiling; add the rest of the broth and let 
dmmer tea minutes. Finish with the yolks of three eggs, 
beaten and diluted with half a cup, each, of milk and 
cream. Stir constantly, but without boilingi till the egg 
is set. 

Eomlet Soup 

In a double boiler, set to cook one quart of milki one cup 
of Eomlet, half an onion with four or five cloves pressed 
into it, three branches of parsley and half a teaspoonful 
of paprika. When hot stir in two tablespoonf uls of flouri 
smoothed in a little milk; stir constantly a few minutes, 
then cover and let cook twenty minutes; remove the onion 
and parsley and press the remainder through a fine deve. 
In the meantime, cook two cups of tomato and a teaspoon- 
ful of sugar and press through a sieve. When ready to 
serve, add salt as needed, iX3ur the two mixtures together, 
and serve in cups mth a tablespoonf ul of whipped cream 
on top of each portion. 

Cream of Potato Soup 

Put two potatoes, half an onion, and a stalk of celery 
over a quick fire in cold water to cover. Let boil five min- 
utes, drain, and re-cover with boiling water. When tender, 
press the potatoes through a sieve together with the water 
in which they were cooked. (There should be about a pint 
of water and potato.) Add to this two cups of white sauce, 
also milk, or white stock, to make of the consistency de- 
sired. Bemove from the fire, and stir in the beaten yolk of 
an egg, diluted with about one-fourth a cup of cream. Pour 
into the tiureen, and Crinkle with a tablespoonful of fine- 
chopped parsley. Half a tablespoonful of celery seed or a 
teaspoonful of celery salt may take the place of the fresh 
celery. 



20 KlOiLCQOKBOM 

Cream of Asparagus Soap 

Cut the tips (an inch m length) from a package of as- 
paragus. C!ook these ui salted, boiling water to cover 
until just tender. Skim from the water and reserve to 
serve in the soup plates. Cook the rest of the bunch of 
asparagus, two thick slices of onion with a clove in each, 
six slices of carrot and two branches of parsley in the as- 
paragus broth with a quart of white stock (chicken or 
veal) until the asparagus is tender; take out the onion 
and carrot and press the asparagus through a sieve. Use 
a pestle and a gravy strainer with the part of a double 
boiler into which the strainer fits. Make a white sauce of 
one-fourth a cup, each, of butter and flour, half a teaspoon- 
ful, each, of salt and black pepper and three cups of milk. 
When ready to serve add the asparagus mixture and one 
cup of cream. Stir while making very hot, but do not let 
boil. Add the asparagus tips to the plates when serving. 

Cream of Salsify Soup 

Cook the (falsify in the usual manner. Half an onion, a 
stalk of celery and two branches of parsley may be cooked 
with the salsify if desired. Drain the salsify and press it 
through a sieve. For one cup of purte prepare one pint of 
cream sauce (one-fourth a cup, each, of butter and flour, 
half a teaspoonful, each, of salt and pepper and two cups 
of milk); add the pur6e, one pint of milk or white broth 
and such additional seasoning as needed. 

Cream of Qyster Soup 

1 quart milk 1 cup oold water 
yi small onkm 1 quart oysters 

2 sprigs parsley 1 teaspoonful salt 

2 tmndws cdbly \i teaspoonful pepper 

M cup butter 1 taUespoonf ul butter 

H cup flour 



SOUPS 21 

Scald (over hot water) the milk with the onion, parsley 
and celery. Stir in the butter and flour creamed together 
and let cook about twenty minutes. Remove the vege- 
tables. Pour the cold water over the oysters and look at 
each carefully to remove bits of shell, if present. Strain the 
liquid through cheese-cloth, scald, skim and add the 
oysters; heat quickly to the boiling point; add the 
\ thickened milk and the seasonings, and then stir in the 
butter in small pieces. 

Cream of Cauliflower Soup 

1 quart milk ^ cup butter 

1 small onion -^ cup flour 

3 branches parsley 1 teaspoon! ul salt 

1 small cauMflower H teaspoonful pepper u. 

Scald the milk with the onion and parsley. Cook the 
cauliflower in boiling water or white broth until tender. 
Beserve a floweret of cauliflower for each plate of soup and 
press the rest through a sieve. Melt the butter; in it cook 
the flour with the seasonings, add the pur^ and broth and 
stir until boiling; strain in the milk; add more salt and 
pepper as needed. For a more nutritious soup, add with- 
out boiling two or three yolks of eggSi beaten and mixed 
with half to a full cup of cream. 

« 

Bisque of Clams and Green Peas 

1 or 2 ounces salt pork 1 pint duns 
Ismail onion 1 pint boiling water 

2 new carrots }% cup butter 
1 branch celery j^ cup flour 

1 pint mem peas 1 quart milk 

2 brandies parsley 1 cup cream 

1 pint boiling water Salt and pepper 

CHit the pork in bits, cook in a saucepan until the fat is 
well-tried out, but not in the least browned ; add the onion, 
carrot and celery, cut in slices, stir and cook until softened 
a little; add the peas, parsley and water and let cook till 



22 K)aULQOOKBaOK 

the peas are tender, then press through a ffleve. CSookthe 
dams m a pint of water five minutes, drain the liquid into 
the pea purge, chop the clams and add to the other ingre- 
dients. Cook the flour in the butter, add the milk and stir 
until boiling; add to the other ingredients, with the 
cream and salt and pepper. 

Eomlet Chowder 

Cut two slices of fat salt pork in tiny cubes (there should 
be about one-fourth a cup) ; let these cook in a saucepan 
until they are Ught-colored and the fat is drawn out; skim 
out the bits of pork, add half a small onion, cut in thin 
shreds, and let cook imtil yellowed; add three cups of 
boiling water and let sunmer five minutes; then strain 
over a cup of potatoes, cut in slices, parboiled five minutes 
and drained. Let cook imtil the potatoes are tender; add 
a can of komlet, a teaspoonf ul of salt, half a teaQ>oonful of 
black pepper, and two cups of milk. Let boil two minutes. 
Serve with browned crackers. 

Clam Chowder 

Add a cup of cold water to a solid quart of clams. Pick 
over carefully, rinsing in the water and removing bits of 
shell. Strain the water and clam liquor through two 
folds of cheese-cloth. Heat to the boiling point and in 
it scald the clams. Skim out the clams and keep them hot. 
Try-out the fat from a thin slice of salt pork, cut in bits, 
and in it cook a small onion cut in thin slices, without 
browning the onion. Add one-third a cup of flour. Cook 
until frothy, then gradually add the clam liquor, and, 
when the mixturo boils, strain it over one pint of sliced 
potatoes, parboiled five minutes and blanched by rinsing 
in cold water. Add a teaspoonful of salt and half a tea- 
spoonful of pepper. When the potatoes aro tender, add 



80X7PS 23 

three cups of scalded milk (part cream is preferable) and 
the clams and additional seasoning if needed. 

Clam Chowder, No. 2 

4 ounces larding pork 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

2 quarts boiling water 1 teaspoonf ul pepper 
1 cup thin slices carrot }^ can tomatoes 

1 cup thin slices onion 1 quart chopped dams 

^ cup thin slices celery H teaspoonf ul powdered thyme 

3 cups thin slices potato 1 teaspoonf ul beef extract 

Cut the pork in bits and cook until the fat is drawn 
out. Skim out the bits or leave them in as is desired; add 
the water^ carrot, onion and celery and cook until the 
vegetables are nearly tender; add the potatoes, seasoning 
and tomatoes and let cook until the potatoes are tender; 
add the clams, th3ane and extract, and if desired two 
tablespoonfuls of flour cooked in the same quantity of 
butter. Stir until boiling. _ Sprinkle with fine-chopped 
parsley. 



CHAPTER m 

EGGS 

She who understands the difference between a ''hard* 
cooked '^ and a hard-boiled egg, and why a baked rather 
than a boiled potato is preferable for children and invar 
lids has found the keynote to all cookery. 

Eggs Cooked in the Shell 

Select a granite ware saucepan holding a generous 
quart. In it heat one quart of water to the boiling point, 
remove the saucepan from the fire, and lower an egg into 
it, cover closely and let it stand six minutes, for soft- 
cooked, and eight mmutes for medium-cooked eggs. 
With two eggs let stand eight minutes for soft-cooked, 
ten minutes for medium-cooked. To use in garnishing, 
for salads or to cut in slices for any purpose, after ten 
minutes, reheat the water to the boiling point, let boil 
thirty seconds (to harden the outside) then cool in cold 
water. Without the final short boiling the egg is not 
shelled or cut in good shape. 

Poached Eggs 

Pour boiling water into an iron frying pan and add 
about a teaspoonful of salt; break in one or more strictly 
fresh eggs. Add mote water, if necessary, that the egg? 
may be covered. Do not allow the water to boil during 
the cooking. As soon as an e^ seems ''set" on the 
bottom, run a spatula beneath it, that it may float in 
the water. As soon as an egg is slightly coagulated 



EQGS 25 

throughout, remove it with a skimmer to a slice of toast 
or broiled ham. Serve at once. 

Shirred Eggs 

Take as many tablespoonfuls, each, of sifted bread 
crumbs (soft) and chopped chicken, veal or ham as there 
are persons to serve. Mix the meat and crumbs to a bat- 
ter with cream. Season with salt and pepper. Butter 
small egg-shirrers; spread a spoonful of the batter over 
the bottom of each dish, break in a fresh egg and pour 
over a generous spoonful of the batter. Let cook in a 
moderate oven until the egg is set. 

Poached Eggs k la Benedict 

Split some large English muffins and toast them a 
golden brown; on each half set a roimd thin sUce of 
carefully broiled ham, above the ham set a poached egg, 
over the whole pour 

HoIIandaise Satsce 

For four poached eggs beat one-fourth a cup of butter 
to a cream, add two yolks one after another and beat each 
in thoroughly; add one-fourth a teaspoonful each of 
salt and paprika and one-third a cup of boiling water; 
cook over hot water, stbrmg constantly untU thickened 
slightly; add the juice of half a small lemon and serve 
at once. Too long cooking will cause the sauce to curdle. 

Eggs, Canada Style 

Select round fresh tomatoes; cut out a juece around 
the stem end of each, and remove enough of the seeds 
and pulp to make an opening to hold an e^. Season 
the inside of the tomatoes with salt and pepper; break 



26 XYfiL come BOOK 

an egg in each. Set the tomatoes in an earthen baking 
dish; pour a tablespoonful of white sauce over the egg 
in each tomato. Bake in a very moderate oven about 
fifteen minutes. Pour a cup of hot white sauce around 
the tomatoes in the dish and serve at once. 

One Cup White Sauce 

2 tablespoonf Ills butter \i teaspoonf ul pepi)er 

2 tablespoonf uls flour 1 cup milk or 

\i teaspoonf ul salt 1 cup white stock 

Eggs Baked in Potato Nests 

For each nest allow a potato of medium size. Pare the 
potatoes, let stand some hours in cold water, drain and 
set to cook in boiling salted water. When tender, drain 
and mash. Add salt, hot milk, one or two teaspoonfuls 
of butter and beat imtil very white and fluflfy. On a 
buttered baking sheet form thin, small roimds of potato 
(the potato may be spread on rounds of waxed paper as an 
easy means of handling the nests); on these rounds pipe 
potato to make nests deep enough to hold an egg, broken 
into them. Sprinkle the inside of the nests quite gener- 
ously with fine-chopped, cooked ham, then break in the 
eggs. Beat the yolk of an egg; add a tablespoonful or 
more of milk and use to brush over the edges of potato. 
Set the baking sheet into the oven to cook the eggs and 
brown the edges of the potato. A tablespoonful of Be- 
chamel or brown sauce may be poured over the egg before 
serving. The nests may also be shaped on individual 
earthen ramekins, and sent to the table in them. 

Poached Eggs, ^tfa Spinach 

Chop, fine, cooked spinach. For a pint of well-drained 
spinach make three-foiu*ths a cup of cream sauce; stir 
the spinach into the sauce. Do not have the spinach too 



EGOS 27 

moist. Season as needed with gait aind pepper. Dispose 
the spinach in flat rounds on individual plates. Set a 
poached egg above each roimd. Surroimd with a string 
of sauce made of chicken or veal broth. 

Poached Eggs, '* Times Square '' or New Tork Style 

Mix small cubes of cooked chicken breast, fresh mush- 
rooms and pimientos with a little Momay Sauce. Spread 
a thin layer on the bottom of individual earthen au gratin 
dishes, set a poached egg above, cover with Momay Sauce 
mixed with tomato pin*^ and a dash of paprika. Sprinkle 
with grated Swiss and Parmesan cheese. Set into a hot 
oven for an instant. Serve at once. 

Momay Sauce 

Make a sauce of three tablespoonfuls, each, of butter 
and flour, scant half a teaspoonf ul, each, of salt and pepper, 
and one cup and a half of consomm6, chicken or veal broth. 
Add one-fourth a cup, each, of grated Gruy^e and Par- 
mesan cheese, and stir until melted. 

Eggs k la Dauphine 

Set two small slices of toasted bread, well-buttered, 
on a serving dish; above dispose about eighteen hot, 
cooked aspar^us tips; above the tips set two poached 
eggs. Pom: over the whole a scant cup of Madeira sauce, 
in which six or eight peeled mushroom caps (sliced or 
not) have been simmered about ten minutes. 

Madeira Sauce 

Cook two tablespoonfuls of flour in two tablespoonfuls 
of melted butter; add one-fourth a teaspoonftd, each, of 
salt and pepper, half a cup of tomato pmr^ and one-third 



28 mALCWXBOOK 

a cup of haJf-glaze (meat broth much reduced by slow 
cookmg), and stir imtil boiling; add the mushrooms, let 
simmer, and just before servmg add three tablespoonfuls 
of Madeira wine. 

Eggs Opera 

Butter an individual shirring dish; break two eggs 
into it; set the dish into a moderate oven to remain until 
the egg-white is slightly coagulated throughout. Set the 
dish on a breakfast plate; on one side of the eggs, in the 
dish, dispose half a dozen cooked stalks of asparagus, a 
teaspoonf ul of Hollandaise sauce above and on the other 
side of the eggs group cubes of calf's Uver broUedonone 
or two skewers, and serve at once. To cook the liver, pour 
boiling water over a slice of liver, cut a scant three-fourths 
an inch thick, then cut in cubes; butter one or two skewers 
and run them through the cubes. Broil over a moderate 
fire about four minutes, turning each ten seconds. Push 
from the skewer to the side of the egg. Chicken livers 
are often used for this dish. 

Poached Eggs, Lydia Slyle^ 

Chop together an equal quantity of cold cooked chicken 
and cold boiled potatoes. Use half a teaspoonful of salt 
for each pint of material, and turn into a frying pan con- 
taining a spoonful or two of melted butter, salt pork fat 
or other suitable fat; add a few spoonfuls of milk, chicken 
broth or water; cover and let cook imtil very hot, stirring 
occasionally to avoid the forming of a crust. Turn on to 
a serving dish. Set four or more poached eggs above 
and surroimd with asparagus sauce. To make the sauce 
use two tablespoonfuls, each, of butter and flour, one- 
fourth a teaspoonful, each, of salt and pepper and half a 
cup, each, of asparagus pur^e and cream. Or, stir a cup 
of acfparagus tips into a cup of cream sauce. 



EGGS 29 

Stuffed Eggs au Giatin 

Cook in the shell as for slicing. Let cool in cold water; 
shell and cut in halves, lengthwise. Bemove and sift the 
yolks. Have ready cooked ham, chicken or veal, one or 
more, chopped and poimded to a smooth paste. To the 
yolks, add an equal measure of the meat, half a teaspoon- 
ful of paprika, a little mixed mustard, also salt as needed. 
With this mixture fill and press together corresponding 
halves of the eggs. Prepare a cup and a half of bread, 
tomato or cream sauce. Dispose one-half of the sauce in 
an earthen baking dish; in this lay the egg^ and pour over 
the rest of the sauce. Sprinkle on half a cup of cracker 
crumbs mixed with four tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 
Set into the oven, to reheat the whole and brown the 
crumbs. 

Bread Sauce 

To one cup and a half of rich milk, add half a cup of 
fine, soft bread crumbs and half an onion in which three 
cloves have been pressed. Let cook in a double boiler 
about an hour, stirring occasionally. Remove the onion, 
add one or two tablespoonfuls of butter, a scant half- 
teaspoonful, each, of salt and pepper, and beat well. 

Spanish Omelet 

}4 QDion 1 teaspoonful beef extract 

H green or red pepper pod j^ teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls raw or cooked ham 4 eggs 

2 mushrooms in shreds }^ teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonf ub butter or o3 4 tablespoonfuls water 

IH cups tomato (discarding seeds and 1 tablespoonful butter 
skin) 

Chop, fine, the onion and pepper; cut the ham and 
fresh mushrocws in thin shreds; let cook in the two 
tablespoonfuls of butter or oil till softened and yellowed; 
add the tomato and let simmer until the moisture is evajH 



30 KmiLCQOKBOQK 

orated; add the salt and beef extract and set aade until 
ready to use. Beat the eggs until a full spoonful may be 
lifted, add the salt and water and mix again. Melt the 
butter in the omelet pan and turn in the e^ mixture. 
Shake the pan over the stove, to keep the mixture sliding 
on it, tipping it, meanwhile, to let the uncooked part of 
the mixture down upon the pan. When creamy through- 
out, spread part of the prepared mixture on the top of 
half the omelet, fold and turn upon a hot platter, surround 
with the rest of the mixture and serve at once. 

French Omeleti with Chicken 

1 ^erous cup cooked dbickea in half 1 cup cMcken broth or 
mch cubes rich milk 

2 tablespoonf uls butter 4 eggs 

2 tablesi)oozifu]8 flour ^ teaspoon! ul salt 

VL teaspoon! ul salt 4 tablespoon! uls chicken 

}4 teaspoon!ul pepper broth or water 

1 tablespoon!ul butter 

Make a sauce of the butter, flour, seasonings and cup 
of chicken broth or milk, add the chicken and keep hot 
while the omelet is prepared, in the same manner as the 
Spanish omelet. Spread part of the chicken mixture 
over the omelet, then fold and turn on to the dish. Pour 
the rest of the mixture around the omelet. 

Puffy Omelet, with Oysters 

3 egg yolks> beaten light }^ pint oysters 

3 taDle3poon!u]s oyster broth or water 2 tablespoon!uls butter 

^ teaspoon!ul salt 2 tablespoon!uls flour 

^ teaspoon!ul pepper }^ teaspoon!ul salt 

3 egg-whites, beaten dry )^ teaspoon!ul black pepper 

1 tablespoonjful butter 1 cup oyster broth or muk 

To the yolks add the broth and seasonings, mix, and 
pour over the whites; cut and fold the whites into the 
yolk mixture; melt the butter in the omelet pan, turn in 
the egg mixture, make smooth and let stand on the range 



ISGOS 31 

s moment to set the egg, then put the frjong pan Into 
a slow oven. The oysters should have been brought to 
the boilmg pointi the broth dramed and strained. Make 
a sauce of the butter, flouTi seasonings and cup of broth 
and add the oysters? When a knife cut down into the 
omelet can be removed without traces of imcooked egg, 
score it at right angles to the handle of the pan; spread 
one-half with a portion of the oysters and sauce, fold in 
the scoring, turn on to a hot platter, and pour the rest 
of the oyster mixture around the omelet. 

Rice Omelet (PnBy) 

'^ cup hot boiled rice }i teaspooofui salt 

2 eg^whites, beaten dry yi teaspoonful pepper 

2 en^yolks, beaten light 1 tablespoonfuf butter 
1 tablespooiif ul cold water 

The rice may be fresh-cooked or reheated, if only the 
grains be distinct. To the beaten yolks add the rice and 
seasoning, mix thoroughly; then fold in the whites. 
Melt the butter in an omelet pan, turn in the mixture, 
making it smooth on the top. Let the pan stand on top 
of the range to *' set '' the egg on the bottom, then move 
to the oven, which should be of moderate heat. When 
a knife cut down into the center of the omelet comes out 
without uncooked ^g, score the omelet entirely across 
the top and at right angles to the handle of the pan. 
Turn on to a hot platter. For variety, cook the rice in 
chicken broth or tomato purte, or serve with a sauce in 
which one or both of these articles is used as the liquid. 
A little onion juice may be added to the omelet or the 
sauce. 



Egg& Scrambled in Double 

4 em K teaspoonful pepper 

4 tablespoonf uls water 1 tablespoonf ul butter 

a teaspoonful salt 



32 XVALCamcBOOK 

Beat the eggs and seasonings tmtil a full epoonf ul may 
be lifted; add the water, and beat until well mixed Melt 
the butter in a double boiler, add the ^gs and stir con- 
stantly while cooking over boiling water. Turn on to a 
hot dish while slightly underdone. A tablespoonful of 
fine-chopped cooked ham, chicken or smoked beef in 
shreds may be added for each egg; add with the water or 
stir into the butter before turning in the eggs. 

Tomato Timbales 

Beat two whole eggs and one yolk until well mixed; 
add half a teaspoonf ul of salt, half a teaspoonf ul of pepper, 
one-third a cup of sifted bread crumbs (soft), two table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter and one cup of tomato pur^. 
Mix thoroughly. Turn into buttered timbale molds. Set 
these on many folds of paper in a baking dish. Surround 
with boiling water. Bake in a moderate oven imtil the 
mixtiu*e is firm in the center. The water should not boil 
during the cooking. Remove the molds from the water. 
After two or three minutes unmold. Serve with cream 
sauce. 

Eggs & la Grant 

Allow a green pepper for each service and two eggs for 
each pepx)er. Beat one-half the number of eggs to be 
used until a full spoonful can be lifted, and add one- 
fourth a teaspoonful of salt for each egg. Into an omelet 
pan put as many tablespoonfuls of cream as beaten eggs; 
add the eggs, and scrape and stir constantly until thick- 
ened slightly. Keep the eggs very soft. Beat the rest of 
the eggs, season with salt and pour over the scrambled 
eggs. Use this mixture to fill the peppers. Set the pep- 
pers in timbale or other molds to keep them upright. 
Let cook in a moderate oven until the egg is set through- 
out. Turn on to a hot platter, open side down. Poinr 



EGOS 33 

around half-glaze sauce to which shredded truffles have 
been added. 

Half-Glaze Sauce 

To a cup of brown sauce add a cup of brown stock and 
let simmer in an open saucepan until the mixture is re- 
duced one-half. Skim as needed. When ready to serve, 
beat in one teaspoonf ul of butter and two or three table- 
spoonfuls of sherry wine. 



CHAPTER IV 

FISH 

Hah is cooked when the juioes are coagulated delicately, 
or when the flesh separates easily from the bones. Plx>p- 
erly cooked fish is always tender. Fish is most appetizing 
when, as far as possible, all inedible portions are discarded 
before cooking. As a general rule, an acid sauce harmo* 
nizes well with fish; if this be not provided, it is well to 
serve at the same time a salad, as cucumber, or lettuce, 
with French dressing. Onion juice or a faint suspicion 
of garlic improves such a salad. Any delicate vegetable or 
onions in cream sauce are appropriate with fish. 



Broiled White Fish, Mackerel and Bluefish 

Oil the broiler thoroughly. Do not have too fierce a 
fire, as strong heat hardens the fibers very quickly. Cook 
from fifteen to twenty minutes. Baste with butter once 
or twice during the cooking. If the fish be thick, the last 
of the cooking might be done over a dripping pan in the 
oven. In broiling, turn, after cooking the flesh side ten 
seconds, the skin side five seconds. With a fork separate 
the fish from the wires of the broiler, on both sides, then 
slide to the serving dish. Spread ^with Mattre d'H6tel 
Butter. 

Maitre d'H6tel Butter 
{For broiled fish, steak or chops) 

Beat one-fourth a cup of butter to a cream; beat in 
half a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper and, very 



FISH 35 

dowlyi a tablespoonful of lemon juice. The heat of the 
broiled article will melt the butter. For a change add a 
tablespoonful of fine-chopped parsley with the seasonings. 

Broiled Sciod 

Dress a pltMp cod or haddock for broiling (so that it 
may lie flat ui)on the broiler). Put flesh side up in a pan, 
sprinkle generously with salt, then cover with cold water. 
In the morning drain, dry on a cloth, and broil in a well- 
oiled broiler over a clear fire. Baste twice with melted 
butter. Spread with anchovy sauce, and serve at once. 

Anchovy Sauce for Broiled Sciod 

Pound the*flesh of four anchovies, preserved in oil, and 
one-third a cup of butter in a mortar. Then press the 
mixture through a fine sieve. Melt one level tablespoonful 
of butter, and in it cook a level tablespoonful of flour and 
a few grains, each, of salt and pepper. Stir in half a cup 
of milk or white broth until the mixture thickens, then beat 
in the anchovy butter and a tablespoonful of lemon juice 
or vin^ar. A tablespoonful of anchovy paste may re- 
place the anchovies. 

Brook Ttout au Bleu 

2 quarts water 3 young cairots 

H cup cider vinegar 1 onion 

1 tablespoonful salt 2 branches sweet basQ 

}i green pepper 4 branches parsley 

Shred the pepper, carrots and onion; add the other 
articles; simmer half an hour, then strain into a shallow 
broad basin. Ten minutes before time to serve put into 
the liquid (court bouillon) as many fresh-caught and 
carefully cleaned trout as the boiling liquid will cover, 
without ceasing to boil. The skin will shrivel and break; 
then let simmer from six to eight minutes longer. Drain 



36 Xyal cook Bom: 

the fishy dispose them upon a hot napkm on a l)late and 
surround with parsley. Serve Hollandaise or drawn 
butter sauce in a dish apart. 

Steamed Salmon 

To serve eight or ten people buy about four pounds 
from the middle of a salmon. Use a steam kettle or a 
fish kettle. Put a pared carrot or potato in the opening 
of the fish (the weight will hold the fish in an upright 
position) and set it upon the rack. Pour into the kettle 
lukewarm, salted water to reach nearly to the rack. Let 
cook about half an hour after boiling begins. When 
cooked lift out the rack and slide the fish on to the serv- 
ing dish. Remove the vegetable and any bones exposed by 
the contracting of the flesh. Garnish with parsley and 
slices of lemon. Serve with boiled potatoes and drawn 
butter, egg, caper or mock Hollandaise sauce. 

Mock Hollandaise Sauce 

4 tablespoonfuls butter 2 cups water, fish or chicken 

4 tablespoonfuls flour broth 

^ teaspoon! ul salt 2 egg-yolks, beaten light 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 1 tablespoonful lemon juice or 

vinegar 

Melt the first measure of butter; in it cook the flour 
and salt, add the liquid and stir until boiling; add the 
beaten yolks diluted with a little of the sauce, then stir in 
the acid, drop by drop, and finish with the butter a little 
at a time. 

Baked Bluefish or Shad 

Cut the cleaned fish into pieces for serving. The back- 
bone is often removed before the fish is cut into pieces. 
Chop fine one small Bermuda onion and sprinkle over a 
buttered agate pan; set the pieces of fish on the onion; 
add a few spoonfuls of fish stock and salt and pepper and 



FISH 37 

cover with a buttered paper. The paper should rest on the 
sides of the pan. Let cook about twelve minutes, basting 
three times. Dispose the fish on a serving dish; strain 
the liquid in the pan into a cup and a half of Italian sauce 
and pour this over the fish. Pipe rosettes of mashed potato 
around the fish and serve at once. 

Italian Sauce 

Cook a smaU onion, chopped fine, in two tablespoonfuls 
of clarified butter; when tender add one-third a clove of 
garlic, crushed; stir two minutes, add one-fourth a pound 
of mushrooms, chopped fine (six small mushrooms), and 
cook and stir until the moisture from the mushrooms has 
evaporated; add half a cup of white wine and let reduce 
one-fourth; remove the garlic, add one teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley, one cup of brown sauce, one cup of veal 
broth, one-fourth a cup of tomato purte and salt and 
pepper as needed. Let boil once. 

Fresh Mackerel, Baked, Creole Style 

Split a carefully cleaned mackerel and set into an agate 
dish; brush over the flesh side with melted butter and set 
into the oven to bake for fifteen minutes. Cut half a 
pepper in shreds, let cook in two tablespoonfuls of oil or 
butter eight or ten minutes, stirring constantly; add one- 
fourth a clove of garlic, chopped fine, and two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour; when the flour is absorbed and cooked, add 
a cup and a half of tomato, half a teaspoonful of sugar, 
half a teaspoonful of salt and half a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley, and stir until boiling; let simmer ten minutes, 
then pour over the mackerel in the dish and let cook in 
the oven a second fifteen minutes. Before serving, add 
canned mushrooms, cut in quarters. 



38 MVALCOOKBom: 

Baked Mackerel, Essex Style 

Cut choice fresh mackerel in halves lengthwise, and 
trim neatly. Set, skin side down, in a well-buttered au 
gratin dish. Remove the skins from two onions and two 
tomatoes and cut them in slices. Set the slices above the 
fish, alternating onion and tomato. Season with salt and 
pepper and add bits of butter. Bake until the fish is done. 
Pour over a Uttle hot cream or egg sauce and serve at 
once in the dish. Cover while baking with a well-buttered 
paper. 

Salt Mackerel Baked with Cream 

Soak a salt mackerel in cold water twelve hours. If 
convenient, let cold water from the faucet drip slowly upon 
the skin side of the fish during the whole time. Cover with 
boiling water, and let simmer about ten minutes, then 
drain and wipe dry with a cloth. Put the fish in a large 
shallow agate pan, and nearly cover with hot cream or rich 
milk. Add also two tablespoonfuls of butter, and cook 
in the oven until the cream is reduced one-half. Remove 
to a serving dish carefully. Garnish with parsley and a 
slice of lemon. Serve with plain boiled potatoes. 

Fillets of Sea Trout, Baked 

Skin one large or two small sea trout, then carefully 
"lift " or push the flesh from the bones in two long fillets 
or strips; cut these into pieces suitable for serving, having 
all of same shape and size, also about twice as long as wide. 
Fold the fillets and trim them to a point at one end. But- 
ter an agate or similar baking dish ; spread over the bottom 
a small onion, two tomatoes and half a green or red sweet 
pepper, all chopped rather fine. On this bed set the fillets ; 
cover with a buttered paper and set aside in a cool place. 
Cover the head, trimmings, bones broken into several 



FISH 39 

pieces, port of an onioiii three branches of parsley and a 
branch of sweet basil with cold water and let simmer half 
an hour. Then take up the buttered paper and pour in 
about three-fourths a cup of the fish stock and half a cup 
of Sauteme; sprinkle the fish with salt; return the buttered 
paper to place and let cook in a moderate oven about 
twenty minutes. Remove the fillets to a hot dish and 
cover to keep hot. Strain the sauce; add half a cup of 
thick tomato pur^, and when hot beat in the yolks of two 
eggs, beaten into one-fourth a cup of creamed butter. 
Season as needed with salt and pepper, and pour over the 
fish. Serve at once. 



Halibut Sattt£ 

The halibut should be cut rather less than an inch in 
thickness and of a length to lie flat in the cast-iron frying 
pan. In the pan cook half a dozen strips of salt pork, half 
an inch wide and about an inch and a half long, until the 
fat is extracted and the remnant crisp and light brown. 
Remove them to the serving dish and keep them hot. 
Sprinkle flour or commeal and salt on a paper or board and 
press the fish upon it, dredge the upper surface with the 
same ingredients; turn and pat the fish until well coated, 
then set to cook in the hot fat. Let cook until well browned 
on one side, then turn to brown the other side. Serve with 
cucmnber or other green salad. Have a strong fire until 
the fish is browned on one side, then lower the heat; re- 
new for the other side and finish with low heat. The last 
of the cooking may be done in the oven. The slice of fish 
should be whole and evenly browned when done. If 
the heat be strong throughout the cooking the fish 
will be tough and juiceless, cooked properly it is most 
delicious. 



40 HVALCOmBOOK 

Fillets of Fish with Oysters 
{Halibvt, haddock, flounder , white lake fish) 

Have the fillets removed from the fish. Cut these in 
size to serve, trim to a point at each end, and sprinkle 
with salt, white pepper, lemon and onion juice. Cut 
strips of potato half an inch thick and as long as the fillets 
are wide. Dip these m melted butter (to facihtate re- 
moval), and fold each fillet over a piece of potato. Bake 
about twenty minutes, in a buttered dish, basting with a 
little fish stock, made of the fish trimmings and the liquor 
from half a pint of oysters and a few bits of vegetables. 
Dispose the fillets (first remove the potato) lengthwise on 
a serving dish, one overlapping another. Set a broiled, 
oyster, seasoned with melted butter, lemon juice, salt and 
pepper above. Surround with the liquid, in which the fish 
was cooked, thickened with roux. Garnish with cutlet- 
shaped pieces of toast and parsley. 

Fish Umbales 

H cup soft bread crumbs 1 teaspoon! ul salt 

^ cup rich milk }^ teaspoonf ul paprika 

}4 cup cream 2 cups cooked fish, chopped 

2 tablespoonf ub anchovy essence 3 egg-whites, beaten dry 

m 

Cook the crumbs in the milk to a smooth paste, add the 
cream and seasonings and mix thoroughly; then beat in 
the fish and fold in the egg-whites. Turn into a buttered 
mold. Cook in a dish of boiling water, on many folds of 
paper, imtil firm in the center. Serve with Hollandaise, 
drawn butter or lobster sauce. 

Drawn Batter Sauce 

li cup butter }^ teaspoonful paprika 

ji cup flour 2 cups cdd water 

i4 teaspoonful salt }i cup butter 



BOGS OPGBA. Pops ts 



EOO SAIuU>, ADBORE. Pagt « 



CANNED BALMON I 



SALMON CROQUETTES. PoflE U 



PILAU A LA TURQUB. Pott t» 



TUKKEr. Page CO 



FISH 41 

Prepare in the usual manner, adding the last measure 
of butter, in small pieces, just before sending the sauce to 
the table. The butter should be beaten in so gradually 
that none appears on the surface. For lobster sauce add 
from half to a full cup of lobster meat in pieces and stock 
made of the body bones of the lobster in place of water. 

Sahnon Timbales (Cooked Fish) 

2 cups cold cooked salmon, 1 tablespoonf ul chopped parsley 

chopped fine H teaspoon! ul salt ^ 

2 tablespoonfids'butter ^ teaspoonful paprika 

2 tablespoon! uls bread crumbs 2 eggs 
H cup white stock or milk 

Melt the butter, add the crumbs and stir until well 
blended; add the liquid, parsley and seasonings, and stir 
until boiling; add the fish and the e^s, beaten without 
separating; turn into buttered molds; let cook on several 
folds of paper in a dish surroimded with boiling water. 
Serve, turned from the molds, with a sauce made of one- 
fourth a cup, each, of butter and flour, half a teagfpoonf ul 
of salt, one-fourth a teaspoooful of pepper and two cups 
of white stock or milk, or half of eachi j 

Salmon Timbales (Raw Fish) 

H pound raw salmon 1 cup double cream 

2 egg-yolks (raw) 2 egg-whites, beaten dry 

1 tablespooi^ul butter H teaspoonful salt 

1 tablespoon!ul flour yi teaspoon!ul pepper 
}^ cup chicken or fish broth 

The sabnon is weighed after the removal of all imedible 
portions. As purchased rather less than a poimd is needed. 
Scrape the pulp from the fibers and pound to a smooth 
consistency; add the yolks and poimd again. ^Before 
I)ounding the fish make a sauce of the butter, flour, salt 
and pepper as needed and the broth, and let this cool. 
Add to the fish and egg mixture, and pound again; then 



42 XyALCOOKBOOK 

fold in the whites of eggs, beaten dry, and the oream, 
beaten firm, also the salt and pepper. Thoroughly grease 
the inside of timbale molds with softened butter, then 
sprinkle with capers or chopped parsley and set aside to 
chill, when the decoration will be held in place. Fill the 
molds with the fish preparation, tapping them on the table, 
meanwhile, that the mixture may settle firm in the molds. 
Cook in the oven, on folds of paper and surrounded by 
boiling water until firm in the center. Serve with Hol« 
landaise, drawn butter or fish Bechamel sauce. Capers 
may be added to the drawn butter sauce. 

Creamed Ftesh Fish en Cocotte 

Dififpose cooked fresh fish, flaked when hot, and mixed 
with cream sauce (one cup of fish to three-fourths a cup of 
sauce)^ in individual dishes (china or paper) ; pipe mashed 
potato on the edge of the fish; cover the fish with cracker 
crumbs, stirred into melted butter, and brush over the 
potato with beaten yolk of e^ mixed with milk. Set the 
dishes into the oven to brown the crumbs and the edges of 
the potato. 

Canned Salmon Croquettes 

Open a can of salmon steak and drain off all liquid; 
turn the sahnon on to tissue paper and let stand to drain 
thoroughly, then separate the fish into fiakes. Make a 
cup of sauce with three tablespoonfuls of butter, one* 
f omlih a cup of sifted flom*, one-fourth a teaspoonf ul, each, 
of salt and pepper and one cup of milk; add the flaked 
sahnon; mix without breaking up the flesh more than 
is necessary. Spread on a buttered plate and set aside 
to become cold. Shape into croquettes; egg-and-bread 
crumb and fry in deep fat. Serve with peas or string 
beans, and cucumbers or sauce tartare. 



FISH 43 

Canned Salmon Loaf 

1 can sBlmoii pM^ed fine H teaspoonful salt 

a cup soft nrted bread crumbs H teaspoonful pepper 

4 e^yolks, beaten light 1 teaspoonful fine-chopped panky 

4 taUespoonf uls mdted butter 4 cgip-whites, beaten dry 

Use a silver fork in '* picking up ** the fish, discarding 
skin and bones; add the other ingredientSi save the whites, 
and when well mixed fold in the whites. Turn the mix- 
ture into a buttered mold. Bake until firm in the center, 
surroimded with boiling water. Unmold and pour over 
the sauce made in the usual manner. 

Sauce 

2 tablespoonf ub butter }i teaspoonful pepper 

2 tsblespoonfuls flour 1 cup milk 

}>i teaspoonful salt 

Salmon CutletSi Pojarski Style 

Chop fine one pound of raw salmon; beat half a cup of 
butter to a cream, and gradually beat and rub this into the 
fish; beat in, also, one-fourth a cup of double cream, half 
a teaspoonful of salt and one-fourth a teaspoonful of pap- 
rika. Let chill a little, then shape into one dozen cutlets. 
The mixture can be shaped very easily. Beat one ^g, 
add four teaspoonfuls of milk, and mix thoroughly; in 
this dip the cutlets and at once roll in sifted soft bread 
crumbs. Fry in deep fat. Serve tomato sauce in a bowl. 

Tuna att Gratin in Shells 

Melt two tableqpoonfuls of butter; in it cook two table- 
spoonfuls of flour and half a teaspoonful, each, of salt 
and paprika, then add one cup of chicken broth (seasoned 
with v^etables and sweet herbs), or of milk, and stir until 
boiling. Add one can of tuna picked fine with a silver 
fork and additional seasoning as needed; mix thoroughly 



44 XyJiLCOOKBOOK 

and dispose in buttered shells. Cover with a cup of cracks 
crumbs mixed with one-third a cup of melted butter. 
Set into the oven to become very hot and brown the 
crumbs. Set a sprig of parsley or a paper lugrette in the 
center of the mixture in each shell. 

Salt Codfish Cakes en Surprise 

6 pared potatoes 1 egg, beaten li^t 

1 cup raw salt codfish Anchovy butter 

^ teaspoon! ul black pepper 

Cut the potatoes in quarters, set in a saucepan, dispose 
the fish above them in the center. Pour into the saucepan 
at the side enough boiling water to cover the potatoes, 
cover and boil till done. Drain off the water, let the 
potatoes dry out a little (on the stove), then mash thor- 
oughly. Add the seasonings. Stb* a little of the mixture 
into the egg^ then return the whole to the rest of the mix* 
ture. Shape into smooth balls. Make a depresaon in 
the center of each ball, put in a teaspoonful of anchovy 
or sardine butter. Cover secure to keep the butter with- 
in. Fry in a basket in deep fat, four or five at a time. 
Drain on soit paper. Serve at once. 

Anchovy Butter 

Pick the fins from six anchovies wiped free of oil; press 
the flesh through a sieve; beat this paste into one-third a 
cup of creamed butter; beat in also a tablespoomful of 
fin^-chopped parsley and two tablespoonf uls of chopped 
capers. Sar(Unes may be used in place of the anchovies, 
or anchovy paste in place of the anchovy fillets. 

Creamed Salt Codfishi Poulette 

Pick tenderloins of salt codfish in thin, small bits to fill 
a cup; cover with cold water and let stand overnight; set 



FISH 45 

over the fire in same water, and let heat slowly till water 
looks milky (do not let boil), and drain; melt two table- 
spoonfuls of butter; in it cook two tablespoonfuls of floiu*, 
then add one cup of milk and stir until boiling; add the 
fish from which the water has been drained and beat in 
one ^g, beaten very light; stir until the e^ thickens, 
but do not let boil. Serve with hot baked or boiled 
potatoes. 

Finnan Haddie k la Behnonico 

Put a plump finnan haddie over the fire, skin side up, in 
cold water to cover; let heat gradually to just below the 
boiling point. After twenty minutes, remove, wipe dry 
and separate into flakes, discarding skin and bones. Melt 
a tablespoonful of butter in the blazer of a chafing-dish, 
add the prepared fish with a dash of paprika and stir and 
turn, over and over, until the butter is absorbed; add thin 
cream to the height of the fish; set over the hot water pan 
and when very hot stir in the beaten yolks of two or three 
eggs, mixed with half a cup of cream; add salt if needed; 
stir constantly until the ^g is set, then serve at once. 

Finnan Haddie, Dinner Style 

Put the thick half of a finnan haddie over the fire in 
cold water and let heat slowly to the boiling point; draw 
to a cooler part of the range and let stand half an hour, 
without the water boiling. Remove the fish from the 
water and take out the bone. Set the fillet thus formed 
in a narrow, earthen dish, suitable for the oven and the 
table. ^ While the fish is over the fire, make ready six or 
eight potatoes of the same dze; steam or boil them, 
sprinkle with salt and let dry over the fire; then set them 
around the fish as a border, pour over a cup of cream, add 
bits of butter, and fleck the potatoes with paprika. Let 
stand in the oven five or six minutes, then serve. 



46 inTiLtkHMCBOM: 

Oyster Stew 

1 quart (mten H teasDocmf ul bkck pepper 

1 cup odd water H cup butter 

3 cups hot milk or w»ter H cup fine cracker crumbs 

1 teaspoon! ul or more salt 

Pour the cold water over the oysters, and rinse to 
remove bits of shell; strain the liquid through two folds 
of cheese cloth, heat to the boiling point, skim, add the 
oysters, and heat the whole to the boiling point; let 
simmer until the oysters look plump and the edges 
rufl9e a little; add the other ingredients. Serve at once. 
See Soups for Oyster Soup. 

Poached Oysters on tbe Half HsheU 

Butter as many scallop shells as there are individuals to 
serve. Put into each shell about six oysters with their own 
liquor, and sprinkle with salt, pepper, tomato catsup, and 
a drop of Tabasco sauce. Scatter a few bite of butt^, here 
and there, on the oysters, and set the shells in a hot oven. 
Serve on doily-covered plates as soon as the oysters look 
plump and the edges curl. Put two or three toast pointe 
in each shell, or serve with brown-bread sandwiches. 

Broiled Oysters 

Pour about one-fourth a cup of water over a pint of 
oysters, and inspect each oysb&r carefully, to remove bite 
of shell. *> Drain on a cloth, dip in melted butter or bacon 
fat, and set into the spaces of the broiler. Broil over the 
fire, first on one side and then on the other, until the edges 
begin to curl and the oysters look plump. Season with 
salt and pepper, and a little lemon juice, and serve on 
bite of toasted bread. Or use maitre d'hdtel butter. Or 
heat the broth to the boiling point, skim, add pepper, salt 
and butter, and pour over the whde. 



FISH 47 

Oysters, Poulette Style 

Heat one pint of 03rsters to the boiling point, stoain off 
the broth and keep the oysters hot. Melt two table- 
spoonfuls of butter; in it cook three tablespoonfuls of flour 
and one-fourth a teaspoonful, each, of salt and pepper; 
add the cup of the oyster broth and stir until boiling. Beat 
the yolks of two eggs; add half a cup of cream and stir 
into the sauce; let cook without boiling; add the oysters, 
a teaspoonful of lemon juice and more seasoning if needed. 
Serve on crackers, or on toast, or in patty or Swedish 
timbale cafles. 

Vcied OysteiB that aro Differsnt 

(Mrs-Iitde) 

Wash and dry the oysters, dip in a beaten ^g diluted 
with two tablespoonfuls of milk, and roll in fresh-grated 
cheese. Stand them aside for ten minutes and then dip a 
second time. After second dippmg, roU in fine, soft bread 
crumbs. Fry in deep fat, drain, and serve with cdery. 

Oyster Filliiig for Patties, Swedish Timbale Cases 

Pour a cup of cold water over a quart of oysters, and 
look them over carefully, one by one, to remove bits of 
shell, if present. Strain the liquid, heat it to the boiling 
point, skim, then add the oysters and bring them quickly 
to the boiling point. Drain off the liquid; cover the oysters 
to keep them hot. Melt one-fourth a cup of butter; in it 
cook one-fourth a cup of floiLr, half a teaspoonful of salt 
and half a teaspoonful of black pepper; add one cup of the 
oyster liquor and three-fourths (scant) a cup of cream and 
stir until boiling; add the oysters and let become very 
hot over boiling water. 



48 XYHLCOOKBOOK 

Green Peppers Staffed with Oysters 

Select eight or ten peppers similar in size and shape. 
Cut out a round piece from the stem end of each and re- 
move the seeds and veios. Pour boiling water over the 
prepared peppers and let them simmer about five minutes; 
then drain and rub dry. Chop fine one pepper and a slice 
of onion; let cook in a tablespoonful of hot butter imtil 
yellowed slightly. Parboil one quart of oysters, drain 
and cut each in two or three pieces. Cook half a cup of 
blanched rice in the oyster broth, adding also salt and milk 
as needed. Keep the grains of rice whole. When the rice is 
tender, add one-third a cup of butter, the onion, pepper 
and the bits of oysters and use to fill the peppers. Spread 
cracker crumbs mixed with butter above. Bake until 
the mixture is very hot and the crumbs browned. Serve 
with tomato sauce. Sifted, soft bread crumbs — a pint or 
more — may be used ia place of the rice. 

OjTSterSi Lansdale 

Select (for each service) a large firm* mushroom; peel 
and trim, leaving the stalk intact. Cook in clarified but- 
ter (slowly melted and the oil on top poured off) with the 
stem up. Put fresh-opened 03rsters (3 to 5) into the same 
butter and let saut^ until the edges curl; turn and let 
cook a moment on the other side. While these are cook- 
ing, broil a thick slice of tomato; set the tomato in a 
hot egg ^'shirrer,'' sprinkle with salt and pepper and dot 
with butter. Set the mushroom, stalk upwards, on the 
tomato and dispose the oysters on the mushroom around 
the stem. Season as needed. Cover with a glass bell 
made hot in hot water. Set into the oven about two 
minutes; then serve at once. 



FISH 49 

Broiled Lobster 

Ckx>k the lobster in court bouillon about fifteen minutes. 
(A recipe for court bouillon is given under Brook Trout 
au Bleu.) Then split lengthwise, sprinkle generously with 
melted butter aud let cook about five minutes, less rather 
than more, in a well-oiled broiler over a rather dull fire. 
Break open the claws, set on a hot plate, and surround with 
parsley. Serve melted butter, highly flavored with cay- 
enne in a sauce boat. 

Lobster-^and-Halibut en Casserole 

1}4 1^ ntw halibut 1 branch sweet basil 

114 lbs. lobster 1 teaspoonful grated onion 

1 onion y^ teaspoonf ul salt 

1 carrot 3 crackers, rolled fine 

2 bninches paisley 3 tablespoonf uls butter 

Remove skin and bone from the fish, cut the flesh in 
six or eight pieces; remove the lobster flesh from the shell; 
cut the portions from the tail and large claws in pieces of 
nearly the same size as the fiish. Cover the body bones of 
the lobster and the bones and skin of the fish with cold 
water, add the onion and carrot cut in bits, the parsley 
and basil and let simmer half an hour, strain and set aside. 
About twenty minutes before time to serve, put the pieces 
of fish in a buttered casserole and add a teaspoonf ul of 
grated onion, half a teaspoonful of salt and enough of the 
hot fish stock to cover the fish; cover the casserole and let 
the fish cook about fifteen minutes. Add the crackers, 
and the butter, in little bits, and mix thorou^y ; then add 
the lobster, cover and let become very hot, when the dish 
is ready to serve. 

Lobster k la Creole 



1 pint of lobster meat 3 tablespoonfuls flour 

}4 cup rice }4 teaspocmf ul salt 

' ' a small onion H teaspoonful paprika 



X piai 

kaa 

H A P^^^ pepper 2 cups tomato pur6e 

2 tablespooofuls butter 



50 XYM COOKBOOK 

Blanch the ricei then cook tender and drain. The 
lobster should be cut in small thin slices. Chop fine the 
onion and pepper, and cook in the butter until softened 
and yellowed (not browned); add the flour, salt, and 
pepper, and stir and cook until frothy; add the tomato 
purte and stir until boiling. Set over hot water and lightly 
mix in the rice and lobster. Cover and serve very hot. 

Scallops Baked in Shells 

For one quart of scallops make one cup and a half of 
sauce. Put the scallops over a quick fire with two table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter, shake the saucepan and let 
heat quickly to the boiling point; drain in a colander. Use 
the broth with chicken or veal broth, and a Uttle cream, 
in making the sauce. Three tablespoonfuls, each, of 
butter and flour will ^be needed, also a scant half-teaspoon- 
f ul of salt and of pepper, and one cup and a half of liquid. 
Add also the yolks of two eggs, beaten light, one table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley and a teaspoonful of lemon 
juice. Lastly, add the scallops. Dispose in buttered shells, 
individual casseroles or ramekms, cover with buttered 
crumbs and let bake until the crumbs are browned* 

Scallops k la Brestoise (Ranhof^) 

Put a quart of scallops over the fire with four table- 
spoonfuls of white wine or mushroom liquor, or half of 
each. Let heat quickly to the boiling point. Drain, and 
chop the scallops. Cut fine half a mild onion and let cook 
in two tablespoonfuls of butter until softened and yel- 
lowed, not browned; add the scallop broth and let simmer 
ten minutes; add soft bread crumbs, chopped fresh mush- 
rooms, salt and pepper as needed, and the scallops to 
make a mixture that may be rounded in the shells. Have 
the shells well buttered. Cover with a cup of soft bread 



51 

crumbs mixed with one-fourth a cup of mielted butter. 
Let brown in the oven. Set a sprig of parsley in the center 
of each. Set on plates with a folded napkin. 

Fried Scallops 

Cover the scallops with boiling water. Let stand three 
minutes, drain and dry on a cloth. Season with salt and 
pepper, roll in flour, dip in egg, and roll in cracker or bread 
crumbs. Fry in deep fat until well colored; dress on a 
napkin, and serve with quartered lemons. 

s 

Scalloped Clams, Rockport Style 

Take a quart of clams, remove and set adde the soft 
part; discard the black neck and chop fine the remainder 
of the clams. Add the chopped clams to the juice and 
soft part« Mix one cup and a half of cracker crumbs with 
a scant two-thirds a cup of melted butter. Butter an 
earthen au gratin dish and fill the dish with alternate layers 
ct the buttered crumbs and prepared clams, havmg the 
first and last layer of crumbs. Season the crumbs with 
salt and pepper. Let bake about three-fourths of an hoiur 
in a slow oven. Or, if the dish is shallow (two layers of 
clams), bake from twenty minutes to half an hour. Serve 

at once. 

Crab Ravigote 

3 tablespoonfuls butter 1}4 tablespoonfuls oKtcs 

3 tablespoonfuls flour 1}^ tablespoonfuls chervil 

H teaspoonftd salt IH tablespoonfuls parsley 

H teaspoonful cayenne IH tablesixmnf uls tai 
lyi cups chicken or ved broth Spinach juice to tint 

2 shallots, chopped fine 1 pint crab meat 
2 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

Make a sauce of the butter, flour, salt, pepper and broth. 
Let the shallots stand on the back of the range in the vine- 



52 HYAL COOKBOOK 

gar until the vinegar is reduced one-half; add to the 
sauce with the fine-chopped ingredients; add spinach 
juice to tint a delicate green. Fold in the crab meat 
(generous measure), cover and let become very hot with- 
out boiling. 



CHAPTER V 

POULTRT, DOMESTIC GEESE AND DUCES 

Rioasting Chicken and Torkey 

Qean and truss poultry neatly (see Roast Goosb), that 
the cooked fowl may rest on the wings level on the {datter, 
the drumsticks close to the body. Cover the breast with 
thin slices of fat salt pork or bacon. Set on a rack in a 
baking pan a little larger than the object. The rack 
should be smaller than the pan to admit of the free use 
of the spoon in basting. Turn often, at first, to sear over 
uniformly and, later on, to brown evenly. It will take 
half an hour to sear over the outside of a turkey. The 
oven should be hot during this time; then lower the heat 
and finish the cooking in an oven in which the fat in the 
pan will not bum. Baste each ten minutes with hot 
dripping; dredge with flour after basting. Cook until 
the joints are easily separated. Chickens require £rom 
(me hour and a half to two hours cooking. A t^i-pound 
turkey will require three hours cooking. Add no water 
or broth to the pan during cooking. 

Giblet Sauce for Roast Fowl 

Cover the neck and giblets (liver, ^zard' and heart) 
of a fowl with boiUng water, heat to the boiling point, 
then let dmmer until tender. Chop the giblets fine, 
removing all bits of gristle. Pour off the fat from the 
baking pan, leaving but two or three tablespoonfuls in 
the pan; add three tablespoonfuls of flour and stir and 



oook untQ absorbed; add about one eup and a half of 
htaOx (in which the tablets were cooked) aad stir until 
boiling. Let boU six minutes. Add the chopped pbletSt 
and the sauce is ready to serve. 

F8eled Chicken 

Wash and dry two young chickens and truss as for 
roasting. With a larding needle draw dght or ten long 
pork lardoons hito the breast of each chicken. Trim the 
ends and tie each lardoon in a loose knot. Setonarackin 
a casserole, baste with hot f at, cover and let cook in a 
moderate oven from one hour to an hour and a half. 
Baste each ten minutes with hot fat. Beinove the chickens 
from the oven as soon as they are tender. Cook the 
giblets in the casserole with the chickens. Chop fine and 
add to a sauce made of two or three tablespoonfuls, each, 
of flour and fat from the casserole and a cup and a half of 
broth. 

Brdled Chicken, Alabama Style 

Cut a young chicken, carefully cleaned, in halves, cut- 
ting througih the breast and back. Fasten a strip of 
bacon over the breast in each piece; set on a rack in a 
dripping pan, baste with melted butter or salfri)ork fat, 
and let cook until tender (nearly an hour), basting each ten 
minutes. Brush over with butter and broU over coals or 
under a gas burner until well browned. Pour over about 
half a cup of broth (made of the neck and giblets) sea- 
soned with salt and pepper, and qirinkle with fine^ 
chopped garden cress. 

ICaxyland CWcfcwt (Miiyg Quimby) 

Singe and draw the chicken, cut in ineces for serving^ 
separating at the joints. Season flour with salt and pep- 
per and in it roll the pieces of chicken. Have ready, in 



POUI/TBT, DOMESTIC QEESB AND DUCES 55 



cast-ir«i frying paiii some hot fat, salt pork, bacon or 
olive ml, ml im tkis cook the chicken, tinning it as 
neededi imtil it is of a golden brown exterior. Remove 
the chicken, and pour off the fat, leaving about four table- 
spoonfuls in the pan; add four tablespoonfuls of flour, 
half a teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper; stir until 
the fat has absorbed the flour and is slightly browned, 
then add two cups and a half of rich milk and stir until 
boiling; put the chicken into the sauce, cover and set 
into a moderate oven for one-half to three-fourths of an 
hour, to simmer, blend flavors and grow deliciously taider. 

Guinea Fowl Baked in Double Pan 

Split and prepare the fowl as for broiling. Lay in the 
lower part of a double baking pan, with thin slices of 
fat salt pork above. Put about one-third a cup of boiling 
water into the pan, and cover closely. Let cook in the 
oven thirty minutes or longer, until cooked through to 
the bones. Serve garnished with cress and with cress or 
other green salad in a dish apart Guinea chicks are good 
roasted or broiled. 

Panned Chicken 

Clean and separate a young ohicken into joints. Put 
the chicken into a baking pan, add a cup of boiling water, 
cover closely and let cook about an hour and a half. 
Baste each fifteen minutes with melted butter and the 
liquid in the pan. Serve with a sauce made of the Squid 
in the diidi and cream, and with sweet com f ritt^is. 

Sweet Com Fritters 

To one cup of sweet com pulp add the yolks of two 
eggs beaten light, half a teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth a 
teaspoonful of pepper, one cup of pastry flour with one 



56 KyALCMKBOOK 

and one-half G^^^Q teaspocmfuls of baking powder and 
the whites of two eggs beaten dry. Take up the mixture 
in a tablespoon and with a teaspoon scrape in a compact 
mass into hot fat; turn often while frying; drain on soft 
paper. To get the com pulp, score the kernels length* 
wise of the row and with the back of a knife press out 
the pulps leaving the hulls on the cob. 

Stewed Chicken, Cadillac Style 

Cut a well-cleaned chicken into pieces at the joints, and 
cover with hot veal broth; let boil six minute, then let 
simmer till tender. Blanch half a cup of rice, two dozen 
balls, cut from pared potatoes, and a dozen small onions; 
cook each separately until nearly done, drain and add to 
the chicken with a can of small stringless beans rinsed 
in boiling water. Let simmer about ten minutes, when all 
should be done. Prepare about a dozen and a half small 
baking powder biscuits. Turn the chicken, etc., on a 
large platter and surround with the hot biscuits. 

Chicken en Casserole 

Cook the chicken, cleaned and separated into joints, 
in butter, bacon or salt-pork fat, made hot in a frying 
pan, until browned on one side. Then turn the pieces, 
and brown the other side. Put the joints into the casse- 
role; put in about a pint of hot stock (A* water, cover the 
dish and set into the oven. Let cook at a gentle simmer 
about an hour and a quarter. Then add two dozen potato 
balls or cubes, one dozen tiny young onions or peeled 
fresh mushroom caps, and a dozen slices of carrot, all 
browned in the frying pan, and three or four tablespoon- 
fuls of sherry wine, with salt and pepper to season. Cover 
close, and let cook fifteen or twenty minutes longer. Send 
to the table in the dish, and without removing the cover. 



POXTLTBTy DOICESTIO QEESE AND DUCEB 67 

Flour and water mixed to a thin doiigh may be relied 
into a rope or string, mider the hands, and pressed upon 
the casserole, where the dish and cover meet, to keep in 
flavor. 

The dough should be removed, but the cover should 
not be lifted until after the dish has been set upem the 
table. 

Hie •ni«BS, potato balls and slices of carrot should be 
blaached and dried before being set to brown. To blanch, 
let Ml five minutes, dram and rinse in cold water. The 
pieces ef chicken may be rolled in flour before saut^g. 
The pinions, neck and back may be used for broth in 
which to cook the rest of the chicken. 



CSiicken Piei Biscuit Crust 

Separate a three-pound chicken into pieces at the 
joints. Wash carefully, cover with boilmg water, let 
boil five •r dx minutes, then let simmer until tender. 
The chicken will cook in from an hour and a half to two 
hours. Add salt near the last of the cooking. Let the 
chicken become cold. For the crust sift together four 
cups of pastry flour, a teaspoonf ul of salt and four slightly 
rounding teaspoonf uls of baking powder. Work in one- 
half a cup of shortening, then mix to a dough with milk. 
Take two-thirds of the paste upon a board dredged with 
flour, knead slightly, then roll out to fit a baking dish 
large enough to hold the chicken. EoU the rest of the 
paste into a sheet, spread with softened butter, and fold 
in three layers; roll to fit the top of the dish. Cut a slit 
in the top of the crust. Put the pieces of chicken in the 
lined dish. Sprinkle in a teaspoonful of salt and half a 
teaspoonf ul of black pepper and two or three tablespoon-* 
fuls of fiour. Add two tablespoonf uls of butter in little 
bits, as the chicken is put in. Have ready a sauce made of 
two tablesfpoonfuls of butter, three of flour, one cup of 



S8 XY/ULCOOKBOOK 

cream and the chicken broth. The sauce should be cdld. 
Turn this into the dish over the chicken. Bruflh the edge 
of the paste with cold water and set the cever in place. 
Ornament the cover with bits of paste, cut im isrescentSi 
if it be convenient. Set into a well-heated oven, c«ver 
with a buttered paper and let bake about three-fourths 
an hour. A pie is often made with only an upper crust. 

Cuny of Chicken-and-Celeiy 

Have ready a cup of cooked celery (cut in half-inch 
slices and simmered till tender in water to cover) and a 
cup and a half of cooked chicken, cut m small pieces. 
Melt foiu: tablespoonfuls of butter and in it cook two 
slices of onion until yellowed and softened, but not 
browned; take out the onion, add one level tablespoon- 
ful of curry powder, four level tablespoonfuls of flour, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, and a slight dash of paprika; 
stur imtil frothy and bubbling, then add one cup of chicken 
broth, three-fourths a cup of nut milk (or plam milk 
without the admixture of nuts) and two rounding table* 
spoonfuls of currant jelly; stir and cook until smooth 
and boiling, then add the chicken, celery and a table* 
spoonful of lemon juice. When the mixture boils it i& 
ready to serve. Plain boiled rice should accompany the 
dish, but crackers or toast may be used. For the nut 
milk grind one-half a cup of blanched almonds or a full 
cup of fresh coooanut, as fine as possdble, then add to a 
generous cup of milk scalded over hot water; let stand 
an hour or longer, then press through a piece of cheese- 
cloth. Tlie mUk found in the cocoanut may be used. 

Hot Mottsseline of Chkkm 

H cap raw ducken breast % cup cooked chicken breast 

1 "sdiite of e^ 1 eg^white, beaten dry 

H cap double cream }^ cup cream, beaten firm 



FOULTBYi DOMESTIC GEBSB AND DUCKS 89 

Scrape enough pulp of raw chicken breast from the 
fibres to half fill acup; add an unbeaten white of ^g and 
pound smooth with a wooden pestle; add half a cup of 
cream and again pound until smooth, then use the pestle 
to press through a sieve. Chop and pound enough cooked 
chicken breast to make three-fourths a cup, press this 
through a sieve and add to the first mixture, then fold 
evenly and smoothly through this mixture the last white 
and last half cup of cream. Turn into individual molds, 
carefully buttered. Cook surrounded with boiling water, 
on many folds of paper, until firm. Serve unmolded 
with cream or Bechamel sauce to which half a can of 
buttered mushrooms have been added. Bechamel diauce 
is a ¥^te sauce in which the liquid is half chicken or 
veal broth and half cream. 

Pilau i la Turque 

1 cnprioe H teaspoooftil paprika 
^ cup butter 3 tablespoonf uu flour 
3 cups diidceii broth H teaspoonf ul salt 

H cup tomato purge H teaspoonf ul pepper 

2 tnmnches panley 1 cup ^cken broth 
1 onion witn 3 cloves ^ cup tomato pur^ 
1 teaspoonful salt 1 cup cooked chicken 

3 taUespoonf uls butter 1 cup cooked ham 

Put the rice over a quick fire in a quart or more of cold 
water, and stir with a fork while heating the water to the 
boiling point; let boil three minutes, drain and rinse witii 
cold water on a ^ve; return the blanched rice to the 
fire with the butter; stir and cook until the butter is 
absorbed; add the broth, tomato, parsley, onion, salt 
and paprika and let cook over boiling water until the 
liquid is absorbed and the rice tender; remove the onion 
and parsley. Melt the butter; in it cook the flour and 
seasonmgs; add the broth and pur4e and stir until boil* 
ing; then add the chicken and ham and let become very 
hot. Dispose the rice as a border on a serving dish, turn 



60 XVALCOOKBMXK 

the meat into the center and serve at onoe. The chicken 
and ham should be in very thin slices. 

Chicken llmbales 
{Cooked chicken) 

m 

2 eggs, wdl beaten H teaspoonf ul salt 

1 cup cooked chidcen ^ teaspoonful pepper 

}i cup solt bread cnimfas 1}^ cups thin cream or liditiiilk 

The chicken should be chopped fine and the crumbs 
ofted. Add all the ingredients to the eggs. Mix thor- 
oughly. Bake m eight small, buttered timbale molds 
until firm in the center. The timbales will take from 
twenty to thirty minutes to cook. Set the molds on 
many folds of paper in a pan and surround with boiling 
water. The water should not boil after the timbales are 
set in the oven. Serve unmolded with two cups of sauce 
made of one-fomrth a cup, each, of butter and flour, half 
a teaspoonful, each, of salt and pepper and one cup, each, 
of chicken broth and cream. 

Jellied Turkey 

After all the large slices of meat have been removed 
from a cold, roast turkey, pick off all the small pieces; 
carefully slice such as are at all thick and trim each piece 
neatly. Have ready a cold, hard-cooked ^g, cut length- 
wise into eight pieces, and enough clarified chicken broth 
or consomm^ to fill the dish in which ^he meat is to be 
molded. For a quart of broth and nearly that quantity 
of sliced turkey, take half a two-ounce package of gelar 
tine; pour over it a cup of cold broth and, wh^i this is 
absorbed, add the rest of the broth and let become very 
hot. Cool the broth. Have ready a pan with crushed 
ice and water; in this chill a three-pint melon mold, pour 
in a little of the liquid broth and turn the mold to coat it. 



POULTBYy DOBfESTIC GEESE AND DUCKS 61 

Dip the pieces of egg in half-set broth (aspic) and set them, 
one at a time, against the mold to form a definite design; 
with a larding needle take up chilled capers and set them 
aromid the pieces of egg, then add a little half Hset aspic 
to hold them in place. When the decorations are held 
firmly in place, add pieces of turkey and half-set aspic, 
alternately, to fill the mold. Unmold on a serving dish; 
garnish with cubes of tomato jelly and hearts of lettuce, 
cut in quarters. Serve French or mayonnaise dressing in 
a bovrL 

dicken Croquettes 

^ cap butter 1 cup chicken broth 

^ cup flour H cup cream 

)^ teaspoonful salt 1 egg, beaten lieht 

}j|tea8pooDful pepper IH cups cooked chickeiiy cut very Bne 

Make a sauce of the first six ingredients; add the e^ 
and let cook without boiling until the egg is set; stir in 
the chicken; additional seasoning, as chopped parsley, 
celery salt, or onion juice (one or all), may be added at 
pleasure. Turn on to a plate and cover with buttered paper. 
When cold shape into balls, cylinder or other shapes. 
Boll in sifted, soft bread crumbs, then cover with beaten 
^g, diluted with three or four tablespoonfuls of milk or 
water, and again roll in crumbs. Fry in deep fat, about 
four at a time. Serve with peas, or peas and shreds or 
slices of carrot mixed together. 

ScaOoped Chicken and Zotnlet 

For a can of komlet or two cups of com pulp'canned at 
home, and one cup of chicken or veal, chopped fine, make 
one cop and a half of white or tomato sauce. [Butter 
an au gratin dish, or a dozen individual dishes. Put 
the three articles into the receptacle, in layers, havmg the 
first,of komlet and the last of sauce. Use komlet as the 
alternate layer, each time. Let bake from ten to fifteen 



62 AM^CWMTANMr 

minutes. Serve hot as the chief dish at sapper or luncheoxL 
Fresh com may be used when in season. Score the ker- 
nels lengthwise ol the rows, with the back of a knife press 
out the pulp and leave the hulls on the ear. A covering 
of three-fourths a cup of cracker crumbs mixed with one- 
fourth a cup of melted butter is an improvement. 

Adelaide Patties 

^ cup Sutter ^ teaspoonf ul pepper 

1 cup fresh mushrooms 1 cup diicken Ivoth 

(caps broken in pieces) i^ cup cream 

^ cup flour 1 cup cooked chicken in cubes 

H teaspoonf ul salt 1 cup cooked peas 

Melt the butter; in it cook the pieces of mushroom, 
about two minutes; add the flour and seasonings and cook 
until absorbed by the butter; add the broth and cream 
and stir until boiling; add the chicken and peas and heat 
over boiling water. Use to fill patty-cases made of puff- 
paste. The cases may be made in advance, and then 
reheated and filled at time of serving. Puff-paste made of 
half a pound, each, of butter and flour will make six cases 
of the usual size. The mixture given above is sufficient 
for eight or ten cases. 

Roast Goose, German St;yle 

Rub a carefully dressed young goose, infidde and out, 
with salt, pepper, sage, thyme and sweet marjoram and 
let stand overnight. Mix three cups of soft (stale) bread 
crumbs, half a cup of cleaned currants, half a cup of 
stoned raians, a sour apple, peeled, cored and chopped, 
one hot, cooked potato, pressed through a sieve, half a 
cup of melted butter, half a teaspoonf ul of salt and a little 
pepper, and use to fill the goose; truss and roast in the 
usual manner. Serve with a giblet sauce and a '' com- 
pote '' of cherries (canned or preserved chories). 



POULTBT, DOMESTIC OEESE AND DUCKS 63 

Roast Dodding (Domestic) 

Truss the duckling in the same manner as a chicken 
or goose; remove the gall bladder from the liver and put 
the liver inside the duck. Rub the outside with salt and 
pepper and spread with dripping; let cook about an hoiur 
and a half or until the flesh is very tender. Baste every 
ten minutes, dredging with flour after each basting. When 
done pour off the fat from the pan; add a cup of brown 
stock (beef and veal) and use to rinse the pan. JJae this 
in making a cup of thick brown sauce; add the juice of an 
orange and part of the peel, cut in very fine shreds. Serve 
with apple sauce or apple fritters and currant jelly sauce. 
Garnish the duck on the platter with half slices of orange. 

Larded Rabbit Baked with MQk 

One rabbit will serve from four to rax people. Cut off 
the head on a line with the shoulder bones. Remove the 
rib bones and as many layers of skin from the outside as 
is possible. Cut off the feet and scrape the flesh from as 
many tendons as are in sight, discarding the tendons. 
Wash in several waters, then wipe dry. Lard the whole 
upper surface with pork lardoons or, to save time, spread 
over the rabbit in the pan thin slices of larding pork. Set 
into a hot oven, baste, at first, with the fat in the pan, 
then lower the heat and baste with hot milk; dredge 
with flour after each basting. Let cook from one hour 
to one hour and a half, or until tender. Melt one-fourth 
a cup of butter; in it cook one-fourth a cup of flour, half 
& teaspoonful, each, of salt and paprika, then add one- 
fourth a cup of cold milk and the milk drained from the 
baking pan. Dispose the rabbit on a hot dish. Set 
around it from four to six cup-shaped rice croquettes,' each 
holding a teaspoonful of ciurant jelly; between the cro- 
quettes set rolls of bacoUi fried in deep fat or cooked in 



64 KVALCOOKBOOK 

the ovesL Rim a wooden toothpick through each roll to 
hold it iQ shape while baking. Serve the sauce in a bowL 

Rabbit H la Marengo 

Separate a carefully washed and dried rabbit into eight 
pieces, four legs and four body pieces. Discard rib bones 
and all tendons possible. Season the pieces with pepper 
and salt and roll in flour. Heat equal parts (about three 
tablespoonfulsy each), of clarified butter and olive oil in a 
frying pan; put in the joints of rabbit and let cook, turn- 
ing when needed, to a golden brown. Drain the fat from 
the pan, add one-fourth a cup of Sauteme and let this 
reduce. Heat three tablespoonfuls of fat from the pan, 
stir in three tablespoonfuls of flour, half a teaspoonf ul of 
salt and one-f otu*th of pepper, then add three-fourths a 
cup, each, of tomato pur^ and rich brown stock, flavored 
with vegetables and herbs. Pour this over the rabbit and 
let simmer forty-five minutes. Dispose a flat bed of 
mashed potato on a serving dish; on this set the pieces of 
rabbit; skim all fat from the sauce and strain it over the 
rabbit. Set some crescent-shaped croutons of bread 
around the edge. Peeled mushroom caps, with a bit of 
butter in the center of each, baked ten minutes, may be 
set in groups between the croutons. 



CHAPTER VI 

MEATS 

Meat is an expensive article of food, and careless cook- 
ery that is wasteful of nourishing properties and fails to 
bring out latent juiciness and flavor cannot be condemned 
too strongly. The cheaper the cut of meat the greater 
the care necessary in its cookery. With roast or broiled 
beef or poultry, high heat at first to sear over the outside 
and keep in the juices, then low heat till the cooking is 
completed is the general rule. Pork, veal and lamb, all * 
of which should be cooked more thoroughly than beef, 
should be set to cook in a moderate oven; the centerof 
such roasts must show no pinkness or half coagulated 
juices. The tough fibers of the cheaper cuts of meat call 
for moistiure and gentle heat, long continued. To insure 
tenderness all meat as well as poultry and game must 
have been '^ himg " a proper length of time. Meat may be 
kept longer when high flavor is to be developed in the 
cooking process, as in roasting and broiling, than when 
boiling or stewing is to be the method of cooking. " Made 
over " dishes of meat require skillful handling. The meat 
must be reheated quicklv — protected from strong heat 
by sauce or covering of some kind, or it must be treated 
like tough meat and simmered a long time until very 
tender. 

Sirloin Steak, TivoU 

Itemove the flank, superfluous fat and the chine bone; 
wipe with a damp cloth and set to broil over a quick fire 
and quite close to it. Turn the broiler each two seconds 



66 KYfiLCaOKBOOK 

for two minutes, then remove farther from the fire to finish 
the cooking. Cook a steak an inch and a half in thickness 
from eight to ten minutes. Set the steak on a hot platter 
and spread with Bemaise sauce. Above set half a pound 
of fresh mushrooms that were cooked while the steak was 
broiling. Discard the stems and peel the caps. Set these, 
fgiSL side up, in a buttered frying pan, drop a bit of butter 
in the center of each, cover and let cook in the oven. 

Bemaise Sauce 

Put two tablespoonfuls, each^ of fine-chopped green 
pepper and mild onion (shallot), and one-fourth a cup of 
vin^ar to simmer on the back of the range. When the 
moisture has nearly evaporated, add two tablespoonfuls of 
butter and the beaten yolks of three eggs. Set the sauce- 
pan in a dish of boiling water, then stir and let cook, adding 
twice, meanwhile, two more tablespoonfuls of butter. 
When the sauce thickens, season with salt and strain. 
The sauce may also be used without straining. 

Loin Roast of Beef 

Wipe with a damp cloth and set, skin ade down, on a 
rack in the meat pan; rub over with salt and flour. Set 
in a hot oven to sear over the surface and baste each ten 
minutes with fat in the pan or with fat from the top of a 
dish of soup; dredge with flour after each basting. Reduce 
the heat, after twenty minutes, and let cook from an hour 
and a quarter to an hour and a half or three-quarters, as a 
rare, medium rare or well done piece of meat is desired. 
Tmn the meat when half cooked. About half an hour be- 
fore removal from the oven, dispose around the meat in the 
pan potatoes pared and cooked fifteen minutes in boil- 
ing water. Baste the potatoes when the meat is basted. 
At no time should the fat in the pan be heated enough to 



HEATB 67 

buriL Meat cooked at too high a temperature is never 
satisfactorily cooked. 

Gravy and Sauce for Roast Beef| Lambi Veali etc. 

Platter gravy is the unadulterated juice of the meat 
which drops to the platter during carving. Brown sauce 
is made from the juices of the meat that have browned 
and adhered to the pan during the cooking of the meat. 
When the meat is done, remove it from the pan, pour off 
all the fat, then tmn into the pan about a cup and a half 
of beef broth or water, as is convenient. Return the pan 
to the fire and let the liquid simmer until the browned 
meat juices are taken up by the water. Put three table- 
spoonfuls of the fat or dripping into a small saucepan; 
when hot, add three tablespoonfuls of ordinary flour or 
twice the quantity of browned flour (flour cooked and 
stirred in the oven until brown thrbu^out) and one-fourth 
a teaspoonful of salt; stir and cook until frothy, then add 
the liquid from the pan, cooled a little, and stir until 
boiling. More salt may be needed. 

Fillet of Beef, Bouquet Fashion 

Remove all unedible portions from a fillet of beef and 
draw into the best surface three rows of salt pork lardoons 
(strips of fat salt pork one-eighth of an inch thick and 
wide and any length); cut the lardoons of good length 
that they may be tied in a single knot. Roast or poele the 
fillet as desired. If poeling be selected as the method of 
cooking, baste with melted glaze several times, at the 
last cooking, to secure a surface of high gloss. Have 
ready, cooked and hot, spme flowerets of cauliflower, 
balls of carrot and of potatoes, and about a cup of Ber* 
naise sauce. Dispose the hot vegetables around the meat 
on a serving dish. Serve the sauce in a bowl. After the 



68 XYfiLCOOKBffOK 

potato balls have been blanched and dried on a cloth, 
let them cook in the oven, in a little melted butter, to a 
golden browni shaking the pan occasionally to avoid 
burning. / 

Hamburg Roast 

2 lbs. beef (top of round) 1 tablespoonf ul chopped parsley 

}^ cup soft bread crumbs 1 tablespoonf ul chopped green 

1 egg, well beaten or red pepper, or 

1 teaspoonf ul salt ^ ^ teaspoonf ul paprika 

1 teaspoonf ul onion juice \i teaspoonf ul mace (at dis- 

.cretion) 

Mix all together thoroughly, shape into a compact roll, 
and put in baking pan, with slice of salt pork above. Baste 
with dripping. Bake from thirty to forty minutes. Serve 
with brown or tomato sauce. 

Tomato Sauce for Meats 

3 tablespoonf uls butter, browned 4 tablespoonf uls flour 

1 tablespoonf ul onion i H teaspoonf ul salt 

1 tablespoonf ul carrot] }^ teaspoonf ul pepper 

1 bundi parsley 1 cup tomato pur^ 

1 bit of bay leaf H <^up brown stock 

Chop the onion and carrot before measuring; cook these 
with.ihe parsley and bay leaf in the butter until well 
browned; add the flour and seasonings and cook until 
browned, then add the pur6e and stock and stir until 
boiling, then strain and it is ready to use. 

Pot Roast, with Currants 

Purchase at least four pounds of beef in a solid piece 
from the chuck vein or roimd; roll the meat in flour. 
Have ready some hot salt pork fat or fat from the top of a 
kettle of soup in a frying-pan; in this cook and turn the 
meat until it is seared and browned on all sides. - Set the 
meat into a saucepan or iron kettle (the latter is the most 
suitable utensil), pour in a cup of boiling water, sprinkle 



MEATB 60 

over the top of the meat about two-thirds a cup of dried 
raisms, cover the kettle close, and let cook where the water 
will sunplysiimnerTery gently; add water as needed, just 
enough to keep the meat from burning. The coyer should 
fit dose to keep in the moisture. Cook until the meat is 
Tery tender. It will take five or dx hours. Bemore the 
meat to a serving dish; stir into the liquid two level 
tablespoonfuls of flour and one-fourth a teaspoonful of 
salt, smoothed in about one-fourth a* cup of cold water; 
stir until boiling, let simmer ten minutes, then pour over 
the meat or serve in a dish apart. Serve at the same time 
plain boiled potatoes, ttunips or squash and cabbage. 
The currants may be omitted. 

Round Steak en Casserole 

Cut round steak in pieces about two inches square, roll 
in flour and let brown in salt-pork fat or dripping. Re- 
move to a casserole and add broth to cover. Add more 
fat to the pan and in it brown a small blanched onion for 
each service; add these to the casserole, cover and let 
cook about two hours or until nearly tender; add, for 
each service, two small strips of carrot and half a dozen 
cubes or bdls of potato, parboiled and browned in the 
frying pan, also salt and pepper as needed, and let cook 
until the vegetables are tender. Serve from the large 
dish or in individual casseroles made hot in boiling water. 

Swiss Steak 

3 lbs. round steak (1}^ inchies thick) Bit of bay leaf, if denred 
}i cup flour Boiling water 

2 tablespoonfuls butter Salt and pepper 

Pound the steak until the fiber is thoroughly broken up; 
add the flour while pounding. When the steak is tender, 
the flour should be thoroughly incorporated with the 



70 XVM. COOKBOOK 

meat. Melt the butter in a frying pan; put in the meat 
and let brown on one side, then turn and brown ihe 
other side. Add boiling water and let simmer from two 
to three hours. The bay leaf, if used, should be added 
with the water. 

Chili Con Came, Spanish Style 

To prepare the chili used in this dish: from two pods of 
dried red chili peppers take out all the seeds and discard 
them. Soak the pods in warm water to cover until soft, 
then scrape pulp from the skins into the water, discarding 
the skins and saving the pulp and water. Cut two pounds 
of round steak into small pieces, roll in flour and cook in 
hot flying pan, in pork drippings, until well browned; 
add three or four tablespoonf uls of flour and stir until 
browned, then add one clove of garlic in which two 
gashes have been cut, and the chili water, of which there 
should be about one pmt; let simmer until meat is tender 
(about two hours), adding hot water if needed. 

When done the sauce should be of good consistency; 
add salt to taste. 

Tenderloin Cuflets with Spaghettf 

1 pound beef tenderloin 1 cup spaghetti 

yi pound veal cutlet 3 tablespoonf uls butter 

H cup cooked bam 1 cup mushrooms 

% cup beef marrow 1 tablespoonf ul chopped onion 

^ cup cream 3 tablespoonf ub flour 

Salt and pepper 1 cup beef broth 

2 tabiespoomuls brandy ^ cup tomato pur6e 

yi cup grated cheese 

Chop the meat and marrow in a food-chopper; pound 
smooth with a pestle, then gradually pound in the cream 
and seasonings. Form into cutlet shapes. Weigh the 
meat after freeing it of all waste. It will make from eight 
to twelve cutlets. Dip in an ^g, beaten and diluted with 



IfSATO 71 

three tablespoonf Ills of milk, then roll m soft breadcrumbs, 
sifted; saut^S in clarified butter or olive oil. Serve on a 
bed of spaghetti. 

Spaghetti for Cutlets 

C!ook the spaghetti in boiling salted water until done; 
drain, rinse in cold water and drain agun. Melt the butter; 
in it cook the mushrocmis, peeled and broken in pieces, 
and the onion; add the flour, stir until blended, then add 
the broth and pur6e and stir until boiling; add the cheese 
and spaghetti; lift the spaghetti with a spoon and fork,, 
until well mixed, while making hot over boiling water. 

^ Beef Stew 

For a well-flavored stew select a piece of meat that con-* 
tains fat, bone and lean meat, the latter predominating. 
In this selection, everything depends on the number of 
people to be served. If meat is purchased in large quan- 
tity and one has a large sirloin roast, the flank end will 
make a choice stew. If seven or eight pounds of meat, 
enough to serve thirty people, are required, the aitchbone 
may be selected. This piece contains some very tender 
meat, and the joint may be served one day as a rare 
cooked roast, and then the rest be made into a stew. For 
a stew to serve six people, purchase two and one-half 
pounds of the '^ chuck "; cut it into small pieces, and 
brown part of the pieces in a little hot dripping. Coverthe 
rest of the meat with cold water and heat quickly to the 
boiling point; add the meat from the frying pan and turn 
some of the hot liquid into the pan; let it stand over the 
fire until the glaze is dissolved from the pan, then add to 
the meat. Cover and let simmer about two hours. Add 
two or three peeled onions, cut in slices, and one carrot, 
scraped and cut in slices, and let cook half an hour; then 
add five potatoes, pared, rinsed» parboiled and drained. 



72 MyALCaOKBeOK 

and let oook until the potatoes are tender, wken all 
akould be cooked. Add salt and pepper as needed and the 
stew is ready. Two and a half pounds from the hind 
shank of beef, which is largely lean meat and bene, may 
be used| if a marrow bone be added for additional marrow. 

Beefsteak Chowder 

1 lb. round steak 1 teaspooof ul salt 

2 inch cube salt poric H teaspooi^ul pepper 

1 onion lyi cups thin cream or ridi 

1 quart bcnling water MDk scaldedoyer hot water 

4 potatoes 

Cut the steak into strips an mch and a half long and 
half an inch thick and wide. Cut the pork, which should 
be fat, into tiny bits, and cook until the fat is well tried 
out; add the onion cut in very thin slices, and stir and cook 
until the onion is softened and yellowed. Add the boiling 
water, let simmer five minutes, then strain over the pieces 
of steak; let boil five minutes, then simmer until the meat 
is tender. Pare the potatoes, cut in thin slices, and let 
oook in boiling water five minutes; drain, rinse in cold 
water and drain agam, then add to the meat with the 
salt and pepper. Add more water if needed to cover the 
potatoes. When the potatoes are tender add the milk or 
cream and additional seasoning if necessary. Serve with 
crackers. Left-over steak may be used. 

Pressed Com Beef 

Select a piece of beef containing some fat with the lean 
meat. Do not buy " fancy brisket " for this dish. Cover 
with cold water and let cook at a gentle simmer xmtil the 
meat is tender. Put the meat in a deep, narrow pan, set 
a board with weight above it and let stand in a cool place 
over night. Serve cold, sliced thin, with potato salad. 
Use the remnants in Creamed Corned Beef. Scald two 



L CUTLETS, POJABSKI, WITH STBUia BHANS. f Offe SO 



BONED Ij:a OF LAUB STUDDED WITH HAH. Pogt 7t 



BOILED LEO OP MUTTON, Pam Tfl 



BROILED EQCI-FLANT. PoQe la 



MEATS 73 

or three bUocs of onion and a stalk of celery in the 
used for the cream sauce. 



Ptjmumtli Succotash 

6 pounds oofiied beef Blaok pepper 

epounds'foid 3 pints pea beaoB 

5 auarts hulled com 5 potatoes 

Salt 1 turnip 

Boil the corned beef and fowl, separately, until tender; 
when cold, remove the fat from the liquid and heat the two 
dishes of broth together; add the hulled com (white or 
yelV)w kernels of com cooked with lye to remove germ, 
then cooked tender inwaterwithout lye), add salt and pep- 
per as needed and let simmer one hour and a half. Stew 
the beans in a separate saucepan, then strain into the 
broth, etc. One hour before serving boil the potatoes 
and turnip (cut in rather small piecei^) until done, then 
add with the water to the above; add the chicken and 
corned beef, in small pieces, and when hot throughout the 
dish is ready. 

Corned Beef Hash 

Chop fine an equal quantity of cold corned beef and 
boiled potatoes; stir in a little broth or boiling water and 
turn into hot salt pork fat or dripping in a hot frying pan; 
stir and cook until hot throughout, then let stand to color 
and crust slightly on the bottom. Turn on to a hot serv- 
ing di«h^ 

Frizzled Beef 

Heat two tablespoonf uls of butter or bacon fat in a 
frying pan. Add about one-fourth a pound (a cup packed 
loosely) of thinnsliced dried beef and stir and cook until 
well heated. Serve at once on a hot dish. Dried, smoked 
beef is often frizzled before it is added to cream sauce. 



74 KYfiLCmKBMK 

Baked Tripe, Spanish Style 

Bofl four pounds of fresh tripe until tender; drain and 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, and arrange in a well but- 
tered dish. Pour over it one quart of chopped tomatoes, 
one large onion, sliced very thin, one-half a cup of chopped 
parsley, skin of one large red pepper, minced fine, one- 
half a cup of chopped olives and one teaspoonf ul of Tabasco 
sauce. Pour over all one-half a cup of melted butter, and 
bake one hour. 



Broiled Tripe widi Bacon Rolls 

Simmer fresh tripe in boiling water until very tender 
(it will take five or rax hours of cooking), add salt during 
the last of the cooking. Drain, and set aside in a covered 
dish until ready to use. Brush over the portion to be used 
(honeycomb toipe is considered the best) with partly 
melted butter or bacon fat, and set to cook over the coals 
or under the gas burner. Let cook three or four minutes, 
then remove to a hot platter, season with a little salt, if 
needed, and spread over the top as many slices of broiled 
bacon as there are individuals to serve. Bacon rolls may 
replace the broiled bacon. To prepare these, run a tooth- 
pick through each slice of bacon, rolled up like a jelly roll, 
immerse all at once (in a basket) in hot, deep fat. Let cook 
a minute, then drain, and use as specified. A quarter of a 
lemon should accompany each portion. 

''Hot Pot'' Mutton or Lamb 

2H lbs. Iamb (fore quarter) Salt and pepper 

6 potatoes Butter 

1 onion 

Cut the meat into pieces for serving; dredge them with 
flour and saut^ in a little hot fat, tried out of salt pork or 
bacon. Cut the potatoes in slices one-fourth an inch 
thick and parboil five minutes; drain, rinse in cold water 



MEATS 75 

and drain again. Cut the onion in slices and parboil 
fifteen minutes, then driun and rinse in cold water. Put 
a layer of meat in a casserole, add a layer of potato and of 
onion, and continue the layers until all are used. Pour 
in a pint of broth or hot water. Have the last layer pota- 
toes, and put them in so that one slice slightly overlaps 
another. Season the layers with salt and pepper. Add 
a few bits of butter to the last layer of potatoes. Let cook 
covered about three hours in a slow oven. Remove the 
cover to let the potatoes brown about half an hour. 

Boned Leg of Lamb Studded with Ham 

Bone a leg of lamb. Fill the center with bread dressing, 
seasoned with onion and green pepx)er. Sew the leg into 
good shape. Cut raw ham into strips an inch long and 
one-third of an inch thick. With a pointed knife make 
small incisions in regular rows over both sides of the meat 
and into these press the strips of ham. In the pan of a 
double roaster put the fat from the ham, chopped fine, 
and two or three tablespoonfuls of dripping; when hot 
put in the lamb, two onions and two carrots, sliced, also 
three branches of parsley. Set over the fire and let all 
brown, turning as needed to brown imif ormly. Pour over 
about a quart of hot beef or veal broth, or half and half of 
each. Set the pan in the covered receptacle and let cook 
in a slow oven about three hours. Remove the meat to a 
hot dish, strain off the liquid, season as needed and serve 
in a sauce boat. The sauce may be thickened with flour 
made smooth in water, if desired. The lamb thus prepared 
may also be roasted. 

Bread Dressing for Boned Lamb or for Stoflbig Chi^en 

or Turkey 

Crumble stale bread, freed of crust, by rubbing'it through, 
a colander. To two cups (well pressed down) add half a 



76 MMLGOacBOMC 

cup of melted butter, one or two tableepoonfuls of fine« 
chopped green or red pepper, one tablespoonf ul of parsley, 
about a teaspoonf ul of onion pulp (scraped from an onion 
cut in halves), a teaspoonful of crushed thyme and half a 
teaspoonful, each, of salt and black pepper. Mix all 
together thoroughly. 

Boned Loin of Lamb, Roasted 

Have a loin of yearling lamb freed from bones and con- 
siderable of the flank cut off. Spread the meat, skin side 
down (the skin, however, should be removed as it is strong 
flavored), on a board; over it spread bread dressing fla- 
vored with a little onion, or the inside of the meat may be 
rubbed with an onion cut in halves; roll the meat and tie 
in four or five places with narrow strips of cloth. Set to 
cook in«a hot oven; baste frequently with hot dripping 
and cook about half an hour. Set the meat on a hot plat- 
ter, pipe Lima bean purte around it and serve at once. 
Serve at the same time a fresh vegetable salad with 
French dressing. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton (Tearling), Caper Sauce 

The leg may be hung in a steam kettle containmg 
boiling water; it will take about four hours to cook 
tender. To boil, cover with boiling water, let boil rapidly 
ten minutes, then let simmer until tender. The time of 
cooking will be about the same as for steaming. Lamb 
or mutton for boiling or steaming should be quite fresh. 
For the sauce, melt one-fourth a cup of butter; in it cook 
one-fourth a cup of flour and half a teaspoonful of salti 
then add two cups of cold water, or liquid in which the 
meat was cooked cooled for the piupose; stir until boiling, 
then gradually beat in two or three tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter (in bits), add also two or three tablespoonfuls of capers* 



MEATS 77 

Spread the top of the meat, set on a serving dish, with a 
little of the sauce, sprinkle tiie sauce with capers and serve 
the rest of the sauce in a bowl. 

China Chflo 

2 lbs. scn^ end of lamb 1 cup dried flageolet 

2 onions, in slices 1 rant boiling water 

1 head lettuce, in shreds Salt and paprika 

Select yearlmg lamb, cut the meat into small pieces, 
discarding all superfluous fat. Add the other in^k*edient8 
(the beansshould havebeensoakedover nightanddrwied). 
Let simmer until the meat is tender. It will take about 
three hours. More water may be needed, but when the 
meat is done there should not be a large quantity of 
broth. Flageolet are green-colored French beans; other 
varieties of beans, as kidney or Uma, may albo be used. 

Lamb Chops k la Diable 

Spread the eye of the chops, on both sides, lightly with 
*' made '' mustard (ground mustard mixed to a paste 
with a few grains of sugar, and vinegar and boiling water^ 
half and half) ; roll in sifted, soft bread crumbs, cover with 
an egg, beaten with four tablespoonf uls of milk or water, 
and again roll in soft bread crumbs. Let stand to dry a 
little, then shake, to remove superfluous crumbs, and fry 
in deep fat. Let fry about six minutes. Drain on soft 
paper. Serve, around a moimd of macaroni k I'ltalienne, 
or peas and slices of carrot, dressed with salt, pepper, a 
teaspoonf ul of sugar and two or three tablespoonf uls of 
butter. 

Breaded Lamb Chops, Baked 

Wipe the chops very carefully, to remove bits of bone 
that may be present. Dip in soft bread crumbs (sifted), 
then in an eggy beaten and diluted with one-fourth a cup 



78 XYM COOK BOCK 

of milk or water, and then in bread crumbs, seasoned with 
salt and pepper. Dispose on a buttered baking sheet. 
Bake from fifteen to twenty minutes. Serve around a 
mound of cooked peas, seasoned with salt, black pepper 
and butter. Serve with Wargrave sauce in a boat. 

Waigrave Sauce 

To one cup and a half of brown sauce add a dessert 
spoonful, each, of red currant jelly, Harvey's sauce, mush- 
room ketchup and tomato pur^; also a rounding table- 
spoonful, each, of gherkins, mushrooms, ham, and tcmgue 
cut in Julienne shreds. 

Mixed Grill 

(For use in lunch zooms and restaurants) 

Have ready one lamb chop, one or two (according to 
size) pork sausages, four chicken-livers, cut in halves, three 
slices of bacon, cut in small pieces (about three, each) and 
a small bunch of washed-and-dried cress. Cover the 
sausage with boiling water and let simmer about ten 
minutes, then remove to a broiler; push the pieces of bacon 
and liver, alternately, on a skewer, and set in place on the 
broiler; add the carefully wiped chop to the broiler, and 
let cook over a rather duU fire, removing each article from 
the broiler when it is done. The sausage will be cooked 
first. Set the cress on one end of the plate, push the ar- 
ticles from the skewer upon the plate, adjust a paper frill 
on the chop bone, set this and the sausage in place and 
serve at once as a single service. 

Other combinations for '' mixed grill '' might include: 
lamb chop, sausage, chicken-livers and bacon; lamb chop, 
kidney, slice of ham, maitre d'hdtel; beef tenderloin, 
sausagCi chicken-livers and bacon; Hamburg steak, sau- 



HEATS 79 

sage, tripe, bacon; Hamburg steak, slioe of ham, two slices 
of tomato; lamb chop, lamb's liver and bacon, sausage. 

Brown Fricassee of Veal 

Cut veal steak in pieces for serving; roll in flour and 
set to cook in hot fat tried out from salt pork; when the 
veal is browned on one side, turn to brown the other side, 
then add light broth or water to cover and let cook at a 
gentle simmer about one hour. Stir one-fourth a cup of 
flour (for each pint of liquid), half a teaspoonful of salt, 
and one-fourth a teaspoonful of pepper with cold water 
to form a smooth thm paste; add to the meat, stir until 
boiling, and let simmer ten to fifteen minutes, when the 
dish is ready to serve. A little tomato pur^ is a good 
addition to the sauce. 

Veal Pot Ke 

Wipe a piece of veal from the shoulder, and cut it into 
pieces for serving. Add a half-inch strip of salt pork or 
bacon for each piece of veal. Cover with cold water, put 
over the fire, and bring quickly to the boiling point. 
Then, after boiling five minutes, skim, and let simmer until 
the meat is tender. When nearly tender, add salt and pep- 
per to season, and, if desired, potatoes, pared, parboiled 
five minutes, drained, rinsed in cold water, and drained 
agam. Have ready a steamer of boiling water. On the 
rack, thoroughly buttered, place some rounds of biscuit 
dough. Let these cook fifteen or twenty minutes, covered 
closely, and without allowing the water to stop boiling. 
Serve the dumplings on the ends of the platter on which 
the stew is dished. 



Pass through a sieve, together, two or three times, two 
cups of flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, and four level tea* 



80 

ipooofab of baldiig powder. Ifiz to a dou^ with aboot 
one ciq> <d sweet milk. Tben pat into a dieet^ and eat 
into loonda. 

Veal Cuilete, IVijaidd St^ 

Bun one pound of veali freed of all unediUe portions, 
through a meat-ehc^yper twice. Add half a tea^wonful of 
salti one-fourth a teaspoonful, or morey of pi^nika and as 
much thick cream Qialf a cup or more) as can be mixed 
throu^ the meat without making it too soft to handle. 
Wet the hands in cold water and form the meat into az 
or more cutlet shapes. These should be less than half an 
inch thick. Pat these on both sides in flour and saut6 in 
hot fat tried out of fat salt pork. When browned on one 
side turn to brown the other cdde. Fresh halibut is particu- 
larly good prepared by this recipe. Kther veal or fish 
cutlets may be " ^ged-and-crumbed '' before frying. 

Veal Balls in Cuixy SanM 

IH IbB* ntw veal M teaspoonfol pepper 

2 8!ioe8baocnior ix^ }j cup cream or broth 

1 cup soft sifted bread crumbs 2 welt>beaten eggs 
1 teaspoonf ul salt 1 tablespoonful scraped onioii 

1 tablespoonful diopped parsley 

Pass the meat through a food chopper, add the other 
ingredients^ mix thoroughly and shape into balls about 
an inch and a half in diameter. Boll the balls in flour, 
saut^ in hot salt pork fat or butter until well browned on 
all sides. Remove the balls to a casserole; add butter if 
needed and when hot cook in it one-fourth a cup of flour, 
a tablespoonful of curry powder and half a teaspoonf ul of 
salt, then add two cups of milk or stock and stir until 
boiling, and strain over the balls; cover and let simmer 
nearly an hour. Serve in the center of a ring of hot 
boiled rice. 



MSAT8 81 



Mock Sweetbreads wifli Ptir6e, etc. 

1 lb. veal pulp K cup butter 

2 eggs }4 teaspoonf ul salt 

1 cup soft bread crumbs ^ teaspoonf ul pepper 

1 cup rich milk or white broth }i cup double 



Scrape veal steak cut from the round to get one pound 
or two cups of pulp, as free as posdble from fibers. Pound 
the pulp in a wooden bowl with a pestle. Add the eggs, 
one at a time, pounding the first smoothly into the pulp 
before the second is added. Ck)ok the crumbs in the broth 
or milk to a smooth, thick paste, let cool, then poimd into 
the veal; pound in also the butter, salt, pepper and cream. 
When the mixture is very smoothly and evenly blended, 
press it through a aeve, using the pestle. Form into eight 
or ten oval shapes, the size of a veal, heart sweet^ 
bread split in halves. Set these in a buttered dish; pour 
over a CUp of hot veal or chicken broth, two or three 
slices of bacon, cut in bits, a few mushroom trimmingSy 
two slices of onion, half a teaspoonful of salt and a chili 
pepper; cover with a buttered paper and let cook about 
an hour (a covered casserole may be used). Strain off 
the broth and add tomato purfe and rich broth to make 
one pint; use this with one-fourth a cup, each, of butter 
and flour in making a sauce. Set the mock sweetbreads 
on thin shapes of hot chestnut, sweet potato, green pea 
or Lima bean pur6e. These should emerge beyond the 
meat half an inch on all sides. Pipe pur^e on the edge 
around the meat. Dispose hot peas, seasoned with salt, 
black pepper, butter and a teaspoonful of sugar, at the 
cddes or ends of the dish. Serve the sauce in a bowl. 

V^;etable Purie for Mock Sweetbreads 

Press the hot cooked vegetable through a ricer, add 
butter, salt, pepper and cream or rich milk as is needed 
to make a mixture that will pass smoothly througjh a pastry 



82 KVALCQOKBWX 

bag and tube. Beat the mixture with a slitted woodea 
spoon until very light and fluffy. 

Veal Loaf 

Chop fine (use a food chopper) one pound and a half of 
veal steak, and about two ounces of fat salt pork or bacon; 
add one egg and the yolk of another beaten lighti one pi- 
miento, chopped fine, a tablespoonful of fine-ohopped 
parsley, half a teaspoonf ul of powdered thyme, two table- 
spoonfuls of thick cream or one-fourth a cup of sauce 
(cream, tomato or similar sauce), half a teaspoonful, each, 
of salt and paprika, a grating of nutmeg and two crackers 
rolled fine; mix all together in a compact roll; set into a 
baking pan on a slice of salt pork, with asliceof porkabove. 
Bake about two hours, basting often with hot fat; reduce 
the heat after fifteen minutes. Serve cold, sliced thin, with 
potato or green salads. 



Braised Calf s Lii 

'Cut matchlike strips of pork from that portion of a piece 
of fat salt pork which lies just below the rind; draw these 
into the [best looking side of a calf's liver, or entirely 
through the liver. Put the trimmings of the pork into a 
frjdng pan, and, when the fat is well cooked out, put in 
the liver and cook until nicely browned, first on one side 
and then on the other. Set the liver in a casserole or an 
agate pudding dish. Cook two tablespoonfuls of flour in 
the hot fat; add about three cups of broth or water, and 
stir while heating to the boiling point. Pour this over the 
liver; add two sprigs of parsley, half a red pepper pod, a 
bunch of celery, cut in two-inch pieces, five or six car- 
rots, scraped and cut in lengthwise quarters, or in smaller 
pieces, if the carrots are large, and a half dozen onions 
peeled and browned in butter; cover and let cook two 



MEATS 83 

hours in the oven. Remove the liver to a serving dish^ 
and surround with the vegetables. Bemove any fat on 
the gravy, and pour over the whole. Half a cup of tomato 
pvLr6e or of wine may replace an equal quantity of broth. 

■ 

Calf's Liver, Hashed 

Cut one pound of calf's liver into slices and pour over it 
boiling water to cover; let stand five or six minutes, then 
drain, wipe on a cloth and chop fine. Melt a tablespoon* 
f ul of butter in a saucepan, put in the hashed liver, cover 
and let simmer very gently about one hour, stirring occa- 
sionally. Then add a dash of paprika, half a teaspoonful 
of salt and two or three tablespoonfuls of hot water or 
broth and serve when mixed thoroughly. Serve on rounds 
of buttered toast or with baked potatoes. 

Roast Spareribs of Pork 

Select a piece from young pork. If not too fat the ribs 
need not be trimmed, though the term " spare " would 
indicate that the skin and a layer of fat had been removed 
from the ribs. If the skin be left, score it for cutting in 
slices; this is easily done with a thin, sharp knife. Dredge 
with salt, pepper and flour and set to cook in a very moder* 
ate oven; let cook twenty minutes for each pound, bast* 
ing every fifteen minutes with the dripping in the pan. 
To be wholesome, pork must be thoroughly cooked. If 
set to cook in too hot an ov^ the outside will become 
seared over before the heat has penetrated the meat and 
the center will not be thoroug^y cooked. Serve with 
apple sauce. 

Siioulder of Pork, Boned, Staffed and Roasted 

Have the dealer remove the bones from a shoulder of 
young pig. Mix one cup of fine soft bread crumbs, one- 



84 xnnicomfBooK 

fourth a cap of melted butter, one-fourth a teaspoonf ul, 
each, of salti pepper, sage and thyme and use to fill the 
opening from which the bone was taken; take a few 
stitches to hold thediessmg within. Scorethe skinfor carv- 
ing, brush over with dripping, dredge with flour and set 
to bake in a moderate oven. Let cook about three hours, 
basting frequently. Prepare an apple for each service. 
For eight apples make a syrup of dne cup and a half, each, 
of sugar and water; in this cook the apples, turning often 
and watching constantly to keep the shape. When ten- 
der remove to' an agate dish, press blanched-and-halved 
almonds into the top of each apple, dredge with granu- 
lated sugar and set into the oven to brown. Let the syrup 
boil a little, and use to fill the centers of the apples, set 
around the pork on the platter. Slices of tomato, dredged 
with buttered cracker crumbs, baked in the oven or 
broiled, on rounds of toast, may be served on the dish 
with the apples or may replace them entirely. Plain apple 
sauce or sliced or stewed tomatoes may replace the more 
ornamental dishes suggested. 

Sttddng Pig, Roasted 

The pig may be from four to ox weeks old. One six 
weeks old, and weighing sbrtieen pounds, though rather 
long to handle easily, will be found most delicate eating. 
Wash, and wipe inside and out with care, rub over the 
inade with salt, and, if desired, black pepper. Fill the 
cavily with a bread or other dressing, and sew up the 
slit made in dressing the pig. Wrap the ears and tail 
curled over the back, in buttered papers, fastening each 
secure with a stitch. Put a cork in the mouth, to hold 
it open. Tie two or three strips of cotton round the pig 
to hold it in an upright position, resting on the l^s pressed 
forward. Bub the outside with salt and pepper, and dredge 
with flour. Set to cook in a moderate oven. Baste every 



MEATS 85 

fifteen minutes with the fat in the panorwithbuttermelted 
in hot water. Cook from three to four hours. Turn the 
pig occasionally, that all sides and the under part may be 
evenly cooked. Serve with apple sauce and cabbage, 
celery, apple or orange salad 

Bread Stuflbig for Roast Pig 

Cut the liver in slices. Over these poiur boiling water, 
and let stand ten or fifteen minutes, then drain. Add a 
dozen sage leaves, scalded in boiling water and drained, 
and three small, mild onions, parboiled until nearly tender 
and drained. Chop the whole very fine, then add ten or 
twelve oxmces of stale bread, pressed through a colander, 
a teaspoon! ul or more of salt, and a generous measure of 
black pepper (half a teaspoonf ul will be none too much for 
some tastes). Mix thoroughly, then mix again with one- 
third a cup of melted butter. A pig a month old will take 
more dressing than is here given, but possibly this quan- 
tity may suffice, as none is needed to keep the pig in shape. 

Boned Ham k la Ward McAllister 

Scrub the ham thoroughly. Cover with cold water, and 
heat to the boiling point. Let boil five minutes, then sim- 
mer six to seven hours. McAllister's rule was ''until 
you can turn the bone." A boned ham cannot be tested 
thus, but six hours of gentle simmering will suffice. Take 
the ham from the kettle, and set aside for twelve hoiurs. 
An hour before serving put it into a baking-pan, pour 
over a pint of hot cider, and set into a hot oven. Baste 
with the cider every five minutes. Reheat in the same 
manner each time before serving. " The oftener it is 
placed in the ov^i and heated, the better it becomes." 
When the ham is taken from the oven, dredge the fat, 
from which the skin has been taken, with granulated 



86 MYfiLCmmBOM 

sugaTi and then score it with a poker heated in the coals. 
Slices of pared*and-cored apple, cooked tender in syrup 
and drede^d with sugar, may be scored with the poker and 
used to garnish the dish. Serve apple sauce or apple-ond* 
cress salad in a dish apart. 

Ham Souffli 

2 tablespoon! Ills butter 2 cups mil&f 

1 slice onion ^ cup soft bread Gnimbs 

2 tablespoonf uls flour 2 cups chopped ham 
}j teaspoonf ul paprika 3 esgs 

Melt the butter; in it cook the onion without letting it 
take color, add the flour and paprika, and stir imtil well 
blended; add the milk, stir until smooth and boiling, 
and strain it over the crumbs and ham; add the yolks 
beaten light and fold in the whites of the eggs beaten dry. 
Turn into a buttered baking dish, set the dish into a pan 
of boiling water on several folds of paper. Bake about 
twenty-five minutes, or until firm in the center. Serve 
at once from the dish with tomato sauce. 

Cold Ham Mousseline 

}4 cup diopped ham \i teaspoonful salt 

}| cup hot diidcen stock ^ teaspoonful paprika 

yi tablespoonf ul granuLited }i cup double cream 

gelatine Peas and slices of truffle 

3 tablespoonf uls cold water 

Set a figure cut from a slice of truffle in the bottom of 
each of five timbale molds. Dispose a circle of cooked 
peas around the truffle and against the side of the mold. 
Sctften the gelatine in the cold water and dissolve in the 
chicken stock; set the molds in ice and water; put a 
few drops of tiie liquid around the peas to hold them in 
place; to the rest of the gelatme mixture add the ham, 
salt, pepper and truffle trimmings cut fine; stir over ice 
water until beginning to '' set,'' then fold in the cream 



MBATO 87 

beaten very light and turn into the decorated molds. 
When umiiolded serve with lettuce and French dressing* 



Fish, Ham, etc., with Lettuce 

Soften one-fourth a package of gelatine in one-fourth a 
cup of cold water, and dissolve in one cup and a fourth of 
hoty well seasoned broth. For fish, use fish or chicken 
broth; for ham or corned beef, use chicken or veal broth* 
Season the broth with carrot, parsley and onion — also 
sweet herbs if desired. Add about two cups of cooked 
ham or corned beef, chopped, or the same quantity of 
cooked fish, separated into flakes. Turn into molds. 
Serve unmolded, when cold, with lettuce and salad dress- 
ing. Cucumbers are good with the fish. 

Ham Cioqaettes 

li cup butter 1^ cups ridi milk 

}% cup flour 1 cup boiled rice 

^ "H teaspoonful salt (scant) 1 cup chopped ham 

i yi teaspoonful papnks 1 egg, beaten light 

Make a sauce of the butter, flour, seasonings and milk; 
add the ^g, cook until it thickens, but without boiling, 
then add tiie rice and ham (cooked). Mix thoroughly and 
turn on to a dish to become cold. Form into bails or 
cylinder shapes, roll in soft, sifted bread crumbs, then in a 
beaten egg diluted with three or four tablespoonfuls of 
milk or water, and again in crumbs. Fry in deep fat. 
Serve with peas, stewed tomatoes or tomato salad. 

Ham R^chaufffe, with Poached ]Qgg8 

Stir a cup of fine-chopped cooked ham into three- 
fourths a cup of hot white sauce; spread the nuxture on 
slices of toast moistened on the edge in boiling salted 
water and efpread with creamed butter into which a little 
mustard has been mixed. Set a poached ^g (only fresh- 



88 XYlkLCOaKBOOK 

laid eggs can be poached properly) on the top of each 
dice. Allow a tablespoonful of butter and one-foorth a 
teaspoonf ul of mustard for each slice of toast or for each 
two slices. 

Common Sausages 

Prick the skins repeatedly on all sides, cover with 
boiling water, and let simmer ten to fifteen minutes; 
drain off the water and let cook in the oven until weU 
browned. Serve with mashed or creamed potatoes. For 
luncheon, serve arouifid and against a mound of mashed 
potatoes; pipe mashed potatoes between the sausage; 
also pipe rosettes of potato above and set balls cut from 
carrots, seasoned and tossed in butter between the 
rosettes. There should be at least one carrot ball for 
each service. A^pound of sausage and a quart of mashed 
potato is needed for a handsome dish. 

Sausages ft la Portland 

Prick the casings of the sausages repeatedly with a 
needle or steel fork, to prevent bursting. Set them in a 
dish on the back of the range, add boiling water to cover, 
and keep them at a temperature of about 165^ F. from 
forty-five to ninety minutes, according to thickness. 
Dry on a cloth and broil over the coals. Serve on three 
slices of lightly buttered dry toast. Tomato sauce may 
be poured over if desired. 



Sausage, with Soubise Tomate 

Roll pork sausage meat, shaped in a bag, into flat cakes 
half an inch thick throughout. Dip these in melted bacon 
fat or butter and roll in soft, sifted bread crumbs, then 
broil over a slow fire. Pour tomato sauce, mixed with 
onion purfe, on a hot dish; dispose the sausage above* 
Serve at luncheon or supper. 



MBAtB 



Sauce Soubise Tomate 

Slice two mild onions and let cook in chicken broth or 
water until tender and the liquid is nearly evaporated; 
press the onions and broth through a very fine sieve. 
Add one-half the bulk of hot cream and an equal bulk of 
hot tomato sauce, also salt and pepper as needed. Do 
not boil after the cream and tomato are added. The 
onion pur6e should be quite consistent. 

Sausage Croquettes 

Season two cups of hot potato that has been pressed 
through a ricer with half a teaspoonful of salt, a few 
grains of paprika and one or two tablespoonfuls of butter; 
add the beaten yolk of an egg; mix and use to cover evenly 
some cold cooked sausage; shape by rolling on a board 
as with croquettes; dip in egg and roll in sifted bread 
crumbs; cook in deep fat. Drain on soft paper. 

Sausage, with Fried Cereal and Bananas 

Prick the required number of sausages freely with a 
fork, and set them, covered with cold water, in a sauce- 
pan over the fire. Let simmer ten minutes, then drain, 
and set into the oven to brown. Heat some fat, from a 
previous cooking of sausage, in an iron frying pan, and in 
it cook thin slices of cold breakfast cereal dredged with 
flour. Let the cereal 'become brown on one side, then 
turn, and let brown on the other side. At the same time 
have ready bananas removed from the sidn and cut in 
halves lengthwise, and then crosswise. Dredge these on 
both sides with flour, and let cook in the hot fat until 
brown on one side, then turn, that the other side may be 
browned. 



90 MmLOOOKBOM 

Sansages Bakedi with Creamed Potatoes 

Chop fine four cold, boiled potatoes; season slightly 
with salt and dispose in a deep au gratin dish. Pour in 
cream to come nearly to the top of the potatoes* Prick 
the casings of one pound of sausages and lower them in a 
fiying basket into a kettle of hot fat; count sixty, then 
remove and dispose over the potatoes. For a small 
frying kettle, cook the sausages in two lots, half a pound at 
a time. Pour over a cup of rather thick white sauce, one 
made with chicken or veal broth preferred. Use two and 
one-half tablespoonfuls of flour and two tablespoonfuls of 
butter to the cup of liquid. Cover the sauce with three- 
fourths a cup of cracker crumbs, mixed with three table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter. Let bake about fifteen min- 
utes. Serve for luncheon or supper. 

Bacony with Fried Bananas 

Set slices of bacon between the wires of a double broiler. 
Put the broiler in an oven over a dripping pan. Let cook 
until the fat is well drawn out. In tiie fat saut6 peeled 
bananas, scraped, cut in quarters and dipped in flour. 
Serve for breakfast or supper. 

Philadetphia Scrapple 

Cook a pig's head in boiling water until the flesh slips 
easily from the bones. Take out the bones, and chop the 
meat fine. When the liquor in which the head was cooked 
has become cold, remove the fat, and reheat the liquor 
to the boiling point. Add the chopped meat, a teaspoonful 
of salt for each quart of liquid, and pepper to taste, and 
heat again to the boiling point. Then sift in through the 
fingers of one hand, while stirring with the other, as ia 
making com meal mush, enough com meal to give the 
consistency of mush. Let boil vigorously several minutes^ 



BCBATS 91 

then set back on the range to cook more slowly half an 
hour. Stir occasionally. When cooked, turn into bread 
pans and set aside in a cool place. This may be kept 
several weeks in midwinter. When ready to use, cut into 
slices half an inch^ thick, and saut6 in butter, bacon fat or 
drippings. 

Venison, with Sprouts and Chestnut Pur£e 

Have ready some rounds of venison about an inch thick, 
cut from the fillet under the rump and broiled as any steak ; 
also pipe some chestnut pur6e on a serving dish; set the 
venison above and the sprouts at the ends of the dish. 
Pour Madeira sauce with slices of de beef marrow over 
the meat; or serve celery with Madeira sauce and mar* 
row at the same time. 

Puree* of Chestnuts 

Cut a half-inch slit in one side of the chestnut shells; 
let cook in boiling water two minutes, drain and dry. To 
each pint of nuts add a teaspoonf ul of butter or oil and 
stir and shake in the oven three or four minutes; then 
inserting the point of a knife in the slit made in the shell 
before cooking, remove shell and skin together. Keep 
the nuts covered while shelling is in process — to acceler- 
ate the work. Stew the shelled and blanched nuts very 
gently in consomm^ imtil tender. Press the nuts through 
a ricer or sieve; add cream, salt, pepper and butter; beat 
thoroughly over the fire, then pipe, as above, on a hot 
place. Whole cooked chestnuts are often served with 
sprouts in place of the pur^e. 

Brussels Sprouts ^ 

Free the sprouts of imperfect leaves, cover with cold 
water and let stand several hours to became crisp. Dram 



92 KYfiLCOOKMOOK 

and 8et to oook in boiling water slightly salted. Cook 
until tender; often they will cook in fifteen minutes, but 
sometimes considerably more time is required. Drain, 
add a generous piece of butter, a dash of salt and of pap- 
rika, and shake over the fire until the butter is evenly 
mixed through the sprouts. Turn on to a hot dish, 
Cfprinkle with fine-chopped parsley and add a few toast 
I)oints. Dip the pointed edges of liie toast in beaten white 
of egg and then in fine-chopped parsl^. Any sprouts 
left over will make a good siJad. 



CHAPTER Vn 

VBGBTABLES, HOMINT, MACAROm, ETC. 

Wilted vegetables should be freshened in cold water 
before cooking. 

Dried v^etables should be soaked in cold water several 
hours or overnight before cooking. 

All vegetables are set to cook in boiling water. 

All vegetables when done should be removed at once 
from the fire. 

m 

Some vegetableSi as spinach, asparagusi green peas, 
celery, tomatoes and others with but little starch should 
be simmered gently in very little wat^i and the liquid 
retained in the finished dish. 

Keep the water in which potatoes are cooking at the 
boiling point until the potatoes are done. 

Cook macaroni and rice in rapidly boiling water until 
done. 

Use a comparatively large quantity of water in cook* 
ing onions, cabbage and cauliflower; remove these vege* 
tables before all the crispness is gone. 

Add salt to the water in which aU vegetables save 
those containing much woody fiber are cooking. Carrots, 
parsnips, turnips and salsify should not be cooked ia 
salted water. 

After' potatoes are cooked and drained, sprinkle 
with salt, and leave partly uncovered; the salt will 
take up the extra moisture and leave the potatoes 
mealy. 



94 KMLOiOKBOOK 

Escaloped Potatoes and Onioiis 

Cut pared potatoes and peeled onions into very thin 
slices; dispose in alternate layers in a buttered baking 
dish, adding salt and pepper as desired. Pour on milk 
to cover the ingredients, and bake about three hours, 
adding more milk as needed. Fifteen minutes before 
serving, spread over the top two-thirds a cup of cracker 
crumbs mixed with one-third a cup of melted butter and 
let brown. This dish may be prepared with cooked 
potatoes and onions, when the cookii^ may be cut down 
to half an hour. 

French Fried Potatoes 

Pare potatoes of uniform size, cut each into quarters 
lengthwise, and the quarters into halves or thirds length- 
wise. Let stand several hours in cold water; drain and 
dry on a cloth. Set to cook in hot fat, a few at a time. 
Use a basket; when soft turn from the basket on to hot 
tissue or blotting paper. When all are cooked soft, re- 
turn them, a few at a time, to the reheated fat where 
they will quickly brown. Drain again on paper, sprinkle 
with salt and serve at once. 



Potatoes ft la Bral 



I K 1 1 1 »^. I ) 1 1 



Pare, boil and mash six potatoes of medium size, then 
season with pepper and salt. Add two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, and sufficient cream or milk to make the mixture 
of the consistency usually sought for in mashed potato. 
When thoroughly beaten, add one-third an onion, grated, 
or a tablespoonful of onion juice, one tablespooniful of 
chopped parsley and four tablespoonfuls of fine-chopped 
ham. Put the mixture into a buttered pudding dish; 
cover the top with half a cup of cracker crumbs that have 



VEGETABLES! HOMINT AND MACABONI, ETC. 95 

been stirred into one-fourth a cup of melted butter, and 
bake about fifteen minutes. 

Potatoes Cooked in Milk 

Melt three tablespoonfuls of butter in an agate pan; 
add a pint of cold, boiled potatoes cut in thin slices; 
sprinkle with half a teaspoonful of salt, and turn the 
potatoes carefully over and over to mix them with the 
butter. Add about three-fourths a cup of milk, cover and 
let cook slowly until the milk is nearly absorbed. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 

Melt three tablespoonfuls of butter in a frying pan. 
Add a tablespoonful and a half of chopped or grated onion; 
stir and cook until the onion is softened and yellowed, 
then add a pint of cold, boiled potatoes cut into cubes or 
slices. Stir until the potato has absorbed the butter and 
browned slightly. Sprinkle with half a teaspoonful of 
salt, a dash of pepper and a tablespoonful of fine-chopped 
parsley. Mix thoroughly and serve in a hot dish. 

Hashed Brown Potatoes 

Chop six cold, boiled potatoes fine, adding salt and 
pepper. Put one-fourth a cup of fat into the frying pan, 
and, when hot, put in the prepared potatoes, and heat 
quickly. Press the potato into one side of the pan, and 
let brown on the bottom. When well browned, drain off 
superfluous fat, if there be any, and turn the potatoes 
on to a dish, the browned side up. Bacon fat or fat tried 
out from salt pork is usually prrferred for this dish. 

Grilled Potatoes 



Cut cold, boiled potatoes in halves, lengthwise, and 
brush each piece on both sides with melted butter, olive oil 



96 JtMLOOOKJBOOK 

or white bacon fat; set into a double broiler and let cook 
over a moderate fire, turning ofteui until hot through- 
out and somewhat browned. Set on a hot dish, sprinkle 
with salty spread with creamed butter and serve at once* 
Sweet potatoes may be cooked in the same way. 

Brdled Tomatoes 

Cut the tomatoes in halves crosswise without removing 
the skins. Brush with butter generously, and sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Then sprinkle with buttered 
cracker crumbs; put into a well-oiled oyster broiler, and 
1^ broil over a moderate fire. These may be baked in 
the oven or broiled under a gas flame. They should be 
removed from the heat as soon as tender, before the shape 
is injured. 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

Mix one cup and a half of soft bread crumbs with one- 
third a cup of melted butter. Take a generous pint of 
canned tomatoes. Put a layer of the tomatoes into a 
baking dish suitable to send to the table; sprinkle on a 
few bits of fine cut green pepper, a teaspoonf ul of fine- 
chopped parsley and a little salt. Scrape on a little 
onion pulp. Add a layer of the crumbs. Continue 
in the same way until the ingredients are used, having 
the last layer crumbs. Bake about twenty minutes. If 
desired a little sugar — about a teaspoonf ul — may be 
sprinkled ov^ each layer of tomatoes. 

Tomatoes & la St Jacques 

8 small tomatoes Salt and pepper 

l}^ cups mushroom caps ^ cup eradKer crumbs 

1 cup white sauce }% cup melted butter 

1 teaspoonf ul fiDe<hopped parsley 2 tabtespoooluls Pannesaa cheese 

Remove a round piece about the stem end of the to-* 
matoes, and scrape out the seed portions. Season inside 



V1BGETABLE8, HOlimT AND ICAGABONI, BTa 97 

with salt and pepper. Peel the mushroom caps; leave 
them whole if small button mushrooms, if large, break 
in pieces. SautS in a little butter, then stir into a cup of 
white sauce made with milk or stock; add the parsley 
and salt and pepper as needed and use to fill the toma* 
toes. Stir the crumbs into the butter and cheese and use 
to spread over the mixture in the tomatoes. Bake about 
twelve minutes. Serve on rounds of toast. 

Tomato Creole 

Cut in halves, crosswise, six large^ fine tomatoes. 
Place in a buttered baking pan, and sprinkle over them 
two green peppers, fine-chopped, one teaspoonful of 
chopped onion, two tablespoonfuls of butter, in small 
pieces, and a liberal seasoning of salt and paprika. Let 
cook in the oven. lift the tomato slices on to roimds of 
buttered toast. Then add to the liquor left in the bak- 
ing pan two tablespoonfuls of butter and two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, melted and browned. Stir well with 
a wire whisk. Add one cup of cream. Let it boil up. 
Then strain over tomatoes and toast. 

Stewed Tomatoes and Com 

Peel four or five ripe tomatoes, cut in slices and set over 
the fire to simmer gently until the water is somewhat 
evaporated and the pulp is tender; add about half a 
teaspoonful, each, of paprika or black pepper and salt, 
and half a cup of green com pulp, and let cook about ox 
minutes, covered. Add two tablespoonfuls of butter, in 
little bits, and serve at once. 

Scalloped Tomatoes and Com . 

Li a buttered baking dish dispose alternate layers of 
sof t^ sifted bread crumbs, sliced tomatoes and green com 



98 XYfiLCOOKBfHX 

cut from the cob. Season with scraped onioiii fine- 
chopped green pepper and salt. Have the last layer of 
tomatoes; cover with three-fourths a cup of cracker 
crumbs mixed with one-third a cup of melted butter. Let 
cook about half an hour. 

Green Com Oysters 

1 pint oom pulp 2 eggs, well beaten 

}^teaspoomul salt 1 cup flour (about) 

H teaspoonf ul black pepper 1 teaspoonf ul baking powder 

To the com pulp add the seasonings and eggs, and 
stir in the flotir sifted with the baking powder. The exact 
measure of flour cannot be given, as the com pulp will 
vary in thickness. Drop by teaspoonfuls into hot, salt 
pork fat, in a frying pan; when browned on one side turn 
to brown the other side. To get the pulp, score the 
kernels lengthwise of the rows with a sharp knife, then 
press out the pulp with the back of the knife, leaving the 
hulls on the cob. 

Com Padding 

3 tablespoonf uls oom meal 1 tablespoon! ul butter 

H cup cold milk 1 cup oom pulp of 

2 cups hot milk H can oom or Komlet 

1 teaspoonf ul salt 2 eggs 
\^ teaspoonf ul paprika 

Stir the commeal with the salt, paprika and cold milk, 
then stir into the hot milk. Cook and stir over boiling 
water until the mixture thickens; remove from the fire 
and stir in the other ingredients. Turn into a buttered 
baking dish suitable to send to the table; set on several 
folds of paper, in a dish of boiling water; let cook until 
the center is firm. Serve hot as a vegetable with the 
meat course, or with bread and butter at luncheon or 
supper. One or two tablespoonf uls of chopped green or 
red pepper is an addition to the dish well worth trying. 



VEGETABLES, HOMINT AND MACABONI, ETC. 99 

Canned Com Pudding, Nantucket Style 

Beat one egg. Add one cup of canned com, half a cup 
of rolled cracker crumbs, half a cup (or less) of sugar, 
half a teaspoonful of salt and two cups of milk. Bake 
nearly an hour in a very slow oven. Serve hot, with 
butter, at luncheon or supper. 

Kohlrabi au Gratin 

Often the upper part of kohlrabi will cook tender very 
quickly while the lower half does not become tender even 
with long cooking. Pare the upper half of each " globe " 
and let cook in boiling water until tender; add salt a few 
moments before the cooking is completed. Dispose the 
vegetable in an au gratin dish, pour over a pint (to serve 
«ight) of cream sauce, enriched with the beaten yolks 
of two eggs; sprinkle with grated cheese and set into the 
oven to melt the cheese. Serve as the principal hot dish 
at luncheon or supper. 

Stewed Cabbage 

Remove any imperfect leaves from a head of new cab- 
bage; cut m quarters and discard the hard portion m the 
center. Let stand in cold water about an hour; drain 
and shred rather coarse. Cover with boiling water and 
let cook, partly covered, from half to three-fourths of an 
hour; drain in a colander and return to the fire with (for 
a quart) a cup of cream and stir until boiling; add a tear 
apoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of paprika, and a 
tablespoonful of butter, in little bits. Let simmer two or 
three minutes, then serve. 

Stewed Cabbage, Hollandaise 

Cook the cabbage as above and retum to the fire. 
Beat one-third a cup of butter to a cream: beat in the 



100 JiML COOKBOOK 

yolks of three eggs, one at a time, half a teaspoonf ul of 
paprika, a teaspoonful of salt and the juice of a lemon; 
stir this through the hot cabbage; let cook a moment, 
without boiling, when the dish is ready to serve, n 

Cabbage an Gratia 

Cut half a boiled cabbage fine. Make a pint of white 
sauce. Put a layer of cabbage in a buttered baking-dish, 
sprinkle with a tablespoonf ul of grated cheese and pour 
over a little of the sauce. Add other layers in the same 
way, having the last layer of sauce, and cover the top 
with half a cup of cracker crumbs stirred into three 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter. Bake until the crumbs 
axebrowned. 

Summer Sqoashi Fried 

Pare young summer squash and cut in slices less than 
half an inch thick; season with salt and pepper and dip 
in fritter batter. Let fry, in a frying pan, in hot salt 
pork or bacon fat or in deep fat, as is most convenient* 

Asparagus Sprew, Buttered ' 

Cut off the tips of asparagus stalks. The tips should 
be two inches in length. Set these to cook by themselves 
in boiling, salted water. Cut the remainder of the tender 
stalks into half-inch lengths and cook as usual. Have 
ready squares of toasted bread; drain the water from the 
asparagus, dip the edges of the toast in the hot asparagus 
water and spread generously with butter. Put one-fourth 
a cup of butter into the bits of aspi^*agus with salt and 
pepper as needed; shake until the asparagus has taken 
up the butter, then dispose on the toast. Set the tips 
above the sprew, sprinkle with melted butter and serve 
at once. 



VEGETABLES, HOMINY AND IfACABONI, ETC. 101 

Jenssalem Artichokes 

Jerusalem artichokes resemble potatoes m appearance, 
but m composition they are more like turnips. Pare and 
throw into cold water, to keep them from turning black. 
Set to cook in boiling, salted water When nearly tender 
(twenty or twenty-five minutes) prepare a white sauce — 
a cup is enough for four or five potatoes — using half 
cream and half water, in which the artichokes were cooked, 
as the Uquid. Drain the cooked artichokes, shake over 
a hot stove Ud to dry off, then turn into a hot dish and 
pour the sauce over them. A little onion or lemon juice, 
or both, may be luided to the sauce. 

Jerusalem Artichokes with Meat 

Pare and trim the artichokes and cut them into halves; 
bring to the boiling point in boiling, salted water, and 
let boil two or three minutes, drain and dispose around 
a roast of beef or mutton. Cook about thirty-five mmutes, 
basting with the liquid in the pan each ten minutes. 

Jerusalem Artichokes au Gratin 

Boil the artichokes as usual, then cut into cubes. Dis- 
pose the cubes in an earthen dish in layers, alternately, 
with cream or Bechamel sauce; sprinkle each layer with 
grated cheese; cover the last layer with bread or cracker 
crumbs mixed with melted butter, and set the dish into 
the oven, to brown the crumbs. 

French Artichokes 

Two distinct portions of a French or globe artichoke 
are eaten, — the heart or bottom which holds the purple 
(white when suitable for cooking) flowerets, and the lower 
ends of the sepals. Often the choicer part, the bottoms 
or hearts, are served separately, one as a service. Then 



102 KYAL COtacBOOK 

tiie sepals fonning the calyx, with sauce in the center^ 
are served without the heart. The calyx of one artichoke 
constitutes a service. This custom is quite universal in 
clubs, restaurants and hotels w^ere large iiumbers are 
served k la carte. To eat the lower ends of the sepals, 
take a sepal in the fingers, dip the lower end into the 
sauce provided, and draw the lower part of the sepal 
between the teeth, to separate the edible from the un* 
edible portion. Hollandaise, Bechamel or drawn butter 
saiice are suitable. 

French Artichokes, Boiled 

Pull off all coarse or discolored sepals, and cut the 
stem close to the sepals. Rub over the cut surface of the 
stem with the juice of a lemon, to keep it white. Set to 
cook in boiling, salted water and let boil until the heart 
is tender. Pull back the sepals, to rest on the plate in a 
circle around the heart; with a spoon lift the flowerets 
(white or purple) from the heart, to which they are at- 
tached. The outer flowerets resemble the sepals in shape, 
the inner ones are like the pmple or white part of a thistle* 

Broiled Egg-Plant 

Cut the egg-plant in halves lengthwise, then cut each 
half in slices half an inch thick and remove the peel; 
brush over with olive oil or melted butter, and pat in 
sifted, soft bread crumbs seasoned with salt and paprika. 
Broil over a moderate fire eight to ten minutes, turning 
often. Set on a hot dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper 
and dot, here and there, with bits of butter. 

Stuffed Egg-Plant 

Cut the egg-plant in halves lengthwise, and cook in 
boiling salted water until tender. Drain carefully, then 



VEQETABLE8, HOMINY AND IfACABONI^ ETC. 103 

remove the pulp, to leave two thin shells. Chop fine 
half a small mild onion, and let cook hi two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter mitil softened and slightly yellowed; chop 
the pulp of the ^g-plant and six fresh mushrooms (or 
the equivalent in dried mushrooms soaked in cold water) ; 
add the onion and half a cup or more of fine-chopped, 
cooked meat or nuts; season as needed with salt and 
pepper and use to fill the shells. Cover the filling with 
three-fourths a cup of cracker crumbs mixed with erne- 
third a cup of melted butter and let cook about fifteen 
minutes. Serve with tomato sauce. The mixture may 
be baked in a shallow dish instead of the shells. 



dfy» Melted Batter 

Scrape the roots from the crown downward; cut in 
inch-lengths into cold water acidulated with vinegar or 
lemon juice. Boil in salted, acidulated water until tender, 
then drain. For a pint of salsify, put three or four table* 
spoonfuls of butter and a scant haJf teaspoonful, each, of 
salt and pepper into a saucepan; add the salsify; set the 
pan on the back of the range and shake the salsify in it 
until it is evenly coated. Serve in a hot dish. Half a 
cup of hot cream may be added, or the salsify may be 
stirred mto a cup and a half of white or cream sauce. 

Stewed Okra, Creole Style 

Wash okra pods and cut from the ends to make them of 
uniform length. Put two dozen pods in a saucepan with 
a tablespoonful of butter; add half a green pepper and 
half an onion, both chopped fine. Let cook five or six 
minutes, then add two tomatoes, skinned and cut in 
small pieces, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and salt 
to taste; let simmer about twenty minutes. Serve in a 
hot dish. 



104 XMLCOaUMMt 

Baked Catdiflower 

Boil a Cfkuliflower, taking care that it be rather under 
than over done. Trim the stalk so that the cauliflower 
will stand level. Do not remove the tender leaves. Put 
in a well buttered baking dish that may be sent to the 
table, and dust with salt and black pepper. Have pre- 
pared a cup of sauce made of chicken broth. Add two 
tablespoonf uls of thick cream and one-fourth a cup of 
grated cheese (American factory or Parmesan). Pour 
the sauce over the cauliflower to fill all the crevices. 
Sprinkle a layer of grated cheese over the whole, and 
bake ten or fifteen minutes. Substitute milk for chioken 
stock, if desired. 

Cauliflower Mattre d'Hdtd 

Let a choice head of cauliflower stand, head down- 
wards, in cold salted water an hour or longer. Cook in 
boiling, salted water until just tender. Cream one-fourth 
a cup of butter and gradually beat into it half a teaspoon- 
ful, each, of salt and paprika and one tablefipoonful of 
lemon juice. Trim the stalk before cooking, that the 
cauliflower may stand level on the serving dish, also 
select a flat rather than a rounding head. Have ready 
one or two lemons, according to the size of the cauliflower; 
cut in thin, even slices and sprinkle the slices with flne- 
chopped parsley. Spread the sauce over the cauliflower 
and dispose the slices of lemon above in a symmetrical 
manner. A slice of lemon accompanies each service. 

Succotash 

Scrape, wash and score in quarter-inch slices a quarter 
of a pound of salt pork. Cover with boiling water and let 
simmer five or six hours, or until nearly tender. Add one 
pint of fresh-shelled Lima beans, and more water, if 



CAtlUFLOWEB, MaItRE d'hOTEL. Page W 



ABTICUOKE, HOLUMDAISE SAUCE. P<WIU 



> BirrrER, with toaot pointo. Pom los 



LOB8TEE SALAD. PagfM 



VEGETABLES, HOMINT AND MACABONI, ETC. 105 

needed. When the beans become tender, add one pint of 
sweet com pulp. Cook about fifteen minutesi and add 
two tablespoonf uls of butter, or a little sweet cream, and 
salt, if needed. Pour the succotash into the serving dish, 
slice the pork in the scorings, and serve at once. This dish 
is particularly good prepared with dried beans and either 
dried or canned com. If dried vegetables be used, let 
soak over night in cold water. 

Green Peppers, Stuffed 

3 green i>eppeis 4 cooked mushrooms 

1 siioe mild onion H teaspoonf ul parsley 

1 tablespoonful butter |^ cup raw sausase 

1 tablespoonful cooked ham ^ teaspoonf ul salt 

1 tablespoonful flour H eup soft bread crumbs 

H cup broth }i cup butter, melted 

% cup cmcker crumbs 

Put the peppers in boiling water; after two or three 
minutes remove and with a cloth rub off the outer skin; 
cut each in halves, lengthwise, and remove seeds and 
veins. Chop fine the onion, ham, mushrooms and parsley. 
Melt the butter, add the chopped ingredients and stir a 
few minutes; add the flour, stir until blended, then add 
the broth and stir until boiling; add the sausage and salt; 
stir until well mixed, then let cook about ten minutes, 
stirring occasionally; add the bread crumbs and use to 
fill the half-peppers. Mix the cracker crumbs through 
the melted butter and spread over the mixture in the 
peppers. Bake until the crumbs are browned. 

Onions Staffed with Sausage 

Parboil the requisite number of mild onions about an 
hour, changing the water twice, replenishing with 
boiling water. Drain and remove the centers, leaving a 
thin shell of onion. Fill these centers with pork sausage, 
rounding the top. Bake about an hour, basting four or 



106 AMI OMflT BOOir 

five times with the dripping in the pan or with melted 
butter. Serve with white sauce if used as an entree; 
serve without sauce if used with a roast (as turkey) ac^ 
oompanied with a sauce. 

Staffed Onions 

Parboil or steam six or eight choice onions about one 
hour. Remove from the water and cut out a circular 
piece from the top of each to form cups. Chop fine the 
pieces of onion, add an equal measure of cold, cooked veal 
or chicken, salt and pepper to season, one-fourth a cup, 
each, of fine soft crumbs and melted butter and mix 
thoroughly. Season the inside of the cups with salt, 
then stuff with the prepared mixture. Bake slowly about 
half an hour, basting with melted, butter. Serve with 
white sauce. 

String Beans, with Mattre d'Hdtel Butter 

After the cooked beans have been made very hot in 
boiling water, drain and stir into them one-fourth a cup 
of creamed butter, to which a tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, one-fourth a teaspoonful of black pepi}er, a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice, and salt, if needed, have 
been added. Serve very hot. Dried or canned Lima 
beans and peas may be served according to this recipe. 

String Beansi with Cheese 

Drain, rinse and drain again a can of string beans. 
Put over the fire in boiling water; let heat while a cup of 
white sauce is made, using milk or white stock as the 
liquid Add the beans and one-fourth a cup of grated 
cheese. Lift the beans with a silver fork occasionally, 
until the cheese is melted. Serve very hot. If intended 
for the substantial dish of the meal, add to the sauce the 
beaten yolks of one or two eggs and a httle cream. 



VEQBTABLES, HOMINT AND MACABONI, ETC. 107 

Baked Lima Beans (Dried Beans) 

Wash a quart of Lima beans. Let soak over night or 
sevend hours, then drain and put over the fire to cook 
in water to cover. Cover and cook about an hour and 
a half, adding more boiling water as needed to keep them 
covered. Season with salt and pepper and stir in two 
tablespoonfuls of butter and flour creamed together. 
Let boil, then turn into a baking dish; cover the top with 
half a cup of cracker crumbs, mixed with two tablespoon* 
fuls of melted butter. Let bake about fifteen minutes. 
Fresh beans may be prepared in the same manner, the 
time of boiling being made less. Dried Lima beans may 
also be cooked as Boston baked beans. 

Lima Beans in Cream 

This dish is at its best when made with fresh, or green, 
Lima beans, but canned or dried beans give excellent 
results. Canned beans should be rinsed in cold water 
and drained; fresh beans should be cooked until tender 
and the water nearly evaporated. Soak dried beans over 
night in cold water, drain and set to cook in a fresh supply 
of water; cook until tender, replenishing the water as 
needed; when tender the water ^ould be reduced to one 
or two tablespoonfuls. To a pint of fresh or canned 
beans, or a cup of dried beans, add two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, half a teaspoonf ul, each, of salt and black pepper, 
and cook and toss in the pan about five minutes, taking 
care to keep the beans whole; add one-third a cup of 
hot cream; turn into the serving dish and £fprinkle with 
a little fine-chopped parsley. 

String Beans, Spanish Style 

Take two pounds of green string beans and chop fine. 
Put one tablespoonful of bacon drippings in a frying 



108 MMl COOKBOOK 

pan, add one onion, cut fine, and half a dry red pepper, 
cut fine; let onion and pepper cook until softened, tiien 
add three ripe tomatoes, cut fine, and stir in one table- 
spoonful of flour; then add one quart of cold water; then 
the chopped beans, with salt and pepper to taste, and 
let the beans cook until tender; keep adding water as 
needed, so as not to let them get too dry. 

Baked Beans, Spanish Fashion 

Let a pint of dried beans (California, pea, yellow eyed, 
flageolet or Lima beans) stand covered with cold water 
over night; rub the beans between the hands .and rinse 
in oold water. Again cover with cold water and let heat 
slowly to the boiling point, then let simmer five minutes, 
adding at the last a teaspoonful of soda. Drain and rinse 
with cold water. Turn a layer of the beans into a baking 
dish, sprinkle with sweet red peppers, chopped fine, and a 
little salt; add also a slice or two of bacon, cut in tiny 
squares; continue the layers until the beans are used. 
Have ready cooked tomatoes, pressed through a sieve to 
exclude seeds; add these to the beanis until they are well 
covered. Bake in a hot oven about four hours. 

Boston Baked Beans 

Let one pint of pea beans soak in cold water over night. 
In the morning wash and rinse in several waters. Par* 
boil until they may be pierced with a pin. Change the 
water during the parboiling, adding a teaspoonful of 
soda with the last water. Rinse thoroughly in hot water. 
Put one-half of the beans into the bean-pot. Pour scald* 
ing water over one-fourth a pound of salt pork and, after 
scraping the rind thoroughly, score it in half-inch strips. 
Lay the pork on the beans in the pot, and turn in the rest 
cf the beans. Mix two tablespoonfuls of molasses and 



TBQETABLESy HOMINT AND MACARONI, ETC. 109 

one teaspoonful, each, of mustard and salt, with hot 
water to pour, and turn over the beans. Then add boil* 
inn: water to cover. Bake about eight hours in a moder* 
ate oven. Keep the beans covered with water and the 
cover on the pot until the last hour. Then remove the 
cover, and bring the pork to the top, to browp the rind» 
Beans are better baked in large quantity. 

Boston Baked Bean Croquettes 

Ptess cold baked beans through a ricer or sieve. To a 
pint add three or four drops of Tabasco sauce, two or 
three tablespoonfuls of: tomato catsup and, if liked, a 
teaspoonful or more of grated horseradish mixed with 
vinegar. Shape into small balls with a teaspoonful of 
baked beans left whole in the center. Boll in soft, dfted 
bread crumbs, then in a beaten egg diluted with cold 
water and again m crumbs. Fry in deep fat about one 
minute. For an hors d'oeuvre make the balls the dze of 
an En^irii walnut, seasoning more highly than given 
above. Serve one or two as a service. Pass at the same 
time olives or small gherkins and very small Boston 
brown bread sandwiches. 

Cuny of Baked Beans 

This dish may be made of left over Boston baked 
beans, or a tablespoonful of curry powder and two onions, 
sliced and cooked brown in two table&fpoonfuls of salt 
poric fat, may be added to one pint of pea beans aft^ 
they are disposed in the bean pot. For a pint of the left 
over beans, slice an onion in two tablespoonfuls of salt- 
pork fat, stir constantly and let cook until browned 
delicately; add from half to a whole tablest>oonful of 
curry powder and half a cup of tomato pur6e and let 
simmer ten minutes, then strain over the beans, cover 



110 XVAL COacBOOK 

and set into the oven to become hot throughout. If the 
beans aie rather dry, use a little more of the piu^. When 
done there should not be an overabundance of liquid. 

Baked Beans and Pork, New York Stjrle 

Let a pint of pea beans soak over ni^t in water to 
cover generously. In the morning drain off the water; 
add fresh water and wash and rub the beans through the 
hands in the water. Turn the beans into a colander and 
let cold water run through them. Then cover with cold 
water and put over the fire to cook. Dip one-foiu1)h a 
pound of salt pork into boiling water, and scrape the outer 
surface, including the rind, thoroughly, then put the pork 
into the beans to cook. When the skins of the beans are 
easily pierced, remove them from the fire, add a teaspoon- 
f ul of salt and turn them into a rather shallow baking 
dish (a tin or agate dish answers nicely). Score the rind 
of the pork, for cutting into slices, and press it down into 
the beans in the middle of the dish, cover with an agate 
plate and bake in a moderate oven from four to six hours. 
Add boiling water as needed during the first of the cook- 
ing. Do not add water during the last hour. Just before 
the last hour, remove the cover, to brown the top of the 
beans and pork. Serve hot with tomato catsup, mustard 
pickles and the like. 

Ricei Spanish Style 

Put two frying pans on the stove, and in each put one 
teaspoonful of bacon fat. Take one onion and four 
green chilis, chop very fine, sprinkle with a little salt; 
put this in one frying pan and cook until softened with- 
out browning. In the other pan put one cup of rice, 
washed and dried; stir and let cook a light brown; add 
the onion and chilis and one cup of tomato; then fill the 
frjring pan with boiling water and let cook until rice is dry. 



CHAPTER Vm 

SALADS 

A salad at dinner should be season^ with French dress- 
ing; such salads are served with the jQsh or roast. 

A salad dressed with mayonnaise is appropriate at 
luncheon, high tea, card party, reception or banquet. 

A green vegetable salad should be served as soon as it 
is dressed. 

Cooked materials may be seasoned (marinated) with 
French dressing and left to stand some time; but should 
be served as soon as possible after the addition of mayon* 
naise dressing. 

Mayonnaise loses its creamy consistency (liquefies) 
when mixed with other articles. 

A salad is not an acid dish, and in all dressings vin^ar 
or lemon juice should be used sparingly. 

French Dressing 

3 taUespoanfoIs ofl Vi teaspoooful aalt 

1 to 3 tablespoonfuls lemon H teaspoonful pepper 

juice or vinegar 

The ingredients for the dressing may be mixed and 
poured at once over the salad materials, which are then 
turned over and over until the dressing has been taken 
up by them; or the condiments, mixed with the oil, may 
be first used, then, after each leaf or separate piece has 
been thoroughly coated with the oil, the acid may be 
poured on and the salad turned over and over imtil the 
acid is evenly mixed throughout. 



\ 



llfi KVAL&IOKBOOK 

French Dressing with Mustard 
{Particularly good for green salads and beans of aU kinds) 

Use from a teaspoonful to a tablespoonful of mixed 
mustard to the ingredients given, on page 120, for French 
Dressing. Put the mustard — brown in color, such as is 
put up in bottles ready for table use — in a bowl, add the 
condiments, then gradually beat in the oil and, lastly, the 
vmegaj-. The mside of the bowl may be rubbed over with 
a clove of garlic cut in halves, or one-fourth a teaspoonful 
of onion juice or pulp may be added to the mustard. 



French Dressing with Chili Sauce 



/ 



Put two tablespoonfuls of chili sauce, one tablespoonful 
of vinegar, three tablespoonfuls of olive oil, and one- 
fourth a teaspoonful, each, of salt and paprika into a fruit 
jar; adjust a rubber and cover securely, then shake to 
form a thick emulsion. Use with a green vegetable salad. 
The vinegar is often omitted. 

\lnaigrette Sauce 

3 tablespoonfuls vinegar Two or more tablespooitfiils 

Vi teaspoonful salt fine-chopped parsley, chives, 

}4 teaspoonful pepper chevril and terragon 

6 tablespoonfuls oil 

This dressing is good for asparagus and other cooked 
v^etable salads. The dressing is mixed in the same 
manner as is French dressing. 



Russian Salad Dressing 

1 cup nui^onnaise H teaspoonful paprika 

H cup ohve oil^ 1 teaspoonful punientos, chopped fine 

1 teaspoonful vinegar 1 teaspoonful green pepper, chopped fia» 

a teaspoonful salt ^ cup chili sauce 



SALADS 113 

the extra oil into the mayonnaise, add the other 
except the chili sauce, then gradually beat 
m. tike thiH sauce. 



nicoise Dressing 

yi teaspoonf ul mustard 1 cooked eg^yolk, sifted 

1 teaspobnf ul chives, chopped-fine 1 teaspoonfm chili sauce 
yi teaspoonf ul salt ^ 4 tablespoonf uls olive oil 

yi teaspoonf ul paprika 1 tablespoonf ul vinegar 

1 teaspoonf ul parsley, chopped-fine 

Grated onion or shallot may replace the chives; mix 
the dry ingredients with the egg-yolk, then gradually 
beat in the other ingredients. 

Roquefort Cheese Salad Dressing 

2 ounces or }i cup Roouefort cheese H teaspoonf ul salt (scant) 
4 to 6 tablespoQufuls ouve oil yi teaspoonful paprika 

2 to 3 tablespoonf nu vinegar 

Beat the cheese to a cream (use a wooden spoon), then 
gradually beat in the oil, vinegar and seasonings. The 
uncooked yolk of an egg is sometimes beaten into the 
cheese, and thick cream may replace part of the oil. This 
dressing is particularly good with lettuce, endive, sliced 
tomatoes and cold boiled cauliflower. Serve with crack- 
ers or bread in some form, but not with meat or fish 
dishes. 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

Beat the yolks of two eggs until light colored and thick. 
Add half a teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth a teaspoonful 
or more of paprika, and beat again. Then beat in two 
tablespoonfuls of acid, — lemon or vinegar, or half of 
each, as is preferred. When the mixture is smooth, beat 
in half a teaspoonful of olive oil. Continue beating in the 
oil, increasing the quantity to a teaspoonful, and finally 
to a tablespoonful, until a pint has been added. Lastly, 
beat in two tablespoonfuls of boiling water, one at a 



114 MlOiL amcBooK 

time. In makixig the dressing, use a Dover egg^-beater, 
and beat vigorously from the start. If the dresrang is to 
stand any time before udng, cover the receptacle with a 
glass or china plate, and set it aside in a cool place. Beat 
the full quantity of acid given into the yolks at first, or 
the oil cannot be added in the quantity indicated. Fol- 
low the directions carefully, and a smooth, perfect mayon- 
naise may be assured. 

Boiled Salad Dressingi with Whites of Cgg and Cream 

Mix half a teaspoonf ul of mustard, half a teaspoonf ul 
of salt and a generous fourth a teaspoonf ul of paprika. 
Add the yolks of two eggs, and mix thoroughly. Add 
one-fourth a cup of butter and one-fourth a cup of cider 
vinegar or lemon juice and vinegar, half and half. Set 
the saucepan over hot water, and stir until the mixture 
becomes smooth and thick. Then remove from the fire, 
and beat in the white of one egg, beaten dry. Return the 
saucepan to the hot water, if needed, to set the egg. Beat 
the mixture constantly while it is in the hot water. When 
the mixture is cold and the salad ready to servCi fold in 
half a cup of thick cream, beaten solid. 

Romaine Salad 

Discard the outer green leaves and detach the others 
from the stem. Look over the leaves carefully and wipe 
with a damp cloth if needed, or if necessary wash quickly 
in cold water and dry on a cloth. Dispose in a salad bowl^ 
and when ready to serve pour on about a tablespoonful 
of dressing for each service. 

Salad Dressing for Romaine 

Rub a soup plate with a clove of garlic, cut in halves; 
put in half a teaspoonful, each, of salt, white pepper, 



SALADS 115 

chin Colorado (mild Meidcan pepper) and cuny powder, 
a teaspoonf ul of fine-chc^ped parsley, the grated yellow 
rind ol half a small lemon and a tea^oonful oi grated 
onion. Mix together thoroughly; add four tablespoon- 
fuls of oil and crush the solid ingredients in the oil; add 
two tablespoonf uls of vinegar, mix again and strain over 
the romaine. This will serve four people. 

Lima Bean Salad 

Over a pint of cold, cooked Lima beans pour three or 
four tablespoonfuls of olive oil, two tablespoonfuls of 
cider vinegar, one teaspoonful of grated onion pulp, half 
a teaspoonful of salt and half a teaspoonful of paprika. 
Toss and mix; dispose on a serving dish, and surround 
with a '^ pin-money mangoe" chopped fine. Serve at 
once or let stand in a cool place for some time before 
serving. 

lima-and-Black-Bean Salad 

Let one cup each of Lima and black beans soak over 
nigh^, separately, in cold water; drain, wash in cold 
water, drain and set to cook in cold water. After boil- 
ing begins, replenish with boiling water as needed and 
let cook until tender. Season with salt when about three- 
fourths cooked. When cold, season, separately with oil, 
vinegar, onion juice, paprika, chopped parsley and about 
one-fourth a teaspoonful of mustard or curry powder. 
Let stand until well masoned. Serve in a bowl lined with 
lettuce hearts. Dispose the dark beans in the center and 
the light ones around the edge. 

String Bean Salad in Crown of Eggs 

Cut four hard-cooked eggs in lengthwise quarters, and 
trim the quarters to stand level. Soften a teaspoonful 



116 IMiLCOOKBOOK 

of gelatine in eold water and dissolve with just as little 
boiling water as possible. Select a plate with a pattern 
that gives a circle about five and one-half inches in diam* 
eter. Dip the trimmed ends of the egg quarters in the 
gelatine and set them, one after another, upright on this 
circle, the yolks outward. Have the plate chilled and the 
sections of egg will adhere to the plate. Set the plate 
aside in the refrigerator until ready to serve. 

Season one pint of cold, cooked string beans with half a 
teaspoonf ul salt, one-fourth a teaspoonful of paprika, 
four or five table^poonfuls of oil, two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar and about one-fourth a teaspoonful of onion juice* 
Let stand in a cool place an hour or more, then add more 
oil or other seasoning if needed, and turn inside the crown 
(ring) of eggs. A tuft of heart-leaves of lettuce may be 
set in the top of the beans and single leaves back of the 
sections of egg. 

Baked-Bean-and-Tomato Salad 

Stir together three tablespoonfuls of \inegar, six 
tablespoonfuls of oil, half a teaspoonful of scraped onion 
and half a teaspoonful, each, of salt and paprika. Pour 
part of the mixture over a pint of cold Boston baked 
beans; toss until the beans are coated with the dressing, 
then turn into a salad bowl. Set a border of peeled-and- 
sliced tomatoes roimd the beans and turn the rest of the 
dressing over them. Cold Lima, kidney or string beans 
may be served in the same way. 

Tomato- Jelly-and-Baked-Bean Salad 

Stew two cups and a half of tomatoes, two slices of 
onion, two cloves, three branches of parsley, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, half a red or green pepper pod, or half a 
teaspoonful of paprika, fifteen minutes. Press through a 



SALADS 117 

sieve. There should be nearly two cups of pur^; add 
one-fourth a package of gelatine, softened in one-fourth 
a cup of cold water; stir until the gelatine is dissolved^ 
then turn into a shallow dish. Mix three tablespoonfuls 
of olive oily one and a half tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one- 
fourth a teaspoonful, each, of salt and pepper and a tea- 
spoonful of grated onion, and pour over one pint of cold 
baked beans; toss and mix together and turn into the 
center of a dish. ITnmold the tomato jelly and cut it into 
small cubes. Prepare two-thirds as much dressing as was 
mixed for the beans, pour it over the cubes of tomato and 
dispose these around the beans. Sprinkle the whole with 
fine-chopped parsley or parsley and green pepper mixed, 
and serve at once. 

Egg-and-Tomato Salad 

Cut hard-cooked eggs in quarters, after removing a 
slice from one end that the eggs may stand leveL On 
individual plates set slices of ripe tomato with two or 
three heart-leaves of lettuce; on each ^ce of tomato set 
one of the prepared eggs, held together with a ring cut 
from a slice of tomato. Surround with mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Stuffed Tomato Salad 

Peel small tomatoes, cut out the hard pieces around 
the stem ends and remove the seed portions to make 
tomato cups. Sprinkle insdde lightly with salt and pepper, 
and fill with equal portions of celery and walnuts cut in 
pieces and mixed with mayonnaise dressing. Serve on 
lettuce leaves and garnish with curled celery. Pass 
mayonnaise in a separate dish. 

Bits of cooked chicken, veal or ham may replace the 
nuts, or be used with them. 



118 XYfiL (MX BOOK 

Tomato-and-Onion Salad 

Peel and dice ripe tomatoes; peel and cut in fhin alioes 
one or two mild, white yomig onions. Prepare a BVench 
dressing according to the usual formula. Put the onions 
in the salad bowl and pour over the dressing; with the 
salad fork and spoon turn the slices of onion over and 
over in the dressing, pressing upon them to extract some 
of the flavor. Add the slices of tomato and turn them 
carefully in the bowl, to keep the shape while the dressing 
is absorbed. At the last, tuck in some tender heart- 
leaves of lettuce and serve at once. The onion may be 
served or not according to taste. 

<< Z9Z2 Salad " 

H.cap olive oQ H teaspoonful salt 

Juice of ^ a lemon }| teaspoonful miprika 

Juice of )^ an orange ^ 1 teaspoonful Worcestershire 
1 teaspoonful grated onion sauce 

3 teaspoonf uls parsley, chopped ^ teaspoonful mustard 
fine 

Put the ingredients for the dressing into a fruit jar, 
adjust one or two rubbers and the cover, and shake until 
the mixture is smooth and thickened a little. This is 
sufficient for eight portions. Select smooth, firm to- 
matoes; peel and cut into slices a generous half-inch 
thick; stamp out small rounds from the slices and insert 
in the center of each slice four or five cooked asparagus 
tips. Dispose on heart-leaves of lettuce. Cut the small 
roimds into cubes and dispose these, with several olives 
and cooked chestnuts, cut in slices, at one side, then pour 
on the dressing and serve at once. 

Tomato- Jelly-and-Aspaxagus Salad 

2H.cup8 tomato Vi teaspoonful salt 

2 cmoes onion y^ padcace gelatine 

2 stalks parsley }i cup oNd water 
^grenpepper 



SALADS 119 

Cook the vegetables fifteen minutes, add the salt and 
the gelatine softened in the cold water and strain into 
a shallow dish. When ready to serve, turn the jelly on 
to a clean sheet of paper, and with a knife dipped in 
boiling water cut the jelly in half-inch cubes. Dispose 
the cubes on heart-leaves of lettuce; above set a row or 
layer of cooked asparagus tips. Pour over half a cup of 
French dressing. Lengthwise quarters of hard cooked 
eggs may be added as a garnish. 

Tomato Jelly, Quickly Made 

Soften one-fourth a package of gelatine in one-fourth 
a cup of cold water, add half a cup of boiling water and 
one cup and a half of chili sauce. Set aside in a shallow 
pan or in individual dishes to harden. Serve with lettuce 
and French dressing, or cut in cubes as a garnish to any 
variety of salad. 

Cucumber Jelly 

Pare two cucumbers and cut in slices; add a slice of 
onion, a stalk of celery, half a tablespoonf ul of nasturtium 
seeds, a piece of green pepper pod and half a teaspoonf ul 
of sweet herbs, with water to cover. Let simmer until 
the cucmnber is tender, then press through a very fine 
tieve. Season with salt, pepper and a tablespoonful of 
lemon juice. Then add, for each pint of liquid, one-third 
a package of gelatine, softened in one-third a cup of cold 
Water and dissolved over hot water. Tint delicately with 
green vegetable color-paste and turn into molds to 
harden. Serve, with any salad dressing, in the same ways 
that tomato jelly is used. 

Cucmnber-and-Pimiento Salad 

Pare a chilled cucumber and cut it into julienne pieces 
(like a match but shorter) ; remove pimientos from a can. 



120 XYAL COOKBOOK 

rinse in cold water, dry on a cloth and cut in shreds 
similar in size and shape to those of the cucumber. Use 
equal measures of each. Dress each separately with 
French dressing to which a little grated or scraped onion 
has been added. Dispose in the salad bowl separately, 
one as a wreath aroimd the other, or mix the two together. 
Particularly good with fish. 

Cauliflower-and-Beet Salad 

Dress flowerets of cold, cooked cauliflower with oil, salt, 
pepper and vinegar, or lemon juice. Dress the shredded 
outside leaves of a head of lettuce, and a beet cut in figures, 
and the chopped trimmings, each separately with the 
same ingredients. Dispose the lettuce on the center of a 
serving dish, and the carefully drained cauliflower above. 
Sprinkle with the figures cut from the beets, and dispose 
the chopped beets in points around the central mass* 
Serve mayonnaise in a dish apart. 

Potato Salad 

1 quart potato cubes 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 cup tiny carrot cubes^ H teaspoonful paprika 
6 flowerets cooked cauliflower M teaspoonful mustard 
d slices flne-cfaopped onion 4 hard cooked eggs 

2 tablespoonf uls chopped parsley 2 tomatoes 

2 tablespoonfuls piccalilli 1 cup nuiyonniuse dressing 

8 tablespoonfub olive oil ^ Capers and parsley 

4 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

The cubes of potato should be half an inch in diameter. 
Cut the carrots in julienne pieces, then when these are 
cooked cut them into tiny cubes; break the flowerets of 
cauliflower into small pieces. Put the omon, parsley and 
piccalilli into a wooden bowl and chop all together until 
very fine, then add to the cooked vegetables; add also 
the oil, vin^ar, salt, paprika and mustard; nux thoroughly 
and shape in a mound; spread the mayonnaise over the 



8ALADS 121 

mound; with capers, outline the surface in four sections of 
same size; fill one with the whites of two eggs chopped 
fine; fill another with the sifted yolks of two eggs; fill 
a third with chopx)ed parsley, and a fourth with capers. 
Cut two of the eggs into lengthwise eighths, cut the 
peeled tomatoes into quarters or eighths, lengthwise, ac- 
cording to the size; set these around the base of the salad 
and finish the top with a sprig of parsley or lettuce heart. 

Potato Salad for Thirty 

5 quarts potato cubes 2 pickles, mustard preferred 

2 onioiis ^ ly^ tablespoonfuls salt 

10 cent bottle stuffed olives 1 teaspoonf ul paprika 

5 cents worth parsley ^ teaspoonf uf black pepper 

H cup piccafilii ^ l}i cups olive oil 

H cup vinegar 

Cut the potatoes in cubes when cold. The parsley, 
loose in cup, measures one cup of leaves. Chop the 
parsley, onions, olives and pickles together in a wooden 
bowl; chop very fine. Add all the ingredients to the po- 
tatoes and mijt thoroughly. 

Cabbage Salad, Lenten Style 

Shave crisp, white cabbage exceedingly fine, and a 
smaller measure of purple cabbage in the same manner. 
Mix each separately with French dressing. Dispose the 
white cabbage in a salad bowl, with a wreath of the purple 
cabbage on the top. Cooked or mayonnaise dressing may 
be used in place of the French dressing. 

Cabbage Salad, French Faduon 

Cut a small new cabbage in quarters and let stand in 
Ice water to chill; swing in a cloth imtil dry, cut out and 
discard the hard center, then shred very fine; shred also 
a green pepper, freed from seeds and veins, exceedingly 
fine, and prepare a tablespoonful of fine-chopped parsley. 



122 IMiLCOXEUHX 

For a pint of material, mix half a teaspoonful of salt, 
one-fourth a teaspoonful, each, of mustard and pepper, 
four tablespoonfuls of oil and two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar. When thoroughly blended dispose on a serving 
dish. Garnish with figures cut from slices of cooked beet 
and with lengthwise quarters of hard-cooked eggs. 

Pimiento-and-Cheese Salad 

Cut Neuf chatel or Philadelphia cream cheese in small 
cubes. Binse canned pimientos in cold water; drain and 
dry on a cloth. Cut the tops of the pimientos in Vandykes 
(points) and fill with the cheese and trimmings of the 
peppers cut in small pieces. Set these on heart-leaves of 
lettuce. Finish with a teaspoonful of mayonnaise above 
the cheese or around the pimientos. Serve with bread 
or roUs as the chief dish at luncheon or supper. 

Fin de Sigcle Salad (Thomdike Style) 

For one service take four or five heart-leaves of lettuce, 
one (canned) artichoke bottom, two short stalks of as- 
paragus, a generous tablespoonful of flageolet (French 
beans, green in color and kidney-shaped), half a French 
endive cut in julienne shreds, about a tablespoonful of 
mayonnaise dressing, a little sifted hard-cooked yolk of 
egg, and one very small beet cut in halves. Set the 
artichoke bottom on the lettuce, the asparagus tips on 
two opposite sides of the artichoke, and the beans on the 
artichoke between the asparagus; above the whole set 
the dressing; dispose the strips of endive over the dress- 
ing; set the halves of beet at the base of two sides op- 
posite each other, and sift the yolk over the whole. 

Egg Salad, Auiore 

For one large or two small portions there are needed 
two half-inch, thick slices of a good-sized tomato, one 



SALADS 123 

tender hard-cooked egg, four lettuce leaves and two 
tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise dressing. Set the tomato 
over a little of the dressing on the lettuce. Cut the egg 
in quarters, remove the yolk to a sievci cut the pieces of 
white in halves crosswise and dispose on the tomato, the 
pointed ends to the center; dispose the rest of the mayon- 
naise at the points where the pieces of white meet. Sift 
the yolk over the dressing. Serve at once. 

Tvette Salad 

Take equal measures of celery cut in thin slices, or 
sprigs of cress; lean, cooked ham or corned beef or tongue 
in tiny cubes, and half as much of pimientos cut in half- 
inch squares. Dress with mayonnaise dressing. 

Salmon Salad wifli Mac^oine of Vegetables 

1 pint clarified chicken broth ^ 1 pint cooked salmoii 

1 pint cooked vegetables in bits French dressing or 

1 tablespoonf ul gelatine Mayonnaise dressing 

}i cup cold water Lettuce 

Use a pint mold; the broth should be strong and well 
seasoned. For the vegetables use string beans, asparagus 
tips, peas, celery and carrot. Soften the gelatine in the 
cold water, dissolve in the hot broth; when cooled some- 
what add the vegetables, and when beginning to set mix 
thoroughly and turn into the mold. Ice and chilled 
vegetables shorten the process materially. When ready 
to serve, dip the mold in warm water to the top of the 
dish and unmold on a chilled dish. Fill the center with 
flakes of cold, cooked salmon seasoned with French dress- 
ing. Serve French or mayonnaise dressing in a bowL 

Shrimp Salad 

Fresh or canned shrimps may be used Ux this salad. 
If canned shrimps be used, cover them with cold water; 



124 KYfiL COOKBOOK 

let stand two or three minutes, then drain and dry on a 
cloth. Reserve a whole shrimp for each servicei and pick 
the rest into two or three pieces, each, discarding the 
intestinal vein. Mix the pieces of shrimp with mayon- 
naise or cooked dressing and dispose in nests of lettuce. 
Garnish with the whole shrimps and a few capers, and 
serve at once. 

Lobster Salad 

Lobster meat for salad or other preparation should be 
handled as little as possible. Bemove the meat from the 
shells with care, leaving the pieces as they are, or cut 
them into smaller pieces. Dispose on a bed of carefully 
dried lettuce leaves and serve the dressing in a bowl. kA 
lobster is rather rich, a simple French dressing is best. 
If mayonnaise be used, do not mix it through the lobster, 
set a little above each portion of lobster. 

Chicken Salad, Spring Style 

1 pint cold cooked chicken in cubes ^ cup blandbed almonds, aliredded 

1 cup white grapes skinned, cut 6 tabiespoonf ub olive oil 

in halves and seeded 1 teaspoonful salt 

3^ cup cubes of pared apple )^ teaspoonful paprika 

1 tabiespoonful kmcga juice 2 tablespoonfub lemon juice 

2 beads French endive, cut juli- \^ cup or more mayonnaise dress* 
enne style ing 

Sprinkle the tabiespoonful of lemon juice over the 
cubes of apple while preparing them, in order to keep the 
apple white. Mix the oil, salt, paprika and lemon juice 
and pour over the prepared ingredients; mix thoroughly 
and shape in a mound on a bed of lettuce leaves; spread 
the mayonnaise over the top of the moimd. Sprinkle the 
dressing with fine-chopped pistachio nuts. Blanch the 
nuts before chopping. 

Napolitaine Salad 

Cut hard-cooked eggs in even slices. Dispose these 
jdtemately with thin dices of Bologna sausage, crown 



BALADS 125 

shape, on a serving dish. Season a pint of cold, boiled 
potato cubes and half a pint of beet-root cubes, sepa* 
rately, with sauce tartare. Turn these into the center of 
the crown. Sprinkle the whole with fine-chopped parsley. 
For the sauce tartare, add to a cup of mayonnaise dress- 
ing one-fourth a cup of fine-chopped olives, capers, pickles 
and parsley. 

Apple-and-Pimiento Salad 

Pare six tart apples and cut them in julienne shreds or 
in small squares. Squeeze over them the juice of a lemon; 
add one or two pimientos, rinsed in cold water, drained 
and dried on a cloth and cut in small pieces. Mix six 
tablespoonfuls of oil with a scant half teaspoonful of 
salt and a dash of paprika and turn over the apples and 
peppers. Toss together lightly. Serve on crisp heart- 
leaves of lettuce with roast or broiled meats, or with 
cheese custard, croquettes, etc. 

Grape-fniit Orange-and-White-Grape Sa)ad 

Cut the grapefruit and orange in halves, crosswise, 
and lift out the half sections, freed from the membrane 
with a sharp knife, in whole pieces. Remove the skin 
from the grapes, cut them in halves and take out the 
seeds. Serve the prepared fruit — in such proportions 
as is desired — on lettuce hearts. Pour a tablespoonf ul 
of French dressing over each service. Use lemon juice, 
one tablespoonf ul to four tablespoonfuls of oil, in making 
the dressing. 

Date-and-Banana Salad 

Peel and scrape four bananas; cut them in thin slices 
and at once squeeze over them the juice of half a lemon« 
Pour boiling water over a pound of choice dates; stir 
and separate the dates in the water, then skim out upon 
an agate plate. Set the plate in the oven to heat the 



126 X¥ALCOOKBOOK 

dates thoroughly y then cut each in four lengthwise jneces 
and discard the stones. Over the dates pour a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice. Mix four tablespoonfuls of olive 
oily one tablespoonful of lemon juice and a generous quar- 
ter of a teaspoonful, each, of salt and paprika, and pour 
half over the bananas and the other half over the dates. 
Serve on heart-leaves of lettuce. The bananas and dates 
may be mixed together or kept separate. 

Pnme-and-Pecan-Nut Salad 

H lb. oooikedpnnieB, cut in length- ^ teaspoonful salt 

wise strips 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juioe 

yi lb. pecan nut meats, cut in three 1 tablespoonful sherry win^ at dis- 
pieoeseadi cretion 

1 cup double cream^ Heartrleaves of lettuce 

y^ teaspoonful paprika 

Do not overcook the prunes; they should cut in smooth, 
firm pieces; add salt and paprika to the prunes and nuts. 
Beat the cream, seasomngs, wine if used, and lemon juice 
until firm throughout. Mix three-fourths of it with the 
nuts and prunes; set the mixture in roimding spoonfuls 
on heart-leaves of lettuce; pipe a star of dressing above 
the salad in each leaf. Serve with bread and butter at 
luncheon or supper. 

Endive-and-Ptime Salad 

Wipe the blanched leaves of a head of endive and dis- 
pose lightly on a salad plat6; above set about one-fourth 
a pound of cooked prunes, cut in smooth quarters, from 
the stones. Mix together four tablespoonfuls of olive oil, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of paprika, 
two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice and two tablespoonfuls 
of claret wine, and pour over the whole; mix and serve. 
Lemon or orange juice may replace the claret. For a 
large head of endive more dressing may be required. 
Serve with roast meats on chilled plates. 



CHAPTER DC 

YEAST MDrrUKES — BREAD AND ROILS 

Commercial yeast is a collection of yeast plants put 
into sueh a condition that their growth is arrested for 
the time being. 

Moist, warm flour presents food imder the right con- 
ditions for the growth of yeast plants. As the yeast 
plants grow and multiply, chemical changes take place 
in the flour, and carbon dioxide and alcohol are evolved. 
The carbon dioxide lifts up the mass of moist, warm flour 
and makes it light. If this dough be handled and baked 
properly, sweet wholesome bread of fine, uniform texture 
results. 

The quantity of liquid taken determines the quantity 
of bread made, or, in making a loaf of bread, the. size 
of the loaf depends on the quantity of liquid used. 

The texture of the bread depends largely on the propor- 
tion of flour to the liquid, or the quantity of flour used. 

The larger the quantity of yeast used, the shorter, 
comparatively, the time required for the process. 

Make a '* sponge " or a thin batter of yeast, liquid 
and a little flour, for mixtures containing shortening, 
sugar, ^gs, etc. 

For ordinary bread made with compressed yeast, 
mix in all the flour at the banning. When dry yeast 
is used, start the bread with a sponge. 

Bread is best when the rising process is not hurried; 
and rolls keep the shapes given them much better if 
the final rising be not pushed. 



128 XmLCOOKBOi^ 

^ baking, biscuit and rolls call for a quicker heat 
than bread in loaves. 

Rolls and biscuit present a better appearance if glazed 
just before the baking is completed; white of egg gives 
a crisp glaze, cornstarch paste a soft exterior. 

Recipe for Two Loaves of White Bread 

yi cake oompresBed yeast 2 tablespoonf uls shorteniiig 

(at night) 2 tablespoonf uls sugar 

i4 cup water 1 teaspoonf ul salt 

2 cups scalded milk or half About 7 cups flour 
mdk and half water 

To the milk; or milk and water, add the shortening, 
sugar and salt; when lukewarm, add the yeast mixed with 
the half cup of liquid and the flour. Use an earthen bowl 
and mix with a knife. Knead until elastic. Let rise in a 
temperature of about 75^ F. The shelf over the stove 
is not a suitable place. When doubled in bulk, shape 
into loaves. When again light, bake about <me hour. 
To mix in the morning, use one whole yeast cake. 

Two Loaves Entire Wheat Bread 

H to 1 whole yeast cake 1 teaspoonful salt 

yi cup lukewarm water 4 tablespoonf ub molasses 

2 cups scalded milk or half 1 cup white flour 

milk and half water 6 cups (about) whole wheat flour 

2 tablespoonf uls shortening 

Afix and finish as white bread. Sugar may be sub- 
stituted for the molasses. When bread less sweet is 
preferred, use half the measure of sugar or molasses. 
For a change, use white flour and whole wheat flour in 
equal proportions. 

Graham Bread 
{Mixed in morning) 

1 cake compressed yeast 1 teaspoonful salt 
}4 cup lukewarm water }4 cup molasses 

1>^ cups scalded and cooled milk 2|^ cups sifted graham flour 

2 taUespoonfuls butter lH cups white flour 



YEAST MIXTURE — BBEAD AND ROLLS 129 

To the milk add the butter, salt and molasses; when 
lukewarm, add the yeast mixed with the water and stir 
in the flour. More flour may be needed. The dough 
should be quite firm, though not stiff enough to knead. 
Ciover and set aside to become doubled in bulk; cut down 
and turn into a pan. The pan must be larger than the 
ordinary brick-loaf pan. When again nearly doubled 
in bulk bake about one hour. 

Rye Meal Bread 

1 yeaat cake }| cup molasses 

}4 <^up lukewann water ly^ cups sifted rye meal 

lyi cups scalded milk 1 cup whole wheat flour 

2 taUespoonfuIs shortening 1^ cups white bread floor 

1 teaspoon! ul salt 

Soften the yeast cake in the water. To the milk add 
the shortening, salt and molasses, and, when lukewarm, 
stir in the softened yeast, the meal and flour. The 
mixture should be quite stiff, but not stiff enough to knead. 
Cover and let stand until light or doubled in bulk; cut 
down and turn into the pan. Cover and, when again 
nearly doubled in bulk, bake one hour. This mixture 
when ready to bake will nearly fill a sandwich-loaf bread 
pan. Such a pan is ten inches long, four inches wide and 
three inches deep with strtdght sides. The pan is usually 
supplied with a cover, but this should be discarded. 

Sweet Rye Breadi with Raisins 

^ to 1 whole yeast cake H cup shortening 

H cup lukewarm water 1 teaspoonf ul salt 

2 cups scalded milk 1 cup seeded raisins 

yi cup sugar or molasses 3 cups rye flour 

3 cups wheat flour (about) 

Soften the yeast in the water. To the milk add the 
sugar or molasses, shortening, salt and raisins; when 
lukewarm, add the yeast and the flour and mix to a dough. 



130 XiTiL COOKBOOtC 

Ehead until smooth and elastic. Use white flour for 
kneading. CJover, and when light shape for two brick- 
loaf pans. When again light bake about one hour. 

Raisin Bread 

1 cake com p r c ga e d yeast "^ cap melted shorteniiig 

H cup Bttlded and cooled H teaspoonf ul salt 

milk legg 

1 cup scalded and cooled milk \i cup nuains 
1% cupa bread flour About two cups floor 

yi cup sugar 

Qne-half a teaspoonful or more of cinnamon may be 
added if desired. 

Make a sponge of the yeast, milk and the one cup and 
three-quarters of flour. When light and puffy add the 
other ingredients and mix to a soft dough; knead until 
smooth and elastic; cover and let stand until doubled 
in bulk. 

Do not let stand on the shelf of the range: it is too 
hot. When light, shape into aloaf, and when again light 
bake about one hour. 

One Loaf Date Bread 

1 cup scalded milk ^ ^ teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonf uls shortening ^ cup molasses or sugar 
l^Xol whole cake comprised 1 cup cleaned dates 

yeast 3 cups whole wheat floor 

^ cup water or scalded milk White flour t<x dough 
(lukewarm) 

Melt the shortening in the hot mjllc and add the salt, 
molasses and dates chopped or cut in large pieces. To 
mix at night use the small quantity of yeast. Use the 
whole cake when mixing m the morning. Crumble the 
yeast cake and mix in the lukewarm liquid, then add to 
the ingredients in the bowl; add the whole wheat flour 
and one cup of white flour and mix to a dough, adding 
meanwhile as much more white flour as is required. 



TEAST MIXTUBB — BBEAD AND ROLLS 131 

Eiaead the dough until smooth and elastic* When light 
shape into a loaf, and when again light bake one hour. 

Bran Bread 

1 cup milk H teaspoonf 111 salt 

K cup 'water 3 tablespoonf ub molasses 

1 cake compressed yeast 1 cup entire wheat flour 

2 taUespooof uls butter Bran as needed for a soft dough 

Scald the milk; add the butter, salt and molasses. 
When lukewarm add the yeast, mixed with the water, 
the flour and bran as needed to make a soft dough. 
Do not knead. Let stand, covered, until light; cut down 
and turn into an ordinary bread pan. When nearly 
doubled in bulk bake one hour. 

Salt-Rising Bread 

Into a puit of lukewarm water stir flour to make a 
drop batter. Let stand in a vessel of lukewarm water, 
in a warm place, keeping the temperatiu'e as nearly 70^ 
F. as possible. When light and foamy, in eight or ten 
hours, add a quart of lukewarm water, two teaspoonf uls 
of salt, and flour to make a batter rather stiffer than 
before. Keep at the temperature of about 70** F., and 
when again light turn into pans, and when nearly 
doubled in bulk, bake in an oven of ordinary temperature 
for bread. One-fourth a cup of com meal may be stirred 
into the water with the flour when making the ''drop 
batter.'' One-fourth a cup of sugar (less if desired) 
may be added with the salt when mixing the dough. 

French Bread 

Soften a cake of compressed yeast in one-fourth a cup 
of boiled water, cooled to a lukewarm temperature, and 
stir in about three-fourths a cup of flour, enough to make 
a dough that may be kneaded. Enead imtil the little ball 



132 XYfiL COOKBOOK 

1 

of dough is smooth and elastic. Then make a cut across 
the top in two directions. Have ready a pint of boiled 
water, cooled to a lukewarm temperature, and into this 
put the ball of dough. It will sink to the bottom of the 
dish. In about fifteen minutes it will float upon the 
water, a light, puffy ^'sponge." Into this water and 
sponge stir a teaspoonful of salt and between five and dx 
cups of flour, enough to make a dough stiff enough to 
knead. Knead or poimd the dough until it is smooth and 
elastic, and does not stick to the hands or board. It will 
take fifteen or twenty minutes. Cover the dough, and 
set it aside in a temperature of about 70^ F. until it has 
doubled in bulk. This may be baked in any kind of 
pan; but, to secure the crusty French loaf, a Russia iron 
pan, giving long, narrow loaves, is desirable. For one of 
these pans divide the dough into two equal pieces. Boll, 
and stretch these under the hands on the board until tiiey 
are as long as the pan. Have a round stick (like a curtain 
roller) lightly floured. Press this down through the center, 
lengthwise of the loaf, and roll it back and forth, to make 
a furrow. French bread is concave rather than convex on 
the top, but this shaping may be omitted. Cover, and 
let stand to become light. Cut three or four slantwise 
cuts in the top of the bread, five or six inches apart. Bake 
about forty minutes. When nearly baked, brush over the 
surface with the white of an egg, beaten and strained, 
and return to the oven to dry the glaze. 

Quick Teast Rolls 

To one cup of scalded milk add one-fourth a cup of 
butter, half a teaspoonful of salt and a level tablespoonful 
of sugar; stir till the butter is melted and the liquid is 
lukewarm, then stir in a cake of compressed yeast mixed 
with one-fourth a cup of lukewarm water, and as much 
bread flour as can be conveniently mixed in with a spoon* 



YEAST MIXTURE— BREAD AND ROLLS 133 

The dough should not be mixed stiff enough to knead. 
MiXy cut and turn the dough over and over with a spo(m 
or knife; cover and set aside to become light. When the 
dough has doubled in bulk, with buttered fingers pull off 
bits of the dough and work into smooth balls and set 
them close together in a buttered pan. When very light 
bake about twenty-five minutes. ^ 

Potato Rolls 

1 cake compressed yeast H cup sugar 

}^ cup lukewarm water \i cup shorteninff 

1 cup scalded milk ^ teaspoonf ul sut 

Nearly 2 cups flour 2 egg-yolks 

1 cup hot mashed potato About 2 cups flour 

Mix the yeast through the water smoothly. Cool the 
milk, add the yeast and flour for a sponge. Beat very 
thoroughly, cover and set aside to become light. Add the 
other ingredients. Mix all together thoroughly with a 
knife. The dough should be about as stiff as can be stir- 
red, yet not stiff enough to knead. Cut through and 
through the dough repeatedly; cover and set aside to 
become doubled in bulk. Turn upon a well-floured 
board, roll into a sheet one-fourth an inch thick and cut 
into rounds, brush the roimds with melted butter, double 
over like a Parker House roll, brush over the tops with 
butter and let rise. Bake about twenty minutes. 

Turkish Rolls 

Work one-fourth a cup of almond paste into one cop 
of boiled water cooled to a lukewarm temperature; add 
one tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of sugar, 
half a teaspoonf ul of salt, one cake of compressed yeast 
mixed in one-fourth a cup of lukewarm water, and between 
three and four cups of sifted flour. Mix all togeth^ 
thoroiighly and knead to a smooth dough. The dough 



134 mALCOOKBOOK 

should be soft as can be handled. Let stand to doubtei 
about^ in bulk; shape into oval rolls; when again lights 
brush over with milk and bake in a hot oven. 

Hot Cross Buns 

1 cake oompresaed yeast 1 teaspoosf ul salt 
y^ cup lukewarm water 3 egg-yolks 

2 cups scalded mUk H cup melted butter 

3 cups flour (about) Flour for soft dougb 
yi cup sugar Qrmunental icing 

Make a sponge of the first four ingredients; when 
light add the others save the frosting. The dough should 
be stiff enough to knead. When again light, turn upside 
down on a board very lightly dredged with flour, roll into 
a sheet and cut into rounds. Set the rounds close to- 
gether or some distance apart (according as to whether 
a soft or crusty exterior be desired). Bake about half 
an hour. When baked, brush over the surface with white 
of egg, or a teaspoonf ul of cornstarch smoothed in cold 
water and cooked with boiling water to a paste, and 
return to the oven to dry the glaze. Remove to a wire 
cooler, and with ornamental frosting pipe a cross upon the 
top of each bun. 

Brookline Biscuit 

Have a pint of sifted flour in a bowl; into this rub 
two level tablespoonfuls of butter. Scald one cup of 
milk, and when lukewarm add one-fourth a cake of 
compressed yeast dissolved in one-fourth a cup of luke* 
warm water. Stir this into the flour, and set to rise over 
night. In the morning work in suflSicient flour to make a 
dough, and knead it imtil it is elastic and does not stick 
to the fingers. Let rise imtil very light; then take from 
the bowl to the bread board, without working, and roll 
out into a rectangular sheet longer than it is wide and 
half an inch thick. Spread softened butter upon this 



YBAST MIXTUBB — BBBAD AND BOLLS 135 

aad fold the dough evenly, to have three layers. With 
a sharp knife, dipped in flour, cut the dough into strips 
three^f ourths an inch wide. Take hold of a strip at the 
ends, pull gently, to lengthen it, then twist the ends in 
opposite directions and form the shape of the figure 
ei^t, joining the two ends underneath. Place the bis- 
cuits in buttered pans so that they will not touch, and 
when light bake in a rather hot oven to a delicate brown. 
The recipe makes two dozen biscuits. 

SoufflS Luncheon Rolls 

1 cap scalded milk 1 egg beaten lai^ 

2 tablespoonf ub butter ^ teaspoonful salt 
Vi cake compressed yeast 1 teaspoonful sugar 
pi cup lukewarm liquid 1 J^ cups flour 

Melt the butter in the milk; add the sugar and salt and 
when lukewarm the yeast, with the lukewarm liquid, 
the egg and flour. Beat about ten minutes. The mix- 
ture should be rather thicker than a drop batter, but not 
as stiff as a dough. Cover and set aside to become 
light. Cut down and use in filling muffin pans to rather 
more than half their height; when the batter fills the pans, 
bake in a hot oven about twenty minutes. Brush over 
the top of the rolls with a teaspoonful of cornstarch, 
smoothed in cold water and heated to boiling in a half 
cup of boiling water; return to the oven to dry off. If 
there be time, the rolls will be improved if the batter be 
cut down and allowed to rise once or twice before it ia 
put into the pans. 

PhOadelphia Butter Buns 

1 cake compressed yeast H cup butter, melted 

}i cup water 2 egg-yolks 

1 cup scalded milk H teaspoonful salt 

1}4 cups bread flour Grated rind 1 lemon 

)i cup sugar Fbur for dough 



136 XVAL COOKBOOK 

Make a sponge of the first four ingredients; when light 
add the others; about two cups of flour will be required. 
Knead until smooth and elastic. Cover close and set 
aside to become doubled in bulk. Turn upside down on 
a board, roll into a rectangular sheet, spread with soft- 
ened butter, dredge with sugar and cumamon, sprinkle 
with currants and roll as a jelly roll. Cut into pieces 
about an inch and a quarter long. The dough will make 
sixteen bims. Butter well the bottom of a pan of the 
proper size and dredge generously with brown sugar; 
set the bims on the tfugar and let become light. Bake 
in a moderate oven. Turn upside down. The sugar and 
butter should glaze the bottom of the buns. Serve with 
coffee or cocoa. These are good reheated. Three or 
four tablespoonfuls of butter and a generous half cup of 
sugar are none too much on the pan. 

Bismarck Rings 

1 cake oomi^eased veast 3 egg-yolks or 

yi cup water or miUc (scalded) 1 egg and 1 yoDc 

1 cup scalded milk Vl cup sugar 

\\i cups flour (about)^ IJ teaspoonful salt 

\^ cup melted shorteiiiiig flour for douj^ 

Make a sponge of the first four ingredients; when light, 
add the other ingredients and mix to a soft dough. Enead 
until smooth and elastic. Cover and set aside (out of 
drafts) to become double in bulk. When light, divide 
into about eighteen pieces of the same size; shape these 
into balls; dispose on the kneading board, cover with 
one or more earthen mixing bowls and let stand to be- 
come very light. Boll each ball into a rectangular sheet 
about one-fourth an inch thick; as soon as one is rolled 
spread it with almond cream, then roll like a jelly rolL 
Join the ends securely, to form a ring on the pan. Let 
stand again to become veiy light. Brush over with the 
yolk of an ^g, beaten and mixed with one or two table- 



KUCHEN BUCBD AND TOASTED. Foe* 1*7 



O SHAPE. Pave 137 



POP OVEBS. taee 1 



FRDIT-AND-NCT CHBISTMAB CAKES. Faatli 



YEAST MIXTUBB — BREAD AKD BOLLS 137 

Spoonfuls of milk. Slash each roll in several places. Bake 
about twenty-five minutes. Serve hot with cojffee or 
cocoa. These are good reheated in a paper bag such aa 
is used for cooking. 



Almond Cream 

Beat one-fourth a cup of butter to a cream; gradually 
beat in two ounces (one-fourth cup) of almond paste, 
then one-fourth a cup of sugar and one egg or two yolks 
and use to spread the Bismarck Rings. 



-> 



I Eugelhopf Kttchen 

(For afternoon tea) 

1 lb. (4 cups) flour 1 cake compressed yeast 

10 ounces (1^ cups) butter 3 tablespoonfub lukewarm water 

2 tablespoonfub sugar 7 eggs 

}i teaspoon! ul salt 1 cup large raisins (seeded) 

Soften the yeast in the water, mix thoroughly, and stir 
in enough of the flour to make a soft dough. Knead the 
little ball of dough; with a knife slash across it in opposite 
directions and drop it into a small saucepan of lukewarm 
water. Put the rest of the flour, the salt, sugar and butter 
softened and broken into bits, into a mixing bowl; add 
four of the eggs and with the hand work the whole to a 
smooth consistency; then add the rest of the eggs, one at 
a time, and continue beating each time until the paste is 
smooth. When the little ball of sponge has become very 
light, at least twice its original size, remove it with a 
skimmer to the egg mixture, add the raisins, and work 
the whole together. Let stand to become double in bulk. 
Cut down and set aside in an ice chest over night. Shape 
on a board either into a loaf or buiSs. When again light 
and puffy bake in a quick oven. Cut the cake into thick 
slices. 

Toast these over a quick fire, being careful (by not 



138 XYMCaOKBOOK 

moving the cake while toasting) to retain the lines of the 
toaster. Spread with butter, sprinkle with sugar and 
cinnamon mixed, and serve at once on a hot napkin. 

Wellesley Toast 

Cut fresh-baked bread into even slices; toast, tiien 
q)read with butter and dredge quite thick with sugar and 
cinnamon, mixed together. Serve at once with tea or with 
eocoa. 



C5HAPTER X 

QXnCK HOT BREADS 

Use no sour milk, molasses or lemon juice in nuxtures 
lightened mih baking powder or bicarbonate of soda 
and cream of tartar, unless such acid be first neutralized 
with soda. 

Quick hot breads in which butter and sugar are used 
may be mixed as cakes. 

If the quantity of butter be small, — less than one half 
the measure of sugar, — add the sugar with the dry in- 
gredients; melt the butter and add it to the mixture 
at the last. 

An iron pan, made hot beforehand, is the best article 
in which to bake popovers or mufiBns. 

Whole Wheat Popovers 

1 cap whole wheat flour H teaspoonful salt 

1 cup white flour 2 cups milk 

2eggi 

Beat the eggs light without separating, add the milk; 
beat in the flour and salt gradually, using the egg beater. 
Pour into hot, well buttered cups. Bake about forty- 
five minutes. 

Baking Powder Biscuits 

2 cups pastry flour ^ teaspoonful salt 

4 level teaspoouf uls baking 2 to 4 tablespoonf uls shortening 

powder H to ^ cup milk or water 

Pass the dry ingredients together through a sieve 
two or three times; work in the shortening with two 



140 JiML COOKBOOK 

knives; add the liquid, a little at a time, mixing it in mean- 
while with a knife. The dough should be as soft as can 
be handled. Turn the dough on to a floured board, 
turn it with the knife to coat with flour, then knead 
slightly; pat with the rolling pin, and roll into a sheet 
About three-foiui^hs of an inch thick; cut into rounds; 
lake from fifteen to twenty minutes. Brush the top of 
ihe biscuit with melted butter before baking to insure 
a rich colored crust. 

Sour Cream Biscuit 

To each cup of thick, sour cream, milk or buttermilk 
beat in half a scant level teaspoonful of soda, then use as 
fiweet milk, cutting down the quantity of baking powder 
a little. With cream use but little shortening. One to 
four tablespoonfuls, according to the richness of the prod- 
uct, will be needed with sour milk or buttermilk. 

Maple-Sugar-ond-Nut Biscuit 

3 cups pastry flour H.to H cup shortening 

3 slightly rounding teaspoon- Milk as needed 

f uls baking powder ^ cup nut meats, broken in pieces 

^ teaspoonful salt % cup shaved maple sugar 

Sift together the flour, baking powder and salt. With 
two knives cut in the shortening; add milk, a little at a 
time, and mix to a dough; turn on to a floured board; 
toss the dough in the flour; knead slightly and roll into a 
rectangular sheet much longer than wide. The sheet of 
dough should be less than half an inch thick. Spread 
the sheet of dough with melted butter, sprinkle on the 
nuts and the sugar; roll like a jelly roll; make the roll 
long rather than thick; cut in pieces an inch and a half 
long. Set these on end, close together, in a buttered 
pan. Bake about twenty minutes. Serve hot with butter 
ior tea or luncheon. 



QUICK HOT BREADS 141 

Bluebeny Muflbis 

2 cups white flour 1 egg beaten fi^t 

2 rounding teaspoonfuls bak- 3 tablespoonf uls melted butter 

ing powder About ^ cup milk 

yi teaspoonf ul salt 1 cup blueberries 

}^ cup sugar 

Sift together the dry ingredients (the sugar may be 
omitted). Add the egg with the milk (a little more milk 
may be needed) , mix to a dough, stir in the berries. Bake 
in a hot| buttered muffin pan about twenty-five minutes. 

Conimeal Muflbis 

3 tablespoonfuls butter 1^ cups flour 

3^ cup sugar ^ cup commeal 

1 egg and 1 yolk 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

% cup milk }4 teaspoonf ul salt 

Mix in the same manner as a cake. Bake in a hot well- 
buttered muflSn pan (iron) about twenty-five minutes* 

Southem Com Bread 

1 cup white commeal .1 egg, beaten light 
H teaspoonful salt 1 quart sweet milk 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

Sift together the dry ingredients, stir in the egg and 
milk. Turn into a well buttered baking dish suitable 
for the table; add the butter cut in bits. Bake about half 
an hour. Stir often imtil the bread begins to thicken. 
Serve with a spoon and from the dish* 

GxBham MufSns 

1 cup graham flour 4 level teaspoonfuls baking powder 

1 cup white flour 1 egg 

^ cup sugar 1 cup milk (about) 

}^ teaspoonful salt 3 to 4 tablespoonfuls melted butter 

Sift together the dry ingredients; beat the e^, add the 
milk and the butter and stir into the dry ingredients* 



142 KYfiL COOKBOOK 

Bake io a hot, well buttered muffin pan about twenty* 
five minutes. 

Bran Mufllns 

2 cups bran 3 tablespoonf uls butter 
1 cup entire wheat flour ^ cup molasses 

3 teaspoonfuls baking powdor IH cups thick sour milk 
^ teaspoonf ul salt }^ levd teaspoonful soda 

legg 

Sift together the flour, baking powder and salt and add 
the bran. Stir the soda into the som* milk and molasses, 
add the eg^, beaten light, then stir into the dry ingredients; 
add the butter, melted. Bake in a hot, well buttered 
muffin pan about twenty-five minutes. 



German Apple Cake, Revised 

2 cups flour 3 apples 

H teaspoonful salt ^ 3 tablespoonf uls currants 

4 level teaspoonfuls baking % tablespoonfuls buttery 

powder 3 tablespoonfuls sugar I ^,^. ^| 

H cup butter 1 egg, well beaten >ca»»ro 

1 egg ^ J^ cup milk J 
1 cup milk 

Sift together the dry ingredients, and work in the butter. 
Beat the egg, add the milk and stir into the dry ingre- 
dients. Turn the mixture into a buttered pan. Pare, 
quarter and core the apples; cut the prepared quarters 
in slices and press them, core side downwards, into the 
top of the dough, making two rows lengthwise of the cake; 
sprinkle with the currants and dredge with granulated 
sugar. Let bake about eighteen minutes, or until nearly 
done; without moving the cake in the oven, pour over a 
custard mixture and continue the baking imtil done. Serve 
hot at breakfast, luncheon or supper, or as a hearty 
dessert at dinner. To make the custard, cream the 
butter, beat in the sugar, then the egg and milk. 



/ 



QUICK HOT BBEADS 143 

Griddle Cakes wifh Sour Milk 

1)^ cups flour H teaspoonful soda 

)^ teaspoonful salt 1 egg 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder ' 2 tablespoon! uls melted butter 

1 cup thick sour milk 

Sift together the flour, salt and baking powder; stir 
the soda into the milk; add the egg, beaten very light, and 
the melted butter, and stir into the dry ingredients. 
If the sour milk be rich and creamy, the butter may be 
omitted. Set by spoonfuls on a hot, well oiled griddle; 
when bubbles appear throughout and the cake is well 
browned on the bottom, turn to brown the other side. 
Do not turn the cakes but once. 

Sour Cream Griddle Cakes 

1 cup sour cream or buttermilk 1 level teaspoonful baking powder 
J^ teaspoonful (scant) soda }^ teaspoonful salt 

2 egg-yolks 2 egg-whites, beaten diy 
1 cup flour 

Sour Cream Waffles 

Same as above, with the addition of two or three table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter. 

Bread Crumb Griddlecakes 

Soak two cups of bread crumbs in cold water, turn into 
a cloth and wring out the water; add two cups of thick, 
soiur milk and one cup of flour. Let stand over night; then 
add one egg, beaten very light, half a teaspoonful of salt, 
one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in one or two table- 
spoonfuls of cold water, and two tablespoonfuls of flour 
sifted with two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Mix 
thoroughly. A little more flom* may be needed. 

In cool weather the crumbs may stand over night 
in the sour milk. Make smooth with a spoon, then add 
the other ingredients. 



CHAPTER XI 
CAKE AND FROSTING 

* 

Let all ingredients be choice. 

Pastry flour is preferable to bread flour. Measure 
after sifting once; add the leavaiing ingredients and sift 
again. 

Fine granulated sugar, unless some other variety is 
specified, is indicated in all the recipes. 

Have all ingredients at hand, measured, and pans 
ready, before beginning to mix the cake. 

Sponge cakes, proper, are made without leavening 
ingredients or butter; lightness is secured by the intro- 
duction of air into eggs by beating, and the expansion 
of this air in the oven. In order to retain the air great 
care must be used in the mixing. 

Never heat a sponge cake mixture after the sugar is 
beaten into the yolks; fold in the egg-whites, beaten dry, 
and the flour. 

To fold in the flour and whites, cut down through the 
mgredients with a sUtted spoon and turn them over and 
over gently; repeat until all are evenly blended. 

To mix a butter cake beat the butter to a cream (until 
smooth throughout and whitish on the edges), beat in 
the sugar gradually, the yolks beaten hght if used, then, 
alternately, the milk and the flour with the leavening 
ingredients, and, lastly, the whites beaten dry. 

If the quantity of sugar be more than twice the quantity 
of butter, beat this excess of sugar into the beaten yolks, 
then beat the two into the butter and sugar. 



CAKE AND FBOSTING 145 

Beat a butter-cake mixture thoroughly after the addi- 
tion of the whites of e^, beaten dry; this, other conditions 
being right, will give a fine-grained cake. 

To bake cake, divide the time indicated for baking 
into quarters. The mixture should simply rise in the first 
quarter; brown in spots in the second quarter; brown all 
over in the third quarter; settle a little and shrink from 
tbe sides of the pan in the fourth or last quarter. 

Confectioner's sugar, sifted and mixed into sugar 
syrup, cream, milk, fruit juice or water (hot or cold), 
makes a good, simple frosting, but boiled frosting tastes 
the best. 

Boiled frosting may be lightened by the use of ^g- 
whites, beaten dry. The usual proportions are three- 
foiuiihs a cup of sugar (with water to dissolve) to each 
white of egg, beaten dry. 

The syrup for boiled frosting is usuaUy cooked to the 
soft-ball degree. This degree is indicated at from about 
238^ to 242^ F., and the final consistency of the frosting 
depends largely upon the actual degree reached in the 
boiling; thus for uniformity in the finished product a 
sugar thermometer is most valuable. 

If, when completed, a boiled frosting is too thin and 
runs from a cake, return the frosting to the fire in a 
saucepan on an asbestos mat or in a double boiler, and 
beat constantly and thoroughly while the mixture 
thickens. 

If a frosting has been cooked too long, add a little 
lemon juice. 

Sponge Cake 

^ egg^-yolks 2 tablespoonf uls leman jiiioe 

1 cup su^ 1 cup flour 

Grated iind 1 lemon 5 egg-whites 

Beat the yolks until light colored and thick; gradually 
beat m the sugar; add the lemon rind and juice; then cut 



146 XML COOKBOOK 

and fold in the whites of eggs, beaten dry, and the flour. 
Bake in a tube pan about fifty minutes. Half a cup of 
potato flour may be used in place of the whole cup of 
wheat flour. Potato flour gives a tender sponge cake. 

Angel Cake, Fiyebuig Recipe 

Beat the whites of eight eggs until foamy; add half a 
teaspoonf ul of cream of tartar and beat until dry, then 
gradually beat in one cup and a half of sugar and one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, then fold in one cup of pastry flour 
measured after sifting. Bake in a tube pan about f orty* 
five minutes. 

Almond Biscuit 

Beat the yolks of three eggs very light; gradually beat 
in half a cup of granulated sugar, the grated rind of half 
a lemon, half a cup of sifted pastry flour, and, lastly, the 
whites of three eggs, beaten dry, with one-eighth a tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar. Turn into small buttered 
tins, preferably such as are longer than the width; set half 
a blanched almond in the top of the mixtiu^ at each end, 
dredge with granulated sugar, and bake in an oven hotter 
than for a loaf of sponge cake. 

Maigueiites 

Bake sponge cake mixture in small round tins, or bake 
in a thin sheet and stamp into rounds with a small tin 
cutter. Blanch some almonds, spUt them, cut the halves 
in strips of imiform thickness and let brown delicately 
in the oven. Spread the roimds of cake with confeo* 
tioner's frosting, and dispose the shreds of almond oa 
the frosting to simulate the petals of a daisy. Finish 
each center with a yellow candy or a drop of frosting. 
For the frosting stir a tablespoonf ul or more of boiling 
water into sifted confectioner's sugar to make a paste 



CAKE AND FROSTING 147 

that will remain in place. Add a few drops of vamlla 
or other flavor. 

Lady Fingers 

Beat the whites of three eggs dry and the yolks thick; 
into the yolks beat half a cup of sugar and a grating of 
lemon rind; fold in half of the whites, half a cup and one 
tablespoonfuly extra, of flour, then the rest of the whites. 
Line a pan with paper; on the paper shape the mixtm^ 
in portions an inch wide and about five inches long; 
dredge with sugar. Bake about ten minutes. 

Maple Syrup Cake 

^ cap butter 3 cups flour 

lyi cups sugar 4 level teaspoonfuls baking ' 

1^ tablespoonfuls maple syrup powder 

3 ^ggs, beatoi without separatmg % cup water 

Mix in the usual manner and in the order given. Bake 
in a sheet in a large pan. Cover with 

Maple Syrup Frosting 

1^ cups maple syrup J^ cup nut meats, in pieces 

1 or 2 egg-whites 

Cook the syrup to 240^ F. on the sugar thermometer. 
Pour in a fine stream on to the white of egg, beaten dry, 
beating constantly meanwhile. Return the frosting in a 
saucepan to the fire on an asbestos mat or over hot 
water; beat slowly and constantly until the frosting 
thickens a little; add the nut meats; spread upon the 
cake aud draw the spoon across it, back and forth, from 
end to end with a waving motion. 

Cream Pie 

Beat one-third a cup of butter to a cream; gradually 
beat in one cup of sugar; add two eggs, beaten light, half 
a cup of milk and one cup and a half of sifted pastry flour, 



148 XVAL CtmcBOOK 

sifted again with half a level teaspoonful of soda and one 
slightly rounding teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Bake 
in two layer-cake pans; put the layers together with an 
English cream filling. Sprinkle the top layer with sifted 
confectioner's sugar or spread with confectioner's frosting. 

English Cream Filling 

Scald one cup of milk over hot water; stir one-third a 
cup of flour with one-third a cup of cold milk to a smooth 
paste, then cook in the hot milk, stirring until the mixtine 
thickens; cover and let cook fifteen minutes. Beat one 
egg; add one-half cup (scant) of sugar and beat again; 
add also one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt and stir into 
the hot mixture. Coutinue to stir until the egg is set» 
When cool add half a teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Confectioner's Chocolate Frosting 

Melt one ounce of chocolate; add two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar and three tablespoonfuls of boiling water and 
cook till smooth. Add a little more water if necessary; 
then stir in sifted confectioner's sugar as needed. For a 
change, stir sifted confectioner's sugar into a tablespoon- 
ful of lemon juice mixed with several tablespoonfuls of 
strawberry or raspberry juice. 

Omit chocolate with fruit juice. 

Mrs. Cornelius' Park Street Cake 

l^ cup butter 1 cup milk 

! 1 cup sugar 3 cups flour 

1 cup currants 1 teaspoonful soda 

4 egg-yolks 2 tea^xx>nf uls cream of tartar 
1 cup sugar (slightly rounding) 

1 teaspoonful lemon extract H teaspoonful mace 

4 egg-whites 

Beat the butter to a cream; gradually beat in the first 
cup of sugar, then the currants. Beat the yolks very 



CAKE AND FROSTINQ 149 

light, beat in the second cup of sugar and beat the two 
mixtures together. Sift together the flour, soda, cream of 
tartar and mace; add these to the first mixture alternately 
with the milk; then beat in the whites of eggs beaten dry. 
Bake in two brick-loaf bread pans. Sift granulated sugar 
over the top of the dough in the pans. Bake from one 
hour to one hour and a half. 



Spanish Cake 

1 cup butter > 6 level teaspoonf uls baking powder 

2 cups sugar 2 teaspoonf uls cinnamon 

4 yolks ofeggs 1 teaspoonful, each, cloves and 

1 cup milk mace 

3}^ cups sifted flour 4 whites of eggs 

Mix in the usual manner. Bake in layers and put to- 
gether with boiled icing; or, bake in a sheet, in a small 
dripping pan, after sprinkling the top with currants or 
chopped nuts and granulated sugar. The fruit or nuts 
sink into the cake and the sugar gives a crusty exterior, 
which answers for an icing. 

Bride's Cake 

J^ cup butter 2 J^ cups flour 

1^ cups sugar 1 level teaspoonful baking powder 

yi cup milk 4 egg-whites 

Grated rind of 1 lemon 

Bake in a tube pan, cover with confectioner's frosting, 
decorate with ornamental frosting and a confectioner's 
or bisque cupid. 

Ornamental Frosting 

1 cup sugar 1 egg-white 

y^ cup boiling water 1 teaspoonful lemon juice 

Melt the sugar in the water; wash down the sides of the 
saucepan; cover and let boil three minutes; imcover and 
let boil, undisturbed, to 238** F. Pour in a very fine 



160 XYkLCOOKBOOK 

stream through a small meve on to the white of egg, half 
beaten, beating constantly meanwhile. Continue the 
beating mitil the frosting b^ns to oool, then beat in the 
lemon juice. This frosting may be used for fine or coarse 
piping. Keep the frosting in the bowl covered with a damp 
doth while using the tubes. 

White Cake, Chocolate Ftostisg 

H <^P butter 3 egg-wblteA 

1 cup sugar 2 cups flour 

J^ cup imlk 3 teaspooufub baking powder 

Frosting 

2 ounces cbooolate 2 egg-wfaites 

lyi cups sugar 3^ teaspoonful vanUla 

}^ cup milk 

Bake the cake in two pans. Put*^the layers together 
and cover the whole cake with the frosting. Halves of 
English wahiut meats may be pressed into the frosting 
at regular intervals if desired. To make the frosting, melt 
the chocolate over hot water, add three tablespoonfuls 
of the sugar and three or four tablespoonfuls of the milk 
and stir and cook until smooth and boiling; then add the 
rest of the sugar and milk and cook to 240^ F. Finish 
as all boiled frostings. As the starch in the chocolate 
''breaks the grain ^' of the sugar a chocolate frosting may 
be stirred enough to keep it from burning. 

Nut Cake, Chocolate Ftostbg 

}A cup butter 2 teaspoon! uls baking powder 

lyi cups sugar 1 cup nut meats, chopped 

yi cup milk 4 c^gg-whites 

2 cups flour 

Bfix in the usual manner. Bake in a sheet between 
thirty and forty minutes. When cold, cover with choco- 
late frosting and decorate with halves of nut meats. 



CAKJB AND FB08TINQ 151 

Orange Cake 

Beat one-fourth a cup of butter to a cream; gradually 
beat in half a cup of sugar; beat two eggSi without sep- 
arating the whites and yolks; beat in half a cup of sugar, 
and then beat the whole into the butter mixture; add the 
grated rind and juice of half an orange, half a cup of milk 
and one cup and three-fourths of sifted flour, sifted again 
with three level teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Bake 
in two layers; put the layers together with orange filling 
and sift confectioner's sugar over the top. 

Orange Filling 

Beat one ^gg, add one cup of sugar, two tablespoonfub 
of butter and the grated rind and juice of one orange; 
stir and cook over boiling water imtil the mixture is thick 
and smooth. 

Cocoanut Cake with Lilac Decoration 

Cream half a cup of butter; gradually beat in one cup of 
granulated sugar, then beat in, one after another without 
previously beating, three whole eggs. Add, alternately, 
half a cup of milk and one cup and three-fourths of sifted 
flour, sifted again with two slightly roimding teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. Lastly, beat in one cup of grated 
cocoanut. Bake in a tube pan about forty-five minutes. 
C!over with confectioner's frosting and decorate with • 
candied lilacs, put on to represent lilac blossoms with 
strips of angelica for stems. 

Graham Cracker Cake 

H cap batter 1 pound graluim cracken 

1 cap sogar 2 slightly rounding teaspoonfuls 

3 Mg-yoDcB baSnff powder 

iH^cups sweet milk . 3 egg-wmtes, beaten diy 



152 HVAL COOKBMK 

Mix the cake in the usual manner. The crackers 
should be bought in bulk to get full weight. Roll and pass 
through a fine sieve. Repeat the rolling if necessary. 
Sift the baking powder into the crumbs and mix thor- 
oughly. Bake in three layer-cake pans. Put the layers 
together with Mocha frosting. Spread Mocha frosting 
lightly over the top and sides; then use a pastry bag and 
small five-pointed tube in piping the rest of the fretting 
over the cake. 



Beat half a pound of butter to a cream; gradually 
beat in two cups and a half of sifted confectioner's sugar 
and a scant quarter a cup of very strong black coffee. 

German Bred Torte 

Pass through a sieve, ricer or vegetable press enough 
cold, boiled potatoes to fill a cup twice. Chop, fine, enough 
blanched almonds to fill a cup. Sift together, three times, 
two cups of flour, two level teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
a scant half teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of cin- 
namon and half a teaspoonful of cloves. Cream one 
cup of butter; gradually beat in two cups of sugar and one 
cup of grated chocolate (preferably sweet), then the 
beaten yolks of four eggs, three-fourths a cup of milk, 
the potato, the flour mixture, the almonds, and, lastly, 
the whites of four eggs beaten dry. Bake in a large tube 
pan in a moderate oven about forty-five minutes. When 
cold, spread with 

Chocolate Fudge Frosting 

Melt two ounces of chocolate over hot water; add two 
cups of sugar and one cup of milk, and stir while gradually 
heating. Beatvigorouslywhen the boiling point is reached, 



CAKE AND FBOSTTNG 153 

then let cook to the soft-ball stage. Remove from the 
fire, add a teaspoonful of butter, and let stand mitil 
cold, then beat mitil creamy and spread on the cake. 
When of the consistency of thick molasses the icing is 
ready to use. Properly made, this frosting remains soft 
and creamy. The cake is always light, moist and rich. 

Date Loaf Cake 

1 lb. stoned dates 2 rounding teaspoon! uls baking 

1 lb. nut meats powder 

1 cup pastry flour 1 cup granulated sugar 

H teaspooidul salt 4 egm 

1 teaspponf ul vanilla 

The weight of the dates after stoning is required. 
English walnut meats are particularly good for this cake, 
but any variety of nut meats may be used. Leave the 
dates and nut meats whole; sift over them the flour, salt 
and baking powder sifted together two or three times. 
Mix thoroughly; add the sugar and mix again. Beat the 
whites of the eggs dry and the yolks till thick. Mix the 
yolks evenly through the other ingredients, then mix in 
the whites and the extract. Bake one hour in two bread 
pans lined neatly with paper. The heat of the oven should 
be moderate. 

One-Egg Chocolate Cake 

Beat half a cup of butter to a cream; gradually beat in 
one cup of sugar, then one egg beaten light. Sift together 
two cups of sifted flour, half a teaspoonful of soda, 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, two level teaspoonfuls 
of cinnamon, a level teaspoonful, each, of clove and all- 
spice and one-fourth a nutmeg, grated; add this mixture 
to the first, alternately, with one cup of sweet milk. Bake 
in a sheet and cover or not with frosting. 




154 MYkLCOOKBOOK 

Frostiiig for One-]^ Cako 

Stir one cup of sugar, two squares of chocolate, half a 
cup of water and a tablespoonf lU of butter over a dow fire 
until the sugar and chocolate are melted; let boil twenty 
minutes; beat until cool; add a teaspoonful of vanilla; 
beat again and spread on the cake. 

Devil's Food 

' yi cake dKXX)]ate 2 egg-yolks 

1 cup brown sugar ^ cup milk 

2 egg-yolks 1 teaspocmf ul soda 
J^ cup milk 2 cups flour 
Jj cup butter 2 ^-^" 

1 cup brown sugar 

Melt the chocolate in a double boiler, add the other 
ingredients in tiie bracket, and stir and cook over hot 
water until the mixture thickens; let cool, and add to the 
cake mixture just before it is turned into the baking pan« 

Prepare the cake mixture in the usual manner, adding 
the whites of eggs^ beaten dry, at the last; then add the 
cooked mixtiu^, and beat tiie whole thoroughly, ffift 
the soda before measuring, then sift with the flour. Bake 
in a sheet. Cover with a boiled frosting made of a cup 
and a half of sugar and the two ^g-whites left over from 
the custard part of the cake. Half a teaspoonful of cin- 
namon and one-fomili a teaspoonful of cloves may be 
added with the flour. Flavor the frosting with half a 
teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Chocolate Cake 

Beat half a cup of butter to a cream; gradually beat in 
half a cup of granulated sugar and half a cup of sifted 
brown sugar; then add one ounce of melted chocolate, 
the beaten yolks of two eggSi half a cup of molasses, one* 
fourth a cup of cream, one-fourth a cup of milk, two cups 



CAKE AND FROSTINa 155 

of flour with half a ieaspoonf ul of soda, half a testspoanr 
ful, each, of cumamon and mace and one-fourth a tea- 
spoonful of cloves. Lastly, beat m the whites of two eggs 
beaten dry. Bake in a sheet about twenty-five min- 
utes. Cover with marshmallow frosting. 

Marshmallow Ftosting 

Ck)ok one cup and a half of brown sugar, one-fourth 
a cup, each, of butter and boiling water until it forms 
a soft ball when tested in cold water. Melt half a pound 
of marshmallows over boiling water; add to the first mix- 
ture and beat imtil thick enough to spread over the cake. 
Just before spreading add half a teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Chocolate Cream Cake (Mrs. Vennaas) 

Beat one-fourth a cup of butter to a cream and the 
yolks of two eggs until thick. Then gradually beat half 
a cup of sugar into each, and combine the two mixtures. 
Add four ounces of chocolate melted ov& hot water; 
then, alternately, half a cup of milk and one cup and a 
half of sifted flour, sifted again with two level teaspoonf uls 
of baking powder. Lastly, beat in the whites of two eggs 
beaten dry and a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. Bake 
in two layers about eighteen minutes. Put the layers 
together with the following icing. Spread the same 
icing over the top. 



Cream Icing for Chocolate Cream Cake 

Set two cups of granulated sugar, one tablespoonf ul 
of butter, and two-thirds a cup of rich milk into a sauce- 
pan of boiling water, and stir occasionally imtil melted. 
Then set over the fire, and stir constantly while boiling 
from four to six minutes. The mixture should boil at 
(mce, or the time cannot be judged accurately. When. 



156 KVALCOOKBOOK 

thick as cream, remove from the fire and beat mitil cool 
Plough to spread. Flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla 
extract. The icing should be perfectly smooth, and cover 
the two layers to the depth of one-fourth an inch. 

Chocolate Fadge Cake (A. E. K.) 

Beat half a ^cup of butter to a cream; gradually beat in 
one cup of sugar, then two squares of chocolate, grated, 
the yolks of two eggs beaten light, one cup of sifted flour, 
less two tablespoonfuls, one teaspoonful of vanilla, the 
whites of two eggs, beaten dry, and one cup of pecan 
nut meats. Bake in a pan lined with a buttered paper. 
The pan should be nine and one-half by five and one-half 
inches, or its equivalent. Cut the cake in cubes. The 
cubes should be the size of caramels. The cake may 
be cut when hot or cold. 

Chocolate Nougat Cake 

H cup butter \i cup milk 

1^ cups sugar 1|^ cups flour 

4 ounces (squares) chocolate 3 level teaspoonfuls baking powder 
3 teaspoonf ub boiling water Boiled frosting 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar }^ lb. blanched almonds 

3eggs 

Cream the butter and beat in the sugar. Melt the 
chocolate over hot water, add the small measure of water 
imd sugar and stir over the fire until smooth; then gradu- 
.ally beat the mixture into the butter and sugar; add the 
•eggs beaten light without separating the whites and yolks, 
and, alternately, the milk and flour with the baking pow- 
der. Bake in layers or in one large sheet. Add the al- 
jnonds, sliced, to the frosting. 

Plain Boiled Frosting 

5^ cup sugar 1 egg-white 

yi cup boiling wster Few drops lemon juice, or grated 

rind }^ lemon 



CAKE AND FROSTING 157 

Melt the sugar in the water over the fire, and wash down 
the grams of sugar with the tips of the fingers wet repeat- 
edly in cold water; cover the saucepan and let boil three 
minutes (to dissolve grains of sugar) ; uncover, and let boil 
to 238** F. Pour the syrup very slowly and in a fine 
stream on the egg-white beaten dry, beating constantly 
meanwhile; remove the beater and beat occasionally 
until cool and thick enough to remain in place. The cake 
should be cold or nearly so when the frosting is set in 
place. 

Little Ftuit-and-Nut Christmas Cakes 

j/i cup butter }4 cup milk 

1 cup sugar 1% cups flour 

i^ chopped nuts 2}4 \eyQ\ teaspoonfuls baking 

•^ chopped raisins powder 

2 eggs, beaten light Frosting, small red candies, 

chopped pistachio nuts, candles 

Mix in the usual manner but without separating the 
whites and yolks of the eggs. Bake in small tins. Select 
tiny candles and candle holders; they may be bought in 
boxes holding two dozen. 

Little Pound Cakes 

}i cup butter ^ cup sifted flour 

}i cup sugar j^ teaspoonf ul baking powder 
2 egg-yolks (l^vel) 

}4 tablespoonf ul brandy or }4 teaspoonf ul mace 

milk 2 egg-whites, beaten dry 

Dispose in tiny tins; bake in a quick oven. The mix- 
ture need not be spread in the tins; it is rich and the heat 
will cause it to run and fill the shapes. Spread a little 
confectioner's frosting on the center of each and deco- 
rate with a bit of candied cherry. 

Blitzen Euchen 

}4 cup butter (scant) 1 cup flour 

1 cup sugar 3 egg-whites, beaten dry 

3 egg-yolks Blanched almonds 



158 IMULCOOKBOOK 

Mix in the usual manner. Spread on well buttered pans 
to the depth of half an inch; sprinkle with the almonds 
cut in lengthwise shreds. When baked and cold cut into 
small squares or other shapes. 



Drop Cookies 

2 taUespoonf Ills butter 2 tablespoonf uls milk 

H cap susar 1 cup flour 

1 egg, weU beaten 2 te&spoonf ub baking powder 



Cream the butter, beat in the sugar, egg, milk and flour 
with baking powder in the order given. Drop by small 
teaspoonfuls on a buttered pan; set a pecan nut meat 
above, and dredge with sugar; bake in a quick oven. 

Qtdck Cookies 

1 cop butter (scant) 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

1 cup sugar 2 eggs, well beaten 

2 cups flour 

Mix the butter, sugar and flour with baking powder with 
the hand, as in making pastry; add the eggs and stir to a 
dough. Knead on a floured board; roll into a thin sheet; 
cut into small cakes; set in to a buttered pan; brush over 
with beaten egg (white, yolk or whole ^g); dredge with 
sugar; bake in a quick oven. 

Honey Cakes 

\i cup butter 2 oz. sweet almonds 

1 cup strained honey ^ ^ teaspoonf ul mace 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice H teaspoonf ul soda 

Grated rind 1 lemon 2>j cups flour 

Melt the butter, add the honey, the almonds, blanched 
and chopped, and the other ingredients. Mix thoroughly, 
then set aside, covered, in a cool place over night. Boll 
into a sheet half an inch thick; cut into squares; bake in 
a moderate oven. When baked brush over the tops of 
the cakes with a qnrup made of a cup of sugar and half 



CAKE AND FBOSTma 159 

a cup of water. Boil about five minutesi then beat until 
it begins to turn white, then use quickly. If it becomes 
too thick to spread, add a little hot water and let boil 
again. 

Oatmeal Drop CooMes 

j^ cup butter 1 teaspoonful soda 

1 cup light brown sugar }^ teaspoonful cinnamon 

2 eggs, beaten light ^ H teaspoonful cloves 
4 tablespoonf uls sweet milk 1 cup raisins, chopped 

2 cups rolled oats ^ cup nut meats, diopped 

1 cup flour 

Drop the mixture from a spoon on to a buttered baking 
sheet. If the mixture spreads too much in baking, add 
more flour. 

Walnut Cookies 

1 cup butter }^ teaspoonful salt 

13^ cups sugar 2 cups nut meats 

t 3 eggs, well beaten \^ cups flour 

\yi cups flour Whole nut meats 

1 teaspoonful soda 

ACx in the usual manner, adding the first measure of 
flour with the soda and salt, then the nut meats, broken 
in pieces or chopped, and the last measure of flour. Drop 
by spoonfuls on to a buttered tin. Decorate the top of 
each spoonful with a nut meat, dredge with sugar and 
bake. 

Pohisettia Wafers 

yi cup butter 1 egg-white, beaten dry 

}i cup granulated sugar Flour for dough 

^ lemon, grated rind and Decoration 

juice 1 e^white 

2 egg-yolks Stnps of citron and cherries 

Granulated sugar 

Take the dough on the board (magic cover is best), a 
little at a time, knead slightly, roll into a sheet, and cut 
into shapes as desired. A cutlet cutter was used for the 
wafers shown in the illustration. Set the shapes in a but- 
tered pan, brush over with the white of an egg, beaten 



160 MVM.COOKB(Hm: 

dightly, decorate with strips of angelica or citron and 
candied or maraschino cherries, to represent a poinsettia. 
Dredge with granulated sugar. Bake to a delicate straw- 
color. 

Honey Cookies 

"^ cup butter 3 cups or more flour 

^ cup granulated sugar 4 level t^poonfuls baldng powder 



J^ cup honey 

Grat^ rind 1 lemon Glaze 

1 egg and 1 yolk 



1 egg-white 
Chopped almonds 
Granulated sugar 



Mix in the usual manner; beat the whole egg and yolk 
without separating the white from the yolks. Roll into 
a sheet, cut into cakes, set into a baking pan, brush over 
with the white of egg slightly beaten, sprinkle with the 
nuts, dredge with sugar and bake in a moderate oven. 
Bake one cake before rolling out much of the dough; if 
the cake spreads too much and looks too rich, add more 
flour. 

Nuremberg Gingerbread 

4 eggs 1 cup sugar 

1 teaspoonf ul mace 2 cups flour 

^ teaspoonf ul cloves ^i teaspoonf ul salt 

}^ cup candied orange peel 2 teaspoonf uls baking powder 

}^ lb. blanched almonds 

Beat the eggs very light without separating; beat in 
the spices and sugar, then the flour, salt and baking 
powder, and, lastly, the almonds split in halves. Turn 
into narrow tins well buttered. The mixtiu*e should 
be about three-fourths an inch in depth. Bake about 
twenty minutes. When cold spread the bottom with con- 
fectioner's frosting made with two oimces of chocolate. 
Pipe narrow threads of white icing across the cake about 
an inch apart. Before the frosting hardens draw a silver 
knife down through it to divide the lines into sections 
about an inch wide; this spreads the white frosting 
where the knife comes in contact with it. 



GAKB AND FROSTING 161 

nuremberg Fingers 

To the ingredients given in the above recipe add one- 
third a cup of flouFy and chop the almonds. Shape 
with hands or rolling pin into oblongs, similar in size and 
shape to lady-fingers. Bake, and when cold spread the 
under side with chocolate icing and decorate with white 
ioing. 

Ginger Balls 

$^ cup shortening 1 tablespoonful ginger 

1 cup coffee "A" sugar 1 tablespoonful soda 

3 eggs or 6 yolks well beaten 1 cup lukewarm water 

3 cups flour 1 cup molasses 

1 teaspoon! ul salt 2 ounces candied orange peel 

Use lard and butter, half and half; cream this; beat 
in the sugar, then, alternately, the flour sifted with the 
^ger and soda and the liquids. Bake in well buttered 
popover pans about twenty-five minutes. The recipe 
makes two dozen balls. If candied peel be used, soften 
in hot syrup, chop fine and add to the creamed shortening 
and sugar. 

Sand Tarts 

IK cups butter 2 egg^yolks 

4 cups flour 1 egg-white 

2 cups sugar 

Cream the butter, beat in the flour, then the sugar, and, 
lastly, the yolks and white beaten together. Cover 
the ^ dough close and let it stand over night. Next 
day roll into a very thin sheet, using as little flour as pos- 
sible. Cut into shapes, brush over with the white of an 
egg, set half a nut meat above, dredge with granulated 
sugar and bake at once. 

' Doughnuts 

Sift together five cups of sifted pastry floiu', half a 
teaspoonful of mace, one teaspoonf ul of salt, two slightly 



162 MYU. COOKBOOK 

rounding teaspoonf uls of cream of tartar and one level 
teaspoonful of soda. Beat two eggs and the yolk of 
another; add a generous cup of granulated sugar, and, 
when well mixed, a scant cup of milk. Stir the liquid 
into the dry ingredients, adding a little more flour, if 
necessary, to make a soft dough. Take a little of the 
dough on to the board, pat into a sheet, cut into rounds 
and fry in deep fat. 

Orange Crullers 

2 eggs, beaten light yi teaspoonful salt 

yi cup susar 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar 

\i cup ri<m milk slightly rounding 

2 cups sifted flour ^ level teaspoonful soda 

Grated rind 1 orange 

Add the sugar to the eggs, then the milk and flour, 
dfted with the dry ingredients, and the orange rind. 
Mix to a dough; roll, part at a time, into a sheet one-fourth 
of an inch thick. Cut into rounds an inch and a fourth 
in diameter. Set about a fourth of a teaspoonful of orange 
marmalade on a piece of dough, cover with a second 
round and press the edges together; fry in deep fat; roll 
in sifted powdered sugar. 

Five O'clock Cream Cakes 

Vi cup butter 1 cup cream 

H cup boiling water ^i cup sugar 

y^ cup flour }^ teaspoonful vanilla extract 

1 w|iole egg Bar-le-duc currants 

1 egg-yolk Chopped instac^io nuts 

With the butter, water, flour and eggs make chou- 
paste (see Palmerston Eclairs). Drop the paste by the 
teaspoonful on to a buttered baking sheet. Bake about 
twenty minutes. When cold, open the cakes on one side 
and fill with the cream, sugar and vaoilla beaten firm; 
let the cream mixture show on the open side. Set a little 
of the preserves on the top of each and sprinkle with the 
chopped nuts. 



GAKB AND FBOSHNQ 163 

Scotch Shortbread 

1 pound (4 cups) flour H pound (1 cup) butter 

}i pound sugar 

Put the flour, butter and sugar on a bakmg boardi 
letting the board rest against the wall, to keep it from mov- 
ing roimd the table. Break the butter in small pieces and 
work into a lump by rubbing along the board with your 
flat hand and wrist. Roll the lump into a sheet three- 
fourths of an inch thick, cut in foiur pieces and prick all 
over with a silver fork. Put in a hot oven for 6 minutes, 
then let cool a little and bake 25 minutes longer. When 
baked, it should be of a very pale, amber tint. 

Oat-Flake Wafers 

Beat three-fourths a cup of butter to a cream; gradually 
beat in two cups of sugar, then two cups of oatmeal, 
half a cup of boiling water, half a teaspoonful of salt and 
one teaspoonful of soda sifted with one cup of flour. 
Mix thoroughly, adding flour as is needed to make a dough. 
Boll very thin, cut in squares and bake in a quick oven. 

Almond Meringues 

Beat the whites of four fresh eggs dry, then gradually 
beat in one cup of granulated sugar, and when very firm 
take a spoon and beat in half a cup or more of chopped 
almonds. Lightly tack strips of waxed paper (such 
as is used in wrapping butter, etc.) on to a board about 
one inch in thickness; with a spoon' drop the mixture on 
the paper, giving each portion an oval shape; sprinkle 
with sliced almonds and dredge with granulated sugar. 
Set the boards into a slack oven to let the meringues 
dry out rather than bake. After three-fourths of an hour 
increase the heat to color the meringues delicately. When 
baked, lift from the pap^ with a spatula. 



164 XYAJL COM BOOK 

Almond MeringueSi with Strawberries and Cream 

Prepare the mixture as above; with an oval cutter as a 
pattern, pencil out oval shapes on the paper. On half of 
these shapes draw a second line, about half an inch from 
the first, all aroimd. With a spoon fill the solid ovals Ynth 
the meringues mixture, making it flat on top. Use a pastry 
bag and plain tube to fill the narrow oval shapes; dredge 
all with granulated sugar. Set the boards into a slack 
oven to let the meringues dry out rather than bake. After 
three-fourths an hour increase the heat to color the mer- 
ingues delicately. When backed lift from the paper with 
a spatula. Press the soft part of a solid meringue and an 
elongated, ring-shaped meringue together, to form a case. 
Fill these, at serving, with whipped cream and sugared 
strawberries. To make in quantity allow one white of 
egg and one-fourth a cup of sugar for each meringue. 
A cup of cream and half a box of berries will fill six. 

Pfeffer Nuesse 

1 pound sugar y^ tablespoonf ul cloves 

1 pound flour J^ tablespoonf ul maoe 

Grated rind 1 lemon ^ tablepoonf ul nutmeg 

yi cup fine-chopped citron 2 teaspoonf ub baking powder 

1 tablespoonf ul cinnamon 5 eggs 

Sift the flour, sugar, spices and baking powder together; 
add the lemon rind and citron and mix to a dough with 
the eggs beaten without separating the whites and yolks. 
Boll the dough into a sheet half an inch thick, cut out 
with a very small (about one inch in diameter) roimd 
cutter. Set same side up on a lightly floured board and 
let stand over night. When ready to bake set upside 
down on a tin, and brush over the top with cold water. 
Bake in a moderate oven. Do not brown, but bake 
through. When just right they look like tiny pots with 



CAKE AND FBOSTINO 165 

half of the contents nmnmg over. The recipe makes 
seventy cakes resembling macaroons. 

Nut Caramel Frosting 

IH cups granulated sugar 2 whites of eggs 

5 tablespoonf uls caramel syrup % cup pecan nut meats 

3^ cup boilmg water 

Cook the sugar, syrup and water to 238® F. Pour 
gradually over the whites of eggs beaten dry, beating 
constantly meanwhile. Return to the fire over boiling 
water and beat until the frosting thickens perceptibly; 
beat in the nut meats, broken in pieces, and spread on 
the cake, leaving the frosting rough. 

Fluffy Caramel Icing 

1^ cups granulated sugar }4 cup water 

yi cup sugar cooked to caramel 4 whites oi eggs 



'^*.', --»r- 



Pour the water over the sugar cooked to caramel, and 
stir until the caramel is melted; add the cup and a half 
of sugar, stir imtil melted, cover and let boil two or three 
minutes; imcover and let boil to 240® F. on the sugar 
thermometer; then pour in a fine stream on the whites 
of the eggs beaten dry, beating constantly meanwhile. 
Beat occasionally imtil cool enough to spread. 

Half of this recipe will make enough frosting for a 
sheet of cake of ordinary size. 

Trilby Frosting 

To a boiled flrosting, beaten until nearly cool enough 
to spread, add a cup of marshmallows cut into quarters, 
one-fourth a cup of candied or maraschino cherries cut 
into slices, and half a teaspoonful of vanilla. 



CHAPTER Xn 

PASTRY AND PIES 

ShorteoQing makes tender pastry, water, tough pastry. 

Equal wei^ts of flour and shortening are the pro- 
portions for puff-paste. 

One-half the weight of the flour in shortening makes 
plain paste. 

Three-fourths the weight of the flour in shortening, the 
last fourth folded in, makes flaky or semi-puff paste. 

Lard makes a soft crust, butter a crisp one. 

In making a pie, let both " crusts '* lie loosely on the 
plate; never stretch pastry to cover the plate; roll the 
paste to the proper mze; lift from the plate and let it 
contract all it will; cut one-fourth an inch beyond the 
plate; in cooking, it will shrink to the edge of the plate 
or inside of it. Brush the edge of the lower paste with 
cold water, press the upper paste upon it, but keep both 
free from the edge of the plate. A pie full of juice will 
not ** run over or out/' if it be put together properly. 

Pie Crust 

Pass together through a sieve three cups of df ted pastry 
flour, half a teaspoonful of salt and half a teaspoonful 
of baking powder. With a knife or the tips of the fingers 
work into this mixture from two-thirds to three-fourths 
a cup of shortening. When each little particle of fat is 
coated with flour, add gradually, mixing meanwhile ¥dth a 
knife, enou^ cold water to make a paste that sticks 
together without adhering to the knife or bowl. Turn oa 



PA8TBT AND PIES 167 

to a board lightly dredged with flour. Boll the paste with 
a knife in the flour, then pat it with the rolling-pin into a 
rectangular shape, and roll out into a long strip. Roll 
this up tight like a jelly roll, and use when desired. 
This will make two pies. For a more flaky pastry pre- 
pare as above, using but half a cup of shortening; then, 
when the paste is rolled out into the rectangular sheet, 
spread it with one-fourth or one-half a cup of shortening; 
then fold it three times, or roll it up, pat and roll out 
again, and it is ready for use. 

Flal^ Pastiy for Two Pies 

Sift together one cup and a half of sifted, pastry flour 
and one-fourth a teaspoonful, each, of salt and baking 
powder. With a knife or the tips of the fingers work 
in three ounces (about one-third a cup) of shortening, 
then, using a little cold water as needed, mix with the 
knife until the dough cleans the bowl, then turn on to 
a board lightly dredged with flour; turn the paste on the 
board to coat the entire surface with the flour. Pat with 
the pin and roll into a rectangular sheet. Have ready 
about two tablespoonfuls of butter beaten to a cream; 
spread part of this over one half of the paste, and fold 
liie other half over the butter; again spread one-half of 
the surface with butter and fold the other half over the 
butter. Use at once or wrap in waxed paper and set 
aside, covered, in a cool place until the next day, or even 
two or three days. 

Puflf-Paste 

Weigh out half a poimd (one cup) of butter and half a 
pound (two cups) of pastry flour. Put two table spoon- 
fuls of the flour into a dredger for use when rolling the 
paste. Add one-f oiui;h a teaspoonful of salt to the rest 
of the flour* Binse an earthen bowl and a wooden spoon. 



168 Xyhl cmkewk 

or the hands, in hot water, then in cold, letting cold water, 
changed once or twice, stand in the bowl some time, or 
imtil the bowl is chilled. Then refill the bowl with cold 
water, and in it work the butter, with the hand or spoon, 
imtil it is pliable and waxy throughout. Then pat it into 
a thin rectangular cake. 

Take off about two tablespoonfuls of the butter, and 
set the rest aside in a cool place until ready to use. 

With the tips of the fingers or a knife work the two 
tablespoonfuls of butter into the flour and salt. Then 
gradually add cold water, and mix the whole to a paste. 
About three-fourths a cup of water will be needed. The 
paste should be of such a consistency that it does not 
stick when kneaded. 

Dredge a magic cover (used on board and pin) lightly 
with flour and work it in thoroughly. Then knead the 
little ball of doUgh imtil it is elastic. Cover it with the 
mixing-bowl, and let " rest " five minutes. Then pat it 
with the roUmg-pin and roU into a rectangular sheet. 

Have the sheet of paste a little more than twice the 
width and three times the length of the cake of butter. 

Set the butter in the middle of one-half the paste, the 
greatest length of the butter over the greatest length of 
the paste. Then turn the paste lengthwise over the but- 
ter, thus folding the paste in the center, lengthwise, and 
enclosing the butter. P^ess the three open ec^es of paste 
together, to include the air, then fold one end of the 
paste over and the other imder the butter. There will 
now be three layers of paste over and three under the layer 
of butter. Press the edges of paste together firmly. 

Now turn the paste around, in order to roll the sheet 
of paste in a direction opposite to the fiirst rolling. Let 
" rest " about five minutes. Then pat gently with the 
pin, to press the paste together in ridges and break up 
the enclosed air into smaller bubbles. Roll the paste into 






LITTLE fOUKD CAKES. Pate U7 



DATE-AMD-BANANA SALAD. Pagiia 



UARLBORO TART. Pooe V. 



PASTBT AND PIES 169 

a long strip, taking pains to roll the butter betwe^i the 
layers of paste and without letting the paste break through 
to the butter. Keep the edges even. Fold the paste, to 
make three even layers, with edges perfectly straight. 
Then turn the paste half-way aroimd, so as to roll in the 
opposite direction. Let " rest " a few minutes. Then 
pat and roll into a sheet as before. Fold to make three 
layers. Turn half-way around. Pat and roll out as 
before. 

Continue folding, turning, and rolling imtil the paste 
has been rolled out six times. Begin counting with the 
jfirst rolling after the butter has been added. When roll- 
ing the sixth time, shape the paste for the article or arti- 
cles to be cut from it. 

Puff-Paste Vol-au-Vent 

For a vol-au-vent roll the paste to such thickness that 
two pieces the size of the vol-ati-vent cutter may be cut 
from it. Dip the cutter in boiling water and stamp out 
the two pieces; cut each piece again| about three-fourths 
an inch from the edge; cut one piece half through, the 
other, for the upper piece,' three-quarters through; brush 
the lower piece with cold water and set the other above 
it; cut out small figures, brush the under side with cold 
water and use to decorate the center of the top. Let 
chill on ice half an hour; bake about forty minutes; cut 
out the center and remove uncooked paste if present. 
The oven should be hot on the bottom to send up the 
paste. Cover the top with brown paper if necessary. 

Lem.on Sponge Pie 

3 tablespoonf Ills butter 3 rounding tablespoon! uls flour 

1^ cups sugar ^ V^ cup mUk 

3 yolks eggs, beaten li^t ^ teaspoonf ul salt, scant 

lyi lemon juice, grated rind if 1 cup milk 

desired 3 whites eggs, beaten dry 



170 KYfiL COOK BOOK 

Beat the butter to a cream, beat in part of the sugar; 
then the yolks, rest of the sugar and the lemon juice. 
Mix the flour and salt with the half cup of milk, add to 
the first ingredients, then add the cup of milk and the 
whites of eggs. Turn into a large agate plate lined with 
pastry as for a custard pie. Bake from thirty to forty 
minutes in a moderate oven. 

Mock Mince Pie 

1 cup rusiiui, seeded and chopped Hcupvinegarfromsweetiockle jaror 
4 crackers, rolled fine ^ cup lemon juice 

1 cup molasses yi cup melted butter 

lyi cups sugar 2 ^ggs, beaten light 

Salt and spice as desired. 

Mix all together and bake between two crusts. 



Mock Mince Pie, Spring Style 

Chop together one cup, each, of rhubarb and raisins; 
add the grated rind and juice of one lemon, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, one cup of sugar, one e^ well beaten, 
and mix thoroughly. When tinned into the plate lined 
with pastry dredge on a Uttle flour and half a teaspoonf ul 
of salt. Bake with two crusts. 

Blueberry Pie, with Meringue 

2 egg-yolks ^ 1 cup sugar, scant 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

3 cups fresh bluebenries or ^i teaspoonful salt 

2 cups canned berries 

Beat the yolks, stir in the lemon juice and berries. 
Sift together the sugar, flour and salt and stir into the 
blueberry mixture. Turn into a plate lined with pastry 
as for a custard pie. Bake about twenty-five minutes 
or until the mixture is ^' set.'' When cooled a little, spread 
a meringue over the top and retinn to the oven to cook 
the meringue. The time of cooking will depend on the 



PA8TBT AND PIES 171 

thickness of the meringue. With two whites of eggs 
cook about ten minutes. To make the meringue, beat the 
whites dry, then beat in as many rounding tablespoonf uls 
of sugar as there were whites of eggs. 



Pie 

Line a pie plate with rich pastry, fill with a cup and 
a half of large seeded raisins, three-fourths a cup of sugar 
mixed with two tablespoonfuls of flour, the juice of one 
lemon, half a cup of water, half a teaspoonf ul of salt and 
a tablespoonful of butter in bits. Cover with paste. Bake 
about forty minutes. 

Cherry Pie 

line a plate with pastry; put in as many stoned cherries 
as the pastry will conveniently hold^ probably about 
a pint measured after stoning; add the juice; sprinkle 
with half a teaspoonful, scant measure, of salt, about 
a cup of sugar and two tablespoonfuls of flour. Dot 
with bits of butter, a tablespoonful in all. Brush the edge 
of the pastry with cold water, and spread over the whole 
an upper crust. Press the two crusts together close 
on the edge, and brush the two edges with cold water. 
Bake about forty minutes. Tart cherries make the best 
pies. A little lemon juice improves a pie made with 
sweetish fruit; more sugar will be required with sour 
cherries. 

Sour Cream Pie 

Beat one ^g and two yolks of eggs light; beat in one cup 
of sugar, one cup of sour cream, half a cup of seeded raisins 
or currants, a level teaspoonful of flour, one-foiuiii a 
teaspoonful of lemon esdxact and one-fourth a teaspoonful 
of ground cinnamon and cloves. Bake in a pie-plate 
lined with pastry imtil about firm in the center. Beat 
the whites of two ^^p dry, then gradually beat in two 



172 MyAL com BOOK 

rounding tablespoon! uls of granulated sugar and q>read 
over the pie. Return the pie to the oven to cook the me- 
ringue. Let cook about eight minutes in a slow oven, then 
increase the heat to brown the meringue slightly. 

Butter-scotch Pie 

Bake pastry rolled as for pie crust on the outside of an 
inverted pie pan. Prick the paste all over and set it 
on a tin sheet to keep the edge from contact with the 
oven. When baked set inside the pan, tiuii in butter- 
scotch filling and cover with a meringue nuule of the 
whites of two eggs and one-fourth a cup of granulated 
sugar. Let bake about ten minutes. Serve when partly 
or wholly cold. 

Butter-scotch Filling 

Scald one cup of milk in a double boiler; stir three 
level tablespoonf uls of cornstarch and one-fourth a tea- 
spoonful of salt with half a cup of cold milk to a smooth 
consistency, then let cook in the hot milk, stirring con- 
stantly, imtil smooth and thick. Cook two tablespoonf uls 
of butter with one cup of brown sugar until the sugar is 
soft and bubbly throughout. Do not cook it to caramel. 
Stir the sugar into the cornstarch mixture, then add two 
yolks of eggs beaten light and diluted with a little of the 
hot mixture. Use when cooled a little. 

Pumpkin Pie 

1^ cups cooked and sifted ^ cup sugar 

pumpkin 2 tablespoonfuls molasses 

1 cup milk yi teasixwnf ul salt 

yi cup cream 1 tablespoonf ul ginger 
1 eg%, beaten light 

Mix all the ingredients together and turn into a deep 
plate lined and finished with a fluted edge. Bake until 
ihe center is firm. The oven should be of good heat at 



PASTRY AND PIES 173 

first to bake the pastry. After ten or fifteen minutes 
reduce the heat. Twenty-five or thirty minutes of cook- 
ing are needed. 

Marlboro Tart 

line a large pie plate (agate is preferable) with pastry; 
with pastry jagger cut off long strips, a scant half-inch 
in width, of flaky or puff-paste. Mix together two cups 
of grated apple, the grated rind and juice of one lemon, 
one cup and a half of sugar, two eggs beaten without 
separating the whites and yolks, two tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, one-half a teaspoonful of salt and one 
cup of thin cream. Turn into the plate lined with pastry, 
wet the edge, and set the strips of pastry over the top of 
the filling in two directions. Finish with a strip of paste 
on the edge. Let bake until firm in the center. 

Stiawbeixy Tarts 

Cut out round or oval shapes from flaky or puff-paste; 
set these on a baking sheet, prick with a fork, then pipe 
a narrow band of chou-paste on the edge of each; let bake 
about twenty minutes. For a basket of strawberries, 
hulled and washed, if needed, take a cup of sugar and one- 
fourth a cup of boiling water; cover and let stand on the 
back of the stove, stirring occasionally until melted and 
boiling; put in part of the berries and skim put as soon 
as the boiling point is reached; repeat until all the berries 
have been thus cooked. Let the syrup boil until very 
thick, draining in any syrup that may stand on the berries; 
return the berries to the syrup, let boil once, then use to 
fill the open space in the center of the tarts. 

Cianbeny Tarts 

Cut rounds from flaky paste and an equal number of 
rounds firom puff-paste, if at hand, otherwise use flaky 



174 XYM cook booh 

pastay for both sets of rounds. Cut out three or four small 
rounds from the paste to be used as covers, but retain 
them in place to ^ve vent to the steam. Put a spoonful 
of cranberry jelly on the flaky rounds, brush the edge 
with cold water and press the puff-paste rounds above; 
dredge with granulated sugar and bake in a rather hot 
oven about fifteen minutes. 

Other fillings, as jam or jelly or stewed fruit may be 
used. 

Napoleons 

Roll flaky or puff-paste into a sheet one-fourth an inch 
thick, and cut to fit square or oblong biscuit pans. Prick 
these with a fork, brush over with beaten yolk of egg 
diluted with milk, and let bake until done. At once 
cut into strips three inches long and one inch and a 
half wide. Three pieces of paste form one service. Put 
fruit jelly (currant, quince, apple, etc.) or orange or lemon 
curd on the lower bit of paste; whipped cream, sweetened 
and flavored, or cream cake filling on the second layer; 
and confectioner's frosting, white or chocolate, on the 
last layer. 

Cream Cake Filling 

Scald one pint of milk; sift together half a cup, each, of 
sugar and floiu'; add one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt, dilute 
with a little of the hot milk, and when evenly blended 
stir into the rest of the hot milk; stir until the mixture 
thickens; cover and let cook ten minutes. Beat two eggs; 
add one-fourth a cup of sugar and beat again, then stir 
into the hot mixture; let cook two or three minutes, until 
the egg is set. When nearly cold and ready to use, beat in 
half a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 



PA8TBT AND PIES 178 

Confectioner's Frosting 

Into one-fourth a cup of boiling water or hot sugar 
Qjrrup stir sifted confectioner's sugar to make a frosting 
that is stiff enough to remain in place, yet liquid enough 
to run smooth. Flavor to taste. Use vaniUa with choco- 
late. The chocolate should be melted and added with the 
sugar. 



CHAPTER Xin 

HOT Am) COLD PUDDINGS, CUSTARDS, JELLIES, 

CREAMS, ETC. 

The cooking of a steamed pudding must be continuous, 
and boiling water must be used to replenish the supply 
or the pudding will be " heavy." 

If eggs are to be added to a pudding made of uncooked 
grams, tapioca, cornstarch, etc., cook the starchy material 
in the liquid, then add the eggs with the sugar and finish 
the cooking over hot water, or protected in some way from 
strong heat. 

Baked custards or puddings in which eggs are used 
should be set in the oven in a pan of boiling water, on 
many folds of paper. The water should not boil during 
the cooking. Such dishes are cooked when they feel 
firm in the center. 

A souffle must be' served the instant it is done, lest 
it ''fall.'^ Send from the oven to the table. 

Four eggs to a quart of milk give a custard of delicate 
consistency; such custard must be served from the dish 
in which it is baked. 

Eight eggs to a quart of milk are needed, when the cus- 
tard is to be turned from the mold in perfect shape. 

Yolks of egg rather than whites should predominate in 
custards. Two yolks are equivalent to a whole egg. 

A pudding should be cooled before meringue is spread 
upon it. Set the meringue to cook in a very moderate 
oven. Even a shallow meringue should cook at least 
ten minutes before it begins to color. 



PUDDINGS, CU8TAEDS9 JELLIES^ CREAMS, ETC. 177 

In making meringue for puddings, pies, etc., allow two 
level tablespoonfuls of sugar to each white of egg. Beat 
the whites dry, then gradually beat in the sugar. After 
setting the meringue in place dredge the top with gran- 
ulated sugar. 

Two ounces of gelatine — the usual package — will 
jelly two quarts of liquid. In summer, or if fruit, etc., 
is to be held in the jelly, cut down the quantity of 
liquid to three pints. 

In combination with whipped whites of eggs or cream, 
one tablespoonf ul of gelatine (one-fourth a package) will 
jelly one pint of material (the cream is measured before 
whippmg), ^ 

Avoid heating fruit juice that is to be jellied — ^heat 
detracts from the flavor. 

The success of a Bavarian cream depends on having 
the gelatme mixture, mto which the cream is folded, at the 
right consistency when the two are combined. With ice 
in which to chill the gelatine mixture the process can be 
completed quickly and at just the right moment. 

English Plum Pudding 

1 lb. beef suet ^ 1 grated nutmeg 

1 lb. seeded raisins 1 tablespoonf ul maoe 

1 lb. cumuits 1 tablespoonf ul cinnamon 

yi lb. citron 4 teaspoonfuls cream, 

5 tablespoonfuls brown sugar 6 eggs 

3 cups ^ted bread 1 cup brandy or fruit juice 

1 cup flour 

Chop the suet fine, shave the citron, roll the fruit in 
the flour and spices sifted together. B^at the yolks, add 
the cream and stir into them all the other ingredients; 
add the whites of the eggs, beaten dry, at the last. Cook 
six hours without allowing the kettle to stop boiling. 
Serve with hard sauce or with a cup of sugar and half a 
cup of water, boiled five minutes and flavored with half 
a cup of wine or brandy. For a richer sauce use ' 



178 MSfkLOOKBOOK 

Frozen Brandy Sauce 

Mix one pint of double cream, half a cup of sugar, 
one teaspoonful of vanilla, the juice of one lemon and 
one-third a cup of brandy, and freeze as ice creamu 

Hard Sattce, Holiday Style 

Beat half a cup of butter to a cream; gradually beat 
in one cup of sugar. Divide into three parts; leave one 
plain, add cue or two ounces of melted chocolate to one 
part, and into the third beat strawberry or raspberry 
preserves or jam to color and flavor as desired* A little 
rose color-paste may be added to heighten the color of the 
preserves. 

Steamed Blackberry Pudding 

J^ cup butter ^ teaspoonful salt 

}^ cup sugar J^ cup water or milk 

2 egg-y61& 2 egg-whites 

2 cups flour ^ 1 cup blackberries 

4 teaspoonf uls baking i)owder 

Cream the butter, beat in the sugar, yolks, liquid, 
flour with baking powder and salt, and, lastly, the whites 
beaten dry and the berries. Steam in a buttered mold one 
hour and a half. Serve with blackberry hard or liquid 
sauce. Blueberries, peaches or apples may replace the 
blackberries. The pudding is particularly good when 
made with raspberries. 

Blackberry Hard Sauce 

Cream half a cup of butter, beat into it one cup of 
sugar, and then, drop by drop, half a cup of crushed and 
sifted blackberry pulp. Raspberries or strawberries may 
be used in the same way. 



PUDDINQS, CUSTARDS, JELLIES, CREAMS, ETC. ' 179 

Blackbeny liquid Sauce 

Crush and sift a basket of blackberries to exclude seeds. 
Mix with one cup and a half of sugar; let stand imtil the 
sugar melts; stir before using. Raspberries and straw- 
berries may be used. 

Baked Apple Dumpling 

Tart apples yi teaspoonf ul salt 

Salt 3 tablespoonf Ills butter 

3 tablespoonfuls cold water 1 egg (this may be omitted) 

13^ cups pastry flour % cup milk (scant measure) 
3 teaspoonf ub baking powder 

Butter an agate baking dish; into it slice tart apples to 
fill to the top; add a dash of salt and the cold water. 
Make a soft biscuit dough of the other ingredients and 
spread it over the apples. Bake in a quick oven about 
twenty-five minutes. Invert the dish so as to have the 
apples on the, top. Serve hot, with butter and sugar or 
syrup. 

Apple Dumplings 

Make flaky pastry, using two cups of flour, half a cup 
of shortening, and water as needed, foldmg m at the last 
two or three level tablespoonfuls of butter. Roll the pastry 
into a sheet and cut into rounds large enough to enclose 
an apple. Have ready some pared-and-cored apples, 
cooked in a cup, each, of sugar and water irntU tender 
but not broken, and then cooled. Set an apple on each 
piece of paste, and enclose it secure. Have the paste 
smooth on top, brush over with beaten yolk of egg and 
dredge with granulated sugar. Bake about fifteen 
minutes. Serve hot with hard sauce. 

Rolled Apple Dumplings 

Sift together two cups of sifted pastry flour, four level 
teaspoonf uls of baking powder and half a teaspoonf ul of 



180 MYAL COOKBOOK 

salt. Work in one-fourth a cup of shortening, then mix 
to a dough with milk (between half and two-thirds a cup 
will be needed). Turn the dough upon a floured board, 
and toss with the knife until lightly floured, then knead 
slightly and pat and roll into a rectangular sheet less than 
half an inch in thickness. Pare and core four or five 
quick-cooking tart apples and chop* them rather coarse. 
Sprinkle the apples over the dough, dredge with two or 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar, then roll like a jelly roll and 
very compactly. Cut the roll into pieces two inches long. 
Set these on end close together in a buttered baking pan. 
Put a bit of butter on top of each roll. Bake in a quick 
oven about twenty-five minutes. Serve hot with syrup 
and butter. 

Blackbeixy Shortcake 

3 cups pastry flour ^ \\i cups milk (about) 

6 level teaspoonf uls baking 2 baskets berries 

powder 2 cups granulated sugar 

1 teaspoonf ul salt Butter to spread 
\iixiyi cup shortening 

Sift together the flour, bakmg powder and salt; with 
the tips of the fingers work in the shortening; mix to a soft 
dough with the milk. Spread the paste in two round tins. 
Bake in a quick oven. Before beginning to mix the cake, 
mix the berries and sugar, cover and let stand in a warm 
(not hot) place until the cakes are baked. Spread the 
bottom of the cakes generously with butter. Set one cake 
on the serving dish, cover with the prepared fruit, above 
this set the other, cover with fruit, and dispose the rest 
of the fruit on the dish aroimd the cake. Serve at once. 
Strawberries, raspberries, peaches and canned apricots 
make good shortcakes. Canned apricots need a generous 
measure of sugar. Hot marshmallow sauce is good with 
strawberry shortcake. 



PUDDINGS, CUSTARDS, JELLIES; CREAMS, ETC. 181 

Hot Marshmallow Sauce 

Boil one cup of sugar and half a cup of hot water five 
or six minutes after boiling begms. Do not stir after the 
syrup boils. Bemove from the fire; add half a poimd of 
marshmallows and beat imtil they are melted. Flavc^ 
-with half a teaspoonf ul of vanilla, if desired. If serving 
be delayed, keep the sauce hot over warm water, then add 
a few drops of hot £fyrup or boiling water and beat again. 

Apricot Shortcake 

yi cup butter 2 egg-whites 

1 cup susar }4 cup piilk 

2 egg-yolks 1% cups flour 

2^ teaspoonfuls baking powder 

Fming 

1 cup canned apricots 1 cup sugar 

1. egg-white, uiubeaten Juice 1 lemon 

IVGx the cake part in the usual manner; bake in two 
layers. When cold put together with filling between and 
above. Remove the skin from the apricots, if present; 
drain free from syrup; press the pulp throu^ a ricer or 
sieve. Measure after ^ting; add the sugar, lemon juice 
and white of egg, and beat the mixture until it will stand 
alone. A slitted wooden spoon is the best utensil at first — 
later an egg beater may be used. It will take about half 
an hour to beat the mixture firm. Raw apples grated, 
banana pulp pressed through a ricer, or other semi- 
solid fruit may be used. Apricots ffve a most pleasing 
flavor. When raw fruits are used mix the pulp at once 
with the lemon juice to keep it from discoloring. Cake 
made with raw fruit should be eaten the day it is 
made. Made with apricots the cake will keep several 
days. 



182 XYfULOHiKBfHX 

Brown Betty 

Put a layer of sliced tart apples in a buttered pudding 
dish. Sprinkle with sugar and ground cinnamon or 
grated lemon rind, and cover with bread crumbs — 
center of the loaf — mixed with melted butter. Alternate 
the layers of seasoned apples and buttered crumbs until 
the dish is filled, having the last layer of crumbs. Bake 
about an hour. Serve with cream. If the apples are dry, 
add half a cup of cold water, when the dish is first set into 
the oven. From one to three pints of apples may be used 
to one pint of crumbs. Molasses may be used in the 
place of sugar. Half a cup of sweetening may be used to a 
pint of apples. Raisins, citron and nuts, all cut fine, may 
be added to the apples. 

Bread Pudding, Viennoise 

3 eggs, beaten light J^ teaspoon! ul dnnamon 

H cup sugar cooked to caramel 3 cups milk 
^ cup water 2 cups soft sifted bread crumbs 

yi cup sugar 1 cup dried currants 

yi teaspoonf ul salt 

Beat the eggs, add the caramel dissolved in the water, 
the sugar, spice and milk, and pour over the bread and 
fruit. Turn into individual buttered-and-sugared molds 
(dredge the molds with sugar after they are buttered to 
insure easy removal from molds). Let cook in a dish 
of boiling water as a custard. Serve hot with any pudding 
sauce. 

Delmonico Padding with Peaches or Apricots 

Padding 

4 to 6 halves of canned apricots 1^ cups scalding hot milk 

or peadies with a little fruit 2 volks eggs 

oyrup yi teaspoonf ul salt 

Vi cup comstaidi ^ cup sugar 

}i cup cold milk 1 teaspoonf ul butter 



PUDDINGS, CUSTABDS, JELLIES, CBEASIS, ETC. 183 

Meriogise 

^ teaspoonful vanilla extract 2 whites eggi 

4 tablespoonf uls sugar 

Put the fruit and syrup in a pudding dish; make a thick 
'^boiled custard'' of the other ingredients, cooking tiie 
starch ten or fifteen minutes in tiie hot milk before adding 
the yolks of eggs with tiie sugarJ Turn the custard ov^ 
the fruit. Beat the whites of eggs dry; gradually beat in 
half the sugar, then fold in the other half and the extract 
Spread the meringue over the custard and let stand in a 
nMxlerate oven about ten minutes. Serve hot or cold* 

Baked Rice-and-Milk Pudding 

Blanch a cup of rice by heating to the boiling point in 
plenty of cold water and then draining and rinsing in cold 
water. Add one cup of sugar, a teaspoonful of salt, a 
grating of nutmeg or a little ground cinnamon, one-half 
to one whole cup of stoned raisins and six cups of milk. 
Let bake in a moderate oven about three hours. Stir 
two or three times during the first hour, to keep the raisins 
from settling to the bottom of the dish. U necessary, 
cover with a buttered paper, to keep the top from be- 
coming too brown. If the pudding looks at all dry, add 
another cup of milk ten or fifteen minutes before taking 
from the oven. The grains of rice should be whole, each 
imbedded in a creamy mass. This will serve eight or ten 
people, and is at its best when half cold. 

Baked Tapioca Padding 

3 cups hot milk ^ ' ^ teaspoonful salt 

yi cup quick cooking tapioca 3 ^;gs 

J^ cup sugar 

Mix the tapioca, sugar and salt, and stir into the hot 
milk; let cook until the mixture thickens slightly, then 



184 XVM COOKBOOK 

stir in the eggB beaten light. Turn into a buttered baking 
dish and let cook (without boiling) until firm in the center. 
Serve hot with a sauce flavored with vanilla or wine. 



Sauce for Tapioca 

Stir three level tablespoonf uls of flour and one-fourth 
a teaspoonf ill of salt with cold water to make a smooth 
thin paste; pour on one cup of boiling water, and stir 
until smooth and boiling; add three-fourths a cup of sugar 
and let simmer ten minutes. Flavor with one teaspoonf ul 
of vanilla, two tablespoonf uls of sherry or a grating of 
nutmeg or half a teaspoonful of ground mace. 

Chocolate Batter Pudding 

\yi cups hot milk 2 squares chocolate 

H cup flour ^ }i cup sugar 

\i cup cold milk 4 ege-yol& 

^ teaspoonful salt 3 tablespooi\f uls butter 

\i teaspoonful dnnamcMi . 4 egg-whites 

Stir the flour, cold milk, salt and cinnamon untilsmooth; 
then cook in the hot milk ten minutes; add the chocolate; 
beat the yolks, beat in the sugar, then beat into the hot 
mixture; add the butter; fold in the whites beaten dry« 
Bake in a well buttered pudding dish about half an 
hour. Serve hot, with Sabayon, wine or yellow sauce. 

Tellow Sauce 

Beat the yolk of an egg until light and thick; gradually 
beat in one cup of sugar, then one cup of hot milk, the 
white of one egg beaten dry and one teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Sabayon Sauce 

1 whole egg H cup sh^iy wine 

2 egg-yolks 1 teaspoonful lemon juice 
}^ cup sugar 



PUDDINaS, CUSTARDS, JELLIES, CREAMS, ETC. 185 

Beat the eggs until light and thick; gradually beat 
in the sugar; set over boiling water and beat constantly 
t^hile the wine is gradually added. When the sauce 
thickens slightly, add the lemon juice and turn into a cold 
dish to arrest the cooking. 



Nttt-and-Raisixi SoufflS 

5 whites eggs ^ \ H cup chopped nuts 

H cup seeded raisins H cup sugar 

Cut fine the raisins and chop the nuts; if the raisins 
are chopped, they cannot be mixed evenly through the 
souffle imless they are[cooked with water. Beat the whites 
dry; fold in the sugar and prepared nuts and raisins. Turn 
the mixture into a buttered baking dish and let cook as a 
custard (on many folds of paper and surrounded with 
boiling water) until the center is firm and the mixture well 
puffed. Serve hot, from the baking dish, with cream and 
sugar or with cold, boiled custard. 

Fig Whip 

5 whites of eggs i^ cup sugar 

}4 teaspoonful cream of tartar 8 or 10 cooked figs 

Beat the eggs a little, add the cream of tartar and 
bea^ until dry; gradually beat in the sugar, then fold 
in the figs cut in small pieces. Turn into a buttered 
baking dish dredged with sugar; set into a dish, on 
many folds of paper, and surround with boiHng water; 
let cook about twenty-five minutes. The water should 
not boil dining the cooking. Serve hot with cold, boiled 
custard. Candied fruit, raisins, nuts, prunes, cooked 
apples, bananas, peaches, etc., may be used in the same 
way. The last three fruits are usually added in the 
form of a pur^. 



186 XYfiL COtXBOOK 

Zabaione 

Beat one whole egg and three yolks; add half a cup of 
sugar and beat again; set over hot water and stir con- 
stantly while half a cup of sherry wine is gradually added; 
continue stirring and cooking until the mixture thickens; 
then add a tablespoonful of lemon juice and fold in the 
whites of two eggs beaten dry. Continue the choking 
and folding until the whites are set and the mixture is 
quite thick and fluffy. Serve, hot or cold, preferably 
cold, in glasses. 

Khubarb-and-Saisin Jelly 

40 or more raidns 1 orange, juice and rind 

2 cups rhubarb ^ package gelatine 

1 cup sugar }^ cup cold water 

Cook the raisins in boiling water until the skins are 
tender and the water reduced till it barely covers them. 
Remove the raisins, add the rhubarb (in small pieces), 
the sugar, and the juice and grated rind of the orange; 
let cook, shaking the saucepan gently once in a while, 
until the rhubarb is tender but not broken; add the 
gelatine softened in the cold water, and, if needed, boiling 
water to make one pint in all. Cut the raisins on one side 
and remove the seeds. Have the mold chilled in ice water. 
Dip the raisins in a little of the rhubarb liquid and press 
them on the bottom and sides of the mold following some 
regular order or pattern. Add any raisins left over to 
the rhubarb mixture; when this begins to thicken, turn 
into the mold. Serve with whipped cream. 

Claret Jelly, with Plums 

Soften half a package of gelatine in half a cup of cold 
water; add one cup and a half of boiling water; stir 
until the gelatine is dissolved, then add two-thirds a 



PUDDINGS, CUSTABDS, JELLIES, CREAMS, ETC. 187 

cup of sugar, the juice of one large lemon and, when 
cooled somewhat, one cup and a half of claret wine. 
Set aside to become firm and cold. When ready to serve 
beat one cup of cream imtil firm. Set green gage plums 
(canned) around the unmolded jelly; pipe the cream on 
the jelly and between the plums. Have the syrup from 
the plums boiled to a jelly and cooled; set this around 
the edge. Sprinkle the whole with fine-chopped pistachio 
nuts. 

Raisins Molded in Wine Jelly 

H package gelatine 1 cup sugar 

J^ cup cold water Juice 1 lemon ^ 

2 cups boiling water 1 cup sherry wine 

\^ lb. large raisins 

If the skins are at all tough, cook the raisins in hot 
water imtil tender; drain and dry on a cloth, then seed 
carefully to preserve the shape. Use the water in which 
the raisins were cooked, after straining, for the hot water 
needed in making the jelly. Set a mold in ice and water, 
pour in a few spoonfuls of the liquid, and let it become 
firm. Arrange raisins on this to form some symmetrical 
design, and put a few drops of the liquid about each raisin. 
As this sets, it will hold them in place. Cover with a 
half-inch layer of liquid jelly. Then, when firm, add more 
raisins and more jelly in layers, until the ingredients are 
used. S^rve garnished with whipped cream and cubes 
of jelly, molded without raisins for this purpose. 

Banana Sponge 

H package gelatine 1 cup banana pulp 

}i cup cold water ^ cup sugar 

}^ cup boiling water Juice 1 lemon 

3 egg-whites 

Garnish 

" 2 or 3 bananas 1 cup double cream 

H lemon 2 tablespoon! ub sugar 

^ teaspoon! ul vanilla 



188 MVALCOOKBomC 

Soften the gelatine in the cold water, and dissdve in 
the boiling water; peel and scrape ripe bananas, press the 
pulp through a sieve or ricer; heat the cup of banana 
pulp to the boiling point, add the sugar and lemon 
juice; stir over ice water until the mixture be^ois to 
thicken, then fold in the egg-whites beaten dry. Line 
a mold with parchment paper neatly; slice the bananas 
and squeeze over them the lemon juice to keep them from 
discoloring; dispose these on the bottom and sides of the 
mold; turn in the sponge. When unmolded decorate 
with the cream beaten finn. 

Pineapple Sponge 

1^ cups grated pineapple Vi padoifle geUtme 

yi cup water ^ cup cold water 

^ cup sugar Juice }^ lemon 

2Qgg-whites 

Cook the pineapple and half cup of water about ten 
kninutes, then press through a cheese-cloth to remove all 
liquid possible; add the sugar and gelatine softened in the 
cold water and stir over the fire until the sugar and gela- 
tine are dissolved; chill in cold water; add the lemon juice, 
and when beginning to set add the whites beaten diy and 
beat imtil very stiff; turn into a mold. Serve unmolded 
With sugar and cream or a boiled custard. 

Eggs en Sttiprise 

Drain the sjrrup from a can of choice apricots. To 
two cups of syrup add the juice of two oranges and one 
lemon and h»M a cup of sugar, and set over the fire to 
become hot. Soften two level tablespoonfuls of granu- 
lated gelatine in half a cup of cold water, and turn into 
the hot liquid. Stir until the gelatine is dissolved, then 
strain through a cheese-cloth. Reserve half a cup, and 
set the rest to cool in ice water. Beat the whites of three 



FUBDINQSy CUSTABDS, JELLIES^ CBEAMS, BTC. 189 

eggs until dry. When the liquid mixture becomes cold 
and begms to thicken, add to it the beaten whiteSi and 
continue to beat (with the egg beater) until the whole 
will hold its shape. Then with it form roimds on serving 
dishes, and set half an apricot on each, to simulate a 
poached egg. Pour a little of the reserved syrup over the 
apricots, to glaze them slightly and exclude the air, 
and set aside in a cool place until ready to serve. This 
recipe will serve ten or twelve. 

Almond MeringueSi with Strawberries and Cream 

Beat the whites of four fresh eggs dry; then gradually 
beat in one cup of granulated sugar, and when very firm 
take a spoon and beat in half a cup or more of chopped 
almonds. Lightly tack strips of waxed paper (such as is 
used in wrapping butter, etc.) on to a board about one 
inch in thickness; with an oval dish as a pattern, pencil 
out oval shapes on the paper. On half of these shapes 
draw a second line, about half an inch from the first, 
all around. With a spoon fiU the solid ovals with the 
meringue mixture, making it flat on top. Use a pastry 
bag and plain tube to fill the narrow oval shapes; dredge 
all with granulated sugar. Set the boards into a slack 
oven to let the meringues dry out rather than bake. 
After three-fourths an hour increase the heat to color the 
meringues delicately. When baked lift from the paper 
with a spatula. Press the soft part of a solid meringue 
and an elongated, ring-shaped meringue together, to form 
a case. Fill these, at serving, with whipped cream and 
sugared strawberries. To make in quantity allow one 
white of egg and one-fourth a cup of sugar for each me- 
ringue. A cup of cream and half a box of berries will 
fill six. 



190 XML atOKBOOK 

Stewed Prunes Stuffed with Nuts 

Wash pnines, then drain and let stand over night m a 
fresh supply of cold water. Let simmer until tender; add 
a small quantity of sugar and let simmer a few moments, 
until the liquid is thickened somewhat and is not large 
in quantity. Make a slit on one side of each prune and 
remove the stone; fill the opening thus left with sliced 
or chopped nuts. Spread a Uttle whipped cream on indi- 
vidu^ dishes and set three or four prunes on the cream; 
partially cover with more cream and finish with one or 
two prunes stuffed with nuts. Serve as a dess^ dish at 
dinner or luncheon. 

Apricot Bavarian Cream 

^ package gelatine (scant) ^ cup sugar 

yi cup cold water (scant) Juice % lemon 

^ cup hot apricot syrup 1 cup double cream 

1 cup apricot pur^ ^ ^ cup thin cream 

Apricots for lining mold 

Sauce 

li cup sugar ^ }i lemon juice 

Apricot syrup 

For this dish with sauce one can of apricots is required. 
Soften the gelatine in the cold water and dissolve in the 
hot syrup; add the apricot pm^e (canned apricots pressed 
through a sieve), the sugar and lemon juice; stir until 
the sugar is dissolved, then chill on ice and water. When 
the mixture begins to thicken, fold in the cream beaten 
quite firm. Have ready an earthen bowl holdiog one 
quart, set a half apricot in the bottom, above this against 
the sides of the bowl set a row of half apricots, each cut 
in three or foiu- lengthwise strips; set these a little dis- 
tance apart; put apricot cream mixture into the bowl 
to the top of the apricot lining; then set in place against 
the bowl another row of strips of apricot; put in mixture 



FT7DDINGS; CUSTARDS, JELLIES, CREAMS, ETC. 191 

as before and so continue until the bowl is filled. For- 
the sauce boil the rest of the apricot S3rrup with the sugar 
and lemon juice about six minutes; skim and use when 
cold on each service of cream. 

Pineapple Dessert 

Open a can of choice, sliced pineapple. Set eight slices 
into glass saucers and pipe pineapple Bavarian cream in 
the open centers and around the edge of each slice. Cut 
two slices of the pineapple into thin triangular pieces 
and a few candied or maraschino cherries into thin strips 
and use to decorate the dishes. For the Bavarian cream 
soften a tablespoonful of gelatine in one-fourth a cup of 
cold water, and dissolve in one cup of the liquid from the 
can, heated to the boiling point; add one-fourth a cup of 
sugar and the juice of a lemon. Set the dish containing 
the gelatine mixture into a pan of ice and water and stir 
until it begins to thicken, then gradually fold into it one 
cup of double cream beaten solid to the bottom of the 
bowl. When the mixture is stiff enough to hold its.shape, 
set it in place with a pastry bag and star tube. 

Coffee Charlotte Russe 

1 cup double cream ^ ^ cup sugar 

1 cup cream, top^ of milk bottle % cup hot black coffee 

^ package gelatine 3 egg-yolks 

}^ cup cold black coffee 2 tablespoonf uls sugar 

Whip the cream until quite firm throughout. Soften 
the gelatine in the cold coffee. Cook the firstj^measure 
of sugar to caramel; add the hot coffee and let stand to 
dissolve. Beat the yolks, add the small quantity of sugar, 
and cook in the hot coffee and caramel until the mixture 
thickens; add the softened gelatine and stir until dissolved; 
let chill until the mixture begins to thicken, then fold in 
the cream. Have lady-fingers trimmed to fit a mold. 



102 xyalcookbook 

When the cream-mixture is firm enough to hold its shape^ 
set a lady-finger in place; put a spoonful of the coffee 
mixture at the base to hold the cake in place, and repeat 
until the mold is lined with the fingers; then finish filling 
the mold. Set aside to become chilled and firm. For a 
firmer mixture use one-third a package of gelatine. 

Chocolate Charlotte Russe 

(Bavarian Cream Filling) 

2 OZ8. chocolate M cup cold water 

^ cup 8u^ 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla extract 

}4 cup boiling water 1 cup double cream 

yi package gelatine H cup cream from top of milk bottle 

Melt the chocolate over hot water, add the sugar and 
boiling water and stir until boiling. Soften the gelatine 
in the cold water and add to the hot chocolate mixture. 
When the gelatine is dissolved, add the vanilla and stir 
in ice and water imtil the mixtiure begins to thicken; 
fold in the thick and thin cream beaten together until 
very light. Line a quart Charlotte Russe mold with lady 
fingers, put the chocolate mixture into it by spoonfuls. 
When unmolded the dish may be decorated with half 
a cup of double cream, beaten firm, and slices of mara- 
schino cherries. The decoration may be omitted. 

Chocolate Charlotte Russe 
{Without Gelatine) 

l^i 0Z3. chocolate 1 cup double cream 

^ cup boiling water }i cup cream from top of bottle of 

)4 cup sugar milk 

H teaspoonf ul vanilla 

Melt the chocolate over hot water, add the boiling 
water and sugar and stir and cook until smooth and 
boiling. Let cool, then add the vanilla and cream and 
beat until firm. Have ready glass cups or paper cases 



PUDDINGS^ CUSTABDS, JELLIES^ CEEAMS, ETC. 193 

lined with strips of lady-fingers. The strips should be of 
uniform width and length and should extend half an inch 
or more above the receptacle. Use the chocolate mixture 
to fill the lined dishes or cases. Cherries and half a cup 
of cream beaten dry may be used as a garnish. 

Charlotte Russci with Jelly Roll 

line the bottom and sides of an oval Charlotte mold 
with thin slices of sponge jelly roll. Soften one and a 
half tablespoonf uls of gelatine in one-third a cup of cold 
inilk and dissolve in one cup of scalded milk; add a scant 
half cup of sugar and stir until dissolved; then add one 
teaspoonful of vanilla and three tablespoonfuls of sherry 
wine and stir over ice and water until the mixture begins 
to thicken, then fold in one cup and a half of cream beaten 
very light but not dry. When the mixture holds its 
shape, use to fill the prepared mold. Slices of plain sponge 
cake may replace the jelly roll. 



CHAPTER XIV 

FROZEN DESSERTS 

It is a matter of economy of time and ice to chill a 
mixture that is to be frozen before packing it in the 
freezing mixture. 

Parf aits and mousses are a combination of whipped 
cream and a fruit or custard mixture. The two articles 
to be combined should be of about the same density; 
to secure this, use a small quantity of gelatine with 
fruit juice and pulp, and yolks of eggs with chocolate, 
coffee and caramel. 

When molding ices, chill the mold before filling it. 

When packing filled molds, reverse them after they are 
filled; this is particularly necessary when packing parf aits, 
which should be of the same texture from cover to cover. 

It is a very simple matter to unmold an ice packed in a 
mold made with two covers. 

To unmold an ice, let water from the cold water faucet 
run over the mold, then wipe dry. 

Vanilla Ice Cream (Junket) 

Heat one quart of milk, one cup of double (whipping) 
cream, one cup of sugar and one tablespoonful of vanilla 
extract to a lukewarm temperature (not over 80® F.); 
stir in one junket tablet, crushed and dissolved in one 
tablespoonful of cold water, and let stand in a warm place, 
undisturbed, until the milk jellies, then chill and turn 
into the can of a freezer. Pack the freezer with three 
measures of crushed ice to one of salt; tmn the crank until 



FROZEN DESSEBIB 195 

the mixture is frozen. When frozen, remove the dasher 
and beat the cream with a wooden spoon. Cover care- 
f ully, drain off the water and replenish the ice, but add no 
salt. If ice is scarce, use crushed newspaper with the 
ice. Cover the whole with a piece of carpet. Packed 
with crushed ice in a fireless cooker, an ice will keep 
ill good condition a long time. The space around the 
frozen mixture must be filled solidly with ice; no air 
spaces must be left. 



Delmonico Ice Cream 

1 quart mUk 2}^ cups sugar 

8 eggs or 16 yolks ^ 1 quart cream 

2 taolespoonf uls vaniUa extract 

Scald the milk over hot water. Beat the eggs, add the 
sugar and beat again, then cook in the hot milk, stirring 
constantly imtil the mixture coats the spoon. Add the 
cream and strain into the can of the freezer. When cold, 
add the extract and freeze. 

Ice Cream witii Condensed Milk 

Mix one quart of milk, one can of condensed milk and 
one tablespoonf ul of vanilla. If the condensed milk is 
sweetened, no additional sugar is needed. Crush one 
junket tablet and dissolve it in one or two tablespoonfuls 
of cold water. Have the milk heated to a lukewarm 
temperature (less than 100^ F.). Stir the tablet mixture 
into the milk; let stand until jellied, then freeze as usuaL 
This makes a particularly good ice cream; the jimket 
tablet may be omitted, but though such ice cream is 
good, it is not as creamy and velvety as when the tablet 
is used. 

Vanilla Ice Cream Sundae 

Have ready caramel or maple syrup and chopped pecaa 
nut meats. Put a tablespoonf ul of the syrup in a sherbet 



196 KYAL COmcBO(aC 

cup; add a generous cone of ice cream, pour on one or 
two spoonfuls of syrup and sprinkle with chopped nuts. 
This is one of the best combinations served in sundaes. 

Strawberry Ice Cream 

1 quart milk 1 quart thin cream 

1 tablespoonf ul oonistarch 2 boxes strawberries 

2 cups sugar 2 cups sugar 

Juice \i lemon 



Scald the milk over hot water; mix the cornstarch and 
sugar and stir into the hot milk; cover and let cook fifteen 
minutes; add the cream; let the mixture chill, then begin 
to freeze. Mix the hulled strawberries with the sugar 
and let stand an hour or miore, then strain through a very- 
fine sieve or two layers of cheese-cloth; add the lemon 
juice; turn into the cream mixture, which should be on the 
point of freezing, then finish freezing. 

Delicious Ice Cream 

1 quart milk |^ cup sugar 

2 teaspoonf uls cornstarch ^ teaspoonf ul salt 
yi cup sugar 1 pint cream 
3^g8or6yolks 1 cup preserved ginger chopped fine 

J^ cup sherry wme 

Scald the milk over hot water; sift together the corn- 
starch and sugar and stir into the hot milk; continue 
stirring until the mixture thickens slightly, then let cook, 
stirring occasionally, for ten minutes. Beat the eggs, 
add the second half cup of sugar and the salt; mix and 
stir into the thickened milk. When the egg is " set," 
remove from the fire, and when cold add the cream and 
freeze. Add the ^ger mixed with the wine and turn 
the dasher a little longer. 

Ice Cream k la Mexicana 

Put two cups of granulated sugar m a saucepan over 
fire and stir constantly until it is melted; add two cups 



FROZEN DESSERTS 197 

of En^sh walnut meats and pour into a shallow, buttered 
pan to harden. When perfectly cold, grate or chop 
fine. Crumble two dozen macaroons into fine crumbs, 
then toast in hot oven a few minutes. Make a rich, 
boiled custard of yolks of four eggs, one-half a cup of sugar 
and two cups of cream, then pour over the stiffly beaten 
whites of two eggs and let cool. To one quart of cream 
add one-third a cup of sugar and beat until thoroughly 
mixed, add to the custard, and flavor with vanilla or 
maraschino, then freeze. When half-frozen add the 
macaroon crumbs and half of the grated walnut mixture 
and finish freezing. Let rix)en two or three hours. Sprinkle 
remaining grated walnuts over the cream when serving. 
This is the typical ice cream of Mexico, just as it is served 
there. 

Individual Baked Alaska, with Figs, etc 

Cut sponge cake into pieces of a size to take, when 
hollowed into a case, a slice of brick ice cream. The 
walls of the case should be half an inch thick, and the 
full height about an iAdi and a half. Set the cake on a 
board about an inch thick. Put the slice of cream inside 
and cover with a piece of cake half an inch thick. Spread 
the whole with meringue, then pipe meringue on the edge 
above, to make a well for fruit. Meringue may also be 
piped on the sides if desired. Dredge the whole with 
granulated sugar and set into a hot oven to color the 
meringue slightly. Remove to a serving dish and fill 
in the open space above with preserved or brandied figs. 
Peaches, apricots or chestnuts may replace the figs. 
With peaches, Melba sauce (raspberry) may also be used. 

Meringue for Baked Alaska 

Take two level tablespoonf uls of sugar for each white of 
egg; beat the whites dry, then gradually beat in the sugar. 



198 MML cookbook 

Frozen Rice Pudding 

H cap rioe 6 egg-yolks 

1 quart milk ^ cup sugar 

^ cup sugar 1 pint cream 

1 teaspoonf ul salt 1 pint preserved peadies 

Put the rice over a quick fire in a quart or more of cold 
water; heat quickly to the boiling point, stirring mean- 
while; drain on a sieve, rinsing well with cold water. 
Return the rice to the fire with the milk, sugar and salt 
and let cook imtil tender. Beat the egg-yolks, add the 
sugar, and cook in the cream, scalded over hot water, 
until thickened slightly; then strain over the rice. When 
cold, freeze as ice cream. Add the preserved peaches, 
cut in small pieces, soaked in brandy or maraschino and 
drained. Pack in a mold, cover to exclude salt water, and 
let stand about two hours imbedded in equal measures of 
salt and crushed ice. Serve with a cold sauce made of 
equal parts of peach marmalade, sugar ^yrup and ma- 
raschino. 

Rich Frozen Pudding 

1 pint ridi milk 1^ cups cream 

egg^yolks 1 tablespoonf ul vanilla 

1 cup sugar 1}^ cups fruit soaked in Jamaica 
H teaspoonf ul salt rum or sugar syrup 

Scald the milk in a double boiler; beat the yolks, add 
the sugar and salt and beat again; then cook in the hot 
milk until the mixture coats the spoon; add the cream and, 
when cold, the vanilla and freeze as ice cream. Stir the 
fruit — a mixture of sultana raisins, candied cherries, 
pineapple, etc., soaked over night as above — into the 
frozen mixture. Pack in a melon mold, then bury in 
three measures of crushed ice to one of salt. Let stand 
an hour or longer. Serve with whipped cream sweetened 
and flavored. 



FROZEN DESSEBTB 109 

Plum Pudding GlacS 

3 ozs. diooolate 1 tablespoonf ul vanilla 

^ cup 8U^ 1 junket tablet 

yi cup boiling water 1 tablespoonf ul cold water 

1 quart milk ^ lb. fruit (currants, raisins, dtron, 

1 cup double cream French fruit) j 

1 cup sugar Syrup or wine 

Melt the chocolate over boiling water, add the sugar 
and water and stir and cook until smooth. Heat the mUk, 
cream, sugar and vanilla to about 90^ F.; stir in the 
chocolate mixture and the tablet, crushed and dissolved 
in the cold water. Let stand in a warm place until the 
mixture jellies, then chill and freeze. Add the fruit 
soaked over night in sugar, S3rrup or wine to cover and 
drained. Pack in a melon mold lined with lady-fingers. 
Let stand one hour or longer, packed in equal measures 
of salt and crushed ice. Serve with 

Vanilla or Wine Sauce 

Beat the yolks of two eggs imtil veiy light, then beat 
in, gradually, half a cup of powdered sugar. Stir over hot 
water until the mixture begins to thicken, then remove 
from the fire and beat until cold. Add a teaspoonful Qf 
vanilla extract or a tablespoonful of wine, and then fold 
into the mixture one cup of double cream, beaten until 
solid to the bottom of the bowl. 

Melba Cup 

Prepare a vanilla ice cream. Chill some preserved or 
brandy peaches, half a peach for each service. Also have 
ready some chilled Melba sauce. To serve, put a spoonful 
of the sauce in a long-stemmed glass; above this set a 
rounding spoonful of the ice cream; make a depression 
in the cream for half a peach, hollow side upwards; over 
this pour a spoonful of the sauce and serve at once. 



200 HYfiLCOOKBOOK 

Melba Sauce 

Pour part of the juice from a can of raspberries and re- 
serve for sherbet or other use. With a wooden pestle 
press the pulp from the berries through a sieve fine 
enough to keep back the seeds. To a cup of this rather 
thick pulp add a scant three-fourths a cup of sugar (less 
if the berries have been sweetened) and stir over the 
fire until boiling. Chill before using. 

Peaches, Melba Style 

Select large choice peaches. Cut them in halves, and 
cook in a syrup made of sugar equal in weight to the 
peaches, and a cup of water to each pound of sugar. Re- 
move the peaches as soon as they are tender. Let the 
syrup cook until very thick, then add maraschino as 
suits the taste. Have ready a sponge cake cooked in a 
ring mold. Pour the cooled syrup over it, set the chilled 
peaches above, and fill the hollows of the peaches with 
vanilla ice cream. Pour raspberry sauce over the whole. 

Ice Cream Emit Sundae 

Prepare an ice-cream mixture that does not call for 
eggs — as jimket or thin cream sweetened and flavored— 
and freeze in the usual manner. When ready to serve, 
put a spoonful of some variety of fruit preparation in the 
bottom of a glass cup; above this dispose the ice cream, 
finishiTig with more of the fruit. In their season, fresh 
fruits crushed and mixed with sugar are available. At 
other times, preserved strawberries, raspberry jam sifted 
to exclude the seeds, or figs stewed, sifted and sweetened, 
may be used. Maraschino may be added to the first two 
fruits and sherry to the figs, if desired. Preserved ^nger 
(stems, in jars) chopped and mixed with the figs, makes a 
particularly good sundae. 



WITH STBAWBEEEIES A 



charlotte; busse, with jelly roll. Page u 



POrNSETITA WAFERS. Page i^ 



FROZEN DES8EBTB 201 

Canned i^ricot Ice Cream 

Press one can of apricots (juice and fruit) through a 
sieve; add two cups of sugar and one quart of cream. 
Freeze as usual. 

Peach Ice Cream 

Remove skin. and stones and press ^tiough peaches 
through a potato ricer to make one cup and' a half of 
pulp. Add the juice of a lemon and one cup and a fourth 
of sugar, and turn into the can of a freezer packed for 
freezing; let stand until chilled, add a pint of cream and 
freeze as usual. Serve with sliced peaches sprinkled with 
lemon juice and sugar and chilled. 

Ice Cream Croquettes 

Chop fine half a cup of blanched almonds, spread on 
a baking sheet and let brown in the oven. Stir occasion- 
ally that the nuts brown evenly; when cool they are 
ready to use. Dry macaroons, rolled smooth and ^ted, 
may be used in place of the nuts, so also may sponge 
cake crumbs. The cake may be browned before or after 
being pulverized. Any variety of ice cream may be 
selected, but vanilla is usually chosen. Roll a large 
tablespoonful of the ice cream into a ball, then with a 
spatula turn it on a board (or plate) to a cylindernshaped 
mass. lift with the spatula to a brick mold lined with 
paper; put two or more croquettes into the mold, cover 
with a strip of waxed paper, and add other croquettes. 
Let stand, covered secure, half an hour or longer in a 
mixtiu^ of salt and crushed ice. Roll in the chopped 
huts or fine crumbs while giving the finishing touches 
to the shapes. Serve at once with a little caramel sauce 
on the plate beside the croquette, or return a second time 
to the mold for chilling. Croquettes of vanilla ice cream 
rolled m sponge cake crumbs (browned ui oven) are par* 



202 KMLOOOKBOOK 

ticularly good with strawberry or rafipberry sauce. If a 
quantity are to be prepared, they may be chilled m the 
can of the freezer. The paper set between the layers 
should be quite firm. Have the mold chilled and packed 
before beginning to shape the croquettes. 

Ice Cream, Tea Room Style 

To serve, put a rounding spoonful of vaniUa ice cream 
into a silver or glass cup and pour over a spoonful of 
marshmallow sauce and over that a spoonful of chocolate 
sauce. The two sauces should be kept slightly warm over 
warm, but not boiling, water. 

Marshmallow Sauce 

Boil three-fourths a cup of sugar and one-fourth a cup 
of milk, without stirring, for six minutes (until the syrup 
threads). Set the S3rrup aside to cool. When about 
blood heat, beat with a spoon imtil thick and white. Set 
the saucepan into boiling water and stir imtil thin enough 
to pour. Stir half a poimd of marshmallows with two 
tablespoonfuls of water (m a double boiler) until smooth. 
Pour the syrup over the melted marshmallows and beat 
together thoroughly. Keep warm, but not hot, while ia 
use. 

Chocolate Sauce 

Melt one cup of sugar in half a cup of boiling water; 
cover, and let boil two or three minutes; uncover, and let 
boil to 236° F., or imtil the S3rrup threads; when cool, 
beat to a cream; set over a dish of hot water, add a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla extract and two ounces (or more) 
of chocolate (melted) and beat until smooth and thin. 

Orange or Lemon Ice 

Boil a quart of water and a pint of sugar rapidly for 
fifteen minutes. Add a teaspoonf ul of gelatine softened 



VROZEN DESSERTS 203 

in a few tablespoonf uls of cold water, and strain. When 
cool, add a cup of lemon juicei and freeze as usual. Por 
orange ice, add a pint of orange juice and the juice of one 
lemon. For peach ice, use one cup and a hidf of peach 
pulp and juice, the juice of two oranges and one lemon. 

Apricot Bombe GlacS 

Press the apricots in a can through a fine aeve; add 
the i^yrup from the can, one quart of water and two cups 
of sugar, and stir until dissolved. Then freeze as usual. 
Beat one cup of cream until firm, also the white of one 
egg till dry; beat one-fourth a cup of sugar into the white 
of e^, also a teaspoonful of vanilla or orange extract, 
then fold in the cream. Lone a two-quart melon mold 
with the frozen apricot mixture, turn the cream mixture 
into the center and cover the cream with some of the 
apricot mixture, filling the mold to overflow. Spread 
paper over the ice and press the cover in place over the 
paper. The paper should extend in all places beyond the 
mold. Pack in equal measures of salt and crushed ice. 
Let stand about three hours. Chill the mold thoroughly 
before lining it with the frozen apricots. 

Milk Sherbet with Decoration 

Mix one cup and a half of sugar with the juice of four 
lemons and gradually beat in one quart of rich milk. 
Pack and freeze at once. Serve in glass cups wil^ a cherry 
andia sprinkling of ^chopped pistachio nuts above* 

Cider Frapp6 

Turn sweet cider into the can of a freezer packed as for 
freezing, and freeze as ice cream. Draw off the water, 
repack with ice and salt, and let stand an hour or more to 
ripen. Serve in small glasses, or in the thin red shells of 



201 XMLCOOKBOOK 

apples firom which the pulp has been taken. Only a thin 
shell of apple should be retamed, and the inside should be 
brushed over with lemon juice to keep it white. 

Angel P^ufait 

Boil three-fourths a cup of sugar and one-third a cup of 
water to 240^ F. Pour the syrup, in a fine streanii on the 
whites of two egjfi beaten diy , beating constantly mean- 
while. Beat occasionally until cold. Beat one cup of 
double cream and one cup of cream from the top of a 
quart jar of milk imtil firm. Fold the cream and one table- 
spoonful of vanilla extract into the meringue, turn 
into a mold, and pack in equal measures of salt and 
crushed ice. Let stand about three hours. Benew the ice 
and salt when needed. 

Caramel Paif ait 

H cup 8i]|ar li teaspoonful salt 

}^ cup boiHng water 1 cup double cream 

2 egg-yolks 1 cup cream from topof jarof milk 

)^ cup sugar 

Cook the half cup of sugar to caramel; add the boiling 
water and let cook until the caramel is dissolved and 
thickened slightly. Beat the egg-yolks, add the one- 
fourth cup of sugar and the salt, mix thoroughly, then 
cook in the caramel syrup (over hot water) imtil the mix- 
ture thickens. Let become chilled. Beat the cream until 
quite firm throughout. Have a quart mold chilled in salt 
and ice. Fold the two mixtures together and turn into 
the mold, filling it to overflow. Cover the cream with 
paper and press the cover down over the paper, letting the 
paper emerge on all sides. Pack the mold in equal mea- 
sures of salt and crushed ice. Let stand about three 
hours. When unmolded sprinkle with blanched almonds, 
sliced and browned in the oven, and crushed caramel. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 205 

« 

Crushed Caramel 

^Stir and cook one-fourth a cup of sugar m a saucepan 
over the fire until melted and of an amber color* Turn 
on to an oiled pan. When cold pound in a mortar or 
in several folds of cloth. This may be sprinkled over 
chocolatCi vaiulla or caramel ice cream. 

Ttttti-Fratti Paxf ait 

^ cup mp^ 1 pint double cream 

H cup boding water 1 tablespoonf id vanilla 

2 ^gg-whites % cup candied fruit 



Boil the sugar and water to 238^ F.; pour the S3rrup ia 
a fine stream on the whites beaten diy. When cold, 
fold in the cream beaten quite firm, the vanilla and the 
fruit, chopped fine and soaked over night in wine or 
sugar S3rrup. Drain the fruit before adding it to the other 
ingredients. Turn into a mold, cover secure — with 
paper that extends beyond the mold on all sides and 
the cover of the mold. Pack in equal measures of salt 
and crushed ice. Let stand about three hours. Benew 
the ice as needed. 



CHAPTER XV 

PRESERVES, JELLYi CANNED FOODS AND 

PICKLES 

Germs that cause fruit to spoil do not thrive and mul- 
tiply in a heavy sugar syrup or in strong acids, thus we 
have " preserves," jams, jelly and pickles. 

If all germs on and in food be destroyed, and all others 
excluded, such food may be kept for a year or longer; 
the process is known as canning. 

In TTiaking preserves, jam, marmalade and jelly, from 
three-fourths to a full pound of sugar is allowed to each 
poimd of prepared material. Such articles need not be 
sealed in air-tight jars. 

In canning fruit, sugar is not a necessity; if the fruit 
is to be used as a compote, the quantity palatable to those 
who put it up is usually added. If the fruit is to be 
reoooked in puddings or pies, it will have a fresher flavor, 
if it be canned without sugar and the sugar added at the 
time of the final cooking. 

Fruit juice for use in sherbets, punch or jelly should 
be canned without sugar. 

General Rule for Jelly Making 

Put soft fruit into a saucepan, crush with a pestle 
and let heat slowly. Cut apples and firm fruit in quarters, 
and cook in water to cover. When hot throughout or 
cooked tender, turn into a cheese-cloth bag and let drain. 
After a time press out as much juice as possible for a 



PRBSEBVES, JELLT, CANNED FOODS AND PICKLES 207 

second quality of jelly. For each cup of juice take a cup 
of sugar. Heat the sugar in the oven; boil the juice twenty 
minutes; add the hot sugar. Stir until the sugar is dis- 
solved, then let boil and skim until a little, when tested, 
will jelly slightly on a cold plate. Turn into tumblerSi 
set on a cloth in a shallow pan of boiling water. 

Often the mixture will jelly as soon as it boils after the 
sugar is added. 218 ° F. is about the right degree (mea- 
sured on the sugar thermometer) for jellies containing 
apple juice. 

Three-fourths a cup of sugar to a cup of juice is enough 
for apple and crabapple jelly. A cup of sugar is often 
used in ciurant jelly, especially if a few green currants, 
which are no disadvantage, are used. 

When the jelly is cold, have rounds of paper an inch 
longer in diameter than the top of the glass; brush the 
edge of a paper with mucilage and press it over the top 
of the glass and close against the sides. The paper will 
exclude dust. If jelly is to be kept some time, set a small 
round of paper dipped in brandy, brandy side down, on 
the top of the jelly, before covering the top of the glass. 

In canning in an open kettle, when the food is ready, 
adjust the rubber to the sterilized jar, fill the jar to 
overflow with the boiling food, adjust the sterilized 
cover and at once close secure. The jar during this 
process should stand in a saucepan on a folded cloth 
saturated with boiling water. 

When the food is cooked in the jar, in a canner, steam 
cooker or similar receptacle, and is ready to be sealed, 
adjust the rubber, fill the jar to overflow with some of 
the same food cooked for the purpose in another jar, 
or with boiling water, or both; put on the sterilized 
cover, cover the receptacle and let cook from five to 
twenty minutes longer; then without disturbing the 
cover fasten secure. The time of final cookmg depends 



206 XYMCOOKBOOK 

on the variety of food; five minutes will suffice for berries, 
while it is safer to cook com twenty minutes. 

Jars, covers and all utensils used in canning are steril- 
ized by putting them over the fire in cold water to 
cover completely, gradually heating the water to the 
boiling point and boiling for some minutes. 

Put up properly, the flhrinking of food to leave an empty 
space in the jar does not affect the keeping of the food; 
the air inside the jar has been sterilized. 

In making sweet pickles, do not cook firm melon 
rinds, pears, etc., too long in the syrup; long cooking in 
syrup withers and toughens the fruit. Heat the syrup on 
three successive mornings and pour over the fruit; finally 
reheat the fruit in the syrup and seal in cans. If such 
cooking will not suffice for melon rinds, cook them in 
boiling water first of all, taking care not to overcook. 



Stiawberiy Preserves 

Take equal weights of hulled and washed berries and 
granulated sugar; put these into a preserving kettle in 
layers, a layer of berries first; when the juice is well 
drawn out, set the dish over the fire and let the contents 
simmer twenty minutes after boiling begins; skim as 
needed; take the preserves out on plates, cover with glass 
— panes of window glass answer nicely — and set the 
plates in the sun; stir occasionally for two days, then store 
in glass jars. Some berries ^ve a darker colored pre- 
serve than others. The fruit and sugar mixture should not 
be more than three inches deep on the plates. The above 
recipe is the one used by an expert who puts up straw- 
berry preserves for sale. Miss Parloa, in Farmer^ 
Bulletin, No. 203, ^ves a similar recipe, but cooks the 
fruit and sugar over the fire but ten minutes after boiling 
is once established. 



FBBSEBVB8, JEUiTi CAKNBD FOODB AND PICKI4B8 209 

Gfap6 CQnser?€8 

3 piiitB grapes 2 oranges, juioe only 

8 cups su^ 1 pint water 

}i lb* imsatBp seeded 1 cup En^iah walnut meats 

Cook the grapes till softened; press through a meve 
to exclude seeds and skins; add the other ingredients, 
save walnuts, and let cook twenty minutes; add the 
nut meats, let boil once then store as canned fruit. The 
pulp may be separated from the skins, cooked and pressed 
through a sieve to exclude seeds and then added to 
the skins and other ingredients. In this way the skins 
are retained. The grated rind of the oranges will ^ve 
a higher flavored conserve. 

GxapeCmit Marmalade 

Take any number of grapefruit. Allow a lemon to 
each three grapefruit. Cut each in quarters, then slice 
the quarters as thin as possible, through rind and pulp. 
Discard all seeds. ' Weigh the prepared fruit, and for 
each pound pour on three pints of cold water. Set aside 
for twenty-four hours. Let boil gently until the rind is 
very tender, — sue hours or longer, — then set aside 
until the next day. Weigh the material (water and 
pulp), and for each pound take a pound of sugar. Let 
simmer until it thickens slightiy on a cold saucer. Store 
in fruit jars or as jelly in glasses. Stir occadonally 
while cooking. This marmatlade should be light in 
color. It thickens on cooling. Avoid cooking too long. 

Peach Preserves 

B<nl two pounds of sugar and a pint of water five nun*^ 
utesy after boiling bepns, and skim carefully; add two 
pounds of peaches cot in halves and then pared; k/b 
cook until tender (no longer); skim out upon plates an^ 



210 XML come BOOK 

drain off the juice into the syrup aa fast as it appears. 
Boil the syrup about twenty minutes, skimming as needed. 
Return the peaches to the syrup; let boil up once, then 
store in jars. Crack a few stones and cook the meats 
with the peaches. 

Brandied Peaches 

Prepare peach preserves; half fill the jars containing 
the peaches with syrup, then add French brandy to com- 
plete the filling of the jars. 

Apple Mint Jelly 

Cut the apples in quarters, removing imperfections. 
Barely cover with boiling water, put on a cover and let 
cook, undisturbed, until soft throughout. Turn into a 
bag to draiiL For a quart of this apple juice set three 
cups of sugar on shallow dishes in the oven to heat. 
Set the juice over the fire with the crushed leaves from 
a bunch of mint; let cook twenty minutes, then strain 
into a clean saucepan. Heat to the boiling point, add the 
hot sugar and let boil till the syrup, when tested, jellies 
slightly on a cold dish. Tint with green color-paste 
very delicately. Have ready three to five jelly glasses 
on a cloth in a pan of boiling water. Let the glasses be 
filled with the water; pour out the water and turn in 
the jelly. When cooled a little remove to a board or table. 

• 
Plain Apple or Ciabapple Jelly 

Make as above, cmiitting the mint leaves. 

Apple-and-Giape Jelly 

Take one pint or one quart, each, of apple and grape 
juice, prepared according to the dkeetions given in the 
general rule for jelly making; boil twenty minutes, add 



PRESERVES; JELLT, CANNED FOODS AND PICKLES 211 

three-fourths a cup of sugar for each cup of juice taken 
and let boil to 218° F. For a more pronounced flavor of 
grape, take a quart of grape juice and only one pint of 
apple juice. 

Flavorings for Apple Jelly 

Besides mint leaves, given elsewhere, boil the thin 
yellow rind and the juice of one lemon with a quart 
of apple juice. Add a teaspoonful of vanilla to about 
a quart of jelly just as it is turned into the glasses. Boil 
two or three rose geranium leaves in the jelly and add 
these with the sugar. 

Dewberry Jdly 

Dewberries are Hot very rich in the jellying principle, 
and while sometimes they may produce a satisfactory 
jelly, it is safer to combine them with apples. To the 
juice from ten quarts of apples use the juice of two 
quarts of berries. Let boil twenty minutes, add the 
sugar, heated in the oven, and let boil till the mixture 
jellies. Use three-fourths a cup of sugar to one cup of 
juice. To obtain the juice, cook the apples and berries 
separately. Of course, the apples call for longer cooking 
than the berries. Probably less apples could be used, and 
a jelly with more of the characteristics of the dewberries 
would result. 

Blackberries and raspberries may be used in the same 
way; both combinations give most excellent jelly. 

Mint Jelly, mth Green Grapes 

Pick green grapes from the stems; add half a cup of 
water to keep them from burning, cover and let simmer 
until tender, then drain in a bag. Reheat the juice 
with a bunch of mint; let simmer ten minutes; remove 
the mint and add a cup of sugar, made hot in the oven, 



212 XVALOHUCBOOK 

for each cup of juice. Let boil till thick or until it jellies 
on a cold dish. Tint delicately with green color-paste; 
skim as needed and turn into hot glasses. If the mint 
be crushed before it is added to the juioei a stronger 
mint flavor is assured. 

GuavE Jelty 

Pick over, wash and pare guavas. Slice fruit and put 
over to boil with just enough water to cover. Simmer 
until fruit is soft and seeds drop from pulp. Strain over 
night through jelly bag. In the morning measure and add 
juice of one lime to each quart of juice. Boil rapidly until 
juice has boiled down about one-fourth, which can be told 
by the lowered ring on the inside of kettle. Then add 
sugar, one cup for each cup of juice, and boil until it drops 
thick from the spoon and is ready to jelL 8. B. M. 

Grape Juke 

Wash the grapes, pull them from the stems, put them, 
covered, over a slow fire to simmer gently, and stir oc- 
casionally until the grapes are softened throughout; then 
drain in a bag, pressing out the last of the juice if desired. 
Rinse fruit jars and covers in boiling water; turn the 
boiling juice into the jars, set on a hot folded cloth, 
filling them to overflow; adjust the rubbers, remove the 
covers from boiling water and fasten the jars secure. 
Or, fill the jars with the strained juice, set them on a 
cloth laid over a rack in a steam cooker or canner, sur- 
roimd with lukewarm water and let cook ten minutes 
after the water boils, then close secure with rubbers and 
the sterile covers. 

Canned Pears 

CXit a dozen Bartlett pears in halves, leaving the stem 
on one half; pare and remove the cores. Make a syrup 



FBESEBVES, JELKT, CANNED FOODS AND PICKLES 213 

of one cup and a half, each, of sugar and water and the 
juice of one lemon; skun, put in the pears and cook until 
just tender, no longer. With a silver fork drop the pears 
into a sterilized quart jar set on a cloth in a pan of water; 
pour in syrup to fill the jar to overflow, adjust the rubber 
and the sterilized cover and tighten the jar. 

Peaches may be put up in a similar manner. 

Apples and berries for pies should be put up without 
sugar; berries are ready for sealing when scalding hot 
throughout; apples, when softened and boiling. The 
main point thereafter, is to fill jars to overflow, have 
the covers sterilized (made hot in boiling water) and seal 
at once. 

Canning Vegetables 

Vegetables for canning should be fresh-gathered and 
used at once. Only yoimg tender vegetables can be 
canned successfully. The length of time for cooking 
will vary a little from year to year, and depends also 
on the manner in which the cooking is carried out. 
In certain household canners the cookisyg is done under a 
heavy pressure of steam; this shortens the time of cooking. 
In a steam cooker the pressure of steam is less than in 
most canners, but is higher than when the cooking is 
conducted in a wash boiler fitted up with a rack on 
which the jars are set. Vegetables may be cooked in an 
open kettle and then transferred to jars, but in most cases 
cooking in the jars is preferable. 

Canned Asparagus 

Use only the tender portions of the stalks. Set these 
in the jars with the heads up; put lukewarm or cold water 
in the cooker; when heated to boiling, fill the jars with 
boiling salted water, adjust rubbers and covers and let 



214 xym com Book 

cook until tender, nearly an hour; tighten the jars before 
removal from the kettle. 

Caimed Peas 

Put the shelled peas into cans, filling the cans to the 
top. Set the cans on a rack, covered with a cloth, over 
cold or lukewarm water, and let cook until the water 
boils. Fill the jars with boiling water to which a tea- 
spoonful of salt to a quart of water has been added; 
adjust the rubbers and covers, but do not fasten them. 
Cover and let cook one hour, or until tender. Then 
tighten the covers and remove from the kettle; or let 
cool in the kettle, covered. By experimenting it is prob- 
able that the time of cooking may be cut down somewhat* 
Peas do not require as long cooking as string beans. 

Canned String Beans 

Prepare the beans as for the table, then pack into jars; 
set the jars into the steam cooker or other appliance, 
the covers beside them. Put lukewarm water into the 
cooker. Cover and let the jars heat gradually, then fill 
the jar to overflow with boiling water; again cover and 
let cook until the beaos are right for the table; add salt — 
a teaspoonful to a quart — to boiling water and replenish 
the jars as needed; adjust the rubbers and covers and 
let cook about half an hour. Often two or three hours is 
all of cooking required. 

Canned Beets 

Cook the beets in a saucepan as for the table. When 
tender rub off the skins (in a saucepan of cold water) 
and set into jars; fill to overflow with boiling water, ad- 
just rubbers and covers, set the jars on folds of cloth in 
a steamer and let cook about fifteen minutes, then tighten 
covers. 



FBESBBVBS, JIOJiT, CAKNBD FOODS AND PICKLES 215' 

Canned Com 

In canning com, the time may be materially, shortened 
if only the pulp be taken, the hull being more diflGicult 
to sterilize. To prepare, score the kernels lengthwise 
of the ear, then with the back of the knife press out the 
pulp, leaving the hulls on the cob. As the pulp ex- 
pands greatly in cooking, the jars must be filled only two- 
thirds full. When cooked about an hour, stir down the 
com; use one can to fill two or three others, adjust rubbers 
and covers loosely, and let cook another hour, then see 
that all are in good condition. The covers of any cans 
that do not need further attention may now be tightened. 
If covers are displaced or jars need attention, cook fifteen 
minutes after adjustment, then seal. 

Soar Gherkin Pickles 

Wash the cucumbers (select those of small size) and 
throw them into salted water to remain over night. 
A cup of salt to a gallon of water is a good proportion, 
when the pickles are to stand in it not more than twenty- 
four hours. Scmb and wipe the pickles and throw them 
into an earthen jar. Scald vinegar and pour over the cu- 
cumbers; cover and let stand a week or longer; much de- 
pends on the strength of the vinegar. When ready to 
store, drain off the vinegar, and, if strong, use to scald 
other pickles. Pack the pickles in glass fruit jars; add 
cloves, red peppers, mace, nasturtium and white mustard 
seeds. Half a cup of mixed seeds and spices is enough 
for a gallon of pickles. Scald a fresh supply of vinegar 
and pour over the pickles in the jars. Let the jars stand 
on a cloth wrung out of boiling water while the vine- 
gar is being poured into them. Fill the jars to overflow 
and cover as in canning fruit. The pickles will keep 
indefinitely. 



216 XMLCOmrBOOK 

Sweet Cttcimiber Piddes 

Prepare as aour pickles, except add sugar to taste to 
the vinegar when scalding it. Sprinkle white and black 
mustard seed, pieces of horseradish, ginger root, green 
and red peppers through the cans. 

DOl Pickles 

Boil and ddm three gallons of water, and^two pounds 
of coarse salt. Select cucumbers from ox to eight inches 
long. Wash and wipe them carefully, then putalayerof 
them in a big stone jar; one that will hold at least four 
gallons. Then put in a layer of grape leaves and a bunch 
of dill seed <»i the stalk. Go on in this way till the jar is 
fun, topping it with plenty of cabbage leaves. On the 
very top put a large stone. Fill up with the brine, and let 
it stand. Quiet fermentation takes place. In about two 
ot three weeks the cucumbers ought to be transparent, 
like amber, with a sub-acid flavor, which the grape leaves 
and dill give the cucumbers. 

End of flie Season Pickles 

2 qnarts peea tomatoeB 1 ripe cucumber 
1 quart npe tomatoes H cup salt 

3 heads celery 3 innts vinegar 

3 red pei^iers 2 pounds brown sugar 

3 peen peppers 1 teaspoonf ul musterd 

3 large onions 1 teaspoonf ul pepper 

1 small cabbage 

Chop the vegetables, sprinkle with the salt and let 
stand over night. Drain thoroughly, pressing out all the 
liquid. Add the other ingredients and cook until trans- 
parent (about one hour) ; store as canned fruit. 

Cauliflower Mustard PicUe 

Let a fair-sized cauliflower stand, head downward, 
in salted water an hour ; break the flowerets apart and trim 



FBESERVESy JELLT, CANNED FOODS AND PICKLES 217 

tlie stems neatly. Cover with boiling water and let cook 
about six minutes; drain in a colander, then pack into 
a fruit jar. For one jar put over the fire a scant quart 
of vinegar. Mix together one-fourth a cup of mustard, 
on&-third a cup of sugar, one tablespoonfulof yellowginger, 
one teaspoonf ul of turmeric, and one tablespoonf ul and a 
half of flour; pour a little of the hot vinegar over the sea- 
sonings and mix to a smooth consistency, then stir into the 
rest of the hot vinegar; stir until boiling and let simmer 
ten minutes; stir in one tablespoonf ul of olive oil and 
pour over the cauliflower in the jar. A tablespoonful 
of white mustard seed and half a tablespoonful of celery 
seed may be added to the jar as the cauliflower is put in. 
Other vegetables, as Brussels sprouts, button onions, 
slices of green tomato or thick slices of cucimiber may 
'be prepared by the same recipe. A mixture of several 
Idnds of vegetables is often preferred. 

Pickled String Beans 



Select tender beans, keep them full length, but prepare 
otherwise as for the table. Cover with boiling water 
and let boil ten to fifteen minutes; drain, rinse in cold 
water and drain again. Pour on vinegar, scalding hot, 
to cover the beans. They will be ready to eat the next 
<iay. 

. Spiced Peaches 

7 lbs. peaches 1 cup water 

5 lbs. sugar ^ cup stick cmnamoa 

1 pint vinegar }| cup whole cbves 

Remove the skins from the peaches. Have ready a 
syrup made of the sugar, vinegar and water; add the 
spices, then add a few of the peaches with one or two 
cloves pressed into each; let cook a moment, turning the 
I)eaches if necessary to soften all sides. Set the peaches 



218 XV^L t^OKBOOK 

in fruit jars. When all are cooked, reduce the syrup and 
with it fill the jars to overflow. Close the jars as in 
canning fruit. 

Pears and ripe cucmnbers or musk-melon rinds may be 
prepared in the same way. If the cucumbers and rind are 
not too tender, they may be cooked first in a little boiling 
water; if very ripe this is unnecessary. The shape of the 
pieces should be kept. 



Sweet Pickled Prunes 

Wash three and one-half pounds of prunes, then let 
stand over night in cold water to cover. Cook in the water 
until nearly tender. Drain off the water, add one cup 
of vinegar and one poimd of sugar; also, if desired, 
one ounce of stick cinnamon broken in pieces and half 
an ounce of whole cloves; let cook until boiling, then 
add the prunes; let cook about ten minutes, then store 
as canned fruit. 

Euchered Figs 

7 lbs. fruit 1 cup water 

5 lbs. sujsar H cup whole cloves 

1 pint vinegar ^ cup stick cinnamon 

Make a syrup of the sugar, vinegar and water; skim 
and add the spices. Scald figs in the. syrup oi)l three con- 
secutive mornings; on the third morning put the figs in 
jars, boil the syrup to the consistency of molasses and 
pour it over them. Put the spices into the jars with the 
fruit. If the figs have tough skins, let cook, in boiling 
water, barely to cover, imtil tender; use the water in 
which they were cooked in making the syrup. 



INDEX 



Almonds, Dbviled, 9. 
Anchovv Butter, 44. 
Artichokes, French, 101. 

French, Boiled, 102. 

Jeru^em, 101. 

Jerusalem, au Gratin, 101. 

Jerusalem, with Meat, 101. 
Asparagus, Canned, 213. 

Sprew, 100. 

Bacon, with Fbisd Bananas, 

90. 
Bavarian Cream, Apricot, 190. 
Bean Croquettes, Boston Baked, 

109. 
Beans, Baked. Boston, 108. 

Baked, Curry of, 109. 

Baked, New York, 110. 

Baked, Spanish, 108. 

Lima, JBaJs:ed, 107. 

Lima, in Cream, 107. 

String, Canned, 214. 

String, Spanish, 107. 

String, Pickled, 217. 

String, with Cheese, 106. 

String, with Maltre d'Hdtel 
Butter, 106. 
Beef, Com, Pressed, 72. 

FiUet of, 67. 

Frizzled, 73. 

Loin Roast of, 66. 
Beefsteak Chowder, 72. 
Beef Stew, 71. 
BeetSj Canned, 214. 
Biscmt, Almond, 146. 

Baking Powder, 139. 

BrookBne, 134. 

Maple Sugar and Nut, 140. 

Sour Cream, 140. 
Bismarck Rings, 136. 
Bombe Glac^, Apricot, 203. 
Bouillon^ Clam, 12. 

Jelhed, 14. 
Bread, Bran, 131. 



Bread. French, 131. 

Graham, 128. 

One Loaf Date, 130. 

Raisin, 130. 

Rye Meal, 129. 

Salt-Rising. 131. 

Southern Com, 141. 

Sweet Rye, 129. 

Two Loaves Entire Wheats 
128. 

Two Loaves of White, 128. 
Brod Torte, German, 152. 
Broth. Clam, ChantiUy Style, 12. 

Formula for, 11. 
Brown Betty, 182. 
Brussels Sprouts, 91. 
Buns, Hot Cross, 134. 

Philadelphia Butter, 135. 
Butter, Anchovy, 44. 

Maltre d'H6tel, 34. 

Cabbagb, Stewed, 99. 

au Gratin, 100. 
Cake, Angel, 146. 

Bride's, 149. 

Chocolate, 154. 

Chocolate Cream, 155. 

Chocolate Fudge, 156. 

Chocolate Nougat, 156. 

Cocoanut, 151. 

Date Loaf, 153. 

Devil's Food, 154. 

German Appl'^, 142. 

Graham Cracker, 151. 

Maple Syrup, 147. 

Nut, 150. 

One-Egg Chocolate, 153. 

Orange, 151. 

Park Street, 148. 

Spanish, 149. 

Sponge, 145. 

White, 150. 
Cakes, Blitzen Kuchen, 157. 

Five O'clock Cream, 162. 



220 



INDEX 



Cakes. Ginger Ball, 161. 

Honey, 158. 

little Obristmas, 157. 

Little Pound, 157. 
Canapes, Anchovy, 5. 

Ancnoyy and Egg, 5. 

Horaeradishf 6. 

Pimiento» 6. 

Sardine, 4. 
Canning Vegetables, 213. 
Caramel, Crushed, 205. 
Cauliflower, Baked, 104. 

Mattre d'H6tel, 104. 
Caviare, Mobile Style, 6. 
Charlotte Russe, Chocolate, 192. 

Cofifee, 191. 

with JeUy Roll, 193. 
Chestnuts Pur6e of, 91. 
Chicken, Broiled, 54. 

Cuiry of, 58. 

Hot Mousseline of, 58. 

Maryland, 54. 

Panned, 55. 

Poeled, 54. 

Roasting, 53. 

Scalloped, 61. 

Stewed, 56. 

en Casserole, 56. 

Croquettes, 61. 

Pie, Biscuit Crust, 57. 

Timbales, 60. 
ChiK Con Came, 70. 
China Chilo, 77. 
Chops, Lamb, k la Diable, 77. 

Lamb, Breaded and Baked, 
77. 
Chowder, Beefsteak, 72. 

Clam, 22. 

Clam, No. 2, 23. 

Komlet, 22. 
Clams, Scalloped, 51. 
Cocktail, Crabflake, in Green 
Pepper Cui>s, 3. 

Grapefruit, 2. 

Orange-ana-Strawberry, 2. 
Cocktails, Clam and Oyster, 2. 
Codfish, Creamed, Salt, 44. 

Cakes, en Surprise, 44. 
Conserves, Grape, 209. 
Consomm^, with Poached Eggs, 
14. 



Cookies, Dkh>, 158. 
Honey, 160. 
Oatmeal Drop, 159. 

Suick, 158. 
f^alnut, 159. 
Corn, Canned, 215. 

Canned, Pudding, 99. 

Green. Oyster, {N^. 
Com Pudding, 98. 
Crab Ravigote, 51. 
Crackers, Deviled. 9. 
Croquettes, Baked Beans, 109. 

Canned Salmon, 42. 

Chicken, 61. 

Ham, 87. 

Sausage, 89. 
Crullers, Orange, 162. 
Cup, Melba, 199. 
Cutlets, Tenderloin, 70. 

Veal, Pojarski, 80. 

Dessbbt, Pinbapplb, 191. 

Doughnuts. 161. 

Dressing, Boiled Salad, 114. 

Bread. 75. 

French, 111, 112. 

Mayonnaise, 113. 

Nicoise, 113. 

Roquefort Cheese Salad, 
113. 

Russian Salad, 112. 

for Romaine Salad, 114. 
Duckling, Roast, 63. 
Dumpling, Baked Apple, 

179. 
Dumplings, 79. 

Apple, 179. 

Rolled Apple, 179. 

£CLAIRS, SaBDINB, 8. 

Egg-Plant, Broiled, 102. 

Stuffed, 102. 
Eggs, Canada Style, 25. 

Chaudfroid of Poached, 7. 

Opera, 28. 

Poached, 24. 

Poached, k la Benedict, 25. 

Poached, Lydia Style, 28. 

Poached, 'Times Square," 
27. 



INDEX 



221 



Egg8| Poached, with Spinach, 26. 
Shirred, 25. 
Stiififed, 7 

Stuffed, au Gratin, 29. 
k la Dauphine, 27. 
Il la Grant, 32. 
en Surprise, 188. 
Baked in Potato Nests, 26. 
Cooked in the Shell, 24. 
Scrambled in Double Boiler, 
31. 

Fig Whip, 185. 
Figs, Euchered, 218. 
Filling, ButteiHSCOtch, 172. 

Cream Cake, 174. 

English Cream, 148. 

Orange, 151. 
Fingers, Nuremberg, 161. 
Finnan Haddie, Dmner Style, 
45. 

k la Delmonico, 45. 
Fish, Baked, BludSsh or Shad, 
36. 

Broiled, 34. 

Creamed, en Coootte, 42. 

Fillets of, with Oysters, 40. 

Timbales, 40. 
Frapp^, Cider, 203. 
Fritters, Sweet Com, 55. 
Frosting, Chocolate, 150. 

Chocolate Fudge, 152. 

Confectioner's, 175. 

Confectioner's Chocolate, 
148. 

Maple Syrup, 147. 

Marshmallow, 155. 

Mocha, 152. 

Nut Caramel, 165. 

Ornamental, 149. 

Plain Boiled, 156. 

Tiilby, 165. 

for One Egg Cake, 154. 

GiNGBBBBBAD, NUBEMBEBG, 160. 

Goose, Roast, 62. 
Grape Juice, 212. 
Griadlecakes, Bread Crumb, 143. 

Sour Cream, 143. 

with Sour Milk. 143. 
Guinea Fowl, Baked, 55. 



Halibut Saut6, 39. 

Ham, Boned, 85. 

Ham, Cold, Mousseline, 86. 

JeUied, 87. 

Croquettes, 87. 

R^hauff^, 87. 

Souffle, 86. 
Hamburg Roast, 68. 
Hash, Corned Beef, 73. 
Hors d'oeuvres, Italian Style, 1. 

Scandinavian, 1. 
''Hot Pot," 74. 

IcB, Orangb or Lemon, 202. 
Ice Cream, Baked Alaska, 197. 

Canned Apricot, 201. 

Croquettes, 201. 

Delicious, 196. 

Delmonico. 195. 

Fruit Sundae, 200. 

Peach. 201. 

Strawberry, 196. 

Tea Room Style, 202. 

Vanilla, 194. 

Vanilla Sundae, 195. 

k la Mexicana, 196. 

with Condensed Milk, 195. 
Icing, Cream, for Cake, 155. 

Fluffy Caramel, 165. 

Jellt, Apple Mint, 210. 
Apple-and-Grape, 210. 
Aspic/ for Poacned Eggs, 9. 
Claret, with Plums, 186. 
Cucumber, 119. 
Dewbory, 211. 
Flavorings for Apple, 211. 
Guava, 212. 

Making, General Rule, 206. 
Mint, with Green Grapes, 

2ll. 
Raisins Molded in Wine, 

187. 
Rhubarb-and-Raisin, 186. 
Tomato, 119. 

Kohlrabi au Gratin, 99. 
Kugelhopf Kuchen, 137. 

Ladt Fingers, 147. 
Lamb, Leg of, Boned, 75. 
Lamb Chops, k la Diable, 77. 



222 



INDEX 



Lamb ChopB, Breaded and 

Baked, 77. 
Liver. Calf's, Braised, 82. 

Calf's, Hashed, 83. 
Loaf, Canned Salmon, 43. 
Lobster, Broiled, 49. 
Lobster, k la Creole, 49. 
Lobster-and-Halibut en Casse- 
role, 49. 

Mackbrbl, Bakbd, Essex 
Style, 38. 

Fresh, Baked, Creole Style, 
37. 

Salt, Baked with Cream, 38. 
Mattre d'H6tel Butter, 34. 
Marguerites, 146. 
Marmalade, Grapefruit, 209. 
Medallions, Anchovy, 5. 
Meringues, Almond, 163. 

Almond, with Strawberries, 
164, 189. 
Mixed Grill, 78. 
Muffins, Blueberry, 141. 

Bran, 142. 

Commeal, 141. 

Graham. 141. 
Mutton, Boiled Leg of, 76. 

"Hot Pot," 74. 

Napoleons, 174. 

Okra, Stewed, 103. 
Omelet, French, with Chicken, 
30. 

Puffy, with Oysters, 30. 

Rice, 31. 

Spanish, 29. 
Onions, Stuffed, 106. 

Stuffed with Sausage, 105. 
Oyster Filling for Patties, 47. 

Stew, 46. 
Oysters, Broiled, 46. 

Fried, 47. 

Green Peppers Stuffed with, 
48. 

Lansdale, 48. 

Poached, on the Half-shell, 
46. 

Poulette Style, 47. 

Pabfait, Angel, 204. 
Caramel, 204. 



Parfait, Tutti-Frutti, 205. 
Paste, Puff, 167. 
Pastry, Flalnr, 167. 
PattieeL Adelaide, 62. 
Peach Plreserves, 209. 
Peaches. Brandied, 210. 

Melba Style, 200. 

Spiced, 217. 
Pears, Canned, 212; 
Peas, Canned, 214. 
Peppers, Green, Stuffed, 105. 
Pfeffer Nuesse, 164. 
Philadelphia Scrapple, 90. 
Pickles, Cauliflower, Mustard, 
216. 

DiU, 216. . 

End of the Season, 216. 

Sour Gherkin, 215. 

Sweet Cucumber, 216. 
Pie, Blueberry, with Meringue, 
170. 

ButterH9cotch, 172. 

Cherry, 171. 

Chicken, Biscuit Crust, 57. 

Cream, 147. 

Crust, 166. 

Lemon Sponge, 1^9. 

Mock Mmce, 170. 

Piunpkin, 172. 

Raisin, 171. 

Sour Cream, 171. 
Pig, Suckine, Roasted, 84. 
Pilau k la Turque, 59. 
Popovers, Whole Wheat, 139. 
Pork, Roast Spareribs, 83. 

Shoulder of, Roasted, 83. 
Pot Roast, 68. 
Potage k I'Aurore, 16. 
Potatoes. French Fried, 94. 

Grilled. 95. 

Hashed Brown, 95. 

Lyonnaise, 95. 

ki& Brabanconne, 94. 

and Onions, Escaloped, 94. 

Cooked in Milk, 95. 
Preserves, Strawberry, 208. 
Prunes, Stewed, Stuffed with 
Nuts, 190. 

Sweet Pickled, 218. 
Pudding, Baked Rice-and-Milk, 
183. 



INDEX 



223 



Pudding, Baked Tapioca, 183. 

Braad, Viennoisey 1^. 

Canned Com, 99. 

Chocolate Batter, 184. 

Com, 98. 

Delmonico, 182. 

English Plum, 177. 

Frozen Rice, 198. 

Plum, Glac^, 199. 

Rich Frozen, 198. 

Steamed Blackberry, 178. 
Puff Paste. 167. 
Puiie of Tomato, Julienne, 13. 

Rabbit, Labded, Bakbd, 03. 

k la Marengo, 64. 
Relish. Celery, 3. 
Rice, Spanish Style, 110. 
Rolls, Potato, 133. 

Quick Yeast, 132. 

Souffle. 135. 

Turkish, 133. 
Roulettes, Sardine, 4. 

Salmon, Canned, Cboquettes, 

42. 
Salmon, Canned, Loaf, 43. 

Cutlets, Pmarski, 43. 

Steamed, 36. 

Timbales, 41. 
Salsify, Melted Butter, 103. 
Salad, Apple-and-Pimiento, 125. 

Baked Beans -and-Tomato, 
116. 

Cabbage, 121. 

Cauliflower-and-Beet, 120. 

Chicken, 124. 

Cucumber - and - Pimiento, 
119. 

Date-and-Banana, 125. 

Egg, Aurore, 122. 

Egg-and-Tomato, 117. 

Endive-and-Pnme, 126. 

Fin de Si^le, 122. 

Grapefruit-Orange-and- 
mite-Grape, 125. 

lima Bean. 115. 

Lima-and-Black Bean, 115. 

Lobster, 124. 

Napolitaine, 124. 

"1912," 118. 



Salad, Pimiento-and-Chee8e,122. 

Potato, 120. 

Potato for Thirty, 121. 

Pnme-and-Pecan-Nut, 126. 

Romaine, 114. 

Sahnon, 123. 

Shrimp, 123. 

String Bean, 115. 

Stuffed Tomato, 117. 

Tomato-and-Onion. 118. 

Tomato Jelly -ana -Aspar- 
agus, 118. 

Tomato Jelly -and -Baked 
Bean, 116. 

Yvette. 123. 
Sauce, Ancnovy, 35. 

Bemaise, 66. 

Blackberry Hard, 178. 

Blackberry Liquid, 179. 

Bread, 29. 

Brown Chaudfroid, 8. 

Chaudfroid, 8. 

Chocolate, 202. 

Drawn Butter, 40. 

Frozen Brandy, 178. 

Giblet, for Roast Fowl, 53. 

Half4ilaze, 33. 

Haiti, 178. 

Hollaiidaise, 25. 

Hot Marshmallow, 181. 

Italian, 37. 

Madeira, 27. 

Marshmallow, 202. 

Melba, 200. 

Mock Hollandaise, 36. 

Momay, 27. 

Oyster Cocktail, 3. 

Sabayon, 184. 

Soubise Tomate, 89. 

Tomato, for Meats, 68. 

VanUla, 199. 

Vinaigrette, 112. 

Wargrave, 78. 

White, One Cup, 26. 

YeUow, 184. 

for Tapioca Pudding, 184. 
Sausage, Broiled, 88. 

Croquettes, 89. 

with Fried Cereal, 89. 
Sausages, 88. 

& la Portland, 88. 



224 



INDEX 



Sansacefly Baked. 90. 
Scallops, Baked in Sheila, 50. 

Ii&ed.61. 

^ la Breatoiee, 60. 
Bcrappley Philadelphia, 90. 
Scrod, Broiled, 35. 
Sherbet, Milk, 203. 
Shortbread, Scotch, 163. 
Shortcake, Apricot, 181. 

Blackberry, 180. 
Souffl^ Nut-and-Raiain, 185. 
Soup, Biaque of Clams and Green 
Peas, 21. 

Celery, 15. 

Cream of Asparagus, 20. 

Cream of Cauliflower, 21. 

Cream of Celery, 17. 

Cream of Lobster, 18. 

Cream of Oyster, 20. 

Cream of Potato, 19. 

Cream of Salsify, 20. 

Cream of String Bean, 18. 

Economical Rice, 13. 

Komlet, 19. 

Lamb-and-Tomato, 15. 

Lima Bean, 17. 

Onion au Uratin, 16. 

Tapioca, 15. 

Tomato, 13. 

Tomato Bisque, 17. 
Spaghetti, for CuUets, 71. 
Sponge, Banana, 187. 

Pineapple, 188. 
Squash, Summer, Fried, 100. 
Steak, Round, en Casserole, 69. 

Sirloin, Tivoli, 65. 

Swiss, 69. 
Stew, Beef, 71. 

Oyster, 46* 
Stuffing, Bread, 85. 
Succotash, 104. 



Succotash, Pljrmouth, 73. 
Sweetbreads, Mock, with Pnfe. 
81. 

Tabt, Mablbobo, 173. 
Tarts, Cranbeny, 173. 

Sand, 161. 

Strawberry, 173. 
Timbales, Chicken, 60. 

Fish, 40. 

Salmon, 41. 

Tomato, 32. > 

Toast, Wellesley, 138. '• 

Tomato Creole, 97. 

Timbldes,32. 
Tomatoes, Broiled, 96. 

Scalloped, 96. 

& la St. Jacques, 96. 

and Com, Scalloped, 97. 

and Com, Stewed, 97. 
Tripe, Baked, 74. 

Broiled, 74. 
Trout, Brook, au Bleu, 35. 

Fillets of Sea, Baked, 38. 
Tuna au Gratin, 43. 
Turkey, Jellied, 60. 

Rioasting, 53. 

Veal Balls, 80. 

Brown Fricassee of, 79. 

Cutlets, Pojarski, 80. 

Loaf, 82. 

Pot Pie, 79. 
Venison with Chestnut Purfe, 91. 

Wafers, Oat-Flake, 163. 

Poinsettia, 159. 
Waffles, SoAir Cream, 143. 

Zabaionb, 186. 



Intended Usefulness of Nyal Family 

Prescriptions 

The following is but a partial list of Nyal Family Pre- 
scriptions. You will note that there are different prepara- 
tions which are listed for the treatment of the same con- 
ditions. Experience has shown that sometimes one for- 
mula is more successful in certain cases, while another 
formula is more successful in others. 

Nyal Analgesic: Recommended for treatment of neuralgia, lum- 
bago, sprains, sore muscles and stiff neck. This preparation has been 
fomid to give quite prompt and grateful relief . Price 25c. 

Nyal Antiseptic Compound: This is a splendid preparation for 
treating cuts, bruises, sores; as a gargle in sore throat and wherever 
an antiseptic with agreeable aromatic properties is desired; will 
prove to be a valuable aid. It really should be in every family 
medicine case. Price 25c. 

Nyal Arnica Salve Componnd : This is a splendid salve in treating 
cuts, bruises and sores. Price 25c. 

Nyal Aromatic Cascara Sagrada: A laxative that is recommended 
in the treatment of chronic constipation. Particularly good because 
it does not tend to establish a tolerance lor the drug and thus 
lose its efficacy. Excellent for women and children. Does not gripe 
unless taken in large doses. Price 25c. 

Nyal Baby Coagh Symp: This preparation does not contain 
narcotics. It is a syrup prepared espedally for children's use and 
is usually sufficiently laxative. You need not hesitate to give your 
children this product. Price 25c. 

Nyal Baby Laxative: It is very efficient without causing griping 
or purging. It is sufficiently mild that it will not cause any annoy- 
ance. Price 25c. 

Nyal Beef, Iron and Wine: Reoonmiended asa splendid tonic, 
appetizer and aid to digestion. This is a high quality product. 

Nyal Camplio-Mentiiolated Balm: A non-irritatmg dressing for 
wounds; very soothing when applied locally in nostalgia, colds and 
other irritating oonditionaof the nasal mucous membranes. Price 25c. 



226 NTAL FAMILY PRESCRIPTIONS 

Nyal Catarrhal Balm: Intended for treating catarrhal conditions 
of no6e and throat and for local application in hay fever, colds, 
rhinitis. Two sizes, 25c and 50c. 

Nyal Compoiind Wild Cherry Cough Symp: Intended for treat- 
ment of coughs and colds as an expectorant; a soothing qrrup for 
congested conditions of the throat. 

Three sizes: 25c, 50c and $1.00. 

Nyal Com Remorer: Softens the com, permitting its quick, 
painless removal after four or five applications. Can be applied 
without injuring delicate, healthy skin. 

Nyal Croup OiBtment: A local application in cases oi spasmodic 
croup. Has a soothing effect, reUeves congestion and hastens the 
restoration of normal breathing. Price 50c. 

Nyal Dlaniioea Mixture: Quite effective in the treatment of 
Summer complaint and diarrhoea. Recommended for use at the 
beginning of the attack. Two sizes, 25c and 50c. 

• 

Nyal Digestive Tablets: This preparation supplies pepsin, rennin 
and diatase which promote digestion; and carminatives to stimulate 
the natural flow of stomach juices. This is a highly satisfactory 
treatment. Two sizes, 25c and 50c. 

Nyal EasHSm: Intended to be dusted in the stockings as well as 
to be rubbed on the feet. Sploidid for relieving tired, aching feet; 
also destroys disagreeable odors and lessens excessive perspiration. 

Price 25c. 

Nyal Eczemi (Hntment: Particularly good for skin affections 
generally, as well as for eczema; reduces and overcomes itching, pro- 
motes healing and acts as a cooling, soothing dressing to the 
affected skin. Price 50c. 

Nyal Emulsion Cod Liver Ofl: Contains 40% high quality cod 
liver oil combined with hypophosphites of lime and soda prepared as 
a palatable nutritive tonic. Valuable in wasting diseases and as 
a^tonic for convalescents. Two sizes, 50c and $1.00. 

Nyal Eye Water: Reconunended for application to tired, aching 
eyes, conjimctivitis, styes, pink eye and inflamed eyes. Price 25c. 

Nyal Flgsen: A most popular tablet for constipation. Very 
prompt, pleasant and thorough in its action. It does not gripe 
nor purge. It is particularly good for children, aged persons and 
invalids as well as for the most robust because it is eaten and tastes 
like a pleasant confection. Three sizes, 10c, 25c and 50c. 

In certain conditions, headache remedies are very needful and 
bdpf ul, particularly in emergency cases or to afford temporary relief 



NYAL FAMILY PRESCRIPTIONS 227 

in cases that require medical attention. Nyal headache prepara- 
tions are designed for emergency uses. We ^ways recommend that 
where there is a continuance or reoccurrence of headache, that 
every medical assistance be sought. Nyal headache preparations 
are not intended for continued use. 

Nyal Headache Powders: Two sizes, 10c and 25c. 

Nyal Headaclie Tablets: Two sizes, 10c and 25c. 

Nyal Headache Wafers: Two sizes, 10c and 25c. 

Nyal Hot Springs Brand Medicine: A general alterative and 
blood tonic. Splendid for use at any time of the year with beneficial 
results in the treatment of conditions popularly denominated as 
^'blood disorders.'' This preparation has met with splendid success 
and we highly recommend it. Price $1.00. 

Nyal Huskeys: Amber colored antiseptic throat pastilles — cool- 
ing and soothing to the throat. Splendid as an aid in relieving 
-cough, hoarseness and throat irritation. Price 25c. 

Nyal Laxacold: A most excellent and very efficient preparation 
for stopping the disagreeable symptoms that accompany a cold. It 
possesses laxative properties, keeping the bowels open which hastens 
reUef. Price 25c. 

Nyal Laxative Herbs : In this prep£iration we have combined some 
of the best and most popular herbal laxatives. Result is a desirable 
mixture for the relief of constipation and one that wiU appeal to 
those desiring a good old fashioned medicine. Price 25c. 

Nyal Liniment : This will be found useful in cases of pains, sprains, 
neuralgia and those other minor affections where a coimter-irritant is 
needed. Two sizes, 25c and 50c. 

Nyal liver Salt: An effervescent saline laxative with lithium 
citrate which is considered of especial value in the treatment of those 
who suffer from rheumatism and indigestion. 

Two sizes, 25c and 50c. 

Nyal Malt Wild Cherry and Cod Liver Compound with Hjrpo- 
phosphites: A reconstructive tonic particularly useful in cases of 
malnutrition and wasting diseases. When one is "run down" and 
must build up, this tonic helps the assimilation of food, promotes 
strength, acts to increase the number of red corpuscles. In the 
wasting of tuberculosis, convalescents from typhoid fever and for 
the aged it will be found very acceptable. Price $1.00. 

Nyal Pain Reliever: Particularly good in cases of colic pains that 
sometimes follow the' drinking of very cold or impure water, eating 
of unripe fruit, exposure to cold, etc. Two sizes, 25c and 50c. 



NTAL FAMILT PBESCRIFTIONS 

Nyal Peprin Cordial : This preparation afFords splendid results in 
cases of dyspepsia or heartburn and in many cases of gastric irritation 
it wiU afford very grateful relief . Price 50c. 

Nyal Prickly Heat Powder: For Summer rashes due to heat. 
This powder wiU be found particularly pleasing and effective for 
application to the skin rashes so prevalent with babies. It is very 
soothing and useful for both adults and infants. Price 25c, 

Nyal Rectone : An application for the relief of piles. It is a very 
healing application and is in a convenient collapsible tube with 
special rectal tube for convenient and practical application directly 
to the effected parts. Price 50c. 

Nyal Soothing Symp: This preparation does not contain any 
narcotics. It is a sedative syrup with eplendid qualities for quieting 
fretful children. It is perfectly harmless though quite effective. 

Price 25c. 

Nyal Stone Root Compound: This product has been found a 
very valuable diuretic, stimulating the kidneys, thus eliminating 
substances that are harmful to health. In some forms of irritated 
bladder, it helps to relieve congestion. We know of no preparation 
for kidney treatment that has been more successful. 

Two sizes, 50c. and 11.00. 

Nyal Throat Gargle* An antiseptic throat gargle very helpful in 
tonsUitis or simple sore throat; also acts as a prophylactic aiding and 
preventing severer forms of throat ailments. Price 50c. 

Nyal Tonic: An excellent invigorating tonic designed to stimulate 
the appetite and promote nourishment to the muscles and nerves. 
Also a splendid stomachic tonic. Price $1.00. 

Nyal Vegetable Prescription: This is a combination of herbs of 
well known reputation for those nervous and functional disorders 
peculiar to women. It has been found a very desirable and de- 
pendable preparation for aiding Nature in restoring the natural 
functions. We really know of no preparation that has provided 
such relief and satisfaction. Price J|l. 00. 

Nyal Winter Cough Syrup: A pleasant and palatable syrup for 
coughs^ bronchial irritation, hacldng coughs and tickling throat 
sensations. It aids by its expectorant action, in expelling the 
accumulated mucous and relieving the tight congested feeling as- 
sociated with many bronchial troubles. 

, Three sizes, 25c, 50c and $1.00. 

Nyal Worm Wafers: This preparation is designed to be eaten 
like candy, therefore removing what is usually the most objectionable 
feature with similar pr^>arations. Its action is the same as the 
worm syrup. Price 25c. 





MadehilMir 



!!fl!!=^'|i 



I 



8 



i ■ 



lilt ' \ 

0329V9"y900 




i 



