Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



I 



The Arthur and Elizabeth 

SCHLESINGER LIBRARY 

on the History of Women 

in America 

RADCLIFFE COLLEGE 



Gift of Scfiiie Coe 




The New Cookery 



By LENNA FRANCES COOPER 

Director of the Battle Creek Sanitarium School of Home Economics, 
Head Dietitian of the Battle Creek Sanitarium 



A BOOK OF RECIPES 

Most of Which are in Use at the Battle Creek Sanitarium 

Illustrated 



Published by 

THE GOOD HEALTH PUBLISHING CO. 
Battle Creek, Michigan 



I 

« • 



# 



C.-y 



Copyright 

1913 

Lenna F. Cooper 






Co Sj^v ^otbtt 



WHO NOT ONLY 
GAVE HER DAUGHTER HER FIRST INSTRUCTION 

IN Household Arts 

BUT BY HER CONSTANT LoVE AND DeVOTION 

has been an 
Inspiration and an Ideal. 

This Book 

is affectionately dedicated 

BY THE Author 



t 
I 



• « 



No flocks that roam the valley free. 
To slaughter I condemn; 
Taught by that Power that pities me, 
I learn to pity them; 

But from the mountain's grassy side, 
A guiltless feast I bring; 
A scrip with herbs and fruits supplied. 
And water from the spring." 

— Coldsmith. 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER . PAGE 

I The Art of Preparing Foods 1- 9 

II Beverages 10- 14 

III Cereals 15-22 

IV Fermented Breads 23- 32 

V Unf ermented Breads 33- 45 

VI Sandwiches 46- 50 

VII Dairy Products 51- 52 

VIII Cream Soups 53- 67 

IX Plain Soups 67-80 

X Meat Substitutes and Entrees 81-103 

. XI Macaroni and Italian Pastes ". .104-108 

XII Eggs 109-114 

XIII Gravies and Sauces 115-120 

XIV Vegetables 121-152 

XV Salads and Relishes 153-174 

XVI Toasts 175-180 

XVII Fruits and Fruit Desserts 181-199 

XVIII Custards and Cold Desserts 200-212 

XIX Frozen Desserts 213-217 

XX Pastry and Pies 218-227 

XXI Cakes 228-242 

XXII Cake Fillings and Icings 243-245 

XXIII Hot Puddings 246-251 

XXIV Sauces for Puddings 252-255 

XXV Canning and Preserving 256-270 

XXVI Invalid Dishes 271-277 

XXVII Balanced Menus 278-287 



ILLUSTRATIONS 



A Table Set for Dinner Frontispiece 

Measuring 7 

Corn Pones, Pearl Barley with Dates, Boiled Rice .... 19 

Peanut Roast, Nut Fillet 83 

Macaroni with Kidney Beans, Savory Roast or Mock 
Turkey 106 

Onions and Eggs in White Sauce, Potato Puff, Creamed 
Okra on Toast '. 147 

Yogurt Cheese Salad, Celery Sandwiches 168 

Fruit Cocktail 181 

Baked Bananas, Pastry Strips, Tea Pretzels 226 

Salpicon of Fruit, Steamed Fruit Pudding with Sauce, 
Cake Decorated with Ornamental Frosting 243 



FOREWORD 



"A good cool^ can vary the flavors of food as a composer varies 
his orchestral colors and harmonies^ getting genuine artistic as i»ell 
as gastronomic pleasure therefrom" — Henry T. Finoh, 

OF THE many duties that fall to the housewife, none 
are of greater importance than the planning and 
preparation of the meals. Life is maintained 
through the intake of air, water and food. But food must 
be digested before it is of avail to the body. Cooking 
renders food more or less digestible according to the 
method used and its adaptability to that particular food. 

Until recent years, little attention has been paid to 
the scientific preparation and selection of foods. For 
many years men have been versed in the proper feeding of 
stock, but strange to say, it has only recently occurred to 
man that equally as good results come from the proper feed- 
ing of the human being as from the scientific care of animals. 

The medical profession as well as other scientific men 
are now turning their attention to dietetics to such an ex- 
tent that it is to be hoped that most of the chronic illnesses 
may soon be a thing of the past and that human life may 
be prolonged and health instead of disease become con- 
tagious. 

For some years, scientific men have been trying to de- 
termine both the amount of food and the proportion of 



FOREWORD 

food constituents, viz., protein, fat and carbohydrates, 
necessary to maintain a normal man in health. 

Various scientists have established dietary standards 
based upon observations of the dietetic habits of groups or 
classes of people. But we are indebted to Prof. K. H. 
Chittenden, dean of physiology, Yale University, for the 
most scientific study ever conducted along this line. 

As the result of his experiments, we now know that the 
health and efficiency of the organism is not only maintained 
but is increased by the use of a lesser quantity of food and 
a smaller proportion of protein than was formerly supposed 
necessary. Standards based upon Prof. Chittenden's ex- 
periments are said to be ** low-protein. " 

Housewives who have long been accustomed to provid- 
ing meat and other * ' high protein ' ' dishes for their families 
are ofttimes at a loss to know how to prepare a well-bal- 
anced meal without these articles and at the same time 
serve a palatable and attractive meal. 

We are indebted to Pawlow of Bussia for establishing 
the relation between appetite and digestion. His experi- 
ments have shown that digestion is markedly affected by ap- 
petite, which in turn is stimulated by three senses, viz., 
sight, smell, and taste. 

Hence it is almost equally as important that food should 
be prepared appetizingly as that it should be well cooked. 
Many **food reformers" and faddists have attempted to 
prepare wholesome foods but have neglected the almost 
equally important requirement — palatability. 

This combination of wholesomely prepared and palatable 



FOREWORD 

foods constitutes in a sense a New Cookery. It is the hope 
of the author that this little volume may be of service to 
many who may need a guide in the cookery which has for 
its object, efficiency of body and mind. 

The author wishes to express her indebtedness to Dr. 
and Mrs. J. H. Kellogg who first inspired her with a love 
for the study of foods and their scientific preparation and 
who have since been constant sources of help and encourage- 
memt. 

She would also acknowledge her indebtedness to Miss 
Clara B. Lambert, who for several years was associated with 
the author and has contributed to this volume both by 
helpful suggestions and by numerous recipes. 

To Mrs. Estella F. Eitter and numerous other assistants, 
also to many friends, students, and several members of the 
staflf of cooks at the Battle Creek Sanitarium, she is also 
grateful for contributed recipes or helpful suggestions. 

Lenna Frances Cooper. 



The New Cookery 

CHAPTER I 

Cooking is the Art of Preparing Foods for the 

Nourishment of the Body by Means of 

Dressing or the Application of Heat. 

MANY foods to which heat is not applied serve to nourish 
the body. Fresh fruits, nuts, frozen dishes, salads, 
fruit beverages and some vegetables are prepared without 
the aid of heat. Dried cereals and most vegetables as 
well as some fruits require the application of heat as a 
preparation for digestion ; but we are continually learning 
through scientific research the necessity of including in 
the bill of fare a more liberal share of natural foodstuffs 
which have not been subjected to the chemical changes pro- 
duced by a boiling or baking temperature. 

Heat is a result of combustion, a chemical process 
whereby oxygen is united with other substances. The term 
as usually applied means a rapid union of oxygen with some 
combustible substance, whereby heat and light are produced, 
such as occurs when wood or coal is ignited. 

Oxygen is one of the eighty or ninety elements out of 
which all the material universe is made. It is an invisible 
gas in which substances burn readily but which of itself does 
not produce heat, although it is absolutely essential to com- 
bustion. It is the active constituent of the air, hence a 
draft — air — ^is necessary for heat production in a stove or 
range. 

A fuel is a substance which unites with oxygen to pro- 
duce heat. All fuels contain carbon in large quantities 



2 THE NEW COOKERY 

and hydrogen and oxygen in considerable quantities. The 
amount of heat produced by a fuel is dependent upon the 
proportion of these two elements. Carbon is the essential 
element in all of the solid and semi-solid fuels and is also 
a component part of the liquid and gaseous fuels. Char- 
coal and coke are almost pure carbon; anthracite coal is 
about ninety per cent carbon. Hydrogen forms an impor- 
tant part in all of the gaseous fuels and also enters into the 
composition of all the solid and semi-solid fuels with the 
exception of charcoal, coke and pure anthracite. 

TO BUILD A FIRE 

It is quite as important that the cook should understand 
the mechanism of her stove as that an engineer should 
understand his machine. Before undertaking to use the 
stove the covers should be removed, doors opened, and 
a thorough inspection made to discover where the dami)ers 
are located, how they operate, etc. The essential part/S of 
a stove are, a fire-box, grate, ash-box, stove pipe, oven and 
dampers for drafts. The door below the fire-box is the 
opening for the admission of oxygen. There is also an 
oven damper, a damper in the stove pipe and a damper at 
the top of the fire-box opening into the fire. The greater 
the amount of oxygen admitted, the greater is the amount 
of heat produced, hence when starting a fire the oxygen 
draft or door below the fire-box is opened as well as the 
damper in the stove pipe, thus creating a direct draft. To 
quickly reduce the heat close the damper in the stove pipe, 
shut off the oxygen draft and open the check draft which 
is in front of the stove and just above the oxygen draft. 
It is also above the fire-box. For baking, close the oven 
damper which forces the heated air around the oven 
before it enters the pipe. The oven is a metal box sur- 



THE ART OP PREPARING FOODS d 

romided by a space through which the heat travels. The 
metal is a good non-conductor and allows the heat to 
penetrate its walls, thus imparting it to the foods which it 
contains. 

The steps in building a fire are as follows : 

1 — Clean out the stove. 

2 — ^Brush ashes from the top of the oven. 

3 — Place the materials for making the fire. 

4 — ^Regulate the dampers. 

5 — Brush the stove and the hearth. 

6 — ^Blacken the stove if necessary. 

7 — ^Apply the match. 

8 — Polish the stove if blackened. 

9 — Regulate the. drafts. 

STRUCTURE OF THE GAS FLAME 

The gas flame consists of three distinct portions. The 
inner portion which is almost invisible consists of the un- 
burned gas which comes in a constant stream, due to the 
pressure of the gas system. Surrounding this inner portion 
is a luminous section which consists of carbon particles 
heated to the point of luminosity by the ignited hydrogen. 
The outer portion of the flame forms an almost invisible 
sheath consisting of the burned particles of carbon and 
the hydrogen. The inner or dark portion gives absolutely 
no heat. The luminous portion supplies some heat, but the 
greater amount of heat is supplied by the outer, the al- 
most invisible section. When more gas is supplied than 
can be oxidized, the carbon particles of the gas are only 
partially oxidized, and hence produce a yellow flame rather 
than a blue one. This is due to too great a pressure or an 
insufficient amount of air which is necessary for the combus- 



4 THE NEW COOKERY 

tion. The gas flame must have oxygen as well as any other 
flame. This is admitted through a small opening called the 
mixer, which is placed a short distance from the flame. 
Indeed, if a sufficient amount of oxygen is admitted through 
the mixer, it is possible to oxidize all of the carbon particles 
so that the luminous portion is omitted entirely. This then 
produces the blue flame, so much desired for heating pur- 
poses. 

TO LIGHT THE TOP BUBNER OF A GAS RANGE 

Light the match. Turn the gas on full. Apply the 
match. If the gas bums yellow, turn it off at once. Turn 
on and allow the gas to flow a few seconds and relight. 

TO LIGHT OVEN BURNERS 

Open both doors of stove. Light match. Turn on mid- 
dle burner or lighter at side of stove and apply match 
quickly close to the stove. Turn on the two side burners. 
Turn off middle burner. Look in broiling oven to see if 
properly lighted. Close the oven door. Close the broiler 
door slowly. It is important to take the precaution of open- 
ing both oven doors before applying the match, as gas 
sometimes escapes into the oven, causing an explosion when 
the match is applied. 

TO REGULATE HEAT OF THE OVEN 

Turn the gas on full for five or six minutes, or until the 
oven reaches the desired temperature, then turn the burners 
partly off. Always allow at least ten minutes for regulating 
the temperature of the oven. 

The methods of cooking are boiling, stewing, steaming, 
broiling, baking, frying, sauteing, braising, fricasseeing and 
fireless cooking. 



THE ART OP PREPARING FOODS 5 

Boiling is cooking in water at a temperature of 212 de- 
grees Fahrenheit. This temperature is indicated by the 
bubbling which takes place as the steam and watery vapor 
are given ofif. The escape of steam means loss of heat. It is 
impossible by the ordinary methods of cooking to raise the 
temperature of water above 212 degrees Fahrenheit. An 
excess of heat escapes in the steam which is given off, hence 
it is not economical to cook foods violently, as water in 
violent agitation conveys no more heat to the foods than 
that which is bubbling gently. 

Foods are said to simmer at 185 degrees F. 

Stewing is cooking in a small amount of water at a low 
temperature, 160 degrees to 180 degrees F., for a long time. 

Steaming is cooking in contact with steam at 212 degrees. 
This is usually accomplished by placing the food receptacle 
in a colander, which in turn is set over a vessel of boiling 
water. The colander is then covered to prevent the escape 
of the steam. Steamers are also used for the same purpose. 
Foods are also said to be steamed when cooked in a double 
boiler. This is also sometimes known as dry steaming. 
Foods cooked in the inner portion of a double boiler never 
boil, but may reach a temperature of 200° to 206° F. 

Broiling is cooking over or before a clear fire or glowing 
coals. Broiling may also be done under gas. The food to be 
broiled is usually placed on the broiler and laid near the 
coals. The object is to first sear the outside in order to 
prevent the escape of the flavor and juices, then a lower 
temperature is maintained to penetrate to the inner portion 
of the food. The food to be broiled must be turned fre- 
quently to prevent the escape of the juices. 

Pan Broiling is an adaptation of this method to modern 
methods of cooking. This is accomplished by placing the 
food over a hot griddle with only sufficient fat to prevent 
sticking. The food must be turned often as for broiling. 



6 THE NEW COOKERY 

Bodsting is also cooking before a clear fire much the 
same way as for broiling. This method has given way al- 
most entirely to baking, though we still use this term when 
applied to certain articles cooked in the oven. 

Baking is cooking in the oven. Different temperatures 
are needed for the cooking of various kinds of foods. A 
slow oven is from 270 degrees to 350 degrees Fahrenheit, a 
moderate oven 350 degrees to 400 degrees Fahrenheit, a 
quick oven 400 degrees to 480 degrees Fahrenheit. 

Frying is cooking by immersing in hot fat. The tem- 
peratures should vary according to the variety of food 
used. Foods prepared in this way are much less digestible 
than when prepared in almost any other way. This is due 
both to the effect upon the fat and the effect upon the food 
constituents. Fats subjected to the high temperatures for 
frying are somewhat decomposed and made less digestible. 
There is some uncertainty as to just what changes take 
place, but the probabilities are that it is broken down 
into the two component parts, a fatty acid and glycerine. 
Acrolein is also formed when the fat is overheated. 
The fumes which irritate the eyes and the nasal passages 
when standing near frying fat are due to the acrolein. 
Starches subjected to the heated fat are undoubtedly more 
or less saturated with it, thus delaying their digestion until 
the fat has been digested. Fats are attacked only by the 
bile and pancreatice juices, hence the starches are unduly 
delayed in their digestion when saturated with fat. Pro- 
tein is hardened and made less digestible by the high tem- 
peratures, hence foods cooked in frying fat are made less 
digestible both by the change which takes place in the fats 
and in the foods. 

« 

Sauteing is cooking in a small quantity of fat. Foods 
prepared in this way are considered even less digestible than 



THE ART OP PREPARING FOODS 7 

when fried. This method is frequently called frying, 
though improperly so. 

Braising is a combination of stewing and baking. 

Fricdsseeing is a combination of sauteing and stewing. 

Ftreless Cooking is a combination of boiling and cooking 
by conservation of heat. This is accomplished by insulated 
receptacles, which are so constructed as to prevent the radia- 
tion of heat. Foods are first brought to the boiling point 
and then placed in the insulated receptacle. The remainder 
of the cooking is accomplished by the heat which is retained, 
because of the non-conducting substances surrounding the 
receptacle. 

HOW TO MEASURE 

Exact proportions or correct measuring is as essential to 
good cooking as to the work of the chemist. Indeed the cook 
is dealing with chemical combinations as truly as is the 
pharmacist or chemist. 

The following articles are necessary for measuring : half 
pint measuring cup divided into fourths and thirds, a table- 
spoon and case knife. Exact measurements call for level 
measurements. 

The tablespoon and teaspoon should be the regulation 
size. Sets of measuring spoons may be bought at most hard- 
ware stores and at stores where kitchen furnishings are kept. 
To measure a cupful, fill to a little more than the brim by 
placing materials into the cup with a spoon, never dragging 
the cup through diy materials. With the cutting edge of 
the knife brush off all materials which are piled above the 
brim. Do not shake the cup to level the materials. For 
measuring liquids fill just to the brim. 

To measure a tablespoonful, fill the spoon rounding or 
heaping full and with the cutting edge of the knife brush 
off all that extends above the edge of the spoon. If a half 

(2) 



8 THE NEW COOKERY 

tablespoon is desired, divide the contents of the spoon 
lengthwise and push off one half. If a fourth is desired, 
divide the remaining half crosswise of the spoon and push 
off the portion not desired. If one-eighth is desired, divide 
the remaining one-fourth crosswise and push off the un- 
desired portion. If one-third of a spoonful is desired, di- 
vide the contents of the spoon crosswise into thirds, pushing 
off the undesired portion. The teaspoon is measured in the 
same way. 

To measure spoonfuls of liquid dip the spoon into the 
liquid. 

To measure butter or other solid fats, pack solidly into 
the measure and level off with the knife the same as for dry 
materials. 

It may sometimes be necessary to vary the constituents 
somewhat owing to the variation in the quality of the ma- 
terials. Recipes in which flour plays an important part are 
necessarily only guides, as different qualities or varieties of 
flour require different amounts of liquid. A recipe in 
which eggs form a chief constituent may also be varied ac- 
cording to the size of the eggs. Materials which pack, such 
as flour, powdered sugar, com meal, etc., should be sifted or 
stirred before measuring. 

HOW TO COMBINE INGREDIENTS 

Food materials are mixed by one of three methods; 
stirring, beating or folding. 

Stirring is accomplished by a rotary motion of the arm. 

Beating is a rapid rotary movement of the forearm by 
which the ingredients are turned over and over, the ladle or 
spoon touching the bottom of the utensil at the end of each 
stroke made by the hand. This movement is for the pur- 
pose of incorporating air. 



THE ART OP PREPARING FOODS 9 

Folding is accomplished by means of a spoon or an egg 
whip. The spoon or whip is first put down vertically 
throtrgh the materials (this process is sometimes known as 
cutting), then is brought up again through the materials, 
freed by gently shaking and then put down again, the 
whole process being repeated several times, or until the 
materials are well blended. This method is used where it is 
desirable to prevent the escape of air previously incor- 
porated by beating. 



CHAPTER II 

BEVERAGES 

A BEVERAGE is a flavored drink, the chief constituent of 
which is water. 

Since the body requires from four to five pints of water 
daily, a beverage is a wholesome article providing it contains 
no deleterious substances. 

Unfortunately our common beverages, tea, coffee and 
chocolate each contain a stimulant which affects both the 
nervous system and the heart. 

They also contain tannin, an astringent which retards di- 
gestion. Hence these beverages have no part in a whole- 
some dietary. 

Fruit juices in various combinations, cereal coffees, 
Kaffir tea, sassafras tea, etc., give delightful flavors and 
form refreshing drinks. 

Milk preparations represent the more nourishing of the 
beverages. 

MINUTE BREW 

2 tablespoons Minute Brew 1 pint boiling water 

Tie the Minute Brew loosely in a piece of cheese cloth, 
or if preferred it may be used without being enclosed. Pour 
the boiling water over it and let boil one minute. Serve 
with cream and sugar as desired. 

CEREAL COFFEE 

% cup cereal coffee 1 pint water 

Tie the dry cereal coffee loosely in a cheese cloth bag or 
place in a percolater inside of a coffee pot. Boil for 20 
minutes and serve hot with cream and sugar as desired. 

10 



BEVERAGES 11 

KAFFIR TEA 

1 teaspoon Kaffir tea 1 cup water 

Place the dry tea in a small strainer and pour the boiling 
water over it. 

It is important that the water should be freshly boiled, 
as water which has been cooked for some time has a very 
insipid taste. Serve with cream and sugar as desired or 
with a slice of lemon. 

SANITAS COCOA 

2 cups cream i/^ cup Health Koko 
4 cups milk 2 cups water 

Mix the cocoa with l^ cup water. Cook until thick and 
smooth, then add the remaining liquids and let come to the 
scalding point. Milk may be substituted for the cream. 

YOGURT BUTTERMILK 

Heat one pint of skimmed milk to boiling and continue 
boiling for 5 to 10 minutes. Cover with a clean towel and 
cool to 110° to 115° F. Dissolve two to three Yogurt tablets 
in a little of the warm milk and add to the boiled milk. Set 
in a warm place (a little warmer than for bread), covered 
for 10 to 20 hours, or until it begins to coagulate. In the 
winter time it may be necessary to set in a pan of warm 
water, 110° to 115° F., and cover. Renew the water every 
hour or so. When coagulated, set in refrigerator. 

The next day sterilize another pint of skimmed milk and 
cool to 110° to 115° F. Then add ^4 cup of the previous 
batch, first having beaten it with an egg beater to break up 
the curd. Set in a warm place 5 to 10 hours, or until 
coagulated, and put in the refrigerator. Beat just before 
serving. Repeat each day, using some of the previous day's 



12 THE NEW COOKERY 

batch as a starter. As the Yogurt grows older and more 
acid, use a little less of the starter. As it grows older it will 
also take less time to start it. It takes two or three 
days before a pleasant flavor is developed. Serve with ^4 
cream if desired. 

The fireless cooker and the thermos bottle lend them- 
selves admirably to the making of yogurt. 

When the fireless cooker is used, it is important that the 
entire space in the cooking utensil should be filled. If the 
starter is not sufficient to fill the cooker pail, place it in a 
pudding dish and surround with warm water about the tem- 
perature of the milk. Let it stand 12 to 20 hours. Even 
though it should be somewhat wheyed, it is still valuable 
as a starter. The succeeding batches of milk will take much 
less time for the souring than the first one. 

When using the thermos bottle, see that it is well cleaned. 
Wash in hot soapsuds or some sal-soda dissolved in hot 
water. Fill with hot but not boiling water and let stand 
stoppered until ready to fill with the milk. Leave about 
one-half inch space between the milk and the stopper. Pre- 
pare just the same as described above, except that the milk 
should be cooled only to 120°. Place it in a thermos bottle 
and let stand 12 to 20 hours. Wide variations in the time 
must necessarily be given, as the age of the tablets affects 
the activity of the germs which bring about the souring of 
the milk. If the milk is not coagulated at the end of the 
minimum time given, recover the milk and let stand a few 
hours longer. The first batch or starter requires consider- 
able patience, but the succeeding batches are easily co- 
agulated. It is advisable to make a new starter from the 
tablets every two or three weeks. 

Kumyss, kefir and other sour milk preparations are 
made similarly, though specific directions usually come with 
the packages. 



BEVERAGES 13 

ORANGE YOGURT 

For each glass of the beverage, use l^ glass of yogurt 
buttermilk, the juice of one orange and one teaspoonful of 
sugar. Stir the ingredients together and chill. If yogurt 
* buttermilk is unobtainable, kumyss or clabbered milk beaten 
smooth with an egg-beater, or other sour milk preparations, 
will suffice. 

FRUIT BEVERAGE 

Juice of 3 oranges I/2 to % cup of sugar 

Juice of 3 lemons 1 cup strawberry or other 

1 quart water fruit juice 

Extract the juice of the orange and the lemon with the 
drill; strain through a cheese cloth; add to it the sugar, 
water, and the other fruit juices ; set on ice to chill. The 
amount of sugar used must vary according to the amount of 
sugar used in the canned fruit juices. 

GOLDEN NECTAR 

V/2 cups orange juice 2/3 cup sugar 

11/4 cups pineapple juice % cup lemon juice 

1 to 2 cups water 

Strain the orange and the lemon juices, and add to the 
pineapple juice. (The canned pineapple is used in this 
recipe.) Then add the sugar and water. Stir and set on the 
ice until chilled. 

MINT JULEP 

2 cups water 6 mint sprigs 

% cup sugar % cup strawberry juice 

1 cup boiling water 14 cup raspberry juice 

Juice of 4 lemons 



14 THE NEW COOKERY 

Boil sugar and water 20 minutes, crush mint, and pour 
over it the one cup of boiling water. (If fresh mint is not 
obtainable, use two tablespoons of the dried spearmint.) 
Let it stand five to ten minutes, strain, and pour into the 
syrup. To this add the strawberry, raspberry and lemon ^ 
juice. Serve cold. 

EASPBEREY NECTAE 

% cup lemon juice 1% cup* water 

4 tablespoons sugar 1 cup raspberry juice 

Make a lemonade of the lemon juice, sugar and water, 
then add the raspberry (red preferred) juice. Chill. 

PEUIT PUNCH 

2 cups strawberry juice 1 cup strong Kaffir tea 

Juice of 5 oranges 2 cups sugar 

Juice of 5 lemons 1 quart of water 

1 can grated pineapple 1 quart carbonated soda water 

Make a syrup by boiling the water and sugar together 
for 10 minutes. Prepare the tea Jbj using 4 times .the 
quantity of Kaffir tea called for in that recipe. Add the 
fruit juices, tea and the pineapple. Let stand for one-half 
hour or more, then strain first through a strainer and then 
through cheese cloth. Chill and add the carbonated water. 
ApoUinaris may be used, if more convenient. If desired a 
cup of Maraschino cherries may be added. Place a block 
of ice in the punch bowl and pour the chilled beverage over 
it. This quantity will serve 60 people. 



CHAPTER III 

CEREALS 

CEREALS are seeds of certain of the grass family. They 
are very compact and are veritable storehouses of 
nourishment, having on an average about 85% nutritive 
value. 

On account of their compactness it is often advantageous 
to grind or crush them, thus also increasing the variety in 
cereal products. 

The cooking of cereals is for two purposes, viz., the 
softening of the cellulose and the changing of the starch 
from an insoluble to a soluble form. The latter is accom- 
plished in a comparatively short time, but the thorough 
softening of the cellulose ofttimes requires several hours' 
cooking, the time varying with the size of the grain or the 
fineness of the grinding. 

A double boiler is preferable to the sauce pan or kettle 
for the cooking, as it is a safeguard against burning and also 
cooks the grain without ebullition, which prevents the pas- 
tiness so often met with in mushes. 

A fireless cooker is ideal for the cooking of this class of 
foods. 

To obtain the best results, definite proportions of liquids 
and cereals must be used. 

The water should be boiling when the cereal is intro- 
duced and should be allowed to boil five to ten minutes or 
until the grain is thickened or set. Then place in another 
vessel containing boiling water, or better still, use a double 
boiler. 

15 



16 THE NEW COOKERY 

Whole or nearly whole grains should not be stirred while 
cooking. They may be lifted occasionally with the aid of a 
fork, care being taken not to crush the grains. 

Fortunately it is now possible to obtain on the market 
various breakfast cereals ready for serving, which are more 
thoroughly cooked than the housewife can possibly do. 

In some cases where cellulose plays an important part in 
the dietary, it is advantageous to serve the grain less thor- 
oughly cooked. 

BOILED RICE 

1 cup rice 3 quarts boiling water 

3 teaspoons salt 

Pick over the rice grains and wash thoroughly by pour- 
ing boiling water over it and rinsing in several cold waters. 
Add slowly to the boiling salted water. Boil actively for 
about 20 minutes or until the grains are teujfier. As soon 
as the grains are soft turn the rice into a coarse strainer or 
colander, and drain off the liquid ; then return to the kettle. 
Place in an open oven or on the back of the range uncovered 
and let it remain 5 minutes or until the kernels are dry and 
distinct. If necessary to stir the rice use a fork and lift 
the grains so as to prevent breaking the kernels. 

BOILED RICE (JAPANESE METHOD) 

1 cup rice * 5 cups boiling water 

ll^ teaspoons salt 

Wash the rice thoroughly by pouring boiling water over 
it and rinsing in several pans of cold water. To the actively 
boiling water add the salt and the washed rice ; cover and 
set on the back of the stove where it will boil slowly for 15 
minutes, then place in the oven, still covered, another 15 
minutes. At the end of this time each gram should be soft 
and tender, yet whole and distinct. 



CEREALS 17 

STEAMED OR CREAMED RICE 

1 cup rice I14 cups milk 

1 cup water y^ cup cream 

1 teaspoon salt 

Wash the rice thoroughly and put to cook in the boiling 
water. Boil five minutes, then set in the double boiler and 
cook until the water is mostly absorbed. Heat the milk 
and cream in the double boiler and add to the rice. Add salt 
and finish cooking in the double boiler, which will require 
about one hour. If cream is not convenient use an addi- 
tional one-half cup of milk and one tablespoonful of butter. 

Do not stir except to lift gently once or twice with a fork. 

PLAIN STEAMED RICE 

1 cup rice 1 teaspoon salt 

2 to 214 cups boiling water 

Pick the rice over carefully, wash and add slowly to the 
boiling salted water. Set the dish containing the rice in a 
steamer or in a colander over boiling water. Cook until the 
rice is soft, which will require about one hour. 

TURKISH PILAF 

% cup washed rice 1 cup brown stock 

% cup strained tomatoes 3 tablespoons butter 

Add tomatoes to the stock, and heat to the boiling point. 
Add rice and steam until the rice is soft. Stir in the butter 
with a fork, and keep uncovered so that steam may escape. 
Serve as a vegetable or as an accompaniment to an entree. 

BROWN STOCK 

2/3 teaspoon Savora 1 cup boiling water 

1 teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the Savora in the boiling water. Add the salt. 



18 THE NEW COOKERY 

SAVORY RICE 

1 cup rice 1 cup chopped celery 

1 quart 6an tomatoes ^ cup chopped olives, ripe 

2 teaspoons salt 1 tablespoon grated onion 

Put the tomatoes with the celery and salt on to cook. 
Let boil for ten minutes, then add the rice, previously well 
washed, and the other ingredients, and boil for five minutes. 
Then set in a double boiler and cook for fifty minutes, or 
until the grains are perfectly soft and tender, yet whole. 

ROLLED OATS 

1 cup Rolled Oats 1 teaspoon salt 

3 cups boiling water 

Look the oats over carefully and add to the boiling salted 
water. Let boil 10 minutes, stirring frequently, then put to 
cook in a double boiler for three to four hours. Do not stir 
while cooking in the double boiler, except to lift the oats 
gently once or twice with a fork. 

SCOTCH BRAN BROSB 

1 cup Rolled Oats 2^/2 cups water 

1 cup sterilized bran 1 teaspoon salt 

Heat the water to boiling. Add the salt, bran and the 
rolled oats. Let boil ten minutes. This dish is intended for 
corrective measures rather than for nutritive purposes. 

TO STERILIZE BRAN 

Look over and remove foreign substances from bran and 
place in a rather shallow pan in a moderate oven. Place a 
pan of hot water in the oven to prevent burning. Bake a 
half hour, stirring the bran to prevent scorching. 



CEREALS 19 

HULLED WHEAT 

1 cup hulled wheat 3 cups water 

1 teaspoon salt 

Look over the wheat carefully, wash and drain and put 
to soak in the cold water. Let soak for eight or ten hours, 
add the salt and let come to the boiling point. Boil hard 
for ten minutes in an uncovered dish. Finish cooking in 
a double boiler for six to eight hours. 

CREAM OF WHEAT 

6 cups boiling water li/^ teaspoons salt 

1 cup Cream of Wheat 

Boil ten minutes, stirring constantly, and cook over boil- 
ing water one hour or more. 

FARINA 

1 quart water 1 teaspoon salt 

V2 <^^P farina % cup milk or cold water 

Heat the water to boiling in the inner portion of a double 
boiler ; add the salt ; moisten the farina with the milk, tak- 
ing care to stir it constantly until set or thickened. Let boil 
5 minutes, then set in the outer boiler and cook one hour or 
more. The flavor and nutritive value may be increased by 
making the liquid one-half milk. 

PEARL BARLEY WITH DATES 

1 cup pearled barley 1 teaspoon salt 

5 cups water 1 cup seeded dates 

Carefully look over and wash the barley, then put on to 
cook in boiling water. Let boil for ten minutes, and set 
in a double boiler. Continue cooking for three to four hours. 



20 THE NEW COOKERY 

Wash dates in cold water, remove seeds, measure, then 
carefully cleanse in hot water. Cut the dates in small 
pieces and add to the barley about ten minutes before 
serving. 

The dates may be omitted if desired. 

GRAHAM MUSH WITH DATES 

1 cup graham flour 1 cup dates 

3 cups water 1 teaspoon salt 

Have the water actively boiling; add the salt and stir 
in the dry flour, sifting it in quite rapidly between the 
fingers. A batter whip or a long handled spoon should be 
used for stirring. Cook at least one hour. Cleanse the 
dates, remove the stones and cut each date into about four 
pieces. Add the dates just before the mush is finished 
cooking. 

GOOD- HEALTH BREAKFAST FOOD 

1 cup Good Health Break- 3 cups water 
fast Food (Brose) 1 teaspoon salt 

Salt the water and bring to the boiling point. Add the 
cereal and cook over the flame 12 minutes. 

GLUTEN MUSH 

1 1/3 cups 20% gluten meal 1 quart water 

1 teaspoon salt 

Heat the water to boiling, add the salt and stir in 
quickly and lightly the gluten meal. Let cook a few 
minutes over the fire and serve. 

CREAMED GLUTEN MUSH 

1% pints milk 1 cup 20% gluten meal 

% pint cream 1 teaspoon salt 

Prepare the same as for gluten mush. 



CKBEALS .^1 

HOMINY GRITS 

1 cup granulated hominy 4 cups water 

11/2 teaspoons salt 

Heat the water to boiling. Add the salt and stir in the 
hominy a little at a time, stirring constantly. Let cook over 
the flame until thickened, then set in a double boiler and 
cook three to four hours. 

CEEAMED HOMINY 

1 quart hominy y^ cup milk 

14 cup cream 1 tablespoon butter 

1/2 teaspoon salt 

Heat the hominy. Add the milk, cream, butter and 
lastly the salt. Cook together five minutes and serve. If 
desired, milk only may be used, in which case add an addi- 
tional tablespoonful of butter. This may be served as a 
vegetable if desired. 

CORNMEAL MUSH 

1 cup commeal 1 cup cold water 

1 teaspoon salt 2i/^ cups boiling water 

Moisten the cornmeal with the cold water and turn im- 
mediately into the actively boiling salted water. Stir con- 
stantly until the mixture is set or thickened and cook in a 
double boiler 3 to 4 hours. If the mush is to be used for 
commeal cutlets or baked mush, sift one tablespoon of flour 
into the commeal before adding the water. 

CORNMEAL CUTLETS 

Turn cornmeal mush into bread tins previously wet with 
cold water ; when cold slice. Beat one or two eggs slightly, 
add one tablespoon water or milk to each egg, also % tea- 



22 THE NEW COOKERY 

spoon salt. Dip the sliced mush into the bread crumbs, then 
into the egg mixture, and then back into the bread cfUmbs 
again. Place in a buttered pan and bake in a quick oven 
until a rich brown. Serve with butter or maple syrup. 

BAKED MUSH 

Turn commeal mush into bread tins. Wben cold slice 
into one-half inch slices. Place in buttered pans and 
bake until nicely browned. The slices may be brushed with 
cream or milk during the baking, which facilitates the 
browning. 

GBANOLA FRUIT MUSH 

1 pint water i^ cup raisins 

1 pint granola 

Clean and stem the raisins, wash and add to the hot 
water. Bring to the boiling point and cook a few minutes 
to soften the raisins. Add the Granola and cook two to 
four minutes. 

BRAN AND GRANOLA MUSH 

1 cup sterilized bran 3 cups water 

1 cup granola . i/^ teaspoon salt 

Mix the bran, granola and salt. Stir into the boiling 
water and cook for a few minutes directly over the flame. 



CHAPTEE IV 

FERMENTED BREADS 

BREAD is a cereal product which has been used almost 
from time immemorial. The first form was undoubt- 
edly a flat cake made from pounded grain mixed with water. 

Later came the shortened cake and still later the fer- 
mented loaf. 

Bread is usually made from wheat, but rye or corn may 
be used, though they need to be mixed with wheat flour to 
give the best results. 

Bread flour may be white, whole wheat or entire wheat 
and graham, according to the process of milling used. Gra- 
ham consists of the entire kernel and differs from the whole 
wheat in that it contains all of the bran. The whole wheat 
flour is made from wheat from which the outer part of the 
bran has been removed. White flour is made from that 
portion of the wheat kernel which lies beneath the bran. 

For most people the whole wheat and graham breads are 
more wholesome, as the bran is valuable for the bulk which 
it produces. 

Breads are of two classes, viz., the fermented and un- 
fermented. 

Unfermented bread is made light by the action of the 
ferment yeast, a microscopic plant which grows and multi- 
plies very rapidly under favorable conditions. 

The conditions necessary for its growth are warmth, 
moisture and food. 

The yeast plant was originally a ''wild" yeast such as 
that which accompanies almost every particle of dust and 

23 



24 THE NEW COOKERY 

which operates in the spoiling of fruits and other foods. 
Undoubtedly the first leavened bread was made from this 
variety of yeast. 

The growing of yeast for bread making has become of 
sufficient importance commercially that it is now cultivated 
in much the same way that other plants are grown for the 
market. Great care is taken not to allow the cultures to 
become contaminated. 

It is generally put upon the market in the form of dried 
cakes or of compressed cakes. 

The compressed cakes are moist and spoil quickly. They 
contain the yeast plant in an active growing condition, 
while the dried cakes contain the yeast chiefly in the form 
of spores and must be nursed back, as it were, into the 
growing state by supplying the conditions necessary for 
growth, namely the moisture, warmth and food, hence it 
is necessary when using the dried yeast cakes to soak them 
and start the bread in the form of sponge. 

Compressed yeast acts more quickly and can be made 
up into dough instead of the sponge. 

The yeast plant grows best at a temperature of about 
98° F., hence it is important that all the materials 
should be warmed. The flour may be warmed by setting in 
an open oven for a half hour or more and stirring occasion- 
ally. 

The food which yeast likes best is sugar produced from 
the starch of the flour by the action of the diastase, the 
natural ferment which digests starch in the plant world. 
The diastase begins to act when moisture and warmth are 
present. 

Bread is best made from spring wheat flour, as it con- 
tains more gluten than the winter wheat. The gluten gives 
firmness and elasticity to the loaf. 

When the yeast feeds upon the sugar formed from the 



FERMENTED BREADS 25 

starch, it breaks it down into carbon dioxide gas and alcohol. 
The carbon dioxide gas produces the lightness of the bread 
and is therefore desirable. The gluten of the flour 
envelops the bubbles of carbon dioxide, making a porous 
mass. The first kneading is for the purpose of distributing 
the yeast through the dough. The later kneadings are for 
the purpose of distributing the bubbles of carbon dioxide 
equally through the mass. The alcohol, being volatile, is 
driven off in the baking of the bread. 

The baking is chiefly for three purposes, first, the kill- 
ing of the yeast plant; secondly, the changing of the starch 
from an insoluble to a soluble form; third, the expansion 
of the gas, carbon dioxide, thus increasing the lightness of 
the loaf. 

WHITE BREAD 

2 cups potato water or milk 2 teaspoons salt 

2 teaspoons sugar l^ cake compressed yeast 

About 2 quarts flour 14 ^^P warm water 

Dissolve the yeast in the warm water. To prepare 
the potato water, peel two medium sized potatoes and 
put to cook in one pint boiling water. When tender 
rub through a colander and add sufficient water to make 
two cups liquid. Cool the liquid to lukewarm, add the 
salt, sugar and the dissolved yeast. Warm the flour slightly 
in the oven and add gradually to the liquid. Stir in suf- 
ficient flour to knead well, taking care not to have a stiff 
dough. Stand in a warm place and let rise about one and 
a half hours. When light, knead down and let rise again 
about an hour. Knead lightly and form into loaves. Let 
rise in the pan about three-fourths of an hour, or until light 
again. Then bake about forty-five minutes. When done 
remove from the pans and cool. This makes two loaves. 



26 THE NEW COOKERY 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD 

2 cups potato water or milk About 5 cups white flour 

2 teaspoons sugar 2 teaspoons salt 

3 cups whole wheat flour i^ cake compressed yeast 

14, cup warm water 
Follow the directions for making white bread. 

GRAHAM BREAD 

2^/2 cups milk and water About 2 quarts whole wheat 

(equal parts) flour 

2 tablespoons malt honey or 2 teaspoons salt 
molasses ^2 yeast cake 

1% cups sterilized bran ^ cup warm water 

Soak the yeast in the warm water. Scald the milk and 
cool to lukewarm. Potato water may be used instead of the 
milk and water. Add water, the molasses and salt, then 
the softened yeast. Mix the flour and bran together and 
stir into the liquids. Knead thoroughly and put to rise in a 
warm place. When light, mold into a loaf. Let rise again 
and when light, bake in a hot oven about one hour. De- 
crease the heat somewhat during the latter part of the 
baking. This makes 3 small or 2 large loaves. 

Graham flour may be used instead of the whole wheat, 
in which case less bran will be needed. 

FRUIT BREAD 

21/4 cups potato water 2 tablespoons butter 

or milk 1 pound raisins' 

3 teaspoons salt V^ yeast cake 

1 tablespoon sugar About two quarts flour 

14 cup warm water 
Put the yeast to soak in the one-fourth cup of warm 



FERMENTED BREADS 27 

water and let dissolve. Prepare the potato water by cook- 
ing two medinm sized potatoes in a little more than a 
pint of water. Press through a colander and measure. 
Cool to lukewarm. Add the salt, sugar, dissolved yeast, 
melted butter and raisins. Warm the flour slightly in the 
oven and add gradually to the liquid. Stir in gradually 
enough flour to knead well, taking care not to have a stiff 
dough. Let stand in a warm place for one and one-half 
hours or until light. Knead down and let rise again an 
hour or more. Enead lightly and form into loaves. Let 
rise in the pans about three-fourths of an hour or until 
light, then bake about forty-flve minutes. When done re- 
move from the pans and cool. This recipe makes two large 
or three small loaves. If potato water is not convenient 
the same amount of water and milk in equal quantities may 
be substituted. 

CORN BREAD 

1 cup com meal 2 teaspoons salt 

About 5 cups white flour 2 tablespoons butter 

1 tablespoon sugar ly^ cups potato water 

% yeast cake dissolved in 14 cnp warm water 

Prepare and bake this recipe the same as for fruit bread, 
substituting com meal instead of the raisins. 

SOFT GRAHAM BREAD 

11/^ quarts graham flour 14 cup molasses or 

1 pint white flour I/2 cup brown sugar and y^ 

2 teaspoons salt cup malt honey 

1 cake compressed yeast 2 tablespoons melted butter 

About 3 cups warm water 

Mix the ingredients in the order given, adding sufiScient 
warm water to make a soft dough. Beat the dough thor- 



28 THE NEW COOKERY 

oughly and set in a warm place for about three hours, or 
until it is quite light. Then beat down again and turn it 
into bread pans, filling them half full. When light again, 
or when the bread has risen to about three-fourths the 
height of the pan, put to bake in a moderate oven and bake 
from three-quarters of an hour to an hour. Graham bread 
must not be allowed to rise as much as white bread. 

MILK BREAD 

Scalded milk 1% tablespoons butter 

% cake compressed yeast V2 tablespoon salt 
1/2 tablespoon sugar II/2 quarts sifted flour 

Put into a pint measure the butter, salt and I/2 cup of 
boiling water. Fill it up with scalded milk. Let cool until 
lukewarm. Stir and pour into a bread mixer, keeping 
back just enough of the liquid to thoroughly dissolve the 
yeast. Add the dissolved yeast to the other liquids in the 
bread mixer and lastly the sifted flour, slightly warmed. 
Knead five minutes in the mixer. Set away in a warm 
place for one and one-half hours or until the dough is 
light. Knead again for another five minutes. Set away in 
a warm place for another hour or more until well risen 
again. Turn out upon a molding board and shape into 
loaves. Place in buttered pans and set away in a warm 
place until light. Bake in a hot oven three-fourths of an 
hour. 

SALT RISING BREAD 

% cup com meal 2^^ cups flour 

5/8 cup scalded milk 2 tablespoons butter 

1/^ teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon sugar 

2 cups milk and water 1 teaspoon salt 

Flour to make a stiff dough 

Scald the meal and the salt with the 5/8 cup of milk and 



FERMENTED BREADS 2\) 

let stand in a warm place over night. In the morning set 
the bowl in water, just as warm as you can bear the hand 
in. During the whole process keep the bread at this tem- 
perature ; when this is light add it to the remainder of the 
milk (scalded) and water which has been allowed to cool. 
Add butter, sugar, salt and flour, and beat this batter thor- 
oughly. Set in warm water to rise ; when light add flour 
to make a stiff dough, knead well, put in pans and when 
light, bake. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

2 cups scalded milk 1^ teaspoons salt 

3 tablespoons butter 1 yeast cake dissolved in 
2 to 3 teaspoons sugar i^ cup lukewarm water 

About 5y2 cups flour 

To the hot milk add the butter, sugar and salt. Cool to 
lukewarm and add the dissolved yeast cake and three cups 
of the flour. Beat thoroughly. Cover and let rise until 
light. Cut down and add sufficient flour to knead (about 
214 cups). Let rise again. Toss on slightly floured board. 
Knead and roll out to one-third inch in thickness. Cut with 
a large biscuit cutter first dipped in flour. Dip the handle 
of the knife in the flour and with it make a crease through 
the middle of each piece. Brush one-half of each piece with 
melted butter, fold and press edges together. Arrange 
about one inch apart in buttered pans. Cover, let rise and 
bake in a hot oven twelve to fifteen minutes. 

BUNS 

1 cup milk 1/4 teaspoon salt 

3/8 cup sugar 1/4 yeast cake 

1 egg 1/4 cup warm water 

2 cups flour 

Make a sponge. Beat thoroughly, and when light, add 



30 THE NEW COOKERY 

flour to make a soft dough, but one which will not stick to 
the board. Knead this and let it rise until it doubles its 
former bulk, then add 

y^ cup butter (softened) % teaspoon cinnamon and 
% cup currants nutmeg 

Let rise until light, then shape into small round cakes, 
and place them in a buttered pan; when light, bake in a 
moderate oven 40 minutes. When the cakes have baked for 
15 minutes, glaze with a mixture of milk and sugar (1 table- 
spoonful sugar, 14 cup milk), and repeat this every 5 
minutes. 

If desired the currants and spices may be omitted. 

CINNAMON BUNS 

Use the bun dough and roll 14 iiich thick. Spread with 
V2 cup butter (softened) 2 tablespoons cinnamon 

1 cup currants 1 cup brown sugar 

Roll the dough as in making jelly roll, and cut into 
slices one inch thick. Place in well-greased pans, with cut 
surfaces up. When very light, bake in a moderate oven 45 
minutes." If the buns are desired quite moist brush them 
over after 15 minutes baking with New Orleans molasses. 
Repeat this every 10 minutes until finished baking. The 
baking must necessarily be somewhat slower after the mo- 
lasses is added, in order to prevent burning. 

NUT BUNS 

Make a sponge of the following: 

1/2 cup milk 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 teaspoon salt % cake compressed yeast 

1 cup white flour 2 tablespoons warm water 

Scald the milk, cool to lukewarm. Dissolve the yeast in 



FERMENTED BREADS 31 

the warm water. To the warm milk add the salt, sugar, 
dissolved yeast cake and the flour. Set in a warm place 
and let rise an hour or more, or until light and foamy, then 
add the 2 tablespoons melted butter, 1 egg, ^ cup chopped 
nuts and about 1^^ cups flour. Knead thoroughly. Let 
rise about one and a half hours, or until light. Shape into 
buns. Beat an egg until well blended, and add 2 table- 
spoons milk or water. Brush the tops of the buns with the 
egg and sprinkle with sugar and chopped nuts. Let rise 
again until light and bake in a quick oven. 

GERMAN POTATO CAKE 

Make a sponge of the following : 
V2 cup milk 1/^ cake compressed yeast 

y^ cup warm water I14 cups flour 

Dissolve the yeast cake in the warm water. Scald 
the milk and cool to lukewarm, add the dissolved yeast 
cake and stir in the flour. Put to rise in a warm place for 
30 minutes, then add the following: 

% teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons flavoring or 

2 beaten eggs 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

iy2 cups milk iy2 cups sugar 

1/2 cup mashed potato % cup chopped nuts 

1/4 pound butter About 7% cups flour 

Mix the above ingredients together and knead thor- 
oughly. Let rise over night. Form into cakes or loaves 
of about one pound each. Brush the top with, milk and 
sprinkle with a sugar and butter mixture, for which use 

% pound butter (y^ cup) 1 cup granulated sugar 

y^ cup flour 

Rub these together and drop by bits upon the cake. Let 
rise until light and bake in a moderately hot oven 30 to 45 



32 THE NEW COOKERY 

minutes, or until a light brown. If desired, chopped al- 
monds or English walnuts may be added to the butter and 
sugar mixture and sprinkled on top of the cake. 

The sam^ dough may be rolled thin, spread with butter 
and sprinkled with sugar and cinnamon or with Malt Honey 
and currants and rolled like a jelly roll, then cut into two- 
inch pieces as for cinnamon rolls. Let rise on a buttered 
pan and bake in a hot oven about 20 minutes. 



CHAPTER V 

UNFERMENTED BREADS 

UNFERMENTED BREADS are made light by the process of 
aeration, that is the incorporation of air or gas into the 
mixture by means of kneading and beating ; or by chemicals. 

Tke lightness of aerated breads depends upon the cold- 
ness of the materials, the dexterity with which the ingredi- 
ents are put together, the quality of the materials, the 
heat of the irons and ovens, and the filling of the irons. 
The gem irons are better for aerated products than tins. 
Since all gases expand when heated, it is necessary that 
the materials be as cold as possible. The materials should 
be put together quickly and lightly and must be beaten — 
not stirred. The ovens must be only moderately hot. The 
gem irons must be filled to the very brim, and must be 
warmed before filling. 

The chemicals used always consist of the combination 
of baking soda (sodium bicarbonate) and an acid. The 
acid may be cream of tartar, tartaric acid, an acid phos- 
phate, lactic acid of sour milk, hydrochloric acid, the acids 
of fruits, or alum compounds. Baking powders are always 
combinations of soda and an acid and are of three classes ; 
namely, cream of tartar powder, acid phosphate powder, 
and alum powder. The alum powders are cheap powders 
and are unwholesome. The result of the combining of the 
soda with the acid is the formation of carbon dioxide gas 
and a salt, the kind of salt depending upon the acid used. 
For instance, soda and cream of tartar produce Rochelle 

33 



34 THE NEW COOKERY 

salts, soda and an acid phosphate produce sodium neutral 
phosphate, while soda and hydrochloric acid produce sodium 
chloride, common table salt. 

On account of the salts produced as the result of the 
combination of chemicals in baking powders, they are not 
to be recommended to those seeking the purest and best in 
foods. 

The salt produced by the combination of soda and 
hydrochloric acid is undoubtedly the least objectionable of 
any of the salts produced, but great care must be exercised 
in the use of the hydrochloric acid, as uncombined it is a 
poison. On account of the degree of concentration, it is 
capable of removing the skin or mucus lining with which it 
comes in contact, hence its use must never be entrusted to 
ignorant or careless persons. It is very important that the 
measurements of both soda and hydrochloric acid shall be 
exact in order that they may be perfectly neutralized. It 
is advisable when using hydrochloric acid to have a minim 
glass, which can be purchased for a small sum at any drug- 
store. One perfectly level teaspoon of soda is neutralized 
by 80 minims of hydrochloric acid. The hydrochloric acid 
must be chemically pure (marked C. P.) and the concen- 
trated form. One teaspoon of soda and 80 minims of 
hydrochloric acid are equivalent to 4 level teaspoons of 
baking powder. 

The equivalent in baking powder is given in each recipe 
calling for soda and hydrochloric acid, as there may be oc- 
casions when the housewife will find it necessary to en- 
trust the preparation of the meals to inexperienced persons, 
but whenever possible it is recommended that the hydro- 
chloric acid and soda be used in place of baking powder. 

For most recipes % teaspoon soda and 40 minims hydro- 
chloric acid are sufficient to use with one cup of flour. 



UNPEEMENTED BREADS 35 

AERATED WHOLE WHEAT PUFFS 

1 egg 1% cups white flour 

% cup thin cream 2/3 cup whole wheat flour 

1 cup milk 2 teaspoons salt 

Beat the egg yolk until light and lemon colored ; add the 
milk, cream, and salt ; sift the flour and stir in a little at a 
time, beating vigorously while so doing ; continue the beat- 
ing for from 5 to 10 minutes. Turn into hot buttered gem 
irons, filling the irons to the level. Bake in a moderate 
oven about 20 minutes. This recipe may be varied by using 
graham flour instead of whole wheat or by using the white 
flour alone. 

AERATED NUT PUFFS 

1 egg 2/3 cup milk 

1 teaspoon salt 1% cups white flour 

Vs cup cream ^ cup chopped nuts 

Beat the egg slightly, add the milk, cream, and salt. 
Dredge the nuts in a part of the flour and add the re- 
mainder of the flour to the egg and milk. Beat about 5 
minutes or until the batter is light and smooth. Lastly 
fold in the chopped nuts. Bake in hot buttered gem irons, 
taking care to fill the cups to the level. Bake in a moderate 
oven about 20 minutes. 

Currants, raisins or chopped dates may be used instead 
of the nuts. 

CREAM CRISPS 

% cup graham flour 2 teaspoons sugar 

% cup white flour Ys cup thin cream 

% teaspoon salt 

Sift the flour, salt, and sugar together in a bowl ; pour 
the cream into the flour slowly, a few spoonfuls at a time, 



'6(5 THE NEW COOKERY 

mixing each spoonful to a dough with the flour as fast as 
poured in. When all the liquid has been added, gather the 
fragments of dough together. Knead thoroughly for from 
5 to 10 minutes; roll very thin; cut into 2 inch lengths. 
Prick with a fork and bake in a moderate oven. 

CORN PONES 

1 pint com meal 1 teaspoon sugar 

1^ cups boiling water I/2 teaspoon salt 

iy2 tablespoons butter 

Dissolve the sugar and the salt in the water ; work but- 
ter into the cornmeal, then add the boiling water ; cover and 
let stand 10 minutes; shape into oblong cakes 2% inches 
long ; bake in a quick oven 20 to 30 minutes. 

HOE CAKE 

1 pint yellow corn meal 1 pint milk 

1/4 cup sugar 2 tablespoons butter 

14 teaspoon salt 

Mix the dry ingredients and the butter. Heat the milk 
to boiling and pour into the meal, stirring meanwhile. 
Cook directly over the fire until thickened. Drop by spoon- 
fuls on an oiled pan and bake in a hot oven until nicely 
bro^vned. 

BEATEN BISCUITS 

1 quart pastry flour A little more than % cup 

% cup butter (scant) water or milk 

1 teaspoon salt 

Sift the flour and salt together and work in the butter. 
Moisten with sufficient cold water (preferably ice water) to 
form a stiff dough. Toss on a floured board and beat with 
the rolling pin 30 minutes, taking care to fold the dough 



UNFERMENTED BREADS 37 

over ever}'' few seconds, or pass the dough through a beaten 
biscuit machine for 20 minutes, folding each time the dough 
is passed through. Roll to one-third inch in thickness, cut 
into little round cakes with a biscuit cutter, and prick with 
a fork. Place in pie tins or on baking sheets and bake in a 
moderate oven 20 to 30 minutes. 

OATEN CAKES 

2 cups oatmeal y^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup white flour 3 tablespoons butter 

% cup or more of cold water 

Sift the flour, oatmeal and salt together and chop into 
it the butter. Mix with cold water into a stiff dough. 
Ejiead and roll into very thin cakes. Roll out into as round 
a piece as possible, trim and cut circle into quadrants. Bake 
in the toasting oven directly under but not too near the 
flame, for eight to ten minutes, or until nicely browned on 
both sides. This is the Scotch oaten cake which is said to 
have produced the brawn of the Scottish people. 

GOLDEN CORN CAKE 

% cup yellow corn meal 1 tablespoon melted butter 
1^4 cups flour 1 cup milk 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 ^g'g 

% teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon soda 

80 minims hydrochloric acid (C. P.) 

(This amount of soda and hydrochloric acid is equiva- 
lent to 4 teaspoons of baking powder.) 

Sift the dry ingredients together. Beat the ^gg^ add the 
milk and hydrochloric acid; stir in the dry ingredients; 
add the melted butter. Turn into a buttered pan and bake 
in a quick oven 20 to 30 minutes. 



38 THE NEW COOKERY 

If baking powder is used sift with the dry ingredients 
and omit the soda and hydrochloric acid. 

COFFEE CAKE 

% cup sugar Vii teaspoon salt 

V2 c^P iJ^ilk 1 cup flour 

1 egg y2 cup cornstarch 

4 tablespoons melted butter 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 teaspoon soda 
80 minims hydrochloric acid (C. P.) 

(This amount of soda and hydrochloric acid is equiva- 
lent to 4 teaspoons of baking powder.) 

Mix all of the dry ingredients together. Beat the egg 
and add the milk and two-thirds of the dry ingredients; 
then add the melted butter and beat thoroughly. Next 
add the hydrochloric acid and mix quickly. Then add the 
remainder of the dry ingredients and turn into a shallow 
pan and bake in a quick oven. As soon as removed from the 
oven brush the top of the cake with melted butter and 
sprinkle over it two tablespoons of granulated sugar mixed 
with one teaspoon of cinnamon. 

If baking powder is used sift with the dry ingredients 
and omit the acid and the soda. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

1 cup white flour % cup molasses 

1 cup com meal 1% cups sweet milk 

1 cup graham flour 1 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon salt 20 minims hydrochloric 

acid (C. P.) 

Mix dry ingredients. To half of dry ingredients add 
soda and to the other half add molasses and milk, then the 



UNFERMENTED BREADS 39 

hydrochloric acid. Mix thoroughly. Add remaining 
dry ingredients and put to steam in cans for three and one- 
half hours. Dry in oven for a few minutes before serving. 
If baking powder is used omit the hydrochloric acid 
and one-fourth teaspoon of soda and substitute one tea- 
spoon of baking powder. It will still be necessary to use 
three-fourths teaspoon of soda to neutralize the acid of the 
molasses. 

NUT BREAD 

1% cups milk 4 cups flour 

1 egg 1 cup chopped walnut meats 

1 teaspoon salt 1% teaspoons soda 

% cup sugar 120 minims hydrochloric 

acid (C. P.) 

(This amount of soda and hydrochloric acid is equiva- 
lent to 6 teaspoons of baking powder.) 

Beat the egg thoroughly. Add the sugar gradually and 
the hydrochloric acid. Sift the flour, salt and soda together 
and add alternately with the milk to the egg mixture. 
Lastly fold in the chopped walnut meats and turn into two 
buttered bread tins. Bake in a moderate oven forty 
minutes. 

CREAM BISCUIT 

2 cups flour % to 1 cup milk 
2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon soda 

1/^ teaspoon salt 80 minims hydrochloric 

acid (C. P.) 

(This amount of soda and hydrochloric acid is equiva- 
lent to 4 teaspoons baking powder.) 

Mix the flour and salt and work in the butter. Make a 
depression in the center of the dry ingredients, dissolve the 
soda in the milk, add the hydrochloric acid and quickly turn 

(3) 



40 THE NEW COOKERY 

the foaming milk into the dry ingredients. Toss upon a 
floured board and pat or roll out to I/2 i^^ch in thickness. 
Shape with a biscuit cutter, place on a buttered or floured 
pan and bake in a hot oven 12 to 15 minutes. 

If baking powder is used, omit both the soda and the 
hydrochloric acid and proceed as follows : 

Mix the dry ingredients and sift. Work in the butter, 
add the liquids gradually, mixing with a knife to a soft 
dough. Toss on a floured board, shape with a biscuit cutter 
and bake as above directed. 

FRUIT ROLLS OR PINWHEEL BISCUITS 

2 cups flour 2 teaspoons citron finely 
14 teaspoon salt chopped 

2 tablespoons sugar y^ teaspoon cinnamon 

2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon soda 

2/3 cup milk 80 minims hydrochloric 
% cup seeded raisins finely acid (C. P.) 
chopped 

(This amount of soda and hydrochloric acid is equiva- 
lent to 4 teaspoons baking powder.) 

Mix the flour, butter, salt, milk and hydrochloric acid 
and soda the same as for cream biscuit. 

If baking powder is used, omit the soda and hydro- 
chloric acid and follow the second method given for mixing 
cream biscuit. Roll to i/i i^ch in thickness and spread with 
soft butter not included in the recipe. Sprinkle with the 
sugar, cinnamon, fruit, and roll like a jelly roll. Cut in 
% inch slices, place in a buttered tin, bake in a hot oven 15 
to 20 minutes. Chopped raisins may be used in place of 
the currants, but they have a tendency to soften. 



UNFERMENTED BREADS 41 

BRAN AND GRAHAM BISCUIT 

1 cup sterilized bran 2 teaspoons sugar 

2 cups graham flour 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 2 tablespoons butter 

1 egg 1 teaspoon soda 

80 minims hydrochloric acid (C. P.) 

(This amount of soda and hydrochloric acid is equiva- 
lent to 4 teaspoons baking powder.) 

Mix the flour, bran, sugar and salt together. Beat the 
egg slightly aud add to the milk. Dissolve the soda in the 
milk and add the melted butter. Lastly add the hydro- 
chloric acid. Turn very quickly into the dry ingredients. 
Mix lightly but quickly. Turn upon a molding board and 
shape with a biscuit cutter and bake flfteen to twenty 
minutes. in a hot oven. 

If baking powder is used, omit the hydrochloric acid and 
the soda and proceed as follows : Mix the dry ingredients 
together, beat the egg slightly and add to the milk. Stir 
the liquids into the dry ingredients the same as for cream 
biscuits. Turn out upon a slightly floured molding board 
and roll to one-half inch in thickness. Cut into shape with 
the biscuit cutter and bake in a hot oven. 

GRAHAM HURRY-UPS 

1 cup white flour 7/8 cup milk 

1 cup graham flour % teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons melted butter 1 teaspoon soda 

80 minims hydrochloric acid (C. P.) 

(This amount of hydrochloric acid and soda is equiva- 
lent to 4 teaspoons of baking powder.) 

Sift the salt, graham flour and white flour together. Re- 
turn the bran which is removed by the sifting, to the flour, 



42 THE NEW COOKERY 

first inspecting it to see that no insects are present. Eub 
the butter into the flour. Dissolve the soda in the milk and 
pour into the center of the flour mixture. Add the hydro- 
chloric acid and mix all together very quickly. Drop by 
dessert spoonfuls on an oiled pan and bake in a hot oven 
about twelve minutes. 

If baking powder is used omit the soda and hydro- 
chloric acid and sift the baking powder with the dry in- 
gredients. Then rub the butter into the dry ingredients and 
stir the milk into them. Proceed as above directed. 



GRAHAM GEMS 

1 cup graham flour 1 tablespoon melted butter 

1 cup white flour 1 cup milk 

% cup sugar 1 egg 

1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon soda 

80 minims hydrochloric acid (C. P.) 

(This amount of soda and hydrochloric acid is equiva- 
lent to 4 teaspoons baking powder.) 

Sift the flour, salt and sugar together. Beat the egg 
and add the milk and one-half of the dry ingredients. Add 
the hydrochloric acid and mix thoroughly. Sift the soda 
with the remainder of the dry ingredients and stir into the 
batter. Add the melted butter and bake in gem irons in a 
hot oven twenty to thirty minutes. 

WHOLE WHEAT GEMS 

Make the same as graham gems, substituting whole wheat 
flour for graham flour. 



UNPERMENTED BREADS 43 

EICE MUFFINS 

214 cups flour 1 cup milk 

% cup hot cooked rice 1 egg 

2 tablespoons melted butter i/^ teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons sugar I14 teaspoon soda 

100 minims hydrochloric acid (C. P.) 

(This amount of hydrochloric acid and soda is equiva- 
lent to 5 teaspoons of baking powder.) 

Mix and sift the flour, sugar and salt together. Divide 
the dry ingredients and sift the soda with one-half of them. 
Beat the egg, add the milk and the half of the dry ingredi- 
ents which do not contain the soda. Add the hydrochloric 
acid. Mix thoroughly and stir in the remainder of the dry 
ingredients. Add the butter and fold in the rice. (It will 
take a scant 14 cup of raw rice to make % cup of boiled 
rice.) Turn into buttered gem pans and bake in a quick 
oven twenty to thirty minutes. 

If baking powder is used omit the soda and hydro- 
chloric acid and sift all of the dry ingredients together. 
Beat the egg, add the milk and stir in the dry ingredients 
and proceed as above directed. 

COEN GEMS 

Use the same batter as for Golden Com Cake and hoke 
in gem irons in a hot oven twenty-five to thirty minutes. 

BRAN GEMS 

1 cup sterilized bran 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup graham flour 1 egg 

7/8 cup milk 1 tablespoon sugar 

3 tablespoons melted butter % teaspoon soda 

60 minims hydrochloric acid (C. P.) 



44 THE NEW COOKERY 

(This amount of soda and hydrochloric acid is equiva- 
lent to 3 teaspoons of baking powder.) 

Mix the bran, flour, salt and sugar together. Beat the 
egg, add the milk and one-half of the dry ingredients. Stir 
in the hydrochloric acid. Mix well and add the melted but- 
ter. Sift the soda with the remaining half of the dry in- 
gredients and stir into the batter. Turn into buttered muf- 
fin pans and bake in a hot oven twenty to thirty minutes. 

If baking powder is used sift it with the dry ingredients 
and omit the hydrochloric acid and the soda. Add all of the 
dry ingredients at once, stirring in the butter at the last. 

BLUEBERRY MUFFINS 

1 cup fresh blueberries % cup milk 

2 tablespoons butter 2 cups sifted flour 
2 tablespoons sugar % teaspoon salt 

1 egg 1 teaspoon soda 

80 minims hydrochloric acid (C. P.) 

(This amount of soda and hydrochloric acid is equiva- 
lent to 4 teaspoons of baking powder.) 

Sift the soda, flour and salt together. Cream the butter 
and sugar and add the beaten egg. Then add the hydro- 
chloric acid, and mix well. Add the milk and the dry 
ingredients alternately. At the last fold in the blueberries. 

If baking powder is used sift with the dry ingredients 
and omit the soda and the hydrochloric acid. 

DATE MUFFINS 

14 cup butter 2 cups white flour 

1/4 cup sugar i/^ teaspoon salt 

1 egg % pound dates 

% cup milk 1 teaspoon soda 

80 minims hydrochloric acid (C. P.) 



UNFERMENTED BREADS 45 

(This amount of soda and hydrochloric acid is equiva- 
lent to 4 teaspoons of baking powder.) 

Prepare the dates by immersing in cold water. Remove 
the seeds and then wash in hot water. Cut or chop into 
small pieces. Cur-rants or raisins may be used if preferred. 
Sift the soda and flour together. Cream the butter and 
sugar. Add the beaten egg and the hydrochloric acid. 
Add the milk and the flour alternately and lastly fold in 
the chopped dates. Bake in buttered muffin tins twenty 
to twenty-five minutes in a hot oven. 

If baking powder is used, sift with the dry ingredients 
and omit the soda and hydrochloric acid. 



CHAPTER VI 

SANDWICHES 

EGG SANDWICHES 

6 hard boiled egg yolks i/^ teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon lemon juice Bread 

2 tablespoons cream Butter 

Mash the egg yolks and mix with the cream, lemon juice 
and salt. Spread between thin slices of buttered bread. 
The whole egg may be used if desired. 

BAKED BEAN SANDWICHES 

1 cup baked beans 1 tablespoon Chili sauce 
1^2 tablespoons cooked Bread 

Mayonnaise Dressing Butter 

Mash the beans quite thoroughly and mix with the 
Cooked Mayonnaise Dressing and the Chili sauce. Spread 
between thin slices of buttered bread. 

YOGURT AND JELLY SANDWICHES 

1/4 pound yogurt or neuf- Jelly 

chatel cheese 6 slices bread 

2 tablespoons cream Butter 

Mix the cheese with the cream and spread between two 
slices of bread. Butter a third slice and spread with 
jelly. Put this with the cheese sandwich, making a three- 
layer sand\^dch. Trim the crusts and cut into any desired 
shape. 

46 



SANDWICHES 47 

CHEESE AND PINEAPPLE SANDWICHES 

1 cup grated yogurt or ^ cup shredded pineapple 

neufchatel cheese Bread 

Butter 

Mix the cheese and pineapple thoroughly and spread 
between thin slices of buttered bread. Canned pineapple is 
used in this recipe. 

LETTUCE SANDWICHES 

Thinly sliced bread Crisp lettuce leaves 

Butter Mayonnaise dressing 

Butter the bread and spread between each two slices 
Cooked Mayonnaise Dressing and a crisp lettuce leaf. Cut 
into two pieces, trim and serve. 

COTTAGE CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Thinly sliced buttered 3 tablespoons melted 

bread butter 

% cup cottage cheese 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Mix the cottage cheese with melted butter and lemon 
juice, adding a little salt if desired. Spread this between 
the buttered bread, thinly sliced. Arrange neatly on the 
plate for serving. 

MARMALADE AND CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Butter thin slices of bread. Spread one slice with 
orange marmalade and the other slice with cottage, yogurt 
or neufchatel cheese thinned to the proper consistency to 
spread with cream. Put the two slices together, trim the 
edges and cut into any desired shape. These make a nice 
accompaniment to a fruit salad. 



48 THE NEW COOKERY 

EGG AND OLIVE SANDWICHES 

1 hard boiled egg ^4 teaspoon salt 

1 dozen ripe olives 3 tablespoons Cooked May- 

2 tablespoons lemon juice onnaise Dressing 

Bread and butter 

Put tbe egg through a fine sieve. Stone and chop the 
olives, season with salt and lemon juice and mix all with 
the Cooked Mayonnaise Dressing, and spread on thinly cut 
slices of buttered bread. Cut in triangular shapes. 

CELERY SANDWICHES 

Select bread that is not more than twenty-four hours 
old, slice thinly and spread with butter softened by placing 
in a warm oven a few minutes. Remove tender stalks of 
celery from near the heart of the bunch. For each sand- 
wich select three or four small ones. Dip each stalk into 
cooked or raw mayonnaise dressing, leaving enough of the 
stalk undipped to handle well. About these roll the but- 
tered bread and tie with ribbon. Cut off the undipped 
ends of the celery. 

Chopped celery mixed with a mayonnaise dressing may 
be used in place of the celery stalks. 

CUCUMBER SANDWICHES 

Spread thinly cut slices of bread with butter. Place a 
crisp lettuce leaf on one slice. Spread the other slice with a 
filling made as follows : 

Thinly sliced cucumber, Cooked Mayonnaise Dressing, 
salt and grated onion to taste. This sandwich should not 
be made up until ready to serve. 



SANDWICHES 49 

PEANUT BUTTER SANDWICHES 

Cut bread into thin slices. Butter one-half of the bread 
sparingly with dairy butter. Spread the remaining half 
of the bread with peanut butter. Put the two slices to- 
gether. Trim the crusts and cut into oblong or triangular 
shaped sandwiches. 

PINEAPPLE AND CELERY SANDWICHES 

1 pint can sliced pineapple % cup Cooked Mayonnaise 
1 cup cut celery Dressing 

Drain the juice from the pineapple. Cut the pineapple 
into small pieces and add the cut celery. Mix with the 
Cooked Mayonnaise or, if preferred, the Mayonnaise Dress- 
ing. Spread on thinly sliced buttered bread. Trim the 
crusts and cut into desired shapes. 

PROTOSE SANDWICHES 

% pound can protose i/^ cup cooked Mayonnaise 

1 teaspoon celery salt Dressing 

^ teaspoon salt 

Mince the protose and mix well with the seasonings. 
Add the Mayonnaise and spread between thinly sliced but- 
tered bread. Trim the crusts and cut into oblong or tri- 
angular shaped sandwiches. 

NUT AND OLIVE SANDWICHES 

1 cup ripe olives 1 cup shelled English wal- 

Vs cup Mayonnaise Dressing nuts 

Cut the meat from the olives and chop very fine. Chop 
the walnuts also very fine and bind the nuts and the olives 
with the mayonnaise dressing. The cooked or the raw 



50 THE NEW COOKERY 

mayonnaise may be used. Spread this mixture between 
thin slices of bread sparingly buttered. 

TOMATO SANDWICHES 

Spread thinly cut slices of bread with butter. Spread 
one slice with Cooked Mayonnaise Dressing, the other slice 
with slices of fresh tomato. Sprinkle the tomato with salt 
and put the slices together. Cut into any desired shape. 



CHAPTEE Vn 

DAIRY PRODUCTS 

PASTEURIZED MILK 

THE following articles are necessary for the pasteuriza- 
tion of milk: Pail or deep kettle, rack such as is 
placed under meats in cooking, or a perforated pie tin, 
dairy thermometer. 

Place the rack or an inverted pei'f orated pie tin in the 
bottom of the pail. Arrange the bottles of milk on the 
rack. Do not remove the caps from the bottles. With a 
towel wrung out of hot water cleanse the caps and mouths 
of the bottles. Make an opening in the cap of one of them 
large enough to insert a thermometer. Surround the bot- 
tles with cold water. Fill the pail sufficiently full that the 
water will entirely surround the milk. Place the pail con- 
taining the bottles over the fire and bring quickly to a 
temperature of 145° to 150° F. as is indicated by the ther- 
mometer within the bottle of milk. As soon as this tem- 
perature is reached, remove the bottles to a table or shelf 
out of a draft, cover with a towel and let stand 10 to 20 
minutes. Then cool by placing in warm water and gradu- 
ally replacing with cold water. Set on ice and do not re- 
move the caps until the milk is needed. 

*' STERILIZED" OR SWEET BUTTER 

The word sterilized is really a misnomer in this recipe, 
as the process is one of pasteurization rather than of sterili- 
zation. 

51 



52 THE NEW COOKERY 

Use only sweet cream. Pasteurize it the same as for pas- 
teurized milk. It may be more convenient to use a double 
boiler for this purpose. If so, bring the cream to a tem- 
perature of 145° to 150°, and proceed the same as for 
pasteurization of milk. Cool the cream to about 50°. Chum 
the cream, keeping it at as nearly 50° as possible. Collect 
the butter and work with a paddle, scalded and then chilled, 
and press into a mold or a roll. Sweet butter is usually 
served without salt, though if preferred some salt may be 
used. 

COTTAGE CHEESE 

Heat sour milk very slowly until the whey rises to the 
top ; pour it off, put the curd into a bag and let it drip for 
six hours without squeezing it. Put it into a bowl and 
break it fine with a wooden spoon. Season with salt and 
mix into a paste with a little cream or butter. Mold into 
balls and keep in- a cold place. It is best when fresh. 

BUTTER BALLS 

Cut a pound of butter into 32 one-half ounce squares. 

Scald and soften the butter paddles with hot water. 
Scrub with brush and hot soap suds and chill in cold or ice 
water. Roll the butter between the paddles to form the 
balls. 



CHAPTER VIII 

CREAM SOUPS 

SOUPS are served chiefly as an appetizer, though they may 
be made to convey considerable nourishment. 

As an appetizer they appeal through the senses of taste 
and smell. It is therefore important that they should be 
served hot, as hot foods give off aromas which affect the 
nerves of smell. 

Soups may be divided into Cream Soups and Plain 
Soups or Soups without milk or cream. 

The cream soups are the more nourishing, though many 
of the plain soups are of a high nutritive value. 

Cream gives a very delicate flavor to cooked foods, but 
on account of its scarcity it is often not a convenient article. 

Milk and butter may be substituted for the cream in 
the proportion of 2 level tablespoons of butter and seven- 
eighths cup of milk for each cup of cream. When milk and 
butter are used as a substitute for cream in soups a little 
flour should be used for binding. 

White Sauce is frequently used as a foundation for 
soups. 

A crisp cereal preparation, such as a cracker, thin, 
crisp toast or croutons should be served with soup, thus 
insuring some mastication of the otherwise liquid food. 

CROUTONS 

Cut bread into half inch cubes. Toast in a moderate 
oven. 

53 



54 THE NEW COOKERY 

BREAD STICKS 

Cut stale bread into pieces, three inches long and half 
an inch thick. Toast in a moderate oven. 

CEEAM OP CELERY SOUP 

1 cup diced celery ^ teaspoon salt 

1 pint water 1 pint White Sauce 

Cook the diced celery, for which one large bunch will 
furnish the required quantity, in the salted water, until 
tender. The quantity of celery and liquid should equal 
one pint. To this mixture add one pint of the white sauce, 
made as follows-. 

WHITE SAUCE 

4 tablespoons flour 2 cups milk 

4 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon salt 

Rub together the butter and the flour, adding gradually 
the hot, but not scalding, milk. Cook this white sauce in a 
double boiler for 10 to 15 minutes. Add salt. 

CREAM OF CORN SOUP 

1 can of kemelled com 2 teaspoons salt 

1 quart of milk 3 tablespoons flour 

3 tablespoons butter 
Turn the com into a sauce pan, add a little water and 
cook gently over the fire for a few minutes. Prepare a 
White Sauce of the milk, flour, butter and salt. Turn the 
com into the White Sauce and cook together for a few 
minutes. Any canned com may be used in place of the 
kemelled com, providing it is put through a colander and 
a little more com is used. Komlet may be used in place of 
the kemelled com. 



CREAM SOUPS 55 

CREAM POTATO SOUP NO. 1 

2 large or 3 medium sized 1 pint milk 
potatoes ^ cup cream 

2 teaspoons salt 

Scrub the potatoes, pare, slice and put to cook in suf- 
ficient boiling water to cover. Put through a colander 
with the liquid in which they were cooked. Heat the milk 
and cream and add to the mashed potatoes. Add salt and 
cook 5 minutes. 

CREAM OF POTATO SOUP NO. 2 

2 medium sized potatoes 1 tablespoon butter 

1 pint of milk and potato 1 tablespoon flour 
water i^ teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons grated onion ^ teaspoon celery salt 

2 teaspoons chopped parsley 

Wash and pare the potatoes and slice. Put to cook in 
sufficient boiling salted water to cover. Cook until tender. 
Drain the liquid into a pint measure and mash the potatoes. 
Add sufficient milk to fill the pint measure and turn into 
the mashed potatoes. Add the grated onion, salt and celery 
salt to the liquid. Rub the fiour and butter together and 
pour over it, stirring meanwhile, the hot liquids. Put to 
cook over the fire imtil thickened. Add this to the mashed 
potatoes, cook 5 minutes and add the chopped parsley just 
before serving. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP 

1 can tomatoes % cup flour 

Ys cup butter 3 teaspoons salt 

1 quart milk 

Cover and stew the tomatoes slowly one-half hour to one 



56 THE NEW COOKERY 

hour ; rub through a strainer. Make a white sauce and add 
the strained tomato slowly. One-third cream instead of all 
milk may be used, and adds to the flavor. When cream is 
used, two tablespoons of butter is all that is necessary. 

Condensed tomato may be used advantageously in this 
recipe, in which case use ll^ cups condensed tomato and 
an equal quantity of water. It is not necessary to cook this 
before adding to white sauce except to bring it to the boil- 
ing point. 

CREAM OP RICE SOUP 

14 cup rice li^ teaspoons salt 

2 cups water 3 cups milk 

2 slices onion 1 tablespoon butter 

^ teaspoon almond extract 

Add the rice and onion to the boiling water. Cook until 
tender, then rub through the colander. Add the butter and 
hot milk. Reheat, season with salt and extract, and serve. 
This makes 1 quart. 

CREAM OF VEGETABLE OYSTER SOUP NO. 1 

iy2 cups diced vegetable IV2 teaspoons salt 

oysters 1 cup cream 

2 cups water 2 cups milk 

» 

Cook the vegetable oysters in the boiling, salted water. 
When tender, take out one-third of them, and put the re- 
mainder through the colander. Add to this puree the diced • 
vegetable oysters. Heat the milk and cream in the double 
boiler, and add to the hot puree. Salt and serve at once. 

An additional cup (scant) of milk and 2 tablespoons of 
butter may be used in place of the cream if desired. 



CREAM SOUPS 57 

CREAM OF VEaETABLE OYSTER SOUP NO. 2 

ly^ cups vegetable oysters 1^^ teaspoons salt 
(sliced) 3 tablespoons flour 

2 cups water 3 tablespoons butter 

2 cups milk 

Cook the vegetable oysters in 2 cups water. Take out 
% of them. Put the remainder through the colander, and 
add this pulp to the sliced vegetable oysters. Add the 
white sauce, made by rubbing together the butter and flour 
until smooth, and adding the warm milk slowly. Add 
salt, and cook for ten minutes in a double boiler. After 
combining the white sauce with the vegetable oysters, 
measure and add water sufficient to make 1 quart. 



CREAM OF BROWNED ONION SOUP 

4 medium sized onions 1 cup water 

3 tablespoons slightly 3 tablespoons butter 

browned flour 2 cups milk 

ly^ teaspoons salt 

Slice the onions and put in a buttered pan. Add a little 
water, cover, and put into the oven, covered. When the 
onions are tender, remove the cover and brown. Rub the 
browned onions through a colander, add the water, and the 
white sauce, made by adding the hot milk to the butter and 
slightly browned flour rubbed together until smooth. The 
white sauce should cook 10 minutes in a double boiler be- 
fore it is added to the onion. Reheat the soup, salt, and 
serve. This makes 1 quart. 



58 THE NEW COOKERY 

CREAM OF OKRA SOUP 

1 cup okra (canned) 2/3 cup cream 

14 cup strained tomato or 2 1 teaspoon brown sugar 

tablespoons condensed to- 1 teaspoon grated onion 

mato 4 teaspoons Savora or 3 

1 cup water tablespoons Japanese Soy 

1 tablespoon flour 

Cook together the strained tomato, water and Savora. 
Add the okra and heat. Strain through a colander. Add 
grated onion, brown sugar, and the flour, moistened 
with a little cold water. Heat the cream, and add to the 
soup before serving. 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS SOUP 

Drain the liquid from a 1 pint can of soup asparagus, 
wash by letting cold water run over it and put the stalks 
through a colander, making 1 cup of puree. Make a white 
sauce of the following ingredients : 

2 cups milk 2 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon salt 

Add the hot puree slowly to the hot white sauce, stir- 
ring constantly. Serve immediately. 

CREAM OF CRECY SOUP 

3 medium sized carrots (1% 1 tablespoon flour 

cup sliced) % cup cream 

1 cup water 1 slice onion % inch thick 

2 cups milk 1 bay leaf 

1 teaspoon salt 

Cook carrots in water. Steep bay leaf and onion in 
the milk and cream in double boiler. Remove onion and 



CREAM SOUPS 59 

bay leaf and thicken with flour. Put carrots through 
colander and add to the thickened milk and cream. One 
potato with it also relieves strong taste. Parsley may also 
be added. 

CREAM OF SWEET POTATO SOUP 

6 small sweet potatoes 1 cup cream 

1 quart water ly^ teaspoons salt 

1% teaspoons minced parsley 

Peel potatoes and immerse at once in cold water to 
which has been added a little flour to prevent discoloration. 
Drain and put to cook in sufficient boiling water to cover. 
When tender drain and rub through a colander. This 
should make three cups of mashed potato. Add water, 
cream, salt and parsley. Reheat and serve. The water in 
which the potatoes are cooked may be used as a part of 
the liquid unless very dark. 

CREAM OF BARLEY SOUP 

y^ cup barley 2/3 pint milk 

l^ pint cream , 3 cups water 

1 teaspoon salt 

Soak the barley a few hours, or over night. Drain and 
cook in three cups water. When tender, take out one-third 
of the barley. Put the remainder through a colander, add 
the cream and milk and the remaining one-third of the 
barley. Reheat, add salt and serve. 

If cream is not obtainable, a thin white sauce may be 
used instead. A little onion or celery salt may be added 
for seasoning, if desired. 



60 THE NEW COOKERY 

CREAM OF GREEN PEA SOUP NO. 1 

1 pint or 1 can green peas 2 tablespoons butter 
1 quart water 2 tablespoons flour 

1 pint milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon sugar 

Wash the peas and put to cook in the boiling water and 
cook until soft, then mash through a colander and add to 
the liquid in which they were cooked. Make a white sauce 
of the butter, flour and milk and add to the mashed peas. 
Add the salt and sugar and cook together 5 minutes. 

CREAM OP GREEN PEA SOUP NO. 2 

1 cup peas puree 1^^ cups water 

1 tablespoon flour 1 tablespoon butter 
1^2 cups milk 1 teaspoon salt 

Press fresh boiled or canned peas through a colander to 
make a puree. To one cup of puree, add the salt, water 
and milk, and heat to scalding. Rub the flour and butter 
together, pour gradually over them, stirring meanwhile, 
the hot liquid, and return to the kettle and heat to the 
scalding point again. Cook flve minutes and serve. 

CREAM OF CHESTNUT SOUP 

2 cups mashed chestnuts 4 tablespoons flour 
4 tablespoons butter 6 cups milk 

iy2 teaspoons salt 

Prepare the chestnuts by immersing in boiling water 
and cooking for 10 minutes. Remove them from the hot 
water a few at a time and with a sharp paring knife, 
quickly remove both skins. ]\rash them through a colander. 
Make a white sauce of the remaining ingredients. Add the 
mashed chestnuts. Reheat and serve. 



CREAM SOUPS 61 

WASHINGTON CHOWDER 

2 medium sized potatoes 1 cup stewed tomatoes 

{iy2 cups sliced) 1 cup com 

iy2 cups water 1 cup milk 

y2 small onion 1 cup cream 

1 teaspoon salt 

Slice the onion and cook with the potatoes in the boil- 
ing, salted water. When tender add the tomatoes and corn 
and bring to the boiling point. Heat the cream and milk 
and add to the vegetables just before serving. Serve hot 
over crackers. 

CORN CHOWDER 

% can com 1 onion sliced 

1 pint sliced potatoes 1 pint of milk 

2 tablespoons butter % teaspoon salt 

1 cup water 

Cook the onion in the double boiler in % the butter for 
20 minutes. Add the sliced potatoes and 1 cup boiling 
water. Cook directly over the flame until the potatoes are 
tender. Add the com, milk, and the remainder of the 
butter. Heat to the boiling point, add the salt and serve 
hot over crackers. 

POTATO CHOWDER 

% pint sliced potatoes % small onion 

1 pint boiling water 1^ cups milk 

1 teaspoon salt ^ cup cream 

Put the potatoes to cook in the boiling water with the 
salt and sliced onion. When tender put 2/3 of them 
through a colander and add to the remainder of the po- 
tatoes. Add the milk and cream, reheat and serve over 
crackers. This quantity should make one quart. 



62 THE NEW COOKERY 

CEEAM OF SQUASH SOUP 

1 pint of mashed squash 1 tablespoon butter 

1 quart of milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon flour 1^^ tablespoons sugar 

Whipped cream 

Put the squash, which may be freshly cooked or canned, 
with the milk, sugar and salt in a sauce pan and heat. 
Mix the butter and flour together and stir the hot liquid 
into it. Cook gently for 5 minutes. Place a spoonful of 
whipped cream on top of each individual serving. 

OATMEAL AND MUSHEOOM SOUP 

3 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon salt 

1 medium sized onion 1 quart water 

% cup oatmeal 1 pint milk 

14 cup chopped mushrooms 

Peel the onion and chop finely. Place in the inner por- 
tion of the double boiler with the butter and cook 15 to 
20 minutes. Then add the oatmeal and the boiling water. 
Cook directly over the flame for about 10 minutes. Then 
place in the double boiler and cook from 2 to 3 hours. Rub 
through a colander and add the milk. When thoroughly 
heated, add the chopped mushrooms and salt. The mush- 
rooms are somewhat improved in flavor by broiling a few 
minutes before adding to the soup. If desired a spoonful 
of whipped cream may be added to each serving. 

TOMATO BISQUE 

1 quart can tomatoes 3 2-inch sticks cinnamon 

1 pint water 3 slices lemon 

2 teaspoons salt 1 tablespoon butter 
1 Yo tablespoons sugar 3 tablespoons flour 

1 cup cream 



CREAM SOUPS 63 

Cook the tomato, sugar, cinnamon, lemon and salt to- 
gether for 20 minutes. Put through a colander and bind 
with the butter and flour. Let boil 5 minutes, add the hot 
cream and serve at once. 

If preferred, bay leaf and onion may be used for season- 
ing in preference to the cinnamon and lemon. 

Condensed tomato may be used in this recipe, in which 
case use ll^ cups condensed tomatoes and an additional 
2% cups of water. 

RUSSIAN BEET SOUP 

% cup beet pulp (cooked) 1 tablespoon sugar 
1/2 cup cream li^ teaspoons salt 

2% cups water 2 eggs 

4 teaspoons lemon juice 

Three medium sized beets make one cup of pulp. Cook 
the beets until tender, put through colander, add cream, 
water, sugar, salt and put in the double boiler. Beat eggs 
slightly, add about a cup of hot liquid from double boiler, 
stirring constantly. Eetum to double boiler and stir until 
it thickens slightly. Remove from fire and add lemon 
slowly. 

CREAM OF ALMOND SOUP 

^ cup rice % pound shelled almonds 

2 quarts hot milk 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 quart boiling water 1 cup cold water 

2 teaspoons salt 

Wash the rice thoroughly by pouring boiling water over 
it to dissolve the polish : finish with cold water. Add the 
rice to the boiling water and let boil actively for 12 to 15 
minutes, then drain off the water and add the partially 
cooked rice to the hot milk. Cook three-fourths of an hour. 
Blanch the almonds by throwing them into boiling water for 



64 THE NEW COOKERY 

about one minute or until the skin loosens from the nuts. 
Place them between towels. Rub vigorously to remove skin. 
Place the blanched almonds in the mortar and pound them 
with a pestle. Add a little of the cold water from time to 
time. If a mortar and pestle are not obtainable a wooden 
chopping bowl and potato masher will suffice. When the 
nuts have been reduced to a paste, add to the rice and milk, 
then add the sugar and salt. A few drops of almond flavor- 
ing may be used instead of the almonds. 

CREAM OF DASHEEN SOIlP 

6 medium sized dasheens V2 cup cream 
1 pint milk 2 teaspoons salt 

% teasi)oon onion salt 

Clean the dasheen by removing the coarse, fibrous cover- 
ing. Wash and put to cook in boiling water. When tender, 
which will require 20 to 25 minutes cooking, remove from 
the water, peel and mash through a colander. Add the hot 
milk and cream slowly and heat to the boiling point. Add 
the salt and onion salt. 1 tablespoon butter and ^ cup 
milk may be used in place of the cream. It will then be 
advisable to add a little flour for thickening. 

CREAM OF LENTIL SOUP 

1 cup lentils (dry) 3 tablespoons butter 

3 cups water 2 cups milk 

3 tablespoons flour 2 teaspoons salt 

Soak the lentils for several hours in 3 cups of water. 
Cook 2 to 3 hours. When tender, rub through the colander 
and if necessary add hot water sufficient to make one pint 
of puree. Make a white sauce of the butter, flour and milk, 
and add gradually to the lentil puree, reheat, salt, and serve. 
This makes 1 quart. 



CREAM SOUPS 65 

CREAM OF BEAN SOUP 

1 cup white beans iy2 tablespoons butter 
iy2 quarts water 1^/^ tablespoons flour 

2 teaspoons salt 2 cups milk 

% teaspoon onion salt 

Put the beans to soak over night if possible. Drain and 
put to cook in the boiling water. "When tender, rub through 
a colander and add to the liquid in which they were cooked. 
Make a white sauce of the flour, butter and milk (part 
cream if possible). Then add the salt and turn into the 
mashed beans. Cook together 5 minutes and serve. 

CREAM OF LIMA BEAN SOUP 

1 cup dried lima beans 1 tablespoon butter 

1 quart water 1 tablespoon flour 

2 cups milk 1 teaspoon salt 

% teaspoon onion salt 

Soak the beans in cold water over night if possible. 
Put to cook in a quart of boiling water. Let simmer until 
the beans are perfectly tender, then put through a colander. 
Make a white sauce of the milk, flour, butter and salt. Add 
the bean puree and water sufficient to make one quart of 
soup. Add the salt and onion salt just before serving. 

CREAM OF SCOTCH PEA SOUP 

V2 cup Scotch or dried 2 tablespoons flour 

green peas 2 cups milk 

1 quart water 1 V2 teaspoons salt 

2 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon sugar 

Cook the peas 5 to 6 hours, or until tender, in the quart 
of water. Rub through the colander. Add water suf- 



66 THE NEW COOKERY 

ficient to make 1 pint of puree. Put the milk to heat in a 
double boiler. Prepare a white sauce, made by rubbing 
together the butter and flour and a little warm milk. The 
white sauce should cook about 10 minutes in a double boiler, 
then add it to the body of the soup. 

After the white sauce and puree have cooked a few 
moments, add the salt and sugar and serve. This makes 1 
quart. 

CREAM OF SPLIT PEA SOUP 

1 cup split peas 3 tablespoons butter 
2^2 quarts water 3 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons chopped 1% teaspoons salt 
' onion 1 pint milk 

Wash the peas and soak them over night in cold water, 
drain and rinse thoroughly, add 2l^ quarts of cold water 
and the onion. Cook slowly until soft, rub through a 
strainer. Make a white sauce of the remaining ingredients 
and add to the above. Cook together 5 minutes. 

MANHATTAN SOUP 

1 quart Vegetable Bouillon 3 tablespoons butter 

or Savora Bouillon i/^ cup cream 

4 tablespoons flour, slightly % cup whipping cream 

browned I/2 ^SS white 

Rub the flour and butter together. Heat the vegetable 
bouillon and pour slowly over the flour and butter, stirring 
meanwhile. Let boil 5 minutes, add the cream and reheat. 
Serve in bouillon cups. Beat the whipping cream until 
stiff, add one-half of a beaten egg white and season with 
a few grains of salt, also one-fourth teaspoon sugar. Serve 
a spoonful of the seasoned whipped cream on top of each 
serving of bouillon. 



CHAPTER IX 



PLAIN SOUPS 



1 can tomatoes 
1 pint water 
1 teaspoon salt 
1 slice onion 



TOMATO SOUP 

1 small bay leaf 

1% tablespoons butter 
3 tablespoons flour 

2 teaspoons sugar 
2 teaspoons Savora 



Cook the tomatoes, water, bay leaf, onion, salt and 
savora together 15 to 20 minutes. Strain and pour slowly 
over the flour and butter, which have been well blended, 
stirring meanwhile. Let boil five minutes and serve. If 
preferred, other seasonings may be used. Three slices 
lemon, and three two-inch sticks of cinnamon, instead of the 
onion and bay leaf, make a delicious soup. The savora 
may be omitted. 

1^ cups condensed tomato and 2% cups of water may 
be used in place of the quart of tomatoes. 



TOMATO AND CELERY SOUP 
1 cup celery cut into half- 1 tablespoon of sugar 



inch pieces 
1 pint water 
1 quart tomatoes 



2 teaspoons salt 
11/2 tablespoons flour 
2 tablespoons butter 
1 bay leaf 



n? 



68 THE NEW COOKERY 

Rub the contents of a quart can of tomatoes through a 
colander. Boil together the celery, water, strained tomato, 
bay leaf, sugar and salt. When celery is tender, bind the 
ingredients by rubbing the flour and butter together and 
pouring over it a little at a time, some of the warm (not 
scalding) soup. "When thoroughly blended, stir into the 
remainder of the soup, and cook. Let boil gently for 5 
minutes. Remove the bay leaf; add sufficient water to 
make 1^ quarts soup. 

CREOLE SOUP 

y^. quart can tomato or 1 small carrot 

% cup condensed tomato 1 large onion 

2 tablespoons rice 2 cups water 

1 small turnip 1 tablespoon butter 

2 teaspoons salt 

Peel and slice the turnip, carrot, and onion. Cook these 
vegetables with the rice, tomato and salt in the water. 
When the vegetables are tender, rub all through the colan- 
der. Add the butter and, if necessary, water sufficient to 
make one quart. 

TOMATO BOUILLON 

1 cup sliced carrots 2 cups strained tomatoes or 

1 cup sliced turnips % cup condensed tomato 

1 cup chopped celery 1 quart water 

1 cup chopped onions 1 teaspoon salt 

Cook the vegetables, which have been sliced, in the 
water until tender. Strain off liquid which should equal 
one pint in quantity. Add the tomato which has been put 
through a colander, and salt. If desired, one bay leaf may 
be added to vegetables when cooking. 



PLAIN SOUPS 69 

ITALIAN SOUP 

To the Tomato Bouillon, add one-half cup of macaroni, 
which has been cooked in one quart water. In cooking the 
macaroni, add it to the boiling water together with 1 tea- 
spoon of salt. When the macaroni has become tender, 
drain off the water, adding a dash of cold water to keep the 
macaroni from Tsticking. Cut the macaroni into small rings, 
and add to bouillon. Macaroni ringlets or Italian paste 
may be substituted if desired. 

TOMATO VERMICELLI 

Cook 1/^ cup vermicelli, broken into inch lengths, boiling 
in salted water, and add to Italian soup, in place of the 
macaroni. 

OKRA SOUP 

2 cups okra (canned) 2 teaspoons grated onion 

2 cups water 2 tablespoons Savora or 

11/2 cups strained tomato 4 tablespoons Japanese Soy 

Rub the okra through a colander. Heat the okra and 
other ingredients, and serve. 

GREEN PEAS SOUP 

1 pint canned peas 1 tablespoon butter 

1 pint water 1 tablespoon flour 

1 teaspoon salt 1 slice onion 

Put the peas through the colander. Add the water. 
Rub together the flour and butter, moistened with a little 
water. Add this to the peas, and cook with the onion for 
about fifteen minutes. Salt and serve. Celery salt may be 
substituted for the onion, if desired. 



70 THE NEW COOKERY 

POTATO SOUP 

1 cup raw sliced potatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups water 1 tablespoon butter 

2 sliced onions % teaspoon celery salt 

1 tablespoon flour 

Cook the sliced potatoes and onion until tender. Rub 
through the colander. Add 2 cups hot water to the flour 
and butter, rubbed smooth. Stir until thickened, add to 
the mashed potato. Reheat, salt, and serve. 

SAVORY POTATO SOUP 

% quart raw sliced potatoes 4 tablespoons Nut Soup 
11/2 tablespoons grated Stock 

onion 1 teaspoon salt 

1 quart water 

Dissolve the Nut Soup Stock in the water, add the po- 
tatoes, onion and salt and cook until tender. Rub through 
a colander. While the potatoes are cooking a little mar- 
joram and mint tied in a cheese cloth may be cooked with 
them, if additional flavoring is desired. Add water to 
make 1 quart. 

BARLEY SOUP 

1/2 cup pearl barley 4 teaspoons Savora or 

1 cup strained tomato or 2 tablespoons Japanese Soy 

Vs cup condensed tomato 2 tablespoons butter 

1 quart water 1 tablespoon flour 

2 teaspoons salt 1 tablespoon sugar 
1/2 teaspoon celery salt 1 bay leaf 

Put the barley to cook in the boiling salted water to- 
gether with the strained tomato and bay leaf, until tender, 
keeping covered while cooking. Add the celery salt, sugar 



PLAIN SOUPS 71 

and Savora. Blend the flour and butter. Pour a little of 
the hot soup into them, stirring meanwhile, then turn back 
into the remainder of the ingredients and cook 5 minutes. 

NUT FRENCH SOUP 

Ys can Nut Soup Stock 2/3 cup stewed tomatoes or 

4 cups water i^ cup condensed tomato 

1 tablespoon browned flour 14 bay leaf 

1 teaspoon salt Ys teaspoon sage 

% small onion % teaspoon thyme 

Tie the sliced onion, the bay leaf, sage and thyme in a 
cloth and let simmer in the water to which has been added 
the strained, stewed tomatoes, the salt, and the Nut Soup 
Stock. Let boil slowly about % hour, then thicken with 
the browned flour moistened with a little cold water. 

SANITERRAPIN SOUP 

1 oz. protose (about 1^/^ 1 tablespoon butter 

tablespoons) l^ teaspoon celery salt 

1 tablespoon flour i/^ teaspoon salt 

2% cups water 2 teaspoons Savora 

1 egg yolk 
Shred the protose and cook in water with the seasonings, 
the Savora and butter. Thicken with the flour and cook 5 
minutes. Just before serving, remove from the fire; add 
a little at a time the beaten egg yolk, letting it drop through 
a fine strainer and stirring meanwhile. 

VEGETABLE OYSTER SOUP 

1 quart diced vegetable 21/2 teaspoons salt 

oysters 2 tablespoons butter 

1 quart water 1 tablespoon flour 



72 THE NEW COOKERY 

Cook the vegetable oysters in sufficient boiling water to 
cover. Let the water largely evaporate before finishing the 
cooking. Rub them through a colander and add the one 
quart of water and the salt. Blend the butter and the 
flour together and add a little of the hoi soup, stirring 
meanwhile. When well mixed, return to the soup and cook 
until thickened. 

2 teaspoons of Savora or a half teaspoon of onion salt 
added to this recipe improves the flavor. 

VEGETABLE SOUP 

%: cup diced potato 2 tablespoons butter 

y^ cup diced carrots li/^ cups strained tomato 

% cup diced turnips 2 cups water 

% cup chopped cabbage 1 y^ tablespoons caramelized 

2 tablespoons grated onion sugar 

1^2 teaspoons salt 
Clean and dice the potatoes,. carrots, and turnips. Put 
the cabbage through the food chopper. Cook all the vege- 
tables in the 2 cups of water until they are tender. Add 
the strained tomato and water, sufficient to make 1 quart. 
Add caramelized sugar, made as follows : put the sugar in 
a pan, stir constantly over the blaze until melted to a syrup 
of a rich brown color. Add gradually sufficient boiling 
water to dissolve the caramel and add to the soup. Salt 
and serve. 

THICK VEGETABLE SOUP 

% cup dried split peas % cup turnips 

14 cup dried white beans % cup carrots 

1 cup sliced potatoes 1 cup strained tomatoes 

V2 cup sliced vegetable tablespoons butter 

oysters 1 tablespoon chopped 
1^ cups celery parsley 

11/2 teaspoons salt 



PLAIN SOUPS 7:3 

Soak the peas and beans over night. Cook them in water 
to cover until tender. Add the other vegetables and cook 
until all are tender. Add sufficient water to make one and 
one-half quarts of soup. Add salt and butter and serve. 

• 

VEGETABLE SOUP WITH NOODLES 

1 cup diced carrots y^ cup rice 

1 cup diced turnips 4 tablespoons butter 

1 cup chopped cabbage 2 cups diced potatoes 

Vi> cup chopped onion Noodles 

Water to make 4 quarts soup 

Cook the carrots, turnips, cabbage, and onion until they 
begin to get tender. Then add the rice, diced potatoes, 
noodles, and butter, also salt, and cook until all are tender. 

NOODLES 

1 egg yolk l^ cup flour salt 

Beat the egg yolk and add flour to make a stiff dough. 
Roll very thin, fold one-half over the other side, and roll 
like a jelly roll. Cut in very thin slices crosswise and 
shake to unfold. Add to the boiling soup. 

SAYORA RICE SOUP 

% cup rice 4 tablespoons Savora 

1% quarts water 1 tablespoon butter 

V2 teaspoon celery salt 

Cook the rice in the water to which has been added the 
celery salt and savora. Let boil one-half hour or more. Add 
the butter and serve. 



74 THE NEW COOKERY 

MOCK CHICKEN SOUP 

3 tablespoons rice 14 ^^P mushrooms 

3 cups water 1 teaspoon Savora 

y^ teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons butter 

Cook the rice one-half hour in the. water with the 
Savora and salt. Cook the mushrooms in a double boiler 
in the butter, and add to the above ingredients. 

FRUIT SOUP 

11/^ cups strawberry juice 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

IV2 <^ups pineapple juice 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 cup cooked cherries and 2 tablespoons sago 

juice 1% cups water 

Cook the sago in the water until transparent. Add the 
other ingredients. Reheat and serve. The amount of 
sugar to be added will be determined by the amount used 
in the canned fruit, if canned fruit juice is used. The 
quantity of soup should equal one quart. It may be served 
hot or cold. 

BEAN SOUP 

1 cup dry white beans 1^ teaspoons salt 

1 quart water 1 tablespoon flour 

1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon onion salt 

Soak the beans in cold water over night, put to cook in 
soft water if possible, and let cook slowly for 4 to 5 hours, 
or until the beans are perfectly tender. Put them through 
a colander, rub the butter, flour and salt together. Pour 
a little of the warm liquid over this, stirring while so doing, 
and then turn this into the remainder of the hot liquid. 
Add seasoning. Let cook 5 to 10 minutes. This should 
make one quart when finished. If lacking in quantity, add 
water sufficient to make one quart. Celery salt may be 
used, in place of the onion if preferred. 



PLAIN SOUPS iO 

LIMA BEAN SOUP 

1 cup lima beans 3 pints water 

% teaspoon salt li/^ tablespoons flour 

1 slice onion 1 tablespoon butter 

Put the lima beans and slice of onion to cook in cold 
water. Soaking the beans over night lessens the time of 
cooking. Boil the beans imtil tender, then rub through a 
colander. Add the salt and water, sufficient to make one 
quart. Blend the flour and butter, and add slowly about 
one cup of the warm liquid. Then add this thickening 
gradually to the rest of the soup. Let boil gently for 5 
minutes and serve. 

BEAN AND TAPIOCA SOUP 

% cup white beans i/^ teaspoon celery salt 

y^ cup tapioca 1% teaspoons salt 

6 cloves 2 tablespoons butter 

6 cups water 

Put the tapioca to soak in 3 cups water and let stand 
over night. Put the beans to soak in cold water and let 
stand over night. In the morning put the tapioca to cook in 
the water in which it was soaked. Drain the liquid from 
the beans and put to cook in 3 cups boiling water. Add the 
cloves and cook until tender. Then remove the cloves and 
put the beans with the liquid through a colander. Cook the 
tapioca until transparent, then add to the beans and lastly 
add the butter. 

SPLIT PEAS PUREE 

1 pint vegetable stock 4 tablespoons butter 

1 cup dried split peas 2 teaspoons salt 

4 tablespoons flour Water to make one quart 

To prepare the vegetable stock, take ^ cup chopped 



76 THE NEW COOKERY 

turnips, I/2 cup celery, i/^ cup sliced potatoes, 1/2 cup 
chopped onion, I/2 cup chopped carrots. Cook these vege- 
tables in plenty of water to cover until tender, drain off 
the liquid, of which there should be 1 pint. If not, add 
water sufficient to make this quantity. Soak the split peas 
over night and simmer in sufficient water to cover until 
soft. Put the peas through a colander, and add the vege- 
table broth, also sufficient water to make 1 quart. Rub the 
flour and butter together and pour over it slowly the hot 
liquids. Let boil 5 minutes. Add salt and serve. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP 

1 pint black beans 1 piece celery root 

2 quarts cold water 4 tablespoons butter 
2 tablespoons chopped 4 tablespoons flour 

onion 2 hard boiled eggs 

4 teaspoons salt 1 lemon 

Soak the beans in the two quarts of water the day before 
the soup is to be made. Cook the onion in the double boiler 
in one-half of the butter for 20 to 30 minutes, then add to 
the beans and the celery root and allow to cook until tender, 
which will require several hours. Remove the celery root 
and mash the beans through a sieve or colander into a large 
bowl or kettle. Make a white sauce of the other ingredi- 
ents and add to the bean puree and cook a few mifautes. 
Cut the lemon into thin slices, also the hard boiled eggs and 
place in soup tureen. Pour the soup over this. Serve a 
slice of egg and lemon on each plate. Be very careful 
about the thickness of the soup. It should be of a creamy 
consistency. A little additional seasoning may be necessary, 
and also some hot water for thinning. 



PLAIN SOUPS 77 

LENTIL SOUP 

1 cup dried lentils 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

2 teaspoons salt 2 slices onions 

1 tablespoon butter 1 small bay leaf 

1 tablespoon flour l^/^ quarts water 

Put the lentils, bay leaf and onion to boil in the water, 
and cook slowly for three hours, or until tender. Then put 
through a colander. Rub the flour and butter together 
and stir in a little of the soup, then add this to the whole 
of the mixture and boil 5 minutes. Add the salt and lemon 
juice just before serving. This should make one quart of 
soup. If not, add water sufficient to make this quantity. 

ASPARAGUS BROTH 

1 pint can soup asparagus 1 pint water 

1/2 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon butter 

Put the asparagus through a colander, add the water 
and the seasonings and bring to the boiling point. 

If the asparagus tips are used, use one-half the quantity 
of the other ingredients. 

PROTOSE BROTH 

1 pound protose 1 bay leaf 

1 quart cold water Vo teaspoon celery salt 

2 cups strained tomato Thyme and onion, if desired 

Put the protose with the tomato and seasonings in the 
cold water and let cook slowly until the boiling point is 
reached. Boil gently for about two hours. Strain. There 
should be about 2^^ cups when strained. 



78 THE NEW COOKERY 

SAVORA BROTH 

2 teaspoons Savora 1 tablespoon butter 

2 cups water ^ teaspoon salt 

Heat the water, add the butter and the savora and bring 
to the boiling point. 

VEGETABLE BOUILLON 

2 cups sliced potatoes i/^ cup dried peas 

2 2/3 cups sliced carrots 1 teaspoon salt 
2/3 cup sliced turnips 3 quarts water 

Soak the dried peas over night. Then put to cook in cold 
water and let come slowly to the boiling point. Let simmer 
for 4 hours, or until the peas are thoroughly softened. Pare 
and slice the turnips and carrots, and put to cook with the 
peas, about an hour and a half before the peas have 
finished cooking. Pare the potatoes and slice, and add them 
to the peas, and other ingredients, a half hour before they 
are finished cooking. When all are tender, drain off the 
liquid, which should equal one quart in quantity. If there 
is not this quantity, add sufficient water to make one quart. 
If desired 1 tablespoon Japanese sauce or soy, or 2 tea- 
spoons Savora may be added. To each serving add a table- 
spoon small string beans cut into short lengths. 

VEGETABLE CONSOJMME WITH PEAS 

y2, cup diced carrots % cup chopped celery 

% cup diced turnips % cup potato, sliced 

% cup chopped cabbage % cup sweet potatoes 

% cup chopped onion 

Bring the vegetables to a boil in 1 quart of water. Then 
cook in double boiler 3 hours. Reserve potatoes until y^ 
hour before serving. Add 1% cups bean stock, salt, season 



PLAIN SOUPS 79 

with thyme, add 1 teaspoon butter and serve. To each 
serving add a dessert spoon of canned peas. This makes 
1 quart soup. 

Prepare the bean stock as follows : 

Soak 1 cup of beans in 1 quart water over night. Put 
to cook in the same water in which they were soaked and 
cook until thoroughly softened. Let stand until settled, 
then strain off the clear liquid. There should be 1% cups 
of it. If deficient in quantity add sufiicient water to make 
this amount. 

MOCK CHICKEN BROTH 

2 carrots 14 pound protose 

1 turnip 1 quart cold water 

1 onion i/^ teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 
Slice or chop the vegetables and the protose. Cover 
with the water and let simmer 1 to 2 hours. Beat the eggs 
slightly, strain the vegetables and pour the warm broth 
slowly over the eggs. Add salt. Do not reheat, but serve 
at once. 

SAVORA BOUILLOxN 

y2 cup diced carrots y^ cup chopped celery 

Vs cup diced turnips 2 tablespoons Savora 

% cup sliced onions 3 quarts cold water 

Put the vegetables to cook and let them come slowly to 
the boiling point. Let boil for one hour or more or until 
the vegetables are tender and the liquid is reduced to iy2 
quarts. Strain out the vegetables, add the savora and salt 
if desired. Clarify the stock as follows : Beat the whites 
of two eggs slightly, break the shells into small pieces and 
add with the beaten whites to the cool stock. Place over a 
hot fire and stir constantly until the boiling point is reached. 



80 THE NEW COOKERY 

Boil 2 minutes and then set on the back of the range and 
let simmer 20 minutes. Remove the scum and strain 
through a double thickness of cheese cloth placed over a fine 
strainer. It may now be served as a clear bouillon, or it 
may be served in bouillon cups with a spoonful of whipped 
cream on top. 

NOODLE SOUP 

2 eggs iy2 tablespoons Savora 

2 cups flour 5 teaspoons salt 

3 quarts water 4 tablespoons butter 

Prepare the noodles by beating the eggs slightly and 
adding the flour, making a very stiff dough. Roll very 
thin, fold one-half over the other side and roll like a jelly 
roll. Cut in very thin slices crosswise, sh^ke and unfold. 
Prepare the stock of the other ingredients and add the 
noodles to the boiling liquid. Cook % hour or more until 
the noodles are very tender. 



CHAPTER X 

MEAT SUBSTITUTES AND 

ENTREES 

IN many homes, meat forms the chief part of the meal, 
hence housewives in planning a meatless dietary ex- 
claim, ** What shall we serve in place of meat?" 

The answer to this question involves a knowledge of 
the chemistry of foods. 

Lean meat is pre-eminently a protein food. It contains 
usually from. 15% to 19% protein, a small amount of 
mineral matter and a large amount of water. 

Many other foods are also rich in this albuminous food 
constituent. Nuts contain on an average from 20 to 25% 
protein; legumes contain about 25% protein. Eggs, milk 
and cheese are also high in this constituent. The above 
named foods are the chief sources of protein and hence form 
the basis of so-called * ' meat substitutes. ' ' However, nature 
has not left man to his own resources in finding this im- 
portant food principle, but has scattered it broadcast. It is 
found to some extent in almost all natural food products. 
Science has discovered that we need much less of this con- 
stituent than was formerly supposed, so that the housewife 
need not concern herself particularly to supply suflBcient 
protein. 

One meat substitute or highly protein dish is quite suf- 
iicient for one meal, and if milk, eggs, cheese or nuts are 
used in the preparation of one or more dishes, a special meat 
substitute will not always be required. A higher dish or 

81 



82 THE NEW COOKERY 

entree is often to be preferred for the main dish or piece 
de resistance. 

ROAST PROTOSE WITH DRESSING 

Remove the contents of a can of Protose, cut it down 
through the center lengthwise and lay the two halves in a 
dripping pan with the flat side down. Prepare half of the 
Brown Sauce recipe and dilute with an equal quantity of 
water. Pour this over the Protose, place in the oven and 
bake for an hour to an hour and a half, basting frequently 
with the sauce surrounding the protose. Serve with the 
following dressing. 

Dressing for Roasts 

1 qt. stale bread crumbs li/^ cups cold water 

iy2 tablespoo^s grated 1 egg 

onion % teaspoon sage 

iy2 tablespoons melted but- ^ teaspoon salt 

ter 14 teaspoon celery salt 

Moisten the bread crumbs with the cold water (the 
amount varying with the dryness of the bread), add the 
grated onion, salt, sage, celery salt and the melted butter. 
Beat the egg until light and fold into the dressing. Bake 
in a moderate oven one-half hour or until nicely browned. 

BROILED PROTOSE 

Remove the end of the can of protose, so the contents 
will come out whole. Slice the protose in i^-inch slices, 
the round way. Cut the slices in halves. Place on an 
oiled dripping pan, broil quickly under the flame. As 
soon as one side is browned, turn the other side to the 
flame. Serve plain, or with any desired sauce. 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES AND ENTREES 83 

PROTOSE FILLET 

V2. cup chopped cabbage i/4 cup diced turnips 

% cup diced carrots 1 teaspoon salt 

y^ cup cut celery 1 pound protose 

1 tablespoon chopped 1 cup Brown Sauce 

parsley I14 cups water 

% cup chopped onions 

Cut the carrots and turnips into % inch cubes ; chop the 
other vegetables rather finely and mix the vegetables with 
the seasonings ; spread thinly over the bottom of a baking 
dish. Remove the contents of a pound can of protose cut 
in halves lengthwise and each half in eight slices. Cover 
the vegetables with the sliced protose. Dilute the Brown 
Sauce with the water and pour over protose. Place in the 
oven and bake an hour to an hour and a half or until the 
sauce becomes quite thick. Serve some of the vegetables and 
the gravy with each slice of protose. 

NUT FILLET 

y^. can Protose *•% can Nuttolene 

% cup chopped onion 

Sauce made as follows: 

Sauce 

% cup strained tomato l^/o tablespoons butter 

3 tablespoons liquid cereal 1^ cups water 
coffee \y<2, tablespoons flour 

% teaspoon salt 

Cut the protose and nuttolene into % inch slices and 
each slice in half. Put the slices of protose in an oiled 
baking dish. Place on each slice of protose some of the 
onions. Press on top of this a slice of nuttolene. Make 



84 THE NEW COOKERY 

a sauce by cooking together the tomato, butter, flour, 
moistened with a little of the water, salt, cereal coffee, and 
water. Pour the sauce over the fillet, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven about an hour. 

FILLET OF NUT MEAT 

] can protose ll^ tablespoons butter 

^ cup strained tomato I14 tablespoons flour 

3 tablespoons liquid cereal 1^/4 cups water 

coffee % teaspoon salt 

Cut the protose into eight slices, and each slice into 
half. Put % the amount of protose in a baking dish. Pre- 
pare one-half of Dressing For Eoasts and spread over these. 
Next lay another layer of the slices to cover. Prepare a 
sauce of the remaining ingredients the same as for Nut 
Fillet; pour this over the protose, and bake in a moderate 
oven for about an hour. 

PANNED PROTOSE 

1/^ pound protose 1 cup strained tomato 

1 tablespoon butter 14 teaspoon salt 

Slice the protose in i/^ inch slices and arrange in a frying 
pan. Cover with the strained tomato, add the sa^c, the 
butter, and let simmer over the fire for % hour or more 
until the tomato becomes quite thick. 

NUT OR PROTOSE CUTLETS 

1 pound protose 2 cups milk 

1 cup corn flakes 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon salt 

Remove the contents of a pound can of protose, cut in 
halves and each half into eight slices. Sprinkle the bottom 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES AND ENTREES 85 

of the dripping pan with one-half of the com flakes, place 
the protose on this and sprinkle over it the remainder of the 
com flakes. Beat the eggs until the whites and yolks are 
well blended. Add the milk and the salt, pour this over the 
protose and bake in a slow oven until it is set. 

BRAISED PROTOSE 

1 pint Brown Sauce 1 cup vegetable broth 

2 pounds protose 

Prepare the vegetable broth as follows : 
1 small carrot 1 large onion 

1 small turnip % teaspoon celery salt 

1 small potato 1^^ pints water 

% teaspoon salt 

Chop the vegetables very flne and put to cook in cold 
water. Add the salt, and celery salt and cook uncovered 
until the vegetables are tender; strain and use the liquid 
for the broth. There should be one cup of the broth. If 
necessary, add water sufficient to make up this amount. Re- 
move the protose from the cans, cut in halves lengthwise, 
and each half into eight slices. Arrange the protose with 
the slices slightly overlapping in a baking dish. Dilute the 
Brown Sauce with the vegetable broth and pour this over 
the protose. Bake in a moderate oven one hour or more, 
basting frequently. 

NUT AND APPLE PIE 

1 pound protose 5 cups quartered and cored 

14 cup sugar . apples 

Juice 2 lemons 
Butter a pan or baking dish and place the apples therein. 
Sprinkle with the sugar and the lemon juice. Bake until 
they begin to get tender. Slice the protose into half inch 



86 THE NEW COOKERY 

slices and cut each slice in halves. Place on top of the 
apples and cover with plain pastry. Bake in a quick oven 
until nicely browned. 

NORMANDY OR MOCK VEAL LOAF 

% pound protose 1 tablespoon butter 

1 tablespoon grated onion 1 teaspoon celery salt 

1 teaspoon salt 1 egg 

6 whole wheat wafers 1 cup hot cream or milk 

Mix the protose, add the butter, grated onion, salt, 
celery salt, and the beaten egg. Roll the crackers fine and 
add to the mixture, then add the hot cream. If milk is 
used, add two additional tablespoons butter, and use scant 
measure of milk. Turn into a buttered individual bread 
tin or oblong pan and bake 20 to 30 minutes in a hot oven. 
This may be served intact by turning upon a hot platter 
and covering with a damp cloth for a few minutes. The 
loaf will come out whole and may be sliced and served with 
any preferred sauce. 

Other crackers may be used but a larger number will be 
required. 

CHIPPED PROTOSE IN CREAM 

1 pound protose li/^ cups White Sauce or Cream Sauce 

Remove the protose from the can and with a paring 
knife chip the protose into thin irregular-shaped pieces. 
Pour over this Thin White Sauce or Cream Sauce and cook 
slowly over the fire 15 to 20 minutes or place in the oven to 
bake. 

NUT AND RICE CROQUETTES 

1 cup steamed or boiled rice 1 egg 

% pound protose Grated onion 

14 cup chopped celery Celery salt 

1 tablespoon tomato Salt 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES AND ENTREES 87 

Mince the protose. Add the celery, strained tomato and 
beaten egg to the cooked rice. Add the seasonings and shape 
into croquettes. Bake in a quick oven until nicely browned. 

PROTOSE HASH WITH RICE AND PEAS 

2 cups diced boiled potatoes 2 tablespoons butter 
2 cups chopped protose 2 tablespoons hot water 

1 tablespoon grated onion % cup rice 
1^ teaspoons salt 1 pint can peas 

1 teaspoon sugar 

Put the hot water and the butter in a sauce pan until 
heated. Then add one teaspoon salt, the grated onion, cold 
boiled potatoes, and the minced protose. Cover and cook 
until heated thoroughly. Boil the rice in boiling salted 
water. (See Boiled Rice.) Drain and dry in an open oven. 
Open the pint can of peas or use one pint of freshly cooked 
peas. Drain and pour over them a dash of cold water. 
Drain again and season with one teaspoonful sugar and one- 
half teaspoonful salt. Heat thoroughly. Serve the hash in 
the center of a hot platter and surround with a border of 
peas and rice, the rice being next to the hash and the peas 
near the edge of the platter. 

NUT SAUSAGE 

1 cup pine nuts 

3 tablespoons gluten flour or browned flour 

% cup zwieback crumbs or toasted bread crumbs 

y^ pound protose 

2 tablespoons Japanese soy or 4 teaspoons Savora 
1 tablespoon butter 

1 tablespoon grated onion 

Ys pound Yogurt or Neuf chatel Cheese 

1 egg 



88 THE NEW COOKERY 

% cup strained tomatoes evaporated to 14 cup 

1 tablespoon brown sugar 

1 teaspoon sage 

1/4 teaspoon thyme 

% teaspoon summer savory 

^ teaspoon nutmeg 

EoU the pine nuts, mince the protose, and add to the 
pine nuts. Then add all other ingredients and form into 
two-inch rolls and bake. Serve with the following sauce : 

% cup Brown Sauce 

14 cup condensed tomato or % cup strained tomatoes 
evaporated to % cup 
1 teaspoon sugar y^ cup cream 

4 olives ^ cup pine nuts 

Roll the pine nuts, mix with the other ingredients. Heat 
and serve. 

NUT AND VEGETABLE STEW 

3 cups diced potatoes y^ cup chopped onion 

1^2 cups diced carrots 3 pints water 

V2 cup diced turnips 1 teaspoon salt 

V2 cup diced parsnips 1-pound can protose 

%-pound can nuttolene 
Clean, scrape and dice the vegetables. Cook in 3 pints 
water until tender. Then add diced protose and nuttolene. 
Serve when well heated through. 

PROTOSE STEAK WITH ONIONS 

1 pound protose 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup grated onion 1 cup Brown Sauce 

1 tablespoon melted butter I/2 cup water 

Remove the protose from the can, cut in half length- 
wise, and make 6 or 8 slices of each half. Arrange these on 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES AND ENTREES 89 

the bottom of a buttered pan. Mix the melted butter and 
salt with the grated onion. On top of each slice of protose 
put a spoonful of the grated onion. Dilute the Brown 
Sauce with the water and pour gently around the protose, 
taking care not to disturb the onions. Place in the oven and 
bake slowly for about % hour to an hour, or until the onions 
are perfectly tender. 

BROILED NUTTOLENE 

Eemove the end of a can of nuttolene so the contents 
will come out whole. Cut nuttolene into % inch slices the 
round way, then cut each slice into halves. Serve a spoon- 
ful of Brown, Chili, Cranberry, Piquant or any preferred 
sauce with each slice. 

NUTTOLENE WITH MINT SAUCE 

1-pound can nuttolene 1 cup water 

1 heaping teaspoon spear- % cup sugar 
mint Ys cup lemon juice 

Steep the mint for about 10 minutes in V^ cup boiling 
water. To i/^ cup of water add the sugar and boil for a 
few minutes. Add the strained lemon juice and the strained 
liquid from the mint. 

Serve with sliced nuttolene, either hot or cold. If served 
hot, broil the sliced nuttolene until nicely browned, and 
serve with the hot mint sauce. 

NUTTOLENE CUTLETS 

Prepare the same as Nut Cutlets, using Nuttolene in- 
stead of Protose. 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES AND ENTREES 83 

PROTOSE FILLET 

y^ cup chopped cabbage i^ cup diced turnips 

1^ cup diced carrots 1 teaspoon salt 

14 cup cut celery 1 pound protose 

1 tablespoon chopped 1 cup Brown Sauce 

parsley \y^ cups water 

V^ cup chopped onions 

Cut the carrots and turnips into y^ ii^ch cubes ; chop the 
other vegetables rather finely and mix the vegetables with 
the seasonings; spread thinly over the bottom of a baking 
dish. Remove the contents of a pound can of protose cut 
in halves lengthwise and each half in eight slices. Cover 
the vegetables with the sliced protose. Dilute the Brown 
Sauce with the water and pour over protose. Place in the 
oven and bake an hour to an hour and a half or until the 
sauce becomes quite thick. Serve some of the vegetables and 
the gravy with each slice of protose. 

NUT FILLET 

1/^ can Protose ^% can Nuttolene 

% cup chopped onion 

Sauce made as follows: 

Sauce 

% cup strained tomato l^j tablespoons butter 

3 tablespoons liquid cereal 1^ cups water 
coffee 114 tablespoons flour 

% teaspoon salt 

Cut the protose and nuttolene into % inch slices and 
each slice in half. Put the slices of protose in an oiled 
baking dish. Place on each slice of protose some of the 
onions. Press on top of this a slice of nuttolene. Make 



92 THE NEW COOKERY 

nuttolene to a nice brown. Crush the pine nuts slightly, by- 
rolling them with a rolling pin. Add sage, salt, and celery 
salt, also the cold water. Soak the Vegetable Gelatine in 
warm water 20 minutes. Drain and put to cook in the 
boiling water. Let boil eight to ten minutes and strain into 
the mixture. Pour into individual bread tins, previously 
wet with cold water, and set aside to solidify. When ready 
to serve, turn out upon a platter and cut in thin slices. 
Garnish with parsley and slices of hard boiled egg, 

KICE A LA CAROLINA 

1 medium sized potato 

6 tablespoons butter 

1 tablespoon grated onion (or 1 teaspoon onion salt) 

1 teaspoon salt 
Ys teaspoon sage 
1/2 pound protose 
^2 cup rice 

1% quarts water 

1% cup tomato condensed to Yo cup 

2 hard boiled egg yolks 
% cup cream 

Peel and cut the potato into long narrow strips or dices. 
Boil until tender, but not quite dry. Add the onion, salt, 
sage, and 2 tablespoons butter. Put the potatoes in the 
bottom of a baking dish ; then spread a layer of the protose 
diced. Boil the rice in 1% quarts water for 20 minutes, 
drain, then set in the oven for 5 minutes. When dry, add 
the condensed tomato and 4 tablespoons of butter, and 
spread the rice over the layer of protose. Put the egg 
yolks through a colander, and sprinkle over the top of the 
rice. Moisten the top with the cream, and bake in a quick 
oven. 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES AND ENTREES 93 

NUT MEAT LOAF 

1 pound protose 1 egg 

1 pound nuttolene % cup water 

2 tablespoons lemon juice i^ teaspoon salt 
1 tablespoon grated onion i/^ teaspoon sage 

1 teaspoon salt % teaspoon celery salt 

1 pint stale bread crumbs 

Mince the protose and nuttolene and add the lemon juice, 
grated onion and salt. Make a dressing of the remaining 
ingredients. To make the dressing, pour the cold water 
over the stale bread crumbs and let stand a few minutes. 
Squeeze the crumbs to free them from any excess of water 
and add the seasonings. Beat the egg and add to the bread 
mixture. 

Spread one-half the protose mixture in the bottom of a 
well buttered bread pan, add the dressing, and lastly the 
remainder of the protose mixture on top. Moisten the top 
slightly with a little cream, then place in a moderate oven 
and bake about 30 minutes. When well browned, remove 
from the oven, turn upside down on a platter and cover with 
a moist cloth. When loosened, remove the pan. Garnish 
the loaf with parsley and serve with Creole Sauce. 

VEGETARIAN HAM 

1 pound nuttolene y^ pound protose 

4 teaspoons Savora 1 tablespoon onion juice 

1/^ teaspoon salt % box Vegetable Gelatin.'^ 

3 tablespoons butter 1 cup boiling water 

Mix % pound of the nuttolene with 2 tablespoons but- 
ter; set this aside to be used later. To prepare the Vege- 
table Gelatine see General Dirctions for the Use of Vege- 
table Gelatine. Cook in the boiling water. Mince the pro- 



94 THE NEW COOKERY 

9 

tose and mix with all of the other ingredients. Set on ice 
and when cold, cover with the nuttolene and butter; cut 
in slices and serve with a garnish of parsley, and if de- 
sired, with sliced, hard-boiled Q^g yolks. 

NUT PATTIES 

1 pound can protose 1 tablespoon grated onion 

1 pound can nuttolene 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Remove the nuttolene and the protose from the cans and 
mash together with a fork. Mix with the lemon juice and 
the grated onion, and form into little round cakes or pat- 
ties. Place in an oiled pan and bake until nicely browned. 
Serve plain or with Tomato Sauce, Chili Sauce, or any pre- 
ferred dressing. 

NUT CHOPS 

2 tablespoons peanut butter 1 Qgg and cracker crumbs 
6 tablespoons cream 6 slices bread 

Trim all crusts off the bread; spread the bread with 
peanut butter, cut into three oblong pieces; beat the ^gg 
and add the cream. Dip the bread into the egg and cream, 
then into cracker crumbs. Place in an oiled pan and bake 
in a hot oven until brown. 

PINE NUT ROAST 

% cup pine nuts (Pig- 1 egg 

nolias) i/4 teaspoon salt 

11/2 cups bread crumbs % teaspoon sage 

% teaspoon Savora I/2 teaspoon summer savory 

1 tablespoon hot water % teaspoon thyme 

1/2 tablespoon grated onion 

Roast the pine nuts slightly in the oven ; roll but not too 
finely ; dissolve the savora in the hot water, soak the bread 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES AND ENTREES 95 

crumbs in a little cold water, the amount varying with the 
dryness of the bread. Turn oflf the water and squeeze the 
bread crumbs quite dry. Add the beaten egg and the dis- 
solved savora, also the other seasonings; then stir in the 
pine nuts. Turn all into an oiled bread tin and bake in a 
moderate oven about 2Q minutes. Serve with any preferred 
sauce. 

PEANUT ROAST 

1 quart slightly toasted 2 teaspoons salt 
bread crumbs 2 tablespoons sage 

2 cups peanut butter 1 tablespoon summer savory 
2 medium-sized onions 2 cups mashed potatoes 

1 cup milk 4 eggs 

Prepare the bread crumbs by rubbing pieces of stale 
bread together, thus making fine, loose crumbs. Dry these 
out in a small oven and toast only slightly. Mix peanut 
butter with the milk, adding only a small portion at a time, 
and mixing thoroughly before adding more. "When all of 
the milk has been added, beat the eggs and add to the pea- 
nut butter. Stir in the crumbs, the finely chopped or grated 
onion, the hot mashed potatoes and the seasonings. Turn 
into a well oiled bread tin and bake one hour. To remove 
from the bread tin, turn upside doi^Ti on a platter with a 
moist cloth over the tin. Let this remain five minutes or 
more, then loosen with a knife and turn out upon 
the platter. Garnish with parsley and moulds of cranberry 
jelly. 

WALNUT ROAST 

2 eggs % cup cream 
11/2 cups milk 1 teaspoon salt 

11/4 cups granola or li/^ cups toasted bread crumbs 

1 cup walnuts, finely chopped or ground 

2 teaspoons grated onion, if desired 



96 THE NEW COOKERY 

Beat the eggs until light, add milk and cream and the 
granola. Let stand 20 minutes. Add the other ingredients, 
turn into a buttered bread tin and bake in a moderate oven 
about 30 minutes. Serve with any preferred sauce. 

CEREAL ROAST 

2 eggs lYs cups granola (or 1 cup 
11/2 cups milk fine toasted crumbs) 

% cup nut meal or finely 1 teaspoon salt 

chopped nuts 1 tablespoon grated onion 

1 cup chopped celery (or 1 teaspoon onion salt) 

2 tablespoons butter 

Beat the eggs, add milk and butter, nut meal, salt, 
granola, onion, and celery. Let stand twenty minutes. 
Bake in an oiled tin about thirty minutes or until well 
browned. To remove turn upside down on a platter and 
cover with a cloth wrung out of cold water. Let stand a 
few minutes or until loosened from the pan. Garnish with 
parsley and serve with parsley or cream sauce. 

CHESTNUT ROAST 

IY2 cups chopped, shelled % cup milk 

chestnuts 2 eggs 

3 cups stale bread crumbs 1 teaspoon salt 
Vo cup cream 1 teaspoon sage 

1 teaspoon grated onion 

To prepare the chestnuts boil 10 minutes ; while still hot 
remove the shell and the inner skin with a sharp paring 
knife. Chop but not too finely. To prepare the bread 
crumbs use stale bread and rub the edges of two pieces to- 
gether, thus producing fine crumbs. Beat the eggs slightly, 
add the milk and cream, the chopped chestnuts and the 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES AND ENTREES 97 

seasonings ; fold in the bread crumbs at the very last. Turn 
into an oiled bread tin and bake in a moderate oven about 
20 minutes. 

CHESTNUT PIE 

1 quart of shelled chestnuts li^ pints White Sauce 
% pint can of mushrooms Biscuit crust 

To shell the chestnuts place them in boiling water and 
boil 10 minutes. While hot remove the shell and inner 
skin with a sharp paring knife. Drain the liquid from the 
mushrooms and cut the latter into small pieces. Heat mush- 
rooms in a tablespoon of butter in a double boiler ; arrange 
the chestnuts and mushrooms in layers in a baking dish and 
pour over them the White Sauce. Roll biscuit dough about 
14 inch thick and cover the chestnuts. Make several open- 
ings in the top of the crust. Bake in a quick oven until 
nicely browned. 

CREAMED CHESTNUTS 

1 quart Italian chestnuts 1 cup white sauce 

Plunge the chestnuts into boiling water and let boil for 
ten minutes. With a sharp paring knife remove both the 
outer and the inner skin. Prepare one cup of White Sauce 
and add the cooked chestnuts, also one-half teaspoon salt. 
Let cook a few minutes and serve. 

CHESTNUTS WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

Prepare the chestnuts as for Creamed Chestnuts and 
serve with Tomato Sauce instead of White Sauce. 

BAKED BEANS 
1 pint white beans 2 tablespoons brown sugar 

1 tablespoon malt honey or 3 pints boiling water 
molasses 2 teaspoons salt 

1/4 cup butter 



98 THE NEW COOKERY 

Soak th€ beans over night in cold water, then put to cook 
in cold water, and parboil for ten minutes. Drain oflE this 
liquid and add 3 pints boiling water. Cook about 2 hours or 

m 

until the beans begin to break open. Then add the season- 
ings, and turn into a bean pot or baking dish (covered) and 
bake in a slow oven 4 or 5 hours, adding water if necessary 
during the baking process. 

Kemove cover a half hour before finished baking to 
allow beans to brown nicely. 

BAKED LIMA BEANS 

1 quart lima beans (dry) 1^2 tablespoons salt 
y^ cup butter 3 cups milk 

Soak the beans over night and cook in water until 
tender. Drain, put in a baking dish, and add butter, milk, 
and salt. Bake 1% hours slowly. 

LIMA BEAN LOAF 

1 cup dried lima beans 2l^ tablespoons butter 

21/2 cups stale bread crumbs 1% teaspoons salt 
1 tablespoon chopped pars- 14 tablespoon powdered 
ley sage 

3 eggs 

Put the beans to soak over night, or for a few hours. 
Drain and put to cook in boiling water. Let cook slowly 
until tender, but not soft enough to lose their shape. Drain 
and shake over the fire to dry. Melt the butter and add the 
bread crumbs, stirring while doing so. Add the chopped 
parsley, salt and sage. Beat the eggs and mix with the 
beans. Fold in the buttered crumbs, turn into a buttered 
loaf pan and bake until nicely browned. 



( 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES AND ENTREES C9 

BEAN CROQUETTES 

2 cups stewed or baked 2 tablespoons butter 
beans ' 3 tablespoons strained to- 

3 eups com flakes II/2 teaspoons salt mato 

Soak one cup of beans in cold water over night or for 
several hours, then put to cook in 3 or 4 pints of water and 
cook until tender; when cooked down quite dry, add the 
butter, straiued tomato, and salt if desired. Lastly fold in 
the com flakes (the quantity of flakes will depend upon the 
dryness of the beans) and form into croquettes. When 
shaped, place in a hot oven and bake until nicely browned. 

BEAN SOUFFLE 

1 pint beau pulp I/2 teaspoon celery salt 

4 ^^.^ yolks y^ teaspoon onion salt 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 1 teaspoon salt 

4 ^^^, whites 
To prepare the bean pulp press stewed or baked beans 
through the colander. To the bean pulp add the lemon 
juice and seasonings. Beat the ^^'g yolks until light and 
lemon colored and add to the bean pulp. Beat the whites 
until stiff and fold into the pulp. Turn into an oiled bak- 
ing dish or into Ramekin dishes. Surround with hot water 
and bake in a moderate oven twenty-five to thirty minutos. 
Serve at once. 

SAVORY ROAST OR MOCK TURKEY 

2 cups lentil, bean, or peas 2 teaspoons sage 
puree 1 cup strained tomato 

2 eggs 2 cups nut meal or finely 
% cup granola or toasted chopped nuts 

bread crumbs 14 cup cream 

% cup browned flour Juice of a medium sized 

2 teaspoons celery salt 1 teaspoon salt [onion 



100 THE NEW COOKERY 

Cook the legumes (either lentils, peas, or beans), until 
quite tender and dry. Make into a puree by putting 
through a colander. Beat the egg slightly and add the 
other ingredients in the order given. Then bake in a loaf 
in a hot oven 20 to 30 minutes, or until nicely browned. 
Serve with Cream Sauce or Brown Sauce. 

If desired this mixture may be shaped with a paring 
knife or spatula to represent a fowl. 

PEAS PATTIES 

1 cup split or Scotch peas ^^ teaspoon salt 

(dry) 1 cup bread crumbs 

3 pints water 1 egg 

4 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon onion 

Put the peas to soak over night, cook in 3 pints of water. 
After having been rubbed through the colander, thefe 
should be about 2 cups of rather dry puree. Stir the beaten 
eggs, salt, onion, and butter into the puree ; add also about 
a cup of bread crumbs, or enough to absorb the moisture. 
Shape into round cakes, place on an oiled tin, and bake in a 
quick oven. Brush the tops of the patties with milk several 
times while baking. Serve with white sauce. 

BAKED LENTILS 

1 pint lentils I/2 tablespoon mint 

2 quarts cold water 1 tablespoon thyme 

1 teaspoon lemon juice 2 tablespoons summer sa- 

2 small onions vory 

4 whole cloves 1 teaspoon sage 

1% teaspoons salt 4 tablespoons chopped 

3 tablespoons butter parsley 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES AND ENTREES 101 

Wash the lentils, and soak several hours. Cook the 
lentils with the herbs, onions, and cloves tied in a bag, until 
the water is absorbed and the lentils are soft, but retain 
their shape. Then remove the bag of seasonings, add three 
tablespoons butter and the salt, and put the lentils into a 
buttered dish. Bake a half hour in the oven. Garnij^h 
with parsley and serve. 

LENTIL AND POTATO LOAF 

1% cups lentil puree 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter % teaspoon sage 

% cup cream 2 cups riced potato 

1 tablespoon butter 

To prepare the lentil puree put one cup of raw lentils 
to soak over night, if possible. Then cook in boiling water 
until tender, which will usually require an hour or more. 
When almost done, allow the water to evaporate until the 
lentils are quite dry. Put them through a colander to 
form the puree. Then mix with the puree the butter, cream, 
salt and sage. To prepare the potatoes, peel and cook two 
or three medium sized potatoes in boiling salted water until 
tender. Drain and dry by shaking gently over the flame. 
Force through a ricer or colander, season with butter, and 
if necessary, additional salt. Place the lentil mixture in 
the bottom of a buttered baking dish or pan and on top of 
this place a layer of the mashed potato. Brush the top with 
a little cream or melted butter and bake until nicely 
browned. 

HOMINY CROQUETTES 

1 quart hominy 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup milk 2 teaspoons salt 

1 tablespoon flour V^ to 1 cup bread crumbs 

1 ^^g 



102 THE NEW COOKERY 

Drain the hominy and put through a food chopper, or 
mash. Make a white sauce of the butter, flour and salt and 
pour slowly over the beaten egg. Mix this with the hominy 
and add bread crumbs sufficient to form into croquettes. 
Then have ready some dried bread crumbs and one beaten 
egg to which 2 tablespoons milk or water have been added. 
Dip the croquettes first into the bread crumbs, then into the 
beaten egg, and lastly into the bread crumbs again. Place 
in a buttered pan and bake in a hot oven until nicely 
browned. 

CORN ROAST 

1 cup com 11/^ teaspoons grated onion 

14 cup cream 2 eggs 

% cup milk 1 teaspoon salt 

114 cups granola or 1^^ cups toasted bread crumbs 

Beat eggs slightly ; add the milk, and cream, the com, 
salt, and granola. Let stand 15 to 20 minutes. Turn into a 
buttered pan, bake in a moderate oven 30 to 40 minutes. 
Serve with Cream Sauce or White Sauce. 

APPLE FRITTERS 

1 egg 14 cup powdered sugar 

1/2 cup flour 40 minims hydrochloric 
1 cup diced apples acid (C. P.) 

4 tablespoons butter % teaspoon soda 

V2 cup milk 14 teaspoon salt 

(This amount of soda and hydrochloric acid is equiva- 
lent to 2 teaspoons of baking powder.) 

Beat the egg slightly, add milk, salt and hydrochloric 
acid. Sift the flour and soda together and add to the milk 
and egg. Add the melted butter, and fold in the diced 
apples. Bake in a shallow pan. Fill the pan about one- 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES AND ENTREES 103 

half to three fourths of an inch deep with the batter. When 
ready to remove from the oven, brush the top with melted 
butter, and dredge with powdered sugar. Cut into squares 
and serve. 

PRUNE FRITTERS 

Wash in boiling water 1 cup dried prunes. Soak in cold 
water over night. Remove the stones and cut into quarters. 
Prepare a batter the same as for Apple Fritters. Fold in 
the prunes and bake same as for Apple Fritters. 

BANANA FRITTERS 

Prepare a batter the same as for Apple Fritters. Use 
one cup of sliced bananas, instead of the apples. Bak3 the 
same as for Apple Fritters. 

RICE PATTIES 

1 cup rice 2 eggs 

2 cups water 2 tablespoons butter 

1 teaspoon salt i/4 cup dry bread crumbs 

Cook the rice in 2 cups of water to which salt has been 
added, in a double boiler for 1 hour. (See Steamed Rice.) 
Stir in the butter and eggs. When the rice has cooled 
slightly, mold into patties. Roll in the dry bread crumbs 
and bake until nicely browned. 



(5) 



CHAPTER XI 

MACARONI AND ITALIAN 

PASTES 

TO COOK MACAEONI 

WIPE the macaroni with a dry cloth and break into one- 
inch lengths. To each cup of macaroni allow 8 
cups of water and two teaspoons salt. Drop the macaroni 
into the boiling water and let boil actively for from 20 
minutes to one hour or more. It is important that the 
macaroni be kept in motion while cooking to prevent stick- 
ing. The macaroni should be soft enough that when pressed 
between the thumb and finger it will crush easily. When 
done turn into a colander and pour over it a dash of cold 
water. It is then ready for any preferred dressing. 

TO KNOW GOOD MACARONI \ 

The best quality of macaroni is of a creamy color, is 
elastic and does not split when broken into small piec§s. 
The French and Italian brands of macaroni are superior to 
most American brands. 

EGG MACARONI 

1 cup milk 2 eggs 

V2 cup cream 1 teaspoon salt 

1 pint raw macaroni, broken into 1-inch lengths 

Cook the macaroni in boiling salted water according to 
directions given above. 

104 



MACARONI AND ITALIAN PASTES 105 

Beat the eggs slightly and add the cream, milk and salt. 
Pour this over the macaroni and bake in a moderate oven 
until set. 

JVIACARONI AU GRATIN 

ll^ cups macaroni broken 1 cup bread crumbs 
into 1 inch lengths 3 tablespoons butter 

1 cup grated Yogurt or 3 tablespoons flour 

Neuf chatel cheese 2 cups milk 

1 teaspoon salt 

Cook macaroni in boiling salted water until tender; 
drain and pour over it a dash of cold water. Make a White 
Sauce of the last four ingredients and mix with the mac- 
aroni. Stir the grated cheese into the mixture. Turn into 
a baking, dish, cover with the bread crumbs and bake in a 
moderate oven until nicely browned. If desired, buttered 
crumbs may be used. 

MACARONI WITH CORN 

1 cup raw macaroni 1 teaspoon sugar 

1 cup com 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup milk 1/^ teaspoon salt 

1 ^SS 
Cook the macaroni, which has been broken into one- 
inch lengths, in boiling salted water, drain and put into a 
baking dish. To the beaten egg add com, milk and salt and 
pour over the macaroni. Set the baking dish in a pan of 
hot water. Bake in a moderate oven 20 minutes, or until set. 

MACARONI WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

2 quarts boiling water 1 teaspoon salt 

% cup macaroni broken into one-inch lengths 
Cook the macaroni until soft. 



106 THE NEW COOKERY 

Prepare a Tomato Sauce as follows: 

Tomato Sauce 

l^ can tomatoes or i^ cup 1 tablespoon chopped onion 

condensed tomato 2 tablespoons butter 

1 cup water 2 tablespoons flour 

% teaspoon salt 

Cook tomato, onion and water for 25 minutes, then 
strain. Melt the butter, add the flour and seasoning, and 
slowly the strained tomatoes. Cook until the starchy taste 
is gone, then add the macaroni and cook in the sauce 10 
minutes. Same sauce may be served with rice. 

If condensed tomato is used, add an additional cup of 
water. 

MACARONI AND KIDNEY BEANS 

1 cup macaroni i/2 pi^^* cream tomato sauce 

1 teaspoon salt 1 can or 1 pint cooked kid- 

1 quart water ney beans 

Break the macaroni into one-inch pieces. Put to cook 
in boiling salted water. Cook until the macaroni is soft 
enough to crush between the fingers, which will require 
from twenty minutes to one hour. When the macaroni is 
soft, drain and pour a cupful of cold water through it. 
Prepare a Cream Tomato Sauce as follows: 

2 tablespoons flour % cup milk 

2 tablespoons butter Yo teaspoon salt 

1/4 cup strained tomato 

Heat the milk to scalding, rub the butter and flour to- 
gether, pour slowly into it the hot milk. Set over the flame 
and cook for five minutes. Add the strained tomato and 
turn into this sauce the thoroughly drained macaroni and 



MacBroni with Kidney Beu». Savory Roul or Mock Turkey 



MACARONI AND ITALIAN PASTES 107 

the can of cooked kidney beans. If desired, more salt may 
be added. When these ingredients are thoroughly heated, 
drain into a vegetable dish and serve. This dish should be 
stirred very carefully, as the beans mash easily. 

Two teaspoons of Savora added to the sauce improves 
the flavor. 

MACARONI WITH EGGS 

1 cup macaroni broken into inch lengths 

3 hard boiled eggs 

11/^ cups White Sauce 

1 teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons toasted bread crumbs 

Cook the macaroni in two quarts of boiling, salted water. 
Boil rapidly until soft enough that it will crush easily be- 
tween the fingers. Turn into a colander and allow cold 
water to run over it. Boil the eggs according to directions 
for hard boiled eggs. Arrange the macaroni and sliced 
eggs in layers in a baking pan or dish having the top and 
bottom layers of macaroni. Pour over it all the White 
Sauce and on top sprinkle the toasted bread crumbs. Bake 
in a moderate oven about 20 minutes. 

MACARONI WITH GREEN PEAS 

1/2 cup cream % cup macaroni broken 

% teaspoon salt into one inch lengths 

1 cup green peas 

Cook macaroni in boiling salted water. Drain; pour 
over it a dash of cold water. Drain again and add to it 
the cream and the salt. Add the green peas, freshly cooked 
or canned, from which the liquid has been drained. Heat 
and cook five to ten minutes over the flame. 



108 THE NEW COOKERY 

SPAGHETTI MILANAISE 

1 cup spaghetti 1% cups milk 

y<2. cup carrots 3 tablespoons butter 

% cup turnips 2 tablespoons flour 

1/2 cup cabbage 1 teaspoon salt 

1/2 cup onions 3 ^^.'g yolks 
1/2 cup celery 

Place the flour on a pie tin in a hot oven until it as- 
sumes a golden brown color. Mix thoroughly with the 
butter, then pour the milk (hot) over the butter and flour, 
stirring constantly. Add the salt and cook over the flame 
5 minutes. 

Put the vegetables on to cook in boiling, salted water and 
cook uncovered an hour or more until tender. Drain. 

Cook the spaghetti the same as macaroni. Combine with 
the cooked vegetables, add the chopped yolks of three hard 
boiled eggs, and 1 teaspoon of salt. Pour over all the sauce 
and toss lightly together. Bake in a moderate oven 30 
minutes. Macaroni may be used if preferred. 



CHAPTER XII 

EGGS 

The egg is chiefly protein, though the egg yolk contains 
considerable fat. The egg white is almost pure albumin 
diluted, of course, with water. 

The egg is valuable for its mineral salts, especially for 
the iron, phosphorus and lime. These mineral substances 
are found in the organic form in which they are more easily 
absorbed than in the inorganic form. 

The tendency of eggs toward decomposition and putre- 
faction leads many prominent physicians to withhold them 
from their patients. 

The digestibility of the egg depends upon the cooking. 
Egg white and egg yolk cook at different temperatures. 
Egg white begins to cook at 134° P. Egg yolk begins to 
cook at 122° F. The white is partly soluble in cold water. 
The best temperature for cooking is 160° to 180°. A 
higher temperature hardens the albumin. 

POACHED EGGS 

Heat the water to boiling; break the eggs, one at a 
time, into a dish ; turn the heat off from under the water 
and drop the eggs in at once. Cover and let stand from 3 
to 5 minutes. 

SOFT BOILED EGGS 

First Method — ^AUow one cup of boiling water for each 
egg. Have the water boiling in a sauce pan. Place the 

109 



110 THE NEW COOKERY 

eggs therein. Cover immediately and remove from the 
fire. Let stand on the back of the range or over the gas 
plate with the fire turned low for from 5 to 10 minutes, 
according to the degree of firmness desired. 

Second Method — Allow one cup of water to each egg. 
Put the eggs on in cold water and bring them slowly to the 
boiling point. Remove the eggs at once. 

HARD BOILED EGGS 

First Method — ^Allow one cup of water for each egg. 
Put the eggs to cook in cold water; allow them to come 
slowly to the boiling point, cover and turn oflf the heat. 
Let stand 20 to 30 minutes. 

Second Method — Pour boiling water over the eggs and 
let them stand on the back of the range 30 minutes. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS 

6 eggs l^ cup milk 

1 teaspoon salt 

Beat the eggs slightly, add the milk and salt ; turn into 
a double boiler and cook until thickened, stirring con- 
stantly. Serve at once. If desired, this may be served on 
toast. 

BAKED EGGS IN CREAM 

6 eggs 6 tablespoons cream 

salt 
Break the eggs into ramekin dishes or into a baking 
dish from which the eggs can be served. Sprinkle the eggs 
with salt and pour over them the cream. If a large dish is 
used, a little more cream will be needed. The cream should 
cover the eggs. Set the dish in hot water and place in a 
moderate oven. Bake slowly until a desired degree of hard- 



EGGS 111 

ness is reached. It will take about ten minutes to cook a 
medium hard egg. 

EGG TIMBALES 

5 eggs 1 2/3 cups milk 

1 teaspoon onion juice or 1 teaspoon salt 
minced parsley 

Heat the milk with the onion or parsley, add to the 
beaten egg, and turn into the timbale cups. Place in a pan 
containing hot water and bake in a slow oven until firm. 
Serve with tomato sauce or white sauce. 

EGGS IN CANAPES WITH CELERY SAUCE 

Prepare the canape by cutting slices of bread one inch 
thick. Trim the edges so as to leave oblong pieces about 
two inches by two and a half inches thick. Make a depres- 
sion in the center by removing some of the bread, leaving 
a margin of about one-third of an inch on all sides. Toast 
in a slow oven until nicely browned and crisp. Place a 
hard-boiled egg in each of the canapes. Serve with this 
any preferred sauce. The celery sauce combines nicely with 
the egg, 

SPANISH EGGS 

6 eggs 1 tablespoon lemon juice 
Vs cup stewed tomato or 2 dozen ripe olives 

2 tablespoons condensed 1 small onion 
tomato 1 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon celery salt 

Beat the eggs slightly; put the tomato through a col- 
ander and add to the beaten eggs; add the lemon juice, 
salt, celery salt, and the grated onion. Cut the olives from 
the stones and add to the mixture. Turn into a double 






112 THE NEW COOKERY 

boiler and cook until thickened, stirring constantly while 
cooking. This may be served on toast if desired. 

ALPINE EGGS 

Butter a shallow pan or baking dish and cover the bot- 
tom with 1/4 iiich of Yogurt or Neuf chatel cheese. Break 
over this the desired number of eggs. Sprinkle with salt 
and place a small piece of butter on each egg. Cover with 
a little grated cheese and chopped parsley. Bake in a 
moderate oven. 

ESCALLOPED EGGS 

« 

6 hard cooked eggs li^ cups milk 

Vs cup ripe olives 2 tablespoons butter 

2 cups bread crumbs 2 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon salt 

Cook the eggs by putting them on in cold water. When 
the boiling point is reached, cover and place over a simmer- 
ing flame for about 20 minutes. Make a white sauce by 
rubbing together the flour and butter and y2 teaspoon o£ 
salt. Add a little of the warm milk slowly, then add the 
remainder. Cook the sauce in a double boiler 15 to 20 
minutes. Cut sufficient ripe olives from the stones to make 
Vs cup. 

Butter a baking dish, place in the bottom one-fourth of 
the bread crumbs, then over the crumbs slice thinly three of 
the hard cooked eggs ; add half of the chopped olives and 
half of the white sauce. Then spread another fourth of the 
bread crumbs, add the remainder of the egg, the olives and 
the white sauce. Finish by spreading the remaining half 
of the buttered crumbs on top. Bake 20 minutes in a 
moderate oven or until nicely browned. 



EGGS 113 

PUFF OMELET 

3 eggs l^ teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons milk or water 3 tablespoons bread crumbs 

Separate the whites and the yolks of the eggs ; beat the 
yolks until light and lemon colored ; soak the bread crumbs 
in the milk and fold into the beaten yolks. Beat the egg 
whites until stiff; add the salt and fold in the yolk mixture. 
The folding must be done with a quick, light movement. 
When the ingredients are blended, turn at once into a hot 
oiled pan, then turn the flame very low and move the pan 
gently over the heat. Whep risen sufficiently, place in the 
oven for just a moment ; fold crosswise of the pan at right 
angles to the handle ; grasp the handle with the left hand, 
with the thumb at the end of the handle and the fingers 
turned toward the body. Drop the omelet on the platter 
in the position desired. Garnish with parsley and serve at 
once. The bread crumbs may be omitted, if desired. 

Variation from the plain omelet may be made by spread- 
ing Chili Sauce, asparagus tips, or other finely chopped 
vegetables over one-half of the omelet before folding. 

FRENCH OMELET 

3 eggs 3 tablespoons milk or water 

% teaspoon salt 

Beat the eggs lightly, add the liquid and the salt ; turn 
into the hot buttered omelet pan, which must be perfectly 
clean and smooth. Set on the hot part of the range for a 
few minutes; draw the cooked portion toward the handle 
of the pan ; elevate the pan slightly by the handle, allow- 
ing the uncooked portion to run down to the front of the 
pan ; continue to draw back the cooked portion until all is 



114 THE NEW COOKERY 

cooked. When of a creamy consistency, fold as for the 
Puffy Omelet and serve at once. 

Variations may be made in the French Omelet the 
same as in the Puffy Omelet. 

EICE OMELET 

2 eggs 1 tablespoon butter 

y^ teaspoon salt l^ cup hot boiled rice 

Beat the eggs until light and add the salt and rice. The 
rice should be whole and separate, not mashed. Put the 
butter in an omelet pan, and when hot turn in the omelet 
mixture. Cook as a French omelet, drawing back with a 
fork or spatula the cooked portion, at the same time lifting 
the handle of the pah so that the uncooked portion runs 
down to the front of the pan. .Repeat this as often as 
necessary. When the omelet is cooked throughout and 
nicely browned on the bottom, free it from the bottom of 
the pan by means of a spatula or thin-bladed knife; be- 
ginning near the handle of the pan, roll the omelet toward 
the front of the pan, then turn it out upon the platter. If 
desired, garnish with parsley. This makes an economical 
and very delicious omelet. If preferred it may be prepared 
and baked as a puff omelet. 



CHAPTER XIII 

GRAVIES AND SAUCES 

BROWN SAUCE 

^ cup flour l^ cup strong cereal coffee 

y^ cup butter I/2 cup strained tomatoes or 

1% cups water 2 tablespoons condensed 

14 teaspoon salt tomato 

2 teaspoons Savora 

Rub the flour and butter together. Heat the liquids, 
but not to the boiling point. Add salt and strained tomato. 
Pour the hot liquids over the flour and butter, stirring 
meanwhile. Add Savora and let boil five minutes. 

WHITE SAUCE 

4 tablespoons butter 2 cups milk 

4 tablespoons flour 1 teaspoon salt 

Heat the milk in a double boiler, but do not let it reach 
the scalding point. Rub butter, flour and salt together 
until smooth, then slowly pour over them the hot milk. Stir 
until smooth and thickened. 

THIN WHITE SAUCE 

2 tablespoons butter 2 cups milk 

2 tablespoons flour 1 teaspoon salt 



Put together the same as White Sauce. 



115 



116 THE NEW COOKERY 

SAUCE FOR VEGETABLES 

3 tablespoons butter 1 cup liquid in which the 

3 tablespoons flour vegetable is cooked 
1 cup milk 1 teaspoon salt 

Put together as for White Sauce. Milk may be used 
instead of the liquid in which the vegetable is cooked, if 
desired. 

BECHAMEL SAUCE 

1 pint of milk 2 tablespoons chopped 

4 tablespoons butter onion 

4 tablespoons flour 2/3 cup chopped celery 

114 teaspoons salt 
Add the chopped celery and the onion to the milk and 
heat in a double boiler. Rub the flour and butter together 
and add the hot liquid slowly. Return to the double boiler 
and cook fifteen to twenty minutes. Add the salt just be- 
fore serving. 

EGG SAUCE 

1 pint White Sauce or Cream Sauce 

2 hard boiled egg yolks 

Put the hard boiled egg yolks through a sieve or fine 
colander. Add to the White Sauce or Cream Sauce. 

CREAM SAUCE 

y^ pint cream 1 teaspoon salt 

2/3 pint milk 4 tablespoons fiour 

Heat the milk and cream to scalding in a double boiler. 
Moisten the fiour with a little cold milk and add to the 
hot milk and cream, stirring meanwhile. Add salt. 

Thin Cream Sauce is made by using one-half the amount 
of flour. 



GRAVIES AND SAUCES 117 

CELERY SAUCE 

2 cups chopped celery 1 cup milk 

2 cups water I14 tablespoons butter 

y2 teaspoon salt 1% tablespoons flour 

Cook the celery in the water with the salt. When per- 
fectly tender and the water reduced about one-half, press 
it through a colander, add the milk, and reheat. Rub the 
butter and flour together and pour over it a little of the hot 
milk and celery, stirring meanwhile. Then turn it into the 
hot liquid and stir until thickened. 

CREAM TOMATO SAUCE 

2 cups milk 1 cup strained tomato or y^ 

6 tablespoons flour cup condensed tomato and 

6 tablespoons butter 2/3 cup water 

1 teaspoon salt 

Make a White Sauce of the milk, flour, and butter. Heat 
the strained, stewed tomato and add gradually to the White 
Sauce. Add the salt and serve at once. 

TOMATO SAUCE 

1^ cups strained, stewed 2 tablespoons butter 

tomato or ^ cup con- 2 tablespoons flour 

densed tomato and 1 cup 1 teaspoon salt 
water 

Heat the tomato. Rub the flour and butter together. 
Pour over this the hot but not boiling tomato, slowly stir- 
ring meanwhile. Let come to the boiling point and cook 
for five minutes directly over the flame. A little onion or 
celery salt may be added if desired. 



118 THE NEW COOKERY 

PIQUANT SAUCE 

4 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon sugar 

5 tablespoons browned flour 1 tablespoon onion 

1 pint protose broth 2 tablespoons chopped ripe 

3 tablespoons lemon juice olives 

Season with thyme and mint 

Prepare the Protose Broth by cooking 14 pound of pro- 
tose in 1 quart of water for one hour or more, allowing it to 
cook slowly. Then strain. 

Eub butter and flour together. Pour over it the hot 
protose broth, add seasoning, except lemon juice. Boil 4 
minutes. Strain and add remaining ingredients. 

CREOLE SAUCE 

14 cup flour 14 cup condensed tomato or 

1 teaspoon salt % cup strained tomato 
14 cup mushrooms 8 to 10 ripe olives 

l^ cup liquid cereal cofl'ee 1% cups water 

2 tablespoons chopped 14 cup butter 
onions 2 teaspoons Savora 

Cook the onion and butter in a double boiler ten to 
fifteen minutes. Prepare the cereal coffee by cooking two 
tablespoons of the dry cereal coffee in one cup of boiling 
water for 20 minutes. Keep covered while cooking. Add 
the water and strained tomatoes to the cereal coffee. Add 
the flour to the butter and onion, remove from the heat, 
then add slowly, stirring meanwhile, the hot liquids. Let 
boil 5 minutes, then add the seasonings, the mushrooms 
cut into small pieces, the olives cut from the stones, and 
cook for two or three minutes. 

If the mushrooms are fresh, they should be prepared by 
washing, removing the stem, scraping and cutting into small 



GRAVIES AND SAUCES 119 

pieces. Peel the caps and break in pieces. Cook slowly 
about 8 minutes in boiling salted water. This water should 
be used as a part of the liquid called for in the recipe. 

Mushrooms have practically no nutritive value but are 
prized for the flavor which they impart. 

MUSHEOOM SAUCE 

2 tablespoons chopped 2 tablespoons butter 

onion ^ cup mushrooms , 

Vs cup strained stewed to- 1 tablespoon Savora 
mato 1 teaspoon salt 

11/2 cups Bro^n Sauce 

Cook the onion and butter fifteen to twenty minutes in 
a double boiler. Add the tomato and the other seasonings. 
Chop the mushrooms and add, then stir in the Brown Sauce. 
Eeheat. Serve with entrees. 

DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE 

Vs or % cup butter 1 pint boiling water 

y^ cup flour 1 tablespoon chopped 

1 tablespoon lemon juice parsley 

% teaspoon salt 

Prepare as a white sauce. Add hard boiled eggs, 
chopped or with the whites sliced and the yolks pressed 
through a sieve. 

BROWN CREAM GRAVY 

% pound can protose 4 tablespoons flour 

4 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups milk 

Place the protose in a buttered pan. Mince finely and 
mix with the flour. Brown both together very slightly. 



120 THE NEW COOKERY 

Mix the butter with the flour and pour over this slowly the 
heated milk, stirring meanwhile. Let come to the boiling 
point. Cook in a double boiler about twenty minutes. Add 
salt and serve. 

HOLLAND AISE SAUCE 

V2 cup butter 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

2 egg yolks 14 teaspoon salt 

% cup boiling water 

Place egg yolks in the inner portion of a double boiler. 
Beat them slightly, add one-third of the butter, set in 
hot water and stir until the butter is melted, then add 
another one-third of the butter, beating while so doing. 
When his is melted add the remaining one-third, then 
the boiling water, slowly stirring while so doing. Cook one 
minute, add the salt and serve at once. This sauce may be 
served with entrees or vegefables. 

SAVORA CREAM SAUCE 

To the White Sauce recipe add 2 teaspoons of Savora 
and omit half the salt. 



CHAPTER XIV 

VEGETABLES 

THE class of foods known as vegetables vary very greatly 
both in composition and as to structure. Every part 
of a plant including root, tuber, bulb, stem, leaf, seed and 
fruit is represented in this group. 

From the group is excluded the seeds of the grass family, 
. or cereals, and the fruit of trees. 

Vegetables are characterized by a low nutritive value, 
though a few are comparatively high. With the exception 
of the legumes, which are sometimes given a special classi- 
fication on account of their very high nutritive value and 
high protein content, potatoes are the most nutritive. 

Vegetables are also characterized by a large amount of 
cellulose and by their richness in alkaline mineral salts. 

The cellulose is desirable because it gives the necessary 
bulk. Mineral matter is necessary for maintaining the 
alkalinity of the blood and for the repair of the bony 
structures. 

It is important that vegetables should be prepared and 
cooked in such a way as to conserve all available food ma- 
terial and mineral salts. 

The portion of the vegetable next to the skin contains 
the greater quantity of mineral matter, protein and fat, 
hence all thin skinned vegetables such as new potatoes, car- 
rots and vegetable oysters should be scraped. Other vege- 
tables should be pared as thinly as possible. 

When the liquid in which vegetables are cooked is 
drained off, it carries with it much that is valuable. As far 

121 



122 THE NEW COOKE^vY 

as possible this should be saved and used as the foundation 
for soups or sauces, or better still, cook the vegetable in a 
steamer, thus conserving the entire food value. 

Vegetables should be cooked only until tender. Many 
vegetables develop a strong and unpleasant flavor and are 
rendered less easily digested by over cooking. This is 
especially true of cabbage, cauliflower, etc. When over- 
cooked they also take on a reddish hue. 

Strongly flavored vegetables, such as onions, cabbage, 
turnips, should be cooked uncovered. 

All vegetables should go over the fire in hoUing water. 

Fresh succulent vegetables should always be put to cook 
in salted water. Old vegetables that have become somewhat 
tough should have the salt added a few minutes before the 
cooking is finished. 

Peas, beans and lentils should always be cooked in un- 
salted water, as the salt combines with the legumin, a form 
of protein, and forms an insoluble compound, thus making 
them very difficult to cook. Soft water should be used if 
possible. 

Old vegetables may be made much more tender by im- 
mersing an hour or more in cold water. 

Asparagus, lettuce and other succulent vegetables may 
be refreshed by standing in cold water. 

TO BOIL POTATOES 

Wash and scrape the potatoes with a vegetable brush. 
Pare very thinly and place in a pan of cold water. Make 
all as nearly of the same size as possible. When all are 
pared, put them into a sauce pan of boiling water. Let them 
boil until soft when pierced with a fork. Then add a 
cup of cold water, which will check the cooking on the 
outside while the heat already in the potato will finish 



VEGETABLES 123 

the cooking of the center. This makes the potatoes 
evenly cooked throughout. When they again reach the 
boiling point, if the potatoes are sufficiently cooked, drain 
off the water, dust with salt, and allow the potatoes to re- 
main over a low flame for a moment or so, shaking occasion- 
ally to more perfectly dry them. 

If preferred, the salt may be added to the water before 
cooking. The seasoning is more evenly distributed when 
added at the beginning. 

TO BAKE POTATOES 

Wash and scrub the potatoes with a vegetable brush 
until perfectly clean, dry with a cloth and bake in a moder- 
ate oven until they feel soft when pressed with the fingers. 
It will take about three-quarters of an hour unless the po- 
tatoes are small. When done, take each potato in a towel in 
the hand and press gently without breaking the skin until 
the whole potato feels soft, then the skin may be ruptured 
slightly and the potatoes sent to the table at once. Never 
pierce the potato with a fork to see if it is done, as this 
allows the steam which forms within the potato to escape, 
and the potato is not properly cooked. 

MASHED POTATOES 

1 quart riced potatoes i/^ cup milk 

1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon butter 

Boil the potatoes, drain and dry by shaking gently over 
a flame. Rice by forcing through a ricer or a colander or 
mash with a potato masher. Then add the seasonings and 
milk and beat until light. Serve with bits of butter dotted 
over the top or with white sauce. 



124 THE NEW COOKERY 

PARISIAN POTATOES 

1 quart steamed or boiled potatoes 
1 pint Brown Sauce 
Place potatoes in a dripping pan and cover with brown 
sauce. Put in oven and bake 15 to 20 minutes. 

POTATO CROQUETTES 

1 pint hot, diced potatoes y^ teaspoon celery salt 
% teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon finely chopped 

2 egg yolks parsley 
2 tablespoons butter 1 egg 

% teaspoon grated onion 2 tablespoons milk or water 

Toasted bread crumbs 
To the potatoes add butter, seasonings, and lastly the 
beaten egg yolks and beat thoroughly. Form the potatoes 
into croquettes of any desired shape. 

Beat the egg slightly, add the milk or water, dip the 
croquettes into toasted bread crumbs, then into the beaten 
egg, and again into the toasted bread crumbs. Bake in a 
hot oven 10 to 15 minutes, or until nicely browned. 

POTATO CAKES 

Use the same mixture as for Potato Croquettes. If pre- 
ferred the onion juice and celery salt may be omitted. Mix 
the ingredients, shape and form into cakes, place in a but- 
tered pan and bake in a hot oven. A few minutes before 
removing from the oven, brush with milk and cream. 

POTATO CAKES WITH GRAVY 

1 pint of mashed potato 2 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons flour 2 teaspoons Savora 

iy2 cups water 



VEGETABLES 125 

Form the seasoned, mashed potato into round cakes, 
place in a buttered pan and pour over them a gravy made 
from the remaining ingredients. 

Rub the flour and butter together, add the salt and 
Savora and pour over these slowly the hot, but not boiling 
water, stirring meanwhile. Bake in a moderate oven about 
20 minutes. 

POTATO BALLS EN SURPRISE 

Season 1 pint mashed potatoes with 1 teaspoon salt, 2 
tablespoons butter. To prepare stuffing: Mash 6 hard 
boiled egg yolks together with 1 tablespoon butter, ^ tea- 
spoon salt and % teaspoon celery salt. Shape into six 
balls. Surround each with the potato. Brush the balls with 
milk. Bake until nicely browned. 

POTATO PUFF 

4 cups mashed potatoes 4 tablespoons butter 

2 egg yolks % cup milk 

2 teaspoons salt 

Prepare the mashed potato by forcing through a ricer or 
colander, add the salt, butter and milk and beat until light. 
Beat the egg yolks until light and stir into the potatoes. 
Turn about three-fourths of the potatoes into a baking dish, 
reserving the remainder for piping. For this secure a 
pastry bag with a tube having a scalloped edge, and fill with 
the potatoes. By gentle pressure with the hand, force the 
potatoes through the fluted tube in such a way as to make 
any desired pattern. Beat one egg-white slightly and dilute 
with one tablespoon of milk, and with this brush the po- 
tatoes lightly and bake in a moderate oven until nicely 
browned. 



126 THE NEW COOKERY 

POTATO LOAF 

4 cups mashed potatoes 4 tablespoons milk 

2 tablespoons butter 2 eggs 

Boil the potatoes in salted water, mash and add butter 
and milk. Separate the eggs, adding the well beaten yolks 
to the potatoes and beat thoroughly, then add the stififly 
beaten egg whites. Turn into a buttered dish and bake in 
a moderate oven until nicely browned on top. 

• 

POTATO AND RICE CROQUETTES 

1 cup mashed potatoes V^ cup boiled or steamed 
14 teaspoon grated onion rice 

1/4 cup milk 14 teaspoon salt 

Mix all of the ingredients. The amount of milk will 
depend upon the dryness of other materials. Shape and 
dip into beaten eggs. Roll in bread crumbs and bake until 
brown. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES 

6 medium sized potatoes 3 cups milk 

2 teaspoons salt 5 tablespoons bread crumbs 

3 tablespoons butter 1 small onion 
2 tablespoons flour 

Peel and slice the potatoes and arrange a layer in the 
bottom of a baking dish. Put a little of the finely minced 
onion, bits of butter and a sprinkle of salt over this. Dredge 
slightly with flour, then place another layer of potato and 
continue to flU the dish, arranging the ingredients in the 
same order as for the flrst layer. Heat the milk and pour 
over the potatoes. Over all sprinkle the dry or buttered 
bread crumbs, and cook an hour or more in a moderate oven. 



VEGETABLES 127 

STUFFED POTATOES 

6 medium sized potatoes 2 to 3 tablespoons butter 
Vs to l^ cup milk or cream 1 teaspoon salt 

Select well shaped potatoes of about equal size. Bake 
until soft, then cut or break the potato at about the middle. 
Eemove the contents, mash the potato, add salt, butter and 
sufficient cream or milk to cause the potato to beat up light. 
When very light fill the skins with the seasoned potato, 
piling it up in irregular shapes. Set the stuffed potatoes 
in the oven for a few minutes to brown. 

SAVORY POTATOES 

3 medium sized potatoes 1 tablespoon butter 
1/2 small onion 1 cup water 

1% teaspoons salt 
Peel and slice the onion in the bottom of a buttered pan. 
Then slice the potatoes. There should be one pint of sliced 
potatoes. Sprinkle with salt and pour over the hot water. 
Bake in a slow oven two hours or more. 

POTATOES A LA MAITRE D 'HOTEL 

Prepare a pint of potato balls, using a French cutter for 
the purpose. Small cubes will do if the cutter is not ob- 
tainable. Put the potatoes to cook in boiling salted water 
for ten minutes. Drain and add one cup of hot milk. Con- 
tinue the cooking until the potatoes are soft. Cream one 
tablespoonful of butter and add one beaten egg yolk. When 
well blended with the butter, add one tablespoon lemon 
juice, one tablespoon chopped parsley and one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt. Lift a little of the hot milk from the i)0- 
tatoes into the butter, then pour quickly into the potatoes, 
stirring while so doing. 



128 THE NEW COOKERY 

BROWNED POTATOES 

Boil potatoes. Place them in a shallow baking pan and 
for every half dozen medium-sized potatoes used, melt one 
level tablespoonful butter and with a brush (a small paint 
brush is most convenient for such purposes) spread lightly 
over them. Put into a hot oven and bake till a nice golden 
brown. 

HASHED BROWN POTATOES 

4 medium sized potatoes 2 tablespoons milk 

2 tablespoons butter 1% teaspoons salt 

Slice or chop cold boiled potatoes and place in a buttered 
pan. Add the salt and mix with two tablespoons melted 
butter. Place in a hot oven until nicely browned. Stir, 
add the milk and brown again. Stir again and brown the 
third time. 

MINCED POTATOES 

3 medium sized potatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

y^ cup cream 

Peel the potatoes and put to cook in boiling salted water 
to cover. When beginning to get tender add a cupful of 
cold water and bring again to the boiling point. When 
tender drain and cool. Cut into three-fourths inch cubes or 
slices. Put into a buttered pan and place in the oven. When 
thoroughly heated and beginning to brown pour over them 
the cream and stir. Allow the potatoes to brown again on 
top and stir once more. When browned again serve. One- 
half cup milk (scant) and one tablespoon of butter may 
be substituted for the cream if desired. 



VEGETABLES 129 

LYONNAISE POTATOES 

3 medium sized, boiled po- 2 sprigs of parsley 
tatoes 2 tablespoons butter 

1 small onion l^ tablespoon salt 

Put the butter, chopped parsley and grated onion into 
a double boiler. When the butter is melted, slice and add 
the potatoes and also the salt. When thoroughly heated 
through, serve. 

POTATOES AND CELERY HASH 

2 cups sliced cold potatoes I/2 cup cut celery 
% teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon butter 

Mix the potatoes with the rather finely cut celery. Add 
the salt and the melted butter, stir together, place in a hot 
oven and bake until nicely browned on top ; stir the potatoes 
and let brown again. Repeat this two or three times until 
the potatoes have been nicely browned throughout and the 
celery well cooked. 

POTATO AND ONION HASH 

2 cups chopped, boiled 4 cups cold minced po- 

onions tatoes 

2 teaspoons salt 4 tablespoons butter 

Peel the onions and cook in boiling salted water in an un- 
covered vessel until tender. Drain and cut the onion into 
small pieces. Mince cold boiled potatoes by putting through 
a food chopper or slice. Mix the potatoes and onions, 
sprinkle with the salt and dot the potatoes with the butter. 
Cover and bake in the oven until thoroughly heated, then 
uncover and brown. When browned on top, stir the potatoes 
from the bottom and brown again. 



130 THE NEW COOKERY 

SLICED POTATOES IN CREAM 

4 medium sized potatoes y^ cup cream 
2/3 cup milk li/^ teaspoons salt 

Peel and boil the potatoes as for Minced Potatoes. Add 
the salt, milk, and cream and put to bake in the oven. 
Allow them to cook slowly for one-half hour or more or until 
the liquid becomes quite thick. 

POTATOES AU GRATIN 

4 medium sized potatoes 4 tablespoons flour 

1 cup bread crumbs 2 cups milk 

14 pound yogurt cheese (or 2 tablespoons toasted bread 

Neufchatel cheese) crumbs 

4 tablespoons butter i/^ teaspoon salt 

Boil the potatoes, chop and spread in the bottom of 
a pan. Cover with the grated cheese, then spread a layer of 
bread crumbs, then pour over all the white sauce, made as 
follows: Rub together the flour and butter, add a little hot 
milk, then the remainder of the hot milk, and salt. Cook 
twenty minutes in a double boiler. When pouring the white 
sauce over the bread crumbs and potato, see that it perme- 
ates thoroughly. Sprinkle the toasted crumbs over the top, 
and bake in a quick oven. 

GLAZED SWEET POTATOES 

Boil six medium sized sweet potatoes in salted water with 
skins on for ten minutes, remove skins and cut in halves 
lengthwise. Arrange in a buttered pan. Make a syrup by 
boiling for three minutes % cup sugar and % cup water. 
Add lYo tablespoons butter. Brush potatoes with syrup and 
bake until brown, basting with remaining syrup. Serve in 
hot covered dish. 



VEGETABLES 131 

CREAMED SWEET POTATOES 

6 small sweet potatoes 1% tablespoons sugar 

2 teaspoons salt 3 tablespoons butter 

2 eggs 3 tablespoons flour 

3 cups milk 

Pare the sweet potatoes and cut each one into about 4 
pieces. Cook in boiling water until they can be pierced with 
a silver fork. Then drain off the liquid and place the po- 
tatoes in a casserole or baking dish. While the potatoes are 
boiling, heat the milk in a double boiler. Mix the butter and 
the flour, and add slowly the hot milk, stirring meanwhile. 
Then set over the fire and let come to the boiling point. Cook 
until thickened and add the salt and sugar. Beat the eggs 
and slowly a little of the hot sauce. Then add this to the 
sauce and pour over the sweet potatoes. Bake in a slow 
oven until set, taking care not to let cook until the mixture 
** curdles." 

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES 

6 medium sized sweet po- 2 tablespoons butter 

tatoes 2 tablespoons milk 

1 egg 1 teaspoon salt 

Peel the potatoes and drop at once into cold water to 
prevent discoloration. Boil, drain and put through a 
colander. Add the butter, milk and salt. Beat the egg and 
stir into the mixture. Form into croquettes. Dip in dried 
bread crumbs, then into a beaten egg to which has been 
added 2 tablespoons of milk or water, then back into the 
bread crumbs. Bake in a buttered pan until nicely browned. 
Serve with White or Cream Sauce. 



132 THE NEW COOKERY 

BROWNED SWEET POTATOES 

Peel the sweet potatoes and toss into cold water im- 
mediately to prevent discoloration. Cut in halves length- 
wise. Cook in boiling salted water or steam until tender. 
Drain and place in a buttered dripping pan. Brush the 
tops of the potatoes with butter. Sprinkle slightly with 
sugar. Place in a hot oven and bake until nicely browned. 



CREAMED CORN 

1 can com 1 tablespoon butter 

1 tablespoon flour 1/4 teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 

Heat the com. Rub together the salt, butter and flour, 
add a little of the warm milk, then the remainder. Cook 
the sauce in a double boiler ten minutes, add to the corn, 
reheat, and serve. 

SCALLOPED CORN 

14 cup butter 1 pint fresh corn or 

%^ cup flour drained canned corn 

1/2 teaspoon salt 1 cup bread crumbs 

1 tablespoon sugar % cup cream 

iy2 cups hot milk 

Heat the milk in a double boiler. Mix the butter and 
flour together, and add the hot milk, stirring meanwhile. 
Then add the fresh cut corn, the salt and sugar. Let come 
to the boiling point and turn into a baking dish. Cover the 
top with the bread crumbs, moistened slightly with the 
cream and bake 15 to 20 minutes. A tablespoon of butter 
may be used instead of the cream. 



VEGETABLES 133 

CORN PUDDING 

14 dozen ears com or 1 pint milk 

1/2 can com % teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 1 tablespoon melted butter 

1 tablespoon sugar 

Cut the com from the cob, first shaving off the tops of 
the grains, then scraping out the pulp of the com. If 
canned corn is used, drain off the liquid. Beat the eggs 
slightly, add the milk, sugar, salt and melted butter and 
then the com. Turn into a baking dish, set in a pan of hot 
water and bake in a moderate oven thirty to forty minutes, 
or until set as a custard. 

SUCCOTASH 

1 pint cooked lima beans 1% tablespoons butter 

1 cup stewed or canned com y^, teaspoon salt 

To prepare the beans take four-fifths of a cup of dried 
lima beans, put to soak an hour or more in cold water; 
drain and add one quart of hot water. Cook until almost 
tender. Add the salt and finish cooking. Allow the liquid 
to evaporate before removing from the stove. Add the com, 
butter and salt. Reheat and serve. 

BUTTERED CAULIFLOWER 

Remove all the green leaves and place the cauliflower 
head downward in cold water to which has been added 1 
tablespoon of salt to each quart of water. Let soak one-half 
hour or more to draw out any insects that may have found 
their way into the flowerets. If the head is to be cooked 
whole, tie it in a cheese cloth to prevent breaking. Boil in 
salted water until tender, taking care not to cook longer 
than necessary. Drain and dress with melted butter. 



134 THE NEW COOKERY 

Cauliflower is more quickly cooked if broken into the 
flowerets. 

CREAMED CAULIFLOWER 

1 medium sized head of cauliflower 
1 cup Sauce for Vegetables 

Prepare and cook the cauliflower the same as for but- 
tered cauliflower. Prepare one cup Sauce for Vegetables, 
using for the liquid, milk only. Mix the cauliflower with 
the Sauce for Vegetables. Let cook about five minutes or 
until the cauliflower is thoroughly seasoned with the Sauce. 

CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN 

Wash well and soak in water to which has been added a 
tablespoonful of salt to a quart of water. Cauliflower may 
be cooked while tied in a cheese cloth or broken into sprays. 
Cook in boiling, salted water. Drain, place in a baking 
dish, cover with Thin White Sauce, then sprinkle with 
bread crumbs and bake until brown. 

CREAMED BRUSSELS SPROUTS 

Pick and remove the wilted leaves, and soak in cold water 
15 minutes. Cook in boiling salted water about 20 minutes, 
or until tender. Drain and cover with White Sauce, using 
1 cup of the white sauce to each pint of the sprouts. 

The brussels sprouts may be served with a butter dress- 
ing the same as Buttered Cauliflower. 

STEWED CABBAGE 

Remove the outside leaves of the cabbage, cut into 
quarters and then chop, not too finely. Put to soak in cold 
water for a half hour or more, if possible. Toss into boiling 



VEGETABLES 135 

salted water and cook uncovered for from 20 minutes to 
one hour, the time varying according to the age and condi- 
tion of the cabbage. Toward the latter part of the cooking, 
allow most of the water to evaporate. Season with butter, 
allowing one tablespoon to a pint of cabbage. 

CEEAMED CABBAGE 

1 pint chopped cabbage 2 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons flour i/4 teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 

Chop the cabbage not too finely, and cook in salted water 
until tender, then drain. Make a white sauce by rubbing 
together the flour and butter and adding a little hot milk. 
Then add the remainder of the hot milk and salt, and cook 
in a double boiler twenty minutes. Mix this white sauce 
with the cooked cabbage, reheat and serve. 

CABBAGE IN TOMATO 

4 cups chopped cabbage 1 tablespoon butter 

3 cups strained tomato 1 teaspoon salt 

Stew the chopped cabbage in an uncovered dish in the 
strained tomato about half an hour or until tender. Add 
salt and butter and serve. 

HOT SLAW 

1 quart chopped, raw cab- 1 cup water 

bage 1 teaspoon salt 

^ cup lemon juice 14 cup meltose 

2 tablespoons butter 

Mix all the ingredients together and cook in a double 
boiler one and one-half hours or until the cabbage is tender. 
Serve as a vegetable. 

(6) 



136 THE NEW COOKERY 

ESCALLOPED CABBAGE 

1 quart steamed or boiled 1% cups Sauce for Vege- 

cabbage tables 

1 cup stale bread crumbs y^ teaspoon salt 

Remove the outer leaves of the cabbage and cut the cab- 
bage down through the core into eighths. Soak in cold 
water y^ hour. Cook by steaming or by boiling until tender, 
adding salt when the cabbage begins to get tender. As 
soon as tender, remove from the water and drain. Place the 
cabbage in a buttered baking dish. Pour over it the Sauce 
for Vegetables, made from milk only for the liquid. Cover 
with bread crumbs and bake until nicely browned. 

BAKED CABBAGE 

1 medium sized cabbage 2 eggs 

(equals about 1 quart 1 pint milk 

chopped cabbage) 1 teaspoon salt 

Chop the cabbage, boil in salted water until tender, then 
drain. Beat together the eggs and milk, pour over the cab- 
bage, and bake in a slow oven until set. 

BAKED CABBAGE A LA RUSSE 

1 large head of cabbage 1 teaspoon salt 

2y2 cups of toasted bread 4 cups milk {y^ cream if 

crumbs obtainable) 
14 cup butter 

Cut off stem, hollow out center of cabbage from stem 
end. Cut away the cabbage adhering to the core and chop 
cabbage very finely. Mix with this one and a half cups of 
the bread crumbs, made by rolling on a moulding board 
zwieback or thoroughly dried and toasted bread, also the 



J 



VEGETABLES 137 

butter and salt, and fill center with this. Place stuffed 
cabbage in crock which can be tightly sealed. Surround the 
cabbage with the remainder of the bread crumbs and the 
milk and cover. Place in oven and bake slowly for two 
hours or more. When tender and the milk is quite largely 
evaporated, remove and serve. 

CREAJVIED CARROTS 

3 cups diced, cooked carrots 1 cup White Sauce 

To prepare the carrots select two large or three medium 
sized carrots, wash and scrape and drop at once into cold 
water to prevent discoloration. Cut into half -inch cubes, or 
if preferred, cut lengthwise into quarters, and then into one- 
inch pieces. Steam or cook in boiling, salted water one to 
two hours, or until tender. Prepare White Sauce or Cream 
Sauce. Drain the carrots and add the sauce; reheat and 
serve. 

CARROTS WITH GREEN PEAS 

iy2 pints diced carrots 1 can peas 

1 pint Sauce for Vegetables 

Prepare the carrots same as for Creamed Carrots. Cook 
in boiling water until tender, adding salt one-half hour 
before they are done. Drain and prepare the Sauce for 
Vegetables, using all milk for the liquid. Drain and 
warm the peas and add to the vegetables and sauce. Bring 
to the boiling point and serve. 

BOILED SPINACH 

Pick over the spinach, carefully removing all wilted 
leaves. Cut off the roots and the coarse fibre of the leaves 
which require longer cooking than the remainder of the 



138 THE NEW COOKERY 

leaves, toss into cold water, and wash through several waters, 
taking care to agitate it considerably each time in order to 
free it from sand. Put to cook in boiling water and let boil 
five minutes. Drain, add salt and allow it to finish cooking 
in the liquid which remains on the leaves. Let cook until 
tender, which will require about twenty-five minutes. Drain 
off the excess moisture, if any. Add butter, one tablespoon- 
ful to a pint of the cooked spinach. Serve with slices of 
lemon, and if desired, hard boiled egg yolks. 

SPINACH SOUFFLE 

3 eggs 2 tablespoons butter 

1/4 cup flour 14 teaspoon salt 

1 cup cooked spinach 2/3 cup hot milk 

Rub the flour, salt, and butter together until smooth, then 
add, slowly at first, the hot milk, stirring continually that 
no lumps occur. Rub the spinach through a colander and 
add to the white sauce. Beat the egg yolks until light and 
creamy, add to the mixture, and fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites. Turn into a buttered baking dish, and bake in a 
slow oven fifteen to twenty minutes. Serve immediately. 

SWISS CHARD 

This is a vegetable quite similar to spinach. Prepare 
and cook the same as for Boiled Spinach. 

MASHED TURNIPS 

Wash and pare the turnips deeply enough to remove the 
fibrous layer which lies about % to y^ inch beneath the skin. 
Slice or quarter and put to cook in boiling water. Cook 
uncovered. When almost done, which will require from 45 
minutes to 2 hours time, add salt and finish cooking. Drain, 



VEGETABLES 139 

mash and add 1 tablespoon butter to each pint of mashed 
turnips. 

CREAMED TURNIPS 

Pare small, young, white turnips, boil till tender, adding 
salt one-half hour before done. Drain and dry over flame. 
Prepare Sauce for Vegetables. Pour over the turnips and 
let simmer 15 minutes. If small turnips are not obtainable, 
large ones may be sliced and otherwise prepared as the 
whole ones. 

CREAMED TURNIPS ON TOAST 

1 pint diced turnips 1% tablespoons butter 

1 teaspoon salt li/^ tablespoons flour 

1 cup milk 4 slices toasted bread 

Cook the turnips in boiling salted water until tender. 
Drain, make a white sauce of the milk, butter, flour and 
salt. Serve on crisp toasted bread. 

MASHED PARSNIPS 

Wash and scrape parsnips and toss immediately into 
cold water to prevent discoloration. Proceed as for Mashed 
Turnips. 

CREAMED PARSNIPS 

1 pint chopped parsnips % teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour 1 cup milk 

2 tablespoons butter 

Clean and scrape the parsnips and split lengthwise twice ; 
then cut into one inch pieces. Boil in salted water (i^ tea- 
spoon salt to the pint) until tender, which will require one to 
two hours if old, or forty-five minutes if young. Make a 
white sauce of the remaining ingredients. Mix the white 



140 THE NEW COOKERY 

sauce with the cooked parsnips, from which the liquid has 
been drained, reheat and serve. Sauce for Vegetables may 
be used if preferred. 

DRIED LIMA BEANS 

Soak in cold water over night. Do not use warm water, 
as they may spoil. Cook in boiling water until tender. 
There should be little liquid remaining when finished book- 
ing. Season with butter and salt a few minutes before 
tender. Croquettes made from the lima beans are a nice 
leftover dish. 

STRING BEANS 

Remove the string, cut or snap into inch lengths, wash 
and cook in boiling water one to three hours, adding the salt 
the last half hour of cooking. Drain, season with salt and 
butter. 

STRING BEANS IN CREAM 

1 quart cooked string beans 1 egg yolk 
1 cup cream 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

% teaspoon salt. 

If the beans are cold, reheat by adding a little hot water 
and cooking in a sauce pan until thoroughly heated. If 
there is an excess of liquid, drain. Prepare the dressing as 
follows : Beat the egg yolk until light, add the cream. Cook 
over hot water until it begins to thicken; add the lemon 
slowly, stirring constantly, then add the salt and the beans. 

SALAD BEANS 

1 quart string beans 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup hot water 

1 tablespoon flour 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Remove the strings and ends by paring with a sharp 
knife, and cut into % inch lengths. Put to cook in sufficient 



VEGETABLES 141 

boiling salted water to cover, and cook from one to three 
hours, according to the age of the beaifs. When tender, 
pour off the water and measure. There should be about one 
cup of the liquid. Rub the flour and one-half of the butter 
together. Pour over this, stirring constantly, the hot liquid, 
then place over the fire and cook five minutes. When 
finished cooking, remove from the fire, add the lemon juice 
and pour over the cooked beans. 

BREADED TOMATO 

1 quart can tomatoes 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup bread crumbs 2 teaspoons salt 

y2 tablespoon sugar 
Cook the tomatoes twenty to thirty minutes. Add the 
salt, sugar, butter, and lastly the bread crumbs. 

STUFFED TOMATOES 

6 large tomatoes 2 tablespoons butter 

2 cups stale bread crumbs 2 teaspoons salt 

2 tablespoons finely chopped onion 

Cut off the blossom end of the tomato and remove the 
inside portion. Prepare the dressing by placing the butter 
and onion in a double boiler and cooking fifteen to twenty 
minutes. Add the salt and the bread crumbs. Fill the 
tomatoes with the dressing, place in a buttered pan and 
bake in a moderate oven about one hour. 

STUFFED TOMATOES WITH OLIVES 

For each 2 tomatoes prepare the following: 
1 tablespoon butter 4 tablespoons dry bread 

y2 small onion finely crumbs 

chopped ^2 cup seeded ripe olives 

Remove stem from sound tomatoes and scrape out 
pulp. Cook the onion with the butter in a double boiler for 



142 THE NEW COOKERY 

20 minutes. Add the pulp and cook 5 minutes, then the 
olives and bread eVumbs. Put the mixture in the tomatoes, 
cover with bread crumbs and bake. 

BAKED TOMATOES 

Scald and peel the desired number of tomatoes. Ke- 
move the cores and cut down from the stem end about half 
way, making six or eight sections. Sprinkle salt into the 
openings and place a piece of butter in the center. Arrange 
the tomatoes closely in a pan, pour about one-fourth cup of 
hot water in the bottom of the pan and set in the oven to 
bake slowly about an hour. Slow cooking of tomatoes 
develops a delicious flavor. 

BOILED GREEN PEAS 

Secure as fresh from the garden as possible. Leave in 
pods until a short time before cooking. After removing 
from the pods, let stand in cold water a few moments. 
Skim off the immature peas which come to the top, and put 
to cook in boiling water. Let cook until tender, which will 
require from twenty minutes to one hour according to the 
age and freshness. Add salt about fifteen minutes before 
removing from the fire. Let almost all of the liquid evapo- 
rate. Add butter, allowing one tablespoon to each pint of 
peas. 

GREEN PEAS ENGLISH STYLE 

Add a sprig of mint to green peas and proceed as for 
Boiled Peas. 

CREAMED PEAS 

Prepare the same as for boiled peas, but add three- 
fourths cup of White Sauce instead of butter. Canned 
peas may be drained, rinsed and used in the same way. 



VEGETABLES 143 

NEW PEAS AND POTATOES 

1-pint shelled peas 2 tablespoons butter 

1 pint new potatoes 2 tablespoons flour 

114 cups milk 1 teaspoon salt 

Cook the shelled peas the same as for Boiled Green Peas. 
Scrape the new potatoes and put to cook in sufficient boil- 
ing, salted water to cover. When tender, drain and dry by 
shaking gently over the flame and add the peas. Prepare 
White Sauce of the milk, butter, flour and salt and pour 
over the peas and potatoes. Let cook a few moments before 
serving. 

RICE WITH PEAS 

1 cup boiled rice I/2 cup liquid from the peas 

14 cup canned peas 2 tablespoons flour 

4 teaspoons melted butter 

Put half the boiled rice in the bottom of a baking dish, 
then a layer of the peas, then the remainder of the rice. 
Rub the butter and flour together ; heat the liquid and pour 
over the butter and flour ; let boil 5 minutes. Then pour 
over the rice and bake 10 minutes. 

PEAS AND CELERY 

1 pint cooked or canned 2 tablespoons butter 

peas 2 tablespoons flour 

3 cups raw cut celery 1 cup water 

1 teaspoon salt 

Put the celery to cook in sufficient boiling water to 
cover. Let cook until tender, which will require about 
forty-five minutes. Drain off the liquid and measure out 
one cup. Rub the flour and butter together, add a little at 
a time the water in which the celery was cooked. When all 



144 THE NEW COOKERY 

is added, let boil five minutes. Add the cooked celery and 
the peas. 

BOILED ASPAEAGUS 

Untie the bunches of asparagus, cut off the tough portion 
of the stalk, remove the scales and wash very thoroughly. 
When thoroughly cleansed, retie with a white tape wide 
enough that it will not cut the asparagus. Stand in a kettle 
of boiling, salted water and let cook uncovered for ten 
minutes, allowing the tips to remain out of the water. Then 
lay the bunch down so that it is wholly covered with water 
and cook another five minutes. Eemove from the water and 
serve with a dressing of melted butter. If desired the 
asparagus may be served on toast. The asparagus may be 
cut into small pieces and cooked, if preferred. 

ASPARAGUS IN CEEAM 

Untie the asparagus, wash, remove the scales, and cut 
into half-inch pieces. Cook ia sufficient boiling, salted 
water to almost cover. Cook ten to twelve minutes, drain 
off the liquid and pour over the asparagus some hot milk 
and cream in the proportion of one-third cream and two- 
thirds milk, also add butter for seasoning. One quart of 
asparagus will require one-third cup cream, two-thirds cup 
milk, two tablespoons butter and one-half teaspoon salt. 

ASPAEAGUS IN CANAPES 

Prepare canapes by cuttiQg stale bread into 2^^ inch 
cubes. Eemove a two-inch cube from the side, forming a 
square receptacle. Toast in oven until nicely browned. 
Place a few asparagus tips in canape and fill with cream 
sauce or cream tomato sauce. 



VEGETABLES 145 

ASPARAGUS WITH GREEN PEAS 

1 pint cut asparagus 1 teaspoon salt 

1/2 pint green peas 1 teaspoon sugar 

Water to cover well 1 tablespoon butter 

^ cup cream 

Select peas as tender and fresh as possible, as peas lose 
their sweetness very rapidly after being gathered. Put 
to cook in boiling salted water. The asparagus should be 
crisp and tender. If somewhat wilted, throw into cold 
water for a half hour or so. Remove the scales and wash 
thoroughly by dashing up and down in several waters to 
make sure that all sand is removed. Cut into half-inch 
lengths, and put to cook in enough boiling salted water to 
■cover well. When both are tender mix the vegetables and 
add the butter and cream for seasoning. They are also de- 
licious without the cream. 

BOILED ONIONS 

1 quart onions ll^ cups water in which the 

2 tablespoons butter onions were boiled 
2 tablespoons flour l^i teaspoon salt 

Peel the onions under cold water and put to cook in 
boiling, salted water. Boil five minutes, drain and 'again 
cover with boiling, salted water. Cook uncovered until 
tender, taking care not to boil so rapidly that the onions 
are broken. Drain and reserve li/^ cups of the water with 
which to make the dressing. Rub the butter and flour to- 
gether and stir into it the warm liquid. Add additional 
«alt, if desired. Turn this dressing over the onions and re- 
lieat a few moments. 



146 THE NEW COOKERY 

YOUNG ONIONS IN CREAM 

Procure tender, young onions or scullions in as fresh 
condition as possible. Cut off the tops, leaving about one 
inch of the green. Remove the outer skin of the onion and 
cut off the root end. Cut into half -inch lengths and pre- 
pare and serve the same as Asparagus in Cream. 

STEWED ONIONS 

1 quart onions 2 tablespoons butter 

% cup milk 14 teaspoon salt 

Peel the onions under cold water. Cook in boiling salted 
water, changing the water at the end of 5 minutes and again 
at the end of 10 minutes to remove the strong flavor. Cook 
uncovered until tender. Drain, add milk and butter, and 
cook 15 minutes. 

BAKED ONIONS 

6 medium-sized onions 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter 

Peel the onions and put to cook in boiling salted water. 
Boil 5 minutes, drain and again cover with boiling salted 
water. Cook uncovered until tender, taking care not to 
boil so rapidly that the onions are broken. Drain and place 
on a buttered pan and brush with the melted butter. Bake 
in a hot oven until nicely browned. 

STUFFED ONIONS 

Peel and parboil the desired number of onions. Remove 
centers from the root end with a fork. Soak stale bread 
in cold water. Press to remove excess of water. Season 
with melted butter, sage, salt and the centers of the onions 
which have been thoroughly chopped. Fill the onions with 



d t.egi m White Huic 



VEGETABLES 147 

the stufSng, put a small piece of butter on each and place 
in the oven to finish baking, and to brown. 

ONION SOUFFLE 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup onion puree 

3 tablespoons flour 3 eggs i 
l^ cup hot milk V2 teaspoon salt ' 

Peel 6 or 8 medium sized onions. Quarter and put to 
eook in boiling salted water. As soon as tender, drain the 
water from them and put through a colander, thus making 
the onion puree. Mix the flour, salt and butter together 
and add the hot milk, stirring meanwhile. Cook until thick- 
ened, then add the onion puree, and lastly the well beaten 
eggs. Turn into an oiled baking dish, set in a pan of hot 
water and bake in a moderate oven one-half hour. Serve 
immediately. 

ONIONS AND EGGS IN WHITE SAUCE 

4 large Bermuda onions 3 tablespoons flour 

1 pint milk 4 hard boiled eggs 

2 tablespoons butter i/^ teaspoon salt 

Cook the onions uncovered in boiling, salted water until 
tender. When done, drain off the liquid and cut the onions 
into fourths; cut the eggs also into fourths lengthwise of 
the egg. Arrange in a dish and pour the White Sauce over 
them. 

CREAMED EGG PLANT 

1 quart diced egg plant 2 tablespoons butter 

1 pint water 2 tablespoons flour 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon salt 

y^ teaspoon celery salt 

Peel the egg plant and cut into % inch cubes. Put to 
cook in boiling, salted water. When tender drain off the 



148 THE NEW GOOKEBT 

liquid. Make a white sauce of the milk, flour, butter, 
celery salt and one-half of the salt. Mix the ^g plant with 
the White Sauce and let cook a few minutes. 



STUFFED EGG PLANT 

Select a firm, unspotted egg plant. Boil in salted water 
15 minutes, turning frequently to insure even cooking. 

Remove the top and the pulp by the aid of a knife and 
spoon. Leave about % of an inch thickness next to the 
skin. Put one tablespoon butter, i/^ teaspoon salt, % of a 
small onion thinly sliced in a double boiler. Cook lA to 15 
minutes, then add one cup of stale bread crumbs, and mix 
with the butter and onions. Chop the pulp and add the 
buttered crumbs. Add one to two tablespoons of water 
and one beaten egg. Refill the egg plant, set in the oven 
and bake 30 to 45 minutes. 



BAKED EGG PLANT 

1 quart diced egg plant 2 tablespoons butter 

1 cup milk 2 cups bread crumbs 

1 egg % teaspoon salt 

Peel the egg plant and cut into % inch cubes. Put to 
soak in cold water, to which 1 tablespoon of salt to one 
quart of water has been added. Let soak one-half hour or 
more. Cook in boiling, salted water. When tender, drain, 
then add beaten egg slowly, and add gait and milk, and pour 
over the egg plant. Melt the butter and stir in the crumbs. 
Add the buttered crumbs and bake in an oiled pan in a 
moderate oven until set. 



VEGETABLES 149 

CREAMED JAPANESE CROSNES 

1 quart crosnes 3 tablespoons butter 

1 pint milk 3 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon salt 

Cleanse the crosnes thoroughly by scrubbing with a 
vegetable brush, plunge them into boiling, salted water and 
boil 10 to 15 minutes, or until tender. Drain and prepare 
a white sauce of the milk, butter, flour and salt. Turn the 
sauce over the crosnes and let cook two or three minutes. 

BUTTERED VEGETABLE OYSTERS 

Select rather large, firm salsify (vegetable oyster) and 
scrape. As soon as scraped, throw at once into cold water 
to which has been added a spoonful of flour. This forms a 
slight coating over the vegetables and prevents discolora- 
tion. Slice them and put to cook in boiling salted water. 
Cook until tender, which will require about one hour. Drain 
and add two tablespoonfuls of butter to each quart of the 
sliced salsify. 

SALSIFY FRITTERS 

2 cups mashed salsify 2 tablespoons butter 
1 egg 1 teaspoon salt 

Wash and scrape the salsify and cook in boiling water 
slightly acidifled with lemon juice to prevent its turning 
dark. When tender, drain, mash and season with the butter 
and salt. Beat the egg slightly and add three-fourths of it 
to the salsify. Form into patties and place in a shallow pan. 
To the remainder of the egg add half a tablespoonful of 
milk and with this brush the patties and bake until a deli- 
cate brown. Qamish with parsley or lettuce ribbons. 



150 THE NEW COOKERY 

SCALLOPED VEGETABLE OYSTERS 

1 quart sliced, cooked vegetable oysters or salsify 

2 cups Sauce for Vegetables 
2 cups bread crumbs 

To prepare the vegetable oysters, scrape and throw into 
water into which a little flour has been stirred to prevent 
discoloration ; put to cook in boiling, salted water and boil 
until tender, which will require an hour or more. Drain 
and make Sauce for Vegetables. Arrange the vegetable 
oysters and bread crumbs in layers, reserving a portion of 
the bread crumbs for the top. Pour the sauce over the 
vegetable oysters and crumbs, and finish with a layer of 
crumbs. Bake in a moderate oven J 5 to 20 minutes. 

SCALLOPED DASHEEN 

4 medium sized dasheen 1 tablespoon flour 

1 cup milk 1 tablespoon cracker crumbs 

iy2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon salt 

Wash and scrub the dasheen, boil and slice. Butter a 
baking dish and put in a layer of sliced dasheen, sprinkle 
with salt and flour and dot with butter. Add another layer 
of dasheen and the other ingredients, finishing with the 
flour aud butter on top. Pour on the milk and sprinkle 
cracker crumbs or toasted bread crumbs on the top and 
bake in a moderate oven about one-half hour. The quantity 
of milk and butter will vary according to the size of the 
dasheen. 

SLICED DASHEEN IN CREAM 

Scrub the dasheen tubers clean, peel and slice. Arrange 
in ramekin dishes or individual bakers in layers, sprinkling 
salt between each layer. Fill the dishes with a mixture of 



VEGETABLES 151 

one-third cream and two-thirds milk. Place in the oven and 
bake until the dasheens are tender, which will require about 
thirty minutes. 

BUTTERED BEETS 

Wash and cook the beets until tender, which will re- 
quire from one to four hours according to the age of the 
beet. Drain and turn the beets into cold water. Remove 
the skins, slice the beets, sprinkle with salt and pour melted 
butter over them, using two tablespoons of butter to one 
quart of sliced beets. If somewhat cold, reheat beets. 

ITALIAN BEETS 

V2 c^P butter 2/3 cup lemon juice 

IY2 teaspoons salt 3 cups hot water 

y2 dozen medium sized beets % cup flour 

Wash the beets and put into boiling water. Cook from 1 
to 4 hours, or until the skins will loosen from the beet. Then 
put into cold water and remove the skin. Cut the beets 
lengthwise through the center into about eight pieces. Make 
a sauce of the remainder of the ingredients given above. 

Mix the flour and % of the butter ; add the hot water 
slowly, stirring meanwhile ; let cook 5 minutes and then add 
the salt, the remaining butter and the lemon juice. Turn 
the beets into this sauce and when thoroughly reheated, 
serve. 

OKRA AND TOMATOES 

1 quart okra 1 tablespoon butter 

6 large tomatoes or 1 teaspoon salt 

1 pint can tomatoes % small onion 

Water 
Wash and remove the stem ends of the okra pods, cut 
mto thin slices. Peel the tomatoes and press out the seeds. 



152 THE NEW COOKERY 

Cut into small pieces, add sliced onion, salt and sufficient 
water to almost cover. Cook thirty minutes. Add the 
butter. 

STUFFED CUCUMBERS 

4 rather lai^e cucumbers 2 tablespoons melted butter 
1 tomato 2 cups boiled or steamed 

1 tablespoon chopped onion rice 

1 teaspoon salt 

Peel the cucumbers and cut into halves. Peel the tomato 
and cut into small pieces. Mix with the chopped onion, 
add the cooked rice, salt and butter. Fill the half cucum- 
bers with the mixture and bake covered until the latter are 
tender, or about forty-five minutes in a hot oven. Remove 
the cover for the last part of the baking. 

MASHED SUMMER SQUASH 

Select squashes of about equal size. If quite mature, 
quarter and remove seeds. If quite young, they may be 
cooked whole. Steam or cook in a very small quantity of 
water, allowing as much of the water as possible to evapo- 
rate at the last of the cooking. Unless the squash is quite 
dry, drain the liquid from it. Mash, then season with a 
little butter, salt and cream. 



CHAPTER XV 

SALADS AND RELISHES 

SALADS are valuable because they introduce into the die- 
tary a bit of fresh or raw material in an attractive form. 
Some raw food such as fruits and tender vegetables should 
form a part of each day's dietary. 

A salad is usually named from the materials forming the 
body, such as Potato or Fruit Salad. By varying the com- 
binations of fruits or vegetables, and by dressings, a great 
variety may be had. 

The dressings may be varied by seasoning — celery salt, 
onion salt, sugar or by the addition of plain or whipped 
cream. 

Celery, lettuce and other vegetables should be as crisp 
as possible. To insure crispness, place in cold water a half 
hour or more before using. Drain and dry on clean towels, 
otherwise the water on the vegetable dilutes the dressing. - 

FRUIT SALAD 

1 cup diced oranges 1 cup diced bananas 

1 cup diced apples l^ cup stoned cherries 

1 cup Golden Dressing 

To prepare the oranges peel, slice, and with a sharp 
knife cut each as nearly as possible into half-inch cubes. 
To prepare the apples peel and cut into half -inch cubes. 
The bananas should also be peeled, scraped and cut into 
half -inch cubes. Ripe or canned cherries may be used for 
the purpose. Mix the fruits with the Gholden Dressing and 
serve in sherbet glasses or upon a lettuce leaf. 

153 



154 THE NEW COOKERY 

WALDORF SALAD 

1 cup diced apples y2 cup cut celery 

14 cup walnut meats 1 cup cooked Mayonnaise 

1 tablespoon sugar Dressing 

Peel and dice sufficient apples to make the quantity 
desired and marinate at once with a little lemon juice to 
prevent discoloration. Clean the celery and cut into small 
pieces and add to the apples. Add the broken or coarsely 
chopped English walnut meats. 

To make the dressing use half the recipe for Cooked 
Mayonnaise and add to it one and one-half tablespoonfuls 
of sugar. Mix this with the other ingredients and serve 
upon garnished individual salad plates with a half walnut 
meat on top of each serving. If desired Cream Mayonnaise 
Dressing may be used instead of the Cooked Mayonnaise. 

SLICED BANANAS WITH CHERRY SAUCE 

Slice the desired number of bananas, using one banana 
for each serving. Add a tablespoonful of Cherry Sauce 
made after the recipe for Raspberry Sauce. When the 
bananas are thoroughly ripened this makes a nice salad for 
children. It may also be served as a dessert. 

PINEAPPLE AND NUT SALAD 

1 tablespoon sugar 6 tablespoons lemon juice 

1 quart can Hawaiian sliced 2 tablespoons water 
pineapple ^ teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 2 teaspoons sugar 

4 tablespoons butter % cup chopped nuts 

iy2 cups whipped cream 

Drain the pineapple and arrange the slices on individual 
salad plates garnished with lettuce. Prepare the dressing as 



SALADS AND RELISHES 155 

follows: Beat the eggs slightly, turn into a double boiler, 
add lemon juice, water, sugar and salt and lastly the butter. 
Cook until the mixture begins to thicken, stirring con- 
stantly. Remove from the heat and cool at once. Should 
the dressing curdle, place in a pan of cold water and beat 
vigorously with an egg beater. 

Select rather large eggs for this recipe or decrease the 
amount of water slightly. Prepare the whipped cream by 
beating % cup of whipping cream to a stiff froth. This 
should make a cup and a half when whipped. Fold into the 
dressing one-half of the chopped nuts, tafciug care to re- 
serve the larger pieces for the top of the salad. Place a 
heaping tablespoon of the dressing on each slice of pine- 
apple. Sprinkle over each serving a teaspoonful of the 
chopped nuts reserved for the top. 

APPLE, CHEESE AND NUT. SALAD 

4 medium sized apples 14 cup broken walnut 

% pound of Yogurt or meats 

Neuf chatel cheese Mayonnaise dressing 

Peel and dice the apples and marinate them with the 
juice of two lemons to prevent discoloration. Cut the 
cheese in half-inch cubes and add to the apples. Add 
enough of the raw mayonnaise dressing to blend the ingredi- 
ents, and serve on garnished salad plates. On top of each 
serving scatter some broken walnut meats. 

Mix with raw mayonnaise dressing; garnish with let- 
tuce or nasturtium leaves. 

FILBERT AND CHERRY SALAD 

1 cup shelled filberts 1 pint California cherries 

% cup Cream Salad Dressing 

Remove the rough exterjor of the shelled filberts with a 
sharp paring knife. Use firm California cherries (white or 



156 THE NEW COOKERY 

black) . Eemove the stones and fill the cherry with a shelled 
filbert. Put six or eight of these on a lettuce leaf and 
serve with a spoonful of the dressing. 



GRAPE FRUIT AND OELERY SALAD 

1 cup celery, diced 1 cup grape fruit, diced 

Cooked Mayonnaise Dressing 

Cut the grape fruit into halves and with a sharp knife 
cut a circle through the flesh, near the edge of the skin. 
Remove the flesh by scooping out carefully with a spoon, 
and cut into cubes or small bits. Put to drain while pre- 
paring the celery. 

Wash, brush, and scrape celery and put into cold water 
for an hour or more. Drain, dry on clean towels and cut 
into small pieces. Mix the celery and the grape fruit with 
Cooked Mayonnaise Dressing. Serve in the shells of the 
grape fruit, prepared by removing the skin or ''ijag'^ on 
the inside and cutting notches in the edge with a pair of 
shears. Serve on a lettuce leaf. 

APPLE AND DATE SALAD 

2 cups diced apples 1^^ cups cut dates 

% cup Golden Dressing 

Peel the apples and cut into as nearly I/2 iiich cubes as 
possible. Marinate with the juice of a lemon to prevent 
discoloration. Put dates into cold water ; remove the stones 
and cut each date into about four pieces ; wash by pouring 
boiling water over them. When thoroughly chilled, mix 
the apples and dates and stir in the Golden Dressing. 
Garnish with lettuce or with nasturtium leaves. 



SALADS AND RELISHES 157 

APPLE, DATE AND ORANGE SALAD 

1 quart diced apples ^ cup diced oranges 
y^ cup chopped English Mayonnaise or Golden 

wahiuts Dressing 

^ cup chopped dates 

Dice the apples and marinate with the juice of a lemon 
to prevent discoloration. To prepare the dates immerse in 
cold water. Remove the seeds and cut each date into four 
pieces. Wash in hot water and dry upon clean towels. 
Chop the nuts coarsely. To prepare the oranges, peel, 
slice and cut into one-half inch cubes. Mix the apples, 
dates, oranges and nuts with the Mayonnaise or Golden 
Dressing. Serve with any preferred garnish, 

PINEAPPLE AND STRAWBERRY SALAD 

2 cups diced pineapple 1 cup strawberries 

% cup Golden Salad Dressing 

Use fresh pineapple. Cut into small pieces and mix with 
the Golden Dressing. Just before serving cut the straw- 
berries into halves and add to the salad. 

FRUIT SALAD A LA CREAM 

2 large bananas 1 pound Tokay or Malaga 

1 pint sliced pineapple grapes 

Cream Salad Dressing 

Drain the juice from the pineapple and cut into 
small pieces. Peel the grapes with a sharp paring knife, 
then cut into halves and remove the seeds. Peel the 
bananas and scrape off the fuzzy portions next to the skin 
and dice. Mix these with the Cream Salad Dressing and 
serve on a salad plate garnished with lettuce or place a 



158 THE NEW COOKERY 

spoonful of fruit thereon and on top of this a smaller 
spoonful of the dressing. 

APPLE AND CELERY SALAD 

2 cups diced apples 2 cups cut celery 

1 cup Golden Salad Dressing 

To prepare the apples peel and cut as nearly as possible 
into half-inch cubes. Marinate the apples with a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice. Mix well in order to prevent dis- 
coloration. Cut the celery quite finely and mix with the 
apples. Mix these ingredients with the Golden Salad Dress- 
ing and serve with a garnish of lettuce. 

BANANA AND WALNUT SALAD 

3 bananas 2 tablespoons Cooked May- 
2 tablespoons chopped onnaise Dressing 

English walnuts 1 scant tablespoon cream 

1 teaspoon sugar 

Mix the Cooked Mayonnaise with the cream and sugar. 
Peel and cut the bananas into halves lengthwise. Place 
one-half of a banana on a lettuce leaf and pour over the 
banana a generous spoonful of the dressing. Sprinkle each 
half with a teaspoonf ul of the chopped English Walnuts. 

BERKELEY SALAD 

1 cup diced pineapple 1 cup pineapple juice 

2 cups diced oranges 1 cup hot water 

1 cup diced bananas 3 tablespoons cornstarch 

1 cup seeded Malaga % cup sugar 

Grapes 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Mix the cornstarch and sugar and pour over it, stirring 
meanwhile, the hot water. Cook directly over the fire for 



SALADS AND RELISHES 159 

from five to ten minutes. Remove from the stove. Add 
pineapple juice and the lemon juice and cool. Prepare the 
fruit by dicing the pineapple (fresh or canned), oranges 
and the bananas. Remove the Malaga grapes from the 
stem, wash thoroughly, peel and cut in halves. Remove the 
seeds and add to the other fruit. Pour the dressing over the 
salad and serve upon a plate. Garnish with grape leaves 
or any preferred garnish. 

DATE AND WALNUT SALAD 

Select firm, well-shaped dates. Immerse in cold water, 
remove the stones and wash in very hot water. Cool and 
dry between clean towels. Fill the centers of the dates 
with half of an English walnut meat. Prepare Cream 
Mayonnaise or Golden Salad Dressing. Arrange the dates 
on garnished individual salad plates and pour over these 
the dressing. 

COMBINATION GREEN SALAD 

6 medium sized tomatoes 6 radishes 

2 rather small cucumbers y^, sweet green pepper 

French Salad Dressing 

Arrange the salad on individual salad plates. Slice the 
tomato on a lettuce leaf, then add one-third of a cucumber, 
sliced. Slice the radishes, but do not peel. Arrange the 
sliced radishes over the tomato and cucumber. Chop the 
half of a sweet green pepper, taking care that it is a sweei 
pepper, and sprinkle V2 teaspoon of the chopped pepper 
on top of the other vegetables. Over this pour a tablespoon 
of the French Salad Dressing. It is particularly important 
that the vegetables shall be in good condition and that the 
cucumber and radishes shall be crisp and tender. If some- 
what wilted, immerse them in cold water for a half hour or 
more. 



160 THE NEW COOKERY 

CABBAGE SALAD 

Cut a small cabbage quite fine. Serve with a cream 
dressing made by using 
1 cup sour cream 1 scant tablespoon sugar 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 1 teaspoon salt 

l^ teaspoon celery salt 

Beat the cream with Dover egg beater until smooth. 
Gradually add lemon juice, then the seasoning. Beat thor- 
oughly. This dressing may be made from sweet cream by 
adding 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

This salad may be served in a cabbage head prepared 
by removing the center and scalloping the edge. At the 
base of each scallop put a piece of parsley and arrange 
sprigs of parsley about the base of the head. 

STRING BEAN SALAD 

Select young, tender beans; remove the ends and the 
strings; put to cook, without breaking, in boiling, salted 
water. Cook until tender, which may require from 1 to 3 
hours. Drain off the liquid and cool. Marinate with the 
juice of a lemon. Arrange the beans horizontally on a 
lettuce leaf on individual salad plates. Pour over the beans 
a French Salad Dressing. If preferred a good grade of 
canned string beans may be used instead of the fresh ones. 

PEAS AND CELERY SALAD 

1 can peas 1 cup Cooked Mayonnaise 

iy2 cups chopped celery 1 onion 

. 1/^ teaspoon salt 
Drain the juice from one can of peas, wash, drain again. 
Add to the peas the grated onion, salt, and chopped celery. 
Mix all with the mayonnaise (scant measure) and garnish 
with lettuce. 



SALADS AND RELISHES 161 

BEET SALAD 

Prepare the desired number of beets by washing care- 
fully and cook in "boiling, salted water from 1 to 4 hours, 
or until the beets are perfectly tender. Remove from the 
hot water and take oflf the skins. Cut in half the round way 
of the beets. For each serving place the two halves on a 
lettuce leaf on a salad plate. Between the two, pile Cooked 
Mayonnaise Dressing and arrange sliced, ripe olives over the 
dressing. 

TOMATO AND CAULIFLOWER SALAD 

Scald and peel medium-sized ripe tomatoes. Remove the 
core and cut into sixths. Arrange in a circle on a lettuce 
leaf and put a spoonful of Mayonnaise Dressing in the 
center. Marinate cold, steamed or raw floweret of cauli- 
flower in French dressing and place in the mayonnaise or 
center of the tomato. 

MACEDOINE SALAD 

1 cup diced carrots I/2 cup diced sweet potatoes 

V2 cup diced potatoes I/2 cup diced turnips 

1 cup cut string beans I/2 cup French Dressing 

Cook the vegetables separately, adding salt toward the 
last of the cooking. When cool, cut into % inch cubes. 
Canned beans may be used if fresh ones are not obtainable. 
They should be cut into % inch lengths. Vegetables other 
than these mentioned may be used. Cauliflower, beets, 
peas, celery, etc., may be substituted, if desired. Two 
or three vegetables only may be used ; mix the vegetables 
with the French Dressing. Garnish the salad with lettuce 
leaves. 



] 62 THE NEW COOKERY 

COLD SLAW 
1 quart shaved cabbage 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 1 tablespoon butter 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 tablespoon flour 

14 cup lemon juice 1 egg 

Shave the cabbage very finely, toss into cold water for a 
few minutes, then drain and dry upon clean towels; let 
stand near the ice until ready to use. Prepare the dressing 
as follows: Heat the milk in a double boiler; add the 
sugar, rub the butter and flour together ; pour the hot, but 
not scalding milk over the flour and butter, a little at a time, 
stirring meanwhile. Cook in a double boiler 10 minutes; 
add the salt ; beat together until thoroughly blended. Pour 
the sauce gradually over the beaten egg and return to the 
double boiler for a moment or so ; add the salt and gradu- 
ally the lemon juice. Turn over the cabbage and chill. 

TOMATO WITH MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

Wash the tomatoes, remove the stem end, and peel thinly 
from the stem end downward, not around, then cut down 
through the center almost to the other side, making four 
divisions. Place upon a lettuce leaf on a salad plate. 
Sprinkle with salt and fill in the center with Cooked Mayon- 
naise Dressing. 

POTATO SALAD 

1 quart diced cold potatoes Cooked Mayonnaise Dress- 

2 hard cooked egg yolks ing 

Grated onion or celery salt 

Pare the potatoes and cook in boiling salted water until 
tender. Drain and allow to cool. When cold cut into 
cubes one-half to three-fourths inch in thickness. Cut the 



SALADS AND RELISHES 163 

hard boiled egg yolks into small pieces and add to the 
potatoes. Season with a little grated onion if desired, or 
celery salt. Mix with Cooked Mayonnaise Dressing and let 
stand one hour or more before serving. 

FRENCH SALAD 

1 pint cold diced potatoes l^ cup grated onion 

% cup diced cucumbers 1 cup Cooked Mayonnaise 

% cup diced radishes Dressing 

1 cup chopped celery Salt to taste 

Cook the potatoes in boiling, salted water. When cold, 
cut into half -inch cubes. Peel the cucumber, cut into small 
cubes and throw into cold water until ready for use. Pre- 
pare the radishes in the same way. If the radishes are very 
tender, the peeling may be left on, which gives a bit of 
color to the salad. Chop the celery quite fine, remove 
the vegetables from the water and dry upon clean towels. 
Add them to the potatoes. Add the grated onion (the onion 
may be omitted if preferred) and mix all the ingredients 
with the mayonnaise dressing. Garnish with crisp, tender 
lettuce and red radishes with the skin trimmed back from 
the root end in such a way as to represent a blossom. 

POTATO AND CELERY SALAD 

1 quart diced cold potatoes Grated onion if desired 

2 hard-boiled eggs Cooked Mayonnaise Dress- 
1 cup chopped celery ing 

Pare the potatoes and cook in boiling, salted water until 
tender. "When tender cut into cubes one-half to three- 
fourths inch in thickness. Shell the eggs and remove the 
egg yolks. Cut into small pieces and add to the potatoes. 
The whites may be utilized by putting through a sieve. 



164 THE NEW COOKERY 

Add the celery, which has been previously cleaned and cut 
into small pieces. Add the grated onion if desired and mix 
all with sufl&cient mayonnaise dressing to blend the in- 
gredients. 

GERMAN POTATO SALAD 

Slice enough cold boiled potatoes to make one quart. 
Grate one-half of a small onion over them, sprinkle with 
salt, and pour slowly over all one-fourth cup of pure olive 
oil, stirring lightly with a fork until each slice glistens with 
the oil. Then add the juice of one lemon, and stir once 
more. Set on ice for an hour or so before serving. 

BEET AND BEAN SALAD 

1 cup diced beets 1 cup string beans 

% cup Cooked Mayonnaise 2 tablespoons cream 
Dressing ^ teaspoon grated onion 

Cut cold boiled beets into three-fourths inch cubes. Cut 
cold cooked beans into one-half inch lengths. Add the 
onion juice and the cream to the cooked mayonnaise dress- 
ing. Mix the beets and the beans with the dressing and 
garnish with lettuce. 

SALAD IN TOMATO CUPS 

6 tomatoes 1 cup diced apples 

^ cup diced cucumbers 1 cup Cooked Mayonnaise 

1 cup cut celery Dressing 

1 teaspoon salt 
Select firm, well shaped tomatoes. Cut off the stem end 
and remove the pulp. Prepare the cucumbers, celery, and 
apples. Mix with these vegetables the tomato pulp and 
then with the mayonnaise dressing and the salt. Fill the 
tomato cups with this. 



SALADS AND RELISHES 165 

TOMATO SALAD 

6 or 8 medium sized tomatoes Salt 

6 or 8 tablespoons Cooked Mayonnaise Dressing 

Peel the tomatoes, remove the core and cut down through 
the center to divide it into four sections. Do not cut quite 
through, leaving the four sections held together at the base. 
Sprinkle the tomato with salt and place about a spoonful 
of the dressing in the center. Serve on a lettuce leaf. 

CAULIFLOWER SALAD 

1 head cauliflower Lettuce 

Cooked Mayonnaise Dressing 

Remove the green leaves from the cauliflower and place 
it head down in cold water, to which has been added one 
tablespoon salt to one quart of water. Let soak one- 
half hour or more to drive out any insects that may have 
found their way into the flowerets. Cut into small sections 
or flowerets. Cook in boiling, salted water until tender. 
Drain, let cool and serve upon individual salad plates with 
a garnish of lettuce. Arrange one or two flowerets upon 
the plate and serve with a spoonful of the dressing at the 
side and on top of it. 

SUMMER SALAD 

1 cup diced cucumbers 1 cup Cooked Mayonnaise 

1 cup cut celery Dressing 

1 cup diced radishes 1 dozen medium sized let- 

^ cup grated onion tuce leaves 

Select as firm, fresh vegetables as possible. If not 
strictly fresh place in cold water for one-half hour or more. 
Peel the cucumbers and cut into one-half inch cube«. Wash 



166 THE NEW COOKERY 

and scrape the celery to free it of the coarse fibre. Cut 
quite finely. Wash and brush the radishes. Cut off the top 
and stem end and cut into cubes without peeling. The red 
radishes add a bit of color to the salad. Cleanse the lettuce 
by washing in several waters and shred very finely with 
sharp shears. Prepare the grated onion and mix with the 
other vegetables. Blend all together with the dressing. 
Serve upon a lettuce leaf. 

ROYAL SALAD 

2 cups diced nuttolene I/2 cup Cooked Mayonnaise 

3 hard boiled egg yolks Dressing 

V2 cup chopped celery 

Toast the nuttolene. Press the egg yolks through a 
colander and mix with nuttolene and celery. Blend the 
ingredients with the dressing and garnish with lettuce. 

CELERY SALAD 

3 cups cut celery 1 cup Mayonnaise Dressing- 

Mix the celery with the Mayonnaise Dressing. Garnish 
with water cress. 

CELERY AND TOMATO SALAD 

1 pint diced fresh tomatoes ^ cup Mayonnaise Dress- 
V2 cup celery ing or Cooked Mayonnaise 

Peel the tomato and cut into three-fourths inch cubes, 
rejecting the seedy portion. Clean the celery and cut into 
half inch lengths. Add to the tomato and mix with the 
Mayonnaise Dressing. Garnish and serve. 



SALADS AND RELISHES 167 

CABBAGE AND CELERY SALAD 

Prepare the same as for cabbage salad, using one-third 
celery and two-thirds cabbage instead of all cabbage. 

BEETS AND PEAS IN ASPIC 

3 red beets % package Vegetable 

1 can French peas Gelatine 

1 dozen ripe olives 1 cup boiling water 

Juice 2 lemons 
Wash and cook two beets in boiling water until tender. 
Peel and cut iato cubes and marinate with the juice of one 
lemon. Peel one beet and cut into small cubes. Cover with 
114 cups of cold water and let simmer 10 or 15 minutes 
until the water is of a rich red color. Drain and measure. 
There should be one cupful. Soak the Vegetable Gelatine 
in warm water 20 minutes. Drain and put to cook in the 
boiling water. Cook 8 to 10 minutes. Strain and add i/^ 
cup to the beet water. To this jelly add the beets and sliced 
olives. 

DraiQ the juice from one can of French peas and mari- 
nate the peas with the juice of one lemon. To one cupful 
of juice drained from the peas, add the remainder of the 
cooked Vegetable Gelatine. Then add the peas and fill a 
mold half full of this mixture. As this begins to solidify, 
add carefully enough of the beet mixture to fill the mold. 
When solidified, turn out upon a plate garnished with alter- 
nate slices of hard boiled egg and lemon. 

WATER LILY SALAD 

6 hard cooked eggs 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 tablespoon butter % teaspoon salt 

Cut eggs in halves lengthwise. Remove the yolks, mash 
and add butter, salt and the lemon juice. Cut each of the 

(7) 



168 THE NEW COOKERY 

halves of the whites lengthwise into three sections. Place 
these sections on a lettuce leaf around the central portion to 
represent the petals of a lily. In the center place a spoonful 
of the yolk mixture formed into a ball to represent the 
center of each lily. 

CHEESE SALAD 

Cut Neufchatel or yogurt cheese into oblong pieces 
three-fourths inch in length. Arrange on head lettuce and 
serve with French dressing. 

BULGARIAN SALAD 

1 cup chopped pecans 14 cup cream 

1 cup yogurt cheese, diced 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

% cup Mayonnaise 

Marinate the cheese and nuts with the lemon juice. Add 
the cream to the Mayonnaise Dressing and stir until smooth. 
Mix cheese and nuts with the dressing. Serve upon a 
lettuce leaf. 

RELISHES 

CHEESE BALLS 

1 jar of Yogurt cheese or 1 hard-boiled egg yolk 
1 cake Neufchatel cheese 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

1 tablespoon butter Milk 

Mash the cheese with a fork, add the butter, lemon juice 
and egg yolk. Mix well and add suflBcient milk to soften to 
a proper consistency for moulding. Shape into balls with 
ladle or with the hands or form into irregular shaped 
masses by dropping from a spoon. Place upon a lettuce 
leaf on a plate and sprinkle with a spoonful of chopped 
nuts. 



Yogurt Cheeie Salad. Celery Sandwichei. 



SALADS AND RELISHES 169 

CELERY RELISH 

1 quart can tomatoes 1 pint onions (chopped 

1 quart celery (chopped very fine) 

very fine) 2 tablespoons salt 

^ cup lemon juice 
Cook the tomatoes, celery and onions covered until very 
tender and quite thick. When almost done add the salt. 
Add the lemon juice at the very last. 

GRAPE CATSUP 

1 pound Concord grapes i/4 cup lemon juice 
% cup sugar 14 teaspoon cinnamon 

Wash the grapes and pick from the stem. Add enough 
water to keep from burning. Let boil until soft enough to 
press through a colander. Add the rest of the ingredients 
to this pulp and boil down to the desired consistency. 

CREAMED CHEESE ON WAFERS 

Mix Yogurt or Neuf chatel cheese with just enough cream 
to form into a heavy paste. Mix until smooth, form in 
rosettes by forcing through a pastry tube. Pipe the rosette 
in the center of a wafer or thin cracker and put a bit of 
colored jelly on two opposite comers, or if preferred, a 
small rosette may be piped on each comer and a bit of 
bright colored jelly placed in the center. 

MINT JELLY 

^ cup lemon juice 2 tablespoons mint 

2/3 cup sugar % package Vegetable Gela- 

214 Clips water tine (% oz.) 

Soak the mint in the lemon juice one hour, then strain 
and add the sugar and 1% cups cold water. Soak the 



170 THE NEW COOKERY 

Vegetable Qelatine in warm water 20 minutes or more. 
Strain and add to 1 cup of boiling water; let boil five to 
ten minutes. Strain and add to the other ingredients. 
Turn into molds wet with cold water and let stand until 
ready to serve. 

CUCUMBER JELLY 

1% cups cucumber pulp y^ cup lemon juice 

Vs package Vegetable Gela- 1 cup water 
tine (^ oz.) ^/^ teaspoon salt 

Few drops onion juice 
To prepare the cucumber pulp peel the cucumbers and 
grate; strain through a colander and press through as 
much liquid as possible. Add the lemon juice, the salt, and 
the onion juice. Prepare the Vegetable Gelatine by putting 
to soak in warm water 20 minutes or more. Drain and put 
to cook in the boiling water. Let cook five to ten minutes. 
Strain and add to the juices. Turn into molds wet with cold 
water. When firm, unmold and serve upon a lettuce leaf 
with or without a salad dressing. 

RUSSIAN TOAST 

1 cup cottage cheese % cup Mayonnaise Dressing 

2 slices bread 
Trim the crusts from the bread and cut into two oblong 
pieces. Toast to a nice brown and moisten slightly with hot 
water. Mix the cottage cheese with the mayonnaise and 
serve a spoonful upon each slice of the toast. This makes a 
nice relish and is said to have much the same fiavor as 
caviar. 

TURNIP PUREE 

2 cups grated turnip 2 tablespoons lemon juice 
1 teaspoon salt ^4 cup cream 

Wash, peel and grate a sufficient number of turnips to 
make two cups. New turnips are best for this recipe. To 



SALADS AND RELISHES 171 

the cream add the lemon juice and the salt and beat thor- 
oughly, then pour over the grated turnip. 

BUTTERMILK OR YOGURT JELLY 

y^ box Vegetable Gelatine I/2 cup thick cream 
1^ cups buttermilk or Juice and grated rind of 2 

Yogurt buttermilk lemons 

1 cup boiling water 

Prepare the Vegetable Gelatine according to General 
Directions for the Use of Vegetable Gelatine and cook in 
the one-half cup of boiling water. Add to the buttermilk, 
cream and lemon, then turn into molds to cool. When set, 
serve with mayonnaise dressing. 

TOMATO JELLY 

1 can tomatoes or V^ cups 1 teaspoon salt 

condensed tomato % cup lemon juice 

3 bay leaves % box Vegetable Gelatine 

1 medium sized onion 1 cup boiling water 

2 tablespoons sugar 

Put the tomatoes with the seasoning to cook until re- 
duced one-third, then rub through a colander. Prepare the 
Vegetable Gelatine according to directions, using the one 
cup of boiling water in which to cook it. When cooked 
and strained, add to the tomatoes, turn into molds, and set 
in a cool place. It may be cut into cubes or other fancy 
shapes if desired, and served as a garnish. May also be 
served as a salad with mayonnaise dressing. 

If condensed tomato is used it is only necessary to heat 
with the seasonings long enough to extract the flavor. 



172 THE NEW COOKERY 

CHILI SAUCE 

1 pint condensed tomato 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

^ cup lemon juice 14 teaspoon cloves 

4 tablespoons brown sugar 4 tablespoons grated onion 

Cook the condensed tomato slowly one-half hour. Add 
the grated onion, sugar, cloves, cinnamon and cook one-half 
hour longer. Then add the lemon juice. 

Canned tomatoes may be us^d instead of condensed 
tomatoes, in which case it will be necessary to use 3 pints. 
Cook them down until reduced to one pint. Rub them 
through a colander and proceed the same as above directed. 

SALAD DRESSINGS 

FRENCH SALAD DRESSING 

1 tablespoon lemon juice % teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons olive oil A few drops of onion juice 

Dissolve the salt in the lemon juice, add the onion and 
then the oil. If desired the oil or the lemon juice may be 
increased. 

COOKED MAYONNAISE OR BOILED DRESSING 

4 eggs 1/^ cup butter or olive oil 
% cup lemon juice 2 to 3 tablespoons water 

1 teaspoon salt 
Break the eggs into the inner portion of a double boiler 
and beat until the yolk and wHite are well blended, but not 
until foamy. Add the lemon juice, water, salt and lastly 
the oil or butter. Cook until the mixture begins to thicken, 
stirring all the time. Remove from the heat and cool at 
once. Should the dressing curdle, place in a pan of cold 



SALADS AND RELISHES 173 

water and beat vigorously with an egg beater. If the eggs 
are large 3 tablespoons water may be used ; if small only 2. 
If a more acid dressing is desired, as for Potato Salad, use 
1 cup of lemon juice and no water. 

A little sugar may be added, if desired. 

GOLDEN DEESSING 

1/4 cup pineapple, apple or 14 cup lemon juice 
other light colored fruit Ys cup sugar 
juice 2 eggs 

Beat the eggs sufficiently to blend the yolk and the white, 
but not until foamy. Add the lemon juice, the pineapple, 
apple, or other juice, and the sugar. Cook in a double 
boiler, stirring constantly until thickened, Set in cold 
water to cool. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

2 egg yolks 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

^ teaspoon salt 1 cup olive oil or salad oil 

Add the salt to the yolks of the eggs and beat with a 
dover egg beater until thoroughly blended, then add a drop 
or two of the oil, beat again and continue adding the oil, 
a very few drops at a time, beating meanwhile, until all the 
oil has been taken up. When it begins to thicken, however, 
add the oil a little faster and dilute with a little of the 
lemon juice. The lemon juice may be added whenever it 
becomes too thick. The success of this dressing depends 
upon having the ingredients cold and upon adding the oil 
slowly enough that it may be thoroughly emulsified before 
more is added. If it curdles, take another egg yolk, beat it 
until well blended and gradually add the curdled dressing 
to it in the same manner as the oil is added to the first egg 



174 THE NEW COOKERY 

yolk. When properly made, this is a thick dressing. Just 
before serving, add sufficient cream to make it of the desired 
consistency. If a more acid dressing is desired, more lemon 
juice may be added. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING 

2 tablespoons butter 3 egg yolks 

2 tablespoons flour i/^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup cream 2 tablespoons sugar 

V2 cup lemon juice 2 cups whipped cream 

Melt the butter in a double boiler, stir in the flour and 
then the cream (sour cream being preferable). Stir until 
it begins to thicken. Beat the egg yolks. Add salt, sugar 
and lemon juice. Turn into the thickened cream. Cook in 
a double boiler about five minutes or imtil the eggs begin 
to thicken. Cool and when cold fold in the whipped cream. 

CREAM MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

1 egg Ys teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons lemon juice i/^ tablespoon sugar 
2 tablespoons butter % cup cream 

Beat the egg lightly, add the lemon juice, salt, sugar and 
butter, and cook in a double boiler until it begins to thicken. 
Remove from the heat and chill. Add the cream. If the 
cream is heavy enough to whip, the whipped cream is pref- 
erable. This makes a nice dressing for fruit salads. 



CHAPTER XVI 

TOASTS 

SNOWFLAKE TOAST 

1 pint milk 4 tablespoons flour 

% cup cream 2 egg whites 

1 teaspoon salt Toasted bread 

Heat the milk to scalding in double boiler and moisten 
the flour with the cream a little at a time. Rub until 
smooth, then stir into the hot milk. Cook about 20 minutes. 
Add the salt and pour over the stiffly beaten egg whites, 
beating meanwhile. Moisten the toasted bread in a little hot 
milk or cream and pour over the toast the above sauce. 

CREAM TOAST 

1 pint milk (% or i/^ cream) 
4 slices of toasted bread. 

Heat the milk and cream to scalding in a double boiler, 
add salt and pour over the toasted bread. Serve in grain 
bowls with one-half cup of milk to each slice of bread. 

CREAMED TOAST 

1 pint milk 2 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon salt 

6 to 8 slices bread 

Make a thin White Sauce of the milk, butter, flour and 
salt. Toast the bread preferably until crisp. Pour over 
this the White Sauce. Serve at once. 

175 



176 THE NEW COOKERY 

YOGURT CHEESE RAREBIT 

1 cup yogurt cheese 1 egg 

1 cup cream 1 tablespoon flour 

% teaspoon salt 

Braid the flour in a little of the cold cream. Beat the 
egg. Add the remainder of the cream, the salt, and the 
braided flour; then add the cheese and cook in a double 
boiler or in the blazer of a chafing dish. Stir constantly 
while cooking. When thickened serve on small slices of 
toasted bread. 

Neuf chatel or cottage cheese may be used in place of the 
yogurt cheese. 

ASPARAGUS tip's ON TOAST 

Wash the asparagus carefully and remove the scales. 
Cut oflf the tough ends which may be used for soup. If 
wilted, let stand in cold water. Asparagus may be kept 
fresh and in good condition for some time by standing in 
water % inch deep or more, set in a cool place. 

Tie in bunches with soft tape and cook in boiling, salted 
water 10 minutes with the tips out of the water. Then 
lay the asparagus down so that it is wholly immersed 
and let boil for 5 minutes. 

Serve on slices of toast with melted butter or with any 
preferred sauce. 

CREAMED CELERY ON TOAST 

3 cups cut celery 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup milk 1 tablespoon flour 

% teaspoon salt 

Clean, scrape and cut enough celery to make 3 cups. 
Put this to cook in boiling, salted water, cover and cook until 



TOASTS 177 

tender, which will require about 45 minutes. Let the water 
boil away when done, leaving the celery with very little 
liquid. Prepare a thin White Sauce of the remaining in- 
gredients and pour over the celery. Prepare the toast by 
trimming the crust from thin slices of bread. Cut diagon- 
ally, making triangular shaped pieces of toast. Toast in a 
moderate oven until crisp. Dip slices of crisp toast into 
some hot milk or cream. Serve with a spoonful of the 
creamed celery upon each slice. 

CEEAMED SPINACH ON TOAST 

1 pint cooked or canned 1 cup White Sauce 

spinach % teaspoon salt 

Toast 

Drain the liquid from the spinach and chop. Prepare 
the White Sauce and add the spinach to it. Add salt and 
reheat. Trim the crusts from the bread. Cut into tri- 
angular shaped pieces and toast in a slow oven until crisp 
and nicely browned. Moisten it in a little hot milk or cream 
and serve a spoonful of the creamed spinach upon each slice. 
Garnish with slices of hard boiled egg, 

ONIONS ON TOAST 

1 dozen small Spanish 3 or 4 hard cooked eggs 

onions 1 pint White Sauce or 

6 slices toast Cream Sauce 

Remove the skins of the onions under cold water; put 
to cook in boiling, salted water, and boil 5 minutes; pour 
off the water, drain, and cover again with boiling, salted 
water; cook 1 hour, or until soft and tender throughout, 
but not so soft that the shape is lost. Drain and serve 2 
or 3 onions upon each slice of moistened toast. Prepare the 



178 THE NEW COOKERY 

sauce and serve 1 or 2 spoonfuls of it upon each serving. 
Garnish with slices of hard cooked eggs. 

GREEN LIMA BEAN TOAST 

2 cups stewed or canned 1 tablespoon flour 

green lima beans 1 tablespoon butter 

% cup milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 egg yolk 
Put the stewed or canned green lima beans through a 
colander. Make a White Sauce of the butter, flour, salt, 
and milk. Add the bean puree and pour over the beaten 
egg yolk. Cook until the egg has thickened. Serve over 
moistened slices of toasted bread. The toast should be 
moistened in hot milk or cream. 

CREAMED OKRA ON TOAST 

To cook the okra pods, put them in boiling water, using 
one teaspoon of salt to a quart of water; add one table- 
spoonful of lemon juice to the water also. Cook about one- 
half hour, or until the okra is tender. Drain the water from 
the okra, reserving one cup of it for the sauce. Prepare 
the sauce as follows : 

1 cup water from the okra 14 ^^P ^^^^ 
V2 cup cream % cup strained tomatoes 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons butter 

Heat the okra water, the cream and milk in a double 
boiler. Rub the flour and butter together and pour over 
it a little of the heated liquid, stirring meanwhile. When 
mixed thin enough to pour, turn this back into the re- 
mainder of the hot liquid. Set in a double boiler and stir 
until thickened. Add the salt and the strained tomato just 



TOASTS 179 

before serving. Place three or four of the okra pods on a 
nicely toasted slice of bread, for each serving, and over this 
pour a spoonful or more of the prepared sauce. 

BAKED TOMATO ON TOAST ^ 

6 slices of bread 1 tablespoon butter 

6 thick slices tomatoes % cup milk 

14 teaspoon salt 

Trim the crust from the bread and toast to a nice brown. 
Select firm and ripe tomatoes. Remove the stem end and 
cut into two or three slices according to the thickness of 
the tomato. The slices should be about three-fourths of an 
inch thick. Place the tomatoes in a buttered pan ; sprinkle 
with salt and dot each slice with a bit of butter. Bake 
twenty to thirty minutes in a moderate oven. Moisten 
the toast by dipping quickly into the hot milk. Place a 
slice of a baked tomato on each slice of toast. Garnish with 
a sprig of parsley. 

CEEAM TOMATO TOAST 

Prepare a Cream Tomato Sauce and pour over slices of 
toasted bread. 

FRENCH APPLE TOAST 

% cup milk CYs cream) 4 slices bread 

1 egg 1 cup apple sauce 

Beat the egg slightly and add milk. Dip the bread into 
this mixture. Place in a buttered pan and bake until nicely 
browned. Upon each slice of the toast serve one generous 
tablespoonful of the apple sauce. 



180 THE NEW COOKERY 

DATE TOAST 
2 cups dates 4 tablespoons milk 

Water 1 tablespoon cream 

Toast 
Immerse the dates in cold water, remove the stones and 
wash in hot water. Put the dates to cook in an equal 
quantity of boiling water. Let cook until the dates are very 
soft and quite thick. Put them through a colander and add 
the milk and cream. Pour this over crisp toasted bread. 

PRUNE TOAST 
Wash and soak sweet California prunes overnight in 
cold water. Then put on to cook on the back of the range 
and allow to simmer for one to two hours, or until per- 
fectly tender. Remove the seeds and rub the prunes 
through a colander. When ready to serve, dip thoroughly 
toasted slices of bread or zwieback quickly into hot milk. 
Serve as individual portions upon small plates. Over each 
slice put a spoonful of the prune puree. If desired, this 
may be served with thin cream. 

FRUIT TOASTS 
For each serving allow one slice of crisp toasted bread 
and one-half cup of a fruit sauce such as apple sauce, 
peach sauce, etc. If berries or fruit juices are used thicken 
with the cornstarch in the proportion of two teaspoons of 
cornstarch to one cup of the liquid or sauce. If desired, 
two slices of Breakfast Toast or one slice of zwieback may 
be substituted for the toasted bread. 

BANANA TOAST 
Peel very ripe bananas and mash through a sieve or 
colander. Proceed the same as for Fruit Toast except that 
the toasted bread should be moistened slightly with hot 
water or hot milk. 



CHAPTER XVII 

FRUITS AND FRUIT DESSERTS 

Too much cannot be said in favor of the use of fruits. 
They should form a part of every day's dietary and if 
possible a part of every meal. 

Their nutriment consists chiefly of the natural fruit 
sugars which are ready for absorption, hence are at once 
refreshing and cooling. 

Their acids are cleansing. Their mineral salts are alka- 
line and are valuable for improving the condition of the 
blood. 

They are especially valuable as an appetizer, as they 
appeal through the three senses — sight, smell and taste. 

They appeal through the sense of sight because of their 
charm of color and beauty of contour; they appeal to 
the sense of smell because of the pleasant aroma ; they ap- 
peal to the sense of taste through the ethereal substance 
producing the flavors. 

When fresh fruit is not obtainable, dried fruit may be 
used advantageously. 

Having been deprived of their moisture, the method of 
preparation should be such as to gain it back, hence they 
should be soaked in cold water for several hours, or if possi- 
ble, over night. 

The time of soaking may be shortened somewhat by 
pouring boiling water over the washed fruit and letting it 
stand for a few hours. The cooking should be slow and 
gentle. 

181 



DESSERTS 

The dessert seems to satisfy a natural craving for 
something dainty and tasty with which to finish the meal. 

Fruits lend themselves particularly well to the making 
of desserts, as they are light and easily digested and appeal 
to the appetite through the senses of sight, smell and taste. 

Heavy desserts rich in sweets and fats should never ac- 
company an otherwise hearty meal. "When such a dessert is 
served, a place should be reserved for it by making the 
rest of the meal correspondingly light. 

Fats inhibit the secretion of the hydrochloric acid of the 
gastric juice, hence when taken at the end of a heavy meal, 
have a tendency to retard digestion. 

Sweets stimulate the secretion of the hydrochloric acid, 
hence should be avoided by persons having a tendency to- 
ward hyperacidity. 

Cane sugar, including also beet sugar and maple sugar, 
should be used in moderation, as strong solutions of 
it have an irritating effect upon the alimentary tract. 
Many persons find it necessary to eliminate it entirely from 
the dietary. 

FRUIT MACEDOINE 

3 oranges 1 can sliced pineapple 

3 bananas Powdered sugar 

Lemon juice 

Peel the oranges deep enough into the flesh to remove all 
the white skin. Slice into half-inch slices, then cut into 
small cubes. Drain the juice from a pint can of pineapple 
and cut the slices into small triangular shaped pieces. 

Peel the banana and cut into half-inch cubes. Mix the 
fruits and put into stemmed sherbet glasses. Pour over 
each serving about a teaspoon of lemon juice, also a tea- 

182 



DESSERTS 183 

spoon or more of powdered sugar. This makes a delight- 
ful ** first course" for dinner or luncheon. 



GRAPE FRUIT COCKTAIL 

Peel a grape-fruit as you would an apple, taking off all 
the white skin. Remove the meat from each section and 
cut into small pieces. Keep on ice until thoroughly chilled. 
Place a large spoonful into a cocktail glass and pour over it 
a spoonful of chilled orange juice. Just before serving 
sprinkle over all a heaping teaspoon of powdered sugar. 

FRUIT COCKTAIL 

14 pound Tokay grapes 1 cup diced apples 

1 cup diced pineapple % cup pineapple juice 

Vs cup lemon juice 

"Wash the grapes, pick from the stem and remove the 
seeds. To remove the seeds, cut the grapes lengthwise into 
quarters. After removing the seeds, cut each quarter iato 
half crosswise, making eight pieces of the grapes. Cut the 
pineapple into small cubes. The canned pineapple serves 
very nicely for this purpose, though fresh pineapple may be 
used instead. Peel the apples and cut into small cubes and 
mix immediately with the lemon juice to prevent discolora- 
tion. Add the pineapple juice and the other fruits. Let 
this stand on ice two or three hours until the flavors are 
well blended. Just before serving place the fruit in stemmed 
sherbet glasses and pack in ice in compote dishes. On 
top of the fruit pipe a rosette of whipped cream through the 
star-shaped pastry tube. The cream should be slightly 
sweetened and flavored with a little lemon or almond ex- 
tract. 



184 THE NEW COOKERY 

MACEDOINE OF FEUIT 

1 grape fruit 2 oranges 

Powdered sugar 

Cut the fruit in halves and remove the flesh of the fruits 
Cut into small pieces. Serve in stemmed sherbet glasses, 
using about four tablespoonfuls of the mixture for a serv- 
ing. Sprinkle over the top, just before serving, some 
powdered sugar. This makes a very nice first course. 

SEGMENTED ORANGES WITH WHIPPED CREAM 

.Peel an orange deep enough to remove all the white por- 
tion. In other words, cut down into the flesh of the orange. 
With a sharp knife remove each section by cutting down 
between the skin which holds it. That is to say, cut the 
orange in such a way that the section cau be removed^ 
leaving all of the white portion. Arrange these sections in 
a serving dish, sprinkle lightly with sugar and serve with 
whipped cream. 

COCOANUT DATES 

1 dozen stoned dates 2 tablespoons shredded 

3 English walnuts cocoanut 

2 tablespoons icing 

Insert ^ of a walnut meat in the date. Dip in thin 
icing, and roll in shredded cocoanut. 

BANANA DESSERT 

4 bananas 1 cup whipped cream 

Put the bananas through a colander. Beat the bananar 
to a stiff froth, and serve with whipped cream. 



DESSERTS 185 

PEACHES AND CEEAM WITH RICE BISCUIT 

Select thoroughly ripened peaches or whole halves of 
canned fruit. Place a half peach on a toasted rice biscuit 
and serve immediately with whipped cream. 

STEWED PRUNES 

Wash ^ pound of prunes, soak them in 1 quart of cold 
water for several hours, cook slowly until tender in the 
water in which they were soaked. Add % cup sugar, 1 
tablespoonful lemon juice for each 2 cups prunes. Cook 
5 minutes. 

BAKED BANANAS 

Remove the skins from the required number of bananas 
and scrape to remove all fuzzy portion next to the skin. 
Beat one egg and add two tablespoons of milk or water. 
Dip the bananas into the beaten egg, then into toasted bread 
crumbs. Place on an oiled pan and bake in a moderate oven 
thirty to forty minutes, or until perfectly tender. Baked 
l)ananas are a very wholesome dish, but raw bananas are 
sometimes troublesome unless very ripe. 

BAKED PEARS 

8 medium sized pears % cup brown sugar 

Butter 

Select firm and ripe pears, without blemish. Cut in 
Tialves lengthwise. Remove the core and sprinkle with 
brown sugar, using a tablespoonful for each pear. Dot each 
lialf with two or three small bits of butter. Bake until 
tender and nicely browned in a moderate oven. Serve with 
-or without whipped cream. 



186 THE NEW COOKERY 

BAKED APPLES 

6 medium sized apples 1 cup water 

1 lemon % cup sugar 

Wipe, core and pare the apples. Put apples in baking 
dish with a slice of lemon on top of each. Make a syrup of 
the sugar and water. Pour around the apples, cover and 
bake slowly until soft. Serve cold with cream, or with 1 
teaspoon jelly in the center of each apple. If desired the 
apples may also be flavored with cloves, by sticking four 
cloves in the side of each apple at an even distance apart. 

Sweet apples are always tough when cooked. The acid 
of the lemon helps to soften the cellulose of the apple. The 
skins of the apple break when baking, because the steam in 
the apple must escape, therefore it forces an opening in the 
thinnest part of the skin. A line cut around the center of 
the apple will prevent its breaking. Basting apples while 
cooking makes the skin tender. 

Steamed apples are served for baked apples in many of 
the best hotels and restaurants, as they retain their color 
and flavor much better than when baked. 



BAKED APPLES WITH MELTOSE DRESSING 

Select sweet apples of the same degree of hardness and 
remove the cores. Unless the skins are very tender, it is 
best to pare them. Water sufiicient to cover the bottom of 
the baking dish should be added if the fruit is not juicy. 
Bake in a quick oven. Cover the first ten minutes, then 
remove the cover and finish baking. Serve with Meltose 
Dressing. 



DESSERTS 187 

APPLE TAPIOCA 

14 cup pearl tapioca (or 1 quart quartered apples 
minute tapioca) i/^ cup sugar 

3 cups water 

Soak the tapioca, unless the minute tapioca is used. 
Cook in 1 cup water until the tapioca^ is transparent. Pour 
it over the apples in a baking dish. Add sugar and 2 cups 
water and bake slowly. 

MAPLE APPLE 

1 cup maple syrup 1 cup water 

4 medium sized apples 

Pare and core the apples. Heat the water and syrup to 
the boiling point. Drop the apples into the heated liquid, 
turning often in order to insure cooking uniformly. Re- 
move the apples when tender. Allow the liquid to cook 
down to a syrupy consistency, and pour over the apples. 

ALMOND APPLE 

8 tart apples 14 pound almonds 

114 cups sugar 1 lemon 

iy2 cups water 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

Core and pare the apples. Cut the lemon in half and 
rub the apples with the lemon to prevent discoloration. 
Make a syrup of the sugar and water. Cook the apples in 
the syrup. Remove from the syrup when done, and place 
in a pudding dish. Press obliquely into them the blanched 
almonds split into halves. Dredge the apples and almonds 
with sugar, and brown in the oven. Add 1 cup water and 1 
teaspoon lemon juice to the syrup. Moisten the cornstarch 
with a little cold water and add to the hot syrup. Cook 5 



188 THE NEW COOKERY 

minutes. Place the apples in a serving dish and pour the 
syrup around them. Serve cold with or without whipped 
cream. 

BROWN BETTY (ScaUoped Apples) 

3 cups chopped apples ^ teaspoon nutmeg 

2 cups bread crumbs Juice and rind of i^ lemon 

% cup sugar % cup water 

^ teaspoon cinnamon 2 tablespoons butter 

Mix the sugar with the spices. Arrange one-half of the 
crumbs in the bottom of the pan. Place one-half of the 
apples, one-half of the sugar and one-half of the lemon 
juice, also one-half of the melted butter over them, then 
one-fourth of the bread crumbs and the remainder of the 
apples, the sugar, the lemon and the melted butter. 
Over aU this pour the water. (If apples are very juicy, 
omit part or all of the water.) Cover with the remaining 
fourth of the bread crumbs. Put in a moderate oven, cover 
and bake until the apples begin to get tender, then remove 
the cover. 

HONEY APPLES 

6 medium sized apples 6 teaspoons butter 

6 tablespoons honey 1 cup hot water 

Pare and core the apples ; place in a dripping pan and 
fill the center of each apple with one tablespoon of honey 
and one teaspoon of butter; add the cup of hot water; 
cover the pan and set in a rather quick oven. When the 
boiling point is reached reduce the heat so that the apples 
will cook gently. Turn the apples occasionally; a few 
minutes before the baking is finished remove the cover and 
let the apples brown slightly. Serve with or without whip- 
ped cream. 



DESSERTS 189 

APPLES WITH E0LLE15 OATS 

6 large apples 1 quart water 

1%: cups sugar 1 cup cooked rolled oats 

Cook the rolled oats according to directions for Rolled 
Oats. Pare the apples and cook in a syrup of the water and 
sugar. Turn frequently. When the apples are done, fill the 
centers with the cooked rolled oats. Boil down the syrup 
until of a rather thick consistency and pour over the 
apples. Other left-over cereals may be used in the same 
way. 

DATE AND APPLE FLUFF 

2 medium sized apples % cup dates 

1 egg white 

Peel, quarter and core the apples. Seed and wash the 
dates. Put the apples and the dates through a food chopper 
or chop very finely in a chopping bowl. Beat the egg white 
until stiflf and fold into the mixed apples and dates. Sweet, 
mealy apples should be used. 

STEAMED FIGS 

Wash the figs in hot water, cut off the stem and blossom 
ends, place in a steamer or in a colander over hot water, 
cover tightly and steam 20 to 30 minutes. Serve with or 
without cream. This is one of the most delicious ways of 
serving figs. 

STUFFED FIGS 

Select natural or pressed figs, remove the stems, and 
wash in hot water. Put in a steamer or colander over a dish 
of Sot water, cover closely and steam until thoroughly 
softened, then remove from the heat, and when cool stuff 
each fig with a walnut meat by making an opening in 



190 THE NEW COOKERY 

the side of the fig aJd enclosing the nut. Just before pack- 
ing, sprinkle the figs with granulated sugar. Boll each fig 
in an oiled paper. 

APRICOT FLUFF 

114 pounds dried apricots 1 egg white 

% cup whipping cream 

Wash the .apricots thoroughly and put to soak in cold 
water sufficient to cover and let stand for twelve hours or 
until soft. Put through a colander and add sugar. There 
should be 3 cups of the pulp. Beat the egg white until stiff 
and fold into the apricot pulp. Whip the cream and put a 
spoonful on top of each serving. 

PRUNE FLUFF 

1% pounds dried prunes 1 egg white 

% cup whipping cream 

Wash the prunes and let stand in boiling water a few 
minutes. Drain and put to soak in cold water sufficient to 
cover. Let soak for from twenty-four to thirty-six hours 
or until the prunes are soft. Drain off the liquid. Re- 
move the stones and put the prunes through a colander. 
This quantity should make 3 cups of pulp. Beat the egg 
white until stiff and fold into the prune pulp. Whip the 
cream and serve a spoonful on each portion. Serve in 
stemmed sherbet glasses. 

RICE WITH PRUNE FLUFF 

1/2 cup rice 1 egg white 

21/4 cups dried prunes % cup whipping cream 

2 tablespoons sugar 2/3 cup water 

2/3 cup milk % cup cream 

Wash the prunes thoroughly; % pound will make 
the required amount. Pour over them boiling water 



DESSERTS 191 

and let stand a few minutes, and then put to soak in 
cold water and let soak 24 to 36 hours, or until soft. Ee- 
move the seeds, rub the prunes through a colander. Steam 
the rice in 2/3 of a cup of water until it is absorbed. Then 
add the cream and the hot milk, and steam until tender. 
Add the sugar and the beaten egg white to the prune puree. 
Place a spoonful of the steamed rice on a small plate. On 
top of this and beside it place a generous spoonful of the 
fluff with a heaping spoonful of whipped cream on top. 

If the whipped cream is not convenient, plain cream may- 
be used. 

PRUNE WHIP 

2 cups prune pulp 2 egg whites 

Meringue 
2 egg whites 4 tablespoons powdered sugar 

1 dozen pecan meats 

Cook California sweet prunes until tender and quite 
dry. Put through a colander to make the pulp. Beat 
the egg whites stiff and fold into the pulp. Put 
into a baking dish, set in a pan of hot water, and bake 30 
to 40 minutes in a moderate oven or until set. Make the 
meringue by beating the egg whites stiff and adding the 
powdered sugar. Spread lightly on the top and arrange 
on this the nut meats. Place in a moderate oven a few 
minutes until the meringue is set. 

If the sweet prunes are not obtainable, a little sugar may 
be added to the pulp. 

HYDBATED APBICOTS 

1 pound dried apricots 2% cups water 

Look the apricots over carefully. Wash and put to soak 
in 2^ cups of water for twelve hours. When thoroughly 
softened add sugar to taste and serve uncooked. 



i 92 THE NEW COOKERY 

HTDRATED PRUNES 
Prepare the same as for Hydrated Apricots. 

ORANGE BREAD DESSERT 

Cut the crusts from a % inch slice of fruit or graham 
bread. Spread with butter and over each put small cubes 
of orange, amounting to about one-half aa orange. On top 
of this put a spoonful of whipped cream. This simple des- 
sert may be varied by using different fruits, such as pine- 
apple, very ripe bananas, soaked or steamed prunes or other 
sauces. The addition of a spoonful of whipped cream makes 
a dainty dessert for what would otherwise be a plain sand- 
wich. 

FRUIT SANDWICH WITH WHIPPED CREAM 

Cut stale bread quite thin, cover with a layer of fruit, 
such as berries, sliced peaches, segmented oranges, sliced 
ripe banana, etc. On top of this spread another layer of 
bread, press firmly together, trim and serve with a generous 
helping of whipped cream. This is a very simple dessert, 
and a particularly good one for childrei^. 

DATE MARMALADE 

2 cups dates i/^ teaspoon grated orange 

% teaspoon grated lemon rind 

rind 2 teaspoons butter 

1/2 teaspoon cinnamon 
Immerse the dates in cold water. Remove the stones and 
wash in hot water. Put seeded dates to cook in an equal 
quantity of boiling water, together with the grated lemon 
rind and orange rind, and cook until tender and quite 
dry. Rub them through a colander and add the butter and 
powdered cinnamon. 



DESSERTS 193 

APEICOTS A LA CONDA 

Prepare the Steamed Rice recipe and turn into oblong 
pans. Let cool and cut into two-inch squares. Open a 
quart can of peeled apricots, add 1 cup sugar and cook 5 
minutes. Arrange a square of steamed rice on a dessert 
plate with two half apricots beside it. Pour over it a spoon- 
ful of the syrup from the apricots, and on top serve a spoon- 
ful of whipped cream. Chop pistachio nuts quite finely and 
sprinkle on top of the whipped cream. 

BANANA SNOW 

% cup minute tapioca or 1 cup sugar 
sago 3 egg whites 

1 quart water 3 diced bananas 

2 tablespoons lemon juice 

Cook the tapioca in the water until transparent. Add 
lemon juice and sugar and pour over the beaten egg white, 
beating constantly. Stir in the bananas which have been 
diced, not too finely. Cool and serve with cream or whipped 
cream. 

PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING 

% cup minute or pearl 1/4 cup lemon juice 

tapioca % cup sugar 

Cold water to cover 1 cup finely cut pineapple 

2% cups boiling water y^ teaspoon salt 

Soak the pearl tapioca in cold water to cover for several 
hours or use the minute tapioca which does not require 
soaking. Drain and add the boiling water and the salt. 
Cook in a double boiler until thoroughly transparent. Then 
add the sugar and lemon juice. Cut sliced pineapple into 
small pieces and stir into the tapioca. Serve cold. 



194 THE NEW COOKERY 

STEWED APEICOTS 

1/2 pound apricots ^ cup sugar 

Water 

Wash and sort the fruit, cover with cold water and soak 
several hours, or over night. Long soaking improves all 
dried fruits. Put to cook in enough water to cover and 
bring to the boiling point. Drain and cover again with 
cold water. Cook slowly until the apricots are tender, then 
add the sugar. Stir lightly and cook 5 minutes. Serve 
cold. 

GRAPE SAUCE 

1 pound Concord grapes 1 cup water 

y2 cup sugar 

Pick the grapes from the stems. Add the sugar and the 
water and cook gently until tender. 

QUINCE SAUCE 

1 quart of peeled and quartered quince 

2 quarts of peeled and quartered apples 
2 cups sugar 

Water to cover 
Cook until tender. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE 

1 pint cranberries 1 cup sugar 

1% to 2 cups water 

Pick over the cranberries very carefully, wash and put 
to cook in boiling water. Add the sugar and let cook slowly 
until the berries are soft and tender. The intense acidity of 
the berries may be partially obviated by first parboiling 
them. 



VEGETABLE GELATINE DESSERTS 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR THE USE OF VEGE- 
TABLE GELATINE 

Soak the Vegetable Gelatine in warm water for twenty 
to thirty minutes. Remove from this water and put to cook 
in boiling water, three cups to the box, keeping covered 
while cooking. Let it boil 8 to 10 minutes, or until it is 
perfectly clear. Strain through a wire sieve, or strainer. 

A box of the gelatine, will solidify eleven cups or nearly 
three quarts of liquid, inclusive of the water in which the 
gelatine is cooked. 

When a firm jelly which can be turned out of a mold, is 
desired, use 2 cups of liquid to 1 cup of cooked Vegetable 
Gelatine (l^ box cooked in 1 cup of boiling water). 

A more delicate jelly, which may be served in the dish in 
which it is cooled, is made by using 2^^ to 2% cups of liquid 
to 1 cup of cooked Vegetable Gelatine. 

Vegetable Gelatine hardens in a few minutes at ordinary 
room temperature. 

Do not remove the jelly from molds until ready to 
serve. 

LEMON JELLY 

% cup lemon juice % box (i^ oz.) Vegetable 

114 cups sugar Gelatine 

1% cups cold water 1 cup boiling water 

Prepare the Vegetable Gelatine as above directed, and 
cook in the boiling water. To the lemon juice add the sugar 
and cold water, and the cooked Vegetable Gelatine. Pour 
into molds which have been wet with cold water, and set 
in a cool place to mold. This may be served with or without 
whipped cream. 

195 



196 THE NEW COOKERY 

PINEAPPLE JELLY 

2 cups pineapple juice % box (^ oz.) Vegetable 

% cup lemon juice Gelatine 

l^^ cups sugar 1 cup boiling water 

To the pineapple juice add the lemon juice, the sugar and 
the Vegetable Gelatine cooked in the boiling water as above 
directed. Mold and serve as for lemon jelly. 

Other flavors may be made by using grape, cherry, 
strawberry, blackberry, raspberry, or other fruit juices 
in the place of the pineapple. 

FEUIT JELLY 

2 cups fruit juice % box (i/4 oz.) Vegetable 

1 cup sugar Gelatine 

^ cup lemon juice 1 cup boiling water 

Put the Vegetable Gelatine to soak for twenty minutes 
or more in warm water. Drain and put to cook in the boil- 
ing water. Let boil five to ten minutes, or until perfectly 
clear, and strain into the fruit juice to which has been 
added the sugar. Stir until the sugar is dissolved. Turn 
into molds wet with cold water and let stand until ready to 
serve, then unmold. 

ORANGE JELLY 

114 cups orange juice % cup cold water 

% cup lemon juice l^ box (% oz.) V^etable 

ly^ cups sugar Gelatine 

1 cup boiling water 
To the orange juice add the sugar, lemon juice, cold 
water, and the Vegetable Gelatine cooked in one cup of 
boiling water, according to above directions. Mold and 
serve as for lemon jelly. 



DESSERTS 197 

OEANGE MOLD 

Line molds with thin slices of orange, and pour into 
them orange or lemon jelly. Set on the ice until ready to 
serve. 

BANANA MOLD 

Prepare a lemon, pineapple or other fruit jelly. Slice 
bananas and line, the molds into which the jelly is to be 
poured by pressing the bananas against the sides and bottom 
of mold. When the jelly has cooled slightly, turn very 
slowly into the molds. When cold, turn out upon a dessert 
plate and serve with or without whipped cream. Other 
fruits may be substituted for the banana, viz., cherry, 
strawberry, raspberry, pineapple, etc. 

JELLIED PEACH 

6 peaches ^ cup lemon juice 

1 cup sugar % box (% oz.) Vegetable 

3 cups boiling water Gelatine 

3 dozen almonds 

Pare and cut into halves six nice peaches. Heat two 
cups of water and the sugar to boiling, add the peaches and 
cook until tender. »■ 

Remove and place each half peach in a sherbet glass or 
mold. 

Prepare a jelly, using the peach juice, of which there 
should be one and one-half cups (if deficient, add water to 
make the required amount) , the lemon juice, and 1 cup of 
water in which has been boiled the Vegetable Gelatine. 

The Gelatine should be previously soaked, thoroughly 
washed and drained. After the jelly has cooled until it 
begins to slightly thicken, pour slowly into the glasses 



198 THE NEW COOKERY 

or molds. When beginning to set, add to each glass two or 
three blanched almonds split in halves. 
Serve with whipped cream, if desired. 

JELLIED APEICOTS 

1 quart can apricots li/^ cups water 

% cup sugar y^ box (1/4 oz.) Vegetable 

1 tablespoon lemon juice Gelatine 

Put the Vegetable Gelatine to soak in warm water for 
twenty minutes or more. Drain and put to cook in one 
cup boiling water. Put the sugar and the remainder of the 
water to cook. Let boil two minutes and add to the apricots. 
Strain the cooked Vegetable Gelatine and add to the fruit. 
Also turn into molds wet with cold water and let stand 
until ready to serve: Unmold and serve with or without 
whipped cream. 

SPANISH CREAM 

l^ box Vegetable Gelatine 3 egg yolks 

1 cup boiling water ^^ cup sugar 

3 cups hot milk y^ teaspoon salt 

3 egg whites 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Prepare the Vegetable Gelatine by soaking in warm 
water about twenty minutes. Drain and put to cook in 
one cup of boiling water. Cook uncovered until reduced 
to three-fourths of a cup. Strain and add to the hot milk. 
Add the sugar and pour this mixture over the well beaten 
egg yolks. Cook in a double boiler until slightly thickened, 
stirring constantly. Remove from the fire, add the salt and 
flavoring. Pour this over the stiffly beaten whites of eggs, 
stirring meanwhile, and turn into a mold wet with cold 
water. Do not unmold until ready to serve. It will be- 
come firm in about half an hour. Serve with whipped 
cream. 



DESSERTS 199 

SALPICON OF FRUIT 

% cup strawberry juice % cup sugar 

% cup pineapple or orange 1 tablespoon lemon juice 
juice 1 cup water 

1/6 box Vegetable Gelatine 

Drain the juice from a pint can of strawberries and from 
a quart can of pineapple. Measure. To these add one-half 
of the water, the lemon juice and the sugar. If the 
fruit juices are very sweet, less sugar will be required. 
Cook the Vegetable Gelatine previously soaked and drained 
in the remaining half of the water. Strain and add to the 
fruit juices, then turn into stemmed sherbet glasses in 
which it is to be served. Decorate with triangular shaped 
pieces of pineapple or orange arranged while soft on top of 
the jelly so as to point toward the center of the dish. A 
candied cherry in the center also adds to the attractiveness. 
This may be served as a first course, or as a light dessert. 



(8) 



CHAPTEE XVITI 

CUSTARDS and COLD DESSERTS 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR CUSTARDS 

Custards are of two kinds, namely: 

Stirred or so-called Boiled, and Set or Cup Custards, 
which are not stirred during the cooking. 

Soft or stirred custards are always cooked in a double 
boiler. 

General Directions — Heat the milk, as this shortens the 
time of cooking and lessens the liability to curdle. Beat 
the eggs slightly, sufficient only to blend the yolk and white. 
Thoroughly mix the sugar with the eggs, then pour on slowly 
the hot milk, stirring meanwhile. Strain and cook as 
directed. As soon as done remove from the heat imme- 
diately and put to cool in water or in a cold place. If a 
soft custard, stir until cooked, then cool and add the flavor- 
ing. Always serve cold. 

TESTS FOR BEING DONE 

First — Custard should bake firm, or if a soft custard 
until thick. 

Second — The froth of the milk disappears when done. 

Third — If a soft custard, it coats the sides of the sauce 
pan. 

Fourth — If a soft custard, the mixture masks the back 
of a silver spoon. 

Fifth — ^If a set custard, a silver knife upon penetrating 
the center of the custard will come out clear without any 

200 



CUSTARDS AND COLD DESSERTS 201 

of the custard adhering to it, provided the skin of the cus- 
tard is first broken before plunging the knife into it. 

CUP CUSTARD 

4 eggs 14 teaspoon salt 

% cup sugar 1 quart milk (hot) 

A grating of nutmeg 

Beat the eggs until the yolks and whites are well mixed, 
add the sugar, salt, and milk and stir until the sugar is dis- 
solved, then strain into buttered cups or a baking dish. 
Sprinkle with nutmeg, and set in a pan of hot water. The 
water must not be allowed to reach the boiling point, else the 
custard will whey. When the custard is firm throughout, 
remove from the hot water and allow to cool. 

COCOANUT 

4 tablespoons shredded 2 cups milk 

cocoanut 2 tablespoons sugar 

2 eggs 
Put the cocoanut into the milk, place in a double boiler 
and steep 20 minutes. Strain and add the sugar. Beat the 
egg slightly, only enough to blend the yolk and white per- 
fectly, and pour the hot milk gradually into it. Strain 
again to remove small particles of the egg, pour into cus- 
tard cups, place in a pan of hot water and bake in a moder- 
ate oven, taking care not to cook too rapidly. When cooked 
sufficiently, so that when pierced by a silver knife it does 
not adhere, it should be removed at once from the heat 
and allowed to cool. Serve cold. 

CARAMEL CUSTARD 

3 cups hot milk 4 eggs 

1 cup cold milk % cup sugar 

Place one-half of the sugar in the sauce pan directly 



202 THE NEW COOKERY 

over the flame, melt and slightly brown, without stirring 
and without burning. It may be necessary to lift the pan 
from the flame occasionally. When thoroughly melted and 
slightly browned, add slowly the hot milk, stirring mean- 
while. See that the caramel is thoroughly dissolved with 
each addition of milk. To this add the remainder of the 
sugar. Beat the egg slightly, add the cold milk ; then the 
sweetened hot milk. Strain into custard cups or into a 
pudding dish. Set into a pan of hot water and bake in a 
cool oven until set. 

BREAD CUSTARD 

4 slices bread 3 eggs 

4 cups milk I/2 cup sugar 

Beat the eggs slightly, add the sugar and milk. Ar- 
range the bread in the bottom of the pan. Strain the 
custard mixture and pour over the bread. Bake slowly 
surrounded by hot water until set. Remove from the heat 
at once, and cool. 

TAPIOCA CUSTARD PUDDING 

% cup tapioca 2 eggs 

31/2 cups milk 1/^ cup sugar 

1 teaspoon lemon extract 

Put the tapioca to soak in cold water for several hours, 
drain and put to cook in three cups hot milk. Cook in a 
double boiler until the tapioca is soft and transparent. 
Beat the eggs, add the sugar and the remaining half cup of 
milk. Turn the hot milk and tapioca into these ingredients. 
Add the lemon extract and turn into a baking dish and bake 
until set. 



CUSTARDS AND COLD DESSERTS 203 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS 

2 cups bread crumbs 2 tablespoons butter 

1 quart hot milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Yolks 4 eggs 4 tablespoons powdered 

1 cup sugar sugar 

Whites of 4 eggs 

Soak the bread crumbs in the hot milk fifteen minutes or 
until soft. Beat the yolks of the eggs and sugar together. 
Add to the crumbs and the milk; add the butter. Mix 
thoroughly and add the vanilla. Pour into a buttered dish 
and bake in a moderate oven forty-five minutes or more. 
Whip the whites until stiff and add the powdered sugar. 
This must not be done, however, until the pudding is ready 
to come from the oven. When the pudding is done spread 
over the top a layer of fruit jelly or jam and cover with 
the beaten whites. Place in a moderate oven and bake until 
the meringue is set and nicely browned. Serve cold. 

FRENCH FLOATING ISLAND 

1 quart milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 tablespoons cornstarch 2 eggs 

2/3 cup sugar 1 cup whipped cream 

Moisten the cornstarch with a little of the cold milk. 
Heat the remainder of the milk and thicken with the corn- 
starch. Add the sugar and turn over the beaten eggs. 
When cool add the vanilla and serve in individual dishes. 
Serve a spoonful of whipped cream on each dish. 

LEMON CREAM 
1 pint milk 1 egg 

1 tablespoon cornstarch y^ cup sugar 

Grated rind one lemon 
Rub the cornstarch smooth with a little of the cold milk. 



204 THE NEW COOKERY 

Tie the grated lemon rind in a piece of cheese cloth and 
put to cook with the remainder of the milk. Heat in a 
double boiler. Add the cornstarch and cook an hour or 
more. Eemove the lemon rind and cool. Beat the egg 
slightly until the white and yolk are well blended. Add the 
sugar a little at a time and pour into this very gradually 
the thickened milk. Cook again in a double boiler for a few 
minutes. Cool and serve in sherbet glasses or custard cups. 

BAKED CARAMEL CUSTARD 

1 quart milk 2 eggs 

% cup sugar 3 tablespoons flour 

Heat 3 cups of milk in a double boiler. Moisten the 
flour with a little of the cold milk, and add to the hot milk. 
Add the remainder of the cold milk to the beaten eggs and 
14 cup of sugar. Caramelize the rest of the sugar, and 
dissolve it in the smallest amount of boiling water that 
will dissolve it. ' Add the hot milk to the caramelized sugar, 
then add this hot liquid to the eggs, stirring constantly. 
Turn into custard cups or a pudding dish and surround 
with hot water. The water must be as deep in the pan as 
the custard is in the pudding dish. Bake in a moderate 
oven until set. 

CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

3 tablespoons cornstarch 1 egg 

2 tablespoons cold water 3 tablespoons sugar 
1 pint milk % teaspoon vanilla 

Mix the cornstarch in cold water and pour into the hot 
milk. Stir until it thickens, and cook in a double boiler 
one hour or longer, stirring constantly. Beat the egg, add 
sugar and pour the hot mixture over it slowly. Return to 



CUSTARDS AND COLD DESSERTS 205 

the double boiler and cook until the egg thickens, stirring 
constantly. Add the vanilla and pour into molds that have 
been wet with cold water. This may be made without eggs 
by using 4 tablespoons cornstarch instead of three. An 
additional tablespoon of sugar may be used if desired. 

CAEAMEL CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

1 tablespoon sugar 2 tablespoons water 
% teaspoon salt 1 pint milk 

4 tablespoons cornstarch % cup caramel 

To prepare the caramel, melt one-half cup granulated 
sugar. Stir over the fire until it becomes a rather dark 
brown but clear color, taking care not to bum. Add one- 
half cup boiling water slowly and cook until the hardened 
sugar is dissolved. (Caramel may be bottled up and kept 
indefinitely, to be used for coloring and flavoring.) 

Heat the milk with the caramel in a double boiler. Mix 
sugar, salt and cornstarch and braid with the cold water. 
Turn the hot milk into the cornstarch, stirring meanwhile, 
and return to the double boiler and cook 45 minutes, stir- 
ring occasionally. Turn into molds or into a large dish. 
Serve with whipped cream or Mock Whipped Cream. 

CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE 

2 cups milk i/i cup Health Cocoa 
% cup sugar Vs cup cornstarch 

% teaspoon vanilla 

Blend the cornstarch with an equal amount of milk. 
Heat the remainder of the milk in a double boiler ; add the 
sugar and cocoa and vanilla. Add the moistened corn- 
starch, stirrins: until the milk has thickened. Cook one to 
two hours in the double boiler. Serve with Custard Sauce. 



206 THE NEW COOKERY 

COCOANUT BLANC MANGE 

4 tablespoons cornstarch 4 tablespoons sugar 

2 cups milk ^ cup cocoanut 

Moisten the cornstarch with 4 tablespoons of milk. 
Heat the remainder of the milk with the cocoanut. When 
the flavor is entirely extracted from the cocoanut, strain it 
out. Add the sugar and the moistened cornstarch. Stir 
until thickened, then cook in a double boiler one to two 
hours. Turn into individual molds wet with cold water or 
into a shallow, oblong pan and cut into squares. Serve with 
a fruit sauce or a custard sauce. 

SNOW PUDDING 

1 quart milk % cup com starch 

14 cup sugar % teaspoon salt 

4 egg whites 2 teaspoons vanilla 

Stir the cornstarch smooth with some of the milk. Add 
the sugar to the remainder of the milk and heat to scalding 
in a double boiler. Add the braided cornstarch and the 
salt. Cook 1 to 2 hours. Meanwhile beat the egg whites 
stiff, then gradually add the hot mixture to them, beating 
it in thoroughly. Add the vanilla. Pour into molds. When 
cold, unmold and serve with Raspberry Sauce, or Custard 
Sauce. 

DATE SURPRISE 

1 tablespoon butter 4 tablespoons cornstarch 

3 tablespoons sugar 1 cup chopped dates 

1 quart milk 1 teaspoon almond extract 

l^ teaspoon vanilla 

Heat milk and sugar in a double boiler. Mix the corn- 
starch in cold milk and stir into the hot milk. Cook twenty 



CUSTARDS AND COLD DESSERTS 207 

minutes. Add chopped dates. Remove from the heat and 
add almond and vanilla extract. Serve with whipped 
cream with a seeded date on top. 

INDIAN TRIFLE 

3 tablespoons rice flour or 3 cups milk 

cornstarch 4 tablespoons sugar 

3 tablespoons white com- y2 cup shaved citron 

meal i/^ teaspoon cinnamon 

Mix the rice flour and cornmeal. Scald milk and pour 
slowly over the flour and meal. Stir over the fire until 
quite thick. Add sugar, citron and cinnamon and cook in 
double boiler 2 or 3 hours. Turn into molds or a glass dish 
and serve with Custard Sauce. 

PLAIN RICE PUDDING 

5 cups milk % teaspoon salt 

% cup rice % cup sugar 

Grated rind of Yo lemon 

Wash the rice, mix ingredients and pour into a buttered 
dish. Bake 3 hours in a very slow oven, stirring three 
times during the first hour to prevent rice from settling. 
Should not brown the first hour. Stir at the end of the 
second hour. The milk should be like thin cream. If this 
pudding is to be served quickly use 4 cups of milk instead 
of 5, but it is better to use 5, and cook longer. 

CREAM OF RICE PUDDING 

1 quart milk y^ cup sugar 

% cup rice - 1 egg 

Cook the rice in the milk until it begins to get tender. 
Beat the eggs slightly, add sugar and turn some of the 



208 THE NEW COOKERY 

cooked rice into them, stirring meanwhile. Turn the eggs 
back into the remainder of the rice and bake until set, taking 
care not to overcook. It should be creamy when done. 

RICE PUDDING WITH ORANGE COMPOTE 

V2 cup rice i/^ cup sugar 

V2 cup boiling water % teaspoon salt 

21/^ cups hot milk 1 teaspoon orange or va- 

Yolks 4 eggs iiilla flavoring 

y2 teaspoon lemon juice 

Pick over and wash the rice until clear. Add it to the 
boiling water. Let boil five minutes, then add the hot milk. 
Cook in a double boiler until dry and the rice is soft. 
Cream the eggs and the sugar together. Add the salt, the 
lemon juice, and the flavoring, and fold into the rice. Cook 
eight minutes, stirring occasionally, very carefully. Chill 
and serve with Orange Compote. 

ORANGE COMPOTE 

V2 dozen oranges 1 pound sugar 

14 tablespoon lemon juice % cup water 

Put the sugar and water on to boil. Cook ten minutes 
and add the lemon juice. Peel the oranges deeply so as to 
remove all the white skin. Cut in halves lengthwise and 
cut out the core with scissors or a sharp knife. Place a 
few halves at a time in the hot syrup. Cook two minutes. 
Lay on a flat dish singly. Pour over the remaining syrup 
and put the platter on ice. Serve a half orange with each 
individual serving. If preferred the oranges may be sliced 
pnd cooked only a few seconds. 



CUSTARDS AND COLD DESSERTS 209 

COMPOTE OF FRUIT WITH RICE 

Prepare one-third of the Steamed Rice recipe. 

Prepare a fruit dressing of the following ingredients : 
1/4 cup pineapple juice i/^ cup sugar 

% cup boiling water y^ tablespoon cornstarch 

Braid the cornstarch in a little cold water. Stir into the 
boiling water and cook slowly for 15 to 20 minutes, or if 
possible, an hour or more in a double boiler. Add the sugar 
and the pineapple juice and reheat. Add i^ cup of diced 
pineapple, 8 to 10 California cherries (canned or fresh) 
cut into small pieces, y^^ cup diced bananas and 2 table- 
spoons lemon juice. 

Malaga grapes may be used in place of the cherries, if 
desired. 

Serve a spoonful of steamed rice in a stemmed compote 
dish and on top of it place a generous spoonful of the 
fruit compote. 

ORANGE FLUFF 

Vz cup sugar Vt cup orange juice 

5 tablespoons cornstarch 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 pint boiling water 3 ^g'g whites 

Mix the cornstarch and sugar. Stir into the boiling 
water. Stir constantly and cook directly over the fire until 
it thickens. Put in a double boiler and cook from one to two 
hours. Cornstarch cooked from one to two hours loses the 
raw taste which is objectionable to many people. Add the 
fruit juice and pour over the beaten ^%^ white. Stir until 
thoroughly mixed, then pour into molds wet with cold 
water. Serve with a sauce made as follows : 
1/4 cup butter % cup water 

% cup sugar 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

3 ^^'g yolks 14 ^^P o^a-iige juice 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 



210 THE NEW COOKERY 

Moisten the cornstarch with a little cold water and stir 
into one-half cup of the boiling water. Then set in a double 
boiler and cook one to two hours. Cream the butter and add 
the sugar gradually, then the egg yolks which have been 
beaten slightly. Add the remaining one-quarter cup of 
boiling water. Turn all slowly into the cooked cornstarch 
and cook until the egg thickens slightly. Eemove from the 
fire and add the orange and the lemon juice. Serve cold. 

SALTED ALMONDS 

1 pint water 1 cup almonds 

Yo cup salt 2 teaspoons butter or oil 

Blanch the almonds. Heat the salt and water and when 
boiling add the nuts. Cook eight minutes. Drain, place 
them in a baking pan and put the butter or oil over them 
with a brush. Bake until a delicate brown. Stir fre- 
quently. 

CREAM PUFFS 

1 cup hot water 1^ cups white flour 

1/2 cup butter 5 eggs 

% teaspoon salt 

Heat the butter and water to boiling. Add the flour all 
at once and mix thoroughly. Cook five minutes, stirring 
constantly, and set aside to cool. When cool add the eggs 
unbeaten, one at a time, and mix thoroughly before another 
is added. Drop by tablespoons upon a buttered baking 
sheet and bake in a moderate oven 25 minutes, or until light 
when lifted from the pan. To fill, remove a portion of the 
top, leaving it attached at one side, and fill with a spoon 
or with a pastry tube. 



CUSTARDS AND COLD DESSERTS 211 

FILLING FOR CBEAM PUFFS 

Vs cup flour 7/8 cup sugar 

2 cups hot milk % teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 

11/2 teaspoons butter 

Moisten the flour with a little cold milk, and add this to 
the hot milk. Cook 15 to 20 minutes in a double boiler. 
Beat the eggs, sugar and salt together. Add them to the 
hot liquid, stirring while so doing. Return to the double 
boiler and cook until the egg thickens. Add the butter and 
remove from the heat. Cool and add the flavoring. 

MAPLE MARGUERITES 

1 egg white l^ cup water 

11/^ cups brown sugar 14 to % teaspoon maple 

V4 cup chopped walnut • flavoring 

meats Crackers 

Boil the sugar and water together until it threads or, 
when dropped into cold water, will form a soft ball. Allow 
the syrup to cool for a moment or two, add the flavoring, 
and then turn over the stiffly beaten white and continue 
beating until of the proper consistency to spread. Add 
half of the nuts, and. drop by spoonfuls upon the crackers. 
While still fresh, sprinkle over the remainder of the chopped 
nuts. 

APPLE SNOW BALLS 

11/^ cups rice 6 to 8 apples 

3% quarts water 2 tablespoons sugar 

3% teaspoons salt 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Cook the rice in boiling salted water, drain and dry. 
Wash, core and pare the apples, wring out small pudding 



212 THE NEW COOKEIJY 

cloths, or squares of cheese cloth in hot water. Spread the 
rice l^ inch over the cloth, place apples in the center with 
1 teaspoon of sugar in 1/6 teaspoon of cinnamon in the 
center. Draw up the cloth around the fruit until it is 
covered with rice. Tie in the apples, being careful not to 
have the rice and cloth in folds, and steam until fruit is 
tender, i^^ to % of an hour. Serve with Lemon Sauce or 
cream. 

PINEAPPLE CREAJVI DESSERT 

% cup rice 1 cup cream 

2 slices Hawaiian pineapple 2 tablespoons sugar 

Boil the rice until tender but not broken. Drain and dry 
for about five minutes in a moderate oven and cool. Cut 
the pineapple into small pieces, add the sugar. Stir the 
rice occasionally as it is cooling to prevent its packing. 
When the mixture is thoroughly cold, whip the cream until 
stiff. Heavy cream is preferable, but thin cream may be 
made to whip if thoroughly chilled. (See directions for 
Whipped Cream.) Fold the whipped cream into the mix- 
ture. 



CHAPTER XIX 

FROZEN DESSERTS 

GENERAL RULES FOR FREEZING 

SCALD AND CHILL the can, cover and dasher of the freezer. 
Adjust the can carefully in the tub. Pour in the 
mixture, put in the dasher, cover, adjust the crank and 
pack with finely chopped ice and coarse salt. Use three 
times as much ice as salt for freezing; use four times as 
much ice as salt in packing. The ice and salt must be higher 
around the can than the mixture to be frozen is within the 
can. 

In freezing milk or cream mixtures the crank should be 
turned slowly and steadily; in freezing sherbet the crank 
should be turned rapidly and steadily; in freezing water 
ice or frozen fruit, turn the crank steadily five minutes; 
allow it to stand five minutes ; turn again five minutes and 
continue until freezing is completed. 

When mixture is frozen, remove ice and salt from 
around the top of the can; wipe cover and top; uncover 
and remove dasher; then beat frozen mixture thoroughly 
with wooden spoon or paddle; place paraflfine paper or 
heavy paper over can; cover and put a cork in the hole. 
Drain oflf all the water which has collected during the 
freezing and which should not be removed until freezing is 
completed; repack the freezer, putting ice and salt over 
the top, cover with carpet, blanket or newspaper and allow 
it to stand in a cold place several hours. 

A tightly covered tin can and a wooden pail may be 

213 



214 THE NEW COOKEliY 

substituted for an ice cream freezer, using a wooden spoon 
or paddle to scrape the mixture from the sides and bottom 
of the can as it freezes. 

In preparing frozen fruit or water ice, the sugar and 
water should be made into a syrup, which should be boiled 
five minutes, then strained. 

STRAWBERRY GELEE 

4 cups crushed strawberries 1 quart water 

or strawberry juice 2/3 box (% oz.) Vegetable 

21/^ to 3 cups sugar Gelatine 

1 cup lemon juice 4 egg whites 

Crush the strawberries and add the sugar, lemon juice, 
and one pint of water. Put the Vegetable Gelatine to soak 
in warm water for twenty minutes or more. Drain. Put 
to cook in one pint of boiling water. Let boil five to ten 
minutes or until perfectly clear. Strain and add to the 
crushed berries. Turn into a freezer and stir about 5 
minutes. Beat the egg whites stiffly and when the mixture 
is beginning to freeze, fold in the egg whites. Continue 
freezing. 

If preferred the Vegetable Gelatine may be omitted. In 
that case, add a quart of water to the crushed berries in- 
stead of one pint. Other fruits may be used in place of the 
strawberries. 

LEMON GELEE 

1 2/3 cups lemon juice 7 cups water 

2% cups sugar 1 box Vegetable Gelatine 

Whites of 4 eggs 

Prepare the Vegetable Gelatine according to general di- 
rections, using three cups of boiling water in which to cook 
it. While this is cooking, put together the lemon juice, 



FROZEN DESSERTS 215 

sugar and 1 quart of water. Strain the Vegetable Gelatine 
through cheese cloth or a sieve, and add to the mixture. 
Put into the freezer until thoroughly chilled, but not con- 
gealed. Then add the stiffly beaten egg whites and continue 
freezing. 

The above amount will make 1 gallon. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM 

2 cups water 1 pint can grated pineapple 
1 cup sugar 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

2 cups whip from cream 

Make a syrup of the sugar and water, add the grated 
pineapple, and lemon juice. Freeze slightly, then add the 
whip from cream and continue freezing. 

YOGURT ICE CREAM 

3 cups yogurt buttermilk 1 cup water 

5 cups cream % cup orange rind (very 

% teaspoon salt thin) 

1 cup pineapple juice 1 cup orange juice 

1% cups sugar % cup lemon juice 

1 cup grated pineapple 

Make a syrup of the sugar, water and orange rind. Mix 
the fruit juices, grated pineapple, salt and buttermilk. 
Pour the syrup through a strainer into this. Mix well, 
freeze slightly, add the cream, and finish freezing. 

CRANBERRY SHERBET 

1 egg white 3 pints water 

4 cups sugar Juice 1 lemon 

2 quarts cranberries 

After looking over the berries carefully, cover them 
with hot water and let cook until tender. Strain this 



216 THE NEW COOKERY 

through a colander or sieve sufficiently fine to exclude the 
seeds. Add the sugar and cook until dissolved, then add 
the lemon juice and turn into a freezer. When the ingredi- 
ents are thoroughly chilled add the beaten egg white and 
continue freezing. This sherbet should not be allowed to 
stand in the freezer for any length of time. 

PEACH SHERBET 

1 quart peach puree 14 ^^P Icnaon juice 

iy2 Clips orange juice 1 cup water 

iy2 cups sugar Whites of 2 eggs 

Select nice ripe peaches, pare and put a sufficient num- 
ber through a colander to make one quart. To this add 
the orange juice, sugar, lemon juice and water. Turn into 
the freezer and chill thoroughly, then add the stiffly beaten 
egg whites and continue freezing. 

ORANGE WATER ICE 

1 quart water 2 cups orange juice 

2 cups sugar 14 cup lemon juice 

Chipped rind of 2 oranges 

Chip off the pieces of orange rind with a knife, being 
careful not to get any of the white portion. Prepare a 
syrup from the water and sugar and let the orange rind boil 
in it. Strain through a cheese cloth and add to the fruit 
juices. Chill and freeze. 

FROZEN PEACHES 

2 quarts fresh ripe peaches Juice of II/2 lemons 
2 cups sugar 1 quart water 

Scald the peaches. Remove the skins and the pits and 
rub the fruit through a colander. Boil the sugar and water 



FROZEN DESSERTS 217 

together for five minutes and let cool. To the syrup add 
the peach pulp and the lemon juice. Turn into a freezer. 
Stir until firm. 

MILK SHERBET 

1 quart milk 2 cups sugar 

% cup lemon juice 

To the milk add the sugar and stir until dissolved. 
Have ready the freezer packed with salt and ice. Just 
before turning into the freezer add the lemon juice, stir. 
If the milk curdles it will come smooth in the freezing. Do 
not let this mixture stand in the freezer long after freezing. 
Unless certified milk is used, the milk should be scalded and 
then cooled. 

PINEAPPLE FRAPPE 

2 cups water 2 cups ice water 

1 cup sugar 1 can grated pineapple or 

Juice of 3 lemons « 1 pineapple shredded 

Make a syrup by boiling the water and sugar together 
fifteen minutes. Add pineapple and lemon juice. Cool, 
strain, add ice water and freeze to a mush, using equal 
parts salt and ice. If fresh fruit is used, more sugar will be 
required. 

GRAPE SHERBET 

1 quart grape juice i^ cup sugar 

1/4 cup lemon juice 2 cups cream 

To the grape juice add the sugar and lemon juice. Stir 
until the sugar is dissolved. Turn into a freezer and 
chill. When beginning to freeze add the cream and con- 
tinue to freeze until firm. 



CHAPTER XX 

PASTRY AND PIES 

BECAUSE of the large amount of fat used in its prepara- 
tion, pastry rightly deserves the reputation it has 
gained of being a rich and of ttimes indigestible dessert. 

The heavy under-done lower crust is also an objection- 
able feature, but these faults may be obviated by the proper 
selection and manipulation of materials. 

When practical, the under crust should be baked before 
filling. This applies to pies with a single crust and with 
a cooked filling such as lemon, cocoanut cream, etc. 

Pies with an under crust only and an uncooked filling 
may usually be partially cooked before filling. 

Pies made with two crusts may have the lower crust pro- 
tected by glazing it with slightly beaten egg white diluted 
with a tablespoon of water. It should then be placed in 
the oven for two or three minutes to harden the egg. This 
prevents soaking of the crust. 

Granola, a thoroughly cooked cereal, may be moistened 
with cream and pressed into shape for an under crust, where 
only a single crust is desired and a thickened filling is used. 

All materials should be as cold as possible. 

Pastry or winter wheat flour is preferable. Butter and 
cream are undoubtedly the most wholesome fats. Nut meal, 
finely divided nuts, is also an excellent fat. 

The fat may be mixed with the flour by one of three 
methods, viz., by chopping the fat into the flour with a 
knife, by working it in with a spoon, pressing the ma- 
terials against the sides of the bowl ; or by working it in 

218 



PASTRY AND PIES 219 

with the finger tips. The first and second methods are pre- 
ferable, as the heat from the hands warms the materials. 

Mix the materials by pouring the cold water or cream 
slowly into the flour and butter, mixing a small amount at a 
time. Then press these soft masses together, turn out upon 
a slightly floured board and roll lightly in one direction 
only, if possible. Do not roll back and forth or turn the 
dough over. KoU on one surface only. Manipulate the 
dough as little as possible, as this makes it tough. 

Fit dough closely to the pie tin and prick the bottom 
with a fork to prevent puffing. A perforated pie tin in- 
sures a more thoroughly baked crust. 

GRANOLA CRUST 

% cup granola % cup cream 

Have ready all of the materials and the utensils before 
beginning to make this crust. Stir the cream into the 
Granola and turn immediately into the pie tin. With a 
spoon push the materials into place, shaping them to the 
pan. Do not wait for the Granola to take up the cream 
before beginning to shape it, otherwise it will be too dry 
to manipulate before it is finished. The Granola is a 
thoroughly cooked preparation, hence needs no further 
cooking. The filling may be placed into the shaped crust and 
baked 10 to 15 minutes in order to thoroughly heat all the 
materials. 

NUT MEAL CRUST OR NUT MEAL PASTRY 

11/2 cups white flour % cup cream 

1 cup nut meal ^4 teaspoon salt 

Mix the flour, salt and nut meal together. Add the 

cream, gradually forming the ingredients into small masses. 

Press these together. Roll out and bake the same as for 

plain pastry. 



220 THE NEW COOKERY 

PLAIN PASTRY 

1^ cups pastry flour y^ to V2 cup butter 

y^ teaspoon salt y^ cup ice water 

Mix in the order given. 

All the materials must be as cool as possible. Sift the 
salt into the flour. Rub in the butter with a knife, spoon, or 
the tips of the fingers. Add the ice water a little at a 
time, making tiny soft masses. Then press these little 
masses together. Toss upon a floured board, and roll out 
with as little manipulation as possible. It should be rolled 
in one direction only, not back and forth, and on one side 
only. 

If two crusts are used, the lower one should be moistened 
around the edge with cold water, then a half -inch strip of 
pastry should be placed around the edge of the under crust. 
This strip should also be moistened, and the upper crust 
placed over the pie and pressed slightly around the edge. 

APPLE PIE 

Wipe and cut tart apples into eighths; remove the 
cores and skins. Vary the amount of sugar according to the 
acidity of the apples, using 2 tablespoons or more for an 
apple. If the apples are not juicy, add from ^/^ tablespoon 
to 1 tablespoon water, according to the size of the apple. 
The apples may be flavored with lemon juice, cinnamon, 
or nutmeg, and should be covered with bits of butter. 

Bake until the apples are soft and the crust is brown. 

LEMON PIE 

% cup flour Juice and rind of 1 lemon 

1 cup sugar Pastry 

1 cup boiling water 2 tablespoons powdered 

2 egg yolks sugar 

4 teaspoons butter 2 egg whites 



PASTRY AND PIES 221 

Beat the yolks of eggs until light. Mix the sugar and 
flour together. Add the boiling water slowly. Cook 20 
minutes, stirring frequently. Add the mixture to the eg;gs. 
Add butter and lemon and cook until the egg thickens, cool 
slightly. Turn the mixture into a Granola crust or into a 
baked crust. Cover with a meringue made from the whites 
of the eggs and the powdered sugar and bake until a deli- 
cate brown. For one pie use one-half of the full recipe. 

PUMPKIN PIE 

1 cup baked pumpkin 14 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 cups milk 14 teaspoon nutmeg 
V2 cup brown sugar 14 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon molasses 2 eggs 

Pastry 

To prepare the pumpkin cut into halves. Remove the 
seeds and place in the oven to bake until tender. Scrape 
out the cooked pumpkin, avoiding the skin formed by bak- 
ing. Mash and add the sugar, molasses, and seasonings. 
Beat the egg slightly, add the milk and turn into the 
seasoned pumpkin. Line the pie tin with any preferred 
pastry. Partially bake the crust and turn into it the pump- 
kin mixture. Place in a moderate oven and bake until 
set. Steamed or canned pumpkin may be used but should 
be placed in the oven and baked until quite dry. 

CHERRY PIE 

1 pint canned or stewed 4 tablespoons flour 
cherries (drained) V2 ^ % cup sugar 

V2 cup cherry juice Pastry 

Prepare plain or nut meal pastry and line the pie tin. 
Glaze the bottom of the crust with the beaten white of an 



222 THE NEW COOKERY 

egg. Set in the oven for from three to five minutes to * * set * ' 
the egg. Sift the flour and sugar together. The amount of 
sugar needed will depend upon the amount used in the 
cooked fruit. Sprinkle a layer of the flour and sugar over 
the pie crust. Fill with the canned fruit and over the top 
of this sprinkle the remainder of the flour and sugar. Put 
on the top crust, pinch the edges together, and bake in a 
hot oven until nicely browned. Other fruits may be used 
in the same way. 

SANITAEIUM MINCE PIE 

4 cups chopped apples 1 cup raisins 

2 cups minced protose % cup molasses 

% cup prune marmalade i^ cup sugar 

6 cups apple juice i^ cup butter 

% teaspoon cinnamon % teaspoon nutmeg 

Boil the apple juice down to make ll^ cups. Prepare 
the marmalade by putting stewed prunes that have been 
cooked quite dry through a colander. Pare and chop the 
apples, mince the protose, stem the raisins and wash in hot 
water. Drain and add to the apples and protose, then add 
the prune marmalade, molasses, sugar, and seasonings and 
la^ly the butter. Cook about one hour or more in a double 
boiler or until the apples are tender. This quantity will 
make sufficient filling for two pies. 

DATE CREAM PIE 

1 pint milk 2 eggs 

% pound dates Pastry 

Put the dates in cold water. Seed and wash in hot 
water. Put to cook in a small quantity of hot water and 
let simmer until the dates are thoroughly softened. When 



PASTRY AND PIES 223 

tender and quite dry rub through a colander. Beat the 
eggs slightly, add the milk (preferably hot) and stir into 
the dates. Line the pie tin with any preferred pastry. 
Fill with the date mixture and bake until set. Three eggs 
will suffice for two pies. 

VANILLA CREAM PIE 

2 cups milk % teaspoon salt 

V2 cup flour iy2 teaspoons vanilla 

1/^ cup sugar 2 egg whites 

1 tablespoon butter 2 tablespoons powdered 

2 egg yolks sugar 

Pastry 

Scald the milk. Mix the dry ingredients together. Add 
the scalded milk slowly, stirring all the time. Return to the 
double boiler and cook twenty to twenty-five minutes, stir- 
ring often. Beat the yolks of the eggs. Add to them slowly 
the cooked mixture. Return to the double boiler and cook 
until eggs thicken. Add the vanilla and salt and pour 
into a baked crust. Make a meringue of the stiffly beaten 
egg whites and the powdered sugar. Place on top of the 
filled pie. Bake in a moderate oven until the meringue is 
set and nicely browned. 

COCOANUT CREAM PIE 

1 pint milk ^4 ^^P sugar 

1/2 cup cocoanut 2 egg yolks 

^2 cup flour 2 egg whites 

2 tablespoons powdered sugar 

Steep the c6coanut in one and one-half cups of the 
milk for twenty minutes. Strain and thicken with the 
flour, rubbed smooth with the remainder of the milk. Cook 



224 THE NEW COOKERY 

at least twenty minutes in a double boiler. Beat the egg 
yolks and gradually stir into them the thickened milk, stir- 
ring meanwhile. Return to the double boiler and cook until 
thickened. Cool slightly and turn into a baked crust. 

Make a meringue of the egg whites and powdered sugar. 
Spread or pile unevenly over the filling. Many prefer the 
little peaks of meringue to that which is evenly spread over 
the pie. Bake in a moderate oven until set and nicely 
browned. 

NEW ENGLAND APPLE CREAM PIE 

2 cups diced apples 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

1 cup water i/o teaspoon grated lemon 

2 egg yolks rind 

% cup sugar 2 egg whites 

1 cup cream Pastry 

2 tablespoons powdered sugar 

Cook the apples with the lemon rind in the water until 
quite dry. Add the sugar, lemon juice, the beaten egg yolks 
and the cream. Turn into a granola or plain pastry crust 
and bake until set. Make a meringue of the egg whites and 
the powdered sugar and cover the pie with this. Bake in a 
moderate oven until set and nicely browned. 

Tart apples are best used for this pie. 

ORANGE PIE 

IV2 cups milk Juice of 2 oranges {% cup) 

Vo cup sugar 2 egg yolks 

1/2 cup flour 2 egg whites 

Rind of one orange 2 tablespoons pulverized sugar 

Heat milk to scalding, reserving one-half cup with which 
to moisten the flour. When thoroughly mixed, add to the 
scalding milk and cook until thickened. Add sugar, grated 



PASTRY AND PIES 225 

rind and the egg yolks. Lastly add the orange juice. Put 
into tins lined with pastry. The crust may be partially 
baked before the filling is put in. Bake until set. Make 
a meringue by beating the egg whites stiff and adding pul- 
verized sugar. Then replace in oven for a few minutes 
until meringue is set. 

PINEAPPLE PIE 

% cup pineapple juice 4 tablespoons flour 

% cup water 2 egg yolks 

1 cup chopped pineapple 2 egg whites 
Juice 11/2 lemons 2 tablespoons powdered 

4 tablespoons sugar sugar 

Pastry 

Mix the flour smooth with a little of the pineapple juice. 
Put the remainder of the juice, water and sugar over the 
flre. When hot stir into it the braided flour and cook until 
thickened. Then add the lemon juice. Pour the hot mix- 
ture over the well beaten egg yolks. Stir continuously. 
Replace over the fire and cook until the eggs are thickened. 
Line a pie tin with any preferred pastry and fill the crust 
with the filling. Make a meringue of the stiffly beaten egg 
whites and the powdered sugar and pile, by spoonfuls, upon 
the filled pie. Set in a moderate oven and cook slowly until 
the meringue is set. / 

SWEET POTATO PIE 

1 cup sweet potato, mashed 1 tablespoon butter 
14 cup sugar % teaspoon grated lemon 

1 egg rind 

1 cup milk 
Add sugar, beaten egg and soft butter to mashed potato. 
Beat well with fork, add milk gradually, beating all the 
time. Bake until firm in an under-crust. 



226 THE NEW COOKERY 

APPLE TART 

1 quart quartered apples 2/3 cup sugar 

Pastry- 
Put the apples in a deep pie tin, sprinkle with sugar, 
cover with a pastry crust, and bake. 

PASTRY STRIPS 

Roll out pastry into oblong shapes, spread with a paste 
made as follows : 

% cup seeded dates % cup seeded raisins 

14 cup chopped walnuts 

Put through a chopper, and if quite dry, moisten with a 
tablespoonful of orange juice. Roll the strips and then 
flatten with a rolling-pin. Cut into one-half inch strips, 
and bake in a moderate oven. 

PEACH COBBLER 

2 quarts drained canned 1% cups sugar 
peaches 3 tablespoons butter 

Biscuit dough 

Place the peaches, sugar and butter in a deep pan. Pre- 
pare a rich biscuit dough, using two tablespoons of but- 
ter to each cup of flour and proceed as for Cream Biscuits. 
Roll out to one-third of an inch in thickness and place 
over the top of the peaches. Bake' in a quick oven. 

CHEESE STRAWS 

1 cup flour 14 teaspoon salt 

y^ cup butter 14 ^^P ^^® water 

About 1 ounce yogurt cheese 

Make plain pastry of the flour, butter, salt and ice water. 
Roll the pastry out to one-fourth inch in thickness. Spread 



PASTRY AND PIES 227 

one-half of it with the grated yogurt cheese. Press the 
edges firmly together. Fold again and roll to one-fourth 
inch in thickness. Sprinkle one-half with cheese and pro- 
ceed as before. Repeat this process once more. Cut into 
strips about five inches long and one-fourth inch wide. 
Bake in quite a hot oven about eight minutes. These are a 
nice accompaniment to a salad course or may be served with 
cheese. 



CHAPTEE XXI 



CAKES 

CAKES are of two kinds, viz., butter cakes and sponge 
cakes. 

The latter contain no shortening and may be made light 
by the incorporation of air through beating. Stiffly beaten 
egg white folded into the mixture is the chief means of in- 
corporating air. 

They are usually made light without the aid of chemicals. 
The lightness depends upon the expansion of the incor- 
porated air, as all gases expand one two-hundred seventy- 
third of their volume for each degree (Fahrenheit) of tem- 
perature through which it rises. 

For such cakes it is especially important that the ma- 
terials shall be cold and that they be put together as lightly 
as possible. 

The oven must be of an even temperature and some- 
what cooler than for butter cakes. 

Butter cakes are always made light by means of chemi- 
cals. The chemicals used are described in the chapter on 
Breads. 

The usual method of procedure for the mixing of butter 
cakes is as follows : Cream the butter by working it with a 
spoon until soft, add the sugar slowly, mixing thoroughly 
until of a creamy consistency, then add the beaten Qgg yolks 
(or whole eggs) and the hydrochloric acid. 

Sift the flour and soda together, add the milk and flour 
alternately. Lastly add the flavoring and the stiffly beaten 

228 



CAKES 229 

egg whites, unless whole egg is added to the butter mix- 
ture. 

Bake in a rather quick oven, the temperature varying 
with the size of the cake. If baked in layers, 12 to 15 
minutes will be sufficient. If baked in a loaf, thirty to sixty 
minutes or more may be required. 

SPONGE CAKE 

4 large or 5 small eggs % teaspoon salt 

1 cup sugar Grated rind of one half 

1 cup pastry flour lemon 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Sift the flour and the sugar four times. Separate the 
^SS yolks from the egg whites. Place the egg whites on ice. 
Beat the egg yolks until light and lemon colored. Add the 
sugar, a little at a time, and beat until thick and creamy. 
Add the lemon juice and grated rind. Whip the whites 
until very stiff, adding the salt when half beaten. Fold the 
yolk mixture into the stiffly beaten whites, taking care not 
to stir but to fold the ingredients by a downward and up- 
ward movement. For this use the egg whip, first putting it 
down into the ingredients, then lifting it up through the 
materials, freeing it each time from the materials by shaking 
gently. Repeat this process until the materials are well 
blended, then fold in the flour in the same way. Care must 
be taken not to manipulate the materials too long, as this 
makes the cake tough. Turn into an unbuttered cake tin 
(preferably one with a removable bottom). Bake about 
thirty-five minutes in a moderately hot oven. Remove from 
the oven and turn upside down. Let stand an hour or more 
until the cake is thoroughly cold before cutting. The cake 
may then be iced if desired. 



230 THE NEW COOKERY 

NUT SPONGE CAKE 

4 eggs 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 cup sugar i/^ teaspoon grated lemon 

1 cup flour rind 

y^ cup chopped nuts 

Sift the flour once, measure, then sift three times. Sift 
the sugar four times, grate the lemon rind, then extract the 
juice from the lemon. Beat the ^^.'g yolks until very light 
and lemon colored, add the sugar gradually, beating mean- 
while. Add the lemon rind and the juice. Beat the egg 
white until stiff, and fold into the yolk mixture, then fold 
in the sifted flour and the chopped nuts. Turn into an un- 
buttered loaf tin and bake in a moderate oven 30 to 40 
minutes. Turn upside down in the pan until cool. If possi- 
ble, use a pan with a removable bottom. If this is not ob- 
tainable, fit a buttered paper in the bottom. 

If an ornamental cake is desired, ice with Boiled Frost- 
ing or Water Frosting and arrange symmetrically 16 walnut 
meats if baked in a square tin or about the same number 
if baked in a round tin. 



SUNSHINE CAKE 

"Whites 10 eggs 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

11/2 cups powdered sugar 1 cup flour 

Yolks 6 eggs 1 teaspoon cream tartar 

Beat whites of eggs until stiff and dry, add sugar gradu- 
ally, and continue beating, then add yolks of eggs beaten 
until thick and lemon-colored, and flavoring. Cut and fold 
in the flour mixed and sifted with cream of tartar. Bake 
fifty minutes the same as an Angel Food cake. 



CAKES 231 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE (ANGEL FOOD CAKE) 

Whites of 12 eggs 1% cups sugar (measured 

1% teaspoons cream of tar- after sifting) 

tar 1 cup and 1 tablespoon 

1 teaspoon vanilla white flour (measured 

y^ teaspoon lemon extract after sifting) 

Measure out all ingredients before commencing to put 
the cake together. Sift flour and cream of tartar together 
five times. Sift sugar five times. Beat ^g'g whites till very 
foamy, but not stiff; add flavoring, sift in sugar slowly, 
beating all the time. Use care to avoid making the mix- 
ture stiff. Sift in the flour slowly, mixing with a light 
folding motion. 

Bake in an unbuttered pan 55 to 60 minutes. Place a 
pan of boiling water under the cake during the first 45 
minutes. The oven should not be opened for the first 20 
minutes. When the cake is done place upside down on a 
cake cooler and leave in pan until cold. 

ORANGE SPONGE CAKE 

3 eggs 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1% cups sugar y^ cup cold water 

% teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon orange flavoring 

11/2 cups flour 

Beat the ^g^ yolks until light and lemon-colored. They 
should be quite stiff. Add the sugar gradually, then the 
lemon juice and salt. Beat the whites slightly and add one- 
half of them to the yolk mixture. Beat again, then add the 
water (ice water preferred), and fold in the flour (meas- 
ured after once stirring). Then fold in the remainder of 
the ^g'g whites, stiffly beaten. Turn into a loaf pan and 
bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. Turn 

(9) 



232 THE NEW COOKERY 

upside down in the pan to cool. Remove from the pan and 
cover with a thin layer of icing. Arrange sections of 
oranges in rows across the cake, so that when cut each piece 
will have a piece of orange upon it. 

BETHLEHEM STARS 

To make the stars bake a white sponge cake in a square 
or oblong tin with an opening in the center. This cake should 
be made a day or two before it is wanted for serving. Then 
cut into slices about three-fourths of an inch in thickness. 
"With a star shaped cutter about two and one-half inches in 
diameter, cut the stars. If a cutter is not convenient the 
stars may be cut out with a sharp cake knife. 

ALMOND WAFERS 

14 cup butter 11/^ cups flour 

% cup pulverized sugar % teaspoon vanilla extract 

1 egg Yg teaspoon almond extract 

1 tablespoon milk Blanched almonds 

Cream the butter and gradually mix in the sugar. Re- 
serve one-half of the egg-white with which to glaze the 
cakes. Beat the yolks and the remaining egg-white and add 
to the creamed butter and sugar. Then add the flavoring, 
the milk and the flour. Roll the dough a little at a time 
into thin sheets and cut into fancy shapes. Then bake in 
buttered tins. Arrange six or eight halves of blanched al- 
monds, cut lengthwise, about the center of each cake in 
such a way as to represent the petals of a flower. Brush 
with the white of egg. Sprinkle with granulated sugar and 
bake in a moderate oven till of a delicate brown color. 



CAKES 233 

LADY FINOERS 

3 egg whites Yolks of 2 eggs 

3/8 cup pulverized sugar y^ cup flour 

% teaspoon cream of tar- % teaspoon lemon extract 

tar % teaspoon salt 

Beat the ^^^ white slightly, add the salt, and continue 
beating until rather stiff. Then add cream of tartar, and 
continue until quite stiff, and fold in the pulverized sugar. 
Beat the ^^'g yolks until lemon-colored, add the flavoring and 
fold into the stiffly beaten whites. Fold in the flour and 
put through a pastry tube. Bake on unbuttered papers, 
scored in oblong sections Xy^, inches by 4 inches. Put to- 
gether with Orange Filling. 

PLAIN CAKE 

y^ cup butter ^ cup milk 

1 cup sugar % teaspoon flavoring 

2 eggs 40 minims hydrochloric 
114 cups flour acid (C. P.) 

V2 teaspoon soda 

(This amount of soda and hydrochloric acid is equivalent 
to 2 teaspoons baking powder.) 

Cream the butter and add the sugar gradually ; beat the 
yolks until light and lemon colored and add to the butter 
and sugar; add the hydrochloric acid, rinse the bowl, in 
which the eggs were beaten, with the milk. Sift the flour 
and soda together. Add the milk and flour alternately, 
then the flavoring and stiffly beaten whites. Bake in layers 
in a quick oven 12 to 15 minutes. 

ORANGE CAKE 

Make Plain Cake and bake in shallow tins. Put Orange 
Filling between the layers, cover with Water Frosting and 
decorate with sections of oranges. 



234 THE NEW COOKERY 

SMALL FANCY CAKES 

Bake the plain cake in flat tins. Cut cake into tiny ob- 
long squares, triangles, and half moons (using biscuit cutter 
for this), or any other desired shape. The cakes should be 
small to be dainty. After they are cut, they should be 
glazed and allowed to stand 24 hours before frosting. They 
are glazed to keep from crumbling. For the glazing, use one 
white of egg and one tablespoon powdered sugar. Beat 
the egg very slightly with a silver fork, then add sugar. 
Use a small brush for glazing. Be careful not to get crumbs 
in the egg. Glaze on all but one side, the side which has 
been the top of the cake, which has a good crust on it and 
will not crumble. This will be the bottom of the cake. 
Use a sharp knife for cutting cakes. Cut off crust from the 
side of each cake before cutting in pieces. Cut all of one 
shape at one time, as the cake cuts to better advantage. 

ROXBURY CAKES 

3I/2 cups pastry flour % cup raisins 

2 eggs 1/^ cup milk 

V2 cup sugar 1% cups flour 

14 cup butter 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1/2 cup molasses i/o teaspoon ground cloves 

Nutmeg 40 minims hydrochloric 
% cup English walnut acid (C. P.) 

meats 1 teaspoon soda 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, then the beaten 
yolks, hydrochloric acid, molasses and milk. Mix and sift 
the dry ingredients and add to the first mixture. Add 
beaten whites and lastly the raisins chopped flne and bake in 
gem pans. This should make from 19 to 20 small cakes. 
Ice with boiled frosting, putting just a little of the frosting 



CAKES 235 

in the center of each cake and an English walnut meat 
pressed down upon that. 

If baking powder is used, omit the acid and one-half of 
the soda and use 1^^ teaspoons of baking powder. 

WHITE LAYER CAKE 

3 egg whites 1 teaspoon lemon or vanilla 

1 cup sugar extract 

1/2 cup butter 80 minims hydrochloric 

1/^ cup milk acid (C. P.) 

2 cups flour 1 teaspoon soda 

(This amount of soda and hydrochloric acid is equivalent 
to 4 teaspoons of baking powder.) 

Cream the sugar and butter together. Beat one egg 
slightly and add to the creamed butter and sugar. Stir in 
the hydrochloric acid. Sift the soda with the flour. Add 
the milk and the flour alternately to the first mixture. Add 
the flavoring. Beat the remaining egg whites until stiff and 
fold into the batter. Bake in layers in a moderately hot 
oven. Use any desired cake filling between the layers. 

CINNAMON CAKE 

1/4 cup butter 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

14 cup sugar 1% cups fiour 

1 egg 1/2 teaspoon salt 

14 cup molasses 20 minims hydrochloric 

V2 cup milk acid (C. P.) 

% teaspoon soda 
Cream the butter. Add the sugar slowly, the beaten eggs 
and the hydrochloric acid. Sift the flour, soda, salt and 
cinnamon together. To the first mixture add the milk and 
the dry ingredients alternately. Turn into a buttered cake 
tin and bake in a moderately hot oven about twenty minutes 
or until firm and elastic to the touch. 



236 THE NEW COOKERY 

If baking powder is used, substitute one teaspoon of 
baking powder for the hydrochloric acid and one-fourth 
teaspoon of soda. It will also be necessary to use one- 
half teaspoon of soda to neutralize the acid of the mo- 
lasses. 

NUT CAKE 

Add one-half cup chopped English walnuts to the plain 
cake recipe, using scant measure of butter. Bake in oblong 
pans in a loaf about one and one-half inches thick. Ice or 
serve plain. 

ONE EGG CAKE 

1/4 cup soft butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

% cup sugar ll^ cups flour 

% cup milk 60 minims hydrochloric 

1 egg acid (C. P.) 

% teaspoon soda 

(This amount of soda and hydrochloric acid is equiva- 
lent to 3 teaspoons baking powder.) 

Mix and sift the flour, sugar and soda together. Put the 
egg, butter, vanilla, and milk together and beat with a 
dover egg beater until light. Add the hydrochloric acid and 
stir in the dry ingredients. Turn into a loaf tin or bake in 
layers. 

If baking powder is used sift it with the dry ingredients 
and omit the acid and soda. 

BURNT LEATHER CAKE 

V2 <5up butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1^ cups granulated sugar 2^/^ cups flour 

1 cup water 3 egg whites 

2 egg yolks 80 minims hydrochloric 

3 tablespoons caramel acid (C. P.) 

1 teaspoon soda 



CAKES 237 

• 

(This amount of soda and hydrochloric acid is equivalent 
to 4 teaspoons baking powder.) 

Cream the butter and sugar together. Add the caramel, 
the water and the beaten egg yolks. Add the hydrochloric 
acid and two cups of the flour. Sift the soda and the re- 
maining one-half cup of flour together and sift into the 
former mixture. Add the vanilla and fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites. Bake in layers. 

Use the following icing to spread between the layers: 

1 cup granulated sugar 2 tablespoons caramel 

■!4: cup water I/2 teaspoon vanilla 

1 egg white 

Cook the sugar and water together until it hairs. Add 
the caramel. Pour this slowly over the beaten whites and 
add the vanilla. Beat until stiff. 

To prepare the caramel use: 

1 cup brown sugar 1 cup water 

Put the sugar in a pan and place over the fire. Stir until 
it melts. Cook until it becomes a golden brown, taking care 
not to bum. Add the boiling water slowly and cook until 
it will spin and hair. Keep hot until needed. The re- 
mainder of it may be put away to be used another time. 

APRICOT SHORTCAKE 

1 quart canned apricots 1 teaspoon salt 

Ys cup butter 2 cups flour 

1 egg 1 teaspoon soda 

% cup milk 80 minims hydrochloric 

% cup sugar acid (C. P.) 

(This amount of soda and hydrochloric acid is equivalent 
to 4 teaspoons baking powder.) 



238 THE NEW COOKERY 

Sift the flour, salt and soda together. Beat the egg. Add 
the milk and hydrochloric acid quickly. Turn this mixture 
into the dry ingredients. Mix all together thoroughly. Add 
the melted butter and bake in an oblong pan. When done 
remove from the oven, split and spread on the freshly cut 
surface one-half of the apricots from which the juice has 
been drained. On top of this place the other half with the 
freshly cut surface on top. On this arrange the remaining 
half of the apricots. If a richer cake is desired the freshly 
cut surface may be spread with softened butter before add- 
ing the apricots. Serve with this a sauce made by adding 
the sugar to the juice drained from the apricots. Let boil 
from five to ten minutes and serve over each individual por- 
tion of the shortcake. A spoonful of whipped cream served 
on each portion is a pleasant addition. 



COOKIES 

5/8 cup butter 3 cups flour 

11/4 cups sugar i/4 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 egg 80 minims hydrochloric 

1/2 cup milk acid (C. P.) 

1 teaspoon soda 

(This amount of soda and hydrochloric acid is equivalent 
to 4 teaspoons baking powder.) 

Cream the butter. Add the sugar gradually, the beaten 
egg and the hydrochloric acid. Sift flour, soda and cinna- 
mon together and add alternately with the milk to the first 
mixture. Roll to one-third inch in thickness. Sprinkle with 
granulated sugar. Cut into shape with a cookie cutter. 
Place on buttered or floured tins and bake in a hot oven 
until nicely browned. If desired a raisin or walnut meat 
may be placed in each cookie before baking. 



CAKES 239 

MOCK ANGEL FOOD CAKE 

1 cup flour Pinch of salt 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon flavoring 

1 cup milk 60 minims hjrdrochloric 

"Whites two eggs acid (C. P.) 

% teaspoons soda 

(This amount of soda and hydrochloric acid is equivalent 
to 3 teaspoons of baking powder.) 

Sift the flour, sugar, salt and soda together four times. 
Heat the milk to scalding and beat the egg whites stiff. 
Pour the scalding milk into the dry ingredients, stirring con- 
stantly. Add the hydrochloric acid and stir again, and fold 
in the stiffly beaten egg whites. Add the flavoring and 
turn into an angel food cake pan. Bake in a moderate oven 
about thirty minutes. 

If baking powder is used, omit the soda and hydrochloric 
acid and sift baking powder with the dry ingredients.' 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE 

1 cup sugar 14 teaspoon cloves 

V2 cup butter 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 cup raisins 2 cups flour 

1 cup apple sauce 40 minims hydrochloric 

iy2 teaspoons cinnamon acid (C. P.) 

1 teaspoon soda 

Cream the butter and sugar together and add the hydro- 
chloric acid. Sift the dry ingredients together and add 
alternately with the apple sauce to the dry ingredients. Stir 
in the raisins dredged with a little of the flour saved out 
for this purpose. Bake in gem pans in a moderate oven 
about fifteen minutes. 

If baking powder is used omit the hydrochloric acid and 
one-half teaspoon of soda and substitute two teaspoons of 



240 THE NEW COOKERY 

baking powder. It will still be necessary to use one-half 
teaspoon of soda for neutralizing the acid in the apple sauce. 

ECONOMY OB LIGHT FRUIT CAKE 
1 cup sugar I 1 cup raisins 

Vs cup butter 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

21/^ cups flour 80 minims hydrochloric 

] cup milk acid (C. P.) 

1 teaspoon soda 

(This amount of soda and hydrochloric acid is equivalent 
to 4 teaspoons of baking powder.) 

Cream the butter and sugar together and add the hydro- 
chloric acid. Sift the flour, soda, cinnamon and cloves to- 
gether, reserving a little of the flour with which to dredge 
the raisins. Add the milk and dry ingredients alternately 
to the butter and sugar^ Stir in the raisins and bake in 
muffin pans or as a loaf in an oblong pan. 

JELLY ROLL 

3 eggs y^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup sugar 1 cup flour 

1/2 tablespoon milk 20 minims hydrochloric 

1 tablespoon melted butter acid (C. P.) 

^ teaspoon soda 

(This amount of soda and hydrochloric acid is equivalent 
to 1 teaspoon of baking powder.) 

Beat egg until light. Add the sugar gradually, then the 
hydrochloric acid and the milk. Sift the flour, soda and salt 
together. Add the dry ingredients to the egg mixture. If 
baking powder is used omit the hydrochloric acid and the 
soda and sift the baking powder with the dry ingredients. 
Lastly add the butter. Line the bottom of a dripping pan 
with paper. Butter the paper and the sides of the pan. 
Cover the bottom of the pan with the mixture about one- 



CAKES 241 

third of an inch deep and spread evenly. Bake about 
twelve minutes in a moderate oven. Take from the oven and 
turn out upon a moistened towel. Quickly remove the 
paper, and cut off a thin strip from the sides and ends of the 
cake. Spread with jelly or jam which has been beaten until 
soft, and roll. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and roll in 
paper to keep it in shape. The work must be done quickly 
or the cake will crack in rolling. Bake quickly so as not to 
dry out or it will not roll. 

GOLD CAKE 

Yolks of 8 eggs 2% cups flour 

114 cups sugar 2 teaspoons vanilla 

2/3 cup butter 80 minims hydrochloric 

2/3 cup milk acid (C. P.) 

1 teaspoon soda 

(This amount of soda and hydrochloric acid is equivalent 
to 4 teaspoons of baking powder.) 

Sift the flour once, then measure ; add the soda and sift 
three times. Cream the butter, add the sugar slowly, then 
the well beaten egg yolks and the hydrochloric acid. Add 
the milk and flour alternately and lastly the flavoring. If 
baked in one pan, bake in a moderate oven 50 minutes. If 
baked in two pans, 30 minutes will suffice. 

If baking powder is used, omit the soda and hydrochloric 
acid and sift the baking powder with the flour. 

FRUIT DROP CAKES 

% cup butter i/^ cup chopped walnut 

1 cup brown sugar meats 

3 eggs 2 cups flour 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon lemon extract 80 minims hydrochloric 

V2 cup raisins, figs or dates acid (C. P.) 



242 THE NEW COOKERY 

(This amount of soda and hydrochloric acid is equivalent 
to 4 teaspoons of baking powder.) 

Cream the butter and sugar, beat the egg yolks until 
light and lemon colored and add to the butter and sugar. 
Add the hydrochloric acid. Sift the dry ingredients to- 
gether, and chop the walnut meats very fine. Clean the 
raisins and dip in a little of the flour. If figs or dates 
are used, clean and cut into one-fourth inch pieces and 
dredge in flour. Beat the whites of the eggs until stiff and 
fold into the former mixture, then fold in the flour, and 
lastly the fruit and nuts. Drop on buttered squares of tin 
and bake in a moderate oven until a rich brown color. 

TEA PRETZELS 

Ys cup butter 2 cups white flour 

% cup sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

1 egg 1 teaspoon vanilla 

3 dozen almonds 

Cream the butter and add the sugar slowly. When thor- 
oughly creamed, add the beaten egg, the salt and the flavor- 
ing. Add the flour. Cover the dough and place on ice an 
hour or so. Break off small bits and roll into strips the 
size of a lead pencil. Bring the ends together, cross them 
and fold back to the middle portion of the strip. Beat one 
egg slightly and add one tablespoon of milk. Brush the 
pretzels with the egg mixture. Chop the almonds and press 
into the dough. Bake iij a moderate oven. 



CHAPTER XXII 

CAKE FILLINGS and ICINGS 

WATER FROSTING , 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 tablespoon boiling water 

1 tablespoon lemon juice or milk 

Stir the boiling water into ttie sugar and add the lemon 
juice. If too stiff add a little more boiling water. Melted 
chocolate and vanilla may be used instead of the lemon. 

BOILED FROSTING 

2 cups sugar 2 egg whites 

1 cup water 2 teaspoons flavoring 

Heat sugar and water to boiling, stirring occasionally 
until the sugar dissolves. Then boil without stirring until 
the syrup threads when dropped from the end of a spoon 
or fork or until it forms a soft ball when dropped into cold 
water. Then pour the hot syrup gradually on the stiffly 
beaten egg whites, beating meanwhile, and continue beating 
until of the proper consistency to spread. Flavor and 
pour the frosting over the cake, using a silver knife to guide 
it over the sides of the cake. If the frostiijf* becomes 
granular, add a few drops of boiling water. 

ORNAMENTAL FROSTING 

Whites of 3 eggs 3 cups confectioner's sugar 

3 teaspoons lemon juice ^ 

Put the eggs in a large bowl. Add 1 tablespoon sugar 

243 



244 THE NEW COOKERY 

and beat 3 to 5 minutes. Eepeat until the mixture begins to 
thicken, then add the lemon juice. Continue to add sugar 
until the frosting will not run together when cut with a 
knife. Spread a thin layer of frosting on the cake, and 
when dry cover with a layer l^ inch thick. When firm, 
mark it for cutting. Add sugar more rapidly to the re- 
mainder of the frosting until it begins to harden on the 
spoon and bowl. Put a confectioner's tube into the end of 
a pastry bag. Partially fill the bag with frosting, twist the 
end tightly, and press the frosting through in the desired 
design. 

LEMON FILLING 

1/^ cup water 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

1 tablespoon butter 2 tablespoons cornstarch 
Grated rind of lemon 1 egg yolk 

14 cup sugar 

Heat the water, sugar and lemon rind to boiling. Add 
the butter and the cornstarch moistened with a little cold 
water. Let come to the boiling point, then cook in a double 
boiler 20 minutes. Add the beaten egg yolk and cook 5 to 
10 minutes. Lastly add lemon juice and cool. 

FRUIT FILLING 

% cup water I/2 cup sugar 

2 tablespoons flour i/^ cup seeded raisins 
Juice of 1 lemon 1 dozen English walnuts 

Braid the flour with a little of the cold water. Heat the 
remainder, and when boiling, thicken with the flour. Then 
add the lemon juice and chopped nuts and seeded raisins. 
When cold, spread between layers of cake. 



CAKE FILLINGS AND ICINGS 245 

ORANGE FILLING 

^ cup sugar ^ cup orange juice 

2y2 tablespoons flour i/^ tablespoon lemon juice 

Grated rind of % orange 1 egg slightly beaten 

1 tablespoon butter 

Mix ingredients in order given. Cook ten minutes in a 
double boiler, stirring constantly. Cool before spreading. 

MARSHMALLOW FILLING 

21/2 cups sugar 1 egg white 

% cup hot water 14 teaspoon cream of tartar 

To the hot water add the sugar and the cream of tartar 
and boil until it threads slightly. Beat the egg white until 
stiflf and pour the hot syrup, slightly cooled, over the beaten 
egg white, beating meanwhile, 

ORANGE FROSTING 

Make the same as Water Frosting, using orange juice 
instead of lemon juice. If used for Lady Fingers, grate a 
little orange rind into it. 



CHAPTER XXIII 

HOT PUDDINGS 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING 

Ys cup yellow cornmeal 1 egg 

1 quart milk ^ teaspoon salt 

y^ cup brown sugar ^ teaspoon cinnamon 

Heat the milk to scalding, reserving one cup for moisten- 
ing the cornmeal. Stir the cornmeal into the hot milk and 
cook for three hours in a double boiler. Then add the 
beaten egg^ salt, cinnamon, sugar and raisins, and turn 
into a baking dish. Bake an hour and a half to two hours 
in a slow oven. 

GRANOLA FRUIT PUDDING 

1 cup granola 1 cup chopped dates 

Yolks 2 eggs 1 cup raisins 

14 cup sugar 1 cup currants 

1% cups milk 1/^ cup chopped citron 

8 figs 14 cup Meltose or New Or- 

%: cup nut meal or finely leans molasses 

chopped nuts i/^ apple 

11/2 teaspoons orange ex- 2 egg whites 

tract IV2 teaspoons lemon extract 

Beat the yolks of the eggs until light. Add the sugar, 
milk and granola. Let stand twenty minutes. Cut the 
hard ends from the figs. Wash and pour boiling water over 
them and let stand one to two minutes. Drain and dry upon 
clean towels, and chop. Put the dates in cold water. Re- 

246 



HOT PUDDINGS 247 

move the stones, then wash in hot water. Chop and add to 
the figs. . Clean the raisins and the currants and add to the 
other fruit. Peel an apple and cut half of it into small 
pieces. Turn all the fruit into the granola mixture. Add 
also the flavoring and the meltose. Beat the egg whites 
stiflE and fold into the mixture. Turn into a buttered pud- 
ding dish and steam over actively boiling water for three 
hours. Serve with Hard Sauce. 

VEVEY PUDDING 

2 cups sifted flour 1 teaspoon soda 

V2 teaspoon ground cloves % cup melted butter 

% teaspoon cinnamon 1 cup milk 

% teaspoon salt 1 cup molasses 

Sift first five ingredients together twice. Stir in the milk, 
then the molasses and the melted butter. Turn into a but- 
tered pudding dish. If in one large dish, steam 2 hours ; if 
in individual dishes steam 1 hour and 15 minutes, tightly 
covered. Serve with whipped cream. 

LOG CABIN PUDDING 

1 loaf bread % cup milk 

% cup molasses 2 tablespoons butter 

1/4 cup Meltose % cup raisins 

Crumb the bread including the crusts. Pour over it the 
melted butter, distributing as evenly as possible, and stir in 
also the cleaned raisins. Mix the Meltose and the molasses. 
An additional 14 cup of molasses may be substituted for the 
Meltose, or strained bee 's honey may be used. Add the milk. 
Turn the liquid over the dry ingredients ; mix with a folding 
motion. Turn into a pudding dish and steam over actively 
boiling water about 45 minutes. Too long cooking makes it 
heavy. Serve with Custard Sauce. 



248 THE NEW COOKERY 

ST. JAMES PUDDING 

1 teaspoon salt I/2 teaspoon ground cin- 

Vs cup butter namon 

2/3 cup sugar 14 teaspoon grated nutmeg 

V2 cup New Orleans mo- 1% cups chopped dates 

lasses ly^ cups chopped figs 

1 cup milk 40 minims hydrochloric 

3% cups flour acid (C. P.) 

1 teaspoon soda 

Melt the butter, add the molasses, sugar, spices, salt, milk 
and hydrochloric acid. Sift the soda with the flour. Dredge 
the fruit with a little of the flour. Stir the flour into the 
liquids and lastly add the fruit. Steam three hours. Serve 
with whipped cream. (If baking powder is used, use 1% 
teaspoons and omit the hydrochloric acid.) It will still be 
necessary to use l^ teaspoonful of soda to neutralize the acid 
of the molasses. 

COTTAGE PUDDING 

14 cup butter 1 cup milk 

2/3 cup sugar 2y^ cups flour 

1 egg ll^ teaspoons soda 

100 minims hydrochloric acid 

(This amount of soda and hydrochloric acid is equivalent 
to 5 teaspoons of baking powder.) 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, beat the egg* 
until light, and add to the butter and sugar. Add the hydro- 
chloric acid. Sift the soda with the flour. Add the milk 
and the flour alternately to the former ingredients. Turn 
into a buttered oblong pan and fill about three-fourths full 
of the mixture. Bake in a quick oven. Cut into squares and 
serve with Lemon Sauce. If baking powder is used sift it 
with the flour and omit all the soda and the hydrochloric 
acid. 



HOT PUDDINGS 249 

STEAMED FRXHT PUDDING 

% pound seeded raisins 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

y2 pound currants % teaspoon salt 

1/4 pound butter 1^4 cups milk 

y2 pound candied citron 1 quart stale bread crumbs 

2 eggs {y2 pound) 

1 cup sugar 2 cups flour 

1 teaspoon nutmeg 5 cups chopped apples 

Juice and rind of ^ lemon 

Wash the raisins by pouring boiling water over them, 
drain and dry upon clean towels. Cut into quarters. Clean 
currants by placing them in a colander and shaking flour 
over them. Rub them carefully in the flour, then place in 
a pan of cold water and rinse thoroughly, until the water 
is clean. Dry upon towels in a cool oven or in the sun. 
Currants may be prepared several days before using, if de- 
sired. Slice the citron very fine. If the citron is very hard, 
it may be softened by steaming. Cream the butter and 
sugar, add the beaten egg and seasonings, also the lemon 
juice and grated rind. Add the milk and one cup of the 
flour alternately. Mix the fruit with the remainder of the 
flour and turn into the cake mixture. Fold in the grated 
bread crumbs and lastly the chopped apples. Turn into a 
mold, and steam for five hours or boil in a square of cheese- 
cloth prepared by buttering one side and then sprinkling 
with flour. Gather the comers of the cheesecloth and tie 
-snugly about the pudding. Serve with lemon sauce. 

CABINET PUDDING 

1/2 cup sugar % cup seeded raisins 

3/8 cup butter (% pound) 

2 eggs % teaspoon mace 



250 THE NEW COOKERY 

14 cup milk , ^ teaspoon cinnamon 

1/8 cup molasses Rind of % lemon 

14 cup boiled cider or dark 1 teaspoon soda 

fruit jelly 60 minims hydrochloric 
1% cups flour acid (C. P.) 

Prepare the boiled cider by cooking down 2 cups of fresh 
cider to make I/4 cup. Cream the butter and sugar, add the 
molasses, boiled cider, grated lemon rind and the milk. 
Then add the hydrochloric acid. Sift the soda, cinnamon 
and the mace with the flour. Dredge the raisins with a little 
of the flour. Stir the dry ingredients into the liquids, then 
fold in the raisins. Turn into molds or into a pudding- 
dish and steam 3 hours, then brown slightly in the oven. 
Serve with Orange or Lemon Sauce. 

If baking powder is used, omit the hydrochloric acid and 
% teaspoon of soda and substitute 2 teaspoons baking- 
powder. It will still be necessary to use i/4 teaspoon soda ta 
neutralize the acid of the molasses and the cider. Sift the 
baking powder and the i/4 teaspoon soda with the flour and 
proceed as above directed. 

GRAHAM PUDDING 

1 egg y2 teaspoon salt 

1 cup New Orleans molasses i/^ teaspoon grated nutmeg- 

1 cup sweet milk 2 teaspoons soda 

2 cups graham flour 80 minims hydrochloric 
1 cup raisins acid (C. P.) 

Sift together the flour, nutmeg, and salt. Beat the egg^ 
add the molasses and milk, and the hydrochloric acid. 
Sift the soda with the flour and turn into the former in- 
gredients. Clean and stem the raisins. Dredge with flour 
and add to the pudding. Steam for three or four hours. If 



HOT PUDDINGS 251 

baking powder is used substitute 4 teaspoons for one tea- 
spoon of soda and omit the hydrochloric acid. Use also one 
teaspoon of soda to neutralize the acid of the molasses. 

DATE PUDDING 

3 tablespoons butter 2 cups flour 

1/^ cup sugar • 1 cup chopped dates 

2 eggs 80 minims hydrochloric 
% cup milk acid (C. P.) 

1 teaspoon soda 

(This amount of soda and hydrochloric acid is equivalent 
to 4 teaspoonfuls of baking powder.) 

Cream the butter and sugar. Add the beaten eggs and 
the hydrochloric acid. Dredge the dates in a little of the 
flour. Sift the soda with the flour. Add milk and flour 
alternately and lastly the dates. Turn into a buttered oblong 
pan and bake in a quick oven. Serve with Vanilla Sauce. 
(If baking powder is used sift it with the flour and omit 
both the soda and the hydrochloric acid.) 

FIG PUDDING 

1 quart milk 3 egg yolks 

11/^2 cups chopped figs 1 cup bread crumbs 

(about 1 doz.) 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1/2 cup sugar 3 tablespoons powdered 

3 egg whites sugar 

Heat the milk. Add chopped figs, crumbs and sugar. 
Beat 1 egg white stiff and add stiffly beaten yolks. Fold in 
and bake until set. Make meringue of remaining egg whites 
and sugar. Bake in a slow oven until meringue is browned. 
Serve hot with cream. 



CHAPTER XXIV 

SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS 

RASPBERRY SAUCE 

1% cups raspberry juice 2 tablespoons cornstarch 

iy2 tablespoons water 

Heat the juice from canned berries and add the corn- 
starch moistened with the water, stirring meanwhile. When 
thickened, cook 15 to 20 minutes, in a double boiler. If the 
fruit juice is not sufficiently sweetened, add sugar. 

LEMON SAUCE 

1 pint boiling water 1 lemon (juice and rind) 

1 cup sugar 3 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons butter 

Braid the flour with cold water and add to the boiling 
water. Cook 20 minutes in a double boiler. Cream the 
butter and sugar and add the lemon juice. Pour the hot 
liquid over this, stir and cool. 

LEMON CREAM SATJCE 

2 cups powdered sugar I/2 cup butter 
4 egg yolks 1 cup milk 

Vs cup lemon juice 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the well beaten egg 
yolks and milk and cook in a double boiler until thick, then 
add the lemon juice. 



SAUCES FOB PUDDINGS 253 

HARD SAUCE 

Vs cup butter 1 cup powdered sugar 

^ teaspoon flavoring or 14 teaspoon nutmeg 

Cream the butter, add the sugar and continue beating 
until smooth and creamy. Add flavoring and stir again. 
Put in serving dish and place near ice. 

CUSTARD SAUCE 

2 cups milk y^ cup sugar 

1 egg 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

1^ teaspoon vanilla 

Heat the milk in a double boiler, and add to the corn- 
starch and sugar. Cook until thickened, then add slowly the 
beaten egg, first adding some of the hot mixture to it. Cook, 
stirring constantly until the spoon dipped in it is coated 
with the custard. 

ORANGE SAUCE 

1 cup orange juice l^ cup butter 

^ cup lemon juice 2 eggs 

1 cup sugar ^ cup hot water 

Cream the butter and sugar ; add the beaten eggs. Stir 
in gradually the hot water. Add the orange juice and the 
lemon juice. Turn into a double boiler and cook until 
thickened. Remove from the fire and cool as quickly as 
possible. 

GOLDEN SAUCE 

1 cup sugar 14 ^^P foiling water 

V2 cup butter % teaspoon nutmeg 

1 egg Rind of i/^ lemon 

Beat the egg, add the sugar and the butter. Turn in the 



254 THE NEW COOKERY 

boiling water, slowly stirring meanwhile. Put to cook in a 
double boiler and stir until it thickens. Remove from the 
fire. Add the grated lemon rind and the nutmeg. 

COCOANUT SAUCE 

1 pint milk 1% tablespoons cornstarch 

1/2 cup shredded cocoanut l^ cup sugar 

1 egg white 

Braid the cornstarch with a little of the cold milk. Steep 
the cocoanut in the remainder of the milk in a double boiler 
for one-half hour. Strain out the cocoanut, add the sugar, 
heat to boiling and stir in the braided cornstarch. When 
thickened pour the hot sauce over the stiffly beaten egg white, 
beating continuously. 

TO WHIP CREAM 

1 pint whipping cream 11/2 tablespoons sugar 

% teaspoon flavoring 

Chill the cream by placing in the inner portion of a 
double boiler and surround with chipped ice to which a little 
salt has been added. By chilling the cream a lighter cream 
may be used than otherwise. When thoroughly chilled add 
the sugar and flavoring. Beat with a dover egg-beater until 
light and foamy. Remove the foamy portion. Place in a 
strainer over a receptacle and allow to drain. Repeat this 
process until all the cream has been used up. 

Whipped cream is one of the most easily digested forms 
of fat. 

MELTOSE DRESSING 

1 cup Meltose (malt honey) 1 egg white 

Beat the egg white to a stiff froth. In the meantime heat 
the meltose, but do not boil. Pour this over the beaten egg 



SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS 255 

white, beating meanwhile. Continue beating until the 
mixture becomes white. Flavor with wintergreen, vanilla or 
orange. 

MOCK WHIPPED CREAM 

1 cup milk 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 teaspoon flour ^4 teaspoon vanilla 

2 egg whites 

Mix the flour, sugar and salt and a little cold milk to- 
gether. Pour over this the hot milk and cook until thick- 
ened, then pour over the stiffly beaten egg whites. Beat for 
a minute or two, then cool and flavor with vanilla. 

VANILLA SAUCE 

3 tablespoons flour 2 cups water 

3 tablespoons butter I/2 cup sugar 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Mix the sugar and flour together. Add the boiling water 
slowly, stirring meanwhile. Cook 20 minutes, stirring fre- 
quently. Add the butter just before taking from the stove. 
Cool and add vanilla. 

MAPLE SAUCE 

1 cup maple syrup 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

1 cup water 2 tablespoons butter 

Moisten the cornstarch with a little of the cold water. 
Heat the remainder of the water and the syrup to boiling, 
stir in the braided cornstarch and cook 5 to 10 minutes. Add 
the butter and serve hot as a dressing on hot puddings. 



CHAPTER XXV 

CANNING AND PRESERVING 

THE keeping of fruit from one season to another has been 
for many centuries an important duty of the house- 
wife. Within recent years, however, the housewife has 
been relieved from this duty somewhat by the canner, who 
supplies this food for the home in a very attractive way. 

Many a housewife finds it a matter of economy to **put 
up ' ' her own fruit. By so doing, she is also able to add some 
features to meet the fancy of her own taste and that of her 
family. 

It should be remembered, however, that the greater part 
of the fruit should be put up with a small amount of sugar, 
as excessive sweets are irritating to the alimentary tract 
and also tend to cloy the appetite. 

A few recipes are given in this chapter for preserves and 
jellies, but they should be used sparingly and only as an 
occasional tidbit. 

TO CAN FRUIT 

There are three methods of preserving fruit in sealed 
utensils. The success of each method is dependent upon the 
sterilization of both the fruit and the container. 

The method most commonly used is that of sterilizing the 
jars and fruit separately, which is accomplished by boiling 
the jars and covers for ten to fifteen minutes. They should 
be put over the fire in cold water and allowed to come gradu- 
ally to the boiling point. Measuring cups, spoons, knives 
and funnel, if used, should also be boiled with the jars. 

256 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 257 

Sterilize the fruit by cooking in a preserving kettle, 
with or without sugar, and with or without water, until the 
fruit is tender. Small fruits usually require ten minutes 
cooking. Larger fruits a longer time in proportion to the 
size. 

When the fruit is cooked fill the sterilized jars to 
over-flowing with the fruit. A funnel is a convenient ar- 
rangement for filling the cans. Exclude the air by run- 
ning a sterilized knife around the inside of the jar. Dip 
the rubber into boiling water and adjust to the jar. New 
rubbers should be used each season. Wipe the jar with a 
cloth wrung out of hot water. Place the sterilized cover on 
the can and screw down. Place on a board covered with a 
towel and allow to cool. The cans must not be placed in a 
draft. When cooled it will be necessary to tighten the 
covers again before putting them away. 

The two other methods of canning fruit are known as 
the Oven method and the Water Bath method. 

OVEN METHOD 

Pack the fruit as closely as possible in clean jars. Pre- 
pare a syrup and pour over the fruit, taking care to allow 
the syrup to come in contact with the fruit before touching 
the sides of the jar. Fill to within an inch of the top of the 
jar. Place the cap on but do not screw it down. Have 
ready a shallow pan containing about an inch of hot water 
or a sheet of asbestos cut to fit the sides of the oven. Place 
the jars in the pan or on the asbestos on the lower shelf in 
the oven. The oven must be cold or cool. Increase the 
temperature of the oven gradually until the fruit begins to 
bubble, then decrease the heat but keep it at the point where 
it will bubble but not violently. Too rapid cooking 
renders the fruit soft and mushy and causes a loss of the 
syrup due to overflowing. 



258 THE NEW COOKERY 

■ 

When done remove from the oven with a dry clean 
cloth and place on a board or on a dry cloth. Have ready 
some of the boiled syrup and fill the jar to over-flowing. 
Allow any bubbles which may form in the can to escape by 
running a sterilized knife or fork down around the sides 
of the jar. Dip a new rubber band in boiling water and 
adjust to the jar, then screw down the cap and allow the 
fruit to cool where it will not be exposed to a draft. 

Small fruits should be cooked only ten minutes from the 
time they begin to bubble. The larger fruits require from 
twenty to thirty minutes cooking. Most acid fruits may be 
put up in syrup, using equal quantities of sugar and water, 
though very acid fruits may require for palatability a syrup 
of two parts sugar to one of water. For the less acid fruits 
such as pears, blueberries, raspberries, peaches, etc., use 
one quart of sugar to two quarts of water. 

Fruits may be put up without sugar, in which case boil- 
ing water is used to fill the can instead of the syrup. 

For the small fruits allow a little more than a half 
pint of syrup to one quart of fruit. For the large fruits 
allow one pint of syrup to one quart of fruit. If less syrup 
to more fruit is desired the fruit should be cooked in the 
jars until tender, without the syrup, allowing ten minutes 
for small fruits and twenty to thirty minutes for the 
large fruits, from the time they begin to bubble. Then 
divide the contents of one jar of fruit between two other 
jars of equal size and fill with boiling syrup and seal in the 
usual manner. 

When the Oven Method is used care must be taken to 

cook the fruit very slowly. Too hot an oven will break the 

jars. 

TO CAN FRUIT IN THE WATER BATH 

Prepare the fruit and syrup as for cooking in the oven. 
Fill clean jars and put the covers on loosely. Have a 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 259 

wooden rack in the bottom of a wash boiler. Put in enough 
warm water to come to about 4 inches above the rack. Place 
the filled jars in the boiler, but do not let them touch one 
another. Pack clean white cotton rags or perhaps better, 
cotton rope between the jars to prevent them from striking 
one another when the water begins to boil. 

Cover the boiler and let the fruit cook ten minutes from 
the time the water surrounding it begins to boil. 

Draw the boiler back and take oif the cover. When 
the steam passes off take out one jar at a time and place 
in a pan of boiling water beside the boiler, fill up with boil- 
ing syrup and seal. Put the jars on a board and do 
not let cold air blow upon them. If screw covers are 
used, tighten them when the glass has cooled and con- 
tracted. 

TO CAN GKAPE JUICE 

Pick Concord grapes from the stem. Wash the grapes 
and heat them, stirring them all the time. When broken, 
pour into a jelly bag and allow the juice to drip from the 
grapes. Measure it and add one-quarter the amount of 
migar. Cook the juice and sugar until they reach the boiling 
point. Pour into hot bottles, cork and seal immediately. 
Less sugar may be used. 

TO CAN APPLE JUICE 

Use the juice from selected apples, rejecting any rotten 
or wormy ones. Put them through a fruit press to extract 
the juice. Heat the juice to a temperature of 160° to 170° 
F., then place the juice in sterilized bottles, seal and place 
in a water bath in a boiler, the water being at the tempera- 
ture of 160° to 170° F. Keep the apple juice at this 
temperature for three-fourths of an hour. Remove from 
the water and cool without a draft. Other fresh fruit juices 
may be put up in the same way. 



260 THE NEW COOKERY 



TO CAN PEACHES 

8 quarts peaches 3 quarts water 

1 quart sugar 

Put the sugar and water together and stir over the fire 
until the sugar is dissolved. When the syrup boils, skiig it* 
Draw the kettle back where the syrup will keep hot, but 
do not boil. 

Pare the peaches, cut in halves, and remove the stones^ 
unless you prefer to can the fruit whole. 

Put a layer of the prepared fruit into the preserving- 
kettle and cover with some of the hot syrup. When the 
fruit begins to boil, skim carefully. Boil gently for ten 
minutes. Then put in the jars and seal. If the fruit is not 
fully ripe, it may require a little longer time to cook. It 
should be so tender that it may be pierced easily with a 
silver fork. It is best to put only one layer of fruit in the 
preserving kettle. 

While this is cooking the fruit for the next batch may 
be prepared. 

TO CAN SLICED PEACHES 

1 quart sliced peaches 1 cup water 

1 cup sugar 

Clingstone peaches are to be preferred for this recipe. 
To prepare the peaches, dip in boiling water, remove the 
skins and slice. Prepare a syrup of the sugar and water, 
and when boiling, drop in the peaches. Cook about 2Q 
minutes, skimming frequently. Turn into the sterilized 
jars and proceed as for canned cherries. 

TO CAN PINEAPPLE 
Select ripe and firm pineapples of good flavor. This 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 261 

is usually determined by the aroma given off by the pine- 
apple. If it smells deliciously it is usually a good fruit. 
Pineapples which are devoid of aroma should be rejected. 
Remove the top and slice the pineapple into half-inch 
slices; then peel each slice, remove the eyes, quarter and 
cut out the core, or if preferred the pineapple may be 
cubed instead of quartered. Fill the jar with fruit, cover- 
ing it with the boiling syrup, using equal parts of sugar 
and water, and proceeding the same as for canned apricots, 
except that the pineapple must be allowed to cook from one 
to one and one-half hours, or until it becomes tender. This 
is indicated by the change in the color, the pineapple becom- 
ing more transparent. 

The pineapple may be cooked by the Water Bath method 
if desired. 



TO CAN STRAWBERRIES 

To each pound of berries allow three-fourths of a pound 
of sugar, making a syrup of the sugar and water, in the 
proportion of one pound of sugar to one cup of water. 
Cook the syrup fifteen minutes. Fill glass jars with the 
berries and pour the hot syrup over them. Let stand 
fifteen minutes. When the berries will have shrunk, then 
fill again with fresh berries; place the covers on, set the 
cans in shallow pans of hot water and bake slowly in the 
oven ten minutes. After they come to the boiling point care 
must be taken not to let them cook so rapidly that the 
juice overflows. They must cook only at the bubbling point. 
At the end of the ten minutes remove from the oven, put on 
the rubbers, fill the jars to overfiowing with some of the 
syrup or boiled water, seal and set on a shelf on a dry 
towel out of a draft. 



262 THE NEW COOKEBY 

TO CAN CHERRIES 

To each quart of pitted cherries (sour) allow one pound 
(2 cups) sugar and y^ pint of water. Make a syrup of the 
sugar and water and boil fifteen minutes. Add the cherries 
and cook ten minutes over a flame. Sterilize glass jars and 
caps by boiling fifteen to twenty minutes. Fill the jars to 
overfiowing with the hot fruit. Wipe the jars with a cloth 
wrung out of hot water, adjust the rubber bands and 
screw down the cap. Set on a shelf or table out of a draft 
to cool. When cool, screw down the cap as tightly a» 
possible. 

TO CAN CHERRIES WITH STONES 

Prepare the same as the above, using 1^ quarts of 
cherries with stones to one cup of sugar and one-half pint 
of water. 

TO CAN CRABAPPLES 

1 pint of sugar 1 pint of water 

11/^ quarts of whole crabapples 

Select as nearly perfect crabapples as possible. Wash^ 
wipe dry and remove the stems and blossom end. Prepare 
a syrup of the water and sugar and when boiling drop in 
the crabapples. Let cook slowly one-half hour or more, or 
until the crabapples are soft and tender. This quantity fills 
a quart jar. If the jar is not full with the juice add boiled 
water. 

TO CAN APRICOTS 

Select firm, ripe apricots. Place them in a wire frying- 
basket and put in boiling water long enough to loosen the 
skins. Peel, halve, remove the seeds and pack in jars as 
closely as possible. Prepare a syrup, using one pint of 
sugar to one-half pint of water. Proceed as described in 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 263 ! 

! 

the Oven method, allovring the fruit to bubble slowly for 
twenty minutes. 

APPLE JELLY 

Wash, stem and wipe the apples. Remove the stem and 
blossom end. Cut into quarters and put into the preserving 
kettle. Add cold water sufficient to come almost to the 
top of the apples or about 4 quarts of water to 8 quarts of 
apples. Cover and cook slowly until the apples are soft. 
Turn the apples into a jelly bag and drain, taking care not 
to squeeze the apples, as this makes the jelly cloudy. There 
should be about 3 quarts of juice to 8 quarts of apples and 
4 quarts of water. Boil 20 minutes and add an equal 
quantity of heated sugar. To heat the sugar place in a 
granite dish, set in the oven, leaving the door ajar and stir. 
Boil 5 minutes, skim and turn into glasses. Place in a 
sunny window and let stand 24 hours. Cover with paraffine 
and a metal cover. Keep in a dry place. If apples are 
pared a much lighter jelly may be made. 

Apple jelly may be made at any time but winter apples 
are best and should be used when in their prime, that is, 
from autumn till December or January. When necessary 
to make apple jelly in the spring add the juice of 1 lemon 
to every pint of apple juice. 

Apple jelly may be flavored by placing a rose geranium 
leaf in the bottom of each of the glasses before pouring in 
the hot jelly. As soon as the leaf becomes slightly wilted 
remove the leaf from the hot liquid before it begins to 

jelly. 

QUINCE JELLY 

Wash and pare the fruit, removing the blossom end first, 
cut into quarters and remove the cores. To each gallon of 
quartered fruit add one-half gallon of water. Place over 
the fire, allowing it to come slowly to the boiling point. 

(10) 



264 < THE NEW COOKERY 

Cook slowly for about two hours, or until the fruit becomes 
soft. Turn into a jelly bag and allow the fruit to strain 
over night, without pressure. Measure the fruit juice. 
There should be one and one-half quarts of juice for each 
gallon of quartered fruit. If there is more water it should 
be cooked down to this quantity before adding the sugar. 
Add an equal quantity of sugar, stir until the sugar dis- 
solves, allowing to boil about ten minutes, and skimming 
occasionally. Pour the jelly into glasses which have been 
sterilized, and set in a window where the sun will strike it 
for twenty-four hours, then cover with parafBne, which may 
be obtained at any drug store for a few cents a pound. 
Place the paraflSne in a small saijce-pan and melt over 
boiling water. Cover the jelly with the thickness of about 
a fourth of an inch of the paraflfine. Cover the glass over 
with the tin lid or a waxed paper pasted over the top. 

Apple jelly may be made in the same way as the quince 
jelly. A second quality of jelly, which may not be quite so 
clear as the first, is made by pressing as much juice as 
possible from the fruit in the jelly bag. The parings and 
cores may also be cooked in a small quantity of water and 
the juice from this source added to that from the jelly bag. 
Proceed to make this jelly the same as that described above. 

CANDIED ORANGE PEEL 

Peel of 1 orange y^ cup sugar 

14 cup water in which the orange peel was cooked 

Wipe the orange and remove the peel in quarters. Re- 
move the superfluous white from the peel and cut into nar- 
row strips. Cook in boiling water and cover until tender. 
Drain and make a syrup of the sugar and one-half cup of the 
water in which the peel was cooked. "When the sugar dis- 
solves, add the orange rind and cook slowly until most of 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 265 

the water has evaporated. Drain the rind and roll the 
strips in coarse granulated sugar. 

PRESERVED PEACHES 

4 quarts halved peaches 2 quarts sugar 

1 quart water 

To peel the peaches, dip into boiling water and remove 
the skin. Halve and turn into a preserving kettle in which 
has been prepared a syrup of the water and sugar. Cook 
until the peaches are tender or about three-fourths of an 
hour. 

PRESERVED PEARS 

Take the fall fruit that is not perfect for canning and 
perhaps too ripe. Peel, core, cut in quarters. For each 
pound of fruit allow % pound granulated sugar and a very 
little water to dissolve the sugar. After the fruit begins 
to boil, stir constantly, as it is apt to bum. When the fruit 
commences to darken and breaks easily it is done. Put in 
glasses or jars. "When cold, pour melted paraffine over the 
tops, before sealing. 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVES 

Use equal quantities by weight of berries and sugar. 
Make a syrup of sugar and one-half as much water. Boil 
moderately fifteen minutes. Add berries and cook about ten 
minutes or until berries are soft but not mushy. Seal in 
glass jars. 

PEAR CHIPS 

8 pounds pears % pound canton ginger 

4 pounds sugar 4 lemons 

Wipe pears, remove stems, quarter and core; then cut 
in small pieces. Add sugar and ginger, and let stand over 



266 THE NEW COOKERY 

night. In the morning add lemon cut in small pieces, re- 
jecting the seeds, and cook slowly 3 hours. Put in a stone 
jar. 

WATERMELON PRESERVES 

1 quart of sugar 2 quarts diced melon rind 

1 cup water 2 four-inch sticks cinnaDion 

2 lemons 1 dozen cloves 

Use only the rind of the watermelon. Trim off the hard 
green part, also the red portion. Cut into cubes about three- 
fourths of an inch square. Prepare a syrup of the sugar 
and water. When boiling add the seasoning, including the 
thinly sliced lemon, next add the diced melon and let boil 
gently about two hours or until the melon is clear. 

The red portion may also be used but it should not be 
overripe and should be cooked separate from the rind. 

CRANBERRY JELLY 

1 quart cranberries 1 cup sugar 

1 to 2 cups water 

Pick over the cranberries. Remove the spoiled or im- 
perfect berries. Wash and add to the boiling water and let 
cook until they burst through their skins, then put through 
a colander. Add the sugar gradually, stirring until the 
sugar is dissolved, then let boil without stirring eight or 
ten minutes or until it jellies. The jellying point can be 
easily determined by dropping a little from the point of a 
spoon on a cold plate. If the drop stands up round and 
does not flatten it has been cooked sufficiently. Pour into 
molds or glasses which have been wet with cold water arid 
set away to cool. The dark colored cranberries are usually 
drier and require more water than the lighter colored ones. 
They are also drier in the spring of the year. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 267 

SPICED CRANBERRY JELLY 

1 quart cranberries 1 cup sugar 

1% cups boiling water i/^ teaspoon mace 

1 three-inch stick cinnamon % teaspoon salt 

Look the cranberries over carefully, wash and put to 
cook in one cup of boiling water with the cinnamon and 
mace. Let cook slowly until the berries burst. Rub through 
a colander, add the sugar and tlie remaining one-third cup 
water and the salt. Cook about six minutes or until a 
drop upon a cold platter wjll retain its shape. Turn into 
molds wet with cold water. When ready to serve, unmold 
upon the platter. 

ORANGE AND GRAPE FRUIT MARMALADE 

4 oranges 1 grape fruit 

2 lemons 4 pounds sugar 

4 cups water 

Wash, dry and halve the grape fruit, oranges and 
lemons ; extract the juice and the pulp by means of a lemon 
drill. Scrape out all the coarse white part of the skins; 
use the skins of all the fruit except that of one orange. 
Chop the peel in a meat chopper or slice very finely with a 
slicer. Add to the juices; measure and add an equal 
quantity of water. Let stand over night in a cool place. 
In the morning boil with 4 pounds of sugar, until it jellies, 
which will take about an hour. Put in jars or glasses; 
cover with paraffine and a metal cover. 

Two additional oranges may be substituted for the grape 
fruit if desired. 

STRAWBERRY JAM (English Style) 

Allow equal parts by weight of sugar and berries. Put 
a layer of berries in a preserving kettle, then a layer of 



268 THE NEW COOKERY 

sugar, and continue alternating berries and sugar until the 
kettle is a little more than half full. Do not try to cook 
too many at once. Let come slowly to the boiling point and 
continue boiling for 20 minutes or until they form a thick 
syrup. Put into jelly glasses or jars. Cover with paraflfine. 

RED RASPBERRY JAM 

Prepare the same as for strawberry jam. One quart of 
raspberries weighs from fourteen to sixteen ounces. 

GREEN TOMATO PRESERVES 

2 quarts sliced green tomatoes 2 pints sugar 
1 lemon Water 

Wash the tomatoes and slice unpeeled. Boil in water 
until clear and tender, drain off water, add sugar and the 
lemon very thinly sliced. Cook slowly one hour, turn into 
a stone jar and let stand one week. Drain ofif the juice and 
boil it 10 minutes. Turn over the tomatoes and let stand 
one week. Drain oflf juice again and let come to the boiling 
point, then put in the cooked tomatoes and boil all together 
five minutes. Turn into jars and cover with paraflBne. 

TO CAN TOMATOES 

Slice firm, ripe tomatoes of a size to go through the 
mouth of the jar, dip into boiling water about five minutes, 
and remove the skin and place in jars. When the jars have 
been filled, add one teaspoonful of salt and the boiling 
water or tomato juice made as follows : 

Wash and slice ripe tomatoes and put over the fire and 
cook same as for stewed tomatoes. Cook about twenty 
minutes, add a teaspoonful of salt to each quart of tomatoes, 
and put through a colander to remove skins and seeds. Fill 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 269 

the jars to within one inch of the top, reserving some of 
the juice or water with which to fill the jar when finished 
cooking. Put in the oven on asbestos or in a shallow pan of 
water and bring slowly to the boiling point, then allow to 
cook very slowly for ten to fifteen minutes. Remove from 
the oven and fill the jar to overflowing, allowing the bubbles 
to escape. Adjust the rubber and screw on the top, which 
should be tightened when cold. Tomatoes canned in this 
way are delicious served whole or as a salad. 

TO CAN BEANS 

Prepare the beans the same as for the table by removing 
the strings with a paring knife, then cook in a saucepan 
until they begin to get tender. Then fill the jar as full as 
possible with the pods and add a teaspoonful of salt to each 
quart. Fill the jar with boiled water, as the water in which 
the beans are cooked gives them a dirty color. Place in the 
oven and let boil slowly for one-half hour or more, or until 
the beans are perfectly tender. Seal as for beets. 

TO CAN CORN 

Select corn as lately removed from the garden as possi- 
ble. The grains must be milky, and not hardened in the 
least. Cut the grains from the ear with a sharp knife, not 
too close, cutting off about half the grain, then pressing 
out the remaining juice from the hull, in this way avoiding 
the tough skins. Season the corn with salt, a teaspoonful 
to a quart, or more if desired, then pack in jars as full and 
as closely as possible. Adjust the rubber, place the cap on 
the jar and screw down loosely. Cook in a boiler as 
described above about one hour. Set aside until the next 
day, when the corn should be reheated for another hour, 
likewise the third day. The object of the three cookings is 



270 THE NEW COOKERY 

to kill any bacteria which may be present, also the spores 
which are not killed by even a boiling temperature. The 
first day's cooking kills the bacteria but does not affect 
the spores which, however, germinate, or in other words 
become fullfledged bacteria in a few hours' time, due 
to the heat and moisture. Hence, after two days, the bac- 
teria which were previously spores are probably killed. The 
third day's cooking is to kill any spores which may have 
escaped germination the first day. 

TO CAN BEETS 

Select young, tender beets, wash and put to cook in a 
saucepan in boiling water and cook until tender enough to 
remove the skins, then place in jars and fill with water 
which has been colored as follows : 

Peel two or three raw beets, slice and cook in one quart 
of water about fifteen minutes, or until the water is of a 
beautiful shade of red. Do not overcook, as the water will 
become a brick color ; fill the jar with this liquid and place 
in the oven and cook ten to fifteen minutes after reaching 
the bubbling point. Seal the same as for other fruits or 
vegetables. 



CHAPTER XXVI 

INVALID DISHES 

BARLEY WATER 

1 tablespoon barley flour 2 tablespoons cold water • 

1 pint boiling water 1 teaspoon salt 

Rub the barley flour (which may be obtained at any 
pharmacy), salt and cold water to a paste; add to the boil- 
ing water, stirring constantly. Let boil five minutes, then 
cook in double boiler 30 minutes, strain. If desired, flavor 
with cinnamon, raisins, or lemon juice. 

ALBUMIN WATER 

y^ cup water 1 ^^'g white 

Beat the ^gg slightly until foamy, add the water and 
strain through cheesecloth. If preferred, a few drops of 
lemon juice may be added. 

OATMEAL GRUEL 

3 tablespoons rolled oats 1 pint water 

l^ teaspoon salt 

Have water boiling and add rolled oats; let boil ten 
minutes, then put in double boiler and cook three hours; 
strain. 

CORNMEAL GRUEL 

2 tablespoons cornmeal II/4 cups boiling water 
1/2 cup cold water i/o teaspoon salt 

271 



272 THE NEW COOKERY 

Moisten the commeal and the salt with the cold water 
and add to the boiling water. Cook over the flame until 
well thickened, then set in a double boiler and cook four 
hours. Strain and add more liquid, if necessary. 

TOASTED FLAKE GRUEL 

2 cups toasted rice or com 2 cups water 
flakes 1/4 teaspoon salt 

Heat the water to the boiling point, add the salt and 
flakes, and cook until thoroughly softened, then strain 
through a sieve to make perfectly smooth. 

HOT MALTED NUTS 

14 cup dry malted nuts % cup boiling water 

Salt, if desired 

Pour the hot water into the dry malted nuts, stirring 
while so doing. It is ready to serve at once. 

VEGETABLE BROTH 

1 pint chopped celery i/o pint chopped turnips 

1 pint chopped carrots 5 sprigs of parsley 

Vo pint chopped red beets 1^ cup strained tomato 

1 quart water 

Chop the vegetables with a chopping knife or put 
through a food chopper, taking care to save all the juices 
which may run through the food chopper; add the water, 
cover, and bring to the boiling point, then place in a double 
boiler and cook for several hours. Strain and season with a 
little salt, and if desired, a little celery salt. One or two 
tablespoons of cream added to the broth give an added 
amount of nourishment and flavor to the broth. 



INVALID DISHES 273 

HOT MALTED MILK 

2 tablespoonf uls malted milk Hot water to fill a cup 

Moisten the dry malted milk with enough warm water to 
make a smooth paste, then add remaining hot water gradu- 
ally, stirring meanwhile. If desired, a little salt or celery 
salt may be added as seasoning. 

ORANGE EGG NOG 

1 egg Juice of 1 orange 

2 teaspoons sugar V2 teaspoon lemon juice 

1 tablespoon cream 

Beat the egg yolk until light, add one-half of the sugar, 
then gradually the orange and lemon juice; then add the 
cream and fold in the stiflBy beaten white to which has been 
added the remainder of the sugar. Other fruit juices may 
be used instead of the orange. 

LEMON EGG NOG 

2 egg whites 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 tablespoon sugar 

Beat the egg whites until stiff with a dover egg beater. 
Add the sugar and the lemon juice. 

FOAMY EGG NOG 

1 egg 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

2 teaspoons sugar 2 teaspoons cream 

Break the egg, separating the yolk from the white. Beat 
the yolk until light and lemon colored. Add one teaspoon 
of the sugar, the lemon juice and the cream. Beat the 
egg white until stiff. Add the remainder of the sugar. 



274 THE NEW COOKERY 

Fold three-fourths of the egg white into the yolk mixture, 
leaving the remainder to place on top. Serve in a sherbet 
glass. 

FRUIT EGG NOG 

2 egg whites 4 teaspoons sugar 

1 egg yolk Juice ^2 orange 

Beat the egg yolk until light and lemon colored. Add 
one-half of the sugar. Beat the egg whites until stiff with 
a dover egg beater to make them fine grained. Fold the 
remaining half of the sugar into the whites. Fold the 
whites into the yolk mixture and serve in a sherbet glass. 
Pour the orange juice over the mixture in the glass. 

MILK EGG NOG 

1 egg 2 teaspoons sugar 

% cup milk A few drops vanilla 

Beat the egg thoroughly. Add the sugar and the milk 
(part cream if desired). Add the flavoring and serve in a 
tumbler. 

' MALTED NUTS EGG NOG 

1 egg 1/^ cup water 

V2 cup malted nuts % teaspoon vanilla 

Place all the ingredients in a glass fruit jar and shake 
until light and foamy. 

MALTED NUTS CREAM 

1 cup malted nuts 1 cup hot water 

14 cup cream 

Dissolve the malted nuts in the hot water and add the 
cream. 



INVALID DISHES 275 

ALMOND CREAM 

1 heaping tablespoon almond butter 
V2 cup cold water 

Emulsify the almond butter by adding the cold water a 
few drops at a time and thoroughly mixing before any more 
is added. 

MALT HONEY WHIP 

1 egg white 1 cup malt honey (meltose) 

Beat the egg white until stiff and fold into the malt 
honey and continue beating until light. Flavor with vanilla 
if desired.. 

MALT HONEY WITH BUTTER 

1 cup malt honey (Meltose) % cup butter 

Heat the malt honey over water. Stir in the butter and 
mix until thoroughly blended. 

APPLE WHIP 

9 

1 egg white 4 tablespoons apple sauce 

Put the apple sauce through a colander. Beat the egg 
white to a stiff froth, and fold in the apple sauce. 

APPLE SNOW 

1 medium sized apple 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 egg white A few drops lemon juice 

Peel a ripe, mellow apple, and scrape, reducing the 
apple to a jSne pulp. Fold this into a stiffly beaten egg 
white, add the sugar and a few drops of lemon juice. Serve 
in sherbet glasses with a bit of bright jelly on top. It 
should be served immediately. 



276 THE NEW COOKERY 

MALT HONEY ICE CREAM 

1 pint cream 1 cup malt honey 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Warm the malt honey slightly and add to the other 
ingredients. Freeze. 

FROZEN MALTED NUTS 

ll^ cups dry malted nuts l^/o cups water 

1 egg white 

To the malted nuts add hot or cold water. When dis- 
solved turn into a freezer and chill, then add the stiffly 
beaten egg white and continue freezing until firm. 

GLUTEN BREAD 

1 pint water (% cream) 1 yeast cake 
3% cups 40% gluten flour 1 teaspoon salt 

Put the yeast to soak in y^ cup additional water. When 
sufficiently softened, add to the one pint of warm water. 
If convenient to use one-third cream, scald the cream and 
add to the remaining 2/3 pint of warm water. Make a 
sponge by adding 1% cups of gluten flour and the salt, and 
set away to rise. When light and full of bubbles, add the 
remainder of the flour. Knead thoroughly, let rise until 
light, then shape into a loaf. Place in a buttered bread tin. 
Bake in a hot oven three-quarters of an hour to an hour. 

GLUTEN PUFFS 

1 cup cream y^ teaspoon salt 

1 egg 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup 40% gluten flour 80 minims hydrochloric acid 

(This amount of soda and hydrochloric acid is equivalent 
to 4 teaspoons of baking powder.) 



INVALID DISHES 277 

Sift the salt, flour and soda together. Beat the egg, 
add the cream and the hydrochloric acid. Stir, the flour 
into this, turn into gem irons and bake in a rather quick 
oven about 20 minutes. 

Half water and half cream may be used instead of the 
cream, if desired. 



CHAPTER XXVII 

BALANCED MENUS 

THE following menus are suggestive bills of fare for 
the housewife who is desirous of supplying a whole- 
some and well balanced dietary. They are based upon the 
ordinary sized serving and are also planned in conformity 
to the low-protein idea. 

The usual accompaniments of bread, butter, cream for 
cereals, etc., though not mentioned, are included. 

BREAKFAST MENUS 



Sliced Pineapple 

Boiled Rice 

Hashed Brown Potatoes Whole Wheat Gems 

Stewed Figs 
Kaffir or Sassafras Tea 

Oranges 

Hominy 

Baked Eggs in Cream Potato Cakes Toasted White Bread 

Minute Brew 

"^ B- 

Fresh Strawberries 

Baked Mush — Maple Syrup 

Minced Potato Graham Hurry-Ups 

Cherry Sauce 
Cereal Coffee 
278 



BALANCED MENUS 279 

BREAKFAST MENUS— Continued 

Grape Fruit 

Toasted Rice Flakes 

Poached Eggs Currant Gems 

Prune Sauce 
Yogurt Buttermilk 

Malaga Grapes 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit 

Hashed Brown Potatoes Corn Cake 

White Cherry Sauce 
Minute Brew 

Bananas 

Cream of Wheat 

Rice Patties Corn Gems 

Apple Sauce 

Hot Malted Nuts 

Oranges 

Bran and Granola Mush 

Soft Boiled Eggs Coffee Cake 

Steamed Figs 
Health Cocoa 

Baked Sweet Apples 

Toasted Corn Flakes Cream Toast 

Toasted Whole Wheat Bread Pear Sauce 

Grape Juice 

Apples 

Pearl Barley 

Baked Potatoes Toasted Graham Bread 

Red Raspberry Sauce 
Cereal Coffee 



280 THE NEW COOKERY 

BREAKFAST MENUS— Continued 

Grape Fruit 

Rolled Oats 

Potato and Onion Hash Banana Toast 

Bran Gems Dairy Butter 

Minute Brew 

DINNER MENUS 

Cream of Vegetable Oyster Soup 

Protose Steak — Onions or Savory Roast 

Browned Potatoes Baked Egg Plant 

Turnip Puree 
Fig Pudding 

Potato Chowder 

Nut Sausage or Macaroni au Gratin 

Mashed Sweet Potatoes Fresh Spinach 

Fruit Salad 
Queen of Puddings 

Lima Bean Soup 

Walnut Roast — Chili Sauce 

Creamed Potatoes Buttered Beets 

Radishes 
Lemon Pie Pecans 

Tomato Bisque 
Baked Beans Potato Loaf 

Mashed Squash Celery 

Cottage Pudding English Walnuts 

Vegetable Soup— Noodles 

Baked Nuttolene or Com Roast 

Baked Sweet Potatoes Boiled Onions 

Cheese Balls 
• Indian Trifle — Custard Sauce 



BALANCED MENUS 281 

DINNER MENUS— Continued 

Italian Soup 

Macaroni and Kidney Beans Parisian Potatoes 

Egg Plant Cabbage Salad 

Peach Cobbler Pine Nuts 

Cream of Com Soup 

Rice a la Carolina Mashed Potatoes 

Buttered Vegetable Oysters Macedoine Salad 

Cabinet Pudding — Golden Sauce 

Cream of Potato Soup 
Braized Protose Lima Beans Mashed Turnips 

Combination Green Salad 
Oranges Filberts 

Cream of Split Pea Soup 

Macaroni with Tomato Baked Potatoes in Cream 

Buttered Cauliflower Apple and Celery Salad 

Cream of Rice Pudding 

Cream of Bean Soup 
Cereal Roast Browned Potatoes Green Peas 

Lettuce — French Dressing 
Vevey Pudding — Whipped Cream 

SUPPER MENUS 

Asparagus Tips on Toast 
Stewed Tomatoes Cottage Cheese 

Prune Fluff 

^ IS 

Creamed Okra on Toast 

Lettuce Sandwich Apple Sauce Malt Honey 

Date Surprise Cocoanut Sticks 



282 THE NEW COOKERY 

SUPPER MENUS— ConHnued 

Spinach on Toast 

Steamed Rice Strained Honey 

Plum Sauce 

Baked Custard 

"& ^ 

Escalloped Potatoes String Beans 

Yogurt Cheese Prune Sauce 

Pineapple Bread Dessert 

Date Toast 

Hominy Egg Sandwich 

Orange Fluff — Sauce 

Green Lima Bean Toast 

Breaded Tomatoes Pineapple Sauce 

Banana Dessert Cream Crisps 

Egg Timbales 
Granola Fruit Mush Date Sandwich 

Pineapple Tapioca 
Cocoanut Sticks 

Savora Rice Soup 

Potato Croquettes Cottage Cheese 

Tomato Sandwich 

Malaga Grapes 

Vegetable Bouillon 

Steamed Rice with Creole Sauce 

Floating Island Fruit Crackers 

Escalloped Eggs 

Kernelled Com Pearl Barley widi Dates 

Baked Apples — Jelly 



BALANCED MENUS 283 

LUNCHEON MENUS 

Asparagus Broth 

Creamed Hominy 

Apple, Cheese and Nut Salad 

Fig Tapioca — Whipped Cream 

Cream of Potato Soup 
"^ Creamed Com au Gratin Tomato Salad 

Caramel Cornstarch Pudding — Whipped Cream 

Tomato and Celery Soup 
Potato and Rice Patties Green Peas 

Lettuce — French Dressing 
Apricot Fluff 

Tomato Bouillon 

Snowflake Toast 

Orange Jelly — Whipped Cream 

English Walnuts 

Cream of Rice Soup 

Baked Tomato on Toast 

Cocoanut Blanc Mange Custard Sauce 

Tomato Vermicelli Soup 
Creamed Potatoes White Cherry Sauce 

Peanut Butter Sandwiches 
Cream Cake 

Nut and Vegetable Stew 

Fruit Macedoine 

Buns White Clover Honey 

Pecans 



284 THE NEW COOKERY 

LUNCHEON MENUS— Continued 

Cream of Barley Soup 

Baked Potatoes Yogurt Cheese Salad 

Pineapple Sauce Cookies 

Green Pea Soup 

Escalloped Tomatoes Ripe Olives 

Pineapple Cream Dessert 

Nut Cake 

Cream of Celery Soup 

Baked Potatoes Head Lettuce — Lemon 

Brown Betty — Hard Sauce 

Special Dinner Menus 

EASTER MENU 

Cream of Celery Soup Wafers 

Radishes Ripe Olives Salted Almonds 

Apple Fritters 

Fillet of Nut Meat 

Potato Puffs Fresh Asparagus Baked Onions 

Waterlily Salad 
White Bread Graham Bread 

Bran Biscuit Golden Nectar 

Pineapple Gelee Easter Cake 

Mixed Nuts Oranges 

Minute Brew 

LINCOLN'S BIRTHDAY MENU 

Tomato Soup 

Celery Ripe Olives 

Broiled Protose — Mushroom Sauce 

Baked Potatoes — Savora Cream Sauce 

Boiled Onions Creamed Egg Plant 

Cherry and Filbert Salad Marmalade Sandwich 

Sweet Cider Log Cabin Pudding — Custard Sauce 

Mixed Nuts Apples Oranges 



BALANCED MENUS 285 

WASHINGTON'S BIRTHDAY MENU 

Washington Chowder 

Celery Radishes 

Roast Protose — Cranberry Jelly 

Baked Sweet Potatoes Buttered Cauliflower Italian Beets 

Potato Salad 

White Bread Fruit Bread 

Apple Juice 

Cherry Pie Layer Cake 

Oranges English Walnuts 

Cereal Cotfee 



ST. PATRICK'S DAY MENU 

Cream of Spinach Soup 

Celery Bread Stii:ks 

Protose Fillet — Cucumber Jelly 

Mashed Irish Potatoes Fresh String Beans 

Creamed Com au Gratin 

Combination Green Salad 

Whole Wheat Bread White Bread 

Toasted Rice Biscuit 

Floating Island Cream Cake 

Almonds Apples 

Minute Brew 



FOURTH OF JULY MENU 

Iced Tomato Bouillon — Whipped Cream 

Nut Meat Loaf — Creole Sauce 

Savory Potatoes Peas in Cream Fresh Asparagus 

Summer Salad 

White Bread Rye Bread 

Rice Biscuit 

Red Raspberry Nectar 

Yogurt Ice Cream Roxbury Cakes 

Fresh Red Raspberries Brazil Nuts 



286 THE NEW COOKERY 

THANKSGIVING MENU 

Cream of Chestnut Soup 

Celery Radishes Ripe Olives 

Nut Meat Pie Cranberry Sherbet 

Browned Potatoes Mashed Hubbard Squash 

Fruit Salad a la Cream 

Nut Buns ■ Graham Bread 

Pumpkin Pie Sanitarium Mince Pie 

Oranges Apples 

Minute Brew 



CHRISTMAS MENU 

Macedoine of Fruit 

Saniterrapin Soup — Croutons 

Celery Radishes Ripe Olives 

Chestnut Pie Normandy Loaf — Cranberry Jelly 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes Creamed Brussels Sprouts 

French Salad 

Cinnamon Buns White Bread 

Cream Putfs 

Steamed Fruit Pudding Nuts and Raisins 

Minute Brew 



BANQUET MENUS 

Fruit Cocktail Wafers 

Radishes Celery Salted Almonds 

Manhattan Soup Toast Squares 

Pressed Vegetable Meat Stuffed Pptatoes 

Nut Fillet Peas in Turnip Cups 

Asparagus Tips 

Cherry Nectar 

Head Lettuce — Mayonnaise Yogurt Cheese 

Celery Sandwich 

St. James Pudding — ^Whipped Cream 

Assorted Fruit 

Cereal Coffee 



BALANCED MENUS 287 

BANQUET MENUS— Con/inueJ 

Salpicon of Fruit 

Tomato Bisque Rice Biscuit 

Radishes Pine Nuts Ripe Olives 

Nut Sausage — Savora Sauce Diced Cucumbers 

Protose Roast — Dressing 

Potatoes a la Maitre d*HoteI 

Asparagus Tips on Toast Buns 

Pineapple Sherbet Apple Juice 

Apple and Celery Salad — Wafers 

French Floating Island Vanilla Cakes Assorted Fruit 

Creamed Cheese on Wafers 
Minute Brew 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Aerated Nut Puffs 35 

Aerated Whole Wheat Puffs . . 35 

Albumin Water 271 

Almond Cream 275 

Almond Soup, Cream of 63 

Almonds, Salted 210 

Almond Wafers 232 

Angel Food Cake, Mock 239 

Alpine Eggs 112 

Apple, Almond 187 

Apple, Baked 186 

Apples, Baked with Meltose 

Dressing 186 

Apple and Celery Salad 158 

Apple, Cheese and Nut Salad. . 155 

Apple and Date Salad 156 

Apple, Date and Orange Salad. . 157 

Apple Toast, French 179 

Apple Fritters 102 

Apples, Honey 188 

Apple Jelly 263 

Apple Juice, To Can 259 

Apple, Maple 187 

Apple, New England, Cream Pie 224 

Apple Pie 220 

Apple Sauce Cake 239 

Apple Snow 275 

Apple Snow Balls 211 

Apple Tapioca 187 

Apple Whip 275 

Apples with Rolled Oats 189 

Apricots a la Conde 193 

Apricot Fluff 190 

Apricots, Hydrated 191 

Apricots, Jellied 198 

Apricot Shortcake 237 

Apricots, Stewed 194 

Apricots, To Can 262 

Asparagus, Boiled 144 

Asparagus Broth 77 

Asparagus in Canapes 144 

Asparagrus in Cream 144 

Asparagus Soup, Cream of .... 58 

Asparagus Tips on Toast 176 

Asparagus with Green Peas .... 145 

Baked Caramel Custard 204 

Baked Indian Pudding 246 

Baked Mush 22 

Baking 6 

Bananas, Baked 185 

Banana Dessert ^ . 184 

Banana Fritters 103 

Banana Mold 197 

Bananas Sliced with Cherry 

Sauce 154 

Banana Snow 193 

Banana Toast 180 

Banana and Walnut Salad .... 158 

288 



PAGE 

Barley, Pearl with Dates, 19 

Barley Soup 70 

Barley Soup, Cream of 59 

Barley Water 271 

Beans, Baked 97 

Beans, Baked Lima 98 

Bean, Baked, Sandwiches 46 

Bean Soup, Cream of Lima .... 65 

Bean, Green Lima, Toast 178 

Bean Croquettes 99 

Beans, Dried Lima 140 

Beans, Macaroni and Kidney. . . 106 

Bean, Lima, Loaf 98 

Bean Soup, Lima 75 

Bean Salad 140 

Bean Souffle 99 

Bean Soup 74 

Bean Soup, Cream of 65 

Bean, Black, Soup 76 

Beans, String 140 

Beans, String, in Cream 140 

Bean and Tapioca Soup 75 

Beans, To Can 269 

Beaten Biscuit 36 

Beating 8 

Bechamel Sauce 116 

Berkeley Salad 158 

Beet and Bean Salad 164 

Beets, Buttered 151 

Beets, Italian 151 

Beets and Peas in Aspic 167 

Beet, Russian, Soup 63 

Beet Salad 161 

Beets, To Can 270 

Bethlehem Stars 232 

Beverages — 

Buttermilk, Yogurt 11 

Cereal Coffee 10 

Cocoa, Sanitas 11 

Fruit Punch 14 

Golden Nectar 13 

Mint Julep 13 

Minute Brew 10 

Orange Yogurt 13 

Raspberrv Nectar 14 

Tea, Kaffir 11 

Biscuit, Beaten 36 

Biscuit, Bran and Graham .... 41 

Biscuit, Cream 39 

Biscuit, Pin Wheel, Fruit Rolls 

or 40 

Blanc Mange, Cocoanut 206 

Blanc Mange, Chocolate 205 

Blueberry Muffins 44 

Boiling 5 

Bouillon, Savora 79 

Bouillon, Tomato 68 

Bouillon, Vegetable 78 

Braised Protose 85 



INDEX 



289 



PAGE 

Braizing 7 

Bran Gems 43 

Bran and Graham Biscuit 41 

Bran and Granola Mush 22 

Bran Brose, Scotch 18 

Bran, To Sterilize 18 

Bread, Boston Brown 38 

Bread, Corn 27 

Bread Oustard 202 

Bread, Fruit 26 

Bread, Graham 26 

Bread, Soft Graham 27 

Bread, Milk 28 

Bread, Nut 39 

Bread, Salt Rising 28 

Bread Sticks 54 

Bread, White 25 

Bread, Whole Wheat 26 

Breaded Tomatoes 141 

Breads, Fermented 23 

Breads, Unfermented 33 

Broiling 5 

Broiling, Pan 5 

Broth, Asparagus 77 

Broth, Mock Chicken 79 

Broth, Protose 77 

Broth, Savora 78 

Broth, Savora Rice 73 

Broth, Vegetable 272 

Brown Betty 188 

Brown Sauce 115 

Brown Stock 17 

Browned Onion, Cream of. Soup 57 

Browned Potatoes 128 

Browned Sweet Potatoes 132. 

Brussels Sprouts, Creamed .... 134 

Bulgarian Salad 168 

Buns 29 

Buns, Cinnamon 30 

Buns, Nut 30 

Burnt Leather Cake 236 

Butter Balls 52 

Butter, Sterilized or Sweet ... 51 

Buttered Vegetable Oysters .... 149 

Buttermilk, Yogurt 11 

Cabbage, Baked 136 

Cabbage, Baked, a la Russe .... 136 

Cabbage and Celery 167 

Cabbage, Creamed 135 

Cabbage Salad 160 

Cabbage in Tomato 135 

Cabbage, Scalloped 136 

Cabbage, Stewed 134 

Cabinet Pudding 249 

Cake Fillings 243 

Fruit Filling 244 

Lemon Filling 244 

Marshmallow Filling 245 

Orange Filling 245 

Cake Fillings and Icings 243 

Cake, Golden Corn 37 

Cake, Hoe 36 

Cake, Oaten 37 

Cakes, Potato 124 



PAGE 

Cakes, Potato, with Gravy .... 124 

Cakes 228 

Ahnond Wafers 232 

Angel Food, White Sponge ... 231 

Apple Sauce 239 

Apricot Shortcake 237 

Bethlehem Stars 232 

Burnt Leather 236 

Cinnamon 235 

Coflfee 38 

Cookies 238 

Economy or Light Fruit 240 

Fruit Drop 241 

Gold 241 

Jelly Roll 240 

Ladv Fingers 233 

Mock Angel Pood 239 

Nut 236 

Nut Sponge 230 

One Egg 236 

Orange 233 

Orange Sponge 231 

Plain 233 

Roxburv Cakes 234 

Small Fancy Cakes 234 

Sponge 229 

Sunshine 230 

Tea Pretzels 242 

White Layer 235 

Candied Orange Peel 264 

Canning and Preserving 256 

Caramel Corn Starch Pudding. . 205 

Caramel Custard 201 

Carrots, Creamed 137 

Carrots with Green Peas 137 

Catsup, Grape 169 

Cauliflower au Gratin 134 

Cauliflower, Buttered 133 

Cauliflower, Creamed 134 

Oftnliflower Salad 165 

Celery, Creamed, on Toast .... 176 

Celery, Cabbage and. Salad .... 167 

Celery Relish 169 

Celery Sauce 117 

Celery Salad 166 

Celery, Peas and. Salad 160 

Celery Sandwiches 48 

Celery, Cream of. Soup 54 

Celery and Tomato Salad 166 

Cereal Coffee 10 

Cereal Roast 96 

Cereals — 

Cream of Wheat 19 

Farina 19 

Good Health Breakfast Food. 20 

Hominy, Creamed 21 

Hominy Grits 21 

Mush, Baked 22 

Mush, Bran and Granola .... 22 
Mush, Baked Cornmeal, or 

Commeal Cutlets 21 

Mush, Cornmeal 21 

Mush, Graham, with Dates . 20 

Mush, Gluten .' 20 

Mush, Creamed Gluten 20 



290 



INDEX 



PAGE 
Cereals — 

Mush, Granola Fruit 22 

Oats, Rolled 18 

Pearl Barley with Dates ... 19 

Rice, Boiled 16 

Rice, Boiled («Knpaneee 

Method) 16 

Rice, Savory 18 

Rice, Plain Steamed 17 

Rice, Steamed or Creamed . . 17 

Scotch Bran Brose 18 

To Sterilize Bran 18 

Turkish Pilaf 17 

Wheat, Hulled 19 

Cheese Balls 168 

Cheese, Cottage 52 

Cheese, Cottage, Sandwiches ... 47 

Cheese, Creamed, on Wafers . . . 169 

Cheese and Pineapple Sandwiches 47 

Cheese Salad 168 

Cheese Straws 226 

Cheese, Yogurt, Rarebit 176 

Cherries, To Can 262 

Cherries with Stones, To Can . . 262 

Cherry Pie 221 

Cherry, Filbert and. Salad .... 155 

Chestnuts, Creamed 97 

Chestnut Pie 97 

Chestnut Roast 96 

Chestnut Soup, Cream of 60 

Chestnuts with Tomato Sauce . . 97 

Chili Sauce 172 

Chipped Protose in Cream .... 86 

Chocolate Blanc Mange 205 

Chowder, Corn 61 

Chowder, Potato 61 

Chowder, Washington 61 

Cinnamon Buns 30 

Cinnamon Cake 235 

Cobbler, Peach 226 

Cocktail. Fruit 183 

Cocoa, Sanitas 11 

Cocoanut Blanc Mange 206 

Cdcoanut Cream Pie 223 

Cocoanut Custard 201 

Cocoanut Dates 184 

Cocoanut Sauce 254 

CoflPee. Cereal 10 

Cold Slaw 162 

Combination Green Salad 159 

Compote of Fruit with Rice .... 209 

Compote, Orange 208 

Cooked Mayonnaise 172 

Cookies 238 

Corn Bread 27 

Com, Creamed 132 

Corn Chowder 61 

Com, Escalloped 132 

Corn Gems 43 

Corn, Golden, Cake 37 

Com, Macaroni with 105 

Corn Pone 36 

Corn Pudding 133 

Corn Roast 102 

Corn Soup, Cream of 54 



PAGE 

Corn, To Can 269 

Cornmeal Gruel 271 

Cornmeal Mush 21 

Cornmeal Mush, Baked, or Corn- 
meal Cutlets 21 

Cornstarch Pudding 204 

Cornstarch Pudding, Caramel . . 205 

Cottage Pudding 248 

Cranberry Jelly 266 

Cranberry Sauce 194 

Cranberry Sherbet 215 

Cranberry, Spiced, Jelly 267 

Crabapples, To Can 262 

Cream, Brown, Gravy 119 

Cream Biscuit 39 

Cream Crisps 35 

Cream, Malted Nuts 274 

Cream Mayonnaise Dressing ... 174 

Cream, Mock Whipped 255 

Cream of Wheat 19 

Cream PuflPs 210 

Cream dalad Dressing 174 

Cream Sauce 116 

Cream, Savora, Sauce 120 

Cream Soups 53 

Cream Toast 175 

Cream Tomato Toast 179 

Cream Tomato Sauce 117 

Cream, To Whip 254 

Creamed Toast 175 

Crecy, Cream of. Soup 58 

Creole Sauce 118 

Creole Soup 68 

Croquettes, Bean 99 

Croquettes, Hominy 101 

Croquettes, Nut and Rice 86 

Croquettes, Nuttolene 91 

Croquettes, Potato 124 

Croquettes, Potato and Rice ... 126 

Croquettes, Sweet Potato 131 

Crosnes, Creamed Japanese .... 149 

Croutons 53 

Cucumbers, Stuffed 152 

Cucumber Jelly 170 

Cup Custard 201 

Custards — 

Bread 202 

Caramel 201 

Caramel, Baked 204 

Cocoanut 201 

Cup 201 

General Directions 200 

Tapioca Custard Pudding . . . 20? 

Tests for Being Done 200 

Custards and Cold Desserts .... 200 

Custard Sauce 253 

Dairv Products 51 

Butter Balls 52 

Butter, Sterilized or Sweet . . 51 

Cheese, Cottage 52 

Milk, Pasteurized 51 

Dasheen, Escalloped 150 

Dasheen, Sliced, in Cream .... 150 

Dasheen Soup, Cream of 64 



INDEX 



291 



PAGE 

Date and Apple Fluflf 189 

Date, Apple and, Salad 156 

Date Cream Pie 222 

Date Marmalade 192 

Date Muffins 44 

Date Pudding 251 

Date Surprise 206 

Date Toast 180 

Date and Walnut Salad 159 

Desserts 182 

Almonds, Salted 210 

Apple Snow Balls 211 

Chocolate Blanc Mange 205 

Cocoanut Blanc Mange 206 

Compote of Fruit with Rice. . 209 

Cream Puflfs •. 210 

Date Surprise 206 

Filling for Cream Puflfs 211 

French Floating Island 203 

Frozen Desserts 213 

Cranberry Sherbet 215 

Frozen Malted Nuts 

General Directions for Freez- 
ing 213 

Grape Sherbet 217 

Lemon Gelee 214 

Milk Sherbet 217 

Orange Water Ice 216 

Peaches, Frozen 216 

Peach Sherbet 216 

Pineapple Cream 215 

Pineapple Frapp6 217 

Strawberry Gelee . 214 

Yogurt Ice Cream 215 

Indian Trifle 207 

Lemon Cream 203 

- Maple Marguerites 211 

Orange Compote 208 

Orange FluflP 209 

Pineapple Cream Dessert .... 212 

Drop Cake, Fruit 241 

Drawn Butter Sauce 119 

Dressing for Boasts 82 

Economy or Light Fruit Cake . . 240 

Egg Macaroni 104 

Egg Nog, Foamy 273 

Egg Nog, Fruit 274 

Egg Nog, Lemon 273 

Egg Nog, Malted Nuts 274 

Egg Nog, Milk 274 

Egg and Olive Sandwiches .... 48 

Egg Plant, Baked 148 

Egg Plant, Creamed 147 

Egg Plant, Stuffed 148 

Eggs 109 

Alpine 112 

Baked, in Cream 110 

Hard Boiled HO 

Soft Boiled 109 

in Canapes with Celery Sauce 111 

Escalloped 112 

Spanish Ill 

Poached 109 

Scrambled 110 



PAGE 

Eggs — 

Egg Timbales Ill 

Eggs, Onions and, in White 

Sauce 147 

Egg Sandwiches 46 

Egg Sauce 116 

Egg Timbales Ill 

Entrees and Meat Substitutes. . 81 

Fancy Cakes, Small 2B4 

Farina 19 

Fermented Breads 23 

Fig Pudding 251 

Figs, Steamed 189 

Figs, Stuffed 189 

Filbert and Cherry Salad 155 

Fillet of Nut Meat 84 

Filling for Cream Puffs 211 

Frappe, Pineapple 217 

Filling, Fruit 244 

Filling, Lemon 244 

Filling, Marshmallow 245 

Filling, Orange 245 

Fireless Cooking 7 

Fire, To BuUd 2 

Folding 9 

French Floating Island 203 

French Omelet 113 

French Salad 163 

French Salad Dressing 172 

Fricasseeing 7 

Fritters, Apple 102 

Fritters, Banana 103 

Fritters, Prune 103 

Fritters, Salsify 149 

Frosting, Boiled 243 

Frosting, Orange 245 

Frosting, Ornamental 243 

Frozen Desserts 213 

Frozen Malted Nuts 276 

Frozen Peaches 216 

Fruits and Fruit Desserts 181 

Apple, Almond 187 

Apple, Baked 186 

Apples, Baked, with Meltose 

Dressing 186 

Apples, Honey 188 

Apples, Maple 187 

Apple Tapioca 187 

Apples with Boiled Oats .... 189 

Apricots a la Conde 193 

Apricot Fluff 190 

Anricots, Hvdrated 191 

Apricots, Stewed 194 

Bananas, Baked 185 

Banana Dessert 184 

Banana Snow 193 

Brown Bettv 188 

Cranberry Sauce 194 

Dates, Cocoanut 184 

Date and Apple Fluff 189 

Date Marmalade 192 

Figs, Steamed 189 

Figs, Stuffed 189 

Fruit Cocktail 183 



292 



INDEX 



PAGK 

Fruits and Fruit Desserts — 

Fruit Macedoine 182 

. Fruit Sandwich with Whipped 

Cream 192 

Grape Fruit Cocktail 183 

Grape Sauce 194 

Macedoine of Fruit 184 

Orange Bread Dessert 192 

Oranges, Segmented, with 

Whipped Cream 184 

Peaches and Cream with Bice 

Biscuits 185 

Pears, Baked 185 

Prune Fluff . . .\ 190 

Prunes, Hydrated 192 

Prunes, Stewed 185 

Prune Whip 191 

Quince Sauce 194 

Rice with Prune Fluff 190 

Salpicon of Fruit 199 

Fruit Bread 26 

Fruit Cocktail 183 

Fruit Drop Cake 241 

Fruit Jelly 196 

Fruit Macedoine 182 

Fruit Pudding, Steamed 249 

Fruit Pudding, Granola 246 

Fruit Punch 14 

Fruit Rolls or Pin Wheel Bis- 
cuit 40 

Fruit Salad 153 

Fruit Salad a la Cream 157 

Fruit Sandwich with Whipped 

Cream 192 

Fruit Soup 74 

Fruit Toast 180 

Fruit, To Can 256 

Fruit, To Can, by Oven Method. 257 

Fruit, To Can, with Water Bath. 258 

Frying 6 

Gas Flame 3 

Gelee, Lemon 214 

Gelee, Strawberry 214 

Gems, Bran 43 

Gems, Corn 43 

Gems, Graham 42 

Gems, Whole Wheat 42 

General Directions for Custards 200 

General Directions for Freezing. 213 
General Directions for Vegetable 

Gelatine 195 

German Potato Salad 164 

Gluten Bread 276 

Gluten Mush 20 

Gluten Mush, Creamed 20 

Gluten Puffs 276 

Gold Cake 241 

Golden Com Cake 37 

Golden Dressing 173 

Golden Nectar 13 

Golden Sauce 253 

Good Health Breakfast Food . . 20 

Graham Bread 26 

Graham Bread, Soft 27 



PAGS 

Graham Gems 42 

Graham Hurry-Ups 41 

Graham Mush with Dates 20 

Graham Pudding 250 

Granola, Bran and, Mush 22 

Granola Crust 219 

Granola Fruit Mush 22 

Granola Fruit Pudding 246 

Grape Catsup 169 

Grape Fruit and Celery Salad . . 156 
Grape Fruit, Orange and. Mar- 
malade 267 

Grape Fruit Cocktail 183 

Grape Juice, To Can 259 

Grape Sherbet 217 

Grape Sauce 194 

Gravies and Sauces 115 

Gravy, Brown Cream 119 

Green Lima Beans on Toast ... 178 

Green Peas, Boiled 142 

Green Pea Soup 69 

Green Peas, English Style 142 

Green Tomato Preserves 268 

Gruel, Oatmeal 271 

Gruel, Toasted Flake 272 

Ham, Vegetarian 93 

Hard Boiled Eggs 110 

Hard Sauce 253 

Hash, Potato and Celery 129 

Hash, Potato and Onion 129 

Hash, Protose, with Rice and 

Peas 87 

Hashed Brown Potatoes 128 

Hollandaise Sauce 120 

Hominy, Creamed 21 

Hominy Croquettes 101 

Hominy Grits 21 

Hot Puddings 246 

Hot Slaw 135 

How to Combine Ingredients ... 8 

How to Measure 7 

Hulled Wheat 19 

Hydrated Prunes 192 

Ice Cream, Malt Honey 276 

Ice Cream, Yogurt 215 

Icings 243 

Boiled Frosting 243 

Orange Frosting 245 

Ornamental Frosting 248 

Indian Trifle 207 

Invalid Dishes 271 

Italian Soup 69 

Jam, Red Raspberry 268 

Jam, Strawberry 267 

Jellied Apricots 198 

Jellied Peach 197 

Jelly, Apple 263 

Jelly, Cranberry 266 

Jelly, Spiced Cranberry 267 

Jelly, Cucumber 170 

Jelly, Lemon 195 

Jelly, Mint 169 



INDEX 



293 



PAGE 

Jelly, Orange 196 

Jelly, Pineapple 196 

Jelly, Quince 263 

Jelly Roll 240 

Jelly, Tomato 171 

Jelly, Yogurt or Buttermilk .... 171 

Kaffir Tea 11 

Lady Fingers 233 

Lima Beans, Baked 98 

Lima Bean Soup 75 

Lemon Cream 203 

Lemon Cream Sauce 252 

Lemon Jelly *. 195 

Lemon Gelee 214 

Jemon Pie 220 

Lemon Sauce 252 

Lettuce Sandwiches 47 

Lentil and Potato Loaf 101 

Lentils, Baked 100 

Lentil Soup 77 

Lentil Soup, Cream of 64 

Light Fruit, Economy or, Cake. 240 

Log Cabin Pudding 247 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 129 

Macaroni and Kidney Beans . . . 106 

Macaroni au Gratin 105 

Macaroni, Egg 104 

Macaroni, To Cook 104 

Macaroni, To Know Good 104 

Macaroni with Corn 105 

Macaroni with Eggs 107 

Macaroni with Tomato Sauce . . 105 

Macedoine Salad 161 

Macedoine of Fruit 184 

Malted Milk, Hot 273 

Malted Nuts, Frozen 276 

Malted Nuts, Hot 272 

Malt Honey Ice Cream 276 

Malt Honey Whip 275 

Malt Honey wih Butter 275 

Malted Nuts Egg Nog 274 

Manhattan Soup. 66 

Maple Apple 187 

Maple Marguerites 211 

Maple Sauce 255 

Marguerites, Maple 211 

Marmalade and Cheese Sand- 

. wiches 47 

Mashed Summer Squash 152 

Mayonnaise Dressing 173 

Mayonnaise Dressing, Cooked . . 172 

Mayonnaise Dressing, Cream ... 174 

Meat, Entrees and. Substitutes. . 81 

Meltose Dressing 254 

Methods of Cooking 5 

Milk Bread 28 

Milk, Pasteurized 51 

Milk Sherbet 217 

Mince, Sanitarium, Pie 222 

Minced Potatoes 128 

Mint Jelly 169 

Mint Julep 13 



PAGE 

Minute Brew 10 

Mock Chicken Broth 79 

Mock Chicken Soup 74 

Mock Whipped Cream 255 

Mock Turkey, Savory Roast or. . 99 

Mock Veal Loaf, Normandy or . . 86 

Muffins, Blueberry 44 

Muffins, Date 44 

Muffins, Rice 43 

Mush, Baked 22 

Mushroom Sauce 119 

Mushroom, Oatme&l and. Soup . . 62 

Nectar, Gblden 13 

Nectar, Raspberry 14 

New Peas and Potatoes 143 

Noodle Soup 80 

Noodles 73 

Normandy or Mock Veal Loaf . . 86 

Nut and Apple Pie 85 

Nut Bread 39 

Nut Buns 30 

Nut and Vegetable Stew 88 

Nut Cake 236 

Nut Chops 94 

Nut Fillet 83 

Nut French Soup 71 

Nut Meal Crust or Nut Meal 

Pastry 219 

Nut Meat Loaf 93 

Nut Meat Pie 91 

Nut or Protose Cutlets 84 

Nut Patties 94 

Nut and Rice Croquettes 86 

Nut Sausage 87 

Nut Sponge Cake 230 

Nuttolene a la Cream 90 

Nuttolene, Baked 90 

Nuttolene, Broiled 89 

Nuttolene Croquettes 91 

Nuttolene Cutlets 89 

Nuttolene Fricassee 90 

Nuttolene with Mint Sauce .... 89 

Oatmeal and Mushroom Soup . . 62 

Oats, Rolled 18 

Okra and Tomatoes 151 

Okra, Creamed, on Toast 178 

Okra Soup 69 

Okra Soup, Cream of 58 

Omelets 113 

French Omelet 113 

Puflf Omelets 113 

Rice Omelet 114 

One Egg Cake 236 

Onions, Baked 146 

Onions, Boiled 145 

Onions and Eggs in White Sauce 147 

Onions on Toast 177 

Onion Souffie 147 

Onion Soup, Cream of Browned. 57 

Onions, Stewed 146 

Onions, Stuffed 146 

Onions, Young, in Cream 146 

Orange Bread Dessert 192 



294 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Orange Cake 233 

Orange Egg Nog 273 

Orange Fluff 209 

Orange and Grape Fruit Mar- 
malade 267 

Orange Jelly 196 

Orange Mold 197 

Orange Peel, Candied 264 

Orange Pie 224 

Orange Sauce 253 

Oranges, Segmented with Whipped 

Cream 184 

Orange Sponge Cake 231 

Orange Yogurt 13 

Orange Water Ice 216 

Oven Method, To Can Fruit by. 257 

Oven, To Regulate Heat of ... . 4 

Parker house Rolls 29 

Parsnips, Creamed 139 

Parsnips, Mashed 139 

Pasteurized Milk 51 

Pastry and Pies 218 

Pastry, Plain 220 

Pastry Strips 226 

Patties, Nut 94 

Patties, Peas 100 

Patties, Rice 103 

Peaches and Cream with Rice 

Biscuits 185 

Peach Cobbler 226 

Peaches, Frozen 216 

Peach, Jellied 197 

Peaches, Preserved 265 

Peach Sherbet 216 

Peaches, To Can 260 

Peaches, To Can Sliced 260 

Peanut Roast 95 

Pears, Baked 185 

Pear Chips 265 

Pears, Preserved 265 

Peas and Celery 143 

Peas and Celery Salad 160 

Peas, Creamed 142 

Peas, Green, Boiled 142 

Peas, Green, English Style .... 142 

Peas, Green, Asparagus with . . 145 

Peas, Green, Carrots with 137 

Peas Patties 100 

Peas, Rice with 143 

Peas Soup No. 1, Cream of 

Green 60 

Peas Soup No. 2, Cream of 

Green 60 

Peas, Split, Puree 75 

Pies and Pastry 218 

Apple Pie 220 

Anple Tart 226 

Cheese Straws 226 

Cherry Pie 221 

Cream, New England Apple, 

Pie 224 

Cream, Cocoanut, Pie 223 

Cream, Date, Pie 222 

Cream, Vanilla, Pie 223 



PAQE 

Pies and Pastry—^ 

Crust, Granola 219 

Crust, Nut Meal or Nut Meal 

Pastry 219 

Lemon Pie 220 

Mince, Sanitarium, Pie 222 

Orange Pie 224 

Pastry, Plain 220 

Pastry Strips 226 

Peach Cobbler 226 

Pineapple Pie 225 

Pumpkin Pie 221 

Sweet Potato Pie 225 

Pie, Nut Meat 91 

Pineapple and Nut Salad 154 

Pineapple and Strawberry Salad 157 

Pineapple Cream 215 

Pineapple Cream Dessert 212 

Pineapple Jelly 196 

Pie, Chestnut 97 

Pineapple Pie 225 

Pineapple Tapioca Pudding .... 193 

Pineapple, To Can 260 

Pine Nut Roast 94 

Pin Wheel Biscuit, Fruit Rolls or 40 

Piquant Sauce 118 

Potato a la Maitre 127 

Potato and Celery Salad 163 

Potato and Celery Hash 129 

Potato and Onion Hash 129 

Potato and Rice Croquettes .... 126 

Potatoes au Gratin 130 

Potato Balls en Surprise 125 

Potatoes, Browned 128 

Potato Cakes 124 

Potato Cakes with Gravy 124 

Potatoes, Hashed Brown 128 

Potato Croquettes 124 

Potato Loaf 126 

Potato, Lentil and. Loaf 101 

Potatoes, Lyonnaise 129 

Potatoes, Mashed 123 

Potatoes, Minced 128 

Potatoes, Parisian 124 

Potato Puff 1?5 

Potato Salad 162 

Potatoes, Savory 127 

Potatoes, Scalloped 126 

Potatoes, Sliced, in Cream 130 

Potato Soup 70 

Potato Soup, Cream of, No. 1 . . 55 

Potato Soup, Cream of. No. 2 . . 55 

Potato, Savorv, Soup 70 

Potatoes, Stuffed 127 

Potatoes, To Boil 122 

Potatoes, To Bake 123 

Preserved Peaches 265 

Preserved Pears 265 

Preserves, Green Tomato 268 

Preserves, Strawberry 265 

Preserves, Watermelon 266 

Preserving, Canning and 256 

Pressed Vegetable Meat 91 

Protose, Braised 85 

Protose, Broiled 89 



INDEX 



295 



PAOB 

Protose Broth 77 

Protose Cakes with Gravy 124 

Protose, Chipped, in Cream .... 86 

Protose Fillet 83 

Protose Hash with Bice and Peas 87 

Protose, Nut or, Cutlets 84 

Protose, Panned 84 

Protose, Roast, with Dressing . . 82 

Protose Steak with Onions .... 88 

Prune Fluff 190 

Prune Fritters 103 

Prunes, Hydrated 192 

Prunes, Stewed 185 

Prune Toast 180 

Prune Whip 191 

Puff Omelets 113 

Puffs, Aerated Nut 35 

Puffs, Aerated Whole Wheat ... 35 

Pumpkin Pie 221 

Puddings — 

Baked Indian 246 

Cabinet 249 

Caramel Cornstarch 205 

Cornstarch 204 

Cottage 248 

Cream of Rice 207 

Date 251 

Fig 251 

Fruit, Steamed 249 

Graham 250 

Granola Fruit 246 

Log Cabin 247 

Pineapple Tapioca 193 

Queen of 203 

Rice, Plain 207 

Rice Pudding with Orange 

Compote 208 

Snow 206 

St. James 248 

Vevey 247 

Quince Jelly 268 

Quince Sauce 194 

Raspberry Nectar 14 

Raspberry Sauce 252 

Relishes 168 

Celery 169 

Cheese Balls 168 

Cheese, Creamed, on Wafers . 169 

Chili Sauce 172 

Grape Catsup 169 

Jelly, Cucumber 170 

Jelly, Mint 169 

Jelly, Tomato 171 

Jelly, Yogurt or Buttermilk. . 171 

Toast, Russian 170 

Turnip Puree 170 

Red Raspberry Jam 268 

Rice a la Carolina . . . . : 92 

Rice, Boiled 16 

Rice, Boiled, (Japanese Method) 16 

Rice Muffins 43 

Rice Omelet 114 

Rice Patties 103 



PAGE 

Rice Pudding, Cream of 207 

Rice Pudding, Plain 207 

Rice Pudding with Orange Com- 
pote 208 

Rice, Savory 18 

Rice Soup, Cream of 56 

Rice, Steamed or Creamed 17 

Rice, Plain Steamed 17 

Rice with Peas 143 

Rice with Prune Fluff 190 

Roast, Cereal 96 

Roast, Chestnut 96 

Roast, Corn 102 

Roast, Peanut 95 

Roast, Pine Nut 94 

Roast Protose with Dressing ... 82 

Roast, Walnut 95 

Roast, Savory, or Mock Turky . . 99 

Roasting 6 

Rolls, Parkerhouse 28 

Roxbury Cakes 234 

Royal Salad 166 

Russian Toast 170 

Salads 153 

Apple and' Celery 158 

Apple, Cheese and Nut 155 

Apple and Date 156 

Apple, Date and 9tange .... 157 
Bananas, Sliced, with Cherry 

Sauce 154 

Banana and Walnut 158 

Bean, String 160 

Beet 161 

Beet and Bean 164 

Beets and Peas in Aspic ... 167 

Berkeley 158 

Bulgarian 168 

Cabbage 160 

Cabbage and Celery 167 

Cauliflower 165 

Celery 166 

Celery and Tomato 166 

Cheese 168 

Cold Slaw 162 

Combination Green 159 

Date and Walnut 159 

Filbert and Cherry 155 

French 163 

Fruit, a la Cream 157 

Fruit 153 

Grape Fruit and Celery 156 

Macedoine 161 

Peas and Celery 160 

Pineapple and Nut 154 

Pineapple and Strawberry . . 157 

Potato 162 

Potato, German 164 

Potato and Celery 16.^ 

Royal 166 

Salad in Tomato Cups 164 

Summer 165 

Tomato 165 

Tomato, with Mayonnaise 

Dressing 162 



296 



INDBX 



PAQS 

Salads — 

Tomato and Cauliflower 161 

Waldorf Salad 154 

WaterlUv Salad 167 

Salads and Relishes 158 

Salad Dressings 172 

Cream 174 

French 172 

Mayonnaise 173 

Mayonnaise, Cooked 172 

Mayonnaise, Cream 174 

Golden 173 

Salad in Tomato Cups 164 

Salt Rising Bread 28 

Salpicon of Fruit 199 

Salsify Fritters 149 

Sandwiches 46 

Bean, Baked 46 

Celery 48 

Cheese and Pineapple 47 

Cheese, Cottage 47 

Egg 46 

Egg and Olive 48 

Lettuce 47 

Marmalade and Cheese ....... 47 

Yogurt and Jelly 46 

Sanitarium Mince Pie 222 

Saniterrapin Soup 71 

Sauces for Puddings 252 

Cocoanut 254 

Cream, To Whip 254 

Custard 253 

Golden 253 

Hard 253 

Lemon Cream 252 

Lemon 252 

Maple ... 255 

Meltose Dressing 254 

Mock Whipped Cream 255 

Orange 253 

Raspberry 252 

Vanilla 255 

Sauces for Vegetables 115 

Bechamel 116 

Brown 115 

Celery 117 

Cream 116 

Creole 118 

Drawn Butter 119 

Egg 116 

Hollandaise 120 

Mushroom 119 

Piquant 118 

Sauce for Vegetables 116 

SaYora Cream 120 

Tomato 117 

Tomato, Cream 117 

White 115 

White, Thin 115 

Sausage, Nut 87 

Saut^ing 6 

Savora Broth 78 

Savora Cream Sauce 120 

Savora Bouillon 79 

Savora Rice Broth 73 



▼ PAGB 

3avory Potato Soup 70 

Savory Potatoes 127 

Savory Rice 18 

Scalloped Potatoes 126 

Scalloped Vegetable Oysters .... 150 

Scotch Bran Brose 18 

Scotch Pea Soup, Cream of ... . 65 

Scrambled Eggs 110 

Sherbet, Cranberry 215 

Sherbet, Grape 217 

Sherbet, Milk 217 

Sherbet, Peach 216 

Slaw, Cold 162 

Snow Flake Toast 175 

Snow Pudding 206 

Soft Boiled Eggs 109 

Souffle, Bean 99 

Souffl6, Onion 147 

Souffle, Spinach 138 

Soups — 

Cream Soups 53 

Almond, Cream of 63 

Asparagus,' Cream of 58 

Barley 70 

Barley, Cream of 59 

Bean 74 

Bean, Cream of 65 

Bean and Tapioca 75 

Black Bean 76 

Browned Onion, Cream of . . . 57 

Celerv, Cream of 54 

Crecy, Cream of 58 

Chestnut, Cream of 60 

Com Chowder 61 

Potato Chowder 61 

Washington Chowder 61 

- Corn, Cream of 54 

Creole 68 

Dasheen, Cream of 64 

Fruit 74 

Green Pea 69 

Green Pea, Cream of. No. 1 . . 60 

Green Pea, Cream of. No. 2 . . 60 

Italian 69 

Lentil 77 

Lentil, Cream of 64 

Lima Bean 75 

Lima Bean, Cream of 65 

Manhattan 66 

Mock Chicken 74 

Noodle 80 

Nut French 71 

Oatmeal and Mushroom 62 

Okra 69 

Okra, Cream of 58 

Scotch Pea, Cream of 65 

Split Pea Puree 75 

Split Pea, Cream of 66 

Plain Soups 67 

Potato 70 

Potato, Cream of, No. 1 55 

Potato, Cream of, No. 2 55 

Potato, Savory 70 

Saniterrapin 71 

Rice, Cream of 56 



INDEZ 



297 



PAQB 

Soups 

Squash, Oream of 62 

Sweet Potato, Oream of 59 

Tomato Bisque 62 

Tomato and Celery 67 

Tomato 67 

Tomato, Cream of 55 

Tomato Vermicelli 69 

Vegetable Consomme with Peas 78 

Vegetable Oyster . ^ . 71 

Vegetable Oyster, Cream of, 

No. 1 56 

Vegetable Oyster, Cream of, 

No. 2 i 57 

Vegetable 72 

Vegetable, Thick 72 

Vegetable, with Noodles 73 

Split Pea, Cream of, Soup 66 

Spaghetti Milanaise 108 

Spanish Cream *L98 

Spanish Eggs Ill 

Spinach, Boiled 137 

Spinach on Toast, Creamed .... 177 

Spinach Souffle , . 138 

Split Peas Puree 75 

Split Pea, Cream of, Soup 66 

Sponge Cake 229 

Sponge, Nut, Cake 230 

Sponge, Orange, Cake 231 

Squash, Mashed Summer 152 

Squash Soup, Cream of 62 

Steamed Fruit Pudding 249 

Steamed or Creamed Rice 17 

Steamed Bice, Plain 17 

Steaming 5 

St. James Pudding 248 

Sterilized or Sweet Butter 51 

Stewing 5 

Stirring 8 

Strawberry Gelee 214 

Strawberry Salad, Pineapple and 157 

Strawberry Jam 267 

Strawberry Preserves 265' 

Strawberries, To Can 261 

String Beans 140 

Structure of the Gas Stove .... 3 

Stuffed Tomatoes 141 

Succotash 133 

Sunshine Cake 230 

Summer Salad 165 

Sweet Potatoes, Browned 132 

Sweet Potatoes, Creamed 131 

Sweet Potato Croquettes 131 

Sweet Potatoes, Glazed 130 

Sweet Potato Pie 225 

Sweet Potato Soup, Cream of . . 59 

Swiss Chard 138 

Tapioca, Bean and, Soup .... 75 

Tapioca, Apple 187 

Tapioca Custard Pudding 202 

Tapioca, Pineapple, Pudding . . 193 

Tart, Apple 226 

Tea, Kaffir 11 

Tea Pretzels 242 



PAQB 

Tests for Being Done 200 

Thick Vegetable Soup 72 

Thin White Sauce 115 

Toasts 175 

French Apple 179 

Asparagus Tips on 176 

Banana 180 

Creamed Celery on 176 

Cream 175 

Creamed 175 

Date 180 

Fruit 180 

Green Lima Beans on 178 

Creamed Okra on 178 

Onions on 177 

Prune 180 

Snow Flake 175 

Creamed Spinach on 177 

Baked Tomato on 179 

Cream Tomato 179 

Yogurt Cheese Rarebit 176 

Tomato, Celery and. Salad 166 

Tomato and Celery Soup 67 

Tomato and Cauliflower 161 

Tomatoes, Okra and 151 

Tomato Bouillon 68 

Tomato, Cream, Toast 179 

Tomato, Salad in. Cups 164 

Tomatoes, Baked 142 

Tomato, Baked, on Toast 179 

Tomato Bisque 62 

Tomatoes, Breaded 141 

Tomato Jelly 171 

Tomato, Green, Preserves 268 

Tomato Salad 165 

Tomato Sauce 106 

Tomato Sauce 117 

Tomato Soup 67 

Tomato Soup, Cream of 55 

Tomatoes, Stuffed 141 

Tomatoes, Stuffed, with Olives. . 141 

Tomatoes, To Can 268 

Tomato Vermicelli Soup 69 

Tomato with Mayonnaise Dress- 
ing 162 

Top Burner, To Light the 4 

Turkish Pilaf 17 

Turnips, Creamed 139 

Turnips, Creamed, on Toast . . 139 

Turnips, Mashed 138 

Turnip Puree 170 

Unfermented Breads 33 

Vanilla Oream Pie 223 

Vanilla Sauce 255 

Vegetable Broth 272 

Vegetable Bouillon 78 

Vegetable Consomme with Peas. 78 

Vegetable Gelatine Desserts . . . 195 

Apricots, Jellied 198 

Banana Mold 197 

Fruit Jelly 196 



298 



INDEX 



PAQB 

Vegetable Gelatine Desserts — 
General Directions for Vege- 
table Gelatine 195 

Peach, Jellied 197 

Lemon Jelly 195 

Orange Mold 197 

Orange Jelly 196 

Pineapple Jelly 196 

Spanish Cream 198 

Vegetable Meat, Pressed 91 

Vegetable Soup, Thick 72 

Vegetable Oysters, Buttered . . . 149 

Vegetable Oysters, Scalloped ... 150 

Vegetable Oyster Soup 71 

Vegetable Oyster Soup, Oream of, 

No. 1 56 

Vegetable Oyster Soup, Oream of, 

No. 2 57 

Vegetables, Sauce for 116 

Vegetable Soup 72 

Vegetable Soup with Noodles . . 73 

Vegetables 121 

Vegetables, To Can 268 

Vegetarian Ham 93 

Vermicdli, Tomato, Soup 69 



PAGK 

Vevey Pudding 247 

Waldorf Salad 154 

Walnut Roast 95 

Walnut, Banana and, Salad ... 158 

Washington Ohowder 61 

Water Bath, To Can Fruit 258 

Waterlily Salad 167 

Water Melon Preserves 266 

Wheat, Cream of 19 

Wheat, Hulled 19 

White Layer Cake 235 

White Sauce, Thin 115 

White Sauce 115 

White Sauce 115 

White Bread 25 

Whole Wheat Bread 26 

Whole Wheat Gems 42 

Togurt Buttermilk 11 

Yogurt and Jelly Sandwiches . . 46 

Yogurt Cheese Rarebit 176 

Yogurt Ice Cream 215 

Yogurt, Orange 13 

Yogurt or Buttermilk Jelly .... 171 



The Qualities of a Good Cracker 

Many persons consider one cracker like unto another 
cracker — they think a cracker is a cracker. There is, how- 
ever, a difference, the same as there is a difference in flour. 

A good cracker must have good flour, and to be truly 
wholesome it must have the best vegetable fat. To be ap- 
petizing it must be made clean, and to be palatable it 
must be crisp. Crackers may be placed in an oven to 
restore their crispness, but they lack the freshness and 
flavor which can only be found in fresh baked crackers. Get 
them fresh from the oven. Eat crackers tomorrow, baked 
today. 

Perfection AVafers are baked every day and every hour 
in the day — tomorrow you can have some of these unusual^- 
wholesome, appetizing and palatable crackers made today.. 
They will be fresh from the oven and a treat. Send thera 
30 cents and they will send you by Parcel Post a drum of 
these splendid crackers, about two pounds, they will be 
brought to your door. If you are not satisfied, you have 
but to write them and the 30 cents will be returned to you. 
You will send again when you want crackers and order 
Perfection Wafers fresh from the oven. 

Perfection Wafers are suitable and ideal for all oc- 
casions and purposes. They combine with soups, coffee, 
tea, milk, butter, cheese, jams, fruits, desserts, puddings, 
etc. Perfection. Wafers are good to eat alone. They are 
made by Perfection Biscuit Co., Fort Wayne, Ind. Write 
them today for a drum. 

Approved by the Author 



We 1 c h's 



«« 



TVie J^utiOTzai 2>irinJl 



Welch's Grape Juice is the pure, unfermented 
juice of choicest Concords. "Fruit nutrition 
in fluid form" it has aptly been called. 

Welch's is a delicious and refresh- 
ing beverage, whether served plain, 
in lemonade, or with carbonated 
water. 

Many dainty desserts and dishes 
are made with Welch's. Our book- 
let tells of some, you will think of 
others. 

Young and old enjoy Welch's, let 
the children drink it freely. It 
cannot harm. 

Try taking your olive oil in Welch's 
and see how good it makes it taste. 

Booklet of recipes free. 

Welch's is sold by leading dealers. 




TBe Welch Grape Juice Co., 



WESTFIELD, N. Y. 



Approv ed hy the Author 



THe Battle Creek Sanitarium 

endorses and recognizes the superior 
quality and purity of the 

ORIGINAL-GENUINE 



Which is for Sale at that Institution 



Why not purchase a bottle and 
take home with you ? 

Be Sure to Ask for "HORUCK'S" 



Our booklet "Beverages and Delii 
sent upon request 



Horlick's Malted Milk G)mpany 

Racine, Wisconsin 

Approved by the Author 



WINORR 

Kerneld Corn 

^^The Corn Without HuUs^ ' 

There is no food more appetizing, nour- 
ishing or more easily digested than the 
kernels or meat of fresh green corn. The 
contrary is true of the hulls, they are ab- 
solutely indigestible. 

Our process which separates the hulls 
from the kernels or meat of the corn is 
covered by patent rights and we guarantee 
the quality and purity of 

Winorr Kerneld Corn 

to be the very best food that can be pro- 
duced from fresh sugar corn. 

It is grown on fertile land surrounding 
our factory and it is hulled and packed the 
same day the ears are pulled from the stock 
which insures its freshness, flavor and purity. 

Packed exclusively bg 

The Winorr Canning Company 

CIRCLEVILLE, OHIO 

Approved by the Author 




is made from carefully selected, red-ripe 
fruit, fresh from the fields; prepared 
with exacting care and cleanliness in 
the form of fine puree, with seeds and 
skins removed, and all ready in family 
sized sanitary cans 

for Making Soups, Stews, Sauces 

and all dishes needing the addition of 
tomato flavor. 

If you cannot secure it of your grocer, write us 
and we will see that you get it. 

Acme Preserve Company 

ADRIAN, MICH. 



Approved bif the Author 



GARIS-COCHRANE 

HOUSEHOLD DISH -WASHING 
MACHINE 

MANUFACTURED AND SOLD BY THE 

Garis-Gochrane Manufacturing Go. 



DISHES THOROUGHLY WASHED BY TOUCHING A BUTTON 

Requires only 1-10 H. P. motor attached to light circuit 

Write for particulars 

Approved by the Author 



The Discerning 
Housewile ol Today 

demands much more of the products pur- 
chased lor her table than that they shall 
be pleasing to the eye and the palate. 
She seeks for greatest food value— for 
highest quality — for purity — for delicacy 
— for natural flavor. 

She endeavors to procure only such arti- 
cles of food as shall fully come up to the 
high standard of merit she has learned to 
exact. 

Riclielieu 



BRAND 



Food Products 

are prepared from the choicest materials 
obtainable in the markets of the world. 
Only the most scientific and sanitary 
methods of preserving and packing are 
employed. Every article sold under this 
brand will meet the demands of the 
most discriminating consumers. Ask your 
grocer. 

SPRAGUE, WARNER & COMPANY 

CHICAGO 



Approved by the Author 



=^ 



TheWomanofl913 

Till, without a doubt, be progressive in every degree. 
Not only in public life, but in the home as veil. 

Modern conveniences for assisting her in the house- 
hold duties will be gladly welcomed and that is why 
we feel that every woman should know 

THE A-B GAS RANGE 



White Enamel Dirt Trays, Broiler Pans, Glass Oven 
Doors, Black Enamel Bodies and Frame, Non-rustable 
Oven Linings, Sanitary Canopies; all help to make the 
A-B Gas Range as easy to clean as a China Plate. 

A.-B. STOVE COMPANY 

Battle Creek, - - - Michigan 

Approved by the Author 



"WAGNER" CAST ALUMINUM WARE 



is a qimlit)' propo- 
" Coiiducta and re- 
heal— ia absolutPly 

not affected by 
sclds. No enamel 



more than a bit a 



■■w^agn'er" 

CsBt Atuminum 



"WAGNER" 



Made by 

THE WAGNEB. MANUFACTURING CO., Sidney, Ohia 



PROTOSE, 

A 

VEGETABLE, MEAT 

Looks aniJ tastes like meat. Is really meat of the Rnest sort. 
All the good qualities of meat without tlie parasites and 

All the food values of broth and meat soups without the 
poisons of either. 

Made from the simple wholesome products of the field. 
Write for a sample and a copy of the Protose book. 

THE KELLOGG FOOD COMPANY 

Dept. T>2 Battle CreeK. 'Mich. 



Approved by the Author 



MINUTE BREW 

The most aromatic and delicious cereal beverage made. 
Prepared wholly from grain by our special process, 

NEIEIDS NO COOKING 

Long boiling is required to extract from the roasted cereals 
the soluble properties to which is due the fine aroma which 
coffee lovers desire in a breakfast cup. The long brewing 
process is a trouble to the cook whose success is more or less 
uncertain. 

ALRE.ADY BREWED 

Minute Brew is never disappointing. A teaspoonful repre- 
sents a cupful of delicious breakfast cereal which has been 
cooked or brewed by our experts till it is just right, minus only 
the water and cream. 

A cupful of boiling water and one minute will give you the 
most satisfying cup of cereal coffee you ever tasted. It's simply 
fine, 

READY IN A MINUTE 

Here's the way io do it. 

Put in coffee pot or basin, any dish will do, water sufficient 
for the number of cups to be served, and when making several 
cups, one more. When the water boils, add the Minute Brew. 
Boil one minute. Serve at once. Add cream and sugar to suit 
your taste. The flavor is incomparable, and it's perfectly 
wholesome. 

Remember, Minute Brew is prepared from all grain, abso- 
lutely nothing else. Also remember to boil one minute. 

DRINK MINUTE. BREW 

The satisfying aromatic flavor will please you. 
Packed in Canisters . 35c 

THE KELLOGG FOOD COMPANY 

Dept. J-20 Battle Creek, Michigan 



Approved by the Author 



SERVES YOUR MEALS 

Better than a Maid — Doubles Mealtime Pleasure 



jour table to hnid 
t eyerrlh ng anto 



Write for free copy and Ten Days' Trial Offer. 

HcGRAW MFG. CO. 40 Soutb St.. McGraw, N. Y. 



Approv ed by the 



Nosco Onion Salt 



The 

Universal 
Food 
Seasoning 




"Flavors 
the Food 
and Not 
the Breath" 



Perfect green onions treated scientifically for the purpose, and 
blended with fine table salt. 

Combines ECONOMY with CONVENIENCE. 

Once used, indispensable for table, chafing dish and kitchen 
use. 

ALWAYS READY FOR USE 

The onion flavor to suit the individual taste obtainable at the 
table. 

NOSCO Onion Salt added to Soups, Meats, Gravies, Fish, 
Oysters, Salads, Vegetables, Sauces, Sandwiches and Egg 
dishes gives the fresh green onion flavor. 

NOSCO Onion Salt when used in cooking, should be added 
as food is removed from fire; eliminates the unpleasant 
task of peeling onions and the disagreeable odor through- 
out the house that are attendant upon the old way of 
getting the onion flavor. 

Ask your grocer for NOSCO Onion Salt— the ONLY "Just 
Right'* kind. 

Accept no other. 

Glass shakers, table size $0. 1 5 

Glass shakers, kitchen size 50 

TBe National Onion Salt Co. 

CHICAGO, ILL. 



Approved by the Author 




In Sickness or Health 
t Home or Away from Hon 
rmos is an Everyday Nece: 

ilion oE Thermot hag been a ble^ilng to mankind. 
1 ihe sick and pleaiures to the well, lo be had in no 
liquid can he kept >reaming hot for 24 hour> without 

die only piaclical means of keeping an ever ready 
I drinking water for day or night ute in die home, 
avei babiei' lives by keeping their milk cold, clean. 

Many needleti foolilept are taved for mother or nu 
the preparation of the baby'i food, by having twi 
le Elled with cold milk and the other with hot < 
le reduce the cold milk to proper mixture by adding 
ng both milk and water to proper feeding temperahi 



Id li 






.mforl 



and aged can he kept hot or cold in Th> 

I prompt relief for the invalid and saves much w 

Every traveler, automobilist, yachUman, 
fisherman, hunter, camper and picnicer 
should provide himself with Thermos. It 
it the moat cleanly and hygienic method of 
carrying beverages and assures having tliem 
piping hot or ice-cold, wherever and when- 



Thermos 



nelhing hoi 



t cold 



-$I.CK) 
..-. 3.50 
... 2.00 up 

ON SALE AT BEST STORES 



s Bottles 

.. Carafes -. 
<> Lunch Kits 



up 



Iht word Thtrmos ii not stamped on the fcose, it's a coanttr/ti 

American Thermos Bottle Co., 



Thermoa c 
NEW YORK 



the Thames, Norwich, Conn. 
SAN FRANCISCO TORONTO 



Approved by the Autho 



Relief from constipation by the drug way means 
an inflamed and irritated intestinal tract, catarrh of 
the bowels, possibly colitis. 

Relief from constipation by the 

COLAX 

way means the removal of accumulated wastes by 
perfectly normal action, an improved condition of 
the bowel itself, no injury to a single organ, no dis- 
tress, pain or intestinal disturbance. 

Send for the Colax Book and get further facts 
about this remarkable drugless remedy. 

THE KE.LLOGG FOOD COMPANY 
Dept. U-IS Battle Creek, Michigan 



A p pro veil by the Author 



> / 



V 



»;»)ifli 



fsr 02-06 MIN I 




