Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/crowleyshygieneoOOcrowuoft 



THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 



CROWLEY'S HYGIENE 
OF SCHOOL LIFE 



C. W. HUTT, M.A.,M.D.(Cantab.), D.P.H.(Oxford) 

SOMETIME EXHIBITIONER AND SIZAR, TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE 

AUTHOR OF 

"hygiene FOR HEALTH VISITORS, SCHOOL NURSES, AND SOCIAL WORKERS" 

AND "medical NOTES FOR SCHOOL TEACHERS" 



[■Ed r- 



WITH ILLUSTRATIONS AND DIAGRAMS 



METHUEN & CO. LTD. 

36 ESSEX STREET W.C. 

LONDON 




First Published in igio 
Second Edition completely revised and re-written 
with addition of new matter igib 



TO 
THE TEACHERS AND CHILDREN 

OF 

THE CITY OF BRADFORD 

{^Dedication of First Edition) 



HUNC LIBRUM 
LIBERIS DILECTISSIMIS 

E. J. H. 
G. M. H. 
C. A. H. 
£. R. H. 
M. A. H. 

DEDICAVIT 
PATER. 
SINT FELICES ET OPERA MELIORA 
EDANT IPSI. 



PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION 

WHEN asked by the Publishers either to write a new 
book on School Hygiene, or to re-write Dr. Crowley's 
book, the choice was not far to seek. Dr. Crowley foretold so 
accurately the lines on which School Hygiene has developed 
in the last few years that the outline provided by him has 
required but little extension ; in fact, to several of the chapters 
slight alterations only were necessary. A new chapter, how- 
ever, was needed on the work of the School Medical Service 
in relation to Juvenile Employment. 

Mr. Edward Brown, the Superintendent of the Bureau of 
Physical Welfare in New York, has been instrumental in 
obtaining for me information with regard to the United States, 
whose admirable work in the sphere of medicine applied to 
Public Health has not received in this country the study it 
merits. 

I am indebted to Dr. Forbes and Mr. Gilbert Simpson for 
looking over the re-written chapters on Infectious Diseases 
and School Building respectively; several other friends and 
colleagues have afforded valuable assistance. 

C. W. HUTT 

March 191 6 



PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION 
(1909) 

THE object of this work is to discuss the means by which 
the physical and mental health of school children can, 
in existing circumstances, be best promoted, and to offer some 
practical suggestions for dealing with the problems which 
confront Local Education Authorities, medical officers, 
managers, and parents in trying to make the School Medical 
Service of this country as effective and useful as possible. 

This book was written while I was Medical Superintendent 
to the Bradford Education Authority, and the conclusions 
arrived at and the measures advocated are based on my own 
practical experience gained among the schools and school 
children of that city. The views expressed carry, it will be 
understood, no weight beyond this, and receive no added 
sanction from the fact that I now hold an official position in 
the Medical Department of the Board of Education. On 
receiving that appointment I should personally have wished to 
withdraw this book from publication, if only to prevent the 
possibility of questions arising as to inconsistency, real or 
apparent, between any views expressed in it, and any views 
or action which might in the past have been, or in the future 
might be, adopted officially by the Board of Education. The 
matter, however, had proceeded so far that this course could 
not, in fairness to the publishers, be taken. 

I must express my indebtedness to colleagues and friends 
for much help and advice. 

RALPH H. CROWLEY 



viii 



CONTENTS 



CHAP. PAGE 

I. Introduction ...... i 

Outline of history of medical inspection — Abroad — In 
England — Education (Administrative Provisions) Act, 
1907 — Memorandum of Board of Education interpreting 
the Act — Objects, character, and degree of medical 
inspection — The School Medical Service. 

II. The Physical Condition of the Child . . 16 

General considerations — Clothing — Cleanliness — 
Nutrition — Height and weight. 

III. The Physical Condition of the Child (continued) 32 

Special defects and diseases — Defective vision — Squint 
— External eye disease — Defective hearing — Adenoids — 
Ear discharge — Enlarged glands — Defective teeth. 

IV. The Physical Condition of the Child (concluded) 58 

General diseases — Acute rheumatism — Chorea — Heart 
disease — Lung disease — Bronchitis — Pulmonary tuber- 
culosis — Other forms of tuberculosis — Venereal disease 
— Rickets — Anaemia — Headache — Diseases of the skin — 
Deformities — Causes of defect and disease — Heredity 
and environment. 

V. Special Groups of School Children . . 81 

Classification of school children — ' ' Nervous " children — 
Backward children — Varieties — Causes of backwardness 
— Intermediate classes — The congenitally word-blind 
and word-deaf. 

VI. Special Groups of School Children (continued) . 93 

Mentally deficient children — Definition and classification 
— Numbers — Causation — The feeble-minded — Diagnosis 
— Treatment — Day Special School — Results — The Resi- 
dential Home and Colony — Imbecile and idiot children 
— Mental Deficiency Act, 191 3. 



THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 



VII. Special Groups of School Children (continued) . 115 

Epileptic children — Causation of epilepsy — Numbers — 
Classification — Treatment — Respective place of day and 
residential school — The blind and partially blind — 
Causation — Training the deaf and partially deaf — 
Classification — Causation — Speech defects — The 
physically defective — Crippled children — Education — 
Prevention — Imbecile and idiot children — Children with 
combined defects — After care. 

VIII. The Infant and the Infants' School . . 143 

Introductory — The lower age limit for school attend- 
ance — Physical and educational considerations — Question 
of infectious diseases — Provision required for children 
under 5 years of age — :Conditions requiring fulfilment — 
The Nursery School — Day nurseries — Schools for 
mothers. 

IX. The Treatment of School Children . .170 

Of general physical condition — Of specific ailments and 
diseases — Existing opportunities for treatment — Con- 
ditions for effective treatment — The School Clinic — 
Inspection Clinic — Close connection between inspection 
and treatment — Peculiar advantages of School Clinic — 
Equipment — Medical staff— Treatment of specific con- 
ditions — Contagious skin diseases — External eye disease 
— Provision of spectacles — Squint — Adenoids and 
enlarged tonsils — Ear discharge — Enlarged glands — 
Defective teeth — Deformities — Heart disease — Tuber- 
culosis — Rickets — Anaemia — Headache — The school 



X. The Provision of School Meals . . . 203 

Education (Provision of Meals) Acts, 1907 and 191 4 — 
Practical working — Selection of children — Place for 
provision of meal — Character of meal — Cost — Serving — 
School Medical Service and school meals — Difiiculties 
and objections. 

XI. School Baths and Bathing .... 223 

Functions of the school bath — The shower bath — The 
swimming bath — Difficulties and objections. 

XII. Physical Exercises and Games . . .231 

Introductory — Systems of physical exercise — Physical 
and educational effects — Where the lesson should be 
given — The teacher in relation to physical exercises — 
Relation of physical condition of child — Games — The 
Playground Movement in America — Organized play out 
of school hours — Dancing. 



CONTENTS 



XI 



XIII. Open-Air Education ..... 247 

Introductory — History of movement abroad and in 
England — Essentials and requirements — Site and 
surroundings — The school building — Equipment of the 
school — Size — Staffing — The school curriculum — Selec- 
tion of the children— Duration of the stay — Feeding and 
clothing— Physical exercises — Bathing arrangements — 
Results, physical and educational — Cost — Open-air 
classrooms — Playground classes — Residential Open-Air 
Recovery Schools — Camp School — School journeys. 

XIV. The School Medical Service and Juvenile 

Employment ..... 272 

Influence of employment on physical condition of 
children — Acts of Parliament — Lifting of excessive 
weights — Street-trading — Suitable employment for 
physical condition — Medical examination of employed 
school children — Limited scope of Factory Surgeon — 
Medical examination of employed children. 

XV. The School and Infectious Disease. . . 279 

General considerations — The "seed" and the ''soil" — 
Measles — Onset — Course — Complications — Method 
of spreading — Prevention. 

XVI. The School and Infectious Disease (continued) . 295 

Scarlet Fever — Onset and course — Methods of spreading 
— Effect of school attendance — Prevention. 



XVII. The School and Infectious Disease (concluded) . 

Diphtheria — Onset and course — Methods of spreading — 
Prevention — Whooping cough — Mumps — Chicken-pox 
— Other infectious diseases — Disinfection. 



307 



XVIII. The School Building 



XIX. 



XX. 



The planning of the school — Central-hall type- 
type — The Assembly Hall. 



-Pavilion 



The School Building (continued) 

Ventilation — Various methods — The pros and cons of 
mechanical ventilation — "Natural" ventilation — How 
to render efficient — Warming of the school — Different 
methods — Lighting of the classroom — Artificial lighting. 

The School Building (concluded) 

The classroom — The desk and seat — The cloakroom — 
Lavatory accommodation — Sanitary conveniences — The 
shower bath — The teachers' room — The playground. 



326 



336 



358 



xii THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

APPENDICES 

PAGE 

I. Acts of Parliament dealing with Education . . . 367 

II. Regulations, Circulars, Reports, etc., issued by the Board of 

Education, bearing on Hygiene and Education . . 369 

III. Circular (582) of the Board of Education to Local Education 

Authorities — Schedule of Medical Inspection . . 373 

IV. Extracts from Circular (596) of the Board of Education to 

Local Education Authorities under Part III. of the 
Education Act, 1902, on Certain Questions arising under 
Section Thirteen of the Education (Administrative Pro- 
visions) Act, 1907, and the Code of Regulations for 
Public Elementary Schools, 1908 . . . 379 

V. Prefatory Memorandum to the Syllabus of Physical Exercises 
issued by the Board of Education for Public Elementary 
Schools, 1909 . . . . . .387 

VI. Regulations for the Training of Teachers for Elementary 

Schools. Appendix C. 5. '* Hygiene Syllabus" . 392 

VII. Children Act, 1908. Section 122 dealing with the Cleansing 

of Verminous Children ..... 397 

VIII. Regulations under which Grants to Day Nurseries in England 
and Wales will be made by the Board of Education 
during the Year ending on 31st March, 1915 . . 399 

IX. Regulations under which Grants in respect of the Provision 
of Meals for Children attending Public Elementary 
Schools in England and Wales will be made by the 
Board of Education during the Year ending on the 31st 
March, 191 5, if Provision is made by Parliament for the 
purpose ....... 402 

X. Mental Deficiency (Notification of Children) Regulations, 

1 9 14, of the Board of Education . . . 404 

XL Tests of MM. Binet and Simon, grouped according to age, as 

modified by Dr. Goddard .... 409 

INDEX 415 



LIST OF FULL-PAGE PLATES 



FACING PAGE 

Shower Baths at a Bradford Public Elementary 
School . . . . . .224 



School Swimming Bath and Shower Bath [Bradford 
Education Authority]. .... 228 

General View of Bradford Open- Air School . 250 

View of Interior of Experimental Classrooms at 
North Wingfield Council School . . 356 






LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 

DIAGRAMS IN THE TEXT 

FIG. PAGE 

1. Showing average Increase in Height and Weight 

EACH Year of Boys and Girls . . .26 

2. Normal Sight (Emmetropia) . . . .36 

3. Long Sight (Hypermetropia) . . . .36 

4. Short Sight (Myopia) . . . . .36 

5. Showing Percentages for Comparison of the 

Vision of Country and Town Children . 40 

6. Showing the Extent of Dental Caries among 

Children at the Ages stated (Cambridge) . 54 

7. Showing Percentage of Children at the Ages 

STATED with SOUND, " SaVEABLE," AND " UN- 

saveable" Teeth (Cambridge) . . -55 

8. Plan of Ground Floor of Proposed Medical 

Department of the Education Committee, 
Sheffield . . . . . .181 

9. Plan of First Floor of Proposed Medical 

Department of the Education Committee, 
Sheffield . . . . . .183 

10. Suggested Plan for Day Open-Air School for 

150 Children . . . . .252 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS xv 

FIG. PAGB 

11. Showing average Weekly Gain or Loss in Weight 

OF Children attending Open-Air Recovery 
School at Bradford .... 263 

12. Ten Years' Weekly Deaths, Three Weeks' 

Averages, Scarlet Fever (also Measles and 
Diphtheria) ...... 299 

13. Plan of Bradford City Council Elementary 

School at Buttershaw .... 334 

14. Plan of Proposed New Elementary School at 

Ripley, Derbyshire Education Committee . 354 

15. Experimental Classrooms at North Wingfield 

Council School, Derbyshire County Council 356 

16. Section of Floor showing Arrangements for 

Warming in Floor of Experimental Class- 
rooms IN North Wingfield Council School 357 



/ 



THE HYGIENE 
OF SCHOOL LIFE 

CHAPTER I 

INTRODUCTION 

Outline of history of medical inspection — Abroad — In England 
— Education (Administrative Provisions) Act, 1907 — Memorandum 
of Board of Education interpreting the Act — Objects, character, 
and degree of medical inspection — The School Medical Service. 

MEDICAL Inspection, upon which ultimately is 
based all that relates to the hygiene of the 
school and the scholar, was, for the most part, an 
unheard and unthought-of idea until a comparatively 
few years ago. Though so lately come into prominence, 
it is no isolated nor arbitrary idea, but is the logical 
outcome of certain underlying principles which, in the 
opening century, have been determining action in various 
directions. The lack of effective relationship between 
science and practice, due to the aloofness of the one and 
the mistrust of the other, is on all sides yielding place 
to a mutual recognition of their interdependence. In 
particular, we have become more aware that effective 
action must be based on accurate knowledge and that, 
in order to realize definite specific results, precise in- 
formation must be obtained, thus leading up logically 



2 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

to the end in view. This is the root-idea of medical 
inspection. 

The centre of social responsibility has shifted from 
the adult to the child. Progress viewed from the point 
of view of the former has been halting and in many 
directions disappointing : the change of the focus to the 
child has made a vast — an almost incalculable — change 
in the outlook. Seeming impossibilities find a solution 
there, optimism replaces pessimism ; that the child is 
father to the man remains no longer a mere empty 
sentiment, but has become a fact in the recognition of 
which must be found the groundwork of future social 
action. 

This change of viewpoint, it becomes evident, is a 
very radical one. Methods of dealing with children will 
vary greatly according to the standpoint from which the 
child is viewed, whether, as has been largely the case 
in the past, chiefly from the standpoint of the adult, or 
whether attention is primarily given to its own laws of 
physical and mental development. The view that each 
child must be considered as an indivisible whole, whose 
physical, mental, and moral development can never be 
considered apart, the unfolding of whose life therefore 
must be in harmony with the teaching of physiology and 
the laws of brain development, forms the theoretical, the 
scientific call, for medical inspection. This, however, has 
not been, directly at any rate, the motive force in 
bringing about medical inspection. The motive force 
has been rather the failure, seen on all hands, of the 
methods of treatment of the child on the former lines, 
and into the history of the call from this point of view we 
must enter rather more fully. Before, however, recalling 
the steps taken in our own country, it will be useful to 
follow, though in only very brief outline, the history of 
the movement in continental and other countries. 



INTRODUCTION 3 

History of Medical Inspection Abroad 

It is scarcely possible to state when medical inspec- 
tion of schools was first inaugurated, or to determine to 
which country rightly belongs the claim of having first 
moved in this direction. 

Probably the first glimmerings of it are to be found in 
France, and that as long ago as 1842, when a govern- 
mental decree was issued in Paris dealing with the 
inspection of schools and school children, but the service 
was very immature and largely voluntary. In 1879, 
however, a definite system of school inspection was 
organized in the city of Paris, and the system at present 
in vogue dates from 1884, though re-organized in 1896. 
Some degree of medical and sanitary inspection has been 
obligatory throughout France since 1886. 

Sweden goes as far back as France, perhaps further, 
for there appear to have been medical officers in connec- 
tion with some of the schools as long ago as between 
1830 and 1840. An ordinance prescribing their duties 
was published in 1863, the inspection at that time being 
principally connected with the physical exercises, and 
physicians were appointed to determine the physical fit- 
ness of scholars to undertake the exercises and to deter- 
mine modifications necessary in individual cases. By 
1868, according to Doctor Med. Gottfried Tornell, all 
the public schools in the Kingdom had medical officers 
attached to them, and in the school codes of 1878 and 
1892 medical inspection was further defined and extended. 
The system now in force is governed by the s»chool code 
of 1905. 

Belgium was early in the field, since Brussels ap- 
pointed school physicians in 1874, and quickly followed 
these up by the appointment of specialists. The move- 
ment in Brussels soon spread to other Belgian towns. 



4 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

The first school doctor in Germany was appointed in 
1883 at Frankfurt-am-Main, and to Germany must pro- 
bably be given the credit of having first had, in full 
working order, a system of medical inspection of a 
comparatively complete type. Such was established 
in Wiesbaden by 1896, and medical inspection to-day is 
largely modelled on the plan worked out in much detail 
in that city. Between 1890 and 1900 the movement 
spread widely throughout Germany. 

Hungary was early in the field, and school physicians 
with wide functions were required to be appointed by 
law in 1887. A year later saw their appointment in 
Russia, viz. at Moscow, where the system rapidly 
developed and came to include some measure of treat- 
ment, as well as that of the inspection of children. 

Since 1890 the movement has become very general. 
Norway followed suit in 1 891, as did our own country, as 
we shall see later ; Switzerland in 1894, where at Zurich 
and elsewhere efficient systems were quickly evolved. 
The United States of America entered the field in 1894, 
medical inspection being inaugurated during that year in 
the city of Boston, chiefly, however, from the point of 
view of the prevention of infectious diseases. The 
movement has gradually spread throughout the States, 
taking root in Chicago in 1895, and in New York in 
[897. The legislature of Massachusetts was the first 
to make a system of medical inspection compulsory 
throughout a State. In 1908 outside the State of Massa- 
chusetts there were some seventy cities with some form 
of medical inspection, though it would appear that in 
many of these the system was only in a very immature 
condition.* 

Mention may be made further of Roumania, where 

* Medical Inspection of Schools^ Luther H. Gulick, M.D., and 
Leonard P. Ayres. New York, 1908. 



INTRODUCTION 5 

medical inspection was instituted in 1899, provision 
being made throughout the country for the annual in- 
spection of the children, and for the supervision of the 
school buildings and all that concerns the health of the 
children generally. 

Medical inspection has not, however, been confined to 
Europe and America. Japan, as one would expect, 
quickly saw the advantages of it, and the following 
passage from an account of the system by F. J. Haskin, 
quoted by Gulick and Ayres in their book already 
referred to, is worth reproducing : — 

" The Japanese system of medical inspection extends 
all over the Empire, and reaches the most remote rural 
community. The Japanese Department of Education is 
able to tell how many children are in school in the 
Empire, how many are robust, medium, or weak, how 
many have defective eyesight, and what diseases are 
most frequent at different ages of school life." 

Among other countries which may be more especially 
mentioned are the Argentine Republic, where a particu- 
larly efficient and varied system appears to be in force, 
and Egypt, where, at Cairo, a school physician was 
appointed so long ago as 1882. 



History of Medical Inspection in England 

The year 1903 will always remain a memorable one 
in the annals of Medical Inspection of School Children, 
the year of the publication of the Report of the Royal 
Commission on Physical Training (Scotland). The 
statistics published in that Report, showing, as they 
did, a deplorable condition of affairs in regard to the 
physique of a large number of school children, were 
largely responsible for the appointment at the latter part 
of the same year of the Interdepartmental Committee 



6 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

on Physical Deterioration, which reported in 1904. 
These two Reports greatly stirred the public mind, and 
of the results which have followed their publication we 
shall presently speak. The need, however, for medical 
inspection had been felt in a few localities prior to this 
date, the London School Board having appointed a 
medical officer in 1891, while in the provinces Bradford 
led the way in 1893, when Dr. James Kerr was appointed 
Medical Superintendent under the then School Board. 
This action was not followed up by any other Authorities, 
except, in some degree, by Salford and Halifax in 1 898, 
until the commencement of the new century. With the 
passing of the Education Act, 1902, a considerable number 
of appointments was made, and at the time of the publica- 
tion of the Report of the Interdepartmental Committee 
on Medical Inspection and Feeding of Children attending 
Public Elementary Schools (November, 1905) medical 
officers for educational purposes had been appointed by 
six Counties, thirty-five County Boroughs, thirty-one 
Boroughs, and thirteen Urban Districts, i.e. by seventy- 
nine Authorities in all, out of a total of three hundred 
and thirty-six, in England and Wales. In the majority 
of these cases, however, the work allotted to the medical 
officer was of an extremely limited nature, amounting 
only, for instance, to the examination of children unfit 
to attend school, or to the examination of mentally 
defective children. In connection with this latter point, 
it may be noted that the Elementary Education (De- 
fective and Epileptic) Act, 1899, and to a less degree 
the Elementary Education (Blind and Deaf) Act, 1893, 
did a considerable amount indirectly to help on the 
cause of medical inspection by bringing medical men into 
contact with educational aims and methods. 

It was, however, the passing of the Education 
(Administrative Provisions) Act, in August, 1907, 



INTRODUCTION 7 

making compulsory a system of medical inspection of 
children in Public Elementary Schools by every Local 
Education Authority, which has been responsible for so 
great a change coming over the scene. In September, 
1907, on the establishment of the medical department 
of the Board of Education, Dr. (now Sir) George Newman 
was appointed Chief Medical Officer, and this action was 
followed in November of the same year by the issue 
of a Memorandum on Medical Inspection (Circular 576). 
This document served as the Board's practical interpreta- 
tion of Clause 13 (i) (^) of the Act, which ran as follows : — 

" The powers and duties of a local education authority 
under Part III. of the Education Act, 1902, shall include — 

"[(dt) Power to provide for children attending public 
elementary schools, vacation schools, vacation classes, play 
centres, etc.] 

" (b) The duty to provide for the medical inspection of 
children immediately before or at the time of or as soon as 
possible after their admission to a public elementary school, 
and on such other occasions as the Board of Education direct, 
and the power to make such arrangements as may be sanc- 
tioned by the Board of Education for attending to the health 
and physical condition of the children educated in public 
elementary schools : — 

"Provided that in any exercise of powers under this section 
the local education authority may encourage and assist the 
establishment or continuance of voluntary agencies and asso- 
ciate with itself representatives of voluntary associations for 
the purpose." 

The importance of this Memorandum, laying down 
as it did the principles upon which it was intended 
medical inspection should proceed in England, cannot 
well be over-estimated. Medical Inspection was placed 
in a broad and vigorous setting, and the unity of the life 
of the child, its home life and surroundings, its school 



8 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

life and after-life, formed the pivot around which it was 
shown that the whole subject should turn. This 
oneness of the different aspects of the child's life led to 
the emphasis laid by the Memorandum on the necessity 
for the co-ordination of all the influences brought to 
bear from the outside upon its development, and, 
accordingly, prominence was given to the fact that 
School Hygiene must be looked upon, not as a 
separate entity and organized independently of other 
branches of the public health service, but as being 
an integral part of and closely linked up to that 
service. 

As the groundwork, as the foundation upon which 
any developments in School Hygiene could be satis- 
factorily evolved, the Memorandum made it incumbent 
upon every Local Education Authority to make 
arrangements for the medical inspection of each indi- 
vidual child upon its first admission to a Public 
Elementary School, and at certain stated intervals 
during the school life. Further, in addition to ensuring 
that in this way each child should be medically 
inspected, emphasis was laid on the necessity for en- 
suring also that defects found should be remedied. 
The necessity, so clearly demonstrated, for linking up 
all the forces which, from one point of view or another, 
are brought to bear in the interests of Public Health, 
must not hide from us how, in many directions, School 
Hygiene, upon the study of which all education worthy 
of the name must be based, is a specialized branch of 
study, and calls for conditions allowing for its full 
development. For this development, however, the 
foundation already laid clearly allows. 



INTRODUCTION 9 

Objects of Medical Inspection 

Medical inspection may have two objects. First, 
it may be for statistical purposes, and of this character 
has been, as a matter of fact, much of the medical 
inspection in the past. It has been carried out largely 
in order to show what was the actual physical condi- 
tion of the child, and in order to establish facts in 
reference to the alleged defective physique of so many 
children. This has now been abundantly achieved so 
far as demonstrating the necessity for systematic 
medical inspection is concerned. Many important and 
interesting statistics still await collection, but their 
object will be of a different nature, namely, to provide 
data upon which methods of amelioration and preven- 
tion can be based. Further, statistics are needed also 
for the purposes of comparison. When the Inter- 
departmental Committee on Physical Deterioration 
endeavoured to ascertain what evidences there were of 
actual deterioration in physique or the reverse, they 
found but scant material of a reliable nature to hand. 
The system of medical inspection now in force will 
present material for forming sound judgment from 
decade to decade upon the progress of the nation from 
the point of view of the health of its children. 

But secondly, the chief objective of medical inspec- 
tion, after all, is the benefit it should bring to the 
individual child, and the perfectness and satisfactory 
character of the methods must be judged mainly from 
this standpoint. When this fundamental condition has 
been fulfilled it is time enough to consider what further 
methods may usefully and reasonably be adopted which 
have in the main a statistical end in view. It is 
necessary, however, to add that any information 
obtained for statistical purposes only will almost car- 



lo THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

tainly, sooner or later, be capable of being turned to 
practical account. 



Character and Degree of Medical 
Inspection 

The medical inspection of each individual child 
is now provided for, and that at certain periods of 
the school life, first on admission to school, and 
subsequently at the ages of 8 and 1 2 years re- 
spectively. 

The general lines upon which such examination 
should proceed were laid down in the memorandum of 
the Board of Education issued in November, 1907 
(Circular 576). The following extract will show its 
character and extent : — 

" From what has been said it will be clear that the 
fundamental principle of section 1 3 of the new Act is 
the Medical Examination and supervision not only of 
children known, or suspected, to be weakly or ailing, 
but of all children in the Elementary Schools, with a 
view to adapting and modifying the system of educa- 
tion to the needs and capacities of the child, securing 
the early detection of unsuspected defects, checking 
incipient maladies at their onset, and furnishing the 
facts which will guide education authorities in relation 
to physical and mental development during school 
life. It is evident that — although this work involves, 
(a) medical inspection of school children at regular 
intervals, {b) the oversight of the sanitation of the 
school buildings, and {c) the prevention, as far as may 
be, of the spread of infectious and contagious diseases, 
including skin disease — action in these three directions 
will be incomplete unless {d) the personal and home 
life of the child are also brought under systematic 



INTRODUCTION 1 1 

supervision. The home is the point at which health 
must be controlled ultimately. 

" The character and degree of medical inspection 
will depend on the standpoint from which the subject 
is viewed, the difficulty being, of course, to attain a due 
sense of proportion and uniformity, particularly as to 
fundamental points. Valuable to science though the 
findings of a more thorough and elaborate medical 
examination might be, it is the broad, simple necessities 
of a healthy life which must be kept in view. It 
cannot be doubted that a large proportion of the 
common diseases and physical unfitness in this country 
can be substantially diminished by effective public 
health administration, combined with the teaching of 
hygiene and a realization by teachers, parents, and 
children of its vital importance. The spread of com- 
municable disease must be checked ; children's heads 
and bodies must be kept clean ; the commoner and 
more obvious physical defects, at least, must be relieved, 
remedied, or prevented ; schoolrooms must be main- 
tained in cleanly conditions, and they must be properly 
lighted, well ventilated, and not overcrowded ; the 
training of the mental faculties must not be divorced 
from physical culture and personal hygiene. It is 
these primary requirements which must first receive 
attention." 



The School Medical Service 

The work of the School Medical Service is, th'en, it 
is clear, of an important and far-reaching character. In 
this introductory chapter we may, with advantage, con- 
sider in outline what is the scope of the work and what 
are the duties entrusted to the School Medical Service. 
The full discussion of these points will be found in 



12 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

subsequent chapters. There is, in the first place, as 
we have seen, the work which forms the basis of all the 
rest of the work, namely, the inspection of the indi- 
vidual child. All children will be examined soon after 
their admission to school, and at stated intervals 
during their school life. Such of these children as 
present any defects and disabilities necessitating treat- 
ment or conditions which need watching will need 
reinspection at such intervals and with such frequency 
as each case demands. In addition, also, to the 
periodic examinations of individual children, visits will 
be paid to the schools at intervals of two or three 
months to inquire into the school surroundings of the 
child, and to examine any children especially brought 
to the notice of the doctor by the teacher. Should 
infectious disease break out, frequent — it may be daily 
— visits will be necessitated, especially, for example, in 
the case of diphtheria. Further, and still coming under 
the head of inspection, it will be necessary to examine 
from time to time individual children who are absent 
from school, and alleged to be prevented from attend- 
ing by illness. 

The School Medical Service must be familiar with 
all the details and problems connected with the school 
building, both with the larger problems of the planning 
of schools, their ventilation, heating, and so forth, and 
with the details, such as the arrangements in the cloak- 
rooms, the colour of the walls, etc. 

But further duties, of a somewhat different character, 
will also fall upon the School Medical Service. They 
will, for instance, need to make themselves familiar 
with all the difficult problems of education, bring the 
teaching of physiology to bear on the curriculum, and 
see that so far as possible this is adapted to the needs 
of the individual child. All schools for special groups 



INTRODUCTION 13 

of school children, such as schools for mentally and 
physically defective children, of all types, including 
open-air and country schools, will come under their 
supervision. Another branch of their work will involve 
the giving of lectures on School Hygiene to the 
teachers, more particularly during their period of train- 
ing, while there will fall to their lot also, from time 
to time, the medical examination, on behalf of the 
Education Authority, of the school teachers and other 
officers, to determine their fitness or otherwise for their 
work. Many special inquiries and investigations will 
also continually suggest themselves to them, inquiries 
and investigations bearing on the actual condition of 
the child, on its relation both to its home and to its 
school surroundings, and, in addition, there is a vast 
field for study in the physio-psychological problems 
connected with the school curriculum and the education 
of the child generally. Further, the treatment of the 
child, from one and another point of view, will also 
deeply concern the School Medical Service ; what 
form and extent this should take we shall discuss at a 
later stage. 

But they have also duties in connection with the 
child before and after school age ; experience has 
shown that the child before elementary school age and 
after elementary school age requires their attention. 
The infant comes to school suffering from a physical 
defect which might have been prevented or cured : the 
child leaves school and drifts to employment unsuit- 
able to his physical condition. The extension of their 
activity to municipal secondary schools and other 
classes conducted by Local Education Authorities is 
only logical. In fine, a member of the School 
Medical Service must be, in the words of Circular 
596 issued by the Board of Education, "not merely 



14 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

a functionary charged with specific duties," but a 
" pervading influence," making himself master of 
the various problems of child development, all of 
which have their roots deep down in physiological 
law. 

It is clear that the work requires to be carried out 
by men and women of the highest professional quali- 
fications and attainments. To obtain the services of 
such persons the emolument offered must be adequate 
and the conditions of service satisfactory. 

The most satisfactory organization of the work of 
the School Medical Officer in relation to that of the 
Medical Officer of Health has perhaps yet to be 
ascertained.* While essentially a Department of the 
Public Health which can allow itself in no way to be 
looked upon as a subsidiary department, it is, never- 
theless, a department which can never know its own 
full development unless it recognizes itself as a part of 
the whole Public Health Service of the country, and 
links itself up and has an organic relation with that 
Service. 

* It may be noted that in New York City, Medical Inspection of 
school children is carried out as one of the activities of the Division 
of Child Hygiene of the Department of Heahh. The Division 
deals with all children from birth to the legal working age ; its 
work comprises : — 

" I. The control and supervision of midwives." 

" 2. The reduction of infantile mortality." 

" 3. The supervision of foundling babies boarded out in private 
houses." 

" 4. The inspection and sanitary supervision of day nurseries." 

"5. The inspection of institutions harbouring dependent 
children." 

" 6. The medical inspection and examination of school children." 

" 7. The vaccination of school children." 

" 8. The enforcement of that part of the Child Labour Law which 
relates to the issuing of employment certificates." 



INTRODUCTION 15 

To secure this unity in all matters relating to the 
Public Health, it would seem that the fermation of a 
Ministry of Public Health has become necessary, and, 
as a consequence, the organization of a Public Health 
Medical Service on the lines of the Naval, Military, 
and Indian Medical Services, due regard being paid to 
the principles of Local Government. 



CHAPTER II 

THE PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 

General considerations — Clothing — Cleanliness — Nutrition — 
Height and weight. 

THAT the physical condition of the child should 
be perfect, that all the forces which insure this 
physical perfectness should attend the child from its day 
of birth, indeed, from its prenatal days, onwards through 
infancy and the years of school life, seems clearly a 
child's incontestable right. How frequently this right 
has been unrecognized, and how great and far-reaching 
have been the evil consequences, has been of late 
increasingly apparent. The evidence of deplorable 
physique in the person of the child, and subsequently in 
that of the adult, has been there all along, but the 
condition has been looked upon as inevitable, as part of 
the natural and necessary order of things and, except in 
its grossest forms, so far as modern civilization is con- 
cerned, has attracted no particular attention. The newer 
views and outlook upon life which this opening century 
has brought, the increased development of social con- 
sciousness and of communal responsibility, together with 
the publication of the results of investigations by various 
observers, have, however, served to arouse and even to 
alarm the public. In addition, the great fact is steadily 
becoming admitted that these conditions of defective 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 17 

physique are the result of causes, complex it is true, 
but still clear cut, of causes capable of removal and 
therefore to be removed. 

The following percentages indicate approximately 
the extent of disease and physical defects requiring 
treatment among elementary school children : — 
Defects of vision, 10 per cent.; defects of hearing, 5 
per cent. ; ear disease, 3 per cent. ; marked decay of the 
teeth, 50 per cent (some decay, 80-90 per cent); 
tuberculosis, 2 per cent. ; heart disease, i per cent ; 
malnutrition, i o per cent ; ringworm, i per cent. 

The Clothing of the Child 

The condition of the clothing of the child reveals 
much. In the poorer quarters of our cities and towns, 
and more especially in the large manufacturing centres, 
the condition is a deplorable one, and this fact is 
greatly emphasized when an examination is made also 
of the underclothing. It is not merely that the cloth- 
ing is old and often insufficient, but it frequently is 
extremely dirty and necessarily offensive in proportion. 
An examination of a large number of city children by 
Dr. Crowley before medical inspection had become 
general showed that in the schools situated in the 
better-class districts nearly one-fifth of the children had 
clothing classed as " bad " or " very bad," while the 
percentage rose to over three-fifths in the schools of 
the poorer districts. The same tale was told on an 
examination of the footgear. Judging this by its power 
of keeping out wet, it was found that it could be 
classified as " good " in about three-fifths of the children 
in the better-class schools, and in about one-third of 
those in the poorest. Something like one in three of 
the children in the latter schools wore footgear of a 
2 



1 8 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

wretched description, and in no way at all answering 
the purpose for which it was worn. 



The Cleanliness of the Child 

The cleanliness of the child is another external con- 
dition of much significance. Basing an estimate on 
the examination referred to above, it seemed impossible 
to escape the conclusion that about one-quarter of the 
children in the public elementary schools of the same 
city were more or less dirty and in need of a hot 
bath. Similarly, the condition of the heads of the 
children revealed a very disagreeable state of affairs, 
a verminous condition having been found in every 
other child in some of the poorer schools. Body 
vermin are only too frequently found on the clothing 
of the children. 

Yet Medical Inspection has lessened the severity 
and extent of these objectionable conditions, and there 
is practically nothing to be seen of the appalling cases 
that were of frequent occurrence before the days of 
Medical Inspection. The children themselves are 
becoming more sensitive to the presence of the defect, 
and the esprit de corps engendered by the teachers and 
also by the children themselves is bearing good fruit. 
The great difficulty lies in the home; when the 
children have been cleaned, the other members of the 
household and the bedding, etc., are sources of 
re-infection. 

Progressive improvement, however, has occurred in 
many areas — to take Brighton, for example, whereas 
in 1908 of the schoolgirls routinely medically inspected 
one-half had live vermin or nits in their hair, in 
19 14 the proportion of such girls was only one-fifth. 
Similarly, in 19 14, only 7 per cent, of the heads of the 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 19 

boys showed signs of vermin, as opposed to 17 per 
cent, in 1908. The verminous conditions of the body 
have decreased from about 32*5 per cent, of the 
children inspected in 1908 to i8*5 per cent, in 19 14. 



The Nutrition of the Child 

Following these external conditions the next most 
striking thing about a child is the condition of its 
nutrition. An estimate of this for practical purposes 
is of considerable value, though to classify children 
according to the state of their nutrition is by no means 
an easy task. We all know when we see the well- 
nourished child, the " picture of health " ; so too we 
cannot be deceived in the miserably underfed, anaemic 
child ; but between these extremes there are all 
grades and varieties, and much care is needed in the 
drawing of inferences in any given case. When large 
numbers of children are examined, however, useful 
indications are given, and valuable comparisons can 
be established. 

There are many points which have to be taken 
note of when estimating nutrition. Good nutrition is 
not synonymous with stoutness, nor bad nutrition 
with thinness, though, at the same time, the majority 
of children who are well nourished are children also 
who are well up to the standard as regards weight, 
while the majority of children poorly nourished are 
proportionately below the standard. It is clear, how- 
ever, that a flabby, rickety child may be above the 
standard in regard to weight, and yet be, strictly 
speaking, of poor nutrition, while a muscular child of 
slender build may be below the weight standard and 
yet of good nutrition. Although the stoutness or 
thinness of a child must always be very important 



20 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

indications of the nutrition, the relation of weight to 
height gives information of a more valuable character ; 
a child above the average in weight for its height 
will probably be of satisfactory nutrition, and vice 
versa. 

But in any event these indications need to be con- 
sidered in conjunction with other factors. 

Of these, pallor is important, and in marked cases 
of a peculiar and distinctive quality. It is not the 
pallor of ordinary anaemia, but the complexion is 
muddy and sallow. Then the expression is character- 
istic ; the tendency is for the mouth to be open, the 
head slightly to droop, the eyes to be dull. The 
skin is inelastic, the hair lustreless. Mentally there 
is loss of power of concentration, with either apathy 
and dejection, or restlessness and superficial sharpness. 
These children of poor nutrition are very common in 
the heart of our large cities, presenting the above 
characteristics in various degrees. Dr. Crowley's in- 
vestigations showed that in the schools situated in 
the poorest districts of Bradford they constituted 
about one-third of the whole. Dr. Arkle's figures 
for Liverpool show a considerably higher proportion 
in similar districts.* Speaking for our large towns 
generally, it has been said that they constitute ap- 
proximately ten to fifteen per cent, of the whole 
school population. The accompanying table, com- 
piled from figures obtained in Dr. Crowley's investiga- 
tion previously referred to, shows the distribution of 
children arranged in accordance with the condition 
of their nutrition. Group A is composed of children 

* " Physical Condition of School Children." Paper read at 
North of England Educational Conference by A. S. Arkle, B.A., 
M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., and published in School Government Chronicle^ 
January, 1907. 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 21 



from better-class districts, and group B of those from 
the poorest. 





Infant School. 


Upper School. 




Group A. 


Group B, 


Group A. 


Group B. 


Good or sufficiently good 
Below normal 
Poor or very poor 


No. 

123 
81 
20 


% 

55 

36 

9 


X 

31 

35 
34 


No. 

57 


No. 
403 
149 

41 


el 

25 

7 


24 

43 
33 


No. 

183 
142 



The following table, taken from the Report of Dr. 
Arkle already referred to, shows the same point in 
a still more striking manner. Council Schools A 
represent the best-class Council School; Council 
Schools B represent a type of school where the parents 
are mostly of the labouring classes and small shop- 
keepers. Council Schools C represent schools where 
children of the poorest classes attend, the parents 
belonging to the unemployed or casual-labour sections 
of the community. 







Boys. 


Girls. 




Secondary 
Schools. 


A 


B 


C 


Secondary 
Schools. 


A 


B 


c 


Number 




366 


298 


442 


286 




32 s 


383 


213 


Good (per 


cent.) 


100 


80 


28-s 


lo'S 





91*6 


6S7 


i6'9 


Fair „ 


>> 


— 


17-8 


6o-i 


35-3 


— 


8-1 


33-9 


52-5 


Poor „ 


>> 


— 


1-3 


97 


48-6 


— 


— 


07 


28-6 


Bad „ 


>j 


~ 




07 


2-4 


— ' 


— 




1-8 



The causation of the condition is very varied ; in- 
vestigations among London school children * assign 

■^ Annual Report of the [London] County Medical Officer- 
Education, 1913, pp. 50 et seq. 



22 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

the condition in a very large extent to poverty, 
tuberculosis and illness also being prominent causes. 
The main causes at work among 885 children 
(519 boys, 366 girls) are given below, with the per- 
centage of the children affected by each cause : — 



Poverty . 


43% 


Enlarged tonsils, 




Neglect . 


6% 


adenoids, or ear 




Tuberculosis . 


^9-2% 


discharge 


9% 


Other past or recent 




Rickets . 


7% 


illness . 


16% 


Congenital weakness 




Decay of teeth caus- 




or premature birth 


5% 


ing absorption of 




Intestinal parasites . 


2% 


poison from the 




Rapid growth . 


3% 


mouth . 


12% 


Want of sufficient 








sleep . 


3% 



The homes of 30 % of the children were good. 

The homes of 27 % of the children were fair or doubtful. 

The homes of 43 % of the children were poor. 

A definite diagnosis of tuberculosis was made in 
167 children, but the disease was suspected in other 
children. 

Tuberculosis was more common among the younger 
children examined, thus of the 

Older group of children, 11 to 13 years of age; 157 % of the 
boys examined were affected, i6*6 % of the girls. 

Intermediate group, 7 to 10 years of age ; 18-3 % of the boys 
examined were affected, 140 % of the girls. 

Infants ; 25*2 % of the boys examined were affected, 20 % of 
the girls. 

Whether tuberculosis is the cause of malnutrition or 
malnutrition is the precursor of tuberculosis is in many 
cases impossible to determine. The assignment of 
congenital weakness or premature birth as a main 
cause was practically confined to children coming from 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 23 



^ 






2 

H 




^1 




3 

< 












s 




^ ^1^ 




Q 





■| *i ^. ^ 


t 


;z; 


^ SX . 


^ 


CO 







1 illl 


I 









H 


8 ^. ^ ^-^ 


<? 


(—1 








H ^ 




Q 








i-s ^ 1 

















U 













W3 

1 






^ e )-, 4^ 











t— 1 ^ 




H 




^ 




.J 


w 








p 






g 







s « 




;z; 


^ 




'o'O g 






CD 






^1 1 




^ 


< 






h-4 


1 


H 










^ 


U 










•i 


PQ 








-M 


•^ 













a 








J 


> 











> 


s 


c 

— 1 





"So 


gs M 


bfl 


1 


4> 

JZi 


II 1* 




C/3 




"^ ^i 









G 


c 

1 






—III 







gf' :t 




C£ 








^ 





24 • THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

good homes. Dr. Thomas considers that there is a 
great probability of such children eventually succumb- 
ing to an attack of tuberculosis ; he is of the opinion 
that malnutrition and tuberculosis are very closely 
connected, and that it may safely be said that a town 
child suffering from malnutrition, if not already the 
subject of tuberculosis, will almost inevitably fall a 
prey to the disease sooner than later if vigorous 
preventive measures suitable to the particular child 
are not applied in time. Whether this view be correct 
or not, it is obvious that a child in a pathological 
condition is either chronically ill or will present only 
slight resistance to disease of any kind ; the general 
measures to combat such a condition are the same 
whether the child be labelled by one medical man 
'* tuberculosis," or by another as suffering from 
" malnutrition." 

The r61e played by faulty home management in 
the causation of malnutrition has been clearly put 
forth by Dr. Palgrave in the scheme on page 23, which 
has been slightly modified by the reviser.* 

Height and Weight 

Height and weight form a very important indica- 
tion of the physical condition of the child : in drawing 
inferences, however, many factors have to be taken 
into account. The value of observations on these 
two conditions is twofold. They are of value when 
large numbers of children are examined, since they 
permit of one group of children under one set of con- 
ditions being contrasted with another group under a set 
of conditions quite different ; examples of such com- 

* Annual Report of the [London] County Medical Officer — 
Education, 1913,^?. 30. 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 25 

parisons will presently be given. They are of value, 
too, in the case of the individual child, and this in 
two ways. First, they allow of his condition as regards 
height and weight being brought, as to a touchstone, 
to the average height and weight of children of similar 
age and sex obtained by the making of large numbers 
of examinations as mentioned above. Great deviations 
from this standard will then lead to a careful examina- 
tion for the probable causes and an endeavour to 
ascertain if those cases are natural and unavoidable 
ones, or whether some remediable defect is pointed 
to. Secondly, such observations are of value to the 
individual child in another and more important way, 
and more especially when repeated examinations are 
made, since, apart from the value of observations of 
the absolute height and weight, and of the relation 
of these the one to the other, much importance and 
interest centres in the variations in these from time 
to time, and in the proportions which they respectively 
bear to each other. 

There is, of course, always a steady tendency to 
increase both in height and weight in the case of the 
developing child ; but this development is not regular, 
its proportion varies at different ages, and differs much 
in the two sexes as the accompanying chart shows. 
The rate varies also according to the season of the 
year. Apart, however, from these expected and more 
or less constant variations, there may be changes in 
one direction or the other which may be indicative 
of much, and which are indeed danger-signals for 
the individual which must not be ignored. Sudden 
increase in height, out of proportion to weight, is 
one of these, and has much significance from an 
educational standpoint. Similarly of much importance 
is gradual loss of weight where previously the gain 



INS. 


gAC 


fE4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 


11 


12 


13 


14 


15 


16 


LBS, 


64- 
63- 
62- 
61- 
60- 
59- 
58- 
57- 
56- 
55- 
54- 
53- 
52- 
51' 
50- 
49- 
48- 
47- 
46- 
45- 
44- 
43- 
42- 
41- 






























-120 

-115 

-110 

-105 

-100 

-95 

-90 














































































































/ 




























1^ 












































































































-«/ 




1 • 
























^ 




























// 




























y 






















































/ y 




























t / 




























y 




/ / 
























/ 


























^ / 




























/y 




























^ 






' / 


























i 






















«^ 




























-^ 






1 
























































i 1 




























f 




























t 1 




























/ / 


















/ 










1 J 


















/ , 










4- 


















/y 


























/y 








' 


1 




























t 
















/ 




























d^ 




























^^ 


























-<-^ 




















-80 
-75 
-70 
-65 










.'^ . 




















-HI 


not 


IT 




/ /' 




















1 1 


y 




























y 


/* 


























f J. 












1 
















/• 












i/ 
















/,' 












y 














/ 


/ 












f 














/ 














/ 














// 














/i 














// 












/ 


I 














// 












y 












39- 
38- 
37- 
36- 


















/ 1 














/ 














/ ' 














// 












. 
















,^/ 












y 


i 












J 


^^ 












f 


r 












^^ 














/ 


/ 












• J 














/ 


t 












_/ 














/ / 




























/ 


























/ 


J 


























/ 




























/ 




























/ 






























/ , 






















































/ 




























J 


4 


























■/■ 


















-50 
-45 
-40 












/ . 


























i 




























/ 




















-W 


EIG 


UT-i 




v' 




















:i 1 




/^ 




























/ / 




























r / 


























■ '-y 




























/ 


/ 


























/ 




























/ ' 




























^ y 


























-y 




























—y^ 


x*^ 


























>> 




























' r 


























y% 




























^y- 


























— ^ 


/ 


























30 






























■ «r 
























































AGE 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 


11 


12 


13 


14 


15 


16 





Fig. I. — Showing average increase in height and weight each year 

of Boys and Girls compiled from the Report of the 

Anthropometric Committee of the British Association for the 
Advancement of Science. (1883.) 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 27 

has been steady, or, should there not be actual loss, 
failure, at any rate, to gain in a normal way. This 
sign may be the first to be noticed, for instance, in 
incipient pulmonary tuberculosis. 

Height and weight as absolute factors are strongly 
contrasted in their significance. Thus, clearly, height 
is a much less variable quantity than weight, and 
will not be materially affected by influences acting 
over a short period of time, whether adverse or 
favourable ; weight, on the other hand, is an extremely 
sensitive indicator of change in the forces acting on 
the body. The rapid loss of weight due to a tem- 
porary illness and the very rapid gain which will 
follow the suitable feeding of an underfed child 
illustrate this. 

Thus, in drawing inferences as to physical con- 
ditions, we must take into consideration the weight, 
the height, the relation of these the one to the other, 
the relation of each to ascertained standards and the 
progressive changes which take place in each, and in 
their relation to each other. Moreover, we must 
remember that the relation of the one to the other 
must be interpreted in the light of the age of the 
child. Living under certain adverse conditions it is, 
nevertheless, possible for a child to maintain an 
almost satisfactory proportion between its weight and 
its height, and yet for both of these to be less 
than they should be ; satisfactory external conditions 
may rapidly stimulate the tardy progress of both 
of them. The conditions determining height and 
weight are very numerous, the chief factors being 
race and heredity on the one hand, and environ- 
ment on the other, the latter including prenatal in- 
fluences, food, rest, activity, fresh air, housing, and 
so forth. 



28 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

The difference between the heights and weights of rural and 
urban public elementary school boys and girls at different ages is 
as follows : * — 





Height in Inches. 


Weight in Pounds. 


Age. 


Country. 


Town. 


Country. 


Town. 




Boys. 


Girls. 


Roys. 


Girls. 


Boys. 


Girls. 


Boys. 


Girls. 


3 


36-7 


36-2 


-0-7 


-0-4 


32-92 


32-01 


-0-43 


-0.5 


4 


3«-« 


39-1 


-0-3 


-I-O 


36-24 


35-10 


-0-75 


-0-52 


5 


40-6 


40-6 


-0-2 


-0-4 


39-04 


37-96 


-0-82 


-0-66 


6 


42-8 


42-5 


-0-5 


-0.3 


42-66 


41-30 


-0-09 


-0-66 


7 


45-4 


45-1 


-0-4 


-0-4 


47-33 


45-50 


-1.02 


-0-54 


8 


47-1 


46-4 


-0-2 


-o-i 


51-37 


48-99 


-I.2I 


-o.io 


9 


49-8 


49-5 


- I-I 


-1-2 


57-01 


55-34 


-3-5 


-1. 18 


ID 


51-2 


51-3 


-1.4 


-0.3 


61-17 


59-40 


-1. 16 


-0-84 


II 


53-2 


53-4 


-0-5 


-1-3 


67-84 


66.80 


-2.89 


-2.12 


12 


55-2 


54-5 


-0.5 


+ 0-4 


73-41 


74-59 


— 1.88 


-2-31 


13 


56-1 


.S7-I 


nil 


-0-4 


77-85 


81.12 


-0.62 


-1.89 


M 


58.2 


59-0 


-0-4 


-0-4 


84-53 


88.43 


-0.63 


-1-03 



The influence exerted by different home environment consequent 
on difference of means of the parents are well brought out in the 
tables below. They refer to the difference in height and weight of 
Brighton elementary school children, Brighton secondary school 
children and public school children ; at all ages the height and 
weight of the elementary school children is less than that of the 
secondary school children which again are at most ages exceeded 
by those of the public school children. 



* The measurements relate to the examination of 587,635 chil- 
dren, the tables being compiled by Drs. Tuxford and Glegg ; the 
measurements were taken in ordinary indoor clothing and without 
boots. For further information relating to the influence of the 
various conditions mentioned above see The Medical Inspection of 
School Children^ by W. Leslie Mackenzie, M.A., M.D. (Edinburgh 
and Glasgow : William Hodge & Co., 1904), in respect to this, as 
also to many other points relating to the physical condition of 
school children. Also Health at School^ by Clement Dukes, M.D., 
B.S.(Lond.) (London : Rivingtons, 1905). 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 29 



COMPARISON OF WEIGHT OF THREE CLASSES OF 
SCHOOLBOYS 



Age . 


9- 


10. 


II. 


I.. 


13- 


14. 


Brighton Elementary School 
Children. Average weight 
in kilograms 


24-8 


260 


292 


31-9 


33-6 


38-3 


Brighton Secondary School- 
boys. Difference from Ele- 
mentary School . 


+ 3.42 


+ 5-14 


+ 27 


+ 2.5 


+ 4-5 


+ 3-6 


Public Schoolboys. Differ- 
ence from Elementary School 


— 


-J-4-6 


+ 3-9 


+ 4-5 


+ 6-6 


+ 67 



COMPARISON OF HEIGHT OF THREE CLASSES OF 
SCHOOLBOYS 



Age . 


9- 


10. 


II. 


12. 


13- 


14. 


Brighton Elementary School 
Children. Average height 
in centimetres . 


126-2 


1297 


134-4 


140-1 


143-5 


154-5 


Brighton Secondary School- 
boys. Difference from Ele- 
mentary School . 


+ 6-9 


+ 87 


+ 6-1 


+ 3-86 


+ 6.3 


4-0.3 


Public Schoolboys. Differ- 
ence from Elementary School 


— 


+ 5-9 


+ S-0 


+ 4-5 


+ 5-9 


+ 0-3 



30 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 



COMPARISON OF WEIGHT OF THREE CLASSES OF 
SCHOOLGIRLS 



Age . 


9- 


lO. 


II. 


12. 


13- 


14. 


Brighton Elementary School . 
Children. Average weight 
in kilograms 


24-8 


26.1 


28.4 


33-4 


35-3 


40-0 


Brighton Secondary School- 
girls. Difference from Ele- 
mentary School . 


+ 1-4 


+ 4-1 


+ 3-8 


+ 1.7 


+ 5-9 


+ 4-0 


Public Schoolgirls. Differ- 
ence from Elementary School 


— 


+ 5-2 


+ 7-6 


+ 57 


+ 1-1 


+ 7-8 



COMPARISON OF HEIGHT OF THREE CLASSES OF 
SCHOOLGIRLS 



Age . 


9- 


10. 


II. 


12. 


13- 


14. 


Brighton Elementary School 
Children. Average height 
in centimetres . 


126-2 


1297 


134-4 


140-1 


143-5 


154-5 


Brighton Secondary School- 
girls. Difference from Ele- 
mentary School . 


-{-0-6 


+ 7-1 


+ 9-4 


+ 1-7 


+ 4-3 


+ 5-9 


Public Schoolgirls. Differ- 
ence from Elementary School 




+ 5-6 


-t-7-7 


+ 5-4 


-f6.7 


+ 6-8 



Distinctions have also been made in the case of children 
attending public elementary schools drawn from different strata 
of society. Dr. Scott Pinchin in 191 2 conducted an inquiry 
into the physical condition of children attending good, medium, 
and poor elementary schools in the South-West of London ; a 
comparison of the heights and weights as set out below indicates 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 31 

the superiority in this respect of children living under better home 
conditions.* 

COMPARISON OF HEIGHT AND WEIGHT OF THREE SETS 
OF SCHOOL CHILDREN 





Variation from Standard Height 
(centimetres). 


Variation from Standard Weight 
(kilograms). 




Boys. 


Girls. 


Boys. 


Girls. 




8-9 
years. 


11-12 
years. 


8-9 
years. 


11-12 
years. 


8-9 
years. 


11-12 

years. 


8-9 
years. 


11-12 
years. 


Good Schools . 


+ 2.3 


-0-4 


+ 2-6 


-0-2 


-1-8 


-2.6 


-1-2 


-19 


Medium Schools 


+ 17 


+ 0-4 


+ 1-7 


-1-2 


-2.4 


-1-8 


-0-9 


-2-6 


Poor Schools . 


-06 


-4-6 


-2-1 


-3-1 


-2.7 


-3.8 


-1.7 


-3-7 



* Annual Report of the [London] County Medical Officer— Edu- 
cation, 1912, pp. 131 et seq. 



CHAPTER III 

THE PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE 
CHILD (continued) 

Special defects and diseases — Defective vision — Squint — Ex- 
ternal eye disease — Defective hearing — Adenoids — Ear discharge — 
Enlarged glands — Defective teeth. 

HAVING now obtained a general indication from 
the appearance, the nutrition, and the height 
and weight of the physical condition, we pass to the 
consideration of the more common special defects and 
diseases, and shall lay particular stress on such as have 
intimate connection with school life. Of these a con- 
sideration of defects of vision may appropriately be 
taken first. 

Defective Vision 

In estimating the frequency of defective vision it is 
important to know what is the degree of defect under 
consideration, since great discrepancies will be found in 
statements in regard to the prevalence of defective eye- 
sight among children, due to the fact that the word 
" defective " is used in a different sense by different 
observers. It is of especial importance to remember 
that slight apparent visual defects occurring among the 
older children in the Infants' School and among those in 
Standard I. may not be, strictly speaking, visual defects 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 33 

at all. The failure may be in reality a mental one, a 
failure to interpret what is seen, the confusion of the 
letters being psychical, not physical.* To form an idea of 
the prevalence of defective vision it is best to take an 
arbitrary standard which implies that all children unable 
to reach it are children who, on account of the defect, are 
unable fully to benefit from the education they receive. 
If the eyesight is tested with Snellen's Test Type, a 
reproduction of which is given on the following page, it is 
possible to measure the amount of vision defect, if any, 
which is present, and to express such defect in terms im- 
plying greater or less severity. If a normal child stands 
at a distance of 6 metres (20 feet) from the test card 
placed in a good light, it should be able to read the 
bottom line,fand should it be capable of doing so the vision 
is recorded as f ; if, however, it can only read down to the 
bottom line but one, this means that it is able to read at 
6 metres only what it ought to be able to read at 9, and 
consequently the vision is expressed as f. Similarly if the 
fifth, fourth, third, second, and first lines only can be read 
the vision is said to be x\, A, -5^, A) and ^, respectively. 
Now any child who can only read correctly the letters 
down to, and including, the fourth line from the top, i.e» 
whose vision is xV, is a child with " bad " vision. It is 
true that there are some children, especially in the upper 
standards, who can read lower than this line and yet 
have vision which must be classified as " bad," while on 
the other hand there are children in the lower standards 
who can only read yV, and yet whose vision can hardly 

* Thus Dr. Margaret Macdonald found by testing the vision of 
Infants with an E made by themselves and pasted on brown paper 
that a considerably greater proportion were able to read the f line 
of Snellen's type than when the ordinary method of testing was 
employed. Annual Report for 191 3 of London County Medical 
Officer — Part II., Education, p. 10. 
3 



34 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 



D-60 



T 



D-36 



N E 



D-24 



D E Z 

D-18 

VENT 

D-12 

L O E Z B 

D-9 

r A E Z L V 

D = 6 

Z F E V O T P 

The actual size of the type is larger than the above. 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 35 

be classified as " bad " in the sense in which we are now 
using the term. Nevertheless, for gaining a sufficiently 
accurate idea of the number of children who have 
" bad " vision, it is useful to consider such to be all 
those who are unable to read ys or larger type. In 
London, of children tested in 1904— 1905 just over 9 per 
cent, were included in this category; in Newcastle ( 1 912), 
1 7*7 per cent. In county areas the proportion is far 
less : thus, in Middlesex ( 1 9 1 2) the number with " bad " 
vision was 6*2 per cent; in West Sussex (191 2) only 
2*2 per cent. The defect is more prevalent among 
girls: thus, in the London cases quoted, about 8*1 
per cent, of the boys examined had " bad " vision as 
opposed to iO'5 per cent, of the girls; in Somerset, of 
the children referred to the ophthalmic surgeon during 
19 1 2 on account of defective vision, 58 per cent, were 
girls. 

The next main point of practical interest in connec- 
tion with vision is to distinguish between the two kinds 
of defects, that known as hypermetropia or long sight, 
and that known as myopia or short sight ; these differ 
considerably in their causation, in their age incidence, 
and in their seriousness. Both defects imply an in- 
ability on the part of the eye to bring the image of 
the object looked at to a focus on the retina. In 
the case of hypermetropia the image is focused 
behind, in the case of myopia in front of, the retina. 
Reference to Figs. 2, 3, and 4 (p. 36) will make this 
plain. 

Hypermetropia is a common defect in the case of 
younger children ; in fact, they are normally somewhat 
hypermetropic, the immature eyeball being too short 
from before backwards, so that there is always a 
tendency for a more or less blurred image to be formed 
on the retina, leading to consequences to which we shall 



36 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

have to refer in a later chapter when speaking of the 
Infants' School and Infants' work. This condition of 




Fig. 2.— Normal Sight (Emmetropia). The parallel rays AB come 
to a focus F, on the retina R. 




Fig. 3.— Long Sight (Hypermetropia). The parallel rays AB come to 
a focus beyond the retina at F, causing a blurred image on the retina 
R, R'. 




Fig. 4. — Short Sight (Myopia). The parallel rays AB come to a focus in 
front of the retina at F, causing a blurred image on the retina at R, R'. 



long-sightedness, then, is the one to which most of the 
slightly defective vision in younger children is due ; the 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 37 

more serious defects, also, are for the most part due to 
the same cause. The tendency of such cases is towards 
cure, and even without treatment the majority of the 
cases of hypermetropia improve as the eyeball de- 
velops, the sight becoming normal ; this may be true 
of some even of the more advanced cases. Others, of 
course, do not so improve, and treatment is needed for 
all children in whom there is actual difficulty in seeing 
properly or any evidence of eyestrain, congestion, or 
soreness of the eyes. 

Myopia, on the other hand, is a much more 
common defect among older children, and tends to 
progress ; it is a condition which should not remain 
untreated. 

In addition to the two forms of defective vision 
already referred to, there is the condition known as 
Astigmatism, produced by irregular curving of the 
cornea. As a result of this greater curvature in one 
meridian than another, the rays of light passing into 
the eye are bent or refracted irregularly and fail accord- 
ingly to meet at one focus. There are different kinds 
of astigmatism, according as the eye is, in 'the vertical 
and horizontal meridians respectively, emmetropic {i.e, 
where the focus is exactly on the retina), hypermetropic, 
or myopic. In what is known as mixed astigmatism^ 
there is hypermetropia in one meridian and myopia in 
the other. 

Astigmatism is a common defect, and in some cases, 
fortunately, of comparatively little consequence, in that 
no symptoms are produced by it. On the other hand, 
it may be a defect of most serious import, and is the 
condition par excellence which causes " eyestrain," with 
its accompanying headaches and poor health generally ; 
the careful and accurate correction of the error of re- 
fraction is then called for. 



38 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 



Causation of Defective Eyesight 

The causes of defective eyesight, due to errors of 
refraction, are complex, and indeed not by any means 
finally ascertained. The condition in the vast majority 
of the cases is an acquired one, though there is 
evidence that myopia, especially high degrees of 
myopia, tends to run in families. Defective eyesight 
increases in proportion as conditions exist which 
necessitate near vision ; as we have seen, there is a 
deterioration of vision among city children as compared 
with rural, in passing, that is to say, from conditions 
necessitating distant or comparatively distant vision 
only to those necessitating the continual use of the 
eye for comparatively near objects. The school is 
directly responsible for some degree of deterioration 
of vision, the main fault lying with the educational 
methods employed, more especially in the Infants* 
School. These faulty methods are demonstrated also 
in the upper departments and in the Secondary 
Schools. 

Sewing, as only too often still taught in public 
elementary schools, must be a frequent source of 
vision defect. Unless the girls hold their needlework 
at a correct distance from their eyes (i.e. not less 
that I foot away), and sit in correct attitudes, any 
abnormality in the shape of their eyes will give rise 
to trouble, especially if the lighting of the room be 
insufficient. 

The use of appropriate type for the textbooks in 
use for children of different ages is a matter of first 
importance. 

A valuable report on the influence of school-books upon eye- 
sight was published by the British Association in 191 2. 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 39 

The recommendations as to the size of type, etc., may be 
summed up in the following table : — 





Maximum 






Maximum 




Age 

of 

Child. 


No. of 


Minimum 


Minimum 

Interlinear 

Space. 


No. of 


Maximum 


Consecutive 


Height 


Lines per 


Length 


Letters in 
25 Mm. 


of Short 
Letters. 


vertical 
100 Mm. 


of 
Line. 




(i inch). 






(4 inches). 








Mm. Points. 


Mm. 




Mm. 


Under 7 


6 or 7 


3-5 10 


5-0 


12 


— 


7 to 8 


8 or 9 


2-5 7 


3-6 


16 


100 


8 to 9 


II or 12 


2-0 6 


20 


20 


93 


9 to 12 


13 


1-8 * 5 


20 


22 


93 


Over 12 


13 or 14 


1-58 i 
(tV inch) 


1-8 


24 


93 



I inch = 25-4 mm., i point = yV inch or 0*353 mm. 
The four-inch steel rule " Chesterman 410 D " is convenient for these 
measurements. 

Too little space between the lines causes fatigue during reading, 
as it involves difficulty in passing from the end of a line to the be- 
ginning of the next line. 

Too long a line causes fatigue ; very short lines require too 
frequent a change of direction in the movements of the eye. 

The blacker the ink used the better. 

Dr. Kerr ■'*■ considers that for school purposes-the report may be 
followed, with the exception that no school child should read type 
smaller than that recommended for children from 9 to 12 years of 
age ; he calls attention to the large proportion of children whose 
astigmatism begins to make itself manifest about the age of 12 
years. 

As we shall see, too, later, injury to the eyesight is 
but an outward sign, and by no means always the 
most important one, of much associated evil necessarily 
bound up with faulty methods of education. Condi- 
tions which produce eyestrain tend to produce strain 
and stress in other directions, and, though not infre- 
quently overlooked, the results may be of much more 

* See p. 206, Annual Report of the London County Council, 
1912. 



40 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

moment than the production merely of physical 
change in the structure of the eyeball. 



Per 

cenuee 



NORMAL VISION. 
Both Eyes 



Boys 



Girls. 



Children. 



SUBNORMAL VISION. 
Both Etes. 



Boys. Girls. Children. 




Percentsge of 

Subnornial 

Children wbooo 

Vielon with both 

c;e( amounts to 

i of normal. 



Childira. 



Fig. 5. — Showing percentages for comparison of country (|||) and 
town (111) children. From a paper by Dr. J. P. Williams-Freeman. 
(Wm. Hobbs & Sons, Southampton, 1904.) 

All other causes of defective eyesight are really 
subsidiary to this main one, z.e. to the fostering of 
educational methods which postulate near and strained 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 41 

vision. Among the more important other causes are 
(i) lack of sufficient light, either natural or artificial; 
(2) light falling from the wrong direction and cross 
lights ; (3) a continual strong light in front of the eyes 
— such a condition as exists where a class faces a 
window or strong artificial lights intervene between the 
class and the blackboard ; (4) faulty position of the pupil 
in relation to the blackboard, a condition which may 
exist in a room much wider than it is deep, necessi- 
tating the viewing of the blackboard from the side ; 
(5) faulty illumination of the blackboard, producing 
a shiny surface in parts ; (6) faulty desks and seats, 
leading of necessity to bad postures, to bending of 
the head and consequent tendency to congestion ; and 
(7) the condition of the child's general health. It 
must be remembered, too, that many of the causes, 
especially among the older children, obtain in great 
force at home, where not infrequently children do 
their lessons, read, write, and sew under extremely 
bad hygienic conditions, and thus prevention at school 
is not of itself sufficient. 



Squint 

Squint * {strabismus) is a common defect among 
school children. Normally the two eyes work together, 
with the result that the impression is conveyed to the 
brain by means of the two retinas respectively, that 
the eyes are looking at one and the same object or 
sets of objects. A squint is evidence of failure of the 
eyes to work together. 

Usually it is not until the end of the first year of 
life that the child's eyes are able to make a consider- 

* See Squint, Claud Worth, F.R.C.S., fourth edition (Messrs. 
John Bale, Sons, & Danielson, Ltd.). 



42 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

able effort to produce this result; at the end of the 
sixth year the aim has been achieved or lost. 

The position of the eyes is maintained by the 
balanced action of the external eye muscles ; this 
balance is controlled by a centre in the brain acting 
on the muscles through the nerves. 

When the eyes are of different shape the balance 
may be maintained in some cases easily, in others 
with considerable difficulty; an illness may disturb 
the balance temporarily or permanently. Thus we 
frequently find squint associated with hypermetropia, 
especially when the hypermetropia in the two eyes 
is different in degree — in other words, when the eyes 
are of different shape. In such cases it is far less 
strain to use one eye when looking at near objects 
than to use both together ; the centre in the brain 
gives up the struggle and a squint results. Through 
lack of use the squinting eye often becomes partially 
blind, and sometimes the sight is lost to such an 
extent that the eye is useless. To prevent this, treat- 
ment as soon as possible after the onset of the squint 
is urgently required. 

External Eye Disease 

In addition to the vision defects which have been 
dealt with there are a large number of diseases to 
which the eye is subject, some of them local diseases, 
and others a part only of general constitutional disease. 
Of many of these we shall not need to treat. Some, 
however, of the more common external diseases will 
require mention. These fall into two groups, those 
affecting the eyelids, and those affecting the external 
parts of the eyeball itself, principally the cornea and 
conjunctiva. 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 43 

Blepharitisy or " sore eyes," a chronic inflammatory 
condition of the margins of the eyelids, is common 
among school children, more especially among the poorer 
ones, though by no means confined to them. It is, 
however, a condition which is usually due to neglect, 
to want of treatment in the earlier stages. Measles 
is frequently responsible for starting it, but given 
hygienic surroundings and cleanliness, the disease 
does not progress. The soil in which it especially 
thrives is the one found where an ill-nourished, under- 
fed child is brought up among unwholesome sur- 
roundings. Pediculosis of the eyelashes is in rare 
instances responsible. Any cause of congestion of 
the eyeball will much aggravate the condition, such 
as continuous eyestrain, and defective vision is fre- 
quently responsible for its continuance, and in some 
cases no treatment will cure the disease until the error 
of refraction has been corrected. The congestion pro- 
duced by adenoids may also be responsible for main- 
taining the condition. 

An interesting report relating to 41 children suffering from 
blepharitis is recorded by Dr. Percival J. Hay in the Sheffield 
Annual Report for 191 3 (p. 73). In many of the children the 
disease had lasted for some years ; this was ascribed to the 
absence of any treatment or the intermittent or inadequate char- 
acter of the remedial measures employed. Even when under 
treatment at the school clinic very prolonged treatment was 
necessary in the case of the 19 children eventually cured of the 
complaint ; the average duration of treatment was five months, 
one child requiring treatment for twenty months. Spectacles were 
ordered for 17 out of the 41 children. In most of the instances 
where information was available the condition was due to measles 
or scarlet fever. The fathers of the children belonged almost 
exclusively to the labouring classes. 

It must, however, be borne in mind that the term blepharitis 
includes disease of the margins of the eyelids of a comparatively slight 
character, which can be readily cured by appropriate treatment. 



44 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

Stye (i.e. inflammation of a Meibomian gland or of 
the connective tissue of the eyelid) is another common 
form of external eye disease, which, like blepharitis, 
may occur among all classes, but more commonly is 
found among children debilitated and ill-nourished ; 
like blepharitis, too, defective vision and the associated 
eyestrain may be responsible for its occurrence. 

Conjunctivitis is found in various forms ; among its 
acute varieties is included simple conjunctivitis, com- 
monly known as cold in the eye. 

A more severe form is phlyctenular conjunctivitis and 
keratitis^ in which small raised lumps are seen on the 
conjunctiva, or the corneal margin, or any part of the 
cornea, the severity of the disease being in proportion 
to the affection of the cornea. 

A very contagious form is muco-purulent conjunc- 
tivitis (ophthalmia or blight). 

Diphtheritic conjunctivitis is fortunately very rare ; 
it is a serious complaint, involving great danger of the 
destruction of the eye as an organ of sight. 

Conjunctivitis is found in more chronic forms also, 
both as angular conjunctivitis^ when the angles of the 
eyelids, especially the outer angle, are swollen and 
moist, and trachoma, a disease fortunately very rare 
among school children of British origin, but still 
common in certain Poor-Law Schools. 

All these inflammatory conditions of the conjunctiva 
are especially found among ill-nourished and debili- 
tated children, though here again defective vision and 
the associated eyestrain may play a part. 

The only other conditions with which we need 
specially concern ourselves are affections of the cornea. 
These have a very practical bearing on school life, and 
lead frequently to serious loss of vision, a loss which 
sometimes persists throughout life. 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 45 

Keratitis, most frequently of the phlyctenular type, 
occurs quite frequently, especially among debilitated 
children, and if neglected will lead to permanent 
opacities, known as corneal nebulcE. 

A recurrent form of keratitis, fortunately somewhat 
rare, occurs in which one attack is shortly afterwards 
followed by another, the child rarely being free from 
active disease. It leads to marked obscuration of the 
cornea and considerable diminution of vision. More 
severe inflammation, partaking of the nature of a 
corneal ulcer, often leads to denser opacities (leuco- 
matd). These also result from gonorrhoea! ophthalmia, 
and less often follow measles. 



Defective Hearing 

Defective hearing, though less common than defec- 
tive eyesight, forms, when it does occur, quite as 
serious a drawback to educational progress. There 
are all grades of the condition from the slightest defect, 
apparent only when definitely examined for, to com- 
plete deafness, which is nearly always of congenital 
origin, and associated necessarily with dumbness. 
Defective hearing is more often overlooked than one 
might expect, and this may happen in even the more 
severe cases. It is sometimes the unsuspected cause 
of dulness in a child, or of restlessness and lack of 
concentration of attention, and may be found, too, to 
be the underlying cause of backwardness of speech in 
young children who fail properly to reproduce sounds 
which they only imperfectly hear. 

In regard to the frequency of deafness, the whole 
percentage of children more or less deaf is probably 
about 5 per cent. 

Thus of 2881 Brighton school children 3*9 per cent. 



46 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

could not hear the forced whisper at 20 feet with 
either ear ; of them i -4 per cent, heard it at 1 5 feet, 
2 per cent, at 10 feet, 0'2 per cent, at 5 feet, and 0'5 per 
cent, could not hear the whisper at all. 

In estimating deafness the same difficulty arises as 
has been referred to in the case of the examination of 
the vision. The psychical element is an important one, 
and failure to interpret what is heard, inability to 
analyse the auditory sensations, which may, as a 
matter of fact, have been quite normally conveyed, may 
not be easy to differentiate from the physical condition 
of deafness. 

The partial deafness with which we are now deal- 
ing is practically always acquired. The presence of 
adenoid growths in the naso-pharynx is responsible for 
the majority of cases, and this condition will need 
separate attention presently. Middle-ear disease, 
usually the result of one or another of the infectious 
diseases, is another frequent cause, while obstruction, due 
to wax or some foreign body in the external auditory 
canal, accounts for a considerable further number. 

Children should be treated for the presence of deafness by the 
forced whisper test. The doctor, after taking a deep inspiration, 
whispers as loudly as he can to the child, who is placed sideways 
to him at a distance of 20 feet : an assistant should close the 
child's opposite ear with the finger. The child is asked to repeat 
numbers, words, or short phrases after the doctor ; if the child 
cannot hear at the distance of 20 feet he approaches the child 
until the numbers, etc., can be repeated promptly. Each ear is 
tested separately ; the child should not be allowed to see the lips 
of the whisperer, in order to avoid lip-reading coming into play. 

Adenoids 

From the consideration of deafness in school 
children one passes naturally to that of adenoids and 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 47 

enlarged tonsils, and to the train of symptoms to which 
these conditions give rise ; for, as we have seen, the 
connection between the presence of adenoid growths in 
the naso-pharynx and deafness is a very close one. 

The far-reaching consequences of this apparently 
trifling disease are great, and the condition is one which 
calls for more serious consideration than it usually 
receives either from parents or teachers, or indeed from 
medical practitioners. 

At the back of the nose where the nasal passages 
open into the throat is situated a small amount of 
lymphatic tissue resembling the tonsil, and which under 
certain circumstances gives rise to trouble. Whenever 
an infant or young child " catches cold," the swell- 
ing of this adenoid tissue is a necessary accompaniment 
of the swelling of the nasal mucous membrane. 
When a child is brought up in stuffy rooms and 
unduly coddled he will always be "catching cold." 
Repeated attacks of this description leave the lymphatic 
tissue in a state of chronic inflammation. A vicious 
circle is set up, the child takes cold more readily than 
ever, and eventually the adenoid growths may become 
of sufficient size to cause the characteristic symptoms of 
obstruction. 

The general picture presented is very characteristic 
— the picture of the child with the vacant face, the open 
mouth, the curiously toned voice, the history of snoring 
at night, deafness, especially when he has a cold, and 
perhaps with ear or nasal discharge. 

Adenoids, may, however, be present, and may be 
causing mischief, too, without the child presenting the 
typical picture. A very few adenoids, for instance — 
so few that hardly any signs of obstruction are present — 
may be responsible for deafness or ear discharge. 

The most obvious of the other symptoms due to 



48 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

adenoids is mouth breathing. This, it is true, may 
occur apart from actual presence of obstruction of the 
passage through the nose. The condition may have 
been set up when the child had some catarrh of the 
nasal passages, and consequently some enlargement of 
the lymphatic tissue at the back of the nose, and this 
condition may have subsided, the mouth breathing 
remaining as a habit. Nevertheless, well-marked and 
habitual mouth breathing is the most characteristic sign 
of the presence of adenoids. It is, too, a condition 
which cannot be treated lightly, for it may lead to 
serious consequences. Normally, while passing through 
the nose the air is both warmed and filtered ; when 
mouth breathing is present the air enters the lung at a 
comparatively low temperature, and tends to irritate 
the bronchial mucous membrane. Bronchitis is in this 
way favoured by mouth breathing; in such children 
recurrent attacks of bronchitis are not at all uncommon 
each winter. Further, mouth-breathing children are 
more susceptible to infectious disease ; and when they 
do develop any such disease, they are more liable to 
bronchial and pulmonary complications. Associated, 
too, with mouth breathing is the condition of dribbling, 
which is naturally most marked at night-time; the 
discharge often leaves a blood-stained mark on the 
pillow. Snoring, again, is a common and well-known 
symptom, and seldom occurs to any extent in a child 
apart from the presence of adenoids or other cause of 
nasal obstruction. 

As one would expect, nasal discharge is frequently 
present. Not only is any secretion normally present 
prevented from escaping from the back of the nose into 
the throat but there is set up a chronic catarrh of the 
mucous membrane of the nose, which shows itself by 
a continuously " running nose," leading in its turn to 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 49 

excoriation of the upper lip below the nostrils. Bleed- 
ing from the nose, too, is a not uncommon symptom. 
The effects on the ear are of much importance. 

Deafness, due to the mechanical blocking of the inner 
opening of the Eustachian tube, is present in the 
majority of cases. This tube connects the middle ear 
with the naso-pharynx ; its inner opening is exactly at 
the spot where the adenoid growths most frequently 
occur. But this blocking of the end of the Eustachian 
tube often gives rise to a chronic inflammation of the 
lining of the passage, the normal secretion of which is 
unable to escape and becomes infected with germs. 
Further, the inflammation may extend to the middle 
ear, i.e. the small cavity in the temporal bone into 
which the Eustachian tube opens, and which is shut 
off from the external auditory canal by the tympanic 
membrane. " Matter " is formed, the tympanic mem- 
brane becomes inflamed, and, perforating, the " matter " 
is discharged, producing a " running ear." To this 
condition, however, reference will be made later, as also 
to the serious consequences which may follow it. 

The speech of children with adenoids is characteristic. 
There is, as one would expect, a marked nasal intona- 
tion, but in addition to this, in younger children more 
especially, the speech is thick and indistinct, and the 
pronunciation defective, due partly no doubt to the 
partial deafness, but mainly to the defective action of 
the soft palate, and to the general catarrhal condition 
of the whole naso-pharynx, which may extend indeed 
to the larynx itself. 

The mental symptoms are interesting. In some 
children no change of any moment is noted, but, speak- 
ing generally, a child with well-marked adenoids has a 
mental condition as characteristic as its facial appear- 
ance. The children often present a curious quality of 
4 



so THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

mental dulness, associated with marked loss of power 
of concentration ; this condition of hebetude varies also 
characteristically. In part the condition is due to the 
associated deafness, but in the main it seems connected 
with interference with the functions of the frontal lobes 
of the brain : this is brought about, it has been 
suggested, by the impeding of the lymphatic circulation 
in connection with this area. It is interesting further 
to note in connection with this point how frequently 
children with adenoids complain of headache. In a 
large number of children examined by Dr. Crowley 
this symptom was present in 55 per cent.; the condi- 
tion was cured or relieved in about half of these 
children as the result of operation.* 

Not all children, however, with adenoids present this 
picture of mental dulness. Some are, apparently at 
any rate, very sharp, of a neurotic type, restless and 
jerky. Such children sleep badly, toss about in bed, 
perhaps walk in their sleep. Such a condition may be 
present quite independently of adenoids, but the con- 
ditions favouring the development of this neurotic type 
of child are those favourable also to the development 
of adenoids, and the presence of these aggravates the 
neurotic disposition. 

The presence of adenoids is responsible for other 
conditions to which, however, only passing reference 
need be made. Among such is a chronic inflammatory 
condition of the pharynx, and a glance at the throat 
will sometimes reveal the presence of adenoids at once. 
Inflammation of the conjunctiva and eyelids are some- 
times associated with adenoids, and these conditions 
will not be cured until the adenoids have first been 
dealt with. 

* "Adenoid Vegetations," Pediatrics^ vol. iii. No. 9. 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 51 

Ear Discharge 

Ear discharge or otorrhcea has been referred to in 
connection with adenoids : it is, however, a condition 
which may occur quite apart from such cause. It is 
often much neglected, and the neglect may lead to 
serious results. It occurs in about 3 to 5 per cent, of 
children of all ages. The most frequent cause of ear 
discharge is inflammation of the middle ear following 
one of the infectious diseases, especially measles or 
scarlet fever ; it is caused, too, as we have seen, by the 
presence of adenoids, and sometimes, but only rarely, 
by a child putting beads, etc., into the ear ; the disease 
is always due to germs. The discharge often smells 
more or less offensively, necessitating exclusion of the 
child from school ; this measure is also necessary when 
the discharge is excessive, lest impetigo, conjunctivitis, 
etc., arise among the other children. If ear discharge 
be treated steadily before it has produced serious 
mischief it is not usually difficult to cure. Not infre- 
quently, however, the condition is allowed to continue 
untreated or inadequately treated, and more or less 
extensive inflammation and death of the bony wall of 
the tympanic cavity results. But the mischief does 
not always stop here. The inflammation may spread 
to the interior of the bony lump behind the ear, the 
mastoid process, and give rise to a serious complication 
which, unless treated at once by operation, is often fatal. 

Meningitis, inflammation of the membrane covering 
the brain, may be set up either by the inflammation 
destroying the thin plate of bone separating the middle 
ear from the inside of the skull or by the carriage 
of germs to the meninges by the veins or lymphatic 
vessels. The meningitis may be acute and become 
general or chronic and localized. The mischief, how- 



52 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

ever, does not always stop at the meninges ; the brain 
itself may become affected and an abscess form ; again, 
the inflammation may spread to the wall of a large 
vein in this part of the skull and the germ gain access 
to the blood producing generalized blood-poisoning. 
These dangers to life caused by neglected ear discharge 
are more common than are usually supposed. 

Enlarged Glands 

Enlarged glands are very common in children ; they 
are usually the result of some local trouble. Thus the 
glands at the back of the neck may be enlarged in 
children with nits or lice in their heads ; those under the 
jaw when the teeth are decayed, and those down the side of 
the neck when enlarged tonsils or adenoids are present. 

The enlargement is of a protective nature ; the 
glands become swollen because an irritant is conveyed 
to them by the lymphatic vessels ; they serve to arrest 
the irritant and prevent its spread. For example, 
tubercle bacilli reach the glands by way of the tonsils 
or through some abrasion in the lining of the mouth, 
and not only cause enlargement, but also not unfre- 
quently lead to the formation of abscesses in them. 

Less often enlargement of most of the lymphatic 
glands of the body is found ; this is the result of a 
grave disease of the blood-forming organs. 

Defective Teeth* 

Many parents of elementary school children, even 
those who in every other way are most careful of their 

* See Diseases of Children's Teeth, R. Denison Pedley, 
F.R.C.S., L.D.S. Eng. ; Our Teeth, how Built up, how Destroyed, 
how Preserved, R. Denison Pedley, F.R.C.S., L.D.S. Eng., and 
Frank Harrison, M.R.C.S. Eng., L.D.S. Ed. 



PHYSICAT. CONDITION OF THE CHILD 53 

children's health, attach but little importance to the 
decay of their children's teeth. This is due to their 
lack of knowledge of the harmful results and of the 
possibility of preserving teeth from decay. Another 
important reason accounting for the neglect has been 
the absence of facilities until recently for dental treat- 
ment at a price within their means. 

Although toothache is a sufficiently serious trouble 
in itself, yet the secondary results of dental disease are 
even more important. These include not only local 
inflammation taking the forms of ulceration of the 
gums and dental abscess, but also illness resulting 
from the absorption of poisons from the mouth and 
the swallowing of " matter " formed around decayed 
stumps. 

Nervous debility, anaemia, and indigestion are set up 
by dental disease in children ; in older persons joint 
affections may very possibly owe their origin to dental 
disease. 

It is the universal experience of School Dentists 
when inspecting the teeth of public elementary school 
children to find very few children who present no signs 
of decay. 

The amount of decay at different ages is well shown 
by the following extract from a Report * on the in- 
spection of the teeth of school children in the Borough 
of Cambridge : — 

" The percentage of children with perfectly sound 
teeth, which in the third and fourth years stood at a little 
over 1 1 per cent, had fallen by the sixth and seventh 
years to 2, and by the tenth to the fourteenth years 
to zero. 

* Report on Dental Inspection and Treatment of School Children 
for the year October 29, 1907, to October 28, 1908, by George 
Cunningham and A. W. Gant (Cambridge, 1909). 



54 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

Similarly, if the temporary teeth be ignored, the 
percentage of children with perfectly sound permanent 



ACE^rs 6 



S 9 to 



// 



/2. /5W4 



too 



90 



80 



yo 



60 



so 



Ii-O 



30 



ZO 



10 



HUMMER ;j93 ^^q ^^q jjj- ^sY ^fS ;CrO R.h» HH'S 







r 


-'p- 














/ 


















/ 


/ 


/- 


K 












/ 


f 




\ 


y 








i 


'/ 


f 






\ 











/ 










\c 


--v' 


t 


/ 


A 








/ 


^ 




\ 


^v 


V 


\, 




J 


/ 


/ 


V 




o/ 






\ 


J 




/ 

/ 


\ 


\ 


A 


B_ 


^^ 


y 


\ 


i 


^ 




— .o 


C^' 


^ 



B 



CmiUe>>cn 



Fig. 6. 



P represents the percentage of children with permanent teeth. 
O represents the percentage of children with sound permanent 

teeth (good = no decay or loss). 
A represents the percentage of children with 1-4 permanent teeth 

carious (fair). 
B represents the percentage of children with 5-8 permanent teeth 

carious (bad). 
C represents the percentage of children with 9-19 permanent 

teeth carious (very bad). 



teeth at five years is just over 64 per cent., dropping 
at seven years to 24 per cent. It then falls more 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 55 



slowly to a little over 6 in the ninth year, and, after 
continuing almost stationary until the tenth year, 
sinks to less than 2 in the eleventh, and after this 
remains more or less stationary." 

A large proportion of the children had " very bad " 
teeth, i.e. between 9 and 1 9 decayed permanent teeth ; 

__AG£jy/iS 6 y 8 9 10 II la I5^IJ^YRS 







Fig. 7,— Teeth of Cambridge School Children. 



The clear parts indicate the percentage of sound teeth ; lightly shaded 
parts, the percentage of saveable teeth ; darkly shaded parts, the percentage 
of unsaveable teeth ; cross-shaded parts, the percentage of those who had 
received treatment. The height of the column indicates the percentage of 
children with permanent molars. 

as many as one-half of the children leaving school fell 
into this class. 

The next point of much practical importance relates 
to the degree of the destruction of the tooth, whether, 
that is to say, the tooth is " saveable " or " unsaveable," 
whether it can be filled or must be extracted. The 
facts relative to this point are shown very clearly in 
Fig. 7 taken from the Report. 



56 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

The causation of caries of the teeth is complex if 
looked at in its more ultimate aspects — from the point 
of view, for example, of heredity or of predisposing 
factors — but its immediate principal causation is the 
collection about the teeth of the putrefying remnants 
of food, and especially of fermentable carbohydrate 
material. This is present in excess when the food 
eaten consists largely of carbohydrate in a soft and 
pulpy form. 

Given this prime factor, it is true some teeth will 
succumb to this malign influence much more readily 
than others, and caries having once set in, it will 
progress much more rapidly in the case of some 
children than others. Nevertheless, if the teeth were 
kept clean through childhood and watched for the 
earliest signs of decay, dental caries would be a com- 
paratively rare disease. Nature's means of cleaning 
the teeth should not be neglected. Parents and others 
should be instructed as to the need of the food con- 
taining fibrous elements (such are present in fish, meat, 
bacon, lettuce, celery, etc.) ; also as to the importance 
of partaking of hard food (such as stale bread, hard 
biscuits, etc.), which requires a considerable amount of 
mastication, providing in its turn a copious flow of the 
cleansing saliva. 

A certain amount of evidence is forthcoming as to 
the possibility of dental caries being a contagious condi- 
tion. The experience of Mr. Jones, the School Dentist 
for Cambridge, is that when a large proportion of the 
children of an area have received adequate dental 
treatment the prevalence of decay of the teeth of the 
others becomes very much less. In the Annual Report 
on Dental Inspection and Treatment for 191 2 he 
states that the percentage of decayed teeth found in 
the school children in 191 2 is much less than that 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 57 

found in 1909, the comparative figures at the different 
ages being as follows : — 



Age of Child. 


Percentage 
1909. 


of Decayed Teeth 
1912. 


s 

6 


41*0 

• 49*4 


31-6 
40-0 


7 
8 

9 


. 55*3 
. 59*2 
. 70-6 


45-5 
447 

54 



He points out that new patients are the younger 
members of families of which the older children had 
been treated in previous years. The younger children 
live in homes and work in schools where the amount 
of oral sepsis has been very markedly lessened in the 
last five years, so that they breathe a purer atmosphere, 
especially when asleep, eat off plates and drink from 
vessels less liable to be contaminated. 



CHAPTER IV 

THE PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE 
CHILD (concluded) 

General diseases — Acute rheumatism — Chorea — Heart disease 
— Lung disease — Bronchitis — Pulmonary tuberculosis — Other forms 
of tuberculosis— Venereal disease— Rickets— Anaemia— Headache 
— Diseases of the skin — Deformities — Causes of defect and disease 
— Heredity and environment. 

LEAVING now the more specific defects and 
diseases, we may turn to the more general. 
Any detailed account of these would be unnecessary 
and out of place. Many have no special connection 
with school work ; others, however, are of considerable 
interest and importance in relation to the School 
Medical Service. 



Acute Rheumatism (Rheumatic Fever) 

This disease derives its importance from the fact 
that it is the main cause of heart disease in children. 

In a typical attack of acute rheumatism, pain, tender- 
ness, and swelling of the larger joints occur ; in a 
mild attack the only evidence of the disease may be 
crying out when the child is disturbed, combined with 
a certain amount of immobility of a limb. There is, 
however, in children, frequently no history of a definite 

attack of rheumatic fever, and the onset is not infre- 

s8 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 59 

quently insidious. Children are sometimes described 
as " out of sorts," perhaps a little feverish, with ill- 
defined pains in the limbs, but the condition is one 
of which no particular notice is taken. Chorea or St. 
Vitus' Dance, so-called growing pains, recurrent fever- 
shiness, anaemia, tonsillitis, appendicitis, may all be 
manifestations of the activity of the rheumatic poison, 
and be accompanied or followed by disease of the heart 
either affecting the covering (pericardium), walls (myo- 
cardium), or lining (endocardium). In the latter case 
characteristic " vegetations " form in the valves of the 
heart, which later lead to their puckering, with all the 
symptoms dependent on this interference with their 
function. 

Chorea (St. Vitus' Dance) 

Closely associated with acute rheumatism in children 
is the condition known as St. Vitus' Dance or chorea. 
Chorea takes many forms, varying from a general 
fidgetiness easily mistaken for simple nervousness,* to a 
form so grave that life is endangered. 

Such conditions as alteration in the temperament, 
headache, inattention, loss of memory, alteration in the 
character of the handwriting, precede the movements 
characteristic of the complaint. The condition is more 
serious than is usually allowed ; if unrecognized, and 
the child be punished for fidgetiness or for careless 
writing, much harm may be done. 

Heart Disease 

Heart disease occurs in all stages and degrees of 
seriousness, from the " functional " conditions, as they 

* See " Latent Chorea," Dr. Reginald Miller, Lancet^ December 
18, 1909. 



6o THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

are called, in which there is, for example, undue 
rapidity or slowness, or irregularity of the pulse, to the 
most severe forms of organic disease with the character- " 
istic physical signs and symptoms. The disease is 
usually an acquired one, and is nearly always rheu- 
matic in origin, but it may follow scarlet fever. 

Heart disease may be congenital, i.e. the child is 
born with some defect in the structure of the heart — 
for example, in the valves or in the walls dividing its 
cavities. There may be all degrees of defect of this 
kind, from slight defects found out only during routine 
examination to those which produce the typical charac- 
teristics and symptoms of congenital heart disease. 
Such children are stunted in growth, their extremities 
are blue, their general appearance dusky, and their 
finger ends bulbous. Congenital heart disease is fre- 
quently associated with the Mongolian type of mental 
deficiency. Congenital syphilis is responsible for a 
certain proportion of the cases. 

The acquired form of the disease, which is more 
common than the congenital, occurs probably in about 
2 per cent, of all school children. It is quite fre- 
quently unrecognized, since much damage to the heart 
may be consistent with the satisfactory performance of 
its functions, but sooner or later, and sometimes quite 
suddenly, it fails. In this way serious damage may 
unwittingly be done through expecting as much from 
a child affected with heart disease in regard to work, 
physical exercise, and play as is expected of a healthy 
child. 

ThQ prevention of heart disease is very largely the 
prevention of the spread of acute rheumatism from 
other parts of the body to the heart. We require 
earlier diagnosis of acute rheumatism ; this will only 
be achieved by the spread of knowledge among the 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 6i 

community generally as to the facts relative to the 
disease. As we have seen, growing pains, sore throat, 
tonsillitis, anaemia, or recurrent feverish attacks may 
all be signs of acute rheumatism, and should be viewed 
seriously by parents, and a medical man be consulted 
in regard to them. 

Bronchitis 

Turning now to the lungs, we find two conditions, 
bronchitis and tuberculosis, of much importance from a 
school point of view. Repeated attacks of bronchitis 
occur in some children, from babyhood onwards. The 
disease is closely associated with the unhygienic con- 
ditions under which children are often brought up, and 
these conditions may be found with much frequency 
among even children of the more well-to-do parents. 
Undue coddling of children, over-feeding, especially 
too frequent feeding, lack of fresh air and overheated 
rooms, are common causes. Exposure to cold and 
draughts, so frequently alleged as the cause, act only 
by precipitating an attack in a child made susceptible, 
by such adverse conditions, to the disease. As we 
have seen, it is frequently associated with, and indeed 
may be said to be indirectly caused by, the presence 
of adenoid growths. Frequently it has followed 
measles or whooping cough or other infectious diseases. 
Bronchitis may take several forms, from merely a 
catarrhal condition of the larger bronchi, producing but 
few symptoms other than cough, to a severe form of 
broncho-pneumonia, which may keep the child in bed 
for weeks. 

Pulmonary Tuberculosis 

Tuberculosis of the lungs in children is a disease of 
much importance and interest to the school doctor, not 



62 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

only from the point of view of the child affected, but 
as a disease which is to some extent communicable. 
Of the onset, detection, progress, and prognosis we 
have still much to learn. Of the natural history of 
the disease in children we shall learn much during the 
next few years in the course of medical inspection. 
At present our information of, and accordingly our 
views on the disease, are largely the outcome of 
hospital experience, and this is frequently and neces- 
sarily one-sided and apt to mislead. 

The extent of pulmonary tuberculosis among chil- 
dren varies greatly in different localities, but accurate 
statistics drawn from the examination of large numbers 
of children are not yet to hand for this country other 
than from comparatively limited areas. Moreover, 
the disease is by no means easy of diagnosis, and the 
bacteriological examination of the sputum is, in 
children, of but little aid for this purpose ; in cases 
where the examination would help there is practically 
no cough, or, if there is, no sputum can be obtained. 
Examination of the faeces for the presence of tubercle 
bacilli appears to offer some help. Dependence on 
physical signs alone, where they are inextensive, will 
undoubtedly easily lead one astray : the physical signs 
of early phthisis in children may be precisely those 
found in non-tuberculous conditions, and in many 
cases nothing short of carefully watching the child can 
lead to a correct diagnosis. Crepitations, for instance, 
at the apex of either lung, with slight impairment of 
note on percussion, may be found, in association with 
adenoid vegetations, and will clear up on the removal 
of these. On the other hand, it is also true that 
apical tuberculosis in an early stage, a commencing 
infection perhaps from a neighbouring gland, may give 
rise to similar slight impairment of note and crepitation. 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 63 

both of which will similarly clear up completely on 
placing the child under good hygienic conditions. 
Examination by means of X-rays and the use of in- 
jections of tuberculin afford considerable assistance in 
the diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis. 

Tuberculosis in children is no exception to the 
general rule governing tubercle elsewhere — it tends to 
become arrested. Statistics in regard to the prevalence 
of the disease, then, will depend on two conditions : 
first, on the care that is bestowed on the examination 
of the chest ; and, secondly, on the care with which 
doubtful cases are followed up. Speaking generally, 
it may be said that the extent of pulmonary tuber- 
culosis among school children has been considerably 
over-estimated. 

Dr. J. E. Squire and Dr. Annie Gowdey in 1907 
examined all the children on the rolls of the schools 
of a poor district in London. The examinations in- 
cluded all those who were thought by their parents or 
teachers to be suffering from consumption. Practically 
all the children thought to be consumptive were free 
from the disease, whilst other children not deemed 
ill were found to have the disease. Out of 1670 
unselected school children most thoroughly examined, 
47 per 1000 were found to be definitely suffering from 
pulmonary tuberculosis; 8'0 per 1000 were doubtful 
cases."^ 

A relatively small number of deaths of children 
between 5 and 1 5 years of age are ascribed to pul- 
monary tuberculosis. It is possible that either the 
children die of some intercurrent disease, such as an 
infectious disease, or else, what is probably frequently 
the case, are carried off by bronchial pneumonia, the 

* London County Council Annual Report M.O. Education, 
1907, p. 19. 



64 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

tuberculosis being unrecognized ; or else that a large 
number of the cases are very chronic or become cured. 
Time alone will demonstrate the exact truth, but it is 
clear that there is much of importance yet to learn. 
This disease, by itself almost, justifies the medical 
inspection of each individual scholar ; only so can 
many cases — and by no means early ones only — be 
detected. 



Other Forms of Tuberculosis 

Tuberculous glands are of a special interest ; those 
of the neck are most commonly affected. It is in this 
connection that the enlargement of these glands, already 
spoken of, associated with adenoids, carious teeth, etc., 
is of more importance than appears at first sight. 
The tubercle bacillus seems to prefer a tissue damaged 
or devitalized for its growth and development, and the 
glands in the neck in which the disease develops are 
probably always predisposed glands. The history of 
these glands invaded by tubercle varies greatly ; the 
development may be so slight that the discovery post- 
mortem of a small calcareous focus may be the only 
witness to the presence of tubercle in the past, a 
presence unsuspected perhaps at all during life. On 
the other hand, the gland or glands may become 
much enlarged, may suppurate, break through the 
skin, and lead to a more or less continuous dis- 
charge from the neck with subsequent characteristic 
scarring. 

Another important manifestation of tuberculosis is 
that in which the bones and joints are affected, but 
further reference will be made to this when speaking 
of crippled children. Abdominal tuberculosis, under 
the form of enlarged abdominal glands, tuberculous 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 65 

peritonitis, and ulceration of the bowel, is of special 
interest to the school doctor on account of the need for 
early diagnosis ; the disease is insidious in onset, and 
frequently has made much headway before detection. 
On the other hand, it is especially true of this form of 
tuberculosis that it tends to cure, and its early de- 
tection, a possibility made more easy owing to medical 
inspection, is especially imperative. , 



Venereal Disease 

Venereal disease includes syphilis and gonorrhoea, 
both due to micro-organisms. 

Syphilis among children is almost always of the 
congenital form and arises directly as the result of the 
disease in one or both of the parents. A considerable 
number of such children die in infancy or at an early 
age before reaching school age. The infant may be 
born dead, or be so puny and weak that it only sur- 
vives birth for a short time. 

In children apparently healthy at birth, the first 
symptoms of the disease appear during the second 
month of life. The baby " snuffles " ; a characteristic 
rash makes its appearance ; fissures and scabs form at 
the corners of the mouth, and healing but slowly leave 
radiating scars. The ends of the long bones often 
become enlarged and tender ; marked anaemia and 
wasting may set in, and the child die from the intensity 
of the poison. In children apparently cured, during 
the second and third year of life ulceration of the 
tongue and various rashes may appear ; convulsions due 
to brain disease may cause death. 

From the seventh to the fifteenth year affections of 
the eyes and deafness due to disease of the internal 
ear occur ; these may be accompanied by Hutchinsonian 
5 



66 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

teeth * and lumps in the skin (gummata) and on the 
long bones (nodes), which tend to break down and 
form abscesses. Evidence is gradually accruing that 
syphilis is the causal agent of several diseases in which 
its activity had not hitherto been recognized. Such 
diseases include congenital heart disease and pneu- 
monia, inflammation of bones and their coverings. 
Obscure joint diseases ascribed as being due to tuber- 
culosis or other causes may in many cases be due 
to syphilis, which may also be the cause of paralysis 
of obscure origin, causing crippling among school 
children. 

In London during the year 191 3 of about 200,000 
children subjected to routine inspection as "entrants," 
" leavers," or 8 to 9 years of age, 63 presented definite 
clinical evidences of congenital syphilis, i.e. i in about 
3200. In schools for the blind and deaf such children 
are more common ; thus : 

Mr. Bishop Harman, among 1 100 partially blind or 
blind children, found 343 children in whom the condi- 
tion was undoubtedly due to syphilis ; in the case of 32 
other children this cause was probably at work. 

Mr. Yearsley, examining 845 children with acquired 
deafness, found that in 61 (7*1 per cent.) the deafness 
undoubtedly arose from the effects of congenital 
syphilis. 

Gonorrhcea is rarely present in children of school age, 
although the effects on the eye of the disease present 
shortly after birth are by no means rarely seen among 
school children. In 1907 it was estimated that among 
the children (790,000) attending public elementary 
schools in London, 88 children were suffering from the 
effects of ophthalmia neonatorum : in the schools for 

* These are upper central incisors of the permanent set appearing 
about 7 years of age with a cejitral ?iofch in their cutting edge. 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 6^ 

the blind there were 92 of such children. Thus 180, 
or I child in 4400, had suffered from ophthalmia neona- 
torum of such severity that the eyes received permanent 
damage, in most cases leading to partial or complete 
blindness. As a result of his experience at hospitals, 
Mr. Bishop Harman found of cases of undoubted 
ophthalmia neonatorum treated at hospital — whether 
brought early, when the prospects are good, or late, 
when they are bad — no less than 69 per cent, escaped 
without injury to the cornea; accordingly, the 180 
school cases represented only 3 i per cent, of a group 
of children who had suffered from the disease. 



Rickets 

Of general diseases rickets is very common, 
especially in the poorer quarters of our large towns 
and cities. In the majority of cases, it is the effects of 
the disease only which are seen in school : the disease 
itself is one of early infancy. No one factor can be 
said to cause it. As in so many other diseases, pre- 
disposition plays an important part, i.e, some children 
will never develop rickets, unless under, so to speak, 
the greatest provocation, while the disease is produced 
in others when the determining causes seem to be present 
to perhaps quite insignificant extent. 

The most important of these causes is unsuitable 
food and wrong methods of feeding ; other conditions 
may aggravate the results produced by these, but it is 
doubtful whether such conditions by themselves ever 
produce the disease. Broadly speaking, unsuitable 
food may be defined as any food which, in the case of 
the infant, is allowed to replace fresh milk, and in the 
majority of the cases of rickets the child will have been 
found to have been f6d on various proprietary foods or 



68 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

some brand of tinned milk. The method of feeding, 
too, is important. Too frequent meals, and meals 
irregularly given, are additional agents in the produc- 
tion of the disease. Given, then, this prime factor, 
viz. improper food and methods of feeding, other 
adverse conditions will accentuate its effect. These 
may be summed up as unhygienic conditions generally, 
such as bad housing, stuffy rooms, and undue coddling 
of the child. 

The manifestations of the disease are many ; its 
most characteristic form is that in which the bones are 
specially attacked, producing the well-known conditions 
of knock-knee and bow-leg. A considerable degree of 
either of these deformities limits the activity of a child 
and prejudices its chances of obtaining the best avail- 
able employment after school life. Deformity in the 
shape of the chest-wall is a predisposing cause of 
tuberculosis. Bony changes, however, though so 
apparent, are not really the most important. The 
child suffers from retardation in every direction. It 
walks late, the teeth are cut late, and, when they do 
appear, are often of poor quality. The child is often 
of stunted growth. Speech is slow in developing, and 
remains imperfect up to, perhaps, 7 and 8 years of 
age, while in general mental power the rickety child may 
be one to three years behind what it should be for its 
age. These children, too, often have adenoids and 
enlarged tonsils. 

Anemia 

Another constitutional condition of much importance 
is that of Anc^mia, so extremely common among school 
children. It occurs at all ages, from the infant up- 
wards, and is due to various causes. The term is 
commonly used in connection with that form known as 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 69 

chlorosis which is found in young women ; this, however, 
is quite a distinct variety, has specific blood changes 
connected with it, and is rare in public elementary 
school children. The anaemia so widespread among 
children in cities and large towns, especially in the 
more congested parts, is directly due to the child's 
environment. Lack of food and improper food form 
an important factor, and unhygienic conditions of 
whatever sort tend to produce it, of which overcrowd- 
ing is the most important. The anaemia of the young 
child, too, is largely conditioned by the health of the 
child as an infant, especially during the first year. 
Damage is done then which it is very difficult to repair 
later — damage due principally to improper feeding. 
But while anaemia is so common among these ill-fed 
children from overcrowded homes, it is by no means 
confined to them. The condition may also be produced 
in children fed unsuitably and too frequently, who are 
coddled at home and kept in atmospheres too warm 
and stuffy. The appearance, however, of the children 
of these two classes is not the same. The anaemia of 
the former is associated with an earthy tinge of the 
skin, and other characteristic signs mentioned when 
speaking of malnutrition, while that of the latter takes 
the form simply of pallor, and the skin is often of fine 
texture. It must be remembered that children who 
are pale are not necessarily anaemic, while an anaemic 
child may sometimes present a deceptive amount of 
colour. Much depends on the texture of the skin and 
the disposition of the capillaries, and it is to the pallor 
of the mucous membranes such as the inner surface 
of the eyelids and the lips that we must look for 
evidence of anaemia. Rickets, as one would expect, 
considering the causation of the disease, is frequently 
associated with anaemia ; so, too, are enlarged tonsils 



70 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

and adenoids. Rheumatic fever is a constitutional 
disease in which anaemia is almost always present, and 
children with any rheumatic tendency — shown, for 
instance, by an attack of rheumatic fever, or growing 
pains merely, or attacks of tonsillitis or chorea — are 
usually more or less anaemic. 



Headache 

Anaemia, in whatever form it occurs, is usually what 
is known as toxic in origin, i.e. there are poisons in the 
blood influencing adversely the formation of the blood 
in regard to its various constituents, producing with the 
altered condition of the blood the symptoms associated 
with anaemia. Of these headache is an important one, 
and is more common in the anaemia of young girls than 
in that due to unsatisfactory hygienic environment. 
Headache, speaking generally, does not occur so fre- 
quently among school children as one might expect, 
though, on the other hand, there is reason to believe 
that children suffer more than is sometimes allowed, 
even by teachers. The commonest cause of headache 
among school children is indigestion ; the condition is 
quite frequently associated with adenoids, is common 
among rheumatic children and children with heart 
disease. Working under unhygienic conditions in 
school and overpressure in individual cases may readily 
cause headache, while eye-strain is a well-known factor 
in its production. 

Diseases of the Skin 

Diseases of the skin are frequently met with among 
school children, the majority being more or less con- 
tagious in character. 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 71 

Impetigo, often confused with " eczema," is the form 
most frequently seen. It occurs as " breakings out," on 
the face principally, but is also a common complication 
of the presence of lice in the head : more rarely other 
parts of the body are affected. The cracks behind the 
ear so often seen are of the same nature. The condi- 
tion is readily cured, but when neglected persists for an 
indefinite time. It is more common among unwashed 
children from overcrowded houses. 

Scabies {Itch) spreads especially among the members 
of a family or household, and the diagnosis of a doubt- 
ful case^ is sometimes determined by the fact of 
another member of the family having a similar com- 
plaint. The characteristic seat of the lesion is on the 
hands and feet, and its appearance is usually typical. 
It produces much irritation, and in a child of low 
nutrition and generally ill-cared for, there may be much 
pustular eruption of the skin, quite masking the original 
disease. 

The parasite giving rise to the disease is known as 
Acarus scabiei (Itch-mite) ; it is readily found in one 
of the characteristic little burrows running under the 
surface of the skin. The diagnosis is not always easy, 
and one not infrequently comes across cases being 
treated as eczema, and which fail to get better until 
the real cause has been ascertained and the appropriate 
treatment used. Besides being mistaken for eczema, it 
is also mistaken for Lichen urticatus, and cases of this 
complaint are wrongly labelled as scabies. A correct 
diagnosis is of much importance, both for the child's 
sake and its fellow-scholars'. 

Another verminous condition of the body is that 
resulting from the presence of Pediculus corporis vel 
vestimentorum (body-louse). Its presence is shown by 
the existence of many small haemorrhages in the skin. 



f2 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

The well-known red spot with a central puncture is 
produced by Pulex irritans (the common flea). 

Cimex lectularius (the bed-bug) is only occasionally 
found in school children. 

The presence of head-lice or nits in the hair {Pedi- 
culosis capitis) is very common. In most cases where 
they are present there are no actual sores on the scalp, 
though there may be evidence of irritation and con- 
sequent scratching. In neglected children the condition 
adds distinctly to the many other causes of their 
debilitated condition ; the glands of the neck are 
considerably swollen, and the irritation and discomfort 
associated with the irritation of the scalp cannot but 
produce a deleterious effect on the general health. In 
very neglected cases the head may become one mass of 
scabs, and the children's health suffers from the ab- 
sorption of poison. 

Of the diseases mentioned below, with the excep- 
tion of lupus, the contagious nature has not been so 
definitely established. 

A condition of the skin often called Lichen urticatus 
is common in the Infants' School and is sometimes 
very troublesome to cure. It takes the form of small 
raised papules, the irritation is considerable, and when 
the lesions due to scratching are superimposed on the 
original disease, a diagnosis of scabies or itch may quite 
readily but wrongly be made. 

In Seborrhoea irregular patches covered with brownish- 
red scales occur; often healing in the centre, they are 
converted into a ring, which is sometimes mistaken for 
ringworm. The disease affects the body and the 
scalp. 

Pityriasis alba, possibly allied to seborrhoea, is the 
cause of the scurfy patches so often seen on children's 
faces ; it is probably due to a specific germ attacking 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 73 

skins rendered susceptible by the use of common soaps 
and winds. 

Eczema presents no special features from the school 
point of view, though a practical question arises at times 
as to whether or not a child suffering from the disease 
should be in school. 

Psoriasis^ a patchy, scaly condition of the skin, and 
sometimes called eczema by teachers, is a non-infectious 
condition, and is apt to recur each year. 

LupuSy or tuberculosis of the skin, occurs principally 
on the face, though by no means confined to it. The 
chief point of interest connected with it is the need for 
early diagnosis and consequent immediate treatment. 

Ringworm is a parasitic disease caused by a fungus. 
The disease is often mistaken by parents and others 
for scurf, and neglect to obtain treatment in such cases 
is responsible for the spread in many instances. 

It is more common among boys than girls, the long 
and often thick hair of the latter forming a protection to 
the scalp. It occurs, too, quite as frequently among the 
clean children as among the more neglected; perhaps, 
indeed, with more frequency. 

Ringworm often spreads among members of the 
same family, and when a school child is affected, other 
members of the family, both those in attendance at 
school and those below school age, will often on 
examination be found to suffer from the complaint. It 
is useless to treat the school child and leave the 
younger child untreated. The characteristic sign of 
the disease is the presence of short stumpy hairs, often 
white in colour ; on microscopical examination the 
spores of the fungus can readily be detected. 

Favus, another parasitic disease of the scalp, is a 
very rare disease in this country. It is seldom seen 
outside London, and even there it is largely confined 



74 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

to the Jewish population, a good many of whom have 
brought it with them from Russia. It is comparatively 
common in Scotland. When the disease has once 
become established it is very resistant to treatment ; 
it never, like ringworm, tends to cure. 



Deformities 

Some reference is made to these in the section on 
crippled children. In this place special mention need 
be made only of lateral curvature, since it has a close 
connection with school and school work, ^vi& flat-foot, 
which among other disabilities may render a boy unfit 
for service in the Army later. 

Lateral curvature of the spine occurs principally 
among girls and especially among the older ones, and 
is found in every degree, from the very slight degree 
found only upon systematic medical inspection to the 
more severe form which may be at once apparent on look- 
ing at the pupil when in class or which may be severe 
enough to cause complaint of pain. The lateral 
curvature met with in this way in the school is as a 
rule ultimately connected, as regards its causation, with 
faulty school methods and school equipment. In 
every case, however, there is a condition predisposing 
to the development of lateral curvature. Two girls 
may be exposed to the same adverse influences, and 
one may develop lateral curvature which the other 
escapes. This predisposition is usually poor health in 
some degree, and the deformity is seldom found in 
robust and healthy girls. Unsuitable school furniture 
is immediately responsible in many instances for its 
production, and it is aggravated by unhygienic methods 
of school life, such as too long school hours and un- 
suitable arrangement of the school curriculum. Further, 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 75 

the unsatisfactory conditions under which lessons are 
often done at home aid in its production. 

Lateral curvature may occur also in quite young 
children as the result of rickets, or be secondary to 
other forms of disease, e.g. to empyaema (abscess on 
the lung), or to inequality in the length of the limbs 
or in their strength. Lateral curvature produced by the 
last-named cause is seen, for instance, associated with 
infantile palsy or with long-standing hip-joint disease. 
It is of interest, too, to note that it is intimately con- 
nected sometimes with severe forms of nasal obstruction, 
and is one of the deformities of the chest which may 
follow the presence of adenoids and enlarged tonsils. 
Such a mode of production is, however, of rare 
occurrence. 

Flat-foot is most commonly met with in the later 
years of childhood or in adolescence. The condition 
is due to relaxed ligaments and muscles and is usually 
found in weak, overgrown children. In the early stage 
of the defect the deformity is seen only when the 
child is standing; later the foot becomes fixed and 
cannot be restored to its normal position. 

Malnutrition plays an important part in the causa- 
tion of flat-foot ; supervision of children during periods 
of sudden increase in stature and weight would do 
much to reduce the frequency of the defect In some 
children the defect is due to the wearing of heavy, 
rigid boots ; while in others the fault lies more in the 
shape of the boots, which, by forcing the great toe 
towards the other toes, interferes with the due distribu- 
tion of the weight of the body.* 

^ An interesting reference to flat-foot is made in Dr. Kerr's 
Annual Report for 19 10 to the London County Council (pages 134 
and 135), where it is stated that "conditional rejections from full 
service in the German Army for flat-foot were 25 per cent., Swiss 



76 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

Causes of Defect and Disease 

In this chapter passing reference has several times 
been made to the causes, to the underlying causes in 
particular, of defects and diseases ; some further re- 
ference to these seems, however, called for. Medical 
inspection would fulfil but very imperfectly its aim if 
all that was required was felt to have been accomplished 
when defects and diseases had been pointed out, even 
though this should lead to their satisfactory treatment. 
To emphasize the underlying causes, to show clearly 
how disease may be prevented, to be the gateway to 
a healthful childhood, that is the great function of 
medical inspection. A full discussion of these under- 
lying causes is impossible in the space at our disposal, 
but they must be indicated and something of their 
relative importance pointed out. 

Heredity 

The question of heredity is met with at once. It is 
of the greatest practical importance, and much mis- 
conception still exists in regard to its place and 
power. Its influence in regard to mental and moral 
characteristics we shall have occasion to refer to later ; 
here we are concerned only with its relation to the 
physical condition and to disease. 

The general physical condition is obviously much 
influenced by heredity, and, what amounts to the 
same thing, by race, in such particulars as the build of 
the child, the height, the colour of the hair and eyes, 
the characters of the features, and so on. In some of 

33 per cent., Austrian 21-36 per cent. In Great Britain 6 per cent. 
of recruits were rejected in the past decennium, and in France 
7*5 per cent." 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 77 

these heredity holds complete sway, while in others it 
is modified in its influence by environment. No in- 
fluence of environment in certain individual instances, 
however, could ever hide the fact that the child was 
the child of its parents, even though that influence 
had much modified the effect of heredity. 

This influence of heredity in tending to determine 
the build of a child in its height and its weight is of 
practical importance when inferences come to be drawn 
from statistics on these points. Thus, where questions 
of race are involved, fallacies easily arise when com- 
paring groups of children living under different 
environments, much of the difference being possibly 
due to the difference in race of the children concerned. 
Such considerations, for example, hold especially in an 
area such as London, where two given schools, for 
instance, may consist of children widely different in 
race, the London type of English boy and girl in one, 
and Jews or Italians, it may be, preponderating in 
another. There are, too, deep-set radical differences 
in the same nation. Differences in regard to the 
physical condition due to heredity undoubtedly exist 
between, for example, the inhabitants of the West 
Riding of Yorkshire, and those of Cornwall,- or of 
Lancashire, or of London. Heredity contrasted with 
environment, however, probably plays in such in- 
stances as these considerably less part than is usually 
supposed. 

Disease is very rarely inherited. Instances where 
transmission takes place, or, at any rate, appears to 
take place, in this way, are almost of academic interest 
only. Certain rare forms of nervous disease, for 
instance, and the condition known as Haemophilia, the 
subjects of which bleed so readily and seriously on the 
least provocation as to endanger life, are definitely 



78 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

hereditary diseases, uninfluenced in their origin by- 
environment. For practical purposes, however, and 
from the point of view of the physical condition of the 
school child, heredity, used in its strict and only 
permissible sense, plays a part of minor importance. 
Heredity is a term often used loosely, and some 
conditions apparently due to it are in reality due to 
environment acting as a prenatal influence. Congenital 
syphilis, for instance, is not an inherited disease ; it is 
acquired by the child in utero. 

But though disease is not commonly or largely 
inherited, this is not true of the predisposition to 
disease. In the case of consumption and rheumatic 
fever, for example, it appears certain that there are 
families the children of which will develop these 
diseases respectively on the least provocation, so to 
speak, while similarly there are families in which these 
diseases would not develop even though considerable 
opportunity were given. The children of certain 
families, that is to say, are more vulnerable, provide 
a better soil for the bacillus in question to grow in, 
than is the case with the children of other families. 
Consequently, the prevention of such diseases consists 
in the main in careful attention being paid to the 
environment — to the environment, from the moment 
of birth, amidst which the child is brought up. The 
great practical point which emerges in any discussion 
on heredity is that the wretched physical state of so 
many of the children in the poorer quarters of our 
cities and towns is due in no important degree to this 
factor, but originates directly as the result of the 
conditions under which the children live. Similarly, 
the indefinite ill-health and " delicacy " so frequent 
among the children of the more well-to-do is also due 
to the unhygienic methods of their upbringing. 



PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE CHILD 79 

Food 

Passing, then, to environment as a cause of poor 
physical condition and disease, we can only glance at 
some of the more important factors. Of these, food 
is unquestionably the most important. The ill-effects 
— ill-effects often permanent — of insufficient or too 
much food, of unsuitable food, of too frequent feeding, 
especially in the case of the infant, can hardly be 
exaggerated : probably nine - tenths of the infant 
mortality among children born healthy is due to 
improper feeding. Further reference to this subject, 
so far as school children are concerned, will be made 
in a future chapter. 

Fresh Air 

The absence of fresh air and sunlight play the next 
most important part in the production of poor physique 
and disease. The ill-effects of overcrowded, ill- ventilated, 
insufficiently lighted rooms are quickly shown in the 
infant ; anaemia, liability to colds and bronchitis, are 
among the results in addition to the lower resistant 
power against infectious disease. Among the children 
of those more comfortably off, these ill-effects, and 
especially liability to adenoids, are frequently seen ; 
the coddling of children, so far from preventing disease, 
is prominent among the important factors producing it. 



Sleep 

Sufficient sleep is a sine qud non of healthful child- 
hood. Too little sleep is a frequent failing among 
children of all ages and social grades. The chief fault 
lies in the late hours at which children go to bed ; of 
the greater value of sleep during the earlier part of the 



8o THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

night there can be no doubt. Moreover, the conditions 
for healthful sleep are very unsatisfactory in many 
homes owing to noise and disturbance of one kind or 
another, and to surroundings unhygienic from many 
points of view, especially in respect to the foul atmos- 
phere in which many children spend their nights. But 
apart from the question of actual sleep, conditions 
allowing of quiet and peacefulness are essential to 
health during childhood from infancy upwards. 
Children are not left alone sufficiently, the tendency 
being to excite them unnecessarily, while in the Infant's 
School too much is expected of them. 

Reviewing, then, the many unsatisfactory features in 
the physical condition of the children, there is, at any 
rate, this one counterbalancing advantage, viz., that 
nearly all these defects and diseases are due to 
definitely known, and equally definitely preventable, 
causes. It remains only for the individual to be fully 
trained in the elementary principles of hygiene above 
referred to, and for the community on its part to see 
that opportunity is given to each such individual for the 
carrying of these principles into practice. 



CHAPTER V 

SPECIAL GROUPS OF SCHOOL CHILDREN 

Classification of school children — " Nervous " children — Back- 
ward children — Varieties — Causes of backwardness — Intermediate 
classes— The congenitally word-blind and word-deaf. 

IT is only of comparatively recent years that any 
serious attempt has been made to classify school 
children, and the process, from a practical point of 
view, is still in its infancy. Our elementary education 
system has concerned itself with children in mass, and 
the same methods of treatment have been meted out to 
all alike, largely irrespective of the great differences 
which obtain. In large measure, too, the same results 
have been looked for from all, and in the process a 
grave injustice has been done alike to scholar and 
teacher. The pressing need in elementary education 
to-day is the study of the individual, and, as the result 
of this, the right grouping of the children, arranging 
and modifying the methods of teaching and the curri- 
culum to suit the requirements of the group. It is, 
in fact, the introduction into our educational system of 
the scientific method. Speaking of the system gener- 
ally as applied to all children, it has largely failed 
because its foundation has been false ; it is not based 
primarily on physiological fact and law, and the de- 
velopment of the brain and nervous system has been 
6 



82 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

taken too little account of as the guiding principle of 
educational aim and method. 

Particularly is this true of those children who deviate 
from the arbitrary normal. Certain classes of children 
have, of course, long been differentiated. Such are 
the blind and deaf and the imbecile children, and efforts 
have been made, though even yet but imperfect ones 
only, to deal with such groups. Differentiation re- 
quires, however, to be carried considerably further, and 
medical inspection, and the necessary attention to each 
individual child which this implies, now renders this 
possible. The great work which lies in front of the 
educationist concerned with elementary education is to 
define these various groups, and having defined them 
to pursue the matter to its logical conclusion, and 
make appropriate provision for them. 

The disabilities from which a child may suffer may 
be physical, mental, or temperamental, or a combination 
of these defects. There are eight main groups with 
which we are concerned, viz. : — 

1. " Nervous " children. 

2. Backward children, consisting of two main 

subdivisions : — 
{a) Dull children whose backwardness is due to 

some accidental cause. 
(J?) Dull children with inherent diminished capacity 

for book-learning. 

3. Mentally defective children : — 

{a) Feeble-minded. 

(b) Imbeciles and idiots. 

4. Children with defective vision or blindness. 

5. Children with defective hearing, deafness or deaf 

mutism. 

6. Physically defective children, including cripples. 

7. Epileptic children. 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN 83 

8. Children suffering from a combination of physical 
and mental defect, e.g. the blind idiot, the 
feeble-minded deaf child. 



" Nervous " Children 

This group includes children whose nervous system 
is especially vulnerable to functional disorders, such as 
undue excitability, habit-spasm, nervous headache or 
migraine. They are very much influenced by praise 
or blame ; in later life they may become the subjects 
of various degrees of neurasthenia, hysteria, or hypo- 
chondria. Heredity plays a large part in the causation 
of this defect, but unless care be exercised the school 
curriculum will be responsible for its perpetuation and 
aggravation. 

In teaching nervous children undue pressure should 
be avoided ; subjects such as arithmetic, which presents 
special difficulties to many children, should be ap- 
proached with care. Several Education Committees 
have already permitted a rearrangement of the classes 
for the teaching of this subject ; thus a child in a 
certain standard or class might be instructed in arith- 
metic in a lower standard or class. 

A fundamental requirement is the elimination as far 
as possible of a fixed standard to which children are 
expected to conform at definite and arbitrarily fixed 
ages — in other words, promotion should be by ability, 
not by age. 

The arrangement of the curriculum is of consider- 
able importance, and the knowledge we now possess 
with regard to " fatigue " must be applied. It has 
been shown that the capacity of accomplishing mental 
work diminishes progressively for each hour of the 
day after eight o'clock in the morning. Mental 



84 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

work such as recitations and exercises in arithmetic, 
historical data and geographical facts demanding im- 
mediate or individual response, should be taken before 
midday. 

The ideal curriculum for these children is that of 
the Open-air School, where the intellectual work is based 
upon and arises out of hand-work. 

As a preventive measure, the abolition of either 
moral or material rewards for excellence in school work 
should receive attention ; " nervous " children should be 
prevented from entering into the sphere of competitive 
work. 

It is doubtful whether markedly nervous children 
should join Municipal Secondary Schools or Public Day 
Schools ; most medical officers of Public Boarding 
Schools consider these children out of place in such 
institutions. For children of nervous temperament in 
attendance at Secondary Schools excessive home-work 
is inadvisable, and detention or punishment in con- 
nection with such work should be avoided. Special 
small classes for subjects presenting difficulty to 
certain children should be formed. 



Backward Children 

These backward children may be found in all 
standards, but they are seen par excellence in the lowest 
standard of all. The spectacle presented by that 
special type of them which is so frequently seen in 
the poorer schools of our cities and towns is indeed 
deplorable. It is unjust to the child, to the teacher, and 
to the other children. The teacher finds himself or her- 
self engaged in an impossible task. Day after day the 
greatest energy and devotion may be seen put into the 
work, and a result obtained hopelessly incommensurate. 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN 85 

It is unfair, too, to the other children ; a teacher 
cannot, considering the large size of the class with 
which he has to deal, give individual attention to the 
few at the expense of the many. 

Backward children may be divided into two main 
groups, viz. those backward but intelligent, and those 
backward and dull. The backwardness in the first 
class is often due either to some physical reason, e.g. 
illness preventing school attendance, or such a defect 
as slight deafness, or to the fact that the child has 
come to school late for reasons having no relation to 
health considerations. 

Of those who are both backward and dull in the 
vast majority the condition is primarily mental, the 
defect is inborn. In some of these children, however, 
the natural condition of the child is aggravated by 
a physical defect or some other adverse influence. 

So far the detailed examination of these backward 
children has not been carried out to any large extent. 
Dr. James Kerr, in his Annual Report to the 
London County Council for 1906, publishes the 
results of an interesting inquiry carried out by Dr. A. 
H. Hogarth, in the schools of Hoxton and Haggerston. 
He took as the standard of backwardness the failure 
to pass up to the respective standard at the regular 
age, and in the schools examined he found among 
600 children, 300 boys and 300 girls, 42 per cent, of 
the former and 50 per cent, of the latter under this 
definition. The causes as ascertained by Dr. Hogarth 
are set out in the following table taken from the 
above-mentioned Report : — 



86 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 





• 


Backward 

but 
Intelligent. 


230 

Backward 
and Dull. 


600 

Total. 






B. G. 


B. 


G. 




A. 












Primary mental 


I. Amentia 


— — 


— 


— 


— 


incapacity. 


2. Mental deficiency . 

3. Natural dullness 
(infancy or present 






6 


6 


B. 

Physical defects. 


time) 


76 63 


67 


50 


256 


I. General diseases . 


7 4 


2 


4 


17 




2. Special senses 


9 II 


2 


10 


32 


y 


I •\- 2 both . 


2 I 


— 


5 


8 


C. 












Social or moral 


I. Of parents . 


I 3 


I 


2 


7 


defects. 


2. Of child 


3 4 


2 


2 


II 




I -f 2 both . 


2 I 


— 


I 


4 


D. 












Non-attendance. 


I. Ill-health . 


10 25 


5 


— 


40 




2. Intentional . 


4 3 




2 


9 




3. Change of school . 


34 20 


2 


4 


60 




I -f 2 both . 




— 


I 


I 




I + 3 both . 


2 I 


— 


— 


3 


Various combina- 


A-fB . 


8 3 


9 


4 


24 


tion of causes 


A + C . 


4 3 


6 




16 


assigned. 


A -1- D . 


9 19 


13 


8 


49 




B + C . 


I — 


2 


I 


4 




B-f-D . 


7 17 


2 


8 


34 




C + D . 


5 5 


— 


3 


13 




A + B-fD . 




2 




2 




A + C-hD . 


— I 


— 


— 


I 




B-l-C-f D . 


— I 


— 


I 


2 




Unclassified 


I — 


— 


— 


I 




Totals . 


185 185 


115 


115 


600 



Thus natural dullness seems to account for the con- 
dition of one-half of the children, physical defect and 
ill-health for over one-quarter. From the next table it 
will be seen that general delicacy, adenoids, and defective 
vision, the defects most commonly present, are roughly 
equal in extent, and account for the condition in about 
one-half of the children : — 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN 87 





Primary Cause of Backwardness 
in Srhnol. 


Contribu- 










tory or 




Nature of Physical Defect. 




1 




Partly by 


Cause 
of 


Total. 




From 


By 


Defect and 


RopViirnrrl- 






Defect. 


Absence. 


partly by 


LJtxy^r^ w til u - 

ness. 












Absence. 








B. 


G. 


B. G. 


B. G. 


B. G. 




General physical defects — 














General delicacy, anaemia, 














etc 


4 


6 


3 5 


I 10 


— 8 


37 


Rheumatism, chorea, heart 














disease .... 


2 


I 


I 3 


— — 


— I 


8 


Brain fever, meningitis, 














etc 


I 


— 


I — 


— — 


— — 


2 


Lungs or chest . 


I 


— 


3 3 


— 2 


I I 


II 


Defects of special senses — 














Adenoids. 


2 


II 





— I 


12 3 


29 


Deafness, ear discharge . 


I 


3 


— — 


— I 


4 6 


15 


Defective vision, myopia, 














etc 


8 


7 


— — 


— 2 


II ~ 


28 


General and special defects — 














Adenoids and general deli- 














cacy .... 


I 


4 


— — 


— — 


— — 


5 


Deafness and bronchitis . 


I 




— — 


— — 


— — 


I 


Myopia and general deli- 














cacy .... 


— 


I 


— — 


— — 


— — 


I 


Intercurrent absences — 














Infectious diseases . 


— 


— 


I 4 


2 — 


- 8) 




Blight, ulcers of cornea. 










[ 


30 


etc 


— 


— 


I 5 


2 3 


4 -J 




Ringworm, scabies, or sore 














heads .... 


— 


— 


2 4 


— — 


2 I 


9 


Operations, injuries . 


— 


— 


2 — 


— — 


I 2 


5 


Totals . 


21 


.33 


14 24 


5 19 


35 30 


181 



It is obvious, therefore, if we wish to do away with 
the preventable backwardness, no effort should be 
spared in the prevention of physical defects or their 
cure. To do this satisfactorily may be difficult, but as 
the necessity is recognized there will be more chance 
of the remedy indicated being applied. Thus under- 
fed and ill-fed children must be properly nourished ; 
they must be given every opportunity of living in the 



88 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

fresh air ; any actual disease must be treated, adenoids 
removed, and attention directed to the general health. 
For children retarded from some cause, but with 
capacity to profit by increased facilities for learning, 
tuition in small classes should enable them to attain 
the position in the school suitable to their age. 

The innately dull require a reduced curriculum ; 
they need to be taught on definitely concrete lines. In 
large towns there should not be much difficulty in 
supplying the needs of these children by the establish- 
ment of intermediate classes in which hand-work is 
made a feature. With a curriculum so devised as 
to coincide with the rate of progress of this class 
of child we do away with the discouraging effect 
of going over the same ground again, the only 
way of dealing with the child if left in the ordinary 
school. 

The following details relate to such a class, known 
as the Practical Class for backward boys, formed in 
Brighton in 1 9 1 0, when a special room at an ordinary 
Elementary School was fitted up partly for manual 
work and partly for ordinary school work. The class 
was formed of about thirty boys drawn from the schools 
in the neighbourhood and placed under the charge of 
an assistant master appointed especially for the class. 
The boys join the class at the age of 1 2 years, their 
average ability at that age being that of an ordinary 
boy in Standard II. 

Manual work occupies about half the time of the 
class, and is used as much as possible for instruction 
in all subjects, and especially during arithmetic, 
geography, and object lessons. A boy belonging to 
this group generally passes through his school life 
without having had an opportunity of doing manual 
work, the usual arrangements in force in Elementary 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN 



89 



Schools allowing only of such work being taught to 
boys in the upper standards. 

The following table indicates the character of the 
work taken : — 



Arithmetic .... 


Simple exercises in mental and written 
work, including practical work in money, 
length, weight, capacity, time. 

All numbers to be small. 


Reading .... 


Good, simple, continuous stories. 

One Geography and one History Reader. 

Spelling. 


Writing .... 


Copy books, simple dictation and com- 
position. 


Geography and History 


The world generally, taught by clay 
modelling, reading, and pictures. 


Singing .... 


Voice training. Simple songs. 


Object Lessons . 


Nature study of plant, animal, and insect life. 
Common things — air, water, etc. 
Hygiene, ventilation, food, etc. 
This subject experimental where possible. 


Physical Exercises and Or- 
ganized Games 


Half-hour each day. 


Drawing and Manual Work . 


Includes clay modelling and work in card- 
board, paper, and wood. 



The boys of the Practical Class join with the others 
at prayers, opening and closing of school sessions, 
Scripture, and play. 

As regards backward girls, an experiment is at 
present being made at Hanover Terrace Girls' School, 



90 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

where 2 5 of the intermediate and very backward types 
have been formed into a special class, and have re- 
ceived special instruction from the head teacher in such 
subjects as reading, writing, and practical arithmetic, 
and are distributed among other classes for training in 
domestic work, needlework, nature study, and object 
lessons. Practical lessons are given in such matters 
as the hygiene of the body. It is proposed to teach 
these children especially home management and infant 
care in as practical a way as possible. The average 
age of the children comprising the class is about 1 2 
years, and the average mental capacity that of average 
children in Standards II. to III. 

It must be confessed that the ideal is more nearly 
reached in Mannheim, where provision is made for 
more of the school life of backward children, differentia- 
tion usually being made at the end of the first year of 
their school life. Instead of the seven or eight standards 
of the ordinary German school the child is only required 
to achieve five or six. More individual attention is 
possible, as the number in the class is smaller, 35 
children being the maximum number allowed. 

The Congenitally Word-Blind and Word- 
Deaf 

This group, consisting of children showing, in one 
or another form, some variety of congenital aphasia, is 
one to which, up to the present, but little study has 
been given. The results of the observations already 
made, however, suggest that an important field remains 
to be opened up. Congenital inability to interpret 
the written or spoken word, while for all other 
purposes sight or hearing are perfect, appears to 
exist in all degrees up to a defect so marked that 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN 91 

a child may have been treated indeed as mentally 
defective. 

Congenital word-blindness is a more common defect 
.than congenital word-deafness. Dr. C. J. Thomas cal- 
culates that " one in every thousand of the children in 
our elementary schools at least show this defect." * 
The children not infrequently find their way to a 
school for mentally deficient children, and in the same 
paper Dr. Thomas remarks : ** Out of thirty cases 
examined in a centre for older mentally deficient boys 
I found that four were cases of pure word-blindness 
only." Dr. Thomas further remarks, when commenting 
upon the fact that so many cases have remained un- 
discovered : " The great frequency of the condition has 
only been brought to light by the association of school 
doctors with teachers in the schools, and illustrates the 
importance of this association and the benefit which 
is likely to accrue in the future from the applica- 
tion of physiology and medical science to educational 
problems." 

Congenital word-deafness was first described in this 
country by Dr. James Kerr.f Our knowledge of the 
condition has subsequently been considerably augmented 
by Dr. C. J. Thomas, and illustrative cases will be 
found in the paper already referred to. 

Consideration of such cases as the above suggests, 
as is manifest in so many other directions, what a field 
presents itself for accurate individual examination of 
children. The same kind of study of phenomena will 

* " The Aphasias of Childhood and Educational Hygiene," C. J. 
Thomas, M.B., B.Sc, D.P.H., London, Pud/ic Health, May 1908. 

t " Four Unusual Cases of Sensory Aphasia," James Kerr, 
M.A., M.D., London, British Medical Journal, 1900. And see 
also by the same author. Physiological Variations in Childhood 
(London : Sherratt & Hughes, 1908). 



92 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

be necessary in the moral domain as in the physical 
and intellectual. As Dr. James Kerr remarks in the 
paper already referred to : — 

" There is no doubt that in the great volume of functions whose 
nervous mechanisms are as yet practically unlocated and therefore 
unknown, in the region of the intellect, attention and self-control 
for instance, physiological variation is just as great as in the more 
tangible matters of word memories. 

" The children referred to occasionally as morally defective, or 
in some cases as moral imbeciles, are extreme cases from which 
there is a constant gradation in increasing numbers up to the law- 
abiding and social citizen. 

" The children who are word-blind or word-deaf are so in virtue 
of defects in the small areas of brain cortex which should store 
up the memories of word sounds or word images. The body of 
memories stored up, comprising the conventions which regulate 
our conduct in relation to society, make up morality, a body of 
memories probably not more complex than the body of written or 
spoken word symbols. These memories are of very late evolution. 
It is not so long since in any community the prevalent morality 
ordained death to the stranger, and the lateness of evolution of 
what we would call moral ideas is shown by the prevalence of 
much difference in all communities as to not only the finer shades, 
but even quite common principles. 

" We cannot yet locate the machinery, but if this idea of morality 
is correct one would expect localization, somewhere in the great 
silent regions, which as yet are screened from direct observation 
by the action of lower centres. 

" Want of development of these regions will give rise to exactly 
the type of individual found with word defects. Incapable of ap- 
preciating one class of memory, incapable of education or improve- 
ment in that respect, and normal in all other ways ; and a normal 
individual wanting in all moral behaviour except such as his 
emotions and appetites suggest will appear in some ways exceed- 
ingly clever. 

" Such are the children who come under observation occasionally 
as moral imbeciles — extremes, like our aphasias, extremes of 
physiological variation." 



CHAPTER VI 

SPECIAL GROUPS OF SCHOOL CHILDREN 
(continued) 

Mentally deficient children — Definition and classification — 
Numbers — Causation — The feeble-minded — Diagnosis — Treat- 
ment — Day Special School — Results — The Residential Home and 
Colony— Imbecile and idiot children — Mental Deficiency Act, 
1913. 

Mentally Deficient Children 

UNDER this heading are included feeble-minded, 
imbecile, and idiot children. Problems, and 
very practical problems too, gather thick around the 
mentally defective child.* The treatment and education 
or training of the child itself is of much educational 
interest, but beyond this, wrapt up in each of these 
children, are problems wide and deep, in which the old 
controversy as to the relative place and power of heredity 
and environment is being continually revived, and 
which have also intimate connection with other social 
problems. 

The definition of the three leading degrees of 

* For valuable information regarding this class of child, see 

Mentally Deficient Children^ G. E. Shuttleworth, B.A., M.D., and 

W. A. Potts, B.A., M.D. (London : H. K. Lewis) ; Mental 

Deficiency, A. F. Tredgold, L.R.C.P. (Lond.), M.R.C.S. (Eng.) 

(London: Bailliere, Tindall, & Cox, 1914) ; Feeble-Mindedness : 

Its Causes and Consequences, H. H. Goddard, Ph.D. (New York : 

The Macmillan Co., 1914). 

93 



94 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

mental deficiency given in the Mental Deficiency Act, 
191 3, are as follows: — 

Feeble-minded persons : persons in whose case there 
exists from birth or from an early age mental defective- 
ness not amounting to imbecility, yet so pronounced 
that they require care, supervision, and control for their 
own protection or for the protection of others, or, in 
the case of children, that they by reason of such 
defectiveness appear to be permanently incapable of 
receiving proper benefit from the instruction in ordinary 
schools. 

Imbeciles : persons in whose case there exists 
from birth or from an early age mental defective- 
ness not amounting to idiocy, yet so pronounced 
that they are incapable of managing themselves or 
their affairs, or, in the case of children, of being 
taught to do so. 

Idiots: persons so deeply defective in mind from 
birth or from an early age as to be unable to guard 
themselves against common physical dangers. 

The term " moral imbecile " should be limited to 
persons " who from an early age display some 
permanent mental defect coupled with strong vicious 
or criminal propensities on which punishment has had 
little or no deterrent effect " (Mental Deficiency Act, 
Section i ). A child who merely pilfers or is untruthful 
should not be included in this category. 

The distinction between the three classes of children 
comprised in this group is by no means an easy one ; 
such a difficulty necessarily arises when a class has 
in a more or less arbitrary manner to be separated 
off from others. Not that feeble-minded children, for 
instance, do not form a very distinct class, but there 
must necessarily be children at each end of the scale 
presenting difficulties of classification, children who 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN 95 

have close affinities to the backward and imbecile 
children respectively. 

The main function of a definition of the different 
grades of mental defect found among children is to 
enable one to classify them suitably from the point 
of view of giving facilities for their education. The 
practical difficulty which arises to-day is that even 
where provision is made in the form of Special Schools 
for feeble-minded children, no such special provision is 
made for children dull and backward, and the provision, 
on the other hand, is very inadequate for those who may 
be classed as " imbecile." When for all three classes of 
children ample provision is made, there will be but little 
practical difficulty. Sufficient knowledge, obtained only 
after long observation of the child, will be necessary in 
some cases, and where doubt exists as to the right 
classification the child, receiving the benefit of the doubt, 
will be classified for the time being in that class which 
more closely approaches the normal. 

The number of mentally deficient children varies in 
different parts of the country, but expressed in the 
terms of an average community the proportion of 
feeble-minded children is probably about 8"3 per 1 000 
of the school population ; imbeciles number about 073, 
and idiots 0*25 per 1000 of the general population.* 

The question of causation is of much interest and 
practical importance, but at present nothing final can 
be said to have been determined. The right line of 
treatment largely hangs on the decision as to the 
respective part heredity and environment play in 
causation : at present statistics are quite insufficient to 
decide this point. All the best evidence to hand, how- 
ever, points to the extremely important part heredity 

■^ See Mental Deficiency^ Dr. F. A. Tredgold, second edition, 
pp. 158, 190, 196. 



96 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

plays and the effect of environment, pure and simple, 
and, excluding injuries, illnesses, or accidents, recedes 
more and more as an effective cause into the back- 
ground. 

Dr. H. H. Goddard considers that mental deficiency- 
is eminently transmissible. In 164 out of 327 family 
histories investigated, he considered the evidence un- 
doubtedly proved that the defect was inherited, and 
that in 34 other instances there was a strong probability 
of inheritance. Out of 749 children born to feeble- 
minded couples only 6 were of normal intelligence. 

Of environmental factors the part played respectively 
by alcohol and syphilis is of particular importance. 
There are two distinct ways in which excessive drinking 
on the part of the parents might conceivably lead to 
mental deficiency in the offspring: (i) by injuring the 
germ-cells of either parent in a way similar to that by 
which the other cells of the body are injured by 
excessive drinking, and (2) by injuring the develop- 
ment of the brain of the unborn baby through the 
alcohol conveyed in the blood stream from the mother. 
There seems direct evidence that alcohol may be in 
this way a factor in the production of mental 
deficiency.* 

Syphilis derived from the parent or parents has been 
debited with between i per cent, and 2 per cent, of the 
cases of mental deficiency ; it is probable, however, that 
further research and the use of the Wassermann test will 
show that syphilis plays a greater part in the causation 
of the defect than has hitherto been recognized. 

Unsatisfactory unhygienic environment does not 
seem in itself capable of producing mental defect. 

* See paper and discussion, " The Relation of Alcohol to Feeble- 
Mindedness," W. A. Potts, M.D., The British Journal of Inebriety^ 
1909. 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN 97 

Mental deficiency is practically as common among the 
children of the well-to-do as among the children of the 
poor, and among the children of urban as of rural 
areas. Did unsatisfactory environment play a large 
part, mental deficiency would necessarily be much more 
frequently found in the poorest parts of the cities and 
towns than is actually the case. 

Mentally deficient children belong to what have been 
described as neuropathic families — families, that is to 
say, in which some form of mental disturbance occurs 
with abnormal frequency. One of these forms of 
mental instability shows itself in absence of power to 
resist the taking of alcohol to excess, and one would 
expect to find that drunkenness and mental deficiency 
would crop up in the same families without alcohol 
playing necessarily any causal part. Is this neuro- 
pathic inheritance, then, the underlying factor in every 
case of mental deficiency (other than those, of course, 
caused by accident and disease before or after birth) ? 
At present, one certainly cannot affirm this, though 
there appears increasing justification for the view that 
the essential factor in the production of mental 
deficiency is an inherent predisposition to mental 
defect. Without such predisposition it is probable 
that environment, as represented, say, by alcoholism in 
the parent, acts only in most exceptional instances as 
an immediate causal agent. Given such predisposition, 
the appearance, the crystallizing, if one may so put it, 
of the mental defect may be determined by such an 
adverse influence as alcohol, i.e. alcohol may act as a 
precipitating cause. 

The main point which emerges from a consideration 
of the relative parts played by heredity and environ- 
ment is that, in all cases, heredity may be looked 
upon as essentially a potential force — a force frequently 
7 



98 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

of such high potentiality that with a fatal ease it may 
be transformed into an active one, and no power known 
to us can prevent its being so transformed. On the 
other hand, the study of heredity warrants us in taking 
no fatalistic attitude. Our great endeavour should be 
at every turn to cheat it of its prey, and, baffled though 
we may be over and over again, there will certainly be 
many victories to record. This struggle both against 
and for heredity, interpreted into practical measures, 
means attention to environment in the widest sense of 
the word. It means attention to mental no less than 
to physical hygiene, and demands a rational and sane 
outlook on life. The environment must be, that is to 
say, one of all-round wholesomeness, such as is fre- 
quently lacking alike among the well-to-do as among 
the poor, among the dwellers in rural areas as among 
those in urban. 

Diagnosis 

This is by no means in all cases an easy matter, 
and, as one would expect, it is more difficult in the case 
of a younger than in that of an older child. To arrive 
at a satisfactory conclusion as to the child's mental state 
it is necessary to make a clinical examination, and the 
evidence must be carefully collected and the facts under 
the different headings of investigation judiciously 
weighed and their relative value apportioned. 

A medical examination is essential, otherwise 
children who are deaf, deaf and dumb, dumb, partially 
blind, etc., will be labelled mentally defective. 

It is not practicable here to discuss the diagnosis of 
mental deficiency in detail, but the following are among 
the main points which require consideration : — 

I . Family history. This is of value in regard rather 
to prognosis than to diagnosis, but a family history 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN 99 

of some form or forms of mental derangement would 
point to the conclusion that any mental defect found 
in the child was of a permanent character and not of 
the spurious type associated with malnutrition and 
neglect. 

2. Personal history of the child. Information should 
be obtained from the parent upon such points as the 
following : — 

{a) Injury at birth, particularly such as was suffi- 
ciently severe to cause damage to the brain, as 
evidenced by paralysis, etc. 

{U) Previous diseases^ e.g. meningitis, or any 
symptoms suggesting it ; convulsions, any sudden ill- 
ness leading to paralysis, temporary or permanent. 

ic) Age at which the child first walked^ talked, and 
acquired control over the bladder and bowels. In the 
absence of rickets, lateness in walking is of considerable 
importance. 

{d^ Mental characteristics as noted by the parent, e.g. 
the general temperament of the child, whether unduly 
placid, lacking in interest in its surroundings, or unduly 
excitable and restless ; whether strange in any way in 
behaviour ; whether showing any unsatisfactory moral 
peculiarities, e.g. deceitful or cunning. 

{e) Educational facilities. It is obviously of much 
importance to know how far any mental backwardness 
in the child is due to lack of opportunity, and informa- 
tion is required as to whether and for how long the child 
has attended school, or as to efforts which may have 
been made to teach the child at home. 

(/") Home surroundings. It will be necessary to 
take due account of evidence of neglect or of bad 
treatment. 

3. Physical condition of the child. 

{a) General, The points to be more particularly 



100 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

noted here will be in regard to the state of nutrition ; 
evidence of constitutional disease, such as rickets or 
syphilis, or of any other disease, such as anaemia. 
Careful attention should be paid to the general physical 
condition, since mental deficiency may be simulated by 
mere backwardness associated with bad nutrition and 
anaemia in a neglected child. 

(J?) Special senses. Careful examination should be 
directed to vision and hearing. It is not an infrequent 
occurrence for deaf children to be incorrectly classified 
as mentally defective. The two conditions may be, 
and comparatively often are, associated in the same 
child when it is important to analyse the relative pro- 
portion of the two defects. A comparatively slight 
degree of deafness may cause a child to appear stupid. 
In the examination of the child the degree of hearing 
for vowel sounds and for consonants must be deter- 
mined, as also the extent to which the child is capable 
of lip-reading. The examination itself will afford 
valuable evidence as to the mental condition of the 
child. 

(c) Special stigmata. Undue stress has been laid 
in the past upon some of these physical signs. Never- 
theless, note should be made of such points as marked 
asymmetry of the head, of the freedom or attachment 
of the lower lobe of the ear, or of abnormal curving of 
the little finger. It should be remembered that any 
one of the so-called stigmata of degeneration may be 
found in quite " normal " people, though the association 
of several such signs may well point to abnormality in 
mental development. Definite microcephaly is, how- 
ever, of great importance; it is unusual in a child 
7 years old to find full mental development when 
the maximum circumference of the head is below 
19 inches. Further well-marked signs of mental 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN loi 



defect will be found associated with the physical signs 
characteristic of cretinism and mongolism. 

An investigation by Dr. F. C. Shrubshall ''^ in 191 3 as to the fre- 
quency of the presence of such stigmata among mentally defective 
children showed the existence of the following percentages of the 
various forms among the children in attendance at the Special 
Schools in London : — 

Maximum circumference of head — Percentage. 

Under 19 inches . . . 6*8 

Under 20 inches . . . 36*2 

Over 20 inches . . . . . 1*2 

Bossed forehead . . . . 5'i 

Cranial asymmetry — 

In marked degree . . . . 5 "2 

In minor degree .... 23*0 

Maximum evidence of rickets . . . 7'o 

High-arched palate . . . .12*6 

Broad base to nose . . . . ii'o 

Narrow palate ..... 9*8 

Prominent teeth . . . . . 6'i 

General retardation of growth . . . 5 '6 

Epicanthic fold . . . . . 5 "5 

Narrow forehead . . . . 3'o 

Low forehead . . . . . 2*3 

Microcephaly ..... 2*2 

Mongolism . . . . . 17 

Hutchinson's teeth . . . . i*6 

Hydrocephaly . . . . . i'5 

Depressed bridge of nose . ' . . i'2 

Cleft palate . . . . . vi 

Cretinoid development . . . . I'l 

Webbed fingers . . . . . o'l 

■**• Report of [London] County Medical Officer— Education, 191 3, 
p. III. See also the following by Francis Warner, M.D., F.R.C. P., 
"Results of an Inquiry as to the Physical and Mental Condition of 
Fifty Thousand Children seen in One Hundred and Six Schools," 
Royal Statistical Society^ London, 1893; "Mental and Physical 
Conditions among Fifty Thousand Children seen 1892-94," ibid., 
1896 ; "On the Relations between Bodily Development, Nutrition, 
and Brain Conditions : Their Pathological Aspects," Royal Medical 
and Chirurgical Society of London, London, 1897. 



102 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

4. Mental condition of the child. The following are 
some of the more important points requiring attention, 
and it will be necessary to make a careful examination 
under each heading, though only the outline can be 
given here : — 

{a) Muscular balance. This includes observations 
on (a) the expression of the face and facial movements, 
such as undue puckering of the brows, twitchings of 
the facial muscles, continual grinning ; (^) the general 
carriage of the child and attitude when standing and 
walking, a flexed attitude being very noticeable in many 
cases of mental defect ; (7) the characteristics of the 
outstretched hand — whether, for instance, there is 
marked flexion and extension at the wrist joints, or 
undue dropping of the thumb or irregular spreading 
or over-extension or continual movement or twitching 
of the fingers. 

{h) Special habits, such as spitting or lack of 
control over the bladder or rectum. This latter point 
more especially requires careful attention. It should 
be remembered that children may habitually soil their 
clothes, and that such action is not necessarily a sign 
of physical disease or of permanent mental defect ; it 
may be simply the result of parental indifference and 
neglect. 

{c) Speech, The examination of the speech is of 
considerable importance in determining the presence 
or otherwise of permanent mental defect. Marked 
defects of speech, it is true, will often at once betray 
the mental defect of the child, but, nevertheless, many 
a child of, say, 7 years of age, may speak imper- 
fectly and fail to pronounce properly some of the 
consonants. Such children, however, if not actually 
mentally defective, can, if persevered with at the time 
of the examination, usually be induced to make the 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN 103 

sounds correctly. If such a child, on the other hand, 
is found incapable of so doing, such defect in speech is 
strong evidence of permanent mental defect. 

{d) Temperament, The two extremes are of im- 
portance here — listlessness and placidity on the one 
hand, and excitement and restlessness on the other. 
The former state is commonly associated with under- 
nourishment and bad home surroundings, and will be 
recovered from as these conditions improve. The 
latter is often characteristic, and is different in quality 
from that of the restless healthy child. 

ie) Response. This, it is true, may be very slow in 
a badly-nourished and badly-nurtured child, but in an 
otherwise healthy child slow and uncertain response 
is an important indication of mental defect. Some 
mentally deficient children are of quick response, 
however, but there is frequently abnormality in the 
manner of response ; the action is exaggerated and 
overdone. 

(/) Concentration. Lack of concentration is per- 
haps the most constant of all signs in mentally defec- 
tive children. It may assume a very marked degree, 
and the child be unable to give attention to any one 
thing for more than a second or two, and indeed it is 
difficult for the child even to sit still. This lack of 
concentration shows itself in every action of the child, 
and does not merely apply to school work. Thus the 
child may be incapable of looking at one for longer 
than a momentary glance, it is unable to follow an 
object such as a pencil moved before the eyes, and if 
asked to carry out any action it almost at once passes 
to some other, unless indeed the child is of the lethargic 
type, when the attention seems given to nothing at all. 

{£) Memory. Defective memory is a characteristic 
feature of mentally deficient children. A word of 



104 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

caution is necessary as to the marvellous memory of 
the parrot kind now and again met with among these 
children. 

{h) Purpose. Lack of purpose and resoluteness 
naturally follows from what has been already indicated. 

(J) Discipline. The mentally deficient child often 
shows lack of control in one direction or another, and 
will power is frequently but feebly developed. These 
children are good imitators and accordingly are easily 
led. 

(y) Educational attainments. These must always 
be viewed in the light of the child's opportunities in 
the past, and they will then be found to be of the 
greatest value in assessing mental defect. Thus, if a 
child has attended school for perhaps a couple of years, 
and at the age of, say, 7 years, knows only a few 
of its letters, or is unable to add correctly together 
two and three, there is marked presumption of irre- 
parable mental defect. Attention should also be paid 
to the child's capabilities in regard to kindergarten and 
manual work, though considerable proficiency in this 
direction is not incompatible with very real mental 
defect. 

{k) Moral characteristics. The child with marked 
moral defect unassociated with other characteristic 
signs of mental deficiency is but rarely met with. Bad 
moral traits may, however, accompany comparatively 
moderate degrees of mental defect, and are at times 
of considerable value in determining the presence of 
mental deficiency. Thus such children may be ex- 
tremely spiteful and even cruel ; they may be deceitful 
and untruthful, and at the same time possessed of 
much cunning. On the other hand, marked cases of 
mental defect are frequently associated with a high 
type of character. 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN 105 

In the examination of a child for mental defect the 
use of a series of standard tests to act as a measuring 
scale for intelligence will be found of much service. 
The best known tests of this character are those 
devised by MM. Binet and Simon, which were 
originally devised to measure the capacity for educa- 
tion of an individual, but since have been widely used 
for diagnostic purposes. A valuable modification of 
these tests suited for Anglo-Saxons has been made 
by Dr. H. H. Goddard.* For children over 10 years 
of age and adolescents with slight mental defect, Dr. 
Walter E. Fernald has framed a preliminary set of 
questions to elicit " the patient's power of attention, 
judgment and common sense, veracity, discrimination, 
constructive imagination, etc., as well as his stock of 
general knowledge, information, and actual scholastic 
ability." f He goes on to advise the use of a tentative 
series of psychological tests, such as those devised by 
Dr. Wm. C. Healy.J These consist of a series of 
practical puzzles and other psychological procedures 
admirably adapted to supplement the elementary tests 
of Binet and Simon. The Krapelin number tests 
and some of Terman's tests are also of considerable 
value. 

The treatment of this group of children is fraught 
with difficulties, and this is so chiefly because the 
whole training and education of such children cannot 
be considered apart from the problem presented by 



* The Training School^ June, 191 1. 

t "The Diagnosis of the Higher Grades of Mental Defect," 
A merican Journal of Insanity^ January, 1 9 1 4. 

X Tests for Practical Mental Classification^ Psychological 
Monograph No. 54, Drs. Healy and Fernald (Baltimore Pub- 
lishing Company, 41 North Queen Street, Lancaster, Penn- 
sylvania, and Baltimore, Maryland). 



io6 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

them as adults. No amount of education or training 
can transform a mentally deficient child into a normal 
one. Once vieiitally deficient^ always mentally deficient, 
is a fact which must form the groundwork of any plan 
which we devise for dealing with this group. As we 
have seen, feeble-mindedness depends for its perpetua- 
tion essentially upon heredity, and it is of supreme 
importance that this group of children should, on reach- 
ing adult life, not be permitted to perpetuate their 
stock ; how frequently they have done so in the past 
is evidenced, inter alia^ by the records of the lying-in 
wards of the workhouses. 

It will be evident that nothing can be hoped for in 
regard to the education of feeble-minded children from 
the methods and curriculum of the ordinary elementary 
school. The feeble-minded child requires a separate 
school or institution. Power to give effect to this was 
conferred by the Elementary Education (Defective and 
Epileptic Children) Act, 1899, and as a result of the 
passing of this Act, Day Special Schools have been 
established in a considerable number of the larger, 
towns, and a few Residential Schools have also been 
opened. Such provision, however, is very inadequate 
compared with the number of children requiring this 
special treatment. The total number of feeble-minded 
children in England and Wales was estimated by the 
Royal Commission on the Care and Control of the 
Feeble-minded, on I January, 1906, to be over 35,000. 
According to the list of certified schools issued by the 
Board of Education there was, in 191 2, accommodation 
for approximately 14,000 children, one-half of which 
was made in respect of London children. The accom- 
modation thus provided is almost entirely in the form 
of Day Special Schools, the Residential Schools 
accounting for about 600 of the places only. 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN 107 

The Day Special Schools 

In considering the kind of training and teaching 
required, it should be clearly understood that these 
children can never be educated in the usually accepted 
sense of the word ; the methods and aims and traditions 
of the ordinary elementary school must be put upon 
one side almost entirely. Until this is done there is 
very little chance of useful individual development of 
each child being carried out. 

In small towns, the size of the Special School will be 
determined, of course, by the number of candidates for 
such a school. In the larger cities and towns the 
great importance of classification should be kept in 
mind. The younger children should be taught sepa- 
rately from the older, and the older boys and girls 
should again be taught separately, the former being 
under male teachers. In spite of a few drawbacks it 
is probable that the best plan upon which to provide 
for these children is in a large school sufficiently on 
the outskirts of the town to provide, among other 
advantages, opportunity for gardening both for the older 
and for the younger children. This will entail convey- 
ing the children, but a tram-car will probably be avail- 
able, and, as a matter of fact, conveying cannot in any 
case be entirely avoided. Moreover, to have the school 
at some distance from the homes of the children is no 
great drawback ; there are substantial advantages in 
these children remaining at school for the day. The 
younger children will, as we have said, be taught in- 
dividually, and the more the numbers allow of differen- 
tiation the better : in the case of some children con- 
siderable time may advantageously be spent on reading 
and writing, for instance, while on others time so spent 
is simply wasted. The prime object of these schools 



io8 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

will be, not to teach definite subjects, but to train the 
children in good personal habits, to make them re- 
sponsive, obedient, thoughtful for others, and to give 
them self-respect. New interests must be awakened 
in their lives, opportunity must be given for self- 
expression in the ways characteristic of each child. 

Of fundamental importance to these children is 
training in personal hygiene ; habits of cleanliness and 
neatness must be instilled into them : they must learn 
to take proper care of their person, each child should 
bring his own towel, have brush and comb and tooth- 
brush, and be taught to use them properly and 
regularly. 

The provision of a satisfactory midday meal properly 
served affords an opportunity for the training in habits 
of cleanly eating and in general behaviour. 

Physical and breathing exercises, games, shower- 
baths, swimming, etc., will form an important part of 
the school curriculum. Special attention should be 
given to speech : in this the majority of feeble-minded 
children are defective. 

The mental education of these children can only be 
brought about through handwork, and this should be 
the basis in one or another of its numerous forms of 
all efforts for their education. Such manual work 
should have purpose in it, and should be of such a 
kind as to interest the children keenly ; there is no 
place for routine or mere monotony in the Special 
School. 

Thus the making of cord involves the repetition of 
simple co-ordinated movements and serves to train the 
children in muscular control ; the making of envelopes 
gives to paper-folding a real interest, and in addition 
to teaching the children muscular control, serves as an 
elementary lesson in differences of form, size, and colour. 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN 109 

An outline of the curriculum of a Special School for Mental 
Defectives with four grades is as follows : — 

In the lowest or kindergarten class, the children are taught 
habits of cleanliness, neatness, care of the person, and manners. 
The training is by means of sense lessons, during which an attempt 
is made to build up sense associations, e.g. those of taste and 
smell with common objects, colour with form and with form and 
size, together with co-ordinated hand-training, which is a direct 
preparation for manual work. 

The hand-training is also carried out by plaiting of coloured 
ribbons, by shoe-lacing, buttoning and unbuttoning buttons, etc. 

Children with no capacity for intellectual advance may never 
get beyond this class. 

In the next class the beginnings of handwork are taught — bead- 
threading, sewing patterns on cards with holes pierced through 
them, winding wool, the use of knitting-frames, hemming, paper- 
folding, and cutting are included among the means used to develop 
the faculties of the children. 

In the third class the children are able to make baskets, bags, 
and mats from raffia ; more difficult beadwork ; knitting and 
sewing ; weaving, using raffia ; elementary woodwork, such as the 
making of boxes, dolls' furniture ; the elements of rugwork and 
more difficult paper-folding and cutting. In the highest class the 
boys undertake woodwork, elementary, and shoe-repairing ; the 
girls knitting, needlework, crochet work, and bead-loom work, while 
the following handwork is carried out by both boys and girls — 
more difficult raffia work and paper-folding, cardboard work, 
netting of hammocks, etc., rug-making, and cane basketwork. 

For older boys, woodwork, ironwork, cobbling, 
tailoring, and other forms of manual work, especially- 
gardening, should form the main part of the curriculum. 
Woodwork, comprising a knowledge of the use of tools 
and the making of simple objects, such as trellis work, 
boxes, and useful articles, is a useful form of manual 
work for the boys who are less capable with their 
hands and less quick and responsive generally than 
other boys. Gardening provides a manual occupation 
for boys even less capable. At the age of 14 any boy 
showing promise of being able to earn his living at 



no THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

any particular craft should be allowed to devote to it 
as much time as possible. 

The curriculum of the older girls should be based 
on the idea that the class is a family living its 
ordinary life at home; in any case, most of their 
time should be spent on household work of all 
kinds. A set time-table is inadvisable ; such subjects 
as arithmetic, reading, and singing may almost entirely 
be worked in with manual instruction. For example, 
when sewing, girls might be asked to measure the 
amount of material used ; be questioned about the 
price of the material, etc. ; one of the pupils might 
perhaps read aloud while the others sew or knit. 

The place and function of the Day Special School 
is limited. A considerable proportion of the children, 
generally estimated at about one-third, will require 
permanent care in a Residential Institution or Colony, 
whither they should be drafted not later than at the 
age of 12 years. In the case of some of the children, 
especially if under unsatisfactory home surroundings, 
admission at an earlier age to a Residential Institution 
is desirable. Further experience of the after-history 
of feeble-minded children will probably show the 
advisability of providing permanent care for a still 
larger proportion. In any event, the Day Special 
School must be looked upon rather as a link in the 
chain of treatment than as providing an end in itself. 
For children not transferred to the Residential In- 
stitution there must be a close linking up of the school 
with the possibilities of the after-school life of the 
child. Where there is any hope of the child learning 
a trade all effort should be concentrated upon this, 
and by means of a trade school or by apprenticeship 
the child should be helped to be, as far as possible, 
a self-supporting member of the community. Short 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN iii 

of this it is unlikely that he will prove self-support- 
ing ; he may, in certain of the manufacturing towns, 
be able to earn perhaps some eight to ten shillings a 
week in the mill, but, generally speaking, he will tend 
to fall into the lowest class of the casual labourer — in 
other words, become a loafer. 

In regard to London children, the After-Care 
Association for Elder Mentally Defective Children 
reports : — 

" Unfortunately it is often only during the first 
three or four years after leaving school that these 
children are able to compete with those of average 
intelligence. A number of them, if kept under regular 
supervision, would be able to do very fair work and 
become to a certain extent self-supporting, but when 
they reach the age of 19 or 20 it is doubtful if they 
are able to earn the wages of a normal [person] of the 
same age, and it is often due to the kindness and 
forbearance of the employer that the children keep 
their situations so long." 

The experience of the After-Care Committee of the 
Birmingham Education Committee is more satisfactory. 

Of 916 mentally defective children who have 
passed through their Special Schools, 292, or 32 per 
cent., are doing remunerative work, the average weekly 
wage earned by 195 males being 9s. 4d. a week, and 
that earned by 77 females 6s. 5d. a week. 

The Residential Home or Colony 

The value of a Residential Home for mental de- 
fectives lies not only in the facts that deleterious 
influences are eliminated from the lives of the children, 
and that they are constantly under supervision, but 
chiefly because they are enabled in such a Home to 



112 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

find an opportunity for giving expression to their best 
impulses and emotions. Each day the child mingles 
with those who know more than he does and those 
who know less. He has the opportunity of selecting his 
own friends. In a well-equipped and sympathetically 
managed Home the feeble-minded have opportunities 
of exerting their powers in many directions closed to 
them in the world outside. On the farm a boy can 
care for live stock, act as carter, and plough, plant, hoe, 
cultivate, and harvest crops. He can dig trenches, etc., 
excavate basements for new buildings and assist in 
their erection. In the carpenter's shop he will find 
many jobs within his powers, and he will be able to 
take his part in the tailor's and cobbler's shops. The 
boys may be orgapized into a successful company of 
Boy Scouts. A girl can cook, darn, sew, and clean 
and care for the younger children. 

Permanent detention does not prove in practice 
so great a difficulty as some might anticipate. The 
feeble-minded remain children ; it is a great mistake 
to read into their thoughts the thoughts and aspirations 
of the adult. The detention is, moreover, not so long 
as one might expect ; the tendency, even under good 
surroundings, is apparently for a considerable number 
of the feeble-minded to die comparatively young. 

One of the earliest colonies established in England 
for this purpose is situated at Sandlebridge, Cheshire, 
under the management of the Incorporated Lancashire 
and Cheshire Society for the Permanent Care of the 
Feeble-minded, and is due in the main to the initiative 
of Miss Mary Dendy, to whom this class of children and 
the whole community are under a considerable debt. 

The Colony and School cover about 200 acres, 
and include three residential homes for younger school 
children, a schoolhouse, a home for elder and adolescent 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN 113 

girls and women, and two homes for adolescent boys and 
men. The boys and girls attend the school together, 
and the education is largely by manual training. The 
older boys spend part of their time, and the adolescents 
their whole time, in the farm and garden, and are able 
in this way to make a substantial contribution to the 
cost of their maintenance. 



Imbecile and Idiot Children 

For practical purposes under this heading should be 
included all those children who may be kept clean 
and contented, afforded simple amusements and 
possibly taught to perform some very coarse forms of 
manual work, but who cannot be trained in any reason- 
able sense of the term. 

Unless the home circumstances are exceptionally 
favourable they will probably eventually be draughted 
to Homes for such children. 

If not under skilled supervision they rapidly dete- 
riorate, often become troublesome and destructive, and 
when for some reason or other they must be maintained 
by the State, the cost of their maintenance in institu- 
tions is much increased by their acquired faults. For 
the lowest type of imbecile and idiot children little 
can be done beyond the inculcation of orderly and 
cleanly habits and tuition in such minor matters as 
dressing and undressing, etc. 

The Mental Deficiency Act, 191 3,* places the duty upon the 
Local Education Authority of notifying to the Mental Deficiency 

* It should be stated that Mental Deficiency Act Committees 
have the power of placing certain children and persons under 
supervision in their own homes, guardianship in the homes of 
others, and in Residential Institutions ; part or the whole of the 
cost of maintenance can be recovered from the parents. 
8 



114 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

Act Committees constituted by County Boroughs or County 
Councils those children (a) ineducable at a special school or class 
for mental defectives ; (d) or who would not benefit by further 
attendance at such a school or class ; (c) also, those children 
attending the school or class who on or before reaching the age of 
1 6 are about to be withdrawn from the school or class, and in 
whose care the Local Education Committee consider it would be 
for their benefit to be placed in a Residential Institution or under 
guardianship. 

Children with very unsatisfactory homes in attendance at special 
schools or classes for mental defectives can be placed under 
guardianship subject to the consent of the Board of Education. 

In the following instances the Treasury will pay a substantial 
proportion of the cost (one-half if the funds available permit) of 
maintenance of mentally defective persons : — 

(i) Children referred to the local Mental Deficiency Act 
Committee by the Local Education Authority. 

(2) Mental defectives found neglected, abandoned, or without 
visible means of support, or cruelly treated. 

(3) Mentally defective children brought before a Court with 
a view to send them to Industrial Schools on account of having 
been found begging, wandering, destitute, etc., or other mentally 
defective persons found guilty of any criminal offence. 

(4) Women who are in receipt of poor relief at the time of 
giving birth to an illegitimate child or when pregnant of such a 
child. 

Other instances less likely to arise are given in Section 2 of the 
Mental Deficiency Act, 1913. 

Feeble-minded persons under 21 years of age can be placed in 
institutions, or placed under guardianship, at the instance of their 
parents ; an imbecile or idiot at any age can similarly be dealt 
with ; no part of the cost of maintenance of such persons is 
recoverable from the Treasury. 

The_total annual expenditure may not exceed the amount 
produced by a halfpenny rate. 



CHAPTER VII 

SPECIAL GROUPS OF SCHOOL CHILDREN 

(continued) 

Epileptic children— Causation of epilepsy— Numbers— Classifi- 
cation— Treatment— Respective place of day and residential 
school— The blind and partially blind— Causation— Training the 
deaf and partially deaf — Classification — Causation — Speech 
defects — The physically defective— Crippled children— Education 
— Prevention — Imbecile and idiot children — Children with 
combined defects — After care. 

The Epileptic 

THIS group of children has much afifinity with the 
preceding one ; a considerable proportion of 
mental defectives are epileptic, and epilepsy is itself a 
disease which in many cases leads to gradual mental 
deterioration. 

The causation of the disease may be viewed from 
two aspects, according as to whether the causes are 
(i) pi'edisposing, or (2) exciting. The predisposing 
causes are the more important, and much of what has 
already been said in regard to the cause of mental 
defect applies also in the case of epilepsy. Thus 
epilepsy frequently occurs in what are called 
" neuropathic " families ; it is one evidence of nervous 
instability, of which feeble-mindedness, insanity, or 
alcoholism are also manifestations. The history of 

"S 



ii6 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

one or another of these neuroses may with frequency 
be obtained in the case of a person suffering from 
epilepsy, and a definite history of the disease itself in 
a previous generation is obtained in approximately 
one-half of the cases which come under notice. 

As a result of an investigation into the question of 
epilepsy among Sheffield school children, it was found 
that in 51 per cent, of the 121 children examined the 
immediate relations had suffered from epilepsy, in- 
sanity had occurred in 6 6' 5 per cent, of the families, 
and alcoholism in 26 per cent. 

In the case of 80 children admitted into the 
Lingfield Colony, a family history of epilepsy was 
obtained in 337 per cent. ; of insanity in 10 per cent. ; 
of epilepsy, convulsions, or insanity in 50 per cent.* 

The exciting causes are numerous, and will be 
marked or trivial in accordance with the degree of the 
predisposition. Thus, the first epileptic fit may occur 
on very slight provocation in a child with a neuropathic 
family history ; an attack of indigestion or the cutting 
of a tooth, or a fright or a fall, to which in the ordinary 
way no importance would be attached, may be the 
starting-point of the disease. In other cases the 
disease will not be precipitated without a more power- 
ful exciting cause, which indeed occasionally may in 
itself be sufficient to start the onset of the disease 
in the absence of any predisposition on the part of 
the patient. Such cases are, however, comparatively 
uncommon, and when they do occur the exciting cause 
will be found to have produced definite disease, as, for 
example, injury to the brain, or cerebral haemorrhage 
or meningitis. 

■^ See Annual Report of School Medical Officer for Sheffield 
(Dr. R. P. Williams), for 191 2, and Annual Report for 19 12 of the 
Chief Medical Officer of the Board of Education, pp. 107, iii. 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN 117 

The age of onset. — Epilepsy may commence at any 
age ; in three-quarters of the cases, however, the dis- 
ease manifests itself before 20 years of age. 

The following return, compiled by Dr. Spratling,* 
affords detailed information as to the age of onset in 
the case of 1 162 epileptics : in 27-1 per cent, of these 
patients, the disease commenced before 5 years of age ; 
in 46*4 per cent, between the ages of 5 and 14; and 
in 26*5 per cent, at a later age. 

In regard to the number oi ^'^A&y^W.z children, returns 
from the medical officers of 24 Local Education 
Authorities in 191 2 indicated that of 876,830 Public 
Elementary School children 1353 were epileptics, i.e. 
I in 648. 

Epileptic children can be classified for practical 
purposes into three groups, according to whether they 
are (i) sane, (2) mentally deficient, (3) insane. 

The large majority of epileptic children are, however, 
sane ; probably 1 2 to 15 per cent, only are comprised in 
the mentally deficient and insane groups. There is, 
however, a progressive tendency towards mental 
deterioration, the intellectual capacities become more 
or less blunted, the power of concentration and steadi- 
ness of purpose lessened, and the memory unreliable. 
The earlier the onset of the disease the less favourable 
is the prospect as regards the mental condition. 

From a school point of view considerable importance 
attaches to the frequency of the fits. There is great 
variety in this respect. Fits may occasionally occur 
daily, more often at an interval of a week or so ; most 
usually, however, at intervals of one to three months, 
while in some children they may occur perhaps only 
once in a year. They seldom occur at any regular 

* Epilepsy and its Treatment, Wm. P. Spratling, M.D. (W. B. 
Saunders & Co., 1904). 



ii8 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

interval, however. There may be several in a week 
and then a period of quiescence for perhaps months, 
followed by another series. Moreover, in a child in 
whom the fits have appeared but infrequently, they 
may begin to recur with greatly increased frequency, 
and similarly short intervals of days or weeks may 
be suddenly or gradually lengthened into intervals of 
months. 

The time of occurrence is of importance, especially 
from the point of view of school attendance. In some 
children the fits are always at night, in others usually 
during the day. Thus in the former case children may 
attend school even though fits are occurring with com- 
parative frequency, while in the latter it is not usually 
permissible to allow children to attend school should 
the fits occur during school hours even though the in- 
terval may be one of several months. 

The course of the disease presents much variation. 
Perhaps the point which needs especial emphasis is 
that children who are subject to fits seldom " outgrow " 
them, and although very young children who may have 
fits with great frequency may almost lose them during 
school life, there is a serious probability that the fits 
will recur again later in life. 

The treatment of epilepsy is a question first of 
hygiene and secondly of drugs. Should a child be a 
member of what was spoken of above as a " neuro- 
pathic " family, every effort should be made to prevent 
the development of any form of neurosis in the child. 
This, it is true, it may not be possible to accomplish ; 
but nevertheless, in the case of epilepsy, for example, it 
is quite conceivable that the onset of the disease may 
be prevented by an upbringing hygienic in every 
aspect. The measures to be followed, in the attempt 
to prevent the onset of the disease, are similar to those 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN 119 

required for its treatment when developed. Fresh air 
at all times is essential by day and by night, an un- 
stimulating diet, avoiding an excess of meat but con- 
taining a good proportion of fat ; abundant sleep by 
night, and an hour or two's rest in the middle of the 
day. 

As regards drug treatment^ reliance is placed chiefly 
on the bromide salts. There is considerable diversity 
of opinion as to the efficacy of this treatment. In in- 
stitutions for sane epileptics the majority of the children 
receive bromides, small doses, however, as a rule being 
given, while in others it is given in exceptional cases 
only. 

On the mental side, the child requires to be kept 
continually interested and employed. While all over- 
stimulation is to be avoided and too close application 
to purely intellectual work, yet the epileptic child is 
not only capable of, but greatly benefits from, regular 
school work. The methods of teaching, however, and 
the conditions under which the child is taught should 
be such as are found associated with the Open-air 
School (vide Chap. XIII.), rather than those which 
obtain in the ordinary Elementary School. 

Turning, however, to the more concrete problem, we 
have to consider what steps an Educational Authority 
is called upon to take in regard to the epileptic children 
under its care. The majority of such children will be 
found capable of attending the ordinary Elementary 
School, their fits being infrequent or occurring only at 
night. It not infrequently happens also that the 
child's parent is able to tell when a fit may be ex- 
pected, and the child is accordingly kept from school 
at such time. 

A certain number of epileptic children are unable to 
attend the ordinary Elementary School. In 191 2, of 



120 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

1353 epileptic school children, 423 (31*3 per cent.) 
were not in attendance at school. The life of such 
children is usually very unsatisfactory. Devoid for the 
nnost part of interest and useful and regular occupa- 
tion, they tend to degenerate, and special provision for 
their treatment and education is imperatively called 
for. It must be admitted also that some of the 
children who are capable of attending, and do attend, 
the ordinary Elementary School would be much better 
under special treatment. 

For such children a Boarding School is required, 
and the remarks which have been made when speaking 
of the Residential Home for feeble-minded children 
apply to this class of child also. The principle of the 
Colony should be adapted for these children as for 
them, since adequate classification is essential. As in 
the case of the feeble-minded child, the problem of 
treatment does not cease upon the child attaining to 
the age of 16 years. The majority of children suit- 
able for a Residential Home will never be able to 
withstand the stress of ordinary everyday life, nor to 
earn their own living. They require to have their 
lives in large measure regulated for them ; under such 
conditions they will live, not only happy and useful 
lives, but in the majority of cases will be capable of 
supporting themselves. Too sanguine hopes must not 
be entertained of curing the disease. Our knowledge, 
it must be admitted, as to the course of the disease is 
at present imperfect. While it is true that speaking 
generally the disease tends to progress, it is certain 
that a small proportion of cases spontaneously become 
cured. The most that can be hoped from treatment 
in the Residential Home is that a somewhat larger 
proportion of cases will be cured, while in by far the 
greater number, at any rate, much improvement will 



k 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN 121 

result, the further progress of the disease will be 
arrested, and, what is of the greatest moment, the onset 
and development of mental degeneration will be fre- 
quently prevented. It must be clearly understood, 
however, that the beneficial results of treatment will 
only continue for such time as the treatment is con- 
tinued ; should the sufferer return to the old, un- 
hygienic conditions, the chances of relapse are great, 
while the training and the expense incurred at the 
Colony will have been in large measure wasted. 

Local Education Authorities should work hand in 
hand with Boards of Guardians so that after the child 
reaches 16 years of age the Guardians, if considered 
desirable, may continue the maintenance of the child at 
the Colony. 

Provision of the nature indicated above is at present 
inadequate. There are only six such Residential Homes 
with a total accommodation for 496 children.* 

The Blind and Partially Blind 

Of the special groups of school children, the class of 
blind children has been the most adequately provided 
for. This is due to the fact that special provision for 
blind children was made obligatory upon Education 
Authorities by the passing of the Elementary Educa- 
tion (Blind and Deaf Children) Act, 1893. There are 
in England and Wales 42 schools providing for 1939 
children. 

* These Homes are situated respectively at Chalfont St. Peter 
(Bucks), Lingfield (Surrey), MaghuU (near Liverpool), Much 
Hadham (Hertfordshire), Starnthwaite (near Kendal), and Soss 
Moss (near Alderley Edge, Cheshire), the last named being the 
only institution of the kind maintained by an Education Authority 
(Manchester). 



122 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

In regard to the causation of blindness, the most 
outstanding fact is that a large proportion of cases of 
blindness and partial blindness could with ease have 
been prevented. Ophthalmia in the new-born ac- 
counts for approximately 30 per cent, of such cases 
among children in this country, and it is hardly too 
much to say that ignorance and carelessness are re- 
sponsible for every one of such cases. Apart from this 
disease, however, other conditions causing very serious 
defect of vision need not have occurred if early and 
regular treatment had been resorted to. On this point 
Dr. Adolph Bronner remarks — 

" A large number of cases of defective vision and 
blindness are due to disease of the cornea and other 
parts of the eye. Ulcers and inflammation of the 
cornea (which are very common in children), if 
neglected or not carefully treated, cause opacities, 
more or less marked. The longer the ulcer lasts and 
the more frequently it recurs, the more dense will the 
opacity become and the more defective the sight. 
Every case which cannot be properly attended to at 
home should be at once admitted into hospital. The 
same applies to disease of such delicate structures as 
the optic nerve and retina. These require most 
energetic and careful treatment, and, if neglected, cause 
permanent blindness. If all these cases which occur 
in the homes of the poor (where careful nursing is often 
impossible) were admitted into hospital, thousands of 
children would be saved from defective vision and 
blindness." * 

Other cases of blindness and partial blindness in 

* " The Definition of Blindness in Children : Its Causes and 
Prevention," Adolph Bronner, M.D., Transactions of the Second 
International Congress on School Hygiene (London : Royal 
Sanitary Institute, 1908). 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN 123 

children are due to inherited diseases and defects such 
as syphilis and cataract, and will continue to arise so 
long as men and women suffering from such trans- 
missible disease or defects take upon themselves the 
responsibility of procreation. 

In the training and education of the blind we come 
across problems very similar to those already met 
with in connection with the other special groups of 
school children already referred to. In this class of 
children, as in others, we are only on the threshold 
of the problem of dealing with them when we have 
withdrawn them from the ordinary Elementary School. 
The majority of blind children will never be able 
unaided and unsupervised to earn a living for them- 
selves ; accordingly it is imperative that there shall 
be no break in their training and education. 

Further, experience has shown how insufficient is 
the education provided by a Day School for blind 
children. This is to a large degree true for the blind 
children of all classes of society, but more emphatically 
so in the case of the children of the poor, whose 
parents, through lack of knowledge, time, and oppor- 
tunity, are quite unable to provide the necessary training 
for their children out of school hours. It is not too 
much to say, moreover, that this general training is of 
more importance than any actual instruction. The poor 
physical condition of many blind children brought 
up in their own homes, their lack of vigour and self- 
reliance and interest in what is going on, the peculiar 
habits they are apt to form, all point to the necessity 
of placing their whole lives, with social conditions 
such as they are, under the care and control of those 
specially trained for the work. The inadequacy of 
the Day School for the training of these children is 
becoming increasingly apparent, and, in the opinion 



124 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

of many qualified to judge, but a comparatively poor 
return is obtained for the money expended. 

The curriculum at two typical Residential Schools for the 
Blind is as follows : — 

At the Brighton Asylum for the Instruction of the Blind, boys 
are admitted from the age of 5 to 12 years, and leave on reaching 
16 years of age. The curriculum includes Reading, Writing, 
Arithmetic, Elementary Science, History, Geography, Scripture, 
Physical Training and Games and various forms of Handwork, 
such as Clay Modelling, Net-making, Pianoforte Tuning, Chair 
and Basketwork, Woodwork, School Gardening, and Typewriting. 

The morning session is from 9-12 o'clock, the first half-hour 
being devoted to Physical Drill or Walking Exercise. Organized 
games are taken daily from 2-3 on four afternoons a week. From 
3-4.30 (Juniors) or 3-5 (Seniors) Manual Training in various forms 
is taught. Swimming is taught to the Senior Scholars. 

At the Barclay Home for Blind Girls, girls are admitted from 
5 years of age. The curriculum includes Reading, Writing, 
Arithmetic, History, Geography, Scripture, Drill, and Handwork. 
The Junior Class {cBt. 5 to 10 years) are taught Clay Modelling, 
Beadwork, Paper-folding, and Knitting ; the Middle Class, Sewing, 
Knitting, Basketwork and Chair-caning ; the Senior Class in 
addition are taught Weaving and Machine-knitting. Morning 
school is from 9. 1 5-1 1. 15 for four days a week, from 9-12 on the 
other two days ; afternoon school from 2-4.30. The children are 
taken for a walk daily. 

The powers of an Education Authority to maintain 
blind children in institutions cease when the child 
becomes 16 years of age.* 

Unfortunately few of the children are able to earn 
wages at this age. A certain proportion are then 
dealt with by Blind Aid Societies, Homes for the 
Blind, and the Poor Law ; but systematic supervision 
after 1 6 years of age of all blind children is necessary 

* In special cases, however, grants may be paid in respect 
of instruction of students (including defective persons) in Day 
Technical Classes. The annual grant varies from 40s. -60s. for 
each student. 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN 125 

to ensure that the most should be made of the training 
already received, or, if advisable, further industrial 
training provided. Children leaving Residential In- 
stitutions for the Blind are followed up by certain 
Local Education Authorities, but the principle should 
be extended to all blind children. 

The aim of industrial training is to fit the child 
to earn his living ; unfortunately, owing to lack of 
suitable facilities, this training is not always utilized. 
In large towns the provision of workshops for the 
blind on the lines of the Institution for the Blind, 
Hardman Street, Liverpool, should be made ; in small 
towns and country areas the assistance afforded to 
the blind in the form of the supply of machines and 
materials for knitting, etc., should be systematized 
and extended. In most instances it will be found 
necessary to make an allowance to blind persons in 
addition to their earnings. 

The problem of the blind child is, however, it is 
necessary to add, not quite so straightforward as the 
division of children into blind and " sighted " would 
suggest. There are a considerable number of children 
who are semi-blind, who are unable to benefit from 
the education of the ordinary Elementary School, and 
yet who do not require the special methods of teaching 
used for blind children. 

These children fall into two classes, the high myopes 
and the partially blind. Children suffering from a high 
degree of myopia cannot be taught satisfactorily at 
an ordinary Elementary School on account of the very 
real risk of further lessening the already diminished 
power of vision by over-use of the eyes. Such 
children require carefully guarding from physical 
injury to the eyes and violent exercise. At the same 
time tuition at blind schools, in all of which Braille 



126 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

type is used, is unsatisfactory, the children being taught 
to read and write in a script they would never use 
after leaving school. Experience also shows that such 
children, instead of reading the Braille type with their 
hands, at every opportunity bend over (a most dangerous 
attitude for them) and read the embossed type with 
their eyes. 

All children with — 4D of myopia should be taught 
in such a class, but in the event of the number of 
places available falling below the requisite, preference 
should be given to children with the more severe 
defect, and in particular to those children in whom 
repeated examinations have proved the disease is 
progressing. 

. The class should be held at an ordinary Elementary 
School so as to enable the myopes to be taught oral 
subjects with ordinary children ; in this way a more 
adequate scheme of work can be provided. 

The utmost care should have been given to the 
design of the classroom so as to provide the best 
possible natural lighting. Blackboards, either movable 
or fixed to the walls, or a suitable substitute, and 
special desks — a combination of blackboard and table 
— are required for the teaching of subjects involving 
reading and writing. 

The child should write in a free-arm fashion ; 
manual work should play an especially large part 
in the curriculum, particularly those forms necessitating 
the minimal use of the eyesight."*^ 

* The manual work undertaken by high myopes includes 
knitting, string-bag making, coarse netting, mat-making with straw 
plait and raffia, fancy basketwork with pulp cane, bead and 
bamboo curtain making, chair-caning and bent-iron work, together 
with bold drawing in chalk on blackboards. They are debarred 
from pencil drawing requiring fine lines, and needlework. 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN 127 

A large proportion of persons who have hitherto 
been labelled blind possess some degree of sight. 
In this category are included persons suffering from 
such defects as marked corneal opacities the result 
of keratitis, ophthalmia of the newly born, congenital 
syphilis ; optic atrophy, congenital cataract, nystagmus, 
albinism, or injury involving the iris, etc., or causing 
the dislocation of the lens. 

Dr. Grimsdale considers that no child with vision 
equal to -^-^ Snellen type should be taught as a blind 
child.* The matter is one of considerable practical 
importance, as not only is the child's instruction carried 
on under more favourable circumstances, but he is less 
likely to be prejudiced in his choice of employment 
after school life, many employers, in view of the 
Employers' Liability Act, being unwilling to engage 
persons who have been taught at a Blind School. 
Yet many partially blind persons can and are earning 
their living as *' sighted " persons. 

In many areas it may be necessary to teach all 
partially blind children, including high myopes, together, 
but the educational provision for these children should 
not follow precisely the same lines as those adopted 
for high myopes. The restrictions necessary as to the 
length of the consecutive period advisable for reading 
and writing can be relaxed considerably in the case of 
the partially blind child. Further, the restriction as 
to attitude can be entirely removed ; the partially 
blind child need not be watched so closely to prevent 
bending of the head over his work. 

With the best possible natural lighting of the class- 
room the use of appropriate text-books with the largest 

* " The Exact Definition of Blindness," Harold Grimsdale, 
F.R.C.S., Proceedings of the Royal Society of Medicine^ 191 5» 
vol. viii. (Section of Ophthalmology), pp. 35-47. 



128 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

type available (double pica) should be combined ; 
oral methods of teaching must be utilized whenever 
possible. 

As regards manual work the children may be taught 
much the same subjects as those taught to high 
myopes ; drawing, however, is omitted, but needlework 
is added to the curriculum. 



The Deaf and the Partially Deaf 

Deaf children may, for educational purposes, be 
divided into those who are : — 

(i) Hard of hearing. This division includes those 
who cannot hear, with at least one ear, the forced 
whisper at a distance of 6 feet, but can hear it at 
3 feet. 

(2) Semi-deaf. Under this heading are comprised 
those children who cannot hear the forced whisper at 
a distance of 3 feet with either ear, but are able to 
hear some words spoken in an ordinary conversational 
tone. 

(3) Very deaf Among these are comprised some 
children who have lost their hearing after acquiring the 
power of speech ; these children are sometimes termed 
" semi-mute." The other children in this division are 
the ordinary {or average) deaf-mutes. 

(4) The mentally defective deaf. 

The following diagrammatic representation of the 
scheme of education required for the above classes of 
deaf children is taken from a paper * by Dr. J. Kerr 
Love. 

* " Educational Treatment of the Deaf in all the Stages from 
Impaired Hearing to the Totally Deaf," James Kerr Love, M.D., 
Transactions of the Second International Congress on School 
Hygiene (London : Royal Sanitary Institute, 1908). 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN 129 



SCHEME OF EDUCATION FOR CLASSIFIED DEAF 

60 per cent. 
25 per cent. ^ -^ > 15 per cent. 

Average Deaf Mute Mentally 



Hard-of-Hearing Semi-Deaf Semi-Deaf Oral Oral Defective 

Children. Better Cases. Worse Cases. Successes. Failures. Deaf Mutes. 






Special Classes in Hearing Special Daj' School or Oral Separate Classes of 

Schools. Residential School. Manual Alphabet (Finger 

Language) Residential School. 

Most of the children who are hard of hearing will 
require tuition in special classes consisting of lo to 
1 2 children only. Some of the semi-deaf can be taught 
with the hard-of-hearing children, but as a rule they 
require tuition in a Special Day School. 

A class for partially deaf children was started at Ackmar Road 
School in London in 1910 for 16 children varying from 7 to 14 
years of age, none of whom could hear the ordinary voice used in 
a conversational tone at a greater distance than 4 feet. 

The defect was due to suppurative disease of the middle ear in 
9 children, and to catarrhal disease of the middle ear in 7. 

Acquirement of the power of lip-reading and an increased know- 
ledge of language has enabled a certain proportion of the children 
taught at this class to return to ordinary Elementary Schools. 

Centres for partially deaf children should be held in 
an ordinary Elementary School so that as the children 
9 



130 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

progress their education can be carried out more and 
more with the ordinary school children. 

Separate classes for younger children from 7 to lo 
years of age and older children from 11 to 14 are 
advisable. 

Children with worse hearing will require tuition at a 
Special Day or Residential School. A question formerly 
of more importance than at present is whether these 
children should be taught by the oral method or by 
means of the finger language ; the oral method is now 
generally accepted as being the more suitable. It 
would appear obvious that the semi-deaf and the semi- 
mute should be educated by the oral method ; in the 
case of the average deaf mute, a persistent trial of the 
oral method should in every case be made for a year 
or two, and only given up when it becomes clear that 
there is no chance of the child responding to further 
efforts. 

The deaf have benefited from compulsory legisla- 
tion, and since the passing of the Elementary Education 
(Blind and Deaf) Act, 1893, Day and Boarding Schools 
have sprung up for them all over the country. There 
are now 30 Day Schools and 2 i Boarding Schools in 
England and Wales. In a few of the Boarding Schools 
day scholars attend also. In 19 12-13 gi'ant was 
paid by the Government on 3747 children of 7 years 
of age and over in these special institutions. The 
education of the deaf should, however, commence earlier 
than 7 years of age, that at which the Act permits 
Education Authorities to make provision for their 
education. 

In regard to the question as to where the 
deaf-mute should be taught, whether in a Day or 
Residential School, similar considerations arise as 
those noted when speaking of the blind child. 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN 131 

Regular attendance at school is essential in the 
education of the deaf, a point in favour of a residential 
institution. 

In regard to the causation of deaf-mutism, the con- 
dition is found to be congenital in approximately one- 
half of the cases in Great Britain. In the other half 
the condition has been acquired through disease early 
in life. Of such diseases, meningitis, scarlet fever, and 
measles are the principal. In many of these acquired 
cases it would not, it is true, have been possible to 
prevent the development of the deafness, but in others 
early and regular treatment would undoubtedly have 
accomplished this. The one-half of the total cases in 
which the condition is congenital would be materially 
reduced if members of such families would abstain from 
marrying. 

In 191 1 Mr. Macleod Yearsley investigated the cause of deaf- 
ness among 874 children in the London County Council's schools 
for the deaf. 

Congenital causes accounted for 44-3 % (387) ; acquired, for 54 % 
(472). 

Of the acquired causes — 
(i) Disease of the brain and its coverings (meningitis) were 

responsible for 18 % (83). 
(ii) Acute infectious disease accounted for '>,2> %> made up as 
follows : — 

Measles . . 15-6 %, or 71— The part affected being 

the middle ear in 44, 
the internal ear in 24, 
meninges in 3. 
Scarlet fever . 8*8 %, or 40— The middle ear being 

affected in 38, the in- 
ternal ear in 2. 
Diphtheria .... 14. 
Pneumonia .... 14. 
Epidemic cerebro- 
spinal meningitis 
(spotted fever) , . i. 



132 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 



In most of these cases 
the nerve of hearing 
was affected. 



Other diseases included — 
Whooping cough . 5' 
Influenza . . . 
Typhoid fever . . 
Mumps .... 
Rheumatic fever . 
(iii) Tuberculosis accounted for 2 children. Mr. Yearsley 
remarks that tuberculosis is a frequent cause of ear 
disease in very young children, and that its absence in 
schools for the deaf can only be due to the fatality of 
the disease, 
(iv) Congenital syphilis was responsible for acquired deafness, 
37 instances of which were present in the schools. 
But, he states, there are a considerable number of 
children who become affected in the last year or two 
of school life, and not being wholly deaf do not reach 
the schools for the deaf, 
(v) Primary ear disease, i.e. disease of the ear not due to 
infectious fevers, constitutional or brain disease. In- 
cluded under this heading are : — 

{a) Suppurative disease, not caused by the infectious 
disease. To render a child educationally deaf 
it must have considerable destruction of the 
middle ear or secondary implication of the 
internal ear. These cases numbered 51, or 
11*25%. The majority were due to naso- 
pharyngeal conditions, chiefly adenoids, and 
most were avoidable. 
{J}) Middle-ear catarrh numbered 41 cases, and of 
these 40, or 98 %, were due to adenoids. Every 
one of these cases should have been avoided. 
{c) Otosclerosis is a remoter consequence which does 
not usually show before adult life, but which was 
the cause of deafness in a girl of 1 1 years of age. 
(vi) Other influences causing the condition included injuries, 
such as blows, falls, etc., which accounted for 66 cases 
of deafness ; in 15 of these the deafness was due to 
meningitis following the injury, and in 5 to concussion 
of the brain. 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN 133 

Speech Defects 

The commonest speech defect is stammering (often 
termed stuttering), a functional affection resulting from 
the failure of the harmonious working of the mechanism 
concerned in the production of speech. Most stam- 
merers present a neuropathic family history ; they are 
usually nervous and shy ; imitation of another stam- 
merer is responsible in some cases for the defect, but 
a shock or fright is more frequently ascribed as the 
cause by parents. 

Boys are affected more frequently than girls, the 
proportion being approximately three to one. Stam- 
mering children comprise about i per cent, of the 
school population. 

The best treatment for such children is to detach 
them temporarily from attendance at ordinary Ele- 
mentary Schools and form small classes for them at 
a centre. 

The Berquand system for class instruction has 
produced satisfactory results. The principle upon 
which it is based is that, when singing, the afflicted 
persons do not stammer. By means of intoning, an 
approximation to singing is obtained. At the same 
time, labial, lingual, and other muscular exercises 
involved in the phonation are given, and the pupils 
are shown the position of the lips in phonation, and 
practise these positions with the aid of a mirror. The 
children are taught to speak only during expiration ; 
at the same time, by sympathy and encouragement, 
the child's confidence is carefully developed. 

The classes * generally consist of i o to 1 2 children, 

* Special classes for stammering children are held or have 
been held at Manchester, Rochdale, Oldham, Oxford, Coventry, 
Margate, Brighton, Plymouth, and Aberdare among other places. 



134 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

boys and girls being taught in the same class. Each 
course lasts about 8 to lo weeks. At Manchester, 
for example, a session is held twice daily from 9.30 
to 12 and 2.30 to 4. Breathing exercises in con- 
siderable variety are taken for about 1 5 minutes at 
the commencement of the morning session, followed 
by vocal exercises and reading. After a 1 5 minutes' 
break, arithmetic, dictation, or composition is taken, 
and handwork for the last half-hour. The afternoon 
is devoted for the most part to vocal exercises and 
reading. 

During the first week the special speech-training 
exercises are confined to the breathing exercises and 
the vocal exercises of M. Berquand. Recitation and 
reading is then introduced, and subsequently con- 
versation. 

During the first fortnight the children are required 
to refrain as much as possible from ordinary conversa- 
tion and to intone when speaking. To help to ensure 
that these directions are carried out the parents are 
asked to attend the class during the early days of 
training to hear the children going through the 
exercises. 

For children to be suitable for the class they must 
be of such an age and mental development as to be 
able to understand the significance of the treatment 
and the necessity of carrying out the rules and per- 
severing. 

It is seldom advisable to send children to these 
classes below the age of 9 or 10 years. Children with 
organic defects interfering with speech, such as enlarged 
tonsils and adenoids, or in a state of ill-health or de- 
bility, are unsuitable. 

The teacher should keep in touch with the children 
after they leave the class and arrange for further tuition 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN 135 

in those cases where necessary. Saturday morning 
classes are found to afford suitable opportunities for 
this purpose. The aim of the tuition is not merely to 
produce a transient improvement only noticeable when 
the children are speaking in the presence of the teacher 
of the class but to achieve a sustained effect on their 
everyday speech. 

The defect of speech associated with cleft palate, 
rhinolalia^ is very marked. In some of the children, 
however, in whose case the gap in the palate has been 
closed early in life, before the faculty of speech was 
acquired, speech is almost normal. 

It is useless to take special measures to correct the 
speech until the surgeon has exhausted the possibilities 
of closing the cleft. When this has been effected, 
correct articulation should be taught by the oral method 
in a class for the deaf or partially deaf. 

Lalling^ or the substitution of easy sounds for the 
more difficult, is often met with in infants' departments ; 
occasionally the substitution is made to such an extent 
that the child appears to use a language of his own 
(Jdioglossid). 

Special attention during reading and oral lessons 
will eventually cure these defects. 

The alteration of speech caused by adenoids and 
enlarged tonsils has been referred to above. 

The Physically Defective 

This term, strictly speaking, includes the groups 
already dealt with, such as the epileptic, blind, and 
deaf, but it is more convenient to use it as applying 
to children suffering from physical defects other than 
these. Until recently the term has not infrequently 
been used as synonymous with " crippled," and schools 



136 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

for the physically defective have been confined for the 
most part to crippled children. Children, however, who, 
in the words of the Act," " by reason of (mental or) 
physical defect are incapable of receiving proper benefit 
from the instruction in the ordinary public Elementary 
Schools," form a much more numerous class than that 
of " crippled " children merely. All such children, 
however, we shall deal with in a later chapter, viz. 
that on " The Open-Air Recovery School," and here we 
shall confine ourselves to crippled children proper. 

There are no available statistics as to the number of 
these children in the country. They have been put 
down as constituting about 3 in 1000 of the school 
population, but this proportion will vary within wide 
limits in different districts. 

In regard to causation tuberculosis is responsible for 
the greater number of the cases. An analysis of the 
diseases causing crippling in the case of children 
attending the London Schools for Physically Defective* 
gives the following result : — 

Tuberculosis 863 (54 per cent.) 

Infantile paralysis .... 252 

Paralysis chiefly due to injuries at 
birth or disease before birth . 131 

Progressive paralysis due to disease 
of the nervous system . . . 15 

Various deformities (including am- 
putations) 335 

1596 
Others (not cripples) . . . 545 

2141 

* The Care of Invalid Crippled Children in School^ R. C. 
Elmslie, M.S., F.R.C.S. (The School Hygiene Publishing Co. 
Ltd., 2 Charlotte Street, W.). 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN 137 

A considerable proportion of these children are 
attacked by disease before they are of school age : 
thus Dr. Elmslie found the disease started in the case 
of 72 per cent, of the children suffering from tuber- 
culosis of the spine between the ages of i and 5 years, 
while in 64 per cent, of the children suffering from 
tuberculosis of the hip the disease started between 2 
and 6 years. Similarly in the case of children suffer- 
ing from infantile paralysis, over two-thirds are 
attacked before 5 years of age. The establishment 
of Schools for Mothers and the activity of Health 
Visitors and Tuberculosis Nurses should result in 
bringing to light many of these children during the 
early stages of the disease. 

Not only must these children be known, but a con- 
siderable amount of persuasion is necessary before 
parents will submit their children to the necessary 
treatment, including operation, and persevere with the 
subsequent treatment for a sufficiently long period. 

Treatment, if persevered in for a sufficient length 
of time, will prevent the onset of deformity in many 
children affected with tuberculous disease of the spine ; 
the harm done by infantile paralysis can be consider- 
ably lessened by thorough treatment. 

Some crippled children require treatment such as 
can only be provided in an institution for a period of 
months or even years. There is no reason, in many 
cases, why the education of such children should be 
neglected, and it is usual now for arrangements to be 
made for their instruction.* These schools should be 
established and conducted on open-air principles. 

* Such schools are the residential Sanatorium Schools at Alton 
(Lord Mayor Treloar's Cripples' Hospital), Heswall (Royal 
Liverpool Country Hospital), Leasowe, and Margate (Royal Sea- 
Bathing Hospital). 



138 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

A certain number of children are suitable for 
education in a Day Special School-, in most cases the 
children will require to be conveyed by some form of 
ambulance. There are at present 57 Day Special 
Schools in different parts of the country accommoda- 
ting 4773 children, about three-quarters of whom are 
provided for by the London County Council. The 
arrangements in connection with the school should be, 
so far as practicable, in accordance with the principles 
adopted in the case of Open-Air Schools, and as the 
children have in any case to be conveyed to school, the 
site should be sufficiently removed from the centre of 
the town. 

Education of the children in their own homes should 
be looked upon as a makeshift. Until adequate pro- 
vision for cripple children is made by Education 
Authorities useful work can be done for children in 
their homes by voluntary effort. The children can at 
least be taught to read and, if physically capable, to 
write, while manual work of one kind or another will 
greatly add to the interests of their lives. Whatever 
further provision is made there will always be a few 
children for whom this home visiting will be required. 

Crippled children should have an efficient technical 
training. Even if arrangements be made (as in 
London) for placing these children in suitable situa- 
tions, either by apprenticeship or otherwise, a proper 
technical training shortens the period of apprenticeship 
and is thus economical. The organization of non- 
resident Trade Schools for crippled children is found- 
to present many difficulties. Further provision of 
resident Trade Schools on the lines of Wright's Lane 
Home for Boys, the Heritage School of Arts and 
Crafts at Chailey, and the College for elder boys at 
Alton is required to prevent these children from drift- 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN 139 

ing to the workhouse, and to enable them in part or 
wholly to support themselves. 



Children with Combined Defects 

This group, though a comparatively small one, is 
in especial need of attention. There may, of course, 
be a combination of physical defects, e.g. a cripple may 
be blind, but the children who present the greatest 
difficulty are those who combine physical with mental 
defects. 

Such children require special treatment, not merely 
for their own sakes, but on account of the distress they 
cause in the home, especially in the poorer home, and 
also on account of the serious disadvantage entailed 
by accommodating them in institutions intended for 
children with one class of defect only. 

The children with combined defects may be classified 
as follows : — 

( 1 ) Insane children^ who are also blind, deaf, crippled, 
or epileptic, or who present combinations of such 
physical defects. This group, it is obvious, must be 
dealt with primarily upon the ground of insanity, and 
there is urgent need for suitable provision for every 
member of the group. " Towards (such)," to quote a 
paragraph from the Report of the Royal Commission 
on the Care and Control of the Feeble-minded, " the 
public duty can consist of little more than supplying 
the means of medical care in a home that is more 
infirmary than school. And the numbers are so small 
that in most cases this duty would be best carried out 
by providing a small department for them in an in- 
stitution established mainly for other types of defect." 

(2) The feeble-minded blind. Children of this 
group number from 150 to 200 throughout the 



I40 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

country. Their presence in a school devoted to the 
blind of normal intelligence is a serious drawback, and 
separate provision is required for them. One such 
institution has already been established. Similarly 
the very few who combine epilepsy with blindness 
should be collected together in a separate institution, 
or department of existing institution. 

(3) The feeble-minded deaf. These are found in 
larger proportion than among the blind, and well- 
marked cases constitute probably from 5 to 10 per 
cent, of all deaf children. The education of these 
children along with those of normal intelligence is, as 
in the case of the blind, unsatisfactory, and separate 
provision should be made for them. One such school 
has already been established. 

(4) The feeble-minded cripples. These occur in a 
very considerable proportion among crippled children. 
Some of them can be adequately dealt with in the 
ordinary Cripple School, but for the most part they 
should be provided for separately and require the 
advantages of a Residential Home. 

After Care 

No account of special groups of school children 
would be complete without some reference to the 
question of After Care. Committees known as After 
Care Committees are now established in most of the 
larger centres in connection with the schools for 
mentally deficient children, and these local committees, 
while meeting in conference among themselves from 
time to time, are also linked up to the National Asso- 
ciation for Promoting the Welfare of the Feeble-minded. 
The object and scope of such committees has somewhat 
altered since the time when they were first started, and 



SPECIAL GROUPS OF CHILDREN 141 

they are now rather of the nature of " care " than 
" after care " committees. The immediate object for 
which they were established, viz. to keep an eye 
upon and to endeavour to provide work for children 
who, at the age of sixteen, left the Special Schools, has 
become by no means the most important part of their 
work. Experience has shown how limited is their 
sphere of usefulness in this direction. This change in 
the focus of the action of the After Care Committees 
has been coincidental with the fact which has become 
increasingly apparent, viz. that a feeble-minded child 
is not simply an undeveloped normal child, but that 
it is and always will be, despite any amount of training, 
specifically mentally deficient. 

In another direction these committees have been of 
the greatest service. They have proved a valuable 
educational force. By making inquiries, for example, 
into the antecedents and into the subsequent history 
of children who have been through the special schools, 
they have shown how imperative is the care and control 
of such children, and they have been largely responsible, 
by means of conferences and otherwise, for forming the 
opinion now practically universally held that for a large 
proportion of feeble-minded children permanent de- 
tention in Residential Homes is required. After Care 
Committees have also a useful function in, when 
necessary, caring for the children actually in the Special 
Schools. It is not practicable nor necessary for 
officials to do such detailed work, and actual members 
of the Education Committee have not the time at 
their disposal, even if they had the inclination, for this 
special kind of work. 

In those areas where the supervision and visita- 
tion of mental defectives is delegated by the Local 
Authority under the Mental Deficiency Act to a local 



142 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

society for assisting or supervising defectives, a linking 
up of this society and the After Care Committee of 
the local Education Committee should take place. 

After Care work is also undertaken in connection 
with the Special Schools for the Blind and Deaf and 
Crippled. All such work is of course closely allied 
to the work of Care Committees in connection with 
ordinary Elementary Schools. 



CHAPTER VIII 
THE INFANT AND THE INFANTS' SCHOOL 

Introductory — The lower age limit for school attendance — 
Physical and educational considerations — Question of infectious 
diseases — Provision required for children under 5 years of age — 
Conditions requiring fulfilment — The Nursery School — Day 
nurseries — Schools for mothers. 

IN considering special groups of school children the 
claims of the infant ^ to be considered apart from 
the older children is a very clear one. It is a claim, 
however, which in the past has been but inadequately 
recognized, and the failure to recognize it has led to 
serious consequences to the child both physically and 
mentally. The infant cannot be looked upon as a 
young adult merely. Whether viewed from the 
physical side or from the mental, the child must be 
dealt with entirely upon its own merits. The basal 
idea to keep in mind is that the adult must evolve out 
of the infant, methods of training and education being 
gradually modified as the process takes place, not that 
aims and methods applied to adults should be modified 
to suit the infant. 

The requirements of the infant and the essentials in 
its training can be arrived at by two methods : ( i ) By 
the method of actual observation of the child ; and 

* The term " infant " as used here refers to children between 
3 and 6 or 7 years of age. 



144 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

(2) by studying and following the facts in regard to 
the development of the child's brain and nervous 
system generally. The two methods, though largely 
distinct, are complementary. Any system of educa- 
tion worthy the name must be based upon these 
two methods. It is not enough to leave the 
training of the child to instinct, maternal or other. 
Common sense plays, it is true, a large part, but in 
so far as this is of value, it is based upon a study 
of the child. 

This study of the child, by active observation on the 
one hand, and from the evolutionary and developmental 
side on the other, constitutes what is referred to as 
" Child Study," a science, so far as at any rate its 
wide acceptance is concerned, of recent growth only. 
The study of the child was, it is true, never more 
brilliant than one hundred years ago and over, under 
the great masters such as Pestalozzi and Froebel. 
Still it is but recently that it has been recognized 
as the first essential in any treatment of the child, 
as the foundation upon which to build. Even now 
it is only gradually determining practical action in 
regard to the training of infants in our Elementary 
Schools. 

Perhaps at no time so much as when considering 
the problems presented by the infant shall we find it 
necessary to remember how broad is the interpretation 
which is required of the term " education." So much 
of the controversy which has centred around the sub- 
ject has been due to the fact that the term has been 
used in its restricted and, one may say, indeed, its less 
important sense only, i.e, in relation to instruction and 
equipment of the mind merely, to the acquirement of 
the power to read and write ; to " do sums " ; to stock 
the memory with certain facts able to be repeated at 



THE INFANT AND INFANTS' SCHOOL 145 

command, with perhaps but little thought as to their 
meaning or to their relation. 

Against education of this kind for the infant we may- 
well protest, and probably all are agreed that it has in 
the past worked much mischief, and has been indeed 
the very reverse of education, and instead of having 
" led out " the child, it has repressed and restrained. 
Such misunderstanding and misinterpretation of the 
word, however, must not lead us to suppose that the 
infant does not require education. At no time of life, 
indeed, is it more imperative, and it must not be left to 
chance nor to people, however well-intentioned, ignorant 
of the kind of training demanded. 



The Lower Age Limit for School 
Attendance 

With this in view, then, we shall see that the usual 
method of approaching the subject is hardly the one 
best calculated to lead to a satisfactory conclusion. 
Instead of the customary question, " At what age 
should the child first go to school ? " we should ask 
rather, " What is the kind of education required by the 
child at a given age, and where and by whom is it best 
given ? " 

The discussion, however, is complicated by the fact 
that the field is by no means clear, and the considera- 
tion of the subject is consequently prejudiced. There 
is a very large number of infants under 5 years of age 
in attendance at the Elementary Schools of the country. 
For many of these, to say nothing of the requirements 
of the older children in the Infants' School, the accom- 
modation and surroundings are in many cases unsuit- 
able, while to a large degree, both in theory and 
practice, the spirit of the Elementary School, as a place 
10 



146 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

where children are to be " taught " in the narrow 
acceptation of the word, still pervades these Babies' 
Classes. With conditions, then, such as they are, when 
the surroundings are frequently so unsatisfactory in 
regard, for instance, to air space and ventilation, where 
attention to physical requirements plays so small a 
part, where formal teaching still so largely dominates, 
it is but natural that the first question asked should be, 
" Ought not these children to be refused admission to 
school ? " Many answer this question unhesitatingly 
in the affirmative, but such an answer carries one but 
a very little distance. The subject, as we shall see, 
cannot be by any means so readily dismissed. As 
soon as we begin to consider it we find how much is 
involved — nothing short, indeed, of a reconsideration of 
the whole policy of the Infants' School. The problem, 
like so many others, though at first sight appearing to 
involve a destructive policy only, demands essentially a 
policy of construction, and one, too, which will perhaps 
be found to have ramifications not thought of in the 
first instance, influencing and modifying the whole 
course of education generally. 

Though, as mentioned above, the correct way in 
which to approach this subject is by considering in the 
first place the kind of education which the child at a 
given age requires, and then to determine where and 
by whom this should be given, we find this latter aspect 
of the question already determined for us in regard 
to all children from the age of 5 years and upwards, 
and therefore for practical purposes we may confine 
our attention for the- present to a consideration of the 
requirements of children below this age. For many of 
these it is clear no training other than that provided 
by the home is necessary, but it is equally obvious 
that for many others, more especially in the case of 



THE INFANT AND INFANTS' SCHOOL 147 

children in our large manufacturing towns, there will 
be no training at all unless special provision is made 
for them ; for these, indeed, " home training " has no 
meaning. 

The subject may be viewed from two standpoints : 
(i) the physical; (2) the educational. From the 
physical standpoint the question will need consideration 
in relation first to the general physical condition of the 
child, and secondly in relation to the infectious diseases. 
The physical condition of the child will be satisfactory 
in proportion as there are secured such essentials as 
suitable food, fresh air and exercise, and sufficient rest. 
We shall refer to these points later ; from the point of 
view now under consideration they can be secured 
theoretically equally well at home as at school. 
Practically, on the other hand, they cannot be obtained 
either in some homes or in some schools, and accord- 
ingly whether or not a child should attend school 
under 5 years of age will depend from this stand- 
point upon the relative advantages offered in a given 
case. 

Coming to the second point, we find that the health 
of the child bears distinct relation to the occurrence of 
infectious disease, and many indeed would make this 
question the predominant factor in determining the age 
at which children should be admitted to school. The 
fact may be considered in relation to the most im- 
portant of the infectious diseases from this point of 
view, viz. measles, whooping cough, scarlet fever, and 
diphthisria. 

In the case of measles the younger the child the more 
probability is there that an attack will prove fatal. This 
is especially true of infants of i or 2 years of age ; 
but as the accompanying table shows, the liability "to a 
fatal termination is considerably greater below the age 



148 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

of 5 years than above.* From this point of view, then, 
the age of attendance at school should be postponed, at 
any rate, until the age of five years, if it be granted, as it 
undoubtedly must be, that the chances of a child taking 
the disease before the age of five are greater if in 
attendance at school. 





Death-rate per 100,000 living at the age (in years) stated. 




I 


a 


3 


4 


5-10 


to-is 


Measles . 
Scarlet fever . 
Diphtheria 
Wliooping cough 


630 

42 

92 

378 


1i 

100 
144 


142 
69 

82 


91 

54 
112 

48 


22 
23 


I 

5 
9 




The same line of argument applies in the case of 
whooping cough. This is a much more fatal disease in 
babyhood than at any subsequent period, as shown in 
the table, and though the death-rate rapidly falls after 
the first year of life, nevertheless, from this standpoint, 
children should preferably not attend school before 
they are five years old, premising, as in the case of 
measles, that the liability to attack is greatly increased 
by school attendance. 

In the case .of scarlet fever the liability to attack 
increases to a maximum in the fifth year of life. The 
fatality is, however, considerably greater under the age 
of five than afterwards. The influence of school in the 

* From Table 32 of 70th Report of Registrar-General, 1907, and 
a paper entitled " Child Mortality in Relation to the Health of the 
State,* by George Newman, M.D., D.P.H., and read at the Leeds 
Health Congress, July 1909. Also the Memorandum by the 
Medical Officer of the Local Government Board on Measles states 
that the number dying from measles out of a given number attacked 
between the ages of 5 to 10 years, has been found to be only one- 
ninth of that in the third year of life. 



THE INFANT AND INFANTS' SCHOOL 149 

spread of scarlet fever is, as we shall see in a subsequent 
chapter, much less than that exercised in the case of 
measles and whooping cough ; so much so, indeed, that 
the question of scarlet fever is not of serious importance, 
from the point of view now under discussion. 

Diphtheria shows a higher fatality rate below the 
age of five than after, but it is still high at this age, and, 
as a matter of fact, from this point of view, the admission 
age should not be before six at the earliest, since attend- 
ance at school undoubtedly renders the child more liable 
to catch the disease than if it had remained at home. 

Reviewing, then, these four infectious diseases, and 
bearing in mind their serious nature in the case of young 
children, not only in regard to the risk of a fatal termina- 
tion, but also in regard to the damage they may leave 
behind them, it would seem clear that if the age of 
admission is to be ruled by this consideration only, then 
no child should be allowed to attend school before the 
age of five years. 

There are, however, two considerations which, though 
they may not actually revoke the above conclusion, 
certainly modify it to a considerable degree. 

(i) The danger of the spread of infectious disease 
in the Infants' School will vary with the opportunity 
which the school affords for a given disease to spread. 
In some schools the conditions for the spread of infection 
are as favourable as they can well be. The classes are 
large, up to even sixty babies being crowded together 
in one room, often with quite inadequate ventilation. 
In others, on the other hand, the conditions are much 
better, the classes are smaller, more floor space is 
allowed per child, and the arrangements for ventilation 
are more satisfactory. 

(2) The influence of a well-organized system of 
medical inspection must be borne in mind. Take, for 



ISO THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

instance, the case of diphtheria. The danger of this 
disease spreading in school is reduced almost to a mini- 
mum if the medical arrangements are efficient, and under 
such conditions a child runs no greater risk of contracting 
the disease when at school than if at home. Indeed, 
unless diphtheria is as efficiently controlled in the home 
as in the school, and such is usually not the case, the 
advantage actually lies with the child attending school. 
The advantage, however, of medical supervision does not 
cease here. It extends to children who have had any of 
the infectious diseases mentioned above, and who, 
through the fact that they are in attendance at school, 
can be watched, and steps taken in connection with any 
complications which may follow. Thus sore eyes or 
running ears following measles can be promptly dealt 
with in a way which, at present at any rate, would be 
impossible should the child not be in attendance at 
school. 

To sum up the question, then, from the point of view 
of the occurrence of infectious diseases, we may perhaps 
say that, judged from this standpoint only, and in view 
of the conditions at present existing in the elementary 
schools, children are better excluded from school until 
the age of five years. The necessity, however, for this 
action cannot be considered so imperative as is urged by 
many public health administrators, and certainly it cannot 
be admitted that the question of infectious disease is of 
such importance as to override all other considerations. 
It will be clear, too, that the whole argument in regard to 
such exclusion is much modified, if not, indeed, quite 
nullified, in the case of the class of children with which 
we are now more especially concerned, provided suitable 
provision is made of the character shortly to be detailed. 

Coming now to the educational advantages to be 
derived by the attendance at school of these young 



THE INFANT AND INFANTS' SCHOOL 151 

children under five years of age, we must, as already 
pointed out, be quite clear as to the sense in which we 
are using the word education. It is now universally 
accepted by educationists that formal instruction, such as 
is implied by the word " lessons," is out of place in the 
case of these infants. Unless one happens to be familiar 
with the facts, it is difficult to believe it possible that 
these small children should have been subjected to the 
extraordinary treatment they have received in the 
past. 

The practice which has obtained in the past of 
formally teaching children under five years of age such 
subjects as reading, writing, and arithmetic, is not only 
unnecessary and useless, it has been and may be pro- 
ductive of real harm to the child. Nevertheless, the 
child emphatically needs educating, and will respond 
to training in the early years of childhood in a way 
it never will at a later period. Dr. James Kerr, to 
whom we are indebted for much illumination on this 
question of the relation of the infant to the school and 
school work, has laid especial emphasis upon the years 
from three to five from an educational standpoint. The 
training, however, required is of such a character that it 
should be possible for it to be given in every home, but 
as things are to-day such is utterly impossible in a vast 
number of homes in the larger cities and towns, and from 
the educational standpoint, using this term in its true 
sense, there seems no doubt whatever that provision must 
be made for some children, at any rate, to be trained 
elsewhere than in the home at as early an age as that of 
three years. 

When, then, it is asked, " At what age should children 
be sent to school } " we must know whether the question 
means, "At what age should children receive formal 
instruction .? " or " At what age should children receive 



152 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

their training elsewhere than at home ? " Our answer 
would be to the first question, not before the age of 
six and a half to seven years, making full allowance for 
the fact that formal instruction cannot be considered 
apart from the training spoken of above. To the second 
we should reply, that the age will depend entirely upon 
the home conditions and facilities. To have to send 
children to school before the age of five is a serious 
reflection upon the home. As things are to-day, the 
majority of children of 5 years of age and upwards 
are better, from the educational point of view, speaking 
generally, at school than at home. 

Taking, then, everything into consideration, educa- 
tionists have no need to quarrel with the compulsory 
age limit of school attendance being placed at 5 
years, provided latitude is allowed in those cases where 
the needs of the child are adequately provided for in 
the home. In a more ideal state of affairs discretion 
might be given to the parent until the child is 7 
years of age, powers being given to the local Education 
Authority to compel attendance from the age of 5 
when circumstances seem to warrant such a course ; 
but this step cannot be considered practicable at 
present. 

Provision for Children under Five Years 
OF Age 

Granted, then, that children of 5 years of age and 
upwards may be suitably provided for in the ordinary 
Elementary School, we come to the question as to what 
form the provision should take for children under the 
age of 5 years. Before doing this, however, we shall 
find it advantageous to consider what are the essential 
requirements of " infants " and younger children. 



THE INFANT AND INFANTS' SCHOOL 153 

The requirements of the child are the requirements 
of each individual cell of which its body is composed. 
These cells, and especially the cells of the brain, are 
immature — are undergoing rapid change and rapid 
growth. What are the conditions determining their 
healthy functioning, and determining, in consequence, 
the development of a healthy child ? 

The first condition is adequate and suitable nourish- 
ment, a supply of wholesome, unstimulating food. 
Starve or underfeed or wrongly feed these developing 
cells, and the harm done will be to a greater or less 
degree irreparable. As conditions are to-day, this first 
essential is not obtained by numbers of children. The 
subject is treated at length in a subsequent chapter, 
but we may observe here that the arguments used for 
children remaining at school for the day apply with 
especial force in the case of the infant from many 
points of view, and from none more than from this one 
of nourishment. 

The second condition is an abundant supply of 
oxygen, which in practice, of course, means fresh air, 
and conversely, one may add, the absence of the dele- 
terious products found in impure air. 

A third condition is ample opportunity for exercise 
and 7'est. Alternation is a marked feature of child 
development, and great activity followed by a corre- 
sponding period of rest is the normal sequence of events 
in the development of the individual cell. The neglect 
of this physiological law of child development may be 
frequently observed in the methods and the manage- 
ment of the Infants' School. This is rendered par- 
ticularly obvious because such wrong activities, to some 
of which we shall draw attention later, have been 
demanded of the child, and unnecessary fatigue and 
strain have been induced, making the demand for rest all 



154 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

the more apparent. Suitable opportunity for functional 
activity is essential to the development of the brain 
cells, but they are in an immature condition only, and 
in the demands made upon them this fact should be re- 
cognized. Great danger attends the over-stimulation of 
these undeveloped cells, and if persisted in will lead to 
permanent and irreparable injury. The stimulation they 
require must vary with their degree of development, and 
be of such a nature as to assist them in their development. 
A second fact to bear in mind is that the cells of the 
brain and nervous system generally develop in sequence, 
group by group, and knowledge of this physiological 
law of development is obviously of the first importance, 
since the methods of education adopted must necessarily 
fit in with this sequence. Thus, for example, training 
is needed in the first place in regard to the elementary 
functions, and the main education of the infant lies in 
the formation of correct physical habits. Many children, 
for instance, largely untrained at home, come to school 
with dirty habits, and the right training of the lower 
nerve centres so as to form good physical habits is of 
prime importance at this stage of the child's develop- 
ment. As an important illustration, also, of this point 
may be mentioned training in the use of the pocket- 
handkerchief Infants, on account, as we have seen in 
a previous chapter, of the unhygienic conditions under 
which some of them are brought up, are very apt to 
develop adenoid growths, which may, however, be largely 
prevented if the nasal passages are kept constantly clear ; 
and children need to be trained in order to secure this. 

Then, too, the groups of nerve cells concerned with 
co-ordinated movements are developing, and in some 
infants their development is but very imperfect. Hence, 
the place for walking, running, and marching exercises. 
It is in the Infants' School where is laid the foundation 



THE INFANT AND INFANTS' SCHOOL i55 

of good carriage and poise of the body. Closely asso- 
ciated with this is the development of rhythm, to which 
the infant is particularly sensitive. To develop this 
quality is a special function of the infant teacher, and 
if the opportunity be lost in the spring of the child's 
life, it will not recur. It may be accomplished, for 
example, through music, games and physical exercises 
accompanied by music ; also, for instance, through the 
teacher's voice in reading or in the telling of stories. 

Fine muscular co-ordinations find no place in the 
curriculum of the Infants' School ; the nerve cells con- 
cerned with such actions are only immature and in 
process of development. It is for this reason that massive 
movements and large objects must form the instruments 
of education. Thus, for example, large letters and free- 
arm drawings be made on the blackboard with a 
large piece of chalk. Small letters made with a pen, 
demand fine co-ordination of muscles to guide it aright, 
and lead accordingly to nerve strain. This involves the 
undue stimulation of immature groups of nerve cells, 
the evils of which radiate out to other neighbouring 
groups, inducing fatigue — chronic fatigue — with its 
wide-spread harmful effects. Similarly, all fine work 
is contra-indicated, not primarily because of injury to 
the eyesight — that, as Dr. Kerr has especially pointed 
out, is of secondary importance — but because the effort 
involved in getting a clear vision of the object, owing 
to the immaturity in development of a child's eye, leads 
to evidence of nerve strain which overflows to other 
centres. Moreover, it necessitates close proximity of 
the eye to the object and a corresponding bending 
down of the head, contraction of the chest, and a 
cramped position of the body generally. It is for these 
reasons that the methods still often seen of teaching, 
reading and writing in the Infants' School are physio- 



156 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

logically wrong, and such criticism applies with still 
greater force to all needlework and some of the finer 
forms of kindergarten work. Work of such a character 
is, however, gradually becoming a thing of the past. 

We see, then, that all true education of the infant 
involves a curriculum and methods of education which 
will ensure a due balancing, in regard to the develop- 
ing nerve cell, of exercise and rest. But, in addition 
to this kind of rest, of comparative rest, as we may 
term it, the result of change in occupation and 
activity, absolute rest as represented by sleep is also 
demanded. 

In many schools no provision is made for this latter ; 
yet such provision is eminently desirable if not necessary, 
not only for the children under 5 years of age, but 
for the older children as well. This question is yet 
another illustration of the great advantage derived by 
children, especially infants, going to school for the day. 
Definite arrangements would then be made, such as we 
shall see in a later chapter are made at an Open-Air 
School, for a midday rest for all the children of at 
least an hour's duration. As conditions of home life 
are to-day, and in view of the comparative ignorance 
of many mothers — an ignorance by no means confined 
to the poor — the need to provide adequate rest at school 
is especially necessary. Many, probably most, children 
get insufficient sleep, and the conditions under which 
many sleep are far from making it as healthful and 
invigorating as it should be. 

Further, the early years of childhood are the most 
important of all from the point of view of training the 
senses. The influence of sense impressions, especially 
in the domain of the subconscious, of what the child 
habitually sees, hears, touches, and handles, is so great 
and permanent that any steps taken to make provision 



THE INFANT AND INFANTS' SCHOOL 157 

for infants, whether younger or older, must be deter- 
mined equally by demands in this direction as in that 
of the motor activities. What this involves will be 
seen in large measure when speaking presently of the 
Nursery School and its equipment. It forms in part 
the justification for large, airy class-rooms where 
harmony in form, colour, and all the arrangements 
prevails. It necessitates care in the choice of objects 
used for educational purposes, special preference being 
given to natural objects, and at all times to form, colour, 
and beauty. A similar care must be bestowed upon 
auditory sensations, the importance of some of which 
may seem trivial and yet may count for much, as, for 
example, the quality of the teacher's voice. 

The Nursery School 

Bearing in mind, then, the points which have been 
outlined above, we shall be in a position to consider 
what in practice should follow as the consequence, and 
since provision is already legally made for all children 
upon attaining the age of 5 years, we may confine 
our attention to children under that age. Whether the 
provision made for these children should, though sepa- 
rate, be tacked on, as it were, to the present Infants' 
School, or whether, by the setting up of separate 

» establishments, known in the past as Creches, is a 
matter of comparative unimportance. Neither the 
" Babies' Class " on the one hand, nor the Creche on 
the other, has been satisfactory in the past. They have 
neither of them, speaking generally, fulfilled the con- 
ditions demanded by the physiological laws of child 
development. The requirement seems clearly for some 
kind of Nursery Schools, and the advantages of having 
I these an integral part of the present Infants' School are 



158 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

great, whether to the local Education Authority from 
the point of view of administration and cost, or from 
that of convenience to the parents, who will very 
probably have an older child in attendance in one of 
the other departments of the school. In some districts, 
it is true, suitable arrangements could not possibly be 
made in connection with the present Infants' School, 
and it would prove necessary to establish a separate 
Nursery School in the neighbourhood. 

As to the requirements of such a Nursery School, 
we cannot do better than reproduce here those outlined 
in the Report of the Consultative Committee of the 
Board of Education. Though the description given is 
considered by the Committee to be that of an " ideal 
institution," it should be understood that the arrange- 
ment suggested, whether of the premises, or for meeting 
the physical requirements of the child, or for training it 
in good habits, or for developing its intelligence, are 
such as are in the opinion of many authorities urgently 
required in practice, and they merit careful consideration 
and study. 

" In describing the institution which the Committee 
consider to be the best alternative to the home for the 
large number of children for whom some alternative 
seems necessary, they will find it convenient to divide 
their remarks under the following heads : (a) The 
Premises ; (b) The Curriculum ; {c) The Apparatus ; 
{d) The Staff. 

" {a) The Premises. 

" The Committee consider that it would be advisable 
to have special building regulations for the premises of 
the younger infants. Without attempting themselves 
to frame any such formal regulations, they would like 
to call attention to the following points, which should 
be borne in mind in framing them : — 



THE INFANT AND INFANTS' SCHOOL 159 

" (i) Younger infants are even more dependent upon 
light, air, and sunshine than older children, and their 
premises therefore must be above reproach in these 
respects. 

" (ii) Heavy desks and galleries should never be 
used. They lend themselves to forms of instruction 
unsuitable to young children, and injurious to their 
physical development. Small tables and chairs should 
be used instead ; these can be easily put on one side to 
make more room for games and play. 

" (iii) Much more floor space should be provided for 
younger infants than is generally provided at present 
for older children. The floor itself should be of some 
substance which is easily washed, and which is not too 
cold for infants to sit and lie on. If the surface is of 
wood, it should be of a kind which does not splinter. 
All the corners where the floor joins the walls should 
be rounded, as in hospitals, to make cleaning easier and 
more thorough. 

" (iv) There should be an easy exit direct into the 
playground from any room used by the younger infants 
for play or lessons. 

" (v) The playgrounds should be partly under cover, 
so that the infants can be taken out constantly even in 
rain or hot sunshine. Where possible, the playgrounds 
should contain trees and small plots for gardens. 

" (vi) The offices and washing arrangements must be 
suitable and as complete as possible, and close attention 
should be paid to their cleanliness. It will be found 
exceedingly desirable in some districts to provide some 
simple means for giving the children baths, as is done 
in the P'rench £coles Maternelles, in many elementary 
schools all over Europe, and also in a few modern 
public Elementary Schools in England. In any case, a 
sufficiency of clean towels and soap should be provided. 



i6o THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

" (J?) The Curriculum. 

"(i) The children's natural instinct for movement 
should not be unduly checked. They should have 
plenty of games and free play in the open air whenever 
possible. 

" Cleanly habits and ready obedience should be 
secured by a discipline which is kindly, but not unduly 
repressive. 

" A careful course of training of the muscles of speech 
and of those of the limbs should be thought out and 
adopted. 

" (ii) There should be no rigid time-table. An organized 
lesson should last about fifteen minutes on an average, 
the teacher being allowed to use her discretion as to 
whether any one lesson might be shortened or prolonged. 

" The lessons should include singing, recitations, some 
of the Kindergarten gifts and games, and varied occupa- 
tions such as ball, brick building, drawing on the black- 
board, modelling in wet sand, reed and bead threading, 
rush plaiting, matching and sorting colours and shapes, 
stick laying, sand drawing, picture and conversational 
lessons, nursery rhymes, story-telling and story-acting. 

" The following occupations may here be specifically 
noted as not suitable for these infants, namely: mat 
weaving, clay modelling, tablet laying, needle threading, 
pricking and sewing cardboard, and unravelling. 

" (iii) Formal lessons in reading, writing, and arithmetic 
should be rightly excluded, and no inspection or ex- 
amination of results in such subjects allowed. 

" Nothing that requires prolonged complex operations 
of the nervous or muscular systems, such as sewing, 
knitting, or systematic drawing (other than blackboard) 
should be allowed. These involve strain, and the too 
rapid fatigue which strain produces. 

" (iv) The infants should be taken frequently into the 



THE INFANT AND INFANTS' SCHOOL i6i 

playground, and should, if possible, spend half the day 
there. 

" (v) Infants should be allowed to sleep when they are 
sleepy. It is advisable to encourage them to sleep in the 
open air under proper conditions. 

"(vi) As it is often convenient that elder boys and 
girls should escort their little brothers and sisters to 
school in the morning, and return with them in the after- 
noon, it may be found desirable in many cases to keep 
the Nursery School open during the same hours as the 
school for older scholars. There is no harm in this so 
long as the younger infants are allowed ample time for 
rest and sleep during the day. 

" (c) Apparatus. 

" (i) Light chairs and low Kindergarten tables. 

" (ii) Net-beds, or other suitable and sanitary provision 
for sleeping. 

" (iii) Blackboards fixed round the' lower part of the 
walls. (Where the blackboards are built into the walls 
they should not be recessed.) 

" (iv) Pictures, simple in design and outline, and 
brightly coloured. 

" (v) Bricks of various sizes. 

" (vi) Large sand-troughs on wheels, for planting seeds 
and flowers, making " sand-pies," shell impressions, etc., 
with a supply of small spades and buckets. 

" (vii) Pets, such as gold-fish and birds. 

" (viii) Plants, especially when grown by the infants 
themselves. 

" (ix) Swings, a rocking-horse, reins, balls, dolls, dolls' 
house, Noah's Ark, and models of animals. 

" (x) A piano. 

" (xi) Ample cupboards for toys, etc. 

" \d) The Staff. 

II 



i62 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

" (i) The Teacher 

" The Committee deprecate very strongly the idea 
which appears to be prevalent that any teacher is good 
enough for infants. They hold, on the contrary, that the 
care of these young children presents difficulties at least 
equal to those which arise in teaching the older ones, and 
that infant teachers should be selected with scrupulous 
care. 

" In the work of selection it would seem that more im- 
portance should be attached to fitness for this particular 
work than to mere academical qualifications. Probably 
the best person to have the management of the Nursery 
School will be a well-educated teacher who has been 
trained on Froebelian principles in the widest sense of 
the term. Her preparation would therefore include a 
careful study of the physical and mental development of 
childhood ; a thorough course of Nature Study, at any 
rate of the most common forms of animal and plant life, 
so that she may stimulate the children's interest and 
answer their questions intelligently ; and some study of 
literature and history from which she could select what is 
most appropriate for children in poetry and story. She 
should have such a knowledge of occupations and forms 
of hand-work as may enable her to select those which 
will best train hand and eye without making too great 
demands on little children, and she should have some 
training in the detection of physical and mental fatigue 
and in the physical conditions of young children in health 
and disease. A sympathetic and motherly instinct is an 
essential requirement in the teacher of younger infants, 
and also a bright and vigorous personality. 

" The Committee do not recommend that there should 
necessarily be a special training for the teacher in the 
Nursery School. They have rather indicated what they 



THE INFANT AND INFANTS' SCHOOL 163 

consider should be the special qualifications of all teachers 
of young children, among whom some will be found with 
special aptitude for dealing with the very little ones. 

" It may be added here that there should be no diffi- 
culty in securing that all teachers who go to a Training 
College should have every opportunity of obtaining 
instruction in the required subjects. Those, however, 
who obtain their status as teachers by passing the Board 
of Education's Certificate Examination may do so at 
present without necessarily receiving any instruction in 
one or two points that the Committee consider very 
important for all teachers. They think this defect could 
be remedied, however, without difficulty, if the Board of 
Education in their syllabus for the Certificate Examina- 
tion would make it obligatory for all teachers to show 
some knowledge of the physical conditions of young 
children in health and disease, and also of the differences 
in the educational methods of dealing with older and 
younger children respectively. 

" Coming now to the amount of staff required in a 
Nursery School, the Committee would urge very strongly 
that infants cannot be properly handled if too many are 
placed at once under the care of one teacher. No 
woman, however competent, can give proper attention to 
a class of sixty or more infants, though there are many 
schools where the attempt is made. The Committee 
consider that the number of little children under one 
teacher should never exceed thirty. 

" (ii) The School Attendant or School Help 

" In discussing the staff of the Nursery School, the 
Committee have referred so far only to the teacher. 
They have had brought before them, however, the im- 
perative necessity of attending to the personal cleanliness 
of small children at school, and for this purpose they 



i64 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

think it would b6 more suitable to provide as an 
additional member of the staff of the school a woman 
who would be a nurse or attendant rather than a teacher. 
Her duties would be various.* She would accompany 
the children to their offices and by constant care induce 
them to learn a cleanly habit, upon the vital importance 
of which it is impossible to lay too much stress. Where 
baths were provided she would wash the children who 
required it, and would in any case superintend the 
washing of their hands and faces. She would look to 
the state of their hair and clothing, and promptly call 
the attention of the teacher to any child who came to 
school in a dirty condition. By such means the 
general sensitiveness of the children to dirt would be 
aroused and strengthened, and their health, as well as 
the sanitary condition of the school generally, would be 
immensely improved. The Committee do not think 
that there would be much difficulty in securing respect- 
able women to undertake these duties. It must, how- 
ever, be understood that such an attendant is in no 
sense an alternative to the teacher, though in schools 
where the teacher is assisted by a nurse or attendant, 
the number of children allotted to the teacher might be 
slightly increased." 

The same Report contains an interesting account 
of the provision made for these young children in 
Belgium, France, Germany, and Switzerland. The fact 
that the compulsory age of school attendance in these 
countries is, at the earliest, at the completion of the sixth 
year has meant that the provision for children under that 
age has grown up, to a large extent, quite separately 
from the ordinary Elementary School system, though, as 

* See, in this connection, the note on "Femmes de Service," 
in French Scales Maternelles^ page 190, and on the same arrange- 
ment in ^t\.%\2iXi Jar dins cPEnfants, p. 149. 



THE INFANT AND INFANTS' SCHOOL 165 

the Report shov/s, there is now a tendency in some of 
the countries increasingly to link up these private or 
semi-private institutions with the State school system. 

Upon reviewing the whole subject it is clear, then, 
that the education of the infant does not require to be 
curtailed, but on the contrary developed. It is not that 
children have been sent to school when they ought not 
to have been, but that they have been wrongly dealt 
with when they got there — they have been " instructed," 
and not " educated." The importance of the education 
of the infant is, indeed, more clear to us than ever. 
In their development the brain cells have, as Miss 
Margaret McMillan picturesquely puts it, their spring, 
their summer, their autumn, their winter. If advant- 
age is not taken of the spring of their development it 
will never return, and no amount of education of the 
adult will be able to make up for this early lost oppor- 
tunity. This is especially true of sense impressions, of 
the storing of the subconscious memory, of the forma- 
tion of habit, and of some of the more subtle traits in 
character. The great problem in elementary education 
to-day is how to extend this true education, how not 
only to see that it pervades the whole Infants' School, 
but to make its influence felt throughout the whole 
school life of the child. That change, as already 
suggested, in the ideas and methods of education of 
older children will follow this remodelling of the Infants' 
School there can be no doubt. 



Day Nurseries 

Creches and Day Nurseries are now provided 
generally in the larger towns, accommodation being 
provided for little children whose mothers are unavoid- 
ably absent from home during the day. 



i66 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

A description of the arrangements at a typical 
Creche is given below : — 

At the Bristol Road Creche, Brighton, the children are brought 
by their parents at 8 o'clock, and after inspection and washing by 
the nurses in the receiving-room are dressed in a uniform frock 
and pinafore and passed into the play-room. Warm bread and 
milk is provided for children who have not had breakfast at home. 
As a rule, the children are taken out for a walk or in a basket per- 
ambulator during the morning. 

Dinner is served at 12.30 ; in the afternoon the children sleep 
in a fold on a mattress and pillows. 

After tea at 4. 15 the children play in the nurseries until called 
for. 

The mothers pay 4d. a day for one child, 3d. a day each for two 
of the same family, and 8d. for three. 

Before admission, a medical certificate is required stating that 
the child is free from any infectious or contagious disease. 

The Rules require that the mother shall be obliged to go out to 
work in order to provide for her family ; that the children shall 
come decently clean ; that they shall be fetched not later than 
8 o'clock, and that they shall be brought regularly if the mothers 
are in continuous employment. 

In Circular 879 the Board of Education calls 
attention to the necessity of watching the state of the 
children daily in order to deal promptly with any case 
of illness or possible infectious disease. Organization 
of the children's play calls for consideration. Close co- 
operation with other institutions in the neighbourhood 
dealing with infant welfare is desirable. 

Grants are paid by the Board in aid of Day 
Nurseries which provide primarily for infants and 
young children under 3 years of age, while allowing 
of the admission of children over this age if provision 
can be made for them. 

If such Nursery Schools or Day Nurseries were 
established generally it would be possible to ensure, in 
conjunction with the Schools for Mothers, the medical 



THE INFANT AND INFANTS^ SCHOOL 167 

supervision of children from birth up to the age of 
compulsory school attendance. The large number of 
defects and diseases found among children on admission 
to school shows the urgent necessity of arrangements 
for their earlier detection, prevention, and cure. Thus, 
ear discharge in a considerable proportion of children 
commences early in life, long before the child is entered 
on a school roll ; the earlier disease is treated the 
greater the prospect of cure without operation. The 
removal of enlarged tonsils and adenoids in these young 
children would in a considerable proportion prevent 
the onset of ear disease. Epilepsy, as we have seen, 
frequently commences before school age ; children 
suffering from the complaint should at once be placed 
under medical treatment ; medical supervision will also 
be necessary, the general experience being that many 
parents do not persevere with the treatment. Squint, 
to be cured without operation, must be treated as soon 
as possible after its onset, which in the large majority 
of cases occurs at an age considerably below that of 
5 years. 

Cleft palates and ruptures should be attended to as 
early as possible in life. Most of the children suffer- 
ing from infantile paralysis seen by school doctors at 
present have long passed the stage at which prevention 
of loss of power of the affected muscles is possible. 
Reference is made on page 137 to the prevention of 
crippling from infantile paralysis and tuberculous disease 
of bones and joints. Again, it is hopeless to expect 
to prevent effectively contagious skin diseases such 
as ringworm, scabies, and impetigo from occurring 
among school children if there is another child below 
school age at home suffering from the complaint not 
under treatment and constantly re-infecting those of 
school age. Hitherto the School Medical Staff has 



i68 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

not had the opportunity of assisting these children and 
persuading their parents to allow adequate treatment 
to be carried out. To secure complete and effective 
co-ordination of the arrangements for the medical care 
and supervision of children under 5 years of age with 
those made for the medical inspection and treatment 
of school children, it is necessary that they should be 
planned as a continuous whole and with due regard to 
the organization of the School Medical Service. In 
many cases indeed the same doctors and nurses 
will be responsible. As Sir George Newman well 
remarked : — 

" In the diseases incident to school life we get a 
continuance, varying in degree and extent, of those 
causes and conditions which in infancy yield our high 
infantile mortality rate and in the long-run bring about 
a degeneration of race. If in this way we take a long 
view of the matter we shall see that an improved 
physical condition of the children of the nation depends 
upon our grappling with the problem not only from 
the beginning, or in other words, with infantile mortal- 
ity as its root, but grappling with it as one problem."* 

Schools for Mothers 

Schools for Mothers, Babies' Welcomes, etc., afford 
valuable opportunities for promoting the physical 
welfare of children under school age. Originally they 
were established to afford mothers teaching, by means 
of advice, demonstrations, etc., in the proper methods 
of feeding and care of babies. The scope of the work 
has in many instances been extended so as to bring 
the young child not yet of school age under medical 
supervision. The provision of medical and surgical 
* Journal of the Royal Sanitary Institute^ vol. xxx. No. 10. 



THE INFANT AND INFANTS* SCHOOL 169 

advice and treatment is merely incidental to the 
instruction of the mother. 

Circular 852 of the Board of Education indicates 
the lines on which a School for Mothers should be 
organized. 

The instruction should be imparted in the course of 
systematic classes, home visiting, and infant consulta- 
tions. At the systematic classes the instruction should 
be afforded in the Care and Management of Infants 
and Young Children, Domestic and Personal Hygiene, 
Home Nursing, Sewing, and Cookery. 

The children will be seen by a doctor, infants not 
less than once a fortnight and young children every 
two months or so. The nurse responsible for the 
home visiting will be present at the doctor's interviews 
with the parents to ascertain the advice given and 
receive his instructions. 

Arrangements will be necessary to co-ordinate the 
work of the various institutions in the neighbourhood 
dealing with children and to prevent overlapping; 
this would be effected by the formation of a Local 
Committee consisting of representatives from each 
institution and the Medical Officers of the Local 
Education Authority and Sanitary Authority or other 
representatives. 



CHAPTER IX 

THE TREATMENT OF SCHOOL CHILDREN 

Of general physical condition — Of specific ailments and diseases 
— Existing opportunities for treatment — Conditions for effective 
treatment — The School Clinic — Inspection Clinic — Close connection 
between inspection and treatment — Peculiar advantages of School 
Clinic — Equipment — Medical staff— Treatment of specific conditions 
— Contagious skin diseases — External eye disease — Provision of 
spectacles — Squint — Adenoids and enlarged tonsils — Ear discharge 
— Enlarged glands — Defective teeth — Deformities — Heart dis- 
ease — Tuberculosis — Rickets — Anaemia — Headache — The school 
nurse. 

THE previous chapters, especially those dealing 
with the physical condition and the medical 
inspection of school children respectively, will have 
made it clear that treatment of the unsatisfactory 
conditions found must follow as a necessary corollary. 
A very little examination of the subject will show 
how broad must be our conception of what is 
involved in this term — something much more, for 
instance, than the treatment of ringworm and the 
provision of spectacles. The points which need 
consideration may be arranged under the following 
headings : — 

1. The child itself. 

2. The school surroundings of the child. 

3. The school curriculum in relation to the child. 

4. The child in relation to its home surroundings. 



TREATMENT OF SCHOOL CHILDREN 171 

We shall be concerned with only the first of the 
headings in this chapter. 

Treatment of the child may be considered from 
the point of view of (i) the general physical condition, 
and (2) specific ailments and diseases. 



Treatment of General Physical Condition 

The unsatisfactory features in the general physical 
condition, using this term widely, fall into three main 
groups, viz. the conditions as regards (a) nutrition, (b) 
cleanliness, {c) clothing. The question of the nutrition 
of children has already been discussed, and further 
attention will be given to the subject in the chapter 
dealing with the Provision of Meals for School Children. 
Similarly, that of cleanliness will be fully dealt with in 
the chapter on School Baths and Bathing. 

The question of school children's clothing is an 
extremely difficult one ; to point out, as has already 
been done, in how unsatisfactory a state the clothing 
frequently is found, is a much more easy task than to 
suggest an adequate and practical remedy. As in so 
many other directions, custom has largely blinded our 
eyes to the objectionable state of things at present 
existing. As a matter of fact, in this question of 
clothing, as in that of the cognate one of cleanliness, 
we stand, as a nation, in an unenviable position. It 
is true that there are not many children, except in the 
very poorest schools of our most crowded cities, whose 
clothing is actually verminous, though unfortunately 
the more close the examination, when the parent is 
not expecting such to be made, the more likelihood 
will there be of finding this condition present. It is 
also not merely a question of ragged, insufficient, and 
extremely dirty clothing, though such may be found 



172 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

frequently enough in the poorest schools ; it is rather 
the low standard found to obtain among large numbers 
of children in regard both to tidiness and cleanliness. 

The presence of children with clothing more or less 
dirty and ragged cannot but have a lowering effect on 
the tone of the whole school in this matter, and the 
remedy should not be looked upon simply from the 
point of view of the children immediately concerned, 
but also from that of the children in the school who 
are compelled by law to sit by others, irrespective of 
the condition of such companions. The remedy for 
this state of things will have to be sought for in more 
than one direction. There can be little doubt, how- 
ever, as social conditions are at present, that, in some 
instances, if improvement is to result, the remedy must 
be found, at least in part, at the school. For cases of 
the worse kind it is doubtful whether any satisfactory 
alternative can be found to supplying school clothing. 
We ought, at all costs, to ensure that children sit clean 
and decently dressed in school. This is not, as we 
have said, necessary only for the child concerned, 
for whom education in habits of cleanliness and in 
self-respect should come second to no other part 
of the school curriculum, but the parents of the 
children carefully looked after have an equal right to 
demand it. 

Treatment of Specific Ailments and 
Diseases 

The agencies providing treatment already in exist- 
ence, and to which it is natural in the first place to 
turn, are — 

(i) The private practitioner ; 

(2) The provident dispensaries ; 



TREATMENT OF SCHOOL CHILDREN 173 

(3) The voluntary hospitals and infirmaries, whether 

for special or general diseases ; 

(4) The Poor Law. 

With the last we need not concern ourselves. In 
regard to the first three, they should, one would think, 
amply suffice to meet all the requirements of the case ; 
but the fact that they have failed to do so in the past 
will necessitate a somewhat closer examination as to 
what these requirements are, followed by some inquiry 
as to how far these agencies may be expected to meet 
such requirements in the future. 

The main requirements are : that the children should 
receive treatment, that the treatment should be ade- 
quate, and that the arrangements for such treatment 
should fit in as satisfactorily as possible with the 
educational arrangements. In regard to the first point, 
it is well known how large is the number of children 
suffering from so-called " minor ailments " for which 
often no remedy is sought. In the earlier days of 
medical inspection not more probably than about one- 
third of the parents notified paid attention to notices 
of defects. The further opportunities now available 
for making inspection and re-inspection more thorough, 
for interviewing parents, or sending a nurse or health 
visitor to the home, and the institution of School Clinics, 
has led to a much larger number of children receiving 
attention than heretofore. 

In regard to the second point, viz. that treat- 
ment must be adequate, this involves, first, that the 
right kind of treatment shall be provided. The advice 
given and the medicine prescribed may be excellent 
as far as they go, but more efficient and drastic 
measures are often required to run concurrently, such 
as are provided in the Open-Air School, the suitable 
feeding of the child, or a visit to a convalescent home. 



174 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

Moreover, it is not enough to know that skilled advice 
and treatment on the part of the doctor is available. 
In some cases the urgent demand is for treatment, 
often daily treatment, by a nurse. 

It involves, secondly ^ that the treatment should be 
persistent. The difficulty is far from having been 
overcome, even when we have been successful in 
getting the child taken to a medical man ; for even 
then but little benefit is apt to accrue. In the case, 
for instance, of conditions needing continuous treat- 
ment, e.g. " running ears," parents often will not persevere 
in the treatment. In the case, too, of defective eye- 
sight, they may get the child's vision tested and a 
prescription given them for glasses, but they carry the 
matter no further ; either they cannot or they will not 
buy the glasses. Treatment is often, then, hy fits and 
starts, and may in consequence be of comparatively 
little avail. 

Thirdly^ it involves, as a necessity, that there shall 
be a close connecting-link between the medical in- 
spector and the doctor who treats the child. Without 
this much of the value of medical inspection will be 
lost. To know, for instance, the opinion of the doctor 
who is treating may often be essential ; it is unsatis- 
factory to have to rely solely on what the parent says 
the doctor advises in the matter, for instance, of the 
child's attendance at school. This requirement is 
especially emphasized in the case of children absent 
from school without medical certificate, or who return 
to school after illness without such certificate. A 
serious danger arises here, more particularly in relation 
to the spreading of infectious disease, such as diphtheria 
in particular, and, in less degree, of scarlet fever. This 
subject, however, will receive a more extended reference 
in a future chapter. 



TREATMENT OF SCHOOL CHILDREN 175 

In any scheme, then, for the efficient treatment of 
school children, the above points will require to be 
taken into account, and the difficulties solved, if the 
full benefit is going to be obtained from medical in- 
spection. The problem is a somewhat different one, 
according to whether we are dealing with the larger 
cities and towns or with rural areas, a difference chiefly 
due to the presence, or absence, of voluntary hospitals 
or dispensaries, especially of hospitals for, or containing 
departments for, treatment of diseases of the eye and 
ear. It will be solved in different ways in different 
places ; uniformity in methods adopted, if it ever 
comes, will only be after long experience. 

The School Clinic 

The term " School Clinic " was originally used to 
denote a place set apart for the further examination of 
school children, and in this sense has long been in use 
on the Continent. The idea that children should be 
treated at the School Clinic is of quite recent growth ; 
nevertheless, in this country the term is now generally 
used in association with the idea of treatment. 

In some areas, however, provision is niade only for 
an Inspection Clinic, no remedial measures being under- 
taken. Such an institution affords facilities for the 
further examination of certain children who cannot be 
adequately examined in school buildings ; the examina- 
tion of ailing children referred to the School Medical 
Staff by teachers ; the examination and certification of 
children excluded from school on account of infectious 
or contagious disease or illness, such as chorea, render- 
ing attendance at school harmful to the child, also of 
children suspected by school attendance officers to be 
wrongfully absent from school on alleged medical 



176 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

grounds. The Inspection Clinic should be readily 
accessible from all parts of the area : in large towns to 
fulfil this condition it will be necessary to provide Sub- 
clinics. 

For examination of the children, a quiet room to 
which street and other noises are unable to penetrate 
should be available. A waiting-room, large enough to 
seat all the parents and children waiting at one time, 
will also be required. 

As regards equipment, the chief requisites are 
apparatus enabling a fuller and more careful examina- 
tion of the eye, ear, nose, and throat to be made than 
is ordinarily possible in schools. A card-system should 
be kept so that a continuous record of each case is 
available, and to ensure that children will not be lost 
sight of through failure on their part to attend regularly. 
For full use to be made of the Inspection Clinic, 
arrangements are necessary whereby teachers and 
school attendance officers are enabled to send children 
to the Clinic. 

Inspection Clinics evidently fill a want, as shown by 
the very considerable increase in the number of children 
attending in places where they have been instituted. 
They afford a valuable opportunity of getting into 
touch with the parent, explaining to them the necessity 
for treatment of various defects, and the giving of 
advice in many matters concerned with the health of 
the child. 

Whatever opinion may be held with regard to the 
propriety of the local Education Authority making 
itself directly responsible for treatment, it must be 
admitted that it is difficult to dissociate examination 
at a School Clinic from treatment. Thus, if the Clinic 
is used, for example, for the further examination of all 
children found suffering from deafness during the 



TREATMENT OF SCHOOL CHILDREN 177 

routine medical inspection of schools, it could hardly be 
considered a practical procedure to make no arrange- 
ments for treatment in those cases, for instance, con- 
nected with ear discharge. Similarly, in regard to the 
examination of defective vision, if provision has been 
made for the detailed examination of the eyes, it is 
not satisfactory that the responsibility of the Local 
Authority should stop at the writing of a prescription 
for glasses by their medical officer. It almost neces- 
sarily follows that power should be granted to them of 
making arrangements for the provision of spectacles, 
not only that they may be granted free in necessitous 
cases, but that they may have control over the kind of 
glasses supplied, and also the price charged for them, 
and that the optician should be directly responsible to 
the Authority for the accurate execution of the pre- 
scription and fitting of the glasses. 

But, after all, the establishment of the School Clinic 
rests on the ground that it meets in so complete a 
manner the requirements for effective treatment already 
laid down, and its justification may be considered from 
the following points of view : — 

Firstly^ it ensures the treatment of defects and 
diseases in children which up to the present have been 
largely neglected. 

The conditions which may be more particularly 
enumerated are, for instance, defective vision, ear 
discharge, ringworm, sores of all kinds, such as sore 
head, impetigo, itch, sore eyes and eyelids. It ensures 
treatment of these because it lays itself out for the 
purpose, its concern being to see that the child is cured 
as quickly as possible, not only for the sake of the 
child's physical health, but also for the sake of the 
other children in the school, and of the school attend- 
ance of the child. It is, indeed, to the interest of the 
12 



178 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

Education Authority to see that every child is treated, 
and the medical man approaches the question from a 
school point of view, and accordingly takes an interest 
in " uninteresting cases." 

Secondly y the School Clinic being in close relationship 
with the school attendance department, the necessary 
machinery can be brought to bear to ensure, at any 
rate in the vast majority of cases, that no child suffer- 
ing from such conditions as mentioned is left untreated, 
and, the child being once under treatment, the 
necessary steps can be taken to ensure regularity of 
attendance. Thus, should the child not be brought, a 
more peremptory notice may be sent, or the attendance 
officer may call, or the school nurse may go round to 
the home. The services of head teachers also have 
been found invaluable in ensuring regular attendance 
at the Clinic. This end is further secured by the 
fact that the parent is given to understand what will 
be the consequences of neglecting the child. Indeed, 
so far as concerns the physical defects and diseases 
mentioned, the School Clinic reduces the possibility of 
parental neglect to a minimum. 

Thirdly, besides the necessary medical attention, the 
School Clinic provides what in some cases is more 
important still, viz. daily attention by a nurse. 
Children suffering, for example, from " running ears " 
often derive but little benefit from a fortnightly or even 
weekly attendance at the hospital or dispensary, even 
though the mother attempts to carry out the daily 
cleansing of the ear herself. This is seldom effectively 
done, and treatment by the nurse as often as seems 
required is essential. With the machinery of the 
Education Authority at the back of the School Clinic, 
this regular attendance can be largely secured. 

Fourthly, a great advantage accrues from the fact 



TREATMENT OF SCHOOL CHILDREN 179 

that the authority responsible for the treatment is in 
close connection with the schools. The teacher, if the 
child be attending the school, can be notified when the 
child has to present itself at the Clinic, and can assist 
in seeing that the child attends ; further, a certificate 
showing that the child attended at the Clinic will enable 
the teacher to mark the child as " present " at school, 
subject to the minimum period of two hours being 
spent either at the Clinic or at the school. 

Fifthly, the School Clinic presents an important 
advantage in another and quite different direction. It 
greatly adds to the interest of the work of the School 
Medical Service. The monotony of mere inspection is 
relieved, and not only will the work of inspection be 
better done, on account of the added interest provided 
by the carrying out of treatment, but it means, too, 
that more efficient and capable men and women will 
be drawn into the School Medical Service. 



Equipment of the School Clinic 

No elaborate equipment is necessary in order to 
carry out the treatment of such conditions as have 
already been mentioned. Naturally the accommoda- 
tion required will depend upon the number of children 
to be dealt with and the nature of the ailments 
treated. The following, at any rate, would appear to 
be required : — 

{a) Suitable waiting-room accommodation. This is 
very important, and in addition to a large room for 
general purposes, one or two smaller rooms should be 
provided. These are required for children who attend 
the Clinic for examination after infectious disease ; or 
for " contacts," in the case of diphtheria, who attend to 
have a " swab " taken of the throat. 



i8o THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

{b) A small consulting-room for each medical 
officer. 

(c) A treatment room where " running ears " can be 
treated, eyes bathed, sores dressed, ointment rubbed 
into ringworm, etc. 

{d) A room about 20 feet long fitted up with the 
needful requisites for vision testing. The vision room 
can, of course, be used for more general purposes 
also. 

(e) Accommodation for dental treatment. 

In addition to an operating-room a small rinsing- 
room is required : this can also be used for children 
recovering from the administration of a general 
anaesthetic. 

A small room fitted for the cultivation and examina- 
tion of bacteriological specimens, etc., is eminently 
desirable. 

If X-ray photographs of the chest for the diagnosis 
of pulmonary tuberculosis are taken, arrangements for 
their development are necessary — this involves the 
provision of a small dark-room. 

If the removal of enlarged tonsils and adenoids be 
undertaken, a small operating-room is required, together 
with a recovery room containing about 10 beds. 

When the treatment of deformities by remedial 
exercises is undertaken, a room is necessary for this 
purpose. 

The cleansing of verminous children requires a bath- 
room and room for undressing, etc. 

A room for the clerks and another for the nurses 
are requisite. 

The arrangement of the proposed School Medical 
Department at Sheffield * is described shortly below : — 

* The population of the city of Sheffield is about 480,000, and 
the school population 85,000. 



TREATMENT OF SCHOOL CHILDREN i8i 



^J^r^ 




1 82 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

In the basement are situated the stores, heating apparatus, 
lavatories, and bathing installation. The plans of the ground and 
first floors are shown in Figs. 8 and 9. The waiting-room on 
the ground floor is intended for 200 parents and children. The 
two consulting-rooms for the Assistant School Medical Officers are 
intended primarily for Inspection Clinics. 

The self-contained block for the examination of children sus- 
pected of infectious disease at the south-eastern corner is entirely 
shut off from the rest of the building, being provided with a 
separate entrance. 

On the first floor are treatment rooms for the ophthalmic and 
aural surgeons ; also two dental treatment rooms with corresponding 
adjoining rooms for the use of children after treatment. Each dental 
treatment room is provided with a separate entrance and exit ; this is 
partly for the purpose of ensuring that children about to be treated 
shall not be alarmed by seeing those who have justreceived treatment. 
At the back of the consulting-rooms is figured the sky-light of the 
waiting-room, on the ground floor. 

On the second floor is temporary accommodation for the nurses, 
comprised af a common room and a private room for the superin- 
tendent nurse. A large room is provided for committee meetings, 
lectures, etc., also two additional consulting-rooms for the School 
Medical Officers, while the east end affords living accommodation 
for the caretaker. On this floor provision is made in the future 
extension for an operating theatre, to be used for the removal of 
tonsils and adenoids, when the temporary accommodation for the 
nurses would be used as a nurse's bedroom and a ward for such 
children considered advisable to retain for the night after the 
operation 

Finally, we desire to emphasize the advisability of 
the building in which the School Ch'nic is situated 
forming part of that in which the Public Health 
Department, Tuberculosis Dispensary, and Chief Infant 
Welfare Centre are housed. Without this physical 
advantage, intimate co-operation of the working of the 
departments dealing with the health of the children 
will not be so readily secured. 

The character of the medical staff of the School 
Clinics throughout the country varies to a considerable 



TREATMENT OF SCHOOL CHILDREN 183 



¥ 




1 84 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

extent. At Sheffield, for instance, the ophthalmic, ear, 
and skin departments of the School Clinic are under 
the charge of separate part-time specialists : the prin- 
ciple is carried so far that a proportion of the ordinary 
routine medical inspection is carried out by part-time 
doctors engaged in consultant practice. On the other 
hand, in at least one area the whole of the specialist 
work is carried out by the whole-time School Medical 
Staff. In several areas, such as the counties of 
Durham, Somerset, and Derbyshire, whole - time 
ophthalmic surgeons are employed, while at Birming- 
ham a part-time specialist acts as consultant to the 
Assistant School Medical Officers, who perform the bulk 
of the work and refer difficult cases to the Ophthal- 
mic Surgeon. Again, the London Treatment Centres 
are staffed by part-time general practitioners. The 
arguments in favour of the treatment of defective 
school children being carried out by the doctors who 
inspect the school children are stated very clearly by 
Dr. Poul Hertz :*— 

" In some of the towns the medical officer and his assistants act 
as Clinic doctors, carry out the examinations and prescribe the 
treatment ; of course, special training is then demanded of the 
applicants. But in other places specialists are appointed to do 
the Clinic work. The former arrangement possesses, in my opinion, 
all the advantages and is of greater value, because the medical 
officer in most cases has examined the children in the school before 
he sends them to the Clinic and sees them there. He knows the 
teacher's opinion of the child, is informed at first hand as to how 
far the debility has affected the child's ability in the school ; the 
treatment will be a continuation of the examination in the school, 
and, the treatment ended, he can follow up the child in its after 

* " A Foreigner's View of the Treatment of Ailing School 
Children in England and Scotland," Poul Hertz, M.D., Municipal 
School Doctor, Copenhagen, School Hygiene^ p. iii, August, 
1915. 



TREATMENT OF SCHOOL CHILDREN 185 

school-life. Besides, the clinical work changes the examination in 
the school, which in course of time becomes tiring and tedious, into 
one full of real medical interest. His work in the school gives him 
a pedagogical insight that serves him in the judgment of the cases 
he treats. On the contrary, the specialist in the CHnic sees the 
diseased children only in the Clinic and has no connection at all 
with the school." 

There are, of course, conditions which require treat- 
ment of a character not attainable in any School Clinic 
as at present organized. Such, for example, are cases 
of hernia for which radical cure is indicated, ear disease 
necessitating a mastoid operation, extreme rickets 
requiring operative procedure. For these and similar 
conditions existing facilities must be utilized. 

In London use is made both of voluntary hospitals 
and treatment centres, virtually School Clinics. 

Provision is made for the treatment of 27,000 
children at 1 3 hospitals, and 80,000 children at 33 
other forms of institutions.* The scheme provides for 
the treatment of defective vision, at 21 centres ; of 
diseases of the ear, nose,- and throat, at 20 centres ; of 
ringworm, at 13 centres; of defective teeth, at 29 
centres ; and of " minor ailments," at 27 centres. 

The authorities of all hospitals or centres reserve 
the right to refuse cases if they consider that the 
parents are able to pay for private treatment in some 
of the institutions ; inquiry is made of the parents as 
to their means. At the hospitals the children are 
treated by surgeons specially appointed to deal with 
the children referred by the School Medical Staff. 

Special arrangements are made to separate the chil- 
dren while waiting or during treatment from the other 
patients. The risk of contracting infectious disease 

* The average number of children attending public Elementary 
Schools in London in 1912-13 was 645,342, 



1 86 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

and the period of waiting are thereby lessened. At 
the London Hospital, for example, co-ordination with 
the staff of the School Medical Service is established 
by means of notes of special cases sent by the latter to 
the medical staff of the hospital on the one hand, and 
by the medical staff supplying notes of the work done 
by them on the other. 

The recent extensions of the scheme have been 
chiefly in the direction of increasing the number of 
treatment centres rather than extending the scope of 
hospital work, experience having shown that the 
treatment centres established by the Council possess 
greater elasticity than a hospital, and lend themselves 
in some respects more readily to the needs of the 
Education Authority.* 

Passing from the consideration of the general 
arrangements for treatment, we may now consider the 
treatment of particular diseases. 

I. Contagious Diseases of the Skin : — 

Impetigo (contagious sores) is the most common 

* Payment is made on the basis of 50/. per annum for each 
doctor, surgeon, or anaesthetist employed on one half-day a week, 
and/r^ rata for every half-day so worked. In addition, a capita- 
tion payment is made to the institution of is. for each major ail- 
ment treated in respect of defects of the eye, ear, nose, and throat, 
and 75. for the X-ray treatment of ringworm. In the older dental 
centres, where the initial expense of establishment has to some 
extent been met, the capitation fee is i^. for all cases treated 
during the year in excess of 1000 ; the half-time services of a 
dentist are paid at a rate not exceeding 200/. a year. 

When nursing associations afford assistance in the treatment of 
minor ailments 100/. is paid for the equivalent of the whole-time 
services of a nurse. 

Upon the establishment of a new centre, the London County 
Council makes a grant of 100/. for equipment for the purposes of 
medical treatment, 50/. for dental treatment, and 75/. for X-ray 
apparatus, but all material purchased under these grants remains 
the property of the Council. 



TREATMENT OF SCHOOL CHILDREN 187 

form of skin disease among children ; if neglected, the 
disease not only continues indefinitely, giving rise to 
an unsightly condition, but is also liable to spread to 
other children. After the scabs have been removed 
by soaking with olive oil, the continuous application of 
lint spread with white precipitate ointment rapidly 
brings about a cure. When the scalp is affected, the 
hair must be cut away from around the sores. 

Ringworm is eminently a disease for treatment at 
the School Clinic ; short of this, persistent and effective 
treatment is difficult to ensure. The average duration 
of treatment by drugs of ringworm of the scalp is 
about 7 to 8 months ; it may vary from a few months 
to several years. Ringworm of the skin is a much less 
serious affair, and is readily cured. Attendance at 
school with either form of ringworm, provided suitable 
precautions be taken, does not appear to spread the 
disease ; such attendance facilitates the systematic 
treatment at the School Clinic, and ensures the carry- 
ing out of precautions preventing spread. 

The treatment of ringworm of the scalp by 
X-rays is now gradually replacing the older methods ; 
with the newer forms of apparatus, the danger of 
giving an excessive dose and producing permanent 
baldness is reduced to an almost negligible minimum ; 
the possibility of injury to the brain is chimerical. 

The following is a brief outline of the procedure : — 
(i) The hair is removed by hair-clippers from the area of the 
scalp to be exposed to the rays ; it is always preferable to remove 
the whole of the hair, lest any small areas infected with ringworm 
are overlooked. 

(ii) In most of the children it will be found necessary to expose 
the whole of the scalp to the action of the rays. The Kienbock- 
Adamson method is usually employed ; the principle of this method 
being the application of the rays at five centres so selected that a 
uniform distribution of the rays over the whole of the hairy scalp is 



1 88 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

ensured. For use in the children in whom the disease is obviously 
limited to one or two patches, leaden glass tubes of various sizes are 
used which limit the action of the rays to the surface covered by 
the mouth of the tube. The time taken for each exposure depends 
upon the " hardness " or " softness " of the X-ray tube, but averages 
lo to 12 minutes ; all the five exposures are usually made at one 
sitting. 

(iii) After exposure to the rays, the head should be washed 
with soap and water at least three times a week. The hair as a 
rule falls out about three weeks after the application of the rays ; 
as the hair still contains the living fungus and can give rise to 
the disease in others, the scattering of the hair should be prevented 
by the use of a suitable ointment. An ointment containing 
30 grains of sulphur and 10 grains of salicylic acid is useful for 
this purpose. Other precautions include the wearing of linen caps, 
which must be frequently changed and boiled ; the use of a 
separate towel, flannel, etc., by the child ; and, especially, sleeping 
in a separate bed. 

(iv) The removal of the hair is effected by rubbing the scalp 
with a rough towel after washing with soap and water ; the towel 
should, of course, be reserved for the purpose. 

The children should attend at the Clinic about three weeks after 
the application of the rays, so that the removal of the hair may 
be supervised. 

In a favourable case the scalp will be freed from the old hair 
in about four weeks after exposure ; a new crop of hair of ordinary 
length has usually grown by the end of three or four months after 
the application of the rays. 

A good deal of experience is necessary before 
systematically satisfactory results can be obtained. In 
spite of the fact that the more modern X-ray apparatus 
measures the dose of the rays given with much ap- 
parent precision, the effect of the same dose varies 
greatly on different children, and curiously inexplicable 
results are occasionally obtained. In the case of a 
few children, at most one out of every ten so treated, 
it will be found that epilation does not take place ; 
another exposure to the rays may be necessary. This 
should not be made until at least two months after the 



TREATMENT OF SCHOOL CHILDREN 189 

first exposure. It is noteworthy, however, that some 
of these cases, treated with some such ointment as 
suggested above, become cured in the interval, and 
with a rapidity which would have been impossible 
had the ringworm not been exposed to X-rays. Thus 
it will be seen that, compared with the older methods 
of treatment, a great saving of time is effected, with 
a corresponding diminution of the period in which the 
child remains in an infectious condition and able to pass 
on the disease to other children. 

The most satisfactory method of treating scabies 
among school children is the use of the hot bath and 
sulphur soap at the School Clinic, under the super- 
vision of the school nurse or bath attendant. After 
the surface layers of the skin have been thoroughly 
soaked by the hot water, the nurse should see that the 
children scrub themselves well with a suitable brush 
and sulphur soap. While the child is in the bath the 
disinfection of the underclothing by a steam disinfector 
provided for the purpose should be carried out. When 
a bath is not available, large bowls may be used for the 
purpose, provided the disease is confined to the hands 
and arms. When the treatment is limited to providing 
sulphur ointment to be used at home, the child, although 
cure may eventually be effected, has usually to be kept 
away from school for several weeks, and in neglected 
cases for as long as six months or even longer. 

For the treatment of verminous conditions among 
school children, the provision of a cleansing station 
is necessary. The essential requirements are a room 
fitted with a bath with hot-water supply, and a dis- 
infector to destroy the vermin on the children's 
clothing. 

2. External Eye Diseases : — 

Conjunctivitis in its various forms yields more or 



I90 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

less readily to treatment by school nurses at a School 
Clinic. If the bathing of the eyes and the application 
of the ointment is left entirely to the parent, the 
duration of the disease is, as a rule, very considerably 
prolonged. 

Marginal blepharitis in its slighter form does not 
require prolonged treatment, but the severe form is 
one of the most obstinate of conditions to treat (see 
P- 42). 

Keratitis in its milder degrees can usually be 
treated efficiently at a School Clinic, but if the child 
fails to respond to treatment while living under his 
ordinary home conditions, hospital treatment as an 
in-patient is necessary. 

3. Many Education Authorities have made arrange- 
ments for the provision of spectacles \ the examination 
of the child to determine the kind of spectacles 
required is carried out by hospitals voluntarily ; 
specialists have been appointed and paid for the 
purpose. Where members of the ordinary School 
Medical Staff have had the necessary experience and 
sufficient time is available, it is, especially in county 
areas, an advantage to arrange for such work to be 
carried out by them. 

The procedure commonly in force is as follows : — 

The parents of the children are provided with 
atropin ointment (4 grains to the ounce) and given 
detailed instructions as to its use. The eyes are 
examined when fully under the influence of the 
atropin ; at a subsequent visit, — usually at the end of a 
fortnight, when the effect of the drug has worn off, — 
the vision is tested with trial lenses, and suitable 
spectacles prescribed. 

Many Education Authorities make arrangements 
for the purchase of spectacles, thus enabling ' the 



TREATMENT OF SCHOOL CHILDREN 191 

parents to obtain the spectacles at contract prices. 
When necessary the spectacles are supplied free 
of cost. 

Arrangements should also be made for the repair 
of spectacles at a low rate, or even free of charge. 

Subsequent re-examination of the children for 
whom spectacles have been prescribed is necessary 
from time to time : not only do the children outgrow 
their spectacle frames, but alteration in the lenses is 
required as the child grows older. 

4. The cure of squint by appropriate methods 
short of operation should be undertaken by Education 
Committees wherever suitable facilities exist. 

When the squint is only present at times (a 
periodic squint) the wearing of suitable spectacles alone 
is often efficacious, but in many children with squints 
some further measure is necessary. Such measures 
include the shading of the eye with better vision, 
so that the use of the defective eye by the child 
becomes compulsory. 

In some instances children with considerable 
impairment of vision of the defective eye will rapidly 
accommodate themselves to the altered circumstances, 
and after a day or so will be able to see well enough 
to manage for themselves in spite of cutting off the 
use of the eye with better vision. 

A pad should be used to shade the eye, and should 
be worn continuously ; its use in some cases will be 
required for as long as 8 to 9 months for at least some 
part of the day. When possible, the amblyoscope 
should be employed to train the power of combination 
of the image or effect produced by objects in the 
two eyes. 

The amblyoscope consists of two small telescopes placed side 
by side and fastened together. They are bent away from one 



192 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

another at the farther end. When in use a different picture is 
placed in the slot at the farther end of each telescope. At the 
commencement of the treatment, a picture slide, for example, a 
clock-face, is placed at the distant end of one telescope and a 
picture slide with the hour and minute hands in position at the 
end of the other telescope ; when the child looking through the 
telescopes with both eyes sees the hands on the clock-face, he 
has learnt to use both eyes together. During the second stage 
of the treatment, picture slides are used with part of the drawing 
omitted in one picture and a different part omitted in another 
picture. When such pictures are looked at through the telescopes 
and the child sees a complete picture, he has learnt to combine 
the images seen in both eyes. During the final stage, the pictures 
used consist of designs which should appear solid when looked at 
with both eyes, for instance, a bucket is so drawn that the child 
should be able to tell the doctor whether he is looking into a 
bucket or the bucket is standing bottom upwards ; when this 
result is obtained the child possesses the sense of perspective. 

With an intelligent child a course of about twelve lessons, each 
lasting an hour, will often suffice to effect a marked improvement. 

If these measures fail, after the child has reached 7 or 8 
years of age, operation is necessary. 

5. Adenoids and enlarged tonsils require treatment in 
accordance with the degree of the defect. Tonsils, for 
instance, only require removal where large enough to 
produce symptoms; each case of adenoids must be 
judged on its own merits. There are many children 
met with in school for whom no kind of treatment 
other than operative will be of the slightest avail ; their 
day has gone by for milder measures. In other cases, 
however, hygienic measures must be tried. This means 
that the diet, which is often faulty in the case of these 
children, must be rectified, and every endeavour also 
made to get the parent to understand the necessity of 
fresh air, especially at night-time. Breathing exercises 
should be regularly practised. Such children, as far 
as possible, should be sent to an Open-Air School. 
All these children need to be kept under careful observa- 



TREATMENT OF SCHOOL CHILDREN 193 

tion, and with a thorough system of medical inspection 
this is now possible. And not only do the children 
need watching from the point of view of operative 
treatment, but still more do they require to be watched 
after operative treatment. Whenever possible, children 
who have been operated upon should be sent for three 
weeks to a convalescent home, preferably by the sea, 
and careful attention should be paid to hygienic treat- 
ment if full benefit is to follow the operation, and daily 
attention should be given to breathing exercises. It 
would be greatly to the advantage, moreover, of all 
children operated upon for adenoids if they could, 
subsequent to the operation, spend at any rate a month 
at the Open-Air School. 

6. Ear discharge requires regular and persistent treat- 
ment. As we have already seen, untreated the disease 
may be a very serious one, while to regular treatment, 
consisting of the daily cleansing of the diseased parts, 
the vast majority of the cases will respond. In a very 
small proportion only is operative treatment necessary, 
and this only, as a rule, because treatment in the early 
stages has been neglected. It need hardly be said that 
the treatment would be greatly facilitated were the 
child able to attend an Open-Air School, where pro- 
vision was made for daily syringing. 

7. Only in a relatively few instances are operations 
to remove enlarged lymphatic glands necessary ; such 
instances arise when the enlargement is due to tuber- 
culosis and the measures indicated below fail, or when 
" matter " forms in the glands. The removal of enlarged 
tonsils or adenoids is followed by diminution in the size 
of the lymphatic glands in the neck. 

In the vast majority of cases treatment along three 
main lines is required : ( i ) Open air ; these children 
are those for whom the Open-Air School is par excel- 
13 



194 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

lence indicated. (2) Suitable nourishment ; they need 
sufficient but unstimulating diet, in which fat, in the 
shape of milk and butter, is well represented. (3) Cod- 
liver oil, though this will not be found so necessary 
where the two first conditions can be fulfilled. 

8. Defective teeth. Until the institution of routine 
medical inspection the treatment of the defective teeth 
of the Elementary School population was almost entirely 
neglected. Provision for effective dental treatment has 
now been made by 130 Local Education Authorities. 

The aim of dental treatment of school children is 
above all to prevent decay of the permanent teeth. To 
effect this, examination by a qualified dentist of the 
teeth at the age when decay of the permanent teeth 
first appear, is requisite ; this must be followed by 
immediate appropriate treatment and re-examination 
of the children treated at regular intervals. At the 
same time, steps must be taken to promote the natural 
and artificial cleansing of the teeth ; to this end, parents 
must be advised as to proper dietary for their children 
and the need of regular and thorough use of the tooth- 
brush. Experience has shown that a School Dental 
Clinic is the only way in which this form of treatment 
is likely to be grappled with in the large centres of 
population. 

The working of a Dental Clinic is as follows : — 

The dentist visits the Infants' Departments and 
inspects the children's teeth. The parents whose 
children require dental treatment are notified and their 
consent to treatment requested : those acceding are 
given appointments, and as much treatment as advisable 
is carried out at the one visit. If further treatment is 
required, another appointment is made. Parents refus- 
ing to allow treatment or failing to bring their children 
to the Clinic are visited and persuaded by Care-workers 



TREATMENT OF SCHOOL CHILDREN 195 

and others. The children whose treatment was com- 
pleted when in attendance at the Infants' School or 
Department after a lapse of a definite period (one or 
two years) are required to attend at the Clinic for 
re-inspection, when the relatively small amount of 
treatment required, if any, is carried out. 

The aim of a school dentist is to deal with a 
limited number of children whose dental condition can 
be inspected and treated throughout the whole of their 
school life, rather than to treat a larger number of 
children inadequately. 

The treatment carried out at the Dental Clinic will 
comprise — 

(i) Preservation of decayed teeth by means of 
fillings. 

(2) Extraction of teeth too far decayed to permit 
of their being saved. 

(3) Cleansing of the mouth in cases where septic 
conditions are present. 

Local anaesthetics or a general anaesthetic such as 
nitrous oxide gas are administered when considered 
advisable. 

As an example of the amount and nature of the 
work possible at a School Dental Clinic the facts 
relating to the borough of Cambridge are given 
below : — 

In the course of the year 1914, 5399 children were inspected 
and 3360 treated ; this work was carried out by 2 whole-time school 
dentists. 

Of the children treated, 1026 required fillings only, 881 fillings 
and extractions, and 1453 extractions only. The number of attend- 
ances for fillings was 2291, for extractions 1722. Only 26 children 
required merely treatment of temporary teeth with nitrate of silver 
to arrest the decay ; this treatment was, however, afforded to many 
children who also required fillings, extractions, or both. No 
temporary teeth were filled during the year 19 14, silver nitrate 



196 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

treatment alone being afforded. 382 children sought advice with- 
out appointment for toothache ; all school-children suffering from 
the complaint are permitted to attend the Dental Clinic for treat- 
ment. In all, 4501 fillings, 4075 extractions (3942 of which were of 
temporary teeth), and 1005 sundry operations (including 947 treat- 
ments of teeth with nitrate of silver) were effected. 
• The exact number of teeth filled was 3991 ; many upper molars 
required two fillings, one in each fissure on the crown. Of the 
fillings, 3450 were of amalgam alone, 918 of amalgam and cement, 
31 of cement alone ; 102 required root canal treatment in addition 
to the filling of amalgam. 

The parents in Cambridge are becoming more 
willing to allow their children's teeth to be treated. 
In 1909 the percentage of parents refusing treatment 
for their children was 295 ; the number has gradually 
decreased until in 191 3 only 12*7 of the parents were 
unwilling to allow of dental treatment being under- 
taken. 

The campaign in regard to prevention must be 
carried on both in the home and in the school. If 
prevention is to be effective, it must begin before the 
child is of school age. 

A great opportunity is presented by the visits of 
the Health Visitor, who, though she may be visiting 
chiefly in connection with the arrangements made by 
the Health Committee for Infant Care, can do much to 
train the mother to recognize the importance to her 
children of this branch of personal hygiene. When 
the duties of Health Visitor are combined with those 
of a School Nurse this matter becomes automatically 
part of her duties. 

The simple Health Talks given by the Health 
Visitor at the Schools for Mothers should include 
advice as to the care of the teeth. 

Short addresses or lantern lectures given by the 
School Dentist at mothers' meetings or at the time of 



TREATMENT OF SCHOOL CHILDREN 197 

dental inspection at the schools are valuable means of 
educating parents. 

At the school, the teacher should urge the necessity 
of the daily brushing of the teeth ; the lessons on 
hygiene should include practical demonstrations on 
the correct manner of using the tooth-brush. 

The need of persistent efforts to Inculcate the use of the tooth- 
brush is shown by the results of an inquiry in 19 12 at Cambridge, 
where dental treatment for school children had been afforded for 
over five years. Out of 1707 children questioned, 960 stated that 
they used a tooth-brush ; of this number 732 used the brush 
insufficiently : thus only about 12 per cent, of the children cleaned 
their teeth properly. 

Tooth-brush clubs should be formed, especially in 
Infant Schools, to supply tooth-brushes and tooth- 
powder to the children at wholesale prices ; if considered 
advisable, some arrangement might be made to supply 
these articles free of cost to certain necessitous 
children. 

9. Deformities^ etc. In most schools of any size 
will be found a certain number of children of defective 
physique associated with insufficient development and 
lack of tone of the muscular system, resulting in the 
presence of such defects as narrow chests, deficient 
chest expansion, flat chests, stooping shoulders, fiat-feet, 
etc. In the schools of the poorer quarters of a town, 
a considerable proportion of the scholars may present 
such defects. As we have seen, certain of the exercises of 
the Syllabus are corrective in nature : they are eminently 
suitable for such children. Arrangement should 
be made for a daily lesson lasting from three-quarters 
to one hour, given by a Superintendent of Physical 
Exercises or a class teacher acting under his directions : 
this class should not consist of more than 20 to 25 
children ; the course should last for about three months. 



198 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

The children composing the class should be selected 
by the School Medical Staff. It is essential that the 
children should be adequately fed ; any necessitous 
children in the class should be recommended for free 
meals. 

A much smaller number of children will be found 
to be suffering from lateral curvature. 

Suitable desks and seats and attention to hygienic 
methods in education from the Infant School upward 
will do much to prevent this defect. 

For the children with lateral curvature special 
provision should be made in the shape of a prolonged 
course of special exercises carried out under the 
supervision of the School Medical Staff. These 
exercises should be given to a class of not more than 
six children ; the teacher must be adequately trained 
in this branch of work.* 

In the rare instances where a severe degree of 
lateral curvature is present, treatment can only be 
undertaken at the orthopaedic department of a 
hospital. 

10. General Diseases. 

Turning now to diseases affecting the whole of the 
body, when the heart has been attacked prolonged 
treatment by rest may obliterate any effect of the 
disease and lead to a complete cure. Provision of 
special homes for such prolonged treatment is urgently 
required. 

The treatment of irreparable heart disease consists 
chiefly of the avoidance of excitement, stress, and 
excessive physical exercise. 

Children suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis can 
either be dealt with in Open- Air Schools (see p. 258) 

* Work of this character is being or has been carried out at 
Sheffield, Bradford, Plymouth, and Brighton. 



If 

\ 



TREATMENT OF SCHOOL CHILDREN 199 

or open-air hospitals according to the form and stage 
of the disease. 

Education, especially in the form of graduated 
exercise, is both permissible and desirable. Instruction 
in gardening, carpentry, games, and physical exercises 
can be welded into a system of graduated exercise, a 
form of medical treatment which has been found of 
considerable service to tuberculous persons. If the 
amount of exercise is likely to be seriously disturbed 
by the journey to school and the neglect of parents to 
control the child's activity out of school hours, it will 
be necessary for such children to sleep and live at the 
school, especially if the home environment be un- 
satisfactory. 

Open-Air Hospitals or Sanatoria should be provided 
for children with cough and expectoration. They are 
hospital patients rather than scholars, but a certain 
amount of teaching will undoubtedly be beneficial. 

Probably the same institution would suffice for 
children suffering from active tuberculous disease of 
bones and joints or abdominal tuberculosis. 

Most children suffering from tuberculosis of the skin 
glands or other organs can be dealt with in Open-Air 
Schools and tuberculosis dispensaries ; for certain of 
these children, however, a stay of two or three months or 
so in the country under satisfactory conditions should 
be arranged. 

The treatment of rickets in the school child resolves 
itself into a question of endeavouring to ensure good 
hygienic surroundings, and here again the Open-Air 
School is the best solution that the Education Authority 
can offer. Operative treatment must at times be 
resorted to, since the deformity is in some cases not 
only great but fixed, and the time has passed for 
hygienic methods by themselves to be effectual ; as a 



200 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

rule, any considerable curvature of a bone remaining 
at the age of 6 or 7 years requires correction by 
operation. 

Ancemia must be considered in the light of the 
principal form it assumes in school children. In the 
case of the under-fed and ill-fed child living in un- 
hygienic surroundings, the indication for treatment is 
clear, and the benefit of the Open-Air School for the 
child is most striking, as will be seen from the result 
recorded in the chapter devoted to the subject. 

Headache is a symptom only, and must be treated 
as such, the underlying causation being first deter- 
mined — e.g. adenoids, eye-strain consequent upon defec- 
tive vision, indigestion, anaemia, etc. The appropriate 
treatment already considered for these conditions must 
then be followed. 

All questions of treatment necessarily are com- 
plicated by the additional one of cost. But from the 
national point of view, which is clearly the only reason- 
able one for the nation to take, the later treatment 
is deferred the more it costs directly and indirectly. 
Quite apart, then, from the question of justice to the 
child — surely a very sufficient reason for securing 
prompt and adequate treatment — the nation, on the 
ground of self-interest only, cannot afford to do other- 
wise than boldly adopt a policy which will ensure the 
appropriate treatment required being within the reach 
of all children. Any other policy will be expensive 
in proportion as it falls short of this. 

The School Nurse 

Frequent reference has been made throughout the 
chapter to the school nurse, and it may be convenient 
here to summarize the extended and varied part she 



TREATMENT OF SCHOOL CHILDREN 201 

plays in the organization of the School Medical Service. 
Her duties may be grouped under the following 
headings : — 

(i) To assist the doctor during the routine medical 
inspection by preparing the children, ascertaining their 
height and weight, and undertaking the preliminary 
testing of the vision and hearing. 

(2) To visit in the homes in order to interview 
parents in regard to the following out of any advice 
given by the doctor, and to instruct the mother in 
simple methods of treatment of such maladies as, e.g.^ 
sore heads due to pediculosis. 

(3) To visit the schools periodically, and to 
examine, for instance, the heads of all the children for 
pediculosis and ringworm, to see children suffering 
from sores of all kinds, sore eyes, " running ears," etc., 
and to report to the medical officer, supplementing in 
this way the periodical visits of the medical staff to the 
schools. 

(4) To attend at the School Clinic, to assist in the 
treatment carried on there, especially the treatment of 
minor ailments. 

(5) From time to time in the course of special in- 
vestigations, the nurse will be of much service for the 
purpose of making inquiries in the home, e.g. in respect 
to epileptic and other groups of school children in 
connection with which special information is required. 
Preliminary investigations of the nurse in instances of 
this sort will save the medical officer much time, and 
upon viewing the reports of the nurse he can then 
decide what cases he needs to see more particularly 
himself Her services may be very useful, too, in 
connection with the examination of children prior to 
their return to school after infectious diseases. She 
may be required, for instance, to swab the throats of 



202 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

children from infected homes when it seems preferable 
or necessary to visit these cases at home rather than 
to send for them to attend at the School Clinic. 

The duties of a school nurse may with advantage 
be combined with those of a health visitor and 
tuberculosis nurse. Such a combination of duties 
has been made in Warwickshire, the county of Durham, 
Willesden, and Croydon, and has been found to be 
very successful. In some areas the school nurse acts 
as school attendance officer with satisfactory results. 
In country areas especially there is a considerable 
advantage in narrowing the district in which she works 
so that her work may be more intensive in character. 



CHAPTER X 
THE PROVISION OF SCHOOL MEALS 

Education (Provision of Meals) Acts, 1907 and 1914 — Practical 
working — Selection of children— Place for provision of meal — 
Character of meal — Cost — Serving — School Medical Service and 
school meals — Difficulties and objections. 

WE have seen how in every direction there is need 
to attend to the physical condition of the 
child before any attempt is made to give any kind of 
formal instruction, and we have seen, too, how fre- 
quently this rule has been entirely or in part over- 
looked, and how severely the child has sometimes 
suffered in consequence. Not only has the child 
suffered physically, but the educational result has been 
woefully poor, and the return for all the time and 
money expended has been of the most meagre descrip- 
tion. And if this be true of lack of attention to the 
physical condition generally, more especially is it true 
of lack of attention to the adequate nourishment of the 
child. Into the question of the extent of unsatisfactory 
nutrition among children and of its causes we have 
entered sufficiently in a previous chapter ; we have 
seen how widespread this is, how urgent is the require- 
ment that, from the point of view both of the individual 
child and of the nation, vigorous and effective steps 

should be taken to ensure to each child a physique as 

203 



204 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

perfect as it is possible to obtain. Among the steps 
necessary to be taken, that of ascertaining that the 
child receives sufficient food, and of right quality, is 
clearly the most urgent. 

The Acts of 1907 and 19 14 are landmarks of 
great prominence, fixing as they do the responsibility 
for caring for the physical condition of these children 
upon the Authority which has compelled them to 
attend school. The Acts are important also as em- 
phasizing the responsibility of the community as a 
whole towards these children, and they enable that 
responsibility to be exercised without any of the degra- 
dation and disability associated with relief given under 
the Poor Law. 



The Education (Provision of Meals) Acts, 
1907 AND 1914 

The Education (Provision of Meals) Act, 1907, 
conferred powers upon Local Authorities for dealing to 
a large extent with the most important part of the 
problem. The Act permitted the formation of a 
School Canteen Committee, a committee which may be 
composed entirely of members of the Authority, or of 
such members acting in combination with the com- 
mittee of any voluntary association for the provision of 
school meals. It permits the Local Authority also to 
provide whatever may be necessary in the way of 
buildings, apparatus, offices, etc., in order to organize, 
prepare, and serve the meals. The Act, while per- 
mitting of the provision of meals for any and all 
children whose parents are willing to pay the sum 
determined by the Authority, allowed such Authority, 
moreover, where they are satisfied " that the parent is 
unable by reason of circumstances other than his 



THE PROVISION OF SCHOOL MEALS 205 

own fault to pay the amount," to provide the food 
also. 

Full powers, then, are given under this Act to 
provide school meals, with no restrictions as to the 
manner and conditions under which they are served, 
but with a restriction as to the class of children whom 
it is permissible to feed without payment upon the part 
of the parent. 

Since the Act of 19 14 has come into force there is 
no statutory limit to the amount which an Authority 
may expend under the Acts ; meals can be provided 
during the holidays and on other days on which the 
school is not open. 

These Acts are permissive, not compulsory. During 
the discussion in Parliament on 28 March, 19 14, on 
the Bill, the President of the Board of Education at 
that time, Mr. J. A. Pease, stated that the Government 
" believed that a good deal of the money that might be 
spent under a compulsory system would be at this 
particular moment wasted ; but that money spent 
under a permissive system, with power to put pressure 
on the authorities, could be spent without waste or 
friction ; and that the foundation of a thoroughly sound 
system could thus be laid." 

There are not wanting those, of course, who 
oppose the Act entirely, who believe that to provide for 
underfed children is no part of the function of the 
State. In view, however, of what the State has already 
done, and, above all, in view of the fact that the State 
compels underfed children to attend school, to make a 
principle of this objection does not seem permissible. 
Indeed, if objectors on this ground are pressed, it will 
usually be found that they admit that what they really 
object to is a further development of the doctrine of 
communal responsibility ; the principle has already been 



206 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

so amply ceded that it is obviously only a question 
as to how far it should be put into practice. It will 
frequently be found also that the objection to State 
and Municipal responsibility in this direction is only 
maintained so long as funds from voluntary sources are 
available. If the question is to be put to the test of 
principle, indeed, everything seems to point to the 
responsibility of the State for seeing that the child is 
in a physical condition of such a kind that it is able to 
benefit from the education which it is compelled to 
receive. 

The Act had up to the end of March, 19 14, been 
adopted by 134 out of 317 local Education Author- 
ities; the extent to which it is carried out, and the 
efficiency with which it is worked varies, however, 
greatly. This is necessarily the case where such 
diverse views obtain as to the spirit in which the whole 
subject should be approached. In the main the 
provision of meals for school children on the part of 
the Local Authority is looked upon as a measure to be 
adopted as a last resource, and even if undertaken by 
them, to be kept within the smallest compass possible. 
There are not wanting those, however, who see in this 
new function of the State an opportunity to be taken 
advantage of to the utmost. The administration of 
the Act will necessarily, then, depend upon the light in 
which a given Authority views it. 

Although, as we have noted, the Act makes no 
restrictions as to the number of children fed, so long as 
the cost is defrayed by the parents, still for practical 
purposes we may consider it as put into force for 
" underfed " children only, the so-called " necessitous " 
children ; the machinery in the first place, at any rate, 
will be suited to their requirements. 

In connection with this the questions will at once 



THE PROVISION OF SCHOOL MEALS 207 

arise — Who are these " necessitous " children ? How are 
they to be determined ? Who is to be the judge of 
their physical condition, and of their necessity ? This 
selection of the children who are to be fed is by no 
means easy. Take the physical condition first as a 
test. There are no doubt cases where one can say at 
once this is a starving child, or, at any rate, a child 
habitually underfed. But by no means the majority of 
the children who are ill-nourished can be disposed of in 
this ready way ; in them the question of unsuitability 
of food is inextricably interwoven with that of in- 
sufficiency, and, indeed, insufficiency of the right kind 
of food cannot necessarily be differentiated in respect 
of the injurious effect on the physical condition from 
insufficiency of the total quantity supplied. Further, 
as we have seen in a previous chapter, the causes which 
lead to ill-nutrition are complex. Then a further 
difficulty arises if it is held that the feeding of children 
under this Act should be decided on physical considera- 
tions only, since the children who especially require to 
be fed may be in excellent physical condition, the 
children, say, of a man suddenly thrown out of regular 
work. Feeding may be required to prevent them 
becoming ill-nourished. The selection of such children, 
then, would be on the score of poverty ; in a great 
many instances the physical conditions and the poverty 
will coincide ; in others the ground of poverty will 
entitle the child to be fed when the actual physical 
condition might not ; in others, again, the physical con- 
dition would entitle where poverty would not. The 
practical conclusion we believe to be that, in the 
machinery adopted for selecting children to be fed, such 
measures should be taken as will ensure that wherever 
there is poverty, of a degree, of course, to be decided 
upon by the local Authority, the child will receive 



2o8 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

meals ; in addition to this, there must be facilities for 
making inquiries into the case of every child who is 
not found to come into this category, but whose 
physical condition suggests that it is underfed, even 
though there may be a sufficient family income. 

The Selection of the Children 

The methods of selection and of investigation 
adopted have been various ; the following procedure is 
adopted by many Education Authorities : — 

The onus of making application to the Canteen 
Committee is placed primarily upon the shoulders of 
the parent, who makes application through the teacher 
in the great majority of instances, though application 
can be made direct to the Committee by the parent or 
by any individual on behalf of the parent. Application 
is not infrequently made by the teacher direct ; usually, 
however, if the teacher is of opinion that a child should 
receive meals he will interview the mother, and in this 
way the application really comes from the parent. There 
are a considerable number of cases, however, where the 
parents will not apply — in cases of neglect, for instance 
— and where, if application is to be made at all, it will 
have to be independent of the parent. These cases 
often present difficulties, but wherever there is doubt 
on the part of a teacher or of any other individual 
interested in the child, application should be made so 
that an opportunity of inquiry may be given. It is these 
children who need to be selected on physical grounds 
only ; ill-nutrition in the children of this class is nearly 
always associated with other evidences of neglect. 

In Brighton, applications are made by the head 
teachers, although any parent may make an application 
through the head teacher ; as the feeding is intended 



THE PROVISION OF SCHOOL MEALS 209 

primarily for those whose education suffers or is likely 
to suffer from insufficient food, this course has much to 
recommend it. 

The next question which immediately arises is as to 
what steps should be taken by the Canteen Committee 
to decide what course should be followed in each 
individual case ; what inquiries should it make. And 
having obtained the financial and other particulars of 
the family, what considerations shall guide the Com- 
mittee in coming to a decision as to their action ? 
The persons to whom these inquiries are assigned will 
be determined by local circumstances. Many Canteen 
Committees employ the attendance officers, a plan 
which is found to work well and to present considerable 
advantages. The inquiry form should be so drawn 
up as to include all the financial particulars of the 
family, and in addition any special information which 
may be of service to the Committee in coming to a 
conclusion as to the action they should take. Under 
the London County Council the work of inquiry and 
decision as to feeding of individual children is carried 
out by means of Voluntary Care Committees. 

It is clearly necessary to have some standard as to 
the degree of poverty which should entitle the child to 
receive free meals. Different scales are adopted by 
different Committees. In the city of Bradford, for 
example, the Committee deducts the rent from the 
total weekly earnings of the family, and if, after so 
doing, there remains less than three shillings a head, 
the child is considered eligible to be fed free. The 
scale cannot, of course, be rigidly adhered to in every 
case ; special considerations present themselves from 
time to time, e.g. a man may have been out of work 
for a long period and have many arrears to make up ; 
where the family is very small, rather more elasticity 
14 



2IO THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

is allowed, since the expenses are in proportion heavier. 
In those instances where there is a family income 
above the limit referred to, each case receives very- 
careful consideration. Frequently such cases are 
referred to the School Medical Staff for reports as to 
physical condition of the child, and according to the 
circumstances of the case, the meals are either refused 
entirely, or a payment varying from a halfpenny to the 
full cost, viz. twopence, is asked. Where the circum- 
stances justify such action free tickets are issued, and 
at the end of a month a bill is sent in to the parent 
and the necessary steps taken to recover the cost 
incurred. It should, however, be stated that the result 
of making a charge to parents who have the money, 
but who do not feed their children adequately, is often 
most unsatisfactory ; it means repeatedly that the child 
is withdrawn from the list. In very many of these 
cases, recovery by legal means is not practicable ; the 
degree of neglect is not sufficient to make the resort 
to legal proceedings satisfactory, and as the matter 
stands to-day there can be little doubt that some 
.children who would greatly benefit from school meals 
do not receive them. In each case the decision of the 
Committee holds good for a month, and at the end 
of that time report is presented and any fresh features 
brought before the Committee. In many cases where 
a satisfactory change in the family circumstances 
takes place during the course of the month, the child 
is withdrawn voluntarily by the parent. 

Place of Service — Character of the Meal 

Before discussing further points, it will be advisable 
to consider what form the meal to be provided should 
take, whether breakfast or dinner or both. The pro- 



THE PROVISION OF SCHOOL MEALS 211 

vision of the breakfast has the advantage of simplicity 
and of cheapness, but there is a great deal to be said 
for allowing the meal provided to be the principal meal 
of the day. Children are usually most hungry at 
dinner-time, there is more difficulty in cases where the 
mothers are neglectful in securing the regular attend- 
ance of children at the meals if given at breakfast-time, 
there is more hurry in the serving of the meal, and 
it can be turned much less readily to educational 
advantage. If one meal only is to be provided, this 
should be the midday meal, but in many cases breakfast 
should be given as well. 

The place of service of the meal will depend upon 
local conditions, on the numbers and distribution of 
the children. One may say at once that the work 
should not be left to caterers in eating-houses or 
restaurants, except in outlying districts, or where it is 
not feasible to make other arrangements ; no educa- 
tional advantage can be expected from such an 
arrangement. 

As mentioned in the Appendix to Circular 856, 
" there are considerable advantages in feeding children 
in their own schools. The child lives as a rule within 
easy reach of the school ; discipline is more easily 
maintained ; the child is kept under control the whole 
day by the same persons ; in practically all cases the 
child can wash before meals." In dealing with children 
from the locality of several small schools, a more 
satisfactory arrangement is the hiring of halls or 
rooms, especially if they be provided with facilities for 
cooking; in rural schools the use of a village hall is 
often desirable. 

The supply of food to the dining-rooms will again 
be effected in different ways in different districts. In 
a small town, should one dining-room only be neces- 



2 12 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

sary, all arrangements for cooking the meals would 
probably be made at the dining-room itself, unless 
arrangements were made with a caterer for the supply 
of the meals to be served in the dining-room. Where 
several centres are required, as must be the case in all 
large towns, a central kitchen will probably be found 
the best method to adopt, a kitchen fitted up and 
equipped by the Canteen Committee, who thus have 
full control over all the food provided, and all the 
arrangements necessary for its proper distribution. 
A system first adopted in Bradford has since been 
utilized in many towns. In Bradford the dinners are 
prepared at a central kitchen, capable of cooking the 
necessary dinners for some five or six thousand 
children, should this be necessary. The dinners, con- 
sisting always of two courses, are sent out in recep- 
tacles which ensure the food being kept hot for 
upwards of two hours if necessary, and by means of 
motor waggons the dinners are distributed to the 
various dining centres, numbering about twenty in all. 
At the central kitchen, too, all the washing-up is done. 
The motor waggons, having distributed the food at 
the various centres, make a return journey and collect 
the dirty plates, etc., and bring them back to the 
central kitchen. The advisability of such a plan will 
depend upon local circumstances, upon the provision 
for washing up at the dining-rooms, etc., and the 
cheapest and most efficient method will in each case 
be selected. 

Menu 

If breakfasts only are provided the problem is a 
simple one. There is very little cooking necessary ; 
at the most this involves only the boiling of milk and 
the making of porridge. Porridge, with treacle and 



THE PROVISION OF SCHOOL MEALS 213 

milk, followed by bread and butter or margarine and 
milk, hot or cold, is the ideal breakfast from the point 
of view of food value and cost ; but unless there is 
careful supervision of the children, a large number will 
not eat the porridge. With a little care, this dislike 
can, however, be overcome. In an experiment on the 
feeding of forty school children — all of them children 
from the poorer quarters of the city, and of whom 
only one, a Scottish boy, was in the habit of having 
porridge for breakfast — Dr. Crowley found that on the 
first day, in spite of giving small helpings and coaxing 
the children, one-third of them refused to eat the 
porridge ; on the next day, however, there were only 
two, and these soon fell in with the majority. Where 
breakfasts are being provided for large numbers, and 
where there is an absence of careful and individual 
attention, it is hardly practicable to serve porridge. 
Failing this, breakfast should consist of milk, hot or 
cold, about half a pint for each child, and bread (brown 
or white) and butter, margarine, or dripping, with jam 
as a variety. Such a meal will cost a fraction over 
one penny per child, varying somewhat according to 
the number of children served ; where porridge re- 
places some of the bread and butter the cost is some- 
what less. The meal can, of course, be varied ; but if 
the nutritional value is kept up this will always mean 
an increase in cost. Thus, if cocoa be used instead 
of milk, the nutritional value will be lowered in propor- 
tion as less milk is used, there being but a negligible 
amount of actual nourishment in the small amount of 
cocoa used. The bread may be partly replaced by 
wholemeal currant loaf, but this will cost about as 
much again as the equivalent quantity of bread. An 
egg adds very greatly to the cost of the meal, even 
though less milk be taken. 



214 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

- The midday meal demands careful consideration. 
Some sort of dinner can, of course, be provided at a 
very small expense and with very little trouble, but 
from a nutritional point of view, if from no other, 
such dinners may be very unsatisfactory. Such is the 
case, for instance, in regard to the " soup " dinners one 
often hears about, costing less than a halfpenny per 
child. It was largely in order to solve the problem 
of the provision of really satisfactory dinners that the 
experiment on the feeding of school children already 
referred to was undertaken. It was desired to draw 
up a list of two-course dinners, which should be 
practical as regards their preparation and serving, 
should be up to a certain standard in regard to the 
proportion of protein and fat, would cost between i d. 
and i\d. for the material used, and would be enjoyed 
by the children. Acting in conjunction with Dr. 
Crowley, a list of seventeen dinners satisfying these 
conditions was arranged by Miss Marian E. Cuff 
(Superintendent of Domestic Subjects to the Bradford 
Education Committee). Especial stress was laid on 
the proportion of protein and fat respectively in the 
dietary, since the protein or nitrogenous constituent of 
a diet is of much importance from the point of view of 
body building, and this is more especially true in the 
case of children, where tissue growth is rapid. At 
least one-third of the protein required should be 
supplied in animal form. 

Fat, too, is not infrequently insufficiently repre- 
sented in a child's diet, sugar, in the form of jam 
or treacle, being often substituted for it. The carbo- 
hydrates, as represented by starchy foods and sugar, 
are usually sufficiently represented, the latter being 
apt to be given in excess. Any diet in which an 
adequate quantity of protein and fat is provided will 



THE PROVISION OF SCHOOL MEALS 215 

probably also contain sufficient of the carbohydrate 
element. 

The total daily amount of protein necessary for an 
"average" child of, say, 10 years old is between 60 
and 70 grms., Le. about 2 J ounces per diem.* The 
breakfast we have already suggested has a protein 
value of approximately 19 grms., Le. f ounce, while 
the average protein value of the seventeen dinners 
was found to be 29 grms., i.e. i ounce each. This 
leaves i 5 to 20 grms. short of the desired amount, and 
would be made up at tea, were such a meal to consist 
of, say, about 6 ounces of bread, weak tea containing 
about 4 ounces of milk, \ ounce margarine or jam. 

Cost of Meal 

In discussing this aspect of the subject, the cost of 
the actual food provided and that of administration 
should be kept distinct. The latter will vary greatly, 
depending not only upon the character of the meals 
provided, but on the manner in which they are served, 
and no useful general statement can be made. 

As to the cost of the food, this may be put down, 
as already stated, at approximately \d. per head for 
breakfast, and if the dinners given are of the character 
already discussed, they will cost from \\d. to \\d. 
per head. A school dinner worthy of the name cannot 
be satisfactorily provided at a lower figure. 

Serving of the Food 

The main point to recognize is that the meals 
should be made educational ; the day should be 

* See Food and the Principles of Dietetics^ Dr. Robert Hutchi- 
son (Edward Arnold : London, 19 14). 



2i6 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

considered to have entirely gone by for the feeding 
of children like so many small savages, but this kind 
of treatment of them is unfortunately still prevalent. 
The meal should be served as nicely as would be the 
case in a well-appointed home. The children should 
be accommodated preferably at tables to hold ten or 
twelve, the tables properly laid with tablecloths and 
the necessary implements ; a plant or vase of flowers 
should be in the centre. To each group of children 
a monitress should be appointed, and supervising the 
whole should be an adult — a teacher, or otherwise — 
for, at any rate, every fifty children, with a teacher 
in addition in charge of the arrangements as a whole. 
The actual serving of the food may suitably be done 
by the caretaker and his wife, or some appropriate 
man or woman appointed for the purpose. It is 
important that this duty should be regularly performed 
by the same person or persons. 

Careful attention should be paid to the classifica- 
tion of the children ; the little children will be at tables 
together, so as to ensure small helpings being served ; 
delicate children, or any whom it is difficult to get to 
eat, will be similarly provided for. Special attention 
will be paid to such tables as these by the teachers 
and other adults in charge. 

" It is important to avoid discouraging a child's 
appetite or wasting good food by serving unnecessarily 
large helpings in the first place. No child should be 
allowed a second helping until all have been provided 
with the first, and a reasonable time has been allowed 
for its consumption." [Appendix to Circular 856.] 

If a second course is provided this should not be 
given out until the first is cleared away. Drinking 
water should be available; separate mugs should be 
provided for each child requiring water. The moni- 



THE PROVISION OF SCHOOL MEALS 217 

tresses should wear suitable aprons and sleeves ; special 
attention should be paid to their personal appearance. 
They require careful training in their work ; those in 
charge of the small children will assist in helping to 
feed them. The meal should on no account be 
hurried through, and there should be no undue noise 
or bustle. It need hardly be said that every possible 
attention must be paid to the personal appearance of 
the children ; provision must be made either at the 
school or at the dining-hall, where that is not attached 
to the school, for ensuring clean hands and faces. 

The above sketch will show what possibilities the 
school midday meal affords ; no Authority ought to be 
satisfied with any arrangements for its service short of 
the best ; it is not so much money that is needed to 
ensure this, but an appreciation of its necessity, and 
the taking of the trouble to see that the requirements 
are followed out. In many places a serious endeavour 
is being made to carry out the provision of meals on 
the lines suggested above ; this is not altogether easy 
whe;j large numbers have to be dealt with. 

Much divergence of opinion exists as to what part 
the teacher should take in connection with the midday 
meal. A teacher should be available for supervising 
the dining-hall, whether the adults who assist are 
teachers or not. If teachers assist they should only do 
so at intervals, and if the majority volunteer to take 
their turn no burden falls upon any single individual. 

The School Medical Staff and School Meals 

In the view of the Board of Education no scheme 
can be regarded as wholly satisfactory unless the 
School Medical Staff 

" {a) has the right to nominate for school feeding 



218 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

any child found at the routine medical 
inspection or in special examination to be 
suffering from malnutrition due to insuffi- 
ciency or unsuitability of food ; 
" {b) is consulted as to the dietary provided ; 
" {c) has the right and duty of inspecting the 
actual arrangements made in regard to the 
preparation, distribution, and service of the 
meals ; 
" {d) is consulted in all cases of doubt as to the 
necessity for retaining a child on the feed- 
ing list owing to its physical condition." 
In addition, the School Medical Staff should take 
steps to ascertain the effects of the meals on the 
health and physical and mental condition of the 
children fed. To this end it will be necessary medically 
to examine before and after, or even during periods of 
feeding, small and homogeneous groups of children 
and compare their physical and mental condition with 
control-groups of normal children of similar fige and 
sex who have not partaken of the meals. 

Difficulties and Objections 

The free feeding of school children is attended 
with difficulties which it is not possible to ignore. 
Such difficulties one would expect to find, since one is 
dealing with a condition which ought never on any 
appreciable scale to arise, and which must always be 
due either to the misfortune or the fault of the parent. 
Free feeding has, then, always to be looked upon from 
two points of view, viz. that of the child and that 
of the parent ; hence the complications which arise. 

The difficulties are (i) economic, (2) moral, or (3) 
a combination of both. Many parents cannot at all 



THE PROVISION OF SCHOOL MEALS 219 

adequately feed their children ; they do not receive 
enough wage to enable them to do so ; this may be 
due to being employed on short time or to irregular 
work. But, apart from this, there are many men in 
the country whose habitual wage when in full work is 
insufficient to enable them to keep their children in 
physical efficiency. When carrying out the experiment 
to which reference has already more than once been 
made in this chapter, a careful calculation was made as 
to the cost of the breakfasts and dinners provided, 
both when the food was obtained at wholesale and also 
at retail prices, and from the figures obtained a calcula- 
tion was made as to the necessary expenditure upon 
food for a family of seven persons, the father and 
mother and five children. I may perhaps with 
advantage quote here from the Report: — 

'' Adding up now the cost of each meal, a total of 
41^. per child per day is obtained. Multiplying this 
by 71^, as representing the 5 children and the 2 parents, 
the total cost for food per day works out at 2s. Sd., or 
of iSs. Sd. per week. If, further, of the 17 dinners the 
two cheapest meat and the cheapest vegetarian dinners 
(including two of the cheese dinners) are chosen, the 
total cost is brought down to lys. ^^d. per week. The 
cost per week for a similar family, in order to maintain 
physical efficiency, is given by Seebohm Rowntree at 
lys. ^d.; it is interesting to note how nearly the two 
estimates approximate. It will be noted that there is 
nothing extravagant about the diet suggested, and how- 
ever looked at it must, I think, be admitted that the 
amount allowed for food (under pre-supposed conditions 
of city life) cannot be considered unreasonable. It 
should be noted that the figures are based on the 
assumption, for example, that margarine at 4^. per 
pound is used, and not fresh butter at is. 2d., and that 



2 20 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

meat free from bone is put at the low figure of 6d. per 
pound. Moreover, it is presumed that the mother is a 
careful and capable manager, that she knows something 
of food values, and how to lay out money to the best 
advantage, and that there is no waste." 

But the difficulties are due to moral causes also : 
there may be a sufficient income, but it is wastefully 
expended, and the child suffers, or else there may be 
insufficient income due to laziness or other moral defect 
on the part of the parent. In a survey of these many 
difficulties there is only one point which seems to stand 
out quite clearly, and that is, that the child must not 
sifffer ; it must be fed. This claim of the child must 
take precedence over all else, and, having satisfied that 
claim, the closest attention must then be given to the 
problems presented by the parent. Into the large 
economic questions raised by the fact that wages are 
paid inadequate to maintain physical efficiency and 
into the question of irregular and short-time employ- 
ment, it is no part of our present business to enter. 
The child must be fed, and if such subsidizing of 
industry be necessary, for that is what free feeding 
amounts to, the underlying causes of so unsatisfactory 
an economic condition must be simultaneously tackled. 

The moral difficulties present problems quite as 
great. The punishment of the parent, even if it should 
prove of any service, is only in very rare instances 
possible to obtain ; the degree of neglect is usually not 
bad enough. If the parent is told he must pay, or if 
he is sued for meals already provided, the inevitable 
result is, that in the first case the child is not allowed 
to attend the meals, and in the second case he is with- 
drawn from continued attendance. In the general run 
of cases connected with moral deficiency on the part 
of the parent, no help can be obtained from the law as 



THE PROVISION OF SCHOOL MEALS 221 

it stands to-day. Something really effective might, in 
some instances, be achieved by the persistent and per- 
sonal effort of a man or woman who would try and 
influence the family in the capacity of a friend ; but 
men and women suitable for such service are not easy 
to find. We are driven to admit, then, that just as on 
the economic side we may be obliged to put a premium 
on to the payment of low wages, so, on the moral, we 
may at times be found to be placing a premium on 
parental neglect. In the case of the latter, however, as 
in that of the former, we may hope that so very un- 
satisfactory a result may compel attention to the 
underlying causes of the parent's fault, a fault which 
after all is frequently wrapped up with causes environ- 
mental and economic, since parental neglect of the 
character with which we are dealing would, under 
healthy and satisfactory conditions of life, practically 
never be found to exist. 

It is interesting to note how attention to the bare 
physical condition of the child opens up problems of 
educational interest ; we shall find the same thing is 
true when speaking of Open-Air Schools and when 
dealing also with school baths. Our idea of what 
education means is becoming rapidly widened ; in fact, 
we are daily finding out, that excellent though the 
" instruction " provided for our children may be, they 
are nevertheless lacking in "education." It will, we 
believe, become clear that the advantage of the midday 
meal cannot long be confined to merely " necessitous " 
children. We shall have made a great stride in the 
education of our children when we shall have arranged 
for them to go to school for the day ; when each school 
has its own well-equipped kitchen and dining-hall ; 
when refinement in the cooking and in the service of 
the food and the inculcation of good manners and 



222 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

courtesy will be a part of our educational system of 
which we shall not be the least proud. When this 
time arrives, the economic objections which hold to-day 
to the free feeding of some children will have disap- 
peared, the struggling parent just able to keep his 
children above the " necessitous " line will share in any 
benefit received by the careless and indifferent parent. 
No doubt a number of years will elapse before we see 
this ideal universally carried out, but it is a necessary 
outcome of the newer and broader and deeper views as 
to the true meaning of education ; on all sides, however, 
there is abundant evidence that this new outlook is 
steadily influencing educational thought and practice. 



CHAPTER XI 

SCHOOL BATHS AND BATHING 

Functions of the school bath — The shower bath — The swimming 
bath — Difficulties and objections. 

THE question to be discussed in this chapter is one 
that has come much more considerably to the 
fore in this country during the past few years, though 
it has received for many years past close attention 
abroad, perhaps more particularly in Germany. That 
the subject should be receiving this attention is another 
evidence of the fuller and wider interpretation which is 
being given to the meaning of the word " education." 

Functions of the School Bath 

School baths are needed to fulfil three main 
functions : — 

(i) To enswe cleanliness. — The necessity of the 
school bath from this point of view has been abun- 
dantly proved in a previous chapter on the physical 
condition of school children. The bathing, at least 
weekly, of many of the children from the poorer 
quarters of the town is urgently required. Facilities in 
many of the houses from which they come do not 
exist for a thorough hot bath, and any one acquainted 
with the condition of the children obtaining in a school 



224 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

situated in the poorer quarters of a city cannot but be 
impressed with the obvious fact that before any instruc- 
tion of the children is attempted they need, so soon as 
they have been properly fed, to be thoroughly washed. 
Our Elementary School system has, perhaps, no greater 
function than to develop in a child the feeling of self- 
respect ; so long as children sit in school in an unclean 
condition this, the first of lessons, remains untaught. 

(2) To invigorate the body and to maintain and 
increase the physical^ mental^ and moral health, — Bath- 
ing, properly carried out, fulfils a great function in this 
direction, and even if all children came to school clean, 
this effect of the school bath would remain an un- 
answerable argument in its favour. The skin is an 
important organ of the body, and freedom for the full 
exercise of its functions has more bearing on mental 
alertness and moral brightness in children than is some- 
times supposed. 

(3) To provide a valuable means of physical exercise^ 
and to teach the art of swimmingy life-saving, etc, — This 
function of the school bath is one of the first import- 
ance, at present, however, but inadequately realized. 
Further reference to it will be made when speaking of 
the swimming bath. 

The Shower Bath 

For experience in connection with the working of 
the shower-bath system, and for a knowledge of the 
advantages to be derived from it, we have once again 
to go outside our own country. To Germany we must 
turn in particular, for in that country bathing arrange- 
ments exist in almost all towns, both large and small. 
For an interesting account of the arrangements in a 
number of these towns, we are indebted to a Report 



SCHOOL BATHS AND BATHING 225 

presented to the Education Committee of the London 
County Council by the Medical Officer (Education), 
Dr. James Kerr, and the Assistant-Education Adviser, 
Dr. Frank Rose. Detailed accounts are given of the 
construction of the baths, the arrangements made for 
bathing, the advantages claimed, and the difficulties 
encountered. The principles of construction may be 
said to be the same in all, though there is a great 
variety in the manner in which these are carried out. 
Thus, as the Report points out, the bathroom may be 
a more or less ill-lit concreted cellar, or a beautiful 
marble-lined, light, and airy room. There may be 
simply forms upon which the children may deposit their 
clothes, or each child may have its separate dressing- 
box. The showers may be situated, some twenty 
or thirty of them at intervals, over a slightly sloping 
concrete floor, or over a shallow trough, or a separate 
compartment, fitted with a rose shower, may be 
arranged for each child. While there is no need for 
undue elaboration, lightness, airiness, a sense of space, 
and a liberal use of white tiling or its equivalent, with 
provision for all reasonable privacy in dressing and un- 
dressing, is rightly demanded, and the arrangements 
should allow of efficient supervision. A separate 
bathing-cell for each child has little advantage for the 
majority of children, though a certain number of such 
cells should be provided for the older girls. The 
educational nature of the bathing must be always kept 
well in view in all the arrangements made. 

The method of using such a bath arranged for, say, 
a batch of 20 children at one time, would be as 
follows : The children would undress, each in their 
separate dressing-boxes, which need, however, only be 
divided one from the other by partitions, each having a 
canvas curtain in front, capable of being readily un- 
15 



226 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

hooked when the child leaves the box, and hooked on 
to the side. Each child stands under a rose, and is 
provided with soap, a flannel, or its equivalent, and 
scrubbing brush if required. The water will have 
been raised to the desired temperature in the mixer, a 
hot shower is given, the children wash themselves 
thoroughly all over, and a second hot shower follows. 
A short, sharp, cold shower should end the bath. The 
children should briskly dry themselves, and quickly 
dress ; the bathing of a batch of children, from start to 
finish, should not occupy more than half an hour. 

In this way it will be seen that if the bath is used 
for two hours in the morning and for two hours in the 
afternoon (the last half-hour of each session being left 
free), i6o children can be bathed each day, when 20 
are arranged for in each batch, thus giving a total for 
the week of 800. It is clear, then, that a simple 
installation of this kind will allow for the bathing of all 
the children, once a week, in a very large school. 

The system has been introduced into a very few 
schools at present in England. Up till 3 1 December, 
191 2, shower-bath installations had been introduced in 
20 educational areas ; good examples are to be found 
in Bradford, Brighton, London, and Warrington. 

The Swimming Bath 

The school swimming bath, no doubt on account of 
its expense, is rarely met with, and yet, were it not for 
this consideration, there can be no doubt that it should 
be looked upon as an essential part of the school 
equipment. It need not necessarily be a large bath, 
however. It is not easy to overestimate the excellence 
of swimming as a physical exercise, and the educa- 
tional advantages to be obtained from the school bath 



SCHOOL BATHS AND BATHING 227 

are of much importance if the whole arrangements are 
carried out from this point of view. Such baths in 
connection with Elementary Day Schools have been 
built in but very few towns. Thanks very largely to the 
advocacy of Miss Margaret McMillan, to whom in this 
direction, as in so many others, the school child owes 
much, excellent examples of these school baths are to 
be found in the city of Bradford. There are six such 
baths, a photograph of one of which faces page 228. 
These baths, though each attached to one school, are 
used as centres for adjacent schools. Failing school 
baths, use should be made of the ordinary public 
swimming baths, but it is of great importance that 
during the time these are used for school children they 
should be used exclusively for them, and that full 
advantage should be taken of the educational oppor- 
tunity which the bathing of the children offers. They 
should go to the baths in batches of 20 to 30, and the 
following points should receive attention : — 

(i) A separate dressing- box should be provided for 
each child. 

(2) Each child should wash under a shower, as 
already detailed, before entering the bath. If this 
cannot be arranged, the feet at least should be washed 
in troughs specially provided for the purpose. 

(3) Careful individual attention should be given to 
the children to see that none of them stand shivering 
on the edge of the bath, and systematic instruction in 
swimming, diving, etc., must be provided. 

(4) After leaving the swimming bath each child 
should have a short, sharp, cold shower, should be 
rapidly dried, and should quickly dress. 

(5) In the case of the girls, carefully fitting caps 
should be worn. If the hair is wet, special attention 
should be paid to drying it. 



228 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

(6) A brisk run round the playground when the 
weather permits should be 4aken after the bath, and 
the last batch should, if at all possible, bathe at such a 
time as to allow of the children being in school for at 
least half an hour before returning home. 

It will be seen how important it is that careful 
attention should be paid to each child in regard to the 
proper washing of itself, to the use it makes of the 
swimming bath, to the way it is dried, and especially 
to the attention given to the hair. To carry out the 
bathing efficiently, a teacher should accompany each 
batch of children. The bath attendant is not only 
usually unqualified for the work from the educational 
point of view, but the adequate supervision of some 30 
children is hardly possible, especially when the whole 
of the time during which the children are supposed to 
be in the bath should be devoted to the teaching of 
swimming. 

Difficulties and Objections 

Objections to attendance at the swimming bath 
come both from the parents and children, though 
with greater frequency from the former, and for the 
most part such objections are not reasonable. Tact 
and enthusiasm on the part of the head and assistant 
teachers are of great importance, and the number of 
children withdrawn will be small in proportion as these 
qualities are exhibited. Parents are apt to put down 
every little cold that the child gets to the school bath, 
and there is some ground for doing so if children are 
sent home shivering or not properly dried, or if — 
especially in the case of the younger children through 
insufficient attention — the child is not properly dressed. 
On the part of the children, objection is only likely to 



SCHOOL BATHS AND BATHING 229 

be raised until they have become accustomed to the 
bath, though in some cases the very right and natural 
aversion to showing their scant and poor underclothing 
may play some part. Undoubtedly, on the other 
hand, school bathing has a good effect in regard to 
clothing, and the mothers, knowing the children will be 
bathed, are likely to take more care in regard to their 
clothing. Apart from unreasonable objections, there 
may be, of course, valid medical grounds against 
individual children bathing, and the medical inspection 
of each child when duly carried out will make it 
possible to determine which children should not be 
bathed at all and which must not use the swimming 
bath. Thus special attention will be paid to children 
with lung or heart affection, to those with any ear 
disease, to those suffering from any skin affection, and 
to children who are simply " delicate," or in whom the 
circulation is naturally very poor. Indeed, the bathing 
of the children is a matter over which it is not possible 
to be too careful so as to avoid all grounds of com- 
plaint, and to ensure that the maximum number of 
children avail themselves of this part of the school 
curriculum, so important alike from an educational as 
from a physical standpoint. 

The arrangements for school bathing should apply 
as far as possible to all children, the younger ones 
using the swimming bath as well as the older. In 
the case of infants the trough of the shower bath, if 
made sufficiently deep, say 12 to 18 inches, may be 
utilized. The cost of shower baths is not great, and 
the return for the money spent a particularly good one. 
We may well here quote the Report already referred 
to in regard to the school baths at Cologne, where the 
writers of the Report were informed that — " The in- 
fluence of school baths in promoting cleanliness is very 



230 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

marked, not only with regard to the condition of the 
body, but also of the clothes. An increase in the 
children's capacity for work has also been observed. 
The self-respect of the children has been raised, as 
they take a pride in the cleanly appearance of them- 
selves and their school-fellows. The public are 
grateful for the introduction of school shower baths. 
The influence of the habits of cleanliness inculcated at 
school makes itself felt long after school life, and has 
also in many cases favourably affected the home life 
of the parents." 



CHAPTER XII 
PHYSICAL EXERCISES AND GAMES 

Introductory— Systems of physical exercise — Physical and 
educational effects — Where the lesson should be given — The 
teacher in relation to physical exercises — Relation of physical 
condition of child — Games — The Playground Movement in 
America — Organized play out of school hours — Dancing. 

PHYSICAL exercises and games form a special 
branch of what may be termed the physical 
education of the child. Physical education is a com- 
prehensive term, including all that concerns the care 
of the body, all such questions as relate to food, cloth- 
ing, and cleanliness, and to the formation of good 
physical habits generally. Physical education, more- 
over, must not be looked upon as distinct from other 
forms of education. So intimate is the connection of 
one organ of the body with each and all of the others, 
so dependent is the brain upon the general activities 
of the body, so intimately associated in development, 
as we have seen when speaking of the training of the 
infant, are the cells receiving sensations, governing 
movement, or producing intellectual and moral results, 
that one cannot possibly speak of physical education in 
opposition to or apart from the acquiring of knowledge 
or of moral ideas. This intimate connection between 
physical training and intellectual and even moral 
development is perhaps especially well seen in all 

forms of handwork, especially those involving active 

231 



232 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

muscular work, such, for example, as wood and metal 
work. To watch a class engaged in this work convinces 
one at once of the impossibility of splitting education 
up into component parts and placing them in any sort 
of watertight compartments. It is clearly seen that 
the exercise, active but not unduly violent, is of great 
benefit to the body as a whole, that the actual muscles 
engaged are developed, that mental processes are in- 
volved at every step, and that moral qualities find here 
continual opportunity for expression and development. 

But these remarks apply also, though perhaps in 
not quite so evident a manner, to that great branch of 
physical education comprised in physical exercises and 
games. Indeed if, as has sometimes been the case, the 
attempt is made to look upon physical exercises as a 
thing apart, to endeavour to develop muscle only, to 
train the child to perform certain gymnastic feats, then 
the whole point and meaning of such exercises as part 
of the education of the child is missed. The maximum 
benefit so far as the body is concerned will only be 
obtained as this unity of body, mind, and even soul, if we 
may be allowed the word, be kept always to the fore. 

The physical training of the child, more especially 
under the conditions of town life, necessitates the use 
of definite systematic exercises. These must not be 
looked upon as in any way rivals to, or antagonistic to, 
games ; the one form of exercise can in no way take 
the place of the other ; they have each their separate 
function, and to a large extent their separate effects. 
Neither must physical exercises be looked upon simply 
as necessary to correct any bad effects consequent upon 
the strain of school work. True, this makes them all 
the more necessary, though much of the bad effect of 
school life to-day is in reality an effect due to specific 
and removable causes. The bad air, for example, so 



PHYSICAL EXERCISES AND GAMES 233 

common in classrooms can be remedied by the suitable 
construction and ventilation of such classrooms ; and 
the faulty positions producing round shoulders, lateral 
curvature or general slackness in the carriage of the 
body must similarly be prevented by desks and seats 
suited to the individual child. Physical exercises are 
not required, that is to say, only as a corrective, but 
they must be looked upon as essential in the production 
of a well-balanced body, harmoniously knit together 
and with precision in its movements. 

Systems of Physical Exercise 

The far-reaching effect of physical exercises must be 
borne in mind when adopting a system for application in 
schools. It is clear that if mere muscular development 
be the object, a very different system will be desired 
than if the wider effect is kept in view. Many are the 
systems which have been in use, differing according to 
the end in view, and the following summary of them is 
taken from the Report of the Royal Commission on 
Physical Training (Scotland) : — 

" (i) The Swedish System, admirable in theory, and 
nearly perfect in its adaptation of certain exercises to 
attain certain results, is stated to be defective, inas- 
much as it is exhausting, and tends to ' staleness ' if 
thoroughly carried out, and its lack of interest and 
variety renders it unsuitable as a system to be pursued 
throughout nine years of school life. But selected 
exercises from it should form part of a wider and more 
varied whole. 

" (2) The German System is said to be remarkable 
for the development of ambidexterity, which proves 
valuable in many trades after school life. Objections 
taken to it are its abnormal development of muscle and 



234 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

non-athletic tendency, and that it requires the use of 
heavy apparatus. 

" (3) The Swiss System has many good points. It 
aims at skill and activity. Children while at practice 
sing Tyrolese songs, and its advocates assert that it 
gives refreshing mental rest after school study. One 
witness, however, attributed the high rate of heart 
disease in Switzerland to the use, by the elder boys, 
of too heavy staves while undergoing the training. 

" (4) In France there have been frequent changes of 
system. After the war of 1870 French physical educa- 
tion took the form of gymnastics and military exercises. 
A full account of the French systems and their results 
will be found in the evidence of a witness who has 
made them a special study, and who has had practical 
experience both of Lycee and University life. A 
brief summary may be noted here : — gymnastics with 
apparatus were everywhere rendered obligatory, and the 
movements in favour of military drill culminated in the 
creation of military cadet corps in the schools, both 
primary and secondary. But these cadet corps, known 
by the name of bataillons scolaires^ after a brilliant 
beginning, fell into discredit, and the last of them was 
suppressed in 1890. The causes of failure seem to have 
been (a) the cost, which was out of all proportion to the 
results obtained ; ib) many of the results were unsatis- 
factory — for instance, the children affected the manners 
and language of the drill-sergeants, and imported into 
the playground the phraseology of the barracks, until 
the deterioration in the manners of the children set the 
teachers against the system : {c) the regular officers 
also became hostile, for they found that the too early 
specialization for the child was a bad preparation for 
the recruit. For a time, private gymnastic societies 
flourished, and were recruited mainly from the primary 



PHYSICAL EXERCISES AND GAMES 235 

schools, but these aimed less at the increase of the 
respiratory powers than at the formation of muscle by 
exercises with apparatus. The system pursued by the 
private societies is gradually giving way to the Gymnas- 
tique raisonnie^ which is now being adopted both at the 
school for military instructors at Joinville le Pont and 
by the primary schools. It is founded on the Swedish 
plan. British games and sports, it may be added, are 
finding an increased number of admirers in France. 

"(5) In America each State has its owi system; 
many are of great variety and excellence. One witness, 
however, deposed to having observed in them an undue 
predilection for ' records.' 

" (6) Sandow's system^ valuable as it is stated to be 
for adults, involves an amount of concentrated attention 
which does not recommend it for the use of children ; 
but some of the movements, notably the breathing 
exercises, as we saw them practised at the London 
Orphan Asylum, produce very good chest development, 
and may well be incorporated in a model system." 

In the past the military idea, on the one hand, has 
frequently predominated, and, on the other, undue 
attention has been paid to mere muscular development. 
The reaction is now perhaps too much towards the 
scientific side, to the development of a system embody- 
ing a series of ideal movements each with its end in 
view, but which is apt to be lacking in freshness for 
children. Such a criticism is brought against the 
Swedish system, but probably this is more true of the 
Swedish system as practised sometimes in England than 
to the manner in which it is carried out in the country 
of its origin. There can, at any rate, be no doubt that 
it is upon the Swedish system, taking full advantage of 
its elasticity, that a system of physical exercises for 
school children should be moulded. Much care* is 



236 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

required to meet the needs of children of different 
sex and age, and also those of different physical 
capabilities; 

Physical and Educational Effects 

The kind of exercises required are admirably set 
forth in the Syllabus of Physical Exercises for Public 
Elementary Schools issued by the Board of Education.* 
As pointed out in the Introduction to the Syllabus — 
" Physical Training has, or should have, a twofold 
effect ; on the one hand a physical effect, and 
on the other a mental and moral effect, which 
for convenience may be termed educational in 
the popular sense. The direct results upon the 
health and physique of the child may be de- 
scribed as the physical effect. . . . Exercises, if 
rightly conducted, also have the effect, not less 
important, of developing in the children a cheer- 
ful and joyous spirit, together with the qualities of 
alertness, decision, concentration, and perfect con- 
trol of brain over body. This is, in short, a dis- 
cipline, and may be termed the educational effect." 
The Physical Effect is considered in this introductory 
chapter to the syllabus under three headings, according 
as the effect is {a) on the general nutrition ; {b) corrective ; 
{c) developmental. Exercises benefiting the general nutri- 
tion consist principally of massive movements, and these 
may be either general or special. " General Massive 
Movements are those of the limbs and trunk which involve 
the whole bony and muscular structure of the body, and 
quickly and powerfully affect both respiration and the 
circulation. Types of such exercises are to be found in 
the natural play movements of children, such as running, 

* " The Syllabus of Physical Exercises for Public Elementary 
Schools, 1909." London : Wyman & Sons. 



I 



PHYSICAL EXERCISES AND GAMES 237 

leaping, and skipping, also in marching, dancing, cycling, 
and games of all kinds. . . . Among the Special Massive 
Movements may be included the various balance move- 
ments, shoulder exercises, and lunges. These have a 
beneficial effect upon the nervous system, and strengthen 
the control exercised by the nerve centres over the 
muscles." 

Corrective exercises are such as are designed to combat 
bodily defects, especially those associated with school 
work, with faulty positions of the desk, etc. 

The Developmental Effect is thus spoken of in the 
Introduction to the Syllabus : " One of the aims of 
Physical Training is to promote the development of the 
muscular system and the body as a whole, in order to 
attain the highest possible degree of all-round physical 
fitness. Physical Training has also an equally important 
influence on the development and specialization of the 
brain cells. 

" There are in the brain certain ' centres ' or masses 
of brain matter which preside over co-ordinated move- 
ments of all kinds. These centres begin to perform 
their functions in early life, when the child learns to 
stand, to walk, and to talk. As new movements are 
attempted, new centres become active, certain nerve 
impulses become more or less habitual, and thus new 
nerve paths are opened up and established, and the con- 
nections between the centres in different parts of the 
brain become increasingly well defined and co-related. 
It has been found that within reasonable limits the 
greater the scope of the physical education, the more 
complex and highly specialized and developed do these 
centres become." 

The Educational Effect is of great importance, and it 
is more definitely aimed at as the child grows older. In 
the case of the infant it has rightly but comparatively 



238 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

little place ; all that involves strained attention, all that 
would detract from the frankly physical effect of the 
exercise, is to be avoided. Hence exercises for infants 
for the most part fall under the heading of " nutritive " 
and " breathing " exercises. 

The utility of music in connection with physical 
exercises for young children is based upon the fact that 
it enhances this physical effect. Music assists in the carry- 
ing out of the movement, largely removes the necessity 
for thinking how to perform the act, adds to the pleasure 
of the exercises — increases, that is to say, their nutritive 
effect, and that, as we have seen, is the first consideration 
in the case of infants. As is, however, pointed out in 
the Report already alluded to, there may be an important 
educational element even in those exercises frankly 
designed for their physical effect. There may be great 
variety in the manner in which such exercises as skipping 
and hopping and even marching are carried out, great 
differences in the gracefulness of the action and in the 
ease with which such action is performed, and to insure 
these implies an educational process. In older children 
the teacher will need to be continually on the watch to 
maintain the educational effect. Thus what at first was 
a true educational process soon ceases largely to be so, 
and physical exercises mechanically given by a teacher 
only half-hearted in the work, rapidly lose their bene- 
ficial effect. Moreover, when interest and enjoyment 
cease to be taken by the children in the exercises, much 
of the physical effect is lost also. Perhaps no lesson in 
the curriculum provides a more severe test of the 
teacher's power of resourcefulness than that of physical 
exercises. 

In regard to the frequency with which Physical 
Exercises should be taken, it is suggested in the Syllabus 
that, "in order to obtain the best results from physical 



PHYSICAL EXERCISES AND GAMES 239 

training, it is very desirable that lessons of twenty to 
thirty minutes should be given as frequently as the 
curriculum will allow. At least there should be three 
or four periods in the week when physical exercise 
should be taken as a regular lesson, and if only a 
limited time is available in the week for this purpose, 
frequent lessons of short duration will be found more 
'profitable than longer lessons given at greater in- 
tervals (e.g. four lessons of fifteen minutes each are 
to be preferred to two lessons of half an hour)." In 
addition, however, to these more formal lessons frequent 
opportunity should be taken for carrying out more 
especially the " nutritive " exercises, since these will be 
found most valuable during the ordinary school work. 
Such can be given as a recreation while the children 
remain in their places, simple arm and bending-back 
movements being readily carried out ; breathing exer- 
cises, too, can in this way be given at odd moments. 
Or use may be made of the more massive forms of 
nutritive exercises, and the class may be marched round 
the classroom or sent into the playground or hall for a 
similar purpose. 

As already stated, physical exercises need to be 
carefully graduated to meet the sex and age of the 
children. Speaking generally, apparatus is neither re- 
quired nor advisable in the Elementary School, though 
staves or light dumb-bells may be introduced for the 
use of the older boys and girls, and, indeed, every 
effort should be made to make physical exercises 
attractive to these older children, since they are of 
special value to them. At the age of fourteen and 
over simple gymnastic apparatus may be introduced.* 

■'^See "Addendum on Gymnasium Equipment," pp. 302-308. 
Annual Report for 191 2 of the Chief Medical Officer of the Board 
of Education. 



240 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

As to th^ place where physical exercises should be 
given, there is, when the weather permits, no place like 
the open air. There are many days, however, when 
the wind or rain or both prevent their being taken out 
of doors ; there are days, too, when the sun is too hot 
to make out-of-door exercises advisable. A covered 
shed can, under these conditions, often be used, but not 
infrequently in winter it is necessary to be quite under 
cover. A large hall then is required, such as is often 
attached to the school ; and as we shall see in a later 
chapter, this function of the school hall needs to be 
kept well to the fore when planning the school. The 
central hall, so common in many schools, is ill-adapted 
for this purpose. To avoid disturbing other classes 
and to avoid raising dust in the school, as well as to 
make really efficient ventilation possible — a particularly 
important point in connection with the taking of 
physical exercises — the hall should be detached from 
the main part of the school building. This, too, 
enables it to be more satisfactorily used for the purposes 
of classes for physical exercises, held, for instance, in 
connection with the Evening School. 

A question arises as to how far the ordinary class 
teacher should be expected to be able to give in- 
struction in physical exercises. Generally speaking, it 
may be said that all who enter the teaching profession 
may reasonably be expected to be capable, physically 
and otherwise, of conducting these lessons. Physical 
training is now a compulsory subject in training 
colleges for men and women. A certain number of 
teachers already in the profession are able to give these 
lessons satisfactorily ; those who are not already pro- 
ficient would probably be desirous of attending evening 
classes in physical exercises conducted by a trained 
physical instructor if such classes were arranged by an 



PHYSICAL EXERCISES AND GAMES 241 

Education Authority. Although it is desirable to 
distribute the teaching of physical exercises as much 
as possible among the teachers, it is not in the interests 
of the children that a teacher who lacks interest in the 
subject or otherwise proves unsuitable should be asked 
to teach the exercises. 

To keep up the standard of the lessons in physical 
exercises, it will be necessary to have attached to the 
staff of an Education Authority one or more experts 
whose duties would include the visitation of the schools 
and the affording to teachers of assistance when taking 
the class or the giving of model lessons to the class. 
The expert would also be available for courses of 
lessons to the teachers ; if the Authority conducts a 
Training College, the same person should be responsible 
for the physical training of the students. The physical 
training of the boys and girls in the Municipal 
Secondary Schools might be added to the duties ; if, 
however, the expert be required to superintend or 
undertake the classes in physical exercises for children 
with defective physique (see p. 197), abundant work 
would be provided in the Elementary Schools. It is 
essential that the person selected to carry out these 
responsible duties should have undergone an adequate 
course of training at an institution qualified for this 
purpose : the usual length of such a course is two years, 
but in some institutions, in order to include adequate 
instruction in remedial exercises in the curriculum, it has 
been found necessary to add a third year to the course. 

Physical exercises make considerable demands 
upon the child, and damage may be done if children 
physically unfit are made to undergo them. There are 
few, however, who would not benefit by physical 
exercises of the right kind and not excessive in 
amount, so that the case for careful examination of the 
16 



242 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

children is all the more clear. The system of medical 
inspection now being inaugurated will, of course, be 
linked up with this part of the school curriculum. 
Especial care is necessary with children suffering from 
organic disease of the heart and lungs, for instance, or 
from anaemia, and no good can be expected to follow 
the practice of physical exercises by underfed children. 
Suitable clothing and proper shoes are essential in 
order to carry out physical exercises in a satisfactory 
manner. In the case of the majority of Elementary 
Schools practically no special attention is paid to either 
of these points, and indeed it seems at present hardly 
practicable to do so. More, however, might be done, and 
more probably would be done, if the Authority realized 
the importance of the matter, and in the Secondary 
School, at any rate, suitable clothing and shoes should 
be insisted upon. 

Games 

Games, as we have said, have a somewhat different 
function and place from that of physical exercises. 
They play a great part in maintaining the physical 
health of the child, and there is need for much more 
attention to them from the educationist's point of view. 
It is true that games can be over-organized, but never- 
theless satisfactory play is seldom seen among the 
Elementary School children, and this is so because out- 
side the Infants' School comparatively little attention 
is paid to the question. In many town schools, with 
their wholly inadequate playgrounds, but little can be 
done ; and apart from this, the Elementary School 
arrangements hardly permit of any progress in this 
direction. When the need for a more thorough 
physical education is once grasped, there can be no 
doubt that opportunity will be found for ensuring that 



PHYSICAL EXERCISES AND GAMES 243 

the children shall receive it. This requirement adds 
force to the argument in favour of the change of which 
we have already spoken, and of which we shall need 
to speak again — in favour, viz., of children going to 
school for the day. It will come to be recognized 
that children cannot be adequately educated during 
two sharply defined sessions, morning and afternoon. 
When children attend the whole day at school suitable 
arrangements can be made to ensure, in addition to an 
adequate midday meal, rest, if necessary sleep, and 
abundant physical exercise of all kinds. When such 
a change comes about, the ordinary school work will 
be found to have gained greatly. 

Further, it may be hoped that the time will come 
when playing fields will not be looked upon as an 
impossible luxury. In large cities and towns it is for 
the most part not possible to provide these, but on the 
outskirts, at any rate, it would be often quite feasible 
to do so, if only their place in the school curriculum 
were recognized. 

The Playground Movement in the United States of America 
has attained considerable success, especially in the Western States. 
Money spent in children's playgrounds is regarded as a good invest- 
ment. The movement has taken two forms. Where the local 
Board of Education has accepted the control of the playgrounds, 
the development has tended towards the school as a social centre ; 
in other cities, such as Chicago, separate Recreation Centres have 
been instituted. 

The arrangements in Gary, Indiana (population, 26,000 in 191 2), 
may be taken as an example of the former class. Extension play- 
grounds are attached to the schools, the latest school erected being 
built on 20 acres of ground. The playground is used continuously 
from about 8 o'clock in the morning onwards ; every child spends an 
hour in the playground both in the morning and afternoon. Such 
games as baseball, football, tennis, basket-ball, hand ball, etc., are 
played ; an outdoor and indoor gymnasium and a swimming bath 
with shower baths are provided ; sand pits, a wading pool, etc., are 



244 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

available for the smaller children. A playground teacher is always 
on duty. 

In Chicago all the playgrounds of the city have been placed 
under the control of one or other of the five Park Boards which 
have made such adequate provision of municipal playgrounds as to 
render additional provision by the Board of Education unnecessary, 

" The Field Houses with which every park and playground in 
Chicago is equipped are social centres from each of which is con- 
ducted a variety of enterprises by no means for the exclusive use 
of children. Each is fitted with an indoor gymnasium (for use when 
the weather is unfavourable to the use of the two outdoor gymnasia), 
a dancing hall, an auditorium for dramatic entertainments, a library, 
club rooms, playrooms, manual training rooms, and baths. Each 
Field House is the home of ten to a dozen clubs among the young 
people of the neighbourhood. These might be made up as 
follows : 5 social clubs for boys and girls (literary, debating, 
etc.), 3 athletic clubs (baseball, track athletics) ; i old scholars' 
club, high school fraternity, or lodge ; i dramatic club." * The 
Report emphasizes the importance of a sufficient supply of trained 
play leaders. Training courses in play for teachers and play leaders 
have been formed. The course for playground workers at the 
Chicago Training School extends over a year. Annual conferences 
are held ; the Sixth Annual Play Congress in 191 2 lasted four days 
and was attended by over 400 delegates from every part of the 
country. 

In the United Kingdom, organized play out of 
school hours must, to a considerable extent, depend 
upon voluntary effort. 

In many areas the Elementary School teachers 
have ungrudgingly devoted much of their spare time to 
training school children for contests at football, cricket, 
swimming, rounders, and athletic sports ; in order, 
however, to reach the large numbers of children who 
require to be taught how to play, an organized effort 
assisted by voluntary workers is required. 

The work of the London Evening Play Centres 

* The Playground Movement in America and its Relation to 
Public Education^ Walter Wood, Educational Pamphlet No. 27 
(Messrs. Eyre & Spottiswoode). 



PHYSICAL EXERCISES AND GAMES 245 

Committee serves as a model. It was initiated in 
1904 with a view to providing regular and organized 
recreation in some of the poorer and more crowded 
districts of London for Elementary School children 
after school hours in Council School buildings. The 
London Play Centres^ 15 in number, are open five 
evenings a week from 5.30 to 7.30 and on Saturday 
mornings. During the summer organized games play 
a large part, in the winter more time is devoted to 
organized manual work. The number of children on 
the roll of a centre is usually about 900, most of 
whom attend twice a week. To each centre are 
attached both paid and voluntary workers ; the cost 
is about ;^2 5o a year. 

A similar programme is carried out at Vacation 
Schools held in London and Liverpool. In London 
Vacation Playground Centres are available in many of 
those areas not provided with open spaces. For 200 
children the staff provided consists of a superintendent, 
an assistant superintendent, and a woman helper to 
look after the very young children. Any child of 
school age is admitted ; the necessary equipment for 
games and playthings for the infants is provided. A 
contribution to the maintenance of the Play Centres 
and Vacation Schools may be made by the County 
Councils and County Boroughs under the Adminis- 
tration Provisions (Education) Act, 1907. 

It is not possible in the space at our disposal to 
go more fully into the various forms which physical 
exercise may take ; to one, however, which is in some 
measure a connecting link between physical exercises 
and games, we may more especially allude, viz. 
Dancing. It is an excellent form of exercise for 
children, especially in the form of the healthful and 
beautiful old folk-dances now being revived, folk-dances 



246 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

belonging to all nationalities. These dances form an 
important part of the physical exercises as practised 
more particularly in the city of New York ; * and they 
are being gradually introduced into our own schools, 
and with them, also, many of the old country games. 
They have an excellent physical effect, due not only 
to the active exercise involved, but also to the vigour 
and delight with which the children enter into them. 
As corrective exercises, too, involving as they do 
perfect muscular co-ordinations, they are of great 
value. They can hardly be excelled for cultivating 
in children those ideas of beauty and rhythm which, 
owing to lack of education and opportunity for expres- 
sion, are so rare among the town children of to-day. 

We have so far spoken of physical exercises and 
games chiefly in relation to the Elementary School, but 
all that has been said holds with equal force in the 
case of Secondary Schools. Here, if anything, still 
greater attention needs to be paid to this aspect of 
education, since so much time is spent in book learning 
and other close work. In many Secondary Schools 
th'. physical requirements of the pupils are, however, 
seriously overlooked, and usually on the plea of lack 
of time. It need scarcely be pointed out that such a 
policy is a short-sighted one and defeats its own ends. 
The Secondary School, whether for boys or girls, re- 
quires as an essential part of its equipment a good 
gymnasium, swimming bath, and playing field. Care- 
ful medical inspection should, however, be linked with 
physical exercise of all kinds, such as has for long 
been carried out in many of the large public schools. 

* See " The Place and Limitations of Folk-Dancing as an 
Agency in Physical Training," Luther H. Gulick, M.D., Transac- 
tions of Second International Congress on School Hygiene (London : 
Royal Sanitary Institute, 1908). 



CHAPTER XIII 

OPEN-AIR EDUCATION 

Introductory — History of movement abroad and in England — 
Essentials and requirements — Site and surroundings — The school 
building — Equipment of the school — Size — Staffing— The school 
curriculum— Selection of the children — Duration of the stay — 
Feeding and clothing— Physical exercises — Bathing arrangements 
— Results, physical and educational — Cost — Open-air classrooms 
— Playground classes — Residential Open-Air Recovery Schools — 
Camp School — School journeys. 

THE movement in favour of open-air education 
owes its initiation to the necessity of provision 
for children who, by reason of physical defect of one 
kind or another, are unable to profit as they should do 
from the instruction given in the ordinary Elementary 
School, or for whom the surroundings and curriculum 
of the ordinary school are not suited. The majority 
of such children have no definite illness, they are 
rather the " delicate " and debilitated ; and this con- 
dition is for the most part closely connected with the 
influences of town or city life. Among the more 
definite physical defects from which these children 
suffer will be found the following in varying combina- 
tions : anaemia ; malnutrition ; enlarged glands ; enlarged 
tonsils ; adenoids ; ear discharge ; blepharitis ; pulmonary 
conditions, such as bronchial catarrh, bronchitis, phthisis, 
conditions left after pleurisy or empyaema ; disease of 



248 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

the heart ; tuberculosis in various forms, of bones, joints, 
glands, or as tuberculous peritonitis ; nervous affections, 
including " functional " conditions, such as hysteria ; and 
chorea. 

Mental backwardness is often closely associated 
with the physical defect, and is frequently, indeed, 
actually caused by it. This may be readily under- 
stood when it is remembered that the causes of the 
physical defect have often been operating continuously 
from infancy, and in some cases from the day of birth, 
and for this reason a considerable proportion of these 
children is to be found in the lower standards. It 
must not, however, be assumed that all children physi- 
cally debilitated are backward mentally ; such is some- 
times far from being the case. They may, on the 
contrary, be particularly sharp at their school work, 
and, in their keenness to excel, their physical con- 
dition may suffer. This class of child is found more 
especially among the upper standards and among 
children from better-class homes. 

For all children, then, such as the above the 
ordinary school is not suited ; its surroundings are 
often unsatisfactory, but, equally important, its curri- 
culum is unsuitable. They need fresh air at all times 
— not merely when they happen to be out of doors — 
good food, sufficient rest, exercise suitable in kind and 
amount, less formal instruction, together with any 
medical treatment which may be indicated. 

History of the Movement 

The home of the Open-Air Recovery School is in 
Germany, where, at Charlottenburg in 1904, the first 
school of this kind was opened. An excellent account 
of the school is given in The Childi-en of the Nation, 



OPEN-AIR EDUCATION 249 

by Sir John Gorst, written shortly after his visit to the 
school about a year after its inception* We are, 
however, more especially indebted to the Education 
Committee of the London County Council for bringing 
this question prominently before the educational 
authorities of this country.f 

The experiment at Charlottenburg was the direct 
result of the association of the educationist and the 
medical officer. A large number of backward children 
about to be removed from the ordinary Elementary 
Schools to special backward classes were found to be in 
a debilitated condition caused by anaemia and various 
incipient diseases. In order that the instruction of these 
children might be carried on at the same time as the cure 
of their ailment, special arrangements were made to pro- 
vide a modified curriculum under conditions likely to 
improve the physical state of the children. 

The hours of formal instruction were halved, and 
the classes reduced to about 25. Some of the memory 
ballast of the Elementary School curriculum was 
abandoned in favour of instruction in a more concrete 
manner rendered possible by the out-of-doors conditions. 
The instruction was afforded under open-air conditions 
in satisfactory surroundings ; careful medical supervision 
of the children was provided, and arrangements made 
for suitable feeding and exercise. 

In structure the school at Charlottenburg was as 
simple as possible, consisting of (i) a plain shed for use 
when the weather was wet, either for teaching purposes 

* The Children of the Nation^ Sir J. E. Gorst (London : Methuen, 
1906). 

t In May, 1908, the Committee published the Report of the 
Assistant Educational Adviser, Dr. Frederick Rose, giving details 
of the principal Open- Air Schools in Germany, and many of the 
following particulars are taken from that Report. 



250 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

or for use during the period of rest, (2) a more sub- 
stantial school building for use during very cold or bad 
weather, (3) large sheds for meals or other purposes, 
(4) a number of small sheds to hold a class of 
children when protection from rain or sun might be 
necessary. 

Open- Air Recovery Schools in England. 

The first school of this kind to be started in Eng- 
land was the one carried on under the London County 
Council at Bostall Wood towards the end of the summer 
of 1907. A full report of this experiment is given 
in the Report of the Education Committee already 
referred to. 

In the following summer (1908) this experiment 
in London was still further developed, and three similar 
experimental schools were opened in the provinces, 
namely, at Norwich, Halifax, and Bradford respectively. 
The school at Norwich, it is interesting to note, was 
opened for mentally defective children only. 

Day Open- Air Schools are now provided in addition 
at Sheffield, Birmingham, Darlington, Kettering, Lincoln, 
Bristol, York, Abertillery, and Aberdare. In view of 
the fact that the Day Open-Air Recovery School is the 
parent of several institutions described below, a con- 
sideration in some detail of the essentials and require- 
ments of the primary institution should be useful, and 
may be reviewed under the following headings : — 

1. The site and surroundings. 

2. The school buildings. 

3. The equipment of the school. 

4. The size of the school. 

5. The staffing of the school. 

6. The school curriculum. 



OPEN-AIR EDUCATION 251 

7. The selection of the children. 

8. The duration of the stay. 

9. The feeding of the children. 

10. The clothing of the children. 

11. Physical exercises and games. 

12. Bathing arrangements. 

I 3. The results, physical and educational. 

1 4. The cost of the school. 



I. The Site and Surroundings 

The site, it goes without saying, must be well 
removed from the town, and as thoroughly in the open 
country as is compatible with proximity to a large 
town. It must be ample enough, as open as possible, 
and yet with sufficient shelter. A large field in one 
corner of which the main buildings can be placed, sur- 
rounded, as far as possible, by woods and rising ground 
to form a shelter from the prevailing winds, is the kind 
of situation required. An elevated site is to be pre- 
ferred, and it is essential that the soil should be dry 
and pervious, with a good natural drainage. The Open- 
Air School at Charlottenburg is situated, as are also 
many of the other schools in Germany previously 
mentioned, in the heart of the pine-wood. 



2. The School Buildings 

The one thing essential about these buildings is 
that they should be simple : this does not mean, how- 
ever, that they need be built as if intended for tempor- 
ary buildings only. As has already been pointed out, 
the lessons, so far as practicable, are given in the open 
air, but there are times when either rain or too great 
heat make this impossible, and for such occasions sheds 




fc^ J u 



OPEN-AIR EDUCATION 253 

are needed, or what will serve a similar purpose, a 
veranda. There may be several such sheds in different 
parts of the site according to the requirements of the 
school. In addition to these, however, structures allow- 
ing of more shelter will also be necessary, especially if 
the school is to be open all the year round ; they will be 
needed not infrequently also in the summer in the more 
northern latitudes. 

Although the provision of entirely new buildings 
especially designed for the purpose is desirable, existing 
school premises or even private houses can in some 
cases be suitably altered. 

The use of discarded battleships and disused 
passenger steamboats as Open-Air Schools has been 
suggested. 

3. The Equipment of the School 

The classrooms should allow of 20 square feet of 
floor space to each child, and should accommodate from 
20 to 25 children in each. Each child should be 
supplied with its own desk and seat, which should be 
separated and constructed in as light a manner as 
possible consistent with utility ; the chairs, it should be 
remembered, it will be necessary to carry into the fields 
and woods. Three sizes at least should be made, so 
that each child may have the size as nearly as possible 
appropriate. Simply constructed tables or benches 
will also be required for manual work ; indeed, if pre- 
ferred, desks may be entirely replaced by tables. Then, 
too, provision must be made for the children while 
resting. For this purpose deck chairs are unsuitable ; 
for many children they are too small, and, moreover, 
do not permit of their lying sufficiently flat. A simple 
kind of hammock bed is, perhaps, the most satisfactory 



254 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

arrangement for this purpose. Each child should have 
his or her own numbered warm blanket or rug for use 
while resting. Other points in the equipment will be 
referred to under separate headings. 



4. The Size of the School 

Granted that sufficient children require this form of 
treatment, a school making provision for, say, 120 
children is to be preferred to several small ones. 
Classification of the children, and consequently of the 
teaching, is thereby simplified, and the cost per head 
reduced. There is, moreover, a considerable advantage 
in having children of different ages at the same school, 
since the older children, both boys and girls, can do 
much to assist in one way or another in the general 
and domestic work of the school. Every endeavour 
should be made to cultivate a family and communal 
feeling, and since the children at an Open-Air School 
remain at school for the day, an excellent opportunity 
is afforded for doing this. A further advantage of a 
reasonably large school is that some of the children 
need the attention of a school nurse, and it is hardly 
feasible to arrange for a nurse to visit daily if there 
are only perhaps one or two children requiring her 
attention. 



5. The Staffing of the School 

One teacher will be required for every 20 or 25 
children. A caretaker will be necessary, who, in 
addition to attending to the school and being a 
handy man about the premises, will assist in the 
bathing of the boys. In a school of the size sug- 
gested, two women helpers will be needed, one to 



OPEN-AIR EDUCATION 255 

do the cooking and one to assist the cook and to 
help in the bathing of the girls. A nurse will be 
required to visit daily. 

6. The School Curriculum 

Here much elasticity should be allowed and 
appropriate opportunity given for experiments. It 
must be borne in mind that the children are at the 
school primarily on account of their physical condition, 
and all arrangements must be subservient to this fact. 
The ingenuity of the teacher will be severely taxed, 
and aptitude for adaptation should be one of the main 
points looked to when selecting teachers for these 
schools. Every subject should be presented in as 
concrete a manner as possible, and full advantage 
taken of the various objects surrounding the child in 
the fields and woods. Arithmetic,- in particular, lends 
itself to this form of treatment, while ample scope is 
afforded for the teaching of geography by large 
models, which the children can be taught how to 
make. 

As pointed out in the Report to the London 
County Council already referred to, " Relief maps are 
constructed in sand, the configuration of the surround- 
ing country explained, mountain ranges made to scale, 
and almost all geographical definitions suitably illus- 
trated. To give but one example : a little rivulet is 
arranged with natural or artificial supply of water, and 
the action of the water upon the earth's surface shown 
with the greatest ease. Tributaries, rapids, streams, 
lakes, canals, and locks are in this manner explained. 
Further, the action of running water upon river banks, 
the carrying of suspended mineral matter by rivers, 
the silting up of river beds, the formation of deltas, 



256 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

the cause of floods, the importance of irrigation works, 
are brought home to the children's minds with the 
greatest ease." 

As regards the arrangement of the time-table, 
there is room for much elasticity, but the more usual 
school subjects, such as reading, writing, and arithmetic, 
may well be taken chiefly in the morning, the after- 
noon being reserved more especially for manual work. 
There is not at an Open-Air School, as a matter of fact, 
any necessarily very hard-and-fast line between work 
and play, since rambles in the wood, for example, may 
well partake of the character of both. The time given 
strictly to lessons should not exceed about three and 
a half hours per day, two hours in the morning and an 
hour and a half in the afternoon. Then time must be 
allotted to physical exercises, not less than ten minutes 
per day, with longer lessons twice weekly. Odd 
minutes for breathing exercises may be taken as often 
as desired. The rest of the time will be occupied with 
meals, play, and rest. This latter is recognized as 
being most important, and is a special feature of all 
Open-Air Schools. One and a half to two hours' rest 
should be allowed for all the children. The children 
are very restless at first, but soon grow accustomed to 
remaining quiet, and many fall asleep. The following 
may be taken to represent approximately the skeleton 
time-table ; modification will be required according to 
the time of the year : — 



8.45 a.m. . 

9.30-10.30 

10.30-10.45 

10.45-11.45 
11.45-12.15 
12.15 p.m. . 
12.45-2.15- 
2.15-2.45 . 



Breakfast. 

Ordinary school work. 

Interval. 

Ordinary school work. 

Play. 

Dinner. 

Rest. 

Play. 



OPEN-AIR 


EDUCATION 257 


2.45-3.45 


. School work. Out-door lessons, 




as, for example, nature study 




geography, etc. 


345-4.0 . 


. Interval. 


4.0-4.30 . . . . 


School work. 


4.30-5.0 . 


Play. 


5.0 


Tea. 


5.45-6.30 


Play. 



7. The Selection of the Children 

The kind of children for whom the Open-Air 
School is intended has already been intimated. 
Though children from the poorer districts will pre- 
dominate, still it must always be remembered that the 
physical condition, and not the poverty of the child, is 
the passport to the Open-Air School. Experience 
has shown the advantage of selecting children from 
homes where thoughtful and interested co-operation 
can be secured. It is very desirable that the school 
nurse should visit the parents of the children at their 
homes to interest the mothers in the treatment, and 
advise them, if necessary, as to any modification of the 
home conditions required. 

In the children who attended the Bostall Wood 
Open-Air School, the following ailments were discovered 
on examination : — 



Glands in neck markedly enlarged 

Marked anaemia . 

Enlarged tonsils . 

Adenoids (nasal obstruction) 

Heart disease 

Consumption of lungs 

Bronchiectasis 

Slight lung symptoms, clearing up during attend 

ance, and probably due to adenoids 
Enlarged glands in chest . 
Chorea (St. Vitus' dance) . 
17 



63 
47 
27 

7 
6 

I 
I 

4 
4 
2 



258 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

Bone diseases — 
Old tuberculous disease of spine . . i 

Old necrosis . . . . .2 

' Lateral curvature . . . . i 

Eye diseases — corneal ulceration and inflamma- 
tion of eyelids . . . . -4 

Thirteen children showed marked signs of tuber- 
culous diathesis, i of hydrocephalus, i of congenital 
syphilis, and 4 evidence of damage through infantile 
rickets. 

Similarly, the following conditions were found in 
the 40 children attending the Open-Air School at 
Bradford : — 



Consumption of lungs . . presc 


jnt in 2 


Tuberculous peritonitis . . , 


, I 


Tuberculous scars of neck . , 


» 2 


Bronchitis ... , 


, I 


Adenoids .... , 


7 


Ear discharge ... , 


> 2 


Rickets .... , 


5 


Anaemia . . ; . , 


18 


Enlarged submaxillary glands . , 


28 


Eczema .... , 


> 2 


Inflammation of eyelids . . , 


, 2 


Inflammation of cornea . . , 


, I 



There is no objection to including in the admission 
to an Open-Air School children suspected only of 
suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis, or indeed those 
actually suffering, but who are free from any cough or 
expectoration. 



8. The Duration of the Stay 

The children attend an Open-Air School to secure 
permanent benefit, and accordingly it is unavailing to 
send them for short periods of a few weeks only. 
Many of the children require a six months' stay, and 



OPEN-AIR EDUCATION 259 

for others again it is the only form of school really 
suitable. It is the rule now for the Day Open-Air 
School to be kept open throughout the year. 



9. The Feeding of the Children 

Three meals a day should be provided. 

More frequent provision is unnecessary other than 
in quite exceptional cases. The following is the menu 
provided at the Open- Air School at Bradford : — 

Breakfast. — Porridge with treacle ; milk (half-pint) ; 
bread (brown or white) and margarine. 

(Practically all the children if encouraged will eat 
porridge after the first day or two, even though they 
have never previously been accustomed to take it ; 
there is nothing more satisfactory.) 

Dinner, — The first and second courses were chosen 
from among the following : — 

First Course. — Scotch barley broth ; tomato soup ; 
meat and vegetable soup ; haricot bean or lentil soup ; 
meat and potato hash ; shepherds' pie, gravy and green 
peas (or carrots and turnips) ; Yorkshire pudding, with 
gravy and green peas ; cottage pie (meat and potato, with 
crust) and green peas ; stewed beef, with onions, carrots, 
and turnips ; stewed fish, parsley sauce, mashed potatoes 
and green peas. Second Course. — Sultana or jam 
roly-poly pudding ; fruit tarts ; baked currant pudding 
and sweet sauce ; baked jam roll ; boiled fruit pudding 
(plum or apple) ; milk pudding in variety with stewed 
fruit ; boiled rice and sultanas ; cornflour blancmange. 

Tea. — Milk (half-pint); bread (brown or white); 
margarine or jam ; wholemeal cake occasionally. 

The most scrupulous attention should be paid to the 
education of the children at meal-times ; no other oppor- 
tunity for true education can be considered of greater 



26o THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

value than this. The children should wash their hands 
and faces and tidy their hair. The older boys and girls 
should help in the serving. Politeness and attention 
to one another, especially of the boys to the girls, should 
be expected. The use of knife and fork and spoon 
should be taught, and generally how to take a meal in 
a civilized manner. Flowers gathered by the children 
should be on the tables, and certain children should be held 
responsible for seeing they are gathered and arranged. 

While due consideration is paid to the idiosyncrasies 
of the children it must be remembered that, in the great 
majority of cases, if children refuse to eat what is put 
before them, it is often because they are unaccustomed 
to the diet. By firmness and small helpings at first, 
the likes and dislikes of children, as experience has 
abundantly shown, can be greatly reduced : it is largely, 
though of course not entirely, so far as good plain food 
is concerned, a question of training. 

lo. The Clothing of the Children 

This is always a difficult question, but there should 
be no distinction among the children as shown by 
clothing, for self-respect should be one of the chief 
lessons inculcated. 

It is imperative that each child has warm under- 
clothing and an appropriate suit or costume, with a 
pair of strong boots. Caps will be needed if the sun 
is hot, but not otherwise. 'Each boy should be pro- 
vided with an overcoat, and each girl with an overall, 
for use when sitting out of doors in cold weather, and 
each child should have a light mackintosh for use in 
wet weather. In cases where assistance in the matter 
of clothing is necessary, this may be given by the Edu- 
cation Committee, who have full power where the school 



OPEN-AIR EDUCATION 261 

is sanctioned under the Education (Defective and 
Epileptic) Act to provide it, or application should be 
made to some charitable organization. 



II. Physical Exercises and Games 

These should receive special attention. There 
should be systematic drill suited to the age and capa- 
city of the child for a short time each day, and also for 
a longer period once or twice a week, while, as already 
mentioned, breathing exercises can be carried out at any 
time during the day, at the beginning or end of a lesson, 
for instance. 

The Open-Air Recovery School presents an excellent 
opportunity for teaching the children organized games 
of all sorts, since for the most part they are strangely 
ignorant of how to play. Capacity for arranging this 
part of the school curriculum should be especially 
required when selecting a teacher. Such physical 
exercise must not, of course, be overdone, but then 
individual treatment of the child is pre-supposed at an 
Open-Air School. Some of the Morris dances and old 
English games will find an appropriate setting in the 
life and surroundings of the Open-Air School. 

12. Bathing Arrangements 

Shower baths are a desirable part of the equip- 
ment ; they are needed not only from a cleansing point 
of view, but they constitute an excellent form of treat- 
ment when rightly given. A shower may advantage- 
ously be given to each child every day, unless there is 
some good reason to the contrary. In the hot weather 
it may be a cold shower only as a matter of routine, a 
hot shower preceding it for cleansing purposes as often 



262 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

as necessary, say once or twice a week. In the colder 
weather a hot shower should first be given, whether 
needed for cleansing purposes or not; a cold shower 
should always be given at the finish, and the child be 
well rubbed down, and then made to dress quickly. 
Granted that sufficient showers are provided, the 
bathing of the children can be quickly carried out. 
Should a bathing-pool be available for diving and 
swimming, it would of course be a great acquisition 
for use by suitable children. 

13. The Results 

{a) Physical. — The testimony in favour of the 
Open- Air School from this point of view is, as indeed 
one might expect, overwhelmingly convincing. In the 
Report of the Bostall Wood Open-Air School already 
referred to, Dr. James Kerr gives interesting details 
as to the benefit derived. As he says : " The results of 
attendance from the points of view of health and 
physical improvement were satisfactory, whether judged 
from the appearance and demeanour of the children, 
the detailed notes taken of the progress of each child, 
or the statistical evidence given in the tables." In the 
Bradford Report already referred to, the results are 
considered under the following headings : — 

I. General appearance and carriage. 

II. Effect on nutrition as shown by the weight. 

III. Effect on the proportion of haemoglobin in 
the blood. 

IV. Effect on chest girth measurement. 

The following extracts from the Report will illus- 
trate what may be expected in the matter of improve- 
ment in the physical condition from the treatment at 
an Open-Air School : — 



OPEN-AIR EDUCATION 



263 



" I. General Appearance and Carriage 

" This was very striking after a week or two, and 
cannot well be expressed in words. The children 
brightened up obviously in appearance and expression. 
The improvement in appearance was greatly assisted by 
the bathing and by attention to the hair, each girl 
having her own brush and comb. Improvement, too, 
was made in the matter of clothing. 



"II. Effect of Nutrition as shown by the Weight 

" The children gained weight in a very satisfactory 
manner, as reference to the chart will show. The 
average gain per child was steady each week for the 



«IL0&RA««t5 
























ovncii 


1.6 






























h? 


































17 






























Mt 


































16 




















' s, 










^ft 




















y 














l,S 
















^ 




<j 


S 








V4 


















y 




- 


s 










1,4 






















s. 








jia_ 
















y^ 








N 








\.b 














7^- 










s 




. 


4S} 


























\^ 


. — ■^ 






• ? 












y 








w 










4P 












^ 























1 1 










r 





















SK» 












/ 










r 












1 P 









































/ 












■n 












? 








/ 
































/ 
























6 








/ 






















?A 








/ 
























■ 7 






























?41 








/ 


























6 






/ 






















^ 


, 








/ 




















^ — ^ 






5 






,/ 


















^ ^ ' 














/ 


























•4 




1 


























14- 






































J 












^ " 




















/ 










— ' 






















/ 








- ' 
























/ 






•' -' 






















. 1 






























,, 




J 




• 




























i.- 
































il 


4 


II 


IS 


i-i 


i. 


9 


16 


t> 


JO 


6 


li 


10 


IT 




AVCl/M 


StPTEABtK 


OCTODtR 


AOvtnote 



Fig. II. — Chart showing the average weekly gain or loss in weight of 
children attending the Open-Air Recovery School at Bradford. The 
broken line shows the average increase (approximately) which takes place 
in the case of children, similar to the above, under ordinary conditions. 



264 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

first month, and after that steady, but, of course, less 
marked. At the end of the first month the average 
gain was 1-14 kilos (2 lb. 8 oz.), or approximately as 
much as these children would under ordinary conditions 
have gained in six months. At the end of the nine 
weeks the average gain per week was o*io kilos 
(3 J oz.) — that is to say, as much again as under 
ordinary conditions. 

"The highest gain was 3*05 (6 lb. 11 oz.). 

4 gained over 2'o kilos (4 lb. 6 oz.) 

12 gained 1*5 „ (3 ib. 5 oz.) to to kilos (4 lb. 6 oz.) 
17 „ I'o „ (2lb. 3 oz.) „ 1-5 „ (31b. 5 oz.) 

4 » 0-5 „ (i lb. ij oz.) „ vo „ (2 lb. 3 oz.) 

2 „ under 0*5 „ (i lb. ij oz.) 

" It must not be expected that every child at an 
Open-Air School will necessarily gain in weight. 
Some children may be very suitable subjects for such 
treatment, who are nevertheless of good nutrition to 
start with; others may be even unhealthily heavy, as 
may be seen to be the case in rickety children. One 
of the children who improved greatly out at Thackley 
was a rickety child who showed practically no increase 
in weight. 

"III. Effect on the Proportion of Hcemoglobin in 
the Blood 

" The red colour of the blood is due to the presence 
in the red blood corpuscles of a definite chemical sub- 
stance known as haemoglobin. This body plays a very 
important part in carrying the oxygen from the air in 
the lungs to all the tissues of the body, and the pro- 
portion in which it is present in the blood is a valuable 
indication of the degree of anaemia present and of the 
condition of the child's health. 



OPEN-AIR EDUCATION 



265 



interesting. 



The improvement produced in this respect is 
It is more marked than I should have 
expected, but the greatest possible care was taken to 
ensure that the technique of the examinations, made 
on entering and on leaving the school, was the same 
in each case. The estimation of the haemoglobin was 
made by means of a Von Fleischl's haemoglobinometer. 
. . . The general results are shown in the following 
table : — 



Haemoglobin on admission 


(lOO 






being taken as " normal ") — 


Boys, 


Girls 


Less than 70 per cent. 


. 


I 


I 


Between 70 and 75 per 


cent. 


3 


I 


„ 75 and 80 per 


cent. 


5 


6 


„ 80 and 85 per 


cent. 


6 


4 


„ 85 and 90 per 


cent. 


2 


4 


Increase in haemoglobin — 








Stationary . 




I 


3 


Under 5 per cent. . 




3 





5 to 10 per cent. . 




5 


5 


10 to 15 per cent. . 




3 


5 


15 to 20 per cent. . 




3 


2 


20 to 25 per cent. . 




2 


I 



"In the following is given a summary of the 
above : — 

Average percentage of haemoglobin on 

admission (normal being represented Boys. Girls, 

by 100) . . . . . 78 80 

Average percentage of haemoglobin on 

leaving . . . . . 88 90 

Average increase per cent. . . 10 10 



" IV. Effect on Chest Girth Measurements 

" The chest measurements were taken on admission 
and on leaving ; in each case the measurement was 



266 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 



Boys. 


Girls 


I 


o 


o 


I 


5 


8 


4 


6 


5 


3 


o 


o 


o 


I." 



just below the nipple at the end of full inspiration and 
of full expiration respectively. The following table 
gives a summary of the results obtained by comparing 
the measurements in full inspiration at the beginning 
and end of the experiment. . . . This increase repre- 
sents improved power of chest expansion ; part, but 
only a very small part of the increase, might be due to 
the chest wall being better covered owing to the im- 
proved condition of the child. 

"Increase in the Chest Girth on Full Inspiration 



Nil 

Less than ^ inch 

^ to I inch 

1 to i^ inch 

I J to 2 inches . 

2 to 2^ inches . 
2j to 3 inches . 



The most satisfactory tests, however, are the results 
as shown in improvement in the general health of the 
child or even cure of the complaint, and the regularity 
of attendance at school, not only during the stay at 
the Open-Air School but also when subsequently in 
attendance at the ordinary school. 

(J?) Educational.' — A considerable increase in the 
attention and mental alertness of the children is 
observed during instruction at the Open-Air School. 

On return to the ordinary Elementary School almost 
all the children are able to rejoin their classes and 
carry out their school tasks in the same manner as the 
other children in the class : no ground has been lost 
by attendance at the Open-Air School. In certain 
instances improvement in this respect is seen. A 
valuable result also achieved is the great improvement 
observable in the moral tone of the children. They 



OPEN-AIR EDUCATION 267 

become more orderly, cleanly, and punctual, more self- 
reliant and good-tempered. This may be attributed in 
a considerable degree to the advantage these children 
are afforded of constant intercourse with the teachers 
outside the ordinary school hours. 



14. The Cost of the School 

No general statement can be made as to the total 
cost involved in the establishment of an Open-Air 
Recovery School, as so much depends on local circum- 
stances. One is bound to admit that the outlay 
is in addition to what is already being spent, since 
no other schools or classes are closed because an 
Open-Air Recovery School is opened. In some 
places the question of site may be a somewhat 
serious one, though since it is necessary to have 
the school well removed from city or town, so long 
as it can be approached by car, the land required 
can usually be bought or rented at a comparatively 
low figure. 

The building need not be costly ; simplicity should 
be everywhere the keynote. The cost of maintaining 
the school compared with that of maintaining an 
ordinary school will be greater in proportion as the 
Education Committee have to pay for the food and 
car-fares of the children. The teachers' salaries, too, 
are likely to be on a somewhat higher scale than that 
of teachers in the ordinary school, but against this it 
must be remembered that the school earns a higher 
grant per child from the Board of Education. 

Though established primarily from the point of view 
of securing the physical health of the child, these 
schools present much interest from the educational 
standpoint. They afford valuable object lessons in 



268 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

educational method and practice, and it will be interest- 
ing to note the result in particular in regard to 
children who attend year after year. 

There has been a gradual introduction of the spirit, 
and to a considerable degree of the method, of the 
Day Open-air Recovery School into the ordinary 
Elementary School. 

Open-air classrooms are available in certain areas. 
They may constitute one of the classrooms specially 
built for the purpose attached to an ordinary school 
(Swansea, Bradford, Northampton), or the whole of the 
school may be built on open-air lines (Brynaerau and 
Four Crosses in Carnarvonshire, New Earswick near 
York, and Brighton). 

The effect may be produced by increasing the ordinary window 
space so considerably that when open the class is practically in the 
open air. In other instances the result is effected by a very large 
folding window resembling a shop front in size ; practically the 
whole of the side of the classroom facing the south is taken up by 
the window which opens out on to a veranda or is otherwise 
shaded by a shop-blind of the usual form. 

The majority of such classrooms are found in newly built 
schools, but one of the rooms of an existing school can be converted 
into an open-air classroom by the substitution of large windows 
for the walls, etc. 

The advisability of such a conversion should be considered in 
the case of those schools with satisfactory surroundings in which 
the School Medical Officer finds a sufficiently large number of 
debilitated children. 

Playground classes were inaugurated by the 
London County Council in 1909, in connection with 
the Elementary Schools, and are now in existence in at 
least fifteen other areas. 

Such classes are especially useful for a milder type 
of case than is found at the Day Open-Air Recovery 
School. 



OPEN-AIR EDUCATION 269 

These children, suffering from catarrhal conditions 
(including bronchitis, moderate degrees of enlargement 
of the tonsils, nasal obstruction, ear discharge, and 
external eye disease), moderate degrees of anaemia, and 
unstable nervous systems, profit by such arrangements. 
They are, however, not suitable for children suffering 
from pulmonary tuberculosis, rheumatic manifestations, 
or heart disease. 

Playground classes have also been formed of all 
the children working in the same standard of a school ; 
experience in London has shown that only in the case 
of well-cared-for children is the class of benefit. 

Open spaces and parks, etc., are better than play- 
grounds which are often hot and dusty ; playground 
shelters are usually insufficiently lighted to serve the 
purpose adequately. 

Trestle tables or light-folding desks and chairs 
should be supplied. 

Residential Open-Air Recovery Schools 

The movement has also extended in the direction 
of provision of open-air educations for children whose 
physical condition is such that they require prolonged 
periods of treatment at a Residential Open - Air 
Recovery School. 

Such an institution is also useful for children 
belonging to rural areas where day Open-Air Recovery 
Schools cannot conveniently be established. 

Residential Open-Air Recovery Schools approxi- 
mate closely to the nature of a Sanatorium or Hospital. 
Children suitable for such treatment include those 
suffering from rickets, malnutrition, anaemia, debility, or 
a recent attack of heart disease. 

An excellent example of such an institution is the 



270 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

Ogilvie Residential School of Recovery at Clacton-on- 
Sea, with accommodation for 40 children. 

A relatively inexpensive arrangement providing for 
the open-air education of a large number of children is 
a Camp School* 

At Bradford during the summer of 191 3 such a 
school was instituted ; six tents, each capable of 
accommodating forty children, and a large dining-tent 
were provided. A modified time-table was drawn up, 
and a midday meal served to all the children. 

School Journeys 

An attractive form of education in the open-air is 
afforded by school journeys. Probably many Educa- 
tion Authorities make arrangements for school journeys 
lasting a part of a day : although these afford valuable 
instruction, journeys of longer duration offer an oppor- 
tunity for education far beyond the scope of short 
journeys. An admirable report on the prolonged type 
of school journey is given in Dr. Kerr's Annual 
Report to the Education Committee of the London 
County Council for 19 10 (pp. 81 and 124), where he 
states that during the last three years a very pleasant 
form of education extensively used on the Continent, and 
of a more real tind than the classroom can give, has 

* In the Parkes Museum at the Royal Sanitary Institute is a 
model of a boys' Camp School, showing fittings for beds, lockers, 
blackboards, map-making on floor, tables, benches, etc. 

From 40 to 50 boys sleep in an open pavilion both winter and 
summer at Deptford. They are given breakfast and supper, and 
spend two hours a day at home, also Saturdays and Sundays. 
Before the War the parents paid is. a week ; the capital expenditure 
was £2 for each child, the cost of his education and residence was 
^9 a year. See also The Camp School^ by Miss Margaret McMillan 
(P. S. King & Son Ltd.). 



OPEN-AIR EDUCATION 271 

been spreading steadily in the form of school journeys, 
and he is of opinion that these should be encouraged in 
every way possible and regarded as most serious and 
valuable methods of education. There may be some 
risks of subjecting ill-nourished and debilitated children 
to prolonged physical efforts, and for this reason a 
a large number of journeys has been investigated by 
Dr. Clive Riviere, who has endeavoured to assess the 
physical conditions of the children before and after 
their excursion and to relate his findings to the various 
conditions of the journey. He finds that the boys 
looked the best who have spent a rambling seaside 
holiday. All the children benefited in some way for 
the change, some more than others ; increase in height 
and weight was observed. 

Children with slight bronchial catarrh and 
" functional " cardiac conditions benefit by the journey, 
but require especial care in their selection and super- 
vision. 

A certain amount of mental work may with 
advantage be included. 

As a rule it is not advisable to take children under 
8 years of age. 



CHAPTER XIV 

THE SCHOOL MEDICAL SERVICE AND 
JUVENILE EMPLOYMENT 

Influence of employment on physical condition of children — 
Acts of Parliament — Lifting of excessive weights — Street-trading — 
Suitable employment for physical condition — Medical examination 
of employed school children — Limited scope of Factory Surgeon — 
Medical examination of employed children. 

THE employment of children has excited public 
interest for many years, chiefly on account of 
the gross neglect or even cruelty that has been 
associated with the factory employment of children. 
But there is much juvenile employment outside factories, 
and the time is now ripe for a wider consideration of 
the matter. The employment of children may take 
place as follows : — 

(i) Before or after school-hours or during the midday 
interval, the children being in attendance at school. 

(2) During school-hours, the children (aged 12 to 
14) being either partially or totally exempted from 
school attendance. 

(3) Between the ages of 14 and 16. 

Abundant evidence is forthcoming to show that 

employment of children contemporary with their 

attendance at Elementary Schools has a deleterious 

influence on their physical condition. Dr. C. J. 

Thomas examined 400 wage-earning boys attending 

public Elementary Schools in London ; the boys were 

272 



I 



JUVENILE EMPLOYMENT 



273 



employed in the delivery of newspapers, milk, grocery, 
etc., and as lather-boys in barbers' shops. The relative 
prevalence of certain defects (viz. signs of fatigue, 
anaemia, severe nerve signs, deformities, and severe 
heart signs) among all the boys attending the schools 
of the district and the wage-earning boys were ascer- 
tained, evidence having been obtained to the effect 
that the employed boys were not, to begin with, of a 
physically inferior type. The results are shown in the 
following table : — 



Hours worked Weekly. 


Hi 


.i 


c4 




OT 


m 




^^ 




< 


^^^ 


t 


wWw 






Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 






cent. 


cent. 


cent. 


cent. 


cent. 


All schoolboys of district 














(workers and non-workers) 


3700 


— 


2.S 


24 


8 


8 


Working 20 or less hours 


163 


50 


.34 


28 


15 


II 


Working 20 to 30 hours 


86 


81 


47 


44 


21 


15 


Working over 30 hours 


95 


«3 


45 


50 


22 


20 



The inquiry also showed that a severe degree of 
deterioration of the school-work of the wage-earning 
boys had taken place. Very much the same results 
were manifested by an inquiry instituted by the Home 
Office into the employment and hours of labour of 
school children in Devonshire. Mr. Pope, who con- 
ducted the inquiry, held that " it was proved that not 
only in urban areas but in rural areas as well through- 
out the county, a substantial number of children are 
being employed in such a way as to hinder materially 
their education, and in many cases to undermine in 
some degree their health." * 

* Report to the Home Secretary on the Byelaw made by the 
Devon County Council under the Employment of Children Act, 
1903, by Samuel Pope, Barrister-at-Law [Cd. 6988], 19 13. 
18 



274 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

In certain areas, especially in industrial centres, the 
extent of the evil is considerably increased by the 
practice of employing school children half-time on 
their reaching the age of i 2 years. The numbers of 
such children in England and Wales is about 35,000. 

As stated in the Annual Report of the Chief 
Medical Officer of the Board of Education for 191 3, 
" The objection to the half-time system is in the main 
an educational one. Manual work of the right kind 
and engaged in during reasonable hours and under 
suitable conditions is advantageous, and children prob- 
ably suffer from lack of it rather than from excess of 
it. It is, however, extremely doubtful whether work 
carried on under the usual industrial conditions can 
suitably be followed by children under the age of 14 
years while still in attendance at school." 

The following Acts of Parliament are concerned 
with the industrial employment of children under the 
age of 1 6 years, viz. : — 

(i) The Employment of Children Act, 1903 ; 

(ii) The Labour Exchanges Act, 1909; and 

(iii) The Education (Choice of Employment) Act, 
1 9 10. 

The chief of these is the Employment of Children 
Acty 1903, under which byelaws may be made by 
local Authorities with a view to regulating the condi- 
tions, etc., under which children work. 

The safeguard for the employed school child of the 
widest application is afforded by the section of the 
Act which states that " A child shall not be employed 
in any occupation likely to be injurious to his life, 
limb, health, or education, regard being had to his 
physical condition." 

A further section enacts that " A child shall not be 
employed to lift, carry, or move anything so heavy as 



I 



f 



JUVENILE EMPLOYMENT 275 

be likely to cause injury to the child." Unfortunately, 
the arrangements for enforcing this enactment are in 
many instances defective : this may often proceed from 
the initial difficulty of defining the weight likely to 
cause injury to the child. This weight is usually 
estimated on the age-basis, i.e. it has hitherto been 
generally considered in this country that a child of a 
certain age can carry a certain weight without injury. 
In a discussion of the subject of the systematic carry- 
ing of heavy weights by children and young persons 
included in the Annual Report for 191 3 of the School 
Medical Officer for Birmingham, Dr. Auden pointed 
out that a light burden for a well-developed child may 
be grossly injurious to one of equal age but of poor 
physical development, and that a more satisfactory 
basis would be a standard proportion between the body- 
weight and the weight to be carried. A convenient 
proportion, he suggests, would be one-third of the body- 
weight for boys and one-fifth in the case of girls. 

A valuable practical application of the Act is 
afforded by the action of the Bradford Education 
Committee, who require to be satisfied as to the 
physical fitness of children applying for street-trading 
licences. A systematic medical examination of all 
such children is carried out; during 191 3, 9 children 
out of 1 5 I examined were rejected as unfit. Of these 
3 suffered from early pulmonary tuberculosis, 2 from 
heart disease, 3 from anaemia and malnutrition, and i 
from chronic bronchitis. 

The principle, however, might with advantage be 
extended to all employed school children ; this could 
only be effected by registering such children and 
arranging for their periodical examination by the 
School Medical Staff. A complete record would 
include details as to the general appearance, the height 



276 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

and weight, the haemoglobin content of the blood, and 
the results of a carefully devised series of tests relating 
to " fatigue." Of prime importance would be careful 
and full observation on the child's work at school by 
his teacher. To be of value such examinations would 
require to be conducted at short intervals — say every 
two or three months. 

A primary function of the School Medical Staff is 
the advising of the bodies concerned with the adminis- 
tration of the Labour Exchanges Act, 1909, and the 
Education (Choice of Employment) Act, 19 10, which 
deal with the selection of suitable employment for 
children leaving school. Although many factors 
determine the nature of the work undertaken by a 
child when leaving school, and many considerations 
other than the physical condition of the child must 
inevitably be taken into account, at the same time 
there is no doubt that many children on leaving school 
are employed in occupations unsuitable to their physical 
condition, with disastrous results both to the child and 
the community. 

The most satisfactory method of co-operation 
between the Medical and Juvenile Employment De- 
partments of an Education Committee is probably 
afforded when the School Medical Staff transmits 
directly, on the appropriate form, to the Juvenile 
Employment Officer, any suitable information relating 
to all children so physically defective as to require 
special consideration as to the nature of the occupation 
taken up. In most cases it will be possible to name 
definitely many alternative occupations suitable for the 
child.* 

* See chapter vi., on " The Choice of Employment for Defective 
Children," in Medical Notes for School Teachers^ by Dr. C. W. 
Hutt (Edward Arnold). 



JUVENILE EMPLOYMENT 277 

In the vast majority of instances the medical 
record of the " leavers " examination of the child 
would afford sufficient information to enable the doctor 
to write the report, but a small proportion of the 
children would require special re-examination for the 
purpose. 

Although the provision of a School Medical 
Service has in some measure filled the gap, arrange- 
ments for the medical supervision of the employ- 
ment after leaving school of children under 16 
years of age are still inadequate. The scope of 
the Factory Surgeon is limited to children under 16 
employed in factories and certain workshops, but 
many trades outside the sphere of the Factory and 
Workshops Act, 1901, are carried on under circum- 
stances urgently requiring the certification of the 
young workers. 

It would appear further that about one-half only 
of the children partially or totally exempted from 
school attendance are presented for certification under 
the Factory and Workshops Act ; presumably the same 
inadequate proportion of children between the ages 
of 14 and 16 come under the aegis of the Factory 
burgeon. A considerable field remains, therefore, 
which may most appropriately be covered by the 
School Medical Service. 

When the Certifying Factory Surgeon is a member 
of the School Medical Staff, co-ordination of the work 
of supervising employed children can easily be effected. 
This arrangement exists in 29 areas in England and 
Wales. 

In the United States of America it is the practice, 
speaking generally, of a Medical Officer in the employ- 
ment of the municipality, whether in the Health or 
Education Department, to issue certificates of fitness 



278 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

or otherwise for employment in the case of all children 
under 1 6 years of age ; in Toronto the Medical Staff 
of the schools act also as factory inspectors, and this 
intimate association between the factory and the school 
is found to be of great value. 



CHAPTER XV 

THE SCHOOL AND INFECTIOUS DISEASE 

General considerations — The "seed" and the "soil" — Measles 
—Onset— Course — Complications — Methods of spreading — Pre- 
vention. 

TO those in authority over schools, infectious 
disease is of the greatest moment, disturbing, 
as it so frequently does, the work of the school, but 
to the child it is of still more moment, for while an 
attack of any one of the more common infectious 
diseases may be frequently of a mild nature only, 
and leave no serious result behind, still in other 
instances an attack may prove fatal or leave the child 
seriously damaged. 

The age at which different infectious diseases occur 
and the death-rate at different ages varies greatly, 
and upon this hang many practical problems. With 
some of these we have already dealt in the chapter 
on the Infant School, when discussing the question 
of the age at which children should first go to school ; 
others will arise as we come to treat of each infectious 
disease separately. 

Infectious diseases have much in common ; they 
are all caused certainly or presumably by a micro- 
organism; they all have a period, known as the 

" incubation period," between the time when the germ 

279 



28o THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

first gains access to the body and the time when the 
first symptoms of the disease show themselves ; they 
have much in common in their signs, symptoms, and 
general course ; and they all to a greater or less 
degree render the patient immune to a second attack. 
But from the school point of view their resemblances 
are of less moment than their differences. The school 
has suffered much in the past through these diseases 
being too often grouped together, through want of 
accurate study. In the past also, too much has been 
taken for granted, and there has often been a lack of 
scientific method in dealing with infectious disease. 

The respective parts played in their spread, on 
the one hand, by the school, the places of mingling 
outside the school such as the home, street, Sunday 
school, picture-palace, and on the other hand by the 
child have been somewhat scantily considered, and 
the attitude upon this aspect of the subject, even 
upon the part of medical men, has not always been 
as discriminating as it should be. The study of 
bacteriology has, for instance, helped us much in the 
case of diphtheria, but there is still needed more 
accurate clinical observation, more study of the facts 
of incidence and more careful examination of statistics, 
and then a more appropriate application of adminis- 
trative measures, than has been the case in the past. 
A thorough system of medical supervision of school 
children will render this possible. 

The term "Infectious Disease" is a wide one: 
as to what diseases are exactly included, we need not 
concern ourselves ; we are only concerned with those 
having a direct bearing on the school. Of these again 
we shall only treat in this chapter such as are acute 
in their course. 

A preliminary word is also necessary in regard to 



SCHOOL AND INFECTIOUS DISEASE 281 

the term " Contagious Disease." It should be under- 
stood that no distinct division can be drawn between 
diseases which spread by " infection " and those which 
spread by " contagion," " contagion " being only a 
special form of "infection," i.e. infection by contact. 
^ If the terms " contagious " and " contagion " are used 
at all, they should be used simply as descriptive terms 
to indicate one method by which an infectious disease 
is spread. If the term " contagious disease " be used 
it should be confined to such diseases as spread by 
direct contact and are local only in their manifestation, 
e.g. ringworm, scabies (itch), etc. 

The "Seed" and the "Soil" 

Any detailed consideration of particular infectious 
diseases must be preceded by some discussion of two 
points from a more general standpoint — what is now 
so frequently alluded to as the " seed " and the " soil." 
Every form of infectious disease is due to a " germ." 
The germ, it is true, has in many cases not been 
isolated, but analogy leaves little doubt as to the fact 
of its presence. A germ is a living organism, which 
entering the body at some point— ^.^. at the tonsils 
in diphtheria, through the intestinal wall in typhoid 
fever — multiplies within the body either locally or 
generally, or both, and by such multiplication or by 
the production of toxins, gives rise to the symptoms 
characteristic of the disease. These germs belong to 
the vegetable kingdom; they are known as bacteria, 
and are forms of fungi. They are extremely minute, 
varying in size from one-third of a micromillimetre 
to about three micromillimetres — from, that is to say, 
about ^Vcr to about ^ of an inch. In form they 
are most commonly either spherical (cocci), or cylindrical 



282 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

and rod-shaped (bacilli). Various forms of blood- 
poisoning and suppuration are due to the former group, 
while bacilli of different forms are responsible for 
tuberculosis, diphtheria, typhoid fever, etc. 

But if the seed is important, no less is the soil. 
The susceptibility to the different infectious diseases 
varies greatly in different children, and this, too, in a 
way of which we are largely ignorant, i.e. we cannot 
say beforehand whether a child will take a given 
infectious disease or not. To some diseases certain 
children are quite immune, i.e. they are in the same 
position naturally as are those who have had the 
disease, and are so protected against a further attack. 
But the character of the soil shows itself not only 
in respect to its power to prevent the seed from 
developing, but also in the severity or otherwise of the 
disease to which the seed gives rise. It is not always 
easy to say how far the character of the attack is 
determined by the degree of virulence of the germ, 
and how far to the degree of resistance of the person 
attacked, but this latter undoubtedly exercises an 
important influence, though here again we are but 
little able to estimate such influence beforehand. And 
one must discriminate, too, between this inborn degree 
of capacity to resist, and the capacity acquired by the 
effect on the physical condition and general health of 
the upbringing and surroundings of the child ; the 
seriousness of measles, for example, is almost entirely 
connected with the complications which arise in its 
course, and these are for the most part connected with 
unsatisfactory hygienic conditions. 

The following are the infectious diseases which 
will be discussed : Measles, Scarlet Fever, Diphtheria, 
Whooping Cough, Mumps and Chicken-Pox, and 
some reference will be made also to Smallpox, 



SCHOOL AND INFECTIOUS DISEASE 283 

Influenza, Typhoid Fever, Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal 
Meningitis (Spotted Fever), and Anterior Polio- 
myelitis (Infantile Paralysis). 



Measles 

Measles is a disease to which even yet but com- 
paratively little importance is attached by the general 
public. It is responsible for about 1 1 ,000 deaths 
annually in England and Wales. Epidemics differ 
much in their severity ; the mortality varies from 2 to 
about 8 per cent, of those attacked, depending to a 
considerable extent on the number of children affected. 
Probably 90 per cent, of public Elementary School 
children have had measles by the time they leave the 
Infants' School. 

The importance of measles is not confined to the 
number of deaths it causes. The disease may give 
rise to physical defects which may seriously cripple the 
child, such as middle-ear disease (" running ear ") and 
inflammation of the cornea, or it may render a child's 
lungs liable to attack by tubercle bacilli. 

A lesser evil than the fatality of the disease and 
the serious physical defects sometimes resulting, yet 
one which obtrudes itself more on the notice of the 
educational administrator, is the havoc measles plays 
with school attendance. 

The germ causing the disease has not yet been 
discovered, but is doubtless present in the discharges 
from the eyes and nose and in the sputum. 

The infection does not cling for any length of time 
to articles of clothing, toys, etc., or persist out of the 
body so that any special disinfection of articles or 
rooms is unnecessary. 

The incubation period is commonly about eleven 



\ 



284 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

days ; it may be sometimes a day or two less and not 
infrequently rather longer, though very seldom exceed- 
ing fourteen days. The characteristic onset is well 
known : the running eyes and nose, slight hoarseness 
with increasing feverishness, and then, on the fourth 
day of the disease, the rash nearly always well marked 
and unmistakable. Measles can, however, be diagnosed 
twenty-four hours or thereabouts after the onset by the 
discovery of certain spots (Koplik's spots) inside the 
mouth. As the disease is especially infectious during 
its early stages the earlier isolation of the patient 
thus rendered possible is a distinct gain. Remaining 
at its height for a day or two, the disease normally 
abates gradually, and at the end of a fortnight, or it 
may be considerably sooner, the child is practically 
well. Peeling in the form of a powdery condition of 
the skin occurs, but as a rule is hardly noticeable. 

But the course may be less favourable, the disease 
assuming a virulent form almost from the onset. 
Measles may give rise to complications, especially 
bronchitis and pneumonia, diarrhoea and convulsions, 
and middle-ear disease leading to ear discharge ; 
inflammation of the conjunctiva, cornea, or eyelids are 
some of the less frequent complications. 

The inflammation of the cornea at times gives rise 
to large opacities, causing marked interference with 
vision ; that of the eyelids produces the unsightly 
appearance seen from time to time in children. 

Methods of Spreading 

To the question, How is measles spread ? we have, 
in spite of not knowing the micro-organism in question, 
a clear answer, viz. from child to child. From our 
present point of view, viz. the school point of view, 



SCHOOL AND INFECTIOUS DISEASE 285 

this really needs no qualification. A few individual 
cases suggest that the disease has been spread by, for 
instance, clothing, but all methods, other than direct 
infection from child to child, are administratively only 
of academic interest. 

Passing on to school closure^ in the past this 
measure has been resorted to in an arbitrary manner, 
depending upon the degree to which the average 
attendance has been reduced. Experience of measles 
epidemics shows, however, how extremely unsatisfactory 
such a procedure is from the point of view of checking 
an epidemic. The mischief has practically all been 
done after the appearance of the first batch due to the 
initial case, and it is quite clear, and Dr. Thomas' 
accurate work * finally establishes this, that for 
closure to be effective it must be adopted on the 
appearance of the first case. In the great majority of 
instances this first case escapes observation, but should 
the first case be detected and the school closed, it is 
quite clear that, considering how prevalent measles is, 
another first case would arise almost as soon as the 
school was opened, and again closure would be neces- 
sary. If such practice were rigidly carried out, an 
Infant School would, in a large town, rarely be open. 
Class closure is an attractive alternative to school 
closure, but the results as obtained by Dr. Thomas in 
his inquiry in Woolwich are extremely unsatisfactory. 

In the eastern portion of the borough class closure 
was vigorously enforced on every possible occasion, 
whilst individual exclusion was resorted to in the 
western portion. No difference resulted in the pre- 

* Report of the Education Committee of the London County 
Council submitting the Report of the Medical Officer (Education) 
for the year ended 31 March, 1908. Also Report for 191 1, pp. 125- 
134 (Messrs. P. S. King & Son Ltd.). 



286 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

valence of the disease, but class closure cost a loss of 
135 attendances per case notified, whilst individual 
exclusions cost 63 attendances, less than half. 

Class closure is certainly not worth while adopting 
in the case of children of 5 years old and upwards ; 
where there seems a likelihood of somewhat postponing 
the attack among the babies this class should for this 
reason be closed upon the discovery of the first case. 
From the point of view, then, of prevention of the 
disease, school closure within the limits practicable is 
of no service ; class closure in towns is almost equally 
unsatisfactory, though it may well play a useful part 
in a rural area. 

The relation between overcrowding and bad ventila- 
tion and their influence upon the course of measles is 
such as one would expect. Obviously these conditions 
allow of much more intimate contact, both direct and 
through the air breathed, of a child or children affected 
and those unaffected. Dr. Thomas gives a very con- 
vincing illustration of this. A number of schools were 
closed upon the earliest knowledge of a single case of 
measles having occurred. In six of the schools the 
percentage of unprotected children attacked was re- 
spectively 65, 50, 41, 13, 33, 33, while in the remain- 
ing two, which were temporary and also insanitary 
buildings, the percentage was as high as 81 and 90 
respectively. Similarly, noting the percentage of 
children left in the schools who have not had measles, 
this was in the case of the first six schools, 9, 15, 18, 
21, 18, 25, respectively, and in the case of the two 
temporary buildings, 6 and 4. 

Disinfection of the school building, as the term is 
usually understood, i.e. fumigating and the use of 
special chemical disinfectants, serves no useful purpose 
in the prevention of measles. In our Elementary 



SCHOOL AND INFECTIOUS DISEASE 287 

Schools there is no evidence that measles is spread by 
the school building, except in so far as the building 
permits of overcrowding and does not allow of plenty 
of fresh air. 

Coming now to the history of a measles epidemic 
in school, we are usually first made aware of it by the 
fact that a number of children, perhaps as many even 
as one-third or even one-half of an infants' class, are 
simultaneously attacked with the disease; perhaps a 
few other cases are discovered also in one or another of 
the other classes. In ten or twelve days' time a large 
number again succumb, and at another similar interval 
a further and usually final batch, the number being 
much smaller than the preceding ones, brings the 
epidemic to a close. Such is quite a common history 
of an outbreak of measles in an Infants' School. 
There is, however, much variety, depending clearly 
upon how many of the children are already protected 
by a previous attack, how far the initial patient came in 
contact with sundry members of classes other than his 
own, and so on — i,e. the course is either more or less 
rapid; in a school the children of which are already 
comparatively well protected by a previous attack, the 
disease may practically die out almost after the first 
crop. 

In the report to which reference has already been 
made it is shown in an interesting manner how measles 
always tends to spread when the number of unpro- 
tected children in a class reaches to between 30 and 
40 per cent., and having commenced to spread, it con- 
tinues to do so until there are only some 15 to 20 per 
cent, unprotected children left unaffected. The be- 
haviour of measles, however, will clearly not be the 
same in all districts^ in rural, for example, as in urban, 
though districts and towns comparable as regards 



288 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

density of population may be expected to show 
epidemics having similar features. In all towns 
measles spreads mainly among children of 5 years 
of age and downwards, due to the frequent facilities 
the children have of catching the disease. Where the 
facilities are less, e.g. in the suburbs of a town where 
there is less crowding and less facility for disease 
spreading, and where, too, parents are, generally speak- 
ing, in somewhat better social position and pay more 
intelligent care to the bringing up of their children, the 
disease is not acquired at so young an age, and cases 
may occur with considerable frequency among children 
of 6 years of age. 

Prevention 

The question of prevention of measles raises some 
interesting questions. We should expect at the outset 
that the task would be a difficult one, first on account 
of the extremely infectious character of the disease, 
and secondly on account of the initial symptoms 
resembling those of an ordinary cold in the head, and 
indeed being often mistaken for such, and to this we 
must add the fact that it is at this period that the 
disease is most infectious. Given, then, conditions 
such as compulsory school attendance affords, putting 
on one side the mingling of children in their homes 
and in the streets, given the fact that the initial stages 
are not only the most infectious but the least easy to 
diagnose, we shall not be surprised that for all practical 
purposes we cannot prevent the disease ; what we can 
do, however, is to alter its incidence in regard to age. 
Even this fails to bring one advantage for which we 
might have hoped. The susceptibility to the disease 
seems to lessen comparatively little as the child grows 



SCHOOL AND INFECTIOUS DISEASE 289 

older : as things are, however, to-day, a child as it 
grows older, who has escaped when an infant, gets less 
opportunity of developing the disease, since the occa- 
sions of contact with other cases become fewer. The 
apparently greater immunity is probably not real, 
though it is not possible at present to speak dogmati- 
cally upon that point. 

From another point of view, however, as we have 
already seen (p. 147), to raise the age at which a child 
can catch measles is an end to be aimed at, at least to 
a certain point, on account of the lesser death-rate at 
the higher ages. All possible steps should be taken 
to prevent an attack before the age of 5, and if it 
can be put off until the age, say, of 7, so much the 
better. 

Assuming, then, that an attempt must be made to 
control the disease within the limits suggested above, 
what preventive measures can be taken so far as the 
school is concerned ? There are three headings under 
which this may be done : — 

(i) The detection and exclusion of sufferers and 
susceptible children. 

(2) School or class closure. 

(3) Attention to the amount of floor space per 
child and ventilation. 

As regards detection and exclusion of individual 
sufferers, in so far as it is accurately carried out it 
must, it is clear, largely influence the course of an 
epidemic ; obviously the longer a child in the initial 
stages of measles remains in the school the greater will 
be the chances that such a child will spread the disease. 
If one were, then, to take an extreme case and suppose 
that a doctor paid a visit every day to an Infants' 
School and examined every child from the point of 
view of possible commencing measles, undoubtedly 
19 



290 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

much would be done to prevent a sudden outburst of 
measles ; the disease would spread more gradually. 
Such daily visiting is, however, impracticable : any 
advantage gained could be largely secured by an 
energetic and intelligent teacher trained in hygiene. 
For reasons we have explained, the advantage of 
detection and exclusion would be very real in the 
babies' class. 

In London, children of the age of 5 or under, 
if they have not already had measles, are excluded at 
the beginning of an outbreak in the school till the 
crop of children infected by the first case is exhausted. 

In older children the risk of spread is not so great, 
owing to the lower proportion of susceptibles. If 
the percentage is low, little risk is incurred by allow- 
ing the few unprotected children to continue attendance 
at school. 

On the other hand, if the percentage of susceptible 
children is high, and there are indications of wide 
spread of the disease, all unprotected children in the 
department may be excluded for varying periods even 
though certain of the classes may not already be in- 
fected. For these measures to be carried out, accurate 
knowledge as to whether the children have or have not 
suffered from measles is essential. 

Measles (and German measles) are now com- 
pulsorily notifiable by parents, guardians, or other 
persons in charge of the patient and by rhedical 
practitioners. At the same time, the duty is still 
placed on head teachers and school attendance 
officers of reporting any cases coming to their know- 
ledge to the School Medical Officer and the Medical 
Officer of Health. Teachers, parents, and school 
attendance officers should be given adequate informa- 
tion {e.g, in the form of advice cards) describing the 



SCHOOL AND INFECTIOUS DISEASE 291 

initial symptoms of the disease ; the cards may 
approximately describe the precautions to be taken to 
prevent spread. 

One question remains, viz. how long should children 
be kept away from school who are suffering from 
measles, and how far is it necessary to exclude also 
members of the same family and for what period of 
time ? In regard to children suffering from the disease, 
we are concerned only here with the question as to 
how soon a child can return to school without being a 
source of danger to other children. The risk of a child 
passing on the infection diminishes in uncomplicated 
cases rapidly from the first few days onward. The 
child may be allowed to return to school at the end 
of a fortnight after the date of the appearance of 
the rash, provided that convalescence is satisfactorily 
established, and that there are no complications nor 
sequelae of any kind, no mucous discharges, or running 
from the ear which might spread the infection.* 

The exclusion of " contact " children is a question 
which theoretically need give rise to little trouble, seeing 
that the spreading of measles by a child not itself 
suffering from the disease practically never occurs. 
Accordingly, one might argue that no child who has 
already had the disease need stay away from school. 
In an Infants' Department, however, it is advisable to 
exclude all children from an infected home. There is 
not infrequently uncertainty as to a previous attack, 
and there is, too, the possibility of a second attack, 
though this possibility is much less than is sometimes 
thought. Accurate investigation would probably reduce 
such cases to an extremely small percentage. How- 

* See a code of rules for the prevention of infectious diseases 
in schools issued [191 5] by The Medical Officers of Schools Associa- 
tion (J. & A. Churchill). 



292 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

ever, for the above two reasons and the, to some extent, 
practical difficulties in differentiating the children, it is 
best in an Infants' Department, where there is so much 
" combustible " material, to quote Dr. James Kerr, to 
exclude all children coming from the same home. The 
case in the Senior Department is quite different. In 
all towns children of the Senior Department, with the 
exception perhaps of those in Standard I. in the more 
outlying districts, may safely be permitted to attend 
school if they have themselves had measles. Even 
should a second attack develop it would be of little 
consequence, since there would be practically no sus- 
ceptible children among whom the disease might spread. 
It will be seen from this how many children there are 
who at the present time are absent unnecessarily from 
the Senior Department during epidemics of measles. 

Children who are not allowed to come to school 
from an infected home should remain at home until 
sixteen days have elapsed since the occurrence of the 
last case. 

The most careful arrangements with regard to 
measles and school children will break down if they 
only prevent intimate mixing and massing of children 
during epidemics from taking place at schools. In 
order to make preventive measures more effective the 
Sunday-school and its treats, and the picture palace, 
will require to be brought in some measure under the 
control of the bodies concerned with the health of 
school children. 

Some provision * should be made for visitation by 
nurses at the homes of children suffering from measles, 
so that they may supervise the hygiene of the sick-room 

* Local Sanitary Authorities can now provide nursing and 
medical assistance for children suffering from measles, and can 
obtain similar powers in the case of whooping cough. 



SCHOOL AND INFECTIOUS DISEASE 293 

and afford the skilled attention necessary for certain 
of the children ; any additional medical assistance 
required should also be provided. 

Although it is impossible to provide hospital treat- 
ment for more than a small proportion of the children 
suffering from measles, this partial measure would 
undoubtedly diminish the death-rate and prevent the 
serious complications. 

German Measles (Rubella, Rubeola, R5theln, 
Epidemic Roseola, Epidemic RosEtRash) 

Although this disease occurs more frequently after 
the age of 14 than before, it occurs at times in out- 
breaks in schools either alone or at the same time as 
measles. 

In German measles attention is drawn to the child 
on account of the presence of a rash on the face, fever- 
ishness, an uncomfortable feeHng in the throat, and 
headache, while in measles the signs of a severe cold 
obtrude themselves. 

German measles does not spread rapidly through- 
out the department, one child or a few children only in 
a class or standard being affected. 

In an Infants' Department the disease does not 
especially select the younger children as in the case of 
measles. 

Many of the children attacked may be reported by 
the teachers or parents to be suffering from " second 
attacks of measles." 

In the interference with school attendance and the 
liability of confusion of the disease with measles, and 
less often scarlet fever, lies its chief importance. The 
disease is very rarely fatal, and complications seldom 
occur. Sufferers should be excluded for not less than 



294 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

seven days from the date of the appearance of the rash, 
or until all symptoms are absent. All contacts ex- 
cluded from school should remain away for twenty 
days. 

The arrangements for the compulsory notifica- 
tion of German measles are identical with those for 
measles. 



CHAPTER XVI 

THE SCHOOL AND INFECTIOUS DISEASE 
(continued) 

Scarlet Fever — Onset and course — Methods of spreading — 
Effect of school attendance — Prevention. 

Scarlet Fever 

SCARLET fever presents problems very different 
from those of measles. It is most common at 
about the ages of 5 and 6, though there is a general 
tendency for the disease to be contracted later in the 
child's life than formerly. It is, however, during infancy 
that it is most fatal. The liability to catch scarlet fever 
seems definitely to decrease as the child grows older, and 
there is, too, marked idiosyncrasy in regard to suscepti- 
bility to the disease. This point, combined with the 
great variation in the virulence of the germ causing the 
disease, leads to a correspondingly wide variation in 
its incidence, in the course of outbreaks and in their 
severity. 

A good deal of controversy has centred around the 
micro-organism causing the disease, and the point 
cannot be considered settled even yet. The general 
consensus of opinion is, however, that it is due to a 
specific micrococcus, but exact proof is not at present 
available. The incubation period of scarlet fever is 

fortunately a very short one ; the disease in the large 

29s 



296 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

number of cases develops from the second to the fourth 
day after exposure to infection ; it may even do so in 
twenty-four hours. The incubation period probably 
never exceeds a week. 

The onset of the disease is sudden, and the child is 
obviously ill from the first ; one of the first symptoms 
usually is vomiting, and such an onset occurs from 
time to time in school. A typical case of the disease 
with all the symptoms developed in twenty-four hours 
is quite frequently seen; the high temperature and 
rapid pulse, the flushed face, with at the end of twenty- 
four hours the characteristic rash ; the furred and 
subsequently the " strawberry " tongue, and the sore 
throat, are all present. For a day or two the disease 
remains at its height, and then in an uncomplicated case 
all the symptoms gradually abate, and soon nothing is 
left to indicate the disease but the "peeling," which, 
commencing before the end of the first week, remains for 
four, five, or six weeks, and sometimes even drags on for 
two or even three months. In the clinical forms of the 
disease there is almost endless variety, but these must not 
detain us, except in so far as they bear on the school. 
Thus the disease may be malignant from the very onset, 
and even death occur in the first few days. Complica- 
tions often arise which may prolong the illness, but 
eventually leave no trace behind them. Others leave 
their mark for many months and perhaps throughout 
life. Inflammation of the kidney (nephritis or Bright's 
Disease), which not infrequently develops in the third 
and fourth weeks of the illness, fortunately usually 
passes off", but the children found in school suffering 
from this complaint commonly date the onset from an 
attack of scarlet fever. A condition closely resembling 
rheumatic fever may develop in the first week of the 
illness, and, as a consequence, scarlet fever may prove 



SCHOOL AND INFECTIOUS DISEASE 297 

the starting-point of heart disease. Inflammation of 
the bony wall of the middle ear is common, and to this 
condition is due a considerable proportion of the cases 
of "running ear" found in school life. Inflammation 
of the glands of the neck may occur, in some cases going 
on to the formation of an abscess. 

But in addition to the more typical form of scarlet 
fever, there are other forms of considerable importance 
from the school point of view. The disease may be 
extremely mild, and even altogether escape attention. 
The child may have had what was considered a " feverish 
attack " only, or may have seemed simply out of sorts 
for a day or two. Or indeed there may have been 
nothing whatever complained of except a sore throat. 

Methods of Spreading 

Coming now to the question of most importance 
from our point of view, how does the disease spread ? 
What part does the school play? We shall find no 
such easy answer to this question as in the case of 
measles ; we shall find we have even to distrust what 
appears at times apparent on the surface. We should 
naturally expect that the usual story would be that a 
case would develop in school, and then in a few days a 
further batch of cases would arise, and so on ; but such 
is not the case, or only rarely. Thus, in many large 
towns there are one or two children away with scarlet 
fever or on account of scarlet fever in the home from 
perhaps a third or more of the schools, and such a 
condition of affairs may remain true throughout the 
year. Suddenly there will arise in a school perhaps 
4 or 5 cases with no apparent connection with one 
another, the usual course being to find about the same 
day the first 4 or 5 cases scattered in at least three 



298 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

or four classes. Exactly the same thing may happen 
sometimes in a district among the non-school-going 
part of the population ; indeed, the sudden develop- 
ment of a few cases in a school may be found associ- 
ated with a similar development apart from the school. 
In some of these developments it is quite certain that 
there has been no immediate preceding case common to 
them at all ; there seems no escaping the conclusion 
that the germ lies dormant in the throat of a person, 
and that certain conditions arise, about which we at 
present know nothing, and favouring its activity cause 
the germ to give rise to an attack of scarlet fever in 
the person harbouring it. The condition of affairs is 
further complicated, since cases of sore throat are 
found synchronous with the developing epidemic, and 
there is ample proof that some of these are definitely 
scarlatinal and capable of producing the typical disease 
in others. 

There is a tendency for scarlet fever (and 
diphtheria) to persist among the scholars when once a 
school has been definitely involved ; this feature has 
been noticed both among schools with a large and 
schools with a small proportion of cases, and may con- 
tinue not only for months but for years. 

Until we find the organism responsible for 
scarlet fever it would appear difficult to solve these 
problems. 

A very little acquaintance, then, with the epidemi- 
ology of scarlet fever will show us that it is a complex 
problem, and will make us very careful how we jump 
to conclusions in regard to the responsibility of the 
school for epidemics. We may consider this responsi- 
bility from two points of view ; we may endeavour in 
the first place to ascertain to what degree the disease 
spreads during term-time as compared with holiday-time, 



SCHOOL AND INFECTIOUS DISEASE 299 

and during the days of the week the school is open as 
compared with those when it is shut, i.e. with Saturday 
and Sunday. And, secondly, we may consider what 
opportunities the disease has of actually spreading in 
school : this will help us, too, when coming to the 

Jan Pe8 Mar Apl MayJj/neJwly Ao6 SePr Ocr Nov Dec 
* to IS 10 2S 30 3S Uo 



1. 




iCARtADNA 



Fig. 12. — Ten years' weekly deaths, three weeks' averages, Scarlet Fever 
(also Measles and Diphtheria). 



question of prevention. That the school is definitely 
responsible for spreading scarlet fever seems at first 
sight, at any rate, clearly shown from the table 
reproduced below, which is a summary of the tables 
published by the Me^dical Officer of Health for the County 



300 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

of London, Sir Shirley Murphy, in his Annual Reports 
for the past five years (1903-7). 



Period. 


Notified Cases— Age 
Periods. 


Increase (+) and 
Decrease ( - ) per Cent. 


0-3- 


3-.3. 


13 and 
upwards. 


0-3- 


3-13- 


13 and 
upwards. 


Four weeks preceding 
weeks of holiday in- 
fluence 


889 


5612 


IO3I 








Four weeks of holiday 
influence . 


923 


4786 


972 


+ 3-8 


-14.7 


-5-7 


Four weeks following 
weeks of holiday in- 
fluence 


953 


6939 


1299 


+ 3-2 


+44-9 


+ 33-6 



It will be seen that in the case of children over 
3 years of age there is a marked fall in the number 
of notifications during the holiday period and a marked 
rise during the four weeks subsequent to the holiday. 
These figures, however, need correction in several 
directions, and probably express a greater difference 
than actually obtains. Thus, for example, Dr. Kerr 
has shown that there is a great exodus of children 
from London during the holiday season, decreasing 
the actual number of school children in London by 
about 20 per cent, during the holiday ; this alone is 
an important factor.* The weekly mortality curves 
for ten years, smoothed out into three-weekly averages 
by Dr. Laetitia Fairfield, show the absence of any 
marked holiday effect on the number of deaths from 
scarlet fever in London f (see Fig. 1 2). The in- 



* Report of the Medical Officer (Education), London County 
Council, 1905-6. 

t See School Hygiene^ vol. ii., October, 19 11, p. 549; also 
Dr. Kerr's contribution to a discussion (on the Control of Measles), 



SCHOOL AND INFECTIOUS DISEASE 301 

fluence of school has also been demonstrated by com- 
paring the number of notifications received upon 
different days of the week.* Thus the Medical Officer 
of Health for Sheffield, Dr. Scurfield, shows in the 
following table that the percentage of cases in which 
the rash appeared on Wednesday and Thursday is 
distinctly less than noted upon other days of the 
week, and the inference is that fewer children are 
infected upon Saturday and Sunday owing to the 
schools being closed upon these two days : — 



Day of Week. 




Total Cases, January 
to June, 1904 


Total Cases, July to 
December, 1904. 


Total Cases, January 
to June, 1905. 




Number. 


Per cent. 


Number. 


Per cent. 


Number. 


Per cent. 


Sunday . 
Monday . 
Tuesday . 
Wednesday 
Thursday 
Friday . 
Saturday . 




79 
82 

86 

74 
76 


14-4 

13-0 

13-4 
15-8 

14-4 


148 

179 
150 
140 

137 
167 
156 


13-8 
166 

13-9 
I3-0 

12-7 

15-5 

14-5 


"5 
III 

115 

l^ 

91 

lOI 


i6-6 
160 
166 
10.7 

12-5 

131 
14-5 



On the other hand, figures similarly analysed in 
the case of the city of Glasgow show no such variation, 
as is shown in the following table taken from the 
Report of the Physician Superintendent to the City of 
Glasgow Fever and Smallpox Hospitals, Dr. John 
Brownlee, for the year ending May, 1904: — 



vol. iv., August, 1913, p. 134. The same absence of marked holiday 
effect occurred in diphtheria, markedly in contrast to the effect 
of holidays on measles. 

* Dr. Arthur Whitelegge, when Medical Officer of Health for 
the City of Nottingham, was the first to draw attention to this 
point in a paper entitled " Age, Sex, and Season in Relation to 
Scarlet Fever," published in the Transactions of the Epidemio- 
logical Society of London for 1887-8. 



302 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 





1901-2. 


1902-3. 


1903-4. 


Total. 


Difference 
from Mean. 


Sunday .... 


38 


44 


42 


124 


- 5-6 


Monday . 




54 


54 


35 


143 


+ 134 


Tuesday . 




42 


37 


38 


117 


-12-6 


Wednesday 




40 


57 


37 


134 


+ 4-4 


Thursday . 




48 


47 


25 


120 


- 9-6 


Friday 




54 


50 


39 


143 


+ 13-4 


Saturday . 




38 


46 


42 


126 


- 3-6 


T 


'otal . 


314 


335 


258 


907 





In the same Report Dr. Brownlee points out that 
prior to 1874 there was practically no supervision over 
scarlet fever in Glasgow, while from that date onward 
stringent rules as regards attendance at school were 
in force, and yet " a measure which practically re- 
volutionized the whole administration of scarlet fever 
in its relations to schools produced not a particle of 
effect on the age-incidence of the disease." The same 
writer, in his Report for 1902, points out also that 
the age-incidence at different seasons of the year 
practically does not vary. Were scarlet fever spread 
materially by school attendance there should be a 
marked proportional increase after the summer holiday, 
at the age of 6, the time and age at which a very 
large proportion of the Glasgow children attend school 
for the first time. 

We have already seen how extremely difficult it is 
to see how, in many instances, the school has been 
responsible directly for the spread of scarlet fever, but 
there are concrete cases without doubt where one can 
show that the school has so acted as a centre of 
infection. 

In the first place, a child may sicken with the 
disease in school, and indeed the initial vomiting may 
occur in school. Such a child may obviously be a 



SCHOOL AND INFECTIOUS DISEASE 303 

centre of infection for its class-mates. As a matter of 
fact, it is only one or two children at the most whom 
one finds affected in this way ; immediate contact is 
requisite and the time during which such a child 
remains in school is of course very short, since the 
child is obviously ill, and is at once sent home. It is 
clear, then, that the method by which measles is most 
commonly spread is that least likely to occur in the 
case of scarlet fever. Secondly, children may return 
to school too soon after the disease ; they may perhaps 
have been kept at home during the earlier stage and 
have returned to school before thoroughly convalescent. 
Examples of such children, peeling perhaps almost 
from head to foot, are occasionally found sitting in 
school, and yet, as a matter of fact, no further cases 
develop in consequence. This, as well as other 
evidence, tends to support the contention so rapidly 
gaining ground that the desquamation of the skin 
does not carry infection with it. But children who are 
convalescing from scarlet fever appear none the less 
able to disseminate the disease even though they 
should not be peeling at all ; such are children with 
discharges of any sort, ear discharge, glands perhaps 
still suppurating — children whose throats are not yet 
perfectly well. All such appear able to act as foci of 
infection. Children who have had the disease very 
mildly and have even perhaps never been absent from 
school on account of it, one would naturally expect to 
act as centres of infection. Finally, it is possible that 
during times of epidemic the disease germs may be 
carried by healthy children (" carriers "). 

Apart, however, from the child itself we have the 
influence of its clothing, of its books and slate, etc., and 
the influence also of the school premises to consider. 
That scarlet fever can be spread by a third person 



304 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

acting as an intermediary there can be little doubt, 
but such a method, under existing arrangements for 
dealing with known cases, is practically never found in 
operation in school. As to the school premises, their 
influence at the earlier stages of an epidemic is prob- 
ably nil, and their influence at any time is doubtful, 
except in so far, of course, as there is overcrowding or 
bad ventilation. 

Prevention 

From all that has been said it is evident that we 
have much to learn in regard to the spread of scarlet 
fever before our knowledge can be considered accurate. 
The most striking fact is that the disease tends not to 
spread, and certain it is that in so far as the school 
plays a part in its dissemination that influence would 
seem to be at almost every point capable of control. 
What steps must be taken to eflect this we must now 
consider. 

Should the disease actually commence during 
school, obviously the first thing to do is to send the 
child home at once. Should there have been vomiting 
the vomited matter should be at once removed, the 
floor washed with soap and water, and then some strong 
disinfectant allowed to remain on the spot : this, of 
course, assumes that the vomit is infective, which it is 
necessary to assume until the contrary be proved. A 
very careful watch over the class for the next week 
will be necessary. Next, in view of the fact that 
children not thoroughly convalescent may act as 
centres of infection, we must keep the strictest eye on 
these. No child should ever be allowed to return to 
school after scarlet fever without a medical certificate 
based upon the examination of the child, definitely 
stating that the child is free from discharge of any 



SCHOOL AND INFECTIOUS DISEASE 305 

kind, and that it has been at least four weeks out of 
the fever hospital. In times of epidemic or of threat- 
ened epidemic, daily visits if necessary must be paid 
to the school ; all children complaining of sore throat, 
or coming from homes where there are cases of sore 
throat, must be carefully examined and questioned, 
and if necessary excluded : the possibility of very mild 
cases attending school must be kept in view. So far 
as the school premises are concerned, the first requisite 
is ample floor space and efficient ventilation. 

Provided, then, that the control of scarlet fever, so 
far as the school is concerned, can be carried out as 
above described, there is practically no possibility of 
the disease spreading in the school. Nevertheless, 
there are epidemics at times which are very severe, 
though seldom so severe as the decline in school 
attendance would seem to indicate. Many of the 
absentees are due to the fact that other members of 
the family are affected, and children are often, in 
outlying districts more especially, kept at home through 
fear of infection. It is possible in such cases for the 
attendance to fall so low as to necessitate school 
closure, though from the point of view of control of the 
disease this is a procedure which ought rarely to be 
necessary. At times the disease seems to take a 
curious course in a school, odd cases keep cropping up 
at intervals of a week or of two weeks perhaps, and it 
may be impossible to detect the cause. Such cases 
may with advantage be attacked from all sides, e.g, 
there should be careful individual inspection as 
mentioned above, special attention should be paid to 
the thorough cleansing with soap and water of every 
part of the room and of everything capable of being 
washed. All hangings should be removed and disin- 
fected. Chemical disinfection, as distinct from the 
20 



306 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

free use of soap and water, may be used in the manner 
detailed later, provided it is the last and not the first 
preventive measure resorted to. 

In reference to the length of time children must be 
absent on account of scarlet fever, there must in the 
first place always be a minimum absence of four weeks. 
Apart from this, however, a child who has been in the 
fever hospital must have returned home for at least four 
weeks prior to returning to school, and, of course, the 
child must be certified as free from -discharge of any 
kind which might possibly act as a sort of infection, as 
already detailed. Children from a home where there 
is scarlet fever must not return to school until fourteen 
days have elapsed since the last opportunity of catch- 
ing the disease. 



CHAPTER XVII 

THE SCHOOL AND INFECTIOUS DISEASE 

(concluded) 

Diphtheria — Onset and course — Methods of spreading — Preven- 
tion — Whooping cough — Mumps — Chicken-pox — Other infectious 
diseases — Disinfection. 

DIPHTHERIA is perhaps of all the infectious 
diseases the most dreaded, and in the case of 
very young children there is every reason why it should 
be. It is, moreover, a disease which shows no signs of 
decreasing ; indeed, all large towns show that during 
the past twenty years it has greatly increased. It has 
been looked upon as a disease closely connected with 
imperfect sanitation in regard to such matters as 
drains, cesspools, privies, etc., and yet it is clear that the 
great strides in general sanitation of the past half- 
century have in no wise lessened its development. 
This assumption that diphtheria was caused by and 
spread through defective sanitation has had and still 
exercises a mischievous effect. The discovery of the 
Klebs-Loeffler bacillus and the closer study which has 
been given to the disease has revealed the fact that it 
is essentially a personal disease, spreading by direct 
contagion from child to child, and has shown that the 
influence of defective sanitation acts indirectly only, 
when it acts at all, i,e. acts only by adversely influenc- 
ing the general health, and especially by producing a 



3o8 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

susceptible condition of the throat, causing this to 
become a more favourable soil on which the bacillus 
may flourish. The majority of cases of diphtheria, and 
diphtheria epidemics in general, have little or nothing 
to do with " bad drains or smells." 

Diphtheria is one of the infectious diseases for 
which a definite germ has been isolated. Any signs 
of inflammation of the throat associated with the 
diphtheria bacillus is diphtheria ; any condition when 
this bacillus is not present is not diphtheria. The 
frequency with which the diphtheria bacillus is found 
on the lining of the inside of the nose in cases of 
diphtheria when the throat is affected must not be 
overlooked ; at times the germ is not recovered from 
the throat while it is found in the nose ; definite signs 
of inflammation are usually lacking in this situation. 

The incubation period is short, varying from twenty- 
four hours to about five days ; it is usually about two 
or three days. In typical cases the onset is sudden, 
though not so sudden as that of scarlet fever; the 
initial symptoms are those of an ordinary feverish 
illness ; the glands of the neck are almost always 
enlarged. In an attack of moderate severity the 
patient does not feel very ill. In more severe attacks 
danger may arise through the spread of the inflamma- 
tion to the larynx threatening death from suffocation 
or through great increase in the severity of the 
symptoms caused by the virulence of the poison pro- 
duced at the seat of inflammation. 

Serious complications are apt to arise, the more 
important being due to paralysis caused by the action 
of the poison on the nerves. The soft palate is the 
part most often affected ; a nasal intonation of the 
speech is observed, and in addition at times fluids return 
through the nose when the patient drinks. Other 



SCHOOL AND INFECTIOUS DISEASE 309 

parts affected are the ciliary muscles of the eye, when 
difficulty in reading occurs ; one or more of the 
external eye muscles, producing a squint ; the legs, 
causing unsteady gait ; the diaphragm, causing great 
danger to life by " waterlogging " the lungs ; the 
nervous mechanism of the heart, leading to sudden 
heart failure and immediate death ; or vomiting and 
heart weakness, placing the patient's life in continual 
jeopardy. All these complications, moreover, may 
come on after an apparently very slight attack of the 
disease and after the lapse of some weeks. At the 
same time, however, that we recognize the formidable 
character of this disease, we must not forget that it 
may be represented merely by a slight sore throat 
which, when unrecognized, may prove as great a source 
of danger as the more virulent type of the disease. 

Diphtheria may take other forms. Impetiginous 
sores on the upper lip starting from the nostril are at 
times due to the diphtheria bacillus ; in such a case 
the organism can be found on bacteriological examina- 
tion of swabs taken from the sore and the affected 
nostril. From time to time children are found with 
one or both nostrils blocked up with coagulated 
blood : a certain number of these children are found 
on bacteriological examination to harbour diphtheria 
bacillus in their noses, and are in reality suffering 
from an attack of the disease. 



Methods of Spreading 

How, now, is the disease spread in school ? From 
what has been said already, we know that the answer 
is practically summed up by saying, " From child to 
child by direct infection." This, however, needs to 
be examined a little more closely. Infection may be 



3IO THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

spread (i) by a child suddenly developing diphtheria 
and being in school at the time of the onset — this, of 
course, is not particularly common, the chances being 
that the child will be somewhat out of sorts and will 
in consequence have remained at home ; (2) by a 
child remaining in school with a sore throat or sore 
nose, of which no especial notice has been taken, but 
which is nevertheless diphtheritic ; (3) by a child 
acting as a " carrier " of diphtheria bacilli in its nose 
or throat but not itself showing nor having recently 
shown any evidence whatever of the disease. It is 
by these last two methods that diphtheria is mainly 
disseminated, the nasal cases being more likely to 
cause the spread than the throat cases ; children 
belonging to one or other of these categories or to 
both will always be found wherever diphtheria shows 
itself in epidemic form. An] epidemic will be stopped 
just as soon as these two types of children are identified 
and excluded. What part, then, is played by more 
external conditions, by clothing, school apparatus, the 
school building, etc.? Comparatively speaking, very 
little indeed. Certainly slates and slate pencils are 
quite a possible source in so far that children suck 
their pencils and spit on their slates, and then use 
both pencils and slates indiscriminately. The influence 
of the school building is the same as we have had 
occasion to note under the diseases already discussed ; 
diphtheria, when once the disease has taken an 
epidemic form, will be spread more easily when there 
is overcrowding and bad ventilation, simply because 
these conditions favour the spread of the disease from 
child to child. 

The course of the disease in a school is usually a 
gradual one. A sudden outbreak in a class may occur, 
but usually cases are noticed to crop up at intervals 



SCHOOL AND INFECTIOUS DISEASE 311 

of several days perhaps, and then the epidemic may 
somewhat more quickly develop to serious proportions. 
The condition of affairs, however, is seldom so serious 
as one might suppose from the attendance register, 
since, as in the case of scarlet fever, many children 
are away on account of illness in the home, and others 
are kept at home through fear of infection. 

An interesting fact is the close association of the two 
diseases, scarlet fever and diphtheria. When the inci- 
dence of scarlet fever in a school is heavy the incidence 
of diphtheria is often well marked also ; this occurs in 
spite of the rigid exclusion of all children harbouring 
diphtheria bacilli. 

Prevention 

The lines upon which prevention must be based 
will be clear from what has been said. The old idea, 
not by any means altogether a thing of the past even 
yet, of at once taking up the drains, " disinfecting " the 
school, or even closing it, should no longer prevail ; 
prevention should be based upon the fact that the 
disease spreads, as we have seen, by direct infection 
from child to child. Immediately upon the notification 
of a case of diphtheria in a child attending school 
the school should be visited and all necessary inquiries 
made as to the circumstances, and endeavours should 
be made to discover, if possible, the origin of the case, 
whether in the school, the home, or elsewhere. Often, 
fortunately, no further cases will develop ; should they 
do so, definite steps must be taken to search for any 
possible case in the class or even in the school. 

Examination of the throat and noses of all the 
children in the class should be made ; swabs should 
be taken for bacteriological examination of the throats 
and noses of any child with redness of the throat, 



312 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

complaint of sore throat, sores in the nostril or on 
the upper lip, or with the nostril blocked with coagu- 
lated blood. Any children coming from homes where 
there are alleged to be cases of sore throat should also 
be swabbed. The children swabbed should be sent 
home until the result of the bacteriological examination 
is ascertained. 

Steps of this kind will frequently prove efficacious ; 
should further cases develop it may be necessary to 
" swab " the throats of all the children of a class or 
even of the whole school. 

The discovery of diphtheria " carriers " brings about 
a difficult situation ; where the child presents no evi- 
dence of ill-health he cannot be certified as suffering 
from diphtheria. Not even a person harbouring bacilli 
indistinguishable microscopically from true diphtheria 
bacilli can be definitely labelled as liable to spread 
diphtheria to others until the capacity of the germ to 
produce disease has been tested at a laboratoiy such 
as the Lister Institute. It is, however, generally con- 
sidered at present that all such persons should be kept 
away as much as possible from other susceptible 
persons ; children are almost invariably excluded from 
school, but no systematic manner of dealing with 
them when away from school has yet been generally 
adopted. 

The matter is further complicated by the existence 
of chronic intermittent " carriers " of diphtheria germs 
— persons who, when swabs from their throats, etc., 
are examined, are found on one occasion to harbour 
diphtheria bacilli while at another time the bacilli are 
absent, and yet on a third occasion diphtheria bacilli 
are found again.* 

* See Annual Reports of the London County Medical Officer, 
for 1912, p. 146; for 1913, p. 98. 



SCHOOL AND INFECTIOUS DISEASE 313 

The strictest watch must be kept upon all children 
who return to school after having had diphtheria or 
who come from homes where the disease has occurred. 
No such child should on any account be allowed to 
return to school until the throat and nose have been 
declared bacteriologically free. In regard, indeed, to 
sore throats and noses generally among children, no 
such child should be allowed to remain in school in 
a district where there are any, even isolated, cases 
of diphtheria unless bacteriological examinations show 
the absence of diphtheria; and further, no child who 
has had any kind of sore throat or nose should be 
allowed to return unless such an examination has been 
made. This may seem an exacting and perhaps 
unnecessary measure to some, but with the facts in 
regard to diphtheria being as they are, no measures 
short of complete ones seem permissible. 

So far as the school building is concerned we must, 
from what has been said, recognize the paramount 
importance of ample floor space and of fresh air ; " dis- 
infection," as usually understood, plays a very sub- 
sidiary part in prevention, and, as in the case of scarlet 
fever, it must be the last and not the first thing 
thought of. School closure should be seldom necessary 
in the case of diphtheria ; with an efficient medical 
staff given a free hand, the disease should be controlled. 
A scare may develop in an outlying district, and this 
may so reduce the attendance as to necessitate the 
closure of the school, but in such a case the closure 
will be on grounds of expediency, not because it is 
necessary on account of the disease. 

In regard to re-admission to school, children who 
have had the disease should not return until four weeks 
after their throats have been found, on bacteriological 
examination, to be free from diphtheria bacilli; they 



314 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

might, it is true, return sooner from the point of view 
of not being carriers of infection, but a long convales- 
cence is necessary in the case of so serious a disease. 
Children who have been in contact must not return 
for a fortnight or even longer, unless their throats have 
yielded a negative result on bacteriological examination. 

Whooping Cough 

Whooping cough is an extremely infectious disease 
among young children, and where unhygienic condi- 
tions prevail, it is, too, a dangerous disease. It is not 
in itself a dangerous disease however, but, like measles, 
it has as a frequent complication bronchitis and 
broncho-pneumonia, and it is this condition which 
carries off so many little children. In 19 12, 8407 
deaths from whooping cough occurred in England and 
Wales ; in 19 13, 5327, Le. 14 per 100,000 of the popu- 
lation. 

So far as the school is concerned it gives rise to 
trouble in the Infant School only, and principally in 
the babies' class or among the five-year-old children. 
An organism discovered by Drs. Bordet and Gengou 
is strongly suspected of being the cause of the disease. 
In the typical form of the disease during the first seven 
or ten days of the illness, it is usually thought that the 
child has an ordinary " cough " or " cold," or is suffering 
from an attack of slight bronchitis, but in some attacks 
the whoop may be in evidence from the first. The 
course of the disease is extremely varied, and may 
extend over a period of many months. In a typical 
complicated case the feverishness, the feeling of being 
out of sorts, and the bronchitis pass off after the first 
ten days, but the fits of convulsive coughing persist, 
and continue to do so usually for some five or six 



SCHOOL AND INFECTIOUS DISEASE 315 

weeks, gradually subsiding. The disease frequently 
causes marked deformity of the chest wall and may 
be the starting-point of chronic bronchitis, and even 
of pulmonary tuberculosis. 

In school whooping cough is spread directly from 
child to child ; the vomited matter, should the child 
vomit in school, is also infectious ; there is no evidence 
that the disease is spread by a third person, and dis- 
semination by the clothing may be disregarded. The 
school premises exercise a similar influence to that 
described under the first three infectious diseases dealt 
with. Overcrowding and inadequate ventilation favour 
the spread of the disease from one child to another ; 
apart from this the school premises exert no appre- 
ciable influence. Though the disease is so very 
infectious the results upon the attendance are not 
so marked as in the case of measles, since a larger 
proportion of children appear to have had the disease 
before the age of 5. The prevention of whooping 
cough, so far as the school is concerned, is about as 
unsatisfactory as is the prevention of measles ; imme- 
diate detection by teachers trained in school hygiene of 
cases so soon as developed, and exclusion of the same, 
together with airy classrooms with plenty of floor space, 
sum up the means of prevention. It is not worth 
while resorting to school closure as a means of pre- 
venting the disease spreading, though this measure 
may be adopted on administrative grounds. 

During the prevalence of the disease all children 
suffering from bad coughs, whether they whoop or 
not, should be temporarily excluded from school as a 
precautionary measure ; in addition, all children under 
5 years of age should be excluded from a school when 
an outbreak is occurring, although in the poorer 
quarters of urban areas the opportunities for infection in 



3i6 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

the street, tenement dwellings, etc., are so abundant as 
to render this precaution of little avail. 

Compulsory notification of whooping cough by- 
doctors and parents is in force at Hornsey, Greenwich, 
and Lambeth. Hospital provision is made for whoop- 
ing cough in New York. 

Children with whooping cough should not return 
to school at the earliest for a month, but preferably 
six or even eight weeks after the onset. No child 
should attend an Infants' School from an infected home, 
but there is no need for children to stop away from 
the Upper Department, provided they have already 
had the disease. A child who has been in contact 
with a case of whooping cough should not return to 
an Infants' School until three weeks have elapsed 
since the date of contact. If the children remain in 
the same house as the patient they should not return 
to the Infants* School until after the lapse of six weeks 
from the date of onset of the last case. 



Mumps 

Mumps is usually a trivial disease : it may, in 
the Infants' Department, and occasionally in Standard 
I. of the Upper School, lead to a considerable diminu- 
tion in the average attendance, but as a matter of 
fact some children have the disease so very slightly 
that they are kept at home for a day or two, no 
doctor is called in, and the children then return to 
school. No micro-organism has yet been isolated. 
The incubation period is a long one, three weeks. 
The onset is usually marked by the fact that the 
child ails, and then immediately almost there is the 
characteristic pain and swelling, first usually of one 
side of the face and adjacent part of the neck, and 



» 



SCHOOL AND INFECTIOUS DISEASE 317 

then of the other. This, after a few days, gradually 
subsides and leaves no ill effects behind it. The 
disease is spread in school direct from child to child, 
and the results in regard to the influence of the 
school building when discussing measles and whooping 
cough apply here also. 

Prevention follows the lines simply of detection 
and exclusion. Children who have had mumps 
should not return to school under three weeks. Other 
children in the house where a case has developed 
may attend school. 

Chicken-Pox 

Chicken-pox is another trivial disease which may 
cause trouble through absence of scholars in the 
Infant School. Although highly infectious, the only 
serious side to the disease is the possibility of mistaking 
smallpox, and especially smallpox modified by vaccina- 
tion or any other cause, for chicken-pox. 

The first sign of the disease is often the presence 
of the rash ; the child is, however, infectious for a day 
or two before the appearance of the rash. 

The rash consists of red spots which continue to 
come out for several days ; on these soon develops 
a minute bladder which on drying up forms a scab. 

In rare instances the patients may be delirious, but 
as a rule the children are merely peevish or irritable, 
off their food, and restless at night while the rash is 
coming out. In about a fortnight the scabs are shed 
and the disease is at an end. 

Occasionally, where the surrounding conditions are 
very unhygienic, individual spots become much in- 
flamed and healing is delayed. The disease is spread 
in school by direct contact from child to child ; attend- 
ance of a child in an infectious condition results in a 



3i8 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

large number of children acquiring the disease about 
fourteen days afterwards. 



Influenza 

Influenza is not looked upon seriously so far as 
schools are concerned, and no attempt is made to 
exclude children from homes where the disease is 
present. Generally speaking, the disease is not a very 
serious one among children, and in a household the 
disease nearly always works downwards, the older 
members of the household being affected first. 
Probably for this reason children actually suffering 
from influenza seldom sicken in school, but influenza 
being in the home the child immediately on sickening 
is kept from school. The infectious period lasts in 
an uncomplicated case but a very short time after 
the feverish stage. The disease is spread by direct 
contact only, and of all diseases can be prevented from 
spreading in an exceptional degree by flooding the 
room with fresh air. The germ needs the company 
of many of its fellows to spread the disease, and plenty 
of air space and a constant change of the air prevents 
this condition being fulfilled. 

Typhoid or enteric fever is only very rarely of 
interest from the school point of view. An epidemic 
in school is hardly possible, except in the case perhaps 
of a country school deriving its water supply from an 
infected source. 



Cerebro-Spinal Fever (Epidemic Cerebro- 
spinal Meningitis, Spotted Fever) 

Cerebro-spinal fever is almost always present in 
the United Kingdom ; from time to time outbreaks 



SCHOOL AND INFECTIOUS DISEASE 319 

have occurred, notably at Belfast in 1906 and 1907 
and Glasgow in 1906, children and young adults 
being chiefly affected. 

The death-rate during epidemics is very high, about 
70 per cent, but this may be due in part to mild 
unrecognized cases of the disease not being notified. 

In the Belfast epidemic, of 263 persons attacked 
194 (77*3 per cent.) died. At first, the children of 
the labouring classes were especially attacked, but 
later the disease spread to the artisan population 
and in some instances to persons of the well-to-do 
■k classes. 

Hk The most important method of spread is very 
^Bfprobably by " carriers," the germ responsible (meningo- 
Hf coccus) being found in the part of the throat at the 
back of the nose (naso-pharynx) of many children 
and adults who present no signs of the disease. 
Another source of danger is breathing over and over 
again the air vitiated by persons suffering from the 
disease and " carriers " ; thus overcrowding of houses, 
etc., plays a considerable part in the spread. Kissing 
has been suggested to be an important means of 
passing the germ from " carriers " to patients. 

As regards spread by school attendance during 
the Glasgow epidemic, in 38 schools single cases 
occurred, in 17 schools two cases, in 6 schools three, 
and in 4 schools four. In 5 instances two children in 
the same class were attacked. Seeing the important 
part played by " carriers " in the spread of the disease, 
it is probable that school attendance is responsible in 
some measure for its transmission. 

In typical cases the onset of the disease is sudden, 
with shivering, vomiting, persistent headache, and pain 
or stiffness in the neck and pain at the bottom of the 
back. Mild cases occur in which the only obvious 



320 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

sign of illness is a headache ; bacteriological examina- 
tion of the fluid contained in the spinal column clears 
up any doubt as to the nature of the illness. 

Recovery is not always complete ; paralysis of 
one side of the body (hemiplegia), deafness alone or 
combined with dumbness, partial blindness, or mental 
deficiency may result. 

Bacteriological examination of the naso-pharynx 
of contacts is very desirable ; all children with the 
germ should be kept away from school until it can 
no longer be found. Otherwise exclusion of contacts 
for three weeks is required. 

The treatment affording most prospect of cure is 
the injection of an anti-serum, such as that of Flexner 
and Jobling, into the spinal column. 

Infantile Paralysis (Anterior Polio-Myelitis, 
Acute Polio-Myelitis, Acute Polio-Ence- 
phalitis) 

Infantile paralysis is an infectious illness occurring 
principally among children ; of those attacked in 
England and Wales in 19 13, 67* i per cent, were 
under 5 years of age; 20*8 per cent, were over 5 and 
under 10; 6'i per cent, were over i o and under i 5 . 

The illness commences with feverishness, and is 
often mistaken for a cold ; the child is fretful and does 
not like being moved ; soon it is found that the child 
cannot move one or more of his limbs, or, if the 
muscles of the back are affected, that he cannot sit 
up. As a rule, after a time the use of some of these 
muscles returns. The disease proves fatal in about 
II or 12 per cent, of cases ; of those who survive 
at least one-half suffer from permanent paralysis of 
one or more groups of muscles. 



SCHOOL AND INFECTIOUS DISEASE 321 

The disease is probably contracted from another 
child or a " carrier." Children living in the same 
house as the patient should not be allowed to attend 
school until all risk of danger is passed. If paralysis 
remains after the attack, it will probably be found 
advisable to arrange for visitation at the home to 
ensure parents securing for the child suitable medical 
treatment such as electrical treatment and massage. 
Unfortunately in too many instances such treatment 
is neither obtained early enough nor persevered with 
long enough. 

Smallpox 

Smallpox is occasionally contracted in Public 
Elementary Schools ; introduction of the disease into 
a school may give rise to very serious consequences. 
Thus in 1895-96 the disease had been kept more 
or less under control for six months in Gloucester 
(population, 40,000 approximately), when within a 
few days 40 infants in one school and 26 in another 
became infected and caused a furious outbreak ; of 
about 2000 persons attacked over a fifth died. On 
the other hand, in Leicester (population, 200,000 
approximately) a comparatively small part in the 
dissemination of the disease was played by school 
children ; of 94 children attacked, only 26 were 
considered to be infected at school. 

There is no disputing the fact that a school 
composed of children all well vaccinated runs no risk 
of smallpox. 

Unfortunately, the number of vaccinated children 
is rapidly decreasing; thus the percentage of children 
vaccinated shortly after birth in Brighton has fallen 
steadily from 71 per cent, in 1905 to 32 per cent, in 
191 2. 

21 



322 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

A general survey of all the infectious diseases with 
which the school is concerned shows us of what para- 
mount importance is attention to the individual child. 
The prevention of infectious disease in our schools is 
based upon the recognition of this fact ; the school 
building upon which in the past so much attention 
was concentrated is of quite minor importance, except 
in so far as it permits of overcrowding or inadequate 
ventilation. As we have indicated, too, a necessary 
corollary of the importance attached to the individual 
child is the need for the teacher to be well trained in 
hygiene as it affects the school. A medical man 
cannot be always upon the doorstep : it would not be 
advisable if he could, and, moreover, a great part of 
that which needs doing in the first place, as regards the 
spread of infectious disease, can be done by the 
teacher; but this implies, of course, the necessary 
training. The qualifications for being capable of 
doing what is required are not great. The facts which 
have to be known are the least part of what is 
required ; an appreciation of the all-importance of 
hygienic surroundings in school, a love of personal 
hygiene and common sense in matters of health, a 
well-developed sanitary conscience, as it has been well 
called, are essential ; these will, however, only be 
possessed in so far as the teacher is trained in such 
ideas from the Elementary School, through the 
Secondary School and Training College, until all such 
hygienic questions become, not isolated facts to be 
thought about, but an inherent part of the teacher's 
nature. Let the teacher but enter into the spirit of 
preventive medicine, and then the actual knowledge of 
diseases he or she will require to make them efficient 
in the prevention of disease in the school will be 
comparatively trifling and easily acquired. 



t 



SCHOOL AND INFECTIOUS DISEASE 323 

Disinfection 

The term " disinfection " is frequently used in a 
very loose sense, and much superstition has grown up 
in connection with the practice. Disinfection, as 
practised in the past, and even to-day, may be 
productive of actual harm. When objectionable smells 
are noticed, disinfectants either real or so-called are 
used, and the stronger-smelling the alleged disinfectant 
the more is it preferred for the purposes, i.e. the 
disinfectant is used as a deodorant, though there is 
also a curious superstitious idea that the evil is at the 
same time being met. Unpleasant smells should be 
traced to their cause and removed, when deodorants 
will be no longer required. In all such places as 
closets and urinals proper construction and complete 
ventilation will remove the need for deodorants. 
Disinfectants have no place, and money is but wasted 
upon them, unless they are scientifically used with the 
definite end in view of killing disease germs. Experi- 
ments have clearly shown that many methods in the 
past, e.g. the burning of sulphur candles under the 
conditions which ordinarily obtain, are quite valueless, 
as is also such a process as " sprinkling " a room or a 
school with " carbolic." We must, in fact, know the 
power of the agents we are using and the conditions 
under which they are likely to be useful. 

In discussing all questions of disinfection of schools, 
it cannot be too often reiterated that simplicity and 
straightforwardness in design and construction, the 
taking of measures to prevent the accumulation of dust 
and dirt, the conscientious use of soap and water and 
damp dusting, the taking of full advantage of the 
beneficent power of sunshine and fresh air, are all 
measures of incomparably greater importance than the 



324 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

use of any so-called chemical germicides. Attention 
to hygiene and cleanliness of the school building in its 
fullest sense is all that, as a matter of daily routine, 
is required. Any routine chemical " disinfection " is 
unnecessary ; it is not only a waste of money, but, 
what is of so much more importance, the employment 
of chemical germicides tends inevitably to lessen the 
effective belief in the more natural cleansing methods 
and measures, and leads to a sense of false security. 
The necessity for the use of chemical disinfectants in 
the schools must be considered at present " not 
proven " ; very fallacious ideas of their advantages are 
current on account of the question of their advantages 
being so bound up with trade considerations. Where 
any of these alleged germicides are used they must be 
used with a full appreciation of the conditions alone 
under which they can effectively act, conditions, for 
example, of the amount of dilution and conditions 
allowing of prolonged contact with the material to be 
disinfected. A germicide is usually judged by its 
power at a certain dilution of acting as such upon 
germs cultivated for the purpose when compared with 
the power exerted by a solution of carbolic acid of the 
same strength. Thus a germicide may under these 
conditions be two, five, ten, or fifteen times as effective 
as a similar solution of carbolic acid, and the germicide 
is then said to have a carbolic acid coefficient of two, 
five, ten, and fifteen, as the case may be. The selection 
of a germicide should then turn largely upon this, and 
the higher the coefficient, other things being equal, the 
better is the germicide ; there is, however, one other 
great qualification, viz. that the germicide in question 
be stable in the presence of organic matter. Some 
disinfectants, e.g. the well-known permanganate of 
potash, are almost at once decomposed in the presence 



SCHOOL AND INFECTIOUS DISEASE 325 

of organic matter and their germicidal power lost. 
Where it is thought necessary to use these chemical 
germicides on surfaces, e.g. floors, walls, desks, seats, 
etc., they should be so used, e.g. in the form of spray or 
otherwise, that the surface is left wet and allowed to 
dry naturally. They should never be used except 
after the most scrupulous attention has been paid to 
ordinary cleansing and flushing with fresh air. The 
disinfection of all hangings, etc., must be in specially 
constructed disinfectors, where the process is carried 
out by steam or by exposing to the fumes, for instance, 
of formalin vapour or of sulphur dioxide. Disinfection, 
so far as the school is concerned, of the character 
described above will be necessary only, if at all, upon 
occasions when there has been an epidemic of 
diphtheria or of scarlet fever, but it is not possible to 
emphasize too clearly that the part played by school 
premises in the spread of disease is practically nil 
where there is no overcrowding, where there is efficient 
ventilation, and where natural hygienic methods are 
conscientiously carried out. 



CHAPTER XVIII 
THE SCHOOL BUILDING 

The planning of the school — Central-hall type — Pavilion type — 
The Assembly Hall. 

IN the preceding chapters we have been discussing 
the child, in its various aspects, and we must pass 
now, in this and in the succeeding chapter, to a con- 
sideration of the school environment. In view of the 
fact that so important a part of a child's life is spent 
on the school premises, in view, too, of the complexity 
of school arrangements, and of the many interests 
which have to be considered, we shall be prepared to 
find that this part of our subject is a many-sided one ; 
that matters of principle and the relative importance of 
principles will continually meet us, and then, having 
decided upon these, the details as to the carrying of 
them out will afford scope for almost endless difference 
of opinion. 

In considering the planning of the school building 
we must take for granted that a suitable site has been 
selected, a site as far as possible removed from the 
noise of a main thoroughfare ; not overshadowed by 
adjoining property ; with satisfactory natural drainage, 
ample playground accommodation, and, if at all possible, 
— as may be practicable in an outlying district or in the 

country, — a field adjoining it. In towns the site should, 

326 



THE SCHOOL BUILDING 327 

when practicable, be chosen near a public park or some 
other open space affording opportunities for open-air 
education and organized games.' 

" The most should be made of any natural advantages which 
the site may possess. Pleasant views should be left open instead 
of being shut off by high boundary walls. ... If it is consistent 
with the proper lighting of the school, any large trees may well be 
preserved to give shade in summer to open-air classes." * 

Whatever the type of building, there are certain 
prime essentials which must be observed and which 
admit of no compromise. Having secured these, con- 
venience and ease of administration must be studied 
and arranged for at every turn. 

A small school — one with, perhaps, but a couple of 
classrooms, or indeed a single classroom used for all 
purposes — is a very different affair from a large depart- 
ment for perhaps three or four hundred children, and 
yet in the main the principles underlying each are 
essentially the same. In the latter case complications 
arise through the necessity of arranging for an Assembly 
Room, and indeed around this and its place and func- 
tions are centred a good many of the practical 
difficulties and differences of opinion in regard to 
school planning. Complications, too, arise in that 
special departments are required — rooms set aside for 
manual training in its various branches or for the 
teaching of other special subjects. Since, however, the 
classroom is the unit in the school of whatever size, 
then, provided that the essentials are secured for such 
classroom, there should be no great difficulty in linking 
up the component parts into a whole. 

* Building Regulations for Public Elementary Schools^ 19 14, 
p. 5. 



328 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

Essential Requirements 

The essential requirements are very simple — so 
simple, indeed, that perhaps that is the very reason 
why they are sometimes overlooked ; at any rate, 
magnificent schools may frequently be seen where 
attention has not been paid to them, and yet no 
arrangements however elaborate and no refinements 
however perfect can ever atone for want of attention to 
the primary essentials. 

Each classroom should be so constructed as to 
permit of (i) an abundant supply of fresh air; (2) a 
maximum amount of daylight ; (3) for some hours during 
the day, direct sunlight. 

To ensure these last two requirements, the school 
should be planned so as to give as many of the class- 
rooms as possible the best aspect. For most parts of 
England a south-east aspect is the best. 

The Planning of the School 

In discussing the planning of a school to meet 
these requirements, we shall find it most convenient and 
in order to avoid repetition to imagine a school large 
enough to need the provision of several classrooms and 
of an Assembly Hall, i.e. for a school of some two or 
three hundred scholars. Moreover, we shall assume 
for the present that the school is to be " naturally " 
ventilated. 

We may recognize two main types, each with many 
modifications: (i) that in which the classrooms open 
direct into the Assembly Hall ; (2) that in which the 
classrooms are independent of the Assembly Hall. 
The first, known as the " central-hall " type, is found 
in two main modifications. In the one the Hall is 



THE SCHOOL BUILDING 329 

literally "central," in the other it is built round on 
three sides only. This is the commonest type of 
modern school throughout the country. In the second 
type, in which the Assembly Hall is independent of the 
classrooms, these latter open into a corridor or veranda, 
and may be designated as the " pavilion " type of 
school. Examples of such a type are given in Figures 
13 and 14, a type originally brought into promin- 
ence by Dr. George Reid, Medical Officer for the 
County of Stafford,* and subsequently elaborated in 
particular by Dr. Barwise, Medical Officer for Derby- 
shire, and Mr. Widdows, the County Architect, working 
in collaboration. 



Central- Hall Type 

The central-hall type impresses one at once with 
its compactness, and with the sense of ready super- 
vision it seems to afford of the whole school ; it com- 
mends itself from the point of view of convenience and 
of ease in administration. Tested by the three main 
hygienic essentials above laid down, it is hardly, how- 
ever, so satisfactory. In regard to ventilation, it will 
be observed that any cross ventilation — and upon 
efficient cross ventilation any " natural " ventilation 
essentially depends — must, for the majority of the 
classrooms, be into the Assembly Room, which cannot 
be considered entirely satisfactory, especially where the 
room is built round upon all sides. It cannot be 
considered satisfactory in the hot days of summer, 
where a direct current through into the open air upon 

* See the " Planning of Schools, with Special Reference to their 
Ventilation," Geo. Reid, M.D., D.P.H. (London : Fud/zc Health, 
1907), and on same subject see Report of Dr. Reid to the Stafford- 
shire County Council Education Committee, 1908. 



330 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

both sides obviously has an advantage. It is not 
altogether satisfactory, either, in stormy days in winter, 
when the weather and direction of the wind is such 
that it is impossible to have the usual windows open, 
since it is then necessary to rely upon the openings into 
the Assembly Room, which can hardly provide ventila- 
tion other than insufficient. 

The second essential, viz. a maximum amount of 
daylight, can be arranged for, nearly if not quite as 
well, by a school of the central-hall type as by any 
other. The third, direct sunlight into each classroom, 
is, however, difficult to arrange for in a school of the 
central-hall type, though, if this point is specially kept 
in view in the planning, a fairly satisfactory result can 
be obtained ; one frequently, however, sees schools of 
this type planned with classrooms facing north. 
Opinion has somewhat changed in regard to the 
advantage of arranging classrooms so that the sun may 
shine in, but however much it may be advisable to 
avoid this in hot countries where the sun is almost 
constantly shining, there can be no doubt that in the 
more northern countries, and certainly in our own, the 
few very hot days which occur in summer must not be 
allowed to count as against the great majority of days 
when the sunshine is so welcome. Any disadvantage 
may be overcome by the use of blinds (including out- 
side blinds) and curtains when necessary, and the 
presence of direct sunlight for some time during the 
school hours makes a vast difference, not only to the 
cheerfulness of the room, but also to the quality of the 
atmosphere ; of its advantage from the point of view of 
the health of the children there can be no doubt. A 
practical acquaintance with classrooms, especially per- 
haps in the north of England, into which the sun never 
shines during school hours, and the contrast of such 



THE SCHOOL BUILDING 331 

rooms with others, cannot but convince anyone of the 
propriety of considering the need for direct sunlight 
into each classroom as a primary essential. 

Pavilion Type 

When we come now to test a school of the pavilion 
type by these three general requirements, we shall find 
that they may be all perfectly met. As regards each 
classroom, the essential feature in this type of school is 
that the classroom opens and ventilates into a fresh-air 
corridor or into, indeed, merely a veranda, so that 
perfect cross ventilation is secured ; and further, as we 
have seen above, should the wind and rain prevent the 
usual windows from being opened, those on the corridor 
side may be used. Such a school, too, permits of all 
its classrooms, or as many as one chooses, facing in a 
more or less southerly direction ; at any rate, none 
need face more to the north than E. by S.E. on the 
one hand nor W. by S.W. on the other. The lighting 
of the rooms can also be perfectly carried out : what- 
ever further need there may be for additional lighting 
of the side of the room opposite the main windows 
can readily be met. Thus, so far as the three main 
essentials go, the advantages seem clearly in favour of 
the pavilion type of school. 

The Assembly Hall 

Having now considered the main essentials in 
regard to the unit, the classroom, we may turn to the 
Assembly Hall, and we shall find that the usefulness 
of this room is closely connected with the type of 
school chosen. For what purposes, then, is a large hall 
needed in connection with a school ? Its necessity has 



332 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

usually been considered from the point of view of pro- 
viding a room for the assembling of children, but it also 
is needed for purposes other than this. Thus it is of 
great service when classes are being taken together for 
singing ; when the weather does not permit of physical 
drill being taken out of doors such a hall is essential, 
and for such a purpose it is needed with great frequency 
throughout the winter. Then it is necessary to 
remember that the room may be needed as a gym- 
nasium and provided with some simple apparatus as 
used in connection with Swedish drill for older boys 
and girls. True, this will not be necessary for children 
in an Elementary School, but where there is no pro- 
vision of specially built gymnasia, as may be the case 
especially, say, in an outlying district of a large town 
or in a country district, it may be of the greatest con- 
venience for older boys and girls in connection with 
Continuation Classes, for example, to have the use of a 
room of this sort in the evenings for a gymnasium. 
Further, in wet weather, when the children cannot well 
go out into the playground to play, they need a room 
which they can use in recess-time. A hall in connec- 
tion with a school should be judged, then, according as 
it fulfils the function of — 
(i) An assembly room ; 

(2) A playroom in bad weather; 

(3) A room where combined classes can meet, e.g. 

for singing ; 

(4) A room for physical drill ; and 

(5) ^ gymnasium. 

Viewed in the light of these tests, we shall find that 
the main room, as it is frequently called, of the central- 
hall type of school fulfils the first condition, of course, 
perfectly well ; indeed, it is built primarily as an 
assembly room. For all the other purposes it has two 



THE SCHOOL BUILDING 333 

serious disadvantages: (i) due to its nearness to the 
classrooms, and (2) due to lack of satisfactory ventila- 
tion. Its proximity to the classrooms is disadvan- 
tageous from the point of view of noise ; this holds 
good if it be used for singing or physical drill or, above 
all, as a playroom. And again, when used for similar 
purposes or as a gymnasium, much dust is raised, and 
this constitutes a very real drawback. The second 
disadvantage, viz. that connected with ventilation, 
operates under similar conditions. For any one of the 
purposes mentioned it is preferable to have windows 
which come well down and which can in the summer, 
for example, be thrown well open, so that being in the 
room is comparable to being out of doors. From the 
point of view, then, of utility the main room of a 
central-hall school fails in many particulars ; indeed, 
it may be looked upon as planned and built as an 
assembly room primarily, and to be lacking in adapta- 
tion for any other purpose. 

A school built on the pavilion plan postulates a 
hall unconnected immediately with the classrooms. 
Such a hall may, however, take one of two forms : it 
may be quite detached and connected with the main 
part of the school by a corridor only, as in Figure 13, 
or it may take such a position in the school as shown 
in Figure 14 (p. 354). The exact position adopted will 
depend on the site and on the special requirements of 
the case, and upon the bias of those concerned in the 
erection of the school : it is a matter rather of detail 
than of principle. It will be evident, then, that, whether 
judged from the point of view of the three essentials 
necessary to be observed in the planning of a school 
or from the point of view of the value to be obtained 
out of the main hall, there are decided reasons for 
adopting the pavilion type. There are two main draw- 



r 






-I 


=si 










+ + 








■■i 


42^ 






- 


1: 




■ 


w 

P3 




s; 


•=>+ 








a - 


+ + 




t; 


-1 






1 














O 


= 


i- D 


X 






H 


y 


1 T 


:2 




^ 






H ^ 










r^ 









m>-) 



THE SCHOOL BUILDING 335 

backs alleged, one of which may be a very real draw- 
back, and the other is probably largely imaginary. A 
4 school of the pavilion' type spreads over a large area of 
* ground, and in some districts this may be a serious 
objection. A difficulty may arise, however, on account 
of the small area of the actual ground available : the 
shape also in some cases may be such as to make it 
difficult to build a school designed on this plan, but 
even then it must be an extremely rare occurrence if 
this could not be done in a modified form. The 
second objection raised is that the head teacher is 
unable to exercise so good supervision of the school 
as is possible when seated at his desk in the central 
hall and with his eye on the door of each classroom. 
^m^ This objection will, however, hardly permit of any 
scrutiny. Supervision by the head teacher other than 
that implied in a personal knowledge of each child, in 
so far as practicable, and in first-hand acquaintance in 
^ the classroom of the work of each teacher, cannot be 
considered of any merit. 

It will be noticed that we have all through discussed 
the question on the supposition that the school was to 
be " naturally " ventilated. The adoption of mechanical 
ventilation modifies some of the arguments used. Where 
this form of ventilation is adopted, the more compact 
the school the better, and from this point of view the 
central-hall type is admirable. All the other objec- 
tions, however, against this plan hold, and especially 
those in reference to the use of the main hall. It 
should be added that a school built with a detached 
hall can, of course, be mechanically ventilated, should 
such a form of ventilation be preferred. 



CHAPTER XIX 
THE SCHOOL BUILDING (continued) 

Ventilation — Various methods — The pros and cons of 
mechanical ventilation— " Natural" ventilation — How to render 
efficient — Warming of the school — Different methods — Lighting of 
the classroom — Artificial lighting. - 

THE ventilation of schools has been, and indeed is, 
the subject of frequent controversy, and it will 
be apparent that a full discussion of the subject in the 
way in which it is usually approached will be quite 
impossible in the space at our disposal, and indeed for 
our purpose it is not necessary. We shall assume 
simply that the whole problem is to renew the air with 
sufficient frequency as to make the air of the classroom 
as nearly like the outside air as possible, and this, it 
must be always remembered, not only in regard to its 
chemical content of, e.g.^ CO2, but from the point of 
view also of its physical properties — that is to say, the 
air of the classroom must not only chemically resemble 
the outside air, but it must feel like it. 

Methods of Ventilation 

There are two main types of methods of ventilating 
a classroom ; these may be found in combination to 

some degree, still they may conveniently be considered 

336 



THE SCHOOL BUILDING 337 

as separate systems and designated respectively the 
natural and mechanical. 

In the first, natural methods alone are relied upon, 
e.g. open windows placed on opposite sides of a room. 
In a mechanical system the arrangements will involve 
the extraction of foul air or the supply of pure air. In 
the first case advantage is taken of the fact that the 
impure air is heated by passage through the lungs, and 
rises ; endeavours are made to remove this air by 
special exit shafts in which an updraught is created by 
means of a fan or gas jet, etc. When air is supplied 
by mechanical means no reliance whatever is placed 
upon any such chance agencies as windows, but a 
scientific calculation is made of the exact amount of 
air each classroom requires when full of pupils, and by 
means of a fan air is propelled through ducts into each 
room at a given rate, and by means of another system 
of ducts the foul air is discharged from the building. 
The systems, it will be observed, may readily overlap. 
Thus, mechanical means, e.g. a. fan, may be used to 
assist the upward extraction of the foul air, and where 
mechanical ventilation is used provision may be also 
allowed for open windows under certain conditions. 
The main controversy, nevertheless, centres around the 
advantages and disadvantages of the supply of air by 
natural or mechanical means. Though it may seem 
somewhat a reversal of the right order, we shall find it 
more convenient to consider first the supply of air by 
mechanical means. 



Supply of Air by Mechanical Means 

The movement in favour of this form of ventilation 
arose on account of the extremely unsatisfactory venti- 
lation of most Elementary Schools. Even at its best 
22 



338 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

the ventilation was usually bad, and at its worst — and 
upon going into schools, especially while evening classes 
were being held, it might frequently be found in this 
condition — its failure was complete indeed. The con- 
tinual excuse for the air of a room being so foul was 
the draught caused by open windows, and at the base 
of all advocacy of mechanical ventilation was the 
assumption that it is impossible to change the air of 
a classroom sufficiently often to ensure its purity by 
" natural " methods of ventilation. 

It was clear that purity of the air in a classroom 
could, at any rate in theory, readily be obtained by 
mechanical means. By means of a suitable system of 
ducts, one set through which air could be propelled 
into the classrooms, and another set through which the 
air could flow out, it was manifest that the air could be 
changed with practically any frequency desired, the 
volume of air flowing in and out of a room in a given 
time depending upon the propelling force. Not only 
was it therefore apparent that a classroom could, from 
this point of view, be satisfactorily ventilated, but it 
seemed clear that the problem of heating the room 
could be solved at the same time. There are at the 
present time many schools in this country mechanically 
ventilated and heated in this way, some where the 
principles have been carried out badly or only in- 
differently, others where they have been carried out in 
great perfectness. In criticizing the system, and in 
considering its advantages and disadvantages, we shall 
do so when the system is seen at its best. 

Four main conditions have to be fulfilled : (i) The 
air must be screened so that it may reach the class- 
room in as pure a condition as possible ; (2) arrange- 
ments must be made to ensure the propulsion of the 
required volume of air into the main entrance duct ; 



THE SCHOOL BUILDING 339 

(3) means must be present of moistening the air to the 
required degree of humidity ; and (4) there must be 
apparatus for heating the air to the required tempera- 
ture before it reaches the classroom. 

For purifying the air various forms of screens have 
been adopted : it is, of course, only attempted to rid 
the air of its more gross impurities, such as dirt, soot, 
etc. Too fine a screen is impracticable, since great 
difficulty would be experienced in drawing the air 
through it. Coke breeze forms a very serviceable 
screen, while finer forms are also in use, e.g. those made 
of jute or coco-nut fibre. These latter screens cleanse 
the air rather more thoroughly, but on the other hand 
need the use of more power to draw the air through. 
A coke screen is, as a matter of fact, sufficiently effec- 
tive for all practical purposes. The heating of the air 
so as to ensure the warming of the school at the same 
time as its ventilation is best undertaken by batteries 
of steam coils placed at the bottom of each shaft to 
each room. The temperature of these can, of course, 
be regulated, but the main method of regulating the 
heat of the air as it passes up the shaft to the class- 
room is to regulate the amount which passes over these 
batteries, a simple mechanical device determining what 
proportion of the air, the whole if so desired, shall pass 
straight up the shaft without passing over the battery, 
and what proportion shall pass through the battery on 
its way. In this way the requirements of each class- 
room can be separately studied. 

The amount of water vapour in the air driven into 
the school can be regulated with considerable accuracy. 
On some days there will be no need to moisten the air, 
|but the deprivation of moisture consequent upon heating 
the air will usually cause the air by the time it reaches 
^the classrooms to be seriously below the normal 



340 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

standard, and hence steps must be taken to moisten 
it before it enters. This may be done in the first 
place by allowing a stream of water, the quantity of 
which can be regulated, to flow over the jute or coke 
screen, as the case may be, when the air, as it passes 
through, will become charged with a certain amount 
of water vapour. This, however, frequently does not 
suffice adequately to moisten the air, and steam jets 
are provided in addition in connection with each 
" battery " spoken of, at the bottom of each shaft. 

All passages and ducts in connection with this 
system should be kept absolutely clean, and the inlet 
ducts should be built of glazed bricks. The air is 
drawn in from the outside and driven along the system 
of ducts into the school by means of a fan, the size 
and the velocity of which will be determined by the 
amount of air required. 

Such in outline is one form of mechanical ventila- 
tion. What are its advantages and what its drawbacks, 
judged, not as has already been suggested by the 
results in a school where faulty construction makes it 
of necessity more or less a failure, but by the system 
at its best ? 

(i) The amount of air supplied can be accurately 
gauged, so that the air of a classroom can be changed 
with whatever frequency is desired. 

(2) There is very effective control of the source of 
the air allowed to enter ; it need not be taken from 
near the ground, but, by means of a shaft or small 
tower carried as high as may seem necessary, the air 
may be taken from as many feet above the ground 
level as may be considered advisable. 

(3) The mechanical impurities in the air can be 
removed, or at any rate in large measure ; this is, of 
course, a real advantage in large towns and in foggy 



THE SCHOOL BUILDING 341 

weather, when very considerable, though not complete, 
cleansing of the air can be effected. 

(4) The temperature of the air can be regulated 
with much accuracy, and the requirements of each 
classroom separately studied. 

(5) The moisture can be similarly regulated ; and 

(6) In very hot weather the temperature of the 
rooms is appreciably lower than that outside. 

Alongside of these great advantages which count 
to the full in a large manufacturing town, there are, 
on the other hand, some considerable disadvantages : — 

(i) The system is costly, both in its initiation and 
in its upkeep, partly on account of the actual amount 
of fuel used, and partly because the system needs, if it 
is going to be run successfully — and successful running 
depends upon constant intelligent attention to detail at 
every point — skilled supervision. 

(2) However satisfactory a chemical examination 
of the air in the classroom may show it to be, there is 
nevertheless something wanting in the physical pro- 
perties of the air : there is frequently an unmistakable 
lack of freshness ; the air feels stale on occasion, 
especially to any one not habitually breathing it. 

(3) It is difficult to distribute the current evenly 
over the room, and draughts are apt to occur in one or 
two places, and to be a serious inconvenience either 
to teacher or scholars ; this, however, is but a minor 
objection, and can usually be met. 

(4) There must inevitably be a considerable 
accumulation of foul air in the neighbourhood of the 
outlet, and from the construction and arrangement of 
a classroom some child or children must sit in the near 
neighbourhood of the outlet. 

(5) The absence of open windows is a bad training 
for the children. 



342 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

In coming to a decision in regard to this question 
it is important not to allow oneself to be prejudiced 
by the fact that some schools which are mechanically 
ventilated are a failure. The system seen at its best 
unquestionably works extremely well, and almost, 
indeed, without a hitch or complaint. But even then 
the questions must inevitably arise : Is it necessary ? Is 
the increased cost worth incurring ? Are the hermeti- 
cally sealed windows worth the price paid for them ? 
To those who believe that efficient ventilation can 
never be obtained by so-called " natural " means, the 
answer will probably be in the affirmative, and, indeed, 
such an answer one can well understand being given, 
when the building of a school in the centre of a large 
manufacturing town is under consideration. 

Removal of Foul Air by Mechanical 
Means 

In this form of ventilation an attempt is made to 
increase the volume of air passing through a room in 
a given time by creating, by means of heat in some 
form, a " head " in a ventilator in the ceiling of a room, 
which opens into a duct which is again connected with 
the ducts from other rooms, and the foul air from all of 
these is discharged into the open air through a common 
exit shaft. The theory is that as air is admitted at the 
bottom of the outside wall of the room and passes over 
radiators, or as it comes in through the open windows 
or through such contrivances as Tobin's tubes, it per- 
meates the room and is gradually drawn, as it rises up, 
to the extracting shaft in the ceiling, and by this means 
the air, so soon as it is fouled, passes out of the room, 
its place being taken by incoming fresh air. The 
system as a means of changing the air in a classroom 



THE SCHOOL BUILDING 343 

with sufficient frequency is more satisfactory in theory 
than in practice. The necessary change of the air in 
the room can only be depended upon to occur when 
ideal conditions are present, e.g. on a still, cold day. 
The action of the wind blowing over the exit shaft may 
seriously impede its usefulness ; there are many cross- 
currents in the room, and downward currents, in spite 
of the " head " in the extracting shaft ; and the foul air 
mingles with the pure throughout the whole room. 
The action of the system is, too, frequently interfered 
with by open windows, indeed under some conditions 
the extracting shaft will be found to be hardly acting 
as such at all. Its extracting power can of course be 
assisted by some mechanical means, e.g. an electric fan 
in the ventilator in the ceiling or in the main exit shaft. 
As soon as the system becomes complicated in this 
manner, a form of ventilation is being adopted which 
in regard to control of the quality of the air supplied, 
opportunity for its moistening and precision of working, 
etc., cannot compete with the form of mechanical 
ventilation already described. This form of ventilation 
can at most be looked upon as an adjunct to a frankly 
natural system of ventilation by means of open windows, 
an adjunct which may prove useful on certain occasions 
and in certain conditions of the weather ; how far it is 
worth troubling about will depend upon how far we 
conceive a purely '' natural " system to be efficient.* 

* The views of the Board of Education as expressed in the 
Building Regulations for Public Elementary Schools (1914) are 
that generally the best results will be obtained by making full use 
of well-arranged windows to secure cross-ventilation, ample heating- 
power (25-30 square feet of heating surface per 1000 cubic feet) 
being provided. 



344 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

Natural Ventilation 

There are several recent developments which tend 
to a favourable consideration of the question of 
" natural " ventilation. There is, for instance, a more 
wholesome appreciation of fresh air than formerly, and 
the principles upon which sanatoria are built and con- 
structed are permeating into ordinary life. There is, 
too, less horrors of " draughts," not that there is any 
virtue in what can reasonably be called a draught, but 
the very feeling of air in motion is taken exception to 
by some people ; further, there is a tendency to allow 
an increasing amount of floor-space per child ; where, 
as is sometimes the case, and advantageously too, i 5 
square feet are allowed per child, it is clear that there 
will be less difficulty in changing the air frequently 
than when only the original minimum 8 square feet * is 
allowed. Then, also, there is a general tendency to 
work in lower temperatures than formerly, and this has 
an important bearing on the question. Lastly, in the 
past no adequate attempt can be said to have been made 
to ventilate a classroom by " natural " methods, and since 
more thought has been given to the subject the possi- 
bilities in this direction have considerably enlarged. 

In order to make " natural " ventilation satisfactory 
the following conditions need to be satisfied : — 

(i) Arrangements should be made for the continual 
entry of fresh air into the room while the scholars are 
in it, and in such a way as not to cause a violent 
draught in one spot, 

* At least 10 square'feet is now required, except in the case of 
rooms for younger children, where 9 square feet of floor area per 
head is permitted for children under 7 years of age ; 12 square feet 
of area per head is suggested for combined class- and playrooms 
for younger children. 



i 



THE SCHOOL BUILDING 345 

(2) There should be efficient cross-ventilation so 
arranged that the main ventilation of the room can be 
effected from either side. 

(3) All windows should be easily opened, the 
mechanism being such that a child can manipulate it. 

(4) A large part of the window space should be 
capable of being quickly thrown open so that a com- 
plete flushing of the room with air in a few minutes 
can be effected, and this is necessary also so that 
in the summer-time, when the weather permits, the 
air can stream through the room and so render it 
as pleasant as and pleasanter than wdrking out of 
doors. 

There can hardly be any doubt that these conditions, 
in so far as they can be fulfilled at all, will be the most 
capable of fulfilment in a school planned upon the 
pavilion principle, each classroom opening into a fresh- 
air corridor or simply into a veranda. The actual 
Bta arrangements of the windows are matters of considerable 
y importance. Perhaps the most important point to bear 
in mind is that sufficient windows should be made to 
open ; some even advocate that there should be no 
part of the window space sealed. This, however, is 
not literally necessary in order to carry out the above 
conditions. Nevertheless, windows made to open need 
not be opened unless required, and it is certainly better 
to have too much of the window space available for 
opening than too little. Then the principal window 
should occupy the whole available space on one side of 
the room so as to distribute the air as freely as possible. 
The following arrangement will permit of the conditions 
for efficient ventilation being effectively carried out : * 
^ Along the top, a row of centre-hung windows to open 
vertically ; these allow of the admission of little or of 
^See also small print at end of chapter. 



346 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

much air, and are to be preferred to hoppers in this 
situation. At the bottom of the window alternately 
hopper windows with side pieces and swivel-jointed 
windows hung vertically ; if preferred these can be 
made as casement windows opening either upwards 
or outwards. The rest of the window can be made 
to open if desired. Such an arrangement gives wide 
choice ; atmospheric conditions outside vary much, and 
corresponding variations can be made in the manner in 
which the air is admitted ; the hoppers at the bottom 
of the window will be found of the greatest service, 
and in summer, and on warm days generally, and for 
flushing the room, the large swivel-jointed windows or 
casements are indispensable. On the corridor side of 
the room the window space should come down to within 
about 6 feet from the ground, and at this level hoppers 
should be arranged, thus maintaining always an ex- 
cellent form of cross-ventilation. Above them,^ and 
opening directly into the outer air, should again be 
a row of swivel-jointed windows for use on occasions 
when the conditions outside make it almost impossible 
to have more than a slight amount of window open on 
the other side. 

The efficient working of a " natural " system of 
ventilation such as the above must obviously depend 
much upon the teacher. With many teachers, one is 
bound to admit, it would not succeed, so dormant is 
the " sanitary conscience," but with the newer ideas 
upon hygiene already alluded to, and with the increased 
emphasis on the hygienic side of education which is 
now being laid in the Training College curriculum, the 
personal factor in regard to the teacher will probably 
not tell greatly against the system in the future. How 
well both teachers and scholars are able to bear not 
only fresh air but comparative cold is well shown in the 



THE SCHOOL BUILDING 347 

Open-Air Schools, and the conditions suggested above 
are, of course, far less rigorous than those obtaining in 
such schools. 

Such an arrangement of ventilation as indicated 
above does away entirely with any need for the 
usual ventilation accessories ; all such apparatus as 
Tobin's tubes and roof ventilators of all kinds are not 
only unnecessary but practically useless ; the latter, 
moreover, are apt to act as inlets at times, and' they 
postulate dust-collecting ducts with which there is 
considerable satisfaction in dispensing. 

The further question which remains is as to how 
far the above method of ventilation can be considered 
satisfactory where the classrooms open into a central 
hall. That this arrangement cannot possibly be as 
satisfactory as in the case of a school built on the 
pavilion plan seems clear even when one side of the 
hall is unsurrounded by any other part of the school 
building, and indeed, if natural ventilation is going to 
be frankly depended upon, the central-hall plan must 
be given up and the pavilion principle carried con- 
sistently throughout the whole school. 

The Warming of the School 

The methods of warming may be classified, as far 
as school buildings are concerned, according as the 
warming is by (i) steam, (2) hot water under high 
pressure, and (3) hot water under medium or low 
pressure. Warming by means of the open fireplace 
need not detain us : if it be used at all it will be an 
accessory only, pleasant, no doubt, but hardly justifiable 
except in very small schools on account of the trouble 
and expense involved. 

Closed stoves cannot be considered satisfactory : 



348 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

there is usually no justification for them other than the 
cheapness of their installation. 

Steam and hot water under high pressure are 
unsatisfactory for schools ; the heat is too intense and too 
concentrated in one place ; though cheaper than other 
methods in installation, it is if anything more expensive 
in the management ; moreover, through contact of the 
air laden with dust particles a peculiar quality is 
transmitted to the air, and an objectionable smell is 
almost necessarily associated with such methods of 
warming. Hot water at medium or low pressure, then, 
is the best method. 

Opinions will differ as to how far the heating 
surface should be by means of pipes or radiators ; 
in the former the heat is excellently distributed, and 
additional coils can be put under the main window. 
Radiators are more pleasing to the eye, and the pipes 
connecting them need be only quite small ; it costs 
more, however, to instal a system of radiators than 
a system of hot-water pipes. Many prefer radiators 
in that they allow of air, admitted from the outside, 
being drawn over them, so that a continual stream of 
warmed, fresh air is brought into the room ; this in 
practice is not of much advantage, and where a class- 
room is ventilated as above is not necessary. From 
the point of view of cleanliness it is difficult to have 
anything more satisfactory than hot-water pipes, 
sufficiently raised from the ground and sufficiently far 
removed from the wall to allow of their being got at 
all round for cleaning purposes. 

Whatever system of warming is adopted, it is of 
great importance to have sufficient surface ; too little is 
a common fault. This is, of course, of special import- 
ance in a school built on the pavilion plan, where 
" natural " ventilation is alone relied upon. One must 



k 



THE SCHOOL BUILDING 349 

admit that considerable expense is involved, since 
wherever there is a large amount of glass, and this 
we shall find necessary quite apart from the question 
of ventilation, correspondingly more heating surface 
becomes necessary * 

The pipes or radiators in each classroom should 
be capable of separate control so that the heat may be 
regulated as required. 

In regard to the temperature at which a class- 
room should be kept, much variation of opinion exists. 
One thing, however, is undoubtedly true, viz. that there 
is an increasing tendency to lower the temperature 
which it is considered necessary to maintain. This is 
an important point, and has, as we have already seen, 
considerable bearing upon the possibility of ventilating 
a classroom by " natural " means alone. There is no 
need for the temperature to exceed 60° F., and it should 
not be lower than 55° F. 



The Lighting of the Classroom 

Nothing is more notable in many of the older 
schools, unless it be their inefficient ventilation, than 
their inadequate lighting. We shall be concerned both 
with daylight lighting and with artificial lighting. The 
latter has received, for the most part, but scant attention 
in England, partly perhaps because it is not often 
needed for more than a comparatively short time in a 
Day School. Evening classes are, generally speaking, 
carried on under the most crude methods of lighting, 
and more attention to this question would seem to be 
urgently needed. 

It may probably be safely stated that, so far as 
daylight is concerned, and provided it comes from the 
* See also small print at end of chapter. 



3 50 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

correct quarter of the classroom, it is impossible to 
make too much provision for its entry. The main 
light should come from the left, and the architect 
may safely, irrespective of any question as to the 
relation of the space through which light is admitted to 
the amount of floor space, arrange for the maximum 
amount of light possible from this direction. The 
amount of light to be admitted must not be judged by 
that necessary on a sunny day or when the sky is clear, 
but by that necessary during the winter months, on 
dull days, for these between them form a large propor- 
tion of the whole. Excessive sunlight can be excluded, 
but insufficient natural light cannot be added to ; 
further, too, the part of the room the most remote from 
the source of the light is the part to be considered. 
This necessity for abundant entrance of daylight must 
be borne in mind when constructing the window ; not 
only should this extend as high up as possible and as 
close into the corners as possible, but wide mullions 
must be avoided, as they cast troublesome shadows. 
Some even advocate the throwing of a steel girder right 
across the top of the window so as to avoid the use of 
any mullions at all except such as form part of the 
ordinary window-frame. Where, however, there are 
no central piers the framework of the window has to 
be made correspondingly heavy to resist the wind 
pressure. 

Granted, then, that all the possible available light 
must be obtained from the main window on the left 
hand of the scholars, is any further provision for light- 
ing the room necessary ? Additional lighting, either 
from behind in the corner farthest removed from the 
main window or from the right hand, is permissible, 
always provided it is not sufficiently strong to counter- 
balance the left-hand light. This means that the 



THE SCHOOL BUILDING 351 

windows used must not come too far down — preferably, 
from this point of view, not lower than 8 feet from 
the floor. What is chiefly aimed at is rather illumina- 
tion of the white ceiling, which will then reflect enough 
additional light to light up the darker part of the 
room. We have already advocated that the windows 
which open into the fresh-air corridor should come 
down within 6 feet of the floor from the point of view 
of ventilation. Probably the light from these, coming 
from the north or very largely so and already having 
had to traverse the corridor, will not be found too 
strong ; but more opaque glass can be used for the 
lower part of the window if necessity should arise.* 

In the older type of schools, attention to certain 
details will ensure the entrance of the maximum 
amount of daylight feasible under the circumstances. 
Where possible, the existing windows should be en- 
larged ; the windows should be cleaned at sufficiently 
frequent intervals, any panes of frosted or ribbed glass 
should be replaced by plain glass, and the overshadow- 
ing of windows by trees, shrubs, etc., prevented by 
suitable lopping. 

Artificial Lighting 

The artificial lighting of classrooms has until recently 
received but scant attention. The lighting of nearly 
all the older schools is bad, both in regard to the form 
of luminant used and to the positions of the lights. 
Even to-day, with the many improvements made in 
connection with gas illumination, the naked gas jet, 
and by no means even then with the best form of 
burner, is used. How extremely unsatisfactory this is 
is amply demonstrated every time one goes into a 
* See also small print at end of chapter. 



352 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

classroom artificially lighted in this way. The illu- 
mination is nearly always insufficient, while the 
atmosphere is very objectionable. Suitable incan- 
descent burners and shades will increase several-fold 
the light obtained from the use of the same amount 
of gas, and the air will be less polluted. 

For convenient and satisfactory lighting of a class- 
room, however, the electric light is greatly superior to 
gas ; no deterioration of the air of the room results ; 
there is an absence of heat, and very little, if any, 
harmful effect on the paint, etc., of the walls and ceilings 
of the classroom. 

The advantages as regards the lighting include the 
absence of shadows below the lamps and the possibility 
of perfect reflection of the light ; also the points of 
light can be distributed throughout the room with the 
utmost ease. 

The only disadvantage of electric lighting is the 
fact that it is somewhat more costly, but this is counter- 
balanced by the saving effected in the amount required 
to be spent in redecorating the classrooms. 

Authoritative recommendations as to the amount 
of illumination required have been issued by a Com- 
mittee appointed by the Illuminating Engineering 
Society to report on the artificial lighting of schools. 

The Committee advised — 

(i) That for ordinary clerical work (reading and 
writing, etc.) the minimum illumination measured at 
any desk, where the light is required, should not fall 
below 2 foot-candles, i.e. the amount of illumination 
afforded by 2 standard candles at a distance of i 
foot 

(2) That for special work (art classes, stitching 
with dark materials, etc.) a minimum of 4 foot-candles 
is desirable. 



THE SCHOOL BUILDING 353 

(3) In larger classrooms where the pupils are 
more than 20 feet from the blackboard, and in any 
classroom where coloured chalks are used on the 
blackboard, a greater amount of illumination is 
necessary. 

(4) That for assembly rooms, etc., and for general 
illumination, a minimum of i foot-candle measured on 
a horizontal plane 3 feet 3 inches from the ground is 
desirable. 

Avoidance of glare from the sources of light is an 
important aim ; no incandescent surface should be 
visible to the eyes of the children or teachers when 
carrying on their ordinary work. This end may be 
achieved by the use of suitable shades ; ground-glass 
bulbs should be used to obscure the outline of the 
filament of electric lamps. The principal factor in the 
even distribution of the lighting is the correct placing 
of the sources of light,* but considerable assistance is 
afforded by the use of suitable shades which serve to 
spread out the brightness over a considerable area, and 
to prevent any considerable regular reflection from the 
walls and the ceilings of the room, an end also served 
by not allowing any glazed and shining surfaces above 
the dado. 

Many of the classrooms in schools on the Continent 
are lit by the indirect method, i.e, a powerful light from 
as many foci as seem desirable is reflected on to the 
ceiling, and the light is then reflected evenly all over 
the room. The effect produced is excellent, and there 
are no lights to catch and dazzle the eye. To produce 
an illumination equivalent to that obtained by direct 
lighting needs, however, a more powerful source of 

* Suggestions as to the placing of sources of light are made in 
Dr. Kerr's Report to the London County Council Education 
Committee for the year ended 31st March 1907 (pp. 56 and 57). 
23 



354 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 




THE SCHOOL BUILDING 355 

light, and the method is in consequence a very 
expensive one. 

Ripley Council School (see Fig. 14). 

This school accommodates 1200 children and consists of four 
departments, the sexes being divided as soon as they enter school 
into juniors and seniors : in the junior school the children are 
taught from the date of entry up to the age of 9 years ; in the 
senior school, from 9 years of age to the time of leaving. There 
are two halls with cookery and manual rooms ; all four rooms can 
be thrown into one large hall for public meetings, etc. 

As regards hghting, the proportion of glass to floor area is not 
less than i to 5 ; the whole of the lighting is received from the 
vertical faces of the walls. 

The ventilation is by means of hoppers and swing lights on both 
sides of each room. The area of hopper opening on each side is 
approximately 10 square inches per child. 

The heating is by means of low-pressure hot water on the over- 
head system ; the water as it leaves the boiler is taken immedi- 
ately up to the roof and then falls to the different rooms. The 
heating surface per 1000 cubic feet of content is not less than 
30 square feet. Rooms with baths are set apart for medical in- 
spection, and dark-rooms are provided for eye-testing. The usual 
teachers' rooms are provided above the cloakroom, two to each 
department. The courtyards are laid out with grass and shrubs, 
and the whole of the verandas are left open. 

North Wingfield School (see Figs. 15 and 16). 

The arrangements of the two experimental rooms at this 
school are revolutionary as regards the lighting, ventilation, and 
heating. 

The lighting of each room is effected by means of a continuous 
sky-light 5 feet deep placed on the north side. This arrangement 
is claimed to afford a fuller and more equable distribution of light 
than any other. 

The ventilation is independent of the lighting, and is obtained 
by means of doors on the two opposite sides of each room. These 
doors are glazed for their full height and can of course be entirely 
opened. The top half of the door is made to fall in, so that only 
one half need be opened. Should the wind be so strong as to 



356 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 



MORTH 




CRo:)5 5tCTion 



SCALE OF FtET. 

I » !0 IS 10 ts 

I'lll 1 I I I I I I I I f I I II I I I I I t 1 I I tH 




VERAflOAH 



PART or hORTh CLCVATlOh. 

FjG. 15. — Experimental Classrooms at North Wingfield Council 
School, Derbyshire County Council. (G. H. Widdows, 
F.R. LB. A., Architect.) 



THE SCHOOL BUILDING 357 

make this inadvisable, the top portion can be made to fall in as a 
hopper. 

The warming is by means of steam pipes placed under the floor, 
which is made of concrete slabs 2J inches thick. It has been 



COnCRETt SLABS piPE TReriCHj' 




M4^'kH:^r?J^/WMM ^ .'M' 4 ^ 



comcrete: 



5E:cTion. 



Fig. 16. — Section of floor showing arrangements for warming in floor 
of experimental Classrooms in North Wingfield Council School. 

found that a floor temperature of 75° F. is sufficient to keep the 
room warm. 

The floor is kept free from any obstructiop in the form of pipes, 
thus adding greatly to the neatness of the room. The only exposed 
pipe is the one running the length of the room immediately below 
the sky-light. Thirty square feet of heating surface is provided 
per 1000 cubic feet. 



CHAPTER XX 

THE SCHOOL BUILDING (concluded) 

The classroom — The desk and seat — The cloakroom — 
Lavatory accommodation — Sanitary conveniences — The shower 
bath — The teachers' room — The playground. 

PASSING to a consideration of some of the more 
important details in connection with the class- 
room and its furniture and with the various other parts 
of the school, questions of technical detail will be 
avoided, the aim being to emphasize the more essential 
points and others which are of real importance, though 
they may sometimes be looked upon as matters of com- 
paratively small moment. 

In regard to the size of the classroom, the minimum 
floor space at present required by the Code for Ele- 
mentary Schools is lo square feet per child. This is 
considered by many too small an allowance, but to 
raise it to 15 square feet would necessitate classes 
of not more than about forty children, whereas the 
present maximum allowed is sixty. 

The arrangements of the seats and desks and the 
character of these lend themselves to almost unlimited 
variety of opinion ; here, as in all matters connected 
with the school, theoretic requirements and apparent 
scientific accuracy must not be allowed to hold the 

balance unduly as against practical convenience. 

358 



I 



THE SCHOOL BUILDING 359 

The Desk and Seat 

The seat and desk must be considered together in 
relation to one another ; they must always, even if not 
directly connected, be looked upon as one piece of 
furniture. 

The question of the provision of suitable desks and 
seats for children has not yet received the attention it 
merits. As we have seen, the use of unsuitable desks 
results in the production of round shoulders and spinal 
curvature ; the children also get in the way of working 
with the eyes too near their writing or drawing. These 
faults occur when the distance between the desk and 
the seat is too great. In such desks also the child has 
to sit so far forward that the weight of the body, 
instead of being supported by the seat as it should be, 
has to be supported by the legs of the child, thus 
causing an unnecessary strain. 

A school desk, to be satisfactory, must fill the 
following requirements : — 

(i) The seat must support two-thirds of the length 
of the thighs ; the height of the seat from the floor 
must be sufficient to allow the feet to rest on the 
ground when the knees are bent at right angles. 

(2) The height of the edge of the desk next the 
child must be such as to allow the elbow and forearm 
to rest upon it when the child is sitting upright. A 
vertical line dropped from the edge of the desk next 
the child must touch the front edge of the seat (a zero 
desk), or for older children a distance of one inch (a 
plus one desk) may be allowed. 

The slope of the writing surface of the desk should 
be 7 J* to 8° ; the tops should be adjustable so that for 
woodwork, etc., a flat surface is available. 

(3) Back-rests must be provided for each child; 



36o THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

these should reach up to the level of the shoulder- 
blade. The back rest should be sloped and curved so 
as to fit the curves of the body when sitting. 

The desk should be strongly made and free from 
any arrangement in which it is possible to nip the 
fingers. 

Foot-rests are not necessary; they interfere with 
the cleansing and sweeping of the schoolroom. 

There is much to be said for the provision of 
lockers placed in the corridor or in the classroom ; the 
desks can then be lighter in construction. 

In Infants' Departments the use of chairs and 
tables of suitable size is preferable to any form of desk 
with fixed seats. 

The advantages of the single desk and seat are 
many ; not only is each child more easily provided 
with a desk suitable to his needs, but the isolated seat 
in Elementary Schools assists in preventing the spread 
of infectious and contagious disease and vermin, and 
dilutes offensive odours from dirty clothes and un- 
washed bodies — conditions unfortunately which still 
obtain in some cases in schools in the poorer districts. 

If single desks be provided, some arrangement is 
necessary to ensure that each child shall use the size of 
desk best fitted for him. 

A simple method of ensuring this is for the 
different sizes of desks to be numbered or lettered, and 
for a height scale to be painted on the jamb of the 
classroom door with the distinguishing mark of the 
appropriate desk opposite each successive series of 
heights. 

Failing the provision of single desks, dual desks 
retain certain of the advantages mentioned above ; they 
are, however, less convenient when the room is being 
cleansed. 



THE SCHOOL BUILDING 361 

The single desk and seat or the dual desk more 
easily than the continuous desk allow of children who 
are somewhat deaf or have defective vision being placed 
in the front row ; these children, who may be very 
different in size, would probably when the continuous 
desk is in use have to be placed in less suitable posi- 
tions in the class. 

In new schools the Board of Education will only 
permit the provision of single or dual desks. 

Where the continuous desk with single seats or a 
continuous seat are still in use, the best that can be done 
is to arrange for the desks in the different rows to be of 
different sizes. Probably these sizes only will be avail- 
able when the usual arrangement will be for the 
largest desks to be at the back and the smallest in the 
front. 

The continuous desk with single seats allows of the 
more easy cleaning and sweeping of the room than the 
desk with the continuous seat. 

There is a tendency in some quarters to make a 
much freer use of tables and chairs throughout the 
school, and not to confine the provision of this form of 
seat to the Infants' School. This arises from the 
newer methods of education, which base teaching more 
on manual methods than formerly. 

In Secondary Schools there should be no difficulty in 
supplying single desks. The classes are smaller, often 
not more than half the size of those in the Elementary 
Schools, and these older boys and girls, with their many 
books and school belongings, should have each their 
own desk and seat. At the beginning of each term the 
desks should be adjusted and locked, so that no one 
can interfere with them other than the teacher of the 
class. It is true that each class does not always 
remain in the same room, but the seats are occupied by 



362 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

the same scholars, at any rate for the greater part of 
the time. Should another class habitually or occasion- 
ally use the classroom, the boys and girls can be sized 
and allotted to the places most nearly approaching 
their requirements. Of course where, as is the case 
when a special room is allotted, say, for the teaching of 
geography or of a foreign language, the desking of it is 
a very difficult matter, the most that can be done is to 
arrange the seats and desks in rows, those for the 
smallest pupils being in front, and those for the tallest 
behind, the other rows being arranged for the inter- 
mediate heights. Whatever class was then in the room 
would naturally sort itself according to the size of the 
individual pupil. 

The Cloakroom 

The following points should be observed : 

(i) Each child should have its own peg, and the 
pegs should be sufficiently far apart so that the hats 
and clothes do not overlap. (2) The rooms should be 
well lighted and well ventilated ; they should be com- 
pletely cut off from the rooms used for teaching, so as 
to prevent unpleasant smells being carried into the 
classroom. 

To dry the children's outdoor clothing when wet 
in the short time available before it must be used again 
it is necessary to provide an especially equipped drying- 
room opening off each cloakroom ; such provision has 
already been made in many Secondary Schools. 

In the future, no doubt, ample provision will be 
made for Elementary School children to change their 
boots when the occasion arises, and arrangements will 
be made to permit of the boots being dried during 
school hours. 



THE SCHOOL BUILDING 363 

Lavatory Accommodation 

The lavatory accommodation must be ample if a 
high standard of cleanliness in schools is to be arrived 
at; and it cannot be too high. At most Open- Air 
Schools one basin is provided for every 7 to 8 children ; 
similar provision should be made at the ordinary 
Elementary Schools. It is advantageous to have both 
hot and cold water laid on, and ample soap and 
sufficient towels should be provided. It is at present 
probably too much to ask that each child has his or 
her own towel, and that each girl, at any rate, has her 
own brush and comb, but there is much to be gained 
by such an arrangement. 

The Sanitary Conveniences 

The sanitary conveniences cannot be too carefully 
planned. Where the water-carriage system is adopted, 
they can without any objection be placed close to the 
main body of the school ; there is not the slightest 
reason for removing them to the far end of the 
playground, though such a plan is still frequently 
adopted. 

Boys' closets and urinals are better placed in the 
playground, but it is unnecessary for girls' and infants' 
closets to be placed at a distance from the school build- 
ing. They should, however, be cut off from the main 
building and approached by a practically open corridor. 
It is advantageous to have the walls constructed 
throughout of glazed brick. 

Wherever feasible, pedestal closets should be pro- 
vided, each pan having (unless earth closets are used) 
its own flushing arrangement. This latter reform is 
especially required in these days, when there is a 



364 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

tendency to insist upon water closets being put into 
all forms of cottage property, and the argument 
against the use of the separate flush, that it would be 
misused by the children, is evidence of how necessary 
it is to educate the children in the use of such 
apparatus. 

As regards the seat, hard-wood slips inserted on 
each side of the closet basin are preferable to any 
other kind for use in public Elementary Schools. 

Urinals require to be constructed of the best non- 
absorbent, impervious materials, and kept well flushed 
if they are to be kept sanitary. The minimum number 
of water closets required by the Building Regulations 
is one to every 30 to 50 boys, and one to every 10 to 
20 girls. Also 10 feet of urinal must be provided for 
every lOO boys. 

The Teachers' Room, etc. 

Each school should have its teachers' room or 
rooms according to the requirements of the school, 
with suitable lavatory accommodation attached. 

Wherever feasible in a new school, it would be 
advantageous to make provision for the purposes of 
the medical inspection of the children. Such provision 
should comprise (i) a room for the actual inspection, 
providing at least 20 feet in one direction for the testing 
of hearing and vision, and with hot and cold water 
available ; (2) a wciiting-room with a water closet 
adjoining. 

When not required for medical inspection or treat- 
ment, the rooms should be available for the use of the 
teachers, or used for some other definite purpose. 



k 



THE SCHOOL BUILDING 365 

The Playground 

The playground should be ample and, wherever 
possible, the minimum requirement of the Code, viz. 
30 square feet to each child, may with advantage be 
exceeded. Every effort should be made to include a 
field in the property of the school, to be used for 
school games of all kinds. The surface of the play- 
ground proper should be well asphalted : other surfaces 
for the most part are unsatisfactory as being very 
dirty in bad weather, and are the cause of much un- 
necessary dust and dirt being conveyed into the 
school. Wherever the climatic conditions will allow 
of it, provision may with advantage be made for trees 
and shrubs and a certain amount of flower border. 
While upon this part of the subject it should be noted 
that the caretaker's house should be made to harmonize 
with the school building, and a plot of ground for 
gardening purposes should, wherever practicable, be 
attached to it. 

In the planning of the school the aesthetic side 
should not be forgotten. The keynote should be 
everywhere simplicity ; perfect beauty and perfect 
hygiene are quite compatible. The school architect 
should be, of course, as should all architects, an artist : 
this does not mean that the construction of the school 
will cost more; a beautiful school simply built may 
cost less than an ugly and ornate one. The internal 
decoration should receive careful thought. The 
selection of wood is important. Pitch pine is frequently 
used ; it is hard and durable. Varnished pitch pine, 
however, is not a wood which commends itself to 
many ; the tone is raw and cold. Oak is, of course, 
excellent, but is much more expensive than pitch pine. 



366 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

A cheaper and yet satisfactory wood is the best 
yellow deal, and this lends itself well to staining and 
flat varnishing ; a beautiful warm brown can be 
obtained, and the colour improves with wear. The 
walls should be tinted, preferably a soft grey-green 
in the more sunny classrooms, and a cream tint may 
be used in the less sunny rooms, in the cloakrooms 
and passages. There is no need to be too bound by 
theory to any one shade, but subdued colours are 
indicated throughout the building, and yellow and red 
tints should be avoided in all classrooms naturally 
bright. Protection from the sun must be provided in 
all rooms into which the sun shines during school hours, 
and care must be bestowed upon the question of the 
material and the colour of the blind. There is much 
difference of opinion, and much room for it, in con- 
nection with what is most suitable for the purpose. 
Probably nothing will really be found more satisfactory 
than thin curtains of a green colour hung in the 
simplest manner possible, capable of being easily 
drawn and easily taken down for shaking and wash- 
ing; they are more satisfactory than blinds, and give 
a quality to the room quite lacking when blinds are 
used. The most satisfactory arrangement of all, how- 
ever, is to have outside blinds, and if only the money 
is forthcoming and the best possible obtained, they 
will well repay the outlay. 



APPENDIX I 

Acts of Parliament dealing with Education* 

Elementary Education Act, 1870. 

Elementary Education Act, 1873. 

Elementary Education Act, 1876. 

Elementary Education Act, 1880. 

Welsh Intermediate Education Act, 1889. 

Education Code (1890) Act, 1890. 

Local Taxation (Customs and Excise) Act, 1890. 

Elementary Education Act, 1891. 

Elementary Education (Blind and Deaf Children) Act, 1893. 

Elementary Education (School Attendance) Act, 1893. 

Voluntary Schools Act, 1897. 

School Board Conference Act, 1897. 

Elementary School Teachers (Superannuation) Act, 1898. 

Elementary Education (School Attendance) Act (1893) 

Amendment Act, 1899. 
Elementary Education (Defective and Epileptic Children) Act, 

1899. 
Elementary Education Amendment Act, 1903. Amending the 

Elementary Education (Defective and Epileptic Children) 

Act, 1899. 

* These and all the official documents referred to in the Appendices may 
be obtained from Wyman & Sons, Ltd., Fetter Lane, London, E.C., and 
32, Abingdon Street, Westminster, London, S.W. ; or Oliver & Boyd, 
Tweeddale Court, Edinburgh; or, E. Ponsonby, 116, Grafton Street, 
Dublin. 

367 



368 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

Board of Education Act, 1899. 

Elementary Education Act, 1900. 

Education Act, 1902. 

Education (London) Act, 1903. 

Employment of Children Act, 1903. 

Education (Provision of Working Balances) Act, 1903. 

Education (Local Authority Default) Act, 1904. 

Education (Provision of Meals) Act, 1906. 

Education (Administrative Provisions) Act, 1907. 

Children Act, 1908. 

Local Education Authorities (Medical Treatment) Act, 1909. 

Education (Administrative Provisions) Act, 1909. 

Education (Choice of Employment) Act, 19 10. 

Education (Administrative Provisions) Act, 191 1. 

Mental Deficiency Act, 19 13. 

Education (Provision of Meals) Act, 19 14. 

Education (Defective and Epileptic Children) Act, 19 14. 



APPENDIX II 



Regulations, Circulars, Reports, etc., issued by the 
Board of Education, bearing on Hygiene and 
Education 

Annual Reports of the Chief Medical Officer of the Board of 
Education : — 

1908 ...... [Cd. 4986.] 



1909 
1910 
1911 
1912 

1913 
1914 



[Cd. 5426.] 
[Cd. 5925.] 
[Cd. 6530.] 
[Cd. 7184.] 
[Cd. 7730.] 
[Cd. 8055.] 



Code of Regulations for Public Elementary Schools, 191 2. 

[Cd. 6262.] 
Minutes of the Board of Education modifying the above 
Regulations : — 

(i) 4th July 19 1 3 . . . [Cd. 6891.] 
(ii) 24th June 1914 . . . [Cd. 7484.] 
(iii) 25th November 1914 . . [Cd. 7700.] 
Memorandum on Closure of and Exclusion from School. 
The Building Regulations. [Cd. 7516.] 
Regulations applicable to Schools for Blind, Deaf, Defective, 
and Epileptic Children, 1909. [Cd. 4780.] 

Education modifying the above 



of 



Minutes of the Board 
Regulations : — 

(i) 27th June 1 9 10 
(ii) 17th July 1 914 
24 



[Cd. 5232.] 

[Cd. 7532.] 



370 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

Regulations under which Grants in respect of the Medical 
Inspection and Medical Treatment of Children attending 
Public Elementary Schools, and the Medical Treatment 
and Care of Children attending certain Special Schools 
in England and Wales, will be made by the Board of 
Education during the year ending 31st March 1915. 
[Cd. 7314.] 

Memorandum on Medical Inspection of Children in Public 
Elementary Schools, under Section 13 of the Education 
(Administrative Provisions) Act, 1907. (Circular 576.) 

Circular on Details of Medical Inspection, with Specimen 
Schedule for Report on Child. (Circular 582.) 

Circular on Medical Inspection, including functions of School 
Medical Officer, Local Education Authority's Report, etc. 
(Circular 596.) {Supplementary to Circulars 576 and 

582.) 

Memorandum on the Education (Administrative Provisions) 
Act, 1907, except Sections 13 and 16. (Circular 577.) 

Grants for Medical Inspection and Treatment, Salaries and 
Reports of School Medical Officers, " Leavers," and the 
Inspection of an intermediate age group from ist April 
19 1 5, (Circular 823.) 

Circular on Regulations and Forms re Grants for Provision of 
Meals. (Circular 847.) 

Circular to Local Education Authorities on the Education 
(Provision of Meals) Act, 1906. (Circular 552.) 

Regulations under which Grants in respect of the Provision 
of Meals for Children attending Public Elementary 
Schools in England and Wales will be made by the 
Board of Education during the year ending on the 31st 
March 19 15, if provision is made by Parliament for the 
purpose. [Cd. 7461.] 

Report on the working of the Education (Provision of Meals) 
Act, 1906. 

1908-1909 .... [Cd. 5131.] 
1909-1910 .... [Cd. 5724.] 



APPENDIX II 371 

Memorandum on methods of Providing Meals for Children 
and on Dietaries suitable for the present circumstances. 
(Circular 856.) 

Memorandum on the Teaching of Infant Care and Manage- 
ment in Public Elementary Schools. 

Regulations under which Grants to Schools for Mothers in 
England and Wales will be made by the Board of 
Education during the year ending on 31st March 19 15. 
[Cd. 7534.] 

Memorandum re Regulations for Grants to Schools for 
Mothers. (Circular 852.) 

Regulations under which Grants to Day Nurseries in England 
and Wales will be made by the Board of Education 
during the year ending on 31st March 191 5. [Cd. 7702.] 

Memorandum in regard to the Regulations for the payment of 
Grants to Day Nurseries. (Circular 879.) 

Syllabus of Physical Exercises for use in Public Elementary 
Schools. 

Syllabus of Lessons on " Temperance " for children attending 
Public Elementary Schools. [Cd. 4746.] 

Outline Scheme for Teaching Hygiene and Temperance to the 

Scholars attending Public Elementary Schools. 
Teaching of Hygiene and Physical Training in Training 

Colleges. (Circular 763.) 
Memorandum on Physical Training in Secondary Schools. 

(Circular 779.) 
The Organization of Physical Training in Sweden, with a note 

on the system adopted in Denmark. (Educational 

i Pamphlets, No. 11.) 
Special Reports. Vol. 21. [Cd. 3866.] School Excursions 
and Vacation Schools. 
The Playground Movement in America and its relation to 
Public Education. 
Mental Deficiency (Notification of Children) Regulations, 



372 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

Circular on Regulations and Model Arrangements, and ex- 
plains duties of Local Education Authorities under the 
Mental Deficiency Act, 1913. (Circular 829.) 

Circular on revised Model Arrangements under the Mental 
Deficiency Act, 19 13. (Circular 855.) 

Report of the Consultative Committee upon the School 
Attendance of Children below the age of five. [Cd. 
4259-] 

Reports on Children under five years of age in Public 
Elementary Schools by Women Inspectors of the Board 
of Education. [Cd. 2726.] 

Special Reports. Vol. 22. [Cd. 4477.] Provision made for 
children under compulsory school age in Belgium, France, 
Germany, and Switzerland. 

Circular to Local Education Authorities relating to the revision 
of the Regulations affecting the staffing of Public 
Elementary Schools, and the size of Classes. (Circular 
709.) 

Circular on risk of fire in Public Elementary Schools, and 
external doors. (Circular 587 for England; or Wales, 
Circular 10.) 

Report of the Consultative Committee on Attendance, com- 
pulsory or otherwise, at Continuation Schools. [Cd. 

47S7-] 

Special Report on the Teaching of Cookery to Public Ele- 
mentary School Children. 

Suggestions on Rural Education, by T. S. Dymond, H.M.I., 
together with Specimen Courses of Nature Study, Garden- 
ing, and Rural Economy. 

Special Report on School Gardens in Germany. No. 6 in 
Vol. 9. 

School Doctors in Germany, by W. H. Dawson. (Educational 
Pamphlets, No. 4.) 



APPENDIX III 

Circular (582) of the Board of Education to Local 
Education Authorities — Schedule of Medical 
Inspection 

Education {Administrative Provisions) Act^ 1907 
Section 13 

Sir, 

I. The accompanying Schedule has been drawn up 
in response to requests which the Board of Education have 
received for further and more definite guidance as regards the 
details of the work of medical inspection than was given in the 
Memorandum (Circular 576) which was issued by the Board 
on 22nd November, 1907. The Board have, indeed, been 
pressed by many Local Education Authorities to issue a 
complete set of Forms for use in carrying out the work directly 
or incidentally involved in the performance of these new duties. 
Any Forms which experience of the working of the Act may 
show to be necessary or desirable will be issued in due course, 
but for the present the Board think it expedient to leave con- 
siderable latitude, subject to the considerations hereinafter set 
out, in regard to the particular Forms or Schedules to be used 
in different cases or circumstances. 

2. The chief difficulties to be considered are administrative 
rather than educational or scientific. There is comparatively 
little dispute as to the end in view, or as to the means which, 
from the technical standpoint of medical science and practice, 
should be adopted for its complete attainment. 

But the existing resources of Local Education Authorities 
are (for practical purposes, at all events) not unlimited, the 
feelings and prejudices of parents have to be considered, and 

373 



374 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

a new element has to be introduced into school life and organi- 
zation with the least possible disturbance and inconvenience. 
Moreover, in this case two departments of local public adminis- 
tration are brought for the first time into organic connection 
— those of pubHc health and of public education. 

3. The Board are fully aware of these difficulties, and in 
preparing their Memorandum and Regulations it was necessary 
for them to consider what system would best reconcile the 
theoretical and practical considerations, and overcome the 
divergence between the ultimate end and the end immediately 
attainable, or between the methods which are scientifically 
desirable and those which can be applied in existing circum- 
stances at the initiation of the work under the Act. 

4. In the accompanying Schedule the Board indicate the 
particulars, attention to which they regard as constituting the 
mifiimum of efficient medical inspection, and they consider 
that at least these particulars should be included in any other 
Schedule which the Local Education Authority may authorise 
for use in their Schools. It deliberately excludes many points 
of anthropometric or statistical interest which are worthy of 
attention, and which it is hoped may receive attention in suit- 
able districts. Nor does it profess to lay down the lines of a 
clinical study or of a scientifically complete medical examina- 
tion. It is intended to indicate the methods which, in the 
Board's opinion, should be followed and the particulars which 
should be attended to for the purpose of determining the fitness 
of the individual child for school life, to guide the Authority in 
adapting education to the peculiarities or abnormalities of the 
child, and to prepare the way for measures for the amelioration 
of defects in the child or its environment. 

A more elaborate and complete form could readily be 
devised, but the Board's knowledge of the circumstances in 
which the work is to be done leads them to believe that greater 
elaboration would in the majority of cases defeat its own end. 

5. If this Schedule is properly used, few cases of serious 
physical weakness or defect will escape detection, Where the 
ordinary inspection shows the need of further and more search- 
ing medical examination a supplementary blank form should 



APPENDIX III 375 

be used in which particular defects or diseases should be fully 
recorded. It may facilitate inspection if the Schedule is printed 
on cards (8" by 5" or 10" by 6"). The Notes are included in 
the attached form for the convenience of the School Medical 
Officer, and should not be reprinted on the cards. Of course 
it is not necessary that negative findings on all the points 
mentioned in the Notes should be recorded. 

It will be noticed that a space is reserved in the Schedule 
for " General Observations " ; this may conveniently be used 
to record a general summary of the condition of the child, and 
any information which may be available as to the home environ- 
ment, or other conditions affecting its health. 

It is considered that the inspection of each child should 
not occupy on the average more than a few minutes, and that 
the child need only, as a rule, have its clothes loosened or be 
partially undressed. Time may be saved in the actual inspec- 
tion by the Medical Officer if the entries in some of the spaces 
are filled in by the school authorities before his visit. The 
four columns in the Schedule are designed for the four inspec- 
tions required during school life. 

With regard to items 17 to 24 of the Schedule, while it is 
necessary that all indications of diseased or unsound conditions 
should be thoroughly investigated, needless medical examina- 
tion of healthy children should, for obvious reasons, be avoided. 

6. Where children are found to belong to that class of 
" defectives " for whose education special provision is or ought 
to be made under the Statutes relating to such children, such 
cases should be made the subject of a special report to the 
Local Education Authority. 

7. All entries of the results of inspection in each individual 
case must be regarded as confidential. 

I have the honour to be. 
Sir, 
Your obedient Servant, 

Robert L. Morant. 
To 

The Local Education Authority, 



SCHEDULE OF MEDICAL INSPECTION. 



I. — Name 

Address- 



Date of Birth ». 
School 



II.— Personal History : 

{a) Previous Illnesses of Child (before admission). 



Measles. 


Whooping Chicken-pox. 
Cough. 

i 


Scarlet Fever. 


Diphtheria. 


Other 
Ilhiesses.* 



{d) Family Medical History (if exceptional).' 



1. Date of Inspec- 

tion 

2. Standard and 

Regularity of 
Attendance * . 

3 . Age of child * . 

4. Clothing and 

footgear • 
ini.— Genera/ Cm- 
ditions.'] 

5. Height' . 

6. Weight* . 

7. Nutrition " 

8. Cleanliness 

condition 
skin " . 

Head . 

Body . 

IIN.— Special 
ditions. 1 

9. Teeth " . 
10. Nose and throat'* 

Tonsils . 
Adenoids 
Submax. and 
cervical glands 
External eye 

disease". 
Vision ^^ . 

R. 
L. 



and 
of 



Con- 



II 



12. 



II. 



III. 



IV. 



13. Ear disease" . 

14. Hearing" 

15. Speech" . 

16. Mental condi- 

tion " . 

[V. — Disease or De- 
formity, ^ " 

17. Heart and circu- 

lation " 

18. Lungs" . 

1 9.ivNervous system" 

20. Tuberculosis *' . 

21. Rickets". 

22. Deformities, 

Spinal Disease, 
&c." . 

23. Infectious or 

contagious dis- 
ease '^'^ 

24. Other disease or 

defect " . 



Medical Officer's 
initials 



II. 



III. 



IV. 



General observations. 



Directions to Parent or Teacher. 



376 



APPENDIX III 377 

* Date of birth to be stated exactly, date of month and year. 

» "Other illnesses" should include any other serious disorder which 
must be taken into account as affecting, directly or indirectly, the health of 
the child in after-life, e.g.y rheumatism, tuberculosis, congenital syphilis, 
small-pox, enteric fever, meningitis, fits, mumps, etc. The effects of these 
if still traceable, should be recorded. 

' State if any cases of, or deaths from, phthisis, etc. , in family. 

* Note backwardness. 

^ Age to be stated in years and months, thus, 5^1^. 

^ Insufficiency, need of repair, and uncleanliness should be recorded 
(good, average, bad). 

' Without boots, standing erect with feet together, and the weight 
thrown on heels and not on toes or outside of feet. 

^ Without boots, otherwise ordinary indoor clothes. 

Height and weight may be recorded in English measures if preferred. 
In annual report, however, the final averages should be 
recorded in both English and metric measures. 

' General nutrition as distinct from muscular development or physique 
as such. State whether good, normal, below normal, or bad. Under- 
nourishment is the point to determine. Appearance of skin and hair, 
expression, and redness or pallor of mucous membrane are among the 
indications. 

!• Cleanliness may be stated generally as clean, somewhat dirty, dirty. 
It must be judged for head and body separately. The skin of the body 
should be examined for cleanliness, vermin, etc. ; and the hair for scurf, 
nits, vermin, or sores. At the same time ringworm and other skin diseases 
should be looked for. 

" General condition and cleanliness of temporary and permanent teeth, 
and amount of decay. Exceptional features, such as Hutchinsonian teeth, 
should be noted. Oral sepsis. 

*2 The presence or absence of obstruction in the naso-pharynx is the 
chief point to note. Observation should include mouth-breathing ; inflam- 
mation, enlargement, or suppuration of tonsils ; probable or obvious pre- 
sence of adenoids, polypi ; specific or other nasal discharge, catarrh, 
malformation (palate), etc. 

" Including blepharitis, conjunctivitis, diseases of cornea and lens, 
muscular defects (squints, nystagmus, twitchings), etc. 

" To be tested by Snellen's Test Types at 20 feet distance (= 6 metres). 

Result to be recorded in the usual way, e.g. normal V. = ^. Examination 

of each eye (R. and L.) should, as a rule, be undertaken separately. If the 

V. be worse than -, or if there be signs of eye strain or headache, fuller 

examination should be made subsequently. Omit vision testing of children 
under d years of age. 

'^ Including suppuration, obstruction, etc. 

'^ If hearing be abnormal or such as interferes with class work, sub- 
sequent examination of each ear should be undertaken separately. Apply 
tests only in genei-alway in case of children under d years of age. 

*' Including defects of articulation, lisping, stammering, etc. 



I 



378 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

^^ Including attention, response, signs of overstrain, etc. 

The general intelligence may be recorded under the following 
heads : — (a) Bright, fair, dull, backward ; (d) mentally defec- 
tive ; {c) imbecile. Omii testing mental capacity of children 
under d years of age, 

^^ Under the following headings should be inserted particulars of 
diseased conditions actually present or signs of incipient disease. The 
extent of this part of the inspection will largely depend upon the findings 
under previous headings. 

^ Include heart sounds, position of apex beat, anaemia, etc., in case 
of anything abnormal or requiring modification of school conditions or 
exercises. 

2^ Including physical and clinical signs and symptoms. 

^ Including chorea, epilepsy, paralysis, and nervous strains and dis- 
orders. 

^ Glandular, osseous, pulmonary, or other forms. 

^ State particular form, especially in younger children. 

^ Including defects and deformities of head, trunk, limbs. Spinal 
curvature, bone disease, deformed chest, shortened limbs, etc. 

^ Including any present infectious, parasitical, or contagious disease, or 
any sequelae existing. At each inspection the occurrence of any such 
diseases since last inspection should be noted. 

^ Any weakness, defect, or disease not included above {e.g. ruptures), 
specially unfitting child for ordinary school life or physical drill, or 
requiring either exemption from special branches of instruction or 
particular supervision. 



APPENDIX IV 

Extracts from Circular (596) of the Board of Education 
TO Local Education Authorities under Part III. of 
the Education Act, 1902, on Certain Questions 
arising under Section Thirteen of the Education 
(Administrative Provisions) Act, 1907, and the Code 
OF Regulations for Public Elementary Schools, 1908 

Sir, 

1. . • • 

A. — School Medical Officer 

2. It will be observed that the "School Medical Officer" 
of the Local Education Authority is for the first time recognized 
in the Code of 1908 as an officer having specific functions in 
the system of Public Elementary Education. This Officer is 
defined in Article 44 (g) as "a medical officer named by the 
Local Education Authority, and recognized as such by the 
Board." The functions specifically assigned to him (or her) 
by the Code are — 

(i) Those of reporting on the working and effect of 
any arrangements made under Article 44 {g) for 
educating children at "an open-air school, school 
camp, or other place selected with a view to 
the improvement of the health and physical 
condition of the children." 
(ii) The power of advising or approving the closure of 

a school under Article 45 (b). 
(iii) The power of authorizing the exclusion of certain 
children from a school on specified grounds under 
Article 53 {b), which grounds will be regarded as 
" reasonable grounds " under Article 53 (a), 
379 



k 



38o THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

3. One of the objects which the Board had in view in 
introducing these provisions into the Code was to secure that 
the responsibility for dealing with certain medical questions 
connected with Public Elementary Schools should, as far as 
possible, be placed in the hands of a single officer responsible 
to the County Council, County Borough Council, Borough 
Council, or Urban District Council, who are the Local Educa- 
tion Authority for the area in which a school is situated. 
The expression "School Medical Officer" is therefore sub- 
stituted for the vague expression " medical authority," which 
was used in Article 45 {b) of the Code of 1907. The Board, 
however, also had in view the desirability of assisting Local 
Education Authorities to concentrate and organize, in the 
department of the School Medical Officer, all matters of 
school hygiene, including medical inspection under the Act 
of 1907, and they assume that the School Medical Officer 
will, in addition to performing the specific functions assigned 
to him by the Code, also be made responsible by the Local 
Education Authority for supervising and controlling the 
general work of medical inspection. 

D. — Arrangements for Attending to the Health and Physical ., 
Condition of School Children 

7. . . . 

(a) Lftprovement of the School Arrangements. — The School 
Medical Officer will doubtless furnish the Local Education 
Authority with valuable advice as to improvements which can 
be made in the use of old school premises and in the design 
of new school premises for improving the health of the 
children educated in them. For instance, he will note and 
report to the Authority cases in which the ventilation of 
schools is defective, either as regards the means provided or 
as regards the use and maintenance of those means, and, if 
necessary, he will supply them with the results of scientific 
tests. He will, of course, call attention to the physical effects 
of bad ventilation, such as the prevalence of headaches, 
lassitude, and debility among the scholars, when they come 



APPENDIX IV 381 

under his notice. He will observe and report instances of 
bad positions in sitting and unsuitable design of desks or 
benches. As regards cases of defective eyesight, he will 
indicate such measures as can be taken to remedy or mitigate 
the defects by altering the position of the children in the 
class, or improving the lighting of the school in amount or 
direction, and he will call attention to the strain imposed on 
eyesight by the use of too small type in text books, the 
teaching of very fine sewing, etc. He will also be able to 
estimate the effectiveness of lessons on the subject of personal 
hygiene given in the school, and may be able to suggest 
improvements in the curriculum or in the methods of giving 
such lessons and bringing their importance home to the 
children. He may also be able to institute comparisons 
between school and school in respect of the effect of physical 
exercises, and, in the case of children of weakly physique, he 
may be able to indicate the kind and amount of physical 
exercises which are suitable for them. He will observe the 
effect of holding classes in the open air, and call attention to 
cases in which the adoption of this arrangement is desirable. 
He will also be able to suggest to what extent and in respect 
of what children advantage should be taken of the facilities 
afforded by Article 44 (g) of the Code of 1908 for improving 
the health and physical condition of the children, by means of 
open-air schools, school camps, etc., and, in cases where 
facilities exist for baths and swimming, he will sometimes find 
occasion to recommend a more extensive use of such facilities. 
And the beneficial influence of the School Medical Officer will 
not be exhausted even when he has done everything included 
in this formidable catalogue. The mere fact that the services 
of a specially skilled officer and staff are devoted by the Local 
Education Authority to the oversight of all matters affecting 
the health of the children in their Public Elementary Schools 
gives to the whole question of school hygiene a dignity and 
importance which cannot but produce a considerable effect on 
the minds of teachers, parents, and children alike. From this 
point of view the School Medical Officer should be not merely 
a functionary charged with specific duties, but a pervading 



382 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

influence making, in the long run, for better hygienic conditions 
in the school and in the home. 

(b) Exercise of Powers under Special Acts relating to School 
CMdren.— ^Medical inspection will probably indicate the 
necessity of having recourse to the Blind and Deaf Children 
Act, 1893, and the Defective and Epileptic Children Act, 1899, 
in the case of a considerable number of children who are at 
present educated in ordinary Public Elementary Schools. It 
will emphasize the desirability of taking advantage of the wide 
scope of the last-mentioned Act by establishing or contributing 
to the establishment of special schools or classes for physically, 
as distinguished from mentally, defective children. It will also 
furnish the Local Education Authority with valuable informa- 
tion as to the necessity of exercising their powers under the 
Education (Provision of Meals) Act, 1906, and as to the best 
methods and effects of such exercise. It is extremely desirable 
that the School Medical Officer should be closely associated 
with this last-mentioned work wherever it is undertaken, 
though it is of hardly less importance that the methods 
adopted should be such as will secure the greatest educational 
effect in respect of the manners and conduct of the children 
concerned as well as the best physical results. 

(c) Co-operation with the Sanitary Authority, — Although 
the Act of 1907 has to some extent the effect of conferring on 
a Local Education Authority powers concurrent with those 
which it exercises as Sanitary Authority (or which in the case 
of a county are exercised by the authorities of the local 
sanitary areas in the county), it is extremely important that full 
use should be made of the powers exercisable in the latter 
capacity, and it is hoped that the special powers of medical 
inspection conferred on the Education Authority may have the 
result of greatly extending the influence and scope of the work 
hitherto performed solely by the Sanitary Authority. In such 
matters as the cleansing of persons, disinfection of school 
premises and homes, the provision and use of public baths, the 
enforcement of sanitary conditions in the home, or the detec- 
tion or diagnosis of a prevalent disease in cases of emergency, 
it is expected that the Education Authority will take every 



APPENDIX IV 383 

opportunity of giving information to the Sanitary Authority and 
of invoking its assistance, whether under the general law, such 
as the Public Health Acts (including the Public Health Acts 
Amendment Act, 1907), or under special Acts, where applic- 
able, such as the London County Council (General Powers) 
Act, 1907, or the Liverpool Corporation (General Powers) Act, 
1908. It is, for instance, obvious, as regards infectious 
diseases, that a School Medical Officer who is occupied in 
carrying out a programme of systematic medical inspection in 
the schools of the area will often be unable to dislocate his 
programme in order to deal personally with an outbreak of 
infectious disease in a particular school. He must so organize 
his machinery that both he and the Sanitary Authority shall 
receive immediate information of any such occurrence (whether 
the disease is "notifiable" or not) by duplicate notices or 
otherwise, so that the matter may be dealt with effectively and 
without confusion at the earliest possible moment. Definite 
regulations should be made for this purpose.* Where the 
School Medical Officer is himself the Medical Officer of Health 
of a Sanitary Area no difficulty will arise, but where this is not 
the case it must be remembered that the ultimate responsibility 
for preventing the spread of infectious disease must remain 
with the Sanitary Authority, which is at present the sole 
repository of compulsory powers for closure of Public Element- 
ary Schools of all kinds, or for exclusion of individual children 
from them. 

(d) Advice or Direction to Parents. — Where medical inspec- 
tion reveals any defect or malady in a particular child, the first 
step will naturally be to notify the parents, and, unless the ail- 
ment is a minor one which can be removed by home treatment 
or treatment (under the direction of the School Medical Officer) 
by the School Nurse, to urge upon the parent the desirability 

* In this connection attention is called to the Memorandum issued in 
January, 1908, by the Local Government Board "on the Circumstances 
under which the Closing of Public Elementary Schools or the Exclusion 
therefrom of particular Children may be required in order to prevent the 
spread of Disease." The subsequent issue of the Code has rendered that 
Memorandum inapplicable in certain details, but its main principles remain 
unaffected, and close co-operation between the Education and Sanitary 
Authorities will obviate any risk of administrative confusion or conflict. 



384 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

of obtaining treatment by an ordinary medical practitioner. In 
extreme cases of insanitary homes or conditions, the attention 
of the Sanitary Authority will, of course, be called to the 
matter. 

(e) The School Nurse. — A School Nurse is capable of per- 
forming very useful and important functions, both in assisting 
in the work of medical inspection, and (under medical instruc- 
tions) in applying, or showing the parents how to apply, remedies 
for minor ailments. Such matters as the antiseptic treatment 
of discharging ears, the treatment of sores and minor skin 
diseases, or minor diseases of the eye, such as blepharitis and 
conjunctivitis, the treatment of slight injuries resulting from 
accident, will fall within the scope of the work of the School 
Nurse. So far as the School Nurse can be regarded as assist- 
ing in the work of medical inspection, the sanction of the 
Board to her employment is not required. So far, however, as 
she is engaged in treating the minor ailments, or in visiting the 
children's homes for purposes of advice, her employment would 
require sanction as an *' arrangement " for attending to the 
health and physical condition of the children. The Board 
would usually have no difficulty in sanctioning any well-con- 
sidered scheme for this purpose. 

(f) Provision of Spectacles^ etc, — In cases where medical 
inspection shows that the provision of spectacles is necessary 
for the treatment of defective eyesight, the Board will be pre- 
pared to consider proposals from a Local Education Authority 
to provide suitable and inexpensive spectacles free of charge. 
They will, however, only sanction such an "arrangement 
they are satisfied that every endeavour will first be made t( 
obtain the provision of the spectacles by the child's parents or] 
by any voluntary associations which exist for the purpose./ 
The Board will, of course, require that due precautions 
should be taken to secure accurate examination and appropriate^ 
prescription by qualified medical men of suitable experience. 

(g) Contributions to Hospitals^ Infirmaries, Dispensaries X 
etc. — Special attention should be paid to the powers referred toj 
in the proviso to section 13 (i) of the Act, and the Board] 
consider that, before the direct treatment of ailments is under- 



APPENDIX IV 385 

taken by the Local Education Authority, whether by means of 
a School Clinic or by themselves supplying and paying for 
medical treatment, full advantage should be taken of the 
benefits of such institutions. The Board will be prepared to 
entertain proposals for contributing to the funds of hospitals, 
dispensaries, and nursing associations, on terms of adequate 
advantage. Such contributions are specially desirable in the 
case of Eye Hospitals and Cottage Hospitals which are prepared 
to undertake minor surgical operations. It is permissible to 
include among the conditions of contribution a provision 
allocating a reasonable remuneration to the medical men work- 
ing for such institutions. Among the associations to which 
contributions might properly be made are " children's care 
associations," who, by means of local sub-committees or local 
representatives, arrange for the individual treatment of poor 
school children by voluntary agencies or otherwise. 

(h) School Clinics. — School Clinics may serve two purposes. 
They may be used for further and more scientific examination 
of cases in which medical inspection has indicated the existence 
of defects in a child which cannot conveniently be investigated 
on the premises of an ordinary Public Elementary School. 
For instance, the School Medical Officer may discover at his 
first inspection that a child is affected in respect of one or more 
of the particulars numbered 17 to 24 on the Schedule accom- 
panying Circular 582, and it may be necessary for him to 
ascertain by further examination whether the child is fit to 
continue in attendance at a PubUc Elementary School, or 
whether any special precautions should be taken in the case of 
such a child if he continues to attend, or whether special 
provision should be made for his education in some other 
manner. Similarly, in the case of ocular defects, the detailed 
examination of the child may often be more expeditiously and 
thoroughly carried out at a School Clinic, where special ap- 
pliances are available. So far as a School Clinic is used for 
such purposes, its establishment appears to fall within the scope 
of provision for medical inspection, but such a clinic should 
not be used merely for the purpose of enabling the ordinary 
inspection of school children to be carried out elsewhere than 
25 



386 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

at the schools which they attend, nor, in ordinary circumstances, 
will the Board be prepared to approve, for the purposes of 
Article 44 {h) of the Code, attendance at a School Clinic as an 
inspection centre. 

The establishment of School Clinics for purposes of ireai- 
ment of defects revealed by inspection gives rise, on the other 
hand, to questions of considerable difficulty, and, before sanc- 
tioning the establishment of a School Clinic as an "arrange- 
ment" under section 13 (i) {b) of the Act, the Board will 
require to be furnished with detailed information as to the 
methods and scope of the work which it is proposed to do. 
They will, in particular, require to be informed — 

(i) what precautions the Local Education Authority 
will take to secure that only those children shall 
be treated in a School Clinic for whose treatment 
adequate provision cannot otherwise be made, 
whether by the parents or by voluntary associa- 
tions or institutions, such as hospitals, or through 
the agency of the Poor Law ; 
(ii) what precise diseases and defects will be treated ; 
(iii) by whom and on what terms and conditions the 
treatment will be carried out and what will be its 
extent ; 

(iv) what is the estimated cost of the clinic in respect 
of buildings and equipment, maintenance and 
administration, and treatment, and how it is pro- 
posed to meet this cost, out of the rates or 
otherwise. 

I am, Sir, 
Your obedient Servant, 

Robert L. Morant. 
iph Angus tf 1908. 



APPENDIX V 

Prefatory Memorandum to the Syllabus of Physical 
Exercises issued by the Board of Education for 
Public Elementary Schools, 1909 

1. In issuing a new and revised edition of their Syllabus 
of Physical Exercises, the Board of Education wish to em- 
phasize their sense of the great importance of this branch of 
public education. The Board have already, in their "Sugges- 
tions for the Consideration of Teachers," published in 1905, 
drawn attention to the effect of Physical Exercises and to the 
close connection which exists between it and the rest of the 
process of education. 

2. The past three years have been marked by the statutory 
recognition of the interest of the State in securing the physical 
well-being of the children in Public Elementary Schools. The 
Education (Provision of Meals) Act, 1906, seeks to ensure as 
far as possible that no child shall be prevented by want of 
food from profiting by the education given in those schools. 
Section 13 of the Education (Administrative Provisions) Act, 
1907, empowers Local Education Authorities to provide for 
children attending Public Elementary Schools play centres and 
other means of recreation, requires them to provide for the 
medical inspection of the children, and authorizes them to 
make such arrangements as may be sanctioned by the Board 
for attention to the children's health and general physical con- 
dition. These enactments were not intended merely to provide 
for the relief of immediate distress. By entrusting to Education 
Authorities the performance and exercise of the duties and 
powers referred to, Parliament declared its conviction that the 
true aim of education is something more than the mere training 
of the intelligence, and that attention to the health of the 
children is a matter which directly concerns those whose duty 

387 



388 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

it is to provide for their education. It is now generally 
recognized that the physical health of the children lies at the 
root of education properly conceived. The object of every 
system of education worthy of that name will be the concurrent 
development of a sound character, an active intelligence, and 
a healthy physique. These qualities are to a great degree 
mutually dependent. It is undeniable that healthy physical 
conditions assist the development of the moral and mental 
faculties, and that adverse physical conditions may vitiate the 
otherwise well-directed efforts of the teacher. Physical educa- 
tion is thus essential to a sound intellectual training, and may 
be said to be fundamental in its effects on the individual. 

3. Proper nourishment, effective medical inspection, and 
hygienic surroundings will not, however, of themselves produce 
a sound physique. A further requirement is Physical Exercise. 
This may, no doubt, be promoted, especially in the case of 
country children, by a variety of means, but none of these is such 
that special Physical Exercises should be entirely dispensed with, 
and, in the case of children whose lives are spent in towns, these 
Exercises are indispensable both for the development of the 
body and for the correction of the defects or evil habits induced 
by an unhealthy physical environment. In the case of all 
school children, therefore. Physical Exercises should be em- 
ployed, but their use should always be carefully adapted to the 
needs and capacities of the children ; there should, in short, 
be a direct relation between the three factors of nutrition, 
general health, and physical training. 

4. Having in view the results to be secured, the Board 
have for several years been giving their earnest attention to 
this subject. They have been deeply impressed both with the 
importance of the subject and with the serious inadequacy of 
the existing facilities for its proper treatment. Some progress 
has, indeed, been made, but much remains to be done, and 
the Board desire now to see more decided and general pro- 
gress, guided not only by the issue of an official Syllabus and 
appropriate inspection, but by a more adequate equipment of 
the teaching staff in both the Training Colleges and the Public 
Elementary Schools. 



APPENDIX V 389 

5. The Board's Official Syllabus was first issued in the year 
1904 in consequence of the Report of an Interdepartmental 
Committee appointed by the Board jointly with the Scotch 
Education Department. It was reprinted with slight altera- 
tions in 1905, and is now re-issued with further amendments 
and extensive revisions, which are based upon experience and 
have received the careful consideration of those qualified to 
speak with authority on the subject. Speaking generally, the 
new Syllabus, like its predecessor, is based on the Swedish 
system of educational gymnastics which has been adopted in 
several European countries, and is now the basis of physical 
training in the Army and Navy in this country. 

6. The Exercises in this Syllabus have been selected, and 
arranged in appropriate progression, with a view to the pro- 
motion of the harmonious development of all parts of the body. 
They have been chosen as suitable for children of school age, 
and may be effectively carried out without the use of special 
apparatus. Exercises likely to prove injurious to children of 
weak physique have been excluded, and some of the ordinary 
Swedish Exercises, or combinations of movements, though well 
designed for average use, have been omitted or modified in 
order to avoid risk of straining children below the average, 
either in vigour or physical capacity. Such modifications 
account for the fact that some of the Exercises in the Syllabus 
have not in practice been pressed to their ultimate, or even to 
their usual, extent, and will thus be found to differ somewhat 
from those included in many of the existing Manuals. 

7. Several other matters in regard to the Syllabus call for 
mention. The Board desire that all lessons in physical 
exercises in Public Elementary Schools should be thoroughly 
enjoyed by the children. Indeed, freedom of movement and a 
certain degree of exhilaration are essentials of all true physical 
education. Hence, it has been thought well not only to 
modify some of the usual Swedish combinations in order to 
make the work less exacting, but to introduce games and 
dancing steps into many of the lessons. If appropriately 
taught, many of the free movements accompanying games and 
dancing steps cannot but have good results, as indeed 



390 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

experience has shown where such exercises have been 
introduced. 

8. Again, care has been taken to avoid as far as practicable 
the use of technical terms and descriptions. On this subject it 
is well known that there is at present considerable divergence 
between the views of experts. The Board must not be taken 
to pronounce an opinion upon the respective merits of these 
views. For the purposes of this Syllabus, the predominant 
consideration as regards terminology must be that the exercises, 
movements, and commands should be described or expressed 
in quite simple English words, even though this may lead to 
the use of more words than are used when a technical term is 
adopted. For similar reasons, in deciding points of detail in 
regard to certain positions or movements, the Board have 
endeavoured to avoid the risk of laying such emphasis on 
questions of minor importance as might obscure or exclude the 
things which really matter. 

9. The Board do not feel called upon to encourage mere 
conformity to gymnastic standards or the production of any 
particular type of gymnast, or even the popular custom of class 
displays by selected teams. These are no doubt good things 
in their place, but what the Board desire to secure is the care- 
ful and well-balanced cultivation of the physical powers of each 
individual child. This will be obtained not so much by 
demanding a mere mechanical reproduction of certain move- 
ments as by the appropriate application to the class, and even 
to each child, of the series of exercises set out in the Tables, 
which, though they call for attention and concentration of 
mind, have been so graded and should be so taught as to suit 
the age and intelligence as well as the physical requirement of 
the child. To ascertain how far he is securing this end, the 
efficient teacher, whilst teaching the Tables with discipline and 
precision, will watch in particular the effects of the exercises 
upon his pupils, submitting a child when necessary to medical 
examination by the School Medical Officer. 

10. The Board consider it of the utmost importance that 
the teacher should be encouraged to consider the principles 
embodied in the Syllabus and to apply them to the teaching of 



APPENDIX V 391 

the children under his care. With this object in view, some 
general guidance has been provided in the chapters and 
appendices of the Syllabus as to the Theory and Practice of 
the subject. These have been dealt with as briefly and simply 
as possible, chiefly to meet the needs of those numerous 
teachers who have not had the advantage of special training in 
this subject. 

II. In conclusion, the Board wish to impress upon Local 
Education Authorities that the development of the physique of 
the children under their care is a matter of national importance. 
They do not pretend that the mere adoption of the official 
Syllabus will prove an effective remedy for all the physical 
defects which at present afflict so many of these children, but 
they are convinced that the principles on which the Syllabus is 
based are sound, and that its general adoption and right inter- 
pretation and teaching will be fruitful in practical benefits. 
They therefore appeal confidently to Education Authorities to 
assist them loyally in the establishment of a system which will, 
as they believe, contribute materially towards the success of the 
efforts now being made to promote the moral, mental, and 
physical development of the children in Public Elementary 
Schools, and to ensure that every such child shall receive, as 
far as possible, a training which shall fit him or her to perform 
the duties of life with vigour and success. 

Robert L. Morant. 

July, 1909. 



APPENDIX VI 

Regulations for the Training of Teachers for 
Elementary Schools. Appendix C. 5. " Hygiene 
Syllabus " 

The following Syllabus is intended to serve as a model for 
general guidance, but alternative Syllabuses may be submitted 
to the Board for approval, provided they are not less compre- 
hensive than this. 

The Board's Final Examination for Students in Training 
Colleges will include a paper in Hygiene containing questions 
based on this Syllabus, a certain number of alternative questions 
being allowed to meet the case of Colleges for which alternative 
Syllabuses may have been approved. 

The sole object of the Syllabus is to develop in the student 
an intelligent appreciation of the theory and practice of 
Hygiene. The Course is intended to familiarize him with the 
general principles of Hygiene, with a view to their practical 
application by him, when he has become a teacher, in the 
educational and personal interests of the children who come 
under his care in the Public Elementary Schools. It is not in 
any way whatever meant to be a Syllabus upon which instruc- 
tion is to be given to children, and no attempt must be made 
to use it in that way. The purpose kept in view in the 
Syllabus has been to give the student a good general survey of 
the subject as a whole. To secure this object it is necessary 
that a wide ground should be covered, but too much time 
should not be devoted to any one part of the subject. Some 
class work, including practical demonstrations, should also be 
undertaken, and full opportunity should be given for the 
Students to question the lecturer. 



APPENDIX VI 393 



Lecture I. — Introductory 

The place of man in the animal kingdom. 

The cell as unit of tissues and organs of the body. Its 
life, growth^ and reproduction (compare amoeba). 

Structure and function, work and rest. Division of labour. 

The child a developing and immature human being. 
Factors influencing its development : (a) hereditary and 
antenatal conditions ; (If) environment ; (c) nutrition and 
training (particularly of brain and nervous system during 
plastic period of growth). 

Lecture II. — ^The Skeleton and Muscular System 

The skeleton and its development in the young. Joints. 
Locomotion. 

Importance of attitudes and postures. Spinal curvature. 

The muscular system and its relation to the nervous 
system. 

Influence of proper and sufficient food. Effect of alcohol. 

Physical exercises, drilling and games. Muscular fatigue. 

Lecture III. — The Digestive System 

The alimentary canal. 

Process of digestion, commencing in mouth. Hygiene of 
mouth, teeth, etc. 

Dietaries. Amount and sorts of foods for children, uses 
and values. Characteristics of unsound food. 

Evil results of wrong feeding, underfeeding, food poisoning. 
Dangers of stimulants, alcohol, tea, etc. 

Signs of malnutrition. Rickets. 

Lecture IV. — The Respiratory and Circulating 

Systems 

The purpose of the circulation of the blood. Blood, heart 
and blood vessels. Anaemia. The lymphatic system. 



394 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

The lungs. Purpose and mechanism of respiration. 
Breathing exercises. Obstruction to breathing (adenoids, etc.). 

Difference between fresh and expired air. 

Relation of respiration and circulation to nervous system. 
The effects of exercise, malnutrition, tight clothing, alcohol, etc. 

Advantages of an open-air life. 

Lecture V.— The Excretory System 

Waste matter — in tissues as result of work, in bowel as 
undigested and indigestible food. 

Excretory organs and how they work, skin, kidneys, 
lungs, etc. 

Evils resulting from delayed or irregular excretion. 

Importance of personal cleanliness, regular habits, nutrition, 
clothing. 

The care of the body. 

Lecture VL — The Nervous System 

Brain, spinal cord, motor and sensory nerves. 

Reflex action. Brain centres and nerve cells. The way 
the brain works. Co-ordination and association. 

Requirements of a healthy nervous system (nourishment, 
regular habits, physical exercises, manual and intellectual work, 
periods of rest and change of occupation). Evil effects of 
malnutrition, defective senses, overstrain, impure air, bad 
habits, alcohol, etc Causes of mental dulness, feeble- 
mindedness, headaches, neuralgia. 

Development of child's mind and nervous system (sensory 
receptivity, reflex movement, imitation, attention, self-control; 
nourishment and education of nerve cells; development of 
motor centres by muscular exercise). 

Physical and mental fatigue. 

Lecture VII. — Sense Organs 

Relation of senses to nervous system. 
Their training and development. 



I 



APPENDIX VI 395 

Sense of Sight. — Structure of the eye. Eye muscles; 
mechanism of accommodation. 

The visual centre in the brain. 

Defects of vision and common eye disease. 

Eye strain, particularly in young children. 

Short and long sight, etc. Vision testing. 

Effect on sight of bad light, long hours, small print, close 
work, etc., especially in childhood. 

Lecture VIII. — Sense Organs {continued) 

Hearing, — Structure of ear. The auditory centre in the 
brain. Causes and signs of defective hearing. Tests. Deaf- 
mutism. 

Speech. — The structure and use of vocal organs. Voice 
training and defective articulation. Speech centres. Aphasia. 

Sense of Smell. 

Sense of Touch. — Co-ordination, temperature, feeling, 
muscular sense. 

Lecture IX. — Sanitation of the School 

Requirements of the healthy school : — 
Suitability of site, soil, and construction (various types of 

school buildings). 
Water Supply. — Collection, storage, and distribution. 

Various forms of pollution. Methods of prevention. 
Sanitary conveniences (various types), drainage, refuse 

removal. Earth closets and their management 
Effects of sewer gas. 

Lecture X. — Sanitation of the School {continued) 

Ventilation — cubic capacity, amount of fresh air 
necessary. Impurities of atmosphere and their effects. 
Methods of ventilation. 

Warming and lighting. 



396 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

Equipment.— (Class-rooms, desks, blackboards, cloak- 
rooms, lavatories, etc.) The Hygiene of Infant De- 
partments. 

Cleanliness. — Class-room as an object-lesson in health. 

Duties of individual in relation to health of community. 

Lecture XI. — Disabilities and Diseases of Children 

The relation of micro-organisms to disease. Conditions of 
their life. Relation of seed (bacteria) and soil (body tissues). 
Means of resistance. 

Inherited tendencies and conditions due to environment 
(dirt, neglect, exposure, etc). Predisposition to disease. 

Early signs and symptoms of ill-health in children (nervous 
conditions, infectious diseases, parasites). 

Lecture XII. — Medical Inspection of Schools, etc. 

The objects and method of medical inspection of schools 
and school children. 

Methods of detecting and dealing with physically and 
mentally defective children. 

Direct and indirect means of cultivating good physical 
habits in school, and adapting education to the physical needs 
of the child. (Example and health of teacher, games, physical 
exercises, ventilation, cleanliness, absence of near-eye work.) 

School closure and exclusion of children on medical 
grounds. First aid in minor injuries and common ailments. 

Disinfection. 



APPENDIX VII 

Children Act, 1908. Section 122 dealing with the 
Cleansing of Verminous Children 

(i) A Local Education Authority may direct their medical 
officer, or any person provided with and, if required, exhibit- 
ing the authority in writing of their medical officer, to examine 
in any Public Elementary School provided or maintained by 
the authority the person and clothing of any child attending the 
school, and, if on examination the medical officer, or any such 
authorized person as aforesaid, is of opinion that the person or 
clothing of any such child is infested with vermin or is in a 
foul or filthy condition, the Local Education Authority may give 
notice in writing to the parent or guardian of, or other person 
liable to maintain, the child, requiring him to cleanse properly 
the person and clothing of the child within twenty-four hours 
after the receipt of the notice. 

(2) If the person to whom any such notice as aforesaid is 
given fails to comply therewith within such twenty-four hours, 
the medical officer, or some person provided with and, if re- 
quired, exhibiting the authority in writing of the medical officer, 
may remove the child referred to in the notice from any such 
school, and may cause the person and clothing of the child to 
be properly cleansed in suitable premises and with suitable 
appliances, and may, if necessary for that purpose, without any 
warrant other than this section, convey to such premises and 
there detain the child until the cleansing is effected. 

(3) Where any Sanitary Authority within the district of a 
Local Education Authority have provided, or are entitled to the 
use of, any premises or appliances for cleansing the person or 
clothing of persons infested with vermin, the Sanitary Authority 
shall, if so required by the Local Education Authority, allow the 

397 



398 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

Local Education Authority to use such premises and appliances 
for the purpose of this section upon such payment (if any) as 
may be agreed between them or, in default of agreement, settled 
by the Local Government Board. 

(4) Where, after the person or clothing of a child has been 
cleansed by a Local Education Authority under this section, the 
parent or guardian of, or other person liable to maintain, the 
child allows him to get into such a condition that it is again 
necessary to proceed under this section, the parent, guardian, 
or other person shall, on summary conviction, be liable to a 
fine not exceeding ten shillings. 

(5) Where a Local Education Authority give notice under 
this section to the parent or guardian of, or other person liable 
to maintain, a child, requiring him to cleanse the person and 
clothing of the child, the Authority shall also furnish him with 
written instructions describing the manner in which the 
cleansing may best be effected. 

(6) The examination and cleansing of girls under this 
section shall only be effected by a duly qualified medical 
practitioner or by a woman duly authorized as herein-before 
provided. 

(7) For the purposes of this section "medical officer" 
means any officer appointed for the purpose of section thirteen 
of the Education (Administrative Provisions) Act, 1907. 



APPENDIX VIII 

Regulations under which Grants to Day Nurseries 
IN England and Wales will be made by the Board 
OF Education during the Year ending on 31ST 
March, 191 5. 

1. The Board will make grants to Day Nurseries during the 
Financial Year ending on the 31st March, 191 5, in respect of 
provision made for the care and physical welfare of infants and 
young children attending them. 

2. A Day Nursery is primarily an institution which provides 
during the day for the care of infants and young children 
under three years of age, for whom adequate care cannot be 
provided in their own homes by reason of the necessary absence 
of the mother at work or other similar cause, and which en- 
deavours to promote the physical welfare of such infants and 
young children. Children over the age of three may be ad- 
mitted with the approval of the Board if proper provision can 
be made for them. 

3. Grant will be assessed on the basis of the work done by 
the institution during the year ending on the 31st March, 1914. 

4. The grant may be paid at the rate of not more than 4d. 
for each attendance, provided that in any case the total grant 
shall not exceed one-half of the approved net expenditure. 
Where the Board are not satisfied as to the provision made by 
the institution and the efficiency of its working, or as to the 
accuracy of the records of attendance, the grant may be paid 
at a lower rate or withheld altogether. 

5. (a) No attendance will be counted for grant unless the 
infant or young child has attended the Day Nursery for not less 



400 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

than 9 hours during the day, except that where the infant or 
young child has attended for not less than 5 hours, half an 
attendance may be counted. 

{b) In determining the approved net expenditure for the 
purpose of these Regulations the Board will disregard any item 
of expenditure which in their opinion cannot properly be taken 
into account, and will deduct any payments made for the care 
of the children and other similar receipts. 

6. In fixing the rate of grant the Board will take into con- 
sideration the scope, character and efficiency of the work of 
the institution. In particular the Board will have regard to — 

(fl) The provision made for the medical inspection and 

supervision of the infants and young children. 
{b) The number and qualifications of the staff. 
(c) The provision made for promoting the physical welfare 

of the children. 
{d) The arrangements for the prevention of infectious 

disease among children attending the institution. 
(e) The suitability of the premises and equipment. 
(/) The methods adopted for confining the benefits of the 
institution to infants and young children who, by 
reason of the necessary absence of the mother at 
work or other similar cause cannot be adequately 
cared for in the home. 
(g) The character and accuracy of the records kept. 
{h) The co-ordination of the work of the institution with 
that of— 

(i) similar institutions in the same district ; 
(ii) other types of institution providing for 
infant welfare in the district ; and 

(iii) the Local Education Authority on the one 
hand and the Sanitary Authority on the other. 

7. (a) The institution must be conducted by a responsible 
body of Managers, and a person must be appointed to act as 
Correspondent on behalf of the Managers. 

ip) The institution must not be conducted for private pro- 
fit or farmed out to any member of the staff. 

8. Any institution desiring to apply for grant under these 



APPENDIX VIII 401 

Regulations should forward to the Board of Education as soon 
as possible a statement in an approved form of the work done 
during the year ending on 31st March, 19 14, together with a 
statement of receipts and expenditure for that year. 

9. If any question arises as to the interpretation of these 
Regulations, the decision of the Board shall be final. 



26 



APPENDIX IX 

Regulations under which Grants in respect of the 
Provision of Meals for Children attending Public 
Elementary Schools in England and Wales will 
be made by the Board of Education during the 
Year ending on the 31ST March, 19 15, if Provision 
IS MADE by Parliament for the purpose. 

1. The Board of Education will, if provision is made by 
Parliament for the purpose, make grants to Local Education 
Authorities during the financial year ending on the 31st March, 
191 5, in respect of the provision of meals for children attending 
Public Elementary Schools, under the Education (Provision of 
Meals) Act, 1906. 

2. The aggregate amount of the grants will be limited, and 
they will be distributed at the discretion of the Board. 

3. Grant will be assessed on the basis of the work done and 
the payments made by the Local Education Authority during 
the year ending on the 31st March, 19 14. 

4. In distributing the grant the Board will take into con- 
sideration : — 

(a) the extent to which the work is co-ordinated with that 

of the School Medical Service ; 
(d) the care exercised in the selection of the children for 

admission to the meals ; 

(c) the sufficiency and suitability of the dietary ; 

(d) the extent to which attention is given to the educational 

aspect of the work ; 

(e) the suitability of the accommodation and equipment and 

the efficiency of the service and supervision of the 
meals ; 



APPENDIX IX 403 

(/) the completeness of the arrangements made or ascer- 
taining and recording the effect of the meals on the' 
physical and mental conditions of the children ; 

(g) the economical administration of the work. 

5. The Board will require to receive as soon as possible (a) 
a statement in an approved form of the arrangements made 
and the expenditure actually incurred in respect of the provision 
of meals during the year which ended on the 31st March, 19 14, 
and (/^) a statement in an approved form showing the arrange- 
ments proposed for the year ending on the 31st March, 191 5, 
together with an estimate of the expenditure for that year. 

6. The Board may disregard any items of expenditure 
which, in their opinion, should not be taken into account for 
the purpose of the grant, and if any question arises as to the 
interpretation of these Regulations the decision of the Board 
shall be final. 



. APPENDIX X 

Mental Deficiency (Notification of Children) Regu- 
lations, 1 9 14, of the Board of Education 

The Board of Education, by virtue and in pursuance of 
the powers in them vested under the Mental Deficiency Act, 
19 1 3, and of every other power enabling them in this behalf, 
do order, and it is hereby ordered, that the following Regula- 
tions be observed : — 

1. The School Medical Officer of the Local Education 
Authority and such other duly qualified medical practitioners 
approved by the Board of Education under the Elementary 
Education (Defective and Epileptic Children) Act, 1899, as 
the Local Education Authority may nominate for that purpose, 
hereinafter called Certifying Officers, shall be the Medical 
Officers for the purpose of these Regulations. 

2. (i) If the Certifying Officer certifies that a child of the 
age of seven years or upwards is incapable, by reason of mental 
defect, of receiving benefit from instruction in a special school 
or class under the Elementary Education (Defective and 
Epileptic Children) Act, 1899, the Local Education Authority 
shall notify the name and address of the child to the Local 
Authority under the Mental Deficiency Act, 19 13, and shall 
furnish that Authority with a copy of the certificate of the 
Certifying Officer, which shall be in the prescribed form, and 
of his report on the child. 

(2) In any case where, upon consideration of the certificate 
of the Certifying Officer and of any report which may be 
obtained by the Local Education Authority as hereinafter 
provided, the Local Education Authority are in doubt whether 



APPENDIX X 405 

a child is or is not capable of receiving such benefit as afore- 
said, they shall refer to the Board of Education for determina- 
tion the question whether the name should be notified. 

(3) In any case where it is proposed to notify under this 
Article of these Regulations the name of a child who is not an 
idiot or an imbecile, the Local Education Authority shall 
furnish the Board of Education with a copy of the report of 
the Certifying Officer on the child, and if, after consideration 
of the report, the Board so require, shall refer to the Board 
for determination the question whether the name should be 
notified. 

3. (i) If the Certifying Officer certifies that a child of the 
age of seven years or upwards who is, or has been, in attend- 
ance at a special school or class under the Elementary Educa- 
tion (Defective and Epileptic Children) Act, 1899, is incapable 
of receiving further benefit from instruction in such a school 
or class, the Local Education Authority shall notify the name 
and address of the child to the Local Authority under the 
Mental Deficiency Act, 19 13, and shall furnish that Authority 
with a copy of the certificate of the Certifying Officer, which 
shall be in the prescribed form, and of his report on the 
child. 

(2) In any case where, upon consideration of the certificate 
of the Certifying Officer and of any report which may be 
obtained by the Local Education Authority as hereinafter 
provided, the Local Education Authority are in doubt whether 
a child is or is not capable of receiving such further benefit as 
aforesaid, they shall refer to the Board of Education for 
determination the question whether the name should be 
notified. 

(3) In any case where it is proposed to notify under this 
Article of these Regulations the name of a child who is not 
an idiot or an imbecile, the Local Education Authority shall 
furnish the Board of Education with a copy of the report of 
the Certifying Officer on the child and if, after consideration 
of the report, the Board so require, shall refer to the Board 
for determination the question whether the name should be 
notified. 



4o6 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

4. (i) If the Certifying Officer certifies that a child of the 
age of seven years or upwards cannot be instructed in a 
special school or class under the Elementary Education (Defec- 
tive and Epileptic Children) Act, 1899, without detriment to 
the interests of the other children, the Local Education 
Authority shall notify the name and address of the child to 
the Local Authority under the Mental Deficiency Act, 19 13, 
and shall furnish that Authority with a copy of the certificate 
of the Certifying Officer, which shall be in the prescribed 
form, and of his report on the child. 

(2) In any case where, upon consideration of the certificate 
of the Certifying Officer and of any report which may be 
obtained by the Local Education Authority as hereinafter 
provided, the Local Education Authority are in doubt whether 
the retention of a child in a special school or class would be 
detrimental to the interests of the other children, they shall 
refer to the Board of Education for determination the question 
whether the name should be notified. 

(3) In any case where it is proposed to notify under this 
Article of these Regulations the name of a child who is not 
a moral imbecile, the Local Education Authority shall furnish 
the Board of Education with a copy of the report of the 
Certifying Officer on the child, and if, after consideration of 
the report, the Board so require, shall refer to the Board for 
determination the question whether the name should be 
notified. 

5. If the Local Education Authority are satisfied upon any 
representation made to them or otherwise that it is desirable 
that a mentally defective child of the age of seven years or 
upwards who is certified to be capable of receiving benefit from 
instruction in a special school or class under the Elementary 
Education (Defective and Epileptic Children) Act, 1899, should 
be dealt with by way of supervision or guardianship under the 
Mental Deficiency Act, 19 13, they shall notify the case to the 
Board of Education, together with such particulars as the Board 
of Education may require, and if the Board certify that there 
are special circumstances which render it desirable that the 
child should be dealt with under the Mental Deficiency Act, 



APPENDIX X 407 

191 3, by way of supervision or guardianship, the Local 
Education Authority shall notify the name and address of 
the child to the Local Authority under the Mental Deficiency 
Act, 1913. 

6. The Local Education Authority shall notify to the Local 
Authority under the Mental Deficiency Act, 19 13, the name 
and address of any mentally defective child who, on or before 
attaining the age of sixteen, is about to be withdrawn or dis- 
charged from a special school or class under the Elementary 
Education (Defective and Epileptic Children) Act, 1899, and 
in whose case the Local Education Authority are of opinion 
that it would be to his benefit that he should be sent to an 
institution or placed under guardianship under the Mental 
Deficiency Act, 19 13. 

7. For the purpose of these Regulations the Local Educa- 
tion Authority may ask for a report from any teacher of the 
school, if any, which the child has been attending, or from any 
other person, and if on consideration of such report or reports 
or of the report of the Certifying Oflficer the Local Education 
Authority are in doubt as to the action to be taken, they shall 
refer the case to the Board of Education for determination. 

8. In any case where a Local Education Authority propose 
to notify to the Local Authority under the Mental Deficiency 
Act, 19 1 3, the name of a child who is Wind or deaf within 
the meaning of section 15 (i) of the Elementary Education 
(Blind and Deaf Children) Act, 1893, the Local Education 
Authority shall furnish the Board of Education with a copy of 
the report of the Certifying Officer on the child and, in the 
case of a child already in attendance at a special school for 
blind or deaf children, with a report by the Head Teacher of 
the school on the child's progress while in the school, and if, 
after consideration of the report or reports, the Board so re- 
quire, shall refer to the Board for determination the question 
whether the name of the child should be notified. 

9. The Local Education Authority shall inform the parent 
of any child affected by these Regulations of any action pro- 
posed to be taken with reference to that child under these 
Regulations, 



4o8 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

lo. (i) In these Regulations the expression "prescribed" 
means prescribed in the arrangements made by the Local 
Education Authority under section i of the Elementary 
Education (Defective and Epileptic Children) Act, 1899, and 
section 31 (i) of the Mental Deficiency Act, 19 13. 

(2) These Regulations may be cited as the Mental 
Deficiency (Notification of Children) Regulations, 19 14. 



APPENDIX XI 

Tests of MM. Binet and Simon, Grouped according 
TO Age, as Modified by Dr. Goddard 

THREE YEARS 

1. Points out nose, eyes, and mouth. 

2. Repeats two numbers. 

3. Enumerates the objects in a picture. 

4. Knows name. 

5. Repeats a sentence — e.g.^ " It is cold and snowing." (An 
average child of three can repeat six, but not ten, 
syllables.) 

FOUR YEARS 

1. Tells whether a little boy or a little girl. 

2. Names familiar objects — e.g.^ key, knife, penny. 

3. Repeats three numbers. 

4. Points out the longer of two lines. 



FIVE YEARS 

1. Tells which is the heavier of two weights. 

2. Copies a square. 

3. Repeats a sentence of ten syllables — e.g., " His name 

John. He is a very good boy." 

4. Counts four pennies. 

5. Re-constructs an oblong card which has been cut diagon- 

ally into two pieces. 

409 



410 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 



SIX YEARS 

1. Knows whether it is morning or afternoon. 

2. Says what common objects are used for — e.g.^ fork, chair, 

table, horse, mother. 

3. Obeys triple Commands — e.g., puts key on chair, brings box, 

shuts door. 

4. Shows right hand and left ear. 

5. Says which is pretty and which is ugly of a series of 

drawings of faces. 

SEVEN YEARS 

1. Counts thirteen pennies. 

2. Describes pictures. (The same pictures as for three years 

are used, but the child is now required to describe 
them, not merely enumerate objects.) 

3. Notices that certain parts are missing from drawings of 

incomplete figures. 

4. Can copy diamond. 

5. Names four colours — e.g., red, blue, green, yellow. 

EIGHT YEARS 

1. Compares two things from memory, such as fly and butter- 

fly ; wood and glass ; paper and cloth. 

2. Counts backwards from 20 to i. 

3. Repeats the days of the week. 

4. Counts stamps — i, i, 1, 2, 2, 2. 

5. Repeats five figures, 4, 7, 3, 9, 5. 

NINE YEARS 

1. Gives change out of a shilling. (This is done with the toy- 

shop game, using real money.) 

2. Describes common objects by definition superior to use. 

3. Knows date. 

4. Repeats the months in order. 



APPENDIX XI 411 

5. Arrange five weights in order of heaviness (each differs by 
3 grammes). 

TEN YEARS 

1. Knows money : ;^i, los., 2s. 6d., 2s., is., 6d., 3d., id., Jd. 

2. Copies two simple designs from memory after having seen 

them for ten seconds (a prism and a Greek moulding). 

3. Repeats six figures : 8, 5, 4, 7, 2, 6 ; 9, 4, i, 7, 3, 8. 

4. Comprehends easy questions. 

5. Uses given words in two sentences. 

ELEVEN YEARS 

1. Sees absurdity in statements — e.g., " An unfortunate bicycle 

rider broke his head and died instantly ; he was picked 
up and carried to a hospital, and they do not think he 
will recover." " I have three brothers — Paul, Ernest, 
and myself." "Some one said, 'If I kill myself in 
despair some day, I shan't choose Friday to do it, 
because Friday brings you bad luck ! ' " " We met a 
man who was finely dressed ; he was walking along the 
street with his hands in his pocket and twirling his 
cane." 

2. Uses three given words in three minutes. 

3. Gives sixty words in three minutes. 

4. Gives three rhymes — e.g., to-day, spring, mill, etc. 

5. Re-arranges a simple sentence the words of which have 

been put out of order. 

TWELVE YEARS 

1. Repeats seven figures : 2, 9, 6, 4, 3, 7, 5 ; 9, 2, 8, 5, i, 6, 4 ; 

I, 6, 9, 7, 2, 8, 3. 

2. Defines charity, justice, and goodness. 

3. Repeats a sentence of twenty-six syllables — e.g., " I saw in 

the street a pretty little dog. It had curly brown hair, 
short legs, and a long tail." 

4. Resists suggestion made by lines of different lengths. (The 

child is confronted by a series of pairs of unequal lines, 



412 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

and this is then followed by a series in which the lines 
are equal, and he is asked which are the longer. The 
test is passed if he recognizes the equality of the second 
series.) 
5. Explains an incomplete account of some incident — e.g.^ 
"My neighbour has been having strange visitors. 
He has received one after the other a doctor, a lawyer, 
and a clergyman. What has happened in his house ? " 



FIFTEEN YEARS 

1. Interprets an impressionable picture. 

2. Interchanges hands of a clock — e.g.^ if 6.20, what would 

the time be if the hour and minute hands were inter- 
changed ? 

3. Writes in a simple code which has previously been ex- 

plained to him. 

4. Gives the opposites to a list of words supplied. 

ADULT 

1. Cutting paper. 

2. Reversed triangle. 

3. Gives differences between pleasure and honour, poverty 

and misery, anger and disdain, etc. 

4. Gives the difference between a King and the President of 

a Republic. 

5. Gives the sense of a selection which has been read to him. 

To allow for unavoidable variation MM. Binet and Simon 
found it accurate to consider that a child has the mental 
development of the highest age for which he has succeeded 
in all tests save one. After fixing the age for which a child 
passes all the tests, a year is added to the intelligence age if 
he has succeeded in passing five additional tests belonging to 
superior age groups, two years are added if he has passed 
ten such tests, three years if he has passed fifteen, and so on. 

A child i who fails to answer the questions or carry out the 



APPENDIX XI 4t3 

tests for a normal child three or more years younger than 
himself is considered mentally defective. 

Dr. Goddard's modification of the tests of MM. Binet 
and Simon for American children has been so made that 
a child is required to pass all tests relating to a particular 
age.* 

Mr. W. H. Winch has worked out a modification in accord- 
ance with the results of his research on children attending 
English Public Elementary Schools.! 

* Further information as to the Binet-Simon scale is afforded in The 
Development of Intelligence in Children^ by Alfred Binet, Sc.D., and 
Th. Simon, translated by Elizabeth S. Kite, with an introduction by Henry 
H. Goddard, D.Sc. [Published by the Training School, Vineland, New 
Jersey, U.S.A.] 

t Copies of the scheme may be obtained from Messrs. Ralph, Holland 
& Co., 35 and 36 Temple Chambers, E.C. It gives detailed information 
of an exact method of applying the tests. 



INDEX 

ACARUS SCABIKI {see Itch mite) 
Adenoids, symptoms, etc., 46 

„ treatment of, 192 

^Esthetics and school planning, 365 
After care for blind, 125, 140 
Alcohol and mental deficiency, 97 
Amblyoscope, 191 
Ansemia, 68 

„ treatment of, 200 
Arkle, Dr. A. S., Liverpool children, nutrition of, 20, 21 
Assembly Hall, 331 

Attendance at Clinic, and School Attendance Officer, 178 
„ „ and School Nurse, 178 

*, „ and Teacher, 179 

Backward children, 84 

„ „ practical class for, 88 

„ „ report by Dr. A. H. Hogarth on, 85 

„- „ schools for, at Mannheim, 90 

Barwise, Dr. S., on pavilion type of school building, 329 
Baths, school, 223 
„ shower, 224 
„ swimming, 226 
Binet and Simon's tests for mental deficiency, 105, 409 
Blepharitis, 43 

„ treatment of, 190 

Blind children, 121 
„ „ day and residential schools for, 121 

„ •„ day school for, 123 

,, „ feeble-minded, 139 

Blindness, causation of, 122 

„ Dr. A. Bronner on, 122 

Breakfasts, school, 210 
Bronchitis, 61 

Bronner, Dr. Adolph, on blindness in children, 122 
Brownlee, Dr. John, on the influence of holidays in connection 

with the spread of scarlet fever, 301 
Bug, 72 



4i6 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

Camp school, 270 
Canteen committees, 208 
Care committees, 142 
Caries of teeth {see Decay of teeth) 
"Carriers" in cerebro-spinal fever, 318 
„ „ diphtheria, 312 

„ „ infantile paralysis, 321 

„ „ scarlet fever, 303 

Central-hall type of school, 329 
Cerebro-spinal fever, 318 
Classes for backward, 88 
„ „ partially blind, 125 
„ „ „ deaf, 128 

„ „ high myopes, 125 
Choice of Employment Act, 1910, 274, 276 

„ „ for defective children, 276 

Chorea, 59 

Cimex lectularis {see Bug) 
Circular 576 (Board of Education memorandum on Medical In- 
spection), 10 
„ 582 (Board of Education memorandum on the Arrange- 
ments for Medical Inspection), 373 
„ 596 (Board of Education memorandum on the Duties of 
the School Medical Officer and the Treatment of 
School Children), 379 
„ 852, of the Board of Education on Schools for Mothers, 169 
„ 879, of the Board of Education on Day Nurseries, 166 
Classroom, the, 328 
Cleanliness, 18 

Clinic, school {see School, clinic) 
Cloakroom, the, 362 
Closets, 363 

Closure of class for measles, 285, 286 
„ school for diphtheria, 313 

„ „ measles, 285 

„ „ scarlet fever, 305 

„ „ whooping cough, 315 

Clothing, 17 

Combined defects, children with, 139 
Conjunctivitis, 44 

„ treatment of, 189 

Consultative Committee of the Board of Education on " Nursery 

Schools," 158 
Contagious skin disease, 70 

„ „ treatment of, 186 

Contributions to hospitals, etc., 384 
Cornea, affections of, 44 
„ in measles, 284 
Creches {see Day Nurseries) 



INDEX 417 

Cripples, 135 

„ Day Schools for, 138 
„ Residential Trade Schools for, 138 
„ feeble-minded, 140 
Cuff, Miss Marian E., menus for school children, 214 
Cunningham, George, and A. W. Gant, report on dental inspection 

and treatment of school children, 53 
Curriculum of class for high myopes, 126 
„ „ partially blind, 127 

„ Nursery School, 160 

„ Open-air Recovery School, 255 

„ school for blind, 124 

„ „ feeble-minded, 109 

Dancing, 245 

Day Nurseries, 165 

Day Special Schools for blind, 121 

„ „ physically defective, 136 

deaf, 130 
„ „ mental defectives, 107 

Deaf children, 128 
„ „ Day and Residential School for, 130 

„ „ feeble-minded, 140 

Deaf-mutism, causation, 131 

„ classification, 129 

Deafness {see Hearing, defective) 
Decay of teeth, 53 

„ „ a contagious condition, 56 
„ „ causation of, 56 
„ „ prevention of, 194 
Deformities, 74 

„ treatment of, 197 

Dental clinic, 194 

„ „ accommodation required for, i8o 

„ „ at Cambridge, 195 

„ inspection and treatment of school children, report on, 
G. Cunningham and A. W. Gant, 53 
Desk and seat, the, 359 
Dinners, school, 214 
Diphtheria, 149, 307 

„ disinfection of school, 313 

„ duration of infection, 313 

„ exclusion of contacts, 314 

„ incubation period, 308 

„ methods of spreading, 309 

„ prevention of, 311 

„ school closure for, 3 1 3 

Disinfection, 323 
Dukes, Dr. Clement, Health at School^ 28 

27 



41 8 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

Ear discharge, 51 
„ „ and adenoids, 49 

„ „ treatment of, 193 

Eczema, 73 

Education (Administrative Provisions) Act, 1907, 6 
Elmslie, Dr. R. C, on crippled children, 136 

„ „ age of onset of surgical tuberculosis, 137 

Employed school children, medical examination of, 275 
Employment, Juvenile, and the School Medical Service, 271 
„ of Children Act, 1903, 274 

„ rural school children, Mr. Pope on, 273 

„ suitable for physical condition of child, 276 

„ urban school children, Dr. C. J. Thomas on, 272 

Enteric fever {see Typhoid fever) 
Environment and mental deficiency, 96 
Epileptic children, 115 

„ „ classification of, 117 

„ „ numbers of, 117 

„ „ residential homes for, 121 

„ „ treatment of, 118 

Eye disease, external, 42 
„ „ „ treatment of, 189 

„ „ associated with adenoids, 50 
Eyesight, defective, 32 

„ „ causation of, 38 

Factory and Workshops Act, 277 
Factory Surgeon and School Medical Staff, 277 
„ „ in Toronto, 278 

„ „ „ England and Wales, 277 

„ „ „ United States, 277 

Fairfield, Dr. Laetitia, on holidays and spread of scarlet fever, 

300 
Favus, T}> 
Feeble-minded children, day special schools for, 107 

„ „ definition of, 94 / 

„ „ number of, 95 

„ „ Report of Royal Commission on Care 

and Control of, 106 
„ „ residential schools for, 1 1 1 

„ „ treatment of, 105 

Feeding of school children, 203 

„ „ and the School Medical Staff, 217 

„ „ Canteen Committee, 208 

„ „ character of meals, 210 

„ „ cost of meals, 215 

„ „ difficulties and objections, 218 

„ „ " necessitous " children, 207 

„ „ place of service of meals, 210 



INDEX 419 

Feeding of school children, Provision of Meals Acts, 204 

„ „ Regulations of Board of Education as 

to grants, 402 
„ „ selection of children, 208 

„ „ serving of food, 215 

Fernald, Dr. W. E., and tests for mental classification, 105 

Flat foot, 75 

Flea, 72 

Food, 79 

Forced whisper test, 46 

Fresh air, 79, 153 

Games, 242 
German measles, 293 
Glands, enlarged, 52 

„ tuberculous, treatment of, 193 
Glare, 353 

Goddard, H. H., on heredity of mental deficiency, 96 
„ „ feeble-mindedness, 93 

„ „ modification of Binet and Simon's tests, 105, 409 

Gonorrhoea, 66 

Gorst, Sir John, on open-air schools, 249 
Gowdy, Dr. Annie, on extent of pulmonary tuberculosis in London 

school children, 63 
Grimsdale, Dr. H., and partially blind children, 127 
Gulick, Dr. Luther H., on folk-dancing, 246 

„ „ on Medical Inspection of Schools^ 4 



Handkerchief, training in use of, 1 54 
Hay, Dr. Percival J., on blepharitis, 43 
Hard of hearing children, 129 
Harman, Mr. Bishop, on blind children, 66, 67 
Headache, 70 

„ associated with adenoids, 50 

„ treatment of, 200 

Health at School^ Dr. Clement Dukes, 28 
Healy, Dr. W. C., and tests for mental classification, 105 
Hearing, defective, 45 

„ „ and speech development, 45 

„ „ as a cause of dulness and backwardness, 45 

„ „ associated with adenoids, 49 

„ „ causation of, 131 

Heart disease, 59 
„ „ prevention of, 60 

„ „ treatment of, 198 

Heating of the school {see Warming) 
Heavy-weights, lifting of, by children, 275 
Height and weight, value of observations, 24 



}> 


» 


»» 


>» 


tj 


J> 



420 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

Height and weight, of good^ medium^ a.nd /foor elementary school 
children, 30 
„ „ rural and urban children, 28 

Height of three classes of schoolboys, 29 

„ „ „ schoolgirls, 30 

Heredity, 76 

„ and mental deficiency, 96 
Hertz, Dr. Poul, on character of medical staff of school clinic, 184 
High myopes, 125 

Hogarth, Dr. A. H., on backward children, 85 
Hutchinsonian teeth, 66 
Hypermetropia, 35 

IDIOGLOSSIA, 135 

Imbecile and idiot children, 113 

„ definition of, 94 
„ number of, 95 
„ treatment of, 113 
Impetigo, 71 

„ treatment of, 186 
Incubation period, 279 
Infant, education of, 143 

„ lower age limit of school attendance, 145 
„ requirements of, for healthful development, 146 
Infantile paralysis, 320 

„ „ and crippling, 136, 137 

Infectious disease, 279 

„ „ in relation to age of school attendance of in- 

fants, 147 
„ „ teachers in relation to the seed and soil, 281 

Influenza, 318 
Inspection clinic, 175 
Inter-departmental committee on medical inspection and feeding 

of school children, 6 
Intermediate classes for backward children, 88 
Itch, 71 
Itch mite, 71 

Jones, W. H., on dental decay, a contagious condition, 55 

Keratitis, 45 

„ treatment of, 190 

Kerr, Dr. James, on education of infants, 151, 15^5 
„ „ „ moral defect, 92 

„ „ „ placing of sources of light, 353 

„ „ „ shower baths, 225 

„ „ „ the effect of exodus of children from London 

during holidays on the spread of scarlet 
fever, 300 



INDEX 421 

Kerr, Dr. James, on word deafness, 91 
Koplik's spots, 284 

Labour Exchanges Act, 1909, 274, 276 

Lalling, 135 

Lateral curvature of spine, 74 

„ „ „ treatment of, 198 

Lavatory accommodation, 363 
Lichen urticatus^ 71 
Lighting of the classroom, 349 

„ artificial, 351 

„ indirect method, 353 
Local Sanitary Authority, co-operation with Local Education 

Authority, 382 
London treatment scheme, 185 
Louse, body, 71 
„ head, 72 
Love, Dr. James Kerr, classification of deaf-mutes, 128 
Lupus, 73 

Macdonald, Dr. Margaret, on eyesight of infants, 33 
Mackenzie, Dr. W. Leslie, Medical Inspection of School Children^ 

28 
Macmillan, Miss Margaret, on camp schools, 270 

„ „ „ on school baths, 227 

„ „ „ on education of the infant, 165 

Malnutrition, 20 

„ and tuberculosis, 22 

Mannheim, schools for backward children at, 90 
Marginal blepharitis, treatment of, 190 
Measles, 147, 283 

„ class closure in, 285 

„ disinfection for, 286 

„ duration of infection, 291 

„ exclusion of contacts, 291 

„ hospital treatment for, 293 

„ incubation period, 283 

„ methods of spread, 284 

„ notification of, 290 

„ nursing assistance in, 292 

„ prevention of, 288 

„ school closure in, 285 
Mechanical ventilation, 337 

„ „ advantages and disadvantages, 340 

„ „ supply of fresh air, 337 

„ „ removal of foul air, 342 

Medical inspection, accommodation in schools for, 364 

„ „ administrative difficulties, 373 

„ „ character and degree of, 10 



422 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

Medical inspection, history abroad, 3 

„ „ „ in England, 5 

„ „ in relation to age of school attendance of 

infants, 149 
„ „ objects, 9 

,, „ schedule of, 376 

Medical supervision of children above school age, 13, 277 
,, „ „ under school age, 13, 167 

Meningitis, epidemic cerebro-spinal {see Cerebro-spinal fever) 
Mental deficiency, 93 

,, „ causation of, 95 

„ „ diagnosis of, 98 

,) „ regulations of Board of Education as to noti- 

fication, 404 
„ „ tests for, 105 

Mental Deficiency Act, 191 3, 404 
Mentally deficient children, 93-113 

), ,} „ after care reports on, 1 1 1 

)} » „ day special schools for, 107 

I) ,) „ Dr. Shuttleworth and Potts on, 93 

), „ „ numbers of, 95 

)) ), „ residential homes for, 93, no, III 

Middle-ear disease {see Ear discharge) 
Ministry of Public Health, 15 

Moral characteristics of feeble-minded children, 104 
„ imbeciles, definition of, 94 
„ Dr. James Kerr on, 92 
Mouth breathing, 48 
Mumps, 316 

Murphy, Sir Shirley, re spread of scarlet fever, 300 
Myopes, high, 125 
Myopia, 37 

Nasal discharge and adenoids, 48 
Natural system of ventilation, 344 

„ „ „ requirements for satisfactory, 344 

" Nervous " children, 83 
Neuropathic families, 97 
Newman, Sir George, on child mortality, 168 
New York, Division of Child Hygiene, 14 
Nurse, school, duties of, 200, 384 
Nursery School, 157 

„ „ Consultative Committee of Board of Education 

on, 158 
Nutrition, 19 

Open-air classroom, 268 
„ education, 247 

Open-air Day Recovery School, 84, 221, 248 



i 



INDEX 423 

Open-air Day Recovery School, at Charlottenburg, 249 

„ „ „ bathing arrangements, 261 

„ „ „ children suitable for, 199, 200, 









257 


)) 


JJ 


JJ 


clothing of the children, 260 


)) 


5> 


JJ 


cost of, 267 


)) 


JJ 


JJ 


curriculum, 255 


» 


Jl 


JJ 


duration of stay of children, 
258 


») 


JJ 


JJ 


effect on chest girth, 265 


J) 


JJ 


}) 


„ nutrition, 263 


JJ 


JJ 


»» 


„ proportion of haemoglo- 
bin in the blood, 264 


» 


JJ 


J) 


equipment of, 253 


)> 


JJ 


JJ 


history of, 248 


» 


JJ 


J) 


in England, 250 


» 


JJ 


JJ 


physical exercises and games, 

261 
provision of meals for the chil- 


» 


JJ 


JJ 








dren, report of Education 








Committee of the London 








County Council, 259 


)) 


)) 


)j 


results of, educational, 266 


)) 


JJ 


JJ 


„ physical, 262 


>} 


JJ 


JJ 


site and surroundings, 251 


JJ 


JJ 


»j 


size of, 254 


J) 


JJ 


»j 


staffing of, 254 


JJ 


JJ 


JJ 


the school buildings, 251 


Open-air Residential Recovery School, 269 


Ophthalmia 


neo-natorum, 


44, 66, 


122 


Otorrhea {see Ear discharge) 





Palgrave, Dr., on malnutrition, 24 
Partially blind, 125, 127 

„ deaf, 128 
Pavilion type of school, 331 

„ „ „ Dr. Barwise and Mr. Widdows on, 329 

„ „ „ Dr. G. Reid on, 329 

Pediculus capitis {see Head louse) 

,, corporis {see Body louse) 
Physical deficiency, causation of, 136 

„ ,, prevention of, 137 

„ exercises, music in connection with, 238 

), „ physical and education effects of, 236 

» „ „ condition of child receiving, 242 

„ „ place where taken, 240 

„ „ superintendents of, 240 

, „ syllabus of the Board of Education, 236, 387 

, „ systems of, 233 



424 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

Physical exercises, the teacher and, 240 

Physical defects among school children, extent of, 17 

Physically defective children, 135 

„ „ „ education of, 138 

„ „ „ feeble-minded, 140 

Play centres, 245 
Playground centres, 365 

„ „ vacation, 245 

„ classes, 268 

„ movement, 243 
Pinchin, Dr. Scott, on heights and weights of London elementary 

school children, 30 
Pityriasis alba^ 72 

Poliomyelitis {see Infantile paralysis) 
Pope, Mr. S., on employed school children in Devonshire, 

273 
Potts, Dr. W. A., on " Alcohol and Mental Deficiency," 96 
Provision of Meals Acts, 204 
Psoriasis, 75 

PubHc Health Medical Service, 15 
Pulex irritans {see Flea) 

Reid, Dr. George, on " Planning of Schools," 329 
Remedial physical exercises, 197, 241 
Residential homes for mentally defective, no, in 

„ Open-Air Recovery School, 269 

„ schools for blind children, 121 

„ „ deaf children, 130 

„ „ epileptic children, 115 

„ „ physically defective children, 138 

Rest for infants, 153, 156, 161 
Rhinolaha, 135' 
Rickets and anaemia, 67 

„ „ treatment of, 69, 199 

Ringworm, 73 

„ treatment of, 187 

Riviere, Dr. Clive, on school journeys, 271 
Rose, Dr. Frederick, on open-air schools, 249 

„ „ on shower baths, 225 

Rowntree, Seebohm, on cost of food, 219 
Rubella {see German measles) 

St. Vitus' Dance {see Chorea) 
Sanatoria for tuberculous children, 199 
Sandlebridge colony for the feeble-minded, 112 
Sanitary Authority, Local, co-operation with Local Education 
Authority, 382 
„ conveniences, 363 



INDEX 425 

Scabies, 71 

„ treatment of, 187 
Scarlet fever, 148, 295 

,, „ disinfection for, 305 

„ „ duration of infection, 306 

„ „ exclusion of contacts, 306 

„ „ incubation period, 295 

„ „ influence of exodus of children from London during 

holidays on (Dr. James Kerr), 300 

„ „ „ holidays on (Dr. Laetitia Fairfield), 300 

„ „ „ „ (Sir Shirley Murphy), 300 

„ „ „ Saturday and Sunday on spread of, 301 

„ „ „ school on spread of, 302 

„ „ methods of spreading, 297 

„ „ prevention of, 304 

School attendance and the school clinic, 179 

„ baths, 223 

„ building, the, 326 

„ „ central-hall type of, 329 

„ „ Dr. George Reid on, 329 

„ „ Dr. S. Barwise and Mr. Widdows on, 329 

„ „ essential requirements of, 328 

„ „ pavilion type of, 331 

„ „ planning of, 328 

„ children, classification of, 81 

„ clinic, 175, 385 

„ „ dental, 194 

„ „ equipment of, 179 

„ „ medical staff of, 182 

„ „ special advantages of, 177 

„ hygiene and public health, 8, 14 

„ journeys, 270 

„ meals {see Feeding of school children) 

„ medical officer, duties of, 379 

„ Medical Service, 9 

„ nurse, duties of, 200, 384 
Schools for mothers, 168 

Scurfield, Dr., on the spread of scarlet fever, 301 
Seborrhea, 72 
Semi-blind, 125 
Semi-deaf, 129 
Sewing and eyesight, 38 

„ inadvisable for infants, 160 
Shower baths, 224 

„ report on, by Dr. James Kerr and Dr. F. Rose, for 

the London County Council, 225 
Shrubshall, Dr. F. C, and stigmata, loi 

Shuttleworth, Dr., and Dr. W. Potts, Mentally Deficient Children^ 93 
Site, school, 326 



426 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

Skin, diseases of, 70 

„ „ treatment of, 186 

Sleep, 79 
Smallpox, 321 
Snellen's Test Type, 33 

„ „ blind, 121 

„ „ deaf, 130 

Special schools for mentally defective, 107 

„ „ physically defective, 138 

Spectacles,. provision of, 190, 384 

„ repair of, 191 

Speech defects, 135 

„ „ in children with adenoids, 49 

„ „ „ „ rickets, 68 

„ „ in feeble-minded children, 102 

Spotted fever {see Cerebro-spinal Fever) 
Spratling, Dr. Wm. P., on age of onset of epilepsy, 117 
Squint, 41 

„ treatment of, 191 
Squire, Dr. J. E., on the extent of pulmonary tuberculosis in 

London school children, 63 
Stammering, 133 
Stigmata of degeneration, 100 

„ „ „ Dr. F. C. Shrubshall on, loi 

Strabismus {see Squint) 
Street trading and children, 275 
Stuttering, 133 
Stye, 44 

Suitable employment in relation to physical defect, 276 
Swimming bath, 226 

„ „ arrangements for children attending, 227 

„ „ difficulties and objections, 228 

Syllabus of physical exercises issued by the Board of Education, 
236, 387 
,, training in hygiene of elementary school teachers, 392 

Syphilis, 65 

„ and blindness, 66 
„ and deafness, 66, 132 
„ and mental deficiency, 96 

Teacher and hygiene, 322 

„ „ physical exercises, 240 

„ „ school meals, 208, 216, 217 

Teacher's room, 364 
Teeth, defective, 52 

„ „ causation of, 56 

„ „ influence on general health, 53 

„ „ treatment of, 194 



INDEX 427 

Teeth, defective, treatment of, at Cambridge, 195 

„ Hutchinsonian, 66 
Temperature of classrooms, 349 
Test Type, Snellen's, ^3 
Tests for mental deficiency, 105 
Text-books and eyesight, 38 
Thomas, Dr. C. J., on employed urban school children, 272 

„ „ „ malnutrition and tuberculosis, 24 

„ „ „ measles, 285, 286 

„ „ „ word-blind and word-deaf children, 91 

Tooth-brush clubs, 197 
Trachoma, 44 

Trade schools for crippled children, 138 
Treatment of school children, 170 
„ agencies for, 172 

„ of general physical condition, 171 

„ London scheme for, 185 

„ of specific ailments and diseases, 172 

„ requirements for efficient, 173 

Tredgold, Dr. A. F., Mental Deficiency^ 93 
Tuberculosis, abdominal, 64 

„ and cripples, 136 

„ and deafness, 132 

„ and malnutrition, 22 

„ pulmonary, 61 

„ frequency of, 63 

„ of bones and joints, 64, 136, 137 

„ of glands, 64 

,, treatment of, 198 

Typhoid fever, 318 



Urinals, 363 

Vacation Playground Centres, 245 

,, Schools, 245 

Vaccination, 321 
Ventilation of school building, 336 

„ arrangement of windows, 337 

„ mechanical, 337 

M )j by removal of foul air, 342 

„ „ „ supply of fresh air, 337 

„ methods of, 336 

,, natural system of, 344 

Verminous children, cleansing of (Section 122 of Children Act, 
1908), 397 

„ conditions, i8 

„ treatment of, 189 



428 THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 

Warming of the school, 347 

Warner, Dr. Francis, Physical and Mental Condition of School 

Children^ 10 1 
Wasserman test, 96 
Weight and height, 24 

„ „ determining conditions of, 27. 

„ „ of good^ medium^ and poor elementary school 

children, 30 

„ „ relation of, 27 

„ „ three classes of schoolboys, 29 

„ „ „ schoolgirls, 30 

„ ,, value of observations, 24 

Weights, carrying of, by children, 274 
Whitelegge, Dr. Arthur, on spread of scarlet fever, 301 
Whooping cough, 148, 314 

„ „ duration of infection, 316 

„ „ exclusion of contacts, 316 

„ „ hospital provision for, 316 

„ „ method of spreading, 315 

„ „ notification of, 316 

„ „ school closure, 315 

Widdows, Mr. G. H., and planning of schools, 329, 354, 356 
Williams, Dr. R. P., on epilepsy among Sheffield school children, 

116 
Word-blindness, 91 
Word-deafness, 91 

X-Ray treatment of ringworm, 188 

Yearsley, Mr., on deaf children, 66 
„ „ causes of deafness, 131 



Printed hy Morrison & Gibb Limited, Edinburgh 



Messrs. Methuen's 
Complete Educational 

Catalogue . . . . 

CONTENTS 

PAGE 

ART ....... 3 

CIVICS . . . . . . . 3 

COMMERCE ...... 3 

DIVINITY . . . . . . 4 

DOMESTIC SCIENCE ..... S 

ENGLISH ...... 6 

FRENCH ...... lO 

GENERAL INFORMATION .... 13 

GEOGRAPHY ...... I4 

GERMAN ..... ^ 15 

GREEK ....... 17 

HISTORY ...... 18 

LATIN ....... 26 

MATHEMATICS ...... 30 

SCIENCE ...... 32 

TECHNOLOGY ..... 42 

SERIES OF EDUCATIONAL WORKS ... 43 



Messrs. Methuen will be glad to send their 
COMPLETE Illustrated Catalogue or Par- 
ticulars OF THEIR Books on any subject to 
ANY Address, Post Free, on application 



METHUEN & CO. LTD., 36 ESSEX STREET, W.C. 

LONDON 

1916 



NOTE 

TV /[ESSRS. METHUEN will be happy to consider 
-^'-■■applications for Specimen Copies of any of the 
books in this list from Heads of Schools. Specimen 
Copies of many of their School Books are supplied gratis, 
but a charge must be made in all cases for volumes of 
Examination Papers and the higher priced books. 
Specimen Copies of Keys are not given. In writing 
please state the probable number of copies required if 
the book be adopted. 

A copy of any book in this List can be seen at Messrs. 
Methuen's offices, 36 Essex Street, Strand, W.C., and 
most of them may be consulted at the Library of The 
Teachers' Guild, 74 Gower Street, W.C, at the Library 
of the College of Preceptors, Bloomsbury Square, W.C, 
and the Teachers' Libraries at the Universities. 



MESSRS. METHUEN'S 
EDUCATIONAL BOOKS 

* Books marked with an asterisk are in the Press, 



ART 

Ancient and Mediaeval Art. A Short History. By Margaret H. 
BuLLEY. With 40 IHustrations and a Chart. Crown 8vo, 5s. net. 

This book, which is the first of its kind, contains thirteen lessons on 
ancient, classic, and mediaeval art ; an introduction which discusses the 
methods and the necessity of teaching the history of art in schools and 
homes ; and a chart illustrating the great art periods of the world. The 
first part of each lesson consists of elementary instruction in the form of a 
story, suitable for children from eight to thirteen years, and the second part 
of a summary of the art of the same period for use in preparing lessons for 
older classes. Although the book is intended primarily for schools, it should 
be found useful by all who want a short account of the growth and develop- 
ment of art. 

CIVICS 

Home and State : An Introduction to the Study of Economics and 
Civics. By Susan Cunnington, Wiston's School, Brighton, Author 
of "The Story of Arithmetic," etc. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. 

This book is for the Upper Forms in schools, and gives in simple language 
an account of the fundamental principles which underlie our modern 
economic and political conditions. Throughout, the present has been 
connected with the past, by noting the beginnings of corporate life and 
effort, and by tracing the development of political institutions. 

The Rights and Duties of the English Citizen. By H. E. Malden, 
M.A. Ninth Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. 

A reader describing in outline the Imperial and Local Government of 
England. 

A London Reader for Yoiing Citizens. By F. W. G. Foat, D.Litt., 
M.A., Lecturer in History and English at the City of London College, 
Assistant Master at the City of London School. With 4 Illustrations 
in Colour, 8 Maps, and 17 other Illustrations. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. 

In fifty short sections, each forming a complete "lesson," the story of 
London is told. The treatment is that of the interesting class-lecture. 

COMMERCE 

The Economics of Commerce. By H. de B. Gibbins, Litt.D., M.A. 
Second Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. \_Commercia I Series. 

This book pre'^ents in a simple, po]3ular, and elementary way the main 
economic principles which underlie modern commerce. 
Commercial Law. By W. Douglas Edwards. Second Edition, 
Revised. Crown 8vo, 2s. {Cx>7nmercial Series. 

A comprehensive outline of the Commercial Law of England adapted 
for students. As far as possible technical plirascology has been avoided, 
and the book has not been burdened with legal decisions. 
A Primer of Business. By S. Jackson, M.A. Fourth Edition, 
Revised and Enlarged. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. {^Commercial Series. 

A sketch in a readable yet exact form of the salient points in the theory 
and practice of Modern Commerce. 
An Entrance Gmde to Professions and Business. By H. Jones. 
With a Preface by H. de B. Gipblns, D.Litt., M.A. Crown 8vo, 
IS. 6d. {Commercial Series. 

This book deals with three professions and a large number of trades, and 
shows the qualities necessary to success in each. 



4 MESSRS. METHUEN'S 

Precis "Writing and Office Correspondence. By E. E. Whitfield, 
M.A. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. [Commercial Sei-ies. 

The subjects dealt with here are Business Correspondence in General 
Circulars and Advertisements, Sale and Purchase, Carrying Trade, Trans- 
mission of Money, Precis, Civil Service Prdcis, Commercial Precis, Applica- 
tion of Precis to Journalism, Application of Precis to Foreign Languages. 
Commercial Examination Papers. By H. de B. Gibbins, Litt.D., 
M.A. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. [Commercial Series. 

A volume of Examination Papers on Commercial Geography, Commercial 
History, Book-keeping, Business and Office Work, Commercial French, and 
Commercial German. 
For other books on Commerce, see also under ^'French" " German" 
^'Geography," ''History" "Mathematics" 

DIVINITY 

The First Book of Kings. Edited by A. E. Rubie, D.D., Head- 
master of Eltham College. With 4 Maps. Crown 8vo, 2s. 

[Junior School Books. 

The Gospel according to St. Matthew. Edited by E. W. South, 
M.A. With 3 Maps. Crown Svo, is. 6d. [Junior School Books. 

The Gospel according to St. Mark. Edited by A. E. Rubie, D.D. 
With 3 Maps. Second Edition. Cr. Svo, is. 6d. [Junior School Books. 

The Gospel according to St. Luke. Edited by Canon W. William- 
son, B.A. With 3 Maps. Crown Svo, 2s. [Junior School Books. 

The Acts of the Apostles. Edited by A. E. Rubie, D.D. With 3 
Maps. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 2s. [Junior School Books. 

These editions are designed primarily for those preparing for junior ex- 
aminations such as the Junior Locals, and those of the Joint Board. At the 
same time they will also prove useful for those preparing for higher examina- 
tions, such as the Higher Certificate. The editors have tried to make the 
introduction and notes as stimulating as possible, and to avoid mere "cram." 

The Story of the Hebrew Patriarchs. By Mrs. Frederic Green. 
Crown Svo, is. 6d. net. 

The purpose of this little book is to help our girls and boys to feel that 
the Old Testament tells of real men and women, like ourselves: that the 
human race in all ages and in all nations is one : that these old Bible charac- 
ters, whether heroes or ordinary men and women, were of like passions as 
ourselves. 

The Boys' Prayer Book. Compiled by Alex. Devine, Headmaster 
of Clayesmore School, Winchester. Medium i6mo, is. 6d. net. 

A collection of prayers, prefaced by appropriate texts for almost all the 
necessities of school life. 

Junior Scripture Examination Papers: Old Testament. By 
Rev. S. A. P. Kermode and Canon W. Williamson. Fcap. Svo, 
IS. [Junior Examination Series. 

Junior Scripture Examination Papers. New Testament. By A. 
G. Walpole-Sayer and Canon W. Williamson. Fcap. Svo, is. 

[Junior Examination Series. 
These examination papers, which will be found useful in checking pro- 
gress at any stage, and for recapitulation just before the end of term or at 
the approach of an examination, are based very largely upon the kind of 
questions candidates have had in the past, and may be used either for written 
or viva voce answers. 

A Primer of the Bible. By W. H. Bennett, M.A., Professor of Old 
Testament Exegesis at New and Hackney Colleges, London. With a 
concise Bibliography. Fifth Edition. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d. net. 

This Primer sketches the history of the books which make up the Bible in 



I 



LIST OF EDUCATIONAL BOOKS 5 

the light of recent criticism. It gives an account of their character, origin, 
and composition, as far as possible in chronological order, with special 
reference to their relations to one another, and to the history of Israel and 
the Church. 

Old Testament History for Use in Schools. By the Rev. W. F. 
BURNSIDE, M.A., Headmaster of St. Edmund's School, Canterbury. 
Seventh Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. net. 

A textbook for higher forms written in the belief that it is possible with all 
reverence to tradition to make the Old Testament a real living force in 
religious education. 

Stories from the Old Testament. By E. M. Wilmot-Buxton, 
F.R.Hist.S. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. ^Beginners Books. 
These stories have been told in the simple and dignified words of the Bible, 
with brief explanations where necessary, and selected so as to show the con- 
tinuity of the Divine dealings with the Hebrew people in preparation for the 
revelation of the New Testament. 

An attempt has been made to avoid the chief difficulty met with in teaching 
the Old Testament to children, by basing these stories on the firm founda- 
tion of spiritual rather than literal inspiration. It is hoped that by showing 
that they are concerned rather with values than with supernatural history, 
they may never have to be unlearnt or unduly modified in later years. 

Stories from the New Testament. By E. M. Wilmot-Buxton, 
F.R.Hist.S. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. {^Beginner' s Books. 

A companion volume to "Stories from the Old Testament," by the 
same author. 

The Student's Prayer Book. The Text of Morning and Evening 
Prayer and Litany. By W. H. Flecker, M.A., D.C.L., Head- 
master of the Dean Close School, Cheltenham. With Notes. Crown 
Svo, 2s. 6d. 

An edition arranged for the Local Examinations. The Notes are at the foot 
of the page, and so arranged that they are on the same page as the text to which 
they refer, thus avoiding the necessity of constantly turning over the pages. 

An English Church History for Children. By Mary E. Shipley. 
With a Preface by William E. Collins, D.D., late Bishop of Gibraltar. 
Three Volumes, crown Svo, 2s. 6d. net each. 

Vol. I., A.D. 597-1066, with 12 Illustrations and 3 Maps. 

Second Edition. 
Vol. II., A.D. 1066-1500, with 12 Illustrations and i Map. 
Vol. HI., A.D. 1500-1911, with a Map and 12 Illustrations. 
"This instructive little book is very well written, and furnished with a 
good index, and rendered attractive by beautiful illustrations." — Record. 

DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

*A Manual of Cookery on Scientific Lines. By M. Dyer (King's 
College for Women). Crown Svo, 2s. 6d. 

This book is intended for use in secondary school courses in cookery, 
where it is desired to correlate domestic with scientific work. The first part 
deals with the theoretical side of the subject and the practical work to be 
done in the laboratory ; the second part is a collection of recipes classified 
on the same basis as in the first section. 

The Little Housewife. By A. M. Phillips and C. L. Dean. Crown 
Svo, IS. 6d. 

This book is intended to serve as a Reader on domestic science for girls 
in Elementary and Secondary Schools. To be used as an adjunct to the 
practical work of a centre, it is also adapted to the requirements of schools 
where no practical work is done. It supplies the reasons, and simple 
scientific explanations, of the operations involved in housecraft generally. 



6 MESSRS. METHUEN'S 

Millinery, Theoretical and Practical. By Clare Hill. With 
numerous Diagrams. Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 

[ Textbooks of Technology. 
A treatise, concise and simple, containing all required for the City and 
Guilds of London Examination, and providing a suitable course for evening 
classes. 

Instruction in Cookery. By A. P. Thompson, Instructress to the 
London County Council. With lo Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. 

[Textbooks of Technology. 
The most suitable form of syllabus and the best practical examples for 
demonstration are discussed at some length. 

How to make a Dress. By J. A. E. Wood. With numerous 
Diagrams. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. 

[ Textbooks of Technology. 
A short textbook based on the syllabus of the City and Guilds of London 
Institute Examination. 

ENGLISH 

Grammar, Dictation, and Composition 

A First Course in English. By W. S. Beard. Crown Svo, is. 6d. 

[Beginner's Books, 
This book is a working class-book in English for the Lower Forms of 
Secondary Schools and pupils in Primary Schools. First, it provides, side 
by side, a progressive course in analysis and elementary composition ; the 
use of words and their relation to each other in sentences. The exercises 
for practice are very numerous, varied, and carefully graduated ; many 
exercises are adapted for oral composition. Second, it provides a textbook 
of the leading principles of grammar — accidence and elementary syntax — 
which will enable young pupils to apply these principles intelligently, step 
by step, to practical work in analysis and parsing. The book is specially 
suitable as an introductory course to "A Junior English Grammar," by 
W. Williamson. Sets of Examination Quesdons are included which will 
furnish useful preparation for the Oxford and Cambridge Preliminary and 
the College of Preceptors' Examinations ; also for pupils in Primary Schools 
preparing for County Council Scholarships. 

A Junior English Grammar. By Canon W. Williamson, B.A. 
With numerous passages for Parsing and Analysis, and a chapter on 
Essay Writing. Fifth Edition. Crown Svo, 2s. [Junior School Books. 
In this book the author, while following the lines usually adopted, restates 
many of the Definitions, reducing their number as far as possible. He en- 
deavours to simplify the classification of the parts of speech, and pays 
considerable attention to the Gerund. To give freshness and a sense of 
reality to the subject, the examples in illustration of rules are taken from the 
everyday life of young people. 

Junior English. By F. J. Rahtz, M.A., B.Sc, Senior Lecturer at 
Merchant Venturers' Technical College, Bristol. Twelfth Edition. 
Crown Svo, is. 6d. 

This book is intended for the Lower Forms of Secondary Schools. It 
deals with Grammar, the Construction of Phrase and Sentence, Analysis, 
Parsing, Expansion, Condensation, Composition, and Paraphrasing, and 
many other Exercises in the use of English. The Questions and Exercises 
are numerous and varied. 

Higher English. By F. J. Rahtz, M.A., B.Sc. Tenth Edition. 
Crown Svo, 3s. 6d. 

This book provides a much-needed course in the study of modern English, 
suitable for pupils in the Upper Forms of Secondary Schools. Examination 
Papers set recently at London University are added. 



LIST OF EDUCATIONAL BOOKS 7 

English. Composition. By F. J. Rahtz, M.A., B.Sc, Crown Svo, 
IS. 6d. 

This work is intended for pupils of Secondai y Schools and private students. 
It supplies a progressive course in English composition, embracing not only 
essays and letters, but also other important and useful work in writing 
English. Numerous and varied exercises are appended to each chapter, 
while questions and shorter exercises, many of which may be used orally, 
are introduced in the text. The importance of connecting the student's 
composition with his reading has been borne in mind throughout. 

English Composition from Models. By C. Rooney, B.A., LL.B. 
Crown Svo, 2s. 6d. 

This book is an attempt to apply the Direct Method to the teaching of 
English Composition. The models range from Bacon to Stevenson, and the 
ext'acts, which have been carefully selected, are calculated to interest senior 
students. Emphasis is laid on the fact that to write we must read, and that 
to read with profit we must be interested. ' ' All literary skill is based upon 
imitation." The book deals in an interesting way with certain inherent 
difficulties, and has useful hj^ts as to how the literary taste of young people 
may be developed and guided. It is the work of a practical teacher, 

A Class-Book of Easy Dictation and Spelling. Selected by Canon 
W. Williamson, B.A. Eleventh Edition. Fcap. Svo, is. 

\^Beginner s Books. 
This book contains many interesting passages from English classics chosen 
on account of the large number of everyday words which they contain. 

A Class-Book of Dictation Passages. Selected by Canon W. 
Williamson, B.A. Nineteenth Edition. Crown Svo, is. 6d. 

{Jttnior School Books. 
i6o passages chosen from a wide field of modern literature on account of 
the large number of words they contain. 

Junior English Examination Papers. By Canon W. Williamson, 

B.A. Second Edition. Fcap. Svo, is. \_ Junior Examination Series. 

This book contains Seventy-two Papers of Ten Questions each, and will 

be found to meet the requirements of all the Examinations in English usually 

taken in Schools up to the " Senior Locals." 



Literature 

English Literature for Schools. By E. E. Firth, History Mistress 
at the High School, Croydon, Author of "A First History of Greece." 
With 4 Maps. Second Edition. Cr. Svo, 2s. 6d. \^ Junior School Books. 
This excellent Introduction to English Literature has five special 
features : — (i) By comparison the style and importance of the variouswriters 
are shown. (2) Many illustrations of their works help the reader to a know- 
ledge of the great writers. (3) Difficulties are explained by footnotes. {4) 
Short summaries of the chief historical events are given with explanations of 
the political, social, and religious tendencies of the times. Thus the reader 
realises that all great writers are representative of their generation. {5) 
Useful Maps have been included, which show the local environment of the 
great writers. 

At the end of each chapter are to be found summaries, sets of questions, 
and also suggestions for further reading. 

A Short Story of English Literature. By Emma S. Mellows. 
Crown Svo, 3s. 6d. 

The story of the beginning and growth of English literature told in a very 
simple form for schools and the home. In addition to describing the 
literature and writers, some space is given to describing the character of the 
age under consideration. 



8 MESSRS. METHUEN'S 

English Literature. By F. J. Rahtz, M.A., B.Sc. Crown Svo, 
2s, 6d. 

This work is suitable for pupils in the Upper Forms of Secondary Schools, 
and also for older students. Its aim is to review in a general but critical 
manner the groundwork of English Literature. Special attention has 
therefore been paid to the course of the development of our literature ; 
the general characteristics of each period and the external influences 
bearing upon it are carefully explained. The work and style of the greater 
authors are discussed in some detail, and brief illustrative extracts from 
their works are given ; lesser authors are treated in due proportion. 
Questions, many of which are suggestive and require further thought and 
study, are appended to each chapter. 

The book will be found useful for such examinations as the Cambridge 
Senior Local and London Matriculation, and will form an excellent 
foundation for more advanced examinations. 

Selections from English Literature. Vol. I. (i 350-1 700). By F. J. 
Rahtz, M.A., B.Sc. Crown Svo, 2s. 

It is important for the student to have a first hand acquaintance with 
the authors themselves beyond what may be obtained from the brief 
extracts given in the English Literature above described. For this purpose 
two volumes of Selections, uniform with the "English Literature," have 
been prepared. The present volume covers the period from 1350 to 1700. 
Extracts are given from prose, poetry, and the drama. In dealing with 
verse, complete poems have been given where space would permit ; and 
in the case of the drama, prose, and longer poems, the extracts are such 
as should be intelligible by themselves or with the aid of brief prefatory notes. 
As a rule, the space devoted to an author is in proportion to his importance. 

Selections from English Literature. Vol. II. (i 700-1900). By 
H. N. Asm AN, M.A., B.D., Second Master of Owen's School, 
Islington. Crown Svo, 2s. 

This is the second of two volumes of selections that have been prepared 
for use with " English Literature," by F. J. Rahtz, M.A., B.Sc. 

The period covered is 1700 to the present day. The extracts from prose, 
poetry, and drama have been chosen to illustrate the various aspects of the 
work of the leading authors, and the general development of the literature 
of the period. Care has been taken that the selections should all be 
thoroughly worth studying. 

The Story of Milton's "Paradise Lost." Narrated for the most 
part in the actual words of the Poet. Arranged by George Carter, 
M.A., Headmaster of New College School, Oxford. Crown Svo, is. 6d. 
The main feature of this book is that the story of "Paradise Lost" is 
narrated for the most part in the actual words of the poet, but where this 
was found to be impracticable, short original passages are introduced to 
preserve the continuity of the story. Most of the classical and other 
allusions, which contribute little or nothing to the development of the story, 
are omitted. Concise footnotes are added to explain difificult or obsolete 
words. 

The book is prefaced with a "Short Sketch of the Life and Works of 
Milton," and a Synopsis of " Paradise Lost" is also added. 



Poetry 



An Easy Poetry Book. Selected and Arranged by Canon W. William- 
son, B.A. Third Edition. Crown Svo, is. {Beginner s Books, 
A little book for pupils of twelve or thereabouts. It is believed that all 
the selections are good as poetry, healthy and invigorating in thought, and 
suited to the capacity of beginners. 

Ballads of the Brave: Poems of Chivalry, Enterprise, Courage, and 
Constartcy. From the Earliest Times to the Present Day. By 
F. Langbridge, M.A., D.Litt., Canon of St. Munchin's, St. Mary's 



LIST OF EDUCATIONAL BOOKS 9 

Cathedral, Limerick. Fifth Edition, Revised and Reclassified, with 
additional Notes. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. net. 

In this new edition Canon Langbridge has replaced all outworn matter by 
new poems, carrying the story and the interest down to the present hour. 
In addition to the best chivalric verse of Scott, Byron, Campbell, Keats, 
Tennyson, Browning, Macaulay, Aytoun, Kingsley, William Morris, 
Sir F. Hastings Doyle, the edition includes many copyright poems in praise 
of gallant thought or gallant deeds by the Poet Laureate, Watts-Dunton, 
George Barlow, Conan Doyle, Owen Seaman, Kipling, Newbolt, Noyes. 
'It is a book for all who love and are proud of England, for all who love 
chivalry, adventure, and gallant pastime ; pre-eminently, it is a book for 
high-spirited boys. It begins with the "Siege of Troy" and ends with a 
"Song of Federation," a call to the Boy Scouts, and England's claim to 
wield for ever "The Sceptre of the Sea." Careful notes, historical, critical, 
philological, are given separately from the text. 



Readers 



The Rose Reader. By Edward Rose. With numerous Illustrations, 
some of which are Coloured. In Four Parts. Parts I. and II., 
6d. each ; Part III., 8d. ; Part IV., lod. Introduction for the Teacher 
separately, 6d. 

A reader on a new and original plan. The distinctive feature of this book is the 
entire avoidance of irregularly-spelt words until the pupil has mastered reading. 

Tommy Smith's Animals. By Edmund Selous. With 8 Illus- 
trations by G. W. Ord. Fourteenth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, is. 6d. 

This new and charming continuous reader, besides inculcating kindness 
to animals, conveys much natural hktory information. The animals dealt 
with are — frog, toad, rook, rat, hare, grass-snake, adder, peewit, mole, 
woodpigeon, squirrel, barn-owl. 

An edition in a superior binding, suitable for prizes, is also issued at 2s. 6d. 

Tommy Smith's Other Animals. By Edmund Selous. With 12 
Illustrations by Augusta Guest. Seventh Edition. Fcap. 8vo, is. 6d. 

Uniform with the above. The animals dealt with are — rabbit, nightjar, 
weasel, blackbird, thrush, hedgehog, dabchick, moorhen, woodpecker, fox, 
cuckoo, watervole. 

An edition in a superior binding, suitable for prizes, is also issued at 2s. 6d. 

Health Readings for Elementary Schools. By C. J. Thomas, 
M.B., B.Sc, D.P.H., University Scholar in Medicine, Member of the 
Examining Board of the Royal Sanitary Institute. Fourth Edition. 
Crown 8vo, is. 6d. 

This volume has been written in accordance with the recommendations of 
the Board of Education. It treats the subject in a simple way as a part 
of Nature Study, and deals with questions of health from the point of view 
of the natiu-al interests of the child in his surroundings. 

A Health and Temperance Reader. By H. Major, B.A., B.Sc, 
Inspector to the Leicester Education Committee. Crown 8vo, is. 

In diction and style suitable for children in Standards V., VI., and VII. 
in Elementary Schools. 
The Baring-Gould Selection Reader. By S. Baring-Gould, M.A. 
Arranged by G. H. Rose. With 15 Illustrations and a Map. Crown 
8vo, IS. 6d. 
The Baring-Gould Continuous Reader. By S. Baring-Gould, 
M.A. Arranged by G. H. Rose. With 5 Illustrations and a Map. 
Crown 8vo, is. 6d. 

Two readers for Upper Standards, from the novels and topographical 
works of Mr. Baring-Gould. 
A London Reader for Young Citizens. [See under *' Civics.'' 

2 



lo • MESSRS. METHUEN'S 

For further Readers see Messrs. Methuen's Stories, in the following Series, 
"Stories from the Histories," "Stories from Old Romance," "Stories from 
the Great Writers." They cover a wide ground, avoid hackneyed material, and 
aim at a high standard of style and treatment, so that they may be used by 
Secondary Schools and the Upper Standards of Elementary Schools. The 
Volumes are is. 6d. each (with one exception) and include the following : — 

Stories from Ancient History. By E. Bowyer. 

Stories from Modern History. By E. M. Wilmot-Buxton. 

Stories from Roman History. By E. M. Wilmot-Buxton. 

Easy Stories from English History. By E. M. Wilmot-Buxton, is. 

Stories from French History. By Taylor Dyson. 

Tales from Irish History. By Alice Birkhead. 

Stories from Scottish History. By E. M. Wilmot-Buxton. 

Stories from American History. By Alice Birkhead. 

Stories from Old French Romance. By E. M. Wilmot-Buxton. 

Stories from Old Italian Romance. By Susan Cunnington. 

Stories from Old English Romance. By Joyce Pollard. 

Stories from Dickens. By Joyce Cobb. 

Stories from Bnnyan. By Edith L. Elias. 

Stories from Chaucer. By Ada Hales. 

Stories from the Old Testament. By E. M. Wilmot-Buxton. 

Stories from the New Testament. By E. M. Wilmot-Buxton. 

FRENCH 



Grammars, etc. 



Intuitive French. A Year's Course for Beginners. By M. Verdon, 
Modern Language Master at Rotherham Grammar School. Cr. 8vo, 2s. 
This book is intended for children between the ages of twelve and fourteen 
in Secondary Schools. It aims at teaching elementary French according to 
the " New" or " Direct" Method, and follows the hnes of moderate Re- 
formers. It is divided into thirty-six lessons, providing ample material for a 
whole year's work. Each lesson, with the exception of a few made of songs 
and rhymes, consists of a reading piece, which is the r6sum6 of several con- 
versation lessons, drill exercises for oral practice, questions and written 
exercises. The latter form an Introduction to free composition in French. 
The grammar evolved from each piece is systematically given in another 
part of the book. Its vocabulary of about eleven hundred words is simple, 
practical and useful. 

A Junior French Qrammar. By L. A. Sornet and M. J. Acatos, 
Modern Language Masters at King Edward's School, Birmingham. 
Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. {Junior School Books. 

This book comprises a complete course of French Grammar, with 
Exercises and Examination Papers suitable for candidates preparing for the 
Oxford and Cambridge Local and College of Preceptors' Examinations. It 
also includes numerotis Vocabularies and materials for Conversation Lessons. 

Nouvelle Grammaire Frangaise, k I'usage des ecoles Anglaises. By 
J. G. Anderson, B.A., Examiner to London University. Cr. 8vo, 2s. 
A textbook for Middle and Higher Forms, written in French, with the 
exception of a long introduction on Phonetics. Emphasis is laid on points 
where English and French differ. The conjugation of the verb is simplified, 
and there are many other special features. 



LIST OF EDUCATIONAL BOOKS ti 

Exercices de Grammaire Frangaise. By J. G. Anderson, B.A. 

Crown 8vo, is. 6d. 

This book of exercises is primarily intended as a companion volume to 
the " Nouvelle Grammaire Franfaise," but there is no reason why it should 
not be used in conjunction with any grammar. These books cover all the 
ground for the London Matriculation. 

A Jimior French Prose. By R. R. N. Baron, M.A., Modern 
Language Master at Cheltenham Grammar School. Seventh Edition. 
Crown 8vo, 2s. {Junior School Books. 

This book has been written for pupils beginning continuous French Prose. 
It contains : (i) Examples and Rules in Syntax. These are not professedly 
exhaustive, but deal rather with points in which the two languages are seen 
to differ ; and, as they deal with such points occurring in over a hundred 
passages and exercises, it is hoped they may be found sufficiently complete 
for the general purposes at which the book aims. (2) Exercises in every- 
day language, illustrative of the rules. (3) Graduated continuous passages. 

Frencli Prose Composition. By R. R. N. Baron, M.A. Sixth 
Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s, 6d. Key (Second Edition). 3s. net. 

A collection of passages from standard English authors for composition 
in Upper Forms and by Army Candidates ; Notes and Vocabularies are 
provided. 

French and English Parallels. By F. R. M. Fursdon. Fcap. 
Svo, 3s. 6d. net. 

The first part of this volume consists of a selection of French and English 
idiomatical phrases and idioms, and the second of over a thousand examples 
of French and English metaphors. The third section is an interwoven 
sequence of ideas, expressed by means of some of the most beautiful maxims 
and proverbs of both languages. 

Junior French Examination Papers, in Miscellaneous Grammar and 

Idioms. By F. Jacob, M.A., Assistant Master at Felsted School. 

Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo, is. [Junior Examination Series. 

A collection of 72 papers of ten questions each suitable for class teaching 

and revision work for the Local and similar Examinations. 

A Manual of French Commercial Correspondence. By S. E. 
Bally. With Vocabulary. Fourth Edition. Crown Svo, 2s. 

{Commercial Series. 
This book provides the student with materials for French correspondence. 
Almost every paragraph has been taken from actual letters. , 

By A. M, M. Stedman, M.A. 

Steps to French. Eleventh Edition. i8mo, 8d. 

One of the easiest French books in existence. Contains both grammar 

and exercises. 

First French Lessons. Twelfth Edition. Crown Svo, is. 

A short course for beginners written to make a boy's knowledge of Latin 
help his French. 

Easy French Passages for Unseen Translation. Seventh Edition* \ 
Fcap. Svo, IS. 6d. 

Many of the passages have been actually set at the Local, Public School, 
and Naval and Military Examinations. Some of the most charming French 
lyrics are included. 

Easy French Exercises on Elementary Syntax. With Voca- 
bulary. Fourth Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Key, 3s. net. 
These exercises are for pupils who have mastered their accidence and 
require a more advanced book to accompany their syntax. 



12 MESSRS. METHUEN'S 

French Vocabularies for Repetition: Arranged according to Sub- 
jects. Sixteenth Edition. P'cap. 8vo, is. 

A collection of upwards of 2000 words arranged in sets of 12 each, accord- 
ing to the subject. 

French Examination Papers in Miscellaneous Grammar and 
Idioms. Sixteenth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Key (Sixth Edition), 
issued to Tutors and Private Students only, 6s. net. 

These Papers have been compiled for those who have passed beyond the 
Elementary Stages of Grammar. They cover the whole of the ground 
usually taught. 



Texts 



Easy French Rhymes. By Henri Blouet. Illustrated. Second 
Edition. Fcap. 8vo, is. {Beginner's Books. 

This little book, containing the time-honoured English nursery rhymes 
translated into French rhyme, will supply children with a fairly extensive 
and easily acquired vocabulary of French words. The English and French 
versions are given on opposite pages. 

Simplifiecl French Texts 

Edited by T. R. N. Crofts, M.A., 

Headmaster of Royal Masonic School, Bushey. 

This Series, consisting of 16 volumes, provides pupils who have been study- 
ing French about two or three years with simple translation books which they can 
understand, and at the same time complete stories, instead of a succession of 
little anecdotes. It thus makes possible the more rapid reading of a greater 
variety of authors. Vocabularies have been added, in which the chief idioms are 
explained. Each volume is Fcap. 8vo, is. 

L'liiquipage de la Belle-Nivemaise. By Alphonse Daudet. 

Adapted from "La Belle-Nivernaise," by T. R. N. Crofts, M.A. 

Fourth Edition. 
L'Histoire de Pierre et Gamille. By Alfred de Musset. Adapted 

from "Pierre et Camille," by J. B. Patterson, M.A., Modern 

Language Master at Merchant Taylors* School, London. 

M^moires de Cadichon. By Madame de SfecuR. Adapted from 
•* M^moires d'un Ane," by J. F. Rhoades, Modern Language Master at 
Fettes College, Edinburgh. Second Edition. 

L'Histoire d'une Tulipe. By Alexandre Dumas. Adapted from 
" La Tulipe Noire," by T. R. N. Crofts, M.A. Fourth Edition. 

La Bouillie au Miel. By Alexandre Dumas. Adapted from "La 
Bouillie de la Comtesse Berthe," by P. B. Ingham, B.A., Modern 
Language Master at Merchant Taylors' School, London. 

Edmond Dant^s. By Alexandre Dumas. Adapted from " Monte 
Cristo," by M. Ceppi, Head Modern Language Master at King's 
College School, Wimbledon. 

D'Ajaccio k Sainte-H61fene. By Alexandre Dumas. Adapted from 
"Napoleon," by F. W. M. Draper, B.A., Modern Language Master, 
City of London School. 

M. de Beaufort k Vincennes. By Alexandre Dumas. Adapted 
from " Vingt Ans Apres," by P. B. Ingham, B.A. 

Le Docteur Math^us. By Erckmann-Chatrian. Adapted from 
"L'lllustre Docteur Matheus," by W. P. Fuller, M.A., Headmaster 
of the Holborn Estate Grammar School, London. 



LIST OF EDUCATIONAL BOOKS 13 

Le Conscrit de 1813. By Erckmann-Chatrian. Adapted from 
•* L'Histoire d'un Conscrit," by H. RiEU, M.A., Modern Language 
Master at Merchant Taylors' School, London. 

La Bataille de Waterloo. By Erckmann-Chatrian. A Sequel to 

the above. Adapted from "Waterloo," by G. H. EvANS, M.A., 

Modern Language Master at Oundle School. 
Jean Valjean. By Victor Hugo. Adapted from "Les Miserables," 

by F. W. M. Draper, B.A., Modern Language Master at City of 

London School. Second Edition. 
Abdallah. By Edouard Laboulaye. Adapted from "Abdallah, ou 

le trefle a quatre feuilles," by J. A. Wilson. 
Deux Contes. By P. M6rim£e. Adapted from "Mateo Falcone" and 

"Tamango," by J. F. Rhoades. 

La Chanson de Boland. Adapted by H. Rieu, M.A. Second 

Edition. 
Remy, Le Chevrier. By Emile Souvestre. Adapted from "Le 

Chevrier de Lorraine, "by E. E. Chottin, B.-es-L., Modern Language 

Master at St. Laurence College, Ramsgate. 

Advanced French Texts 

Edited by T. R. N. Crofts, M.A., 
Headmaster of Royal Masonic School, Bushey. 

This series aims at supplying translation books for fairly rapid class-reading 
among pupils who have already been through some of the volumes in the 
Simplified Texts, or who have acquired a good working knowledge of elementary 
French. The first volumes are : — 

Bernard de Mergy. By P. M^rim^e. Adapted by P. B. Ingham, 
B.A., Assistant Master at Merchant Taylors' School. Crown 8vo, 2s. 

This is a condensation of Prosper M^rim^e's one historical novel, 
" Chronique du R^gne de Charles IX," considered the best of its type in 
the French language. Passages have been omitted, but no changes have 
been made in the text. 

Ursus et sa Troupe. Adapted from "L'Homme qui Rit," of Victor 
Hugo, by Em. B. Le Francois, French Tutor at Redcliff House, 
Clifton, and Wolsey Hall, Oxford. Crown 8vo, 2s. 

A complete and exciting story, divided into twenty chapters. Each 
chapter becomes a theme for conversation, by means of questions based upon 
it. There is a vocabulary of difficult words and idiomatic expressions. 

GENERAL INFORMATION 

General Knowledge Examination Papers. By A. M. M. 
Stedman, M.A. Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Key (Fifth 
Edition), issued to Tutors and Private Students only, 7s. net. 

[^School Examination Series. 
Compiled to furnish practice for those who are preparing for Scholarships 
at the Public Schools and at the Universities. This edition has been care- 
fully revised and brought up to date by Mr. C. G. Hotting, B.A., and a 
number of new questions have been added. 

Junior General Information Papers. By W. S. Beard. Second 
Edition. Fcap. Svo, is. Key (Second Edition), 3s. 6d. net. 

[Junior Examination Series. 
An easier book on the same lines as Stedman's "General Knowledge 
Examination Papers." It will be found suitable for the Junior Examinations 
and Candidates for County Scholarships. 



14 MESSRS. METHUEN'S 

GEOGRAPHY 

A Systematic Geoi^raphy of the World 

ByG. W. Webb, B.A., 
Master at Owen's School, Islington. 

This series provides for a study of the Geography of the World on logical 
lines as recommended by the Board of Education. It is intended for those who 
have passed beyond the elementary stages of the subject and wish to acquire 
a more detailed and advanced knowledge. Emphasis is placed on the distinctive 
character of the natural regions by a consideration of geological structure and its 
bearing on physical features, and again constant reference is made to the causal 
connection between the facts of physical and political geography. The books 
will be found suitable for use in the Middle and Upper Forms of Secondary 
Schools and for all who wish to prepare for the Oxford and Cambridge Local, 
the London Matriculation, and similar examinations. 

A Systematic Geography of the British Isles. With 13 Diagrams 
and Maps. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, is. 1 ^^ V' 7 

A Systematic Geogrraphy of Europe. With 5 Diagrams and Maps. 
Crown 8vo, is. 

A Systematic Geography of Asia. With 8 Diagrams and Maps. 
Crown 8vo, is. 

A Systematic Geography of America. With 10 Maps and Diagrams. 
Crown 8vo, is. 

A Systematic Geography of Africa, Australia, and Polynesia. 

With Maps and Diagrams. Crown 8vo, is. 



,By Boad and Biver. A Descriptive Geography of the British Isles. 

.'*y By E. M. WiLMOT-BuxTON, F.R.Hist.S. With 12 Illustrations and 
12 Maps. Crown 8vo, 2s. 

Suitable for children in the Lower Forms of all grades of schools. It aims 
at making them familiar with the scenery and most striking features, political, 
historical, and literary, of their land by the natural and interesting process of 
making imaginary journeys through the different districts of these islands. 
Physical geography has been closely connected with political aspects, and 
throughout an appeal has been made to the common sense as well as to the 
imagination of the child. Interesting questions are set at the end of each 
chapter, and the text is fully illustrated by photographs and outline maps. 

The Dominion of Man. Geography in its Human Aspect. By E. 
Protheroe. With 36 Illustrations. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 

2S. 

A bright and readable geographical textbook for teachers and upper 
classes, dealing mainly with the way in which life is affected by its surround- 
ings and conditions. Many interesting particulars are given of manufactures 
and industries. It contains thirty-six full-page Illustrations beautifully 
printed in double tone ink. 

A Commercial Geography of the British Empire. By L. W. 

Lyde, M.A., Professor of Economic Geography at University College, 
London. Tenth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 

The first section gives the general principles of the science and their 
application to the larger areas of the British Empire. The second section 
takes each of the Colonies and considers its surroundings, fisheries, harbours, 
surface, agriculture, and minerals separately. 



LIST OF EDUCATIONAL BOOKS 15 

A Commercial Geography of Foreign Nations. By F. C. Boon, 
B.A., Assistant Master at Dulwich College. Crown 8vo, 2s. 

{^Commercial Series. 
A companion volume to Prof. L. W. Lyde's ' ' Commercial Geography of 
the British Empire." 

A BUstorical Geography of the British Empire. By Hereford 
B. George, M.A., Fellow of New College, Oxford. Fifth Edition. 
With Map. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. 

The purpose of this work is twofold — to describe in outline the British 
Empire, with its component parts so grouped as to show forth the diversity 
of their relations to the mother country — and to point out the nature of the 
relations between the geography and the history of the British Islands, 
from the beginning, and from the time of their becoming British in the case 
of the other possessions. 

Historical and Modem Atlas of the British Empire. Specially 
prepared for Students. By C. Grant Robertson, M.A,(Oxon.), and 
J. G. Bartholomew, F.R.S.E., F.R.G.S. Demy Quarto, 4s. 6d. net. 
The Atlas contains 64 Maps, with numerous insets. Historical Tables 
and Notes, an Introduction, a Historical Gazetteer, a Bibliography, and an 
Index. The combination of modern maps on physical geography, trade, 
industry, etc. , with the special and extensive historical maps of the Empire 
as a whole and of each part of it {e.j^. India, Canada, etc.), give the Atlas a 
character and completeness not hitherto offered by any other Atlas. 

Junior Geography Examination Papers. By W. G. Baker, M.A. 
Fcap. 8vo, Is. \_ Junior Examination Series. 

72 Papers each containing lo questions, covering all branches of the 
subject required by pupils of 12 to 16 years. By an ingenious arrangement 
the papers can be used either as general papers or to test some particular 
part of the subject. 

History and Geography Examination Papers. By C. H. Spence, 

M.A., Assistant Master at Clifton College. Third Edition, Revised. 

Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. {School Examination Series. 

The present edition was practically rewritten and a large number of new 

questions added. 



GERMAN 

Grammars, etc. 

A Junior German Grammar. By H. C. A. Seckler, Senior German 
Master, Owen's School, E.C. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. {Junior School Books. 
This book is for the Middle Forms of schools, and meets the requirements 
of the Oxford and Cambridge Junior Local and the College of Preceptors' 
Examinations. It consists of grammar and exercises, and a particular 
feature is the co-ordination of accidence and syntax. It aims throughout 
at training pupils to use their knowledge for composition. The latter part 
of the book gives various examination papers, with some useful model 
solutions. 

German Passages for Unseen Translation. By E. M 'Queen 
Gray. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. 

A selection of passages from standard authors for the use of Middle and 
Upper Forms. No notes or vocabularies are included. 



t6 MESSRS. METHUEN'S 

Oerman Vocabularies for Repetition. By Sophie Wright. Second 
Edition. Fcap. 8vo, is. 6d. 

A collection of useful German words arranged under subjects. 

A German Commercial Reader. By S. E. Bally. With Vocabulary. 
Crown 8vo, 2s. {Commercial Series. 

The object of this manual is not only to offer the student material for 
translation, but to bring to his notice some practical hints on commerce, 
industry, and commercial history and geography. Roman type and the new 
spelling have been adopted in this book. 

A Manual of Oerman Commercial Correspondence. By S. E. 

Bally. With Vocabulary. Second Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 
2s. 6d. [Commercial Series. 

The specimen letters which illustrate the chapters are preceded by 
analyses and followed by numerous exercises, each containing in a few 
German words the gist of the letter to be composed. Roman type and the 
new spelling have been adopted in this book. 

Qerman Examination Papers in Miscellaneous Grammar and 
Idioms. By R. J. Morich, late of Clifton College. Ninth Edition. 
Cr. 8vo, 2s. 6d. Key (Third Ed.), 6s. net. {School Examination Series. 
A series of Advanced Papers compiled — (i) to avoid the tediousness and 
length of constant grammar repetition, and (2) to make the student 
acquainted with some, at least, of the endless number of German idiomatic 
phrases. 

Junior German Examination Papers in Miscellaneous Grammar 
and Idioms. By A. Voegelin, M.A., Modern Language Master at 
St. Paul's School. Fcap. 8vo, is. {Junior Examination Series. 

An easier book, on the same lines as German Examination Papers. 

Texts 

Simplified German Texts 

Edited by T. R. N. Crofts, M.A., 
Headmaster of Royal Masonic School, Bushey. 

The aim of this Series is to provide pupils who have been studying German 
about two or three years with simple translation books which they can under- 
stand, and which at the same time provide complete stories, instead of a 
succession of little anecdotes. Vocabularies have been added, in which the 
chief idioms are explained. Each volume is fcap. 8vo, is. 

Der Miiller am Rhein. By C. Brent ano. Adapted from '* Das 
Marchen von dem Rhein und dem MUller Radlauf," by Miss A. F. 
Ryan, Modem Language Mistress at the High School, Derby. 

Die Geschichte von Peter Schlemihl. By A. von Chamisso. 
Adapted from '* Peter Schlemihl's Wundersame Geschichte," by R. 
C. Perry, M.A., Modern Language Master at Merchant Taylors' 
School, London. 

Undine und Huldbrand. By De La Motte FouQufi. Adapted from 
♦' Undine," by T. R. N. Crofts, M.A. 

Die Nothelfer. By W. H. Riehl. Adapted from "Die Vierzehn 
Nothelfer," by P. B. Ingham, B.A., Modern Language Master at 
Merchant Taylors' School, London. 

Simplified German Unseens. By T. R. N. Crofts, M.A. 



LIST OF EDUCATIONAL BOOKS J? 

GREEK 

Grammars, Exercises, etc. 

Easy Greek Exercises. By C. G. Botting, M.A., Assistant Master 
at St. Paul's School. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 

These exercises have been compiled to accompany Stedman's "Shorter 
Greek Primer," from which the rules have, by permission, been for the most 
part taken. 

Fassag'es for Unseen Translation. By A. M. Cook, M. A., Assistant 
Master at St. Paul's School, andE. C. Marchant, M.A., Tutor of Lincoln 
College, Oxford. Selected from Latin and Greek Literature. Seventh 
Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. 

Two hundred Latin and two hundred Greek passages, arranged in order 
of increasing difficulty. The book has been carefully compiled to meet the 
wants of V. and VI. Form boys at the Public Schools, and is also well 
adapted for the use of honoursmen at the Universities. Prose and verse 
alternate throughout. 

Notes on Greek and Latin Syntax. By G. Buckland Green, 
M.A., Assistant Master at Edinburgh Academy. Fourth Edition. 
Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. 

The book discusses and explains the chief difficulties of Greek and Latin 
Syntax, so as to afford a preparation for the higher classical examinations. 
The treatment throughout is comparative. There are chapters on the cases, 
tenses, moods, and their uses, on Homeric peculiarities, the article, etc. ; 
and, besides the examples quoted in illustration of the text, numerous pas- 
sages are added, by working through which the student may obtain practice 
in dealing with points of syntax. 

By A. M. M. Stedman, M.A. 

Steps to Greek. Fifth Edition. iSmo, is. 

Easy Lessons on Elementary Accidence, with exercises and vocabularies. 

A Shorter Greek Primer. Revised by C. G. Botting, M.A. Fifth 
Edition. Crown Svo, is. 6d. 

This book contains the elements of Greek Accidence and Syntax. 

Easy Greek Passages for Unseen Translation. Revised by C. 
G. Botting, M.A. Fifth Edition. Fcap. Svo, is. 6d. 

The pieces are graduated in length and difficulty, and the early pieces 
present no serious obstacles. 

Greek Vocabularies for Repetition. Revised by C. G. Botting, 
M.A. Fifth Edition. Fcap. Svo, is. 6d. 

A collection of over 2000 useful words arranged in sets of twelve each 
according to subjects. 

Greek Examination Papers in Miscellaneous Grammar and 
Idioms. Eleventh Edition. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d. Key (Fourth 
Edition), issued to Tutors and Private Students only, 6s. net. 

[School Examination Series. 
A collection of Advanced Papers. 



Junior Greek Examination Papers. By T. C. Weatherhead, 
M.A, Headmaster of King's College Choir School, Cambridge. Second 
Edition. Fcap. Svo, is. {Junior Examination Series. 

A volume of 72 Junior Papers. 

3 



i8 MESSRS. METHUEN'S 

Examination Papers on Thucydides. By T. Nicrlin, M.A., 
Assistant Master at Rossall School. Crown 8vo, 2s. 

In this volume the eight books have been divided into short sections, and 
a paper has been set on each section, as well as recapitulatory papers on 
each book. 

Texts 

Aristotle.— THE ETHICS OF ARISTOTLE. Edited, with an 
Introduction and Notes, by John Burnet, M.A., Professor of Greek at 
St. Andrews. Cheaper issue. Demy 8vo, los. 6d. net. 

An elaborate edition, based on the assumption that the Nicomachean 
Ethics is the authentic work of Aristotle, and that it has hardly suffered from 
interpolation or dislocation. It is also assumed that the Eudemian Ethics 
is our most authoritative commentary, and the parallel passages from it are 
printed under the text to which they refer. The commentary shows that 
most of the difficulties which have been raised disappear when the work is 
interpreted in the light of Aristotle's own rules of Dialectic. 

Demosthenes.— AGAINST CONON AND CALLICLES. Edited by 
F. Darwin Swift, M.A. Second Edition, Revised. Fcap. 8vo, 2s. 

The new text edited for Middle and Upper Forms, with vocabulary and 
notes. 

Greek Testament Selections. With Introduction, Notes, and Vocabu- 
lary, by A. M. M. Stedman, M.A. Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 2s. 6d. 
This small volume contains a selection of passages, each sufficient for a 
lesson, from the Gospels, forming a life of Christ. In schools where only a 
limited time can be given to the study of the Greek Testament an oppor- 
tunity is thus supplied for reading some of the most characteristic and 
interesting passages. 



Translations 



iEschyluS.— AGAMEMNON, CHOEPHOROE, EUMENIDES. Trans- 
lated by Lewis Campbell, LL.D. Crown 8vo, 5s. 

[Classical Trans IcUions. 
Lucian.— SIX DIALOGUES (Nigrinus, Icaro-Menippus, The Dream, The 
Ship, The Parasite, The Lover of Falsehood). Translated by S. T. 
Irwin, M.A., Assistant Master at Clifton. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. 

[Classical Translations. 

Sophocles.— AJ AX AND ELECTRA. Translated by E. D. A. 

MoRSHEAD, M.A. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. [Classical Translations. 



HISTORY 

Classical 



stories from Ancient History. By E. Bo wye r, B.A., B.Sc, Assistant 
Master, Owen's School, Islington. With 2 Maps. Second Edition. 
Crown 8vo, is. 6d. [New Historical Series. 

This volume— the first of a new historical series on the lines of the recent 
circular of the Board of Education on the teaching of History— is intended 
as an introduction to the story of ancient history for pupils up to the age 
of twelve. 

In accordance with the suggestions made in the above-mentioned circular, 
it deals with the ' ' chief events and characters from the history of the most 
important nations in their traditional form." It aims also at "giving some 
idea of the nature of the great nations and stages in civilisation, _ centred 
round certain individuals or events in the chronological succession " in such 
a way that young children shall be able at least to "place" the most notable 
characters of ancient history. 



LIST OF EDUCATIONAL BOOKS 19 

The Ancient World. Outlines of Ancient History for the Middle Forms 
of Schools. By E. M. Wilmot-Buxton, F.R.Hist.S. With 12 Maps 
and 20 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. 

This book tells the stories of the great civilizations of the Ancient World, 
as made known by recent excavation and discovery, from the dawn of 
Egyptian history to the days of the Roman Empire. 

The Greek View of Life. By G. Lowes Dickinson, M.A., Fellow 
of King's College, Cambridge. Ninth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. net. 
A revised edition, reset in new type, of this admirable book, which is a 
general introduction to Greek literature and thought. Among the subjects 
dealt with are the Greek View of Religion, the State and its relation to the 
Citizen, Law, Artisans and Slaves, Sparta, Athens, Manual Labour and 
Trade, Athletics, Pleasure, Greek View of Women, Friendship, Art, 
Sculpture, Painting, Music, etc. 

A First History of Greece. By Edith E. Firth, History Mistress of 
Croydon High School. With 7 Maps. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 
IS. 6d. [Beginner's Books. 

This book has been written in the hope of supplying a History of Greece 
suitable for young children. It is written in biographical form, and those 
lives have been selected which best explain the rise and decline of the 
Greeks. 

A Junior Greek History. By W. Horton Spragge, M.A., Assistant 
Master at City of London School. With 4 Maps and 4 Plates. 
Crown Svo, 2s. 6d. [Junior School Books. 

It describes the main features in the history of Greece down to the time of 
its absorption in the Roman Empire, suitably presented for junior pupils in 
schools. The greater part of it is taken from ancient authorities, Greek and 
Latin, but the views of modern writers have also been consulted. 

A Short History of Greece to the Death of Alexander the Great. 
By W. S. Hett, B.A., Assistant Master a Brighton College. With 
many Maps. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d. 

This book is intended primarily for the use of students reading for the 
Oxford and Cambridge Higher Certificate, and secondarily as an introduc- 
tion to a wider study of the subject. An attempt has been made to render 
some of the recently acquired archaeological evidence accessible to those who 
have no expert knowledge. The recent papers set for the Higher Certificate 
have demanded far more than a mere collection of facts, and accordingly the 
present work has been written with a view to giving a general survey of the 
Greek race and of the broad principles underlying its history. 

Stories from Roman History. By E. M. Wilmot - Buxton, 
F.R.Hist.S. Fourth Edition. Crown Svo, is. 6d. 

[Beginner's Books. 
The object of this book is to provide an introduction to the study of 
Roman history by a series of stories in chronological order dealing with the 
main events and characters of the history of Rome. 

An Introduction to the History of Rome. By H. N. Asman, M. A., 
B.D., Second Master of Owen's School, Islington. With 2 Maps and 
14 Illustrations. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d. 

This book gives to pupils learning Latin some knowledge of the history 
of the great people whose language they are studying. It has been insisted 
by educational authorities that some knowledge of the history of Rome is 
essential not only for a proper appreciation of Roman literature, but that it 
is also a necessary part of a complete education. This book occupies a place 
between the primer and the larger works on the subject. It gives a briei 
survey of the history of Rome to the death of Augustus. It will also be 
found useful for the general reader who desires some knowledge of the 
subject. 



20 MESSRS. METHUEN'S 

A Short History of Rome to the Death of Augustus. By J 
Wells, M.A., Fellow and Tutor of Wadham College, Oxford. With 
3 Maps and 4 Plates. Fourteenth Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. 

"The schoolmasters who have felt the want of a fifth-form handbook of 
Roman history may congratulate themselves on persuading Mr. Wells to 
respond to it. His book is excellently planned and executed. Broken up 
into short paragraphs, with headings to arrest the attention, his manual does 
equal justice to the personal and the constitutional aspects of the story." — 
Journal of Education. 

A Constitutional and Political History of Rome. From the 
Earliest Times to the Reign of Domitian. By T. M. Taylor, M.A., 
Fellow of Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge. Fourth Edition. 
Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. 

It contains an account of the origin and growth of the Roman institutions, 
and a discussion of the various political movements in Rome from the earliest 
times to the reign of Domitian. 

Modern 

Great Britain 

Easy Stories from English History. By E. M. Wilmot-Buxton, 
F.R.Hist.S. Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo, is. {^Beginner's Books, 

A historical reader arranged on the century method ; that is, it aims at 
enabling the learner, before any detailed study is attempted, to run his eye 
over the centuries, and point out the main feature of each succeeding epoch. 
A special point in the method here adopted is the personal representation 
rather than the abstract idea. Each event has been grouped round the life 
or character of some " maker " of his country. The book contains thirty-five 
stories, well and simply told. 

A Junior History of Great Britain. By E. M. Wilmot-Buxton, 
F.R.Hist.S. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 

This book gives a systematic and interesting account of the history of 
Great Britain to pupils of ages ten to fourteen, who have hitherto studied the 
subject in the form of "Stories." To prevent it from being a mere outline, 
and in accordance with the Board of Education's Circular, many unimport- 
ant facts have been omitted, and the aim has been to give (i) a clear 
apprehension of the chief events in chronological sequence ; (2) a fairly 
detailed study of those aspects which should specially appeal to young pupils. 
Not only have the more dramatic episodes of history been purposely selected 
for treatment, but these have been illustrated, wherever possible, by dramatic 
literature and by tableaux. The connexion of history with literature has 
been maintained throughout. 

A History of Great Britain. From the Coming of the Angles to the 
Year 1870. By E. M. Wilmot-Buxton, F.R.Hist.S. With 20 Maps. 
Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. 

This book attempts to break through the conventional lines on which 
History Class-books are laid down. With very few exceptions these books 
make the reign the chapter-Hmit, and take each event in chronological order. 
In this book the old system has been entirely discarded, and each chapter 
will be found to deal with one great movement, which is traced in cause, 
events, and result. Another feature is the close connection which has been 
maintained throughout with European History. Since it is clearly impossible 
to grasp a great part of our internal history or any of our external relations 
without understanding the contemporary position of affairs on the Continent, 
almost every chapter will be found to commence with a brief explanation of 
the latter, pointing out the particular crisis with which England was 
especially concerned. 



LIST OF EDUCATIONAL BOOKS 21 

Methuen'8 Historical Readers 

Illustrated. Crown 8vo. 

This series has been published in response to a demand for a well-written 
and thoroughly up-to-date set of History Readers. The primary aim of these 
books is "to furnish the scholars with a connected knowledge in outline of the 
main course of English history, and of a few leading events in the history of other 
nations which have influenced our own country. " The underlying idea of each 
volume is set out in the title, but throughout the series an attempt has been 
made to combine with the historical record, in a manner calculated to appeal to 
young minds, some idea of the qualities that make for good citizenship. 

The Pageant of British History. By E. M. Wilmot-Buxton, 
F.R.Hist.S. With 2 Plates in Colour and 8 other Illustrations. 
IS. 6d. 

This book attempts to show, as in a pageant, the course of English 
history by a series of word pictures, and thus by a vivid appeal to the 
imagination of the children to arouse their interest in the drama of the past. 

The Romance of British History ; or, Britain s Rise from Savagery 
to Civilization. By JosiAH Turner. With a Frontispiece in Colour 
and 8 other Illustrations, is. 6d. 

This volume contains a more systematic treatment of the subject on con- 
centric hues, with special emphasis on the great movements that have left a 
permanent mark on the history of the country, and tracing the influence of 
geographical conditions on historical development. 

The Growth of Modem Britain. An Outline History of the British 
People from 1830 to 1910. By B. H. Sutton. With a Frontispiece 
in Colour, and 8 other Illustrations. 2s. 

This volume, after summarising the leading events up to 1830, deals in 
greater detail with the modern period from 1830 to 1910. It is written on 
entirely new lines, and a considerable amount of space is devoted to indus- 
trial progress and social conditions. The development of local government 
is sketched in simple langfuage, and the moral of history is applied to the 
practical problems that confront the democracy of to-day. The book aims 
also at giving, in a small space, some knowledge of modern political con- 
ditions such as will enable the child on leaving school to take his place as a 
citizen, and play his part in the government of the Empire. 

iWletliuen's School History of England 

In Three Volumes 
A Short History of Early England. To 1485. By H. J. Cape, 
M.A., B.A., B.Sc, F.R.Hist.S., Headmaster of the Mathematical 
School, Rochester. With 6 Maps. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. 

The author has endeavoured to carry out the suggestions contained in 
two recent and most valuable Memoranda of the Board of Education. By 
Hmiting the space devoted to the less instructive reigns, it has been possible 
to treat at greater length the events of outstanding importance, while the 
great movements of history are discussed in their European bearing and not 
merely from the influence which they exercised upon our own country. 

It is, however, hoped that the book will satisfy the requirements of those 
who need a practical textbook for examination purposes. 

* A Short History of Tudor and Stuart England. 1485-17 14. By 
L. Oldershaw, M.A. With Maps. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. 

This volume aims at showing the position of England in Europe, and at 
sketching her internal development during the period when the foundations 
of the modern State and the Empire were being laid. 

The Reformation and the counter Reformation, and England's attitude 
in regard to these niovements, the Irish policy of the I'udors, and of 



22 MESSRS. METHUEN'S 

Methuen's School History of Engfland — continued 

Cromwell, the great struggle of the Executive and the Legislature, and the 
increasing attention paid to commercial problems and in foreign relations 
are among the larger questions dealt with in broad and simple outlines. 
As in the other volumes of the series, each chapter deals with a particular 
phase of the subject; illustrative extracts drawn from typical "sources" 
are added to many of the chapters, and its usefulness has been further 
increased by the inclusion of summaries and a biographical index. 

A Short History of Modem England. 1714-1910. By Ernest 
BowYER, B.A., B.Sc. With 7 Maps and Genealogical Tables. Crown 
8vo, 2s. 6d. 

This volume has been written, on modern lines, expressly for Upper 
Forms of Schools. In order to enable the young pupil to grasp the 
history of his country during the last two centuries as an intelligible whole, 
the economic side of England's history and the part she has played in 
international politics have been dealt with in greater detail than is usual 
in textbooks written for schools. Each chapter deals with a particular phase 
of the subject ; illustrative extracts drawn from typical " Sources" are added 
to many of the chapters, and the usefulness of the volume is further in- 
creased by the inclusion of biographies and summaries. 



School County Histories 

Illustrated. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. each 

This series is designed to enforce the idea, so all-important in young people's 
education, that history begins at home. The volumes are meant to bring history 
into connexion with scenes which their readers know, to illustrate manners 
by local examples, and to teach that every place has its interest and its story. 
Maps and illustrations are freely added, and each county volume is written by 
an author who has made a special study of the county he treats. 

A School History of Middlesex, including London. By Victor 
G. Plarr, M.A., and F. W. Walton, M.A. With 45 Illustrations 
and a Plan of London. 

A School History of Surrey. By H. E. Malden, M.A. With 4 
Maps and 50 Illustrations. 

A School History of Somerset. By Walter Raymond. With 
70 Illustrations. Second Edition. 

A School History of "Warwickshire. By Sir B. C. A. Windle, D.Sc, 
F.R.S., President of Queen's College, Cork. With 47 Illustrations. 



Handy Digest of British History. By C. E. Snowden. 
Demy 8vo, 4s. 6d. 

A guide and companion that aims at presenting a clear and easily grasp- 
able analysis of the course of events to students who are reading, and at 
refreshing, at a minimum cost of time and trouble, the memories of those 
who have read. It supplies a commentary on the more important and 
leading questions of each period, while it contents itself with the barest 
inention of episodes, the details of which can be found ip rriost textboQks. 



LIST OF EDUCATIONAL BOOKS 23 

English Life Three Hundred Years Ago. Being the first two 
chapters of "England under the Stuarts." By G. M. Trevelyan, 
M.A., late Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. Edited by J. Turral, 
B.A., Headmaster of the Blackpool Secondary School. Crown 8vo, is. 

A graphic account of the state of England and English Society from 
1603 to 1640. 

A Constitutional History of England. By A. M. Chambers, 
Honours School of Modern History, Oxford ; History Mistress, Bedford 
High School. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. 

This book is meant primarily for use in the Upper Forms in schools and 
for Students beginning more advanced work. It deals mainly with Saxon 
and Feudal Organization, and with the evolution of the Central Government 
out of earlier institutions. The development of each branch of the Con- 
stitution — Executive, Legislature, and Judicature — is traced separately, but, 
as far as possible, the history of each subject is dealt with chronologically. 
The difference between the English and other constitutions is examined, and 
its chief characteristics are pointed out, while the relationship of the several 
branches of the Constitution to each other, now and in the past, is shown, 
and an attempt is made to suggest the practical effects of the present balance 
of power in the State on the Constitution. 

Original Illustrations of English Constitutional History. 

Comprising a Selected Number of the Chief Charters and Statutes. 
By D. J. Medley, M.A., Professor of History in the University of 
Glasgow. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. net. 

This volume covers the whole period from the Anglo-Saxon laws to the 
Act of Union with Ireland. University teachers have long desired such a 
collection in a single volume. In those already published the pieces are 
translated. But since the object of this selection is that it should serve as 
an introduction to more extended study, the documents written in French or 
Latin are presented in the original language, and they are annotated 
throughout with extracts from other original material bearing on all important 
points, in order that each passage may be as far as possible its own 
interpreter. 

The Industrial History of England. By H. de B. Gibbins, Litt.D., 
M.A. With Maps and Plans. Twentieth Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 

An introduction to the subject, giving in concise and simple form the main 
outlines of England's economic history. As far as possible the economic 
questions are connected with the social, political, and military movements. 

British Commerce and Colonies from Elizabeth to Victoria. 

By H. de b. Gibbins, LittD., M.A. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 

{Commercial Series. 

A review of the history of British Commerce, written in simple and concise 
form, without elaborate detail. 

Battles of English History. By H. B. George, M.A., Fellow of New 
College, Oxford. With numerous Plans. Fifth Edition. Crown 
8vo, 3s. 6d. 

This book is intended to give a clear general idea of all the most im- 
portant Battles of English History, and, without being technical, to bring 
out their meaning. It is suitable for an Upper Form textbook or school prize. 



24 MESSRS. METHUEN'S 

Revision Notes on English History. By F. Wallace-Hadrill, 
Assistant Master at Kingston-on-Thames Grammar School. Cr. 8vo, is. 
This book is not intended to supersede, but rather to supplement the use 
of the ordinary class-book, and has been written chiefly for the use of 
candidates preparing for the Local Examinations. It contains a chrono- 
logical analysis of the leading events of English history, together with 
general notes on each reign. 

Examination Papers in English History. By J. Tait 

Wardlaw, B.A. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. [School Examination Series. 

These papers are designed for candidates for a pass degree in History in 

the Universities, and for students taking Historical Scholarships, Army 

Candidates, and the ordinary work in Public Schools. 

Junior History Examination Papers. By W. O. P. Davies. Crown 
8vo, IS. [Junior Examination Series. 

For pupils preparing for the Oxford and Cambridge Locals, College of 
Preceptors, and other Junior Examinations. They have been modelled on 
papers actually set by the various examining bodies, and the answers 
required will prove useful exercises in Composition. They are all most 
carefully graduated, and can be used either to test one particular period, 
or as Examination Papers of the subject generally. 

The Rights and Duties of the English Citizen. [See under ** Civics" 

A Student's History of Scotland. By David W. Rannie, M.A. 

With 4 Maps. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d. 

A history written throughout in simple language, and putting as clearly 
as possible the results of the most careful recent criticism from original 
sources. 

Europe and the Empire 

Six Ages of European History 

From A.D. 476 to 1878 

Edited by A. H. Johnson, M.A., Fellow of All Souls' College, Oxford. 
With Maps. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d. each 

The Dawn of Mediaeval Europe, 476-918. By J. H. B. Masterman, 
M.A., Professor of History in the University of Birmingham. With 
12 Maps. Third Edition. 

It is hardly possible to understand European history without some know- 
ledge of the settlement of Europe after the Teutonic immigrations and the fall 
of the Empire in the West. This volume traces the successive rise of the 
Gothic and Prankish Kingdoms, leading to the establishment of the Holy 
Roman Empire under Charles the Great, and its break up under his descend- 
ants. The influence of the Eastern Empire, and the rise and conquests of the 
Mohammedan faith, are considered chiefly in their bearing on the develop- 
ment of Western Europe. Attention is directed especially to the central 
figures of the period: Theodoric, S. Benedict, Justinian, Clovis, Charles the 
Great. 

The Central Period of the Middle Age, 918-1273. By B. A. Lees, 
Resident History Tutor, Somerville College, Oxford. With 10 Maps. 
Third Edition. 

Opening with the election of Henry the Fowler, and closing with the rise 
of the House of Hapsburg to power, it covers the period of the struggle for 
supremacy between Empire and Papacy and of the gradual building up of 
the nations of modem Europe on the ruins of Imperial Rome. It traces the 
development of feudalism and monasticism, of chivalry and the Crusades, of 
scholasticism and the Universities, and connects these great movements with 
the great n»en who inspired and led them. 



LIST OF EDUCATIONAL BOOKS 25 

The End of the Middle Age, 1273-1453. By E. C. Lodge, Vice- 
Principal and History Tutor, Lady Margaret Hall. Third Edition. 

The period which it covers is one of great importance. It marks the decay 
of the political system of the Middle Ages, and the disappearance of the old 
unity in Western Europe ; whilst in it can be traced the growth of new ideals 
to take the place of the old, and above all the rise of nations. It is essentially 
a time of transition, a period of effort and experiment rather than of finished 
work. Its great interest lies in the fact that all the details of the history are 
part of this gradual change from the Middle Ages to Modem days. 

Europe in Renaissance and Reformation, 1463-1660. By M. A. 
HOLLINGS, M.A. Fourth Edition. 

This book deals with the formation of the modern European state-system, 
the Renaissance and Reformation (both Protestant and Catholic), the con- 
solidation and ascendancy of France in Europe, and the Wars of Religion, 
ending with the Thirty Years' War. 

The Age of the Enlightened Despot, 1660-1789. By A. H. 

Johnson, M.A., Fellow of All Souls'. With 11 Maps. Fourth Edition. 
The period covered by this volume opens with the triumph of the monarchy 
of Louis XIV and closes with the failure of the rule of Louis XVI. The aim of 
the volume is to bring clearly before the young reader the theory of monarchical 
rule represented by these kings, and to show when and why they succeeded 
or failed. 

The Remaking of Modern Europe : From the Outbreak of the French 
Revolution to the Treaty of Berlin, 1789-1878. By J. A. R. Marriott, 
M.A. With 10 Maps. Ninth Edition. 

It contains a sketch of European history, presenting a vivid picture of the 
revolutionary period, of the rise and fall of Napoleon, and of the larger move- 
ments of European politics since Waterloo. 



Stories from Modem History. By E. M. Wilmot-Buxton, 
F.R.Hist.S. Crown 8vo, IS. 6d. {New Historical Series. 

An introduction to the story of modem history for pupils up to the age of 
twelve. In accordance with the suggestions made in the late circular of the 
Board of Education, it deals with " the chief events and characters from the 
history of the most important nations in their traditional form." It aims also 
at ' ' giving some idea of the nature of the great nations and stages in civilisa- 
tion, centred round certain individuals or events in their chronological 
succession" in such a way that young children shall be able at least to 
"place" the most notable characters of history. 

Makers of Europe. Outlines of European History for the Middle Forms 
of Schools. By E. M. Wilmot-Buxton, F.R.Hist.S. With 12 Maps. 
Fourteenth Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. 

A Textbook of European History for Middle Forms and Pupil Teachers. 

Tales from Irish History. By A. Birkhead, B.A. With a Map. 
Crown 8vo, is. 6d. {Stories from the Histories. 

Stories from French History. By Taylor Dyson, M.A. With a 
Map. Crown Svo, is. 6d. {Stories from the Histories. 

Stories from Scottish History. By E. M. Wilmot-Buxton, 
F.R.Hist.S. With a Map. Crown Svo, is. 6d. {Stories from the Histories. 

Stories from American History. By Alice Birkhead. With a 
Map. Crown Svo, IS. 6d. {Stories from the Histories, 



26 ' MESSRS. METHUEN'S 

The Story of the British Empire for Children. By F. M. Anderson. 
With many Illustrations. Revised Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 

This book gives the story of the Empire in simple language for children. 
Part I. gives a rapid survey of the Colonies and Dependencies to show the 
unity of the whole under the Crown. Part II. describes in greater detail 
India, Canada, New Zealand, Australia, and Tasmania. 

History and Geography Examination Papers. By C. II. Spence, 
M.A., Assistant Master at Clifton College. Third Edition, Revised. 
Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. {^School Examination Series. 

The French Revolution. By J. E. Symes, M.A., Principal of Uni- 
versity College, Nottingham. With a Map. Second Edition. Crown 
8vo, 2s. 6d. 

A short general account of the French Revolution, bringing out the 
significance of the chief facts and their relation to problems of ovu: own time. 



LATIN 

Grammars, Exercises, etc. 

A School Latin Grammar. By H. G. Ford, M.A., Assistant Master 
at Bristol Grammar School. Third Edition, Revised. Crown Svo, 
2s. 6d. [Junior School Books. 

Both in the Accidence and Syntax what is essential for beginners is 
carefully separated, by a system of typing or paging, from what they may 
neglect. The book may thus be used by boys of all forms. 

An Elementary Latin Exercise Book. By H. G. Ford, M.A., and 
L. V. Cau DWELL, M.A., Assistant Masters at Bristol Grammar 
School. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d. 

This book covers a two years' course divided into six parts, each part 
containing twelve explanations and twelve vocabularies of uniform length 
(lo words), with twenty English-Latin sentences and fifteen Latin-Enghsh 
to each explanation. Throughout only words and constructions found in 
Caesar B. G. are used. ' 

It is a companion book to Mr. Ford's " A School Latin Grammar." 

Elementary Latin. Being a First Year's Course. By F. J. Terry, 
B.A., Assistant Master at Preston House School, East Grinstead. 
Crown Svo, Pupils' Book, 2s. ; Masters' Book, 3s. 6d. net. 

A year's school course arranged for class teaching, with text written to 
allow the gradual introduction of all inflected forms. Nouns and verbs are 
built up according to their stem formation throughout, so that the learner 
gradually acquires the Accidence systematically. As a matter of practical 
experience, boys 10 or 11 years of age are able to construe Caesar at the end 
of the course with but little help. The book contains Vocabularies, Grammar, 
and Exercises, and no other textbook is required by the pupils. The Masters' 
Book is a commentary on the Pupils' book, and explains the system of teach- 
ing. It directs attention consistently throughout to the meaning of words, 
and thus explains the Grammar. 

A Junior Latin Prose. By H. N. Asman, M.A., B.D. Crown 
Svo, 2s. 6d. [Junior School Books. 

The "Junior Latin Prose" is written primarily, though not exclusively, 
with a view to the Junior Locals. It contains explanation of, and exercises 
on, the chief rules of Syntax, with special attention to points which cause 
difficulty to boys, and concludes with exercises in Continuous Prose. 



LIST OF EDUCATIONAL BOOKS 27 

Exercises in Latin Accidence. By S. E. Winbolt, M.A. Crown 
8vo, IS. 6d. 

This book is adapted for Lower Forms, and is intended to accompany the 
Shorter Latin Primer. ' 

Latin Fassa^res for Unseen Translation. By A. M. Cook, M.A., 
Assistant Master at St. Paul's School, and E. C. Marchant, M.A., 
Tutor of Lincoln College, Oxford. Seventh Edition. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. 
Two hundred Latin passages, arranged in order of increasing difficulty. 
Has been carefully compiled to meet the wants of V. and VI. Form boys at 
the Public Schools, and is also well adapted for the use of honoursmen at the 
Universities. Prose and verse alternate throughout. 

Notes on Greek and Latin Syntax. By G. Buckland Green, 
M.A., Assistant Master at Edinburgh Academy. Fourth Edition. 
Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. 

For description, see under "Greek." 

Latin Hexameter Verse. An Aid to Composition. By S. E. Winbolt, 
M.A. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d. Key, 5s. net. 

This book contains the fruit of several years' class teaching. It is offered 
as a help to Fifth and Sixth Forms at Public Schools, and Undergraduates 
at Universities. 

The principle adopted is to aid in the composition of hexameter verse, by 
showing to some extent the development of this literary form, by inferring 
from the evolution what is the best workmanship, and by hinting how 
technique depends largely on thought. 

By A. M. M. Stedman, M.A. 

Initia Latina. Easy Lessons on Elementary Accidence. Revised by 
C. G. BoTTiNG, M.A. Fifteenth Edition. Fcap. Svo, is. 

A very easy Latin course for quite young pupils, containing Grammar, 
Exercises, and Vocabularies. 

First Latin Lessons. Revised by C. G. Botting, M.A. Fourteenth 
Edition. Crown Svo, 2s. 

This book is much fuller than " Initia Latina," and while it is not less 
simple, it will carry a boy a good deal further in the study of elementary 
Latin. The Exercises are more numerous, some easy translation adapted 
from Caesar has been added, and a few easy Examination Papers will afford 
a useful test of a boy's knowledge of his grammar. The book is intended 
to form a companion book to the " Shorter Latin Primer." 

A First Latin Reader. With Notes adapted to the Shorter Latin 
Primer, and Vocabulary. Revised byC. G. BOTTiNG, M.A. Seventh 
Edition. iSmo, is. 6d. 

A collection of easy passages without difficulties of construction or 
thought. The book commences with simple sentences and passes on to 
connected passages, including the history of Rome and the invasion of 
Britain, simplified from Eutropius and Caesar. 

Easy Latin Passages for Unseen Translation. Fifteenth Edi- 
tion. Fcap. Svo, IS. 6d. 

A collection of short passages for beginners. The pieces are graduated 
in length and difficulty. 

Exempla Latina. First Exercises in Latin Accidence. With Vocabu- 
lary. Fifth Edition. Crown Svo, is. 

This book is intended to be used midway between a book of elementary 
lessons and more difficult Exercises on Syntax. It contains simple and 
copious exercises on Accidence and Elementary Syntax. 



98 MESSRS. METHUEN'S 

Easy Latin Exercises on the Syntax of the Shorter and 
Revised Latin Primers. Revised by C. G. Dotting, M.A. With 
Vocabulary. Fifteenth Edition. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. Key, 3s. net. 

This book has been compiled to accompany Dr. Kennedy's "Shorter 
Latin Pi-imer" and "Revised Latin Primer." Special attention has been 
paid to the rules of oratio obliqua^ and the exercises are numerous. 

The Latin Compound Sentence. Rules and Exercises. Second Edi- 
tion. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. ; with Vocabulary, 2s. 

This book has been compiled to meet the requirements of boys who have 
worked through a book of easy exercises on Syntax, and who need methodical 
teaching on the Compound Sentence. In the main the arrangement of the 
Revised Latin Primer has been followed. 

Ifotanda Ctuaadam. Miscellaneous Latin Exercises on Common Rules 
and Idioms. Sixth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, is. 6d. ; with Vocabulary, 2s. 
Key, 2s. net. 

This volume is designed to supply miscellaneous practice in those rule 5 
and idioms with which boys are supposed to be familiar. Each exercise 
consists of ten miscellaneous sentences, and the exercises are carefully gradu- 
ated. The book may be used side by side with the manuals in regular use. 

Latin Vocabularies for Repetition. Arranged according to Subjects. 
Revised by C. G. Botting, M.A. Eighteenth Edition. Fcap. Svo, is. 6d. 
In this book an attempt has been made to remedy that scantiness of 
vocabulary which characterises most boys. The words are arranged ac- 
cording to subjects in vocabularies of twelve words each, and if the matter 
of this little book of eighty-nine pages is committed to memory, the pupil 
will have a good stock of words on every subject. 

A Vocabulary of Latin Idioms and Phrases. Sixth Edition. 
i8mo, IS. 

Seven hundred useful Latin phrases arranged alphabetically, Latin- 
English. 

Latin Examination Papers in Miscellaneous Grammar and 
Idioms. Sixteenth Edition. Cr. Svo, 2s. 6d. Key (Seventh Edition), 
issued to Tutors and Private Students only, 6s. net. 

The papers have been compiled to provide boys who have passed 
beyond the elementary stages of grammar and scholarship with practice 
in miscellaneous grammar and idioms. 

Considerable space has been given to the doctrines of the moods (a real 
test of accurate scholarship), and to those short idioms and idiomatic sen- 
tences which illustrate the differences between the English and Latin 
languages. 

Junior Latin Examination Papers. By C. G. Botting, M.A., 
Assistant Master at St. Paul's School. Tenth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, is. 
Key, 3s. 6d. net. [Junior Examination Series. 

An easier book on the same lines as Stedman's "Latin Examination 
Papers." It is intended for use in the Lower Forms of Public Schools, and 
by candidates preparing for the Oxford and Cambridge Junior Local 
Examinations. The volume contains 720 carefully graduated original 
questions, divided into papers of ten questions each. 

Examination Papers on Vergil. By W. G. Coast, B.A., Assistant 
Master at Fettes College. Crown Svo, 2s. 

Three papers are given to each Georgic, five to each ^Eneid, and one to 
each Eclogue, and in addition there are a number of general papers. 

Examination Papers on Horace. By T. C. Weatherhead, M.A. 
Crown Svo, 2s. 

In this volume the whole of Horace has been divided into short sections, 
and a paper has been set on each section, as well as (usually) two recapitu- 
latory papers on each part, e.g. the first book of the Odes. 



LIST OF EDUCATIONAL BOOKS 29 

Texts 

SimplifieGl Latin Texts 

Edited by H. N. Asman, M.A., B.D., Second Master of 
Owen's School, Islington. 

This series is being prepared to meet the real need in schools of a more varied 
selection of authors for young pupils. The texts have been abridged with a view 
to economy of time, and also with a view to simplification. This has been done 
by omission, and not by alteration. Notes have been added sparingly, vocabu- 
laries have been given, and naturally long vowels marked throughout. A few 
questions on the subject-matter have been appended to furnish materials and 
suggestions for oral work and written composition. The texts are Fcap. 8vo, 
IS. each. The first volumes ^re : — 
The Catiline of Sallust. By A. J. Harnett, M.A., Assistant Master, 

Emanuel School, Wandsworth, S.W. 
Selections from Catullus. By H. N. Asman, M.A., B.D. 
Stories from Martial. By H. N. Asman, M.A., B.D. 



Cfflsar.— EASY SELECTIONS FROM C^SAR. The Helvetian War 
With Notes and Vocabulary. By A. M. M. Stedman, M.A. Re 
vised by C. G. Botting, M.A. Fifth Edition. i8mo, is. 

Livy.— EASY SELECTIONS FROM LIVY. The Kings of Rome, 
With Notes and Vocabulary. By A. M. M. Stedman, M.A. Illus 
trated. Second Edition. i8mo, is. 6d. 

Plautus.— THE CAPTIVI. Edited, with an Introduction, Textual Notes, 
and a Commentary, by W. M. Lindsay, Fellow of Jesus College, 
Oxford. Demy 8vo, los. 6d. net. 

The editor has recoUated all the important MSB. The book contains a 
long Introduction and an important Appendix on the accentual elements in 
early Latin verse. The textual Notes are complete and the Commentary is fulL 

Tacitus. — AGRICOLA. With Introduction, Notes, Maps, etc. By 
R. F. Davis, M.A. Crown Svo, 2s. 

GERMANIA. By R. F. Davis, M.A. Crown Svo, 2s. 

The text, edited with an Introduction, Notes, and Critical Appendix for 



Middle Forms. 



Translations 



Cicero.— DE ORATORE I. Translated by E. N. P. Moor, M.A., late 
Assistant Master at Clifton. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d. 

SELECT ORATIONS (Pro Milone, Pro Murena, Philippic 11., In 

Catilinam). Translated by H. E. D. Blakiston, M.A., Fellow and 
Tutor of Trinity College, Oxford. Crown Svo, 5s. 

DE NATURA DEORUM. Translated by F. Brooks, M.A., 

late Scholar of Balliol College, Oxford. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d. 

DE OFFICIIS. Translated by G. B. Gardiner, M.A. Crown 



Svo, 2s. 6d. 
Horace.— THE ODES AND EPODES. Translated by A. D. Godley, 

M.A., Fellow of Magdalen College, Oxford. Crown Svo, 2s. 
JuvenaL— THIRTEEN SATIRES OF JUVENAL. Translated by 

S. G. Owen, M.A. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d. 
Tacitus.— AGRICOLA AND GERMANIA. Translated by R. B. Town- 

SHEND, late Scholar ot Trinity College, Cambridge. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d. 



30 MESSRS. METHUEN'S 

MATHEMATICS 

Algebra 

Easy Exercises in Algebra for Beginners. Containing 3500 
Original Problems. By W. S. Bearu. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. 
With Answers, is. gd. ; Without Answers, is, 6d. 

A preparatory course in Algebra for the Local Examinations. This book 
contams many distinctive features. 

Test Cards in Euclid and Algebra. By D. S. Calderwood. 
In three packets of 40, with Answers, is. each ; or in three books, 
price 2d., 2d., and 3d. 

Junior Algebra Examination Papers. By S. W. Finn, M.A., 

Headmaster of Sandbach School. With or Without Answers. Second 

Edition. Fcap. 8vo, is. \^ Junior Examination Series. 

Seventy-two Papers of ten questions each. The problems, which are 

original, will be found suitable for candidates for the Local Examinations. 



Arithmetic 

Easy Exercises in Arithmetic. Containing 5000 Examples. By 
W. S. Beard. Eighth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. With Answers, is. 3d. ; 
Without Answers, is. {^Beginner's Books. 

A course of Arithmetic for Lower Forms in Secondary Schools and pupils 
preparing for Public Schools, Naval Cadetships, the Oxford and Cambridge 
Preliminary Local Examinations. The examples are very numerous, care- 
fully graduated, and do not involve the use of big numbers. 

Junior Arithmetic Examination Papers. By W. S. Beard, 
With or Without Answers. Seventh Edition. Fcap. Svo, is. 

{Junior Examination Series. 
Contains 900 Questions arranged in Papers of ten each. Suitable for 
candidates for the Local Examinations, County Scholarships, etc. 

A Child's Book of Arithmetic. By Herbert McKay, B.Sc.(Lond.), 
Honours in Mathematics. With many Illustrations by Lilian Fair- 
weather. Crown Svo, lod. 

A novel and amusing little book on Arithmetic. The subject is pre- 
sented in a most attractive form, and the word " problem " is robbed of all 
its terrors. 

The Metric System. By Leon Delbos. With numerous Examples. 
Crown Svo, 2s. 

A clear and practical account of the subject. 

Technical Arithmetic and Geometry. By C. T. Millis, M.I.M.E., 
Principal of the Borough Polytechnic Institute. For use in Technical 
Institutes, Modern Schools, and Workshops. Second Edition, Revised. 
Crown Svo, 3s. 6d. {Textbooks of Science. 

A course in Arithmetic, Geometry, and Mensuration intended more 
especially for students in the engineering and building trades. 

Exercises and Examination Papers in Arithmetic, Logarithms, 
and Mensuration. By C. Pendlebury, M.A., Senior Mathe- 
matical Master at St. Paul's School. Sixth Edition. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d< 
Key, Ss. net. {School Examination Series. 



LIST OF EDUCATIONAL BOOKS 31 

New Junior Arithmetic. By H. Bompas Smith, M.A., Head- 
master of King Edward VII School, Lytham. Third Edition. Crown 
8vo. With Answers, 2s. 6d. ; Without Answers, 2s. 

In this book Arithmetic is taught as the habitual application of common 
sense to questions involving number, not as the acquisition of mechanical 
facilities in certain rules. It is the cheapest Arithmetic on reform lines issued. 
The present edition contains additional examples on the lines of the 
questions set at the Oxford and Cambridge Junior Local Examinations, by 
W. S. Beard. 

Short Commercial Arithmetic. By F. G. Taylor, M.A. 
Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. [Commercial Series. 

A treatise for those with a fair knowledge of Arithmetic and Algebra. 
Special attention is given to quick methods of approximation. Contains an 
excellent chapter on the slide rule. 



Book-keeping 



Double-Entry Book-keeping. A Complete Treatise on its Theory 
and Practice. By James Cusack, LL.D., Principal of the Business 
Training College, Finsbury Square. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. 

Covers the requirements for all the Elementary, Junior, and Intermediate 
Examinations held by the London Chamber of Commerce, the Royal Society 
of Arts, the National Union of Teachers, the Oxford and Cambridge Senior 
Locals, the College of Preceptors, and other similar Examinations. 

The Principles of Book-keeping by Double Entry. By J. E. 

B. M 'Allen, M.A., Headmaster of Lowestoft Secondary Day School. 

Crown Svo, 2s. {^Commercial Series. 

A clear and intelligible account of the principles for those who have no 

previous knowledge of the subject. 

Examination Papers in Book-keeping. By J. T. Medhurst. 
Tenth Edition. Crown Svo, 3s. Key, 2s. 6d. net. 

{^School Examination Series. 

Geometry 

Practical Geometry for Schools. By Sidney A, Switzer, Art 
Master and Honours Medallist in Geometry, Examiner to the Examina- 
tion Board of the N.U.T. Fully Illustrated. Crown Svo, 2s. 

This up-to-date textbook is the result ot twenty years' practical experi- 
ence. It is designed to assist students generally, and is suited to the 
requirements of candidates taking the Board of Education, Oxford and 
Cambridge Local, and College of Preceptors' Examinations. The problems 
are well graduated ; suggestive dimensions are inserted in their enunciation ; 
and they are all illustrated. Each page is self-contained, so that there is no 
turning over in the study of any one problem. Each page has a correspond- 
ing set of exercises. These exercises are mostly original. 

Geometry on Modern Lines. By E. S. Boulton, M.A., Lecturer 
on Mathematics, Merchant Venturers' Technical College, Bristol. 
Crown Svo, 2s. 

A textbook on the new method. Only necessary propositions have been 
retained, and the proofs are based on the simplest process of reasoning. 

A Preliminary Geometry. By Noel S. Lydon, Assistant Master at 
Owen's School, Islington. With 159 Diagrams. Crown Svo, is. 

The " Preliminary Geometry" is intended for the use of beginners. The 
treatment of the subject is mainly experimental and practical, and the 
ground covered is sufficient to enable the pupil to pass easily to the study of 
a formal course of theorems. Problems involving accurate measurement and 
arithmetical applications of geometrical principles are freely used ; the book 
is copiously illustrated and a large number of useful exercises is provided. 



MESSRS. METHUEN'S 

Junior Geometry. By Noel S. Lydon. With 276 Diagrams. 
Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. \^ Junior School Books. 

The method of treatment is the outcome of the author's long practical ex- 
perience as teacher of the subject at Owen's School, IsUngton. The group- 
ing of kindred propositions, the demonstrations attached to the practical 
problems, the copious series of questions and exercises, and the methodical 
division of the subject into lessons of practical length, are features calculated 
to commend themselves to both master and pupil. 



Trigonometry 



A New Trigonometry for Beginners. By R. F. D'Arcy, M.A., 
Lecturer on Mathematics at Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge. 
With numerous Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. 

Among the special features of this book are : — The introduction of ex- 
periments in practical geometry to lead up to many of the topics considered ; 
the use throughout the book of four-figure tables ; the regulation of the 
special consideration of the trigonometrical ratios of angles of 30, 45, 60, 120, 
135, and 150 degrees to a few worked-out examples. 

Trigonometry Examination Papers. By the Rev. G. H. Ward, 
M.A. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Key, 5s. net. 

{School Examination Series, 



SCIENCE 

Nature Study 



Methuen'8 Nature Books 

These books have been specially written by eminent naturalists to serve the 
purpose of Nature Study class-books. The respective authors have had a long 
experience in teaching and organizing this important branch of school-work, and 
have attempted to produce volumes which will combine the functions of a school 
Reader, and at the same time deal in a systematic way with the elements of 
Nature Study as carried out in the most up-to-date schools. The importance of 
scientific method has been specially emphasized, and the whole subject is treated 
in a manner calculated to arouse the interest and curiosity of children, so that 
the educational value of Nature Study may be fully and adequately realized. 

Some Secrets of Nature. Short Studies in Field and Wood. With an 
Introduction by W. J. P. Burton, late Lecturer in Nature Study, 
Derby Training College, and Organizer of Rural Education, North 
Riding of Yorkshire Education Committee. Illustrated with Coloured 
Plates and Photographs from Nature. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 
is. 6d. 

This book is designed primarily as a class-book for children of eleven 
years of age and upwards. Its aim is to supplement and give unity to 
the ordinary Nature lesson, to inculcate a love of the study of plants and 
animals as they live and grow, and to teach children to see and to think. It 
will be of great assistance to teachers in framing an introductory course of 
lessons in Nature Study, and will serve to indicate some of the directions 
in which definite lines of thought may be pursued. 

The Romance of Nature. Studies of the Earth and its Life. By W. J. P. 
Burton. With a Preface by the Rev. Alfred Thornley, M.A., 
Superintendent of Nature Study to the Nottingham and Leicestershire 
Education Committees ; Lecturer on Nature Study to the Midland Agri- 
cultural and Dairy College, Kingston, Derby. Illustrated with Coloured 
Plates and Photographs from Nature. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 2s. 
This book will serve as a more advanced class-book. It will also be 
useful to teachers as an indication of the lines to be followed in planning a^ 



LIST OF EDUCATONAL BOOKS 33 

systematic course of lessons in this subject. While in no sense attempt- 
ing to exhaust any one branch, the book gives a brief account of earth-lore, 
dealing successively with the history and structure of the earth, and the 
common forms of plant and animal life that inhabit it. The aim through- 
out is to provide material to stimulate observation and independent thought. 



Biology 



Outlines of Biology. By P. Chalmers Mitchell, LL.D., F.R.S., 
F.Z.S., F.L.S., Secretary to the Zoological Society. Third Edition, 
Revised and Supplemented by Geo. P. Mudge, A.R.C.Sc.(Lond.), 
F.Z.S., Lecturer on Biology, London Hospital Medical College, Univer- 
sity of London, and at London School of Medicine for Women, University 
of London. With 1 1 Plates and numerous Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 6s. net. 
The book is primarily written to meet the needs of students preparing for 
the examinations of the Conjoint Board of the r<oyal Colleges of Physicians 
and Surgeons of England. But it covers to a great extent the syllabuses of 
other examining bodies and students reading for the L.L.A., for Durham 
University, for the Conjoint Colleges of Scotland, and for the first Medical 
examination of London University will find a great deal of the required 
ground covered by its contents. The book has been brought up to date, 
and the additional types recently introduced into the syllabus of the Con- 
joint Colleges are now included. New Chapters on Histology, on the 
structure of stem, root, and leaf, and many fresh illustrations in half-tone 
have been added. ' 

Agricultural Zoology. By Dr. J. Ritzema Bos. ''Translated by J. 
R. AiNSWORTH Davis, M.A. With 155 Illustrations. Third Edition. 
Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. 

A condensed review of the entire animal kingdom, treating in some detail 
the animals harmful or helpful to agriculture. It is a manual suitable not 
only for students, but also for the practical farmer and general reader. 

Preliminary Physiology. By William Narramore, F.L.S., 
M.R.San. Inst., Lecturer in Physiology, Hygiene, Biology, and Botany, 
Municipal Technical School, Liverpool. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. 

[ Textbooks of Science. 
This book aims at giving systematic instruction in relation to the 
essential functions of the human body. The many original drawings, 
sketches, and photomicrographs have been prepared directly from speci- 
mens. The book meets the requirements of the Board of Education, 
the Oxford and Cambridge Locals (Senior), the College of Preceptors, 
Candidates for Matriculation, and the several examinations in Physiology 
held for students in Hygiene, Physical Culture, Cookery, for nurses in 
Probation, and students preparing for examinations in Law, Insurance, 
and Accountancy, where Physiology is now demanded. 

Dairy Bacteriology. A Short Manual for Students in Dairy Schools, 
Cheese-makers, and Farmers. By Dr. Ed. von Freudenreich. 
Translated by J. R. Ainsworth Davis, M.A. Second Edition, 
Revised. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. 

A brief treatise on bacteriology as applied to dairying. For students who 
mean to become cheese-makers or dairymen, it is only necessary to get a 
general idea of bacteriology and to become familiarized with the results so 
far attained by bacteriological research as regards dairying, and the practical 
application of the same. The author has therefore introduced only so much 
of the general part of bacteriology as is absolutely necessary for the com- 
prehension of the bacteria of milk, and has made the whole as brief and 
elementary as possible. 

Insect Life. By F. V. Theobald, M.A. Illustrated. Second Edition, 
Revised. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. 

A short account of the more important characteristics of insects, dealing 
with their economic value at the same time. 



34 MESSRS. METHUEN'S 



Botany 



♦Agricultural Analysis. By D. H. Grist, Cambridge Diploma in 
Agriculture, Agricultural Instructor in the Federated Malay States. 
With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. 

A short and concise statement of the methods employed in the analysis 
of soils, fertilizers, feeding stuffs, dairy produce, and water. It is intended 
as a book of reference on the laboratory table, and for this reason all 
chemical explanations are avoided. The book should be especially useful 
by the inclusion of a section dealing with the Interpretation of results, and 
can be highly recommended to Students of Agriculture and to those con- 
nected with Agricultural Chemistry. 

An Elementary Textbook of Agricultural Botany. By M. C. 

Potter, M.A., F.L.S., Professor of Botany, Armstrong College, 

Newcastle-on-Tyne. Illustrated. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. 

A textbook of Botany intended more especially for agricultural students. 

Considerable space is devoted to vegetable physiology. 

Elementary Lessons on Plant Life. By D. G. Scott, M.Sc, 
Assistant Lecturer and Demonstrator in Botany in the University of 
Liverpool. With many Diagrams and Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. 
Designed for use in the Lower Forms of Secondary Schools, and for 
private study in the Upper Standards of Elementary Schools, the book 
will be found useful for the Oxford and Cambridge Junior Locals, the 
National Froebel Union Certificate, and other Examinations. Suggestions 
for practical work head each chapter, and special attention has been paid 
to the difficulties experienced in nature-study in town schools. 

Plant Life. Studies in Garden and School. By Horace F. Jones, 
Science Master, Uxbridge County School. With 320 Illustrations. 
Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. \Textbooks of Science. 

A handbook for teachers of botany. A large number of experiments are 
included, and full nature-study notes on all plants usually studied in the 
class-rooms are given. It is recommended by the Board of Education in 
"Suggestions on Rural Education," page 42. 

' ' This volume furnishes just the right kind of course, both in garden work 
and in class-room experiments, which is Hkely to stimulate a permanent 
interest in the mind of the pupil and lead him to continue his investigations 
after he has left school. We have great pleasure in recommending the 
book. " — Schoolmaster. 

Chemistry 

General 

A Concise History of Chemistry. By T. P. Hilditch, D.Sc. 
(London), A.I.C., F.C.S. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. [Textbooks of Science. 
Primarily intended as a help to chemical students, more particularly 
those studying for University or advanced technical examinations, this 
book will also, it is hoped, prove serviceable to general readers who may 
wish to have a concise outline of the development of chemistry. Com- 
mencing with a general survey of the chemistry of the Ancients and the 
Middle Ages, the author shows how the modern science evolved from these, 
and then proceeds to the history of the various branches — elements, 
minerals, organic, technical and physical chemistry, etc. A glossary of 
the most notable names in chemistry is added, and, as far as possible, the 
sequences of facts or theories have been summarized in tables which, 
while assisting the memory of the student preparing for examinations, may 
be omitted by the casual reader. 



LIST OF EDUCATIONAL BOOKS 3$ 

Elementary Clieinical Theory. By J. M. Wadmore, M.A., Senior 
Science Master at Aldenham School. With Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 
3s. 6d. [Textbooks of Science. 

This book is intended principally for the middle and senior students of 
Chemistry at Public and Secondary Schools. It deals, among other things, 
with the chief aspects of the atomic and molecular theories, and will be 
found most valuable in supplementing a course of practical work. 

" We know of no book on elementary chemical theory which we could 
more strongly recommend." — Journal of Education. 

" If we were asked to recommend a guide to the elements of chemical 
theory suitable for students at an early period of their work, we could 
suggest nothing better than this book." — Knowledge. 

Higher Matliematics for Chemical Students. By J. R. Partington, 
B.Sc, Graduate Scholar and Beyer Fellow of the University of Man- 
chester. With Forty-four Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 5s. 

In this book the principles of the Infinitesimal Calculus and Differential 
Equations are developed from the most elementary foundations, and with 
special reference to chemistry. Since the application of mathematics is now 
necessary, not only in physical chemistry, but also in organic and inorganic 
chemistry and metallurgy, the book is addressed to a wide circle of readers. 



Inorganic 

Preparations and Exercises in Inorganic Chemistry. By W. 
LowsoN, B.Sc, F.I.C., Assistant Lecturer and Demonstrator, Uni- 
versity of Leeds. With many Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. 

This book supplies sufficient detail for the preparation of a number of 
common and theoretically interesting inorganic substances, with the aid ot 
apparatus usually to be found in school and college laboratories. Problems 
ai-e suggested in connexion with the preparations, and a number of simple 
quantitative experiments, such as the determination of equivalents, are 
introduced. 

Salts of one or two of the more common organic acids are included, and, 
with the object of combating haphazard methods of working, great emphasis 
is laid throughout on quantitative relationships and yields. 

Elementary Experimental Chemistry. By A. E. Dunstan, D.Sc. 
(Lond.), Head of the Chemical Department, East Ham Technical 
College. With 109 Diagrams. Fifth Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 
2s. [Jtintor School Books. 

The arrangement for this book is modelled on that of ' ' Elementary 
Experimental Science." The subject is treated experimentally, and covers 
the necessary ground for Oxford and Cambridge Junior Locals, College 
of Preceptors (Second Class), and Board of Education (First Stage) 
Examinations. The author believes that the method adopted is truly 
educational. The subject is developed in a logical sequence, and wherever 
possible, historically. 

An Elementary Textbook of Inorganic Chemistry. By R. 

Lloyd Whiteley, F.LC, Principal of the Municipal Science School, 
West Bromwich. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. 

This book has been written primarily for the use of those who are com- 
mencing the Study of Theoretical Inorganic Chemistry on the lines laid 
down for Stage I. of that subject in the Syllabus issued by the Board of 
Education. The subject-matter of that Syllabus has consequently been 
fully discussed. 



36 MESSRS. METHUEN'S 

A. Jxinior Chemistry. By E. A. Tyler, B.A., F.C.S., Head of the 
Chemical Department, Swansea Technical College. With 78 Illustra- 
tions. Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. \^Junior School Books. 
The first twenty-three pages are devoted to the necessary physical laws 
and processes. The purification and properties of water are used to illus- 
trate these processes. The student is thus led by a continuous chain of 
reasoning through the preparation of pure water to the chemistry of water, 
and hence to a knowledge of the fundamental principles of chemistry. The 
middle portion of the book treats of these principles, and then follows 
the study of certain typical elements and compounds. Problems and 
Examination Papers are appended. 

A Textbook of Inorganic Chemistry. By G. Senter, D.Sc, 
Ph. D. , Lecturer at Birkbeck College, Author of * * Outlines of Physical 
Chemistry." With many Diagrams. Second Edition, Revised. Crown 
Svo, 6s. 6d. [Textbooks of Science. 

The book is designed as a general introductioh to the study of Inorganic 
Chemistry. It is written throughout from the modem standpoint, so that 
the student who has worked through it should be in a position to profit 
from the reading of original papers, and to proceed without difficulty to the 
study of advanced works on the different branches of the subject. The 
theoretical part of the subject is distributed throughout the book, and as 
far as possible the facts on which the theories and hypothesis are based are 
given before the statement of the theories themselves. The great importance 
to the student of learning to draw a clear distinction between facts and 
theories is kept in mind throughout. The book is suitable for the Inter- 
mediate and Pass B.Sc. University Examinations and other examinations 
of similar scope. 

The Complete School Chemistry. By F. M. Oldham, M.A., Senior 
Chemistry Master at Dulwich College. With 125 Illustrations. Ninth 
Edition. Crown Svo, 4s. 6d. [ Textbooks of Science. 

A complete course in practical and theoretical chemistry up to the 
standard of the London Matriculation and Army Entrance Examination. 
It is so arranged that a boy with no knowledge of chemistry may begin the 
book and use it throughout his progress up the school. Short courses on 
volumetric analysis and on the common metals are included. 

Practical Chemistry. Part I. By W. French, M.A., Examiner in 
Chemistry for the Union of Lancashire and Cheshire Institutes. Sixth 
Edition. Crown Svo, is. 6d. [Textbooks of Science. 

A course on purely inductive lines dealing with evaporations and distilla- 
tions, filtration solubility, air, water, chalk, soda, common salt, sugar, com- 
pound and simple matter, etc. 

Practical Chemistry. Part II. By W. French, M.A., and T. H. 
Boardman, M.A., Science Master at Christ's Hospital. Crown Svo, 
IS. 6d. [Textbooks of Science. 

A continuation of the above dealing with gases, laws of chemical com- 
bination, equivalents, atomic theory, molecular weights, symbols, sulphur, 
nitrogen, carbon, and their compounds, salts, acids, bases, valency. 

A Senior Experimental Chemistry. By A. E. Dunstan, D.Sc. 
(Lond.), and F. B. Thole, D.Sc. With Diagrams and Illustrations. 
Crown Svo, 5s. [ Textbooks of Science. 

This volume is intended as a supplement to the author's well-known 
textbooks, " Elementary Experimental Science" and "Elementary Experi- 
mental Chemistry." It contains sufficient matter to provide for the re- 
mainder of a boy's school career, and will build up a sound development 
of modem chemical theory on the experimental foundation of his first two 
years' work. 



LIST OF EDUCATIONAL BOOKS 37 

The treatment is based on the Periodic Classification, preceded by a 
discussion of the Atomic and Molecular Theories with the rudiments of 
Physical Chemistry, Thermochemistry, and Crystallography. The necessary 
Practical Chemistry is incorporated and a section on Qualitative Analysis 
with the elements of Volumetric Analysis completes the course. It is 
believed that this book will be of use to Second Year Students in Technical 
Institutes. 

A Textbook of Practical Chemistry for Technical Institutes. 
By A. E. DuNSTAN, D.Sc. ; and F. B. Thole, D.Sc, Lecturer in 
Organic Chemistry, East Ham Technical College. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. 

[ Textbooks of Science. 

This Course of Practical Chemistry meets the requirements of the Upper 

Forms of Secondary Schools, where a good elementary foundation has been 

laid in the rudiments of manipulation. The book will be found useful also 

for classes in Technical Institutes and will cover the following ground : — 

QuaUtative Analysis of simple substances and of mixtures, Volumetric 
Analysis, Simple Gravimetric Analysis, Preparation of Pure Compounds, 
More difficult Quantitative Analysis, Qualitative Organic Analysis, Ultimate 
Organic Analysis, General Organic Determinations, Determination of 
Physical Constants. 

An Introduction to Quantitative Analysis. By S. J. M. Auld, 
D.Sc.(Lond.), Ph.D.(Wurzburg), F.I.C., F.C.S., Head of the Chemical 
Department, South-Eastern Agricultural College, Wye. With many 
Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 5s. [Textbooks of Science. 

This book is a carefully selected study of the elements of quantitative 
analysis, providing a thorough introductory course, whereby the student is 
prepared for his more specialized analytical work, details and considerations 
of which are best obtained from the standard treatises and monographs. 

Duplication is largely avoided by giving alternative methods for subse- 
quent estimations of the same type. Special features are a theoretical 
chapter on indicators, and a description of exact laboratory methods for 
the determination of equivalents, etc. 

The textbook contains all the inorganic quantitative work required for 
the Board of Education examinations and the Inter, and Final B.Sc. Courses. 



It will be noted that a complete and consistent school course in Experimental 
Chemistry, extending over five years, can be covered from Messrs. Methuen's 
list, as follows : — 
First Year Elementary Experimental Science Chemistry Section, 

by A. E. Dunstan. 
Second Year ..... Elementary Experimental Chemistry, by A. E. 

Dunstan. 
Third and Fourth Years . A Senior Experimental Chemistry, by A. E. Dunstan. 
Fifth Year A Practical Chemistry for Technical Institutes, by A. 

E. Dunstan and F. B. Thole ; and 
A First Year Course of Organic Chemistry, by 

A. E Dunstan. 

Org^anic 

A First Year Course of Organic Chemistry. By A. E. Dunstan, 
D.Sc. With 2 Plates and many Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. 

[ Textbooks of Science. 
This book, which has not been prepared to meet the requirements of any 
particular examining body, is intended for the use of the higher forms of 
schools taking the Special Science Course, and as a first-year textbook 
in Technical Institutes. The author does not follow the conventional 
separation of Organic Chemistry into the two ipso facto inseparable domains 
of Aliphatic and Aromatic compounds, but endeavours to give a bird's-eye 
view of the more prominent features in the Science. 



38 MESSRS. METHUEN'S 

A Second Year Course of Organic Chemistry. By F. B. Thole, 
D.Sc, I^ecturer in Organic Chemistry, East Ham Technical College. 
With Plates and Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. 
, \Textbooks of Science. 

This book forms Vol. II. of a series designed to meet the requirements of 
students in technical institutes. It deals with that portion of the subject 
necessary for the second year student, and covers the syllabus for Stage II. 
of the examination held by the Board of Education. It is hoped, however, 
that it will be found useful for those students taking the first year of their 
B.Sc. Course. 

The book contains an account of the properties of the carbo-cyclic 
compounds, their general synthesis, and their utilisation for industrial and 
scientific purposes. Questions of constitution and the chief reactions 
associated with this class of compound are fully discussed and carefully 
explained. 

A Third Year Course of Organic Chemistry. By T. P. Hilditch, 
D.Sc.(Lond.), F.I.C., Author of "A Concise History of Chemistry." 
With Plates and Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 6s. [ Textbooks of Science. 

This book completes the course of organic chemistry whose earlier stages 
have been dealt with by Dr Dunstan (Part I.) and Mr. Thole (Part II.). 
It is occupied for the most part with the systematic study of the different 
groups of heterocyclic compounds, especially those of practical or com- 
mercial value. The alkaloids, purines, and other cyclic urea derivatives, 
and numerous important dyestuffs fall within the scope of these chapters. 
The remainder of the book deals with the polypeptides, the terpenes, and 
some general problems such as the characteristics of residual affinity. The 
work is suited to the needs of honours students in this subject, either for the 
B. Sc. or the Board of Education examinations. 
Qualitative Organic Analysis. By F. B. Thole, D.Sc. With an 
Introduction by A. E. Dunstan, D.Sc. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. 

[ Textbooks of Science. 

This book is reprinted, with additions, from the authors' " Practical 
Chemistry for Technical Institutes " in such a form as to be self-contained. 
It deals with Organic Qualitative Analysis, both of simple compounds and 
mixtures. A large range of organic derivatives is dealt with, and the author 
confidently believes that the scheme will carry a student through the Organic 
Section of his Honours Degree Course. 

A complete list of melting and boiling points is given, the substances 
being classified into their groups. Throughout conciseness and compact- 
ness have been aimed at, so that the student will have the information 
needed always at hand in an accessible form. 

Modem Research in Organic Chemistry. By F. G. Pope, B.Sc 
(Lond.), F.C.S. With 261 Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. 

[ Textbooks of Science. 
This volume is an attempt to bring, in a concise form, the development 
of some of the more important branches of organic chemistry before the 
chemical student. The results of the most recent research work are 
embodied in the text, and a bibliography is given at the end of each 
chapter, so that the student may be able to make use of current literature. 

Physical 

Practical Physical Chemistry. By J. B. Firth, M.Sc, late Dalton 
Chemical Scholar, Manchester University ; Assistant Lecturer and 
Demonstrator in Chemistry, Armstrong College, Newcastle-on-Tyne. 
Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. 

The above book has been written not only to familiarize the student with 
the practical methods of the science, but also to enable him to demonstrate 
for himself many of the points of which hitherto he has had only theoretical 
knowledge. Typical experiments are described with all necessary practical 
details for carrying them out. 



LIST OF EDUCATIONAL BOOKS 39 

A First Year Physical Chemistry. By T. P. Hilditch, D.Sc. 
(Lond.), F.I.C. Crown 8vo, 2s. [Textbooks of Science, 

An attempt to render this branch of chemistry more easy to those 
commencing its study. The more elementary outlines of the subject are 
treated, as far as possible, from the standpoint of practical use in solving 
chemical problems ; accordingly, the first part of the book is devoted to 
characteristic properties such as density or refractivity. Later chapters 
include introductions to the physico-chemical theories of gases and of 
solutions and the more important applications of these theories to pure 
chemistry. The book should prove useful to Inter. B.Sc. and Final (Pass) 
B.Sc. candidates, as well as those taking Board of Education examinations. 

Outlines of Physical Chemistry. By George Senter, D.Sc, 
Ph.D., Lecturer in Chemistry at Birkbeck College. With many 
Diagrams. Fifth Edition, Revised. 5s. [Textbooks of Science. 

This book is designed to serve as a general introduction to Physical 
Chemistry, and is specially adapted to the needs of electrical engineers, to 
whom an acquaintance with the general principles of this subject is becoming 
of increasing importance. Particular attention is devoted to the theory of 
solutions and to the modern developments of electro-chemistry. Only 
an elementary knowledge of mathematics is assumed. 

Physico-chemical Calculations. By Joseph Knox, D.Sc, Lecturer 
on Inorganic Chemistry, Aberdeen University. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. 

[ Textbooks of Science. 
This book is intended for students of physical chemistry, as a supplement 
to the theoretical matter of lectures and textbooks. Here the theory is 
applied to the solution of practical problems. The book contains eleven 
chapters, dealing with the main subdivisions of physical chemistry. Each 
chapter consists of a short introduction dealing with the theory required for 
the solution of the problems, a series of typical problems with complete 
solutions, and a list of problems for solution with answers. Practically 
all the problems have been taken from the original literature of the subject, 
and by a careful study of the solved problems the student should learn much. 
The large collection of problems for solution should prove useful to teachers. 



General Science 

Elementary Experimental Science. Physics by W. T. Clough, 
A.R.C.S., Head of the Physics and Electrical Engineering Department, 
East Ham Technical College ; Chemistry by A. E. Dunstan, D.Sc. 
With 2 Plates and 154 Diagrams. Fifteenth Edition. Crown 8vo, 
2s. 6d. [Junior School Books. 

This book is primarily intended for the use of candidates taking Experi- 
mental Science in the Junior Local Examinations. It will also be found of 
use to those competing for County Council Intermediate Scholarships, and 
as a general textbook in Science Schools. The great majority of the 
Diagrams have been specially drawn. 

Practical Science for Engineering Students. By H. Stanley, 

B.Sc, London and Bristol ; F.I.C. Lecturer in the Merchant Venturers' 
Technical College, Bristol. Crown 8vo, 3s. 

This book is intended for Technical School "Course" students in the 
earlier part of their training, and for use in Trade Schools. It contains a 
series of experiments in Heat, Mechanics, and in Magnetism and Electricity, 
together with some general experiments embodying important principles. 
Theoretical notes are appended where opportune, and there is a set of 
examples at the end of each section. 



40 MESSRS. METHUEN'S 

Preliminary Practical Science. By H. Stanley, B.Sc. Crown 
8vo, IS. 6d. 

This little handbook is intended for use in the lower forms in trade schools 
and for technology students in all branches who are entering on a course of 
science study with a view to a better understanding of their work. 

Elementary Science for Pupil Teachers. Physics Section by 
W. T. Clough; Chemistry Section by A. E. Dunstan. With 
many Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2s. [ Textbooks of Science. 

A textbook to meet the new requirements of the Elementary Science section 
of the Preliminary Examination for the Certificate on the same lines as 
" Elementary Experimental Science." 

General Elementary Science. By J. T. Dunn, D.Sc, and V. A. 
MuNDELLA, Principal of Sunderland Technical College. With 114 
Illustrations. Second Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. 

An intermediate course in Physics and Chemistry for London Matricula- 
tion. It is the textbook adopted by the Admiralty for Elementary Science 
at Greenwich College. 

The World of Science. By R. Elliot Steel, M.A., F.C.S., Science 
Master at Sherborne School. With 147 Illustrations. Second Edition. 
Crown Svo, 2s. 6d. 

An elementary account of Chemistry, Heat, Light, Sound, Magnetism, 
Electricity, Botany, Zoology, Physiology, Astronomy, and Geology written 
in an interesting manner for children. 



Geology 



The Scientific Study of Scenery. By J. E. Mark, F.R.S., Fellow of 
St. John's College, Cambridge. Fourth Edition, Revised. Illustrated. 
Crown Svo, 6s. 

An elementary treatise on geomorphology for geographers. As far as 
^,' possible technical terms have been avoided. 

Agricultural Gteology. ByJ. E. Mark, F.R.S. Illustrated. Cr. Svo, 6s. 
A textbook of geology for agricultural students, more especially such as 
are preparing for the International Diploma in agriculture. 



Phy 



SICS 



Practical Applied Physics. By H. Stanley, B.Sc. With many 
Diagrams. Crown Svo, 3s. 

This book is for the use of engineering students and others who are 
doing laboratory work beyond the elementary stages, particularly in heat, 
mechanics, and electricity. The earlier section deals with some graphical 
methods leading up to the calculus and the solution of some differential 
equations which are employed later. 

First Year Physics. By C. E. Jackson. With 51 Illustrations. 
Third Edition. Crown Svo, is. 6d. {Textbooks of Science. 

This book deals with such subjects as may reasonably be included in a 
first year course of Physics for Secondary Schools, — the processes of measure- 
ment and the elementary principles of Hydrostatics and Mechanics. 

Examples in Physics. By C. E. Jackson, M.A., Senior Physics 
Master at Bradford Grammar School, Third Edition. Crown Svo, 
2s. 6d. [ Textbooks of Science. 

A collection of over one thousand original problems on Mensuration, 
Hydrostatics, Mechanics, Heat, Light, Magnetism, Frictional Electricity, 
Current Electricity and Sound, covering the average Physics course in 
Secondary Schools. 



LIST OF EDUCATIONAL BOOKS 41 

The Principles of Magnetism and Electricity. By P. L. Gray, 
B,Sc. An Elementary Textbook. With 181 Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 
3s. 6d. 

Although not written to any special syllabus, the book will approximately 
cover the requirements of the Advanced Stage of the Board of Education 
Examination, and London B.Sc. Pass Examination. It is well illustrated 
with sketches such as a student may, with a little practice, draw for himself 
from the actual apparatus. 

Examples in Elementary Mechanics, Practical, Graphical, and 
Theoretical. By W. J. Dobbs, M.A. With 52 Diagrams. Crown 
8vo. 5s. {Textbooks of Science. 

This book is intended for use at Schools and Technical Institutes, for 
Army and Navy Candidates and Students of Engineering. It consists of 
some 1400 examples in Elementary Statics and Kinetics exhibiting the latest 
development in the methods of teaching these subjects. But it is something 
more than a mere collection of examples, being designed for use without an 
accompanying textbook. The preparation and use of simple inexpensive 
apparatus is described, and the numerous practical examples requiring the 
use of such apparatus have been found to give satisfactory results. 

Weighing and Measuring. A Short Course of Practical Exercises in 
Elementary Mathematics and Physics, by W. J. Dobbs, M.A., Assistant 
Master at Oundle School. With 47 Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 2s. 

Contents. I. Measurement of Length ; II. Weighing; III. Measure- 
ment of Area; IV. Measurement of Volume; V. Density and Specific Gravity. 

This volume covers that common ground between Elementary Mathema- 
tics and Physics which is necessary to give reality to the former, and which 
is indispensable before taking up any serious study of the latter. By common 
consent, a course of Weighing and Measuring is now an essential part of 
school training in Elementary Mathematics. Care has been taken to keep 
the scope of the book well within the reach of the great majority of senior 
school children of both sexes. 

Practical Mechanics. By Sidney H. Wells, Wh.Sc, A.M.Inst.C.E., 
late Principal of the Battersea Polytechnic, London. An Elementary 
Manual for the use of Students in Science and Technical Schools and 
Classes. With 75 Illustrations and Diagrams. Sixth Edition. Crown 
8vo, 3s. 6d. [ Textbooks of Science. 

A laboratory handbook containing all the mechanics part of the ele- 
mentary science syllabus of the Headmasters' Association and the London 
Matriculation. 

A Handbook of Physics. By W. H. White, M.A., B.Sc, A.R.C.Sc, 
Lecturer at the East London College and St. Mary's Hospital Medical 
School, Examiner in the University of London, etc. With over 300 
Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. [ Textbooks of Science. 

The book traces the establishment of the Principles of Physics and draws 
from modern everyday life abundant instances of their application, instead 
of giving detailed descriptions of time-honoured experiments. It amply 
covers the ground of the "Intermediate" examinations of London and 
other British Universities. 

Physics Examination Papers. By R. Elliot Steel, M.A., Science 
Master at Sherborne School. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. 

[School Examination Series. 
Papers on Sound, Light, Heat, Magnetism, and Electricity. Both book 
work and problems aie included. 



42 MESSRS. METHUEN'S 

TECHNOLOGY 

{See also ttnder ^^ Domestic Science") 

A Textbook of Elementary Building Construction. By Arthur 
R. Sage, Lecturer in Building Construction and Mechanics of Building, 
L.C.C. School of Building, and William E. Fretwell, Lecturer in 
Plumbers' Work, Sanitary Engineering and Heating and Ventilating, 
L.C.C. School of Building. With many Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 
3s. 6d. net. 

This book is intended for students of Elementary Building Construction 
as a first year's course, leading up to the Lower Examination of the Board 
of Education. It should also be useful to students preparing for the various 
professional examinations, of which building construction and sanitary 
engineering form part. 

A Woodwork Class-Book. Beginner's Course. By H. Hey, Inspector 
of Day Manual and of Technological Classes, Surrey Education 
Committee, and G. H. Rose, Head Master, Coulsdon Council School, 
City and Guilds Woodwork Teacher. With full Diagrams and Photo- 
graphs. 410, 2S, 

In this class-book the work is arranged on a threefold plan of Correlated 
Lessons in Drawing, Tools and Materials, and School Workshop Practice, 

Manual Training Drawing (Woodwork). Its Principles and Ap- 
plication, with Solutions to Examination Questions, 1892-1905, Ortho- 
graphic, Isometric, and Oblique Projection. By F. Sturch, Staff 
Instructor to the Surrey County Council. With 50 Plates and 140 
Figures. Fcap., 5s. net. 

A guide to the Examinations in Manual Training Woodwork of the City 
and Guilds of London Institute, the Board of Examinations for Educational 
Handwork, and the Examinations of the N.U.T., and for use in Secondary 
Schools and Training Colleges. It deals with the requirements in Geo- 
metrical and Mechanical Drawing of the Educational Department, University 
of London, London Chamber of Commerce, etc. 

Carpentry and Joinery. By F. C. Webber, Chief Lecturer to the 

Building Trades Department of the Merchant Venturers' Technical 

. College at Bristol. With 176 Illustrations. Sixth Edition. Crown 

8vo, 3s. 6d. [ Textbooks of Technolog)>. 

An elementary textbook suitable for the Preliminary Grade of the City and 

Guilds of London Institute and as a book of reference for the apprentice. 

Builders' Quantities. By H. C. Grubb, Lecturer at Beckenham 
Technical Institute. With numerous Diagrams. Second Edition, 
Revised. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. [Textbooks of Technology. 

This treatise has been compiled to assist students who are preparing for 
the examination in Builders' Quantities, held by the City and Guilds of 
London Institute. 

Engineering Workshop Practice. By Charles C. Allen, Head 
of the Department of Engineering, Technical Institute, Auckland. 
With 152 Illustrations. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. 

[ Textbooks of Technology. 
This deals with the manufacturing operations employed in modern work- 
shops, and is intended chiefly for students who have opportunities of both 
examining and using the machines and tools required. 

B^pouss^ Metal Work. By A. C. Horth. With Diagrams and 8 

Plates. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. [Textbooks of Technology. 

This book provides students with a graded scheme of Sheet Metal Work 

for Schools, containing all the information necessary to those wishing to 

become expert. 



LIST OF EDUCATIONAL BOOKS 43 

Electric Light and Power. By E. E. Brooks, B.Sc.(Lond.), Head 
of the Department of Physics and Electrical Engineering, Leicester 
Municipal Technical School, and W. H. N. James, A.R.C.S., 
A.M. I.E.E., Lecturer in Electrical Engineering, Municipal School 
of Technology, Manchester. With 17 Plates and 230 Illustrations. 
Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. {Textbooks of Technolo^^. 

This work is an introduction to the study of Electrical Engineering, no 
previous knowledge being assumed, and very little mathematics being required. 
It is intended mainly for students employed in electrical industries. 

An Introduction to the Study of Textile Design. By Aldred 
F. Barker, Head of the Textile Department, Bradford Technical 
College. With numerous Illustrations and Diagrams. Second Edition. 
Demy 8vo, 7s. 6d. [ Textbooks of Technology. 

This work includes within its pages the information which the student of 
Textile Design should seek to thoroughly master during the first two years 
he attends the Textile School. 

A Textbook dealing with (huamental Design for Woven 
Fabrics. By C. Stephenson, of the Bradford Technical College, and F. 
SuDDARDS, of the Yorkshire College, Leeds. With 66 Full-page Plates 
and numerous Diagrams in the Text. Third Ed. Demy 8vo, 7s. 6d. 

The subject-matter is arranged as far as possible in progressive order, 
and always with due regard to the practical application of ornament to the 
weaving process. Several chapters are devoted to the various methods of 
building up all-over repeating patterns. 

Gas Testing and Air Measurement: A Manual for Deputies, 
Miners, etc. By Charles Chandley, M.Inst. M.E. (of Nottingham). 
Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo, is. 6d. 

This book gives in concise form the requirements of the Coal Mines Act, 
191 T, and of the Home Office in respect of what is commonly known as the 
"Fireman's" or "Deputy's" Certificate. 

Gearing : A Practical Treatise. By A. E. Ingham. With many Dia- 
grams, Illustrations, Formuloe, and Useful Tables. Demy 8vo, 53. net. 
The author has devoted separate chapters to spvu", bevel, worm, spiral, 
and helical gears, and the information given in each section will be invalu- 
able to all who are interested in this important branch of engineering. The 
Appendix contains useful information, together with a complete set of tables 
of tangents and cotangents, sines and cosines, which are given in minutes, 
and to five places in decimals. 



Messrs. Methuen's Series 

Particulars of the following Books will be found in the First Section of this 
Catalogue, under the Subjects. Further Series will be fotmd under the Subjects, 
namely, Simplified French Texts, p. 12 ; Advanced French Texts, p. ij ; New 
Geographical Series, p. 14; Simplified German Texts, p. 16; School County 
Histories, p. 21 ; Six Ages of European History, p. 24; Simplified Latin Texts, 
p. 2g ; Methuen's Nature Books, p. J2. 

The Beginner's Books 

Edited by Canon W. WILLIAMSON, B.A., F.R.S.L. 
A series of elementary class books for beginners of seven to twelve years, or there- 
abouts. They are adapted to the needs of preparatory schools, and are suitable for 
the use of candidates preparing for the Oxford and Cambridge Preliminary Local and 
the College of Preceptors' Examinations. The series will be especially useful to lead 
up to Methuen's^ Junior School Books. The author of each book has had consider- 
able experience in teaching the subject, while special attention has been paid to the 
arrangement of the type and matter, which is as clear and concise as possible. The 
books are beautifully printed and strongly bound. 



MESSRS. METHUEN'S 



The Beginner's Books — continued 



Rhymes. 



H. 



Easy French 

Blouet. is. 
Easy Stories from Eng^lish His- 
tory. E. M. WILMOT-BUXTON. IS. 

Stories from Roman History. 

E. M. WiLMOT-BuXTON. IS. 6d. 

stories from the Old Testa- 
ment. E. M. WiLMOT- Buxton. 
IS. 6d. 

Stories from the New Testa- 
ment. E. M. WiLMOT-BuXTON. is.6d. 



A First Course in English. W. 

S. Beakd. IS. 6d 
A First History of Greece. £. £. 

FlKTH. IS. 6d. 

Easy Exercises in Arithmetic 

W. S. Beard. Without Answers, is. ; 

With Answers, is. 3d. 
Easy Dictation and Spelllnsr* 

W. Williamson, is. 
An Easy Poetry Book. W. 
"^ Williamson, is. 



Classical Translations 



Edited by H. F. FOX, M.A., Fellow and Tutor of Brasenose College, Oxford 

Crown 8vo 

A series of Translations from the Greek and Latin Classics, distinguished by literary 
excellence as well as by scholarly accuracy. 



/Eschylus — Agamemnon, Choe- 
phoroe, Eumenides. Translated by L. 
Campbell. 5s. 

Cicero — De Oratore I. Trans- 
lated by E. N. P. Moor. 3s. 6d. 

Cicero— Select Orations. Trans- 
lated by H. E. D. Blakiston. 5s. 

Cicero — De Natura Dp:orum. 
Translated by F. Brooks. 3s. 6d. 

Cicero — De Officiis. Translated 
by G. B. Gardiner, as. 6d. 



Horace — The Odes and Epodes. 
Translated by A. D. Godley. 2s. 

Lucian— Six Dialogues. Trans- 
lated by S. T. Irwin. 3s. 6d. 

Sophocles — AjAx and Electra. 
Translated by E. D. Morshead. 2s. 6d. 

Tacitus — Agricola and Ger- 
mania. Translated by R. B. Townshenu. 
2S. 6d. 

Thirteen Satires of Juvenal. 
Translated by S. G. Owen. 2s. 6d. 



Commercial Series 



Edited by H. de B. GIBBINS, Litt.D., M.A. 
Crown 8vo 

A series intended to assist students and young men preparing for a commercial 
career, by supplying useful handbooks of a clear and practical character, dealing with 
those subjects which are absolutely essential in the business life. 



The Principles of Booic-keepingr 
by Double Entry. J. E. B. 
M 'Allen. 2s. 

French Commercial Correspon- 
dence. S. E. Bally. 2s. 

German Commercial Corre- 
spondence. S. E. Bally. 2s. 6d. 

A Qerman Commercial Reader. 
S. E. Bally. 2s. 

A Commercial Geography of 
Foreigrn Nations. F. C. Boon. 2s. 

Commercial La^Mr. W. D. 

Edwards. 2s. 

British Commerce and Colonies 
from Elizabeth to Victoria. 

H. de B. GiBBINS. 2S. 



The Economics of Commerce. 

H. DE B. Gibbins. is. 6d. 

Commercial Examination 
Papers. H. de B. Gibbins. is. 6d. 

A Primer of Business. S. Jack- 
son. New and Revised Edition, is. 6d. 

An Entrance Guide to Profes- 
sions and Business. H. Jones. 
IS. 6d. 

A Commercial Geogrraphy of 
the British Empire. L. W. 

LyDE. 2S. 

A Short Commercial Arithmetic 

F. G. Taylor, is. 6d. 
Precis Writing: and OfRce Cor- 
respondence. E. E. Whitfield. 



LIST OF EDUCATIONAL BOOKS 



45 



Junior Examination Series 

Edited by A. M. M. STEDMAN, M.A. 

Fcap. 8vo, IS. 
This series is intended to lead up to the School Examination Series, and is for the use 
of teachers and pupils in Lower and Middle Forms, to supply material for the former and 
practice for the latter. The papers are carefully graduated, cover the whole of the subject 
usually taught, and are intended to form part of the ordinary class work. They may be 
used viva voce or as a written examination. 



Junior Scripture Exam i nation 
Papers: Old Testament. S. A- 

P. Kermode and W. Williamson. 
Junior Scripture Exannination 

Papers ; New Testament. A. 

G. Walpole-Sayer and W. William- 
son. 
Junior French Examination 

Papers. F. Jacob. 
Junior Eng'lish Examination 

Papers. W. Williamson. 
Junior Arithmetic Examination 

Papers. W. S. Beard. 
Junior Algebra Exannination 

Papers. S. W. Finn. 



Junior Greek Examination 
Papers. T. C. Weatherhead. 

Junior Latin Examination 
Papers. C. G. Botting. 

A Key to the above. 3s. 6d. net. 

Junior General information 
Examination Papers. W. S. 
Beard. 
A Key to the above. 3s. 6d. net. 

Junior Geography Examina- 
tion Papers. W. G. Baker. 

Junior German Examination 
Papers. A. Voegelin. 

Junior History Examination 
Papers. W. O. P. Davies. 



Junior School Books 



Edited by O. D. INSKIP, LL.D., and Canon W. WILLIAMSON, B.A. 

A series of school class books. They are adapted to the needs of the Lower and Middle 
Forms of the Public Schools, and are suitable for the use of candidates preparing for the 
Oxford and Cambridge Junior Local Examinations. 

A Junior German Grammar. 

H. C. A. Seckler. 2s. 6d. 
Elementary Experimental 
Science. Physics by W. T. 
Clough; Chemistry by A. E. 

DUNSTAN. 2S. 6d. 

Elementary Experimental 

Chemistry. A. E. Dunstan. 2s. 
A Junior Chemistry. E. A. 

Tyler. 2s. 6d. 
A Junior French Grammar. 

L. A. SoRNET and M. J. Acatos. 2s. 
A Junior French Prose. R. 

R. N. Baron. 2s. 
A Junior Geometry. N. S. 

LYDON. 2S. 

A School Latin Grammar. H. G. 

Ford. 2s. 6d. 
Eng^iish Literature -for Schools. 

E. E. Firth. 2s. 6d. 



A Class-Book of Dictation 

Passagres. W. Williamson, ts. 6d. 

The First Book of Kings. A. £. 

RUBIE. 2S. 

The Gospel according: to St. 

Matthew. Edited by E. W. South. 

IS. 6d. 
The Gospel according to St. 

Mark. Edited by A. E. Rubie. is. 6d. 
The Gospel according: to St. 

Luke. Edited by W. Williamson. 2s. 
The Acts of the Apostles. Edited 

by A. E. Rubie. 2s. 
A Junior Eng:lish Grammar. 

W. WlLI.IAM.SON. 2S. 

A Junior Greek History. W. H. 

Sl'KAGGK. 2S. 6d. 

A Junior Latin Prose. H. N. 

Asm AN. 2s. 6d. 



Methuen's Historical Readers 

Illustrated. Crown 8vo. 
This is a new series of History Readers on concentric lines 

The Pag:eant of British History. By E. M. Wilmot-Buxton, 

F.R.Hist.S. IS. 6d. 
The Romance of British History; or, Britain's Rise from Savagery to 

Civilization. By Josiah Turner, is. 6d. 

The Growth of Modern Britain. An Outline History of the British People 
from 1830 to 1910. By B. H. Sutton. 2S. 



MESSRS. METHUEN'S 



Methuen's New Historical Series 

Edited bv the Rev. H. N. ASMAN, M.A., B.D. 

These are the first volumes of a new historical series for Schools under the General 
Eciitorship of the Rev. H. N. Asman, M.A., B.D., Second Master of Owen's School, 
Islington* The series is on the lines of the recent Circular of the Board of Education on the 
teaching of history. 

A History of Eng^land -for Schools. In Three Volumes. Crown 8 vo, 
2s. 6d. each. Vol. I., to 1485. Ry H. J. Cape, M.A. Vol. II., 1485-1714. By L. 
Oldekshaw, M.A. Vol. III., 1714-1910. By E. Bowver, B.A. 

Stories from Ancient History. By E. BowYER, B..\., B.Sc, Assistant 
Master Owen's vSchool. Crown Svo, is. 6d. 

Stories from iModern History. By E. M. Wilmot-Buxton, F.R.Hist..S. 
Crown Svo, is. 6d. 



School Examination Series 

Edited by A. M. M. STEDMAN, M.A. 
Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d. 

These books are intended for the use of teachers and students— to supply material for 
the former, and practice for the latter. The papers are carefully graduated, cover the 
whole of the subject usually taught, and are intended to form part of the ordinary class work. 

tion Papers. A. M. M. Stedmak. 

Key. 7s. net. 
Examination Papers in Engrlisli 

History. J. Tait Wakdlaw. 
Trig^onomctry Examination 

Papers. Rev. G. W. Ward, M.A. 
i Key. 5s. net. 

j Exercises and Examinaticn 
j Papers in AritFirrtetfc, Logra- 
I rithms, and Mensuration. 
I C. Pendlebury, M.A. Key. 5s. net. 
I Examination Papers in Booic- 
j iceeping:. J. T. Medhurst. 3s. 
I Key, 2s. 6d. net. 



French Examination Papers. 

A. M. M. Stedman. Key. 6s. net. 

Latin Examination Papers. 
A. M. M. Stedman. Key. 6s. net. 

Greek Examination Papers. 
A. M. M. Sted.man. Key. 6s. net. 

German Examination Papers. 
R. J. MoKiCH. Key. 6s. net. 

History and Gcograpiiy Exam- 
ination Papers. C. H. Sfence. 

Piiysics Examination Papers. 
R. E. Steel. 

General Knowiedgre Examina- 



Stories from the Histories 

Edited by E. M. WILMOT-BUXTON, F.R.Hist.Soc 

With a Map. Crown Svo, is. 6d. each 

This series will embrace the history of all the chief countries of the world. It is hoped 
that by supplying a series of interesting stories these volumes will promote a desire for a 
more detailed knowledge and remove the general complaint that English children grow up 
ignorant of the great events and characters in the history of other nations. The first 
volumes are : — 

Tales from Irish History. | Stories from French History. 

A. BiHicHEAD, B..\. j Taylor Dyso.nt, M.A. 

Stories from Scottish History. Stories from American History. 

E. M. Wilmot-Buxton. Alice Birkhead. 



LIST OF EDUCATIONAL BOOKS 



47 



Stories from the Great Writers 

Edited by E. M. WILMOT-BUXTON, F.R.Hist.Soc. 

Crown 8vo, is. 6d. each 

In this series incidents have been selected from the works of the best writers and 
abridged or retold to make them appeal to children. It is hoped that these stories will 
kindle a love for the works of the best writers and stimulate children to read, after 
schooldays, the originals and others by these authors. The first volumes are : — 

Stories from Dickens. Joyce | Stories from Ctiaucer. Ada 

Cobb. I Hales. 

Stories from Bunyan. Edith L. Elias. 



Stories from Old Romance 

Edited by E. M. WILMOT-BUXTON, F.R.Hist.Soc 

Crown 8vo. is. 6d. each 

These volumes will serve as an introduction to world literature as well as form literary 
readers that will appeal to children between the ages of eight and twelve in all classes of 
schools. They will also be found suitable gift-books for all young lovers of stirring 
romance and tales of chivalry. The first volumes are : — 

Stories from Old French Ro- I Stories from Old Eng:lish Ro- 
mance. E. M. WiLMOT- Buxton. I mance. Joyce Pollard. 
Stories from Old Italian Romance. Susan Cunnington. 



Textbooks of Science 

Fully Illustrated. Crown 8vo 
A series of textbooks for Secondary Schools and Schools of Science 
W. 



A Prelinnmary Physioiosyc 

Narkamoke. 3S. 6d. 
Plant Life. H. F. Jones. 3s. 6d. 
A Concise History of Chemistry. 

T. P. Hn.DrrcH. 2s. 6d. 
Elementary Chentical Theory. 

J. M. W.ADMORK. 3s. 6d. 

A Textbook of inorsranic Chem- 
istry. G. Sp:nti;r. 6s. 6d. 

T^cCompIete School Cheniistry. 

F. M. Oldham. 4s. 6d. 

Practical Chemistry. Part I, 
W. French, is. 6d. 

Practical Chemistry. Part II, W. 
French and T. H. Boardman. is. 6d. 

A Senior Experitrtental Chem- 
istry. A. E. Dunstan and F. E. 
Thole. 5s. 

A Textbook of Practical Chem- 
istry for Technical Insti- 
tutes. A. E. Dunstan and F. B. 
Thole. 3s. 6d. 

An Introduction to Quantitative 
Analysis. S. J. M. Auld. 5s. 

A First Year Course of Org^anic 
Chemistry. A. E. Di nstan. 2s. 6d. 

ASecond YearCourse of Org'anic 
Chemistry, F. B. Thole. 2s. 6d. 



A Third Year Course of Org^anic 
Chemistry, T. P. Hiluitch. 6s. 

Qualitative Orgranic Analysis. 

F. B. Thole, is. 6d. 

Modern Research in Organic 
Chemistry. F. G. Pope. 7s. 6d. 

A First Year Physical Chem- 
istry. T. P. HiLDITCH. 2S. 

Outlines of Physical Chemistry. 

G. Senter. New Edition. 5s. 
Physico-chemical Calculations. 

J. Knox. 2s. 6d. 

Elementary Science for Pupil 
Teachers. W. T. Clough and A. 

E. bUNSTAN. 2S. 

Examples in Physics. C. E. 

Jackson. 2s. 6d. 

First Year Physics. C. E. Jack- 
son. IS. 6d. 

Examples in Elementary 
Mechanics. W. J. Dobbs. 5s. 

Practical Mechanics. S. H. 

Wells. 3s. 6d. 
A Handbook of Physics. W. H. 

White. 7s. 6d. 

Technical Arithmetic and 

Geometry. C. T. Millis. 3s. 6d. 



48 MESSRS. METHUEN'S EDUCATIONAL BOOKS 



Textbooks of Technology 

FuUv Illustrated. Crown 8vo 



How to Make a Dress. J. A. E. 

Wood. is. 6d. 
Carpentry and Joinery. 

Webber. 3s. 6d. 
Millinery, Theoretical 

Practical. C. Hill. 2s. 
Instruction in Cooicery. 

Thompson. 2s. 6d. 
An Introduction to the Study 

of Textile Desisrn. A. F. Bakker. 

Demy 8vo, 7s. 6d. 



F. C. 
and 



A. P. 



Builders' Quantitii 

Gruiuj. 4S. 6d. 



R^pouss^ Metal 

HORTH. 2S. 6d. 



Work. A. 



Electric Li^ht and Power. 

E. E. Brooks and W. H. N. James. 
4S. 6d. 

Ensrineering^WorkshopPractice. 

C. C. Allen. 3s. 6d. 



A History of England 

IN SEVEN VOLUMES 

Edited by Charles Oman, M.A. 
With Maps. Demy 8vo, los. 6d. net, each Volume 

I. England before the Norman Conquest. By Charles Oman^ 
M.A., Fellow of All Souls', Chichele Professor of Modern History 
at Oxford. Third Edition, Revised. 

II. England under the Normans and Angevins (1066-1272). 
By H. W. C. Davis, Fellow and Tutor of Balliol College, some- 
time Fellow of All Souls', Author of "Charlemagne." Fourth 
Edition, Revised. 

III. England in the Later Middle Ages (1272-1485). By 

Kenneth H. Vickers, M.A., Professor of Modern History in the 
University of Durham. Second Edition, Revised. 

IV. England under the Tudors (1485-1603). By Arthur D. 

Innes. Fourth Edition. 

V. England under the Stuarts (1603-1714). By G. M. Trevel- 
yan, late Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. Sixth Edition. 

VI. England under the Hanoverians (1714-1815). By C. Grant 
Robertson, Fellow of All Souls', Tutor in Modern History to 
M^dalen College, Examiner in the School of Modern History in 
the University of Oxford. Second Edition. 

VII. England since Waterloo (1816-1900). By J. A. R. Marriott, 
Fellow of Worcester College, Oxford ; Lecturer and Tutor in Modem 
History and Political Science. Second Edition, Revised. 



METHUEN & CO. LTD., 36 Essex Street, London, W.C. 



/'> ^ **; 



to 
o 






•H 



O 
O 

o 

CO 

m o 

Xi CD 

H CD 

CD 'H 
P:^ '.0 







O 

u 
o 



S o 



University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



1. 



