w 



The Healthy Marriage 

A MEDICAL AND PSYCHOLOGICAL 
GUIDE FOR WIVES 



BY 



G. T. WRENCH, M.D. B.S. (LOND.) 

PAST ASSISTANT-MASTER OF THE ROTUNDA HOSPITAL, 
DUBLIN J 

AUTHOR OF "PRACTICAL OBSTETRICS," "MIDWIFERY 
FOR NURSES," " THE MASTERY OF LIFE," " LORD LISTER, 

HIS LIFE AND WORK," ETC. 



SECOND EDITION 




TORONTO 

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY OF 
CANADA LTD. 

1916 



Printed in Great Britain. 



TO 

MY MOTHER-IN-LAW 

WITH 
AFFECTION AND ESTEEM. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

CHAPTER I. 

THE VALUE OF MARRIAGE. 

PAGE 

Marriage and Economics Oriental Marriage 
Modern Marriage Marriage and Social Quality 
Age to Marry Disadvantages of Late Marriage 
Risks of Early Marriage People who should 
not Marry .... . . . i 29 

CHAPTER II. 
THE HYGIENE OF MARRIAGE. 

The Honeymoon Married Happiness dependent upon 
Marital Physiology Continence The Limita- 
tion of Offspring Childless Marriage . . 30 49 

CHAPTER III. 
STERILITY. 

Male and Female Sterility Congenital and Acquired 

Sterility. ...... 50 57 

CHAPTER IV. 

NEUROSIS. 

Modern Confusion The Condition of being Highly 
Strung Faulty Physiology Protean Symptoms 

5866 

CHAPTER V. 

EXERCISE. 

Difficulty of getting Exercise in Towns Walking 
Sports and Games Gymnastics Dancing 
Exercise during Pregnancy . . . 67 86 



Table of Contents 

CHAPTER VI. 
FOOD AND DRINK. 

PAGE 

Food in Towns Alcohol Alcohol and Conception 

8798 

CHAPTER VII. 

FRESH AIR AND VENTILATION. 

The World's Ventilation House Venilation . 99 1 10 

CHAPTER VIII. 

WARMING AND LIGHTING. 

Fires Radiators Stoves Oil, Gas, and Electric 

Light ITT 115 

CHAPTER IX. 
BATHS AND BATHING. 

The Cold Morning Bath Hot Baths Swimming 

Baths during Menstruation and Pregnancy . 1 16 122 

CHAPTER X. 
SLEEP 123 128 

CHAPTER XL 
HOUSEKEEPING, HOBBIES AND HOME ARTS.' 

Need of Personality in Occupation Needlework 
Cooking Music The Simplification of the 
Household 129 140 

CHAPTER XII. 
DRESS. 

The Natural Protection of the Skin The Science of 

Dress The Corset Fashion . . . 141 149 
vi 



Table of Contents 

CHAPTER XIII. 

MENSTRUATION . 

PAGE 

Early and Late Onset Physiological Cycles Charac- 
ter of Flow, Normal, Excessive, Scanty, Absent 
Regularity and Irregularity Symptoms of the 
Menses Hygiene Vicarious Menstruation 
The Whites 150 178 

CHAPTER XIV. 

SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS OF PREGNANCY. 

Effect of Pregnant Period upon Child Cessation of 
the Menses Changes in the Breasts Sickness 
and Nausea Pigmentary Changes Quickening 
Enlargement of the Abdomen Other Sym- 
ptoms Defective Elimination and its Treatment 
Hygiene and Treatment of Pregnancy . 179 204 

CHAPTER XV. 
MISCARRIAGE. 

Tendency to Neglect Miscarriage Causes and Avoid- 
ance Signs and Treatment of Miscarriage . 205 215 

CHAPTER XVI. 
THE DURATION OF PREGNANCY . . . 216 218 

CHAPTER XVII. 

THE PRE-DETERMINATION OF THE SEX OF THE 

CHILD ....... 219 221 

CHAPTER XVIII. 
THE PREPARATIONS FOR LABOUR. 

The Nurse Things needed by Mother Things 

needed by Baby The Lying-in Room . 222 227 

vii 



Table of Contents 

CHAPTER XIX. 
LABOUR. 

PACE 

The Physiology of Pregnancy and Labour The 
Onset of Labour Normal Labour The Nurse 
The Arrangement of the Bed The Three 
Stages of Labour and their Management Labour 
without a Doctor, and without a Nurse or Doctor 

228258 

CHAPTER XX. 
THE LYING-IN. 

The First Twenty-four Hours The Shrinkage of the 
Womb The Discharge The Milk and Suckling 
Diet Visitors Sleep When to get up 
Stopping the Milk .... 259 275 

CHAPTER XXI. 
LACTATION. 

The Advantages of Suckling Sore Nipples Amuse- 
ment and Employment during Suckling Period 

276 282 

CHAPTER XXII. 
THE CHANGE OF LIFE. 

Age of Onset The Alteration in the Menses Cir- 
culatory Symptoms Nervous Symptoms 
Remedies Hygiene .... 283 296 



INDEX 297 



Vlll 



THE HEALTHY MARRIAGE, 



CHAPTER I. 
The Value of Marriage. 

" No one regrets a youthful marriage." Saxon proverb. 

FOR all women, even in these days of varied 
interests, the question of marriage is the most 
important. It is true that, as European civilisa- 
tion advances, many vocations offer themselves to 
women and cause them to be given the choice 
between marriage and the non-married state. More- 
over, some women in Europe have always been born 
with an apparent aversion to or fear of marriage, an 
aversion which was fostered and perhaps created by 
the teaching, which, while sanctifying marriage as a 
holy sacrament, taught that the unmarried state of 
the nun was the holier and worthier condition. The 
monasteries in the past sheltered all those women 
who, either by nature or training, shunned marriage. 
To-day the monasteries have little influence in the 
European states of the most advanced civilisation. 
But, though the monasteries have lost their influence 
and no longer offer a career to women as an alterna- 
tive to that of the wife and mother, there remains a 
large class of women, who, while desiring to preserve 
the high respect of society, for some reason or other 
have to find careers other than marriage. For a 
long period these women in the better classes of 

H,M. I I 



The Healthy Marriage. 

society were content to remain unwed and form the 
charming and kindly folk of whom Miss Matty in 
Mrs. GaskelTs " Cranford " is the classical example. 

With the increase of economic pressure and the 
spread of education, this class has gradually come to 
claim for itself more individual rights and occupa- 
tions ; and, as fashions always filter from above 
downwards, so the desire to establish individual 
independence has spread to many less prosperous 
classes of women. 

Economic pressure has had the same effect upon 
the men. In the past parents considered it their 
duty to make provision for their sons and to save 
them from the arduous and anxious times which 
they have to suffer in their youth, if their living 
and still more the expense and responsibilities of 
wife and home fall upon them when they are 
inexperienced and incapable in the world's affairs. 
But now the change of the modern world from a 
system of tradition to a system in which each 
individual starts more or less de novo has entirely 
changed the feelings with which a youth views the 
life that is before him. Lord Bacon, whose 
philosophy one may say was almost the first notable 
expression of the modern world, showed the changed 
position in the famous saying, " He, who hath wife 
and children, hath given hostages to fortune," a 
saying which would have had little vogue or mean- 
ing in previous eras and in the countries of the older 
and more stable civilisations. In the Orient, for 
example, where Europe has not yet caused the 
adoption or imitation of her modes and habits, all 
women who desire or have to pay heed to the, 

2 



Oriental Marriage. 

respect of society, are married. The unmarried 
woman is, one reads, quite unknown, except she be 
a concubine or hold a yet lower place in man's 
esteem. The unmarried man, except in the case of 
certain priesthoods, is equally unknown. The rela- 
tion of the sexes is regarded in the East as a funda- 
mental and primary condition of life, the neglect of 
which could not be sensibly considered. Among the 
Greeks there was the same feeling, and when in 
later periods marriage became questioned the Greek 
legislators punished celibates. 

In order to permit of this general inter-relation of 
men and women, Oriental parents are obliged to 
make provision for their sons and daughters to marry 
in the freshness of their adult life. As the parents 
or family heads make material provision for the 
young people, they also claim the right to see that 
the marriage proposed is one that is suitable . In 
some countries they even arrange the marriage 
without consulting the young people, in others 
marriage is preceded and decided by the mutual 
affection or choice of the pair. The elders take upon 
themselves, in fact, the position that an English 
father would take if he were buying a business for 
his son. He would consider that his riper experience 
and the fact that he was making a gift to his son 
entitled him to the chief voice in the decision, as to 
whether the business suggested was a suitable one or 
not. In some cases the father might be guided in 
his choice by selfish considerations, seeking so to 
place the son as might be advantageous to himself, 
but it is more natural and therefore more frequent 
for him to be guided by a desire for his son's welfare. 

3 



The Healthy Marriage. 

Similar feelings guide, as a rule, parents in the 
Orient in the planning of the marriages of their sons 
or daughters. The element of love in most of these 
arranged marriages has at first very little place, 
affection and love being supposed generally to arise 
from the common life and common interests of two 
youthful people both in possession of the natural 
desires allotted to them. That love and affection 
do arise therefrom seems to be shown by the fact 
that though in general the process of divorce is easy, 
divorce actually is said to be rarer than in Europe. 
The main rationale of the Eastern marriage was 
and is, therefore, the provision of a wife for the 
son or a husband for the daughter, in order that 
what is considered the normal human life might 
be fulfilled. Provision is, in fact, made not only 
for the material needs of the youth or girl, but 
also those* which are based upon the sexual and 
associative natures of man and woman. 

In modern Europe the dominant creed of indi- 
vidualism gives an altogether different basis to 
marriage. Love is purely an individual thing ; as a 
guide it is the following of the impulse of personal 
feeling. Though many marriages are still arranged 
upon a purely material basis, and others are largely 
influenced by material considerations, yet the pre- 
dominant influence in the choice for marriage of the 
present day is love. " Don't marry for money, but 
marry where money is," is doubtless often wise 
advice, but to enter into a lifelong union with 
anyone without the existence of love is regarded by 
most young people as an experiment of wanton 
foolishness. The actual degree of love that urges 

4 



A Girl's Responsibility of Choice. 

a man or girl to marriage varies, of course, according 
.to their particular personality ; with one it may be 
a sleep- and health-destroying fever, with another a 
warm approval, but according to each one's capacity 
and kind, so love in most cases is the choosing factor 
in modern marriage. 

Modern marriage is, therefore, based not upon 
tradition, custom and parental aid and guidance, 
but upon personal choice. It becomes, in fact, a 
matter of personal responsibility thrust upon a girl 
in the early years of her adult life. Whatsoever her 
nature may be if one except the uncommon cases 
of those individuals whose strange nature tends to 
make them love their own rather than the opposite 
sex a girl is faced with the question of marriage, 
and it becomes a question of her own individual 
choice ; and it is a choice that throws a heavy 
responsibility upon her shoulders, for upon her 
decision her whole ultimate happiness depends. 
She is, of course, far less able, under the modern 
shifting and fluid conditions of society, to judge of a 
man as a safe husband than parents were and are in 
tradition-governed and stable conditions of society. 
The impulse of love is a pleasing one, but it is not a 
sure guide to the sound quality of character possessed 
by the man she thinks of with delight. Especially 
is this the case when she has already taken up a 
career, in which she meets many men who do not 
come from the same friendly circle in which she 
was brought up. She does not know the parents, 
family or friends as she does the family and friends 
of any man who has lived for a long time in the same 
place as herself. Similarly her parents are also 

5 



The Healthy Marriage. 

unable to advise her. As a consequence the responsi- 
bility that falls upon her is additionally heavy, and, 
unless she surrenders herself to the hazard of chance 
or the current of her love, she may well hesitate 
before she gives up a certain security of contentment 
and individual independence for what is now called 
the lottery of marriage. 

Nevertheless, although marriage is hazardous, a 
happy marriage is, with the exceptions referred to, 
the zenith of a woman's attainment, and is one that 
no girl will willingly forego. Consequently, lacking 
the traditions that compel her to act in a certain 
way, and lacking the dominant guidance and pro- 
vision of her parents, unless she acts from intuition 
or takes her chance, she seeks for guidance in such 
slight experience as she and her friends have had, 
and she may also seek for help in the pages of a book. 
Many books are now to be bought which act more 
or less as guides to marriage and its happy conduct. 
Some are well-written and sage. Some, one feels, 
are inspired more by the financial need of those 
concerned with them than by the true knowledge 
and advice they have to impart. 

The responsibility of a girl at the present day in 
the matter of marriage, is, as has been said, a heavy 
one, and a writer who presumes to give her advice 
upon marriage, and when married as wife and 
mother, takes upon himself a part of that responsi- 
bility. It is one that he cannot but regard as a 
grave one, for his readers, if they trust his book, 
will be influenced in their happiness and health by 
his writings. Only a due and fitting sense of his 
responsibility and the exercise of much thought and 

6 



The Seriousness of the Subject. 

testing of the knowledge he has acquired upon the 
subject can entitle him to the consideration of his 
readers in questions of such supreme moment to 
them. One has to approach the subject with the 
same cleanliness of intention and the same deliberate 
care as an honest priest approaches the delicate 
structure of a human soul. 

It is in this spirit that, as a medical man who 
has employed a great deal of his time in studying 
and meditating these matters, I shall endeavour to 
approach my subject, and it is in this spirit that I 
hope to be met by my readers. For the whole 
question of marriage and its relation to woman is one 
of such peculiar intimacy that it invites a particular 
reverence. Marriage is, of course, the most intimate 
relation of the sexes, and without reference to 
the question of sex no book upon the subject of 
wives and mothers can be regarded as anything 
else than superficial and misleading. The further 
questions of pregnancy and motherhood partake of 
a like peculiar character, but, being more individual 
and especial to the woman, and not being so closely 
concerned with her intimate relations to her husband, 
they permit of a greater freedom of consideration and 
discussion. 

Although there are evidences of sex in childhood, 
which sometimes become of moment to the medical 
man, as a rule the first bodily intimation of sex that 
a girl receives occurs through the onset of men- 
struation, which takes place usually between the 
fourteenth and sixteenth years, though cases of 
earlier and later onset are not uncommon. Even 
then in the great majority of girls bodily sexual 

7 



The Healthy Marriage. 

feeling is either very slight or absent, although 
through novels, plays, and general conversation, a 
sentimental, but on the whole innocent, atmosphere 
of romance is engendered. Other girls, led by 
scientific training or habit, may enquire into the 
physiology of sex, and acquaint themselves with 
such facts as are offered by the books that they are 
able to obtain. Even then, however, these facts 
are read and considered by the intellect rather than 
the senses, a fact that seems to me the proper 
answer to the interminable discussion as to whether 
girls should be specially instructed in these matters 
or not. Other girls, more emotionally inclined, 
discover for themselves by observation, conversation 
and association with their school friends, the 
general facts of sex. Nevertheless, as regards the 
actual feelings of nature, it may be stated broadly, 
that it is not really until a girl is married that any 
intimate understanding of what it means to be a 
wife comes to her. Nor, in my opinion, is this a 
fault. I believe the natural modesty of the majority 
of girls is an indication that there is no need for any 
peculiar education in these matters. One cannot 
really instruct the inexperienced body through the 
intellect. Howsoever forewarned, every true bodily 
experience in this world comes as an original dis- 
covery, and it is not until that experience has come, 
that the intellectual expression of it, given by some 
teacher or writer, is in any way properly understood. 
I believe rather that such special instruction to 
young girls would be harmful, as tending to excite 
a curiosity which nature herself does not counten- 
ance. When the nature of a girl does urge her to 

8 



The Knowledge of Sex. 

attempt to understand, she will usually in the 
current of affairs be able to find out or guess enough 
to satisfy her. But open instruction would destroy 
the shame, since the word has to be used, that is the 
companion to her modesty and the greatest safe- 
guard that she possesses of her self-respect and her 
chastity. When she is engaged to be married, or 
upon the eve of her wedding, her mother may tell 
her such things as she thinks necessary, but, if she 
be marrying a man of gentle feeling towards her, 
the explanation of the meaning of wife is best left 
to him. Until that time comes, her diffidence upon 

he matter of sex is, as I have said, an actual pro- 
vision of nature, and is of definite protective value 
to her. It is founded upon her bodily nature, and 
any interference with it by the rude intrusion of 
instruction, such as is urged by narrow-minded 
educationalists who cannot see the truth of modesty 
but only the truth of physiological text-books, is 
strongly to be deprecated. 

With marriage, the great majority of women's 
knowledge of the meaning of sex begins. As to 
whether that knowledge brings her happiness or not 
depends largely upon her husband as well as upon 
herself. In general, one may say that the fulfilment 
of so important and fundamental an instinct as that 
of sex, brings with it the gift of happiness. It allays 
the harassing discontent, the restless seeking for an 
unknown good that is characteristic of many women, 
who by ill fortune or ill judgment delay marriage. 
It brings with it the double or stereoscopic vision of 
married life, by which alone true proportion is seen. 
It unites the preservation of the individual and the 

9 



The Healthy Marriage. 

adjustment of one's own desires to those of another, 
with whom one lives in the closest intimacy. Its 
very character is symbolic of this definite change in 
character that comes to man or woman through the 
married state. Indeed, one may lay it down as a 
rule that as the years pass and one does not marry, 
so one tends to become abnormal. This abnor- 
mality, of course, is clear to all, when the unmarried 
bachelor or lady is advanced in years, and especially 
if he or she lives apart from young children. The 
pitiful oddity of such people is proverbial. But to 
the more interested observer, the abnormality may 
be noticed far earlier, and is usually evidenced in 
a devotion to abstract things, or in a veiled or open 
ever-present and overruling egotism. 

This abnormality, which grows with the unmarried 
state, affects the question of the age at which it is 
advisable to marry. Setting aside the guidance of 
love, or presuming that love occupies a certain pro- 
portion of most of the years of youth, it may be laid 
down that as years pass, so this abnormality of 
egotism or substitution of abstract interests and 
generalities for personal and bodily ones, becomes 
more settled in the character, and is brought as an 
unwelcome part of the marriage gift to the partner. 
A man, fit for marriage at four-and-twenty, may 
bring all sorts of disagreeable requirements of 
bachelorhood into his marriage if entered into at 
four-and-thirty. This is even more the case with 
women. A girl, who puts off marriage until her 
chance becomes less easy, may develop an excess of 
envy in an otherwise kindly nature, which she 
brings with her into her subsequent marriage as 

10 



The Social Effect of Marriage. 

an undesirable factor. In a word, marriage is a 
condition the time for which is indicated by nature, 
and if nature is disregarded and the marriage age 
delayed, a certain amount of punishment will 
almost surely follow. 

Indeed, one may say definitely that, with rare 
exceptions, marriage preserves the social quality 
of men and women and prevents them from becoming 
egotists. Parentage, of course, adds to this preserva- 
tion of the social side of men and women. I do not 
say that unmarried people are necessarily selfish. 
They often do much work for others, but there is 
always apt to be a spurious or vicarious quality to 
their work, it is apt to be work that they take up 
largely for the sake of something to do and for the 
need of being humanly interested. In both these 
reasons there is soundness, but in both one also sees 
that such work is somewhat of a substitute for the 
direct bodily love and inter-relationship that takes its 
origin in the married state. ' We may work day 
and night for the good of humanity/' said Ribbing, 
and quoted by Professor Kisch in his invaluable 
book upon women : " We may sacrifice for that good 
our time and our blood, but all this work and all 
this sacrifice remain useless if we neglect and despise 
the sexual life, the eternally self -renewing elementary 
school of true altruism." 

In addition to these celibates who do social work, 
there are a number of both men and women who, 
by the unsocial character of their lives, their 
deliberate and pervading selfishness, more than 
counter-balance the good done by the former class. 
Such people tend to make society impossible, for 

ii 



The Healthy Marriage. 

society is only made possible by a general give and 
take. Were, indeed, marriage to require excuses 
and reasons in these days of over-loaded enquiry 
and probing by the foolish, this one alone is sufficient, 
namely, that marriage is the chief mode and the 
natural mode by which an individual is compelled 
to consider others, by which he is bound to make 
sacrifices usually prompted by the heart, by which, 
in fact, he is forced to be social. But the selfish 
individualism that in most cases arises in the 
unmarried makes society impossible ; it tends to the 
anarchy and general greed which have their origin 
in exclusive individualism, and which prevent the 
social inter-relationship, the sense of courtesy, 
etiquette, manners, and mutual give and take, 
which alone can promote a healthy and stable 
association of mankind. 

The married state is, then, the proper social 
setting to the natural functions of men and women, 
and the delay in its execution until late in life brings 
into it some of the unsocial characteristics of the 
unmarried state. Married people are, on the whole, 
even in these days of economic anxiety, happier, 
wiser, less cranky, more stable and more moral than 
other people. They are also healthier, provided that 
the marriage is contracted at a suitable age by 
partners who have not wasted their strength in 
the years preceding marriage, and that childbirth 
is ably conducted. 

If, then, marriage is the normal social state, it 
would seem an advantage that adults should enter 
into it when young and in the full flush of youthful 
bodily health. It is of benefit to society at large 

12 



The Benefits of Early Marriage. 

that they should do so, and it is of benefit to them- 
selves. In girls, it prevents the years being unduly 
lengthened, in which doubt exists as to the proper 
fulfilment of the life that should be theirs, years 
which they fill in with pleasure-living or business 
and professional work, and in which they gather 
many notions antagonistic to a healthy conception 
of marriage and motherhood. I have frequently 
witnessed the ill-managed households which result 
from the lack of domestic habit in such girls. Their 
husbands, and, later, their children, suffer in con- 
sequence. By them marriage is apt to be viewed 
as an exciting incident with the glamour of the 
wedding and the honeymoon so radiant about it 
that little else is seen. Then when they enter into 
the true married state, they find that the rails of 
their life have hitherto run for a wholly other and 
individual destination and that they cannot properly 
alter their speed and direction to ensure smooth 
travel. 

The men of to-day might also hearken with profit 
to the unfortunately fading wisdom of the East. 
" All young men should marry," said a great teacher, 
" for marriage prevents sin." If the future husbands 
are rare men of strong character, then delayed mar- 
riage is not of great moment. Such men pass through 
all sorts and conditions of circumstance unscathed 
and preserve the shape of their personality un- 
changed. But with the great majority of men the 
dilemma of delayed marriage is one that sets them 
between the dangers of an enforced continence and 
of an indulgence, the temptations and risks of which 
they cannot avoid. They become definitely soiled by 

13 



The Healthy Marriage. 

their mode of life. Their outlook upon the world of 
sex and womanhood becomes an outlook from the 
lowest plane. Their most intimate associations with 
members of the opposite sex are of a kind that 
implant in them the opposite qualities to those that 
lead to happiness in married life. Their freshness 
and the cleanness of their youth are taken from them 
by these women, and their wives have to be content 
with the- worn and soiled manhood that is left. 
Sometimes such men not only bring degraded tastes, 
but they also bring actual disease as a part of their 
marriage gift. There is, in fact, no greater secret 
tragedy in modern life than the number of women 
who suffer or have suffered long-lasting pain, sickness 
and shame owing to the venereal disease they have 
contracted from their husbands. I well remember 
one particular case that came under my charge. A 
girl of about twenty married a man some fifteen 
years older than herself. Two years after their 
marriage the husband developed definite signs of 
locomotor ataxy, and after four more years died of 
this repulsive disease. I enquired as judiciously as 
possible into the health of the young wife, but she 
was a modest girl and assured me that she was and 
had been perfectly well and needed no medical 
examination. She did not look well, but the trial 
of her husband's illness was sufficient to account for 
her looking poorly. A twelvemonth afterwards she 
came to me, and bursting into tears said that she 
could hide her dreadful secret no longer. She 
stripped herself to the waist and showed me a sight 
that filled me with horror. Her body displayed 
several large, foul ulcers eating deeply into the flesh. 

14 



The Dangers of Late Marriage. 

When her tears had ceased, I assured her that I 
could make her better, but she cried again and said, 
" Oh, but you can never take from me the shame of 
it all, the shame of being the foul and polluted thing 
that I am. I could curse the man who gave me 
this dreadful disease, but the memory of those years 
of his paralysis and suffering restrain me. But why 
did I ever marry ? " Why, indeed, I thought ? 
Why should there be such a thing as the union of 
this young girl with her healthy body to a man who 
had so diseased himself before marriage ? 

These dangers of late marriage and of the delay of 
marriage, which are increasing year by year, are 
little mentioned in books and conversation, but are 
unfortunately only too well known to doctors and 
to circles of intimate friends, amongst whom the 
veiled things of life are disclosed. The years between 
twenty and thirty too often soil a man physically 
and morally, and it is this soiled article that a 
woman has to accept. Not only is this so, but 
often girls themselves become looser in their thought 
towards the cleanliness of sex, in order, it seems, to 
make themselves more acceptable to such men. A 
freedom of speech upon sexual matters, a speech with 
suggestiveness and allusions that provoke laughter, 
is all too common in modern life. Novels that deal 
with the same subjects are also common and many 
plays cannot be exempted. Many girls and more 
men, of course, take no little pride in being up-to- 
date in this acquisition of freedom. It is a freedom 
of speech and intellect, which to my mind is greatly 
to be deplored, especially in that it is complemented 
not by a general marriage and freedom to enter 

15 



The Healthy Marriage. 

into the married state, but by an increasing total 
or relative (delayed) absence of marriage, and 
ever increasing economical obstacles to marriage, 
which are regarded with complacency by people 
who nevertheless get highly agitated by questions 
far more removed from the natural rights of life 
than are marriage and the possession and love of 
children such as the political questions that are 
current. The more, indeed, marriage gets pushed 
into the background and loses its position as one of- 
the first rights and foundation of society and man- 
kind, the more an irreverence for sex arises. , Instead 
of the sanctity and respect of sex, which is embodied 
in marriage, a half-mockery arises amongst those, 
who in mocking really mock at themselves for losing 
that which constitutes the chief pillar of human 
happiness, and who attempt to cover with the cheap 
cloak of cynicism, a deplorable and growing inability 
to manage the requirements of sex properly y A 
vapour of sex, as it were, takes the place of its solid 
benefits and satisfaction. A trivial, false and vulgar 
attitude is often shown to it, and an attitude of mock 
seriousness, which expends itself in endless discus- 
sion, but which is impotent in result except to make a 
subject, which should be regarded as one of the 
simplest and most obvious rights of men and women 
a matter of extreme and insoluble complication. 
The respect and reverence of sex, which shows itself 
in a religious adoption and reverent attitude to 
marriage, is becoming more and more obscured and 
clouded by this false irreverence and ineptitude. 
The most primitive men can give us many a lesson 
in their high respect for the gift and decency of sex, 

16 



Primitive Marriage. 

" The savage is also more refined in language with 
regard to this subject than are most civilized men/' 
wrote Ernest Crawley, one of the most profound 
students of primitive man ; " thus in Ceram it is 
forbidden to speak of sexual matters in the presence 
of a third person ; and obscenity, that fungus- 
growth of civilization through degeneration or wrong 
methods of education, is either unknown amongst 
savages or regarded as a heinous sin. Ethnology 
supplies many cases of apparent obscenity, but the 
expressions are not obscene, they express a man's 
righteous and religious indignation." 

Savages in their marriage customs and ceremonies, 
ceremonies which Ernest Crawley believes are in 
some form or other universal, show the same high 
regard and profound reverence for sex. Irreverence 
towards sex and ignoring of its primary importance 
to men and women cannot but be gravely disadvan- 
tageous to the cleanliness and health of any society. 
Such irreverence brings into marriage, when 
accomplished, all kinds of subtly hostile influences 
to the wedded state ; and, breeding as it does a 
partial scorn and antagonism to the married state, 
is particularly liable to become acquired in the years 
that intervene between the arrival at adult years and 
the delayed date of marriage. 

In my opinion, therefore, there are very strong 

grounds for advocating marriage in early years. To 

many this may be a counsel of perfection. Economic 

difficulties bar the way, and to overcome them is a 

matter almost impossible, unless one is born with the 

advantages of inherited wealth, the exceptional gift 

t -parents who save money to enable their children 

.M. 17 2 



The Healthy Marriage. 

to marry and do not spend it on their own luxuries, 
outstanding talents or a goodly portion of individual 
courage and judgment. The exigencies of poverty 
are such that few care to face them, even though by 
doing so they are able to lead the natural married 
life. For marriage is natural to man, the formal 
name of marriage and the rites that accompany it 
being but the confirmation of a universally spread 
instinct. Modern researches have shown that the 
so called promiscuity, which was hastily attributed 
by some writers to primitive man, has no existence 
in facts, and if one care to push the argument into 
the generally-held belief of the ape-ancestry of man, 
it is known that the anthropoid apes themselves 
mate by a form of marriage and are faithful to each 
other. Indeed, it is recorded that the male of 
Hapale jacchus, after the death of his mate, covers 
his eyes, ceases to eat and remains thus until he dies. 
One has every right, therefore, to regard marriage as 
natural to man, and to look upon the suggestion of 
free love as a false and evil creation of degenerate 
natures. One also has the right to place celibacy, 
with less vehemence, in the same category, for 
Professors Forel, Westermarck and others have 
shown that the increase of celibacy always goes 
hand in hand with an increase in the corruption of 
morals. One, therefore, can regard the married as 
the sane and healthy section of society. 

To undertake marriage in the earlier years may 
be actually impossible owing to the great poverty it 
would entail. Nevertheless, ^counsel should always 
point to the best. Marriage in early years is 
certainly worth a considerable sacrifice of personal 

18 



Hindrances to Marriage. 

comfort, and there are many expenses, entertain- 
ments, fashions of dress, indulgences of pleasure, of 
food and the lesser and greater luxuries, which it is 
wiser to forego than to forego marriage. Modern 
parents themselves, as I have said, tend to increase 
the obstacles to early marriage. A man is more 
inclined to get and keep a motor-car for himself than 
to help his son to marry. One frequently sees the 
spectacle of luxurious parents, while the son is 
earning an income that could not possibly permit 
him to lead a healthy physiological life. Society 
throughout is based upon an economic opposition to 
marriage. A man or woman is considered fortunate 
to earn sufficient for his or her maintenance alone, 
and the extra expense that is required for marriage 
is only merited by extra desert. In short, marriage 
has come to be regarded as a luxury, and the bent 
of the nation's efforts is directed to enriching the 
richer classes, and .normal physiological life is not 
taken into consideration as a national asset, but is 
openly or latently opposed as being a condition 
distinctly antagonistic to the accumulation of 
luxuries on the part of the classes in power. 

It needs, therefore, no little boldness and disregard 
of the attitude of others, for young people to pay 
chief regard to themselves, and, in spite of the 
obstacles thrown in their way, to enter into their 
natural rights and to form the compact, which is not 
only beneficial to themselves but ultimately essential 
to the solidarity and stability of society. They have 
to deliberately choose marriage and reject as far as 
possible the many costly complexities, and artificial 
enjoyments of modern life, which add nothing to the 

19 2-2 



The Healthy Marriage. 

health of the nation except a growing burden of 
nervousness and discontent. Indeed this very 
nervousness and discontent arises from the perverted 
springs of nature and has to create for itself some 
form of inebriation, whether it be the inebriation of 
alcohol, or of drugs, of fevered absorption in work or 
study, of the ceaseless pursuit of pleasure or rather 
diversion, as if pausing were dangerous for fear that 
something suppressed might make itself heard, as if 
sobriety and meditation disclosed too ravelled and 
distorted a picture to be borne, even as the sobered 
drunkard is driven into the blues at the thought of 
his inability to master his life. How much of the 
rush and tear of life is due to the extravagances of 
thwarted nature one cannot say. But one can say 
that social stability and a certain calm mastery 
of life are only to be found in nations which base 
their society upon marriage and provision for 
marriage. 

For a girl and man, therefore, to decide to devote 
themselves to marriage, thereby to view the world 
with the invaluable social double or stereoscopic 
vision which marriage brings, and with the coming 
of the child to gain the racial vision and under- 
standing of the continuity of the life of man as 
opposed to that of barren individuality, is a matter 
requiring no ordinary judgment and boldness. To 
advise it, as I have said, may be a counsel of 
perfection, but it is the duty of doctors, who know 
the supreme importance of a proper physiological 
basis to life, to set up their opposition to the increas- 
ing neglect of the fundamental physiological and 
psychical factors of health. It is their duty to urge 

20 



False Substitutes. 

upon young men and women that the claims of 
physiology have as great and greater right to be 
heard than those of urban pleasures, the clamour of 
political and abstract questions, the fever of busi- 
ness, the pretension of possessions, when those 
possessions usurp the place of the possession of wife 
and child. These are false issues of life, if they are 
indulged in at the expense of, and as substitutes for, 
the true. They cannot promote a true mental and 
physical health, but can and do form very credulous 
material for the innumerable systems of gymnastics, 
diet, electrical, hydropathic and faith cures and the 
many other witless methods of attaining health by 
a society which cannot see the profound errors of 
its faulty physiology, and needs these cures to patch 
it up to a tolerable efficiency. 

Many girls and young men are not equipped, of 
course, with sufficient courage to stand out decisively 
for their own wishes in the matter of marriage. 
They are more concerned with what others think and 
with what is the custom of their time. To such the 
vision of choosing marriage and poverty rather than 
celibacy and comfort is one they cannot entertain 
with assurance. Habituated to a certain standard of 
life, they are unable to change this standard in order 
to marry, but can only hope to add marriage to it. 
There is a great deal of reason upon their side. To 
the majority of young men and girls the definite 
adoption of a mode of life, that is not so comfortable 
and expensive as that of their fellows and which loses, 
therefore, some of the respect of their fellows, 
amongst whom possessions rather than personality 
form the standard of judgment, would be intolerable, 

21 



The Healthy Marriage. 

or sufficiently difficult to test the happiness of their 
married state severely. Such young men and girls 
rightly prefer to remain single and thereby to be 
able to show a mode of life that bears comparison 
with that of others. If in the rush of love they do 
get married and set up house in a cheap way, a 
sense of shame overcomes them when their friends 
visit them. They overstrain their slender resources 
in trying to make a good show, and deny themselves 
necessities in order to provide those things which 
their friends take by habit. The thought of what 
others will think of them becomes a harassing 
one. The absence of an equal smartness of the 
wife in the presence of her girl friends may irritate 
the husband. The husband is apt to blame his 
wife for not being able to ease his sensitiveness 
in these matters. The wife, on her part, may begin 
to fret at finding that she is deprived of the comforts 
of her home, she may refuse to do any of the service 
of the house, and openly declare with great irra- 
tionality that she expects her husband to properly 
provide for her. With such people early marriage 
before firm financial security exists will be disastrous, 
and such people are certainly in the majority. They 
must delay marriage, until their incomes ensure that 
their lives do not differ materially in kind from what 
they were before marriage, that their house, though 
smaller, will be as genteel as the family home, that 
their food will be of the same sort, that their clothes 
will cost as much and that the wives will be as free 
as previously from any household work other than 
the ordering. But they have to pay some penalty 
for their regard for the conventions rather than their 

22 



The Value of Early Marriage. 

individual promptings. They may delay marriage 
until it is too late, or so late that it has lost all its 
first freshness. They risk the staling of themselves, 
they lose the unique vital splendour that belongs to 
all things that, clothed in youth, are looking towards 
maturity, such things in nature as the unique and 
exhilarating splendour of the air at dawn, the 
lusciousness of fruit just plucked, the freshness of 
water that bubbles up at a spring. They miss the 
reward of nature when her behests are obeyed. 
They bring to each other a certain exhaustion of the 
sources of love, and, in the case of the man at least, 
the source is sometimes polluted as well. 

Nevertheless, as long as civilization and economic 
pressure enforces the delay of marriage, it is not 
possible to see how these disasters can be avoided, 
except by a bold venture, itself entailing the risk of 
greater disaster. One can only hope that the subject 
of the physiological basis of life will eventually divert 
to itself the attention which at present, to my mind 
owing to a mistaken understanding of social life, 
is devoted to class politics, individual advertise- 
ment and aggrandisement, a culture and education 
divorced from the body, and other economical, 
abstract, and impersonal questions. 

With these general suggestions as to the value of 
marriage and of early marriage, we may now enquire 
into the actual marriage ages of the present day. In 
northern Europe, with the exception of Russia, 
which is now however beginning to follow suit 
the average marriage age of the better and pro- 
fessional classes amongst the girls is twenty-six, 
and amongst the men, thirty-one. This late age 

i 2 3 



The Healthy Marriage. 

is dependent not only upon economic stress, but 
also upon the individual and competitive basis of 
modern life as opposed to the family basis and its 
traditions. In the latter, the elder and secure 
members of the family gave their protection to the 
younger members until they had ripened to full 
adult and parental power. In the former system, 
the young married folk at once enter upon a separate 
life. They set up a separate household, and upon 
their own efforts and judgment their success or 
failure depends. At the age of twenty and twenty- 
one of course they have not, with rare exceptions, 
the judgment and experience that will enable them 
to hold their own in a competitive world. They are 
surrounded by people anxious to make what can be 
made out of them, instead of by people who tend to 
shield them from the greater difficulties of life. 
Their parents may be willing to help them, but they 
live at some distance in households entirely separate, 
and therefore cannot help them in more intimate 
concerns. The young couple, therefore, find them- 
selves unprotected and exposed to the slings and 
arrows of outrageous fortune. They have not the 
necessary authority of years, which for most men is 
the only authority they possess ; for the ruler 
quality which gives the born ruler domination even 
when young, is a rare gift. The young wife is 
perpetually harassed by the behaviour of her 
servants and shop-people, and the young husband, 
though knowing that his expenses are unnecessarily 
high, does not know how to check them, or, if he 
attempts to do so, acts without the firm assurance 
of proven facts, and arouses the ruffled self-righteous- 

24 



Setting up the Home. 

ness of the people he accuses. Quite unexpected 
household disasters occur. The house that was 
depicted as so exceptionally desirable a residence by 
a specious agent, proves to have all kinds of dis- 
advantageous idiosyncrasies. Though the lease or 
agreement seemed to be one of open clarity, yet the 
husband discovers that the justice of the law creeps 
in in dishonourable garb, and squeezes money out 
of him in ways that altogether run counter to his 
sense of fair play. Everywhere he finds the innate 
sense of justice, which has been nurtured in him at 
public school to a strong and overruling idea, is one 
that has not the dominant influence it had at school, 
but is rather the shame-faced spectator of the clever- 
ness and cuteness of competitive commercialism. 
He finds that the peculiar code of honour that held 
sway between him and his school and college friends 
is one neither recognized nor understood by the 
lower classes, and that they, on their part, unless he 
happens upon that increasing rarity, the faithful 
family domestic, tend to regard him as a legitimate 
and happily innocent prey. In town or at his work, 
he often has similar latent or open hostilities upon 
the part of his fellow-men with which to contend, 
and his life tends to assume the form of a painful 
struggle along a path beset with thorns and bestrewn 
with hidden pitfalls. His elders help him with 
advice only, and the assurance that he must buy 
his experience. 

His wife at home has to endure similar experiences 
and defeats. She thinks to purchase and manage 
with the same skill and facility as her mother, and 
though shop-people and others oblige her with every 

25 



The Healthy Marriage. 

facility for purchasing, she finds with some bitterness 
that the skill is always upon their side. Her bills, 
do what she will, assume proportions that, when 
shown to her husband, call forth the frowns upon his 
brow. Do what she will she cannot control them 
without considerable sacrifice on her part. She can 
dispense with pretty dresses and delicate under- 
clothing, and become a student in the art of making 
things last and making things do. She can give up 
certain pleasures to which she has been accustomed 
and what is dearer than the pleasure of shopping 
when the purse does not nip the intruding finger ? 
and sigh when she sees her girl friends indulging in 
these same pleasures without pangs of conscience 
and qualms of anxiety. Perhaps, in the evening, 
when her husband returns from work, she relieves 
her pent up feelings by pouring out her troubles to 
his sympathetic ears, and together they bemoan the 
unfairness of their fellows. But as the weeks pass, 
the young husband begins to weary of a wife who 
has complaints upon her lips where once untroubled 
laughter played, and his welcome home seems to 
him only a continuation of the vexations he meets 
with in his business. Or the wife, finding the pinch 
of narrow means, and accustomed, as so many are, 
to regard their habits as their rights, demands the 
dresses, pleasures, leisure and expenditure which 
she enjoyed in her unmarried days. Under such 
circumstances, it is only too probable that the happy 
married state becomes commingled with much of 
the bitterness and irritation which arise from per- 
petual competition. One is not surprised, therefore, 
to find, when the statistician enters the field of 

26 



Danger of Marriage. 

modern youthful marriages, that his record is a 
gloomy one, and shows that it is safer to look after 
oneself alone to-day than is the state of marriage, 
which is, nevertheless, the first foundation of the 
social feeling and of society. Seved Ripping 
investigated the question of youthful marriage in 
France. He found, comparing 1,000 married men, 
who married at the age of twenty or less, with 
1,000 of their unmarried contemporaries, that in a 
certain period of time the mortality amongst the 
married was as much as five times as great as that 
of the unmarried. In the same investigation he 
found that the girls who married at twenty or 
less, showed a mortality compared to that of their 
unmarried contemporaries that was not quite 
twice as high. German statisticians have found, 
on their part, that marriage also increases the 
mortality of women under the age of twenty-five. 

Figures, however, are very unreliable guides in 
life, and especially as guides in individual cases. 
No doubt marriage does bring with it an increased 
risk to life in civilized countries, where there is a 
great deal of venereal disease, where women have 
difficult childbirths, where there is a good deal of 
interfering and incompetent midwifery amongst the 
mothers of the lower classes. But the reader must 
not be influenced by figures, which include the whole 
community, for the various grades and quality of 
life forbid any deduction made from the whole 
community being true for a single section of it. 
That youthful marriage is best for healthy girls 
provided they can get healthy mates is undoubted. 
Only they who feel they must obey the spirit of 

27 



The Healthy Marriage. 

their time should delay marriage with its risks of no 
marriage at all, or decide from the first to live in the 
unmarried state. 

Whom to marry is not a question to answer in this 
book. If any woman finds she wants advice on the 
point, she will herself know where she can best seek 
it. If she wants a book upon the subject, there is 
the translation of Dr. Mantigazza's " How to Choose 
a Husband." 

But I may be permitted a few words of advice as 
to whom not to marry, though I shall confine myself 
to an enumeration of the diseases which should 
cause a woman to refrain from marriage, believing, 
of course, that she, should she suffer from any of 
these diseases, and yet contemplate marriage, would 
submit herself to the decision of some competent 
physicians. These diseases are definite consumption, 
any indication of disease of the central nervous 
system, mental disorder or definitely hereditary 
insanity, pernicious anaemia, haemophilia, diabetes, 
chronic kidney disease, severe heart disease, marked 
deformity of the pelvis and infantile condition of the 
womb. Venereal disease is not a bar, but marriage 
should not be contemplated, unless a physician 
declares the disease to have been cured, and as far 
as can be judged, in no way likely to infect the other 
party. 

As regards the marriage of cousins, it is quite safe 
and perhaps advantageous, provided there is no 
morbid tendency in the family. Should there be 
one, then cousin marriage must be avoided. An 
instance of successful and advantageous cousin 
marriage was that of Queen Victoria. Not a few 

28 



Cousin Marriage. 

notable men have been the children of cousins, and 
the brilliant and able Greeks regarded consan- 
guineous marriage as the most natural and advan- 
tageous. But should there be a morbid heritage in 
the family, it is said to be quadrupled by cousin 
marriage, and such a marriage should certainly be 
avoided. 



2 9 



CHAPTER II. 
The Hygiene of Marriage. 

"This age will be named that of the maladies of the 
womb." Michelet. 

THE early weeks of marriage, especially those of 
the honeymoon, are those in which women especially 
need guidance. In them the change from the 
girl to the wife occurs, a change of so radical a 
nature that there is no time in women's lives which 
requires more delicate handling. Yet there is 
in the modern honeymoon a foolish romance and 
reprehensible disregard of physiology which is quite 
inexcusable. There is, I believe, considerable wis- 
dom in a diffidence, and even secrecy, about intimate 
marital matters, but to base the honeymoon upon 
a deliberate defiance of all sensible respect for sex 
is exceeding the bounds of obscuration to a lament- 
able degree. 

Every doctor who is consulted in these matters 
knows many a case in whicK the young wife and 
also the husband have suffered very considerably 
upon the honeymoon. Not infrequently, injuries 
leading to long illnesses may date from this period, 
and, I think, as frequently, moral injuries are 
inflicted upon the wife, from which she suffers very 
often in secret for a considerable time. Further, 

30 



The Mutual Fear of the Sexes. 

serious results are consequent upon the foolishness 
which frequently permeates the modern honey- 
moon. 

The relation of the sexes from the beginning 
of time is one in which there has always been an 
element of fear. Primitive marriage ceremonies are 
always directed to guarding the young people from 
the harms that may befall them when they first 
enter into the strange domain of wedded life. With 
this fear they also combine a secrecy of the inti- 
macies of marriage, a secrecy in which in general 
the modern writer does well to follow them. But 
though secret in speech, their customs and rites 
were devised to guard the young people against the 
actual dangers that, as experience teaches, threaten 
them. Thus, it is not unusual for the bride to be 
examined before marriage. This has as one of its 
objects the rupture of the hymen. The hymen, as 
is generally known, is the membrane of virginity. 
In certain cases this membrane is unduly developed, 
and this is especially liable to be the case in women 
marrying late in life. It may consequently offer a 
definite obstacle to the consummation of marriage. 
A husband may, then, out of ignorance or lack of 
consideration cause his wife considerable pain. 
Indeed, if he fail to treat her with delicacy and 
understanding, he may bring about a condition that 
causes her so much pain as to make the consumma- 
tion impossible, and also to produce in her a highly 
nervous and hysterical condition, one in which a 
dread and dislike of her husband may form a 
prominent feature. The hymen also frequently 
bleeds in the earlier period of marriage, and this may 

31 



The Healthy Marriage. 

alarm a young girl. It is clear, then, that unless 
care and knowledge guide this period, most detri- 
mental mental and physical conditions may result. 

The wise course in this and similar matters, as it 
seems to me, is for the husband to visit a doctor 
before he is married, and to become informed upon 
the intimate details of physiological care. One 
often has later to express a grave regret to men, 
who, owing to the temptations of life, have acquired 
what they call experience from a class of women 
very different in their sensitiveness to the refined 
women whom they have married. Such men fail 
to make a proper distinction, and show an attitude 
to their brides which is unintentionally brutal. 
Here, again, one has the groundwork of prolonged 
nervousness and of definite personal dislike, which 
spoils the desirable married happiness. 

Here, again, one may say that, reading the 
customs of mankind, one is impressed by the 
extreme respect shown by primitive peoples quite 
wrongly supposed to be barbarous in these matters 
to the initial married state, shown, for instance, by 
the frequency with which the young bride is made 
accustomed to intimate relations with her husband 
in the first few days before the marriage is actually 
consummated. 

In civilized life such delicacy, unfortunately, 
depends, not upon a general custom, but upon the 
individual refinement of the husband, a refinement 
which not infrequently has become blunted by 
experiences with the women who at night throng 
the chief thoroughfares of American and European 
cities. I, therefore, think that older people do well 

32 



The Honeymoon. 

to advise a bridegroom to consult an experienced 
doctor before marriage. 

The honeymoon which is spent quietly in a 
secluded place has much to recommend it. The 
early weeks of married life are sufficiently absorbing 
physiologically as to make further demands upon the 
vital energy foolish and even dangerous. With the 
increase of facilities for travel and the one great 
chance of having a good tour in foreign parts offered 
to them, honeymooners have unfortunately come to 
disregard fundamental physiology and add to the 
honeymoon the burden of much sight-seeing, in 
itself a sufficiently exhausting task. The husband 
especially seems to forget that his wife is not like 
a male friend and able to undertake the same lengthy 
walks and expeditions. The young folk may arrive 
in Paris on the day following the wedding. The 
name of the magic city itself denotes endless sources 
of delight, each one of which must be at least tasted. 
The Louvre, the Invalides, the Palais Royal, 
Notre Dame, the Luxembourg, Versailles, the Petit 
Trianon, have to be seen ; in the evening there are 
famous restaurants to be visited, then the Theatre 
Fran9ais, and later, perhaps, a light supper with a 
bottle of champagne, and at last the young couple 
get back to their hotel, both having thoroughly 
enjoyed themselves, but the bride at least tired out. 
A few more similar days and evenings follow, then, 
perhaps, more railway journeys and more visits to 
famous places. All this is added to the strain of 
the physiological change that marriage essentially 
entails. Excitement keeps the bride up for a time, 
but each night she returns home in an exhausted 

33 3 



The Healthy Marriage. 

condition. It is then that a further and more 
distant danger of such a honeymoon occurs. A 
child is perhaps conceived when both bride and 
bridegroom are in a state of exhaustion. It is well 
known to doctors that the first child tends to be 
more delicate than the later children, and Dr. Van 
Gelsen, one of the chief authorities in these matters, 
was of the opinion shared by his colleagues that the 
reason was that the first child was often conceived 
when the parents were in a state of exhaustion. 
Further, there is the danger that Professor Forel 
and others press forward. Professor Forel says 
there is danger to the child's full health and nervous 
stability, if, when it is conceived, the parents have 
alcohol circulating in their blood. Young people 
who are habitually abstemious not infrequently 
indulge, mildly, of course, but nevertheless in a 
manner to which they are not accustomed, in 
champagne and other wines. This not only in the 
end adds to the artificial excitement which buoys 
them up, but it may even have its effect upon the 
child conceived. No doubt a child conceived in true 
love passion is well conceived, but when it is con- 
ceived by parents exhausted after a long day of 
sight-seeing and pleasure-taking, and sustained by 
the artificial stimulus of wine, it is in Van Gelsen, 
Professor Forel, and many other authorities' opinions 
badly conceived and apt to be of a delicate and 
nervous constitution. At any rate it seems that, 
though strong love should certainly be a factor, it 
must be love supported by the fullest and most 
natural vigour, if the child is to be conceived in the 
best way possible. 

34 



The Need of Moderation. 

This brings me to the further point of honeymoon 
moderation, namely, in the satisfaction of desire. 
There is temptation to be immoderate in the honey- 
moon, and this in itself adds to the exhaustion of the 
newly-married couple. No doubt in the early part 
of married life more can be borne with safety than 
at a later period. ' But immoderation tends to 
exhaustion. Its effects are as a rule shown more 
in the man than in the woman. For it is a fact that 
the married life is a greater physiological strain upon 
the husband than the wife. This seems also to be 
the case amongst the primitive men, who have 
many different rites and customs by which they 
strive to avoid the depression and weakness that 
frequently visits the husband. The folk-lore of 
European peoples is also actuated by the same 
belief. Amongst primitive men, for instance, it is 
frequently the custom for the men to occupy 
separate dwellings when they are preparing to go 
upon a military expedition. During pilgrimages the 
observance of continence is also imperative amongst 
Mussulmen, and amongst many tribes important 
hunting and fishing expeditions are also preceded 
and accompanied by a continence upon the part of 
the men. The belief is certainly well founded, 
and every doctor who has studied these questions 
knows how immoderation exhausts the husband, 
with his more active rSle, more than it does the wife. 
Depression is the result of immoderation upon 
either party in the marriage. Emotional exhaus- 
tion follows, and the sufferer finds himself or herself 
unable to enjoy the ordinary pleasures of life in the 
wonted manner. Moreover, the love and affection 

35 3-2 



The Healthy Marriage. 

felt between the pair is also blunted, and irritability 
as well as melancholy takes its place. The sufferer 
becomes run down and below par, as the popular 
expressions phrase it. Headache, weariness, loss of 
appetite, loss of ambition, loss of zest for work, loss 
of desire for the pleasure of society, lowered resist- 
ance to disease, a greater liability to catch cold, 
indigestion, vague pains in different parts of the 
body, pain and weight in the loins, heat waves, 
general nervousness, diarrhoea, in women in addition 
vaginal catarrh and whites, swelling of the breasts 
and neck and various other debilities result. One 
cannot, therefore, be too insistent upon the value to 
health of moderation. 

A doctor is not infrequently asked as to how many 
times intercourse may be enjoyed without harm. 
The question has occupied the attention of many 
religious teachers. The priests of the Catholic 
Church always receive instruction during their 
training upon this important matter, in order that 
they may be able to give wholesome advice to those 
who come to confess to them. Luther threw his 
advice into the form of a verse, which is still much 
quoted and followed in German-speaking countries : 

In der woche zweier, 

Schadet weder mir noch dir, 

Und macht in yahre hundert und vier. 

(Twicejnthe jveek we need-not fear._ 
Or a Eun3red^an3~four times inlhe year.J 

Zoroaster, the Persian prophet, advised an interval 
of nine days between intercourse, and Solon, the 
Athenian lawgiver, ten days. 

36 



Happiness and Physiology. 

But it is not possible in this matter always to be 
bound by rule. It is better to be guided by the 
actual promptings of nature, and, as man is the 
active agent, to be guided chiefly by him. In this 
matter, as in any other appetite, nature herself 
indicates when satisfaction is wise. Any artificial 
stimulation of the senses has the same effect as the 
artificial stimulation of any other appetite, it 
eventually exhausts. When the appetite is present, 
then the art of caresses and love may be added to it, 
as the art of cooking is added to the promptings of 
the gastric appetite. But art must not be used to 
attempt to arouse an absent appetite or one that can 
only be artificially excited. In fact, the matter, 
viewed in this light, is so much on a par with the 
wise regulation and satisfaction of the gastric 
appetite that the analogy between the two will 
teach any sensible person how to act. After the 
satisfaction of either there is the desire to sleep, and, 
if the appetite has been properly tended, the sleep 
should be followed by a feeling of freshness. 
Exhaustion is a definite warning of immoderation or 
artificial stimulus. If moderation is difficult to 
observe, a couple are well-advised to sleep in 
separate beds. 

It cannot be too definitely stated that the happi- 
ness of married life largely depends upon physiology. 
People are wont to conceal their married troubles 
and often to exhibit a false appearance of happiness 
and even to do their best to deceive themselves. 
They are ashamed to be unhappy in their married 
life, and perhaps rightly so, for unhappiness argues 
a bad choice and judgment in what is generally the 

37 



The Healthy Marriage. 

most important matter of their lives. Very little 
has been written upon such unhappiness in England 
and very little is said. Consequently, there is a 
good -deal of ignorance upon the matter, which is, 
so to speak, the debt we pay for a very proper feeling 
that we do not care to make these intimate matters 
public. Nevertheless, it is possible that we err on 
the side of too great secrecy and its complementary 
ignorance, and a psychologist, who has studied these 
matters, is often depressed, when cases come into 
the courts of law, by the grave ignorance of human 
nature which our law and its executors display. 
Much of our law, indeed, was devised for times when 
England was almost wholly an agricultural country. 
Now it is well known that amongst an agricultural 
population we meet with the most normal marital 
life. However much we may deplore it, the fact 
remains, that amongst the inhabitants of large 
cities and manufacturing towns, lesser or greater 
disabilities arise and occur with sufficient frequency 
to be constantly observed by the psychologist 
instructed in this important branch of human nature. 
Consequently he notices many cases of lesser or 
greater unhappiness in married life which a little 
knowledge might avert. The English medical 
profession as yet shares in this widely spread 
ignorance and diffidence in entering upon what all 
agree is a dangerous subject. Nevertheless, a 
doctor is, as a rule, more learned in the subject 
than other men, and, therefore, I would always 
advise people who are not happy in their married 
lives to consult a doctor. As I have said, there 
is nothing more certain than that marital unhappi- 

38 



Marital Rights. 

ness in a great number of cases is due to faulty 
physiological understanding and adjustment. 

I have already indicated how many minor dis- 
abilities and nervous affections may arise from this 
source. Wrongful deprivation of marital rights 
may have the same evil effect, even though the 
deprivation is mutually agreed to by the two 
partners. Sometimes also it is advised for some 
reason by a dcctor not versed in psychology. I 
would state here that only in very rare cases is such 
advice justified, and that it is generally given with 
far too facile an ignorance of the mental and moral 
effects that are its resultant. Marriages, previously 
happy, may be utterly ruined by such advice based 
upon some weakness of the wife which may itself 
actually be due to a mistaken notion of marital 
physiology. With married folk themselves, more- 
over, there is an increase of folly in this respect. 
This is especially amongst the upper classes in the 
United States, amongst whom the women seem to 
possess often an acquired aversion to being natural 
in these important functions. Infected by the 
exaggerated estimate of the individual, marriage 
becomes to them a means by which they can secure 
the most pleasure and the greatest degree of escape 
from what they hold to be the troubles of life. 
Pregnancy, childbirth, and suckling they regard with 
dread, and the relations with their husbands, which 
naturally lead to such issues, they curiously distort 
and pervert. The results to them are by no means 
fortunate, for amongst American wives one can find 
the most restless, irritable, nervous creatures to be 
found upon the globe. 

39 



The Healthy Marriage. 

Nature punishes any people who depart from a 
rightful regard of her demands. People may obey 
and base themselves upon nature and build up an art 
therefrom, but they may not check and pervert her. 
City life tends to do this, and what is most notable 
in the United States is also noticeable in European 
countries. There are restless, irritable wives and 
husbands in abundance in European countries as 
well as in the States, and one can assert positively 
that the major amount of the nerves and hysteria 
of the present day may be traced to faulty sexual 
hygiene. 

It is not possible to enter very fully into the 
subject in a handbook of this nature, and in a later 
chapter more will be found upon the subject. I 
would only warn my readers here that in the advice 
of a skilled doctor they may be able to find the guide 
to happiness in marriage, where unhappiness already 
exists or is threatening. Each case has to be dealt 
with separately. Sometimes the husband is at 
fault, sometimes the wife, more often both are at 
fault, or rather, suffering from ignorance. As a 
simple instance of fault in the husband, one fre- 
quently sees a man give all his power and strength 
to the day's work and come home to his wife utterly 
exhausted ; and to be united to exhaustion is not a 
source of happiness. Sometimes, again, the husband 
is one whose love is subject to a definite cycle, at one 
part of which it is warm and tender, at another cold 
and indifferent. Sometimes the wife is cold and 
frigid, there is no true response in her. Sometimes 
she demands too much and makes her husband dread 
her as one who asks by right what he cannot give. 

40 



The Foundations of Married Happiness. 

Sometimes the wife is never satisfied, sometimes the 
husband. More rarely there is definite perversion 
in one or other of the parties to the marriage. The 
causes are, indeed, varied, and to produce marital 
happiness often requires a nicety of balance. But 
once this balance is established, then all the 
secondary relations of marriage begin to prosper. 
Business, though unchanged in its actual character, 
becomes less harassing to the husband, and domestic 
annoyances, which previously formed as it were a 
setting to the wife's dissatisfaction, are now regarded 
by her with calm judgment. A sound physiology is 
the rock upon which to build up firm wedded 
happiness. Found it upon the shifting sands and 
the whole fabric will be perpetually giving here or 
there, though the couple will attribute their partial 
or complete unhappiness to this and that disaster 
of the day. But it is the foundations that are at 
fault. Were they firm then what appears as a 
disaster, or as an almost unforgivable fault in one's 
partner in life, will appear in a totally different light. 
This is really the primary secret of married happiness. 
Properly appreciated the two find a charm and 
happiness in each other, which often to the un- 
initiated, regarding them as plain and ordinary folk, 
is wholly incomprehensible. 

There are especial times, of course, when con- 
tinence must be observed. At the time of men- 
struation there has always been amongst all peoples 
the strictest continence observed, and amongst 
many peoples there has been and is an additional 
complete separation of husband and wife for a few 
days afterwards. In the law of Moses the breaking 

41 



The Healthy Marriage. 

of this law of continence was punished with death. 
These laws and customs have a sound physiological 
basis. Any infringement of them is apt to lead to 
sudden cessation of the menses with cramp of the 
womb and hysterical symptoms, or on other occasions 
to loss of blood and vaginal discharge. The husband 
also may contract a troublesome urethral catarrh. 

Amongst primitive peoples, as well as Oriental 
civilizations, as has been shown, the profound 
physiological difference of men and women is 
observed not only in the primary relations of life, 
but also in all the secondary manifestations. The 
equality of man and woman, which is the theory 
that subsumes the sex relations in the spreading of 
demccracy, is from the biological and physiological 
point of view romantic nonsense. It has no basis 
in bodily fact. There is no question of equality and 
inequality in man and woman, but a definite differ- 
ence. This difference is shown in the respect the 
men show for the inherent modesty in women, and 
the desire of the latter to be separated from the 
opposite sex at times of physiological functioning, 
which is peculiar to the female sex. It is this that 
leads to the separation of the sexes at the menstrual 
period. Similarly during pregnancy amongst some 
peoples of the world there is the same greater 
privacy on the part of the wives, a privacy as 
strictly regarded by the husbands as the proprieties 
of society are regarded amongst civilized people. 
But this separation of husbands and wives during 
pregnancy is by no means widely spread. Amongst 
civilized people it is not regarded at all, nor is it to 
be commended. 

42 



Times for Continence. 

Continence should be observed for the month 
preceding the birth of the child. After the birth of 
the child, the Bible lays down a continence of forty 
days or some six weeks. Amongst some peoples, 
continence is observed until the child is weaned. 
Though continence is not necessary during preg- 
nancy, there are cases of pregnancy when it is 
necessary. Such cases are those threatened by 
miscarriage, for intercourse may bring on the mis- 
carriage. Continence should be observed for at 
least a month after all signs of threatened mis- 
carriage, such as loss of blood, has ceased, and then 
should be very moderate. If miscarriage occurs, 
continence should be observed for six weeks as after 
a childbirth. 

Continence should also be observed if there is 
any bleeding with intercourse, unless it occur in the 
beginning of marriage, when it is frequent. With 
this exception, however, continence should be 
observed and a doctor's advice sought. 

As has been said, during the process of suckling 
the child until weaning, continence is observed 
amongst some people. At this time, amongst 
civilized people, there is not as a rule continence, 
but moderation should be enjoined more particularly 
than at other periods. The process of suckling a 
child is one that evidently entails some physical 
sacrifice upon the part of the mother, for nature has 
provided the general rule, a rule not free from 
exceptions, that the suckling mother does not 
become pregnant. The strain of suckling is evi- 
dently sufficient, and nature does not permit that 
of pregnancy to be added to it. 

43 



The Healthy Marriage. 

Marriage can scarcely be said to be fully com- 
pleted until a child is born. Amongst the Zulus, 
Nubians and other tribes, the wife is not regarded 
as a wife in the full sense of taking over her estab- 
lished rights until a child is born. Both physically 
and psychologically marriage is not really completed 
until the birth of the child. The narrowing sense 
of individualism, then, becomes leavened with 
the sense of race and family, and the social feeling 
which alone can displace egotism becomes widened 
by the care and love which through the child the 
parents feel for the future generation. Moreover, 
the husband's feeling for his wife certainly gains in 
respect when he regards her as a mother, and the 
husband no longer appears to the wife only as her 
mate, but she regards him with peculiar tenderness 
as the father of her child. These changes and 
expansions of feeling, though they may not be quite 
general, are perfectly definite. They are not 
romantic, but are felt by parents to arise quite 
definitely when the child is born. Their speech 
conveys it. The husband becomes the papa in the 
wife's eyes, she identifying herself with the child, 
and the husband addresses his wife by such endearing 
terms as " little mother." 

As regards the frequency of childbearing, it may 
be laid down that nature has given a good guide in 
that she prevents conception taking place with few 
exceptions whilst the child is being suckled. In 
most countries of the world, the period of suckling 
stretches over at least two years. Consequently a 
space of some three years elapses between the 
successive births of children. Such an interval may 

44 



The Limitation of Offspring. 

be regarded as one which nature orders for the due 
protection of the mother from the strain of excessive 
childbearing. Moreover, with the natural height of 
infant mortality, it forms one of the chief agents for 
the limitation of population. There is a great fear 
of over-population since Malthus' famous book. 
But in China, a country whose history has been 
remarkably free from devastating wars, one sees 
that the two agents above-mentioned, pilus the 
ordinary mortality, which prevents many who are 
born from reaching marital and parental years, 
have very notable effect in restricting popula- 
tion from reaching impossible limits through the 
centuries. 

In France, Germany and England of the present 
day, amongst the upper classes the two-child rule, 
as it is called, largely prevails. It is a rule of 
certain decline, for rarely do both children attain to 
marital years and themselves have children. This 
limitation of families is brought about by the use 
of precautionary measures taken by the parents 
against conception ; as a result, they limit their 
families to the small numbers to which, in their 
opinion, they will be able to give the inestimable 
advantages of a modern education and, perhaps, 
a stock of capital as a start in life. Not infre- 
quently, owing to the death of one child, the other 
child is brought up to absorb the whole of the 
parental love and care. The one-child marriage 
may bring a sufficiency of content to the parents, 
and they are proud of the selfish, indulged, inadapt- 
able, round-shouldered, thin, clever, and highly- 
educated product of their union. But such wither- 

45 



The Healthy Marriage. 

ing up of family life means a withering up of social 
life. Life becomes no longer a question of give 
and take, but merely one of take. 

The subject of the relation of the family to 
society and history I have dealt with in another 
book. Here I have to deal briefly with the deplor- 
able fact that preventive measures and checks to 
conception are used in the most widespread manner, 
a use that has been practically enforced by a 
commercial civilization, whose standard and god 
is money. The practice is part of the civilization. 
It cannot be regarded separately. Nevertheless, 
much as I dislike this limitation and shrivelling of 
the family and its influences, I feel bound to state 
that the evils which, according to many writers, 
invariably follow the use of any kind of check, are 
exaggerated. That many of them do cause hysteria, 
nervousness and more definite forms of illness is 
undoubted. That their use will also be paid for by 
additional suffering in women, when the change of 
life comes, is also true. Nevertheless, there are 
some forms which are not directly harmful to health. 
They do not make women ill in the modern sense, 
for modern people seem to be contented with a 
quality of health much below that which mankind 
with wisdom could possess. I do not think it fair 
to frighten women with the perils of all forms of 
checks, when these same women live in terror of 
being submerged in poverty if they have too many 
children. The whole question is a deplorable 
one, and there is little or no remedy for it whilst 
civilization continues to progress in its present 
courses of the dominating influences of commerce, 

46 



Childless Marriage. 

money, additional costs of the necessities and addi- 
tional necessities of life, and the painful subordina- 
tion of life's true physiological issues. 

There are, it is true, some marriages which are 
not blessed with children. There are even mar- 
riages in which there is a voluntary avoidance of 
all childbearing. It is rare for such marriages to 
be happy, though occasionally they are so As a 
rule it is said the wife is the one who suffers most. 
Her desire for a child is greater than is the husband's. 
I am not sure that this statement is correct to-day. 
In voluntary childless marriage, I have never yet 
discovered that it was the husband who desired the 
marriage to be childless, and what one sees in the 
extreme may not be untrue for the average. My 
belief is that in urban populations, at any rate, the 
husband is as eager for, and perhaps, as devoted to 
the children as the mother, and though the maternal 
instinct is a very definite thing, I do not believe 
that the paternal instinct is any the less definite. 
I have found that the sterility of the marriage, 
however it be caused, is a decided grief to the 
husband and, wheresoever the wife is not wholly 
bent upon her individual pleasures, a great grief to 
her as well. Indeed, the women, who through 
dread of child-bearing, the absorbing duties of 
motherhood, the loss of their youth, and as they 
hold their beauty, women, such as one sees, especially 
amongst the fashion in the United States, are 
mostly heavily punished by an enduring discontent, 
a perpetual restless search for the undiscoverable, 
a feeling of the emptiness of life, though it be 
filled with a ceaseless round of appointments 

47 



The Healthy Marriage. 

and pleasures, the vague "but definite pessimism, 
which is sharpness itself in discovering the faults 
and imperfections of life and fails to be conscious 
of the deep tides of reality, which transcend mere 
happiness in the sense of the volume and substance 
of life. I would go so far as to state that wives 
ought to be made to have children; childbearing 
should never be left to their individual choice. 
They do not know the treasure that is awaiting 
them, and custom has no right whatsoever to 
overlay their natural instincts with a lot of false 
opinions and intellectual poses as it does to-day. 
I say that the choice of having children should 
never be left to young married women. The very 
fact that their instincts moved them to marriage 
in the great majority of cases shows that the joys 
they will receive with maternity are latent within 
them. Then, when their babies are born, the false 
opinions and the nonsense that is talked and written 
to-day vanishes before the genuine gifts of nature. 
I know, even as a man, no delight so great as that 
of holding one's first-born in one's arms and the joy 
to a mother must be the most exquisite that this 
world can give. It itself is the joy of giving, the 
true joy of gifts from one's strength. The baby 
takes all, it is too weak to give. Consequently, 
from the mother, nature requires that a source of 
giving and, if you will, self-sacrifice, though I 
would prefer the term of self -fulfilment, should 
spring up freshened and made sparkling with love. 
Texts by their repetition are apt to lose the striking 
truth that lies within them. Only when they 
suddenly make conjunction with the feelings of the 






The Realised Truth. 

heart, does their great worth illuminate life, the 
world and its true meaning. Thus it comes about 
that women hear again and again without heed the 
text that speaks of the joy that a woman feels when 
a man-child is born into the world. But when her 
lips are upon the child's cheek or its lips against her 
breast, then all the modern verbiage upon marriage 
vanishes and the truth of this noble text stands out 
before her like one of the eternal hills which has 
divested itself of a mantle of enveloping cloud. 






. na 
j 



49 



CHAPTER III. 
Sterility. 

" The grave; and the barren womb." Proverbs, xxx. 16. 

THE barren womb or sterility is justly considered 
a great grief to a married woman. Therefore, in 
this all-important matter to their health and happi- 
ness for the proper fulfilment of life has a profound 
influence upon health women have as great a right 
to reliable information as they have concerning 
other matters, which touch them far less closely. 
As it is, however, though burdened with education, 
there is astonishingly little information given to 
people on the most vital issues of life. There are 
two reasons for this : Firstly, amongst medical men 
and students there is very little teaching and know- 
ledge about sterility and kindred subjects, and 
.secondly, such doctors as do know something about 
them seem to be afraid of writing. These subjects 
deal with sex, and to pay heed to sex is dangerous. 
Yet the question of sterility is one vital to the happi- 
ness of many married people, and, as many of the 
causes of sterility are subject to cure, j^ "h guidance 
as one can give has a definite value. ' - ( v, 

About one in ten marriages are said to be chiu^ss. 
The inability for the marriage to be fertile is som- 
times due to the woman, sometimes to the man , 

5 



Causes in the Male. 

sometimes to incompatibility between the two. I 
will first speak of the causes of sterility in the male, 
which subject, perhaps, is less pertinent to this book, 
though one cannot write of sterility without thought 
of the husband. Here, then, at the outset I would 
say, that unless the cause of sterility is obviously in 
the wife, the husband should always be examined 
by a medical man. It is not fair to submit a wife 
to treatment, which is naturally not pleasant for her 
and may involve some minor operative work, and in 
rare cases a more serious operation, without the 
husband first submitting to examination. There are 
men who have lost power owing to peculiar phases of 
diseases that are only too common in those who have 
delayed marriage. There are others to whom power 
is actually wanting, there are others who from sheer 
nervousness, especially in the earlier part of marriage, 
are impotent, and there are others suffering from 
diseases or congenital defects which make paternity 
impossible. Clearly, then, in such cases it would be 
a great abuse for a married couple to decide to let 
the wife consult a medical man and be treated 
without the husband first submitting to examination. 
Sterility in men is sometimes curable, but as a rule 
the causes leading to his lack of fertility are such as 
do not permit of cure. Lastly, the most common 
cause of sterility, of course, affects men, namely, age. 
Men who marry about the age of twenty-five are 
most sure of having children. At thirty-five their 
chance is decreased by about one-third, and at the 
age of forty-five by over two-thirds. It is rare for 
men who marry at fifty-five, or over, to have 
children, but, of course, it is not impossible. The 

i 4-2 



The Healthy Marriage. 

children of men marrying late in life are also less 
vital and tend to die in infancy. The children of 
very young fathers, namely, twenty or under, also 
have not the vitality of those born to fathers between 
the ages of twenty-five and forty. Such are the 
general rules. 

As regards sterility in women, it may be con- 
genital owing to defective development or function- 
ing of the womb and its related organs. It may be 
acquired. Acquired sterility is said to exist when, 
in spite of the wishes of the husband and wife, no 
pregnancy has occurred for three years. This time 
limit makes a good practical rule for those who like 
mathematical rules. But married people will usually 
be directed by their own feelings as to when to seek 
advice. 

Congenital sterility in the woman is due to the 
lack of proper development of the generative organs. 
Fortunately it is rare. When existent, it is not 
always possible for a doctor to detect it. BuHt has 
this practical importance, namely, that, owing to the 
close relation between the development of the 
generative organs and menstruation, congenital 
sterility may show itself in complete absence of the 
proper menstruation. It is by no means the only 
cause of absence of menstruation in a girl, but it is 
obviously one of great moment. No girl who does 
not have proper menstrual periods has any right 
to marry without a doctor first being consulted. I 
have known such marriages to occur. I have 
known such stories as this namely, of marriage and 
congratulations, attempted suicide of the young 
wife during the honeymoon, flight from her husband 

52 






Congenital Sterility. 

followed by a decree of nullity of marriage, all due 
to neglect of the advice actually given by the 
doctor, to whom the mother of the bride had taken 
her daughter. But not all cases of maldevelopment 
are incurable. In some, in which the lack of 
development is only partial, the condition can be 
remedied by taking in medical form the thyroid 
and pituitary glands of animals. Sometimes, too, 
marriage itself causes development to prcceed to 
fulfilment. The defect is one of delayed develop- 
ment. So there is no need to despair in these rare 
cases, for there have been instances where married 
women, who had never menstruated owing to this 
reason, have been sterile for many years, but 
eventually borne children. Nevertheless, justly 
regarded, such women should not marry without 
proper medical advice. 

Acquired sterility is far more common and has a 
number of causes, with which I shall deal in so far 
as women themselves would notice them. 

The only natural cause of acquired sterility is 
age. The fertility of women in this respect follows 
roughly that of men, antedated by some five years. 
Thus marriage is most fertile when women marry at 
the age of twenty. When entered into at the age 
of thirty its fertility is diminished by about a half, 
and at forty by three-quarters. These are the 
general rules of the effect of the woman's age at 
marriage upon her fertility, but the age of the 
husband naturally has an important bearing. The 
maximum fertility of a woman marrying at twenty 
occurs when her husband is about twenty-six, of a 
woman marrying at twenty-five when her husband 

53 



The Healthy Marriage. 

is twenty-eight, and with women thirty or over 
when the husband is proportionately younger. The 
most fertile unions result from marriages of women 
of twenty or twenty-one to men of twenty-five or 
twenty-six. 

Any disease of the womb or its associated organs 
tends to produce sterility, which may be absolute. 
These conditions are usually betrayed to the woman 
by the pain they give her, especially in the back, or 
the whites and discharge from which she suffers. 
Sometimes inflammatory diseases follow a childbirth 
or miscarriage. The woman is ill in her lying-in 
period and from that time her fertility may cease. 
Such cases as these may, however, be cured by the 
doctor, and the fertility be re-established, but such 
a cure is rare. More often if sterility follows a child- 
bed fever it is an absolute sterility. Such sterility 
may be consequent upon the first or any other child- 
birth. Most frequently it follows the first. One 
child is born, but from its birth onward the mother 
is rendered incapable of again becoming pregnant 
owing to the womb after childbirth becoming 
seriously inflamed and bound and constricted by 
resulting adhesions. This so-called one-child sterility 
is particularly apt to occur in the young wives of 
men who, at some time, have had illness and not 
submitted to thorough examination and treatment 
before marriage. It emphasises the importance of 
such premarital examination in men who have 
lived the premarital life that is common at the 
present time. 

There are many commoner causes of inflammation 
of these parts leading to backache, sense of weight 

54 



Acquired Sterility. 

in the loins and whites or vaginal discharge than 
this infection. In such cases barrenness sometimes 
results, sometimes it does not. But though one 
cannot say definitely that a woman with vaginal 
discharge will be sterile and frequently she is not 
yet one can say that she will tend to be sterile. 
There is no doubt that women without discharge are 
more fertile than women with discharge. Therefore 
any catarrh or more serious inflammation of the 
private parts should never be neglected by a woman 
who desires children, apart from her desire for health. 
I repeat that this catarrh very often will have little 
or no effect upon her fertility. On the other hand 
it may do so. It may cause her to have complete 
sterility or to have frequent miscarriages ; and the 
practical importance is this, namely, that these 
catarrhs and inflammations are frequently curable, 
and with their cure the ability to bear full term 
children may be re-established. Other diseases, such 
as tumours of the womb and ovaries, may bring 
about an acquired sterility, which may be cured with 
their cure. The signs they give may be very slight 
or marked. A woman may have slight discomfort, 
pain, flooding or other trouble, which sends her to 
her doctor, rather than does her anxiety to become a 
mother. 

It is the same with displacements of the womb. 
They by no means necessarily produce barrenness, 
but they do often produce an unhealthy state of the 
interior of the womb, so that the natural implanta- 
tion of the fertilized ovum cannot take place. Either 
complete sterility takes place or miscarriages occur. 
The usual signs of displacement that a woman 

55 



The Healthy Marriage. 

notices are long, lasting backache, pain especially 
when she becomes constipated, occasionally pain 
with intercourse, and the whites. If she have these 
signs she is wise to go to a doctor, for often he can 
cure her completely, and usually he can do her good. 
Her cure, too, may be followed by the re-establish- 
ment of her fertility. The same may be said of 
prolapse of the womb, consequent upon tears and 
injuries at childbirth. 

There is a peculiar form of painful menstruation, 
which is frequently associated with sterility. The 
pain may occur at the first menstruation or begin at 
a later date. It is peculiarly violent and spasmodic. 
The unfortunate sufferers are made sick and to sweat 
by it. It does not last many hours and is relieved 
when the flow comes freely. This terrible monthly 
pain and its associated sterility may be completely 
cured by a small operation upon the neck of the 
womb. There are other peculiarities of the neck of 
the womb that tend to cause sterility, but do not 
cause pain. One famous American doctor said, 
indeed, that some such peculiarity was to be found 
in 85 per cent, of the cases of natural sterility. 
Treatment in these cases may have very favourable 
results and pregnancy occur soon after it. 

Obesity is a condition that is associated with 
scanty menstruation and sterility. 

Alcohol, taken too freely, is a definite cause of 
sterility. Very painful intercourse and excessive 
intercourse both may be causes of acquired sterility, 
and causes which are curable. So also is absence or 
deficiency of sensation associated with sterility. It 
is not necessarily so, but women so affected are far 

56 






Further Causes. 

more likely to be sterile than are other women. 
The absence of feeling seems to be anticonceptive in 
other ways, for such women very often are unable 
to retain the male seed, but one cannot in a book 
give the remedy for this. 

There are also unexplained conditions of incom- 
patibility between husband and wife, in which a 
woman, sterile in a first marriage, is fertile in her 
second. 

There are also a number of serious diseases to 
which sterility is secondary, such as severe anaemia, 
severe heart disease, Bright's disease and advanced 
consumption. 

Lastly, there is the sterility following operation 
purposely designed to bring it about, a cause which 
at one time was far too frequent and brought about 
for too light reasons. Now, however, such opera- 
tions are only undertaken, after serious considera- 
tion, in forms of illness and deformity which need 
not here be mentioned. 

Such are the conditions that cause or tend to cause 
sterility. Many of them are curable, and therein 
lies the importance of this chapter. 






57 



CHAPTER IV. 
Neurosis. 

Worry, Neurasthenia, and Hysteria. 

"Their ceaseless troubles and distresses, displayed in a 
thousand different ways, are to be cured from one point 
only." Goethe's "Faust" 

To properly write upon these hydras of modern 
life would need a large volume at the least. If 
serenity is associated with a certain amount of order, 
of repetition, and that which necessarily results from 
repetition, namely familiarity without surprise, 
shock, or the strain of meeting the new, then one has 
only to look round the modern civilized world to see 
how very wanting it is in these characteristics. If 
one goes into a modern drawing-room, or a modern 
street, or a modern concert or music-hall, or in fact, 
a modern anything at all, one sees nearly invariably, 
crowding without order, accumulation without 
selection. A drawing-room has big chairs, little 
chairs, sofas, settees, stools, little tables, big tables, 
tables spread with different bits of china, others 
spread with different oddments in silver, others with 
brass knick-knacks, a crowded mantelpiece, photo- 
graphs, drawings, water-colours, oil-colours, etchings, 
prints ; in fact, a modern drawing-room looks like a 
store-house of oddments, many set out like things in 
a shop, some sensible, many senseless and impossible 

58 



The Disintegration of Life. 

to order in such a way as to produce serenity in the 
mind observing them. The modern street is the 
same. It is a mass of confused traffic, hoots, bells, 
screechers, bustlers and hustlers. A modern shop 
is the same. Its great object is to display multi- 
plicity, to advertise all its possessions by having 
them on the surface, to have no secret treasures nor 
any space that corresponds to leisure. The things 
are crammed together, each article as far as possible 
screaming for attention. I need not continue with 
the concert, where a Beethoven Sonata is succeeded 
by a Sullivan pot-pourri, or the diverse dabs of a 
music-hall entertainment. Everywhere it is the 
same, the same lack of continuity, the same lack of 
wholeness, the same lack of space and leisure, the 
perpetual serving up of trifles that have some oddity 
to attract attention, but which is of so shallow a 
character that it only holds the attention for a brief 
time, and then the mind turns to some new titivation. 
Serenity, which goes with calmness and wholeness, 
has little place in the modern world. Excitement 
and its faithful companion irritability and with 
irritability, of course, exhaustion, for irritability is a 
sign of exhaustion are the prevailing moods that 
have captured the people, old and young alike. 
Petty annoyances, they say, will drive even a 
philosopher to his grave, and the modern world is 
full of petty annoyances, owing to lack of wholeness 
and the serenity that produces good work. 'Every- 
thing is made to sell and not to last to allure, but 
not to please with permanent good friendship or 
service. It is as if Leicester Square were going to 
become the hub of the world. Nothing will bear 

59 



The Healthy Marriage. 

pressure. Everything, and some might say every- 
one, gives way directly some great weight or duty is 
put upon it. Little things there are so few big 
things in a rushing world, for a tearing river has no 
striding rollers like the broad Atlantic little things 
are perpetually going wrong in a way to vex the 
heart of the most patient wife and housewife. The 
chair she bought begins to creak when anyone sits 
down on it. The doors begin to give when there is a 
high wind. The cook, who for the first week or so 
seemed so agreeable and so pleased with her place, 
begins to grumble. The closed windows let in the 
icy draughts. Housemaids are always breaking- 
things in the pantry, and tradespeople are always 
breaking their promises. The wife herself finds that 
her own and her children's stock of health is as dis- 
continuous and variable as the things about her. 
It shows as many unexpected idiosyncrasies and 
aberrations as her furniture and household fittings. 
Her husband's business seems also to be subject to 
fits and frights, and the world's face, as reported in 
the daily papers, is always being rendered ugly by 
some nasty eruption of general catastrophe, social 
evil, or domestic tragedy. The wife feels that she 
is beset with incertitude. All continuity seems to 
be lacking. The moment alone seems of importance, 
the pleasure it contains or its pain. It becomes the 
order of the day to fill each moment with something 
from without, with pleasure, business, shopping, 
slumming, it matters not what. Be busy, be always 
occupied or entertained. Keep your lives and 
minds filled with outer things. Such seems to me to 
be the advice the world gives to women to-day. It 

60 



Being Highly-strung. 

is as if people dare not look into themselves, for if 
they look into themselves they fear to see the 
primary sources of proper life dried up or choked 
or perverted. 

It is this neglect, ignorance and even scorn of the 
primary sources of life which lead to the enormous 
and increasing amount of nervousness, worry, and 
hysteria of the present day. I can only briefly 
touch upon these maladies. I cannot give full 
instructions to my readers. But I can give them 
some indication as to how they can avoid or rid 
themselves of the demons of anxiety, fear and 
suppressed longings and desires that people the 
modern world. For it is well to be rid of them. 
There is no greater folly than to harbour them, and 
even convert them into the virtue of being " highly 
-strung." It is far better to be well balanced than 
highly strung. If one is highly strung, one is apt 
to snap and be snappy. It is not a sign of exquisite 
refinement, but sickly refinement. All things 
exquisitely refined, such as the Parthenon for 
instance, or the Erechtheum, are strong as well as 
refined, and require powder magazines to shatter 
them. But sickly refinement, the superficial ornate 
which falls to pieces at a breath of adversity, cannot 
be a matter of congratulation. 

The sign of satisfaction is contentment. A man 
and woman pleased with their house do not set about 
getting another one. A man satisfied with his wife 
does not want to divorce her, and a woman satisfied 
with her husband does not want a lover. If she 
says it is natural for her to want greater freedom in 
this matter, it means either that she or her husband 

61 



The Healthy Marriage. 

are not sufficient in marriage. Marriage being the 
most important condition in married people's lives, 
dissatisfaction in it becomes centrifugal ; it tends to 
spread to all the circle of their lives. Dissatisfied 
married people, being dissatisfied at the core, are 
dissatisfied throughout. They may get momentary 
pleasures here, forgetfulness there, some sort of 
narcotic, whether of extreme business or gadding 
about as it is called, or an affair, but fundamentally 
the dissatisfaction remains. It cannot be banished. 
It can only be banished by the radical measure of 
divorce, and divorced people can scarcely flatter 
themselves that they have been good choosers in 
and directors of their lives. Divorce is not a thing 
to be proud of, it is an open acknowledgment of 
grievous failure ; and the currents of our lives, to 
run clearly and purposefully along their courses, do 
not admit of such grievous failures. 

To married women, then, satisfaction in marriage 
is the only proper source of genuine happiness and 
contentment, and, with contentment, proper and 
natural development of her personality. Discontent 
warps and blights. Content, by which I do not 
mean a perpetual smile, but the feeling that life even 
when hard is right and purposeful, alone develops 
the character positively from a central healthy 
source. There may be such a thing as a divine 
discontent, but it should only be divine, namely, the 
vexations that the gods or their interpreters, the 
men of inspired genius, feel when they see men in 
vanity depart from the paths of wisdom. 

I now come to the central point of my advice. 
Marriage is essentially a physiological condition. 

62 



The Results of Faulty Physiology. 

Its contentment and satisfaction is founded upon 
sound physiology. Without sound physiology 
genuine satisfaction cannot be obtained. It is true 
that some people are born or become so unsound 
before they marry that they bring unsound 
physiology and consequent dissatisfaction into their 
marriages. But I am not speaking of these cases. 
The discussion of them, as yet, belongs wholly to 
the physician and not to a book of this kind. They 
can be bettered greatly by proper understanding 
and treatment. Nor am I referring to eugenics or 
eugenists ; I am referring to the hundreds of cases of 
healthy and educated people who become dis- 
satisfied with their marriages or become nervous, 
anxious, worrying, neurasthenic or even hysterical, 
and do not know the real cause. They attribute 
their troubles to all sorts of outside reasons, com- 
monly known as troubles, or else to temperament. 
But in the great majority of cases the true reason 
is faulty marital physiology. 

The unhappiness and misery that is caused to 
married and also to unmarried people at the present 
day owing to faulty physiology is terrible, and the 
ignorance and folly of it all is just as terrible. All 
this worry and anxiety and mental fever and per- 
petual business and mad haste is not necessary in 
life. All the unhappiness it entails is not necessary. 
With sound physiology it does not exist. With it 
about us on every side, we yet see mothers and wives, 
models of happiness, serenity and health, who are 
wholly free from it. Such married women should 
be our aim, the physician's aim, at least. He cannot 
look with favour on the highly strung. I shall now 

63 



The Healthy Marriage. 

touch briefly on the results and nature of faulty 
physiology, compelled to do so by the assurance 
that this part of my advice to women is more 
valuable than any other part of the book. 

Let a woman secure a healthy marital physiology. 
It is not always in her power to do so, but if secured 
it will be the foundation of her willing acceptance of 
life. With sound physiology a thing quite different 
to the artificial health and muscles physical culturists 
give there is sound foundation, and the other 
things, such as the ability to meet what would 
ordinarily annoy with serenity, such as good sleep, 
contentedness of mind, desire to cultivate herself 
and home practically and not fret with vain longings, 
all these will be added. Neurosis is probably 
altogether impossible with healthy physiological 
marital life. It seems to be wholly unknown to 
the nations of the Orient, which, except when 
Europeanised, found their civilisations and social 
spirit upon marriage and parenthood. 

Neurosis shows itself in an extraordinary number 
of manifestations, bewildering often to both patient 
and friends. It is these manifestations that appear 
so important themselves, and they totally obscure 
the real physiological fault. They are such things 
as headache, pressure in the head, flatulent 
dyspepsia, some forms of constipation, general 
irritability, auditory hypersensitiveness, insomnia, 
anxious expectation, exaggerative gloomy outlook, 
petulancy, meticulous conscientiousness, fears and 
phobias of various kinds, fear of cancer, of heart 
disease, of a crowd, of loneliness, of loss of money, 
of loss of love, of insanity, of the children's health 

64 



Protean Symptoms. 

(a fear and nervousness the children often catch 
from their mother), also palpitation of the heart, 
attacks of asthma, nocturnal perspiration, dislike of 
the children, feeling them a worry rather than a 
pleasure, dizziness, actual fainting, nightmare, loss 
of appetite, capricious appetite, perpetual doubt as 
to action, nausea, diarrhoea, queer feelings in the 
body, rheumatic pains, rapid pulse, mental stupor, t 
insuperable languor, melancholy, fits of crying, 
hysterical paralysis, seizures and imitations of real 
diseases. 

The list is a formidable one, but it emphasises the 
more the importance of proper sexual physiology to 
a contented acceptance and healthy appreciation of 
life. Neurosis is practically invariably connected 
with some fault in that fundamental relation of 
mankind which is so emphatically established by its 
division in the two great groups of men and women. 
Therefore, if a married woman suffer from these 
things, let her pay heed first and foremost to the 
natural sense and normal conduct of her intimate 
relations as a woman to her husband. Frequently 
she will find or know of some anomaly, but fre- 
quently, too, she will not be able to discover the 
source of her or her husband's neurosis. Then, if she 
know of some doctor, skilled in the understanding of 
human nature, and able to discover the primary 
physiological faults and separate them from the 
confusing number of secondary incidents and 
personal happenings, with which the woman herself 
overlays and obscures them, she should certainly 
seek his advice. He may be able to do her the 
greatest good and convert a life of fret, worry, and 
H.M. 65 5 



The Healthy Marriage. 

doubt, into one of content and achievement. He 
may do more in cases where more has to be done. 
He may cure and abolish hysterical paralysis that 
has kept a woman bedridden for years. There 
seems, indeed, to be no limit to the multifarious 
forms by which faulty sexual physiology displays 
itself, nor in the good that doctors versed in psycho- 
logy can effect in such cases. 



66 



CHAPTER V. 
Exercise 

" Man takes root at his feet, and at best he is no more 
than a potted plant in his house or carriage till he has 
established communication with the soil by the loving and 
magnetic touch of his soles to it." Hazlitt. 

HAVING dealt as far as is possible with the 
peculiar hygiene of marriage, we can now deal with 
ordinary hygiene, concerning which the pen is per- 
mitted to run with freedom. A first principle of 
ordinary hygiene is exercise, the purposive move- 
ment which is the characteristic of living beings. 

All human beings have the habit of movement for 
its own sake, at least in youth they exercise them- 
selves for the sake of exercise. In the Occident, this 
exercise for its own sake is largely pursued by people 
who have long passed their youth. In the Orient, 
the elder folk of some nations, and especially the 
women of the better classes, do not take exercise for 
its own sake. Some women, indeed, are greatly 
restrained by the Mahommedan system of purdah. 
Yet it is not known that these women have difficult 
childbirths. Indeed it seems possible that they 
would be found by the statistician to have easier 
times than European women. Whatsoever effect 
exercise may have upon childbirth, from the point 
of view of health, there can be no question as 
to its direct value. One has only to compare the 

67 5-2 



The Healthy Marriage. 

English women of the country, with their red cheeks 
and lips, and their bright eyes and animated gestures, 
with these Oriental women, with their wearied 
expressions and slothful gestures, to see how much 
more vigorous is the race whose women, as well as 
men, make a cult of exercise. It is true there are 
some English women who are rarely forced to pur- 
posive movement, and who care nothing for exercise, 
who consequently sit in chairs or in motor-cars, or 
lie upon the sofa and do not exert their muscles. 
But these women are seldom healthy. They are 
pestered with minor ailments, and they are wholly 
deprived of the glorious glow of keen vitality that is 
the reward of a more sensible type of living. Per- 
haps no women are more indolent in this respect 
than the Russian women, especially of southern 
Russia, and it is notorious that they suffer from all 
sorts of complaints and nervous attacks that are 
bred upon the sofa. Quite a number of them become 
invalids when they should be in the vigour of life, 
some become melancholy, and some actually become 
insane. 

There can be no doubt then of the value of 
exercise. It is one of the really important things 
in life, and if it is not directly, purposive, then it 
must be for its own sake. No one, of course, would 
recommend a country postman, who has to tramp 
twenty miles a day on his rounds, to take exercise. 
He is fortunate enough to have all his movement 
purposive. I say fortunate, for with many of us, 
what is not imposed by necessity, is apt to be 
neglected. This is particularly the case with women 
who live in large cities. London, for example, in 

68 



Conspiracy against Exercise. 

spite of its rush and hustle, seems purposely to 
design against exercise. If one wants to move from 
place to place, there are motor cars, taxis, omnibuses, 
railways, tubes, so that exercise is almost as un- 
necessary to a lady as it is to a parcel. She can be 
handed from place to place with scarcely a vigorous 
move on her own part. Even the exercise that stairs 
impose upon her is taken away by a lift or a moving 
platform. With so many conveniences, exercise 
depends more and more upon her own determination. 
She herself must decide to undertake this necessary 
measure for her health. Town life, as I have said, 
deliberately robs her of this invaluable health asset. 
It conspires against her, and its conspiracy is cease- 
less. Even if she acknowledges the value of exercise 
and sets out for a walk, the conspiracy still pursues 
her. No sooner is she a little tired, than she has the 
natural desire to be assisted. Nature itself, no 
doubt, would assist her by making her rest for a 
while. Five minutes of such rest would undoubtedly 
refresh her, and enable her to continue both her walk 
and her determination. But some member of the 
conspiracy is immediately upon her to take advan- 
tage of her temporary weakness. A man attracts 
her with, " Taxi, ma'am," a tube station advertises 
at its entrance a map of its octopian power, buses run 
by, obedient to a raised hand or nod there is 
scarcely anywhere where one of these seductions will 
not allure her, and she usually yields. She is 
conveyed, and others benefit by the journey which 
she is forced to make, and not herself. Not only 
does she lose the exercise, but, as time goes on, she 
requires more and more resolution to deliberately 



The Healthy Marriage. 

walk from place to place. She yields more and more 
to the conveniences, until the plan of her life cannot 
be continued without them. She arranges to do so 
much, that it cannot possibly be done unless she is 
carried about at a greater speed than her own legs 
will carry her. Exercise per se goes to the wall, and 
this disaster, which might not be so great in itself, is 
enhanced by the fact that all purposive movement is 
taken from her. Her movement becomes reduced to 
a bare minimum. She has to move to dress herself, 
to come downstairs and to go upstairs, unless a lift 
saves her from these exertions. She has to step 
across the path into her motor car or taxi, or a little 
way to a tube or bus. But over and above this, she 
scarcely moves at all. All the 300 muscles of her 
body languish, and those of the heart get disabled 
for any but the feeblest exertion. Palpitations and 
weariness consequently come readily to her. The 
muscles of her chest, which alternately enlarge and 
compress her lungs, instead of being fine and 
vigorous bellows, are not able to do the work a pair 
of hand bellows can accomplish, as she may test by 
-trying to blow out a candle at a distance. A 
moment of extra exertion will throw her into a 
breathless condition. It is the same with the 
muscles of the abdomen, which have such important 
functions in digestion and in aiding the opening of 
the bowels. They sag and become weak, fat invades 
them and the abdominal wall, and the youthful 
figure that was once my lady's pride, now becomes 
to her a distress that is only tolerable because many 
of her friends and neighbours are no better off. The 
muscles of her back also give way, except for the 

70 



A Continuous Spectator. 

stalwart support of her corset, and she is constantly 
reminded of their weakness by the backache from 
which she suffers. Her legs become cumbersome 
and feeble, and if she had at any time to jump two 
feet to save her life, this unusual exertion would 
probably be a fate to her. This weakness of her 
legs and the increase in her figure eventually rob 
her of the one exercise that still fascinates, namely 
dancing. She has to give it up and watch others. 
Eventually she becomes almost entirely a watcher, 
a gracious and charming one no doubt, but never- 
theless always a spectator and never herself active. 
She sits at the theatre, she sits in concerts, she goes 
to watch the young folk dance, she sits in the grand 
stand at Lord's and sees her sons and nephews ply 
the willow, she goes to Henley and sits on a house- 
boat watching the flashing oars, she is always the 
watcher wherever she goes, be it a bazaar, a flower 
show, a garden party, there must be abundant chairs 
for her and her like ; it is ever the same watch, 
watch ; watch the male or the younger and more 
active world go by, while she, with all the beautiful 
apparatus of her 300 muscles which provide the basis 
of such exquisite movement and such glows of 
health, loses them all except those which give play 
to her cultured and gracious speech. 

Women who work in towns may eventually be 
allured into as pitiful a plight. The conveniences of 
conveyances are there to bid for their more slender 
purses. Hurtled through an iron bowel buried deep 
in the earth, with air pumped down to them and the 
light of the metal filament overhead, they are borne 
to their offices, their school, their shop, their factory. 



The Healthy Marriage. 

Arrived at their place of business, often again but 
little true and healthy movement will be allowed 
them. Such as it is, it is usually of the narrow order 
that leads to a single accomplishment of mechanical 
skill, but has no good influence upon the whole 
organism. On the contrary it bends and sacrifices 
the organism to its peculiar speciality. The un- 
wearying fingers have to keep up the eternal click of 
the typewriter, they have to ply to and fro the 
threaded needle, they have to cut out labels, paste 
the edges of cigarettes, do some peculiar work a 
thousand times and again a thousand. And mean- 
while the bowed shoulders are folding in the chest 
and pressing the collar bones upon the area of lung, 
where the germs of consumption first set their 
threatening hold. The muscles of the abdomen are 
relaxed the whole day, and the muscles of the leg 
and back take on the position of rest. Weariness, 
anaemia, constipation, owing to the feeble expulsive 
powers of the abdominal muscles, headache, back- 
ache, feetache, eye strain, indigestion, heartburn 
and conditions predisposing to more serious diseases 
result. The very outlook upon life becomes dark- 
ened It does not get the gracious but flabby 
artificiality of the inert society dame, but it becomes 
viewed, as a feeble warrior views a war, as something 
pregnant with awful possibilities, or at least a long 
and fatiguing struggle with few rewards. 

Ladies and women of the suburbs and country are 
more fortunate than they of the town. The shops, 
the houses of their friends and other places to which 
they have to go are at some distance from their 
homes, and means of conveyance are not so plentiful. 

72 



Exercise in the Country. 

Walk as a rule they have to, and walking soon brings 
them its own reward. Firstly, a habit is engendered, 
and with the omission of the habit, a loss is felt. 
But the loss is more than that due to the disturbance 
of a habit. It is soon found that there is a definite 
loss of health and pleasure if walking is given up. 
The quality of the health is not so fine, and the 
pleasure of the wonderful glow and vigour that 
thrills through the whole body as the result of a 
country walk, becomes not a frequent experience, 
but a memory, which urges the daughter of the 
country to repeat her experiences. There is, in 
fact, in the country and suburbs, not nearly the 
necessity there is in town to impress upon women 
the value of exercise. They know it, and much of 
their lives are planned so that they may indulge in 
it. The well-to-do have games, the less well-to-do 
have excursions and walks. Both may indulge in 
gardening, though as an occupation, gardening tends 
to be too lonely and unsocial to be popular. But 
exercise they have in plenty, and there is little need 
to advise them upon the point. Before they are 
married they have become proficient in a number of 
games and sports, and after they are married they 
continue their pleasures. A few words on the 
relative value of games and exercise will not, 
however, be amiss. 

There are, of course, no substitutes for walking and 
running. These are the purposive locomotive move- 
ments which have been allotted to human beings, 
and, therefore, in their value must be considered 
supreme. Fortunately they enter into most games. 
In the two favourite games of the fair sex, namely, 

73 



The Healthy Marriage. 

tennis and hockey, walking, jumping and running 
in all their variety enter, and enter vigorously. 
These games, then, should be considered as based 
upon natural movements and as exaggerations of 
them. So regarded, they are obviously excellent, 
provided they do not produce that which exaggera- 
tion is apt to produce, namely, extreme fatigue. A 
certain quantum of fatigue is to be expected from any 
game, if only as a result of the excitement produced 
by it. The excitement of the game leads to players 
putting forth greater exertions than they would 
without it, and being brought up to a pitch while the 
game is in progress and suffering sometimes from a 
reaction afterwards. Only when there is extreme 
fatigue, by which I mean fatigue that has not passed 
off before night and needs a long sleep for recovery, 
should the zeal for games be moderated. On the 
whole women are apt to take too little than too 
much exercise, and to be restrained rather than 
encouraged. Hockey seems violent and is distasteful 
to many women. But if a married woman likes to 
play hockey and she finds that she does not suffer 
extreme fatigue, there is no valid reason against it. 
As for tennis, one has only got to look at some of the 
married women who play at the Wimbledon meeting 
to see what excellent health is theirs. One of the 
recent lady champions is my personal friend, and her 
healthy face and healthy life are delightful to witness. 
For older women, croquet is the best game. 
There is more exercise attached to a long game of 
croquet than one would suppose, and the interest in 
the game will often lead a lady, otherwise indolent, 
to take the exercise that is so good for her. 

74 



Swimming, Riding and Golf. 

Swimming and riding one may almost call natural 
exercises. They are certainly two forms of move- 
ment that men and women have readily taken to 
from time immemorial. They are both excellent 
and afford ample variety ; indeed, there are no 
forms of exercise one can so cordially recommend 
as these. The ladies one sees riding in London in the 
Park bear witness to the healthiness riding brings. 
R ding astride is preferable in the symmetrical 
exercise it gives, and is wisely superseding the side- 
saddle. 

As regards swimming, in spite of being mistress 
of the seas, it is a pity England does not pay more 
attention to this delightful exercise. The German 
local authorities make a special point of giving 
townspeople, men, women and children oppor- 
tunities to swim ; but our towns are not so well 
provided. Still, where there are baths or bathing 
establishments, women could not be better advised 
than to take a daily swim in the warmer months, 
both for exercise and pleasure. The rule of not 
bathing and swimming soon after a meal is a sound 
one, for it is but an application of the general rule 
not to take exercise immediately after a meal, 
especially if it has been a heavy one. It does not 
matter having a swim after a light meal such as tea. 

Another commendable and popular game for 
women is golf. Golf takes people out into fine 
country, forces them to walk and exercises the 
arms and shoulders without violence. The chief 
objection to it is the timr that it occupies. As a 
form of daily ei^dse for the sake of health, it is 
well enough for holiation. Tie, but as it demands a 

75 



The Healthy Marriage. 

whole morning or afternoon, it has not the value of 
walking, riding or swimming. 

Rowing is a fine exercise, expanding the chest 
and strengthening the muscles of the shoulders and 
back. For women who suffer from backache and 
live near a river or by the sea a little gentle sculling, 
which is extended by degrees to a more vigorous 
pull, is an excellent remedy. It is also a particular 
good exercise for women with weak chests, who are 
apt to get colds and bronchitis, for it takes them 
to the purest and freshest air and makes them 
inhale it in deep draughts into expanded lungs. 

Motoring is a pleasant occupation, but it is not 
exercise, and it too often prevents a woman from 
taking proper exercise. It is said to be a gocd way 
of taking fresh air and, when there is not much dust, 
this is so. Fortunately, the dust nuisance upon 
high roads has been abated of late, but often a 
motor drive means scouring along in other motors' 
dust and adding a generous quota of one's own. 
Dust is very irritating to the lungs, and in some 
trades actually leads to special forms of consump- 
tion. Motoring at a pace along dusty roads, there- 
fore, cannot be of much benefit to the occupants 
of the car and it is no little bane to walkers and 
other unfortunates, who are enveloped in the clouds 
raised. 

Bicycling is popular as a convenience and as an 
exercise. As an exercise it takes townsfolk out into 
the country, and this ^s its chief commendation. 
For in other respects it ] cannot be praised as an 
exercise apart from a Cf^^enience. The exercise 
it produces is a specialist * s so Tianical one, and the 






Gymnastics. 

crouching over handlebars is the reverse of a healthy 
posture. As a substitute for walking, bicycling is 
to be emphatically ccndemned. 

Certain forms of artificial gymnastic exercise, 
which are popular in some countries of the Continent, 
are attempting to establish themselves in England. 
The medical gymnastics had their origin in Sweden, 
and are greatly in vogue in Germany. One is often 
asked about them, and for my own part I cannot 
recommend them as a substitute or accessory to 
games or walking, even though they are carried out 
in the open air. They are very un-English. Germans 
do not mind coming together in large numbers and 
going through set motions at the command of a 
superior, and the discipline and harmony of move- 
ment, no doubt, are beneficial from a military point 
of view. But advanced as English women are they 
have not yet applied for posts in the army, and are 
not likely to do so. The chief advantage of these 
Swedish exercises, therefore, is lost upon them. 
The disadvantages are that they tend to make 
women muscle specialists, who are capable of 
performing certain peculiar and senseless feats upon 
bars and rings. The exercises are so set and 
featureless they tr come boring, and there is nothing 
so wearying as being bored, nor anything so vitiating 
as going through exercises solely from a sense of 
duty or routine. For these reasons I do not recom- 
mend set gymnastic exercises to English women, 
nor do I think they are likely to become popular. 
At schools and colleges the discipline they impose 
and the need of making girls do stated things gives 
them more justification. If such exercises are 

77 



The Healthy Marriage. 

taken, undoubtedly the most scientific and care- 
fully thought out are the Swedish. For invalids 
and women who are advised by doctors to have 
controlled and guided exercises, the Swedish are the 
most suitable. They are devised not only for 
general exercise, but also to restore strength to 
parts especially weak. Thus, there are even exer- 
cises devised to lessen pelvic congestion, so as to 
decrease the loss at the menstrual period, and others 
to increase the flow. Such exercises may have 
great use in certain ailments, but should not be 
undertaken except at the bidding of a medical man. 
All these exercises and games give strength and 
health, and some give grace, but the exercise that is 
peculiarly valuable in its aesthetic and harmonious 
qualities is dancing. Dancing is an admirable 
exercise and one which has the particular value 
that women are very fond of it. It is easy and 
fascinating when mastered, because the movement 
is harmonious and graceful instead of excited and 
overwrought. It presents the opposite of set 
gymnastic exercises. The latter are essentially 
mechanical as opposed to spontaneous. They are 
often boring, and there is nothing so tiring as being 
bored. Anyone knows that thi^ is so and can 
observe it daily in a child that can no longer amuse 
itself and lolls or walks wearily along, but is at once 
all vivacity and excitement if a game or diversion 
is proposed to it. Dancing, on the other hand, is 
the reverse of boring. Girls can dance all night 
and still feel fresh to go on. This in itself is a proof 
that there is something peculiarly suitable in the 
exercise of dancing. One could wish, however, 



Dancing. 

for earlier closing hours in the matter of dances, 
and also for better ventilated rooms. Lately, 
more particularly in London, individual dancing 
has been taken up a good deal. It is an exercise 
that cannot be rivalled, for not only does it afford 
abundant exercise, but the movements are har- 
monious and graceful, and give a beauty that the 
various games are less efficient in obtaining for 
their devotees. 

Unfortunately, many of these forms of exercise, 
which are readily obtained in the country, are 
difficult or impossible to obtain in town. The 
advances that have been made in the physical 
development of women by games and exercise are 
largely nullified by the evil effects of town life upon 
health and, above all, upon exercise. One hears a 
great deal about the evils of overwork and various 
diets, but the chief evil of town life is this lack of 
exercise. Lack of exercise kills and makes sick 
infinitely more people than overwork does. 

Fortunately no town dwellers are robbed of the one 
supreme exercise, namely, walking. Walking is 
possible wherever one lives, and I would cordially 
recommend my readers, if they are unable to get 
games and riding, to make a point of taking a good 
walk every day. If they would always walk for at 
least an hour a day as an average, they would find 
the greatest benefit in health, and, if in health, they 
would find an unexpected addition of the cream of 
vitality, which is becoming almost a forgotten thing 
to town dwellers. Walking without any object 
may be boring, so the best thing is to get a friend to 
accompany one upon a walk or to acquire a habit 

79 



The Healthy Marriage. 

of duty to a favourite dog whose nature clearly 
demands daily exercise. Often the streets are 
slushy and disagreeable. London streets are, indeed, 
as uninviting at times to the walker as one could 
well imagine anything could be. But the believer 
in health will, nevertheless, sturdily pursue the daily 
quest and endeavour by every possible means to 
make the exercise interesting. If interesting it will 
not tire ; if dull, it will tire. This is important to 
remember, and interest in an exercise is as important 
as its amount and strenuousness. 

As to how fast one should walk is really only a 
personal matter. The brisk walk that makes the 
walker feel repaid by entering the house again with 
a good glow, a sharpened appetite and thirst, gives 
its own indications. These rewards cannot as a rule 
be obtained by a pace of under three miles an hour. 
In the country a swinging walk covers as a rule over 
four miles an hour, but that is a pace few women 
care to maintain. 

When walking at the pace of three miles an hour 
the respiratory action is said to be four times as 
great as when standing still. The heart beats more 
rapidly at first, but soon begins to beat more forcibly, 
the reserve of muscle action being brought into play. 
When this begins the peculiar feeling of ease and 
strength which is known as getting one's second 
wind, is felt. 

For games and more vigorous exercise special 
dress has to be worn, but for walking this is not 
necessary. A heavy skirt, of course, inhibits walk- 
ing and makes a woman tire of it soon. A hobble 
skirt only enables a woman to nibble her way along 

80 



High Heels. 

the ground and precludes anything like stepping out 
which produces a swinging rhythm of movement 
that is advantageous to health and well being. 
Low-heeled shoes are also better for walking than 
the high-heeled variety, though, even when the heel 
is so high that the bones of the arch of the foot 
are distorted in a way that makes an anatomist 
groan, it is surprising how well women walk. 

Habit enables the human frame to overcome 
surprising oddities. But the extreme high heel 
which pushes the heel of the foot several inches from 
the ground and puts the foot into the distorted 
position favoured by the aristocratic Chinese gives 
something of the stilt-like quality to the walk which 
distinguishes the unfortunate high-born dames of 
far Cathay. Exaggeration that leads to positive 
discomfort and disability is never artistic, for the 
suggestion of weakness destroys the sense of desira- 
bility or admiration that is a characteristic of art. 

High heels are also apt to make the feet ache, 
mainly because they stretch certain ligaments which 
are intended to maintain the arch of the foot. If 
this is their result the best thing to do is to have 
shoes with lower heels, and in the morning to practise 
lifting oneself up upon one's toes. This exercise 
does through the personal will what the high-heeled 
shoes do through the bootmaker. The consequence 
is that in the former case one gains strength and 
in the latter case one loses it and someone else 
gains it. Doing this exercise twenty to thirty times 
every morning will soon strengthen feet that are 
readily tired. 

If generally tired from exercise, there is nothing 

H.M. 8l 6 



The Healthy Marriage. 

so alluring as a hot bath. The warmth relaxes the 
muscles and causes the blood vessels to dilate owing 
to the same muscular relaxation. It promotes in 
fact a general relaxation and rest, which is very 
pleasant after exercise. But such a warm bath is 
only wisely indulged in if one is not going out again 
and is able to go to bed soon. It is only justifiable 
when one is determined to give oneself over to the 
delights of a kindly tiredness. If one has to go out 
again or take renewed exercise, the bath should 
be brief, cold or tepid, and be followed by a good 
rub down with a bath towel. This stimulates the 
muscles and circulation and prepares one for renewed 
vigour. 

Similarly alcohol should only be taken after 
exercise if one is prepared to yield to lassitude. If 
one has further things in the day to do alcohol is a 
decided mistake. It is a good fillip in small quanti- 
ties, but its effect is brief, and if one has any hard 
work to do it is useless to expect alcohol to do 
anything but hinder one. 

Such are the forms of exercise women may take 
when they are not pregnant. What changes and 
modifications should be made when they are 
carrying ? 

Firstly, obstetricians are well aware of one thing, 
namely, that if the womb is healthy, it is probably 
impossible to dislodge its fruit by any kind of jar or 
jolt. Only a violent and dangerous injury will do 
so. For this reason one is wont to advise healthy 
women, accustomed to abundant exercise, not to 
make much difference during pregnancy, until its 
later stages, when they cannot move so -freely. I 

82 






Exercise in Pregnancy. 

have known women in up-country Australia ride 
until the last three months of pregnancy, with 
absolute safety and the usual benefit. Such women 
are, of course, expert riders and by their skill avoid 
the jolting and jarring which are the chief elements 
of danger in horse-riding for pregnant women. 
Moreover, the Australian horses canter, they do not 
trot, and cantering is an easier motion. A notable 
example of activity during pregnancy was the case 
of Madame Mere, who bore Napoleon in her womb 
through the escapades and adventures of an arduous 
campaign. So also it is a well-known fact that at 
least three-quarters of the women of the world go 
about their ordinary occupations, such as. working 
in the fields, until the day of childbirth. 

Civilized women, one may say, are much too apt 
to make of pregnancy a partial invalidism. They 
succumb to the innumerable don'ts that pester our 
days of freedom and give rules by which intelligence 
is displaced by instruction. 

If healthy, then, pregnancy need make no differ- 
ence to exercise. Violent games such as hockey or 
tennis are best avoided, and to those in England 
it is best to add riding, but croquet, swimming, 
bicycling, walking, rowing, and so on, require no 
restriction. Even if unhealthy and liable to mis- 
carriages, a woman is more likely to keep in that 
stage of ill-health that affects the womb to mis- 
carriage by taking no exercise than by exercise she 
is likely to cause a miscarriage. Exercise by 
promoting a healthy womb is far more likely to 
prevent than to cause miscarriage. In the latter 
months of pregnancy exercise becomes restricted to 

83 6-2 



The Healthy Marriage. 

walking. But walking should not be given up. A 
woman in the later months of pregnancy cannot walk 
fast, nor should she attempt to do so. But walk she 
should until she is lightly tired, for the exercise will 
in every way be beneficial. It will make her sleep, 
it will give her a good appetite, and it promotes the 
action of the bowels at a time when they are apt to 
get constipated. If she is shy of showing herself 
abroad she can walk out in the evening with her 
husband or a friend. Some women like to go to the 
country at this time. They could not do better, for 
the country is healthier and quieter than the town. 

If the weather is wet, it is still not an indication 
against Balking. Women are too frightened of the 
rain and are sometimes kept in a whole day by it. 
It is true that no wise lady will expose fine feathers 
or furs to a drenching. But rain, unless very heavy, 
is no reason for staying indoors. Provided one has 
on clothes that will not spoil and cjianges wet boots, 
stockings, etc., when one comes home, only good 
results from a walk in the rain. The smell of the 
earth in the country is peculiarly delicious, the air 
is washed and refreshed, and the beat or caress of 
the rain upon the face is a sensation of charm that is 
too seldom realized. 

Lastly, there is the artificial exercise of massage. 
When a woman is confined to her bed or couch and 
is unable to take exercise, then massage from a 
proper masseuse is excellent. Unskilled people by 
their pommelling and prodding are wont to do as 
much harm as good. The various movements of 
effleurage, petrissage and tapotement require trained 
hands. Their result is undoubtedly good. Muscles 

84 



The Value of Stillness. 

keep their tone, appetite is preserved, and sleep 
promoted. Many of the benefits of exercise are 
thus effected by massage, but only in cases where 
exercise is not possible should it be employed. In 
bed also, when an invalid gets restless and turns this 
way and that, massage is excellent. In such cases 
when a skilled masseuse is not at hand, rubbing the 
limbs towards the heart will often take away the 
irritability. 

Before I leave the subject of exercise, I must warn 
my readers against the excessive exercise that is 
really the product of an uncontrolled restlessness. 
Exercise is essential to the healthiest quality of life, 
but the capacity to be still is also an essential and a 
sign of the healthiest life. People who are never 
really at rest, whose fingers are twitching or " rolling 
pills " or who keep fidgeting and shifting their 
positions, are not thoroughly healthy people. Free 
movement is admirable, but as admirable is the 
capacity of complete stillness. But this twitching 
and restlessness belong better to the chapter upon 
" nerves." Here I would only recommend to my 
readers to read Louis Stevenson's charming essay, 
" An Apology for Idlers." 

Having the capacity of stillness, the question of 
posture gains importance. It is as well for a woman 
to think upon posture and to cast occasionally a 
glance that is genuinely critical into the glass. A 
bad posture does not look well, it looks ugly, and 
women have no right to allow themselves to appear 
ungainly. But a bad posture is also unhealthy, for 
it cramps the lungs by Rowing of the shoulders 
and weakens and relaxes the abdominal muscles. 

85 



The Healthy Marriage. 

Amongst other things rupture is undoubtedly 
favoured by bad posture. 

The right posture is when, without the heels 
leaving the ground, the body is held at its full 
height, the shoulders are thrown back so that the 
lungs have full play, and the stomach is flat and not 
protruded. When sitting down the relation of the 
head, shoulders, chest, and abdomen should be the 
same as when standing. The right posture should 
constantly be borne in mind, and by constantly 
correcting the tendency to lapse into the position of 
fatigue with drooped shoulders, head sunk forward, 
chest in, stomach out and arms bent at the elbow, 
eventually a habit of the alert and ready postiTre 
will be acquired. The matter of posture is of real 
importance. Fortunately most women know this, 
and know it better than men. It was, indeed, a 
painful sight to watch the posture of much of the city 
youth before the war. Both youths and men seemed 
to have no bodily pride at all. Their flames 
consequently became painful to look upon, they had 
such round shoulders, flat chests and general floppy 
and relaxed appearance. But as yet most of the 
women of the city still preserve the pride of carriage 
and posture, and when one comes west or goes into 
the country one sees on all sides English women who 
hold themselves beautifully. 



86 



CHAPTER VI. 
Food and Drink. 

" The more man approaches the elements of nature, the 
more the principles of his science fade away." Bernardin 
de Saint-Pierre. 

As in the matter of exercise, so in the matter of 
food and drink, a distinction must be made between 
country and town dwellers. Women who live in the 
country and who, therefore, take exercise, enjoy 
fresh air, and have at their disposal a direct supply 
of fresh food, need not trouble much about diet. 

But for those that live in towns the subject of diet 
is not so simple. Firstly, the appetite is often want- 
ing. There are various things in town life that 
dispose to a lack of appetite. The first and foremost 
reason is lack of proper exercise. After an enjoyable 
walk the appetite is always good. A second common 
reason is a lack of really satisfactory occupation. 
Satisfactory and enjoyable occupation is a note- 
worthy condition of appetite as any woman can 
observe in herself. It implies the will to continue 
and to eat well, because the food will be turned into 
satisfactory work. Doctors not infrequently use the 
term a " vicious circle," but they do not use the term 
a " good circle." Yet since satisfactory occupation 
leads to good appetite, and a satisfied appetite leads 
to a renewal of desire for satisfactory occupation, 
this recurring sequence may be well termed a 

37 



The Healthy Marriage. 

" good circle." Pleasing occupation and enjoyable 
exercise are the two mainstays of good appetite, and 
a good appetite itself is the best support of a good 
digestion and the best defence against indigestion. 
Therefore if a woman suffers from lack of appetite 
she is well-advised to employ herself so as to stir all 
her faculties into a healthy demand for food, and to 
make a point of taking brisk walks. Sometimes an 
enjoyable dance has a wonderful effect in restoring a 
lost appetite. 

Another common cause of loss of appetite is an 
ill-ventilated room, and especially an ill-ventilated 
bedroom. Constipation is also a common cause of 
loss of appetite and usually brings a headache at the 
same time. A decaying tooth in the mouth is also 
a not uncommon and unsuspected cause of loss of 
appetite. 

Further causes, apart from actual illness, are bad 
cooking, and in towns staleness, dirtiness, or other 
defect of food. Into the question of cooking I 
cannot well enter, but I would here mention a general 
and very useful rule to remember in cooking, namely, 
that well-cooked vegetables and underdone meat are 
more digestible than under-cooked vegetables and 
fully-cooked meat. Spiciness in food is not neces- 
sary to appetite. A good appetite will enjoy plainly 
cooked food ; for instance, it was notable how good 
the rough fare tasted which we had in the South 
African War. Tasteful serving and cleanliness are 
far more necessary to the preservation of appetite 
than is spiciness or fancy cooking. 

But as regards the food supplied in towns, a wife, 
who is a good housekeeper, has to be cautious and 

88 



Food in Towns. 

to have some knowledge of the difficulties she is 
likely to meet. Some of these and the way to meet 
them I shall now detail. 

Food is exhibited in the windows of shops and 
therefore exposed to dust and dirt. As a rule this 
does not matter much, but sometimes it matters a 
great deal. On windy days, when the roads are dry, 
one often sees eddies of dust composed of the refuse 
of the streets and of traffic and of disintegrated 
paper, vegetables, etc. This whirls into the air near 
by butchers', fishmongers', and greengrocers' shops 
and gets powdered upon the food offered for sale. 
In some shops the food is protected from the dust 
of the road, but in most it is fully exposed, and not 
all the glistening marble slabs, dripping water, and 
gleaming ice prevent the food from getting dirty, 
though to the naked eye it may not look so. Upon 
windy days, then, a wife should be particularly 
careful that all food after it has come from the shop 
should be washed with extra care under the running 
tap. It is still better to buy food that has not been 
exposed for sale and is in its original wrappers, 
provided it can first be inspected. When at home 
the food should be carefully covered, especially when 
the room, in which or near which it is, is being dusted. 
The precautions against flies, cockroaches, etc., I 
need not mention. An ice-chest is the best house- 
hold store for food and is invaluable in the summer 
months. 

Fresh meat and fish are better than meat and fish 
from cold storage, especially if this has been pro- 
longed, but butchers and fishmongers, when asked, 
do not always reply with unassailable veracity, A 



The Healthy Marriage. 

worse way by which shopkeepers sometimes preserve 
meat and fish is by the use of chemical preservatives, 
such as borax or benzoic acid, and serious loss of 
appetite and sickly feelings may result in those that 
consume such food. Sanitary inspectors are as strict 
as they can be in these matters, but they do not 
always detect food adulteration, and the only test 
an unfortunate consumer has is usually the sickliness, 
loss of appetite and aversion to food these adultera- 
tions produce. It is well, however, to remember 
them, in case food from one particular tradesman 
seems to be unsatisfactory, although it is not easy 
to say why. For like reasons oysters and other 
shell-fish are safer when bought whole than shelled 
or opened. 

Poultry is sometimes kept in cold storage for over 
a year and greatly deteriorates. A wife can, how- 
ever, safely buy poultry that has not been in cold 
storage more than three or four months. Complete 
removal of the blood is essential to good chicken 
meat. Sometimes one sees discoloration of the 
neck, and this means bad bleeding and flesh that 
soon becomes stale and flabby. 

Eggs laid under clean conditions may be kept in 
cold storage for a month or even six weeks and still 
be regarded as fresh. If kept longer they show a 
change of flavour. A new-laid egg should not be 
older than three days. As regards canned food, one 
has, as a rule, to take one's chance. It is no use 
advising a thoroughly reliable brand, unless one can 
actually name one, and investigation into the matter 
does not give one confidence to do so. 

It can safely be declared that all prepared meat 
90 



Milk, Alcohol. 

juices are inferior to home-made meat juice, that 
meat powders such as somatose should not be taken 
by healthy people who can eat fresh meat, and that 
all predigested and prepared foods should only be 
used under the direction of a medical man. 

The supply of a guaranteed pure milk in English 
towns is at present so vexed a question amongst 
experts that we consumers have to be satisfied with 
what we get. 

The adulterations of various forms of food are so 
multiple and often so ingenious although not 
always definitely harmful that the wisdom of as 
direct a supply of food as possible is obvious. In 
the country this is not hard to get, in town it is well- 
nigh impossible. This is another reason of the 
advantage of the country for a woman at periods, 
when health and good food are particularly 
important to her, such as the periods of pregnancy 
and suckling. 

The question of alcoholic drinks, though not so 
vexed as previously, is one not free from prejudices 
and animosity, prejudices which have coloured 
experiments and facts brought against that which 
still has so excellent a repute as to lead to a phrase 
like " the wine of life." 

And truly the phrase and the praise in it is 
merited by the rare and genuine vintages one some- 
times has the good fortune to taste, but unfortu- 
nately, since the commercial side of business has 
overshadowed the aesthetic side, wines have become 
doctored, loaded, treated, and scientifically aided to 
such an extent that it is very difficult to be sure of 
securing a sound and safe wine. This deterioration, 



The Healthy Marriage. 

not of wine so much as of the character of the men 
who supply wine, has complicated the question of the 
healthiness of wine drinking not a little, just as the 
methods of food supply in towns has complicated the 
question of food. Indeed, I have a shrewd suspicion 
sometimes that one drinks the man more than the 
wine, and if he be of good character and refined taste 
one shares these qualities in drinking his wine, 
whereas, if he depreciate ever so little, the good 
wine depreciates in like proportion, and if he be a 
thorough rogue then one has to look to oneself that 
one is not poisoned. 

But the juice of the grape, purely prepared and 
guided into wine with taste and art, has earned the 
praise of mankind so unstintedly through the ages 
that it seems absurd for this age to profess to find 
out that it is the chief poison of mankind. 

Laboratory and scientific experiments show that 
a little alcohol stimulates, but more wearies and 
depresses, and in so far as scientific experiments 
express a human truth, this is the experience of man- 
kind. But science in a matter like this is too crude 
to decide. It is well known to all what idiosyncrasy 
people show to alcohol and to different forms of 
alcohol. A little alcohol will turn one's head, 
whereas a not too distant ancestor of that person 
took his three bottles of port a day with the utmost 
satisfaction and lived healthily to his last days. 
One person can drink beer, but is upset by wine, 
another enjoys whisky, but cannot touch porter, a 
third likes white wine, but is upset by red. These 
personal idiosyncrasies show how difficult it is for 
science to lay down rules about the drinking of 

92 



The Social Quality of Alcohol. 

alcohol. Moreover, there is the quality that wine 
gives to life which is altogether beyond the analysis 
of science. In the words of Matthew Arnold, a man 
of singular balance and culture, " Wine used in 
moderation seems to add to the agreeableness of life 
for adults at any rate and whatever adds to the 
agreeableness of life adds to its resources and 
powers." 

This saying of Matthew Arnold really sums up the 
true position of wine and beer drinks that depend 
upon their aroma and the subtle pleasure they instil 
and not upon the alcohol they contain. Those who 
wish to get alcoholic effects take either quarts of 
strong beer, or take gin, whisky, rum, or brandy. It 
is these spirits, which give a crude and rapid effect, 
that above all have cast an ugly aspersion upon the 
whole subject of alcohol, and brought by their crude 
rudeness the delicate fragrance of the grape into 
disgrace. 

I would advise women then, if they drink alcohol 
at all, to only take it at mealtimes, when in modera- 
tion it may add to the agreeableness of life. I 
would advise them most strongly, only to make 
wine or the lighter beers a social drink, and never 
a restorative or stimulating drink. The whole folly 
and tragedy of alcohol drinking springs from the 
word stimulant, and the idea that alcohol is a good 
pick-me-up. Alcohol should never be taken for 
these reasons, unless a doctor expressly orders it for 
the purpose. The most pernicious results follow 
upon this wrongful use of alcohol as a stimulant, 
especially in hot countries, and I have seen English 
and American women abroad indulge in those 

93 



The Healthy Marriage. 

coarse attacks upon the palate which are known as 
cocktails, or stinging whiskies and tansan, with the 
result that their complexions were blotched and 
spoilt, and in many cases they became slaves to the 
habit, and objects of pity and disgust to healthy 
mankind. Indeed, it is such cases, which, coming 
more frequently before medical men than other men, 
give the former such a wholesome horror of ordering 
alcohol in any form to English or American women. 
The women of the Continent are far more exempt 
from this disgraceful fall from all decency than 
are the women of our land, and with a large experi- 
ence of western Europe, I dare affirm that any 
three lands together probably do not provide as 
many cases of women with the drink habit as the 
British Isles offer. 

And one reason I believe, is, that on the Continent 
(as in past ages) the essentially social character of 
alcohol is recognized. If people drink at all, they 
drink at mealtimes when their friends are present, 
or in public at cafes. There is no secret drinking, 
and none of this pernicious resort to wine or spirits, 
because " I am a little tired ; the shops were so 
crowded this afternoon." That is the root of the 
evil of drinking amongst women. 

I repeat then, that if women drink at all, they 
should only drink when at table with their husbands 
or friends, and never at any other time. That rule 
alone will save them from all danger of forming a 
perilous habit. 

As regards what they should drink, a wholesome 
and well-proven beverage is beer. Beer from a cask 
is better than bottled beer which is chemically 

94 



Wine versus Spirits. 

treated to give it a bright, attractive appearance. 
The lighter beers and lager obtained abroad have the 
advantage of containing much less alcohol than our 
beer, and it is a great pity that such light brews 
cannot be obtained in England. Imported bottled 
beer, however, has not this advantage. 

Wine, and especially safe wine, is, of course, very 
expensive in England owing to the general principle 
of taxing quality. But wine is pre-eminently the 
social drink. The natural wines, clarets, burgundy, 
and hocks, to which no artificial alcohol has been 
added, are the most commendable for the daily table. 
Fortified wines are those to which alcohol has been 
added. Port, sherry, madeira, marsala, are examples 
of such wines. Champagne is usually fortified. 

I never personally recommend spirits to women. 
Spirits are a far cruder form of alcoholic drink than 
wine. It is generally recognized that there is some- 
thing vulgar about certain spirits, such as rum and 
gin. Even brandy is beginning to fall under this 
popular feeling. I wish whisky would too, certainly 
as regards the women. For spirits are alcohol with- 
out any of the naturalness and refinement of wine or 
even beer. They are essentially the coarse form of 
alcohol drinking. When a sudden hard and quick 
result is wanted, such as restoring a woman from a 
faint, they are permissible, but I would advise their 
avoidance on all other occasions, unless expressly 
ordered by a medical man. 

Women sometimes ask : " Should they take a 
little wine when they are unwell ? " My answer is 
M No, there is no need or advantage in doing so." 
At the same time, if they are accustomed to taking 

95 



The Healthy Marriage. 

wine or beer at table, there is no reason for leaving it 
off. The condition of being unwell should make no 
difference to a woman. 

Women also ask : " Should they take alcohol in 
any form when they are carrying ? " They think 
that during pregnancy they are weaker than at other 
times-, and need building up, and that some sort of 
alcohol will do this for them. But pregnancy is not 
a state of disease or invalidism. Only civilization 
may make it so. The answer, therefore, is that, 
unless a woman feels really ill owing to pregnancy, 
she should not alter her habits because of it. On 
the other hand, if she feels really ill and weak, she 
certainly should not try and cure herself with alcohol, 
but should consult her doctor. 

But it may be asked : " Are married people 
better without alcohol ? " The question is a very 
pertinent one, a very important one. 

Professor Forel, an acute thinker and a doctor of 
enormous experience in nervous diseases and in- 
sanity, says that there is a definite form of false 
heredity due to alcohol, which he calls blastophoria. 
The germ cells, that is to say, the ova or eggs of the 
female and the seed of the male, are naturally 
healthy. But if, at the time of the conjunction of 
these cells in conception, either mate is under the 
influence of alcohol, then his or her germ cell becomes 
deteriorated, and the false heredity is started. 
In other words, if at the time of conception of a 
child either parent has alcohol flowing in the blood, 
not only the child itself, but the child's children 
are conceived in degeneracy. Not only are the 
grosser mental diseases, such as idiocy, epilepsy 



Alcohol and Conception. 

and feeble mindedness, so engendered and per- 
petuated, but Professor Forel says, the greater 
amount of the nervous debility, the neurasthenia, 
irritability, depression, indolence, incapacity, etc., 
of which there is so much evidence at the present day, 
is due to this blastophoria. In addition to his own 
experience, the professor quotes such striking, 
evidence as that of M. Bezzola. Bezzola took the 
cases of 9,000 idiots reported in the Swiss census of 
1900 A.D. He found there were two maximal periods 
for the conception of these idiots, namely carnival 
and vintage, the two periods of the year when there 
was the greatest chance of the parents of the idiots 
being alcohol-soaked. 

I remember, when I first read Professor Forel's 
works, being gravely perturbed by this prospect of 
the appalling minor havoc, of which alcohol might 
be guilty. Interested in the matter, I attended 
Professor Kraepelin's lectures at Munich University. 
Professor Kraepelin has a Continental reputation 
that surpasses even Professor Forel's. His know- 
ledge of nervous diseases is unsurpassed, and 
in Munich, where lakes of beer are consumed 
annually, he has the most typical field in the world 
for studying the effects of alcohol. And appalled 
as I was. by Professor Forel's grave indictment of 
alcohol and indication of how it acted, I was no less 
appalled by Professor Kraepelin's earnest detesta- 
tion of alcohol as being, even in small quantities, 
the greatest enemy of man. Only one glass of beer 
would Professor Kraepelin permit a man daily, and 
even that one glass he regarded as the beginning, of 
unwisdom. These two Professors, then, the two 

H.H. 97 7 



The Healthy Marriage. 

greatest authorities upon the question in the world, 
unsparingly condemn alcohol, and state that parents, 
in taking alcohol at the period when they are con- 
ceiving their children, plant in their children future 
nervousness, indecision, unhappiness, perversions, 
if not the graver diseases of epilepsy and mental 
weakness or idiocy. Married people who expect to 
become parents, apart altogether from any effect 
the alcohol has upon them, whether for good or evil, 
may, by taking alcohol and having it in their blood 
at the time of intercourse, inflict upon their children 
and their children's children irreparable harm. 
The question of taking alcohol, therefore, especially 
in the evening, is a very grave one. 

If, therefore, I am seriously questioned upon 
this matter, I am accustomed first to point out to 
the enquirer the number of people and nations who 
take alcohol and yet are healthy and have healthy 
children. I speak also of the praise good wine has 
received through the ages by races and men, who 
have earned the high admiration of others. But 
I then go on to point out the undoubted increase 
of nervous constitutions of all kinds and the 
tendency to get ill or to be off colour, and for even 
young people to get tired. I tell my enquirer of 
Professors Forel and Kraepelin, and, since their 
experience and knowledge of the matter is far 
greater than mine or that of any English doctor, 
I advise my questioner to ponder upon what they 
have said with great seriousness. 

For my own part, however, I am inclined to agree 
with Matthew Arnold rather than with the learned, 
professors, 

98 



CHAPTER VII. 
Fresh Air and Ventilation. 

" I believe in the forest, in the meadow and in the night 
in which the corn grows." Thorean. 

IT has been calculated that about one-third of 
the blood is always in the lungs, and that the whole 
body of the blood courses through the lungs some 
8,000 times in the twenty-four hours. Such figures 
confirm what everyone by vital experience knows, 
namely, the imperative need the body has of air. 
They also impress one with the need of the air being 
fresh and healthy, for each time the blood enters 
the lungs it is separated from the air in the lungs by 
only the thinnest membrane. Through this mem- 
brane, which constitutes the wall of the air cells of 
the lungs and lies in intimate union with the walls 
of the innumerable little blood vessels, oxygen 
passes into the blood and carbonic acid gas passes 
out of it. It is necessary, then, that the oxygen 
passing in should be fresh and the carbonic acid gas 
passing out should pass away and not be rebreathed. 

A woman, cannot, of course, fulfil such conditions 
better than in the open air. There she has a store 
of fresh oxygen that is limitless, and the carbonic 
acid gas of the respiration passes out into an equally 
limitless space. 

By the wonderful provisions of nature, the open 
99 7-a 



The Healthy Marriage. 

atmosphere is itself a constant bath and refresher 
of the air. Were it not so the air, respired by the 
myriad living creatures that inhabit the globe, would 
soon become stale. But it does not do so. First of 
all the air is frequently washed by the showers of 
rain, which cleanse it of dust, microbes and organic 
matter, with which it is in periods of drought over- 
burdened. The rain, for which the British Isles has 
a somewhat undeserved reputation, keeps the air 
very fresh and clean, and at least mitigates, if it 
does not allay, the extra burden of dust, dirt and 
smoke with which our manufacturing towns sur- 
charge it. The freshness of town air after rain is 
well known to all, and even in the country, when 
the weather is dry and dusty, the same refreshing 
effects are felt and the air actually becomes clearer, 
and one can see a greater distance owing to the air 
being cleaned. Thus, in spite of the damp under 
foot, there are few healthier or more pleasant times 
for a walk than after a good shower of rain, and this 
is particularly the case for the inhabitants of large 
manufacturing towns or towns with a great deal of 
traffic and consequent dirt ir^ the streets. 

Not only is the air washed by rain, but, wherever 
green foliage is growing and there is sunlight, it is 
renewed. The air is composed of 21 parts of 
oxygen, 78 parts of nitrogen and one part of argon 
in 100 parts. In addition, there are traces of 
organic matter and of other gases, and of these 
gases carbonic acid gas is the most important. It 
only occurs in the air in ^comparatively small quan- 
tities, namely, about three parts in ten thousand, 
-but so vast is the ocean of air, t&is really is a con- 

100 






The Ventilation of Towns. 

siderable amount. The carbonic acid gas is given 
off by the expiration of living creatures and also 
by combustion. Where there are many human 
beings living close together and there are also many 
fires and furnaces, there the amount of carbonic 
acid gas in the air is notably increased ; conse- 
quently, such air as London air is not only dirty, 
but it tends to be foul. The provision of nature 
against its foulness is by renewing the oxygen in it 
by foliage and by means of winds. The greenstuff 
of the country, the grass, and especially in summer 
the green foliage of the trees under the action of 
sunlight take up and keep the carbon of the car- 
bonic acid gas (CO 2 ) and let the oxygen free. They 
are, in fact, the factories of fresh oxygen. Con- 
sequently, green fields and forests are essential to 
the renewal of the air, and consequently also, 
country air besides being clearer is also purer than 
town air. 

The country sends into the town daily fresh 
supplies of vegetables, milk and other produce. 
Through the action of the winds it als^o sends into 
the towns great draughts of fresh air. This air is 
good to breathe, and town-dwellers often turn their 
faces to enjoy its freshness when a fair wind is 
blowing through the town. The winds also travel 
from great distances, and with their action air that 
gets less refreshment in the more barren northern 
parts of the hemisphere are replaced by air that car- 
ries with it the fresh oxygen that has been manu- 
factured in the vast and luxuriant forests of the 
tropics. The chief principle by which the action of 
the winds is brought about is that hot air rises and 

101 



The Healthy Marriage. 

cold air pours in to take its place. The cold air of 
the north pours down to the tropics to take the 
place of the hot air with its renewed oxygen, which 
rises from the vast forests. This air rises into the 
upper atmosphere, and, getting colder and colder, 
eventually slides down from above to take the place 
of the northern air that is pouring towards the 
tropics. In this way a constant circulation of fresh 
air is brought about throughout the whole world. 
In this way the whole world is thoroughly and 
efficiently ventilated. 

The sun is the power which makes the greenstuff 
renew the oxygen. It does far more than this in 
keeping the air clean. With the help of oxygen it 
oxidises and so destroys putrescent organic matter. 
This organic matter floats about in the air, takes up 
the oxygen and gives off carbonic acid gas. It 
does, in fact, what animals do by respiration, only 
with animals the process is continually repeated, 
with putrescent organic matter, when it has taken 
up enough oxygen, the process comes to an end. A 
little of this matter is always present in the air, but 
in any quantity it is always unhealthy. It is most 
abundant in large towns and also where there are 
extensive marshes, where rotting vegetable matter is 
abundant. It is least abundant over the sea or 
in the neighbourhood of snow-clad mountains. The 
air of the upper Alps and of the sea have great purity 
and healthiness in this respect compared to other 
air. The alpine and sea air also have an exceptional 
freedom from microbes, which exist in the greatest 
numbers in the close alley ways and courts of large 
cities. The sun again is the enemy and destroyer of 

102 



The Value of the Parks. 

these microbes in the air, and its purifying effects 
are important and are wanting where the sun rarely 
or never enters. 

My readers winnow see why it is that country"air 
is found by them to be more refreshing and delightful 
than town air, and why, if they wish to keep in good 
health, they will seek the country air when they 
have opportunity, and in towns will go into the parks. 
There is no time when they will find more pleasure 
in a walk than when recent rain has washed the air, 
the sun is shining and a brisk breeze is blowing that 
is not strong enough to be a nuisance in blowing 
about hats and skirts. At such times by putting up 
their faces to the wind and taking deep breaths into 
the lungs, they will taste and inhale all the purity of 
the country. It is, indeed, a habit to be commended 
for women who live in towns to seek the parks as 
frequently as possible and to breathe the fresh air 
deeply so as to displace and renew the air that lies 
stagnant in the deeper air cells of the lungs. The 
fresh air and sunlight will give them a zest, health, 
and enjoyment that cannot be got from the streets, 
from the interiors of shops or the attractions of the 
theatre. 

The description that has been given of the ventila- 
tion of the world will also explain to readers the 
principles of ventilation in their own homes. They 
live in houses, and houses, being obstructions to the 
wind and defences from the weather, are shut away 
from the automatic beneficence of nature. Conse- 
quently their owners have to use their minds to 
apply the ventilation to their houses which nature 
supplies to the great world without. 

103 



The Healthy Marriage; 

Firstly, for a room to be healthy, it must be sd 
situated that it gets sunlight. Rooms that have 
no sunlight not only lose the purifying effects of the 
rays, but also are apt to be depressing to their 
inhabitants. A sunny breakfast-room is the best 
send-off to the day ; and it may here be mentioned 
that a sunny bedroom is a great advantage to a 
mother, not only because it is more cheerful during 
her lying-in period, but also because it is in a more 
healthy condition than a sunless room. If a reader 
wants to have proof of the value of sun in a room to 
the life in it, let her put two pots of flowers or 
greenstuff, one in a sunny room and one in a sunless 
room and note the difference. 

Secondly, the windows of the house must often be 
thrown open. The windows of a sitting-room should 
be opened widely in the morning by the servants 
before it is used, and in warm weather certainly they 
should be partly opened during the day. If the 
weather is cold they should be opened several times 
during the day, so as to let in fresh air. Once an 
hour is sufficient and, if the room is large, this 
frequency is not needed, especially if the sashes are 
loose and cold air can be felt entering through the 
cracks. The windows in the halls and passages 
should always be kept a little open, for the warm air 
of the living-rooms passes up the chimney or out 
through the top of the window, and the air from the 
hall or the passages passes through the door or its 
cracks into the living-room to take its place. It 
is important, therefore, that this air should be fresh. 
In residential hotels or large flats this is particularly 
necessary, for a lot of foul and stagnant air is apt to 

104 



The Ventilation of Rooms. 

collect in the passages or in enclosed courts, unless 
they are well aired, and then this foul air will enter 
the living-rooms, even though the window is open, 
for it will enter through the door and pass out 
through the window. 

The window of a lavatory should always be left 
open day and night. 

The rules that apply to living-rooms by day, apply 
still more to bedrooms. A bedroom window should 
always be open a little at the top and bottom. The 
hot air, in accordance with the principle that hot 
air is lighter than cold, rises to the ceiling (a fact 
which may be tested in a warm room by standing on 
a chair or table and feeling the air near the ceiling) 
and passes out through the top crack of the window, 
and the cold, fresh air enters below. It is rarely 
in my experience never too cold in the south of 
England at least for the bedroom window always to 
be open to this extent. People are, however, getting 
more and more to love plenty of air in their houses, 
and many of them are quite unable to sit or sleep 
with comfort in a room with the windows closed. 

Other people, it is true, manage to live long lives 
and healthy ones in spite of favouring the closed 
window. They even like stuffy rooms. Yet, as I 
have said, they keep well, and when one thinks of 
the number of wild animals, such as rabbits or sand- 
martins, that crowd down into stuffy burrows or 
runs deep into the earth, one sees that fresh air has 
not the invariable sanction of nature. I only say 
this because people are apt to run from one extreme 
to the other, and fresh air tends to become a fetish. 
I know several houses, where the rooms are often 

105 



The Healthy Marriage. 

bitterly cold owing to the widely opened windows in 
winter, and to the inrush of air, with which no fire 
could successfully contend. Still, if one is to have a 
fetish at all, the fresh air fetish is certainly one with 
great advantages. 

For, if there is not fresh air, there are often grave 
results. It is difficult, I admit, to account for the 
sound health of some old people, who have at home 
always sat in small unventilated rooms. But most 
of such people have spent their days at least in the 
open in the country. For women who live in towns 
the importance of fresh air in their houses is unques- 
tioned. Every doctor comes across women who are 
languid, blase, and a little pale, with hints of white 
about their lips, instead of the fresh red, who have 
little or no appetite, and who wake up in the morning 
with headaches or furred tongues. They are apt to 
get upset easily, get sore throats, may sleep heavily, 
but can scarcely drag their heavy limbs out of bed. 
These women are suffering from a want of fresh 
air, and probably sleep with the windows of their 
bedrooms tightly closed. In extreme cases such 
indisposition is probably due to further fouling 
of the air than follows merely from closed windows. 

When the sore throats become frequent, when the 
anaemia is marked and headache constant, when the 
appetite is altogether lost and lassitude always 
present in spite of the observation of the ordinary 
rules of health, then the drains should be held 
suspect. Foul sewage gas is 'warm and rises into 
bedrooms and living-rooms. The sanitary inspector 
should, therefore, be sent for and the drains and 
traps be inspected. Another thing that should be 

106 



Gas Poisoning. . 

tested is the gas. One of the most obscure cases of 
acute anaemia I ever saw was due to gas. A young 
girl became so anaemic as to get delirious and to be 
at death's door. Gas was suspected, but there was 
no smell whatsoever of gas. Eventually the floor 
of her bedroom was pulled up over the gas pipe and 
a small leak was detected. This leak nearly led to 
the girl's death. 

In this case we could not smell the escaping gas, 
but as a rule there is no better test than the nose as 
to the state of the air in a room. It is rather 
amusing to read the learned treatises upon what is 
the precise cause and measure of the stuffiness in an 
inhabited room. At one time the scientists held 
that the culprit was the carbonic acid gas, when 
existing in over a definite quantity, and they set 
about finding out how much carbonic acid gas each 
individual and gas jet gave off, and estimating any 
that might be given off by putrescent organic matter 
present. But further experiments showed that, 
though carbonic acid gas is not healthy above a 
certain quantity, yet it was not this gas that caused 
the unpleasant effects of a stuffy room. Then they 
bethought them that it must be due to the organic 
matter in the room, especially that which is given 
off by human beings. But with further investiga- 
tion it was found that only very dirty people gave 
off organic matter that befouled the air. Clean 
people gave no offence. Then it was held that 
possibly the absence of ozone might be part of the 
defect, but further work made it appear very doubt- 
ful as to whether ozone existed at all in the 
atmosphere, and whether the ozone that is largely 

107 



The Healthy Marriage. 

advertised by watering places was not in reality a 
myth. Then the effect of heat and moisture were 
tested, and it was found that a hot room, and 
especially a hot and very moist air was deleterious. 
Finally, science, as it often does, after having made a 
long detour, came back to confirm ordinary expe- 
rience, namely, that the nose is the best test of a 
stuffy room, but what exactly was the actual cause 
of the stuffiness science could not definitely say. 

The test, therefore, of a stuffy room is its smell, 
that faint musty smell, which is known to us all. 
It is not quickly detected by the people who are 
sitting in the room, but anyone who comes into it 
will notice it, and according to his or her relations 
to the inmates will say or think, " How stuffy 
it is in here ! " The effect is greatly magnified 
in kitchens or other places, where potato peelings, 
cabbage or other organic matter may be decaying. 

Everyone, too, knows the effect of such a stuffy 
room. Everyone has experienced a well-filled draw- 
ing room on a winter's evening, often with gas as a 
light, with the windows closed and heavily curtained. 
The air becomes stuffy and with the evil character- 
istics of marked heat and moisture. How one feels 
heavier and heavier, and begins to yawn and get 
a headache and feel too weary to do anything ! 
Eventually one may drag oneself up to bed and fall at 
once into a heavy sleep and awake, especially if the 
bedroom windows have been closed, tired and with 
a headache, and indifferent to the day's work and 
occupation. Such evenings are due to ill-ventilated 
rooms, and though rarer than they used to be, are 
still too common. 

108 



Draughts. 

The remedy for a stuffy room, of course, is to open 
the window and let in the cool fresh air. I do not 
recommend my Dreaders to rely on ventilators, 
especially ventilators that they- do not understand. 
Sometimes ventilators get blocked up, sometimes 
servants block them up as they block up chimneys 
because the air brings in dirt, sometimes they fail to 
work, and often they are inefficient. Let the archi- 
tect put them in the house by all means, but let the 
lady of the house learn to open the windows. Let 
her not be too afraid of draughts. A draught blow- 
ing directly on the bare neck or shoulder of a 
rheumatic person will often bring on rheumatism, 
and a draught is generally unpleasant. But the 
unpleasant draught is usually from a crack in the 
window, or under the door, which concentrates a 
current of air. If the window is opened more than 
a crack the inrushing or outrushing air is in a 
sufficiently large quantity to avoid a concentrated 
and as it were aimed draught. A widely-opened 
window produces no draught, but it lets in a breeze, 
which blows in everywhere and is not a small 
limited current like a draught. Big draughts, if one 
so names the inrush of air through an open window, 
are probably never the causes of colds, whereas 
impure air, which irritates and weakens the mucous 
membrane of the nose, certainly do cause and render 
people liable to severe colds in the head. 

Fresh air then, as regards the house, sums itself up 
in the necessity of opened windows. Lavatory 
windows should always be open. Bedroom windows 
should be widely open by day, and certainly always 
a little open top and bottom at night. Sitting-room 

109 



The Healthy Marriage. 

windows should be opened wide in the early morning, 
and, when the weather is suitable, should be kept 
open. If the weather is colder, the windows of an 
occupied room should be opened occasionally during 
the day, preferably every hour. The windows of 
halls and passages should always be a little or wide 
open. The windows of the kitchen and offices 
should be widely opened, if possible, at night. 
These rules apply to all periods of life and are 
especially to be observed by a woman who is carry- 
ing. The rules of ventilation for the lying-in room 
are not different, but they will be again mentioned 
under that heading. The chief pollution of the air 
that is to be feared by a lying-in woman is that 
from drains, for such air can, it has been proved, 
be the cause of serious lying-in or puerperal fever. 

Finally, it may be said that in view of the greater 
purity of country air, this is an additional reason 
the others being the advantages of quiet and exercise 
for a woman spending the period of carrying in the 
country. The advantages of country air and 
exercise cannot be too strongly emphasised. They 
are proved amongst all classes, both high and low, 
for gardeners, fishermen, and agriculturists, are 
notoriously the healthiest labourers, just as farmers 
and country clergymen are the healthiest and 
longest-lived of the better classes. 



no 



CHAPTER VIII. 
Warming and Lighting. 

" What the day is we Cimmerians hardly know. In our 
eternal mist and fog it is the same thing to us whether it be 
day or night, for how much time can we really enjoy in the 
open air ? " Goethe. 

IT has been calculated that some 30,000,000 a 
year would be saved if only England were in a 
warmer latitude, and the problem of the best way of 
keeping warm and of warming a house has not yet 
been solved. 

The English method of warming a room, namely 
by a fire, is one that often astonishes foreigners, who 
expect a method of warming to have warmth as its 
prime object. They find that there is heat near the 
fire, but at a little distance the air and the objects 
are quite cold. The heat thrown out by a fire 
rapidly diminishes, at three feet distance the heat 
received being one-ninth of the heat received at one 
foot of distance. A fire also wastes a great deal of 
heat up the chimney and only a small portion enters 
and remains in the room. As a means of warming a 
room then, the fire stands condemned, and yet the 
fire continues to hold a firm place in the hearts of 
English people. There is, indeed, little they like 
better than a good fire. 

And there is no doubt there is good reason for this 
national preference of ours. One great advantage a. 



The Healthy Marriage. 

fire has, consists in the draught up the chimney that 
it causes, for fresh air has to enter to take its place, 
and this air enters from either an opened window or 
through the cracks beside a closed window. It also 
passes in through the door, and in flats and hotels 
the air that passes through the door may be the stale 
air of the building. If this stale air is sucked into a 
bedroom, even in spite of the window being open, 
one may wake heavy and with a headache. 

But as a rule, the air enters from the window or 
from a well-aired passage, in order to replace the air 
that goes up the chimney owing to the heat of the 
fire. As a result, the room in which a fire is burning 
is kept well ventilated. The air, even though the 
room is warm, is fresh, and this is without doubt a 
great point in favour of the fire. By other methods 
of heating this freshness cannot be assured, and 
often a definite staleness is produced. 

The other advantages of the fire are so well known 
that they scarcely need mentioning. The cheerful- 
ness of a fire, its change and vitality and the warm 
bright colour of it are charms nothing else can oifer 
quite in the same way. How much English home 
life would miss were the old talks by the fireside 
omitted, when the lights have been turned low and 
faces look into the glowing e ibers and watch the 
changes in the interludes of silence, and are invited 
by them to a deeper confidence and to meditative 
and low-toned reflections upon this strange life of 
ours. The other methods of warming a room are 
mechanical and without interest compared to the 
sympathetic companionship of a fire. : : . 

Nevertheless, 'in large rooms' especially; a: fire is 

112 



The Heating of Rooms. 

not an efficient warmth distributor. The alterna- 
tive methods of heating are by stoves, hot-water 
pipes, radiators or electric heating. The last has 
not yet become common, but with. the cheapening 
of electricity will do so, for the glow lamps are handy, 
efficient, clean, and healthy. As regards hot-water 
pipes and radiators, there are several different 
methods in use. The radiator system is simple and 
it is not expensive. But all these methods have one 
disadvantage, which as yet has not been overcome. 
They make the air stale and stuffy, and create an 
atmosphere that produces in some people headaches, 
lassitude and a dry mouth and throat. Americans 
and Canadians seem to be able to endure great heat 
and dry, stuffy air, which an Englishman finds it 
hard to tolerate ; indeed, many an Englishman has 
been glad to leave a Canadian winter owing to the 
heat. This stuffiness of the air is not wholly due to 
lack of moisture, and a saucer of water placed upon 
the radiator does not disperse it. The exact cause 
of it has not as yet been determined by scientists, 
but common experience tells us that it is much more 
frequent in rooms heated by pipes or radiators than 
in those heated by fires. 

Stoves also make the air stuffy, and if they are 
made of iron they are apt to smell. They heat a 
room well throughout, keep it warm, are economical, 
and require little attention. The various stoves of 
foreign make, and especially those made with 
ornamental tiles, are the best, but their unbeautiful 
appearance prevents them being popular in England. 
Some of the modern stoves, however, are much 
more elegant. 

H.M 113 8 



The Healthy Marriage. 

Gas stoves warm a room quickly, but are expensive 
and unattractive. 

For a bedroom there can be no question of the 
pleasantness and advantage of a fire over other 
methods of heating. It keeps the air fresh, and 
warms the room for the period of undressing. At 
night, when the fire dies down, there is not the same 
need of warm air, and in the morning, if necessary, 
as in the case of illness, it can be relaid and lit again. 

People are sometimes advised to keep a sick-room , 
a nursery, or an ordinary living-room, at a certain 
definite degree of temperature fixed by a thermo- 
meter, such as 65 Fahr. Such invariability and 
equability is probably harmful rather than good. 
The temperature is monotonous and tame and 
causes a bodily monotony and tameness. Indeed, 
a well-known physiologist has unkindly hinted 
that the monotonous temperature of the House of 
Commons may account for its members. At any 
rate, a varied temperature is better than obeying a 
thermometer. 

The question of the lighting of rooms has under- 
gone so much revolution of late and received so 
much public and domestic discussion that every- 
one knows more or less the various advantages and 
disadvantages. 

The old-fashioned oil lamps have cheapness and 
a certain charm of diffusive light to recommend 
them, but they are troublesome to light, clean, and 
fill, and they vitiate the air. The old form of gas 
has the same disadvantages of vitiating and heating 
the air, and the light given is not good compared 
to its expense. The Welsbach and other incandescent 

114 



Electric Light. 

methods are a great improvement in all respects 
upon the old fish-tail burner and naked flame. 
They give a better light, are cheaper, cleaner, cooler 
and do not vitiate the air so much. But the handiest 
and best form of lighting is the electric. It is cool, 
has no products of combustion, and, therefore, does 
not vitiate the air, it creates no dirt, is steady and 
easy to switch on and off. The light given by it, 
analysed scientifically, especially as an arc light, is 
found to be the artificial light which most closely 
resembles sunlight. Thus plants grow and flowers 
and fruits ripen when exposed to arc light. The old 
carbon filament bulbs are rapidly being superseded 
by the metal filament lamps, which cost only one- 
fourth of the carbon filament lamps. The glare of 
the glowing wire may be found trying, for the eye 
looking at it is apt to be bothered by its image for 
some time. This disadvantage may be got rid of 
by a frosted globe. Otherwise, it is difficult to 
imagine a more perfect form of artificial light. 

Lighting by day scarcely needs mention, but 
it may be said here that full light is healthier than 
dimmed light. It is a pity to have blinds half down 
or to let down sun blinds unless the heat is intoler- 
able. Plenty of sunlight in a room is one of the 
best ways of making the room cheerful and healthy, 
and we Cimmerians, as Goethe called us northerners, 
do not have so much light and sun that we can afford 
to diminish what we have. 



115 



CHAPTER IX. 
Baths and Bathing* 

"There is scarcely a religious system into which bathing 
has not been introduced." W. Alexander. 

THE daily bath has* for a long time been one of the 
distinctions of better-class English people. The 
peoples of the Continent have begun to imitate us 
in this, as in many other matters, but the morning 
bath is still regarded rather as a freak by foreigners. 
Yet there are few English practices which have so 
much to recommend them as the morning bath. 
Women, if they have not the habit, are well-advised 
to acquire it. 

The question arises : Should the morning bath 
be hot or cold ? In the old days this question was 
often answered by the inability to get sufficient hot 
water for the early baths of a household. But with 
improved boilers, or with a geyser, the hot bath can 
always be obtained. Hot water is always tempting. 
There are few comforts that are more luxurious than 
the hot bath, and as a consequence a great number of 
people have yielded to its delights and have a hot 
bath every morning. There are also several reasons 
in favour of it in big cities, where there is a good deal 
of soot and dirt in the air, and arguments are some- 
times drawn in its favour from people like the 
Romans of the Empire, and the Japanese of to-day, 

116 



The Cold Bath. 

who are greatly addicted to hot baths. But though 
the Japanese are a sturdy little people, yet, having 
lived amongst them, I do not see any particular need 
to adopt their custom in this matter and change the 
cold for the hot bath. The Japanese always have 
their bath after their work is done and were all 
England to follow them in this, there is no doubt 
England would have a vastly cleaner body than it 
actually has. But the custom for the morning 
bath has always been that the water should be cold. 
Luxurious people like to have the water hot, but the 
majority still adhere to the cold bath in the morning. 

There can be no doubt that the cold morning bath 
has many advantages over the hot. To get out 
of a hot bed into a hot bath does not promise an 
exhilarating start to the day, nor does it give one. 
The only way of making a hot bath stimulating and 
refreshing is to deliberately jump into it and out of 
it as quickly as one does in a cold bath. But women 
will find this difficult to do, owing to the luxury of 
the warmth. Still if they do it, the vessels of the 
skin dilate, the general blood flow is stimulated and a 
pleasant feeling of exhilaration results. 

Nevertheless, I would strongly recommend my 
readers to retain the old custorrrof the'cold morning 
bath. It has everything in its favour. The sudden 
plunge into cold water, in the winter, at least, 
requires a daily resolution and tightens up the moral 
fibre. On getting out -quickly when the water is 
very cold a delightful glow comes to the skin, and 
the bather feels singularly refreshed and capable 
for the deeds of the day. This glow and sense 
of activity is the test of the cold bath. If, in spite 

117 



The Healthy Marriage. 

of many repetitions it does not occur, the bath has 
failed of its purpose and a woman should discontinue 
it until she feels in better health. For to fail to 
react to the morning bath is a sure sign of feeble 
health or faulty constitution. All young women, at 
least, should react to and enjoy the cold morning 
bath. After it a rub down with a rough bath towel 
adds to the effect. The skin glows under the rubbing 
and a beautiful pink warmth of health comes into 
the cheeks. The eyes are brightened, they do not 
have the listless and tired gaze of those who exhaust 
themselves by hot baths. Cold bathers have 
harder nerves, do not suffer from headache and 
dyspepsia, are less easily worried, have a good 
appetite for breakfast and a cheerful outlook upon 
the day. Moreover, one great advantage of the 
cold bath habit is that women who follow it, not 
only do not feel the cold so much, but they certainly 
do not catch cold so readily. This is a great argu- 
ment in favour of the cold bath, for no petty ailment 
is so annoying as the cold in the head. 

After the bath, or whilst it is filling, is the time 
to take a little morning exercise, the bathroom 
window being open. Breathing deeply with the 
arms akimbo is a healthy habit to form. It fills the 
chest with fresh air and wakes up the deeper air 
cells of the lungs. It is interesting to note the 
expansion of the chest with such breathing exercises. 
The normal expansion is about two inches, but with 
these exercises it can often be made to reach four 
inches or even more. For a woman who sings such 
an expansion is excellent, but anyhow it shows 
capable functioning of the lungs. 

118 



The Hot Bath. 

In winter the water may become too cold, though 
it is astonishing what a degree of coldness one 
can get accustomed to. When the water is so cold, 
hot water can be added to take the chill off, but if 
too much is added the value of the cold bath is 
taken away and the water becomes tepid. A tepid 
bath is like other tepid things, a failure from being 
neither one thing or the other, and makes the 
bather feel chilly when it is over. 

If the reader insists on a hot bath in the morning, 
let me earnestly recommend her either to make it a 
rapid dip, in which case she will get its stimulating 
without its debilitating effects, or when the bath is 
over and the water running away to turn on the 
cold-water tap and with a sponge to sponge the 
body well with cold water, say, some twenty to 
thirty spongefuls. This will give her some of the 
exhilaration of the cold bath without its shock. 
Another method is the cold shower, but pleasant as 
the shower is, it tends to be too much of a shock to 
a delicate woman. She is better advised to take a 
short hot bath, followed by a cold sponge. 

But a prolonged hot bath without a subsequent 
cold sponge in the early morning can only be men- 
tioned to be condemned. I know there are many 
who indulge in it, and I have given it ample trial 
myself. There can be no doubt in cold weather it 
makes one feel the cold during the day more, and 
also increases one's tendency to catch cold. It 
also makes one start the day, if not tired and slack, 
at least not alert and eager. Moreover, much 
abused as the natural oil of the skin is, it cannot be 
wise to wash it right away every morning by soaking 

1*9 



The Healthy Marriage. 

in hot water, followed by an ample use of soap. 
Nature is not senseless, and this natural oil is not 
supplied in order that we may get rid of it as quickly 
as possible. 

In the use of soap in the morning a few words may 
be said. A regular soaping all over is not very 
feasible in a cold bath, nor is a daily soaping all over 
to be commended. It is a mistake to think that 
soaping the face with good soaps, such as Pears or 
Vinolia, hurt the complexion. They do not, and 
often a daily soaping to the face, which is exposed 
to the winds and the dirt of towns, followed by a 
good rub with a towel, works marvels with the com- 
plexion. If the skin is at all rough, soap and water 
should be followed by the rubbing in of a little cold 
cream, and then the skin should be powdered. This 
forms an efficient protection to the skin in cold or 
windy weather. Another good prescription for the 
skin of the face, if it is too dry, is Friar's Balsam, 
one ounce, glycerine, one ounce, and rose-water, 
two ounces. 

A further point in the use of soap is not to let it 
get into the deeper parts of the ear. The shell of 
the ear should be cleansed, but it is a great mistake 
to stuff the ear with soap and sluice it out with 
water. This practice, not infrequently, leads to 
partial deafness, eczema of the ear, with accumula- 
tion of wax and buzzing and cracking sounds in the 
ear. The deeper parts of the ear know how to 
cleanse themselves, and it is unwise to interfere with 
them. 

The time for the hot bath is in the evening before 
going to bed. Once a week such a bath is a good 

120 



The Evening Bath. 

addition to the daily morning bath. If the water 
is hard and it is difficult to get a good lather of soap, 
some ammonia or bath salt can be added to the 
water. If the water is soft these chemicals are 
superfluous. Delicate women who are unable to 
bear the cold may have a warm evening bath every 
day. The temperature of a hot bath is over 98 
Fahr., and of a warm bath 90 Fahr. to 98 Fahr., 
but it is not necessary to have a thermometer to 
find out how warm the bath is, for the hand or the 
foot affords a much better test. Some people enjoy 
water much hotter than others can tolerate. A hot 
or warm bath is strongly recommended to women 
who sleep badly. Often such a bath, taken before 
getting into bed, will be followed by a long and 
refreshing sleep. 

Swimming, as an exercise, has already been men- 
tioned. It is such an excellent and pleasant exercise 
that a daily swim is a delightful habit when the 
weather is sufficiently warm. Sea bathing is well 
known for its great tonic effects, and is one of the 
best ways by which a woman may 'regain her full 
health. 

During the menstrual periods many women avoid 
baths. But at this time cleanliness is as valuable 
and pleasant as at any other time. Dr. von Gelsen 
strongly recommended the bath during the menstrual 
period, and there is certainly no harm in a warm 
bath. Very hot or cold baths should be avoided. 
Swimming and bathing should also be avoided. 

Pregnant women should also avoid very hot or 
very cold baths. But the warm, daily bath is good 
for them and the morning bath, if the chill is taken 

121 



The Healthy Marriage. 

off. Swimming need not be given up until women 
feel that they must give it up owing to their appear- 
ance. The same applies to sea bathing. In the 
earlier months, if the weather is warm, its effect can 
only be beneficial. 



122 



CHAPTER X. 
Sleep. 

" Without toil we make no progress to repose.'' 

Thomas a Kempis. 

THE healthy rest of the body is, of course, the 
necessary complement of its healthy activity. By 
the division that nature has imposed upon us in the 
alternation of night and day, night is peculiarly 
designed for sleep. The darkness and quietness are 
both conducive to sleep, and unless the night is 
passed in proper sleep the day cannot be spent in 
proper activity. If one sleep badly, one will act 
badly and live badly, with irritation and querulous- 
ness in place of the serenity and endurance of 
health. 

Physiologists have speculated a good deal on the 
cause of sleep, but the cause is not really known. 
It is said most frequently to be due to anaemia of 
the brain. It is said also to be due to the benumbing 
effect of the waste products of the body's activity, 
and no doubt this is so, as anyone knows how sleepy 
one gets after hard exercise and great use of the 
muscles. 

But the most striking quality of sleep is its 
periodicity and its close connection with some par- 
ticular period of the twenty-four hours, and it is 
this periodic character that is the most important 
thing to remember in connection with sleep. 

123 



The Healthy Marriage. 

The best way to secure sound and healthy sleep 
is to attend to this periodicity, in other words to 
keep a regular hour of bedtime. Only exceptionally 
should this hour be foregone, and, in the case of 
nervous people at least, the break of routine will 
usually be punished by a sleepless or bad night. 

It is really a golden rule for young married women 
to get a habit of going to bed at a regular and early 
hour, though in London such rule becomes more and 
more difficult to carry out. But it is, of course, not 
impossible to carry out, and for those who love their 
home more than the amusements outside it, it is easy. 
The hours before midnight are popularly known as 
those of beauty sleep, and there is a great deal more 
truth in their value to beauty than is supposed. 
Scientists anyone, indeed, can try the experiment 
have shown that it is much harder to wake people 
out of sleep in the hours before midnight than it is 
in those after midnight, and the lightness of the sleep 
increases as the hours of morning come round. 
Now, deep sleep means deep rest. It means a slow 
pulse, slow breathing, cessation from activity of 
most of the vital organs and complete rest for the 
brain, free of dreams and the tags and oddities of 
thought. This deep sleep is easier to obtain before 
midnight than after. It is the sleep of the best 
quality, and such sleep means the thorough restora- 
tion of the faculties to activity in the day and 
preserves health at the highest level, such health as 
is indeed the true and necessary (concomitant of 
beauty. 

One of the first rules of healthy sleep, then, is to 
go to bed regularly an hour or two before midnight. 

124 



The Length of Sleep. 

An interruption of such a habit will usually 
impoverish the sleep, and in those who have a 
tendency to insomnia this result is a certainty. 
Though such women sleep at once if they go to bed 
at their accustomed hour, if they go too late or too 
early they nearly always have to pay the penalty by 
lying awake for some time, or by broken sleep. 

The length of sleep has been aptly indicated by a 
story. A gentleman was once asking a famous 
physician about sleep. " Seven hours for a man, 
eight for a woman, and nine for a fool, isn't it, 
doctor ? " The physician nodded. " Perhaps/' he 
replied, " but the fool is the wisest of the three. 
The length of sleep of a healthy woman, who takes 
exercise during the day and sleeps with the bedroom 
window open, is given by her sleeping her sleep out. 
But if no exercise is taken and the room is close and 
ill-ventilated, a long, heavy sleep, from which it is 
difficult to wake up properly, results. Being an 
unhealthy sleep, one cannot say how long it ought 
to be. It ought, first of all, to be changed to 
a healthy sleep, and from a healthy sleep one 
wakes as swiftly and completely as an animal 
alarmed. 

The conditions that induce a healthy sleep are 
first of all a contented mind, which in itself is usually 
the concomitant of a healthy body. A woman who 
takes little exercise and eats rich foods is very apt 
to get worried about matters that would not worry 
her did she live more simply ; and worry is a potent 
cause of broken sleep. A woman of weak constitu- 
tion or nervous temperament is still more likely to 
worry about matters, and will lie awake with her 

125 



The Healthy Marriage. 

mind busy with possibilities and conjectures ; or 
she will lie in a state of half consciousness, in which 
all sorts of ominous and alarming half thoughts and 
images flit through her irritated brain. 

The best domestic cure against such insomnia is a 
combination of the three habits of exercise, fresh air, 
and a regular hour for going to bed. By healthy 
ways of life a woman will harden herself against the 
worries of life. Really healthy people rarely or 
never worry, and certainly not so as to give them 
insomnia. But if these simple means and some 
others now to be given do not succeed, then the 
reader should seek her doctor for advice. 

Indigestion is a fruitful cause of broken sleep and 
insomnia. Sometimes it occurs with cold feet, and 
less commonly, cold feet occur without indigestion. 
Both are potent enemies of good sleep. Indigestion 
should be dealt with by the woman endeavouring 
to discover what it is that does not suit her, and by 
her taking a dose of salts or other aperient medicine. 
Often a hot bottle or hot flannels laid across the 
abdomen will take away the discomfort or pain of 
indigestion, and will promote sleep. Cold feet often 
bother people, especially at night, and then keep 
them awake. The best cure for cold feet at night is 
to make them take plenty of exercise by day. Silk 
stockings are also good, and if the feet perspire the 
inside of the stocking may be powdered with French 
chalk. A further remedy that I have found bene- 
ficial is for a woman to put her feet into cold, not hot 
water, before going to bed, giving them a good rub 
with a dry towel and then putting on bed socks. A 
hot bottle, though a delight, is not a good remedy. 

126 



The Promotion of Sleep, 

It is a substitute, and, moreover, is apt to cause 
chilblains. 

Further ways of inducing sleep are to take a meal 
late and then go to bed, for it is easier to sleep after 
a heavy meal, as anyone acquainted with con- 
tinental siestas knows. A warm bath taken before 
going to bed is an admirable producer of sound sleep. 
A glass of warm milk taken as one goes to bed has a 
like effect. 

A nightcap in the form of whisky cannot be too 
strongly deprecated. No woman should ever get 
into such a perilous habit as is involved in the 
taking of a nightcap. Hot tea and coffee, as is 
generally known, keep people awake, but a hot cup 
of cocoa is conducive to sleep. 

Light bed^clothing, as long as sufficiently warm, 
promotes a good sleep better than heavy. 

If the day has been one of worry and the worry 
is to be dreaded in the coming days, it is often well 
to play a quiet game of cards to take away the 
worrying thoughts or overlay them with a mono- 
tonous occupation. The various games of patience 
have a just repute for this power. Other people find 
the reading of a chapter of a book, either before 
going to bed or in bed, distracts their thoughts from 
their own affairs and enables them to sleep. A 
further simple remedy for sleeplessness, due to ^orry, 
is to wring out a face towel in cold water and to bind 
it round the head. The damp can be kept from the 
pillow by a strip of batiste laid over the pillow. 
This remedy, which sounds disagreeable, is not really 
so, and is often very efficacious. 

Lastly, married people are aware that intercourse 
127 



The Healthy Marriage. 

is conducive to sleep. Insomnia of a trying kind may 
sometimes arise owing to its absence in married 
people. 

Women, when pregnant, sometimes have a great 
tendency to sleep, and others sleep badly owing to 
the dyspepsia from which they suffer. Sometimes 
it is said the movements of the child keep them 
awake, but I have never had any case in which this 
complaint was made without finding some other and 
usually curable cause of irritability, which made 
even the movements of the child a matter of 
complaint. 



CHAPTER XI 
Housekeeping, Hobbies, and Home Arts. 

" The many make the household 
But only one the home." 

Lowell. 

IT cannot be too often repeated that one of the 
laws of happiness, and therefore of health, is to be 
able to do something, and to do it well. Barnes, 
one of the greatest of women's physicians, was wont 
to say that the great need for women was something 
to do. That is not so much the need in these days, 
for everyone tends to be infected by the fever of 
doing. But the're is something far more needful 
than mere doing to happiness and content. There 
is the need of doing something personally and doing 
it well. There is, in fact, the creative need in doing. 
In present times, there is not a little necessity of 
clarity in these matters. We hear a great deal of 
hustling and being busy, but a good deal of this 
hustle and business is worse than foolish, for it often 
means that women are very busy in occupations 
to which they give their time and money, but little 
or nothing of themselves.* Such occupations kill 
time, as the graphic expression terms it, but in 
killing time it also kills the joy of life and promotes 
either ennui or a submission to an eternal mechani- 

* The war, of course, has given much valuable and 
necessary occupation to women. 

H.M. 129 9 



The Healthy Marriage. 

cally succession of actions. One of the curses of our 
day is the absence of personality in work and doing. 
The typewriter is a typical case in point. Anyone 
who has learnt to type, knows the pleasure there is 
in the first attempts and in the gradual attainment 
of the mastery of the machine. If a young wife 
learns to type, she takes no little pleasure in her 
first attempts and, leaning upon the shoulder of her 
husband, in watching him unable to detect faults as 
he corrects her pages. But the pleasure, when 
mastery is attained, soon palls, and the reason is that 
the instrument itself really becomes the doer, and the 
operator its servant. No true personality can be 
put into it ; it is impossible to type according to 
anyone's taste or to vary it according to someone's 
taste. The monotony of perfection is the machine's 
and the perfection, if so it may be termed, is of a 
deadly kind, for one can expect nothing but one 
fixed and settled quality from the machine. All 
the charm of mood and the varied touches that 
personality can give to work are wanting. The 
same remarks apply to such mechanical instruments 
as the pianola. It is true that a little more person- 
ality can be put into the pianola, but it is very little, 
and the praise must be given to the instrument and 
not to the operator. 

It is, indeed, quite exasperating to see how such 
mechanical occupations and amusements gain upon 
people hi these days. They offer apparent ease in 
that -they call only for repetitive movements, and 
make no demands upon .people's personal creative 
efforts. But in the end they lea-ve people dis- 
satisfied and discontented. Thus it comes about one 

130 



Impersonal Occupations. 

can often see a woman, who spends her time 
immensely busy at occupations in which the share 
she gives is at a minimum. She is taken in a taxi to 
shop, and though the choice of pretty or useful things 
is hers under the persuasion of the saleswoman, the 
making and credit of them is not hers. She then 
goes on to a concert, where once more she is enter- 
tained by the efforts and skill of others. Or she may, 
now that cinematographs are cropping up even in 
small towns, spend time at one of their shows, where 
the instrument and not she is the wonder. She may 
go to a theatre or other entertainment, where again 
she sits as passive spectator. She may go out to tea 
with friends, and then personally shares in the 
conversation, and though temporarily amused and 
pleased also with her own share, yet this pleasure, if 
her chief one, makes her life appear somewhat 
fatuous and empty. At the end of the day, having 
returned home from such occupations, she sits down 
with her husband to a dinner which she has not 
cooked or even superintended, and afterwards may 
spend her time in reading a novel, which she could 
not write, or listening to the music of a gramaphone 
or an electrophone, which she could not play. One 
cannot wonder that such occupations lead to ennui, 
which really means that a woman wonders for what 
purpose she is living. If she have children, her 
purpose may be watching and guiding their interests, 
but even then if she has no personal share in their 
guidance and company comparable to that which 
she hands over to the nurse, she cannot take the 
same keenness of interest as she would otherwise. 
Moreover, the very impersonal quality of her other 

131 9-2 



The Healthy Marriage. 

occupations gives her a definite basis of ennui which 
she applies to all the incidents and components of her 
life. She becomes thoroughly blasee, which word 
describes an appalling emptiness. Moreover, all 
sorts of petty trifles begin to occupy her, and failing 
to create anything good and positive, she creates 
only things that are bad and negative. All sorts of 
apparently imaginary ailments, which are really the 
expression of her rooted discontent with her life, 
seize upon her. Little troubles, that a healthy 
woman ignores, expand in her empty life to great 
concerns. She becomes fretful, peevish, and bored, 
and affects all around her with a sense of uselessness 
and helplessness. Sometimes in such a condition 
she is glad to get in the family way, merely because 
it is a change and for the nonce makes her important 
and interesting in her own eyes and the eyes of 
others. But the ailments and inconveniences of 
pregnancy are great to her ; they are genuine and 
definite afflictions to balance which she lacks serious 
and absorbing occupation or hobbies. She makes 
more and more exactions upon her husband and 
upon others, and her condition becomes more than 
ever one in which she demands amusement and 
entertainment from without. Every doctor has 
often met such a case, and sometimes been at his 
wits' end how to carry his patient through the 
natural process of pregnancy without an abundant 
crop of petty disasters resulting from it. 

The golden rule of activity, then, is that a woman 
should always have some occupation or occupations 
to which she gives something of herself and for 
her skill in which she justly acquires her own 

132 



The Needle versus the Typewriter. 

secret commendation and the praise of her husband 
and friends. 

A homely instance will make clear what I mean. 
Let us compare the needle to the typewriter. 
Nothing could be more simple than the needle, 
nothing as a household machine more complicated 
than the typewriter. The work that the needle 
performs depends entirely upon the skill and 
interest of the worker. The work that the type- 
writer performs eventually owes little or nothing to 
the worker. There is amongst many wives in these 
days a foolish scorn for the skill of the needle. It 
is a scorn of which I find it difficult to write with 
tolerance. It is true some women cannot take any 
interest in the needle, but the general neglect 
compared to the skill and interest with which the 
needle used to be plied, admits of only two explana- 
tions. Either better work has come to the hands 
of women or else the present generation in general 
lacks the personality of its mothers and grand- 
mothers. Beautiful needlework betokens fine quali- 
ties of character, taste, perseverance, accuracy, 
pride in one's own quality of work, and the love of 
making something that is a pleasure to oneself and 
others. 

Now, say that a woman instead of going out to 
shop to buy a fancy nightgown, bought the material, 
some silk or crepon, some lace and ribbon, and then 
sat down to make herself a nightgown ; with a little 
practice she should be able to make a nice one, and, 
if she is gifted, a beautiful one. She has not only 
saved money, but she has now a nightgown that 
really is her own, and one in which she will take no 

133 



The Healthy Marriage. 

little pride. It is not merely a necessity or a toy 
of a few days' pleasure, but it reminds her of her own 
efficiency and skill. 

Now let us enlarge this making of the nightgown. 
Let her do the needlework that covers the cushions 
in her drawing-room. The reader may smile, but 
in the past it was the rule and not the exception for 
the ladies of the house to do such needlework. The 
result was ugly, my fair reader may reply. The 
machine-made product is prettier. But what was 
it to the women of that time ? It gave them 
pleasure and pride, as we know. The sitting-room 
became their room in a much wider sense than it is 
as a rule now. 

But activity should in no way stop at the artistic 
and serviceable needle. There are, as has been said, 
some cases of genuine dislike to the needle from 
girlhood up. A woman's activity has far more 
scope in her own house. There is the whole house 
to tend. A Dutch wife has become a proverb. She 
cleans her house until it is a delight to the eye, and 
brass and pots shine with a radiance that would 
charm the most exacting naval officer. English 
ladies cannot or certainly will not be so zealous as 
this, but a wife can both superintend and take an 
active part' in the care, cleansing and beautifying 
of her house. And she will be rewarded by the house 
becoming peculiarly hers, her house, her home, the 
home that is the expression of her personality. It 
will not be merely a convenient place where she 
lives, eats, sleeps, stores her purchases and entertains 
her friends. 

In the matter of cooking the same thing applies. 
134 



Personal Arts. 

If a woman either has a share or at least an under- 
standing interest in the meals that are served, she 
will find them less matters of indifference, or of 
occasions for praise or blame to her cook. For it 
must be repeated that all arts enable a woman to 
put personality into her work and, according as her 
personal care and skill is exhibited in them, so will 
she find pleasure and purpose in them and not be 
wondering what to do or even what reason there is 
in life. Cooking is a very definite art, and household 
management is also a definite art. Other arts, which 
permit personal expression and which, therefore, 
cause a woman to feel satisfaction, the sense of 
personal value and not emptiness and boredom 
or the need of constant distraction from without, are 
knitting and crochet work, which may be brought up 
to a pitch of great excellence. Music, of course, 
is a supreme art, and skill in musical expression 
is one that gives a ceaseless source to the expression 
of mood and feeling. To me, it seems that in the 
education of girls, music should be compulsory. 
Then in later years many women would not regret 
their inability to charm their leisure hours and give 
pleasure to their home by means of this wonderful art. 
Fortified by such occupations, and seeing about 
her the fruits of her labour, there can be no reason 
why a wife should be bored in her own home, or be 
ceaseless in her search of the distractions that the 
work of others can give her, distractions that fail to 
support her days, until in desperation she resorts to 
such ephemeral employment of personality as 
backing her skill at bridge affords, or even some 
worse habit. 

135 



The Healthy Marriage. 

I would repeat, then, that one of the golden rules 
of happiness is to do something, and to do it well. 
The house of a married lady affords her ample 
opportunity and choice in such doing, and by taking 
her opportunity she gives the house the personal 
quality and charm by which it earns the more 
endearing title of home. 

There is a further feature about the. modern 
household which I feel has reached such a pitch 
that it now comes definitely within the sphere of the 
physician. He, at least, knows how serenity is a 
part of health. By serenity I do not mean a 
comfortable placidity, in itself a condition by no 
means to be despised, but a calmness which, as it 
were, understands life, and is equably disposed to it, 
knowing that it can accomplish what it purposes. 
Now the modern household cannot be said to 
conduce, to such general equanimity. Its technical 
confusion is far too great. The average household 
of the day is like a vessel that is top-heavy. Any 
small wave upon the ocean of life makes it reel and 
lurch in an ominous manner, almost as if it were a 
tidal wave. I can give as an instance the technical 
confusion and overloading that is necessary for an 
ordinary meal, and, to show how marked this is, 
compare it to the simple bowl, rice and elegant foods, 
chop-sticks or fingers with finger-bowl, with which 
an Eastern potentate himself is satisfied. But when 
we sit down to a meal to-day, the paraphernalia of 
preparation is enormous. It is far larger than it 
was fifty years ago, and then it was fully sufficient. 
I do not, of course, advocate an adoption of Oriental 

136 



The Overloaded Household. 

modes. Such advice would serve no purpose but to 
bring a smile upon the face of my reader which 
would not be one complimentary to me. But I 
would draw her attention to the extraordinary 
paraphernalia of preparation which is needful before 
the modern dinner can be consumed. These are the 
necessities for one person that seem imperative. A 
kitchen range, pots, pans, grills and gridirons, plates 
and dishes of five or six kinds, three or more knives, 
four forks, two spoons, three glasses, carvers, knife 
rests, plate d'oylies, dish d'oylies, dish covers, cruet- 
stand, salt, mustard and pepper cellars, pots, boxes 
and spoons, sugar basin and spoon, sauce tureens, 
soup tureen, decanters I need not go into a more 
extended list, but every housewife knows the 
multiple possessions that must be hers before even 
the necessities of life can be satisfied. Let her count 
up upon her fingers the number of things she needs to 
enable her to sleep, to eat, to dress, the cost not only 
in money but in genuine labour they require for 
purchase and upkeep, the amount of service they 
require from menders, polishing powders, the eternal 
rubbing of silver, glass, and metal to keep them 
bright, and one seems to see that a housewife's duties 
are on a par with those of the head of the commis- 
sariat of an army in the field. It is stupendous, and 
I have often marvelled that so much labour should be 
expended upon a table that could well be made 
efficient and pleasing to look upon without stuffing it 
like a shop window. I have also wondered how any 
housewife could keep the "mastery of such infinite 
trivialities, and I find frequently she does not do so. 
I find that, even if she does, its retention is a matter 

137 



The Healthy Marriage. 

of constant worry and vexation to her, and often she 
rebels against the whole thing, and prefers to live in a 
hotel. At the same time, in keeping with this 
rebellion, there is an industrial movement in pro- 
gress, forced by necessity, for a greater simplicity in 
the management of a household. Gas and electric 
cooking have simplified the kitchen, and electric 
stoves bid fair to simplify heating. But the simpli- 
fication has not gone much further than that. It has 
not made the paraphernalia of the dining-room, 
drawing-room, or bedroom less elaborate. Yet there 
is certainly no artistic or physiological reason why a 
greater simplicity should not be attained. Only if 
the lust for accumulation and display are to overrule 
those of personal taste can this technical confusion be 
justified. It is the pocket and not the taste that is 
illustrated by it. A room is not made to be stuffed 
like a warehouse, nor a table to be crowded like a 
tray upon which a pedlar displays his wares. 
Space and simplicity are essentially qualities of 
taste, and it is far better to be proud of one's taste 
in the arrangement and rearrangement, the mastery 
in short, of a limited number of things than merely 
to be proud of the number, the cost, the workman's 
skill, and the glitter of one's possessions. It is a 
great truth that many conscientious women to-day 
are possessed by their possessions. They are the 
servants, the possessions are the masters. This is 
seen especially in the irritating regularity that is 
absolutely necessary in order that the household's 
day may be accomplished. The dinner-bell becomes 
a tyrant whom no one can disobey. If a servant 
gets in a temper and leaves, the whole household 

138 



Mechanical Days. 

rocks and lurches for days. There must be an 
exact piece of the day cut out for the reading and 
answering of letters, the orders for the day, the 
visiting and attention to the children, the inspection 
of the house, the paying or receiving of visits, the 
change of dress, until the day goes by with the 
mechanical precision of the clock. Each moment, 
each tick is filled. Everything must be precise. 
There is no space or opportunity for margin. There 
is nothing to spare. The ship sails always under full 
canvas. And each housewife knows that if a gust 
comes or anything unusual happens, then the 
household may suddenly be plunged into confusion, 
from which it only slowly emerges and is once more 
worked up to its state of tense congestion. Such a 
congested traffic of domestic life cannot possibly be 
healthy, yet I know how difficult it is to change. I 
would suggest for all who live in town that as 
regards food, the simple continental breakfast is a 
great reduction of elaborate preparation, and is, I 
believe, more healthy for the somewhat sedentary 
life citizens are bound to lead. Lunch can also be 
greatly simplified both in food, preparation and the 
spread of the table. Dinner is, of course, a matter of 
compromise with the husband. As regards furni- 
ture, need the drawing-room be so full of furniture 
and knick-knacks, each a separate purchase and 
making with the others merely a crowd, and so on 
throughout the house ? And as regards time, though 
a certain regularity is essential in our life, I warmly 
recommend my readers to allow themselves a large 
margin, to prevent regularity becoming a tyranny, 
whose punishments when she fails to obey with 

139 



The Healthy Marriage. 

exactitude, are vexatious, upsetting her temper, 
reacting upon her health, and being as great a trial 
to her nervous force as the frequent threat of the 
rod would be to a child. Let her have a balance of 
time on her side. Let her give to herself at least two 
hours of margin. With it she will have leisure and 
the serenity that knows that what it purposes it can 
accomplish, and with it one of the very foundations 
of health and happiness. 



140 



CHAPTER XII. 
Dress. 

" The blade wears out the sheath." French Proverb. 

DRESS has two purposes. It preserves the 
warmth of the body and it serves for ornament. 
The latter purpose is one so peculiarly feminine that 
there is little for a doctor to say that is to the point. 
The former, based originally upon experience, is now 
interpreted in a closer understanding of nature. 

The natural protector of the body and regulator 
of its heat, the skin, is a beautiful arrangement. 
It consists of a deep layer composed of meshes of 
fibrous tissue, in which fat is lodged, and an outer 
cuticle. In addition to this it has several vital pro- 
cesses by which the warmth of the body is regulated. 
When one is hot the blood vessels of the skin dilate 
and relieve the deep organs of blood. When cold, 
the blood vessels contract, the skin becomes pale, 
and the tiny muscles of the skin tighten up producing 
the condition of goose skin. The meaning of this 
goose skin has never been given, but it seems 
probable that the actual area of skin exposed to 
the cold is decreased and the underlying fat in the 
meshes is drawn closer together forming a thicker 
layer of resistance to the cold. Additional powers 
of the skin lie in the sweat and sebaceous glands, 
glands which produce the perspiration and the oil of 
the skin. Both of these are produced by the skin 

141 



The Healthy Marriage. 

in greater quantity when one is hot, but there is 
always a certain amount of production and notably 
of the oil of the skin even in the coldest weather. 
Indeed, the oil of the skin seems to be a definite 
protective against cold and I disapprove of the 
exaggeration in frequency of hot baths and soap, 
which have the convenient hygienic excuse of 
keeping the skin free from dirt. We all have a 
religious horror of dirt, and rightly. But I believe 
this daily scrubbing away of the natural oil of the 
skin in a hot bath is detrimental to the power of the 
skin to protect the body from cold, and that the 
shivery people, who indulge in the habit of the daily 
hot bath throughout the cold months of the year, 
bring on their excessive sensitiveness to cold them- 
selves. One hot bath with free soaping in the week 
should be sufficient. For all people, who are not 
invalids, the daily cold bath is healthier and saves 
its devotees from catching cold. 

The Laplanders in the winter freely oil their skins 
to keep out the cold, and they also wear the reindeer 
skin, in which they are dressed, with the fur next to 
the skin and the cuticle outside. This manner they 
have found affords the best protection against the 
arctic cold. The finer powers of the skin in defence 
against cold they cannot imitate. They have to 
confine themselves to the use of oil and to wearing 
the reindeer skin like a second skin, namely, with the 
fur corresponding to the deeper meshy and fatty 
layer of the skin, turned inwards and the cuticle, or 
leather, outside. It could be imitated in England 
by the wearing of meshy underclothing and costume 
and furs covered by a close impervious material. 

142 



The Science of Clothes. 

But our climate rarely requires such extreme though 
simple measures. 

We are content, as a rule, with laying upon the 
skin a meshy layer of stuff which keeps in the heat. 
The best materials for doing this are pretty generally 
known. The extraordinary American schoolmaster, 
who became Count Rumford and Commander-in- 
Chief of the Bavarian army, laid the scientific 
foundations of clothes in his researches to find the 
most suitable garments for his soldiers. 

He warmed up a thermometer to 70 R. and 
wrapped various stuffs round it to see how capable 
they were of holding in the heat, noting the time 
that the thermometer took in falling to 10 R. He 
found that the order in which stuffs prevented the 
loss of heat (that is to say the order in which they 
made the best warm clothes) was hare's fur, raw silk, 
eiderdown, beaver fur, sheep's wool, cotton wool, the 
cotton wool being a little more than one-fourth 
inferior to the silk. Count Rumford also showed 
that increased thickness of clothes did not increase 
the heat retaining powers proportionately. He also 
found that the closer the mesh of a textile stuff the 
less was the capacity it had of retaining heat. 
Finally, he tested the capacity of stuffs for taking 
up water and he found that sheep's wool came first, 
then silk, then linen, and lastly cotton. The upshot 
of all this is that the best stuff for underclothing is 
loose-textured wool or silk, and that if cotton is 
used its texture should be loose ; also that wool 
takes longer to wet than linen or cotfon, and 
therefore is a greater safeguard against chill due to 
perspiration in summer than the two other materials. 

143 



The Healthy Marriage. 

These things are now generally known, and the 
value of loose-textured wool or silk, or combinations 
of these with cotton, which do not shrink as wool 
tends to do in the wash, is to be seen in most modern 
underwear. Too thick underwear with thick cloth 
costumes or dresses in winter are apt to make a 
woman tired by their weight alone. Especially is 
this the case with two or even more heavy petticoats 
which encumber the legs when walking. To keep 
out the cold, drawers or bloomers are more effective. 
Indeed it has been said that mankind may be 
divided into two kinds by the clothes ; those that 
belong to the south, who wear flowing garments, 
and those of the north, who wear trousers, and the 
only reason why our women preserve the flowing 
garment is that they have been kept so free from 
exposure by men that they were able to preserve 
the southern or tropical raiment. Be this as it may, 
there is no doubt that bloomers are warmer than 
petticoats. 

As regards the colours of dresses, experience has 
proved and science has confirmed, that white and 
light colours are cooler than black and dark colours. 
One cannot leave the question of dress without 
touching upon the vexed matter of the corset. The 
corset has had an extraordinary amount of abuse 
levelled at it during the last years. " There are 
some men, however, chiefly young and ignorant 
ones," writes a recent authoress, " who, by their 
senseless preference for impossible waists in their 
women folk, are greatly to blame for the prevalence 
of this horrible habit." In so far as ladies pinch 
their waists, whether at the bidding of youthful 

144 



The Corset. 

admirers or not, this authoress is, perhaps, justified, 
but there are not many women who pinch their 
waists very tightly. 

The question, apart from aesthetics and the charm 
of outline corsets give, is really : Is it better to 
suspend the clothes from the shoulders only as men 
do or from the shoulders and the waist as women do ? 
The disadvantage of suspension of the clothes from 
the shoulders is probably slight. I do not remember 
ever having seen any objection to the braces in books. 
Yet those who rail so against the corset might be 
countered with the declaration that the lower 
garments suspended by the brace, weigh down the 
collarbone upon the first rib, and the first rib presses 
on the lung just at that spot where consumption 
commonly begins. The objection to the corset is 
that it compresses the lower part of the chest and 
prevents abdominal breathing. All Oriental women 
breathe like men. It is only women who wear 
corsets who are confined to breast breathing. The 
lung capacity of women who wear corsets is, there- 
fore, less than it should be, and they have to breathe 
more quickly to get the same amount of air. Bad 
oxidation results, and therefore women who com- 
press the lower part of their chests with tight corsets 
tend to get anaemic or fat. The stomach and kidneys 
are said to be pushed down. Floating kidney and 
displacement of the womb are said to be helped by 
the corset. Weak backs are promoted, and when 
women leave off their corsets they are said to be 
greatly troubled with backache. Lastly, the rub- 
bing of the breasts by the corsets is said to be 
conducive to cancer of the breasts. 

H.M. 145 10 



The Healthy Marriage. 

This is a formidable list, and if only one or two of 
them were certainly true, it would be a strong 
argument against the corset. I am not aware that 
any of them have been proved true. The liver 
certainly becomes constricted, but no one has shown 
a definite connection between a constricted liver 
and any forms of disease or weakness. The prob- 
ability and the general trend of the evidence, 
however, tend to show that some are true, and are 
sufficient to make us regard the corset with suspicion. 
It certainly has a long history to support it. The 
Assyrians, though not wearing a corset, wore a 
broad waist belt, which approached in character 
to the corset. Roman ladies, undoubtedly, wore 
corsets, for Terence, the dramatist, makes a char- 
acter speak of " town ladies, who saddle their backs 
and straightlace their waists to make them well 
shaped." The Norman ladies also wore corsets, 
and the name corset is in use in the thirteenth 
century. They continued to be in use in the next 
century, and so aroused an Emperor of Austria that 
he issued an edict against them and stirred the 
physicians of the day to fulminate against tight 
lacing. A little later, Catherine de Medicis brought 
in an opposite edict, declaring that a thirteen-inch 
waist was to be the measure of her approval, and 
literally binding her friends with hoops of steel. In 
the seafaring times of Elizabeth whalebone was sub- 
stituted for steel and other materials, but George II. 
went back to wood. The gentlemen of fashion in 
George III.'s days wore dainty and ornate satin stays, 
but their male descendants rejected them and left 
the compressors of the pliant figure to women alone 

146 



Personality in Dress. 

The corset, then, has certainly stood the trial of 
time as regards hygiene. Nevertheless, although 
I think it foolish to inveigh against the corset, and 
feel that the matter is for the ladies rather than the 
doctor to decide, I shall be glad when the corset is 
defunct and viewed by the curious in the galleries 
of South Kensington. 

Similarly, though the effect of the following points 
upon health are only indirect, one hopes to see a 
little more personal quality, a little less dressmaker, 
a little more stability, a little less advertisement in 
dress and fashion. Although it is quite impossible 
to imitate the dresses of the Greeks, yet it is possible 
to remember their principles and to recall that, 
firstly, the shape of their clothes for both men and 
women varied, fundamentally, scarcely at all for a 
thousand years. The variety and use of ornament 
and ornamentation varied, but not the essentials 
of the dress. This stability argues a stability of 
contentment. The Greeks and the Egyptians before 
them found the type of dress that suited them and 
their climate, and kept to it. They were not plagued 
with dress reformers, for there was nothing to 
reform. Secondly, the beauty of the dress was 
personal. It did not depend upon the tailor or 
dressmaker, for there were no tailors or dressmakers. 
The cloth was made, but the arrangements of it a^ 
a dress depended on the wearer, and was beautiful 
or less successful according to his or her skill. The 
measure of one dress against another was really the 
measure of one taste and skill against another, and 
not of one dressmaker and purse against another 
dressmaker and purse. The consequence was, there 

147 



The Healthy Marriage. 

was a far greater personal joy in the dress, and such 
pleasure is positive and healthy. To-day a lady, 
depending too much on the dressmaker, cannot 
have the same personal pride in it, and finds her 
pleasure in the feeling of possession rather than 
creation a less healthy pleasure, for it is connected 
with the feelings of envy, jealousy, and the desire 
to excel, often by some extravagance. Thirdly, 
owing to this personal quality and stability of type, 
the ancients were free from the fever of fashion, 
which began eight hundred years ago with an 
exaggeration of the sleeves until they had to be 
tied up, and has continued ever since with the same 
foolish exaggerations as its chief features. Such 
a reliance upon the dressmaker, always eager to 
drive women to buy more dresses, and upon exag- 
gerations, makes the women of to-day slaves to 
their dresses and to be concerned more with whether 
they are in the fashion than with anything else. 
Any development of personal skill or taste in dress 
simply becomes impossible under such conditions, 
and the wanton extravagance only results in a 
medley of confusion and of advertisement, which 
makes European and American women fall far 
short of many Oriental women in the beauty of 
dress. A crowd of Burmese women is beautiful 
to look upon ; it displays a simple, common type of 
dress upon which every delicate variety of personal 
taste may be engrafted. But a crowd of European 
women is simply bizarre. 

One cannot but think that behind this inability 
of European and American women to use their 
dress for beauty and taste rather than to make a 

148 



Advertisement in Dress. 

show there lurks a very unhealthy principle. Modern 
dress savours too much of those purposes which are 
desirable ends to the demi-mondaine (indeed, the 
demi-mondaine actually sets the fashion, which the 
other women follow). Modern dress, therefore, 
betokens too much a competition that might be 
legitimate in a harem, but is unhealthy in society, 
and promotes and encourages competitive envy 
with all the harassment and petty ill-health that 
arise from it. Contentment and the stability that 
is indicative of contentment have long vanished, 
and in their place there is a feverish restlessness, an 
eternal striving for pre-eminence in the peculiar 
circle in which a woman moves. One has only to 
look at the shops of the day to see that the women 
are the extravagant spendthrifts far more than 
men, and that an enormous amount of the world's 
work and the sweating, which women profess to 
deplore, is expended in attempting to satisfy the 
cravings of female vanity. Modern dress and 
fashion, indeed, seem directly contradictory to the 
home, and make, not the home, but the market 
place, the habitat of women. ' Why so few 
marriages are happy," said Swift, " is because 
ladies spend their time in making nets and not in 
making cages." 



149 



CHAPTER XIII. 
Menstruation. 

"Quotations are useful, ingenious, and excellent, when 
not overdone." Fournier. 

MENSTRUATION is the sign that a woman is, 
theoretically, capable of bearing children. Prac- 
tically, there are exceptions, but, in general, men- 
struation is the common sign that a woman is in 
the fertile period of her life. From the time of her 
first menstruation to her last a healthy woman is 
capable of bearing children, and though commonly 
her child-bearing period occupies the middle years 
of this wide range of time, yet it is possible for the 
children to be born to mothers at the age of the 
earliest menstruation and also at the age of the 
latest. The earliest pregnancy, I believe, on record 
is one at the age of eight. Possibly it has occurred 
earlier, but in the eighth and ninth years pregnancy, 
though rare, has been recorded by doctors on several 
occasions. Mothers of the age of ten are by no 
means uncommon amongst some native tribes. The 
laws of the early Aryans, for instance, permitted a 
girl to marry at the age of eight, and to choose a 
husband for herself, if her parents had not found 
her one, when she was eleven. The latest age at 
which a woman has borne a child is recorded as 
seventy, but cases of pregnancy in women over 



Early and Late Menstruation. 

sixty are exceedingly rare ; in women over fifty 
they have been often recorded. 

The earliest year at which menstruation can 
appear in a girl is therefore the eighth, though even 
with so early a year as the eighth, the strictest truth 
has not been given, for four- weekly discharge of 
blood from the vagina has been noticed even in 
sucklings. Such cases of precocious menstruation 
are usually accompanied by precocious sexual 
development. Thus Kisch records from Diamant 
the case of a little girl, who began to menstruate 
regularly at the age of two years, and who was fully 
developed like a mature woman at the age of six 
years, and this case itself is not absolutely unique, 
nor the earliest recorded menstruation. 

As there are these extraordinary exceptions to the 
immaturity of childhood, so there is the case of a 
woman recorded who menstruated until she was 
seventy-two, and Kisch reports that he himself has 
seen 106 cases of menstruation continuing after the 
age of fifty. 

But putting these exceptions aside, it may be said 
that the normal age at which menstruation com- 
mences in England is between thirteen and sixteen, 
in warm countries between eleven and fourteen, in 
the most northern inhabited lands between fifteen 
and eighteen. The average age for the cessation of 
the monthly periods or the menopause or change of 
life, as it is technically and popularly called, is in 
England forty-five, in the most northern countries 
fifty, in the tropics forty. The average fertile period 
of an Englishwoman's life is, therefore, from fifteen 
to forty-five, a period of thirty years. If the menses 



The Healthy Marriage. 

start very early, between the tenth and twelfth years, 
or very late, between the eighteenth and twenty- 
fourth years, then the fertile period is usually shorter 
than normal. Healthy child-bearing and lactation 
prolong the fertile period. 

The years during which menstruation occurs as a 
physiological function of a woman's body, form the 
fertile period of her life, because the process of 
menstruation is definitely connected with the 
egg-bearing functions of the ovary. During these 
years, a woman's ovaries produce ova which if 
fertilized by the male seed, cause her to become 
pregnant. With menstruation puberty begins, with 
its cessation the possibility of child-bearing ends. 

The process of ovulation or egg-bearing is one in 
which an egg bursts from the ovary and is carried 
along a tube, called the Fallopian tube, into the 
womb. Both menstruation and ovulation are 
periodic. Both occur every lunar month, the 
regularity of the menses being frequently absolutely 
as regular as the changes of the moon. Both, there- 
fore, appear to have some altogether inscrutable 
connection with the cycles of the moon. The 
periodicity of menstruation and ovulation are not, 
however, necessarily synchronous. They do not 
always occur together, though both occur once in' 
the month. Ovulation, of course, is the actual sign 
of fertility. Menstruation is the outward and 
visible sign of ovulation. By it the inner wall of 
the womb is shed, and thus the soil of the womb, in 
which a fertilized ovum is implanted to grow to a 
child, is renewed every month. 

It is advisable in dealing with menstruation to 
152 



Physiological Cycles. 

describe it and its phenomena, firstly as they 
normally occur, and secondly as they occur when 
incompatible with proper health. The process of 
" being unwell " is scarcely a fair description of a 
normal physiological process, yet at the time of 
menstruation a woman is not her usual self, and it is 
a time when she tends to watch herself with a little 
anxiety to see that everything is right and proper: 

I mentioned in a previous chapter that many men 
have a definite physiological cycle. At the zenith 
of this cycle they feel well, active, hopeful and 
creative. There is potency in their acts and 
thoughts and general feeling. This is followed by 
a slow decline in power and the bottom of the cycle 
is indicated by a comparative loss of desire, a 
tendency to be irritable, and more or less definite 
depression, with lack of will and energy. This 
c)^cle, like that of a woman, may take about a month 
to complete itself. The cycle requires, perhaps, some 
skill in its detection, when occurring in men. On 
the other hand, a physiological cycle of monthly 
periodicity is, as seen in menstruation, common to 
all women in a normal condition of health. Its 
zenith of activity and zest for life is in the days that 
precede menstruation. With menstruation the fall 
begins, and the days that follow the cessation of the 
discharge are the days of depression. A woman, 
therefore, physiologically feels at her best before the 
menses come on, and with their onset and upon the 
days following tends to feel depression and to take a 
less bright and hopeful view of matters. This shows 
that menstruation is either itself a lowering function, 
or the evidence of a general lowering of the tone of 

153 



The Healthy Marriage. 

the body. Consequently, though menstruation is a 
normal physiological process, a woman is correct in 
speaking of herseli as " unwell " or " poorly " at such 
a time. She is certainly not in her full health, and 
though in the majority of cases she is not more than 
slightly indisposed and does not have to alter the 
normal course of her life, still a slight exaggeration 
of this indisposition is readily felt. Again, let us 
suppose that the woman at the zenith of her monthly 
cycle, i.e., the days preceding menstruation, is well 
without being in full and blooming health, this is 
followed by a period in which she is definitely 
unwell, and is unwise and even unable to attempt to 
do things which she can do when she is well. 
Further, if she is in feeble health or an actual invalid, 
it is at the period of depression in the month, the 
period of menstruation and the few days following, 
when her sickness, both in its manifestations and in 
the feelings of weakness or pain it causes her, will 
be at its worst. This period is, as it were, the 
touchstone of a woman's health, therefore it is wise 
for her to treat it with respect, and to make herself 
acquainted with such signs as point to abnormalities 
in its course. I shall, therefore, describe menstrua- 
tion detail by detail, so as to enable a woman to 
judge by her knowledge as well as by her feelings, 
when her menstruation is normal and when she 
would be wise to take extra care or to send for a 
medical man. 

Menstruation is shown primarily by a discharge of 
blood and mucus and debris from the womb. Under 
normal circumstances this discharge is red in colour 
owing to the presence of the blood, and sticky owing 

154 



The Character of the Flow. 

to the presence of the mucus. Sometimes it seems to 
be pure blood without any mucus. When there is an 
excess of mucus it makes the discharge lighter in 
colour, and this mucus is in excess sometimes when 
the woman suffers from whites. The pale colour of 
the discharge does not matter in itself but the whites 
do, and they are not only a sign of ill-health, either 
local or general, but are also sufficiently disagreeable 
to a woman to make her consult a doctor. Certainly 
she should do so if she have the whites. If the 
doctor cure her, then the menstrual fluid will 
become normal again. In other women, who do not 
suffer from the whites, the menstrual fluid is some- 
times pale. This pallor is due to the small quantity 
of blood lost and is of no moment, for such women 
are "often quite well in their general and local health. 
On the other hand, the menstrual fluid may not only 
be its usual red colour, but instead of the blood being 
fluid it may contain small clots. Such clots in the 
menstrual fluid not infrequently cause pain, for the 
womb has difficulty in squeezing them out of its 
cavity through the neck into the vagina or sheath. 
Clots occur in the menstrual fluid only when the 
amount of blood lost is excessive. They are not 
normal, and I would, therefore, strongly advise my 
readers, in the event of their noticing clots, to 
consult their medical men. They need not frighten 
themselves when they see clots, they need not think 
they have got some horrible disease. Very simple 
causes produce such clots. Nevertheless they should 
consult their doctor if they see them. 

The quantity of the fluid passed is important. 
Beginning gradually, the flow, if lasting the average 

155 



The Healthy Marriage. 

period of four days, reaches its maximum about the 
second day and then declines. The amount is as a 
rule not more than requires three napkins in the 
twenty-four hours. More than this should be 
considered abnormal by my readers, unless the 
weather is exceptionally hot.. For hot weather has a 
marked effect upon the menstrual flow, as Anglo- 
Indian women know. The amount of the flow in hot 
countries may be twice or three times as great as it 
is in England, and even become a serious drain upon 
a woman's health, making her anaemic, and, in her 
condition of poor blood, making her liable to diseases 
or disorders that otherwise would not affect her. 
But in England there is no need for a woman to 
worry, if the discharge does not require more than 
three napkins a day, unless, of course, she feels 
definitely ill. 

Excess in the amount of the flow has a great 
number of causes, and, unless it seems purely a 
temporary phenomenon, a woman is well advised 
to seek her doctor. Trivial causes may lead to 
excess. Hot weather is one such cause, a too free 
indulgence in intercourse is another such cause, a 
too free indulgence in wine a like cause, and constipa- 
tion may even have this effect. But if such con- 
ditions have not been present and yet there is excess 
of discharge, a woman should certainly ask the 
advice of her medical man. In these cases especially 
I would warn my readers against patent medicines 
and quack cures advertised in papers. Patent 
medicines for common complaints such as colds, 
headaches, indigestion or constipation are not very 
risky, for such common indispositions will, as a rule, 

156 



Patent Remedies. 

get well of themselves. But in the indispositions 
that affect the womb and the important organs 
related to it, women are very unwise to entrust 
themselves to advertised remedies and quacks. Yet 
much makes them tend to do so. Many women, and 
often the most self-sacrificing of women, are 
peculiarly economical when they themselves are 
concerned, and in the matter of their own health are 
penny wise and pound foolish. Another reason for 
their not going to their doctors is the very natural 
modesty they feel and a distaste for going into such 
matters even before a medical man, and so they hope 
to snatch a cure secretly. Lastly, women are by 
nature credulous, an excellent provision provided 
they do not fall into the hands of the unscrupulous, 
who trade upon their credulity. The true quack is 
always unscrupulous. It is part of the definition of 
him. Therefore in all matters of private health, let 
my readers carefully avoid quacks and advertised 
remedies. The benefit that these remedies effect is 
nearly always strictly limited to the dispensers of 
them. The patient, if really ill, merely postpones 
the doctor's visit, and, if only temporarily indisposed, 
will get well without quacks. 

Scanty flow at the menstrual period may be a 
temporary phenomenon, and it may be the usual 
habit of a woman. Healthy country women, who 
live on a plain diet and take plenty of exercise or 
work in the fields, have a moderate flow compared 
to that of the delicate women of the cities, who live 
sedentary lives and have a luxurious, spiced and 
tasty diet. Climate affects menstruation, as has 
been said, and in cold weather the flow becomes 

157 



The Healthy Marriage. 

scanty, and in the northern lands of the world is said 
to be almost absent during extreme cold weather. So 
also moderation or absence of intercourse makes the 
flow scanty and absence of stimulation in the form of 
novels, plays and conversation about love and 
marriage. Women who put away all thought of 
sex, as do nuns, when once they have conquered and 
suppressed their desires, often are only troubled by 
a little show, which comes and goes in the space of 
twenty-four hours. Similarly fright and anxiety, 
especially if about a subject related to sex, may 
cause a scanty flow or complete cessation of menstru- 
ation. But scanty flow appearing in a woman who 
has hitherto lost a normal quantity, may point to a 
more serious condition than a mere temporary 
derangement or some psychological upset. There 
are various illnesses and ill-conditions accompanied 
by scanty flow, just as there are others that are 
accompanied by increased flow. A very scanty 
flow from the time of onset of puberty onwards may 
be due to lack of proper development of the womb, 
and, therefore, should this be the case, a doctor 
should be consulted, to whose discretion the nature 
of the enquiry needed must be left. It is an unusual 
cause, but it is a possibility, and in view of the vital 
issues of life's happiness or unhappiness that may 
depend upon it, it is one never to be ignored. For 
I will repeat here, what indeed I would like to repeat 
in each chapter, that an altogether unexpected 
amount of the trouble that vexes people's lives has 
a physiological basis. The temper is the transcript 
of the body. Again and again amongst my patients 
and friends I have found a mountain of complaint, 

158 



Bodily Reasons. 

temper and unhappiness piled up upon some simple 
bodily defect or deprivation. I have often wished 
there was such a terse saying in the world comparable 
to cherchez la femme, referring to the body. Mens 
sana in corpore sano is not sufficiently pointed to 
persuade people to discover in themselves their 
querulousness against others and to look to the body 
first, foremost and always, when they wish for an 
understanding of their feelings and a gloomy outlook 
upon the world. But, when the body is ignored as 
when a sexually ill- developed woman or man 
marries, then every phenomenon of the lives of both 
mates becomes dyed in complaint and rendered 
empty of meaning to them because the fundamental 
basis of life is gravely at fault, The only issue for 
such a marriage is that which the law recognizes in 
extreme cases, namely, that it should be brought to 
an end. 

Fortunately for the happiness of women, this 
especial cause of scanty flow is very rare. A far 
more common cause in the early years of adult 
life, whether 'n the married or unmarried, is anaemia, 
the green sickness or chlorosis of young women. 
Such young women are pale with a waxy complexion, 
which has just a hint of green in it. They are not 
infrequently fat but obviously unhealthy, getting 
breathless quickly with exertion and being subject 
to faintness, indigestion and constipation. Anaemia 
in most cases is a disease, which with time and skill 
is readily cured. Other sicknesses, which cause 
scanty flow, are some forms of chronic heart disease, 
diabetes, consumption, etc., diseases which give 
more obvious signs of their presence than scanty or 

159 



The Healthy Marriage. 

absent menstruation. Very fat women have as a 
rule a scanty flow, great disposition to sterility and 
an early menopause. During acute fevers, such as 
typhoid or small-pox the flow also ceases, but 
reappears with or after convalescence. There is a 
further condition, which leads to a partial or com- 
plete cessation of menstruation in early life. This 
is an excessive shrinkage of the womb following 
childbirth. It is very rare. If it occurs then a 
true change of life follows the childbirth. 

Sudden and unexpected onset of the menstrual 
flow with free bleeding is always a reason for a 
medical man, unless there is some strong emotional 
reason for it, such, for instance, as marriage, which 
frequently brings on menstruation in the bride, 
though the marriage has been carefully arranged so 
as to occur between the menstruations. Sudden 
cessation of the flow, when once begun, is also 
usually due to some great emotion of joy or grief, 
though it may result from the shock of cold. Some- 
times such a sudden cessation will give a woman 
pain, a sense of fulness in the head and pelvis, 
nausea and other signs of general debility. The best 
domestic treatment is to take either a hot foot-bath 
or a warm bath and to get quickly to bed. Either 
the flow will reappear or the unpleasant symptoms 
will cease. Anyhow, the cause of the cessation of the 
flow is usually more important than the cessation 
itself, which is only a secondary symptom. A warm 
bath and bed in themselves are an excellent treat- 
ment for shock, apart from the effect shock may have 
had upon the menstrual flow. 

Complete absence of menstruation is, of course, 
160 



Scanty and Excessive Flow. 

the common sign of pregnancy. Menstruation is 
usually absent during the suckling of a child. Its 
delay and eventual absence instead of periodic 
return is also the chief sign of the change of life. 
The relation of menstruation to these three impor- 
tant conditions, namely, pregnancy, suckling and 
change of life, will be discussed in the chapters 
describing these conditions. Summing up the 
question of the quantity of the menstrual flow, one 
can say that a scanty flow is, as a rule, not a matter 
of importance or urgency. Sudden and peculiar 
onset and an unusual amount of the flow are, on the 
other hand, conditions which a woman should never 
neglect. Unless she is sure it is due to one of the 
trivial causes, which were mentioned upon p. 156, 
she should always put herself in the hands of her 
medical man. If the flow is sudden in its onset and 
excessive in amount, then she must go to bed and 
send for her doctor without delay. Excess of the 
menstrual flow is, in a word, a condition which may 
be of no moment, but at the same time may be very 
serious in its meaning, and only a medical man can 
decide which of the two it is. 

The length of the menstrual period is generally 
closely connected with the amount A heavy flow 
means a longer period and vice versa. But this is 
not necessarily so. Blood may come away in a few 
hours in sufficient quantity to make a patient 
seriously weak and anaemic. Obviously the amount 
of blood lost is far more important than the time it 
takes to come away, and therefore, I do not advise 
a woman to pay much attention to the length of the 
flow. The average length of the flow is from five to 

H.M. l6l II 



The Healthy Marriage. 

six days. It may last for only a few hours ; on the 
other hand it may last for ten to fourteen days, but 
unless the flow is very slight and languid, one lasting 
over eight days should cause a woman to question 
her doctor, a piece of advice, which, however, 
requires qualification, as all mathematical advice 
does. By mathematical advice, I mean advice that 
directs people by figures, such as if a woman is 
unwell eight days, then it is normal, but if over eight, 
then it is abnormal. The fact is that every doctor 
comes across patients who are unwell for periods as 
long as ten days without any injury to themselves. 
It is not the figures that matter, it is not even the 
exact quantity lost that matters, for some women 
can endure a loss beneficially which might do harm 
to others. The thing chiefly to heed is the character. 
Now the character of the menstrual periods is its 
constancy. In each month the duration of the 
period is the same. Once a three, five, or eight-day 
period is established, it remains three, five, or eight 
days. Very hot weather makes the period longer, 
very cold makes it shorter. Normally, however, in 
England the periods show great constancy in over 
92 per cent, of women. Sometimes some irregularity 
supervenes owing to change of habit of life, climate, 
or some temporary illness, but regularity in the 
length of the period eventually reappears. Thus a 
woman accustomed to England, who goes to India 
or Burma, may find the length of the period and the 
loss of fluid both increased, but this increase itself 
becomes regular. So also when the menses reappear 
after childbirth, irregularity and unusual character 
may for a time exist. Variation without some such 

162 



Regularity of the Periods. 

cause, either in the length of the period or the quality 
of fluid lost, or in both together, is the chief feature 
of menstruation to which a woman should pay heed. 
She is scarcely likely to have anything wrong with 
her womb and adjacent organs without a change in 
the otherwise constant character of her periods. 
But any slight derangement or the beginning of 
more serious trouble will upset this constancy. 
Constancy, therefore, should be her chief guide as to 
her proper periodical health. 

Some seven to eight women ,n a hundred do, 
however, show a constancy only in irregularity, 
sometimes being unwell for three, sometimes for four, 
sometimes for five days, and so on, without their 
health suffering. The constancy of their irregularity 
is the feature which shows that the irregularity 
itself does not really matter. An irregularity which, 
at first watched by the doctor, continues for months, 
sometimes showing increased, sometimes decreased 
quantity lost, and which in no way affects a woman's 
usual health or character, obviously does not matter 
much, and I advise such a woman not to worry at 
all at her being different from others. There are in 
this world plenty of people, who have some such 
unusual physical character such as an habitually 
irregular pulse, bowel action, method of sleep and 
who are not any the worse for it. But such people 
are very apt to get worried about their abnormality 
and, Unfortunately, some doctors I trust uncon- 
sciously and all quacks help them to worry. 
These women consequently spend a great deal of 
time trying to be normal and like other people. But 
the fact is that they cannot be normal. Their 

163 



The Healthy Marriage. 

abnormality is, as it were, their own normality, and 
so much is this the case that observant doctors see 
patients, whose pulses, for instance, are irregular 
when they are well and actually become regular only 
when they are ill. Women, then, who are habitually 
irregular, have no reason at all to worry. It is just 
their natural habit to be irregular. 

As has been said, normally regularity in the length 
of the period is very notable. So, too, is regularity 
in the time that elapses between the menstrual 
periods. In most women this is regular, in some 
astonishingly so, menstruation beginning precisely 
at the same hour of the same day of each lunar 
month throughout the thirteen lunar months of 
the year. The interval between the menstruation 
is commonly twenty- eight days, sometimes it is 
twenty-one days, sometimes thirty days. Again, 
however, there is a small percentage of women in 
whom the intervals between the menstruations are 
habitually irregular. The chief importance of the 
regularity of the menstrual periods is that it enables a 
woman to tell when she is pregnant. Great anxiety 
about pregnancy may sometimes postpone the onset 
of menstruation, but the great majority of married 
women, if the menses are two or even one day late, 
are right when they suspect that they are pregnant. 

On the other hand, when women, habitually 
regular in the intervals between the menses, become 
irregular, and when this irregularity is combined 
with irregularity of the amount lost, then the doctor 
should be sought. There is, as all know, always a 
possible danger in the unfamiliar. To the regular, 
irregularity is a change, it is something unfamiliar. 

164 



Irregularity of the Periods. 

It may have some meaning of importance to health, 
it may mean nothing at all. A change of climate 
or style of life may bring it about on the one hand. 
On the other hand, such a dreadful disease as cancer 
may first show itself in this way, or some lesser 
disease like fibroid tumours of the womb may be 
developing. There may be some smaller cause like 
displacement of the womb or some changes in its 
lining membrane following upon a pregnancy or 
miscarriage. But whatsoever is the cause, the 
doctor is the one to decide about it, and so I would 
urge my readers, when such a change occurs, to 
consult their medical man. This visit is imperative 
if any unpleasant-smelling discharge comes from the 
front passage. The reason why this visit is so 
important is owing to the possibility of cancer. It 
is difficult to write upon the subject of cancer ; one 
feels one has to warn readers without frightening 
them. Nothing could be worse than for them to 
imagine that, when they become irregular, the 
reason of their irregularity is cancer. Such a wide- 
spread dread of the disease upon trivial grounds 
would be as bad for the health as the disease itself. 
And as a fact there are far commoner causes of 
irregularity than cancer. The irregularity- of the 
menses, which* occurs at the change of life and will 
be described in the chapter upon that subject, is, for 
instance, common to practically all women. It is 
only the seriousness of cancer and the supreme 
advantage of taking the disease as early as possible 
that makes one advise a woman who becomes 
irregular without obvious cause to go and see her 
doctor. 

165 



The Healthy Marriage. 

Such being the general character of menstruation, 
we will now enquire into what a woman feels when 
unwell. The condition of real health in menstrua- 
tion is one in which its presence is only detected 
by the loss of blood, which is unaccompanied by 
any other symptoms. This, however, is not usual 
amongst civilized women of cities. The majority 
of girls and women do actually feel unwell, as the 
term implies. They have a sense of heaviness or 
dragging feeling in the loins and pelvis. The legs 
feel heavy, as if they were tired by long standing or 
walking. They have slight headache and slight 
indigestion. They flush and get hot readily and 
their bowels may be loose, and their desire to pass 
water a frequent one. They have an uneasy feeling 
in the stomach, they have no appetite, they feel 
inclined to be sick. Sometimes they feel giddy, 
especially when they bend down, and their hearts 
throb and they have palpitations. They do not 
sleep so well as usual, they have itching and pricking 
in the breasts and private parts. They have also 
some change of character, they become irritable 
and moody, or else they indulge in unhappy or in 
sensual or romantic thoughts. They like to be 
alone and shun the society of others in whose 
company at other times they delight to be. 
Altogether, there is a loss of the vitality, which makes 
them unconscious of their physical functions and 
makes them view the world with delight. Their 
bodily vitality is depressed and their character and 
thought is also depressed. All these symptoms may 
be much more marked. Some unfortunate women 
suffer a great deal of pain at their menstrual periods. 

166 



Symptoms of the Menses. 

They suffer either from prolonged pain or definite 
cramp interrupted by interludes in which they are 
free from pain. The pain may be so bad as to 
compel a woman to take to her bed. Sometimes 
the pam begins a few hours before the onset of 
menstruation, and it may endure some hours after 
the flow has ceased. The pain makes them sick, 
and they have tenderness over the stomach or 
cramp. They have flatulence, diarrhoea, salivation, 
coated tongues, headache, neuralgia, and they get 
dark rings under their eyes. Their hearts beat 
more rapidly, they have palpitations or other signs 
of disturbed circulation, such as cold hands and 
feet, which they cannot get warm. They some- 
times have a temporary skin eruption accompanying 
menstruation, and, if they have chronic skin troubles, 
these become worse at the menses. Their urine is 
altered, being either clear and abundant or thick 
and cloudy, and they pass it more frequently. 
Sometimes they perspire freely, they flush readily, 
and rushes of blood to the head make them feel 
giddy and even inclined to faint. But, perhaps, 
the most striking effect of menstruation is the 
change of character it often effects during the 
menstrual period. A bright and happy woman at 
such a time may become mournful and morose, a 
chastely-minded woman may have erotic longings 
and feelings, a sweet-tempered woman may become 
irritable and petulant. Exaggeration of the nega- 
tive side of the normal character is usual. A 
determined, strong-minded or selfish woman may 
become even fierce at such a t : me, as some doctors 
and more husbands know only too well. Other wives 

167 



The Healthy Marriage. 

become so irritable that a monthly domestic quarrel 
may be anticipated to occur with regularity. Others 
feel very languid and disinclined to do anything. 
Others relapse into sentiment, others into tears. 
Striking evidence to the change in character or, 
rather, exaggeration of the negative side or Mr. Hyde 
of each character is shown in the remarkable 
association there is between the menstrual period and 
crime, and I trust in the general interest of the 
subject my readers will forgive me mentioning 
this strange association of the wickedness of the 
neurotic and ill-equipped opponents of society 
and the depressed vitality due to a physiology 
rendered faulty by the general divorce from natural 
conditions that reigns. Criminal women taken by 
the police have been found by doctors to be men- 
struating in the very great majority of cases at the 
time they committed their crimes. Suicide or 
attempted suicide is nearly always undertaken at 
the menstrual period. The pilfering in the fashion- 
able shops of Paris was found to be due commonly 
to fashionable ladies when menstruating. 

Some evidence has been brought forward, then, 
to show how greatly a woman's happiness and 
character depends upon her sexual physiology. I 
wish sometimes it were possible and seemly to 
illustrate this intimate connection more lucidly. 
The number of women whose ill-health or unhappy 
temperaments are due to faulty sexual physiology 
are at this day unnumbered. Our traditions no 
longer protect them. The paths upon which their 
lives are to run are no longer marked out by the 
wisdom of centuries indeed, in Europe we suffer 

168 



Mismanaged Human Nature. 

from centuries of unwisdom in these matters. Each 
woman is more or less given her freedom. She is 
told to direct herself. She is told to become 
educated. Yet in these vital matters of her health 
and happiness knowledge is shut from her. The 
modern world is in these vital matters too fearfully 
at fault. Such conventions, customs and ideas as 
are about a woman are far more likely to lead her 
into harmful ways of life than into healthy ones. 
Consequently, not only do hysteria, nerves and 
neurasthenia abound, but they increase. Lesser 
maladies are scarcely recognized as maladies at all. 
We become content to accept life on a lower level 
of happiness and fulfilment. We submit to that 
gnawing feeling of emptiness, which is, I think, the 
characteristic curse of our anti-physiological time. 
We bear, as well as we can, with each other's 
apparently causeless irritability. It is human nature 
we think. But I would declare boldly that it is 
not healthy human nature, but the exaggeration 
of the negative side of human nature. It is mis- 
managed human nature. The quarrels and irritation 
that happen in married homes ought not to be. 
The fear of marriage and the discontent with it 
ought not to be. The feminine outcry against men, 
largely justified at the present time, ought not to 
be. It is mismanaged physiology that is at the 
bottom of it all. It is not a complicated question, 
it is a simple one, but it requires a radical change 
in our lives and outlook to effect a cure. 

So also this suffering of women at menstruation 
ought not to be. It is not a healthy, natural 
phenomenon. It is, in the retributive justice of life, 

169 



The Healthy Marriage. 

a warning that the management of life itself is 
ill-done. 

But my readers may well declare that we cannot 
set the world right at present and, meanwhile, we 
suffer. What they want to know is how they shall 
live so as to avoid, as far as possible, the rather appal- 
ling catalogue of the troubles connected with mens- 
truation, or, if they are already afflicted, how they 
can mitigate their troubles or become wholly cured. 

It should be quite clear that the menstrual period 
is a period of lowered vitality. Clearly, also, if the 
original vitality or health is excellent, the lowering 
of it by menstruation cannot bring it to a very low 
level, whereas, if the ordinary vitality is only just 
that of health or of feeble health, then the lowering 
of it by menstruation will bring it to a level at 
which the effects of weakness will be very definitely 
felt. It is, therefore, all important that the ordinary 
vitality should be kept at a high level, that the 
lowering effect of menstruation will not be felt. In 
other words, a head that never aches and a stomach 
that never is disturbed during the non-menstruating 
part of the month are not likely to be made to ache 
badly or be badly nauseated by menstruation. 
Hence, an important rule for having painless arid 
healthy menstruations is to be healthy between 
menstruations. 

The rules of hygiene, then, laid down in the 
previous chapters should be carefully followed and 
by their means suffering at menstruation will be 
prevented, mitigated or cured. A woman who, 
between her periods, pays no regard to her health 
and uses up every fragment of vital energy she 

170 






Hygiene during the Menses. 

possesses, cannot wonder that she has to pay by 
suffering during her periods. But one who pays 
reasonable attention to her health without the 
meticulous fussiness of the nervous, and who a day 
or two before she is unwell is careful not to get 
overdone, meets the menstrual period with a stock 
of vitality which will keep her free from, or greatly 
mitigate her troubles. 

During the period when the menses are on a 
woman must pay extra heed to her health. I have 
known women dance, go horse-riding, or ride a 
bicycle during their menstrual periods, and I confess 
I have known some do these things without any 
obvious harm coming to them during the time I 
knew them. But such exercises seem to be against 
wisdom, and I would never advise any girl or woman 
to run these risks, though, had she experience of 
their harmlessness upon her side, I should feel it 
difficult to absolutely veto a wdman who wished 
to go to a dance during her period. Most women 
are more careful. They do not walk so far as usual 
and they rest more, and they are wise in this, for 
the measure of their vitality is less. They are 
drawing, as it were, on a smaller banking account 
of health during menstruation, and, therefore, they 
are wise to rest. It is not necessary, of course, for 
them to be on the sofa all day. This is carrying 
rest to extremes, and it is harmful in its effects. 
But it is a good rule to always lie down for an hour 
after lunch whilst menstruation is taking place, and 
to reduce one's total exercise by, at least, a half. 

Similarly with food, as has been seen, the men- 
strual period has a peculiar effect upon the stomach 

171 



The Healthy Marriage. 

and digestion, the capacity of proper digestion being 
reduced. A menstruating woman, even if experience 
shows her that she keeps a good appetite and 
digestion during her periods, is unwise to indulge 
in rich foods. She should make her diet more 
simple, with plenty of fresh meat, vegetables, 
stewed or fresh fruit and good bread, butter and 
milk, and not too many pastries, fancy dishes and 
entrees. She herself, however, knows what is rich 
and what is simple. Over-cooked, stringy meat is 
hard and indigestible, under-cooked, fibrous vege- 
tables are indigestible. Lightly-cooked fresh meat 
and well-cooked vegetables are digestible. Good 
bread is desirable. Only a little while ago a friend 
of mine overheard in a railway carriage two com- 
mercial travellers for flour and grain express their 
wonder that Londoners eat the flour that was given 
them. In the country and the north people were 
wiser, they said. I do not know how much there 
is in what they said, there might have been only 
jealousy, but at any rate, it shows the wisdom of 
getting good flour and bread. 

Women, sometimes, are advised by their friends 
to take alcohol in some form or other to keep their 
strength up when they are unwell. No advice 
could well be more dangerous. The menstrual 
periods are definite, recurring periods of depressed 
vitality, which occupy four to ten or more days 
every month. To recommend a woman to be in 
a state of artificial vitality by using alcohol as 
many as ten days every month is absurd advice. 
One might as well recommend anyone to beat a 
horse whenever it is tired, and so make it do the 

172 



Alcohol during the Menses. 

same distance as it would were it not tired. Such 
a principle, as everyone knows, would before long 
lead to the horse breaking down altogether. There 
is no reason why a woman accustomed to a little 
alcohol daily should leave off her usual amount 
when unwell, except she have congestive pelvic 
pain or congestive headache, in which case she 
should take no alcohol, strong tea or coffee at all. 
To make her menses a reason for taking more is 
to give her a reason for contracting a monthly habit. 
A little later and she wili begin to take alcohol 
whenever she feels tired or run down, whether she 
is unwell or not. Little by little she acquires the 
alcohol habit, and at last she becomes that degraded 
creature, the secret drinking woman with her horrid 
vice, her lying and deceit, and her unhappy descent 
to the lowest level of human character. On no 
account, then, should any woman even run the 
risk of this descent by taking alcohol to make her 
feel stronger when she is unwell. 

At one time doctors used to advise women, when 
unwell, not to take baths, but now they are not, 
as a rule, so stringent. I always in this matter 
bear in mind the depressed vitality. When any one 
is really tired, an extremely cold bath is bad, because 
the reactive glow and warmth does not occur, and 
an extremely hot bath, however pleasant, adds to 
the weariness and exhaustion. The same applies 
precisely with menstrual women. They are a little 
tired, a little below par. Therefore, quite cold or 
very hot baths are not good for them. But there 
is no reason why a woman should not enjoy a 
pleasant warm bath at these times, as long as she 

173 



The Healthy Marriage. 

only stays in it a minute or two, but no more. If 
she loses much she should omit this bath and 
content herself with a warm sponge. If, on the 
other hand, she is losing little, a hot sitz bath may 
aid the flow and relieve her, if she feel a fulness and a 
sense of the need of relief of her organs by a flow of 
blood. 

A woman, when she feels she is going to be unwell, 
is well advised to take a blue pill, a dose of salts, a 
glass of apenta water, some cascara sagrada/ or 
whatsoever domestic purge she uses. This is 
especially needful if she is constipated and her 
periods are painful. Constipation adds to the 
congested state of her womb and ovaries, and its 
relief will relieve her pain or discomfort. 

A woman should loosen her corset when she is 
unwell, and not let it compress the lower abdomen. 
Tight garters, always unwise articles of wear, are 
still more unwise when a woman is unwell. So, 
also, she should not have very warm clothing, 
especially over the thighs and lower abdomen, for 
such clothing would exaggerate the congestion of 
the pelvic organs, the womb and ovaries, which the 
menstrual flow is relieving. At night also, for the 
same reasons, she should not be too heavily covered. 
She should go to bed early and try and get an extra 
hour or so of sleep, just as if she were overtired. If 
she is a pianist or very fond of needlework, a woman 
should not pursue these arts too eagerly when she 
is unwell. In themselves they use up her vitality, 
and the prolonged sitting they entail tends to cause 
some congestion of the pelvic organs. A woman 
should not sing when she is unwell. Singing 

174 



Worry during the Menses. 

masters have told me it does harm to the voice, 
and I think I have noticed women are more liable 
to be hoarse at this time, if they sing or use their 
voices much. I am not sure, but such hoarseness 
would be in keeping with the general lowered 
vitality, and, consequently, for the tendency for 
outward circumstances, usually harmless, to affect 
the body unfavourably. 

The lowered vitality of a menstruating woman 
must certainly be shielded from things that would 
worry her. Ordinarily, such things might worry her 
a little, but when she is unwell, they may worry her 
so much that she is aggravatingly irritable to her 
husband, her children, her servants, and her friends, 
and a general ill-temper and discomfort prevails. 
She should not have a dinner party or other social 
function at such a time, or to have to pack up to 
change houses, go on a visit or to the seaside, or to 
go out to a party or be late at theatres or indulge in 
any other pleasure or business that is likely to try 
her. She must be treated as tired, and spared. 
But it is only a temporary invalidism. She must 
not make it a reason for accustoming others to do 
everything for her. 

Such is the general hygiene a woman should 
observe when she is unwell. 

When she has great pain it is better that she 
should send for a doctor. The pain may be due to 
many things, which only he can find out and set 
right. Great pain may be due to some local disease 
or displacement of the uterus or to the passage of 
clots or membrane, or to the mouth of the womb 
being too narrow, or to excessive sensitiveness. 

175 



The Healthy Marriage. 

These are all causes which only a doctor can diagnose 
properly and set right. The only measures of 
relief that a woman can adopt herself are to have 
her bowels open, to avoid all alcohol, strong tea 
and coffee and stimulating foods, to stay in bed 
and to put hot bottles or hot flannels to her lower 
abdomen. These measures will often give her 
considerable relief. Sometimes, however, the heat 
upon the abdomen adds to the pain. If so, the 
bottles had better be put at the woman's feet. A 
further measure, which will often bring her relief 
is general and abdominal massage. If a woman 
knows of a masseuse who will give her such massage 
for some half to three-quarters of an hour once a 
day, she is well advised to try massage as a means 
of relieving her of her pain. For her headache 
she will often find local massage particularly good, 
but as all her symptoms are due mainly to the 
change that has its chief effect in the womb, a 
relief of the womb's pain and congestion will 
indirectly lead to the bettering of other symptoms. 
For her special symptoms, massage, as has been 
said, will do her headache good. A handkerchief 
damped with eau de cologne and laid on the fore- 
head is a favourite and effectual remedy, and 
menthol will bring relief, especially to the headache 
that chiefly affects one side of the forehead. 
Phenacetin tabloids may also be taken to relieve 
headache, but not more than one to two a day of 
the five-grain tabloids should be taken without a 
doctor's orders, for phenacetin, like menstruation 
itself lowers the vitality. For the dyspepsia and 
heartburn, in addition to careful feeding and rest 



Medicine during Menses. 

upon the back after big meals, a simple digestive 
tonic should be taken. A chemist often has diges- 
tive tonics, consisting of some alkali and bitter 
infusion, which are suitable. Soda mint tabloids 
or liquorice drops are also useful and can do no harm. 
Patent medicines should be avoided by those who 
do not care to pay a very big price for a very small 
dose of some commonly used drugs, most patent 
medicines being of this kind. 

For irritability a woman will find bromides useful, 
and for sleeplessness, veronal, but she should not 
take these drugs without proper medical direction. 
Similarly, no vaginal douching should be under- 
taken without a doctor's orders. Personally, I am 
not in favour of douching except in certain local 
illnesses. The vagina knows well enough how to 
look after itself, and interference with it in the 
form of douching is unnecessary and may be harmful. 
A thorough washing of the outer parts is, of course, 
necessary, but I would certainly never recommend 
a woman to douche herself for health's sake on her 
own initiative. 

Vicarious menstruation is a name given to cases 
in which the menstruation being scanty, blood 
comes from some other organ of the body. Nose 
bleeding is the common form. It recurs monthly 
with scanty or even suppressed menstruation. It 
is very rare, but is interesting, and throws light on 
the general character of menstruation. Another 
form is seen in anaemic young women, who, instead 
of losing blood at the menses, merely have a white 
discharge. 

The whites is the name given to this white dis- 

H.M. 177 12 



The Healthy Marriage. 

charge from the vagina. It is a very common 
condition in married women, and especially in 
them who have had children. Their most common 
cause, in fact, is the injury of the parts by child-birth. 
A white discharge for a day or two sometimes 
follows the menses. Sometimes it continues for 
longer, sometimes it continues throughout each 
month and keeps the woman perpetually and 
annoy ingly damp. The whites also occur apart 
from menstruation, not being due to any womb 
trouble, but only to an inflamed vulva and vagina. 
They may then occur for a few days between the 
periods, and the woman herself may think no more 
of it than she would of a catarrh elsewhere. Or 
they may become persistent and annoy the patient 
by the dampness or even pain they cause her. 

Simple causes of the whites that a married woman 
may cure for herself are fatigue, too much standing, 
a chill, an excess of intercourse, intercourse of such 
a nature that her senses are excited but not satisfied, 
anaemia and constipation. The remedies for these 
conditions are obvious. For her anaemia she should 
take rest, good air, good, fresh food and six Blaud's 
pills every day. 

But if none of her simple remedies are of any avail 
and the discharge is profuse or continuous, or 
yellow in colour, or otherwise unpleasant, or it came 
on suddenly and unexpectedly, she will have to 
ask a doctor's advice. If with the whites she have 
peculiarity of menstruation, she should seek the 
doctor at once. There are a great number of 
different causes of the whites, most of which are 
curable without great trouble. 



CHAPTER XIV. 
Signs and Symptoms of Pregnancy. 

" Everything in the woman is a riddle, and everything in 
the woman hath a solution. It is called pregnancy." 

Nietzsche. 

IT is obviously a matter of considerable importance 
for a woman to know whether she is pregnant 
or not. Especially is this the case when the child 
to be born will be the first. The possession of a 
child must make the greatest difference to a woman. 
Usually it means a very great joy to her. I have 
known women when they have been told they were 
pregnant cry for sheer joy at the thought of it. 
I have known others to whom, unhappily, the news 
was the verdict of their guilt. But, whichsoever 
way it be, it is always a matter of the greatest 
moment. A woman who is already a mother 'is 
also anxious to know as early as possible whether 
she be with child. The fact may necessitate a 
considerable change in her mode of life and occupa- 
tions and many preparations thereto. At the least, 
it is well for her to know early, that she may take 
extra care of her health. Health during the carrying 
period is of great value, it is of great value to the 
child to be born. Scientists are not certain as to 
what is the effect of the carrying period upon the 
character and health of the child, for, indeed, the 
effects are beyond the proofs of science. Towards 

179 12-2 



The Healthy Marriage. 

that which is beyond its peculiar methods of proof, 
science is rightly or perhaps unduly sceptical. 
Certain is it that it is an old-established belief 
throughout the world that the condition of the 
woman during her carrying has a considerable 
influence upon the child to be born, so that its whole 
character and life may be affected. A gloomy, 
unhappy mother is thought to have a melancholy 
child, a nervous, irritable mother a nervous child, and 
so on. By the ordinary rules of heredity one might 
expect this, for such pregnant melancholy or 
irritability is probably an exacerbation of a character 
normally kept in control. But the belief is often 
more specific, and relates to actual occurrences 
during pregnancy. A pregnant woman, it is said, 
should not look upon anything deformed lest her 
child be deformed. The Greeks placed statues of 
beautiful youths in the chambers of their wives, that 
the child born to them might be beautiful. A preg- 
nant woman should not see anything monstrous, else 
there is fear that she will give birth to a monstrosity. 
A pregnant woman should be shielded from shock, 
lest her child be born with fear implanted in its heart. 
As has been said, to these beliefs science turns the 
ear of scepticism. They are old wives' fables, the 
scientists are wont to say. But, to my mind, in old 
wives' fables there is often more truth than is 
dreamed of in our philosophy, and I am often 
impressed with the fact that young men, coming 
from their hospitals armed against what they call 
credulity and superstition, as they become experi- 
enced practitioners, gradually come to pay heed to 
what they once held were idle tales. I have myself 

180 



Beautiful Surroundings and Pregnancy. 

come across cases in which the explanation that 
something happening to the carrying mother affected 
the child that is born to her does seem to be a 
feasible one. At any rate, the Greeks, with their 
practical attention to this belief, did produce children 
of exceptional beauty and gifts. I, therefore, think 
there is no time when a woman should pay so much 
heed to her toilet, her dress, her thought of beauty 
than at this time. There is a tendency for a woman, 
thinking of the disfigurements of pregnancy, to 
abandon for the time being her usual care. I would 
advise her not to do so. Let her attend well, not 
only to her health, but to those refinements and 
excellencies which should be added to health. Let 
her thought and care dwell upon the grace and 
beauty she can add to herself by her toilet. I think 
it well, also, that she should have bright and beauti- 
ful things about her. Gay flowers should adorn her 
sleeping and dwelling rooms. She should pay 
peculiar heed to the beauty of the arrangement of 
these rooms. They should not be crammed and 
overcrowded with possessions, but with things loved, 
properly disposed, that each may have its value. 
Similarly, she should guard herself against shocks, 
worries, excitements, many social entertainments, 
and such things as spoil serenity and provoke irrita- 
tion. Where Greeks and scientists differ, I confess, 
I would prefer to be upon the side of the Greeks. 

From this general point of view, as well as from 
the definite and decided point of view of health, 
it is important for a woman to know when she 
is pregnant. The signs and symptoms of preg- 
nancy are numerous. They are divided into the 

181 



The Healthy Marriage. 

probable and the certain, the certain being those 
given by the child itself and detected by the doctor. 
But the probable signs are sufficient in the great 
majority of cases to assure a woman, her friends and 
her medical attendant that she is going to have a child. 

A woman, sometimes, can tell the precise moment 
when she has conceived. I have known women who 
have already had children do this, and I have even 
known women do this who have not previously been 
pregnant, and events have* proved them to be right. 
Only in peculiar cases, however, are they right. 
The feeling of conception is one of those rare refine- 
ments of feeling not often felt, but certainly, some- 
times it is felt. 

A pregnant woman, however, does soon begin to 
note a feeling of change. In the earliest weeks she 
has a sensation of weakness, she feels shooting pains 
and itching in the breast, she finds she has to pass 
her water more frequently, and she feels a little 
inclined to be sick in the early morning. If she has 
had children before, these signs may scarcely be 
noticeable, but with the first child they are fairly 
definite, definite enough to suggest to a woman that 
some change has occurred in her physiology. 

But the decisive symptom is, of course, the 
cessation of menstruation. A married woman, 
regular in her periods, ceases to be unwell. Perhaps 
when she should be unwell, there is a slight show of 
blood, but it only appears on one instead of four or 
five days, and practically amounts to an absence of 
menstruation. Under such circumstances a married 
woman comes to the conclusion that she is in the 
family way, and she is nearly always right. 

182 



Cessation of the Menses. 

When a woman is irregular in her menstruation 
or when she has never menstruated properly for 
sometimes women of the latter class become pregnant 
then the matter is not so simple. Irregularity or 
defective menstruation is her habit, and to detect 
a change in irregularity is never simple. A woman 
may be very eager for a child and therefore be only 
too willing to interpret some irregularity as the 
evidence of the desired pregnancy. In the early 
forties, when the change of life is approaching, this 
is particularly likely to happen. She may be just 
married, a period when nervousness may interfere 
with and delay her normal menstruation. Perhaps 
she is anaemic and her general poverty of blood 
prevents her menstruating regularly and in the usual 
manner of women. Perhaps she has some internal 
disease of the heart or other organs that makes 
her body abnormal and therefore its physiology 
abnormal too. Under such circumstances tempo- 
rary absence of menstruation may mean nothing at 
all. Only when it is supported by other signs of 
pregnancy, such as changes in and enlargement of 
the breast, is it significant. In other cases, a sudden 
shock of joy or grief, an accident, the onset of an 
acute disease, a change of climate, are sufficient to 
cause a temporary cessation of the menses without 
the supposition occurring to a woman that she is 
pregnant. Moreover, it is possible for a woman to 
be pregnant and yet lose blood. She may have a 
miscarriage threatening or she may, owing to a 
certain very rare division of her womb into two, 
actually show a regular menstruation. But all 
these cases are exceptional, and when one is not 

183 



The Healthy Marriage. 

exceptional one should not be guided by the excep- 
tions. The rule is that when a married woman, 
menstruating in the usual way, ceases to menstruate, 
it is a sign that she is pregnant, and it is a very safe 
rule to follow. 

Seeing, however, that cessation of menstruation 
is not invariably a safe sign by which to be guided, 
it is fortunate that there are others. It takes more 
than a wheel to make an engine, and it takes more 
than one sign to assure a woman and a doctor that a 
condition is one of pregnancy. There are certain 
signs, which a doctor alone can discover. The signs 
and symptoms described in this chapter are those 
which a woman herself will notice. 

She will notice within the first two months of her 
pregnancy that not only does she have pricking and 
burning sensations in her breast, but that they are 
definitely getting larger. If she looks at them with 
the aid of a hand glass she will see that the veins are 
larger and bluer than before, and that the nipple 
area is darker and wider. The breasts themselves 
feel larger and firmer, with a knotty feel when 
squeezed and the nipple more assertive and promi- 
nent. If she squeeze her breast near the nipple in 
the third lunar month of pregnancy she may be 
able to squeeze out a little clear fluid. Sometimes 
it is possible to squeeze out a little clear fluid in a 
virgin, either at her menses or when for some reason 
her thoughts and desires are dwelling much upon 
marriage and childbirth. But this is very rarely 
so, and is one of the exceptions which can safely be 
ignored. All these signs augment as pregnancy 
advances. The breasts swell, the glands in them 

184 






Changes in the Breasts. 

which produce the milk feel more knotty, the veins 
over and between them become bluer and more 
tortuous and give a veined marble appearance to the 
skin. The nipple itself swells and is prominent and 
is sometimes crowned with branny scales of dried 
secretion. The secretion of the breast itself is more 
easily squeezed out and has some opaque white 
matter suspended in its clear fluid. The nipple 
area becomes darker and wider, in brunettes appear- 
ing almost black. In this dark area some ten to 
twenty tubercles appear, and around it in the fifth 
month there is a secondary area of mottled pig- 
mentation of the skin. 

The breast changes are, then, definite. One 
would think that they should form certain signs of 
pregnancy. But, unfortunately, they do not, for 
sometimes they actually occur in women who are 
not pregnant but produce them by sheer longing for 
a child, sometimes they are associated with other 
conditions of the womb. These other causes are, 
however, the exceptions by which it is foolish to be 
guided. The rule is for breast changes to be due to 
pregnancy ; once they have occurred owing to 
pregnancy their repetition with another pregnancy 
is not so marked, because they do not completely 
disappear between the pregnancies. Once a woman 
has had a child, and especially if she has suckled 
it, the breasts are always larger, the nipple area 
is always more pigmented than when she was 
a virgin, and as a rule fluid can be squeezed out. 
Consequently these breast signs are of greater value 
in pointing to pregnancy in a woman who has not 
had children than in one who has. In one who has 

185 



The Healthy Marriage. 

the signs are an augmentation of a previous con- 
dition ; in one who has not had children the signs 
are new and, therefore, far more important. Squeez- 
ing fluid out of the nipple is a nearly certain sign of 
pregnancy in a young married woman who has 
ceased to menstruate. The enlargement of the 
breasts and veins and the increased pigmentation 
are also likely signs. The secondary pigmentation 
that begins in the fifth lunar month is an almost 
certain sign of pregnancy. 

One of the striking associations of the female body 
is that which lies between the womb and the stomach. 
Let the womb be disturbed or at fault in any way 
and it is very likely to communicate its troubles to 
the stomach. This is well seen in the early months 
of pregnancy, in the well-known morning sickness 
of pregnancy, from which at least two-thirds of all 
pregnant women suffer. Why it should be in the 
morning chiefly I do not know, except that the 
early changes of pregnancy give certain strange 
products to the blood and these collect more in the 
night than in the day, when active movement helps 
their excretion. Other substances in the blood, such 
as those that collect in topers, are wont to cause 
morning sickness, and morning headache and nausea 
are well-known results of bad air, indigestion, etc. 

This morning sickness or feeling of sickness shows 
itself usually in the first fortnight of pregnancy and 
disappears at the end of the fourth lunar month. 
A woman wakes up in the morning, and as soon as 
she moves to get up the feeling of sickness comes 
over her. She gets up quickly, is sick, and then 
feels relieved. She may not be troubled again until 

186 



Sickness and Nausea. 

the next morning, passing through the twenty-four 
hours with easy feeling and unimpaired appetite. 
Such is the sickness, which is so unique in its 
character that it has received the term of morning 
sickness. Often, however, the disturbance of the 
womb upsets the stomach more than this. Definite 
indigestion occurs, and to the sickness a definite 
nausea, sometimes accompanied by headache, is 
added. A woman feels a positive dislike to her 
breakfast, nausea taking the place of appetite. Nor 
are her troubles confined to the morning. Heart- 
burn and flatulence may affect her. She may be 
sick at other times of the day. She may be sick 
before going to bed, and not be sick in the morning 
at all. She may be sick soon after her meals. She 
may also have a loathing for food, and feel that she 
can only satisfy her appetite by excursions into 
unfamiliar realms of diet. The familiar food 
awakens nausea in her, and, with her change of 
state, she feels a craving for a change of diet. 
Pickles, curries, spiced dishes appeal to her. She 
has need of exciting the curiosity of her jaded 
stomach with strange or aggressive foods. Some- 
times her nausea, indigestion and sickness cause her 
real suffering ; they may endure throughout preg- 
nancy and only be relieved by the birth of the child. 
Naturally, this continued sickness makes her thin. 
Her face gets pinched, it often gets disagreeably 
stained by pigmentation or rashes of the skin, and 
her arms and legs become very thin. In such .a 
case a woman should always consult her doctor. 
She is wise to do so always at the beginning of 
pregnancy. If it is her first child she should always 



The Healthy Marriage. 

do so. She wants a doctor's advice and she wants 
his friendship. She likes to know that the man 
who later will attend to her in childbirth is not a 
complete stranger. But if her sickness and indi- 
gestion is troublesome she should always go to a 
doctor. By some simple treatment he may set her 
right and save her months of discomfort and suffer- 
ing. For though morning sickness cannot, and need 
not, be stopped (a cup of tea or coffee and a piece 
of toast before rising is a good remedy), nausea, 
indigestion and frequent sickness at odd times 
should be stopped. As regards the proper diet, each 
case has to be individually directed. A simple diet 
has much to recommend it, but I have sometimes 
found the caprice and peculiar tastes of a woman 
at this time a good guide to the food that suits her. 
Whatever food she takes she will find herself greatly 
benefited by regulating her bowels. Constipation, 
to which pregnant women are liable, always makes 
the nausea worse, and is often its only cause. To 
take four tumblers of hot water a day is an admirable 
rule for a pregnant woman. It is as good for 
her as taking the waters at a spa would be, if she 
also take a daily bath and exercise. If she have 
heartburn, some gentian and soda mixture is a good 
one for her, and can usually be procured from a 
chemist. 

Not all women, as has been said, have this morn- 
ing sickness when they are pregnant. But when 
morning sickness occurs without cause in a married 
woman, and is accompanied by a cessation of 
menstruation and by breast changes, the probability 
that she is pregnant is very great. None of these 

188 



Pigmentary Changes. 

signs nor their combination are certain indications 
of pregnancy, but if they occur in a woman, other- 
wise well and normal in her character and feeling, 
they are practically certain signs that she is pregnant. 

The frequency with which a woman desires to 
pass her water in the first three to four months of 
pregnancy is annoying, and sometimes makes her 
get out of bed several times in the night. Its 
presence supports the other signs of pregnancy, but 
alone, it would be of little or no significance. This 
symptom leaves a woman after the fourth month, 
though it may trouble her again in the last week of 
pregnancy. A homely remedy for this is half a 
teaspoonful of spirits of nitre taken in a wineglass 
of water upon retiring to bed. 

A general increase of pigmentation occurs in 
pregnancy, and is especially marked in brunettes. 
Where pigmentation normally occurs, there it 
deepens, and pigmentation often occurs where it 
normally is absent. Patches of pigment appear 
upon the trunk and limbs, round the eyes, upon the 
forehead and over the nose. The pigment on the 
face, if marked, is wont to take a butterfly shape, 
and is then called the pregnancy mark. It is most 
notable in the later months. Fortunately, after 
childbirth it disappears. It is apt to recur at a 
further pregnancy, for what occurs in one pregnancy 
is apt to occur in another. The personality and 
constitution of the woman affects the pregnancy, 
and the personality and constitution is the same in 
the different pregnancies. There is no remedy for 
this pigmentation, but certainly a woman who 
desires to avoid it and all women do should 

189 



The Healthy Marriage. 

make a point of keeping the bowels open daily and 
drinking plenty of fresh water. 

The certain signs of pregnancy are those due, 
actually, to the child itself. They are detected by 
the doctor. At the end of the fifth lunar month 
he may actually hear the child's heart beat and 
later, of course, he hears it with ease in nearly all 
cases. Only one sign, when frequently and power- 
fully felt by the woman, can scarcely be mistaken 
by her, namely, the definite kicks of the child against 
the wall of the womb. When the first movements 
of the child are felt by the mother, the sensations 
are known as quickening. They are exceedingly 
faint. Women say they feel a peculiar fluttering 
sensation, usually in the eighteenth week of preg- 
nancy. Some women seem sure of the time when 
they quicken, others are not sure, others mistake 
the movement of flatulence in the bowel for quicken- 
ing. The quickening sensations come on several 
times a day. They gradually develop to definite 
and decided movements, and in the last months of 
pregnancy the kicks of the child leave no doubt of the 
child's presence in the womb. It is difficult to say as 
to how great a proof of pregnancy quickening may be 
regarded. The evidence depends so much upon the 
woman herself. If she has already felt the sensation 
in one pregnancy, she will probably recognize it in 
another. If, on the other hand, she desires a child, 
she may mistake flatulence or other internal move- 
ment for quickening. She may even mistake such 
movements for quickening when she is not in the 
family way at all. The elderly, sterile women, 
who, out of great desire to have a child, imagine 

190 



Spurious Pregnancy. 

they are pregnant, are very positive about quicken- 
ing. These cases I have described in the chapter 
upon the change of life. Such women may have all 
the signs of pregnancy, except those undoubtedly 
due to the child. They may have cessation of the 
menses, morning sickness, breast changes, enlarge- 
ment of the stomach, they may apparently go to 
full time and then fall into a spurious form of labour 
and give birth to bitter disappointment only. They 
constitute some of the most remarkable instances 
of the wonderful imitative powers of hysteria. 

Enlargement of the abdomen is, of course, a well- 
marked sign of pregnancy, but it is not an infallible 
sign, for the abdomen may enlarge for other reasons 
than pregnancy. Fat and flatus, especially in the 
hysterical women just mentioned, and some tumours 
cause the abdomen to enlarge in much the same way 
as pregnancy does. But there are means of dis- 
tinction. Fat, for instance, is soft and podgy to the 
touch, whereas the enlargement due to pregnancy 
is firm. The enlargement due to pregnancy is 
gradual and progressive, that due to fat or tumours 
does not show the same steady growth. The 
enlargement due to pregnancy in the last months 
flattens out the navel and causes it to actually bulge 
a little. Fat never does this. The navel dips in as 
usual with fat. By this distinction a woman could 
always tell whether she were with child or was 
suffering from a quick deposit of fat. She would 
save herself against a mistake which in the end 
might be one of shame and unhappiness. With 
pregnancy the lower abdomen shows the first sign of 
swelling at about the sixteenth week. The swelling 

191 



The Healthy Marriage. 

increases, its height at the twenty-fourth week being 
on the level of the navel. At the thirty-sixth week 
the swelling is as high as it can be, being up to the 
ribs. In the last weeks the womb drops a little and 
makes a little free space centrally immediately below 
the lower end of the breast bone. So great is the 
swelling in the last months that the tense skin of the 
lower half of the abdomen shows evidence of stretch- 
ing in scattered purple or pink coloured patches, 
which after the child is born are still visible, though 
the colour changes to bluish white. The appearance 
of these patches in the skin have been aptly com- 
pared to a mackerel sky. They are, however, not 
confined to pregnancy, but may occur when there is 
a quick deposition of abdominal fat. Such are the 
signs and symptoms peculiar to pregnancy. The 
ones upon which a woman herself not hitherto 
pregnant may rely in concluding that she is pregnant, 
are the cessation of menstruation, with morning 
sickness and changes in her breasts. These are in 
most cases conclusive by the end of the third month, 
and these conclusions are supported from the fourth 
month onwards by the gradual swelling of the 
abdomen. If she wishes to be quite sure she should 
consult a doctor. He is, as a rule, able to give a 
fairly confident opinion in the third lunar month of 
pregnancy and a quite certain one in the sixth month. 
In addition to these signs and symptoms, there are 
other conditions of pregnancy, which are not 
uncommon, but which are not nearly common or 
specific enough to have any value from the point of 
view of diagnosis. Such are nervous changes, 
irritability, lethargy, varicose veins, piles, constipa- 

192 



Other Symptoms. 

tion, headache, toothache, salivation, skin eruptions, 
the whites, pruritus, cramps, breathlessness, back- 
ache, and the upset of the digestion and appetite, 
which we have already considered. The other 
symptoms we will now take in detail and their 
treatment. They make another formidable list, but 
as a fact, a fact probably many of my readers know, 
pregnancy often improves the health instead of 
diminishing it. In women who lead healthy 
married lives pregnancy produces a bloom, which is 
quite definite and gives to its possessors an added 
beauty. It cannot be too frequently repeated that 
pregnancy is a natural condition, and as such should 
be passed through without trouble. The constant 
aim of nature, whether in plant or animal life, is 
structural and physiological perfection. Nature 
does not, therefore, punish any living being for 
enduring a natural process that is a part of its life. 
Pregnancy should not be a serious matter, and is not 
a serious matter amongst the women of more simple 
peoples, whose civilization is based more firmly on 
the physiological principles which govern all such as 
bear offspring. It is, of course, impossible for the 
modern woman to reach, the healthy level of her 
hardier sister of distant lands. But the nearer she 
is to that level, and the nearer her ancestors were, 
the less likely is pregnancy to trouble her. If she 
come from healthy stock and lead a healthy married 
life, then the list of common accompaniments of 
pregnancy above given will not interest her. They 
will not govern her pregnancy. Such quite healthy 
women are not frequently to be found, but they are 
to be found, and when found they restore one's faith 
H.M. 193 i 3 



The Healthy Marriage. 

in the great gift of superlative health which nature 
or natural laws desire and can provide for women 
and men. In the meanwhile we must severally con- 
sider these common accompaniments of pregnancy. 

Nervous changes are common in pregnancy, when 
the woman herself is of a nervous disposition. If 
the pregnancy reduces her state of health, if the 
frequent micturition disturbs her sleep and the 
sickness and nausea her nourishment, then the 
nervousness that is normally hers is more marked 
than usual. The fear of childbirth may also alarm 
her. Strange longings may possess her. She may 
have attacks of dizziness. She may be quite unduly 
frightened at little alarms, which normally she would 
not notice. To treat herself I would advise her to 
read the chapter on the Hygiene of Marriage and 
that on Neurosis. Here I may mention that there 
is no harm in moderate intercourse during the 
pregnant period, and it in itself will often help to 
disperse her nervousness. As other remedies, she 
should attend to the ordinary laws of health, taking 
exercise, keeping her bowels free, avoiding exhaus- 
tion and excitement. By strengthening her health 
she strengthens her nerves. 

Irritability is also a part of the nervous change 
that sometimes ensues in pregnancy. It is chiefly 
due to diminished health and to the conditions 
mentioned in the chapter on Neurosis. When 
feeling weak and yet having the usual demands made 
upon her, a woman feels that she cannot do what 
she wishes to do properly, and she becomes irritable 
towards those who make demands upon her. She 
should, therefore, rest more and take some good 

194 



Irritability, Lethargy. 

tonic such as Eastern's Syrup, which she can procure 
at any chemist. Here, again, it is important for her 
to have her bowels opened daily, and abundant fresh 
air and sunlight will do her good. If she feels very 
restless, especially in the evening, a short walk before 
going to bed will benefit her. It is often pleasant 
for her to walk in the evening in the later months of 
pregnancy, for the darkness shields her from inquisi- 
tive eyes. If her irritability and restlessness are very 
troublesome a warm bath will often stop them. 
Half an hour of general massage, if she can afford it, 
is also very soothing. 

Lethargy is a trying condition that troubles some 
pregnant women. It is chiefly due to dyspepsia. 
Often when she is lethargic, tends to sleep heavily, 
and feels fit for nothing when she wakes, it means 
that she is eating too much. Some pregnant women 
eat a great deal too much in order, as they suppose, 
to keep their strength up, and so they overtax their 
digestive system and become heavy with too much 
food. Therefore, the remedy for lethargy is to eat 
less, to take more exercise, and occasionally to take a 
blue pill to clear the system. 

Varicose veins, the big dilated veins of the lower 
limbs, are sometimes one of the troubles of a preg- 
nant woman especially in the later months. They 
make her feet swell and her legs so heavy that she 
cannot walk much. Nor should she walk much, and 
an excellent substitute for exercise and a treatment 
which is particularly good for the varicose veins is 
massage. I recommend it to my reader very highly. 
In addition to massage, she should rest during the 
day with her feet raised above the level of her head 
I 195 '3-' 



The Healthy Marriage. 

to empty the large veins of their blood. When she 
is about by day her legs should be bandaged, 
preferably with Martin's elastic bandages. These 
her doctor will put on for her the first time, and 
show her how to do it herself. 

Piles are often a great nuisance to a woman in the 
later months of pregnancy. She must treat them 
by temporary methods, for an operation for them at 
such a time would be out of the question. For their 
treatment a gentle daily action of the bowels is 
the best remedy. They are much aggravated by 
constipation or by strong purges. After the bowels 
have been opened a woman with piles should lie on 
her back for half an hour. Still better is it for her 
to have the bowels open at night, so that she can go 
to bed immediately afterwards. If the piles are 
very painful and tend to bleed, she should bathe 
them three times a day with cold water or a decoc- 
tion of poppy heads made by boiling four poppy 
heads in two pints of water for fifteen minutes. 
Gall ointment or Pond's Extract may also be applied 
to the piles after the bowels have been opened. 
Another simple remedy is to pour hot water into the 
chamber before the bowels are opened. The steam 
arising soothes the pain and discomfort. 

Constipation, which frequently affects pregnant 
women, is also the cause of many of their discomforts. 
Its effects are far reaching. Headache, nausea, 
depression, irritability, insomnia, loss of appetite 
may all be due to constipation. Pregnancy is a 
period when the growing child's waste products pass 
into the mother's blood. Small though the child is, 
its growth is active and swift. These waste pro- 

196 



Defective Elimination. 

ducts, therefore, are a notable adjunct to the 
mother's system. Consequently defective elimina- 
tion through constipation has results during preg- 
nancy which it would not have at other times. 
Symptoms of poisoning readily arise in pregnant 
women who are constipated. The headache, nausea, 
etc., just mentioned are all symptoms of poisoning. 
Furthermore, an extra strain is thrown upon the 
kidneys by constipation, and this is above all to be 
avoided, for the waste products of the child are 
already a sufficient strain to the kidneys. If a 
pregnant woman is lethargic and constipated, not 
infrequently her water becomes thick and scanty. 
The kidneys become affected and the waste products, 
gradually accumulating in the body, may in excep- 
tional cases actually lead to fits of a serious nature. 
This will show how extremely important it is for a 
pregnant woman to avoid constipation. Indeed, if I 
were allowed only to give three directions to a 
pregnant woman I would tell her to keep her bowels 
open, to drink freely of fresh water, and to take daily 
exercise, all with the object of keeping the body free 
from accumulating poison. If she Only bears in 
mind these three directions and forgets the others she 
will, nevertheless, stave off most, if not all, of the 
unpleasant symptoms of pregnancy, and she will 
also avoid the rare danger of being seized with fits 
owing to her system being thoroughly poisoned. 

It is not only by taking medicine that a pregnant 
woman should avoid constipation. Indeed, medicine 
should be her last resort and not her first. There are 
many foods, which, in addition to their nutritive 
effect, have the advantage of aiding the action of the 

197 



The Healthy Marriage. 

bowels. These are usually to be found upon the 
breakfast table. They are porridge of various kinds, 
brown or oatmeal bread, jams, honey, marmalade, 
golden or maple syrup, cocoa or chocolate, fresh 
fruits, such as oranges, plums, pears, apples and 
grapes, or dried fruits, such as prunes, figs and raisins. 
A pregnant woman should, therefore, make a point 
of having these foods in her dietary. There are 
other foods which have a similar beneficial effect. 
Such are fresh green vegetables, many farinaceous 
foods, stewed prunes, apples, pears, or figs, and fresh 
salads with oil and vinegar. These, too, a woman 
should add to her dietary and make a point of eating 
of them in preference to a free consumption of white 
bread and meat. 

Next to the foods, an abundant drinking of water 
is a good means of keeping the bowels open and the 
body free of poison by causing a woman to pass her 
water freely, which she should do. She should take 
a full tumbler of water before breakfast. It does 
not matter if it is hot or cold. The chief point is the 
liquid. 

A careful observance of daily exercise is also a 
means of staving off constipation. Towards the end 
of her pregnancy a woman does not like to appear in 
public. Some women like to go into the country at 
this time, for they can walk in the country without 
being observed. They are wise to go into the 
country, for it is quiet and healthy compared to the 
town. But if they stay in the town, they can 
always walk in the evening, when it is dark, and 
they should make a point of doing so. 

Regularity is another aid. By going to the closet 
198 



Remedies for Constipation. 

every morning a woman will get into a regular habit. 
Otherwise she is sure now and then to become 
constipated. 

If these measures fail and a woman becomes 
constipated in spite of them, then she must resort to 
medical means. She should avoid powerful aperients 
and only make use of the simpler ones. She will 
probably have one that is her favourite and will use 
that. Her choice will be made from such simple 
aperients as cascara sagrada, syrup of figs, Hunyadi 
or Apenta water, magnesia, epsom salts, seidlitz 
powder, confection of senna, etc. Sometimes she 
will find these are not properly effectual. She should 
then give herself an enema of a pint of soap-and- 
water with a Higginson's syringe, or a tablespoonful 
of glycerine with a small glass syringe in addition to 
taking the aperient. For obstinate constipation 
abdominal massage is valuable. If all these remedies 
fail, as they may do in exceptional cases, she will 
have to consult her doctor. 

When a pregnant woman suffers much, or even a 
little, from headache, and headache is not an unusual 
complaint of hers, it commonly means that the 
poisons accumulating in the body are not properly 
excreted. If, therefore, she follows out the rules 
just given it is probable that she will not suffer from 
or will get rid of her headaches. Anyhow, I would 
advise her against taking headache powders without 
her doctor's advice, and certainly she should not 
take the patent headache powders, which are weak, 
editions of medical powders and very much more 
expensive. Phenacetin or aspirin tabloids are not 
likely to do any harm, if the directions on the bottle 

199 



The Healthy Marriage. 

are followed, and they relieve headache. But it is 
much better to prevent headache altogether, and 
this can be done by attention to the rules given for 
constipation, unless there is some condition present 
which requires a doctor's treatment. 

Toothache is sometimes troublesome in pregnancy, 
for pregnancy often has a bad effect upon the teeth. 
If the teeth are found to be in a bad condition at the 
beginning of pregnancy, a woman should go to a 
dentist and have her teeth set right in time. She 
should not, however, have her teeth pulled or gas 
administered. In the later months it is better for 
her to use palliative methods if she has toothache. 
The simplest of these is to stuff the aching tooth with 
a small piece of wool soaked in carbolic acid, or 
chloroform, or oil of cloves. A hot bottle clad in 
flannel and applied to the side of the face is soothing 
and takes away the worst of the pain. Salivation, 
with sore gums, is sometimes troublesome in 
pregnancy. It is usually one of the signs of accumu- 
lation of poisons, and should be treated as such. For 
local treatment a woman will find that a mouth-wash 
composed of a small teaspoonful of alum to a tumbler 
of water is useful. 

Skin eruptions may break out during pregnancy 
and disappear after pregnancy. They are apt to 
recur in a subsequent pregnancy. They are varied 
in nature, and if an ointment, consisting of five 
grains of yellow oxide of mercury to an ounce of 
soft paraffin is used, coupled with the measures 
that oppose poisoning of the system, does not do 
good but the eruption remains, a woman should ask 
her doctor what to do. 

200 



The Whites. 

The whites and vaginal discharge are sometimes a 
trouble to pregnant women. The constant moisture 
is unpleasant and sometimes it provokes most 
vexatious itching of the parts or pruritus. When the 
discharge irom the vagina is clear and not excessive 
there is no great harm in a woman treating herself by 
means of some simple douche. Perhaps it is best that 
she should in the first instance be shown how to 
douche herself by a doctor or a competent nurse. To 
do it effectually she should have a bidet, a douche 
can hung by a nail upon the wall, or otherwise raised 
about two feet above her hips, a long indiarubber 
tube coming from the can with a clip or tap upon 
it, and a glass vagina nozzle. As an alternative 
to the douche can she can make use of the ordinary 
rubber vaginal syringe or a large glass syringe, 
which can be boiled, both of which chemists sell. 
Either the can or syringe are efficient, but she 
must not use an enema syringe, which, with a 
different nozzle, is also used for enemas. The 
reason is obvious, and the two treatments must be 
kept apart. She must keep a syringe or douche can 
and tubing very clean, purifying them with plenty 
of hot water. As a solution for douching, she may 
use boracic acid in a saturated solution. To obtain 
this, she puts some boracic acid into a Winchester 
quart bottle and fills it up with clean or boiled 
water. The solution will be saturated when some 
white .boracic acid is seen at the bottom, owing to 
it not being dissolved. Hot water should be added 
to this solution, so as to raise it to the warm, but 
not hot, state in which douching fluid should be 
used. If there is much itching, she should use with 

201 



The Healthy Marriage. 

the same addition of hot water a lead lotion (such 
as liquor plumbi subacetatis, a dessertspoonful to a 
pint of water). She must keep the bottle apart, for 
lead lotion is poisonous. The great point to which 
she must pay heed is cleanliness. Everything used 
must be as clean as possible. She must clean the 
douche can and tubings or the syringe thoroughly 
with boiling water before she uses them. I would 
advise her not to douche more frequently than once 
every other day, and, if this does not stop the 
discharge, to consult a doctor. If the discharge is 
yellow or blood-stained, she should on no account 
attempt to treat herself, and would be certain to 
regret it if she tried to do so. In addition to 
douching, she should wash herself daily with a 
good soap, such as Pears', and powder the parts 
with a powder of boracic acid, one part, zinc oxide, 
three parts, and starch, six parts. If the itching 
is troublesome she may substitute ichthyol or coal- 
tar soap for the Pears' . If the skin is sore she should 
use an ointment, either plain lanolin or resinol 
ointment. If she have itching apart from discharge, 
she should use the ichthyol soap and resinol oint- 
ment without douching, for douching is always 
unnecessary and unwise in pregnancy unless there 
is a discharge to cure. She may also try damping 
the parts with the same lead lotion or with a lotion 
of one part of carbolic acid in eighty parts of water. 
A pregnant woman may suffer from cramps in 
the thighs and legs. Cramps are usually signs of 
the accumulation of body poisons, and should cause 
a woman to adopt the treatment given under head- 
ache and constipation. This is the way in which 

202 



Breathlessness, Backache. 

she is to avoid them. If she have them, jumping 
out of bed and rubbing the cramped muscles will be 
probably what she will do instinctively. Massage 
of the legs is good, both as a palliative and curative 
treatment. 

Breathlessness tends to trouble a pregnant woman 
in the last months. If before that time she is 
breathless, or if the breathlessness is marked, the 
case is one for a doctor. For the ordinary breath- 
lessness a woman needs no treatment except to 
avoid a quick ascent of the stairs and the like, and 
to use two extra pillows to prop her up more at 
night. 

The backache, if vexatious, is best treated by 
means of an abdominal belt, which can be procured 
from a surgical instrument maker. If the enlarged 
abdomen sags forward and causes discomfort, this 
same belt is the best remedy. 

Backache completes the list of ailments from 
which a pregnant woman may suffer, though, as 
has been said, many women go through pregnancy 
without suffering from any of them. In dealing 
with them and in the chapters upon Hygiene, the 
conduct of life during pregnancy has been stated. 
There are only a few remaining points which it is 
needful to mention. 

Firstly, as to clothing, women are sufficiently 
versed and do not require instruction. The doctor 
can only warn them against tight corsets and garters. 
The latter are especially harmful when a woman has 
any tendency to varicose veins. 

As regards baths, fresh air, and exercise, sufficient 
has been said in the chapters upon these subjects. 

203 



The Healthy Marriage. 

A woman should take exercise up to the day of 
childbirth ; in the country, in the garden, or after 
dark, if she does not care to be seen. Sufficient also 
has been said about diet. I would only warn my 
reader not to eat too much with the idea of keeping 
her strength up. There is no wisdom in overfeeding 
through the pregnant period. 

A woman used to be recommended to pay heed 
to the nipples in the last two months of pregnancy. 
She was told to wash them night and morning with 
soap and water, to pull them out gently and then 
harden their skin by damping them with a lotion of 
brandy-and-water in equal parts or with eau de 
cologne. This she was advised to do, in order to 
have them prominent and hard before the baby 
takes them. These measures are rendered quite 
unnecessary if she buy herself two " Infantibus " 
nipple shields from Vial and Uhlmann, Frankfurt- 
on-Main.* I strongly recommend them to her. 
They cost 25. 6d. each, and are really invaluable in 
cases of depressed or sore nipples. 

Lastly, there remains the question of friends and 
acquaintances, who often alarm a pregnant woman 
by unwise talk. Injudicious friends tell stories of 
the hard labours they or others have undergone. 
I cannot prevent my reader being frightened by 
such tales if she is nervous. I can only recommend 
her to read that wonderful poem, the book of Job. 
It is almost sure that, with due care, the issue to 
her troubles will be as fortunate as they were to 
those of the hero of that most human poem. 

* At present such a purchase is, of course, impossible. 
March, 1916. 

204 



CHAPTER XV. 
Miscarriage. 

" Or as a hidden untimely birth I had not been; as 
infants which never saw light." Job, iii. 16. 

THERE are many things in this world which, 
because they are failures, are apt to be contemp- 
tuously ignored. Abortion or miscarriage is one 
of these things. It is a failure, it is a premature 
expulsion of the ovum, and as such it is not only a 
subject upon which women are inclined to be reticent, 
but it is one which outwardly they are inclined to 
ignore. The disappointment is their own private 
grief, the failure is something to be hidden as much 
as possible from the outer world. The ovum in a 
miscarriage is small they know. It is not like the 
large, healthy, full-term child. It is something 
which should, therefore, pass through the birth 
passages with ease. Theoretically and according to 
a woman's argument there should be little trouble 
in a miscarriage. With childbirth it is a different 
matter. There is a child to be born, through 
passages that will only just permit it to pass. There 
is the large afterbirth to follow. There are abundant 
preparations. The nurse has been already in attend- 
ance for a day or two. The doctor is present. The 
cot and baby clothes are ready. The father is 
divided between mingled anxiety and proud anticipa- 
tion. The relatives and friends are excited at the 

205 



The Healthy Marriage. 

approaching occurrence of the most human of all 
events. But a miscarriage has no claim to any pomp 
and ceremony. It is a failure, conducted as much 
as possible secretly, and ignored. The little size of 
the ovum seems also to render it medically of little 
importance. The consequence is that, owing to 
this lack of proper mental perspective, the mis- 
carriage is ignored a great deal too much, and time 
and again a woman will know and declare that her 
ill-health has followed a neglected miscarriage. No 
woman could well neglect a childbirth, if she wanted 
to do so. But she can neglect a miscarriage and 
often does so, and regrets it deeply. For it is this 
neglect, and not the miscarriage itself, which leads 
to a miscarriage becoming a matter of danger to the 
health of a woman. 

In general, however, she is right. A miscarriage 
is not a serious matter. In a healthy woman the 
only real danger to childbirth should be when there 
is difficult delivery of the child owing to its unusual 
size or to the passages being narrow. In miscarriage, 
of course, neither of these difficulties occur. There- 
fore, a miscarriage in a healthy woman should 
theoretically never lead to any trouble that damages 
her health. And, if a miscarriage is not neglected 
but its conduct is put under the care of an able 
medical man, then one can safely say that any trouble 
that is more than temporary very rarely arises. 

Yet so great is the neglect of miscarriage, so great 
is its risk in cases of unhealthy womb and vagina, or 
if dirty instruments are used, either medically to 
aid an inevitable abortion or criminally, that an 
investigation recently conducted in New York City 

206 



The Danger of Miscarriage. 

went to show that miscarriage is almost as dangerous 
as childbirth. The dangers, of course, were never 
due to difficulty in delivery, but they were due to 
loss of blood and to the blood-poisoning which results 
from lack of cleanliness and is particularly liable to 
attack women who have lost a lot of blood. 

Miscarriage, therefore, may be strictly regarded as 
a miniature childbirth, in which two of the three 
dangers of childbirth, namely, blood-poisoning and 
bleeding, may occur, but the third danger of diffi- 
culty owing to the child's size and the smallness of 
the passages does not occur. 

Women, therefore, in regard to miscarriage have 
to pay heed to loss of blood and to cleanliness. 

The actual danger of miscarriage varies according 
to the week of pregnancy, at which it occurs. For 
reasons belonging to the nature of the afterbirth, 
miscarriage before the third month of pregnancy 
tends to come away much more quickly, more easily, 
and with less bleeding than in the later months of 
pregnancy. Indeed, in the early weeks so easily 
does the ovum come away that sometimes it passes 
undetected. The woman bleeds and takes the 
bleeding for an ordinary or somewhat delayed 
period. She perhaps notices, what look like blood- 
clots, and has a little more pain than is usual with 
her menses, and that is all. Still stranger cases have 
been recorded in which women aborted every month 
and only discovered that their so-called periods were 
really abortions by the fact that when they went 
away from their husbands they did not pass the 
" clots " at their menses and did not have the same 
recurring spasms or colicky pains. 

207 



The Healthy Marriage. 

Such miscarriages as these which occur in the 
early weeks (before the tenth week) of pregnancy, 
are clearly of little moment to the woman's health, 
however sad they may be to her, in that the child she 
desired is lost to her. 

But from the tenth to the twentieth week of 
pregnancy, owing to the peculiarly close relation of 
the afterbirth to the wall of the womb, miscarriage 
is not nearly so easy an affair. It is for similar 
reasons much rarer than it is in the early weeks, but 
if it does occur it is much more troublesome. 

After the twentieth week, the afterbirth again 
becomes looser in its attachment to the wall of the 
womb, and miscarriage becomes more frequent, and 
when it occurs, less dangerous. From the twenty- 
eighth week onwards, the child, though very 
delicate, may be reared, and so such early deliveries 
are spoken of as premature birth or delivery and not 
as miscarriage. 

Miscarriage, therefore, in the first ten weeks of 
pregnancy is common and usually passes off without 
trouble. If occurring between the tenth and 
twentieth week, which is rare, it is very apt to be 
troublesome. The ovum does not come away 
properly, there is usually free bleeding, and the 
doctor always has to be summoned. When mis- 
carriage occurs after the twentieth week, which 
again is more frequent than between the tenth and 
twentieth weeks, there is not as a rule much trouble. 
A doctor, however, or a nurse should always then be 
present. After the twenty-eighth week, the word 
miscarriage is no longer used, but the term premature 
birth is employed. 

208 



The Causes of Miscarriage. 

The causes of miscarriage are very various. 
There are the causes which lead to the death of the 
ovum. Such causes are the acute illnesses of the 
mother, when her vitality, sunk very low, is not 
sufficient to support the life of the child within the 
womb. Any acute disease such as pneumonia, 
small-pox, scarlet fever, may cause a pregnant 
woman to miscarry. Certain poisons, too, such as 
savin and cantharides have the same effect, half 
killing the mother and wholly the child. Lead, too, 
has a peculiar effect, for the wives of men who work 
in lead are found to be liable to miscarry. Chronic 
diseases also have a like result, such diseases as 
chronic heart and kidney disease. A disease 
peculiarly liable to lead to a series of miscarriages is 
syphilis, a fact which should be more generally 
known amongst the public in view of the excellent 
results of the modern treatment of this disease. 
Other causes of miscarriage are displacements of the 
womb or some disease of the womb or its neighbour- 
hood. But when all these serious causes have been 
enumerated, we are far from accounting for the very 
great majority of miscarriages. They occur for all 
sorts of apparently trivial reasons, behind which, 
however, lies a peculiar temperament or mood of the 
woman. This peculiar mood has one physiological 
basis to it, namely, the periodicity of the monthly 
periods. For it is a fact that a pregnant woman is 
far more likely to miscarry at the time when she 
would be unwell, were she not pregnant, than at any 
other time. It seems as if at this time the womb 
recalls its wonted duty of expressing its contents, 
and attempts to do so, with the occasional result of 

H.M. 209 J 4 



The Healthy Marriage. 

an actual miscarriage. Such is the common physio- 
logical basis of miscarriage. The temperamental 
basis in the woman seems to lie in a peculiar nervous- 
ness or excitability, and, I might add, a particular 
nervousness in some cases. For instance, women 
with a peculiar horror of mice may miscarry on 
seeing these dangerous animals. Others, who live in 
terror of burglars, may miscarry if they receive an 
alarm when pregnant. In women of a general 
nervous temperament, any form of sudden shock, 
grief, joy or emotion may bring on a miscarriage. 
The taking of violent purgatives or the continuation 
of suckling after pregnancy, both of which normally 
tend to excite the contractions of the womb, may 
bring on a miscarry. So, too, any local disturbance 
of the womb in such women, such as that produced 
by hot vaginal douching or by ordinary intercourse, 
may cause the womb to evacuate its contents. A 
fall may have the same effect. Horse-riding, 
bicycling, travelling in a bumpy motor car or train, 
dancing, peddling a pianola, a fit of violent vomiting 
or coughing, all by the jar they transmit to a 
woman's womb, may bring about a miscarriage, 
and are particularly liable to do so in the first 
weeks of pregnancy in nervous women. 

For miscarriage occurs considerably more fre- 
quently in delicately nurtured and refined women 
than it does in peasant women. It is most common 
amongst the sickly and underfed women of our 
manufacturing cities. By statisticians it is said that 
miscarriages represent a proportion of one to every 
five childbirths, and that some 40 per cent, of all 
married and fertile women at some time or other 

210 



The Avoidance of Miscarriage. 

have a miscarriage. On the other hand, amongst 
some women miscarriage seems almost an impossi- 
bility, and women have been known to throw them- 
selves out of window upon discovering pregnancy 
and break their limbs, but retain the fruit of the 
womb. Others have tricked doctors by false 
accounts of their symptoms into passing instruments 
into the pregnant womb and yet no miscarriage has 
resulted. 

The avoidance of so common an occurrence as a 
condition which is due to so many causes does not 
seem, nor is it, simple. But in the enumeration of 
the causes two facts were brought out, which are of 
decided practical importance. The first is the 
periodic monthly tendency to miscarriage, and, 
secondly, the peculiar personal tendency of some 
women to miscarry. These two points lay the 
grounds for practical measures directed against the 
chance of miscarriage. 

The first may be so stated : All women, when 
pregnant, should be particularly careful during the 
first three periods of time, when, if not pregnant, 
they would normally be unwell. At such times, for 
instance, they should avoid going to a dance, playing 
any exciting game, over- walking themselves, becom- 
ing constipated, rendering themselves liable to any 
great excitement or emotion, and so on. 

The second rule may be stated thus : That when 
once a woman has had or shown a tendency to mis- 
carry, then, when pregnant, she must carefully avoid 
all those causes which may bring about a miscarry. 
The ordinary rules of health and hygiene she should 
anyhow adopt, when she is pregnant, but she must 



211 



142 



The Healthy Marriage. 

add these extra precautions to them. She must 
avoid as far as possible all things that make her 
nervous or excitable. She must avoid as far as 
possible any chance of receiving a shock, and 
especially such shocks as have a peculiarly alarming 
effect upon her, such as mice, the sudden snap, growl 
and bark of a dog, her children jumping out upon 
her suddenly, the sight of hairy spiders, and so on. 
She must avoid all vaginal douching, and she must 
use the utmost caution in or wholly avoid inter- 
course. She must not ride horseback, bicycles or in 
jolting motor cars or carriages. She must not peddle 
a pianola or sewing machine. She must not go for 
long journeys, for long walks, or otherwise overtire 
herself. She must not dance either at home with 
her children or in the ball-room. She must be 
careful to avoid getting a bad cough or indigestion 
which causes her to vomit. She must avoid consti- 
pation. She should stop all alcohol and especially 
strong alcohols like liqueurs that have a quick and 
sudden action upon .the heart and nerves. She 
should avoid very hot or very cold baths. She 
should rest more and lie down for stated times upon 
the sofa. If she should notice any blood at all she 
should go to bed and send for her doctor at once. 
All these precautions are more needful in the first 
ten and the last twenty weeks of pregnancy than the 
intervening ten weeks. 

The signs of a miscarriage in a woman are a 
discharge of blood, sometimes preceded by uneasy 
sensations in the lower abdomen, and with the blood 
pain. Sooner or later, if the miscarriage is to com- 
plete itself, the contents of the womb are discharged. 

212 



The Signs of Miscarriage. 

Sometimes a miscarriage only threatens. In such a 
case there is some bleeding and pain, but the bleeding 
stops and the pain passes off and nothing more 
happens either for the rest of pregnancy or for a 
variable period of time. But if the bleeding is 
marked and it may be severe and with it there 
occur definite, intermittent, colicky pains, the 
m'scarriage is almost sure to complete itself or to 
have to be completed by the doctor. 

When, then, a woman, knowing herself to be 
pregnant, sees that a little or more blood is coming 
from her, the probability is that a miscarriage is 
threatening or is in the process of completing itself. 
And in view of the ease with which a miscarriage 
completes itself in the first weeks of pregnancy, she 
may be tempted to wait and not send for her medical 
man. But she is very unwise in not sending. The 
normal and healthy thing for a woman to do is to 
go right through her period of pregnancy without 
losing any blood. When she does lose any blood, 
I strongly advise her always, without any exception 
whatsoever, to inform her medical attendant. He 
is trained to know what to do when physiology 
becomes abnormal, and any loss of blood during 
pregnancy is abnormal. A pregnant woman, then, 
noticing blood should either lie down on the sofa or 
go to bed and let her medical man know. She need 
not alarm herself, for miscarriage, with a good 
medical man in attendance, is not a serious thing. 
But for her to neglect it or merely to consult a 
relative or nurse would be most unwise. She should 
go to bed and carefully preserve all blood clots and 
lumps of substance, of whatsoever kind, that come 

213 



The Healthy Marriage. 

from her for her doctor's inspection. By what she 
shows him he often can tell exactly what has 
happened and exactly what she should do. There- 
fore, let her lie quiet and keep everything for her 
doctor. Any advice that I gave my readers, other 
than these two directions, would be harmful in 
obscuring their simple and very necessary wisdom. 

Should the doctor succeed in preventing the 
miscarriage from completing itself, he will himself 
give his patient directions as to how to avoid further 
risk. 

Should, however, the miscarriage complete itself, 
or should the doctor complete it, then he will keep 
his patient in bed and treat her very much as if she 
had had a childbirth at full term. 

Sometimes the fruit of the womb dies and is 
retained within the womb without either loss of 
blood or outward signs, so that the mother does not 
know that her child is dead. But she will soon 
begin to suspect that something is wrong. The 
ordinary progressive signs of pregnancy cease. She 
is no longer sick, but has a curious cold feeling in 
the abdomen, as if some life had left her from there. 
Her breasts cease to increase in size and become 
soft and flabby, her womb no longer gets bigger. 
If she has felt the child move, it does so no longer. 
Sometimes a brown discharge shows itself. But 
chiefly the woman herself will feel that something 
is wrong and this, indeed, is really the only initial 
indication in a condition that at first has no out- 
ward signs. She then goes to her doctor. This 
condition is not one of danger if the woman goes to 
her doctor when she feels that something is wrong 

214 



A Rare Condition 

or when she sees a brown discharge. It will, very 
possibly, mean an anaesthetic, and certainly some 
days in bed, but provided the death of the ovum 
has occurred from natural causes, there is no more 
danger attached to the condition than there is to a 
well-treated miscarriage. The condition is also a 
rare one, but has to be mentioned, for it is one of 
the cases in which a woman may be greatly puzzled 
and not quite know what to do. 



215 



CHAPTER XVI. 
The Duration of Pregnancy. 

" Time is the nurse and breeder of all good." Shakespeare. 

THE duration of pregnancy is variable. Upon 
average some 280 days or ten lunar months inter- 
vene between the day of conception and the day 
when labour sets in. But no single case can be 
decided by an average. It is impossible to say that 
a woman having conceived on January ist will have 
her baby precisely 280 days later, namely, upon 
October 7th. She may have a baby that will live 
and even grow up to be as strong as the average 
child as much as twelve weeks before this date, and 
she may have her baby as late as five weeks after 
this date. The range around the average is seen to 
be very great. As has been said, the births that 
occur before the fortieth week are called premature 
births, and the earlier a child is born the smaller is it 
and the less likely to live. The births occurring after 
the fortieth week, on the other hand, usually pro- 
duce children of large size. A new-born baby, on 
average, weighs between seven and eight pounds, 
but these late born may weigh as much or even 
more than twelve pounds. A date may be placed 
a month too late by a woman, who saw a little at 
the first menstrual time during her pregnancy, and 
this slight show she may count as a true menstrua- 

216 



Late Birth. 

tion, in which case, according to her, labour in the 
fortieth week would be labour in the forty-fourth 
week. But this miscalculation does not account 
for many cases of late birth. Late birth is quite 
genuine. Genuine cases, in which the dates of 
conception were accurately known, have shown a 
duration of pregnancy of as many as 309 to 315 
days, or eleven lunar months instead of ten. The 
consequence of this is that, although a pregnant 
woman is usually accurate within a few days in her 
estimation of the length of pregnancy, she may be 
more than a month wrong. So, too, may the doctor. 
He is as liable to err as the wife, in a matter where 
there is no certainty. 

For practical purposes 280 days is a useful 
reckoning. Within a fortnight, either before or 
after the 28oth day, two-thirds of the children are 
born. The other third are mostly born over a 
fortnight earlier, some few over a fortnight later. 

Conception is supposed commonly to take place 
some few days after menstruation has ceased, but, 
of course, it may occur at any time. In order to 
reckon the date upon which labour will set in, con- 
ception is supposed to occur soon after a menstrual 
period has ceased. The date of the last day of the last 
menstruation is consequently the date from which 
one counts the probable duration of pregnancy. 
There are various ways of doing this. The Rotunda 
Hospital rule was to add seven days to this date and 
count back three calendar months. Thus, if a 
woman was last unwell on January 20th, by adding 
seven days one gets January 27th, and counting back 
three months one gets the probable date of labour 

217 



The Healthy Marriage. 

as October 27th. The slight variety of a day or so 
that leap year and February introduce is of no 
moment in fixing a date round about which labour 
may be expected. Roughly, then, the rule is to add 
seven days to the date of the last day of the last 
menses and count back three months. Labour will 
set in, in the great majority of cases, either on the 
date or within a fortnight of it, either earlier or 
later. 

Quickening is first felt about the eighteenth week. 
This is, however, so variable a feeling that the date 
of its appearance is not a safe basis from which to 
calculate the duration of labour. 

The doctor also can measure the height of the 
growing womb and so find out how long pregnancy 
has existed, but this does not give exact information. 
In fact, one cannot get exactness in this matter. 
One can only say that adding seven days to the last 
day of menstruation and counting back three 
months gives one an approximate date sufficient 
for practical purposes. 



218 



CHAPTER XVII. 

The Pre- determination of the Sex of the 
Child. 

" Almost old wives superstitions." Cicero. 

THE possibility of pre-determining the sex of 
the child has always been one of interest to man- 
kind, and would be one of importance were more 
definite information obtainable. As it is, the condi- 
tions determining sex are very little known. There 
probably are several, and it is almost impossible to 
unravel the effect of one from those of the others. 
A few indications they have almost too many ex- 
ceptions to be called rules may here be mentioned. 

Firstly in importance is the fact that the propor- 
tion of male to female births in Europe is about 
1 06 to 100. Boys are more exposed to dangers in 
childbirth and later life, and, therefore, in adult 
life the position is reversed. Whereas the figures 
show that more boys are born than girls, .yet in 
adult life there are more women than men. 

The respective age of the parents probably has 
some slight influence on the sex of the offspring. 
If the husband is decidedly older than the wife 
more boys are born than girls. This rule seems to 
be true especially when the wife is about five-and- 
twenty and the husband ten or more years the elder. 
If the wife is older than the husband more girls are 
said to be born, but this rule seems to be scarcely 
a rule at all, there are so many exceptions. 

219 



The Healthy Marriage. 

Women, who have their first children when they 
are either very young or advanced in years, are said 
usually to bear boys as their first-born. 

Boys are more frequently born if conception takes 
place ten or more days after the menstrual flow has 
ceased. 

When the husbands have hard fare and the wives 
good fare there is a slight tendency for male children 
to be born. Any conditions that weigh on the men 
such as bad seasons with scarcity of food, war, 
sieges, such as that of Paris, tend to be followed by 
an excess of male births. 

Some few years ago, Professor Schenk entertained 
Europe with the theory that, if a woman was put 
upon a nitrogenous and fat diet with very limited 
carbohydrates, a male chiM was probable. 

Mr. Rumley Dawson has lately improved upon an 
old theory that the right ovary produces male and 
the left female children, and that only one ovary 
produces ova in the month. Consequently, if 
conception occurs in one month a male child will be 
born, if in the next the child will be a girl. Bearing 
in mind the thirteen menstruations in the year, one 
sees that if a male child is born upon June ist in one 
year, a child born upon June ist in the next year 
would be female. As an illustration of his theory 
Mr. Dawson quotes the children of the Russian 
imperial family : 

Princess Olga, born November I5th, 1895. 

Tatiana, June loth, 1897. 

Marie, ,, June 26th, 1899. 

,, Anastasia, ,, June i8th, 1901. 

Prince Alexis, ,, August i2th, 1904. 

220 



Unreliable Beliefs. 

If the reader works out these dates, she will see that 
they do bear out the theory. Many instances, 
which I have worked out in private, have not done 
so, though unless dates correspond very accurately 
it is difficult to be sure, if the hypothesis is supported 
or contradicted. 

It is not true that great passion tends to be 
followed by a male child. There seems to be no 
difference in such cases between the numbers of boys 
and girls born. Nor has it been possible to show 
that a passionate desire for a girl or a boy has any 
determining influence. Nor when conception has 
occurred can one predict what sex the child will be 
found to have at birth. The notions that if a woman 
is sick she will have a girl, if she carries her child 
centrally or to the right, she will have a boy, if the 
foetal heart beat is fast, it is that of a girl, do not 
seem to have much truth in them when properly 
tested, 



221 



CHAPTER XVIII. 
The Preparations for Labour. 

" If I seem always equal to the occasion, ready to face 
what comes, it is because I have thought the matter over 
long before undertaking it. I have anticipated whatever 
might happen." Napoleon. 

IT is well for a woman, having her first child, to 
have everything ready for labour by or even before 
the seventh month. Her baby may be born in that 
month, and, if it be born and have neither cot nor 
clothes it receives but a poor welcome. The mother 
also will suffer discomfort from not having the 
things she needs at the time. Therefore it is unwise 
to defer preparations. She had much better have 
everything ready and lay them by for two or three 
months than be caught unexpectedly and found 
wanting. 

The first essential provision for labour is a nurse. 
A trained nurse, can, indeed, conduct a simple case 
of labour alone. Dr. Cullingworth, writing in the 
Contemporary Review for March, 1898, calculated 
that one -half to three-quarters of the babies in 
England and Wales are delivered by trained nurses 
or midwives. But even in simple cases the greater 
skill and knowledge of a doctor is a great advantage, 
and in difficult cases indispensable. For the comfort 
of the mother, the care of the child and the proper 
provision for labour and lying-in, a nurse is essential. 

222 



The Nurse. 

No nurse is now allowed by law to attend to a case 
of labour and receive payment unless she first 
passes the examination and receives the certificate 
of the Central Midwives Board. The law applies to 
nurses in England and Wales, not to those in Scot- 
land and Ireland. In England and Wales a woman 
can consequently always procure a nurse who is 
certified as having the requisite knowledge of her 
duties. So much is guaranteed in so far as examina- 
tions and certificates can guarantee efficiency. They 
certainly guard against gross inefficiency. Nurses, 
fortunately, take pride in their efficiency in these 
days, and amongst the better class kind I have very 
rarely come across defect in cleanliness, which, from 
the doctor's point of view is the most important 
fault a nurse can commit. Naturally one comes 
across nurses with some defect of character, but on 
the whole I am impressed by the general high 
standard of conduct in nurses who are well treated 
in the homes of their patients. For it must be 
remembered that in so far as a mutual bargain goes 
the nurse is at a disadvantage. The patient can 
choose her nurse, but the nurse can very rarely 
choose her patient, and a case once committed to her 
care she is bound to conduct it, unless she has very 
grave reasons for not doing so. A doctor is not 
dependent upon the kindness of his patient and her 
household as is the nurse, who is their guest. 

Some books for wives have many pages of advice 
as to how to choose a nurse. She should not be old, 
she should not be young, she should not be slovenly, 
she should not drink, and so on, but I think one has 
to leave tfrs matter to the acumen of the wife and 

223 



The Healthy Marriage. 

the recommendation of her friends. Seeing how 
much her own welfare is wrapped up in the pleasant- 
ness and capability of her nurse, the wife is not 
likely to go searching for an unsuitable one. As for 
age, a nice nurse, who is conscientious and knows 
her work, is better than a slovenly, disagreeable 
nurse, whatsoever their respective ages may be. 
There is only one point I would ask my reader to 
observe with regard to her nurse. It is to see that 
she is a nurse and not a pseudo-doctor, and not to 
ask or allow the nurse to give her medicines or wine 
without the doctor's .orders. Even an aperient 
should not be given by the nurse unless the doctor 
in attendance tells her to give it. A wife should 
ask the nurse to call upon her three months before 
she expects the baby. She will then arrange terms, 
and also become acquainted with the nurse. The 
nurse will also give her a list of things she will 
need for herself and the baby. She can also get 
a list of things needed for the baby from a shop, 
but as a rule a shop list is too large, not in 
individual items, but in the number of each item 
required. 

As regards the things she will need for herself, the 
following is a suitable list : 

Two mackintosh sheets for the bed, a yard and 
a half by a yard. 

Two dozen large wood-wool sanitary towels. 

One dressing- jacket for the lying-in period. 

Four binders, a yard and a quarter long and half 
a yard wide, made of stout roller towel material. 
Ready-made abdominal belts with straps and 
buckles cost more, but are more convenient. 

224 



The Mother's Requirements. 

A roller towel with the ends free and not sewn 
together. 

A packet of stout straight pins for pinning the 
binder, and one of safety pins. 

Two hot-water bottles. 

A packet of cotton wool and one of gamgee tissue. 

A bed pan. 

A night commode. This can be hired after the 
baby is born, for it will not be needed until the 
lying-in period. 

Two enamelled bowls, for holding antiseptics and 
cotton wool swabs. 

One enamelled dish, also for antiseptics. 

A feeding cup. 

A tin bath such as is used for washing handker- 
chiefs, etc. 

A strip of linoleum to protect the carpet. 

Three washhand basins. One is sufficient if there 
is also a basin with running water and waste. 

A large jug for boiling water. 

Available means for plenty of hot water. 

Clean sheets, nightdresses, personal and bed linen 
in sufficient quantity for three to four times the 
ordinary weekly use. 

For the baby the following is a sufficient list. If 
more things are found desirable, they can be bought 
when required : 

Cot with mattress, linen, blankets and small pillow. 

Four vests. 

Four swathes. 

Four pilches. 1 

Three night flannels. 

Three day flannels, 

H,M. 225 I5 



The Healthy Marriage. 

Four bibs. 

Four nightgowns. 

Four monthly gowns. 

Two robes. 

Two dozen diapers. 

Two petticoats. 

One cloak. 

One shawl. 

One head flannel 

One bonnet. 

Three flannel squares. 

A baby's bath. 

Two " Infantibus '" nipple shields (devised by 
Dr. Albert Stern and procured from Vial and 
Uhlmann, Frankf urt-on-Main) . 

A wife is also wise, if she does not already know 
the doctor she proposes to ca'l in, to make his 
acquaintance before labour sets in. It will be very 
unpleasant for her when in labour to await the 
coming of a man strange to her. I also strongly 
recommend her to ask her doctor to see her a month 
before she expects to be delivered, a precaution that 
is peculiarly necessary if she has not had a child 
before. By examining her in bed often by an 
abdominal examination only he will be able to tell 
if there is any undetected smallness of her pelvis or 
other reason for anticipating difficulty. And in no 
case is the saying that to be forewarned is to be 
forearmed more true than in such a case. If a 
woman has already had a baby without trouble this 
precaution is not so necessary, for the normal birth 
of her child shows that she has a sufficiently roomy 
pelvis. Even then, however, it is a precaution that 

226 



The Lying-in Room. 

has value, for there are rare conditions of tumour 
which make labour difficult, and the earlier these 
conditions are detected the better. 

The room in which a woman is to be delivered 
has to be prepared. A sunny, airy, quiet room is 
always preferable. The chief preparation of the 
room should be in making it spotlessly clean, both 
from the doctor's and the housewife's point of view. 
It should be turned out before the expected time of 
labour and all the commonly unattainable places 
must be exposed, and the dust and dirt located in 
them abolished. Such places are to be found under 
the canvas cover of a spring mattress, under the 
bed itself, at the top of and behind wardrobes, etc. 
All accessory and unnecessary drapery must be 
removed, such as heavy curtains, the valances of 
the bed, mantelpiece borders, and the carpet even, 
which may else be soiled. The other curtains and 
blinds must be clean, the carpet must be cleaned, 
the floor scrubbed. A thorough cleaning is the way 
by which to prepare an ideal lying-in room, and a 
wife in her own house should choose the room she 
can most readily prepare and which has the brightest 
aspect. 

Lastly, the closets and drains must be thoroughly 
flushed with Sanitas or some other disinfectant 
fluid. If there is any undesirable smell, if the water 
runs away and leaves a dry pan, or if anything 
else appears wrong, the sanitary inspector should 
be called in and the matter set right. Foul air or 
sewer gas must at all costs be avoided in a house 
where a woman is about to lie-in. 

'227 15-2 



CHAPTER XIX. 
Labour. 

" All women labouring with child." The Litany. 

LABOUR is childbirth. The dictionary definition 
of labour is travail or the pangs and efforts of child- 
birth. The term labour has now come to mean the 
whole process of childbirth, and not only the pangs 
and efforts by which delivery is effected. Thus, 
medical men speak of the mechanisms of labour, 
difficult labour, induction of labour, when they 
mean the mechanisms of childbirth, difficult child- 
birth, and so on. A woman who is going to have a 
child often wants to know what it is that happens. 
It is, of all events, one of the most strange to women. 
They marry, they conceive, and they bring forth, 
the common fate of most women and yet most 
strange. Some women accept this common fate 
without questioning. They do not concern them- 
selves with what it is that happens to them. They 
become pregnant, and after ten lunar months they 
fall into labour and the child is born that is all 
they know or care to know. But most wives are 
more interested in this most intimate process of 
their lives, and it is for their sake that I shall give an 
account of the matter, which I shall endeavour to 
make as lucid as the subject and my exposition 
permits. 

228 



The Physiology of Pregnancy. 

The egg of the woman is produced by the ovary 
or egg-bearing gland, a walnut-sized organ which 
lies near to the womb. There are two ovaries, one 
on the right side and one on the left side of the 
womb. A tube, called the Fallopian tube, passes 
from each ovary to the top or fundus of the womb. 
This tube is lined by little fringed processes, which 
wave to and fro towards the womb. The egg drops 
from the ovary into the trumpet-shaped mouth of 
the Fallopian tube and the fringes waft it into the 
womb. The egg has not power of motion of itself. 
The male seed has. Each male seed is provided 
with a mobile tail. The womb itself is shaped like 
an oval brandy flask. Its neck projects into the 
vagina or sheath. The male seed, which is very 
minute, passes from the vagina through the neck of 
the womb into the body of the womb, and usually 
makes its way into the Fallopian tube, where it 
meets the egg. The two unite, and from the 
moment of their conjunction a new being is brought 
into existence. In other words, the mother con- 
ceives. The fertilized egg is now wafted by the 
fringes of the tube into the womb, and becomes 
embedded in the spongy lining of the womb, pre- 
cisely as a seed falling upon the ground becomes 
embedded in the soil. The embryo or future child 
is, for protection's sake the protection of its delicate 
substance against jars and harsh movements 
surrounded by water, which is enclosed in a delicate 
membrane, which is joined at one place to the 
embryo, this junction eventually lengthening to 
become the cord or navel string. This constitutes 
the so-called bag of waters. From the delicate 

229 



w 

The Healthy Marriage. 

membrane enclosing the waters little processes or 
rootlets grow into the spongy lining of the womb, 
and so the embryo gets nourishment. These rootlets 
are slender in their hold upon the womb. At the 
end of the third month of pregnancy most of the 
rootlets wither away, while a group of others 
increase in size and penetrating power to constitute 
the placenta, the large, fleshy disc-shaped organ 
which at childbirth forms the most conspicuous 
part of the afterbirth, so-called, because its birth 
or delivery follows that of the child. The placenta 
acts as lungs, stomach and kidneys to the child as 
long as it is in the womb. The child is connected 
with the placenta by the cord or navel string, along 
which its blood vessels pass. The child's blood is 
carried along these vessels to the placenta, which is 
composed of a mesh of child's and mother's blood 
vessels, only 'separated from each other by the 
thinnest membrane, through which nourishing sub- 
stances pass from the mother's blood to the child's 
blood, and waste substances pass from the child's 
blood to the mother's. The mother's womb, there- 
fore, contains the child floating in the bag of waters 
and the placenta. The bag of waters is enclosed 
by a delicate membrane which is pressed closely 
against and slightly adherent to the wall of the 
womb. At one place this membrane (or membranes, 
for actually, there are two lightly glued together) 
suddenly thickens to the disc-shaped placenta, 
which is more closely attached to the womb than 
are the membranes. Floating in the waters and 
passing from the navel of the child to the centre of 
the placenta is the umbilical cord or navel string. 

230 



The Physiology of Labour. 

Labour is the process by which the womb frees 
itself of the child, the bag of waters and the placenta, 
and they are all brought into the world. 

In order that this may be brought about two 
things are necessary, firstly, the opening of the 
mouth of the womb with the dilatation of the vagina 
and front passage to a width sufficient to allow the 
child to pass, and secondly, an expelling force. The 
chief expelling force is the muscle of the womb itself, 
though it is aided by the voluntary expulsive efforts 
of the woman, who hardens her abdominal muscles 
and strains when she feels the child descending. 
The contractions of the womb in labour are inter- 
mittent and painful. Hence, they are known as 
the pains. In the so-called first stage of labour 
these contractions of the womb slowly pull open the 
mouth of the womb, and each time a contraction 
pulls the mouth of the womb a little open, a portion 
of the bag of waters protrudes through it. The 
process is like that of pushing a door open against 
resistance. One pushes and opens it a crack and 
inserts the point of a boot or other substance into 
the crack to keep it open whilst one rests one's 
strength for another push. The womb does pre- 
cisely the same in the first stage of labour. It 
makes an effort, an effort painful to the mother, 
and pulls the mouth of the womb open a little. At 
the same time it pushes a protrusion from the bag 
of waters through the small opening It then rests. 
After a rest it again makes an effort, and again 
enlarges the mouth of the womb. When it is large 
enough for the child to pass, the membranes en- 
closing the waters split open, and some of the waters 

231 



The Healthy Marriage. 

run out. This is known as the breaking of the 
waters. 

All is now ready for the passage of the child. 
The head of the child is in some 95 cases out of 100 
the first to pass and to be born. When the mouth of 
the womb is wide and the waters have broken, the 
contractions of the womb push the child down head 
first through the mouth of the womb, vagina and 
front passage into the outer world. This is known 
as the second stage of labour and is the most painful 
stage. During it, the woman feels the need of 
ridding herself of the child and by straining or 
bearing down helps the efforts of the womb. After 
the birth of the child, the womb usually rests 
for some minutes. Then it makes another effort 
or succession of efforts, which result in the after- 
birth, the placenta and membranes, from which 
the water has escaped through the large rent made 
by the child. This is known as the third stage of 
labour. Such is the process of conception, the 
growth of the child in the womb and the delivery 
of the child and afterbirth at the time of labour, 
which will probably interest and certainly instruct 
the reader. She is, however, more concerned to 
know how she is to tell when she is in labour, what 
will happen to her, what are the best things she can 
do, and how she can be saved from pain. 

Sometimes a wife will have her nurse with her 
for a few days before the baby is born. She and 
the nurse will be able to get everything ready. The 
nurse will see that the room is quite clean, that 
basins, soap and other requisites are to hand, that 
the linen and baby's clothes are laid out in drawers, 

232 



The Onset of Labour. 

so that she knows where to put her hand upon them, 
and so on. Then when the wife falls into labour 
the nurse will be able to assure her and will take all 
decisions as to when to send for the doctor and how 
to dispose the preparations. A nurse is always 
trained to know how to do these things. 

In the event of the woman not having her nurse 
with her, it is important that she should be able to 
tell when labour has begun and to distinguish it 
from false alarms. False alarms are caused by 
pains in the stomach, which the wife mistakes for 
the beginning of the pains of labour. She is very 
apt to mistake them, when the child is her first and 
when she is very nervous about the onset of labour. 
These false pains are apt to come on in such cases 
about three weeks before labour. The character- 
istic by which they may be distinguished is their 
irregularity in time, nature and distribution. Some- 
times they continue for several minutes together or 
much longer, like ordinary abdominal pain. Some- 
times they are colicky, sometimes a dull ache. They 
pass from one place to another or are very general in 
character, they are felt not only in the stomach, but 
also in the loins and back and even in the lower 
limbs. The true pains are felt in the small of the 
back, and the intervals between them are definite 
in their regularity. They come unexpectedly, 
last a short time, and pass away completely in the 
early stage. It is difficult to describe pain, but these 
true pains are aching or boring in character. They 
may feel like a belt around the waist starting from 
the small of the back. They are accompanied by 
",show " in most, though not in all, cases. This 

233 



The Healthy Marriage. 

show consists of mucus, usually blood-stained, that 
is found at the front passage and shows that the 
vagina is already being lubricated for the passage 
of the child. The false pains, on the other hand, 
are not accompanied by show. The false pains, as 
time passes on, continue to be irregular, or they pass 
away. The true pains do not do this. The intervals 
between them shorten from an hour or half an hour 
to twenty minutes, they are felt definitely in the 
small of the back, they become more painful. This 
regular increase in character is the sign of true 
labour pains. 

But in .the early stages, when all is said, it is not 
always easy for a woman to distinguish false from 
true pains. It is, moreover, not uncommon for 
a woman to have niggling stomach pains some 
hours or days before the true pains begin. She is 
also in an anxious state and fears to trust to herself. 
Therefore, should she be in doubt, or too anxious to 
let a couple of hours or less elapse that the nature 
of her pains may become evident, she should send 
for the nurse or doctor. If, on the other hand, she 
thinks her pains are false pains she should take a 
laxative, which in any case will be good for her, 
and lie down with a hot bottle or hot flannels to 
her stomach. If the pain passes away under this 
treatment there will be no need for her to send for 
the doctor or nurse. 

Excluding these spurious pains, there are 
commonly other signs that labour may be shortly 
expected. The womb falls before labour and the 
woman notices its fall, perhaps by her noticing a 
greater prominence of the abdomen, more often 

234 



The Fall of the Womb. 

by a change in her symptoms. The change is one 
of transference. Before the womb was high up 
in the abdomen, now it sinks down a little into the 
pelvis. Consequently she breathes more freely and 
feels easier in the region of the stomach and chest. 
The pelvic passages and organs, on the other hand, 
feel the increased pressure. Consequently she passes 
her water more frequently. She feels the need of 
having her bowels open more frequently, which is 
a good thing, for the lower bowel should be cleared 
of its contents before childbirth. If she have 
whites they are increased in amount. These 
changes occur a day or two before delivery in women 
who have had children, but some two to three weeks 
before the birth of a first child. In many women, 
however, they are hardly noticeable. Their presence, 
then, warns a wife that labour will not be long 
deferred, but their absence does not mean that 
labour is not soon to be expected. 

Sometimes a day or two before labour sets in 
a little mass of mucus, known as the mucus plug, 
is discharged from the front passage. This is not 
noticed by most women, but if it is, it will warn them 
to expect labour in a day or two. 

There are women, especially those who have 
already had children, who, apart from all distinctive 
signs, have reliable intuitions that labour is about 
to start. 

Generally speaking, dull pains in the small of the 
back of short duration, with definite intervals 
between them, show that labour has begun. If they 
are accompanied by a blood-stained mucus or show 
at the front passage, then labour has certainly begun, 

235 



The Healthy Marriage. 

with exceptions so rare as to be practically 
unimportant. 

Having started, how long may labour be expected 
to last before the child and afterbirth are born ? 
This, like all questions relating to the much varied 
manifestations of life, cannot be given a definite 
answer. Only averages can be given and general 
indications and the extremes stated. I remember 
two cases which greatly impressed me as a student. 
In one a lady friend of mine was having tea in the 
drawing room. She was pregnant with a full term 
or nine calendar months' child, her third. She had a 
sensation of something falling and rose to go upstairs, 
but she had not reached the stairs before the baby, a 
healthy boy weighing 10 Ibs., was born. Measured 
by the pains, the length of her labour was only a few 
seconds. Similar cases of very brief pains are by no 
means uncommon. I have attended women who 
have had their babies unexpectedly in shops, cabs 
and in the street. The second case was that of a 
woman in the East End with her first child. She 
fell into labour and, though there was no doubt she 
was in labour, her pains were feeble and often would 
pass away altogether for some hours. For seven days 
and nights this tedious labour continued, but at no 
time did the woman show any signs of distress either 
by a raised temperature, rapid pulse, severe pain or 
mental distress. She was a quiet, subdued woman, 
who had worked hard all her life and I think was 
actually enjoying her freedom from the accustomed 
toil. On the seventh day she delivered herself, 
without difficulty, of a healthy child. Similar cases 
of lingering labour are also not uncommon. They 

236 



Normal Labour. 

are very trying often to all concerned, and especially 
to the doctor, upon whom both wife and relatives 
urge artificial delivery, although he knows that such 
a delivery is bad treatment, resulting in bad tears of 
the neck of the womb and outlet of the vagina, 
which are apt to cause all sorts of trouble later. 

Such are the extremes of the duration of labour, 
namely, from a few seconds of pain to feeble pains 
enduring with intervals for seven days. But some 
90 out of every 100 cases of childbirths fall into the 
class of normal labour. In these cases the child's 
head is born first and the child and the afterbirth are 
delivered within twenty-four hours of the onset of 
labour, without any artificial help being given and 
without complications. A duration of twenty- 
four hours is too long for the average duration of 
labour. Twenty-four hours' duration is the limit 
time for normal labour. Most labours are shorter 
than this. At the Rotunda Hospital we found that 
in women bearing their first child the first stage of 
labour occupied about twelve hours ; in women 
who had had a child, about six hours ; the second 
stage of labour occupied two and one hours respec- 
tively ; the third stage took about half an hour. 
In the first childbirth parts have to be stretched 
which have never previously been stretched, hence 
a longer time is taken. After the parts have 
once been stretched labour is more speedy, and 
theoretically it should be speedier with each succes- 
sive childbirth. In actuality this is usually the case, 
though with later pregnancies, owing to a weakening 
of the muscles and vital forces, labour tends to 
become longer again, 

237 



The Healthy Marriage. 

The time may seem long to the reader and she 
shudders with dread at the prospect of so prolonged 
a period of pain. But the actual period of severe 
pain is not so long as the above statements seem to 
indicate. Of course the pain depends on the personal 
capacity of the wife to feel and endure pain. Some 
women are very patient and only cry out when the 
long, strong pains, which immediately precede the 
birth of the child, are upon them. Others are upset, 
excited, and cry out with pain and for chloroform 
from the commencement. Personal control on the 
part of the doctor and nurse calm them greatly, but 
there are, of course, some women who really do feel 
the pain acutely and have not the stoical control 
over themselves which others have. The only 
advantage, on the other hand, that one can urge for 
the usual duration of labour is that it gives the wife 
time to send for the nurse and doctor and it gives 
them time to make the necessary preparations 
without the confusion of hurry. It may be good 
fortune to have a child rapidly and painlessly born, 
but to be overtaken whilst shopping or in the street 
or in a train is the reverse of pleasant, and the danger 
of such unexpected childbirth to both mother and 
child is greatly increased. Children have been 
known to have their skulls fractured by falling upon 
the ground in sudden unexpected deliveries, and 
others have fallen into the basin, when the mother was 
at the closet, thinking the feelings she had were no more 
than those indicating a need of relieving the bowels. 
The most fortunate labour is a natural delivery 
occupying some six hours in all, and there is a very 
fair chance of a woman having this fortunate labour. 

238 



Initial Action. 

A woman, we will suppose, has fallen into labour. 
She has been previously examined by her medical 
man who has told her that the child is lying in the 
womb in a favourable position. She notices the 
show at the front passage. She feels an aching pain 
in the small of the back, and these pains last about 
a minute or so and' recur every half hour. What is 
she to do ? We will also suppose that her husband 
and a servant are in the house with her. She sends 
her husband for the nurse, and, if she has previously 
had quick labours, for the doctor also. She also 
sends for her mother, and some friend, who will be in 
the house whilst the child is being born. If she can 
telephone to all these people, so much the better. If 
it is in the early morning and she thinks she can spare 
the doctor until breakfast-time, knowing him to be 
very hard-worked, he will be grateful to her, but he 
will certainly come at once, if she asks him. She 
will tell the servant to light a fire in her bedroom 
if it is at all cold, and to light one in the kitchen so as 
to have plenty of hot water ready. She herself will 
prepare her dress suitably. She will put on a clean 
nightdress, a dressing jacket, and over them a 
dressing gown. The nightdress can be rolled up 
above her waist at the later stages, so that it is not 
soiled. She will not put on a corset or abdominal 
belt ; at such a time there could not be more 
inconvenient and hindering attire. If it is cold 
weather she can put on one or two vests, a petticoat 
and stockings. Whilst she is waiting she can have a 
cup of tea and some bread and butter. The lightest 
food at long intervals will suffice during normal 
labour. Indeed, she will often only feel inclined fo r 

239 



The Healthy Marriage. 

an occasional glass of water or cup of tea, and this is 
quite sufficient for her. 

The nurse arrives, and the first thing she will 
probably do is to find out for herself whether her 
patient is really in labour. If a doctor is going to 
attend, the nurse will probably not make a vaginal 
examination or feel a pain as it is called. It is 
impossible to say exactly what any particular nurse 
or doctor will or will not do, but as a rule, when a 
doctor is to attend, a nurse does not make this 
examination. The nurse, having satisfied herself 
that labour is in progress, asks her patient about 
previous labours, if she has had any, for one labour 
tends to resemble another in length. She tries, in 
fact, to estimate the probable length of labour and 
the strength of the pains, in order to judge of the 
need of summoning the doctor at once or later. 
For no wife can expect a doctor, who has other 
patients to see, to be present from the first pain and 
to wait about hour after hour, whilst labour pro- 
gresses in the usual slow but straight-forward fashion. 

Having made up her mind about these points, the 
nurse then sets about preparing the room, the bed, 
the basins, etc. In the meanwhile she will tell her 
patient to walk about or sit in a chair, for during 
the first stage of labour, before the breaking of the 
waters, it is better for her to be about and not to 
lie down the whole time. 

Perhaps the nurse will get her to help make the 
bed. This is how the bed should be made, either 
this or some similar arrangement : 

1. A hard mattress never a feather bed. 

2. A blanket. 

240. 



The Arrangement of the Bed 

3. A sheet. 

4. A mackintosh. 

5. A draw-sheet. 

These are all tucked in under the mattress. 

6. The binder laid out and fixed at the edges to 
the draw-sheet by safety pins. 

7. A second mackintosh overhanging the edge of 
the bed so as to protect the underlying clothes. 

8. A draw- sheet, which lies loose upon the 
mackintosh and is not fixed by pins. 

The rationale of this arrangement is as follows. 
The woman is delivered upon the upper draw-sheet. 
It and the upper mackintosh become soiled by the 
waters and blood that are always lost after the birth 
of the child. These fluids are scooped off the draw- 
sheet and mackintosh as well as possible into a 
tin bath placed on the floor under the edge of the 
bed, the bath itself being placed upon a piece of 
oil-cloth or other stuff, which protects the carpet. 
After this has been done, the patient is cleaned and 
dried, the upper draw-sheet and mackintosh are 
pulled away from under her and she now lies upon 
the binder and second draw-sheet. The binder is 
unpinned and bound round her. Within the 
following twenty-four hours or so, when the dis- 
charge has become moderate in quantity, the second 
draw-sheet and mackintosh are pulled away and the 
woman now comes to lie upon an ordinary bed. In 
this way she is provided with fresh, clean layers 
to lie on with the least possible disturbance. The 
upper bedclothes are made sufficient to keep her 
warm. During childbirth their edges are pinned 
together with safety pins, in order that they may all 

H.M, 241 l6 



The Healthy Marriage. 

be moved and thrown back together, and not 
severally, when there is need. 

In the first stage of labour the nurse also pays 
heed to the patient's bowels and bladder. She sees 
that she passes her water frequently and she sees 
that the back passage is emptied. This is most 
important, for, matter coming from the back passage 
during the birth of the child, which squeezes the 
stuff out in its descent, makes it difficult to keep 
the childbirth clean and adds to the risk of infection 
with consequent chance of fever in the lying-in 
period. Moreover, a full bladder and back passage 
undoubtedly delay labour and in some way make the 
pains tedious. Therefore, the nurse is almost sure 
to give her patient a soap-and-water enema, which 
will relieve her, hasten the birth of the child and 
eliminate as far as possible a common source of 
uncleanliness. When the bowels are opened, she 
uses the chamber or commode, if she has it. She 
should not go to the closet, because, as has been said, 
there are rare cases in which the child has been 
born and actually drowned whilst the mother was 
at the closet. It is a rare accident, but it is well, 
of course, to avoid all risk. 

Not infrequently the pains in the first stage of 
labour make a wife sick. If she vomits much she 
will have to go to bed or certainly lie down for a 
while ; for this she can also try sips of iced soda 
water. Brandy she should not take without the 
doctor's order. Again, sometimes the pains decrease 
in intensity, decrease in frequency, and eventually 
die away altogether. The wife in these cases finds 
herself inclined to sleep and so she goes to sleep and 

242 



The Pains of the First Stage. 

wakes up later refreshed and with the proper 
pains. 

This is practically all a woman need do in the first 
stage of labour before the waters break. Even if 
she is very excitable and makes a great to-do about 
the pain, there is little or nothing more that she 
herself can do. Nature has to take its course. 
Whilst the pains are on, the wife usually catches a 
tight hold of something. Often pressure in or 
rubbing of the back eases her, and this the nurse will 
do for her. On no account should she bear down. 
She will not gain anything by bearing down except 
weariness from her exertions. There are some 
nurses who tell a patient to bear down with every 
ain in the first stage, but they are quite wrong in 
doing so. A woman should emphatically not bear 
down during the first stage. As the first stage 
advances her pains will become more frequent. The 
intervals between them, at first half an hour or an 
hour, continually shorten until when the first stage 
passes to the second the intervals may be only two 
or three minutes to lengthen again with the pains 
of the earlier part of the second stage. 

The doctor usually comes as soon as he is called, 
and certainly as soon as he can. Sometimes he 
cannot come at once, being engaged at a serious 
case elsewhere. He may, for instance, be actually 
delivering another woman at the time when he is 
called. When he comes he will want to examine 
his patient to see that the lie of the child is a good 
one and that all is likely to be well. To find out 
this he will examine her abdomen, whilst she lies 
upon her back in bed. He may make a vaginal 

243 16-2 



The Healthy Marriage. 

examination, or take a pain, in the popular phrase. 
Perhaps he will not do this. In the great majority 
of cases it is not absolutely necessary, though it 
may be helpful to the doctor, in ascertaining the 
nature of the labour. It is useful to him for the 
sake of diagnosis and for discovering the effect of a 
pain. But it does not help the woman. Many 
women believe that it helps them, but it does not. 
Indeed, it is not only unnecessary in most cases, but 
it brings with it a slight element of risk, for it may 
give rise to infection and give the woman fever when 
she is lying-in. Before the days of Semmelweiss, 
the great Viennese and Hungarian physician, and 
before the work of the late Lord Lister, this taking 
of a pain was often fraught with the greatest danger 
to women. Students, midwives and doctors half a 
century ago made frequent vaginal examinations. 
They did not know anything at all of microbes and 
the need of antiseptics. They took the pains with 
unclean and microbe-infected hands in hospitals, 
sometimes coming directly from the post-mortem 
room to the bedside without washing their hands. 
The results were appalling. Sometimes as many as 
twelve women in every 100 in lying-in hospitals 
died from the effects of fever after childbirth, and 
half those who escaped death left the hospitals with 
crippled health. So terrible was this slaughter 
and disease which the doctors, students and mid- 
wives caused, that industrial populations were 
actually threatened with destruction owing to the 
mortality and invalidism that accompanied child- 
birth. But Semmelweiss and Lister have changed 
all that. By the use of antiseptics the vaginal 

244 



Modern Efficiency. 

examination has almost been robbed of its dangers. 
Nowadays the mortality in hospitals is about 
one mother in 300, and the one unfortunate usually 
dies from quite other causes than infective fever, 
such as haemorrhage, associated severe heart disease, 
consumption, bad deformity, etc. Nevertheless, 
it is the teaching of the most up-to-date medical 
schools that vaginal examinations should be avoided 
as far as possible. Personally, I do not often 
make them myself, but follow the process of labour 
by feeling the child's progress by examinations 
of the woman's abdomen, and by a means known 
as perineal palpation. I also forbid a nurse to 
make vaginal examinations, with rare exceptions. 

If, when the doctor has made his abdominal 
examination, he finds that the case instead of being 
a normal one is abnormal, with a faulty lie of the 
child or other defect, then the whole complexion 
of the matter is changed. Towards the end of the 
first stage will probably be the time which he finds 
most suitable for setting the matter right. I need 
not describe what he is likely to do. There are so 
many different treatments, according to the many 
different conditions he may find present. It is 
sufficient to state that in the event of his finding it 
necessary to do something that will cause great pain, 
he will first give his patient chloroform. 

If the doctor finds that all is well, he endeavours to 
estimate when the child will be born. This he will 
do in the first stage by finding out about the 
woman's other childbirths, whether they were quick 
or slow, and by estimating the strength of the pains. 
As regards the latter estimation, a doctor is in an 

245 



The Healthy Marriage. 

unfortunate position. The pains, though not under 
the control of a woman, are certainly affected by 
her nervous state. Consequently, it happens with 
annoying frequency that when a doctor enters the 
room he frightens away the pains. He waits and 
waits, and still the woman has no pains. He finally 
has to abandon the estimation of the pains and to 
rely upon the less skilled observation of the pains 
and their effects which the nurse reports to him. 
If he thinks the child is going to be born soon, he 
will naturally stay. If, on the other hand, he 
thinks it will not be born for some hours and he has 
other sick people to see, he will inform the nurse 
when he will come back and where to send for him 
in case of need, and will leave the house. By 
staying he can do no good. Labour is a natural 
process. All the world over the female has to give 
birth to its young. Ninety out of every hundred 
childbirths are naturally effected without any 
interference from the doctor. He knows this. His 
profession teaches him above all to trust to nature. 
Consequently, with this trust and his experienced 
knowledge, a doctor feels fully justified in leaving 
his patient when he does not think the baby will be 
born for some hours. 

But, though he trusts nature, there are times 
when she plays him nasty tricks. There are times 
when he has scarcely left the house before a few 
strong, sharp efforts of the womb unexpectedly 
deliver the child. The modern doctor, who refrains 
from the slight risk entailed in making a vaginal 
examination an examination which gives him 
more accurate information as to the probable time 

246 



Summary of the First Stage. 

of the birth of the child than does the abdominal 
examination alone is more apt to be surprised in 
this way. Nevertheless, the risk to the patient in 
such a case is exceedingly slight. The very fact 
that the baby is born so swiftly and with such little 
warning means that the labour is as natural and 
free from risk as is the birth of their young to animals 
or of their children to less civilized women. It 
means that the mother is one whose physical per- 
fection has not been spoilt by the artificiality of 
civilization. If, therefore, this incident should 
happen to one of my readers, I pray her to take 
pride in her physical perfection, to be grateful for 
her easy childbirth, and not to blame the doctor, 
who, dealing above all men with imperfect and 
spoilt nature, is apt to be taken off his guard by 
perfection. To sum up, the first stage of labour, 
from the wife's point of view, is simple. She does 
not go to bed unless the doctor tells her to do so, 
as he may do in certain cases. But dressed in loose 
garments she sits in a chair and occasionally walks 
about, as she feels inclined. When the pain comes, 
she does not bear down, but if her back is very 
painful, she asks the nurse to rub her back. She 
passes her water as frequently as possible, and the 
nurse will give her an enema. She takes a little 
light nourishment, such as tea and thin bread and 
butter, or beef tea and soft bread, unless she is sick 
during the first stage. She is better with the nurse 
only, but there is no harm in her seeing her mother 
and husband, provided they are not in a state of 
nervous agitation. The ease with which she passes 
through this stage, depends largely upon her own 

247 



The Healthy Marriage. 

nervous organization and the confidence with which 
her nurse and doctor inspire her. It is not my duty 
in a book to tell her to be calm ; that I must leave 
to those who are with her. I can only assure her 
that childbirth is a natural process, though a dis- 
agreeable one, and that in the great majoiity of 
women it will accomplish itself, if foolish inter- 
ference is avoided, without harm to either herself 
or her child. 

The second stage of labour is ushered in by the 
breaking of the waters and the change in character 
of the pains. The breaking of the waters will 
immediately be evident to her by the fact that she 
suddenly becomes wet when a pain is upon her. 
The water is, in -itself, harmless, and does not 
permanently stain a carpet as blood does. 

The pains now, instead of being of an aching 
character, are pains that make her feel the definite 
need of expelling the child. This change in their 
character is usually quite distinct. With a pain 
she becomes red in the face, she closes her lips and 
strains, hardening her abdominal muscles, in order 
to assist the expulsion of the child. And she does 
definitely assist. In the second stage, bearing 
down, as this straining is called, is of the greatest 
use in hastening the birth of the child. Sometimes, 
when the pain is very severe, she cries out, and if 
she first strains and then cries out, it does not matter. 
But, if she cries out from the beginning of the pain, 
the birth of the child will be delayed owing to the 
lack of her assistance, and she will have to endure 
her pains for a longer time. 

She will now go to bed, and if the doctor is not 
248 



The Second Stage. 

already in the house, he will be immediately sum- 
moned. He is very necessary for this stage, though 
once more I must insist that labour is a natural 
process, and in most cases he will not have to do any- 
thing to actively assist. But he is necessary, firstly 
so that he may see that all is well, and if all is not well 
to do what is required, and secondly, to give con- 
fidence to the woman. Both of these services are 
particularly necessary in the case of a woman with 
her first child. The first childbirth is the one that 
excites most anxiety and alarm, and this anxiety and 
alarm cannot be better assuaged than by the presence 
of a doctor, for the woman then knows she has skill 
and experience in her service. The doctor need not 
necessarily be in the room the whole time. Some- 
times he will conclude that it is better for him to be 
in another room until the nurse sends for him. He 
will not stay in the room, for instance, when his 
presence frightens away the pains, as it may do even 
in the second stage. But he will have everything 
ready so that he can act immediately, if he considers 
it necessary to do so or when the child is actually 
being born into the world, at which time he will be 
present as a matter of course, and in fact for some 
considerable time before the baby is born. 

He may or may not make a vaginal examination 
after the waters break. As I have already said, in 
the majority of cases it is unnecessary. It never 
hastens labour one whit, but sometimes it is wise to 
make one. A woman need not fear she will have 
the disagreeableness of much taking of the pains 
nowadays. 

The nurse, of course, remains in the room with the 
249 



The Healthy Marriage. 

wife. She keeps the room at a proper temperature, 
and sees that it is well ventilated, for a woman in 
labour wants plenty of fresh air. She also keeps her 
patient covered with sufficient clothing, for often she 
will shiver, although she does not often feel cold in 
spite of her shivering. If she does a cup of hot tea 
and hot-water bottles will make her warm. The 
nurse rolls up her nightgown to prevent it being 
soiled and puts socks on her feet if they are cold. 
She also helps her patient to pass her water. Some- 
times the bladder gets too full, from the woman being 
unable to pass her water. Hot flannels over the 
pubis will usually make her do so. Sometimes 
the doctor finds it necessary to pass a catheter to 
draw the water. This is a comparatively simple 
and painless matter and need not be dreaded by the 
patient. 

The nurse will also keep the external parts clean 
that they may be clean for the passage of the child. 
This causes no pain at all. A woman in England 
is commonly delivered on her left side, a method 
sanctified by convention as convenient for the doctor 
and pleasant for his patient, for by it she suffers from 
the least possible exposure, but mechanically very 
disadvantageous. She need not, however, lay on 
her side for the whole of the second stage. Labour 
is quicker if she lies on her back, propped up by 
pillows. 

The chief thing that the wife has to do in order to 
help labour is to bear down or make straining efforts 
with the pains in order to hasten the passage of the 
child. This she herself will feel only too ready to do. 
Jhe nurse puts a hassock or foot-stool at her feet, 

25 



Bearing-down. 

She also ties one end of the roller towel to the end of 
the bed and gives the other end to her patient. 
When the wife feels a pain beginning she places her 
feet firmly against the hassock, grips the roller towel, 
sets her teeth together, holds her breath and pulls 
hard with the pain. Towards the end of the pain, 
if she feels inclined, she can cry out, but if she cries 
out at the beginning all the extra force that is 
obtained by her straining is wasted. When she is 
bearing down the doctor or nurse can give her 
considerable help, if she is on her side, by pressing a 
knee into the small of the back and pressing with the 
hand placed over the dome of the womb. Some- 
times, however, this gives her pain and therefore is 
omitted. Between the pains she removes her feet 
from the hassock and stretches out her legs straight. 
This she does in order to save herself from cramp in 
the legs, which is apt to occur at this stage. If she 
has cramp, the nurse can relieve her pain by a 
vigorous rubbing of her legs. 

The pains of the second stage become longer in 
duration, more painful, and with shorter intervals 
between them as labour progresses. Certain signs 
now show themselves, by which the doctor and nurse 
know that labour is well advanced. The doctor will 
now certainly stay in the room. 

It is at this period that chloroform is usually 
begun. The doctor gives the patient a lint mask to 
hold over her mouth and nose, and drops chloroform 
from a drop bottle upon the mask. The patient 
inhales the vapour deeply at the advent of a pain. 
When the pain has passed she continues to inhale the 
vapour, and when a further pain comes the doctor 

251 



The Healthy Marriage. 

drops more chloroform on the mask. In this way 
the patient is kept lightly under and does not feel 
pain. If more deeply under the 'mask falls from 
her hand and she breathes air only, until again in 
the condition of light anaesthesia. In this way all 
danger from the chloroform is obviated. The one 
disadvantage of its use is that it tends to take away 
the pains, and has then to be discontinued. 

A new method of anaesthesia during labour is that 
which is brought about by injections under the 
skin, and is known popularly as " twilight sleep." 
The name gives its effect. The patient is kept 
asleep, but on the borderland of wake. She can be 
made to answer questions, and groans during the 
pains. It is not generally used yet. It has great 
advantages. It can be used from the beginning to 
the end of labour. The doctor has to be present 
during its exhibition, and it can, therefore, only be 
used throughout labour, if he can spare the time. 
It is not invariably effective or wise. The child is 
often blue-looking and sluggish at birth, but recovers 
quickly. I have used it in private cases and seen 
it charm away the pains and terror of childbirth. 

If, in the course of the second stage of labour, the 
doctor thinks it advisable to use the forceps, those 
long thin metal hands which grasp the child's head 
and enable the doctor to pull the child out, or if he 
deem that some other manipulative treatment is 
necessary, then he will put his patient more deeply 
under chloroform. She need not be afraid. There 
is practically no danger at all in her having even 
deep chloroform, for women in labour bear chloro- 
form with exceptional ease. I would only warn 

252 



Chloroform. 

her here that in some of these manipulative treat- 
ments the child will not always be born when 
she comes round from the chloroform. In some 
cases the manipulation has for its object not the 
birth of the child but the putting of the child in 
such a position as will enable it to be born. In rare 
cases, for instance, the child lies across the womb 
and cannot be born at all, and the doctor has to put 
it into a position in which it can be born. 

But in ordinary cases of labour, when the patient 
comes round from the chloroform she finds that the 
child is born. Not infrequently there is sonie 
tearing of the hinder wall of the front passage due to 
the passage of the head of the child. In women with 
their first child this tear is very common, and in later 
deliveries it is by no means rare. This tear has to be 
stitched up. To leave it unstitched is bad treatment, 
for an unstitched tear leads to many troubles sooner 
or later when the woman is on her feet again. Some 
doctors stitch these tears immediately after the child 
is born, when their patients are still benumbed by 
chloroform. Others wait until the afterbirth has 
been born. Even if they wait, stitching rarely 
causes much pain, for the parts have been so 
stretched that women do not feel the passage of the 
needle as they would normally. 

When the woman comes round from the chloro- 
form, she will probably find herself lying on her back 
or she will soon be placed on her back. The child is 
born, the third stage of labour, in which the after- 
birth is delivered, has begun, and this stage is 
conducted with the woman on her back. The child 
lies between her legs and she will probably hear it 

253 



The Healthy Marriage. 

cry. Soon after its birth the cord is tied in two 
places with thread soaked in antiseptic and cut 
between the ligatures with scissors that have also 
been surgically cleansed. The child is then taken 
away from the mother. If it cries and is lively the 
nurse wraps it up in a flannel and puts it somewhere, 
where it is warm and out of the way. If it appears 
lifeless or feeble, then the doctor takes it, and, by 
different treatments, brings life to it, unless it is 
actually stillborn. He then turns to the mother 
again, and attends to her during the delivery of the 
after-birth. This is in nearly all cases a simple 
matter. 

After the birth of the child the womb rests. The 
pains cease for a few minutes. Then one or more 
pains recur with the object of bringing the afterbirth 
into the world. The pains are, however,- not severe 
pains, and the mother can rest assured that with the 
birth of her child her troubles are really over. These 
pains produce the afterbirth usually within half an 
hour of the child either alone or with some slight 
assistance on the part of the doctor. Trouble with 
the delivery of the afterbirth is so unusual that the 
mother need not consider it, nor need she trouble 
about haemorrhage, which is equally rare in well- 
conducted labour. If there is trouble with the after- 
birth or if there is haemorrhage, she has the doctor 
by her and he will know what to do. Part of his 
treatment will probably be giving his patient a hot 
douche and this she will not find unpleasant. 

But in nearly all cases a doctor will find no 
necessity to douche his patient, so that all that 
remains to be done after the delivery of the after- 

254 



The Pad and Binder. 

birth is to get her as clean and tidy as possible, to put 
on the binder and then to let her rest, the doctor 
staying with her and in the house for a while in order 
to be sure that all is well. 

First the nurse or doctor scoops the fluid and 
blood that have been lost in the childbirth into the 
bath lying at the side of the bed. The doctor then 
turns his patient on her left side and gently cleanses 
the outside of the private parts with pledgets of wool 
soaked in a mild antiseptic. He turns her on her 
back again, lifts her up a little and wipes her buttocks 
dry with a clean towel. He takes a pad of gamgee 
tissue, ten inches by four inches wide and two inches 
thick, which has been scorched at the fire, and when 
cool places it against the front passage. A dry pad 
is far more comfortable to the patient than a wet one. 
He again lifts her a little and the nurse pulls away 
the draw-sheet and upper mackintosh and the 
mother now lies upon the binder and the clean draw- 
sheet beneath it. The doctor then adjusts the 
binder, the support of which is grateful to the mother. 
Moreover, if she have a tear, which, of course, has 
been stitched, the binder keeps her legs pressed 
together. The binder is said to preserve the figure, 
and women, therefore, do not like it to be omitted. 
I do not believe the binder has this virtue. I have 
seen many mothers in different parts of the world, 
where the binder is unknown, and they have as good 
and often better figures than women who have had 
binders ; indeed, so good have their figures been that 
strangers never took them for married women. The 
binder is certainly not a natural thing, and a great 
deal of proof is necessary to show that any unnatural 

255 



The Healthy Marriage. 

tight girding does good. I am often amused at 
writers who cannot find language strong enough to 
denounce the corset and are equally emphatic in 
advocating the binder. If a mother desires a binder 
I put one on, but if she does not desire it I do not 
insist upon it, for I think it possible that a tight 
binder and flatulence combined lead to malposition 
of the womb. If she is indifferent I put on the 
binder, for it is better to do the conventional thing 
to indifferent women, lest, if omitted, they blame 
one afterwards. 

Plenty of bedclothes are now put over the mother 
and a hot bottle put in her bed, for she often feels 
cold after labour. She will now want to see her baby, 
and if it is ready it will be brought to her. She 
may notice that the child's head has a peculiar 
shape or a swelling upon it, and, if forceps have been 
used, she may notice marks upon the sides of its 
head, but she need not worry, for this moulding of 
the child's head and local swelling are due to the 
pressure of labour upon it, and pass away in a day 
or two. So, too, the marks of the forceps will pass 
away. The doctor will probably tell the nurse to 
put the child to the breast for a few minutes. There 
will be no free flow of milk, but the suction draws 
out the nipples and also reflexly helps the firm 
set of the womb which follows labour. The baby 
is then removed, the mother, if thirsty, has a small 
cup of tea or a little water, and the mother encour- 
aged to sleep after her travail. The room should 
not be darkened, for the nurse, who stays in the 
room, must have a good light so that she can watch 
the colour of her patient. The doctor, satisfied that 

256 



When no Doctor is Present. 

all is well with both mother and child, gives his final 
instructions, and leaves. Labour is over and the 
lying-in period begins. 

Such is labour with nurse and doctor. Not 
infrequently, however, in women who have already 
had a child, labour is so quick that the baby is born 
before the doctor arrives. If the nurse is present, 
this does not matter very much, for such quick 
labours are obviously easy labours, and are quite 
safe when a trained and capable nurse is with 
the mother. She knows what to do. She knows 
when to cut the child's cord, what to do to the 
baby if it does not breathe properly, how to deliver 
the afterbirth if the doctor is still absent, to keep 
the afterbirth for his inspection when he arrives. 
She has been taught and examined in these matters 
and her certificate shows that she has certainly 
had the knowledge at one time, just as a doctor's 
degree shows that at one time he had the requisite 
skill and knowledge to satisfy his seniors. Con- 
sequently there is very little danger in such quick 
labours when a nurse is present. 

Sometimes, however, even the nurse is not present. 
In such a case anyone in authority, who is with the 
mother, should send either a servant or neighbour 
for a doctor at once and also for a nurse, and bring 
one or other or both back with them to the house. 
In the meanwhile the baby is born. I would advise 
anyone with the mother at such time not to cut the 
cord. Even if the afterbirth is also born, there is 
no harm in leaving the baby joined to it, until either 
doctor or nurse arrives. But if the baby does not 
appear to breathe, then it lies with the attendant to 

H.M. 257 17 



The Healthy Marriage. 

do her best to restore life to the child. She must 
take some clean thread or fine string and tie it 
round the cord in two places close to each other and 
about two inches from the baby's navel, tying tight 
knots. She must not waste time boiling the thread. 
She then severs the cord between the knots with 
clean scissors. The baby is now free. She wipes 
out the baby's mouth with a piece of her handker- 
chief, fitted over her little finger. She turns the 
baby over on its side and gives it some smart smacks 
upon the back and buttocks. This usually makes 
the baby cry, and, if it cries, then all is well. If it 
does not cry, let her take some brandy or whisky 
and rub the baby's body, back and front, with it. 
Meanwhile, if theie is someone to help her, he or she 
should prepare a hot bath in a footbath, a baby's 
bath or large basin. The attendant takes the baby 
and, supporting its head in her hand, plunges it into 
the hot water, in which she must be able to bear her 
hand easily. This sudden plunge usually makes 
the baby gasp. If it does not, let her take the baby 
out, dab it quickly with a towel and again plunge 
it into the bath. If it still does not breathe properly, 
or not breathe at all, she can do no more. She 
should wrap it lightly in a flannel and wait till the 
doctor or nurse arrives. If anything is amiss with 
the mother, all she can do is to send or telephone for 
a doctor to come with all speed. 



258 



CHAPTER XX. 
The Lying-in. 

" To a mother a child is everything ; but to a child a 
parent is only a link in the chain of its existence." Disraeli. 

THE doctor will usually call and see the mother 
within eight hours of the birth of the child, but if 
the child was born at 10 p.m. he would not call at 
6 a.m., but after breakfast. In the meantime, what 
is the mother to expect ? 

She will naturally spend the time completely at 
rest. She will most probably sleep, the nurse sitting 
by her or going in every now and then to lightly feel 
her pulse and see that it is slowing down, as it should 
do after labour. When she wakens she can have 
some light nourishment. She can have an egg 
beaten up in milk, milk-and-soda, arrowroot, jelly, 
bread-and-butter and tea or other light food. She 
should also pass her water within twelve hours of 
the child's birth. To do this she first rolls over on 
her face, and with the nurse's help she gets on her 
hands and knees, keeping her thighs pressed to- 
gether if she has been stitched. In this way, as a 
rule, she will experience no difficulty in doing so. 
If she cannot do so, the nurse will place hot flannels 
over the lower abdomen or place her on the bed pan 
in which hot water has been poured, so that steam 
rises. If these measures fail, then either the doctor 

259 17-3 



The Healthy Marriage. 

or nurse will have to pass a catheter and draw off 
the water. This is not painful, but is not agree- 
able. Fortunately, it is a treatment that rarely has 
to be repeated, for the only reasons why a woman 
cannot pass her water are either bruising of the 
passage during labour or loss of the tone of the 
abdominal muscles, both of which conditions re- 
cover, except in rare cases, within twenty-four hours 
of the child's birth. 

Sometimes, when the labour or loss of blood has 
weakened the patient, it is not, at first, wise to let 
her roll over on her hands and knees to pass her 
water. When it is wise and when not wise rests 
with the doctor. The mother in the first twenty- 
four hours will require five to six light meals of 
the foods above mentioned. Oranges and grapes 
are also pleasant to take. She can have as much 
fluid as she likes. I say this, because some nurses 
restrict her fluids, and she suffers greatly from 
thirst in consequence. There is no harm in her 
having plenty of water, home-made lemonade, 
barley water or other bland drink. It will not 
make her sick, unless she gulps down a tumblerful 
at a rush. Even if she has had prolonged chloro- 
form she can have as much fluid as she likes, pro- 
vided she drinks slowly and a little at a time, and 
stops if this makes her feel sick. She will find it 
easy to drink from the feeder which she bought 
before labour. 

In this twenty-four hours, when she is awake, the 
baby will be brought to her. There is no reason 
for keeping the baby away, provided it is seen that 
she does not go to sleep with the baby at her side, 

260 



Involution of the Womb. 

for she might injure it when turning in her sleep. 
If she appears or feels inclined to sleep, the baby 
should be taken out of her bed and put in its cot. 
The baby, in addition to occasional teaspoonfuls of 
warm water, if its mouth is dry, should be put to 
the breast for ten minutes three times in the first 
twenty-four hours. This is valuable to both mother 
and child. It stimulates the breast to produce 
milk, draws out the nipple and stimulates the womb 
to remain firm and not get flabby with consequent 
excess of discharge and after-pains. The large 
womb, which weighs some thirty-five ounces, 
shrinks in six weeks, until it weighs only one and a 
half ounces. This process is called involution, and 
its normal course from the first day onwards is 
certainly helped by suckling. 

The question of visitors in the first twenty-four 
hours is one that depends greatly upon the tempera- 
ment of the mother. It is a question, therefore, 
for the judgment of the doctor, and he will leave 
instructions with the nurse and husband. The 
husband himself can, of course, see his wife as soon 
as she has rested, and can pay her short visits. Her 
own mother will probably wish to see her, and there 
is, as a rule, no reason why she should be forbidden. 
For the rest, it entirely depends upon the character 
of the woman and the character of her friends. 
Anyone whose injudicious talk will excite or alarm 
her must be forbidden the room, and to be on the 
safe side it is best, always, to forbid such would-be 
visitors. Even the husband has sometimes to be 
forbidden. For instance, at the Rotunda Hospital 
we had a patient, already in the fourth day of the 

261 



The Healthy Marriage 

lying-in period, whose husband visited her and 
spoke sharply to her. She had previously been 
quite normal in pulse and temperature. At 5 p.m. 
her temperature, when taken, was 103 and her 
pulse 96. At 10 p.m. her temperature was 98 
again and her pulse 76, and neither ever rose again. 
This was clearly a case of nervous temperature ; at 
least, we could find no other reason for it than the 
fright she received from her husband. The case 
also shows the importance of keeping lying-in 
women from disturbing effects. 

There is no need for the bowels to be opened in 
the first twenty-four hours. It is better for the 
woman to avoid such disturbance. If she had an 
enema before childbirth she will not, as a rule, feel 
any desire to have them opened. There will, of 
course, be red discharge from the womb after child- 
birth, and this the nurse will see is soaked up by the 
sanitary towels. These she will change as often as 
there is need, usually every two or three hours for 
the first day or two, and she will clean the parts 
carefully with antiseptics, wiping with a swab of 
wool from before, backwards, using one swab for 
one wipe. If the discharge seems too large in 
amount and if there is any quickening of the pulse 
accompanying it, the nurse will inform the doctor 
by letter or telephone at once. 

The room must be ventilated every three or 
four hours if the weather is cold. If warm, the 
window should be kept open at the top or bottom. 

For the first night the baby should not sleep in 
the mother's room, lest its crying spoil her sleep. 

In the second twenty-four hours the baby should 
262 



The Milk. 

be put to the breast six times. There is rarely 
milk yet, but if there is so much the better. The 
true milk usually comes on the third day, some- 
times it does not appear until the fifth. If it 
appears late, the mother should still persevere, for^ 
the milk is sure to come. The baby must be given 
ample opportunity to suck, and must not be taken 
away if at first it does not succeed in taking the 
nipple. The nurse can usually manage to press the 
nipple out. If it will not come out, then the 
" Infantibus " nipple shield should be used. This 
nipple shield clings by suction to the breast, whereas 
other nipple shields slip. It is the most valuable 
adjunct to suckling that has been invented. With 
its use the nipple, if depressed, will be drawn out in 
a day or two, so that the baby can take the nipple 
directly. With it there is no possible excuse for 
not suckling the child on the score of depressed or 
ill-developed nipples. Two " Infantibus " shields 
should be kept, so that the nurse can use one and 
cleanse the other, in the way which she has been 
taught, keeping it in washing soda, scrubbing it, 
and boiling it, at least, once a day. If the baby 
does not take the shield, let the nurse squeeze out 
a little of the secretion of the breast and wet the 
nipple of the nipple shield. This will induce the 
baby to suck. 

Before feeding, the nipples of the breast are 
washed with a little warm water and some clean 
linen. After a feed, they are again washed with a 
solution of boric acid, followed by water, and finally 
dabbed with a solution of equal parts of brandy and 
water to keep the skin of them firm, If the skin gets 

263 



The Healthy Marriage. 

rubbed off, a sore nipple may develop or a painful 
cracked nipple. These are readily cured by some 
simple treatment, such as the use of friar's balsam, 
if in addition to the treatment the " Infantibus " 
shield is also used. These cracked nipples, there- 
'fore, no longer offer an excuse for the giving-up of 
suckling. Many German doctors of great repute, 
by using these shields, have been able to get every 
mother without exception to suckle her child. 
Only in the very rare cases of severe illnesses, there- 
fore, need the mother's breast be refused to the 
child. The moral responsibility of not suckling her 
child rests wholly upon the mother and the ill-advice 
sometimes given her by her friends and the nurse. 
Personally I think the present fashion of mothers 
refusing the breast to their children is deplorable. 
Never in the world's history in any countries 
outside European civilization is there to be found 
an instance of a mother, not afflicted with grievous 
disease or subjected by some weighty reason, not 
suckling her child. The fault, however, lies very 
largely with the medical profession, for women all 
the world over follow a fashion, whereas suckling 
is one of the things as regards which the medical 
profession are trained and under bond to see pro- 
perly carried out. The nation entrusts its health 
and the health of its children in our hands, and it is 
our bounden duty by authority, instruction and 
persuasion, to see that the babies are nourished with 
the natural milk and that the strong bond that 
unites the mother to the child she has suckled 
should be secured, for such love is of the utmost 
social value. It is really our fault that so much 

264 



.Suckling. 

artificial feeding exists, and with this nipple shield 
any excuse we make on the score of depressed or 
sore nipples has no justification. The only genuine 
justification for not giving the breast to the baby is 
serious illness on the part of the mother or cleft 
palate of the baby, which prevents it sucking. I 
do not believe that there exists a healthy mother 
who is not provided with the proper milk for her 
child. Nature has not given her a womb in which 
to bear her child and forgotten to give her the proper 
breasts for its nourishment. Such an idea or excuse 
is patently absurd. 

From the third day the baby should be put to 
the breast every two hours during the day and 
once between n p.m. and 7 a.m. If the mother 
wants full rest the first few nights, the baby can 
sleep in another room and be taken in once in the 
night to its mother. Then its cot should be placed 
by her bed, and by day it should also be by her bed. 
By the fifth or sixth day she will be able to lift it 
in and out herself, if all is well with her. She should 
take the baby into her own bed by day, provided 
that she does not feel inclined to fall asleep. The 
baby likes the warmth of her body and will sleep 
better at her side than in its cot. Moreover, its 
little body against the mother's will promote her 
love for her baby, and love is a very important social 
factor. I do not hold with the pedantic doctors 
and nurses who separate the mother and child. A 
mother loves to watch the baby's face and feel its 
little hands, and all love should be encouraged as a 
source of personal health, of purposeful life, right 
guardianship, and social strength. Those who 

265 



The Healthy Marriage. 

attempt to separate mother and babe on hygienic 
grounds are to be compared to the cranks who 
attempt to forbid kissing also on hygienic grounds. 
There are things in this world that far surpass 
hygiene in importance and must be placed above 
the reach of science. 

The baby does not require butter-and-sugar, a 
little castor oil, or any of the other concoctions some 
nurses desire to give it. They are wholly unneces- 
sary. The baby's toilet and the guidance of its 
health belong, as subjects, to the books for mothers 
and not to one for wives. 

The food the mother receives on the second day 
of the lying-in should be the same as she had in 
the first twenty-four hours, with fish or the breast 
of chicken for lunch or dinner. On the evening of 
the second day the mother is given an aperient if 
the bowels have not already been opened. The 
system being properly cleared, she will now be able 
to take what she likes, and to eat at ordinary meal- 
times, provided it causes her no indigestion. For 
this reason her ordinary diet is the best for her, for 
it is the one to which her digestive organs are 
accustomed. If she is accustomed to a little wine 
or beer there is no harm in her having it, and it is 
probably an aid to a digestion accustomed to it. 
But if, during pregnancy, she has had no alcohol, 
there is no need for her to have it during the lying-in 
and suckling period. There is a popular notion that 
stout enriches the milk. In Munich, famous for 
its beer, there is a popular saying that beer gives 
strength. Both sayings have much the same basis. 
The old style of nurse liked stout. She took it, she 

266 



The Mother's Diet. 

had the usual self-approval, and, therefore, stout was 
good. Consequently stout got a reputation, but its 
reputation will not stand a searching examination. 
There are millions of women who suckle and rear 
the healthiest children without touching stout. The 
only value in the stout from the point of view of the 
milk is that 'milk requires water and that stout 
introduces water into the system. But it is better 
that a woman should take water alone than stout. 

Similarly, it is an error to think that milk produces 
milk. Drinking cow's milk will not have any direct 
effect upon the breast milk. Its effect is indirect, 
for milk is a liquid food. Any other fresh foods 
accompanied by water have the same effect upon the 
breast milk. Indeed, if milk is taken between meals 
it is harmful, for it tends to take away a woman's 
appetite. With the meals, it is a very wholesome 
drink, and a hot glass of milk before sleeping is 
also beneficial. If a mother feels she wants some- 
thing between her meals a cup of beef tea is prefer- 
able to milk. 

The amount of food a lying-in woman should take 
should not be too large. A woman must not over- 
feed with the idea of keeping her strength up. The 
amount of food taken is obviously personal. It 
cannot be regulated by weight and measure. Over- 
feeding is seen when the woman feels a great distaste 
to the food pressed upon her and suffers from 
flatulence and indigestion. Both in the amount and 
kind of food and liquid she takes I recommend her 
to be guided by her general habits. The stomach 
does not want to be treated to one form of diet at 
one time and another at another. It has its familiar 

267 



The Healthy Marriage. 

pleasures ancf tastes, and is best pleased when these 
are regarded. 

Every day in the lying-in period the nurse will 
take the mother's morning and evening pulse and 
temperature and will record them on a chart. This 
chart is an almost sure indication of the general 
progress of a lying-in woman. Nearly all abnormal 
conditions of the lying-in period will cause a quicken- 
ing of the pulse or raised temperature, or both 
together. The chart, therefore, is an invaluable 
record to the doctor. It tells him at a glance when 
all is well or when to be on his guard. Of course, 
he makes other examinations as well when he calls. 
He feels the womb from the abdomen to see whether 
it is shrinking in the proper way. Between the 
tenth and fourteenth day he usually fails to feel it. 
After some six weeks the womb is quite small again. 
He also examines the discharge. This normally is 
red for some three days, then brown, and, becoming 
more watery, ceases about the fourteenth day, but 
so varied is it that no definite rules can be laid down. 
It may remain red for ten or more days. The doctor 
rarely makes a vaginal examination, and rarely gives 
a douche, for these things are not necessary in a 
normal lying-in. In the past douches in the lying-in 
period were given as a rule once a day, but all 
modern teaching and the experience of the most 
successful lying-in hospitals and clinics are against 
the routine use of the douche. 

There are occasions when the douche is required, 
these occasions being indicated by fever, quick pulse, 
or unpleasant character of the discharge. The 
uncivilized woman does not lie-in as does the civilized 

268 



Disadvantages of Lying-in. 

woman. She is upon her feet either soon after the 
birth of the child, or at any rate within a few hours, 
and there can be no question that she recovers from 
her labour better than does the civilized woman. 
The abdominal muscles, having action, recover their 
tone. She does not suffer from constipation. Her 
womb, which has not been squeezed and kneaded 
by an attendant at childbirth, is not bruised. Her 
upright position allows the discharge to run out 
properly. The position assumed when lying in bed 
is a bad position for the proper drainage of the 
discharge. It collects in the vagina, and there not 
infrequently it becomes foul, as all stagnant animal 
fluids tend to become foul. Fever results and the 
woman is made ill. A great deal of childbed fever 
has no other origin than this, it is a bed or bad 
drainage fever. To avoid this, douching used to be 
used, but douching was found to introduce germs in 
many cases, and, therefore, as a routine treatment 
has been largely abandoned. In order to get proper 
drainage in suitable cases with the assistance of the 
nurse, I let the patient sit upon the commode when 
the bowels are opened from the third day onwards. 
The nurse watches her patient and takes her pulse 
before and after to see whether the movement affects 
her. I have never found anything but good result 
from this permission, but I only allow it in suitable 
cases. This simple treatment alone will frequently 
cure foul discharge. In any case the mother should 
be allowed to turn over on her side in bed from the 
very first, if she feels strong enough to do so, to 
prevent the discharge collecting in the vagina and 
to permit it to drain into the pad. A collection of 

269 



The Healthy Marriage. 

foul discharge in the vagina is the real cause of the 
so-called milk-fever, for the discharge goes foul 
between the third and fifth days as a rule. 

The womb contracts periodically during the 
lying-in in order to squeeze out the discharge. As a 
rule these contractions are scarcely felt by the 
mother. In some women for the first five days or so 
of the lying-in they cause definite pain, gradually 
diminishing as the lying-in period progresses. They 
do not bother mothers with their first child, but are 
more common with later childbirths, especially if 
the womb has been much stretched, as by twins or 
a great quantity of water. Suckling of the child 
brings on the contractions of the womb and, there- 
fore, these after-pains, but as they are beneficial to 
the womb in that they squeeze out discharge and 
clotted blood, this is all to the good. If they are 
troublesome a hot bottle should be laid upon the 
lower part of the abdomen and this will soothe them. 
The doctor will also give a medicine, which helps the 
womb to contract, but at the same time mitigates 
the pain. 

The nurse attends to the sanitary towels, changing 
them whenever the discharge soaks through them. 
She also cleanses the outer parts morning ana 
evening. 

She washes the mother's body daily by sponging 
it with warm water. 

She adjusts the binder every day. It usually 
tends to ruck up quickly after adjustment and to 
become useless, if ever it has any use. It may be 
left off upon the seventh or tenth day. 

The nurse attends to the ventilation and warmth 
270 



Visitors Sleep. 

of the room. A fire is not necessary at night, unless 
the weather is exceptionally cold. No slops or dirty 
linen must be left in the room. 

As regards visitors to the lying-in woman, her 
husband, her children and her mother may see her 
and talk with her, provided she does not get tired. 
Other people are best kept away for a week, but the 
matter is one largely dependent upon temperament. 
There are some women who are all the better for 
seeing their friends. There is no need for her to be 
dull. She can have papers and books after she has 
had a good night's rest, and on the fourth day, if she 
feels inclined, she can sit propped up in bed and do 
any fancy work she likes. 

A lying-in woman should always try and sleep in 
the afternoon, and usually succeeds in doing so. 
She should sleep well at night. Sleep is most 
important to her. The lying-in period is a period of 
rest, and sleep is the best form of rest. If she fails 
to sleep the doctor must be told, and, if no doctor is 
in attendance, one should be consulted. Sleepless- 
ness in the lying-in period is a serious symptom and 
one not to be neglected. Veronal, obtained from 
the chemist, may be tried in mild cases, but if it fail 
for one night only then a doctor must be summoned 
without delay. 

When may a lying-in woman get up ? I would 
like to answer this by the bull that she should be 
getting up when she is in bed. I mean by this that 
if she is strong, she will be allowed out on the com- 
mode, when the bowels are open, she will be allowed 
on the fourth or fifth day to sit up when she is 
having her meals, she will move freely in bed, sit up 

271 



The Healthy Marriage. 

without support and generally display an activity 
which does not comport with staying in bed. Such 
indications combined with a steady pulse and 
temperature are those by which one can judge 
when a woman should get up. One also notes the 
discharge. If it is pale and slight in quantity, as 
it should be between the tenth and fourteenth days, 
then there is no hindrance to her getting up. If on 
the other hand the discharge is still red, delay or 
certainly caution is wise. If, upon getting up, the 
discharge becomes red, a woman should lie up until 
getting up does not cause it to become red. She 
lies up for two extra days and then tries again, 
noting and being guided by the colour of the 
discharge. 

Most women lie-in too long with the tendency 
there is to caution and invalidism in all these matters. 
I have allowed some mothers, whose labours I have 
conducted without any sort of interference at all, 
and without rubbing, kneading and bruising of the 
womb, to get up on the fourth day, as they seemed 
quite well and the discharge had ceased. They have 
never had cause to regret getting up, and their 
abdominal muscles and womb probably profit by 
the natural massage movement gives, feven if there 
is a slight discharge, there is no better position than 
the upright in order to permit of it running away. 
But only particularly healthy women can get up as 
early as the fourth day. 

As a general rule, the tenth day may be given as 
the day upon which a lying-in woman, in whom all 
is normal, may first get up. If labour has been 
troublesome, then it may be wise for the mother to 

272 



When to get up. 

stay in bed for a few more days. If there has been 
haemorrhage, if the patient has been torn and 
stitched, if she has been ill during the lying-in 
period, then she will get up when the doctor finds 
it is safe for her. For these conditions one can Jay 
down no rules. But if the labour and lying-in 
period have been normal, it is foolish for a woman 
to lie in bed for three weeks. Bed is the best thing 
for rest, but too much bed produces weakness. 
Many women who say they feel weak after child- 
birth, really feel weak because they have stayed 
in bed too long. They get weak by this prolonged 
stay in bed, at the very time when they want to be 
strong, namely at the beginning of the suckling 
period. For these reasons a woman should not 
stay in bed for over ten days, unless there are strong 
grounds for her doing so. 

The first few days she is up, she should rest for 
an hour in the afternoon on the sofa and go to bed 
early. She can go out for a drive or a short walk on 
the fourth day, and resume her ordinary life after 
she has been up for a week, provided she does not 
undertake any unusual or immoderate exertion. 
The womb, as has been said, takes six weeks 
in the process of shrinkage and some doctors 
advise their patients to rest for all these six 
weeks, but they are quite unable to explain why 
one should rest during a perfectly natural process 
that goes on throughout the human and mammal 
world. 

Moreover, as we progress in knowledge, so we 
learn that these processes are better performed when 
there is movement than when there is rest. Move- 

H.M. 273 18 



The Healthy Marriage. 

ment strengthens the body. Rest without corre- 
sponding exercise weakens and causes loss of appetite, 
constipation and indigestion. This loss of appetite, 
indigestion and constipation are above all to be 
avoided by suckling women. I, therefore, advise 
my readers, if the feelings of their own bodies tell 
them they feel well and desirous of action and 
exercise, not to stay in bed for over ten days, and by 
the eighteenth day to regard themselves as recovered 
from childbirth. I do not advise them to start 
flying about town or playing tennis. At least two 
months should elapse before the strenuous exercise 
of games other than croquet should be taken up, 
and then it should only be indulged in with great 
moderation during the suckling period. But shop- 
ping, housekeeping, house arts, visiting friends and 
such like employments will do a mother no harm 
when she has been up from bed for a week and feels 
in good health. I have found women who follow 
this course decidedly better in their health than 
women who live for weeks in a condition of semi- 
invalidism and dependence upon others. 

One point remains for consideration, namely, how 
to stop the milk in the event of the child being still- 
born or dying soon after its birth. To do so, a 
simple method is to spread an ointment, composed 
of one part of yellow wax and eight of olive oil and 
wanned before spreading, upon squares of lint. One 
square is laid over each breast, a hole being cut in 
the centre for the nipple. Glycerine of belladonna 
may be used instead of this ointment. Some cotton 
wool, also with a central hole, is then placed over 
each breast. Round the chest a firm binder is 

274 



The Breast Pump. 

bound. If the breasts become very engorged, the 
binder should be undone and a teaspoonful or so of 
milk removed by a breast pump, without disturbing 
the wool or lint. The breast pump must be used as 
sparingly as possible. 



275 18-2 



CHAPTER XXL 
Lactation. 

" A little thing consoles us, because a little thing afflicts 
us." Pascal. 

LACTATION or suckling, of course, begins in the 
lying-in period, but the term usually denotes the 
period between the end of the lying-in and weaning. 

Suckling is a natural process, and one has to 
protest at the outset against the common statement, 
to be found unfortunately in medical books as well 
as in popular speech, that suckling is an exhausting 
period. Because the child sucks milk from the 
mother's breasts, therefore the mother becomes 
weakened, such is the argument. This is not true. 
Healthy women are the better for suckling. They 
have love, they have fulfilled purpose and success 
to sustain them and give them power. If it is a 
woman's purpose to bear, love and suckle children, 
why should its attainment exhaust her ? Success 
and achievement strengthen, they do not weaken, 
and healthy women suckling their children often 
acquire an added bloom of beauty. A mother's 
zest for life is greater, her digestion is better, she 
feels within herself how good it is to live. Purpose 
and love are such great aids to health that they 
quite outweigh the effort of the daily manufacture 
of the milk. Suckling, in short, is an addition to 

276 



The Advantages of Suckling. 

and not a detraction from the health, if it is properly 
carried out. 

There is a further physiological fact that promotes 
the health of the suckling period. It is a wise 
provision of nature that a suckling mother very 
rarely becomes pregnant and she does not men- 
struate. Her physiology is by nature devoted to the 
child that is hers and not to further fertility. The 
rule is not invariable. Menstruation may occur 
during suckling and be followed by another preg- 
nancy. Should this occur, then the child must be 
weaned. But it occurs so rarely that practically it 
may be ignored. The ordinary marital relations, 
then, may be indulged in with due moderation with- 
out the fear of a new conception following quickly 
upon childbirth. This enables the inter-relation of 
husband and wife, which is a valuable asset to their 
good temper and feeling towards each other, to occur 
without the dread of a quick recurrence of pregnancy 
or the harassment that is so commonly associated 
with preventive measures. Good temper and free- 
dom from sexual anxiety on the part of the mother 
are definite factors in causing a sweet and healthy 
flow of the milk, and nature by a wise provision has 
aided their attainment. 

Great advantages, then, accrue to the healthy 
mother who suckles her child. Her own health is 
strengthened, her love for her child is firmly estab- 
lished upon foundations that will endure throughout 
her life, her husband, as the father of her child, is 
also secured more firmly in love towards her. Only 
the sickly mother should refrain from suckling when 
the doctor tells her to do so. It is rare to find a 

277 



The Healthy Marriage. 

mother without actual disease who cannot gain the 
advantages of suckling if she is properly guided. In 
fact, the question of non-suckling should scarcely 
occur, and it may be that a society in which it does 
so frequently occur as in the present is doomed to 
decay by the retributive justice of nature to such as 
affront the immutable laws which sanction human 
life. 

The mother gives the child one breast every two 
hours during the day and once during the night in 
the first month of its life. It might be said that it 
is more natural to wait until the child cries, for the 
child itself will so inform the mother when it desires 
food. Babies so fed are, I believe, as healthy as 
babies regularly fed. But regularity teaches both 
child and mother that there is a time for all things. 
That the child responds to regularity is seen by its 
tendency to wake up when feeding time arrives. 
If, on the other hand, it is fed whenever it cries, then 
the mother must be prepared for a long series of 
disturbed nights. 

Before putting the nipple in the child's mouth, it 
should be cleaned with some warm water and clean 
linen. When suckling is over, it should be again 
cleaned with water, followed by boric acid and a 
lotion of equal parts of brandy and water. The 
baby's mouth is also gently wiped out with warm 
water and with clean linen wrapped round the little 
finger. These precautions are taken to prevent the 
mother getting a sore nipple or a cracked nipple, 
which will cause her pain at suckling and may lead 
to an abscess of the breast. 

If she gets a sore or cracked nipple she should paint 

278 



Sore Nipples. 

the nipples twice a day with friar's balsam, washing 
it off before the child is fed. She should also make 
use of the " Infantibus " shields, which rest the 
nipple in a way that other nipple shields fail to do. 
The difficulties of depressed nipple and cracked 
nipple with the subsequent fear of abscess of the 
breast have been practically overcome by Dr. Stern's 
useful invention. 

After the end of the first month the baby should 
be fed every two and a half hours during the day and 
once at night ; after the third month three hourly 
feeds during the day and once at night ; after the 
fifth month three to three and a half hourly feeds by 
day and none at night. 

If the breasts become very full, a woman is some- 
times advised to rub them or to get some one to rub 
them with olive oil towards the nipple. This, I 
think, should only be done by a nurse, who has been 
properly taught at a school of massage. Rough and 
improper handling of the breast may promote 
inflammation and abscess. 

The heavy breasts are inclined to sag down, 
especially in women who have borne many children. 
This is uncomfortable and in hot weather may result 
in a moist eczema at the fold of the skin. A proper 
breast support, which may be bought at a draper's 
shop, is the remedy for sagging breasts. 

It is important, of course, for the mother to keep 
as healthy as possible during the suckling period. 
She should follow the lines laid down in the chapters 
on hygiene, for the rules of health during suckling 
are not different to those at other periods of life. A 
few special points will now be noted. 

279 



The Healthy Marriage. 

As regards food, the ordinary diet that is agreeable 
to the mother should be taken. Her digestion will 
be accustomed to it. Foods that give her indiges- 
tion and such foods as pastries and much spiced 
foods she should avoid. Green vegetables and fresh 
fruits, once supposed to be harmful to nursing 
women, can be taken as usual. They will do good, 
for they tend to prevent constipation. In the matter 
of drink, she should take plenty of fluid if fresh 
milk, at her meals only and not between her meals. 
Alcohol is unnecessary, but if she is accustomed to a 
little wine or beer she can take it. If she feels she 
wants something between meals, she should take a 
cup of beef tea or some jelly. If at any time she 
feels faint, she should sit or lie down and take an egg 
beaten up in milk. She must avoid overfeeding to 
keep her strength up, for it will give her indigestion 
and lower her strength. 

She should take plenty of exercise in the open air. 
As regards horse-riding, bicycling and tennis, if she 
is accustomed to them they will do her no harm 
after the second month, provided she indulges in 
them with care and moderation. An hour at a time 
of any of these exercises should be enough for her. 
Her shopping, visiting and walks with the perambu- 
lator, will give her exercise in the open air. 

She cannot well go to a ball without neglecting her 
child, but an hour or so of dancing at her own home 
or at a friend's will not do her any harm after the 
second month. If any of these exercises overtire 
her, or give her pain, then, as a matter of sense, she 
will give them up and confine her exercise to walking. 

There is no reason why she should not go to places 
280 



Amusement and Employment. 

of amusement, provided, of course, she does not 
leave the child too long. A nursing woman is apt 
to become depressed if her days are made too 
monotonous, and, if she becomes depressed, the 
quality and flow of the milk are one or both dimi- 
nished. Therefore, she should have amusements, 
but, of course, not be rushing after them. For 
similar reasons she must avoid worry. I have 
already said sufficient in previous chapters upon 
worry, but the astonishing fact may here be men- 
tioned that worry actually seems to reappear in the 
milk. Trouble or shocks so alter the milk that the 
baby sometimes becomes peevish and may get griped 
or have diarrhoea. The mother should have occupa- 
tions to employ her time and to prevent any worry 
she may have becoming aggressive. She will have 
her household duties and arts, her friends to see, and 
her baby. There is no reason, therefore, why a 
nursing mother should not be sufficiently employed. 

She should see that the bowels are opened regu- 
larly. For this purpose she should refer to pp. 197 to 
199. Strong purgatives should be avoided, for these 
drugs pass into the milk and often upset the child. 

The child is usually weaned in England in the 
ninth month. In China and other countries the 
child takes the breast in addition to other food, until 
it is three or even four years old. The breast is given 
to the child when it is thirsty. Children do well with 
this late breast feeding and pregnancy is avoided 
for three or four years. Late suckling, combined, 
of course, with some solid food, has, therefore, 
considerable sense and human approval, but it is rare 
in Western European civilization. Further it ob- 

281 



The Healthy Marriage. 

viates the use of cow's milk, and I believe cow's 
milk, though sometimes inevitable, is a dangerous 
food for infants, as it readily becomes infected. 

The child should not be weaned in hot weather, 
for, in cities especially, cow's milk is liable to 
become contaminated in hot weather and to cause 
severe and fatal diarrhoea. 

Sometimes a child has to be partly or wholly 
weaned before the ninth month, when either the 
mother or child is not doing well. Such cases of 
premature weaning should be decided by a medical 
man. If the mother become pregnant again, the 
child should be weaned. In such a case the milk 
tends of itself to dry up, often with some sudden- 
ness. If the mother acquire any chronic or acute 
disease during the suckling period, the child must 
be weaned quickly in a day or two. 

Ordinarily, weaning should occupy a month to 
two months. The breasts should be treated as 
described upon p. 274. At first one, then a second, 
then a third breast rneal should be omitted in 
the twenty-four hours, and the bottle or spoon- 
feed substituted for it, until the breast milk is 
omitted altogether. 

The menses may occasionally begin during 
suckling, but are not a reason for weaning. After 
weaning they appear again. At first they may be 
irregular and a woman may lose more, and for a 
longer time than she is accustomed to do. This 
need not cause her to worry, for regularity estab- 
lishes itself in a month or two. If the excessive 
loss is sufficient to make her feel ill or to look pale, 
she should consult her doctor. 

282 



CHAPTER XXII. 
The Change of Life. 

" The world's a scene of changes, and to be 
Constant, in Nature were inconstancy." 

Cowley. 

THE change of life, or menopause, is the term 
applied to the period of time when a woman is 
passing from the condition in which it is possible 
for her to have children to the condition when it is 
not possible, owing to the decline and eventual 
cessation of her sexual quality. 

The most conspicuous sign of the change of life 
is the change in and final cessation of the menses, 
but there are a number of other accompanying 
signs. Some of these are obvious to the woman 
herself, some are only known to medically trained 
men. With the former this chapter will deal, with 
the anatomical and functional changes in the womb 
and ovaries, which are associated with the symptoms, 
the chapter will not deal. It is sufficient to state 
that all the generative organs undergo atrophy. 

The age at which the change of life sets in i 
various. In Northern Europe it usually sets in 
between the ages of forty and fifty, most commonly 
between forty-five and fifty. If it does not occur in 
this decade, it is more usual for it to begin after fifty 
than before forty. It rarely begins before thirty- 
five or after fifty-five. 

283 



The Healthy Marriage. 

The causes which tend to produce an early onset 
of the change of life are those, which, in general, 
have had a weakening effect upon the woman. Such 
are a succession of exhausting pregnancies, severe 
fever after childbirth, the death of a much loved 
husband, the troubles of unexpected poverty, a life 
of sterility, and the destruction of health by disease. 
Excessive stoutness is also associated with an early 
onset of the change of life. Sometimes the change 
may unexpectedly follow a pregnancy or mis- 
carriage which has been accompanied by severe 
haemorrhage ; it may even follow a pregnancy with- 
out haemorrhage. Prolonged lactation stretching 
over three years is said sometimes to induce an 
early change of life. The change is usually late in 
its onset in women who have led healthy and suc- 
cessful sexual lives, who have been happily married, 
have had several children, whom they suckled, and 
who have enjoyed good health. 

Menstruation may in rare cases cease at a com- 
paratively early age and, after an interval of some 
years, may recommence. These rare cases are very 
peculiar, for pregnancy may actually occur in the 
interval of no menstruation. The recrudescence of 
menstruation may be due to other causes, and there- 
fore is always a reason for asking medical advice. 

The time occupied by the change of life is also 
various. Sudden and permanent cessation of men- 
struation, whether occurring at the usual date or 
not, is commonly consequent upon something ab- 
normal, such as childbirth with severe haemorrhage, 
an acute infective fever, or a great shock. It is, 
therefore, associated with some grave condition, 

284 



The Alteration of the Menses. 

which in itself causes a woman to place herself in 
the hands of a medical man. 

It is usual, of course, for the change of life to 
begin gradually and occupy many months in its 
fulfilment ; indeed, some three years may be said 
to be the average period during which some 
symptoms of the change are felt by a woman. 
Sometimes it occupies as many as five years. 

The prominent sign of the change is the altera- 
tion in the menstruation. This alteration may be 
summed up in the loss of regularity and usualness. 
The regular interval between the menses changes, 
and the regular amount lost at the menses also 
changes. It is usual for the length of time between 
the menses to increase. Instead of being twenty- 
eight days the interval becomes one of six weeks, 
ten weeks, six months, a year even, and then again 
shorter intervals. The irregularity is so great 
that in each woman it shows some peculiarity. 
In quantity the same irregularity and inconstancy 
is shown. Usually, the flow is scantier. In rare 
cases scantiness of flow without marked change in 
the intervals between the menses is seen. In other 
cases there is an increase of flow, which may amount 
to actual flooding, making the woman pale, and 
this may be followed by a scanty flow at the next 
period. The changes, generally, are so varied that 
detailed description is useless, every variety and 
combination of varieties occurring. A woman, there- 
fore, need not be alarmed by any peculiarity she 
thinks is hers. I advise her, however, whatsoever 
the particular form of change that occurs, always 
to consult her doctor. To my mind, for a woman to 

285 



The Healthy Marriage. 

ask advice whensoever the regularity of her periods 
is changed, with the exceptions mentioned in the 
chapter upon menstruation, is a golden rule for the 
care of her health. There are some serious causes 
to changes in the character of the menstruation, and 
these serious causes screen themselves, as it were, 
behind natural causes, and are overlooked in this 
way. But if a woman follows this rule, they will 
not be overlooked, unless their nature is so obscure 
as to escape a medical man. 

A great number of other changes occur with the 
change of life besides the alteration in the character 
of the menstruation. Indeed, the term change of 
life itself is a very apt and descriptive one. The 
change is a complete change. The whole constitu- 
tion of the woman and the view of life she tends to 
take alters. Again, the effect of the change upon 
women is as variable as are their characters. Upon 
the healthy and maternally successful women the 
change of life does not, as a rule, lay a heavy hand. 
Indeed, it seems scarcely to affect them. They 
glide smoothly into the period of honourable age. 
Such, clearly, is the positive natural course. It 
should be possible to live without the infliction of 
critical years, and it is possible. It is, fortunately, 
not infrequent. But there is also the less happy 
picture. There are, unfortunately, a number of 
women who do suffer at this time. They feel the 
irregularities and eruptions of the transition period 
very markedly. They pass through a period of 
physiological anarchy. Consequently, the change 
of life has been called the " critical age." In its 
manifestations and diversities it is undoubtedly a 

286 



The Critical Age. 

critical age, and it is even asserted that there is a 
greater mortality at this period than at other times 
of life. Other statisticians, on the other hand, 
contradict this assertion. But whatsoever figures 
may say, common experience shows us that the term 
" critical age " is thoroughly justified. 

The kind of women who suffer most at the change 
of life are those who have suffered before the change 
of life sets in. A stable constitution can endure a 
period of anarchy, but a weakly one suffers pro- 
portionately. Consequently it is wise to enter into 
this period of life in the best s+ate of health possible. 
At any time ill-health is troublesome and depressing, 
but one may say that ill-health during the change of 
life is ill-health multiplied by two or even four. 

If one had to name the particular feature of the 
change of life, apart from, though associated with, 
the changes in menstruation, it is the anarchy, as it 
were, of the circulation of the blood and of the 
nervous system. Congestions and aberrations of the 
blood and nerves cause the various disagreeable 
symptoms from which women suffer at this time. 
Thus the circulating system is guilty of strange 
doings, which at other times might excite alarm. 
Not only is there a tendency to flooding, which itself 
is an unusual feature of the circulatory system, but 
there are apt to be haemorrhages from other parts. 
Nose-bleeding is the commonest of these forms, and 
the bleeding, unless severe, is a welcome relief to a 
full-blooded woman. It is interesting to note that 
the end of menstruation not infrequently repeats the 
character of its onset in this and other symptoms, so 
that if nose-bleeding was a characteristic of the 

287 



The Healthy Marriage. 

period of the onset of menstruation, it is likely to be 
a character of the change of life. The same, indeed, 
may be said of indigestion, nervous conditions, or any 
other symptoms. 

Another distressing irregularity of the circulatory 
system that may vex a woman at the change of life 
is palpitation. Following upon some exertion or 
emotion, or for no apparent reason, the heart begins 
to throb. The throbbing heart causes the greatest 
discomfort to a woman. She feels a rush of blood 
to the head, her head is hot with severe headache, 
her cheeks burn, she sees little black things dancing 
before her eyes, she hears a buzzing noise in her head, 
she is giddy, she thinks she is going to faint her pulse 
beats very rapidly, she feels she is going to choke, she 
is sure that there is something seriously wrong with 
her heart and she lives in dread that she will be 
visited by a stroke. But she can be assured that 
there is nothing seriously wrong with the heart. 
The change of life never causes heart disease, but it 
does cause these sudden attacks of palpitation, which 
make a woman think she has heart disease. She can, 
therefore, be assured that, though undoubtedly 
disagreeable to her, the palpitations only show a 
disturbance of the normal traffic of her life, and 
when order gets rehabilitated she will be no more 
troubled. Meanwhile a strict attention to the rules 
of hygiene previously stated, and those mentioned at 
the end of the chapter, with sometimes a suitable 
medicine from a medical man, will often work 
wonders for her. There is only one thing, however, 
she should not do. She should not take a glass of 
wine or spirits when she feels giddy and faint. It 

288 



Circulatory Symptoms. 

will do her no good. As a fact it will make her 
headache and flushing worse. She may, however, 
feel mentally better for the time being, and therein 
lies the danger of these restorative nips for a condi- 
tion like palpitation, which at times may be frequent. 

A frequent circulatory sign associated with, but 
sometimes separated from, palpitations, is the rush 
of blood to the face causing the cheeks to burn. This 
symptom again shows the resemblance between the 
period of the onset and that of the cessation of 
menstruation. An elderly matron with grown-up 
children may be exasperated to find herself blushing 
like a young girl at some casual personal reference 
to herself, or at a remark which, at other times, she 
would scarcely notice. The rush of blood so easily 
brought about may as quickly leave her cheeks and 
pass to some other part of her body, making her back 
or abdomen feel suddenly warm. The flushings are 
sometimes associated with outbreaks of perspiration. 
Even when menstruation has ceased the flushings 
are still apt to recur and so prolong the period in 
which the symptoms of the change endure. They 
are apt to be exaggerated at times so that the woman 
feels she is going to be unwell, but she is not unwell. 
They are mitigated by a careful regard for the health 
and eventually pass away. 

Other conditions, which are secondary to the 
disturbed womb and circulation, are an unreliability 
and disturbance of the digestive functions. There 
is a congestion of the lining membrane of the bowel, 
which may manifest itself in attacks of diarrhoea, 
sometimes alternating with constipation. There is a 
tendency for a woman to feel " liverish," with lack 

H.M. 289 19 



The Healthy Marriage. 

of appetite and heavy feelings after meals, and she 
may even have slight jaundice. Piles are apt to 
bleed at this time of life, and, unless the bleeding is 
fevere, the loss of blood, as in nose bleeding, does a 
sull-blooded woman more good than harm. Heart- 
burn, eructations, nausea and flatulence are further 
signs of the lack of proper order in the digestive 
organs. 

The irregularity of the blood supply may also show 
itself in the skin. Flushings and the freedom of 
perspiration have already been mentioned. Ting- 
ling, itching, and pricking sensations in the skin are 
not uncommon. Skin eruptions may appear at this 
time, and a troublesome eczema or acne arise. Both 
are wont to affect the head and face. Here one may 
also mention the tendency of hair to appear on the 
face. These obvious disfigurements are very trying 
to a woman. The hairs can be removed, but whilst 
the change of life is in progress the skin eruptions 
can only be controlled. They cannot, as a rule, be 
cured. Fortunately, they are wont to pass away as 
the change becomes completed. 

A very troublesome skin disturbance is that which 
causes itching and irritation of the private parts. 
Frequent bathing with a lotion of carbolic acid, one 
part to eighty parts of cold water, followed by 
powdering with a powder composed of boracic acid 
one part, zinc oxide three parts, and starch six parts, 
or the use of ichthyol or coal-tar soap also stop the 
itching. If the trouble continues, a doctor can often 
better matters. Sometimes the itching is associated 
with the whites, which are frequent during the 
change and sometimes show a periodic character as if 

290 



Nervous Changes. 

they formed a substitute for the menses. For this a 
woman may try douching with boracic lotion or 
lead lotion followed by a careful drying and powder- 
ing of the parts. 

The nervous changes are as frequent as the 
circulatory changes at this period. The nervous 
system becomes unreliable, just as the circulatory 
system becomes unreliable. Changes in the sensi- 
bility of the skin are frequent. Tender spots and 
areas appear and vanish. Backache, neuralgia, 
pain over the heart or over the stomach are all apt 
to visit women at the change of life, and show the 
general instability of the nerves. Irritability of 
temper is unfortunately common, and may be a 
great trial to the husband and children. Women 
are apt to lose their power of judgment, and their 
power to think clearly and to remember things. 
They become restless, hesitating, indecisive, moody, 
and depressed. Sometimes they sink into definite 
despondency. They fear they are going insane, 
just as at other times they fear they have heart 
disease. They sleep badly and are troubled by 
distressing dreams. A further evidence of the 
looking-glass resemblance of the cessation to the 
onset of menstruation is seen in the fact that these 
dreams are like young girls' dreams of love, enhanced 
by the knowledge women have acquired. There 
is, in fact, a recurrence in the desire for love, and in 
married women the need of intercourse, and, if they 
have had no children, the desire for children. Both 
of these latter symptoms may become excessive and 
pass as it were from the region of the will and sense 
of propriety. The pleasure in intercourse normally 

291 



The Healthy Marriage. 

continues for some years after the change of life has 
occurred, but at the time of the change of life it 
may become so strong as to cause women consider- 
able distress. The desire for children sometimes 
so surpasses the will and judgment that women 
actually make themselves believe they are with 
child. I had a Welsh patient once, who, though 
nearly fifty years of age and childless, was sent to 
the Rotunda in Dublin by a doctor for delivery. 
Both he and she thought this precaution needful 
owing to her advanced age. On examining her I 
found her stomach protruded owing to her being 
stout and also owing to her arching her spine in a 
peculiar manner. Such cases are by no means 
rare, and such women even eventually go through 
an imitation of childbirth. The historic example 
of this strange fantasy is that of Mary I. of England. 

Finally, a general change in the body and figure 
is more common at the change of life than no change 
at all, some women becoming stout, some thin. 

The list of ailments from which women tend to 
suffer at the change of life is, it will have been seen, 
a long one. These ailments are vexatious, they are 
a decided trial both to the women and the people 
of their households, until the final favourable out- 
come into normal health is reached. Not infre- 
quently women pass into a condition of health that 
they have not previously enjoyed. Lingering relics 
of the change of life may occasionally affect them 
even throughout the sixties. But such affections 
are only occasional and do not spoil the general 
enjoyment of health. Nevertheless, the years of the 
change of life are years punctuated with distress in 

292 



Remedies. 

the great number of women. Only the women 
who have had happy marriages illuminated by 
health, love, respect, the gift of children whom they 
have suckled, can hope to pass through it without 
affliction. 7 In these afflictions again one seems to 
see a retributive justice dealt out to generations that 
have not based their civilisation upon a wholesome 
and direct recognition of the physiological nature of 
men and women and its social regulation, without 
which the social life of man must be a mockery and 
a sham, namely, sex through marriage and the 
responsibilities and joys brought about by the 
procurement of children. 

As a consequence all the recommendations and 
advice that medical men can give, by which the 
afflictions of the change of life are mitigated, are 
really recommendations of the observance of sound 
physiological life. The chief means by which these 
afflictions can be avoided are those already men- 
tioned, namely, healthy marriage and healthy 
child-bearing and lactation. The life must be 
physiologically sound in order that its change may 
be also sound. Taking this for granted, one next 
has to consider what sort of hygiene and remedies 
may be adopted during the change of life itself. 

One of the most useful remedies for the irritability, 
flushings, perspiration, insomnia, giddiness, and 
general circulatory and nervous discomforts, is the 
use of the hot bath. A woman should take such a 
daily bath at a temperature between 99 and 100 F., 
that is to say, a little above the temperature of the 
body, and stay in it for fifteen to twenty minutes, 
occasionally adding hot water to keep up the heat. 

293 



The Healthy Marriage. 

This bath brings the blood to the skin. For the time 
being the irregularity of the circulation meets its 
master. The blood is generally summoned to the 
surface. The skin becomes pink ; and this discipli- 
nary measure has a decidedly good effect for the rest 
of the twenty-four hours. The hot bath is decidedly 
better than the cold bath during the change of life. 
The vigour the cold bath gives the body is wont to 
be irregularly exhibited. It is order rather than 
stimulation that the body needs, and this order the 
hot bath brings. The skin after the hot bath should 
be well dried. If it shows roughness a free inunction 
of lanolin should be used. In the private parts it 
should be carefully soaped, dried and freely powdered 
daily, if the parts tend to be moist. 

Daily exercise is equally important to women at 
this time. They must not consider themselves 
invalids, but as people whose physiology is for the 
time being disorderly. Daily exercise, such as has 
already been described in Chapter V., should be 
taken. But, as regards special features, it should be 
more regular than at other times of life. It should 
be a regular daily walk, and may be supplemented 
by some simple forms of gymnastics, such as are 
supplied by special apparatus. For women suffering 
from great irritability of the skin, the digestion and 
general feeling, general massage for half an hour a 
day is a very valuable remedy. 

The bath, if taken in the evening, or general 
massage are also excellent means for gaining a 
refreshing sleep at times when sleep is troubled or 
interrupted by waking periods and distressing 
dreams. Abundant sleep is very valuable in helping 

294 



Diet. 

to preserve the order of the bodily processes, and, 
therefore, women at this time should adopt regular 
hours for going to bed and try to get in one hour 
of sleep before midnight. Breakfast in bed has 
advantages at periods of exacerbation of the sym- 
ptoms, for not only does it bring an extra period of 
rest, but it also prevents the occupations of the day, 
at such times tending to be felt as worries, being 
entered into too early in the day. 

The food at this time must be as simple and well- 
cooked as possible. Stimulating foods or foods that 
add to the amount of uric acid are certainly to be 
avoided, for the body responds erratically to stimulus 
and displays an exacerbation of symptoms and 
discomforts that otherwise are not particularly 
bothersome. Some foods as sweetbread, liver, 
kidneys or any glandular substance are unsuitable. 
Hot curries are unsuitable, Worcester, Ai and 
other sauces unsuitable, any heating spices or condi- 
ments unsuitable. In the same way the amount of 
meat should be moderated and reliance placed upon 
eggs, fish, fresh vegetables and meal foods. A full 
meat diet makes demands upon a woman. It is a 
stimulating and exciting diet, and, therefore, at this 
time is decidedly unwise. Foods which help to keep 
the action of the bowels in proper order are particu- 
larly valuable. The sense of fulness tells women in 
clear terms that the body requires relief, and, if the 
bowels are not properly open, this sense of fulness is 
aggravated. Fresh and stewed fruits, green vege- 
tables, lettuce, cabbage, cauliflower and fresh garden 
products, good jams and honey should be constitu- 
ents of the daily table. Fresh milk is a good food, 

295 



The Healthy Marriage. 

but should not be taken between the meals, for it 
destroys appetite. 

In addition to these foods, which are beneficial in 
preventing constipation, an occasional jjurge of blue 
pill, a dose of salts, Apenta water or vegetable 
laxative will bring a woman great relief, for the free 
action of the bowels is very efficacious in relieving 
the general congestion of the body. 

The liquids taken at this time should also be bland. 
I strongly advise women at the change of life to give 
up alcohol in all forms, or at the most to take only a 
little light wine. Alcohol tends to act like a trigger 
to a cap, and sets up an explosion, which by timely 
wisdom could be avoided. Strong tea, strong coffee, 
strong beef extracts are for similar reasons inad- 
visable. Water is the best drink ; the mineral 
waters are also good. 

It need hardly be said that intercourse is a cause 
of excitement and should be moderate at this time. 
If women find desire troublesome and its frequent 
satisfaction followed by depression, irritability and 
other signs of nervous instability, let them consult 
their doctor. Some local treatment may cure them. 

Finally, I would recommend my readers to peruse 
the chapters in this book upon hygiene, and so order 
their days. But let them avoid becoming invalids. 
Occasional rest in bed is valuable, but to give up 
daily occupations is folly. Only let them avoid 
occupations that worry them or exhaust them. Let 
them be moderate at this period of physiological 
anarchy and their reward will consist in the modera- 
tion of its symptoms and a calmer passage to the 
healthy and stable years that follow it. 

296 



INDEX. 



A. 

Alcohol, 82, 91-98 

Alcohol and conception, 96-98 

Appetite, 88 

B. 

Baby, the, 261, 265, 266, 278, 

279, 281 
Baths, 

cold, 116-119 

during menstruation, 121 

during pregnancy, 121 

hot, 119-121 
Bicycling, 76 

C. 

Change of life or menopause, 
circulatory symptoms, 287- 

290 

diet, 295, 296 
hygiene, 293-296 
menstruation during, 283- 

287 
nervous symptoms, 291, 

292 
women who do not suffer 

at, 286 

women who suffer at, 287 
Child, predetermination of sex 

of, 219-221 

Clothes, science of, 145-147 
Conception and the honey- 
moon, 34 
Continence, 35, 41-43 



Cooking, 134, 135 
Crawley, Ernest, 17 
Croquet, 74 

D. 

Dancing, 78, 79 

Dress, personality in, 147-149 

E. 

Electric light, 115 
Exercise, 

during pregnancy, 82-85 

value of, 67-73 

F. 

Fires, in, 112, 114 
Food in towns, 89-91 
Forel, August, 18, 34, 96-98 

G. 

Gas, 107, 114 
Gel sen, Karl von, 34 
Golf, 75 
Gymnastics, 77, 78 

H. 

High heels, 81 

Hockey, 74 

Honeymoon, the, 30, 33-35 

Household, simplification of 

the, 136-140 
Hymen, the, 31 



297 



Index. 



i. 

Infantibus nipple-shields, 263, 

264, 279 
Insomnia, 126-128 



K. 

Kisch, Enoch, 11,151 
Kraepelin, Emil, 97 



L. 

Labour, 

bearing down, 251 

bed, arrangement of, 240, 
241 

chloroform in, 251-253 

first stage of, 242-247 

length of, 236-238 

lists of things required for, 
224-226 

nurse for, 223 

onset of, 233-235 

physiology of, 231, 232 

preliminaries in, 239 

preparation of room for, 
227 

second stage of, 248-253 

stages of, 231, 232 

third stage of, 253-257 

without a doctor, 257 

without a doctor or nurse, 

257, 2 58 
Lactation, 

breasts, care of, 278, 279 

diet, 280 

health during, 276, 277 

hygiene, 280-282 
Lying-in, 

after-pains, 270 

bowels, 269 

diet, 259, 260, 266, 267 



Lying-in continued. 

discharge during, 262, 268- 

270 

sleep during, 271 
stopping the milk, 274,. 

275 

suckling during, 261, 263 
temperature, 262, 268 
visitors, 271 

when to get up, 271-274 
womb, changes in, 261, 

268, 270 

M. 

Marriage, 

childless, 47 

completed by child, 44 r 

48,49 
early, modern risks of, 21- 

2? 

economic pressure and, 2 
European, i, 4 
late, disadvantages of, 13- 

17 

modern, 5 
Oriental, 3 
social quality and, n, 12, 

20 
Marry, 

age to, 10-27 

people who should not, 28,* 

29 
Menstruation, 

absence of, 160, 161 
character of, 154-156, 162 
during change of life, 28",- 

287 

during lactation, 277, 282 
earliest, 151 
excessive, 156, 157 
. hygiene, 170-175 
irregularity of, 163-165 



298 



Index. 



Menstruation continued. 
latest, 151 
length of, 161-163 
medicines during, 176, 177 
ovulation and, 152 
regularity of, 162, 163 
scanty, 157-160 
symptoms of, 166-168 
vicarious, 177 
whites following, 178 

Miscarriage, 

causes of, 209, 210 
danger of neglecting, 205- 

207 

frequency of, 208 
how to avoid a, 211 
missed, 214, 215 
signs of, 212, 213 

Modern life, faults of, 58-61, 
68-72, 130, 131, 136-140 

Motoring, 76 



Needlework, 133, 134 
Neurosis, 58-66 

O. 

Occupation, value of, 129 
Offspring, limitation of, 45-47 



Physiological cycle, 153, 170 

Posture, 85, 86 

Pregnancy, 

absence of menstruation 

in, 182-184 
backache, 203 
breast changes, 184-186 
breathlessness, 203 
constipation, 196-199 
cramps, 202 



Pregnancy continued. 
douching, 201, 202 
duration of, 216-218 
effect of upon child, 179- 

181 
enlargement of abdomen, 

191 

frequent micturition, 189 
headache, 199 
hygiene, 196-199, 203, 204. 
lactation during, 282 
lethargy, 195 

morning sickness, 186-188 
movement of child, 190 
nervous changes, 194 
nipples, 204 
physiology of, 229, 230 
pigmentation, 189 
piles, 196 
pruritus, 201 
quickening, 190 
skin eruptions, 200 
toothache, 200 
varicose veins, 195 
whites, 20 1 

R. 

Radiators, 112 
Respiration, 99 
Riding, 75 

Ripping, Seved, n, 27 
Rowing, 76 
Rumford, Count, 143 

S. 

Sewer gas, 106 

Sex, 9, 31, 32, 35-43, 63-66, 

127, 168 
education concerning, 8 , 

9, 16 
neurosis and, 38-41, 160 



299 



Index. 



Skin as protection, 141, 142 

Sleep, 123-125 

Sterility, 

acquired, 53-57 
congenital, 52, 53 
in man, 51 
in woman, 52-57 

Stillness, value of, 85 

Stoves, 112, 113 

Sunlight, 104 

Swimming, 75, 121 

T. 

Temperature of room, 114 
Tennis, 74 



Twilight sleep, 252 
Typewriting, 133 

U. 

Unmarried state, abnormality 
of, 10-12 

V. 

Venereal disease, 14, 27, 28 
Ventilation, 100-110 

W. 

Walking, 73, 79-81 

Weaning, 281 

Whites, the, 177, 178, 201 



BRADBURY AGNEW, & CO. LD PRINTERS, LONDON AND TONBRIDGE. 



University of Toronto 
Library 





Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



