
to 

Household Science 
Department 
Univ. of Toronto 



THE JOURNAL 

OF 

HOME ECONOMICS 



PUBLISHED BY 

THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 



VOL. VIII, 1916 
COMPLETE IN TWELVE NUMBERS 



BALTIMORE, MD. 

1916 



fx 



V.J, 




1101572 



Vol. VIII. No. 1 



JANUARY, 1910 



THE 



Journal of Home Economics 

F"or those interested in Ilomemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Kconomics 

Mrs Alice P \ortom. Elilor Kktirah E. B\r.rwis, U.jikisimi; F.iliior 

EUtorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel \ssk Barrows C. F. Langwor'thy Isabel Ely Lord 

Ex-OJIicio Mrmhers — Martha Van Rensselaer, President Atncriciin Home Econnrn'cs Assuciation 
Sarah Louise Arnold, Chiirmin Institution Economics Section 
RiTH Whekler. Chairman Science Section 
CiKRTRUDK McCheyne. Chairman Extension E'lucation Section 

CoHahoratoTS— The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisers 



CONTEXTS 

Tnr. IIk.iif.st Education for Womkn /;(//,/ C. Luiliro/} 1 

The Intirnational Office of Home Economics 8 

Aims and Work cf the National Society for thi: I'komotion oi Ivdi striai. Edccation 

Clro Murllawl 10 



The Use of Sriiooi. Rooms and Eqiipment 

Till" Makinc, of a Bi dc.kt ........ 

An -Application of Stat:st:cs to Bldcet Making for Li^nch Rooms 
A Stcdy of Condensed and Evaporated Mtlks .... 

For the Homemaki r 

An Exhibit of Instrittivi; Xisitinc. Houskkkepinc, 

IIoi'SEHoi.D Chemical Tests for Textile Fabrics . 

Potato Starch and Its Use in the Home .... 

Profits in Commi rcial Bakinc, and the H'.tsaKekper . 

The CoMPARSTiVE Cost of Homemade and Baker's Bread 

Bacteria in the Air 

Editorials 4.S 

Books and Literature 4.S 

Bibliocraphy of Home Economics 49 

News from the Field 51 



Willi.nu Morse Col,' 17 

Roviiiid II. Vivian 19 

Id I .1. Brnasloii 29 

. 3.? 

Jdiir Tnirc Dniitmoit ?>?> 

Jiiin G. Miickiiiunn M) 

. 38 

. 39 

AiiiKih'll, M.irsh 4fl 

. 41 



The Journal of Home Economics is publisher) monthly by the American Home Economics .Association. 
$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.25. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittan.-es should be sent by Draft on New York, Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable 
to the American Home Economics .Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the senders risk. 

CH.AXGE IX .ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which the 
change is to take ellect. The subscriber's Old .Address sliould be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 



AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 



Station N, Baltimore, Md. 



Entered as second class mattei at the Baltimore Post Office 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 



Vol. VIII JANUARY, 1916 No. 1 



THE HIGHEST EDUCATION FOR WOMEN^ 
Julia C. L.athrop 

Chief of the Children's Bureau, Washington 

For fifty years what is known as the Higher Education of Women 
has been a policy, whose growth is sign enough of the approval it has 
earned. The higher education of the great group of women's col- 
leges just estabhshed has been and still is purely cultural, avowedly and 
inevitably offering to women the precise cultural studies offered to 
men, keeping pace with implicit faithfulness with the development of 
cultural courses in the leading schools for the education of men. 

How and why these cultural courses have widened might well be the 
subject of a careful study. The changes are a conservative running in- 
dex of what we Hke to believe is the growing democracy of our intel- 
lectual interests: but the point is that these courses are offered as cul- 
tural, part of the unspecialized training of an educated person, or part 
of the training preliminary to special training. Perhaps there is no one 
left to question the abiUty of women to take in and take on this cul- 
ture. At any rate for our purpose let us consider closed the question of 
assimilation. 

On the basis of this cultural study, men's colleges have added profes- 
sional schools in growing variety, ser\'ing the needs of a few thousands 
each in pursuits dignified and useful but not absolutely essential to the 
existence of the race. To certain of these schools women have been 

* This address was given on October 11, 1915 as a part of the celebration commemorating 
the fiftieth anniversary of the opening of Vassar College. It is reprinted from the official 
record of the celebration. 

1 



2 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

more or less painfully admitted; but they remain men's schools for 
men's pursuits, and the great foundations for original research are men's 
foundations. And the intimations that women's powers are powers 
of assimilation only continue to be heard. 

The very words higher education challenge us to the superlative and 
push us to the subject I have ventured to state. What is the highest 
education of women and what are some of its immediate possibilities? 
No one would be bold enough to say that we can discern all these pos- 
sibiHties, and as for the ultimate development of the education of women, 
it is as far beyond our ken as the Vassar Campus is beyond the imagina- 
tion of the cave-woman. IMay I venture to defme crudely the highest 
education of our day as that which upon a cultural basis gives the mind 
an ardor for discovering facts and relating them to the truth, and which 
provides the technical equipment of training for independent research. 

Recognizing the scope of the graduate professional schools, the wide 
sweep of the great foundations for original research, it becomes increas- 
inglv apparent that there is one great interest not yet made a subject 
of that study for which the highest education prepares. 

The one great avocation constantly requiring the unsparing service 
of millions of women is the rearing of children and the conduct of a 
household. The most universal and essential of employments, it re- 
mains the most neglected by science— a neglect long hidden behind tra- 
dition and sentimentality. 

Can women of the higher education do less than undertake to put an 
end to this neglect, to begin to place investigation and research directly 
at the service of the cult of the family, and to start forward on paths by 
which the most important calling in the world shall gradually acquire 
professional status? 

The highest education of women, then, I wish to define in terms of 
the needs of our own time, as training in original research applied to the 
life and interests of the family. 

Women of the higher education have vindicated the value of freedom 
for individual development. The family type based upon equal individ- 
ual culture of both parents gives a further vindication of women's 
higher education. Family democracy can only lead toward social de- 
mocracy — slowly, indeed, but surely. 

Undoubtedly the family has been gradually gaining in efficiency and 
in refinement since rivers ran to the sea. Yet as Ellen Richards labo- 
riously analyzed those waters and showed us how to keep them pure for 



1916] HIGHEST EDUCATIOX FOR WOMEN 3 

human use, so, we may be sure, the study of the family will reveal new 
material and moral standards and the practical means of securing them. 

As a few evidences of the need of study of the family, we need only 
remind ourselves that we do not understand life at the source, nor the 
reasons for its known wastage, nor how to economi2e the health and well- 
being of the race by minimizing this wastage. The subject has been 
regarded with such fatalistic indifTerence that we do not yet know how 
many children are born, nor how many die, nor why they die in our 
own country, while the more intensive knowledge of infant well-being 
which would enable us to establish convincingly its relationship to 
social well-being and to the rectitude and intelligence of parents is yet 
to be secured and analyzed. 

We know strangely little of the growth of the child's mind. Not 
long ago the advice of a distinguished alienist was sought as to the 
practical value of studies of the mental development of normal children 
in earliest infancy and during the years before the school and the outside 
world directly affect the child. He replied that such studies are of the 
highest value, that their primary usefulness as aids in working out the 
best home training of all children goes without saying; and that naturally 
enough he thought of them as especially needful because of the light they 
would throw on the baffling questions with which an alienist wrestles 
in dealing with the history of mental disaster. Such studies can be 
made only by the aid of the observations of individual mothers. Is 
it not a complete revelation of our unconscious relegation of the proc- 
esses of human development to the limbo of instinct that, while there are 
perhaps thirteen million mothers in this country, there are at best about 
a half dozen such studies (made by fathers and mothers jointly), and in 
attempting a plan for such studies a great difficulty is present in finding 
a competent director? 

We do not know the constitution of the American family. I speak of 
thirteen million mothers, but that is only an estimate based on the 
enumeration of women who are heads of households. No one really 
knows. The government census has never been directed to state the 
number, though this and much other precious information as to the 
constitution of every family in the country lies unused upon the mil- 
lions of untabulated schedules fiJed away for the last thirty years in 
the census archives. 

We do not know how extensive is the industrial employment of mar- 
ried women, nor its effect upon children and family life, nor when it 



4 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

is a result of a scale of wages for men too low decently to support a fam- 
ily, nor whether it is sometimes the cause of a low scale of wages for men, 
nor when it is fair to all concerned, including society at large, that mothers 
should work for hire. Worst ignorance of all, we do not know what is 
the decent support of a family, nor the factors that affect the question 
in a world where democratic efficiency is still only beginning the struggle 
up from feudal efficiency. 

All these are questions whose answers can never be complete nor 
right until they are expressed in terms of the family. 

If we cared to ask, these unregarded census figures could tell us va- 
rious facts which are now seeming mysteries. They could tell the num- 
bers of married women in industry, their ages, the ages and numbers of 
their children, how many children have lived and how many have 
perished, the occupation of the fathers and mothers and where the loss 
of child life is greatest. It would give an intimation of the numbers of 
families whose mothers are burdened and whose privacy is infringed 
by lodgers and boarders. Yet there has been no demand for this infor- 
mation, and the material gathered in 1890, in 1900 and in 1910 has re- 
mained untouched. 

Does the question of domestic service interest you in an academic 
or a practical way? The unpublished census figures hold the com- 
plete history of the shifts in the nationality and distribution of this 
service for thirty years. Would you know how many families have ser- 
vants? Would you know how many women perform with their own 
hands every daily task for their husbands and children? The answers 
are in the unpublished sheets of the census. 

I have referred thus in detail to the vast resources of unused informa- 
tion which the government already possesses in regard to the family 
because I know of no other illustration which indicates so clearly our 
national neglect — the unconsidered neglect of students, the unconscious 
indifference of the public— in a field where it is complacently taken for 
granted that our emotions and personal interests guarantee our efficient 
attention. 

Again, if the structure of the family is unstudied, still less is its dissolu- 
tion understood. The profounder causes for those disasters which only 
emerge in the divorce court among persons of appreciable income are 
not indicated by the oft-quoted census figures of 1910 which show that 
one in twelve of the marriages in the United States ends in divorce. 
May it not be that the efforts of law and religion to cope with family 



1916] HIGHEST EDUCATION FOR WOMEN 5 

breakdown lack success because to its study have not been called the 
wisest representatives of those who inevitably suffer most in disastrous 
marriages, the women of our country? 

Again, women are increasingly the direct retail purchasers of the 
country. We need education in family expenditure, in the prudent 
apportionment of an income, in discrimination as to the quality of every 
article and function which enters into the family life. Here we are con- 
fronted perhaps more simply and directly than in apparently larger 
issues with the fact that no family Hves to itself alone. For years a 
little group of people have urged the purchaser's responsibiHty, first 
because unwholesome conditions of production may bring injury to 
the family of the purchaser, but finally and conclusively because bad 
conditions of production certainly injure the producer's family, and 
once our eyes are opened we see a thousand proofs that the injury of 
one family is the concern of all. 

We may well be proud of the scholarly work of the Vassar faculty 
and alumnae in many fields, but at no point more than here, where 
pioneer studies in domestic economy by Ellen Richards and Dr. Salmon 
have pointed the way for future independent students. 

I am not unmindful of the tragic family importance of that helpless 
residue of social wastage whose index is the population of our charitable 
and penal institutions, yet I believe that a greater promise of usefulness 
Ues in studying normal life. May it not be that this very social wastage 
will be saved, not by repression nor cure nor prevention, but by con- 
struction, by strengthening the general fabric of human society as the 
physician combats disease by increasing the bodily vigor and its power 
of resistance. 

Consider what the mere establishment of a single center of training 
for research in the problems of the family would mean. Would it mean 
less for family life than the founding of this college meant for the indi- 
vidual student? I think far more, because it could build upon that 
cultural basis which the last fifty years have developed. Perhaps 
wisely our greater women's colleges have thus far kept aloof from any 
interest in the practical arts of daily family life. Yet independently a 
wide movement for bettering the household has begun, helped by the 
re-discovery of the preciousness of the worker's hand along with the 
scholar's eye. 

The public schools have given us manual training and kindergartens 
and finally cooking and sewing; the state normal schools and the state 



5 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

universities have developed teachers' training classes in domestic science; 
a few public schools have begun to teach practical housewifery in a 
practical manner; and city health departments have developed Little 
Mothers' Leagues. There are a few notable instances of rural schools 
which are also the teachers' homes in which the usual work of daily life 
is well taught. Certain technical institutions and girls' schools offer 
practical instruction in domestic arts. 

Nowhere is there any center for research and discovery, nowhere a 
center where choice minds are devoting their powers to the philosophy 
of the inevitable labors of the average household, to developing by origi- 
nal study improved care of the young who must be matured there, new 
expedients for enriching the lives of the adults who should be happy 
there. Nowhere patient research gives the authoritative sanction which 
would elevate into a national system, strong, free, elastic, the cult of 
the American family. 

A graduate school would train a certain number of persons in the 
art of independent research in various fields. It would necessarily be 
also a center of research because such training must be done by contact 
with actual problems. Much of its work would be extra-mural. It 
could, for instance, enlist the aid of many thousands of mothers every 
year. 

Such centers of research would serve to correlate and inspire the many 
scattered educational activities now existing, all of which are making 
more effective the work of the average household by placing at its service 
the inventions and appliances of modern science. 

Nothing could be more unfortunate than any effort to control the 
practical teaching already under way: — nothing, on the other hand, more 
helpful and welcome than centers of original study to which practical 
people could turn for inspiration and help. And in turn such centers 
would by their extra-mural relation be kept constantly aware of the 
practical aspects of their varying studies. 

Are some of you thinking that this is far-fetched? That, after all, 
wisdom makes its contribution through the individual to the home 
finally, that good parents — the only numerous class of parents — create 
good hou.seholds and that the natural devotion of mothers can still be 
trusted? 

May I reply that mother love can be trusted, but that we presume 
upon it. Maternal affection is the most precious survival of instinctive 
life. By its motive power millions of women daily perform miracles 



1916] HIGHEST EDUCATION FOR WOMEN 7 

of patient toil, but Nature has withdrawn from the human mother the 
instinctive wisdom which, as Fabre has shown, she bestows so lavishly 
upon the hymenoptera. 

What may we not hope for the future of the race when we put at the 
service of the human mother's intelligence the continually growing dis- 
coveries of research? 

I do not propose a small thing nor a cheap thing in urging that the 
present status of the education of women demands a new specialization 
to be signaHzed by the creation of centers of study and research in the 
service of family life. It means not only great endowment of money, 
it means the greater endowment of trained minds set to the task of 
working out the expedients of fashioning the tools of expression by which 
that profound maternal instinct, reinforced by intelligence, may freely 
work out the destiny of the young of the race. 

It is no less than a revolution which is impHed. Its aim is to give 
the work of the woman head of a household the status of a profession. 
The change in this direction has already begun and I have referred to the 
many beginnings of teaching applied household economics as a sign of 
the coming change. The question is whether the women of the higher 
education shall strengthen the movement directly and avowedly. 

Earlier, when individual development was the goal of education, how 
often was it said of a woman, "Now she is married. What good will 
all that education- do her?" 

With the highest education creating great centers of study through 
which to utihze and coordinate the observations of mothers, do we not 
begin to see at once a new application for the higher education? 

Mothers of the next generation will need, not to resign themselves to 
the Hmitations of their fate, but rather to equip themselves for its illimit- 
able opportunities. Instead of being isolated by the narrow Hfe of home, 
through it the mother allies herself to the highest studies and makes 
invaluable contributions as a sheer by-product of her daily cares. 

The legal emancipations of women are coming fast. The rapidity 
of her further educational emancipation rests with herself. Now it is 
partial; the recognized professions she may enter — those which will 
always invite a small minority of women. It is for her to make the 
great occupation of women a profession, to see that the highest education 
trains those who shall contribute toward that profession's success. 

Posterity will smile at the naivete with which some of us incline to 
consider women no longer economically useful because the factory has 



8 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

freed mothers from certain subsidiary domestic arts. In truth she 
now begins to have time and vision to see that there are real and growing 
arts in the physical care of the young, in the development of the childish 
mind and behavior. Above all, the mother of today may look outside 
her own door. She is gaining an understanding that no home prospers 
or perishes to itself alone; that the doors of all homes open on the highway 
of a common happiness, and that economic values are human values. 

We begin to see in richer terms the equitable meaning of society and 
to see in the development of that meaning a task to be preferred by 
women chiefly, which will demand all the time and wisdom they can 
summon. 

I have spoken of women and to w^omen, and for that very reason it 
must not be left unsaid that in American civilization as nowhere else in 
the world women may count in their own task upon the aid of the one 
force more wonderful than maternal instinct, that purest product of 
civilization, the devotion of a father. 

The initiative for the highest education applied to the service of the 
family rests with women. The carrying out must be done jointly by 
men and women, since, diverse as may be their daily tasks, the interests 
of men and women cannot be separated; both are joined in the great 
onward march of the race toward that mysterious end which we love to 
call justice. 



THE INTERNATIONAL OFFICE OF HOME ECONOMICS 

American workers in Home Economics have little opportunity to 
become acquainted with the work done along similar lines in the other 
countries or to know their foreign colleagues. They will, therefore, 
welcome contact with such an organization as the International Congress 
for teaching of Home Economics (Congres International de I'En- 
scigncment Menager) and its permanent Office at Fribourg, Switzer- 
land. Fribourg, or Freiburg, is the capital of the French-German 
Canton of the same name, a picturesque old city on the main line from 
Ik-rne to Lausanne, and should not be confounded with Freiburg-im- 
Brcisgau in the Black Forest, or with the Prussian Freiburg. Appar- 
ently it was chosen as the meeting place of the first International Con- 



1916] INTERNATIONAL OFFICE OF HOME ECONOMICS 9 

gress (1908) and for the permanent Office not only because Switzer- 
land is always an inviting and appropriate center for international 
associations but also because it had been headquarters for much of the 
preparatory work of the Congress. Since 1913 the Office has been under 
the able direction of M. Leon Genoud, to whom we are indebted for the 
photograph reproduced as the frontispiece. 

It is gratifying to see the prominent position held on the walls of the 
Director's room by our famiHar friends, the food charts of the United 
States Department of Agriculture, and also to recognize Mrs. Richard's 
picture nearby. Miss Stanley, who reported the Second Congress, 
held in Ghent in 1913, for the Journal (vol. 5, 1913, p. 382) and to whom 
the Journal is much indebted for material concerning the Fribourg 
Office, which she visited that same year, was much impressed by the 
excellent collection of Home Economics literature which filled the book 
shelves, especially that of the textbooks used throughout different parts 
of Europe. She suggests that Americans might prove their active sym- 
pathy with the work of the Office by sending it any of their publications 
likely to be of interest. The Fribourg Office aims to be an international 
clearing house for material on Home Economics subjects, and has shown 
plainly both by the notes pubUshed in its quarterly bulletin (Bulletin 
de rOffice International de I'Enseignement Menager,) and by M. 
Genoud's correspondence with Home Economics workers in this coun- 
try, how highly it values American pubhcations and also personal con- 
tact with and information regarding work and workers in the United 
States. We, on the other hand, can glean much of interest from the 
bulletin of the office which is (as far as is known to the Journal) the 
only publication which regularly summarizes Home Economics news 
from many countries. It also serves to introduce to us many foreign 
workers and pubhcations of which we should otherwise know nothing. 
The address of the editor is I'Office International de I'Enseignement 
Menager, Fribourg (Suisse) and the annual subscription within the 
postal union is 25 cents (1 fr. 25 c.) 

In spite of Switzerland's neutrality, her ordinary activities have 
been so interrupted by the war that the Office has been forced tempo- 
rarily to publish the Bulletin in double numbers at six instead of three 
month intervals. The same cause put an end to plans for the third 
Congress, which was to have heen held at Leipzig in 1915, but the 
general work of the Office seems to be running with sufficient smoothness 
to insure its regular continuation as soon as conditions in Europe be- 
come normal once more. 



10 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS fjanuar)' 

AIMS AND WORK OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE 
PROMOTION OF INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION^ 

CLEO MIXRTLAND 
Secretary in Charge of Women's Work 

RECOGNITION AND SUPPORT OF VOCATIONAL EDUCATION 

Thousands of children leave the schools each year without having 
completed the elementary school course which has practically become 
a minimum requirement for intelligent citizenship and a successful voca- 
tional career. Much as society believes in elementary education and 
secondary education as preparation for life, it is face to face with the 
fact that although both are provided, only 50 per cent of our young 
people complete the elementary school course and 10 per cent the high 
school course.2 There is reason to beheve that a large proportion of 
these children can be reached effectively by a type of vocational edu- 
cation which combines practical intensive work ir industrial subjects 
with instruction in related and general academic subjects. It is also 
believed that such training and instruction will not only tend to make the 
education of these young people more effective, but that it will increase 
the number of years of schooling before employment and gradually 
bring about part-time courses after employment and thus greatly in- 
crease the learning period in the individual's life. Under the present 
regime too many young people go to work unprepared to meet the 
demands of industrial and commercial life and as a result fail to be- 
come successful wage earners and intelligent citizens. They have lost 
their interest in study; they do not know how to think out their prob- 
lems and so have neither interest in the school which might help them, 
nor sufficient intelligence to advance in their chosen vocations. 

The National Society believes in the established vocational education 
for the professions, for commercial pursuits, and in the high school 
courses which fit those who qualify for the college course. It believes 
in general education for all children. It believes that a stronger voca- 
tional element is needed in general education than it has at the present 
time. It believes in instruction in homemaking subjects for all girls 

' Written for the Kighth .\nnual Meeting of the .\mcrican Home Economics .\ssociation, 
Seattle, 1915. 

» Laggarrb in (Jur Schools by Leonard P. Ayres, New York City: The Survey Associalt^, 
1914. 



1916] AIMS AND WORK OF NATIONAL SOCIETY 11 

as part of their general education. It also believes that the vocational 
school organized and administered for the purpose of preparing young 
people for a useful occupation, is not worth the name if it fails to include 
as a part of the course a considerable amount of general education and 
general courses in the household arts that will assist in the work of the 
home. The largest interest of the National Society is concerned, 
however, with the vocational education which fits boys and girls for 
profitable employment, an important part of preparation for life which 
approximately 50 per cent of the young people are not receiving under 
present conditions. To this end the work of the Society is directed. 

The National Society does not believe that choice of occupation should 
be forced upon young children of fourteen years of age; nor does it be- 
lieve that vocational education should take the place of general edu- 
cation, but it does believe that vocational education should supplement 
general education and should be begun at the time when interest in work 
and wages is beginning to supplant interest in the general courses. The 
age at which specific vocational training should begin varies, therefore, 
according to the demands of the pupils and the community in which they 
live. Preparation for a vocation undoubtedly helps to guard against ex- 
ploitation (for it is the untrained, unintelligent worker who is exploited), 
and furthermore, it is the best means for safeguarding the young worker 
from being tied to one job for life — the one job which gives no desire 
for successful work or opportunity to rise above the entrance level. 

The vocational courses for these children, to be real, should cover as 
many lines of vocational work as the community affords and should 
be planned to meet the needs of the community, its industries, shops, 
factories and stores. Hence the National Society believes that voca- 
tional education is largely a local problem and that surveys and studies 
of local industries, shops and stores are essential to successful vocational 
courses. 

Too much education is aimed toward the president's chair and too 
little toward the problems near at hand. Vocational education that 
enables boys and girls to succeed in their own community may safely 
be trusted to give them the start in life they are entitled to, and to 
insure intelligent citizenship and desirable advancement as experience 
and opportunity make it possible. Nothing short of a fair start in 
life for girls as well as boys, makes for the democratic education which 
this nation stands for. 



12 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

WHAT THE SOCIETY HAS DONE TO FURTHER VOCATIONAL EDUCATION 

1 . Cooperation among the industries, organized labor and educational 
bodies for the purpose of bringing together for concerted work all those 
interested directly and indirectly in Vocational Education has been a 
very important part of the work of the Society. 

2. Conferences of superintendents, supervisors, state administrators, 
teachers, and others have been held periodically for the purpose of es- 
tablishing standards for vocational education. 

3. Constructive work has been done in methods for training trades- 
men and tradeswomen for teaching positions in the schools through classes 
for men at Pratt Institute and classes for women in IndianapoHs. 

4. Its bulletin for short-unit courses published by the U. S. Bureau 
of Labor Statistics is being used as a basis for part-time and night 
courses. 

5. Much assistance has been given to State Agents for Vocational 
Education in organizing and administering vocational schools. 

6. The National Society believing that a survey of the schools and of 
industry should be made before the estabhshment of vocational schools, 
has made two such surveys, one in Richmond, Virginia, and one in 
Minneapolis, Alinnesota. It has also made studies of specific industries 
in several cities for the same purpose. 

7. Legislation for vocational education has been written by the 
Society and its policies regarding the types of schools, courses of study, 
and methods of teaching are being adopted by many states and local 
communities. 

8. Propaganda for vocational education that will fit young people 
for profitable employment through lectures, conferences and publica- 
tions has been an important part of the work of the Society. 

9. The Society has added very materially to the literature on voca- 
tional education through bulletins published by the Society, by the 
United States Bureau of Education, the United States Bureau of Labor, 
and reprints of magazine articles on vocational education. It has also 
distributed widely state bulletins and other printed matter bearing on 
vocational education. 

WHAT THE COMMITTEE ON WOMEn's WORK HAS DONE 

The Committee on Women's Work has for the past two years been 
working in close cooperation with the Secretary, Dr. C. A. Prosscr, the 



1916] AIMS AND WORK OF NATIONAL SOCIETY 13 

Board of Managers and the Executive Committee of the Society, for 
it is the very strong desire of the women engaged in the vocational edu- 
cation movement to keep the work for boys and girls one strong unit. 
The Society has used its influence toward the establishment of voca- 
tional day schools which will prepare for useful occupations but the 
vision for all phases of vocational education far exceeds what young 
people may be able to learn before they take up their work. It looks 
forward to part-time education after going to work — a return to the 
school from time to time for short courses in vocational and general 
school subjects which will keep alive interest in study and reading and 
make success possible. Cooperation of the school, the home, and the 
business world which is being brought about will do much to make part- 
time training practicable and effective. 

The Secretary in Charge of Women's Work has made studies, in a num- 
ber of cities, of industries employing women. In Philadelphia, a general 
study of the need for a vocational school for girls was made and report 
was made to the Board of Education in December, 1914. There is 
hope that under the new law in Pennsylvania, which makes school at- 
tendance to sixteen years compulsory, a vocational school for girls will 
be established in that city. A study of the dress and waist industry 
with a plan for a part-time factory school for workers in the industry 
was made in the spring of 1914 and published by the U. S. Bureau of 
Labor. A brief study of a few phases of the garment trades of Boston 
for the Advisory Committee of the Boston Trade School for Girls was 
made in February, 1915. A study of the garment trades of Cincinnati 
in cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce and the Board of Educa- 
tion was made during the early summer of 1915. Cincinnati opened 
its vocational school for girls in September. 

For the Richmond Survey, the tobacco industry and the department 
stores were studied and recommendations regarding the training of 
workers were made. Six trade studies were made in MinneapoUs, de- 
partment stores, dressmaking and millinery establishments, knitting 
mills, garment industries, laundries and home making. 

The purpose of these surveys and studies of specific industries is to 
determine the kind and amount of general education and vocational 
training that may be given to prospective workers before they become 
wage earners, and to what extent education and training may be con- 
tinued after they have become wage earners. 



14 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

Studying an industry does not mean necessarily that a course of study 
and scheme of training workers may be set up. There is a growing need 
for studies which give information about many of the so-called unskilled 
industries in which women are employed as well as those demanding 
skill of the workers. The chief contribution of the study of the tobacco 
industry was ascertaining that there is no teachable content which the 
school could or should undertake to teach. Thus some of the studies 
give negative reports; others give much that is new and constructive and 
a better understanding of industry and its demands upon workers is 
gradually being brought about. 

The National Society recognizes the fact that many of the trades, 
such as dressmaking, milhnery, laundry work, waitress work, cafeteria 
and tea room work have grown out of the occupations of the home and, 
therefore, concern the American Home Economics Association as well 
as the National Society; the former in their relation to making a better 
home; the latter in their relation to profitable employment. Thus, an 
unavoidable overlapping of interests exists. 

Reports for Troy, N. Y., Philadelphia, Richmond and jNIinneapolis 
have all touched upon Home Economics to some extent. In mak- 
ing studies and surveys such as those referred to, when the question 
of the homemaker and the employed worker in the homes arises, 
the committee prefers to deal with this in cooperation with women 
engaged in the Home Economics field. Thus, in Minneapolis the de- 
partment of Home Economics of the University of Minnesota, and the 
Home Economics Department of the Women's Clubs had immediate 
charge of that part of the survey under the direction of the general Sur- 
vey Committee. 

FUTURE PLANS 

Studies and surveys of women's work will doubtless continue for some 
time. More information about the woman wage-earner and the de- 
mands that work makes upon her is urgently needed and more com- 
prehensive knowledge about the work of the woman in the home is also 
needed. The National Society is desirous of having these studies 
and surveys regarding the women's work reach out into as many occu- 
pations for women as possible. 

The National Society is deeply interested in the training of teachers 
for vocational schools. It believes that professionally trained teachers 



1916] AIMS AND WORK OF NATIONAL SOCIETY 15 

with interest and experience in industrial and trade work as well as trade 
workers with interest in and ability to teach the trade subjects are 
needed in the vocational schools. Academic subjects related to indus- 
trial or trade subjects as well as the general and cultural academic sub- 
jects should be taught by persons who in addition to professional train- 
ing and skill in teaching understand and appreciate the demands of 
industry; physical education should be taught— such personal hy- 
giene and preservation of health and strength as will make for happi- 
ness and efficiency; instruction in trade subjects as preparation for a 
vocation should in the main be taught by trade workers who have learned 
the trade processes by years of training and experience in the trade. A 
few teachers with technical preparation in practical subjects are also 
needed. Professional and technical training are well provided for, but 
instruction in teaching methods and class management for trade workers 
is only beginning to be developed. 

Pratt Institute has conducted for the past two years a class for men's 
trades preparing for teaching positions under the direction of Wesley 
A. O'Leary. A course in teaching methods for women trade workers 
was given by the Secretary in Charge of Women's Work during the past 
summer for the Indiana University under the direction of the Depart- 
ment of Industrial Education. The course was given in Indianapolis, 
the nearest large trade center to the University. Thirty sessions of 
three hours each were held. Lectures, discussion and practical demon- 
strations made up the work of these sessions. Afternoons were used 
for excursions to places of interest in vocational work. Eighteen trades- 
women, selected from ninety applicants, were enrolled. Professionally 
trained teachers were not ehgible to the course which was planned specifi- 
cally for experienced tradeswomen who desire to teach in the vocational 
schools of the state. More work of this kind is greatly needed. Trade 
workers cannot forego earning for a year or two in order to prepare for 
positions that are not assured. Much may be done to build up good 
teaching standards and to preserve for the school the essential features 
of trade and industrial work by carefully organized short courses. 

That the work for girls and women shows greater promise of advance- 
ment than ever before is shown in the following: 

At a meeting of the Executive Committee in June, it was voted "To 
put special emphasis on the work for women during the next few years, 
in order that this phase of the problem may receive the same considera- 



16 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

tion and study that has been given to the men's work." This action 
on the part of the Executive Committee of the Society gives great en- 
couragement to the committee on women's work, and every effort will 
be made to use to advantage the additional interest and support thus 
gained to further the vocational training of our girls and women. 

Interest in the problem all over the country is coming from other 
sources as well as from the National Society. It indicates that the time 
has come for greater and more extended development of the cause. 
Concerted effort among workers, employers, parents, teachers, and 
educational and social agencies will do much to hasten results and 
bring about better working conditions and a higher status for all 
women workers. 



THE USE OF SCHOOL ROOMS AND EQUIPMENT 

Sometimes, particularly in small schools where cooking classes 
would meet but once or twice a week, a room cannot be spared for 
such limited use and the work is not introduced. In the temporary 
building used for the first two years of its existence by the School 
of Education of the University of Chicago the school kitchen was 
equipped with common kitchen tables that could be rearranged, or 
removed if necessary, and the gas supply pipes had a screw connection 
with a shut-off cock at the floor, so that they could also be removed, 
leaving the room free for any purpose. 

This is by no means ideal, but it is far better than no work at all; 
and the willingness on the part of the teacher to adjust herself to such 
conditions often aids in bringing about a spirit of cooperation in the 
school that counts for more than the most elaborate equipment. 

In many better equipped schools it is still necessary to use the same 
room for cooking and sewing classes. From one such school this 
question came: "AMiat is considered the best covering for cooking 
tables whirii are used also as cutting tables in sewing classes?" 

In reply the suggestion has been made that valspar varnish be used 
or white enamel paint plus valspar varnish. 

.\re there any other suggestions? 



1916] THE MAKING OF A BUDGET 17 

THE MAKING OF A BUDGET 
William Morse Cole 

Harvard University 

Much is heard today about the desirabiUty of conducting business on 
the basis of a budget prepared before the beginning of each financial 
year. Many urge that the budget be drawn up in great detail, specify- 
ing the amounts that may be expected from various sources of income 
and the amounts that ofiScers shall be authorized to expend on various 
kinds of outgo. Usually a business cannot predict very clearly what its 
income is likely to be, and, although generally one can foresee more 
clearly what expenses are probable, a budget that specifies expenditures 
in much detail tends to hamper the executive officers in shifting their 
expenses from one line of activity to another when by so doing they 
might take advantage of opportunities for economy. The correct 
policy, of course, is to adopt a budget which shall restrict the executive 
officers within certain large limits, so that they may be held up to re- 
sponsibility not to exceed certain proportions in the distribution of their 
expenses and not to exceed a certain reasonable limit for expenses as a 
whole. Draughting a budget is consequently not only important but 
difficult. 

Any contributions to an understanding of the art of budget-making 
are sure to be received by executive and financial managers with great 
satisfaction. The Journal is fortunate in its ability to pubHsh a con- 
tribution of this type from Miss Vivian, of the Department of Mathe- 
matics in Wellesley College and sometime financial secretary of the 
Women's Educational and Industrial Union, of Boston. Miss Vivian's 
paper shows for several groups of items related to one of the lunch 
rooms of the Union the budget estimates, based upon the experiences 
of the past, and the methods by which those estimates were worked 
out. Since the preparation of the paper, the financial year which the 
estimates were intended to cover has come to a close, and the figures of 
actual operations have been compiled. A comparison of expectations 
and realizations is not only interesting but confirmatory of the process 
adopted in the budget making. 

One table in this paper is of special interest, aside from its interest 
as a contribution to budget-making, in that it illustrates a principle 
coming to be recognized as important in drawing up graphic charts. 



18 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

The usual graphic chart shows fluctuations in actual amount or num- 
bers, and when two hues to be compared have not virtually identical 
bases, variations in one set of figures go up or down to a greater or less 
degree than do similar proportional variations in the other — simply 
because the general scale or base is larger or smaller. The same pro- 
portional variation, therefore, will show in a wider variation in one line 
than in the other; so that an exact paralleHsm in the proportional move- 
ment of the figures fails to show parallelism of lines on the graphic 
chart. If, however, the two lines are drawn not to represent actual 
figures, but to represent the logarithms of the actual figures, so that 
every variation of each line is adjusted not only to the same base but 
to all other variations, the rises and falls of the lines will be parallel 
if the variations are proportionately parallel, and will depart from 
parallelism otherwise. This is illustrated by the comparison between 
Tables IX and IXa in Miss Vivian's article. In Table IX, it will be 
observed, the rises and falls are very much larger than in table IXa, 
and, what is more important, the paralleHsm beiween the two lines is 
much less noticeable than in table IXa. In the former table, since 
the base is larger for one line than for the other, the same proportional 
variation gives a much larger actual variation. In Table IXa, the 
variations of the Hnes show the proportional variations of the figures, 
and we can see from the parallelism of the two lines that the propor- 
tional variation of figures was v-irtually parallel. In many charts, some 
of which have been pubhshed widely and used for drawing important 
conclusions, the variations have been so much afTected by the differ- 
ences in base that the conclusions drawn by readers untrained in 
statistical method have been extremely misleading. The Journal is 
accordingly glad to have opportunity to illustrate the differences be- 
tween the two methods in a case which can be seen not to exaggerate 
that difference and yet to show clearly the advantage of the logarithmic 
scale when comparisons are to be made. 



1916] 



APPLICATION OF STATISTICS TO BUDGET MAKING 



19 



AN APPLICATION OF STATISTICS TO BUDGET MAKING 
FOR LUNCH ROOMS 



ROXANA H, VIVIAN, PH.D. 

Department of Mathematics, Wellesley College. Formerly Financial Secretary, Women's 
Educational and Industrial Union, Boston. 

Statistical methods of forecasting the future have been used in various 
lines of work and appear to be not without value in the making of budgets. 
The following study was made in response to a request for statistical 
confirmation of a budget estimate, submitted in December, 1914, of the 
surplus to be expected for the Social Educational Work of the Women's 
Educational and Industrial Union from the Lunch Department of the 
institution for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1915. 

The figures available were those for the four years from 1910 to 1914, 
since the method of accounting was fairly homogeneous over this period. 
In Table I these figures are grouped under food supply,^ salaries, other 
expenses, overhead charges and surplus. The total expenses and total 
receipts are also given. 

TABLE I 

Division of lunch receipts 
(Figures taken from published Annual Reports) 



Overhead 

Other expenses. . 

Salaries 

Food Supply. . . . 

Total expenses 
Surplus 

Total receipts 



1910-11 



$11,721.41 

6,155.70 

26,947 . 73 

47,407.86 

$92,232.70 
3,780.39 

$96,013.09 



$12,432.21 

7,736.76 

27,855.26 

52,025.42 

$100,049.65 
3,151.23 

$103,200.88 



$10,331.15 

9,126.05 

30,825 . 68 

55,855.49 

$106,138.37 
7,572.10 

$113,710.47 



1913-14 



$10,720.04 

8,710.76 

30,960.39 

55,931.96 

$106,323.15 
12,607.61 

$118,930.76 



The total receipts for the four years showed an increasing business so 
that there could be no application of the Law of Averages to the actual 
amounts in dollars. In order to make use of the average in any of these 
items the percentages (ratio to total receipts) were calculated and are 

1 The term Food Supply means throughout this study the Food Supply actually used 
during the month, and Food Percentage is used in the same way. 



20 



TIIE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[January 



given in Table II. The average percentages have also been included 
in this table. The two sets of figures given in Tables 1 and II are 
represented graphically in Table III. Similar items, whether given in 
dollars or in percentages, are placed in the same position in each column 
and with similar rulings. 



TABLE II 

Percentages 





1910-11 


1911-12 


1912-13 


1913-14 


AVERAGE 


Overhead 


12.2 
6.4 

28.1 
49.4 


12.0 

7.5 
27.0 
50.4 


8.9 

8.4 

26.9 

49.1 


9.0 

7.4 
25.8 
47.2 


10.5 


Other expenses 


7.5 


Salaries 


26.9 


Food supply 


49.0 






Surplus 


3.9 


3.1 


6.7 


10.6 


6.1 







The averages had to be used with caution and in conjunction with all 
the information that the circumstances afiforded, as the legitimate and 
complete application of the Law of Averages depends on a larger number 
of cases than were at our disposal. It was also necessary to bear in 
mind that certain items had been a good deal affected by the idiosyncrasies 
of Union bookkeeping, notably the overhead charges. These were 
abnormally high in the first two periods and later were arbitrarily re- 
duced; but the effect of the overhead variation, as seen in Tables I, II 
and III, appears, of course, in the item of surplus rather than in the 
e.xpense percentages. No use was made of the overhead percentage in 
this study. 

The problem in making the Lunch Budget for the present fiscal year 
was to determine the following items: Amount of the year's business; 
overhead charges; salaries; other expenses; and food supply. 

The probable volume of business was a diflicult figure to estimate. 
September, 1914, showed an increase of S302.64 in receipts over Sep- 
tember, 1913, and October, 1914, an increase of $252.88 over October, 
1913; but these figures did not seem to be significant in view of the 
increase the business had been showing since October, 1910, as shown in 
Table IV. The decreases of $725.34 in November, 1914, and of SI 139.04 
in December were far beyond the normal and demanded more serious 
attention. Table IV shows the unusual extent of this decrease. The 
Director of the Lunch Department felt that a decrease that would average 



TAI5I,K III 

Division of receipts in the lunch department 










TABLE X 

Comparative variation in food percentages in the lunch department and in the Annalist Index 
numbers. Food percentages, July 1912, to December, 1914. ^^■^^"-^^ 
Annalist Index: numbers, January, 1913, to December, 1914. 

(In order to make the variations comparable the vertical unit for the food percentage 
is three times the unit for the index numbers.) 



Yoo4 






IhJi^ 


f^r^tnta^ 


— -r— -- - 




iTo^iy 




— 


- 


■-:--" 


1,0 


~~--— :-- T ^ "■■■"•" 




-Ti 






, . ^^ _. ; 


Tie--. !i 


V Av ^^ "^ 




\_^ y. N--^'^^ 


^^ \ .V*N. ' "^ "_:^^>H 






— : ^~^y-'--..-^—' 


,^._.\__^_^^^^^^ 


/«t> .„ 


¥o 


. 




-±X<!^-^ 




— 




iJ>t ~ 




-_ — 




ee _^ 


*c 


;:.:: 








t. ^___. 




i^c .^ 




>-'--" '-■ 




1 



21 



Comparative van 
1914 



TABLK IX 
ialion in altcdance and food supply. Attendance, July, 1912. to December 
Food Supply, July 1912 to December 1914. 



(In order to make the variations comparable the vertical unit for the attendance is three 
times the unit lor the food supply. 



Me«.«WM 




m^ 



'-'--'—' --t^'--- 1^-- 



i:a.-:Utte51israt4;^J^:rrrlTr,;r^rJ-;5iiiiiifa-! 



TART.E IXa 
Logarithmic form of Table IX 

(The marginal figures arc the logarithms. The natural numbers might have been 
used, as in Table IX.j 



TpTTpTT;T:T|TTTTT;;^r|^TTT|=TT|T^^ 




i ',! 



I 

Ok 






.8 



t 

1 



t< 




23 



24 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[January 



$500 a month was to be expected in the year's receipts, or that a e should 
look for a business of not more than $113,000. A more sanguine esti- 
mate would be $1 15,000. In order to show the effect of more or less busi- 
ness on the amount of surplus turned in by the Department, estimates 
were made on yearly receipts aggregating, respectively, $113,000 as in 
1912-1913, $119,000 as in 1913-1914, and $115,000, the highest figure 
that seemed within the range of probability for the present year. 

The overhead charges were known very definitely for this year, in- 
cluding as they did the fixed charges for rent, for services of the financial 
ofiice and the purchasing agent, and for depreciation. No matter what 
the volume of business amounted to the Department would have to 
pay about $10,400 for this item of expense. 

The salary demand was estimated to be $1000 more than in 1913-1914 
for the same volume of business. That is, a business of $119,000 would 
mean a salary expense of $32,000. The Director felt this might be cut 
to $31,600 on a business of $115,000, or to $31,400 on the $113,000 

basis. 

It remained to determine the amount required for food supply and 
other expenses in the three instances, and here we could do no better 
apparently than to use the average percentages in each case as shown in 
Table II. For other expenses the average of 7.5 per cent of the re- 
ceipts seemed a reasonable allowance and the figure was so calculated in 
Table XI. 



TABLE V 
Food supply in lunck department 



October 

November. 
December. . 
January. . . 
P'ebruary. . 

March 

April 

May 

June 

July 

August. . . . 
September. 



1912 



$3,394.91 
3,119.15 
4,169.91 



1912-13 



$5,250.52 
4,898.71 
4,473.60 
4,726.65 
4,088.86 
4,810.51 
5,050.89 
5,562.11 
4,819.88 
3,860.24 
3,571.58 
4.838.63 



1913-14 



$5,786.39 
5,141.72 
4,808.48 
4,481.20 
4,064.49 
5,009.46 
4,909.48 
5,121.08 
4,640.94 
3,707.39 
3,419.95 
4,845.23 



1914-15 



$5,511.70 
4,891.18 
4,739.68 



1916] 



APPLICATION OF STATISTICS TO BUDGET MAKING 



25 



In this particular business the food supply is the largest and most 
significant item of expense and the average percentage was not adopted 
until every available factor affecting the food supply had been examined. 



TABLE VI 
Attendance in lunch rooms 



October. . . 

November 
December. 
January. . 
February. 

March 

April 

May 

June 

July 

August. . . 
September 



1912 



13,896 
13,301 
19,060 



24,864 
23,440 
21.569 
22,932 
19,206 
23,153 
23,216 
24,295 
19,962 
15,535 
14,177 
21,471 



25,544 
24,259 
24,742 
22,675 
20,729 
25,031 
23,935 
23,601 
21,295 
16,327 
14,120 
22.208 



1914-15 



26,203 
23,139 
22,416 



TABLE VII 
Food percentages in lunch department 



October. . . 
November 
December. 
January. . 
February. 

March 

April 

May 

June 

July 

August. . . 
September 



1912 


1912-13 


1913-14 




48.6 


51.6 




48.0 


47.5 




47.5 


44.5 




47.6 


46.0 




48.6 


45.2 




47.1 


45.7 




52.9 


45.0 




50.0 


47.1 




51.3 


45.9 


53.4 


53.6 


48.4 


49.3 


52.7 


50.4 


48.4 


49.3 


47.8 



1914-15 



48.1 

48.4 
49.1 



Tables V, VI and VII give the food supply, attendance, and food per- 
centages, from October, 1910, to December, 1914. Table VIII gives 
the AnnaUst index figures for commodity prices by months from Janu- 
ary, 1913, to December, 1914. These index figures,^ published weekly 



* For methods of constructing index numbers see Bowley, Elements of Statistics, p. 217. 



26 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[January 



in the New York Times Annalist since January 1913, appeared to be the 
best outside factor to consider. They are sensitive to price movements, 
beinc^ based upon twenty-five food commodities so selected and in such 
amounts as to give each of the large food elements a normal influence, 
and they are practically independent of the pecuUar characteristics of 
any one business. Since they are in percentage form, a comparison with 
the food percentages was the most convenient one to make. Table X 
presents the figures of Table VII and VIII graphically, while Table IX 
showL- the figures of Tables V and VI in a similar way. The former did 
not reveal any close connection between food percentages and general 
price movements, but Table IX, as we should expect, exhibited a very 
close correspondence between attendance and food supply. 



TABLE VIII 
Annalist index numbers 



October. . . 
November. 
December. 
January. . . 
February. . 

March 

April 

May 

June 

July 

August. . . . 
September 



1913 



136.3 
136.7 
139.1 
141.1 
137.1 
136.9 
138.9 
139.0 
142.7 



1913-14 



141.80 
141.50 
141.84 
142.45 
141.27 
142.33 
141.12 
139.23 
141.52 
144.88 
152.11 
160.77 



1914-15 



149.66 
150.01 
146.78 



TABLE XI 
Estimated budgets 



Receipts 


$119,000 


$115,000 


$113,000 




Items of expense: 
Overhead 


$10,400 

32,000 

8,925 

58,310 


$10,400 

31,600 

8,625 

56,350 


$10,400 
31,400 

8 475 


Salaries 


Other expenses 


Foot] sujjply 


55 370 






Surplus 


$ 9,365 


$ 8,025 


$ 7 355 







1916] APPLICATION OF STATISTICS TO BUDGET M.-\KING 



27 



The correspondence was even more apparent in Table IXa, which is 
drawn on the logarithmic^ scale and shows the proportional changes 
from month to month. 

These figures and charts led to no better prediction for the percentage 
to be used for the food supply than the average. There seemed no 
reason to estimate below this figure, since it had to be admitted that 
the Department was not likely to do as large a business as in 1913-1914 
(an important factor in determining the food percentage), nor could it 
expect to buy food commodities at as low a price as in that year; while 
to adopt a larger percentage appeared unduly pessimistic. Accord- 
ingly the expense for food supply was figured at 49 per cent of the assumed 
receipts. 

The results* of these estimates for the three cases are given in Table 
XI and appear to be justified by previous experience. Comparing, for 
instance, the actual surplus for 1912-1913, when the business was 
$113,000, with the figure in Table XI we have $7572.10 against $7355. 
If in Table XI we adjust the surplus there predicted for a business of 
$119,000, the size of the business in 1913-1914, by taking into account 
the $1000 that was added for salaries and the advantage due to a food 
percentage of 47.2 per cent instead of 49 per cent, namely, $2142, the 
surplus would stand at $12,507, which is a close approximation to 
$12,607.61, the actual surplus for that year. 

The budget previously submitted after a less detailed and statistical 
analysis led to the expectation of a surplus of $8000. The conclusions 
drawn from this more extended study were as follows: very good con- 
ditions might possibly bring an $8000 surplus on a $113,OOo\usiness; 
if the business ran to $115,000 it was fairly safe to expect an $8000 sur- 
plus; and there appeared to be no justification at the time the study was 
made for setting any higher figure. 

The above method is thus doubly confirmed by applying it to the 
business of preceding years and by comparing it with an estimate ob- 
tained by a totally different method. There seems no reason why it 
should not be used with satisfactory results in any business where ac- 
counts are so kept as to afford the necessary statistical material. 

» For method see Bowley, Elements of Statistics, p. 188. 

* It should be noted that the results of this method were not kno\ra untU Table XI had 
been fully calculated, each item being determined independently on the best available 
information that affected it alone. 



28 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[January 



Supplefnentary Note. It is interesting to compare the actual figures 
with the estimates on what appeared to be the most probable \ olume of 
business in December, 1914, when the prediction was made. 



Receipts 

Items of Expense: 

Overhead 

Salaries 

Other Expenses. 

Food Consumed 
Surplus 




§111,385.86 




10,385.61 


9.3% 


31,383.88 


28.2% 


8,443.04 


7.6% 


53,352.07 


47.9% 


7,821.26 


7.0% 



The attendance was 251,536 against 264,466 in the preceding twelve 
months, justifying the estimated decrease in receipts. The total re- 
ceipts were as close to the estimated $113,000 as could reasonably be 
expected in a figure depending on so many factors beyond the control of 
the Director. The overhead charges were of course close to the estimate, 
and the salaries were practically settled in advance for the minimum 
amount of business. The other expenses, estimated on the average 
percentage, varied only one- tenth of 1 per cent (being 7.6 per cent of 
the receipts instead of 7.5 per cent), indicating the unusually steady 
management of the business. The Annalist index figures for the twelve 
months do not appear to have been influential, but the fact that the 
food consumed was 47.9 per cent instead of the estimated 49 per cent 
supports the conclusion that good puchasing and care in serving are 
more important than general price movements in keeping this figure 
low. The sanguine estimate for surplus on a business of $113,000 was 
$8000, or about 7 per cent: the actual surplus was 7 per cent on 
$111,385.86. 



1916] A STUDY OF CONDENSED AND EVAPOR.\TED MILKS 29 

A STUDY OF CONDENSED AND EVAPORATED MILKS 

IDA A. BENGSTON 
Assistant in Bacteriology, University of Chicago 

The use of condensed and evaporated milks is very widespread at 
the present time. The extent to which the industry has developed in 
this country during recent years may be realized when it is known that 
about fifty years ago there were only four or five factories producing 
condensed milk in the United States. Less than fifteen years ago 
there were fifty factories, and today there are over three hundred estab- 
lishments having a capacity of 15,000,000 pounds daily. It must be 
evident that the ways in which condensed milk is used have increased 
very materially. Formerly it was regarded as a food product to which 
recourse could be had when it was impossible to obtain fresh cow's 
milk. At the present time, however, condensed milk is widely used 
as a substitute for fresh cow's milk even though the latter is available. 
It is used to a considerable extent as a food for infants and invalids, 
and very largely in the manufacture of ice cream. 

The present extensive use of condensed milk products suggests some 
inquiry into the character and quality of the milks found on the mar- 
ket. A great many people are led to believe that condensed milk is 
cheaper than ordinary fresh milk. Obviously this can not be true, for 
it would not be possible to manufacture a condensed milk having the 
food value equivalent to that of whole milk at a cost less than that of 
whole milk. It is possible, however, by the removal of part of the 
butter fat to manufacture a preparation having a lower food value. 

It is true that the price of condensed milk has decreased with im- 
proved and cheaper methods of manufacture. In 1880 the average 
value per pound in the United States was twelve cents and 1890 it was 
nine cents. At the present time it is slightly more than nine cents, 
because of the fact that standards have been more definitely set. A 
price as high as thirty cents was reported in Massachusetts in 1890. 
Theoretically the differences in price should, to a certain extent, fur- 
nish a criterion of the quality of the product. This was probably true 
to a greater extent formerly than at the present time when there is 
greater uniformity in the quality of the different brands manufactured. 

Studies have been made to determine whether the use of condensed 
milk is based on economic principles. Such a study was undertaken 



30 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

by Jordan and Mott, who examined a number of brands of milks sold 
in Massachusetts. As a result of their work, they found that if these 
milks were diluted to make a quart of standard Massachusetts milk 
containing 3.35 per cent of butter fat, they would cost more than 
ordinary milks and sometimes more than certified milks. 

Facts like the above and the printing of certain misleading state- 
ments on the labels of some brands of condensed milk, make it clear 
why definite standards need to be set. Such a statement as the fol- 
lowing, "Diluted with three parts of water makes it equal to ordinary 
cream," appearing on a certain brand of evaporated milk which on 
chemical analysis was found to contain 7.2 per cent of butter fat 
(equal to 1.8 per cent if diluted as directed), is an illustration of fraud- 
ulent labeling. 

Standards have been adopted by a number of states, though there 
are still several which are without any such rulings. A national 
standard has been imder discussion for some time. At a recent meet- 
ing of a Joint Committee on Definitions and Standards from the 
American Association of Dairy, Food, and Drug Officials, the Asso- 
ciation of Official Agricultural Chemists, and the United States Bu- 
reau of Chemistry, Department of Agriculture, the following standard 
was adopted: 

It is recommended that the standard for "condensed milk," "evaporated 
milk" (Cir. 19, Office of the Secretary, United States Department of Agricul- 
ture, p. 6, B. a, 6) be changed to read as follows: 

Condensed milk, evaporated milk, concentrated milk, is the product re- 
sulting from the evaporation of a considerable portion of the water from 
the whole, fresh, clean, lacteal secretion obtained by the complete milking 
of one or more healthy cows, properly fed and kept, excluding that obtained 
\\'ithin fifteen days before and ten days after calving, and contains, all 
tolerances being allowed for, not less than twenty-five and five- tenths per 
cent (25.5%) of total solids and not less than seven and eight-tenths per 
cent (7.8%) of milk fat. 

This standard does not include any statement in regard to the de- 
gree of dilution necessary to render the condensed product equivalent 
to whole milk, a matter which has been considered of sufficient impor- 
tance to be incorporated into the standard of at least one state. Only 
by a statement of this kind can information be conveyed to the public 
as to the real quality of the milk. 



1916] A STUDY OF CO^TOENSED AND EVAPORATED MILKS 31 

The bacteriology of condensed milks is a matter which has received 
comparatively little attention. One advantage that has been claimed 
for condensed milks, is that they are "sterile," but this is not always 
the case, particularly with regard to sweetened condensed milks. It 
would be natural to suppose that the process of manufacturing would 
kill all the bacteria present in the original milk, but when it is remem- 
bered that the process of condensing is done at a temperature consider- 
ably below 100°C., it is not difficult to understand why some bacteria 
survive. The condensing process proper consists in heating the milk, 
after a preliminary pasteurization, in vacuum pans in which the boil- 
ing temperature is much lower than under conditions of ordinary at- 
mospheric pressure. The so-called evaporated milks, which are sim- 
ply milk concentrated to one-half to one-fifth of the original volume, 
without addition of sugar, are subjected, after canning, to a final heat- 
ing which, if conducted properly for a sufficient length of time, should 
kill all vegetative forms as well as all spore-bearers. However, bacteria 
have been found in these milks by several observers. 

The sweetened varieties of condensed milks are quite generally con- 
ceded, by all those who have investigated the subject, to contain bac- 
teria. These milks on account of the high sugar content, cannot be 
heated to a high temperature after canning, as are the unsweetened 
varieties, and therefore it follows that organisms which survive the 
pasteurizing process are often found in the condensed product. 

As far as investigated, the bacterial content of condensed milk ap- 
pears to be hmited, although counts as high as 1,000,000 per cubic 
centimeter, have been found in a few cases. It is doubtless true that 
the viscosity of the medium, and, in the case of the sweetened milks, 
the high sugar content, tend to inhibit the growth or multiplication of 
certain of the organisms present. Andrewes in England, however, 
has proved experimentally that the organism Staphylococcus aureus 
could multiply enormously in condensed milk, under both aerobic and 
anaerobic conditions. 

The kinds of bacteria which have been found in condensed milk 
bear a close relationship to those found in ordinary fresh milk, or, 
more properly speaking, to those found in pasteurized milk. The 
organisms present are those which survive the pasteurizing process 
and also those which may enter from the air and from other sources 
in the processes of condensing and canning. The following varieties 
of bacteria have been isolated by different workers: Streptococci, 



32 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

Staphyloccocci, B .Entcriditis sporogenes, lactic acid producing bacilli, B. 
Suhtilis, B. M esentericus , and yeast cells. B.Coli have been reported 
in one or two investigations. 

The Streptococci isolated have been shown by their fermentative 
reactions in various carbohydrates to include those varieties which 
are designated as milk Streptococci and which are often present in 
normal milk, as well as varieties derived from cow manure. Staphy- 
lococcus {pyogenes) aureus, a pus-producing organism was recently 
isolated by Andrewes in almost pure culture in a number of cans of a 
certain European brand of condensed skimmed milk. He considers 
the presence of this organism in such large numbers as objectionable 
and a ground for condemnation. A number of investigators have 
examined condensed milks for tubercle bacilli, but so far no true 
tubercle bacillus has been isolated. 

The bacteriology of condensed milks is a subject which has not been 
thoroughly investigated. Not enough tests have been made to say 
definitely what is the significance of bacteria in ruch milks. The fact 
that bacteria are present may be of no more significance than that they 
are present in pasteurized milk, aside from the fact that condensed 
milks are not always sterile as they purport to be. However in view 
of the fact that condensed milks are often used as infant food it is 
necessar}^ that precautions be taken to obtain an absolutely safe 
product. Cheap grades of milk which contain a deficiency of butter 
fat and which are highly contaminated are as unsuitable for condens- 
ing as for other purposes. Condensing no more than pasteurizing can 
make a good milk out of a poor one and therefore it follows that only 
the best milk which comes up to the standards required of whole milk 
should be used in the manufacture of the condensed products. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

AN EXHIBIT OF INSTRUCTIVE VISITING HOUSEKEEPING 
Jane Teare Dahlman 

Roxbury Charitable Society, 
Roxbury, Mass. 

The first exhibit of Instructive Visiting Housekeeping in Boston was 
held at the Twentieth Century Club on May 6, 1915. The exhibit, 
which considered only one of the problems of the instructive visiting 
housekeeper, the food problem, was prepared by a few social workers 
assisted by teachers and students of Simmons College. A brief history 
of this exhibit and the events that led up to it will be of value to house- 
keepers and club women who are interested in this work. 

In January, 1915, the New England Home Economics Association 
appointed a social workers committee, hoping to interest the social 
workers and public health nurses in Home Economics. At the first 
meeting, in February, Miss Shaw of Denison House gave a talk and 
demonstration on Syrian Foods; Mrs. Lydia Fillides, formerly a teacher 
in the American College in Smyrna, followed with a talk on Grecian 
Foods. Mrs. Fillides had prepared several Grecian dishes and dehghted 
her audience with a sample of each. Mr. Shooshan, one of our success- 
ful restauranteurs, told about the Armenian foods. He, too, brought 
with him several of his native dishes, of which each one was given a 
generous serving. The last two speakers pointed out many of the waste- 
ful extravagances of American cooking. They also spoke of the com- 
paratively little time and thought that the American housewives give 
to the feeding of their famihes. 

In March Rabbi Levi lectured on "The Dietary Laws of the Jews." 
In April Mr. DeMarco gave a picturesque and instructive talk on the 
"Food of the Itahans, " and Mr. Paolera served several Itahan dishes 
which he had specially prepared. 

At each of these meetings much interest was shown and many questions 
were asked by both the public health nurses and the settlement workers. 
The Instructive Visiting Housekeepers felt that the food problem ought 

33 



34 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

not to be dropped with the consideration of these five nationalities in a 
cosmopoHtan city like Boston, but should be continued so that social 
workers dealing with families of other nationalities would have some 
basis upon which to work intelligently. Consequently these two en- 
thusiasts mapped out a plan approved by the President of the New 
England Home Economics Association, which, with various modifi- 
cations and changes, was successfully materialized just six weeks from 
its inception. 

A meeting was called April 1 to discuss plans for an exhibit on the 
"Feeding of the Family of Small Income." Those who attended 
represented the Cambridge Associated Charities, the Ruggles Street 
Neighborhood House, the Roxbury Neighborhood House, the Norfolk 
House Centre, the Jamaica Plain Neighborhood House, and the Rox- 
bury Charitable Society. Each member of this group volunteered 
her services, the work was divided, and immediate action was enthusi- 
astically entered upon. 

Each following Thursday noon this group met at lunch and discussed 
the problems of the work, making many necessary changes. They 
were assisted by members of Simmons College, the Executive Board of 
the New England Home Economics Association, Hale House, Wilcox 
Hall, and other organizations. 

Miss Stern and Miss Spitz gave the committee the privilege of using 
menus for one week from their book entitled "Food for the Worker," 
which they are now compihng. In this book the cost is computed at 
20 cents for each person for each day, exclusive of one quart of milk 
daily for each child to drink. They gave not only the menus, but the 
caloric and cost computations and the food analysis. 

Miss McMullen of Roxbury Neighborhood House made separate 
menus for "Dinner Pails" and "Working Girls' Lunches." She com- 
piled for one week the food analysis, the caloric value, and the cost of 
each of these, a piece of work which attracted much attention. A full 
dinner pail and an attractive lunch is always a problem to the housewife. 

Dr. Blood and the students of Simmons College worked with the Over- 
seers of the Poor grocery order and demonstrated the fact that a family 
of five can sustain life for one week on $2 worth of highly concentrated, 
although not the most attractive food, plus one quart of milk a day. 
They then demonstrated the best use of an extra dollar and a half added 
to this. In both instances they gave the amount of each kind of food, 
the cost, the caloric value, the protein, and the mineral content. Dr. 



1916] VISITING HOUSEKEEPING EXHIBIT 35 

Blood made it quite clear, however, that she does not advise that people 
live continuously on this diet, for health and efficiency require more food 
and more variety; but she maintains that it can be done for a short time, 
if circumstances demand it, — a valuable basis for future, as well as for 
present work. 

Miss Lundberg, with the aid of the students of Simmons College made 
a list of meat substitutes, giving their protein content and cost compared 
with meats. Beneath this chart was a table of most attractive food 
which held the attention of many who wish to cut down the expenditure 
for meat. Miss Helen Warren, Teacher of Domestic Science at St. 
Joseph's Academy gave an exhibit of the food values of cereals and 
their cost. She showed ver}'^ clearly the difference in cost between cereals 
bought in bulk and in package form. She also demonstrated many 
attractive ways of serving cereals other than as breakfast foods. 

Miss Spellm.an of the EHzabeth Peabody House showed a kitchen 
fitted up at low cost, of particular interest to brides-to-be, as well as 
to housewives who wish to replenish. At a table near the door publi- 
cations on domestic science were exhibited. 

The exhibit was open from eleven in the morning until six in the after- 
noon. At the four o'clock meeting Mr. Robert O. Small, Deputy Com- 
missioner of the State Board of Education, and others spoke. So much 
interest was shown by social workers and by the public in general that 
the room was early filled to its capacity and many could not obtain 
admission to the hall at the time of the meeting. 

The Children's Aid Society has sent a very encouraging letter and a 
check for $25.00 to help pay the cost of the publication of the tabula- 
tions of this exhibit. Several requests have been received for this 
material from persons who saw or heard of the exhibit in Boston and 
from delegates to the National Conference of Charities and Correc- 
tions in Baltimore, where the charts were shown by Mr. Estabrook 
of the Roxbury Charitable Society and Mr. Warren of the Boston 
Associated Charities. The exhibit was displayed in the room adjoin- 
ing the large auditorium in which the meeting on "The Family and 
Community" and several of the general sessions were held. They have 
also been shown at a vocational conference in Boston at an exhibit of 
the New Bedford Industrial School, at the Summer Schools of Teachers' 
College and Simmons College. 



36 THE JOURNAL OF HOAiE ECONOMICS [January 

HOUSEHOLD CHEMICAL TESTS FOR TEXTILE FABRICS 

JEAN G. MACKINNON 
Assistant Professor Textile Chemistry, Iowa State College 

The usual chemical tests for the identification of textile fibers call for 
a five per cent solution of potassium hydroxide for silk and wool, and 
for sulphuric acid for cotton and linen. Since these materials are sel- 
dom found in the household, such tests have been of Httle value to the 
home. At Iowa State College the following study of tests has been 
made, using only materials which are found in the average home and 
giving in familiar household terms the amount of the material used. 
The washing powders used were chosen as typical ones in ordinary 
household use. Other powders of the same strength would serve as 
well. 

Tests for Wool and Silk 

Amount Used Time 

Materials tables po<mf ids tninuUs 

Washing soda 4 20 to 30 

Pearline 5 20 to 30 

Star naphtha 5 20 to 30 

Gold dust 5 20 to 30 

The washing soda must be rolled to a powder with a rolling pin to 
insure accurate measurement; this is easily done if the supply has 
been in the house for some time. Use a sample of fabric an inch and a 
half square. Add the washing soda or washing powder to a pint of soft 
water in a granite pan and boil the sample for the time indicated in the 
table. This boiling should be carried on slowly to avoid spattering and 
more water should be added from time to time to replace the water lost 
by evaporation during boiling. 

A gelatinous result will be obtained in every case, unless the fabric 
is all or nearly all cotton. Transfer the sample with a wooden spoon to 
clear water and rub between the finger tips. The gelatinous material 
will disappear in the water, while any cotton threads will remain un- 
changed. That the sample retains its shape in this way is an advantage, 
because as it is rubbed in the water it can easily be seen just what threads 
in the warp and the filling are cotton. A fimily woven all-wool fabric 
does not form a soft jelly at the end of twenty minutes. This shows the 
necessity of boiling thirty minutes as indicated in the table. 



1916] HOUSEHOLD CHEMICAL TESTS FOR TEXTILE FABRICS 37 

In the case of silk, characteristically greater resistance to boiling 
alkalies than that of wool is shown with the washing soda and the 
washing powders. In the silk and cotton mixtures, a gelatinous condi- 
tion of the silk will be found at the end of twenty-five minutes, the boil- 
ing being carried on with the same precautions as with wool. An all 
true silk sample will be greatly decreased in strength with thirty min- 
utes* boiling and a true silk and Tussar silk mixture will be decreased 
in strength as far as the true silk threads are concerned. 

COTTON AND LINEN 

It is very diftkult to find household chemical tests to distinguish be- 
tween cotton and linen, since these tests depend on strong acids. The 
acetic acid of vinegar and the lactic acid of sour milk are not strong enough 
to bring about any change in the vegetable fibers. However, many 
households use oxaHc acid and muriatic acid for stain removing purposes 
and these acids were used in the following tests. 

^ In using muriatic acid, thoroughly wash the sample of fabric and 
rinse it in hot, soft water to remove the finishing material. Dry thor- 
oughly and place in hot muriatic acid for one minute. Transfer quickly 
to fresh water. If the fabric is all cotton, the sample will drop into 
minute pieces, while if it is hnen the shape will remain unchanged. The 
special precaution to observe in this test is the accurate timing of the 
experiment and care in transferring the sample from the acid to the 
water so that no holes are in the fabric. 

In using oxalic acid, make a saturated solution by adding the crystals 
to water till some remain undissolved. Pour off a half pint of the clear 
liquid and boil the sample in this Hquid for fifteen minutes. Then re- 
move and allow to dry without washing. Test the strength of the fab- 
ric. Cotton samples will be found to be very brittle, while Hnen remains 
comparatively firm. 

Neither the muriatic acid nor the oxalic acid test is valuable for a 
cotton and Hnen mixture, except that there is a difference in degree of 
the weakening of the fibers. The muriatic acid test was found to be use- 
ful in distinguishing a cotton fabric that is claimed to be Hnen, the chief 
form of adulteration of cotton and Hnen fabrics. 



38 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

POTATO STARCH AND ITS USE IN THE HOME' 

The object of this recipe is to make possible the use of the culls and 
bruised and otherwise unmarketable potatoes and transform them into 
a desirable and practical product for home use. 

EQUIPMENT NEEDED 

Two clean pans, vats, or galvanized tubs, one large pan, one cylindri- 
cal grater, plenty of clean water, and wiping cloths. Instead of the 
grater a sausage grinder can be used to advantage for the grating of the 
potatoes. When using the sausage grinder it will be necessary to cut 
the potatoes into small pieces before feeding into the grinder. 

RECIPE FOR MAKING HOME-MADE POTATO STARCH 

Wash potatoes thoroughly, using plenty of water and a vegetable 
scrubbing brush. Seat yourself in a convenient position, with a vessel 
containing potatoes at one side and an empty vessel for the gratings on 
the other. Place dish pan with grater on low small table or upon your 
lap. Without removing the skins, grate your potatoes by hand or run 
them through the sausage grinder. Empty gratings into the second 
tub or vessel. Continue this operation until your vessel is one-half or 
two-thirds full of pulp, or until your potatoes have been used. 

Pour clean water over the gratings. Stir well, so as to saturate ever\' 
particle with water. Allow to stand for a little time and then remove 
the peehngs and other floating material from the top of the water. Stir 
again, add a little more clean water and allow the same to stand for 
several hours or over night. The starch granules will settle to the bot- 
tom and all pulp and potato skins will rise to the lop of the water or 
settle on top of the starch granules. Remove the water carefully, also 
the pulp and skins. Scrape the dark coat off the top of the starch for- 
mation, being careful not to remove any of the starch. 

A second time pour fresh, clean water over the starch. Stir thor- 
oughly. Allow to stand for several hours or over night. Remove 
water and pulp as before and add another application of water. Con- 
tinue this as often as is necessary to render your starch perfectly white 
and free, not only from pulp but from all sand or sedimenl of any kind 
which is not pure starch. 

'From the 0£Bce of Extension Work, North and Wtsi. 



1916] PROFITS IN COMMERCIAL BAKING 39 

This operation can be abbreviated somewhat by rinsing the first time 
and then straining the pulp, starch, and water through cheesecloth or 
cloth of finer mesh. 

Potato starch is a healthful food and can be used in many ways for 
food purposes, in the making of puddings, salads, milk dishes, etc. It 
is an easy method and one that children will enjoy, an excellent labora- 
tory experiment or demonstration for the school or Home Economics 
department, with the idea of furnishing recipes and preparing potato- 
starch dishes. 

In nearly every potato section of the United States thousands of 
bushels of cull potatoes are wasted every year which could just as well 
be utilized in this way through the manufacture of potato starch. 

Starch-making demonstrations and demonstrations in the prepara- 
tion of dishes are recommended especially for fairs and club festivals 
in the interest of potato club work. 



PROFITS IN COMMERCIAL BAKING, AND THE 
HOUSEKEEPER 

An article, pubhshed not long ago in the Catiadian Baker and Con- 
fectioner, which deals in a practical manner with the changes of tech- 
nique in baking necessitated by new materials and methods, contains 
the statement that to make a successful baking business a baker must 
produce baked goods to show a gross profit of at least 50 cents on the 
dollar for the work turned out. This is a trade estimate based on 
what the baker regards as a reasonable profit, it would seem. Pre- 
sumably it includes cost of material, fuel and labor. Is there not 
something in this statement for the housekeeper to think about? 
When she buys baked goods, does she save her own time at an in- 
creased cost of 50 per cent, as compared with home production? 
Before we can be sure that the above figure is correct, we need care- 
ful studies of the time (and its value), materials and fuel, needed 
for cake, bread, etc., made at home, and the local prices of similar 
things ready made. Will not more of our readers help gather such 
data? 



40 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

THE COMPARATIVE COST OF HOMEMADE AND MAKER'S 

BREAD 

ANNABELLE MARSH 

Sent in response to the article "Made at Home" by Miss Anna Barrows, published in the 
February (1915) Journal. 

The grocer delivered at the door a loaf of bread weighing 24 ounces 
for which I paid 10 cents. 

The question came up whether I could make bread of as good or 
better quality for less money, including materials, time and fuel in 
the cost. 

Using measuring cups, bread mixer, scales and clock for equipment, 
I experimented. The table below gives the result. 

In the first place, instead of making one loaf I made three, not 
too many for a family of six such as mine to use, and so saved time 
and fuel. The same amount of coal that would have been used for one 
loaf baked three loaves. The time required for making three loaves 
at once was less than would be needed in making one at three different 
times. The method used was the straight dough method. The bread 
was mixed and kneaded, allowed to rise over night, then put into 
tins, and when light, baked. The entire bread was weighed after 
cooling. In calculating the cost of materials, the proportion was used 
which would produce exactly the weight of the baker's bread. The 
same ratio was used for fuel and time. 

The time given included the manipulation of the bread and washing 
the bread mixer. The calculation of its value in money was based 
on actual wages received by a woman doing housework at $25 a month, 
working ten hours a day. 

The fuel used was coal. The fire was kept burning continually. 
The amount weighed and calculated was the extra coal required for 
heating the oven above what would have been used if the fire had been 
kept in check. 

Materials: 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar at 18 lbs. for $1 $0 . 0052 

3 tablespoonfuls lard at 15 cents per lb 0.014 

13 cupfuls flour at $7 per bbl .' '. . 1 183 

1 naagic yeast cake at 4 cents per box 0.005 

$0.1425 



1916] BACTERIA IX THE AIR 41 

Fuel: 

3 lbs. coal at $7.25 per ton $0.0108 

Time: 

33 minutes at $0.08 per hour . 044 

$0.1973 

Weight of bread 108 oz. 

Weight of baker's bread 24 oz. 

Cost of 24 oz. of home made bread $0.0438 

Cost of 24 oz. of baker's bread $0.10 

The quality of the homemade was equal to the baker's, but slightly 
more tender. 



BACTERIA IN THE AIR 

To the air has long been attributed a subtle potency to incite disease 
when suitable conditions prevail. One need not go back far in history 
to reach the days when "night-air" and "sewer-air" were feared as the 
bearers of indefinable dangers to health. The discovery of the role of 
micro-organisms in the transmission of disease has largely changed this 
attitude. It is true that air from certain localities, such as soils or sew- 
ers, may contain an admixture of gaseous impurities— carbon monoxid 
and dioxid, marsh gas and hydrogen sulphid — which are not wholesome 
to man. But these admixtures are, in all except the most unusual cir- 
cumstances, so small in amount as to have little if any harmful signifi- 
cance for health. The organic or solid impurities of the air give more 
cause for alarm, for they include the living bacteria. In sewer-air the 
proportion of micro-organisms is usually less than .... [in the 
air] of streets and houses, and the species are usually harmless. The 
movement of air in sewers is rather slow, so that abundant opportunity 
is afforded for the suspended particles, including .... [micro- 
organisms as well as minute particles of earth and other things which 
make up "dust,"] to become deposited on the moist surfaces. 

There is a growing conviction that in the majority of cases of so-called 
"air-borne" disease it is not the particulate constituents of the atmos- 
phere that are directly responsible for the transmission of disease. 
Suspended particles, including bacteria, may, of course, be sprayed 



42 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

about by the acts of coughing and sneezing and thus aid in the dissemi- 
nation of diseases, particularly those of the respiratory tract. But as 
a rule it appears that the diseases conveyed through the air are carried 
through the agency of insects acting as vectors or as hosts for the infec- 
tive parasites. In many hospitals, therefore, the ''air-borne" diseases 
are now treated side by side in the same ward without fear of greater 
transmission than if they were isolated in separate wards. Attention 
is centered on the possibility of the carrier agency, animate or inani- 
mate, rather than on the atmosphere as such. As a recent speaker ex- 
pressed a phase of it, the problem is one of wire screens more than of 
ventilation. Yet a recent systematic study by the New York State 
Commission on Ventilation showed clearly that the air of occupied 
spaces such as factories, schools and offices contains more bacteria than 
that of open spaces in the city or country. It is significant that the 
increase in streptococci manifests itself promptly in the occupied spaces. 
Whereas in country or city air there are rarely more than ten of this 
group of micro-organisms per hundred cubic feet of air, the number 
may rise to more than forty in factories. 

While there is a rapidly growing tendency, supported by much con- 
vincing evidence, to teach that ventilation has nothing whatever to do 
with either the transmission of the so-called "air-borne" diseases or the 
lessening of their transmission and the opinion is freely expressed that 
transmission by way of the air is of infinitely less importance than trans- 
mission by inanimate and animate carriers that have been in intimate 
contact with patients, yet the indisputable facts just cited regarding 
the comparative distribution of certain objectionable bacteria in occu- 
pied spaces still deserve respectful consideration in relation to the 
problems of public health. — The Journal of the American Medical 
Association. 



EDITORIALS 

The Journal. The success of the 1915 venture of issuing the Jour- 
nal ten times a year has made it seem possible to go a step further 
We are glad to announce that the Journal will be issued every month 
during 1916. 

Home Economics and Business. In business the methods which 
survive are those which have been found to justify themselves. The fact 
therefore, that railways are expending increasingly large sums of money 
m extension teaching in Home Economics is evidence that they find it 
profitable. Such teaching in agriculture has long been recognized as a 
means of promoting the prosperity of railways by developing the farming 
districts through which they pass. Home Economics was looked upon 
at first as more experimental, but the fact that it is now almost always 
found side by side with agriculture in this as in other kinds of teaching 
mdicates that better homes, like better crops, are considered necessary 
to prosperity. 

An instance of the attention now given to home matters in such "busi- 
ness" extension work, if one may so term it, is found in the work recently 
earned on in the Southern States, and noted in our news items on an- 
other page. 

Two Articles. We wish to call attention to two articles in this 
number, that by Miss Vivian, with its introduction by Professor Cole, 
and the one so generously contributed by Miss Lathrop 

Miss Vivian's, although technical, is worth study by aU who have to 
deal with a budget in any form. Professor Cole's note in regard to the 
interpretation of statistics should also be noted, for wrong conclusions 
based on false mterpretation of statistics is one of the many ways in which 
figures may he. 

Miss Lathop's paper suggests some new work for the Home Economics 
Association. Some college authorities who have opposed the intro- 
duction of Home Economics into the undergraduate course have ap- 
proved of It as graduate work, since it is professional, li an important 



43 



44 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

function of the college is " to develop in the student the scholarly method 
of work," " to point out problems which need investigation" and to "give 
to the student the scholar's necessary working equipment;" if educa- 
tion is to be made "the interpretation of present civilization and condi- 
tions of life," then why should not many of our graduate students, under 
competent direction, undertake such work as Miss Lathop has sug- 
gested, and why should not this association urge such an opportunity 
upon our women's colleges? 



COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 

The Journal of the American Medical Association of November 20 un- 
der the heading Asepsis and the Dish Towel quotes from the Journal 
OF Home Economics and adds : 

Among the low-priced restaurants and lunch rooms which are numbered by 
hundreds in our large cities, there is one (it is but a type — there are dozens like 
it) whose exterior of white brick and plate glass is as sparkling and bright as 
a newly frosted cake. Within, an expanse of white enamel, resplendent metal 
and spotless linen proclaim a devotion to cleanliness rivaled only by the 
surgical ward in a hospital. The waitresses are as neat and trim as uniformed 
nurses. In this stainless temple of alimentation one of the immaculate priest- 
esses has been seen to pick up a glass just used by a departing guest, polish 
it with the dish towel at her belt, and calmly replace it on the table to be 
used by the next patron! One might instance even more horrifying infringe- 
ments on prandial decency in more pretentious establishments; one might 
expatiate on the possible dangers of infection from such practices. The es- 
tablishments do not lose custom thereby, probably because the public, while 
vaguely impressed with the beautiful ideal of asepsis or perfect cleanliness, 
has a pathetically inadequate idea of what it means. It is therefore encourag- 
ing to read the article under the heading "The Mischievous Wiping Cloth," 
in the November issue of the Journal of Ho.me Economics 

Perhaps, if such ideas as these are becoming current, we may hope for the 
day when Bridget will invariably sterilize her dish cloth and scorn the dish 
towel for her aseptic dishes, while "neat-handed Phillis"will always complete 
her coiffure beyond all revision before coming to serve our food. ;\t any 
rate, one may always hope. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
Journal of Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 



Elementary Household Chemistry. By John 
Ferguson Snell. New York: The 
MacmiUan Company, 1914, pp. 307. 
$1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1.40. 

The title of this book will appeal particu- 
larly to those who have attempted to teach 
elementary chemistry to either high school 
or college girls, who have little interest in 
or knowledge of "pure science," but who 
respond to a study of things with which 
they are closely concerned. The hope of 
making use of such a book will be further 
raised by an e.xamination of its contents. 
While perhaps the author has attempted 
to do too much in a limited space, still 
he seems to have been for the most part 
fortunate in his choice of material. Ap- 
pro.ximately one-third of the volume is 
devoted to what may be called elementary 
chemistry. The remainder consists of more 
advanced work such as the study of fuels, 
foods, textiles, soaps, etc., together with the 
necessary chemistry. All of the subjects 
are intimately connected with the house- 
hold. At times the organic chemistr>' be- 
comes somewhat too involved, as in the 
discussion of the constitution of proteins, 
and in the use of structural formulae for 
the carbohydrates. It seems difficult to 
believe that such will have much meaning 
for elementary students. 

Laboratory experiments are intermingled 
with the text. The reviewer believes that 
this is unfortunate, as in too many cases the 
results of the experiment may be too easily 
predicted. For example, if the paragraph 
on page 22 were read the performance of 
the experiment of page 23 would be nearly 
useless. The entire separation of text and 
experiment would partially overcome this 
diflBculty. 



The text is clearly, concisely and accu- 
rately written, and is amply illustrated. The 
book deserves general recognition and use 
for the purpose intended. 

Source, Chemistry and Use of Food Prod- 
ucts. By E. H. S. Bailey. Philadel- 
phia: P. Blakiston's Son and Company, 
1914, pp. 517, figs. 75. $1.60. By mail 
of the Journal, $1.80. 

The author has compiled a considerable 
amount of information regarding the origin, 
character and use of a large variety of food 
products, which he has attempted to pre- 
sent in such a manner as to give "a practi- 
cal knowledge as to what constitutes a 
good food and where it is obtained." His 
purpose has been to prepare a book that 
would serve not only as a sort of compen- 
dium of information on food products for 
the general reader, but also as "a text for 
students of foods in our colleges and high 
schools." To the general reader the volume 
would probably prove interesting and in- 
structive, but more careful editing would 
improve it decidedly for use as a textbook. 
There are evidences of inaccuracy or care- 
lessness in preparation that are hardly to be 
expected in a book designed for the latter 
purpose. 

Laboratory Experiments on Food Products. 
By E. H. S. Bailey. Philadelphia: P. 
Blakiston's Son and Company, 1915, pp. 
vi -I- 44. 

In this small manual in pamphlet form 
directions are given for performing 154 
experiments "to enable the student to an- 
swer the question, of what substances are 
ordinary food materials composed and how 

45 



46 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[January 



are they sometimes adulterated, or mis- 
labeled." The experiments are chiefly quali- 
tative and so simple in character that the 
author would seem to be warranted in his 
belief that they can be performed, under 
instruction, by students who have taken a 
course in general chemistry, though they 
are perhaps better adapted to those some- 
what more advanced. 

In general the lesson that the experiment 
teaches is easy, but in some cases the real 
significance of the test is not as clear as 
it might be made. To an instructor in 
elementary food chemistry who for some 
reason has been unable to prepare his own 
course the pamphlet will doubtless prove 
helpful, but should be supplemented by 
lectures or textbook lessons for details 
of the subject. It is designated by the 
author for use with the book noted above. 
The Source, Chemistry and Use of Food 
Products. 



The Oriental Cook Book. By Ardashes H. 
Keoleian (formerly of Constantinople). 
New York: Sully and Kleinteich, 1913, 
pp. 349. $2. By mail of the Journal, 
$2.10. 

This collection of recipes is interesting 
not only because it gives directions for mak- 
ing Oriental dishes with materials available 
in the United States but also because it 
gives the reader glimpses into the gastron- 
omy of the Near East. According to the 
preface, Oriental cooking is wholly based 
on "remarkable combinations of food-stuCFs" 
and "on the theory that no one ingredient 
used should greatly outdo the others in 
strength, and that the result should be a 
perfect harmony." Moreover, cooker>- in 
the Orient appears to be regarded as an 
art rather than a science, and the author 
confesses to great difTiculty in obtaining 
exact reci|>c3 "perhaps for no other reason 
than this singular one, namely, the non- 
existence in the Orient, or among any of the 
Oriental nations — except among the ;\rmcn- 
ians, and that in an incfTicicnt form — of 
any regular literature upon the culinary art, 



which might have served us as a guide among 
the widely differing recipes and ideas upon 
cookery that have existed from time im- 
memorial, from the Balkans to Persia, and 
from Arabia and Egypt to the Caucasus." 
Under these conditions then, the wonder is 
not that the recipes given leave amounts of 
flavoring, etc., to the discretion of the cook, 
but that they are on the whole so easy to 
follow. They include a variety of sauces, 
soups, pilafs, modes of cooking fish, meat and 
vegetables, made dishes and preserves, 
many of them suggesting materials and com- 
binations quite unknown in this countrj-. 

A descriptive list is given of some of these 
special Oriental ingredients which may be 
obtained in this countrj-, among them pickled 
grapevine leaves, cummin, and hard Balkan 
cheese. 

The regular order of service for the vari- 
ous courses at an Oriental dinner is also given 
as well as a scure of typical menus. To a 
person interested in learning how the rest 
of the world lives, these are perhaps a trifle 
disappointing because they seem to repre- 
sent elaborate banquets rather than every- 
day family meals, but they illustrate clear- 
ly the Oriental love for elaborate combina- 
tions of materials and flavors. 

A Text Book of Domestic Science for High 
Schools. By Matilda G. Campbell. 
New York: The Macmillan Company, 
1913, pp. 219. $0.90, By mail of the 
Journal, $1. 

This book has a rather broad title since 
it deals with only one subject of domestic 
science, namely, food and nutrition. It is 
simply and comprehensively written to 
meet the needs and experience of the aver- 
age high school student. 

It docs not presuppose much knowledge 
of either chemistry or physics on the part of 
the student, but plans for a series of simple 
experiments, illustrating each new principle. 

In the main it is intensely practical, the 
one exception being the chapter on Tabic 
Service, in which elaborate and formal serv- 
ice is made the im|x)rlant feature rather 



1916} 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



47 



than the simple service which must be the 
rule in most homes unless undue labor and 
expenditure are involved. Knowledge of 
the essentials of relative value, of the possi- 
bilities of "gracious living," is what is most 
needed by the average high school girl. 

The Care oj the Baby. By J. P. Crozer 
Griffith. Philadelphia and London: W. 
B. Saunders Company, 1915, pp. 463. 
$1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.66. 

This ver>' suggestive book dealing with 
the care of children in health and in illness 
is much more comprehensive than the usual 
book dealing with these subjects, and for 
this reason will appeal strongly to mothers, 
and to many others who have to do with 
children. 

The first chapters consider the care of 
the mother before the baby comes, the char- 
acteristics of the healthy baby and its needs. 
In subsequent chapters are discussed such 
subjects as the suitable clothing for the 
baby; methods of feeding; conditions for 
rest and exercise; the training of children. 
A considerable portion of the book is de- 
voted to the sick baby. Symptoms of the 
various childrens' diseases are outlined, 
and directions for treatment are given in 
such cases as can be relieved without med- 
ical advice. An appendix contains many 
useful formulae for various household 
remedies. 

Those chapters dealing with feeding are 
in the main helpful. However, the same 
criticism may be made here as in many 
other popularly written books dealing with 
infant feeding. One finds statements made 
which are not in accord with scientific 
teachings. For example, rules are given 
for modifying breast milk as follows: "To 
increase the fat, increase the meat in the 
diet. To decrease the fat, decrease the 
fat in the diet. To increase the proteins, 
decrease the exercise. To decrease the pro- 
teins, increase the exercise to the point of 
fatigue." (Page 131.) Recent investiga- 
tions have shown that the variations in 
both fat and protein are dependent upon 



individual characteristics, more especially 
inheritance (breed in the case of cows) 
rather than upon quantity or character of 
the food. 

The author advocates the use of lime 
water in infant feeding "in order to neutralize 
the acidity, and more especially because 
it aids in the digestive process." Babies 
seem perfectly able to digest buttermilk, 
which is distinctly acid; and unless the lime 
water is added in very definite proportions 
it will not inhibit the curd formation. Most 
pediatrists are no longer using lime water 
in the milk formulae. 

Although the directions for making the 
milk formulae are sufficiently simple, only 
a food specialist or a physician would know 
under what conditions these should be given. 
If there is a fundamental principle involved 
it is not apparent to the average mother. 

The Mental Health of the School Child. By 
J. E. Wallace Wallin. New Haven: 
Yale University Press, 1914, pp. 464. S2. 

Dr. Wallin is one of the specialists in the 
field of mental health, and his earnest con- 
victions and incisive proposals regarding the 
responsibility and special duties of the 
schools in relation to the mentally unusual 
children are entitled to serious and thought- 
ful consideration. This book is a collection 
of articles and addresses prepared by the 
author for use on different occasions in ex- 
position of his knowledge and opinions con- 
cerning various closely related phases of the 
general field indicated by the title of the 
book. 

It seems unfortunate that the valuable ma- 
terial in this volume could not have been 
conveniently arranged in a smaller book with 
a more systematic classification of material 
and a more concise and telling presentation. 

Hov/ever, the writer marshals a sufficient 
body of facts, opinions and arguments to 
provide strong support for his main conten- 
tions : 

(a) That the maladjusted and mentally 
atypical pupils in the school should be rec- 
ognized, understood and properly provided 



48 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[January 



for according to their individual conditions 
and needs. 

(b) That, for this special task of identifi- 
cation, classification and technical guidance 
a new t>'pe of thoroughly trained educational 
expert is needed which the author would 
call a "psycho-clinicist" or a "clinical psy- 
chologist." 

(c) That an intelligent and really capable 
specialist in this educational field must have 
a new kind of professional training, including 
(in addition to other kinds of training) inten- 
sive study of abnormal psychology and one 
or two years of clinical and educational ex- 
perience in the special field under the guid- 
ance of a recognized expert. 

In the chapter on the "New Clinical Psy- 
chology" some valuable factors are given 
emphasis in relation to the comprehensive 
task of vocational direction. In another 
place just emphasis is given to the impor- 
tance of ha\ing the school give recognition 
and opportunity to the super-normal — the 
gifted children. In chapter twelve an in- 
teresting and suggestive comparison is made 



between the fields of euthenics and eugenics. 
Later, in discussing the difBci ties and ad- 
vantages of legal enactments safeguarding 
marriage, the vital principle is emphasized 
that "after all, the problem is not so much 
to get proper laws enacted as to secure the 
public sentiment that will demand their 
enforcement." 

Perhaps the most important fundamental 
proposition of this entire work occurs in the 
introduction to the seventeenth chapter. 
This reads in part as follows: 

"The preservation and promotion of the 
mental, physical, educational, social, moral 
and vocational efl5ciency of the individual is 
not only the most vital problem that con- 
fronts each human being, mature or imma- 
ture, but it is also the problem par excellence 
of the family, state and school. The obli- 
gation for the reclamation, conser%'ation and 
improvement of child life is being largely 
transferred to the state. The state has no 
agency which is able adequately to cope 
with the numerous problems involved except 
the public schools." 



PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 



The Arrangement of Household Furnishings. By Helen Binkerd Young. Ithaca, N. Y.: 
New York State College of Agriculture at Cornell University, April 1, 1915. pp. 11. (Cor- 
nell Reading Courses — Course for the Farm Home, vol. 4, no. 85, Farmhouse scries no. 
7). Free to residents of New York State. Address the Dept. of Home Economics, Col- 
lege of Agr., Ithaca, N. Y. 

School Lunches in Philadelphia. School Lunch Committee Home and School League, 4th 
Annual Report (1913-1914). Philadelphia: 1505 Land Title Bldg., 1915, pp. 63. 

Sugj^estions for Programs and Club Study with Topics for Discussion and Bibliographies. 
General Federation of Women's Clubs, Dept. of Home Economics, 1915, pp. 48. $0.10. 
Miss H. L. Johnson, 234 Paddock St., WatertowTi, N. Y. 

Suggestions to Responsible Teachers and Instructors of the Domestic Crafts and Home Organi' 
tation. London City Council, London: Victoria Embankment, W. C, 1915, pp. 32. 
(Evening Institutes). 

The Teaching of Community Civics. By J. Lynn Barnard, V. W . Carrier, Arthur William 
Dunn and Clarence D. Kingslcy. Washington, D. C: Government Printing OlTice, 
1915, pp. 55. $0.10. Supt. of Documents. (U. S. Bureau of Education Bulletin 1915, 
no. 23, whole number 650.) 

The Truant Problem and the Parental School. By James S. Hiatt. Washington, D. C: 
Government Printing OfTicc, 1915, pp. 35. $0.05. Supt. of Documents. (U. S. Bureau of 
Education Bulletin no. 29, wliole number 656.) 

Women's Institutes, Annual Report of for Province of British Columbia. By W. J. Bowser. 
Victoria, B. C, Canada: William H. CuUcn, 1915, pp. 70. 



1916] BOOKS AND LITERATURE 49 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 

Foods and Cookery 

Abnormal Amounts of Tin in Canned Foods. W. Rossee and von Morgenstem, Zlschr. 
OJentl. Chem., 20 (1914), no. 9, pp. 171, 172. (c/. Chem. Abs., 9 (1915), no. 7, p. 940.) 

Coloring Matter of Raw and Cooked Salted Meats. R. Hoagland, Jour. Agr. Res., 3 
(1915), no. 3, pp. 211-226, pis. 2, fig. 1. 

The Efifect of the Mineral Content of Water on Canned Foods. H. L. Huenink and E. 
Bartow, Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., 7 (1915), no. 6, pp. 495, 496. 

Organic Phosphoric Acid of Rice. Alice E. Thompson, Jour. Agr. Res., 3 (1915), no. 5, 
pp. 425-430. 

The Manufacture and Use of Unfermented Grape Juice. G. C. Husmann, U. S. Dept. 
Agr., Partners' Bui. 644 (1915), pp. 16, figs. 14. 

Mushrooms and Other Common Fungi. Flora W. Patterson and Vera K. Charles, 
U. S. Depl. Agr., Bui. 175 (1915), pp. 64, pis. 38. 

Examination of Tomato Pulp. W. D. Bigelow and F. F. Fitzgerald, Jour. Indus, and 
Eng. Chem., 7 (1915), no. 7, pp. 602-606. 

A Concise Group Method for the Detection of Gelatinizing Agents, Pastry Materials, and 
Thickeners Used in Food Products. L. A. Congdon, Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., 7 (1915), 
no. 7, pp. 606, 607. 

Tamarind Syrup. W. C. Taber, Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., 7 (1915), no. 7, pp. 607-609. 

Does Butter Fat Contain Nitrogen and Phosphorus? T. B. Osborne and A. J. Wake- 
man, Jour. Biol. Chem., 21 (1915), no. 1, pp. 91-94. 

Nutrition 

Differences in Digestion in Adults and Infants. J. F. McClendon, Jour. Amer. Med. 
Assoc, 65 (1915), no. 1, pp. 12-14. 

Prevention of Beriberi among Philippine Scouts by Means of Modifications in the Diet. 
W. P. Chamberlain, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc., 64 (1915), no. 15, pp. 1213-1220. 

Flies and Sick Babies. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 65 (1915), no. 3, p. 258. 

Investigations at the Nutrition Laboratory of the Carnegie Institution of Washington. 
F. G. Benedict, Science, 42 (1915), no. 1072, pp. 75-84. (General Description.) 

The Effect of Various Procedures on the Passage of Liquids from the Stomach. C. H. 
Neilson and S. L. Lipsitz, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 64 (1915), no. 13, pp. 1052-1055. 

Diet and Resistance to Disease. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 64 (1915), no. 12, 
pp. 998-1000. 

Diet and the Intestinal Bacteria. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 64 (1915), no. 18, 
p. 1500. 

Nutrition and Growth. L. B. Mendel, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 64 (1915), no. 19, pp. 
1539-1548. 

The Human Gastric Secretion. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 64 (1915), no. 19, 
pp. 1585, 1586. 

Hygiene and Sanitation 

Pasteurizing Milk in Bottles and Bottling Hot Milk Pastuerized in Bulk. S. H. Ayers 
and W. T. Johnson, Jr., U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui. 240 (1915), pp. 27, figs. 10. 

Standards of Ventilation in the Light of Recent Research. C. E. A. Winslow, Science, 
41 (1915), no. 1061, pp. 625-632. 



50 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

Some Results of the First Year's Work of the New York State Commission on Ventilation. 
C. E. A. Winslow et al, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 5 (1915), no. 2, pp. 85-11^. figs. 11. 

Clean Water and How to Get it on the Farm. R. W. Trullinger, U. S. Dept. Agr. Year 
book Sep. 634 (1914), pp. 18, pis. 3, figs. 6. 

Ventilation. J. Herzstein, Survey, 33 (1915), no. 21, pp. 555, 556. 

The Use of Copper Sulphate in the Purification of Swimming Pools. S. J. Thomas, 
Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., 7 (1915), no. 6, pp. 496-499. 

The Federal Meat Inspection Service and Sanitation of Packing Houses imder its Super- 
vision. G. H. Shaw, Amcr. Jour. Pub. Health, 5 (1915), no. 3, pp. 236-245. 

Third Progress Report of the Committee on Standard Methods for the Examination 
of Air. Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 5 (1915), no. 3, pp. 251-254. 

Educational ajtd Social Work 

Education for the Home. — Part I, Introductory Survey; Equipment for Household Arts. 
B. R. Andrews, Bur. Ed. [U. S] Bui. 36 (1914), pp. 53 + IV. 

Education for the Home. — Part II, The States and Education for the Home; Rural 
Schools; Elementary Schools; High Schools; Technical Institutes; Various Agencies and 
Organizations. B. R. .\ndrews, Bur. Ed. [U. S] Bui. 37 (1914), pp. 207 + IV. 

Education for the Home. — Part III, Colleges and Universities. B. R. Andrews, Bur. 
Ed. [U. S] Bui. 38 (1914), pp. 109 + IV. 

Education for the Home. — Part IV, List of References on Education for the Home; 
Cities and Towns Teaching Household Arts. B. R. Andrews, Bur. Ed. [U. S] Bui. 39 
(1914), pp. 61 + IV. 

A New Kind of Health Educational Exhibit. Amer. Food Jour., 9 (1914), no. 11, pp. 624- 
628, figs. 6. Descriptions and illustrations are given of models showing chUd welfare work, 
the pollution of wells, the action of the fly, and the dangers of impure air. 

Histor>' and Development of Lunches in High Schools. Julia Pulsifer, 4. Internal. Cong. 
School Hyg. Bufalo, N. Y., Trans., 5 (1913), pp. 324-328. 

School Restaurants. L. Meyer, 4. Internal. Cong. School Hyg. Bufalo, N. Y., Trans. 
3 (1913), pp. 340-343. 

The Training of the School Dietitian. Caroline L. Hunt. 4. Internal. Cong. School Hyg. 
Buffalo, N. Y., Trans. 5 (1913), pp. 334-339. 

High School Lunches under School Board Control. Emma Smedley, 4. Internal. Cong. 
School Hyg. Buffalo, N. Y., Trans. 5 (1913), pp. 329-333. 

The .Administration of School Lunches in Cities. Alice C. Boughton, 4. Internal. Cong. 
School Hyg. Buffalo, N. Y., Trans. 5 (1913), pp. 304-308. 

Steps in the Evolution of Baby Welfare Work in Chicago [infant Feeding]. S. C. Kings- 
ley, Chicago: Elizabeth McCormick Memorial Fund, 1914, pp. 32, figs. 8. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



Quebec Homemakers' Clubs. — The his- 
tory of these organizations as compared with 
that of the other provinces in the Dominion 
is unique inasmuch as the women of Quebec, 
unassisted by the Government, began this 
work themselves. In all the other provinces 
of Canada, the provincial government has 
not only assisted in establishing Agricultural 
Societies for the benefit of the farmers, but 
has established separate organizations for 
the women of the farm homes, and has made 
special provision for giving them instruction 
along lines bearing directly upon the duties 
devolving upon them as homemakers. 

In 1914, ^Macdonald College promised to 
aid the clubs in every way possible until 
such a time as the Government should come 
to their assistance. The Government has 
now agreed to aid in printing the handbooks. 

A circulating library, consisting of Gov- 
ernment bulletins, pamphlets and maga- 
zine clippings, was started by the School of 
Household Science in 1912, and has been 
available for clubs for use in preparing pro- 
grams for their meetings. 

Besides the circulating library just men- 
tioned the School of Household Science sends 
out for use in the clubs four traveling libra- 
ries of thirty-five volumes each, twenty-four 
of which deal with subjects pertaining to 
household science, and the remainder are 
standard works of fiction, poetry, biography, 
etc. Lectures and demonstrations are given 
by the college demonstrator and by members 
of^the Household Science staff. 

At the second annual convention of the 
clubs held at Macdonald College, June 15- 
16, 1915, the report of Miss Campbell, dem- 
onstrator for the clubs, showed that since 
the last convention the clubs had increased 
from eight to thirty-three, and the mem- 
bership from 252 to 633. 

The object of the Quebec Homemakers' 
Clubs as set forth in the Constitution is as 



follows: "The object of Homemakers* 
Clubs shall be to study the most scientific 
way of conducting home work in order to 
economize, strengthen and preserve the 
health of the family; to discuss the best ex- 
penditure of money in order to secure the 
highest conditions of home life; to provide 
better financial, social and intellectual ad- 
vantages for farm boys and girls and yet 
keep them on the farm; to carry on any 
line of work which has for its object the wel- 
fare of home or community life." 



The Garland School for Homemaking 

opened on Wednesday, the sixth of October, 
with seventy students. 

The new members of the faculty this year 
are Miss Mabel Hill, Associate-Director; 
Miss Harriet Park, Secretary and Science 
teacher; ]Mrs. Margaret H. Abels, Econo- 
nomics; and Miss Alice Jordan, Children's 
Literature. 

One of the most interesting of the new 
short courses is the one given by Mr. 
Thomas Whitney Surette, on music. The 
first two lectures are on music for children; 
the second two deal with music in relation 
to poetry, painting, and sculpture; the next 
group with classic and romantic music, and 
with the symphony and the opera. The 
course ends with special lectures on Bach 
and Beethoven. 

Other short courses open to the general 
public are those in Applied Economics, Ap- 
plied Sociology-, The Study of Child Psy- 
cholog}'. Household Management, Home 
Nursing, and Business Knowledge necessary 
for the Homemaker. 

A new home-house opened this fall so 
that there are now three of these practice 
houses in which the students live through 
the year in family groups. 

51 



52 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[January 



Detroit Home Economics Association. 
— The November meeting of the Detroit 
Home Economics Association was held in the 
Detroit Federation of Women's Clubs Build- 
ing, Saturday, November 13, with the Presi- 
dent, Miss Deda L. Emmons presiding. 

Music was furnished by the Misses Era- 
ser, with violin, cello, and piano. Mr. 
John 11. Trybom, Director of Manual Train- 
ing in the public schools, gave the Address 
of Welcome. iMiss Isabel Bevier, of the 
University of Illinois, spoke upon Art in the 
Home, dividing her subject into the con- 
struction, the decoration, the industries, and 
the spirit of the house. Dr. Chas. E. Chad- 
sey. Superintendent of Schools, followed, ex- 
pressing the hope that within a short time 
one-fourth of a girl's school-life, from the 
third grade on, could be spent in the study of 
Home Economics in the broadest sense. 

Preceding the meeting, a luncheon in 
honor of Miss Bevier was given at the Col- 
lege Club, about fifty guests attending. 
Guests were present from Ypsilanti, East 
Lansing, Saginaw and Wyandotte. 

* 

The Home Economics Association of 
Greater New York held a meeting on De- 
cember 3 in commemoration of Mrs. Ellen 
H. Richards. Mrs. V. V. Farone, manager 
of the Fifth Avenue Restaurant and also 
of the Madison Square spoke on "Market- 
ing for One Thousand." 

The School of Household Science and 
Arts of Pratt Institute served a supper 
for the Association on December 1. 

The Minnesota Home Economics As- 
sociation held its second annual meeting in 
Minneapolis, October 29 and 30. 

Representatives from the Housewives* 
LeAgue and the Woman's Club were present. 
A luncheon was served on October 29, at 
the East High School. Seventv-six mem- 
bers of the association were present. 

The Home Economics Association of 
Washington, D. C, held the second meeting 
of the year November 9, in the form of an 



evening trip through Corby's bi-ead factory 
The large attendance and ki;cn interest of 
those present suggest that such meetings as 
this might be planned more often. 
* 

The Sectional Conference on Home 
Economics. — In response to the invitation 
of Dr. Claxton, the United States Commis- 
sioner of Education, fourteen visiting teachers 
from ten normal schools in dififerent parts 
of the South, gathered at George Peabody 
College for Teachers in Nashville, Tennessee, 
for the first sectional conference of Home 
Economics teachers in state normal schools, 
on Tuesday and Wednesday, November 
16, and 17. The conference was under the 
special direction of Miss Carrie Lyford, 
specialist in Home Economics of the United 
States Department of Education. The 
opening address on Tuesday morning, by 
Dr. Claxton, showed the great need of an 
adjustment of normal school courses to the 
needs of the young teacher, and especially 
to the teacher preparing herself for work in 
rural schools. 

Tuesday morning was devoted chiefly 
to a discussion of the proper length of the 
Home Economics course in such schools, 
and of what it should include. One problem 
which nearly all normal school teachers of 
Home Economics meet is the great demand 
for a short course in the subject, especially 
by teachers preparing themselves for grade 
work, or for rural schools. They seem to 
expect a sort of "canned course" which 
will enable them in a few weeks to become 
thoroughly conversant with the subject. 

Other familiar and definite problems con- 
sidered were the grouping of general studies 
to be taken parallel to the Home Economics 
course; the differentiation of the course in 
the normal school from that in the state 
university; and how much practice teaching 
should be given; and where, whether in the 
demonstration or practice school, or in a 
rural school under conditions similar to 
those which a young teacher is likely to 
encounter. 

Suggestions for a follow- up system were 
given with other ways of keeping in touch 



1916J 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



53 



with graduates in the field, and the possi- 
bilities of extension work from the normal 
school were discussed. 

The topics which occupied most of Wed- 
nesday morning were the standardization 
of courses in Home Economics and normal 
school credit for high school work, with the 
expression of the general opinion that high 
school work should receive a fair amount of 
credit but that the normal schools should 
urge a more or less uniform course of study 
in the high schools of the different states 
in order to avoid duplication of work, and 
to allow the normal school to give more 
time to other phases of the work. 

The final meeting of the conference was 
devoted to an informal discussion of courses 
in home management, and to the question 
of school credit for home work. Miss 
Virginia Moore, the State Agent for Ten- 
nessee in charge of Canning Club work 
gave a survey of the scope of the work in 
the state of Tennessee, and the possibilities 
of its development in rural communities. 
* 

The National Conference on Teacher- 
Training for Rural Schools. — At the same 
time and place of this Sectional Conference 
of Home Economics teachers there took 
place another conference, also called by the 
United States Commissioner of Education, 
The Second National Conference on Teacher- 
Training for Rural Schools. There were 
present at this conference over a hundred 
men and women from thirty states — as far 
East as Vermont, and as far West as Colorado 
and Texas. They were men and women 
interested not only in education but in rural 
life as well, and they came particularly 
to discuss The Better Preparation of 
Teachers for Rural Schools. This confer- 
ence urged that the training of rural school 
teachers should include instruction in agri- 
culture, home economics, manual training, 
rural sociology, and economy, hygiene, 
sanitation and playground work, and that 
the equipment for the work in agriculture 
should include a tract of farm land. 

The members of the conference propose 
to introduce a nation-wide campaign for 



full and equal opportunities for education 
for every boy and girl of America, and as a 
means to this end they ask that rural com- 
munities shall meet the following conditions: 

1. A school term of not less than 160 days 
for each child. 

2. A sufBcient number of teachers ade- 
quately prepared for their work. 

3. Consolidation of rural schools with an 
average area of about twelve miles for each 
school. 

4. A teacher's home and a demonstration 
farm from five to fifty acres, a part of the 
school property. 

5. An all-year session adapted to local 
conditions. 

6. A county library with branch libraries 
at the centers of population with the schools 
as distributing centers. 

7. Community organization with the 
school as the intellectual, industrial, edu- 
cational and social center. 

8. High school opportunities for every 
one. 

The men and women present at the con- 
ference are leaders not only in their com- 
munities but in their states and the nation 
as well, therefore it is reasonably certain 
that the proceedings of the meetings will 
bear fruit before long. 



Wanted: Facts for Domestic Art. — Mrs. 
Martha H. French, Director of Domestic 
Art in the State Normal College, Ypsi- 
lanti, Michigan, is collecting facts and 
suggestions regarding the material and 
equipment for teaching the domestic art 
subjects of sewing, dressmaking and mil- 
linery, with the idea of making the facts 
available for teachers in this field. 

Those who have to do with domestic art 
work are invited to contribute from their 
experience; thus advancing the interests of 
all. 

The National Society for the Promotion 
of Industrial Education will meet in Min- 
neapolis, January 20-22, with headquarters 
at the Hotel Radisson. 



54 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOiUCS 



[January 



At this conference reports will be made on 
the various phases of the Minneapolis sur- 
vey of schools and industries made by this 
society during the past year. Suggestions 
will be given for improving conditions that 
this survey has revealed. 

The American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation will be represented by Miss Sarah 
Louise .Arnold, Dean of Simmons College. 
At a sectional meeting Home Economics 
training in vocational and other schools 
will be discussed by iMiss Abby Marlatt, 
Miss Josephine Berry, Miss Lilla Frick, Miss 
Carrie Wilkerson, Miss .\nna ^1. Cooley, 
Mrs. Roy Fletcher, and Mrs. Harvey 
Hickock. 

A cordial invitation to be present is ex- 
tended to all teachers of Home Economics. 

A Rail way Demonstration Train. Oneof 
the ten cars comprising the Queen and Cres- 
cent Development Train, which made a trip 
through the South between August 15 and 
September 11, was given over to Domestic 
Science. There were exhibits of labor-sav- 
ing devices for kitchen and dairy, and fre- 
quent demonstrations of cooking, preserv- 
ing, and canning were given by Miss Minnie 
W. Hopper, a teacher in Greensboro College 
for Women, with several years' experience 
in school work in Home Economics, and 
Miss Cora Deddridge, a graduate of the 
Mississippi Industrial Institute and Col- 
lege, Columbus, who has taught Home Eco- 
nomics and lately has been connected with 
canning club work in the South. Besides 
this car, which was particularly helpful to 
women as housekeepers, there were other 
exhibits which interested them from the 
standpoint of money making. These in- 
cluded poultry, vegetables, and other farm 
products commonly raised by women, and 
demonstrations of modem methods of pack- 
ing and shipping. 

Teacher's College. Owing to changes in 
the management and use of the Spe>'er 



School, the work at the Amy Srbiissler apart- 
ment during the coming year will be differ- 
ent from that of last year. Beginning in 
February the Speyer School is to be used as 
an experimental high school for boys, the 
Board of Education of New York City and 
Teachers College cooperating. No one will 
live in the apartment this year but it will 
be in constant use for neighborhood work. 
Classes from neighboring institutions will be 
held there daily, afternoon and evening. 



Brief Notes. — Miss Katherine Mills, Cor- 
nell 1914, during the past year held an ex- 
tension position in Erie County, New York. 
There was a total attendance of over 3000 at 
the twenty schools held in different parts of 
the county. In June Miss Mills was mar- 
ried to Dr. Hamilton of Delphi, New York. 

Miss Anna Barrows is to be at the Oregon 
Agricultural College, Corvallis, Oregon, to 
give lectures before the Farmers and Home 
Makers Conference Januar>' 3-8. February 
1-4 she will fill a similar engagement at the 
Housekeepers Conference at Logan, Utah. 
The remainder of February she expects to 
spend in California and may be addressed in 
care of Miss Alice L. Thomas, Long Beach, 
California. 

At the meeting of the Marj-land State 
Federation of Women's Clubs held in Balti- 
more on November 18, 1915, Mrs. .Abel, 
our former editor, who is now first vice- 
president of the State Federation, and State 
chairman of Home Economics, presided 
over the session on Home Economics. 
Mrs. Norton spoke briefly upon "The 
American Home Economics .Association 
and the Smith-Lc\'cr Bill;" and Mi.«is Kathe- 
rine A. Pritchctt, State .\gcnt, Demonstration 
Work, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, explained 
in a most effective address "How the Smith- 
Lever Bill Works in Maryland." We hope 
later to puWWi this address in the Journal. 



Vol. VIII. No. 2 FEBRUARY. 1916 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemakinft. Institution Management, 
and Kducational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs Alice P Nortom. EJilor Kf.tl-rah E. Baldwin-, \fanciging Editor 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel A>rNA Barrows C. F. Lancworthy Isabel Ely Lo«d 

Ex-Officio A/ rwitri— Martha Van Rensselaer, President American Home Economic* Association 
Sarah Louise .\rnold, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Ri'TH Wheiler. Chairman Science Section 
Gertrude McCheyne, Chairman Extension Education Section 

Collatkiriuors— The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisers 



CONTENTS 

CoSTi-ME i\ T!n-; CcoKF.RY L.VBORATORY Isabel Ely Lord .S.S 

The Development of Home Economics in Social Work .... Wimfrrd S. Gihhs 68 

The Exposition Plaque 74 

.\ New Departure IN THE Teaching OF Sewing Edtta Irene Avery 75 

The Need of Training Teachers for Extension Education W^oRK . . Alice Loomis 78 

The Ellen H. Richards Research Fund 81 

Calories IN the Edible Portion of A Number OF Foods 82 

Sanitary Dishwashing Brrthi Slrveusnu 83 

For the Homemakf.r 85 

Living Expenses of Womkn Stidents at the University of Illinois . Cora E. Gray 8.S 

Honey ant> its Uses in the Home 87 

Candled Cranberries 91 

Good Health Commercially Considered 92 

Baby Week 92 

Editorials 94 

Books and Literature 97 

Bibliography of Home Economics 101 

News from the Field 10.3 



The Journal oi Home Economics Is published monthly by the American Home Economics .Association. 
$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.25. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on New York, Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable 
to the American Home Economics .Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CH.WGE IX .ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which the 
change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old .Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION Station N, Baltimore, Md. 

Entered as second cLiss matter at the Baltimore Post Office 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 



Vol. VIII FEBRUARY, 1916 No. 2 



COSTUME IN THE COOKERY LABOR.\TORY 

ISABEL ELY LORD 
Director, School oj Household Science and Arts, Pratt Institute 

As the result of a recent discussion by the Editorial Board, it was 
decided that the facts concerning costume requirements for class work 
in cookery would be of interest to all teachers of Home Economics, 
and that an effort should be made to coUect such facts. The questions 
were to be asked only of colleges, universities and normal schools, and 
accordingly in May, 1915, there was sent to the 217 such institutions 
appearing in the list of schools teaching Home Economics— pubhshed 
in the Journal of June, 1911— the following questionnaire: 

1. Do you require a costume? 

2. If so, how are directions given for making? Attach copy if possible. 

3. If not a uniform what requirements do you make as to material 
of waist and skirt? 

4. State any requirements as to colorof (1) waist, (2) skirt, (3) collar, 
(4) tie, (5) cap, (6) apron, (7) any other requirement. 

5. Is there any other requirement for collar? If so, what? 

6. Is there any other requirement for tie? If so, what? 

7. Is an apron required? Of what type? Uniform? 

8. Is a cap required? Uniform? Attach pattern if possible. 

9. Is there any requirement as to shoes? 

10. Is jewelry forbidden? 

11. Are students allowed to wear this costume outside the cookery 
laboratory? If so, where? 

12. If a uniform, is it planned for quick dressing? 

13. What value do you think the uniform has? 

55 



56 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

14. Do you attempt to impress upon your students the value of wear- 
ing the uniform after graduation, in any professional position :■' 

15. What objection have you to a uniform? 

Answers were received from 110 of the 217, 9 replying that they had 
no work in Home Economics. Of the 101 giving data, 62 were colleges 
or universities, 39 normal schools (including any college or university 
having Teacher or Normal in its title) . 

Of the 101, 3 (1 college, 2 normal schools) have no requirements what- 
ever as to dress in the cookery laboratory. At the other extreme are 
18 (13 colleges, 5 normal schools) that require a uniform. Eighty 
(48 colleges, 32 normal schools) have some requirement as to costume, 
but not a complete uniform. 

The two groups — colleges and universities, and normal schools — were 
kept separate in compiling the data, since in the majority of the latter 
the students are to become teachers of Home Economics, while in many 
of. the former there is a large proportion of students taking the work for 
home use. There was, however, so little difference between the two 
groups that the figures are given together. 

Dress. The data on the different parts of the dress for the group of 
80 having some costume requirement are as follows: 

Requirement for whole dress 14 Requirement for waist only 

White washable 10 White washable 21 

Washable (no color given) 4 Washable (1 dark blue) 18 

Recommendation for waist only 

Recommending a whole dress 25 White washable 3 

White washable 21 Washable 2 

Washable 4 Requirement for skirt 

Washable 2 

Requiring washable waist and recom- Black cloth 2 

mending washable skirt 4 Blue serge 2 

It should be noted that where cloth skirts are required, they are 
apparently part of the regular college or school uniform. It is hardly 
conceivable that otherwise there would be a requirement to wear wool 
in the kitchens. 

Aprons. This is the one point in which there is uniformity as to re- 
quirement, for those who require anything. 

Apron required 80 Waitress' apron. 1 

Uniform apron 44 Must cover skirt 4 

Uniform apron with bib .37 Must have bib (even when not uniform) 26 

Nurse's apron 5 



1916] COSTUME IN THE COOKERY LABORATORY 57 

White is not always specified, but is probably always required. Straps 
over the shoulder are in the same case. The materials, so far as specified, 
range from lawn through Indian head to butcher's linen. 

The tendency seems to be toward uniformity in aprons, as several 
signify their intention of requiring uniformity in the near future. The 
reason will be evident to those who have tried general directions for a 
"plain white apron covering the whole dress" and have seen the extra- 
ordinary results that such directions can produce. Frills and ham- 
burg edging vary the plainness, and ''all over" is taken to mean the 
front of the skirt only, and also to require a complete high necked and 
long sleeved dress. The requirement of uniformity in aprons is a 
simple one, and has none of the objections urged against the uniform, 
except that it does not permit the individuahty of the student free play. 

Cap. Here is the greatest diversity of the whole list: 

Require cap 16 Do not require cap 57 

which is uniform for 14 No answer, probably do not 6 

Even of the 18 that require a uniform, only 5 require the cap, while 
12 say they do not, and one not answering, should supposedly be added 
to this last group. 

No special question was asked about the advisability of the cap, but 
there were a number of remarks about it. The reasons for it seem to be 
(1) the sanitary value of having the hair covered; (2) the professional 
look given to the costume; (3) the help in encouraging neat and trim 
hair dressing and the avoidance of extravagance in this respect. On 
the other hand, some consider the usual cap (which does not cover the 
whole head) ridiculous and farcical, two object that they are often 
unbecoming, and one thinks the hair is better dressed if there is no cap 
to cover it. 

Accessories. The report on these does not seem very satisfactorily 
full, but is as follows: 

Collar: Prefer low 1 

Require white 9 Prefer starched 1 

Require turnover 4 Require high tailored 1 

One low collar is described as Dutch, one as Buster Brown. 

Tie: 

Require white 7 Require black Windsor 1 

of these washable 2 Require washable if any 2 



58 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

Several mention that neck may not be very low, but this would seem 
to come under the head of general suitability. 

Shoes: Walking shoes required 1 

Require rubber heels 5 Black shoes required 1 

Recommend rubber heels 4 Low heels suggested 1 

It is interesting to note that besides the five here that require rubber 
heels, there are five more in the "full uniform" group with the same 
requirement, and one more recommends them. The advantages are 
great in the way of quiet in the building and of ease to students who 
must stand for much of their work. The difference as to noise can be 
appreciated only by those who have tried both ways. The expense to 
students is not great. 

One entertaining answer to this question said that there was no re- 
quirement as to shoes, "except they must have shoes of some kind." 

Jewelry. The seeming diversity here is probably less in practice 
than on paper, though some of us have seen rather appalHng displays 
of fancy combs, fancy pins, long chains, rings and even bracelets in 
some classes in cookery. 

Jewelry forbidden 31 Recommended or requested not to wear. . 5 

Rings forbidden 4 Same for rings 3 

Bracelets forbidden 3 Disapproved 1 

Excessive amounts forbidden 3 Not necessar>' to forbid 1 

Xone forbidden 6 As little as possible 1 

Discouraged 13 

Naturally the schools and colleges that require full uniform offer no 
place for jewelry, and 13 of the 18 definitely forbid it. In 2 more it is 
"discouraged," in 1, students are requested not to wear it, and in 1 they 
are expected to remove their rings. 

At one school there is a definite exemption of the wedding ring from 
the exclusion, in deference to the superstition that with many forbids 
sit removal for any purpose. But even then students wearing it are 
asked to remove it during cookery work if they ever take it off for any 
purpose. 

Other Requirements. A good many mentioned under this head the 
requirement that students have their own holders and hand-towels, 
but as these are part of the equipment rather than the dress, no account 
is taken of them here. A few mentioned a requirement of three-quarter 
sleeves or "short" sleeves, a few the requirement of white cuffs, and a 
few (where long sleeves are worn) that of ovcr-slccvcs. 



1916] COSTUME IN THE COOKERY LABORATORY 59 

Quick Dressing. This is an important point, as is shown by the 
number (23) who gave as an objection to the uniform the time required 
to dress. Eleven of the colleges and universities and all (5) of the 
normal schools requiring uniforms said that it was especially planned 
to permit rapid dressing. The time allowed for this was not asked, and 
so is not stated. At Pratt Institute ten minutes are allowed for chang- 
ing into the uniform at the beginning of a cookery laboratory period, 
and the same time at the end for changing to ordinary dress. With the 
uniform as planned, and a locker and dressing room set aside for this 
purpose, the time is sufficient. 

Wearing Costume Outside. There seems to be little uniformity of 
practice in this respect. Of the 18 requiring a uniform, 8 direct that it 
shall not be worn outside, although in one or two cases it is allowed at a 
class immediately following cookery. SLx of this group allow the wear- 
ing of the dress outside, but not the apron (or cap). One allows it in 
chemical laboratory and sewing class and 1 says it is "not the custom," 
while 2 allow the whole costume anywhere. 

Of the larger group, many did not answer the question. Twenty 
forbid it outside, 11 allow it any-where, 14 forbid the apron (and cap) 
outside, 1 allows the costume in the dining room of the dormitory and 
1 in the sewing class. 

Directions for Making. Where any part of the costume is uniform, 
this is a very important point. Of the 18 requiring full uniform, 5 
have printed directions, 4 typewritten directions. In one the uniform 
is a regular college one (with apron) ; in 1 where it is required only in the 
senior year, directions are given in the junior year; in 3 the instructor 
in domestic art gives the directions, in 1 there is a model on a dress 
form, and in 1 a commercial pattern is used. Samples of material 
are sent by at least 6. The fullest directions are those given by Pratt 
Institute, in a printed folder, with cut of the costume, sample of material 
and blue prints of collar and cuff patterns. 

Of the larger group 4 have printed and 3 typewritten directions for the 
requirements. In 2 the aprons are made in the sewing class. Twelve 
altogether direct the purchase of commercial patterns. It may be of 
interest to some to know that the following patterns were given as 
being used for uniform aprons: Pictorial Review 4930; Ladies Home 
Journal 7434 (this is one of the universities requiring a uniform) ; Jones 
Dry Goods Company, Fort Collins, Colorado, pattern designed for 
Colorado State Agricultural College (20c. and postage); Butterick 3592 



60 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

(one of the universities requiring a uniform), 5361 (by three, one requir- 
ing full uniform), and 6307. This last is the pattern of the apron used 
at Pratt Institute, and is required at four other schools. 

Cap patterns are furnished by a number of the schools and offer 
noticeable variety. Some are of the circle type with a frill, covering 
practically all of the hair, but the majority use a cap covering the top 
of the head only (like the usual nurse's cap) and it is these that have 
called forth the strictures reported under the heading "Cap." 

Full Uniforms. We may now describe a Httle more in detail the full 
uniforms required by the 18. They vary so widely that it is a little 
hard to give a definite picture, but here are the data : 

Whole Dress: 

Blue chambray 7 White waist 3 

White 3 White aprons 18 

Blue wash material 1 White collar 14 

Striped blue and white gingham 1 White cuffs 5 

Pink chambray 1 White tie 6 

Gray chambray for seniors 1 Black tie 1 

Blue and white ripplette 1 White cap 5 

Navy blue wash blouse and blue serge Rubber heels on shoes 5 

skirt 1 

A number of the schools (which cannot be stated definitely because 
the question was not asked) require students to wear white while teach- 
ing practice classes, even when the class uniform is of different color. 
This is, for example, the case at Pratt Institute, where blue chambray 
is worn for class work. 

The disadvantage of the white uniform, especially in the cheaper 
white materials, is that it is very hard to keep clean. Chambray is an 
excellent textile from this point of view. The colors given here are 
blue, pink and gray. The reason for the predominance of blue is 
apparently that it is a more attractive color than gray and does not 
fade as badly as pink. 

A word as to the collar and tie. For many years some of the schools 
required the high starched linen collar, with a white lawn tie. This was 
the custom at Pratt Institute, and certainly in some other schools. But 
with the emancipation from the high collar for everyday wear, this has 
become very uncomfortable neckwear for most students. Some schools 
have met this by changing to a turnover starched collar with white or 
black tie, some use a white pique turnover collar. At Pratt Institute 



1916] 



COSTUME IN THE COOKERY LABORATORY 



61 




e°°KERY C^5Tur)E 



Pratt Institute, School of Household Science and Arts 
Butterick I'attem 6307 gives this Apron (used in four other schools) 





Ladies Home Joumnl Pattern 7434 used, 
with modifications, at Cornell University 



Pictorial Review Pattern 4930 
used at Simmons CoUcKe 




3592 




5361 



Bultcrick Pattern 3592. (James Milliken University without breteUes) 
Buttcrick I'.iltem 5361 (three schools) 

62 






Front 2 yds. wide 

MUwaukee Do^vner College Dress 
63 





Coo<in« Fjpron Finish* A 



^^v 




/ 


t i 

1 J ^ 


! 

i 

! 1 


1 I 



fit3 



Fold of Mate rial 




f .6 / 



State College, New Mexico 




(For CoU«g« CUmti) 



(For y«cf>ncl»ry 
School ClUM*) 



Department of Home Economics, Colorado Agricultural College 

64 



1916] COSTUME IN THE COOKERY LABORATORY 65 

this year a turnover collar was designed at the School, and blue print 
of pattern sent all incoming students, the collar to be made of white 
cotton poplin. The reason for adopting this rather than a starched 
turnover collar was that it was thought easier with this material to use a 
pin in place of the white tie. The tie adds to the difficulties of dressing, 
and on the whole the pin seems to us trimmer. The Pratt pin is a uni- 
form one, a white enamel bar, two inches long, coming to a point at 
either end. These pins are on sale at the School, to ensure uniformity. 
The collars made by amateur dressmakers were so far from uniform and 
many so ill-fitting that students are now required to buy a starched 
turnover Trouville collar (with cape) when they need a new one. 

Value of Uniform. Naturally all those schools that require the uniform 
consider it valuable and 17 of the other normal schools and 20 colleges 
also speak in its favor; one normal school and two colleges consider 
that it has no value whatever. In the reasons given for the value, it is 
rather difficult to make a classification, as the same general idea is 
expressed in many ways. "Suitability" is the general word and was 
used by 10 of the 55 stating a value, while "simplicity" (3) and "standard 
kitchen dress" (1) undoubtedly belong here, as well as the statement 
that "it overcomes improper dressing, such as woolen material and low 
necks." Perhaps here goes best the statement that it "develops 
pride in appropriate dress. " The most important subhead is " sanitary" 
(12); this with its cognate subjects of neatness (23), cleanliness (9), 
trimness (2), and orderliness (3), as well as "protecting the dress" (3), 
altogether is mentioned by 62. "Attractiveness" is not neglected, 
however. It was doubtless in the minds of all who spoke of neatness 
and trimness, but was also specifically mentioned by 19, to whom should 
probably be added one who gave "freshness" as a desirable quality. 
"Economical" was given three times, the point apparently being the 
washableness of appropriate dress. Thirteen specify that the appear- 
ance of the class is better. That this is not purely a formal matter is 
shown by the statements that there is "better order in the laboratory — 
less confusion" and that the "psychological value of the uniform- is 
considerable, in making for orderliness and workmanlike ways." Per- 
haps the one who gives "discipline" means to make this point. "Dig- 
nity" because of the professional factor given by the uniform, is men- 
tioned by 6, while one uses the phrase "businesslike," one points out 
that there are no excuses for inappropriate dress possible and another 



66 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

calls attention to the fact that grading according to appearar-ce is more 
just where uniformity is required. One speaks of the good influence 
on the students' dress outside the cookery laboratory and another 
speaks of the good influence on the children (this of course in teaching) , 
One states as an advantage that the uniform strengthens the democratic 
spirit. 

Objections to the Uniform. It is impossible to resist the temptation to 
quote first the antithesis of the last statement under "Value" — the 
normal school that says: *'It is institutional, artificial and undemo- 
cratic!" But the largest number of objections come under lack of time 
for changing dress (23), lack of space for dressing and lockers (12), and 
expense to students (18), of whom 4 specify laundry expense. Eight 
speak of the uniform as "impractical" which probably refers to the 
points above. One speaks of the waste of energy in changing, one of 
the hardship of getting dresses made aHke, and one gives the curious 
reason that it is an "effort to see that they are kept in good condition." 

None of these objections (except the first) is to the principle of the 
uniform, and it is such objections that have most weight. To take the 
less important points first, one says it "is difficult to get a uniform 
suitable to all," one that it is "too much like a prison dress." (One 
would think that depended on the uniform!) Three prefer "individu- 
ality," one stating that it gives a better chance to teach simplicity and 
fitness, and one wishes the students to look as they would at home, and 
thinks a woman has an inalienable right to wear a becoming tie. 

The most serious objections, however, are those voiced by the first 
normal school head quoted, the college that objects that it "sets house- 
hold science apart" and the fuller statement made by Miss Jenny 
Snow, of the Chicago Normal College, as follows: "I think the uniform 
has had more to do with the misunderstanding of the real purpose of 
our work than any other one thing. It has led people to think that 
this is a training for maids. No uniform is required in the bacteriologi- 
cal laboratories, chemical and physiological laboratories. Why should 
it be in the food laboratories?" 

Wcarinj; Uniform in Professional Work. This is of course quite a 
different question from that of the wearing of uniform by students. 
Many of the schools that object to the latter, encourage the students 
to wear it in teaching Home Economics or doing institutional work. 
Forty-one schools and colleges definitely try to impress on students 



1916] COSTUME IN THE COOKERY LABORATORY 67 

the desirability of wearing a uniform in professional work, while 3 rec- 
ommend "plain white" for teachers, and 4 recommend "a wash dress, 
or a cotton dress. " Only 5 answer " no " to the question, one emphatic- 
ally adding " never. " Two say "not directly. " 

General Conclusions. The report on a questionnaire is no proper 
place for an argument, and the reporter resists the strong temptation 
to "say the last word." But one fact seems to stand out clearly as a 
result of the data collected — the need of some standardizing of the 
uniform if it is to be worn, especially of the universally required apron. 

This does not mean that we should have a single Home Economics 
uniform for the whole country. Even the training schools for nurses 
have not gone quite so far as that, and there would certainly be no 
advantage to our work in doing away with individual choice in color 
and even in style. But each school that has adopted a uniform, in whole 
or in part, has worked out details with care. A comparison of each 
point — for example, one piece dress or two piece? Type of collar and 
how fastened? Length of sleeve? Length of skirt from ground? 
Straps on apron? Pocket on dress or apron? — should result in the work- 
ing out of two or three standard t^pes for each article of the dress. 
The points to consider are (1) sanitary quality — protection and ease of 
keeping clean, (2) economic quahties — original cost and cost of cleaning, 
(3) time quality — quickness of dressing and undressing, (4) efficiency 
qualities — comfort and adaptabiUty to the work, (5) the aesthetic 
quality — attractiveness. Every article of dress can be considered from 
all five of these points of view and there is no question but that except 
for the last there would be general agreement on no more than two or 
three "best ways." Then one of the large commercial pattern com- 
panies could be asked to carry all the patterns agreed on, and the work 
of giving directions would be greatly lessened. It would also be a help 
to the housewife who wishes to choose suitable dress or apron, to have 
such patterns available. If two or three styles of aprons for kitchen 
work were approved by the American Home Economics Association, 
it would be an easy matter to get some manufacturer of aprons to put 
them on the market. When we have all this experience, why not put 
it at the disposal of the woman in the home? 



68 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

THE DEVELOPMENTOF HOME ECONOMICS IN SOCIAL WORK 

WINIFRED S. GIBBS 

Supervisor, Division of Home Economy, New York Association for Improving 
the Condition of the Poor 

Beginning in 1906 when lessons in simple diet and cooking were given 
to the women in their own homes, this work of Home Economics in the 
so-called Relief Organization has advanced steadily until at present 
it is a separate division and bears an intimate relation to the general 
scheme of the New York Association for Improving the Condition of the 
Poor. The aims of this work are to aid in preventing dependency, 
to assist in stamping out dependency by teaching the wise use of reUef, 
to aid in preventing illness, and to relieve illness, if possible by dietary 
measures. 

HELPING TO PREVENT DEPENDENCY 

The Division of Home Economy aims to help the ReHef Bureau to 
make definite plans for family rehabiUtation, and then to teach the 
famihes how to carry out these plans. In self-supporting families, 
where the income is nearly or quite adequate, it is usually a matter of 
instruction alone. At best, these famihes are so perilously near the 
danger Une, that, in order to accomplish much in the prevention of 
dependency, they must be taught to husband every resource. This 
usually means the teaching of system — its value and its apphcation. 
In cases where the resources of the family are equal to the sum estimated 
as adequate for their support, the housekeeper is questioned as to her 
knowledge, and then, if necessary, she is taught how to keep accounts. 
The woman's first expense account is the peg upon which to hang further 
instruction. 

The main items of the budget plan are: rent, food, fuel and light, 
clothing, insurance, carfare, and sundries. The rent is usually a matter 
of making the best of conditions, after a certain standard (two and 
one-half persons to a room) has been met. The food is estimated at 
twenty-seven cents per adult man per day; food needs of women and 
children are computed according to an accepted table of percentages, 
determined by age and sex. Data in regard to clothing needs is being 
gathered, but pending the time when these needs can be standardized, 
a rate of two dollars per individual per month is used. It will readily 
be seen that clothing needs can not be so dclinitely fixed as can food 



1916] HOME ECONOMICS IN SOCIAL WORK 69 

needs. The two dollar rate, however, provides for comfortable, but 
very simple clothing. Long experience in the field convinces that the 
general morals of the family can be materially strengthened by education 
in neatness and suitability of clothing. 

An attempt was made to get the families to confine their insurance 
expenditure to that of the bread winner, on the principle that it was 
better to spend the money for bread and milk than for children's insur- 
ance, thus putting off the evil day of the funeral. It was found, however, 
that the people cling so tenaciously to the certainty of a decent burial 
that no one had the heart to insist on their dropping the payments. 
Studies of needs for sundries are now being carried on, and a tentative 
rate of two dollars per month is allowed. Results are tending toward 
the final decision that four dollars is the "irreducible minimum." The 
great lack in these estimates is a provision for recreation and savings, 
although the latter item is all too seldom even a possibiUty. Further- 
more, it does not seem possible for relief plans to take account of money 
for recreation, although no worker fails to realize its importance. 

By way of illustrating the method of teaching where instruction alone 
is given, and where the aim is prevention of dependency, the following 
experience with a family designated as A is given. This consisted of a 
man, woman, girl of 4 years, and a baby of 2 years. 

MONTHLY BUDGET OF FAMILY A 

Income Estimated Expenditures 

$52.00 Rent S7.00 

Food 21.29 

Fuel and light 3.25 

Clothing 6.00 

Sundries 2 .00 

S52.00 S39.54 

Home Economy work was begun in March, 1914. In spite of adequate 
income, the woman had asked for milk at the milk station, because she 
did not receive enough money from the man to cover household expenses. 
After investigation it was found that each brought accusation against 
the other. The man, who was said to illtreat the woman, in turn said 
that the woman was such a bad housekeeper that it was impossible to 
give her an adequate home keeping allowance, and that he had no 
incentive to live properly. Lessons were begun, and the woman was 
taught that a clean home and well cooked food would do much to 



70 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

inspire her husband with a desire for better living. Progress was slow, 
but in August, 1914, great improvement on the part of the woman was 
noticed. The home was clean, the expense accounts were well kept, and 
the diet directions were followed. Thus far the man is not doing his 
part so well, but he has been given at least every chance. 

HELPING TO ELIMINATE DEPENDENCY 

Once the family has dropped below the "poverty line," the teaching 
follows a different plan, or rather plans, since a different problem pre- 
sents itself in every case. Three illustrations may be cited here. 

The following case illustrates instruction where income is insufficient 
and relief not advisable. In this family B, Home Economy work was 
begun in July, 1914. 

MONTHLY BUDGET OF FAMILY B 

Income Estimated Expenditures 

$47.66 Rent $11.00 

Food 27.05 

Fuel and light 3 . 25 

Clothing 6.00 

Insurance 3 . 25 

Sundries 2.00 

$47.66 $52.55 

The above budget is for an average month and shows what could 
have been done, except for the pressure of back debts. Because of these 
debts the income was insufficient and when the dietitian began the work 
the woman was so discouraged that she showed very Uttle interest. Les- 
sons were given in housekeeping, the selection of food, the diet needs 
in the family, and the preparation of food. This is a typical case of the 
necessity for teaching the wise use of a minimum dietary. In August, 
1914, the undernourished condition of all the family was such as to cause 
anxiety, but the Relief Department thought best not to take up the 
matter. Diet lessons continued, and, although the death of one child 
brought a new sornnv, when Home Economy work was closed in Sep- 
tember, 1914, general conditions were improved, and the woman had 
been made to feel that it was worth while trying to make the most of a 
very limited income. 

Instruction during temporary loss of employment is illustrated by the 
following experience. In the family C, under normal conditions, the 



1916] HOME LCONOMICS IN SOCIAL WORK 71 

income was sufficient, but the dietitian was asked to give lessons to the 
oldest girl while she was out of emplo^Tnent. These lessons included 
instruction in the selection and preparation of food, and in general house- 
keeping. The plan here was to teach the oldest daughter to become a 
good housekeeper, so that she might help her mother, a hard working 
janitress, and also better fit herself for a home of her own. Progress 
was satisfactory, although at the time of writing the work has not con- 
tinued over a very long space of time. 

The following experience illustrates a case of instruction in raising 
the family standard in treating intemperance. The family D, consisted 
of a man, a woman, three girls, aged 10, 8 and 5, and a boy of 5 years. 

MONTHLY BUDGET OF FAMILY D 

Income Estimated Expenditures 

$52.00 Rent S16.00 

Food 31.12 

Fuel and light 3.25 

Clothing 10.00 

Carfare 3 . 46 

Insurance 3 . 37 

Sundries 2 .00 

$52.00 $69.20 

When lessons were begun the woman took very little interest, but as 
the work progressed she was decidedly impressed with the importance 
of having proper food for her husband, and also a clean house. Both 
the man and woman were finally brought to the point of cooperating; 
the visitor's efforts with the man were successful, and at present writing 
the woman continues to do her best in keeping up her end. 

HELPING TO PREVENT ILLNESS 

Almost every case that comes to the Division might fall under this 
head, directly or indirectly, since proper feeding has much to do with 
the prevention of illness. 

Family dietaries are planned very carefully so that the maximum of 
nourishment may be obtained for the minimum of expenditure. These 
dietaries have been planned along scientific lines, but it has not been the 
practice of the Home Economy Division to make close laboratory studies 
of these diets. It is interesting to note however that the Teachers Col- 
lege Survey of these diets made in August, 1914, proves that the practice 
of the Association has been satisfactory from the dietary standpoint. 



72 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

This study was made in connection with the standardizing of grocery 
orders. Four typical orders were submitted, each representing the 
possibilities of Association families. It was found that these diets, after 
some minor changes, were such as to furnish the famiUes with food that 
satisfied the demands of physiological chemistry. 

To illustrate teaching where it is aimed to prevent illness by teach- 
ing proper diet, the following case is noted of an Italian family desig- 
nated E, consisting of man, woman, and seven children ranging in age 
from one to fourteen years. 

AVER.\GE MONTHLY BUDGET OF FAMILY E 

Income Estimated Expenditures 

S39.00 Rent $9.00 

Food 40 13 

Fuel and light 3 . 25 

Clothing 14.00 

Sundries 2 .00 

$39.00 $68.38 

The visitor requested the dietitian to revise the family dietary and the 
following interesting fact was noted. The deficit was $28.18 and the 
woman's expenditure for food before instruction was $26.78 when it 
should have been $40.13. A careful study of the dietary showed that 
the food was well selected, and a special mathematical study was made 
which showed that the dietary fully met the needs of the family in pro- 
teid, fat, ash, and caloric value. This seems to prove conclusively that 
the Association is justified in having different standards, so far as money 
is concerned, for the Italians. It does not mean that the Itahan diets 
are all satisfactory, but in this particular case revision was not necessary. 
This case shows well one part of the diet work in doing preventive teach- 
ing. The mother was taught just how her dietary met the needs of the 
family, and it was impressed upon her that it would not bo safe to de- 
crease the food in any particular. 

Another case to illustrate the value of diet in preventive work is that 
of a family designated F. 

When Home Economy work was begun, the woman was receiving 
a weekly allowance of S6.2.S, but it was found that she was saving 
money at the expense of her food and so her allowance was lowered. 
After adju.sting her allowance and the expenditures, the budget was as 
follows: 



1916] HOME ECONOMICS IN SOCL\L WORK 73 

MONTHLY BUDGET OF FAMILY F 

Income Family Expenditures Adequate Expenditures 

Woman sewing S4.33 Rent $15.00 Rent $15.00 

Allowance 20.58 Food 18.84 Food. 18.84 

(was $27 58) Fuel and light 1.16 Fuel and Ught 3.25 

Lodger 15.00 Clothing 6.16 Clothing 6.00 

Insurance 1 .43 Insurance 1 .43 

Sundries 3 . 72 Sundries 2 .00 



$39.91 $46.31 $46.52 

The woman was found to be an excellent manager, but it was explained 
to her that it was very dangerous to cut down to such an extent on the 
children's food, and the instruction was directed along the Une of gradu- 
ally showing the woman how to advance to a normal dietary, the plan 
being to return to the adequate allowance as soon as she showed a dis- 
position to profit by the instruction. 

TO RELIEVE ILLNESS WHEN POSSIBLE BY DIETARY MEASURES 

It has often been possible to relieve serious illness of young children 
and babies simply by proper attention to feedings. Another type of case 
where palhative measures are possible is in that of the return Sea Breeze 
Hospital cases. This form of instruction is illustrated by the following 
case. 

After returning from Sea Breeze Hospital, the girl who was convales- 
cent from tuberculosis of the bone had lost ground rapidly. Her diet 
before instruction consisted chiefly of fried eggs, no cereals, condensed 
milk, salt meat and bread. The mother was taught to buy bottle milk 
daily and was instructed to give the child beef juice, fresh vegetables, 
and cereals, with the result that the child was decidedly improved at 
the end of instruction. It is gratifying to note that in May, 1914, the 
girl had had a "good winter with no return of foot trouble. " 

DEVELOPMENT OF THE WORK 

The Home Economy work has developed along very broad lines. 
At present, the clothing item of the budget is being carefully studied 
by the sewing teacher as she gives her lessons. This means that very 
careful clothing budgets are being gathered, that the estimate of 
clothing needs is as carefully studied as that of the food needs and 
that much helpful data is being collected. The sewing teacher and 
dietitians work together in teaching practical division of income. 



74 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

The sewing teacher is publishing a pamphlet entitled Clothing the 
Family. Tliis pamphlet is to be uniform with Lessons in Proper 
Feeding, by the author of this article, and is a small handbook. 
Another important piece of work being done is work in experimental 
cookery. This means the careful revising of ordinary cook book 
recipes so that expenses could be cut down to the very smallest 
amount compatible with palatableness. This is most important in the 
construction of attractive and nourishing minimum diet. If the work 
is done by a judicious person there is a saving from 15 to 50 per 
cent in the cost of each recipe. The division has already gained as 
a result of this work a collection of recipes absolutely invaluable and 
wholly unique. 

As to the future, the possibilities for coordinating this Home 
Economy work with other forms of social work are very numerous, 
and it is hoped that in the near future many of these possibilities 
may be fulfilled. 



THE EXPOSITION PLAQUE 

At the meeting of the American Home Economics Association, held 
in connection with the National Education Association, at Oakland, 
California, a dinner was given by the California Association of Home 
Economics, at the California Exposition Building, to the guests of the 
American Home Economics Association. 

At that dinner a bronze plaque was presented by the Assistant Chair- 
man of Congresses of the Exposition, who remarked that this Associ- 
ation was one of nine hundred ninety-nine, held in San Francisco this 
year. The reply was made that we considered ourselves one in a 
thousand. 

The plaque will be kept among the archives of the Association. Its 
form and inscription arc shown in the frontispiece. 



1916] A NEW DEPARTURE IN THE TEACHING OF SEWING 75 

A NEW DEPARTURE IN THE TEACHING OF SEWING 

EDNA IRENE AVERY 
Slate College for Teachers, Albany, N. Y. ' 

The Home Economics Department of the State College for Teachers 
in Albany has inaugurated a new departure that is filled with interest 
and promise. It was found that under the general method of teaching 
elementary sewing the students were not sufficiently well grounded in 
the subject matter that they were to impart to the girls in their prac- 
tice teaching classes. The criticism was also made that sewing is not 
a subject that will develop the mental processes and therefore is not on 
the same educational basis as the academic subjects in the college 
curriculum. 

To overcome the former difficulty and to confute the latter criticism 
it was decided to approach Freshman Sewing in a difi'erent way. To 
fully appreciate this change one must remember that this institution 
has one problem only: that of training teachers. 

The entering class was divided into two sections, those who had had 
no sewing and those who were familiar to a greater or lesser extent with 
the use of the needle either through domestic art courses in high schools 
or long use in the home. The subject matter covered in both sections 
is the same but the method of approach entirely different. In the former 
section, emphasis is placed upon technique (motor habits of sewing) 
and in the latter, upon subject matter (knowledge of sewing). It is 
the work of this latter section that has proved to be absorbing to both 
students and instructor. 

An outline of the work is as follows: The ground covered during the 
year is divided into sLx unit groups. 

Group I. The worker, tools, simple equipment. 

Group II. Stitches, consisting of all the plain and a few simple 
embroidery stitches. 

Group III. Principles of sewing, including repairing. 

Group rV. Machines, their construction, use, care, repair, etc. 

Group V. Drafting and commercial patterns. 

Group VI. Construction of underwear. 

The number of lessons allowed each group varies. More time is 
given to Group VI than to the others and least to Groups I, IV, and V. 
In all groups except the last, actual sewing is of a minimum amount 



76 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

while the discussion and acquisition of knowledge concerning the topics 
is at the maximum. In other words, this group thijiks serving rather 
than does sewing and therein lies the value of this scheme. It will be 
seen that such a method naturally can only be adapted to those 
students who have had some experience in the technique of the art of 

sewing. 

A brief description of some of the interesting things done will show 
the working out of the plan and perhaps be suggestive. In all groups 
the students are given topics for discussion, criticism and comparison 
and are sent to all available libraries and other sources for facts and infor- 
mation concerning these topics. It is really research work that they are 
required to do and the desire with which they respond exceeds the 
expectation of the advocates of this plan. Some of the topics dis- 
cussed under Group I were: The worker (the domestic art student), 
her attitude toward her work, her method of working, economy of time, 
energy and nervous force, position of body conducive and nonconducive 
to health, ease and facility in working and the value of a standard in 
order to improve the quaHty of work. When the subject of tools was 
reached the class discussed their manufacture, specific uses of each tool, 
varieties and adaptabihties, cost, how and where to purchase and com- 
parison with the object of discovering the most suitable for different 
classes of work. This readily led to a consideration of proper equip- 
ment for elementary and high school sewing. 

In Group II the same method was employed with an occasional sew- 
ing test when in the judgment of the instructor it was deemed neces- 
sary. The stitches were discussed and criticised as to the various ways 
of beginning, joining, working and ending with the view of selecting those 
that seemed superior in workmanship, in facility in making and in 
speed. It may seem to one that there was a waste of time in this, but 
not so. The class recitation became so intense and animated that there 
is not a member of the section who does not possess accurate, scientific 
knowledge of good stitchery. Whenever sewing was done, it was given 
as a problem and the students were forced to work out their method of 
construction and application in the light of their previous class discus- 
sion. Hence, the sewing became a test of the student's ability to cor- 
rectly apply her knowledge of sewing subject matter. 

In Group IV, the study of machines, the students were required to 
learn the construction, physics and mechanism of a sewing machine. 



1916] A NEW DEPARTURE IN THE TEACHING OF SEWING 77 

One of the local machine agents kindly loaned twenty-five machines of 
different makes which, added to the regular college equipment, allowed 
a machine to each girl. The men's industrial department offered to 
assist in the explanation of mechanical principles. Instruction was given 
in the proper use, care and simple fixing which machines constantly 
need in order to run properly. After this, any student in the class 
is liable to be called upon to oil, take apart and adjust any machine in 
the laboratories which happens to be out of order or does not run 
smoothly. jVIany problems and exercises were given which required 
speed, accuracy in straight stitching and the use of the various attach- 
ments. 

By the time the student has reached Group VI she finds herself 
in independent command of the use of patterns, all principles of hand 
and machine sewing and is expected to construct undergarments with 
little help and assistance. The sewing laboratory will now be more 
like a shop and although no garments will be made for the trade, each 
student will sew for some member of the class other than herself. Here 
technique will be of prime importance as well as speed, accuracy, 
responsibility, independence, and ability to work satisfactorily for 
others. There wiU also be opportunity for suggestion and original 
design. 

It may be of interest to the reader to know the connection between 
the two sections. By keeping the unit groups parallel it is possible to 
shift students from one section to the other and this is done in the case 
of misfits. Those who lack the prerequisite for entering the advanced 
section must do one year's work in the lower section and take some of 
the unit groups the following year. The ones required will depend 
upon the ability and quality of work of the student while a member 
of the lower section. 

The results hoped for are mastery of knowledge covering elementary 
sewing, c:.pability, independence, speed, and accuracy, while the study 
and research work in the earlier groups provide sufficient mental activity 
on the part of the students to show that domestic art work does require 
the use of the mind in solving its problems, does develop force, char- 
acter and power in addition to serving its very practical and essential 
end — the clothing of the human race. 



78 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

THE NEED OF TRAINING TEACFIERS FOR EXTENSION 
EDUCATION WORKi 

ALICE LOOMIS 
Professor of Home Economics, University of Nebraska 

Civilization is characterized by the division of labor and the develop- 
ment of specialists. If we are to make progress in extension work, we 
must follow the same path of advance and train the speciaHst. The 
two objections commonly urged against this are that the homemaker 
has such a wide variety of problems that the one who is to help her 
must be able to deal with many phases of home life, and that there is 
not enough money to employ a separate specialist for each group of 
problems. 

Yet, a brief comparison of the home conditions of today and of previ- 
ous times shows that the present homemaker in her dependence upon 
industries outside the home has herself become something of a specialist. 
Her need is for very definite help along lines requiring technical training 
rather than for the enthusiasm and good recipes which in the past have 
been considered a large asset. The other objection may be met by de- 
veloping the extension work largely along the particular lines for which 
the workers are especially adapted. An illustration in point is the re- 
cent cmplo^Tnent by a college of a woman whose architectural and other 
training has especially fitted her for the task of getting in shape ma- 
terial that others may use in working toward better housing conditions. 

The extension worker must of necessity possess the three requisites so 
commonly demanded of her: first, the personaUty which will allay 
antagonism and arouse enthusiasm in the most difficult of situations; 
second, the keermess of mind which insures insight into the problems 
and a foresight that makes for effective work; and, thirdly, the natural 
adaptability which allows the extension worker to do everything from 
judging babies and crochet work to giving advice on subjects ranging 
from installation of water supplies to the embalming of bodies. 

Given these qualifications those individuals should be chosen for ex- 
tension training whose previous life as well as whose formal education, 
has fitted them for certain phases of the work. One of the successful 
leaders of boys' and girls' club work was largely prepared for her pres- 
ent success by the years she spent as county superintendent. This 

' Presented at the Kighth Annual Meeting of the American Home Kconomics .\ssocia- 
tion, Extension Education Section, Seattle, 1915. 



1916] TRAINING TEACHERS FOR EXTENSION EDUCATIONAL WORK 79 

woman knows thoroughly the rural conditions, the handling of boys' 
and girls' problems, the presenting of work to the ordinary rural school 
teacher, and thereby the means of cooperating with some of the various 
agencies which must be recognized in the successfiil management of 
boys' and girls' club work. WTien asked what preparation she would 
most have preferred for her work, she answered that while she would 
not give up one whit of her actual experience she would like to have had 
in addition to the regular college course, the special training in Home 
Economics and, equally important, a four years' course in agriculture. 
The best director of women's club study may be a woman whose Hfe 
has given her not only an acquaintance with the household problems, 
but a knowledge of the workings of women's clubs. An example could 
be given of such a woman who has been unusually successful in repre- 
senting the work of the university in her connection with over three 
hundred clubs, many of them rural and unfederated, but others strong 
federated clubs in close touch with the General Federation work. She 
is only one of a number of women with the housekeeper's point of view 
who also have had the opportunity to know how the training of 
speciaHsts can be made of value to people outside the college. These 
women need not be graduates of technical courses but they must be 
intelligent women who are cooperators and organizers of the first order, 
knowing, on one hand, the needs of the community, and, on the other 
hand, the means whereby these needs may be met by specialists 
within the colleges, medical schools, and other organizations. 

There is no doubt that an ideal situation exists in an institution 
whose graduates have had this other and larger experience. IlHnois 
is one of the few states in which the course in Home Economics has 
been established long enough to have graduates in their own homes 
who can be called upon for part time in the service of the Extension 
Division. It is this state also which is fortunate in having among 
its graduates women available for extension service who previously 
have been well trained in the business world or who have been trained 
as nurses and social workers. 

Within our college courses there are a number of women whose 
previous training and experience suggest their possible value in the 
extension field. For these people there should be a definite course in 
extension methods. This should be preceded by the courses in psy- 
cholog}^, child study, history of education, and other courses consid- 
ered prerequisite to such special method courses. 



80 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

However well trained a worker may be in general, there is always 
the necessity for local color. College standards are fairly definite 
and no one now believes that there is a need for the training of teachers 
of college grade in the locality where they are to teach. In fact, the 
dangers of inbreeding are clearly recognized. Exactly the reverse is 
the case in extension work. The worker should not use six months 
or a year in becoming acquainted with the individual problems of her 
locality. This local color may be obtained by choosing a person who 
has grown up in the community or has in some other way gained a 
vital contact with its needs. It may also be gained by a short appren- 
ticeship. In one case recently a successful worker from another section 
of the country was to begin work in a place necessitating entirely differ- 
ent methods. Throughout the summer she attended meetings conducted 
by experienced workers. Without doubt this method is of great value 
in introducing extension workers to their fields. 

The most serious question in the training of extension workers 
seems to be the problem of the continuation of training for those 
already in the field. Their needs are two: first, the technical training 
which will enable them to keep abreast of the more recent advances 
in their work and to substitute for the ''broad brush work," as Miss 
Ravenhill calls it, the careful and accurate thinking which a technical 
course demands; and, second, the need for the broad educational work 
that shall keep them in touch with what is being done in extension 
work in other states, thereby preventing needless repetition of errors 
and experimentation, and that shall also help them to see their ex- 
tension work as a part of the general educational movement. 

It is to be hoped that in the near future courses will be ofTcred for 
extension workers which will meet these two great needs. A summer 
school with this purpose would be of value. The technical work 
might allow a choice between several lines, some at least of which 
should be of graduate grade, for workers prepared for such work. 
There should be no difiiculty in offering graduate courses in education 
of value to extension workers since the doctor's degree is now granted 
in education. Besides these technical and collegiate educational 
courses there might be a course, possibly non-credit, but at least of 
no more than undergraduate grade, in extension methods. Since the 
work has developed so quickly and so dilTcrently in various sections 
of the country, this course might be made of the greatest scrv'icc if it 
were ofTercd in small units by various workers who have accom- 
plished noteworthy results in special lines. With the inauguration 



1916] ELLEN H. RICHARDS RESEARCH FUND 81 

of such a summer course, with the careful choice of college students 
who are especially adapted for this tjpe of work, with the growing 
number of Home Economics graduates who have gone out into their 
own homes and are willing to give a part of their time to the service, 
and with an organization of the extension service that will allow the 
emplo)Tnent of good cooperators whose life experience has trained 
them for certain fields — with development in all these lines, the 
problem of the training of extension workers should be at least par- 
tially solved. 



THE ELLEN H. RICHARDS RESEARCH FUND 

In January 1913 there was presented to the Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology a fund of $15,000 in memory of Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, 
to be known by her name, and to be used for research work in Sanitary 
Chemistry, the subject which she successfully and inspiringly taught 
for so many years at the Institute. For the past two years this work 
has been under the general direction of Dr. John F. Norton, Assistant 
Professor of Chemistry of Sanitation. The February number of the 
Journal of Infectious Diseases contains an article by Professor Norton 
and the holder of the Ellen H. Richards Research Assistantship, Mr. 
P. H. Hsu, giving the results of the work done in 1914-1915. The 
problem involves the appUcation of physico-chemical methods to the 
study of disinfection. Formic acid is used as the disinfecting agent 
because its properties and constants are either well known or can be 
easily determined. B. typhosus is the organism studied. 

The first part of the article deals with experiments which show that 
the hydrogen ion is the real disinfecting agent, while the formate ion and 
the undissociated molecule have no direct action, but the presence of 
both influences the action of the hydrogen ion, the former having an 
accelerating and the latter a retarding influence. The apparent dis- 
infecting power of formic acid solutions is due to the combined action 
of these three substances. 

The second part deals with the effect of neutral salts. These are 
shown to act as accelerating agents on the disinfecting power of the 
hydrogen ions obtained from the acid. The article is preliminary to 
one to follow, which will deal with the mechanism of disinfection. 



82 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



CALORIES IN THE EDIBLE PORTION OF A NUMBER 

OF FOODS 

In calculating the food values of meals, it would often be a con- 
venience to have a table giving calories per ounce instead of the more 
usual calories per pound. The following may therefore prove of 
interest. The values given are for the edible portion of uncooked 
foods and foods ready to eat without further preparation. 



ENERGY VALUE OF SOME COMMON FOODS 



Beans, dried: 



Beets 

Bread 



calories 
per ounce 

Apple butter 50 . 8 

Apples, dried 84. 4 

Apples, fresh 18.1 

.•\pricots, dried 80 . 6 

Apricots, fresh 16.9 

Bananas 28 . 8 

Barley 103.1 

Beans, canned: kidney v30 . 

Lima 30.0 

navy 37.5 

kidney 100.5 

Lima 101 .5 

navy 100.3 

13.4 

graham 75.6 

rye 73.8 

white 75.9 

whole wheat 71.2 

Butter 225.3 

Butterine 220.3 

Cake, average 104 7 

ginger bread 104. 7 

Cabbage 9.1 

Canteloupe 116 

Carrots 13.1 

Celery 5.3 

Cheese: American: 

cream 121 .9 

pale 128.4 

red 135.3 

Italian: 

common yellow 115.1 

Parmesan, little fat y4 . 1 

Swiss 125 6 

Com, canned .... 2S l 

Com flakes 10=; 



calories 
per ourue 

Com meal (granular) 103 4 

Corn on cob 29 . 4 

Cornstarch 104 . 7 

Cracker?, graham 122 . 2 

Crackers, white (soda) 120.3 

Cranberries 13.4 

Cream 56.9 

Dates, dried 100.9 

Eggs 45.0 

Farina (wheat) 105 . 3 

Figs, dried 92 . 2 

Flour 104.0 

Leeks 9.4 

Lentils, dried 101 .3 

Lettuce 4.7 

Macaroni 104 . 

Meat: beef, fresh, (side, mediimi 

fat) 79.0 

beef, dried 52 . 5 

beef soup (homemade) 7.5 

chicken (broilers) 31.6 

chicken (fowl) 65 . 3 

codfish, shredded (salt 

boneless) 30 . 6 

steak (fresh) 23.1 

duck 80.6 

goose 114.4 

lamb (side, without tallow) . 81 .3 

mackerel, fresh 40.3 

salt 84.0 

mutton (side, without 

tallow) 97.5 

pork, fresh (loins, medium 

fat) y8.8 

salt (bellies) 200 

rabbit 28.6 



1916] 



SANITARY DISHWASHING 



83 



calories 
per tunce 

Meat : salmon, canned 57 . 2 

fresh 57.4 

turkey 85 . 

veal (side) 44 . 7 

Milk 20.3 

Milk, buttermilk 10.3 

Molasses 80 . 6 

Noodles 104 . 

Onions 14.1 

Oranges 15.0 

Parsnips 18 . 7 

Peaches, fresh 11.9 

diied 80.5 

Pears, fresh 18.4 

dried 102.2 

Peas, canned 15.9 

dried 103.4 

Pickles, cucumber 4.4 



caloriei 
per outlet 

Pickles, mixed 6.9 

Potatoes, Irish 24 . 1 

sweet 35.6 

Prunes, dried 8.75 

Raisins, dried 100.3 

Rice 101.9 

Rolled oats 115.6 

Shredded wheat biscuits 106. 3 

Sauerkraut 7.8 

Spaghetti 103.8 

Spinach 6.9 

Sugar 116.3 

Sirup (com) 70.0 

Tapioca 103 . 1 

Tomatoes, canned 6.6 

fresh 6.6 

Wheat breakfast food 108 . 8 



SANITARY DISHWASHING 



BERTHA STEVENSON 
Laboratory Kitchen, Boston 

The usual method of washing glasses, cups and silver in the best 
restaurants is the hand method, which is about the same as that in use 
in private houses. But many restaurants, including those of a firm 
very well known in a number of our large cities, merely rinse the glasses 
and many soda fountains have a sort of squirter which dashes cold water 
into the glasses. In the Laboratory Kitchen, we found that we could 
not use very hot water by the hand method and therefore adopted the 
use of dishwashing machines for glasses, cups and silver. These ma- 
chines are merely sets of iron tubs, fitted with steam pipes as well as water 
pipes. There is a tackle over head, and the glasses, cups and silver are 
plunged into the tubs in baskets. Live steam is injected into the rins- 
ing tub, and when the glasses come out they are so hot that they cannot 
be touched for a few minutes. 

The manufacturers of these iron sinks did not believe that we could 



84 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

use them successfully for either glasses or silver; they said it had never 
been done before. They claimed that the breakage would be prohibitive 
in the case of glasses, and that the wear and tear on the silver would be 
too great. Such is not the case, however, in our experience. We find 
the method to be satisfactory and we believe it to be the cleanest method 
yet found. 

As for the usual form of sterilizers, such as are used by the Walker 
Gordon Company for milk bottles, their size stands in the way of their 
general adoption in the crowded parts of cities. Soda fountains would 
have to move out when the sterilizers moved in. Then, too, the time 
required for each separate sterilization, and the labor required in han- 
dling the glasses and other pieces, make the sterilizer a difficult problem; 
but a sterilizer could be especially designed for this work with reference 
to economy of space and labor. It would have to be worked out to its 
last detail and lend itself to the direct stream of work, or it would merely 
look impressive and yet fall entirely short of its purpose. It would be 
a very easy thing for any soda fount or restaurL-xit to install a sterilizer 
for show, but to live up to a real sterilizer of sufficient capacity to sterilize 
each and every piece of silver and glass, is quite another matter. 

With regard to the importance of equipment in general, we reckon 
that the model equipment of every sort counts less than half in securing 
cleanliness. Clean premises, clean people, and clean methods count 
more than lialf. Also, it is evident that the purpose of any equipment, 
such as a sterihzer, could be defeated if the employees were not educated 
in clean methods. 

There are three things which any restaurant can undertake and which 
would change the whole face of things as to cleanliness: 

1. To make the premises clean by setting out all fixtures from the 
walls and removing dirt catchers, as far as possible, and by using plenty 
of soap and water. 

2. To make the employees clean by medical inspection and supervision. 

3. To make the methods of all employees clean by intelligent train- 
ing and supervision. 

Clean methods should be first, then new and better equipment. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

LIVING EXPENSES OF WOMEN STUDENTS AT THE 
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 

CORA E. GRAY 

Many parents who are planning to send a daughter to college are interested to know 
something of her necessary expenses. There have been lately a number of studies made 
of the actual accounts of students, and some of them we shall publish as they are avail- 
able. The following paper gives a summarj' of such expenses in a state university in the 
middle West. — The Editor. 

During the second semester of last year the students in the House- 
hold Management class at the University of Illinois were required to 
keep their accounts for the three months ending May 15, 1915. The 
class was composed of juniors and seniors in the Household Science 
Department who lived in boarding houses, sorority houses, in the 
Young Women's Christian Association house, or, in one or two cases, 
in light housekeeping i-ooms. The University is located in a community 
of about twelve thousand, composed of the two towns of Champaign 
and Urbana. 

The table below summarizes the expenses of fifty-three students 
for three months. Since the accounts were started after the beginning 
of the semester, they do not include tuition nor, in most cases, text- 
books. The classification used was decided upon by class vote, and 
needs little explanation. "University activities" includes club dues, 
lectures, and any other expenses directly connected with academic 
interests. "University expenses" covers books bought during the 
semester, paper and other supplies, and railroad fare home over the 
Easter vacation, since the expense of reaching the institution is prop- 
erly a part of the cost of a college education. In order to give as fair 
an idea as possible several figures have been given under each classi- 
fication: the average, the minimum expenditure reported, and the maxi- 
mum. It is of interest, however, to know whether the majority spent 
about the average amount, or whether the expenditures were fairly 

85 



86 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



evenly distributed between the maximum and minimum. The amounts 
in each class were arranged in order, beginning with the lowest and 
increasing toward the highest. In this series the fourteenth figure 
represents the largest amount spent by one-fourth the class. In a 
similar way, the highest expenditures for one-half and for three-fourths 
of the class were secured. From these figures it appears that, while 
there were great variations between the lowest and the highest amount, 
the expenditures of a large number of students were close to the average. 



Summary of Expenses of Junior and Senior Women at the University of Illinois 
from February 15 to May 15, 1915 



Average 

Maximum 

Minimum 

For items indi- 
cated \ of the 
students spent 
less than 

5 of the students 
spent less than. 

\ of the students 
spent less than. 



S46.60 
116.70 

4.53 



29.30 
42.15 
62.98 



LAUN- 
DRY AND 
CLEAN- 
ING 



$7.45 

25.00 

.94 



4.20 

6.00 

11.00 



S59.92 
95.00 
25.00 



50.95 
58.50 
65.00 



S28.69 

44.00 

9.00 



24.00 
30.00 
32.00 



UNIVER- 
SITY 

ACTr\T 
TIES 



S8.64 

26.60 

.50 



3.50 

7.10 

13.42 



UNmiR- 

SITY EX- 
PENSES 



$18.92 

42.10 

.70 



10.10 

15.45 
23.13 



RECRE- 
ATION 



s$7.25 

25.00 

75 



3.09 
5.25 
9.96 



MISCEL- 
LANEOrS 



S15.12 
91.50 

4.55 



8.30 
11.95 
19.51 



$181.77 

426.00 

92.15 



150.00 
176.84 
209.43 



The column showing the cost of clothing is probably the least valu- 
able because of the short time during which the accounts were kept. 
Clothing expenditures are not distributed evenly over the year, nor 
even over several years. Consequently, while the figures are interesting 
as a record of what fifty-three students actually spent on clothes during 
these three months, they cannot be rehed upon to show what clothing 
might be expected to cost during that period. In this connection it is 
interesting to note that a questionnaire sent out by the Dean of Women 
indicates $173 as the average yearly cost of clothing. The cost of laun- 
dry was lowered by the fact that many students sent their clothes home 
to be washed, and counted only the parcel post rate as the cost of 
laundry. A few did their own washing. One of them reported an 
expenditure of $0.94 as the cost of soap, starch, bluing and the rent of 
an electric iron. The amount spent for board presents wide variations, 
especially since so large a number paid about $60. The minimum cost 



1916] HONEY AND ITS USES IN THE HOME 87 

of board, $25 was that of a student who paid part of her bill in work, 
and who consequently did not represent the full food cost in her report. 
An expenditure of $26.60, however, is reported by another student who, 
with several others, did light housekeeping, and who it might be added 
was a senior and an honor student. Rent, like food, presents a fairly 
uniform cost to a large number of students. The highest and lowest 
expenditures for rent belong to the same students as those for food. 
The expenditures for university interests, recreation, and miscellaneous 
items, as well as that for clothing, show the influence of the amount of 
money the student has to spend. The lowest total expenditure, $92.15, 
was due to the fact that the student acted as commissary in her sorority 
and did not pay board, although a total expenditure of $101 was reported 
by two girls who paid in money for everything. 

Of all the expenditures, those for board, rent, and laundry seem most 
likely to furnish a basis upon which to estimate a year's expenses. The 
others are too much influenced by the short period to be of any great 
value. For a large number of students, board may be expected to cost 
$20 a month, or $4.50 a week; rent $10 a month, usually with a room- 
mate; laundry $0.50 a week, but only on condition that the student 
does a part of it herself or sends it home. If any conclusion can be drawn 
from the total expenditures, the most usual amount, exclusive of tuition, 
for a junior or senior woman at the University of Illinois is $60 a month, 
or a little over $500 a year. 



HONEY AND ITS USES IN THE HOME 

The U. S. Department of Agriculture has recently published a 
bulletin^ on honey and its uses, and some of the things it tells about 
are here brought to the housekeeper's attention. 

In this country honey has hitherto not been in as common use as in 
Europe, especially in cookery. It is, however, a comparatively simple 
matter to substitute it in many recipes for common sugar or for mo- 
lasses, and the resulting flavor is often both novel and agreeable. 

' Honey and its Uses in the Home. By Caroline L. Hunt and Helen \V. Atwater, 
U. S. Dept. Agr., Farmers' Bill. 653. The Department of Agriculture will send this to 
anyone free upon request. 



88 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

Honey is marketed in two forms, known respectively a': comb honey 
and extracted honey. In the past there has been some prejudice against 
extracted honey — or honey removed from the comb — because it was 
believed that this was frequently adulterated. However prevalent 
this practice may have been in the past, recent legislation and the 
efforts of honey producers themselves have made it dangerous and 
unprofitable. There is now, it is believed, Httle adulterated extracted 
honey on the market. Comb honey is practically certain to be the 
pure product of the hive, because it can only be adulterated by proc- 
esses which cost more than they save. When sold at retail there is 
now comparatively little difference in the cost of comb and extracted 
honey, but the latter can be purchased at wholesale very much more 
cheaply. The reason for this is that the producer of comb honey makes 
a product which is practically ready to be delivered to the consumer. 
Moreover, it costs the bee-keeper less to produce extracted honey while 
the wholesaler who purchases extracted honey must carr}^ through 
several processes before he can sell it at retail. If the housewife is will- 
ing to do these herself, she can effect a considerable saving. 

The fact that honey consists principally of sugar and water and 
is shghtly acid suggests that it is a suitable substitute for molasses 
in cookery. As a matter of fact, it can be used in the place of mo- 
lasses in all forms of breads, muffins, and cakes, and makes a more 
delicately flavored product. It contains less acid than molasses, how- 
ever, and so requires less soda when it is substituted for molasses 
in recipes which do not include sour milk or other acid, and the cook 
must be careful about the amount of soda used. Many trials were 
made with different kinds of honey in the nutrition laboratory of the 
U. S. Department of Agriculture which showed that the allowance of 
soda to a cupful of honey very generally ranges between one-fourth 
and one-half of a le\'el teaspoonful. Unless the cook is thoroughly 
familiar with her honey, she would do well to mix and bake a small 
sample of dough Ijcfore she decides on the amount of soda to use. 

One of the great advantages in the use of honey is that cakes made 
with it will keep much longer than those made with sugar. A honey 
cake made with butter, for instance, will keep its quality until the 
butter grows rancid, and one made without butter will keep fresh for 
months. For this reason honey is especially useful in recipes that call 
for no butter. Icing made with honey has the same advantage, and 
some icing made in the experimental laboratory of the Department of 



1916] 



HONEY AND ITS USES IN THE HOME 



89 



Agriculture was found at the end of 10 months to be as soft and in as 
good condition as when it was first made. A little experience will en- 
able any competent cook to substitute honey successfully for sugar in 
bread, cake, preserved fruits, sauces, and candies. It is safe to estimate 
that a cupful of honey will sweeten a dish about as much as a cupful of 
sugar, but since honey contains water in addition, there is need for less 
milk or other liquids. For practical purposes it is accurate enough to 
consider that for each cupful of honey a quarter of a cupful of liquid 
is added to the recipe. If these facts are kept in mind special honey 
recipes are unnecessary; yet it is convenient to have some that have 
been tested and adapted to household use. 
The following are selected from a number of such recipes: 

HONEY AND NUT BRAN MUFFINS 



cup honey 

cup flour 

From i to 2 teaspoon soda 

teaspoon salt 



2 cups bran 

1 tablespoon melted butter 
1 i cups milk 
J cup finely chopped English walnuts 



Sift together the flour, soda, and salt, and mix them with the bran. 
Add the other ingredients and bake for 25 or 30 minutes in a hot oven 
in gem tins. This will make about 20 muffins. 



SOFT HONEY CAKE 



i cup butter 
1 cup honey 
1 egg 

J cup sour milk 



1 teaspoon soda 
J teaspoon cinnamon 
J teaspoon ginger 

4 cups flour 



Rub the butter and honey together; add the egg well beaten, the milk 
and the flour sifted with soda and spices. Bake in a shallow pan, 

NUT HONEY CAKE 



2 cups brown sugar 

2 cups honey 
6 egg yolks 

3 cups flour 
Speck of salt 

1 J teaspoons soda 
3 teaspoons ground cinnamon 
i teaspoon ground cloves 



J teaspoon ground nutmeg 
5 teaspoon allspice 
1 cup chopped raisins 
J ounce citron cut in small pieces 
§ ounce candied orange peel cut in small 

pieces 
] pound almonds coarsely chopped 
Whites of 3 eggs 



90 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

Mix the sugar, honey, and the yolks of the eggs, and beat thoroughly. 
Sift together the flour, salt, spices, and soda. Combine all ingredients 
but the whites of the eggs. Beat the whites of the eggs till they are 
stiff and add them last. Pour the dough to the depth of about half an 
iiicli into well-buttered tins, and bake in a slow oven for one-half hour. 

HARD HONEY CAKE 

f cup honey h teaspoon cloves 

i cup sugar Speck white pepper 

2^ cups flour Speck salt 

1 egg i teaspoon soda 

^ teaspoon ginger 1 tablespoon water 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 2 ounces blanched almonds cut into small 

"2 teaspoon ground cardamom seed pieces or chopped 

Sift together the flour and spices, dissolve the soda in the water, beat 
the egg and combine all the ingredients. Beat or knead the mixture 
thoroughly. Cook a small sample. If it does not rise sufficiently, add 
a little more soda and honey; if it falls, add a little more flour. Roll 
out the dough to the thickness of about three-fourths of an inch and 
bake in a hot oven. When the cake is done glaze it with a thick sirup 
of sugar and water and allow it to dry in a slow oven or in some other 
warm place. While it is still warm, cut it into long strips, or it may be 
left in one large cake, to be cut into thin slices when served. This cake 
will become very hard on cooling and will not be soft enough to eat for 
several weeks, but will keep in good condition for an indefinite length 
of time. 

HONEY CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

I quart cream J cup delicately flavored honey 

6 lady fingers 

Chill the honey by placing the dish containing it in a pan of ice 
water. Whip the cream and add it to the honey, mixing the two well. 
Line a dish with lady fingers and fill it with the honey and cream. 
Serve very cold. 

CURRANTS 

Bar-le-Duc currants, an article of commerce that sells for a rela- 
tively high price, in part no doubt becau.sc of the large amount of 
labor involved in preparing them, are often made with honey. 



1916] CANDIED CRANBERRIES 91 

CANDIED CRANBERRIES 

Candied cranberries make a delicious and inexpensive confection, 
much resembling candied cherries but having a distinct flavor of their 
own. This is a suggestion to housewives from the Home Economics 
experts of the U. S. Department of Agriculture, who have been devel- 
oping new uses for the cranberry. They have developed a method 
which if followed closely gives a bright, firm, plump, semitransparent 
candied fruit which can be eaten as a sweetmeat or used to give a touch 
of color to frosted cakes, whipped cream, or custards, or which can be 
used Hke citron in cakes or puddings or chopped up and added to " tutti- 
frutti" ice creams. 

The secret of candying cranberries lies in handling the fruit so that 
it will become saturated with sugar. This calls for slow cooking on the 
instalment plan and the use of a dish large enough to permit all the 
berries to float at the top of the sirup during cooking. The skins are so 
tough that they must be pierced before cooking to let the sirup into the 
pulp or interior. To do this, three httle slits, each one-eighth inch long, 
should be made in each berry with the point of a penknife. Use selected 
large, firm cranberries. The directions for cooking are as follows: 

For 1^ cups of berries, make a thin sirup by boiling together until 
clear 2 cups of sugar and 2| cups of water. When the sirup is cool, 
add the berries and bring very slowly to the boiling point. If the berries 
are heated too quickly, the skins will burst before the sirup soaks into 
the pulp. As soon as the sirup boils, take the dish off the stove and let 
it stand over night. Next day, drain the sirup from the berries and boil 
it until it is reduced to about half its original volume. Put the berries 
into this medium-thick sirup and heat slowly; boil gently for 3 or 4 
minutes, and then allow to stand for 2 hours or more. Then boil gently 
a third time for 5 minutes. A smaller dish probably will be needed for 
the third and last boiling. When thoroughly cold, or better still, on the 
following day, drain off the sirup and spread the berries out on a lightly 
buttered plate or a sheet of clean, waxed or lightly buttered paper until 
the surface of the berries dries. 

The berries, if directions have been followed, will candy separately, 
and not into a sticky mass. 

To make a delicious ice cream, add ^ to f of a cup of chopped berries 
to each quart of the cream mixture. They also can be combined with 
bits of candied orange or lemon peel, or other glace fruits to make 



92 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

"tutti-frutti" ice cream. The sirup left over after the berries are cand- 
ied has a pleasant sweet-acid flavor and fine color and is excellent in 
pudding sauce or even, when diluted with water, for use on pancakes, 
and waffles. 



GOOD HEALTH COMMERCIALLY CONSIDERED 

The final report of the Commission on Industrial Relations, just issued, 
as reported in the Journal of the American Medical Association, states 
that each of the thirty-odd milUon wage earners in the United States 
loses an average of nine days a year through sickness, at an average cost 
of two dollars a day. The wage loss from this source is over five hundred 
million, while the added cost of medical care of at least $180,000,000 
increases the total sick bill of the wage earners of the United States to 
$680,000,000 a year. From 30 to 40 per cent of cases requiring charit- 
able relief are due to sickness, while sickness among wage earners is 
primarily the result of poverty, causing insufficient diet, bad housing, 
inadequate clothing and unfavorable surroundings in the home. Ac- 
cording to the commission, the surroundings and place of work and the 
personal habits of the worker are important but secondary factors. 
This means that while there should be no diminution in our efforts to 
secure better conditions in the factory, the office and the workshop, the 
real solution of the pubHc health problem hes in the improvement of the 
home. 



"BABY WEEK" 

The Children's Bureau of the U. S. Department of Labor wishes 
everyone to remember that 1^16 is Baby Year. The facts about 
American babies, the needs of American babies, and America's responsi- 
bility to her babies will this year be known as never before, because 
the first week in March will be Baby Week throughout the country. 



1916] BABY WEEK 93 

The Children's Bureau points out that more than four hundred com- 
munities representing every State in the Union are already laying their 
plans for Baby Week, in order that during those seven days the needs 
of the babies may be so presented that all the parents in those com- 
munities will learn a little better how to care for their babies, and all 
the citizens will realize that they have a special obligation to safeguard 
the conditions surrounding babies. It is confidently believed by those 
who are interested in this nation-wide Baby Week that the remainder of 
the year will be marked by a strengthening of all community activities 
for saving babies' lives and giving them a better chance to grow to a 
healthy maturity. 

The Baby Week idea originated in Chicago not quite two years ago; 
then New York had a Baby W^eek, and Pittsburgh, and other cities. 
Such practical benefit has in each case resulted that the General Feder- 
ation of Women's Clubs has undertaken to promote this nation-wide 
observance. State health officials and national organizations interested 
in public health and child welfare have taken up the plan and in various 
ways are giving it not only their sanction but their active cooperation. 
The extension divisions of the state universities have promised special 
assistance in interesting rural communities and helping them to observe 
Baby Week. 

The Federal Children's Bureau believes that Baby Week will give 
more parents a chance to learn the accepted principles of infant care, 
and will awaken every American to his responsibility for the deaths of 
the three hundred thousand babies who, according to the census esti- 
mates, die every year before they are twelve months old. Therefore 
the Children's Bureau has prepared a special bulletin^ of practical sug- 
gestions for Baby Week campaigns, adapted to the varying needs of 
communities of different types. Copies of this bulletin may be had 
free of charge from the Children's Bureau at Washington. 

'Baby-Week Campaigns — Suggestions for committees of various size. (1915) Dept. of 
Labor, Children's Bureau, Miscellaneous Series 5, Bur. Pub. l.S. 



EDITORIALS 

The Smoot Bill for Research in Home Economics (Senate Bill 
280 of the Congress now in session). Those who are famiUar with 
the Smith-Lever Act will remember that while Home Economics is men- 
tioned as one of the subjects that is to receive attention from its funds 
there is no definite division of money, and no specification in regard to 
the amount that must be spent in work for the home as distinct from 
that devoted to agriculture. It is probable that in some states it 
will be difiicult for Home Economics to obtain a fair share of the 
appropriations. 

It is therefore with special interest that those in this movement look 
toward a bill dealing with appropriations for Experiment Stations to be 
devoted exclusively to experiments in Home Economics. 

This bill was introduced by Senator Smoot of Utah, April 7, 1913. It 
was referred to the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and 
was still pending before that Committee at the dissolution of Congress. 
It is to be introduced again by Senator Smoot at the present session. 

The bill proposes to supplement the Federal appropriations for ex- 
periment stations (Hatch and Adams Acts) by granting to each state 
$10,000 per annum "to be appHed only to paying the necessary expenses 
of conducting original or confirmatory researches or experiments bear- 
ing directly on Home Economics, including both domestic science and 
domestic art, and printing and disseminating the results of said re- 
searches or experiments, having due regard to the varying conditions 
and needs of the respective states and territories." 

Under the proposed bill bulletins or reports of progress on the results 
of the work must be issued at least once in six months; these to be sent 
to newspapers and individuals under the franking privilege. 

The remaining administrative details of the bill as to handling of funds, 
accounting, etc., correspond closely to those now prescribed under the 
Hatch and Adams Acts. 

Effort should be made not only by organizations but by teachers of 
Home Economics, by housekeepers, by institution managers, and by 
social workers who are dealing directly with home problems, to bring to 
bear all legitimate influence for the passage of the bill. 
94 



1916] EDITORIALS 95 

Marketing by Telephone. Prof. T. N. Carver of Harvard in his 
review of "Lower Living Costs in Cities" by Clyde Lyndon King, in 
the July number of the Municipal Review, calls attention to "the enor- 
mous use which is made of the telephone in marketing." He says: 

Any comparison between American and European cities which fails to take 
into account the fact that two-thirds of all the telephones in the world are 
in the United States and three-fourths of all of them in the United States 
and Canada is an incomplete comparison. It is easy to point out that much 
could be saved in the cost of food through the use of central municipal mar- 
kets, but until the American housewives give up the telephone habit they 
are not going in large numbers to the central municipal market or any kind 
of a market that does not offer prompt or immediate delivery. 

The author states "The American city still thinks corner-grocery-wise of 
its food supply" but it is not conclusively shown that there is any cheaper 
method of giving the American housewife the kind of service she demands 
than the corner grocery method. In fact there is much to be said in favor of 
the proposition that the cheapest method of rendering good service is to have 
a large number of small depots widely distributed to which food supplies may 
be sent in large lots, say by the truck-load, and from which they can be 
promptly distributed to the households in small or retail packages. It looks 
as though the problem of economic distribution of food products wouUl have 
to be solved with the telephone as a factor rather than without it. If this 
be true, the corner grocery may serve as the depot from which the house- 
wife may secure at a minimum cost prompt delivery of food in small packages. 
Instead therefore of relegating the corner grocery to a past century, a fuller 
knowledge of the situation may convince us that the centralized retail mar- 
ket belongs to a backward civilization antedating the wide use of the tele- 
phone, a state of affairs under which the housewife went to market with her 
basket and carried her purchases home. This may have been a means of sav- 
ing money, but it was very wasteful of human energy. With the advance 
in civilization the tendency is more and more to save human energy even 
though we spend a little more in doing so. The energy which is saved may 
earn more than enough to pay for the extra money cost. 

We have quoted in full because it is seldom that this side of the mat- 
ter is so fully presented. We are told over and over again that one of 
the reasons for the high cost of living is "marketing by telephone." 
Often no distinction is made between the classes of goods that may be 
successfully bought in this way, and those that are difficult to obtain 
satisfactorily. Sugar, flour, canned goods, package goods, when one 
knows the brand, and many other standard articles may be bought as 



96 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

well in this way as in any other. Meat, fresh fruits and vegetables 
are usually purchased more satisfactorily by personal inspection. It is 
easier, too, by going to market to take advantage of variations in market 
prices. Yet even here distinction must be made. The woman who 
deals with one clerk who will keep her informed of such variations, who 
knows the quality of food that she wishes and who is interested to 
serve her satisfactorily, may perhaps use the telephone without dis- 
advantage. 

One woman said that it cost her more to go to market herself for she 
constantly saw tempting materials that she wanted to buy though to 
her purse they represented luxuries. She carefully made out each week 
a list of her needs and ordered them by card or by telephone and con- 
fined her purchases to articles that she could afTord. 

However this may be, it seems foolish to make sweeping statements 
that for the very lack of differentiation carry no weight. Marketing 
by telephone is here and it has undoubtedly come to stay. Let us try 
to regulate it, not condemn it. 



ANNOUNCEMENT 

The American Home Economics Association will hold a meeting at 
Detroit, Michigan, on Friday, February 25, in connection with the 
meeting of the Department of Superintendence of the National Edu- 
cation Association. 

In the morning there will be a joint session of Home Economics and 
Agriculture with addresses related to high and secondary school work. 
The afternoon session will include subjects of interest to college teach- 
ers and to officers of administration. One of the topics discussed will 
l)e that of "terminology." 

Professor Marlatt of the University of Wisconsin; Professor Berry 
of the University of Minnesota; President Ednuh Rich of Santa Barbara, 
Cal.; Professor Bevier of the University of Illinois; Professor Kinne of 
Teachers College, New York, and Professor Works of Cornell Univ- 
ersity, are expected to address the meetings. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
Journal of Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 



Electric Cooking, Healing and Cleaning. 
By Maud Lancaster. \n American 
edition of an English book revised by 
Stephen L. Coles. New York: D. Van 
Nostrand Company, 1914, pp. 320. $1..S0. 
By mail of the Journal $1.64 

Purporting to be a " Manual of electric- 
ity in the service of the home" this book 
lacks both organization of material and 
brevity of language to fulfill its purpose. In 
places it moves along in a decidedly chatty 
style and then becomes quite technical in 
tone. It is profusely illustrated, principally 
with English designs of electrical household 
appliances while few appliances now shown 
by American manufacturers are presented. 
The laundry equipment is most meager 
yet this is the place where the aid of electric- 
ity has been most welcomed in the house- 
hold. The American line of household 
dishwashers, which lighten another tedious 
household task is not even touched. 

In the chapter on electric heating of 
water, the cost and comparative heating 
efCciency of coal, gas and electricity are 
given. -Ml costs for cooking and heating 
are based on the low English rate of Id. or 
2 cents per unit — 1000 watts — while rates in 
the United States range from 3 to 20 cents 
per unit. A 10 cent rate is quite common 
in our cities. This makes all cost tables 
appear much lower than they would actually 
be here. 

Perhaps the most valuable chapter of 
the book for our use is the listing of current 
rates of a large number of the cities and 
towns of the United States. This rate to- 
gether with a knowledge of the gas rate for 



that city would enable one to decide whether 
to equip a laboratory with gas or electric- 
ity, for there are many places where electric- 
ity would give the lower running cost. 

Chemistry and its Relations to Daily Life. 
By Louis Kahlenberg and Edwin b. 
Hart. New York: The Macmillan Com- 
pany, 1914, pp. 393. $1.25. By mail 
of the Journal, $1.39. 

This volume is a textbook intended for 
students of agriculture and Home Economics 
in the secondary schools. .About half of 
the book is devoted to the presentation of 
the principles of inorganic chemistry in a 
very elementary form. Applications to 
problems of daily life are given most suc- 
cessfully in close relation to the theoretical 
discussion, wherever the relation between 
theory and practice can be simply presented. 

The treatment of more difTicult practical 
matters to which the second half of the 
volume is devoted is less successful. Ten 
chapters devoted to inorganic chemistry 
and one devoted to organic chemistry do 
not serve as an adequate background for 
the discussion of such complex subjects 
as varnishes, textiles, rubber, soils, plant 
physiology, and plant and human nutrition. 
The treatment is necessarily empirical and 
encyclopedic rather than scientific. The 
volume is profusely illustrated with cuts 
which aim to emphasize practical appli- 
cations — a home-made lime kiln, a field 
of sugar beets, a field of sugar cane, cooking 
utensils made of aluminum, thermite weld- 
ing, and many others. 



97 



98 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



The Organic Flavoring Compounds. By C. 
CoHN {Die Organischen Gcschmacksstojfe) . 
Berlin: Franz Siemenroth, 1914, pp. xi -\- 
936. 

This book is an extended treatise on the 
organic chemistrj- of the flavoring compounds. 
The first part of the volume is composed 
largely of a general classification. .\ dis- 
cussion is given of the influence of chemical 
composition and constitution upon the 
degree and kind of taste. The physiology 
of taste is also considered somewhat at length. 
Detailed information is given regarding 
the more important synthetic sweet flavors, 
such as saccharin, dulcin, and glucin. 

Roman Cooks. By. Cornells G. H.\rcum 
{Dissertation, Johns Hopkins Univ., 1913. 
/>/>.84). $0.50. By mail of the Journal, 
$0.55. 

Much interesting information is given 
regarding cooks and cooking during the 
early history of Rome. A bibliography is 
appended. Such publications are valuable 
in connection with the historical and cultural 
side of Home Economics. 

Mary at the Farm and Book of Recipes 
Compiled During Her Visit Among the 
"Pennsylvania Germans." By Edith M. 
Thomas. Norristown, Pa. : John Harten- 
stine, 1915, pp. 440, pis. 20, figs. 30. 
Strawbridge and Clothier, Philadelphia, 
$2.25. By mail of the Journal, $2.45. 

It is not often that a book comes to hand 
which shows a clearer and more "common 
sensible" understanding of the philosophy 
of housekeeping than does this volume. 
Although set in a very slender frame of 
fiction, it contains much valuable historical 
information regarding the handicrafts and 
the culinary art practiced by the people of 
German stock in the southeastern part of 
Pennsylvania. Some of the illustrations 
represent typical people and scenery of that 
neighborhood, but many of them are re- 
productions of interesting household fur- 
nishings such as home-made rugs of various 
types, old Pennsylvania pottery, types of 



lamps and lanterns, and other things. The 
recipes are typical of the dishes (many 
of them very "tasty"), beloved in that 
region and are neither too extravagant nor 
too "skimpy" for general use. 

A Texl-Book of Cooking. By Carlotta C. 
Greer. New York: Allyn and Bacon, 
1915, pp. 431. $1.25, By mail of the 
Journal, $1.37. 

As one glances at the table of contents 
of this book, one is impressed with the fact 
that much thought and care has been ex- 
pended in carefully outHning the work. 
For example, the division of foods is a some- 
what unusual one, and the author has 
avoided the mistake sometimes made of 
giving the impression to immature students 
that protein builds tissue only and carbo- 
hydrates and fats only yield energy. The 
name given to the division on the mineral 
constituent of foods is unusual, too, and yet 
in accordance with our present knowledge of 
the functions of minerals. 

The aims, as given in the preface, are 
"To lay the foundation for skill in cooking 
by directing the pupil to follow established 
recipes and to treat processes of cooking as 
experiments in a scientific study." This 
is a desirable attitude of mind to cultivate, 
even if there is some question as to whether 
skill in cooking is the most important aim 
for high school work. The preface further 
states that "An adaptation of the 'Meal 
Method' is used both for the purpose of 
reviewing processes of cooking and also for 
gaining skill and speed in the preparation of 
several foods at the same time." The plan 
is not always well carried out. There is 
some question, for cxami)lc, whether the 
menu given on page 58, "Boiled rice with 
tomato or cheese sauce, chocolate cornstarch 
pudding," is really a meal; and whether 
these two dishes should be served together, 
.^gain it is not at all clear why the meal, in 
the midst of fats, should be corn soup, baked 
potato, and fruit tapioca. 

The statement on page iv that "Subjects 
follow the logical order except where some 
other order is re(|uirctl because of the perish- 



1916] 



BOOKS AXD LITER/MURE 



99 



able or reasonable nature of foods" raises 
the question as to what is the logical order. 
For example, if, as the author says, "In the 
first portion of Part I special emphasis is 
placed upon the uses of foods in the body," 
why is it not logical to begin with "Body- 
building Foods," Division Four? Milk 
and eggs have the advantage of being famil- 
iar forms of food and just as seasonable and 
even cheaper in September and October 
than later in the year; while an examination 
of the fruits actually used shows that they 
are rhubarb, apples, bananas, apricots, and 
prunes, available, with the possible exception 
of rhubarb, in almost any season . Or, taking 
the author's own method, if she prefers to be- 
gin the actual preparation of food with fruit, 
why not relieve the "prosaic directions for 
dish-washing" by having a chart showing 
the large proportion of water in fresh fruits 
and vegetables and cook the dried fruits 
as given in Lesson 6, rather than introduce 
the more diflkult processes of broiling toma- 
toes and baking squash. The uses of 
water would be better illustrated by the 
former method and the connection more 
direct than by the introduction of two un- 
related cooking processes. Since there are 
many uses of water besides .dish-washing, as 
the author shows so clearly in Division Six, 
why not teach them in this connection and 
so enable the student to regard water as 
something other than a cleansing agent? 

Notwithstanding these criticisms, Part 
I contains much excellent material, and in 
the hands of a wise teacher, will be useful. 

In Part II, the author has brought to- 
gether a large amount of information on 
points that are of general interest to everj' 
home keeper and which ought to constitute 
a part of the training of every young person. 
The chapters on "The Lunch Box," "The 
Sick-room Tray," and "Dining-room Service" 
are excellent. 

Doubtless, there is much more work than 
many high schools can use, but the book 
will be a valuable reference book in any 
home, and many mothers will welcome the 
suggestions on food requirement and diet 
for children. 



I nstHutional Supplies. Baltimore, Md. Bu 
reau of State and Municipal Research, 
1913, report No. 5. 

Part one is a general discussion of in- 
stitutional buying followed by notes for 
the use of the purchasing ofllcials and some 
standardized specifications. Two methods 
of buying are compared: first, buying by 
competitive bids submitted by dealers on 
specifications; second, buying through ex- 
perts. The first is valuable because it 
stimulates competition, gives an open 
market, makes standardization necessary, 
and is notably valuable if the exception is 
made in case of special bargains. If the 
buying is done for a number of institutions 
an expert is able to obtain better prices and 
better quality of goods than is possible by 
competitive buying. The salary of such 
an expert, however, makes that method 
somewhat expensive. 

In order to buy to the best advantage 
it is necessary to standardize all purchases; 
that is, to make a study of the quality of 
goods, the proper unit for economy, the 
amount consumed, and the special features 
of each article. The price will also be 
affected by the time of purchase, length of 
contract, numbers of and time of delivery. 
In planning specifications it is necessary 
to make a careful estimate of needs, and a 
careful designation of quality. The sample 
buying is often more satisfactor>' because it 
is the surest form of standardization. No 
contract should be made without allowing 
for the right to reject bids or to accept in 
part. 

I'^ven when goods are bought by contract 
arrangements should be made by which 
emergencies may be met and an opportunity 
given to avail the institution of certain 
advantageous bargains. Cooperative buy- 
ing for many institutions through a staff of 
experts would be, perhaps, the most in- 
expensive and most satisfactory method of 
purchasing. 



100 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

BOOKS RECEIVED 

A-B-C of Housekeeping. By Christine Herrick. New York: Harper and Brothers, 1915 
pp. 122. S0.50. 

America's Gifts lo the Old World: A Pageant or Masque for Home Economics Students. 
By Helen W. Atwater and C F. Lang^fsorthy. Baltimore: The American Home Eco- 
nomics Association, 1915, pp. vii-j-20. $0.50, 5 or more copies $0.35 each. 

American Women in Civic Work. By Helen Christine Bennett. New York: Dodd, Mead 
and Company, 1915, pp. 277. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1.36. 

Eugenics. By Edgar Schuster. Baltimore: Warwick and York, 1912, pp. 264. $0.40. 
By mail of the Journal, $0.45. 

Food. What It Is and Does. By Edith Greer. New York: Ginn and Company, 1915, 
pp. 251. $1.00. By mail of the Journal, $1.08. 

Good Taste in Home Furnishing. By Maud Ann Sell and Henry Blackman Sell. New York: 
John Lane and Company, 1915, pp. 140. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1.33. 

The High Cost of Living. By G. H. Gerber. New York: The N. Y. Book Company, 1915, 
pp. 150. $0.50. By mail of the Journal, $0.55. 

Home-made Toys for Girls and Boys. By A. Neely Hall. Boston: Lothrop, Lee and Shep- 
ard Company, 1915, pp. 218. $1.25. 

Inside the House of Good Taste. By Richardson Wright. New York: McBride, Nast and 
Company, 1915, pp. 155. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.64. 

Lower Living Costs in Cities. By Clyde Lyndon King. New York: D. Appleton and Com- 
pany, 1915, pp. 355. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.60. 

Principles of Correct Dress. By Florence Hull Winterbum (including chapters by Jean 
Worth and Paul Poiret). New York: Harper and Brothers, 1914, pp. 245. $1.00. By 
mail of the Journal, $1 .06. 

Schools of To-Morrou'. By John Dewey and Evelyn Dewey. New York : E. P. Dutton and 
Company, 1915, pp. 316. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.61. 

PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

.in Outline on the History of Cookery. By Anna Barrows and Bertha E. Shapleigh, assisted 
by Anne D. Blitz. New York: Teachers College, Columbia Univ. Teachers College 
Bulletin, sixth series, no. 11 (1915). Technical Education Bulletin no. 28, pp. 36. $0.25. 

Canning of Fruits and Vegetables. By Harriet J. Hopkins. Amherst, Mass.: The Massa- 
chusetts Agricultural College Extension Service, August 1915, pp. 15 (Mass. Bulletin 
for Farm Women no. 2). 

Civic Education in Elementary Schools as Illustraiai in Indianapolis. By Arthur W. Dunii. 
Washington, D. C: Government Printing Office, 1915, pp. 35. $0.05. Supt. of Docu- 
ments. (U. S. Bureau of Education Bulletin no. 17, whole number 642.) 

Constructive Social Measures: A Review of Two Years Work. New York: N. Y. A. L C. P., 
Department of Social Welfare, 1915, pp. 27. 

Cooking in the Vocational School as Training for Home Making. By Iris P. 0'Lcar\-. Wash- 
ington, D. C: Government Printing Ofiicc, 1915, pp.36. $0.05. Supt. of Documents. 
(U. S. Bureau of Education Bulletin no. 1, whole number 625.) 

.My Life with a Pat of Butter. By Lloyd Logan. Philadelphia: The Union Press, 1915, 
pp. 32. $0.25. By mail of the Journal, $0.27. 

The Ten Peace Songs. By the Peace Song Commitlcc. Chicago: Woman's Peace Party, 
1915, pp. 39. $0.25. By mail of the Journal, $0.27. 



1916] BOOKS AND LITERATURE 101 

BIBLIOGR.\PHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 

Foods and Cookery 

Ice Cream Inspection. Maine Sta. Of. Insp., 57 (1914), pp. 13-20. 

Better Bread by Means of Natural Lactic Acid. A. Wahl, Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chan., 
7 (1915), no. 9, pp. 773-775. 

Analysis and Cost of Ready-to-Ser\e Foods. G. Lusk, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 64 
(1915), no. 21, pp. 1717-1723. 

Edible Snails. E. \V. Rust, U. S. Depl. Agr. Yearbook, (1914), pp. 491-503. 

Determination of Fat in Ice Cream by the Babcock Method. C. A. A. Utt, Jour. Indus, 
and Engin. Chem., 7 (1915), no. 9, p. 773. 

Mineral and Organic Analyses of Foods; New Methods for the Determination of Sodium 
and Crude Fiber. E. B. Forbes, F. M. Beegie, and J. E. Mensching, Ohio Sta. Bui., 255, 
pp. 211-216. 

Experiments with Udo, the new Japanese Vegetable. D. Fairchild, U. S. Depl. Agr. Bui. 
84 (1914), pp. 15, figs. 12. 

Soluble Aluminum Compounds — Their Occurrence in Certain Vegetable Products. C. 
N. Myers, Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S], 29 (1914), no. 25, pp. 1625-1629. 

Points on Canning and Preserving, Jelly and Pickle Making. Janet McK. Hill, Amer. 
Cookery, 20 (1915-16), no. 1, pp. 50-52. 

The Ideal Loaf of Bread. C. H. Briggs, Northwest. Miller, 101, (1915), no. 4, pp. 215, 216. 

How Vermont Maple Sugar is Made. \V. H. Crockett, Bui. Vt. Depl. Agr., no. 21 (1915), 
pp. 48, pis. 2, figs. 16. 

Composition of Corn (Maize) Meal Manufactured by Different Processes and the Influ- 
ence of Composition on the Keeping Qualities. A. L. Winton, W. C. Burnet and J. H. 
Bommann, U. S. Depl. Agr. Bui., 215 (1915), pp. 31. 

Methods Followed in the Commercial Canning of Foods. A. W. Bitting, U. S. Dept. 
Agr. Bui., 196 (1915), pp. 79. 

Nutrition 

The Influence of Milk Feeding on Mortality and Growth, and on the Character of the 
Intestinal Flora. L. F. Rettger, Jour. Expl. Med., 21 (1915), no. 4, pp. 365-388. 

The Influence of Milk and Carbohydrate Feeding on the Bacteriology of the Intestine. 
L. F. Rettger and T. G. Hull, Science, 42 (1915), no. 1080, p. 352. 

The Bacteria of the Intestinal Tract of Man. A. J. Kendall, Science, 42 (1915), no. 1076, 
pp. 209-212; no. 1080, pp. 359, 360. 

Experiences with the High Calorie Diet in TjT^hoid Fever of Infants and Young Children. 
L. E. LaF6tra and L. G. Schroedcr, Amer. Jour. Diseases Children, 9 (1915), no. 5, pp. 387- 
405. 

The Blood and the Specific Secretory Products of the Organs of Internal Secretion. J. 
J. Abel, Science, 42 (1915), 1075, pp. 165-177. 

Studies on the Theories of Diabetes, V. A Study of Narcotic Drugs in Phlorizin Diabetes. 
W. D. Sansum and R. T. Woodyatt, Jour. Biol. Chem., 21 (1915), no. 1, pp. 1-21. 

The Metabolism of White Races Living in the Tropics. I. Protein Metabolism. W. 
J. Young, Ann. Trap. Med. and Par., 9 (1915), no. 1, pp. 91-108. 

Energy Requirement of the New Born. H. C. Bailey and J. R. Murlin, Proc. Soc. Expt. 
Biol, and Med., 11 (1914) no. 4, pp. 109-111. 



102 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

The Influence of the Total Fuel Value of a Dietary upon the Quantity of Vitamin Re- 
quired to Prevent Beri-beri. W. L. Braddon and E. A. Cooper, Bril. Med. Jour., no. 2790 
(1914), pp. 1348, 1349. cf. also pp. 1373, 1374. 

The Resistance of Pure Proteins to Bacterial Decomposition. Editorial, Jour. Atner. 
Med. Assoc, 65 (1915), no. 3, p. 257. 

Cottonseed Meal for Feeding Beef Cattle. W. F. Ward, U. S. Dept. Agr., Farmers' Bui. 
655 (1915), pp. 8. 

Hygiene and Sanitation 

Some Results of the First Year's Work of the New York State Commission on Ventila- 
tion. C. E. A. Winslow, et. al., Ainer. Jour. Pub. Health, 5 (1915), no. 2, pp. 85-118, figs. 9. 

Standards of Ventilation in the Light of Recent Research. C. E. A. Winslow, Science, 
41 (1915), no. 1061, pp. 625-632. 

Clean Water and How to Get It on the Farm. R. W. Trullinger, U. S. Dept. Agr. Year- 
book (1914), pp. 139-156, pis. 3, figs. 3. 

Pasteurizing Milk in Bottles and Bottling Hot Milk Pasteurized in Bulk. S. H. Ayers 
and W. T. Johnson, Jr. U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui, 240 (1915), pp. 27, figs. 10. 

The Cost of Pasteurizing Milk and Cream. J. T. Bowen, U. S. Dept. Agr. Bid., 85 (1914), 
pp. 12, fig. 1. 

Exercise and Health. F. C. Smith, Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.] Suppl. 24 (1915), pp. 7. 

Ability of the Colon Bacillus to Survive Pasteurization. S. H. Ayers and W. Johnson, 
Jr., Jour. Agr. Research, 3 (1915), no. 5, pp. 401-410, fig. 1. 

Pasteurization of Milk and the Colon Bacillus. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 
64 (1915), no. 21, pp. 1767, 1768. 

Newer Charges Against the Insects. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 64 (1915), no. 
20, p. 1662. 

Miscellaneous 

The rex-ival of the Use of Natural Dye-Stuffs. E. S. Chapin, /our. Indus, and Engin. 
Cheni., 7 (1915), no. 7, pp. 625-628. 

The Selection of Household Equipment. Helen W. Atwater, U. S. Dept. Agr. Yearbook 
(1914), pp. 339-362, pis. 4, fig. 1. 

The Carpet Beetle or "Buffalo Moth." L. O. Howard, U. S. Dept. Agr., Farmers' Bui. 
626 (1914), pp. 4, fig. 1. 

The House Centipede. C. L. Marlatt, U. S. Dept. Agr., Farmers' Bid. 627 (1914), pp. 
4, figs. 2. 

Measurements for the Household. U. S. Dept. Commerce, Bur. Standards Circ. 55 (1915), 
pp. 149, figs. 62. (Gives information as to units, methods, and instruments of measure- 
ment of commodities, heat, light, electricity, gas, water, humidity, density, etc. Is of inter- 
est and value to housekeepers and teachers of Home Economics.) 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The Ohio Chapter of the Home Eco- 
nomics Association held its sixth annual 
meeting at Toledo, Ohio, in conjunction with 
the Northwestern Ohio Teachers' Association . 

The morning was spent in visiting schools. 
The afternoon session was held at Scott 
High School. There were four speakers 
on the program — Prof. A. VV. Trettien of 
Toledo University, spoke on Some Neglected 
Factors in the Training of Girls. He 
touched on various phases of their physical 
mental and moral development, especially 
emphasizing the fact that only in a strong, 
healthy body could we hope to have a 
sane mind. 

Miss F. M. La Ganke, Western Reserve 
University, discussed the value of "con- 
tact points." Her plea was for a more 
liberal education, an abihty on the instruc- 
tor's part to correlate the work in her classes 
in household administration with the com- 
munity housekeeping. 

The complaints of mothers that their 
daughters do not learn to cook economically, 
that they waste time and use too many 
dishes were discussed by Miss M. Chapin 
in her paper on How Can VVe Make Our 
Instruction in Home Economics More 
Efifective? 

An illustrated talk on the Adulteration 
of Food was given by Dr. Wm. Reed of 
Toledo University. He showed milk and 
bake shop goods on sale "before and after" 
the inspection by the city authorities. 

An inspection of the Household Ad- 
ministration rooms at Scott High School 
followed the meeting. The simplicity, the 
good taste, and the attention to detail in 
all the furnishings and equipment were 
especially noticeable. Tea was served in 
the refectory of the school by the Toledo 
Teachers' Association. 



Texas Home Economics Association. — 

The third annual meeting of the Texas 
State Home Economics Association was 
held on November 26, 1915, in Corpus 
Christi, in connection with the Texas 
State Teachers' Association. 

The meeting was presided over by Miss 
Emma E. Pirie, President, and was opened 
by her address to the Association. 

The following program was then carried 
out: The Purpose and Work of the Home 
Economics Department of the Bureau of 
Education, Miss Carrie A. Lyford, Depart- 
ment Specialist in Home Economics; 
Science in the High School, Dr. E. P 
Schoch, University of Texas, Austin; The 
Home Economics Teacher and the Public 
Health, Miss Grace R. Berr>', State Normal 
School, San Marcos, Te.xas; Discussion of 
the Texas Home Economics Syllabus, led 
by Miss Mary E. Gearing, University of 
Texas, Austin. 

Ellen H. Richards' Day at Ohio State 
University. — Ellen H. Richards' Memo- 
rial Day was observed by the Home Eco- 
nomics Club on December 3 with a pro- 
gram which included an address, History of 
Home Economics at Ohio State University, 
by Dean Vivian; a brief statement concern- 
ing Mrs. Richards' work by Miss Edna 
White, head of the Home Economics de- 
partment; and Personal Reminiscences con- 
cerning Mrs. Richards, by Miss Anna R. 
Van Meter. There was an attendance of 
about 200, and a generous beginning was 
made toward a contribution to the memorial 
fund. The Home Economics Club served 
luncheon to 150 guests upon this occasion. 

103 



104 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



The Pageant, America's Gifts. — The 
authors of the pageant, America's Gifts 
to the Old World, who presented it to The 
American Home Economics Association 
have recommended to the Council the 
following plan for its presentation. 

Home Economics schools and clubs who 
present the pageant are expected to pay to 
the American Home Economics Association 
20 per cent of the paid admission; or, if 
admission is free, $10 ^v-ith the purchase of 
15 or more copies, or $15 with less than 15 
copies. 

Schools and clubs not especially concerned 
with Home Economics will be expected to 
pay a royalty of $25 and 10 per cent of the 
gate receipts. 

In the case of a small school or club a 
special arrangement may be made upon 
request. 

In every case any money derived from 
the sale and use of the pageant goes to 
the Richards Memorial Fund for Home 
Economics. 

For further information write to the 
American Home Economics Association, 
Station N, Baltimore, Md. 

Two Phases of Extension Work. — The 
Home Economics Department at Ohio State 
University now has nine extension workers 
regularly in the field (and several others who 
go out occasionally), conducting courses in 
the county normals, and in the movable 
schools. The work of Farmers' Institute 
lecturers has recently been put under the 
direction of the department. 

Miss Treva Kauffman has charge of the 
inauguration of a series of weekly lessons in 
several rural schools. Each lesson includes, 
together with other subject matter, the prep- 
aration of a dish which can be used for the 
children's luncheon, e.g., hot chocolate, 
cream and other soups, various potato, 
cereal, vegetable, fruit and egg dishes. .\ 
committee consisting of pupils and teacher 
attends each day to the preparing and serv- 
ing of one of these hot dishes which the 
visiting teacher has demonstrated. This 
work has been taken up with great enthusi- 



asm by the schools visited; needless to say, 
it has afforded the teacher cvi.ellent oppor- 
tunities to teach sanitation, dietetics, higher 
standards of living, and various other things 
not explicitly laid down in the lessons as 
outlined. 

Miss Jennie Tuttle, superintendent of the 
Columbus District Nurses' Association, has 
begun a series of extension lectures and 
demonstrations in home nursing and emer- 
gency work, visiting each of the various 
extension schools in turn. 

Utah Extension Work. — Two Home Dem- 
onstrators are at work in the State. The 
projects in hand are home management and 
budgets for home use. 

The keynote of the Housekeepers' Con- 
ferences for this year is health, how to obtain 
and conserve it. Speakers of note from out- 
side the State will be present, at the con- 
ferences. 

The girls' club work is beginning very 
auspiciously. The girls are showing much 
interest in the work outlined. 

Extension Work, Iowa State College.— 
A correspondence course in Home Economics 
has been prepared for teachers of rural and 
grade schools. Thisis a course of 80 simple 
lessons so arranged that they can be easily 
applied in the schoolroom. No elaborate 
equipment will be necessary to carry out 
the work in the school, and only the practi- 
cal phases of home work are included. The 
course begins with a few lessons on the prin- 
ciples of sanitation; then takes up briefly 
personal hygiene, and home management, 
and more fully, cooking and sewing. The 
subjects are treated so that a lesson pre- 
pared in the course is adaptable to the 
schoolroom with but little additional labor. 

Enrollments may be made at any time. 
The lessons will be sent in the form of cir- 
culars containing an assignment of five les- 
sons each. The fee is $2. 

Philadelphia School Luncheons.— The 
school lunch under the management of Miss 
Emma Smcdlcv has been extended this 



1916] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



105 



year to three more high schools and twenty- 
five or more clementar>' schools. This ac- 
tion on the part of the school board is the 
result of investigation which found that 60 
per cent of the school children started the 
day's work on wholly inadequate break- 
fasts, for example, one or more cups of cof- 
fee with a doughnut or bun, or a plate of 
cabbage with a slice of bread. Their lunch- 
eon pennies were spent for pretzels, pickles 
and candy. 

For 15 cents the pupils in the high school 
can secure a substantial meal including soup, 
meat, dessert and cocoa or milk, and many 
find that 5 or 10 cents buys all they need. 
In the elementary schools the pupils may 
choose from a variety of penny dishes — hot 
creamed vegetables, soups, cocoa, milk, rolls, 
graham crackers, rice pudding, tapioca pud- 
ding, and stewed fruits. This is conducted 
on a paying basis. 

In 1909 Miss Smedley, who had been a 
dietitian at Johns Hopkins Hospital, and a 
teacher of Domestic Science at Drexel In- 
stitute, took charge of the school lunch work 
in one of the high schools. The work has 
been extended until it includes ten high 
schools and annexes, and twenty-five ele- 
mentarj- schools. 

Lewis Institute, Chicago. — This year 
Lewis Institute has strengthened its four year 
curriculum. Courses in physiological chem- 
istry, food analysis, geography of food, ad- 
vanced work in dietetics, experimental cook- 
ing, technical cooking, and household man- 
agement have been added for those who 
major in domestic science. 

The domestic economy department at 
Lewis Institute plans to meet the needs of 
several groups of students. First, classes in 
cooking and sewing are offered to the high 
school girls in the Institute. Second, a two 
year college course, for those who are plan- 
ning to teach in the grades, with instruction 
in both domestic science and domestic art. 
Third, a four year college course for those 
who are planning to teach. A student tak- 
ing this course may major either in domestic 
science or domestic art; one-fourth of the 



required credits should be elected from the 
liberal arts courses. Fourth, a one year 
course in institutional management open 
only to students twenty-live years of age, 
or older. The evening school offers many of 
the courses listed above, and in addition 
courses in practical dietetics for nurses. 

In order to offer practical experience in 
management and cooking, the classes in 
home cooking, cafeteria, tea room, and in- 
stitutional management prepare and serve 
meals daily, each student in turn taking 
charge as hostess, manager, cook, or waitress. 
These are self-supporting as the guests pay 
a reasonable charge for the meal. 

The Carnegie Celebration at Pitts- 
burgh. — ;\n invitation was extended to the 
JotJRNAL OF Home Economics to send a 
delegate to the celebration at Pittsburgh, on 
November 23 and 24, in honor of Mr. Car- 
negie's eightieth birthday and the twenty- 
fifth anniversary of the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology. The editor of the Journal 
was able to accept the invitation and is 
happy to express her thanks for the cordial 
hospitality of the Institute. This included 
not only a luncheon at the Twentieth Cen- 
tury Club, given to the women guests by 
Dean Breed; a tea at the Margaret Morrison 
School, at which Miss Lyon, head of the 
Household Economic Department and other 
members of the faculty acted as hostesses; a 
dinner given in the splendid architectural 
hall; a pageant and a French play in which 
students were actors; but most interesting 
of all, the opportunity to inspect the wonder- 
fully equipped buildings of the Institute and 
to see the students at work. 

The interest of the Home Economics vis- 
itors centered in the Margaret Morrison 
School with its fine buildings and admirable 
facilities for work. 

The courses offered in this school include: 
Household Economics, Secretarial Studies, 
Costume Economics, Home Arts and 
Crafts, Social Work, and General Science. 



Pratt Institute. 
Science and Arts. 



School of Household 
-The new members of 



106 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



the faculty are Miss Ada Gause and Miss 
Helen Sauer, instructors in trade dressmak- 
ing, and Miss Clara E. Youngs, assistant 
in cookery. Miss Gause is a graduate of 
Drexel Institute who brought to her normal 
training excellent trade experience. Last 
year she was superv'isor of domestic arts in 
the schools of Houston, Texas. A series 
of articles by her on Domestic Art in the 
Grades is now being published in the In- 
dustrial Arts Magazine. Miss Sauer is a 
graduate of Mechanics Institute, Rochester, 
with two years' experience in teaching dress- 
making. 

Miss S. Ella Huntington, supervisor of 
millinery and teacher of trade classes, re- 
signed December, 1915, after completing 
twenty-three years of service at Pratt. 
During all that time her fine personality, 
her trade experience and knowledge, her 
teaching ability and her deep interest in the 
work have been of inestimable value to gen- 
erations of students. She is leaving the work 
to enter married life and carries with her 
the warmest good wishes of her colleagues. 

The trade millinery of the winter term 
will be taught by Miss Ida Steele, who was 
trained by Miss Huntington and has since 
had excellent trade experience. 

A series of demonstration lectures in cook- 
ery now forms a regular part of the Senior 
Normal Household Science schedule, each 
student being responsible for at least one 
demonstration during the fall or winter term. 

Since these lectures are given mainly at 
settlements, where equipment is often limited 
and before audiences of varied nationality, 
there is unlimited opportunity for the de- 
velopment of initiative. Dishes prepared 
must be economical, wholesome and nutri- 
tious, and at the same time must meet the 
needs and tastes of the particular audience 
addressed, interesting the women to the 
point of trying out the recipe at home. The 
speaker must express herself in the simplest, 
most practical way, avoiding, or carefully 
explaining, technical terms. 

The requests for sj>ecial demonstrations 
that have been received from settlements 



and Mothers Clubs this season show how 
eagerly this type of instnj^tion is welcomed 
by those who most need it. One recent 
request for a laundry demonstration opens 
up a new line of possibilities. 

Connecticut College for Women has 
opened most auspiciously with what is 
believed to be a record freshman class — 
freshman in more than one sense — for they 
are not only freshman but the first class to 
enter the new college. There are 137 of 
them, 50 resident in the two college houses, 
50 living in New London and its environs 
and 37 special or part time students who 
come only for one or two courses in which 
they are particularly interested. This last 
class contains many older women. 

The college has at present five buildings, 
four of them built of rock quarried on the 
grounds, the fifth a temporary refectory 
and facu'ty house. The dormitories were 
built through the generosity of Mr. Morton 
F. Plant who gave $120,000 to build and 
furnish them. The administration and class 
room building which contains also the 
laboratories was built through the generosity 
of the people and corporation of New Lon- 
don, the former raising through personal 
subscription about $137,000 and the latter 
giving $50,000 from the city treasury. 
The endowment of the college, the magnifi- 
cent sum of $1 ,000,000, was given altogether 
by Mr. Morton F. Plant. 

The college grounds are 340 acres in 
extent, running along the historic YaJe- 
Har\'ard course on the Thames River and 
back from the river about three-quarters 
of a mile, including a beautiful bit of forest, 
Bolleswood, the deed to which traces it 
back to the possession of Uncas. The 
Shore Line Electric passes the college grounds 
and gives easy communication with Nor- 
wich and the down town part of New London. 

Connecticut College proposes to oflfer the 
regular courses leading to the B.A. and 
B.S. degrees and in addition to give such 
vocational courses as it ciin add from time to 
lime. .\t present work is offered in library 
work, in domestic science (dietetics, design, 



1916] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



107 



etc.), ceramics, photography, secretarial 
work, and physical education. It must 
be remembered, however, that freshman 
work only is ofifered this year, as it is the 
intention of the college to add to this each 
year until in three or four years complete 
work in these subjects will be available. 

Especial attention has been given to the 
dietetic laboratory, which is up-to-date in 
every respect. Cabinet gas ranges are used, 
twenty in number, and with the range in 
unit groups are cabinets and sinks. .\ 
practice dining room, pantry, and store 
room belong with the laboratory and ad- 
joining is another large room which is 
intended in time for the study of the chemis- 
try of foods. 

A Vocational Congress for High School 
Girls.— More than a hundred girls from all 
parts of Montana, representing high schools 
and county rural schools, gathered at the 
State College at Bozeman November 18 to 
20, to attend the third annual vocational 
Conference held by the College in coopera- 
tion with the State Federation of Women's 
Clubs. 

Each delegate on her return to her own 
school is expected to give, an account of 
what she has seen and heard at the Congress 
and so to extend and multiply its useful- 
ness. In one high school the representative 
was chosen as the result of an essay contest 
on the subject. Why I Wish to .\ttend the 
Vocational Congress. 

President Hamilton in his welcome to the 
guests spoke of the economic independence 
of woman as the basis of her freedom and 
of her need of knowledge of possible op- 
portunities if she is to choose a vocation 
rightly. 

Many able and successful men and wo- 
men, experts in their own lines addressed the 
conference, discussing the various kinds of 
paying work, other than teaching, now o|)en 
to women. 

Some of the occupations whose claims 
were discussed were presented under the 
topics. The Woman .Agriculturist, News- 
paper Work for Women, Women as Scien- 



ti6c Workers in State and Municipal Labora- 
tories, Home Economics Extension, Train- 
ing for Christian Social Service, Women in 
the Onicc, Costume Designing, Why I am 
a Police Woman, and Money-making for 
the Home Girl, while some of the more 
usual occupations such as nursing were 
treated from a new point of view; nor was 
Home Making as a profession omitted. 

Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Oilman gave an 
address on Women and Work. 

Three Eastern states. New Jersey, Ten- 
nessee and West Virginia, through club lead- 
ers, have expressed interest in this pioneer 
vocational congress have asked for full 
particulars about the Montana organization. 

The School for Housekeepers at the 
University of Illinois. — The program of 
the school for Housekeepers held at the 
University of Illinois January 17 to 28 
included not only food lectures and demon- 
strations, studied in form and color as ap- 
plied to costume and problems in house 
furnishings, but also demonstrations of 
power machinery for household use, stereop- 
ticon lectures on landscape gardening and 
the flower garden, and on the plans and 
elevations for an Illinois country house; as 
well as many broad topics pertaining to the 
higher life of the home and the community. 

The Fifteenth Meeting of the Cen- 
tral Association of Science and Mathe- 
matics Teachers was held on November 26 
and 27 at the Carter Harrison Technical 
High School, Chicago. Two sessions were 
devoted to Home Economics, one of these in 
combination with the chemistry section. 
Some of the topics were: The Specific Con- 
tributions of General Chemistry to Home 
Economics, by Miss Nellie E. Goldthwaite; 
.\t What Point in the Home Economics 
Course Should Chemistry Be Made an Or- 
ganic Part? by Miss Abby L. Marlatt; 
Dietaries in the High School, by Miss Minna 
Denton, and Miss Edna White of Ohio State 
University; The Organization and Place of 
Marketing in the High School, by Miss 
.\lice M. Loomis, University of Nebraska. 



108 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



Important Meetings. — Some of the 
meetings to be held in the near future that 
would be of special interest to Home Eco- 
nomics workers are the meetings of The 
Department of Superintendence of the N. 
E. A., to be held at Detroit, Michigan, Feb- 
ruary 21 to 26. Several allied associations 
are to meet at the same time. The Ameri- 
can Home Economics Association will hold 
a council meeting and also a general con- 
ference. 

The Thirteenth Annual Meeting of The 
Religious Education Association will be held 
in Chicago, at the Congress Hotel, February 
28, 29, March 1, 2, 1916. Certain session? 
will be devoted to the interests of the home. 
The Religious Education Association has 
from its beginning maintained a home 
department. 

The American Chemical Society meets at 
Urbana, Illinois, with the University of 
Illinois, .\pril 18-21. .\ program of papers 
on Chemistry and Home Economics is 
pi aimed for one of the sessions. 

The National Conference of Charities and 
Correction holds its annual meeting at 
Indianapolis, May 10 to 17. 



The General Federation of Women's Clubs 
holds its biennial in New York City, May 
23-June 1. 

Dr. C. F. Langworthy was appointed as 
delegate from the American Home Eco- 
nomics Association to the Second Pan Ameri- 
can Scientific Congress held in Washington. 
December 27, 1915 to January 8, 1915. 
Miss V'an Rensselaer was designated as alter- 
nate delegate. Her name appeared on the 
program as one of the speakers. 

Brief Notes. — The American .\ssociation 
for the Study and Prevention of Infant 
Mortality held its sixth annual meeting in 
Philadelphia, November 10 to 12, with 
sessions on Pediatrics, Obstetrics, Economic 
.\spects of Infant Welfare, Eugenics, Care 
of Homeless Babies, and Nursing and Social 
Work. 

Instead of having the usual exhibits 
the comm'ttee arranged for the Association 
to xdsit the various baby-saving activities 
in Philadelphia. 

Miss Gwendolyn Stewart, formerly in- 
structor in physiological chemistry at the 
Santa Barbara Normal School of Manual 
.Arts and Home Economics, is spending this 
year in the Physiology Department at 
Stanford University. 



\oL. \ III. Xo. 3 MAIU'H, 1916 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in !lonuMnakin>i. Institution Managenient, 
and P-ducational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs Ai.icK P Norton. RHilor Kftcrah E. Baldwin. MannKini; Editor 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Marv H. .^bf.i. .\nna Harrows C. F. Langworthy Isabel Ely Lord 

Ex-Oficin Mrmher< — MARTHA Van Rensselaer. Prrtident American Home Economics .Association 
Sarah Locise Arnold, Clmrman Institution Economics Section 
Ruth Whefler. Chairman Science Section 
Gertrtdk McCheyne, Chairman Extension Education Section 

('ollahorniors — The Officers, Memhers of the Council, and Advisers 



CONTENTS 

I I \(III RS" ('()TT\(,KS AM) RlR\l IloMK I^uSi.MMS f •Mphilir Pnsloil ]W 

|)i>MKSTic Art in thi; IIi(;h S( ikkii. ("(immkrcim. Coi rsi-; . (.'I<ir<i .\f.Sl,rl( 112 

The QiF.STiON Box 117 

The High School Library a.vd Homk I-xonomics \l<iry J . Booth IIS 

Tm: Mixeral Nitrtents in Practic.m. Him an Dietetics .... /•;. B. Forbes 122 

\ Mi;THf)r) FOR Sui'i'dRTiNi; Fiv\Nri\i, Ki cords 1.^0 

MAC .\Ni) ITS Uses 132 

Pastei RiziNi, Cream .... 1.^2 

The (■o\ii'\rati\k Cost oi IIomi: I'kei'Ared and Co\lMERCIAI.l.^ I'ki.I'aki d 1'oods 

I.roii.i C. Fnrhlliiiii .ni,l Marx R. Bclz l.V^ 

I'OR Till. lloMl MAKER \M 

The Use of I)i.\bet:c Ki.oi rs \niy I.. D.iniil^ .luti Gr.m Dulaiti'y \M 

-Seven Textile I-fbers Cliurlolte Gihbs Bnker 144 

Tin: I'EEDiNi. OF Children 147 

Editorials . . . 14S 

Hooks and Liter \tcke l.=il 

HinLior.RMMiv or Home Kconomics 1.^7 

News from the 1'iei d l.V) 



The Journal oi Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association. 
$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.25. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on .N'ew York, E.xpress Order or Postal Money Order, payable 
to the .American Home Economics .Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CH.-\NGE IN .-\DDRESS. Notice of clianRe in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which the 
change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old .\ddress sho',:ld be clearly indicated in addition to the .New .\ddress. 

.\MERIC.\X HU.Mi; KCONOMICS .ASSOCL'VTIOX St.ation .V, Baltimore, Md. 

Entered as sec)nd class m.ittei at the liiltiinorr Post Oflici- 



s -i*^--!!^ 








\ 



Collage near Brewsler occupied by two young women teaching in adjacent districts 




I Htuble cottage at Kurcka. One side uccupietl by principal and wile, tlu uihir l)y 

iwn women assistants 

I KACHKRS' CnrrAciKS, Washington (see page KWi 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. VIII MARCH, 1916 No. 3 

TEACHERS' COTTAGES AND RURAL HOME ECONOMICS^ 

JOSEPHINE PRESTON 

State Superintendent of Public Instructian for Washington 

The greatest problem in education today is the rural school. The 
greatest need is for teachers with initiative, leadership, experience, high 
ideals, character, broad sympathy, and education. Where shall we get 
them? Some are in the rural school. But on the whole they have not 
been particularly attracted to the rural school. Why? 

It is only within recent years that we have recognized the importance 
of the rural school problem. Since we have awakened to its importance 
we have readjusted our courses of study to meet the needs of the rural 
life, and have more and more sought the well trained and experienced 
teacher for our rural school boys and girls. 

But we found that we could not keep them after we secured them. 
They taught often only one year. Why? In the early history of our 
rural schools the pioneer teachers boarded around. If the family who 
took the teacher for the week was able to give comfortable and sanitary 
housing accommodations, all well and good. But if the teacher had to 
be crowded into family quarters with poorly prepared meals the memory 
of that week stood out as one of the glaring evils of rural life. We out- 
grew this "boarding around" and it became the custom for the teacher 
to board with one family, if that were possible, throughout the term. 

Sometimes the majority of the famiHes in the neighborhood wanted 
to board the teacher. Some of our greatest complications arose from 

* Presented at the Eighth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Association, 
SeatUe, 1915. 

109 



110 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

the boarding question because often the teacher had to choose from a 
number of places offered her. If perchance she changed her boarding 
place after once having selected it, it was certain to bring dissatisfaction. 

Finally we reached the period in the boarding question when we 
found the farmer's wife mildly protesting against the teacher boarder. 
Sometimes it was because the teacher who came out to board expected 
first class hotel service in the busy farm home. She must either change 
her point of view or make life miserable for that home. 

However the real reason for this growing discontent was because the 
farmer's wife worked hard during the spring, summer and fall months and 
counted the winter months as her time for recreation. Then too the 
farmer himself felt a desire to be relieved of the teacher boarder. One 
farmer said to me one day when I was presenting to him his responsi- 
bility to take the teacher to board, "I do not want a teacher sitting 
around my fireside every evening. I want to be alone with my family 
once in a while." I thought of that well furnished many-roomed house 
which he and his family called home and I said at once: "That in- 
trusion is very easily adjusted. Put a stove in one of those fine large 
well-furnished bedrooms of yours and give the average teacher plenty of 
wood and you will see very little of her except at meal times." He 
straightened up with much dignity and considerable spirit and said, 
"Mrs. Preston, any teacher that would be too good to sit with my family 
in the evening could simply pack her trunk and leave." 

Sometimes the argument against the teacher boarder comes to us in a 
controversy like this: Mrs. A. says, "I boarded the teacher last year; 
Mrs. B. can take her turn at it this year." Mrs. B. insists that she kept 
the teacher year before last and that it is Mrs. C's turn. Poor timid 
Mrs. C. says, "I would gladly take the teacher but we have ten children 
and only two bedrooms and I do not see how we could accommodate 
her." 

The teacher's cottage idea came to us as a last resort. After dealing 
with this boarding question from an administrative standpoint for a 
number of years I took the position that no teacher could give her best 
services unless she was happy and comfortable in her boarding place. I 
felt that the district had a resj)onsibility in regard to the teacher's hous- 
ing conditions. For ten years we have been building cottages for the 
rural teacher where the need seemed to justify this expenditure on the 
part of the district. 



1916] teachers' cottages and rural home economics 111 

The state of Washington now has one hundred and twelve cottages. 
Each of thirty out of thirty-nine counties possesses from one to twelve 
of these dwellings, varying in cost from fifty dollars to thirty-two hun- 
dred dollars. Some of these residences are movable "shacks" that can 
be set on a logging train and moved when the camp moves; some are 
humble "lean-tos" built against the side of the school-house; in one 
district, on the Colville Indian Reservation, the teacher lives in a com- 
bination house and tent; in many cases the old school building has 
been worked over for a house for the teacher when a new school-house 
has been erected. But the majority of our cottages are the serviceable, 
well-built little houses of from two to six rooms, standing near the school 
building on the school grounds. 

But what has this to do with Home Economics? Why is this a prob- 
lem of a Home Economics Association? It is a "rural teachers' home 
movement," and this in itself would be a sufficient reason; a second 
reason lies in the fact that Home Economics may be taught better in 
rural schools by the use of the rural school cottage. 

If there is a teacher's cottage it may be used as a laboratory for do- 
mestic science. These cottages are equipped with the usual kitchen 
utensils, cook stoves, sinks or suitable wash stands, and work tables. 
One of the teachers in our state who utilizes the district cottage for do- 
mestic science demonstration allows the pupils to prepare the noonday 
lunch of the school here. The farmers' families contribute milk and 
potatoes and other vegetables for this community plan of noonday hot 
lunches at the school. The idea of linking the teacher's cottage with 
domestic science is only passing from a remote possibiHty to a reality, 
but the rural schools in the future that give their most efficient training 
will feel that they have not been given their full opportunity until they 
have been given a teacher's cottage in which to teach the fundamental 
principles of Home Economics. 

The new Washington Course of Study will set forth plans for the child 
to get 50 per cent of his credit in agriculture and Home Economics by 
doing work at home and sending in proper reports. This is the plan that 
must be used in the majority of our isolated districts. The teacher in 
these districts will give as much instruction as possible in her hmited 
day of work, and then the pupils will put into practice at home the 
knowledge that they have received at school. 

The decoration of the school cottage, the furnishing of the school cot- 



112 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

tage, the making of the bed in the school cottage, the setting of the table 
in the school cottage; these are the opportunities whicl come to the 
teacher over and over again in the occasional visits from pupils and 
neighborhood farm women to demonstrate a model lesson in home mak- 
ing and housekeeping. Our kitchen plans and furnishings are intended 
to include those priceless modern conveniences that would reform most 
country homes and should give the country woman the conception of an 
easier method of doing her work. 

The teachers' cottage assures a living place for the teacher; it attracts 
better teachers; it increases the tenure of oflQce; it makes the teacher 
infinitely more efficient in school room and community, for every sub- 
ject taught, including Home Economics, is better taught because this 
better type of a teacher has been brought to the rural school. 



DOMESTIC ART IN THE HIGH SCHOOL COMMERCIAL 

COURSE 

CLARA M. STEELE 

The importance of domestic art work in the course of study for the 
girl who will become a homemaker after graduation has long been recog- 
nized. Its worth as part of the training of the girl who takes the general 
high school course has been conceded for some time. But the idea that 
part of the time spent by girls in the commercial course in our high schools 
should be given to domestic art is still a new one. 

The fact that personal appearance plays so large a j)art in a girl's suc- 
cess has long been known, as has also the fact that it is with great dif- 
ficulty that the girl on a small wage presents an appearance which will 
bear careful inspection. Since this is true why should not our public 
schools in their commercial courses provide the girl with opjjortunities 
to learn how best to solve her problems and so make her prrsonal ap- 
pearance a help, rather than a hindrance to her success in business. 

The following course is planned to meet the needs of the business 
girl. 



1916] DOMESTIC ART IN THE HIGH SCHOOL COMMERCIAL COURSE 113 
OUTLINE OF DOMESTIC ART FOR GIRLS IX THE COMMERCIAL COURSE i 

Time allowed. One year (36 weeks) ; one lesson (90 minutes) per week. 

Previous work. Domestic Art work in seventh and eighth grades, 
including the elementary stitches and simple machine work. The mak- 
ing of very simple pieces of underwear, bags and the cooking uniforms. 

Problems for Course 

Main problem 

What knowledge must I, a business girl, have of Domestic Arts to 
make my personal appearance a financial asset? 

Contributing problems 

I. What must I know of personal hygiene? 

II. How much of my income shall I spend for clothes and how shall I 
apportion it? 

III. What must I know in order to choose my clothes wisely? 

rV. What must I know of sewing, garment-making and millinery in 
order to make my allowance suffice for my needs? 

V. What can I learn that will help me prolong the usefuhiess of my 
clothes? 

I. What must I know of personal hygiene? 

1. Good posture, (a) Sitting, (b) Standing, (c) Walking. 

2. Exercise, (a) Need of, (b) Kinds of, (c) Opportunities for. 

3. Health habits, (a) Breathing (proper breathing through nose, re- 
sults of mouth breathing, deep full breathing, effects of tight clothing 
on); (b) Sleeping (need of, amount necessary, regular habits, impor- 
tance of fresh air, importance of comfortable bed, importance of well 
fitting sleeping garments); (c) Eating (importance of regular meal 
times, uniform amounts, thorough mastication); (d) Drinking (impor- 
tance of abundance of water, right method in drinking, use of hot and 
cold drinks). 

^References: Laughlin: The Complete Dressmaker. 

Banner, Bertha: Household Sewing with Home Dress Making. 
Patton, Frances: Home and School Sewing. 



114 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

II. How much of my income shall I spend for clothes and how shall I 

apportion it? 

Study of the budget as a whole: How much shall I spend for board, 
clothes, savings, incidental expenses, carfares, health (doctor, dentist, 
toilet supphes), religion and charity, improvement, amusements and 
recreation. 

Clothing budget: How much shall I spend for suits, undergarments, 
shoes, ties, gloves, etc. 

III. ^\^lat must I know in order to choose my clothes wisely? 

1. Hygiene of clothhig. 

2. How to judge materials, trimmings, etc. 

3. Suitability of materials for garments, garment to wearer, garment 
to occasion, garment to purse. 

4. Costume design: Requirements of good dressing include: (a) unity 
in costume, (b) good Hnes, (c) pleasing silhouette, (d) subordination 
of costume to wearer, (e) enhancement of beauty of wearer, (f) appro- 
priateness. 

IV. WTiat must I know of sewing, garment-making and millinery' in order 

to make my allowance suffice for my needs? 

1. Stitches commonly used. 

2. Embroidery, crocheting, tatting, etc., for use in neckwear, etc. 

3. How to use a machine and its attachments. 

4. How to choose, alter and use a commercial pattern. 

5. How to make simple garments which are relatively expensive to buy 
ready mode: (a) Nice underwear; (b) Waists; (c) Neckwear — collars, 
cufTs, guimps, ties, etc.; (d) Simple dresses suitable for business. 

6. Construction of simple hat frames, their covering and trimming. 

7. Renovating of materials — velvets, ribbons, silks and feathers. 

V. WTiat can I learn that will help me prolong the usefulness of my 

clothes? 

1. Daily care: (a) Clothes: general care, brushing, hanging, folding; 
(b) Shoes: brushing, airing, use of shoe trees; (c) Hats: brushing, use 
of paper bags for storage, substitutes for hat pins. 



1916] DOMESTIC ART IN THE HIGH SCHOOL COAtUERCIAL COURSE 115 

2. Weekly care: (a) Clothes: removal of stains, darning and mend- 
ing, sponging and pressing, laundering (waists, collars and cuffs, gloves, 
stockings); (b) Shoes: repairing, shining. 

3. Seasonal care: (a) Clothes (airing, removal of stains, darning and 
mending, laundering, folding, storing); (b) Shoes (cleaning, repairing, 
shining, storing); (c) Hats (brushing, packing, storing). 







OUTLINE OF LESSONS 




PROJECT 


NO. OF 

LESSONS 


PROCESSES 


THOUGHT CONTENT 


COST 


Simple corset 


3 


Review of work given in 


Choice of materials from stand- 




cover. 




grades, adjusting pat- 
tern, altering pattern 
if necessary. Seams, 
sewing on lace and 
buttons, button holes. 
Making lingerie cord, 
crocheted or knotted. 
Other necessary 
stitches. 


point of quality, suitability, 
laundering properties and 
cost. 

Choice of patterns: good lines, 
simplicity, ease in making and 
in laundering. 

Hygiene of clothing. Knit vs. 
muslin undergarments. 
Kinds of seams to be used. 
Why? 

When is it desirable to make 
underwear? Amount of money 
to be spent on underwear. 
Relative cost of home made 
and factory made underwear. 

Responsibility in buying. Con- 
sumer's League. Good taste 
in underwear. 




Shirtwaist. 


8 


Adjusting pattern, alter- 
ing pattern. Cutting, 
fitting. Making plack- 
ets. Inserting sleeves. 
Sewing on hooks and 
eyes or fasteners. 
Finishing. 


Study of designs suitable for 
business. Line and color har- 
mony. Selection of pattern 
and material. 

Discussion of personal appear- 
ance and its relation to suc- 
cess in business. 

Study of budget. How much 
should this garment cost? 
How much strength is it 
economy for me to use in 
making my clothes? 

Need of exercise and good pos- 
ture. Health habits, contri- 
butary to good appearance, a 
Business asset. 

Care of waists. Laundering of 
white and colored materials. 
Folding, storing. 


$.50 



116 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



OUTLINE OF LESSONS— Continued 



pao/Ecr 


NO. OF 
LESSONS 


PROCESSES 


TBOCCHT CONTEN- 


COST 


Neckwear. 


5 


Designing of pattern and 
ornamentation. Cut- 
ting. Fitting. Em- 
broidery stitches. 
Crocheting. Tatting. 


Discussion of importance of 
neckwear in effectiveness of 
costume. Economy in mak- 
ing. Importance of individ- 
ual touches in making a cos- 
tume. 

Value of handwork. Just prices 
for it. 

Consumer's League work and 
its importance. 

Good designs for various types 
of figures. Harmony of color 
and line in costume. Econom- 
ical value of utilizing spare 
moments by making usable 
fancy work. 

Care and laundering of hand- 
work. 


$.25 


Darning and 
patching of 
articles 
brought 
from home. 


3 


Darning stockings. 
Darning cashmeres. 
Mending. Patching 
(hemmed, overhanded). 
Mending gloves. 


Economy in darning and mend- 
ing. When is it not economy? 
A "stitch in time." Economy 
in buying stockings of good 
quality and darning them of- 
ten. Importance of good 
dyes. 

EflFect of poorly fitted shoes on 
wear of stockings. Selection 
and care of shoes. Sense of 
self respect, the result of well 
mended garments. Unfavor- 
able impressions which ripped 
gloves, run down heels, etc., 
give. 




Remodelling 
skirt (wool 
or silk.)* 


12 


Brushing skirt, ripping, 
cleaning, pressing. .Al- 
tering pattern. Adjust- 
ing to material. Cut- 
ting, making, pressing. 
Scams. Hemming on 
facing, putting on 
bands. Sewing on braid. 
Placket, lastcning. 


Advisability of remaking old 
garments. Removal of stains. 
Textiles. 

Laundering of wool. Applica- 
tion to undergarments. 

Selection of good design in 
pattern. Approprialcne«vs to 
wearer. Im|>ortancc of a 
plca.sing silhouette. Desira- 
bility of simple styles. 

Care of skirt.^, dresses and coats. 
Brushing. Hanging. 





* In this course, problems n remodelling were chosen as they afTord op|X)rtunitic« for work 
in cleaning of materials, renovating and daily, weekly and sea.sonal care of clothes for which 
it might not have been possible to allow time otherwise. 



1916] 



THE QUESTION BOX 



117 







OUTLINE OF LESSONS— Continued 




PROJECT 


NO. OP 
LESSONS 


PROCESSES 


THOUGHT CONTENT 


COST 


Remodelling 


5 


Cleaning frame and trim- 


Proportion of income to be spent 




hat. 




mings. Steaming vel- 
vet. Renovating silks, 
ribbons, feathers. 
Making trimmings, 
bows and flowers. 
Simple trimming. 


on hats. 

Study of budget. 

Relation of lines of hat to face 
and to figure. Importance of 
hat in silhouette. Suitability 
of hat to occasion. 

Economy in buying good mate- 
rials and conservative styles. 

Frame should fit the head and 
be comfortable. Headache 
caused by ill fitting, heavy 
hats. Effect upon hair of 
heavy hat. 

Care of hat. Daily and seasonal. 





THE QUESTION BOX 

Question: What is being taught today about the digestibility of 
boiled milk— digestibility meaning length of time, ease and complete- 
ness of digestion of the boiled milk, particularly as a food for babies. 

Answer: That boiled milk of another species is better borne than 
raw milk of another species has been shown by a number of investigators. 
(The literature has been reviewed in the Lane-Claypon Report to the 
Local Government Board of London, New Series number 63, 1912.) 
According to Brenneman {Journal of American Medical Association, 
vol. Ix, 1913, p. 575), the curd formed during the digestion of boiled 
cow's milk is much finer than that formed during the digestion of raw 
cow's milk. This undoubtedly explains the reason for those results 
which show that boiled milk is better borne. However, milk heated to 
the boiling temperature is less valuable as a food owing to the fact that 
one of the constituents, cystin, is in part destroyed by heating. (Rett- 
ger, American Journal of Physiology, vol. vi, 1902, p. 450); (Schultz, 
Zeil. Physiol. Chem., vol. xxv, 1898, 16); (McCollum and Davis, Journ. 
Biol. Chem., vol. xxiii, 1915, p. 247). 



118 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [IMarch 

THE HIGH SCHOOL LIBRARY AND HOME ECONOMICS 

MARY J. BOOTH 
Librarian, Slate Normal School, Charleston, Illinois 

How can the high school library help the teacher of Home Econom- 
ics? In answer let me first ask another question, How did the college or 
university library help you when you, as a student of Home Econom- 
ics, were receiving your training? If your student life was passed in 
a school where the general library had a representative collection of 
books and made them accessible by adequate cataloging and supple- 
mented them with pamphlets, clippings, pictures, lantern slides and edu- 
cational exhibits, you know perhaps better than I can tell you how a 
high school library with similar equipment might help you. 

But I can imagine your discouragement when you discovered, on be- 
ginning your teaching, that practically nothing in the way of books or 
supplementary material was provided for your pupils by the high school 
library and that your private library was too small for the demands 
made upon it. Perhaps there was no high school library and very little 
material on Home Economics in the public library. Then you decided 
to remedy this condition and set about collecting material for the use 
of your classes. This constantly increasing mass of material was kept 
in your class room as the most convenient place. As your work in- 
creased you did not have time to collect many of the recent publications 
even if there had been room for more material. 

The plan of having a general high school library has been proposed, with 
the intention of gathering together all the scattered books and pamphlets 
belonging to the school and placing them in one room in charge of a 
librarian. So we come back to the question asked at the beginning. 
How can the high school hbrary help you, a teacher of Home Economics? 

With all the material centralized, a teacher wishing to hunt up a topic 
in textiles, such as silk or cotton, could find in the library' the books and 
pamphlets on the subject, or a record of their withdrawal. If withdrawn, 
they will be recalled for her use. Should she want the books for use 
in her class room they may be taken there; should she want them on re- 
serve shelves in the library they may be ])laced there. If put on the re- 
serve shelves they are available at any time during the school day to 
members of the class and may usually be withdrawn for use over night. 
With only class room libraries this system of reserve books can not be 



1916] THE HIGH SCHOOL LIBRARY AND HOME ECONOMICS 119 

undertaken and consequently the students have access to the books only 
when the class room is unoccupied. Often the teacher is obliged to leave 
soon after dismissal of school, and the room is inaccessible to pupils at 
perhaps the only time in the day when it might be used by them. 

When the class has finished the topic in textiles the books are returned 
to the general collection where they are ready for the teacher of com- 
mercial geography or for the teacher of English for theme work. If a 
course is being given in costume design, there will probably be some 
historical consideration of the subject and this calls for books from the 
history department as well as from the Latin and Greek departments. 
If the course includes the costumes of different foreign countries of to- 
day the books in the geography department would be of use. In the 
study of household sanitation, books from the department of physiology 
and hygiene would be needed for supplementary use; in the study of 
household bacteriology books from the biological department; in the 
study of the sewing machine books from the department of physics; in 
the study of household chemistry books from the department of chem- 
istry. 

If class room libraries alone had been used this free interchange of 
books would have been almost impossible. Without the general catalog 
no one would know what books were owned by the different departments. 
With a general b'brary well cataloged the books in different departments, 
treating of the same or related subjects, are brought together in the 
catalog and made available for all the teachers, thus giving each book 
the maximum amount of use. 

A central library can be of great help in the collection of material 
obtainable free or at small cost. Especially in Home Economics there 
is a wealth of such material found in government publications, state 
publications, and advertising pamphlets. Much of this is of value, but 
the editions are limited and only those obtaining copies early can be 
certain of securing them. A librarian alert to increase the collection of 
material that she knows will be of use, will be on the watch for notices of 
valuable pamphlets. Of especial value for this purpose are the monthly 
catalog of United States public documents and the monthly catalog of 
state pubHcations, both obtainable from the Superintendent of Docu- 
ments, Washington. The monthly Ust of publications of the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture is also useful as it is issued before the monthly cata- 
log of public documents, thus making the pubHcations available earlier. 
The address Hst for illustrative materials and laboratory supplies for in- 



120 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

struction in household arts issued by Teachers College, Columbia Uni- 
versity, is of value. 

Letters written on the library stationery usually bring the pamphlet 
requested, when the request of an individual would not always get a 
favorable response. Sometimes it will be possible to obtain six or more 
copies of a pamphlet needed for class use. The most valuable of the 
pamphlets would be pasted in pamphlet covers in order to stand hard 
usage, while others of less value would be filed with the chppings. 

The kind of material available is illustrated by such pamphlets as 
Education for the Home, by Benjamin R. Andrews, U. S. Bureau of Edu- 
cation Bulletin, 1914, numbers, 36, 37, 38, 39; Mechanics of the Sewing 
Machine, Singer Sewing Machine Company, Singer Building, New York; 
Spices, McCormick and Company, Baltimore, Md.; Substitutes for 
Meat, and How to Use Left Overs, recent pamphlets published by the 
New York City Food Supply Committee. Sets of colored postcards, on 
tea and coffee, 25 in a set, are sent free by Hills Brothers, San Francisco, 
for example. 

The high school library should also have a clipping collection, a pic- 
ture collection, and educational exhibits. If a teacher of Home Eco- 
nomics were gathering information on the subject cocoa or chocolate, be- 
sides the books and pamphlets entered in the card catalog, there would 
be available pictures of how cocoa pods are gathered, and perhaps an 
exhibit showing the pods in different stages and the steps in the manu- 
facture of cocoa and chocolate. P'or some subjects, as interior decora- 
tion, there would be clippings supplementing available books and pam- 
phlets. 

In order to have the library of the high school of the greatest useful- 
ness, the librarian should be a person of good education and with library 
training. Some unsuccessful teacher who "just loves to read" will 
prove unsatisfactory as may also a good teacher who. interested in li- 
brary work, wishes to undertake the care of the library as part of Jier 
school work. Some of the high schools in the East arc demanding that 
the librarian be a college graduate and a graduate of a library school. 
With these requirements of course goes a salary equal to the other high 
school teachers who are heads of departments. The librarian is more 
than a clerk, more than some one to keep order in the study room. 

Besides helping the teacher in Home Economics, the library must be 
of use to the high school student. Books belonging to all departments 
arc made available for him by the catalog just as they are for the teacher. 



1916J THE HIGH SCHOOL LIBRARY AND HOME ECONOMICS 121 

But more than this, the student must be taught to use the hbrary intel- 
ligently. Just how to get the time for this is a problem that has been 
worked out in different ways in different schools. Sometimes the Eng- 
lish and history departments give half or whole recitation periods to the 
librarian for this instruction, and why should not the Home Econom- 
ics department do this also? Surely the ability to use a library in these 
days when libraries are so general should be a part of the common educa- 
tion. The librarian, not the teacher, should give the instruction in the 
use of the library. In the early lessons the rules of the library and the 
location of books should be explained, the use of the catalog, including 
author, title, subject cards, and call number, and how to find the books 
on the shelves. Every entering class needs at least this instruction given 
with problems to work out embodying the points brought out in the 
lessons. Later on in the high school course the use of common reference 
books and of magazine indexes should be explained and problems given. 
Learning how to use the magazine indexes is particularly important as 
so many valuable and timely articles are printed in the magazines. In 
Home Economics, especially, there is much usable material in the maga- 
zines. By means of this instruction, the students are able with little 
waste of time to look up material for topics not only in the high school 
library but also in the public library, which must be used to supplement 
the school library. 

One factor necessary for the full usefulness of the high school library 
lies in the teacher of Home Economics herself. If she is not interested 
and does not make use of the materials provided, and shows in every 
way she can that she does not wish to cooperate, she becomes one of the 
"stone walls" that librarians sometimes run up against; but if she is 
progressive, and realizes that the high school library is trying to serve 
her interests, she will cordially cooperate with the librarian, make use 
of the materials provided and suggest other ways of helpfulness. With 
a teacher of this kind and with a Hbrarian well trained and anxious to 
help, the usefulness of the high school library is assured. 

In closing I wish to quote the words used by Mr. Purd B. Wright, li- 
brarian of the Kansas City, Missouri, public library, in ending his ad- 
dress before the Library Department of the National Education Asso- 
ciation in 1914, "In conclusion let it be borne in mind constantly by 
both librarians and teachers that their work is mutual and only by their 
getting this view point of each other, and understanding the end 
sought by each, can satisfactory results be obtained." 



122 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

THE MINERAL NUTRIENTS IN PRACTICAL HUMAN 

DIETETICS^ 

E. B. FORBES 
Ohio Agricultural Experiment Station, Wooster, Ohio 

In consenting to present this paper I did so with the feeling that per- 
haps I have as good right as anyone else to confess for all of us that we 
know very little about the subject. The suggestions I have to make 
then are offered in entire humility and with satisfaction only that we are 
on the road to more complete understanding. 

My task is to point out the bearings of results of experiments in the 
field of mineral metabolism upon our irrational, uncontrolled and largely 
uncontrollable human dietetic afifairs. Only in the case of infants, in- 
valids, lunatics and convicts does it seem practicable to regulate the diet 
of human beings with the same rationality and particularity with which 
the successful live-stock farmer habitually feeds his animals. In spite 
of the difficulties of the task, however, and the indifference of most of 
us to the economic and rational aspects of our own eating, there are 
those dependent upon us who should have the benefit of our wisest coun- 
sel, even though we put ourselves in the position of saying, "you are to 
do not as I do, but as I say." 

In order to bring clearly to mind the basic principles of nutrition in- 
volved in this consideration I must enumerate the functions of the 
mineral elements in animal metabolism: 

As bearers of electricity the mineral elements dominate the whole 
course of metabolism. 

They conduct nerve stimuli, and play a leading r61e in the general 
process of cell stimulation. 

They govern the contraction of the muscles, including those of the 
heart. 

They compose the central agency for the maintenance of neutrality 
in the blood. 

They enter into the composition of ever}' living cell. 

They compose supporting structures. 

They assist in the coordination of the digestive processes. 

' Presented at the meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, 
Columbus, 1916. 



1916] MINERAL NUTRIENTS IN HUMAN DIETETICS 123 

They activate enzymes, and through their control of the chemical 
reaction of the blood and tissues they govern enzyme action. 

They unite with injurious products of metabolism, and render them 
harmless or useful. 

As catalyzers they alter the speed of reaction, and the rate of metab- 
olism generally, as measured by oxygen consumption. 

Through their efifects on osmotic pressure they govern the movement 
of liquids, and maintain the proper liquid contents of the tissues. 

Through their effects on surface tension they participate in the 
mechanism of cell movement. 

Through their control of the imbibition of water by the colloids they 
govern absorption and secretion. 

Through their control of the affinity of the blood for gases they 
govern respiration. 

Finally, they control the state of solution, precipitation, mechanical 
aggregation, chemical association and ionization of the colloids which 
compose living tissue. 

These then are some of the functions of the mineral elements. Con- 
sidering their nature and importance it is at once obvious that Hfe could 
not endure if its complex mineral requirements were not automatically 
and constantly maintained in almost perfect adjustment. What then 
are the facts which warrant the practical consideration of this subject? 
They are that in pathological states these functions are somewhat de- 
ranged, and that hfe as we Hve it is in many respects highly abnormal, 
in the sense of differing from that to which human metabolism is attuned; 
and with our ever increasing social differentiation Hfe puts increasing 
stress upon the integrity of the body and its normal processes. In rela- 
tion to food materials there are also important facts bearing on this mat- 
ter of the mineral nutrients, for, while highly developed processes of food ( 
manufacture and efficient world-wide transportation give us the greatest 
opportunities for correct dietetics that there have ever been, these same ) 
agencies open the way to greater unwisdom and abuse in dietetics than j 
have been possible in our more primitive days. The net result is an 
obHgation on our part to prepare a defense of knowledge against the ' 
misfortunes of prosperity. 

It is my belief that anything like exact quantitative control of human 
mineral metabolism, as a practical measure, is as impossible as it is un- 
necessary; impossible first, because any kind of control of human die- 



124 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

tetics is very difficult; second, because our knowledge of the optimum 
mineral requirements of human beings is especially slight and fragmen- 
tary; third, because the interactions of the mineral elements among 
themselves affect mineral metabolism in such prominent ways that fixed 
and definite statements of mineral requirements are likely to be mis- 
leading. Exact control in these matters is unnecessary because of 
the existence of safety provisions for bridging over temporary de- 
ficiencies, of a perfection in harmony with the surpassing importance of 
mineral metabohsm. 

It is my belief, therefore, that in our present state of knowledge close 
statements of the mineral requirements of human beings involve a large 
element of "ceremonious delusion" (borrowing the expression from 
Thudichum), and that practical advice regarding the mineral metabolism 
of healthy human beings may most properly be general in character, and 
in the nature of recommendations of types of food products which 
should predominate in the diet under the various conditions of life, 
growth and activity. 

We shall discusss certain of the mineral nutrients in detail, citing facts 
as to their occurrence in foods and metabolism in the body. 

The one mineral salt which we use as such — sodium chloride — occu- 
pies a unique position among the mineral nutrients. Within wide 
limits it seems to make little difference how much sodium chloride we 
consume, and the kidneys excrete this salt without marked energy ex- 
penditure. Under certain conditions excessive intake of this salt causes 
slight increase in nitrogenous outgo, but such abnormal consumption 
would result in indigestion before the increased protein katabolism would 
become important in extent. 

A special method and capacity of the kidneys for the elimination of 
sodium chloride is shown by observations of Schloss' and of Borchardt.' 
It appears that this salt alone fails to cause a loss of water from the 
body corresponding to the amount of salt eliminated. 

Bunge relates our unusual appetite for salt to the potassium content 
of the diet, and the antagonistic relation between sodium and potassium 
which exists in metaboli.sm. It takes such a quantity of potassium 
salt to cause an appreciable increase in the elimination of sodium, how- 
ever, that I prefer to explain our peculiar relations to sodium chloride 

«Schloss: Biochem. Ztschr., 22 (1909), nos. 3 and 4, pp. 28,V289. 
»Borchardt: Deut. mcd. Wochcnschr., 38 (1912), no. 37, pp. 1723-1727. 



1916] MII^RAL NUTRIENTS IN HUMAN DIETETICS 125 

as due to the marine origin of vertebrates and the consequent adaptation 
of these forms to life in a somewhat concentrated solution of this salt. 

Other physiological antagonisms which are often mentioned are those 
between calcium and magnesium and between calcium and sodium; 
other less important ones have been shown to exist between chlorine and 
iodine, and between chlorine and bromine. 

The retention of the minerals is also prominently affected by their 
relative abundance in comparison with the requirement, that is, by the 
so-called ''law of minimum," the least abundant constituent, as com- 
pared with the demand, serving largely to determine the usefulness of 
others with which it is associated in metabolism. The various salts of 
the diet also affect the solubiHty of others of this same group of nutrients 
in important ways. 

The net result of these interrelationships among the mineral nutri- 
ents is likely to be manifest as a prominent lack of correspondence be- 
tween the retention and the intake of these substances. The man to 
whom quantitative relations in mineral metabolism appear to be simple 
and direct is not embarrassed by an acquaintance with much of the 
evidence. 

Calcium, phosphorus and iron are more likely than other mineral 
nutrients to be lacking in human dietaries. On this account especial 
interest attaches to their occurrence in food. Calcium is especially 
abundant in milk, and is also contained in considerable quantities in 
eggs, vegetables and fruits. Phosphorus is abundant in milk, eggs, nuts, 
peas, beans and such cereal products as contain the outer seed coats. 
Iron is found in largest quantities in beef, eggs, beans, peas, green vege- 
tables (especially spinach) and in the outer seed coats of the cereals. 
The foods which are poorest in minerals are polished rice, peari hominy, 
white flour, bolted corn meal and other cereal foods which lack the outer 
seed coats. These foods, because of their highly digestible character and 
lack of salts are apt to be constipating. Magnesium is abundant in 
the cereals and is not apt to be deficient in normal rations. The mag- 
nesium salts of the outer seed coats of cereals contribute a laxative 
character to foods containing them. Enough sulphur is contained in 
the proteins of any ration which supphes the nitrogen requirement. 
Potassium is found in considerable quantities in most normal foods and 
is also present in sufficient amount in almost all diets. 

Manganese, boron, silicon and iodine are among the less abundant 



126 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

minerals in the body, the presence of which in the necessary quantities 
in the diet we take for granted. We are just now finisliing up in my 
laborator>^ iodine estimations on about 950 samples of food products in 
a study which will show in what foods iodine is found, and which may 
perhaps show a relationship of the iodine of foods to the prevalence of 
goiter. 

Considering the proportion of minerals to other nutrients needed dur- 
ing the several stages of life there is, from birth to maturity, in general 
a decreasing requirement, but with periods of increased demand due to 
unusual functional activity, especially during puberty, pregnancy and 
milk secretion. The usual mineral requirements of mature human 
beings are comparatively slight, and are probably satisfied by all normal 
diets (provided we specify with some particularity as to what consti- 
tutes a normal diet). It is, therefore, during rapid growth and during 
the reproductive life of women that the mineral nutrients are especially 
in demand, and it is at these times that lack of mineral nutriment and 
irrational hygiene cause or aggravate a number of well-known patho- 
logical conditions which are characteristic oi these states of being. We 
shall mention in detail the mineral requirements at some of these times of 
greater need. 

The normal food of the human infant naturally furnishes its full min- 
eral requirement. This subject becomes of interest in this connection, 
therefore, in cases of artificial feeding and in certain metabolic derange- 
ments. For an artificial food we naturally turn first to cow's milk, which 
because of high fat and casein contents must be liberally diluted. If 
water is used, the necessary dilution reduces the minerals, the albumin, 
the lecithin and the so-called accessory nutrients to an undesirable ex- 
tent. The best diluent is whey, which anyone can prepare with the aid 
of a thermometer and a commercial rennet preparation in a few min- 
utes. (The whey must be heated to 68°C. or 154° Fahrenheit to kill the 
enzyme, before it is mixed with milk.) With combinations of whey, 
skim milk, cream and milk sugar you can play any dietetic tune you 
please on the infant organism, and with these foods the intelligent par- 
ent can rear any infant which can five at all. The especial usefulness 
of whey is due to its abundant mineral content in natural physiological 
solution. It serves as a stabilizer — a corrective. You can do no harm 
with whey unless you use the evap>orated preparation, whey powder. 
It is possible by an abuse of this food to cause oedema (in weak infants) 



1916] MINERAL NUTRIENTS IN HUMAN DIETETICS 127 

through excessive ingestion of minerals, though this would never occur 
in its proper use. 

The commonest metabolic disturbance in infants is gastrointestinal 
indigestion. Its commonest cause is a weak digestive apparatus and 
too much fat in the food. Alkali soaps, formed in the intestine, instead 
of being digested and absorbed are passed olT in the feces. Alkalis are 
lost to the organism; mineral acids are left to predominate; infantile 
acidosis ensues. What shall we do? Reduce the fat in the food and 
add sodium citrate to furnish an oxidizable alkali salt. 

Because of its low oxidative capacity tlie infant organism is especially 
subject to acid intoxication from relatively slight causes, the acid excess 
being due to the normal acid products of metabolism and to imper- 
fectly oxidized organic compounds, especially beta-oxybutyric acid. We 
have mentioned the weak digestive apparatus and deficient capacity 
to handle fat. Inanition also causes acidosis in infants. Fever is a 
very common cause. In all these cases whey is especially valuable. 
Many a child has been taken through long sieges of fever on whey. 
Children do not lose weight rapidly on whey alone. Egg white and 
fruit juice, especially that of the orange, may be used with whey to 
advantage; they furnish some nutrient and appreciable amounts of 
alkali. 

The infant is bom with a store of iron within its body. During the 
nursing period this store is gradually depleted, since the milk contains 
little iron. At weaning time the infant stands in need of iron. This is 
usually supplied in egg yolk, beef press juice, scraped beef, prunes, 
whole wheat foods and oatmeal, and some physicians of unquestioned 
standing recommend spinach. I happen never to have seen spinach 
used, however, for an infant. Egg yolk is of especial value as a source 
of iron, calcium, phosphorus and lecithin. But it is an exceedingly 
rich food. It must be fed with great care on two accounts, first to 
avoid making the baby sick, because while it is usually well taken it 
acts like poison to some infants, and second because the value of egg is 
so great that it is especially unfortunate if you upset the infant by an 
overallowance, since it may be a long time before it will regain its toler- 
ance for this food. 

In connection with the mineral metaboHsm of infants mention must 
also be made of rachitis. The cause of this disease is unknown. It is 
not due primarily to lack of minerals in the diet and does not respond 



128 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

readily to simple increase of minerals in the food, though calcium salts 
administered with phosphorized cod-liver oil are usually beneficial. 

The existence in infants and older children of simple malnutrition of 
the bones, a common malady in young farm animals, is not well estab- 
lished; and the prevalent imperfections of children's teeth are not cer- 
tainly related to deficiencies in the diet, but seem rather to be caused by 
lack of exercise (due to the fine milling of our cereals and the chewing of 
our meat with a sausage mill), the increasing use of sugar (a readily 
fermentable, acid-producing food) and increasing use of fruits, the 
organic acids of which soften the tooth enamel. 

In considering the mineral requirements of human beings we may 
bear in mind the facts that more than three-fourths of the ash of the 
body is in the skeleton, which includes about 88 per cent of the phos- 
phorus and more than 99 per cent of the calcium of the entire body. 
Thus in discussing mineral requirements of the organism as a whole we 
have to do very largely indeed with the skeleton, but we must not over- 
emphasize these facts, for the quantities involved are no gauge of func- 
tional importance, as is illustrated by the fact that iodine, which is 
found in the body in infinitesimal amounts is just as essential as the 
pounds of calcium. 

Beyond the period of infancy the mineral nutrient which is most 
commonly lacking in the diet is calcium, though phosphorus also may be 
deficient, and the iron content of the diet is sometimes inadequate, as 
evidenced by the existence of anaemia in children. 

For purposes of growth our best single sources of mineral nutriment 
are milk and eggs. Of these, milk lacks only iron, and eggs only cal- 
cium. The incubating bird supplements the moderate calcium content 
of the egg by absorbing an appreciable amount of lime from the shell. 

During the reproductive life of women liberal use should be made of 
the iron-containing foods, such as beef, eggs, fruits and green vegetables, 
especially spinach, green beans and cabbage. Lactation makes a 
heavier demand upon the mother for mineral nutriment than any other 
incident in her life, and the most efficient method of providing the 
mineral requirement is, naturally, through the use of milk, or foods 
made from milk. 

In old age there seems to be an absorption and loss from the body 
of much bone substance coincident with the general atrophy of the 
tissues. This is most apparent in the receding of the processes of the 



1916] MINERAL JiUTRIENTS IN HUMAN DIETETICS 129 

maxillae and the absorption of the spongy structure of the interior of 
the long bones. This appears to be a physiologic process, and we have 
no evidence that it is affected one way or the other by the minerals of 
the diet, though it is conceivable that there might be some such influence. 

Generally speaking, a high ash content of the food is desirable, since 
the organism is much better able to handle an excess of ash constituents 
than to meet a deficiency. It is good practice, therefore, to utilize the 
water in which foods are cooked, in so far as this can be done without 
detracting from the acceptability of the food, since the cooking-water 
dissolves out much mineral matter. An abundance of mineral salt in 
the diet is also desirable, aside from nutritive considerations, because they 
contribute a laxative character to the food. Foods which are deficient 
in minerals are apt to be constipating. 

A general character of the mineral nutrients of foods is the pre- 
dominance of acid or basic elements. If the nutrients are present in the 
proportions in which they are needed the bases will predominate, and 
it is probably best that the bases should exceed the acid elements in 
the diet. It is true, however, that the organism has the capacity to 
neutralize a considerable excess of acids. Meats, eggs and cereals have 
acid ash; vegetables, milk and most fruits have alkaline ash. The 
latter group should be liberally represented in the diet. 

The diets which are most likely to supply enough of each of the min- 
erals are those characterized by liberality and diversity. Extreme 
simplicity of diet is not advantageous. The usual diets of prosperous 
Americans do not lack mineral nutrients. But we are not all prosper- 
ous, and some of us choose unusual dietetic combinations. The central 
features of improperly chosen diets are usually an undue dependence 
upon meats and foods made from finely milled cereals or other cereal 
foods lacking the outer seed coats, and too little use of milk and 
vegetables. 

Those circumstances most likely to lead us into error in this matter 
are ignorance, poverty, parsimony, dietetic fads, peculiarities of appe- 
tite and disordered digestive functions. 

Now in conclusion, it is certainly true that we muddle along fairly 
well without much attention to this subject, but one never knows when 
he may need additional insurance in the way of understanding. Through 
my slight knowledge of this subject I was able to save my own son, and 
that of course seems to me to have been worth while. Then too, though 



130 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

there be no lives in danger, there is a certain satisfaction which we all 
take in efforts to direct our alTairs with intelligence even though "the 
worst laid plans of mice and men gang oft aright." 



A METHOD FOR SUPPORTING FINANCIAL RECORDS 

The readers of the Journal who have responsibility for the finances 
of any department of a school, of a college, or of business relations, may 
be interested to learn of the devices now in force within the Association 
for making easy and adequate an audit of the Association finances. 

Two requirements for an audit are universally applicable. The 
first is some evidence that all money which ought to have been col- 
lected has been reported or is shown to be still due, and the second is 
exadence that all money shown to have been collected has been ade- 
quately accounted for either by authorized payments or by funds in 
hand. These things do not require any particular method of keeping 
books, but make absolutely necessary some documentary or physical 
evidence of both receipts and disbursements. 

With regard to receipts of money, a system should require that when 
money is received for reasons which do not compel the receiver of the 
money to deliver at once equivalent value (such as merchandise, books, 
etc.), some documentary evidence shall be retained in the office to show 
how much was received and for what reason. The best evidence for 
this purpose is a form of receipt, which every remitter knows that he 
should get whenever he makes payment, so arranged that not only the 
receipt transmitted to the sender of money but the stub of the receipt 
remaining in the hands of the receiver of the money shall indicate how 
much was received. With such an arrangement, it is impossible for the 
receiver of money to sequester any funds unless he gives an unauUior- 
ized receipt, or no receipt, in return; and to this the sender of tlie money 
would naturally object. 

The Association, in order to i)rovidc that the central olficc and the 
treasurer may have documentary evidence for satisfying the auditors 
regarding the amount for which they arc actually responsible, has pro- 



1916] METHOD FOR SUPPORTING FINANCIAL RECORDS 131 

vided a special form of triplicate receipts, consecutively numbered in 
bound books, having at the left end, in a single horizontal column, 
numbers from "one" to "ten," the receipt proper indicating that the 
amount shown on the margin of the receipt is the amount which has 
been received. When, therefore, the receipt is detached, at the point 
indicating the amount received, the next higher number remaining as a 
stub in the bound receipt book is known to be higher by one number 
than the amount receipted for; and this is the auditor's evidence of the 
receipt. Only even dollars are provided for, because dues and sub- 
scriptions are in even dollars. As handled in practice, the first copy of 
each receipt is sent to the remitter, the second, which is on very thin 
paper, is sent to the treasurer with the funds collected, and the third, 
which is on thin cardboard, is retained in the central office for reference. 
The receipt of money from the sales of publications is covered by the 
dehvery of the goods, and may be checked by the auditors through a 
comparison with the copies printed and the stock on hand. 

For covering disbursements, a blank voucher lists the bills which 
each copy is intended to authorize, with date and amount, and accom- 
panies the original bills ; and the signature of some officer of the Asso- 
ciation, authorized by vote of the Council to incur debt, is required be- 
fore the treasurer makes payment. In case the payment is authorized 
directly by the Council or by vote of an appropriate committee, the 
voucher form indicates such vote, with the signature of the person com- 
petent to justify the expenditure. The back of the voucher form lists 
the objects for which expenditure is made, and when the accompanying 
bills do not make sufficiently apparent the object served, the officer ap- 
proving pa>-ment indicates the proper distribution of the charge. To 
avoid annoying delays in meeting petty current expenses, as carfares, 
telegrams, expressage, etc., petty cash funds are provided when neces- 
sary. The officers holding such funds are responsible to keep account of 
disbursements from them, and to cover such disbursements by signed 
vouchers — on receipt of which the treasurer reimburses the officer and 
charges the money reimbursed to the objects for which the money was 
originally spent. 

This method simplifies the keeping of the accounts, for the sources of 
each kind of income and the cause of all expenditure are indicated by 
documentary evidence or by physical inventory. 



132 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

SUMAC AND ITS USES 

Lovers of wild plants and flowers have often admired the sumac and 
have wondered if it had any use. As a matter of fact, the sumac has 
served various purposes, besides being decorative. 

The wood (and under favorable circumstances, the tree makes a fairly 
large growth) is very beautiful, being a clear yellow with darker veining. 
It was more appreciated in earlier times than at present, perhaps be- 
cause it was procured more easily then than now. 

The dried fruit of the smooth sumac (Rhus glabra) has had some use 
in medicine. The berries are astringent and very sour, owing their 
latter quality to the acid present in their downy covering. According 
to rehable information, they have been used, though infrequently, for 
making an acid drink and for a jelly mixture. It hardly seems worth 
while to use sumac berries for such a purpose in these days, but in earUer 
times housekeepers had a much more Umited list of food materials to 
draw upon and tested pretty nearly everything in their attempts to 
secure variety, making use of many things which had no marked merit. 

Sumac wood, bark, leaves and peduncles were used by our grand- 
mothers in domestic coloring; for instance, in dyeing black on cotton. 
Many receipts for such home dyes may be found in the manuals and 
household receipt books, which so commonly found a place on the home 
"book-shelf" fifty or more years ago. 



PASTEURIZING CREAM 

The cost of pasteurizing cream in the manufacture of butter has been 
estimated by specialists in the U. S. Department of Agriculture to vary, 
under local conditions, from 6 hundredths to 15 hundredths of a 
cent for each pound of butter. In comparison with the market price 
of first-class butter, this cost may be said to be almost negligible. In 
addition, the process of pasteurization improves the hcalthfulness of the 
product. 



1916] HOME PREPAEED AND COMMERCIALLY PREPARED FOODS 133 

STUDENTS' CONTRIBUTIONS 

The Journal from time to time has received papers from students in Home Economics 
courses representing work that is often of great interest and value. It seems fair, however, 
that such material should be presented as students' work rather than with the authority that 
would come from the experienced teacher or worker. 

The Journal will be glad to reserve an average of two pages a month for such contribu- 
tions if the various schools are interested to send them. 

The following paper is by two graduates of Ohio State University, but was prepared while 
the authors were students in that institution. 

It was sent in response to Miss Barrow's request for records of the comparison of home 
made and commercially made products. 

Miss Anna Van Meter. Department of Home Economics, Ohio State Uni%'ersity, sends 
this note: "The data given and the conclusions drawn in this partial report are valuable 
largely because of the suggestions which they offer for more thorough tests along the same 
lines." — The Editor. 

THE COMPARATIVE COST OF HOME PREPARED AND 
COMMERCIALLY PREPARED FOODS 

LEONA C. FRECHTLING AND MARY R. BETZ 

The aim of this problem was to determine whether it is more eco- 
nomical and desirable to prepare foods at home or to buy them ready 
prepared. We considered: 

1. The cost of materials. This includes not only the raw materials 
used, but also glasses, cans, and rubbers. The entire cost of the rub- 
bers, while only one-fifth of that of the glasses and cans was used, as 
these latter can be used at least five times. 

2. The cost of fuel. As we were taking Columbus prices and condi- 
tions, we used gas as fuel. There might be some question in regard to 
the fuel in this work, as in many cases the quantities prepared, such as 
jellies, were not so large as would probably be prepared at one time in 
a household. This, of course, would increase the cost of fuel. In bak- 
ing, this error is eliminated by the fact that the quantities prepared are 
comparable to household practice. For example, two loaves of bread, 
cinnamon rolls, Parker House rolls, and short cake were made in one 
afternoon and baked together. 

3. The desirabiHty of the finished product. This was considered only 
in relation to cost. A low priced but very undesirable product would 
not be considered cheap in comparison with a higher priced but much 
more desirable product. 

The time was not considered at all, for two reasons. First, in doing 



134 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

this work we had in mind the housekeeper. Preparation of foods is a part 
of her profession and therefore her time is already paid ior. The same 
thing is true in regard to cooks and maids, who are now almost entirely- 
paid by the week, and not by the amount of work accomplished. Sec- 
ondly, the conditions under which this work was done were very differ- 
ent from those in a household, as a very accurate account of all things 
used was kept, and thus the time of preparing greatly lengthened. How- 
ever, in summing up the work we have estimated the time ordinarily 
required to do the work in a household. 

The wear and tear on the cooking utensils and stoves Ukewise were 
not taken into account, as it was so small in the short tune required for 
this work. 

The following is an outHne of the foods considered : 

1. Canned goods: vegetables, fruits, relishes, dressings, catsup. 

2. Preserved goods: jellies, marmalades, preserves. 

3. Flour mixtures: pies, cakes, cookies, bread, rolls, doughnuts, 
noodles. 

4. Meals. 

5. Desserts. 

In making these comparisons we purchased what we thought a good 
representative sample of the class of goods to be considered, and matched 
these as nearly as possible with the home products. In the first and 
second classes of goods we compared by quantities; in the flour mixtures, 
by weight. With reference to the meals we calculated the cost per per- 
son, and took into account what was actually eaten in each case, regard- 
less of whether they were of equal amounts or not. 

Comparisons of quality and of price of some of the products will be 
found in the data following, but there are conclusions that can be made 
generally in regard to these classes of foods. In canned goods and pre- 
serves, and also in desserts, there is a marked difference in both price and 
quality. Most commercial goods are not so desirable as the home pro- 
duct, and have a characteristic taste. In flour mixtures the difference 
lies in quality rather than in price. In the case of meals things other 
than mere cost and flavor entered in — for example, that of having the 
meal prepared at a definite time. We had the various things of the 
meal ordered and they were promised to be delivered before the time of 
the lunch. Lunch time came and the invited guests arrived but the 
order had not been delivered. After keeping the guests waiting for some 



1916] HOME PREPARED AJTO COMMERCIALLY PREPARED FOODS 135 



time, we rushed to the nearest grocery and bought what could be served 
immediately. 

There was not time for reheating the preparations. Of course, it is 
conceivable that this might happen to an order for raw materials, but 
raw materials can usually be ordered long enough beforehand so that 
such a delay of delivery would not be an inconvenience, whereas not 
many prepared commercial products can be kept for any great length 
of time in the household. For instance, in one of our meals we served 
ice cream. The quantity needed was so small that it could not be got- 
ten packed, therefore, we were forced to go after it just before serving 
the meal. 

After considering all these food preparations we came to the general 
conclusion that in almost every instance it is cheaper and more satis- 
factory to prepare foods at home than to buy them ready prepared. 

CotnparisoK of products 



Canned peaches.. 

Grape juice 

Grape jelly 

Apple jelly 

Orange marma- 
lade 

Catsup 



AMOUNT 
COMPARED 



COST OF 

COM- 
UEKOAL 



1 pint 

1 pint 
1 glass 

1 pint 
1 glass 
1 pint 



cents 

20 



25 



25 



50 



25 



30 



COST OF 
HOME UADE 



cents 

7.6297 



5.7725 



3.1805 



17.7280 



7.0496 



11.6752 



45 min. Commercial product had un- 
cooked taste and was hard 
and rather tasteless. Home 
product had a very good flavor. 

30 min. Home product a great deal 
fresher, but otherwise products 
are very much alike. 
1 hr. Commercial is gummy and rather 
tasteless. Home product of 
better consistency and had a 
fresh fruit taste. 

\\ hrs. Commercial is gummy and taste- 
less. Home product of bet- 
ter consistency and has a 
fresh fruit taste. 

Commercial had a very bitter 
and undesirable taste. It was 
of gummy consistency. Home 
product had a fairly good taste, 
but undesirable consistency. 

Home product had a very good 
flavor of fresh tomatoes. Com- 
mercial had peculiar charac- 
teristic flavor, and evidently 
was colored. 



Comparison of products — continued 



Salad dressing . 
Doughnuts . . . 



Apple pie . 



Bread. 



Cinnamon rolls . 



Ginger cakes. . 



JeUy roU. 



Sugar cookies. 

Patty shells. 
Lemon ice . . . 



AMOUNT 
COUPARED 



pint 



1 dozen 



1 pie 



425 gms. 

1 com- 
mer - 
cial 
loaf 

285 gms. 

(^ doz. 
CO m- 
me r- 
cial) 

196.5 
gms. 

(7 com- 
mer- 
cial.) 

IroU 



1 dozen 

1 dozen 
1 quart 



COST OP 

COM- 
UEKCLAL 



cents 
30 



10 



10 



10 
10 

30 
40 



COST OF 
aOUE MADE 



8.9294 



7.5026 



9.0880 



4.3565 



2.9610 



15 min. 



1 hr. 



45 min. 



4hrs. 



4 hrs. 



4.2162 

12.4020 
8.3000 

14.1000 
14.5909 



1 hr. 



IJ hrs. 



U hrs. 



li hrs. 



Commercial had a sour, mustard 
taste — vcr>' undesirable. High- 
ly colored. 

Commercial were grease soaked, 
while home made had a very 
good flavor. Nutmeg and 
grease composed all the flavor 
that could be detected in com- 
mercial. 

Commercial product tasteless, 
crust quite good, tender and 
well browned. Home product 
had a very good flavor and 
crust was very similar to com- 
mercial. Very likely commer- 
cial was made of canned apples. 

The home product was very 
much more desirable in texture 
and flavor, having a sweet 
nutty flavor rather than a 
sour "baker's" flavor. 

The same comparison may be 
made of cinnamon rolls as of 
bread. Besides this home pro- 
duct can always be had fresh 
while the commercial rolls we 
got were stale. 

Home made were lighter, moister, 
better texture and flavor. 
Commercial were hard, had a 
peculiar baker's taste — were 
much less desirable. 

Home made much better than 
commercial. Eggs were fresh 
in the home made, but in the 
commercial they were stale. 

The home and commercial pro- 
ducts were very similar — but 
the characteristic flavor of the 
commercial was lacking in 
iiomc made. 

Very much alike. Commercials 
were very desirable. 

Home protluct had a good flavor. 
Commercial did not have 
lemon taste but a bitter, bily 
commercial flavor. 



1.36 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

THE USE OF DIABETIC FLOURS 

AMY L. DANIELS AND GRACE DULANEY 

Department of Home Economics, University of Wisconsin 

Requests often come for information concerning the preparation of food in the home for a 
diabetic patient. The physician has given general directions, but the one who must carry 
out these instructions has no knowledge of the necessary detail. The following article should 
be of service to those who need this help, as well as to teachers of dietetics. — The Editor. 

One of the most serious problems which confronts us in the treatment 
of diabetes mellitus is the supplying of suitable food to the patient. To 
keep the urine sugar-free, yet give the individual a variety in his food 
and satisfy his appetite, requires much skill and thought. It is difficult 
for the patient to adjust his appetite to a low carbohydrate diet. One 
can easily dispense with the starchy vegetables, but it is the bread, cake 
and sweets for which the diabetic has a constant longing. Bread is an 
article of diet which enters into the daily menu of all classes of people 
more extensively than any other form of food. The desire to give the 
diabetic a bread low in carbohydrate led to the introduction of gluten 
bread in 1841. The flour for this bread was manufactured by washing 
the starch from wheat flour. Following this first attempt there have 
been many so-called gluten flours and similar preparations put upon the 
market. Many of these flours are very hard to convert into pleasing 
and appetizing breads, because of the small amount of starch contained 
in them. A yeast bread requires starch; therefore, with those flours con- 
taining little or no carbohydrate, other leavening agents must be used. 
Further, the same proportions of these prepared flours cannot be used, 
because they absorb much more liquid than the wheat flours. 

Owing to the difficulty experienced in making palatable dishes from 
the gluten flours and the uncertainty of their composition, the use of 
these and similar diabetic preparations has been practically abandoned. 
However, in 1913 the Connecticut Agricultural Experiment Station pub- 
lished a bulletin containing the results of the analyses of a large number 
of diabetic preparations. Many of these are made from wheat and 

137 



138 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



contain more or less starch; others are made from soy beans, lentils, and 
nuts of various kinds. Since we have these data, there is no reason why 
some of these manufactured products cannot be used for the preparation 
of breads and cakes for the diabetic patient and thus satisfy his craving 
for these foods. Recent experiment work, carried on by many investi- 
gators, on the dietetic treatment of diabetes makes a study of the methods 
of using diabetic flours pertinent at this time. 

The preparations used in the formulae given are representative of the 
various types of diabetic flours. The composition of these is given in 
the table below.' 

These commercial products were selected on the basis of analytical 
work, reported by the Connecticut Agricultural Experiment Station.^ 

Doubtless others that would answer equally well might have been 
chosen, but since advertisements are often misleading in their state- 
ments none should ever be used without knowledge of their composi- 
tion from an independent source. 

The use of sugar in the diet of a diabetic is generally prohibited. In 
the recipes saccharin is used as the sweeteni'^.g agent. This is a coal- 
tar product and, although supplying no nutriment, is a useful means of 
furnishing the sweet taste in food mixtures. It is about five hundred 
times sweeter than cane sugar, so only very small quantities are needed. 
However, it must be used in moderation, because large doses — 1 to 1.5 
grams — are followed by digestive disturbances. Saccharin in small 

^Composition and cost of diabetic flours 



FUDUR 


COST 

PER 

POUND 


PERCKNTAGE 
COMPOSITION 


KANUTACTUllER 




Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 




Hoyt's gum gluten 

Twenty per cent gluten 
meal 


$0.14 

0.25 
0.50 
0.50 
0.50 
0.12 


31 

27 
41 
80 
42 
25 


1.6 

0.5 
20.0 

1.5 
20.0 

1.0 


52 

60 
25 
10 
25 
59 


Pure Gluten Food Company 

Kellogg Food Company 
Theo. Mctcalf Company 
Thco. Metcalf Company 
Health Food Company 
Calumet Tea and Coffee Com- 


Soja bean meal 


Vegetable gluten meal 

Protosoy soy flour 

Lentil brosia' 




pany 



* Street, J. P., Report of the Connecticut Agricultural Exp. Station, Food Products 
and DruRs, 1913, Section 1. 

* In addition to those included in the report, lentil brosia, a preparation of dried and 
pulverized lentils was used. Its composition and cost are therefore given above. 



1916] THE USE OF DIABETIC FLOURS 139 

doses, not exceeding 0.3 gram (5 grains) daily apparently cause no un- 
toward results.-' In using saccharin it will be found most convenient 
to dissolve a definite quantity in a given amount of water, so that one 
teaspoonful of the mixture will contain a known amount of saccharin. 
For example, one gram of saccharin may be dissolved in two and one- 
half tablespoonfuls of water, in which case one-half of a teaspoonful of 
the liquid will contain one grain of saccharin. The term grain used in 
the recipes refers to the apothecaries' weight. 

Since, according to the newer methods of feeding diabetic patients it 
is necessary to know how much of the various food stuffs, protein and 
fat as well as carbohydrate, is being supplied, we have given the nutri- 
tive value of the dishes prepared by the various formulae. All meas- 
ures are level; and in all cases the flour should be sifted before measuring. 

Following are rules for the typical batter mixture using various dia- 
betic flours: 

MUFFINS 

J egg h tablespoon melted butter 

J cup water i cup Hoyt's gum gluten flour 

i saltspoon salt 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Sift the dry ingredients, add melted butter, beaten egg, and gradu- 
ally the water. Beat thoroughly. Fill well buttered gem-pans about 
two-thirds full and bake in a hot oven (230° C. or 446° F.) twenty minutes. 

Number of muffins— two. 

Composition and nutritive valued 

frams 

Protein 12.21 

Fat 9.11 

Carbohydrate 14 • ^ 

Total calories 189.63 

POP-OVERS 
1 egg 2 tablespoons Hoyt's gum gluten flour 

} cup water * saltspoon salt 

Mix ingredients thoroughly with a Dover egg beater. Pour into a 
buttered pop-over cup. Bake in a hot oven (240°C. or 464° F.) for forty 
minutes. 

« Friedenwald and Ruhrah : Diet in Health and Disease. 

*The data pertaining to food values are taken from Rose: Laboratory Manual of 
Dietetics, 1912, 



140 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

Number of pop-overs — one. 

Composition and nutritive value 

grams 

Protein 6.06 

Fat 1 .54 

Carbohydrate 7.3 

Total calories 67 . 58 

YEAST BREAD 

} yeast cake ^ cup Hoyt's gum gluten flour 

J cup water \ cup vegetable gluten meal 

J teaspoon salt 

Mix the two flours and proceed as with the Hoyt's gum gluten bread. 

Composition and nutritive value 

grams 

Protein 40.2 

Fat 1.3 

Carbohydrate 32 . 2 

Total calories 301 .48 

ALMOND CAKE 

2 eggs 2 tablespoons Hoyt's gum gluten flour 

3 tablespoons finely ground almonds 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

1 grain saccharin 

Beat the whites of eggs. Fold in gradually the almonds and flour. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs; dissolve the saccharin in the lemon juice, 
add to yolks and fold into the whites. Bake in buttered cake pan in a 
slow oven (170°C. or 338° F.). 

Composition and nutritivr value 

grams 

Protein 20.9 

Fat 18.6 

Carbohydrate 9.82 

Total calories 290.68 

ALMOND MACAROONS 

1 egg white J grain saccharin 

3 tablespoons finely ground almonds 

Beat the egg white. Dissolve saccharin in one teaspoon of water, 
add to beaten egg white and fold in almond meal. Drop on buttered 
tin and bake in slow oven (170°C.). 



1916] THE USE OF DIABETIC FLOURS 141 

Composition and nutritive value 

P^t^^in 6.45 

f"at 7.84 

Carbohydrate 2 45 

Total calories ' ' ' jo^jg 

MUFFINS 

i ^86 1 tablespoon butter 

} cup water 3 tablespoons 20% gluten meal 

I saltspoon salt 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Sift dry ingredients, add melted butter, beaten egg, and water. Keat 
thoroughly. Fill buttered muffin tins about two-thirds full and bake 
in a hot oven (230°C.) for twenty-five minutes. 

Number of muffins — two. 

Composition and nutritive value 

Protein n n-j 

^'^' 14.73 

Carbohydrate y o 

Total calories jq2 qs 

GRIDDLE CAKES 

* *^Sg \ saltspoon salt 

i cup buttermilk ^ cup iloyt's gum gluten flour 

\ teaspoon soda 

MLx dry ingredients, add beaten egg and buttermilk. Bake on a well 
greased griddle. 

Number of cakes — six. 

Composition and nutritive value 

grams 

Protem 24 87 

Fat 3.37 

Carbohydrate 36 1 5 

Total calories 274 4 

YEAST BREAD 

} yeast cake } teaspoon salt 

J cup water 1 cup Hoyt's gum gluten flour 

Mix the yeast in a small amount of warm water and add to the other 
ingredients. Mix to a stiff dough. Knead thoroughly, using enough 
flour to keep it from sticking to the board. Place the dough in a pan 
to rise. When it has risen to about twice its size, knead again, form 



142 THE jounNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

into a loaf and let it rise in the baking pan, until it has doubled its bulk. 
Bake in hot oven (230°C.) for forty-iive minutes. 
Number of loaves — one. 

Composition and tiutritive value 

grams 

Protein 35 .0 

Fat 1.8 

Carbohydrate 59.0 

Total calories 392 .2 

MUFFINS 

J egg 7 tablespoons soja bean meal 

J cup water 1 tablespoon butter 

i saltspoon salt 1 teaspoon baking powder 

MLx dry ingredients, add melted butter, beaten egg and water. Beat 
thoroughly. Bake in well buttered muflfm tins in a hot oven (230°C.) 
for twenty-five minutes. 

Number of muffins — two. 

Composition and nutritive oolue 

trams 

Protein 14.49 

Fat 19.39 

Carbohydrate 7 . 82 

Total calories 263 .95 

MUFFINS 

i egg 1 tablespoon butter 

\ cup water 3 tablespoons Protosoy flour 

i saltspoon salt 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Add melted butter, beaten egg, and water to dry ingredients. Bake 
in well buttered muffin tins in a hot oven (230°C.) for twenty-five min- 
utes. 

Number of muffins — two. 

Composition and nutritive value 

trami 

Protein 8 . 58 

Fat 16.52 

Carbohydrate 3.9 

ToUl calories 198.6 

MUFFINS 

J egg 1 tablespoon butter 

J cup water i\ tablespoons vegetable gluten meal 

J saltspoon salt 1 teaspoon baking jxiwdcr 



1916] 



THE USE OF DIABETIC FLOURS 



143 



Mix dry ingredients . Add melted butter, beaten egg and water. 
Beat thoroughly and bake in a hot oven (230°C.) for twenty-five min- 
utes. 

Number of muffins — two. 

Composition and nutrilive value 

trawu 

Protein 20.83 

Fat 13.69 

Carbohydrates 2 .06 

Total calories 214.7 



MUFFINS 



I egg 

5 tablespoons water 

\ saltspoon salt 



1 tablespoon butter 

4 tablespoons lentil brosia 

1 teaspoon baking powder 



Mix dry ingredients. Add melted butter, beaten egg and water. 
Bake in a hot oven (230°C.) for twenty-five minutes. 
Number of muffins — two. 



Composition and nutritive value 



Protein. 



gramt 

8.83 



Fat 13.36 

Carbohydrate 16.8 

Total calories 222.7 

These recipes represent only a few of the possible combinations for 
diabetic flours. They will, it is believed, offer suggestions as to the way 
in which these as well as others may be used. 

In order that the nutritive value of other recipes may be determined 
the following table showing the nutritive value of one cup of the various 
flours is given.® 

' Nutritive value of the diabetic flours 



Hoyt's gum gluten flour 

Twenty per cent gluten meal. 

Soja bean meal 

Vegetable gluten meal 

Protosoy soy flour 

Lentil brosia 



B 



cup 

1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 



grami 

113 (4oz.) 
78 (2.8 oz.) 
71 (2.5 oz.) 

113 (4oz.) 
85 (3 oz.) 

113 (4oz.) 



PROTEIN 


PAT 


r 


granti 


grams 


grams 


36 


1.80 


59 


19 


0.35 


43 


29 


14.00 


18 


91 


1.70 


11 


36 


17.00 


21 


28 


0.11 


67 



396 
251 
314 
423 
381 
381 



144 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

SEVEN TEXTILE FIBERS 

CHARLOTTE GIBBS BAKER 

With the development of manufactures, of science, and of the arts 
constant changes are being made in the textile industry. It no longer 
suffices to learn a few rules for choosing fabrics and then to rest content, 
depending on the clerk to help one buy. One must be continually on 
the lookout for new fabrics, even for the use of new fibers. The rapid 
changes of fashion, the demand for novelties on the part of the women 
who buy, and the effort of the manufacturer to supply plenty of new 
things to be bought, all play their part in bringing about the changes. 

Instead of being required to recognize four different fibers we must 
now know seven, and most of these in varying forms. There are, of 
course, other fibers which sometimes appear on the market, but for in- 
telUgent buying it will suffice to know ramie, jute, and artificial silk, be- 
sides cotton, wool, linen and silk. The first three fibers mentioned have 
been used only recently in sufficient quantity to attract our attention. 
Ramie and jute are not new, but are comparatively new in the American 
market in dress and furnishing materials; artificial, or as it is commonly 
called, fiber silk, is a new product of chemical investigation. 

In order that we may place these fibers in their proper relation to the 
four long tried ones it may be well to discuss all seven that we may have 
their characteristics freshly in mind. 

Cotton, most used of all fibers, deserves first mention. It, by its very 
cheapness, reaches the masses, and because of its adaptability to many 
purposes it serves rich and poor alike. A fiber so short that it would 
seem impossible to spin, a spiral twist acquired just before it leaves its 
pod saves it from oblivion. This twist gives it elasticity as well as tlie 
ability to be spun, and serves to identify it under the high power micro- 
scope. The shortness of the fibers causes the thread to be fuzzy, and pre- 
vents the cloth from having a luster. When the thread is broken the 
end is also fuzzy. Cotton lends itself to combination with linen, silk 
anfl wool, and the clever manufacturer makes it exceedingly difficult to 
recognize the cheaper fiber. Merccrization, a process which transforms 
the ordinary cotton thread into a lustrous strand, which will take dye 
more readily, increases the usefulness of cotton tremendously, and is 
now so much used that we sometimes forget that it is not much more 
than a dozen years since mercerized cotton appeared commonly in our 
markets. 



1916] SEVEN TEXTILE FIBERS 145 

Wool in point of quantity belongs next to cotton, though in price 
there is a long distance between them. A scaly structure on the sur- 
face of wool, especially marked in sheep's wool, gives it virtues possessed 
by no other fiber. It is by reason of these scales that wool mats to- 
gether; that air is held in the spaces of a woolen garment; that it absorbs 
a great amount of moisture without seeming wet; characteristics which 
all have their value in clothing. Elasticity, strength and luster also are 
attributes of wool, and the kink, more or less conspicuous, aids in spin- 
ning and also in identifying the fiber. The finish given to the best grades 
of woolen cloth make them stand the weather better than other 
materials. 

There are a number of fibers commonly classed as wools which vary 
somewhat from sheep's wool. The more hair-like fibers from different 
goats and the camel do not possess the felting quality of wool, but on 
the other hand are more lustrous. Very attractive upholstery fabrics 
are made of goats' hair. Angora goat hair makes mohair as well as the 
various angora knitted fabrics. Camel's hair has a number of uses, 
and we are all more or less familiar with alpaca from the animal of that 
name. 

Wool fiber alone may be spun a second time. Loosely twisted threads 
such as those in knitted fabrics or worsted goods may be pulled to 
pieces and the fiber spun again, either alone or in combination with new 
wool or cotton, the product being known as shoddy. 

Silk, the fiber of luxury, has little in common with the others. A very 
long fiber reaching several hundred yards in length, it has no cellular 
structure; the surface is unbroken and therefore reflects light, thus giv- 
ing it a high luster. Its great abihty to absorb dyes as well as mineral 
salts, gums and other substances, makes it possible to increase the 
weight enormously; thus the manufacturer may adulterate to such an 
extent that the price is greatly reduced. Our entire dependence on for- 
eign markets for the raw fiber used in manufacturing domestic silks is 
due to the large amount of hand labor required in raising the worm and 
in reeHng the silk from the cocoons. This labor must be both skilled 
and cheap, a combination not found in this country. 

In reeling silk from the cocoons a certain amount of short uneven fiber 
is left. This product is not wasted, but after being thoroughly cleaned 
of the gum which coats it, is carded and spun, as cotton or wool is spun. 
Spun silk, as it is commonly called, lacks the luster of silk reeled in long 
threads from the cocoon, and is somewhat fuzzy. This silk is used for 



146 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (March 

the backs of satins, satiny silks, velvets, and for cheap grade silks; in 
wearing quality it compares quite favorably with reeled silk, but lacks 
its beauty. 

Pongee is another variety of silk. Certain silk worms grow wild, and 
feed upon oaks and other trees. The silk produced by them is darker 
in color, is more gummy and not as perfect as that produced by the 
carefully cultivated worm fed only on the leaf of the white mulberry 
tree. The gum of this silk is not easily removed, and the silk cannot be 
reeled in long threads, therefore the fiber lacks luster and the thread is 
comparable to spun silk in its structure. 

For years chemists of America and Europe have endeavored to make 
a fiber which would compare favorably with silk. A number of so-called 
artificial silks have been made s>'Tithetically, but each has lacked some 
desired characteristic. One has not withstood moisture, another lacked 
strength, a third was not sufiiciently pHable, and so on. It is only quite 
recently that a satisfactory fiber, which can be manufactured at a rea- 
sonable price, has been developed. The artificial silk now commonly 
found on the market is a collodion like substance, made from cotton or 
wood fiber, put through capillary tubes, hardened in the air and so treated 
that it will withstand moisture. This fiber may be manufactured at a 
cost below that of pure silk, and has the promise of a great future. 

Linen, with a much longer fiber than cotton, exposes a smooth surface 
to the light and so produces a lustrous thread. Since the fibers are long 
there are fewer ends on the surface of the thread, and cloth woven from 
it soils less quickly than cotton. Straight, non-elastic, when spun and 
woven the cloth is tough and leathery, particularly when the satin weave 
is used as in table linen. Through the ages Hnen has been used in re- 
ligious rites, where absolute cleanliness is desired, and purple and fine 
linen for long were symbols of nobility. Though now often replaced by 
cotton, for many purposes linen is more suitable. 

Ramie, a vegetable fiber of antiquity, has until very recently, been 
used almost exclusively in India, China and Japan. A highly lustrous 
fiber, in this respect surpassing linen, and very white, its use has been 
limited by the difficulty with which the fiber is removed from the sur- 
rounding woody tissue. Ramie has been used in combination witli silk 
and cotton, its luster making it hard to distinguish when woven with silk, 
and adding richness when combined with cotton. Japanese and Chinese 
embroideries on this material have been common in our markets for some 
years, but only recently have wc had the material called ramie linen, by 



1916] THE FEEDING OF CHILDREN 147 

the piece. As methods for producing the fiber are improved we may 
expect more of it to appear on the market, and the shortage of European 
linen due to the war may give an impetus to the importation of ramie 
from the orient. 

Jute, another vegetable fiber, is familiar to most of us in sacking, 
twine, and door mats, but we do not expect to find it in finer materials. 
The natural color of this fiber is somewhat darker than linen color, it 
is harsh and coarse, yet is has considerable luster. In burlap we find 
the fiber used alone, while in monk's cloth it is combined with cotton in 
a heavy material. In its natural color it adds a pleasing tone to a 
more denim-like cotton and jute fabric, particularly when the cotton 
is in soft tones. 

From their very nature then, each of the seven fibers is well suited to 
some use or uses, and with them all we get a great variety of materials. 
Because of the constant demand for new fabrics, and the demand for 
cheap fabrics, the manufacturer and the designer are kept constantly on 
the alert for new methods of spinning, weaving, combining and treating 
these fibers. Each season brings new materials and old materials slightly 
disguised and bearing a new name. The woman who would buy wisely 
must also be alert, and must receive the new materials with an open mind, 
considering carefully which are worth buying and which have as their 
only recommendation the fact that they are novel. A discussion of the 
fabrics themselves will be left to other papers that are to follow this. 

THE FEEDING OF CHILDREN 

The attention of those who have to do with the feeding of children is 
called to the article in this number by Dr. E. B. Forbes, particularly 
to pages 126, 127, and 128. While part of this article is technical, it 
is thoroughly interesting, and much of it is in a form that can be applied 
directly to practical problems. The force of the last sentences in regard 
to our possible need of knowledge should appeal to every one. 

Are there not mothers or housekeepers who have questions to ask 
in regard to diet? Miss Amy Daniels, of the University of Wisconsin, 
has been appointed chairman of a committee to answer such questions. 
Miss Daniels has had much experience, hospital and otherwise, with the 
feeding of babies. She has been able to give expert advice in many 
homes. Questions addressed to her will be published and answered in 
the Journal. 



EDITORIALS 

"Bogies." — One of the vivid memories of my childhood is the re- 
lating by an honored guest of a story of his own childhood experience. 
He was warned never to go down a certain back staircase in his home, 
because there were 'bogies" under the stairs. For some months he 
avoided the staircase religiously until one day he awoke to the realiz- 
ation of the fact that there were no "bogies." Then he rushed down 
and fell from top to bottom. If he had been told the real reason for the 
prohibition, that the staircase was a crooked and dangerous one, he 
might have gone carefully and avoided the fall from which a false reason 
did not save him. 

I wonder if sometimes we do not pursue a similar method in our 
teaching and writing. 

I quote from a recently published article written for housekeepers by 
a woman of training and experience : 

"As a result you see dishes washed in greasy, slimy water, with 
particles of food floating on the surface of the dishpan. This is most 
insanitary, and is a splendid thriving ground for all the obnoxious and 
disease-producing bacteria. " 

We have no desire to defend dirty dish water. It is wholly undesir- 
able and inexcusable and cannot produce clean dishes. One of the 
objections to some dishwashing machines lies in the fact that they use 
the same water over and over again. The woman who uses dirty 
dishwater will probably offend in still more important ways. Yet the 
reason given is absurd. The grease and particles of food are after all 
simply the waste from the meal just eaten, and the dish water will 
certainly not remain in the pan long enough to breed disease-producing 
or any other bacteria. 

Ihis is only an illustration of the way in which attention may be 
diverted from truly dangerous practices that exist in many supposedly 
clean households. 

We need to tell the truth about the bactcriolog}' of the kitchen. 
We need to explain the difTcrcnce between unsightly, disagreeable, even 
repellant dirt, and dangerous dirt. 
148 



1916] EDITORIALS 149 

We should go further, and in our whole management of the household 
and in our teaching in regard to it we should distinguish between aes- 
thetic and sanitary cleanliness. Both are desirable, but one is essential. 

There are times in almost every one's life when the former should be 
neglected. 

The reasons for cleanliness He in common decency, in safety, and in 
beauty. Let us not confuse the issues. 

Practice Versus Preaching. In a similar way we often, in our 
teaching, present standards that ought not to be maintained under 
home conditions, instead of emphasizing the underljing principles, 
and showing how these may be applied in varying circumstances. 

A lecturer at Chautauqua one summer said that all bedding, including 
mattresses, should be taken out of doors and hung on the line every day. 
The housewife herself should do this if no one else was available. 
One wondered if she had considered the possibilities of a fourth floor 
apartment. 

A teacher, many of v/hose pupils lived in four or even two room 
flats, taught most carefully that all the bedclothes must be taken from 
the bed each morning and spread upon chairs to air. It was impossible 
under the conditions to follow her directions and the beds were not aired. 

Some of us beheve too that even in well-to-do households children should 
share in the daily tasks and that it is more important for the child to 
make his own bed than to carry out directions that would prevent this. 

A recent text-book says that the refrigerator must be thoroughly 
washed in a washing soda solution each day. Of course if one is careless 
and upsets the milk the damage must be repaired; but even observing 
the old adage that "ladies and gentlemen" use cleansing processes 
"not to get clean but to keep clean, " it would seem that time might be 
better spent than in washing daily a properly kept and well constructed 
refrigerator. Why not teach how to save time by care in arranging 
and handling the materials stored there? 

Another book suggests that dishes after being soaked in cold water 
be allowed to stand fifteen minutes in hot soapy water. One wonders 
how much time ought to be given in the ordinary household to such 
tasks. 

In a high school where nearly all the girls came from homes of very 
moderate means these statements were made on the outline of work: 
"The dinner napkin should be a yard square; paper napkins should 



150 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

never be used in the home," with no recognition of the extra cost in money 
and labor involved in the use of the large napkin and of its imsuitability 
for the ordinary home, or of the fact that in many well ordered homes the 
despised paper napkin is welcomed at the breakfast table, during the 
season of summer fruits. 

Another high school teacher was not using sewing machines because 
"the best work is done by hand" so her pupils spent long hours sewing 
seams by hand, and doing other work that could be done satisfactorily 
on the machine in a tenth of the time. 

Perhaps these are exceptional cases, but there are too many of them. 

We should help the homemaker to spend less time, not more, on the 
care of her house by devising and teaching quick ways of work; by 
eliminating labor; by showing how high standards of true cleanliness 
may be maintained without forever cleaning; by emphasizing the fact 
that after all the home offers higher duties than the care of the house. 

We too often tithe "the mint and anise and cummin" and neglect 
" the weightier matters of the law. " 

The National Child Labor Committee reports that the Keating- 
Owen Federal Child Labor Bill (H. R. 8234) passed the House, Wednes- 
day, February 2, 1916, by a majority of 337 to 46. The bill is now in 
the Senate before the Committee on Interstate Commerce. A letter or 
telegram to each member of the Committee and to the two Senators 
from your own state should be sent at once. Many Senators have 
expressed a desire to know what their constituents want. Let your 
Senators know now. 

Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce: Francis G. Newlands, Chair- 
man; Ellison D. Smith, Henry L. Myers, Willard Saulsbury, James 
Hamilton Lewis, Moses E. Clapp, Oscar W. Underwood, Henry F. Lip- 
pitt, Robert M. LaFollette, Atlce Pomerene, Joseph T. Robinson, Wil- 
liam H. Thompson, Thomas P. Gore, Albert B. Cummins, George T 
Oliver, Charles E. Townsend, Miles Poindexter. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
Journal of Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 



The Art of Good Living. French Cookery 
from the I4lh to the 20lh Century. {L'Art 
du Bien Manger. La Cuisine Franqaise 
du XIV^ au XX" Siicle.) Compiled 
and edited by E. Richardin. Paris, 
1914, 5th ed., enl., pp. xlvi+9-i6, pis. 27, 
figs. 113. 

The closely printed title page of this 
volume gives some indication of the variety 
of material which it offers and of the distin- 
guished names which appear in the list of 
contributors. The 2000 or more recipes 
which take up the greater part of the volume 
are derived from all kinds of sources — some 
copied from old manuscript, some taken 
down from the landlords of out-of-the-way 
inns where a specially liked dish had reached 
perfection, some contributed by famous 
chefs, and still others contributed by such 
well-known writers as the brothers Mar- 
gueritte, " Gyp," Jules Claretie, etc. Among 
the contributions from the literary and ar- 
tistic world the reader will not readily forget 
Theuriet's enthusiastic description of morel 
mushrooms, or Coquelin Cadet's eulogy of 
prune pudding, while he delights to find an 
old favorite in Balzac's disquisition on coffee 
as a literary stimulant. Scattered among 
the recipes are accounts of famous Parisian 
dining clubs, of the gastronomic adventures 
of celebrities on their travels, and of the 
origin of well-known dishes. One of the 
most interesting and valuable sections is 
that by the editor, entitled "The Epicures' 
Geography of France," in which the charac- 
teristic food materials and dishes of the dif- 
ferent parts of the country are briefly de- 
scribed. The cuts include some clever 
sketches illustrating the aphorisms of Brillat- 
Savarin and reproductions of old pictures 



representing the preparing and ser\'ing of 
food at different periods. It must be con- 
fessed that these reproductions might easily 
have been made to represent their theme 
more systematically and completely. In 
fact, a little less haphazard arrangement 
would add to the value of the whole book, 
but these are minor points. The main 
thing is that the volume is a mine of inter- 
esting gastronomic information, for the 
most part charmingly presented. 

How to Cook and Why. By Elizabeth 
CoNDiT and Jessie A. Long. New 
York: Harper and Brothers, 1914, pp. 249. 
$1. By mail of the Journal, $1.10. 

The aim of this little book, according to 
the editor's introduction, is to be a "first 
aid" or sort of middleman between the lab- 
oratory of science and the kitchen of the 
school or home. 

Every such effort is likely to be criticised 
by those for whom it is intended as "too 
scientific," while those whose researches are 
interpreted in simple language may find 
errors in facts. Yet such a book as this 
cannot fail to be helpful in extending the 
knowledge of what has already been discov- 
ered and verified regarding a more rational 
choice and preparation of foods. 

Some sweeping statements are made, 
such as: "Underdone bread is the cause of 
more than half the dyspepsia in the land." 
(Page 39.) 

There are a few inaccuracies or mislead- 
ing statements, such as: "Macaroni, rice, 
com meal, carrots, offer practically the 
same material [as potatoes] at less cost." 
(Page 92.) 

151 



152 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



"May" should be more often substituted 
for "will," as for example in the statement 
on page 122: Milk "from tuberculous cows 
■will carry the white plague to those drinking 
it uncooked." 

A few of the directions, particularly in the 
care of food, set a difiicult standard for the 
ordinary housekeeper to follow. 

Yet the book is suggestive, helpful and 
well worth while. More paragraphing 
would have made it somewhat easier to read. 

A Study of Foods. By Ruth A. Waddall 
and Edna N. White. New York: Ginn 
and Company, 1914, pp. 174. $0.70. 
By mail of the Journal, S0.78. 

Thorough preparatory training, and some 
years of experience in teaching and direct- 
ing Home Economics in state universities, 
has admirably fitted these authors to make 
a useful book for the class room. 

While the book makes little original con- 
tribution to the subject it has the distinct 
advantage of telling the story of the foods in 
fewer words than many other textbooks. 
Moreover the authors quote fairly and give 
credit to their sources of information, and 
the references are well chosen. 

Like most recent textbooks on Home 
Economics, this owes much to the work of the 
U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

The illustrations on pages 116-119 are 
excellent; appendix II brings the fine photo- 
graphs of meat, hitherto available only 
through a state bulletin, within reach of 
every one. 

The general plan and arrangement of the 
book will make it of service not only for 
teachers and pupils, but for clubs and for the 
housekeeper. 

Bodily Changes in Pain, Hunger, Fear, 
and Rage. By W. B. Cannon. New 
York and London: D. Appleton and Com- 
pany, 1915, pp. xiii-|-311, figs. 39. 

The chapters of this book on the effect of 
the emotions on digestion and the nature of 
hunger arc of s()ccial interest to students of 
nutrition. 



Principles of Food Preparation. By Mary 
D. Chambers. Boston: Boston Cooking 
School Magazine Company, 1914, pp. 251. 
$1. By mail of the Journal, $1.09. 

In the Principles of Food Preparation, 
Mrs. Chambers does not definitely state 
for whom the book was designed. One 
may infer, however, that it is intended in 
part for the high school, for in the intro- 
duction the statement is made that "simple 
chemical tests and rough analyses of foods 
are included in most of the chapters, since 
in many of the smaller high schools and 
colleges this work is in charge of the teacher 
of Household Science." 

The Topics for Study or Discussion and 
the Questions found in this book are very 
good for high school use. They are com- 
prehensive and require much thought on 
the part of the pupils. The recipes on the 
whole are good. The work as planned gives 
a great deal of practice in the various pro- 
cesses of cooking, many combinations and 
much variety. 

The charts of the composition of foods are 
accurate and the material wisely selected. 

The method of procedure employed fails 
at two points. First, the students have 
not a sufficient basis in science or enough 
training in experimental methods to obtain 
results accurate enough to draw correct 
inferences. The author makes this state- 
ment: "Remember that the cooking of 
each dish in perfection is always necessary 
in order to make the correct inferences which 
is the object of the lesson. " 

Second, the experiments often do not deal 
with fundamental problems of food. For 
example, the effect of salt on cellulose is 
studied. Definite amounts of salt should be 
used to give accurate results. Further, very 
little is known of the cflect of salt on cel- 
lulose, since the only published work on this 
subject is that of II. L. Ilucnink and Dr. 
Edward Bartow (1914). Such experiments 
as those showing the effect of sugar on 
cellulose, the effect of potassium salts on 
cheese, that salt in weak solution dissolves 
globulin, thai water dissolves one-third 
its volume of salt, arc unim|K)rtant and 



1916] 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



153 



secondary in comparison with the principles 
to be taught. 

As to the contents of this book, there 
seems to be no logical order or sequence of 
lessons. The study of potato and rice is 
taken up in the second chapter followed by 
green vegetables and the study of sugar. 
This is followed by a number of chapters 
on a group of protein foods; a chapter on 
fat; cereals and other starchy foods; flour 
mixtures and leavens. In chapter four the 
effect of sugar on cellulose is taken up and 
then again in chapter eighteen sugar is 
studied. The material is not organized 
so that the book can be handled easily by 
the average high school girl, yet many teach 
ers find the book suggestive and helpful. 

Some of the references, such as Jordan, 
Sherman, and Lusk, given at the end of 
each chapter, are almost too advanced for 
high school pupils, while Church, Knight 
and Hutchison are hardly considered stand- 
ard at the present time. 

Physiological Chemistry. By Albert P. 
Mathews. New York: William Wood 
and Company, 1915, pp. 1040. $4.25. 

This is a unique textbook — a physiologi- 
cal chemistry that makes interesting reading 
for the student. The encyclopedic charac- 
ter of most of such textbooks renders them 
less desirable for student use than a better 
constructed book that contains less material. 

Professor Mathews' book is, however, not 
deficient in material. The first part con- 
tains a discussion of the chemical properties 
of the proteins, carbohydrates and lipins 
(fats) . In the second part is given the chem- 
istry of the mechanism of body changes. 
Laboratory methods are described in the 
third part. 

Professor Mathews has laid particular em- 
phasis on the application of physical chemis- 
try to physiological processes and has 
grouped the fundamental principles in an 
excellent chapter on The Physical Chem- 
istry of Protoplasm. The part on oxida- 
tion is the only one which does not appear 
satisfactory, owing to a lack of illustrative 
material. 



The chapters on the metabolism of carbo- 
hydrates and of proteins are particularly to 
be commended to those interested in food 
and nutrition. 

A Review of the Literature of Phosphorus 
Compounds in Animal Metabolism. By 
E. B. Forbes and M. Helen Keith. 
Ohio Sta. Tech. Bui. 5, 1914, pp. 748. 

This valuable digest of literature on phos- 
phorus metabolism will prove of great use to 
teachers and students of nutrition. The 
material is grouped in a number of parts, 
including Chemistry of Organic Compounds 
of Phosphorus, The Phosphorus of Foods, 
The Phosphorus of Animal Bodies and 
Products, Normal Phosphorus Metabolism, 
and Phosphorus Metabolism in Disease. 

A Text-book of Military Hygiene and Sani- 
tation. By F. R. Keeper. Philadel- 
phia and London: W. B. Sanders Com- 
pany, 1914, pp. 305+8, figs. 47. $1.50. 

Though written for the special purpose of 
stating clearly and concisely the essentials of 
hygiene and sanitation as they concern the 
soldier, this volume has much in it which is 
of general interest and which is worthy of 
the attention of teachers of Home 
Economics. 

The great problem of the army hygienist 
is to keep the soldier in good health, in good 
condition, and fit. With him things which 
the theorist may advise do not readily take 
the place of experience. So, in such a book 
as this, written by a man of wide knowledge 
of the subject (the author is lieutenant- 
colonel in the United States Army Medical 
Corps and professor of military hygiene at 
the United States Military Academy), one 
finds much about food, clothing, garbage 
disposal, camp hygiene, and similar matters 
which have had to meet the test of experi- 
ence under known conditions and careful 
observation. 

.An idea of the scope of the book may be 
gained from the chapter headings, some of 
which are: Physical training, preventable dis- 
eases, clothing, water supply, foods and their 
preparation, and the disposal of wastes. 



154 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



Exercise in Education and Medicine. By 
R. T. McKenzie. Philadelphia and 
London: W. B. Saunders Company, 1915, 
2 ed., pp. 585, figs. 478. S4. 

This book contains much information of 
interest and value to teachers and students 
of Home Economics. 

The place of physical exercise in education 
is the subject of the first part of this book. 
The effects of physical exercise upon the 
muscles, lungs, heart, nervous system, and 
their relation to nutrition and excretion 
are considered at length. One chapter 
of the book deals with age, sex, and occupa- 
tion as factors which influence the kind and 
degree of physical exercise. Other chapters 
are devoted to a history of the development 
and the essential features of the German, 
Swedish, and French systems of physical 
training or gymnastics. A great deal of 
interesting and useful information is given 
regarding the opportunities for physical 
education as offered by the Young Men's 
Christian Association, Boys and Girls 
Camps, and the Boy Scout and Camp-fire 
Girls Organizations. Municipal play-grounds, 
gymnasia, and public baths are also dis- 
cussed extensively and a number of model 
institutions are described somewhat in 
detail. The development and present place 
held by physical education and athletics 
for men and women in secondary schools, 
colleges, and universities are taken up and 
the systems employed in a number of such 
institutions are described. 

The second part of the book takes up in a 
conservative manner the application of 
physical exercises to medicine; especially 
considering their value in the treatment 
of physical deformities like incorrect posture, 
club foot, and scoliosis. The value of 
massage and exercises in the treatment of 
respiratory diseases, diseases of circulation, 
and constipation is also considered. The 
exercises recommended for ihc treatment of 
the various diseases are described in detail, 
specific directions for performing the exer- 
cises being given and these well illustrated 
by figures. The great number of illustra- 
tions throughout the whole book add tu its 
value. 



Civilization and Health. By Woods Hdtch- 
rNSON, M.D. Boston and New York: 
Houghton Mifflin Company, 1914, pp. 341 
+ 14. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, 
$1.61. 

It is unfortunate that a popular medical 
writer with such facilities of expression and 
versatility in interest does not make sure 
that his statements are such that they are 
also always reliable. The desire to please 
the reader at times leads to statements that 
are not literally true. In order to bring 
home a fact hyperbole often takes the place 
of correct statement. 

Figuratively speaking, there may be 
some remote truth in the following state- 
ment, but it is hardly to be regarded as a 
thoughtful presentation in terms of relative 
values. "A fly in a house is as dangerous 
as a rattlesnake, filthy as a louse and as 
disgraceful as a bedbug. " 

To illustrate 'nexactness of statement, 
we need but cull a few examples. "About 
thirty years ago we began to get mortality 
records which really covered all the popu- 
lation and were reasonably accurate and 
reliable. " This is hardly correct in view of 
the fact that in 1880 the mortality statistics 
were based on only 17 per cent of the popu- 
lation and in 1910 only 58.3 per cent of the 
population which resided in the registration 
area. 

Similarly, the statement appears "Bright's 
disease increased in ten years 110 per cent." 
The facts: in 1900 the death rate of Bright's 
disease was 89 and in 1913 it was 102, thus 
showing in 13 years an increase of only 14.9 
per cent. 

As is usual with him, the author in this 
work has presented a vast amount of valu- 
able and thought-provoking substance 
dressed in catchy litcrarj- phraseology and 
appealing to all types of readers. The 
variation in content extends from a dis- 
cussion of The Diseases of Civilization 
to The Problems of Women in Public Life, 
The Vacation Habit and Crimes Against 
the Cow. Despite its variations from 
accuracy, thf volume has a distinct place 
in the |)opular literature of today dealing 
with the problems of health. 



1916] 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



155 



America's Gifts to the Old World. A Pa- 
geant or Masque for Home Economics 
Students. By Helen W. Atwater and 
C. F. Lan'GWOrthy. a publication for 
the Richards Memorial Fund. Balti- 
more: American Home Economics As- 
sociation, 1915, pp. vii -f 20. $0.50, 
5 or more copies, $0.35 each. All rights 
reserved. 

The pageant, in the modem use of the 
term, has in the last five years become a 
very popular form of dramatic representa- 
tion. Although the term originally meant 
the platform on which any form of "show" 
was given, it came to have the settled mean- 
ing of a costumed procession, and always 
with the implication of beauty of color and 
texture. The modern pageant has a cer- 
tain number of lines, verses, or songs to 
be spoken or sung, but this is always in 
a way the minor part of the pageant. 

There is never one important personage, 
or a small group of such, but a large num- 
ber of people take part, each doing a com- 
paratively small part. It is this fact that 
has made the pageant such an admirable 
form of community presentation, and it is 
this that makes it so admirable for schools. 
Every citizen, every child, can and should 
take part. 

The pageant prepared by Miss Atwater 
and Dr. Langworthy, and given by them 
to the Richards Memorial Fund, is an en- 
tirely delightful piece of work. The free 
verse in which the most of it is written has 
a rhythm that carries it smoothly and 
that gives the chance for simple poetical 
expression without the twisting of words 
or sentences into a form not easily "under- 
standed of the people." Songs in rhyme 
vary the presentation. 

There is more of the spoken word than in 
many pageants, but no one character has 50 
lines, altogether. The introduction offers 
suggestions as to the dances and processions, 
but these can of course be greatly varied, 
by the school giving the pageant, accord- 
ing to the age of the actors and the place 
of presentation. 

The general theme is so clearly stated 



in the title that it at once calls up the vision 
of America presenting to Asia, Africa and 
Europe, Corn, Wild Rice, Beans, Pumpkin, 
Squash, Potato, Tomato and their brothers 
and sisters. What could be lovelier or 
simpler to arrange than a dance of the 
waving corn? Or more amusing than one 
of a flowering potato field? It is perhaps 
not quite clear from the introduction that 
at the end there should be a pageant proces- 
sion to include everyone who has shared the 
pageant. In an elementary or high school 
this might well be marched to the music 
of national songs sung by the spectators. 

The possibilities of beautiful, yet simply 
made, costume, are almost endless. The 
domestic art classes would find a wonder- 
ful opportunity here. If children of ele- 
mentary school grade give the pageant — 
as they could delightfully — the speeches 
might need a little shortening, but most 
schools would find it possible to give the 
pageant as written. High school children 
would find no difficulties at all, while stu- 
dents in normal schools and colleges would 
find it entirely adequate for them. Where- 
ever there are boy or men students in the 
same school, they should of course be an 
integral part of the presentation. 

Aside from the beauty of the pageant, 
and the value of the community effort, 
the educational value of the information 
contained should not be forgotten. The 
names of the authors guarantee the accu- 
racy of this, and each reading makes one 
realize afresh the careful research and ob- 
servation that has furnished adjective and 
epithet. 

The school that has Home Economics 
work and fails to give this pageant misses 
a wonderful opportunity, while the school 
so unfortunate as not to have such work 
will find this an admirable initial effort. 

Eduard Merike's Ilaushaltungsbuch, von 
W. E. Windigg. Stuttgart: Stecker u. 
Schroder. 

This book presents photographic repro- 
duction of some 34 pages from the household 
expense book of the German poet Merike 



156 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

with an introduction of 26 pages by Herr expenses, it creates an "atmosphere" which 
Windigg. It may be mentioned here, not helps carry such a subject in the school 
forany light it throws on household accounts room, while to the historical student it 
or expenditures, but because of the interest would of course yield valuable facts. Mer- 
it lends to the study of such accounts. Like ike's account book is unique in that the 
the "Privy Purse of the Princess Mary" margins of the pages are illustrated by 
and other reprints of personal or household lively pen sketches. 

BOOKS RECEIVED 

Mary at the Farm and Book of Recipes Compiled During II er Visit Among the "Pennsylvania 
Germans." By Edith M. Thomas, Author and Publisher, Quakertown, Pa., 1915, pp. 
440, pis. 20, figs. 30. $2.25. By mail of the Journal, $2.45. Orders for this book 
should be sent direct to the author or to the Journax and not to John Hartenstine or 
Strawbridge and Clothier as given in the review in the February Journat. 

Wanted: A Young Woman to Do Housework. By C. Helene Barker. New York: Moffat 
Yard and Company, 1915, pp. 127. $1.00. By mail of the Journal, $1.06. 

Woman in Science. By H. J. Mozans. New York: D. Appleton and Company, 1913, pp. 
452. S2.50. By mail of the Journal, $2.70. 

The Work of Our Hands: A Study of Occupations for Invalids. By Herbert J. Hall and 
Mertice M. C. Buck. New York: Moffat, Yard and Company, 1915, pp. 211. $1.50. 
By mail of the Journal, $1.60. 

PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

The Baby's Rights. A list of some of the best books for mothers and nurses. Compiled 
by the Free Public Library of Newark, N. J. White Plains, N. Y.: The H. W. Wilson 
Company, 1915. $0.10. Orders of $1.00 or over, 50% discount. 

Farm Women's Clubs. By Nell M. Barnett. MorgantowTi, W. Va.: Extension Division 
of College of Agriculture, West Virginia University, June 1914, pp. 15. (West Va. Farm 
Bulletin, vol. 1, no. 7). 

Food for the Family. By Nell M. Barnett. West Virginia Farm Bulletin, vol. 1, no. 3, 
December, 1914, pp. 16. 

Handbook for the Use of Ilomemaker's Clubs ^*t the Province of Quebec [Canada]. Quebec, 
Canada: Macdonald College and Department of Agriculture, Quebec, 1914, pp. 35. 

Housing Betterment. New York: National Housing .Association. Vol. 4, no. 2, pp. 39. 
June, 1915. $0.05. 

The Organization of a Rural Community. By T. N. Carver. Washington, D. C: Govern- 
ment Printing OfTice, 1915, pp. 58. (From the yearbook of the Dept. of .\gr. 1914, 
Y. B. Separate 632.) 

The Practical Use of Disinfectants. By H. E. Hasseltine. Washington, D. C: Go\em- 
ment Printing Office, 1915, pp. 14. $0.05. Supt. of Documents. (U. S. Public Health 
Service Reprint no. 287 from Pub. Health Reports July 9, 1915.) 

The Rural School System of Minnesota: A Study in School Efficiency. By H. W. FoRht. 
Washington, D. C: Government Printing Ofl'ice, 1915, pp. 56. $0.20. Suj)l. of Doc- 
uments. (U. S. Bureau of Education Bulletin no. 20, whole number 647.) 

Saving Fuel in Heating a House. By L. P. Breckinridge and S. B. Flagg. Washington, 
D. C: Government Printing Office, 1915, pp. 35. $0.05. Supt. of Documents. (Dcpt. 
of the Interior, Bureau of Mines, Technical Paper 97.) 

Saving Time and Strength in Housekeeping. By Nell M. Barnett. Morgantown, W. Va.: 
Extension Dcpt. of College of Agriculture, West Virginia University, 1915, pp. 8. (Cir- 
cular 8, March 1915.) 



1916] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 157 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 
Foods and Cookery 

Studies of Poultry From the Farm to the Consumer. Mary E. Pennington, U. S. Dept. 
Agr. Bur. Chem. Circ. 64 (1915), pp. 42, figs. 9: Reprint. 

Soy Bean Milk. Epicure, 21 (1914), no. 250, pp. 157, 158. 

Note on Vinegar. J. S. Jamieson, Analyst, 40 (1915) no. 468, pp. 106, 107. 

Food Inspection and Analysis and Other Topics. E. F. Ladd and Alma K. Johnson, 
North Dakota Sta. Spec. Bui., 3 (1915), no. 19, pp. 305-336. 

Better Breads by Means of Natural Lactic Acid. A VVahl, Jour. Itidus. and Engin. 
Chem., 7 (1915), no. 9, pp. 773-775. The quality of bread was improved by the addition 
to the dough of lactic acid produced by Bacillus delbruecki (an organism found in germinated 
barley). 

Sprouted Wheat. R. Harcourt, Canad. Miller and Cerealist, 7 (1915), no. 10, pp. 239- 
246. Baking tests are reported to determine the usefulness of sprouted wheat. 

Honey as a Food. B. C. Aston, Jour. Agr. [New Zeal.], 11 (1915), no. 1, pp. 48-52, 
fig. 1. 

A Case of Fatal Poisoning by the American Water Hemlock. Pub. Health Bui. [Mass.]., 
2 (1915), no. 2, pp. 50-52, fig. 1. This plant is often mistaken for parsnips, artichokes, 
sweet cicely, horseradish, or other edible roots. 

Some Products of Hydrolysis of Gliadin, Lactalbumin, and the Protein of the Rice Kernel. 
T. B. Osborne, D. D. VanSlyke, C. S. Leavenworth, and M. Vinograd, Jour. Biol. Chem., 
22 (1915), no. 2, pp. 259-280. 

Twenty-ninth .-Vnnual Report of the Diary and Food Division. Ann. Rpt. Dairy and 
Food Div. Ohio, 29 (1914), pp. 175, figs. 7. 

Commercial Value of Flour. B. R. Jacobs, Canad. Miller and Cerealist, 7 (1915), no. 
10, pp. 245, 246. A score-card system is described for rating commercial flours. 

The Phosphoric Oxid Content of Maize Flour. J. McCrae, Jour. Hyg. [Cambridge], 14 
(1914), no. 3, pp. 395-398. 

Report of the Department of Food and Drugs Control, and Weights and Measures for the 
Period Ending December 31, 1914. Rpt. Dept. Food and Drugs Control, and Weights artd 
Measures, Nev., 1914, pp. 34. 

Atmospheric Conditions in Relation to Bread Making. J. E. Wihlfahrt, New York: 
The Fleischmann Company, 1915, pp. 15, figs. 4. 

Milling and Baking Qualities of Victorian Wheats. .\. E. V. Richardson, P. R. Scott, 
and F. G. B. Winslow, Jour. Dept. Agr. Victoria, 12 (1914), no. 11, pp. 668-675. 

Nutrition 

Calorimetric Observations on Man. J. S. MacDonald, F. A. DuflSeld, and K. Lucas, 
Rpt. Brit. Assoc. Adv. Sci., 84 (1914), pp. 238-241. 

Studies in Endogenous Uric Acid Metabolism. G. W. Raiziss, H. Dubin, and A. I. 
Ringer, Jour. Biol. Chem., 19 (1914), no. 4, pp. 473-485. 

Creatinin and Creatin in Starvation. G. Graham and E. P. Poulton, Jour. Physiol., 48 
(1914), no. 5, pp. liii, liv. 

Protein Minima for Maintenance. T. B. Osborne, L. B. Mendel, et al., Jour. Biol. 
Chem., 22 (1915), no. 2, pp. 241-257, fig. 1. 



158 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

Lipins in Nutrition. C. G. MacArthur and C. L. Luckett, Jour. Biol. C/icm., 20 (1915), 
no. 2, pp. 161-174, figs. 3. 

The Therapeutic Value of Organic Phosphorus Compounds. E. K. Marshall, Jr., Jour. 
Atner. Med. Assoc, 64 (1915), no. 7, pp. 573, 574. 

Whey in Infant-Feedint^. A. W. Bosworth, II. I. Bowdilch, and B. H. Ragle, Atner. 
Jour. Diseases Children, 9 (1915), no. 2, pp. 120-125. 

The Influence of Starch on Infant Digestion. T. S. Southworth, Jour. Amcr. Med. 
Assoc, 63 (1914), no. 16, pp. 1375-1377. 

The Influence of Lactose on the Metabolism of an Infant. F. B. Talbot and L. W. Hill, 
Atner. Jour. Diseases Children, 8 (1914), no. 3, pp. 218-227. 

Animal Calorimetry. VII, The Metabolism of a Dwarf. V. H. McCruddcr and G. 
Lusk, Jour. Biol. Chem., 13 (1913), no. 4, pp. 447-454. 

Animal Calorimetry. VIII, The Alleged Influence of the Adrenals on Diabetic Metabo- 
lism. G. Lusk and J. A. Riche, Arch. Inl. Med., 13 (1914), no. 5, pp. 673-681, fig. 1. 

Animal Calorimetry. IX, The Influence of Meat Ingestion on the Amino Acid Content 
of Blood and Muscle. Mary B. Wishart, Jour. Biol. Chem., 20 (1915), no. 4 pp. 535-537. 

Animal Calorimetry. X, The Rate at Which Ingested GlycocoU and Alanin are Me- 
tabolized. F. A. Csonka, Jour. Biol. Chetn., 20 (1915), no. 4, pp. 539-554, fig. 3. 

Animal Calorimetry. XI, An Investigation Into the Causes of the Specific Dynamic 
Action of the Foodstuflfs. G. Lusk and J. A. Riche, Jour. Biol. Chem., 20 (1915), no. 4, pp. 
555-617, pis. 15. 

Animal Calorimetry. XII, The Influence of the Ingestion of Fat. J. R. Murlin, G. 
Lusk, and J. A. Riche, Jour. Biol. Chem., 22 (1915), no. 1, pp. 15-29, figs. 3. 

The Influence of Food on Metabolism. G. Lusk, Jour. Biol. Chem., 20 (1915), no. 4, 
Proc, pp. viii-xvii. 

The Harmful Effect of a Vegetable Diet. C. Voegtlin, Amcr. Jour. Physiol., 36 (1915), 
no. 4, p. 367. 

Hygiene and Sanitation 

Some Engineering Problems in Ventilation. D. D. Kimball, Science, 41 (1915), no. 
1061, pp. 632-637. 

Bacteria in City, Country, and Indoor Air. W. W. Browne; Science, 42 (1915), no. 1080, 
p. 351. 

The Resistance of Pure Proteins to Bacterial Decomposition. Editorial, Jour. .Itner. 
Med. Assoc, 65 (1915), no. 3, p. 257. 

Experiments in the Destruction of Fly Larvae in Horse Manure. F. C. Cook, R. H. 
Hutchinson, and F. M. Scales, U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui. 118 (1914), pp. 26, pis. 4. 

Growth of Food Poisoning Bacilli in Meat. E. F. Sacqu6p6e, Cotnpl. Rend. Soc. Biol. 
[Paris], 75 (1913), no. 34. pp. 490-492. Abs. Expt. Sla. Record, 32 (1915), no. 6, p. 559. 
An experimental study of the growth of organisms of the Gartner tj'pe upon the surface 
of meat as well as of the rapidity with which they penetrated the interior of the meat. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



National Society for Ihe Promotion 
of Industrial Education. The ninth 
annual meeting was heid in Minneapolis, 
January 20-22. A survey of Minneapolis, 
financed by the city, had been made dur- 
ing the year for the purposes of industrial 
education, under the direction of the Na- 
tional Society for the Promotion of Industrial 
Education. The survey was a double one — 
of the educational facilities and of the in- 
dustries. A 500 page report gives the re- 
sults on paper, and by the time the meeting 
was held there were actual educational 
results of surprising magnitude, chiefly in 
the evening classes of the new Dunwoody 
Industrial Institute, where 1400 men en- 
gaged in industry are studying trade sub- 
jects for their advancement. 

The two days of the meeting had six 
sessions, so closely following each other that 
there was hardly time for meals, and some- 
times three meetings were being held at one 
time. Each session's program was crowded 
with papers, the attendance was large, and 
there was a general feeling of almost breath- 
less enthusiasm and vitality. 

For the first time at such a meeting, there 
was a large representation of Home Econom- 
ics workers. The president of the .\meri- 
can Home Economics Association, Miss 
Martha Van Rensselaer, was on the program 
of the first general session, and the secre- 
tary, Mrs. Norton, was also in attendance. 
One section session was given to the con- 
sideration of Home Economics work, at 
which Mrs. Mary S. Woolman presided and 
the speakers were Miss Abby L. !Marlatt, 
Miss Josephine Berry, Miss Anna Cooley, 
Miss Lilla Erich and Miss Carrie Wilkerson 
of the Minneapolis Public Schools, and 
Mrs. Hickok of Minneapolis. There was a 
special dinner for those interested in the 
women's work, at which Mrs. Woolman 



presided. After the close of the sessions 
Saturday the Minnesota Home Economics 
Association held the luncheon noted below. 

There was also an informal conference 
on the Smith-Hughes .\ct, when Mr. Lapp 
answered questions and received suggestions 
as to a wording that would define more 
clearly the Home Economics side of the work 
to be subsidized. 

In all the sessions where the subject came 
up, homemaking received recognition as 
vocational work of great importance. It 
was also brought out clearly, however, that 
girls cannot be trained for two vocations 
at one time and that the Home Economics 
work given in trade schools for girls was pre- 
vocational and a part of general education, 
and should be followed by more intensive 
training for the girl who wishes to change 
her vocation of dressmaking, power machine 
work or what not, for that of homemaking. 
It was evident that there is much to do in 
organizing Home Economics courses of the 
many different t\-pes needed, but also 
evident that in this work the Home Econom- 
ics teachers and supervisors would have 
the active and constructive cooperation of 
the women and men whose special interest 
is industrial education for girls and women. 

The Minneapolis Luncheon. The Min- 
nesota Home Economics Association, one of 
our affiliated societies — Mrs. Pearl Bailey 
Lyons, President — gave a delightful luncheon 
at the Hotel Leamington to the visiting 
members of the American Home Economics 
.Association. 

Comment upon the delicious character of 
the luncheon brought out the fact that Miss 
Lilla Erich, Supervisor of Domestic Science 
in the Minneapolis Schools, in addition to 
her other duties is director of the food de- 
partment of this family hotel. Her work 

159 



160 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



should forever disprove the truth of the old 
saying quoted by the first speaker at this 
luncheon — "He who can, does; he who 
can't, teaches." 

Mrs. Lyons introduced as speakers Miss 
Van Rensselaer, the President of the 
National Association, Mrs. Norton, Secre- 
tary, Miss Cooley of Teachers College, Miss 
Marlalt of the University of Wisconsin and 
Mrs. Woolman of Boston. One hundred 
twenty-nine from all parts of the state were 
present at the luncheon. 

Home Economics at the Pan-American 
Congress. The Second Pan-American Sci- 
entific Congress, held in Washington, D. C, 
from December 27, 1915 to January 8, 1916, 
in joint session with many scientific and 
other learned societies, provided much of 
interest for students of Home Economics, 
though the subject was not specifically 
mentioned on the program. It could hard- 
ly have escaped consideration for, accord- 
ing to an ofiicial report, the Congress "de- 
liberated upon practically every important 
subject in the range of human activity." 

Of matters of special interest to Home 
Economics workers, the following may be 
mentioned: Papers presented at the Public 
Health and Medical Science Section on 
The Chemical Nature of Vitamines, by 
R. W. Williams of the Bureau of Chemistry; 
on The Changing Features of the Food 
Problem, by Dr. Lafayette B. Mendel of 
Yale University; and on Housing of Wage 
Earners, Town and City Planning, Human 
Side of City Planning, Artificial Illumina- 
tion, and topics connected with the control 
of communicable diseases, by specialists of 
both North and South America. 

One of the sub-sections on Education, 
devoted to the education of women, was 
planned and presided over by Dean Sarah 
Louise Arnold of Simmons College. Some 
of the speakers and their subjects were: 
Miss Julia Lathrop of the Children's Bureau, 
on The Education of Women as Related 
to the Welfare of Children; Prof. Susan 
Kingsbury of Bryn Mawr, and Dr. 
Sophonisba Brcckcnridge of the University 



of Chicago, on The Education of Women 
as Measured in Civic and Social Relations; 
Dr. Helen Putnam, on The Weil-Being 
of Children as Determined by the I-Lduca- 
tion of Women. Miss Caroline L. Hunt 
spoke briefly presenting by title a paper on 
Work for Housekeepers in the Office of 
Home Economics, U. S. Department of 
Agriculture. 

An important feature of the Congress 
was the Women's Auxiliary Conference, 
arranged for the wives and daughters of 
delegates, by a committee, of which Mrs. 
Robert Lansing, wife of the Secretary of 
State, was Chairman. The original idea 
was to provide entertainment only in the 
form of receptions, teas, lunches, and other 
purely social events. Better counsel pre- 
vailed, however, and daily morning sessions 
were held in Continental Hall, at which 
many subjects of interest to women from 
one standpoint or another were presented: 
Pageantry, by Miss Hazel Mackaye; To- 
morrow, by Miss Zona Gale; Patriotism, 
by Mrs. William Cummings Story; The 
General Federation of Women's Clubs, by 
Mrs. Percy Pennybacker; The Housing 
Problem, by Mrs. Albion Fellows Bacon; 
Women in The Red Cross Field, by Miss 
Mabel Boardman; and A Pan-American 
Bureau of Education, by Mrs. Fannie Fern 
Andrews. 

That part of the auxiliary program which 
bore most directly on Home Economics 
was changed for the better between the 
dates of the first and second issues of the 
program, and again after the sessions began, 
so that the j)rograms circulated in advance 
do not give an adequate idea of the meetings 
as held. As finally given, the progran-. "n- 
cluded addresses by Mrs. Henrietta C. Cal- 
vin, of the United States Bureau of Educa- 
tion, on The Economic Function of Women; 
by Mrs. J. H. Stannard of the Garland 
School of Home Making, on Education for 
Home Making; and by Mrs. Louis F. Post, 
on Advancing Ideals for the Home. 

Those who attended the final session were 
led to infer from Mrs. Post's charming but 
apologetic address that the constructive 



1916] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



161 



side of Home Economics had not been ade- 
quately treated in former sessions, and 
that those who were in charge of the Con- 
ference feared that the South American 
delegates might leave under the unfortunate 
impression that the American home is in 
decadent condition. She met che criticism 
that American women are extravagant in 
the use of food materials and blind followers 
of fashion in dress by saying that intelligent 
discussion in food problems is far more 
general than formerly and that women's 
dress is rapidly becoming more healthful 
and better adapted to different occasions; 
and of apartment house Hfe by saying that, 
while, unsuitcd for families with children, 
it is not wholly evil since it often puts home 
life within the reach of the remnants of 
families, women living alone for example. 
It may be that fewer explanations would 
have been needed if the list of speakers had 
included a larger number of those who 
represent Home Economics as taught today 
in schools of high standing and of workers 
in other Home Economics fields. 

George Peabody College for Teach- 
ers. In response to a demand from agents 
and cooperators in the South, growing out 
of the great success of the summer work, 
George Peabody College for Teachers made 
arrangements to repeat during the winter 
quarter one of its most notable successes 
of the summer quarter, 1915. To that end, 
it is offering, through the hearty cooperation 
and assistance of government bureaus, two 
important groups of special courses for Can- 
ning Clubs and Home Demonstration Agents. 

The classes enrolled during the summer 
represented eleven southern states. The 
courses were conducted by government ex- 
perts in home demonstration work, and 
Canning Club Week brought together a 
notable group of pioneers in girls' and 
women's club work, state agents, county 
agents, cooperators, the girls themselves, 
and some of the mothers. The work of the 
winter quarter is expected to be equally 
strong in its content and conductors, and just 
as far-reaching in results. 



The courses provided show variety and 
range and are of a practical nature intended 
to meet the special needs of Home Eco- 
nomics extension workers of all classes. 

A commendable feature of the work is the 
division of the courses into two groups, 
Group I offered for the first term only, from 
January 3 to February 11; Group II extend- 
ing throughout the entire winter quarter, 
ending March 22. 

Home Demonstration Work. During 
the week of December 13-18, 1915, the An- 
nual Conference of State Agents in Home 
Demonstration Work was held at Washing- 
ton, D. C. There were about thirty-five 
State .Agents, Assistant State and District 
Agents from the fifteen Southern States 
present. 

The year's activities were reported, not 
only in the Girls' Canning Club Work, but 
also in the Home Demonstration Work for 
Women. Over 6000 women have made 
demonstrations in their homes. In the 
Home Demonstration Work the productive 
side is the first idea considered. Some splen- 
did results were given in raising poultry 
and selling eggs, butter making, making 
various labor saving devices and in im- 
proving sanitary conditions. A fine oppor- 
tunity has been afforded in teaching the best 
utilization of the canned products as well as 
the fresh products from the winter gardens. 

Simmons College. The cafeteria at 
Simmons College gives a good illustration 
of what careful and systematic administra- 
tion may accomplish. It was planned and 
equipped for 200, yet serves an average of 
515 students daily with perfect orderliness 
and dispatch. From half-past twelve to 
one o'clock it has been found possible to 
serve ten students each minute. This has 
been accomplished largely by putting into 
the hands of the College Seniors the regula- 
tion of the routing of the students, and of 
the hours when each group may be served. 

In the twenty school days of October 
there were 10,280 meals served averaging 
16J cents each. 



162 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



If Simmons College had had nine more 
students this year it would number 1100. 
Of these 130 are college graduates. It is 
interesting to know that Wclleslcy, Smith, 
and Vassar have each furnished exactly 18 
of these graduate students. 

The cafeteria, though under the direct 
supervision of Miss Goodrich, is each year 
placed in charge of a student who completed 
the course during the previous year. This 
plan makes it possible to give a year's e.\cel- 
lent experience to some member of the 
class. 

The Household Arts Department of 
the New Mexico Normal University at 
East Las \'egas has reconstructed its two 
year college course into a four year course 
ofifering the degree of Bachelor of Science. 

.\n interesting and unique phase of the 
work in this department is the training of 
Spanish-.\mcrican students for rural work in 
Home Economics. 

The equipment is superior and the depart- 
ment is making big strides keeping pace 
with the modern development of the Home 
Economics Movement. This department 
is under the direction of Miss Lou E. 
Stallman, a graduate of the Kansas State 
.Agricultural College and formerly Instructor 
in the Towa State Teachers' College. 

East Tennessee Home Economics Con- 
ference. The N'ovember, 1915, meeting at 
the East Tennessee State Normal School 
was the first Home Economics Conference 
ever held in East Tennessee. 

Miss Carrie Lyford, specialist in Home 
Economics, U. S. Bureau of Education, 
addressed the conference on the subjects: 
Standardization of High School Courses 
in Home Economics, Keeping Home Eco- 
nomics Courses Close to Daily Life, and the 
Cost of Maintaining a Course in Home 
Economics. 

Other parts of the program varied some- 
what from the usual in emphasizing the 
im|)ortance of women's club work in Home- 
Economics, the ncccs.sity for mothers' clubs 
to aid in unifying the home and school in- 



terests, and the desirability of "practice 
house" and lunch room training in addition 
to class room instruction. 

In the unique session "The Apple Eve- 
ning," the addresses, readings, music and 
refreshments illustrated the possibilities of 
the culture and use of apples. 

The Boston Trade School for Girls, 
a part of the Boston public school system, 
has over 700 girls enrolled, with a long wait- 
ing list. It has placed this year more than 
one hundred and fifty girls in good positions. 
No more are ready to go out. although 
calls continue to come. Girls placed for 
the first time receive from $6 to $9 a week. 

In this school as in others one of the great 
dilViculties has been to find for instructors 
women who are skilled in a trade and who 
can at the same time teach. To supply 
this need a training class has been estab- 
lished that this year numbered fifteen. The 
class is given the principles of education, 
class-room demonstration and practice in 
the evening school. 

This evening school is planned for women 
who are employed through the day. Many 
girls who have been placed through the day 
class come back for further work in the 
evening. Not only are courses offered in the 
sewing trades, but also for housekeepers, 
helpers, waitresses, or brides-to-be in cook- 
ing and buying. Miss Florence E. Lead- 
better is principal of the Trade School. 

The editor of the Journal enjoyed meet- 
ing the seven hundred girls and making 
a short speech to them early in Novcm- 
l)er. 

The Kansas Home Economics Asso- 
ciation according to its usual custom met 
in convention with the State Teachers' 
Association November 12 and \^, 1915, in 
Toi>oka. 

The chief action of the business mectinj* 
was the acceptance of an outline of a uni 
form course in Home Economics for th» 
high schools of the state, and the decision \<> 
print this outline for the use of teachers. 



1916] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



163 



The following program was given: 

Differentiation of Home Economics in the 
Various Institutions, Prof. Elizabeth 
Sprague, University of Kansas; Preparation 
and Standardization for Teaching House- 
hold Arts, Mrs. .Ann Gilchrist Strong, Uni- 
versity of Cincinnati; How to Build a 
Course in Costume and Designing, Miss 
Florence Hunt, Kansas State Agricultural 
College. 

At the last session the following topics 
were discussed: The Relation of Home Eco- 
nomics Training to the Needs of the Com- 
munity, Shall Textbooks Be Used in Home 
Economics? The Relation of the Home 
Economics Department to the High School 
Building and Its Care, Home Economics for 
the Grades, and Ways and Means of Doing 
Reference Work in High School. 

Miss Julia Stone, state inspector of rural 
schools, addressed the round table on Home 
Economics for Rural Schools. 

The Alabama Home Economics Asso- 
ciation held its second annual conference 
at the Girls Technical Institute, Monte- 
vallo, January 27-29. 

Reports were given showing what had 
been done in Home Economics in Alabama 
during 1915; various phases of Home Eco- 
nomics were discussed by Home Economics 
workers in the South; and vocational 
Phases of Home Economics as seen in Cali- 
fornia and Elsewhere, and A Survey of 
Home Economics in the United States 
were presented by Mrs. Mary Schenck 
Woolman of Boston. 

The Missouri Association of Home 
Economics at a recent meeting in Kansas 
City changed its name from Association of 
Household .Arts and Sciences to Association 
of Home Economics. 

The program was largely taken up by a 
consideration of Home Economics in the 
Junior College, and the importance, in the 
teaching of Home Economics, of Hygiene, 
Exhibits of Food Products, Scoring of Foods, 
and Textiles and Fashions. 



There were exhibits of note books, bulle- 
tins and new books. Housekeeping apart- 
ments and school lunch rooms in the vari- 
ous schools were \-isited and trips were made 
to many places where food and household 
supplies are manufactured. 

Sanitary Flour Bags.— The Chicago 
Housewives' League has sent a letter to the 
retail grocers of the city, asking their coop- 
eration in the handling of flour in dust proof, 
sanitary bags. The League is to publish a 
list giung the name and address of every 
Chicago retail grocer who has such flour for 
sale, and to distribute the list through the 
city. 

" .Anyone familiar with the shipjung, trans- 
portation and dispensing of flour in its 
present form of packing, knows the trail of 
flour which leaks from every bag. It is a 
fact that on the floor of an empty freight 
car, which has just carried a shipment of 
flour, will be found a layer of flour an inch 
or more in depth. If the flour can so easily 
sift through the sack, it is evident that dust, 
dirt, moisture and other impurities can sift 
in. On the docks and freight warehouses, 
men in soiled clothing have been seen rest- 
ing comfortably on piles of nice, soft sacks 
of flour. It is a very common thing to see 
bags of flour piled directly on the dusty, 
dirty, damp sidewalk in front of stores." 

There are at least two types of sanitary 
bags on the market; the cotton cloth bag 
with paper lining, and the paper bag. The 
latter, of course, is somewhat cheaper, but 
is not so strong as the paper lined cloth bag. 
Even this cotton paper lined sack costs the 
miller only one cent more for each quarter 
barrel than the sack in present use, and this 
should be returned to him many times over 
by the elimination of loss by leakage, break- 
age or contamination during transit. 

Charles Dwyer. — Charles Dwyer, edi- 
tor of The Woman's World, 107 South 
Clinton Street, Chicago, 111., slipped and 
fell on a sidewalk in Chicago on January 17, 
and died shortly afterward. Charles Dwyer 



164 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



was born in Richmond, Surrey, England, in 
1858. He joined the staff of The Delinea- 
tor as assistant editor; four years later he 
was appointed editor; he remained in that 
position until 1906. He then became edi- 
tor of The Ladies' World, and in 1913 was 
appointed editor of The Woman's World. 

As one of the notices of his death says: 
"Mr. Dwyer had earned the affectionate re- 
gard of thousands of writers who were con- 
tributors to periodicals which he edited." 

Mr.Dwyerhadmanyfriendsamong Home 
Economics workers and his loss will be 
keenly felt by all who knew him. 

Brief Notes. The account of the 
meeting of the X. S. P. I. E. at Minne- 
apolis was written by Miss Isabel Ely Lord, 
who was chosen at Seattle in response to 
the request of that Society, as the repre- 



sentative of the American Home Economics 
Association to bring about cooperation 
between the two Associations. !Miss Lord 
is a member of the Board of Managers of 
the N. S. P. I. E. and of the Council of the 
A. H. E. A. 

iMiss Arnold, who was appointed at the 
Council meeting in New York as delegate 
to the Minneapolis meeting, was unable to 
attend, and her place was filled by Miss 
Van Rensselaer. 

Several years ago, the Department of 
Household Arts Education, Teachers' Col- 
lege, published a bulletin "An Address List 
for Illustrative Material, Equipment and 
Supplies for Teaching Household Arts." 
This bulletin is now being revised in order 
to make it as complete as possible. Any 
helpful suggestions will be welcomed. 



\ OL. VIU, No. 4 APHIL. 1916 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested In Homemaking. Institution Management, 
and Kducational Work in Home EUronomics 

Mrs. Alice P Norton. Editor Keturah E. Baldwin, Xfanjfi-l! Editor 

Editorial Board 
Mr«. Mary H. Abel Anna Barrows C. F. Lamoworthy Isabel Ely Lord 

Ex-Offieio if rm6*rj— Martha Van Rensselaer, President American Home Economics AssociatioD 
Sarab Louise Arnold, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Ruth Whekler Chairman Science Section 
Gertrude McCheyne, Chairman Extension Education Section 

O/M'^if !i,ifj — The Officers, Memht-rs of the CTincil, and Advi<iers 



CONTENTS 

A Gastronomic Toir /.more Httniia Cox lO.S 

The Lux School of Industrial Training, San Francisco, California . . . .170 

The C )Ntrol of Food Colors 172 

What Should Gen-eral Chemistry Contribute to the Homl; I'.conomus Course, Speci- 
fic Information, General Concepts, or Scientific Method? Nellie E. Goldlhwaite 173 

The Use of the Thermometer in the Cookino of Soft Custards . Anna \V . Williams 178 

The Training of High School Teachers in an Agricultural College G M. Wilson 180 

Terminology and the Smith-Hughes Bili //</(•« Kinne 186 

A Resolution Passed Febriarv 25, 1916 188 

Stitdents' Contributions 189 

For the Homemaker 191 

The Woman of Today Myra Reynolds 191 

Novelty Versus Quality' Charlotte Gibbs Baker 191 

Rennet Custard — The Dish That .Makes Itself Elizabeth DiiBois Bache 195 

Some Suggestions for Fly Control in the Home 197 

The County Agent ant> the Farm Home 199 

The Ripening of Cream 201 

Household Measurements 202 

Editorial 20.^ 

Comment and Discussion 205 

Announcement 206 

Books anti Ltter-^ture 207 

Bibliography of Home Economics 212 

News from thk Fieih 215 



The Journal of Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics .Association. 
$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.25. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on New York, Express Order or Postal .Money Order, payable 
to the .American Home Economics .Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CH.ANGE IN .ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which the 
change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old .Address should be dearly indi:utted in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION Station N, Baltiiiori, Md. 

Entered as second cLiss matter at the B.iltimore Post Office 





'IiiF l.i'X Sriiooi. OF Indimk. 



>,N 1 



C ,1.. (Soo |>;ij;c 170) 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. VIII APRIL, 1916 No. 4 

A GASTRONOMIC TOUR 

LENORE HANNA COX 

The Man of the Family came into the house in much excitement, 
"Have you seen that the Ancona was torpedoed?" was his abrupt greet- 
ing. A feminine chorus "How terrible! Horrible! This frightful war!" 
responded; and then a plaintive voice asked, ''Do you suppose the 
cook was still on her?" A sorrowful silence was the only answer; no 
one knew, but all feared. A few years ago the Family voyaged to 
Naples on the Ancona and since then that cook had lived in memory 
and is spoken of with respectful awe. It is great luck to be intro- 
duced to the cuisine of a foreign country by a genius. During the 
seventeen days of our leisurely journey no dish was repeated except 
by special request, so varied was the menu, so versatile the artist. 
Cooking and service were distinctly Italian, and the Family now rates 
good Italian cooking with the best in the world. 

The Italians follow the Continental custom of the "little breakfast," 
early coffee, seldom accompanied even by bread, never by butter, which 
but for foreign consumption would be an almost unknown article in 
Italy. I recall a boarding-school in Switzerland where the Italian 
pensionnaires gladly exchanged their portion of breakfast butter for the 
sugar of the American or English student. 

The noon meal, colazione, is introduced by the antipasli, for which we 
have no word except the not very descriptive "relishes," — tiny salted 
fishes, others dressed with oil, delicious black ripe olives — which Ameri- 
cans are slowly learning to Hke — crisp fresh radishes, and here for 
the foreigner, butter, with the sweet, well baked, not-too-white Italian 
bread. This is followed by a course peculiarly Italian; maccaroni, it 

165 



166 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

may be (not the eternally baked-with-cheese of American tables); 
risotto, rice with various seasonings; gnocchi, a farinaceous dish that 
varies with the location, usually our commeal mush raised to the nth 
degree. Then a meat course which may be commonplace, followed 
by one of the Itahan cheeses, richer and more succulent than the French 
cheese, and new or old as one desires. Of this delectable meal Bae- 
decker remarks, ''The usual viands for colazione are ham, sausages, 
cutlets, beefsteaks and eggs." Franzo, dinner, is more often conven- 
tional, is served early, and there is a little supper about nine. 

What memories wake at mention of these dishes ! Memories of quaint, 
old-world, out-of-the-way trattorie, where one finds the native dishes 
in the native manner. We have expressed a wish for gnocchi Romaine, 
which of course should be eaten in Rome. We descend the Spanish 
Stairs, lingering as always, to look at the groups of artist's models in 
peasant costume, and the flower sellers who use the steps as display 
stands and fill the gray old square with brilliant color. Then we fol- 
low our guide, who is also "philosopher and friend," a couple of hun- 
dred yards down one of the narrow streets that open from the Piazza 
di Spagna, opposite the steps. Passing through an archway and along 
a paved passage we come to a courtyard, with a few stunted trees and a 
straggling flower-bed, and on one side find the trattoria we seek. We 
are the only women, but our friend is evidently an accustomed guest. 
It is a very simple place, low-ceiled, bare floor, and the antipasti con- 
sist only of crisp little radishes and ripe oUves; then comes the gnocchi, 
made of potatoes, masked, molded into slightly cup-shaped forms about 
an inch in diameter, sprinkled with grated Parmesan, dotted with 
butter or a little oil, and baked to a golden brown; rich and delectable. 
The "cutlet Milanaise" which follows takes its name from the rich sauce 
of tomato, truly the porno d'oro the "golden apple" of Italy, used as an 
adjunct to almost every form of food; and with the cutlet come tiny 
artichokes, so young, so tender, that they are fried whole in deep oil 
and eaten with joy. With this, one drinks one of the good clean table 
wines for which Italy is famous; in this instance (we drink the xnno del 
paese whenever po.ssible), it is Frascali, which seems to have a classical 
flavor, though one remembers that Horace preferred Fakrnian prob- 
ably brought from his estates near Naples. 

That city, by the way, is one abounding in sweets. True daughter 
of the South, it is not only the dolcc far nicnlc but material dolccs wliich 



1916] A GASTRONOMIC TOUR 167 

it loves. Here they have borrowed the art of preserved and crystallized 
fruits from Sicily, where it exists in perfection. It may be imagination 
but I think torrone di Napoli better and richer than all other torrones, and 
each city in Italy boasts its own. Torrone is a sort of sublimated choc- 
olate fudge, soft and rich, and full as possible of either roasted filberts 
or almonds, and is sold cut into luscious looking thick slices — for what 
seems to the American consumer a most modest price. 

Nowhere else does one see maccaroni in such vast quantities and vary- 
ing shapes as in Naples. It comes in tubes, thick, thin or medium; in 
ribbons of var>ing widths; in spirals, in balls, in alphabets, in numerous 
other shapes, sometimes hung on clotheslines to dry in wind and sun, 
sometimes spread on boards or (shades of sanitary science!) on a nice, 
clean-swept spot of ground beside the street! But no matter what shape 
one chooses, or what the manner of its curing (one can so easily believe 
that the article of commerce is not produced in this haphazard way!), 
the maccaroni of Naples is delicious when fresh boiled, served piping 
hot, a huge plateful — with a thick, strongly flavored tomato sauce to 
pour over it and a dish of grated Parmesan cheese. It should be eaten 
at one of the little tables outside the Rislorante in the Galleria Umberto 
Primo, with a band of the street singers for whom Naples is famous 
(or notorious, as one's ear decrees) performing opposite, singing, quite 
probably, "La Bella Napoli." The maccaroni will be followed by a 
polio diavolo — a tiny chicken cooked whole in an earthenware casserole, 
with onions and all sorts of vegetables and herbs for garnish, especially 
tiny sweet red peppers. With it is served finocchio, stalks of fennel, I 
believe, not unlike our celery, and if one likes the flavor, exceedingly 
good, stewed and served with white sauce. Then there would be a 
sweet, a very light one; perhaps sbaglione a rather more substantial 
form of our egg-nog, in which the egg and milk are slightly cooked, 
beaten up with the whites and the whipped cream and flavored with 
Marsala. After this, one is quite inclined, in a full and generous mood 
to throw a handful of coppers to the singers and the "gamins" waiting 
round. 

As one goes north in Italy, maccaroni is superseded as the staple 
food by bread made from chestnut flour, or from polenta; the latter the 
English compiler of Baedecker defines as "squashed maize" but will be 
more easily recognized by Americans as yellow com meal. Polenta 
bread is our commeal mush, made so stiff that it is quite solid and 



168 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

may be eaten from the hand. A chunk of this, with a quarter liter of 
wine and an occasional piece of goat's meat or salami — a highly seasoned 
sausage made of mule's meat — is the universal midday meal of the North 
Italian workman. If he be more prosperous he may buy his polenta 
bread fried, as in all the streets of the poorer quarters braziers may be 
found on which slices of mush are being fried in olive oil; and indeed 
everywhere are rotisseri, "roasteries," where almost any meat maybe 
found fried or broiled (all roasting is done before an open fire) , and any 
portion large or small may be bought and carried home. With what 
horror did our Italian teacher, a gentlewoman in reduced circumstances, 
look upon the Man of the Family and the writer, one day, as they were 
introducing a companion, the dignified wife of an English Colonel, to 
thp delights of fried mush in the street in Florence! Each was eating a 
piece of sizzling hot mush off a scrap of brown paper in the hand, and 
the Italian teacher passed as though she had never known them. It 
must be admitted that it was too much for the Colonel too, who had 
walked on pretending that he did not belong to the party. 

A delicious form of polenta is the Florentine gnocchi served especially 
well at the Tazzo d'Oro, the "Golden Cup," a dim httle trattoria on the 
much frequented Via del Calzaioli, one of those tiny arteries of business 
life that seem so inadequate to Western eyes. For the gnocchi, mush is 
made of the meal cooked in broth and milk. When cold and firm, it is 
cut into discs, piled prettily on a baking dish, sprinkled thick on each 
layer with grated Parmesan cheese, dotted with butter (or oil), moistened 
with consomme and browned in the oven. Corn meal mush can attain 
no higher heights! Rice is also beloved of the Northern Italian, but 
seems exotic even when eaten in the form of risotto Milanaise in the 
shadow of the Cathedral at Milan. The shadow of the cathedral at 
Orvieto brooded gently over a ristorante which offered a most delicious 
" timbale." Do the cathedrals still dream of the fat abbots who so loved 
the goodies of life? 

Venice called us across the peninsula, Venice and the things of the 
sea! There we found the Etcher, who showed us the Venice of the 
Venetians, not of the tourist. Of course an etcher loves shadows, so we 
saw Venice by night; not the Venetian Nights' Entertainments, with 
swaying gondolas and swinging lanterns reflected in the black mirror 
of the Grand Canal, but the Venice of the pedestrian: one can walk in 
Venice, and the wise do walk, along the riva with the black water lapping 



1916] A GASTRONOMIC TOUR 169 

a foot or two below; across tiny bridges arched like a bent bow; through 
narrow calle called "streets" where two people pass with difficulty; 
from campo to campiello, where the whole neighborhood congregates in 
the evening and the Etcher found innumerable subjects. Every campi- 
ello has its trattoria, every campo its more pretentious ristorante, where 
one may find fegato Veneziano, as satisfying as its name, and a Jrittura 
mista, — "little fried things mixed," a most expressive title! If one is 
finicky it were better not to look too closely at the fried things. Not 
being imaginative, under the tutelage of the Etcher we found and en- 
joyed tiny curled up devil-fish (octopi), sea-urchins, baby artichokes, 
bits of cauliflower, beans, starfish, scraps of Uver — in one brown oil- 
bath blent. This serves very well as a fish course, and the fcgato 
Veneziano may follow. This is simply calf's Uver, cooked as follows: 
about half of a medium-sized onion is cut into very thin slices and 
fried golden-brown in olive oil; to this a pound of liver cut into small 
pieces is added with half a pint of soup-stock, and cooked till tender, 
with a bay-leaf and sprig of parsley for flavoring; then a glass of white 
wine, salt and pepper, and a teaspoon of arrowroot to thicken (corn- 
starch works as well but is unknown in Italy) and the whole is served 
in a border of polenta, rice or maccaroni, boiled and mixed with a few 
spoonfuls of grated Parmesan. 

Cheese is a very constant ingredient of Italian as of French cookery; 
it not only adds a toothsome flavor but supplies to some extent the 
lack of meats. One meat that is common in Venice (common in the 
sense that it is often met by the tourist!) is the pigeon; can it be that 
one is ofttime regaled on those overfed pets of the Piazza di San 
Marco? 

Our route north lay over the Brenner — that historic pass by which 
the hordes of Attila swept down upon and devastated Italy, and which 
two armies are now fiercely disputing; — for the greater part of the way 
there is no railroad, and so we drove in one of those comfortable, roomy 
"victorias" that are prevalent everywhere in Italy. It was quite late 
in the season to attempt the Dolomites, and even in the beginning, at 
Belluno, the tourist hotels were closed for the season. 

In Italy, as otherwhere I imagine, when in doubt about accommo- 
dations, follow the military, so our "cocchiere" asked where the officers 
ate, and we drove thither. It was cold and we had driven in a raw and 
biting wind all the afternoon. A stove or fireplace was not to be hoped 



170 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

for, but when we insisted on heat, we were conducted to the kitchen, 
where we comfortably toasted our toes and watched our dinner in the 
making. The sole fire was on an open hearth, about fighteen inches 
high, standing quite away from the wall on all sides, while a huge iron 
hood hung over it conducted the smoke to the chimney. We were offered 
high chairs, evidently made for the purpose, on which we could sit and 
put our feet on the hearth. 

On one side the hearth was a crane with a huge iron pot of polenta 
already cooked stiff, and lest it bum, constantly stirred by a very red- 
faced maid on her knees. Opposite was an open sheetiron oven filled 
with rows of little spitted birds, all broiling in the heat. We knew quite 
well what they were, we had seen them in all the markets of northern 
Italy — they were all the song birds that migrate from northern Europe, 
thrushes, finches, larks, all caught in huge nets and slaughtered to make 
not a Roman holiday, but an ItaHan meal ! The spits were being care- 
fully turned by a small boy and the padrona herself was basting the 
birds with hot oil from a dish. They looked good— they were good— 
for we fell from our high estate of indignation, and ate the tiny songsters, 
served very hot on the spits on a bed of polenta, crunching their little 
bones and drinking their little brains just as did the officers we imi- 
tated. With them we had a flask of Chianti in its pretty red and green 
and white straw jacket; then a salad with Gorgonzola hianca sweet 
and new, and though we felt like cannibals, our last pranzo, for the 
time, in Italy, did not entirely lack elements of success. 



THE LUX SCHOOL OF INDUSTRIAL TRAINING, SAN 
FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA 

The Lux School of Industrial Training is a school for girls founded 
under a bequest contained in the will of Mrs. Miranda W. Lux. 

In 1912 the trustees came into possession of the funds with which to 
carry out the object of the endowment. Actual instruction began in 
August, 1912. At the same time a tripartite agreement was entered 
into between the Lux, Lick and Wilmerding Schools whereby Mr. Geo. 
A. Merrill, Director of the two latter schools, was made Director of the 



I 

I 



1916] THE LUX SCHOOL OF INDUSTRL\L TRAINING 171 

new Lux School, thereby securing the educational cooperation of the sepa- 
rate endowments. Under this arrangement each school retains its in- 
dividual identity, having its own buildings, administering its own funds 
and maintaining a separate staff of instructors. 

The Lick School teaches the machinery trades, prepares boys and girls 
for technical courses in the university, and trains for mechanical careers 
in general; the Wilmerding School teaches the building trades and ar- 
chitectural drafting and through cooperation with the Lick School also 
meets the university requiremeots in architectural engineering; the Lux 
School has made provision for girls only, and its curriculum is based 
upon the various household occupations. In this way each endowment 
speciahzes along its own lines, although a student enrolled in any one of 
the three schools is permitted to pursue some of his or her studies in either 
of the other schools. 

While the three schools show a wide differentiation in curricula, the 
three student bodies are unified through the various social activities of 
the schools. 

The Lux School admits girls who have completed the grammar grades. 
Its aim is to give them a thoroughly practical training in all the essential 
things of a well-ordered home, including plain sewing, dressmaking, 
millinery, cooking, marketing, table setting, housekeeping, bed making, 
laundering, dyeing, cleaning, sanitation, heating, lighting, ventilating, 
house decorating, planning and furnishing, home gardening, physical 
training, health and hygiene, nutrition, dietetics, and home nursing. 
Such instruction as is given in mathematics, science, drawing, and in the 
literary branches is made unusually practical and effective by being 
kept in constant relation with the occupational work of the school. 

The problems of food, clothing and shelter are studied in relation to 
their social, historical and aesthetic backgrounds and thus give liberal 
culture which is closely interwoven with actual concrete work. Con- 
sistent with the plan of instruction is the arrangement and equipment 
of the rooms to give the atmosphere of a well-ordered home, and con- 
stant association with its essentials. A practice bedroom, living room, 
dining room, and laundry are in daily use in connection with the instruc- 
tion of the school. Throughout the building home furniture takes the 
place of the customary school desk. 

The subject matter of the Lux curriculum is made into a network by 
close correlation between the departments of the school. The details 
of the work are discussed and planned in advance for each quarter of ten 



I 



172 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

weeks by the teachers in conference. Each teacher shapes her work to 
include the needs of the other departments. In this way all studies are 
taught as closely related parts of one subject. By this system of inter- 
locking, the work is so unified that every moment of time and efTort of 
teacher and student is given its utmost value. The girl is thus trained to 
see nothing in isolation, but everything in relation to allied subjects. 

Tuition is free but there is a charge of three dollars per quarter of ten 
weeks for practice material. Diplomas are given at the end of four 
years, but the work of the first two years is arranged with special regard 
for girls who can remain only that length of time. Those who wish to 
prepare for the university substitute some of the college preparatory 
subjects of the Lick School for parts of the Lux curriculum. There is 
also a post-graduate course of two years for those who may wish to 
become teachers of domestic branches. 



THE CONTROL OF FOOD COLORS 

A food inspection decision has been issued by the U. S. Department 
of Agriculture permitting the use of tartrazine in coloring food products. 
Investigations have shown this color to be harmless and suitable for 
coloring foods. It is manufactured in large quantities in the United 
States. Seven other coal-tar dyes have been permitted in foods since 
the enactment of the food and drugs act. Samples of all dyes certified 
by the manufacturers are examined in the Bureau of Chemistr>' and 
only such dyes permitted as are free from impurities and harmful 
substances. 

Another decision has recently been issued making more stringent re- 
quirements in reference to the certification of coal-tar dyes when mixed 
with substances not coal-tar dyes. This decision provides that here- 
after the manufacturer shall deposit with the Secretary of Agriculture a 
declaration that every package in which any such mixture is sold shall 
have a plain and conspicuous statement of the quantity or proportion 
of the certified dyes present in the mixture. 



1916] GENERAL CHEMISTRY AND HOME ECONOMICS 173 

WHAT SHOULD GENERAL CHEMISTRY CONTRIBUTE TO 
THE HOME ECONOMICS COURSE, SPECIFIC INFORMA- 
TION, GENERAL CONCEPTS, OR SCIENTIFIC METHOD?' 

NELLIE E. GOLDTHWAITE 
Head of Home Economics Department, Nrw Hampshire College, Durham, N. H. 

A knowledge of chemistry and physics, the two sister sciences, is fun- 
damental to an understanding of any of the other so-called natural sci- 
ences; hence, a knowledge of chemistry and physics is fundamental to 
an understanding of any applied natural science. 

A large part of Home Economics is household science, i.e., an appli- 
cation of the natural sciences to the problems of the household. The 
woman who would manage her household efficiently to-day must know 
something of the natural sciences she is constantly trying to apply. 
She may be grateful if her maid possesses mere information; but she her- 
self, the forewoman, will not be content without a knowledge of the why. 
Granted that in Home Economics the aim is to produce educated 
women, not merely trained servants, then we must look well to the 
foundation of pure science on which this educated woman may build. 
This science foundation is physics and chemistry. 

The study of physics should precede chemistry. No one can teach 
chemistry without promptly discovering that if his students have not 
studied physics, he must, perforce, teach some physics along with the 
chemistry; e.g., he must teach physical state, solubility, specific gravity, 
heat, thermometers, the barometer, Boyles' law, the law of conserva- 
tion of energy. We may call the subject taught chemistry, but it is 
physics and chemistry so intimately combined that we cannot separate 
the two. Each is a study of matter. In the broader sense chemistry 
is a branch of physics but a branch so large that it rivals the parent stem. 

What should the course in general chemistry contribute to the edu- 
cation of the Home Economics student, specific information, general 
concepts or scientific method? It should contribute all three. If prop- 
erly taught, chemistry is bound to contribute the first and the last; the 
last, scientific method, should be developed through the acquisition of 
the first, specific information; possessed of these two, specific information 

'Presented at the fifteenth meeting of the Central Association of Science and Mathematics 
Teachers, Chicago, 1915. 



174 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

and scientific method, the student necessarily possesses the third, general 
concepts. 

What the student actually will gain from the course in general chem- 
istry will depend very largely on how it is taught. Chemistry should 
develop primarily the power of close observation, exact thought, and 
logical reasoning from cause to eflfect. Acquisition of knowledge in 
this way means development of the scientific method of study, and hence 
the development of a scientific attitude of mind. These three, definite 
information, the scientific method of study, and a scientific attitude of 
mind, are essential to the mental development of the Home Economics 
student. Too much of what passes for education in Home Economics 
is mere information. The person possessing mere information about 
science, though perhaps very glib and daringly decisive in expressing 
that information, is quite helpless when confronted by unfamiliar 
questions; not so the student trained in pure science; trained in reason- 
ing from cause to effect, she may foretell, with considerable assurance, 
the probable answers to unfamiliar questions. 

Through chemistry the student must acquire certain specific infor- 
mation: she must learn primarily the meaning of matter; must learn 
respect for matter through gradually comprehending one of the great 
fundamental laws of all matter, the law of the conservation of mass; she 
must learn what matter is made of, and hence the meaning of element; 
must learn, through studies of chemical combinations of elements, the 
meaning of compound and of chemical change; must learn to differentiate 
between chemical and physical changes, and also between compounds 
and mechanical mixtures; must learn the meaning of oxidation and re- 
duction; must learn to distinguish between acids, bases, salts; must 
learn what neutraHzation is; must learn to classify elements not merely 
according to their physical nature as gases, Hquids, solids, but also ac- 
cording to their chemical nature as acidic or basic; should learn simple 
qualitative tests for the elements, and for the more important acids and 
bases. 

Through quantitative studies the student must grasp the meaning 
of the law of definite proportions, and in turn, the law of multiple pro- 
portions. By quantitative studies is not meant quantitative analysis, 
but other types of quantitative experiments, as the synthesis of water 
by weight, by volume, the oxidation of metals, the reduction of metallic 
oxides, neutraHzation experiments, and many others. 

It is of primary importance that the Home Economics student should 



1916] GENERAL CHEMISTRY AND HOME ECONOMICS 175 

study in detail at least the twelve elements of which the human body is 
chiefly composed: oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, carbon, sulphur, phos- 
phorus, sodium, potassium, magnesium, calcium, iron, chlorine. In addi- 
tion to these, fluorine, bromine, iodine, and silicon should be studied, 
—not necessarily because at least three of them occur in traces in the 
body, but because their study will make more complete the study of 
the other twelve. 

Obviously, the study of any element includes the laboratory study, 
not only of that element in the free state, but also of its simple inorganic 
compounds. 

In this connection it is well to note that the laboratory preparation of 
an element consists in isolating that element, not in making the ele- 
ment. Compounds may be made, but elements, never! 

Oxygen is usually the first element studied. This at once leads to a 
consideration of combustion, and this, to oxidation. If the stud^ of 
oxygen is followed by that of hydrogen, and this by their compounds 
water and hydrogen peroxide, excellent opportunities are offered for 
emphasizing the meaning of matter, element, chemical change, com- 
pound, and the laws of definite and multiple proportions. 

Directly, the so-called atomic theory should be begun. Extreme care 
must be taken in developing the atomic theory, — extreme care lest the 
student confuse theory with fact. A somewhat wide experience seems 
to demonstrate that in the mind of the ordinary student, fact and theory 
in chemistry are identical. To avoid this fallacy, the teacher must 
difi"erentiate very clearly between facts, and the theory elaborated to 
explain these same facts. A number of similar scientific facts lead 
to the enunciation of the natural law governing these facts; or in other 
words, to the discovery of one of nature's laws. A theory, in science, is 
a sort of mental picture manufactured for the purpose of aiding the 
mind to understand a group of similar facts and the natural law or laws 
controlling them. Thus, the atomic theory gives a logical explanation, 
and enables the mind to form a mental picture of the union of oxygen 
and hydrogen in the definite proportions of 8 to 1 by weight to form 9 
parts of water by weight, and in the definite proportions of 16 to 1 by 
weight to form hydrogen peroxide. 

But the atomic theory fails to explain why oxygen and hydrogen unite 
by volume in the proportion of 2 to 1 to form 2 volumes of water vapor. 
The student should learn that this fact, and other similar facts concern- 
ing the chemical union of gases, led to the enunciation of Gay-Lussac's 



176 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

Law of Gaseous Volumes. Whereas the atomic theory fails to make 
this law clear to the human mind, it is made clear by the development 
of Avogadro's Hypothesis; this, in turn, is theory, but a theory so well 
substantiated by facts that it is often spoken of as Avogadro's Law. 

Naturally in connection with the atomic theory, memorising the 
atomic weights of the elements should be begun. The theory of valence, 
which logically follows the development of the atomic theory, is really 
an extension of the atomic theory, and an extension which leads di- 
rectly to the chemical equation, — that tangible short-hand expression of 
all the qualitative and quantitative facts involved in a chemical reac- 
tion. Rarely does the ordinary student understand the writing of the 
chemical equation. It is easily mastered if developed gradually, logi- 
cally and repeatedly by the teacher. The chemical equation should be 
no strain on the student's memory; the equation itself should never be 
memorized, but the facts which it represents should be memorized. 
The chemical equation is a short-hand concise expression of certain 
definite facts which should be already fixed in the memory. 

Earlier in this paper it was mentioned that the student should learn 
simple qualitative tests for the more important acids and bases. Ob- 
\'iously, these should be learned in logical connection with the study of 
the fundamental element from which the acid or base is derived. 
Whether the study of general chemistry should be complicated, as it 
often is, by a premature attempt to explain the theory of solutions, is a 
serious question in the writer's mind. The atomic theory must be taught 
as a means to an end. If the student grasps this theory with its at- 
tending theory of valence, she will have done well. The theory of solu- 
tions may well be left to the definite study of quaUtative analysis. 

In connection with the study of oxygen and hydrogen, oxidation and 
reduction should be begun; I say, begun, because these processes, like 
many others in chemistry, are comprehended only by continued repeti- 
tion and classification of the principles involved, as other illustrati<^ns 
are met with in the progress of the study. 

So, as each new element and its compounds are studied in turn, each 
fact learned must be grouped in the student's mind with similar facts; 
otherwise, the study of chemistry soon becomes reduced to an attempt 
to memorize mere isolated facts, — a feat manifestly impossible. Chem- 
istry learned in this way is of no value pedagogically. Such an attempt 
is futile as a means of grasping even the specific infonnation of the sci- 
ence; still more is it futile as a means of developing the scientific method. 



1916] GENERAL CHEMISTRY A>n) HOME ECONOMICS 177 

Science is classified knowledge. Only by experiment and by gradual 
classification of the truths determined, does a science become developed; 
only through proper classification of the truths involved, does it become 
possible to comprehend that science. Only by continued repetition of 
these truths, and a habit of classifj-ing each new truth learned, does that 
science become a part of the mental equipment. 

It is by iteration and re-iteration of the laws of chemistry, as these are 
illustrated in the progress of the study of the elements and their com- 
pounds, that these laws become impressed upon the mind. For ex- 
ample, the law of conservation of mass, and its sister law in physics, the 
law of conservation of energy, are too deep and far-reaching for the 
student to grasp their full meaning, except through constant aj^plica- 
tions to illustrations of the truths which they express. Even so, it often 
seems that it is only in maturity that the human mind fully grasps the 
final significance of these two great fundamental laws of the universe. 

Finally, the Periodic System of the Elements is a magnificent culmi- 
nation of the study of the various elements and their compounds. 
Mendelejeff's arrangement of the elements according to increasing atomic 
weight, emphasizes the chemical similarities of certain groups of ele- 
ments which appear at regular intervals in the series. It brings into 
bold relief the characteristics of the various families of elements, and 
enables the student to gain some perspective of the elements of which 
matter is composed. The periodic system is a most fitting and impres- 
sive climax to the study of generaj chemistry. 

If there is time, a brief study of the main types of the so-called organic 
compounds of carbon may well be taken up in the course in general 
chemistry. Of course, if possible, the student needs a separate course in 
organic chemistry. In any case, whatever is undertaken in the line of 
carbon chemistry must be from the standpoint of constitutional formulae 
as far as these are known; any other study of these organic compounds 
will soon lead to hopeless confusion. In connection with such study 
of the types of organic compounds, hydrolysis, and oxidation, and re- 
duction should be especially emphasized; hydrolysis, because it is the 
fundamental reaction by which the food-stuffs are prepared for absorp- 
tion into the body; oxidation, because the body returns its foodstuffs 
to the inorganic kingdom in highly oxidized forms; reduction, because 
it is by reduction that the vegetable world again transforms these highly 
oxidized inorganic materials into food-stuffs for the animal economy. 

In conclusion, the Home Economics student should gain from the 



178 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

course in general chemistry certain specific information concerning the 
elements, at least those of which the human body is composed; but the 
acquisition of this knowledge should be in every respect upon a thor- 
oughly scientific basis, whereby the facts, laws and theories of chemistry 
are logically developed, to the end that the student shall become inbued 
wuth the scientific method of inquiry and of thought. 



THE USE OF THE THERMOMETER IN THE COOKING OF 

SOFT CUSTARDS 

ANNA W. WILLIAMS^ 
University of Illinois 

The value of the thermometer in candy making and the difficulties 
in recognizing the ordinary coating of the spoon test for soft custards 
led to an attempt to use the thermometer as a means of detecting the 
stages in custard cooker>'. 

The follo^ving methods were used and results obtained. 

Custards were made, using 1 whole egg, with 1 tablespoon of sugar, 
to 1 cup of milk. Cooking was carried on as usual, in a small double 
boiler, over a low flame, and the mixture stirred slowly, but constantly. 
Care was necessary', as in candy making, to take exact observations, and 
to prevent rapid cooking at the critical temperatures. 

WTien the first coating of the spoon appeared, at 80° C. or 176° F., 
two tablespoons of the custard were removed to a small dish, and at each 
succeeding ^° in temperature a similar portion was removed. Thus, 
a complete set of samples was taken up to 85° C, or 185° F. A remark- 
able series of gradations was thus obtained, from the thin custard of 
uncooked flavor at 80° C. to the thicker, but smooth, custards with 
delicate flavor at 82^° C, or 180i° F., and 83° C. or 18U° F., and the 
fine curdle, with a less delicate flavor at 83^° C. or 182 ,"0° F., followed 
by the increasingly heavier curdle. 

Having obtained the optimum temperatures of 82°^ to 83° C, the next 
question was how to care for the custard so that the cooking would be 
immediately checked, and the curdled stage prevented. It was found 

' Assisted by Charlotte Urbain. 



I 



1916] USE OF THE THERMOMETER 179 

that if allowed to stand in the hot pan, even though removed from the 
water, the cooking continued about the edges sufikiently to cause a slight 
curdle. Pouring immediately into another dish always prevented the 
rise in temperature, and a smooth custard was insured. 825° C. was 
found to give excellent results and was not so near the danger point as 
83° C; it is therefore, to be recommended. 

The next part of the work was to find out the effect of an increased 
number of eggs and the effect of cornstarch on the visible curdling point. 
Two eggs to 1 cup of milk were used. Thicker custards were obtained 
at the same temperatures, the curdle was more evident at 83^° C. How- 
ever 82^° C. still gave a custard of excellent consistency. When 1 egg 
and 1 tablespoon of cornstarch were used to 1 cup of milk, the re- 
sulting product showed the same range of differences as an ordinary 
custard, except that the curdle appearing at 83^° C. was only slightly 
visible because it was held together by the cornstarch. 

The last part of the experiment was to find out the comparative curd- 
ling temperatures of custards made w^hoUy of egg whites, and custards 
made of egg yolks. The proportions used were 2 yolks or 2 whites to 1 
cup of milk. The same method of cookery, with the removal of samples 
at different temperatures, was followed as in the work with whole egg 
custards. The range for coagulation of the egg white was greater, and 
the curdling temperature lower than for whole eggs or egg yolk. The 
coagulation began to show at 56° C, and continued very slowly to 80° C, 
when it began to thicken noticeably. The thickening power increased 
favorably until 82° C. which showed the best custard of the range. At 
82^° C. the custard was slightly thicker, and at 83° C. a curdle appeared. 
The curdle then continued to increase rapidly. Beating the egg white 
made the curdle more marked. 

The custard made of yolks gave a thin coating on the spoon at 80°C., 
and at 82° C. the spoon was coated well. From 82° C. the custard in- 
creased in thickness and kept smooth until 84^° C. was reached, when a 
fine grain began to show. 

The final conclusions reached from this entire piece of work were:— 

The thermometer, carefully used, is an exact test in the cooking of 
soft custard. 

The curdHng points for custards are: 

Whole egg 83f C; white 83° C; yellow 84^° C. 

The optimum temperatures are: 

Whole egg 82^° C; white 82° C; yellow 83^ C. 



180 THE JOURNAL OF DOME ECONOMICS [April 

THE TRAINING OF HIGH SCHOOL TEACHERS IN AN 
AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE^ 

G. M. WILSON 

Iowa Stale College 

A recent study of agricultural colleges in the middle West makes it 
evident that such colleges are making a particular effort to train teachers 
of agriculture, Home Economics and manual training; and that gradually, 
they are extending their work to the training of teachers of other sub- 
jects especially science and mathematics. This paper is confined 
to the experience of the Iowa State College in training teachers of Home 
Economics. 

There is considerable evidence that most of the 600 women students 
of the Iowa State College are looking forward to teaching as their 
mmediate career following graduation. Last year there were 42 
women in the senior class in Home Economics. Forty of them were 
registered with the Appointment Committee for teaching work. This 
year, there are 72 in the senior class in Home Economics and 62 of them 
have thus far registered with the Appointment Committee. Further 
evidence of the interest of the women of the Iowa State College in teach- 
ing is furnished by the large extent to which they are electing education 
courses. 

The present courses in domestic science and domestic art require 
6 hours work in education, with the course in practice teaching; 
other work is elective. Yet more than half of the present class will 
meet the requirements for the first grade state certificate; that is 14 
hours in education and 6 hours in psychology. The present junior 
class is electing education almost unaminously and practically all of 
next year's seniors will. meet the 20 hour requirement. Is should be 
said in extenuation of the failure of possibly one-third of the senior 
class to meet this requirement that the work in education was not 
strongly emphasized until two years ago. At that time, the largest 
number taking courses in education in one semester was 38. At the 
present time there are 228. This has been brought about by properly 
calling the attention of students who plan to enter the teaching pro- 
fession to the necessity of meeting the requirements of the better high 
schools and obtaining the first grade certificate. 

' .\ paper prq)arcd for the Conference of the Commissioner of Education, Department 
of Superintendence, National Education Association, Cincinnati, 1915. 



1916] TRAINING OF HIGH SCHOOL TEACHERS 181 

If the fact is fairly well established that we are training teachers, 
it will be worth while to examine the course constituting such training: 
first, the Home Economics course as a whole; following that, the work 
in education in particular. The Home Economics courses appearing 
in the present catalog are a course in domestic science and a course in 
domestic art. These courses together with the course in science have 
the following requirements in hours. 

Domestic science, 19 J hours 

houn 

Cookery 9J 

Food and dietetics 6 

Home nursing 1 

Household management 3\ 

Domestic art, 22 J hours 

houff 

Sewing 4j 

Dressmaking 4J 

Applied design 4J 

The house 4§ 

History of art 4 

Personal hygiene I 

Science, 48} hours 

hours 

Botany 5 

Chemistry 21 J 

Physics 6 

General Zoology 4J 

Physiology 8] 

Bacteriology 3 J 

In general culture work, that is, English, literature, history, language, 
mathematics, sociology and public speaking a total of 30 hours is re- 
quired. In psychology and education a total of 9 hours is required. 
This leaves 8 hours of elective, the total required for graduation being 
139 hours. 

An examination of the above course shows a thorough scientific 
basis for the work in domestic science and enough general culture work 
to give a broad view point. At the present time, the elective opportuni- 
ties are used chiefly in the field of education in order to meet requirements 
for certificates. It should be added that the present facilities of the 
college have not permitted the development of institutional courses; 
that in time these will be developed and then a greater elective oppor- 
tunity will be open to the women who look forward to some kind of a 
career before entering homes of their own. 



182 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

The faculty of the Home Economics division has been chosen quite 
largely from Teachers College, Chicago University and sources which 
have tended to give an educational point of view. This enables the 
division in all of its work to keep in mind the pubhc school service later 
rendered by the teacliing work of their graduates. The effort is made in 
all of the work to avoid mere cooking and sewing and to give the student 
through Home Economics lectures and readings a broad outlook, and 
to point out the large possibiUties for good work in Home Economics; 
the opportunities for teaching high school girls and future homemakers 
the larger meaning of scientific living and practical economy in the 
home; and the necessity of right living. 

The Home Economics students who meet the requirements of the 
department of agricultural education and the State Board with refer- 
ence to a first grade certificate, take their professional training about 
as follows : in the sophomore year they take a three hour course in general 
psychology followed by a three hour course in educational psychology; 
in the junior year they take a three hour course in methods of teaching, 
a course dealing with factors in the teaching process, types of lessons, 
the steps in each type, the assignment, questioning, lesson plans, and 
similar topics. This course is followed in the same year by a course in 
the principles of education, a course dealing wilh aims and educational 
values and bases of education, — the biological, sociological and psycho- 
logical in particular. Because it is not provided for definitely in any 
other place, and because of the discovery of the need for such work by 
keeping in touch with students who have gone out from the institution, 
this course in the principles of education has been modified by taking a 
third of the time for problems of class room and general school manage- 
ment. 

The particular work in education for the senior year is a three hour 
course in special methods and practice teaching running throughout the 
year. The Ames public schools are available for practice teaching ard 
the work is organized from the fifth grade through the second year high 
school. Each student teacher has at present a total of 18 lessons under 
the direct supervision of a competent critic teacher and the director 
of practice teaching who gives the special methods in this course, fre- 
quently visits and observes the teaching work and always follows such 
visits by a conference with the student for the purpose of discussing 
tlie work. The number of lessons is to be e.xtcndcd to 36 as soon as 
possible. The student's plans are submitted in advance, giving oppor- 



1916] TRAINING OF ttlGH SCHOOL TEACHERS 183 

tiinity for criticism or change. She observes a few classes and gets 
acquainted with the situation before beginning her own teach'ng work 
and if her work does not proceed and develop properly the critic teacher 
may at any time take charge of the class, teaching for the student, the 
lesson which she had planned to teach, thus enabling the student to 
profit by the superior teaching ability of the critic teacher. 

The work in special methods, carried on with the practice teaching, 
reduces and brings into usable form the previous work on lesson planning, 
assignments, and questioning, but its particular problems are the making, 
criticizing and execution of 36 lesson plans, and the organization of 
courses of study, particularly a one-year course of study in Home 
Economics properly balanced and a four-year course in Home Economics. 
Each student in the class is required to satisfactorily plan the necessary 
number of lessons and detailed work for these two courses. There is 
further work upon equipment and this work is planned in such definite 
form that the student is prepared to go into a new high school situation, 
plan out the equipment, order it and supervise its installment. There 
is further work upon the examination and criticism of texts. This is a 
line of work which has increased tremendously in the last few years and 
must continue to increase with the rapid multiplication of common 
school and high school texts in Home Economics. Because of the fact 
that the teacher of Home Economics in the high school is frequently 
called upon for grade work, considerable attention is given to organiz- 
ing suitable home Economics work in the lower grades and its proper 
coordination with the other school work. Also because of the increased 
attention through legislation and otherwise to Home Economics work 
in the rural schools some special attention is given to the organization 
of work for the rural schools, to providing equipment at slight expense, 
and particularly to organizing work around the hot lunch for the children 
in the rural schools who come long distances and so cannot return home 
for the noon meal. 

The entire work in practice teaching and in special methods is strongly 
reinforced by the fact that the department has fully under its control 
the organization of the Home Economics work in the local public schools. 
Each member of the class in special methods is made familiar with the 
plan of the work as it is organized; is made to appreciate the problems 
involved, and the adjustment necessary, and in this way gets a good idea 
of what it means to go into a system of schools and organize a course 
in Home Economics. The course in the Ames public schools has been 



184 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

a growth and has been modified in keeping with new ideas so that it 
has at all times had the appearance of a live, active, course of study, 
rather than a dead, predetermined situation to be mastered and imitated. 

The course of study as at present organized is about as follows: in 
the 5th grade, one hour per week is devoted to the early American home. 
It is closely correlated with the American Pioneer History work out- 
lined for that grade. The Puritan home is studied as to available food, 
methods of cooking, utensils, etc., including the working out of such 
projects as the grinding of corn, baking with hot stones, candle making, 
soap making, and drying apples. It includes a study of the Puritan 
home as to shelter, means of lighting, clothing, and the processes of 
washing, combing, dyeing, spinning and weaving. The 5th year work 
also includes attention to southern homes and further attention to the 
early Iowa homes. The 6th year work requires one period of one hour 
per week throughout the year upon sewing. In the 7th year two periods 
of one hour each per week are required and the work is divided between 
practical problems in sewing and beginning food work. The historic 
viewpoint is retained more or less in this grade. In the 8th grade the 
work in foods is carried for one period per week throughout the year 
and the effort is made to give a somewhat comprehensive view of this 
field of study and its possibilities, — the food principles, the effect of 
applying heat, simple recipes and suggestions for home work. The 8th 
grade work also involves work in housekeeping one day per week through- 
out the year and for this work it has been possible to take the girls 
into actual homes, the groups alternating their work so that in the course 
of five or six weeks, girls in this class have opportunity to apply their 
knowledge to different phases of home work. 

In the first year high school the work is carried for five double periods 
per week throughout the year. One period each week throughout the 
year is devoted to work on the house. This involves such questions as 
planning the interior, exterior, plans and decorations, selection of the 
site, structure for warmth and convenience and sanitation; furnishing 
of the home, pictures, draperies, etc. These problems are worked out, 
not only through visiting and observ'ation of actual homes including 
houses under construction but they are al.so worked out through plans 
for the modification of the girls' own homes and tlirough further plans 
for the construction of a home which is conceived more or less ideally. 
The other work of the year is divided between foods for the first half 
and clothing for the second half; standard lines of work being observed 



1916] TRAINING OF HIGH SCHOOL TEACHERS 185 

and the effort being made at even,' point to secure practical notions 
and to develop projects which require the using of the infonnation by 
students. 

In the second year high school one double period per week through 
the year is devoted to the history of the home. This work is ofTered 
first this year with some misgivings but it is thought that it will develop 
a viewpoint which is thoroughly worth while. The rest of the time is 
divided between clothing for the first half of the year and food for the 
second half. The work in foods is deferred for the second half so 
that the senior students who do the teaching may have the advantage 
of some work in dietetics, in order to better carry the work planned for 
the high school. The above brief outline of the work which is actually 
carried out in the public schools is given in order to give a fuller appreci- 
ation of what it means in the training of teachers to have in hand the 
organization and working out of such courses. The stafi are agreed 
that this is a very significant part of the work in training teachers. 

It is with the same thought in mind that home credit work in Home 
Economics has been organized and offered to high school students 
and that classes for mature women have been conducted in afternoons 
and evenings in the high school Home Economics laboratories. The 
home credit work has shown the possibiUty of tying together the school 
work and the home duties of the pupils. It is possible for pupils to 
earn a total of two credits by home work in Home Economics. Two- 
thirds of a credit may be earned by cooking projects and this is so 
organized as to require certain undertakings and make others elective, 
all of the undertakings being such as supply some of the principles of food 
work developed in the high school classes. This has tended to interest 
the girls more fully in the home work and thus secure the proper attitude 
toward home work and the real purpose of high school work in Home 
Economics. Two-thirds of a credit may be earned by a student in 
sewing and two-thirds of a credit in general housework. The limit of 
this paper will scarcely justify entering into the details of these plans. 
The work has been carried far enough, however, to justify its further 
extension and to encourage the senior student who will go out as teacher 
to gradually introduce the home credit work as part of the course in 
Home Economics. 

The work with mature women is designed (from the standpoint of the 
student) to give more fully the idea of community and public service. 
As teachers in the public schools, — our critic teachers are really public 



186 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

school teachers, and our student teachers likewise are public school 
teachers, — we are interested, not only in the children but in their mothers 
and in their homes. This gives a larger opportunity for securing interest 
in public health, proper sanitation, proper selection of food, proper 
preparation and serving of foods, economy, attention to health through 
proper ventilation, exercise and recreation, in fact, it gives the oppor- 
tunity of carrying to the home what Mrs. Richards and others have 
developed as the Home Economics idea; that is, of making the Home 
Economics work comprehend the entire sphere of women's activities 
together with the realization of its possibiUties in building better children, 
better men and women and better communities. In a way, this is 
undertaking too much for the field of Home Economics but instead of 
criticizing from this standpoint we rather recommend that in all subjects 
this same view be secured and that all work be looked upon as an oppor- 
tunity for service in building up stronger, saner, and more healthful 
men and women and more sanitary communities. In fact we believe 
that the time will come when our larger high schools will demand teachers 
who have this larger public service standpoint and that such teachers 
will also be selected in subjects other than Home Economics. 



TERMINOLOGY AND THE SMITH-HUGHES BILL' 

HELEN KINNE 
Teachers College, Columbia University 

In view of the fact that there is at this writing no accepted termi- 
nology in the field of Home Economics with reference to vocational 
education, it seems necessary to make as defmite a statement as pos- 
sible in regard to several phases of this subject. 

The syllabus published by the American Home Economics Associ- 
ation gives a very complete classification of the many subjects included 
in this field as a whole. In the lower schools we can recognize several 
groupings or methods of treatment of selected topics dependent upon 
the aim in a given school. 

• Presented at a preliminary mectinR of the Committee of the N.S.P.I.K. on the Smith- 
Hughes Bill. 



1916] TERMINOLOGY AND THE SMITH-HUGHES BILL 187 

A. The study of certain topics related to the home, and also so closely 
to the life of each individual that they make for personal efhciency 
may be part of the general education of any girl, or boy even. This 
may appear either in the elementary or secondary school. It includes 
practice in the household arts and a study of related facts and principles. 
Whether it is called domestic science and domestic art, cooking and 
sewing, household arts, or domestic economy, the name does not partic- 
ularly matter, except that a common name would make for a common 
understanding. 

B. A treatment of the subject with a definite aim for the vocation 
of home-making; that is, the giving of training to the girl which will 
fit her for the management of a home. One difTerence between "B" 
and "A" is that in the case of "B" more time must be given, more 
phases of the subject covered, and in general the courses of study must 
be more intensive as well as extensive, this treatment makes the sub- 
ject vocational, for homemaking is a pursuit or a vocation, and has 
economic value. It docs not bring a wage to the worker, but while 
the woman at home is usually spoken of as a consumer, she is quite as 
emphatically a producer in that she produces home conditions either 
for good or ill. This phase may be given to some extent in either the 
elementary or secondary field, although, in the nature of things, its 
more effective development is in the latter. 

Illustration of the difTerence between ''A" and "B": An "A" course 
in foods need include nothing more for the girl than the study of nutri- 
tive values and methods of preparation. The "B " course in foods must 
include all the practical knowledge necessary for the housekeeper — 
food production, sanitation and cost, how to market, how to care for 
food in the home, nutritive values and menus, serving, and disposal of 
waste. 

C. Here certain phases of Home Economics are given with the 
avowed purpose of wage earning. The vocation might be that of a 
dressmaker, costume designer, milliner, shopper, dietitian, tea room 
manager, lunchroom manager, assistant to any of these just mentioned, 
mother's helper or nurse maid, a general household worker or visiting 
aid. Still others are catering, the management of social affairs for the 
housekeeper, the selling of cooked foods. Some of the occupations are 
suitable for a girl of eighteen under proper conditions, and others are not. 
With any of them there must be knowledge of business methods, trade 
methods, and market conditions, with skill in the industry selected. 



188 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

How much work of this type can be given to girls of secondary age it is 
impossible now to predict. The work selected for a given school must 
always depend upon the possibility of obtaining work after the training, 
and this varies in different communities. For example, in Cincinnati, 
girls trained in the high school do some of their field work while in the 
school by going out as seamstresses in the making of clothing for babies 
and children. In another community it might be possible for girls to 
assist in housework, but wherever this is tried it is found necessary 
to guard the girls most carefully. One student at Teachers College 
reported that in her own home town in a Western State, several high 
school girls taking domestic science helped in families. 

One difficulty in this situation is the fact that in most schools "A" and 
"B" shade into each other, and that along with *'A" and "B" there 
may be a little of " C. " Nevertheless, these three methods of treatment 
are distinct from each other, or may be made so. It is perhaps unfortu- 
nate to call "A" "household arts." I can see that a course might be 
planned to be called a "personal efficiency course," the first part being 
taken by boys and girls together, to be differentiated later. Miss Alice 
Ravenhill, formerly of England, now Hvdng in British Columbia, called 
the "A" phase "hygiene," but this of course does not include the 
economic phase, which would be part of a personal efficiency course. 

Now for my understanding of the point of view of the members of the 
Commission on Vocational Education: They intend the Smith-Hughes 
Bill to provide for the training of teachers for the "B" and "C" phases, 
but not for the "A," expecting the State to train its teachers for the 
"A" type. 



A RESOLUTION PASSED FEBRUARY 25, 1916 

The American Home Economics Association assembled in Detroit 
reaffirms its approval of Federal aid to vocational education as pro- 
vided for by the Smith-Hughes Bill recommended by the President's 
Commission on National Aid to Vocational Education and now before 
Congress. The Association believes, however, that the ends to be served 
arc .so important and so diversified as to require a Federal Board, the 
members of which shall give their undivided attention to the adminis- 
tration of the act and shall be representative on the interests to be 
serve.] . 



STUDENTS' CONTRIBUTIONS 

PASTRY 

Miss Emma L. Taylor, Montana State College, '15, endeavored to 
determine the difference between plain paste made with cold water 
and that made with warm water. The question had arisen in another 
college. One student volunteered the statement that her mother always 
made excellent pastry with warni water. 

In following out the problem weighed amounts of dry ingredients and 
a measured quantity of water were used. Thus the two crusts were 
identical in every way excepting in the temperature of the water used. 
With water at 35°C. or 97° F., or above, the pastry had a mealy feel in 
the mouth as compared to the paste made with cold water at 15°C. or 
59° F. This was invariably the result in every experiment. The 
mealy feel was not undesirable, nor particularly noticeable, excepting 
when carefully compared with the cold water paste. 

During the first part of the experiment it was found that the warm 
water paste was more tough and less flaky than the cold water paste. 
As more skill was gained in manipulation, this difference gradually 
disappeared. The two pastes were equally tender and flaky. 

The conclusions drawn from the work are: 

1 . Good pastry may be made with warm water. 

2. Warm water gives a paste with a mealy feel. 

3. More time is required for manipulation when warm water is used. 

4. More flour is required on the board when warm water is used. 

5. When exposed to the atmosphere at room temperature the warm 
water paste absorbs moisture more readily than does cold water paste. 

6. Cold water is more desirable than warm water for pastry. 

THE COLLEGE GIRL'S WARDROBE 

Miss Mae Myers, Montana State College, '15, worked out the fol- 
lowing data on the minimum cost of a college girl's wardrobe for one 
year. All garments where the amount of material is listed are to be 
made at home. The prices, as listed, represent the prevailing prices 
during 1914—15, at Bozeman, Montana. They are representative of 
prices in this section of the West. 

189 



Girl's minimum wardrobe for one college year. All clothing made at home 



KUMBEK 


ARTICLE 


. MATERIAL 


YARDS 


COST PER 
ARTICLE 


YEARS 

TO 
WEAR 


APPROX- 
IMATE 
YEARLY 
COST 


6 


Undervests 


Cotton gauze 




SO 08i 


1 


SO. 50 


2 


Corsets 


Cotton 




1.25 


1 


2.50 


4 


Drawers (knit) 


Cotton 




0.25 


2 


0.50 


3 


Union suits 


Hea\'y cotton 




1.00 


2 


1.50 


4 


Corset covers 


Cambric 


u 


0.20 


1 


0.80 


2 


Petticoats 


Gingham 


2i 


0.45 


2 


0.45 


1 


Petticoat 


Sateen 




0.39 


1 


0.39 


1 


Petticoat 


Muslin 




o.so 


1 


0.50 


1 


Petticoat 


Muslin 




0.75 


2 


0.38 


2 


NightgowTis 


Muslin 




0.49 


1 


0.98 


2 


Nightgowns 


Outing 




0.80 


2 


0.80 


6pr. 


Hosiery 


Cotton 




0.25 


1 


1.50 


Ipr. 


Hosiery 


Silk (Phoenuc) 




0.75 


1 


0.75 




Kimona 


Cotton crepe 


4J 


0.80 


2 


0.40 


1 pr. 


Slippers 


Felt 




0.75 


2 


0.38 


2pr. 


Shoes 






3.50 


U 


6.00 


1 pr. 


Shoes 


Tennis 




0.75 


3 


0.25 


1 pr. 


Slippers 


Dancing 




3.00 


2 


1.50 


1 pr. 


Low shoes 






2.50 


1 


2.50 


Ipr. 


Rubbers 






0.85 


1 


0.85 




Skirt 


Wool 




8.00 


3 


2.67 




Coat (winter) 


Wool 




30.00 


3 


10.00 




Coat (light) 


Wool 




18.00 


4 


4.50 




Coat (rain) 






5.00 


2 


2.50 




Sweater 


Wool 




5.00 


4 


1.25 




Waists 


Lingerie 


4 


0.75 


1 


1.50 




Waists 


Wool 


4 


1.50 


3 


1.00 




Waist 


Silk 


3 


3.50 


2 


1.75 




Dress (blue) 


Serge 


4 


6.00 


3 


2.00 




Skirt (white) 


Duck 


3 


0.75 


2 


0.38 




Middy (white) 


Duck 




1.25 


2 


0.63 




Dress (white) 


Voile 


5i 


2.25 


2 


1.13 




Dress (light) 


Lawn 


6 


1.50 


2 


0.75 




Dress (party) 


Light silk 


6 


4 00 


2 


2.00 




Hat (winter and fall) 






6 00 


2 


3.00 


1 


Hat (spring) 






5.00 


2 


2.50 


1 


Cap (winter) 






0.65 


3 


0.22 




Cap (rain) 






0.65 


3 


n 


1 i)r. 


Heavy gloves 


Kid 




1.25 


U 


1.00 


1 pr. 


Long gloves 


Silk 




1.50 


2 


0.75 


1 pr. 


Short gloves 


Cotton chamois 




0.75 


2 


0.38 




MufT 


Plush 




5.00 


4 


1.25 




Riding Skirt 


Khaki 


8 


2 25 


2 


1.13 




Accessories 










l^ * 


24 


Handkerchiefs 
Pins, Belts, Ribbons, 


etc. 




05 


1 


2.00] 
3.00 


Total 


1 


$70.44 







190 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

THE WOMAN OF TODAY 

It is my opinion that no eighteenth century critic could emphasize 
more strongly the value of good housekeeping than does the woman of 
today, but this woman of today finds that she is needed in civic house- 
keeping, in national housekeeping. 

The home is hers to rule and save by wisdom and grace, but the 
solidarity of life makes it necessary for her to save other homes with hers. 
Her care for her own children widens out with true knowledge of con- 
ditions and leads her into the care of all children. 

Our ideal woman of today has the house-motherly instinct of the past, 
trained and disciplined, broadened in scope, deepened in power, pene- 
trated with an even more enduring and subtle charm, and she brings 
this, not in a strident demand for rights, but as her contribution to the 

upbuilding of the nation's life. 

Myra Reynolds, 

University of Chicago. 



NOVELTY VERSUS QUALITY 

CHARLOTTE GIBBS BAKER 

With the revolutionar>' changes which have come about in the manu- 
facture of materials there has come a change in the standards set by 
women buyers. When silks sold for much higher prices a silk dress 
was supposed to last for many seasons, often many years. It was not 
an uncommon thing in the early days of this country to bequeath a 
dress, just as one did a teaspoon or other valued possession; the heir 
perhaps prized the dress more than the spoon. Linens, spun and 
woven by hand, likewise were handed on from mother to daughter, as 
were the lovely soft homespun blankets and the much prized coverlets. 

The days of hand spinning and weaving are past; silks, in fact all ma- 
terials, have by modem processes been reduced in price and often at 

191 



192 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

the same time in quality. Few of our dresses would last to hand on to 
the next generation if we tried to keep them, and from a hygienic stand- 
point perhaps it is just as well that they will not. There are more 
fabrics on the market now from which to choose our wardrobes, and the 
prices of these pemiit a new gown more often than of old. New con- 
ditions have been created; we must not sigh for the old but study the 
new. 

It is a well recognized fact that, in one way at least, women have met 
the new conditions, since they are quite willing to buy quantities of 
materials. When fashion says the old dress will no longer do, women 
wallingly follow her dictates. Because it is well known that fashion will 
not be slow in dictating a change, women have come to be content 
with materials which they know will not wear long. The demand for 
variety requires new materials as well as new styles in dress. 

The manufacturer, far from discouraging this demand on the part 
of women, does all he can to encourage it. Each season brings its 
quota of new names, new weaves, new finishes, new colors, new designs, 
new combinations of materials. Sometimes the name is attached to a 
very sHght modification of a well known fabric; sometimes it repre- 
sents an entirely new product of the designer's imagination. Often the 
new fabric is excellent, and finds its place among the standard materials 
which have stood the test of time. Sometimes, having no real merit, it 
is soon lost in oblivion. 

A new fabric entails some risk upon the manufacturer, though he 
does not produce one until assured by the dictators of fashion that it 
will be encouraged, and his output is gauged by the advance orders of 
the buyers. A new material often means new machiner>', perhaps new 
processes to be taught to the workmen, and different raw materials. 
The continued success of a novelty may be doubtful, and so the profit 
must come while the sale is good. The wholesale and the retail mer- 
chant also run some risk with the new material, and the first prire 
must be sufficiently high to insure against loss if it does not continue 
to sell well. When a fabric has real merit aside from the fact that it 
is a novelty, the risk is less. 

These conditions, together with the fact that women will pay well 
for a new thing, tend to make the prices high when a fabric first appears 
on the counters. This price is not necessarily proportionate to the 
quality of the material, its composition, or its wearing quality. Often 
a novelty sells for as much as, or more than, a standard material superior 



1916] NOVELTY VERSUS QUALITY 193 

in every way. Later in the season when it is no longer a novelty the 
fabric may appear on the bargain counter much reduced in price. Of 
course standard fabrics are also marked down at certain seasons, but the 
reduction is usually not so great. 

It may be well to explain that "standard" fabrics mean those materials 
familiar to all buyers of clothing and house furnishings, which vary little 
from year to year, in which a certain price means a certain grade of 
fabric, and which may be found from season to season. Among these 
may be mentioned broadcloth, serge, velvet, satin, Hnen huck, crash, 
cambric, longcloth, gingham, and many others. These materials in 
some details vary from year to year yet keep their general characteristics, 
so that one is able to recognize an old friend. Compare with these a 
Swiss, its design of paste only printed on; an attractive enough material 
at first sight but very disappointing when the dots come off in washing, 
or turn brown under the iron. This material, now no longer on the mar- 
ket, was certainly a novelty and a striking example of the extravagance 
of novelties. 

Another novelty poor in value was a silk and cotton, largely cotton, 
imitation crepe de chine which came out last spring. The material was 
printed in colors following the vogue for figured crepe de chine. The 
general effect was very good and the material attractive and worth buy- 
ing for a reasonable price. The early spring cost of the fabric was 98 
cents, the price of a very fair grade of all silk crepe de chine, though at 
that time the figured ones cost more. A few weeks later, even before 
warm weather came, the cheaper fabric appeared in the windows for 
67 cents a yard, a price much more commensurate with its value. 

Frequently the poor grade novelty is an imitation of the higher priced 
and at the same time good quality novelty. In either case the price 
is usually high for the product obtained, but the wearing quality of the 
better grade is often proportionate to its greater cost. Novelties are 
perhaps most disappointing in wash materials, as the colors are likely 
to be fleeting, the fabric may not hold its shape, or may muss badly, 
or be otherwise unsatisfactory. Actual wearing quality is of course 
not the only requisite for a satisfactory fabric; it is quite as necessary 
that it retain its appearance. A material which depends for its appear- 
ance more upon the finish than upon the quality of the thread, weave, 
and dye, is likely to become shabby from wear. 

The woman who would dress herself and family economically needs 
to consider carefully whether she will be tempted by things which have 



194 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

not been tried out. More than one woman has remarked that she 
makes up her mind to try a novelty just a'bout the time it goes out. 
This means that there are many styles she never tries. Is it a coinci- 
dence that it is usually a well dressed woman who makes this remark? 
It is the extreme which she avoids, but when a thing has been well 
tried she adopts it. Unless one has time and money to spend freely 
it is always safer to wait until the novelty is found to be meritorious and 
becomes a standard material worth purchasing. 

The increase in the use of ready made garments has had its influence 
on the change of standards in fabrics. When one spends hours of hard 
work making a garment, or when one pays a good price to a dress- 
maker or tailor it seems worth while to buy a good material and to 
expect good wearing quality. When, on the other hand, one walks 
into a store and puts on a ready-made garment, at a price which seems 
remarkably low, it is not so surprising that the question of the quality 
is often neglected. The styles in ready made clothes are often extreme, 
and the workmanship not always of the best, and so it sometimes seems 
unnecessary to expect material that will wear long. 

Such are some of the conditions as we find them today. They must 
be faced by every woman who buys and she must determine how it 
is best for her to buy. Shall she get good material, avoiding the ex- 
treme fad, and making quaUty her standard, or shall she buy the thing 
of the hour, economizing if she must on quality and discarding the 
garment more quickly? The answer to this will depend largely on 
one's standard of good dressing, though other factors will also influence 
it. The question of one's personality and one's needs must enter in, the 
consideration of the market in which one buys, one's skill in buying, and 
again the question of the expense of making the garment. Sometimes 
one must have a certain type of dress, as an evening dress, for a few oc- 
casions when the wear is not great; in such a case a good eflect may be 
obtained for a moderate expense. On the other hand a street dress 
must stand the weather and hard wear, and so in this there is greater 
need for good material. 

There are many very beautiful materials on the market today; if we 
could have a longer period for wearing our dresses more of us could 
afford these luxurious fabrics. Too often we have made quantity the 
standard, and as a result the quality has sufTcred. 

In house furnishings there has been less tendency toward novelties, 
but judging from the exhibits of the last year, even here we are pressed 



1916] RENNET CUSTARD 195 

to follow fashion. It is to the interest of the manufacturer and of the 
interior decorator that we have changing styles in our houses, and if we 
allow they will so dictate. 

Women who are making serious study of the problems of house man- 
agement, and the wise spending of the family income, need to consider 
well this question of standards, to balance carefully the value obtained 
and the money spent, and to know upon what properties they wish to 
place the emphasis. 



RENNET CUSTARD— THE DISH THAT MAKES ITSELF 

ELIZABETH DUBOIS BACHE 
Secretary Washington, D. C, Home Economics Association 

Rennet custard is a simple, dainty dessert, economical, nutritious and 
easily prepared. The custard is readily digested and so is especially 
fitted to the diet of those of weak digestion. It is made by the addition 
of a little junket or rennet to lukewarm, sweetened milk. It cannot be 
made with evaporated, dried, sterilized or malted milk, but can be made 
with either pasteurized or fresh milk. 

The tablets are prepared from the calf's stomach and contain the 
digestive enz>Tne rennin which coagulates the curd of milk, a process 
similar to that taking place in the digestion of milk in the human 
stomach. 

Until recently, most housekeepers have known little about the tem- 
perature that is necessary for making rennet custard and have guessed 
at the time with correspondingly varying results. In answer to in- 
quiries among housewives, it is found that many do not know what 
rennet is and others have termed it "risky" to make. This is not so, 
if the general principles are understood. 

The following table gives some general conclusions, formulated by 
many experiments. 

Aim: (1) To determine the temperature and time limits for favor- 
able action of rennet in making rennet custard. (2) To ascertain the 
effect on the action, (a) of increasing the amount used, (b) of putting in 
different shaped dishes. (3) To compare the action of the fresh with the 
stale tablet. 



196 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



Limils for good action: Temperature— 80° F. to 120° F. Time — 4 
minutes to 1 hour. 

Recipe used as basis: 1 cupful of milk (pasteurized) ; ::.' tablespoonfuls 
of sugar; | rennet tablet (or 1 teaspoonful pepsin); 1 teaspoonful of cold 
water. 

Comparison of temperatures and time H 



Hansen's, one-fourth tablet 

Hansen's one-half tablet 

Hansen's fresh from labor- 
atory 

Wyeth's one-fourth tablet 

VVyeth's, one-half tablet 



Wyeth's fresh from labor- 
atory 
Wyeth's liquid rennet 
Fairchild's liquid pepsin 



TEMPERl- 
TUKE 



Hansen's, one-fourth tablet 



98° F 





6 min. 




4 min. 


95° F. 


14 min. 


90° F. 


14 min. 


80° F. 


60 min. 


40° F. 





110° F. 
115° F. 

120° F. 



130° F. 
140° F. 
150° F. 



8 min. 

4 min. 
8 min. 

30 min. 

12 to 15 
min. 

30 min. 



GENERAL CONCLUSIONS 



10 min. 
10 min. 

12 min. 



14 min. 
2hrs. 
Several 
hours 



This takes the same length of time to 
form in any deep dish, whether a bowl 
or custard cup. It takes longer in a 
shallow dish as it cools quickly. 

Doubling the amount of rennet used 
lessens the time, but makes a firmer, 
less delicate custard. 

Action of the tablet fresh from the 
laboratory is not any quicker than 
the store tablets. 

This makes a custard of softer con- 
sistency, taking a longer time. 

Do.abling the amount of this rennet 
lessens the time but does not seem to 
affect consistency. 

Same as in case of Hansen's. 

Liquid rennet acts a little more quick- 
ly than the tablets. 

)The length of time gradually increases 
with the decrease in temperature. 

There is no action. .Action begins again 
when placed in a warm room, as the 
enzyme is not killed. 

}As the temperature increases the ac- 
tion is gradually slower. 

.\bout the highest temperature at which 
the action of the rennet is sure. 

This custard is of a soft consistency. 

This custard is very soft and the action 
is uncertain. 



1916] SOME SUGGESTIONS FOR FLY CONTROL 197 

SOME SUGGESTIONS FOR FLY CONTROL LN THE HOME 

The great importance of beginning early in the spring to apply meas- 
ures for reducing the number of flies in the home is evident when one 
remembers the rapidity with which the house fly breeds. The female 
lays about 120 eggs at one time and in fairly warm climates from ten 
to twelve generations of flies may be produced during one season. Every 
fly killed during the spring is worth hundreds killed later, since the 
progeny of one pair of flies surviving the winter may number several 
million by fall. Such measures as screening and swatting and the use 
of sticky fly papers, poisons, and fly traps are well known and prove 
effective in reducing the number of flies in the home, but it has been 
shown conclusively within the past few years that the most eflfective 
means of controlling flies is to prevent their breeding by eliminating the 
breeding places. From early spring until late fall every housekeeper 
should make great efforts to prevent the breeding of flies about her 
home and grounds. In many cities and towns this matter is looked 
after as far as possible by the local health officers but the housekeeper 
can and should cooperate with them in looking after her own premises 
and in calling to the attention of the authorities any serious neglect 
of duty on the part of neighbors, for the good resulting from the efforts 
of one person may be undone by the presence of fly breeding nuisances 
in the neighborhood. 

The chief breeding places of the house fly are in manure, especially 
horse manure, in which the females lay their eggs by preference, appar- 
ently, and in other forms of deca>-ing organic matter. The larva or 
maggot which issues from the egg develops, within a few days, into the 
pupa, previous to which the maggot migrates to the edge of the manure 
pile or burrows into the ground. The adult fly emerges from the pupa 
in from eight to twelve days after the eggs are laid. 

To prevent fly breeding in stables, they must be kept clean and free 
from manure, damp straw and other decaying organic material. The 
floors should be tight so that the larvae cannot burrow into the ground, 
there to develop into flies. The manure should be kept in a fly-proof 
bin and tightly covered; in towns and cities it should be removed at 
least twice a week during the summer and once a week during the 
winter. Many cities and towns have ordinances which require that 
stables and manure shall be so kept that they will not be nuisances. 
With proper care and cooperation with the authorities on the part of 



198 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

stable owners, it should be possible to reduce greatly the number of 
flies in cities. In the country the prevention of fly breeding is more 
difficult, since, as a rule, the manure must be kept on the place and used 
as fertilizer. There are, however, two practical methods of handhng 
manure wliich do not injure its fertilizing value and which at the 
same time keep it from becoming a place for fly breeding. 

One method is the use of a maggot trap. In this, the manure is placed 
on a slatted platform which stands on the floor of a concrete basin con- 
taining about one inch of water. The manure is kept moist either with 
water or liquid wastes from the stable and under these conditions the 
maggots in migrating to find a place to pupate fall into the water and are 
drowned. Experiments have shown that tliis device destroys about 
99 per cent of all the maggots in the manure. The construction and 
operation of this maggot trap is described in detail in a bulletin of the 
Department of Agriculture.^ A similar form of trap has been devised 
by the Richmond (Va.), Health Department. This consists of a barrel 
with holes bored in the bottom or fitted with a bottom of stout wire 
netting; the barrel is placed on bricks in a tub containing a few inches 
of water. 

Another method is to treat the manure with chemicals. Experi- 
ments carried out in the Department of Agriculture have shown that a 
solution of one-half pound of hellebore in 10 gallons of water appHed to 
8 bushels of manure will kill from 85 to 98 per cent of the maggots breed- 
ing in manure and has no deleterious effects on the manure itself. A 
solution of one pound of powdered borax in 12 gallons of water and 
applied to every 12 bushels of manure will kill from 90 to 99 per cent 
of the maggots. This is less satisfactory in some ways than hellebore. 
Borax is also effective in treatment of stable floors and similar places to 
prevent fly breeding. 

Since flies breed in other kinds of manure than horse manure and in 
such material as garbage, rotting vegetables, or any decaying orK?nic 
matter, which is undergoing fermentation, all such material should be 
destroyed or so treated as to prevent the breeding of flies. Yards should 
be kept clean; garbage should be stored in tightly covered cans and the 
contents of privies should be treated with borax and also tightly 
screened. By such methods, the breeding of flies is prevented and the 
number will be further reduced through starvation. 

'U. S. Drpt. Agr. Hiil. 200 (1915), pp. 15. 



1916] THE COUNTY AGENT AND THE HOME 199 

In addition to the prevention of fly breeding, efforts must also be 
made to keep flies from the house. All windows should be tightly 
screened, preferably with wire netting covering the whole opening, 
but even cloth netting tacked over the windows will do if no better 
substitute can be had. Outside doorways should have tightly fitting 
screen doors, opening outward with self-closing devices if necessary. 
Flies gaining access to the house should be killed by "swatting" or other 
measures. The use of fly paper is effective for this purpose. Commer- 
cial paper can be bought or a home-made substitute can be prepared by 
heating, until dissolved, 2 pounds of rosin in a pint of castor oil and then 
applying it to sheets of paper with a brush. Fly poisons are also effec- 
tive. A solution of one teaspoonful of commercial formalin (40 per cent 
strength) in one cup of milk or water may be exposed in shallow dishes; 
preferably no other liquid should be accessible to the flies. This solu- 
tion is not poisonous to man and is safer than fly poisons containing 
arsenic; it should, however, be put out of the reach of children. Pyre- 
thum powder may be burned in the rooms to kill the flies. Insect powder 
blown into the air is said to stun flies so that they may be swept up and 
then destroyed. Fly traps are also effective especially around kitchen 
doors and near stables, outhouses, etc. There are a number of traps 
on the market which are said to be very satisfactory. 

The danger of the housefly as a carrier of disease is too well known to 
need emphasis on the importance of fly preventive measures in conserv- 
ing health. By effectively applying the methods described above it 
should be possible to reduce greatly the number of flies around any 
home even though they cannot be ehminated entirely. 



THE COUNTY AGENT AND THE HOME 

Every one is beginning to reaUze that the great education move- 
ment that is fostered by government and state aid and of which county 
agent activities are a part, is of the greatest advantage to the home. 
Requests for aid in studying and solving home problems are beginning 
to receive as general a response as is given to the problems of the farm. 

The Department of Agriculture has lately in a circular of informa- 
tion told us that nearly 400 women county agents are now at work in 



200 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

the 15 Southern States. These agents assist the farm women in their 
territory in much the same way that their men colleagues assist the 
farmers. 

At first these women devoted themselves largely to the formation and 
supervision of canning clubs. Now, however, much of their time is 
spent in home demonstration work with the mothers as well as with the 
girls. The opportunities that this field offers are illustrated by the re- 
cent meetings of a Virginia home demonstration club. The club was 
organized in June, with 12 members, which grew almost at once to a 
membership of 25. So many applications for membership came in that 
it has been necessary to form other clubs so that each organization may 
not be too large to do efficient work. 

The construction of a homemade fireless cooker at a cost of 25 cents, 
with its saving of labor, time, and fuel, suggested other devices that 
were worked out by the women themselves. 

Among these were the "scrubbing chariot," consisting of a comfort- 
able padded frame mounted on four flat rollers, and enabling the house- 
wife to save many steps in wiping and scrubbing floors and cleaning 
woodwork. It was made at a cost of 47 cents. 

A companion convenience to the fireless cooker was the milk cooler 
or iceless refrigerator, which was constructed in general in accordance 
with the directions furnished by the department. The homemade 
shower bath, the roller tray wagon for use in carrying dishes from the 
kitchen to the dining table, and a folding ironing board and cover were 
among the other improvements suggested or developed. 

The interest taken by the women in this kind of work is indicated by 
the fact that the county agents have now enrolled approximately 6000 
farm women as home demonstrators. These demonstrators agree to 
adopt some household improvement and to furnish in this way an object 
lesson to their neighbors, or they agree to carry on certain demonstrations 
under the supervision of the county agents. Some very successful dem- 
onstrations have been made in cooking, in improving sanitary condi- 
tions, in winter gardening, in poultry work, and in home dairying. In 
addition, they agree to report to the county agents at the end of the 
year the results which they have obtained. 

These practical object lessons are most efficient ways of arousing in- 
terest and carrying conviction. A Georgia woman, for example, who 
had been shown the use of the milk separator, and better methods of 
butter making, wrote recently that some of lur neighbors came for 



1916] THE RIPENING OF CREAM 201 

miles to see her churn. The fact, she said, that she was getting 30 
cents a pound for her butter instead of 20 cents had done a great deal 
in making her neighbors want to learn to make better butter. The 
use of the thermometer, in particular, attracted their attention. 
Before seeing it in operation they had not considered the importance 
of having the cream at the right temperature. Incidentally, this woman 
wrote that her husband was taking much interest in the work and 
was planning how to fix the barn and feed room in order to aid his 
wife in her butter making. 

This work has been in existence for about five years. It began with 
the organization of girls' canning clubs in two states in 1910. These 
girls' clubs, however, while important in themselves, were from another 
standpoint regarded as a stepping stone to further home demonstration 
work for the farm women. At the beginning of the movement one of 
the founders wrote: 

The direct object is to teach some one simple straightforward lesson to 
the girls on the farm which will open the way to their confidence and that 
of their mothers, and which will, at the same time, open their eyes to the 
possibilities of adding to the family income through simple work in and 
about the home. 



THE RIPENING OF CREAM 

By the ripening of cream is meant the changes it undergoes from the 
time of separation until it is added to the churn. Upon these changes 
depends very largely the quality of butter as regards texture and flavor. 
The temperature at which cream is held determines the firmness or 
texture, while the flavor is dependent upon the by-products from the 
bacterial growth. 

The purpose of ripening cream is fundamentally that of giving the 
butter the desired flavor and aroma, but in addition it increases the 
ease and efficiency of churning. Cream is ripened in one of two ways: 

First, it sours or ripens as a result of the action of bacteria which 
are normally present in milk and cream; or, second, it ripens as a result 
of action of certain kinds of bacteria which are added in what is termed 
a "starter." 



202 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

HOUSEHOLD MEASUREMENTS 

The United States Government does not overlook the homemaker 
and her problems. We need sometimes to recall the varied work of 
the Department of Agriculture for the improvement and regulation of 
our food supply as well as the specific studies in its Office of Home 
Economics of the use in the home of agricultural products for food, 
clothing, and household equipment. The Department of the Interior 
through its Bureau of Education, and the Treasury Department through 
its Public Health Service are studying questions and sending out Utera- 
ture on subjects that concern the home. The Children's Bureau of the 
Department of Labor, has made itself widely known by its extended 
work for the welfare and the care and management of the child. 

The introduction of new foods, the devising of methods for utilization 
of food that now goes to waste, and the issuing of bulletins also form 
part of the activities of the Department of Commerce. 

One of the most helpful of these bulletins is the circular of the Bureau 
of Standards called "Measurements for the Household" that may be 
obtained from the Superintendent of Documents for 45 cents. This 
was issued August, 1915, and a revised edition is already in prepara- 
tion. The Bureau offers to answer any questions on the subject of the 
circular and welcomes any suggestions for the new edition. Some of 
the topics included are the measurement of commodities; heat and 
its measure; electricity and gas with a description of the meters; 
some of the apparatus less often used in the household such as hy- 
drometers; and many instructions for better use of these measuring 
appliances, with further information that will help in administering a 
household. The practical suggestions vary from the setting and regu- 
lating a clock, the determining the coldest place in the refrigerator, and 
the various uses of different kinds of thermometers, the purchase not 
only of food, but of coal and other fuels, to a description of deceptive 
methods of unscrupulous dealers and ways to control them. 

One chapter discusses kitchen measures and standardizes them, giving 
at the same time the various measures of capacity, including the metric 
system. 

The comparison of household processes with those of modern industry 
is made with this statement: "Modern industry owes its clTicicncy 
largely to careful measurements which control processes or fix the dimen- 
sions, proportions and properties of products. Measurement guides 
the processes of all industries and keeps their output up to certain 
standards." 



EDITORIAL 

Some Guides for Feminine Energy. A notable address was de- 
livered by Dean Gildersleeve of Barnard* before the New York Delta 
of the Phi Beta Kappa Society, on the twenty-fifth anniversary of the 
founding of Barnard College. Like that delivered by Miss Lathrop at 
the recent semi-centennial at Vassar, this offers hope that order ma> soon 
appear out of the chaos of recent ideas regarding women and their place 
in present day society. Miss Gildersleeve traces the changes which 
have gradually been releasing a large store of women's energy from the 
tasks of homemaking and points out that this surplus energy must fmd 
some useful and honorable means of expression. It is because of the 
lack of such outlet that so much feminine energy has lately been running 
to waste in restless and somewhat misdirected activities. 

Such recent organizations as the Intercollegiate Bureau of Occupations 
and the League for Business Opportunities for Women represent con- 
certed effort to study the conditions in occupations suitable for trained 
women, and to guide those seeking employment into positions which 
will bring to the community the full value of each worker's training and 
ability. In the belief of the speaker much of this newly released energy 
will go into newly developed occupations, especially those which, in a 
large sense, call for the "instinct for preserving life," social service, 
homemaking on a public scale, legal work in connection with social 
betterment movements, and others. Soon, too, we may hope that 
means will be found not only for utilizing the energy of the woman who 
does not marr>', but also for giving society the benefit of married women 
during the years when their children do not need their entire attention. 
As Dean Gildersleeve says in closing, the wonder is not that the "new 
woman" should occasionally appear "an intruding, abnormal, vocifer- 
ous and rather dangerous creature," but rather that we are so rapidly 
succeeding in directing her energies into helpful and honorable fields, 
and in working out "amid new and rather perplexing conditions, a situa- 
tion in which happiness may best prosper, and the old kindly human 
affections find full and free play." 

' Some Guides for Feminine Energy. Virginia C. Gildersleeve, Columbia University 
Quarterly, 17 (1915), no. 4, pp. 363-375. 

203 



204 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

Some Comments on the "Woman's Movement." In a similar 
way Mr. Walter Lippman in his "Drift and Mastery" calls attention in 
his chapter on The Woman's Movement, to the fact of ' ' the absolute 
necessity for a readjusting of woman's position." He says "Housekeep- 
ing and baby-rearing are the two most primitive arts in the whole world. 
They are almost the last occupations in which rule of thumb and old 
wives' tales have resisted the application of scientific method. They 
are so immemorially backward, that nine people out of ten hardly 
conceive the possibility of improving upon them. They are so back- 
ward that we have developed a maudlin sentimentality about them, 
have associated family Hfe and the joy in childhood with all the stu- 
pidity and wasted labor of the inefficient home." 

He questions whether in the readjustment women should be urged to 
go into industry as it exists today believing that " the army of women 
in industry is not a blessing, but the curse of a badly organized society," 
and that "for the great mass, women's work in the future will be in the 
application of the arts and sciences to a deepened and more extensively 
organized home." 

He explains that this does not mean a narrowing of her opportunities 
or even that women need not concern themselves with industry; it 
means that they must develop an intelligent consumer's control, that 
they must get into pohtics, since the home in a hundred ways touches 
upon all its ramifications. They must deal with the school and with 
education in all its phases. 

It also means cooperative organization, division of labor and speciali- 
zation in the home. 

He says, "To be paid for work in money is possible only when you 
don't do all the work. So the moment you divide the work the only 
way you can share the product is by paying money to each other. A 
woman who does her own cooking gets no pay. A woman who does 
someone else's cooking gets pay. And when women introduce into the 
work of the home the principle of division of labor and cooperative 
organization, they also will receive pay, and what is called 'economic 
independence' will be open to them." 

He adds, "It is curious how little faith conservatives have in the insti- 
tution of the family. They will tell you how deep it is in the needs of 
mankind, and they will turn around and act as if the home were so 
fragile that collapse would follow the first whifT of criticism." 

"We do almost no single, sen.sible, and deliberate thing to make 



I 



1916] CXDMMENT AND DISCUSSION 205 

family life a success. And still the family survives. It has survived 
all manner of stupidity. It will survive the application of intelligence." 

However we may disagree with Mr. Lippman, particularly in regard 
to his attitude toward women in industry, we shall all be willing to 
acknowledge that we are still "in medias res," and that our traditions 
are failing to guide us out of the maze in which we find ourselves. 

We need creative thinkers. We need open minds. We need courage 
— and we need most of all an atmosphere in the home that shall imbue 
the child with true democracy. 

To this readjustment of woman and the home to modem conditions 
the American Home Economics Association should contribute something 
more than indefinite suggestions. 

It should give the concrete help of proved methods; it should venture 
to formulate new traditions; it should blaze the trail toward a new 
understanding and a new outlook. 

We have followed long enough. Let us lead. 



COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 

COOKERY UNIFORMS IN ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS 

To extend into the realm of schools lower than college and normal, 
your recent discussion of uniforms in the cookery laboratory, it will be 
interesting to know how Dartmouth, Mass., handled her problem. 

Believing that a uniform is an absolute necessity in a cookery labora- 
tory, first, because it is a sanitary covering over a possibly undesirable 
dress; second, because the general appearance of a class is much more 
workmanlike and therefore grading more equably determined, we started 
making equipment in the sewing classes in Grade V in the following 
order: hand towel, holder, circular cap and h'gh-neck, long-sleeve apron. 

We used for the apron and holder a ladies' cloth at twelve cents per 
yard which has a desirable firmness yet not undue weight. For the 
towels we were able to get remnants of Russia crash at eight cents per 
yard, and for the caps dotted muslin at twelve cents was dainty and 
effective. Each girl paid fifty cents for material and successfully accom- 
plished the making of these articles with the previous year's experience in 



206 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

Grade IV work, so that on entering the sixth grade cookery course she 
was neatly equipped and in readiness for work. 

Seven minutes is sufficient time for the pupils to remo\ e their wraps, 
don their uniforms conveyed in small suitcases, and appear in the lab- 
oratory, ready to pass in review on their way to the hand-bowls. The 
teacher inspects the appearance and detects any apron not freshly laun- 
dered, any holder or towel missing or a loop from either, a button gone, 
a stray lock escaping from beneath the cap, or carelessly groomed hands. 

It will be seen from the requirements that the uniform is to be freshly 
laundered after each lesson of two hours and a half once in two weeks, 
and that caps are worn to cover all the hair that if braided may be coiled 
about the head before the cap is put on. 

At the beginning of the second year the course was extended through 
grades seven to nine. The cap of the first year high school girls, to 
distinguish them from the elementary grades, was a simple Dutch cap, 
capable of being drawn closely around the face. 

The simplicity, yet effectiveness of the uniform commends it. 

At-ice Rowland Macomber, 
Supervisor Domestic Science, Dartmouth, Mass. 

For lack of space we cannot publish the patterns and photographs that accompanied 
this article, but we shall be glad, with Miss Macomber's permission, to send the cuts to any- 
one who desires to obtain them. — The Editor. 



ANNOUNCEMENT 

The Journal of Home Economics, with the consent of the Council, 
has been selected as the official organ of the Home Economics Section 
of the Central Association of Science and Mathematics Teachers. 

The announcements of that Association will in the future appear in 
the Journal, while the chairman of the section has agreed to furnish 
to the Journal a certain number of articles especially for high school 
teachers. 

The Journal on its part, while not neglecting other phases of the 
work, is planning to consider more definitely than ever before the inter- 
ests of the secondary school and welcomes to its constituency this body 
of high school teachers. 

May this cooperation be of value both to the Central Association and 
to the American Home Economics Association. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
Journal of Home Ek:oNOMics if the Journal price is listed. 



School Credit for Home Work. By L. R. 
Alderman. Boston: Houghton Mifflin 
Company, 1915, pp. 181. $1. By mail 
of the Journal, $1.07. 

The idea of establishing habits of home- 
making is by no means new. The peda- 
gogical view, however, that the school should 
give credit for industrial work performed at 
home is by no means widespread. The 
educational value of such things as the fol- 
lowing has been inadequately estimated: 
helping with the supper, the kitchen work, 
putting a bedroom in order, milking a cow, 
making butter, feeding the pigs, mowing 
the lawn, blackening the stove, preparing 
smaller children for school, building furnace 
fires, taking care of plants and flowers, iron- 
ing clothes, mending, making bread, building 
fires and splitting wood. 

Mr. Alderman's book is divided into two 
parts, the first of which is somewhat emo- 
tional and persuasive in character. He 
illustrates in various stories the methods 
by which some teachers may succeed in 
revealing "hidden springs of useful interest" 
and utilize these springs to nourish correct 
habit building and character formation. 
Part two is devoted to the reproduction 
of various charts illustrative of different 
plans for giving school credit in elemen- 
tary schools and high schools. While most 
of the charts represent departures from 
traditional education and are best adapted 
for schools in rural communities, there is a 
wealth of suggestion for the adaptation of 
the plan to urban schools. The lists of sub- 
jects to be credited at school though practi- 
cally studied at home cover the fields of 
agriculture, domestic arts and manual 
training. 



The author has done his work in an appeal- 
ing way and has presented a very delightful 
and instructive method of securing closer 
cooperation between the school and the 
home. 

Child Training. By V. M. Hillyek. 
New York: The Century Company, 191. S, 
pp. 287. $1.60. 

Coming at a time when military disci- 
pline is a matter of great public moment, 
Mr. V. M. Hillyer's book on Child Training, 
with its strong insistence on Habit Drills, 
Prompt Obedience and Self Control, strikes 
an interesting note. Though Mr. Hillyer's 
aim is that of all experts in Child Training, 
namely, the early stimulation and training 
of all those phases of life which will make for 
the highest adult development and eflliciency, 
the methods he uses swing far from those 
of some of his contemporaries. Mr. Hillyer 
avoids sentimentality. His method is sim- 
ple, practical, direct; and characterized by 
a certain manly saneness that compels ad- 
miration. 

Child Training is written for parents and 
teachers of children under the school age and 
sets forth a course of training surprisingly 
varied in its scope, opening as it does so many 
avenues commonly considered closed for 
children so young. The book serves essen- 
tially as a practical guide rather than as an 
inspiration to proper child training, and the 
success of its aim depends more on the proper 
administration of its comprehensive curricu- 
lum than to the attitude of mind it engenders 
in the teacher. In this respect Mr. Hillyer 
shows himself primarily a pedagogue rather 
than a reformer. He makes no attempt to 
win one to his views, there is no proselyting 

207 



208 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



in his i)ages. He simply states his method 
with briefness and sincerity, and a perfect 
confidence in its success; a con6dence great- 
ly strengthened doubtless by the memory 
of many years as the successful head of the 
Calvert School of Baltimore. 

Modern hidustry in Relation to the Family, 
Health, Education, Morality. By Flor- 
ence Kelley. New York: Longmans, 
Green and Company, 1914, pp. 147. 
$1. By mail of the Journal, SI. 10. 

In 1907 Mrs. Kelley, writing about "Un- 
skilled Mothers" in the Century Magazine, 
said: "It oftens seems that of the baby's 
three enemies, milkman, landlord and un- 
skilled mother, the unskilled mother is the 
deadliest, because her opportunity for doing 
him harm is continuous and her means of 
attack are so varied." Seventeen years 
later Mrs. Kelly writes in Modern Industry: 
"After living more than twenty years in 
working class districts I am impressed with 
the deadly effects, in working class families, 
of two active continuing influences; the bad 
food supply and the ignorant mothers in 
relation to that supply." Mrs. Kelley's 
written and spoken words are like a steady 
incessant hammering against a rock of 
habit, ignorance and indifference. 

In the chapter on the family Mrs. Kelley 
says, with that momentary* discouragement 
that must at times come to the leader of a 
great cause: "Only little groups of reform- 
ers apply little remedies, and the continu- 
ance of the evil witnesses our failure. 
. . . . Our reformers discuss houses as 
though they were balloons, or biplanes, or 
clouds floating aloft, unrelated to the land 
on which they stand, unaffected by taxa- 
tion," and then Mrs. Kelley proceeds to give 
the relationship. To her mind facts are 
clear and convincing; she never forgets the 
connection between the tenement, the 
mothers, the sick baby, the dirty milk and 
the city and the State laws. But before 
Mrs. Kelley leaves the "family" she gives 
us the brighter side: "The era of unbridled 
power e.xerciscd by irresponsible industry at 
the cost of the family (the fundamental 



institution of the human race) is slowly 
drawing to a close." 

Mrs. Kelley never speaks in generalities, 
and she is never afraid. In the chapter on 
health she gives a vivid picture of the candy 
industry. One can almost see the room 
where the fine chocolate bon-bons are made, 
"a cool refreshing temperature, filled with 
pure air," and one can feel her indignation 
as she tells us that this is "not for the sake 
of the workers but for the candy." One is 
conscious of Mrs. Kelley's never ceasing 
fight for the children, in her descriptions of 
that candy which she calls "poisonous trash 
which mission Sunday Schools buy for their 
Christmas trees." 

"Far more would have been gained," she 
writes in the chapter on health, "if the 
energy spent in strikes for shorter working 
hours had all been directed toward enacting 
and enforcing statutes." Again and again 
she cries out "We struggle by petty retail 

measures Industry produces 

disease by wholesale." "Never was a na- 
tion so rich as we are; yet we are confronted 
by chronic, wholesale poverty, inextricably 
associated with gross ignorance." 

Mrs. Kelley always sees the truth; not 
what men call the truth. "Thou shalt not 
kill" means to her just what it says. "An 
individual murderer of an individual person 
pays with his life for his crime, but owners 
of tenement houses do not count themselves 
infanticides though the death rate of babies 
in tenements is twice as large as elsewhere. 
. . . . Builders, managers, stock and 
bond holders of factories are not punished as 
murderers, though a hundred and more men 
and women perish by fire and smoke in a 

single work room The human 

mind accepts without revolt that to which 
it is accustomed from childhood. Cannibals 
were not horrified at eating their grand- 
mothers; soldiers plan murder systematically 
years in advance." 

In the last chapter, Morality in Con- 
nection with Industry," we arc once more 
given the more hopeful view. Whether or 
not wc are aware of it, whether wc like it or 
not, we are living in the initial stages of the 



1916] 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



209 



change from work done almost universally 
for private gain, to work in the ser\'ice of 
all." 

Home Making and Home Keeping: A Text- 
book on Home Economics. By Grace J. 
Ferguson. San Juan, Porto Rico: De- 
partment of Education, 1915, pp. 278. 

This book is stated to be a text-book for 
the first two years' work in Home Economics 
in the Public Schools of Porto Rico. It em- 
braces instruction in cooking and sewing, 
and deals with the subjects in a simple form. 

The instructions throughout emphasize 
the use of home-grown fruits and vegetables, 
and at the season of the cheapest cost; also 
wherever practicable, the use of home made 
apparatus, as the oven made of an oil can. 
.A.S the importation into the islands of many 
things is expensive, it is important that one 
use the article at hand, rather than wait for 
an expensive one which perhaps may never 
be obtained. 

The same standards cannot be set for 
young students or a primitive people as for 
those more advanced, and this fact may ac- 
count for the lack of freedom allowed in the 
choice of subjects, which are very definitely 
outlined. 

The lessons follow in sequential order, 
and if rightly presented ought to make a valu- 
able course for the students. The illustrations 
used are fairly well done. It is regrettable 
that the English used in the book was not 
more carefully supervised. 

Five Playlets. By Hester Donaldson Jen- 
kins, Ph.D. Brooklyn: P. J. CoUison and 
Company, 1915, pp. 39. $9.25. 

As the introduction to this pamphlet 
states, it is written in accordance with the 
present vogue of such playlets as "a chan- 
nel of education" that should be adopted 
throughout the country. The five little 
plays, prepared for the Department of Social 
Betterment, Brooklyn Bureau of Charities, 
are written so that they can be presented 
by children or adults without much scener>' 
or costuming. Their titles suggest the 
phases of social betterment work which they 



are intended to foster: "Mother Goose Up- 
to-date," a health playlet; "Judith and 
.Ariel," a fresh air playlet; "Our Friends 
the Foods," a food playlet; " In a Tenement," 
a tenement playlet; and "Killing Giants," a 
juvenile court playlet. 

Perhaps "Our Friends the Foods" bids 
fair to be the most amusing. \ mother 
gjives a party for her boy and girl to which 
she invites Soup, Meat, Milk, Eggs, Bread, 
Cereal, Fruit, Vegetables, Pickles, Candy, 
while Tea, Coflec, Beer, Whiskey, and the 
ubiquitous Chewing Gum come uninvited. 
The various foods justify their appearance 
in rhyming speeches. Needless to say. 
Tea and Coffee are not allowed to remain 
and Beer and Whiskey are forced to take 
an even more ignominious departure, in 
spite of the wistful looks which the boy 
casts after them. In the dance which 
closes the play, all of the characters pair 
off except Chewing Gum; he is left to look 
on because he is "harmless but not good 
enough to dance at a party." There are 
those of us who feel that a noble opportunity 
has here been neglected; he really ought to 
have been driven off as summarily as the 
disgraced beverages because his manners are 
quite impossible in any decent society. 

Efficiency in the Household. By Thetta 
Quay Franks. Garden City, N. Y.: 
Doubleday, Page and Company, 1915. 

Mrs. Franks has adopted the plan laid 
out by Mrs. Richards long ago, a menu for 
three weeks, which with slight changes is 
suitable for the year round. These menus 
may be adapted to the author's needs, but 
they lack originality and offer little of value 
to others. It is a question whether each 
housekeeper may not better devise her own 
menus, suiting them to the numbers and 
physical condition of those she has to feed, 
than to depend upon any detailed plan like 
this. In general the bills of fare are intended 
for families of limited income and for use 
for household employees in more "complex" 
households, but they seem to have no scien- 
tific basis and to the reviewer seem unattrac- 
tive for the amount of money expended. 



210 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



Incidentally, one wonders whether an ex- 
penditure of $14.36 for meat, fish, eggs and 
bacon out of a total of $26.56 for food for the 
week makes a proper proportionment, and 
whether one-half pound of cofifee per day 
is not a generous allowance for six people. 

A very brief preface is all that justifies the 
title, for the book is wholly made up of 
menus, lists of foods available each month, 
and blank spaces for records of further bills 
of fare and for household expenses. 

The Treasure. By Kathleen Norms. 
New York: The Macmillan Company, 
1914, pp. 186. $1. By mail of the 
Journal, $1.08. 

.\n interesting story based on the familiar 
"sers'ant problem." Mrs. Salisbury has 
struggled more or less ineffectually for many 
years with the problem of finding a compe- 
tent maid to do for a moderate wage the 
housework for a family of five. Finally, 
worn out with her efforts to manage the 
household with the help of a slovenly maid 
through a hot summer, she has a nervous 
breakdown. Her husband and her pretty 
"modern" nineteen-year old daughter 
"Sandy" take the reins in their hands and 
engage as maid for the Salisbury family a 
graduate of the .American School of Domestic 
Science, an endowed school where young 
women are given a three or four-year course 
training them for housework. The story is 
an account of the way in which "the treas- 
ure" performed her duties and of the read- 
justments necessary between mistress and 
maid. 

The novel, while offering no complete 
solution of the servant problem, is in several 
ways distinctly suggestive. It places a 
valuable emphasis upon the necessity of 
putting housework upon a plane with other 
kinds of dignified employment for young 
women; of systematizing the work of the 
household; of doing away with that feeling 
of class distinction which a certain ty|)e of 
woman wishes to exist between herself and 
her maid. It is also decidedly interesting in 
its insistence U|)on the practicability of a 
definite course of training planned to fit 



women to do housework, as a vocation, and 
of the advantages to many housewives of 
turning over this work to persons so trained. 

Wauled: A Young Woman to Do Ilouscuork. 
By C. Helene Barker. New York: 
Moffat, Yard and Company, 1915, pp. 
127. $1.00. By mail of the Journal 
$1.06. 

"Under the present system of housekeep- 
ing there is not one day out of 365 that the 
domestic employee has a right to claim as a 
day of rest, not even a legal holiday." 

Even the most conservative housekeeper 
will be startled at this statement and also 
perhaps at the following: "The fact is 
that housework has remained stationary 
while other work has gained in freedom and 
dignity." 

The writer of these words has undertaken 
in her little book to prove that it is possible 
to give to the domestic employee the condi- 
tions that she finds attractive in the factory 
and other places of work, and that this 
simple change to definite short hours of 
work and one day of the week entirely free 
will put housework on a dignified level and 
attract a far better class of women than are 
now available. 

As proof she cites the experience of a city 
woman who advertised as follows: " Wanted, 
A young woman to help with housework, 8 
hours a day, 6 days a week, sleep home. 
Apply by letter only." 

Within 24 hours she had received 105 ap- 
plications, and whenever this advertisement 
has been used from 100 to 160 answers have 
been received. 

The housekeeper, knowing what qualifi- 
cations are necessary to meet her spmal 
needs, will select accordingly; one woman 
who did much entertaining required a good 
cook and waitress and arranged that her 
hours on duty should be 12 m. to 3 p.m. and 
from 4 p.m. to 9 p.m. The employer in this 
case prepared the breakfast. 

A number of schedules arc given to show 
that the work may be arranged with the help 
of the employer or of a woman by the day 
whose prci>ence on the maid's day off makes 



1916] BOOKS AND LITERATURE 211 

all run smoothly. The schedules for two of the worker that can be obtained under 

or three employees are of course easily ad- these conditions; 2. A saving of money, 

justed. But in all cases the employees are since the employee sleeps at home and takes 

expected to have a tolerable efficiency in all one or two of her meals there. Such an e.x- 

kinds of work. periment it would seem could best be under- 

The advantages urged for the system are: taken by a small group of friends whose 

1. The superior willingness and intelligence scale of living was somewhat similar. 



BOOKS RECEIVED 

The Baby's First Two Years. By Richard M. Smith. Boston: Houghton, Mifflin Company, 

1915, pp. 156. $0.75. By mail of the Journal, $0.80. 
The Best Private Schools of the United States and Canada. By Porter E. Sargent. Boston: 

Porter E. Sargent, 1915, pp. 514 (An annual publication). $2.00 cloth; $3.00 leather. 
Boyhood and Lawlessness. By Eleanor H. .\dler. New York: Survey Associates 1914, 

pp. 215. (Russell Sage Foundation, v. 2 of West Side Studies carried on under the 

direction of Pauline Goldmark.) 
Changes in the Food Supply and Their Relation to Nutrition. By Lafayette B. Mendel. 

New Haven: YaleUniversity Press, 1916, pp.61. $0.50. By mail of the Journal, $0.53. 
Dollar Luncheons to Serve four People. By A.C.K., D.S.A., E.S.R., & L.B.C. Springfield, 

Mass.: A.M. Rowley, 1914. $0.25. 
Efficiency in Home-making and Firsl-.\id to Good Cooking. By Georgie Robertson, Wash- 
ington, D. C, 1915, pp. 157 + viii. $1.00. 
Learning to Earn. By John .'\. Lapp and Carl H. Mote. Indianapolis, Bobbs-Merrill 

Company, 1915, pp. 421. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.58. 
Living on 96.00 a Week in New York. City Investigation Commission Report for 1915. 



PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

An Improved Respiration Calorimeter For Use in Experiments with Man. By C. F. Lang- 
worthy and R. D. Milner. Washington, D. C: Government Printing Office, 1915. 
Superintendent of Documents. Reprint form the Department of .\griculture, Journal 
of Agricultural Research, vol. 5 (1915), no. 8, pp. 299-348, pis. 7. 

Beans and Similar Vegetables as Food. By Lucile Brewer and Helen Canon. Ithaca, N. Y.: 
New York State College of .\griculture at Cornell University, June 1,1915, pp. 181- 
200. (Cornell Reading Courses, vol. 4, no. 89. Food series no. 16). Free to resi- 
dents of New York State, .\ddress the Department of Home Economics, College of 
.Agriculture, Ithaca, N. Y. 

Clean-up and School Improvement Day. December 10, 1915. Montgomery Ala. Depart- 
ment of Education, Bulletin no. 45 (2d ed.) 1915. 

Construction: with a Department Devoted to Safe Homes. New York: Construction Pub- 
lishing Company, December, 1915. 

The Decorative Use of Flov.'ers. By .Annette J. Warner. Ithaca, N. Y. New York State 
College of Agriculture at Cornell University, May 1 , 1915, pp. 153-178. (Cornell Read- 
ing Courses, vol. 4, no. 87, Farmhouse series no. 8.) 



212 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 
Foods and Cookery 

Electric Cooking, Mainly From the Consumer's Point of View. W. R. Cooper, Inst. 
Ele-t. Engin., Jour., 53 (1915), no. 245, pp. 473-497; rev. in Elecl. World, 65 (1915), no. 14, 
pp. 842, 843. 

The Electric Cooking Problem. R. E. Frickey, Jour. Electricity, 34 (1915), no. 23, pp. 
475-478, figs. 4. 

Electric Cooking and Heating In Private Houses. W. A. Gillott, Jour. Inst. Elect. 
Engiit. [London], 53 (1914), no. 237, pp. 42-53; abs. in Sci. Abs. Sect, 'a— Elect. Engin., 18 
(1915), no. 205, I, pp. 15, 16. 

Chemical Examination of Ghee [Rendered butter]. K. H. Vakil, Jour. Soc. Chem. Indus., 
34 (1915), no. 7, p. 320. 

Economy in Food During War. A. K. Chalmers, Lancet [London], 1915. II, no. 10, pp. 
561-564. 

.\ Study of the Gelatinizing Agents, Pasty Materials, and Thickeners Used in Food 
Products. L. A. Congdon, Trans. Kans. Acad. Sci., 27 (1914), pp. 81-86. Those most 
commonly used are said to be gelatin, starch, agar-agar, gum tragacanth, dextrin, gum 
arable, albumin, and fruit and vegetable pectins. 

Vinegar. Maine Sta. Of. Insp. 70 (1915), pp. 69-80. Directions for the home manu- 
facture of vinegar are given, together with the results of the inspection of a number of samples. 

The Effect of the Mineral Content of Water on Canned Foods. H. L. Huenink and E. 
Bartow, Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., 7 (1915), no. 6, pp. 495, 496. 

Kafir, Feterita, Milo. F. W. Davis, Texas Dept. Agr. Bui. 42 (1915), pp. 18. Infor- 
mation is given regarding the use of Kafir, feterita, and milo in bread making. Recipes are 
included. 

The Lye Hulling of Com for Hominy. J. W. Marden and J. .\. Montgomery, Jour. 
Itidus. and Engin. Chem., 7 (1915), no. 10, pp. 850-853. Data are reported regarding the 
effect of different substances on the hulling of corn and the details necessary to secure the 
best product are discussed. 

Efhciency of Coffee-making Devices. R. F. Bacon, Tea and CoJJee Trade Jour., 29 
(1915), no. 5, pp. 427-429. A study of the comparative efficiency of 9 different commer- 
cial coffee-making devices. Data are given showing the percentage of caffeetannic acid 
and caffein in the brews, together with the number of grains of caffein contained in one 
.iverage-sized cup of each brew. 

On the Analysis and Composition of Some Proprietar>' Foods for Infants. J. L. Baker, 
Rpts. Local Govt. Bd. [Gr. Brit.], Pub. Health and Med. Subjs., n. ser., 1914, no. 80, pp. 
49-83. 

On the Use of Proprietary Foods for Infant Feeding. F. J. H. Coutts, Rpts. Local Govt. 
Bd. [Gt. Brit.], Pub. Health and Med. Subjs., n. ser., 1914, no. 80, pp. 3-19. 

The Changes in the Character of Fats During the Process of Cooking. Helen Masters 
and H. L. Smith, Analyst, 39 (1914), no. 461, pp. 347-350. From a study of fat, both be- 
fore and after being cooked with flour, the authors conclude that very little change takes 
place in the fats, cotton-seed oil, and butter fat during cooking except in the case of very 
thin or considerably overcooked pastries. .\ slight oxidation of the fats occurred. A de- 
crease in the iodin value and an increase in the refractive index and acidity were also noted. 
This paper is of interest since so little experimental work has been puhlished on the chemical 
changes involved in cookery. 



1916] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 213 

Physiology akd Nutrition 

Human Milk. A. W. Bosworth, New York State Sta. Tech. Bui. 43 (1915), pp. 5; Jour. 
Biol. Chem., 20 (1915), no. 4, pp. 707-709. An investigation of the chemical composition 
of human milk. 

The EfTect upon Appetite of the Chemical Constituents of the Air of Occupied Rooms. 
C. E. A. Winslow and G. T. Palmer, Proc. Soc. Expt. Biol, and Med., 12 (1915), no. 7, pp. 
141-144. 

The Protein Need of Infants. — Being Metabolism Studies of a Two Months' Old Infant 
Fed with Varying Proportions of Cow's Milk Protein. B. R. Hoobler, Amer. Jour. Dis- 
eases Children, 10 (1915), no. 3, pp. 153-171. 

On the Cholesterol Content of the Tissues of Growing Rats When Under Various Diets. 
P. E. Lander, Biochem. Jour., 9, (1915), no. 1, pp. 78-96, figs. 11. 

Contributions to the Physiology of the Stomach. — XIX, Reflexes From the Intestinal 
Mucosa to the Stomach. E. H. Brunemeier and A. J. Carlson, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 36 
(1915), no. 2, pp. 191-195, figs. 2. 

The Energy Metabolism of Ten Hospital Children. J. R. Murlin and B. R. Hoobler, 
Amer. Jour. Diseases Children, 9 (1915), no. 2, pp. 81-119, figs. 10. 

The Metabolic Relationship of the Proteins to Glucose — II, Glucose Formation from 
Body Proteins. N. \V. Janney and F. .\. Csonka, Jour. Biol. Chem., 22 (1915), no. 1, pp. 
203-213. 

The Acidity of the Infant Stomach. R. Hess, Ztschr. Kinderheilk., 12 (1915), no. 6, 
pp. 409^39; abs. in Exp. Sta. Record, 34 (1916), no. 2, pp. 167, 168. 

Differences in the Digestion in .\dults and Infants. J. F. McClendon, Jour. Amer. Mtd. 
Assoc, 65 (1915), no. 1, pp. 12-14. 

A Study of the Nutritive Value of Some Proprietary Infant Foods. Ruth Wheeler, 
Amer. Jour. Diseases Children, 9 (1915), no. 4, pp. 300-318. 

The Influence of Posture on Digestion in Infancy. C. H. Smith and L. T. Le Wald, 
Amer. Jour. Diseases Children 9 (1915), no. 4, pp. 261-283. 

Gastro-Intestinal Studies. VII, The Utilization of Ingested Protein as Influenced by 
Undermasticat on (Bolting) and Overmastication (Fletcherizing). L. F. Foster and P. 
B. Hawk, Jour. Amer. Chem. Soc, 37 (1915), no. 5, pp. 1347-1361. 

Hygiene and Sanitation 

Ninety- three Persons Infected by a Typhoid Carrier at a Public Dinner. W. A. Sawyer, 
Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 63 (1914), no. 18, pp. 1537-1542, fig. 1. 

Some Results of the First Year's Work of the New York State Commission on Ventila- 
tion. C. E. A. Winslow, D. D. Kimball, F. S. Lee, J. A. Miller, E. B. Phelps, E. L. Thom- 
dike, and G. T. Palmer, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 5 (1915), no. 2, pp. 85-118, figs. 11. 

The Putrefaction of Prepared Meat, Game, Wild Fowl, and Fish. Weichel, MrcA. Wiss. 
u. Prakt. Tierheilk., 41 (1915), no. 4-5, pp. 322-372; abs. in Expt. Sta. Record, 34 (1916), 
no. 2, p. 163. Information is given as to the underlying causes and conditions of the decay 
of different kinds of animal foods. A very extensive bibliography is appended, containing 
almost entirely German and French references. 

Nonalcoholic Carbonated Beverages, Sanitary Condition and Composition. R. M. 
Allen, J. O. LaBach, W. R. Pinnell, and L. A. Brown, Kentucky Sta. Bui. 192 (1915), pp. 
59-125. This bulletin presents the results of a sanitary survey of the soft drink industry 
of the state in which the methods employed were similar to those developed in milk 
inspection. 



214 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

EXCHANGES 

HOMEMAKING FOR BOYS 

Much is being said and written nowadays about courses in home- 
making for girls, but all is silence with reference to the part the boys 
must eventually play in that important institution. To be sure, boys 
are being educated along the lines of money getting and money spend- 
ing, but not much information can they get from the schools that will 
fit them to participate properly in home activities and the real essence 
of home life. 

The notion has been entirely too prevalent that the man is simply the 
provider — the furnisher of the wherewithal, with no other real function 
in the home. Could courses be gradually and judiciously offered which 
would help to overcome this notion? There certainly needs to be de- 
veloped in the boys the homing habit; for the lack of it is what ruins 
many a boy and runs many a matrimonial launch aground. 

It may be that such a course as suggested would not appeal to the 
boys. They may regard it too effeminate. If so, may not this only 
argue the greater need of it? It may be that some wise and sane 
people can discreetly and with dignity and good sense work into certain 
of their courses for boys such practical considerations as home duties 
and responsibilities, home economy and accounting, home relations and 
government, home building and furnishing, the sanctity of home ties, 
man's place in the modern home. Thus may there come to the word 
homely its better and liner meaning. 

Whether or not the schools can properly do anything along this line, 
the fact remains that there is pressing need of just such information and 
training somewhere. — Industrial Arts Magazine. 

NATURAL STORAGE 

Experiments have shown that in many of the large caves so nun;er- 
ous in Kentucky the atmosphere is so dry and the temperature so even 
throughout the year that citrus fruits stored in them remain in perfect 
condition for many months. Lemons have been kept in one of these 
caves for two years without losing any of their freshness. Associations 
of fruit growers in states farther south have concluded after careful 
experimentation, that through this method of storage these fruits can 
l)c held long enough to insure stable market prices. — The Independent. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The Detroit Meeting. The American 
Home Economics Association this year for 
the first time arranged a meeting in connec- 
tion with that of the Department of Super- 
intendence of the National Education Asso- 
ciation, held at Detroit, February 19-26. 

This is from many standpoints the most 
important educational meeting of the year 
and offers an unusual opportunity to further 
the interests of Home Economics. 

This first experiment proved so successful 
that it seemed the universal opinion that it 
should be repeated each year. 

The Association held two sessions, as well 
as a meeting of the Council and of the 
Executive and Finance Committees. 

Perhaps it was chiefly due to the activities 
of the Detroit .Association that approxi- 
mately three hundred people were present 
at each session. Certainly it was true that 
much of our enjoyment was due to their 
courtesy and hospitality. 

The President of the Association, Miss 
Van Rensselaer, was suffering from a severe 
cold and had lost her voice, so that Miss 
Marlatt, the Second Vice-President, served 
most acceptably as the acting presiding 
officer, though the guiding hand of the 
President was felt throughout the meeting. 

Dean Talbot, the First Vice-President, was 
also on the platform in the afternoon and 
presided during Miss Marlatt's speech. The 
program was presented practically as an- 
nounced. Miss Kinne was not able to be 
present but some additional speakers took 
her place. Mr. Dodd, Secretary of the 
National Society for Promotion of Industrial 
Education, gave a report of the present 
status of the Smith-Hughes bill and asked 
and was granted a further indorsement of 
the bill by the .Association. 

Mrs. Burridge, of V'ermont, came to us 
from the section of the State Supervisors of 



Rural Schools that unfortunately li.td its 
Household .Arts program at the same time 
as our morning session. Mrs. Burridge pre- 
sented some of the problems of the rural 
school under New England conditions, dif- 
fering widely from those of the West. 

The morning session was opened by I'nv 
fessor Works, in charge of the Rural Agri- 
cultural Section with whom we were in 
joint session in the morning, who asked and 
answered the questions: Have we enough 
body of material to justify our work? Do 
we know what should be taught, or how? 
What is the social need of this work? He 
emphasized the need of more time. 

Miss Berry of the University of Minnesota 
discussed the noonday lunch problem as a 
feeding problem, an educational question 
and a management problem. Her paper was 
so suggestive and helpful that we arc hoping 
she will be persuaded to allow us to publish 
it in the Journal. 

President Ednah Rich, of the Santa Bar- 
bara Normal School of Manual Arts and 
Home Economics, discussed the "home 
visitor," outlining the history of this work 
and showing how it has been developed in 
California. 

The interests of the Journal were pre- 
sented by the Editor and her request for 
suggestions have already met with the re- 
sponse of several letters. 

The afternoon session opened with a report 
of the work in the Detroit schools presented 
by Miss Charlotte Keene, a Detroit teacher, 
that gave an insight into the methods in 
use in a great public school system. 

Dean Talbot's few words introducing Miss 
Marlatt made us realize the great growth of 
our movement and Miss Marlatt herself 
showed how much thought has been put 
upon the solution of our problems. Her 

215 



216 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[AprU 



paper roused a vigorous discussion that con- 
tinued as long as time allowed. 

Miss Bevicr,of the University of Illinois, as 
always, gave a most suggestive paper, some 
of which we hope to repeat in the Journal. 

Miss Florence E. Ward, Office of Exten- 
sion Work North and West, States Rela- 
tions Service, U. S. Department of Agricul- 
ture, added a few words before the close of 
the meeting. 

The meeting of the Council will be more 
fully reported later. The most immediate 
question discussed was that of the place of 
the annual meeting. Though Miss Berry did 
not withdraw her invitation to Minnesota it 
is much more convenient for her to have us 
come another year. The result of the postal 
card questionnaire showed that a large major- 
ity of those answering preferred to have the 
meeting in the I'^ast since the N. E. A. meets 
here this year. 

Miss Van Rensselaer has invited us to 
come again to Ithaca and those of us who 
received Cornell's hospitality a few years 
ago would gladly accept her invitation. The 
decision between Ithaca and a place nearer 
New York was left to the Executive Com- 
mittee and will be reported immediately. 

Child Labor Conference. The twelfth 
annual conference on child labor which has 
just closed its sessions at Asheville, N. C, 
was one of the most important in the history 
of the National Child Labor Committee. 
All of the sessions were well attended and 
some of them overflowed into the largest 
auditorium in the city. 

The discussion at the Conference naturally 
turned on the actual conditions in North 
Carolina and whether the action of the 
Congressmen from the state in opposing 
the Keating-Owen bill represented the feel- 
ing of the majority of the people or merely 
a few cotton-mill owners. The local s[)eakcrs 
were emphatic in declaring the child labor 
problem acute in North Carolina, thereby 
corroborating facts brought out by the 
National ("hild Labor Committee in its 
recent investigations. Answering the "poor 
widow" argument so frequently advanced, 



Dr. George T Winston of Asheville said, 
"The mill men say that they are looking 
out for the children of widows. Then 
there must be more widows here than in 
any other state in the Union, judging by 
the numbers of children employed. If 
child labor was ever necessary here, the 
need no longer exists." All of the local 
speakers, except representatives of the cotton 
interests, agreed that North Carolina is 
entirely able to take care of the families 
who actually depend on their children for 
support, and that the children of the state 
are an asset too valuable to carry the bur- 
den of family support. 

The real issue was whether North Carolina 
should meet her problem by state or federal 
regulation. Some facts in the history of at- 
tempted child labor legislation in the state 
were given at the first session by Hon. Zebu- 
Ion Weaver, of Asheville, who sponsored the 
child labor bill that was defeated by the 
last state legislature. He said the children 
of North Carolina would never be saved 
until Congress acts. "It is a day of con- 
servation," said Mr. Weaver, "We con- 
serve our trees and our cattle. Is it not 
time to conserve the health and welfare 
of our children?" 

The question of federal regulation resolved 
itself into a debate between Congressman 
Britt of .\sheville, and Congressman Keating, 
of Colorado. Mr. Britt voted against the 
Keating bill last week in Congress, and he 
came to the conference to explain that 
he voted against it for two reasons: first, 
because he considers it unconstitutional, 
and second, because he does not consider 
it humanitarian in its effect on the children. 
He opposed the bill on constitutional grounds 
because he believes it is a regulation of 
manufacture rather than commerce, and 
therefore not comparable to other interstate 
commerce acts. His objection to the bill 
on humanitarian grounds was his conviction 
that by taking children out of industry it 
will result in their ultimate ruin because they 
will do nothing but idle on the streets. He 
declared himself in favor of a state law simi- 
lar to the Weaver bill defeated here last year. 



1916] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



217 



In answering Mr. Britt, Mr. Keating 
argued that no bill could be condemned as 
unconstitutional until a definite constitu- 
tional objection or inhibition could be found 
in it, and that no man had been able to dis- 
cover any clause in the constitution or in 
Supreme Court decisions which could prove 
this bill unconstitutional. On the other 
hand he cited a number of Supreme Court 
decisions to prove it entirely constitutional. 

Mr. Keating found Mr. Britt's arguments 
for state legislation equally faulty. "Mr. 
Britt says he favored the Weaver bill of 
last year. The Weaver bill was even more 
stringent than this federal child labor bill. 
If the federal bill will take the children out 
of industry and put them on the streets 
why would not the Weaver bill have done 
the same thing? As a matter of fact neither 
bill would put them on the streets. The 
children will be in school most of the time, 
and they will have some time for play too." 

Women were present in large number at 
all the conference sessions and gave every 
evidence of being keenly alive to the impor- 
tance of the problem and of the fact that 
they might help to bring North Carolina 
up to standard. 

National American Conference. Miss 
Emma Smedley was appointed delegate from 
the American Home Economics .\ssociation 
to the National American Conference held in 
Philadelphia, January 19-20, 1916. 

It is the object of the Committee to act as 
a Clearing-house for all the various organi- 
zations throughout the country working 
with the immigrant. 

The Committee recognizes that Ameri- 
canization is a comple.x process, produced by 
many agencies, and not to be swiftly accom- 
plished. But it believes that the English 
language, .\merican citizenship and Ameri- 
can standards of living are, without ques- 
tion, the first steps. 

Miss Frances A. Kellor (Third Vice- 
President) strongly emphasized the fact 
that it is the .\merican citizen's attitude 
toward his foreign-bred neighbor which de- 
termines the success of this great national 
task. 

Some of our leading statesmen and edu- 



cators were present and appealed to every 
citizen to do his part. 

A Textile Exhibition. The Newark 
Museum Association of Newark, N. J., held 
an exhibit of the textile industries of New 
Jersey February 1 to March 18 to include 
cloth making, knitting, embroidery, rug 
weaving, felt hat making and allied indus- 
tries. 

The Museum endeavored to show, in the 
History of Textiles of New Jersey, the his- 
tory of textiles of all time. They showed 
articles made by the Indians before the white 
man came; Colonial blue and white cover- 
lets, samplers, bead bags, and linsey woolsey, 
collected by the Federation of Women's 
Clubs of the State of New Jersey. They 
took the commercial exhibit and put it up in 
a dignified art museum way. They aimed to 
show not only the finished products, but also 
processes from primitive spinning and weav- 
ing to modern power machines, and the de- 
velopment of each fibre from the fibre itself 
to the finished cloth. 

A great deal of educational work was done 
in connection with the exhibit. Classes of 
school children, sales people, club women and 
other groups were conducted through the ex- 
hibit by special instructors. 

The College of Industrial Arts at 
Denton, Texas gave during January a 
short course in Home Economics extension 
work to over thirty of the County Canning 
Club and Home Demonstration Agents of 
the State, planned directly for the agents 
themselves and indirectly to meet the con- 
ditions and needs of the farm home. 

President F. M. Bralley and Clarence A. 
Tripp, director of the extension service of 
the college had charge of the work. Miss 
Virginia Babb, domestic art; Miss Corabel 
Weimer, domestic science; Prof. C. H. Yar- 
borcugh, rural arts and sciences; Miss Jessie 
H. Humphries, history and the social sci- 
ences; Miss Willie I. Birge, biology; and Miss 
Anna M. Cron, manual arts and house plan- 
ning, were among the directors of depart- 
ments who gave courses, while Miss Floris S. 
Culver, domestic science, and others shared 
in the work. 



218 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



The canning club workers themselves con- 
tributed to numbers of programs, especially 
those demonstrating the making of fireless 
cookers, the canning of meat in tin cans, 
jelly making and the canning of vegetables, 
while a series of evening lectures was given, 
bearing upon rural extension service by 
women. Prominent visitors and speakers in- 
cluded Miss Ola Powell and O. B. Martin, 
from the United States Department of Agri- 
culture; Dr. W. B. Bizzell, president of the 
Agricultural and Mechanical College of 
Texas; Miss Bernice Carter, state agent for 
canning club work in Texas; Miss Alice 
Keeler, state agent for Louisiana; and J. L. 
McLain, of the Bureau of Animal Industry 
of the United States Department of Agri- 
culture, who gave a practical demonstration 
of butter making in the farm home. Miss 
Jessie P. Rich of the University of Texas in- 
troduced the subject of the "National Baby 
Campaign" to the canning club and home 
demonstration agents. 

A Vacation Canning Club. .Vn inter- 
esting e.xperiment was tried at the Webster 
Avenue Grammar School, in Providence, of 
starting a canning club, under the direction 
of Mrs. Margaret Titchener. The work was 
suggested by a canning demonstration given 
by Professor Thomas of the Rhode Island 
State College. More than forty children 
joined the classes that were held during the 
school vacation. Not only were fruits 
canned, but carrots, beets, beet tops, string 
and butter beans. 

A Visitor's Day brought many interested 
housekeepers to learn as well as observe. 
The course became so popular that boys 
asked to join. Pictures were taken of the 
class and published in the Providence papers. 
One of the market men was glad to exhibit 
the canned vegetables. 

The last of August an exhibition was 
given at the school with hundreds of jars of 
fruits and vegetables displayed. The equip- 
ment was very simple, much of it brought 
from the teacher's home. Mrs. Titchener 
volunteered her work. 

Housekeeper's Short Course in Home 
Economics, 'ihc Florida State College for 
Women gave a short course to housekeepers 



February 22 to March 5. The course in- 
cluded work in sewing, cooking, nutrition, 
home care of the sick, and art and literature 
in the home. 

The Annual School for Home Demonstra- 
tion Agents was given in the department 
the last week of the short course. Students 
of the short course were given an oppor- 
tunity to attend the afternoon and evening 
meetings of this school. 

Brief Notes. Miss Anna Barrows, at 
the close of her Housekeepers' Conferences 
at the State Agricultural Colleges of Oregon 
and Utah, spent February in California. 
While the guest of Miss Vail at Mills Col- 
lege, Miss Barrows spent a day at the Uni- 
versity of California and one at Stanford 
University. At the Palo Alto High School, 
Miss Barrows gave the boys, on request, a 
talk on the value of Home Economics for the 
boys. The keen interest shown by the boys 
is indicative of a still larger class in the boys* 
cookery course in the High School. At the 
Stanford W'omen's Club House at Stanford 
University, Miss Barrows, in her attempt to 
make the women think upon the value of 
Home Economics for every university girl 
and of its value in opening up many avenues 
toward various vocations, aroused a very 
lasting interest in Home Economics as a 
college course. 

After leaving California Miss Barrows 
visited the South and gave lectures at the 
School of Instruction for Home Economics 
Extension Agents, at Mississippi Agricultural 
and Mechanical College. 

A notable pure food exhibit for a small 
town was held under the auspices o( the 
Woman's Club in the Village Hall, Barr'ng- 
ton, 111.. February 1-4. .Vmong the speakers 
were Mrs. Baker, the author of the textile 
articles in the Journal; Miss Winifred Col- 
lins, in charge of Home Economics at Chicago 
Commons and chairman of the Food and 
Markets Committee of the Woman's City 
Club; and Mrs. BIcy, President of the 
Chicago Housewife's League. 

The topics dealt with food sanitation, and 
municipal markets, as well as hnu&cplanning, 
house decoration and the budget. 



Vol. \III. No .". MA^'. 191ti 

Journal ot Home Economics 

For those inttn-stfcJ in Horm'tnakiiijl, Institution Management, 
and I'.ducational Work in Home Kconomics 

M«s. Alice P Norton, Rliior Kktiraii £. Baldwin, l/ax-ifi'ic Edilor 

EJilortai Bnar,i 
Mrs Mary H. Abel A>rNA Harrows C. F. Lavcworthy Isabel Ely Lord 

Ex-Qfieio i/rmft^r; — Martha \'as RF.sssEi.ArR, President American Home Economic! Associatioo 
Sarah I-olmsf. Arnold, Chiirmin lnstit'iti->n Economics Section 
RfTH Whf.ilfr Chairman Science Section 
Gertrudk McCheynt, Chairman Extension Eliication Section 

Collahcir.-.'rrt -The Officers, Members of the CTuncil. and Advisers 



HofSE Pl.\\XISr. AND KlRNISiriM. /•'Ih,l:,\ll Miltrr 21'' 

Home Ecovomics Correspoxdenck Courses ok Collegiate Gkauk Mic- Loomis 227 

Household Ammonia i. F. Stifll 2M 

Evolutions of FASHif>Ns oi- Ijress for Womi \ Mrs. Cliarlolte L-r 2.M) 

\ Cntque Collk.ce r,\niniT ,\v,i B. Milam 2.W 

The Smith-Huc.hes Hili .\f,try Sclnnrk WooIdhui 241 

Lor.ANBERRIES 247 

The Question Box 247 

For the Homemakkr 251 

DlscRTMiXATiox IX BUYING Charlotte Gibbs Baker 251 

Three Womex axo a Farm FMa Kaiser Carruth 256 

Recipes 258 

Waterworks Outfit for the Home 260 

Daily Qijestions That Mothers Should Ask 261 

Fj>itori.\i 2M 

Comment and Discussiox 266 

Jn'OKs AND Literature 267 

Bibliography of Home Economics 271 

News from the Fiem) 27.^ 



The Journal of Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association. 
$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.25. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remituni-rs should be sent by Draft on .New York, Eitprcss Order or Postal Money Order, payable 
to the .American Home Economics .\ssociation. Currency, unless mailed in a rei;istered letter, is at the senders risk. 

CH.WC.E IN' .ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which the 
catnge is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address sliould be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address 

AJ^IERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION Station N. Baltimore, Md. 

Entered as second cl;iss mattei at the Baltimore Post Office 




P'k.urk Dressed to Represent Martha Washington, on Exhibition at 
The National Museum. (Sec page 236.) 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 



Vol. VIII MAY, 1916 No. 5 



HOUSE PLANNING AND FURNISHING 

EIHELWYN MILLER 
University of Chicago 

Happily in our work in House Planning and Furnishing we have 
passed beyond the stage where we are content to look at pictures, read 
about houses, furniture and rugs, make elaborate perspective drawings 
of rooms, collect and mount samples of materials and call all this illus- 
trative material an end in itself. It bears as much relation to true House 
Furnishing as reading about chemistry does to laboratory experimenta- 
tion. We are proceeding along the same lines of development as have 
all laboratory and experimental courses. It is true that we are finding 
it difficult to advance beyond the stage of mere appreciation, for the 
recognition and enjoyment of historic forms of architecture, furniture, 
rugs and wall papers satisfies the historic and literary instincts and it 
is a necessary basis for the inventive work of the laboratory. 

The subject resolves itself therefore into three distinct phases, namely: 
Design, Recognition of Historic Fonns, including designs now on the 
market, and Practical Handling of Materials. The first phase of the 
subject should be a definite part of the general design course and should 
be taught by the art teacher. Here the appreciation of the general 
principles of design is gained through problems relating to the home. 
Design being the hannonious relation of parts and this harmony being 
expressed to the eye through lines, masses and colors, there is no reason 
why the response to art principles may not be awakened through a study 
of harmony as found in Oriental rugs, Gothic, French or English furni- 
ture, historic wall papers, American potteries. Colonial doorways, woven 

219 



220 THE JOURJS'AL OF HOME ECONOMICS fMaV 

and block printed designs in fabrics. Just as great skill of hand and 
eye can be gained in drawing and painting the design found in the above 
named subjects as can be gained in drawing and painting the traditional 
subjects of the art course. For this reason the work in House Furnish- 
ing should begin m the design work of the primary grades and should 
continue through the entire school life. 

The planning and furnishing of a home is a part of the Ufe of every- 
boy and ever>' girl, of every man and every woman. Just as great in- 
terest is manifested on tlie part of boys and girls of the seventn and 
eightli grades in putting together the different Unes of different t}pes 
of furniture to make a harmonious room, or in selecting types of archi- 
tecture suited to the topography of the land, as is shown in combining 
lines to make a harmonious poster, a book cover, a stained glass window, 
or a landscape. 

With the recognition of the principles of proportion, rhythm, symmetry 
and subordination in house exteriors, garden plans and house interior 
arrangements comes the enjoyment of the simplest features of the home. 
So often the exercises in House Furnishing have been made those of 
color harmony alone, forgetting that back of color hannony Ues harmony 
of dark and Hght masses and back of mass relationsliips Ues hannony of 
lines. Through the study of line harmony we gain an appreciation of 
the proportion of houses, of gardens, of ceilings, walls, floors and furni- 
ture. 

The present return to a recognition of the beauty and the value of 
the structural elements is putting House Furnishing upon a rational 
basis. For the house should be so well planned both from the scientific 
and the aesthetic poijits of view that the furnishing should be but the 
finishing touch to the building of the house. 

A study of the well proportioned rooms of the Italian, French and 
English, as well as of our own Colonial and Craftsman houses, shows the 
beauty which is embodied in the harmonious relation of lines of door?, 
windows, over-door and over-window panels, baseboard, coniice mold- 
ing and built-in furniture. A recent number of the House Beautiful 
speaks of the satisfaction which one feels at house-cleaning time when 
the walls are newly papered, but not yet covered with pictures, the wood- 
work clean and performing its proper function as a framework for win- 
dow, door and wall panels, the windows clean and as yet unencumbered 
with drap)cries, the mantel free from bric-a-brac and the floor witli rugs 



1916] HOUSE PLAJINING AND FURNISHING 221 

arranged parallel with the baseboards. This joy, above that felt because 
of the freshness- of the entire room, is a joy in the proportions of the 
structural elements. The writer suggests that the other furnishings of 
the room be divided into two piles, the one containing the essentials and 
the other the non-essentials; that the essentials then be carefully and 
thoughtfully placed in relation to the structural lines, thus securing a 
harmony of lines. The non-essentials should be carefully stored out of 
sight and brought out piece by piece as they seem to be needed. 

Pupils should be taught to employ the same common sense in the 
furnishing of a room that they employ in the costuming of their bodies. 
They would never consider for one moment wearing all their jewelry at 
one time or all the time, and yet they do not hesitate to hang all their 
pictures, group all their pottery where it may be seen and leave pictures 
and pottery, especially pictures, in the same position until next house- 
cleaning time. 

The appreciation oS lines upon walls, floors and ceilings has lessened 
the number of pictures upon the wall, has hung them from two hooks 
instead of one, has grouped them in relation to furniture, doors and win- 
dows. It has made people feel the lack of unity in hanging pictures upon 
the pictures in the wall paper. It has simplified the lines of window drap- 
eries because windows are considered pictures upon the wall. In the 
room of informal t}^e it has brought curtains up to the window sills, 
instead of allowing them to wander against the wall below the sill un- 
bounded by a line of woodwork. It has caused the curtains to be pushed 
in at the sides so that the window frames may show at top, sides and 
bottom and thus preserve the structural lines of the window. As artists, 
then, we put together our composition, not with brush and pencil, but 
by first planning our composition by the harmonious grouping of lines 
to define the proportion of spaces; our lines being baseboard, molding, 
window and doorframes, picture frames, mantels, edges of curtains, rugs, 
draperies, electric light fixtures, chairs, tables, pottery, and other 
furnishings. 

In any design we must have a dominant note, a point of interest. 
In the drama, the dance and all the visual arts, such as sculpture, paint- 
ing, architecture, furniture, pottery, jewelry and costume, we find the 
climax of interest just as we do in the musical composition. This cen- 
ter of interest may be brought about in several ways, namely, by more 
intricate patterns, by size, by striking contrast of dark and light, by 



222 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Ma}' 

brilliance of color. Sometimes one and sometimes all of these means 
are employed for centering the interest. In a library, where the interest 
may be in the open fire and the colors found in the binding of books, 
the walls, curtains and rugs are often kept free of intricate lines, so that 
the eye sees those elements which make for the enjo>Tnent of the real 
purpose of the room. 

In our consideration of the tj'pes of domestic architecture now promi- 
nent in tlie United States, we find the Pueblo, tlie Colonial, the Bunga- 
low, the Craftsman and the school represented by Frank Lloyd Wright, 
called the Chicago School, as most suited to the needs of our home 
building population. In each of these types we find the line element 
the element which we enjoy. In the Pueblo type, by many writers 
quoted as the only purely American type and preserved in the buildings 
of the University at Albuquerque, New Mexico, we find the design so 
decidedly one of long, jagged, horizontal lines that the building seems a 
part of the clifTs against which it is seen. The Colonial house with its 
dignified proportions, its simplicity of Hne and its beautifully accented 
doorway expresses to us not contrast of dark and light, but rather a simple 
division by lines of a horizontal rectangle into narrow roof, wide expanse 
of walls, and adequate foundation, with all interest centered in the door- 
way and door. With such simplicity in the exterior, how could we "fuss 
up" the interior? Does it not demand ivory woodwork, including man- 
tels, mahogany furniture with simple curves, dainty window draperies 
and lighting fixtures of frosted glass globes and hanging cr>'stals? 

The bungalow has preserved all through its evolution from the thatched 
"bangla"of India to the English gentleman's week-end country home, and 
finally to America's practical every day life, its lines proclaiming the hos- 
pitaHty fostered under its low sloping roof. The friendly wood which 
adorns both the outside and the inside of the house demands, because of 
the lines of edges and texture, similar line treatments in furnishings. 
The curtains, because of their beauty of texture as well as the absence 
of all attempts at draping, i)roclaim this beauty in structure and texture. 
The Craftsman house, while dilTering from the bungalow in its propor- 
tions, yet expresses the same beauty of structural line and texture. 

The Chicago School, represented by Mr. Wright a.^ one of its origina- 
tors, (n nkly i^roclaims that its aim is to produce a l>pc of architecture 
whose lines, low, horizontal ones, repeat the lines of the Illinois prairie. 
Straight lines are almost exclusively used and because of their original- 



1916] HOUSE PLANNING AND FURNISHING 223 

ity have been much discussed by the layman. The houses have been 
said to be built in the shape of ocean liners, or as models of Japanese dwell- 
ings. However they may be designated, they harmonize with the topog- 
raphy of the land, as does also the type of residence which the Craftsman 
pictured for us not many months ago as being built in the mountains 
of Colorado for the President of our United States. Here we find a 
building whose lines of towers and turrets repeat the lines of the pin- 
nacles and crags of the Rocky Mountains, upon which it is built. Thus 
not only in the interior of the house should we fmd harmony of line, but 
also in the selecting of a type of architecture suited to the topography. 

^lany of our colorists tell us that harmony of color depends not alone 
on the proper combination of certain hues but also upon the balancing 
of values. Returning to the creating of the harmonious room, after we 
have defined our proportions and shapes by harmonious lines we next 
plan the distribution of our dark and light masses. As a working basis 
we see to it that our floors with their covering are darker than the walls, 
and the walls darker than the ceiling. In our arrangement of curtains, 
pictures, Hghting fixtures w'e avoid too great contrasts in the unaccented 
portions of the room. For example, white window curtains are never 
used when wliite is not repeated elsewhere in the room — either white 
ceiling, white woodwork, white furniture, white bedspread and dresser 
cover, or white table linen must act as a support or balance for the 
curtains. White and black call attention away from every other value. 
The former use of white mats or frames about pictures, when no other 
white was used in the room, drew undue attention to that which should 
have been a subordinate feature. The present use of black and white in 
woodwork, draperies, wall papers, furniture and rugs is demanding the 
greatest care on the part of decorators to preserve the balance between 
major and minor accents. 

In our nature study painting, we often draw the flower in line to get 
a good composition, then work it out in a neutral composition by using 
flat charcoal masses and finally wash over these neutral tones with our 
colors. Thus we have colors which have an interesting play of dark and 
light. Just so do we plan our room. The balance of dark and light 
colors is as important as the balance of hues. The colors which we use 
in a room in the first place proclaim the spirit or purpose of the room; 
for example the hall inviting you to enter by its general air of friendli- 
ness; the living room expressing " livableness" — not too stimulating by 



224 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

much brilliant color and not characteriess by lack of color; the dining- 
room at present not regarded as a picture gallery or a museum for the 
display of various cuts of glass or colors in china, but as a background 
for a table covered with appetizing food; the bedroom so furnished as 
to suggest rest and repose; the kitchen and bath, with colors which will 
not fade under treatment from sunlight and soap. The color scheme 
may be found in the accent note of the room, either an Oriental rug, a 
beautiful picture, a group of pottery, a bit of tapestry or a beautiful 
wall paper. It seems most satisfactory to work from a defmite scheme 
in this way rather than to risk visualizing the room from an imaginar>' 
scheme. 

Color in walls as backgrounds for people, furniture and pictures is the 
ordinary basis for selection of hues. This is as it should be, for a room 
is hannonized by the wise planning of the background colors. Second 
to the consideration of color as background is the recognition of the effect 
of color upon the nerves of the members of the home. The power of 
certain hues to stimulate and to depress must be recognized or the spirit 
of the home is lost. The success which has attended the Color Recitals 
on the color organ, given in England during the past two years, proves 
the power of color to arouse emotion. The practical problems of color 
are no less important. The physical properties of color, the exposure 
of the room and the amount of light received into the room are all factors 
influencing choice of hue, value and intensity of color. 

If as I said at the beginning, we teach our principles of design through 
these and many otlier problems found in the home, we are ready to take 
up a study of these various items of furnishLng from the liistoric stand- 
point. The history of the home and its fittings is tlie history of man from 
the time when walls first sheltered his family. As we look back to the 
schools of ten or fifteen years ago, we find that we xisualizcd our histor}' 
thus: primitive Ufe we saw, and that of Colonial days, but how hazy 
were our pictures of the home surroundings of the French, the Italian 
and the English people. No one can read "The Decoration of Houses" 
by Wharton and Codman and not feel how accurately was Uie spirit 
of the centuries and the racial traits witliin those centuries f)ortraycd in 
the panelled walls, tapestry hangings, car\'ed furniture and magnificent 
fireplaces of those peoples. Just so docs the scientific sj)irit of today 
manifest itself in the sanitary conditions of our furnishings, such as sun- 
fast curtains, cork and rubber mattings for kitchen floors, furniture 



^^16] HOUSE PLANNING AND FURNISHING 225 

whose upkeep is within the proper time and energy Hmitations, and 
washable wall treatment. 

The last and most important phase of our subject is that for which 
the design and historic study are but the prerequisites. We no longer 
make pictures which never materialize, and we make sketches only when 
necessary to convey our ideas to others or to crystalUze schemes in our 
own minds. 

First, last and always we should keep our school room as a model for 
demonstrating our principles. From kindergarten througli high school 
the rooms should emphasize the element in House Decoration which the 
children can appreciate. For example, the dominant accent of the room 
should be preserved. This may be a group of windows with fern boxes 
and hanging baskets, or it may be a beautiful picture hung where the 
child may see it when seated— not perched above the blackboard next 
to the ceiling; the latter satisfies only the teacher and does not give the 
child the right idea of the relation between himself and the picture. 
The teacher's desk during school hours should demonstrate that work- 
ing conditions and orderly arrangement are not impossible. 

If it is not possible to secure a rest room or a club room to furnish, 
the parents should cooperate with the teachers by allowing the child 
opportunities at home for arranging pictures, selecting, making and 
hanging curtains in their own rooms, trying furniture and rugs in differ- 
ent positions. Estimating amounts and kinds of wall paper, sizes and 
kinds of rugs, buying and placing of the furnishings in one room, is worth 
more to a pupil than painting fifty pictures. Facts gained by this ex- 
perience are to be gained in no other way. For example, a class may be 
at this time working on the problem of furnishing an apartment. This 
apartment is cheaply and quickly built, and this fact has influenced the 
selection of wall treatment. Before the paper hanger or painter is con- 
sulted, observations are made of the conditions of walls of the same grade 
of material which had been standing for one year. The conditions of 
alabastined walls, painted walls, and those papered are compared and 
discussed and the following deductions made. With the drying and 
consequent settling of the wall material the alabastine may peal in 
flakes. If sizing has been first used, this is not so Hkely to happen. 
With flat oil finish, spots are likely to appear where there is excess mois- 
ture. With paper it is found that if the paper has a firm texture and 
no glaze, cracks are less noticeable. In discussing with the paper hanger 



226 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

the amount of paper needed for a given space, it was found that the 
same wall space is covered by one bolt of paper regardless of the width 
of the paper. This led to the discovery- of the fact that some bolts con- 
tain three rolls and some two rolls, and that rolls dilTer, the wide paper 
often having five yards to the roll and the narrow eight yards to the 
roll. Such facts are only to be gained from experience with the practi- 
cal tradespeople. It is true we may dictate these facts and have them 
memorized and returned to us on test day, but intelligent dealing with 
the tradespeople is the secret of satisfactory house furnishing. 

Keeping within certain money restrictions, yet securing efficient 
equipment and artistic arrangement is our aim. Too often we limit our 
problem to one of color arrangement. In selecting curtains and rugs 
the same method is employed as in selecting wall covering. Samples 
of curtain materials are bought and tested for shrinkage, laundry fading 
and sun fading. Observations are made in various homes to find the 
effect of figured and plain curtains upon beauty of woodwork and wall 
paper. Conversation with successful housewives concerning the ability 
of some makes of rugs to lie flat on the floor, to stand much usage, or 
to retain their color leads one to select rugs much more inteUigently 
than if they are selected from the standpoint of color, line and mass 
alone. 

It is the uniting of the problems of household management with the 
problems of household art that forms the subject matter for the House 
Furnishing Course. The two are inseparable, as we who have tried to 
divorce them know. House decoration is mere froth when it is not 
based upon eflicient equii)ment and a scientific distribution of tlie bud- 
get. Household management which is not directed by the art spirit is 
lifeless. 

It might seem that it is the province of the decorator and the furnisher to 
know belter than the la\Tnan all the intricacies and occultism of the tnuie; 
but the man with things to sell, as a rule thinks only of selling them, and from 
his view point the buyer should know what he wants. And ths process of 
learning what is desirable to put into the home to make it the ideal of taste 
and comfort is one so absorbing and so piquant that it becomes a positive 
joy, as exhikrating as the chase, as absorbing as the search for gold. The eye 
learns to see those things to which it was blind before, and the mind dresses 
each discovery with an exqui^'ite draping of the chiiTons of romance and history. 



1916] HOME ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENCE COURSES 227 

HOME ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENCE COURSES OF 
COLLEGIATE GRADE^ 

ALICE LOOMIS 

Professor of Home Economics, University of Nebraska 

People are rapidly learning to turn to their State University for help in 
all lines. Much information is sought from the College of Agriculture 
and its Experiment Station, and from the Home Economics Department 
of the University. The questions range from the feeding of children 
to why bread becomes ropy and cider from sweet apples will not become 
vinegar. Extension work has developed partly in answer to these re- 
quests for aid. Its contribution has been a vital one of immediate 
value. The desire for knowledge and inspiration and for training that 
will make life more intelligible is not confined to the people who want an 
immediate need satisfied. This desire comes to many college women 
who are out of touch with school work. They may have had only 
one year in college or they may perhaps be graduates of eastern 
colleges who have come to Uve in isolated homes in new regions. These 
women desire consecutive work that will lead somewhere. In other 
words, they wish the equivalent of a college course, by correspondence. 

In discussing correspondence work in Home Economics of collegiate 
grade, three distinct questions should be answered: first can it be done; 
second, if it can be done, is there a demand for it; and third, should the 
other questions be answered in the affirmative, how can it best be done? 

In order to answer these questions, a questionnaire was sent out to 
all the Home Economics departments in land grant colleges. The an- 
swers to the first question varied from expressions of honest doubt re- 
garding means of insuring a satisfactory grade of work to the statement 
that "it can not be done, and if it is done by some other institution, such 
work will not be recognized." Four state institutions reported that 
such work is being done. 

I. The University of Wisconsin gives the following courses in Home Eco- 
nomics by correspondence, for college credit: 

1. General sur\-ey of Home Economics. 3 credits. 

2. Applied design. 3 credits. 

3. Selection and preparation of food. 3 credits. 

' Presented at the Conference of Teachers of Home Economics in Land Grant Colleges 
and Universities, held in connection with the American Association of Agricultural Col- 
leges, Berkeley, Cal., 1015. 



228 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

II. The University of Missouri. 

1. Introduction to Home Economics. 2 credits. 

2. Principles of food preparation. 3 credits. 

3. House sanitation. 3 credits. 

4. House decoration. 2 credits. 

5. Principles of the preservation of food. 3 credits. 

III. The University of Nebraska. 

1 and 2. Elementary food study. Under certain conditions, by com- 
plying with the prerequisites required in residence work and doing 
the reading required in residence, one-half of college credit will be 
given, that is, two hours for each course. 

IV. The University of California, in cooperation with the Santa Barbara Nor- 

mal School. 

1. General sur\'ey of Home Economics. 

Courses in infant and adult nutrition, which arc not at present given 
credit, are also given by the Correspondence Department of the Uni- 
versity of California. 

The experience with other subjects shouH be useful in answering the 
question as to whether collegiate work may be done by correspondence. 
Many of this audience remember that Mrs. Richards' contribution to 
the Society for the Encouragement of Studies at Home was tlie develop- 
ment of laboratory work in zoology, geology and biology. After a short 
period of work she reahzed that the enthusiasm of the members was 
only one asset and that the attainment of high standards of work was 
equally necessary. In cooperation with the Association of Collegiate 
Alumnae, correspondence work in science was planned for college gradu- 
ates, but this was given up later as opportunities for resident graduate 
study became more common. One has only to turn to the excellent 
work accomplished by correspondence study in the University of Wis- 
consin to realize the advantages of tliis t\'pe of work when it is well 
carried out. The universal opinion of instructors and students in this 
institution is that there is more close personal contact and a better ac- 
quaintance between student and instructor than in the great majority 
of residence classes. 

It would seem not unwise to say that since science work of college 
grade has been given by correspondence for a number of years in several 
of our large universities, the question of the possibility of this method 
of teaching has been answered. 

Granting that it can be done, we may ask whether there is a need for 



1916] HOME ECONOMICS CORRESPO>roENCE COURSES 229 

it. No one will attempt to maintain that the craving mind of a person 
of college training can be entirely satisfied by the "office boy" training, 
as Dr. Morgan has called it. As another speaker has said, "All teaching 
should be planned for the 'track to carry all that it will bear.'" It is a 
principle in pedagog}^ to appeal to all the experience that the student 
possesses. It would therefore seem to be logical to conclude that the 
college woman out of touch with her luiiversity and needing help in prac- 
tical problems might not be satisfied with the same type of information 
that must of necessity be given to the untrained woman. 

At least two classes of women need and appreciate tliis t^pe of training : 
first, the college trained homemaker whose knowledge of chemistry and 
biology or whose training in other lines of work makes her bring a keen 
mind to the problems which are pressing for solution. Only one who 
has been in contact with such a problem realizes what an opportunity 
for mental life such an opening means. As more college women become 
homemakers and feel the need of expert training for the complex prob- 
lems they encounter, the question is becoming more common, "Can 
we not have something dilTerent from the practical but often dilute 
information given by popular magazines?" 

Teachers in serAace are at present confronted mth the almost unan- 
swerable problem of how to keep in touch with the progress in their 
subject. This problem is made especially acute by the fact that a large 
percentage of teachers have realized that not only was their training 
inadequate but much of it was absolutely erroneous. It is a common 
question asked among teachers who have been out of college for a few 
years, "How much of your subject matter have you had to discard?" 
Many of us have come to the stage where we almost hesitate to ask an 
overburdened high school teacher why she is teaching that lactose is 
the only sugar to use in infant feeding or why she is allowing her students 
to hold a prejudice against cold storage foods. Almost invariably the 
response is first a question for information and then the question of 
where to get more. Often a statement follows that she must "as soon 
as she can afford it, take a summer or a year off and go to Columbia or 
some other school and do some graduate work." The teacher does not 
always realize that it is not the graduate work which she needs, but a 
better grasp of the most elementary work. 

I hope the time will not be far distant when instead of leaving a dis- 
couraged teacher with a list of references used in coUege work, we can 
say to her, "Take a correspondence course in this subject from this or 



230 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

the other university and you will save yourself much time when you 
enter school again, besides gaining tlie satisfaction of knowing that you 
are not passing on erroneous beliefs." Even if laboratory work could 
not be accomplished outside of residence, it would be valuable to develop 
correspondence work for teachers whose technique is often much better 
than their grasp of the subject matter which tliey are tr>ing to link with 
it. 

Correspondence study is also needed in order to set the definite stand- 
ards which must come before any subject can gain an unquestioned place 
in the college curriculum. One person who answered the questionnaire 
must have misunderstood the grade of work considered, for she an- 
swered that no course given outside of the state could possibly meet 
"local needs." The universahty of college standards is too generally 
accepted to make necessary any argument against " CaHfornia nutrition" 
" Missouri home management" or "Wisconsin art and design." Many of 
us are realizing the unsatisfactoriness of present methods of determining 
the place of a student in our courses who has come from a college, pre- 
sumably of first rank. The acceptance of a few definite courses by the 
leading colleges would be an immense help in the fixing of standards, 
temporary though they would be, as are all expressions of ideals. 

The establishment of correspondence study mil allow the develop- 
ment of a much needed method of recruiting teachers of Home Econom- 
ics. Our chairman has said that there is no greater field of work than 
ours and it would seem to be legitimate for the administrative officers 
to look in every place for teachers whose training, broad view, and gen- 
eral experience in educational matters, abihty to see and solve problems, 
coupled with practical training, especially fits them for teaching a sub- 
ject which makes as varied demands in preparation as does Home Eco- 
nomics. These women may have three-fourths, if not more, of the train- 
ing necessary to make them excellent teachers in Home Economics. An 
example may be cited where excellent work is now being done by a teacher 
of clothing and textiles who three years ago scoffed at the idea of taking 
up a new fine of work. I do not know of any women who have been 
brought into the Home Economics work by means of correspondence 
courses, but it is reasonable to suppose that such courses would help 
college women who may be forced to leave their homes, as well as teachers 
of chemistry and other sciences, to decide whether this field of work offers 
the opportunity desired. 

The last question to be answered is how can correspondence coun»es 



1916] HOME ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENCE COURSES 231 

of desirable grade be most economically developed. It must be clearly 
realized that teaching by correspondence is a highly specialized form of 
instruction. It means foresight in the careful collection and organiza- 
tion of all material both laboratory and reference. The personal con- 
tact of the enthusiastic teacher can not be compensated for by careful 
planning, but the appreciation of a teacher for her subject can be carried 
over to the student if the work is properly organized. This means that 
teaching by correspondence can never be successful if it is a side issue 
with over-busy instructors or if it is relegated to instructors who would 
not be given equally high standing in residence work. 

But speciaHsts are expensive and not abundant. Since two cents will 
carry a letter throughout any part of the United States, and the element 
of time in sending a letter is negHgible, there would seem to be no argu- 
ment against the organization of the work so that one specialist will 
do whatever work is to be done in her own line in the whole country. 
Nebraska University has had a correspondence student in Georgia. 
There is no reason why this girl could not as easily take her work from 
Missouri or Wisconsin. The wastefulness of the duplication of effort 
when "plants are running on part time" is as serious a sin educationally 
as it is industrially. The suggestion has been made that it might be well 
for one school to develop work along the line of clothing and another 
along a different Hne and so on. The institution whose residence work 
in economics and sociology, in architecture and in art is particularly 
strong may be able to develop a better course in house management 
than another institution more fortunate in other lines. 

I trust that it is reasonable to conclude that correspondence work of 
collegiate grade can be done in scientific lines (and we are not prepared 
to grant that science is the only basis of Home Economics) and that 
there is a real need for it. Our next step is to organize the work so that 
it may be economically administered, to the end that this phase of study 
may be a contribution, first, in the setting of high standards which shall 
affect the whole field, and, second, in helping people who have a desire 
to attain these standards more quickly than they otherwise would be 
able to do. 



232 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

HOUSEHOLD AMMONIA 

J. F. SNELL 
Professor of Chemistry, Macdonald College, Quebec 

In a paper presented to the Canadian Section of the Society of Chemi- 
cal Industry in January 1914/ the writer reported the results obtained 
in the analysis of some fifteen samples of liquid and six samples of solid 
household ammonia, found on the Canadian market. It was found that 
the solid (powdered) ammonia contained only from 2 to 10 per cent of 
ammonium carbonate, the remainder of the material being apparently 
a low grade of soda containing sodium sulphate and sodium chloride. 
The Hquid ammonia was shown to be a very expensive material in com- 
parison with pure strong ammonia, the wholesale cost of one pound of 
ammonia gas being from 4 to 14 times as much when purchased as 
household ammonia as when bought in the form of pure, strong ammonia. 
In another article^ based on the same results attention was drawn to 
the economic absurdity of the household ammonia industry, the waste 
involved in shipping a diluted liquid about the country where a con- 
centrated one would serve the purpose equally well, and to the fact 
that the burden of this waste falls upon the consumer. 

During the summer of 1915 advantage was taken of an opportunity 
to buy samples of household ammonia and of pure, strong ammonia at 
retail in several different places in tlie Eastern Townships of Quebec, 
so as to afford a basis for comparison of the retail cost of the two mate- 
rials to the small housekeeper. The samples of household ammonia 
were purchased in groceries or general stores in Cowansville, Sweets- 
burg, Farnham, Shcrbrooke and Richmond and the samples of strong 
ammonia in drug stores in the same towns. In one instance a sample of 
household ammonia was obtained in a drug store in addition to the 
sample of strong ammonia. This sample (No. 14) proved to be tlie sec- 
ond strongest and the most economical of the sixteen samples obtained. 
The contents of each bottle were measured and tlie strength of each 
sami)le determined by titrating the ammonia with normal sulphuric 
acid, using methyl orange as indicator. All titralions were made in 
duplicate. From the results the cost of one pound of ammonia gas was 
calculated. The results are exhibited in tlie accompaii>'ing table. 

• Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, M (1914). pp. 1177-78. 
' JoiRNAt OF HouE KcoNOMics, 7 (1915), pp. 22-25. 



1916] 



HOUSEHOLD AMMONIA 



233 



The five brands of which more than one sample was collected are all 
Canadian made and all are put up in dark bottles — doubtless to con- 
ceal the yeUow color which is frequently present. All of these except 
brand I have paper seals over the corks, which seals were not broken 



Household Ammonia 



BRAND 
NO. 


d 

2 

H 
.J 
B. 

IS 


PLACE OV 
PURCHASE 


DESCRIPTION 


J • o 

o 55 ": 
2 S 

z 


o 
a « . 


CON- 
TENTS 

OP 
BOTTLE 


PRICE 

or 

BOTTLE 


COST OP 
1 LB. 
GAS 


I 


1 

2 


Shcrbrooke 
Sherbrooke 


Colorless 

Turbid yellow, a little 


24.70 


4.20 


335 


$.20 


S6.45 








sediment 


7.00 


1.19 


320 


.10 


11.90 


II 


3 


Sweetsburg 


Pale yellow, a little sedi- 


















ment 


17.20 


2.92 


345 


.10 


4.50 




4 


Sweetsburg 


Pale yellow, a little sedi- 


















ment 


33.40 


5.68 


340 


.15 


3 53 




5 


Sherbrooke 


Pale yellow, a little sedi- 


















ment 


18.73 


3.18 


360 


.15 


5,98 




6 


Sherbrooke 


Deep yellow, very little 


















sediment 


29.75 


5.06 


385 


.15 


3.48 


III 


7 


Farnham 


Colorless, slightly turbid 


23.10 


3.95 


350 


.10 


3.28 




8 


Richmond 


Colorless, clear 


9.33 


1.59 


370 


.10 


7.70 




9 


Cowansville 


Yellow, turbid 


22.73 


3.86 


375 


.08 


2.50 


IV 


10 


Famham 


Very deep yellow, turbid 


16.63 


2.83 


350 


.10 


4.58 




11 


Richmond 


P^le yellow, turbid 


18.53 


3.15 


380 


.10 


3.79 


V 


12 


Cowansville 


Pale yellow, clear 


18.00 


3.06 


350 


.15 


6.34 




13 


Richmond 


Deep yellow, clear 


21.08 


3.59 


345 


.15 


5.50 


VI 


14 


Richmond 


Pale yellow, slightly tur- 


















bid 


58.47 


9.95 


375 


.10 


1.22 


VII 


15 


Cowansville 


Colorless, turbid sedi- 


















ment in bottle 


37.38 


6.35 


350 


.10 


2,04 


VIII 


16 


Sherbrooke 


Colorless, very turbid 


















(soap) 


69.70 


11.85 


425 


.25 


2.25 








Average 




4.53 






4.69 


Aver 


age, 


omitting Nos. 1 


4 and 16 




3.89 





until the analysis was begun. The individual bottles of the different 
brands were labeled alike except for a difference in color in one sample 
of brand III and slight dilYerences in design in brands IV and V. There 
was in no instance anything to indicate that more than one grade is 
made by any one manufacturer. 



234 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (May 

The remarkable differences shown in both the appearance and the 
strength of the ammonia found in diiTcrent bottles of the same brand of 
household ammonia constitute a surprising feature of the results. Sam- 
ple No. 1 is more than three times as strong as No. 2 and at the same 
time much better in color. Nos. 7 and 9 are more than twice as strong 
as No. 8, and of the two, No. 9 is much yellower and more turbid than 
No. 7. Again, Nos. 4 and 6 are almost twice as strong as Nos. 3 and 5 
and No. 6 is much more deeply colored than any of the other samples 
of brand II. Once more, the two samples of brand IV and the two 
samples of brand V, although of nearly equal strength, differ greatly in 
color the one from the other. The manufacturers appear to have no 
standard of either strength or color. Nevertheless more than one brand 
proclaims itself upon its label "the standard of strength and purity." 

Samples 14, 15 and 16 evidently do not belong to the general run of 
household ammonias on sale in Canada. They are light-colored or 
colorless and are put up in colorless bottles. Nos. 15 and 16 are in flat, 
oval-shaped bottles, closed wdth rubber stoppers. No. 16 is a turbid 
ammonia containing soap. It is the stron^'est of the samples collected. 
Although it would probably not be suitable for all the uses of household 
ammonia, it is more economical at 25 cents a bottle than any of the 
commoner brands. No. 15, although much weaker than No. 16, is even 
more economical, being only 10 cents a bottle. No. 14; the most eco- 
nomical of all, has been already referred to. 

Turning to the samples of pure, strong ammonia, purchased from 
druggists, we fmd these much more uniform in strength and better in 
color than the "household" varieties. It is mainly the differences in 
price that render Nos. 1 and 2 more expensive than Nos. 3, 4 and 5. 
The cost of one pound of ammonia gas in even the most e.\i)ensive of 
the samples of strong ammonia is much lower than in any of the brands 
of the "household" article with the single exception of No. 14. Even 
in the exceptional instance of No. 14, the cost of the pound of gas is 
greater than lu the pure ammonia (No. 5) bought in Uie same drug store. 
A pound of the gas can be had in this store for $1.04 in the form of pure, 
strong ammonia, whereas in the less pure household article the pound 
of gas costs $1.22. 

In the twin villages of Cowansville and Swcctsburg one may i)uy a 
pound of ammonia gas in the form of pure, strong ammonia for $1.46, 
or by bu>'ing household ammonia one may pay for it in less ])ure form 
$2.04, $2.50, $3.53, $4.50 or $6.34, according to the grocer>- i)atroni/cd. 



1916] 



HOUSEHOLD AMMONLA 



235 



In the last instance one is paying between four and five times the amount 
for which one could get the same amount of gas in purer form from the 
druggist. In Famham the pound of gas in pure form costs $1.32, in 
the impure form $3.28 or $4.58. In Richmond the pound of gas may 
be had at the druggist's for $1,04 or for $1.22 according as one accepts 
the pure or the "household" article, while at the grocer's one may pay 
$3.79, $5.50 or $7.70. The last price it will be noticed is over seven 
times that of the same amount of gas at the druggist's. In Sherbrooke 
the pound of gas costs $1.00 pure, while for the impure one may take 
the choice of paying $2.25, $3.48, $5.98, $6.45 or $11.90. In the last 

Samples of Pure Ammonia 









e^ *^ ra 


o 


CON- 






SAUFLE 


PLACE or PURCHASE 


DESCanTION 




3 w 


TENTS 
OF 


PRICE 


COST OF 
1 LB. 








HOj 




BOTTLE 




AUUO- 








^C/3 •< . 
2 


Sou 
o 


CC. 




NIA GAS 


1 


Cowansville 


Colorless, clear 


27.15 


23.1 


470 


S.35 


SI. 46 


2 


Farnham 


Faint yellow, clear 


26,40 


22.4 


460 


.30 


1.32 


3 


Sherbrooke 


Colorless, clear 


28.75 


24.2 


470 


.25 


.99 


4 


Sherbrooke 


Colorless, clear 


28.25 


24.0 


470 


.25 


1.00 


5 


Richmond 


Pale yellow, clear 


27.78 


23.6 


460 


.25 


1.04 




Average 




23.46 






1.16 



(1 pint, wine measure = 473 cc.) 



instance one pays practically twelve times as much for a yellow-colored 
product as for the same amount of gas in a clear, colorless solution. 

The average cost of one pound of ammonia gas in the sixteen samples 
of household ammonia is $4.69. In the five samples of pure ammonia 
it is $1.16. Thus on the average /owr times as much is paid for an im- 
pure article as for a pure one obtainable in the same towns. Why vdll 
the housekeeper continue to buy at such enonnous disadvantage? 

The strength of the typical household ammonia may be fairly esti- 
mated by averaging the figures of the sixth column of our table omitting 
Nos. 14 and 16 which are exceptionally strong. The result shows that 
one pint of strong ammonia will make sLx pints of household ammonia 
of average strength. 



236 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

EVOLUTIONS OF FASHIONS OF DRESS FOR WOMEN 
NOW ON Exhibition at the U. S. National Museum 

MRS. charlotte LEE 

The idea of assembling American Historical Costumes at the United 
States National Museum, and the suggestion that this exliibition should 
center around the original dresses of mistresses of the Wliite House, 
originated with Mrs. Julian-James of Washington, and she has been 
ably assisted by Mrs. Rose Gouvemeur Hoes, a great-granddaughter of 
President Monroe. Mrs. Hoes is now giving a course of lectures on 
dress, accompanied by lantern slides, before many educational bodies. 

The importance of this work can not be over estimated from an edu- 
cational point of \aew, as it has inspired many persons to study costume 
designing, given dressmakers and milliners aid in their work, and above 
ever>'thing else preserved the historic costumes of the country. 

Some of the many answers to letters received by the secretary of the 
Costumes Committee are conclusive proof of tlie wisdom of this exhibi- 
tion, and these letters in time will form part of the government archives. 
In this correspondence it is frequently apparent that owmers of historic 
dresses failed to appreciate their value, possibly a notable example so 
often seen of "familiarity breeding contempt." Then again the phrase- 
ology of other responses seems almost stereotyped: that many of the 
gowns have been worn out, or by chance were being used as costumes for 
fancy dress balls and tableaux, and sometimes the answer has been 
that these priceless heirlooms have entirely disappeared. As an illus- 
tration, a skirt of many widths of a remarkable gold brocade, formerly 
worn by Mrs. Andrew Jackson Donelson, mistress of the Wliite House 
during President Jackson's administration, at the inaugural ball of Old 
Hickory's regime, was loaned by the owner to be used in an artist's 
studio for drapery, and was destroyed by fire. Another fine old cost'ime, 
unique as an example of dress, was just rescued from the scissors, as the 
possessor had decided in her o'wn mind that it would make such beauti- 
ful fancy work. 

When this exhibition began to assume educational proportions it was 
deemed expedient that the presidential dresses should be placed on 
ivory colored plaster figures, modeled at the National Museum, to illus- 
trate the fashions of women for over a century even to the most mi- 
nute detail, such as gloves, fans, handkerchiefs, shoes, ronibs and hair- 



1916] EVOLUTIONS OF FASHION'S FOR WOMEN 237 

pins. Xo attempt has been made to obtain a facial resemblance to the 
women whose costumes are exhibited; the faces have all been made on 
the same model ; but a very careful study has been made from old prints 
of the coiffure, wliich in each figure represents the fashion of the day, 
and consequently is in perfect harmony with the dress. ^ 

Strange to relate, the dresses of the earlier mistresses of the White 
House have been easier to obtain than those of a later date. The only 
gap in the line of succession of the presidential administrations from 
Martha Washington down to Mrs. Rutherford B. Hayes is the Jefferson 
period, a deficiency which time will supply. A dress worn by Miss Rose 
Cleveland during her life as mistress of the White House is expected 
almost daily at the Museum, and the Lincoln, Andrew Johnson, Garfield, 
and Roosevelt dresses are sure to follow. 

Martha Washington, or as she was styled in revolutionary days, Lady 
Washington, is the only presidential figure seated. When Washington 
became President there was no precedent for a mistress of the White 
House except foreign courts, and Mrs. Washington remained seated 
when recei\dng her guests. The first President never shook hands in 
the present democratic style, but bowed in a most formal fashion. Dolly 
Madison changed the modes and manners of her predecessors by her 
free and easy ways, even to returning all visits, but Mrs. Monroe swung 
back to the old school by refusing to allow her men guests to participate 
in the parties at the Wliite House unless they wore small clothes and 
knee breeches, though this was at a time when the masculine attire was 
made, in part, of pantaloons and shoe-strings. Farther down the line, 
Mrs. James K. Polk ceased to serve refreshments at the public levees, 
and tabooed dancing and serving wine on the President's table. Mrs. 
Taft gave garden parties, served refreshments, and dancing was the 
favorite pastime of her husband's administration. Indeed, President 
Taft indulged in dancing as freely as his young guests, and after a party 
at the White House a young man exclaimed, "only think of rubbing 
elbows with a President." 

In tliis costume exhibition are many dresses worn at inaugural balls, 
wedding dresses of the hobble skirt style, and another bridal attire, the 
dress of the beautiful Harriet Lane, niece of the only bachelor President, 
James Buchanan, on the occasion of her m.arriage to Henry Elliot John- 
ston of Maryland. The material of this dress is moire antique, and 

* The National Museum has published a catalogue containing twenty-two pictures of 
these costumes. Price, 50 cents. 



238 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Mav 

was worn at the time when hoop skirts were fashionable. The figures 
of Mrs. Abigail Adams and her daughter-in-law, Mrs. John Quincy 
Adams, occupy the same case, and are in striking contrast. The older 
woman's dress, a plum colored crepe de chine, is typical of the Puritan 
matron, while Mrs. Adams junior is dressed in a ball gown trimmed in 
the most elaborate manner with silver. 

Among the strongest points of this historical exhibition, which, by the 
way, is the only one of its kind in the United States, is the chance given 
to the student to make an exhaustive study of textiles, view the rise and 
fall of the bustle and hoop skirt, minutely examine a collection of hats ex- 
tending over a period of o\Tr a hundred years, and enjoy in every detail 
women's dress, including all the necessary paraphernalia, from the 
colonial period down to the present time. 



A UNIQUE COLLEGE EXHIBIT' 

AVA B. MILAM 
School of Home Economics, Oregon Agricultural College 

When the plans had been practically completed for the Oregon Build- 
ing at the Panama-Pacific International Exposition, the Department of 
Domestic Science of the Oregon State Agricultural College, which is 
always eager to demonstrate the practical value of Home Economics 
training, seized the opportunity presented by the Oregon Commission 
to conduct a tea room in the Oregon Building during the ten months of 
the Exposition. This tea room was to form the Domestic Science 
exhibit of the College. 

Mrs. Henrietta W. Calvin, at that time Dean of the School of Home 
Economics, and her co-workers began the formulation of plans, whicli 
we must confess were begun with some trc[)idation, for it was evident 
that the expense in running such a tea room would be great, and the risk 
even greater. To justify the exhibit, it must be self-supporting; that 
is, all transportation, which amounted to three hundred dollars per 

» The Industrial Arts Magazine for April contains another account of this experiment, also 
written by Miss Milam, that inclurlcs some of the bills of fare and recipes. 



1916] A UNIQUE COLLEGE EXHIBIT 239 

month, a five hundred dollar concession, and all running expenses must 
be met by the receipts of the tea room. 

It was the desire of the Department to give as many seniors as possible 
the training which this experience would aflord. Two senior women 
majoring in institutional management were chosen, one to have charge of 
the kitchen and storeroom, the preparation of food, the making of menus 
and the ordering; the other to be responsible for the dining room, the 
family accounts and the laundry. Both of these young women were 
engaged until the close of the exposition, and were to receive fifty dollars 
per month and living expenses. Fifty dollars was also paid the woman 
engaged to do the dishwashing and mopping. 

All transportation and living expenses, which amounted to over fifty 
dollars per month per individual, were paid for the forty-eight other 
girls, who received one college credit for each of the six weeks' work 
in the Oregon Building. These senior women were divided into groups 
of seven. The change of one half of each group of students came every 
three weeks. This made it possible always to have three or four students 
with three weeks' experience to work with the new girls. During the 
entire time an instructor from the Domestic Science Department served 
as adviser, and each instructor remained on duty one month. 

These seven changing students prepared and served breakfast and 
dinner to the residents of the Oregon Building, numbering from thirty- 
five to forty. They also prepared and served luncheon for seventy-two. 
The luncheons only were open to the pubHc, and were planned not for 
the same people but for dift'erent ones. It was the desire of the depart- 
ment to make the work an exhibit and to bring it before as many people 
as possible. All the work — the buying, the planning, preparing and 
ser\dng of these three meals — was done by these college women. All 
of the meals consisted of three courses. Somewhat heavy breakfasts 
and dinners were served to the Oregon family, for their luncheons usually 
consisted of "scones." 

Meat, cheese or various types of fish souffles, with Parker House rolls 
and jams were served at every luncheon. The souffles were far more 
generally hked than any meat served. These seventy-five cent lunch- 
eons became so popular that the waiting Hne began to form by eleven 
o'clock, and before the dining room opened at twelve o'clock, all tickets 
for the one o'clock luncheon were given out. The seating capacity of 
the dining room was thirty-six, and so luncheons were served to two 
groups of thirty-six and many were turned away each day. 



240 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May 



Although the number of guests who could be served was very limited, 
hundreds each day stopped as they passed down the corridor and watched 
the girls dressed in white preparing food in a spotless kitchen, all in 
plain view through the glass partitions which closed otT our dining room 
and kitchen from the hall. The sanitary conditions under which food 
was prepared were just as impressive as the appetizing food and were 
just as important a part of our work. 

Governors, foreign and state commissioners, artists and authors stood 
in line for luncheon. It was a most democratic place, for no reservations 
were made for any one. The humblest guest was shown the same cour- 
tesy as the most distinguished visitor. All of this added greatly to the 
lunchroom's popularity. 

The work of these young women was so systematized that all were on 
duty for the preparation and ser\'ing of luncheon, while two prepared 
breakfast, three served and the others were guests. The dinner in the 
evening was prepared by the two who were guests at breakfast, so that 
by the change of duties the students were enabled to see the exposition. 

Needless to say, speed was acquired by these young women; the 
preparation of a three course dinner for forty demanded greater speed 
than is usually acquired in laboratory practice. The students were 
most enthusiastic over the work. Their hours were long and they were 
very tired after each day's work, but their spirit was splendid, for they 
were chosen according to their standard of work in college and their 
general qualifications, and so to represent their college was an honor 
and they knew that the quiet, easy manner which they assumed in their 
work not only brought their college before the public in a most favor- 
able manner, but helped in the dignifying of service. 

It was generally conceded by the Oregon Commissioners that this 
exhibit was the greatest drawing card to the Oregon Building. It was 
not an expensive exhibit, for it proved to be not only self-supporting, 
but when a settlement was made, over two thousand dollars had been 
cleared. One-half of this went to the Commission, which furnished ihe 
equij)ment, and the other one thousand dollars was immediately turned 
over to the Student Loan Fund of the College, to be used in helping 
young women who are struggling for the completion of the college course 
in Home Economics. 



1916] THE SMITH-HUGHES BILL 241 

THE SMITH-HUGHES BH^L 

H. R. 457 (New Number H. R. 11250) 
S. 703 

MARY SCHENCK VVOOLMAN 

Member of Committee on Smith-IIughes Bill of National Society for the Promotion of Industrial 

Education and Member of Legislative Committee of American Home 

Economics Association 

The Need for Vocational Education. One million boys and girls leave 
the schools each year to join the other millions of workers already in 
wage-earning positions. At least two million boys and girls between 
the ages of 14 and 16 are at work yearly in unskilled occupations, for 
as yet the United States has done little to provide a training for them 
which will hft them above the lower ranges of self support. We are 
one of the few large nations which do not provide for the continued 
education of their young people after they have gone to work. 

Those who know the conditions of life for unskilled workers, the 
small wage and difficulties of promotion, realize the seriousness of the 
situation. It is from such untrained workers, drifting from occupation 
to occupation, poorly fed, fatigued and discouraged, that the ranks of 
the unemployed are kept supplied. The problem of vocational education 
is that of guiding them in the choice of a pursuit and training them for 
success. This may be done while they are at work or before they go to 
work. 

The Need for Skilled Workers. The United States is an increasingly 
important industrial nation. Success will depend largely on her work- 
ing people. Neither the pubHc schools nor systems of apprenticeship 
are meeting the need of adequate education for workers. Therefore the 
majority are able to obtain only unskilled jobs. Some means must be 
pro\ided by which the call of the skilled industries can be met. Impor- 
tant groups of trades require women's delicate manipulation and deft 
handUng; yet few girls are ofifered instruction that will give them this 
requisite skill. A great factor in our national prosperity therefore is 
lacking, for the majority of workers being unskilled cannot assist where 
the need is greatest. 

The desire to provide adequate vocational education is felt throughout 
the United States; educators, employers, trade-unionists, social workers 
and philanthropists are united in urging it. Where training has been 



242 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

given, economic returns have been notable in increased wage earning 
ability and better citizenship. Opportunities for vocational education 
should be available for workers in all parts of the country and tlie vary- 
ing needs of the many communities should be considered — the farm 
emplo>Tnents in the field or in the home, the occupations of the small 
town and the highly specialized trades of the greatest industrial cities 
should receive like attention if the United States is to give domestic 
opportunities for all and is to attain greater industrial prominence. 

Some of our states have more or less well developed systems and are 
urging their legislators to greater effort, but even the wealthiest states 
find it difficult to carry the added expense of vocational training and 
many, already heavily burdened with meeting the elementary and high 
school budgets, can undertake little more. 

Several kinds of vocational schools are considered necessary. The 
young wage earners already at work should be helped in day continua- 
tion schools and part-time classes in the factor}' itself, the older worker 
should have adequate instruction in the evening schools, and day voca- 
tional schools may be factors in the preparation of those who have not 
yet entered the working world.' 

The Smith-Hughes Bill. The need of vocational training being ac- 
knowledged as pressing and, in general, tlie states being unable to sup- 
port such instruction, a bill has been introduced into the Senate and 
Congress of the United States to provide Federal Aid to States needing 
it (H. R. 11250 and S. 703) This measure is called the Smith-Hughes 
Bill, so named from its sponsors in the Senate and House — Senator Hoke 
Smith and Representative Dudley M. Hughes, both of Georgia. 

The preamble to the bill in its present form reads : 

To provide for the promotion of vocational education ; to provide for cooper- 
ation with the States in the promotion of such education in agriculture, the 
trades, industries and home economics: to provide for cooperation with the 
States in the preparation of teachers of vocational subjects; and to authorize 
the appropriation of money and to regulate its expenditure. 

The Federal Grants* are given in two forms in the original bill: (1) 
For the training of teachers of agricultural, trade and industrial and home 
economics subjects; (2) For the i>a>'ing of tlie salaries of teachers, super- 

' Report of the Commission on National Aid to Vocatiomil Lducation v. 1, pp. 46-54. 
' Re(X>rt of Commission, v. 1, p. 14. 



1916] 



THE SMITH-HUGHES BILL 



243 



visors, and directors of agricultural subjects, and of teachers of trade' 
and industrial subjects. 

Appropriations are to be given for making studies and investigations 
which shall be used in vocational schools. Some of the stipulations of 
the bill are as follows : 

I. For each dollar received from the government, the state shall expend an 
equal amount for the same purpose besides meeting all costs of plant equip- 
ment and maintenance. 

II. "The controlling purpose of all such education" must be to "fit for useful 
emploj-ment." It must be of less than college grade and designed to meet the 
needs of persons over 14 years of age who have entered upon trade, industrial, 
farming or homemaking pursuits. 

III. The schools aided in part by the National Government must be under 
public supervision and control. 

IV. Before money for training teachers can be received each state must 
show that such training will be given only to persons who have had adequate 
vocational experience in the line of work which they are preparing to teach. 

V. To administer these funds in the states each legislature is required to 
designate or create a state board of not fewer than three members. The 
existing state board of education may be designated. Thus each state will 
have its own board and study its local needs, being free to develop its own 
plans and always taking the initiative in the movement. 

According to the present bill the grants are to be given to the States as 
follows: 



TKAR 


TOWARD 

SALARIES FOR 

AORIC0LT1JRAL 

TEACHERS 


TOWARD 

SALARIES FOB 

TRADE, HOME 

ECONOMICS ANC 

INDfSTRIAL 

TEACHERS 


FOR TRAINING 
OF TEACHERS 

FOR 

VOCATIONAL 

WOKK 


FEDERAL 
BOARD OF VO- 
CATIONAL 
EDUCATION FOR 
ADMINISTRA- 
TION, 
INVESTKiATION, 
STUDIES, ETC. 


TOTAL 

FOR EACH 

YEAR 


1916-17 


$500,000 

750,000 
1,000,000 
1,250,000 
1,500,000 
1,750,000 
2,000,000 
2,500,000 
3,000,000 


$500,000 

750,000 
1,000,000 
1,250,000 
1,500,000 
1,750,000 
2,000,000 
2,500,000 
3,000,000 


$500,000 
700,000 
900,000 
1,000,000 
1,000,000 
1,000,000 
1,000,000 
1,000,000 
1,000,000 


$200,000 

200,000 
200,000 
300,000 
200,000 
200,000 
200,000 
200,000 
200,000 


$1,700,000 


1917-18 


2,400,000 


1918-19 


3,100,000 


1919-20 


3,700,000 
4,200,000 
4,700,000 


1920-21 


1921-22 


1922-23 


5,200,000 


1923-24 


6,200,000 


1924-25 . . 


7,200,000 





The maximum in each case above is continued annually after 1924-1925. 

' .\ change has been made here in H. R. 11250, by inserting the words Home Economics 
after trade. 



244 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

The administration of the bill is to be through a Federal Board cooper- 
ating with the States through their State Boards. The Federal Board 
will extend such aid as will stimulate each State to develop its work for 
itself. Each state is required to submit its plan for using the fund to 
the Federal Board for approval. 

The bill does not offer grants for the regular elementary school work nor 
for high school courses planned for general training or for college admis- 
sion. Help may be obtained, however, for the support of teachers for 
a special section of the high school the aim of which is to provide defi- 
nitely for a vocation. With girls this vocation may be homemaking 
of a serious t>pe or direct wage earning occupations. Simple house- 
hold art work may be given to girls in a continuation school. Girls 
employed in technical trades such as spinning, wea\dng and tobacco 
manufacture, the technique of which is learned better in the trade work- 
rooms, may thus be helped in part-time classes by elementary house- 
hold arts or by direct homemaking. 

The creation of a commission to frame this bill followed a sLx years' 
effort to secure Federal Aid for Vocational Education. The leaders of 
this movement have included Representative Davis of Minnesota, Sen- 
ator Dolliver of Iowa and Senator Page of Vermont. The latter Senator 
is still giving thought and work to the measure. The Page Bill passed 
the Senate in the Congress of 1913. It was lost in the House. The 
Smith-Lever Bill for giving Federal Aid to extension work among farmers 
became a law May 8, 1914 and is now being put into effect. The Smith- 
Hughes Bill extends to the children who work in tlie shops the help given 
by the Smith-Lever Bill to those who work on the soil. 

As illustrations of some of the useful occupations noted by tlie Com- 
mission for which training should be possible for wage earners, the fol- 
lowing^ are given : 

In the trades and industries: The work of the carpenter, the mason, the 
baker, the stonecutter, the electrician, the plumber, the machinist, the tool- 
maker, the engineer, the miner, the painter, the typesetter, the linotype oper- 
ator, the shoe cutter and laster, the tailor, the garment maker, the straw hat 
maker, the weaver, the glove maker. 

In agriculture: The work of general farming, orcharding, dairying, poultr>' 
raising, truck gardening, horticulture, bee culture, and stock raising. 

In commerce and commercial pursuits: The work of the bookkeeper, thr 
clerk, tlic stenographer, the typist, the auditor, and the accountant. 

* Report of the Commission, v. 1, pp. 16, 17. 



1916] THE SMITH-HUGHES BILL 245 

In home economics: The work of cook and housemaid, the dietitian, insti- 
tution manager, and household decorator. 

Home Eco)wmics. The Commission gave serious thought to the ques- 
tion of training girls in Home Economics.* It was felt that every girl, 
no matter what her future calling was to be, should be prepared for the 
varied duties of the home as an integral part of her general education in 
the elementary and high school. The States beUeve in this and are 
developing it, consequently national grants for this purpose are not 
required. There is difficulty, however, in providing home training in 
rural districts, and also the duties of the farmer and his family on the 
farm and in the home are so closely interrelated that the Commission 
has recommended grants for "the occupation connected with the work 
of the farm and the farm home." The Commission recognizes that, 
aside from general training for the home, there are numerous wage earn- 
ing and professional callings for women based upon a knowledge of Home 
Economics; such as, the institutional manager, lunch room head, cook, 
dressmaker and many others. As these require highly specialized train- 
ing, the Commission feels that they should be included under the grants 
for trades and industries. 

The Commission also agreed that the work done by Federal agencies 
in studies, investigations and reports be extended into the field of Home 
Economics. Much has been done, especially in foods: their preparation, 
composition and nutritive values; and also in the construction, sanita- 
tion and equipment of the fami home. These studies have been produc- 
tive of so much good in country districts and in educational institutions 
that they should be enlarged and extended with a view to placing the 
maintenance and care of the home on a more scientific basis. There is 
also need for more detailed information on the salaried and wage earn- 
ing vocations based on a knowledge of Home Economics. Studies relat- 
ing to the purchase and care of clothing, the planning of budgets, personal 
and household, the conservation of health, and maintenance of efficiency 
are needed for use in part-time classes for working girls as well as for 
young housekeepers. The most needed studies are those which will 
reach the average girl who does not go to liigh school or college. 

The status of the bill (April 18, 1916) is the following: — It was 
introduced into the first session of the 64th Congress early in December 
1915 and was referred to the Senate Committee on Education and Labor 

4 Report of the Commission, v. 1, pp. 41, 56, 57. 



246 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

and to the House Committee on Education. Both Committees have 
reported favorably upon it and it is likely to come up for debate on tlie 
floor of the Senate or the House any day. 

The House Conmiittee has already made some changes in the bill: (1) 
altering the Board of Control from five Cabinet Officers to four repre- 
sentative citizens and a fifth member as permanent Chainnan of the 
Board to be the Commissioner of Education of the United States, and 
(2) to provide for the pacing of salaries of teachers of Home Economics 
pro\ading "the controlling purpose of such education shall be to fit for 
useful emplo>'ment." 

The feeling is \videspread that the Board of Control should be rep- 
resentative of industry, commerce, agriculture, labor and education. 
Resolutions not only favoring the bill but also recommending this 
change in the Board of Control have been passed by the following 
organizations: the National Society for the Promotion of Industrial 
Education, the American Home Economics Association, the American 
Federation of Labor, and the Chamber of Commerce of the United 
States. 

The President of the United States, in his message to Congress urged 
attention to this bill. 

There is danger of delay in securing the passage of the bill, due to 
two causes: 

1. The great pressure upon Congress just now to give consideration 
to many other measures of importance. 

2. The growing possibility of an early adjournment of this session. 
The bill will pass if all those interested will act at once. 

If you have not already done so, write at once to your Representa- 
tives and Senators urging them to support the bill and to do ever>'- 
thing possible to secure an immediate vote. 



1916] THE QUESTION- BOX 247 

LOGANBERRIES 

One of the newer berries that has found its way to the western mar- 
ket, tliough not yet well known in the East, is the loganberry — a cross 
between the red Antwerj) raspberr}', and the Aughinbaligh blackberry.' 
It has been grown to some extent in Michigan, but chiefly in Oregon and 
other Northwestern states. 

The vines are trained on wires, and must in many ways receive care- 
ful cultivation. They produce about four tons of berries to the acre, 
and the cost of picking is said to be $20 a ton. 

The berry is found on the market as fresh fruit as far east as Chicago 
during tlie season. It may also be obtained in an evaporated and a 
canned form, but it seems particularly valuable for its juice. 

Probably a dozen firms in Oregon now manufacture this juice, and it 
will soon be introduced quite generally into the eastern markets. It is 
said that in one instance a large brewer\' has given up the manufacture 
of beer and is conlining its efforts to the production of loganberry juice. 
Many consider this superior to grape juice. It is especially good for 
flavoring ice cream and sauces and it may be used with gelatine or 
corn starch for making desserts. 



THE QUESTION BOX 

Question: In a review in the ^larch issue of the Journal someone in- 
cluded Plutchison as out of date. This has aroused considerable in- 
quir}'. In order that we may be able to answer questions, can you tell 
in what respect and how far Hutchison is out of date? Also, will you 
or your re\aewer say who is up to date. We suppose Dr. Sherman is, 
but who else? We shall be greatly obliged. 

Answer: During the past few years many investigations pertaining to 
the nutritive requirements in health and disease have been made by 
leading scientists both in America and in Europe. They have modified 
many of our theories regarding food values. No matter how recently 
a book pertaining to nutrition may have been published, it will not 

' Cyclopedia of Practical Horticulture. By Granville Lowther. \*ol. 11, pp. 124-i. riil>- 
lished by Encyclopedia of Horticulture Corporations, North Yakima, Wash. 



248 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [^I^V 

in all probability contain the last work on many disputed subjects. The 
student of nutrition must keep in touch with more recent literature. 
Were Hutchison to revise his "Food and Dietetics" lie would include 
with many other changes, some discussions on " Vitamines" (Funk), or 
"Growth Determinants" (Mendel), for we know now that animals may 
receive adequate amounts of carbohydrates, fat, protein, water, and in- 
organic constituents and yet be improperly nourished. Similarly, the 
next edition of Sherman's "Chemistry of Food and Nutrition" will un- 
doubtedly contain some modification of his chapter on "Inorganic Food- 
Stuffs." To cite necessary changes in the various textbooks now in 
use would require much more space than can be devoted to such a sub- 
ject in the question column. 

Question: We have been using Hutchison's Food and Dietetics as a 
text and reference book. What book would you recommend to take its 
place? We have Sherman's Chemistry and Food Products, also Jordan, 
but for the teacher who can buy only one book, we know of none better 
than Hutchison. 

A nswer: The question pertaining to the best textbook for the teacher 
of domestic science who can have but one book, is difficult to answer. 
Perhaps the answer to the last question covers this point. I can recom- 
mend no one book. With Dr. Sherman's two books, the government 
publications, including the Experiment Station Record, and Hutchison 
one might be able to manage the grade or high school work. 

Question: Does an acid fruit eaten with a starchy food interfere with 
the digestion of the latter? 

Answer: Since the action of ptyalin, the starch digesting enz}'me of 
the saliva, is inhibited by the presence of add (0.003 per cent hydro- 
chloric) it is possible that the conditions suggested in the above ques- 
tion are not such as to admit of complete salivar\' digestion. 'J'his, 
however, would depend upon the proportion of fruit and starch in tlic 
given dish. Fortunately, we do not depend wholly upon the diastatic 
enz>-me of the saliva for starch digestion. Nature lias provided us with 
a second enzjme capable of hydrolizing starch, namely, tlie amylopsin 
of the pancreatic juice, so tliat tlic starch which escapes digestion in 
the mouth will be digested fartlicr on in the digestive tract. However, 
it has been shown by Maxwell (The Relation of Salivary to Gastric 
Secretion, Rio-Chemical Journal, Vol. 0. 1915, j). ?^2i) tliat colloidal 



1916] THE QUESTION BOX 249 

starch has the power of adsorbing the gastric enzymes. The starch, 
therefore which has not been changed into soluble forms by the salivary 
diastase may interfere to a slight extent with gastric digestion. This 
may be a factor to be considered with those sulTering from hNpochlor- 
hydria. In health we have no reason to believe that tlie slight decrease 
in the gastric enzymes will produce untoward results. 

Question: (a) Is the serving of an acid fruit — orange or grape-fruit — 
as a first course in the breakfast dietetically justified? 

(b) Is this permissible when the second course consists of a cereal and 
cream? 

Answer: (a) Since peptic digestion takes place only in the presence 
of acid — the acidity of the gastric juice being between 0.2 and 0.4 per 
cent, — addition of the small amount of organic acids of the orange or 
grape-fruit, in all probability, does not interfere with normal gastric 
digestion. It is stated by E. H. Starling (Recent Advances in the Physi- 
ology of Digestion, 1906, p. 77) that the secretion of gastric juice is 
increased by the administration of acids. Carlson (American Journal of 
Physiology, Vol. 37, 1915, p. 50) reported that the mastication of bread 
and butter, or the taking of milk into the mouth yields much less gas- 
tric juice in the individual investigated than does the chewing of meats 
or the eating of oranges. 

(b) The acid fruit as a first course, followed by cereal and cream, is 
dietetically justified, provided the individual is not suffering from 
hyperchlorhydria (a hyper secretion of hydrochloric acid). 

Question: Why do breakfast foods disagree "vnth some children? 

Answer: There are several reasons why breakfast cereals may dis- 
agree with children. Cereals are frequently insufficiently cooked; this 
is particularly true of the coarser cereals such as cracked wheat, oatmeal, 
and hominy. For these coarser cereals several hours, from three to five 
hours, are required. By longer cooking the starch is not only more 
thoroughly cooked, but the starch cells of the cereal are more easily 
separated or broken apart when it is chewed. 

Cereals are very frequently so cooked that when milk or cream is 
added a thin porridge is formed and no chewing is necessar>'. The 
starch in this colloidal form adsorbs the gastric juice and thus renders 
it less active (Maxwell: Biochemical Journal, Vol. 9, 1915. p. 323). 
Cereals should be chewed before being taken into the stomach in order 



250 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

to change the starch to soluble forms and to separate as much as possible 
the cells of which the cereal is made up. 

Children are ver>' apt to put too much sugar on the cereal. Here 
the sugar will act quite like too much candy. Frequently this decom- 
poses in the stomach causing the "sour stomach" with which we are so 
familiar. 

Sometimes the large amount of cellulose in the coarser cereals is irri- 
tating to the intestinal walls of the younger children, therefore this 
should be removed by straining before giving the cereal. In those 
cereals which have the outer coats of the grain left on there is also a 
substance, namely, phytin, which increases peristalsis; it is for this reason 
that oatmeal water is frequently given young children who are suffering 
from constipation. Diarrhea has been knowoi to follow the eating of 
such cereals in younger children. 

The Journal is requested to ask for the following information in re- 
gard to a course in personal hygiene and home nursing from those who 
have had experience with a successful course. 

Please reply to the Journal. The information will be sent to the 
questioner and also made available for any others who desire to use it. 

1. Is the course elective or required of Home Economics students or 
of all women students? 

2. In what year is it offered? 

3. How many hours credit are allowed and how much time is required 
for lecture, laboratory- and outside reading? 

4. An outline of the course. 

5. Sections which may be omitted because of other courses covering 
the ground. 

6. Suggestions regarding advantageous changes. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

DISCRIMINATION IN BUYING 

CIIARLOTTE GIBBS BAKER 

In the foregoing papers' some suggestion of the problem of buying tex- 
tiles has been given. It has been stated that there are now seven fibers 
with which one must be familiar besides several modilications of them; 
there are also many weaves in which they appear, as well as a variety of 
finishes given to the cloth woven from them. A suggestion has also 
been given of the tendency on the part of the manufacturers to meet the 
public demand for low priced fabrics ^^^th adulterated materials, and 
to make effect rather than wearing quality the criterion in novelty goods. 

If one is to buy intelligently, one not only must be familiar with and 
able to recognize the different fibers in their various forms, the common 
adulterations and other poor qualities of materials on the market, but 
also must choose among the good fabrics those wliich are best suited 
to the purpose for which one is buying. One must have not only a 
knowledge of materials, but also the ability to determine the relative 
value of different materials for a given purpose, with due regard to the 
size of the family income. 

A knowledge of materials is gained only through experience in buying, 
but less experience is required, and less painful experience, if one is fa- 
miliar with some of the facts about materials. The appearance and the 
feel of a piece of cloth will after all be the tests which must be used in 
most buying, but one must know first how the cloth ought to look and 
feel. 

Cotton cloth because of its dull flat surface, or even a cotton thread 
interwoven with a thread of another fiber, is easy to recognize. Be- 
cause of its elasticity it lacks the firmness and body of linen. By its 
feeling of smoothness it may be distinguished from wool. The broken 
end of a cotton thread has a characteristic blunt and tufted appearance. 

'See the Journal for March, pp. 144-147 and for April pp. 191-195. 

251 



252 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

A match applied to cotton thread or cloth causes it to burn readily with 
a continuous flame. The chief virtues of cotton cloth are its cheapness 
and the ease with which it washes. The first of these virtues it shares 
with no other fiber, the second with linen alone. Cotton, though it 
does not lack beauty, has not the luster of the other fibers. 

Luster is due to the play of light on a smooth surface; cotton may 
be given a smooth surface by either of two methods. In mercerization 
the cotton is treated under tension with alkali, when the fibers untwist, 
swell, and assume a glossy appearance. By heavy pressure between 
engraved rollers cotton cloth may be given a smooth surface with some 
luster. The first of these processes gives a permanent luster, the sec- 
ond a temporary one only. On examination, the luster of mercerized 
cotton is found on both sides of as well as through the cloth, while the 
luster of heavy pressing is a surface luster only. 

Wool owes to its scaly surface, its natural luster and its characteristic 
kink whatever distinction it may enjoy. Wool yam is of two kinds; 
for worsted yam the fibers are combed a number of times until they all 
He parallel; for woolen yam the few processes of arranging the fibers into 
a thread leave them criss cross with the ends projecting all over the sur- 
face. The finishing processes merely shrink and full worsted, making 
it more firm and giving it a finished look. The processes for woolens do 
this and more, as the ends of the fibers are picked up and matted together 
on the surface, thus concealing the threads of the weave. Serge and 
voile are examples of worsteds, broadcloth and flaimel of woolens. 

The long combing of worsteds does not permit the mixture of a fiber 
as short as cotton; on the other hand, cotton may be readily spun with 
wool in a woolen thread. A worsted thread and a cotton thread may 
be twisted together, or threads of the two may be mixed in the weave; 
in cither case the cotton may be readily distinguished. The matting 
together of the fibers in woolen cloth makes it easy to conceal cotton 
in their midst, whether the cotton is in the thread with the wool, or only 
mixed in the weave. The presence of cotton may sometimes be dis- 
tinguished by its flaring up when thread or clotli is burned, as wool burns 
very slowly and with little flame. 

Shoddy, or made over wool, is usually mixed with new wool or cotton 
and can be recognized only when of such poor grade that a thread of the 
material will break to bits with little tension, short threads at the same 
time dropping out. A piece of woolen which lacks luster and newness 



1916] DISCRIMINATION IN BlTilNG 253 

may also be suspected of the presence of shoddy. Shoddy will not be 
found in worsteds. 

Mohair, brilliantine, and alpaca, all products of the hair of various 
goats, are woven with cotton or silk warp. Because of the nature of 
goat's hair the common objection to the mixture of cotton and wool, 
based on the imeven shrinkage of the two and the consequent tendency 
of a mixed material to shrink unevenly does not apply here. 

Since pure silk i^ such a durable material it seems a pity that the de- 
mand for low priced rather than durable silks has limited the supply 
of pure silk fabrics on the market. China silk, crepe de chine, and other 
thin or wash silks are practically pure. Pongee, since the natural gum 
can not be removed, is not weighted. Spun silk, on the one hand, and 
very high grade silks, on the other hand, do not as a rule have much 
weighting. Neither luster nor softness are guarantees of purity in silk, 
for such is the nature of the fiber that even the addition of much foreign 
substance does not destroy its beauty. On the other hand, dull and 
harsh silks may be pure. Spun silk is dull; silk with the gum left on is 
both dull and harsh. 

A thread of high grade silk untwisted between the j&ngers shows very 
few ends of fibers; a spun silk thread shows ends all along the surface; 
the fibers of a pongee thread retain the kinks from the twist of the thread, 
are stiff and fly apart readily. Artificial or as it is commonly called 
fiber silk has a metallic luster, the fibers are as a rule coarser than those 
of true silk, very few ends are visible, and in fact the whole nature of 
the thread is different. 

A silk thread when pure burns slowly leaving a little ball of ash. If 
heavily weighted the burning is slower, sometimes with no flame, the 
amount of ash is greater, sometimes keeping the form of the thread, or 
in the case of cloth, the shape of the original sample. Tests of a num- 
ber of materials give some idea of the comparative amounts of weighting. 
Artificial silk burns quickly, more as cotton does. 

Linen is more difficult than the other fibers to distinguish from its 
cheaper substitute, cotton. Not only is there more similarity between 
linen and cotton when spun and woven into cloth, but this similarity is 
increased by the above mentioned methods of producing luster in cot- 
ton cloth. 

Linen cloth has a characteristic cool feel, is very smooth, often has a 
leathery feel in the heavier grades, and the luster has a different quality 
from the luster given to cotton either by mercerization or by pressing. 



254 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

A single thread of linen, twisted between the fingers and pulled seems 
to pull apart rather than to break, and the ends of the thread are 
pointed rather than tufted as in cotton. The time-honored test of 
moistening the finger and putting it under a piece of cloth, calling it 
linen if the moisture comes through at once, is rehable only if the mate- 
rial is not heavy, and has but Httle starch. 

Ramie, or China grass, is sometimes used in mixture with silk. In 
its pure form it appears most commonly in a medium Hght weight mate- 
rial somewhat resembling linen. However, ramie may be distinguished 
by the stiffness of the material, the high luster, and the ease with which 
it creases. When one once knows the characteristics of ramie it is not 
difficult to identify. 

Jute is found in some upholstery materials, mixed with cotton. The 
fiber is often used in its natural color which is a little darker and some- 
times more yellow than natural linen. It is harsh, as a rule coarse, and 
the thread has a hard appearance. 

The most satisfactory tests for distinguishing fibers are the microscopic 
tests, although chemical tests give fairly ^^ood results. A few of the 
latter, which are applicable to household use, were given in the January 
issue of the Journal. 

Other points to be considered in the choice of materials are: fineness 
of thread, firmness of weave, color, design, texture and finish of the 
fabric. The use to which the material is to be put and the price one 
can afford to pay will determine which of these points is to be given 
greater weight in buying. 

There are materials such as chiffon and tulle which are not expected 
to stand a strain and in which firmness of weave is not necessar}^ A 
simple test for materials in which finnness is desiraljle may be made 
by drawing the material on the bias between the thumb and finger nail 
at the same time noting whether the threads pull apart. Mixtures of 
silk and cotton, in which the silk threads are much Imer than tlie cotton, 
are especially likely to pull in tliis way. Cotton or linen materials 
which lack in firmness may be made to appear well by excessive starch 
ing. This excessive starch may sometimes show in the meshes of a thin 
material when held to the light, or it may perhaps be detected by rub- 
bing the cloth between the fingers. 

The choice of color from the standpoint of fastness is becoming more 
and more difficult, due to the scarcity of fast dyes during the war. In 
the past the quality of the material, the trademark, the word of a re- 



1916] DISCRIMINATION IN BUYING 255 

liable salesman, together with experience have been the guide posts as 
they will be again when industries are restored to normal. Color and 
design should be chosen with due regard to their suitability for a given 
purpose; there is every opportunity here to display refmement of taste, 
whether it be in dress or in house furnishings. The choice of texture, 
too, is important in determining the eflfect of a gown or of a window 
draper}'. Silk mull will not make an attractive princess gown, nor a 
stiff heavy fabric a successful window curtain. 

That cost is determined by other qualities as well as by the fiber con- 
tent of a material is shown by the following examples. Of two handker- 
chiefs costing live and ten cents respectively the former was all hnen, 
while the latter, though finer and more perfectly cut, was all cotton. 
A mixture of cotton and wool shepherd's plaid cost seventy-five cents; 
an all wool serge was bought for fifty cents. A dollar and a quarter 
was paid for a yard of silk and cotton shirting, while a good all silk shirt- 
ing may be had for ninety-five cents. 

Certain characteristics making a fabric desirable for one purpose make 
it undesirable for other uses. The smoothness of the damask weave, 
which makes linen thus woven so desirable for table linen, makes it un- 
desirable for towels as it will not absorb moisture so readily as a huck 
weave. The cool feel of linen, so desirable in summer clothing, some- 
times is objectionable in bed linen. Cotton, while not good for hand 
towels, becomes very desirable when woven differently into a bath towel. 

There is then plenty of opportunity for the application of knowledge, 
taste, and judgment in the discriminate buying of fabrics. As time 
goes on and new products are put on the market the problem of buying 
rather than becoming simpler is constantly more complicated. If the 
family income is to be wisely and profitably spent, women must meet 
this problem with increased intelligence. 



256 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

THREE WOMEN AND A FARM 

ELLA KAISER CARRUTH 

With a large lawn between it and the road, with an orchard on one 
side and a garden on the other, an old farmhouse stands upon its low 
foundation. It is the homestead of one of the "old families" of the 
county and its appearance almost any day indicates that old-time hos- 
pitahty still holds sway.That the hospitality is paid for by the guests 
makes it none the less enjoyable. This delightful house is being turned 
to account as a shelterer of "paying guests" (from one to eight in num- 
ber) by the three sisters who own it and the surrounding two hundred 
and twenty acre farm. 

Returm'ng to the home of their childhood after perhaps a score of 
years of city life, the owTiers cleverly utilized all their capital in making 
the best possible H\dng from their inheritance. 

Not least among their assets is the house, which has been skillfully 
remodeled and modernized just enough to add the necessary comforts 
without spoiling the real farmhouse atmosphere. The wide fireplaces 
about whose crackling fires it is a pleasure to gather on the cool days 
and evenings of the milder seasons, have been supplemented by a steam 
heating system. This insures the uniform heat so necessary for winter 
comfort. A gasoline engine sends water to the tank supplying the bath 
room which has been added to the house. A telephone brings city 
friends within hailing distance of the paying guest. 

Although the porch and lawn and fields beyond lure the guest on 
warm days, the delightfully large and yet cozy li\ing room aflords a 
welcome retreat on cool days. In the early spring and late fall it is the 
center of attraction and deservedly, for it is a rare room. At one end 
the generous fireplace surrounded by easy chairs suggests a quiet hour 
with book or magazine. Ample couches conduce to even greater re- 
la.xation. The windows on three sides of the room give a variety of out- 
look and shed much hght upon the well-filled book case on the fourth 
side. Between two of the windows stands a piano for those musically 
inclined. The floor is covered with beautiful soft-toned oriental rugs, 
selected with faultless discrimination. 

The bed rooms are all air>', clean and simply but comfortably furnished. 

The entire atmosphere of the house, from the low, \inc-covercd porch 
to the dining room with its long table covered with a snowy cloth and 



1916] THREE WOMEN AND A FARM 257 

decorated with a freshly gathered centerpiece of flowers, welcomes the 
guest and makes him feel at home. 

A few menus, chosen at random during the time when the strawberry 
bed was at its prime and the garden yielding bountifully, will ser\'e as 
an example of the fare. 

Breakfasts 

(Practically the same every day) 

Fruit Egg3 Mufiins or Toast Coffee 

Dinners 

I 

Baked Ham New Peas New Potatoes in Cream Sauce 

Jelly Pickles 

Strawberries Cake Cottage Cheese Coffee 

II 
(Sunday Dinner) 

Fricasseed Chicken Boiled New Potatoes Steamed Dumplings 

Stuffed Peppers Pickled Pears 

Pineapple Salad Cheese 

Ice Cream and Crushed Strawberries Cake Coffee 

Suppers 

I 

Strawberry Shortcake Baked Beans Cake Coffee 

II 
Potato Salad Cottage Cheese Strawberries Cake 

These casually chosen bills of fare give a very inadequate idea of the 
excellence of the table. As can be seen, however, the one who plans 
the meals has progressed far from the ideal of our grandmothers that 
the table, to be satisfactory, must groan beneath its burden. Although 
there is always an abundance of everything, excessive quantity has 
given way to well balanced quaHty. For instance, the importance of 
picking vegetables and berries a short time before serving is realized 
and acted upon. The table is supplied as far as possible from the garden. 

The value of a tempting appearance is also recognized. All the dishes 
are attractive to the eye as well as to the palate. That a table so good 
in both these respects can be provided with only one maid to help the 
housekeepers is more easily appreciated than understood. It bespeaks 
many of the "cardinal virtues" in the maid and more in the mistresses. 

One sister presides at either end of the table and "table talk" never 
lags. All three of the hostesses are college women and well abreast of 



258 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

the times. Although they do most of the cooking and other work of 
the house, there is no indication as they take their places at the table 
that they have just been working in the heat of the kitchen. 

Besides managing the house so cleverly as to make it very popular 
with the people from the neighboring city who are so fortunate as to 
know about it (they never advertise), the sisters also oversee the run- 
ning of the farm. The one who acts as business manager of the house 
acts in the same capacity there where her interests lie principally in 
two directions. 

The place is primarily a dairy farm. A tenant farmer, working "on 
shares," performs the actual work of raising and gathering the crops, 
all of which are used to feed their herd of thirty or forty Holsteins. 
All the milk except that used at home is sold to a large distributing firm 
in the city, some thirty miles distant. 

The "sugar bush" of from twelve to fourteen hundred trees >ields an 
income by no means inconsiderable. From the sale of the maple syrup, 
the owners expect to realize enough to pay all the "help" for the year. 
Incidentally it has a double attraction for the guests. In the summer a 
walk through tliese woods is most delightful. In the spring and \\'inter 
evenings "sugaring off" is a rare treat to the people from the city where 
the snow is seldom clean enough to permit of such use. 

For the pleasures of the country combined with the "comforts of 
home," for the freedom of the fields and woods, for superior meals, for 
the attentions of cultured and most efficient hostesses the weekly cost 
is twelve dollars. The charge per day is two dollars and per meal 
seventy-five cents. 



SOME WAYS OF USING JUNKET 

ERNESTINE P. SWALLOW 

In connection vdth the article in the April issue of the Journal in 
regard to rennet some readers may be interested in the following recipes 
which have been very satisfactor>' and received witli much favor in the 
family of the writer. These have been gathered from various sources 
and modified slightly. 



1916] SOME WAYS OF USING JUNKET 259 

JUNKET WITH FRUIT 

Dissolve 4 tablespoonfuls sugar in 1 quart of milk. Heat till barely 
luke warm (about body temperature, 37°C., 98.6°F.)- Stir in 1 junket 
tablet dissolved in 1 tablespoonful cold water. Pour into small cups or 
frapp6 glasses, filling half full. Let stand in a warm place till set. Chill. 
Put strawberries crushed with sugar on top and cover with whipped 
cream sUghtly sweetened. Peaches or any fresh or preserved fruit or 
berries may be used in place of strawberries. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM 

3 pts. sweet milk 2 c. sugar 

1 pt. heavy cream 4 tsp. vanilla 

Heat till luke warm and add two junket tablets dissolved in 1 table- 
spoonful cold water. Leave in warm room till jellied. Freeze. 

For Strawberry Ice Cream omit vanilla and add juice of berries just 
before freezing. 

CHOCOLATE JUNKET ICE CREAM 

3 sq. chocolate 3 c. sugar 

2 tbsp. boiling water 2 qts. sweet milk 

1 pt. hot milk 1 pt. heavy cream 

Mix the chocolate and boiling water, add hot milk and boil until it 
foams. Then add the sweet milk and the cream. 

When lukewarm stir in three junket tablets dissolved in 1 tablespoon- 
ful cold water. 

Let stand in warm room till firm. Freeze. 

PISTACHIO BISQUE ICE CREAM 

4 c. lukewarm milk 1^ junket tablets 
1 c. heaxy cream 1 tbsp, vanilla 

1^ c. sugar 1 tsp. almond ext. 

I tsp. salt Green coloring 

1 tbsp. cold water Chopped English walnuts or almonds 

Prepare as for Vanilla Ice Cream, adding flavoring, coloring and nuts 
just before freezing. 

The chief advantage of junket ice cream is that it makes a smooth, 
ricli ice cream with a small amoimt of cream. 



260 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May 



WATERWORKS OUTFIT FOR THE HOME 

Prepared by the Extension Service, Alabama Polytechnic Institute, 
Auburn, Alabama 

The outfit here shown includes an ordinary force pump and a barrel for 
the elevated tank. The tank should be placed as shown, immediately 
outside the part of the kitchen where the sink is located. A hole is bored 
in the barrel for a half-indi water pipe to wliich the faucet is screwed. 



roH s/a£ OF rfx.'ss 




^-s^v^;-;^^i^xv<:^^<i;i^^^'j^%j^':^^ j^ fe^$5^ 



jr/nc^ o.'jcr TO I faor j ! 



/ ^^ 



The barrel should be fitted with a cover to prevent entrance of mosqui- 
toes and other insects, and to keep out dust and fl>'ing leaves. Just 
below the cover, a hole is bored to accommodate the rubber hose 
from the pump through which the water is supplicfl. 

The platform for supporting the tank may be braced as shown and 
should be made of boards about 1 inch thick. The sink may be either 
plain or galvanized iron; but an enameled sink costs very little more and 
is decidedly superior to any other form. 



1916] DAILY QUESTIONS THAT MOTHERS SHOULD ASK 261 

The drain may be carried from the sink by the ordinary S-trap 
made of 1 j inch lead pipe and fitted to the 4 inch tile drain pipe where a 
sanitary sewer is maintained. If there is no closet drain connected and 
this is to be used for kitchen drainage only, a simple and cheap arrange- 
ment may be made as shown by the dotted lines. The pipe is simply 
a straight 1\ inch water pipe fitted to screw into a board trough made of 
three boards, as indicated in the drawing. 

The cost of the outfit is approximately as follows: Pump, $7.50 to 
$15, depending upon the make of the pump; sink, SI to $4; lead pipe, 
$1.50; iron pipe 1^ inch size, about 8 cents per foot; faucet, J inch 
size, 75 cents. 

The entire outfit can be installed at from $10.00 to $25.00, according to 
the quality of materials used. 



DAILY QUESTIONS THAT MOTHERS SHOULD ASK 

A good review of the information in a new Farmers' Bulletin^ 
''Food for Young Children" is found in these questions given at the 
end of the Bulletin. Every motlier who has young children will want 
to send for this Bulletin. 

Did each child take about a quart of milk in one form or another? 

Have I taken pains to see that the milk that comes to my house has been 
handled in a clean way. 

If I was obliged to serve skim milk for the sake of cleanness or economy, 
did I supply a little extra fat in some other way? 

Were the fats which I gave the child of the wholesome kind found in milk, 
cream, butter, and salad oils, or of the unwholesome kind found in dough- 
nuts and other fried foods? 

Did I make good use of all skim milk by using it in the preparation of 
cereal mushes, puddings, or otherwise? 

Were all cereal foods thoroughly cooked? 

Was the bread sogg>'? If so, v.'^.s it because the loaves were too large, or 
because they were not cooked long enough? 

Did I take pains to get a variety of foods from the cereal group by serving 
a cereal mush once during the day? 

> Food for Young Children. By Caroline L. Hunt. U. S. Dept. .\gr. Bui. 717. 



262 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May- 

Did I keep in mind that while cereals are good foods in themselves, they 
do not take the place of meat, milk, eggs, fruit, and vcgctableii^ 

Did I keep in mind that children who do not have plenty of fruit and 
vegetables need wholewheat bread and whole grains served in other ways? 

Did each child have an egg or an equivalent amount of meat, fish, or 
poultry? 

Did any child have more than this of flesh foods or eggs? If so, might the 
money not have been better spent for fruits or vegetables? 

If I was unable to get milk, meat, fish, poultry, or eggs, did I serve dried 
beans, or other legumes thoroughly cooked and carefully seasoned? 

Were vegetables and fruits both on the child's bill of fare once during the 
day? If not, was it because we have not taken pains to raise them in our home 
garden? 

Did either the fruit or the vegetable disagree with the child? If so, ought 
I to have cooked it more thoroughly, chopped it more finely, or have re- 
moved the skins or seeds? 

Was the child given sweets between meals, or anything that tempted him 
to eat when he was not hungry? 

Was he allowed to eat sweets when he should have been drinking milk or 
eating cereals, meat, eggs, fruit, or vegetables? 

Were the sweets given to the child simple, that is, unmixed with much 
fat or with hard substances difficult to chew, and not highly flavored? 

\\"as the food served in a ncal and orderly way and did the child take time 
to chew his food properly? 



EDITORIAL 

Women's Industry After the War.' N. Adlcr, in a recently pub- 
lished article, recognizes that in dealing with the emplojinent of women 
it is still too early to say how industry will reorganize after the war or 
even whether the present conditions ^^^ll remain stable while hostilities 
last; yet he believes that a study of the changes which have taken place 
in England during the first fifteen months of the war may indicate 
certain lines to be avoided and emphasized when the readjustment 
comes. 

Although much of the material presented bears on the problems of 
labor rather than those of the household, some of the facts and tend- 
encies described are of direct interest in Home Economics. For ex- 
ample, the fact that women are frequently serving in the place of 
salesmen in large provision estabhsliments and that special classes have 
been organized for training them in this work, may mark the beginning 
of a lasting change in the marketing system. That women have been 
introduced in the place of men as waiters in both restaurants and clubs, 
may lead to tlieir employment becoming customary. If, as seems 
possible, it should prove easier to train them in habits of cleanliness, 
they might prove superior to men in spite of their inferior strength and 
the other disadvantages which have hitherto prevented their employ- 
ment in such establishments. 

Bearing more directly upon household conditions is the fact that the 
temporary opening of many trades to women has reduced the supply of 
house servants. As long as general social conditions continue to curtail 
family expenditures, this may not be seriously felt, but it seems un- 
likely that the supply will reach its former figures, even when other 
conditions shall have returned to the normal. In the author's opinion 

While it is probable that a simpler style of living may be the result of the 
drain on the national wealth, it seems unlikely that the supply of trained 
domestics will meet tlie demand, unless the conditions of work are made 

^Contemporary Review, reprinted in The Living Age, no. 3733, January 22, 1916, pp. 
207-213. 

263 



264 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

more attractive, and domestic service is regarded as a highly skilled industry 
on a par with dressmaking and the other skilled needle trades. Better teach- 
ing in the domestic trade school, the keeping of fewer maids, and those better 
paid and better equipped, combined with less onerous service, may prove one 
method of deahng with the problem. 

Prof. Bruno Roselli in a lecture a few weeks ago at Ford Hall," Boston, 
discussed the relation of the war to the immigration of Italian women. 
The fact that so far the Italian men who have come have greatly out- 
nimibered the women (the proportion varying from 9 to 1 down to 4 to 
1) has complicated the Italian problem in many ways. He believes that 
the immigration of women as well as the knowledge that the Italian has 
gained through his war experiences in regard to sanitation and cleanli- 
ness wiU do much towards solving the problem of what to do with the 
Italian immigrant. 

He suggests too that Italian house maids will help to solve the domestic 
service problem, believing that as more women come they will be avail- 
able for this work. He calls attention to the fact that "Italian women 
are very domestic in their tastes, notable housekeepers, good economists, 
almost unexceptionally good cooks." 

Even though we may believe that the domestic service problem is 
not to be solved in so simple a way, it is interesting to have the opinion 
of an Italian that it may at least be affected by the incoming of a great 
many Italian women. 

Professor Roselli also believes that trades and professions that pro- 
duce luxuries will be recruited by jewellers, dressmakers, artists and 
those who have no opportunity at home and that the character of the 
immigration will be changed. 

"The Goal of Household Efficiency." The "Efticicnt House- 
wife" and "Why Girls Should Not lie Taught To Do Housework" 
are the respective titles of two articles in the Independent for March 20. 
They represent from the social standpoint two extreme views. 

At first sight Mr. Purinton, the writer of the former articles, would 
seem to be more in sympathy with the aims and purposes of our Associ- 
ation. Mrs. Bruere, the author of the other, has confused domestic 
science and domestic service, has used for illustration mcthotis of work 
that we hope are being discarded, has msisted upon the antithesis of 

'Italian Immigration After the War. Tonl Hnll r.ilks, Manh ^, 1916. 



1916] EDITORIALS 265 

"domesticated" and "socialized," has misinterpreted statistics, and 
has failed to realize that whatever she may think of the desirability to 
the woman of "the city apartment hotel where her duties consist of 
checking the monthly bill," the majority of married women do not and 
cannot live under such conditions. They must of necessity "do house- 
work," and the power to do this in a minimum of lime with an optimum 
result depends largely on their training for it, either by precept or ex- 
perience. And yet — if her thesis is rightly stated in the editorial that 
summarizes the series of which this article is the first- we fmd ourselves 
in greater s}Tnpathy with her point of view than with Mr. Purin ton's. 

She contends that the real object of household efficiency is to trans- 
form as much housework as possible into community work and to reduce 
the rest to a minimum "so that women may have a chance to do some 
of the other things, from regulating the gas supply to supervising the 
schools, that need to be done in a country that is trying to be a democ- 
racy;" and that "every new apparatus for house cleaning, every satis- 
factory' prepared food, .... every invention" is a direct step 
toward women's political, social and industrial enfranchisement for a 
larger usefulness." Mr. Purinton, on the other hand, while he advo- 
cates training and study and a business administration of the household, 
in the questions that he formulates for the guidance of the housekeeper, 
has not one suggestion of social service or interest, not one hint that 
any part of woman's work lies outside the house, and that the home if 
it is a real community center must have radii reaching to the circum- 
ference of society; and he has no vision of the meaning of the home of 
today. 

But why does the Independent ask if the aim of household efficiency 
is "to make the home a better place to live in or an easier place to get 
away from?" 

The "ultimate end of the movement" is to make the home the best 
possible place in which to live, and to give to the woman as well as to 
the man a "region of choice," enabling both to share the social oppor- 
tunity and social responsibility that are a part of true democracy. 



266 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (Mav 

COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 

To the Editor of the Journal: 

I wish to raise the following question concerning the article in the Janu- 
ary number of tlie Journal on "The Comparative Cost of Homemade 
and Baker's Bread." As I tried to read the article, I had great difhculty 
in checking up the results because of the different standards used. About 
one-half of the data seems to be given in measures and the other half in 
weights. This seems to me a very unwise procedure that may lead to 
much inaccuracy. For instance, the weight of the flour used is not 
given. We have a good deal of data about the amount of bread that 
may be expected from a pound of flour, and in our experiments it varies 
from li^o to 1 10 pounds. Bakers say that a yield of 1^ pounds in bread for 
a pound of flour is a low average. It seems to me the experiment ought 
to be restated witli the weights of the materials before one is prepared 

to draw inferences. The yield of flour in bread seems a very unusual one. 

Isabel Bevier, 
University of Illinois. 

The author of the article, Mrs. Marsh, submits this statement: 

In the article "The Comparative Cost of Homemade and Baker's Bread" 
in the January, 1915, Jour.val, measurements were given in the table, as its 
object was to give costs and these were more readily reckoned by measure- 
ments. I give the f (allowing weights. 

3 tabltspoonfuls sugar 
3 " lard 

1 yeast cake 
13 cups flour 

Total 66.5 oz. 
This would give a yield in bread of about 1.7 lbs. f )r 1 lb. of flour. I 
wish to state also that these results were those of a single isolated experi- 
ment and could not be considered as an average result checked up by a 
series of similar experiments. 

To the Journal of Home Economics: 

Is it not time that the American Home Economics Association and its 
Journal took i.ssue with school boards and superintendents of schools 
on these points? 

The tendency to increase the number of pupils for laboratory work. 

The tendency to decrease the period of time for such work. 

The contract plan of equipping school kitchens. 

The contract plan of furnishhig groceries and supplies. 

.'\nna Bakhows, 
Trackers CoUegf. 



1.5 


oz. 


1.5 


'(I 


.5 


(( 


630 


<< 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
JotTRNAL OF HoME ECONOMICS if the Joumal price is listed. 



The nigh Cost of Living. By G. H. Gerber. 
New York: The New York Book Com- 
pany, 1916, pp. 150. $0.50. 

Lower Living Costs in Cities. By Clyde 
Lyndon King, Ph.D. New York: D. 
Appleton and Company, 1915, pp. 8+355. 
$1.50. 

The fact that books of this character seek 
for comment in the pages of a joumal de- 
voted to Home Economics marks a great 
change in attitude toward subjects affecting 
the home. The preparation of food and 
clothing within the home no longer marks the 
confines of the housekeeper's duties. She is 
beginning to realize that purchasing has be- 
come for her a larger and more important 
function than manufacturing. An appre- 
ciation of this fact necessarily places upon 
her the need of understanding the factors 
involved in the process of purchasing and this 
leads naturally to fundamental conceptions 
in economics. So Mr. Gerber in dealing 
with labor, capital, trusts, franchises and 
railroads strikes at the very heart of living 
costs. His discussion is suggestive but the 
validity of its argument can be determined 
only by a well trained student. 

Dr. King's book on the other hand deals 
with many concrete problems directly con- 
nected with the administration of the house- 
hold. Half the book is devoted to Urban 
Food Costs. The forces %vhich fix prices 
are described and measures for better dis- 
tribution are indicated which would result 
in great economies and presumably in low- 
ered prices. The remainder of the book is 
given to a discussion of Other Urban Living 
Costs including such matters as health, 
recreation, housing, education, municipal 
utilities and ta.xation. 



Dr. King truly says "urban living costs 
are what we make them. To a large extent, 
they are the result of community inefficiency. 
Minimum living costs, particularly in dense- 
ly populated centers, must mean social 
foresight and social efficiency and virility in 
public action, to the end that useless costs 
may be eliminated and sane, effective pro- 
grams for social efficiency be carried into 
execution. The future, as to living costs, 
will depend largely upon the individual's 
initiative in increasing his own productive 
power, individual sanity in making standards 
and income meet, and individual persever- 
ance and effectiveness in securing virile and 
wholesome community and social action." 

It is well that homemakers should pon- 
der on these things and act intelligently for, 
as Xenophon made Socrates say, "while the 
husband has the making of the money of 
the household the wife has the spending of 
it," and many coinnmnity undertakings be- 
long in truth more to women than to men. 

Chemistry of Familiar Things. By Samuel 
ScHirucKER Sadtler. Philadelphia and 
London: J. B. Lippincott Company, 1915, 
pp.320. $1.75. By mail of the Journal, 
$1.90. 

The Chemistry of Familiar Thingsis writ- 
ten for the benefit of the person without sci- 
entific training who is interested in the appli- 
cations of science. The authorship of the 
volume is sufficient guarantee of the accuracy 
of the facts offered, but the field covered is 
so broad, the treatment of each subject so 
brief, and the arrangement of subjects so 
empirical that he hope expressed by the 
author in the preface that it will ser\e as a 
textbook in brief courses of chemistry seems 
hardly justified. It would provide excel- 

267 



268 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May 



lent supplementary reading for science 
courses in secondary schools or brief col- 
legiate courses. Although the volume is 
named chemistr>', the applications of physics 
are numerous. The literary style is fluid, 
direct, and interesting, and the treatment is 
held at a remarkably even plane throughout 
the book. 

The chapter on Light serves to illustrate 
the empirical arrangement of subject matter. 
A brief description of the nature of light, of 
the characteristics of different wave lengths, 
of ultra violet light in relation to photog- 
raphy and sunburn, of the difficulties of 
imitating daylight, and the methods which 
are used toward that end, is followed by a 
description of the sources of light and the 
devices for making illumination effective — 
bacterial phosphorescence, fire flies, acety- 
lene, natural gas, coal gas, water gas, kero- 
sene, electricity, Welsbach mantels, and 
types of filaments. The chapter ends with 
two pages devoted to matches, and platinum 
sponge and cerium lighters. 

Other chapters are devoted to heat com- 
bustion and insulation, air oxidation and 
ventilation, water, metals, the earth's evolu- 
tion, soil, food and feeding, fermentation, 
soaps, paints, paper, textiles, leather, rub- 
ber, and glass. 

The Invalid and Convalescent Cookery Book. 
By Alys Lowth. New York: Longmans, 
Green and Company, 1914, pp. 120. 
$0.60. 

There is little new among the three or 
four hundred recipes in this book. Aside 
from the chapter on hot and cold drinks 
there are few of the dishes that are especially 
adapted to invalids, while many of the reci- 
pes are hardly suited even to the convales- 
cent. 

The author makes some extreme state- 
ments, for example, "White bread is no more 
nourishing than sawdust; it is quite useless 
as food, for all the constituents that are 
necessary have been removed from the flour." 
"Baking powder in all its varieties is nothing 
less than a slow poison; it retards digestion 
and causes dyspepsia." "As a substitute 



for baking powder or suet there is nothing 
to beat soaked sago." 

The time given for boiling a fowl, — 
(three-quarters of an hour for a large bird — 
twenty to twenty minutes for a small one), 
and such statements as "If milk and eggs 
are mixed cold before baking, the custard 
gets watery," make one doubt the accuracy 
of the methods used, though one who is 
looking for new recipes may find some sug- 
gestions. 

One of the interesting recipes is that for 
plain paste based on sago soaked in milk or 
water, wheat meal and butter. 

There seems to be little excuse for the 
first two chapters, or for the last with its 
"home remedies." 

My Cookery Books. By Elizabeth Robins 
Penneli,. Boston: Houghton, MiflBin 
and Company, 1903, pp. xiv + 172. $20. 

Old Cookery Books. By W. Carew Haz- 
LiTT. Originally published in Book Lov- 
er's Library, Pop. Ed., London (Eliot 
Stock), 1902, pp. 272. $1.25. 

These volumes are worth calling attention 
to, not because they are new, for they were 
published over ten years ago, but because 
they deserve to be better known among those 
interested in the historical development of 
cookery. 

Mrs. Penneli owns an exceptionally large 
and varied collection of old cookery books, 
ranging from the Latin Apicius Coelius of 
1486, to those of the present day, but none 
later than the 18th Century is here included. 
While her English collection is the largest, she 
has also gathered manj* interesting Italian, 
French, and Spanish volumes. Her de- 
scription of the books and their coc tents 
gives a charming sketch of the general de- 
velopment of books of this type, from those 
which deal only with the preparation of 
royal feasts and banquets to those which 
concern themselves with the cvery-day con- 
ditions in ordinary households. It reflects 
the early supremacy of Italian taste, fol- 
lowed by the more refined standards of France 
in the "grand century," and the half-resent- 



1916] 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



269 



ful, half-subservient yielding of the English 
to the influence of their Gallic neighbors. 
Many readers will doubtless be surprised 
to find that some of the most popular cookery 
books of the 18th Century ran into as many 
as thirty editions. Mrs. Pennell's book 
itself is an exceptionally fine e.xample of the 
bookmaker's art, and the illustrations, copied 
from title pages and pictures in old books, 
are perfect of their kind. The edition was 
limited and is now exhausted, but the book 
can probably be found in large public 
libraries. 

Hazlitt's little volume seems to be the only 
other one in English that covers at all the 
same ground as Mrs. Pennell's. Though far 
from being as beautiful a book, it has the 
practical advantages of summarizing its facts 
more systematica ly and of being available 
at a much lower price. 

A Group of Cook Books 

Afanual of Creole Cooking. By J. E. Triay 
{Manual del Cocinero Criollo.) Havana, 
Cuba, 1914, pp. 319. 

A compilation of recipes for the prepara- 
tion of Creole dishes and such Spanish, 
French, Italian, and English dishes as are 
generally served in Cuba. 



California Mexican-Spanish Cookbook. By 
Bertha Haffner-Gincer. Los Angeles, 
Cal. : Citizens Print Shop, 1914, pp. 1 1 1 + 
12, pis. 20. 

A book of recipes for the preparation of 
numerous Spanish dishes, which also con- 
tains illustrations of native processes of 
cooking, ovens, kitchens, etc. 

Anglo-American Cooking. Central- American 
Cooking. By S. C. Gov {La Cuisine 
A nglo-A mlricaine. La Cuisine de I'A meri- 
que Cenlrale.) New York: L. Weiss and 
Company, 1915, pp. 489. 

This book contains a large number of 
recipes for the preparation of dishes com- 
mon to the United States and Central 
-■America. 

Indian Chutneys, Pickles, and Preserves. 
Calcutta: Thacker, Spink and Company, 
1914, pp. 92. 

This compilation of recipes gives direc- 
tions for making genuine East Indian prod- 
ucts and includes the use of materials not 
common in the United States. Neverthe- 
less it might prove suggestive to house- 
keepers and teachers who wish to make simi- 
lar products from available fruits and other 
materials. 



PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 



Digestibility of Some Animal Fats. By C. F. Langworthy and A. D. Holmes. Washington, 

D.C.:GovernmentPrintingOfrice, 1915, pp. 23. $0.05. Supt. of Documents. U.S. 

Department of Agriculture Bulletin 310. 
Essentials of Sxvimming Fool Sanitation. By Wallace A. Manheimer. Washington, D. C: 

Government Printing Office, 1915, pp. 16. Supt. of Documents. U. S. Public Health 

Service. 
Extension Course in Vegetable Foods. For self-instructed classes in movable schools of agri- 
culture. By Anna Barrows. Washington, D. C: Government Printing Office, 1916, pp. 

78. Supt. of Documents. U. S. Department of Agriculture Bulletin No. 123. $0.10. 
Food for Young Children. By Caroline L. Hunt. Washington, D. C: Government Printing 

Office, 1916, pp. 20. Supt. of Documents. U. S. Department of Agriculture Farmers' 

Bulletin No. 717, free. 
Food Selection for Rational and Economical Living. By C. F. Langworthy. Garrison, N. Y.: 

Reprinted from Scientific Monthly, March, 1916, pp. 294-306. 
Institution Recipes. School of Household Science and Arts, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Sets of 105 cards. $1.00. 



270 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May 



Hou< the World is Fed. By W. J. Showalter. Washington, D. C: National Geographic Mag- 
azine, January, 1916, pp. 1-110. 

The Road to Trained Service in the Household. By Henrietta Roelofs. National Board of 
the Y. W. C. A., New York City, pp. 13. (Commission on Household Employment 
Bulletin, No. 2.) 

School Lunches. By Caroline L. Hunt and Mabel Ward. Washington, D. C: Government 
Printing OfBce, 1916, pp. 26. Supt. of Documents. U. S. Department of .Agriculture 
Farmers' Bulletin No. 712. 

SOME ARTICLES IN OUR MARCH EXCHANGES 



In addition to the scientific papers re- 
corded in our bibliography many of our 
readers may be interested in articles that 
appear from time to time in the less techni- 
cal magazines that are among our exchanges. 
We shall endeavor each month to call atten- 
tion to some of these and we shall be grateful 
if those who see articles of value to the 
teacher, the student or the housekeeper will 
kindly call them to the attention of the 
Journal. 

The Industrial Arts Magazine for March, 
1916, contains an article that should be of 
interest to the householder. Blistering, 
Cracking, Scaling and Non-Dr>'ing of Paint, 
Whose Fault? John W. Luthe, p. 118. 

The April number of the same magazine 
begins a series on Wood Finishing, J. M. 
Dorrans, p. 151. 

There is also a series of articles beginning 
in December, on Domestic Arts in the 
Grades, Ada Cause. 

Manual Training and Vocational Educa- 
tion for March, 1916, contains A Reproduc- 
tion of an Old Blue Coverlid, Lurene Sey- 
mour, p. 535; Reseating a Chair, L. Day 
Perry, p. 515; Manual Training and Do- 
mestic Science in the Rural Demonstration 
Schools of the Iowa State Teachers College, 
H. J. WhiUcrc, p. 545. 

The Outlook for March 22, 1916, contains 
an article on Refrigeration and .Artificial 
Ice, Theodore II. Price, p. 713. 



The Modern Hospital for March has two 
articles of equal interest to the housewife 
and the teacher giving the hospital experi- 
ence on the Use of Genuine Agate Ware 
Utensils, p. 227, and Glass Cooking Utensils, 
p. 228. 

Two articles embodying quite opposite 
points of view are found in the hidependent 
of March 20: the first. Why Girls Should Not 
be Taught to do Housework, Martha Bensley 
Bruere, p. 416; and the second, The Eflacient 
Housewife, Edward Earle Purinton, p. 421. 
One sometimes wonders whether one is most 
understood by one's enemies or one's friends. 

A series of articles in the Survey, February 
26-March 25, The Four Ages of Woman, 
John Martin takes issue with Feminism and 
deprecates other work for women than house- 
keeping and motherhood, with some reac- 
tionary statements in regard to women's 
wages. 

Ida Tarbell in the Woman's Home Com- 
panion for April, 1916, p. 14, pleads for train- 
ing the girl- for homcmaking and for the 
cooperation of school and home under the 
title of Give the Girl a Chance. 

School and Society for April 1, prints a 
paper by Alexis F. Lange, The Problem of 
the Professional Training for Women, p. 480, 
read before the San Francisco branch of the 
A. C. A. A summary of this will be given 
in a later issue. 



1916] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 271 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 
Contributions to the Bibliography are welcomed. Please send material to the Journal. 

Foods and Cookery 

On the Nature of the Sugars Found in the Tubers of Sweet Potatoes. K. Miyake, Jour. 
Biol. Chem., 21 (1915), no. 2, pp. 503-506. 

Molasses. \.^lcG\\\, Lab. Inla}id Rev. Dept. Canada Btil.,i\2 (1915), pp. 21. Analyti- 
cal data are given regarding 140 samples purchased in Canada as molasses. 

Contribution to the Knowledge of the Ripening of Meat. H. Kren, Wiener Tierdrztl. 
Monalsschr., 1 (1914), no. 12, pp. 585-589; abs. Expt. Sta. Rec, 33 (1915), p. 460. 

Jams. A. McGill, Lab. Inland Rev. Dept. Canada Bui., 309 (1915), pp. 33. Results of 
the e.\amination of 227 samples of jams purchased in Canada are reported. 

The Organic Phosphorus Compounds of Wheat-bran. C. J. Robinson and J. H. Mueller, 
Biochem. Bui., 4 (1915), no. 13, pp. 100-117. \ controversial article. 

The Influence of the Environment on the Milling and Baking Qualities of Wheat in India — 
III, The Experiments of 1911-12. A. Howard, H. M. Leake, and Gabrielle L. C. Howard, 
Mem. Dept. Agr. India, Bol. Ser. 6 (1914), no. 8, pp. 233-266, pis. 2. 

Baking Powders. A. McGill, Lab. Inland Rev. Dept. Canada Bui, 308 (1915), pp. 33. 
Analyses of 251 samples of baking powders purchased in Canada. 

The Chemistry of Rice-polishings. H. Fraser and A. T. Stanton, Lancet [London], 1915, 
I,no. 20, pp. 1021, 1022. 

Economical Electric Cooking. Competition of Electricity with Gas and Coal Requires 
Conservation of Heat Energy and Utilization of Economical Temperature. P. W. Gumaer, 
Engin. Mag., 49 (1915), no. 4, pp. 580-583, figs. 6. The author gives the ranges of tempera- 
ture at which the oven should be maintained for the most economical bakmg of bread and 
cakes, and the roasting of meats. 

Composition of the Grain, Flour, and Milling Offals of Four Varieties of Wheat. H. 
Hunter, Dept. Agr. and Tech. Inslru. Ireland Jour., 15 (1915), no. 3, pp. 550-562. 

Unfermented Grape Juice. A. McGill, Lab. Inland Rev. Dept. Canada Bui., 307 (1915), pp. 
19. Data regarding the inspection of 111 samples of unfermented grape juice collected in 
various parts of Canada. 

Banana Meal a Substitute for Flour. J. C. Monaghan, U. S. Dept. Com., Com. Rpts., no. 
129 (1915), p. 1019. 

Nutrition 

The Rational .Apportionment of the Dietary During the 24-hour Cycle. Bergonie, Rev. 
Sci. [Paris], 53 (1915), I, no. 9, pp. 138-145, figs. 4; abs. Expt. Sia. Rec, 33 (1915), p. 464. 
.\ summary and digest of data including a number of curves showing the dbtribution of the 
heat production during the 24-hour cycle. 

The Influence of Drinking Water on the Digestibility of Solid Substances. F. Grobbeb, 
Ztschr. Physiol. Chem., 89 (1914), no. 1-2, pp. 1-21, figs. 3; abs. Expt. Sta. Rec, 33 (1915), 
p. 462. 

Does Butter Fat Contain Nitrogen and Phosphorus? T. B. Osborne and .\. J. Wakeman, 
Jour. Biol. Chem., 21 (1915), no. 1, pp. 91-94. 

Studies on Tissues of Fasting Animals. S. Morgulis, P. E. Howe, and P. B. Hawk, Bid. 
Bui. Mar. Biol. Lab. Woods Hole, 28 (1915), no. 6, pp. 397-406, pi. 1. 



272 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

Some Metabolic Influences of Bathing in the Great Salt Lake. Helen I. and H. A. Mat- 
till, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 36 (1915), no. 4, pp. 488-500, tig. 1. 

Muscular Work and the Respiratory Quotient. S. Morgulis, Biochem. Bui., 3 (1914), 
no. 11-12, pp. 435-439. 

The Influence of Milk Feeding on Mortahty and Growth, and on the Character of the 
Intestinal Flora. L. F. Rettger, Jour. Expt. Med., 21 (1915), no. 4, pp. 365-388. 

The Metabolism of Organic and Inorganic Compounds of Phosphorus. E. B. Forbes, et 
al., Ohio. Sta. Tech. Bui., 6 (1914), pp. 80, pis. 13. This bulletin reports in detail the results 
of a series of animal feeding experiments to compare the nutritive value of representative 
phosphorus compounds, including phosphates, hypophosphites, nucleic acid, phytin, and 
glycerophosphates. 

The Influence of Protein Intake upon the Formation of Uric Acid. A. E. Taylor and W. 
C. Rose, Jour. Biol. Chcm., 18 (1914), no. 3, pp. 519, 520. 

The Digestibility of the Protein of Cereals, Legumes, and Potato Flour. O. Rammstedt, 
Phartn. Zentrdhalle, 56 (1915), nos. 1, pp. 1-7; 2, pp. 14-17; 3, pp. 22-25; ahs. Expt. Sta. 
Rec, 33 (1915), p. 361. 

The Influence of Certain Vegetable Fats on Growth. E. V. McCollum and Marguerite 
Davis, Jour. Biol. Chevt., 21 (1915), no. 1, pp. 179-182, pis. 9. 

Nutrition with Purified Food Substances. E. V. McCollum and Marguerite Davis, 
Jour. Biol. Chcm., 20 (1915), no. 4, pp. 641-658, figs. 9. 

Hygiene and Sanitaiion 

A Bacteriological Study of Retail Ice Cream. S. H. Ayrcs and \V. T. Johnson, Jr., U. S. 
Dept. Agr. Bui, 303 (1915), pp. 24, figs. 4. 

Bacterial Content of Desiccated Egg. L. S. Ross, Proc. Iowa Acad. Sci., 21 (1914), 
pp. 33^9. 

The Germicidal Effect of Lactic Acid in Milk. P. G. Heinemann, Jour. Infect. Diseases, 
16 (1915), no. 3, pp. 479-487. The author concludes that, although resistant strains may 
survive, the growth of pathogenic bacteria in milk is unlikely in the presence of 0.6 per cent 
of lactic acid. 

Viability of Bacillus Typhosus In Ice Cream. O. W. H. Mitchell, Jour. A mcr. Med. Assoc, 
65 (1915), no. 21, pp. 1795-1797. 

The Prevalence of Pellagra. — Its Possible Relation to the Rise in the Cost of Food. E. 
Sydenstricker, Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.], 30 (1915), no. 43, pp. 3132-3148. 

The Prevention of Pellagra. — A Test of Diet Among Institutional Inmates. J. Gold- 
berger, C. H. Waring, and D. G. WUlets, Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.]. 30 (1915), no. 43, 
pp. 3117-3131. 

Experimental Pellagra in the Human Subject Brought .\bout by a Restricted Ditt. J. 
Goldbcrger and G. A. Wheeler, Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.], 30 (1915), no. 46, pp. 3336-3339. 

Health District No. 1. Lucy G. Oppen, Forecast, 11 (1916), no. 3, pp. 160-165, figs. 5. 
.^n experiment being tried by the city of New York to bring the various branches of tlie 
Public Service closer to the people. 

Behind Scenes m the Laundry. P. S. Piatt, Forecast, 11 (1916) ,no. 2, pp. 86-91, figs. 5. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



Program of the Home Economics De- 
partment, General Federationof Women's 
Clubs, Thirteenth Biennial Convention, 
Friday Morning, May 26, Seventh Regiment 
Armory, Helen Louise Johnson, Chairman. 

Report, Miss Johnson, Chairman; Address, 
Hon. David R. Houston, Sec. of Agr.; Home 
Making as a Fine Art, Dr. George E. Vincent, 
Pres. Univ. of Minn. Friday Afternoon, 
Home Economics Conference. Greetings, 
Miss Georgie Bacon. 

Food, Mrs. Frederick F. Faville, Chair- 
man: Why We Need Uniform Food Laws, 
Dr. Carl L. Alsberg, Chief, Bur. of Chem.; 
Why We Need to Study Food Values, Miss 
Helen Atwater, Office of Home Econ., Dept. 
of Agr. 

Shelter, Mrs. Albion Fellows Bacon, Chair- 
man: How Women Can Help Solve the 
Housing Problem, Mr. Lawrence Veiller, 
Pres., National Housing Assn.; Home Eco- 
nomics and Shelter, Miss Mabfl Hyde Kitt- 
redge, Pres. Assn. of Practical Housekeeping 
Centers, New York. 

The Child, Mrs. Charles W. Greene, Vice- 
Chairman: The Child in the Home, Miss 
Sarah Louise Arnold, Dean, Simmons Col- 
lege; Education of Mothers as a Problem in 
Democracy, }iliss Julia Lathrop, Chief, 
Children's Bur. 

Clothing, Miss Pearl MacDonald, Chair- 
man: Clothes and the Woman, Mrs. Louis 
F. Post, Washington, D. C, and Mr. Frank 
A. Parsons, Pres. School of Fine Arts, New 
York. 

Saturday Evening, May 27, Hotel Astor, 
The Home Economics Exhibit consisting of 
the History of Costume Presented on Living 
Models, prepared under the direction of Miss 
Jane Fales, Teachers College. The exhibit 
will continue, an hour each day, through 
Wednesday. 

In connection with the exhibit, short talks 



ftill be given by Mrs. Percy V. Pennybacker, 
Pres., General Federation, and others, ending 
with a conference on Wednesday. 

Monday Afternoon, May 29, Hotel Astor, 
Miss Bertha .\L Terrill of the Univ. of Vt. 
presiding. 

Extension Work in Home Economics: The 
Smith-Lever Law and its Administration, 
Dr. A. C. True, States Relations Service; 
The County Agent and Her Work, Miss 
Mary E. Creswell, Home Demonstration 
Work, Washington, D. C; Work in Rural 
Clubs, Miss Martha Van Rensselaer, Pres. 
Amer. Home Econ. Assn., Cornell Univ., and 
others. 

Tuesday Afternoon, May 30, Home Eco- 
nomics Headquarters, Seventh Regiment 
Armory, Mrs. Joseph T. Gawler presiding: 
An open conference on Club Problems in 
Home Economics. 

National Conference of Charities and 
Correction. Educators will join with so- 
cial workers at the forty-third annual meet- 
ing of the National Conference of Chari- 
ties and Correction at Indianapolis, Indi.tna, 
May 10 to 17 in considering what both can 
do toward solving the big problem of giving 
children' the most effective education and 
training possible. 

Ground that is comparatively new for 
the conference will be covered by the section 
on children, of which Miss Julia C. Lathrop, 
Chief of the Federal Children's Bureau, is 
the chairman. 

A broad field of community problems will 
be covered by eight other sections of the 
conference. That on the family and the 
community will take up the coordination of 
civic effort in small conmiunities. In its 
general session the conference will consider 
conditions adverse to efficient public work 
under democratic government. 

273 



274 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May 



The Ellen Richards Research Prize. 

The Naples Table Association for Promoting 
Laboratory Research by Women announces 
the offer of an eighth prize of one thousand 
dollars for the best thesis written by a 
woman, on a scientific subject. This thesis 
must embody new observations and new con- 
clusions based on independent laboratory 
research in biological (including psychologi- 
cal), chemical or physical science. The 
theses offered must be in the hands of the 
chairman of the committee on the prize, 
Dr. Lilian Welsh, Goucher College, Balti- 
more, Md., before February 25, 1917. The 
title page of each manuscript must bear an 
assumed name; and the writer must send 
with her manuscript, a sealed envelope con- 
taining her application blank and super- 
scribed with her assumed name. 

In April, 1911, the prize was named the 
Ellen Richards Research Prize in recognition 
of the devoted service of Mrs. Richards as 
chairman of the committee on the prize 
since its appointment in 1900. 

Further information may be obtained from 
the chairman, Dr. Welsh. 

The Next Generation. The National 
Council of Education, after the discussion 
on "The New Ideal in Education — Better 
Parents of Better Children," at Detroit, 
created a "committee to study methods of 
promoting the ideal of racial well-being," of 
which Dr. Helen C. Putnam is chairman. 

This committee announces a fund, $1,000 
annually for four years, " to be used to help 
place popular ideals of responsibility for the 
race above commercial ideals and above in- 
dividualism." 

This fund is to be used for prizes to gradu- 
ating classes of 1917 in state normal institu- 
tions and in departments (or courses) o( 
education and of Home Economics in col- 
leges (including agricultural) and univer- 
sities, for the best codpcrativc study by a 
class of the following proposition: The 
supreme object of education should be to 
make the next generation better than living 
generations. A detailed statement of the 
conditions of the prizes may be found in the 



April Bulletin of the N. E. A., or may be 
secured from Dr. Pumam, Rhode Island 
Ave., Providence, R. I. 

Immediate notice should be sent by those 
who intend to enter the contest. 

Public Lectures on Nutrition. The 

Washington Academy of Sciences announced 
a series of illustrated lectures on nutrition, 
open to the public, to be given on Friday 
afternoons during April, 1916, in the audi- 
torium of the New National Museum. The 
lecturers are men distinguished for their con- 
tributions to the great advances recently 
made in the study of nutrition. 

The lecturers and their subjects are as fol- 
lows : 

April 7. Dr. Eugene F. DuBois, Medical 
Director Russell Sage Institute of Pathology, 
New York: The Basal Food Requirement of 
Man. 

April 14. Dr. Graham Lusk, Professor 
of Physiology, Cornell University Medical 
College: Nutrition and Food Economics. 

April 21. Dr. E. B. Forbes, Chief, De- 
partment of Nutrition, Ohio Agricultural 
Experiment Station: Investigations on the 
Mineral ^letabolism of .Animals. 

April 28. Dr. Cari Voegtlin, U. S. Public 
Health Service, Washington: The Relation 
of the Vitamines to Nutrition in Health and 
Disease. 

Mrs. Lillian Massey Treble. Home 
Economics in Canada owes much to the work 
of Mrs. Lillian Massey Treble whose life 
came to an end November 3, 191.S. Trustee 
of a large sum of money bequeathed by her 
father, she found her first work in tlie de- 
velopment of the Fred Victor Mission to 
which her father had given a valuable build- 
ing. That the ministries of this mission 
might better reach out and touch the home, 
the School for Deaconesses was founded. 
Later beginning in a small way with the 
establishment of a kitchen garden in the 
Mission, where the younger girls were taught 
the simplest rudiments of the great lore of 
housekeeping, was develo{)ed the Lillian 
Massey School of Domestic Science. In 



1916] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



275 



1902 the course of Household Science was 
inaugurated in the University of Toronto 
but the teaching was carried on in this school 
in the Fred \'ictor building. In 1904 Miss 
Massey made a formal olTer of a building 
to the University. This building is today 
one of the most imposing and most thor- 
oughly equipped buildings in the great 
University group, and Household Science is 
one of the special courses leading to the B..^. 
degree. The work is in charge of Miss Laird, 
and it has justified many times over Mrs. 
Treble's faith in its possibilities. 

A New Phase of Missionary Prepara- 
tion. It is not many years since the mis- 
sionary went to his work in other lands 
with no thought of any special prepara- 
tion in the knowledge of food and diet or of 
sanitation. 

It is interesting to know that the student 
Volunteers of Teachers College asked this last 
winter for a series of five lectures on nutri- 
tion. Mrs. Mary Swartz Rose, with the 
assistance of Miss McCormick and Miss 
Pope, is giving the course under the titles: 
(1) Food for health and efTiciency; (2) The 
diet of the missionary in the field; (3) Food 
for babies and children in the Orient; (4) 
The characteristics of native Oriental diets 
and ways of improving them; (5) Food in 
sickness. 

The University of Illinois. The 
Household Science Club and Omicron Nu 
observed Richards Day by an "open house" 
giving the play. Prince Caloric and Princess 
Pieta. The tangible results were a contribu- 
tion of fifty dollars to the Richards Memo- 
rial Fund and the recognition of the fact that 
the content of Home Economics has material 
for amusement as well as instruction. 

The Department gave a somewhat unus- 
ual short course, viz., one for bakers, Janu- 
ary 31 to March 4. Because the venture 
was more or less of an e.xperiment and the 
University Bake Shop is small, the numbers 
were limited, but they were a representative 



group of men, selected by the officers of the 
Master Bakers' .Association. The program 
was in charge of Prof. Isabel Bcvier, Head of 
the Dejjartmcnt of Household Science, and 
instruction was given by Dr. C. H. Bailey, 
Cereal Technologist of the University of 
Minnesota, Dr. F. L. Stevens, Professor of 
Plant Pathology of the University of Illinois, 
Miss Anna Williams and other members of 
the stafT of the Household Science Depart- 
ment. 

The following paragraph from the report 
of the State Leader in Home Economics Ex- 
tension, Miss Mamie Bunch, shows, in so 
far as statistics can, the results of the work 
of that Department. 

"During this year so far, this Depart- 
ment has conducted 73 weeks of demonstra- 
tion schools, serving 14,230 peojjle, and 172 
separate lectures and demonstrations, serv- 
ing 67 counties and 19,065 people, in addi- 
tion to the two weeks' School for Housekeep- 
ers here at the University, with its 425 rep- 
resentatives from 35 counties of Illinois and 
visitors from 7 states. The demonstration 
car has had 6,201 visitors and 4 weeks of 
demonstration schools have been given in 
connection with its service. All told, the 
E.xtension Department in Home Economics 
has served this year 39,921 people." 

Simmons College Summer School. 

The Summer Session of the School of House- 
hold Economics at Simmons College has 
been established permanently. The large 
enrollment of 1915 proved that it satisfies a 
real need. The school is in session this year 
from July 3 to .\ugust 11. The program in- 
cludes courses in Principles of Cookery, 
Menu Making and Meal Ser\'ice, Method of 
Teaching Cookcr>', Dietetics, Plain Sewing, 
Dressmaking, M illinery, Methods of Teaching 
Sewing, Costume Design, Elementary In- 
organic Chemistry, Elementary Organic 
Chemistry, Food -Analysis, Bacteriology, and 
Public Health Problems. In addition to 
members of the regular faculty the services 
of Mrs. Jessamine Chapman Williams of 



276 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May 



the University of Arizona, Mrs. Jane S. 
McKimmon of the Extension Service of 
North Carolina, and Miss Celestinc Schmit 
of the University of Wisconsin have been 
secured. Among the special lectures open to 
students of the school are a group of lectures 
by Miss Winifred Gibbs of the Association 
for Improving the Condition of the Poor, 
New York City, and a group by Miss Sarah 
G. Flint, Assistant in Charge of Textiles, 
Boston Museum of Fine Arts. 

The University of Texas. Home Eco- 
nomics week was observed at the University 
of Texas in February, under the direction of 
the School of Domestic Economy and the 
Home Welfare Division of the Department 
of E.xtension. The object of the conference 
as stated by !Miss Gearing, was "to stress 
the relation between the home and the 
community." The program, with the aid of 
speakers from New York, Chicago and Eos- 
ton, carried out this purpose in an unusual 
way. Mrs. W. I. Thomas, of Chicago, 
spoke on the Social Needs of the Woman in 
Industry, the Child in the Community, and 
on Madam, Who Keeps Your House? Mr. 
Ford, a landscape architect from New York, 
included under his general subject of Town 
Planning, the Citizens Share in Planning the 
Town, and Planning the Town for Homes, 
while Dr. James, of the University of Te.xas, 
discussed Woman's I^art in City Govern- 
ment. Public Health and the Food Supply, 
the Purity of the Water Supply, and other 
topics relating to public health, were in- 
cluded. Mrs. Ruth Carson, of Boston, 
gave 6ve lectures on dress. Among her sub- 
jects were The Personality of Clothes, and 
Fashion in the Light of Art. The exhibit 
that accompanied the conference dealt with 
some of the fundamental sanitary, social and 
economic problems of the home and the 
municipality, and was directly related to 
the lectures. There were four main divi- 
sions of the exhibit. The first consisted of 
sanitary charts; the next dealt with the eco- 
nomics of the home; the third represented 
civic art, and the fourth recreational aspects 
of city life. 



Oregon State Agricultural College. 
Miss Ravenhill, who Ic.iured at the college 
during the winter Short Course and is to re- 
turn for three weeks during the summer school 
sends the following report: The Home 
Makers' Conference at the Oregon State 
Agricultural College, early in January, held 
twelve sessions, four hours each. The 
weather was mostly atrocious; there were 
no street cars at Corvallis; grippe had run 
riot there as elsewhere; but except from eight 
to nine in the morning the hall was packed, 
hour by hour, day by day. The lecturers 
sometimes had hard work to escape from 
crowds of eager questioners, anxious for 
fuller details on various points. Extra ses- 
sions were held to meet the demand. 

The program included cookery demonstra- 
tions by that mistress of the art, Miss Anna 
Barrows, educational in method, with no 
pandering to tasting and touching. The 
audienco had to think and think hard, too. 
Admirable lectures on the bacteriological as- 
pects of colds, of children's diseases, and of 
protection of water and foods were given 
by college professors. There was practical 
instruction on vegetable and flower garden- 
ing; on the planning of houses; on the difTi- 
culties of dressmaking; on art in the home; 
while a most lucid exposition was given of 
household accounts and budgets. 

There was a series of lectures on what 
might be termed the Science of Human Life: 
the rhythms which influence and the condi- 
tions which make for elViciency were indi- 
cated; the sanitary possibilities in rural 
homes and the recreational needs of the 
young folks were dealt with in practical 
detail; problems as to relative influence of 
nature and nurture were clearly presented; 
habit formation in early life and what to 
learn from the intelligent observation of 
children were discussed. In each case the 
best methods of applying in home or com- 
munity life the results of some acquaintance 
with the principles which underlie them were 
laid down and emphasized. 

Such a comprehensive program and the 
appreciation of its packed audiences give 
evidence of the real desire of our home- 



1916] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



277 



makers for information on a wide range of 
subjects, information — not frothy generali- 
zations, but actual material from which to 
build improved methods. 

The University of Kansas. .\t the third 
"Merchant Short Course" given under the 
auspices of the University Extension Divi- 
sion at Lawrence, I'ebruary 7-11, an audi- 
ence varying from 100 to 250 men listened 
appreciatively to the daily talks given by 
the Home Economics Department. Miss 
Sprague, the head of the Department spoke 
of the "Merchant and the Housewife;" 
Miss Downey upon "Food Factors in the 
High Cost of Living;" and Miss .Mien "Upon 
Practical Tests for Textile Fabrics." 

In March the following announcement was 
made by the department: 

On Friday, March 17, during the annual conference 
of Kansas High Schools and Academies, the Home 
Economics Department of the University of Kansas 
will illustrate the various ph.ises of its work: 
I. Demonstrations showing the results of research 
work on the factors which affect the economic 
&nd nutritive value of foods: The technique of 
pastr)- making, MLss Parnell;.Mcthodsof cook- 
ing in deep fat, Miss Kecler; The relative effi- 
ciency of various methods of making coffee, 
Miss Woodruff; Precise methods in preparing 
frostings, Miss Dyche. 
H. Exhibits showing the scientific principles under- 
lying the selection and preparation of food, 
clothing and shelter. 
III. Results of research work. 

A reception will l>e held in the Women's Corner, 
Fraser Hall, from 4.30 to 6.00 p.m. You are cordially 
invited to attend. 

The result of this was a surprise both to 
the public and the department. The ex- 
hibit consisted of two large rooms full of 
charts with in many cases illustrative mate- 
rial to go with them. The demonstrations 
were "quite finished bits of work," the lec- 
ture room was filled to overflowing with 150 
people, while as many more were turned 
away. Five hundred attended the recep- 
tion. Even a "strictly academic faculty" 
voiced its approval and incidentally learned 
something of what Home Economics means. 

A Social Science School. A new uni- 
versity department to be known as the School 



of Applied Social Sciences will be opened in 
September at Western Reser\-e University. 

Dr. J. E. Cutler, head of the department 
of sociology in Western Reserve University, 
who, it will be remembered, gave an address 
on Community Housekeeping at the Cleve- 
land meeting of the .American Home Eco- 
nomics .Association, has been appointed dean 
of the school. 

The work of the school for the first year 
has been outlined under four general divi- 
sions or fields of service: Family welfare and 
social service, health administration, play 
and recreation, municipal administration 
and public service. 

The Home Economics Association of 
Philadelphia. During the winter this As- 
sociation has been giving a resum6 of the 
work in Domestic Science and Arts through- 
out the United States, by means of a ques- 
tionnaire on the topics Domestic Science, 
Domestic Arts, School Feeding, Institutional 
Feeding, and Occupations. 

The members visiting the various cities 
of the West, Middle West, North East and 
East, during the year have gathered their 
data. 

At the March meeting. Miss Carrie A. 
Lyford, Specialist in Home Economics, U. S. 
Bureau of Education, gave to each one in 
the audience a rare vision of broader oppor- 
tunity in every branch of Home Economics. 

Brief Notes. — Mrs. Calvin of the Bureau 
of Education will lecture for three weeks 
during the summer school at the University 
of California. The subject of these lectures 
will be Household Administration. 

At the March meeting of the Home 
Economics Association of Greater New York 
the subject of Laces of the Old Masters was 
discussed by Miss Frances Morris, Curator 
of Laces at the Metropolitan Museum of 
Art. 

The New England Home Economics As- 
sociation held a conference on March 4, at 
the Boston Public Library. Mrs. Woolman 



278 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May 



gave a report from the meeting of the Na- 
tional Association for the Promotion of In- 
dustrial Education, and there was an infor- 
mal discussion on School Credits for Home 
Work. 

The Washington Home Economics As- 
sociation took a trip through the yeast fac- 
tory at Langdon, Md., on Saturday, March 
25. 

At the convention of the Eastern Arts 
Association in Springfield, Mass., April 20- 
22, the Household Arts Section, Miss Mabel 
Lutis, presiding, discussed the following top- 
ics: Putting a Problem as The Basis for The 
Course of Study — The Plan and The Single 
Lesson, Professor Cora M. Winchell, Teach- 
ers College, Columbia University; Rural 
Problems of Household Arts Education, Miss 
Laura Comstock, Massachusetts Agricul- 
tural College, Amherst. 

Miss Eva Robinson of the University of 
South Dakota writes: 

This last month we have been carrying 
out the following plan. One class for term 
papers handed in menus worked out on the 
basis of different prices. These have been 
published in papers throughout the state and 
the letters that have come in regard to them 
show how much women are awakening to all 
that is done toward better housekeeping. 

The spring quarter at George Peabody 
College for Teachers closes June 12. The 
summer quarter begins June 15 and closes 
August 26. This quarterly arrangement 
makes it possible for a teacher by taking 
one or two quarters' work at a time to 
complete the work for a degree on such 
annual schedules. 

The President of the Panama-Pacific Ex- 
position writes to the Secrctar)* of the Ameri- 
can Home Economics Association: 

"I take this opportunity of expressing the 
appreciation of the Exj)Osition management 
to the officers and members of your organi- 
zation for the part they liad in making the 



Exposition such an unqualified success. We 
consider the congress program one of the 
chief factors in producing that very grati- 
fying result." 

Miss McCheyne writes that the demon- 
stration train of the Salt Lake Route will 
have a car especially devoted to Home Eco- 
nomics, the first in many years. The ex- 
hibits will be along the line of child welfare, 
home decoration, and kitchen furnishings. 
Lectures upon these various subjects will be 
delivered. 

Dr. Donald B. Armstrong, director of the 
department of social welfare of the .Associa- 
tion for Improving the Condition of the Poor 
in New York, and Mrs. Armstrong, formerly 
a sanitary inspector of factories in the state 
of New York, have been awarded the prize 
of $1000 offered by the Metropolitan Life 
Insurance Company for the best pamphlet 
on social hygiene for boys and girls. 

Pro.'. Robert H. Richards writes: I thank 
you very much for sending me a notice of 
the meeting of the American Home Eco- 
nomics Association. I like to be kept in 
touch with what is going on, although I 
shall be imable probably to attend the meet- 
ings on account of the many other calls 
upon my time. My interest naturally is 
due to the great interest that Mrs. Ellen H. 
Richards took in the subject, as well as on 
account of the importance of the subject 
itself. 

A bill to discontinue the Fahrenheit ther- 
mometer scale has been introduced into the 
House of Representatives by .Mbert John- 
son, 3d district, Washington. 

Mr. Smoot has introduced a bill (S, 5273) 
"to provide for an increased annual appro- 
priation for agricultural experiment sta- 
tions, to be used in researches and experi- 
ments in home economics, and regulating 
the expenditure thereof," as noted in the 
Congressional Record, for March 25, 1916, 
p. 5534. 



V(.L. \ III. \u. JINK. \mu 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those in teres ted in Ilomemakinfi. Institution Management, 
and Kducational \\ork in Home Kconomics 

Mrs Alicf P .Vortos. Klit.ir K^tirah E Baldwin. .I^jii,ii:-»i< Eiilnr 

F.liloriat Biar i 
Mrs. .Mvkv M. Abkl Avw Rxrruws c. F. Langwobthv Isabel Ely Lord 

ExOficin .W/'wA/Ti— Martha Van Rcnsseij^er, F'n-«irlfnt .\mcrican Home Economics .\ssociation 
Sarab Lol'isf Ar.sold, Churm.m Institution Ecotuimics Section 
Ri'TH Whe^ lkr Chairman Science Section 
Gertrude McCbcvne. Chairman Extension E<lucation Section 

( W/<jA>»f<j/(ir> — The Officers. .Member* of the Council, and Advisers 



CONTENTS 

Thk Ti-.xrHiR AND CoMMCNiTY Wkll-Bkinc. Gro. II. Vott Tung'-ln 279 

t'osTCMK .XpPRKriATioN M iiry Hciilciiih Broii'ti and Lucy D. Taylor 2?,?. 

\ vDNTKST AM) Tui; Talks IT Trti.D \nna Merritt East 29\ 

A HoMK Economics Kxhibit Alice McCoue 296 

Till Tkachinc. of Tkxtii.ks in Ki.kmkntary Scikiois . . Kiilliarim French Sleiger 297 

\PcNSIVK ReSTACRAVTS IN ClIR'STIANA AND IN X'iKNW. \NI) \ ShOP-C'.IRI.S' RkSTACRANT IN 

CoPKNHAf.KN Compiled hy Ildcn \V. Alwatcr 301 

TiiK FcNDAMKNTAi. Basis OK N't TRirioN .^04 

pASTECRizAiioN AS A I'cui.ic HhAi.TH Me\svr:-: C . E. H Utiard MM 

For thk Homemaker 31.^ 

Food Selection for Rational and EcoNo.\ncAL Living . . . C. /•". Langnorlhy 31.^ 

The Need of Juvenh-e Plac:;ment Departments 318 

Clothes and the Body Charlollr Gihbs Baker 320 

.\n Ickless Refrigerator 323 

Editorial 325 

Comment ant) Discussion S27 

The Qcestion Box 329 

Books and Literatcre 331 

BiRMOr.RAPHY of HoME ECONOMICS 335 

News from the Field vU 



The Journal oi Home Economics is pulilisheH monthly by thr ^me^can Home Economics Association. 
$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN |2.25. .SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on .New York. Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable 
to the American Home Economics .Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk 

CH.ANGE IN .ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which the 
change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to thr New .Address. 

AMKKIC.W HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION Station N, Baltimore, Md. 

Entered as second chiss mattei at the Baltimore Post Office 




u 




IluMi !•■.( osuMii s F'.ximiiT, Montana Statk Cou-kok. (St-c page 2^6.) 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 



Vol. VIII JUNE. 1916 X<,. o 

THE TEACHER AND COMMUNITY WELL-BEING* 

GEO, H. VON TUNGELN 

Associate Professor of Applied Sociology, lo-wa Slate College 

When I accepted your kind invitation to speak before you, it was 
understood not only that I should be permitted to digress somewhat 
in what I have to say from this specialized subject and these special 
problems that you have been presenting, but that I would be expected to 
do so, and, if possible bring you a few thoughts, or suggestions perhaps, 
which will help you to realize your cherished ambition to carry your in- 
fluence into the communities you serve, along other lines as well as 
through your specialized line, the teaching of Home Economics. In 
your specialized line of work you are concerned primarily with teach- 
ing persons how to get a living, or how to spend an income intelligently 
and economically, a thing that is quite as difficult today as to provide an 
income. You are, therefore, preparing persons to meet one of the two 
great problems that all must meet somehow, some way, the problem of 
getting a living. What I shall have to say will have to do more directly 
with the part you may also have in helping persons meet the other 
great problem of life that all must meet, that of living with and among 
our felIo^\'men. These two problems cannot be divorced from each 
other for each of us must meet both. 

We are li\ang in an age of the most rapid progress and advancement 
of civilization that histor>' has ever recorded. Only as we look back 
over a few pages of histor>' do we come to understand the speed of our 
age. There we find such facts as these to remind us of this truth. 
Queen Elizabeth never had a watch; Napoleon went post-haste from 

' .\n address delivered before the Home Economics Division of the Iowa Teachers' .Asso- 
ciation at Des Moines, November 4, 1915. 

279 



280 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [junC 

Waterloo to Paris in the same way as did Constantinc 1000 years be- 
fore; Shakespeare never read a newspaper; Cromwell never saw a 
photograph; Washington never saw a steamboat; Lincoln never saw 
an electric street-railway or an automobile; President Garfield was 
the first president to have a telephone in the White House, though 
now the United States with 6 per cent of the world's population has 
64 per cent of the world's telephones. 

Then we are also told, by an authority, that in 1840 only seven gain- 
ful occupations were open to women in the United States, while the 
1910 census lists 386 occupations open to women. There we may also 
find it stated that in 1870 our national wealth was put at $7,000,000,000 
while it is now placed at over $140,000,000,000 and while we had 9021 
miles of railroads in 1850 we now have over 258,000 miles. We are 
also told, by the United States Bureau of Education, that in 1914 
22,000,000 persons were enrolled in educational institutions in the 
United States, and tliat the enrollment in public schools for that year 
exceeded the enrollment of the year before by 84,000 persons. To in- 
struct this great army of young America required 700,000 teachers, 
566,000 of whom were teachers in our public schools, and the cost of 
education for the year was $750,000,000. This seems a great sum, 
but it was less than half the value of our corn crop for that year and 
less, by almost one-seventh, than the value of the exports for a year 
from our New York harbor. 

Of these things we are justly proud, for they help us especially in 
meeting the first of the two great problems that each of us must meet, 
that of getting a living. These things have come to the race largely 
in times of peace and through the exercise of reflective intelligence 
and honest industry. But with these harvests of peace are also to be 
noted the horrors of peace that are not necessary parts but attachments 
or contemporaries of them. These, like the others, are also the prod- 
ucts of men. They are here because man is here. They are not the 
cause of his being here but the results of his being here. In this, then, 
lies the first bright prospect for their possible removal; they are not 
necessary to the existence of the good things, or the harvests of peace, 
and since man has created them or is the cause of their presence with 
us he is also capable of being the cause of their removal, through united 
effort. It is individuals that comprise society. It is also the individual 
that brings to .society its problems, therefore, society, through the united 
effort of the individuals that comprise it, can meet its problems. 



1916] THE TEACHER AND COMMUNITY WELL-BEING 281 

A few of the many greater horrors of peace need but be mentioned 
in order to recall to our minds many on a smaller scale, but nevertheless 
real, that we meet every day in our own communities if we look for them. 
Some of these horrors of peace are so appalling that attempts to measure 
them in figures mean little to us because the figures are too large for 
our minds fully to grasp. Here are a few examples. Our liquor bill 
for 1913 was something over $20 per capita or over $2,000,000,000. 
The industry represented a capital invested of over $775,000,000 and 
employed less than 100,000 employees, while that same capital invested 
in tlie lumber business would have employed 400,000 employees. Our 
tobacco bill for that year measures a half billion, or as much as it cost 
to run our public schools that year, or enough to run the Iowa State 
College, on its present basis, for 400 years. We spend twice as much 
annually for chewing gum as we do for text books for the children 
in our public schools, the figures being $25,000,000 and $12,000,000, 
respectively. 

In 1910 only a small fractional part over 50 per cent of all the children 
in our land 16 years of age were attending school. That same year 
there were 5,000,000 illiterate adults in our country, Iowa alone that 
year having almost 30,000 white persons well over sLx years of age who 
could neither read nor write, and in that same year there were 257 school 
districts in the state trying to conduct a school with 5 or fewer pupils 
enrolled in each. Our Federal Children's Bureau tells us that we have 
an annual infant mortality of 300,000. Only a year ago we were told 
that "the procession of working children in the United States would 
take five years to pass a given point if the children appeared at the rate 
of one a minute day and night." 

An investigation, a few years ago, showed that in the great metropolis 
of the Central West there were spent over $8,000,000 annually for the 
sale of women's virtue and men's manhood. What goes on in yonder 
city is going on every day in your community and mine, probably even 
on a greater scale in proportion to population, only not so highly paid 
in dollars and cents, perhaps. Figures also tell us that if our present 
rate of insanity continues our race will all be insane in a few centuries. 

So one might go on almost indefinitely piling up figures of horrors 
of peace, and almost without exception, find in the respective communi- 
ties of every one anywhere recruits who belong to one, or possibly 
several, of these vast armies. These are problems that challenge the 
best there is in each of us. A fight against them is a fight for the preser- 
vation of our race. 



282 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [june 

By far the most effective, the most interesting, and the most honor- 
able fight that can be put into operation against them is to out-rival 
them with things that produce opposite results. "Things grow on what 
they feed upon." If, therefore, we can keep the minds of both our 
young people and our older people constantly engaged in thinking of 
things that are wholesome, and tlieir hands busied with doing things 
that are energizing rather than enervating and debauching, then these 
monsters that produce the horrors of peace shall surely die. They will 
die wdthout the other forces ever coming into hostile opposition to them 
or into open combat with them. They will be defeated without first 
having learned that an enemy is approaching, without time for better 
preparation to make a last stand. 

In getting into the fight the most important thing to be kept in mind 
is that we do not need to go to some large and distant city or some 
backwoods nook to get into the fray. Each of us can start right in 
the community of which we are a part, or in which we live. This is 
the most important thing, for when once we can wake up and realize 
that there is work enough for all right aro'md our own doors then we 
shall have struck the demons that wrought such havoc among us the 
most decisive blow that has ever been dealt them. These demons that 
are the causes of the horrors of peace are quite \\dlling to operate in our 
own communities. They are quite as content to come into your home 
and mine to snatch our boy or girl or brother and sister for one of their 
recruits as to get them in some distant locality, And while you and 
I are deploring the fact that we are not away off somewhere where there 
would be an opportunity for us to get into the fight against these mon- 
sters, they get in their most deadly work and reap their richest harvest 
right in our own communities or even in our own families, because no 
one is even suspecting them of being present there. 

We must have faith in our community, our friends, our relatives, 
our children, but we must not have a faith in them that leaves ♦^^hem 
no protection. We must have faith enough in them to work for them 
and be our best for them if we are to have any considerable part in 
lessening human woe and increasing human happiness. 

In preparing our boys and girls to meet these great issues, all of which 
are to be faced primarily in meeting that second great problem Uiat all 
must face, the problem of living with and among their fellowmen, our 
public schools have not played the r61e they might have performed. 

In our industrial life there have been throe rather marked changes. 



1916] THE TEACHER AND COMMUNITY WELL-BEING 283 

First, we have the age of undifferentiated employments. This was 
the age of the early hunter and agriculturist when men produced all 
they themselves consumed. The second age is that of differentiated 
employinents. Here the individual made the whole of one product, 
such as shoes, for example, but made no clothes or did no farming. The 
third, and present age, is that of the division of labor within differentiated 
emploj-ments. Here the one man no longer makes the entire shoe 
but only a part of it, possibly only the tacking on of the heel, and a 
few hundred colleagues make other and different parts of the shoe; al- 
together tliey make shoes. This specialization of work has made men 
far more dependent upon one another. This interdependence has been 
increased many fold with each change just noted, and many fold more 
with the coming of each new generation, through the expansion of the 
human wants and needs of these rising generations. We want and 
actually need, in our day, more things than did our great grandparents. 

The net result of all this is that the man or woman of us who does 
nothing but tack heels on shoes is, of necessity, about as much inter- 
ested in the welfare of those men or women of us who make the clothes 
he wears or the house he Hves in, or teach his children, as he is in the 
man who tacks heels on shoes. So wliile we specialize or narrow down 
our life work, we,of necessity, generalize or broaden out our life interests. 
So we may truly say that while we are specializing man as a workman 
in society, we are generalizing him as a citizen of society. To be con- 
sistent, therefore, we should either train him for both or for neither. 

So far, the regular work of our schools has been devoted almost en- 
tirely to the preparation of our boys and girls to meet only the one of 
the two great issues they must face in life. All the time has been de- 
voted to teaching them how to get a living, and the still larger prob- 
lem of preparing them to live with and among their fellowmen has 
been left almost wholly to chance. We have taught them how to 
get and prepare food, clothing, and shelter, but have left the greater 
problem of social adjustment in the home and society untouched. We 
teach the girl how to cook for a man and children and how to manage 
a household, and then think she is qualified to become one member in 
the partnership that has set for its goal of achievement the develop- 
ment of a home and family. We have been taking about all of the 
boy's time to teach him how to finance a household, and thus think we 
have qualified him to become the other member of this partnership. 

The mere ability on the part of one member of such a partnership 



284 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [jime 

to finance a household, and the mere ability on the part of the other 
member to manage a household economically, does not necessarily 
mean that a happy home will be realized as a joint product from a 
joint exercise of these two abilities. These two quaUfications are some 
of tlie means to that end. As essentials to this end there is yet another 
set of means that may be briefly summed up in this way : In this partner- 
ship as in all most successful partnerships no one partner may justly 
set up for himself the claim that the firm is to be run absolutely according 
to his own idea or notion, quite irrespective of how the other member 
of the firm thinks it might well be done. A partnership involves more 
than one person. Legally a partnership is not possible unless more 
than one person is concerned, nor is it justly possible religiously, ethi- 
cally, or politically with but one person concerned. To the highest 
success of such a partnership, therefore, there is need of an abiUty and 
a willingness on the part of each partner to sympathize with, recognize, 
and, at least sometimes, accept tlie thoughts and feelings of the other 
member or members involved, in a spirit that neither mars his happiness 
nor theirs. 

Just how dearly we pay for our lack of development along this group 
of means to an end of happy homes, we see in our divorce statistics 
which run now annually a little more than one divorce to each twelve 
marriages, and in the fact that almost one-half of these are secured 
before the end of the fifth year of marriage. This fact in itself indicates 
that many persons are divorced because they have not learned to exer- 
cise their group of means. They have failed, in other words, to achieve 
their goal. The home that they have made would not be recognized 
when measured by the definition given by the little boy, who, when 
asked to define home, replied: "Home is the place where mother is." 

Now the only way to learn to sj-mpathize with, recognize, and some- 
times accept the opinions and feelings of others, not only essential to 
the building of hapj)y homes but to living happily and successfully with 
and among our fellowmen, is to come in contact witli and learn what 
these views and feelings or sentiments are. And here it is especially 
where our greatest opportunities as teachers lie, not only in getting to- 
gether the people, old and young, of our respective communities for 
the puq)ose of healthful recreation, amusement and sociability, but in 
helping them to become broadminded, levelheaded, with constructive 
tolerance, and with interchange of ideas. In this way we may best cx]>ect 
to lay the basis fur settling some of the great problems that our respective 



[1916 TIIE TEACHER AND COMMUNITY WELL-BEING 285 

communities face, not by brawn but by brain, not by destruction but 
by discussion, not by contamination but by coherence. 

No more appropriate place to hold such gatlierings or continuation 
schools, designed to train and prepare for more efficient citizenship and 
growth in human well-being, could be found than our school buildings. 
The school-house is the one piece of common proj)erty of all and there- 
fore the natural club-house of all. Here the teacher is also naturally 
recognized as the rightful leader, and put at once in a position to lead 
and teach jiarents as well as children and to profit by the teaching they 
can give her in thus meeting on a common level. In the same way 
parents will teach each other and teach their children as well as be taught 
by them at such community gatherings. As teachers you owe it, there- 
fore, to the communities you serve and to yourself to foster and extend 
the movement that was set on foot only a few years ago, known as the 
social center movement, to open up school buildings and grounds, at 
other than school hours, to all the people of the community for citizen- 
ship training, or for the better preparing to live with and among each 
other. 

On a smaller scale you can be instrumental in the organization and 
pushing of smaller groups into societies, clubs, or circles. These will 
be more limited in their range of acti\dties but not less important in 
the things they do in their more restricted fields. For larger community 
undertakings these can be successfully federated for united action. I 
will take your time to enumerate only a few of many that could be men- 
tioned. Others will be suggested to you by conditions in your respec- 
tive communities. Some one or two of these may be just what you 
could set into operation in your community with success. You can 
not do them all; that would be attempting too much. 

First, and of no little importance is The Parent-Teachers' Association. 
In case there is none in your community set about to organize one. 
Appeal to the parents to give such organization their support on the 
basis that since they themselves live in the interest of their children 
and you live because of their children that you and they, being inter- 
ested in the same thing, should be interested in each other and each 
other's problems. 

Second, organize classes or clubs to take in the older girls who are 
not in school and the young married women. A part of the work done 
in such classes or clubs might well be Home Economics work which will 
help them to be better able to make their own living or to be better 



286 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

homemakers, but let some of the activities aim especially at giving 
these people a broader and saner out-look upon life, and something 
that will help them to bear up more cheerfully under their regular daily 
routine, thus brightening both their own lives and the hves of those 
that must live and work with them. 

Third, in the spring of the year get the City Council, Commercial 
Club, and Women's Club behind the movement to let the school boys 
and girls organize into teams to rid the city of its winter's accumu- 
lated waste. Get some of these organizations to finance the prepara- 
tion of an evening banquet. To add a little extra interest to it let 
the various teams compete on the basis of doing the best piece of 
work or completing first. Let the honor team sit at the head of the 
table, with girls who made the highest grades in the year's work as 
the hostesses. This will add greatly to the interest of the work to be 
done. 

Fourth, try to get supervised play organized for the summer. Here 
you have the assistance of the provision made by the Thirty-sixth Gen- 
eral Assembly, which empowers cities or school boards to pro\ide super- 
vised playgrounds. 

Fifth, encourage vacant lot cultivation. Boys' and Girls' Clubs, 
contests of every kind that make for clean boyhood and girlhood, and 
later manhood and womanhood. 

Children as well as grown-ups like to feel that they have really done 
something and that it has been recognized; for this reason put these 
things on a constructive contest basis; get the business men and other 
organizations to offer prizes, and award the highest honor to the highest 
and greatest accomplishment. Recognize the innate fact in human 
nature that for the normal indixidual, whether child or adult, tlie ideal 
of life includes something to be and something to do. Also recognize 
the fact that the purpose of fife is to be happy. Make it easy for the 
children to lead themselves into being something, doing sometJung 
and being happy, the stepping stones to honorable citizenship and the 
highest well-bemg. 

For the benefit of those who are trying or who expect to try some- 
thing along this line permit me to call your attention to a few things 
to be remembered which may help some of you not to give up in despair. 

1. There are three steps which lead to the final level of achievement 
in this line of work as in many other lines of work. These three steps 
are -talk, sentiment, and action. Between the first and second steps 



1916] THE TEACHER AND COMMUNITY WELL-BEING 287 

there will always be much talk that falls upon ears that hear not, and 
as a consequence we have here a great horizontal leakage from the 
ranks. Between the second and third steps there will always flow a 
very swift current of the "I think the thing is all right but I will let the 
other fellow push it," which will result in the second great horizontal 
leakage. If, therefore, you are to get some action you must expect 
to have first invested large amounts of talk in order to create enough 
sentiment so that ample allowance may also be made for the second 
great leakage, that is certain to occur. There is no better place to 
turn loose the talk that is to manufacture this sentiment than at the 
social center and your various gatherings. 

2. You must also be prepared to face tlic fact that novelty will attract 
the curious as well as the interested. Start something new and many 
will come only to see and fewer, perhaps, to help. Those who come 
merely to see may not put in their appearance at the second meeting. 
Here remember that the success of anything is always to be determined 
by taking into consideration both its characteristics, quantity and 
quality. Twelve persons who have come to help are worth many more 
than twelve times twelve who have come merely to see. Few machines 
do their best work until the paint is worn off of at least some of the parts. 

Finally, when you think that you have taken all things into considera- 
tion you will probably still have some skidding on the road to success, 
but as the servant is worthy of his hire, so here, the world offers you as 
pay, "honor, position, fame, a useful life and a deathless name," things 
highly prized but never awarded before they are earned. 



288 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

COSTUME APPRECIATION 

MARY HENLEIGH BROWN AND LUCY D. TAYLOR 

To make simple, genuine, aesthetic pleasure a coveted possibility 
to the vast number of people who, because they have neither desire 
nor power to do creative work, believe that tliey are not concerned 
with art, is of the utmost importance. On the discrimination and 
taste of the common people hang, not only added sources of individual 
happiness, but also the quality and vitality of our national art. The 
art tliat is rooted in common things, that is an expression of the thoughts, 
feelings, and desires of common life, is the art that lives, is the red blood 
art that finds a response in succeeding generations. 

Comparatively few people will make the designs that we use in our 
every day surroundings; few have the t>pe of imagination and the in- 
clination to devote themselves to the rigorous training required to make 
such creation possible. But the lack of this creative impulse does not 
in any sense mean a lack of aesthetic interest. There are infinite pos- 
sibilities for pleasure for those who like to surround themselves with 
beauty, even though they never touch pencil or brush to make a design. 
The liking, the sensitiveness to impression, may be strong; fostering and 
cultivating may bring it to the point of culture. 

If the early crude interest in color and ornament is encouraged, 
and youth is taught to use them discreetly without being forced to 
undesired production, the unfortunate condition of self consciousness 
which expresses itself with more or less hypocrisy in the statement, 
"I don't know anything about art, but I know what I like," may be 
avoided and for it substituted an honest attitude of frank enjoyment 
which fits the training and opportunities. Better honestly to like the 
gaudy car poster which does tell its story and is a good advertisement, 
to have a real opinion about it, than to be embarrassed by what some- 
one else will think of your opinion. The honest liking for bad desi^ni is 
a basis on which later rclinemcnt may be built, for it is an honestly felt 
reaction. The hypocritical attitude recognizes no basis of genuine 
feeling and leads nowhere. False standards lead to insincerity instead 
of to wholesome reactions. 

Art education has two perfectly distinct functions. One is to train 
creators of beauty, the other is to train appreciators and users of beau- 
tiful products. In our schools, we are concerned primarily with the edu- 
cation of the appreciators, for the training of the creators is the train- 



1916] COSTUME APPRECIATION 289 

ing of si)ecialists and naturally fcjllows the former work; it is carried 
further, intensified, and gi\'cn mature thought iind direction. 

This field of appreciation of beauty in common tilings is one of ab- 
sorbing interest. Practical, sensible direction in selection of furni- 
ture and wall hangings, of costume and its ornamentation provide 
problems of unbelievable vitality and interest. The users of beauty 
need practical training in color and design that will give them power to 
select the color and pattern of the paper for a speical room, to choose 
the draj)ery that will soften the window frame without cutting off too 
much light or destroying the structural effect of the casing, and to pro- 
vide the color accent that will best serve to make a unit of the whole 
interior. They need training that will help them in choosing furniture 
that is beautiful as well as strong and comfortable, and in arranging such 
accessories as lamps and bric-a-brac with an understanding of the need 
of unity and repose. 

Such work can only be successful when the teaching methods are 
changed from those that fit the maker of designs to those that fit the 
selector of designs. Studio metJiods of teaching have no place in this 
selective process. Real materials must be seen and handled. Color 
schemes for rooms will have meaning only when the actual materials are 
used. To discuss color schemes verbally, supply the class with dia- 
grams of rooms, and have these colored with water colors is not sufficient. 
Too much attention is concentrated on laying on washes, the five finger 
exercises of the design maker. The attention is on the making of the 
symbol, not on the concrete problem of the color. Again, the water 
color diagram seldom represents the actual problem — the texture, color, 
and design of the material to be used. The student is required to think 
in terms of generalities before she is even acquainted with the specific 
concrete possibilities. 

The problem of the appreciator is in the store downtown where she 
looks over a confusing mass of wall papers, cannot make up her mind, 
describes the room more or less inaccurately to the salesman and takes 
his judgment, which too often is based on latest designs and style in- 
stead of taste. To train the taste of this practical searcher for home 
comfort who has absolutely no desire to draw, the papers must be 
brought to her, and she must be taught by contrast to discriminate and 
select those that will fit the conditions of her home. The draperies 
must be considered in their real form and not as water color washes. 



290 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

She does not want to learn to represent them, she wants to leam to select 
and enjoy tliem. 

In costume work, these users of beauty need the practical training 
that will teach them to choose costumes suitable in color, fabric, and 
durability for the individual characteristics and income. They need 
to become acquainted with their own color possibilities, learn to select 
styles that are suitable for their individual types of figure. 

If choosing color schemes for these costumes is to have meaning it 
must be done with the actual samples, just as in the case of the wall 
papers. Painting a paper doll will not teach a girl to choose the particu- 
lar color of silk to combine with the cloth of the dress. Such procedure 
is asking her to think in terms of a s>Tnbol that she cannot use freely 
before she has had sufficient experience in handling colors in fabrics to 
know what she is trying to make the s>Tnbol represent. She must 
have the fabrics themselves to see, she must tr>' them on herself, she 
must study the real dress and the pattern book. And when she knows 
the facts, and has reached the stage of expression, her natural s>'mbol 
is the written or spoken word, not the drawing. Of course, the choice 
of good color in her own costume is the tinal test of the value of the 
work. 

The solving of all these problems lies within the scope of any person 
with a fair amount of sensitiveness to visual impressions, and a little 
careful guidance by one who has already travelled over the road. Surely 
there is no need here for the uninspired to struggle in making designs; 
aesthetic pleasure can be provided for those who have too often thought 
themselves "inartistic." 

Obviously, a course in appreciation that is to give any practical 
results may employ totally dilTerent methods from those we have recog- 
nized as studio methods. The teacher must make her standards graphic, 
must explain them by innumerable illustrations, must give more in 
explanation herself until she has built up in the pupils a sufficient number 
of experiences for them to compare and contrast for themselves. Then 
their reactions should not be in terms of drawing, but must come in 
definite form in the use of materials, not in a rei)rescntation of materials 
thnjugh learning a sym!>ol for them. This jjower of discrimination will 
always be in excess of their power to create. They need from the de- 
sign specialists more and better creations which they may use. The> 
fic) not need to make representations. 

Historic rostumis arc intt-rtsting, and their study down through lJr- 



1916] COSTUME APPRECIATION 291 

years can be left to the specialist who needs that knowledge; but to 
the average woman, what value to her what the Greeks wore if she picks 
out from the current fashion book the dress that will make her look 
twice her natural size? Or if, in her search after the unusual, she com- 
bines a green blue chifTon with a purjile blue silk, thereby killing the 
effect of both? Or if witli a sallow complexion, she insists on wearing 
a purple dress which increases the sallowness. 

It has been with these thoughts in mind that the writers have been 
experimenting with a course in Costume Appreciation in the Vocational 
School for Girls in Somervillc, Mass.; not to design costume accessories 
but to leam to select the dress that is appropriate for the individual, 
the color that is suited to the indixidual complexion, and the pattern 
from the fashion book that can best be adapted to a particular t^-pe of 
figure. The material that is beautiful, the combination of colors and 
textures to give the desired effect, the proportion and line that must 
be followed to give the best appearance, these are the practical results 
which are the right of ever>' woman to demand. 

These cardinal points of good taste in costume have been embodied in 
a course which is proving of intense interest to the girls in this par- 
ticular school. The work has been assembled in the form of a problem 
in planning a wardrobe for a given amount of money. 

In the first series of lessons, the girls were told that they were to 
plan the clothes of a woman in moderate circumstances. The wardrobe 
was to last her for a year. They were to assume that the wardrobe was 
entirely new, that there were no left-over clothes from a preceding 
year. This stand was necessary in order to avoid ingenious excuses for 
extravagance. The different kinds of dresses were discussed from the 
standpoint of cost, appropriate materials, and style correct for the occa- 
sion. Ever}' article of clothing was considered and the girls kept a 
record of the wardrobe Hst. 

The next series of lessons centered around the selection of two of 
the working dresses, in this case, the morning dresses of washable ma- 
terial. The girls first chose the color suited to the complexion. They 
studied the different types of complexion in the class, tested a great 
many large samples with the different types, and as a result came to 
some very definite conclusions as to what people with certain color, 
hair, skin, and eyes, could wear. Then each girl, unaided by the 
teacher, selected samples and made individual notes upon colors suitable 
for herself. These proved to be of much interest and indicated very 



292 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [jlUlC 

conclusively that the method had been successful. Out of some 85 
girls only two or three made a poor choice. Following the color lessons 
the materials were studied for their pattern beauty. This was done 
by means of discussion of a great many samples, good and bad, with 
gradual elimination of the poor ones, and ultimate selection of two good 
samples by each student. The cloth for the two working dresses could 
now be selected. 

The next step to consider was how to make the dresses. This involved 
study of line and proportion and that in turn furnished the problem of 
types of figures. What could the stout woman wear satisfactorily, the 
thin woman, tlie medium sized woman, the short waisted woman? 
Accordingly, the teacher made large pasteboard dolls ha\'ing these 
different types of figures, and dresses were made for the dolls which 
showed contrast of good and bad design in yokes, tucks, ways of 
making skirts and placing trimming. These were discussed in detail, 
and notes made on the different designs to use with each t\pe of figure. 
The test for the efficacy of this instruction was given in two ways. 
First, by each girl choosing one or more styles from fashion books, 
pasting them in her note book, and suggesting such modifications of the 
selected patterns as would make them suitable for the different tjpes 
of figures, of which she had small reproductions in the large dolls. Sec- 
ondly, by each girl choosing the style for her own dress according to her 
own type of figure. This work was made more \'ital by the paper 
modelling of patterns carried on at the same time by the teacher of 
dressmaking. 

The next costume, the afternoon frock, embodies three new points: 
what fabrics to put together, what colors to harmonize in different 
fabrics, and what proportional amounts of color to use. The ability 
to decide on the color quaUties to be used together is none too common, 
and girls need much training in this kind of selection. Working with 
color charts did not seem the right approach; it was too indefinite and 
too general. It was decided that practice in matching and selecting 
from a large supply of samples was needed. Accordingly, different 
tyj)ical colors such as light blue, bright blue, and dark blue in various 
fabrics were gathered with the assistance of the textile teacher who also 
supplied correlated work on durability and prices. After dcciiling on 
the kind of material to be used for trimmings, the girls were given 
much practice in choosing the right quality of color in this chosen 
fabric. From these concrete experiences were assembled general prin- 



1916] COSTUME APPRECIATION 293 

ciples of color rruxture regarding enhancing, neutralizing and modulat- 
ing effects of different colors on each other. As a final test of the power 
gained, the girls selected samples of materials and combined them in a 
dress made for a doll. The material was simply cut out and pasted on 
the flat doll which had been supplied by the teacher. This, of course 
involved also the choice of proportion of different colors, and was treated 
by means of discussion of actual dresses, of colored plates, and large 
paper dolls dressed in fabrics. In this case the use of the paper doll has 
a real place, for the students looked at her only for color spotting. 
They did not have to draw the figure, as that was done by the teacher. 
Moreover by this time they had handled a sufficient number of fabrics, 
and enough fashion plates, for the s>Tnbol to have meaning. All of this 
involved repetition of the work given earlier in the course. 

Work carried on in this way means much more for the teacher than by 
the ordinary methods. She must spend many hours gathering her 
samples, mounting them, making her large dolls and their dresses; and 
fmally, in the class room, she must make herself such a guidebook of 
ways to look at patterns and colors that the girls easily follow her lead. 
The class criticism of the material must be preceded each time by her 
own analysis and explanation in terms that will make the girls see and 
feel what the lines are doing to their eyes. To sit back and ask these 
children why one design appeals to them more than another is quite 
useless. Better to take one good design, point out the elements that 
make it pleasing, and contrast it with one from which such a reaction 
is impossible. By the time that the teacher has done this with three 
or four designs some kind of standard has been established and the 
girls are ready to look at the new designs to see if they can find some 
of these same pleasing elements. 

This course can be extended easily to meet the needs of upper gram- 
mar and high school pupils who are not interested in drawing. It is 
planned primarily for the purpose of bringing enriched aesthetic experi- 
ences within the reach of the many people to whom the manual opera- 
tions of drawing are of little interest. 



294 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [junC 

A CONTEST AND THE TALES IT TOLD 

ANNA MERRITT EAST 
Neiu Housekeeping Editor of the Ladies^ Home Journal 

"The best argument against woman's suffrage is the woman's page 
in the daily newspapers," brought me up with a start one day in New 
York and immediately I set out on a new tour — this time among the 
women's pages and home departments of newspapers and magazines. 
What did I find? Many interesting things and many astonishing 
''facts," such as "put the milk on in a double boiler and 60//," "all tea 
and tablespoons are rounding measurements;" "raisins are a fair sub- 
stitute for meat, they are rich in sugar, and, considering the value they 
possess, they are one of the cheapest articles on the bill of fare;" "oysters 
are fat and very nutritious." 

Then I asked the question, "Why are not women trained in Home 
Economics doing more of this writing?" "Why don't you try your 
hand at it?" Sometime afterwards, I was called to take up my present 
work, and had the opportunity of arranging a contest, in order to 
see whether the technically trained domestic science student or worker 
was really interested in this particular use of her training — ^to aid those 
not so fortunate as herself in having had the time and opportunity to 
devote to the mastery of both the heory and practice of household 
problems. In fine print on a back column of the November Ladies* 
Home Journal was announced this contest offering prizes for articles 
under three hundred words on the following topics : A Happier Method 
of Accomplishing an Old Household Task; A Household Superstition 
From Wliich I've Gained My Freedom; A Discovery I've Made in 
Food Preparation; My Suggestions for Improving Domestic Science 
Instruction. 

Although Ladies' Home Journal contests usually bring in responses by 
the thousands, this, because of its technical limitations, brought in but 
three hundred and thirty-four articles. However, when those for which 
we had room had been edited, they brought forth the follo\\'ing interest- 
ing comment from our editor, Mr. Bok: "I don't pretend to know whether 
these 'discoveries' will hold water, but if they arc all O. K. from a practi- 
cal point of view, they certainly sound all right from a journalistic stand- 
point. It seems tome to be good stuff." This being true of about 50 
per cent of the material submitted, it points out another great field of 
work for our girls who are taking Home Economics courses, for it is a 



1916] 



A CONTEST AND THE TALES IT TOLD 



295 



field that has been scarcely scratched on the surface by writers who 
have also a technical background. 

Of the three hundred and thirty-four articles received, forty-three came 
from the Iowa State Agricultural College at Ames, where the Home 
Economics Division and the Department of Journalism had both recog- 
nized the need of getting together by giving a course in journalism to 
Home Economics girls. Only six girls had registered for this work last 
fall, but when the Journal contest notice came out. Professor O'Brien said : 
"Now is our opportunity to get some of our articles into a big magazine 
where unknown writers usually have but little chance." (Not true, 
however, for here, as elsewhere, we are always on the lookout for a new 
writer who can produce effective copy.) So, for the four or five weeks 
before the closing of the semester, this class devoted its time entirely to 
Ladies^ Home Journal stories, and Ames gained the distinction of handing 
in as many article as any three schools together and carrying ofl six of 
the prizes. This is interesting, but the vital thing was what came out 
of it, for forty-five girls registered for this course in the second semester, 
and two are now regularly contributing to local papers. 

Teachers College, Columbia University, came next in the number 
submitted — twenty- two— and carried off seven prizes; again a school 
where there is active cooperation between the household arts and 
f^nglish instructors, and where at least one of the household arts instruc- 
tors made a class-room problem of the contest subjects. 

The followng are the schools which took the most active part: 



Iowa State College 

Teachers' College 

University of Chicago 

University of Wisconsin. . . . 

Drexel Institute 

Drake University 

Pratt Institute 

Kansas Agricultural College 

Illinois State Normal 

University of California 

High Schools 



NUUBER SENT 


NUMBER PRIZES 


43 


6 


22 


7 


11 


2 


10 




8 


3 


7 




6 


2 


6 


3 


6 




5 


2 


30 


4 



The time is ripe for the more definite training of popular writers on 
our Home Economics problems. Do we not owe it to the public to give 
them facts that are facts? 



296 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [JunC 

A HOME ECONOMICS EXHIBIT 

ALICE McCONE 

On December 3 the Home Economics Club of Montana State Col- 
lege at Bozeman fittingly honored the birthday of Ellen H. Richards 
by gi^^ng an exhibit of antiques, including jewelry, china, needlework, 
lace, samplers, wearing apparel and war relics. We had on display, 
near the entrance, Ellen H. Richards' picture and many of her books. 
A member of our club told the guests the purpose of the exhibit and 
something of the life and work of Mrs. Richards. 

The women of Bozeman very kindly lent us their most cherished 
antiques. Exhibits from various parts of the state were sent, in response 
to the notices sent to the newspapers. One woman sent a collection of 
rare old china which dated back almost two hundred years and also a 
hand-woven coverlid with the date 1672 woven in the corner. 

The hand-woven coverUds were exceptionally fine, almost all of them 
having been made during early national times. There were caps of 
fine colonial needlework, in which the tiny tucks were wonderful. Head 
coverings of various styles and periods, from the tiny hats to the calash, 
were among our collection. Of the many queer umbrellas sent, one, a 
square one, was more than one-hundred years old. 

There were some daguerreotypes over fifty years old and an old account 
book, the exact age unknown, containing the record of a purchase dated 
1715. 

We put the dresses on a number of dress forms and they illustrated 
styles from the colonial period until the present. The wedding garments 
of several great-great-grandmothers attracted much attention. We had 
several pairs of wedding slippers and one shoe about one hundred and 
twenty years old. 

Some of the club members were dressed as Puritan maids. One maid 
dipped candles, another wove a rug and another carded wool. To 
defray the expenses of the exhibit, we served tea and wafers to the 
visitors. 



1916] THE TEACHING OF TEXTILES IN ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS 297 

THE TEACHING OF TEXTILES IN ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS ^ 

KATHARINE FRENCH STEIGER 
Supervisor of Domestic Arts, Public Schools, Rochester, N. Y. 

The teacher of household arts has never before had such an opportunity 
as now presents itself in our great cities and in rural communities, if she 
can free herself from her own preconceived ideas and throw into the waste 
basket the course of study that was useful in its day but is no longer worth 
while. 

I quote from Miss Kinne, professor of household arts education, Co- 
lumbia University. The same might be said not only of the household 
arts teacher but of every teacher, academic, special or grade, who has 
to deal with the girl. The problem is here — the girl is here — the op- 
portunity is here. The industrial awakening and the necessary adjust- 
ment of courses of study call for cooperation on the part of the grade 
teacher as never before. Colleges and secondary schools have done much 
within recent years along the line of household arts— but colleges and 
secondary schools, no matter how excellent their curricula, how complete 
their equipment, or how strong the teaching force, cannot reach the vast 
number who through mental limitations or financial stress never get 
within their doors. 

It is claimed that 90 per cent of our school population will support 
themselves by work of hand while only 10 per cent will go to college. 
Of those entering the high school only 25 per cent remain to graduate 
while 50 per cent of the children enrolled in the elementary schools 
drift out into the world before completing the sixth year of instruction. 
In a city in New York state, one school alone registers one hundred and 
twenty-three girls from one to five years below the grade requirements. 
Similar conditions exist in other schools, other cities and other com- 
munities. This class of pupils the secondary schools seldom reach, and 
with those that are reached the work is handicapped unless the graded 
schools furnish a substantial foundation of rudimentary experiences for 
the more advanced courses of the high school and college later on. Here 
is a rich opportunity for the teacher of elementary subjects. "Down 
from the kindergarten to the college," as one educator aptly expresses it. 

State Superintendent Draper once said, "We must teach each child a 

* Presented at the Eighth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion, Seattle, 1915. 



298 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [j 



une 



few definite things well no matter at what age she may leave us." To 
teach a few definite things well a good foundation is necessary. Needle 
work in the grades is not a technical drill in stitches only, but a course 
of well defined, carefully thought out fundamental principles. When the 
great Cathedral of St. John the Divine was planned tons of cement were 
poured into the fissures of its rocky foundation. This was necessary 
in order to insure the permanence of the superstructure. Are we as 
teachers and directors of household arts using enough educational cement 
to guarantee that there will be no social and economic fissures in our 
domestic structure? The girl who leaves us must know not only how to 
sew by hand and by machine, but how to plan, what to buy and what not 
to buy. As soon as she begins to make an article for actual use or a real 
garment her attention should be called to the nature of the material 
handled, its name, its desirability, its suitability and its cost. So long 
as the needle exercise in the grades is limited largely to the drill in 
stitches, the worker taking little or no part in the selection of materials, 
so long is the domestic arts structure lacking in educational foundation. 
In the elementary school textile discussions or a few simple practical 
tests can be made a part of each sewing lesson. These will require 
about five minutes. If the children have provided their own materials 
as they always do in the Rochester schools, a comparison of the textiles 
purchased is a good beginning. To distinguish the chief characteristics 
of cotton, linen, wool and silk manufactures, the clothing worn by teacher 
and pupils will be a sufficient equipment for one day's lesson. Their 
ribbons, ginghams, lawns, Hnen and cotton suitings, coats, collars and 
neckwear can all be examined briefly. The laundering of delicate fab- 
rics, the detection of fast and fugitive colors, the effects of sunlight and 
alkali soaps can be tested easily in the school room or cooking center by 
means of small pieces of dress stuffs. The selection of a pattern for a 
school dress can be made in the class room also — small sheets illustrating 
desirable styles are furnished gratuitously in all department stores. By 
means of these sheets the planning of a girl's dress and an estimate of its 
entire cost is within the power of the average pupil. Farther on, the 
necessity for sponging cloths, variations in shrinkage and the dangers 
of gasoline and other dry cleansers can be made an important part of 
one term's instruction. In case the girl goes no farther than the sixth 
year, there should be included in her work the simple forms of ex{>eri- 
mentation which will prepare her for action when she is confronted with 



1916] THE TEACHING OF TEXTILES IN ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS 299 

similar problems of purchase later on in life. She should know a few defi- 
nitepractical things well and how to spend her money wisely as oneof them. 

For this type of girl the advanced physical and chemical tests of the 
college would mean little. She is not even ready for careful microscopic 
work and will probably never possess a microscope to use when 
one is needed. If, however, these simple exercises of the grades have 
trained observation and quickened judgment, an excellent foundation 
has been laid for future microscopic, physical and chemical tests should 
she be fortunate enough to have access to textile courses in schools of 
secondary rank later on. 

In outlining a textile course for the elementary school I am not un- 
mindful of the serious handicaps which confront the grade teacher and 
the supervisor in every well-organized school system— the crowded 
curriculum, the limited allotment of time, the many unlocked for in- 
terruptions, the shiftmg of pupils, and the over-large class. While the 
best a teacher of the grades can do is only a feeble attempt at what 
might be done under more favorable conditions, I believe that merely 
breaking ground for future habits of careful thinking and planning is 
well worth while. The girl should know a few definite things about her 
clothing, no matter at what age she may leave us to drift into business 
life, or into a home where there is no time for enlightenment even if the 
tired mother be competent to furnish it. 

Before submitting the textile course used in the Rochester schools I 
should like to sum up briefly the points made. 

a. Every girl before leaving the public schools should have some 
acquaintance with the textile materials which she has used in the sewing 
exercises. 

b. If she attempts to make her clothing this knowledge will help her 
to buy wisely; if she purchases the ready-made garment, such knowledge 
is even more essential. 

c. The large percentage of girls who drift from school into the indus- 
tries below the sLxth grade have no way to secure a textile training except 
through the graded school. 

d. A practical knowledge of textile values can be given this class of 
girls by the grade teacher in connection with the sewing lesson. The 
more advanced physical and chemical tests which belong properly to the 
college and the secondary school need this foundation. 



300 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [JunC 

e. We cannot buy taste and judgment, but to a certain extent they 
may be developed by training. 

/". The small amount of time allotted for the sewing exercise need not 
be a serious burden as the textile drill requires only a few minutes of 
each lesson. 

g. From its beginning the domestic arts course should emphasize 
fundamental principles rather than stitches. 

PLAN OF THE DOMESTIC ARTS WORK IN THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS OF 

ROCHESTER, N. Y. 

A school year consists of 40 weeks. 

Extending from the fifth through the eighth year sewing is taught 
two and one-half years and cooking one and one-half years. 

The average time for each lesson is one and one-quarter hours per 
week. 

Twenty-eight weeks per year are allowed for plain needlework. 

Ten lessons per year aim to train the taste through an exercise in 
applied design, each pupil making one design. 

Two periods during the year are suflficient for the preparation of the 
textile chart. This chart is intended to fix the knowledge gained through 
class discussions, language lessons, and written notes in connection with 
the sewing done. Language lessons and written notes are a part of the 
general class work. 

Study of materials 

Grade 5-B. Samples of cotton, linen, wool or silk, also price. 

Grade 5-A. Samples of materials, suitable for children's garments. 

Grade 6-B. Samples of colored fabrics washed and unwashed. 

Grade 7-B. Materials suitable for a school dress, also entire cost. 

Grade 8-B. Shrinkage of fabrics, and related problems. 

For the chart exercises the backs of discarded drawing pads are used 
as a foundation. After a class discussion, pupils paste their cloth 
pieces, raw materials and any necessary statements relating to cost, 
width, special name, etc., upon this card. For instance, pupils m grade 
5-B are learning to distinguish cottons, linens, woolens and silks at 
sight. They begin by observing the materials used in their own clothing 
and that of the teacher. Cottons and woolens are used for school 



1916] INEXPENSIVE RESTAURANTS IN CHRISTIANA 301 

dresses rather than linens and silks — why? Silk is used for hair ribbons — 
why? Linen for collars, culTs and shirt fronts — why? The danger of 
using outing flannel for children's clothing — ^why? The diflerence in 
cost of the four textile materials — why? After this training through 
observation and discussion, the materials brought from home are used 
in making a chart. This chart has no use except as a concrete evidence 
that the child understands. 

Grade 5-A goes one step further and considers the characteristics of 
each textile used — advantages and disadvantages of cottons and 
woolens, linens and silks — What makes cotton goods desirable in a sick 
room, linen for the table and so on. 

Pupils of Grade 7-B make use of the free fashion sheets to select a 
style of dress suitable for school use. This is pasted on a card, with 
sample of the materials needed, and a bill showing quantity and cost. 

In grade 8-B the materials used in making a piece of underwear are 
considered from the standpoint of durability, suitability and cost. 
Here emphasis is placed on shrinkage, the advantages of white linen 
tape over lingerie ribbons, and the need of care in selecting lace and 
beading. 

The effects of very hot water and soap on woolens are also tested. 



INEXPENSIVE RESTAURANTS IN CHRISTIANA AND IN 

VIENNA, AND A SHOP-GIRLS' RESTAURANT 

IN COPENHAGEN 

COMPILED BY HELEN W. ATWATER 
U. S. Department of Agriculture 

One of the English reviews^ contains an interesting article by Edith 
Sellers, with the title "Experimenting in Cheap Catering," which de- 
scribes two low-priced restaurants or food shops, one in Christiana and 
one in Vienna. The Norwegian establishment has been gradually de- 
veloped since 1857, when a group of business men started a restaurant to 
provide wholesome food for laboring people at a price which should 
pay the total cost of buying, preparing, and serving the food plus a rea- 

^ Nineteenth Cent, and After, 76 (1914), No. 453 (Nov.), pp. 1123-1137. 



302 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

sonable return on the capital invested. It was not a success until a de- 
partment was introduced for the sale of food, both raw and cooked, to be 
consumed at home. This made possible the purchase of all supplies at 
wholesale rates. Since then the patronage has steadily increased until 
over 1500 persons get their dinners there, 700 go to the cooked-food de- 
partment and several hundred others take minor meals in the cafe or 
purchase uncooked provisions. These numbers are especially significant 
as Christiana has a population of only 24,000. 

The restaurant serves three types of meals in separate rooms. Table 
d'hole dinners are served at noon in the dining room at 13.5 cents and at 
9 cents according to the combination of dishes, the portions in either 
case being ample. The cafe and the lunchroom are open from 8 a.m. 
to 10 p.m., and in them the service is a la carte. The quaUty of the food 
and service and the prices in the cafe are slightly below those in the 
lunchrooms, though in both they are wholesome and clean. 

The People's Kitchens in Vienna have been in operation since 1872, 
and have served as the models of the Alexandra Trust Dining Rooms in 
London, and similar organizations elsewhere. They now operate res- 
taurants and food shops all over Vienna and serve low-priced, well pre- 
pared meals to 22,000 persons daily, besides providing 5420 lunches for 
school children and selling food to several thousands who eat at home. 

They serve two table d'hote dinners, one at 14 cents and one at 10 
cents. The two consist of the same quahty of food; the more expensive 
one including a basin of soup with thick shces of bread and a large plate 
of hot veal, mutton, beef, or pork, with vegetables; the less expensive 
one consists of one course only, shepherd's pie, Irish stew, fish, sausage, 
or something of that kind. Both dinners are said to be as abundant as 
any "big, strong hand worker" could eat. 

Menus attd Price lists from People's Kikhens, Vienna 

Cents 

Clear soup 1^ 

Spinach 1 1 

Beef with spinach 65 or 3 5 

Venison with macaroni 6| or 3^ 

Fruit pudding ■^j 

Vegetable soup I5 

Peas l| 

Heef with peas 65 or 35 

Pork cutlets with salad f>2 or 35 

Ginger pudding ... 35 



1916] INEXPENSIVE RESTAURANTS IN CHRISTIANA 303 

The business, which is enlirely sch'-supporting though managed by a 
philanthropic association, is so organized that it can at short notice cater 
to 10,000 more than the regular patrons. The association is called on 
in emergencies, such as inundations, epidemics or other disasters in any 
part of the country, to take charge of the feeding of the district alTected 
and is able to respond immediately to such demands. 

In another article- published about the same time. Miss Sellers gives 
a very brief account of a shop-girls' restaurant in Copenhagen. The 
establishment described is in the heart of the business center of the city 
and it serves low-priced meals to from 1200 to 1800 shop girls, besides 
selling some cooked food. It occupies two floors of a large building, the 
lower devoted to a la carte service and the upper to tdble d'hote dinners. 
Each floor contains also sitting and dressing rooms where the patrons 
may rest, read, or sew. The rooms are all attractively furnished and 
the friendly atmosphere is further encouraged by the matrons who super- 
vise each room. The waitresses are young women of good breeding. 
Men are not allowed in the lunchroom but may be brought to the dining 
room as guests of women patrons, a form of hospitality said to be very 
popular. The proceeds are sufficient to cover all expenses, including 
rent and reasonable returns to the two women who have been entirely 
responsible for the management, but they do not allow of further profits. 

Bill of fare, Copenhagen, April 6 

Cents 

J roast ptarmigan with baked potatoes 15 

Boiled chicken with mashed potatoes 15 

Boiled or fried plaice 13 

Veal cutlet 15 

Game patties 11 

Braised calf's head with vegetables 10 

Boiled veal 10 

Beef balls with celery sauce 8 

Leeks with whipped butter 7 

Bouillon with egg 7 

Bouillon without egg 4 

Rhubarb porridge with cream 6 

Apple porridge with cream 6 

Rice with stewed cranberries and cream 4 

Wine jelly with custard 4 

Oatmeal porridge with milk or fruit 6 

Oatmeal soup with milk or fruit 4 

2 fried eggs with bread and butter 10 

Cold meat, smoked salmon, sliced eggs, etc, with bread and butter 11 

2 Cornhill Mag., n. ser. 37 (1914), No. 221 (Nov.), pp. 656-665. 



304 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [june 

To what extent the war which broke out soon after Miss Sellers' 
articles were written has aflfected these successful eflforts at low-priced 
catering, it is impossible to say, but it seems probable thivt in times of 
such unprecedented social and financial strain as all the nations referred 
to are going through, any establishment which is organized to provide 
good food in a truly economical way would prove exceptionally valu- 
able. Since the Viennese Kitchen had previously done emergency 
work, they have in all probability also done their share in the special 
war relief of which Austria has had so much. 



THE FUNDAMENTAL BASIS OF NUTRITION 

A third printing of this book^ offers an opportunity that we are glad 
to embrace to call it to the special attention of those who wish to obtain 
in brief form an authoritative statement on the subjects included. 

The book gives a short historical review of the growth of knowl- 
edge regarding nutrition and presents the subject of nutrition from the 
standpoint of the fuel and protein needs of the body. In this cormection 
attention is given to dietary habits in diflcrent countries and to the 
deficiency disease, beri-beri. Much information is given concerning the 
monetary value of foods. 

Information is summarized regarding the basal heat production of the 
body and the increases in this due to the ingestion of food, sitting up, 
walking, and exercising vigorously, as determined by calorimetric meas- 
urements, and the author discusses the food requirements of the body 
under different conditions as indicated by its heat production. 

As regards the protein needs of the body emphasis is laid on the relative 
physiological value of the different proteins with especial reference to tne 
amino acids which they supply to the body. Thus the amino acids neces- 
sary to build new body proteins are present in the proteins of meat, milk, 
eggs, and fish, but arc absent in proteins like gelatin or zein. It is also 
stated that "when the units are in a very different ratio to one another 

• The Fundamental Basis of Nutrition. G. Lusk, New Haven, Conn.: Yale University 
Press, 1914, pp. 62. Reprinted 1914 and 1915. Price $0.50. 



1916] THE FUNDAMENTAL BASIS OF NUTPITION 305 

from that in which they exist in body protein, they must be of inferior 
nutritive value, since large quantities must be broken up in order to 
^ield that quantity of certain units necessary for the construction of 
animal protein. Such inferior proteins occur among the plants. Plant 
proteins are eaten by the ox and are reconstructed into beef proteins, 
with the oxidative elimination of the excess of chemical units which are 
unnecessary for the structure of the animal cell. In this way beef pro- 
tein attains a higher biological value for the nutrition of man than is 
possessed by vegetable proteins." Owing to differences in their amino 
acid make-up the amount of different proteins which must be eaten to 
protect the body from protein loss varies; about 30 grams of meat or 
milk protein and as much as 76 grams of bread protein or 102 grams of 
Indian corn protein being required. 

The author calls attention to the power of protein to increase greatly 
the heat production of the body by stimulation, stating among other 
things that "individuals maintained on a low protein diet may suffer 
intensely from the cold. A good piece of beefsteak or roast beef will 
put the heat production on a higher level, and a person going out of doors 
on a cold day after a meal high in protein does not feel the cold. For 
the same reason, on a hot summer day, meat will be avoided." 

One chapter is devoted to the diversity of dietary habits in different 
parts of the world, attention being called to the diet of the Eskimo, which 
at times contains as much as 9 pounds of meat per person daily, the low 
protein diets of the inhabitants of India, China, Japan, and the Pliilip- 
pines, and the standard Europ>ean diet of Voit. 

The author emphasizes the importance of considering the cost of foods 
in relation to their nutritive value and much information is given re- 
garding the cost of nutrients as furnished by different food materials 
and in the final chapter data collected by F. C. Gephart regarding the 
cost and nutritive value of the portions of various foods sold from the 
counter of a well-known chain system of restaurants in New York and 
other cities are included which serve to emphasize the extreme varia- 
bility of the purchasing power of money when expended for food. In 
general, the author proposes that foods should be sold on the basis of 
their energy value and of the proportion of the total energ>^ contributed 
by proteins. "The proteins of the foodstuffs should be labeled A, B, 
and C according to their physiological value, and to group D might be- 
long gelatin and some other proteins which can not replace the body pro- 
tein that is continually wearing away." The relative value of different 



306 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

proteins, as determined by the products which they yield on hydroly- 
sis, as well as other recent work on the nature and functions of protein, 
are discussed. 

As the author points out, "since the efhciency of labor depends upon 
its [i. e. of the body] energy and constant repair, it is certainly of no 
small moment that the citizen should know how best to maintain the 
machine at a maximum of efficiency. Not only that, but in times of 
trouble he should know where to turn to find nourishment in the form 
which is best and cheapest. ... If, through the medium of the 
schools and the press, everyone knew that a man of sedentary occupa- 
tion required 2500 calorics and a laboring man 3000 calories and more, 
no one suffering from want would spend his money for a can of toma- 
toes which is Uttle else than flavored water. 

*'It has been estimated that a family of 5, including the father, a clerk, 
the mother who does the housework, and 3 cliildren, 9 and 6 years and 1 
month old, respectively, requires 7750 calories per day." Data are pre- 
sented showing the cost of a diet sufficient to supply this energ>', 5 per 
cent of the total coming from animal proteins of grade A and 10 per 
cent from vegetable proteins of grade C (bread). The necessary pro- 
tein to supplement the bread would be suppHed by four-fifths pound 
salt codfish, three-fifths pound smoked ham, four-fifths pound cheese, 
two and one-half pounds milk, one and one-half pounds loin pork, one 
and one-third pounds of mutton, one and one-fourth pounds cod steak 
(fresh) , one and one-third pounds sirloin beef, or one and one-half pounds 
turkey. According to the prices of foods in the New York markets 
January 28, 1913, the cost of the ration would vary from 47 cents -vsith 
bread and salt codfish to 78 cents with bread and turkey. 

"If com meal, oatmeal, dried beans or rice had been used instead of 
bread, these prices would have been lower, whereas potatoes would 
have slightly increased them. 

"These figures are for the great staples of diet. . . It is obvi- 

ous that when more than an average of 8 cents is expended for UK)0 
calorics of nutriment, the diet must include luxuries." 

The author estimates that three servants will double and six servants 
treble the food bill given above. "Whatever is spent above these 
amounts is paid for waste or for nonessentials in the form of flavors of 
high i)ricc. High cost may also be due to carnivorous indulgence ap- 
proximating that of the Eskimo. . It is not probable that the 
food values actually consumed are very different in the various well- 
nourished families. Only the cost can vary enormously." 



1916] PASTEURIZATION AS A PUBLIC HEALTH MEASURE 307 

PASTEURIZATION AS A PUBLIC HEALTH MEASURE 

C. E. HILLIARD 

Professor of Biology and Public Health, Simmons College 

Foods of animal origin that are consumed in the raw state must be 
reckoned among the important distributors of disease. Whatever the 
art of cooking may contribute to flavor and digestibility of foods, it is 
preeminently a health measure. Prof. William T. Sedgwick goes so far 
as to say that "probably the greatest sanitary step ever taken was the 
application of high temperatures to the preparation of food." When 
we consider that the primary source of disease germs is the animal body, 
chiefly the human body, it is not difficult for us to picture the way in 
which germs travel from person to person witliin or upon the unsteri- 
lized vehicle, food. It is true that many of the bacteria will survive 
prolonged heating at cooking temperatures, but, fortunately, almost 
none of the pathogenic organisms exhibit such resistance. 

Milk was certainly intended by nature to be consumed in the raw 
state, but in the natural order of things the source of supply and the 
consumer were very close together. Nothing can ever rival breast-fed 
milk as a perfect pure food for infants. As man has commercialized 
cow's milk, however, the pure comparatively germ-free product becomes 
exposed to all sorts of contaminations. The market has been driven 
further and further from the source of supply, and the number of per- 
sons coming in contact with the milk, the different containers it must 
pass through, and the time consumed in its transportation have all 
contributed to its germ content potential disease germs, and have 
made it a very questionable food product, especially in large cities. 

Picture, for example, the difiiculties involved in protecting a supply 
like that of New York City; literally a vast river of 2,000,000 quarts of 
milk, coming from a radius of 400 miles, arising from 44,000 sources 
situated in seven different states, flowing into a number of huge reser- 
voirs which serve as the centers of distribution within the city. Con- 
stant super\'ision of such an area is almost impossible. 

It is impractical to try to estimate how many people are employed in 
handling this supply, but it is certainly in the hundreds of thousands. 
One person in every three or four hundred of the average population 
suffers each year from typhoid fever, and so each year it is highly prob- 
able that some of this supply comes in contact with incipient cases of 
this disease. Add to this danger the more serious menace from the 



308 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

typhoid germ "carrier," i.e., the healthy, unsuspecting harbinger of the 
disease germ, and we begin to reahze why we so frequently see accounts 
of milk-borne epidemics of t}^hoid fever in the newspapers. 

The danger from tuberculosis is twofold; the cow, as well as man, 
is a source of tubercle bacilli. The former will in time be efTectively 
controlled by ehminating the tuberculous cattle, but it is more difficult 
to protect against infection by human beings. 

Other diseases that may be transmitted by milk are diphtheria, scarlet 
fever, epidemic sore throat, and various intestinal disorders of infants 
and children. The above list is not complete, and if we could take the 
space to give some figures on the amount of sickness and death caused 
by the drinking of raw milk, no one would doubt the potential danger 
lurking in the opaque and apparently pure fluid. Thanks to the ad- 
vancement of science, the day of unheated milk as a food product in 
America is rapidly passing. 

It was about 1870 that Louis Pasteur, studying the causes of deteriora- 
tion of wines and beers, discovered that the cause of these "diseases" was 
living microorganisms, and showed that they might be destroyed by 
subjecting the liquors to the temperatures of ISS'' F. to 176° F, for a 
few minutes. The process was called "pasteurization" for the great 
man who originated it. The term now usually refers to the practice 
of partially sterilizing milk by heating it to temperatures well below the 
boiling point of water, and cooling it rapidly to 50° F. or lower. 

The application to milk was first tried in Denmark to improve the 
flavor of butter and to prevent tuberculosis developing in calves to whom 
the skimmed milk was fed. It was next employed secretly by dealers 
to enhance the keeping qualities of milk. It was looked upon with 
disfavor by health officials who believed that it was simply a way of 
concealing careless production and handling. 

With the growth of knowledge of the sources and modes of infection, 
and expecially of the role of milk, a few sanitarians advocated pasteuri- 
zation as a public health measure to be applied to large city supplies, 
and, although they met with serious opposition which came, curiously 
enough, from the medical profession, today the practice is so well recog- 
nized that we find it used as an advertising asset by many milk com- 
panies, and official regulation is requiring the heating of all milk except 
the very highest grades. In New York City 99 per cent of the entire 
supply is pasteurized, a condition the more remarkable since five years 
ago only 7 per cent was heated. In 1913 the amount had risen to 75 
per cent of the total. In 1913, 80 per cent of Boston's daily supply of 



1916] PASTEURIZATION AS A PUBLIC HEALTH MEASURE 309 

390,000 quarts was pasteurized, and similar figures might be quoted 
for many other large American cities. 

This progress has not been made without serious opposition and does 
not go unchallenged even today. Physicians claimed that heated milk 
caused rickets and scurvy. Perhaps the fmal word has not been said 
on this point, but the evidence does not support the charge. Rickets 
seems to be a disease of defective alimentation, while scurvj' is remedied 
by giving with the food the juice of fruits, as orange or pineapple. The 
claim that malnutrition follows the use of this food by infants and chil- 
dren lacks evidence unless we take occasional exceptional instances. 

Pasteurized milk is recommended today by most pediatrists espe- 
cially in the summer time, and we fmd that most of the milk dispensed 
at the baby milk stations is heated milk. Nathan Straus began dis- 
tributing pasteurized milk to babies in New York City in 1893. The 
tirst year only 34,000 bottles were distributed, while in 1906 the amount 
had risen to 3,140,252 bottles. The results more than justified the 
experiment, and now the gospel of safe heated milk versus questionable 
raw milk has spread through the land. 

A comparison of what baby will do on the two kinds of milk is given 
by Mr. George ISI. Oyster who has distributed milk in Washington, D. C. 
under careful medical advice. There were three groups of babies; one 
using raw milk, one pasteurized milk, and a third using pasteurized and 
raw milk intermittently. In the first group of 351 babies, a net gain 
in weight per baby per day of 0.4030 ounce was shown. The 557 babies 
using pasteurized milk gained in weight an average of 0.4077 ounce, 
showing an excess over the first group of 0.0047 ounce per baby per 
day. The third group used raw milk part of the time and pasteurized 
milk part of the time. All the other factors remained the same. While 
on raw milk each baby gained 0.4312 ounce, and during the time they 
used heated milk, gained 0.4607 ounce per day, or an excess in favor 
of the pasteurized milk diet of 0.0295 ounce per baby per day. 

Some other interesting data on the relative merits of raw as com- 
pared with heated milk for children is found in the case of the death 
rates in New York among young children in the city's care. The milk 
used throughout came from a selected herd. During the three years 
1895-1897, 1509 deaths occurred among 3609 children while using raw 
milk, or 41 .8 per cent died. With no other change except the introduc- 
tion of pasteurized milk, between 1898 and 1904, 1349 deaths occurred 
among 6200 children, or 21.75 per cent died. These figures speak 
eloquently for the use of pasteurized milk for babies and children. 



310 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

Much of the opposition to the practise of pasteurization has arisen 
because of the results obtained by the early workers using considerably 
higher temperatures than are now known to be necessar>' . Boiling milk, 
or even heating it to 160° F. or above, will affect the physical and chemi- 
cal properties of milk detrimentally, destroying the cream line (the chief 
asset the purchaser demands), scorching the milk sugar, altering the 
casein and albumins, and precipitating various salts. Such changes 
impart a cooked taste to milk and may make it less digestible or per- 
haps may remove or render unavailable certain essential accessory 
substances. The evidence in regard to the value of boiled versus raw 
milk in infant feeding is still inconclusive, although we have apparent- 
ly overemphasized the importance of the changes induced by high 
temperatures.^ It is not necessary to use such high temperatures to 
obtain the desired result, nor is it recommended. 

Another objection, and perhaps the most important one, has been 
that heated milk will subsequently putrefy instead of undergoing the 
normal souring process. The putrifying bacteria are, as a group, more 
resistant than are the lactic acid bacteria, but still they do not all 
succumb, as was supposed, to pasteurizing temperatures. Very ex- 
haustive studies by the United States Department of Agriculture,* have 
shown that milk properly pasteurized will go through exactly the same 
series of changes that high grade raw milk will undergo. When heated 
to 145° F. for thirty minutes, 98-99 per cent of all the bacteria will be 
killed. The minority left will be representatives of a great variety of 
different kinds of bacteria, including some of the acid-producing varieties 
which flourish in the milk if it becomes warm. Absolutely no disease 
producing bacteria that could fmd access to milk can resist this tem- 
perature for this period of time. 

The claim has been made by some from the outset that pasteuriza- 
tion will become a substitute measure for cleanliness, and that all our 
campaign for clean milk will go for naught. If this were true, it would 
be sufficient reason for abating the practise, but it is not the claim of the 
pasteurization advocates that it is a substitute for cleanliness, but that 
it is an extra safe-guard. Dirty milk cannot be made clean by heating, 
even though it can be made safe, and no one has a relish for barn yard 

'U. S. Dcpt. of Agr. Bur. Aninril Indus. Bui. 126. 

' Lanc-CIaypon. Report to Loc.il Gov't Board of London, vols. 76-80. 
N. S. Davis. Food in Health and Disease, p. 7.S. 
J. II. Ca.stlc. Hygienic I^aboralory Bui. 56, p. .^M. 
-McCollum and Dav-is. Jour. Biol. Chcm. (191.S), p. 233 and pp. 249-251. 



1916] PASTEURIZATION AS A PUBUC HEALTH MEASURE 311 

dirt, even if sterilized. The practise has been likened to our present 
methods of providing safe water. Everything possible is done to pro- 
tect the watershed from pollution, but since this measure is imperfect, 
the water is filtered or treated before it goes to the consumer. The 
supervision of the "milk shed" is of necessity imperfect, and so a safety 
guard is imposed. 

Our measures of supervision should be extended rather than relaxed, 
and should cover not only the source of production, but also the efficiency 
of pasteurization, for it is a scientific process that cannot be left to indi- 
vidual caprice. 

There are three general methods of pasteurization; the flash process, 
the holder process, and heating in the bottle. In the former method, 
the milk runs into a container and is rapidly heated to a high tempera- 
ture, about 178° F. usually, by coming in contact with a hot water 
jacket or with coiled pipes heated by water. It remains at this tempera- 
ture for only a brief period, and is then withdrawn and rapidly cooled 
and aerated by running over cold pipes. This method is not as efficient 
nor as reliable as is the holder process. 

In the holder method the milk is first clarified by filtration and cen- 
trifugalization, and then it runs into the heating tank where it reaches 
the desired temperature — 140° to 158° F. — and from there it flows into 
the holding tank where it remains for a time, depending upon the degree 
of heat used. At least three minutes is recommended for the highest 
temperature, and thirty, minutes for the lowest. The usual tempera- 
ture is 145° F. for from twenty to thirty minutes. In large plants, the 
time of holding is controlled automatically, and the milk then flows 
back toward the source of raw milk where it flows around pipes contain- 
ing the incoming cold raw milk. The hot milk is cooled and the cold 
milk is warmed, and so a great economy for the producer is eflfected. 
When cooled and aerated, the milk is bottled automatically, and is 
capped by a machine, so that it never comes in contact with the opera- 
tors, except for inspection of the caps, which occasionally are improper- 
ly sealed. 

Pasteurization in the receptacle for delivery approximates a perfect 
method. In this case the milk is bottled and sealed with a special tight 
cap. It is then put in a special chamber and a thermometer recording 
automatically on a disc is inserted into the middle of one of the bottles 
so that the temperature of the milk and not of the chamber is taken. 
The milk is gradually heated to the desired temperature by an increas- 



312 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

ingly hot shower of water or by other means, is held for the proper time, 
cooled in the container, and then iced ready for shipment. 

Many modifications of the above described methods exist, and the 
apparatus is constantly being perfected. The prime requisites are al- 
ways the same: To heat the milk rapidly to the desired point; to pro- 
vide for maintaining this temperature; to chill promptly; and to avoid 
to the greatest degree possible, the handling of the milk or the bottles 
after being heated. 

A discussion of pasteurization would be incomplete unless mention 
were made of the economic aspect. Besides being a public health 
measure it is a food conservation measure, as it postpones deterioration 
of a valuable food product by reducing enormously the initial numbers 
of the acidifying and decomposition organisms. Pasteurized milk will 
remain pure and wholesome for a long time if it is kept constantly chilled, 
and so it results in a saving to producer and to householder. 

On the other hand, it costs money to install and to operate a pasteuri- 
zation plant as well as to maintain a good qualit}- of milk coming to the 
plant. Pasteurized milk costs more, but the extra expense is more than 
compensated by reduction of the doctor's and the undertaker's bill. The 
farmer is complaining today because he does not make a living out of a 
dairy herd, but it is not, as many people think, because the distributor 
is taking all the profits. "PubHc health is purchasable," within certain 
hmits and we, the public, must pay an extra cent here and there to have 
it guaranteed us. 

The practice of pasteurization has passed the experimental stage and 
is here to stay as a part of our new sanitary enlightenment. It is not 
an attempt to mask dirt in milk. It is good food for babies who cannot 
have breast milk, and for children; it is economy to buy it and to save 
in doctors' fees; and finally it makes clean milk a safe food. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

FOOD SELECTION FOR RATIONAL AND ECONOMICAL 

LIVING 

C. F. LANGWORTHY 

Chief, Office of Home Economics, Stales Relations Service, U. S. Department of 

Agriculture 

The following is part of a paper given by Dr. Langworthy at the meetings of the Amer- 
ican Association for the Advancement of Science in Columbus, Ohio, 1916, and later pub- 
lished in the Scientific Monthly for March, 1916. With the permission of the Monthly the 
JotTRNAL is including the whole article among its reprints. We hope that not only house- 
keepers but teachers as well may be so interested in the extracts given here that they will 
send to the Journal for the whole article. — The Editor. 

There are a number of factors which should be taken into account 
when one discusses diet with reference to its adequacy and economy 
and to the satisfaction which it gives. Among these are a knowledge of 
local markets and standards of food quaUty; wise selection of food; prep- 
aration and cooker}' ; and the planning of meals, or, as it is so commonly 
called, "menu-making." 

By a knowledge of markets is meant not only knowledge of the loca- 
tion of butchers, grocers and other dealers in food in one's neighborhood 
or town, but also a good idea of the reliability of the different dealers, the 
quality of the goods which they offer, the relation of the cash or credit 
systems of selling to their prices, and other such things. To be complete 
it should also include some understanding of the production and distri- 
bution of food materials; such information, for instance, as would lead 
the housekeeper to purchase local-grown goods when possible, not only 
because they may be fresher, but also because of the difference in their 
favor of transportation charges and hence of price. With respect to the 
quality of foods, the housekeeper should know, for instance, how to dis- 
tinguish old and young poultry, and tough, overfat or overripe meats; 
she should know the relative merits of wilted and fresh vegetables, being 
able to tell when the former can be freshened or when they include too 
much inevitable waste to be economical. 

Wise choice of foods involves possession of other lines of information 

313 



314 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

and experience which enables the housekeeper to purchase to good advan- 
tage. She must realize that out-of-season foods, like strawberries or 
green peas in January, will be more expensive, and no more nutritious, 
than the same foods in early summer, while foods which are uncommon 
at all times, like fresh mushrooms, will be more expensive than cabbage 
or carrots, which they closely resemble in nutritive value. She may 
select according to her circumstances, but she should do so "with her 
eyes open," and not in the belief that the superior virtues belong neces- 
sarily to the rare or the unusual. Then, too, she must take into account 
the quantities which can be handled advantageously in the home. It is 
the part of wisdom to purchase in quantity those supplies which can be 
easily stored and kept without deterioration, while such purchase would 
be decidedly unwise in the case of perishable foods, or if there are no 
proper storage facilities. She must take into account further the ability 
of the person who cooks to make acceptable dishes from the foods sup- 
plied. If she does not know how to make a palatable pot roast or similar 
dish from a tough cut of beef and does know how to broil a steak well, 
there may be some economy in choosing the steak. The suitability, with 
respect to the needs of the individual family, of the food purchased, is 
another important consideration. Thus, a good deal of waste comes 
from the purchase of meats which give too large cuts for the family 
tastes. For instance, if the chops purchased are so large that the indi- 
vidual portion which would be served (usually one large or two small 
chops) is larger than the eater's average appetite, part of the meat may 
be left on the plate and thrown away. The housekeeper, therefore, 
should take pains to provide materials which can be served in portions 
to "fit" the family tastes. 

The relative amount of time, labor and fuel which is required in 
preparing foods for the table has a decided influence upon actual as 
compared with apparent cost. The busy housekeeper who wishes to pre- 
pare breakfast quickly may recognize this when she pays a higher price 
per pound for some ready-to-eat cereal, which at most only requires to 
be warmed before serving, instead of buying a breakfast cereal costing 
less per pound but which must be cooked for several hours. 

Cooker^' and other matters pertaining to the preparation of food for 
the table are particularly important from the standpoint of economy and 
satisfaction. 

The housekeeper needs such knowledge, whether she applies it her- 
self, or whether she directs some one else. If, in addition to the art of 



1916] FOOD SELECTION 315 

cooker}', she understands relative food values and other technical mat- 
ters pertaining to food and its uses, her task of providing a rational 
diet will be the easier. 

The last factor, namely, the planning of meals, is veryjmportant and 
places a great responsibility upon the housekeeper, since it determines 
whether or not the diet provides the body with all the materials it 
requires. It is a problem which is often well solved by the housekeeper 
on the basis of empirical or other knowledge, but which is almost certain 
to be wrongly solved if such knowledge is lacking. Certainly, it is one 
regarding which there is much ignorance and many misconceptions. 

A fundamental principle is that the diet, considered for any reason- 
able length of time, must supply a great variety of chemical substances 
combined in dilTcrent ways for the "structural" needs of the body, and 
also must supply it with energy-yielding substances with which it may 
perform internal and external work. It seems apparent that a varied 
diet, reasonably generous in amount, is more likely to meet the body 
needs than one restricted or unvarying in its make up or scant in quan- 
tity. A general variety can be secured in two ways, either by using a 
considerable number of dissimilar food materials or by using varied 
methods of cookery with a smaller number of food materials. While 
both methods have their uses it is well to remember that the first is the 
one more likely to provide variety from a chemical standpoint. 

A consideration of the results of American experiments and other 
data has led us to conclude that with our ordinary food habits, involving, 
as they do, the use of a considerable variety of foods in reasonably liberal 
quantities, one is justified for many purposes in discussing dietetics on 
the basis of energy only, since a diet which supplies 3000 to 3500 
calories of energy per man per day, as ours so very commonly does, 
almost inevitably suppHes the needed protein, ash, and other constitu- 
ents also. Particularly is this the case when one takes pains to include 
in the diet a reasonable amount of milk, green vegetables and fruit. If 
we accept this conclusion as rational, it enables us to go ahead without 
controversy until the time comes when we have more abundant knowl- 
edge of the kinds and quantities of protein we need, of the functions of 
mineral elements and the best ways to meet our body needs for them, 
and of the nature of vitamines or other regulatory substances. 

In its studies of methods for imparting information through its exten- 
sion and other activities, the Department of Agriculture has endeavored 
to classify common foods in a way corresponding to their distinctive 



316 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[June 



functions in nutrition. The division must be more or less arbitrary, for 
some foods could go almost equally well in two or more groups. Thus 
milk, which is a general food, is included with the protein foods because 
it is a valuable source of this nutrient. Bread is a carbohydrate food, 
a protein food, and an ash->-ielding food, but it is classed a carbohydrate 
food because its most obvious constituent is starch, and because we use 
it in the same general way as we do starchy foods like potatoes. The 
classification as now arranged consists of five groups, and it is the under- 
standing that each of these groups should be represented, if not at 
every meal, at least once a day, and that if an excessive number of food 
materials from any one group are used in the course of a day the result 
is likely to be unsatisfactory from the standpoint of rational dietetics 
or of taste. 

The groups may be described as: (1) Foods high in protein or flesh 
foods (except the very fattest), milk, cheese, eggs and such meat substi- 
tutes as dried beans, peas, and other legumes, and some of the nuts; (2) 
starchy foods; (3) fat foods; (4) watery fruits and vegetables (excluding 
dried legumes and fruits which have been dried or combined with 
much sugar); and (5) sweets. 

The grouping is easy to remember and provides a guide for the house- 
keeper in the selection of food materials for a meal or for a day's ration 
and also a means of checking up and criticizing the meals which have 
been served. 

Sotne common foods grouped according to their characteristics 
(All five groups should be represented in the diet every day) 



CROUP 1 


GROUP 2 


GROUP 3 


GROUP 4 


CROUP 5 


Foods characterized 
by protein 


Foods characterized 

by starch and 

similar carbohydrates 


Foods characterized 
by fat 


Foods characterized 

by mineral sub- _ 

stances and organic 

acids 


Foods characterized 
by sugan 


Lean meats 


Bread 


Butter 


Spinach 


Sirup 


Poultry 


Crackers 


Cream 


Peas 


Honey 


Fish 


Macaroni 


Lard and other 


Lettuce 


Jellies 


Oysters, etc. 


Rice 


culinary fats 


Potatoes 


Dried fruits 


Milk 


Cereal breakfast 


Salt pork 


Turnips 


Candy 


Cheese 


foods, meals 


Bacon 


Apples 




Eggs 


and flours 


Chocolate 


Oranges 




Dried legumes 






Berries 




Nuts 










And other pro- 


And other cereal 


And other fatty 


And other vege- 


And other sweets 


tein-rich foods 


foods 


foods 


tables and 
fruits, raw or 
cooked 





1916] FOOD SELECTION 317 

The following sets of menus contain none but wholesome and desir- 
able food materials. These food materials, however, have been poorly 
combined so far as the protein, fat, and carbohydrate which they provide 
are concerned. The first set is characterized by much protein, the 
second set by much fat, and the third set by much carbohydrate. 

Menus with protein predominating 

Breakfast: Cereal cooked in milk, chicken hash with egg, popovers, butter, and milk as a 

beverage. 
Dinner: Dried-bean pur6e, halibut steak, potatoes scalloped in milk, tomatoes stuffed with 

chopped beef, bread and butter, and frozen custard with nut cookies. 
Lunch or supper: Baked beans, nut bread and butter, old-fashioned rice pudding, and a glass 
of milk. 
The following shows a day's menus (not at all unusual or peculiar) in which fat foods 
predominate. 

Menus with fat predominating 

Breakfast: Oatmeal with cream, sausage, and com bread and butter. 

Dinner: Cream of tomato soup, mutton chop with creamed potatoes, greens cooked with 
bacon or pork, bread, and suet pudding with hard sauce. 

Lunch or supper: Creamed salmon, lettuce with oil dressing, tea biscuits and butter, pump- 
kin pie, and a cup of chocolate. 
The following is an example of three meals of combinations common enough but in which 

carbohydrate (starch and sugar) predominates. 

Menus with carbohydrate predominating 

Breakfast: An orange followed by com cakes with maple symp, and bread or toast and 

butter. 
Dinner: Meat pie and baked potato, green peas, bread and butter, and cottage pudding with 

chocolate sauce. 
Lunch or supper.' Rice croquettes with jelly, rye bread and butter, baked apples, and sugar 

cookies. 

In analyzing these one finds that into the first day's menu there 
went sixteen food materials other than fresh fruits and vegetables, of 
which nine were from Group 1. Milk entered into or made up ten 
dishes; eggs, four; nuts, two; and beef, fish, chicken, dried beans, and 
dried peas, each, one. Into the second day's menu went nineteen food 
materials other than fresh fruits and vegetables, of which nine were dis- 
tinctly fatty foods (lard, oil, butter, cream, salt pork, and others), while 
the meat, fish, and even the cereal chosen were those which contained 
comparatively high percentages of fat. Into the third day's ration went 
eleven food materials, of which six were starchy or sugary (rye, wheat, 
corn, rice, maple syrup, cane sugar). 

Thus, by unwise choice one characteristic of the well-chosen diet — a 
right proportion between protein and fuel — was omitted. 



318 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

To benefit by well-selected menus, each member of the family should 
eat all of the kinds of food provided, for, if a person habitually eliminates 
some particular sort of food as fruits and green vegetables, he has failed 
to take advantage of the housekeeper's selection, no matter how good it 
may be. One must, speaking broadly, relish all kinds of food, which is 
a matter of good habits and good maimers as well as of physiological 
importance. 

The housekeeper who will learn the simple classification of foods 
mentioned above can easily see the relation of the different groups of 
foods to the character of the meals she provides. She need only go a 
step further to realize that it is wiser to provide dishes varied in character 
for a given meal, and also meals varying from those of the same day and 
varying from day to day. She can do this easily by taking care to see 
that the different food groups are represented in at least two of the 
three meals she serves each day. The more extended her information 
as to market faciUties, the wider her knowledge of standards of quality, 
the wiser her selection of foods, and the greater her skill in preparing and 
cooking them, the easier it will be for her to plan meals by this or any 
other method, which will be reasonable, economical and satisfactory, as 
well as adequate. 



THE NEED OF JUVENILE PLACEMENT DEPARTMENTS 

The mother of today cannot confine her care and attention to her own 
children. She must effectively interest herself in the welfare of other 
children. The need in one direction is well shown by the following 
statements from the Leaflet of the Women's Municipal League of New 
York on April 4, 1916. 

The state allows children to leave school at 14 to go to work. 

In New York State 67,642 children under 16 left school to go to work 
during the year ending June 30, 1913. 

Thousands of these children arc stumbling from one blind alley job into 
another, getting no training, wasting the years when they should be learning 
a trade. 

Not long ago a child of 15 came to one of the state public employment 
bureaus. She had been drifting around for two months trying to fmd a 
job wjicre she couUI learn something. Sin- had worked in a licorice factory 



1916] THE NEED OF JUVENILE PLACEMENT DEPARTMENTS 319 

for three weeks; then she tried winding ribbons for a month. Finding this 
was leading her nowhere, she tried pasting for a week. Then she heard of 
the EmpIoNTTient Bureau and came to the superintendent for advice. What 
could the superintendent tell her? There are not many jobs for young chil- 
dren which give them a chance to learn. At present the superintendent 
has to depend on hit or miss information that comes her way. She cannot 
specialize in children's difficulties. 

Information about the opportunity for training in jobs for children should 
be at the disposal of every superintendent who handles the placement of 
children. 

Every day boys and girls of 16, 17, and 18 are coming into the public 
employinent bureaus, after months and years of puttering in blind alley 
jobs, and asking to be placed as learners in positions offering advancement. 

One of the registration cards bears the name of a young worker of 17. 
For two years she had been working in an establishment where her only job 
was "putting on tassels." "I don't want to do that any more," she said. 
"I want to learn something so I can get ahead." 

A boy of 18 came into one of the offices. He had been working for three 
years in one of the metal trades. The metal trades are highly specialized, 
and in all this time he had been kept on one process. So at 18 he found 
himself no better oflf than when he started three years before. There are 
shops which ofTcr training on more than one machine, so that by 21 this 
boy could have been a well-equipped workman if he had been started right. 

Our young workers are wasting time which they cannot afford to waste. 
The public employment bureaus are forced to treat this vital problem on the 
side while finding jobs for adult workers. 

It is impossible to get the right kind of information about jobs for children 
when the time is filled with the demands of older workers. 

Placing juveniles is a different problem from placing adults. It is not 
enough to find a job for a boy. You must find a job that offers training and a 
chance to get ahead. It is not enough to find a job that offers training. It 
must be the right kind of training for that particular boy. 

If the state of New York allows children to leave school at 14 to go to work, 
it should make sure that they get into the kind of work that will make them 
valuable citizens. 

Left alone, the child will choose the job which offers the most money, re- 
gardless of whether or not it offers a chance to learn. When experience has 
taught him that this sort of work is getting him nowhere, he is no better off, 
for he has no survey of the opportunities of industr>' in his city, and can only 
feel his way about. This drifting from one footless job to another kills 
ambition. 

So long as the state permits this waste of youth, the problem of adult 
unemplovTnent will be aggravated. 



320 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

CLOTHES AND THE BODY 

CHARLOTTE GIBBS BAKER 

The desire for protection and for decoration if not modesty led savage 
man to clothe himself. The growth of civiUzation, with increasing inter- 
course between men, with the development of industries, the extension 
of luxury, and finally the rise of fashion, has made the problem more 
and more complicated. The original idea of protection has often been 
forgotten and the body has been made to serve as a mere lay figure to 
display the creations of the costume designer, even being distorted to 
meet the pecuhar fancy of the time. 

From time to time in the past, attempts have been made to regulate 
by law the extravagance and extremes of dress, to emphasize, through 
dress, class distinctions and even moral status, but no such attempt has 
been made to protect the health of the individual. In the last half 
century in this country there have been a number of attempts at dress 
reform, notably that at the World's Fair in Chicago. These have 
failed to produce any marked efifect, usually because of the extreme 
nature of the change suggested and the lack of artistic feeling in the 
designs offered. No doubt these movements have had some influence, 
but education, beginning with the child and continuing through Ufe, 
rather than sudden dress reform seems to be the hope of better American 
dress. 

Men, because of the demands of their business, have developed for 
themselves a costume which changes Httle and has utility rather than 
beauty for its commendation. In recent years as women have entered 
the industries and the professions and have taken up various activities 
outside the home, there has been a tendency toward a standardization 
of their dress. It is only quite recently that the subject of clothing 
has been taken up seriously in the schools. 

Notwithstanding the fact that the last twenty years have seen an 
improvement in many ways, there is still room for betterment of dress. 
Good walking shoes have been available for some years, but the fashions 
of the last year have departed far from suitability in this respect. Cor- 
sets have been improved and the natural lines of the figure have been 
more closely conformed to, but lacing has not entirely disapppcared. 
Skirts suitable for walking have too often been accompanied by waists 
not suitable for street wear. Yet through all the freaks of fashion the 



1916] CLOTHES AND THE BODY 321 

intelligent woman who wishes to dress appropriately for work or street 
may fmd styles which permit her to do so. 

From an artistic standpoint dress should conform to the general lines 
of the body, suggesting rather than outlining the more j^rominent curves. 
Fashion in its everlasting search for novelty of silhouette often dis- 
regards these natural lines, though usually some part of the figure is 
outlined. Ornament should be used to decorate construction; too often 
decoration overweighs the construction. As the requirements of modesty 
are conventional, one should conform to the best convention of the time. 

To meet the requirements of hygiene, clothing must regulate the body 
temperature, must provide for ventilation, for the evaporation of moist- 
ure, and must not burden or restrict the body in any way. The design 
of the clothing, the number of layers, and the quaUty of the material 
all have their function in determining the hygienic quality of a costume. 
Upon the outer garment falls the greater responsibib'ty for the artistic 
effect, and the modesty of the costume. On the undergarments must 
fall much of the responsibihty for the hygiene of dress. The requisites 
of the outer garment are much discussed; those of the undergarment 
are more frequently neglected. 

Each of the fibers used for clothing has characteristics which affect 
its suitability for use next the skin. Wool and silk are poor conductors 
of heat. Because of the nature of the fiber when woven, wool holds 
much air in the meshes of the fabric, thus adding warmth to the gar- 
ment. Although silk may be woven to hold air, it is not ordinarily so 
woven. Wool does not wash easily, and with continual washing shrinks 
and becomes hard, thus closing up the air spaces and preventing the 
access of the air to the skin. Wool is often irritating to the skin, and 
in overheated buildings, trains, and cars, is too warm for many people 
in active hfe. Silk is much pleasanter in feel than wool, and does not 
shrink. Although both silk and wool absorb water readily without 
seeming wet because the water is taken into the fiber, yet the nature 
of the fabrics as a rule prevents their taking up any large amount 
without becoming very wet. 

Cotton and hnen are cool fabrics because they conduct heat away 
from the body. When woven in the plain weave the fabrics hold little 
air. Neither of these materials has the quality of absorbing moisture 
into the fiber to such an extent as wool or silk, therefore when they 
absorb water they feel wet. Linen, particularly, becomes clammy and 
uncomfortable. The great advantage of these materials for garments 



322 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

next the skin is the ease ^vith which they may be washed and the fact 
that they may be boiled. 

The structure of a fabric affects materially the suitability for under- 
garments. Knit fabrics have more meshes than woven ones and thus 
allow the passage of air to ventilate the skin. There is always air in 
the meshes, making them partial non-conductors of heat and thus adding 
to the warmth of the garment. The meshes also absorb moisture and 
hold it until it has a chance to evaporate. The efhciency of cotton, 
linen and silk is thus greatly increased by being knit rather than woven; 
with wool the advantage is not as marked since the woven material has 
many air spaces. 

A mixture of wool and cotton combine the advantages of both. It 
does not irritate as does all wool, is not so warm, washes better, and, 
it may be added, is not so expensive as all wool. Wool and silk is a 
very pleasant combination but the cost is greater. Linen in the mesh 
weave is particularly desirable for hot weather, as it feels cool and 
does not become clammy. 

Several layers of light weight clothing hold air between them and are 
warmer than a single layer of heavier material. WTien the warm layer 
of air next the body is changed heat is taken away from the body; there- 
fore the clothing must prevent too rapid passage of air. On the other 
hand a garment impervious to air, worn either outside or as under- 
clothing soon becomes uncomfortable unless it is loose enough to allow 
air to pass under it. Rubber coats and boots are exceedingly uncom- 
fortable on a warm day, and even leather shoes are far from ideal in this 
respect. 

The amount and character of the clothing worn must be determined 
by the individual, and will be influenced by many factors. Extreme 
youth and old age require more clothing than active middle life. The 
individual in poor health must be more protected than the well. Those 
living and working in heated buildings must dress accordingly, adding 
the necessary clothing for protection when going out. The calendar 
was formerly considered an unfailing informant as to the time to put 
on and take oil the woolens, but fortunately for most of us it has lost 
its prestige. 

Heat is produced by the body, and if this heat is unnecessarily 
wasted unnecessary strain is put on the body, making one more suscep- 
tible to illness. On the other hand too much clothing makes one sensi- 
tive to exposure to cold. Low shoes and thin stockings arc not suitable 



1916] AN ICELESS REFRIGERATOR 323 

for zero weather, but a neck swathed in furs on a moderate day is little 
better. No definite rules may be laid down, but well informed common 
sense must be the guide. 

Freshness of outer garments is desirable for aesthetic effect; clean- 
ness of undergarments is imperative for hygienic reasons. As the skin 
can not perform its functions with clogged pores, so the clothing next 
the skin can not perform its functions with clogged meshes. 

A physician of forty years ago tells of a woman who came to her 
office shivering with cold under seven petticoats. "Poor thing," the 
physician comments, "of course she could not keep warm, her body was 
so burdened carrying all those clothes it had no energy left to keep her 
warm." The modern union suit, with its even covering over all the 
body is a great improvement over two piece garments adding extra layers 
about the overclad waist. Tights or knickerbockers give much better 
protection than petticoats. The one piece dress distributes the weight 
and does not overburden the waist or hips. The corset is still not ideal, 
but is much better now than in times past. 

When all women understand all the discomforts caused by bad shoes, 
and the joy of comfort in walking, perhaps the day will come when 
fashion can not lead us so far astray in this respect. Our ideas of beauty 
in footwear sorely need readjustment. We have discovered the beauty 
of the natural figure, perhaps we shall discover that of the perfect fo. t. 
The shoe manufacturer has an opportunity for profitable missionary 
work. 

The day may come when perfect body freedom and natural grace 
will be more admired than false silhouettes, when beautiful fabrics will 
be made into suitable clothing expected to last for a time, and women 
will spend some of the time now wasted in endless shopping in develop- 
ing and keeping their bodies in perfect condition. 



AN ICELESS REFRIGERATOR 

A very satisfactory device which may be made at home for use in 
hot weather is the refrigerator that depends for its coolness upon the 
evaporation of water from the covering of cloth that by means of wicks 
is kept moist from a pan of water resting on the top. 



324 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[June 



On a dry hot day a temperature of 50°F. may be obtained in this 
box, that may be made in the following way as described by the De- 
partment of Agriculture: 

Make a screened case 3^ feet high with the other dimensions 12 by 
15 inches. Use a solid top and place on this a shallow water pan 12 
inches square, or fit the pan closely into the opening of the top frame 
and support it by 1-inch cleats fastened to the inside of the frame. 
Place two movable shelves in the frame, 12 to 15 inches apart. If the 

refrigerator is to be used in- 
doors have the whole thing stand- 
ing in a large pan to catch any 
drip. The pans and case may be 
painted white, allowed to dry, 
and then enameled. A covering 
of white canton flannel extending 
to the lower edge should be made 
to fit the frame. Have the 
smooth side out and button the 
covering on the frame with buggy 
or automobile curtain hooks and 
eyes, arranged so that the door 
may be opened without unfasten- 
ing these hooks. This can be 
done easily by putting one row 
of hooks on the edge of the door 
near the latch and the other just 
opposite the opening with the 
hem on each side extended far 
enouch to cover the crack at the edge of the door to keep out the warm, 
outside air and retain the cooled air. This dress or covering must be 
hooked around the top edge also. Two double strips one-half the 
width of each side should be sewed on the top of each side and allowed 
to extend over about 2^ or 3 inches in the pan of water. Place the 
refrigerator in a shady place where air will circulate around it freely. 
If buttons and buttonholes are used on the canton flannel instead of 
buggy hooks, the cost should not exceed 85 cents. 




Iceleu Refrigerator 



EDITORIAL 

The Annual Meeting. All those who were fortunate enough to attend 
the meeting of the American Home Economics Association at Ithaca 
three years ago, or who have experienced the gracious hospitality of 
Cornell at the Graduate School of Home Economics, or at other times, 
must gladly have welcomed the announcement made in the April 
Bulletin of the Association that the annual meeting is again to be held 
there with Miss Van Rensselaer, the President of the Association, and 
Miss Rose, joint-Head of the Home Economics Department, as 
hostesses. 

To others may we say that the charm of the region, the campus 
unrivaled for natural beauty, the opportunity for dehghtful excursions, 
should prove an additional inducement to attend even though the chief 
attraction be the opportunity to become acquainted with the workings 
of one of the most successful departments of Home Economics, to avail 
one's self of the resources offered by Cornell University, and to gain the 
inspiration that comes from meeting one's fellow workers. 

Since the meeting is to be held from June 28 to July 3, it will be 
possible to go directly from Ithaca to the convention of the N. E. A. in 
New York City, July 1-8. 

A Personal Opinion. The editor of this Journal believes that the 
ideal method is to remove from the home every possible bit of work 
that may be done outside it, though she realizes that at present this is 
not practical for a large part of the population and that for some it may 
not now be even desirable. 

She believes that one purpose of the American Home Economics 
Association should be the working out of plans by which more of the 
household processes may be carried on in a community way. The 
cooperative laundry at Chatfield, Minnesota, offers a good example of 
this kind of work. She believes that raising the standard of bakeries 
and manufacturing plants both in regard to sanitation and to quality 
of food products is even more valuable work than instructing house- 
keepers how to prepare their own products. 

325 



326 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS IJUUC 

She was consequently somewhat disturbed to find a whole column 
in one of our city newspapers devoted to a quotation from the students' 
work on the "comparative cost of homemade and commercially pre- 
pared foods" that was published in the March Journal, with a definite 
conclusion in favor of the home prepared foods, though the contribution 
was guarded by the statement that "the data given and the, conclu- 
sions drawn in this partial report are valuable largely because of the 
suggestions which they offer for more thorough tests along the same 
lines." We need much more experimental work and more consideration 
of the various economic factors involved before we are ready to draw 
conclusions. Because we need these experiments the Joltrnal has wel- 
comed and published contributions on tliis subject and will continue to 
do so in order that we may have a basis for judgment. Later we shall 
call attention to some of the difficulties involved in formulating conclu- 
sions and to the fallacies inherent in some of the articles. 

Standardized Dress. Many of us can recall numerous efforts 
more or less sporadic toward the reform of women's dress. These have 
usually been based on the principles of greater freedom of movement 
and the requirements of hygiene. Some of the dresses proposed have 
of necessity been doomed to failure because of the complete neglect of 
the elements of beauty; while others have been fashioned with due re- 
gard to line and proportion as well as to comfort. Today attempts to 
standardize dress emphasize additional reasons that have not been so 
often urged: the economic waste involved in the various forms of com- 
petition in dress, in the frequent change of style, and in over-emphasis 
upon adornment; and the economic hardships enforced upon the worker 
through the extremely seasonal character of the women's garment- 
making industry, the low wages, and the bad sanitary conditions, due 
partly to risks that the manufacturer is forced to assume. 

Perhaps these social reasons may be more effective in bringing about 
reform than has been the personal appeal. Certainly there is a growing 
feeling that in some way the more evident evils at least should be cor- 
rected. The Home Economics Department of the General Federa- 
tion of Woman's Clubs in an article entitled "Clothes and the Woman" 
in the January number of the Federation Monthly suggests that there be 
put upon the market six or eight different standard styles of street 
suits from which each may select the kind best adapted to her special 
needs. Having purchased this becoming suit of good material one 
should be able to wear it until it is worn out. instead of discarding it 
within a year or less because it has gone out of fashion. This plan deals 



1916] COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 327 

with street clothes only. It seems sensible and should receive careful 
consideration. 

Another solution is proposed by Miss Ronzone of the Home Eco- 
nomics Department of the University of Missouri. Making her ap- 
peal largely to the social responsibility of women, she suggests the adop- 
tion for all costumes of one design, modified slightly to suit individual 
types. She has devised such a dress that is adapted to different mate- 
rials and that has proved satisfactory' with many who have tried it. 
Whether one style of dress for all women and all occasions is practi- 
cable or desirable may seem a question with many, but it should not be 
answered without serious consideration of Miss Ronzone's work and 
her contribution to the dress problem. 



COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 

In looking over the article "The College Girl's Wardrobe," appearing 
in the April, 1916, issue of the Journal, three things occur to me as re- 
quiring careful consideration by anyone using such a budget as a basis 
of expenditure. 

The first of these is the entire absence of any allowance for the up- 
keep of the wardrobe. It is surely proper to charge up to one's clothing 
account the necessary expense of keeping the wardrobe in wearing 
condition. For instance, the cost of repairs is an appreciable item in 
the matter of shoes. On averaging personal accounts kept for several 
years, I find that the cost of repairs on shoes of good material is approxi- 
mately 30 per cent of the original cost. That is, a pair costing $6 
will, before they are ready for the discard, need repairs averaging about 
$1.80; and the cheaper the shoes, the relatively greater the price of 
repairs. 

In figuring upon the cost of dresses made at home, it seems to me 
that too little has been allowed for the necessary findings. As a rule 
(referring again to an average of several years' accounts), the extras, 
such as thread, pattern, bindings, buttons, and simple trimmings, are 
about 12 per cent of the price of material for winter (woolen) dresses 
and from 20 to 25 per cent of the cost of cotton materials. These esti- 
mates are based on clothes of about the same quality as that indicated 
in the college girl's wardrobe. 

Another thing which should be considered in a wardrobe budget is 
the proportion to be spent for the different articles. While I am not 



328 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [JURC 

familiar with prices in the West, it occurs to me that a coat costing S30 — 
or one costing $18 — is somewhat out of proportion to undervests at 8§ 
cents apiece or stockings at 12| cents a pair. Would not a better level 
of expenditure be represented by a coat costing $25 — or $15— putting 
the money thus saved into underwear and hosiery of better quality? 

A college girl gives her clothes fairly hard wear, so it behooves her to 
consider with care the expense of repairs; and she should certainly avoid 
being a "whited sepulcher" of shoddiness in underclothing. 

Esther Swartz. 

THE SMITH-HUGHES BILL 

This note, in answer to some of the objections to the Smith-Hughes Bill as it stands, 
should be read as a supplement to Miss Kinne's article, in the April number of the 
Journal, on Terminology and the Smith-Hughes Bill. — Thk Editor. 

The friends of the Smith-Hughes bill feel that it is best to pass it 
with as few amendments as possible. The pressure of business in both 
the Senate and the House makes its passage somewhat doubtful, and it 
seems probable that if it does not go through at this session of Congress 
the work will need to be done over again from the very beginning. 

It seems to be the general opinion of those who have studied the 
matter, that an amendment is desirable in regard to the Commission 
that would put the bill into operation. 

It is the opinion of a number of teachers of Home Economics that 
the bill should be amended in regard to its Home Economics provisions. 
An amendment has already been proposed includii:ig a clause authorizing 
the federal government to provide money for training teachers of general 
Home Economics. Such an extension of federal control over state 
affairs would arouse much discussion in both the Senate and the House. 
The bill would seem to be \visely framed to avoid such a contingency. 
The original commission felt that most states have excellent provision 
for the training of teachers for the general phases of household economics 
or household arts. 

Many experts in the field of education and many Home Economics 

teachers approve this bill as it stands. It would seem probable that 

the training of expert teachers for the more technical phases of the 

household arts would act as an impetus to the general leaching of the 

subject, and as a spur to the general teacher. Surely, Home I'Aonomics 

has so established itself that it need not fear tlie development of a new 

phase in its own field. 

Hklkn Kinne, 
Chairman of I^gislativf Commilire 
American Home Economics Association 



1916] THE QUESTION BOX 329 

THE QUESTION BOX 

Conducted by a committee of the Science Section of the American Home Economics 
Association. Chairman, Prof. /\my Louise Daniels, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis. 
Questions may be sent directly to Miss Daniels. 

Question: The following statements from American Cookery (Ma.Tch, 
1916) do not accord with what I have been teaching. Will you state 
your opinion? 

Oatmeal should never be cooked until it is mushy. Steel-cut oats are good 
for the reason that they do not form a sticky paste; they should be cooked 
no more than six minutes. Stir the oatmeal into boiling water and let it cook 
until it thickens, then set it aside to simmer for live or six minutes and you 
will have a most perfectly prepared breakfast cereal. 

When oatmeal is so thoroughly cooked that it becomes a mush it will roll 
up into little balls in the colon, and produce one of the worst forms of con- 
stipation. For many years, some of the best speciaHsts have forbidden oat- 
meal because of this fact. 

No breakfast cereal should be cooked over eight minutes, because it is im- 
portant to carry some raw starch into the lower part of the intestine, and this 
is done when cereals are not thoroughly cooked. 

Raw food faddists have made some remarkable cures. A number of people 
have been practically snatched from the edge of the grave by living on a raw 
diet instead of the one they had previously followed. 

However, there is a happy medium — it is not necessary to live on raw oat- 
meal and raw potatoes in order to get starch uncooked. The six-minute 
cooking rule gives a palatable, hygienic form of oatmeal and other cereals, 

Answer: The clipping certainly states some surprising facts, if one 
may call them such. Starch which is uncooked, or from which that 
something which surrounds the starch grain has not been removed either 
partly or wholly, cannot be digested, that is, by the enzymes of the ali- 
mentary- tract of man. The bacteria, however, may act upon it in the 
lower bowel causing much discomfort and more or less digestive dis- 
turbance (Reichert, E. T. : The Differentiation and Specificity of Starches 
in Relation to Genera, Species, etc., Part H, ,160, 1913, p. 80). In the 
raw steel-cut oats there are many starch grains that are uninjured; 
unless the temperature is sufficiently high, and the high temperature is 
sustained sufficiently long to destroy the continuity of the coating of the 
starch grains, these cannot be digested. Furthermore, unless the cereal 
is cooked so that the cells of which it is made up can be separated by the 
various chewing and digestive processes much of the food value will 



330 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Junc 

be lost, for a considerable portion of the food materials Avill be undigested 
and therefore unabsorbed. Eight minutes is not sufficiently long for 
cooking those cereals which are not previously cooked, or very finely 
di\-ided. (U. S. Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment Sta- 
tion Bulletin No. 202; The Digestibility of Starch of Different Sorts as 
affected by Cooking, Edna D. Day.) 

Question: How can the teacher make the housekeeping part of a cook- 
ing lesson interesting to girls fourteen years old who have had cooking 
lessons for four or five years? 

Answer: Why spend so much time on cookery when there are so many 
other important phases to be considered? If it must be cookery, 
why not consider cookery from the standpoint of food values, market- 
ing, amount that should be spent for food, planning, preparation, and 
serving of meals? One might introduce much house cleaning to get 
the house ready for a party if one wished to follow the old fashion. 
However, if it were my class, I would change the course and have the food 
work incidental in a course which dealt with the house and its structure, 
including heating, lighting, and cleaning. Quite young cliildren can be 
interested in these subjects if they are rightly presented. 

A Correction. Miss Daniels sends the following correction. We 
regret the error that arose from the misreading of her manuscript. — 
The Editor. 

In the question column of the May Journal^ under the question 
"Why do breakfast foods disagree with some children?" the follo\\'ing 
statement is made on page 249: "By longer cooking the starch is not 
only more thoroughly cooked, but the starch cells of the cereal are 
more easily separated or broken apart when it is chewed." It should 
read: "By longer cooking the starch is not only more thoroughly 
cooked, but the cells of the cereal are more easily separated or broken 
apart when it is chewed." This is perhaps a minor point, but starch 
cells do not exist, and furthermore, the object in cooking the cereal a 
long time is in part to separate the cells of the grain as above stated. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Any book or periodical mcntioDed in this department may be obtained through the 
JotnuiAL OP Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 



Good Taste in Home Furnishing. By Maud 
Ann Sell and IIentiy Blackman Sell. 
New York: John Lane Company, 1915, 
pp. 140. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, 
$1.33. 

A valuable addition to the list of books 
helpful to the average person who desires a 
home of good taste but who has not the 
knowledge of those principles which are the 
foundation of such a home. 

The importance of balance and harmony 
is discussed in a remarkably clear way and 
illustrated with attractive little black and 
white drawings. The value of having only 
necessary furniture and the fitness to pur- 
pose of that furniture as well as its harmony 
with the structural lines of the room is well 
emphasized. A very definite basis for color 
schemes is also presented, as well as helpful 
suggestions concerning draperies from the 
viewpoint of design, arrangements and ap- 
propriateness of material. There is also an 
excellent chapter on the best way of lighting 
rooms for definite purposes. 

Inside the House of Good Taste. By Rich- 
ardson Wright. New York: McBride, 
Nast and Company, 1915, pp. 155. $1.50. 
By mail of the Journal, $1.64. 
The title fits extremely well the book ed- 
ited by Richardson Wright, editor of House 
and Garden . 1 1 is a book of many photographs 
which give us glimpses into the homes of 
people of good taste. These show, better 
than words can do, the essentiab which make 
rooms livable, also that quality, personality, 
which converts houses into homes. Each 
photograph is accompanied with a few words 
of criticism, calling attention to the espe- 
cially good features of the room and suggest- 
ing, when possible, improvements. 



A chapter is devoted to each of the prin- 
cipal rooms of the house, the arrangement of 
the furniture for comfort and convenience, 
and its harmony in style and fitness to pur- 
pose. 

A Guide to Laundry Work: a Manual for 
Home and School. By Mary D. Cham- 
bers. Boston: The Boston Cooking 
School Magazine Co., 1915, pp. 104. 
$0.75. By mail of the Journal, $0.80. 

/Vs a basic tc.xt-book for teachers and stu- 
dents in Laundering, the Guide to Laundry 
Work will be found very helpful. This book 
will appeal also to the scientific housewife 
of today, as it states the most essential knowl- 
edge and fine art of laundering in a concise 
and clear manner with the fundamental 
chemistry in a form easily grasped. 

The arrangement of the matter of the text 
proceeds in logical order from the first chap- 
ter, which deals with [)rocesses involved in 
cleansing and removing stains, to the last 
chapter which gives a detailed description and 
cost of appliances used in washing, drying 
and pressing. 

Prominent among the distinguishing 
features of the book are: 

(1) Time standards for ironing; to do the 
best work with the least effort and time is 
always the problem. 

(2) The page devoted to the subject of 
selling colors before washing colored mate- 
rials or restoration after washing. 

(3) The experiments on water, the mak- 
ing of soap, the testing for adulterations and 
defects of soap and soap powders. 

The well organized index and plain clear 
cut illustrations render this manual very us- 
able as a reference book and text-book. 

331 



332 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[June 



Chdnges in the Food Supply and their Relation 
to Nutrition. L. B. Mendel, New 
Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 
1916, pp. 61. Price $0.50. 

In this lecture, delivered before the Second 
Pan-American Scientific Congress at Wash- 
ington, D. C, in January, 1916, the author 
takes up a number of factors which in- 
fluence the supply of food energy and its 
availability where needed. Reference is 
made to the forecast by Sir William Crookes, 
in 1898, that the world's wheat supply would 
fail to meet the demand within 30 years and 
the author cites a number of factors which 
make such speculations futile, among them 
being increased acreage, impro\ed agricul- 
ture, and progress in nutrition and food 
chemistry. The various methods of food 
preservation, such as cold storage, desicca- 
tion, and food conservation, like the better 
utilization of by-products and new foods, 
are discussed at length with reference to 
their effect on food supply. In considering 
the importance of transportation in this 
connection it is stated that "the dev-elop- 
raent of commerce among nations having 
adequate means of communication has ren- 
dered the distribution of food materials 
easy and developed a sense of security 
(under normal conditions) against failure 
of food supplies. The growing organiza- 
tion of transportation facilities has encour- 
aged the introduction of dietary changes 
never thought possible or even contemplated 
a few generations ago." 

The author points out that, while the 
dietary habits of a community or nation 
may appear as fairly fixed from generation 
to generation, changes in eating habits are 
quite common, and gives as examples the 
increasing use of fresh fruits, sugar, edible 
fats, green vegetables, etc. 

Attention is called to the contributions 
of physiology and food chemistry to the 
problems of food supply, especially Uie 
knowledge of the importance of the so-called 
"accessory diet factors" or "vitamins" and 
the amino acid content of the protein.s. 
Speaking of the imiM^rtancc of improvt-mcnt 
of household science in a better understand- 



ing of the principles of human nutrition, 
the author says, "herein lies the significance 
of the notable 'home economics movement' 
of the present time. Nutrition and its 
relation to the food supply is in no small 
measure a problem of the home. Just as 
the lessons of modem science are permeating 
the practice of up-to-date agriculture, so 
they ought to influence and modify the 
performance of the household" The numer- 
ous footnote references throughout the 
volume add to its usefulness. 

Schools of To-morrow. By John Dewey 
and Evelyn Dewey. New York: E. P. 
Dutton and Company, 1915, pp. 316. 
$1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.61. 

Those who have read over and over again 
Dr. John Dewey's School and Society and 
whose educational ideals have been molded 
to a great extent by that book, have wel- 
comed this new work, written in collabora- 
tion with his daughter, that shows some 
ways in which the ideals of the former book 
have been worked out concretely in more 
and more schools. The schools used for 
illustration are selected from various parts 
of the country and include that of Mrs. 
Johnson of Fair Hope, Ala., the University 
School, Columbia, Mo., The Francis W. 
Parker School, and some of the public schools 
of Chicago; one of the Indianapolis public 
schools, and the well known Gar>' schools. 
The parent who wishes to gain an under- 
standing of the aim and purpose of the most 
modern type of education and an idea of 
what the school may become, will find this 
book most illuminating. Everj' teacher 
should read it not only for the information 
gained, but for the inspiration it will 
bring. 

The teacher of Home Flconomics will be 
especially interested in Chapters VII to X, 
dealing with the relation of the school to 
the community; the school as a social settle- 
ment; industry and education; democracy 
and education. The description of the work 
for girls and l>o>-s in In(liann|K)Ii3 in one 
of the [Mjoresl districts of the city, with the 
account of the influence that this school 



1916] BOOKS AND LITERATURE 333 

gained on the home and the community, city, is pointing the way toward the further 

marks an achievement that cannot fail to development of such cooperation, 

point the way to much greater opportunities One cannot close a review of this book 

for the Home Economics teacher than have witliout speaking of the great emphasis that 

yet been realized. Education through in- it places uf)on the relation of education to 

dustry is illustrated by the familiar work at democracy. 

Gary, by some of the Chicago public school "Theconventional type of education which 

work, and that of Cincinnati. In connec- trains children to docility and obedience, 

tion with the latter it is suggested that fac- to the careful performance of imposed tasks 

tories and stores will not be the only com- l>i:cause they are imposed, regardless of 

munity institutions that will furnish labo- "'^'^'''^ ^^^^V '*^^' ''^ s"'^<-'d ^o an autocratic 

ratories for the .school children of the city. ^"'^'^'^y- " " ' " ^'^ildren in school must be 



The city college, with its plan of giving the 



allowed freedom so that they will know what 
its use means when they become the control- 
home economics pupils practice in connec- ,5^^ ^ody, and they must be allowed to develop 
Uon with the city hospital, and the engi- active qualities of initiative, independence, 
neering and architecture students work in and resourcefulness, before the abuses and 
the machine shops and draft rooms of the failures of democracy will disappear " 

BOOKS RECEIVED 

Diet for Children. By Louise E. Hogan. Indianapolis: The Bobbs-Merrill Co., 1916, pp. 

160. $0.75. 
Fifty Years of Association Work Among Young Women 1866-1916. A History of Y. W. 

C. A. in the U. S. A. By Elizabeth Wilson. New York: Xation:il Board of Y. \V. C. 

A., 1916, pp. 402. $1.35. 
A History of the Family as a Social and Educational Institution. By Willystinc Cloodsell. 

New York: Macmillan Co., 1915, pp. 588. $2.00. 
The House on Henry Street. By Lillian D. Wald. New York: Henry Holt & Co., 1915, 

pp. 317. $2.00. 
How to Live. Rules for Healthful Living Based on Modern Science. By Irving Fisher & 

Eugene Lyman Eisk. New York: Funk & Wagnalls Co., ed. 3, 1915, pp. 345. $1.00. 
Journal of Proceedings atid Addresses of 53d Annual Meeting of the National Education 

Association of the U. S. held at Oakland, Cal., August 16-27, 1915. Secretary's Office, 

Ann Arbor, Mich, 1915, pp. 1193. 
Marvels of Our Bodily Dwelling. By Mary Wood-Allen. Philadelphia: The Vir Publishing 

Company, 1915, pp. 328. $1.20. 
Nutritional Physiology. By Percy G. Stiles. Philadelphia: W. B. Saunders Company, 

2d ed., 1915, pp. 288. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1.36. 
Old Age Poverty in Greenwich Village. By Mabel Louise Nassau. New York: Fleming H. 

Revell Co. (Greenwich House Series No. 6), 1915, pp. 105. $0.60. 
Painless Childbirth Euctocia and Nitrous Oxid-Oxygen Analgesia. By Carl H. Davis. Chi- 
cago: Forbes and Company, 1916, pp. 134. $1.00. 
The Physiology of Amino Acids. By Frank P. Underbill. New Haven: Yale University 

Press, 1915, pp. 169. $1.35. By mail of the Journal, $1.42. 
The Principles of Health Control. By Francis IM. Walters. New York: D. C. Heath & Co., 

1916, pp. 476. $1.50. 
A Study of Living Conditions of Self-Supporting Women in Nrw York City. By Esther 

Packard. New York: Metropolitan Board of the Young Women's Christian .Associa- 
tion, 1916, pp. 96. $0.25. 



334 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

What to Eat and Why. By G. Carroll Smith. PhUadelphia: 2d ed., 1915, pp. 377. $2.50. 

By mail of the Journal, $2.65. 
Your Baby: a Guide for Mothers. By Edith B. Lowry. Chicago: Forbes and Company, 

1915, pp. 254. $1.00. By mail of the Journal, $1.07. 



PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

A Woman's Clothing Budget: A little discussion on the proper expenditure of varying dress 
allowances. Wra. Filene's Sons Company, Boston, Mass. 

Clothes: A little book that looks the question of clothes squarely in the face. Personal 
Ser\'ice Bureau, Wm. Filene's Sons Company, Boston, Mass., pp. 23. 

Community Sickness Survey Rochester, N. Y. By Lee K. Frankel and Louis I. Dublin. 
Washington, D. C: Gov. Printing OflSce, 1916, pp. 16. $.05. Supt. of Documents 
(U. S. Public Health Service Reprint No. 326.) 

The Etiquette and Service of the Table. By the Dept. of Domestic Science of the Kansas 
State Agr. College, Manhattan, Kansas. Dept. of Printing, ed. 3 rev. and rewritten, 
1916, pp. 32. Bibliography. 

Fermented Milks. By L. A. Rogers. Washington, D. C: Government Printing Office, 
1916, pp. 31. Superintendent of Documents. U. S. Department of Agriculture Bul- 
letin 319. 

The Fireless Cooker ayid Its Uses. By Helen Canon and Lucile Brewer. Ithaca, N. Y.: 
N. Y. State College of Agr. at Cornell University, 1915, pp. 273-296. Bibliography. 
(Cornell Reading Courses, Farmhouse Series No. 9, vol. 4, No. 95) Free to residents of 
N. Y. State. 

The Life of Primitive Woman. By Blanche Evans Hazard. Ithaca, N. Y.: N. Y. State 
College of Agr. at Cornell University, 1915, pp. 201-256. Contains a list of references 
for programs. (Cornell Reading Courses, Rural Life Series No. 11, vol. 4, No. 91) free 
to residents of N. Y. State. 

National Education Association Yearbook and List of Active Members. Year Dec. 31, 1914- 
Dec. 31, 1915. Secretary's Office, Ann Arbor, Mich., 1915, pp. 375. 

The Nutritive Value of Boiled Milk. By Amy Daniels and Sylvia Stuessy with the cooper- 
ation of Emma Francis. Chicago: .\merican Medical .Association, 1916, pp. 10. (Re- 
printed from the .Vmcrican Journal of Diseases of Children, January, 1916.) 

Social Service Organization in Ohio. Columbus, Ohio: Div. Public Health Education and 
Tuberculosis of Ohio State Board of Health, 1915, pp. 289. 

Some Food Facts. By Mary S. Rose. New York City: Teachers College, 1914, pp. 6. 
Technical Education Bulletin no. 27. $0.05. 

Standards for Milk. By John F. Anderson. Washington, D. C: Government Printing 
Office, 1916, pp. 8. U. S. Public Health Service Reprint no. 318. 

Study Outlines of Domestic Economy Course. Austin, Te.\as: University of Texas, 1015, 
pp. 17. Bulletin of the University of Texas, 1915, no. 55, October 1, 1015. 

A Survey of Your Household Finances. By Benjamin R. .\ndrcws. New York City: Teach- 
ers College, 1914, pp. 16. Technical Kducation Bulletin no. 26. $0.10. 

Tentative Course of Study in Household Arts for the Seventh and F.i%hth Grades Speyer School 
1914-15. New York City: Teachers College, 1915, pp. 31. Technical Education 
Bulletin no. 29. $0.20. 



1916] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOitE ECONOMICS 335 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODIC.\L LITEFLVTURE 
ContributioQs to the Bibliography are welcomed. Please send material to the Journal. 

Foods and Cookery 

The Ripening of Apples. Jour. Amrr. Med. Assoc, 66 (1916), no. 9, pp. 657, 658. A. 
summary and digest of data. 

Maple Sugar: \ Unique .\merican Dainty. E. G. Chapin, Home Progress, 5 (1916), 
no. 7, pp. 307-310. 

Apple Butter. A Food of the Old Regime. Marion Evans, Forecast II (1916), no. 2, 
pp. 112-1 14, fig. 1. This article gives a description of the method of preparing apple butter, 
used by the Pennsylvania Dutch farmers. 

Picked Without Planting. \ Study of Edible Weeds. Mary D. Chambers, Forecast, 
11 (1916), no. 3, pp. 179-184, figs. 4. This article describes a number of weeds which may 
be utilized for food purposes. 

Cocoa and Chocolate. The One-time Luxuries That Have Become Staples. J. B. 
Harrington, Forecast 11 (1916), no. 2, pp. 93-98, figs. 6. 

Economy in Eggs. Mary D. Chambers, Forecast, 11 (1916), no. 3, pp. 192- 193, fig. 1. 

Modem Bread-Making. The Loaf Untouched by Human Hands in the Process of 
Making. Sci. Amtr., 114 (1916), no. 11, pp. 282, 283, figs. 6. 

Conserving the Egg Supply. M. E. McOuat, Forecast, 11 (1916), no. 3, pp. 185-191, 
figs. 5. 

Aluminium .\lloys and their Use for Canteens and Cooking Utensils. J. Boes and H. 
Weyland, Ztschr. Untersiuh. Nahr. u. Gemissmll., 30 (1915), no. 8, pp. 300-305. E.xpt. 
Sta. Rcc. 34 (1916), no. 3, p. 257. 

The Water Content of Meat Products. E. Seel, Chem. Ztg., 39 (1915), no. 66, pp. 409, 
410. Expt. Sta. Rcc. 34 (1916), no. 4, p. 365. A controversial article. 

Army Biscuit Recipes. L. M. Babcock, Jour. Roy. Army Med. Corps, 23 (1914), no. 4, 
pp. 448-450. 

Banana Meal from Jamaica. Bid. Imp. Insl. [London], 13 (1915), no. 2, pp. 200, 201. 

Baking Qualities of Flours from Grades of \\'heat from the Canadian Western Provinces. 
R. Harcourt, Jour. Soc. Chem. Indus., 34 (1915), no. 15, pp. 821, 822. 

Farinaceous Milks. Gobert, Ann. Falsif., 8 (1915), no. 79-80, pp. 165-170. 

Baking Without Grain Flour. W. Ostwald and A. Riedel, Chem. Ztg., 39 (1915), no. 
85-86, pp. 537, 538, figs. 5. E.xpt. Sta. Rcc. 34 (1916), no. 4, p. 365. 

The Chemistry of Flesh Foods. II-I\', The Composition and Nutritive Value of the 
Retail Cuts of Mutton and Lamb. A. M. Wright, Trans, and Proc. Xrd' Zeal. Inst., 47 (1914), 
pp. 569-572. 

The Composition of Frozen Oranges and Lemons. H. D. Young, Jour. Indus, atul Engin. 
Chem., 7 (1915), no. 12, pp. 1038-1041. 

Composition of Corn (Maize) Meal Manufactured by Different Processes and the Influ- 
ence of Composition on the Keeping Qualities. \. L. Winton, W. C. Burnet, and J. H. 
Bornmann, U. S. Dept. Agr. Bill. 215 (1915), pp. 31. 

Report on Bread Wrapping. S. P. Sadtler, Proc. Nat. Assoc. Master Bakers, 16 (1915), 
pp. 161-193. 

A Fair Trial for Oleomargarine. .\. M. Goudiss, Forecast, 11 (1916), no. 1, pp. 10-16, 
figs. 5. 



336 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

Foods That Are Marketed in Small Packages. — Advantages : Cleanliness, Security because 
of Makers' Reputation, Notice of Adulterations on Labels and Convenience in Handling by 
Housekeepers. Disadvantages: Increase in Cost, Misleading Containers — Reasons Dis- 
cussed. J. P. Street, Modern Hospital, 5 (1915), no. 3, pp. 168-171. 

Nutrition 

The Nature of the Dietary Deficiencies of Rice. E. V. McCollum and Marguerite Davis, 
Jour. Biol. Chem., 23 (1915), no. 1, pp. 181-230, figs. 42. 

The Essential Factors in the Diet During Growth. E. V. McCollum and Marguerite 
Davis, Jour. Biol. Chem., 23 (1915), no. 1, pp. 231-246, figs. 12. 

The Cause of the Loss of Nutritive Efficiency of Heated Milk. E. V. McCollum and 
Marguerite Da\as, Jour. Biol. Chem., 23 (1915), no. 1, pp. 247-254, figs. 6. 

The Injurious Effect of an Exclusive Oat Diet, Leading to an Acid Poisoning. A. Morgan 
and C. Beger, Hoppe-Seyler's Ztschr. Physiol. Chem., 94 (1915), no. 5-6, pp. 324-336. Expt. 
Sta. Rec. 34 (1916), no. 4, p. 366. 

The Metabolic Relarionship of the Proteins to Glucose. — III, Glucose Formation from 
Human Proteins. N. VV. Janney and N. R. Blatherwick, Jour. Biol. Chem., 23 (1915), no. 1, 
pp. 77-80. 

Experimental Treatment of Human Beri-beri with Constituents of Rice Polishings. R. 
R. WiUiams and N. M. Saleeby, Phillipine Jour. Sci., 10 (1915), no. 2, pp. 99-118, pis. 2. 

A Respiratory Chamber for Small Animals. A. C. KoUs and A. S. Lovenhart, Amer. 
Jour. Physiol., 39 (1915), no. 1, pp. 67-76, figs. 8. 

A Comparison of Methods for Determining the Respiratory Exchange of Man. T. M. 
Carpenter, Carnegie Inst. Washington Pub. 216, pp. 265, figs. 72, pi. 1. 

Changes in the Hydrogen Ion Concentration of the Blood Produced by Pulmonary Venti- 
lation. T. H. Milroy, Quart. Jour. Expt. Physiol., 8 (1914), no. 2-3, pp. 141-153. 

Energy Transformation During Horizontal Walking. F. G. Benedict and H. Mursch- 
hauser, Carnegie Inst. Washington Pub. 231, pp. 100, figs. 6, pi. 1. 

Some Observations Further Incriminating Sugar Cane Products as the Main Cause of 
Pellagra in the South. R. Blosser, South Med. Jour., 8 (1915), no. 1, pp. 33-36. 

Nutrient Enemas. V. Scheel and E. Begtrup, Ugeskr. Ldger, 77 (1915), no. 14, pp. 543- 
557; abs. in Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 64 (1915), no. 21, p. 1804. 

Some Studies on Sugar in Infant Feeding. L. Porter and C. H. Dunn, Amer. Jour. 
Diseases Children, 10 (1915), no. 2, pp. 77-86. 

The Ferments of the Pancreas. — V, The Carbohydrate Ferments of Pancreatic Juice, 
J. Mellanby and V. J. Woolley, Jour. Physiol., 49 (1915), no. 4, pp. 246-264. 

The Alimentation of Man. P. Franz, Rev. Inst. Agr. Cataldn San Isidro, 63 (1914), nos. 
9, pp. 129-132; 11, pp. 168-172; 14, pp. 228-231; 15, pp. 246-248; 16, pp. 257-259; 17, pp. 
273-275; 19, pp. 309-313. Expt. Sla. Rec. 34 (1916), no. 3, p. 255. 

A Modern Small-sized Construction Camp with Some Costs on Feeding Men. E W. 
Robinson, Engin. and Contract., 43 (1915), no. 14, pp. 318-320, figs. 1. 

Soup Kitchens. M. Rubner, Hyg. Rundschau, 25 (1915), no. 9, pp. 309-315; abs. in Expt. 
Sta. Rec, ii (1915), no. 5, p. 462. The nutritive and energy values of some dietaries 
commonly furnished pwjor people at small cost are di-scussed. 

A Penny Lunch. Sarah W. Maury and Lena L. Tachau, Louisville: 1915, pp. 64, pis. 2. 

Spending the Noon Quarter. J. B. Harrington, Forecast, 11 (1916), no. 3, pp. 194-199, 
fig. 1. Suggestions are given as to how the money sjjcnt for lunches may be best invested. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The Meeting at Urbana. A goodly num- 
ber of Home Economics people gathered 
at the University of Illinois April 18 to20 
to attend the meeting of the American 
Chemical Society that for the first time 
ofifered a definite Home Economics pro- 
gram for part of its biological section meet- 
ing. 

Papers were presented by Dr. Ruth 
Wheeler on A Study of Carbohydrates as 
Milk Modifiers and Dr. Louise Stanley on 
The Occurrence of Crcatin in the Urine 
of Children. Dr. Emily C. Seaman of 
Teachers College gave a Report of a Sur- 
vey of the Food Conditions at Sing Sing 
Prison and read a paper on The Relation 
of Biological Cheniistry to Problems of the 
Community. Mr. Edwin Lefevre presented 
a Bacteriological Study of Hamburger 
Steak. Mr. H. L. Lang with others gave 
a paper on Cleaning Silver by Contact with 
Aluminum in Alkaline Solution, and Iron 
Rust and Its Removal. Miss Elizabeth 
W. Miller read a paper on Solution of Anti- 
mony from Some Enameled Cooking Uten- 
sils. Professor Bancroft of Cornell Uni- 
versity gave an informal discussion of 
Washing and Cleaning, Whipped Cream, 
and Mayonnaise. 

Besides the meetings there was a delight- 
ful luncheon on Wednesday noon at the 
Champaign County Country Club, given 
by the ladies of Urbana, a reception at the 
Woman's Building, a luncheon given to 
the Home Economics visitors by the House- 
hold Department of the University, and 
a subscription dinner at the Masonic Temple. 



Conference of Home Economics Exten- 
sion Workers. The leaders in Home Eco- 
nomics Extension Work in tlie Middle West 
met in Chicago at the Sherman Hotel, .April 
11 and 12, for conference. The meeting was 
called to order by C. B. Smith, chief of the 



OlBce nf E.xtcnsion Work, North and West, 
States Relations Service, U. S. Dcpt.of Agr., 
who presented Miss Ehjrence Ward, the new 
executive in the Office of Extension Work, 
North and West. Miss Ward presided at the 
various sessions. The states represented 
were: Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, 
Missouri, Ohio, Wisconsin, and Pennsyl- 
vania. The extension work carried on in 
each of these states was reported in detail in 
most cases by the head of the Home Eco- 
nomics Department and the state leaders in 
Home Economics Extension. 

In the majority of the states the work in 
movable schools is especially well developed 
and this is supplemented by club work of 
various types. 

Considerable interest was manifested 
in the possibilities of women county agents 
and two out of the three working in the 
Middle Western States were presented: 
Miss Benefiel, from Kankakee County, 
Illinois, and Miss Pettit from Erie County, 
New York. 

Exhibits of working equipment from the 
dififerent states were shown and explained 
on Tuesday evening. 

\\'ednesday afternoon, the work carried 
on by the Home Economics Division of 
the States Relations Service was discussed 
by Dr. Langworthy, Miss Hunt and Miss 
Bailey. Miss Ward told of the extension 
work in the South and Dr. True explained 
the development and limitations of the 
extension work as carried on under the 
Smith-Lever Act. The meeting closed with 
the brief reports of committees appointed 
to summarize the discussions of work of 
the states represented. 



New England Extension Workers. The 
third annual meeting of the Home Economics 
Section of the New England Extension 
Workers was held in Boston, March 2 and 

337 



338 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



Qime 



3 with Miss Laura Comstock of the Massa- 
chusetts Agricultural College as chairman. 
An extension worker from each of the New 
England states was present and gave a 
five-minute report of the work in her state. 
Miss ^Imnie Price, the lately appointed 
woman worker of Hampden County, Massa- 
chusetts, told of her e.xperience during the 
past year. 

Mrs. Julian Dimock of Vermont and 
Miss Maud Hayes of Connecticut spoke 
of the value of standards in the judging of 
products. 

Better school children, with the idea of 
giving attention to the noon lunch, was the 
topic by Miss Sayles. 

Miss Florence Ward, Dr. True and Pro- 
fessor Clinton from Washington were present 
at one meeting. 

The following score cards were agreed 
upon to be tested out by the different mem- 
bers to see whether they were workable 
ones or not. 

Bread: Proper size of loaf, 9 x 3^ x JJ 
External appearance 

Per Cent 
Color 1 

Size [ 15 

Shape J 
Crust 

O^P^ \ . ... 10 

Texture/ 

Crumb 

Color 5 

Grain 10 

Lightness 5 

Moisture 5 

Thoroughness of baking 10 40 

Flavor 35 

100 
Canned fruits 

Jar 

Shape, size, label 5 

Neatness ."^ 10 

Fruit 

.\rrangement .'^ 

Shape 5 

Color 5 

Texture 10 

Flavor 30 55 



Per Cent 

Juice 

Clearness 5 

Consistency and flavor 15 20 

Proportion of fruit to ja'ce 15 

100 

Canned vegetables 

Jar 

Size, shai>e and label 5 

Neatness 5 10 

Vegetables 

Arrangement 5 

Shape 5 

Color 5 

Texture 25 

Flavor 35 75 

Fulbiess of pack 15 

100 

The Maryland Home Demonstration 
Conference was held at the Maryland .Xgri- 
culture College, College Park, May 22-27 with 
Miss K;j.tharine A . Pritchett, presiding. The 
United States Department of Agriculture 
was represented by Dr. Knapp, Mr. O. B. 
Martin, Miss Creswell, Miss Powell, Dr. 
M. N. Straughn, Mr. Harold S. Lang, and 
Mr. J. M. Kingbome. The speakers from 
the college were President Patterson, Mr. 
T, B. Symons, Mr. Altord, Mr. Shaw, Mr. 
Brigham, and Mr. Stanton. 

The Home Demonstration work in Mary- 
land including Girls' Club work, movable 
schools in Home Economics, and single lec- 
tures and demonstrations, have been carried 
on this year by the state agent, Miss Katha- 
rine A. Pritchett assisted by Miss Florence 
J. Hunt and Miss Kathleen Calkins and 
nine county agents. 

At the conference lectures and demon- 
strations were given on poultry husbandry, 
gardening, canning, jelly making, butter and 
cheese making, bread, and lalx)r saving de- 
vices. Miss Helen Comstock, agent of 
Kent County, prepared a balanced meal 
using food produced and canned by the 
Girls' Clubs. Miss Virginia Moore, stale 
agent of Tennessee sjwkc of the organiza- 
tion and development of work in Tennessee. 



1916] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



339 



New York Y.W.C. A. Cafeteria. Many 
who are planning to attend the meeting of 
the N. E. A. in New York will be glad to 
know of a cafeteria laterly opened by the 
Y. W. C. A. at 29-33 \V. 36th Street. 

The Association conducted at their head- 
quarters at the San Francisco Exposition a 
cafeteria with a seating capacity of 500. 
This was open for continuous service between 
11 o'clock in the morning and 8 o'clock in 
the evening, and for many weeks the attend- 
ance ran over 4000 daily, while on one occa- 
sion it served 6119 people. There was also 
a less formal luncheon service at the club 
house on the amusement zone. 

The new venture in New York City is 
undertaken as a demonstration of what a 
successful cafeteria on a large scale can be, 
especially when it has connected with it 
features that business and suburban \Tsitors 
and shopf>ers appreciate and almost require. 
The Association hopes by this means to t.how 
local Associations the various possibilities, 
and also plans, in connection with the 
summer theoretical course, to make use of 
this opportunity to give women who have 
good technical training and some Associa- 
tion experience a knowledge of how to do 
things on a larger scale than they have been 
accustomed to handle. 

This is "A good place to meet your friends, 
rest, or change your dress for the evening. 
These conveniences are for your use." 



A School Cafeteria. The effective way 
in which one woman may bring about 
changed conditions in school lunches is 
illustrated by the work of Mrs. Caroline 
Kemper Buckley, in Shreveport, Louisiana. 
She realized the necessities of a cafeteria 
in the school and studied up the subject, 
coached two doctors to speak in regard 
to the need, and persuaded the school board 
to start the plan. 

The first attempt failed because the 
board paid no attention to the carefully 
prepared data and took as a manager an 
inexperienced woman. The board then 
turned it over o the women who equipped 



two big rooms in a basement, making it 
white and orderly, with flowers on all 
the tables nearly every day, so that no 
single objection has come to the position 
of the lunch room. 

For the opening days provender was 
begged. There was so much interest that 
men came with heavy loads of food. One 
man carried fifty pounds of hot meat a 
whole mile. With this beginning the cafe- 
teria could hardly fail to be a success. 

The lunch room covers the needs of two 
schools on one campus. Since the beginning 
portions have been enlarged, dainties have 
been added, and now twenty-five five cent 
tickets are sold for a dollar. Organiza- 
tions in town frequently send three or five 
dollars for tickets that may be used at the 
discretion of the teacher when needed, so 
that there may be provision for every child. 



The School of Domestic Arts and 
Science in Chicago has for the last year 
occupied the entire fifth floor of the Tower 
Building, Madison Street and Michigan 
Avenue, with an admirable equipment for 
the uses of the school. 

The work of the school is divided into 
two general divisions, that for the home- 
maker and vocational work. In the home- 
maker's department the women, both in 
regular classes and through lectures, are 
studying the management of the home. 
The vocational department maintains the 
luncheon room, and girls who are admitted 
to regular training are paid a wage for what 
they do. The sewing department plans a 
similar t>'pe of work for another year. 

Four lectures are offered each week, one 
of them free, with an average attendance 
of about fifty. These reach the practical 
homemaker who has no time for class 
work. A homemaker's round table for 
informal discussion of the problems of the 
home has been established this year, meet- 
ing twice a month, open to the members of 
the school. The bulletin of the school has 
been enlarged and made of interest to 
women in the home. 



340 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[June 



During the year announcement has been 
made by Mrs. Potter Palmer of the selec- 
tion of this school as beneficiary of the 
fund left from the Woman's Department 
of the World's Fair. This was not a govern- 
ment fund, but was derived from sales in 
the Woman's Building, and was placed 
in Mrs. Palmer's hands with full discre- 
tion as to its disposal for the benefit of 
women. The fund amounts now to $100,- 
000. The principal will be turned over to 
the Trustees of the School of Domestic 
Arts and Science as a permanent trust, 
the income to be administered by the 
Board of Managers of the School of Domes- 
tic Arts and Science. Announcement will 
be made as soon as possible as to the first 
use to which this income will be put. 



A Successful Practice House. The prac- 
tice house at Stout Institute, Menomonie, 
Wis., is of the type that includes residence 
in the house, not merely making use of the 
rooms for the teaching of furnishing or for 
the ser\'ing of meals. The cottage used for 
this work is a thirteen-room house and is 
occupied by the girls in groups of nine, for 
a period of two weeks, four or five girls 
entering each Saturday night. The work 
is divided into five departments, each pre- 
sided over by a manager, the meals, daily 
care of the house and entertaining, laundry, 
special cleaning, and special baking. The 
work is so well organized that each girl is 
able to perform her duties while still carry- 
ing on the regular work of the school. 
The cottage is owned by the school, and 
weekly expenses are met by the board paid 
by the girls. All accounts are kept by the 
girls. The value of economy is learned 
through the careful management and prepa- 
ration of meals; organization is gained 
through the necessity of planning and doing 
many duties; and the value of time through 
the realization of the necessity of doing work 
thoroughly and quickly. 



Chicago Normal College Summer 
School. For the first time since the days of 



Colonel Parker the Summer School is open to 
teachers outside the city of Chicago. The 
household arts program includes a course in 
dietetics with laborator>' work in the prepa- 
ration of food, chemistry of food, and be- 
ginning and advanced sewing. Miss Jenny 
H. Snow, Head of the Department will be in 
charge of the work. The dates are June 26 
to July 28. 



Ohio State University reports a vari- 
ety of work in Home Economics extension. 
The work is directed by the head of the 
Home Economics Department and the force 
includes an assistant supervisor and nine 
instructors. There are two types of mov- 
able schools carried on, the first for village 
and farm women, of which there were forty- 
eight in 1915-1916, the second in connec- 
tion with county normal schools. As a re- 
sult of the week's work in one normal school, 
with the subsequent assistance of the uni- 
versity department, a self-supporting lunch 
room hu,s been established and work in sew- 
ing and foods has been introduced into the 
high school, which is in consolidation with 
the normal school. 

A plan is also in operation for teaching 
Home Economics in the rural schools in con- 
nection with the school lunch. This helps 
to overcome the three main ditficulties usu- 
ally found in the way of introducing defi- 
nite educational work in Home Economics 
into the rural schools. Lack of special 
training on the part of the teacher, lack of 
time in an already overcrowded program, 
and lack of space and equipment have often 
been prohibitive for such work. These are 
overcome to a great extent by instruction in 
the preparation of the necessary noon lunch. 
Each printed lesson-help for teachers con- 
tains a list of necessary equipment, an order 
list of supplies, directions for the prepara- 
tion of the food, questions to be answered in 
notebooks and suggestions for work to be 
done at home. 

Homemaking Clubs for girls arc Ixing or- 
ganized for the purpose of interesting them 
in activities of the home and community, and 
stimulating helpful social life. Printed cir- 



1916] 



NEWS FROM THE PIELD 



341 



culars give instruction and definite plans for 
the work to be done. 

The walls of the new Home Kconomics 
building at Ohio State University are rapid- 
ly going up. The building, which is to be 
ready for occupancy by September 1, 1916, 
is a three-story fire-proof brick structure, 
costing appro.ximately $150,000. 

Space is provided for research, and insti- 
tutional laboratory — Home Kconomics ex- 
tension work and an e.xpcrimental flat as 
well as the ordinary laboratories, class rooms, 
and offices. 

The building is heated from a central 
plant, and the ventilation system includes 
air-washers and humidifiers. A vacuum 
cleaning plant is to be installed also. 

The plans for the building will be given 
later. 

Brief Notes. The twentieth annual con- 
ference of the Xational Congress of Mothers 
and Parent-Teachers Associations was held 
from April 4-9 in Nashville, Tennessee. 
The next meeting will be an international 
one, and will be held in Washington, D C, 
in April, 1917. 

The Women's Municipal League of New 
York City, Mrs. Henry A. Stimson, Presi- 
dent, is publishing weekly a series of leaflets 
on Women and the City's Work. The 
leaflets deal with school conditions, legis- 
lative bills, surveys of the districts of the 
city, achievements of the city administra- 
tion, community service other than school 
work undertaken by women, the Gary plan, 
and other topics of immediate and \ntal 
interest The effective way of stating con- 
ditions is illustrated by the graphic presenta- 
tion comparing opportunities of the child 
in Yorkville schools and in Gary schools, and 
in a quotation from one of the leaflets given 
in another part of this Jourx.al. The price 
of the leaflets is twenty-five cents a year. 
It would be well worth while for every 
mother and teacher to subscribe for them. 

The Women's Municipal League of Bos- 
ton issues monthly bulletins from Decem- 
ber to May, giNing in another form as inter- 



esting an account of their activities as those 
of the New York Association. The bulletin 
for January, 1916 is issued by the department 
of Food Sanitation and Distribution, and 
includes the inspection score card of the 
Board of Health; a photograph of the clean 
food shop in the League's traveling exhibit; 
the report of the Candy Committee that 
has been undertaking an investigation of 
soda fountain conditions and advocating 
the adoption of paper cups; some effective 
methods of getting rid of rats, with copies 
of posters; and an account of open-air 
markets in Newton Center and in New 
York City. 



Institution Economics Section. The 
meeting of the Institution Section of the 
American Home Economics Association, or- 
dinarily held at Lake Placid, will meet this 
year at Cornell University, Ithaca, New 
York. Wednesday, June 28, has been set 
for the meetings of the Institution Section, 
and during the following days, June 29 to 
July 3, when the general Home Economics 
Association meets, opportunity will be af- 
forded those interested in Institution Man- 
agement to have repeated and informal con- 
ferences and round tables which will be of 
the greatest advantage to all. 

Any special questions or suggestions for 
subjects may be sent to the following chair- 
men of committees: Housekeeping supplies, 
Mrs. Dewey (Lake Placid); Laundry man- 
agement, Miss Balderston (Teachers Col- 
lege); per capita costs, Mr. Cole (Harvard 
University); dietitians. Miss Atwood (Johns 
Hopkins); school lunches. Miss Boughton 
(Philadelphia); cafeteria management, Miss 
Hunn (Cornell University); dormitory man- 
agement. Miss Goodrich (Simmons Col- 
lege); waste, Miss Watson (McDonald Insti- 
tute, Guelph); courses of instruction. Miss 
Arnold (Sirmnons College). 

Inquiries regarding rooms, rates, pro- 
grams, etc., may be addressed to Miss Mar- 
tha Van Rensselaer, Cornell University, 
Ithaca, New York. 

Emma H. Gunther, Teachers' College, is 
secretar>' of this section. 



ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS 

ASSOCIATION 

The annual meeting will be held at Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y., June 28- July 3, 
inclusive. June 28 will be devoted to section meetings, and June 29-July 3 to the general 
program. 

The program will be arranged to allow for group conferences as well as for the presenta- 
tion of general topics for discussion. To this end, the forenoon will be given over to general 
subjects; the afternoon in part to conferences and in part to organized excursions. Eve- 
nings will be held for formal addresses and entertainments, both social and educational. 

On Tuesday, the 27th, at seven-thirty o'clock, the meeting of the Executive Committee 
will be held in the Home Economics apartment. 

Wednesday, the 28th, will be devoted to meetings of the various sections of the Association. 

Institution. Miss Sarah Louise Arnold, Simmons College, Chairman. 

Extension. Miss Gertrude McCheyne, University of Utah, Chairman. 

Science. Miss Ruth Wheeler, University of Illinois, Chairman. 

Programs will soon be announced for these sections. 

Wednesday evening there will be an informal reception, a roll-call of members illustrated 
with lantern slides. Some one will be asked to speak for each institution represented. 

Conferences on textiles and clothing, Home Economics in elementary schools, and jour- 
nalism in Home Economics, will be held during the meeting. 

Friday evening the women students of the Department of Home Economics will present 
the play "Omelet and Oatmealia," a musical comedJ^ The proceeds will be used for the 
Ellen H. Richards Fund. 

Several times during the program, moving pictures relating to Home Economics sub- 
jects will be presented in Bailey Hall. 

All institutions are invited to send material illustrating their work. It will be on exhibi- 
tion for the Association and will be returned to the institution sending it. 

Ithaca affords a most unusual opportunity for outings and recreation. For each after- 
noon trips will be planned to some points of interest, including Watkins Glen, The (ieorge 
Junior Republic, Enfield Falls and Taughannock Falls. Every one is urged to bring strong 
shoes and old clothes for tramping. Stop-over tickets for Ithaca may be secured on through 
tickets to New York. Special railroad rates will be announced. 

Rooms will be secured so far as possible in Cascadilla dormitories. One of the men's 
residential halls will be opened to men attending the conference. Rooms may be secured 
for an average of $1.00 a day, and board may be secured at the Home Economics caf*'teria 
at a moderate cost. 

The next Buixktin of the Association will give the full program. Information regard- 
ing program and accommodations may be secured by addressing the Department oi Home 
Economics, Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y. 



342 



Vol. \-III, X.). 7 



THE 



JULY, 1916 



Journal of Home Economics 

For those inti-rested in nonienrakinfi. Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Kconomics 



Mrs Alice P Norton. Etilor 



Mrs. Marv H. .Xbf.l 



Ketl-rah E. Baldwin, .\f miii-ng Editor 
EJilorial Board 
An.s'a Barrows C. F. Lancwortiiy Isabel Ely I^ird 



ExOfficio Sfem'ers — Martba Van Rensselaer, President .American Home Economics .Association 
Sarah Louise Arnold, Ch:iirman Institution Economics Section 
Ruth Whekler. Chairman Science Section 
Gertrude McCheyne, Chairman Extension Education Section 

Collaboraton — The OflTiCcrs, Members of the CounciL and .Advisers 



CONTENTS 

ml nuip.ai, m.vrkefs of thi: xorthwkst 

Old Bak.k Ovens in Pknnsvi-vania 

Standards for Hi'.-.h School Textbooks in Home Kconomics 
Some Suggestions as to Domestic Sciinci: Kqcipment 

Washinp. ant) Ct.eamn.; 

The Solution of .Xntlmow fro.m Knameled Cookinc Utensils 

The Trainim; of the County Ac.ent 

Standard for Imported Milk 

An International Kpisode 

\\ Outline 

I "K the Homemaker 

Clothes and the Income . 

Clothing Budgets . : 

A Camp for Commuters 



Some Other Enperiments on the Comp.vrative Cost of Ho.mem 



Students' Contributions 
Editorial 

Comment and Discussion 

The Question Box 
Books and Literature 

Bibliography of Home Economics 
News from the Field .... 




.l/rv. l-rniiriik Calkins 

lidilh .\f. Thomas 

.1 !,')/■ V A'. Ifainiii 

. /■:<!,! Lord Murphy 

. ir.'Vr/rr /;. Hiuurofl 

Elizibdh W. Miller 

Kiilh'iriif A . Prilchrll 



Chiirlollc Gibbs Baker 



\DE AND Baker's Bread 



\[a\ B. Van Arsdale and Da\ Monro" 



34.? 
347 
349 

356 
361 
368 
370 
371 
372 
373 
373 
376 
378 

380 
383 
386 
388 
392 
395 
399 
401 



The Journal of Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics .Association. 
$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.25. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on .New York. Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable 
to the American Home Economics .Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk." 

CH.AN'GE IN .ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which the 
change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old .Address suould be clearly indicated in addition to the New .Address. 

AMERICAN- HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION Station N, Baltimore, Md. 

Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post Office 




Sho\vin<,' a cu])board, tray, tabic, and in 'ividiial towel rods 




Showing rod for paper towels, lire c.\lin,i,'i''-^liiT. and jiarliaKc pail. 
Tm: Kitchen, Gkorcia Normai. and Industriaf, Coi.i.egk. (Sec pajjc .^.M). 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. Mil JULY, 1916 No. 7 

MUNICIPAL MARKETS OF THE NORTHWEST^ 

MRS. FREDERICK CALKINS 
EUensburg, WashingU^n 

Municipal markets are not usually considered necessary or profitable 
in cities of a population less than 25,000, and very few cities of less size 
support public markets. Therefore in discussing the municipal markets 
of the Northwest we are really considering the markets of only four 
cities: Spokane, in Eastern Washington; Seattle and Tacoma in West- 
ern Washington; and Portland in Oregon — cities ranging in population 
from 100,000 to 350,000. 

A market to be a success must come in response to a popular demand 
from the people of that community, and after its establishment must 
be loyally supported by them. A city which is surrounded by small 
truck gardens makes a better market center than a city adjacent to 
the larger farming areas. Perhaps this is one reason why there are 
larger and more numerous markets in Seattle than in Portland tliough 
the cities are somewhat the same size. Foreigners and a middle class 
population take more kindly to municipal markets than any other class 
of people; the very poor are more given to buying on credit, and nearly 
all markets are run on a cash basis. 

Strictly municipal markets (meaning public markets built, owned, 
and managed by the municipality) are ver}^ few as compared with the 
so-called city or public markets which are managed by private individ- 
uals or corporations. 

' Presented at the Eighth .\nnual Meeting, of the American Home Economics Association, 
Seattle, 1915. 

343 



344 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS Ijulv 

Seattle has seven public markets, but at only two of these (Pike Place 
and Westlake) are there stalls available for the farmers and producers. 
There are about two hundred of these stalls (wagons are no longer 
allowed here) which the farmer draws by lot, and for this privilege pays 
ten cents — the only charge. 

Spokane has several markets but they arc all privately owned and 
managed and are chiefly large emporiums for the convenient associa- 
tion of commercial interests rather than the bringing together of the 
producer and the consumer. At one of these markets (Second and Ste- 
vens Streets) during certain hours each day, the farmers are allowed to 
back their wagons up to the curbing where they stand in the hot sun or 
the rain because they are not permitted a stall in the market building. 

Portland opened its first municipal market two years ago though there 
was considerable public sentiment against it. It occupies two blocks 
on Yamhill street with somewhat substantial and artistic looking stalls 
on both sides of the street. I believe the only charge to stall holders 
is a small amount, probably enough to pay for a caretaker or janitor. 
The city gives free lights, free garbage collection, and free rent and 
water. 

The original idea in establishing this public market was to make a 
place where the small producer could sell his products directly to the con- 
sumer; and, with the operating expense reduced to the minimum, it was 
intended that the consumer would be benefited by a reduction in food 
prices. This market has proved immensely popular with the masses and 
is crowded with buyers; but it has not accomplished its purpose of reduc- 
ing the cost of living. There seems to be a regular combine among the 
stall-holders, and prices are absolutely uniform in every stall. The 
stalls are rented very largely — perhaps 60 per cent — by Japanese who 
are supposed to be farmers but in reaHty are simply retailers or sell on 
commission. There may be a very few producers selling their own 
products directly to the consumer, but the market is so largely made up 
of retailers who have had nothing whatever to do with the growing of 
the products they sell, that the Retail Grocers Association of Portland 
has recently made a strong j)rotest against the market as now con- 
ducted. They maintain that it is clearly a case of discrimination against 
retail grocers and other taxpaying merchants, for the city to conduct 
this market at the expense of the city and the public for the benefit of 
certain individuals, some of whom arc using said market place for the 
purjKJse of retailing j)roduce gathered from tlilTerent i)arts oi the state. 



1916J MUN'ICIPAL MARKKTS OF Till: NORTHWEST 345 

Whether it is or is not an expense to tlie taxpayers is a question aside; 
tlie real question is: Does the market accomplish the purpose for which 
it was established, i.e., has it brought tlie actual small producer in 
contact with the consumer, and has it reduced the price of food stuffs? 
It would seem to have failed of its purpose in both these respects, 
and what is true in the case of the Portland municipally managed 
market is true in the majority of other cities having strictly municipal 
markets. 

Tacoma has one municipal market, consisting of a single row of stalls, 
each about ten by twelve feet square, the display tops slanting towards the 
sidewalk. The enclosed space beneath is used for storage. There are 
about thirty-five of these wooden stalls extending for two blocks along 
the curbing of "D" Street — or Market Street as I believe it is now called. 
The stalls extend for a foot or a foot and a half on the sidewalk, and the 
rest on the street, and are slightly elevated to allow for cleaning under- 
neath. The sidewalk and stalls are protected by a shed roof which ex- 
tends over the sidewalk to the large building facing the row of stalls. 
There are small shops and stalls in this building but they are not under 
city control. 

This city, like most others, built this market in order to eliminate the 
evils of the middleman's charges, and to benefit the small grower as 
well as the consumer; but absolutely no attempt is made to rent the stalls 
to the actual producers and practically every stall is held by a retailer 
simply. The stalls have a sliding scale of rent, starting with $25 per 
month for the first stall on the corner (considered the most advantageous 
location), 50 cents less for the next stall, and so on. 

The stall holders also pay for the light and water, and the stall prices 
are the same in winter as in summer — the rentals averaging the city a 
revenue of about $500 per month. This more than pays for the ex- 
pense of repairing, the general upkeep, and the market master's salary, 
and so is really a profit to the city. 

The food ordinance of Tacoma provides that no food shall be exposed 
or displayed for sale upon any street or sidewalk, but makes an excep- 
tion of the public market. This is manifestly ''class discrimination" 
and the other merchants are very well aware that the city cannot en- 
force this section of the ordinance and are quick to take advantage of 
this situation. A request from the Food Inspector that the grocers take 
in their sidewalk display is sure to be met with the reply: "Make the 
Market stop displa\-ing on the sidewalk, and then talk to us I You are 



346 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS ijuly 

breaking the ordinance yourselves, and you are breaking another one 
too — obstructing traffic!" 

In every city market there are presented two aknost universal prob- 
lems: to secure healthy competition which will do away with price fix- 
ing, and to ehminate dishonesty in its various forms. Most cities fail 
to accomplish this; but one of the middle western cities is said to have 
solved this problem. The city has absolute control of the market, and 
the full responsibility is placed upon the market superintendent who is 
given full rein. Whenever a stall is rented it is with the express stipu- 
lation that the renter can sell there only so long as he deals fairly with 
the public and so conducts his business that it does not become detri- 
mental to the best interests of the market. In the beginning there were 
a few dealers eliminated from the market and since then there has not 
been a single complaint of dishonesty in two years, and there seems to 
be no suggestion of fixed prices. 

It would seem that if municipal markets were given more thought and 
attention by the municipaUty, and their management placed in the hands 
of a superintendent of understanding and honesty who would not be 
subservient to political influences (willingly or un\\'illingly as the case 
may be), and the rentals of the market kept at cost and become neither a 
liabiHty nor a profit to the city, such markets would perform a needed 
service to the community. 

It is very apparent from the constantly increasing number of public 
markets that these institutions have proved exceedingly popular ^s-ith 
the mass of the people. They are usually located near the business 
centers and many housewives go in person to the market places to 
select from the wide variety so temptingly displayed. 

Even if the prices are uniform there still remains the advantage of a 
larger quantity from which to choose, and under the eye of the purchaser 
there is less chance of shortness in weight, quality, or measure. There 
is also a tendency to purchase less if cash is paid at the time of pur- 
chase, and doubtless the cash purchasing is often a saving to the house- 
wife for this reason. 

The foreigners certainly understand the cultivation of berries, fruits 
and vegetables, and the artistic arrangement of the wares at the stalls 
is a joy to behold. Surely the beauty-loving souls of these Orientals 
and children of the Southland must find no little satisfaction in the won- 
derful variety of colors at their flisposal. The displays are usually 
arranged with a splendid regard for color cfTccts and most pleasing 



1916] OLD BAKE OVENS IN PENNSYLVANIA 347 

results as to light and shade. Frequently the heavier, darker foodstuffs 
such as tlie shining purjole egg-plant, young beets, or red-cheeked apples, 
and the luscious grapes or rich-toned plums, are surrctunded and con- 
trasted by fruits and vegetables of a lighter coloring. The brilliant red 
tomatoes nestle against a tray of pale green lettuce heads, and the 
smooth green cucumbers are piled near a mound of shining white celery. 
The pale lemons and the darker hued oranges are most attractive 
against a background of parsley, and the pearly whiteness of the new 
com shines forth from a border of crisp watercress. During the berr>' 
season there are bright strawberries, the duller toned raspberries, black- 
berries and the huge logan berries to add to the won<ierful variety of 
color. The equable climate of this coast and the rich soil produce 
truly wonderful fruits, vegetables, and berries and a large assortment of 
palatable foodstuffs may be found the year around. 



OLD BAKE OVENS IN PENNSYLVANIA^ 

EDITH M. THOMAS 

The quaint old-time "Dutch" ovens or *'Backofen" as Germans call 
them, built of either brick or stone, in a separate building not far distant 
from the house, or at one end of the farm-house kitchen, are seldom if 
ever used by the up-to-date housewife of the present day; in fact these 
old ovens once so common in Pennsylvania are so rarely seen, as to be 
practically unknown to the present younger generation, especially those 
dwelling in cities. 

I have frequently heard my grandmother afiirm "Sweeter bread than 
that baked directly on the hearth of an old 'Dutch' oven, 'twas impos- 
sible to procure;" and I do not think the veracity of this statement will 
be questioned, when I inform you of the fact that very soon after the ar- 
rival of my grandparents in a distant city, where they purchased a 
home with the expectation of residing permanently, my grandfather 
complied with my grandmother's urgent request to have an oven built, 
exactly like the one in which she had baked bread at their old home on 
a Bucks County farm. 

' A paper presented at the annual meeting of the Bucks County, Pa., Historical Society 
at Doylestown, January 25, 1916. 



348 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

The efficient housewives of our day may be interested in the old-time 
method of preparing sponge for those hearth-baked loaves of bread. 
Usually the sponge for bread was mixed in an old fashioned, wooden 
dough tray, somewhat similar in shape and size to a small steamer-trunk; 
this was partly filled with flour; the sponge or batter was mixed at 
night in one end of this tray, surrounded by a wall of flour, any pre- 
ferred liquid and home-made hop yeast being used. It was then placed 
near the open fire place until the following morning, when the well-risen 
sponge was stiffened from the remaining wall of flour surrounding it, 
thoroughly kneaded, then moulded into shapely loaves, which were then 
placed in well floured straw baskets, or "Brod Corvels," as they are 
called by the Pennsylvania Germans. In the meantime a fire of hard 
wood had been built on the hearth. When the oven was thoroughly 
heated to the correct temperature for baking, and the dough in baskets 
had raised sufficiently, the hot, charred pieces of wood were raked from 
the oven. With a primitive mop, called a "swab," consisting of a piece 
of cloth fastened to one end of a long pole (which was immersed in a 
pail of cold water), the brick floor of the oven was thoroughly cleansed 
ready for the well raised loaves; the baskets containing the sponge were 
quickly turned upside down onto a long handled, broad, wooden shovel 
used exclusively for this purpose, and with a dexterity only acquired 
by continued practice, the loaf was quickly transferred from the shovel 
to the hot oven floor. 

When the oven had been filled to its utmost capacity with bread, 
cakes, and pies (the Pennsylvania German's love for pie is proverbial), 
the oven door was adjusted to prevent the escape of heat and was held 
in place by the handle of the shovel resting against it, in the primitive 
manner in which things were done in those days. In a short space of 
time, the entire week's baking had been accompUshed more expeditiously 
than if a modem range had been used for the purpose. Bread in olden 
times, especially rye loaves, baked directly on the hearth, possessed a 
sweet, nutty flav^or obtained in no other way. 

It may be interesting to know that these hearth-baked loaves of 
bread were usually about forty-six inches in circumference and from 
three to three and one-half inches in height. 

These "Dutch" ovens usually, when measured across, were four and 
one-half feet wide, five and one-half feet long, and thirty inches high, 
above the solid wall built of stone with a heavy clay foundation. The 
door oj)ening was eighteen by twenty-one inches and these ovens were 
frequently built within a stone and frame building eight by twelve feet. 



1916| HIGH SCHOOL textbooks in home economics 349 

STAxNDARDS FOR HIGH SCHOOL TEXTBOOKS IN HOME 

ECONOMICS^ 

AGIfES K. HANNA 
University of Chicago 

After a period of several years when no high school textbooks were 
being published we have had eight or ten books olTered within the last 
two years, and rumors of many more in the making. These books mainly 
consider foods, nutrition, and household management, and do not in- 
clude the clothing and applied art problems. The problem of selec- 
tion of a good text from among the number offered is our problem at 
present, and this brings to our attention the need for discussion of the 
standards by which to judge the adequacy of a given book. 

Before discussing any specific points I should like to raise the ques- 
tion of a clear definition of our need as teachers of Home Economics. 
Do we need more books to assist us in organizing the material for our 
high school classes rather than more high school textbooks? Should 
these take the form of comprehensive laboratory manuals with sugges- 
tions as to method of presentation, or do we need books on methods of 
presentation and organization of both laboratory and theoretical work? 
For books to be put into the hands of the students do we need a multi- 
plication of our present type of high school textbooks, or do we need 
more comprehensive material of each of the aspects — laboratory man- 
uals, and text material or subject matter? It is a very interesting com- 
mentary on our present use of textbooks that a large percentage of 
teachers are still dictating laboratory experiments and subject matter 
to their classes, their explanation being that they are unable to find an 
adequate textbook. 

The conventional method of treatment in books on Food and Nutri- 
tion is an arrangement of combined text and laboratory manual which 
may be divided into specific lessons or treated in topics under such 
general headings as fruits, vegetables, meats, and fish. Sub-topics un- 
der these headings are: (1) Composition of food materials illustrated 
by more or less formal experiments, by tables of general composition, 
or merely by statements of the significant composition in terms of pro- 
tein, carbohydrate, and mineral matter; (2) a statement of food value 
and use of foods in the body; (3) reasons for and methods of cooking; 

' Contributed by the Home Economics Committee of the Central .Association of Science 
and Mathematics Teachers. 



350 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [J^lv 

(4) cost; (5) recipes and experiments to be used in class work. The 
books also usually contain several introductor>' chapters on equipment 
and its care in the laboratory, fuels, and general methods of cooking. 
This material is often further augmented by suggestions of class room 
management for the teacher, or in many cases chapters are given on 
the value of Home Economics in school work. The subject matter 
covered may be specifically foods, or it may include several or all of the 
various phases of Home Economics. A large number of these textbooks 
are the formation in book fonn of actual class room experience with a 
definite group of students. There are definite advantages in this plan 
but also some notable disadvantages, as it is ver>' difiicult to adapt to 
other school conditions so clearly defined a method of presentation as 
this entails. 

Is it possible to write textbooks with enough and sufficiently compre- 
hensive material to be usable by all types of high schools, or should each 
distinctive type of course demand its special type of book? If the latter 
is true, our greatest need would seem to be to develop more variety in 
our conception of the organization of textbooks. The following types 
of presentation are suggestive of different points of view in presenting 
cooking: (1) The use of experimental cooking to develop the principles 
of cooking; (2) the study of cost and time value as basic aspects leading 
up to later work in household management; (3) the cost and nutritive 
value of foods dominating other phases. If it seems advisable to de- 
velop these specialized forms one of the fundamental considerations of 
a text should be a definite method of developing the subject in a way 
to bring out the specific values desired. In general, the arrangement 
of laboratory work in texts or the laboratory manual part of the book 
more definitely defines the method than the informational or text mate- 
rial. For example, if my basic idea is to develop a study of cost in rela- 
tion to quality and time spent in preparing foods, my text material 
might be similar to other books, with possibly a greater emphasis on 
marketing conditions, but my laborator>' work, including experiments 
and their applications, would be arranged to emphasize diff'erent meth- 
ods of using different qualities of food materials, the systematic use of 
the pressure and fircless cookers and other labor-saving methods and 
devices, and a regular use of meal ser\'ing at definite stages in the course. 
Could you use any of our present textbooks for all of these different 
cases? Can you conceive of any type of textbook that could meet all 
of these needs? If this issue is significant, a textbook should lither 



1916] HIGH SCHOOL TEXTBOOKS I\ HOME ECONOMICS 351 

clearly define a specialized method of presentation or ofTer adequate 
material to allow selection on the part of the instructor. 

A second problem on which our point of view varies in judging text- 
books is the adequacy of our high school books from the subject matter 
standpoint. The subject of Home Economics covers a vast range of 
material — scientific, technical, and economic- -and it is separable into 
definite subjects such as marketing, cooking, dietaries, and household 
management. Home Economics in the high school means anything 
from a half unit to a four unit course. In the half unit course an in- 
structor must decide what phases of her problem she will emphasize 
and frankly eliminate those which, though in themselves interesting, have 
no direct significance in the general course or for the personal needs of 
the student. In the four unit course, on the contrary, where subject 
matter is studied under these different headings, textbooks should cover 
each phase of Home Economics in a comprehensive way. Obviously 
the textbook which attempts to cover the whole problem in an ele- 
mentary way meets neither of these needs. As an illustration of this, 
if I wish to give a class significant work on marketing, there is no text- 
book available at the present time which offers enough material for my 
class. I am dependent upon references from various sources to augment 
the sLxteen-page chapter in the only book offering any organization of 
this subject. There is also very little adequate material dealing with 
the subject matter of nutrition and dietaries. In attempting to simplify 
material for high school classes, most of our textbooks eliminate rather 
than develop our subject in a clear, e.xplanator>' way which notes gen- 
eral principles and explains applications. An interesting illustration 
of the inadequacy of subject matter in our high school textbooks is that 
of a recent book, the editor of which made, as a great point in its recom- 
mendation, the statement that the entire subject of Home Economics 
to be presented in a two year course is covered in 334 pages. For what 
other subject would it be a matter of congratulation that the single text- 
book could be used for a two unit course? 

A third point in standardization of textbooks is the problem of the 
advisability of the survival of the lesson by lesson text. By this I mean 
the books which subdivide the material into a series of lessons rather 
than under topical headings. Wliile this t>pe of book may have some 
definite values for the inexperienced teacher, there are certain limita- 
tions and losses imposed by this form. The material is not readily 
available f(jr reference. The continuity of subject matter is lost. In 



352 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [J^lv 

follo\ving such a textbook ciTective teaching is often subordinated to 
covering a definite amount of material in a given lesson. This form of 
textbook also, if put into the hands of students, allows the teacher little 
opportunity for originality in method of presentation. 

A fourth value by which we judge our textbooks is the adaptability of 
the book to the needs, understanding, and interests of the high school 
girl. As was suggested earlier in this discussion, many of the high 
school texts present a simplified form of material that has been pre- 
sented to the teacher herself in normal schools and universities, rather 
than a reorganization of this material from the standpoint of the high 
school girl's interest. 

I have attempted to summarize what would seem to be the principal 
issues in judging our various texts. The chief criticism of the current 
textbooks might be classified as: (1) An attempt to cover thinly far 
too much ground; (2) poor balance between text material and labora- 
tory directions which take the form of padding with recipes and insuffi- 
cient subject matter; (3) vagueness in the relation of the subject of 
Home Economics to science material of other courses. A textbook in 
cooking should either presuppose previous science work and emphasize 
all the appHcations of science principles, or else it should definitely 
include enough work in the sciences to make the practical applica- 
tions of chemistry, physics, and bacteriology not mere statements of 
fact, but significant appHcations of general principles. (4) The prob- 
lem of cost of foods is often either ignored or else treated in such an iso- 
lated way that the student has no conception of the relative cost of food 
materials or labor expenditure and no knowledge of the basic economic 
principles underlying price. (5) In the attempt to simplify and con- 
dense material for high school students many statements are made as 
final truths which current science is either questioning or disproving. 
This is especially true in regard to nutrition. 



1916] SOME SUGGESTIONS AS TO DOxMESTIC SCIENCE EQUIPMENT 353 

SOME SUGGESTIONS AS TO DOMESTIC SCIENCE 
EQUIPMENT 

EDA LORD MURPHY 

Georgia Normal and Industrial College, \filledgeville 

The question of equipment for laboratories is one of continual in- 
terest to domestic science teachers. The precious $5 or $10 to be 
spent for the small school must be spent with as much wisdom and 
discrimination as the S500 for a more elaborate and complete labora- 
tory. Probably the most efTective of school-kitchen equipments evolve 
— growing, changing, developing as the work grows, changes, and de- 
velops. Too few or wrongly chosen utensils prevent efficiency. Too 
many, even if suitable, are a burden. The teacher who has only two 
dish-pans for a class of twelve is no worse ofT than the one who has to 
find storage room for useless and unnecessary tools. But between these 
two extremes are the many kitchens where a reasonable amount of money 
is to be spent at the discretion of the teacher. She must be able to 
discriminate. She cannot afford to be penny wdse and pound foolish. 
Most of us, however, get our knowledge of real values by the expensive 
method, known as "experience." 

Let us consider first the question of the appearance of the room as a 
whole and then some of its details. Is it too sweeping a statement 
to say that every school kitchen everywhere ought fairly to scream the 
word "cleanliness?" The school kitchen in "Spotless Town" must 
live up to the highest standards set by any housekeeper and the school 
kitchen in Bugaboo must set standards. So there you are! 

As far as appearance goes it is almost impossible to over-estimate 
the value of white paint. WTiite tables, white stoves, white cupboards, 
if they are clean, look so, and if not clean they show it; in either case, 
"Murther will out." Even white oilcloth has been known to teach 
the lesson of cleanliness better than many words. Of course both paint 
and oilcloth have disadvantages as coverings for table tops but to one 
who has tried many kinds the disadvantages are outweighed by the 
satisfaction of haxing a white kitchen. The costliness of tiling for 
table tops is almost prohibitive; the composition tops are usually dark 
in color and absorbent; wood, if well seasoned and fitted is satisfactory 
but very hard to get, especially in small towns where the carpentry is 
not always done by skilled workmen. White oilcloth ought to be 



354 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [julv 

used only when the table top is free from obstructions and the tacks 
can be under the rim of the table. With ordinary care it may last for 
one school year but if in constant use it may need one renewal. When 
gas plates or stoves of various kinds rest on top of the table and necessi- 
tate the use of zinc, the remaining surface is far easier to keep clean 
if painted with a heavy coat of enamel. The constant scrubbing 
wears it off in spots, but one renewal during the year is not extravagant 
for upkeep. 

There is a real and a valuable psychological effect produced by white 
paint. The whole tone of the room is changed. From a condition 
which might be called negative cheer it is changed to something posi- 
tive. There is an incentive to keep things clean because there is genuine 
satisfaction as a reward. A dining room in which there was a large 
clumsy table, six chairs, a serving table, a china closet, of erstwhile 
"Golden Oak" finish, was transformed by the generous use of white 
paint. With a soft tint on the walls, table cover, curtains, and run- 
ner of blue and white Japanese towehng (which is both washable and 
in good design) the room is cheery and delightful although the sun 
doesn't reach it. Possibly the lack of direct sunshine makes the white- 
ness more desirable. So much for white enamel paint as a silent but 
effective helper in the war on dirt which all of us must wage with diligence 
till we die. Just try it! 

To be quite orthodox, we have usually felt a kitchen ought to have a 
hollow-square tabic with the usual arrangment of drawers for small 
utensils, and cupboards below. Only one who has had to inspect low 
cupboards knows the joy of having all indi\ddual equipment on shelves 
in plain sight, behind glass doors. The expense of ha\'ing suflicient 
cupboard space to accommodate a class is not very much greater than 
the building or bu>ing of ready-made domestic science tables. The 
accompanying photograph shows the arrangement of utensils for a 
group of two. The two lower shelves hold bowls (two sizes), custard 
cup, measuring cups (one aluminum, one glass), soap dish, matches, 
knives, forks, spoons, and scissors. The Dover egg beater, strainers, 
and plate scraper, hang. The second shelf holds the two double boilers, 
two enamel baking dishes, two saucepans, one small rolling pin (behind 
the saucepans) and two small serving plates. The top shelf in eacli 
cupboard is used for pitchers, teApots, ca.sseroles, and other utensils 
that are not in constant use. 




Cupboard with utensils for two students. 



1916] SOME SUGGESTIONS AS TO DOMESTIC SCIENCE EQUIPMENT 355 

In this kitchen the walls are light yellow, all woodwork white, the bowls 
blue striped, the cutlery and utility pan aluminum, and all gas pipes 
and indi\idual stoves nickel plated. 

Each pupil has a gas burner with removable grate, a bread board 
fitted into the table, a glass towel rod fastened to the table and a stool 
which slips underneath; the cupboard, with utensils for the group, is 
a step or two behind her. 

There ought to be in every laboratory an effective and easily handled 
fire extinguisher, which e\-eryone is taught to use. The proverbial 
blanket which is there for the purpose is likely to collect moths and is 
a nuisance. 

The garbage pail is very often an eyesore in an otherwise attractive 
kitchen. The kind whose cover is lifted by pressing the foot on a 
pedal enables one to come with both hands full. These are procurable 
in at least three sizes in white finish. 

A tray wagon is invaluable, especially when supplies have to be dis- 
tributed to several kitchens. One satisfactory kind costs $6. 

A glass towel rod is used for a paper towel holder by having a little 
piece cut out of the knob at one end so that the rod can be lifted out. 
Paper towels are indispensable. A glass rod for each pupil or a con- 
tinuous nickel rod have helped solve the problem of keeping the towels 
in good condition. The general class towel rack is the despair of many 
a faithful teacher. 

In a kitchen which was notably inconvenient because there were 
no individual burners and no room for gas plates on the table, a series 
of nine burners was placed against a concrete wall and has proved 
very satisfactory. 

School kitchens are not as a rule both efficient and attractive, but it 
is possible to have them so. There is a bewildering variety of tools; 
some are labor savers, and some are labor makers. Some are ugly 
and some are good looking. Usefulness and durability should not be 
sacrificed to beauty, but all three qualities can be secured. The rage 
for aluminum is partly due to the housekeeper's desire to have attrac- 
tive utensils. A teacher can manage to eliminate the old and unsatis- 
factory utensils for the newer and better kinds without being extrava- 
gant. In any case the school equipment ought not to be stagnant and 
unchanging, but always in a state of evolution toward perfect efficiency. 



356 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS Ijuly 

WASHING AND CLEANING' 

WILDER D. BANCROFT 
Cornell University 

I am not in any way an expert in the art of removing spots; but it 
seems to me that a classification of the different methods might be help- 
ful in clearing up our ideas and in showing which are the most promis- 
ing methods for future development. I therefore suggest the following 
tentative classification : 

1. Mechanical removal. 

2. Dissolving in a liquid. 

3. Peptizing with a Hquid. 

4. Peptizing with a solution. 

5. Peptizing with a peptized colloid. 

6. Peptizing in several stages. 

7. Adsorption by solid. 

8. Peptizing with a Hquid and adsorption by solid. 

9. Change of substance forming the spot. 

A few illustrations will make this classification clearer. When we 
brush off dried mud we are remo\dng mechanically. The removal of 
sugar or of some dyes by water is a case of dissolving in a liquid. A 
more striking case is the extraction of iodine by alcohol. The char- 
acteristic of this class is that the substance of which the spot is composed 
forms a true solution in the liquid. 

Before giving illustrations of peptizing with a liquid it is perhaps 
wise to define the word "peptize." When a substance is dispersed or 
suspended in a liquid without forming a true solution, we say that it is 
peptized by the liquid. In muddy water, the mud is peptized by the 
water. India ink consists essentially of carbon peptized by water. In 
these two cases it is easy enough to see that there are particles in 
suspension. With Congo red in water, it is quite impossible to see any 
suspended particles, but it is possible to separate the Congo red from 
the water by filtration through a suitably prepared collodion filter. 
Although olive oil .seems very transparent, it is j^robable that the 
stearin is only peptized by the oil and that it is not in true solution. 
If we wash out of cloth a dye which forms a colloidal solution instead 

' Presented before the Biological Section of the .American Chemical Society, University 
of Illinois, April, 1916. 



1916] WASHING AND CLE.\NING 357 

of a true solution with water, we arc peptizing the dye with water. The 
removal of chocolate by water is another case of the same t>pe because 
chocolate does not readily dissolve in water. The removal of iron rust 
from iron by means of kerosene is a case of peptization, because the iron 
oxide does not dissolve in kerosene. The removal of grease by benzine, 
gasoline, or naphtha, is another case under this heading because the 
grease does not form a true solution in these organic liquids. The re- 
moval of rosin with benzine comes under the same head. 

There are not many cases of peptizing with a solution and this is put 
in more for the sake of completeness. Some add dyes can be stripped 
mth sodium sulphate solution; paint stains can sometimes be removed 
with sodium carbonate solution; and soot can be removed to some ex- 
tent by means of a dilute caustic soda solution. I do not know whether 
the removal of grease by borax belongs here or whether the borax ac- 
tually saponifies the grease, probably the former. 

Under peptization by a peptized colloid we have all the cases in which 
soap is used. Soap does not dissolve in water but is readily peptized 
by it. The theory of washing with soap has been put on a satisfactory 
basis by Spring.- It is to him that we owe a very striking and instruc- 
tive experiment. If we filter a fine suspension of rouge or soot through 
lilter paper, some of the particles stick to the filter paper or, as we say, 
are adsorbed by it. If the liquid is filtered several times through the 
same paper, the water will finally run through clear, the particles of 
rouge or soot adhering to- the previously adsorbed particles and finally 
clogging the pores of the filter paper. If a soap solution be poured on 
the filter, a red or a black filtrate is obtained at once, almost as though 
one had punched a hole in the bottom of the filter with a glass rod. The 
soap forms a film round the rouge or the soot, removing the particles 
from the paper and thus allowing them to pass through. All the rest 
of the particles follow just as a log jam breaks when the key log is started. 
At first sight it seems as though the soap must have broken up the car- 
bon or the rouge into finer particles which then passed through the fil- 
ter, but there are two reasons for rejecting this hjqDothesis. In the first 
place, the experiment does not succeed if the rouge or the carbon is too 
coarse, and there is no apparent reason why the soap should not break 
up coarse particles if it can break up fine ones. In the second place. 
Spring showed that we are dealing with an adsorption of soot by filter 
paper. If the black filter paper be reversed and washed with water, 

^Zcit. KoUoidchemie, 4 (1909), p. 161; 6 (1910), pp. 11, 109, 164. 



358 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [J^ly 

only the carbon which is not in immediate contact with the paper is 
removed. 

Soap acts in a similar way in removing dirt or grease from fabrics or 
from the hands. The soap forms a film round the dirt or the grease, 
remo\dng it from actual contact with the liber or the skin, thus simpUfy- 
ing the task of washing it away with water. 

Ox-gall is also a colloidal solution and acts like soap. When discuss- 
ing the cleaning of woolen carpets, Owen' says: 

Beat and shake them thoroughly in a good breezy place to get out all dust. 
Have the floor scoured clean and, when dry, replace the carpet, and, if still 
much soiled and dingy, go all over the carpet with nx-gall and water. The 
secret of success is to clean and rinse them thoroughly without soaking them 
through. A pint of fresh ox-gall is put into a pail of clean soft water. With 
a brush rub up a lather upon about a square yard of the carpet by dipping the 
brush in the ox-gall and scrubbing with just the movement that raises a 
lather, but does not remove the fiber from the carpet. Now with a soft 
cloth or large sponge, not too wet, remove the lather, aiming to do this by fre- 
quent wringing out of the sponge in clear fresh water. After all is done, open 
the windows and the carpet will soon dry out. 

On page 114 of the same book Owen says that "skim milk and water 
with a very little glue or gelatine in it, made scalding hot, will restore 
rusty black crape. If clapped between the hands and pulled gently 
till dry, it will look as good as new." I do not know what makes black 
crape look rusty but I know that the important thing in the skimmed 
milk is the peptized casein. Since gelatine does not fonn a true solu- 
tion in water, the beneficial action is due to a peptized colloid and we 
do not need to consider what part is to be ascribed to the casein and 
what to the gelatine. 

Peptizing in several stages occurs when we treat a spot due to grease, 
rosin, or paint with oil which peptizes the substance forming the spot 
and which can itself be peptized readily by another colloid such as soap. 
Owen says (p. 90) : 

Grease spots are of the most common occurrence. To remove these from 
white fabrics is comparatively easy, but to remove Ihem from colored fabrics 
without at the same time doing injury to the color is often very dilTicult and 
sometimes impossible. Very much depends upon the skill and perseverance 
of the operator, (iood soap and water is the most universal solvent f(H- 

' Owen: The Dyeing and Cleaning of Textile Fabrics, VXf>, p. 100. 



I 



191 6J WASHING AND CLEANING 359 

greasy matters, and where there is no reason for not wetting the goods, soap 
and water should be tried. Grease spots from carriage wheels, sewing ma- 
chines, or any source containing iron from wear of bearings, or carbon from 
any source, red lead, or any insoluble colored substance, should first be rubbed 
thoroughly with some oil that is itself capable of being washed out with 
soap and water [such as 1 lard or fresh butter, olive oil, linseed oil, etc. 

Much depends on how this is done. Don't be afraid to use plenty of oil, 
butter, or lard, and then work with the fingers, bending the cloth back and 
forth as if you were breaking a wire, until upon holding it up to the light you 
see that the dark matter of the spot is completely and evenly distributed and 
worked up with the oil. VV'hen sure this result is accomplished, then work 
in a thick, cold, watery soap mass obtained by boiling up sliced laundry soap 
in water and allowing to cool. If on touching the dr\^ soap bar to the tongue, 
it does not "bite," it should have some sal-soda added to it in the boiling. 
Work the prepared soap into the cloth where the spot is, until the oil in its 
turn is worked up with the soap as thoroughly as the spot was with the oil. 
Now, and not before, wash out the spot with soapy water. Only with very old 
spots will any trace remain after this treatment. Grease spots succumb 
very well if rubbed up with kerosene, the kerosene rubbed up with new milk 
and the whole then worked with soap and water. 

In regard to paint Owen says (p. 103): 

Paint, when fresh, washes out as readily as any grease spot. As it ages 
and o.xidizes it becomes more and more difficult to soften and remove it. 
. . . . Oil the spot and rub the oil in patiently, striving to blend the spot 
with the oil. If the spot is very old, allow it to lie with the oil upon it for 
several days, rubbing occasionally to see if the paint is softening. A few 
drops of turpentine, kerosene, or any solvent for greasy matters may be 
added and worked in. Old lead paint is very persistent. Finally, wash out 
like a fresh grease spot. 

Grease or paraffin may be removed by placing blotting paper over 
and under the spot, and then apphing a hot iron. The grease is ad- 
sorbed by the paper and this method of cleaning therefore belongs in 
Class 7. A number of variations are possible. Fuller's eartJi may be 
substituted for the blotting paper and fruit stains for the grease. Wax 
may be removed with French chalk. Without using heat white woolen 
shawls can be cleaned by sprinkling them with rice or potato starch 
which adsorbs the dirt. Starch can also be used to take out iodine. An 
old-fashioned way of cleaning wall paper is to treat it with dough. 
Painters use bread as an eraser for charcoal drawings; this is an adsorp- 



360 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [j^lv 

lion rather than a mechanical removal. Velvet may be cleaned by 
sprinkling thoroughly with magnesia or corn meal, covering and let- 
ting stand twenty-four hours.* Furs may be cleaned with corn meal. 
The removal of grease paints from the face with cold cream comes under 
this head if one considers cold cream as a solid. A very interesting case 
under Class 7 was brought to my attention by Mr. C. P. Long of the 
Globe Soap Company. Starched lace curtains are placed in water with 
a diastase which converts the starch into soluble starch. When this is 
peptized by water, the dirt comes off with the starch without any rub- 
bing. Practically this is not the same as starching a dirty but un- 
starched curtain and then removing the starch, but I think that it is the 
same in principle. 

According to Owen (p. 175), small spots on broadcloth may be re- 
moved by treating the spot with a mixture of a pipe-clay, alcohol and 
turpentine. The alcohol and turpentine peptize the substance form- 
ing the spot and the pipe-clay then adsorbs it. Automobile grease 
can be removed fairly well in the same way, substituting fuller's earth 
for the pipe-clay. These are instances of peptization with a liquid, 
with subsequent adsorption by a solid. I have called this a separate 
class; but it could be put in under a sub-head if one preferred. 

In the last class I include all the methods which involve a change in 
the nature of the substance forming the spot. Under this head we 
class the methods involving the chemical action of acids, alkalies, ox}'- 
gen, hydrogen peroxide, chloride of lime, potassium permanganate, 
sodium hyposulphite, sulphur dioxide, and others. While these sub- 
stances are usually effective, they are very likely to damage the fabrics. 

I believe that the most interesting field for research in washing and 
cleaning is a study of the methods of adsorption by solids. 

* Balderston. Laundering, p. 113. 



1916J ANTIMONY FROM ENAAIELED COOKING UTENSILS 361 

THE SOLUTION OF ANTIMONY FROM ENAMELED COOKING 

UTENSILS' 

ELIZABETH W. MILLER 

University of Chicago 

The pur])ose of this series of experiments was to investigate the pos- 
sibility of the solution of harmful substances from enameled dishes in the 
cooking of foods. Harmful substances which may be present in enamels 
are lead, arsenic and antimony. 

Lead has always been used in glazes appUed to crockery ware, which 
must be fired at low temperatures. The peculiar advantage of lead 
gla2:es lies in their wide range of fusion, their low viscosity, and their 
brilliancy.2 While successful leadless glazes with low fusion point 
have been made, they lack the brilliancy of the lead glazes, and the loss 
from defective pieces is usually greater. The harder porcelain glazes 
used on fine tableware which can be fired at high temperatures usually 
contain no lead. In the case of sheet steel enameled ware, for which a 
glaze of great brilliancy is not necessary, it has been possible to use other 
substances to act as a flux. 

At the time when enameled cooking utensils began to supplant 
crockery ware in Europe, there had been considerable agitation over 
cases of lead poisoning ascribed to foods cooked in dishes covered with a 
lead containing glaze. Laws had been passed forbidding the sale of 
dishes which }ielded more than 2 mg. of lead per liter when boiled 
for one-half hour with 4 per cent acetic acid. Griinwald,^ a German 
authority on enameling, says that one very important reason for the 
popularity of this new enamel ware was the fact that it was advertised 
as being free from lead. Authorities seem to agree that lead has never 
been generally used in enamels. It was found, however, in one sauce- 
pan examined in this series of experiments, and so it seems that it is used 
occasionally. 

There is always added to enamels some substance to make the glaze 
opaque."* This is usually tin oxide. Other substances sometimes used 
are arsenic and antimony. Arsenic is said to be used only in enamels 

' Presented before the Biological Section of the American Chemical Society, University of 
lUinois, April 20, 1916. 

' Tech. Papers, Bur. of Standards, 31, Dec. 1913. 
' Griinwald, Tech. of Iron Enamelling and Tinning. 
* Trans. Am. Cer. Soc. 14 (1912), 740. 



362 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

for decorative purposes. Because of its relative cheapness, antimony 
is being substituted for tin, especially in cast iron enameled ware, such 
as bath tubs. Its use in cuHnary utensils was forbidden by law in Ger- 
many and Austria because of its possible harmful effect. No such laws 
exist in France, Belgium, or America.^ Griinwald, the authority quoted 
above, contends that enamels containing antimony can be made so 
resistant to chemicals, that practically none would be dissolved in the 
ordinary cooking processes. There could then, of course, be no objection 
to its use. In the experiments described below, however, dishes of one 
particular make were found to be very readily attacked by foods, and to 
yield antimony in considerable amounts. 

Tests were made, first for lead and later for antimony, on fifteen dif- 
ferent dishes, some of standard make and some cheap. In only one 
case was lead dissolved in more than traces, and there its presence may 
have been accidental, since similar results were not obtained with other 
saucepans of the same variety. Antimony was extracted in consider- 
able amounts from one dish. Therefore the time was spent chiefly on 
quantitative determinations of antimony dissolved by acetic acid and by 
various foods. 

The experimental work on lead will be described first. 

The dishes were filled with 4 per cent acetic acid, and boiled for one- 
half hour according to the method used by European investigators.' 
This solution was then tested for lead by the colorimetric method de- 
scribed in Leach for the detection of traces of lead in the presence of tin, 
iron, and copper.* 

Of the fifteen dishes so treated three saucepans of standard make 
which had been used in the cooking laboratory several months gave 
merest traces of lead. A fourth dish of the same make yielded slightly 
less than 2 mg. of lead per liter, three successive times. This result 
was so unexpected and so exceptional that two other tests were made to 
confirm the presence of lead.' As previously stated, the comparatively 
large amounts of lead in this dish may have been accidental, since 
three other saucepans of the same kind gave only traces. It should be 
noted here, however, that this dish which had been used in the laboratory 
for over a year still gave almost as much lead as the maximum permitted 
by the laws of Germany and France. This disproves the statements 

»Mavasuer, J. Nahr. (knussm.. 15 (1908), p. MH. 

* Leach, Food Insp. attd Anal., p. ')1<S. 

' Griinwald, Enamelling on Iron and Sled, 1909, p. 19. 



1916] ANTIMONY FROM ENAMELED COOKING UTENSILS 363 

sometimes made that all the soluble lead would be extracted the first 
two or three times the <lish was used. 

In the process of determining the lead, there was left, in each case, a 
considerable amount of a white residue. This was dissolved in sodium 
hydroxide, acidified with hydrochloric acid in excess, and this solution 
tested for arsenic, antimony, tin, aluminum and sihca. In one case a 
heavy orange precipitate which formed when H2S was passed through 
the solution proved to be antimony sulphide.* Tin was present in small 
amounts in the extract from all the other dishes, but no test for arsenic 
was obtained. Some silica was also present. 

The dish which yielded antimony was a cheap gray enamel kettle 
purchased at the ten cent store. The gloss was removed by the first 
treatment with acetic acid. After being used a second time the enamel 
had become much roughened, and a white powdery substance could be 
rubbed off with the fingers. 

After it was discovered that antimony was dissolved from this kettle, 
several other dishes of the same make were purchased, and quantitative 
determinations made of the amounts dissolved. Two methods of treat- 
ing the dishes were followed — first, the method used in testing for lead 
by boiling with 4 per cent acetic acid; second, by cooking various kinds 
of food in the dishes. A gravimetric method was used for determining 
the amounts of antimony dissolved by acetic acid. In the case of the 
foods, the organic matter was first destroyed and the antimony then 
determined volumetrically. 

The gravimetric method followed was one given by Clarke and 
Henz^ and used by Landrum^° in the analysis of enamels. The antimony 
was precipitated by H2S, dissolved in yellow ammonium sulphide re- 
precipitated by hydrochloric acid, and the pentasulphide reduced to 
the trisulphide by heating in a stream of CO2 at a temperature of 230°C, 
In three successive determinations, 34 mg., 33.7 mg., and 31 mg. of 
Sb2S3 or 26.5 mg., 26.3 mg. and 24.2 mg. of metallic antimony were 
obtained. 

Since only small amounts of so strong an acid as 4 per cent acetic 
would ever be eaten at one time, an investigation as to the amounts of 
antimony dissolved by foods cooked in such dishes was undertaken. 

It was first necessary to find a method by which the organic matter 

« Stieglitz, Qual. And.. 2, p. 107. 
' Tread well, Quan. Anal., p. 188. 
'"Trans. Am. Car. Soc, 12 (1910), p. 144. 



364 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

of the foods could be oxidized without volatilizing the antimony, and by 
which the antimony could be recovered quantitatively. W. Schmitz'^ 
in analyzing rubber goods for antimony destroyed the organic matter 
by a modified Kjeldahl oxidation. To test out this method 31.8 mg. 
and 54.6 mg. of SbaOs were added to two portions of boiling grape juice. 
The grape juice was transferred to Kjeldahl flasks and 20 cc. of sulphuric 
acid added together with a very small drop of mercury. The flask 
was then heated on a sand bath until the organic matter was completely 
charred. Considerable foaming occurred during this process, so that 
constant watching was necessary to prevent loss. Later this difficulty 
was largely overcome by evaporating the fruit juice to about 20 cc. 
before adding sulphuric acid. After charring, more acid and 2-5 grams 
of potassium sulphate were added and the flask again heated till a clear 
solution was obtained. In this solution the antimony was determined 
by a carefully controlled iodine titration. ^^ n -^^l^ gj-gt cooled and then 
diluted sufficiently to prevent charring of the tartaric acid which was 
added to keep the antimony in solution. Finally the mercuric sulphate 
was reduced to metallic mercury, and the pentavalent antimony re- 
duced to trivalent by the addition of 1-2 grams of potassium bisulphite. 
After heating again on the sand bath until the sulphur dioxide was 
completely driven off, the contents of the flask was made up to 250 cc. 
and filtered. 

The determination was then completed according to the volumetric 
method given by Mohr. Two hundred cubic centimeters of the filtrate 
was just neutralized with sodium carbonate, made alkaline with a 
saturated sodium bicarbonate solution, and titrated with jt iodine. A 
better end point was obtained by adding an excess of about 0.5 cc. of 
iodine, and titrating back to the disappearance of the blue color. 

In addition to these two experiments 173 mg., 96 mg., and 33 mg. 
respectively were dissolved with tartaric and dilute sulphuric acids, and 
the solution neutraHzed and titrated as before. The results from these 
five determinations checked within 0.2 per cent. 

The method having been satisfactorily tested, foods were cooked in the 
dishes containing antimony, and the amounts determined as described. 
First, acid fruit juices — cider, grape juice, and cranberry pulj) — were 
tried. Finally, spinach and milk were cooked in the dishes. 

In the first series of experiments two new dishes were used, one 
37 sq. cm. larger at the bottom than the* othir. 

" Gummi, Ztg. 25 (1913), p. 1928. 
'». Sutton, Vol. Anal., p. 151. 



1916] ANTIMONY FROM ENAMELED COOKING UTENSILS 365 

One hundred and fifty cubic centimeters of grape juice diluted with 100 
cc. of water, 250 cc. of cider, and 200 cc. of cranberry' pulp in the order 
given were boiled for forty-five minutes in each of the two dishes. The 
fruit juice was then transferred to a Kjeldahl flask and the analysis 
carried out as previously described. 

The amounts of antimony obtained were as follows : 

From the smaller dish the grape juice extracted 6.2 mg., the cider 6 
mg., and the cranberries 14.1 mg. From the larger dish, grape juice 
dissolved 3.3 mg., cider 3.6 mg. and the cranberries 9.4 mg. 

The first point noted in these results is that the smaller dish yielded 
greater amounts of antimony than the larger. This is probably merely 
due to the fact that the cheap dishes are not always equally well fired, 
and consequently the enamel is not equally resistant to solvents. 

The elTect of these fruit juices on the appearance of the enamel was as 
marked as when 4 per cent acetic acid was used. The first cooking 
with grape juice removed the gloss and after the cranberries had been 
boiled in the dish the enamel felt rough and the fingers were whitened 
when rubbed across it. 

The large amount of antimony found in the cranberries is interesting. 
Mavasucr also found in experimenting on lead glazes that cranberry 
sauce dissolved relatively large amounts.* It is quite probable in 
this particular case that a thick pulp like cranberry sauce would, in boil- 
ing, actually rub off some of the enamel. Some of this antimony may 
not be in solution but simply held in suspension. 

In the next group of experiments 250 cc. of undiluted grape juice 
and an equal amount of cider were boiled for forty-five minutes, four 
successiv'e times in two dishes of exactly the same size and shape. This 
was to find Avhether the amounts of antimony dissolved increased or 
diminished each time the dish was used. 

The amounts extracted by the cider were 2.5 mg., 5.5 mg., 3.3 mg. 
(some of the cider was lost in oxidation) and 7.8 mg. In the case of 
the grape juice 8.3 mg. were dissolved in the first cooking and 10.8 mg. in 
fourth. 

These results show that for the first few times at least, the amounts 
of antimony dissolved increased each time the dish was used. This 
increase would probably not continue indefinitely, however. 

The acidity of the grape juice and cider was determined by titrating 
with tIt sodium hydroxide, using phenolphthalein as indicator for 
the cider. None was necessary for the grape juice. Undiluted grape 



366 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

juice was found to have an acidity of 0.14 normal, the cider was 0.10 
normal. 

In comparing the solvent action of these fruit juices with that of 4 
per cent acetic acid which is 0.67 normal, the weaker fruit juices seem 
to be much more effective. The largest amount of antimony dissolved 
in 1500 cc. of 4 per cent acetic was 26 mg., while 250 cc. of grape juice 
removed 10.8 mg. and 200 cc. of cranberry pulp contained 14 mg. It 
would not be fair to compare these results directly since there was 
relatively much more surface exposed to the small amounts of grape 
juice and cranberries than to the 1500 cc. of acetic acid; it would seem 
reasonable, however, that since antimony forms a large number of soluble 
organic compounds, these fruit juices should be very effective in dis- 
solving this substance. 

In a third experiment 125 grams of spinach (about one medium serv- 
ing) was cooked in two dishes which had already been used for the fruit 
juices; 250 cc. of water was added and the vegetable cooked twenty 
minutes, after which the hquor and soUd spinach were transferred to 
separate flasks. 

In one case the liquor contained 7 mg. antimony, the solid spinach, 
2.7 mg.; in the second case the liquor contained 3.9 mg., the solid 
spinach 2.3 mg. 

A question arose as to the effect of the iron in spinach on the accuracy 
of these results. Clarke says that traces of iron need not be considered 
in this determination.^' To make certain, a dilute solution of ferric 
chloride was acidified, reduced with potassium bisulphite, neutralized, 
and titrated with iodine. The first drop turned the solution blue, so 
it was not considered necessary to make any correction for iron in the 
spinach. The other foods contained smaller amounts of iron. 

Finally 200 cc. of sweet milk was boiled in each of the two dishes used 
for spinach, for a period of ten minutes, and then allowed to stand for an 
hour and a half. The results obtained here were 3.1 mg. and 2.3 mg, 
of antimony respectively, less than from the other foods but still con- 
siderable. 

Summarizing briefly the results of cooking various foods in these 
dishes, it was found that in every case some antimony had been dis- 
solved. Various factors seemed to influence the amount namely, the 
acidity, the number of times the dish had been used, the amount of 
abrasion due to foo*! rubbing against the enamel, and probably the tem- 

•» Sutton, Vol. Anal., p. 152. 



1916] ANTIMONY FROM ENAMELED COOKING UTENSILS 367 

peraturc and the length of time food was left in the dish, although 
no experiments were performed which directly proved these two latter 
points. 

The fact that this particular enamel is so readily attacked would 
probably prevent its use by intelligent housewives, but among the 
poorer, less intelligent women it might be used without question. If the 
presence of antimony in foods is harmful, certainly the sale of such dishes 
should be checked. 

As to the physiological efl"ects of antimony, very little seems to be 
known e.xccpt that antimony compounds act as emetics. I understand 
that the Public Service Health Laboratory is making a study of the 
toxicity of antimony compounds. According to the 1914 edition of 
Hare's Therapeutics, the medicinal use of antimony is no longer in favor 
with physicians. He says, 

Tartar emetic is harmful if irritation of the stomach is present, or if renal 
inflammation is present. If one good sized emetic dose is not sufficient to 
produce vomiting it should not be repeated, but some other emetic or the 
stomach pump be used, lest antimonial poisoning complicate the case. The 
emetic dose must be large enough to be effective or none at all should be given. 
If this rule is disregarded, systemic changes come on with undesirable severity 
in those cases where emesis fails to occur because of small doses.'* 

In Bulletin 96 of the U. S. Public Health Service Hygiene Laboratory 
for 1914, a warning was given to mothers against the use for milk 
bottles of rubber nipples containing antimony.'^ From six grams of the 
shredded rubber, subjected for one and one-half hours to normal saliva 
and saliva acidified with lactic acid, 0.1 mg. and 0.8 mg. respectively 
were dissolved. As a result of these experiments it was concluded that 
the use of such nipples might be dangerous. 

The average dose of tartar emetic as given by the U. S. Pharmaco- 
poeia is 30 mg. for an adult and 3 mg. for a 15 pound infant, or 5 mg. 
and 0.5 mg. of metallic antimony respectively. On the basis of these 
figures I cup (200 cc.) of cranberries contained almost 3 adult doses of 
antimony and \ cup (200 cc.) of milk contained six times an infant's 
dose. 

It seems that this question of the physiological eiTects of antimony 
should be further investigated. We should know also how general has 
become the use of antimony in enameled ware. 

'< Hare, Textbook of Prac. Tlier., 1914, p. 91. 

'* U. S. Pub. Health Service Lab. Bui. 96, p. 56, 1914. 



368 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Julv 

THE TRAINING OF THE COUNTY AGENT 

KATHARINE A. PRITCHETT 
State Agent in Charge Home Economics Extension, Maryland 

Let US define the term "County Agent." A county agent is one who 
demonstrates, both practically and scientifically, subjects which per- 
tain to home and community betterment. She may give these demon- 
strations to groups or clubs, or she may demonstrate to the indi\ddual 
farm woman or girl in the home. Before she can do the latter she must 
gain the confidence of the housewife. Often some simple service ren- 
dered the housewife at the psychological moment in a quiet, unobtru- 
sive manner opens up the pathway to her heart. She resents the 
teacher, but she soon learns to welcome the cooperator and helper. 
Once the county agent has proved her ability in these capacities, she 
becomes a source of inspiration, then a counselor, and, as her field of 
activities leads her from the home into the community, she becomes a 
leader among the women of her county. 

The problems confronting the county agent are as broad and as com- 
prehensive as the family, the home, and the community. To meet 
these problems successfully she must possess a personality which disarms 
criticism and arouses enthusiasm, a power to sense situations quickly, 
and an adaptability which enables her to render the most humble serv- 
ice with a willingness that wins admiration. 

When the work began, some thirteen years ago, the woman \\ith prac- 
tical experience in gardening, camiing, and kindred subjects, who had 
the ability to gain the confidence of the farm woman, met the require- 
ments for the position of county agent. During the succeeding years 
the work has developed until now the county agent's actixities are 
highly diversified. She may give a canning or a gardening demonstra- 
tion in the morning, a lecture on "Foods in Relation to Disease" before 
the Civic Club in the afternoon, and in the evening she may show iKe 
farmers and their wives how they may have running water in their 
homes. 

The mail also proves very interesting. A letter may be receival 
kindly requesting " the very* best and latest methods of preserving 
eggs;" a i)ostal, "please fonvard drtuilcd information on coojHTalive 
marketing. Sincerely yours," etc. 

Should one enter upon such a large field, presenting s<") many jirob- 



1916J THE TRAINING OF THE COUNTY AGENT 369 

lems and possibilities as extension work, ^v^thout the broad training of 
both the world and the school? Is this training to be only along the 
lines of household science? She who is to enter into so many house- 
hold activities must have a broad training in household science and 
theor>' as well as practice if she is to compete wth these activities suc- 
cessfully. But this is not all. The training of the county agent must 
be such as to broaden her sympathy for humanity, develop tact and 
self-control, and inspire her with an enthusiasm which she can pass on 
to others. 

If, through a demonstration or lecture, a county agent can create a 
demand for the best in labor-saving devices and so lessen the expendi- 
ture of energ>' of the housewife; or create a desire to break from hamper- 
ing traditions and methods of work or to grow a vegetable garden that 
the family may have a more wholesome diet; or awaken the family to a 
greater realization of their ability to help the community; or if she can 
transfigure drudgery — if she can do any one of these — the result is more 
far-reaching than half a dozen lessons which fail to create a demand for 
follow-up work. "The best extension service is that which leaves a 
community doing most for itself." 

Practical experience in organizing and developing Home Economics 
extension work through the medium of the county agent convinces me 
that the county agent's usefulness to her community is limited only 
by the amount of her training and experience and by her capacity to 
sense opportunities to render valuable service to the farm woman. 

Does the training of a county agent affect the general organization? 
Undoubtedly. "Organization in the largest meaning of the word is a 
wise combination of materials, equipment and workers for the purpose." 
The logical beginning, therefore, for an efficient organization is a scien- 
tific selection and assignment of workers who will give unscheduled 
cooperation and genuine Hvely and loyal support to the whole move- 
ment. Large sums of money, the best and most modern equipment, 
and most intelligently devised methods of work, will not increase 
the efficiency of the organization unless the county agent is fitted by 
nature and training for her duties. The untrained worker may be very 
practical, and practice is very necessary, but there is the larger side of 
the work — science — and this is the foundation for all practical work. 
A knowledge of either phase of the work exclusive of the other is a detri- 
ment to the highest development. No county agent should attempt to 



370 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

instruct a farm woman, who usually has a varied practical experience, 
until she herself knows homemaking subjects both practically and 
scientifically. 

If the home demonstration movement is to render the greatest serv- 
ice to the people it must be carried on by women fitted into the right 
place at the right time with the right training, guidance, and supervision. 
Science or practice alone stands for one-sided work. Science plus 
practice stands for efficiency. 



STANDARD FOR IMPORTED MILK 

Canadian health officials and inspectors of the United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture are cooperating in securing sanitary shipments of 
milk. 

Milk or cream imported into the United States from Canada must 
comply with the requirements demanded of dairymen by the Dominion 
of Canada authorities, as well as the requirements of the United States 
Food and Drugs Act. Dairy products which do not come up to these 
requirements are stopped at the international border. 

Under this arrangement all dairies from which milk is shipped into 
the United States must attain a well balanced dairy score of 50 on the 
basis of a possible 100 points. Secondly, the product itself must meet 
the standards required of milk produced in the United States. 



1916] AN INTERNATIONAL EPISODE 371 

*'AX IXTERNA'llONAL EPISODE" 

The Journal readers will remember that the American Home Eco- 
nomics Association voted at the Seattle meeting to become a member 
of the International Congress of Home Economics that maintains an 
office at Fribourg, Switzerland. We are glad to print the following letter 
received in answer to the report of this vote sent by the Secretar>' to the 
International Office. 

OFFICE INTERNATIONAL DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT MfiNAGER 

(Fribourg, Suisse) 
Fonde en 1908 

Fribourg, Ic 24 February, 1916. 
Mrs. Alice P. Norton, 

Hon. Secretary of The American Home Economics Association, Chicago 

Dear Mrs. Norton: 

I beg to acknowledge the receipt of your kind letter of February the 1st 
and am glad to express to you the great pleasure I had in hearing about the 
vote of the American Home Economics Association seeing that way the oppor- 
tunity of getting better acquainted with the American workers. 

In accordance with resolutions passed by the International Committee at 
the Congress of Gand (Ghent) 1913 the Societies contributing by an annual 
subscription of at least fr. 100 shall have the right to be represented by a dele- 
gate in the Committee of the International Office. You only need to give 
your adhesion to the Federation, and as soon as you have proceeded to the 
nomination of your delegate, let us know your choice. 

The library of the Office has now nearly one thousand books dealing with 
Household Science (in French, German, EngUsh and Itahan). Till now we have 
been publishing the new works in each number of the Bulletin but we had no 
real catalogue. We are just busy elaborating one; as soon as it is ready, we 
are going to send you a copy that you may choose the books or periodicals 
you are desirous of obtaining. 

Let me thank you very heartily and ask of you to be my interpreter to the 
Managing Editor and the other members of the Editorial staff for the very 
kind notice concerning our International Office in the Journal of Home 
Economics, January, 1916. We shall be very glad to take up as soon as 
possible our regular activities. 

Assuring you of my respectful consideration, I remain 
Thankfully yours, 

Le Directeur, 

(Signed) Leon Genoud. 



372 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

AN outlinp:» 

EDUCATION FOR THE HOME 

1 . The Family as an Institution 

1. Nature and history 

2. Legal regulation of marriage and divorce 

3. Reciprocal duties of husband and wife 

2. Public and Private Aspects of Parenthood 

1. Ante-natal conditions 

2. Care of the child 

3. Reciprocal rights of parent and child 

4. Reciprocal rights of community and child 

3. The Housewife as Director of Consumption 

1. Choice and maintenance of shelter 

2. Choice, preparation, and care of food 

3. Manufacture and selection of clothing 

4. Management, equipment, service, and accounts 

5. Participation in pubHc control of interests affecting the home, 

e.g., housing, health, food, industry, education, recreation 

4. The Housewife in Relation to Aesthetic, Social, and Ethical Stand- 

ards in : 

1. Recreation. 

2. Hospitality 

3. Philanthropy 

4. Citizenship 

TRAINING ADAPTED TO THE NEEDS OF 

1 . Domestic Life 

1. Well-to-do woman in her home, i.e., administrator and spender 

2. Independent homemaker with limited income, i.e., house- 

keeper, cook, nurse, dressmaker, and cleaner 

2. Gainful Employment 

1. Teacher of Home Economics and Household Arts 

2. Institutional manager 

3. Dietitian 

4. Visiting housekeeper 

5. Investigator 

3. Effective and Progressive Citizenship 

' Presented at the University of Chicago Quarter- Centennial, 1891-1916, by the Dc 
partment of Household .\dministration. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

CLOTHES AND THE INCOME 

CHARLOTTE GIBBS BAKER 

Woman's freedom from many of her former household duties has left 
her chief spender for the family. Many women who have not found 
more profitable use for their time make spending their chief occupation, 
and clothes the chief object of that spending. That the family income 
is not always wisely spent goes without saying; that there is an enor- 
mous waste in the expenditure for women's clothes all will agree. For 
those who seriously try to spend wisely, the problem is complicated by 
those who spend foolishly, as the demands of the latter help determine 
the offerings of the market, and influence the rapid changing of the 
fashions. 

Statistics and budgets show that from five to twenty per cent of the 
family income is expended for clothes. Five per cent in the case of the 
very small income where the standard of dress in necessarily low, twenty 
in the case of the family of moderate income whose social standards 
make heav>^ demands on the wardrobe. These statistics however do 
not show with what success the family is clothed on these different 
amounts, and ob\iously there is a great variation in the results ob- 
tained by different women with the same amount of money. 

If clothing were to be supplied for protection only, the problem of 
making the dress budget fit the income would not be difficult even in 
families of very moderate means. It is the demand for decoration, 
novelty, variety, and style, and the ever increasing demand for differ- 
ent dress for different occasions which makes the struggle never ending. 
It is the ever present desire on the part of a certain t^pe of women to 
do as do the leaders of fashion, the actresses, and others in the limelight, 
which causes much of our inappropriate dressing. Women whose social 
demands do not require elaborate clothes wear them on the street, and 
strain every nerve, as well as the family purse, to keep up to the top 
notch of fashion. 

373 



374 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (July 

The woman who spends wisely for clothes not only knows how to 
buy, but has detinite ideals for her goal. The success with which she 
clothes the family depends on her personal taste and, in cu.se the income 
is limited, upon her skill. This skill need not necessarily be skill in 
needlework, but skill in making the best of what she has, in combining 
materials, in utilizing left overs, and, most of all, in bringing out the 
personality of the individual by the clothes she wears. If fashion alone 
is the guide, extravagance and waste will result, and, while the family 
may be well dressed according to one standard, they may be exceedingly 
commonplace and utterly lacking in individuaUty of dress. 

For a long time the schools tried to make up for the lack of home train- 
ing by teaching sewing in the class room, feeling that by tliis method 
they were sohing the clothing problem. They are now fast coming to 
see that the clothing problem is a much larger one, and that the knowl- 
edge of sewing is not necessarily the most needful thing. As much of 
the food formerly prepared in the household is now prepared outside, 
so much of the sewing has passed out and it can not be brought back, 
nor is it necessarily desirable that it should be. After sewing, the next 
thing taught was the study of textiles in order to give the buyer better 
standards in choosing materials. Now^ costume design, the study of 
hygiene, and the cost of clothing have been added, and the attempt is 
being made to set better standards in the whole problem of dress. 

The clothes worn by many of our high school girls at the present time 
do not speak well for the standards of their mothers, or for the standards 
of the coming generation of mothers. It is with these girls that the 
ground is fallow for the planting of the seed, but those who plant must 
do so carefully. The shop girl is often blamed for the inappropriate- 
ness of her dress, but, if all women who shopped set a good example, 
there would probably be little need to criticize the girl behind the 
counter. 

In spite of the fact that the streets are throngeil with extravagantly 
and inapi)ropriately dressed women, it is true that more and more 
women do dress appropriately. More and more women are studying 
the clothing budget seriously and are buying intelligently. At conven- 
tions of thinking women the appropriate, well groomed, inconspicuous 
dress of the majority shows a great improvement over the dress of such 
meetings not many years ago. Such women have studied the dress 
problem and found that a harmonious costume of good material, well 
made, following the more conservative lines of the fashion, may be 



1916J CLOTHES AND THE INCOME 375 

worn on many occasions. They have found that one costume which is 
perfect in all its details is better than several not so perfect. They have 
learned that dress should emphasize and not subordinate personality. 

For the woman who is limited in her expenditures the problem is of 
course harder, and the need for skill greater. Here, too, a few well 
made clothes, not extreme in style and chosen with due regard to the 
occasions on which they must be worn, seem most desirable. Care in 
selection should be exercised so that one hat may be worn with more 
than one dress, that gloves and other accessories, and all the different 
parts of the costume may be harmonious. In the choice of color and 
material those things should be bought which will be appropriate to 
most occasions. A few well chosen accessories of good quality may be 
used over and over and in the end prove less extravagant than cheap 
ones. 

The keeping of a clothing budget is exceedingly helpful, particularly 
in showing from year to year what things were economical and what 
extravagant. Each problem is an indivdiual one and must be studied 
as such; a rule which works for one person may not work for the next. 
It may be great economy for the woman at home, who is skillful with 
her needle, to have several inexpensive dresses which she makes for 
herself, while for the next woman it is much better economy to have one 
good dress made to order. For one, ready made clothing may be very 
satisfactory, for the next not at all so. 

Women are too likely to think of economy only in terms of dollars 
and cents. In comparing the cost of different garments the time ele- 
ment is often neglected. To one woman a ready made garment seems 
expensive because she compares it only with the cost of the material in 
a garment she herself makes, while she considers an article on which she 
has put hours of time cheap, if the cloth did not cost much. The length 
of life of a garment, the satisfaction gained from it, and the cost of main- 
tenance must all be considered. A cotton and wool skirt may be in- 
expensive in the first place, but is a poor investment if it must always be 
at the pressers. Neither does a cheap dress that hangs in the closet be- 
cause one does not like it prove an economy. 

More training along artistic lines would undoubtedly lead to a better 
appreciation of the beautiful in dress, and consequently a reaction 
against the grotesque, as we often have it in our current fashions. One 
has only to look at an average collection of old photographs to see how 
much of the popularity of many of our designs in dress is due solely to 



376 Tiir: journal of homk economics [July 

fashion, and not to intrinsic beauty. The original design of a costume 
worked out in beautiful materials by an artist, for a particular indi- 
\'idual may have been beautiful. Modified for fat or slim, reproduced 
in inexpensive materials by the ordinary dressmaker, the beauty is often 
entirely lost, and, as a result, when the fashion passes the dress is use- 
less. 

It is only when we have high standards for our clothes, together with 
considerable knowledge of buj-ing and skill in planning, that we can, 
with a limited income, get the very best results in dress. We need to 
spend less time and money and more intelligent thought on our ward- 
robes if we are to have time for the many other things so well worth 
doing. 



CLOTHING BUDGETS 

The following estimates for clothing budgets are taken from a leaflet 
prepared by the head of the Personal Serv'ice Bureau at Filene's in 
Boston. A comparison between this budget, with everything purchased 
read>Tnade, and that of the Montana student, published in the April 
Journal and commented on in this issue, where everything was made 
at home, shows that the total expenditure for each is about equal, but 
that the amount is differently distributed. 

The following is one of the suggestions made to help in planning the 
budget. 

In working out your plan, decide definitely whether your outfit is to 
center around a suit or a coat. If you have decided that it is to be a suit, 
purcha.se up to it in every detail, eliminating every other t>pc of dress or 
costume. If it is to be a coat, dresses and accessories must be developed 
in your plan. 

These plans may be rotated vc:v cfTectivcly, working out one 1\ih; ol 
costume one year, the other, the following year, being careful to make har- 
monious selections that may later be combined together. The budget, of 
course, assumes some clothing on hand and represents the purchase for one 
year. 

The prices given are those for which the goods were actually sold. 



1916] 



CLOTHING BUDGETS 



377 



Seventy-Five 

For Coat and Dress Plan 



Coat 

Homespun, which may be worn 
for all occasions* 

Dresses 

Serge or corduroy* $5.00 

Dancing frock, must serve 

two years* 9.75 

Linen or cotton dress for 
summer* 5 . 00 

Skirt 

White or colored for summer 

Waist 

One new one, with what we 
have 

Hats 

Purchased a velvet or velour 
last year ($5), and will buy a 
good Panama this year to 
serve two years 

Corsets. One pair at 

Repair last year's for alter- 
nate days 

Shoes 

1 i>air high boots, winter. .$4.00 
1 pair Oxfords, summer 4.00 

1 pair rubbers* 29 

Hosiery 

If 9 pairs were purchased last 
year, plan on 6 pairs 

Underwear 

Knit, 3 vests at 25 cents each $0 . 75 

2 union suits at SI each. ... 2.00 
Muslin, 3 envelope chemises 

at $1; 2 corset covers at 25 
cents 3.50 

3 night-gowns at $1 each. . . 3.00 
Gloves 

Summer, 1 pair silk $1.00 

2 p>airs fabric* 1 .00 

Winter, 1 pair for business 1 . 50 
1 pair for dress 1 .00 

Petticoat 

Sateen, blue or black 

Sweater*. 

Sundries. Repairs, etc 



$10.00 



19.75 



2.50 
2.00 

5.00 

2.50 
8.29 

2.50 
9.25 



4.50 



1.00 

2.00 
5.70 



Dollars A Yea* 

The Tailored Type of Outfit 

Suit, blue serge or cheviot* $12 . ,S0 

Waists 9.90 

3 cotton, $1 each... $3.00 

1 wash silk 2.95 

1 crepe de chine 3.95 

Hats 5.00 

Repair last year's hats for every- 
day wear. Purchased a good Pan- 
ama ($5) last year, which, with 
renovating, will serve this summer. 
A good velour or velvet purchased 
this year will serve nexi. year. 

Corsets. One new pair 3 . 50 

(Repair old pair to wear alter- 
nately) 

Shoes 8.29 

1 pair high boots $4.00 

1 pair Oxfords 4.00 

1 pair rubbers* 29 

(Make pair of shoe trees) 

Dress 

Dinner or dancing frock, last year's 
Hosiery 3 . 75 

9 pairs (guaranteed) 
Underwear 

Knit, 3 vests, 25 cents 

each, 75 cents 

2 union suits, $1 each, $2 
Muslin, 3 envelope 
chemises, crepe, $3 

2 corset covers, 25 cents \ 6 . 50 
each, 50 cents 

3 nightgowns, $1 each, $3^ 
Gloves 

1 silk, for summer $1 . 50 

2 fabric, for summer, 50 cents 

each 1.00 

1 dress kid, winter 1 . 50 

1 business pair, winter 1 . 50 

Skirt 

White pique, or linen for summer 

Petticoats 

Sateen, blue or black $1 .00 

2 white cotton crepe 1 .00 

Sweater, purchased last year 

Negligee 2 . 00 

Sundries. Repairs, etc 9.81 



9.25 



$2.75 



5.50 



3.50 



2.00 



$74.99 
*The articles marked with a * were purchased at a basement sale. 



$75.00 



378 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[July 



This further estimate of the per cent to be used for each type of 
clothing in diflerent budgets is suggestive. 



Seventy-Five Dollars A Year 



Tailored Type 

Hats 1 

Suits 1 47.9 per cent 

Skirts I Outer clothes 

Waists J 

Negligee 

Underwear 

Corsets , 

Shoes 

Stockings 

Rubbers 

Gloves 

Neckwear 

Repairs 



Coai and Dress Plan 

Coat, Dresses 1 

Skirts, Hat 1 55 per cent 



21 per cent 
Under clothes 

16 per cent 
Protection clothes 

15.1 per cent 
Sundry clothes 



Sweater. . . 
Waists .... 
Negligee. . . 
Underwear. 
Corsets — 

Shoes 

Stockings. . 
Rubbers. . . 
Gloves .... 
Neckwear. . 
Repairs 



Not Over $400 A Year 



Hats, Coats 

Suits, Dresses 

Sweater ^ 53.3 per cent 

Skirts I Outer clothes 

Waists 

Negligee ^ 

Underwear 

Corsets, Brassieres 



Tailored Type 
Shoes. 



16.2 per cent 
Under clothes 



Rubbers. . 
Hosier}'. . . 
Umbrella. 
Sunshade. 
Neckwear. 
Gloves .... 
Repairs. . . 



Outer clothes 



17 percent 
Under clothes 

14.4 per cent 
Protection clothes 

13.6 per cent 
Sundry clothes 



12.8 per cent 
Protection clothes 



17.7 per cent 
Sundry clothes 



A CAMP FOR (^OMMUTKRS 

Amusement parks, recreation grounds, and orchestral concerts are no 
novelty in the plans which street-car lines have tried as a means of in- 
creasing the volume of their business. Camp homes for j)eople who must 
spend their days in the city during the summer are more of a novelty, but 
suggest an enteq^rise which, properly operated, might be very desirable. 

Such a summer camj), called "Tent City," has been operated for two 
years by one of the Washington. D. C., street railways. The attendance 
last summer was 150 persons for week-ends and 75 for a week or more, 
which was somewhat greater than the preceding summer. The "Tent 



1916J A CAMP FOR COMMUTERS 379 

City" occupies an open, wooded hilltop near the terminal of the street 
railway and is very pleasantly situated, overlooking, as it does, the Great 
Falls of the Potomac. The frequent street-car service makes it con- 
venient of access and the fact that the road passes through some beautiful 
Virginia country makes the trip to and from the city more agreeable for 
commuters. 

The "Tent City" consists of a group of some 25 tent cottages scat- 
tered in regular order over the grounds. Each tent has a wooden floor 
and a large back porch, is electrically lighted, and is furnished with enam- 
eled bedsteads, blankets, bed linen, towels, rugs, wash hand stand, chairs, 
etc., in fact, a reasonably generous equipment for camping-out purposes. 
Arrangements are also made for maid service. Shower baths are pro- 
xided for the residents and several toilets are conveniently located in the 
camp. The camp water supply comes from a spring which is said to be 
free from contamination, a statement probably true since there are no 
houses in the immediate neighborhood and the ground is high. Ice is 
supplied free for cooling the drinking water. There is a cafe in the 
camp — an open, wooden building — where meals are served at moderate 
prices. If one does not care to patronize the cafe, light housekeeping 
is permitted in the tents. Considering all that is provided, the rates, 
which are $5 per week per tent regardless of the number of occupants, 
or $15 per month, are not high. If the occupants prefer light house- 
keeping, an additional charge of 50 cents per week is made for an extra 
tent with open sides and fly top, for cooking purposes. The sides could 
be closed in with mosquito netting without difliculty and this might 
reasonably be expected from the management. Thorough screening of 
the kitchen and the dining pavilion should be insisted upon, not only 
for the comfort of the diners but more for their protection from flies, 
now absolutely known to be one of the most dangerous pests of a summer 
outing. Large flytraps of the sort used so often in municipal cam- 
paigns against flies would help greatly to diminish the number of flies, 
and their use should not be overlooked. 

It is generally recognized that those who go into the country for sum- 
mer outings, particularly in states and regions where health regulations 
are either inadequate or not well enforced, run a decided risk of typhoid 
and other diseases, including the sometimes mild and the sometimes 
violent disturbances we know as "summer complaint" and "ptomaine 
poisoning;" and a colony such as "Tent City" is of course subject to the 
usual dangers of temporary life in places not thoroughly equipped with 



380 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

sanitary conveniences and not subject to strict accounting under munici- 
pal health regulations — though it is only fair to say that in this instance 
more has been done than in many a more pretentious sunmier colony. 

The idea which has been developed here seems a good one and there is 
no reason why it should not be improved and carried out further. So 
arranged, an open-air place for spending leisure evenings, week-ends, 
or longer periods, is bound to benefit many who could not leave the city 
to escape the hot weather. Its moderate price makes it accessible to 
many. Generally speaking, it seems a logical development of the pres- 
ent rather widely spread movement for private camps located on river 
banks and hillsides, lakes, and elsewhere, which are now so commonly 
found near numbers of our large cities, where the mothers and children 
can spend the entire day, while the members of the family who must go 
to town to work, can make the journey to and fro easily, quickly, and at 
little expense. 



SOME OTHER EXPERIMENTS ON THE COMPARATIVE COST 
OF HOMEMADE AND BAKER'S BREAD 

MAY B. VAN ARSDALE AND DAY MONROE 
Teachers College, Columbia University 

Having read with great interest the article on the comparative cost 
of homemade and baker's bread, by Annabelle Marsh, in The Journal 
OF Home Economics for January, 1916, we are more than ever impressed 
with the difliculty of standardizing such exi)eriments so that the results 
obtained may be fairly compared. The cost of material from time to 
time, the richness of the recipe, the brand of yeast, the amount 2.nd 
kind of fuel used, and the basis upon whicli it is calculated, all being 
so variable, give rise to many dilTerent results. Therefore it may be of 
interest to the readers of the Journal to consider a series of experiments 
which were carried on through a number of successive years, and under 
varying conditions, which have resulted in quite dilTerent conclusions 
from those drawn in the article above mentioned. The work was done 
by Miss Lucile French and Miss Elsa Frame in classes in experimental 
cookery. 



191 6J COMPAR.\TlVE COST OF HOMEMADE AND BAKER's BREAD 



381 



In all of our experiments the cost of homemade and baker's bread 
per pound has amounted to almost exactly the same figure, that is six 
cents. In these calculations the cost of the fuel has been considered 
but no value has been placed on the woman's time. The following are 
some of the results from which our conclusions were drawn: 

Table showing Ihe cost per pound oj baker's bread purchased in New York City and vicinity 



COST 


WEIGHT IN OUNCES 


COST PEE POUND 


$0.10 


20 


$0.08 


.10 


27.2 


.058 


.10 


21.5 


.074 


.12 


29.1 


.065 


.05 


13.0 


.061 


.10 


24.6 


.065 


.05 


15.5 


.051 


.05 


11.5 


.069 


.05 


12.5 


.064 


.05 


14.0 


.057 


.05 


13.5 


.059 


.10 


22.0 


.073 


.05 


14.7 


.053 


.05 


12.8 


.062 


.10 


23.0 


.069 


.05 


11.7 


.068 


.05 


13.5 


.059 



Least for five cents 10 oz. 

Most for five cents IS . 5 oz. 

Average cost per pound $ . 063 



In our laboratory experiments bread was made by several different 
methods, varying especially the amount of shortening and milk. By 
such variations in the recipe we found that the lowest price per pound, 
with the use of water and of lard for shortening, was about $0,035, 
minus fuel, and the highest price per pound was about $0,075. 

On the basis of the following recipe, which we consider typical, the 
cost of a pound of bread, not including fuel, is $0,059, which is, we believe, 
about the best figure per pound for a loaf of bread made in the home, 
which \w\\\ compare favorably with good baker's bread: 

^ cup milk \ teaspoon salt 

5 cup water J tablespoon butter 

\ yeast cake i tablespoon lard 

1 tablespoon sugar 3j cups flour (maximum) 



382 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (July 

All of these calculations are made on the basis of a four loaf batch 
to which one whole yeast cake was used. It may be argued by some 
that bread made in such small quantities will be high in price, and so in 
order to check up these results we utilized one barrel of flour for the 
purpose of bread making, keeping account of all ingredients added, 
using proportions stated in the recipe above. On the basis of one barrel 
of flour the cost of the bread per pound, without fuel, was $0,054, which 
compares favorably with that of the four loaf batch cited above. 

Averaging the price obtained from the small quantity method, and 
that from the large quantity method, we have an average price per 
pound for a loaf of homemade bread, without fuel, of $0,056. 

All of our fuel calculations are based upon starting with a cold stove, 
whether coal, gas, electricity, alcohol, or kerosene, heating the oven 
to the desired temperature for bread, and baking for about fifty minutes. 
This method is obviously a bit unfair to the coal stove which in many 
kitchens would remain hot during the entire day, and could be utilized 
for bread baking at any time. 

On the above basis our quantitative measures for fuel added to the 
above cost per pound the following cost for the various fuels: 

Coal $0.0048 

Gas 004-.006 

Kerosene .0048 

or an average of about ^ cent per loaf for the common fuels. 

This makes the cost of homemade bread, including fuel, about $0.06 
per pound, almost exactly the cost of a baker's loaf per pound. 



STUDENTS' CONTRIBUTIONS 

COST OF BREAD 

E. S. BURNHAM 
Univenity of Chicago, 1913 

This work was done in 1913 at tlie University of Chicago under the 
direction of Elizabeth C. Sprague, now head of the Department of 
Home Economics at the University of Kansas. 

Recipe for small loaf and for 1 lb. loaf of bread 



INGREDIENTS 


FOR SHALL LOAF (264 CMS. AV.) 


FOR 1 POUND LOAF 




Measure 


Weight 


Measure calculated 


Weight 


Liauid 


icup(118icc.) 

1 tbsp. 

i tbsp. 

ftsp. 
1\ cups 


ims. 

7.03 
2.187 
1.687 
178.0 


203.8 cc. 
about I cup 
0.86 tbsp. 
0.43 tbsp. 
0.64 tsp. 


gms. 
209.84 


Fat 


12.09 


Sugar 


3.76 


Salt 


2.90 


Flour 


2.7 cups 306.16 









Weight of flour to weight of loaf 178: 264 or 0.6742: 1. 

For a 1 pound loaf 0.674 pounds of flour. 

Weight of small loaf to weight of pound loaf 264: 454 or 1 : 1.72. 

Amount of various ingredients which may be used in a pound loaf, the amount of protein in 
grains, fuel value and cost of each 



INGREDIENTS 



Whole milk 

i Whole milk . . . . 

Skim milk 

Evaporated milk 
Condensed milk. 

Sugar 

Salt 

Lard 

Butter 







AMOUNTS 






Measure 


Weight 


Protein 


Calories 


Cost 


Market value 




gms. 


gms. 








203 cc. 


209.84 


6.93 


152.2 


$0.0172 


$0.08 (qt.) 




104.92 


3.46 


75.1 


.0086 


.08 (qt.) 


203 cc. 


210.94 


7.17 


79. 


.0107 


.05 (qt.) 


3J tbsp. 


54.52 


5.23 


93.67 


.0120 


.10(16oz.) 


U tbsp. 


26.7 


2.35 


89.3 


.0067 


.10(14oz.) 




3.76 




15. 


.00045 


.05J (lb.) 




2.90 












12.09 


0.24 


106.8 


.00399 


.15 (lb.) 




12.09 


0.12 


96. 


.00957 


.36 (lb.) 



383 



384 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[July 



Antount of various ingrfdients which may be used in a pound loaf, the atnounl of protein in 
grams, fuel value and cost of each — Continued 



INGR£Dn:NTS 



Flours 

Ceresota 

Lily White 

Soft Sp. Wheat 

Baker's $4 

Baker's $3 

High Grade Patent 

Baker's Grade 

Low Grade 

Yeast 



2.7 
2.7 
2.7 
2.7 

2.7 



cups 
cups 
cups 
cups 
cups 



Weight 


Protein 


Calories 


tms. 


gmi. 




306.16 






306.16 






306.16 






306.16 






306.16 








35.82 


1112.7 




40.719 


1122.8 




42.86 


1122.8 



.01806 
.01548 
.01376 
.01376 
.01032 



.0025 



5.25 bbl. 
4.50 bbl. 
4.00 bbl. 
4.00 bbl. 
3.00 bbl. 



Food value and cost of a pound loaf of bread hosed upon the various ingredients used 



DIFFERENT KINDS OF BREAD 



1 . Whole milk, butter and Ceresota flour 

2. Whole milk, lard and Ceresota flour 

3 . Skim milk, lard and Ceresota flour 

4. i Whole milk, lard and Ceresota flour 

5 . Evaporated milk, ,lard and Ceresota flour 

(Milk and water 1 : 3) 

6. Condensed milk, lard and Ceresota flour. . 

(Milk and water 1:9) 

7. Skim milk, lard. Baker's grade 

8. Skim milk, lard. Baker's grade $4 

9. Skim milk, lard. Baker's grade $3 

Skim milk, lard. Baker's low grade 

10. Water, lard and Ceresota 

Water, lard and high grade patent 

1 1 . Water, lard and Lily White 

Water, lard and Baker's grade 

12. Water, lard and Baker's grade f4 

13 . Water, lard and Baker's grade $3 

Water, lard and low grade flour 



PROTEIN 



gms. 

42.87 
42.99 
43.23 
39.52 
41.30 

38.41 

48.13 



50.27 
36.06 
40.96 

43.10 



1373.9 
1384.7 
1313.5 
1309.6 
1328.2 

1323.8 

1323.6 



1326.62 
1234 5 
1244.6 

1244.6 



$0.04778 
.0422 
.0357 
.0336 
.037 

.0317 

.03312 

.0314 

.02796 

.025 

.02242 

.02070 
.01726 



Note. — In making general estimates of cost and food value Ceresota was considered at a 
high grade patent, Lily White as a Baker's grade, and Baker's $.? as a low grade flour. The 
amount of protein and fuel value was olimatcd from the tibie in Chemical Comp.isilion of 
.\mcrican I'ihk! Materials, Bulletin No. 28. 



1916] 



STUDENTS CONTRIBUTIONS 



385 



general conclusions regarding nutritive value and cost of 

"standard loaf" 

The best loaf for home use seemed to be one made with skim milk, 
lard, and high grade patent flour. This had an excellent flavor, was fine 
grained, light and well raised, tender, of good color, and of moderate 
cost. For this reason this loaf was used as a standard of comparison. 



Comparison of several kinds of white bread. Each comparison is with the "standard loaf" 


VAKIATION IM INGKEDIENTS 


VARIATION IN QOAUTY OF BREAD 


VARIATION IN 
PROTEIN CONTENT 


VARIATION IN 
COST 


Whole milk for skim 


Slight improvement in flavor 
and texture 


Little change 


Raises, 18% 


Butter for lard 


Slight improvement in flavor 
and te.xture 


Little change 


Raises, 16% 


With both whole milk and 


Slight improvement in flavor 


Little change 


Raises, 34% 


lard 


and texture 






Water for milk 


Slightly darker, grain httle 
coarser 


Lowers, 16% 


Lowers, 30% 


Potato water for milk and 


SUghtly darker, grain Uttle 


Lowers, 16% 


Lowers, 30% 


water 


coarser; rises more quickly 






Evaporated milk (1 : 3) 


Darker, little flavor of milk 


Lowers, 4^% 


Raises, 5^% 


Condensed milk (1:9) 


Good bread, not quite so good 
flavor 


Lowers, 11% 


Lowers, 11% 


Lily White for Ceresota 


Shghtly drier, flavor not so 
good 


Raises, 11% 


Lowers, 7% 


Lily White and water 


Flavor not so good, more like 
Baker's bread 


Lowers, 5% 


Lowers, 37% 


Water and low grade flour 


Darker, flavor not so good. 


Same 


Lowers, 40% 




Fair bread. 




to 50% 


Low grade for Ceresota 


Darker, flavor not so good. 


Raises, 16% 


Lowers 12 to 




Moist good bread 




21% 


With no fat 


Fairly good bread, not so ten- 
der, shghtly drier 


Lowers, i% 


Lowers 11%, 


With no sugar 


Slower in becoming hght, as 
well raised, flavor not quite 
so good. 


Same 


Lowers, li% 



EDITORIAL 

The Journal as a Medium of Exchange. The following suggestions 
have been received from one of our correspondents. 

I believe that it would help in our immense problem of knowing what each 
one is doing along lines of work which should be more nearly standardized 
than they are, if examination questions for courses were pubHshed. Perhaps 
if this were done, people would no longer ask in a course in clothing as one- 
tenth of the final examination, "In whose reign did people button the toes 
of their shoes up to their knees?" There are certain courses sufficiently 
well established, such as textiles, an elementary college course in food study, 
and dietetics, with the same prerequisites of science, so that these questions 
ought at least to be suggestive. 

Can't you do something in regard to the questionnaire problem? I 
believe most thoroughly in this means of getting information, but a question- 
naire often asks for only part of the information really desired, or else is a 
duplication to some extent of similar work. Would it be possible for a ques- 
tionnaire to be pubUshed in the Journal before it is sent out, so that if prac- 
tically the same questionnaire has previously been sent out, or is soon to be 
sent, the prospective sender may be apprised of the fact, and, on the other hand, 
people may send in suggestions regarding the questionnaire that would make 
it of more general value? 

The Journal would gladly publish such questionnaires and examina- 
tion questions, so far as space allows, if this would be of any real help. 
Another plan would be for each one sending out a questionnaire to 
deposit one copy in the Journal office and to report the information 
(obtained. A letter to this office from one intending to formula t»" a 
new list of questions would secure information in regard to work already 
done and might prevent rej)etition of much work. Often it might be 
possible to obtain the use of material already collected. 

We have noted in another column two such questionnaires alread>' 
receivcfi that would be available in this way. 

We .should like, further, to begin the collection of papers on various 
subjects, that might be loaned for a small sum, enough to cover postage 
and other expenses of handling, such as nccessan*' rccopying, ami that 
Mb 



1916] KDITORIAL 387 

would be useful as a source of material for talks to be prepared for clubs 
or conferences, for those who have not ready access to libraries; and tliat 
would also ser\'e as a means of information in regard to various t\pes 
of work. For instance, a short time ago a request came from a teacher 
for information in regard to cooking in the country' schools. If we could 
have supplemented the references we were able to give her by pai)ers 
showing work that is being accomplished but that will probably not 
be published we could have given her more substantial help. 

There frequently comes into this ofhce material that is excellent 
and helpful, but that is either similar to work that wc have published 
or that for some reason does not fit our especial or immediate needs. 
Often the writers would be willing to have these papers used in the 
way that has been suggested. With a little cooperation we could have 
a selection of papers on a number of topics. In a similar way we should 
be glad to receive copies of examination questions if this is desired. 

Comparative Costs. The various results of experiments on the 
comparative cost of homemade and baker's bread, illustrate the compli- 
cations involved in what would have seemed to be a comparatively 
simple problem. 

The experiments of Miss Burnham show a variation in cost of 84 
per cent with different materials used. That is, taking a so-called 
''standard loaf" for comparison, and varying the kind of fat, the quality 
of the liquid, and the grade of flour, she finds that the cost is lowered 
from 1§ to 50 per cent, or raised from 5^ to 34 per cent. At the greatest 
extremes of cost, there is Httle change in the protein content, although 
in other combinations this is raised or lowered. Though further experi- 
ments are undoubtedly needed to verify their accuracy, these results 
explain easily some of the different conclusions reached. 

Another difl5culty arises in the cost of fuel, since gas may \ary from 
25 cents a thousand feet to $1 .50 or more, while coal and electricity have 
almost as great a variation. 

The value of the labor involved is still more difficult to determine. 
A statement was made in one student article published that "the time 
was not considered at all, for two reasons; first, in doing this work we 
had in mind the housekeeper; preparation of foods is a part of her pro- 
fession and therefore her time is already paid for. The same thing is 
true in regard to cooks and maids who are now almost entirely paid by 
the week and not by the amount of work accomplished." From one 



388 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

standpoint this would seem perfectly true, but it involves a false economic 
])rinciplc. To realize its absurdity, apply the same statement to each 
kind of work done. Not only must each task performed bear its share 
of the total amount expended for labor, but also its share of overhead 
expenses, including rent and depreciation. 

We seem not to have made substantial progress in the fifteen years 
since the A. C. A. in their report on homemade and prepared food stated: 

Just what the price of a homemade loaf is, and, provided fuel and labor 
are included in the cost, how nearly this price approximates the price of the 
article purchased outside of the house, few of even the most practical house- 
keepers would be prepared to say. 

Yet it is as true now as then that 

before practical constructive measures can be taken to simplify and perfect 
household machinery, there must be an accurate knowledge of the present 
facts of daily living and of their relation to other phases of the world's 
activity; for any evolution of housekeeping must be conditioned by the laws 
that govern the industrial and social world at large. 

COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 

To* the Editor of the Journal: 

In the January number of the Journal were published some figures on 
tlie cost of homemade and baker's bread which were so different from 
the results I had obtained that I questioned them. Since then I have 
kept some data that I am sending. 

As will be seen I have two different calculations, one for bread made 
exactly as Mrs. Marsh made it, the other for compressed yeast bread. 
I cannot sec how she gets 108 ounces of bread from 13 cups of flour. At 
first I thought probably she used a heaping coffee cup, i)ut, figuring from 
her cost, she uses 3.3 pounds of flour, and gets 6| pounds of bread. I 
wish I could. 

Data on ftome made bread. Quantities aiul costs, by methods given in the January Journal 

Weight of 1.^ cups flour 52 oz. 

Weight of dough when put in pans 80 oz. 

Weight of 3 loaves of bread 72 oz. 

Cost of bread from 13 cups as given in Journal $0 1973 

Cost of 24 ounces as given in Journal 0438 

Cost of 1 lb 02<)2 

Cost of 24 ounces (my data) 0657 

Cost of 1 lb 043R 



1916J COMMENT AXD DISCUSSION 389 

Compressed yeast bread. {My data Ifiroughout) 

3 teaspoons sugar at 7i cents per pound $0.0025 

3 tablespoons lard at 15 cents per pound 0.014 

48 ounces flour at 3§ cents per pound 0. 105 

1 cake compressed yeast . 02 

3 cups liquid. 1 J of milk at 9 cents 0.0375 

28 cubic feet gas at 80 cents per 1000 0.0224 

$0.2014 

Weight of bread 66 ounces cost $0. 2014 

Cost of 24 ounces 0.0732 

Cost of 1 lb. (mcluding cost of fuel, not labor) 0.0488 

Labor, J hour. 

Charlotte G. Baker. 

By consultation with the May Journal it will be seen that Mrs. Marsh's weights were 
66 ounces instead of 52. Her weight per cup was therefore above the standard; her price 
per pound of flour less than that gi\ en by Mrs. Baker. This adds emphasis to the difficulty 
of obtaining satisfactorj' data on what would seem to be a simple experiment, — The Editor. 

Miss Bevier adds these figures that illustrate also the increased cost 
in a few years. 

/. Bread data (for 4 loaves) 

Flour, 62 ounces or 3.9 f)ounds at 3.4 cents per pound $0. 133 

Sugar, 8 teaspoons or 1.4 ounces at 5.6 cents per pound 0.005 

Crisco, 4 teaspoons or 0.6 ounces at 16.3 cents per pound 0.006 

Yeast (compressed), I cake at 2 cents 0.020 

Total cost of ingredients 0. 164 

Gas, 28i cubic feet at $1.00 per thousand 0.029 

Total cost of bread 0. 193 

Weight of bread 85 07. or 5.3 lbs. 

Cost of 24 ounces . 054 

Cost of bread per pound (exclusive of labor) $0 036 

The cost of labor has not been included because of its variability, due 
to time used and value of workers' time. 



390 



rilE J(JURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



(July 



//. Bread data from U. S. Dcpt. Agr.. O. E. S. Bid. No. 52. Isabel Bevier 1894-1896 

Flour, 47.75 pounds at 2.25 cents i>cr ix)und $1 .08 

Potatoes, 2.32 pounds at 2 cents per pound 0.05 

Sugar, 0.28 pounds at 5 cents per pound 0.01 

Yeast, 5.19 pounds 0.09 

Salt, 0.66 pounds 0.01 



Total cost of ingredients 1 .24 

Weight of bread 65.75 lbs. 

Cost of bread per pound (exclusive of fuel or labor) .019 

The Journal of Home Economics: 

In reply to your request, I am forwarding some new material on the 

cost of bread which merely confirms previous work, with later cost 

prices. This is the work of the classes in Economic Uses of Foods. 

These results have been checked and re-checked in class work and so 

we feel sure of them. 

Elizabeth C. Sprague, 
University of Kansas. 

Cost and fuel value of one poutid loaves of bread (tnalc<ials without cost of fuel or labor) 



White Bread 

White Bread 

White Bread 

White Bread 

White Bread 

White Bread 

White Bread 

Whole Wheat 
Raisin Bread 
Cinnamon Bread 

Cocoa Bread 

Nut Bread 



INGREDIENTS USED 



Water, Zephyr Bread Flour, lard, 
compressed yeast 

Water, White Loaf Bread Flour, lard, 
compressed yeast 

Water, Gold Medal Bread Flour, lar(}, 
compressed yeast 

Water, Queen of Pantry Pastry Flour, 
lard, compressed yeast 

Skira milk. Zephyr Bread Flour, lard, 
compressed yeast 

Whole milk, Zephyr Bread Flour, 
lard, compressed yeast 

Skim milk, Zephyr Bread Flour, but- 
ter, comprcs-scd yeast 

Skim milk. Whole Wheat Flour, butter 

Skim milk, Zephyr Bread Flour, butter 

Skim milk, Zx-phyr Bread Flour, but- 
ter and eggs 

Skim milk. Zephyr Bread Flour, but- 
ler and eggs 

Skim milk. Zephyr Bread Flour, but- 
ter and eggs 



CMS. 
PROTEIN 


FUEL 
VALUE 


31.0 


1203 


32.0 


1213 


32.0 


1213 


30 


1203 


39.1 


1281 


39.1 


1348 


39 1 
35 
42.0 


1281 
944 
1755 


52.0 


2027 


60.0 


2227 


57 


2159 



COST 



0.03218 

0.03218 

0.03955 

0.03955 

0.03773 

04788 

046S8 
03456 
0.07163 

0.1455 

0.1629 

1607 



•The fancy breads made from same proportions of liquid average IJ-IJ pound loavet 
when baked. 



1916] 



COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 
Prices of Flour, 1916 



391 



Gold medal 

Queen of the Pantry (Pastry Flour) 

White Loaf (Local Kansas Wheat Flour) 
Zephyr (Local Kansas Wheat Flour). . . . 
Whole Wheat Flour 



AMOUNT 


raice 


lbs. 




48 


$2.25 


48 


2.25 


48 


1.70 


48 


1.70 


48 


1.44* 



* Usually priced by the pound, in this case 3 cents. 

Prices oj olher ingredients 



Whole milk 

Skim milk 

Butter 

Oleomargarine 

Lard 

Eggs 

Walnuts 

Raisins 

Cocoa 

Sugar 

Cinnamon 

Yeast, Fleischmann's Compressed. 



' Prices for 1914-15. No changes for 1916 except in sugar. 



PRICE* 




We have some further experiments on a local Kansas flour, using dry 
yeast and the long process, showing that a 22 oz. loaf of bread made 
with milk and potato cost $0,044 (24 oz., $0,048), with potato and water 
$0,038 (24 oz., $0.0425) and with water alone $0,037 (24 oz., $0.0403), 
We were comparing this with the 22 ounce 10 cent baker's loaf. We 
are also comparing the relative volume of the two t^pcs of bread but 
this work is not finished. 



392 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

THE QUESTION BOX 

Conducted by a committee of the Science Section of the American Home Economics 
Association. Chairman, Prof. Amy Louise Daniels, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis. 
Questions may be sent directly to Miss Daniels. 

Question: Will you please tell me about the relative keeping capacity 
of baking powders: 1. alum, 2. phosphate, 3. tartrate? It seems to me 
that baking powder should be judged not only on its original price, 
purity, carbon dioxide capacity when fresh, and physiological effect, 
but also by its capacity to be stored well covered in a dry place. 

Ajiswer: "The keeping qualities of a baking powder must certainly 
be considered in determining its total value. The bi-carbonate of soda 
as component of a baking powder is easily obtained in a dry condition. 
This is true also of the starch used as a filler; and, of course, particular 
care should be used by the manufacturer to have these constituents as 
dry as possible. The difficulty of obtaining the add component in a 
dry condition varies with the acid component selected, and, when this 
is cream of tartar, there is no difficulty whatev^er; and a well made cream 
of tartar powder has excellent keeping qualities, if properly packaged. 

"Dried or burnt alum is not particularly hydroscopic, although the 
different alums vary in this regard; soda alum is the most hydroscopic. 

"Acid phosphates are very liable to absorb moisture; and it is some- 
times difficult to dry them thoroughly without, to some extent, reducing 
their values. This is particularly the case where phosphates and alum 
are mixed. 

"Tartaric acid in the free state keeps very well, if properly protected. 
It must be recognized that there is no mixture of ingredients in a baking 
powder which will keep indefinitely without deterioration, under com- 
mercial conditions." — A. McGiLL, Chief Analyst of the Inland Rrcenue 
Dept., Ottawa. 

Question: "Have you a rcci{)c for making jVlIy from cactus fruit?" 
Answer: P2xhaustivc studies of the uses of the j)rickly pear and other 
cacti for food purjjoses as well as for feed for live stock have been made by 
the New Mexico Agricultural Experiment Station and the United States 
Department of Agriculture, the results being reported in New Mexico 
Station Bulletin 64, and Ujiilcd States Dejjartment of Agriculture, 
Bureau of Plant Industry Bulletin 74 and 116. These publications can 
be consulted in most large libraries. 



1916J THE QUESTION BOX 393 

Generally speaking, the cactus fruits, which have many food uses, 
^-ield thick sirups or pastes rather than jellies. Whether this is due to 
a lack of pectin or of acid, or of both, seems not to have been de- 
termined. A lack of acid would naturally suggest the use of lemon 
juice and a lack of pectin the use of an extract of the white portion of 
the orange peel with the cactus-fruit juice. Red cactus-fruit juice, 
evaporated to a thin paste, has been used, at least experimentally, to 
color apple jelly. If one wishes recipes for drying cactus fruits and 
for making various i)astes and sweets from these fruits, they can be 
found in Bureau of Plant Industry Bulletin 116, mentioned above. 

It is possible that further Information may be secured from the director 
of the New Mexico Agricultural Experiment Station, Mr. Fabian Garcia, 
at State College, New Mexico. 

Question: Does the water in which cabbage is cooked, if consumed 
by some people, act as a poison in the system. If so,_why?_ 

Answer: We know of no reason why the water in which cabbage is 
cooked should produce any ill effects. On the contrary it has been found 
by McCollum and Kennedy {Journal of Biological Chemistry, 24, (1916) 
p. 499) to contain a substance which, when fed to pigeons suffering 
from polyneuritis, caused by an exclusive diet of polished rice, effects 
a cure. 

Qucsiiou: What determines the age at which the average baby can 
digest hydrated starch, such as is found in barley gruel (Robinson's 
patent barley flour) which has been boiled in water for twenty minutes? 

Answer: The follo\\'ing is taken from Diseases of Nutrition and 
Infant Feeding, by Morse and Talbot, 1915. 

"It has been proved beyond question that amylolytic ferments are 
l>resent in the saliva and pancreatic secretions of the new-born infant, 
even if it is born prematurely. The amylase of the pancreatic secretion 
is more abundant after the first month than earlier. These ferments 
are present and active in the breast-fed as well as in the artificially fed 
infant. . . . There are, therefore, no physiological contra-indi- 
cations to the use of starch in the feeding of infants, even in the new 
born. This fact does not prove, however, that infants ought always 
to be given starch or that they should be fed on foods composed largely, 
or almost exclusively, of starch. It merely shows that there is no 
reason why starch should not be given to babies if there is any good 



394 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS |July 

reason for doing so. Clinical experience shows that in general it is 
not advisable to give starch under two months old, although there arc 
many exceptions to this general rule. Clinical experience also shows 
that it is inadvisable to give large amounts of starch to babies before 
they are ten months old. 

In this connection it is interesting to consider the variations in the 
amylolytic power of saliva with reference to the age of the infant. 
According to experiments reported by G. Finizio {Rev. Hyg. et Med. 
Infant., 8 (1909), No. 3, pp. 224-249), the amylolytic power on an 
average increases progressively from birth to twelve months, the rate 
of increase being slower at first than later. Towards the eighth or 
tenth month the amylolytic power is double that observed during the 
first eight or fifteen days of Hfe. At the age of one year the amylo- 
lytic power is little inferior to that of a child two or three years old 
and perhaps even to that of an adult. In infants of the same age the 
amylolytic power of the saliva is not always identical. 

Question: If the barley gruel were cooked long enough to change 
part of the starch to dextrin would it be more easily digested? 

Answer: The amount of starch, if any, changed to dextrin even after 
many hours of boiling fat temperatures above 100°C.) would be too 
small to have any appreciable effect on the digestibility of the substance 
in question; furthermore to change the starch to dextrin would defeat 
the purpose of the starch gruel, namely, to form a colloidal solution which 
will make the clot formed by the casein more friable. (Southworth: 
The Influence of Starch on Infant Digestion, Journal of the American 
Medical Association, 63 (1914), p. 1375. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
JotTRNAL OF HoME ECONOMICS if the Journal price is listed. 



The Baby's First Two Years. By Richard 
M. Smith. Boston: Houghton, Mifflin 
Company, 1915, pp. 156. $0.75. By mail 
of the Journal, $0.80. 

The Baby's First Two Years is a sane, 
well written and easily understood book, 
giving information concerning the care and 
feeding of very young children. The au- 
thor evidently has had much experience 
with young mothers, for he answers the 
many questions which naturally come to 
the inexperienced. These are presented 
clearly, concisely, and in such form that 
they are easily understood by those having 
no technical knowledge. The book is di- 
vided into three parts. Part one is made 
up of definite rules for the care and feeding 
of infants up to two years. Part two treats 
of the care of the mother, the general be- 
havior of the very young childj and the best 
methods of traveling with infants. Part 
three gives, besides tables and charts per- 
taining to the normal development of in- 
fants, a full and ver>' definite outline of a 
typical day in a baby's life. Here, not only 
the time, but very definite directions for the 
various processes that have to do with the 
care of the baby are given. 

The description of the nursery, directions 
regarding the preparations for the new baby 
and the emphasis placed upon the use of 
certified milk for the bottle baby, mark the 
author as one who is not conversant with 
country conditions, nor with a knowledge of 
the home conditions of the larger portion of 
the American homes. The book, obviously, 
is written for the city mother of considerable 
means. 

In the chapter dealing with infant feeding 
emphasis is placed upon the value of mother's 



milk, and suggestions are given for the care 
of the mother at this time. But the author 
fails to appreciate that the general compo- 
sition of mother's milk cannot be influenced 
by either food or e.xcrcise. The statement is 
made that "the percentage of fat, if low, 
may be increased sometimes by adding fat 
to the mother's diet, and by decreasing her 
exercise. These means are not efficacious 
unless the mother is underfed and tired. 
The fat, if excessive, may be reduced by 
cutting down the amount of meat in the 
diet and by increasing the exercise to the 

point of fatigue The protein, 

if high, may be lowered by increasing the 
exercise, not to fatigue, and by quieting the 
mind." 

The formulas given for artificial feeding 
contain much fat, more than is advocated 
by many pediatrists; lime-water is also ad- 
vised in certain cases of digestive disturb- 
ances. These formulas are the least valu- 
able part of the book. However, only very 
few of these are given, because the author 
believes that the choice of a formula should 
be made by a physician. "Each child must 
have his food adapted to his individual 
digestive ability." 

Students' Manual in Household Arts: Pood 
and Cookery. By Martha L. Metcalf. 
Indianapolis Industrial Educational Com- 
pany, 1915, pp. 229. $1.10. By mail of 
the Journal, $1.24. 

Miss Metcalf's book is not of a new type, 
but is a good example of the textbook for 
use in Home Economics classes. The usual 
ground is covered — the preparing and serv- 
ing of the various types of food, and direc- 
tions for the necessary household cleaning 



395 



396 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



IJuly 



and sanitation. The special value of Food 
and Cookery is the clear, direct presentation 
of the subject so that it can be made of ina- 
mediate practical use. For instance, in the 
chapter on the serving of meals, the funda- 
mental rules which make for an orderly, 
comfortable meal are given, and the family 
meal witliout a waitress considered. More 
formal service is given brief notice. This 
is as it should be if the work is to help the 
average family. 

Under vegetables, one finds two classifica- 
tions — one from the standpoint of nutri- 
tion — the other from the standpoint of 
cookery. These are followed by clear, defi- 
nite rules for cooking, buying, and storing 
vegetables. Under milk, the difference be- 
tween clean and dirty milk might well have 
received more emphasis, but blank pages 
bound into the text make convenient the 
addition of material by the indi\'idual using 
the book. 

There are many recipes in good form, with 
brief and clear directions. Is it worth while 
to use the abbreviations C for cup, t for 
teaspoon, T for tablespoon, in printing? 
Money is not saved by this in printing, as 
it is in t>'pewriting, and there is a loss in 
ease of reading except for the person con- 
stantly using such abbreviations. 

The illustrations are helpful additions to 
the teaching of the text. Such pictures as 
that of a manufactured and home made 
double boiler on page 71; of the refrigerator 
on page 21; of a coal range on page 31, are 
very illuminating. 

Industrial attd Commercial Schools of the 
United States and Germany. A compara- 
tive Study. By Krederick William 
Roman. New York: G. P. I'utnam's 
Sons, 1915, pp. 382. $1.50. 

This book has a value over most other 
histories and descriptions of the Industrial 
and Commercial schools in that it considers 
the ixrrsonnel of the students and teachers. 
The material on the Industrial Schools in 



.\mcrica is unfortunately noiof a sufficiently 
recent date to make it worth while for any 
small department of Home Economics to 
purchase the book, although valuable to use 
if available in other departments. 

Saving Fuel in Healing a House. By L. P. 
Breckenridge and S. B. Flag. Wash- 
ington, D. C: Government Printing 
Office, 1915, pp. 35. $0.05. Supt. of 
Documents. (Dept. of the Interior, 
Bureau of Mines, Tech. paper 97.) 

This bulletin discusses the advantages and 
disadvantages of various fuek and of elec- 
tricity; different methods of heating resi- 
dences; and the best methods of firing dif- 
ferent fuels. To the householder it gives 
valuable suggestions for selecting a heating 
system, for choosing the proper fuel, and for 
operating the chosen heater. The informa- 
tion about the handling of different fuels, 
control of drafts, etc., is specially useful. 
It poirts out general principles regarding 
operating conditions, "but it is impossible 
to give exact and detailed instructions for 
firing all heaters. The best method of ap- 
plying these principles in a particular case 
can be determined only by experiment." 

An interesting and very complete record 
of the fuel consumption in heating a small 
residence, is given toward the close of the 
paper. 

Spices. ByJ. K.Jank. St. Louis: Author, 
1915, pp. 121. $1.50. By mail of the 
Journal, $1.55. 

This book, intended for manufacturers, 
grocers, etc., contains information regarding 
the botanical origin, geographical source, 
commercial use, and chemical comiiuaiLion 
of the principal spices. The federal stand- 
ards for each si)icc are given. The common 
commercial grades and the more common 
seeds, herbs, and leaves, arc described. .\ 
large amount of miscellaneous information, 
including federal and state laws on labeling; 
and net wt-ij^hts, is also included. 



1916] EXCHANGES 397 

PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

Opportunities in Occupations Other Than Teaching. By Intercollegiate Bureau of Occupa- 
tions, 130 E. 22 Street, New York, N. Y., July, 1915, pp. 16. $.05. 

Our Daily Food. By Laura Comstock, Amherst, Mass., 1916, pp. 8. (Mass. Bulletin for 
Farm Women No. 4, Feb. 1916.) 

Positions in Social Work. By Edward T. Devine and Mary Van Kleek. New York: School 
of Philanthropy, 1916, pp. 55. 

The Story of Textiles. By the Newark Museum .Association, Newark, N. J., 1916, pp. 32. 
Published in connection with the exhibit held in the Newark Public Library Feb. 1- 
March 18, 1916. 

A Survey of Tuenty-three Rural Districts of Desoto Parish, La. By Louisiana State Normal 
School. Natchitoches, La., 1915, pp. 31. (Normal Quarterly vol. 4, No. 4.) 

U. S. Public Health Service Exhibit al the Panama- Pacific International Exposition, San 
Francisco, 1915. By \V. C. Rucker and C. C. Pierce. Washington: Gov. Printing 
Office, 1916, pp. 29, $.10. Supt. of Documents. (U. S. Public Health Service Sup. 
No. 27 to Public Health Reports.) 

Utilization of Cherry By-Products. By Frank Rabak. Washington, D. C: Gov. Printing 
Office, 1916, pp. 24, Supt. of Documents. (U. S. Dept. of Agriculture Bulletin No. 350.) 

Vilamines and Nutritional Diseases. By Atherton Seidell. Washington, D. C: Gov. Print- 
ing Office, 1916, pp. 8. (U. S. Public Health Service Reprint No. 325.) 

The Woman's Municipal League of Boston Bulletin, Feb. 1916: Dept. of Housing. By W. M. 
L. of Boston. 109 Hudson Ave., Albany, N. Y. and 6 Marlborough St., Boston, Mass., 
pp. 79. (Vcl. 7, No. 3.) 

EXCHANGES 

Many of us have read the story of two families, one living in one suburb, and one in 
another, both equally distant from the same city, who exchanged houses one summer in 
order to effect a change of scene without expense. The experiment worked very well, in the 
story; and readers of the story who have been inspired to imitate the plan in real life have 
found it most satisfactory. Change of air, we are accustomed to think, is an important 
part of a vacation; but perhaps change of scene is even more important, — the whole value 
of a vacation depending upon getting out of a rut, even a good rut. 

This being so, vacations are more easily to be obtained than many other good things. Of 
course, it is seldom possible to exchange houses with one's neighbor; but it is almost always 
easily possible to exchange rooms with a member of one's family. It is amazing, the sense 
of change, and consequently of refreshment, obtainable by so simple a thing as this, k 
different bed, different windows, different walls — those make sleep more restful, and waking 
more cheerful, if one happens to be tired and in need of change — as a person usually is when 
tired. In families this plan of taking a vacation by exchanging rooms is excellent indeed. 

A complete change of scene is, naturally, better than an incomplete one; but an incom- 
plete one is immeasurably better than none. Let all stay-at-homes try it this summer. — 
Homt Progress. 



398 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[July 



ARTICLES IN APRIL AND MAY EXCHANGES 



The Associalion Monthly for May con- 
tains articles on Women and Unemploy- 
ment, by ^Margaret A. Hobbs, p. 145, and 
The Federal Children's Bureau and its 
Chief, by Ethel M. Springer, p. 164. In 
the same magazine, Our Latest Experiment, 
by Mary E. Scott, p. 170, is an account of 
the Y. W. C. A. cafeteria in New York City. 

Manual Training and Vocational Educa- 
tion for April contains an account of the 
meeting of the Illinois Manual Arts Associa- 
tion at Joliet. The ^May number contains 
an article on The Kitchen Boiler, by J. H. 
Tipton, p. 680, that while chiefly intended 
as a problem for high school students, 
gi\es the arrangement of the boiler and the 
water-supply pipes in a clear and useful 
way. 

The Independent continues the articles 
by Martha Bensley Bruere, on The Habits 
of Women under Domestication including, 
April 3, Home vs. Family, p. 15; and April 
10, The Waste of Saving, p. 61. The 
Saving of Waste, April 10, by Flora Thomp- 
son, p. 62, states the other side of household 
waste. The number for May 15 contains 
The Efl'icient Home, by Edward Earle 
Purinton, p. 246, and for May 22, Woman 
in the Market Place, by Margaret Deland, 
p. 286. 

The Modern Hospital for May contains 
an article by the supervisor of the New 
York School Lunch Committee, Elizabeth 
M. Fee, on Feeding New York's School 
Children, p. 365. In the Department of 
Dietetics, p. 370, The Egg Problem, and 
The Control of Some Sources of Food 
Supply are worth notice. 



Education for April amtains a summary of 
fne lectures on the child caUed Psychology 
and Youth, p. 170. 

The Hotel Monthly for April gives an 
interesting account of The Ramifications 
of a Great Dining-Car System, and for 
May publishes a "Boiled Down" Cook Book 
Idea, giving a basic dish as keynote for 
variations, p. 80. 

Housewives League Magazine for May has 
a comprehensive article. Your Part in Saving 
the Nation's Eyes, by Edward Van Cleve, 
p. 45, and Model Menus in Place of Medi- 
cine, by Helene M. Pope, p. 41. 

The Outlook for May 10 publishes an in- 
terview with Dr. Henry Moskowitz, presi- 
dent of the New York Municipal Civil 
Service Commission, on The Garment 
Trade and the Minimum Wage, p. 66, and 
also contains a picture of a Philippine Cook- 
ing Class. 

School and Society, .^pril 8, in The Cost 
of a College Girl's Education, by F. Stuart 
Chapin, p. 520, gives a summary of the 
Smith College girls' accounts kept for a 
year in response to the request of the Dean. 
The number for May 20 contains Home 
Economics, its Opportunities and Obliga- 
tions, by Isabel Bevier, p. 737, a paper given 
at the meeting of the .\merican Home Eco- 
nomics Association at Detroit. 

Tlie Survey, .\pn\ 1, contains an article 
describing the Department of .VgricuUure's 
Demonstration and E,xtension Work, p. 22. 

Harper's for May contains Who Feeds the 
Nation? by Elizal>eth Soars, p. 860. 



1916] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 399 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 
Contributions to the bibliography are welcomed. Please send material to the Jottrnai. 

Foods and Cookeky 

The Carbohydrates and the Enzymes of the Soy Bean. J. P. Street and E. M. Bailey, 
Jour. Indus, and Engin. Client., 7 (1915), no. 10, pp. 853-858. 

The Fireless Cooker and Its Uses. Helen Canon and Lucile Brewer, Cornell Reading 
Courses, Farm House Ser., 4 (1915), no. 95, pp. 273-298, figs. 8. 

A Bread Leavening Agent. C. J. Kulumoff, Cenlbl. Bakl. [etc.], II .\bt., 34 (1912), no. 
1-3, pp. 76, 77; abs. in Expl. Sta. Rec, 34 (1916), pp. 560, 561. The author describes a fer- 
mentation liquid obtained from the chick-pea {Cicer arietinum) and used in Bulgaria and 
Turkey. 

The Milling of Rice and Its Mechanical and Chemical Effect upon the Grain. F. B. Wise 
and A. \V. BroomeU, U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui. 330 (1916), pp. 31, figs. 11. 

The Banana and Its By-Products. E. Collin, Ann. Falsi/., 8 (1915), no. 83, 84, pp. 280- 
291, figs. 6; abs. in E.xpt. Sta. Rec, 34 (1916), p. 460. 

The Preparation of Porous Bread from Starch. W. Ostwald and \, Riedel, Kolloid 
Zlschr., 17 (1915), no. 1, pp. 12-14, figs. 5; abs. in Expl. Sla. Rec, 34 (1916), p. 460. 

The Food Value of Different Types of Bread. A. Pugliese, Rev. Gin. Sci., 26 (1915), 
no. 21, pp. 612-617, figs. 3; abs. in Expl. Sta. Rec, 34 (1916), pp. 459, 460. 

The Use of Blood of Slaughtered Animals as Human Food. F. Hofmeister, Munchen. 
Med. Wchnschr., 62 (1915), nos. ii, pp. 1105-1108; 34, pp. 1146-1150; abs. in Expl. Sla. 
Rec, 34 (1916), p. 459. 

The Use of Rice in Bread-making. N. Novelli, Giorn. Risicolt, 5 (1915), no. 5, pp. 68-72; 
abs. in Expl. Sta. Rec, 33 (1916), p. 260. 

A Standard Dietary for an Orphanage. Adele S. Jaffa, [Sacramento, Cal.]: State Printing 
Office, 1915, 2 ed., pp. 37. 

Beri-beri in the Amazon Basin. A. X. Walcott, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 65 (1915), 
no. 25, pp. 2145-2147. 

The Chemical Composition of Some Corn Meal Products and the Digestibility of Protein. 
Rammstedt, Arch. Ilyg., 81 (1913), no. 6, pp. 286-306; abs. Hyg. Rundschau, 25 (1915), no. 
3, p. 108; abs. Expt. Sta. Rec, 33 (1915), p. 564. .\nalyses are reported, comparing the 
chemical compositions of corn, wheat, and rye flours. Values are given for the digestibility 
of the protein content of flours prepared from peas, lentils, beans, corn, wheat, buckwheat, 
and rye, as determined by artificial digestion. 

The Use of Hardened Fats for Food Purposes. H. Thoms and F. MiJller, Arch. Hyg., 
84 (1915), no. 1, pp. 54-77; abs. Expt. Sla. Rec, 33 (1915), p. 362. Experiments are reported 
and discussed. It is recommended that a fat should not be hardened to give a melting point 
of over 37° C. (body temperature). It was found that in practically every case, if the digesti- 
bility of fats melting higher than this was not noticeably different from that of lower melt- 
ing fats, a tallowy taste and intestinal and other passing disturbances, such as are usually no- 
ticed with beef and mutton tallow, were e.xperienced. 

Are the Hardened Fats Suitable Food for Man? P. O. Siissmann, Arch. Hyg., 84 (1915), 
no. 2-3, pp. 121-145; abs. Expt. Sta. Rec, 33 (1915), p. 564. Samples of hardened sesame, 
peanut, and cotton-seed oils were found to contain 1.0 to 1.1 mg., 1.6 to 6.3 mg., and 0.07 to 
0.4 mg. of nickel per kilogram of fat, respectively. Larger amounts of iron were detected 
hut these were regarded as having no hygienic significance. 

The author concludes that the amount of nickel present in the hardened fat is too small 
to produce any ill effects. 



400 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (July 

Physiology and Nutrition 

Proteins in Growth. Ruth WTieeler, 5c/. ^fo., 2 (1916), no. 3, pp. 279-282. 
The Chemical Nature and Physiological Significance of So-called Vitamines. Carl Voegt- 
Un, Sci. Mo., 2 (1916), no. 3, pp. 289-293. 

The Mineral Nutrients in Practical Human Dietetics. E. B. Forbes, Set. Mo., 2 (1916), 
no. 3, pp. 282-289. 

Food Selection for Rational and Economical Living. C. F. Langworthy, .Sci. Mo., 2 
(1916), no. 3, pp. 294-306. 

Homogenized Olive Oil and Fat-free Milk Mixtures in Case of Difficult Feeding. M. 
Ladd, Arch. Fed., 32 (1915), no. 6, pp. 409-425. 

Some Studies on Sugar in Infant Feeding. L. Porter and C. H. Dunn, Amer. Jour. Dis- 
eases Children, 10 (1915), no. 2, pp. 77-86. 

The Calorimeter as the Interpreter of the Life Processes. G. Lusk, Science, 42 (1915), 
no. 1093, pp. 816-819. 

The R6le of the Digestive Glands in the Excretion of Endogenous Uric .\cid. L. B. 
Mendel and R. L. Stehle, Jour. Biol. Chem., 22 (1915), no. 1, pp. 215-230. 

Diet and Its Effect upon Blood Sugar. W. von Moraczewski, Biochem. Zlschr., 71 (1915), 
no. 4-5, pp. 268-288; abs. in Expt. Sla. Rec, 34 (1916), p. 562. 

The Nutritive Value of Wood. G. Haberlandt, Silz. K. Preuss. Akad. Wiss. (1915), 
pp. 243-257; abs. in Expt. Sta. Rec, 34 (1916), p. 561. 

The Preparation of Protein-free Milk. H. H. Mitchell and R. A. Nelson, Jour. Biol. 
Chem., 23 (1915), no. 2, pp. 459-467. A method is described for the preparation of proteb- 
free milk for experimental purposes. 

The Influence of Certain Vegetable Fats on Growth. \\. V. McCollum and Marguerite 
Davis, Jour. Biol. Chem., 21 (1915), no. 1, pp. 179-182. 

The Relation of the Quality of Proteins to Milk Production. E. B. Hart and G. C. 
Humphrey, Jour. Biol. Chem., 21 (1915), no. 2. pp. 239-254. 

Basal Metabolism and Body Surface. J. H. Means, Jour. Biol. Chem., 21 (1915), no. 2, 
pp. 263-268. 

On Starvation and Obesity, with Special Reference to .Acidosis. O. Folin and \V. Denis, 
Jour. Biol. Chem., 21 (1915), no. 1, pp. 183-194. 

[Progress in] Physiological Chemistry. F. C. Hopkins, .Ann. Rpis. Prog. Chem. (London), 
11 (1914), pp. 188-212. 

Dropsy and .Xnemia on Exclusive Potato Diet. O. Strauss, Med. Klinik., 11 (1915), no. 
31, pp. 854-856; abs. in Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 65 (1915), no. 12, p. 1063. 

Different Kinds of Sugar in the Diet of Children. A. Gismondi, Pediatria [Naples], 22 
(1914), no. 4, pp. 241-254; abs. in Expi. Sla. Record,. 34 (1916), no. 2, p. 164. 

Hygiene and Sanitation 

The \'iability of the Typhoid Bacillus in Sour Cream. C. Krumwiede and W. C. N<^e. 
Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 4 (1914), no. 11, pp. 1006-1008. 

A Study of Fruit Jar Caps. C. M. Stapp, Mo. Bui. hul. Bd. Health, 17 (1914), no. 9, 
pp. 100, 101. 

The Bacteriology of Paper Dishes. Mary Duddcridgc, Housrwives League Mag., 5 (1915), 
no. 1, pp. 12-15, figs. 3. A stuHy of wood, wood pulp, and water-proof pap.T food containen, 
with special attention to their bacterial and mold content. 

The Commerical Food Container. Mary Duddcridgc, Housewives league Mag., 4 (1914). 
no. 4, pp. 11-14, figs. 8. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The Home Economics Practice Cot- 
tage at the University of Washington. A 
small cottage which has been on the campus 
since the Exposition in 1909 has come into 
possession of the Home Economics Depart- 
ment. It became available October 15, when 
it was given over to the home decoration 
class under Miss Denny as a problem in 
house furnishing. 

The only resource in sight at that time 
was a fund of $50 from the treasury of the 
Home Economics Club of the University. 

The home decoration class worked out a 
color scheme. Te.xtile students dyed un- 
bleached muslin to screen the alcove. These 
hangings furnished the dominant note in the 
color scheme. The windows were curtained 
with ten cent cheese cloth with a bit of hair- 
pin lace set in at the hem. A rug was 
rescued on its way from the President's 
office to a lowUer position. Friends loaned 
unwanted chairs and beds. Students made 
braided rag rugs and dyed and wove others. 
They also wove some pillow covers. The 
most successful one, however, is a dyed 
sugar sack with a touch of coarse needle- 
work. SUp covers of cretonne were made for 
the over elaborate chair and tailored pillows 
for the uncomfortable chairs. 

The home decoration class has been re- 
markably successful in preserxang the color 
scheme and in keeping the result a simple, 
inviting interior. 

There has been a surprising response to 
the appeal made by this attempt to make 
"bricks without straw." 

The Pacific Conference of Home Eco- 
nomics concluded its year's work at a meet- 
ing held at the Gardena Agricultural High 
School, Los Angeles, May 18. 

At this meeting Mrs. Frank A. Gibson 
of the State Immigration Commission and 
Mrs. Amanda Matthews Chase, author and 



a home teacher, were guests and spoke on 
their respective lines of work. Mrs. Gibson 
is familiarly known as the Mother of the 
Home Teachers' Bill, since it was through 
her influence that the bill was passed at the 
last session of the legislature. 

The September meeting was the occasion 
of a tea in honor of our guests. Miss Martha 
Van Renssalaer and Miss Flora Rose of 
Cornell. 

The November meeting was held in con- 
nection with the Southern California Teach- 
ers' Association in San Diego. At this meet- 
ing. Dr. Jessica Pei.xotto, Associate Profes- 
sor of Social Science of the University of 
California ga\e an able address on The Needs 
of the Home Teacher, followed by a dis- 
cussion of the subject led by Miss Helen 
Stafford of Los Angeles. 

In February the conference arranged a 
series of lectures on Foods and Cookery 
given by Miss Anna Barrows. These were 
largely attended. 

In April Miss Estelle Lawton Lindsey, 
City Council woman of Los Angeles spoke 
on Woman's Work in City Government. 

Besides the regular meetings of the Con- 
ference, the Domestic Art and the Domestic 
Science Sections have held monthly meetings 
taking up topics of special interest to each. 

The Housekeepers' Alliance of Wash- 
ington, D. C. At the annual meeting held 
May 31 about $50 was distributed to the win- 
ners of prizes in the breadmaking contest, 
carried out under the supervision of the Direc- 
tor of Domestic Science in the public schools, 
who is a member of the Alliance. The con- 
test was open to all students of the grammar 
schools, and the prizes were five dollars sav- 
ings accounts in banks situated near the 
homes of the winners. The contest is said 
to have been carried on with extraordinary 
interest and most satisfactory results. 



401 



402 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[July 



An exhibit along the lines of household 
economy is planned for the next year. The 
following is the announcement on the card 
which is being distributed to housewives, in 
connection with the general education 
campaign toward economy and the right 
attitude concerning it. 

WAR ON WASTE 

The Housekeepers' Alliance asks home- 
makers and houseworkers to cut out the 
waste in the home. 

Don't waste food, it will feed the hungry. 

Don't waste fuel, it furnishes power to 
keep men at work. 

Economy in the home is the defense of 
the nation. 

The Alliance invites each homemaker to 
reward successful economies in her own 
kitchen, and to enter the results in compe- 
tition for a prize to be offered for the best 
showing in economy during the next six 
months. 

Make reports to Prize Competition Sec- 
retary, Mrs. Orville Peters, 1900 S Street 
N. W., Washington. 

The South Carolina Home Economics 
Association held its third annual meeting 
in Columbia, S. C, Friday, [March 17th, in 
connection with the state teachers' associa- 
tion, of which it is a part. Miss Martin, the 
president, presided over an unusually large 
meeting, that left the olVicers encouraged 
over the rapid growth of the work and the 
interest taken in it. Mrs. Henrietta Cal- 
vin spoke on Home Economics Work and the 
Status of the Teacher. Other talks were: 
How Can I Make a Beginning in My Com- 
munity in Home Economics, Miss Bessie 
Rogers; The Influence of Home Demonstra- 
tion Work in Making the Home Economical 
and Ellicicnt, Miss Mary Lemmon; The 
Home Beautiful, Miss Mary Krayser; Di- 
vision of Time, Miss Catherine Mulligan; 
Preparedness, The Teacher, Miss .Mary 
.Mcfiowan. 

Two Questionnaires. That cvcr>' record 

of what lias l>ccn done under given conditions 
is an imi>ortant lielp in the science of man- 
agement and pfliciency; that l)eginncr» in 



homemaking are asking their elders for 
guidance in the business relations and eco- 
nomics of an individual income and outgo; 
that the housewife wants to learn what 
others have found possible; and that instruc- 
tion in these subjects may be made more 
accurate and valuable are reasons given for 
justifying the request for information in the 
questionnaire on how to spend the income, 
sent out by Miss Elliott, instructor in House- 
hold Management at Simmons College. 

The questionnaire was prepared for former 
students but answers by others will be 
warmly welcomed. 

Every item asked for involves information 
which bears on the economic problems of 
some home. 

A second questioimaire of much interest 
is that issued by the Women's Educational 
and Industrial Union in its study of the Food 
of Working Women of Boston, undertaken 
with the purpose of finding out how these 
girls can be supplied with good nourishing 
food at a minimum cost. Believing that 
hundreds of girls have worked out ingenious 
answers to this question and that mutual 
aid is the most important factor in the solu- 
tion of e\-ery social problem the Union co- 
operating with several other organizations 
is undertaking to put the results of experi- 
ence in available form. 

The forty-third annual National Con- 
ference of Charities and Correction at 
Indianapolis May 10, 1916, made its greatest 
contribution in the field of education through 
a series of six meetings arranged by the 
committee on Children under the chairman- 
ship of Miss Julia C. Lathrop of the Federal 
Children's Bureau. These were given over 
entirely to a consideration of the social ^rv- 
ice value and demands ujwn the public 
school. At one session the liveliest sort of 
give-and take argument on the Clary scheme 
was indulged in. The public school teacher* 
of Indiana]>olis made sfx^cial arrangements to 
lake advantage ol the Conference. In ad- 
dition, on one day a meeting of college and 
university teachers was arranged to consider 
the use of data of social work in teaching 
sociolog)'. 



19161 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



403 



The conference at Indianajxilis lasted 
eight days and broke all previous records for 
size of gathering of men and women engaged 
professionally in social work. The main di- 
visions of discussions were ui)on children, 
corrections, the family and the community, 
feeble-mindcdness and insanity, health, ine- 
briety, promotion of social programs, public 
and private charities, and unemployment. 
The next session will be held at Pittsburgh 
during the spring of 1917 under the presi- 
dency of Frederic Almy, Secretary of the 
Buffalo Charity Organization Society. Mr. 
Almy has already announced as the subject 
for his presidential address, The End of 
Poverty. 

The Johns Hopkins University. As an 
outcome of the recent Educational Survey 
in Marj'land, the summer session of the 
Johns Hopkins University offers, under the 
approval of the State Superintendent of 
Education, courses of instruction which will 
enable persons to make preparation toward 
the varioUs teachers' certificates specified in 
the new law which went into effect June 1. 

/Vmong these certificates is one for high 
school teacher of domestic science and art. 

The courses which can be taken to meet 
the state requirements and also be credited 
toward the Bachelor of Science degree in- 
clude domestic science and art. 

A Self- Supporting Food Department. 
One of the best plans for the sale of food 
cooked in Home Economics classes is that 
carried out in the State Normal School at 
Valley City, N. D. The food courses are 
self-supporting and recipes are prepared in 
quantity for family use (that is, to serve an 
average of from four to eight). The list of 
recipes to be prepared during the day is 
posted on the bulletin board in the main 
hall; a small show case is provided at the en- 
trance of the cooking laboratory and as soon 
as a recipe is completed the dishes are ar- 
ranged for sale. There is a constant de- 
mand for these products from teachers, stu- 
dents who are doing light housekeeping, and 
housekeepers in the town. The work of the 
classes is hampered in no way,|because the 



needs of the students determine the article 
prepared, and those who wish to jiurchasc 
must adjust the .satisfaction of their de- 
mands to the supply. .\ housekeci>er may 
call up to find out what is on hand or even 
adjust her day for inviting guests to a time 
when the particular article she wishes will be 
available. 

The students figure the cost of the recipes 
and become acquainted with the market value 
of the food materials before and after prepa- 
ration. They are permitted small servings 
of all the (lishis so that they may know 
the flavor of all of them. The added inter- 
est that the preparation of a salable prod- 
uct creates is apparent in the spirit with 
which the students work. The Home Eco- 
nomics department becomes also a recog- 
nized factor in the community through its 
relation to the housewife and has an op- 
portunity to keep in touch, in a small 
measure, with the needs of the home. 

The State Interdenominational School 
of Missions will hold a ten days' meeting 
with the College of Industrial Arts, at Den- 
ton, Texas, during its summer session. The 
school will have probably 200 women in at- 
tendance, who in addition to the regular 
courses of study will take Home Economics 
work especially planned for them by the 
faculty of the college. 

There are also planned for this session non- 
credit courses for mature women that are 
practical and that render real service to the 
many women of the state. 

The summer session of this state college 
for women of Te.xas has been lengthened 
this year to eight weeks and will include two 
schools, a Summer Normal Institute and the 
regular Summer School of the college. 

The Summer Normal Institute is intended 
primarily for teachers in the state who are 
working for the various grades of teachers' 
certificates and who by attending the Col- 
lege of Industrial Arts may avail themselves 
of one or more Home Economics subjects. 

The Summer School may be called the 
fourth term of the college year with stu- 
dents who wish credits on their regular three 
or four year courses. 



404 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[July 



The college has recently been granted 
rating as a college of the first rank and the 
number of students remaining in Texas to 
take their degree in this college is expected to 
greatly increase each year. 

New courses this year include work in 
library methods, expression, public school 
music, and a course in physical training and 
playground supervision. A special course 
will be given for canning club and home 
demonstration agents of Texas. 

Mr. A. C. Monahan of the United States 
Bureau of Education, one of a number of 
lecturers and speakers of national reputa- 
tion will give a series of nine lectures on 
problems of rural schools and rural life. 
H. T. Mussellman, Editor of the Texas 
School Journal, Dallas, is among the Texas 
lecturers. 

The faculty, of more than sixty, will be 
made up of directors and instructors in the 
various departments and of prominent edu- 
cators of Texas and other states. 

Canada's Work. Those who are inter- 
ested in the extension education carried on 
in the United States under the Smith-Lever 
Act will be glad to see this summary of 
similar work in Canada, also under Govern- 
ment auspices. 

Of the activities encouraged and pro- 
moted by funds provided under The Agri- 
cultural Instruction Act of the Dominion 
none is more worthy than the improved 
means which have been made possible for 
the development of the boys and girls. 
Boys' and girls' clubs; school fairs; nature 
study classes in the public schools; school 
gardens, all encourage association and socia- 
bility as well as a love for outdoor life. 
All four divisions of the work receive sui)- 
stantial support in every pro\'incc from the 
grants derived under the Agricultural In- 
struction Act. In Prince Edward Island, 
the sum devoted to these purfKjses in 
1913-14, the first year the Act was in opera- 
tion, was $5,529; in the third year, or in 
1915-16, it is $10,050. In Nova Scotia 
the sum thus employed under the Art in 
1913-14 was $6,700; in 1915 16 it is $in/KH). 



In New Brunswick in the first year it was 
$1,500; in the third year it is $10,000. In 
Quebec the first year it was $3,000; in the 
third it is $8,000. In Ont:jjrio it was $10,000; 
it is now $20,000. In Manitoba it was 
$2,000; it is this year $5,200. In Sas- 
katchewan it is $2,100. In British Col- 
umbia $1,000 was so used in 1913-14, but 
this year for boys' and girls' competitions, 
fairs, etc., and instruction in public schools, 
$17,000 is to be spent from the grants. It 
must be understood that while in some of the 
provinces the money is directly employed 
for tlie purposes set forth, in others it is used 
in other ways and the sum required for school 
fairs, school gardens, and so on, is received 
from provincial and municipal sources. The 
figures, however, are in themselves abun- 
dant indication of the far-reaching benefits 
conferred by the Act. 

Brief Notes. A silver tea given by Mt. 
Pleasant W. C. T. U. at the Wilson Normal 
School Tea Room on Wednesday, March 29, 
was addressed by Mrs. Charlotte White 
Lee on Practical and Esthetic Dress, illus- 
trated by models. Dr. Lauretta Kress 
spoke on Dress in Relation to Health, while 
others followed with short talks on Chris- 
tian, moral, and honest dress. A recitation 
in the costume of "grandma's day" was 
given. 

At a meeting of the Dietitian's Section of 
the New England Home Economics Associa- 
tion, March 22, the following subjects were 
discussed: Tlie High Caloric Diet in T\phoid, 
and DilTercnces in the Dietetic Treatment 
of Medical and Surgical Cases of Gastric 
Ulcer. 

Miss Anna McMillan, Teachers College, 
Columbia University, has been apjwintcd 
to succeed Miss Kathcrine IngersoU, who 
has resigned, as instructor in charge of Do- 
mestic Art at Lewis Institute, Chicago, III. 
The entire Domestic Economy Department 
is planning improvements in the courses and 
curricula for the coming year. 



1916] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



405 



General Federation of Women's 
Clubs, Thirteenth Biennial Convention. 
Doubtless the earliest impressions of all 
who attended the Biennial in New York June 
1-16 were (1) of the phenomenal size of an 
organization represented by such an enor- 
mous delegation as that assembled, and (2) 
the extensive nature of the organization, 
emphasized by the representations not only 
from most remote sections of the United 
States, but from Alaska, Honolulu, and other 
distant places. Visitors from many other 
nations increased the emphasis upon the 
wide-spread interest in the mo\ement and 
its work. 

Two purposes in the arrangements were 
apparent, namely, to present the vision of 
present-day forms of constructive activities, 
and to aid club leaders with helpful and 
definite suggestions for local leadership. 

Of special interest at the former business 
sessions were the rejwrts of the different 
department chairmen, presenting briefly the 
work of the departments in the past four 
years, followed by addresses emphasizing 
special phases of the department interests. 

The afternoon sectional conferences were 
of great value; conser\alion, education, 
literature, civics, music, art, public health, 
home economics, legislation, cixil ser\ice 
reform, industrial and social conditions, 
all receinng attention with e.xcellent ad- 
dresses and discussions. Home Economics 
seemed to be a most important topic, 
judging from the crowded sessions and 
the interest shown in the splendid programs 
which Miss Helen Louise Johnson, the 
National Chairman, presented. 

In the forenoon general conference. 
President Vincent of the University of 
Minnesota, speaking upon Homemaking 
as a fine art, gave a most gratifying tribute 
to the work being done through Home 
Economics teaching. He pointed out the 
great significance of the fact that it bases its 
work not upon tradition handed downi from 
generation to generation, but upon science. 
It strives to secure a business recognition 
for home activities, so that women so en- 
gaged shall not be classed as at present in 



the census as not among those engaged in 
"gainful occupations." In the great inter- 
play of personality in the home intercourse 
are great economic, esthetic, and spiritual 
tasks of which the material activities arc 
but the e.xpression. Home Economics in- 
volves vastly more than nutrition and 
decoration; it aims at vastly more. Its 
ideals are those of sincerity, simplicity and 
beauty, not of ostentation. It dreams of a 
time when taste and art and appropriate- 
ness rather than fashion will control in 
life. At a time when great waves of com- 
monness and vulgarity are in danger of 
sweeping over us we need to emphasize 
the duty, the pri\'ilege, and the obligation 
of each family to live its own life and ideab 
and so to become a missionary to the masses. 
Home Economics teaches the finest of the 
arts, and homemaking exemplifies it when 
it lends itself to creating souls, lives which 
may live beautifully. 

During the Conferences Dr. Carl Alsberg 
spoke upon Why We Need Uniform Food 
Laws; Prof. Graham Lusk, upon The 
Study of Food Values; Mr. Lawrence V'eiller 
upon How Women can Help Solve the 
Housing Problem; Miss Mabel Kittredge 
upon Home Economics and Shelter; Dean 
Arnold upon The Child in the Home; Miss 
Julia Lathrop upon Education of Mothers 
as a Problem in Democracy; and Lady 
Dufif-Gordon upon Clothes and the Woman. 

Miss Fales of Teachers College presented 
an interesting i)ageant of living models show- 
ing the clothes of the past twenty-five years, 
followed by several furnished by B. A. 
.•Mtman Company of conservative lines, 
suitable for more than a season's fancy. 
In a conference on DifiFerent Phases of The 
Dress Question the subject was discussed 
by consumers and producers, by those who 
wear, make, and sell styles. The dominant 
note of the discussion was the need of a 
saner control of dress so that the caprices 
of fashion shall dictate less frequent change, 
with a more thoughtful and intelligent se- 
lection of clothing which in simplicity and 
in better adaptation of line and color to the 
individual shall give more artistically beau- 
tiful clothing at a reduced expenditure. 



HOME ECONOMICS MEETINGS OF THE N. E. A. 

At the Annual Meeting of the N. E. A. to be held in New York the week of Julj' 3, two 
Home Economics section meetings arc announced for July 4 and July 5, respectively. The 
meeting on Tuesday, July 4, to be held at the Washington Irving High School, Irving Place 
and 16th Street; that of Wednesday, July 5, at Teachers College. 

PROGRAM 

Tuesday, July 4 

Washington Irving High School — 5th Eloor Lunchroom 
President of Home Economics Association, Chairman 
10.00 a.m. Continuation classes in household arts 

Cleo Murtland, Secretary of Women's Work in the National Society for 
the Promotion of Industrial Education 
Teaching practical dietetics 

C. F. Langworthy, Chief of Office of Home Economics, U. S. Dept. of Agri- 
culture 
Teaching fabric values 

Nellie Crooks, Director of Household Economics, Milwaukee-Downer 
College, Milwaukee, Wis. 
Teaching dress reform through the schools 
Ethel Ronzone, University of Missouri 

Wednesday July 5 

Teachers College, Chapel 
2.00 p.m. Sanitation in food shops and markets 

Donald B. Armstrong, M.D., Association for Impro\ing the Condition 
of the Poor, New York City. 
Super\-i.-.ion of Home Economics instruction 

Mrs. Henrietta \\'. Calvin, Expert in Home Economics, United States 
Bureau of Education, Washington, D. C. 
With discussion by Emma Jacobs, Director of Domestic Science, Wash- 
ington, D. C; Margaret Holt, Acting Director of Cookery, New York 
City Schools; Mrs. Anna Hedges Talbot, Supcnisor \'ocational Edu- 
cation for Girls, New York State; Elizabeth Condit, Sujicrvisor of 
Hou.sehold Science, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Survey of Home Economics teaching in the Cleveland schools. 

Alice Boughton, Supervisor of School Luncheons for the League of Home 
and School Associations, Philadelphia, I'a. 

With discussion by Florence Winchcll, Ethical Culture School, New 
York City; Arthur D. Dean, Chief, Division of \'ocational Schools, 
New York State. 

The N. E. .\. will also have two i)rograms of special intt-rcst to teachers of Home Economics, 
one on Monday, July ,? at 9..W a.m. and one on Wedncsdav. Jiilv .">. at 9..W a.m., both at 
Concert Hall, Madison Sfjuare (iarden. 



Vol. VIII, Xo. 8 AUGUST, 1916 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Honiemakinfi. Institution Manajjement, 
and Educational Work in Home Kconomics 

Mas Alice P. xNobtos, EHior Ketl-kaii E. Baldwin. Manasint EJiiot 

Editorial Board 
Mas. Mary H. .\bel .Asna Barbows C. F. Langwobthy Isabel Ely Lord 

Ex-Officio A/ rm/rrj— Martha Van Rensselaer, Prt-sidcnt .American ilnme Economics Association 
Emma H. (;i vtiikk. Chairm.-in Institution Economics Section 
Ruth VVhekler. Chairman Science Section 
Neale S. Kno\vu:s, Chairman Extension E<Iucation Section 

Collaborators — The Ofliccrs, Members of the Council, and .\dvisers 



CONTENTS 

The Value of the Woman of Leisure Lmorr Ilanna Cox 4<)7 

Florida's First Home Demonstration Centk.r Sarah ir,/r/;/.i,' Partridge 414 

A City Housekeeping Center • Ruth Ranscm ami Jancl Wilkins AM 

Cleaning Silver by Contact with Ah mimim in Alkaline Solution .... 

//. L. Lang and C. F. WaJton, Jr. 418 
The Municipal Laundry Problem Donald B. Armstrong, M.D. 422 

Standardization of Temperatures for Cooking Batti rs and Doughs .... 

Louise Stanley and May Wallace 429 
Wage Worth of School Training Mary Schenck Woolman 4.W 

For the Homemaker 441 

The Business of Homemakkng Mrs. Harvey M. Ilickolc 441 

Ready-Made and Homemade Clothing Charlotte Gibbs Raker 448 

The Homemade Fly Trap 451 

Breakage of Jars in Canning 452 

Editorial 45^ 

Books and Literature 455 

Bibliography of Home Economics 459 

News from the Field 4<^,1 



The Journal of Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics .Association. 
$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.25. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on .New York, Express Order 01 Postal Money Order, payable 
to the American Home Economics .Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CH.WGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which the 
change it to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERIC.VX HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION Station N, Baltimore, Md. 

Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Pott Office 




Interior of Laundrv Showing Washing Machine on Left, Four Hydro-Extractors, Laundry 

Truck, and Racks 




Washing Machine Showing Four of the Eight Compartm.nl. in Which bach Family s 



Clothes arc Washed 



Tm. MiLDANK WtT-WASH Lalndry, New York City. ,Scc page 422.) 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. VIII AUGUST, 1916 No. 8 

THE VALUE OF THE WOMAN OF LEISURE 

LENORE HANNA COX 

"First catch your hare!" is a counsel of experience. Where is the 
woman of leisure? One can imagine the impatient question from the 
busy mother, the spinster full of affairs, the tired business woman. 
Perhaps she admittedly exists only in that semi-mythical limbo of the 
spectacular "smart set," advertised out of all proportion to is numeri- 
cal importance, where life seems to consist of religiously neglected 
duties, and hectic and costly pleasures. Certainly in no other sphere 
in our energetic land will a woman admit that she has leisure. "I 
should just love to" — study, exercise, read, or even play, one hears so 
often — "if only I had time!" 

What are our women doing with their time? There are still twenty- 
four hours in a day, three hundred and sixty-five days in the year — 
and most women (the estimate is carefully made) are at liberty to choose 
what they will do with some of that time. The woman who is the bread- 
winner for a dependent family cannot be said to have leisure. This 
applies, of course, only to the bread-winner who supports her family 
by unskilled labor, and is unable to buy the necessary services which 
ordinarily would be her duties. The unskilled woman wage earner is 
seldom a wage earner solely. She is mother, wife, or daughter, and 
gives to her dependents in the time that remains from her work the 
services demanded by her position. All other women — from the girl 
who supports herself by the labor of her hands, from the wife whose 
husband provides the means of subsistence for the family, however 
meagre, at one end of the scale, through all grades of afl3uence to the 

407 



408 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

luxuriously circumstanced wife or daughter of wealthy banker or mer- 
chant at the other — all have leisure, that is, time to spend as they choose. 

The leisure of the working girl is of course limited, and her youth 
demands that some of it be spent in physical exercise and pleasure. 
She must have young company, dance, be gay. Nevertheless, it is hers 
to choose whether all her evenings and holidays shall be so spent or 
not. That she is often, perhaps usually, incapable of choosing any 
other form of amusement or interest for her leisure hours is not her fault 
alone. The larger share of blame must rest upon our still imperfect 
social organization; but the opportunity exists when she is capable of 
embracing it. The mother of a large and growing family is also a person 
of little leisure; but large families seem to be growing beautifully less, 
and — "if this be treason make the most of it!" — too much time may be 
spent on a family's physical needs. 

These physical needs of the family engrossed the time and the most 
of the attention of our grandmothers. When the corn and wheat were 
raised, ground, and baked on the home premises; the animals killed and 
the meat cured; flax, cotton, and wool, if not grown, were yet spun and 
woven at home and there fashioned into garments; when the cobbler 
became a member of the household while he fitted out the family with 
shoes; when not only cider, but ale and beer, wine and spirits, were 
brewed and distilled at home for family use; then the "lady" — the 
"loaf -giver" as our Anglo-Saxon forbears called her — must have 
found her time much occupied. Whether she did these things with 
her own hands and the help of her children, or, as we read of Madam 
Washington, superintended the household affairs as she sat, like Pe- 
nelope, among her maids, it was an arduous and important work, and left 
but little unoccupied time. What about the house-mother of today? 
She may, and probably docs buy most of the necessities of life in the 
shops, finished ready for use. She does this not only because it would be 
difficult for her to obtain and manufacture the raw materials, if she knew 
how, but because the finished product is cheaper, produced as it is by 
machinery and in large quantities. 

Men, who have a genius for cooperation and coordination, perhaps 
produced, certainly stimulated, by their need of team work in time of 
war, have gradually taken women's work into their own hands. They 
first laid aside the sword for the pruning-hook, and women (to whose early 
agricultural efforts we owe the development of the cultivated cereals 
and fruits from the wild ones) were driven — shall we say promoted? — 



1916] THE VALUE OF THE WOMAN OF LEISURE 409 

from the fields to the house. Then came the machines for spinning; 
the looms worked by power instead of by hand; and the age of production 
had arrived, putting hitherto unthought of luxuries into the lives of the 
poor and the moderately well-to-do. Before the age of machinery the 
labor of a skilled artisan could buy for him only coarse bread and vege- 
tables, with an occasional dish of meat for food; and lindsey-woolsey 
and jeans for clothing, with perhaps alpaca and broadcloth, seldom 
renewed, for "Sunday best." Machines and the organization of 
industry, leading to an enormous increase in the material goods of life, 
are a purely masculine contribution to our social state. Women did 
their domestic work in individualistic seclusion; men do it by gregarious 
cooperation. 

In aU the years during which woman had been shielded from physical 
harm by the warlike male she had learned dependence, so now, without 
a murmur she let her work be taken away, keeping without question 
one function only — which Nature has made it impossible for man to 
usurp — that of bearing and rearing the young. That one function is per- 
haps enough to justify the existence of woman from Nature's point of 
view, but it is not enough to justify the existence of all women economi- 
cally. If this be, indeed, woman's only reason for being, spinsters and 
women past the child-bearing age should be eliminated. They have 
either already fulfilled or failed to fulfill their allotted function. Useless 
human beings are cumberers of the earth. It is time for women to show 
that their natural or political value does not rest solely on their faculty 
of reproduction ! Can this not best be shown by their use of the leisure 
which the activity of man has thrust upon them? 

All women resent, blindly or consciously, their relative uselessness in 
the scheme of civilization as it exists. The unconscious resentment 
takes a devil-may-care attitude, as who would say — "Very well, if you're 
bossing the job, do it! You'll get no help from me." Such women 
take every thing a man will or can give them, giving as little as possible 
in return. The woman who appreciates the position of her sex resent- 
fully often tries to ignore it by assuming the masculine attitude and 
point of view. She is likely to enter a profession and compete with 
man in his accustomed field, and is but too prone to assume that every 
woman may do the same, and that the sex-position is self inflicted. She 
works both good and ill to woman's general advancement. Such women 
do show indeed that their sole value does not lie in the faculty of repro- 
duction. They also seem to prove, sometimes, that activity along 



410 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

Other lines atrophies this faculty. What woman needs to make plain 
is that she combines with her maternal function other instincts which 
civilization cannot afford to ignore. 

There are few women, however they may resent their uselessness in 
the present scheme of civilization, who wish to return to the days of 
hand-looms and self-contained households. Much is said about the 
hardships of the woman factory worker of today, but her lot is physically 
easier than that of the mistress of the modest household seventy-five 
years ago. Let us have all the machinery possible! Mechanical labor 
done by human beings has nothing noble or ennobling in itself. It is 
purely the attitude of mind in regard to manual labor that ennobles 
it; and it was in this attitude of mind, this sense of the importance of 
her labor that the woman of seventy-five years ago scored — in spite 
of meagre comforts and excessive toil. 

How does the housewife of today spend the time her grandmother 
devoted to the manufacture of food and clothing? Of course she cooks 
and cleans, and washes dishes and clothes. She has allowed these 
minor elements of housekeeping to become overemphasized. Not 
that the food of the household is unimportant; bodily and mental health 
and energy depend upon the quantity and quality supplied. But the 
manner of preparing, the manner of ser\dng, the catering to whimsical 
taste and appetite, all these are thieves of time; and we are far indeed 
from the simplicity, usually combined with great dignity, of our fore- 
mothers. In the matter of clothing the offence is greater. Materials 
are ephemeral, yet they outlast the "styles" — a word formerly to be 
applied only to the garments of the rich. • It is difficult, it is impossible 
to draw a hard and fast line defining the boundary between the useful 
and the superfluous. Regarding clothes: so many excellent motives 
are adduced! The desire, first of all, that the child shall have what the 
parent has missed, in which respect the father is frequently as eagerly 
concerned as the mother; the love of beauty, crude it may be, that is 
gratified by making "pretty things" for home and children; the natural 
instinct of generosity in love that pours out on the beloved object a wealth 
of time and toil however useless. Who shall set a limit to this instinct? 
And yet, like the instinct of possession in love, it may work incalculable 
damage. The self-sacrificing, unsellish mother is apt to rear selfish, 
exacting children, and the balance may or may not be righted in the 
next generation. 

The value of woman's leisure is apparent when she realizes that she 



1916] THE VALUE OF THE WOMAN OF LEISURE 411 

is a member of a larger family than her immediate circle. There are 
few communities in our country today so unfortunate as not to have at 
least a few women who give their time and energy chiefly to public alTairs. 
Generally these are women mature in years and judgment, who have 
reared their families and established the routine of their households. 
They are women of all classes, of all grades of fortune. They work, 
together with the public-spirited men, on the boards of hospitals, of 
refuges, of creches, of charities of all sorts. They found voluntary 
civic associations to point out to the community its own needs, and to 
urge the public servants to do their duty. They interest themselves 
in politics (although in most states not recognized as citizens), partic- 
ularly in the relation of politics to the public health and the public 
schools. And sometimes they arise in their wrath at the general in- 
competence and dishonesty of public servants, and demand that there 
be a change; and by a tremendous exertion of "indirect influence" 
get, perhaps, a slight response! They arrange Chautauquas and lecture 
courses, art exhibits and music festivals, for the benefit and pleasure of 
their townspeople, and induce the beneficiaries to subscribe and attend. 
In many of the recognized charitable associations officered by men, these 
women, because they can control their time, do the routine work that 
alone makes success possible. They form the bulk of the "woman's 
club" — that innocent weapon with which women pried open the door 
of opportunity — where discussions have progressed from Greek poetry 
to modern prisons, from ahtique art to better babies. 

Such women are of inestimable and generally unestimated value to a 
community. In our still fluid American society they do the work of the 
leisured classes of those older peoples where ^^ noblesse oblige'^ has a 
meaning. It is impossible to praise too highly the noble, disinterested 
work of such women. But every woman has a duty as a citizen of the 
community in which she lives, of the state, of the nation. When she 
realizes that she must sacrifice her desire to do the utmost for her family 
in order to bear her share of the work of the larger world, by the measure 
of the difference in these circles has she become of greater value. She must 
refuse to multiply the superfluities of life, in order to use some of her 
leisure for thought and action on public affairs. It may be a matter 
of extreme importance to her (as one woman put it), "how my child's 
dress hangs, " or whether every pair of little drawers is lace trimmed, but 
undue attention to such detail takes time stolen from the study of life 
and affairs. The burning questions of tablecloths versus doilies, bouil- 



412 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

Ion cups versus soup-plates, serving-tray or no tray, furnishing the proper 
implement with each sort of food, the arrangement of creature comforts 
of bed and bath — all these cost time, and thought, and money. 

Among the most immoral influences of the time should be reckoned 
those magazines, advertised as especially adapted to the "woman in the 
home;" which make enhancement of physical comfort the sole business 
of the married woman, a sentimental love-match the sole goal of the 
young. From being the hardy pioneers of the world who subdued a 
continent in unprecedented time, we are becoming a nation of Sybarites; 
we can endure no hardship; machinery and foreign peasants do the rough 
labor; the native-born of a couple of generations of Americans is will- 
ing only to "boss the job." 

Our women have much to do with the present tendencies. Never, 
probably, has a great state existed in which woman's influence was so 
potent. There is good reason for this. Our women worked side by side 
with their men while this great continent was being changed from a 
wilderness to a cultivated state. The influence of this equal economic 
status, of this quiet, unassertive partnership has never been entirely 
lost with men of native American stock; the legend of women's value 
still persists. But she has to reckon, in urging her recognition in social 
and political relations, with men sprung from those older nations where 
women are still chiefly domestic animals or the playmates of leisure 
hours. To prove her value to the nation, despite her economic unpro- 
ductiveness, it is the duty of each woman to use her leisure, not in mere 
time-devouring pleasures, however innocent, not even to enhance 
unduly the physical well-being of her family, but to stimulate and in- 
crease their mental grasp, and her own. 

She may let the "Daily" supplant the "doily" with its attendant 
crotchet hook. Much is said and written about the worthlessness of our 
newspapers, but after all they do contain the news, and in order to choose 
the news that is worth while, only intelligence on the part of the reader 
is necessary, A half hour daily on a reputable newspaper, with a desire 
for knowledge, will work wonders in a mental outlook. The sensational 
novel and the easy-to-read magazine should give way to a thoughtful 
book. This sounds dry-as-dust, but the book need not be. There are 
books that are accurate, well-written, dealing with great questions, 
which arc at the same time thrillingly interesting. Some such strong 
meat should be a part, at least, of women's mental food. Can she not 
exchange the moving picture show, occasionally, for the drama of history 



1916] THE VAXUE OF THE WOiL\N OF LEISURE 413 

seen with the mental eye alone? Only by the example of the past may 
one estimate the historical drama of today now being "enacted and 
contrived" before our eyes. Not long ago a distinguished Italian 
historian — a thoroughly competent judge — made a comparison of the 
present state of our Republic with that of Republican Rome at the 
period of its decline. It seemed not altogether fanciful, but the value 
of the comparison was fully evident only to one who was a student both 
of history and of current events. 

These are stirring times. The war probably marks a great change, 
a turning point in the history of mankind; for, wherever one's sym- 
pathies may be, all are practically agreed that the ultimate struggle 
is between Feudalism and Democracy. The war is giving to the women 
of the warring countries their greatest chance; men's work is being 
thrust upon them and they are nobly taking up the burden. Every 
change in woman's condition has been thrust upon her from outside, 
but no change has found her unequal to the task. Woman is the static 
sex, as must be, since she bears within herself the future race, but when 
change does come, she shows a marvelous power of adaptability. So 
now she is everywhere doing "her bit" in an entirely new world. The 
American woman has had a world-wide reputation for activity and 
initiative. Is she to be the only woman of the world to sit at ease and 
let the wave on which her sisters are riding to economic independence 
pass her by? She cannot now play the part of the women of France, 
of Belgium, of Germany, and England, but she can prove by her work, 
by her conversation, by her earnest endeavor, most of all she can show 
by her voluntary activities, that she could play the part if fate should 
cast her for it. Frivolities, Romance, and Tatting may suit " the piping 
times of peace;" they are not fit pastimes when a political creed hangs in 
the balance. 



414 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

FLORIDA'S FIRST HOME DEMONSTRATION CENTER 

SARAH WARING PARTRIDGE 
Agent of Home Demonstration Work, Hillsborough County, Florida 

The thought that gave birth to Florida's First Home Demonstration 
Center had its origin in the brain of Marshall Moore, Superintendent 
of Public Instruction for Hillsborough County, Florida. 

WTien ]Mr. IMoore entered upon the duties of this office, January 1, 
1913, he brought with him a keen sense of the educational needs of the 
people of the county and some big ideas of how these needs might be met. 

Among them was a plan out of which grew our present work. This 
plan was to place centers within access of outlying country districts 
where the neighborhood folk could gather for training along all lines of 
work pertaining to home Hfe; for the study of home and farm problems; 
for social intercourse; in fact, for whatever might prove for the uplift 
of the home and community. Mr. Moore proposed doing this by erect- 
ing, within access of neighboring communities, a building of pavilion 
type, equipped for community meetings. I saw at once that his problem 
was my problem; and this plan, one of the possible happy solutions 
of the same. Together we have worked out our Home Demonstration 
Center, an adaptation of the original idea. 

For a locality in which to start this work, we chose a scattered neigh- 
borhood, eight miles from the nearest railroad point. The houses, 
from one to four miles apart, are unpainted, unceiled, frame buildings, 
devoid of all conveniences, and with no thought of beauty or sanitation. 
The only suggestion of the outside world in this modern "Sleepy Hollow" 
is the "chug, chug," of the ubiquitous Ford, which has found its way 
even here. 

As a house in which to work, we took an old abandoned one-room 
school house, a frame building ,which was as unattractive in appearance 
as the poorest home about it. We were not sorry to find it so, for the 
first demonstration which we wished to make was of some of the possi- 
bilities in such an old shell as this. Wc ceiled it overhead, painted it 
inside and out, and screened windows and doors. The room, 36 x 18 
feet, we divided into two by the use of portieres. We removed the pitcher 
pump which stood about twenty feet in front of the building, and put 
in its stead a small force pump. We laid pipe under ground to the rear 
of the building. With elbow connection, the pipe rises to the top of a 



1916] FLORroA's FIRST HOME DEMONSTRATION CENTER 415 

covered barrel placed on a stand eight feet high, entering the barrel 
just below the first hoop. A cut of! was inserted in the pipe near the 
pump, making it possible to pump the water through the mouth of the 
pump, or, by reversing the cut ofif, to throw it through the pipe into the 
barrel at the rear of the building. A short joint of pipe running from 
the bottom of the barrel through the back of the building carried the 
water into the rear of the building, which we use as a kitchen. A three 
inch pipe, in the top of which is fitted a large funnel with strainer, passes 
down through the floor, and with an elbow is buried beneath the soil. 
The end of this pipe is stuffed with Spanish Moss to prevent the soil 
from packing into it, and a box is turned over the pipe for the same 
purpose. The whole is underground. Through this funnel all water 
from the building is poured and seeps into the sandy soil. This does 
away with the usual puddle of dish water, or the "slop barrel" found 
beneath so many kitchen windows. 

The room at the front of the building is 10 x 18 feet, and is furnished 
very simply but tastefully as a dining room and living room. A green 
matting art square covers the floor, and, with the green burlap portieres 
and the dainty ecru curtains of scrim and net that hang at the four cot- 
tage windows, forms a pleasing contrast with the delicately tinted grey 
walls of the room. An extension table of weathered oak, six oak chairs, 
a settee, and a homemade oak utility box for the linen, complete its 
furnishings. 

The portieres, curtains, and the hemstitched and monogrammed table 
linen, made under our direction by the Canning Club Girls of this 
neighborhood, are beautifully done. The younger girls hemmed the 
cup towels. Each little crooked stitch is a mute tribute to their interest 
in the center and the eagerness with which they look fonvard to their 
tenth birthday, the age at which they may become Club girls. The 
interest of outsiders has been manifested by substantial gifts. The 
pretty set of china which we use in the dining room was given by the 
Plant City Courier^ a paper published in Plant City, Florida, and the 
flat silver for the table by Knight and Wall, a hardware firm in Tampa. 

The rear of the building, 26 x 18 feet, we have equipped for a kitchen. 
When planning the furnishings, we economized space so that twenty- 
four girls may work n this room without crowding. Three tables 10x4 
feet were made for the room, wo of them placed lengthwise, the third 
across the rear of the building. On each side of these tables are drawers 
twelve inches deep, each drawer divided by a partition into two equal 



416 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

parts. The center drawer is used as a supply drawer, while in each 
division of the other two drawers is an individual equipment of cooking 
utensils, furnishing supplies and equipment for eight girls at each table. 
The tables are covered with white oil cloth. Placed in the center of the 
two tables which run lengthwise in the room, are two hot plates, 1x4 
feet in size and each having four burners. There is a portable oven 
with glass door for each hot plate. There is sufficient space between 
the butting ends of the hot plates to place a pair of scales and a desk 
garbage jar. With the exception of the hot plates, the third table is 
similarly equipped. For the use of these girls we have a large range 
set in line with the table, so that the girls may learn its use and care. 
Gasoline is the fuel used. 

We opened this place for work December 17, 1915, and already it has 
been the center of many activities, while the interest and loyalty of the 
community folk have made the work delightful. Twice a month meet- 
ings are held for women and girls. Practical lessons in cooking, sewing, 
household management, home conveniences, and sanitation are given. 
The social hour is not neglected. We have held community meetings 
in which the men, women and children have participated. We have 
had days with the Corn Club boys and Canning Club girls, days in 
which we worked one-half of the day and spent the rest in sports of 
various kinds — games, races, and contests. We have brought to these 
people our workers from other sections, who have met and mingled 
with them, bringing to them the inspiration of a broader life. But 
whatever these workers and lessons may have taught, most of all it is the 
Center that is continually holding out an ideal of what their own homes 
might be. 

The influence of this Center is not confined to this narrow sphere. 
People from nearby also come here for work, and the women of another 
community in the county have secured and are equipping a room for 
their own use; and because of what it is meaning in our work in Hills- 
borough County, similar centers are being planned for four other points 
in the state. While this Center does not measure up to Mr. Moore's 
original plan, we believe that it will eventually lead to its development, 
and our first Home Demonstration Center in Florida prove the mustard 
seed of our planting. 



1916] A CITY HOUSEKEEPING CENTER 417 

A CITY HOUSEKEEPING CENTER 

RUTH RANSOM AND JANET WILKINS 

In the heart of the Italian district of Chicago, seven years ago, a four 
room tenement flat, consisting of a living room, dining room, bedroom, 
and kitchen was furnished at an approximate cost of two hundred 
dollars, to serve as a model for a family of small means. The amount 
expended was that found to be ordinarily used by a family paying an 
equal amount of rent in that neighborhood. 

The purpose of the flat is to teach the neighborhood children and 
working girls how to furnish a home; how to keep that home attrac- 
tively clean; and how to prepare simple, cheap, and wholesome meals. 

At present, the flat is serving a wider purpose in that each morning 
a mothers' class in cooking or sewing is directed by a trained worker. 
In the cooking classes the women are taught to prepare nutritious 
American foodstuffs at a minimum cost. While they are eating the 
meal they have prepared, at an attractively set table, they coxnpute 
the cost of each dish and discuss, in simple terms, the nutritive value. 
In the sewing classes they are taught to make over garments, to make 
new for themselves and their children, and to use paper patterns. One 
afternoon a week, the women who have taken their babies to the Clinic 
of the Infant Welfare Society come to the flat and are taught how to 
cook the foods which are particularly good for their babies. All the 
women are visited in their homes and are given practical advice as it 
is desired. Weekly budgets, sanitary conditions, and other household 
matters are the chief topics of conversation. 

Each afternoon, after school, a class of eight children, ranging in age 
from ten to sixteen years, meets under the supervision of a second 
instructor. The children come one afternoon a week for three years. 
During this time, by preparing simple meals and by doing the entire 
housekeeping of the flat, they learn the principles of cooking and 
housekeeping. 

Every evening at six o'clock a group of working girls come to the 
flat directly from work to cook their dinner. Besides learning how to 
cook they eat their meal at a carefully set table and discuss household 
equipment and management. Many of the girls are engaged to be 
married and they take infinite pride in their newly acquired knowledge. 
Cook books are kept by all the classes and extra recipes are distributed 
widely throughout the neighborhood. 



418 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

The Center exerts a wide influence in the neighborhood. About two 
hundred persons come to classes each week and repeated calls are made 
upon the flat for assistance in various difficulties, such as fases of sick- 
ness, extreme need, unemployment, family quarrels, and delinquent 
children. In these matters it cooperates with the charitable organiza- 
tions of the city. 

The Center is supported by the Association of Practical Housekeeping 
Centers. The total expenditure for one term of nine months is about 
thirteen hundred dollars. This provides for one teacher. For two 
teachers the expense is doubled. 



CLEANING SILVER BY CONTACT WITH ALUMINIUM IN 
ALKALINE SOLUTION^ 

H. L. LANG AND C. F. WALTON, JR. 

Scientific Assistants, Office of Home Economics, States Relations Service, U. S. Department 

of AgriciUture 

INTRODUCTION 

An investigation of the different methods of silver cleaning has been 
conducted in the Office of Home Economics as a part of an extended 
study of methods of cleaning metals and other common household 
equipment. This paper is a preliminary report of the results obtained 
in cleaning silver by the electrolytic method. Unlike most other 
metals, silver and gold are not tarnished by the oxygen, water vapor, 
or carbon dioxide present in the air, nor by the action of weak organic 
acids. Silver, however, readily forms the black silver sulphide on 
coming in contact with suli)hur compounds, small quantities of which 
arc commonly found in the air as the result of burning coal and illumi- 
nating gas, while larger amounts occur in vulcanized rubber, wool, and 
foods like eggs. The problem of cleaning silver involves the removal 
of the tarnish of silver sulphide by some method which will also restore 
the polish to the surface of the metal. 

' Read before the Fifty-second Meeting of the American Chemical Society held at Urbana- 
Cbampaign, 111,, April 18-21, 1916. 



1916] CLEANING SILVER WITH ALUMINIUM 419 

A few years ago the so-called electrolytic method for cleaning silver 
was introduced to the public, and several forms of these cleaners, which 
are all alike in principle, are now found on the market. In this method 
the silver is cleaned by bringing it into actual contact with aluminium 
in a solution of an electrolyte. Briefly the chemistry of the process 
may be explained as follows: 

Aluminium is electrolytically more active than silver, or, chemically 
speaking, it is said to be electro-positive referred to silver. In the 
presence of an electrolyte like sodium carbonate or sodium chloride, or 
a mixture of both, aluminium forms aluminium ions in the solution and 
itself becomes negatively charged. The silver accordingly becomes 
positively charged as the current flows from the aluminium to the silver 
through the solution. In other words, such an arrangement of metals 
in an electrolyte may be considered to be an electrolytic cell. Since 
silver sulphide is slightly soluble, a small number of silver and sulphide 
ions are always present in the solution and the silver ions will give up 
their positive charges of the electricity and plate out on the silver or 
negative pole as silver atoms. Any agency making the silver sulphide 
more soluble will increase the number of silver and sulphide ions and, 
provided the silver ions are plated out as rapidly as they are formed, 
this will increase the rate of the reaction. Moreover, in accordance 
with the law of mass action, the greater the number of aluminium ions 
formed in the solution, the greater will be the tendency for silver sulphide 
to be reduced to metallic silver. The conditions are apparently most 
favorable to the completion of the reaction when a dilute solution of 
sodium carbonate is used as the electrolyte. The hydrolysis of this 
salt furnishes a fairly strong alkaline solution. 

(1) NaoCOg + 2H20-^H20 + CO2 + 2NaOH. 

Aluminium then displaces hydrogen from a boiling solution of the 
alkali. 

(2) Al + 3NaOH-»Na3A103 + 3H. 

The atomic hydrogen supplied by this reaction reduces the silver 
sulphide. 

(3) AgjS -t- 2H-.H2S + 2Ag. 

When an excess of hydrogen ions is continually being formed, the 
sulphide ions are gradually removed to form molecules of H2S. In this 
way the equilibrium between Ag2S (undissociated) and its ions is dis- 
turbed, and accordingly more Ag2S dissolves. The reaction finally is 
completed and, since the excess of aluminium ions plates the silver out 
on the positive pole, practically no silver is lost. 



420 THE Jt>URNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

EXPERIMENTAL STUDY OF THE METHOD 

The main object of this investigation was to determirt the value of 
the method and the factors necessary for its efficient operation under 
household conditions. The methods and apparatus accordingly were 
simple and in most cases applicable to household use. The silver was 
tarnished by immersing it in a strong potassium sulphide solution, and 
in order that the tarnish should be uniform for a comparative series of 
tests, all of the spoons to be used in each series were placed in the sul- 
phide solution for the same length of time. Porcelain or agate-ware 
dishes were used for containing the solution of electrolyte which was 
made up by adding different amounts of soda and salt to a quart or two 
of water. The active metal used, aluminium or zinc, or an alloy of both, 
and the tarnished silver were then placed in direct contact in the solu- 
tion, which had previously been heated to the desired temperature, 
and the time necessary for cleaning was noted by a stop watch. Using 
these methods of procedure, several different electrolytes of varying 
concentrations were tested; experiments were conducted at different 
temperatures; the relative efficiency of aluminium, zinc, and an alloy 
of these metals was studied; and the merits of the electrolytic method 
were investigated as compared with the advantages of cleaning silver 
by polishing with an abrasive material. In addition, several com- 
mercial types of electrolytic cleaners were examined in the laboratory. 

From the theory of the cleaning process as formulated earUer in the 
paper it would appear that there is practically no loss in weight of the 
silver cleaned by the electrolytic method, since the tarnish of silver 
sulphide is merely reduced to metallic silver. In order to verify this 
three sterling silver and three silver plated spoons were weighed, tar- 
nished and cleaned fifty times, and weighed after the final cleaning, 
zinc being used as the active metal in a solution of one teaspoonful of 
sodium carbonate to one quart of water at the boiling temperature. 
During the fifty cleanings the three sterling silver spoons lost O.OO-iJ, 
0.0034, and 0.0034 grams and the three plated spoons lost 0.0026, 0.0019, 
and 0.0024 grams, or an average of 0.00006 grams in each cleaning. 
This loss is insignificant when compared with the loss in polishing with 
an abrasive silver polish which actually cuts away the tarnish, as was 
shown by the following test. One sterling silver and one silver plated 
spoon were weighed, tarnished and cleaned six times by rubbing with 
a paste of finely powdered whiting and water, and weighed after the 
last cleaning. These spoons lost 0.0(J94 and 0.0087 grams, respectively, 



1916] CLEANING SILVER WITH ALUMINIUM 421 

or an average of 0.0015 grams in each cleaning, about twenty -five times 
as much as by the electrolytic method. 

Wliile the electrolytic method removes the tarnish effectively and 
with practically no loss of metal, it gives the articles cleaned a satin 
finish rather than the bright burnished appearance obtained when 
abrasive polishes are used. After the spoons used in these experiments 
had been cleaned a number of times by the electrolytic method it was 
found necessary to rub them with a paste of whiting and water to restore 
their original bright polish. In practice, therefore, it may be found 
desirable to use the electrolytic method as frequently as is necessary 
to remove the tarnish, and to rub the silver with some good abrasive 
polish only as often as may be desirable to restore the burnished appear- 
ance. 

A combination of the two methods is sometimes used by adding one 
or two teaspoonfuls of finely powdered whiting to each quart of the 
cleaning solution, and after removal the silver is allowed to dry without 
being rinsed. The film of whiting which adheres to it is then rubbed 
off with a soft cloth. This has the advantage of convenience but the 
polish obtained is not so bright as when the two methods are used 
separately. 

CONCLUSIONS 

The results of the experiments indicate that washing soda (sodium 
carbonate) is slightly more efficient than baking soda (sodium bicar- 
bonate), and that one teaspoonful of each washing soda and common 
table salt to a quart of water is the most economical concentration of 
the electrolyte. The most satisfactory results were obtained when the 
cleaning solution was kept at the boiling temperature, less than a minute 
usually sufiicing to clean the silver. Strips of both aluminium and zinc 
proved efficient for use as the active metal of the method, but the zinc 
corroded more quickly than the aluminium owing probably to the 
formation of a protective film of basic zinc carbonate, which had to be 
removed by hydrochloric acid. The electrolytic method of silver clean- 
ing has been found in general to be satisfactory for household use. Its 
principal advantage is that it saves labor. In addition, it is convenient 
and clean, and removes the tarnish from both sterling and plated silver- 
ware without appreciable loss of the metal. 



422 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

THE MUNICIPAL LAUNDRY PROBLEM^ 

DONALD B. ARMSTRONG, M.D. 

Director, Department of Social Welfare, New York Association for Improving the Condition 

of the Poor 

"Public health is purchasable;" so, indeed, is public cleanliness. As 
a matter of fact, it is obvious that, when we begin to spend money for 
public health, we can have no certainty of obtaining it unless we have 
entered the market for cleanliness. In general, cleanliness is a pre- 
requisite for health. If the state or the community recognizes a re- 
sponsibility in the form of maintaining health, it is quite logical, then, 
for it to recognize the obligation which lies upon it to make provision for 
pubhc decency. 

Many communities provide the means for the cleansing of human 
bodies. It is just as essential to health and decency that public faciU- 
ties, where private ones are lacking, should be provided for the cleans- 
ing of the garments, the condition of which must, otherwise, lower the 
tone of decency of the people in the community, I emphasize decency, 
for it is essential that health workers should realize more and more that 
it is impossible to justify most of our expenditures if we consider these 
expenditures to be inducive to health alone. It is very difficult definitely 
to ascribe ill-health to dirty streets, unsightly backyards, and such un- 
desirable elements in our physical environment for the eHmination of 
which we spend thousands yearly, not in reality to maintain public 
health, but, as a matter of fact, to establish pubhc decency. 

Among the great mass of the poorly housed tenement population of 
the large American cities, the facilities for washing and drying clothes 
are decidedly meagre, although cleanliness as regards our wearing ap- 
parel is always essential to decency and is frequently a factor in health. 
Recently the Bureau of Public Health and Hygiene of the Department of 
Social Welfare of the Association for Improving the Condition of the 
Poor concluded an investigation in New York City aimed at discovering 
the necessity for pubhc laundries or wash houses there and the cost of 
their equipment and operation. The Bureau made a statistical analysis 
from the hies of the Tenement House Department, supplemented by a 
house to house canvass, of the laundry facilities in the homes of tlie 

'Presented at the Annual Meeting of the Institution Economics Seition of the American 
Home Economics Association, Lake PIaci<l, N. Y., 1915. 



1916] THE MUNICIPAL LAUNDRY PROBLEM 423 

badly housed. The Bureau studied conditions on the east and west 
sides of the city and investigated, from this point of view, the housing 
conditions of about 205,000 people. Bathing facilities were also inves- 
tigated and it was found, striking an average for four dilTerent 
sections of the city, that the percentage of families without equipment 
was as follows: without bath, 92 per cent; without wash tubs in the home, 
40 per cent; without hot water, 87 per cent. 

A questionnaire was presented to 10,000 bathers at one of the mu- 
nicipal baths, by which an attempt was made, tlirough the aid of illus- 
trations of wash houses in other cities, to obtain an intelligent expres- 
sion of opinion as to the attitude of this group of typical East Sidcrs 
towards the establishment of a place where they could come and wash 
their clothes. 

As an illustration of the kind of publicity work done in this connec- 
tion, cards were handed out to each of the bathers depicting the advan- 
tages of a public wash house as follows : 

1. Nice, light, cool, ventilated room. 

2. Clean wash tubs. 

3. Plenty of hot water, soap, soda, starch, and bluing. 

4. Electric irons, ironing boards, baskets, scrubbing boards, wringers, 
tables, pails, and pans. 

5. Rapid steam dryer. 

6. Cloak room for lunches, packages, and outer clothing. 

7. Day Nursery — place to leave the children. 

8. Nice clean toilets. 

9. Cheap — 3 cents an hour. 

The women of all classes, economic and civic, were enthusiastically 
in favor of the proposition, while surprising as it may seem, a large per- 
centage of the men promised to make use of the common tubs if pro- 
vided. The statistical results of this investigation were as follows: 

Men Womtn 

Percentage that would use a public wash house 28.7 69 . 1 

Percentage that would not use a public wash house 66.9 10.3 

Percentage in doubt 4.3 20 .0 

The necessities here indicated have been met in a few American 
cities by the establishment of public laundries, or public wash houses, 
fashioned largely after the plan of those long in use in foreign cities. 

What is a public wash house? It is a place where those people who 
have very inadequate home facilities may go and wash their clothes under 
decent and sanitary conditions for a very small cost and with a mini- 
mum of time expenditure. The building, usually a part of a public 



424 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

bath, is plentifully supplied with steam and hot water, and is equipped 
with tubs (two or three for each washer), wringers, electric irons, iron- 
ing boards, scrubbing boards, and all minor utensils. Those using the 
establishment are also permitted to dry their clothes in large steam 
dryers, while at the same time a store is maintained where bluing, starch, 
and soap are sold at cost. Although it is very infrequently found in 
this country, there should always be in connection with such an estab- 
lishment a day nursery where the women can leave their children in 
safe hands while they do their laundry work. 

Such is a public wash house. There are about eighteen such institu- 
tions in America, five of which, and the most successful ones, are in Bal- 
timore, Maryland. As long ago as 1904 according to Bulletin No. 54 
of the Bureau of Labor, there were in the United States eleven public 
wash houses. These were situated as follows: Allegheny, Pa., 1; Balti- 
more, Md., 2; Buffalo, N. Y., 2; Chicago, 111., 1; Cleveland, Ohio, 1; 
Philadelphia, Pa., 2; Troy, N. Y., 1; Elmira, N. Y., 1. 

The first wash house to be established in this country was in Phila- 
delphia under the auspices of the Public Baths Association of Philadel- 
phia. This was opened on May 21, 1898. Buffalo wash houses were 
hardly worthy of the name, for they were inadequately equipped and 
were intended to be used by bathers in the adjoining bath house only 
for the purpose of washing underclothing. While Philadelphia must be 
considered the pioneer city in this regard, it is recognized that another 
city, Baltimore, has made the greatest advances in recent years in the 
development of public wash houses. As mentioned above, there are, 
at present, in Baltimore, five such institutions. 

Undoubtedly a large part of the success of public wash houses in 
Baltimore is the result of the fact that the Baltimore authorities have 
recognized the necessity of taking it to the people in the form of educa- 
tional work, publicity, and advertising, in the community adjacent to 
the estabhshment. Advertising is essential to the success of municipal 
wash houses or municipal laundries. The subject of laundry pubUuty 
would suggest the story told of the opening of a new private bath in 
(Mncirmati. It was their system of initial advertising to send out com- 
plimentary tickets not only entitling but encouraging the receiver to 
take a bath at this institution. Among the recii)ients of these tickets 
was Vice-President Marshall. In his case, liowevcr, whether with or 
without malice is not known, he received at frequent intervals a scries 
of these complimentary tickets. It is said that the Vice-President 



1916] THE MUNICIPAL LAUNDRY PROBLEM 425 

finally found it necessary to head off the bombardment and took as his 
means the writing of a letter to the bath proprietors stating in his 
letter that he considered the first ticket a courtesy, that he was com- 
pelled to look uf)on the second as a suggestion, and that if he received 
more tickets he would feel obliged to consider it an insult. 

Public laundries and wash houses have been in existence for nearly 
twenty years abroad, and in London in 1911 there were thirty-five such 
institutions, patronized by nearly a million washers. In the London 
wash houses there were in 1911, 1729 wash house units. The charge 
for the use of these is one penny per hour and it is found that the aver- 
age time per washer in London is two and a half hours. Abroad, they 
more nearly deserve the name of public laundry than that of public 
wash house, when the equipment includes electrically driven washing 
machines and hydro-extractors. Such, indeed, is a real public laujidry. 
It has many advantages both economic, social, and sanitary over the 
older type of public wash house. While the original cost of equipment 
of the laundry type is greater, the cost of operation is not especially 
excessive. Further than this the number of families that can be ac- 
commodated weekly or daily in a mechanically operated plant is much 
greater than the utmost capacity of the non-labor saving wash house 
equipment. In addition, the public laundry with its mechanical equip- 
ment is more sanitary, as the clothes are handled by only a few people 
and are sterilized before being returned. 

There would seem to be no reason why such an activity could not be 
justified from a municipal point of view, and as a demonstration of what 
the possibilities were in that field the Bureau of Public Health and 
Hygiene of the Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor 
has recently established in the Milbank Memorial Bath on East 38th 
Street, the first mechanically equipped wet wash laundry in America, 
to be operated under quasi-public auspices. This laundry is showing a 
constantly increasing patronage and is, at the present time, operated 
to its full capacity, ser\dng an average of nearly 500 families a week at a 
charge of 25 cents for 30 pounds of clothes, or 35 cents when collected 
and delivered. This agency for cleanliness and decency exists as a 
demonstration of sanitary methods of laundry operations and as a re- 
search laboratory for improvements in commercial laundry practices. 
It is planned as speedily as possible to place the institution on a self 
supporting basis so that it may be, perhaps, the initial demonstration of 



426 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

the possibilities for the municipalization of clean clothes — public neces- 
sities in New York City. 

Under what circumstances is the pubUc wash house ^*xperiment jus- 
tifiable? Obviously, where laundry facilities are poor in the home. 
Among tenements, where wash tubs are rare, where dark, damp courts 
provide the only means for drying, and hot water is frequently an im- 
possibility, the demand is urgent. From this point of \'iew, it is strange 
that the largest city in America, and indeed the typical tenement city, 
should be %vithout any pubHc or private provision of this kind in its 
most congested borough. Philadelphia, Baltimore, Buffalo, Elmira, 
Brooklyn, and other cities have found an urgent demand for, and an 
immediate success following the estabhshment of public wash houses. 
There can be no doubt of the necessity for these agencies of decency in 
many other large American cities, particularly on Manhattan Island. 

In the belief that public wash houses in New York City would meet 
a justifiable demand and because it would seem desirable to have both 
the wash house and the laundry experimented witli in New York City, 
the Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor have urged 
upon the municipal government the establishment of an experiment in 
the basement of one of the new public bath buildings on the West Side. 
Estimates regarding the cost of equipment and operation have been 
presented to the Borough President's office together with alternative 
estimates for a mechanical laundry equipment. This matter is now 
pending before the Board of Estimates and is being urged upon them 
for the follovving reasons: 

1. Careful investigation has shown that the majority of people in 
that neighborhood are without home laundry facilities. It is believed 
in any event that the laundry process is a thing that can best be carried 
on outside the home, in spite of the fact that Mr. Dowling, the alderman 
from this West Side district, opposes the wash house because he feels 
that one of the most attractive sights in this neighborhood is the b.nxrk- 
yard clothes line. Mr. Dowling has not yet expressed liimself as re- 
gards the fire escape and dark courtyard clothes line. 

2. 'J'he success of the wash house has been demonstrated in many 
other American and foreign cities. 

3. The capitiil investment is insignificant — not more than $3000 — 
while the operating expenses are simply those of an adtlitional attendant 
in the bath. 



1916] THE MUNICIPAL LAUNDRY PROBLEM 427 

4. The wash house will be of use to: (a) The mothers in the neighbor- 
hood with poor home facilities; (b) the young girls living alone; (c)* 
the men who are working in this country attempting to save enough to 
bring their families over; and (d) the destitute and homeless. 

5. The wash house is of both direct and indirect importance in the 
health of any neighborhood, is justified on the grounds of comfort, and 
is an educational factor in personal cleanliness and decency. 

Even though it is believed that the public laundry will meet a greater 
demand and serve a more fundamental pubUc service than does the 
wash house at present, nevertheless, there is no doubt that where wash 
houses have been established and intelligently operated they have been 
factors of social and sanitary importance. The wet wash laundry in the 
Milbank Bath, under the auspices of the Association for Improving the 
Condition of the Poor, is an experiment being conducted along essen- 
tially the same lines as would have to be the case were it under imme- 
diate municipal control. Further, the Association has guaranteed to 
conduct an educational campaign in the neighborhood of the proposed 
West Side wash house similar to the campaign carried on in connection 
with the East Side laundry. This is an opportunity to have both tried 
out under comparable conditions. Incidentally in this connection it 
may be mentioned that the Hudson Guild, a settlement house on the 
West Side near where it is proposed to establish the wash house, has 
agreed to operate a day nursery in connection with the wash house so 
that children may be cared for under safe auspices while the mothers 
are at work. It may be added here that the two wash houses in Phila- 
delphia with fourteen laundry units charging five cents an hour had a 
patronage, in 1911, of 4900 people. The live wash houses in Baltimore, 
with 35 laundry units charging three cents an hour, boasted a patronage, 
in 1912, of 22,000 people, about one-fifth of whom were men. 

Perhaps the chief theoretical advantage of the laundry over the wash 
house is the fact that it comes more nearly meeting what may be ex- 
pected to be the ultimate solution of the laundry problem in an inteUi- 
gently organized community. While it is true that each house should 
eventually have a private bath equipment, the same thing cannot be 
said for laundry equipment, for obviously it would be more social, more 
economical and more hygienic to have the work done outside the home 
under centralized, efficient control. A municipal mechanical laundry 
plan tried out in this country would be a step toward the ultimate solu- 



428 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

tion of the problem. Such a plant would be an essential part of the 
general program which would lay a better physical foundation for the 
social state towards which we are looking. 

Whether or not the public wash house, or, indeed, the public laun- 
dry is the ultimate solution of the laundry problem, it must be ad- 
mitted by all that here we have a condition — and a condition which 
must be met. It may not be possible under present conditions to apply 
a cure; it may be necessary to palliate the unfortunate circumstances. 
Ob\'iously, though not in its entire influence, the public wash house is a 
temporary expedient, a palliative measure, yet there are many thousands 
who must wash their clothes and cannot wait for housing or municipal 
reform. 

Private and public health and decency demand that some provision 
be made, even though it is not a final method. It is true that, when we 
palliate an evil condition, quite frequently we make it a little more toler- 
able, and consequently perpetuate its existence. This is not the vital 
side, however, when the apparent palliative measure has another im- 
portant phase of influence. The ultimate effective demand for good 
housing, including proper bathing and washing facilities, is going to 
come from the people who are now poorly housed. Any measure which 
conserves and strengthens the health and general welfare of these 
people is bound to be a positive force for good ; it is bound to be a con- 
structive influence. Far more important than this, however, is the 
educational value of the measure. The pubHc wash house, like the 
public bath, finds its chief justification in the fact that it gives to the 
people an opportunity to learn how to be clean and makes it possible for 
them to appreciate the value to health and decency of being physically 
clean. Physical cleanliness enhances our moral and spiritual tone. 
The people will recognize more acutely their housing and municipal 
defects and will demand even more energetically than at present that 
equipment for clean bodies and clean clothes, whether witlun or outside 
the home, which they will have learned to use and value and the impor- 
tance of which, for the preservation of health and the maintenance of 
decency, they will have been educated to appreciate. 



1916] STANDARDIZATION OF TEMPERATURES FOR COOKING 429 

STANDARDIZATION OF TEMPERATURES FOR COOKING 
BATTERS AND DOUGHS 

LOUISE STANLEY AND MAY WALLACE 
Department of Home Economics, University of Missouri 

1. Optimum Temperatures for Cooking Biscuit 

This is the first of a series of experiments on the standardization of 
temperatures for cooking various batters and doughs. The aim of the 
experiment recorded below is to determine the possible range of tem- 
peratures within which biscuit of good grade could be obtained. 

In all of the experiments performed the composition of the biscuit was 
carefully controlled. In each case there was recorded the temperature 
of baking, the weight of the raw dough, the weight of the biscuit after 
baking, the percentage loss in the weight, the time required for baking, 
and in several cases the temperature reached by the interior of the 
biscuit. 

In the first series of experiments the temperatures were recorded by 
means of a standard Centigrade thermometer. This indicated very 
exactly the oven temperature but it was somewhat difficult to introduce 
it into the biscuit in such a way as to avoid error, due to the fact that 
the thermometer would sometimes pierce the biscuit and take the tem- 
perature of the pan. On this account the temperature of the interior 
of the biscuit had to be checked up by using a differential thermometer 
according to the plan explained in the bulletin on The Economics of 
Electric Cooking by P. W. Gumaer.^ The following quotation describes 
briefly his method. 

"The temperature of the ovens was measured by means of copper- 
constantan thermo-couples with which an accuracy of 0.1 degree is 
obtainable when used below 360°C. (680° F.). A Siemens-Halske indi- 
cating galvanometer and a Bristol recording galvanometer were used 
to determine the e.m.f. of the thermo-couples. The recording gal- 
vanometer traced a curve by intermittent contact on a circular smoked 
chart. Both the indicating and the recording galvanometer were cali- 
brated for the copper-constantan thermo-couples by means of mercury 
thermometers which had been certified by the Bureau of Standards. 
The thermo-couple and the thermometer were immersed in an oil bath 
which was slowly heated and carefully stirred. Simultaneous readings 

' P. W. Gumaer. The Economics of Electric Cooking, Univ. of Mo. Bull., Vol. 16, No. 27. 



430 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[August 



were taken of the galvanometer and the thermometer. The j&gure below 
shows a diagram of the connections used for the galvanometers and 
thermo-couples. 

"In the oven the wires of the thermo-couple were enclosed in a glass 
tube and separated by mica. Outside the oven they were enclosed in 

Connections of thermo-couples and galvanometers 

Coppar VVIro. \ /Con«tantan Wire. 




Recording Indicai'ing Cold Juncfions. 

Galvanometer. Galvanomo+ar 



Ho) J u ncf Ions 



rubber tubing. The cold junction was kept at 0°C. (32° F.) by immer- 
sion in ice water. 

"In oven No. 1 an extra thermo-couple was inserted for measuring the 
internal temperature of the food. The wires entered the oven through 
two glass bushings and were left bare except for a 3-inch glass tube 
at the end which was inserted in the food. The wires were long enough 
so that after the food was cooked it could be placed on a shelf just out- 
side the oven to cool without removing the thermo-couple from the 
food. In order that the wires would not short circuit either on them- 
selves or on the lining of the oven all the slack was pulled outside the 
oven." 

The work was done in three ovens, two gas and one electric. One of 
the gas ranges was of the ordinary type in which the oven was thor- 
oughly ventilated. The second was the fijeless cooker type. The 
electric oven was heavily insulated and so was comparable to the fiieiess 
cooker gas oven. Since these three ovens gave different results, each 
series of biscuit was run in two different ovens, using the ordinary gas 
oven each time for comparison. Table 1 gives the length of time 
necessary to cook biscuit in the two types of gas ovens. 

It would seem from this table that in the firelcss cooker gas oven the 
biscuit cooked more quickly. On further examination it was found 
that the crust became overcooked very rai)idly but the crumb of the 
biscuits did not seem to be as well done as those of the t'lrst series. 



I 



1916] 



STA>roARDIZATION OF TEirPERATURES FOR COOKING 



431 



TABLE I 
A. Quick meal gas range series 



WZICHT DOUGH 



irami 

190.1 
190 9 
192.2 



WEIGHT COOKED 
PRODUCr 



trams 
148.1 
148.3 
140.8 



FEB CENT LOSS Ot 
WEIGHT 



22.09 
22.31 
26.74 



TIME or BAKING 



15 

20 
25 



TEUPERATUKK 



de trees C. 

250 
225 
200 



B. Fireless cooker gas range series 


191.2 


155.0 


18.92 


10 


250 


189.5 


148.8 


21.47 


12 


225 


192.9 


142.7 


26.02 


20 


200 



Since the difTerence in water loss was so great at the dilTercnt temper- 
atures it was decided best to investigate the whole range of tempera- 
tures in order to find the limits. Before doing this an experiment was 
planned to show whether the evaporation of water takes place to a 
greater extent before or after the biscuit reach the maximum temper- 
ature. Five experiments were carried out in each oven. The results 
are given in table 2. 

These results would indicate that the greater per cent of moisture 
was lost by the time the inside of the food material reached the maxi- 
mum temperature. Since it is desirable to retain as much of the moisture 

TABLE 2 
.4. Fireless cooker gas range seriis 



WEIGHT DOUGH 


WEIGHT COOKED 
PRODUCT 


PER CENT LOSS 


TIME 


INSIDE 
TEMPERATURE 


OVEN 
TEMPERATURE 


trams 


grams 




mix. 


degrees C. 


detrees C. 


191.5 


185.9 


2.91 


3 


80 


250 


191.0 


173.5 


9.16 


6 


96 


250 


190.4 


166.1 


12.71 


9 


100 


250 


194 5 


163.0 


16.19 


12 


100 


250 


191.1 


159.1 


17.09 


15 


100 


250 





B 


. Quick meal gas range series 






191.9 


185.4 


3.33 


3 


65 


250 


192.9 


178.4 


7.51 


6 


92 


250 


190.0 


170.2 


10.42 


9 


98.5 


250 


190.9 


163.6 


14.30 


12 


98.5 


250 


192.1 


153.1 


20.30 


15 


100.0 


250 



432 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[August 



as possible, the more quickly the biscuit can be brought to this tempera- 
ture, the better the results will be. 

In the table below, table 3, are recorded the water losses for over 50 
sets of biscuit. In order to secure exactly the same proportions for 
all of these, sufficient dry ingredients for the series of experiments were 
sifted together and the necessary fat for the entire amount added. This 
was thoroughly mixed. For each part of the experiment the same 
amount (127.5 grams) of dry ingredients was carefully weighed out, and 
the desired amount of water was added. The thickness of the biscuit 
was kept uniform by rolling them out between two strips of hard wood 
which were fastened to the baking board. The same biscuit cutter was 
used throughout the set of experiments to insure uniform size. Tables 
3, 4, and 5 give the results of these experiments. 

TABLE 3 
Quick meal gas range series 



WEIGHT 
BEFORE 
BAKING 


WEIGHT AFTER 
BAKING 


PER CENT LOSS 


TIMZ OF 
BAKING 


OVEN 
TEMPERATURE 


INSIDE 
TEMPERATURE 


CAS USED 


grams 


grams 




min. 


degreci C. 


degrees C. 


cu./t. 


196.6 


158.0 


19.63 


15 


250 


100 


7.0 


195.0 


156.5 


19.74 


15 


250 


100 


7.0 


184.0 


149.0 


19.23 


15 


250 


100 


7.5 


195.9 


148.5 


24.19 


20 


240 


100 


9.5 


196.2 


148.2 


24. 4S 


20 


240 


100 


10.0 


194.4 


151.0 


22.32 


20 


240 


100 


10.0 


189.4 


144.4 


23.7 


23 


230 


100 


8.5 


192.9 


148.1 


24.26 


23 


230 


100 


10.0 


190.7 


143.4 


24.80 


23 


230 


100 


10.0 


196.9 


149.5 


24.07 


26 


220 


100 


8.5 


191.0 


144.5 


24.39 


26 


220 


100 


9.0 


190.0 


140.5 


26.04 


26 


220 


100 


6.0 


197.3 


148.5 


24.73 


30 


210 


100 


10.0 


197.2 


148.2 


24.89 


30 


210 


100 


10.0 


195.8 


147.3 


24.76 


30 


210 


100 


10.0 


198.5 


143.0 


27.93 


35 


200 


100 


12. C» 


194.5 


142.0 


27.04 


35 


200 


100 


11.5 


192.2 


140.8 


26.74 


35 


200 


100 


12.5 


199.2 


142.5 


28.46 


40 


190 


100 


12.0 


197.7 


140.0 


29.08 


40 


190 


100 


12.0 


190.8 


137.0 


28.19 


40 


190 


100 


12.0 


191.2 


129.2 


32.42 


45 


180 


100 


14.5 


191.6 


132.5 


30.80 


45 


180 


100 


15.0 


186.5 


130.9 


31.25 


45 


180 


100 


15.0 


193.4 


130 


31.25 


50 


170 


100 


15.0 


190.8 


130.1 


31.79 


50 


170 


100 


15.0 


193.8 


132.8 


31.47 


50 


170 


100 


15.0 



1916] 



STANDARDIZATION OF TEMPERATURES FOR COOKING 



433 



TABLE 4 
Firelcss cooker gas range series 



WUCHT BZrOEX 


WEIGHT AnZR 


PER CENT LOSS 


TiifK or 


msiBE 


OVEN 


BAKING 


BAKIMO 




BAKING 


TZMPERATURZ 


TEUFEKATUKE 


trams 


trams 




mi'n. 


degrefs C. 


dttrcts C. 


193.5 


140.1 


27.56 


18 


100 


250 


192.4 


142.9 


25.66 


18 


100 


250 


192.1 


142.7 


25.73 


18 


100 


250 


194.0 


140.4 


27.67 


23 


100 


240 


192.5 


140.8 


26.85 


23 


100 


240 


191.6 


138.0 


27.97 


23 


100 


240 


193.4 


133.4 


31.01 


28 


100 


230 


192.6 


132.9 


31.00 


28 


100 


230 


190.6 


130.4 


31.58 


28 


100 


230 


191.2 


131.4 


31.30 


33 


100 


220 


191.2 


131.8 


31.31 


33 


100 


220 


191.7 


130.7 


31.71 


33 


100 


220 


191.2 


130.9 


31.53 


38 


100 


210 


191.5 


131.0 


31.61 


38 


100 


210 


190.7 


130.6 


31.55 


38 


100 


210 


193.1 


131.4 


31.96 


43 


100 


200 


189.8 


129.4 


31.85 


43 


100 


200 


192.1 


130.9 


31.85 


43 


100 


200 


191.2 


129.7 


32.15 


48 


100 


190 


187.6 


130.9 


30.22 


48 


100 


190 


192.0 


130.5 


32.03 


48 


10 


190 


186.9 


132.5 


29.10 


53 


100 


180 


188.1 


126.4 


32.80 


53 


100 


180 


190.2 


129.0. 


32.17 


53 


100 


180 


192.1 


129.1 


32.81 


58 


100 


170 


190.5 


128.4 


32.60 


58 


100 


170 



TABLE 5 
A. Average of series in quick meal range 



PER CENT WATER 
PRESENT 


AVERAGE WEIGHT 
DOOCH 


AVERAGE 
WEIGHT BIS- 
CUIT 


AVERAGE PER 

CENT LOSS 

WATER 


TIME OF 
BAKING 


OVEN 
TEMPERATURE 




grams 


trams 




mitt. 


detrees C. 


34.10 


195.8 


157.2 


19.68 


15 


250 


34.10 


196.0 


148.3 


23.66 


20 


240 


34.10 


193.0 


145.9 


24.41 


23 


230 


34.10 


193.9 


147.0 


24.82 


26 


220 


34.10 


196.7 


148.0 


24.79 


30 


210 


34.10 


196.5 


142.5 


27.48 


35 


200 


34.10 


195.9 


139.7 


28.57 


40 


190 


34.10 


189.0 


131.7 


30.03 


45 


180 


34.10 


192.6 


131.9 


31.50 


50 


170 



434 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 

TABLE S— Continued 
B. Average of series in fireless cooker range 



[August 



PER CE^T WATER 
PRESENT 


AVERAGE WEIGHT 
DOUGH 


AVERAGE 
WEIGHT BIS- 
CUIT 


AVERAGE PER 

CENT LOSS 

WATER 


TIMEO/ 
BAKING 


OVIN 
TEMPERATURE 




grams 


grams 




min. 


Degree C. 


34.4 


192.3 


142.8 


25.69 


18 


250 


34.4 


192.8 


139.2 


27.82 


23 


240 


34.4 


193.0 


133.1 


31.00 


28 


230 


34.4 


191.6 


131.3 


31.44 


Zi 


220 


34.4 


190.6 


129.8 


31.92 


38 


210 


34.4 


192.1 


130.7 


31.95 


43 


200 


34.4 


191.6 


130.1 


32.19 


48 


190 


34.4 


189.1 


127.7 


32.48 


53 


ISO 


34.4 


191.3 


128.6 


32.70 


58 


170 



These experiments show very conclusively that the best range of 
temperature for the ordinary gas range, working from the standpoint 
of the water loss, is between 210°C. and 250°C. In order to check up 
on the lightness of these biscuit, the following experiment was planned. 
A definite mixture was prepared as before but mixed with a little less 
water than in the preceding experiment in order to lessen the loss in 
mixing. One-half cup of the mixture was used in each series of biscuit. 
The specific volume of these biscuits was determined by a slight modi- 
fication of the method suggested by H. L. Jackson. ^ 

The method as used in our experiments was substantially as follows: 
A container whose volume in cubic centimeters had been accurately 
determined by filling with water, was thoroughly dried and then filled 
to overflowing with the millet seed, which had been carefully sifted. 
The excess of seed was leveled off with a long spatula. Great care was 
taken to prevent packing down of the seed in this process, since it had 
been determined by experiment that there was a large possibility of error 
entering into results from this source. The weight of the quantity of 
seed which just filled the container was determined. This determina- 
tion of volume and weight was repeated several times and the average 
of results taken. 

The volume of 1 gram of the seed was calculated by dividing the 
volume of the container by the average weight in grams of the amount 
of seed necessary to exactly fill the container. This volume was found 
to be 1.3 cc. 

The weighed portion of food whose extensity was to be measured was 

' II. L. Jack.wn, Jour. Ind. and Eng. Chcm,, Dec., 1914. 



1916] 



STANDARDIZATION OF TEMPERATURES FOR COOKING 



435 



placed in the container of known volume. Enough of the measured 
volume of seed to fill the container to overflowing was poured in around 
and above the food specimen and the excess leveled olT with the spatula 
with care to prevent packing down the seed. The portion of seed left 
over after the container was filled was carefully weighed. The volume 
of this seed displaced by the object to be measured was calculated and 
taken as equivalent to the volume of the object. The specific volume, 
or extensity, of the food was calculated by dividing the total volume in 
cubic centimeters of the food by its weight in grams. 

The error in results was found to be small, as indicated by variations 
in successive trials, where no trouble was occasioned by the seed adher- 
ing to the food. 

The results are given in table 6. 









TABLE 6 






WKICHT 
DODCB 


WEIGHT 
COOKED 
PRODUCT 


PER CENT LOSS 


PER CENT WATER 
INCORPORATED 


TUIE 


OVEN 
TEMPERATURE 


PER CENT TOTAL 

MOISTURE 

LOST 


trams 

71.7 
74.2 
73.4 
77.2 
73.7 
73.6 


trams 

57.4 
58.2 
56.6 
59.0 
56.3 
53.1 


19.94 
21.56 
22.89 
23.57 
23.60 
27.30 


27.89 
26.95 
27.23 
25.90 
27.13 
27.17 


min. 

17 
20 
23 
26 
30 
35 


de trees C. 

250 
240 
230 
220 
210 
200 


71.49 
80.00 
84.03 
91.00 
96.00 
100.00 


WEIGHT 

SEED 

DISPLACED 


VOLUlfE 

SEED 

DISPLACED 


SPECIFIC VOL- 
UME- 


CHARACTER OP PRODUCT 


OVEV 
TEMPERATURE 


grams 

96.0 


CC. 

124.8 
133.3 
128.7 
129.3 
119.6 
109.2 


2.17 

2.29 
2.27 
2.19 
2.12 
2.05 


Done hard, crust very bro\ 
Done not hard — fmcw\ hrow 


vn 


degrees C. 
250 


100.0 


n 


240 


99.0 


Much as abo 
Much as abo 
Done hard, c 
Very dry, cru 


ve 




230 


99 5 


ve 


220 


92.0 
84.0 


rust not good brown 

St hard and pale brown — 


210 



These experiments would indicate that from 240°C. to 220''C. is the 
most favorable range of temperature for the proper standard of light- 
ness of biscuit. At 250°C. although the average of water loss is less, 
we find that the specific volume was a little less than it was at 240°C. 
which was probably due to the fact that the crust was formed before 
the biscuit had risen sufficiently. Below 220°C. the product was not 
very attractive in appearance and tasted dry. At 200°C. 100 per cent 
of the moisture incorporated had been lost. The specific volume was 



436 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[August 



at the maximum at 240°C. and 230°C. and the product was most attrac- 
tive when baked at this temperature. 

It seemed desirable to find out whether adequate addition of water 
would make results as desirable at 200^C. as at a higher temperature. 
The table shows that 71.49 per cent of the moisture incorporated had 
been lost in baking at 250°C. This per cent of the 20 grams incorpo- 
rated would be 14.29 grams. The total amount, 20 grams, minus 
14.29 grams leaves 5,71 grams of water retained with half a cup of flour 
at 250°C. At 200°C. 100 per cent of the moisture incorporated had 
been lost. Six grams of water were added in a second experiment at 
200°C., making a total of 26 grams of water incorporated. The bis- 
cuits were baked at this temperature for 35 minutes as before. The 
figures obtained were: 



WZICHT DOUGH 


WEIGHT COOKED 
PEODDCT 


FEE CENT LOSS 


PER CENT WATER 
INCORPOKATED 


PER CENT TOTAL 
UOISTCRE LOST 


grams 

75.5 


grams 

55.7 


26.22 


34.43 


76.15 



Calculation shows that 6.2 grams of moisture were retained in this 
experiment as against 5.71 grams at 250°C. The product obtained in 
this way was equally as moist to taste as the one obtained at the higher 
temperature. The crust was hard, but this could be remedied for prac- 
tical purposes by the addition of fat to the outside of the crust. The 
color was not so good at the lower temperature, however, and a dough 
with this percentage of moisture is difiicult to handle. 

There is so Httle data on the decomposition of fat at definite tempera- 
ture that it seemed advisable to find out whether in biscuits cooked at 
the higher temperatures the fat was decomposed to any extent. A 
comparison was made of the iodine absorption number, the saponifica- 
tion number, and the volatile fatty acid number, in the fat extracted 
from the uncooked lard and flour mixture and from the cooked prod'i* t. 
These experiments will be published in detail later. It is enough to 
say here that the difTercnce between the numbers obtained from the 
uncooked fat in the mixture and the cooked product lies within the 
limits of experimental error. There was no indication of any trace 
of oxidized acids as indicated by a petroleum ether test. 

All of this work on temperatures was checked up by the use of the 
electro thermocouple. In thi.s the galvanometer was connected with 
two thermocouples, one in the oven and one in the biscuit under cxami- 



1916] 



STANDARDIZATION OF TEMPERATURES FOR COOKING 



437 



nation. The galvanometer could be switched into the circuit with either, 
interchangeably. 

The first work with this was the determination of the length of time 
necessary to maintain the inside of the biscuits at 100°C. in order to 
have the product become thoroughly done. Table 7 gives the results 
of this work. 

A comparison of the results obtained in the Hot Point Electric oven 
and in the Quick Meal Gas Range oven through the same range of 
temperature was made. Table 8, A and B, show the lengths of time 
needed for cooking and the moisture losses in the two stoves. 

TABLE 7 

After 2 minutes pasty 

After 5 minutes pasty 

After 8 minutes av'crage standard of donencss 

After 10 minutes slightly dry 

TABLE 8 
A . Quick meal gas range series 



I W-EIOHT DOUGH 


WEIGHT COOKED 
PHODDCT 


PER CENT 
LOSS 


OVEN 
TEMPERATURE 


TIME NEEDED 

TO 
REACH 100°C. 


TOTAL TIME 


trams 


grams 




degrus C. 


min. 


min. 


194.5 


157.0 


19.3 


250 


7 


15 


193.7 


149.6 


22.8 


240 


11 


19 


191.8 


145.0 


24.4 


230 


16 


24 


195.8 


147.3 


24.8 


220 


19 


27 


194.9 


146.2 


25.0 


210 


23 


31 


195.1 


142.7 . 


26.9 


200 


27 


35 



B. Electric hot point oven scries 



192.7 


160.8 


16.6 


250 


6 


14 


193.1 


158.0 


18.2 


240 


10 


18 


194.2 


151.3 


22.1 


230 


14 


22 


195.3 


150.4 


23.0 


220 


17 


25 


192.9 


148.2 


23.2 


210 


21 


29 


191.0 


143.9 


24.7 


200 


25 


35 



CONCLUSIONS FROM WORK ON BISCUIT 

The moisture losses at the different temperatures and the variations 
in specitic volume at these temperatures seem to make the following 
conclusions apparent: 

1 . That the moisture loss increases in all of the ovens as the tempera- 
ture employed becomes lower and the time necessary for baking conse- 
quently longer. 



438 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

2. That the most favorable temperature range for biscuit is from 
240°C. to 210°C. inclusive, the moisture losses being fairly uniform 
through this range, the character of the crust good, and the specific vol- 
ume at the maximum. Above 240°C. the specific volume is a little less, 
due probably to the crust being formed before the biscuit had risen to 
the maximum. Below 210°C. the specific volume again decreases 
through loss of moisture, the crust becomes unattractive, and the inte- 
rior of the biscuit very dry. 

3. That the inside temperature at any oven temperature used is 
sufficient to cook the starch present, 100°C. being reached in every 
case before the biscuit is done. 

4. That it is possible to vary the proportions of moisture to adapt 
a dough to baking at a lower temperature so that the product is satis- 
factory from the standpoint of moisture content, but that the resulting 
dough is hard to handle and not so attractive in appearance as the 
material baked at the higher temperatures. 



WAGE WORTH OF SCHOOL TRAINING^ 

MARY SCHENCK WOOLMAN 

The heads of well kno%vn trade schools, leaders in the Trade Union movement, and a 
group of makers of statistics have been consulted in the preparation of this review. 

This book is the result of an anal}lical study of 600 women, involving 
the seeing of 20,000 girls at work, and conferring with foremen, fore- 
women, and managers. Textile factories were selected for the field of 
investigation covering the manufacture of fibers into fabrics, the knit- 
ting of them into hosiery, the construction of materials into gloves, cor- 
sets, curtains and garments, and laundry work. The study was made 
in fulfilment of requirements for the degree of Ph.D. at Teachers College. 

The author was well equipped for the task, ha\-ing had many years of 
experience as a teacher of girls and having held large executive positions 
in technical schools for girls and women. Careful research and earnest 
thought are evident throughout the book and keen perception of the 
need of better elementary education. The personal conUict with the 

'Wane Worth of School TraininR. By .-Xnna Charlotte Hedges. New York: Teachers 
College, Columbia University, 1915, pp. 173. S2.00. 



1916] WAGE WORTH OF SCHOOL TRAINING 439 

problem gives a live interest which will be especially helpful to those 
who know Httle of the preparation of workers for their occupations; 
the conditions under which women work and the wages they receive. 
It will be well, however, for such readers to hesitate to accept the many 
positive statements made until they have consulted other workers 
who are closely in touch with these same problems but whose experience 
has brought them to other conclusions. The book would have been 
more useful and complete, it would seem, if the opinions of those en- 
gaged in trade or \'ocational schools and of the leaders in the trade 
union league could have been cited, on account of their long study and 
observation of skilled and unskilled workers, and for the reason that 
the results of the follow-up systems of the trade schools are available. 

The plan of the investigation was to find the type of girl who suc- 
ceeds, the technique of operations by which she earns her living and 
the conditions under which she works. Questionnaires and personal 
interviews gave a basis for statistics from which deductions were made. 
The conclusions relate to the need for improvements in education in 
the regular school, the advisabihty of cooperation between the school 
and industry, and the wisdom of training the majority of workers 
in the factory itself. The conclusions as stated briefly in the preface 
are satisfactorily presented. 

The author states that a result of her inquiry has been "to turn 
her from her prior position, as an advocate of trade training for girls 
whose schooling must be Limited to the grammar school, to the vie\\T3oint 
of more and better general education for all grammar school girls, 
irrespective of their careers beyond the elementary school." In her 
advocacy of the elementary school as a better preparation than the 
trade school for working in textile industries (including industries such 
as the electric operating garment trades), she has in mind and describes 
an ideal education not now to be found in the usual public school. Un- 
doubtedly if the elementary schools were of this character or likely soon 
to become so, and if the children could be kept in attendance until 
graduation there would be little need for trade or vocational schools of 
the elementary tj'pe, as they were organized largely to make up for the 
defects of the elementary school. 

It is not probable in this generation that the better class of elementary 
education \^ill be found except perhaps in a few aspiring places. The 
impossibility at the present time of keeping the majority of children 
in the schools makes necessary the organization of trade or vocational 
training that these crude young workers may have a chance in life. 



440 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

In addition the majority of girls of fourteen coming into industry have 
been found to be too young and immature to "select wisely and follow 
skilfully" any occupation even when "careful preparation" has been 
given them. They need more specific training before the trade is a 
good place for them. The elementary school can guide them, but pre- 
paring them at this early age for industrial success is a more difficult 
matter. The trade school has proved to be a significant step for them 
toward better wage earning abilit}'— the young worker is too apt to have 
many slack seasons and this time has been well utilized in the classes 
of the trade schools. 

It is true that the factory itself should be the ideal place to train 
young workers, but, as yet, the worker-teacher seldom understands 
how to benefit each pupil by her teaching beyond a mere added skill 
at a machine. She should so train these girls that they would be able 
to fit into other similar trades by giving them a foundation of knowledge 
of tlie trade and facility in taking up new problems and not mere speed- 
ing on one machine. It is difficult for a worker to consider the develop- 
ment of the girl as more important than the rapid completion of the 
product. The time will come undoubtedly when the bridge between 
the skilled worker and the skilled teacher will be crossed, but, at present, 
the factories are not well equipped for the education of young workers. 
The trade unionist is alarmed at such short methods of training and 
feels the benefit attained is for the employer rather than for the girl — 
her small added wage is not all that is required to give her the chance 
in life she should have. 

In a short review it is impossible to indicate the many points where 
there is room for opposing views. The book is full of positive state- 
ments and deductions which are at variance with the findings of many 
of those who are giving their lives to vocational education and of 
those interested in giving "a chance" to the working girl, and of makers 
of statistics. "Industry is so specialized today, and promises to be 
much more so in the future, that preparation for any operative 
line seems time and money wasted" is asserted without the accom- 
panying fact that the trained worker is tending away from specializa- 
tion. "Trade schools belong to the past." "The best trade schools 
can not approach factory conditions," and "Trade schools arc expen- 
sive" are statements which have strong contradictory arguments. 

There seems no evidence that the writer consulted leaders in trade 
school work or trade unionists for their points of view and yet they 
are in more close contact with the problems of the wage worth of 
school training than are those who were consulted to obtain statistics. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

THE BUSINESS OF HOMEMAKING' 

MRS. HARVEY M. HICKOK 

When vocational training began to be emphasized in the schools it 
was inevitable that the business or industry of homemaking should 
be examined for teaching content. Homemaking occupies the time 
and energy of the majority of women, its success or failure has a vital 
connection with the welfare of us all, and there is increasing discontent 
with inefficiency. No longer is the home an independent unit where 
the family may do as it chooses; rather it is a demonstration that the 
sum total of all the family activities, the final resultant of the family 
life, is an acceptable share in the larger community life. 

Modern industrialism has taken most of the gainful productive proc- 
esses from the family group, forcing the man partner in the family 
out of the home to gain an income, depriving the w^oman partner of 
her former share in these processes, and leaving her a work in the home 
which has to do with the consumption of goods, a work formerly shared 
by the man. 

It is important to note how this separation of the two partners has 
afifected the home life. The loss to both man and woman of the com- 
panionship and interested assistance of the other during the long hours 
of productive labor is not made up by a companionship during those 
periods given over mostly to recuperation. If division of production 
and consumption is to remain, and both the partners of the home can- 
not equally participate as producers of income and directors of consump- 
tion, it is essential to the continued satisfaction in the partnership that 
this mutuality of functioning be retained as far as the free time of the 
father partner will permit. 

American conditions are demanding expert service as relates to the 
consumption of economic goods. American people have become ex- 
pert as producers of incomes, but our increasing population and the 

•Presented at the annual meeting of the National Society for the Promotion of Indus- 
trial Education, Minneapolis, Januarj', 1916. 

441 



442 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

lessening of natural resources, even before the enormous waste of the 
great European war, have focussed serious attention on the use we make 
of the goods produced. We are beginning to make Fome progress in 
the economy of spending. The average American family must succeed 
in demonstrating its family right to purchase goods as it pleases, to 
direct its own consumption, or it may wake up to find its members in- 
volved in a species of slavery where the same competent brains of the 
successful employer, now deciding what rewards are due the workers 
in production, will also decide how and for what these workers may 
spend their earnings. Since the father must go outside the family to 
produce the goods to consume, or their equivalent called income, the 
mother, left in the home, must adjust the family consumption to modern 
conditions, if the family is to have a safe solvent basis on which to build 
its family life. 

The woman must be trained for her business. It is no more possible 
for a woman to manage a household instinctively than for a man to 
succeed in a business of which he knows nothing. Is there a more im- 
portant subject before the educational world in America today than the 
tj'pe of education necessary to produce the well trained home manager 
or expert on the consumption of goods? Where this preparation is 
not utilized in the position of home manager of the smaller family unit, 
an extension or specialization of some part of her training will be found 
a most acceptable community service and subject her the least to open 
competition with men now engaged in the usual productive activities. 

Can the functions of the woman partner, the comptroller of consump- 
tion, be so formulated as to be a basis of a definite teaching program 
to fit women for the business of home making, either in the typical 
family of father, mother, and children, or in some form of an "associated 
group?" The accompanying diagram attempts to give these functions 
in graphic form. No analysis of the work of the father as producer 
of income is intended. The dotted lines suggest what function! he 
can best share, considering the time and energy left by his outside work. 
The analysis also presupposes a more comprehensive definition of sol- 
vency than that usually understood in the business world. 

"Family solvency is that condition arising from a wise adjustment 
of all the family resources where the family is able to meet all its im- 
mediate obligations, and in addition is conserving enough capital to 
warrant a reasonable assurance that future obligations will be met," 
and to "insure a continuity of the best in race and family heritage." 



19161 



THE BUSINESS OF HOMEMAKING 



443 












^1 



— I 



o"3 



't* 



• V." 


















<i/oa 






a - 



V 3/ i»/i/0 






Su/ruDi/y ' 



r Suii/siujnj 















444 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

"Family resources include not only the income from outside sources, 
but also all services and dilTerences in value which any member may 
add to raw material before it is acceptable for family consumption; 
and also all those services and added values contributed by any member 
to the community group. Those families, none of whose members 
assist in the upbuilding of the community life, beyond the securing of 
their own safety and comlort, are not meeting all their immediate ob- 
ligations, and are allowing other families to pay their bills to that extent." 

There are seven main functions to be executed by the woman part- 
ner in the home. First, she must be a good purchasing agent. She 
must understand and remember shifting market conditions, the nutri- 
tive values and costs of pure food stuffs, the wearing, sanitary, and 
aesthetic values and costs of fabrics, furniture, utensils, and housing. 
The family needs are so diversified that expert knowledge of many 
different goods — milk and shoes, furniture and meat, underwear and 
fuel, is demanded of the woman home purchasing agent. She must 
know exactly how much she can spend and for what and when it should 
be spent. When more than the merely phvsical demands of the family 
can be afforded, a distributed system, where each kind of purchase has 
its own allotment of the total income, will be found to yield the most 
data for satisfactory comparisons. A tentative budget may be drawn 
up, combining the past demands of that particular family and the 
best practice found workable in other similar families. After a con- 
scientious adherence to this budget for a year, or through the seasonal 
changes, a more permanent budget may be worked for that family. 

Definite training in purchasing is an essential for the woman director 
of consumption. When she fails as purchasing agent, extraordinary 
efficiency must be displayed by the father of the family or insolvency 
of the family will result. When the man partner attempts to supply 
this deficiency, either by trying to earn more than he normally can 
produce or by being the purchasing agent himself, it may result in i"^ing 
just that amount of energy needed to turn the scale in his business 
affairs. 

Second, the mother partner must be a producer of finished goods from 
raw materials. The preparation of foods from food stuffs, of clothing and 
furnishings from fabrics, the numberless services connected with an 
acceptable arrangement of these finished products for consumption, 
and the cleansing processes demanded in the modern home, constitute 
most of the physical labor to be accomplished by the home partner. 



1916] THE BUSINESS OF HOMEMAKING 445 

All of the productive processes in the home are facilitated by the appli- 
cation of the principles of scientific management. There arc many 
homemakers who are "forehanded" in their work. All the dozen or 
so principles of efhciency taught by Mr. Emerson and others have been 
practiced for years by the efficient manager in the home, although she 
may not have called them "standardizing," "routing plans," "time sched- 
ules," dispatching," or "efficiency rewards." 

When one adds that it is the business of the producer of finished goods 
in the home to employ, train, superintend, and suitably reward all 
domestic labor, an additional emphasis is laid on this part of the home 
partners work. Whatever she knows of psychology and pedagogy, 
sociology and ethnology, in addition to productive processes, will find 
an extended field for application. 

The solution of the domestic labor problem is a woman's job, and, if 
it is ever to be accomplished in America, the customs and usages as to 
duties and privileges of the household worker must be standardized. 
This means a cooperation and consensus of opinion of the women em- 
ploying labor in their homes. Standardization is as important in home 
work as in any outside industry, and there is no reason why it cannot 
be accomplished by women. So far women managers have made their 
own laws and customs without regard to establishing standards. Until 
competent and intelligent women can feel some security and dignity in 
domestic service, they cannot be expected to enter it, even if the net 
income and comfort exceeds their present rewards in shop or factory. 

Third, it is the duty of the mother in the home to conserve the family 
health. The beginnings of prophylaxis or prevention of disease in- 
clude a conscientious adherence to prescribed food schedules. A knowl- 
edge of the fundamental principles of nutrition is more important than 
an exhaustive knowledge of the old time empirical formulae known as 
recipes. The close relation between dietetics and food preparation is 
indicated on the chart as well as the connection between sanitation 
and all cleansing processes. Home sanitation demands clean air, clean 
food, and clean surroundings. Neighborhood sanitation will determine 
the Umits of family neglect, but within these limits the family is re- 
sponsible for its own health. Family safety from communicable dis- 
ease demands active interest in all questions of neighborhood sanita- 
tion, especially the disposal of waste. It is important that the father 
in the family lend his interest and assistance in these outside com- 
munity problems. 



446 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

An important part of the work of the home conserver of health is 
the recording of the regular examinations made by physician and den- 
tist. Although the school is beginning to supply this service for the 
children, it is just as necessary to take physical inventories of the adult 
members of the family. 

The work of the woman as home accountant is perhaps, in America, 
the least understood and practiced of any of these functions. A family 
cannot be in a solvent condition with no definite records as to its con- 
sumption of economic goods. A system of keeping daily purchase rec- 
ords can be made simple enough to fit any condition of time or skill; 
but whatever system is used it is essential to record truthfully the pur- 
chases made. The price of a matinee ticket or the extravagance of a 
useless article of personal adornment must not appear to the eyes of the 
trusting man partner as an extra bill for meat or sugar. Neither can 
the man retain the confidence of the woman partner if he makes false 
expense returns against the family income. Such transactions are as 
dishonest under the family roof as in any more closely watched business 
house. 

It is necessary for the complete safety of the family that monthly 
summaries and yearly inventories, balance sheets and budgets, be worked 
out and agreed upon by both partners. All questions of the standards 
of the family Ufe must be adjusted to the earning capacity of both family 
partners if these material considerations are not to overshadow con- 
tinually other phases of the family hfe. Both partners should fully 
understand and agree upon the conditions governing all savings, in- 
surance, properties, or other investments affecting family welfare. 

There is no question relating to home making which is attracting 
more attention in America than that of home finance. What other 
nations have done, our suddenly realized need for our own savings, and 
the efforts made by banks and other financial institutions, have induced 
a nation-wide campaign for the cultivation of thrift. The year j*>16 
marks the 100th anniversary of the first Savings Bank in the United 
States. There is an opportunity for our banks to interest themselves 
more definitely in home finance, as only they have the machinery to 
cultivate certain capacities of the home accountant. 

The fifth function indicated is that of regulator of social activities. 
One of the needs in American home life today is a centralized authority 
which has the power to regulate tlie family behavior as regards social 
affairs. Although a large share of the details of all plans for recrration 
must fall on the mother partner, it is practically impossible for her 



1916] THE BUSINESS OF HOMEMAKING 447 

to succeed without the sympathetic support and assistance of the father 
who is familiar with the world of men. 

The economic waste of over amusement appears, not only in the ex- 
cessive proportion of the income claimed by amusements, but also in 
the waste of time and strength badly needed for important things. 
A definite amusement program for the family would correlate the ne- 
cessity for recreation, the conservation of time and health, and the 
proper budget allotment. Simple pleasures, open air excursions, infor- 
mational trips to many places of interest can be had for the cost of car- 
fare. A simple recreation schedule, alive and interesting, may be pro- 
ductive of invaluable family habits which so largely determine that 
complex thing we call social standing. 

One of the most satisfying functions of the mother manager is the 
teaching of her children. The mother teacher has a wealth of the 
most interesting material and the advantage of the first six years in 
the child's life. It is important that definite working plans be made 
for the study and play periods. Better direction of the child's home 
activities would make more frequent the really natural attainments 
now so often called exceptional and precocious. Both parents are re- 
sponsible for a more complete union of the child's activities in the 
home with those of the church, school, or recreation center. 

Emphasis should be laid on training the ideality of childhood. The 
child who has had an opportunity to live in an imaginative world at 
the time when he was acquiring many of the facts of a material exist- 
ence and has learned to idealise common things, has an ability to soften 
the sterner realities of life. Thought habits about fairies and other 
good invisible forces may also lead to a basic comprehension for re- 
ligious faith. Also whatever parents desire their children to preserve 
of family traditions of race and heritage must be taught as a supple- 
mentary education to that given in church, school, or civic center. 

Finally, the woman partner is almost wholly responsible for creating 
the home atmosphere, that intangible resultant of the physical, mental, 
and moral states, that pulling together of all the family effort to reach 
the proper home spirit. This crowning success of the woman's effort 
must have the foundation of successful performance, either personally 
or directed, of all the other functions. 

The thing which lives the longest in the memories of the succeeding 
generation is the home atmosphere, a subtle pervading influence, giving 
confidence and sympathy for living and work, reacting on family am- 
bition and loyalty, and is the outward expression of family happiness. 



448 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

READY-MADE AND HOMEMADE CLOTHING 

CHARLOTTE GIBBS BAKER 

The purpose of this article is to give some added discussion of the 
relative values, and some added data on the comparative costs of ready 
made and homemade garments. Clothing made by dressmaker, tailor, 
or seamstress will not be discussed. 

In considering economy in clothing one must consider cost of material, 
time required for making, satisfaction obtained from wearing the gar- 
ment, and the length of life of the same. In comparing the cost of the 
ready-made garment with the homemade too often the cost of the 
material alone is compared with the cost of the garment purchased. 
Although it is difficult for the woman at home to put an actual money 
value on her time, she may by careful study determine which things it 
is most economical to do herself and which to hire done for her. Sew- 
ing done at the expense of nerves when one is worn out with the care of 
children, may in the end prove extravagant. On the other hand if 
one sews easily and quickly, it may be economy to hire a dish washer 
and make one's own best dresses. 

While the garment carefully made at home may have a daintier and 
better finish it often has not the style of the one ready made. Often 
the homemade dress does not turn out quite as was expected while 
with the ready-made the finished product may be examined before 
purchasing. On the other hand, it may not be possible to fmd in the 
ready-made dress just the material and design suitable for certain 
demands; or one may not have a figure suited to the stock designs on 
the market. Again, although the standard of ready-made clothing 
has improved in the last few years, there is often much to be desired in 
workmanship and materials. 

In the study of which this is a report, certain garments were bought 
and then duplicates, exact as far as it was possible, made. In all casc5 
the garments purchased were chosen with care to obtain the best mate- 
rials, trimmings and workmanship to be had for a moderate price. When- 
ever they could be obtained garments bearing the Consumers League 
label, guaranteeing to the makers healthful working conditions and a 
fair living wage, were bought. With one or two cxcej)tic)ns garments 
and materials were chosen from regular stock, not at bargain sales or 
from remnant counters. 

The figures given are mostly those for under garments although 



1916] READY-MADE AND HOMEMADE CLOTHING 449 

the writer has some data for dresses and waists. Only a few definite 
figures will be given, though the conclusions are drawn from many 
more. In each case the ready-made garment was purchased, then the 
amount of material required to duplicate it carefully calculated and 
chosen. Practically all the work was done by machine, as it was so 
done on the garments purchased. 

Combination drawers and corset cover $1 . 75 

Materials to duplicate, long cloth, simple embroidery insertion, and Zion 

lace, good match 1 . 86 

Time required for making 6 hours 

This garment was more elaborately trimmed than those given below. 
Any profit from making this garment would have to be in the form of 
satisfaction and increased wearing quality, and it is doubtful how much 
of either there would be. 

Combination drawers and corset cover $1 . 00 

Materials to duplicate, muslin, simple embroidery edge, and beading 90 

Time required for making 4 hours 

In this case the garment was much simpler and there was more profit 
in making. 

Combination, marked down because soiled $.75 

Materials to duplicate, long cloth and beading 70 

Time required for making 3 hours 

The material of this. garment was good; there was no trimming except 
a lace beading around neck and armholes. One's time is not w^ell paid 
in making this. 

The following group of garments shows the balance of profit a little 
more on the side of the homemade articles. 

Night gown $2.25 

Materials to duplicate, nainsook, embroidery insertion and lace edge 1 . 40 

Time required for making 5 hours 

With very little trimming the fine material required some hand work. 

Night gown $1 .00 

Material to duplicate, long cloth and scalloped tape 60 

Time for making 1 J hours 

The trimming here is almost a negligible quantity. 
From these and other figures obtained it would seem that one saves 
more money in making the plain garments of good material than in 



450 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

making the more elaborate lace trimmed ones, even when one buys good 
quality in the fancy ready-made articles. The following figures for a 
fancy waist seem to show this to be true also. 

Cost of waist $10.00 

Materials to duplicate, lace, georgette crepe, chiffon, silk, beading, buttons, 

and 50 cents for hemstitching 8 . 30 

Time required for making 17 hours 

The waist was bought early in the season from new stock, was well 
made, and pretty. Ten cents an hour is not much remuneration for 
the kind of work required to make a waist of this sort, and unless one is 
fairly well skilled there is no question that the effect of the ready-made 
waist would be better than that of the homemade. 

While figures show that, with good buying, colored wash dresses 
may be purchased for about as little as one can make them for, there 
is greater added satisfaction from homemade garments of this sort 
than from undergarments. The shrinking and fading is often serious 
in the ready-made dress, and, by careful choice of material and proper 
care, may be avoided in the homemade. It is of course possible to 
obtain high grade ready-made dresses, but one pays enough for them to 
make it profitable for the woman who sews well to make her own, unless 
her time is of greater value for something else. 

By buying carefully out of season or at remnant and bargain sales 
one may often save, both on ready-made garments and on materials. 
One should know, however, just what will be needed, and not be led 
astray by apparent bargains which will not fill one's demands. 

There are, of course, on the market many garments of very poor 
material, trimmed and over trimmed with cheap lace, so made that with 
the first washing they go to pieces. These are not considered in this 
article. For the busy woman who wants simple garments of good 
material there is little saving in making them at home. If one has 
unlimited time and wishes to spend it in putting hand work on one's 
clothes the problem is a different one, for that sort of work is expensive 
to buy. On waists and dresses it is often the touch of hand work which 
gives distinction, and a comparatively inexpensive dress may in this 
way be given exclusiveness. 

The possibilities of the market will in many cases determine how one 
shall buy, the city shopper always having the advantage over her small 
town sister. In any case, however, all considerations must be carefully 
balanced, and each must determine for herself how she shall buy. 



1916] 



THE HOMEMADE FLYTRAP 



451 



THE HOMEMADE FLYTRAP 

Entomologists of the U. S. Dept. of Agr. have made tests with a 
homemade flytrap which has proved to be the most effective device 
of the kind for catching flies at creameries, in butcher shops, in barns, 
and in and around houses. This trap also is excellent for outdoor use, 
especially near insanitary privies and other places where flies gather 
and breed. It has the advantage of being inexpensive and easy to make, 
handle, and keep in repair. 



— B 



--H 



f4' 



r-^-^i 




(A) Hoops forming frame at bottom. (B) Hoops forming frame at top. (C) Top of 
trap, made of barrel head. (Z?) Strips around door. (E) Door frame. (F) Screen on 
door. (C) Button holding door. (H) Screen on outside of trap. (7) Strips on side of 
trap between hoops. (/) Tips of these strips projecting to form legs. (K) Cone. (L) 
United edges of screen forming cone, (if) .Aperture at apex of cone. 

The trap pictured is 24 inches in height, with a diameter inside the 
hoops of 18 inches. The cone of wire inside the trap is 22 inches high. 

The bottom frame of the trap is made by fitting two flat barrel hoops 
one inside the other so that the inside diameter is 18 inches. The 
upper part of the frame is made in the same way, but a round board 
is fitted tightly into the hoops to form the top. In the top board a 
hole 10 inches square is cut. Parallel to the sides of this opening and 



452 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

about an inch from them should be nailed half-inch strips. Into these 
httle jambs should be fitted a screened frame which should be held 
tightly in place by wooden buttons. 

To make the cage, nail 12 or 14 mesh screen wire 24 inches wide 
around the top and the bottom, and wire or solder the lap, so that no 
flies can escape. Outside the screen nail to the top and the bottom 
frames at equal intervals four 25-inch laths or strips of wood, allowing 
them to project 1 inch at the bottom to form legs for the trap and leave 
for the flies an entrance into the cone. 

The cone for a trap of this size should be 22 inches high and of such 
a diameter at the bottom that it fits exactly inside the lower hoop, to 
which it should be closely tacked. In making the cone it is easiest to 
experiment with a large sheet of stiff paper until a cone of the right 
size has been made. This paper when cut will be a pattern for cutting 
the wire screening. An easy way to make this pattern is to use a semi- 
circle of paper with a radius of 24 inches. It will take about two-thirds 
of such a semicircle to make the pattern for a cone of the size described. 

Before inserting the cone, make a small hole at the point or apex, 
through which the flies can crawl into the trap. 

To bait the trap, place beneath the cone, on a flat saucer or a piece 
of board, banana skins, sirup, meat, or other foods which seem to at- 
tract flies. The flies will fly upward from the bait into the cone and 
continue until they go through the small hole into the cage. To remove 
the flies from the cage, scald them and pour them out of the opening 
at the top. 

BREAKAGE OF JARS IN CANNING 

The Ofllce of Extension Work, North and West, States Relations 
Service, suggests that breakage of jars is due to such causes as — 

1. Overpacking jars. Corn, pumpkin, peas, lima beans, and swoet 
potatoes expand in processing. Do not fill the jars quite full. 

2. Placing cold jars in hot water, or vice versa. As soon as the jars 
are filled with hot sirup or hot water, place immediately in the canner. 

3. If top cracks during sterilization, or when lever is forced down, 
the wire bail was too tight. 

4. In steam canner, having too much water in liie canner. Water 
should not come above the i)latf()rm. 

5. Cold draft striking jars when they are removed from the canner. 



EDITORIALS 

The Annual Meeting. Perhaps the American Home Economics As- 
sociation has never held a meeting that yiekled more general satisfac- 
tion to all present than the Annual Meeting in Ithaca, N. Y., June 28 
to July 2. With an attendance of nearly three hundred, with each ses- 
sion holding meetings in addition to the general sessions, with groups 
of social workers, of teachers and of journalists holding conferences, the 
only drawback seemed to be too many attractions for different places 
at the same time. One difficulty in arranging programs for Home 
Economics meetings seems to lie in the fact that not only does Home 
Economics touch upon so many subjects, but most Home Economics 
workers are equally interested in different phases of the work. When, 
for example, discussions of methods of social work with leaders like Miss 
Winifred Gibbs and Miss Winslow, and conferences on science led by 
Dr. Ruth Wheeler, and including Dr. Langworthy, Dr. Dubois, and 
others who arc actually doing research work, are held in adjoining 
rooms it is difficult for one who sees the great value and importance of 
each to choose where to go. 

Miss Van Rensselaer and her co-workers found it a serious problem 
to provide rooms for the many conferences; yet in these very gatherings 
lay much of the inspiration and help gained from the meeting. 

The program was carried out practically as announced. The few 
who could not be present sent papers. The session on Journalism was 
particularly fortunate in this way, since it had many speakers, and only 
one failed to respond by presence or paper. 

Interspersed with the meetings were excursions to the many interest- 
ing places in the region. The breakfast announced on the program for 
Sunday morning was served in the woods cafeteria fashion, a plan for a 
picnic new to most of the guests. 

** Omelet and Oatmelia" proved not only a "lamentable" but a de- 
lectable tragedy. Those of the cast who came back from their vaca- 
tion to present it must have felt rewarded for their efforts by the mani- 
fest pleasure of the audience and by the substantial contribution that 
was earned for the Richards Memorial Fund. 

453 



454 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

Moving pictures and a daily singing school gave further opportunity 
for recreation. 

The hospitality of Cornell was as generous as ever, and "still we 
gazed and still the wonder grew" that in addition to the regular work of 
the year so much could be planned and so delightfully carried out for 
the inspiration and entertainment of those at the meeting. 

At the close of the Ithaca meeting a number went to New York and 
attended the meeting of the Association held in connection with the 
N. E. A. 

A report of these meetings and as many of the papers as possible will 
be given in succeeding numbers of the Journal. 



Dean ^Marion Talbot of the University of Chicago who was elected 
president of the Association for the coming year telegraphed her appre- 
ciation of the honor conferred but, to the great regret of the Association, 
her inability to serve. 

Miss \'an Rensselaer continues as president until a new election by the 
Council is completed. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
Journal of Home EcoNOincs if the Journal price is listed. 



The Adolescent Period — Its Features atui 
Management. By Lotns Starr, M.D. 
Philadelphia: P. Blakiston's Son & Com- 
pany, 1915, pp. 211. $1.00. 

With simple diction, unencumbered by 
unnecessar>' technicalities, the author has 
presented a very valuable book for teachers, 
parents, physicians, and social workers. 
Chapters are devoted to the Growth, and 
the Development of Muscle Power, Physical 
Eklucation, The Diseases of Adolescence, 
The Faults and Criminal Tendencies of 
Adolescents, Menstruation, and Sexual 
Enlightenment. 

\Miile no special reference is made, there 
is a strong suggestion that the inspiration 
of the writer is to be found in the first volume 
of Stanley Hall's work on Adolescence. 

From the standpoint of teachers, it is 
unfortunate that no bibliography is ap- 
pended, and foot notes are almost entirely 
omitted. There is little to indicate the 
authority for some of the statements which 
are made, about which there may be dififer- 
ences of opinion. .Vs a brief corapend, how- 
ever, upon the important subject of adoles- 
cence, it is to be recommended as unusually 
meritorious. 

Nostrums and Quackery. Articles on the 
Nostrum Evil and Quackery Reprinted, 
with Additions and Modifications, from 
The Journal of the American Medical 
Association. (Second Edition.) Chicago: 
American Medical Association Press, 1912, 
pp. 708. $1.50. 

This volume, which is the final result of 
the agitation started ten years or more ago 
by the American Medical .\ssociaiion and 



a similar campaign in Collier's Magazine 
and which embodies also many of the results 
obtained by the Bureau of Chemistry, U. 
S. Dept. of Agriculture, in their studies of 
proprietary medicine and the like, gives a 
remarkably clear picture of the business of 
quackery and nostrums. Well on to a 
hundred so-called cures and as many pro- 
prietary medicines and toilet articles are 
taken up by name and the methods and 
materials used by their promoters are in 
most cases plainly shown. The very com- 
prehensive index makes it possible to refer 
at once to any particular person or article 
in which one may chance to be interested. 
The teacher not infrequently has need for 
data on such subjects in order to answer the 
questions which are put to her regarding 
some proprietarj' articles and alleged diet 



Water Purification Plants and their Opera- 
tion. By Milton F. Stein. New York: 
John Wiley and Sons, 1915, pp. 258. 
$2.50. 

This book is valuable as a reference book 
for Home Economics students in Public Hy- 
giene and Laundry work. The description 
of the purification plants and the necessary 
scientific processes connected with their 
management is given in a way to be readily 
understood by the student. "To make the 
book more readable to those not intimately 
connected with water purification plants, a 
chapter has been added on the natural 
chemistry of water showing the derivation 
of its chemical constituents from the geologi- 
cal formations \vith which it comes in con- 
tact." 

The simple experiments for the analysis 



455 



456 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[August 



of water and the determination of its hard- 
ness, such as Home Economics students may 
perform in connection with the laboratory 
work in Household Chemistry or Laundry, 
are given. 

The reviewer believes that while it is a 
valuable book to be reserved as a reference 
book in a public library or a general library 
of a college or technical school it would not 
be expedient to purchase it for a special 
Home Economics Department library as the 
same material may be found in less technical 
and less expensive books. 



The Means and Methods of Agricultural 
Education. Axbert H. Leake. Boston 
and New York: Houghton Mifl3in Com- 
pany, 1915, pp. xxiii -f 273. $2.00. 

This volume, which is one of the series of 
prize pupers made possible by the generosity 
of Hart, Schaffner & Marx, of Chicago, con- 
tains a chapter on "The Woman on the 
Farm" and occasional references to the 
teaching of Home Economics subjects in 
agricultural schools. The information given 
on these topics summarizes the usually ac- 
cepted theories regarding the value of special 
training for women in domestic subjects, 
but the amount of space devoted to it 
hardly seems in proportion to its recognized 
importance. 

The Wheat Industry, For Use in Schools. 
N. A. Bengston and Denee Griffi-th. 
New York: The Macmillan Company, 
1915, pp. xiii + 331. 

This little volume, which belongs to the 
Industrial Series, has brought together the 
main features of wheat production and dis- 
tribution in different parts of the world. 
As the first chapter says, it is an industrial 
story of wheat, and though intended pri- 
marily for students, may be of interest to 
others. While it is full of accurate and use- 
ful information, the reader can not help 
wishing that at least the more picturesque 
parts of the material had been presented in 
somewhat more readable form. 



Holy Earth. Liberty Hyde Bailey. New 
York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1915, pp. 
171. Price $1.00. 

The Holy Earth is the first of a series of 
Background Books in which Professor Bailey 
"will present from time to time, in small 
books, his personal expressions on the im- 
portant and interesting subjects to which 
he has devoted his life." This book might 
well be selected as supplemental reading or 
for the study of essaj-^ in High Schools. 

It is refreshing to find such enthusiasm for 
the beauty of form and color in a perfect 
apple, potato, or pumpkin, and to meet the 
plea for the education of the young in the 
appreciation of the fruits of the earth. 

The chapter on daily fare is recommended 
to students of dietetics. 

Those who are trying to help the exten- 
sion of Home Economics into the rural 
regions, and especially those who are con- 
nected with reformatory and industrial work, 
will find much in this volume to interest 
them. The pioneers who are especially 
fortunate in being able to take part in the 
founding of a new institution should read 
particularly the section on "A Forest Back- 
ground for a Reformatory." 

For all who seek rest in reading, this 
tribute to the Holy Earth will be a delight 
and refreshment. 

Tobacco. By Bruce Fink. New York: 
Abingdon Press, 1915, pp. 123. $0.50. 

Mr. Fink, Professor of Botany in Miami 
University, Indiana, gives a scientist's pro- 
test against the increasing use of tobacco in 
schools and colleges and especially depre- 
cates the popular form of college entertain- 
ment — the "Smoker" now so comtFronly 
given to bring together the students of each 
department and, even for the purpose of help- 
ing the president of the university to learn 
to know his boys. 

It is, however, the chapter on food and 
diet, showing the relation of diet to the desire 
for tobacco or other stimulant which should 
interest Home Economics teachers. I"or 
this chapter alone the book should Ix: in 
every cooking room. As Professor Fink cm- 



1916] 



EXCHANGES 



457 



pbasizes, the mother must guard her boy 
through proper diet, as well as character 
building, in his earliest years. 

Early American Craftsmen. By Walter A. 
Dyek. New York: The Century Co., 
1915, pp. XV + 387. $2.40. 

This readable and well-illustrated book 
serves the double purpose of acting as guide 



to the collector of ,\mericana and of intro- 
ducing to the reader the personality of some 
of the leading early craftsmen of this country, 
prominent among them Duncan Phyfe, 
furniture maker; theWillards and Thomases, 
of clock-making fame; the picturesque Baron 
Stiegel; Paul Revere; and some of the minor 
potters, furniture makers, and others. The 
bibliography also suggests attractive books 
not known to the general reader. 



EXCHANGES 



The bulk of instruction a girl gets, both 
at home and in the domestic training classes 
of the schools, only emphasizes her idea that 
if she knows how to make chicken terrapin, 
and what kind of curtains are suitable for 
casement and what for French windows, she 
"knows her business." That is, the training 
she gets is almost entirely in manipulations 
and processes, in recipes and formulae and 
"ways." It is rule-of-thi^mb instruction. 
It concerns itself very little with principles. 
It does not aim to arouse the imagination, or 
to set the mind to work on the succession 
of problems each day turns up. (Is this 
true?] .... 

The very first essential in any efficient 
system of domestic training must be to break 
up the idea that it is a collection of fixed 
ways of doing things; to train the mind of 
the girl to attack it openly; to arouse in- 



terest in experimenting, in fitting work to 
her needs, and ways to her particular situa- 
tion 

The e.xperience in the modern factory or 
shop develops certain qualities, and drives 
in certain ideas much needed in housekeep- 
ing. It demonstrates that order is not an 
external, artifical condition cultivated because 
of a fear of what people will think if you are 
disorderly, but that it is a law on which re- 
sults depend, and without which neither 
utility nor beauty is f)ossible. It drives 
home the reasons for promptness, exactness, 
consideration of others. — Ida Tarbell in the 
Woman's Home Companion. 

Probably the most effective way to pre- 
vent our boys and girls from using slang at 
home would be to make it a required subject 
of study at school. — The Youth's Companion. 



458 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

BOOKS RECEIVED 

Tlie Adolescent Period: Its Features and Management. By Louis Starr. Philadelphia: P. 

1 Blakiston's Sons Co., 1915, pp. 211. $1.00. 

Adventures in Thrift. By Anna Steese Richardson. Indianapolis: Bobbs-Merrill Co., 

1915, pp. 229. $1.25. 
American Association for the Study and Prevention of Infant Mortality. Transactions of the 

Sixth Annual Meeting, Philadelphia, November 10-12, 1915. Baltimore, Md., 1916, 

pp. 474. $3.00. 
The Avoidance of Fires. By Arland D. Weeks. Boston: D. C. Heath and Co., 1916, pp. 

128. $0.60. 
Canning and How to Use Canned Foods. By A. VV. Bitting and K. G. Bitting. Washington, 

D. C: National Canners Association, 1916, pp. 184. 
From House to House:lA Book of Odd Recipes from Many Homes. By A. N. Furgerson and 

Constance Johnson. New York: E. P. Button and Co., 1916, pp. 291. $1.50. 
General Science — First Course. By Lewis Elhuff. Boston: D. C. Heath and Co., 1916, 

pp. 433. 
Historic Styles in Furniture. By Virginia Robie. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1916, 

c 1905, pp. 196. $3.00. *?^: 

Mothercraft. By Sarah Comstock. New York: Hearst's International Library Co., 1915, 

pp. 215. $1.00. 
Self -Reliance. By Dorothy Canfield Fisher. Indianapolis: Bobbs-Merrill Co., 1916, 

pp. 243. 
Songs of Childhood. By S. Evelyn Bering. New York: The A. S. Barnes Co., 1916, pp. 

114. $1.20. 
Ways of Women. By Ida M. TarbeU. New York: MacmiUan Co., 1915, pp. 135. $1.00. 
What the Schools Teach and Might Teach. By Franklin Bobbitt. Cleveland: Survey Com- 
mittee of the Cleveland Foundation (Cleveland Education Survey), 1916, pp. 108. 

PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

Bread as Food. By Carl Voegtlin, M. X. Sullivan and C. N. Myers. Washington, B. C: 

Gov. Printing Office, 1916, pp. 11. (U. S. Public Health Service Reprint 333.) 
The Cigarette Problem. By William A. McKeever. 1916, pp. 7. (Dept. of Child Welfare 

of the University Extension Bivision, Lawrence, Kansas.) 
Development of Sugar and Acid in Grapes During Ripening. By William B. Alwood. Wash- 
ington B. C: Gov. Printing Office, 1916, pp. 28. (Bur. of Chem. Bui. 335.) 
Suggestions for the Health of Childrett. By Helen Knowlton. N. Y. Sute College of Agr. 

at Cornell Univ. Ithaca, N. Y.: Jan. 1, 1916., pp. 67-76. (Cornell Reading Courses. 

Course for the Farm Home, vol. 5, no. 103.) 
A Study of the Preparation of Frozen and Dried Eggs in the Producing Section. By M. E. 

Pennington and others. Washington, D. C: Gov. Printing Office, 1916, pp. 99, pis. 17. 

(U. S. Bept. of Agr. Bui. 224.) 
The Tranmission of Disease by Flies. By Ernest A. Sweet. Washington, B. C: Gov, 

Printing Office, 1916, pp. 20. (U. S. Public Health Service Supplement no. 29.) 
Waste Meat in the Home, Part I. By Susannah Usher. Ithaca, N. Y.: Becember 1, 1915, 

pp. 59-64. (Cornell Reading Courses. Course for the Farm Home, vol. 5, no. 101.) 

Free to those residing in New York State. 



1916] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 459 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODIC/VL LITER.\TURE 
Pontributions to the bibliography are welcomed. Please send material to the Journal. 

Hygiene and Sanitation 

Fish Poisoning by Bacteria of the Paratyphosus-enteritidis Group. R. Mliller, Miinchen. 
Med. Wchytschr., 61 (1914), no. 9, pp. 471^73, figs. 7; abs. in Expt. Sin. Rec, 34 (1916), p. 
459. 

Micro-organisms in Dried Fruits and Vegetables. Konserv. Ztg., 16 (1915), no. 40, p. 
157. 

The Influence of Temperature and Humidity in Closed Rooms on the Human Organism. 
K. HinUe, Zlschr. Uyg. u. Injektionskrank, 80 (1915), no. 2, pp. 171-183. 

The Relation of Heat to Summer Diarrheas of Infants. A. BIcyer, Jour. Amer. Med. 
Assoc, 65 (1915), no. 25, pp. 2161-2163, figs. 4. 

Food poisoning by the Bacillus Paratyphosus B. — An Epidemic Due to the Organism 
Isolated from Pie. H. S. Bernstein and E. S. Fish, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 66 (1916), no. 
3, pp. 167-171. 

Fleas as Pests to Man and Animals, with Suggestions for Their Control. F. C. Bishop, 
U. S. Dept. Agr. Farmers' Bui. 683 (1915), pp. 15, figs. 6. 

Foods and Cookery 

Caffeine Content of Various Beverages. J. L. Henderson, Midland Druggist, 49 (1915), 
no. 8, pp. 348-349. 

Carbohydrate Transformations in Sweet Potatoes. H. Hasselbring and L. A. Hawkins, 
U. S. Dept. Agr., Jour. Agr. Research, 3 (1915), no. 4. pp. 331-342. 

Sixteenth .\nnual Report on Food .\dulteration Under the Pure Food Law. W. M. Allen, 
E. W. Thornton, and C. E. Bell, Bui. N. C. Dept. Agr., 36 (1915), no. 12, pp. 112. 

Table Sirups Other Than Maple. A. Lemolne, Lab. Inland Rev. Dept. Canada Bui. 
320 (1915), pp. 23; abs. in Expt. Sta. Record, 34, p. 660. 

Sugar E.Ttravagance in Baking. F. Stietzel, Ztschr. OJ'enil. Chem., 21 (1915), no. 10, pp. 
152, 153; abs. in Expt. Sta. Record, 34, p. 660. 

The Sugar Beet and Derived Products (Pulp, Sirup, Sugar) as Raw Materials for Bread 
Making. M. P. Neumann, Ztschr. Ver. Deut. Zuckerindus., no. 711 (1915), II, pp. 215-225; 
abs. in Expt. Sta. Record, 34, p. 660. 

Determination of the Flour Content of Bread. G. J. VanMeurs, Chem. Weekbl., 12 (1915) , 
no. 2, pp. 20-24; abs. in Expt. Sta. Record, 34, p. 113. 

The Flour Content [of Bread] Problem. K. Scheringa, Chem. Weekbl., 12 (1915), no. 
6, p. 117; abs. in Expt. Sta. Record, 34, p. 113. 

Bread. C. J. Koning and W. C. Mooij, Jr., Chem. Weekbl., 11 (1914), no. 50, pp. 1064- 
1066; abs. in Expt. Sta. Record, 34, p. 113. 

The Food and Drugs Act. U. S. Dept. Agr. Office Solicitor Circ. 85, (1916), pp. 6. 

Some Effects of Storage on Coffee. R. E. Doolittle and B. B. Wright, Amer. Jour. 
Pharm., 87 (1915), no. 11, pp. 524-526. 

Maple Sugar. A. McGill, Lab. Inland Rev. Dept. Canada Bui. 324 (1915), pp. 25: abs. 
in Expt. Sta. Record, 34, p. 460. 

Biochemical Comparisons Between Mature Beef and Immature Veal. W. N. Berg, U. S. 
Dept. Agr. Jour. Agr. Research, 5 (1916), no. 15, pp. 667-711, figs. 6. 



460 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

The Tilefish: A New Deep-Sea Food Fish. U. S. Dept. Com. Bur. Fisheries Econ. Circ. 
19 (1915), pp. 6, figs. 2. 

Milling and Baking Tests of Wheat Containing Admixtures of Rye, Com Cockle, King- 
head, and Vetch. R. C. Miller, U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui. 328 (1915), pp. 24, pis. 2, figs. 10. 

Electric Bake Ovens [In Restaurants and Cafeterias] at Salt Lake City. B. W. Menden- 
hall. Jour. Electricity, 36 (1916), no. 2, p. 37, fig. 1. 

Index to Reports on Food Products and Drugs. J. P. Street, Connecticut State Sta. Bui. 
187 (1915), pp. 94. 

[The Utilization of Prickly Pears as Human Food.] Report of the Prickly-Pear Travel- 
ing Commission, 1st November, 1912-30th April, 1914. T, H. Johnston and H. Tyron, 
Brisbane: Govt., 1914, pp. xx + 131, figs. 66; abs. in Expt. Sta. Record, 33, p. 64. 

Physiology and Nutrition 

Carbohydrate Utilization in Diabetes. E. P. Joslin, Arch. Int. Med., 16 (1915), pp. 693- 
732. 

The Effect of Ingested Purines on the Uric Acid Content of the Blood. VV. Denis, Jour. 
Biol. Chem., 23 (1915), no. 1, pp. 147-155. 

A Study of the Metabolism in Experimental Diabetes. V. H. K. Moorhouse, S. W. 
Patterson, and M. Stephenson, Biochem. Jour., 9 (1915), pp. 171-214, 

Acidosis in Omnivera and Herbivora and its Relation to Protein Storage. H. Steenbock, 
V. E, Nelson, and E. B. Hart, Wisconsin Sta. Research Bui. 36 (1915), pp. 19. 

Dextrinized Malt in Infant Feeding. T. LeBoutillier, Amer. Jour. Pkarm., 87 (1915), 
no. 4, pp. 162-163. 

Recent Contributions to the Knowledge of Beri-berL H. Schaumann, Arch. Sckifs u. 
Tropen Hyg., 19 (1915), nos. 15, pp. 393-418; 16, pp. 425^45; abs. in Expt. Sta. Record, 
34, p. 462. 

Nutrition and Metabolism of an Infant Fed on Artificial Food. E. Helleson, Nord. Med. 
Arch., Int. Med., 48 (1915), no. 3-4, pp. 1-121; abs. in Expt. Sta. Record, 34, p. 462. 

The Value of Blood in Human Nutrition and the Behavior of Formaldehyde in the Organ- 
ism. E. Salkowski, Bicchem. Ztschr., 71 (1915), no. 4-5, pp. 365-390; abs. in Expt. Sta. 
Record, 34, p. 459. 

Carbohydrate Indigestion. W. Tileston, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc., 65 (1915), no. 26, 
pp. 2214-2216. 

Studies in the Adaptation of an Artificial Food to Human Milk. H. J. Gerstenberger, 
H. D. Hasb'ns, H. H. McGregor, and H. O. Ruh, Amer. Jour. Diseases Children, 10 (1915), 
no. 4, pp. 249-265. 

Studies on Blood Fat. — I, Variations in the Fat Content of the Blood Under Approxi- 
mately Normal Conditions. W. R. Bloor, Jour. Biol. Chem., 19 (1914), no. 1, pp. 1-24, figs. 5. 

Studies on Blood Fat. — II. Fat Absorption and the Blood Lipoids. W, R. Bloor, Jour. 
Biol. Chem., 23 (1915), no. 1, pp. 317-326. 

The Resumption of Growth After Long-continued Failure to Grow. T. B. Osborne, L. B. 
Mendel, Edna L. Ferry, and A. J. Wakeman, Jour. Biol. Chem., 23 (1915), no. 2, pp. 439- 
454, figs. 5. 

Studies on Growth. — II. On the Probable Nature of the Substance Promoting Growth in 
Young Animals. C. Funk and A. B. Macallum, Jour. Biol. Chem., 23 (1915), no. 2, pp. 413- 
421, figs. 3. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



State College for Teachers, Albany, 
N. Y. On the fifth of May, there gathered 
at the State College for Teachers, Albany, 
N. Y., the teachers of household arts and 
sciences of the seven state normal schools. 
This meeting was suggested by the teachers 
themselves, and carried out through the 
efforts of Miss Marion S. Van Liew, head 
of the department in the State College. 
The sessions were chiefly discussions with 
Mrs. Anna C. Hedges Talbot, State Di- 
rector, concerning new phases of teaching 
household arts and sciences, and methods of 
improving the normal school courses in the 
state. 

This meeting, the first of this nature in 
the state, is now established as an annual 
gathering. 

Drexel Institute announces that it can 
admit only 384 freshman to the regular 
Day Courses in The Engineering School, 
The School of Domestic Science and Arts, 
and The Secretarial School in the fall of 
1916. On June 5 the Committee on Admis- 
sions and Credits had on file 154 applica- 
tions for these courses alone. It is now in 
corresp)ondence with over 1731 students who 
are interested in such work. The 1915- 
1916 registration totaJed 785 regular day 
students and 1525 evening students. 

The Institute exists primarily for the 
people of Greater Philadelphia, but students 
from other communities are also received. 
It is necessary to consider all applicants 
strictly in the order of their application. 

Two and four year courses, and extension 
and evening courses in domestic science and 
arts are offered. 

The Second Inter-munlclpal Confer- 
ence on the School Lunch Problem was 
held in Boston on May 5 and 6, 1916. 



The program included: 

Popular Education as to Diet, Sarah 
Louise .\mold. Dean, Simmons College; Ap- 
plication of Dietary Standards to the Needs 
of the Normal Child, Percy Goldthwait 
Stiles, Ph.D., Instructor in Physiology, Har- 
vard University; Some Social Aspects of 
School Feeding, Edward F. Brown, Executive 
Secretary, New York School Lunch Com- 
mittee; Public Health and Food Education, 
WiUiam Eustis Brown, C. P. IL, Instructor, 
School for Health Officers, Harvard Univer- 
sity and Massachusetts Institute of Tech- 
nology; The Importance of School Lunches in 
Establishing Standards of Value-received for 
Food Expenditiu^s, William Morse Cole, As- 
sociate Professor of Accounting, Graduate 
School of Business Administration, Harvard 
University; Cost of Educating the Underfed 
Child, Ira S. WUe, M.D., Board of Educa- 
tion, New York City; Surveying a School 
Lunch System, .Alice C. Boughton, Member 
of Staff, Cleveland Survey; Administrative 
Problems under Public Control, Emma Smed- 
ley, Superintendent of School Lunches, 
Philadelphia, Pa.; and School Lunch Values : 
The Point of Focus, Mrs. Mary H. Moran, 
Director, School Lunch Department, Wo- 
en's Educational and Industrial Union, 
Boston. 

It is hoped that these papers may soon 
be published in a condensed form and so 
made available for the many interested in 
the school lunch problem. 

Home Economics in Oklahoma. The 
popularity of Home Economics in the schools 
of the West is indicated by the fact that it is 
necessary to double for next year the domes- 
tic science and domestic art accommoda- 
tions of the Oklahoma College for Women, 
located at Chickasha. This is one of the 
few exclusively girls' schools in the West 

461 



462 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[August 



maintained by the state. Four hundred 
and eleven girls were enrolled last year. 
Attendance showed an increase of 176 per 
cent in two years. Students are required to 
take work in household economics, and they 
are encouraged to take work in piano and 
voice by being given indi\'idual lessons with- 
out tuition charge. By applying scientific 
management to the dormitories, the state 
furnishes the very best in board and room 
for $16.00 per month. 

New York City Public Schools. Miss 
Margaret L. M. Holt, Assistant Director of 
Home Economics in the New York City 
schools, has been appointed acting director 
since the death of Mrs. Mary E. Williams, 
that took place on February 12, 1916. 

Mrs. Williams had been in poor health 
about four years, but was much better when 
she was suddenly stricken with the bron- 
chial pneumonia that proved fatal in a few 
da>^. 

Mrs. Williams was one of the pioneers in 
the Home Economics movement, especially 
that branch of it which was interested in 
the development of the work in public 
schools. She was one of the first teachers 
of the subject in the New York City schools 
and was made Director in 1896. The work 
grew rapidly under her leadership until at 
the time of her death there were 233 kit- 
chens with 238 teachers in the elementary 
schoob, kitchens in eleven high schools, with 



22 teachers; and classes in both evening and 
vacation schools. 

A further account of her work will appear 
in a later issue of the J jITrnal. 

Brief Notes. Mrs. J. C. Gawler, of Den- 
ver, Colorado, is to succeed Miss Helen 
Louise Johnson as Chairman of the Home 
Economics Department of the General Fed- 
eration of Women's Clubs. 

Mrs. Alice D. Feuling has resigned from 
her position as Dean of Women and Direc- 
tor of Home Economics in Lombard College. 

The Journal will be glad to be informed 
of any changes of positions for the coming 
year. Often questions come that can be 
answered only if we have full and correct 
records. 

A typewritten pamphlet on Feeding the 
Family of Small Income, prepared under the 
auspices of the New England Home Eco- 
nomics Association, may be obtained for 
25 cents at the headquarters of the Asso- 
ciation iu Boston. 

Some of the study topics for 1916 of the 
Ohio Farm Women's Clubs are: Garden 
herbs and their uses; Potatoes, nutritive 
value and varieties; Handy kitchens; Babies, 
summer care — prenatal care; Country school 
sanitation; Family government. The study 
plans and articles bearing on these topics 
are published in The Ohio Farmer, under 
whose direction these dubs are organized. 



\'oL. Mil, Xo. 9 



SEPTEMBER, 1916 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking. Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mas Alice P. N'obton. Editor Ketirah E Baldwin. M^nunint Eliio, 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel As-na Barrows c. F. Lan-cwortuy Isabel Elv Lord 

Ex-Officio Sf embers— l\TU\Ki\F. J. MaiKay, President American Home Economics Association 

Emma H. Ginther, Chairman Institution Economics Section 

Ruth Wheeler. Chairman Science Section 

Neale S. Knowles, Chairman Extension Education Section 
Collaborators — The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisers 



CONTENTS 



I 



liii. Sk;xificanck of the Home 
I III Boston Stidents' Umox .... 
lIoMi: KcoNOMics i\ Tin: Detroit Schools 
! Ml War and Dietetics 

I I 1)1 NTS' ('oNTRiniTKlNS ..... 
1 iR THE HOMEMAKKR 

A Convenient Kitchen .... 
A Triimph of Scientific Hocsekeeplng 
Is THE Grocer or the Customer Dishonest? 
A Contribution to Kxactness in Cookery 

I'.DITORIAL 



Books anu I.iteratlre 

Bibliography of Home Economics 

. News from the Tilld .... 



I 



. Mary W'illcox Glenn 
Urs. Kalliarine Osborne 
Charlotte Keen 
Kiith W'heder 



I.oitise Stanley 

Siirali T. Barrous 

Prrrival Fassig 

Marv Ilinman Abel 



46.5 
475 
47<> 
488 
4'M 
4'>S 
49.5 

4y.s 

499 
503 

505 



.S07 



511 



The Journal of Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association. 
$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIG.N $2.25. SI.NGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on New Yorl:, Express Order or Postal .Money Order, payable 
to the American Home Economics .\ssociation. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk.' 

CHANGE IN .ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which the 
change i« to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be dearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 



.\MERIC.\X HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 



Sta'hon N, Baltimore, Md. 



Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Pott Office 




i 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. Mil SEP'I'KMBER, 1916 No. 9 

THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE HOME^ 

MARY WILLCOX GLENN 
Member of the Council, Charity Organization Society, New York City 

Some weeks ago I went with a group of students to visit the New 
York City Farm Colony situated on Staten Island. We had been 
shown through the large congregate building, where the greater number 
of the inmates ate and slept, had seen the workshops, the recreation 
hall, the kitchen, the store rooms and the laundry; had walked across 
the fields which were about to be ploughed for crops, had been taken 
into the greenhouse; and then we were driven from the clump of big, 
institutional buildings to a group of detached cottages which house, as 
the Charities Directory states, "the semi-able-bodied class of destitute 
aged poor and their aged and infirm husbands or wives." 

We went at once into the most recently built of the cottages, a house 
planned to shelter about forty couples. Crossing the threshold we 
came into a square hall which served as a sitting room from which 
opened the dining room to the right, and the pantry and kitchen to the 
rear. In the dining room the tables were laid for the next meal, and one 
could see that care had been taken to provide fresh cloths and shining 
table ware for the inmates. In the kitchen a wholesome dinner was 
being prepared on the large range, and about the kitchen itself there 
was an air of efficient order that yielded assurance of attention being 
given to the preparation and the selection of proper meals. The fur- 
nishings of the pantry and the capacity of the ice box gave assurance 
also of satisfactory storing of prepared and unprepared foods. 

* Presented at the University of Chicago Quarter-Centennial, 1891-1916, before the 
Department of Household Administration. 

463 



464 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

On the second and third floors of the cottage were the bedrooms for 
the aged couples and for the matron and other attendants, the well 
equipped bath rooms, and the airy, bright halls. We went from one 
bedroom to another, stopping to talk to the various couples that we 
found in them. Each room was comfortably and attractively furnished 
and in each had been collected some few personal belongings that gave 
indication of the past life of the individual occupants. 

In a corner room was an Italian and his wife. He was a dignified 
figure that made one think of Italy strugghng to be free in the middle 
of the nineteenth century, so much of native rectitude did he carry from 
the outer world into that refuge of the broken. He stood silent, while 
his frail, more emotional wife in rapid speech emptied her mind of an 
accumulation of small impressions. The Italian student with whom 
she talked gave s>Tnpathetic responses, and afterwards explained to 
those of us who could not understand their speech that the little woman 
was hungry for an opportunity of talking with someone who could 
understand her, and whom she in turn could understand. As the two 
talked, the tears ran down the cheeks of that unbent old man, her 
husband. 

Across the hall was an American couple. L^ing open on the table of 
their room was a copy of the New York Churchman. It was open at 
the page on which was printed a picture of Phillips Brooks, and, in 
answer to a comment, the man spoke of his own appreciation of the 
great bishop and of his being glad that a member of the church to which 
he had belonged sent him back numbers of the Episcopal Church paper. 
"Yes, we belonged to the Ascension Church," his wife added. .Farther 
down the hall was an old Irish couple, on whose walls hung a rosary and 
pictures that showed their allegiance to their church. But as one stopped 
to talk, one realized that the ravages of drink had left but little mind 
with which the sobered couple could make response to those who visited 
them in their present home. 

The German couple in the room at the end of the hall were taciturn, 
so we moved on to the third floor, and came to a room in which sat a 
mother with her middle-aged daughter. They had been dressmakers, 
and there was about them the air of those who have an ambition to set a 
fashion, shown by a certain pathetic precision in their manner of doing 
their hair and adjusting their dress. We did not know the background 
of their lives, but we could realize how filled it had been with hard 
struggle, because of the deep care stamped on the mother's face, and 



1916] THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE HOME 465 

the mere scraps of a mind that were left to the daughter. She, the 
daughter, received us, as in old days she might have received her cus- 
tomers, with a fluttering pretence that she could serve us well. In that 
fluttering efi"ort to catch our attention we got an impression of all 
those vain efforts that had been put forth to seize upon a business that 
was sHpping away. 

It was soberly that we walked down the stairs, across the pleasant 
hall, and out on to the drive. In spite of the abundant comfort of that 
interior we had an impression of the pathos of the life lived there. It 
was the dearth of normal relationships that oppressed us. The fact 
was patent that the ties that had been made in the early years had not 
been secure enough to bind the several members of that heterogeneous 
group each to the locality in which were to be found men and women of 
likes and dislikes similar to his or her own, to hold each in a neighbor- 
hood to which in some degree he or she was native and in which the 
manner of life was shaped from within, not imposed from without. 

To those couples, so generously provided with material comforts by 
the great municipality, had come the evil of a break with their world. 
They had seen the weakening of the bonds of relationship, and they 
were powerless to resist the pressure which carried them out from their 
shell of a home, all that was left of the home of their early ambitions, 
into the security of the City Home, the place dreaded in their dreams. 

Perhaps in their early imagining they, too, had conceived of their 
lives as unfolding so that at each stage of progress there might be a 
pushing up to a higher plane. 

Felix Adler in a recently published essay,'^ gives a description of the 
relationships that should be maintained in family life. He writes of the 
process of accommodation between the man and the woman; he, the 
man, standing in the home for the principle of differentiation, she, the 
woman, for the principle of integration; and the quickening of the seed 
of worth in the young through this process. Within the family group 
the individual grows in childhood through being held in right subjec- 
tion; in adolescence, through a realizing of right relationships as he 
prepares for his life's work; in early middle life, through such reaction 
to his work as will elicit his distinctive gift as a worker; in later middle 
life, through a quickening of the reaction of his work upon interrelated 
callings; in old age, through a right summation of life's results and a 
welcome to his successor; on the brink, through the right farewell. 

* The World Crisis and its Meaning, pp. 230, 231. 



466 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

What Dr. Adlerso describes is a well ordered world in miniature, a family 
democracy. 

But, to come back to the aged couples at the Farm Colony, those old 
people in their complete detachment seemed to offer, as a summation of 
their life's result, a page blank but for the one word, finis. One knew 
that their farewell to their world had lacked the dignity of choice and 
of right reaction on others within their immediate group. 

There was another impression one carried away, however, an impres- 
sion additional to that of severed human relationships. In trying to 
weigh the material gains in their comfortable quarters and to picture 
the contrast to the squalor from which they had been rescued, one 
dwelt nevertheless on what the hearth, the French foyer, means in the 
life of human beings and how great is the pain of being wrenched from 
the seclusion and the independence of the hearth into the promiscuity 
of any form of congregate living. Do you remember in Synge's Aran 
Islands the description of the evicting of an old woman whose fury was 
uncontrolled as she was driven from the hearth over which she had 
brooded for thirty years? To her as well as to her neighbors the 
"supreme catastrophe" was the "outrage to the hearth." In the chim- 
ney corner one could realize that one had identity; about it one could 
gather one's kin, from its vantage ground one could gain courage to 
brave, as did those Irish of the Aran Islands, the "world of grey" and 
"of wild rains and mists" which lay without the four walls. Because 
it is at the hearth that one can learn, without conscious reasoning, that 
life develops from within, that the good life is not something that is 
given, but that it is something that is won — and that it is won by those 
who act oblivious of the fact that they are teaching and are being 
taught. The Eastern poet Kabir^ writing more than four hundred years 
ago has expressed clearly what these two principles of family life mean, 
the principle of relationship and the principle of subjective value lodged 
in the objective fact of a home. "In the home is the true union" he 
wrote; "in the home is enjoyment of life" and "Lamps burn in every 
house, blind one! And you cannot see them." And also, "the home 
is the abiding place; in the home is reality; the home helps to attain 
to Him who is real." That last emphasizes a third principle of family 
life, the principle of aspiring reverence. Without reverence for someone 
who stands above oneself and yet who stands very close to oneself, one 
cannot conceive of attaining to any form of better life. There is a fourth 

» The Songs of Kabir. 



1916] THE SIGNIFICANCE OF TIIE HOME 467 

principle that Kabir emphasizes when he writes "Look and see where 
the root is; happiness shall be yours when you come to the root." 

In addition to the significance, of the home as a means of creating 
and strengthening relationships, of apprehending values and of experi- 
encing religion, there is its significance as the seed bed of democracy. 
George W. Russell (A. E.) says we must ''begin building the state in 
the parish," and when he says it, he has in mind, believer in the home 
that he is, that the parish as a political unit is but a congregation of 
homes. There can be a mutually helpful relationship of fellows within 
the parish only if there has gone on within the primary unit, the home, 
a process of welding — a process which has caused adhesion, not only 
on an obvdous plane of concrete failure and achievement, but on an 
intangible plane of unpremeditated exchange of unweighed services. 
From being so rooted, rooted in the discipline of and nourished by the 
incentive of stable homes, men and women can learn their parts so as to 
be able to play with skill, and one might say with abandon, in the great- 
est of all dramas, the drama of peace. 

If the significance of the home be considered in terms of spiritual 
rather than of material advance, one can realize that its conservation is 
not dependent on static industrial conditions. What is essential to its 
life must come from within, and if the heart of the home be sound, 
there will be an ability to yield the things which, though they may in 
the past have been held to be essential to the industrial life of the home, 
are realized to be clogs to its progress under the pressure of a rapidly 
changing economic system. The principle of the hearth can be main- 
tained even though the heating of the home be provided by a municipal 
furnace. It is the immaterial functions which are permanently valid; 
the materialistic functions which, in order that they may retain their 
validity, must be subject to a process of continuous change. 

I was talking recently with a man who has specialized as a teacher 
of method of family rehabilitation. He said that as he had gone more 
deeply into his subject he had come to realize with growing conviction 
that the family has unmatched importance as a trainer, because it is a 
small, coherent group and can offer a normal field for practice work. 
Neither in its composition nor in the tasks assigned need there be in 
the home the element of artificiality. In a discussion of the relation 
between the home and the school, at the National Conference of Chari- 
ties and Correction recently held in Indianapolis, one of the speakers 
spoke of the added emphasis that is being put on the value of the home 



468 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

by a colored settlement in Nashville. The emphasis is being shifted, 
he said, and more attention is now being given to the visiting of homes 
than to the conducting of clubs and classes within the settlement. 

While the llndings are disproving the utility of the particular homes 
visited as places of training, the settlement residents can draw on their 
experiences as arguments for a change in customs that will make possible 
a readjustment which shall react favorably on the homes themselves. 
The residents, on going into the homes of the child members of their 
settlements, have found that the mothers, in many instances the sole 
wage earners, have left their homes in the early mornings in order to 
prepare the breakfast for their masters and mistresses and for their 
masters' and mistresses' children. In the homes which the women have 
left, their own children have risen late to eat the cold breakfast laid aside 
for them the night before. Another speaker at the same meeting of 
the conference told of how she was coming to realize that it was not 
within the factory that one was going to be able to learn how factory 
life really reacts on the child. To learn what the factory work means 
in the life of a young wage earner one needs to walk home with the 
child at the day's end, when for oneself one can see what that strange 
new experience means to him, and then meet the child on his way to 
work in the early morning when he is emerging from the home to become 
a part of the big industrial world without. These two instances of a 
felt need of individual contacts, that shall bring the social worker, him- 
self, into the field of the home's influence, there to study the reactions 
of the world of work on the members of a family-, are indications of a 
growing conviction that we, as workers, must be carried back more and 
more regularly into the home, there to get proof of our efforts' worth and 
to continue the practice work begun in the school or in any other center. 

The need of relating the study of home administration to the life of 
the home itself is being more and more realized by the leaders in the 
departments of household administration. In a paper on the home and 
social efllciency, read by Mrs. Eva W. White in 1912, she drew atten- 
tion not only to the more obvious fact of the relation of the home to 
the community, but to how within the home itself there must be the 
trying out of technical processes and the realizing of moral factors. 
The wording of the Massachu.setts law on education for the home, 
namely, that it is "that form of vocational education which fits for 
occupations connected with the household," gives indication of how 
increasingly close must be the contacts between the teacher and the 



1916] THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE HOME 469 

home itself. The "model home" is, as some have expressed it, recog- 
nized to be artificial, and the "hub" of the problem is the "getting in" 
to the home, itself. The president of a southern college for mountain 
boys a number of years ago had a large sign made which read "Model 
School." It was hung on the front of the small building \Yhich he set 
apart for use as a model school. WTien after various efforts his concep- 
tion of what makes a school model departed more and more from his 
own original plan and when he came to realize that the "model" is 
never achieved, he, one might say, willed that some of the boys should, 
by night, carry the sign off and destroy it. 

A special reason why the home, itself, is needed to be used as the 
field for training is that it is within the home, itself, that the principle 
of economy can best be put into practice. In considering economy in 
relation to the home, one feels that the first thing one wants to get 
away from is a scrappy way of looking at either production or con- 
sumption, and that, in considering both the intake and the outgo, one 
does not wish to be draw^n into measuring either in terms of cash, alone. 
In a recent article in the Atlantic Monthly, Henry D wight Sedgwick 
deplores the tendency of science to concentrate attention on a small 
portion of life, and of luxury to set the center of gravity for human 
life in material things. The domestic science which does not relate its 
scientific findings and its practical conclusions to life as it is being 
developed in the home runs a risk of playing itself out on a plane which 
will lie apart from the deepest needs of the home itself. Miss Loane, 
one of the keenest observers of the values of the home, who had a long 
apprenticeship as a visiting nurse, wrote some years ago: "Thank good- 
ness! I have realized at last that food, exercise of mind and body, clothes, 
housing, and moral and religious training form an organic whole." It 
is this organic whole that one wants to keep in mind and the need of 
relating any scheme to life as it is being lived somewhere. 

Some years ago I was anxious to secure for a small group of women 
who were receiving widows' pensions from a private charitable society 
an opportunity for training in the spending of income, including, of 
course, some lessons in the purchase of materials and in the relation 
of one kind of expenditure to another. I went to the director of a prac- 
tical housekeeping center, whose fine aim is to train for homemaking. 
She was interested in the organizing of such a class, but said that the 
difficulty lay in finding the teacher who could hold the interest of the 
women. It was easy to find teachers to organize and conduct classes 



470 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

for young girls and for young women who were about to be or had 
recently been married, but classes for older women whose habits of 
household administration had become fixed required a degree of flexi- 
bility in the teacher which was greater than had been mastered by 
those who were available for the work. She went on to put a ques- 
tion to me, which I could not answer: Did I know how she might secure 
additional means so that she might engage a graduate teacher who 
could be used not so much for class room work as to be sent into some 
few homes to learn what the attitude of the homemakers was to their 
own problems of household management? 

I was trying to open the front door of an old building in which I 
had had a rather futile conversation with an ancient clergyman who 
deplored the fact that as populations shifted in a great city, the new 
people who replaced the old were ignorant of the things that their prede- 
cessors had recognized as having worth. "We want to hold on to the 
old congregation; the new congregation does not care as my people did 
in the old days," he had pathetically exclaimed before I came out into 
the hall. The door would not open, and I felt as if I and the ghosts 
of past achievements were being together held in that musty corridor. 
"She works a little tight" said the janitor, who had belonged to the old 
as well as to the present congregation, as he pulled back the rusty 
latch and let me out into the crowded street. And you see she always 
does work a little tight if one rests on the scheme, no matter with what 
care it has been formulated, and does not put oneself to the task of 
finding the man, the man to whom the scheme will be merely a means, 
not in itself an end; a man who will be ready to throw the scheme, as a 
means, overboard, when he as man comes face to face with some other 
men who have no use for nor need of his scheme. 

To return for a moment to the problem of finding a teacher for my 
group of widows, I do not, of course, fail to appreciate how difficult it 
is to make such a group realize the value of learning better methods of 
household management than those they instinctively employ. I do, also, 
realize that our efTorts to bring results must in large measure be directed 
to the training of the young people whose habits have not become fixed. 
But to get lasting results witli the latter group, to modify the young 
people's attitude to an accepted way of living so that the results will 
be enduring in their own later better ordered homes, there has to be a 
trying out. 

What is at stake is a home, itself, for wliicli some homemaker is 



1916] THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE HOME 471 

responsible. The teacher needs to keep her eyes fixed on the people 
who are to do and are at present trying to do the things that need 
to be done, not solely on the things themselves that she is interested in 
teaching someone to do. 

We were sitting not long ago, a small group of men and women inter- 
ested in the problem of wife desertion, to discuss how we might be more 
efiFective in our effort to protect family life in the immediate neighbor- 
hood for which we felt responsible. We listened first to the report of 
a young man who had been working in connection with the magistrate's 
court and had in the court been giving special attention to a study of 
the way in which the law was being enforced. His report was an 
encouraging one showing, as it did, that increasing attention was being* 
given to the apprehension and the trial of deserters. Then the group 
went on to discuss the eflect on the deserters themselves and on their 
families of the arrests and commitments. One man, who was very 
thoughtful, explained how he, a city official standing on the inside, 
had seen the arrest of deserters lead to an increase in the commitment 
of children to institutions. 

We began our discussion with the emphasis on law enforcement; we 
ended it with the emphasis shifted to the effect of desertion, itself, on 
the individual members of the families concerned and on the community 
of which they were a part. The first part of our discussion dealt with 
facts, whose proof lay in the collected statistical data, the last part had 
to do with the reactions of human beings to measures framed for their 
benefit and with what lay back of the call for legal intervention. There 
was no possibility of our gauging these reactions ana of our measuring 
the need of intervention by the use of the data we held. We broke 
into smaller groups, and carried on our separate discussions as we went 
out into the street. There was a feeling of futility as to the value of 
the conference, which we should not have carried away with us if we had 
adjourned after listening to the report of the first speaker, the student 
in the court itself. The law as a positive agent of reform would have 
dwelt in our minds to relieve that dismal picture of broken family life 
to which we had listened, if there had not been thrust upon us the more 
impressionistic picture of uncharted reaction to social effort and of the 
need of a more far reaching, a more deeply probing effort than had been 
employed. 

This small, inconspicuous conference was recalled to my mind while 
I was at the recent meeting of the National Conference of Charities and 



472 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Correction. Mr. Allen T. Burns was speaking, with a fine apprecia- 
tion of what it costs to be democratic, of some of the social legislation 
which had been promoted by us social workers, who ir our self-suffi- 
ciency have been incapable of thinking or too hurried to think in terms of 
the whole, and which now is being found to be inoperative; inoperative, 
not necessarily because the basis for the legislation was unsound, but 
because time had not been given to the task of educating the public, 
itself, to realize the need of change and of redress. The process must 
be slower, Mr. Burns said. One measure at a time must be taken and 
must be followed up to see what is the result of its enforcement. One 
must have patience and, one might add, faith, to bear the tedium of 
slowly accumulating results. One must find the point of contact. In 
trying to find the point of contact, one must be ready to submit to 
misunderstanding and to make compromises. 

To find the point of contact in the home, itself, and in finding the 
contact there to lose one's sense of being an expert in one's consciousness 
of being a fellow human being, is the democratic task that lies before us. 
In making that contact on the basis of mutual understanding, one may 
come quite naturally to realize what are the simple, fundamental values 
of home life, and may with patience and farsightedness work for the right 
relation between school and home, a relationship that may lead us along 
some path of finer action than the path of mere substitution. To me 
it seems that that is the pathway we must begin now to tread, we social 
workers who have been treading the dusty highway of social reform. 

In thinking of the enacting of life in the home itself, I was much struck 
recently by a portfolio of photographs of paintings of Eugene Carriere. 
"We must consent to life," Frank Jewett iMather-" says was Carriere's 
"favorite aphorism," and one that "conveys the spirit of his philosophy." 
"He," Mather says, "had to do with an eternal principle of fealty to 
the race asserted in the face of physical and social conditions that make 
such loyalty doubly perilous and fraught with sacrifice." One of 
Carridre's two Maternities of the Luxembourg rests with me as an 
image of that something which cannot be held by the race except 
through the medium of the family itself. 

For the mother of his art as she leans to kiss the child, not the one on 
her knee, but the one standing at her side, wears not the mark of placid 
acceptance of her great lot, but the mark of sacrificial yearning to pro- 
tect her child against the ravages of life. In the small, earnest face 

* EstimaUs in Art, pp. 185 and 193. 



1916] THE SIGXIFICAXCE OF THE HOME 473 

turned upwards to hers there is an awareness of the demands of love, 
which contains a promise of the perpetuit\- of family fidelity, into whose 
sharing the baby sleeping on its mother's knee and the third child, the 
one of an age in between the other two, who with back turned toddles 
across the floor, will be drawn when their consciousness of love's claim 
begins to wake. 

That spontaneous outpouring of sacrificial love is the simple reality. 
Like all simple things, its profundity escapes us. The holding fast to 
the fundamental fact of the value of the family relationship, and 
holding fast to it for the sake of the children who will grow into 
manhood, is the need, to hark back to the beginning, that was empha- 
sized for me in my visit to the Farm Colony. To rescue those lives 
would have meant to be able to turn back to the time when perhaps each 
individual member of that group had stood by the knee of someone 
who typified for him or her the age-old, fundamental claim of the home. 

Four new values have, as Professor Tufts said in his address at the 
Baltimore meeting of the National Conference of Charities and Correc- 
tion, to be reckoned with in any present consideration of the ethics of 
the family; "the value of woman's freedom and development, the value 
of the child, the value of sex and especially of motherhood, and lastly, 
the value of sound stock well reared for national life and for the life of 
the world." I do not believe that in our departments of household 
administration and of sociolog}-, and in our schools of philanthropy, 
these values will be ignored in the next quarter century. There may, 
however, be danger, a danger which Professor Tufts, himself, never 
could run, of working for a recognition of these several values without 
an appreciation of what after all the family situation as a whole is or 
should become. If these values are conceived of as being detached from 
a total value, which is the family itself, an emphasis laid upon them 
may bring a result which will tend to undermine family life itself. 

The end of the family. Professor Tufts says in the same address , is 
mutual aid. The healthful method that the family itself can employ 
is the method of cooperation. What lay implicit in that embrace of 
mother and child in the picture by Carriere was the promise of cooper- 
ation. The one was bound to the other not primarily, as one felt, in 
order that there might be a sense of possession nor an assertion of rights, 
but in order that there might be begun the continuing process of mutual 
aid. 



474 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

In the home, itself, there is an unpremeditated coming together in 
order that the business of conducting life may be furthered with mutual 
advantage; in the home the lesson of how difficult it is to combine, can 
be learned without conscious tuition; in the home it can be realized, 
without the effort to put one's mind to the task, how essential it is that 
one be a cooperator. There, too, one may gather wisdom to grasp the 
fact that organization of itself does not push our world forward. We 
move forward not through the logical application of our theories, but 
through the play of our minds on situations. This play of the minds 
on actual situations is what stands out for me as our present special 
need. 

The home is continually failing to make good. Our institutions are 
filled with the victims of its failure, our philanthropic societies are bear- 
ing the burden of reconstructing broken homes, our newspapers record 
daily instances of the failure of the well-to-do home to maintain its 
integrity. 

Though deeply conscious of these failures, I am also conscious of the ele- 
ments which make for success in the conduct of a home. The splendid 
preparation for studying results and for teaching method I long to see 
more and more definitely brought into relation to the home itself. As 
a result of practical application within the home, there will come a 
modification of method. The deepening experience will bring new sap 
from the root into the widely spreading branches. 

Our homes are not in peril of extinction, they are rooted in life itself. 
But our homes do need to be steadied and to be enriched by suffering 
a material change through drawing in greater measure on the resources 
of applied science. 

The burden of what I have said is: The material values of the home 
must be seen in relation to the spiritual values. The home itself must 
be used as the testing ground of our efTorts. The principle of cooper- 
ation must be nourished in and extended through the home. The 
home itself must win out, through its own power to absorb the lessons 
that the school wishes and is ready to teach. 

M. Edmond Demolins, a distinguished disciple of Le Play, in an 
address before the London School of Sociology and Social Economics, 
delivered in November 1905, said in closing that his only ambition in 
respect to social science was to meet two, three, or four persons who 
would take up the study of social science seriously and thoroughly, "not 
for an hour but for their whole life." In thinking of the great oppor- 



1916] THE BOSTON STUDENTS* UNION 475 

tunity that has been given to me, a social worker in the field of case 
work, to speak before you, this ambition of AI. Demolins has become 
more and more my own. The ambition is to see some one or more 
lovers of their fellows, lovers who have had the rich training of your 
department, lose themselves in the home hfe of some few of their fellow 
citizens, lose themselves in order that they may come back to you with 
a clearer vision of what the home itself is appropriating, what it is refus- 
ing to appropriate, and what it needs to appropriate of the vast store 
of opportunity which science and the arts are laying on its threshold. 
Such a study will be a quest. "Kabir says: 'It is the spirit of the 
quest which helps.' " May such a student be "the slave of this spirit 
of the quest." 



THE BOSTON STUDENTS' UNION^ 

MRS. KATHARINE OSBORNE 
Director 

The great problem of housing women in large cities is distinctly 
emphasized in Boston on the student side, when we consider that 
out of fifty academic and professional schools one only cares for 
its students in an adequate or organized way. With the supposed 
student population of twenty thousand, the housing problem be- 
comes one of serious importance to those who feel their responsi- 
bility to the student population of our great cities. I was told in 
Munich that Boston was the largest lodging house city in the world. 
Block after block of rooming houses offer their cold exteriors, with no 
suggestion of a "home table," such as we find in nearly every foreign 
city, and many of our own; so the prospective lodger is forced to seek 
her food in the cheap restaurant, with many deteriorating conditions 
surrounding her. 

' Presented at the meeting of the Institution Economics Section of the American Home 
Economics Association, Lake Placid, 1915. 



476 , THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

It was to meet this menacing condition that a group of thoughtful 
women in Boston founded the "Boston Students' Union" six years 
ago with the hope and intention of gathering together \i\ the student 
quarter the unprotected and inadequately cared for students and olTer- 
ing them protection, inspiration, and the necessities of life under sym- 
pathetic and attractive conditions. The experiment has been a suc- 
cess from the first because it met an acute need in a human way. 

The Club plant consists of two houses, built for homes, giving at the 
start the suggestion of home rather than institution. There have 
been added to these a number of small bedrooms and a large dining 
room, which have, however, never disturbed the distinctly homelike 
and personal atmosphere, which has been stamped upon the life of the 
Club by all most interested. 

The Club offers, for a membership fee of one dollar per year, board and 
room for a limited number at a minimum price, reUable addresses for 
lodging, the use of the Club House for all personal and social needs, such 
as callers, teas, and parties and the use of the kitchenette, where a 
supper may be prepared and served to friends in a parlor, which may 
be secured in advance; the use of the study, rest room, books, news- 
papers, and piano; tea free every afternoon from four to five, general 
information regarding opportunities in Boston; vocational assistance in 
the procuring of part time work, which was asked for by about one- 
fifth of the membership last year. IMany other opportunities are offered 
the membership in distinctly personal ways, but one of the most neces- 
sary and far-reaching requirements is met by the offer of board by the 
week or separate meals, served under the most comfortable and attrac- 
tive conditions at a minimum price. Once the doors were opened and 
the vital needs of the student met, it was only a matter of operating 
efficiency and personal qualifications on the part of the administration 
to gather into this group a growing number of eager students, who were 
anxious to be shielded from the cheapness of the broad highway, with 
its hideous discomfort and allurements. 

The first year the Club had a membership of 195 and served 43,334 
meals in nine months. This year there is a membership of 465 and 
201,961 meals were served in nine months. The Students' Union is 
run entirely for the interests of the student body. It aims to be a 
clearing house for all requirenients, both felt and unrecognized, of the 
students. It is hoped that here, perhaps, more than in dormitory life, 
the student by the very force of the freedom to which she is exposed 



1916] THE BOSTON STUDENTS' UNION 477 

from without will see more clearly the necessity for higher personal 
standards, not being a requirement of a curriculum but a demand made 
by the acknowledgment of dangers without and the deeply felt impetus 
from within the Club. The (?lub is not a charity, because it pays its 
own bills, but, as Miss Arnold says, "We subsidize it, because we give 
more than the student can ever pay for." 

The question of proper lodging being of the first importance, the Club 
at once turned its attention to the neighboring rooming houses, most 
available for its members. Later, were gathered together into The Bos- 
ton Cooperating Room Registry for Students, the rooming house regis- 
tries in various quarters of the city which formerly worked quite inde- 
pendently and without any very active end in view. The registries of 
the Woman's Educational and Industrial Union, the Young Women's 
Christian Association, and the South End House, although not supply- 
ing a large number of students' rooms, are now cooperatively associated 
and make the rooming business more desirable and profitable. 

The cooperation of the lodging house owner was lirst brought about 
by inviting groups of the women to the Students' Union for tea and the 
friendly discussion of the neighborhood and the welfare of "the girl 
away from home." As the appeal had to be entirely personal, it seems 
most remarkable that we have, in so short a time, five hundred and 
fifty lodging house women represented, who in greater or less degree are 
really interested in improving conditions. Meetings are held every 
two months at which speakers present questions vital to the lodging 
house problems. Discussions follow and a genial friendliness exists, 
which is bound to bear fruit in the form of more stringent requirements 
being laid upon the lod;;iiig house keeper. In our own registry, which is 
only for students, our women are not allowed to take men lodgers, 
and many similar requirements are asked in a leaflet which we circulate 
among the students and the lodging house keepers. A community 
gathered around one university may distinctly regulate its own home 
keepers, but a great cosmopoUtan city, catering to a great floating popu- 
lation will find its problems most difficult to solve when an attempt is 
made to regulate many social conditions. The long first step has been 
efi"ectively and firmly taken by the Students' Union in this direction, 
and now efforts are always being put forth to strengthen old successes 
and add new ones. 

We have in the membership of the Club students from nearly every 
state in the Union and from four foreign countries, who are students at 



478 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

thirty-five schools or colleges situated within a fifteen minute walk of 
the Club. Many of these students come from small New England, 
far Western, or Southern towns, who believe unfailing!\ in their own 
great abiUty to meet the world with absolutely no knowledge of life in a 
great city. Many come to us from the station, bag in hand, without 
the slightest notion where they will eat or sleep or what it will cost. The 
schools assume no moral responsibility for the students, finding it 
financially impossible to do so. 

We find the schools willing to cooperate with us in many regulations, 
formerly not required, regarding the conditions under which the stu- 
dents shall Hve, but there is still a great lack of initiative on the part of 
the schools. The Club, as you will'see, fills that great need for which it 
was created— to serve the students' need; to keep the standard of living 
among students high; to fill in as much of the life outside of the class 
room as possible with the inspiration for better ' things, always within 
reach; to guard the girl on all possible sides, and to give her that per- 
sonal friendhness, which is often the greatest factor in solving the prob- 
lems of youth. 

The Boston Student's Union differs from other Clubs and homes for 
students in Boston, where a limited number live in residence, in that its 
membership is generally made up of those living outside the house 
(there are twenty six-in residence) who find in the Club House and equip- 
ment the answer to many of their unsolved problems, together with ad- 
vice and sympathy, which many times the crowded class room and the 
overworked instructor cannot give. 

The Club would like to extend an invitation to you all to visit us when 
ever it may be possible and let us demonstrate our activities that you 
may judge of its value. 

It has been quite impossible to give more than the barest outline of 
the scope and accompHshment of this almost unknown activity. Many 
people in Boston do not know wc exist, whereas, in sharp contrast, a 
girl came to the Club one morning directly from the train, having driven 
twenty miles to the railroad from a little town in the state of Washing- 
ton, but some way she had heard all about us before leaving home. 

It is, after all, the great human social aspect of the problem of youth 
which we all have to meet. How well wc meet it depends upon our 
vision and efficiency. 



1916] HOME ECONOMICS IN THE DETROIT SCHOOLS 479 

HOME ECONOMICS IN THE DETROIT SCHOOLS' 

CHARLOTTE KEEN 
Bishop School, Detroit, Mich. 

On December 4, 1899 the first classes in Home Economics were formed 
in the Detroit Public Schools. The work spread from year to year until 
now every girl in the public school system receives instruction. Begin- 
ning in the elementary schools it was gradually introduced in the sec- 
ondary schools. Since then Junior High and Trade Schools have been 
established. It ^\'ill be in this order that this paper will treat of the 
courses. 

In the elementary classes the 4th, 5th and 8th grades receive domestic 
art, — hand semng for the younger girls and simple dressmaking for the 
8th grade. Domestic science is taught in the 6th and 7th grades. 

In the hand se^^'ing the little girls hem a towel and make a bag in 
which to carry their materials and later their cooking uniforms. They 
also learn the kinds and uses of cloth, measurements, how to make a 
common seam, two widths of hems, and various stitches, including even 
and uneven basting, machine stitch, over casting, hemming, etching, 
chain stitch and over handing. 

In the A4th grade a tal)le napkin and a simple kitchen apron are made, 
introducing the French seam, French hemming, gathering, sewing on 
band, making button holes and sewing on buttons. 

In the B5th grade hemmed patching, simple weaving and the darning 
of stockings form the early lessons in the term; a flannel or cotton 
skirt forms the major portion. In this are found the flannel or felled 
seam and the hemmed placket, with a re\'iew of the activities of the 
previous term. 

In the A5th grade the cooking uiuform including apron, sleeves, 
towel, and holder is made. This is mainly review, with more advanced 
work in planning the garments, allowing for shrinkage and cutting. 

Stocking darning and patching are emphasized in each term. 

Supplementary articles and Christmas sewLiig furnish additional exer- 
cises for the faster workers. The book for reference is School Needle- 
work by Olive C. Hapgood. 

' Presented at the meeting of the American Home Economics Association, Detroit, Feb- 
ruary 25, 1916. 



480 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

In the 8th grade dressmaking is taught. As many girls leave school 
at the close of their eighth grade, the aim is to famiharize them with 
sewing machines and the use of commercial patterns. A kimono- 
apron, middy blouse, plain skirt or gymnasium suit constitutes the 
course. 

Shelter and Clothing by Kinne and Cooley is the reference book. 

The aim of domestic science in the grades is to teach dexterity in the 
handling of utensils and manipulation of food stuffs. Emphasis is 
placed upon plain cooking with sufTicient rc\'iew. Simple experiments 
with carbon dioxide, water, starch, albumen, gluten, baking powder, 
and yeast are performed. 

Indi\ddual equipments have been put into about one half of the pres- 
ent kitchens; in the others the "group of two" method is employed. 
The equipment is for 24 or 32. The girl herself learns to divide or mul- 
tiply the recipes given so that her knowledge may be applied after 
lea\ing the class. Special effort is made to make the work as much 
hke home processes as possible and many simple breakfasts, luncheons, 
dinners and teas are given. There are various schemes for the serving. 
A simple breakfast may be planned. The ./eek before, the entire class 
discusses how much of each article each girl will require ; then each two 
girls plan their work so that no time will be lost, and the following week 
each one can set busily to work with no directions from the instructor. 
In this way they learn to prepare several dishes at once and have them 
finished at the proper time. Two napkins are brought from home, 
one to be used as a table cloth, the other for its usual purpose. Each 
girl sets her place at her own table, and serves the meal as if at the 
regular dining table at home. The meal is prepared, served and cleared 
away with every thing left in order in the 1^ hours allotted to the 
lesson. 

Another plan is to divide the class into halves or thirds or smaller 
groups. Menus are planned by one group to serve another group; 
the best one, according to combination and price, is selected, and a chef 
elected. This chef has the entire ordering and planning for her group. 
At some future lesson group 1 is served as the preparing of the meal 
passes in rotation from one di\'ision to another. 

Another method is a little more elaborate, when a few from the class 
are selected to be served, or some guest, probably their princij^al or 
teacher, is invited. The entire class works upon this problem at the 



1916] HOME ECONOMICS IN THE DETROIT SCHOOLS 481 

same time and plans a meal not to exceed 25 cents per plate. Usually 
four or six are served. 

A plan to have late morning classes prepare teachers' luncheons, the 
teachers defraying the expense, has been successfully carried out in 
several schools. 

Domestic science centers have been established in a large number of 
schools to save the children time and long walks. 

Visitors are always welcome and, in every way, especially by having 
visiting days for the individual classes, we encourage the mothers to 
visit the classes and see the work of their own children. 

A recipe book, compiled by the domestic science teachers in the 
Detroit public schools is given to each girl. These books are not for 
sale. 

The regular course in domestic science is flexible to the extent that the 
individuality of the teacher may be called into play to meet the needs 
and conditions in her section of the city. The allowance per pupil per 
lesson is two cents. Although home work is encouraged, credit at 
school is not given for it. 

The rooms are decorated with the government food charts, food 
exhibits, and suitable pictures. The Board of Education supplies a few 
reference books. 

In the super\'isor's office are many more books and exhibits of as 
many food materials and sewing materials as can be obtained and 
many of these exhibits are duplicated in the centers. 

Annual or semi-annual excursions are made to the bakeries, creameries 
and markets. 

Besides simple lessons in housewifery, and the lessons in cooking, four 
lessons in laundering are incorporated in the course. 

In most of the grade schools one period of 90 minutes per week is 
given to domestic science, but, in some, two or more 90 minute periods 
are devoted to this work besides the Junior High Schools. 

SECONDARY SCHOOLS 

In the secondary schools the purpose of the course in domestic art 
is both aesthetic and economic. Time is given to the study of the vari- 
ous textiles in relation to production, manufacture and cost, and taste 
and judgment are developed in the selection and use of materials. The 
pupils are encouraged to cultivate sufficient constructive skill in the 



482 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

making of wearing ai>parel to enable each girl to make her own clothes. 
Students apply in the domestic art classes the designs given in a course 
that correlates with domestic art. Only one garment is drafted. 

Sewing is generally given 4 periods per week with 2 hours credit. 
The text book used is Shelter and Clothing, Kinne and Cooley. Other 
books are used for reference. 

Courses 1 and 2 cover the making of underwear. 

Courses 3 and 4 include dresses and waists of various materials, 
household linens, designing, coats and millinery according to season. 
In millinery bought frames are covered with straw, velvet, silk, or dress 
materials. 

The course in domestic science is based upon a two years course in 
the sixth and seventh grades of the elementary schools and presupposes 
some elementary knowledge of foods and their preparation. 

IMeals are prepared in course 4, the class usually being di\ided into 3 
groups, 3 breakfasts, 3 dinners and 3 luncheons constituting this part 
of the course. Infant and invalid diet, household management, the 
household budget, cost and purchasing of food, housewifery and launder- 
ing are given. 

One year of either sewing or cooking is required for credit. The prin- 
cipal of each school arranges from 2 to 5 hours credit for each of the 
four courses, depending upon the number of periods devoted to the 
work. 

JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS 

We have three kinds of junior high schools, industrial, the Norvell 
and Condon; industrial and commercial, the George; academic, the 
Joyce, very recently opened. 

In the industrial junior high schools, three out of the seven periods 
per day are devoted to household arts and applied design, the latter 
subject being closely correlated with the courses in dressmaking, 
millinery and studies on the home. Approximately one-third of the 
time is devoted to domestic science and the other two-thirds to dress- 
making and millinery. 

In the B7th grade the cooking uniforms and g>Tnnasium suits arc 
made; in the A7th and through the B8th, underwear with Christmas 
work, using designs from the design room. Plenty oi hand work, not 
many garments but lirst class work, is the rule. One garment only 
is drafted and that on the material. In the A8th a gingham and a 



1916] HOME ECONOMICS IN THE DETROIT SCHOOLS 483 

cotton dress are made, Nvith a rexiew of some garment made before in 
simpler form, chosen by each girl. 

In the 9th grade a woolen dress or Peter Thompson suit is made, with 
simple millinery according to season. 

In the millinery the students learn to renovate old materials, make 
frames and bows and trim hats for themselves. Orders are taken later 
for hats and underwear. 

In the Norvell the order class is making a specialty of underwear 
and kimonos. Shop coats are made for the boys and sold to them at 
cost. These are made according to factory methods — all cut at once, 
one girl working on seams, one on collars, another on cufTs. 

Although the work is compulsory the girls like it. Only two have 
been excused and that was on account of their eyes. 

Wliile the girls are doing hand sewing, talks are given on shears, 
needles, thimbles, thread, materials — cotton, wool, silk, linen, — and 
suitable trimmings, also on factory conditions and inventions for textile 
workers. 

In the course in design about one-third of the time is used for sewing, 
one-third for household furnishings, and one-third for free hand drawing. 
The aim is to meet the requirements of the home in a general way. 
Problems are made as practical as possible and pupils are shown that 
designing means planning, and that it includes not only the decoration 
but the construction of the article as well. 

The time allotted is one period of 40 minutes per day. 

All girls of the seventh grade are required to study design with its 
underlying principles, so that a good foundation is laid for the work 
following and all are influenced instead of a few. 

Each half year one room of a house is discussed, its wall coverings, 
floor coverings and furniture, and the designs made during that half 
year are applied to the room in question. 

Good taste and simplicity in dress are dwelt upon and an effort is made 
to develop hand made trimmings for the dress made in the sewing room 
lliat half year. The costume is not designed but a commercial pattern 
selected that is becoming to the pupil; then simj)lc effective trimmings 
that give the dress individuality are plarmed. 

In the Condon Junior High School there is no special instructor in 
desigii but the domestic art teachers correlate this work with their regular 
sewing work. 

The work in laundering is quite extensive, two days every two weeks. 



484 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

The girls like it very much. They keep their cooking uniforms in order 
and for their woolen lessons borrow the boys' jerseys from the shop 
classes. 

In the 7 th and 8th grades the domestic science includes cookery, 
general sanitation, sewing, laundering, housewifery and marketing, with 
simple accounts, classes being conducted to the local market. 

The 9th grade work is similar to the work given in the secondary 
schools, — cookery, home nursing and emergencies, home management 
and household chemistry. Meals are served to the teachers, several 
girls from the noon classes plarming and cooking them and in this way 
becoming used to handling large amounts. 

At the Norvell Junior High School a cottage is located in one corner 
of the play ground. This was an old store which has had the inside 
partitions torn out and the rear changed to the front so that it faces the 
school in place of the street. It is being rebuilt by the boys who have 
built a fireplace and are doing the wiring and building the furniture. 
Floor plans were designed by the boys, looked over and, after some 
changes, approved by the girls. 

In the design room colors, papers, and Unishings were studied and 
planned. Classes were taken down town where they examined rugs 
and furniture from the simplest to the most expensive. 

The girls in the domestic science classes have a complete hst of selected 
kitchen furnishings, chosen for durabihty and price. 

Complete hsts of all articles needed are on file. 

This cottage is not a model but will constitute a permanent work for 
years, a new color scheme being employed each year, although the main 
furnishings will be the same. 

The 9th grade girls will use this cottage for their work in home 
management. 

In the Condon School there is built a suite of rooms, dining room 
and bed room, to be used as a practice house. The boys are making 
some very fine furniture — one piece being a copy of the colonial bed at 
Dixie Land, in gum wood. They are also making a lamp for the dining 
room. 

THE BURTON TRADE SCHOOL 

The Burton Trade School consists of special prcparator>' and trade 
classes. In the trade classes elementary training in j^lain sewing is 
given until tJie girl can sew sufficiently well to go into dressmaking. 



1916] HOME ECONOmCS L\ THE DETROIT SCHOOLS 485 

In the dressmaking she makes a cotton model for herself, the simplest, 
plainest kind of dress. In this she makes her own alterations, learning 
in this way the lines of the body. When complete it is put on a princess 
form and padded like her figure. She then picks out a commercial pat- 
tern, pins it according to notches and trys it on over the model. This 
insures training in fitting from the first; the pattern is then marked the 
way it fits her model. The teacher shows her how to spread the pat- 
tern on the material according to the grain of the goods and how to join 
all parts together. The dress is then tried on the girl for a fitting, the 
teacher fits it and shows the girl how to make the necessary alterations. 
The outUne is as follows: measuring, cutting, fitting, finishing 4 lingerie 
waists, 2 shirt waists, 4 cotton dresses, 2 silk waists, 2 simple cloth dresses, 
afternoon dress, evening dress, coat and skirt, evening coat or equivalent. 

This was conducted as a customs department but as the girls did not 
have time to do extra work on account of sewing for their sisters, 
mothers, and other relatives that part has been somewhat curtailed. 

Miss Cleveland in the Superintendent's annual report says: 

The dress making has improved steadily, both in the amount accomplished 
and in quality. A course is sensibly planned, beginning with the simplest 
articles and working up to very elaborate gowTis. Many of the girls enter the 
class not knowing how to use a thimble or scissors, and the quickness with 
which they learn is very creditable to the teachers, who make the utmost 
use of the girls' desire for pretty gowns and of their pride in making them 
successfully. 

Besides the work the girl does herself, she has a valuable opportunity in 
observing the number and variety of the dresses made by the class as a whole. 
This year the pupils have made more than 1000 dresses for themselves and 52 
for customers, though the dresses are but a small part of the whole work 
done. 

One of the finest features of this class is the unusually good social spirit. 
Clubs have been organized with committees for keeping up the attendance, 
for looking after the rooms, and for entertainment. The pupils are of all 
ages over fourteen and come from all parts of the city. Girls who have had 
advantages and can afford expensive material seem to take pleasure in assisting 
those who are poorer. 

The principal difficulty in making the work run smoothly has been in se- 
curing equipment and material as quickly as in business houses. In spite of 
this, I feel that the girls are getting a business training such as few schools 
can give. Perhaps the most distinctive feature of the training, however, 
is the remarkable feeling for style and color which is Miss Conlon's unique 



486 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

gift, and which she is able to convey to her assistants and to many of the 
pupils. The assistants are chosen for their experience with the finest d ess- 
makers in the city, and have so far been able to keep up to date in the class 
work . 

The pupils of this class have had no difficulty in getting positions even 
before completing the course. 

The girls in the trade classes are intensely interested and help each 
other. A little club they have formed in their English work helps to 
promote and improve friendly class feeling. This is conducted accord- 
ing to parliamentary law. 

They have a small amount in their treasury and the>' use this to buy 
bobbins, findings or materials for poorer girls. Just before Christmas 
they bought the material and made over 100 garments for the Florence 
Crittenton Home. They took two days time and made sheets, pillow 
slips, and baby garments. With the small pieces left quilts were made. 

Continuation classes are composed of cash girls from the leading dry 
goods houses, telephone operators, and cigar factory girls. These classes 
are not compulsory but a large number of girls take advantage of them. 
The classes meet every day but each girl attends only once a week. 
From 8 a.m. they have classes at the Cass Technical in salesmanship 
and arithmetic until they go over to the Burton from 11 to 12 for a 
cooking class. They prepare a hot dish which will supplement the 
lunch brought from home. 

SCHOOL LUNCHES 

In the high schools the school lunches are run independently of the 
domestic science department except in the North Western where it is 
in charge of the domestic science teacher assisted by a few students 
and the necessary outside help. There are a number of elementary 
and junior high schools in which the preparing of noon lunches is a part 
of the domestic science work. Aside from the teachers' lunches the Bur- 
ton, Goldberg and Lincoln schools provide lunches for large numbers of 
pupils managed somewhat differently in each case. In the Norvell 
School the boys are now workuig on an equipment for a lunch room. 



1916] 



HOME ECONOMICS IX THE DETROIT SCHOOLS 



487 



The sheet of statistics given below contains a compact resume of the 
work in Detroit. The data explain them.selvcs. The trade classes 
and continuation classes have been omitted in these statistics. 



Summary of Home Economics Work in Detroit Public Schools 



SCHOOL 


GRADE OR 
COURSE 


TIME PER 
WtEK IK 
MINUTES 


NO. OK 

I ESSONS 

PER 

WLEK 


KIND or WORK 


>• 

M 

a 

8 


z 


u 

23 

z 

17 


:S!3 
SB 

a z 

sg 

o 
z 


f 


4th 


60 




Sewing 


yes 


8314 


101 




5th 


60 




Sewing 


yes 


Elementary 
Schools. 


6th 


90 




Cooking 


yes 


5731 


22 

14 

11 






7th 


90 




Cooking 


yes 


45 


. 


8th 


90 


f 


Dressmaking 


yes 


599 

677 






Industrial 
course 


600 


10 


Dressmaking, 
M illinery , 
Cooking 


yes 


5 


i 

Junior High 
Schools . ■ 


Academic 
courses 


160 


2 


Dressmaking, 
Millinery, 
Cooking 


yes 


375 


1 




Commercial 
course 


160 


2 


Dressmaking, 
Millinery, 
Cooking 


yes 


150 


1 




9th 


180-315 


2-4 


Dressmaking, 
Millinery, 
Cooking 


One 

3-ear 


1384 




High Schools. I 


10th 


180-315 


2-4 


Dressmaking, 
Milliner^', 
Cooking 


S 




11th 


180-315 


2-1 


Dressmaking, 
Millinery, 
Cooking 




■ 


12th 180-315 


2^ 


Dressnaaking. 
Milliner>', 
Cooking 





488 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

THE WAR AND DIETETICS 

RUTH "WHEELER 
Department of Household Science, University of Illinois, Urbana, III. 

With most people, dietetics is not a science. It is a habit. It takes 
a world war, an effective blockade, to make even a thrifty people investi- 
gate seriously the nutritive properties of what we indolently blanket as 
food " refuse." German scientists are, with the help of the government, 
doing something toward changing the dietary habits of their compatriots 
and perhaps stimulating the rest of the world to openmindedness in 
considering dietetic possibiUties in animal and vegetable products now 
wasted. No doubt, with the forehandedness usual to that remarkably 
efficient nation, their chemists and physiologists are well in advance of 
actual dietary practices, but, at any rate, even if the results have not 
yet been tried out practically, the studies of substitute foods appearing 
in the chemical and medical journals are decidedly interesting. Changes 
in dietary habits are accompanied or preceded by careful studies of 
nutritive values. Every effort is made not only to prevent waste but 
to add to knowledge of foods and of food values. 

The Zeitschrift der Spiritusindiistrie^ reviews the uses of potatoes; the 
kaiserliches GesundheitsamP' studies the characteristics and the food 
value of bread made from rye with 20 per cent potato products added; 
the Chemische Zeitung^ reports (somewhat indefinitely) that substances 
may be added to potato flour which will make it sufficiently glutinous 
to hold the carbon dioxid and give a Hght loaf; 5 per cent of the grain 
flour of bread may be replaced by sucrose or invert sugar.* Sugar 
beets^ heated with sodium carbonate and acidified are made eatable 
by men or by stock. A microorganism has been found^ which converts 
cellulose, even filter paper, and inorganic salts [(NH4)2S04, MgS04, 
K2HPO4, NaCl] into reducing and non-reducing carbohydrates, volatile 
fatty acids, iodine-binding substances and soluble proteins. The organ- 
ism resembles aspergillus; it is widely distributed in the feces of nian 

' The importance of potato meal as food. Lanz, Zl. Spirilusind., 38, 199. 

* On the use of potato products in breadmaking. Arb. kais. Gesund. 48, 595. 

* Baking without grain flour. Fomet, Cliem. Ztg. 39, 388. 

* Sucrose and invert sugar as partial substitutes for flour in bread making. Jelinek, Zt. 
Ztukeritid. Bohmen, 39, 281. 

* The use of sugar beets for human food and for fodder. Ilerzfcld and Fox, Deul. Zucker- 
ind. 39, 885. 

* On tlie question of cellulose digestion. Kllcnbcrger, Zt. pkysiol. Chem., 96, 236. 



1916] THE WAR AND DIETETICS 489 

and other animals, in organs of ruminants, pigs and horses, in earth, 
straw, and cheese. 

After reading this, one is not surprised to find a nutritive study of 
straw^ which is said to be digested almost without residue by the horse 
and the pig. The straw is heated with 2 to 4 per cent sodium hydroxide, 
the soluble portion washed away, and the rest mixed with 20 per cent 
molasses and 6.6 per cent "digested crude protein." The mixture is 
eaten gladly and gives an increase in body weight, a positive calcium 
balance, and a considerable (erheblich) retention of nitrogen. One kilo- 
gram straw plus 20 per cent of molasses gives as much energy as 2.5 
kg. hay or 0.92 kg. oats. 

Blood may be used in bread, ^ increasing decidedly the food value of 
the product. The blood is kept on ice 24 to 35 hours, filtered, and the 
serum added to the dough together with hydrogen peroxide. The 
oxygen freed by the peroxidase in the serum bleaches and raises the 
dough, thus obviating any unpleasant color and at the same time avoid- 
ing the loss in food value that accompanies the decomposition of carbo- 
hydrate by yeast. 

Two interesting studies of the aging of bread may be inspired by the 
desire to avoid any waste or may be altogether unconnected with pres- 
ent dietary and economic conditions. Conclusions from the first' are that 
light has no influence on staleness, and that aldehydes hinder its develop- 
ment, while ketones have no such power; from the second, ^° that the 
question is largely one of loss of water in the colloidal system starch- 
water, and that aging is hindered by anything that increases the lique- 
faction of the starch. 

A good deal of work has been done on the digestibility of war bread — 
70 per cent wheat flour, 30 per cent rye.^^ It is so coarse that unless 
well chewed it gives diarrhea. Hyperacidity and tympanites are also 
likely to result from its use but the former can be corrected by baking 
soda (NaHCOa) and the latter by charcoal tablets, according to the 
investigator cited. Rohmann^'^ holds that soldiers' black bread is prefer- 
able to white bread; it is good for the teeth and cheaper; it makes 

^The nutritive value of straw, v. Heide et al., Bioch. Zt., 73, 161. 

' Concealing the use of blood in bread. Droste, Chem. Zlg., 39, 634. 

' Influence on the development of staleness in bread. Katx, Zt. physiol. Chem., 96, 288 
and 314. 
*" Changes in bread on aging. Neumann, Zl. ges. Gelreiden., 6, 119. 
"War literature, v. Noorden, Ber. kl.Woch., 53, 141. 
"Concerning the value of whole grain bread. Rohmann, Ber. kl. Woch., S2>, 105. 



490 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

possible the use of German grown rye in the place of foreign wheat. 
He quotes experiments in which dogs and mice have died on white 
bread but have lived on this plus the hulls of the grains or on soldiers' 
black bread. The difference he claims is due not to essential accessories 
in the cortex but to amino acids present there and absent from the 
endosperm. The use of fine sieves in milling results in the loss of 20 
per cent of dry substance and of 45 per cent of the protein of the whole 
grain. 

The use of yeast in bread has for years been much criticized in Ger- 
many because of the loss of food value involved in its use, but now it 
is found to be a valuable food in itself. One strain has been cultivated 
that is rich in fat: 17 per cent instead of the 4 per cent in ordinary yeast; 
another strain is rich in protein: 54 per cent of the dry plant. ^' Of this 
latter, 1 mark will buy 904 calories as compared with 623 calories of 
beef for the same money. The plant grows with great rapidity, 28 
grams dry yeast (100 grams of pressed yeast) forming 88 grams dry 
substance in two days when grown in peptone and sugar. This it was 
that inspired the astounding newspaper stories of an organism dis- 
covered in the trenches that would change sugar into fat and some- 
thing equivalent to meat. The yeast is described as a bright brown 
powder of indifferent taste and caramel-like odor. It is made into two 
sorts of tablets, one of yeast and salt only, to be eaten dry, and the other 
mixed with potato flour to be combined with hot water making a 
palatable and nourishing soup. Schottelius fed it to his own family and 
to prisoners with favorable results, and von Noorden and others have 
confirmed his work. 

Determann" in Freiburg has published A Critical Study of Vegetarian 
and Meat-poor Diets which is critically reviewed in the Deutsches A rchiv 
fiir klinische Medicin. The diet is recommended in a number of dis ases 
— gout, diabetes arterio-sclerosis, ophthalmic goitre, and others, for 
most of which the suggestion is surprising. 

A great deal of information concerning dietary conditions and dietary 
problems in Germany is contained in a study of school luncheons in 
Berlin. ^^ The number of luncheons served each month has increased 
since the war began from 150,000 to over 500,000 and the price, to those 

"Investigations of food yeast. Schottelius, Dent. med. Wocli., 41, no. 1^. Sec also 
Pure Prodiuls 11, 459, 486, .S64, and Bokorny, /'/. .Ir., 89, 473. 
'♦ Review of the book in Deut. Ar. J. kl. MeJ., 180, 33.S. 
" Studies of Berlin school luncheons. Fendler ct al., Ar. f. II yg., 8.S, 1. 



1916] students' contributions 491 

who could pay, from 10 to 15 Pf. partly because of increased cost of 
materials but partly also because a larger meal is now given. The 
plan is to give the child 40 to 50 per cent of the day's ration, that is, 23 
grams protein, 14 to 24 grams fat, and 114-92 grams carbohydrate, 
but both fat and protein are hard to get. Legumes are scarce and yeast 
is the best source of nitrogen. 



STUDENTS' CONTRIBUTIONS 

SEEING MOLDS GROW 

A Simple Experiment That May Be Tried in the Household or 

IN the School 

MARTHA B. JUDD 
Simmons College 

This paper was suggested by Professor Buchanan's valuable article on 
Molds in the Home in a former issue of the Journal. 

We all know that molds appear and we are familiar with the fact 
that they seem to thrive best in dark damp places. What some of us 
want to know is how they get all over everything. 

If one has a reading glass which magnifies three to five times, this 
interesting experiment may be tried. 

Experiment: Cut two thicknesses of heavy brown wrapping paper to 
fit the bottom of a soup plate. Moisten the papers by dipping once in 
cold water. Keep them moist by adding one tablespoonful of water at a 
time under the edge of the paper. Place a piece of bread on the paper 
and set the dish on the kitchen table while preparing a meal; after an 
hour or so, cover it with another soup plate and put it in a dark cup- 
board. Look at it two or three times a day to be sure that it is kept 
moist. Soon a few little patches w-ill appear, some with white fuzz, 
some dull green, and others brown, or even salmon colored. Wherever 
there is a spot a mold spore has fallen and is beginning to grow. After 
twenty-four hours, or sometimes even after twelve hours, the spots 
will have changed much in extent, in height, and perhaps in color. 



492 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

As soon as most of the surface of the bread is covered, break off a 
piece where the green mold is, and blow across it. A cloud of greenish 
dust will fly off. Touch the dust and it makes the fingers green. This 
same kind of mold often appears on the end of a lemon, for instance, 
and the powdery dust not only gets all over one lemon but passes from 
it to its neighbors by contact or by being blown through the air. It 
may have blown off a piece of molded lemon rind and floated in the 
air in the kitchen until it happened to fall on the piece of bread. 
This green dust corresponds to the seeds of other plants and like them 
grows, if it has moist food material. 

The salmon colored and brown molds spread in much the same way 
as this green one. 

It is easier to see the different parts of the mold plant in the white, 
fluffy mold. By looking at it closely with the reading glass one finds 
a multitude of white stalks and on the end of each white glistening 
stalk a round black ball or cap. By continued patient watching one 
may see each Httle rough ball spring open setting free a fine brownish 
dust that a breeze may easily carry a great distance, and each parti- 
cle of which may grow into a new mold patch if it finds suitable lodg- 
ing. This mold shows still another way that molds have of perpetu- 
ating their kind. It is not easy to observe this, but, by breaking the 
bread where the mold is thick and looking closely, one may see that 
each group of stalks grows out from a small runner lying along the 
surface of the bread. So long as food is available these runners grow 
out in every direction. Whenever stalks grow up, the plant anchors 
itself by thread-hke portions which run down into the bread. It is 
these threads which suck up food for the mold to hve on and give 
the moldy taste to the bread. A low power microscope will show this 
even more plainly. 

It seems no wonder that molds which have "anchors" in the bread, 
runners on top, and millions of spores or seeds all maturing fast and ready 
to fly away on every wind that blows, can easily find lodgment and by 
their growth destroy leather, cloth, and wood as well as our food, and 
that one single mold spore may spoil many dollars* worth of our pos- 
sessions. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

A CONVENIENT KITCHEN 

LOUISE STANLEY 
University of Missouri 

In most homes much time is wasted in the preparation of meals. One 
reason for this is that so few of our kitchens are planned conveniently, 
or with any real thought of the work which is to be done there. 

The kitchen should be compact in order to eliminate extra steps. 
The equipment should be grouped on the basis of the difTerent kinds 
of work to be carried out. There should be a place for everything 
and each utensil should be kept in its place. The place for each thing 
should be, as far as possible, the place at which it will normally be 
used. All of the equipment should be selected with the idea of re- 
quiring the least possible amount of care. Built-in furniture decreases 
care by eliminating floor space and leaving no place behind for the 
accumulation of dust and dirt. If the furniture cannot be extended to 
the floor, sufiicient space should be left below to allow for easy cleaning. 
There should be no unnecessary angles, and all surfaces should be as 
impervious to grease as possible, while at the same time of such 
material that they can be cleaned easily with soap and water. 

The kitchen illustrated was planned with these thoughts in mind. 
In construction it is perfectly simple. In use it has proved to be a 
great saver of time from the standpoint of the preparation of the meal, 
the serving of the meal, and the clearing up afterwards — always an 
important feature. The principal points which make for convenience 
in this particular case are listed below. 

The work table is easily accessible to the refrigerator, sink, and stove. 
The utensils and supphes most frequently used are grouped just above 
and below it. The side of the work table near the refrigerator is suffi- 
ciently protected from the stove to make it available for work with 
pastry. 

t The pass window from the kitchen to the dining room opens on the 
wide shelf at one side of the stove. In this way the meal may be served 

493 



494 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[September 



in one trip from the kitchen if everything is i)ut in place before leaving 
the kitchen. Through this same window the soiled dishes may be re- 
turned to the kitchen. 

The arrangement of sink and drain boards is such that the dishes may 
be disposed of with the least possible amount of handling. 

The built-in china press between the two rooms, placed just over the 
drainboard and the shelf referred to above, is a great convenience. In 
it the dishes may be placed after they are dried, and since they are reached 

with equal case from either 
room, they are then available 
from the dining room when 
needed for setting the table. 

The cooking vessels are 
grouped around the sink or 
the stove according to the 
place where each will be first 
needed. 

The refrigerator, while in 
the kitchen, is in a protected 
corner. It is arranged with 
an outside icer so that the ice 
man does not have to come in- 
to the kitchen, and can leave 
ice when the family is away. 
In cold weather this door 
may be left open, keeping the refrigerator at the temperature of the out- 
side air if that is desired. The refrigerator is raised from the floor to 
facilitate cleaning and the drain is connected with a pipe leading to 
an outside drain. 

There is a minimum of floor space. Even the stove is built up on a 
solid base to avoil the dust trap which usually exists in the space 
underneath. 




/, Laundry chute from upstairs with opening in 
kitchen; 2, sink with drain either side — under the 
drain boards arc cupboards to the floor; 3, china 
closet accessible from both sides; 4, shelf for 
kitchen stove; 5, garbage receptacle with door on 
porch; 6, built-in cabinet; 7, drop shelf; 8, ice 
box with outside icer. 



1916] A TRIUMPH OF SCIENTIFIC HOUSEKEEPING 495 

A TRIUMPH OF SCIENTIFIC HOUSEKEEPING 

S.\RAH T. BARROWS 
Assistant Professor of German, Ohio Statt University 

Not the least important of the victories of the war is that won by the 
housewife over the dread foe, hunger. As I was in Germany during the 
first year of the war I had the best opportunities to test the genuineness 
of such a victory, and I can say truthfully that I had, during the entire 
year and in the five cities that I visited in that year, plenty of good, 
wholesome food, and that the cost of living for me was not appreciably 
raised. I will not say that we always had all of the things to eat that 
we had been accustomed to have before the war, nor that we always 
had just what we might have preferred. As soon, however, as some 
article of food became scarce, a substitute was found for it, so that its 
loss was hardly noticed. 

As the Germans saw themselves more and more cut off from the out- 
side world and realized that they must depend for food on the supplies 
that were already on hand, or that could be produced in the country 
itself, they resolutely set themselves to work upon the problem of the 
conservation of the food supply. Proclamations were issued by the 
authorities, warning the people to be economical in the use of food. 
Newspapers, day after day, reminded their readers of the critical situ- 
ation. Attractive posters were printed to be hung up in every kitchen, 
calling the cook's attention especially to certain very necessary econ- 
omies. The use of certain articles of food, such as flour and cereals, 
and afterward veal, cream, and other things was restricted by the 
government. 

It was necessary, therefore, to make out the daily bills of fare on an 
entirely new basis, and this was the problem that the women had to 
solve and did solve with such admirable results. Careful menus were 
worked out, furnishing balanced rations, and using the food materials 
that were available. These were of diff'erent sorts, suitable for families 
of varying incomes. Of course, the families in better circumstances did 
not need these instructions so much, as their larder could contain a 
larger variety of foods, and they could afford to pay for experts in the 
preparation and combining of dishes; but for the poorer people, these 
suggestions were invaluable. Little booklets were issued explaining why 
economy was necessary, what food elements must be supplied to the 



496 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

human body, and how these elements were to be found. Bills of fare for 
several days were given, with directions for cooking the food and esti- 
mates of the cost for a given number of people. 

I have beside me a week's bill of fare, for four persons, allowing for 
two days without meat. Here is the menu for Sunday: 

Dinner 

marks 

Oatmeal soup 13 

Veal a la mode, cauliflower, and potatoes 2 . 30 

2.43 
Supper 

Fried potatoes 38 

Herring 40 

.78 

A recipe for each of these dishes is given, with exact amounts and cost 
of each ingredient. This is an unusually expensive day, as the Sunday 
dinner the world over is generally somewhat more elaborate than on 
week days. The average cost of the meals according to this weeks' 
menu is about 2 marks, or fifty cents a day. The following day's meals 
cost about thirty-five cents: 

Dinner 

marks 

Vegetable soup 35 

Buttermilk pancakes 45 

.80 
Supper 

Potato salad 37 

Sausages 40 

.77 

In the little booklets that I have are recipes for cooking cheap cuts 
of meat, salt fish, various dishes to be used as substitutes for mf-at, 
cakes with rye and potato flour. The use of wheat flour for cake was 
forbidden by the government early in the war, but as there was an abund- 
ance of sugar on hand, the people were encouraged to eat sweets and to 
make cakes and puddings, substituting other kinds of flour. As (here 
was a shortage of butter, the people were advised to make marmalades 
and fruit butters, and directions for making these at slight cost were 
given. T bought a gla.ss of the fruit butter out of curiosity to see what 



1916] A TRIUMPH OF SCIENTIFIC HOUSEKEEPING 



497 



could be made at the rate of about ten cents a pound, and it was really 
very eatable. In the following recipe carrots are used in making orange 
marmalade, at a cost of less than four cents a pound: 5 pounds of carrots, 
5 oranges, 5 pounds of sugar. I did not try this marmalade but I can 
well believe that a hungry child would find it very good. 

Of course the article of food that really saved the day was the potato, 
grown in great quantities in Germany, and a great favorite with the 
German people. Potatoes to a great extent took the place of the bread, 
which could now be obtained only in small quantities. I was in Berlin 
when the bread tickets first went into operation the last winter of 19 14- 
1915. The first tickets were of an experimental nature, and when it 
was found that the amount of bread allowed each person was more than 
the average person needed, the rations were decreased. As it worked 
out at first in Berlin, each person had what amounted to about seven 
slices of " war bread" a day. Later on, the supply was cut down so that 
it was only about five slices a day per person, though special arrange- 
ments were made to increase the allowance for day laborers or people 
who for some reason needed more bread. As far as my own personal 
experience goes, my housewife served such careful combinations of food 
that I never felt the need of more bread, and in fact seldom ate my 
entire share. The "war bread" is very nourishing indeed and one slice 
goes a long way. The following recipe for "war bread" is given in one 
of the War Cook Books: 

2J kg. rye flour j liter water 

25 grams yeast 100 grams bread dough (sauer-teig) 

1 kg. potatoes salt 

Caraway seeds 

A sponge is made the evening before by stirring together the dough, 
the yeast, the water and part of the rye flour. It is then covered and 
put into a warm place to rise over night. 

The next morning the rest of the flour and the warm potatoes, which 
have been put through a ricer, are added, and the dough is kneaded about 
half an hour. Then two loaves are formed, which are covered and put 
away to rise until cracks appear on the surface. The bread is then put 
into the oven and baked one hour in a moderate oven. 

In the first months of the war, rice and macaroni were used largely to 
help make up for the lack of bread, but as the circle was drawn closer 
and closer around Germany the importation of these articles almost 



498 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

ceased and the people had to depend more and more on potatoes. The 
fact therefore that the dealers kept back the stores of potatoes in order 
to get higher prices for them has worked a terrible hardship, and the 
announcement that the government is to issue tickets for potatoes now 
will undoubtedly be greeted with general rejoicing. The incompre- 
hensible thing is that it was not done long ago. 

Possibly a concrete example of a day's meals as we had them last 
summer may be of interest. Breakfast consisted, as usual, of coffee and 
rolls. I chose to have the larger part of my allowance of bread for 
breakfast, and was given every morning three small rolls, made, accord- 
ing to prescription, of part rye and wheat flour, and baked the day before, 
for the government, soon after Christmas, put a stop to the fresh morn- 
ing rolls that we who have lived on the continent have learned to expect. 
I was given plenty of butter and marmalade. For dinner we always 
had soup, followed by a roast or steak, with potatoes or rice and a fresh 
vegetable, and for dessert, a pudding of rice or potato flour, a fruit tart, 
or fresh fruit. For supper, eggs or cold meat with potatoes warmed 
over in some way, and either fruit or bread and cheese for dessert. 
As there was an abundance of everything on the table, it is easy to see 
that I was in no danger of being starved. For this I really paid less than 
in normal times, as there were then no tourists in Germany, and for 
the stranger the cost of living had no^ risen seriously. 

The work for the conservation of food was done principally under 
the direction of the "Nationaler Frauendienst" or "Women's National 
Rehef," with the help of chemists and dietitians. Public lectures and 
food demonstrations were given in all cities, and offices were maintained 
where cook books and menus could be obtained, as well as samples of 
the cakes, fruit butters, and other new kinds of food that were recom- 
mended. This office was also in some cases a kind of women's exchange, 
and was open at all times to women who were in need of advice on the 
subject of Home Economics. 

Of course there are always people who complain of hardships, and 
who are more interested in their personal comfort than in the welfare 
of the public; but it was my observation that the most of the German 
women took a kind of pleasure in this battle with starvation, as they 
had the feeling that they too, as well as the men in the trenches, were 
doing their part in the defense of their country. And certain it is that 
without the cfFicicnt cooperation of the housekeepers the sacrifices of 
the men would have been of no avail. 



1916] IS THE GROCER OR THE CUSTOMER DISHONEST 499 

IS THE GROCER OR THE CUSTOMER DISHONEST? 

PERCIVAL FASSIG 

We admit that there are honest and dishonest men in all walks of 
life, but it is questionable if any business man has more with which to 
contend, more favors to grant, or whether there is anyone of whom 
more advantage is taken than the grocer or the keeper of the "general 
store." It seems as if the people at large have the wrong conception 
of that line of business — no doubt they never give it consideration, but 
thoughtlessly ask favors of the grocer that they would not ask of any- 
body else. 

Perhaps, after thinking the matter over a bit, you will say, "It's his 
own fault — why does he grant them?" And the very next instant, 
should you call up your grocer, you would feel offended if he refused 
to send you two dollars until, say, your husband returns. Competi- 
tion is so keen and grocery stores are so plentiful that the grocer must, 
or thinks he must, accommodate everyone who pays his bills. Now it 
often happens that such loans are not returned for two, three, or more 
weeks. Would anyone think of going to a bank or to any other busi- 
ness man for such an accommodation without paying for it? Isn't 
the grocer entitled to some compensation in such cases? 

We know that the furniture dealer often sends certain pieces of furni- 
ture on approval that are in fact used in entertaining and then returned; 
and that the dry-goods merchant furnishes many articles of wearing 
apparel that are returned after they have graced "milady" at a recep- 
tion. In those cases the dealers at least receive their goods back; but 
the grocer must often give credit without the return of the goods. 

A few illustrations will best show what advantage may be taken of a 
grocer by his customers. No doubt, there will be many who will look 
upon these instances with skepticism; but there will be many who will 
realize for the first time how unreasonable they have been. Women, 
as a rule, do not wish to take advantage of anyone. Still there are many 
who will not report an error when made in their favor, but will look 
upon the grocer as dishonest should he unconsciously make a mistake 
in his own favor. They will retain articles delivered to their homes 
through error and not pay for them. In most cases, the subject has 
not been presented to them in a forcible manner so that they can 
see their folly. 



500 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

At today's prices and the cost of doing business, a groccryman must 
have a profit on each sale, if he desires to continue in business. And 
he must be honest with his customers, if he would retain them. In the 
long past, he could make up on one sale what he lost on another — but 
not today, although it is attempted by some. 

Let us take the average woman ordering over the phone. How many 
women know how to place an order for what they actually want? It 
frequently happens that they order one thing when they want another; 
this is especially true in cuts of meat. No matter who is at fault in such 
cases, the article is returned and an immediate exchange demanded. 
Instead of going to the grocery or meat market once or twice and getting 
an idea of how to order or what the store carries, they feel that the 
grocer should assume all responsibility. This costs money and some- 
one must pay for it. It also causes disappointments, chargeable, in 
nine cases out of every ten, to the woman ordering, though you can 
not make her believe it. 

There are cases, and many of them, where meats have been neg- 
lected after delivery: left in the paper for a long time, or in a warm 
kitchen; or the cooking utensils were not properly cleaned; or inferior lard 
was used. In almost every such case the grocer is accused of sending 
spoiled meat and is requested to give credit. It is not infrequent that 
the meats were not used until the day following delivery, no attention 
ha\nng been given them during the interval. These are actual losses, 
not only of the article itself but of the time in delivering, for which the 
grocer is not responsible. Meats are perishable and should be given 
immediate attention upon delivery. They should be removed from the 
paper and placed in a cool, clean place. 

Furthermore, the "return habit" has such a hold on some women 
that they seem to place orders simply to return the goods. A grocer 
had a small lot of specked apples which he sold to a woman at a greatly 
reduced price. No sooner were the apples delivered, than she called 
up and directed that they be sent for at once. The apples were not 
called for until the afternoon, and when the boy asked for them, the 
api)lcs could not be found. "Why," said she, "the children have eaten 
them." No, she did not ask for credit; but she did not offer to pay for 
the time lost by the boy. 

One old lady bought six bananas in the morning and placed them 
outside in the shade. It was in the fall of the year and during the • ight 
there was frost. . The next morning the bananas turned black. Those 



1916] IS THE GROCER OF THE CUSTOMER DISHONEST 501 

bananas were returned to the grocer and credit demanded. What could 
he do? Had he refused credit, he would not only have lost the cus- 
tomer but, as she owed an account, she would have deducted from the 
bill the amount charged for the bananas. Another woman bought a 
dozen oranges. Six days after she bought them she returned three and 
requested credit. It was granted. 

These are not exceptional cases; they come up day after day, and add 
unnecessarily to the grocer's running expenses for which somebody must 
pay. 

Another case comes to mind: A woman ordered a quart of oysters, 
and shortly after delivery she called up and requested the grocer to send 
for them as the oysters were spoiled. When the grocer told her "There 
must be some mistake, the oysters still on hand could not be better;" 
she replied "They are toodark in color to be good." In other words, she 
knew absolutely nothing about oysters and did not want to learn. 

Now and then you run across cases where women order and after 
delivery find that they can do without — the family has been invited out 
for a meal, a neighbor has sent in a gift ofifering, or father has brought 
in a few things from the farm. In such cases the grocer is called over 
the phone and requested to send for the goods. Or, perhaps the woman 
from the farm came in late and then the grocer hears over the phone 
"Mrs. Jones will not need the butter and eggs you delivered this morn- 
ing; and won't you please call for them? Don't forget to give us credit." 

Some years ago there was a flood scare and many families laid in sup- 
plies to last a week or more. One woman, who seldom did any bak- 
ing, ordered a large sack of flour. As the flood did not interfere with the 
delivery of supplies, the flour was not used. A month later she re- 
quested the grocer to call for the flour as she could not use it. And 
that woman was the wife of an ex-grocer. 

Undoubtedly, a grocer's greatest expense is that of delivery. The 
matter of having goods delivered has gone beyond all reason. Of course, 
it is the merchant's fault; in his anxiety for business he encourages this 
waste. A few years ago persons went to the store, selected what they 
wanted, and took the articles with them. Now orders are solicited and 
given over the telephone. Consequently, it is not uncommon for a 
woman at a distance to request the delivery of a single spool of thread, 
or a cake of yeast, or a bar of soap, or a loaf of bread, or a pint of milk. 
It is not infrequent that there is a boy or girl in the house at the time, 



502 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

who could easily make the trip to the store for the article desired, but 
habit makes the customer call on the grocer to deliver the article. 

Why, one must sell twelve spools of thread in order to receive a gross 
profit of ten cents. Do you realize what that means? It means that 
thread is handled as an accommodation by the "general store," and 
when it is delivered without other goods it is handled at a decided loss. 

Now let us turn to another side of the grocer's trials — the most dis- 
heartening, because advantage is taken of him and he not only loses a 
customer but makes an enemy. Remember, that such cases are not 
infrequent. For one reason or another the wife opens an account with- 
out the knowledge of her husband, though he has given her money with 
which to pay as she goes. 

In one case, the husband was building a row of flats and the wife told 
the grocer that until the flats were rented her husband would be short 
of money, but that she would keep the account down, paying some 
every two weeks. She did at first, then the intervals became longer. 
When finally the flats were rented and the grocery bill was rather large, 
she was asked for money. The wife pleaded not to take the matter to 
her husband as he had given her money with which to make her pur- 
chases. "Why did you let me run an account? You should have 
stopped me before it got so large." That was the thanks to the grocer 
for extending the favor. 

In another case the husband had a good position, and the grocer 
permitted the wife to open an account. After the account had reached 
a point close to two hundred dollars (through the- wife's promises and 
excuses), the husband and wife came into the store one evening and 
made a few purchases. The clerk asked if the purchases should be 
charged to their account. Whereupon, the husband became indignant 
and said he had no account. When he learned the truth there was 
a real scene in that store. The husband paid the account in time, but the 
grocer gained nothing; he lost the interest on the money and he lost the 
customers. 

In many ways the best solution of the charge and delivery problem 
is that adopted by some of the western stores; i.e., to charge an addi- 
tional 5 per cent for each account carried and another 5 per cent for each 
article delivered. This no doubt encourages cash payments and the 
carrying of purchases. Should not those who pay cash and save the 
grocer the cost of delivery receive the benefit? 



1916] A CONTRIBUTION TO EXACTNESS IN COOKERY 503 

A CONTRIBUTION TO EXACTNESS IN COOKERY 

It is extremely important that the busy housewife, for whom cooking 
is but one of many interests, should accumulate a few recipes that are 
so exact that failure to attain a certain result is impossible. 

In reality how few are the dishes that appear on the average table! 
The method of preparing them should be made not only exact but 
beyond the possibility of improvement when agreement has been reached 
as to the character of the dish desired and the money to be expended 
for it. 

The following is submitted as suggestive of tests that might be applied 
to recipes for standard dishes. 

It would be interesting to compare what has been found helpful in 
this direction by other housekeepers. 

FOURTEEN QUESTIONS TO ASK CONCERNING A RECIPE 

1. Approximate cost of ingredients, with date and locality. 

2. List of ingredients given in the order used. 

3. Method of cooking. Time of heat application, and temperature 
used. 

4. Time required to mix and cook. 

5. Amount resulting, by weight or measure. 

6. How many persons served? State whether used as part of several 
courses or as the main dish of a simple meal. 

7. Standards. How should the dish look and taste? Has it a dis- 
tinct and agreeable flavor? How does it compare with the best com- 
mercial product? 

8. Is it liked continuously in one or more families so that it becomes 
a "standby?" 

9. The keeping qualities when properly cared for, as cake kept in a 
closed can, or a boiled ham at 50°F. 

10. With what other foods should the dish be served? 

1 1 . Can the dish be cooked in advance and kept hot or reheated with- 
out loss of flavor? (Of importance in entertaining when one has limited 
service.) 

12. How may the dish be spoiled, or of what must the cook beware? 
Illustration: quality of materials, measures, etc. 

13. What substitutes may be made in materials if necessity requires 



504 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

and what is the effect on the result? As in cake baking, water for 
milk, or sweet milk for sour, dififerent nuts or flavors. 

14. Suggestions for improvement in materials or method. Could a 
better dish filling the same purpose be made with the same time and 
money? 

illustration: lemon cookies 

1. Cost of ingredients, 27 cents in December, 1915, Baltimore, Md. 

2. Ingredients. \ pound or ^ cup butter (less 1 tablespoon), f cup 
fine granulated sugar, 1 large egg or two yolks, 1^ cups flour plus 2 table- 
spoons sifted with 1 level teaspoon soda, grated rind of 1 lemon or ^ 
orange and \ cup lemon juice, 1 tablespoon molasses, \ teaspoon salt 
if butter is unsalted. One raisin or nut meat on each cooky. 

3. A hot oven, 350°F. to 400°F. 

4. Time, nearly one hour: to save time cookies are dropped by tea- 
spoonful, not rolled. 

5. 1| pound, or 30-35 cookies. 

6. 12 to 15 people, for dessert. 

7. They should be crinkly or irregular of surface, of perfect light 
brown, coarse grained and tender. Of decided flavor— not of spice, 
but of fruit. 

8. Yes. 

9. Several weeks in tin box without hardening. 

10. As dessert with fruit or with afternoon tea. 

11. Yes. 

12. By using coarse sugar, or too much butter, or too little flour; 
careless baking. 

13. 2 yolks make cake more tender. 

14. For result described, none. 



EDITORIALS. 

The Smith-Hughes Bill. The secretary of the National Society for 
the Promotion of Industrial Education sends out the following request 
under the date of August 11: 

The Smith-Hughes Vocational Education Bill passed the Senate, July 31, 
by an unanimous vote. 

This gives the Bill greatly increased standing and interest in the House. 
It can be finally passed in the House before Congress adjourns, if the friends 
of the measure will speak their desire with sufficient force at this time. 

Will you once more write all your Congressmen (not Senators), asking them 
to do their best to get it passed at this session. Although there is not a quorum 
in the House just now, a call has been sent out and there will probably be 
one in a very short time. 

A point which may well be made is this— The passing of the Child Labor 
Bill will pull out of industry more than 200,000 children. It is imperative 
that these children be given opportunities for vocational training so that 
they may become well equipped wage-earners when they reach the age which 
wUl permit them to re-enter industry. Add any other points you may wish. 

Please help on this final pull by writing just a brief note to all your Con- 
gressmen. Get others to do so. 

Here is an opportunity for a service to our country, the benefits of which 
can not be over estimated. 

Will not all the readers of the Journal respond immediately to this 
request? The American Home Economics Association has over and 
over again expressed its approval of this Bill, by resolutions and other- 
wise. 

A Press Notice. It is not often that the daily press so well inter- 
prets the purpose of an association of the type of our own as is done in 
the following article that appeared in the Chicago News and other 
papers last month. 

TAKING HOME MANAGEMENT SERIOUSLY 

Eight years ago the American Home Economics Association vas organized 
as an outgrowth of a special conference. Its president is a woman professor 

505 



506 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

at Cornell University; its three vice-presidents are of the Universities of Chi- 
cago, Wisconsin and Columbia, and its treasurer is of Harvard. 

With such backing it is not surprising that the association is active in mak- 
ing studies and publishing the findings of its hivestigators. 

The association has a helpful purpose — "to improve the conditions of liv- 
ing in the home, the institutional household and the community." In every 
day language, it tries to make home living better and to improve the man- 
agement of hospitals, homes for old people, restaurants and hotels. 

A monthly magazine is published by the association — the Journal of 
Home Economics. In it appear thoughtful papers by members of the asso- 
ciation and by other students of the subject. 

It is what we have come to call a "high-brow" e£fort to solve a problem that 
is farthest from concerning most deeply the "high-bro>v" section of our 
population. 

What the college professors can do is to start the rest of us thinking about 
the management of our own homes. What they can't do is to offer to you 
and to me the sure answer to our question "How can we live better on our 
income?" 

To tackle home economics in any other way than by the "laboratory method" 
is to invite failure. The college experts knew this. They want to get down 
to facts in every case. They want data — masses of it, streams of it. They 
want to know what you and all your neighbors are doing and saying and 
thinking about this problem of home management. 

How about co-operating with this American Home Economics Association? 
Why not find out v-hether it has anything of interest to you? Why not find 
out if you can help along its work? 

The address of the president and secretary were given and already 
there have been a number of letters received in response. 

ANNOUNCEMENT. 

Miss Catherine MacKay, head of the department of Home Eco- 
nomics oj the Iowa State College of Agriculture and Mechanics Arts 
has been chosen president of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion for the coming year. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
Journal of Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 



Principles of Health Control. Francis M. 

Walters. New York: D. C. Heath and 

Company, 1916, pp. 476. $1.50. By 

mail of the Journal $1.61. 

.\t last the era of "the new hygiene" has 
begun to affect school books and teaching. 
The plan of this book is an interesting one. 
It outlines very rapidly some of the essential 
conceptions of physiology, but passes on at 
once to the subject matter of hygiene. 
Many of its suggestions are invaluable. The 
use, by the student, of a "Health Record 
Outline" (somewhat after the fashion of a 
score card, but with no figures attached) is 
one of them; the discussion in connection 
with the "Daily Health Regime," another; 
the suggestions given as to the effect of dif- 
ferent shapes of chairs and of shoe lasts upon 
body development, another. 

Many of the suggestions given under 
"Health Work" are exceedingly practicable. 
Why should not the students in a hygiene class 
learn the value of urine analysis and blood 
pressure tests, of Hodge fly traps and of 
exercises for preventing constipation, by try- 
ing these things for themselves or on them- 
selves, under the direction of an expert? 

It is, of course, difficult to cover the large 
field of science and technology' required by 
a treatise on hygiene — however brief — which 
undertakes to be really practical. Small 
wonder that misconceptions and inaccura- 
cies occasionally appear. In the opinion of 
the reviewer, such are found, for instance, 
in the discussion as to the "need for those 
lacking in bodily vigor" .... to "con- 
fine themselves to purin-free substances" (in 
the diet), in spite of the footnote which con- 
siderably modifies this statement. Yet, 
after all, the picking of flaws in a work 
marked by so many original and invaluable 
features, so successful in tlie undertaking of 



presenting the subject of health control in 
the positive as well as in the negative phase, 
is but an ungrateful task. 

Minna Denton. 

Felerita. By J. C. Summers. Opcr. Mil- 
ler, 20, 1915, No. 1, pp. 42-44, figs. 4. 

Some baking tests are reported which 
were made upon dough prepared with fet- 
erita flour alone; upon others prepared 
with a mixture of 50 per cent of feterita 
flour and 50 per cent of soft wheat flour; 
and others with 50 per cent of feterita 
flour and 50 per cent of hard spring wheat 
flour as well as comparative baking tests 
with soft wheat alone and hard spring wheat 
flour alone. 

The feterita, it is stated, is soft and breaks 
up badly in scouring and milling. The 
flour is of a dark red color and contains no 
gluten, which accounts for the poor volume 
of the loaves made from it. Bread made 
from feterita flour alone was heavy and had 
a poor texture as well as a poor color. The 
bread made from feterita and wheat was 
somewhat better in quality, but also some- 
what heavy and poor in texture. Pan- 
cakes and gems made from feterita flour 
alone were heavy and had a flat taste. 
Gems and pancakes made from the feterita 
flour and wheat flour were of good quality 
and had only a slightly flat taste which was 
easily overcome by the use of sirup and 
spices. 

Kansas Flours — Chemical, Baking, and Stor- 
age Tests. By C. O. Swanson, J. T. 
WiLLARD and L. A. FiTZ. Kansas Sta. 
Bui. 202, 1915, pp. 135, figs. 21. 

In the first part of this bulletin the equip- 
ment used and methods followed in baking 
tests are described in detail. 

507 



508 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[September 



The second part of the pubHcation gives 
the results of baking tests and chemical 
analyses. 

The third part of the bulletin presents the 
results of a study of the chemical compo- 
sition and baking qualities of 19 flours from 
a four-break mill, and 26 samples from a 
five-break mill. 

In the fourth part of the publication is 
considered the effect of storage upon flour 
as determined by chemical analyses and 
baking tests. The work, which extended 
over several seasons, showed that, on stor- 
age, flours may lose 2 per cent of their origi- 
nal weight, the loss being mostly one of 
hygroscopic water. Chemical composition 
and baking qualities are otherv\'ise very 
little affected by storage. 

Proso and Kaoliang as Table Foods. South 
Dakota Sta. Bui. 158, 1915, No. 147-176, 
figs. 2. 

General information is given by N. E. 
Hansen, regarding the history, cultivation, 
and milling of different varieties of these 
grains novel to the United States. The 
publication also contains the results of an 
investigation of their use as food by Nola 
K. Fromme. Proso is practically unused 
in America as a food, but in Russia and 
India it has been so used for some time. 
The grain may be used whole, ground into 
a meal, or finely ground into flour. Reci- 
pes and suggestions for its use in cookery 
are given. Information is also included 
regarding the use of kaoliang as food (it be- 
ing compared with grain sorghums), and a 
number of recipes similar to those for corn 
meal or Kafir flour. 

The Nutritive Value oj the Avocado. By M. 
E. Jaffa. California Sta. Bui. 254, 
1915, pp. 395-402, figs. 2. 

This pa{)er reports the results of the 
chemical analysis of 28 varieties of the 
avocado. The appro.ximate percentage com- 
position of the edible portion is as follows: 
water, 69; protein, 2; fat, 20; carbohydrate, 
7; and ash, 1 per cent. The protein and ash 



found were greater, the amount of carbo- 
hydrate about one-half that found in most 
fresh fruit, and the fat very much greater. 
The value of the avocado .is food is due very 
largely to its high fat content, which is 
higher than that of the average olive. It is 
assumed by the author that the avocado is 
quite thoroughly digestible. 

[Popular nutrition bulletins.] Bui. Univ. 
Tex., 1914, Nos. 333, pp. 29; 342, pp. 
20; 344, pp. 12; 345, pp. 12; 347, pp. 19; 
350, pp. 13; 366, pp. 20. 

This series contains a number of popular 
bulletins among which are the following 
which would be of interest to housekeepers 
or to those engaged in extension work in 
Home Economics: The Principles of Menu 
Making, by Anna E. Richardson; Food for 
Gromng Children; Cooking Tough bleats; 
and The Uses of Foods and the Proper 
Balancing of the Diet, by Jessie P. Rich; 
Meat, Its Value as Food, and Its Proper 
Preparation, prepared by the Division of 
Home Welfare, Department of Extension, 
University of Texas; The Irish Potato; and 
Nuts and Their Uses as Food, by Jessie P. 
Rich. 

A Statidard Dietary for an Orphanaj^e. 
By xAdelle S. Jaffa. Sacramento, Cal.: 
State Printing, Office, 1914, pp. 28. 

This publication suggests so called stand- 
ard dietaries for children from 8 to 12 years 
old, for alternate weeks in the month, as 
well as a few extra menus for variety. 

Retail Prices, 1907 to December, 1914. U. S. 
Dept. Labor, Bur. Labor Stalls. Bui. 156, 
1915, pp. 397. 

This bulletin, which is Publication No. 14 
of the Retail Prices and Cost of LiWng 
series, consists of a compilation of statisti- 
cal data regarding the relative prices of 15 
articles of food in a number of different 
cities, for the years from 1907 to 1914, in- 
clusive. Data arc also given regarding 
bread weights and the prices of coal and 
gas for household use. 



1916] 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 509 



BIBLIOGRAPm^ OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 
Contributions to the bibliography are welcomed. Please send material to the Journal. 

Foods and Cookeky 

Detemoination of Ste^c Acid in Butter Fat. E. B. Holland, J. C. Reed, and J P 
Buckley, Jr., Jour. Agr. Research, 6 (1916), no. 3, pp. 101-113 figs 2 

Respiration Experiments With Sweet Potatoes. H. Hasse'lbring and L. A. Hawkins 
Jour. Agr. Research, 5 (1915), no. 12, pp. 509-517 nawi^ms, 

PP.?8'a-^782."' ^'''' °^ '^' ^"""^ '^""'^°°- "• ^- ^^'°^'^' ^'^- ^''"*^>'' 20 (1916), no. 10, 
Mealtime In the WUdemess. A. Fullerton, Amer. Cookery, 20 (1916), no. 10, pp. 783 
/84. Nummary of data on food requirements of some explorers 

PP.'^62r62r'^° "^^ ^^''''' °^ ^'^^ ^'' ^^"^ ^- ^''''' ^"'"- ^'''^"^' 2° ^^^^^^' °°- «• 

41 (i;rtt^43^^ '^' '"'-'^ ^- "• ^^"°' '"-■ '^y- ^-- ^- f^°<^-i. 

Concerning the Identity of the Proteins Extracted from UTieat Flour by the Usual Sol- 
A Method for the Determination of the Strength and Baking Qualities of WTieat Flour. 

P. m. Tt:2:^^^jx,^:^-^^^^^ ''■' '^ ^''''^ - ^^• 

.; c^^VnotT'r"^ ^^io °° '''' AmylolyUc Ferments of Bread. J. EflFront, Monit. Sci., 
5 ser., 6 (1916), I, no. 889, pp. 5-12. 

HYcrE>ra: and Sanitation 

^f'lS?!.!!^'""'^''"" "'" ^^^°'^ ^P^''^- ^- "^^^"^ ^d S. H. Ayers,y.«r. Agr. Re- 
search, 6 (1916), no. 4, pp. 153-166, figs. 3. -^ - « 

Modern Air-Facts Relating to Air and Ventilation in Relation to Health. J. F Norton 
Set. Amer. Supplement, 83 (1916), no. 2113, p. 10. 

Co^!mf pp 'xivT26o''''^^ '' '^' ^"^"' "'^'^' ^°'''°^ ^^"^'^' * ^°"" ^""'^°^ 
Rural Sanitation: Definition, Field, Principles, Methods, and Costs. W. S. Rankin 
Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 6 (1916), no. 6, pp. 554-558 

P A^^'/,'^^^fo'?^ °^ '^' ^'°'' ^"^ °^ ^^ Q"^^»'y- H- ^^- Harding. Amer. Jour. 
Pub. Health, 6 (1916), no. 6, p. 562. 

Some Obser^adons on Causes of High Bacterial Counts in Market Milk. H D Pease 
^w<T. /o«r. PmA. //ere///;, 6 (1916), no. 6. pp. 563-568 

riof<.T''"'^7'''^L^c^o' ^^"^ Inspection. C. E. North, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 6 
(1916), no. 6. pp. 569-578. 

P f'T'n^'^^'Tn'l!'' ^"' Knowledge of the Infectious Diseases. A. Arkin, Amer. Jour. 
Pub. Health, 6 (1916), no. 4, pp. 323-333. 

Colon Bacteria and Streptococci and Their Significance in MUk. L. A. Rodgers W M 
Clark and .y.ce C. Evans, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 6 (1916), no. 4, pp. 374-380.' figs. 5." 

The Bacteria of Milk Freshly Drawn from Normal Udders. Alice C. Evans Jour In- 
fect. Diseases, 18 (1916), no. 5, pp. 437-476. 



510 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

The Prevention of Minor Infectious Diseases. A. E. R. Weaver, Jour. Roy. Sanit. 
Inst., 36 (1915), no. 9, pp. 382-390. 

The Relative Resistance to Infection of Raw, Pasteurized, and Boiled Milk. Lucy D. 
Cripps and J. E. Pur\as, Jour. Roy. Sanit. Inst., 36 (1915), no. 9, pp. 391 .i93. 

The Etiologj' of Common Colds. G. B. Foster, Jour. Anier. Med. Assoc, 66 (1916), no. 
16, pp. 1180-1183, fig. 1. 

Cold in the Head. Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 66 (1916), no. 16, pp. 1201, 1202. 

Investigation into the Relationship of Flies and Diarrheal Disease in Children under 
One Year of Age in New York City. P. S. Piatt, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 6 (1916), no. 
2, pp. 143-155. 

The Ammonical Diaper in Infants and Young Children. J. Zahorsky, Amer. Jour. Dis- 
eases Children, 10 (1915), no. 6, pp. 436-444. 

Effects of Refrigeration upon the Larva; of Trichinella Spirahs. B. H. Ransom, Jour. 
Agr. Research, 5 (1916), no. 18, pp. 819-854. 

Remarks on "Colds" and the Influence of the Atmosphere on the Nasal Mucous Mem- 
brane. L. HUl, Brit. Med. Jour., 1916, no. 2885, pp. 541-543. 

Social Aspects of Industrial Hygiene. D. B. Armstrong, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 6 
(1916), no. 6, pp. 546-553. 

Physiology and Nutrition 

Clothing As a Factor in the Production of Heat Stasis. W. B. McClure and L. W. 
Sauer, Amer. Jour. Diseases Children, 9 (1915), p. 490. 

The Influence of Clothing on the Surface Temperature of Infants. W. B. McClure 
and L. VV. Sauer, Amer. Jour. Diseases Children, 10 (191 S), no. 6, pp. 425^35, figs. 2. 

International Catalogue of Scientific Literature. Q — Physiology. QR — Serum Phys- 
iolog>'. Internat. Cat. Sci. Lit., 11 (1915), pp. VIII + 892, 148 -f- 30. . 

The Nutritive Value of Boiled Milk. Amy L. Daniels, Sylvia Stuessy, and Emma 
Francis. Amer. Jour. Diseases Children, 11 (1916), no. 1, pp. 45-54, figs. 8. 

Gastro-Intestinal Studies. X, An Investigation of the Gastric Residuum in Over 100 
Normal Cases. C. C. Fowler, M. E. Rehfuss, and P. B. Hawk, Jour. Amer. Med. .Assoc, 
65 (1915), no. 12, pp. 1021-1025, figs. 7. 

Gastro-Intestinal Studies. XI, Studies on the Relative Digestibility and Utilization 
by the Human Body of Lard and Hydrogenated Vegetable Oil. C. A. Smith, R. J. Miller, 
and P. B. Hawk, Jour. Biol. Chem., 23 (1915), no. 2, pp. 505-511. 

Physiological Effects of .\lcohol. An Experimental Investigation of the Effects of 
Moderate Doses of Ethyl Alcohol on a Related Group of Neuromuscular Processes in Man. 
R. Dodge and F. G. Benedict, Carnegie Inst., Washington Pub. 232 (1915), pp. 281, pis. 6, 
figs. 16. 

Studies in Diabetes. I, Theory of Diabetes, with Consideration of the Probable Mechan- 
ism of Antiketogenesis and the Cause of .Acidosis. A. I. Ringer, Jour. Biol. C/iem., 17 (1914), 
no. 2, pp. 107-119. 

The Effect of Moderately High Atmospheric Temperature Upon the Formation of Hemo- 
lysins. C. E. A. Winslow, J. A. Miller, and \V. C. Noble, Proc Soc Expt. Biol, and Med., 
13 (I9I6), no. 5, pp. 93-98, figs. 1. 

The Nutrition of the New-bom Infant. Jour. Amer. Med. .\ssoc., 66 (1916), no. 19. 
pp. 1466, 1467. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



Luncheons at the Cornell Meeting. — 
The following reports have been received 
of some of the luncheons held at Cornell 
at the annual meeting of the Association. 
In addition to those reported there were 
held a Canadian luncheon, a Southern 
luncheon, and a Suffrage luncheon. 

The Pratt Alumnae Luncheon at 
Cornell brought together twenty-one of 
the big family. Mrs. Anna C. Hedges 
Talbot was the guest of honor, as an 
ex-Director of the School of Household 
Arts. The two Pratt alumnae on the 
Cornell faculty, Miss Budseye and Miss 
Titsworth, arranged a very attractive 
luncheon, after it Miss Lord told the 
group about the recent alumnae supper 
of the School of Household Science and 
.\rts, when the center of the celebration 
was Mrs. Delia Kearney, the faithful 
and beloved janitress of the school kitchens 
who has given twenty years of loyal 
service. There were songs for her, she 
was crowned with laurel, she was given 
the sacredly-guarded graduate pin, there 
were flowers, then a big book covered in 
the Pratt yellow, in which were the sig- 
natures of all who had contributed to the 
last gift — Trustees, faculty alumnae, stu- 
dents. This last gift was a little envelope 
containing four paid-up Thrift certifi- 
cates — $600, bearing 5J if not touched for 
ten years. 

As most of those at the luncheon had 
contributed to the gift, it was naturally 
the chief topic of interest but recent 
changes in the School were also discussed. 

Teachers College Luncheon. Seventy- 
five alumni of Teachers College, Columbia 
University, had the opportunity to renew 
old acquaintanceships and form new ones 
at a luncheon arranged for them by 
Miss Mabel C. Little, now of Cornell 



University, during the meeting of the 
American Home Economics Association at 
Ithaca in June. 

Dr. Andrews presided and Mrs. Wool- 
man was chief guest of honor, both being, 
as usual, the life of the occasion. Short 
speeches were made by each one present , 
telling of present positions and the work 
done since leanng college. All parts of 
the country seemed to be represented, 
and all types of work, from the experi- 
ments with ostrich eggs being conducted 
by Mrs. Jessamine Chapman Williams 
of the University of Arizona, to the stud- 
ies of satisfactory low cost diets made by 
Miss Florence Nesbitt of the Juvenile 
Court of Chicago. 

Miss Helen Louise Johnson told of the 
early days at Teachers College, many 
Columbia and Teachers College songs 
were sung, and the group finally adjourned 
after more than two hours of solid en- 
joyment, wishing that similar meetings 
might be held more frequently. 

Drexel Institute was well represented 
at the meetings with about twenty grad- 
uates. Many of this group met at lun- 
cheon on Thursday. 

In Connection with the National Edu- 
cational Association in New York City, 
several meetings of interest to Household 
Arts teachers were held. 

On Monday, July 3, the section of 
Vocational Education was addressed by: 
Mrs. John M. Glenn on "The Home as a 
Social Institution;" by Professor Bigelow, 
on "The Home in Relation to Health;" 
and by Mr. Henry Turner Bailey, on 
"Art Aspects of the Home." 

On Tuesday, July 4, the American 
Home Economics Association presented 
a program including Miss Cleo Murt- 



511 



512 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[September 



land, "Continuation Classes in House- 
hold Arts;" Dr. C. F. Langworthy, "Pop- 
ular Teaching of Dietetics;" Miss Nellie 
Crooks, "Fabric Values;" Miss Ronzone, 
"Teaching Dress Reform through the 
Schools." 

On Wednesday morning, the Manual 
Training and Domestic Art program of 
Vocational Education Section included 
papers by Professor Snedden, Miss War- 
ner of Cornell, and Dr. Harvey on art in 
relation to the schools and the trades. 

Wednesday afternoon, at Teachers 
College, Dr. Donald Armstrong spoke on, 
"Sanitation of Stores and ^larkets;" 
Mrs. Henrietta W. CaKin, on "Super- 
vision of Home Economics Teaching;" and 
Miss .\lice C. Boughton, on "A School 
Survey of Home Economics Teaching." 

At the Fifty-Third Meeting of the 
American Chemical Society, to be held 
in New York City, the Division of Bio- 
logical Chemistry will hold on Wednesday 
morning, September 27, a joint session 
with the Division of Physical and In- 
organic Chemistrj' to discuss theoretical 
colloid chemistry. On Thursday morn- 
ing, September 28, a joint session with 
the Division of Industrial Chemists and 
Chemical Engineers will be held to dis- 
cuss the practical applications of colloid 
chemistry. On Friday and Saturday 
mornings, September 29 and 30 , the 
Division of Biological Chemistry will 
meet for the presentation and discussion 
of the papers of its regular program. 

Titles for papers should be sent to the 
Secretary of the division not later than 
September 9. Abstracts should be sent 
with each title. 



The Santa Barbara Normal School of 
Manual and Household Arts begins its 
fall session with Frank H. Ball of Pitts- 
burgh as its new i)residcnt, thus losing 
its distinction as the only state normal 
school with a woman as its presiding 
officer. 



Miss Ednah Rich resigned her position 
on June 30, and was married on July 1, 
to Mr. Lewis Kennedy Morse of Boston. 
The summer has been spent in an .\laskan 
trip, but the fall will welcome Mrs. Morse 
to her new home in Boston. 

The .Vmerican Home Economics .\sso- 
ciation is grateful for the valuable services 
of Miss Rich in the past, as a charter 
member of the Richards Memorial Fund 
board of trustees, as a member of its 
council, and in many other ways, hopes 
that in the future it may still command 
the interest and help of Mrs. Morse. 

Brief Notes. The Home Economics 
.Association, and the work in general has 
met with a great loss in the tragic death 
of Miss Eva Benepel, who was drowned 
in the Kaukakee River on July 31. .\fter 
a year of efficient and enthusiastic work 
as the first woman county adviser in 
Illinois, she went to the meeting at 
Ithaca, to the N. E. A. in New York, and 
then to Washington, to get all the ideas 
and help possible for her new year's work. 
She seemed full of vigor and enthusiasm 
and of hopeful plans for the future. 

It will be difficult to find a second 
county adviser for the work she opened so 
auspiciously. 

Miss Ruth WaTdall of the University 
of Iowa has leave of absence for a year's 
study at Yale with Dr. Mendel. Miss 
Catherine Creamer of Ohio State Uni- 
versity is to give assistance at Iowa for 
the year. 

Miss Alice L. Thomas, who has been 
Supervisor of Domestic Science at Loni? 
Beach, California, is to be at the L'ni- 
vcrsity of Minnesota this coming year as 
an instructor in Foods and Cookery. 

Miss Lucilc Whcclcr who has been 
at the University of Minnesota the past 
year teaching Dietetics goes to Illinois 
for the coming year, as Associate in food 
work. 



Vol. VIII, Xo. 10 OCTOBER, 1916 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Ilomemaking, Institution Manajjement, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs. Alice P. \obton, Eliior Kftl-bah E. Baldwis, Matueing Editor 

Eiitoriiil Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel Avs'a Rarrows C. F. Laxcworthy Isabel Kly Lord 

Ex-OJicii) .\fem''ers—C .\TU\ti\sF. J. .\[a<Kay, Presiilcnt American Home Economics Association 
KuiiA H. (ii STHER. Chairman Institution Economics Section 
RcTH Wheeler. Chairman Science Section 
Neale S. Knowu.s. Chairman Extension Education Section 

Ci<ll,ifk)riilnr< — Tlie (llTictT';, Mcml)er<: of the C'niinril ami .-XcKivrs 



CONTENTS 

Pnu.ic Hkalth i\ thi: Past a\d i\ thk FtTCRi. ('. I'.. A. U'iiislmi- 51.^ 

-M \tiii:matics Appi.ikd to tiik Hoiskhoi.d Arts K<illuiriiu l-.IiaU 521 

Cost of Foods i ro.m Prison to P.\i..\ci; Hoti.i Mrs. Mrlvil Drwcy 527 

Tiiuht hv IIoi skiioi.i) .Vccointinc. ... I-'.nniid A . Wiiislow .5.>2 

.\ N'k.w Phasic of Extkvsiox Work in tiii. .Soi tii . . I-'aIHIi Iiv^lhiw luul Floris Citlvrr >M) 

i'liK Cooking \otk Hook Emma Coulry 5.V> 

Stcdf.nt's Contribitions 541 

.\ Soci.M. Wki.fark Stidv /->./•;. MiUhcil 541 

For TIIF. HoMKXIAKF.R 545 

Family .VcroiNT H( oks H. R. AiKirru.s 545 

HiRF.D Men's Mkai.s Emily Allen 552 

Two CooPKRATivr. \i;nti Kis 554 

Editorial ... 556 

Books and Liter.\tlrf. 559 

Bibliography of Home Economics 563 

Xews from the Field 565 



The Journal of Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics .Association. 
J2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.25. SI.NGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on New Yori;, Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable 
to the American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CHANGE IN' ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which the 
change is to talce eSect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

Entered as second dau matter at the Baltimore Pott Office 




u 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. WII oCIXJBKR, 1916 No. 10 

PUBLIC HEALTH IN THE PAST AND IN THE FUTURE^ 

C. E. A. WINSLOW 

Professor of Public Health, Yale Medical Sc/tool, and Curator of Public Health, American 

Museum of Natural History 

The development of the science and art of public health has i)een so 
rapid that it is very difficult for us to realize what a mystery shrouded 
the communicable disease up to a short half century ago. 

There is a delightful portrait in Hovorka and Kronfeld's Vergleichende 
Volksmedizin, showing how protection against the cholera was secured 
in medieval times, which always stands to me as a worthy example of 
the helplessness of pre-scientific medicine. 

In order to be fully armed to resist this dread disease a man must be 
equipped in the following manner: "About his body first a layer of India 
rubber, thereupon a large pitch plaster, on top of this a bandage of six 
yards of flannel. On the pit of his stomach a copper plate, on the chest 
a large bag of warm sand. Around the neck a double bandage filled 
with juniper berries and grains of pepper; in the ears two pieces of 
cotton wool with camphor; hung on the nose a smelling bottle contain- 
ing vinegar, and in the mouth a twig of sweet calamus. Over the 
bandages a shirt, soaked in chlorid of lime, over that a cotton wool 
jacket and a hot brick, and, finally, a vest sprinkled with chlorid of 
lime. He must wear flannel stockings next the skin, underwear boiled 
in vinegar, and, on top of these, woolen stockings infiltrated with cam- 
phor. For shoes two copper vessels partly filled with hot water, and 

' Presented at the Ninth .\nnual Meeting of the American Home Economics Association, 
Ithaca, N. Y., 1916. 

513 



514 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

overshoes on top. Attached to the calves of the legs are two flasks of 
water. He wears a large woolen overcoat sprinkled with chlorid of 
lime, then a mantle made of oilcloth and a hat of the same. In his 
right pocket he carries one pound of balm-mint tea, a half-pound of 
carlyme thistle and a half pound of sage. In his vest pocket he carries 
a bottle containing camomile oil and in his trousers pocket a bottle of 
camphor. On his hat he balances a tureen of thick gruel, in his right 
hand he carries a shrub of juniper, and in his left hand an acacia branch. 
Strapped to his body is a small wagon which he pulls after him and in 
which there are fifteen yards of flannel, a boiling kettle, ten scrubbing 
brushes, eighteen bricks, two hides and a comfort stool. He must wear 
a mask made of curly-mint paste and keep a quarter of a pound of 
calamus in his mouth." 

There is a long gap between this fantastic witch doctor and the 
physicians and engineers who stamped out yellow fever at Havana and 
at Panama; but it is a gap which has been bridged only during the last 
half century. 

Modern public health began with Sir Edwin Chadwick's report as 
Secretary of the Poor Law Commission on '.he Sanitary Condition of 
the Laboring Population of Great Britain, published in 1842. The 
appointment of the famous Health of Towns Commission followed in 
1843 and the organization of a General Board of Health in 1848. An 
even greater figure in the history of public health is that of Sir John 
Simon, appointed Health Ofiicer of London in 1848 and Central Medical 
Officer of Great Britain in 1855. His administration of the latter office 
was marked by an extraordinary development of English sanitary law. 
More important even than these legislative enactments was Simon's 
influence as a molder of public opinion. Yet in all this pioneer work of 
public health administration and education he had really no definite 
knowledge to draw upon, only an instinctive dread of filth as the possi- 
ble mother of disease. 

Our real knowledge of what particular kind of filth to fear we owe, cf 
course, to Pasteur. In 1865 the greatest of Frenchmen, then in the 
midst of his researches on fermentation, had but just begun to surmise 
the relation between these humble problems and "the impenetrable 
mystery of life and death." In that year he was called on to investigate 
the terrible disease of silkworms which was ruining this important indus- 
try of southern France. He discovered the cause of this communicable 
disease of insects, as he had previously found the inciting agent of 



1916] PUBLIC HEALTH IN THE PAST AND FUTURE 515 

diseased or abnormally fermented wines, to be a microbe; and it was 
this discovery which opened up the whole world of the "infinitely Uttle" 
and founded the modern art of public health. 

Koch and Lister and a score of lesser pioneers followed the trail 
blazed by Pasteur, so that during the ten years between 1880 and 1890 
the germ theory was firmly estabhshed and the germs of a dozen specific 
diseases isolated and identified. 

The problem of the next decade was the discovery of the modes of 
vehicles of disease, the pathw^ays by which parasitic microbes pass from 
one human host to another. The danger from water supplies and milk 
supplies was made manifest by the work of the epidemiologists of the 
early nineties, the role played by insect carriers was revealed by Ross 
and Manson, by Bignami and Grassi, and by our own Reed and Carroll 
and Lazear and Agramonte and Gorgas in the latter years of the decade. 
It was only during the first years of the present century that the impor- 
tance of personal contact, the third great mode of disease transmission, 
gained full recognition. 

These discoveries at last laid a basis for definite and purposeful con- 
trol of the external causes of disease, and the Sanitation of the Environ- 
ment became the first task of public health. Chadwick and Simon were 
essentially correct in the instinct which inspired them to the cleaning 
up of gross masses of material filth, the introduction of sewerage systems, 
the disposal of sewage, the purification of water supphes, and the clean- 
ing of the streets and yards in towns and villages. So when General 
Goigas went to Panama the most pressing need was the sanitation of 
the surroundings. Pure water suppUes must be introduced, sewers must 
be built, mosquito breeding marshes must be drained, as a primary 
essential in the pubhc health campaign. 

After a while, however, in any given community we find that these 
fundamental engineering tasks have been performed. The environment 
is made reasonably secure, and the great epidemics disappear that were 
once due to polluted water or to insect carriers of disease. Then the 
predominant problems of the health administrator take on a different 
nature. He finds that personal contact is coming to be the chief factor 
in disease transmission. People, rather than things, occupy his atten- 
tion. He enters on the second phase of public health, the Control of 
Community Infections. 

This type of public health work rested on the researches of the labo- 
ratory worker, and it is the bacteriologist rather than the sanitary 



516 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

engineer who must carry it out in practice. Hand in hand with the 
discoveries which made it possible, by purifying foods, destroying insects, 
and limiting contact, to break the chain of disease transmission between 
one man and another, there has gone the development of the art of 
vaccine and serum therapy, by which even those germs which gain a 
foothold within the citadel of the body may be met and conquered. 
Beginning with Pasteur's demonstration of his vaccine for anthrax at 
the farm of Pouilly le Fort on May 5, 1881, this field of research gave us 
diphtheria and tetanus antitoxins, rabies and typhoid vaccines, menin- 
gitis serum and finally the serum for pneumonia. 

The detection of early cases of disease, and of carriers, the isolation 
of the infected, so as to break the chain of contact between one indi- 
vidual and another, the production of artificial immunity against spe- 
cific diseases by the use of sera and vaccines, these are the principal 
weapons of the sanitarian in fighting against these community infections, 
which rightly occupy a predominant place in the pubhc health program 
of the present day. 

Gradually however the spread of communicable disease by contact 
is being checked just as the epidemics due tc wholesale water pollution 
or to filth-bred pests were eliminated by public sanitation. Already 
scarlet fever and typhoid fever and even diphtheria are falling to the 
place of relatively unimportant factors in the general death rate. The 
control of community infections and the sanitation of the environment 
must of course be kept up, but they become comparatively simple and 
automatic functions. The progressive public health official turns to 
the newer and greater possibilities revealed by the third phase of disease 
prevention — the Hygienic Education of the Individual. 

If a judicious sanitarian were to plan an entirely new department of 
health, wholly unhampered by any organization inherited from the past, 
he would no doubt begin by a study of vital statistics. He would find 
out what people die of in largest numbers, and which of the principal 
causes of death are preventable and by what means. Then he would 
organize his department so that it could attack those diseases which 
promised the largest results in life saving. 

Such an inquiry would show that there are seven causes of death 
which exceed all others in deadliness. In 1914, for example, there died 
in the Registration Area of the United States from heart di.scase, 99,534 
persons; from tuberculosis, 96,90.^ persons; from pneumonia. 83.804 per- 
sons; from IJright's di.sease and nephritis, 67,545 persons; from cancer 



1916] PUBLIC HEALTH IN THE PAST AND FUTURE 517 

and other malignant tumors, 52,420 persons; from diarrhea and ente- 
ritis, 52,407 persons, and from apoplexy, 51,272 persons. 

These, as the largest single items in the death rate, are the natural 
targets of the sanitarian. There are few of them that are not, in a 
greater or less degree, amenable to proper measures of control; but such 
measures must involve popular education in individual hygiene rather 
than any wholesale administrative action. The causes of these quanti- 
tatively important maladies are to be sought for the most part not in 
the envirormient but within the body itself; and they can be controlled 
only by changing the daily habits of the individual. 

The campaigns against tuberculosis and infant mortality are striking 
illustrations of the sort of prevention I have in mind. Environmental 
factors play an important part in the spread of tuberculosis; the general 
ventilation of factories and the elimination of mineral and metallic dusts 
are vital and today generally neglected fields of sanitation. The check- 
ing of contact infection by the control of the careless consumptive is also 
an essential part of the campaign against tuberculosis. The most im- 
portant element in the antituberculosis campaign is, however, the detec- 
tion of the incipient case and the securing, in sanatoria or at home, of 
a routine of daily hygienic living. This means popular education of 
the individual and provision for clinical examination, a wholly new type 
of public health work essentially different in its basic principles from 
the control of widespread community epidemics. 

We pass from the physical environment to the community, and from 
the community to the individual, in our search for the subtler and more 
fundamental causes of disease. The campaign against infant mortality 
is another fully developed example of the new public health. Milk 
stations were in many instances founded, as the name impHes, primarily 
for the distribution of pure milk. Today it is recognized that the 
success of an infant welfare station depends, not on the number of quarts 
of milk distributed, but on the number of mothers persuaded to nurse 
their own babies. The milk station has become a baby clinic, an edu- 
cational center for the instruction of the individual mother in the details 
of infant care. 

We are beginning at last to realize in practice the ideals set forth by 
Sir John Simon with remarkable prophetic vision, when he wrote in 1866: 

Long before our modern codes of public sanitary law had begun to shape 
themselves, elaborate counsels of personal hygiene had become current in the 



518 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

world; counsels, as to the ways and habits of life which would most conduce 
to healthful longevity; counsels, above all, for moderation in life — "the rule 
of not too much;" and those counsels for personal self-government, enforced 
from age to age by the evergrowing common experience of mankind, are not 
now to be deemed superfluous because boards of local government have 
arisen. In relation to their union, and to the many personal influences which 
are hereditary — in relation to eating and drinking — in relation to work and 
repose and recreation for mind and body — in relation to the charge of infancy, 
and to proper differences of regimen for the different after periods of life — 
there are hygienic rules, perhaps not less important to mankmd than the 
rules which constitute local authorities. 

There are general law^s of personal hygiene which are more or less 
applicable to all normal individuals. Food, fresh air, exercise and rest, 
all in due moderation, are the pillars of the temple of health. Special 
rules are necessary however for those whose functions are deranged. 
There is what might be called a pathological hygiene as well as the 
normal hygiene. In order that the individuals who are on the border 
line of disease, the most promising cases for preventive care, may be 
detected, there must be more or less widely organized provision for 
Medical Examination, as important a factor as education in the public 
health of the future. 

It requires medical examination to detect the incipient consumptive 
at the hopeful early stage. It requires medical examination to adjust 
the general principles of infant hygiene to the need of the individual 
baby; and in many directions the attention of public health workers is 
being directed toward the good to be accomplished by medical diagnosis 
and prompt preventive treatment of incipient disease. 

Of the 100,000 deaths from heart disease which constitute the largest 
single item in the death rate it is estimated that over one-fifth are due 
to infections contracted in early life, for the most part by way of the 
teeth or the tonsils. Such infections are not preventable by measures 
of general sanitation or to a material extent by the measures of isolation 
and disinfection applied to ordinary communicable diseases. They are 
preventable, however, by medical examination to detect diseased teeth 
or tonsils, and by securing for each individual the appropriate dental or 
surgical care. 

Cancer too must be included in the scope of the health department 
of the future. It is true that we have no satisfactory knowledge of the 
etiology of this growing scourge, and no medicine to check its course. 



I 



1916] PUBLIC HEALTH IN THE PAST AND FUTURE 519 

We have, however, in the prompt removal of the growth in its early- 
stages, a weapon so simple and efficient that its use should be inculcated 
in a definite and organized fashion by all departments of health seriously 
bent on saving a maximum of lives. Once more you will note medical 
examination and the preventive care of the individual are the only 
means by which our knowledge can be effectively applied. 

Let me ask you to recall what has taken place in the development of 
the medical inspection of school children and to consider whether it 
does not contain a lesson as to the relation between the medical pro- 
fession and the adult citizen as well. School physicians were first 
appointed for one simple purpose, to detect cases of communicable 
disease, to protect one child from infection derived from another, a 
police health function of the older type. As soon as actual work began 
however it was evident to physicians and nurses that there were other 
evils much more common and in the aggregate more serious than com- 
municable diseases. They began to find defective eyes and decayed 
teeth and enlarged tonsils. Today nine-tenths of the time of the medi- 
cal school inspector is spent, not on protecting one child against another, 
but in the more paternalistic task of helping each child to attain his 
own maximum of physical health and efficiency. 

It may be argued that this is not public health but private medicine; 
and it is quite certain that the tendencies of the day do indeed involve 
a profound readjustment of the relations between the medical profession 
and the public. Modern medicine has wonderful powers at its dis- 
posal. The important question is, where the energies of the physician 
can best be applied. It is to the interest of the patient that he should 
receive attention at the time when he can reap the largest results. It is 
to the interest of the physician that he should bring his knowledge to 
bear at the time when he can produce such results with the greatest 
certainty. This means medical attention before and not after the de- 
velopment of acute disease. It means prevention; and preventive care 
is much more difficult to secure by private initiative than by some form 
of communal organization. 

I am not concerned at present with the precise machinery by which 
this readjustment is to be worked out. We see, however, that public 
health authorities are necessarily and inevitably reaching out for the 
most effective means of controlling the largest causes of death, and that 
these means include medical examination and general and individual 
education. The fundamental idea of applying medical knowledge as a 



520 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

preventive rather than a cure is unquestionably a sound one; and as I 
notice the growth of school cUnics, tuberculosis clinics, dental clinics, 
venereal clinics and infant welfare stations, I feel confident that some- 
how or other it will prevail. It is for us to see that the details of this 
development are so controlled as to protect the legitimate interests of 
the medical profession and to secure for the public the maximum of 
efficient service. 

The achievements of public health in the past are among the most 
brilliant chapters in the history of the human race. The reduction in 
four diseases alone, tuberculosis, diphtheria, typhoid fever and diarrhea, 
in the last fifteen years, amounts to over 100,000 lives a year saved in 
the Registration Area of the United States. The reduction of 40 per 
cent in the general death rate of New York City in the last 20 years 
means that every 24 hours the greater city has 200 deathbeds instead of 
330. When Dr. Hermann M. Biggs, who built up the great health 
department of New York City, became State Commissioner of New 
York in 1914, he took as his motto the words: "Public Health is Pur- 
chasable. Twenty-five Thousand lives can be Saved in New York 
State Within the Next Five Years." At the end of the first complete 
year of work of the reorganized department. Dr. Biggs could report 
the following results: 

About 4000 lives were saved as compared with the average death rates 
occurring in the three-year period preceding 1913. 

The general death rate was the lowest in the history of the State. 

The infant death rate was the lowest in the history of the State. 

The death rate from tuberculosis was the lowest in the history of the State. 

The death rate from typhoid fever was the lowest in the history of the State. 

The death rate from dii)htheria was the lowest in the history of the State. 

The death rate from measles was the lowest in the history of the State. 

The death rate from scarlet fever was the lowest in the history of the State. 

The death rate from whooping cough was the lowest in the history of the 
State. 

It is indeed true that health is today very largely an attainable ideal; 
as we go on from the cleaning up of the physical environment, and the 
checking of community epidemics, to the control of the subtle beginnings 
of disease within the body of the individual, we shall find that even the 
achievements of the past and present are but the harbingers of a widei 
control of the forces of disease and dt-ath than that of which even the 
most hopeful of us now dare to dream. 



1916] MATHEMATICS APPLIED TO THE HOUSEHOLD ARTS 521 

MATHEMATICS APPLIED TO THE HOUSEHOLD ARTS' 

KATHARINE F. BALL 
Plainfield High School, Plainfidd, New Jersey 

A diligent search in mathematics textbooks that offer even the slight- 
est promise of the application of mathematics to domestic arts reveals 
how little attempt has been made to discover the part that mathematics 
plays in what has come to be considered peculiarly "Woman's Sphere." 
This is not because the domestic arts do not offer an opportunity for 
the application of mathematics, but because of general social and edu- 
cational conditions that have affected the kind of training given to girls. 

During the past few years scattering problems on foods and dress- 
making have crept into some of the so-called practical arithmetics and 
algebras, but there has been little attempt to gather such problems 
together into a systematic course for girls. 

That is what we have been trying to do in our course in household 
mathematics in the Plainfield High School. The aim of this course is 
twofold : first, to emphasize the economic aspect of household problems, 
and, second, to make the girls skillful in solving the problems of the 
home. These two aims have determined the character of the course, 
the order of topics, and the mathematical content. We have tried to 
select only problems similar to those that actually occur in the home. 

These problems have been grouped, not according to their mathemat- 
ical content, but according to subject matter, the order of topics depend- 
ing to some extent upon the order of difficulty of the problems, to some 
extent upon the order of topics in the home arts course, and to some 
extent upon the maturity of the girls. Under our present arrangement 
the course is allowed 7 credits, of which 5 are given in the sophomore 
year and 2 in the senior year. 

In the sophomore year the course begins with a study of the budget 
system as applied to household management. This lays a foundation 
for the economic aspect of all the later work. The girls learn what a 
budget represents, how to plan a family budget, and how to apply the 
theory to their own personal expenditures. They are taught to keep 
a petty cash account, to distribute the items of expenditure under the 
budget headings, and to see that they keep within the budget estimates. 

* Presented at the meeting of the New York Section of the -Association of Teachers of 
Mathematics in the Middle States and Maryland, February, 1916. 



522 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

The budget divisions, in a sense, form an outline for the rest of the 
course. If we accept Brudre's choice of headings, the subjects taken 
up may be grouped as follows: food, shelter, clothing, operation, and 
advancement. At present we study food, clothing, and operation dur- 
ing the sophomore year, and shelter and advancement during the senior 
year. Whether or not this is a desirable arrangement is irrelevant to 
our present discussion. 

The senior course offers little in the way of new problems, though it 
may be novel to consider them women's problems. The girls make an 
intensive study of methods of keeping household accounts, and they 
study invesments, methods of purchasing homes, building and loan 
associations, mortgages, life insurance. They compare the expense of 
owning a home, such as loss of interest on investment, taxes, and depre- 
ciation, with rent of similar property. The maturity of the seniors 
makes it possible to study all these problems from a more or less personal 
point of view. 

In the sophomore course the problems peculiar to domestic arts find 
their place. After the preliminary study of the budget system already 
mentioned, the first problems to be consideied are those in operation, 
because they present fewest difficulties. These problems are concerned 
chiefly with matters of fuel for heat and light. The girls read the 
various kinds of meters in the school. They find out the difference in 
the number of feet of gas used per hour in a Welsbach and in an open 
burner; when it is cheaper to use a gas iron rather than an electric iron; 
the number of hours of use needed to make a gas iron pay for itself; 
they discover why one cannot afford to use ordinary carbon electric 
light bulbs instead of a Tungsten or Mazda. All these problems, though 
extremely simple as far as mathematics are concerned, have a legitimate 
place in the course because of their importance to the housekeeper. 

Closely connected with operation is the matter of house furnishing and 
the buying of suppUes. All the variety of problems in this group will 
readily occur to any housekeeper's mind: estimating the amount of 
material needed for floor coverings, wall paper, table and bed linen, 
curtains. We give the girls a little practice in drawing to scale, and 
teach them to draw floor plans and to interpret architects' drawings. 
The economic aspect of the problems is emphasized wherever possible, 
both in studying the relation that the value of furnishings should bear 
to the value of the house, and also in pointing out the significance of 
even a small saving through canny methods of purchase. 



1916] MATHEMATICS APPLIED TO THE HOUSEHOLD ARTS 523 

Kitchen soap purchased by the cake at 5 cents or in quantities at 4 
cents means a possible saving of 25 per cent. If the same per cent of 
saving could be realized on all purchases, what would it amount to in 
an outlay of MOO? 

The problems in house furnishings involve only denominate numbers, 
percentage, and mensuration of rectilinear figures and the circle. Meas- 
urement of the circle is involved in such a problem as this: How much 
lace is needed to edge a circular lunch cloth one yard in diameter? 

In the next division of the budget — clothing — are included all prob- 
lems concerned with estimating the amount of material needed for 
garments, the allowance for hems, tucks, straight and bias ruflBes, with 
the cost. These problems involve only fractions, linear measure, and 
square root, but they sound sufficiently puzzling to an ordinary high 
school sophomore. 

To illustrate: A tuck shortens the goods by double the width of the 
tuck. Problem: How many j inch tucks are needed to shorten a skirt 
3 inches? The skirt is to be 38 inches long, finished. How long must 
each breadth be cut to allow for a 3 inch hem and three \ inch tucks? 

Again: A rufiie should measure one and one-half times the length of 
the goods to which it is attached. Problem : A child's petticoat measures 
1^ yards around the bottom, and is to be 16 inches long, finished with a 
1 inch hem. How much material 30 inches wide is required? If it is 
trimmed with a ruffle 3 inches wide, finished, that has a | inch hem and 
three i^ inch tucks, how much will be needed for the ruffles? Will any 
extra material be needed for the band? At 35 cents a yard, how much 
will the petticoat cost? 

Bias ruffles add a new difficulty. For the benefit of the men may I 
explain that a "true bias" is in reality the diagonal of a square whose 
side is the width of the goods. A bias strip is made by cutting parallel 
to the diagonal. The width of a bias strip is the perpendicular distance 
between the lines of cutting. 

To estimate the length of a bias strip the dressmaker's rule is: multi- 
ply the width of the goods by 1§ (approximately y/l). In order to use 
this rule intelligently the girls learn how to find the square root of 
numbers, and how to make approximations. 

Problem: Find the amount of material 20 inches wide, required for 
a 4 inch bias ruffle 26 inches long. How much material will be wasted 
if the end pieces cannot be used? How much material would be needed 



524 TiiE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

for a straight ruffle? If the material costs $1.15 a yard how much less 
will the straight ruffle cost? 

When the subject of food is taken up, the problem? become more 
complex, although the arithmetic involved is simple enough. The ter- 
minology has already been mastered in other courses; the girls know 
about the composition of food and its fuel value; they know what is 
meant by a "balanced ration." But before this knowledge can be of 
real service they need to have a great deal of practice in applying the 
principles of nutrition to the housewife's problem of planning correct 
dietaries readily and economically. 

To apply the principles of nutrition necessitates the use of tables that 
give the composition and fuel value of foodstuffs. Of the tables that 
are available, those compiled by Atwater and published as a govern- 
ment bulletin are the most available as well as the cheapest. They give 
both the composition of foodstuffs in per cent, and also the total number 
of calories per pound. 

To familiarize the girls with the use of these tables they are given 
problems like the following, and they are required to tabulate their 
results in a convenient form for future use. 

1. Find the total number of calories and the number of calories of 
protein, fat, and carbohydrates in 1 cup of rice. One cup of rice equals 
8 ounces. Rice contains 8 per cent protein. One ounce of protein 
yields 113 calories. The problem thus reduces to simple multiplication 
of the factors 8 ounces, 8 per cent and 113 calories. To fmd the number 
of calories of fat the method is the same, except that fat yields 255 
calories to the ounce. 

Problems in the comparison of foods are also given. E.g., How many 
ounces of sirloin steak will yield as many calories of protein as one 

egg? 

In such problems, the algebraic equation simplifies the solution, letting 
X represent the number of ounces of steak needed. 

It is evident that the use of these tables involves more computation 
than is practicable for the average housekeeper. The infonnation given 
is not in a form that makes it readily available for her use. What the 
housekeeper needs to know is not the number of calories per pound, 
but per cup or ounce, not the chemical composition of foods in per- 
centages, but the number of calories of protein, fat, and carbohydrates 
per cup or ounce. 



1916] MATHEMATICS APPLIED TO THE HOUSEHOLD ARTS 525 

There are two other tables especially useful to the housekeeper; the 
table compiled by Professor Irving Fisher and reprinted as a bulletin 
by the American School of Home Economics, and the table compiled 
by Carlotta Greer and published in her Text Book of Cooking. Both 
of these tables give the necessary information in a form that makes it 
readily available for the housekeeper's needs. Other admirable tables 
are those compiled by Locke, by Kinne and Cooley, and by Rose, but 
none of these tables seems to me so well adapted to use in the high 
school. While tables in which the gram is used as the unit involve 
simpler computations, they are not so practicable because the ounce 
and the cup are the housewife's measures. In a short high school 
course, it is useless to suppose that the girls can be taught to think in 
grams. Botli Fisher and Carlotta Greer use the ounce as the unit, and 
both base their tables upon the 100 calorie portion. Instead of the per 
cent of composition as in Atwater or the weight of each of the digestible 
nutrients, both the Fisher and the Greer tables state the number of 
calories yielded by protein, while Fisher adds also the number of calories 
of fats and of carbohydrates. From either Fisher's or Greer's tables it 
is comparatively simple to compute the number of calories of any given 
foodstutT, and of a few standard recipes such as rice pudding, or white 
sauce. WTien the recipe is not found in the tables, its fuel value has 
to be computed from its respective ingredients, and then it is some- 
times necessary to know how to use the Atwater tables. 

Although the actual mathematical principles involved in these com- 
putations are simple enough, it requires a great deal of practice to 
enable the girls to use the tables with any degree of skill. 

They have to learn how to obtain approximate results, for approxima- 
tions are really of more use to the housekeeper than the scientifically 
accurate results of the laboratory. In every way we try to simplify 
the methods of computation and to eliminate all but the essentials. 
Two main requirements only are considered in regard to dietaries: first, 
a sufficient total number of calories, and second, the relatively correct 
number of protein calories, thus assuming that if the per cent of calories 
derived from protein in the dietary is correct, the per cent of fats and of 
carbohydrates can safely be left to adjust themselves. If the dietary 
needs correction because it is not balanced, the corrections are made 
entirely by trial. 

The girls are expected to learn, both by practice and by actual memori- 



526 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

zation, the fuel value of certain common foods, e.g., an egg, a slice of 
bread, a potato, a pat of butter; to know which foods can be used to 
increase or to decrease the per cent of protein in a dietary; to know a 
certain list of combinations of foods that are practically balanced, e.g., 
vegetable salads, bread and butter. They are encouraged to make 
rough estimates of the fuel value of foods, recipes, and dietaries, veri- 
fying their judgments by reference to the tables. 

When the girls are sufficiently familiar with these fundamental prin- 
ciples and methods of dietetics, they have to consider also the economic 
aspect of the subject. Foods are then classified according to their cost 
per 100 calories at the current local prices. The girls plan dietaries at 
a given cost per day, and learn how to lower the cost of living by 
choosing foods from the list of those that cost "less than 1 cent per 
100 calories." They find out which is the cheaper source of fuel at the 
current prices, eggs or steak, and they discover why tomatoes are a 
luxury as far as fuel value is concerned. 

In all of this work we barely touch upon many of the important 
phases of dietetics. The ash constituent, the digestibility of food, the 
varying capacity of the different proteins for rebuilding tissue and 
sustaining Ufe — all these, and many other complexities, have to be left 
for later and more intensive study in college. The aim of this part of 
the course has been achieved if the girls can use the tables readily, if 
they realize that it is not only desirable but practicable for a housewife 
to plan meals scientifically, and if they are able to put their knowledge 
to use in planning balanced dietaries that have sufficient nourishment 
and variety and yet are within a specified cost. 

This work in foods completes the sophomore course. An attempt 
has been made, by taking up the five divisions of the budget in the 
sophomore and the senior years, to include all types of household prob- 
lems that involve mathematics in their solution. This course is still 
in the experimental stage, but the value of such training for the girls in 
the home arts course has been clearly demonstrated. 



1916] COST OF FOODS FROM PRISON TO PALACE HOTEL 527 

COST OF FOODS FROM PRISON TO PALACE HOTEL^ 

MRS. MELVIL DEWEY 
Lake Placid Club 

War conditions and the consequent scarcity of food in many coun- 
tries, suggested the investigation to which this day's program is de- 
voted. Not only the price but nutritive needs and hygienic results of 
feeding under various living conditions should be considered to make 
this study of value. 

In seeking information on prison fare, appeals were made to the 
wardens of several leading prisons, but Mr. Thomas Mott Osborne was 
the only one to respond personally and he felt that his knowledge was 
too limited, as yet, to speak on this subject. 

A bibliography of material consulted in the State Library at Albany, 
covering both American and English penal institutions, is appended. 

PRISON FARE 

It is now held that the criminal is not a creature of heredity so largely 
as of environment and that a most important developing factor in en- 
vironment is diet. Nutrition unquestionably affects the disposition, 
character, and mental poise of the individual. The Borstal reforma- 
tory system now in use in England, is largely built upon this principle. 
The old theory which has so long prevailed, held that the object of feed- 
ing was simply to keep the prisoner alive and enable him to perform his 
daily tasks, but, if the prison is to be an institution of reform, the right 
kind and amount of food is an essential factor in his reformation. As a 
result of the old system there have been many disturbing elements in 
prison Hfe, mental and psychologic crises due to the disturbed nervous 
condition of the inmates, and made more pronounced by the influence of 
improper diet. While the prisoner is not incarcerated for the purpose 
of being fed an ideal diet, nevertheless he should be fed a palatable and 
well balanced ration, calculated to insure good health and a stable 
nervous system. 

The last investigation of our state institutions (Annual Report 1915, 
N. Y. Dept. of Efficiency and Economy) shows that the complaints made 

1 Presented at the meeting of the Institution Economics Section of the American Home 
Economics Association, Lake Placid, 1915. 



528 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

of the meals furnished prisoners in all four of our state prisons, Auburn, 
Clinton, Great Meadow, and Sing Sing, the manner of service, lack of 
suitable equipment, monotony and poor quality of the cooking, were 
well founded. 

The daily per capita for feeding men prisoners in New York State 
ranges from 11.29 cents at Auburn to 12.58 at Sing Sing. The average 
expense per prisoner per day for 3 meals in all our prisons is about 11.5 
cents. Occasionally it drops way below this sum. Three meals at 
Sing Sing, June 5, 1914, cost 7^ cents per capita, 4 other days, 6.95. The 
menu on the lowest day was: Breakfast: corn meal, milk, bread, coffee; 
Dinner: macaroni, bean soup, coffee, bread; supper: tea, bread. 

In this dietary the milk is adulterated to 3 or 4 times its bulk with 
water, the coffee is nothing but a slop, no taste of coffee being discern- 
ible, and the general statement is that to drink it brings on indigestion. 
The tea is a strong preparation of tannin, strong enough to tan leather. 
The macaroni is steamed, not baked. There was nothing appetizing 
for the prisoners to eat at breakfast except bread; at dinner, bean soup 
and bread; at supper, only bread. The coffee is made as follows: 3| 
pounds of coffee to 1| pounds chicory to 2^0 gallons of water, price 
14 cents a pound. This mixture is sufficient to serve, 1400 men at a 
total cost of 56.7 cents a day. To make a good drink the keeper at 
Auburn figured it would require 30 pounds of coffee mixed in the pro- 
portion as now used with chicory and would cost the state $3.40 in- 
stead of 56.7 cents as at present, and would increase the expense in all 
4 prisons about $5000 a year. 

At Clinton prison 3 days in June averaged 6.9 to 9.04 cents per capita. 
Breakfast: oatmeal, with milk, bread, coffee; dinner: pork and beans, 
bread, coffee; supper: bread, coffee. 

Meals at Auburn are said to be the best served in the prisons and 
there the milk was skimmed, not diluted 3 to 4 times. 

It seems extraordinary that so little judgment is shown by prison 
officials in varying and imp^o^^ng the dietary. The same unappetizing 
stuff is served day after day and year after year, \s'ith no variety in 
food or manner of preparation. A large number of the prisoners have 
stomach troubles from this cause alone. Canned food is served when 
fresh vegetables would be just as cheap. The meat is cooked to death 
and is covered by a so-called sauce. The kitchen keepers arc not to 
blame; it is the fault of the system. 

The law proN-ides that prisoners shall be served "wholesome, but in- 



1916] COST OF FOODS FROM PRISON TO PALACE HOTEL 529 

ferior food." It reads well in the published list of meals but in actual 
practice it is awful. At all prisons the beef bought is what is known as 
"clods." The breakfast is one of the horrors of prison life, oatmeal 
one day, hash the next, a very small amount of meat being used, or 
none at all, the hash being a combination of vegetables, unappetizing in 
appearance and taste, and is properly described as a "mess." Once a 
week it is baked and then the men eat and commend it. The supper 
always served throughout the State, is bread with tea or colTee which 
are both unspeakably bad. In only one prison was the bread distribu- 
tion sanitary and decent, picked up on a fork and handed to the pris- 
oner. In every other prison the inmates were allowed to paw the bread 
over and sometimes handle a number of pieces in making a selection. 
Repeated efforts have been made to secure baking ovens but without 
avail, and every one of the kitchen keepers has deplored the vile stuff 
served as tea and coffee. Only one prison has suitable arrangements 
for cooking food; that has a bake oven, but in all the others the food is 
cooked in steam kettles, whereby all the taste is cooked out of it and 
it is served in a watery condition. 

When the character of the food served is taken into consideration, it 
is not surprising that our prisons do not reform and that work in the 
shops is not satisfactory. One prison. Great Meadow, has a large farm 
worked by the prisoners, and fresh vegetables are sometimes served 
them. The fact that a daily supply of fresh vegetables in summer is 
not served in all of our prisons is simply an indictment of the efficiency 
of prison administration both in Albany and at the several prisons. 
Examination of the various mess halls and kitchens shows that a com- 
plete change in the feeding of prisoners should be made. In addition 
the sanitary and hygienic conditions in some of these prisons is a disgrace 
to the state. 

Prof. Charles R. Henderson in his report on Penal and Reformatory 
Institutions, 1910, outlines many necessary improvements and even 
suggests ideal conditions: first, a suitable room in which to serve meals, 
surroundings being important to power of digestion; dampness, dark- 
ness, gloom, impede and arrest it, while fresh air, light, comfort, and 
cheeriness aid digestion materially. The room should be simple, sani- 
tary, decorated in light, soft shades, pleasing to the eye. There should 
be ample tables, and reasonably comfortable seats, so arranged that the 
men can be easily marched in and out. All meals should be eaten in 
mess haUs; eating in cells should not be allowed. The food should 



530 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOJJics [October 

be well cooked, especially vegetables and cereals. Large brick ovens are 
desirable; too much food is steamed and it is not sufficiently varied. 
The food should be well served by trained waiters, neatly coated and 
aproned, preferably in white. White china should be used, not rusty 
tin and pewter as has been the custom from time immemorial. Prof. 
Henderson even goes so far as to suggest having bright orchestral 
music at one meal a day as an aid to digestion and adds that, except 
the music, Clinton prison has used most of these suggestions with 
advantage and no increase in actual cost of feeding. 

The National Committee on Prisons and Prison Labor, through Miss 
Jaffray, Executive Secretary, and Wm. Golden, General Inspector, re- 
port some encouraging improvements in regard to feeding the inmates 
of the penal institutions in New York City. Beginning with June, 
1914, the whole method of issuing, distributing, and cooking food was 
changed and a much more balanced diet was installed. The city insti- 
tutions are now equipped for roasting meat and serving foods in other 
ways than boiled and steamed. They have also added to the dietary 
cereals and milk for breakfast. Baked beans, stewed fruit, macaroni 
and cheese, boiled rice for supper, which had not previously been used, 
have added variety to the diet and are much appreciated by the inmates. 

The allowance for inmates of the city penal institutions is 16 cents per 
capita; for employes, 3 meals a day, 31 cents per capita. The object is 
to get the food to the individual in as palatable a form as possible and this 
can be accomplished only by having suitable cooking utensils and the 
number of cooks to handle, supervise, and distribute the food properly. 

It is not generally considered important in penal institutions to have 
any well trained person in charge of this phase of the work, but com- 
petent and reliable help is more essential here than in any other part 
of the institution because food is one of the principal large expenditures, 
and should be handled with great care and efficiency. Usually in prisons 
there is one cook or chef who has entire charge of the work. His hours 
are from 4 in the morning to 4 in the afternoon. On his day off the work 
is done by an inmate, and the result can readily be imagined. Too 
much is now dependent on inmate help. There should always be a re- 
sponsible and efficient person in the kitchen at all times which would 
mean at least two people to properly supervise the cooking and distribu- 
tion of food supplies. 

Miss JalTray writes: 



1916] COST OF FOODS FROM PRISON TO PALACE HOTEL 531 

To my knowledge the dietary of the Department of Correction is the best 
in any prison. Dr. Emily Seaman of Teachers College is making a study of 
the prison diets of New York State with a view to recommending changes, 
but her work is still far from complete. 

In regard to English reformatories and indeed to prison administration in 
England, it is in advance of this country but absolutely along the old lines 
of repression, Mr. Osborne was told when in England that we had to work 
out prison reform in this country before they would awaken to the need of 
it in England. All the details are well attended to; it is the underlying 
principle that is wrong. 

The fact can no longer be ignored that food has an important bearing 
on disposition and character and in the production of certain physical 
and psychic phenomena. ]Malnutrition is not only a great cause in the 
production of criminals but may be a cause of their continuation in 
crime. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY ON PRISON DIET 

Brush, A. A. Prison diet, address with discussion. (In National prison association. 

Proceedings at Atlanta, 1886, 7:61-66. 
DuNLOP, J. C. Report on prison dietaries. Glasgow, 1899, pp. 134. (Prison commis- 
sion for Scotland.) 

A very scientific report giving amounts, prices and food values of all items discussed. 
Prison Diet. (In National prison association. Proceedings at Cleveland, 1900. 21: 100- 
153.) 

Discussion, with sample menus from different prisons, giving amount and cost of 
food. 
Henderson, Charles R. Standards of diet. (In National prison association. Proceed- 
ings at Albany, 1906, 27: 164-66.) 
Brief and rather general in character. 
Henderson. C, R. Diet in penal institutions. (Ed. Penal and reformatory institutions. 
1910, pp. 265-272.) 

Discusses the ser\ing of food, arrangement of mess halls, etc., as well as the food 
itself. 
Conferences of Stewards of State iNSTrruTiONS. 1st and 2d. (In New York State 
Fiscal supervisor of State charities. Report 1911, v. 2, pp. 199-352.) 
Contains much interesting material about institution dietaries. 
Improving Institution Dietaries. (In N. Y. State Fiscal Supervisor of state charities. 
Report 1911, v. 1, pp. 136-203.) 

Includes analysis and criticism of dietaries of charitable institutions in New York 
State by Miss Florence R. Corbett. 
Jackson, C. H. Examination of state prisons and of correctional institutions for males 
and females, pp. 759-69; 836-40. (In New York State Dept. of efficiency and economy. 
Annual report, 1915, v. 4.) 
Atwater, W. O. Dietaries in public institutions. U. S. Dept. of Agr. Yearbook 1901, 
pp. 393-408. 



532 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

Guy, W. a. On suflicient and insufficient dietaries, with special reference to the dietaries 
of prisons. Journal of the Statistical Society, Sept. 1863, 26: 239-280. 

Recommends reduction in English prison dietaries on the ground that paupers and 
prisoners have been too well fed. 
Smith, Edward On private and public dietaries. Journal of the Society of Arts, February 
19, 1864, 12:212-224. 

Includes prison dietaries, and a discussion of the relation between amount of pris- 
oner's food and amount of labor required of him. 
The Poor Man's Kitchen. Comhill, June 1860, 1 : 745-54. 

Somewhat sentimental account of amount, cost, and quality of food in English 
prisons. 



THRIFT BY HOUSEHOLD ACCOUNTING 

EMMA A. WINSLOW 
Teachers College, New York City 

In order to help toward thrift, household accounts should tell how 
money has been spent and how it could perhaps be spent to better 
advantage. 

It is especially important to know certain things about the way 
money is being spent. 

The amount being spent for housing the family is worth knowing, 
for usually not more than one-fifth of the income can be spent for this 
and leave enough for the other necessary expenses. A good house is 
worth having, but one should know how much of the family income is 
being spent for it. 

It is also important to know how much is being used for housekeep- 
ing expenses, and how much is being invested in household furnishings. 

Many families know how much they are spending for food, but if 
food costs are to be kept low and the family is still to be adequately 
fed, it is also worth while to know how much is being used for dilTerent 
types of food. 

Much meat usually makes a high cost diet, and other foods can 
provide the necessary protein. Milk is a kind of protein food especially 
necessary for children and is also so valuable for grown people that it 
should always be freely used even when economy is being carefully 
considered. A total weekly expenditure for other protein foods than 
milk need not be large, however, in order to supply enough nourish- 
ment of this kind for the family. 



1916] THRIFT BY HOUSEHOLD ACCOUNTING 533 

Fruits and vegetables are necessary- in the diet. If you have to 
economize, use the cheaper kinds, but do not leave them out of the 
diet or try to use them too little. 

Flour, meal, macaroni, rice, and other cereals, bread, and crackers, 
are all so nutritious in comparison with cost, that a generous use of 
them usually makes a low cost diet. 

Fat in the form of butter or olive oil is rather expensive, and fully 
as much nourishment is secured from the cheaper fats. Use some fat 
in the diet each day, but do not let this part of your food expenditure 
mount up too high if you are trying to economize. 

Sugar and other sweet foods are inexpensive, but it is not a good 
plan to use them too freely, especially for children, because of their 
tendency to cause digestive disturbances. 

Tea, coffee, and other beverages have practically no nutritive value, 
and, for the sake of economy if for no other reason, too much money 
should not be paid out for them. 

All the expenses just considered are household expenses, and are for 
the benefit of the family as a whole. An expense for clothing, or for 
car fare, lunch, health, recreation, education, insurance, etc., is usually 
for the benefit of a certain member of the family, and in keeping accounts 
it is worth while to consider the amounts being used by and for the dif- 
ferent members of the family, so that there may be always a wise and 
just division of the family income and no one member will unconsciously 
have more than a necessary share. 

In addition to recording and studying expenses during the week, it 
is also worth while to compare the various totals of the week's expenses 
with the totals of expenses during other weeks. 

It is also often advantageous to keep a record of savings so as to 
encourage their increase, and a record of debts so as to encourage their 
decrease. 

DIRECTIONS FOR KEEPING ACCOUNTS 

The account forms on pages 549-550 are planned for the keeping of 
accounts which will easily and quickly give the information just outlined 
as being desirable. First, is the summary page upon which is to be 
entered week by week the totals of the various expenditures. Next is a 
series of weekly record pages, and at the close of the book is a page for 
the statements of savings and debts. 

1. At the beginning of each week write the date in the indicated 



534 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

space at the top of the weekly cash record form. In the blank spaces 
at the top of the Personal Expense columns, write the names of the 
members of the family for whom it is desired to keep separate records. 
If there are not enough Personal Expense columns on the page as ruled, 
divide one or more across the middle to make additional separate spaces. 

2. Write in the indicated space under the heading, Cash For Use, an 
exact statement of the amount of cash which you have on hand at the 
beginning of the week. When any cash is received during the week, 
enter it immediately in this column. 

3. When any money is spent out, think for what purpose the expendi- 
ture was made, look over the headings of the various columns and 
write down in the proper space the date or the day when the expenditure 
was made, the amount and kind of the expenditure, and the price paid. 
For instance, if on Monday you purchased among other things 2 quarts 
of milk for $0.18 and 1^ pounds of beef for $0.24, the entry in your 
first food column would look like this: 



Mon 



2 qt. milk 
li lb. beef 



$ .18 

.24 



The other columns would show similarly other expenditures of the day, 
and on the following days throughout the week all expenditures would 
be similarly entered in the appropriate columns. 

4. If any money is added to or withdrawn from your savings funds, 
record it on the page at the back of the book. 

If any debts are made or any are paid off, record this also. 

5. At the end of the week add up the figures in the various columns, 
and enter the totals on the summary page at the beginning of the book, 
in a column dated the same as the weekly record sheet. 

Add up the figures in this column, and enter the total in the space 
on the weekly record sheet headed Cash Used. Also enter here any 
amount paid on back debts and any amount saved for future use. 

Add up the figures in the column Cash For Use and those just entered 
in the column Cash Used. Enter these totals in the last column to the 
right, and subtract the lower figure from the upper figure. This will 
give you a statement of the amount of cash which should be on hand 
at the end of the week. If the figure does not agree with the amount 
of cash actually on hand, there has been some mistake in the rcci^rd. 
If the mistake cannot be found, write down the amount unaccounted 



1916] 



THRIFT BY HOUSEHOLD ACCOUNTING 535 



for, and begin the next week's account with a true statement of the 
amount of cash on hand. 

6. Look over your record for the week, and ask yourself the following 
questions : — ^ 

Were all the expenditures advisable? 

Did we always get a good return for our money? 

wedcT? ^"^ ^^'' ''''^'' ^''^'''''' '''"'^^''' '"'^^ ^^' "^""'^'^ °^ °^^^^ 

Are we dividing our income wisely, or are we extravagant along 
certam Imes? ^ 

HOW CAN WE PLAN IT TO SPEND OUR MONEY TO EVEN BETTER 

ADVANTAGE? 

Keeping household accounts will not make you thrifty, unless you take 
advantage of the information which they will give you 

If you wish to learn more about planning your budget, or about 
spendmg your money thriftily, ask a Home Economics teacher or a 
visiting housekeeper, or write to the Budget Commitlee or the Social 
Work Committee of the American Home Economics Association, Bal- 
timore, Maryland. 



536 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

A NEW PHASE OF EXTENSION WORK IN THE SOUTH 

EDITH INGHAM 
Dietitian and Manager of the State Dormitories, College of Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas 

FLORIS CULVER 
Extension Lecturer 

A unique idea, as originated by and effected under the direction of 
the College of Industrial Arts, is the plan of instructing the boarding 
house keepers in the college community along the lines of food selec- 
tion, preparation, serving, and care. The need of such a step was felt 
because, due to the rapid growth of the College, over one half the stu- 
dents cannot be accommodated in the dormitories and are forced to 
board at the homes near by. While some of the boarding house keepers 
served well balanced meals, there were others who have been known to 
serve such dinners as: 

Baked Beans Sausage Cold Slaw Sauer Kraut 

String Beans Black-eyed Peas Salt Pork and Cabbage 

Bread Butter Bread Butter 

Mince Pie Peach Cobbler 

Potatoes Rice 

Fried Mush and Syrup 

Coffee 

All things considered, it seemed hardly fair that the three hundred 
girls at the dormitory dining hall should have the advantage of being 
served meals planned by an expert dietitian, while between four and 
five hundred students were expected to do the same quality of work on 
a less certain diet. 

Feeling that the housekeepers themselves would appreciate as well 
as profit by the cooperation of the College in regard to their daily 
problems of caring for the students, PresidentBralley issued to all of tlm 
women in the community, who had as boarders students attending the 
College of Industrial Arts, invitations to attend a short course of six 
lectures on important points in the maintenance of the culinary depart- 
ment of a large family. At the first lecture, all of the boarding house 
keepers were present. At the second lecture the number in attendance 
was nearly double that of the first day, for the townswomen who did 
not keep boarders wished to come also. As it is the policy of the College 



I 



1916] NEW PHASE OF EXTENSION WORK IX THE SOUTH 537 

to help whomsoever it can and to refuse aid to no one, the additional 
attendants were welcomed, although the needs of the boarding house 
keepers were the guiding thought behind each lecture. The audience 
increased daily. 

The first lecture dealt with the sanitary aspects of the care of food 
and garbage. In the discussion of the significance of the germ theory 
in the home, the care of drains, traps, the refrigerator, and the riddance 
of household pests were emphasized. At the first lecture also, the com- 
position of food and the principles of cookery were simply demonstrated. 
The lectures were planned for an hour, but, on account of the interesting 
discussion at the conclusion of each day's talk, it seemed impossible to 
close short of two hours. 

The second lecture had to deal with the economical purchasing of 
food. The value of observing market quotations, what and when to 
buy in wholesale quantities, the number of servings to certain sized 
packages, and cost versus nutritive value of the dilTerent tj^pes of food 
were emphasized. A striking comparison of difTerence in cost in buying 
in large quantities and small packages was demonstrated. The follow- 
ing includes some of the suggestions made: 
Buy: 

Bacon, in 15 pound boxes. 

Canned goods, by case. If possible place order for all canned goods 
at once, preferably the spring before to secure a better price. Use 
gallon cans if family justifies. Canned apples for pie, sauce, puddings, 
are cheap and easy to handle. Watch canned goods for full pack, 
quality, flavor, and syrup. 

Cereals, by dozen boxes or more in cool weather. Crackers, by large 
wooden box. 

Cocoa, by 10 pound boxes. Chocolate, by large sized cakes. CofTee, 
whole; keep covered and grind as necessary. 

Condensed or dried milk for certain purposes and for emergency use. 

Eggs, by case or half case whenever possible. They should be stored 
in March or April, when they are cheap, either in a cold storage plant 
or at home in salt or w^ater glass. 

Gelatine, flakes or sheet. Lima beans, dry. 

Lemons, by one-half box if used in sufficient quantity. 

Macaroni, spaghetti, by large wooden box saves handling boxes and 
saves money. 

Potatoes, by sack if they will keep. 



538 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

Broken nut meats, broken pineapple and some other fruits are much 
cheaper than whole and equal in flavor. 

Raisins, the seedless muscatel or sultana by pound instead of the 
seeded varieties in paper cartons. 

Salt, in large sacks. Spices, in large cans or by pound. 

Sugar, by barrel or by several sacks when it is cheap. Watch whole- 
sale prices in city papers. Syrup, by case. 

Tomato puree for soups and sauces. 

Wesson oil for salads in gallon cans and, if desired, get best olive oil 
in gallon cans and use together. Medium grades of olive oil are often 
combinations. It is cheaper and more satisfactory to make one's own 
combination. 

The third lecture dealt with the comparative value of food, the place 
in the diet, and the proper relationship of the various types of foods. 
The essential points in the planning of a well balanced dietary were dis- 
cussed and demonstrated. The average food requirements of the girls 
attending the College were simply explained and the best sources of 
energy giving, tissue building, and body regulating material were clearly 
brought out. 

In connection with this lecture, menus for one week were handed the 
women. Two of last years' degree graduates of the College, from their 
interest in the problem, gave their time and thought to the preparation 
of the dietary sheets which bring out the fuel value of each dish and 
give also the protein per cent and total calories for each day. 

At the fourth lecture, the reasonable rate of board and reasonable 
profit to expect were taken up. Stoddard Hall budget was used for 
illustration. The average income to expect from their investment was 
worked out with the boarding house keepers. Proper kitchen and din- 
ing room equipment and arrangement of such were discussed. A com- 
parison was made of the different kinds of linen. 

On the fifth day a meat cutting demonstration was given by the local 
butcher. The comparative cost, nutritive value and use of the varicus 
cuts were discussed. Methods of making tough meats tender, and of 
attractively utilizing leftover meats were demonstrated. 

The last day was given over to questions and discussions. Light was 
thrown on problems hitherto perplexing to many of the audience. 

During the week, the visitors had access to the College library on 
Home Economics. Not only did they read from good books on foods, 



1916] THE COOKING NOTE BOOK 539 

but they also availed themselves of the opportunity offered them to 
read up-to-date magazines on the subject. 

Each day, at least one simple dish was served them. Recipes worked 
out in large amounts for families of ten to fifteen were handed out to 
the women. 

Probably the most satisfactory part of the entire experiment was the 
spirit of hearty cooperation and keen appreciation evinced on the part 
of the boarding house keepers themselves. Not only did they show 
eager anxiety to get every point offered, but also added color to the dis- 
cussion by giving useful information they had gleaned by their own 
experience. 

The boarding house keepers themselves petitioned the President of 
the College to grant them the privilege of another course of lectures next 
year, with monthly round table discussions. They wish to regard the 
College as the center of help for problems to be solved and a medium of 
exchange of valuable ideas. 

As a step to this end the plan for the food department of the new 
dormitory to be in use next year was explained, and a cordial invitation 
extended for visits at any time. 

It is the earnest desire of the College that the assistance rendered the 
boarding house keepers will not only be of practical service to them, 
but will also, through the service of better cooked and balanced meals 
to the students, benefit the College in maintaining a high standard of 
scholarship. 



THE COOKING NOTE BOOK 

EMMA CONLEY 
Slate Inspector of Home Economics, Madison, Wisconsin 

It is not the writer's intention to open a discussion on the merits of 
the note book in connection with food work in Home Economics. 

It may be that the time spent in keeping any note book could be used 
to better advantage. Textbooks, containing standard recipes are now 
numerous enough so that it is no longer necessary to waste time dic- 
tating arbitrary proportions of ingredients. 



540 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

Most teachers realize, too, that the right way to teach Home Eco- 
nomics is by the experimental method rather than by "rule-of- thumb." 

There should be some system whereby observation, deduction, and 
conclusion could be recorded, so that the principles underlying all cook- 
ing could be developed and formulated for application. 

If this could be done it would be comparatively easy to group all 
recipes into a limited number of classes, simplify the methods of teach- 
ing the subject, and to cut down materially the number of lessons given 
over to mere manipulation. 

The following outline is given because it has been tried in a number 
of schools in Wisconsin and the teachers who tried it reported that it 
led to a better understanding of the cooking work and to a very good 
grouping of recipes. It was found, for example, that, instead of copy- 
ing a dozen or more recipes for pie or cookies, this one general summary 
made it possible for students to formulate any recipes, if the course was 
planned so that lessons were inter-related and the subject was presented 
in a logical manner. 

The outline used is as follows : 

1. Naxne of food 

2. Method of preparation 

a. Proportion of ingredients 

b. Method of combination 

c. Method of cooking 

d. Temperature 

e. Time 

3. Results 

a. Observation of each indiWdual food product 

b. Comparison of the class products 

c. Reasons for variation in appearance, texture, quality 

4. Variation of recipe 

a. Variations which could be made for experimental purposes 

b. Variations in manner of serving 

5. Serving 

a. Recipe, how served? 

b. At what meal? 

6. Nutritive value in calories 

7. Cost 

a. Cost of food prepared 

b. Variation to decrease cost 

8. New points learned in lesson 



I 



1916] students' contributions 541 

STUDENTS' CONTRIBUTIONS 

A SOCIAL WELFARE STUDY 

D. E. MITCHELL 

The following paper is an account of the work done by a student in the Course for Social 
Welfare given in Teachers College, Columbia University. This course is merely sugges- 
tive, and is planned to give the students an opportunity to use their speciality of Home 
Economics along social activities. The family described is one maintaining a low standard 
of living, and the work done here had to begin with the first principles. When instruction 
was begun the monthly budget for the family was as follows: 

Income Ettimait 

$34.66 Rent $10.00 

Food 38.49 

Fuel, heat and light 3.25 

Clothing 14.00 

Insurance 86 

Sundries 2 00 

$68.60 

To provide the dietary children picked up cabbages that had fallen from the farmer's 
wagons, and the sauer kraut was made by the barrel. .\t the close of the student's work 
she had accomplished wonderful things in preparing the field for further work. 

Winifred Stuart Gibbs. 

The family visited consists of Mr. and Mrs. S. and six children: Mr. 

S., a Hungarian, born in 1874, by name Joseph; the wife named 

Anna, a Hungarian, bom in 1880, Anna, Mary and Steve, respectively 

fourteen, twelve, and ten; Joseph, Veronica, and Andrew; are three 

and a half, and one and a half years, and four months. 

January, 1915. Joseph fell on the sidewalk last summer and broke 
four front teeth and so lives mostly on liquid food. The only source of 
income is the man's salary of eight dollars a week. The children pick 
up coal and wood from the tracks. When the truck trains were com- 
ing in the children got cabbages, apples, onions and other odd vege- 
tables which were thrown out. 

The family conditions in October were bad. The flat of three rooms 
was too small; it was dark, ill-ventilated, and very dirty. There was a 
sink in the kitchen with one faucet, and one toilet in the hall for four 
flats. Each room had a window but all except those in the front room 
looked out on a brick wall with a narrow court between, so that little 
light came into the rooms. There was one gas burner in each room. 
The floors were of rough unpainted wood. There was no cupboard in 
the flat but there were some shelves. The halls of the tenement were 
fairly clean but dark. 



542 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[October 



The first time we visited the flat it was as dirty and untidy as it 
could be. Mrs. S. was out so we could not get any information. The 
windows were all shut; dirty dishes and filthy rags lay everywhere 
together. At the second visit Mrs. S. was in bed with toothache and 
the place was as dirty as before. I was assured that they had only 
sauer kraut and coffee for their meals and that the whole family ate the 
same thing. 

TENTATIVE PURPOSES AND PLAN 

To persuade them to keep the window open a little all the time. 

To teach them to be more orderly, cleaner, and to take better care of 
their food. 

To teach Mrs. S. and Anna to cook such simple economical dishes as 
they can afTord, with their inadequate income. To teach as far as pos- 
sible such dishes as the whole family can eat. To try to prevent the 
babies having coffee. 

To gradually substitute a better balanced diet for the children and 
babies. To give a week's menu, making use of things taught and 
already known. 

To teach a system of regular meals to supplant the present irregular 
eating. 

To teach the keeping of regular accounts. 

To teach the division of income within their income. 

To teach Mrs. S. to keep her house so that she will not require help. 

To get Anna to the Trade School or to work where she would be 
trained to become an efficient earner. 



NOTES ON WORK 

I. Questioned them as to their food habits. Told Mrs. S. 
to keep window open, clean house, give Veronica toast, 
not to give Joseph coffee, to use postum instead of 
coffee. 

II. Proportions of cereal and water; method and length of 
cooking; when to serve. Need not always put in 
raisins. Eat with milk. Cheap and good food. The 
syrup to be eaten on bread or fruit. Proportion of 
sugar and water. Length of time to boil. Chcajjcr 
and just as good as sugar. Told Mrs. S. not to cat 
so much saucr kraut and drink less coffee. To keep 
milk for the babies in a cool place, covered. To eat 
plenty of cereal and milk herself. 



Praclical Work 

Taught the makmg of 
toast, rendering fat, and 
making of postum. 



Oatmeal, cream of wheat 
with raisins. Syrup. 



I 



1916] 



STUDENTS CONTRIBUTIONS 



543 



III. Good way to do potatoes, little work, and no fpaste. 
Good to have for supper with fat or cheese. Best 
way for Joseph to have potatoes, .\sked Anna to 
keep account of all she bought. 



' Baked potatoes. 



rV. Apples, bread and sugar. Good way to use the picked 
up apples. Have it for supper with soup. Have some 
apples or raisins every day. Make Joseph eat prop- 
erly and not have a bottle. Clean sink so it won't 
smell. Throw away rubbish. Told .\nna about the 
Trade School. 



Apple pudding, potato 
soup. 



V. Chuck steak, onions, and carrots. Cook very slowly, 
three hours. Went to P. School to see about .\nna's I 
working papers and why Steve and Mary did not go j 
to school regularly. 



Meat stew, apple sauce. 



VI. Cheese as good a food as meat and doesn't cost so much. 
Cook it slowly with bread and milk or rice and milk. 
Eat it uncooked with bread or potato. Do not give it 
to Veronica. Took Mrs. S. a good coat. 



Cheese fondue, prunes. 



Family moved to new flat; rent $8.50 a month instead of $10.00. 

January. 11. Found family with colds. Joseph and Veronica pale, 
cross, and fretful. Mr. S. out of work. He and Anna were both out 
looking for work. Have coal and wood which they had picked up. 
The new flat is lighter than the old but the m.iddle room has no out- 
side light or air. There is one toilet in the court for the whole tene- 
ment. The flat was very dirty and untidy. Left money for milk (1 
quart) every day. Veronica to have no coffee. Joseph having it every 
day. Veronica having soup, noodles with fat, and whatever she wanted 
that was on hand. Made beef juice in a Mason jar. Washed the 
bottles and boiled them. Told Mrs. S. to give beef juice, milk, and 
crusts every day to Veronica, and that Joseph and Veronica were sick 
because of coffee and not enough milk. Left money for meat and 
milk. 

January 15. Children no better. Showed Mrs. S. how to strain 
cereal for Veronica and how to soft cook an egg. Wrote menu of strained 
cream of wheat every day, beef juice one day, and egg and bread the 
next, plenty of milk and crusts every day. Veronica not to have any- 
thing else. House was tidied up and the babies washed. Had kept no 
slips of what was bought. 



544 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

January 17. Veronica better. Joseph worse; was drinking coffee 
when I went in. 

Took a lemon squeezer, oranges, eggs, rice, and cheese. Showed 
Anna and Mrs. S. how to prepare orange juice and told them to give 
it to Joseph and Veronica every day and to give Veronica an egg with 
a baked potato every day. Cooked a rice and cheese dish and gave 
advice as to how to use the codfish sent in. 

I have found that I could teach only one thing at a time and that I had 
to repeat things over and over. Have made little or no headway but 
have been trying to get a foundation laid. The whole family is so un- 
dernourished that little can be done till they are in better condition. 
Anna and Mary are intelligent and could be trained. The money that 
they spent on food was laid out surprisingly well to get the most for it, 
as is shown by the week's account given below. The work is really 
only begun and as there has been only half the minimum requirements 
to spend on food it was hard to make headway. 

The money was expended very well for the amount available. The 
diet lacks ruit and fat and the proportion of meat is high but I doubt 
if anyone could have done better. 

Cash expenditures of family for one week in September 

Milk, 17^ quarts $1 .46 

Bread, 7 loaves 35 

Cereals, 4 packages breakfast foods 50 

Rice 08 

Meat • 82 

Potatoes 18 

Vegetables : 08 

Sugar, 3^ lbs 18 

Eggs 10 

Coffee 25 

Lard 05 

Buttermilk 08 

$4.13 

Lunches and carfare for man 1 .20 

Church 10 

Gas 25 

Soap 10 

Insurance 25 

$6.03 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

FAMILY ACCOUNT BOOKS 

B. R. ANDREWS 

Chairman, Budget CommitUe, American Home Economics Association, Teachers College, 

Columbia University 

The Budget Committee is undertaking the collection of accurate rec- 
ords of family expenditures at various levels of income, and to this end 
wishes to determine upon standard forms for recording expenses. Be- 
low there is given a list of some of the available account books and 
cards, and there is appended a suggested account form which seems de- 
sirable for use in families making cash expenditures and not using charge 
accounts. Practically this suggested form will probably be most useful 
in families on small incomes under $1000-1200 a year, and as such it will 
be of especial interest to visiting housekeepers, charity societies, and 
others. This account form will be reprinted from the Journal as an 
account book for twelve weeks expenditures with the title "Family Cash 
Expenditures — Week by Week." The committee hopes that teachers of 
Home Economics will secure the keeping of records by this booklet 
among families of small income and contribute the results to the Com- 
mittee. 

Another prime problem is the keeping of accounts in the family where 
there are charge accounts. The Budget Committee asks that sugges- 
tions of card record forms for middle class incomes from $1200-2000 
or more be sent in. By using the card record system for this type of 
family there will be a chance to compare the card and book methods in 
household book-keeping. 

The purpose of collecting household budgets is to learn the economic 
habits of the American family. We wish to know these habits so that 
with the scientific knowledge available we can help society to a more 
efficient and rational expenditure of its income. 



545 



546 TBDE joxjRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

In order to analyze conditions, and to know how to increase the 
efficiency of family expenditure, we must know how money is being 
spent. The budgets collected must, as regards food costs for example, 
be accurate enough and detailed enough to serve as dietary studies. 
From the clothing budget we should know not only the amount spent by 
each member of the family for different types of clothing but also for the 
different clothing materials. There has been little said up to the pres- 
ent time about the universal bad economy in the use of clothing mate- 
rials. The same accurate detail must hold true of other expenditures if 
we are really going to solve problems. 

The best way to get this data is to keep accounts in such a classified 
way that they can easily serve as an accurate study. The first step in 
this direction is to furnish the house wife with some system by which 
she can keep accounts that will give the desired result, and that will not 
only furnish the student with adequate material from which to work 
but will furnish the house wife definite data by which she can criticise 
her own expenditure and make her budget for the following year. It 
will also stimulate business methods in ordering and buying. With 
this end in view the Budget Committee is working out systems for the 
keeping of household accounts. 

Students are asked to plan to secure accurate records of expendi- 
ture in their parents' homes. 

Family Cash Record — Week by Week 

Members of The Social Work Committee of the American Home 
Economics Association have prepared the following form, which, as 
stated above, is suggested for use in families with cash expenditures 
only. Copies of it arranged for twelve weeks expenditures will shortly 
be available. 

In this pamphlet the page will be larger and the forms spaced con- 
veniently. They will be prefaced by the explanations given on page 
534. 



1916] 



FAMILY ACCOUNT BOOKS 



547 



TOTAL WEEKLY EXPENSES 


Week 

OF 


Wkek 

OP 


(Etc.) 


Total 


House 

Rent 










Fuel, light, etc. 










Furnishings 










Total 










Food 

Meat, fish, milk, etc. 










Fruit, vegetables 










Flour, bread, etc. 










Butter, etc. 










Sugar, etc. 










Tea, Cofifee, etc. 










Total 










Personal 


















































Total 










Total Expenses 











548 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 
CASH RECORD 



[October 



House 


Food 


Rent, or house payments, 
taxes, house repairs 


Meat, fish, eggs, milk, cheese, 

nuts, lentils, dried beans 

and peas 


Fruit and vegetables 






















Total 






Total 






Total 




Fuel, light, laundry and 
cleanbg suppUes, ice 


Flour, meal, rice, macaroni, 

breakfast food cereals, 

bread, crackers 


Butter, butterine, oil, lard, 
bacon, salt pork, etc. 






















Total 






Total 






Total 




House furnishings 


Sugar, sirup, honey, molas- 
ses, candy, etc. 


Tea, coffee, salt, spices, etc. 






















Total 






Total 






Total 





1916] FAMILY ACCOUNT BOOKS 
DURING WEEK BEGINNIxN'G 



549 



PERSONAL (clothing, carfare, lunch, health, recreation, education, insurance, etc.) 



Name. 



Total 



Name. 



Total 



Name. 



Total 



Name. 



Total 



NamcL. 



Total 



Name. 



Total 



SUMMARY 



CASH POH USE 


CASH USED 


CASH left over 


On hand at begin- 
ning of week ... S 


Total weekly ex- 
penses S 


Total cash for 

use S 




Received from . . 


Paid on back 
debts 






Saved 


Total cash used . . 


















Cash on hand at 
end of week ... $ 


Total $ 


Total $ 









550 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 
STATEMENT OF SAVINGS 



[October 



Date 


Place 


Deposited 


WlTEUJRAWN 












Total 







STATEMENT OF DEBTS 



Date 


To Whom Owed 


Owed 


Paid 




t 








Total 







1916] FAMILY ACCOUNT BOOKS 551 

The Budget Committee presents the following list of available ac- 
count books and card systems — and will appreciate information of other 
available books. It is desirable that a complete collection of available 
systems of household accounts be at hand for teaching purposes in 
higher schools and colleges and to that end the Committee has made 
lantern slides of some fifteen of the following account forms for teachers, 
which the Association will furnish at 40 cents each on orders sent to the 
Baltimore office. A preliminary classification of these account forms 
has been made according to whether the "table of classification" of 
items, e.g., food, clothing, etc., is across the top of the page or down the 
side of the page, as follows: 

/. Table of Distribution Across the Top of Page: 

1. One sheet per month; a line a day; space for item: 

a. My Year's Expense, Geo. B. Woolson and Company, New York City. 

b. Household Accounts, .\mcrican School of Home Economics, Chicago. 

c. Bradstreets' Practical Accounting for Home E.xpenscs, P. W. Bradstrcct and 

Company, Chicago. 

d. Expense .\ccount Book, Woman's Educational and Industrial Union, Boston. 

e. Ward's P. and H. Expense Book, Samuel Ward Company, Boston. 

/. The Eccnomizer Household Account Book, O. A. Jcschicn, Smith Bros., 
Oakland. Cal. 

2. .\ line a day; space for item: 

a. Students Accounts, Edith Fleming, Department Home Economics, Cornell 

University, Ithaca, N. Y. 

b. Household .Accounts, Edith Fleming, Department Home Economics, Cornell 

University, Ithaca, N. Y. 

c. Form given in Haskin's How to Keep Household Accounts, Harper and 

Brothers. 

d. Household Expenses, J. C. Moore Corporation, Rochester, N. Y. (a loosc-Ieaf 

sj-stem). 

e. Household Expenses, Winifred Stuart Gibbs, Association for Improving the 

Condition of the Poor, New York City, (used in visiting instruction by visit- 
ing dietitians). 
II. Table of Distribution at Side of Page: 

1. One sheet per week; one column per day: 

a. Household Expenses, Florence Nesbit, Juvenile Court, Chicago. 

2. One sheet per month; one column per day: 

a. The Manning Home Budget, Standard Publishing Company, Boston, 

3. One column per week: 

a. What Do I Spend? Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, New York City. 

b. Mrs. Kirk's Handy Expense Card for Housekeepers, The .Mice Gitchell Kirk 

Company, Cleveland, Ohio. 

4. .\ sheet per year; one column per month: 

a. Form given in Brookman's Family Expense Account, D. C. Heath and Com- 

pany. 

b. Statement of Cost of Living, University of California, Berkeley, Cal. (sheets 

for detailed estimates of costs rather than account forms). 



552 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

HIRED MEN'S MEALS 

EMILY ALLEN 

Feeding the hired man is a problem confronting many a farm family. 
Be the hired man ever so pleasant it breaks into the family life to have 
a stranger in the house. The "better to do" farmers are more and more 
coming to hire only married men. They can let them have a house and 
lot as part of their wages. The farmer of more moderate means still 
has the problem of the hired man as a boarder. He should know just 
how much boarding the hired man costs else he will not know when it 
is cheaper to hire a man who can board himself and thus make the 
necessary arrangements for this. 

Of course, on the farm, food is secured at a rate that might be con- 
sidered equal to the price of food at wholesale. The hired man of aver- 
age age is supposed to eat enough food to furnish him 3500 calories of 
fuel per day. Often he eats more than this and sometimes less. Hired 
men feel or express themselves as feeling that about all they get out of 
their job is wages and "feed." Naturally they demand all the wages 
they can command and the very best of food if they can get it. The 
question of food is enough to induce them to leave one place for another. 

Because of this situation the farmer's wife is often forced to prepare 
more elaborate meals and food of a sort that appeals to the particular 
hired man she has to feed, regardless of the tastes and sometimes even 
the needs of her family. The family might sometimes be willing to eat 
a simple meal of mush and berries for supper. Such a meal would 
never do to set before the average hired man. Thirty-five hundred 
calories made from the proper proportion of about 4 ounces of protein, 
4 ounces of fat and 16 ounces of carbohydrates might be secured at as 
reasonable an amount as thirty cents per day exclusive of labor. Since 
the aim of most hired men is not 'eating to live' this sum is hardly 
adequate. 

The following is as simple a day's ration as would satisfy the average 
hired man : 

Breakfast 

Ham and crrs 
Fried mush Jam or syrup 

Baking powder biscuit with butter 
Coffee Cream and sugar 







Dinner 




Roast beef 


Dressing 


Gravy 


Mashed 


1 potato Boiled turnips 






Sliced tomato 




Bread 




Peach butter 
Cherry pie 


Butter 


Coffee 




Cream and sugar 



1916] HIRED men's meals 553 

Supper 

Cold roast beef Pickles 

Mashed potato balls Green peas 

Fried apples Slaw 

Bread Butter 

Sliced peaches Chocolate cake 

The next day this menu might be varied by substituting steak for 
ham and eggs, fried chicken for roast beef, and a beef hash for the cold 
roast beef. Hot rolls might be used to vary the bread, and other 
vegetables and deserts substituted for those named. 

The cost of material for such a fare as this, furnishing 3500 calories 
of food material or more, would be at present values at least sixty cents 
per day. Added to this would be the cost and labor of preparing three 
hot meals a day. If there were a number of persons in the family the 
cost of feeding them might be materially increased. This would make 
the amount to be charged to the hired man's meals often greater than 
the actual amount of food he consumed. 

When teachers of Home Economics are teaching food values in con- 
nection with the feeding of the hired man or day laborers on an eco- 
nomical basis they must remember that the American laborer on the 
farm is an extravagant feeder and looks upon his food as a principal 
part of his pleasure in life. 

It would never do to use many of the cheaper and yet wholesome 
substitutes for more expensive foods when feeding a hired man. Beans 
or any other meat substitute for meat served without the meat would 
begin dissatisfaction, as would liver, and meat dishes made from the 
neck of beef. Hired men want beef steak and good roasts. Dried 
fruits, especially prunes, are looked upon with scorn by the hired man, 
and so is also a cold lunch or supper. Oleomargarine instead of butter, 
and skim milk instead of cream for breakfast foods and coffee would be 
enough to start a riot. Either the hired man must be trained to de- 
mand a simpler diet or, since this is hardly feasible, students of Home 
Economics who are going to meet the problem of feeding the hired man 
must be taught the other factors beside the necessary caloric require- 
ments entering into the plarming of his diet. 

[Miss Allen, the author of this article, is herself the daughter of a farmer and speaks 
from practical experience and obsen'ation. Will not others whose exp)erience has varied 
give us their results? — Editor.) 



554 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

TWO COOPERATIVE VENTURES 

Our readers of two years ago will remember a series of articles on 
Cooperation as directly affecting the household. By lar the most 
successful and interesting of these experiments was the Cooperative Store 
of Montclair, N. J. Its further development and frank statement of 
its problems will therefore be of great interest. This communication 
was contained in a letter from the Rev. Edgar S. Wiers who has been a 
staunch friend and adviser of the enterprise. 

Our cooperative ventures here are plodding along. The store continued a 
succession of poor managers and lost money again last year, so that the 
first of this year its continued existence was really problematic, though last 
year it had done $73,000 of business as against $72,000 the year before. 
The quite unaggressive management had given it liabilities which just about 
equalled its entire assets and we had to consider whether to go on or close up. 

At this juncture we took the bull by the horns and did a rather daring 
thing. We doubled the amount that we had been paying for a manager 
and secured a first class man from Buffalo who has conducted large grocery 
businesses successfully all his life. He has been here since February and has 
accompUshed so much by an active, aggressive policy that we all feel very 
sanguine indeed about the store. Before he came the business was about SI 100 
a week, but it has mounted steadily until now it is running regularly over 
$1800 a week and where it was not giving satisfaction before, it is now giv- 
ing better quality and very advantageous prices and we have just definitely 
engaged our new manager, Mr. Ward, for three years and expect in the 
course of two years to clear off our indebtedness and. really see what co- 
operation can do. The vicissitudes of cooperative enterprise are many, as 
we have found, and it is entirely a question of management. 

The personal attention of Mr. Emerson P. Harris, who has been President 
from the first and is an ardent cooperator of vision and power, is our 
greatest asset and hope. 

News concerning the later-started Cooperative Kitchen in Montclair 
is also welcome. 

The cooperative kitchen has also had an interesting year. Great as were 
the chances against it, launched prematurely as it was, it seems to be strik- 
ing its roots deep enough to continue its existence. This is due almost 
wholly to the fact that the wife of our Superintendent of Schools, Mrs. Bliss, 
has given herself sacrificially to it as Chairman of the House Committee. 
Last August we moved into a very large boarding house with 10 rooms. 
This again was a daring thing, but the correct one. Wc secured a manager 
who looked perfect for a time and until February did excellent work. He 



1916] TWO COOPERATIVE VENTURES 555 

had shortcomings, nothing more, which made it wise to let him withdraw 
as he wished to do then. But he helped to put us on our feet. In moving 
into the large house, we had a great problem to provide equipment, but the 
landlord advanced the money and permits us to pay him by turning over 
half the room rent. 

We found out long ago that the outside service of sending meals into the 
homes is too new a thing to support the institution. The demand is still too 
shght, and so we have continued the boarding house, with outside service 
as an adjunct. Just as soon as we can clear off our indebtedness, we shall 
begin to advertise this feature aggressively. The rise in cost of food is per- 
plexing us now, but every month since last September we have been 
able to make a payment on our indebtedness. The first six months of this 
year we paid $520 oflF on our furniture account and if the present rate con' 
tinues we will pay oflF about $1000 this year and a year hence be clear of our 
indebtedness and own probably $1500 worth of equipment. It is slow but 
sure and we are gaining a standing in the community and have sent out as 
high as 300 meals a month into the homes. We cannot do this yet at a 
reasonable figure. It amounts to 60 or 70 cents per person. We are hoping 
that as our constitution forbids all profits save the 6 per cent to our stock- 
holders and we have only about $1000 of stock out and it specifically desig- 
nates that all profits must be turned to the reduction of our prices, once our 
indebtedness is paid we shall find it possible to send out meals at a figure 
that will cause people of moderate circumstances, or at least others besides 
the wealthy, to make frequent use of it. 

We find that almost nobody depends on the Kitchen for continuous serv- 
ice, but it is used as an emergency resource, which is evidently to be the 
first step of the development of the central kitchen. Thursday afternoons 
when maids are out, the last meals before people leave town and the first 
when they return, and such times, are the occasions on which they turn to 
the Kitchen. We feel that the Kitchen has been unusually fortunate in be- 
ing able to do what it has in the face of what seemed almost insuperable diffi- 
culties, and, though it has gone painfully slowly, every month has marked a 
step forward. 

If things continue another two years as they have the last year and a 
half in the kitchen, we shall probably have something very significant to 
report. The first steps of cooperation are pure plod, the incurring of grave 
and great responsibilities, the facing of scathing criticisms and general mis- 
understanding. When once we get out of the woods, I imagine half the com- 
munity will think they are the people who really accomplished the results. 
Already both Store and Kitchen feel that sentiment is favorable. We are 
hoping that in time we can have a cooperative laundry, perhaps an employ- 
ment agency, perhaps a coal company, perhaps a central dehvery system, 
perhaps a cooperative credit union established here. One of these seems to 
be the next probable step. 



556 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

EDITORIAL 

Some Things for which the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation is Standing. The resolutions passed at the meeting of the 
American Home Economics Association at Ithaca, included one advo- 
cating the passage of the Child Labor Bill. This bill has, since that 
time, passed Congress. 

A second resolution was addressed to the Secretary of Agriculture. 

Whereas, the American Home Economics Association realizing that the 
rapid growth and development of Home Economics in this country is largely 
due to contributions to its subject matter and to the never failing support of 
its work by the United States Department of Agriculture, and 

Whereas, its immediate and further development demands that this serv- 
ice be largely increased, 

Be it resolved: That the American Home Economics Association assembled 
at its annual meeting urges the Honorable, the Secretary of Agriculture to 
further by every possible means the rapid development of the work of the 
office of Home Economics of the States Relations Service. 

At the meeting of the Home Economics Association in connection 
with the N. E. A., it was resolved: 

That the President of the American Home Economics Association be em- 
pov/ered to telegraph to the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture in 
the Senate urging an increased appropriation for the publication of farmers 
bulletins on Home Economics topics, and other Home Economics literature. 
The total supply is wholly inadequate for the teacher of Home Economics who 
needs to obtain bulletins in bulk for use as textbooks by the students. 

Resolutions also urged the passage of the Smith-Hughes and the 
Smoot Bills. 

One of the most important matters brought before the Association 
was expressed in the following resolution: 

Whereas, the wage-earning group engaged in household labor constitutes 
one-fourth of the total wage-earning group among women, and 

Whereas, there are no available data of the hours, wages and remunera- 
tion, and conditions of work of this group, and 

Whereas, such data are urgently needed for the intelligent discussion of 
the problems of labor and family life, 

Be it resolved: That the American Home Economics Association assembled 
at its annual meeting requests the Honorable, the Secretary of Labor of the 



1916] EDITORIAL 557 

United States to take the necessary measures for the collection at the earliest 
possible date of the desired data concerning wage-earning household workers. 

This resolution was sent to the Secretary of Labor and the following 
reply was received from Mr. Royal Meeker, the Commissioner of Labor 
Statistics: 

Your letter addressed to the Secretary of Labor and transmitting resolu- 
tion passed at the recent session of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion, has been referred to me for reply. 

Ever since I took charge of the Bureau of Labor Statistics I have wanted 
to make a thorough investigation into wages, hours, and conditions of work 
among household employees, including in this group hotel and restaurant 
employees. The smalhiess of the appropriations made by Congress to this 
Bureau and the demands of other lines of work already undertaken have 
thus far precluded the possibility of making the investigation. I have, how- 
ever, drawn up a schedule for an investigation into hotel and restaurant 
labor. It was my intention to put agents of this Bureau upon this investiga- 
tion during this present summer, but again extraordinary demands upon this 
Bureau will prevent the making of this investigation at this time. 

You probably know that the Massachusetts State Board of Labor and 
Industries has been authorized by the legislature of that State to investigate 
hotel and restaurant labor. I am doing what I can to assist the Massachu- 
setts Board in this study. 

You will gather from what I have said that I realize the importance of an 
investigation into domestic labor — the field of labor giving employment to by 
far the largest proportion of women workers engaged in gainful occupations. 
I am of the opinion that the surest way of bringing about this much needed 
study is to present the need directly to Congress and to ask for a sufficient 
appropriation to enable the Bureau of Labor Statistics to carry through the 
investigation. If it is left to be taken care of out of the regular appropriation 
for this Bureau, I am afraid what has already happened every year since I 
assumed charge of this Bureau will happen again, namely, other undertakings 
will crowd this investigation off the map. 

Is not the American Home Economics Association the organization 
that should take the lead in carrying out the suggestion made in this 
letter? Here is some defi.nite work directly connected with our own 
aims. Many other organizations would cooperate to bring about such 
an investigation. Shall we work for it? 

The last resolution passed by the Association was one in which every 
member present at Cornell will heartily acquiesce. 



558 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

Resolved: That the American Home Economics Association ofifer to Cornell 
University, and especially to the College of Agriculture, through the Presi- 
dent of the University, its thanks for the delightful hospitality extended to 
the Association during its Ninth Annual Meeting, a hospitality which all 
have appreciated and greatly enjoyed. 

Richards Day. In the November Journal the Home Economics 
Day Committee will present plans for the observance of Richards 
Day, or Home Economics Day, on December 3, the anniversary of the 
birth of Mrs. Richards. Meanwhile we would recommend that those 
who are to observe the day refer to the suggestions printed in the 
Journal, November, 1915. A copy of these suggestions will be sent 
upon request. 

ANNOUNCEMENT 

After October first the Journal ofi&ce will be located in the Medical 
and Chirurgical Faculty Building, 1211 Cathedral Street, where we 
have secured more pleasant and adequate quarters than we now occupy. 

It is hoped that our readers, especially those living in or near Balti- 
more, will make it possible to visit us at an early date. 

Please address all communications to 1211 Cathedral Street, Balti- 
more, Md. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
Journal of PIoue Economics if the Journal price is listed. 



Principles of Correct Dress. By Florence 

Hull Winterburn. New York: Harper 

Bros., 1914, pp. 245. $1.00. By mail of 

the Journal, $1.06. 

The title of this book might well be 
changed to that of Principles of Design for 
Correct Dress. With the emphasis gener- 
ally placed ujxjn perfect technique and the 
production of historic costumes for pageants 
and plays, it is inspiring to find a treatment 
of dress from the design standpoint. 

The first three chapters by Jean Worth 
and the last chapter by Paul Poiret state 
very definitely the various problems which 
dress presents to the designer. 

The intermediate chapters by Florence 
Winterburn interpret these design problenis 
to the amateur dress designer. 

The book, because it has no illustrations, 
is of greatest value only to those readers 
who have had design experience. For in- 
stance, such a statement as, "Such great 
painters as Nattier, Madame Lebrun, Rom- 
ney, Lawrence, and Gainsborough serve 
again and again as aids to the costumier in 
color, design and trimming" means noth- 
ing to one who is not familiar with the work 
of these artists or to one who has no art 
gallery near at hand. 

The people who need just the stimulus 
which this book is planned to give, are the 
very people who will not be reached by it. 

In the chapter entitled Colors for the 
Blondes and Brunettes, the value of study- 
ing the colors used by the masters in the 
finest p)aintings is logically presented but 
fails entirely in its application because the 
reader cannot study Paxton's Sylvia, Sir 
Thomas Lawrence's Miss Baring, Millet's 
Portia, Nattier's Diana and Reynold's Lady 
Walgrave. 



The book is well worth studying as it re- 
lates the subject of costume design to its 
proper art domain. As a result one rises 
above mere patterns and stitches and feels 
the universality of design princip)les, the 
mode of interpreting these principles em- 
ployed by the different nations, the influ- 
ence of public events upon fashions of the 
hour and the effect of well designed cos- 
tumes upon the individual. 

Ethelwyn Miller. 

Household Arts and School Lunches. By 
Alice C. Bouguton. New York City: 
Russell Sage Foundation, 1916, pp. 170. 
$0.25. 

This book, "the first separate report on 
household arts made by any school survey," 
has something in it for every teacher of 
every branch of that many-sided subject, 
Home Economics, for every school officer, 
and every member of a school board. It 
is about Cleveland, to be sure, for it is 
part of the report of the Educational Sur- 
vey of that city conducted by the Russell 
Sage Fouhdation, and its specific recom- 
mendations and criticisms have local appli- 
cation. So far, however, as it calls House- 
hold Arts, as now presented in the schools, 
to defend themselves and prove their use- 
fulness to the twentieth century woman, and 
to twentieth century society, it is of in- 
terest to every thinking person. It may 
not speak the final word in the engaging 
discussion with reference to the difference 
between housekeeping and homemaking or 
on the subject of the "relation of household 
arts to education" whether elementary or 
secondary. 

It is, however, written from a new point 
of view and new points of view are to be 

559 



560 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[October 



sought on a subject specially designed for the 
education of a sex whose responsibilities and 
opportunities are rapidly changing, if not 
(as some of us think and others ridicule us 
for thinking) enlarging. 

Household arts, or domestic science, or 
home economics, or what you will, as now 
taught, came into the educational system at 
a time when it was even more exclusively 
man-directed than at present, and the fact 
that women were largely in charge of the de- 
tails of administration did not prevent it 
from reflecting the masculine point of view 
on women's education. Woman has in the 
past made man comfortable and furthered 
his work by certain activities. These, in 
the opinion of many educators, she should 
be encouraged to continue, and she should 
perfect herself in them. Now it is an open 
question whether woman ser%'es more suc- 
cessfully if her energies are directed into 
time-honored channels than if she takes up 
new forms of work, and her point of xiew is 
needed on this matter. In order to think 
straight on the subject she must get out into 
the world among people and see what is 
being done there. "Seeing," of course, in 
these days of complex relationships, means 
stud>'ing under expert direction, and right 
here we have one secret of the value of this 
book. 

Turning to the last page, which contains a 
short sketch of the writer's life, we find that 
she has added to her technical training in 
household arts and her long experience as an 
administrator of school lunches a course of 
study in economics and sociology and that 
the report is her doctor's thesis. This gives 
point to her statement: "The Cleveland 
teachers arc distinguished by their enthusi- 
astic faith in household arts as being of 
vital imjKirtance in the education of every 
girl. They think of their subject as one 
which is not only expanding rapidly, but 
is also markedly increasing in public favor. 
They want to keep abreast with it and sac- 
rifice their vacations for summer school 
work, but they do not go afield and arc 
almost never found in courses in sociology, 
economics, or social and industrial history. 



The courses they choose are in their own 
sp>ecialty and most frequently are those 
which deal with highly technical phases of 
it." (p. 90.) 

Readers will diCTer as V> the specific rec- 
ommendations and conclusions of this re- 
port, but they can hardly fail to agree that 
it will do valiant ser\'ice in making us stop 
and ask whither we are going in this matter 
of Home Economics teaching, and if, when all 
things are taken into consideration, we are 
faced in the right direction. 

C.\ROLrNE L. Hunt. 



The Nutrition of a Household. By Edwin 
Tenney Brewster and Lilian Brew- 
ster. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Com- 
pany, 1915, pp. 208. $1.00. By mail 
of the Journal, $1.08. 
"A housekeeper getting twenty-one meals 
a week with her own hands, and a house- 
holder whose natural masculine interest in 
machines extended to the stoking of his 
own bodilj engine, have set down as much 
of the modem theory of animal nutrition 
as they have themselves found it practically 
convenient to know. Lusk and Voit and 
Rubner and the Department of .\gricul- 
ture — boiled down — and put — into form for 
the non-technical reader." 

This condensed quotation from the preface 
to The Nutrition of a IJouschold fairly de- 
scribes a book which seems to the reviewer 
a valuable contribution to the literature of 
Home Economics. Anyone who has even a 
slight acquaintance with Lusk and Voit and 
Rubner and the Department of Agricul- 
ture will agree at once that the authors 
have set themselves a large task but not 
only the investigators named but a number 
of others, as far as their work bears on liie 
matter in hand, really have been boiled 
down and scr\-cd up in fairly non-technical 
and very interesting language. Food and 
its functions are discussed from the usual 
standfKjinls with the emphasis on economics 
and energy. The chapter headings are in 
character with the general style of the book: 
The Human Machine; What all the World 



1916] 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



561 



b Eating; A Thousand Food Units for a 
Dime, and others. 

It may be that the very purp>ose of such 
a book makes it impossible to avoid certain 
statements that arc not strictly accurate, 
such as "all else over and above our daily 
needs, no matter what its source, we con- 
vert into fat" (p. 71); and "We employ some 
150-200 calories to digest food" (p. 36); 
and such unproved generalizations as the 
following: "There is no sort of foodstuff 
which forms muscle which does not equally 
form brain, nerves, etc." (p. 15); and 
"About all the real work we get out of 
protein is the slightly more than half as 
much sugar which we make from it. The 
remainder, which contains the amine radical, 
gives rise to various harmful products, 
among them uric acid, which is the probable 
cause of gout and of some forms of rheuma- 
tism" (p. 91). The latter part of the state- 
ment last quoted is however misleading, as 
are the following: "The amine radical (in 
normal metabolism) drops down through a 
score of different compounds, none of them 
wholesome and many of them poisonous. 
When protein elimination goes wrong, we 
get — auto-intoxication, rheumatism, gout, 
hardened arteries, premature old age. Even 
at best we risk ptomain poisoning and sun- 
stroke" (p. 98). "The special flavor of meat 
and fish are due to — the decomposition 
products of the working muscle — more of 
those troublesome amino bodies which arise 
from all protein food" (p. 110-111) — the 
gouty and rheumatic, who are being poisoned 
by their own protein derivatives" (p. 111). 

The last two statements rather discount 
the recommendations (p. 112) of soup as 
putting "a tired diner into a state of mind 
and body to utilize the thousand or more 
(calories) that follow it," for the soup is 
likely to be simply an extraction of the 
"poisonous" protein derivatives. 

The sections open to such criticisms as 
these, however, do not form a large part of 
the book, which is, as has been said, a 
valuable one. It is vigorous and concise in 
style; it holds the attention; it brings recent 
developments in nutrition within the reach 



of any housekeeper with fair training in 
chemistrj' and physiology and a fair knowl- 
edge of the science of food. It is a book 
that will repay study and one that exten- 
sion workers will find especially welcome 
among the better informed women whom 
they ser\-e. 

RtTTH Wheeler. 

AfUk atid Milk Products in the Home. By 

John Michels. Farmingdale, N. Y.: 

1915, pp. 100. $0.75. Hy mail of the 
Journal, $0.81. 

This book is "intended for students in 
Home Economics and for housekeepers in 
general." Those who insist upon so-called 
"straight science rather than adapted" 
chemistry or physics or bacteriology will 
find their opinion confirmed by a perusal of 
this book. In such adaptations, it is diflB- 
cult to avoid sacrificing accuracy to sim- 
plicity — a sacrifice that is found repeatedly 
in this book. Students are so prone to 
careless thinking that it is a pity to give 
them in print (always over-respected) such 
encouragement as the following: "heat and 
energy;" "heat destroys the soluble lime;" 
"water — a conductor of — cold." 

In the light of present knowledge, it is 
misleading to read that "(milk) albumin 
closely resembles casein in composition" 
unless elementary composition is specified; 
also that "the chief purpose of ash is to 
build bones, teeth, and blood" (p. 12); that 
"milk contains all the elements necessary to 
life in the proper proiwrtion" (p. 13); that 
"the superior digestibility of butter is due 
to the large percentage of soluble fats;" 
that "the enzymes of milk are responsible 
for the increased digestibility of other 
foods when taken in conjunction with milk" 
(p. 12); that "lactic acid organisms exert a 
favorable influence in the intestine" (p. 21). 
Many similar examples might be given. 

The information is in many sections so 
meager as to leave even a beginner dissat- 
isfied. It is to be earnestly hoped that later 
editions will more fully meet the great need 
that e.xists for a book on this subject. 

RxjTH Wheeler. 



562 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

BOOKS RECEIVED 

Household Arls and School Lunches. By Alice C. Boughton. Cleveland, Oh ..: The Survey 
Committee of the Cleveland Foundation, 1916, pp. 170. $0.25. 

Iluman Physiology. By Percy Goldthwait Stiles. Philadelphia: W. B. Saunders Co., 1916, 
pp. 405. $1.50. 

A Laboratory ^fanual of Foods atid Cookery. By Emma B. Matteson and Ethel M. New- 
lands. New York: The Macmillan Co., 1916, pp. 325. $1.50. 

Milk and Its Hygienic Relations. By Janet E. Lane-Clayp>on. New York: Longmans, 
Green, and Co., 1916, pp. 348. $2.50. 

Second Pan American Scientific Congress: The Final Act and Interpretative Commentary Tliereon. 
Prepared by James Brown Scott. Washington: Government Printing Office, 1916, pp. 
516. 

PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

The Baby. N. Dak. Agr. Exp. Sta. Spec. Bui. June 1916. Vol. 4, no. 5, pp. 97-132. 
Clothing the Family. By Mary A. Ditmas. New York AssociatioD for Improving the 

Condition of the Poor, 1916, pp. 19. 
Cook Book. By Kaslo Women's Institute, Kaslo, B. C, Can., 1916, pp. 40. 
Denver Federation for Charity and Philanthropy. Summary Report of Field Survey. By 

Institute for Public Service, New York, 1916, pp. 32. 
Hospital Diets aiul Their Relation to the Treatment of Certc'n Diseases. By E. Grace Mc- 
Cullough. Reprinted from the Canadian Medical .\ssociation Journal, May, 1916, 
pp. 21. 
House Heating. By J. L. Mowry. St. Paul, Minn.: University of Minnesota, Jan. 1916, 

pp. 15. (Minnesota Farmer's Library Agr. Ext. Bui. 60.) 
Hou< to Enter the Child Welfare Movement Among the Tkird-Class Cities of Kansas. Law- 
rence, Kansas: Dept. of Child Welfare, Univ. Ext. Div., pp. 8. 
Industrial Art at Home and Abroad. By James Parton Haney. New York: The Prang 

Co., 1916, pp. 15. 
Lighting Farm Buildings. By J. L. Mowry. St. Paul, Minn.: Univ. of Minnesota Col- 
lege of Agr., Ext. Div., Dec. 1915, pp. 8 (Minn. Farmer's Librar)' Agr. Ext. Bui. 58). 
Programs for Study Clubs in Home Economics. By the N. Y. State College of Agr. at Cornell 
Univ. Ithaca, N. Y.: Nov. 1, 1915, pp. 36-55. (Cornell Reading Courses. Course for 
the Farm Home, vol. 5, no. 99.) 
Same Aspects of Home Use of Proprietaries with Children. By Theodore C. Merrill, M.D. 

Reprinted from American Journal of Public Health, Boston, Mass., vol. 6, no. 5. 
The Uses of the Peanut on the Home Table. By Jessie P. Rich. (Bulletin of the University 

of Texas, 1915, no. 13, pp. 15. 
What We Shoidd All Know about Our Streets. By Mrs. Julius Henry Cohen. Woman's 
Municipal league of the City of New York, 1916, pp. 16. 



1916] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 563 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODIC.\L LITEK-\TURE 
Contributions to the Bibliography are welcomed. Please send noaterial to the Journal. 

Foods and Cookery 

Inorganic Phosphorus in Animal and \'egetable Substances. E. B. Forbes and F. M. 
Beegle, Jour. Assoc. Official Agr. Chem., 1 (1916), pp. 562-580. (.\nalytical methods.) 

Report on Cocoa and Cocoa Products. H. C. Lythgoe, Jour. Assoc. Official Agr. Chem., 
1 (1916), pp. 550-552. 

Report on Tea and Coffee. J. M. Bartlett, Jour. Assoc. Official Agr. Chem., 1 (1916), 
pp. 552-556. 

Report on Heavy Metals in Foods. E. L. P. Trenthardt, Jour. Assoc. Official Agr. Chem., 
1 (1916), pp. 580-589. 

Improved Methods for Fat Analysis. E. B. Holland, J. C. Reed, and J. P. Buckley, 
Afass. Agr. Expt. Sta. Bui. 166 (1915), pp. 91-138. 

Ice Cream Making. A. C. Baer, Wisconsin Sta. Bui. 262 (1916), pp. 36, figs. 4. 

How to Grow the Peanut and 105 Ways of Preparing It for Human Consumption. G. 
W. Carver, Alabama Tuskegec Sla. Bui. 31 (1916), pp. 35. 

Chemical and Physical Constants for Wheat and Mill Products. E. F. Ladd, North 
Dakota Sta. Bui. 114 (1916), pp. 272-297, figs. 9. 

Electric Cooking in a Cafeteria. B. E. Hannon, Jour. Electricity, 36 (1916), no. 15, pp. 
280, 281, figs. 2. 

(Report of Indiana Food and Drug Laboratory.] H. E. Barnard, Ind. Bd. Health Ann. 
Rpt. Cliem. Div. Lab. Ilyg., 9 (1915), pp. 1-153, figs. 39. 

[Food and Drug Analysis.] R. E. Rose and L. Heimburger, Fla. Quart. Bui. Dept. Agr., 
26 (1916), no. 1, pp. 8-11, 132-145. 

[Food and Drug Inspection and Analysis.] R. M. Allen, Kentucky Sta. Food and Drugs 
Bien. Rpt., 8 (1913-1915), pp. 1-12, 26-44. 

Flavor in Ice Cream. The Physiology of Taste and Its Bearing on Ice Cream Flavors- 
Factors Controlling Flavor. O. E. Williams, N. Y. Produce Review atul Amer. Creamery, 
42 (1916), no. 10, pp. 402-105. 

Chemical Changes in the Souring of Milk. L. L. Van Slyke and A. W. Bosworth, New 
York State Sta. Tech. Bui. 48 (1916), pp. 12; Jour. Biol. Chem., 24 (1916), no. 3, pp. 191-202. 

The Chemical Constitution of the Proteins of Wheat Flour and Its Relation to Baking 
Strength. M. J. Blish, Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., 8 (1916), no. 2, pp. 138-144. 

Slimy and Ropy Milk. R. E. Buchanan and B. W. Hammer, Iowa Sta. Research Bui. 
22 (1915), pp. 207-295, figs. 10. 

Physiology and Nutrition 

Foodstuffs. D. Sommerville, Jour. Roy. Soc. Arts, 63 (1915) ,nos. 3277, pp. 893-903; 3278, 
pp. 909-921; 3279, pp. 925-932; 3280, pp. 937-943. A series of four lectures on the prin- 
ciples of nutrition in the light of recent investigations. 

Nutrition. T. B. Osborne and L. B. Mendel, Carnegie Inst. Washington Year Book, 14 
(1915), pp. 378-384. A summary of the results of investigations of the vegetable proteins. 

The Influence of Fat and Carbohydrate on the Excretion of Endogenous Purins in the 
Urine of Dog and Man. N. Umeda, Biochem. Jour., 9 (1915), no. 4, pp. 421-438. 

The Influence of Carbohydrate and Fat on Protein Metabohsm with Special Reference 
to the Output of Sulphur. K. Tsuji, Biochem. Jour., 9 (1915), no. 4, pp. 439-448. 



564 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

Pellagra: Causation and a Method of Prevention. J. Goldberger, Jour. Amer. Med. 
Assoc, 66 (1916), no. 7, pp. 471-476. 

Acidosis and Some of the Factors Which Influence It. R. M. Lang, Biochem. Jour., 9 
(1915), no. 4. pp. 456-478. 

(Report of the Carnegie] Nutrition Laboratory. F. G. Benedict, Carnegie Inst. Wash- 
ington Year Book, 14 (1915), pp. 295-310. 

Acceleration of Growth .After Retardation. T. B. Osborne, L. B. Mendel, Edna L. 
Ferry, and \. J. Wakeman, Amcr. Jour. Physiol., 40 (1916), no. 1, pp. 16-20, pis. 2. 

The Physiology of the Newborn Infant. Character and Amount of the CataboUsm. 
F. G. Benedict and F. B. Talbot, Carnegie Inst. Washington Pub. 233 (1915) ,pp. 126, figs. 10, 

Recent Observations in the Use of Soy Bean in Infant Feeding. J. F. Sinclair, N. Y. 
State Jour. Med., 16 (1916), no. 2, pp. 83-88. 

Fasting Studies. — XI\', The Elimination of Urinary Indican During Two Fasts of Over 
100 Days Each. C. P. Shervvin and P. B. Hawk, Biochem. Bui., 3 (1914), no. 11-12, pp. 
416^19. 

Hygiene and S.\nitation 

Health of Garment Workers. The Relation of Economic Status to Health. J. W. 
Schereschewsky, Pub. Health Rpt., 31 (1916), no. 21, pp. 1298-1305. 

The Possible Role of Books in the Dissemination of the Contagious Diseases. C. A. 
Laubach, Bui. Johns Hopkins Hosp., 27 (1916), p. 183. 

The Electrical Treatment of Milk for Infant Feeding. J. M. Beattie, Jour. State Med., 
24 (1916), pp. 97-113. 

The Transportation of Insects with Special Reference to Disease Carriers. V. L. Kellogg, 
Jour. Social. Med., 17 (1916), no. 3, pp. 149-162. 

The Control of Traffic Sewage. Leshe C. Frank, Jour. Social. Med., 17 (1916), no. 3, 
pp. 140-148. 

The Disease Carrier on Train and Steamboat. W. A. Sawyer, Jour. Sociol. Med., 17 
(1916), no. 3, pp. 131-140. 

The Inhibiting .\ction of Certain Spices on the Growth of Micro-Organisms. Freda M. 
Bachmann, Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chcm., 8 (1916), no. 7, pp. 620-623. 

Sanitation and the Control of Pellagra. C. T. Nesbitt, Jour. Amer. Med. .Assoc. ,66 
<1916), no. 9, pp. 647, 648. 

The Bacterial l-'xamination of Sausages and Its Sanitary Significance. W. E. Car)', 
Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 6 (1916), no. 2, pp. 124-135. 

Miscellaneous 

Training the Hospital Dietitian. Ahce U. Fewell, Amer. Jour. Nursing, 16 (1916), no. 
10, pp. 970-974. 

Our Night Nurses' Supper. Mary A. Lindslcy, Amer. Jour. Nursing, 16 (1916), no. 10, 
pp. 981-984. (A small cafeteria.) 

Real Food Economy. Ernestine Mills, The Englishwoman, 30 (1916), no. 89, pp. 151- 
158. 

Wcdfling Ilx|>cnscs in Tudor Times, 1526-1530. Jennctt Humphreys, Tht Englishwoman, 
30 (1916), no. 90, i)p. 257-263. 

The Child and Its Care. Nealc S. Knowlcs, Louise H. Campbell, and Mabel C. Bentley, 
Iowa Si'Ue Col. Agr. Ext. Dept., Home Econ. Btd. 2 (1915-16,) pp. 32, figs. 14. 

School Lunches. Caroline L. Hunt and Mabel Ward, U. S. Dept. A p.. Farmers' Bui. 
712 (1916), pp. 27. 

Undergraduate Budgets. Ada L. Comstock, Smith Alumna Quart., 7 (1916), no. 2, i>p. 
«l-86. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



Nebraska Child Welfare. The Child 
Welfare work at the Nebraska State Fair 
added this year an important section, the 
examination of children who are below nor- 
mal. The work of previous years had been 
the scoring of the best babies. The Child 
Welfare booth had been for years one of the 
most popular places on the grounds but it 
was felt that it did not reach the children 
most in need of help. Dr. Sophie Hinze 
Scott of Des Moines, la., was in charge of 
this new section. Mrs. LeMar of Osceola, 
Nebraska, was in charge of the entire work, 
and Miss .-^lice Loomis, of the University of 
Nebraska, was one of the helpers. 

The Woman's Club work In the Exten- 
sion Division of the University of Ne- 
braska has a unique organization and one 
that is unusually satisfactory. Mrs. Emma 
Reed Davisson is in charge of this work. 
Her province is the bringing to the women 
of Nebraska all that the University can 
ofifer along Home Economics lines through 
Club study. In the past year three hun- 
dred clubs have been assisted, one hundred 
twelve of which are purely rural. Rural is 
here applied to only those communities that 
are outside of any village however small. 
Some of the women come thirty miles to a 
meeting. This work is, in many cases, " the 
follow-up" of the one week continuation 
schools that were held last year. 

The assistance consists in helping clubs 
to organize and in furnishing them sugges- 
tions and material for study. Through co- 
oi>eration with the State Circulating Li- 
brary, a Home Economics Library has been 
made available. There have not been 
enough of these libraries to supply the de- 
mand since the courses of study have been 
issued. This librarian and Mrs. Da\isson 
also send out interesting readings for clubs 



not wishing to prepare a program. Usually 
the next year a club will undertake a mis- 
cellaneous program or the program for the 
study of Nebraska. Later on they take up 
special lines of study and work. Many of 
the clubs are doing splendid pieces of civic 
work. A civic outline and material on Child 
Welfare have been particularly useful. 
Mrs. Davisson's work for Home Welfare 
has been recognized by the State Federa- 
tion of Clubs in which she is Home Eco- 
nomics chairman. She is also president of 
the Nebraska Home Economics Associa- 
tion. This summer she studied Pediatrics 
in Harvard medical school. All indications 
are that the Child Welfare work is one of 
the most needed. Through the coopera- 
tion of a number of agencies, the depart- 
ment is able to keep in close touch with both 
the desires and needs of the home makers 
of the state. With these in mind the work 
is expanded each year. 

The Summer Session of the School of 
Practical Arts, Teachers College, Co- 
lumbia University, brought together the 
largest number of students in household arts 
in the history of the institution. Four hun- 
dred and fifty separate registrations were 
made in the courses in foods and cookery, 
about 100 in dietetics courses and as many 
in the economics of the household, including 
a graduate group of twenty, and there were 
similar large registrations in all of the house- 
hold arts departments. The School of 
Practical .^rts offered altogether in its de- 
partments of households arts, fine arts, 
industrial arts, music, and physical educa- 
tion, 312 points of instruction; and there 
were over 5500 points registered by the 
summer students. .\n average student 
program is 6 points. 

565 



566 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[October 



Pratt Institute, School of Household 
Science and Arts. It is often recognized 
that the average Xorraal School or College 
student majoring in household science be- 
gins to teach cooking with little or no per- 
sonal experience in the actual preparation 
and ser\ing of family meals. 

This lack of experience was taken by 
Pratt Institute as the keynote for the sum- 
mer work required of all returning students 
in the Normal Household Science course. 
In order to become a fully accepted senior, 
therefore, every student who has passed her 
junior examinations must have carried out 
in detail before September 20, 1916, the fol- 
lowing schedule: 

Required: The serving of three meals 
daih' for a family of not less than four per- 
sons for fourteen consecutive days. This 
to include: 

a. Menu making. 

h. Purchase of all food supplies. 

c. Preparation of all food served, except 
that baker's bread may be used once a day, 
preferably in toast. 

d. Washing of all dishes and utensils in 
the preparation of food. The washing of 
dishes and silver used on the dining table 
may be partly or wholly done by someone 
else. 

e. Keeping records as follows: 

1. All menus, with number of persons 
served, total cost and per capita cost. Each 
menu to be dated, signed, and name of town 
and state given. 

2. Staple price list, a copy of staples be- 
ing given each student and prices filled in as 
used, price variations being noted wherever 
signified. 

3. Recipes that are new and good to be 
put on separate index cards. 

4. Conditions of work. 

5. Record on one card giving the following 
data: 

a. Average numlx:r eating each meal. 

b. Total food cost for the 42 meals. 

c. Per capita daily cost. 

6. Points for observation. 

During the fourteen days the student is 
exempt from preparing the evening meal on 



Sundays and on any one other night each 
week, but must buy for and plan these 
meals and include in all rep.-irts. 

Where the student has a family of seven 
or more to cook for she may have help in 
all dish washing and may use her own dis- 
cretion as to buying bread, reporting 
accordingly. 

The Home Economics Association of 
Philadelphia has planned, for the coming 
year, to have the various committees in 
charge of the different meetings, with the 
chairman of another committee acting as 
hostess. The first fall meeting will be given 
over to the report from Cornell, and the 
History of Home Economics in Philadelphia. 
Each committee will procure the speaker 
for the evening. The committee on School 
Feeding is planning to show a "MoWe" of 
the Luncheon System of the Philadelphia 
Public Schools, both high and elementar>'. 
So, throughout the year each committee 
will have interesting "attractions." 

The Connecticut Home Economics As- 
sociation held its annual meeting in New 
London, in May, with Miss Maud E. Hayes 
presiding. 

Mr. IL S. Hitchcock gave an interesting 
address on the Vocational School, and Miss 
Elizabeth Sprague spoke in the interests of 
extension work in Home Economics. 

.\fter the meeting the members made a 
tour of inspection through the Vocational 
School and, later in the day, visited the 
Connecticut College for Women. 

The fall meeting of the association will be 
held in Hartford. 

During the coming year the association 
plans to make a survey of the teachers 
throughout the state, and what they arc 
doing in Home Economics work. 

Detroit Home Economics Association 
1916-1917. Saturday, Sc|>tcnilK:r 9, H.i;it 
Club Luncheon; Wednesday, (XIoIkt 18, 
Round Tabic, Scripps Library; Wednesday, 
November 15, Mmc. Madeleine Bourdon, 
Library; Wednesday, December 6, Social, 



1916] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



567 



Miss Grant's home; Saturday, January 20, 
Paulina Raven, Federation Building; Wed- 
nesday, February 21, Social, Miss Harvey's 
home; Wednesday, March 21, Annual 
meeting, Scripps Library; Wednesday, April 
18, to be announced; Wednesday, May 16, 
Geo. Austin, "Weights and Measures;" June, 
Annual picnic. 

The Homemakers' Club of Quebec. 
The recent convention of delegates from the 
Homemakers' Club of Quebec at Mac- 
donald College deserves more than passing 
mention. WTien forty intelligent women 
from the rural communities, imbued with a 
common spirit, come together to discuss 
measures for the improvement of conditions 
affecting the welfare of their homes, their 
schools, and their country, something valu- 
able is sure to come out of the deliberations. 

The progress of the Homemakers' Clubs 
in this province under the direction of Miss 
Campbell has been steady, and the results 
accompished have been very satisfactory. 
Since the outbreak of the war, however, the 
direction of their efforts has been to some 
extent changed, much attention being given 
to Red Cross and other patriotic forms of 
work. Nevertheless, time has been found 
to deal with many matters of public inter- 
est, such as the improvement of the school 
house and school grounds where the children 
spend most of their time between the ages 
of six and fourteen. 

It is encouraging to note the organization 
of the rural women at this time, for un- 
doubtedly after the war their services will be 
required in many matters of reconstruction. 
The motto of the Clubs, "For Home and 
Country," is significant of the scope of their 
efiforts, and the reports read at the Conven- 
tion brought out clearly the many good 
works that have been done by the women 
•during the past year. — Jour. Agr. and Hart. 

Dietitians for Red Cross Work. ]Miss 
Jane Delano, Chairman of the National 
Committee of the Red Cross Nursing serv- 
ice in Washington, has recently appointed 
Miss Emma H. Gunther of Teachers Col- 



lege, Columbia University, Chairman of a 
special committee to pass upon the selec- 
tion of dietitians for hospital units in Red 
Cross work. The other members of the 
committee arc Miss Isabel E. Lord, Pratt 
Institute; Miss Annie George, Dietitian, 
Mount Sinai Hospital, N. Y.; Miss Annie 
Goodrich, Nursing and Health Depart- 
ment, Teachers College. 

A special application for enrollment blank 
is sent on request to any dietitian, who re- 
quests a statement regarding her training, 
any experience as dietitian she has had, and 
also any other preparation she has had 
which she feels fits her for this special kind 
of work. Later, if the committee has passed 
favorably upon the applicant, physical ex- 
amination blanks together with immunity 
blanks are sent to be filled out. 

These dietitians, if appointed as members 
of hospital units, shall be counted as one of 
the 50 nurses, and will receive the same 
salary as that allowed nurses — $50 a month. 
Their duties include the preparation of 
special diets. Great importance is attached 
to this position of dietitian, and she should 
be one wcU-fitted to meet the many and 
varied responsibilities that she is likely to 
have to assume. 

Mrs. Lizzie Merrill Palmer, the widow 
of Senator Palmer of Michigan, has be- 
queathed the residue of her estate amount- 
ing to approximately $1,000,000 "for the 
founding, endowing, and maintenance in 
the city of Detroit or the township of 
Greenfield, of a school to be known as the 
Merrill Palmer Motherhood and Home 
Training School, at which, under such 
plan and system and under such rules and 
regulations as shall, in the judgment and 
wisdom of those upon whom the administra- 
tion of this estate shall devolve, be adopted, 
girls arid young women of the age of 10 
years and upwards shall be developed, edu- 
cated, trained, and disciplined with special 
reference to training them mentally, mor- 
ally, physically, and religiously for the dis- 
charge of the function of wifehood and 
motherhood and the management, super- 
vision, and inspiration of the home." 



568 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[October 



The will provides that girls who are un- 
able or unwilling to pay the cost of their 
board at the school shall be educated free of 
charge. 

"I hold profoundly the conviction that 
the welfare of any community is divinely 
and hence inseparably dependent upon the 
qualities of its motherhood and the spirit 
and charity of its homes," the will states. 

The School of Home Economics of 
Battle Creek, Michigan, is to liave a 
booth illustrating its work at the exhibition 
to be held in conjunction with the golden 
jubilee celebration of the Battle Creek Sani- 
tarium, October 3, 4 and 5. 

Brief Notes. Some additions to the 
University of Illinois faculty are as follows: 
Miss DeGarmo of Agnes Scott College, At- 
lanta, is to be instructor in Dietetics. 
Miss Larueda Perry, who has her Ph.D. 
in Economics from Bryn Mawr, has been 
added to the stafi as "Associate", making 
the University "better prepared than 
ever to take care of the Economics of the 
Family." 

Miss Jean MacKinnon, formerly of 
Ames, Iowa, has had charge of the food 
work in the summer session and is to be 
instructor in Foods the coming year. 



Miss Olive Percival, assisted by Mr. 
Floyd Fogel, will be in charge of the 
University of Illinois Home F.conomics car 
that is being overhauled and improved 
to more fully serve its purpose, and that 
is to start out in September. 

Miss Helen Knowlton, formerly teacher 
of Science In the public schools of Spring- 
field, Mass., and for four years instructor 
in the Department of Home Economics, 
Cornell University, has been appointed 
Dean of Women and in Charge of the 
Department of Home Economics at the 
State College, Durham, N. H. in place 
of Miss Nellie E. Goldthwaite whose 
resignation took place at the close of the 
year. 

Mrs. Joseph C. Gawler of Denver, 
Colorado, has been chosen chairman of 
the Home Economics Committee of the 
General FeJeration of Women's Clubs, 
in place of Miss Helen Louise Johnson. 

Miss Johnson has done a piece of 
remarkable work in her two years service 
of the clubs, and has brought Home 
Economics to the front in Federation 
affairs in a way that should be appreci- 
ated by the American Home Economics 
Association. 



Vol. VIII, Xo. 11 XOVE^rBER, 1016 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs. Alice P. Norton, Editor Keturah E. Baldwin, Managing RUlor 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel A.v.sa Barrow.s C. F. Lancworthy Isabel Ely Lord 

ExOJficio A/em^erj— Catharine J. MacKav, PresiJent .\mcrican Home Economics .Association 
EuuA H. GiNTHER. Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Ruth Wheeler. Chairman Science Section 
Neale S. Knowles, Chairman Extension Education Section 

ColUhorjtor^ — The Officers. Members of the Council, and Advisers 



CONTENTS 

The Home and the Comminity 1 . /?. Mann 569 

The Sanitation of Food Stores and Markets Donald B. Armstrong Sll 

Practicable Ways of Increasing the Iron-Content of the Diit . . Caroline L. Hunt 584 

Some Colored Schools of the Soitii Kale lircic Vaughn 588 

The Hssi.ntiai. Questions 5<jl 

Home Economics Day, 1916 592 

International Interests in Home Economics Hnijamiii R. Andrcxcs 595 

For the Ho.memaker 597 

The Making of a Home Library Martha F. Emerson 597 

Recipes for Iron-Rich Dishes Caroline L. Hunt 6(B 

Stammering and its Correction in the Home ... Ernest Tompkins 606 

Editorial (308 

Announcements r>()9 

Question Box 611 

Comment and Discussion 612 

Books AND Literature CI 3 

Bibliography of Home Economics 617 

News from the Field 019 



The Journal of Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association. 
$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.25. SLNGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on New York, E.tpress Order or Postal Money Order, payable 
to the American Home Economics .Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CH.-\XGE IN .ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which the 
change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old .\ddress saould be clearly indicated in addition to the New .-Vddress. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post Office 




Ui 



u 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. VIII NOVEMBER, 1916 No. 11 

THE HOME AND THE COMMUNITY' 

A. R. MANN 
Professor of Rural Social Organization, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 

Your president has asked me to present a \'iew of the community as 
the larger family group, and to discuss community life as an expan- 
sion of home ideals. You have spent the past four days in a some- 
what strenuous consideration of practical problems in much detail. 
The topic which has been assigned to me invites large play of the imagi- 
nation and admits of much resort to idealism; and we shall be interested 
in it from the standpoint of a few principles involved rather than as to 
practical details. 

Why may we regard community relations as an expansion of home 
ideals? Family ideals represent accumulated and refined group ideals. 
We can rest our case for the community better on group ideals than we 
can on personal or individual ideals. Not that personal idealism is not 
a condition devotedly to be sought in all society; but such ideals, being 
individual, may be at variance with one another and may need to be 
brought into harmony with those of other members of the group and 
be tested by their applicability to the whole society. Community life 
is a "problem" for discussion today partly because our common rela- 
tions and experiences in society have been left so largely to individual 
impulse, to the pursuit of personal ideals often untested and unfortified 
by reliable thought and experience. Every conflict in society is a con- 
flict of ideals and interests. The more reasoned the ideals, and the more 
fit they are to be the ideals of the whole body of persons affected, the 

^ Presented at the Ninth Annual Meeting of the Americaxi Home Economics Association, 
Ithaca, N, Y., 1916. 

569 



570 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

larger the group which can be brought under them and the fewer the 
persons on the outside who are antagonistic. Ideals which are the 
fruitage of painstaking investigation and deliberation, which are the 
outcome of intelligent consideration of all phases of our common wel- 
fare, and which have the acceptance of the group, are the forces which 
help to draw us forward in our community experience. It is the insist- 
ence on personal ideals which rest on neither reliable knowledge, reliable 
thinking, nor reliable experience, which retards human progress. One 
of the problems of civilization is to decrease the number and vigor of 
the latter sort of ideals, and progressively to increase the number and 
the vigor of the former sort. 

Validity in ideals as in many other things lies on the side of the har- 
mony of many rather than the irresponsible pursuit of that which dis- 
regards the many. Not that anyone should drift with the crowd; a 
drifter has no impelling ideals. But, when one undertakes to set up his 
ideals against those of the group, he is under the necessity of justifying 
his independent stand and showing why it should become the position 
of the group as well as of himself. Our large internal problems in this 
country, as elsewhere, have their rise in part in the abandonment of our 
group life and activity to the pursuit of untested and unproved personal 
ideals, impulses, and ambitions. The condition to be sought is the 
maximum of individual liberty which at the same time is compatible 
with the welfare of the whole group. 

This is the condition that obtains in the well-regulated family. It is 
in the family par excellence that we find the conformity of individual 
ideals and motives to the welfare of the group. We know all too well 
what occurs when the members of a family follow their several wills in 
disregard of the wills and rights and interests of each other. We have 
long since pronounced anathema on all such. We have been slow to 
realize, indeed we have not yet fully realized, the lamentable disruption 
which results from precisely this condition in the greater family which 
we may call the community or the nation. As in the normal family 
the restraint of the indixidual works for the best good of all while not 
unduly hampering anyone, so in society is there a pronounced need for 
the api)lication of a similar code, resting on the principle of each for 
all and all for each. 

We have spoken of the normal family. If we are to draw an analogy 
between the community and the family group and think of the com- 
munity as the larger faniily group, we must first project our notion o^ 



1916] THE HOME AND THE COMMUNITY 571 

the family which is to be our standard of comparison; and in so doing 
we are likely at the same time to detect the intimacy of the relation and 
the sensitivity of the reactions between the family unit and the com- 
munity. 

In the recent book on The Family as a Social and Educational Institu- 
tion, Dr. Goodsell points out that perhaps the characteristic of the 
twentieth-century family which most sharply challenges the attention of 
the student of family history is its instability. Comparing the loosely 
organized modern household with the highly unified family organiza- 
tions of the Ancient Romans and the Middle-Age Teutons, Dr. Goodsell 
says that 

The modern household not infrequently represents the phenomenon of a 
group of clashing wills, an association of highly individualized persons, each 
asserting his rights and maintaining his privileges with greater or less suc- 
cess Obviously the individualistic spirit has undermined and in 

part superseded the autocratic; and although the gain to humanity has been 
great indeed, the advance has not been made without some loss. The family 
of the twentieth century is markedly unstable. 

One cannot delve far into the social literature of the day without 
hearing the changes rung on the dissolving family unit and the invasion 
and disruption of the home by many influences. The school, and the 
church, and industry, and the State have all invaded the household and 
carried away from the family fireside some of the once exercised func- 
tions, responsibilities, and sacred rites of the home. And social evils 
of many sorts, unregulated or improperly regulated labor of women and 
minors, divorce, desertion, inharmony, and the rest, have entered in to 
reside, or to leave their blight. These assailers of the integrity of the 
family are marshalled before us, and we are told that in America the 
family organization is passing away, and that Europeans look upon 
America as the place of the disintegrating family. 

The family is one of the community institutions. It is the most 
numerous of these institutions. Each family group is subject to external 
pressure from every other family institution and every other community 
institution within the area of its social relations. The family institu- 
tion as such has not sufficient resistance to withstand unaided the com- 
bined unsocial propensities of its own members and of the rest of society. 
Available evidence goes to show that families which have been destroyed 
have been the victims of causes independent of the family institution 



572 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

itself. The family falls alike before overabundance of irresponsible 
wealth, leisure, and stimulation, and insufTiciency of the means of sub- 
sistence, of leisure, and of stimulation. But neither of the^e categories 
of causes springs out of the family institution as such; they find their 
source in our general economic and social organization and they are set 
over against the family organization. And families that collapse from 
such external pressures are to be regarded as eflects rather than causes. 
So far as family disintegration exists it lies out at these two extremes 
of surfeit on the one hand, and moral, mental, and physical starvation 
on the other. 

The relatively normal healthy families which lie in between the ex- 
tremes are not dissolving. They are not perfect; but we have not 
achieved perfection in any of our social structures. It is no indictment 
of the family institution that here and there persons are trying to live 
with each other who are temperamentally unfit to live with anybody. 
The seat of most of the difficulty, however, lies in the maladjustments 
in the social environment in which the family institution finds itself. 
In this substantial middle stratum we have a normal family group which 
goes far toward meeting our demands. We need to carry over into our 
community life the spirit and the ideals of this normal family group. 

In a normal healthy family there is a common state of mind — there 
is agreement as to the ideals and standards which the family should 
seek to attain and the means which the members may be permitted to 
employ in attaining them. The family is aware of the common wants 
of its members and what is demanded of each if these wants are to be 
satisfied. There is mutual responsibility, encouragement, confidence, 
reliance. There is the very real condition of family pride, dignity, and 
standing to be maintained. Whether one member suffer, all suffer with 
him. If one rejoice, all share in the joy. In this healthy family, each 
will sacrifice himself if thereby the family standing shall be maintained 
or advanced. There is cooperation. There are common ideals and 
ends to be served rather than merely individual ideals and ends. The 
pursuit of individual aims and ambitions is always with due regard to 
the effect on the family group. The family has a goal toward which 
it is striving — a goal more or less vague, perhaps, but still in the direc- 
tion in which progress seems to lie. 

When we come to apply this ideal to our community life, and we go 
back over history as far as the record will permit, we find that com- 
munity life has been chiefly an affair of conflict — one family protecting 



1916J THE HOME AND THE COAIMUNITY 573 

itself against others, one clan, tribe, city, state, or commonwealth 
struggling against common foes without and conflicting interests within. 
With the advance of civilization and the amalgamation of the small 
contending units into larger ones, the inter-tribe and inter-state conflicts 
have diminished in number and have increased in intensity. Conflict 
of group with group and between indiNadual members within the groups 
has been the dominant characteristic of the life of men in societies 
The history of society is a history of conflict. 

From out this conflict and because of the evils which have accom- 
panied it, there has gradually emerged the concept of cooperation; and 
in our own day, even though it witnesses the most widespread and 
bitter series of conflicts in history, the emphasis is more than ever before 
being placed on cooperation. Even the world-war will give a new con- 
tent and significance to the term. It is the most compelling entreaty 
that could be uttered for the substitution of internationalism for nation- 
alism. The exponents of nationalism are exponents of conflict. It is 
because we are still so deeply in the conflict stage of civilization that 
the slogan of preparedness against thy neighbor has become the absorb- 
ing concern of government, of the press, and of the people. In the calm 
and the desolation and the disillusionment of the aftermath the futility 
of hatred and strife and destruction will gain new emphasis, and the 
bonds of humanity rather than the barriers will be seen more clearly. 
Internationalism will not yet have been fully estabHshed. The nation 
is the largest unit in which we have yet been able to achieve a basis 
of mutual regard, of common interest and solidarity. But world cooper- 
ation will have made another great stride toward its own. Men are 
beginning to believe that life, community life as well as family life, is 
a cooperative affair; that we are all copartners in the working out of our 
individual and collective ends; that our task on earth is a community 
undertaking, and that there is no such thing as a pure individual, or a 
group independent of other individuals and groups; that we are able 
to exist as human beings, endowed with self-consciousness and per- 
sonality, only because we do live in a social medium. The family idea, 
the brotherhood of man, is beginning to have significance in our com- 
munity relations. The further history of society must become increas- 
ingly a history of cooperation. 

In order that there may be cooperation in the larger social group as 
in the family group, there must be a common state of mind, common 
aims, ends, and interests. There must be agreement and mutual under- 



574 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

standing and confidence. There must be recognition of the common 
wants of the members of the whole group and the responsibilities and 
limitations which the spirit and purpose of copartnership j iace on each. 
Irresponsible selfishness must be supplanted by the recognition of the 
equal rights of all to share in the benefits of advancing civilization. 
Cooperation in duties and copartnership in enjoyments must come in- 
creasingly to be the prevailing condition. As in the family the member 
must consider himself with reference to the group, so in the larger 
realms of human association the individual must somehow be brought 
to conduct himself with due regard to his fellow human beings. 
Equality of opportunity, fairness, respect for the opinions and am- 
bitions of one another, patience in the face of irritation, mutual helpful- 
ness and encouragement, readiness to accommodate one's self to the 
wishes and welfare of the whole group, are some of the salient features 
of the family institution that need to be incorporated into commu- 
nity relat'ons. 

One difficulty in our community life is that we have not discovered 
the meaning of life, we have lacked direction and goal. What is the 
meaning of life? Our answer is that the meaning of life is the enlarge- 
ment and refinement of human personality by every means of which 
man is able to avail himself. The most important things in this world 
are the human beings who live in it. The never-ending purpose of life 
is the enrichment of the personalities of human beings in ascending 
scales and in ever-increasing numbers. This is the keystone with ref- 
erence to which the structure of life must be builded. It is the neg- 
lected factor in much of our community organization. 

Our life in society is not organized with reference to the human values 
but with reference to the material values. The wealth-getting interest 
has been and is today dominant. The bitter struggle between capital 
and labor bears loud and undeniable testimony to the fact that our great 
industrial development places material interests ahead of human inter- 
ests. The more than three million organized workers in trade unions 
in America stand as a protest against this subordination of the human 
values. I do not mean that organized labor consciously asserts that 
human interests must be given a new rating; organized labor is often as 
greatly at fault as the capitalists, the wealth-holders, whom it opposes. 
The cause back of the great conflict of classes in our day is the failure to 
recognize the necessary preeminence that must be given to human values 
and the welfare of persons, in the organization of industry. 



1916] THE HOME AND THE COMMUNITY 575 

Last winter and spring I attended the meetings of a number of labor 
unions of various sorts, from the efticient federation of labor in one of 
our largest cities to the down-and-outers assembled in the I.VV. W. These 
men, whose methods we may or may not approve, have a grievance. 
They give testimony that something is out of gear in the organization 
of industry. They usually fail to discover just what is out of gear; 
their discontent with working conditions has causes which lie far deeper 
than the questions of hours and wages. Some groups in our society 
are subject to comparatively unfavorable terms while other groups enjoy 
comparatively favorable terms with reference to participation in all the 
benefits of our common life. When in the home one child is favored and 
another stands in disfavor there is inharmony and abnormal develop- 
ment of both; so in the nation in which there are favored and handi- 
capped groups there inevitably is inharmony and abnormal development 
of the members. We shall not be in the way of reducing the conflict 
element to a minimum until, in practice as well as in theory, we give the 
human values the place and rating to which they are entitled. 

This organization is one among many agencies for the elevation of 
human life. Your interest centers in the home and the efficient organi- 
zation of its activities. It is in the home above all other places where 
human values receive their just recognition. The home is the factory 
for the production and partial improvement of the raw material of 
society. It is here that the twig is bent. It is in the environment of 
the home that each new generation of men and women ripens for par- 
ticipation in community affairs. In our generation we do not charge 
the home with the full preparation of its membership for citizenship. 
But it is clearly apparent that the essential spirit of the healthy family 
group needs to find increasing expression in our community group. 
There is a close similarity between the conditions which prevail in com- 
munity life and those which prevail in the family. Where we find the 
improperly functioning family we shall find disturbed community life. 
That community and that nation will be relatively strong in which the 
prevailing type of relationship in its families predisposes the individuals 
produced by the families to the sort of social cooperation upon which 
the nation relies, or needs to rely, for its progress. Fidelity, mutuality, 
fairness, gratitude, forbearance, sympathy, constancy, dependability are 
the basic relations in all vital human groups, whether the family or the 
larger community group. These are the indispensable elements in any 
advancing type of human association. It is through the increasingly 



576 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

reliable exercise of these qualities in ever-widening ranges of human 
experience that human personality is to be progressively enlarged and 
our relations as human beings in society are to be placed on a valid basis. 
The home is the nursery of these primary social qualities. Society 
everyAvhere exhibits the character of this nurture, be it good or bad. 
Except as the individual learns in the home the elemental social rela- 
tions he comes into the community life disadvantaged, and the progress 
of our community life is retarded. 

The home and the community are inseparable parts of one whole. 
The way in which the community conducts its affairs reacts on the 
home, affecting its stabihty and its character. The way in which the 
home functions determines what sort of persons shall constitute our com- 
munities and what ideals they shall contribute to the common welfare. 

We are living in a day of great achievements — achievements in all 
ranges of our experience. We need most at the present time, with its 
unprecedented industrial development, to keep in the forefront the 
achievement of ever-larger human values, larger outlooks for the indi- 
viduals, richer characters, the making of men that shall count each better 
than himself, or at least as good. We are but beginners in the school 
of life, struggling with the rudiments of existence. Our vision is con- 
centrated still on the A B C's. We have scarcely begun to sense the 
riches of experience which shall be ours when we have brought all things 
into subjection to the development of human character and personality, 
when we shall no more think of maintaining one attitude in the home 
and another outside the home; when we shall be concerned to see that 
all artificial handicaps that make men unequal in the competitions of 
life are reduced to the minimum; when life shall become more than meat; 
when the life abundant shall be the normal. 

You stand as a body for a coherent family group. With no less 
tenacity and clearness of vision we must stand for a coherent community 
group, in which every person is recognized for his full value. 

If, then, as workers in any field of human service, we base our plans 
and projects on the fundamental consideration that we must make the 
material values with which we are daily absorbed minister to larger 
human values, if we conceive our ultimate purpose the enlargement and 
refinement of human personality, and if the ideals and standards which 
we follow after have been tested with reference to their effect on the 
whole body of persons concerned, we shall be building securely in the 
direction in which progress actually lies. 



1916] THE SANITATION OF FOOD STORES AND MARKETS 577 

THE SANITATION OF FOOD STORES AND MARKETS^ 

DONALD B. ARMSTRONG, M.D. 

Director, Department of Social Welfare, Nrx York Association for Improving the Condition 

of tlie Poor 

Out of an income of less than $1000 a year, the average urban family 
of five in most large American cities has to spend from 40 to 50 per 
cent for food. Undoubtedly, an important factor contributing to this 
large percentage is the cost of municipal food handling and distributing, 
as was indicated by a recent study in New York City, where it was 
ascertained that about 37 cents out of every consumer's dollar went 
for the cost of municipal food transportation. 

Public markets are considered by many an essential factor in com- 
bating the high cost of foods resulting from the present individualistic 
methods of municipal food handling. The past few years have seen 
many experiments along market lines, either under public, semi-public, 
or private control, either temporary or permanent in character. It 
would seem that the most effective results might be expected with the 
highest degree of municipal control, including a regulation of rents, of 
retail food prices, and consequently of profits. Obviously, if a public 
market is properly situated, it can effect still further economies to the 
consumer by the elimination of the cost of delivery and the loss result- 
ing from the operation of the stores on a credit basis. 

The establishment of public markets, especially when of a temporary 
and experimental character, introduces into the community life many 
problems of intimate sanitary and hygienic importance, problems which 
the public m.arket has in common with the retail store to a large extent. 
Concentration, however, of retail business in certain areas, possibly 
under one roof, increases the magnitude of the problem and at the same 
time enhances the directness and simplicity with which a sanitary con- 
trol can be established. In any event, whether under private or public 
auspices, any municipality must meet the responsibility of establishing 
and maintaining adequate sanitary and hygienic regulations in connec- 
tion with the city's food distributing system. 

Sanitary food control is of interest from several points of view: 

1. In the f;rst place, there are the representatives of the municipality, 
usually the health department officials, who have the responsibility of 

' Read before the Section on Home Economics of the National Education Association, 
New York City. July 5, 1916. 



578 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

inspection and law enforcement. Of great significance in this connec- 
tion are the recent findings of health departments, perhaps especially 
the New York City Department of Health, to the effect that intelligent, 
educational inspection, particularly in the small food stores, is tre- 
mendously more efficient, from the point of view of accomplishing 
results, than is any amount of uninstructive visiting, legal prosecutions, 
and insignificant fines. 

2. Further, the dealer himself is intimately concerned in sanitary law 
compliance. It is essential that he be made to realize the economic 
importance of sanitary food protection and waste prevention, in addi- 
tion to the health hazards of careless food infection. 

3. Finally, of course, there is the consumer, the purchaser, who is 
interested in food protection and who desires food protection, aroused 
to the necessity by the motives of disease prevention, cleanliness, 
decency, and estheticism. 

From whatever point of view the problem is approached, however, 
those interested soon realize that the special problems of market sani- 
tation are, in the main, three in mmiber. In the first place, because 
of the perishability of ordinary food products^ and because of the risks 
of disease transmission, there are the dangers of contamination and 
possible infection by means of dust, dirt, flies, and dirty fingers. It is 
certainly conceivable that tuberculosis, typhoid fever, and other diseases 
may be and perhaps frequently are transmitted in this way. Further, 
there are the special dangers of decomposition, the rare development 
of genuine ptomaines, and the more frequent pathological, bacterial 
infections. Finally, there must be mentioned the comparatively insig- 
nificant hazards resulting from adulterated or preserved foods, a prob- 
lem in fraud prevention, largely of economic rather than of sanitary 
significance. 

Such a classification does not, of course, include certain other possi- 
bilities, such as the presence of natural poisons, as in mushrooms, the 
presence of animal parasites, as in pork, or the development of specific 
poison, such as solanine in potato sprouts. It ignores entirely what 
would seem to be the most important food factor in health conserva- 
tion, namely, proper dietary food selection, a factor of hygienic rather 
than of sanitary importance and one which is, therefore, inapropos at 
this point in the discussion. 

To confine the discussion largely to the sanitary aspects, it might, 
perhaps, for the sake of clearness, be best to adopt a rough classification 



1916] THE SANITATION OF FOOD STORES AND MARKETS 579 

of the major points and to discuss these very briefly under the headings 
presented in the following tabulation: 

MAJOR POINTS IN MARKET SANITARY CONTROL 
A. THE PRODUCTS AND THEIR CARE — LABORATORY CONTROL 

1. Chemical analyses 

It is, of course, possible nowadays to find in most large cities adequate 
facihties for the chemical study of the foods offered for sale in municipal 
or private markets or in food stores. Such analyses should be made 
to detect illegal adulterants or preservatives and to insure protection 
against the sale of deteriorated or decomposed products. 

2. Bacteriological analyses 

Routine procedures of this kind are, of course, essential if milk and 
dairy products are permitted to be handled in the stores and markets. 
Bacteriological analyses, to detect contamination of foods from various 
sources, may, from time to time, be worth while. Consequently, the 
necessity for municipal equipment to meet demands in this field should 
be recognized when market plans are being developed. 

3. Calorific analyses 

This is the type of analysis and check which cities will have to recog- 
nize in the future. Eventually, governmental authority will have to 
take the responsibility for food standardization, and, if this standardi- 
zation is to be on a rational basis, calorific values will have to be em- 
ployed. Further, if the purchaser is ever to be educated to the point 
where she can buy her food supply on an intelligent food value basis, 
there will have to be a mechanism for routine calorific food analyses. 
In the present state of development, an equipment of this kind cannot, 
of course, be considered a prerequisite to a market establishment. At 
the same time, its need should be emphasized, so that in the future it 
may become an essential part of municipal market control. Again, it 
must be pointed out that this is, of course, of hygienic rather than of 
sanitary importance. 



580 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

B. THE STAFF 

1. A living wage 

As Dr. Gorgas has recently emphasized, essential to the hygienic wel- 
fare of the worker is a sound, economic status. It means for the industry 
a higher degree of intelligence and cooperation from the employees, 
factors which are essential in the enforcement of the rules of personal 
hygiene. This is perhaps of greater significance in food handling estab- 
lishments than in almost any other industry. 

2. The selection of healthy employees 

This is of the greatest importance in food industries, if we are to 
avoid a constant succession of "Typhoid IMary" catastrophes. IModern 
health departments are requiring that food handlers be free from com- 
municable disease. The proper place to inaugurate a check is at the 
beginning of the period of emplo^Tnent. This can be done only by an 
initial medical examination resulting in the selection of healthy 
employees. 

3. Periodic medical examinations 

This is now being required by modern health departments, for the 
detection of disease carriers or individuals suffering from communicable 
diseases. Here, of course, municipal laboratory equipment is essential 
for the conduction of Widal and Wassermann tests, the examination of 
sputa and throat cultures, and the bacteriological study of excreta. 
These requirements are, of course, applicable to small retail food estab- 
Ushments and, indeed, to restaurants, boarding houses, and hotels. On 
the other hand, the city, if it maintains municipal markets, has a special 
obligation for guaranteeing that the food products under its control 
shall be handled by individuals free from communicable disease. 

C. EQUIPATENT AND METHODS 

In this field the details are numerous and it is impossible, in this 
paper, to discuss them at all fully. The major points might be enumer- 
ated as follows: 

1. It is absolutely essential that there be adequate and .sanitary toilet 
and handwashing facilities for the market and store employees. Hot 



1916] THE SANITATION OF FOOD STORES AND MARKETS 581 

water, individual towels, and soap from a holder, are essential. Toilets 
should be equipped with automatic flushes, so as to avoid a series of con- 
stant contacts. Washing facilities should be readily accessible in con- 
junction with toilet facilities. 

2. Food should be protected from animal contamination by at least 
a two foot elevation from the floor. 

3. Receptacles with covers should be provided for rubbish and gar- 
bage, satisfactory arrangements being made for emptying and cleaning, 
and the rules of the market should prohibit the accumulation of refuse. 

4. Adequate refrigeration is essential. This applies to storage refrig- 
eration facilities in conjunction with the market, and to special refriger- 
ation for local stall ice boxes, or for enclosed display cases. The proper 
draining of ice boxes, especially where ice is used for refrigeration, is 
required by practically all market codes. "^t 

5. The laws regarding spitting should be strictly enforced. "' 

6. Most municipal ordinances require that food establishments should 
be properly screened from flies during the fly season. In addition, it is 
usually required, to quote the sanitary code of New York City, that 
"no food intended for human consumption should be kept, sold, ofl'ered 
for sale, displayed, or transported unless protected from dust, dirt, 
flies, and other contamination." This is usually interpreted to apply 
particularly to foods eaten without being cooked or peeled. 

7. Efficient janitorial service, with an arrangement with the stall 
occupants for cleaning, is necessary, if decency is to be maintained in 
large markets. 

8. Public markets, particularly when under municipal control, should 
take advantage of every opportunity, by the use of posters, placards, 
and leaflets, for the education of the public regarding the dangers of food 
infection as a result of unnecessary handling, the risk in promiscuous 
coughing and sneezing, and other dangers. 

D. THE BUILDING 

1. Adequate light and ventilation are not only necessary for the 
physical welfare of the employees, but are, of course, tremendous instru- 
ments in the maintenance of cleanliness and in increasing the commercial 
attractiveness of the market. 

2. Floors should be impervious, water proof, properly drained, and 
maintained in cleanly condition. 



582 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

3. A plentiful water supply for flushing and other general purposes 
is absolutely necessary to market operation. Incidentally, in this con- 
nection, drinking fountains should be provided for employees and 
patrons. 

E. ADMINISTRATIVE CONTROL 

It would seem, judging from experience in many American and for- 
eign cities, that a concentration of authority and responsibility is an 
asset as far as the operation of municipal markets is concerned. This 
implies the establishment of a market department, or at least of a mar- 
ket division in an existing department. The necessity for coordination 
in this field was most strikingly illustrated by the administrative situ- 
ation arising subsequent to the establishment of the temporary curb 
markets in New York City, a year or more ago. While these markets 
were established by the Borough President's office, on street area under 
the control of that office, a superficial survey of the diffusion of responsi- 
bility indicated that, in addition to the Borough President's office, 
there were also concerned, from diverse points of view, the Department 
of Health, the Department of Street Cleaning, the Department of 
Water Supply, the Department of Docks and Ferries, the Bureau of 
Licenses, and the Department of Police. Certainly, if New York City 
is to take further steps in the direction of municipal market develop- 
ment, a concentration of authority is essential. 

From the point of view of sanitary control, there can be no doubt 
that responsibility should rest with one office, rather than be distributed 
as was the case in New York City, where the Health Department 
inspectors were supposed to enforce the rule regarding food protection, 
the Street Cleaning Department provided janitorial service of a kind, 
and the Borough President's office was responsible for cleanliness as 
regards the toilet facilities. 

Historically, most cities attempting to deal with the necessity for 
municipal retail markets have paid some attention to the economic 
aspects of the situation, have attempted to control prices in a greater 
or less degree, but have, to a large extent, ignored the necessities for 
special sanitary regulations and particularly for specific educational 
measures in food hygiene. The markets of Philadelphia and Baltimore,' 

* A new municipal market is now in process of construction in Baltimore. This should 
afford an opportunity to carry out the suggestions made by Dr. Armstrong. 



r 



1916] THE SANITATION OF FOOD STORES AND MARKETS 583 

while attractive structures, and while apparently ser\ing a useful pur- 
pose, by no means take full advantage of the opportunities for food 
control and food education. In this field, so far as the observations 
of the author are concerned, the City of Cleveland is unique. The 
Euclid Avenue Market in Cleveland, in addition to being a model estab- 
lishment from the point of view of construction, light, ventilation, 
refrigeration, food protection, toilet, and hand washing facilities, has 
taken advantage of many opportunities for education of the consumer, 
along the lines of food sanitation. Of course, even in this market much 
remains that could be done in increasing popular knowledge regarding 
food selection, the economies of food purchasing, and the essentials of 
food care in the home. 

In conclusion, it cannot, perhaps, be too forcibly emphasized that, in 
modern public health work and particularly in the field of food sanita- 
tion, we are at the point where we are ready to drop the word "public" 
and to talk primarily about health. Paradoxical as it may be, the 
keynote of modern sanitation, and especially food sanitation, is personal 
hygiene. This means personal cleanUness. From the point of view of 
disease prevention, it is undoubtedly of much greater importance for 
any city to teach its food handlers to wash their hands after leaving 
the toilet, than it is for that city to solve its sewage disposal problem 
even though it may maintain an indecent and unesthetic crude disposal 
by river dilution. From a health point of view, public market and food 
store control, while it must be founded on a sound, sanitary basis, is to 
be effected essentially through a program of personal hygiene. If 
eventually municipalities would meet the responsibility of having this 
program of personal food hygiene include, not only the infection pre- 
ventive and disease suppressive factors of food protection, but also the 
positive, health creative, educational factors of dietary food selection, 
the markets would then be utilized to something like their full potential- 
ity as creative, social forces. 



584 THE JOTJRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

PRACTICABLE WAYS OF INCREASING THE IRON-CONTENT 

OF THE DIETi 

CAROLINE L. HUNT 

Scitntific Assistant y Office of Home Economics, States Relations Service, United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 

This paper does not deal with iron metabolism nor with the com- 
parative availabilities of the iron compounds present in different food 
materials. Nor is it its purpose to recommend that a greater effort be 
made to introduce iron into the diet. It simply brings together a few 
recipes for iron-rich dishes which were used by the writer while, for 
experimental purposes, she was living on a special ration containing 
very little fat, and was at the same time trying to keep up the iron 
content of her food in the hope of avoiding the anaemic condition which 
sometimes follows the use of certain special diets. 

The ration, which is of interest here only as showing how a large 
amount of iron can be crowded into a low calorie diet, consisted of ten 
food materials only. It was taken for nine d?ys during which about 4 
pounds in weight were lost and was then abandoned, not because it proved 
unpalatable or monotonous, but because of the inconvenience that 
always attends the preparation and use of special diets, and because 
there was no longer reason to continue it for experimental purposes. 

The experiment was unaccompanied by blood tests or by analyses 
of undigested residues. Its only value, therefore, . lies in suggesting 
practicable iron-rich rations for use in experiments on iron metabolism. 
In the absence, too, of any exact information about the fate in the body 
of the iron compounds of food it may possibly be useful in preventing 
or overcoming anaemia. The dishes of which it was composed include 
soups, meats, sauces, and desserts. These may be used together to form 
a diet exceptionally rich in iron or may be introduced from time to time 
into an ordinary diet to insure a little extra supply. 

The following table gives the food materials used, the iron per 100 
calorie portion, the amount of each eaten per day, and the iron pro- 
vided by each: 

' Presented at the Ninth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Associa- 
lion, Ithaca, 1916. 



1916] 



INCREASING THE IRON-CONTENT OF THE DIET 



583 



Iron-rich ration having fuel value of about 1900 calories} 
Iron content 30 mg. 



POOD UATEIIALS 



Round of beef (without visible 

fat) 

Whole wheat bread 

Egg yolks (8 yolks) 

String beans 

Lettuce 

Celery 

Pineapple 

Dates 

Figs 

Raisins 



Total. 



reoN 

PER i(y> 

CALORIE 
PORTION 



mt. 

3.0 
0.6 
2.3 
3.8 
5 
2.7 
1.1 
10 
1.0 
1.0 



6 
6 

5+ 

4 

2 

2 

8 

2 

2 

2 



170 
170 
144 
113 

57 
57 
227 
57 
57 
57 



run, 

VALUZ 



200 

414 

514 

47 

11 

11 

98 

198 

181 

196 



1871 



grams- 

40.4 
16.5 
22.0 
2.6 
7 
0.6 
9 
1.1 
2.4 
1.5 



grams 



4. 
1 

46 





0.1 
0.7 
1.6 
0.2 
1.9 



56.9 



84.5 

8 4 
1.4 
19 
22 
44.7 
42.3 
43.4 



248.6 



MC. 

6 
2.4 
11.8 
1.8 
0.5 
0.3 
1.1 
2.0 
2 
2 



29.9 



It will be noticed that the diet had a fuel value of lessthan 1900 
calories and contained about 30 milligrams of iron or about ItV milli- 
grams per 100 calorie portion, as distinguished from § milligram in the 
ordinary mixed diet. In order that the ration might in spite of these 
facts pro\dde sufficient protein and also be sufficiently fat and sweet 
to be palatable the food materials were selected from the following 
groups, which are represented in all well-chosen diets. 

Group 1. Those in Which protein provides a larger percentage of the 
fuel than it does in the diet as a whole. These include milk, cheese, 
eggs, and most of the flesh foods. 

Group 2. Those in which fat provides a larger percentage of the 
fuel than it does in the diet as a whole. These include butter, cream, 
oil, fat meats, and egg-yolks. 

Group 3. Those in which starch pro\ides a larger percentage of the 
fuel than it does in the diet as a whole. These include cereals and 
potatoes. 

Group 4. Those in which sugar provides a larger percentage of the 
fuel than it does in the diet as a whole. These include sugar (cane 
and maple) syrups, honey, candy, figs, dates, raisins, and other dried 
fruits. 



» Figures based on Bulletin 185. Office of E.xperiraent Stations, U. S. Department of 
Agriculture, and Food Products, by H. C. Sherman. 



586 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

Group 5. Those in which mineral matter and mild acids are large in 
amount, as compared with fuel value. These include fresh vegetables 
and fruits. 

The foods in each of the above groups which contain most iron are : 

Group 1. The lean portions of lean flesh foods which have little fat 
between the fibers, particularly round of beef without visible fat and 
certain other cuts of beef; veal; lamb; chicken; cod; haddock; white 
fish; and others. 

Group 2. Egg-yolks. 

Group 3. Whole wheat preparations, oatmeal, and potatoes. 

Group 4. Dried fruits, particularly figs, dates, and raisins. 

Group 5. Spinach, dandelion greens, string beans, lima beans, aspar- 
agus, cabbage, lettuce, celery, pineapple, strawberries, huckleberries and 
grapes. All fruits and vegetables are in fact good sources of iron; not 
so much because they contain more pound for pound than many other 
food materials, but because they contain so little besides that they can 
be eaten in almost unlimited quantities without affecting greatly the 
fuel value of the diet. This is especially true of the succulent vege- 
tables ordinarily used for salads but also to a great extent of other 
vegetables and of fresh fruits, though the latter have a higher fuel 
value owing to the sugar they contain. Though all the vegetables are 
good sources of iron, spinach occupies a place by itself, ha\ing 2 or 3 
times as much, per 100 calorie portion, as any other. 

It may be noted that the foods chosen for the above ration were the 
highest in their respective groups, with the exception of string beans 
which were used in place of spinach because of personal preference. 

This diet may be brought up to ordinary fuel value by the addition 
of butter, sugar, and potatoes in the amounts usually eaten. Even if 
the calories were raised to 3000 by means of the addition of foods which, 
like those mentioned, contain little or no iron, there would still be 1 
milligram of iron per 100 calories, or twice as much as in the ordinary 
mixed diet. 

SUGGESTIONS FOR USING THE IRON-RICH FOODS' 

The common uses for the iron-rich foods mentioned above will occur 
to all who are in the habit of preparing meals; they need only to be men- 
tioned here. The more unu.sual uses are simply modifications or exten- 
sions of the common uses. 

•Recipes for the use of these foods will be founfl in tlic Ilomcmakcrs Dc|)artmcnt 



1916] INCREASING THE IRON-CONTENT OF THE DIET 587 

Egg yolks contain practically all the fat of the eggs and a large amount 
of protein. They may, therefore, be used for thickening and also for 
enriching soups, sauces, and other dishes. It is common to use them for 
these purposes in addition to flour and butter, and, where a large amount 
of iron in the dish is an object, they may be substituted altogether for 
these other materials. Each egg yolk contains 1.5 milligrams of iron. 

Meat and fish can be freed from fat, which contains very little iron, 
and either chopped and mixed with egg yolks or served with egg-yolk 
sauce (see recipe for iron-rich sauce). This sauce, which is capable of 
endless variation by the use of dilTerent flavoring materials, can be 
served either hot or cold. It can be served on vegetables as well as on 
meats and can be used as a salad dressing. Simpler salad dressings can 
be made by seasoning egg yolks, either raw or hard-cooked, with pepper, 
salt, and vinegar or lemon juice. 

Egg yolks may be satisfactorily scrambled if mixed with water i i the 
proportion of 1 tablespoonful to each yolk. No additional fat is needed 
in cooking them. Croquettes of hard-cooked eggs may be made by 
mashing and seasoning them and adding enough raw egg to "bind" 
them. The use of hard-cooked egg yolks as a garnish for cream toast 
is familiar to all. A larger use of the egg yolk in this dish is, of course, 
practicable. 

Boiled and baked custards, either sweetened or unsweetened, may 
be made with the yolks of the eggs only, and with cither milk, meat 
stock, or water as the liquid. The custom of serving with soup firm 
custards cut into fancy shapes is familiar to all. Such custards may be 
introduced into the diet in far larger amounts by using them with bread 
in place of butter or cheese. 

The amount of greens introduced into the diet may be increased by 
chopping them very fine and using them in soup. They may be put 
through the food chopper with whole wheat or graham bread to absorb 
the juice, and cooked in water, meat stock, or milk. For variety 
chopped greens may be added to the milk sauces which are frequently 
served on toast and with croquettes, omelets, and other dishes. 

There are many common ways of using dried fruits. They may be 
cooked with cereals or served with them. Boiled rice with stewed dates 
and cream, either whipped or unwhipped, makes an attractive and 
wholesome dessert. Chopped dried fruits may be used as a filling for 
sandwiches or cake. A very thick layer of chopped fruit between thin 
layers of whole wheat bread makes a good substitute for cake. 



588 TEE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

SOME COLORED SCHOOLS OF THE SOUTH 

KA.TE BREW VAUGHN 

Twenty years ago many negroes of the south opposed any measures 
introduced in the schools which tended to improve domestic service 
or Hving conditions in their own homes, the opposition being founded 
on what they considered the desire of white educators to keep them in 
servile positions. That a radical change of view has taken place is 
evidenced by the enthusiasm and earnest endeavor one meets in all 
types of schools where Home Economics is taught. 

Recently, in making a lecturing tour through Virginia, North and 
South Carolina, Alabama, and Tennessee, I was much interested in 
the development of negro education along these lines. The principal 
of colored schools at Winston-Salem invited me to talk to his girls and 
teachers and I spoke of the necessity of every honest woman knowing 
intimately all those things that affect her home life, namely, cookery, 
cleaning, sewing, buying, and nursing, and where it was necessary to 
earn a livelihood in one of these callings, of the value of technical as well 
as practical knowledge, urging upon them the standardizing of house- 
hold tasks as a means of securing better wages. The talk was followed 
by one from their principal who outlined the history of the work in his 
school. Eight years ago, upon taking charge of a student body that 
seemed interested rather superficially in the subjects of study, he de- 
cided to open a kitchen, a sewing room, and a laundry to fit the girls 
and boys for employment. A few boys, and fewer girls, applied. He 
then required every girl to enter the classes, but the sewing classes were 
filled and cooking and laundry classes went begging. The School Board 
finally decreed that every girl who failed to give the required amount 
of time to cooking, sewing, and laundry, would be dismissed. Teachers 
were added, equipment installed, classes enlarged, and the results as 
indicated by the general tone of the school, sensible dress, cleanliness, 
and health must be gratifying to the school authorities. 

In Winston-Salem and other towns I came in contact with schools 
conducted by gas and other public service companies. The Winston- 
Salem Gas Company found that, through fear of gas equipment or 
lack of training, domestic workers were not using gas successfully. 
Mrs. Jos. B. Smith inaugurated a cooking school which house workers 
could attend once a week for twelve weeks, learning the fundamentals 
of plain cookery and the use of gas appliances. The success was so 



191 6J SOME COLORED SCHOOLS OF THE SOUTH 589 

great that a regular teacher, Miss Ruth Giersch, a graduate of Winston- 
Salem Academy, was employed. Now she has two classes weekly for 
colored workers and two classes weekly for white housekeepers. 

At Charlotte, North Carolina, the Southern Public Utilities Com- 
pany has for four years conducted a school of cooking under the direc- 
tion of Miss Pearl Hislop who has a kitchen equipped for twelve, with 
colored cooks, especially the younger women, attending afternoon ses- 
sions four days a week. 

The most elaborate of these free schools operated by gas companies 
is probably that opened at Roanoke, Virginia, July, 1915, under the 
direction of Mrs. Eugene Taylor, a graduate of Hampton Institute, 
who teaches cooking, sewing, and housekeeping, and aims especially 
to aid colored girls and women in service. All girls over fourteen are 
eligible. The course was immediately popular, and in October it be- 
came necessary to employ an assistant. Miss Letitia Kyd, a graduate 
of Virginia Normal and Industrial Institute of Petersburg, being chosen. 

When application for entrance is made a card is filled giving name, 
age, address, and past service, and after completing the course the 
record of the pupil is added. This card is filed in the gas company 
office where the housewives may obtain an efficient employee. Daily 
record is kept of attendance and those who are delinquent are warned 
and sometimes finally expelled. After a fuU course, covering six months, 
a certificate of efficiency is given the student. In order to arouse inter- 
est, prizes are oflered from time to time for attendance or proficiency. 
At present this school is excellently equipped. Last year the Board 
of Education turned over to the Roanoke Gas School 87 school children 
for instruction, and there is also an enrollment of 175 students from 
homes of housewives of Roanoke who are taking 2 lessons per week. 
Average attendance of 140 shows the interest taken. 

In June 1916 the commencement exercises of the Roanoke Gas Com- 
pany School took place in a large hall, and had an interested audience 
of citizens, white and colored. The effects of the school are apparent 
in the living conditions in colored homes and the increased efficiency 
and contentment of house workers. There has seldom been a move- 
ment more productive of good results; and it is safe to say 1916-1917 
will find the commodious rooms taxed to capacity by the students ready 
to enlist. ' In many towns in the south the same is true, and the gas 
companies are not only advertising their own business but materially 
and practically assisting in dignifying domestic service. 



590 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

Many denominational schools for colored students are emphasizing 
Home Economics. At Raleigh, Shaw Institute gives no inconsequential 
place to this course. The cookery classes prepare all the food used 
for the student body of 500, and do the laundry work as well. In 
Charleston, South Carolina, a well equipped manual training school 
for colored boys and girls, gives excellent training in cookery, sewing, 
and laundry work. The pupils who have attained a certain standard 
in the latter, may bring from home a wash and, by paying for the fuel 
and material used, may do that as practice work. In many instances 
the girls make from two to three dollars a week by this method. 
This wage compares favorably with the weekly wage received by adults 
who do general housework in the same city. At Raleigh, North Caro- 
lina, one of the colored churches, through its pastor, Rev. Perfect Dew- 
berry, has equipped the basement with gas stoves, the gift of the gas 
company, and, through the cooperation of the Woman's Club, the news- 
paper, and the special interest of Mrs. W. N. Hutt of the Progressive 
Farmer, they have a teacher for instructing women not eligible to pub- 
lic schools, and those washing to become more efficient house workers. 
This school is still young, but the prospects for the future are very bright. 

In many towns I had a morning session once a week for the colored 
house workers and the pathetic side of the middle-aged employee, and 
the "know it all" of the partially-educated younger woman, was always 
offset by the extreme good humor and kindliness of heart of the entire 
body. 

I remember one day in Columbia, South Carolina,- the house workers 
came wearing their caps and aprons and presenting at the door the 
visiting card which was to admit them. In order to get their coopera- 
tion I told of the influence on a family of a trustworthy worker and 
tried to paint very vividly the bad results on growing children of illy 
prepared meals, a poorly cleaned house, and untidy habits of the em- 
ployee. I told of a particular case of a club woman whose ability to 
represent different movements often caused her to be sent to dillerent: 
cities as delegate. On these occasions old Mary, a beloved black 
mammy, was left in charge and often found it hard to keep in good 
health and good humor the head of the house and the children too. 
One morning after the return of "Miss Bettie" (as the lady was known 
to her mammy) from a Missionary Conference where her report had 
m.ade a fine impression, she was holding a telephone conversation with 
her pastor, and Mary heard snatches of conversation like this, "O, yes, 



1916] THE ESSENTIAL QUESTIONS 591 

I'm SO fortunate in being able to go," and "I feel that this work will 
put stars in my crown," and other expressions of complacency. After 
turning from the 'phone Mary said, "Miss Bettie, you may get that 
crown, but I shore know old Mary goin* get some of the stars out of 
it fer taking care of your business while you travels about." It touched 
a familiar chord in many breasts and a chorus of "Yes," "That's right" 
was prolonged by one enthusiastic "mammy" into a real "shouting." 
The plaint of the majority of the colored domestic workers is the 
lack of defmiteness of their tasks. As one colored man said to me, "The 
mistress wants the servant to wait on table, answer door, cook, wash, 
and scrub, and still keep sanitorium." It will be only through educa- 
tion along lines of domestic service, coupled with literary studies, that 
the standardization of domestic service will be brought about, and this 
standardization will do as much for the homes as for the income and 
contentment of colored women. 



THE ESSENTIAL QUESTIONS.' 

Nothing in Home Economics, no plan, nor device, no isolated fact, 
is important except as it is related to the essential purpose of the 
home. No woman can rightly or wisely administer a home unless she 
has a clear sense of proportion and keeps her orientation. The thing 
which is always and forever essential should be perfectly clear to her. 
The tricks and fashions and devices which add to our convenience for 
a moment should be brought to their proper places in our thinking. 
Use them, of course, if they help the cause for which the home was 
founded. Toss them away in an instant, as on the frontier, or even 
in camping, when they are not essential to the larger life; and give your 
chief thought to the big questions — What is the home for ? How can 
it be made to minister to the growth of the children within its walls ? 



' A quotation from an address by Sarah Louise .\rnoId at the meetinj of the Gen- 
eral Federation of Women's Clubs, New York City, May, 1916. 



S92 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

HOME ECONOMICS DAY, 1916 

SUGGESTIONS BY THE HOME ECONOMICS DAY COMMITTEE 

With the approach of December we are reminded that the third day 
of that month is Home Economics or Richards Day, set apart by the 
Home Economics Association and the Trustees of the Richards Memorial 
Fund to perpetuate the memory of Mrs. Richards and the other pioneers 
of the Home Economics movement. The originators of this day hoped 
that it would become customary to celebrate it in schools, classes, and 
clubs interested in Home Economics; in their idea it might serve as a 
time both for exercises commemorative of Mrs. Richards or some par- 
ticular phase of Home Economics, and for making especial effort to raise 
money for the fund. As all readers of the Journal should know, the 
income of this slowly-growing fund (which now amounts to about $4000) 
is to be used to help the cause which Mrs. Richards did so much to 
foster. 

The committee of the association in charge of its observance sincerely 
hopes that the celebration this year will bring in a substantial addition 
to the fund, and also that, whether it is planned to bring in money or 
not, it will be more general than before, and will mark an important step 
towards a recognized custom among all interested in Home Economics. 
If nothing special can be done in the way of a celebration, there might 
at least be some commemorative mention of Mrs. Richards' life and 
work at some public exercise of every school which teaches Home 
Economics. 

If a more elaborate celebration is possible, the suggest'ons made in 
the Journal last year^ are still worth considering. They included 
tableaus such as "Preparing Dinner in Olden Times," "In a Colonial 
Kitchen," "Dinner in Camp During the Revolution," "Pioneers at 
Supper on the Trail," "An 1876 Tea," "A Corner in the Rumford Kitchen 
at the Chicago Exposition, 1893," or a series of pictures from "A Dream 
of Fair Women and Their Work in the Home." The suggested tableau 
of the Rumford Kitchen might serve as the central point of a brief 
account of not only that interesting experiment but also of such similar 
ones as the New England Kitchen established in Boston in 1890. Mate- 
rial for this is found in MibS Hunt's Life of Mrs. Richards and in the 

' Vol. VII (November 15), No. 9, pp. 491-493. RcprinU of this may be obtained from 
the JouKMAX ofiice. 



1916] HOME ECONOMICS DAY, 1916 593 

Rumford Kitchen Leaflets (see List below). The leaflets also contain 
a sketch of Count Ruraford's life and work from which a talk appropriate 
to Richards day can be prepared. There is also the leaflet on Count 
Rumford published by the Association. 

Last year's suggestion for loan exhibits of the fancy work of several 
generations, or, if preferred, an exhibit of table and cooking utensils, or 
any other household goods arranged to show their gradual development 
through the periods represented is well worth trying. 

Another appropriate celebration might consist in a competition in 
any household art which the current work of a class makes desirable. 
Bread or cake making; planning menus witJi reference to economy, 
nutritive value, and agreeable flavor combinations; or some branch of 
sewing or handicraft are obvious subjects. It would perhaps suit the 
spirit of the day better if in such competitions the social and economic 
importance of the work could be emphasized rather than mere skill — 
and, of course, it would be more popular if some interested friend could 
be persuaded to offer a small prize. If it is impossible to hold such a 
competition on December 3, it could at least be announced on that 
date and its relation to Richards Day explained. 

Since last year several plays with Home Economics bearing have 
come to light. Besides our old friend "Prince Caloric and Princess 
Pieta," there is "Omelet and Oatmelia," given with so much success 
at the Cornell meeting of the Association last July, and five Httle play- 
lets, especially good for the elementary school — "Mother Goose Up-to- 
date," a health playlet; "Judith and Ariel," a fresh air playlet; "Our 
Friends the Foods," a food playlet; "In a Tenement," a tenement play- 
let; and "Killing Giants," a juvenile court playlet — by Miss Hester D. 
Jenkins, for the Brooklyn Bureau of Charities.^ There is also the 
pageant ".America's Gifts to the Old World," prepared for the Memorial 
Fund Committee and published by them for the benefit of the fund last 
December. Even if this is too elaborate to be used as a whole, indi- 
vidual scenes or dances might be used, many of them especially easy 
and attractive to arrange in the late autumn. A list of these plays and 
other material, which might be helpful in preparing a suitable observa- 
tion, is given below: 

Life of Ellen H. Richards. By Caroline L. Hunt. Whitcomb & Barrows, Boston, Mass., 
1912. $1.50. By naaU of the Journal, $1.62. 

» See review in the Journal for April, 1916, VIII, No. 4, p. 209. 



594 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

Rumford Kitchen Leaflets. Ed. by Ellen H. Richards. New ed. WTiitcomb and Barrows, 

Boston, Mass., 1904. (First six papers reprinted from .Vmcrican Kitchen Alagazine.) 
Leaflets on Life of Ellen H. Richards, Count Rumford, Catherine Beecher, and Xenophon. 

American Home Economics Association. SO. 10 for four in one order. Also a special 

sketch of Count Rumford. $0.05. 
Home Life in Colonial Days. By Alice Morse Earle. Macmillan and Company, New York 

City, 1913. $0.50. 
Social Life in Old New England. By Mary C. Crawford. Little, Brown and Company, 

Boston. 1914. $2.50. 
The Goede Vrouw of ;Mana-ha-ta at Home and in Society 1 609-1 760. By Mrs. \'anRenssalaei . 

Charles Scribner's Sons, New York City, 1898. $2. 
America's Gifts to the Old World — A Pageant or Masque for Home Economics Students. 

By Helen W. Atwater and C. F. Langworthy. Publication of the Richards Memorial 

Fund, American Home Economics Association, Baltimore, 1915. $0.50. Five or more 

copies $0.35 each. 
Prince Caloric and Princess Pieta. Publication of the Richards Memorial Fund,, American 

Home Economics Association. $0.25. 
Omelet and Oatmelia. By Ona Winants Borland. Dramatic Publishing Company, 542 S. 

Dearborn St., 1915. $0.25. 
Five Playlets. By Hester D. Jenkins. P. J. Collison and Company, Brooklyn, 1915. 

$0.25. 

The Committee on Home Economics Day would be greatly helped in 
making suggestions for the celebration of the day in 1917 if teachers 
or other leaders who work out programs this year would send on to it 
reports of their celebrations — be they simple or elaborate, long or short. 
In this way the Committee (which may be addressed in care of the 
Journal of Home Economics, 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore) could 
pass on to others the benefit of these experiments. 



1916] INTERNATIONAX INTERESTS IN HOME ECONOMICS 595 

INTERNATION.^L INTERESTS IN HOME ECONOMICS 

BENJ.\MIN R. ANDREWS 
Chairman, International Committee on Home Economics, Teachers College, New York City 

The International Committee on Home Economics of the American 
Home Economics Association presented a report of progress at the 
Cornell meeting which will be printed in full in the Proceedings of the 
Association. Several of its items will be of interest to all Journal 
readers. The International Committee was appointed in response to 
the request of Home Economics teachers meeting in New York in 
May, 1915, that the Association provide an agency to encourage the 
introduction of Home Economics into schools and colleges in foreign 
countries, especially into missionary schools and colleges, and an agency 
for developing interest among American teachers in the world-wide 
progress of Home Economics as an international factor. Some of the 
committee's work is suggested here. 

The Canton Christian College of China which is regarded as doing 
some of the soundest educational work in China is interested in the 
organization of a Home Economics department. This college has on 
its staff Miss Liu. a graduate of Vassar and of Columbia, who has 
organized its first girls' high school class of a dozen girls, graduates 
of the College elementary school, who will become its first college class. 
Miss Liu's work is supported by Vassar students and alumnae. As the 
women's work develops it is intended to add an American young woman 
teacher of Home Economics, and the support of such a teacher might 
well be made a matter of special contribution by members of our Asso- 
ciation who would be interested in such an enterprise. At the Canton 
College there has been held for several years a summer school of house- 
hold economics which has been taught by American women, teachers 
and the wives of the faculty members of the college. 

The International Committee hopes to have a visit made to the Canton 
institution by a member of the Home Economics faculty of one of our 
American colleges on leave of absence, within a year or two, to aid in 
establishing Home Economics teaching there. The Committee has re- 
ceived offers of such temporary service, at Canton or elsewhere, from 
three American college teachers w^hen conditions permit them to have 
leaves of absence. Others it is hoped may volunteer such services. 



596 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

The Educational Secretary of one of the leading missionary societies 
has assured the committee of great possibilities in the service given by 
leading American teachers willing to contribute a few months service 
to the development of these centers of education in countries to which 
modern civilization is passing. 

Another possibility worthy of serious consideration is the temporary 
exchange of teaching positions by American and European teachers of 
Home Economics when the war shall have finished. The exchange of 
college professorships and secondary teachers was under way between 
America and several countries before the war. Home Economics teach- 
ers had not participated in the plan. There is every reason why they 
should. The home as a central social institution varies somewhat in 
its position in different countries but in all it is fundamental. A better 
understanding of each other's homes and household economy would be 
one factor in a better international understanding; and as the home is 
a determining factor in the standard of hving, we should be doing our 
share toward the leveUng up of standards of living in all countries. 

Your committee has proposed to make an inquiry as to Home Eco- 
nomics instruction in Pan-American states, and has sent out the first 
letters of inquiry. As rapidly as possible it suggests that such com- 
munication be opened with various countries to the end that American 
teachers of Home Economics may know of striking items of progress 
in other countries, and that we may communicate to them similar intelli- 
gence regarding the American movement in education for the home. 

We recommend that where possible our Association be represented 
by delegates at foreign congresses which treat of Home Economics topics 
and that the sending of American papers to their programs be encour- 
aged; and that members of the Association who plan to travel abroad, 
or would be interested in serving as exchange teachers in Oriental or 
European countries communicate with the committee. 

The membership of the Committee now includes Miss Catharine J. 
MacKay, Mrs. Mary Schenck Woolman, Miss Helen Atwater. Per- 
sons who are interested in this work are asked to communicate with 
the Committee. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

THE MAKING OF A HOME LIBRARY 

MARTHA F. EMERSON 
Librarian of New Hampshire College 

A subject like this, because it is so broad as to be indefinite, must 
of necessity contain quotations from readers much wiser and more ex- 
perienced than I, and must also, if you will pardon it, even include some 
bits of autobiography. 

In the attempt to make the subject more definite, I have divided it 
into four headings — but I do not promise to follow them with precision. 

1 . Why should one have a home library in these days of many public 
libraries? 

2. Why is it important to cultivate a love of good reading? 

3. What not to have in a home library. 

4. Along what lines shall we build up our home library? 



Pride in possession is a very strong trait in human beings, and, if 
rightly exercised, is a valuable trait. As with other possessions, those 
books which we have bought or chosen or acquired by gift from friends 
have a value, even a personality, of their own which no other books have. 

The public library can never take the place of the collection at home, 
books we can pick up at any moment, which we know thoroughly, and 
which have helped us through varied moods and experiences. Then, 
too, books furnish a room as do few other things; that is, if one is care- 
ful to have those that look readable rather than the so-called gift-books 
with absurdly ornamental covers. We have high authority for placing 
this kind of value upon books. Cicero described a room without books 
as a body without a soul. 

Lastly, books we own we know as we can know few others, and to 
know a good book thoroughly is a great help toward education. 

»7 



598 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

II 

The reasons why it is important to cultivate a love of good reading 
seem sufficiently self-evident, yet it is worth while to remind our- 
selves of some words of various authors. 
Frederic Harrison, a wise critic, says: 

Men who are most observant as to the friends they make or the conver- 
sation they shall share, are carelessness itself as to the books to whom they 
intrust themselves and the printed language with which they saturate their 
minds. 

Ralph Waldo Emerson's three rules for reading are as follows: "l. 
Never read any book that is not a year old. 2. Never read any but 
famed books. 3. Never read any but what you like." To many of 
us the third rule would seem to make the other two impossible! 

Bryce says: 

One of the commonest mistakes we all make is spending ourselves on things 
whose value is below the value of the time they require. 

James Russell Lowell says : 

A college training is an excellent thing; but after all, the better part of 
every man's education is that which he gives himself, and it is for this that 

a good library should furnish the opportunity and the means I 

know that there are many excellent people who object to the reading of 
novels as a waste of time, if not otherwise harmful, but I think they are 

trying to outwit nature Let us not go about to make life duller 

than it is. 

Thus do various authors emphasize the fact that the taste for good 
reading is fundamental for culture, for education, and for the develop- 
ment of true character. 

Ill 

Our third heading, "What not to have in a home library," is a much 
more delicate matter upon which to speak, and one who is so bold as to 
attempt it must expect to hurt some one's feelings by criticising old 
favorites, but there arc a few obvious pitfalls against which one may 
give warning. Never buy books by subscription; very, very rarely of an 
agent, and do not trust too implicitly the book reviews by j)ublishcrs. 



1916] THE MAKING OF A HOME LIBRARY 599 

Be sure to avoid immoral books; that is easily said, but opinions differ 
so widely as to what constitutes immorality in a book that it is more 
easily said than done. In a recent thoughtful article on "What makes 
a novel immoral," Miss Corinne Bacon says: 

The word morality must not, as is often the case, be narrowed down to 
the equivalent of sex morality A novel may have nothing ob- 
jectionable about it, so far as its love affairs go, and yet be a thoroughly 
immoral book. For morality includes the whole of life, not simply one rela- 
tion. Humanity is broader than sex, and all of our relations to each other 
as men and women are moral relations. So the moral novel, it seems to me, 
must deal truly with the whole of life. 

An immoral book is one whose tendency is to lower the best moral 
standards, to hold up to contempt or ridicule or in other ways to de- 
grade one's ideals, to confuse issues. 

Again Miss Bacon says: 

Among immoral books are those which make a direct appeal to our lower 
nature. Here I would include novels written to pander to race prejudice 
and hatred, such as some of Thomas Dixon's; novels that glorify the lust 
for wealth (such as Chester's Get-rich-quick W allingford stories); novels that 
enthrone the animal over the spiritual nature, setting passion above prin- 
ciples, even to the point of exalting passion into a rule of life. 

I once heard a clever woman characterize a certain popular novel as 
"a book no good daughter would want her mother to read." 

Avoid books which confuse right and wrong. Of such books are the 
Hornung Rafllcs stories which make of burglary a stunning lark, and, 
according to police records, have actually led some young boys to 
attempt such forbidden and dangerous joys. 

Then we come to the mediocre books, and here I realize that I enter 
upon the most delicate part of my subject, and again I take refuge in the 
safety of quotation, but I have the courage to say that although the 
words are quoted, the thought exactly coincides with mine. 

Mediocre books include among novels, all that class known as "harmless" 
and "old favorites." Here we find those "perfectly lovely" stories of Mary 
J. Holmes, those "grand" books of Mrs. Southworth, E. P. Roe's stories, so 
inanely noble and so impossibly pure — and will future librarians class here 
those "sweet" books of Mrs. Barclay, Harold Bell Wright, and Gene Stratton 
Porter? I wonder. 



(500 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

Another critic classes Florence Barclay's books among the "Slushy 
and debilitating novels — the spineless literature of warm and damp 
affection." Does that seem too severe? Then remember that books, 
though called harmless, are not harmless in so far as they weaken us 
mentally. Unused minds, like unused muscles, grow weak. As Charles 
Dudley Warner says: 

Novels which move in a plane of absolute mediocrity, and have the slightest 
claim to be considered works of art represent the chromo stage of development. 

In buying books for children — and surely that is a very important 
object in building up a home library — be careful, especially just before 
Christmas, not to take on trust everything that is offered as juvenile; 
try to select and choose with discrimination; do not include those which 
abound in brutal, horrible or disgusting details, those which are full 
of gross exaggeration, those which are untrue to life and those which, 
according to Miss Agnes Repplier, are "little Pharisees in fiction." 

You will ask, "If there are so many books to avoid, what then can we 
buy?" Fortunately there are many, and an increasing number of 
healthy, wholesome, thought-producing books, and that brings us to 
our fourth heading. 

IV 

Along what lines shall we build up our home library? 

Manifestly and most emphatically along the lines of mental and moral 
strength. We have sometimes heard the expression, "Books that leave 
a good taste in one's mouth," and life is too short and most of our in- 
comes are too limited for us to afford to own any other kind. This does 
not shut out everything except the so-called "pleasant books," but 
does include only those which are worth while for some happy thoughts 
they give us or some lesson they teach. 

In gathering a library for children remember no child above baby- 
hood is too young to enjoy picture-books, but be careful to buy such 
as help train the eye to an appreciation of good color, harmony, and 
line. Give small people who love funny things the Pahner Cox, Gelett 
Burgess and Peter Newell type of grotesque drawings, and thus lead 
them away from the Buster Brown and Foxy Grandpa variety of so- 
called humor. 

The telling of stories is a great delight to children from a very early 
age, and the wise parent knows and tells the old standbys, loved by 



1916] THE MAKING OF A HOME LIBRMtY 601 

many generations. We have many convincing proofs of the power of 
books read in the home. Older people miss a very great opportunity 
if they do not make themselves companions with the children in the 
home by means of famous stories and poems read and re-read, told and 
re-told. After awhile the cheap and .sensational stories lose their 
charm if home influences have helped children to discriminate and 
strengthen their mentality. Warner says: 

Whatever the beginning is, it should be the best literature. The best is 

not too good for the youngest child It requires . . . . little 

more pains to create a good taste in reading than a bad taste. 

As an aid in buying books for children and in building their love of 
good reading, I could not recommend a better book than one called The 
Children's Reading, by Frances Jenkins Olcott. It is full of sane and 
helpful suggestions. 

The following rules, taken from a recent library publication (Public 
Libraries, January, 1916), are also helpful: 

No older person should give to a child a book that he has not read or 
does not know all about. One should not be deceived by low price, attrac- 
tive cover, or the fact that the boy or girl is eager for the book. Ask your- 
self as you read the book: Does the story lay unnecessary stress on villainy, 
deception, or treachery among young people? Are all its incidents whole- 
some and probable and true to life? Does it show young people contemptu- 
ous towards their elders and successfully opposing them? Do the young 
people in the book show respect for teachers and others in authority? Are 
the characters in the story the kind of young people you would choose as 
companions for the children you love? Does the book describe pranks, prac- 
tical jokes, and pieces of thoughtless mischief as though they were funny 
and worthy of imitation? Is the English good and the story written in good 
style? 

I wish here to record a special plea for books for young girls in their 
teens, that most difficult and misunderstood of ages. For them get 
books of the type of Louisa May Alcott, Susan Coolidge and Charlotte 
M. Vaile. They are old books, I know, and have many worthy succes- 
sors, but they are perenially fresh and wholesome. 1 vividly remember 
how much they meant to one young girl at the ''awkward age." 

But, indeed, when for young people of all ages we have such books as 
Rip Van Winkle, Treasure Island, Little Women, Ivanhoe, Howard 
Pyle's Men of Iron, Uncle Remus, and poems and fairy stories, and 



602 THE jouRN'AL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

many others too numerous to mention, what excuse have we for buy- 
ing the weakly sentimental, or even the less good? 

Children are quick to detect the affected and unnatural. I remem- 
ber one character named Phoebe in a little Sunday school book I used 
to read, called Helps Over Hard Places. Now Phoebe had red hair 
and an unnaturally saintly disposition. Her brothers used to tease her 
unmercifully, pretend to warm their hands at her hair, pull up all her 
best bulbs in her garden, and otherwise ill-tre.it her after the manner of 
many brothers both in and out of fiction. But Phoebe, in the whole 
course of the story, never once "got back at them," but silently wept 
and then did them some favor. Phoebe always provoked me, and to 
this day in my family "don't be a Phoebe" means "don't be unnatur- 
ally and ostentatiously good." 

Two of my chief childhood treasures were Foster's Story of the Bible 
— not because I was a "Phoebe," but because I loved the stories and the 
pictures (and, by the way, that book deserves to be a classic and to be 
accessible to all children. In my case it seemed to make Abraham and 
all the Patriarchs my personal friends, while their adventures were the 
most thrilling events) ; and The World at Home, by the Sisters Kirby, 
which, at my will, brought to my door the reindeer of the North and 
the crocodile of the South, and made me feel a much-travelled young 
person. I read those books from cover to cover and out of their covers. 
I tell these things to prove that children need not necessarily be fed 
upon fiction all the time. 

The adult shelves will be made up of a mixed collection, but if we 
have in mind our basic principles of increasing our mental strength and 
character along with our pleasure, we cannot go far wrong. If we have 
on our shelves good biographies, and travel, some essays, plenty of 
poetry and good fiction and science, and technical books and periodicals 
to suit our special interest who can say we have not a well-rounded 
home library. 

One wise lover of books says, "Books may be divided into three 
classes: first, acquaintances; second, friends; and, third, intimates." 

Let us choose our books as we would our acquaintances, our friends, 
and our intimates. 



1916] RECIPES FOR IRON-RICH DISHES 603 

RECIPES FOR IRON-RICH DISHES' 

CAROLINE L. HUNT 

AN IRON-RICH SOUP 

2 heads of lettuce or an equivalent amount 4 cupfuls of meat stock or water. 

of the outer and tougher leaves 6 egg yolks 

1 thin slice of onion Salt 

3 slices or 3 ounces of whole wheat or gra- Lemon juice if desired 

ham bread 

Put the lettuce and onion through a meat chopper with the bread to 
absorb the juice, cook twenty minutes in the water or stock, thicken 
with the egg yolks and season. Or cut the lettuce into small pieces, 
and after cooking put it through a sieve. In thickening the soup beat 
the yolks well and mix them with a little of the hot liquid before putting 
them into the remainder of the liquid. After the yolks are added heat 
the soup only enough to thicken it; not enough to curdle it. A double 
boiler may be used to advantage in making this soup. 

Spinach, kale, cabbage, or almost any other vegetable may be used 
in the same way. Such soups are good food for anaemic children. It 
should be possible to get very cheap the outer leaves of lettuce that the 
market man takes off in making lettuce-hearts. 

The iron in the above soup, exclusive of that in the meat stock, is 
about 12 milligrams.- If made with spinach it contains 14 or 15 
milligrams. 

IRON-RICH MEAT CAKES 

1 pound of round of beef. 1 teaspoon ful of salt 

3 egg yolks. A few drops of onion juice. 

Remove all fat from meat and chop lean portion. Add well-beaten 
egg yolks and seasonings, form into cakes, handling hghtly, and broil. 
Or bake in a hot oven. The iron in the above is about 20 milligrams; 
iron in same weight of meat cakes made without removing fat and 
without egg yolks is about 13 milligrams. 

BAKED FISH WITH IRON-RICH SAUCE 

Cut bass or halibut into fillets weighing 4 ounces or less. Salt and 
pepper them, place in a greased pan, cover with a greased paper and cook 
15 minutes in a hot oven. Serve with the following: 

' For the choice of iron-rich foods see pages 584-587. 
-One milligram equals .000035 ounce. 



604 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

IRON-RICH SAUCE 

6 egg yolks 4 cupful of waler 

3 teaspobnfuls of lemon juice J tcaspoonful salt. 

Mix the ingredients by stirring rather than by beating, and cook 
over boiling water until thick, stirring constantly. Serve hot on meat 
or fish and cold on salads. The iron is about 9 milligrams; iron in oil 
salad dressing, none. 

Thoroughly chilled asparagus with hot sauce makes an extremely 
palatable dish. Spinach cooked, chopped, seasoned, and molded into 
individual portions may be served cold with the above sauce. The 
addition of hard-cooked egg yolks raises the already high iron content 
of this dish. They may be sliced and laid in the bottom of the mold or 
put through a ricer and sprinkled over the spinach after it is turned out 
of the mold. Or all such refinements of serving may be omitted, if it 
is not necessary to tempt the appetite. 

SAVORY IRON-RICH SAUCES FOR MEAT OR FISH 

To the above sauce add capers or finely chopped chives, parsley, 
pickles, or olives; or add horseradish, anchovy sauce, or tomato juice 
boiled down till thick; or use tarragon vinegar in making the sauce 
instead of the lemon juice. Some of these must be omitted, of course, 
in the case of persons of impaired digestion. 

IRON-RICH SUBSTITUTE FOR BUTTER 

4 egg yolks i teaspoonful of salt 
J cupful of water 

Mix the ingredients and pour into a cup, set in hot water; cover and 
bake in a moderate oven until firm. 

The iron is about 6 milligrams; iron in butter, none. 

IRON-RICH SUBSTITUTES FOR CHEESE 

To the ingredients in the above recipe add 2 teaspoonfuls of lemon 
juice and a few drops of onion juice, or ^ teaspoonful of finely chopped 
chives. The iron is the .same as in the iron-rich substitute for butter; 
iron in cheese, practically none. 



1916J RECIPES FOR IRON-RICH DISHES 605 



IRON-RICH SUBSTITUTE FOR CREAM 

A custard made with egg yolks may be used on fruit in place of cream. 
It is particularly palatable served very cold with stewed plums. 

IRON-RICH SANDWICHES 

No. 1. Between two slices of whole wheat bread put crisp leaves of 
lettuce and hard-cooked egg yolks mashed and seasoned with salt and 
lemon juice or vinegar, or with the iron-rich salad dressing. If made 
with 1| ounces of bread, 1 ounce of lettuce, and 2 egg yolks, this con- 
tains about 4 milligrams of iron. 

No. 2. On a slice of whole wheat bread toasted on one side lay a 
leaf of lettuce spread with salad dressing and a thick slice of the butter 
or cheese substitute. Eat with a knife and fork as you would a club 
sandwich. 

AN IRON-RICH SWEET 

Chop and mix together equal weights of dates, dried figs, and seeded 
raisins. Buy for the purpose figs intended for cooking purposes. Soften 
them by washing and drying them in a slow oven. This mixture may 
be used in place of marmalade at breakfast, as a filling for sweet sand- 
wiches, or as a substitute for candy. For the last purpose roll it out 
and cut into pieces the size of small caramels. This candy may be 
wrapped in paraffme paper or served in paper cases. Or the pieces may 
be rolled in powdered sugar. This is a good form of sweet for children 
or for any person suffering from constipation. 

The iron in 1 pound is about 16 milligrams; iron in 1 pound of sugar 
or ordinary candy, none. 

IRON-RICH ICE CREAM 

J cupful finely chopped dates J teaspoonful of salt 

li cupfuls of water J cupful orange juice 

6 egg yolks 

Cook the dates and the water for half an hour in a double boiler. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs and pour the cooked dates over them. Return 
to the double boiler and cook until the mixture thickens. Cool, flavor, 
and freeze. 



606 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

STAMMERING, AND ITS CORRECTION IN THE HOME 

ERNEST TOMPKINS, M.E, 

"A penny saved is a penny earned." This adage applies to one hun- 
dred dollars — the standard price for correcting stammering — as well. 
Indeed, in this application it is emphatically expressive, for most of the 
money spent for the correction of stammering is thrown away and the 
stammering goes right on — often to the grave. So it is necessary, not 
only for the economy of money but also for the economy of suffering, 
to stop the disorder at its inception. 

Some one may say, "Oh, my child does not stammer; I am not inter- 
ested." If your child is under twelve he may stammer yet; and if your 
own child does not stammer your grandchild or great-grandchild may, 
for stammering, like the poor, is always with us, and it is distributed 
with considerable uniformity. It is a common menace, and every one 
should take an interest in its suppression. 

The home treatment involves two simple elements: (1) kind but firm 
prohibition of the defective speech; (2) the encouragement of spontane- 
ous speech, as by reading in concert, speaking in concert, repetition of 
short sentences, repetition of poetry. Any effective treatment must 
be on these same principles. Skillful treatment will hasten the recovery; 
but outside treatment is unnecessary if the home treatment is begun 
at once. 

Decrease as much as possible the inducing causes of stammering. 
These are practically all of one kind; namely, temporary speech inter- 
ruptions. The variety of these causes is large. 

Stuttering — clear repetition — is an avoidable cause of stammering. 
Stop it at once. Slow talking is the corrective for stuttering; but not 
for stammering. 

Imitation of stammering is a prolific cause of stammering. Stuttering 
may run for weeks before it develops into stammering; but the imita- 
tion of stammering may "catch" very quickly; so it should be stopped 
even more promptly than stuttering. 

Association with stammerers sometimes has the same etTect as direct 
imitation. If your child attendsa school in which stammerers arc required 
to recite orally you should notify the school authorities that you want 
your child protected from the infection of stammering just as much 



1916] STAMMERING AND ITS CORRECTION 607 

as they would protect it from any other infection— diphtheria, measles, 
or whooping-cough. That can be accomplished by prohibiting stammer- 
ing on school property: the stammering child should be required to 
write its recitations and anything which it cannot say freely. If a 
neighborhood playmate stammers, he should be required to restrain 
his stammering speech or be "sent to Coventry." If he is required 
not to make the spasmodic speech effort, but to calm himself and speak, 
or to make signs or to write or to "let it go" he is not a dangerous com- 
panion, particularly if his playmates are cautioned not to imitate him; 
and it is hard on the little stammerer to have to play alone. 

Most of the remaining inducing causes of stammering are illness, 
fright, physical shock, extreme exhaustion, cruelty. All these things 
produce broken speech, and the stammering arises from the child's 
conscious efforts to mend that broken speech. Convulsions and faint- 
ing fits are very likely to be followed by stammering. These dangers 
should be attacked from both front and rear. Eliminate as much as 
possible frights — false faces, ghosts, jumping from behind doors, locking 
in dark closets — also harsh treatment, tickling, hysteria, undue exer- 
tion. However, some of the causes are unavoidable. 

Begin the prohibition of the stammering just as soon as it appears. 
Watch the recovering child's speech as carefully as his pulse or his 
temperature; and at the least evidence of spasmodic speech impose 
silence until normal speech returns. If stammering does get a start 
tell the child that it has nothing to fear; but when it feels the inclina- 
tion to stammer it is to wait and calm itself or to remain silent. Refrain 
from questioning it, except when the questions are put so that they 
may be answered by a sign of head or hands. Relieve it from all 
required speech. Its normal speech will gradually return. 



Mr. Tompkins has made a special study of stammering, and embodies here the views 
of noted European as well as .Vmerican authorities. He has published articles on this 
subject in Education, Feb., 1916; Scienlijic American Supplement, Feb. 5, 1916; PedagoRi- 
cal Seminary, Mar. and June, 1916. — Editor. 



EDITORIAL 

International Relations in Home Economics. At this time of 
interest in all world problems the teacher of Home Economics who realizes 
full professional responsibility will take an interest in the subject which 
extends outside the limitations of one's own country. It is appropriate, 
therefore, that our Association has an International Committee on the 
Teaching of Home Economics, the purpose of which is to advance the 
exchange of information regarding teaching conditions in various coun- 
tries, and especially to give help in the introduction of Home Economics 
into newer countries or into those countries where it is just finding its way. 

The committee results from a meeting of the alumni of a college in 
China held in New York a year ago, which presented a request to the 
American Home Economics Association that assistance be given in 
the organization of a department of Home Economics in this Oriental 
college. The International Committee of the Association has since 
made a plan, outlined elsewhere in this issue, for visits by an American 
teacher of Home Economics to Oriental and other higher institutions 
in the interest of the introduction of Home Economics, and also broaches 
a plan for the exchange of teaching positions between American and 
European teachers of Home Economics at the close of the war. That 
this plan is not a mere fancy was illustrated the other day when a repre- 
sentative of several of the church mission boards placed before this 
committee a request that its representative assist in the organization 
of a college for women in the capital city of one of the great countries 
of the Orient. 

The Journal, therefore, makes a plea with its readers that they do 
all in their power to advance the work undertaken by the International 
Committee. American teachers of Home Economics travelling abroad, 
whether in Central and South America, in Europe, or in the Orient, 
can render real service by making advanced plans for cooperation with 
the Committee. Our Association should be represented in every inter- 
national gathering which treats topics related to our field. The inter- 
ests of every teacher of Home Economics ought to broaden out from 
the local community or state, and take in a world view. 
608 



1916] ANNOUNCEMENTS 609 

ANNOUNCEMENTS 

The Central Association of Science and Mathejiatics Teachers 

HOME economics SECTION 

Edna N. White, Chairman, Ohio State University, Columbus. 
Carlotta C. Greer, Vice Chairman, East Technical High School, 
Cleveland. Ohio; 

Grace G. Hood, Secretary, Lewis Institute. Chicago. 

The Home Economics Section of the Central Association of Science 
and Mathematics Teachers will hold its annual meeting at the Uni- 
versity of Chicago on Friday and Saturday December 1-2, 1916. 

The following program will be presented. 

Friday, December 1, 1.30 p.m. 

1. Teaching Practical Dietetics 

Dr. C. F. Langworthy, Chief, U. S. Department of .\griculture. States Relations 
Sen-ice, Washington, D. C. 

Discussion 
Amy Daniels, in charge of Dietetics at University of Wisconsin, Madison 

2. Fitting Home Economics Work to Community Needs 

Carrie A. Lyford, Specialist in Home Economics, Department of the Interior, Bureau 
of Education, Washington, D. C. 

Discussion 

3. The Content of Domestic .Vrt Courses 

Anna McMillan, in charge of Domestic .Vrt, Lewis Institute, Chicago 

Discussion 

Saturday, December 2, 9.00 a.m. 
Business Meeting 
Report of Committees 

Consideration of New and of Unfinished Business 
Election of Officers 

10.00 a. m. 
I. The Standardization of Textile and Clothing Teaching in Grades and High Schools 

Round Table Discussion 
Ethel Sapp Tudor, presiding. In charge of Home Economics Department at Baldwin- 
Wallace College, Berea, Ohio. Formerly with Central High School, Akron, Ohio. 

Discussion 
Mrs. M. G. .\dams, Super\isor of Practice Teaching, Ohio State University, Columbus 
Anne Green, Township High School, De Kalb, 111. 
Anna McMillan, Lewis Institute, Chicago 
Minnie Peterson, Super\-isor of Sewing, Peoria, 111. 
Lora Lewis, SuperN-isor, Terre Haute, Ind. 

Katharine Hardy, Supervisor of Domestic Science, Dayton, Ohio 
Agnes Hanna, School of Education, University of Chicago 



610 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

II. The Standardization of Food Teaching in Grades and High Schools 
Round Table discussion (Talks limited to 5 minutes) 
Emma Conley, presiding. Extension Department, University of Wisconsin, Madi- 
son. Formerly State Inspector of Domestic Science in High Schools in Wisconsin. 

1. Home Economics in the Junior High School 

Carrie E. King, Public Schools, Chicago, 111. 
Faith Lanman, Supervisor of Domestic Science, Columbus, Ohio 
General Discussion 

2. Science in Relation to Food Work 

Jenny H. Snow, Chicago Normal School, Chicago 
Helen ^lonsch, Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa 
General Discussion 

3. The Teaching of Standards 

Florence Harrison, University of Illinois, Urbana 
Carlotta Greer, East Technical High School, Cleveland, Ohio 
General Discussion 

4. The Relation of the High School Lunch Room to the Home Economics Teacher 

Elizabeth Stone, Public Schools, Decatur, 111. 
Alice Treganza, Public Schools, Bloomington. 111. 
General Discussion 

5. High School Home Economics and College Entrance Requirements 

Gertrude Van Hoesen, University of Chicago 

Mary Chapin, State Normal School, Bowling Green, Ohio 



The Meeting of the Home Economics Assqciation in 
Kansas City 

The next meeting of the Department of Superintendence of the 
Nfttional Education Association will be held in Kansas City, Mo., from 
February 26 to March 3, 1917. 

As in former years the American Home Economics Association will 
hold special sessions with this convention. There is a strong con- 
tingent of Home Economics teachers in Kansas City who will give our 
Association a cordial welcome. 

Miss Essie M. Heyle. supcrA'isor of the work in the city schools, has 
offered any possible assistance. 

The Kuppcr Hotel has been selected for headquarters of the Asso- 
ciation. It is four short blocks from the Hotels Baltimore and Muehl- 
bach. the Convention headquarters, and is to be used by the Deans of 
College Women and other as.sociations. 



19 16] THE QUESTION BOX 611 

Members who are planning to be present should make their 

RESERVATIONS IMMEDIATELY. 

The best way to do this is to write directly to Mr. Utto F. Dubach, 
Chairman of Committee on hotels, Board of Education, Kansas City, 
telling the character of the reservation desired. The rates at the Kupper 
are as follows: 

Single room, without bath SI .0()-$2 .00 

Single room, with bath 2 .00- 3 .00 

Double room, without bath 2 .00- 3.00 

Double room, with bath 3.00- 6.00 

PLEASE MAKE YOUR RESERVATIONS 



THE QUESTION BOX 

Conducted by a committee o( the Science Section of the American Home Economics 
Association. Chairman, Prof. Amy Louise Daniels, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis. 
Questions may be sent directly to Miss Daniels. 

Question: In the following recipe is there enough saccharine to make 
the pickles dangerous? 

"Wash cucumbers, mix well 1^ cups salt, | cup ground mustard, and 
one level teaspoon of saccharine. Add one gallon of vinegar and mix 
thoroughly. Add spice and place all in granite vessel for four or five 
days and can without heating." 

Answer: The amount of saccharine used in the above recipe may not 
be enough to produce untoward results. This, however, would depend 
upon the number of pickles consumed by an individual at any one time. 
Three tenths gram of saccharine is the maximal dose. In the recipe 
0.015 + gram of saccharine is contained in every tablespoonful of the vine- 
gar. Obviously, a good many pickles would have to be eaten in order to 
obtain the maximal dosage. But why use saccharine, a substance hav- 
ing no food value, when sugar may be used to give the sweet taste 
desired? Furthermore, the United States government prohibits the 
addition of saccharine to food substances offered for sale in the District 
of Columbia or the territories, or shipped in interstate or foreign com- 
merce, or offered for importation into the United States. (Rules and 
Regulation for the Enforcement of the Food and Drug Act, June 30, 
1908. Food Inspection Decision 138.) 



612 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 

The Journal of Home Economics: 

In response to the request for information regarding a successful 
course in home nursing, I am writing to tell of the work in our high 
school. 

1. The course may be elected by students who have previously had 

three terms of work in the department. 

2. Senior high school girls make the best students, though younger 

girls in the second and third years of the school do very good 
work. 

3. A full term credit is given for the work. This means two double 

laboratory periods and one recitation period per week, with 
the same amount of time spent in preparation. This includes 
notebook, outside reading, and home practice. 

4. There are 36 laboratory days and 18 recitations. Very often 

one half of the laboratory work is used for recitation. The 
course is divided into sections arbitrarily as follows: 

a. Review of general physiology. The physiology of 

digestion. Hygiene. The hygiene of clothing. 

b. The bed room, its location, furnishing and care. Care 

of an invalid. Bed making, with bedfast patient 
(a grade school girl.) Hygiene of baths. Giving 
bath in bed. Administration of simple medicines. 
Counting pulse, temperature, and respiration. 

c. Emergencies, poultices, bandaging. 

d. Invalid cookery (6 or 8 lessons). 

e. Care of children. Proper clothing. Demonstration 

sponge bath of baby. 

f. Infants and children's food. Care of bottles. Modi- 

fied milk. Food through 5 years. 

The work has been surprisingly well done and students have liked 
it very much. It has been a pleasure to fmd special aptitude developed 
which has been put into use at home, and in some cases girls who are 
finishing their high school work have signified their intention of entering 
a training school for nurses. 

It is not easy to arrange for the practical work with babies. More 

of this would be advantageous. 

ELizAnETii L. Cowan, 
Supervisor and Teacher of Ilottsehold Arts, 

CraufordsviUe, Ind. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
Journal of Homk Economics if the Journal price is listed. 



Low Cost Cooking. By Florence Nesbit. 
Chicago: American School of Home Eco- 
nomics, 1915, pp. 127. $0.50. By mail 
of the Journal, $0.56. Lots of 20 or 
more at S0.25. 

Miss Nesbit was one of the first of the 
visiting housekeepers in Chicago and was 
later given the supervision of the money 
issued by the Juvenile Court of Chicago 
under the Widows Pension .A.ct. Her book, 
therefore, is written by one who has had 
first hand knowledge of the audience whom 
she is wishing to reach and the practical and 
usable material included bears evidence of 
her experience. 

The first part of the book discusses foods 
in general, giving simple statements as to 
the uses of the various food principles with 
special emphasis on the value of proteins and 
mineral salts. There is some interesting ma- 
terial on the comparative cost of bulk and 
package foods, small quantity versus large 
quantity buying, and choice of fats and cuts 
of meats. Following this are instructions in 
regard to kitchen and pantry, which might 
perhaps have been amplified with more ma- 
terial on the sanitary care of food. The 
usual statements concerning level measure- 
ments are followed by directions for obtain- 
ing a level teaspoon, tablespoon or cup of 
material and the housekeeper is not only 
told to use a measuring cup but is advised 
where to obtain one for five cents. The 
same practical help is given later in the book 
when the recipes for the use of the fireless 
cooker are followed by directions for making 
one at home. 

The main part of the book is given up to 
general recipes which include all types of 
dishes in forms which are well suited to the 
purposes of the book. Following this are 
menus for summer and winter. These are 



given for one week in each season with 
specific directions for procedure in prepa- 
ration, and additional menus for three weeks 
are put in tabulated form. It is hard to 
believe that such daily and weekly menus 
can be sufiiciently elastic to be adapted to 
the fieeds of a particular family, so that 
their value lies chiefly in the recipes which 
might have been included in the preceding 
part of the book. However the ty[>e of 
housekeeper for whom this book is written 
is often at a loss for just such definite di- 
rections either through lack of training or 
because she needs help in adapting herself 
to conditions in a new country. 

A problem which is found in many of the 
homes of the working people is that of the 
mother who must go out of the home to 
earn her living and yet must supply the food 
for her family. One chapter is devoted to 
suggestions as to dishes which the children 
may prepare in part, or entirely, in her 
absence. Two other difficulties often met 
by the visiting housekeeper are the lack of 
formality and sociability in the ser\ing of 
meals and the tendency to give to children 
of all ages the same food which is served to 
adults. Miss Nesbit gives a page to the 
setting of a table and serving a meal, as- 
suming that such practices will be observed; 
she also gives among her recipes a number 
of attractive beverages which might induce 
the children to forego tea and coffee, and 
puts much emphasis on the value of milk. 

With all this valuable material ready for 
use the dilTiculty will be to get it to those who 
most need i^ The more intelligent house- 
keepers will be able to use the book them- 
selves but many more will have to depend 
on \'isiting housekeef>er and settlement for 
interpretation. For these workers the book 
will prove a helpful guide. 

Frances L. Swain. 

613 



614 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[November 



Your Baby; a Guide for Mothers. By 
Edith B. Lowry. Chicago: Forbes and 
Company, 1915, pp. 254. $1.00. By 
mail of the Journal, $1.07. 

Efficient motherhood is the ke>'note of 
this book. Recognizing the fact that the 
present generation cannot choose its ances- 
tors, Dr. Lowry's plea is for better ancestors 
for the generations to come. In simple 
dignified language she tells briefly the fun- 
damental truths concerning the genesis of 
life. Her brief discussion of the "Twilight 
Sleep" is the preface to some very pertinent 
and wholesome advice as to the care of the 
body which is to be the repository of the 
priceless treasure of a new life. 

Her practical suggestions concerning the 
preparation, from a medical standpoint, for 
the birth of the baby; the list of articles 
needed for the baby's outfit; the discussion of 
the proper bathing and feeding of the baby; 
and the chapter on accidents and diseases 
make the book invaluable to the inexperi- 
enced young mother. 

This book in the hands of every young 
woman, married or single, would be a factor 
of incalculable value in our national move- 
ment for the conservation of human life. 
Emma B. Wagnter. 

Diet for Children. By Louise E. Hogax. 
Indianapolis: The Bobbs-MerriU Com- 
pany, 1916, pp. 160. W.75. By mail of 
the JouRXAL, $0.80. 

The recently awakened interest in the re- 
lation of food to nutrition and growth makes 
welcome contributions puri:)orting to apply 
the results of recent investigations to the 
diet of children. Within the last few years 
much has been written concerning the feed- 
ing of infants, but for the child over one 
year the mother has been able to get but 
little definite information. 

The title of the book "Diet for Children" 
suggests that the much sought information 
is at last available. The book, however, is 
a great disap|X)intmcnt, for it not only fails 
to take cognizance of recent investigations, 
but many of the statements arc incorrect 



and misleading. For example, fats are classi- 
fied as hydrocarbons; milk is said to contain 
"casein or cheese, sugar, phosphates, and 
cream;" "eggs form a complete food, if the 
shell, which supplies the chick with salts, 
is taken into consideration; hence for children 
supplement eggs with salt-gi\nng foods." 
Carrots and canned fruits are listed in the 
foods forbidden until after second dentition. 
Nursing mothers are urged to take frequent 
e.xercise, because "through lack of exercise the 
milk becomes too concentrated." "Too fre- 
quent nursing renders milk too solid, lessens 
the water, and gives the child colic. Too long 
intervals make the milk too watery and fai 1 
to give its necessary nutrition." The author 
appreciates that when milk is heated some 
chemical change takes place, but believes 
that the mother can correct this by con- 
sultation with a careful physician, or by 
studying for herself how to supply what is 
lost by heating and replacing it with other 
food. We wish Mrs. Hogan would tell us 
just what is lost by heating. 

In the section dealing with the place of 
fruit in the nursery, the following statement 
is made: — "Thej' (fruits) contain very large 
proportions of water, but their food value 
lies in the sugar, acid, and salts they con- 
tain, which cool the blood, aid digestion, 
tend to promote intestinal action, correct 
tendencies to constipation. They are esj>e- 
cially adapted to the nourishment of the 
brain and nervous system." 

Considerable space is devoted to sugges- 
tive menus for children over one year. 
These are taken from various more or less 
reputable authorities, for which credit is 
given. Man}' of these are helpful. How- 
ever, few, if any, pcdiatrists now believe 
that eggs should be eliminated from the diet 
until the child is nineteen months old, al- 
though there are still some who would with- 
hold meat until after five. 

Approximately oncthird of the book is 
devoted to reci|>cs for n\aking the various 
dishes which the author believes arc suitable 
for children. In most cases the amount of 
material used indicates that family portions 
are to be prc|>ared. .\mv I.. Dasizls. 



1916] 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



615 



Mothercrajt. By Sarah Cosjstock. Xew 
York: Hearst's Internationa! Library 
Company, 1915, pp. 215. $1.00. By 
mail of the Journ'al, $1.08. 

This delightfully readable and timely book 
puts into the hands of young mothers and 
mothers-to-l>e the best modern teaching in 
this country regarding the hygienic care and 
the educational occupation of children of 
nursery age. 

The name MoUiercraft is a newly-coined 
word which at once provokes discussion, 
principally for the reason that craft seems a 
misfit in this connection. To the coiners of 
the word it is synonymous with mother- 
skill, and includes all that pertains to the 
home care and education of children from 
infancy to niaturity. 

VV'itli this conception of the word in mind, 
Miss Comstock's book is extremely limited 
in scope, as it devotes most of its pages to 
the care of the infant. In this it reflects 
the authoritative teaching of the day 
which stresses the first period of child life. 
The fact that she gives only one chap- 
ter out of eight to the educational occupa- 
tion of children in the home is indicative of 
the newness of the ground she is on. 

The motive for the book is found on page 
4 where she makes a free translation of 
Saleeby when he says in iiis discussion of 
motherhood, "At present the most impor- 
tant profession in the world is carried on 
by unskilled labor." (Saleeby, Parenthood 
and Race Culture, p. 173.) 

Miss Comstock makes no claim to origi- 
nality in the content of her book, but does 
claim that "every statement is based on 
unimpeachable authority." A Ust of her 
authorities includes the names of specialists 
known the country over. One misses the 
name of Marianna Wheeler, so long asso- 
ciated with Dr. L. E. Holt at the Bpbies' 
Hospital,- Xew York, and herself a pioneer 
worker in this field. Chicago is listed as 
having a "School of Mothercraft," whereas 
the Child Welfare Committee, standing 
sponsor for the work among the mothers of 



the poor, does not so designate it. .\side 
from the authorities cited, the i^ook carries 
conviction because of its very saneness. It 
keeps to the safe middle-ground always. 

The strength of the book lies mainly in 
the presentation of the matter in hand. No 
facts are dodged, but salient ones are driven 
home by an apt illustration, a witty turn 
of expression, .\dvice is given pleasantly, 
acce|)tably a rare gift. The introductory 
page of "Don't?, by the Baby" beginning 
"Don't rufl me, and fluff me, shirr, rosette, 
and puff me," has been known to sell the 
book. Miss Comstock neither spares nor 
offends the supposedly intelligent mother 
who is in reality woefully ignorant regarding 
her child's care and education, although she 
may be able to "raise Pomeranians without 
an error!" 

In a word, the book popularizes much of 
the present-day teaching which is bringing 
to public consciousness the value and dignity 
of the mother's work, and of her need of 
preparation for it. 

Elizabeth JiiNKi.Ns. 

The Baby. N. Dak. .\gr. Exp. Sta. Spec. 
Bui. June, 1916, Vol. 4, no. 5, pp. 
97-132. 

This Special Bulletin of the Food Depart- 
ment of the North Dakoka Agricultural Ex- 
periment Station is devoted to the "Care 
of the Baby," stating in its introduction 
that the "most important product of the 
state is the baby. It is the greatest asset 
of every home " The bulletin includes two 
articles. The Summer Care of Infants, from 
the United States Public Health Service, 
and Feeding and Care of the Baby, from the 
bulletin of the Maine State Board of Health. 
The North Dakota Station is to be com- 
mended for circulating in its own bulletin 
authoritative material which has been com- 
piled elsewhere, rather than necessarily 
attempting to write something new. The 
suggestion is worthy of adoption generally 
in our state bulletin series. 



616 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

BOOKS RECEIVED 

Clothing For Women, Selection, Design, Construction. Bj-^ Laura I. Baldt. Philadelphia: 
J. B. Lippincott Company, cl916, pp. 454. $2.00. 

A Course in Household Arts. Pt. 1. By Sister Lorctto Basil DufT. Boston. VVhitcomb & 
Barrows, 1916, pp. 301. $1.00. 

The Expectant Mother. By Samuel Wyllis Bandler. Philadelphia: W. B. Saunders Com- 
pany, 1916, pp. 213. $1.25. 

Fight for Food. By Leon A. Congdon. Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott Company, 1916, 
pp. 207. $1.25. 

Practical Biology. By W. 'M. Smallwood, Ida L. Reveley, and Guy A. Bailey. Boston: 
.\ll>Ti & Bacon, cl916, pp. 421. $1.25. 

The Rural School Lunch. By Nellie Wing Farnsworth. St. Paul, Minn.: Webb Publishing 
Company, 1916, pp. 42. S0.25, paper. 

PAMPHLETS 

U. S. Pub. Health Serv-ice Health Reports. Gov. Printing OflBce: Supt. of Documents. 
Cyanide Gas for the Destruction of Insects with special reference to mosquitoes, fleas, body 

lice and bedbugs. By R.H. Creel and P.M. Paget. Reprint No. 343, 1916, pp. 15. $0.05. 
Health Insurance. By William C. Woodward and B. S. Warren. Reprint No. 352, 1916, 

pp. 8. $0.05. 
Health of Garment Workers. By B. S. Warren and Edgar Sydenstricker. Reprint No. 341, 

1916, pp. 10. $0.05. 

U. S. Dept. Agr. Bulletins. Gov. Printing OfTice: Supt. of Documents. 

Bacteria in Commercial Bottled Waters. By Maud Mason Obst. Bulletin No. 369. May 

26, 1916. pp. 14. $0.05. 
Lessons on Tomatoes for Rural Schools. By E. A. Miller. Bulletin 392, Aug. 23, 1916. pp. 

18. $0.05. 

Extension Dept. of Iowa State College Bulletins. Iowa State College, Ames, la. 

The Child and Its Care. By Neale S. Knowles, Louise H. Campbell, and Mabel C. Bentley. 

Home Economics Bulletin No. 2, 1916, pp. 32. 
Home Furnishing. By Winifred S. Gettemy. Home Economics Bulletin No. 7, 1916, 

pp. 36. 
Home Management. By Ncale S. Knowles, Louise H. Cami)bell, and Mabel C. Bentley. 

Home Economics Bulletin No. 6, 1916, pp. 19. 
Personal Hygiene. By Neale S. Knowles, Louise H. Campbell, and Mabel C. Bentley. 

Home Economics Bulletin No. 3, 1916, pp. 24. 
Planning and Equipping the Kitchen. Home Economics Bulletin No. 8, 1916, pp. 24. 
Planning and Serving Meals. By Ncalc S. Knowles, Louise H. Campbell, and Mabel C. 

Bentley. Home Economics Bulletin No. 1, 1916, pp. 32. 
Planning Costume. Home Economics Bulletin No. 9, 1916, pp. 20. 
Public and Home Sanitation. Home Economics Bulletin No. 5. 1916, pp. 24. 
Textiles — Their Care and Use. By Neale S. Knowk-s, Louise H. Campbell and Mabel C. 

Bentley. Home Economics Bulletin No. 4, 1916, jjp. 26. 
Agr. Ext. Dept. of N. Dak. Agr. College Bulletins, .\gricultural College, N. Dak. 
Preservation of Food in the Home. By May C. McDonald. .\gr. Ext. Bulletin No. 3, June 

1916, pp. 31. 



1916] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 617 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 
Contributions to the Bibliography are welcomed. Please send material to the Journal, 

Foods A>rD Cookery 

Examination of Scallops. .\. L. Sullivan, Amer. Food Jour., 10 (1915), no. 9, pp. 472, 
473. 

National Association of Master Bakers (.\nnual Report of Convention]. Nat. Assoc. 
Master Bakers [Proc], 18 (1915), p. 189, figs. 21. 

Twelfth -Vnnual Report of the Food Commissioner and State Chemist. E. F. Ladd et 
al., North Dakota Sta. Rpt. 1915, [pt. 2], p. 25. 

[Food and Drug Inspection]. F. H. Fricke, .Aun. Rpt. Food and Drug Comr. Mo., 1915, 
p. 59. 

Effect of Storage on Moisture Content of Cloves. A. W. Ogden, .4m<rr. Food Jour., 10 
(1915), no. 9, p. 474. 

Losses and Other Chemical Changes in Boiling Vegetables. Katherine I. Williams, 
Chem. Nru'S, 113 (1916), no. 2940, pp. 145-147. 

The Milling and Baking Quality and Chemical Composition of Wheat and Flour as 
Influenced by Different Methods of Handling and Storing, Heat and Moisture, [and] Germi- 
nation. C. O. Swanson, L. A. Fitz, and Leila Dunton, Kansas Sta. Tech. Bui. 1 (1916), 
p. 83, pis. 22. 

The .Vnalysis of Maple Products. V, Miscellaneous Observations on Mai)le Syrup Inci- 
dental to a Search for New Methods of Detecting .Adulteration. J. F. Snell, Jour. Ituius. 
and Engin. Chem., 8 (1916), no. 2, p. 144. 

The Analysis of Maple Products. VI, A Volumetric Lead Subacctate Test for Purity of 
Maple Syrup. J. F. Snell, N. C. MacFarlane, and G. J. Van Zocren, Jour. Indus, and Engin. 
Chem., 8 (1916), no. 3, p. 241. 

The Analysis of Maple Products. VII, The Electrical Conductivity Test for Purity of 
Maple Syrup. J. F. Snell, Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., 8 (1916), no. 4, p. 331. 

The .Analysis of Maple Products. VIII, The .Application of the Conductivity and Volu- 
metric Lead Subacetate Tests to Maple Sugar. J. F. Snell and G. J. Van Zoeren, Jour. 
Indus, atui Engin. Chem., 8 C1916), no. 5, p. 421. 

The Loquat. I. J. Condit, California Sta. Bid. 250 (1915), pp. 251-284, figs. 11. 

Recent Advances Relating to the Composition and .Analysis of Edible Oils and Fats. 

E. R. Bolton and C. Revis, Analyst, 40 (1915), no. 477, pp. 494^503. 

Hygient; and Sanitation 

The Feeding and Care of the Baby. Bui. Bd. Health Mo., 4 (1916), no. 2, p. 40. 

The Care of Children's Teeth: The ^lost Neglected Feature of Pediatric Medicine. T. 
C. McCleave, Jour. Amer. Med. Asscc, 67 (1916), no. 5, pp. 323-325. 

Action of Honey on the Teeth. H. P. Pickerill, Nra' Zealand Dental Jour.; abs. in Chem. 
Abs., 10 (1916), no. 6, p. 771. 

The Experience of New York C-ty in Grading Market Milk. L. P. Brown, .\mer. Jour. 
Pub. Health, 6 (1916), no. 7, pp. 671-677. 

Comparative Bacteriological Examination of Shell Liquor and Meats of Oysters. L. A. 
Round, .\mer. Jour. Pub. Health, 6 (1916), no. 7, pp. 686-693. 

Live a Little Longer: The Triple Alliance Between the Public, the Physician, and the 
School. MeUssa E. Bmgeman, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 6 (1916), no. 7, pp. 694-702. 



618 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

• Physiology and Nutrition 

Food For Young Children. Caroline L. Hunt, U. S. Dept. Agr. Fanners' Bill. 717 (1916), 
p. 20, figs. 4. 

The Excretion of Creatin During a Fast. F. D. Zeman and P. E. Howe, Jour. Biol. 
Chen:., 20 (1015), no. 4, Proc., p. XVIII. 

The Influence of Protein Feeding on the Elimination of Creatin in Starvation. W. C. 
Rose, Jour. Biol. Chem., 20 (1915), no. 4, Proc, p. XIX. 

Diet and Pellagra. Rabbits and Hares as a Possible Dietary Factor in Combating the 
Disease. C. W. Stiles, Puh. Hcalih Rpts. [U. S.], 31 (1916), no. 13, pp. 817, 818. 

Fate of Inorganic Nitrogen in the IVIetabolism of the Dog. W. Caldwell and H. R. S. 
Clotworthy, Biochem. Jour., 10 (1916), pp. 14-25. 

Value of Rectal Feeding. H. Adler, Ainer. Jour. Med. Sci., 150 (1915), pp. 562-565. 
Nutrition of the School Child. G. A. Brown, Jour. Stale Med., 23 (1916), pp. 329-335; 
353-358. 

Bile Pigment IMetabohsm. I, Bile Pigment Output and Diet Studies. II, B>le Pig- 
ment Output Influenced by Diet. C. W. Hooper and G. H. Whipple, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 
40 (1916), pp. 332-348; 349-359. 

Investigation and Scientific Phases of the Diabetic Question. F. M. Allen, Jour. Amer. 
Med. Assoc, 66 (1916), pp. 1525-1532. 

The :Mechanism of Antagonistic Salt Action. J. Loeb, Proc. Naf. Acad. Set., 1 (1915) 
pp. 473-477. 

Physiology of the Effect of Climate. VI, Energy Changes of School Children from the 
Laboring Classes in a Large City. VII, Influence of Sojourn in a Forest Health Resort on 
the Metabolism and Growth of School Children. F. MuUer, Zentbl. Biocherti. u. Biophys., 
18 (1915), p. 107; abs. in Chem. Abs., 10 (1916), no. 7, p. 920. 

The Assimilation of Fats. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 67 (1916), no. 2, pp. 
124, 125. 

On the Secretion of Bile. S. Okada, Jour. Physiol., 49 (1915), p. 457. 
Diet and Metabolism in Chronic Interstitial Nephritis. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. 
Assoc, 66 (1916), no. 24, p. 1860. 

New Researches on the Bile. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 66 (1916), no. 23, pp. 
1781-1782. 

The Relation of Gout to Nephritis. M. S. Fine, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 66 (1916), 
no. 26, pp. 2051-2052. 

The Mineral MetaboUsm of the Milch Cow. E. B. Forbes and F. M. Beegle, Ohio Agr. 
Expt. Sta. Bui. 295, April, 1916. 

The Mineral Nutrients in Practical Human Dietetics. E. B. Forbes, Mo. Bui. Ohio Sta., 
1 (1916), no. 4, pp. 123-128; Jotir. H. E., 8 (1916), pp. 122-130. 

A Scale for Marking Nutrition. F. A. Manny, School and Soc, 3 (1916), no. 56, pp. 123, 
124. 

Casein-milk Feeding in Infancy and Childhood. W. Gellhorn, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc., 
65 (191.5), no. 10, pp. 853-855. 

The Calorimeter as the Interpreter of the Life Processes. .\ Study of the Fuel Require- 
ments of the Humiin Individi-al. G. Lusk, Sci. Amer. Sup., 81 (1916), no. 2097. p. 171. 

Sense Impression and Ap{x:titc. W. Sternberg, Internal. Beitr. Path. u. Thrr. Ernakrungs- 
stdr. StoJJ\i'. u. Verdauungskrank., 5 (1915), no. 4, pp. 421-433; abs. in Expt. Sta. Rcc., 35 
(1916), no. 1, p. 64. 

Cutaneous Reaction from Proteins in Eczema. K. D. Biackfan, Atntr. Jour. Diseases 
ChiUren, 11 (1916), no. 6, pp. 441^54. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



News Items from the Northwest. 
Miss Katherme Martindale has been ap- 
pointed instructor at the University of 
Washington to succeed Miss Elizabeth 
Rotherrael, who has resigned. Miss Martin- 
dale is a graduate of Smith College and 
received her professional training at the 
University of Wisconsin. 

Miss Lucy Dice, 1915, is to be cafeteria 
manager at the Young Women's Christian 
Association in Bellingham, Washington. 

Miss Lulu Condron, University of Wash- 
ington 1916, has been appointed instructor 
in Domestic Art subjects at the University 
of Wyoming. 

The following new teachers have received 
appointments in the Seattle Schools: .'\chsah 
Matthews, Columbia University; Georgia 
Meeks and Esther Nelson, University of 
Minnesota; Marguerite De Shon, Bradley 
Polytechnic; Florence Thome, Stout Insti- 
tute; Charlotte Davis, .\nna Warren, Eileen 
Houlahan and Stella Pierce, University of 
Washington. 

The Home Economics Section of the 
Inland Empire Teachers' Association met 
in Spokane, Washington, April 18, 19, and 
20, Miss Dorothy Shank presiding. This 
organization brings together the teachers 
from the four northwest states, Montana, 
Idaho, Washington, and Oregon. 

The following subjects were presented. 
Renew of recent Home Economics textbooks, 
Anna L. Post; How to avoid repetition in 
elementar>', high school, and college courses, 
Agnes H. Craig; Discussion, Grace G. Denny 
and Chloe Clark. 

The officers for next year are: Chairman, 
Grace G. Denny; Secretary and Treasurer, 
Miss Ford. 



A conference of the Washington Statt 
Association was held in connection with this 
meeting. The program was as follows: 
The social life of the girl as influenced by 
Home Economics training, Mary F. Rausch; 
The hot lunch as conducted by Cheney 
Normal, Mrs. Anderson; Extension work 
in Home Jt^conomics, Elizabeth Jones. 

The teachers of the west side of the state 
held a conference in Everett a week later. 
Miss Raitt, the president, conducted an 
informal discussion on the use of the practice 
cottage, the school apartment and the girl's 
own home in Home Economics teaching, 
and on the contribution of Home Economics 
teaching to the home. 

The Washington Home Economics Asso- 
ciation met with the Washington Educa- 
tional .Association in Spokane in October, 
with the following program: 

Morn ins Session. Home Economics in 
the high schools, from the superintendent's 
point of view, Supt. I. C. Pratt, Spokane; 
Discussion; The Home Economics teacher's 
contribution to extension work, W. S. 
Thormber, Director of Extension Di\-ision, 
Washington State College; Discussion. 

Afternoon Session. Report of Committee 
on Length of Period for Home Economics 
Work, .A.gncs H. Craig, Head of Home 
Economics Department, Washington State 
College; Report of Committee on School 
Lunches, Mrs. Anderson, State Normal 
School, Cheney. 

The University of Kentucky. Not only 
Kentucky, but all who are interested in 
Home Economics an>'\vhere, will rejoice in 
this letter from Miss Mary E, Sweeney, Dean 
of the College. 

"May I tell you of something that is 
making very happy everybody connected 

619 



620 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[November 



with Home Economics in Kentucky? The 
University of Kentucky has made of Home 
Economics, formerly a department of the 
College of Agriculture, a coordinating col- 
lege of the University of equal rank with 
law, engineering, and arts, and science. To 
us down here this is a great step fonvard 
and we think it presages a great awakening 
in the secondary- schools of the state and a 
realization upon the part of all women of 
the high character of their profession of 
homemaker and mother. 

"The Federation of Women's Clubs took 
an active part in bringing about the change 
and have in every possible way lent their 
influence and support to the movement. 
Their influence and interest in the future 
will prove a great factor in the future devel- 
opment of the college." 

The State Normal School of Harrison- 
burg, Va., reports that the interest in domes- 
tic science work has grown to such an extent 
as to require additional instructors, courses, 
and equipment. This \car nine new courses 
have been added, such as House Planning, 
House Furnishing and Decoration, Institu- 
tional Cookery and Catering, Institutional 
Management, Household Bacteriologj', and 
others. The new instructors are Miss 
Hannah Corbett, B.S., Teachers College, 
Columbia University; Mrs. Pearl !Moody, 
B.S., George Peabody College for Teachers; 
Miss Gertrude Button, B.S., Cornell Uni- 
versity. The head of the department is 
Miss Frances Sale, B.S., Teachers College, 
Columbia University, who has been \vith 
the school since its beginning seven years ago. 

The Agricultural High School in con- 
nection with the University of Nebraska 
has sulTcrcd from a condition existing in 
similar high schools, that is, requiring that 
the student carry six, seven, or more studies 
at the same time. A revision of the course 
has been made, grouping the work in such a 
way that the number of subjects has been 
reduced to five. Corresj>ondence with other 
technical and agricultural high schools re- 
veals the fact that the sequence of the sci- 



ences and the applied subjects is a much 
mooted question. The teachers of sciences 
wish to teach them to juniors and seniors and 
the teachers of the applied scrnces wish to 
have science taught early enough to be of 
value in their work. The sequence of sci- 
ence and food study which has been fairly 
satisfactory in the Nebraska Agricultural 
High School will be continued. It is: 
Freshmen year, physiology and hygiene; 
sophomore year, chemistry, food study, and 
physical geography one-half year; junior 
year, advanced food study, botany, and 
physics. 

Canadian Short Courses in Home Eco- 
nomics. The Ontario .\gricullural College 
can not acconamodate all who wish to come to 
Macdonald Institute for Home Economics 
training; and many desire Home Economics 
training who can not be spared from home. 
The college, therefore, is extending the use- 
fulness of ]\Iacdonald Institute by opening 
branches here -nd there in such communities 
as are willing and able to cooperate. 

The Ontario Agricultural College is pre- 
pared: 

To open a Macdonald Institute Branch 
provided at least 20 students agree to take 
the course. 

To provide the necessar>' class rooms and 
equip them with stoves, tables, sewing 
machines, etc. 

To provdde and pay a satisfactory teacher, 
who will be a member of the regular Mac- 
donald Institute staff. 

To maintain the work of the school. 

To give 24 students a short course in 
domestic science with a choice of two elec- 
tive subjects — the same as the short course 
given in Guelph. 

To give cither a 12 weeks' course five 
days a week, or a 20 weeks' course 3 days 
a wci'k. 

To hold an examination at the end of the 
course for any who wish to try it. Those 
pa.ssing would be eligible to enter the second 
term of The Homcnvikcrs Course in Guelph. 

The subjects prescribed with the number 
of fKriods per week, arc as follows: Plain 



coo! 

foods 

care 



1916] 

(kery, 10; plain sewing, 4; laundry, 3; 
ids, I; sanitation, 1; home nursing, I; 
" of the house, 3; English, 2; elective, 4. 

Alpha Chapter of Omicron Nu. During 
the past year, the Chapter has made an 
attempt at the standardization of Home 
Economics in the high schools throughout 
Michigan. This j)roblem seemed to us an 
especially interesting and important one, 
for, if a standard course of study could be 
worked out and introduced into high schools 
of the state, students would enter college 
on a uniform basis, with their abilities 
neither over nor under-estimated. 

With this in mind, a comparison was 
made of the high school courses offered 
in cities and towns of various sizes, thereby 
laying a foundation upon which we have 
planned to carry out our work for the com- 
ing year. 

The following is a list of our national 
officers for the coming year. 

President, Miss Georgia L. White, Dean 
of Home Economics, Michigan Agricultural 
College. 

Vice-President, Gladys Robinson, Purdue 
University, Lafayette, Indiana. 

Secretary, Emily Castle, Michigan Agri- 
cultural College. 

Treasurer, Mabel Moore, University of 
Illinois, Urbana, Illinois. 

The work of Beta Chapter of Omicron 
Nu during the past year was of necessity 
along financial lines. We began the year with 
a debt that seemed quite an incumbency 
to the five active members. After an ap- 
peal to the Alumnae, who responded very 
generousl}', we had a side show at the 
annual House Economics party, which 
this year took the form of a circus. The 
net proceeds did much to swell our bank 
account. Still more was needed and so 
we made and sold doughnuts — forty-five 
dozen. By these means we were able to 
raise our debt, and to send a delegate to 
the National Conclave held at .\mes, Iowa. 

Desiring a clean slate for next year's 
work, we sought to put ourselves on a 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



621 



firm financial basis. This we did by intro- 
ducing State College Seals. Of the order 
of 25,000 we have sold enough to cover the 
initial cost, and to start ne.xt year's bank 
account. This was accomplished during 
the last week of college. It is the plan to 
make the seals a steady source of income 
to the chapter. 

With our Senior and Junior accessions we 
had a total membership of fifteen at the 
close of the college year. 

We aim to come in close contact with the 
Freshmen of our department by giving them 
a tea early every fall. We keep in touch 
with our Alumnae by issuing yearly bulle- 
tins of our work. We ask them to give 
us from their experience what they consider 
we can do to prepare ourselves better for 
the problems we are sure to meet after 
leaving college, and how to prepare our- 
selves better in college for leadership after- 
wards. From their letters we plan to make 
a series of programs for our year's work. 

The Ely Club for Students. The Ely 
Club for students, established in New York 
City and conducted by the Alumnae of the 
Misses Ely School of Greenwich, Conn., 
though independent in its organization and 
management, provides a home for young 
women, who are either studying with a \\c\\ 
to self-support or who are in their first year 
of professional work. 

The object of the Club is to give to young 
students of limited means, from out of town, 
the protection and the privileges of a clean 
and comfortable home such as can not be 
had at the usual commercial boarding houses 
within their means. It is also intended to 
provide an opportunity for the stimulation 
of earnest endeavor, enhanced by com- 
munity interest, and an appreciation of the 
dignity of labor. 

The Club House accommodates twenty- 
two resident members. The dining room 
is open to non-resident members. 

The University of Wisconsin has, for 
1916-17, offered its first fellowship in Home 
Economics. The fellow this year is Miss 



622 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[November 



Brenda Sutherland of Melbourne, Australia, 
who did her undergraduate work and re- 
ceived hei Master of Science degree at the 
University of Melbourne. Since then she has 
done teaching and recently has taken her 
Bachelor of Arts degree at the University of 
Toronto, majoring in Home Economics. 
This fellowship is open to graduate students 
who have majored in Home Economics, and 
the applications should be in the hands of 
the Registrar of the University of Wisconsin 
by March 1 each year, since the appointment 
is made in March or April. 

Peace Prize Contest. The American 
School Peace League offers two sets of 
prizes, to be known as the Seabury Prizes 
for the best essays on one of the following 
subjects : 

1. What Education Can Do Toward the 
Maintenance of Permanent Peace. Open 
to seniors in normal schools. 

2. The Influence of the United States in 
the Adoption of a Plan for Permanent 
Peace. Open to seniors in secondary' schools. 

Three prizes of seventy-five, fifty and 
twenty-five dollars will be given for the 
best essays in both sets. 

Information concerning literature on the 
subject, and details in regard to the con- 
ditions of the contest may be obtained 
from the Secretary of the League, Mrs. 
Fannie Fern .Andrews, 405 Marlborough 
Street, Boston, Mass. 



Brief Notes. Miss Grace Schcrmer- 
horn, for three years associate professor 
of education and in charge of the practice 
teaching in Home Economici at Iowa State 
College, has resigned to accept the position 
of super\'isor in the schools of Long Beach, 
California. 

Miss Cora B. Miller who has been in 
charge of the public school work in Home 
Economics in Fort Dodge, Iowa, has 
resigned to accept a position as instructor 
in critic teaching, Iowa State College, 
Ames, Iowa. 

iMiss Mary Louise Tuttle, during the past 
year Director of the Social Work Depart- 
ment of the Women's Educational and In- 
dustrial Union, Boston, Mass., is now Direc- 
tor of the School of Home Economics in 
the Russell Sage College of Practical .Arts, 
Troy, N. Y. 

Two college instructors who ha\e lately 
resigned from their positions are Miss Jessie 
P. Rich, in charge of extension work at the 
University of Texas, now Mrs. B. L. .\mes, 
Montgomery, Ala., and Miss Luella Scovill 
of the University of Wisconsin, now Mrs. 
E. L. Harrison, Lexington, Ky. Both of 
these women have agreed to help this j-ear 
in the work of the Association and the 
Journal. 



Vol. VIII, No. 12 DECEMBER, 1916 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking. Institution .Manu(*ement. 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mm. ALict P. .VORTON. fi,/;/,.r KiTL-RAH t. IUlowi.s MjnjiiHt Editor 

EJiloridl Baari 
Mas. Mary H. .\bel .\nx\ Harrows C. F. Lancworthy Isabel Ely Lord Katiiarink Hum 

ExOjncio .l/fmvfj— Catharine J. MacKav, Prciidcnt .\merican Home Economics .\4iociati0n 
EuuA H. GiNTHER. Chairmnn ln<titution Economics Section 
Ruth Wherleb. Chairman Stlcncf Section 
.\eale S. K.nowles. Chairman Extension Educatioo Section 

C'W;j6ofu/ur<— The OtEcers. Members of the Council, and .Advisers 



CONTENTS 

Kkcent Work ox N'orm.m, .Kdilt Nitritio.v Kiilluiriiir lilmil 62.^ 

Some Recent Contrmu tio.ns or H \rTi:Rioi,or.Y t<i thi; FI<i\ii . .fosrp/iiiir Krrr Allison 6.?5 

\ iT.xMiVES, OR Lii-e-Preservi;ks \f iigjc, j^eiu, 542 

iliiw iiii: Soi.hiKRS or lu roi'i: aki. Ii;i> 1/rv. \tehil Dewev 649 

Krkuruk AcciM AM» llis Wkitixc.s on Food Chkmistrv [,ni,i II. W liilUlsev 653 

KvA M. Beneiiki., .\n .Vpprm iation \l„„„c lijuirh 656 

(Jl'ESTION H(JX (,5J< 

For the Homimakkk (,3(> 

Chilurkn's CiiKisTMAS (;iviN.. Enirsliiif I'. Sii'allow 65*) 

Tin: Hni si.iini.i) ki iKii.i.K\Tok \liini,i C. Diiiloii (}6\ 

.\n .\i)i(.ir\ri 1)11 T Cjf^ 

Fditorial (,f,7 

AnNOI NCE.\1ENT 5(,S( 

Books and I-iterature (,59 

Bibliography OF Home Economics 57 1 

News from the Field 573 



The Journal o: Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics .\ssucialioD 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.35. CANADIA.N S2.2D. SI.NGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on New Vorli, Express Order or Postal .Money Order oayauie 
to the American Home Economics .Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CHANGE IN .ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which tbr 
cbuge is to taJce enect. The subscriber's Old Address snould be clearly indicated in addition to the New .Address. 

.\iMERIC.\N HOME ECONOMICS .ASSOCI.ATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Mu. 

Entered as second ciass matter at the Baltimore Post Office 




I'ki.DKU K Acci M I Sec pa^i- 653) 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. VLll DECEMBER, 1916 No. 12 

RECENT WORK ON NORM/VL ADULT NUTRITION 

KATHARINE BLUNT 
University of Chicago 

This paper is a review of some of the recent work on normal adult 
nutrition. It follows Dr. Wheeler's' excellent survey in last Novem- 
ber's Journal, and includes roughly papers published between August, 
1915, and August, 1916, inclusive, with occasional mention of earlier 
work. The effort has been made to cling closely to the subject, so that 
questions of growth, including all work on vitaraines, and nutrition in 
disease have been omitted. The author has tried to choose from the 
mass of material what is most interesting and important to students of 
nutrition, but more or less arbitrary selections have sometimes of neces- 
sity been made. 

FATS 

On the digestibility of fat two papers have appeared. Langworthy 
and Holmes^ of the office of Home Economics, States Relations Service, 
incorporated four animal fats, butter fat, lard, beef and mutton fat, 
in a blanc mange made of skimmed milk, corn starch, and sugar flavored 
with caramel, thus disguising the fatty taste, and distributing the fat 
evenly through the food, and fed this in a simple diet. The coefficients 
of digestibility found varied from 97 per cent for the butter fat and 
lard, 93 per cent for the beef, to 88 per cent for the mutton fat, thus 
ranging the fats in the order of their melting points (32, 35, 45 and 50°) 

1 Wheeler, Ruth, Recent contributions to the foundations of dietetics. Jour. Home 
Econ., 7, (1915), pp. 469-479. 

' Langworthy, C. F., Holmes, A. D., I>igestibility of some aoimal fats. U. S. Dept. 
Agr. Bid. 310, (1915). 

623 



524 THE joTTRNAX OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

and also controverting the popular notion as to the indigestibility of 
lard. The increasing use of hydrogenated oils like crisco gives value 
to experiments' on the comparative digestibility of lard and a vegetable 
oil hydrogenated in the laboratory, both giving coefficients of about 
96 per cent. The fats in these experiments were fed in potato chips. 

Especially interesting on the subject of fat metabolism, are Bloor's 
papers. He is now working especially with the fat, "lipoids," of the 
blood.* His methods distinguish between true fats, phosphatides 
(lecithin, cephalin, etc.) and the higher alcohol cholesterol with its 
fatty acid esters. These are logically grouped together not only be- 
cause of their solubility in the ordinary fat solvents, but because they 
are all probably concerned in fat metabolism. In Bloor's experiments 
the lecithin of the blood was increased 20 per cent after feeding fat to 
fasting animals, and from this and other evidence he concludes that 
probably all absorbed fat passes through a lecithin stage, that fat is 
probably the inactive form, the form in which the lipoids are stored, 
and lecithin is the first step in their utilization. 

With tliis increased understanding of the importance of one class of 
phosphorus compounds in the body, the phosphorized fats, should be 
mentioned the report of some work done at the request of the Council 
on Pharmacy and Chemistry of the American Medical Association on 
two phosphorus compounds popularly used as tonics. The first, Mar- 
shall's^ on glycerophosphates, emphasizes the fact that the organism 
can assimilate phosphorus as readily from inorganic as organic forms, 
that the glycerophosphates are split up in the intestine into inorganic 
phosphates and that glycerophosphates are in no way superior to 
phosphates. "Glycerophosphates will continue to be manufactured 
until physicians refuse to prescribe them." The second is Marriott's* 
experiments and report on hy-pophosphites : "There is no reliable 
evidence that they exert a physiological effect; it has not been demon- 
strated that they influence any pathologic process; they are not 'foods.' 

•Smith, C. A., Miller, R. J., and Hawk, P. B., Studies on the relative digestibility and 
utilization by the human body of lard and hydrogenated vegetable oil. Jour. Biol. Client., 
23, (1015), pp. 505-511. 

♦ Bloor, W. R., Fat absorption and the hloo<i lipoids. Jour. Bid. Chem., 23, (1915), 
pp. 317-326. Fat assimilation. Ibid., 24, (1916), pp. 447-460. The distribution of the 
Upoids ("fat") in human blood. Ibid., 25, (1916), pp. 577-599. 

» Marshall, E. K., The therapeutic value of organic phosphorus compounds. Jour. 
Amn. Med. Ann., 64, (1915), p. 573, and Editorial, ibid., 66 (1916), p. 1205. 

'Marriott, W. McKim, The Uierapcutic value of the h>'popbospbitcs. J out. Amer. 
lied. Assn. 66, (1916), pp. 486-488. 



1916] RECENT WORK ON NORB4AL ADULT NUTRITION 



625 



If they are of any use, that use has never been discovered." In this 
and other connections Forbes'^ summary of mineral nutrients in human 
dietetics is of much interest. 



SUGARS 



The subject of the assimilation limit of sugars has been reopened 
with the result that the figures which have persisted for years in some 
of the text books will have to be abandoned. Taylor and Hulton' 
of the University of Pennsylvania make the statement that apparently 
in the majority of healthy male adults there is no liiiiit of assimilation of 
glucose. A group of medical students ingested the purest glucose in 
the form of a syrup in quantities ranging from 200 to 500 grams glucose, 
the latter amount being difficult to take and retain even by their most 
pracUced young men. Of nine subjects taking 300 grams only three 
showed glycosuria, of six taking 400 grams only two, and of the five 
taking 500 grams only one. Thus the experimenters reached a "limit 
of ingestion" of the glucose but no general limit of assimilation. These 
larger quantities of glucose showed no marked influence on the sugar 
of the blood and no intestinal disturbances. Levulose, on the other 
hand, did cause intestinal disturbance when 300 grams were taken, 
whether because of inherent dilTerence or some associated iiTipurity 
was not known. 

A quite different method for studying the tolerance of the system to 
sugars is to inject the sugar solution intravenously at a constant speed. 
The uncertain factors of digestion and absorption are thus eliminated. 
Woodyatt and his associates' at Rush Medical School report experi- 
ments with his improved machine showing extraordinarily high quanti- 
ties of glucose injected without glycosuria. A normal man of 70 kg., 
resting quietly in bed may actually receive and assimilate 63 grams 
glucose per hour. This is equivalent to 252 calories per hour or at the 
rate of 6048 calories per day. The injecrions have been conrinued for 
two and a half hours on men and as long as twelve hours on animals. 
The normal tolerance limit for glucose is established at about 0.85 grams 
glucose per kilogram per hour for an indefinite time. For levulose the 

^ Forbes, E. B., The mineral nutrients in practical human dietetics. Jour. Home Econ 
8, (1916), pp. 122-130. 

•Taylor, .-\. E., and Hulton, Florence, The limit of assimilation of glucose. Jour Biol 
Chem., 25, (1916), pp. 173-175. 

• Woodyatt, R. T., Sansum, W. D., and Wilder, R. M. Jour. Amer. Med. Assn.. 65. 
(1915), pp. 2067-2070. ' ' 



626 THE JOURNAL OP HOME ECONOMICS [December 

value is only one-sixth that for glucose — 0.15 gram; for galactose 0.1 
gram ; and for lactose near zero as known before. The authors say that 
the method employed might be "of general interest as a mean.-- of study- 
ing problems of absorption, metabolism, and elimination, and have 
therapeutic application." 

Sansum and Woodyatt'" have also determined the food value of com- 
mercial glucose or corn syrup in a novel way. They fed it to phlorizinized 
and glycogen-free dogs, and for controls fed chemically pure glucose. The 
sugar from the various carbohydrates should not be burned but elimi- 
nated in the urine. The commercial glucose yielded 95.48 per cent as 
much extra sugar as the pure substance and so was "capable of passing 
through whatsoever physiological processes of digestion, absorption, and 
assimilation are necessary for its ultimate existence in the body as 
<f-glucose. Commercial glucose has also been fed'^ to rats as an impor- 
tant part of their diet, with entirely satisfactory results as to growth 
and reproduction, the experiment proving, therefore, the probably com- 
plete availability of the different carbohydrates present and the entire 
absence of any deleterious by-products. These various experiments 
should lay to rest the prejudice still remaining in some minds against 
this valuable food material. 

The quickness with which the energy of the sugars is available to the 
body is quite notable. It may be shown by short time determinations 
of the respiratory quotient. Sucrose, lactose, levulose, and also alco- 
hol, begin to be burned in appreciable quantity in five to eleven min- 
utes; glucose and maltose require a longer time, from twenty to thirty 
minutes." 

Of significance in connection with metabolism of fats and carbo- 
hydrates is the great amount of recent work on acidosis. Most of it is 
on pathogical subjects and is therefore not discussed here, but a paper** 
from the Nutrition Laboratory and the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, 

"Sansum, W. D., and Woodyatt, R.T.,The use of phlorhizinized dogs to determine the 
utilizable carlx>hydratcs in foods. The food value of commercial glucose. Jour. Biol. 
Chem., 24, (1916), pp. 23-29. 

" Carlson, A. J., Hektocn, L., and LeCount, K. R., Effects of commercial glucose when 
fed to white rats. Jour. Amer. Chem. Soc, 38, (1916), pp. 930-936. 

" ILifipins, H. L., Rapidity with which alcohol and some sugars may serve as nutriment. 
AtMT. Jour. Physiol., 41, (1916), p. 258. 

" Higgins, H. L., Pcabody, !•". W., and Fitz, R., ,\ study of acidosis in three normal sub- 
jects with incidental observations on the action of aloobol as an antiketogeoic agent. Jour. 
Mtd. Research., 34, (1916), pp. 263-272. 



1916] RECENT WORK ON NORMAL ADULT NUTRITION 627 

Boston, deals with its production in three normal subjects by several 
days use of a carbohydrate-free diet — eggs, meat, fish, butter, and sugar- 
free cream. The resulting acidosis was measured by most of the methods 
now used for the purpose the — diminution of the alveolar carbon dioxide 
resulting from the presence in the blood of abnormal acids which unite 
with the available alkali and so dim.inish the carbon dioxide binding 
power, the increase of urinary ammonia, titratable acidity, and acetone 
bodies. Alcohol failed to check the acidosis. The most prominent 
subjective efifects were "loss of appetite, lack of energy, heaviness of the 
head, and a peculiar feeling of malaise." The first carbohydrate meal 
brought about immediate improvement. 

NITROGEN COMPOUNDS 

Surprising to many students of diet are Bateman's'* results (Yale, 
on the digestibility of raw egg-white. He worked with dogs, rats) 
rabbits, and men. This article deals chiefly with the results from the 
first three. The experiments on men are to be reported in detail later, 
but Batcman says that the results are closely similar to those with the 
other animals. The uncooked egg-white fed in fairly large quantity 
produced diarrhea, 4 to 5 eggs to dogs weighing 5.5 to 7 kg. and 5 to 7 
eggs to 10 to 12 kg. dogs. A water extract of the feces showed con- 
siderable coagulable protein, the unchanged egg-white; from 30 to 50 
per cent of the ingested white could be recovered as coagulum. The 
diarrhea followed the ingestion of the egg-white whether taken alone, 
beaten with milk, mixed with cracker-meal and lard, or mixed with 
cracker-meal and lard and flavored with extract of beef. On a meat 
diet with the experimental animals the per cent of utilization of the 
nitrogen ranged from 94.7 to 95.2, but on the raw egg-white from 49.8 
to 69.0. The utilization improved when the diet was continued, being 
86.7 per cent on the tenth day. If the egg-white was cooked the diarrhea 
stopped and the utilization rose to 90 per cent. Heating to 55° C. before 
feeding did not prevent the diarrhea, 55° to 60° considerably decreased 
it, and 70° or above prevented it entirely. The raw egg-white is at- 
tacked with much difficulty by the digestive enzymes, possibly because 
of their adsorption by it. Egg-yolk behaved quite differently, being 
well utilized either raw or cooked unless fed with too much other fat. 

" Bateman, W. G., The digestibility and utilization of egg proteins. Jour. Biol. Ch*m., 
26, (1916), pp. 265-291. 



628 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS pecember 

Bateman concludes with the statement: "In current dieto-therapy raw 
whole eggs, raw egg-white, and albumin-water are extensively pre- 
scribed. There appears to be little in their conduct as fcodstulTs, 
however, to warrant such faith in their nutritive value or ease of 
assimilation." 

Another false dietetic idea which has long persisted in this country 
is the harmfulness of ver>^ young or "bob" veal. The European custom 
has not made the discrimination but our federal and state laws pro- 
hibit the sale of calves less than three to six weeks old. Berg>^ of the 
Bureau of Animal Industry reports that chemical analysis of mature 
beef and immature veal brings out no differences that are dietetically 
significant, that the two digest in vitro at the same speed, and that 
young animals (cats) obtaining their only nitrogen from immature veal 
grow normally, and a pair after living on it for two-thirds of a year 
produced normal young. Later the Office of Home Economics^" under- 
took experiments on man to continue the work. First a number of 
individuals and families were given the very young veal cooked in 
different ways and found it entirely satisfactory and not conducive 
to any illness or distress. It was thought by some to be rather taste- 
less, and if roasted it presented a less appetizing appearance than the 
mature meats because of the greater shrinkage in cooking due to the 
loss of water from the larger quantity. The veal not more than five 
days old averaged 76 per cent water, and market veal 72 per cent. The 
coefficients of digestibihty determined on a group of young men were 
practically the same for the protein of the two veals-^93 per cent. An 
editorial'^ in the Journal of the American Medical Association in com- 
menting on the first of these papers on veal says that "it relieves food 
chemists and physicians from the embarrassment of having to confess, 
in the practical world, that they do not know why veal is not so good a 
food as beef or mutton." 

The Office of Home Economics'^ has also experimented on the digesti- 
bility of hard palates of cattle. The protein is about 86 per cent assimi- 
lated, somewhat less thoroughly than that of the common cuts of meat. 

" Berg, W. N., Biochemical comparison between mature beef and immature veal. Jour. 
Agr. Research, 5, (1916), pp. 667-711. 

" Langworthy, C. F., and Holmes, A. D., Digestibility of very young veal. Jour. Agr. 
Research, 6, (1916), pp. 577-588. 

"Editorial, Immature veal as food. Jour. Amtr. Med. Assn., 66, (1916), pp. 820,821. 

>• Langworthy, C. F., and Holmes, A. D., Digestibility of hard jialatcs of cattle. Jour. 
Agr. Research, 6, (1916), pp. 641-648. 



1916] RECENT WORK ON NORMAL ADULT NUTRITION (529 

A third point on which we may have to revise our ideas, more general 
than the young veal question, is the protein content of meat. Janney," 
using his improved methods for separating protein and non-protein, 
finds that the amount of protein as usually determined exceeds that 
actually present by 15 to 20 per cent. Chicken and ox muscle, for 
instance, both contain only 16.6 per cent protein, while the determi- 
nation made in the usual way on these materials gave 19.3 and 21.6 per 
cent. The errors in the usual figures are due to including non-protein 
nitrogenous compounds which contain about 13 per cent of the total 
nitrogen of muscle, and to using the inexact factor 6.25. 

Considerable further work has been brought out on the relation be- 
tween diet and uric acid. Among other papers may be mentioned 
Denis's'" giving figures which show that with individuals with normal 
kidneys the blood shows no increase of uric acid even after feeding large 
quantities of purines in the diet. The normal kidneys are very efl'icient 
in removing uric acid from the body. A German investigator''^ reports 
on the increasing uric acid of the urine after ingestion of the yeast food 
recently put on the market in Germany. Ten grams of the yeast in- 
creased the output as much as 100 grams of meat. The author there- 
for warns persons inclined to gout or to urate concrements against 
yeast, even, he goes so far as to say, in ordinary bread. 

Further effort has been made to measure and explain the occasional 
increases of urinary uric acid on diets free from purines. Taylor's 
short paper" of two years ago showed a uric acid excretion nearly three 
times as large on a purine-free high protein diet (egg-white) as on a 
practically nitrogen-free diet of purified starch and cane sugar. In 
some much more elaborate experiments Mendel and Stehle^' found 
that the hourly excretion of uric acid in man increased over the fasting 
output very slightly when sucrose was fed, not at all with fat, and 
markedly with protein (gluten). Various laxatives had no effect, 

" Jaoney, N. W., The protein content of muscle. Jour. Biol. Chem., 25, (1916), pp. 185- 
188. 

*' Denis, W., The effect of ingested purines on the uric acid content of the blood. Jour. 
Biol. Chem., 23, (1915), pp. 147-155. 

n Salomon, H., Munch. Med. Woch., 63, (1916), No. 13. Through Jour. Amer. Med. 
Assn., 66, (1916), p. 1589. 

** Taylor, A. E., and Rose, W. C, The influence of protein intake upon the formation of 
uric acid. Jour. Biol. Cfiem., 18, (1914), pp. 519-520. 

"Mendel, L. B., and Stehle, R. L., The rdle of the digestive glands in the excretion of 
endogenous uric acid. Jour. Biol. Chem., 22, (1915), pp. 215-231. 



(J30 TEE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

but pilocarpine, a drug which stimulates the secretory apparatus of the 
alimentary tract, increased the uric acid. They conclude that "the 
uric acid output, aside from the portion arising from precursors in the 
food, depends, to some extent at least, upon the degree to which the 
digestive glands are called into activity." 

Another open question in purine metabolism, the failure of the body 
to excrete uric acid corresponding to the full amount of purine in the 
food, has been approached-* by feeding sodium nucleate. The purines 
of the urine (uric acid and bases) accounted for from only 14 per cent 
to 30 per cent of the purine of the nucleate. The irregular loss is prob- 
ably explained by bacteriological destruction of varying intensity. A 
very interesting summary" of his own and other work on purine metab- 
olism has been brought out by Professor Wells of the University of 
Chicago. 

Denis's work on uric acid of normal blood mentioned above and 
Bloor's on the lipoids of blood is illustrative of the fact that "the center 
of analytical interest in both normal and pathological metabolism is 
shifting from the urine to the blood. "^s There are further determinations 
of the non-protein nitrogen of the blood (urea, amino acids, etc.), some" 
slightly higher than the earlier ones of Folin and Denis and some" 
approximately the same. Studies like these blood analyses on normal 
subjects are constantly increasing in number and in accuracy. Their 
value is plain both for an understanding of normal processes of metab- 
olism and as a firm basis for pathology and therapy. 

GASTRIC DIGESTION 

Investigations"' '" of gastric digestion continue from this same point 
of view — the normal as the basis. As some of the papers consist largely 

" Givens, M. H., and Hunter, A., Experiments upon the fate of ingested sodium nucleate 
in the human subject. Jour. Biol. Chem., 23, (1915), pp. 299-309. 

"Wells, H. G., Some features of purine metabolism. Jour. Lab. Clin. Med., 1, (1915), 
pp. 16^171. 

»• Editorial. Jour. Amer. lied. Assn., 67, (1916), p. 956. 

" Gettler, A. O., and Baker, W., Chemical and ph>'sical examination of the blood m thirty 
normal cases. Jour. Biol. Chem., 25, (1916), pp. 211-222. 

" Bang, I., Investigation of the residual nitrogen of the blood. Biochem.Z., 72, (1915). 
Five papers. Discussed in Editorial. Jour. Amer. .\fed. Assn., 66, (1916), p. 1781. 

"Talbot, E. S., The examination of normal gastric secretion by the fractional method. 
Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 66, (1916), p. 1849. 

»• Fowler, C. C, Rehfuss, M. E., and Hawk, P. B., Investigation of the gastric residuum 
in over one hundred normal cases. Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 65, (1915), pp. 1021-1025. 



1916] RECENT WORK ON NORMAL ADULT NUTRITION (531 

of figures and curves they can not well be abstracted. Carlson,*^ 
working on his man with a gastric fistula, reports high acidity (0.5 per 
cent) of the normal appetite secretion, only ver>' slight secretion on 
seeing food, and much secretion, averaging 70 cc. in twenty minutes, on 
chewing palatable food, and in general the more palatable the food the 
greater the volume of the juice. One interesting point (Kast's paper)" 
is that with healthy individuals fatigue, either physical or mental, 
has very little efTect upon gastro-intestinal motility. In patients with 
pathological digestive conditions fatigue does lessen motility, mental 
having more effect than physical. The time necessary for peptic 
digestion" may be much increased by the presence of cooked starch — 
the pure starch in colloidal solution, or cooked rice, potatoes, bread, 
etc. Dextrin does not hinder the digestion at all. That is, if cooked 
farinacious food is not partially digested by the saliva the pepsin is 
adsorbed by the starch and hence much diminished in activity. This, 
of course, gives a very important function to the salivary amylase. 

NEW FOODS 

Several new foods are being urged. Soy beans as a constituent of 
canned baked beans are already widely advertised. Cottonseed meal 
as a human food is the subject of a vigorous propaganda. The seed 
contains a substance, gossypol," toxic to many animals, especially 
pigs, if taken in more than moderate amounts; the oxidation products 
of this substance are not harmful. The nutritive value of cotton seed 
meal for rats has been investigated by Richardson and Green" of the 
Department of Domestic Economy, University of Texas. They found 
it non- toxic. 

The South Dakota Agriculture Experiment Station'" discusses the 
value of millet as human food and proposes to rechristen it proso, so 

" Carlson, A. J., et al.. Chemistry of normal human gastric juice. Amer. Jour. Physiol., 
38, (1915), pp. 248-267. The secretion of gastric juice in man. Ibid., 37, pp. 50-73. 

" Kast, L., Effect of fatigue upon gastro-intestinal motility. Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol, and 
Med., 13, (1916), p. 79. 

" Maxwell, L. A. I., The relation of salivary to gastric secretion. Biochem. Jour., 9, 
(1915), pp. 323-329. 

** Withers, W. A., and Carruth, F. E., Gossypol, the toxic substance in cottonseed meal. 
Jour. Agr. Research, 5, '1015), pp. 261-288. 

** Richardson, Anna E., and Green, Helen S., Nutrition investigations on cottonseed meal. 
Jour. Biol. Chem., 25, (1916), pp. 307-318. 

»«Nansen, N. E., Proso and kaoliang as table foods. S. Dak. Agr. Exp. Sla. Bui. 158, 
(1915), pp. 147-176. 



632 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

that its name will not have association with fodder. Kaoliang is a 
drought-resistant grain sorghum whose seed can be milled. Avocado'^ 
is a California fruit averaging 20 per cent fat. The United States De- 
partment of Agriculture Bulletin on fermented milks'^ is valuable. The 
many interesting efforts of the Germans to adapt themselves to a limited 
food supply and to utilize all possible sources of food have already 
been summarized in the Journal.'^ 

SUBSTANCES ADDED TO FOODS 

New Food Inspection Decisions (164 and 173)*** permit an eighth 
coal-tar color, a yellow, and forbid the use of the foam producing sub- 
stance, saponin. This has been employed as a substitute for white 
of egg in meringues, frosting, fillings, marshmallows, etc. It serves 
"solely as a foam producer" giving "a fictitious appearance of body and 
therefore of food value," so "concealing damage or inferiority." In 
connection with color in foods Palmer's work on natural yellow is most 
interesting. The carotin, associated with the chlorophyll in green 
grass, etc., is not decomposed in the cow's body, but persists in the milk 
fat, body fat, blood serum, etc. Hence natural yellow butter can be 
obtained only when the carotin of the cow's food is high. The yellow 
in egg yolk, fowls' fat, etc., is xanthophyll.^^ Therefore when dietary 
whims demand yellow egg yolks, yellow corn may be fed, and for color- 
less poultry flesh, not yellow com, but skim milk. The color, added or 
natural, is no indication of nutritive excellence. 

The use of benzoic acid in ketchups is diminishing.^- In 1910 of 
ketchups examined in Pennsylvania 90 per cent contained this pre- 
servative, and in 1915 only 24 per cent. The cause of the improvement 
is probably "the fact that manufacturers have found it cheaper in the 
end to maintain sanitary conditions, and effect, through sterilization 
of the product, the desired end, than to depend on the uncertain and 

" Jaffa, M. E., The nutritive value of the avocado. Univ. Col. Agr. Exp. Sla. Bui. 254, 
(1915), pp. 395-402. 

»• Rogers, L. A., Fermented milks. U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui. 319, (1916). 

••Wheeler, Ruth, The war and dietetics: and Barrows, S. T., A triumph of scientific 
housekeeping. Jour. Home Ecoii., 8, (1916), pp. 488 and 495. Sec also Lusk, G., Food 
economics. Jour. Wash. Aca*l. Sci., 6, (1916), pp. 387-3%. 

** Service and regulatory announcenicnts no. 17. U. S. Dept. Agr. Bur. Chcm., May 12, 
1916. 

" Talmer, L. S., Xanthoi)hyll, the principal natural ycUow pigment of the egg yolk, 
body fat and blood scrum of the hen. Jour. Biol. Chcm., 2^ (I''15), i)p. 261-279. 

*• La Wall, C. II., Dept. Agr. Dairy atul Food Bureau, Ilarriiburi, Pa., Bui. 272. 



191 6J RECENT WORK ON NORMAL ADULT NUTRITION 633 

questionable efBciency of a preservative." Also sodium benzoate which 
before the war sold for less than fifty cents a pound, at the time of the 
bulletin was more than S5. "The sodium benzoate controversy bids 
fair to be settled in a most interesting and unexpected raanner." 

ENERGY 

Determinations of the energy production of the human machine, so 
important to scientific dietetics, have continued, some of the results 
being rather surprising. The energ}' production in fast walking^* 
is nearly twice that in slow, but in running it is slightly lower. For 
walking one meter slowly 0.5 small calories per kilogram body weight 
are produced, 0.932 for fast walking, and 0.806 for running. The latter 
difference is probably due to the larger amount of arm motion. With 
the arms swinging vigorously the metabolism may be increased 125 per 
cent; yet we have inclined to ignore the importance of "minor motions.'* 
Another investigation shows that the metabolism is 3 per cent lower sitting 
in a steamer chair than lying flat in bed." It is possible that the di- 
minished pressure on the diaphragm when the body is supported in the 
inclined position lessens the work of breathing enough to account for 
the unexpected dilTerence. The basal metabolism of normal boys twelve 
or thirteen years old is 25 per cent higher than that of adults, corrected 
for height and weight^^ — a very large increase. Obese subjects generally 
show no difTerence from lean in the basal metabolism, provided it is 
computed, not on basis of weight, but per unit of body surface, even 
though the obesity is of a most extreme t>pe.''^ Considerable further 
work has been done on pathological subjects. 

Comparatively few studies of the diet of groups of adults have been 
made during the past year. GephartV^ investigation of St. Paul's 
School was, of course, on adolescent boys, but is of great interest, because 
the boys consumed the extraordinary amount of 5000 calories per day. 
This was made up of 4350 calories supplied by the table and an additional 
650 calories bought by the boys in chocolate, etc. 

Very interesting as an application of recent work in nutrition to limited 

** Benedict, F. G., and Murschhauser, H., Energy transformations during horizontal 
walking. Carnegie Inst, of Wash., Publication 231, n915). 

** Soderstrom, G. L., Meyer, A. L., and DuBois, E. F., A comparison of the metabolism 
of men flat in bed and sitting in a steamer chair. Arch. Int. Med., 17, (1916), pp. 872-886. 

*• DuBois, E. F., The metabolism of boys twelve and thirteen years old compared with 
the metabolism at other ages. Arch. Int. Med., 17, (1916), pp. 887-901. 

«« Means, J. H., The basal metabolism in obesity. Arch. Int. Med., 17, (1916), pp. 704-710. 

" Lusk, G., Food economics. Jour. Wash. Acad. Set., 6, (1916), p. 390. 



(334 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

conditions are two reports of Prof. A. E. Taylor of the University of 
Pennsylvania on the Conditions of Diet and Nutrition in the Intern- 
ment Camp at Ruhleben, a camp for 3700 interned British .ivilians in 
Germany. He submitted the reports, after visits, through the United 
States Ambassador to the British Secretary of State for Foreign AfTairs. 
The writer has not been able to see the full reports, merely the discussion 
of them in the Journal of the American Medical Association.^^ In the 
first, Taylor enumerates six criteria of what should constitute a complete, 
sufficient, and normal diet for such persons — from 70 to 90 grams of protein 
per day provided this contains all the needed amino acids; at least 30 
calories per kilogram for those at rest or at light exercise, and a total of 
3000 calories or more, if the body works; a certain amount of native 
fat, probably at least 25 to 50 grams per day, quite possibly necessary, 
not for the glycerides themselves, but for other components; the various 
salts required in the body; certain substances of unknown chemical 
nature, vitamines, found especially in vegetables and in the covering 
of grains; some food either freshly cooked or consumed raw. Also, 
Taylor says, some account needs to be taken of the habits, customs, 
tastes and idiosyncrasies of the subjects. The first six criteria were 
fairly well met, according to the first report, but the British dislike the 
German cooking. Also the food shipped in from England is like the 
food supplied by the Germans, poor in fat and rich in starch. The second 
report indicates a more serious situation, the diets furnished being es- 
sentially fat-free. Fish and margarin have been withdrawn. 

The student of nutrition must be increasingly interested in the correct 
feeding of the population as a whole and therefore in all efforts to in- 
crease knowledge of diet and to correct abuse of the food supply. The 
twelfth Report of the Henry Phipps Institute of Philadelphia calls 
attention to certain very unsatisfactory conditions in that city. A 
recent comment" on the report may serve as a conclusion to this paper. 
"The control of the food supply of adults, to such an extent at least as 
to prevent disease, .... represents, doubtless, the most im- 
portant question now occupying the minds of sanitarians, the practical 
application of which to municipal affairs will do a great deal to prevent 
the occurrence of many of the intestinal affections, at least, but probably 
of most others also, which still flourish in large cities." 

♦• Editorial, A report on nutrition in a German internment camp. Jour.Amer. Med. Asm., 
67, (1916), pp. 125, 126. Tood abuses in war limes. Ibid., 67, (1916), p. 515. 

*» Editorial, Municipal control of food materials. .lour. Amer. Med. Assn., 67. (1916), 
p. 955. 



1916] CONTRIBUTIONS OP BACTERIOLOGY TO THE HOME 635 

SOME RECENT CONTRIBUTIONS OF BACTERIOLOGY TO 

THE HOME 

JOSEPHINE KERR ALLISON 
University of Illinois 

After considering some recent investigations of the pasteurization of 
milk, this paper will review a few papers upon the r61e of bacteria in 
nutrition or " bacteriotherapy" as it is sometimes called. 

Considerable time and pains have been taken to establish a proper 
temperature at which to pasteurize milk. Th. Smith, Russell, Hast- 
ings, Hesse, Rosenau,' and others found that bovine tubercle bacilli 
in milk are not infective for guinea pigs when milk is heated at 60°C. for 
20 minutes, and 60 to 63°C. (140-145° F.) has been established as the 
lowest safe temperature at which milk may be pasteurized and be free 
from pathogenic microorganisms. 

There is no lack of evidence showing that raw milk is a very excellent 
carrier of infectious disease. Jordan,^ in a splendid consideration of 
the subject of pasteurization of milk, has cited interesting figures. Of the 
cases traced to milk there is recorded a total of 346 outbreaks of typhoid 
fever, 137 epidemics of scarlet fever, 53 outbreaks of diphtheria, and 
18 outbreaks of septic sore throat, besides cases of gastrointestinal 
catarrh, Asiatic cholera, anthrax, hydrophobia, hoof and mouth dis- 
ease, and diarrhoea in infants. Cases are cited showing that the dairy 
causing the trouble was often faultlessly clean and neat, and the workers 
were cleanly, but proved to be innocent carriers of typhoid or diphtheria 
bacilli. The work of Park and Knimwiede,» who found that 6 to 10 
per cent of deaths from tuberculosis in children under 5 years, in New 
York, is caused by bacilli of the bovine t}TDe, and the confirmation of this 
work by the British Royal Commission on Tuberculosis in 1911, leaves 
no doubt as to the effectiveness of heating milk as a safeguard against 
tuberculosis in children. There is some proof that the amount of in- 
fectious disease is lowered by the pasteurization of milk in cities where 
it is practiced. Rosenau, Lumsden, and Kastle observed that the lowest 
proportion of typhoid fever was on a milk route in Washington in 1906 
and 1907 where there were sterilized bottles and pasteurized milk. Sta- 

' Cited after Jordan, The case for pasteurization, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 59 (1912), 
pp. 1450-7. 
» Ibid. 
' Cited after Jordan. 



636 TEE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS pDeccmber 

tistics are given for Chicago and Boston showing lowering in typhoid 
death rate after the pasteurizing rules were enforced. 

Park and Holt* found a marked decrease in infant mortality which 
they attributed directly to pasteurization of milk. 

The bone of contention with regard to the process has been rather 
thoroughly fought over. Such questions as this have arisen: Is it not 
a shelter for the unscrupulous dairyman? Is not pasteurization a 
means of disguising dirty milk? May not disease germs enter the milk 
after it is pasteurized and thus render it more dangerous than raw milk 
which has not the protection of a label? Is heated milk as digestible 
and nutritious as raw milk? Will pasteurized milk sour normally or will 
it peptonize and putrefy? Are the lactic acid bacteria all killed? If 
not, what relation do those surviving the process bear to the other milk 
bacteria which survive the process? What are the keeping quahties of 
heated milk? Does it develop an unpleasant taste and what is the cause 
of this? Some very interesting and careful work has been done with 
regard to all these questions. 

We must pass over the enforcement of pasteurizing laws and other 
laws regarding clean milk suppHes and go to the question of whether 
heated milk is as digestible and nutritious as raw milk. Brenne- 
mann^ found that raw milk is more likely than boiled to produce large 
curds which hinder digestion. Janet Lane-Claypon^ found that infants, 
Hke other young animals, thrive best on the milk of their own species, 
and that it is immaterial, so far as nutrition is concerned, whether the 
milk is boiled or not. Infants fed with milk drawn from the breast of a 
wet nurse, and boiled previous to use, appear to thrive just as well as 
when the same milk is given fresh. At the end of a year, babies fed on 
boiled milk show no greater percentage of rickets than breast babies. 

With regard to the question, "Will pasteurized milk sour normally 
or will it peptonize and putrefy?" there is some diversity of opinion. 
Housekeepers and others handling pasteurized milk observe that it 
sours more slowly than raw milk and oftentimes develops a peculiar 
unpleasant taste and a disagreeable odor. These observations have 
led many to the opinion that the pasteurizing processes arc not satis- 
factory and that the milk is left in a very undesirable condition. This 

* Arch. Pedial., 20 (1903), p. 881. 
' Cited after Jordan. 

'Report to Local GoverarucDt Board, new Scr. No. 63, 1912, Abs. Lancet, London, 
.\pril 27. 1912, p. 1140. 



1916] CONTRIBUTIONS OF BACTERIOLOGY TO THE HOME 637 

opinion is rather widespread and has stimulated considerable investiga- 
tion of this point. 

Fliigge,^ in 1894, found that bacterial spores survive the process of 
pasteurization and germinate. Three peptonizing species isolated 
caused death when inoculated into laboratory animals. Milk cultures 
fed to puppies caused illness and death. Flugge went so far as to state 
from these observations that pasteurized milk is "dangerous." Ford 
and Pryor* investigated this point with 78 samples of Baltimore milk 
taken from 21 dairies, and set out to confirm or deny Fliigge's state- 
ment that "milk contains heat-resistant spores of aerobic and anaerobic 
bacteria which cause changes in milk, making it a dangerous article of 
diet." They concluded that such changes do take place when milk 
is heated anywhere from 65° to 100°C. and kept at anywhere from 
22° to 37°C., but not when kept in the ice box at 4° to 6°C. The spores 
do, however, live for a long period when the samples are kept in the ice 
box. The authors found 65° to 85°C. to be a danger zone for pasteuri- 
zation in which it will never clot normally. These investigators con- 
sider it safest to boil the milk from 10 to 30 minutes and then preserve 
it on ice. They state that it has not been chemically shown that the 
bacteria surviving pasteurization cause derangements in the metabolism 
of children. Tissier and Gasching,^ studied the organisms concerned in 
the putrefaction of meat and milk. After the careful isolation and 
identification of these organisms, they concluded that "in the absence 
of predisposing causes, the bacteria concerned in the putrefaction of 
meat and milk are not believed to cause digestive disturbances and this 
is supported by experunents upon man and animals. Therefore, al- 
though subsequent workers have found spores of aerobes and anaerobes 
surviving pasteurization, there is, as Jordan'" has said, no proof for 
Flugge's contention that "dangerous" peptonizing forms develop. 

ColweU and Sherman," found that pasteurization at 60°C. restrains 
peptonizing to the same extent as souring, and that apparently pasteur- 
ization has no constant effect in rendering the milk either more or less 
liable than raw milk to the development of offensive odors. Ayers and 
Johnson" have found that commercially pasteurized milk sours through 

-< Ztschr.f. Hyg., 16 (1894), p. 272. 

» Bui. Johns Hopkins IJosp. 25 (1914), pp. 270-76. 

'Ann. Inst. Pasteur 17 (1903), no. 8, pp. 540HS3. 
'"See 1. 

" Cited after Jordan. 
" U. S. Dept. Agr. Bur. .\nim. Indus. Bui. 126, pp. 98. 



658 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

the development of lactic acid bacilli which survive the heating process. 
They have divided the bacteria which resist pasteurization into four 
groups, namely acid formers, indifferent species, alkali formers, and 
peptonizing bacteria. According to these workers the percentage of 
acid formers is raised by pasteurization, while the other groups are 
diminished. The average percentage of lactic acid bacteria in raw 
milk is increased by heating for ^ hour at 62.8°C. (145° F.) from 1.27 
per cent to 4.55 per cent. As long as the pasteurizing temperature is 
under 76.7°C. (170° F.) the heated milk possesses a greater part of the 
acid group. In temperatures over 76.7°C. the group of acid formers is 
for the most part destroyed and the remaining bacteria belong to the 
peptonizing group. When different grades of milk are pasteurized in 
the laboratory at 62.8°C. (145° F.) and kept at room temperature three 
different kinds of behavior are observed. In case of good milk the acid- 
forming bacteria quickly develop and overgrow the other species and a 
normal coagulation occurs. In pasteurized milk of poor grade, the 
group of peptonizing bacteria quickly develop, outgrowing the acid 
group; there is in the beginning a lab-like coagulation; it is soured in 
consequence of the lactic acid bacteria, but pep^ onized also. The third 
class includes those samples of good milk in which there is an over- 
growth of peptonizing bacteria; the milk is peptonized without souring. 

If milk is kept in the ice box at 10°C. the growth of peptonizing bac- 
teria is held back and their significance is less marked. The percentage 
of lactic acid bacteria remains for a long time the same. Occasionally 
after 5 days the alkali formers predominate; at other times, the acid 
formers. 

Weigmarm, Wolff, Trensch and Steflfen" have taken up the findings 
of Ayers and Johnson and have sought to confirm them. They had 
observed that milk pasteurized with the new continuous heating ap- 
paratus of Edward Ahlborn in most cases undergoes acid coagulation, 
but it often happens that after many days standing there occurs a 
change even when the pasteurized milk has the appearance of keeping; 
apparently there is a decomposition of the proteins. Bacteriological 
examination showed considerable numbers of protcin-spHtting bacteria 
accounting for the fact that the soured, coagulated milk had a bad taste. 
So-caUed "good" milk acted no differently from "bad" milk in this re- 
spect. Thorough laboratory investigation based upon these observations 

^Cmibl.f. Bakt., 45 (1916), Abt. U, no. 115, pp. 63-107. 



1916] CONTRIBUTIONS OF BACTERIOLOGY TO THE HOMl 639 

of practical experience confirmed Ayers' and Johnson's finding that the 
relative proportion of lactic acid bacteria to the other milk bacteria is in- 
creased after pasteurization at 60° to 63°C. for 30 minutes, and they con- 
cluded that there must be fewer of them killed than of the other milk 
bacteria. However, comparisons of growths in plain and in sugar cal- 
cium carbonate agar, made at frequent periods after pasteurization, 
have shown that lactic acid bacteria, even if they survive pasteur- 
ization in considerable numbers, are not able to bring about a normal 
souring, because their abihty to multiply, as well as to form acid, is con- 
siderably diminished. After the milk is several days old the peptonizing 
species develop unhindered and bring about an unfavorable change- 
According to these investigators 99.86 per cent of the bacteria in milk 
are killed by heating at 63°C. for 30 minutes, that is, for 1000 bacteria 
in raw milk there are 1.4 remaining after pasteurization. 

While it has been shown that there are enormous dangers in the 
consumption of raw milk in transmitting infectious disease, and while 
it has been proved that pasteurized milk safeguards infants against 
summer diarrheas and is no harder to digest than raw milk, yet the facts 
pointed out by Fliigge and others indicate that there is still something 
lacking in the palatability and souring properties of pasteurized milk. 
It is still left for someone to perfect a method by which milk may be 
freed from its pathogenic organisms and still remain palatable on stand- 
ing. As Bienstock" has suggested, the ideal would be milk prepared 
for use so that the pathogenic bacteria would be killed, while the lactic 
acid bacteria would remain alive. Since this is not possible one must 
resort to other means to give back to pasteurized milk the antiputrid 
properties of raw milk. One could add, to sterilized milk, cultures of 
the lactic acid bacillus, but there is a simpler means which Bienstock 
suggests. Since Bacillus coli and Bacillus lactis aerogenes occur in 
good water as well as in bad, he suggests the addition of tap water to 
sterilized milk. 

Researches upon the harmless species which are parasitic to man are 
less widely known than those upon species which set up definite path- 
ological processes, probably because of the tremendous importance of 
the latter in medicine and surgery. However, the literature is not lacking 
in studies upon the parasitic flora of the mouth, the skin, and the intes- 
tine. It is of the last mentioned that I wish to speak. The names of 

^*Arch!vfur Hygiene, 39 (1901), p. 390. 



6^ THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

Nuttall and Thierfelder, Metchnikofif, Schottelius, Escherich, Moro, 
Tissier, Bienstock, Rodclla, Schmidt, Strasburger, Klein, Passini, 
Herter, and Kendall are as closely linked with the investigations of 
normal parasitic intestinal flora as are those of Koch, Shiga, Eberth, 
PfeilTer, Gafifky, Gruber, Widal, Fiexner, and others, with investigations 
of parasites which set up a specific disease condition in the intestines. 

The classic researches of Metchnikof!, Nuttall and Thierfelder, 
and Schottelius upon the determination of the role of the bacteria of 
the intestine are too well known to deserve more than mention. Esche- 
rich, Moro, Tissier, and Rodella have been interested in the normal para- 
sitic flora of children, while Bienstock, Passini, Metchnikofif, Herter, 
Kendall, and others have studied that of adults. 

Since the sour milk therapy has become popularized very interesting 
papers have come out; and there is some definite information in answer 
to such questions as, Is it better to take butter-milk or Bacillus bul- 
garicus tablets? Is it possible by ingesting such acid resisting 
organisms as Bacterium acidi lactici. Bacillus bulgaricus or Bacillus 
acidophilus to establish them parasitical ly in the intestine, thereby 
preventing the development of putrefactive bacteria to which they are 
antagonistic? 

KendalP* has pointed out that those species that are capable of fer- 
menting carbohydrates and putrefying proteins always attack the 
former first and produce end products which are harmless and easily 
ehminated. Basing the treatment upon this observation and the further 
observation that pathogenic microorganisms elaborate less of their toxins 
when grown in sugar-containing media, Kendall gave lactose to infants in 
cases of bacillary dysentery. Theoretically at least, the advantages of 
such a diet are the following: (1) the dangers of the former starvation 
treatment are avoided; (2) the lactose absorbed spares protein in 
metabolism; (3) lactose is preferred by the bacteria and protein is 
spared in the intestine; (4) harmless products result from bacterial 
decomposition of carbohydrates while from proteins toxins may be 
produced; (5) lactose is the normal carbohydrate of infants and its 
slower absorption both avoids overloading the blood and prolongs its 
beneficial effects on intestinal conditions. Bacillus coli, a normal para- 
site, becomes antagonistic to Bacillus dysenteriae and forms acids 
which inhibit the growth of Bacillus dysenteriae. Of thirty-nine cases 
reported, 20 lived, 19 died; of the 19 that died 8 received no sugar. 

»»/our. Med. Research, 25 (1911), p. 117. 



1916] CONTRIBUTIONS OP BACTERIOLOGY TO THE HOME 641 

Torrey" reported observations of the flora of typhoid patients. 
When a high calorie diet containing considerable carbohydrate was 
given the flora was simpler and more nearly resembled that of the 
nursling. When this simple flora was found (principaUy Bacillus 
acidophilus) the fever ran a mild course. 

Rettger»7 found that chicks fed upon milk diet showed greater 
resistance to Bacillus pullorum, the bacillus of white diarrhea, than 
those given the ordinary chick feed. Rettger attributes this resistance 
to the lactose in the milk, and suggests that it is a property peculiar to 
lactose, for the other sugars did not give such a favorable result. 

Rahe's'8 results concerning the so-called implantation of Bacillus bul- 
garicus throw light upon the question, Can one implant acid resisting 
organisms in the intestine as a safeguard against putrefaction? Even 
when a liter of a 48 hour-old culture of Bacillus bulgaricus was in- 
gested the organisms did not become parasitic and disappeared from 
the intestine shortly after the ingestion of the cultures was stopped. 

In summing up this point it may be said that a rational bacterio- 
therapy applicable to all classes of cases is not yet worked out. There 
is definite information concerning many of a normal parasitic species. 
Their morphological and biochemical activities are pretty definitely 
understood. Concerning their action in vivo the threshold has only 
been approached and complicating factors are met on every hand. 

SUMMARY 

1. The few recent contributions here cited offer excellent examples 
of the manner in which definite and reliable information is accumulaUng 
on subjects related to the problems of pure food and nutrition. 

2. The enormous dangers in the consumption of raw milk lead us to 
look to pasteurization as a safeguard, even if, as careful experimentation 
and practical experience show, it leaves the milk in an imperfect condi- 
tion. There is opportunity for perfection of the process. 

3. With more knowledge of the biochemical properties of the bacteria 
of the digestive tract, with the study of their relationships in health 
and disease, will come an understanding of their rdle in nutrition. 

'"/owr. Infect. Dis., 16 (1915), pp. 72-108. 
"/our. Experimental Medicine, 21 (1915), 365-88. 
"/(wr. Infect. Dis., 16 (1915), p. 210-20. 

NoU. The University of Illinois Dairy pasteurizes its milk for city trade in a cream 
ripenmg fat with a steam coil at 140°C. for twenty minutes to one-half hour. 



642 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

VITAMINES, OR LIFE-PRESERVERS 

M. HELEN KEITH 
Assistant in Animal Nutrition, University of Illinois 

The word "vitamine" may be translated "essential to life," and the 
translation may pass for a definition, since it is descriptive of nearly 
all that is known about this class of compounds. The defijiition sets 
no Hmits as to the chemical nature of the compounds that may be in- 
cluded as vitamines, because little is as yet known on that matter. 

The name vitamine was given by Casimir Funk in 1912^ to a prep- 
aration, made from the outer layers of rice grains, which was able to 
cure pigeons of the disease polyneuritis, brought on by a diet of rice 
from which the outer layers had been removed by the "polishing" 
process. He named the preparation "essential to life" because his 
experiments seemed to prove that it was the lack of this essential sub- 
stance which brought on the fatal polyneuritis in pigeons and beriberi 
in men and women whose diet was restricted to poHshed rice. He very 
soon found yeast to be a very good material from which to obtain the 
Hfe-preserving preparation, and since that time several investigators 
have prepared, from a number of different foods, substances which 
have shown a similar curative or preserving power against beriberi and 
other so-called "deficiency" diseases. 

As long ago as 1897 Eijkman came to the conclusion that the prev- 
alence of beriberi in the Far East is due to the custom in those countries 
of hving for several months at a time almost exclusively on decorticated 
(polished) rice. Persons who used the unhusked rice or parboiled 
(cured) rice, which had been previously steamed to remove the peri- 
carp, did not contract the disease. A large number of investigations 
followed this important discovery, and are still going on. Various 
theories have been advanced as to the cause of the disease. Theories 
of bacterial infection, of toxic substances in the food, and of phytin or 
other organic phosphorus deficiency, have all been enticing; but the 
vitamine explanation is now generally accepted. 

Much of the experimental study has been carried out with pigeons, 
because in them the beriberi-producing foods very quickly bring on a 
well-defined condition of polyneuritis, which is probably the same as 
beriberi in man, and the cure of which may be used as a test of the 

» Funk, Jour. Slate Med., 20 (1912), pp. 341-368. 



1916] VTTAMINES, OR LIFE -PRESERVERS 643 

efficiency of any given food or treatment. In them cures with the anti- 
beriberi, or anti-neuritic, vitamine were first effected. 

And the cures are fairly marvelous. As the disease develops, the 
birds become lame and inactive, lose weight rapidly, and are drawn 
out of shape, especially with the neck muscles so contracted that the 
head is laid over on the back. After reaching that condition, if left to 
themselves, they would usually die in twenty-four hours or less; but, 
if 2 to 4 milligrams of the vitamine preparation are injected intravenously, 
they revive and appear to be cured in less than three hours. If they 
are then fed on the normal corn diet, they show no return of the disease.' 

Marvelous as the power of the anti-beriberi vitamine is, however, 
it seems to be but one of a class of agents upon which healthy life is 
dependent. As the work of Koch and Pasteur revealed to the world 
a group of living organisms infinitesimal, but nevertheless dominant 
as health preservers or destroyers, so also an inorganized group of in- 
finitesimal health-preservers is being revealed in the train of the dis- 
covery of the anti-beriberi vitamine. An understanding of this vitam- 
ine group will surely be a help to the physicians and dieritians in the 
fight against disease. 

Scurvy', for instance, has long been known to be associated with the 
use of a restricted diet lacking in fresh vegetables and meats. It fre- 
quently develops on shipboard when only bread foods and canned goods 
are used, also in times approaching famine. Fresh vegetables and 
fruits and their juices, and especially Hme and lemon juices have been 
recognized as remedies which bring about a rapid recovery. It is 
now beUeved that the recovery is due to an anti-scorbutic vitamine, or 
to several anti-scorburic vitamines, in the lemon juice and fresh vege- 
tables. Epidemic dropsy, infantile scurvy, human multiple neuritis 
and peripheral neuritis, Basedow's disease, ship-beriberi, rickets, and 
pellagra have all been attributed to similar causes. All of these are 
thought to be due to deficiencies in the diet. The exact nature of the 
deficiencies has not been determined, but it may be that against each 
there is a specific vitamine. 

Moreover, beside all these forms of minute extras in foods something 
else is there which makes young animals grow. Hopkins,' Osborne and 
Mendel,^ McCollum and Davis,* and others have shown that artificial 

» Funk, Jour. Physiol., 48 (1914), p. 228. 

» Hopkins, Jour. Physiol, 44 (1912), p. 425. 

< Osborne and Mendel, Jour. Biol. Chem., 15 (1913), pp. 311-326. 

« McCoUum and Davis, Ibid., 15 (1913), pp. 167-175. 



644 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

mixtures of pure chemical compounds, however well selected and com- 
bined, do not support the growth of young rats, mice, and guinea pigs, 
for an indefinite time; but the addition of a small percentage of some 
natural food, such as egg-yolk, milk, or butter, or of yeast, is sufficient 
to restore and continue the growth. Evidently the growing animal 
requires something besides the food constituents usually considered, and 
the natural fresh foods supply that growth-stimulating accessory. 

There is doubt at present as to whether this growth-promoting sub- 
stance is to be classed as a vitamine. Funk's' attempt to prove that 
it is identical with the anti-beriberi vitamine of unpolished rice is not 
successful. This phase of the question is being actively studied. If 
the substances were present in larger amount and could be isolated 
individually, of course the identity or othenA^ise could be detennined 
chemically; but as it is they must be judged purely from the physio- 
logical effects of preparations made under various conditions. 

Most of the physiological experiments which have proved the exist- 
ence of a distinctive growth-promoting substance have been either 
such as made use of a ration from which fat and the fat-like lipoids were 
excluded, or experiments in which the material added to reestablish 
growth was one which contained fat as a somewhat prominent feature. 
In fact, with some species butter seems to be one of the best agents 
to use. It has therefore come about that the failure to grow has been 
attributed to the lack of lipoids; but unless Funk's analysis is mislead- 
ing, if the growth substance is a lipoid, it is not vitamine. The theory 
of the lipoid nature may be incorrect. It has lost some of its support 
by the observation that none of the common hpoids introduced in a 
pure condition into the ration remove the deficiency.^ It is quite pos- 
sible that vitamine exists in combination in fat, or, because of its solu- 
bility, is taken out from the food by the processes used in taking out 
the fat. In that case, the injury supposed to be done by lack of lipoid 
may in reality be due to lack of the vitamine associated with the lipoid. 
Osborne and Mendel* feel that they have disproved that supposition 
with regard to butter. Butter, which is in the main a mixture of fats, 
does unquestionably possess a growth-producing power, and Osborne 
and Mendel find that power emphasized in the "butter oil" remaining 
after processes such as would tend to free it from the heavier fats and 
from substances other than fats. They say that the "butter oil" 

• Funk and Macallum, Ibid., 23 (1915), pp. 413-419. 
' MacArthur and Luckctt, Ibid., 20 (1915), pp. 161-174. 
» Osborne and Mendel, Ibid., 16 (1913), pp. 421-137. 



1916) VTTAMINES, OR LIFE-PRESERVXRS 645 

contains neither nitrogen nor phosphorus, and accordingly claim that 
it cannot include vitamine or a phosphorized lipoid. On the whole 
there is considerable indication of two t>pes of accessory substances 
essential for growth, one of them hpoid in nature and the other not. 

The question of the lip>oid nature or the lipoid association of any of 
these food accessories has a bearing on the interpretation of their func- 
tions within the body. The functions must be judged from their 
location in the body when known, from such properties as can be as- 
certained, and from the symptoms produced by their withdrawal from 
the ration. Some of the animal tissues which have been found to be 
most rich in vitamine are tissues which are rich in lipoid, such as brain, 
heart muscle, and egg-yolk. According to the investigation of Miss 
Evelyn Cooper,' however, vitamine does not enter into the constitution 
of the brain or heart muscle and is not a lipoid. Evidence was obtained 
of a lipoid-hke substance in brain and in egg yolk which has a marked 
affinity for vitamine. Very probably such a substance serves to hold 
the vitamine in store till needed by the organism. 

With regard to the functions of the vitamines but little definite 
evidence has been collected as yet. The difTerent symptoms produced 
indicate that they serve different purposes. The neuritic symptoms of 
beriberi have led to the thought that the anti-neuritic vitamine is es- 
sential for normal nerve activity, and in birds that have died from 
polyneuritis the nerve and brain tissue is found to be degenerated. 
The right side of the heart is very much enlarged in fatal cases of this 
disease, and of scurvy^", and that has been e.xplained as a secondary 
effect of nerve degeneration. None of this evidence indicates the exact 
work of the vitamine. 

The extreme effectiveness of vitamines in proportion to their amount 
suggests a possible relation to the hormones, and other components of 
the internal secretions of such organs as the thyroid, thymus, and supra- 
renals. The view that there may be such a connection has some support 
from the fact that the glands of internal secretion in pigeons suffering 
from beriberi have been found to be greatly diminished in size and to 
show marks of structural degeneration." 

In still another direction are a few experiments which indicate that 
the carbohydrate metabolism is affected by the amount of vitamine 
supplied; a lack of vitamine in the diet resulting in an excessive con- 

' Cooper. Biochem. Jour., 8 (1914), pp. 347-354. 
" Darling, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 63 (1914), pp. 1290-1294. 
" Funk and Douglas, Jour. Physiol, 47 (1914), pp. 47S-47S. 



646 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

version of the glycogen of the liver into sugar, and the addition of vitam- 
ine from yeast to such a diet being accompanied by a formation of 
glycogen in the liver and by less blood sugar. After a fat-free v itamine- 
free diet, the glycogen content of the liver was increased. '^ 

A curious observation with regard to the efifect of carbohydrate in- 
gestion upon the vitamine requirement has yet to be interpreted. 
Several observers have noticed that with the diet of poUshed rice 
(lacking vitamine and rich in carbohydrate) pigeons succumb more 
quickly when large amounts are eaten. The same is true, to a less 
extent, with a vitamine-poor diet rich in protein or fat. It might be 
expected, naturally, that the opposite would be true, because with the 
very small amount of vitamine present in the rice it might be sup- 
posed that by eating a larger amount it would be possible to obtain a 
better protection. The unexpected reversal holds also in human beri- 
beri. In nearly all epidemics reported it is observed that individuals 
who are well nourished so far as quantity of food is concerned are more 
liable to the disease than are the underfed. Bradden and Cooper" 
carried out controlled experiments with a view to determining whether 
the requirement for anti-neuritic vitamine is actually increased by an 
increase of carbohydrate ingestion. They conclude that it is and that 
for the maintenance of health ''the intake of active substance must be 
adjusted, so as to stand in some quantitative relation to the ration of 
carbohydrate ingested, and it is when this necessary balance is not 
maintained in the dietary that beriberi results. " The precise relation 
which must exist between the supply of active material and the amount 
of carbohydrate metabolized has not been ascertained, nor has it been 
determined for the protein and fat. 

If such a relation holds as Braddon and Cooper think they have proved, 
it comphcates somewhat the problem of the physician or dietitian who 
is fighting a deficiency disease by regulation of the diet. That is, he 
must the more insist on the use of a mixed diet with a liberal supply 
of the vitamine-containing foods, and he must at the same time urge 
the avoidance of a high excess of carbohydrate-rich foods. It is not 
probable that the relation between the amount of carbohydrate and the 
amount of vitamine needs to be adjusted in any very exact way, as 
their words might lead one to think; but a satisfactory balance is doubt- 
less easily attained if attention be given to the two points mentioned, 

" Funk and Schdmbom, Ibid., 48 (1914), pp. 328-331. 

» Brmddon and Cooper, Jour. IIy[., 14 (1914), pp. 331-353. 



1916] VITAMINES, OR LEFE-PRESERVERS M7 

In selecting foods for their vitamines it is necessary to have in mind 
some of the processes which may lower the vitamine content. The 
removal from rice by the polishing process has been mentipned. It is 
found true also of wheat, com, and other cereals that the larger part of 
the vitamine is contained in the bran portions. The coarser, unhulled 
cereal preparations, therefore, have more protective power than the 
tine bolted flours. Evidence of the injurious effect of a diet consist- 
ing largely of highly milled white flour is reported from Newfoundland 
and Labrador." In mid- winter and spring, and in summer while they 
are on their fishing vessels the people are reduced to white bread and 
tea. At such times what seems to be true beriberi develops. Dr. Little 
testifies as to the cure:— "A patient with beriberi, whose symptoms have 
not gone so far as to be immediately dangerous, if put on a diet includ- 
ing fresh meat, whole wheat bread, beans, peas, macaroni, and potatoes, 
will, within ten days, recover from all functional symptoms." The 
same trouble attacks their hens. As the natives say, the hens fed ex- 
clusively on white bread and water "get leery and give up." 

Another process which reduces the activity of food is drying. Fresh 
beans, peas, and other legumes are relatively rich in vitamines but the 
dried ones less so. Some foods lose their curative power simply by 
being kept, and canned goods usually have httle. The anti-scorbutic 
vitamine is said to be much more stable tlian the anti-neuritic. The 
anti-scorbutic vitamine is fairly stable in acid media, which may be 
a reason why lemon juice has been found so effective a cure for scurvy. 
The anti-neuritic vitamine is soluble in water, and if unhusked or 
parboiled rice is soaked in an excess of water for some hours and the 
water thrown out, the rice loses some of its protective power. Prob- 
ably the same would be true of other soaked foods. Solutions of the 
anti-neuritic substance lose their activity on being boiled a few minutes, 
especially if alkaline. Milk on being heated to 100° C. for some time 
loses its anti-scorbutic property, and, if forming the exclusive diet of 
children, may give rise to the appearance of infantile scurvy. The 
heating of milk has also been thought to be a cause of rickets in children. 

Voegtlin gives the following table'^ of foods arranged with reference 
to their anti-neuritic and anti-scorbutic powers, in each case those 
richest in vitamine being placed first: 

"Little, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 58 (1912), pp. 2029-2030; 63 (1914), pp. 1287-1290; 
Ohler, Jour. Med. Res., 31 [N. S. 26] (1914), pp. 239-246. 
^Scientific Monthly, 2 (1916), p. 292. 



648 



THE JOURNAL OP HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



AKTWE011ITIC PROPEETHS 


ANTI-SCORBUTIC PROPERTIXS 


Relatively rich 


Relatively poor 


Relatively rich 


Relatively poor 


Brewer's yeast 


Sterilized milk 


Fresh vegetables 


Dried vegetables 


Egg yolk 


Sterilized meat 


Fresh fruits 


Dried fruits 


Ox heart 


Cabbage 


Raw milk 


Sterilized milk 


Milk 


Turnips 


Raw meat 


Canned meat 


Beef and other fresh 


Carrots and other 




Dried cereab 


meat 


vegetables of this 




Pork fat 


Fish 


type 






Beans 


Highly milled cereals 






Peas 


Starch 






Oats 


Pork 






Barley 








Wheat 








Com 









As a practical rule resulting from the whole investigation of vitamines 
and their occurrence, so far as it has gone, it may be well to bear in 
mind the suggestions which Vedder made for the prophylaxis of beri- 
beri. He recommends that: (1) If bread is the main article of diet, it 
should be made of flour containing the bran; if rice, it should be the un- 
poHshed. (2) Beans, peas, and other legumes should be eaten at least 
once a week. Canned legumes are to be avoided. (3) Fresh vegetables 
or fruit should be used at least once, better twice, a week. (4) Cereals 
(unhulled) should be included in all soups. (5) When corn is the 
principal article of diet, the yellow meal, that is, that made from the 
whole grain, should be used. (6) Potatoes and fresh meat should be 
used at least once a week, preferably daily. (7) The use of preserved 
foods is to be avoided. 

These recommendations are made for subjects who have been on 
such a diet as to have reduced the supply of vitamine in the body to the 
dangerous point. It is evident that most classes in America do not 
need to give especial attention to the matter for themselves; but some 
groups are undoubtedly near the margin of safety, and the spread of 
pellagra among us, especially in the Southern States, is evidence of the 
need of preventive measures in some quarters. To the educated 
pubhc in general doubtless the chief interest in the whole matter is to 
be found in the development of a new and vital field of investigation. 
It is to be expected that out of the investigations there will come many 
revelations with regard to normal physiological processes. To a stu- 
dent the literature of the subject is fascinating. 



1916] HOW THE SOLDIERS OP EUROPE ARE FED 649 

HOW THE SOLDIERS OF EUROPE ARE FED' 

MRS. MELVIL DE\\T:Y 

The enormous task of feeding armies has been most carefully worked 
out in every detail. Some one has said: "The army travels upon its 
stomach." Soldier's rations must not only be adequate in amounts 
but must be carefully balanced, for the quality of the fight depends 
largely on the quality and quantity of the food. Supp'y trains carry 
traveling kitchens, field bakeries, and fireless cookers which are built 
into the carts. They are loaded up in the morning, at noon they halt 
and a supply of hot cofifee, soup, or stew is ready to supplement the 
bread which the men carry in their haversacks. Fresh bread is given 
occasionally to relieve the monotony of hard tack. So large a working 
force and so many guards are required that this total service of the 
rear, as it is called, uses over 20 per cent of the men called into service. 
Old men are largely chosen for these duties so that the pick of the fight- 
ing strength stays with the fighting line. Every effort is made to 
supplement the diet by fresh meat and vegetables levied or bought in 
the immediate vicinity of the troops. This living off the country is 
carried much farther in Europe than in British and American practice. 
In home territory or friendly country, supplies are paid for at once; in 
hostile d'stricts they are taken without payment. ^ 

It is claimed that the Turks were the first to make a fixed allowance 
per capita in feeding their army. France boasts that her soldiers are 
the best fed of all; but the Russian is undoubtedly the most Hberally 
fed of any of the armies of the world. Germany first worked out a 
scientifically balanced ration and has long held that she was supreme in 
this field, but England says: 

[The Germans learned] that in the art of provisioning an army they could 
teach nothing to the British, and that the completeness and efficiency of the 
German commissariat system was far excelled by that which . . . 
kept our men at the highest pitch of efiiciency. (See London Times His- 
tory of the War, Part 47, vol. 4, July 13, 1915.) 

' Presented at the meeting of the Institution Economics Section of the American Home 
Economics Association, Laice Placid, 1915. 

* Rules of land warfare. "Requisitions in k;nd shall not be demandsd — except for the 
needs of the the army of occupation. — They shall be paid for as far as possible in cash; 
if not, a receipt shall be given and the payment of the amount due shall be made a« 
toon aa possible." 



650 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



The staple items of the ration must stand heat and storage without 
serious loss in nutriment and flavor. In all nations these consist of 
about the same articles — fresh or salt meat, hard or fresh bread , rice and 
peas with small portions of sugar, salt, and coffee, vary'ng in proportions 
according to national differences in custom which always play a power- 
ful part in dietetic matters. A comparative table of rations is added, 
which has been compiled from material furnished by the War College 
in Washington, which is a translation from the Revue du Service de 
L'Intendance Militaire, vol. 26, 1913. Doubtless many changes have 
been made during the progress of this war but this list is considered 
authoratative up to 1914. Figures in brackets are not included in 
footings. No calories are given for British, Belgian, and Turkish 
rations, and no footings of grams for Austrian and United States. 

TABLE 1 
Army field rations compared, grams 



Bread 

Butter 

or fat 

Meat 

Bacon 

Cheese 

Vegetables, fresh 

Vegetables, dry. 

Tomatoes 

Coffee 

Coffee conserve . 

Tea 

Sugar 

Jam 

Prunes 

Salt 

Crushed wheat. . 

Oatmeal 

Paste 

Rice 

Wine 

Total grams. 
Total calories 



567 



567 

113 

85 
(226) 
or 

57 



18 

85 

113 

14 



1587 



750 



450 



45 



30 



1275 



750 

400 
30 

60 
16 

21 



1277 
2943 



§ 



750 

200 
15 

50 
10 

15 



(200) 
or 
180 

(250cc.) 

3394 



1025 



410 



13 



136 



1601 

3702 



750 



375 



17 



17 



1319 
3393 



700 

20 
400 



250 



50 



(200cc.) 



3278 



900 
10 

250 



100 



150 



1310 



31C/3 



454 



(396) 

or 

340 



113 

283 

32 



68 

36 
4.5 



4615 



1916] 



HOW THE SOLDIERS OF EITROPE ARE FED 



Ml 



British and United States rations are estimated in pounds and ounces 
but for convenient (.omparison these have been translated into grams, 
1 ounce being equal to 28.35 grams. 

TABLE 2 
Table showing components and quantities of various rations U. S. Army 



A. CAUUSON EATION 



Articles 



Beef, fresh 

Bacon, issue 

Flour, issue 

Hard bread 

Bread 

Baking powder 

Beans 

Rice 

Potatoes, fresh 

Onions, fresh 

Tomatoes 

Prunes 

Jam 

Apples, evap 

Peaches, evap 

Coffee, R. & G 

Sugar 

Milk, evap 

Vinegar 

Pickles 

Salt 

Pepper, black 

Cinnamon 

Lard 

Lard substitute 

Butter 

Oleomargarine 

Syrup 

Flay. e.Ttract, lemon. . 

Protein, grams 

Fat, grams 

Carbohydrates, grams 

Heat, calories 



QuoDtitiet 



14 
3.6 
18 



.08 

1.2 
.8 
14 

4 

2 
.384 
.64 
.128 
.128 

1.12 

3.2 
.5 

gill 

.08 
.08 

ounces 

.64 
.04 
.014 
.32 
.32 
.25 
.25 
tiu 
.32 

ounces 

.014 



146.8 
173.5 
65a. 9 



rrELD RATION 



No. I 
quantitiet 



12 
16 



10 

1.28 



1.12 
2.4 



16 



110.9 
236.8 
510.0 



No. 2 
quaotities 



ouncm 
14 



16 
4 

14 

5 
1.28 



1.12 
2.4 



.16 
.02 



146.9 
143.4 
479.7 



No. 3 
quantitiet 



ouncu 

14 



16 
4 

14 

2 

2 
.384 
.64 
.128 
.128 

1.12 

3.2 

r<tf 
.08 
.08 

funcei 

.04 

.64 



146.6 
161.5 
506.9 



txsrRVK 

RATION 



Quantitiet 



ounc4s 

12 
16 



1.12 
2.4 



.16 



81.3 
2^.2 
404.9 



4761.0 



4615.0 



3707.0 



4068.0 



4052.0 



6S3 THE jofURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

LIST OF REFERENCES ON RATIONS 

Rations of some foreign armies: Belgian, German, French. Austrian, and Russian. 191.? 
Journal of the Military Service Institution, July-August, 1916, page 104. 

Flour moths and army rations. Newly discovered enemies of the human race. W ith 
cuts. Scientific American Supplement, November 20, 1915, page 2>J>i. 

RATIONS — AUSTRIA 

Field rations of Russia and Austria. V Illustration, August 22, 1915, page 157. 

RATIONS — FR/\NCE 

Ration tables for officers and men in peace and war. Pay and allowances for com- 
mutation. Ageiula Militdirc-Berger-LevraiUt, Paris, 1915-1916, Periode de Guerre, pages 
223-229. 

The French Army ration. Gives components, additions and substitutive equivalents. 
Appendix No. 2, pages 129 and 135. Report of the Medico-Military Aspects of the European 
War, by Surgeon A. Fauntleroy, 1915. 

Field rations of the French and German armies. L' Illustration, Aug. 15, 1915, p. 137 . 

RATIONS — FRANCE — EtJROPE.AN WAR 

Discussion of rations for the troops in the field. La France Militaire. June 9, 1916. 

FIELD ENV. CASE — RATIONS — FRANCE — EUROPEAN WAR 

Order of February 4, 1916, prescribing modifications of field ration regulations for time 
of war, with complements and substitutions. Bulletin Official . . . . E. C., Partie 
Permanente, February 28, 1916, pages 81-86, no. 9. 

RATIONS — GERMANY 

The constituent parts of German army rations. The Sphere, Sept. 26. 1914. page 312. 
Components of (German .\rmy) in war and maneuvers. Taschenbuch, 1915, page 152. 

RATIONS — GREAT BRITAIN 

List of field rations published in Army Orders, 1915, June 1, page 10. 

RATIONS — GREAT BRITAIN — EUROPEAN WAR 

List of daily rations to each man. E.xtra ration for men in trenches. Australian Mili- 
tary J ournal, July, 1915, page 536. 

ComfKinents of rations and subsistence mcUiods. Behind the Scents at the Front, by G. 
Adam, London, 1915, page 92. 

RATIONS — RUSSIA 

Field rations of Austrian and Russian army. L' Illustration, Aug. 22, 1915. paRC 157. 

Rations (for privates) Chapter 12, page 4. (In Russian) Pekhola. Uchcbnik dlia untcr 
ofitsers. 

Information in relation to rations in the Russian army — method of using them — how 
obtained. Rivista Mililare Ilaliana, April 16, 1915, pages 727-739. 



1916] FREDRICK ACCUM ON POOD CHEMISTRY 653 

FREDRICK ACCUM AND HIS WRITINGS ON FOOD 
CHEMISTRY 

ANNA H. WmXTELSEY 
Office of Home Economics, U. S. Dept. of Agr. 

Fredrick Accum was born in Buckeburg, Westphalia, in 1769.^ 
Nothing is known of his early life, except that he was by profession a 
chemist. In 1793 he went to England where he soon made a name for 
himself as a teacher, lecturer, and consulting chemist. He became pro- 
fessor of chemistry in the Surrey Institution in 1809, where he lectured 
upon "Operative and Philosophical Chemistry," upon "Mineralogy," 
and upon the chemistry of arts and manufactures. He did much by his 
work and writings to promote the lighting of cities by gas. In 1822 he 
returned to Berlin where he remained as professor in a technical insti- 
tution until his death in 1838. 

He was the author of a number of scientific works, among others, A 
System of Theoretical and Practical Chemistry, a crystallography, sev- 
eral books on mineralogy, treatises on gas lighting, and two books of 
especial interest from the point of view of Home Economics, namely, 
Culinary Chemistry, published in 1821, and the Adulterations of Food, 
which antedates it by one year. These two volumes are of much value 
to students of Home Economics who wish to trace the development of 
the subject as a distinct branch of learning. 

Accum in the first pages of his Culinary Chemistry states two truths 
of which the importance is not fully realized even today after a lapse of 
nearly 100 years — namely, that a kitchen is a chemical laboratory and 
that cookery is one of the least cultivated branches of chemistry. The 
amount of chemistry set forth in this book, however, is slight compared 
with thai in "Adulterations of Food," and is chiefly interesting as showing 
a few of the quaint theories that were current at that time, especially 
in regard to the operations of cooking. 

The effects of cooking meat by direct application of heat, for example, 
are said to be due to the development of gelatin and "osmazome" (ex- 
tractive matter of meat) from the smaller vessels and a combination 
with these of a portion of the fat liquefied by heat. 

The agreeable taste of roasted meat is due to "empyreuma, combined 
with a minute quantity of ammonia, which is soon developed on the sur- 

' European Magazine, 77 (1820), pp. 483-486. 



654 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

face of the fat, by the partial charring— not of the fat itself, but of the 
cellular membrane in which it is enveloped." 

In the light of modern knowledge Accum's ideas in reg.ird to the 
agency of oxygen in the putrefaction of canned goods are interesting. 
"The tin canisters being closed during the exposure to heat, must ne es- 
sarily contain with the included matter some portion of air." The ef- 
fect of the heating is to produce a combination of the oxygen of the air 
with the included matter. If the combination is incomplete, putre- 
faction takes place. He proves these statements by reference to the 
well-known fact that a can which has been opened and closed again 
(thus letting in air) w^ithout application of heat soon putrefies; but after 
heat is again applied after closing the can the enclosed materials can be 
preserved as at first! A theory on this matter formulated by Gay- 
Lussac is quoted at length (page 217) but is called "rather hypothetical 
and unsatisfactory." 

"Adulterations of Food" is of interest, both because it shows the condi- 
tions in England at this time in regard to the adulteration of food, and 
because it reveals the condition of the science of chemistry early in the 
nineteenth century. It is evident that the adulteration of food was 
gross and extensive and that its existence was quite unknown to the 
majority of people. 

The adulteration of many food materials is discussed, including 
bread, alcoholic liquors, tea and coffee, cheese, spices, vinegar, cream, 
confectionery, catsup, and custards. There are chapters, also, upon 
water, including discussions of the characteristics of pure water and tests 
for impurities, and chapters upon the dangers of using copper and 
leaden utensils in the preparation of foods. 

It is interesting to know that at this early date such practices were 
common as the sophistication of pepper by adding artificial pepper 
corns made from oil cakes, clay, and cayenne pepper; the adulteration 
of ground pepper by mixing it with pepper dust— that is, the sweepings 
from pci)per warehouses, known as "P. D." and even the sweepings of 
the sweepings known as "D. P. D.," dirt of pepper dust; increasing the 
acidity of vinegar by the addition of .sulphuric acid; the adulteration of 
confectionery by the sul)stitution of clay for sugar and the use of color- 
ing matters containing lead and copper. 

Tests are given in most cases whereby the adulteration may be de- 
tected, provided such tests are known. Most tests arc for inorganic 
substances, and such tests as those for the adulteration of foods witii 



1916] FREDRICK ACCUM ON FOOD CHEMISTRY 655 

deleterious vegetable substances were, as Accum says of such adultera- 
tion in the case of beer, "beyond the reach of chemical analysis." 
Ground coffee was adulterated with scorched peas and beans. As no 
method of detection was then known, advice was given not to buy 
ground coffee. All microscopic tests are lacking. 

The tests are practically the same as those in use at present and in- 
clude tests for magnesia, lime, sulphates, chlorides, carbonates, lead, 
copper, iron, calomel, alum, and tartaric acid. The hardness of water 
is tested by soap solution. Rice or arrowroot powder is detected by iodin, 
turmeric by its change of color with alkali, and dissolved oxygen in water 
is determined by the oxidation of ferrous sulphate or "nitrous gas." 

A few quantitative tests are mentioned. For instance, the determi- 
nation of the freedom of calcined magnesia from carbonates by weigh- 
ing the material before and after treatment with dilute sulphuric acid. 

The chapter on water analysis includes some quantitative tests to be 
applied in the analysis of the ash. Carbonates are determined by the 
difference in weight of the precipitate given by barium chlorid before 
and after treatment with nitric acid; chlorids by precipitation as silver 
chlorid and weighing; calcium as calcium sulphate; magnesium as mag- 
nesium phosphate; sodium as sodium chlorid; and iron by precipitation 
with ammonium benzoate and weighing as "protoxid." 

The remarks upon the characteristics of good water for drinking and 
other purposes are interesting. Stress is laid upon the mineral con- 
stituents as affecting the softness of the water, which, according to 
Accum, is the most important quahty of good water. Indeed most of 
the discussion on water hinges on the relative hardness or softness of 
waters from various sources. About 20 pages are devoted to the dis- 
cussion of the dangers from lead in drinking water due to storage in 
leaden reservoirs, and the use of lead-lined pumps. The dangers from 
contamination of water with animal matter are dismissed with a few 
words. In regard to the amount of impurities that exist in the Thames, 
at London, after ha\ing received the contents of the sewers, drains, 
and water courses of a large town, it appears, "from the most accurate 
experiments that have been made, that those kinds of impurities have 
no perceptible influence on the salubrious quality of a mass of water 
so*immense, and constantly kept in motion by the action of the tides." 
Accum does suggest, however, that the putrefaction of Thames water 
when used as sea store is due, in part at least, to the presence of this 
"prodigious accumulation of animal matters." 



656 THE JOTJRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

EVA M. BENEFIEL» 

An Appreciation 
mamie bunch 

University of Illinois 

In the passing of Miss Eva Benefiel, late County Adviser in Home 
Improvement for Kankakee County, Illinois, and probably the first 
woman to hold such a position in a northern state, the Home Economics 
movement has lost an able worker. Miss Benefiel was unusually well 
adapted for her work. She had lived on a farm and had experienced 
the labor conditions, isolation, and the inconvenient surroundings com- 
mon to so many farm homes. She had taught in the rural schools and 
realized the magnitude of the school i)roblems in sanitation, in nutri- 
tion, and in neighborhood cooperation. She had had four years' tech- 
nical training in the Home Economics Department of the University 
of Illinois, followed by six years' teaching of Home Economics in high 
schools. She had demonstrated and lectured before women's clubs, 
teachers' institutes, and other organizations. 

She was athletic, musical, seemingly in perfect health and carried 
always an impression of sunny optimism and abundant vitality. She 
entered heartily into any worthy community effort and was a natural 
leader. Little annoyances received scant recognition from her. She 
was too busy with the big, positive features of community development 
to pay attention to the discouraging talk of pessimists. But she suc- 
ceeded in getting pessimists to listen to her assurance of possible achieve- 
ments; in fact, she got them to do for themselves things they thought 
could not be done. She made Home Improvement a common cause in 
which all cliques and factions could unite. People who had lived in 
the same neighborhood for years without knowing each other save as 
members of different churches, different lodges, or different political 
parties were brought together in the common effort to improve home 
life in Kankakee County. 

Miss Benefiel had a keen sense of values. She found something very 
good in every community to build on, and directed the effort in that 
region accordingly. Neighborhoods were not set at strife with each 
other in competition, but rather each community was led to contribute 
its share toward a collaboration which should show a wide range in 

' Mi?* Bcne6e4 was drowneH wh'Ie bathin;; in thr Kankak<^ R\\t.T. Jdy M, 1916. 



1916] EVA M. BENEFIZL 657 

home improvement and in community ideals. In one year she had 
shown to the women and girls of Kankakee County a great variety of 
ways of making farm and town life absorbingly interesting and worth 
while. Under her guidance the girls found commonplace tasks develop 
into interesting, individual problems, and the women wakened to a 
keener responsibility regarding neighborhood conditions. 

That her vision was shared by the progressive women of the Kankakee 
County Home Improvement Association is shown by the fact that they 
will continue the work Miss Benefiel had so well begun. They have 
selected as her successor Miss Jessie Fay Edmundson, a young woman 
whose preparation for the work has been very similar to Miss Benefiel's. 

Miss Benefiel recognized the necessity for systematic and supervised 
recreation for young people, and her last service to her girls was in 
directing the camp life of one of the clubs. Her sudden death recalls 
vividly a warning sounded by Miss Alice Ravenhill at the Seattle 
meeting of the American Home Ecnomics Association. Miss Raven- 
hill emphasized the lack of economy shown by enthusiastic Home 
Economics workers in spending their vital energy too freely. She 
pointed out how frequently it has happened that a woman, whose 
preparation, experience, and accomplishment had placed her where we 
might look to iier for leadership, had died suddenly; her life snuffed 
out by some unusual shock from which the system was too fatigued to 
rally, because the ambitious woman had spent all her energy — forgetting 
the necessity for a reserve. 

Miss Benefiel was so thoroughly interested in her project that even 
on her vacation, those who met her at Ithaca or in Washington will 
remember, her sole thought was to collect material and ideas for her 
work. It is much to be regretted that with her enthusiasm she had no 
idea of the cost of fatigue. Her work will go on, her influence remains, 
though we cannot but wish she might have continued here the project 
she had so well begun. 



658 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS p^eCCmbcr 

THE QUESTION BOX 

To the Journal of Home Economics : 

"Can you tell me where I can find material or where I can visit an 
institution that has worked out scientifically the organization of a 
girls' dormitory along modern lines of hygiene and efliciency? I want 
to inform myself on the number of employees required, hours, division 
of duties, privileges, and other questions of organization, and also as to 
kitchen and dining room equipment. The School is to be in the Middle 
West and the scale of living is that which parents expect when they pay 
$500 or $600." 

This question has been answered tentatively by letter. Can some 
one of our readers give the information needed or refer us to schools 
where these problems have been worked out? 

A request has come for literature on this subject: 
''Resolved that the average woman on the farm does not receive her 
due proportion of the family income for home conveniences. " 
Can any one furnish references? 

Question: A physician has granted the use of lemons to a patient but 
refused her oranges, apparently on the ground of the difference in the 
kinds of acid present. Is there any justification for this? 

Answer: The preclusion of oranges from the diet of a patient who 
has been granted the use of lemons, on the ground of the difference in 
the kind of acid present, is not justified, since lemons contain from 6 
to 9 per cent of citric acid, while oranges contain from 1 to 2.5 per 
cent of citric acid. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

CHILDREN'S CHRISTMAS GIVING 

ERNESTINE P. SWALLOW 

Every opportunity to train children so that in later years they shall 
be generous, happy, and wise givers should be used, and Christmas 
offers a special chance to give this training in a natural and simple 
way. 

The joy that belongs to those who give and those who receive; the 
sacrifice that is a part of true giving; the though tfulness that considers 
the needs and tastes of the recipient; the self control that limits gifts to 
one's legitimate resources; the sense of social responsibility that forbids 
harming any one, even remotely, through giving: these may be learned 
unconsciously at Christmas time far more effectively than they could 
be taught by precept. 

Part of the delight of giving is in choosing the gift. The parents who 
buy things themselves and merely hand them over to the children to 
give, or who put the children's names, as the givers, on gifts they have 
had no part in selecting, deprive those children of their rights and of an 
understanding of the real happiness that lies in doing for others. 

Underlying true giving there must always be the spirit of love and 
sacrifice. The gift that costs us nothing is of small value in the giving. 
Therefore the children should earn the money, or at least a certain 
portion of it, with which to buy their gifts for Christmas, or save it 
at some sacrifice of their own pleasure. They should also put thought 
and work into their giving. As many gifts as possible should be of their 
own making, and, when this cannot be, they should at least be of their 
own choosing, and there should be some personal touch, if only a mes- 
sage written by their own hand, for "the gift without the giver is bare." 

Children should learn to be thoughtful givers, deciding wisely to 
whom to give and what to give. With the mother's help they should 
make a list of those to whom they are to send Christmas remembrances. 
No name should appear there, where a gift would mean to the children 
only the payment of a debt. To give to anyone just because one has 

659 



660 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

given to us is an unworthy motive and makes the gift, as a gift, value- 
less. Find out those to whom the children would like to give as an 
expression of their love and friendship, and help them add to this list 
some to whom tliey can give because the gifts are needed or because 
they will bring happiness. Help them decide with care and thought 
and needed advice what their gifts shall be. See that as far as pos- 
sible the gifts are something that will give pleasure in themselves. 
Teach them that to select gifts that come within their means is only 
common honesty and that part of the value of the gift lies in the 
thought it carries. 

Begin early with the Christmas gifts, not only because it makes 
possible a wiser selection of gifts and a real enjoyment of the buying 
and making, but because buying early relieves the sales people in the 
stores of the fearful strain so general at Christmas time; and teach 
the children that this consideration is part of the Christmas spirit. 
The rush and haste of leaving things till the last minute lessens one's 
own pleasure, and may cause needless unhappiness to others. 

Most of all, be sure the children know the real reason for Christmas 
giving, "God's best gift to us," the little Child who was born on Christ- 
mas day. 



THE HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR* 

MINNA C. DENTON 

It has been wisely said that ordinary milk which has been kept for 
twenty-four hours at a temperature above 50°F., should not be fed to 
a baby without being .scalded, — even if it has not yet soured. Similarly, 
other perishable foods, such as meats, eggs, and cream, which have to 
be kept for some days or even hours in the home, ought to be stored 
at a temperature below 50°F. if possible. Yet the average cellar, even 
in northern states, does not as a rule maintain a temperature lower than 
60° to 65°. 

If the reader will test the temperature of her own refrigerator with 
a thermometer she will doubtless discover that it ranges between 50° 

' Copyrighted. 



1916] THE HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR 661 

and 60°, or occasionally a little higher or lower, according to the loca- 
tion of the thermometer in the refrigerator, the degree of excellence of 
the refrigerator, and the room temperature (weather) on the day when 
the test was made. Moreover, it is safe to say that through the summer, 
in many if not in most localities in the United States, a box which will 
constantly maintain as low a temperature as this, will require 150 
pounds or more of ice a week— or else there is something unusual in the 
circumstances or in the treatment it receives. Yet according to Dr. 
John R. Williams, Secretary Milk Commission, Rochester, N. Y.,- the 
efficient refrigerator or ice-box should have a temperature not in excess 
of 50°F., preferably below 45°;' and it should use about one-third to 
one-fifth the amount of ice now consumed by the average box. 

The trouble is, that the housewife who buys the refrigerator judges 
it according to finish and general appearance, whereas the detail upon 
which its efficiency depends is the amount and kind of insulation fur- 
nished between inner and outer walls. This insulation may be saw- 
dust, charcoal, mineral wool, felt, vegetable fiber, cork filings, or cork 
board; in a cheap box it may be nothing but a layer or two of paper. 
Whatever it is, it is probably packed densely into the air space which 
is inside the wall, so as to prevent circulation or currents of air; for a 
dead-air space is the poorest conductor, or the best non-conductor of 
heat which has yet been devised for such a purpose as this. In order 
to be truly "dead," however, the air space must be minutely subdivided 
into small compartments which are kept more or less separate from each 
other. 

This insulating material should also be non-absorbent of moisture, 
particularly if the box has a painted or galvanized metal lining, which 
will, of course, in time rust sufi&ciently in corners and crevices to allow 
some of the moist air or even water to gain access to the insulating 
material. Not only does this absorbed moisture lower the efficiency 
of the insulating material, but it will also in time warp and rot the wood 
casing, and cause the doors to become ill-fitting; this allows direct 
leakage of warm air into the box. 

It will be observed that all of the cheaper insulating materials men- 
tioned above do absorb moisture very readily. The superority of sev- 

* A Study of Refrigeration in the Home, and the Effiaency of Household Refrigerators. 
Read at the Third International Congress of Refrigeration, September, 1913. 

' Circular 65 Bureau of Standards mentions 45' to 50° F. as suitable temperatures for 
the household refrigerator. State laws and city ordinances concerning transportation of 
milk supplies frequently specify 50" or below during summer weather. 



662 TUE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

eral inches' thickness of good cork board over some of the other mate- 
rials so commonly used, is apparent; and though it will add several 
dollars to the cost of the refrigerator, that money will be retarned to 
the consumer during the first six months of its use, in the form of saving 
on ice bills. At least, so figures Dr. Williams. 

More important still, this added insulation secures the lower tempera- 
ture needed to make perishable foods safe. At least three inches of such 
insulation (exclusive of thickness of wooden case and metal or tile 
hning) should be supplied, and the retailer who sells the box should 
exhibit a small sample section of the wall showing the amount and 
character of this insulation. 

Lining of the Refrigerator. The lining of the food chambers should 
be white, so that it may show at once the presence of dirt or of mate- 
rials which have been spilled on it. Seamless vitreous or porcelain 
enamel, such as is used on bathtubs or lavatories, makes a protection 
for the metal lining which is far superior to the coat of white enamel 
paint found in the less expensive grades of ice boxes, though it is not 
at all impossible to keep the white painted lining in good condition 
for a few years at least. Glass, tile, and solid porcelain slabs are 
sometimes used to line refrigerators; any necessary seams or joinings 
should be tightly and smoothly cemented together, not joined by 
strips of metal whose edges may easily become soiled, or harbor, 
upon occasion, cockroaches, or even bacilli. 

In general it may be laid down as a safe rule, that if the manufacturer's 
name and address do not appear on the box, he has not produced an 
article of which he is proud nor one of any great value. 

Tight fitting doors (not bevelled) with latches that hold when pressed 
firmly shut, constitute a detail of importance. 

Location of the refrigerator. The refrigerator can not be expected to 
give its best service if located in a warm place; this fact is a serious 
drawback toward placing it either in the kitchen or in an outside wall 
upon which the sun shines. If possible, if should be sot where it will 
be cold enough in winter not to need ice. An ideal arrangement would 
be to have it set or built into an inside wall between pantry and back 
entry or covered porch; this gives opportunity for the iceman to fill it 
without tracking through the kitchen, and yet the door to food chambers 
opens into the pantry. The convenience of having the refrigerator placed 
near the kitchen work table, is perhaps somewhat exaggerated by some 
writers on household administration. The cellar, however, does seem 



1916] THE HOUSE'lOLD REFRIGERATOR 663 

decidedly toojnconvenient allocation, and is likely also to be musty, 
and too dark to be sure of absolute cleanliness. The wise housekeeper 
plans her work so as to open the ice-box door as seldom as possible; 
if she can manage so that this occurs only ten or twelve times a day, 
so much the better, in the interests of ice economy as well as of food 
sanitation. 

The drip pipe of the refrigerator commonly closes at the bottom with 
a sort of trap holding a light water seal which prevents the warm outside 
air from entering the box at this point Some inches below this is set 
a larger basin with trap, and waste pipe leading away from it. This 
waste pipe is sometimes led outside the house to a gravel or tile drain 
which carries the water from the house; or sometimes it empties itself 
above a basement fixture or open trap which is connected with the 
house sewer. This series of traps and broken connections makes it 
practically impossible for the sewer air ever to enter the refrigerator — 
an occurrence which would be highly undesirable from the esthetic 
standpoint, to say the least, apart from any (exceedingly remote) 
possibility of carrying infection into food. 

Care of the refrigerator. The water drippings from melting ice, and the 
surfaces over which it passes, are not sterile even though they may be 
thoroughly clean from the housewife's standpoint. On the contrary, 
certain slime-producing organisms flourish well in these cool, dark, damp 
places; and though they are not in the least dangerous to health, they do 
clog up the pipes in time. Besides this slime, there is usually more 
or less dirt and debris coming from the ice; and so the drip pipe is made 
removable for most of its length, and should be thoroughly scrubbed 
out every two or three weeks, as should also the removable cups in the 
traps. An occasional flushing with hot washing soda solution tends 
to "cut" this slime and prevent its accumulation. 

The inside of the food chamber should be kept as clean as are the dishes 
into which food is put,- -mainly for esthetic reasons, since it is difficult 
to conceive of household conditions such that food could ever become 
infected with disease-producing or "ptomaine"-forming organisms com- 
ing from the walls of the refrigerator. A thorough scrubbing of walls 
with soap suds, washing powder, or disinfectant, will not often be neces- 
sary if pains be taken to wipe up every slop and spill at the time it 
occurs. 

Ice should not be wrapped in paper or blankets to keep it from melt- 
ing. Only by its melting can the food chamber be kept cool. 



664 THE JOURNAL OF HOi£E ECONOMICS [December 

AN ADEQUATE DIET 

The interest of late years in the subject of diet has resulteci in many 
books and articles written by those who at most have the ''little knowl- 
edge" that "is a dangerous thing." Unproved "facts" have been 
stated as truths; faddists have exploited their own opinions; alarmists 
have implied dangers that are at least remote; and, worst of all, half- 
truths have been given, difficult to deny, yet often most misleading. 

It is only within a comparatively short time that we have had a 
"fundamental basis for nutrition." It is good to know that many 
experts in research and knowledge are now interpreting their results 
for the benefit of those without technical training. 

Dr. Graham Lusk of Cornell Medical School, Dr. Lafayette Mendel 
of Yale, Dr. Percy Stiles of Harvard, have each given in most readable 
form, within the compass of a fifty cent book, the main facts that have 
been established. Others have published short papers that need little 
or no interpretation to make them useful to the homemaker. One of 
these by Dr. IMcCollum of Wisconsin, has lately appeared in the New 
York Medical Journal. He has not only pointed out the "essential fac- 
tors in a successful diet," but has shown how these have been de- 
termined. He says: 

Our knowledge of this subject has come through persistent experimenting 
with rations made up of purified food stuffs. With such diets, employing 
rats as experimental animals, the writer has now had a continuous experience 
covering nine years. The evidence appears to be convincing that we are 
now in possession of an adequate theory concerning what constitutes a suc- 
cessful diet. 

If a young rat is placed upon a diet consisting of purified protein, carbo- 
hydrate, a vegetable fat such as olive oil, and an inorganic salt mLxture made 
up in imitation of the mineral content of some ration of ordinary food stuffs 
with which normal nutrition has been secured, no growth can take place. 
The reason for this is that this mixture, although it contains all the food 
principles which are ordinarily laid down in textbooks on nutrition, still 
lacks two chemical factors which are essential for growtli or prolonged well 
being. The evidence for tliis assumption is as follows: 

Suppose we prepare and add to this ration a water or alcoholic extract of 
some natural food stuff, such as peas, rice polishings, or wheat, which has 
been found effective in the cure of beriberi, and which therefore contains 
what has been designated vitamine. Even with this addition no growth 
can be secured. 



1916] AN ADEQUATE DIET 665 

If, however, we add to this mixture of purified protein, carbohydrate, 
vegetable fat, and salt mixture, both the extract described above and four 
or five per cent of butter fat, the food mixture becomes adequate for growth 
from weaning time to the normal adult size, and supports reproduction and 
the rearing of young. Certam other fats may be substituted for the butter 
fat, viz., egg yolk, fat or fats from the cells of animal organs; but thus far 
no vegetable fats have been found which contain enough of the unknown some- 
thing to induce growth at the normal rate. It is present m certain vege- 
table foods, especially in the leaves of plants, and therefore in that part 
consumed in large amounts by the herbivora, but to much less degree by 
other animals. The corn and wheat kernels contain some of it, but the 
amount is too low for normal growth, while the oat kernel seems to have 
less than the other two named. In none of the cereal grains have we found 
a content of this substance sufficient to meet the demands of a growing 
animal. 
The chemical nature of both these things is unknown. 
The water soluble substance (vitamine) is widely distributed in liberal 
amounts in our naturally occurring food stufiFs, but is not present in starch, 
cane sugar, polished rice, or in any of the fats of either animal or plant origin. 
Now let us consider what such ^perimental results mean. If an ani- 
mal can grow to maturity, reproduce, and rear young on a monotonous diet 
of purified protein, carbohydrate, butter fat, and salt mixture, to which a 
little water or alcoholic extract of a grain is added it is evident that all the 
complexes essential for complete nutrition are present in the mixture. There 
is abundant experience to prove that tJie protein of the ration may be a 
phosphorus-containing one, such as casein from milk, or it may be a phos- 
phorus-free protein as albumin of egg. The young animal can draw all the 
phosphorus needed from simple inorganic phosphates, which are furnished 
in the salt mixture added to its food. In the course of many trials I have 
never seen growth enhanced by the addition of organic phosphorus compounds. 
All the iron can likewise be drawn from inorganic forms of iron, since in 
the diets employed in our work the iron was supplied only in the form of 
citrate or lactate. 

It should be emphasized that proteins are by no means of equivalent 
values as sources of nitrogen. There are some proteins which, if taken 
singly, are insufficient as sole sources of nitrogen for a growing animal. 

Dr. McCollum concludes from continued experiments, that while 
some organic constituents of food, long thought indispensable, may be 
supplied in other forms, there exist two indispensable dietary factors 
not recognized until lately. These are often called food accessories. 

The practical application of their discovery lies in the increased 



666 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Dcccmbor 

emphasis on the advantage of a mixed diet, and, in case of a re- 
stricted diet, the necessity of paying especial attention to their in- 
clusion. 

The following are some of the books and papers dealing with diet 
that are especially valuable to the householder. 

An Adequate Diet. By Percy Stiles. Harvard University Press, 
Cambridge, Mass., 1916, pp. 48. $0.50. 

The Fundamental Basis of Nutrition. By Graham Lusk. Yale 
University Press, New Haven, Conn., 1914, pp. 62. $0.50. 

Changes in the Food Supply. By Lafayette Mendel. Yale Univer- 
sity Press, 1915, pp. 61. $0.50. 

The Mineral Nutrients in I'ractical Pluman Dietetics. By E. B. 
Forbes, Journal of Home Economics, March, 1916, pp. 122-130. 

Food Selection for Rational and Economical Living. By C. F. 
Lang^^'orthy, Journal of Home Economics, June, 1916, pp. 313-318. 

The Essential Factors in a Successful Diet. By E. V. McCollum, 
Neiv York Medical Journal, April, 1916, pp. 838, 839. 



EDITORIAL 

Free Reference Home Economics Library. The establishment 
of a free reference library in Home Economics in New York by the 
National Special Aid Society, reported in the news columns, is a long 
step forward in the work for the homemakers of this country. The 
public libraries have been helpful, but they have unfortunately not had 
the information to discriminate between the books that give accurate 
information and those that are amateurish and often full of extraordi- 
nary misstatements. The public libraries also, and naturally, put the 
greater part of the Home Economics books into the circulating depart- 
ment, and the homemaker who makes an efTort to get to the library 
for help in her housekeeping problems is discouraged to find that all 
the books are "out. " She is also puzzled to choose among them those 
particularly suited to her need. Only a person with Home Economics 
training can help her in this, and no small part of the importance of the 
new library is that there this has been provided. It is to be hoped that 
other cities will soon be provided with similar collections and librarians, 
either as part of the regular public library work or as the enterprise of 
some special group like the one in New York. 

The Ellen H. Richards Home Economics Memorial Fund. 

The trustees of the Richards Memorial Fund are sending out a letter 
asking that each reader of the Journal and member of the Association 
make a personal contribution toward the increase of the Fund by sending 
one dollar for Home Economics Day, December 3, 1916. The Fund is 
now over $4,000 and it would be nearly doubled if this plan should 
be carried out. 

That the Fund be completed is the great desire not only of those 
who knew Mrs. Richards but also of those who believe that the Ameri- 
can Home Economics Association has real work to do for the home. 
Many individuals have given to it already and many schools have 
raised money for it through plays, teas, or in other ways, but we must 
do much more if we are to have a fund so large that its income may 
accomplish the work that is offering itself. 

667 



668 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (DeCCmbCT 

There seems to have been some confusion between this fund and the 
Ellen H. Richards Research Fund and because of this some have 
thought our fund already completed. 

In January, 1913, there was presented to the Massachusetts Insti- 
tute of Technology a fund of $15,000, in memory of Mrs. Richards, 
to be known by her name, and to be used for research work in sanitary 
chemistry. This is administered by the Institute, in Mrs. Richards' 
own department. 

The Ellen H. Richards Home Economics Memorial Fund, on the other 
hand, is being raised by the American Home Economics Association, 
and is controlled by a board of trustees elected by the Council of that 
association. Mr. Frederick B. Pratt of Pratt Institute is Chairman 
of this board, and Dr. Andrews of Teachers College, Secretary-Treasurer. 

The fund is invested and only the income is to be used for "advancing 
home economics in fundamental ways by research and publication" 
and practical social service. 

So far this income has been expended chiefly on the various publica- 
tions listed under the name of the Richards Memorial Fund. Many of 
these are by their sale already bringing in returns. 

''The Best Laid Plans." It was the plan of the Editor and the 
Journal Board, with the cooperation of the Science Section, to make 
this December number of the magazine largely a review of the investi- 
gations and research recorded from August, 1915, to August, 1916. 
It was hoped that these might be presented in such a way as to be of 
real service not only to the college teacher but to those teaching in the 
high schools, and to the householder as well. 

Many things have interfered so that the plan has been only partially 
carried out. We beUeve, however, that Miss Blunt's article ah)ne wou'd 
justify the attempt we made. Early in the year similar reviews will 
appear covering other subjects. 

ANNOUNCEMENT 

The Richards Memorial Fund Committee are collecting material 
for a biographical sketch of Mrs. Edna Day Hyde. They ask that all 
who have letters, biographical facts, notes on talks, addresses, lectures, 
or courses from which selection may be made, send them to Dr. B. R. 
Andrews, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York City, or 
to the Journal. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Any book or periodical mentioned m this department may be obtained through the 
JouBNAL or HoMK EcoNoincs if the Journal price is listed. 



A History of the Family as a Social and 
Educational Institution. By Willysti.ve 
GooDSELL. New York: The Macmillan 
Company, 1915, pp. 588. $2.00. By 
mail of the Journal, $2.14. 

Present-day homes and family relation- 
ships are a sul)ject of such widespread dis- 
cussion that a new study of the situation by 
a recognized authority is welcomed alike 
by the casual reader and the student. Those 
who have struggled with the scattered and 
scanty suitable material of the past, realize 
what a prodigious study and effort is repre- 
sented in Goodsells History of the family 
as a Social and Educational Institution and 
feel a corresponding gratitude for such sub- 
stantial and masterly aid as it affords. 

No theories concerning the social relation- 
ships of the family can be valued which are 
not based upon a careful and intelligent 
study of the past. This volume presents a 
painstaking historical survey from the ear- 
liest primitive forms of marriage to the pres- 
ent. With rare human touch and interest 
the narrative covers the Hebrew, Greek, and 
Roman types, the family of the Middle 
Ages, the Renaissance, the English family 
of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries 
and, finally, the American family from the 
Colonial period to the present. The po- 
sition of woman in the home and family life 
of these different periods, her rights, restric- 
tions, opportunities, and duties, are all 
graphically pictured. Significant modifica- 
tions due to the influence of conquests, 
the introduction of Christianity, industrial 
changes and racial characteristics are traced 
in illuminating fashion. 

One comes, finally, to the closing chap 
ters, which consider present problems and 
prevailing theories concerning family stabil- 
ity, the disharmonies evidenced in increasing 
divorce, the decline of the birth rate, tlie 



future status of woman, and the like, with a 
consciousness of the excellent preparation of 
the previous chapters for saner and more 
intelligent judgment concerning these per- 
plexities in our social order. The natural, 
subtle argument of the book paves the way 
for the ne.xt progressive step as that of wom- 
an's fuller cmanci[)ation with increased 
power and opportunity. The conviction of 
her capacity to meet the enlarged respon- 
sibilities grows as one traces the results of 
her increased influence in the past. 

One is especially grateful for the optimism 
and assurance of steady growth and progress 
which characterizes the book. It is very 
refreshing and heartening in the midst of 
its more sombre contemporaries. It is sel- 
dom that an author is so happy in being able 
to present an appeal to so varied a reading 
public, and at the same time give to the 
literature on this difhcult subject such a 
scholarly contribution. 

Bertha M. Terrill. 

General Science. By Lewis Elhufp. Bos- 
ton: D. C. Heath and Company, 1916, 
pp. vui + 438. $1.20. By mail of the 
Journal, $1.32. 

No demand on the school is more urgent 
today, than that it shall give boys and girls 
an opportunity to study a science which 
meets pupil needs. The purpose of this 
book is, of course, to meet this demand. 
The crux of the problem which presented it- 
self to the author was to interpret correctly 
pupil needs and then adopt that method 
which best meets that need. 

The author very oroperiy made the pupil, 
— his health, interests, experiences, environ- 
ment — the focusing point. This being the 
basis of selection of subject matter, we find 
discussed in this book topics which have, in 
the main, a practical bearing and a real sig- 

669 



670 



THE JOURNAL OF HOBJE ECONOMICS 



[December 



nificance socially. In this category belong 
such topics as health, ventilation, city water 
supply, artificial lighting, how to care for 
the soil, and many others. These are the 
topics which meet pupil and community 
needs as far as subject matter goes and 
these he has given adequate and illuminating 
treatment. 

There are forty-two chapters. At the end 
of each chapter appears a series of questions 
and exercises. They are descriptions of ex- 
periments to be performed at home or ques- 
tions calling for an application of the facts 
and principles learned. The excellence of 
these questions and exercises is a feature of 
this book. They are a distinct help to the 
teacher who wants to give real hve science 
instruction. 

The author is more fortunate in his book 
than in the statement of his pedagogical 
creed. It has not been established as stated 
in the preface that "repetition of funda- 
mentals until they become a part of the 
pupil is the secret of successful science 
teaching." The fundamentals of science are 
not the most fundamental things, i.e., the end 
and aim of science instruction. There is a 
growing conviction that science in schools 
has suffered much from this practice of 
drilling in fundamentals. The growth of 
"general science" is, in a large measure, a 
protest against this conception of science 
teaching. But pupils do not read prefaces 
and that which the author conceives to be 
the highest aim and purpose of science teach- 
ing is not e\adent in the printed page of the 
text. 

This book is a faithful compilation of 
scientific facts and principles worth while. 
The teacher needs this kind to attain the 
highest purposes of science instruction and 
on this ground the book deserves careful 
consideration. Roland H. \\ili.i.\ms. 

The Science of Flomc Making. By Emma 
E. PiRiE. Chicago: Scott, Forcsman and 
Company, 1915, pp. 392. $0.90. By mail 
of the Journal, $1.00. 

This textbook is intended for use in the 
grammar and lov.er high scliool grades; 
and it rovers an enomaous territory, amaz- 



ingly well, for the most part. Notwith- 
standing the largeness of its title, it is 
devoted chiefly to foods and cooking; yet 
laundering, home nursing, i.r.ant feeding 
and care, household accounts and family 
budget, house furnishing and decoration 
and care, pure food laws, table manners, 
intestinal segmentation, agar jellies for 
bacteriological studies, all receive some brief 
attention. 

The recipes are very numerous and highly 
varied; in fact, they furnish one of the best 
features of the book, though errors, pre- 
sumably typographical, have crept in once 
or twice at least. 

The author has a happy faculty of treat- 
ing complicated matters in simple language 
and concise fashion; as when she disposes 
of "the balanced ration" in a few well- 
chosen words, which though they explain 
little and omit much, can hardly prove 
misleading, in the large view. Her practi- 
cal points in housewifery are most helpful. 
The greater pnrt of her material is well 
up to date. 

In the effort to cover so much territory, 
however, it is inevitable that some misrep- 
resentations must occur. "If the supply 
of oxygen is deficient the digestion is slow" 
(importance of fresh air), "silver plate is 
hard to keep in order," "use thin, light 
enameled ware for (cooking of) foods con- 
taining much acid or soda," "shelves and 
towel rods of glass are most hygienic for 
the bath room," "one-seventh (of the daily 
3000 calories) should come from proteins, 
two-sevenths from fat," 'though some 
authorities recommend a greater proportion 
of protein," — these are some of the things 
we feel inclined to dispute. 

It will take an unusually good teacher to 
carr>- through successfully with such j-oung 
students some of the exercises suggested; 
e.g., pp. 44 and 45 (digestion experiments, 
food analysis), p. 49 (table of digestive 
enzymes), p. 56 (make out scvciaJ daily 
balanced rations — at the very beginning of 
the food study). One has a feeling, that 
if all of the work here outlined were really 
carried out, there would be little left for 
suoceeding courses to accomplish. 

MrwA Dknton. 



1916] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 671 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

• PERIODICAL LITERATURE 

Contributions to the Bibliography are welcomed. Please send nmterial to the Journal. 

Foods and Cookery 

Greening of Oysters and Their Content of Heavy Metals. F. Liebcrt, Chem. Weekbl., 

12 (1915), Xo. 44, pp. 978-983. The green color of ccrUiin varieties of oysters, in some 
cases, is said to be due to alga; and in others to a high cop|)er content. 

Milhng {and Baking] Tests of Wheat. North Dakota Sta. Rpt., Dickinson Substa., 1913, 
pp. 20-22. 

A Study of Certain Conditions which .Vffect the Activity of Proteolytic Enzymes in 
Wheat Flour. C. O. Swanson and E. L. Tague, Jour. Amer. Chem. Soc, 3S (1916), no. 5, 
pp. 1098-1109. 

The Content of Stems in Java Tea and Testing of Tea. J. J. B. Dcuss, Chem. Weekbl., 

13 (1916), no. 3, pp. 66-71; abs. in Expt. Sia. Rcc, 35 (1916), no. 3, p. 266. 

[Food and Drug Analyses.] E. F. Ladd and .Mma K. Johnson, Nnrlh Dakota Sta. Spec. 
Bui., 4 (1916), no. 3, pp. 72-80. 

The Economics of Electric Cooking. P. W. Gumaer, Univ. Mo. Bui., 16 (1915), no. 27, 
pp. 62, figs. 37. A report of a study of some of the factors which increase the economy of 
electric cooking. 

Shipping Fish 3000 Miles to Market. E. D. Clark, U. S. Dept. .Igr. Yearbook 1915, pp. 
155-158, pis. 3. Contains information regardingthchandling, storing, and shipping of halibut 
and salmon on the Pacific coast. 

The Baking Qualities of Different Varieties of Wheat. O. Rammstedt, /Aschr. OJJenU. 
Chem., 21 (1915), nos. 20, pp. 306-312; 21, pp. 321-329; 22. pp. 337-345; abs. in ExpL 
Sta. Rec., 35 (1916), no. 2, p. 162. 

Nutritive Value of Wheat Flour and Bread in Relation to Phosphorus Content. G. 
Masoni, Staz. Sper. Agr. Hal., 48 (1915), no. 5-7, pp. 3S5-t56; ab.v in Expl. Sta. Rec, 35 
(1916), no. 2, p. 162. 

The Noteworthy Property of .Mdehydes in Retarding the Staling of Bread. J. R. Katz, 
Hoppe-Seyler's Zlschr. Physiol. Chem., 96 fl916), no. 4^5, pp. 314-322; abs. in Expi. .Sta. 
Rec., 35 (1916), no. 2, p. i53. 

Bread Making and Butyric Ferment in Latium. R. Pcrotti and U. Cristofoletti, Slas. 
Sper. Agr. ltd., 48 (1915), no. 5-7, pp. 361-384; abs. in Expt. Sta. Rec, ?,S (1916), no. 2. 
p. 163. 

Does Light Influence the Staling of Bread? J. R. Katz, Hoppe-Seyler's Ztschr. Physiol. 
Chem., 96 (1916), no. 4-5, pp. 288-291; abs. in Expt. Sta. Rec, 35 (1916), no. 2, p. 162. 
From these e.vperiments the author concludes that light does not influence the staling of 
bread. 

Tomato Ketchups. C. H. LaWall and L. Forman, Penii. Dept. .\gr. Bui. 272 (1915), 
pp. 30. This reports the results of the chemical analysis of 142 samples. 

[Food and Drug Inspection.] R. B. Fitz-Randolph and H. G. Tice, Ann. Rpt. Bd. Health 
K. J., 38 (1914), pp. 133-183, pi. 1. 

The Chemistry of Cow's Milk and Other Products Used in Infant Feeding. F. W. Howe, 
Arch. Ped., 3i, (1916), Xo. 1, pp. 1-12. A compilation of data showing the composition of 
milk and also the other products (protein milk, whey, etc.) used in infant feeding. 

.\ ]Method for the Determination of the Strength and Baking Qualities of Wheat Hour. 
C. H. Bailey, Oper. Miller, 21 (1916), no. 2, pp. 104-106, figs. 2. 

On the Chemical Constitution of the Proteins of Wheat Flour and Its Relation to Baking 
Strength. M. J. Blish, Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., 8, (1916), no. 2, pp. 138-144. 

Analyses of Wheats and Flours. Ann. Rpt. Dept. Agr. and Stock [Queensland], 1914-15, 
pp. 54-61. 



672 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

Physiology and Nutrition 

Studies in Infant Metabolism and Nutrition. V, The Composition and Preparation of 
Protein Milk (Eiweissnulch). L. E. Holt, D. D. Van Slyke, Angelia M. Courtney, and 
Helen L. Fales, Amer. Jour. Diseases Children, 10 (1915), no. 3, pp. 172-182. 

The Action of the Digestive Ferments on the So-called Fish Poison. S. W. Konstann- 
soff and E. O. ManoilofT, Wiener Klin. Wclmschr., 27 (1914), no. 25, pp. 883-886; abs. in 
Expt. Sla. Record, 34, p. 459. 

The Treatment of Infantile Beri-beri with the Extract of Tiqui-tiqui. J. Albert, Philip- 
pine Jam. Sci., Sect. B, 10 (1915), no. 1, pp. 81-85; abs. in Expi. Sla. Record, 34, p. 662. 

Contribution to the Question of Infant Feeding. H. Timpe, Zlschr. Fleisch ii. Milchhyg., 
25 (1915), nos. 17, pp. 257-262; 18, pp. 276-281; abs. in Expt. Sla. Record, 34, p. 662. 

Miscellaneous Notes and Comments on Beri-beri. R. R. Williams and J. A. Johnston, 
Philippine Jour. Sci., Sect. B, 10 (1915), no. 5, pp. 337-343; abs. in Expt. Sla. Record, 34, 
p. 662. 

The Importance of Lime in the Nutrition of Man, Animals, and Plants. B. Heinze, 
Naturwissen^chaften, 3 (1915), no. 42, pp. 536-540; abs. in Expl. Sla. Record, 34, p. 662, 

The Influence of Nutrition and Sickness on the Growth of the Brain During the First 
Year of Life. W. Sawidowitsch, Inaug. Diss. Univ. Berlin, 1914; abs. in Expl. Sta. Record, 
34, p. 662. 

The Influence of the Diet on the Nitrogen and Chlorin Content of Perspiration. E, 
Berry, Biochem. Zlschr., 72, (1915), no. 3-4, pp. 285-302, fig. 1; abs. in Expl. Sla. Record, 34. 
p. 662. 

The Occurrence of Methyl Alcohol in the Urine in the Ca^^e of Dififerent Diets. T. von 
Fellenberg, Milt. Lehens. Unlersuch. u. Uyg., Schweiz. Gsndhlsmt., 6 (1915), no. 1, pp. 24-37; 
abs. in Expt. Sla. Record, 34, p. 662. 

The Question of Ferment Adaptation. I. Koopman, Internal. Zlsch. Phys. Chem. Biol., 
2 (1915), no. 4-5, pp. 266-271; abs. in Expt. Sta. Record, 34, p. 662. 

The Nutrition of the School Child. G. A. Brown, Jour. Stale Med., 23 (1915), nos. 11, 
pp. 329-335; 12, pp. 353-358. 

Studies in Diabetes. — I, Theory of Diabetes, with Consideration of the Probable Mechan- 
ism of Antiketogenesis and the Cause of Acidosis. A. I. Ringer, Joiir. Biol. Chem., 17 
(1914), no. 2, pp. 107-119. 

Contribution to the Physiology of the Stomach. — XXI, The Sscretion of Gastric Juice 
in Man. A. J. Carlson, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 37 (1915), no. 1, pp. 50-73, fig. 1. 

On the Secretion of Bile. S. Okada, Jour. Physiol., 49 (1915), no. 5, pp. 457-482. 

Studies of Pellagra. Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 65, (1915), no. 21, pp. 1818, 1819. 

Hygiene and Sanitation 

Health Insurance in its Relation to Public Health. I. M. Rubinow, Jour. .Imer. Med. 
Assn., 67 (1916), no. 14, pp. 1011-1015. 

Health Insurance. — Its Relation to the National Health. B. S. Warren, Jour. Amer. 
Med. Assn., 67 (1916), no. 14, pp. 1015-1019. 

Other I'actors in Infant Mortality than the Milk Supply and Their Control. Grace L. 
Meigs. Amrr. Jour. Publ. IlccUlh, 6 (1916), no. 8, pp. 847-853. 

The Bacteria in Ice Cream. W. M. Ester and C. J. Mason, Connecticut Slorrs Sta. Bui. 
83 (1915), pp. 128-134, fig. 1. 

Feeding Experiments with Bacterium Pullorum. The Toxicity of Infected Eggs. L. F. 
Rcttgcr, T. G. Hull, and W. S. Sturges, Jour. Expt. Med., 23, (1916), no. 4, pp. 475-180. 

An Outbreak of Typhoid Attributed to Infected Oysters. P. B. Brooks, Jour. Amer. 
Med. Assn., 66 (1916), no. 19, pp. 1445-1447. 

Efficiency in the Worker, and Its Maintenance. W. I. Clark, .if?u-r. Jour. Pub. Health, 
6 (1916), no. 8, pp. 870, 871. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

ANNU.\L MEETING OF THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS 
ASSOCIATION, CORNELL UNIVERSITY, ITHACA, NEW YORK, 
JUNE 28— JULY 2, 1916 

Within a few days the Proceedings of the annual meeting are to be published and a 
copy will be sent to active members as one of the regular Bulletins of the Association. 
These proceedings will contain ail the papers presented except such as are printed in the 
Journal, and these will be summarized. 

A brief account of the meeting was given in the August Journal, and tiiis more 
formal report is added chiefly for those who do not wish the full proceedings. 

The ninth annual meeting of the American Home Economics .\ssociation was held at 
Cornell University from June 28 to July 2, I9I6. In addition to the General Program, 
there were meetings of the Institution, Extension, and Science Sections, Conferences on 
Cafeteria Management, Laundry Management, Dietetics, and Budgets, and the Program of 
the Committee of Fifty for Journalism. 

Inslitulion Section 

The first session of the Institution Section was held on Wednesday, June 28, at 9.30 a.m. 
Miss Emma H. Gunther, Secretary, acted as Chairman in the absence of Miss Sarah Louise 
Arnold. The meeting, with the subject — Students' Food— was opened by Miss Elizabeth 
Goodrich of Simmons College who read a paper on SerN-ice at a Dormitory Table. Problems 
connected with the choice and sernce of food were discussed in the light of personal ex- 
perience bj' Miss Lord, Miss Goodrich, Miss Watson, Miss Ivoomis, and Mr. Proudraan. 

.\ second meeting of the Section was held on Wednesday evening, June 28, at 8 p.m., 
at which Prof. Wm. Morse Cole of Harvard University presided. Prof. C.-E. A. Winslow 
of the School of Medicine, Yale University, presented a paper on Sanitary Surveys of Insti- 
tutions in which he enumerated the most important factors and discussed the methods most 
likely to meet with success in carrying out the survej-. Miss Henrietta Roelofs, House- 
hold Employment Commission of the Y. W. C. A., New York City, read a paper on Studies 
of Labor Problems in Household Employment. There was an extended discussion of vari- 
ous problems connected with service. 

Extension Section 

The meeting of the Extension Section was held on Wednesday, June 28, at 9.30 a. m 
Miss Laura Comstock presided in the absence of Miss McChe>'ne. A paper on the Purpose 
of the E.xtension Section was read by Miss Comstock, this meeting being the first anni- 
versar>' of the founding of the Section. The other papers presented were: The Relation 
of the Extension Staff of the University to the Regular Department of Home Economics, 
by Mamie Bunch, State Leader in Home Economics Extension, University of Illinois; 
Courses of Instruction for Extension Workers, by Elizabeth Kelley, University of Wis- 
consin; How We Conduct the Work in Florida, by Agnes Ellen Harris, State University, 
Tallahasee, Florida; Financing the Home Demonstration Work, by D. W. Working, U. S. 
Department of Agriculture; and Home Demonstration Work in the South by Ola Powell, 
U. S. Department of .Agriculture. Mi.<5s Van Rensselaer e\-plained the program and opened 

673 



674 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Dcccmber 

the discussion of the "County Agent." This subject was discussed further by Miss Kelley 
of Wisconsin, Miss Pritchett of Maryland, Miss Hayes of Connecticut, Miss Comstock of 
Massachusetts, Miss Rowe of Minnesota, Mrs. Warner of Massachusetts, Mr. Forestahl, 
County Agent of Cortland County, New York, and Miss Benefiel of Illinois. Jurior Exten- 
sion Work was discussed by Mr. Griffin and Miss Titsworth of Cornell. 

At the afternoon session reports of committees were read and ofiScers of the Section were 
elected as follows: Miss Neale S. Knowles of Iowa State College, Chairman, and Miss Edith 
Parrott of Wnthrop College, Secretary. 

On June 30 at 9 a.m., Mr. Forestahl talked on Results in Home Surveys; this was 
continued at the afternoon session. 

Science Section 

The sessions of the Science Section were held on June 28 at 9.30 a.m. and 2.30 p. m. The 
following papers were presented: The Digestibility of Starch as Affected by Various Processes 
of Cookery, Amy Louise Daniels, University of Wisconsin; Practical Ways of Increasing the 
Iron Content of the Diet, Caroline L. Hunt, Department of Agriculture; The Most Favor- 
able Temperatures for the Cooking of Some Typical Foods, Louise Stanley and May 
Wallace, tfniversity of Missouri; Recent Contributions to Knowledge of Mineral Metabolism 
Grace McLeod, Pratt Institute; The New Dietetic Treatment of Diabetes Mellitus, Lenna 
F. Cooper, Battle Creek, Michigan; Recent Contributions of Bacteriology to the Home, 
Mrs. Josephine Kerr Allison, Urbana, 111.; Creatin and Creatinin in Excretion, Mrs. Emma 
B. Wagner, University of Missouri; Cooperation Between the Home Economics Department 
and the Hospital, Ruth Wardall, Iowa State University. 

On June 30, at 3.30 p.m. the adjourned meeting took the form of an informal question- 
naire and Drs. DuBois and Langworthy answered questions regarding various phases of 
nutrition. At an adjourned meeting at 7.00 p.m. the following officers were elected: Chair- 
man, Ruth Wheeler, University of Illinois; Secretary, Lenna F. Cooper, Battle Creek. 

General Program 

The General Program extended through June 29 and 30. The following papers were 
read, relative to housing: The Development of the House, by Helen Binkerd Young, which 
discussed the factors to be considered in planning a house; Practice Houses for Students 
in Home Economics, by Isabel Ely Lord, in which were described the practice houses at 
Pratt Institute where students work out the problems of housekeeping; and the Housing 
Problem, by Lawrence V'eiller, which discussed unhygienic conditions due to dark rooms, 
overcrowding, and lack of proper toilet facihties, both urban and rural. 

At the Conference on Health, Prof. C.-E. A. Winslow read a paper on PubUc Health in 
the Past and in the Future and Dr. Foster read a paper by Dr. Wilham F. Snow on The 
Relation of Home Economics Education to Social Hygiene. At the evening session, Mr. 
Alvin E. Dodd read a paper on Training Women to Earn — A National Movement. In 
the discussion of this paper considerable information was given regarding the Smith-Hughes 
bill for vocational education. Miss Ward and Miss Powell of the U. S. Department of 
.\griculture spoke of the work in Home Economics Extension under the Smith-Lever Act. 

On June 30 at 9.30 a.m. Mrs. Mary Schcnck Woolman read a paper on Medium Priced 
Linens for Institution and Home; Miss Celestinc Schmit one on The Teaching of Sewing 
and Miss Ethel Ronzonc one on The Standardization of Women's Clothing. Prof. Wilder D. 
Bancroft spoke on Chemistry and Cooking, and Dr. E. M. DuBois read a paper on The Basal 
Energy Requirement of Man. 

At 2.00 p.m. a Conference was held on lUemenlary Education in Hume Economics at 
which Mrs. Martha French presided. Papers were presented by Miss Adelaide L. N'aiiDuzer 



1916] NEWS FROM THE FIELD 675 

on Home Economics Equipment, and Miss Ada Z. Fish on the Penn Family, which described 
the methods of teaching Plome Economics used in the William Penn High School, PhUa- 
delphia, Pa. At the same hour a Conference of Administrative Workers was held at which 
Miss Josephine Berry presided, and one on Social Work in Home Economics at which Miu 
Emma A. Winslow presided. 

The Program of the ComrrtitUx of Fifty for Journalism 
The Chairman of this meeting was Miss Anna M. East of Philadelphia, Pa. The fol- 
lowing papers were read: Training the Pen to Keep Step with the Laboratory, by Mrs. Alice 
P. Norton; The Editors Blue Pencil, discussed by Anna Barrows, Mrs. Jessamine Chap- 
man WUliams and Helen Louise Johnson; Our Writing Laboratory— The Papers, by Harry R. 
O'Brien; Why the Business Worid Needs Experts who Can Write, by Mrs. Grace R. Wilmot; 
How Uncle Sam Writes, by C. F. Langworthy; Writing Your Own Press Notices by Mamie 
Bunch; Charting Your Way, by Geo. E. Farrcll; and Balancing Menus for Print, by Lenna F. 
Cooper. The subject of Filling the Gap— How to Cover the Distance Between the Domes- 
tic Science E.x-pert and the Editor was discussed by Isabel Bevier and Marie Sellers, and 
letters were read from James Tower and Mrs. Janet McKenzie HiU on the subject. Other 
papers presented were Planning My Magazine, by Leonarda Goss; Helping Farm Home- 
makers to Study their Business, by Harriet Mason; The Possibilities of a Woman's Page 
in the Daily Newspapers, by Mrs. Eva Hansl; Writing for the Family of Low-cost Standards, 
by Florence Nesbit, and Printing in Response to Request, by Elizabeth McCracken. 

Conferences and Special Meetings 

At the Conference on Cafeteria Management, Miss Anna M. East described the cafeteria 
of the Curtis Publishing Company and a number of problems in the work were discussed by 
Miss Goodrich, Miss Riley, Miss Lord, and others. 

At the Conference on Laundry Management, Miss Balderston reported the results of a 
study of the relative costs of laundry work in various parts of the United Sutes and in 
British Columbia, and various phases of Laundry work were discussed. 

Special meetings attended by a large number of dietitians were held. Miss Lenna F. 
Cooper of BatUe Creek, Mich., acted as Chairman, and Miss Rena S. Eckman of Massa- 
chusetts General Hospital, Boston, as Secretary. At these meetings special topics were 
discussed and certain measures were recommended toward future work in connection with 
the dietitian problem. 

The committee which was appointed at the annual meeting in 1915 to investigate prob- 
lems relative to the training of the different types of dietitians made its report at a special 
sectional meeting. The questionnaire method of the previous year was again used, this 
time being sent to dietitians instead of the hospital superintendents. 

About twenty replies were received. The answers commented upon the length of the 
course of training for dietitians, the deficiencies which had been found in their past training, 
and made recommendations for future additional courses, and suggested other questions 
which required some consideration, such as hospital ethics, and relaUon to the administra- 
tive staff. 

On the evening of July 1, a conference on budgets was held at which Dr. Andrews pre- 
sided. After the opening remarks by Dr. Andrews the foUowing papers were presented. 
Budget Studies, by Mrs. Mary Hinraan Abel; The Cost of Living of College Students, by 
Sara MacLeod; The Clothing Budget, by Ethel Ronzone; Budgets of FamUies in Narrow 
Circumstances, by \\-iniired Gibbs; and Methods of Keeping Cash Account Records in 
the Household, by William JNIorse Cole. 

On Sunday afternoon, July 2, a Community Meeting was held at which Dr. A. R. Mann 
presented a paper on The Home and the Community. 



676 



THE JOUBNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



A Free Reference Library on Home 
Economics, has been opened at 259 Fifth 
Avenue, New York City, in the rooms of 
the National Special Aid Society. A libra- 
rian trained in Home Economics (Miss Eunice 
Doggett, Pratt Institute Normal House- 
hold Science, 1913) is in charge. 

The National Special Aid Society in its 
work for "preparedness" has a Committee 
on Home Economics, with the following 
membership: Mrs. Annie Nathan Meyer, 
Chairman; Eva Barnard, Laura Cauble, 
Frank Curtis Gephart, Mabel Kittredge, 
Isabel Ely Lord, Frank Manny, Mrs. 
Ellen Rushmore McKeon, Mrs. Mary 
Schwartz Rose, May V^an Arsdale, and 
Florence Winchell. 

This committee believes that an impor- 
tant part of preparing for homemaking is the 
making available the best printed matter 
on the subject. The Home Economics 
.Association of Greater New York has given 
hearty cooperation to the committee and 
owns the books. The National Special Aid 
Society pro\'ides quarters and pays the 
librarian's salary. 

The library contains books approved 
for the purpose by the Committee on Home 
Economics, government bulletins, and the 
publications of Home Economics depart- 
ments of colleges and universities. The 
library has been most fortunate in receiv- 
ing a gift from Miss Margaret Loring Thomas 
of the first siz volumes of the Jouunax of 
Home Economics, lacking only the follow- 
ing numbers, Volume II, No. 2, Volume III, 
Nos. 2, 3, and 5. The committee hopes 
very much that someone who has these 



numbers will contribute them. The set 
will then be bound. 

The Journal is the only periodical that 
will be part of the library, hut it is the 
intention to clip the files of other magazines, 
when articles of value are published, and 
to have this material classified and made 
available. 

The library is absolutely free, and teachers 
as well as homemakers are urged to use it. 

The American Association for the Ad- 
vancement of Science and about forty 
national scientific societies affiliated with 
it will meet in New York City from Decem- 
ber 26 to 30, 1916, under the auspices of 
Columbia University, New York University, 
the College of the City of New York, The 
American Museum of Natural History, 
and the other scientific and educational 
institutions of the city. Dr. Charles R. 
Van Hise, president of the University of 
Wisconsin, will preside. For further in- 
formation apply to L. O. Howard, Perma- 
nent Secretary, American Association for 
the .Advancement of Science, Smithsonian 
Institution, Washington, D. C. 

Brief Notes: Prof. Marion Talbot, of 
the Department of Household .Administra- 
tion at the University of Chicago, and 
Dean of Women, has recently been made 
chairman of the new Committee on public 
health for the Woman's City Club of Chicago. 

Dr. Nellie Esther Goldthwaite. who has 
resigned her position in New Hampshire 
College, will travel for a year or more in 
Japan and the Orient. 



INDEX TO VOLUxME VIII 
1916 



A 

Accounting: Family account books, 545; 

Method of supporting financial records, 

130; Thrift by household accounting, 

532 
AccuM, I-REDRicK. Fredrick Accum and 

his writings on food chemistr>', 653 
Adequate diet, 664 

Aims and work of the N. S. P. I. E., 10 
Alabama H. E. A.,* 163 
Allen, Edith (Emily). Flired men's 

meals, 552 
Allison, Josephine KIerr. Some recent 

contributions of bacteriology to the 

home, 635 
American Association for Advauicement of 

Science,* 676 
American Chemical Society,* 337; 512 
American Home Economics Association,* 

159, 215, 337, 342, 406, 511, 673 
Andrews, Benjamin R. Fam'ly account 

books, 545; International interests in 

Home Economics, 595 
Announcements: 96, 206, 506, 558, 609, 668 
Application of statistics to budget making 

for lunch rooms, 19 
Armstrong, Donald B. The municipal 

laundry problem, 422; The sanitation 

of food stores and markets, 577 
Atwater, Helen W. Inexpensive restau- 
rants in Christiania and in Vienna and 

a shop girls restaurant in Copenhagen, 

.'01 
Avery, Edna Irene. A new departure in 

the teaching of sewing, 75 

B 
Baby week, 92 

Bache, Elizabeth Du Bois. Rennet cus- 
tard, the dish that makes itself, 195 



Bacteria in the air, 41 

Bacteriology, Recent contributions to, Mb 

Baker, Charlotte Gibbs. Clothes and 
the body, 320; Clothes and the income, 
373; Discrimination in buying, 251; 
Novelty versus quality, 191; Ready- 
made and homemade clothes, 448; Seven 
textile fibers, 144 

Ball, Katharine F. Mathematics ap- 
plied to the household arts, 521 

Bancroft, Wilder D. Washing and clean- 
ing, 356 

Barrows, Sarah T. A triumph of scien- 
tific housekeeping, 495 

Benefiel, Eva. -An appreciation, 656 

Bengston, Ida A. A study of condensed 
and evaporated milks, 29 

Betz, Mary R. The comparative cost of 
home prepared and commercially pre- 
pared foods, 133 

Bibliography of Home Economics: 49, 101, 
157, 212, 271, 335, 399, 459, 509, 563, 
617, 671 

Blunt, Katharine: Recent work on nor- 
mal adult nutrition, 623 

Book reviews: 45, 97, 151, 207, 267, 331, 
395, 455, 507, 559, 613, 669 
The Adolescent Period — Its Features 

and Management, 455 
America's Gifts to the Old Worid, 155 
Anglo-.\merican Cooking, 269 
The Art of Good Living, 151 
The Baby, 615 

The Baby's First Two Years, 395 
Bodily Changes in Pain, Hunger, Fear, 

and Rage, 152 
California Mexican-Spanish Cookbook 

269 
The Care of the Baby, 47 
Changes in the Food Supply and Their 
Relation to Nutrition, 332 



* Thoee starred are news notM. 



677 



678 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Book reviews — continued 

Chemistry and its Relation to Daily 

Life, 97 
Chemistry of Famih'ar Things, 267 
Child Training, 207 
Civilization and Health, 154 
Diet for Children, 614 
Early American Craftsmen, 457 
Eduard Merike's Haushaltungsbuch, 155 
Efficiency in the Household, 209 
Electric Cooking, Heating and Cleaning, 

97 
Elementary Household Chemistry, 45 
Exercise in Education and Medicine, 154 
Feterita, 507 
Five Playlets, 209 
General Science, 669 
Good Taste in Home Furnishing, 331 
A Guide to Laundry Work, 331 
The High Cost of Living, 267 
History of the Family as a Social and 

Educational Institution, 669 
Holy Earth, 456 

Home Making and Home Keeping, 209 
Household Arts and School Lunches, 

559 
How to Cook and Why, 151 
Indian Chutneys, Pickles, and Pre- 
serves, 269 
Industrial and Commercial Schools of 

the U. S. and Germany, 396 
Inside the House of Good Taste, 331 
Institutional Supplies, 99 
The Invalid and Convalescent Cookery 

Book, 268 
Kansas Flours — Chemical, Baking and 

Storage Tests, 507 
Laboratory Exf)eriments on Food Prod- 
ucts, 45 
Low Cost Cooking, 613 
Lower Living Costs in Cities, 267 
Manual of Creole Cooking, 269 
Mary at the Farm and Book of Recipes, 
Compiled During her Visit Among 
the "Pennsylvania Germans," 98 
The Means and Methods of Agricul- 
tural Education, 456 
The Mental Health of the School 

Child, 47 
Milk and Milk Products in the Home, 
541 



Book reviews — coniinued 

Modem Industry in Relation to the Fam- 
ily, Health, Education, Morality, 208 
Mothercraft, 615 
My Cookery Book, 268 
Nostrums and Quackery, 455 
The Nutrition of a Household, 560 
The Nutritive Value of the Avocado, 508 
Old Cookery Books, 268 
The Organic Flavoring Compounds, 98 
The Oriental Cook Book, 46 
Physiological Chemistrj', 153 
Popular Nutrition Bulletins, 508 
Principles of Correct Dress, 559 
Principles of Food Preparation, 152 
Principles of Health Control, 507 
Proso and Kaoliang as Table Foods, 508 
Retail Prices, 1907 to December, 1914, 

508 
A Review of the Literature of Phos- 
phorus Compounds in Animal Me- 
tabolism, 153 
Roman Cooks, 98 

Saving Fuel in Heating a House, 396 
School Credit for Home Work, 207 
Schools of To-Morrow, 332 
Science of Homemaking, 670 
Source, Chemistry and Use of Food 

Products, 45 
Spices, 396 
A Standard Dietary for an Orphanage, 

508 
Students' Manual in Househhold Arts: 

Food and Cooker>', 395 
A Study of Foods, 152 
A Text-Book of Cooking, 98 
A Text-Book of Domestic Science for 

High Schools, 46 
A Text-Book of Military Hygiene and 

Sanitation, 153 
Tobacco, 456 
The Treasure, 210 
Wanted: A Young Woman to Do 

Housework, 210 
Water Purification Plants and Their 

Operation, 455 
The Wlieat Industr)', for Use in Schools, 

456 
Your Baby; A Guide for Mothers, 614 
Boom, Mauy J. The high school library 
and Home Economics, 118 



1916] 



INDEX TO VOLUME VHI 



07f 



Boston Trade School for Girb, 162 

Boston Students' Union, 475 

Bread: Comparative cost of homemade and 
baker's bread, 40, 380; Cost of bread, 383 

Breakage of jars in canning, 452 

Brief notes,* 54, 108, 164, 218, 277, 341, 
404, 462, 512, 568, 622, 676 

Brown, Mary He.vleicu. Costume ap- 
preciation, 288 

Budget: Application of statistics to budget 
making for lunch rooms, 19; Clothing 
budgets, 376; Family account books, 
545; Making of a, 17; Thrift by house- 
hold accounting, 532 

Bdnch, Mamie. Eva M. Benefiel, an ap- 
preciation, 656 

BtmNHAM, E. S. Cost of bread, 383 

Business of homenaaking, 441 



Cafeteria— Shreveport, La. and N. Y. Y. W. 
C. A.,* 339 

Calkins, Mrs. Frederick. Municipal 
markets of the Northwest, 343 

Calorics in the edible portion of a number 
of foods, 82 

Camp for commuters, 378 

Canada: Canada's work,* 404; Short course* 
in Home Economics,* 620 

Candied cranberries, 91 

Canning and preserving: Breakage of jars 
in canning, 452; Candied cranberries, 91 

Carnegie celebration,* 105 

Camuth. Ella Kaiser. Three women 
and a farm, 256 

Central Association of Science and Mathe- 
matics Teachers,* 107 

Chicago Normal College,* 340 

Child Labor Confeience,* 216 

Children: Baby week, 92; Children's Christ- 
mas giv-ing, 659; Daily questions that 
mothers should ask, 261; Feeding of 
children, 147; Need of juvenile place- 
ment departments, 318; Stammering 
and its correction in the home, 606 

Children's Christmas giving, 659 

City housekeeping center, 417 

Cleaning silver by contact v.itl. aluminium 
in alkaline solution, 418 

Clothes and the body, 320 



Clothes and the income, 373 
Clothing and te.xtiles: Clothes and the body, 
320; Clothes and the income, 373; 
Clothing budgets, 376; College girl's 
wardrobe, 189; Costume appreciation, 
288; Discrimination in buying, 251, 
Domestic art in the high school com- 
mercial course, 112; Editorial com- 
ment, 326, 337; Evolutions of fashions 
of dress for women, 236; Household 
chemical tests for textile fabrics, 36; 
New departure in the teaching of sew- 
ing, 75; Novelty versus quality, 191; 
Ready-made and homemade clothing, 
448; Seven textile fibers. 144; Teach- 
ing of te.xtiles in elementary schools, 
297 
Clothing budgets, 376 
Cole, William Morse. The making of a 

budget, 17 
College girl's wardrobe, 189 
College of Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas * 

217 
Comment and discussion: 44, 205, 266, 327, 

388, 612 
Community: The home and the community, 
569; The teacher and the commuoity 
well-being, 279 
Comparative cost of homemade and baker's 

bread, 40 
Comparative cost of home prepared and 

commercially prepared foods, 133 
Cone, Alice M. A home economics ex- 
hibit, 296 
CoNLEY, Emma. The cooking note book, 

539 
Connecticut College for Women, 106 
Connecticut Home Economics Association,* 

566 
Contest and the tales it told, 294 
Contribution to exactness in cookery, 503 
Control of food colors, 172 
Convenient kitchen, 493 
Cookery: Comment and discussion, 205; 
Contribution to exactness in cookery, 
503; Pastry, 189; Potato starch and 
its use in the home, 38; Question box. 
329, 392; Recipes for iron-rich dishes, 
603; Rentet custard, the dish that 
makes itself, 195; Some ways of using 
junket, 258; Standardization of tem- 



680 



THE rOURNAL OF HOM£ ECONOMICS 



[December 



peratures ior cooking batters and 
doughs, 429; Use of diabetic flours, 137; 
Use of the thermometer in the cooking 
of soft custards, 178 

Cooking note-book, 539 

Cooperative ventures, 554 

Correction, 330 

Correspondence courses. Home Economics 
of collegiate grade, 227 

Cost of bread, 383 

Cost of foods from prison to palace hotel, 
527 

Cost of living: Clotlies and the income, 
373; Clothing budgets, 376; Compara- 
tive cost of homemade and baker's 
bread, 40; Cost of bread, 383; Family 
account books, 545; Living expenses 
of women students at the University 
of Illinois, 85; New phase of extension 
work in the South, 536; Triumph of 
scientific housekeeping, 495 
See also Homemade 

Costume appreciation, 288 

Costume in the cookery laboratory, 55 

Coimty agent and the farm home, 199 

Cox, Lenore Hanna. A gastronomic 
tour, 165; The value of the woman of 
leisure, 407 

CuLVEK, Floris. a new phase of extension 
work in the South, 536 



D 



Dahlman, Jane Teare. An exhibit of in- 
structive visiting housekeeping. 33 

Daily questions that mothers should ask, 
261 

Daniels, Amy. The use of diabetic Oours, 
137 

Denton, Minna C. The household refrig- 
erator, 660 

Detroit Home Economics Association,* 52, 
566 

Detroit meeting,* 215 

Development of Home Economics in social 
work, 68 

Dewey, Mrs. Melvil. Cost of foods 
from prison to palace hotel, 527; How 
the soldiers of Eurojie arc fcd,64'> 

Diabetic flours, The use of, 137 



Diet: Adequate diet, 664; Cost of food* 
from prison to palace hotel, 527; Food 
selection for rational and economical 
living, 313; Hired men's m .\ls, 552; 
How the soldiers of Europe are fed, 
649; Practicable ways of increasing the 
iron-content of the diet, 584; Question 
Box, 117, 247, 393, 658; Use of dia- 
betic flours, 137; Vitamines or life pre- 
servers, 642; War and dietetics, 488 
See also Nutrition 

Discrimination in buying, 251 

Domestic art: Costume appreciation, 288; 
Domestic art in the high school commer- 
cial course, 112; Mathematics applied to 
household arts, 521 
See also Clothing 

Domestic art in the high school commer- 
cial course, 112 

DuLANEY, Grace. The use of diabetic 
flours, 137 

DwYER, Charles,* 163 



East, Anna Merriti. A contest and the 
tales it told, 294 

East Tennessee Home Economics Confer- 
ence,* 162 

Editorial: 43, 94, 148, 203, 263, 325, 386, 
453, 505, 556, 608, 667 
Annual meeting, 325,453; Articles (refer- 
ence to), 43; Bogies, 148; Comments on 
woman's movement, 204; Comparative 
costs, 387; Free reference Home Eco- 
nomics Library, 667; Guides for femi- 
nine energy, 203; Household efficiency, 
264; International relations in Home 
Economics, 608; Journal, 43, 386; 
Marketing by phone, 95; National 
Child Labor Committee, 150; Personal 
opinion, 325; Practice versus preaching, 
149; Resolutions, 556; Richards Day, 
558; Smith-Hughes Bill, 505; Smoot 
Bill, 94; Standardized dress, 326; 
Women's industry after the war, 263 

Education: Aims and work of the N. S. 
P. I. E., 10; Education for the home, 
an outline, 372; Highest education for 
women, 1 ; Need of training teachers for 
extension education work, 78 
See also Study and Teaching 



1916J 



IN-DKX TV VOLUME VIII 



6S1 



Education for the home (an outline), 372 
Ellen H. Richards research fund, 81 
Ellen H. Richards research prize,* 274 
Ely Club for students,* 621 
Emerson, Martua F. The making of a 
home library, 597 

Equipment: The household refrigerator, 660; 
Household measurements, 202; Some 
suggestions as to domestic science 
equipment, 35<3; Use of school rooms 
and equipment, 16 

Essential questions, 591 

Evolutions of fashions of dress for women, 
236 

Exhibit of instructive \-isitLng housekeep- 
ing, 33 

Exhibits: Evolutions of fashions of dress for 
women, 236; Home Economics, 296; 
Instructive visiting housekeeping, 33; 
Unique college, 238 

Exposition plaque, 74 

Extension work: Canada,* 404; County 
agent and the farm home, 199; Florida's 
first home demonstration center, 414; 
Iowa,* 104; Middle West,* 337; Need 
of training teachers for extension edu- 
cation work. 78; New England,* 337; 
New phase of extension work in the 
South, 536; Ohio,* 104; Training the 
county agent, 368; University of Ne- 
braska,* 565 
See also Rural Work 



Facts for domestic art,* 53 

Family account books, 545 

Fassig, Percival. Is the grocer or the 
customer dishonest?, 499 

Feeding of children, 147 

Florida State College,* 218 

Florida's first home demonstration center, 
414 

Food selection for rational and economical 
liWng, 313 

Food: Calories in the edible portion of a 
number of foods, 82; Comparative cost 
of home prepared and conunercially 
prepared fooJs, 133; Control ui food 
coksrs, 172; Cost of foods from prison 



to palace hotel, 527; Food selection for 
rational and economical living, 313; 
Honey and its uses in the home, 87 
See also Cookery, Diet, and Nutrition. 

Forbes, E. B. The mineral nutrients in 
practical human dietetics, 122 

FRtcaiLiNc;, Leo.va C. The comparative 
cost of home prepared and commer- 
cially prepared foods, 133 

Free reference librar>' on Home Economics,* 
667 

Fundamental basis of nutrition, 304 



Garland school for homemaking,* 51 

Gastronomic tour, 165 

General Federation of Women's Clubs,* 273, 
405 

George Peabody College for Teachers,* 161 

GiBBS, Wlnifred S. The development of 
Home Economics in social work, 68 

Glenn, Mary Wilcox. The significance of 
the home, 463 

GoLDTHWAiTE, Nellie E. What should 
general chemistry contribute to the 
Home Economics course, specific in- 
formation, general concepts, or scien- 
tific methods?, 173 

Good health commercially considered, 92 

Gray, Cora E. Living expenses of women 
students at the University of IlUnois, 85 

Greater New York Home Economics Asso- 
ciation,* 52 

Grocer or customer dishonest?, 499 

H 

Hanna, Agnes K. Standards for high 
school textbooks in Home Economics, 
349 

HiCKOK, Mrs. Harvey M. The business 
of homemaking, 441 

High School library and Home Economics, 
118 

Highest education for women, I 

HiLiARD, C. E. Pasteurization as a public 
health measure, 307 

Hired men's meals, 552 

Home: Business of homemaking, 441; Es- 
sential questions, .S91; Home and the 
coaununity. 569; Significance of the 
home, 463 



682 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECX)N0MIC8 



[Deoanb«r 



Home and the community, 569 

Home demonstration work,* 161 

Home Economics: Development of Home 
Economics in social work, 68; Home 
Economics Correspondence courses of 
collegiate grade, 227; Home Economics 
Day, 1916, 592; Home Economics ex- 
hibit, 296; Home Economics in the De- 
troit schools, 479; International Office of 
Home Economics, 8, 371; International 
interests in Home Economics, 595; 
Standards for high school text-books in 
Home Economics, 349; Teachers' cot- 
tages and rural Home Economics, 109; 
What should general chemistry con- 
tribute to the Home Economics course?, 
173 

Home Economics at Pan American Con- 
gress,* 160 

Home Economics correspondence courses of 
collegiate grade, 227 

Home Economics Day, 1916, 592 

Home Economics exhibit, 296 

Home Economics in Oklahoma,* 461 

Home Economics in the Detroit schools, 479 

Homemade: Comment and discussion, 266, 
388; Comparative cost of homemade 
and baker's bread, 40; Comparative 
cost of home prepared and commercially 
prepared foods, 133; Editorial, 387; 
Homemade fly trap, 451; Iceless re- 
frigerator, 323; Ready-made and home- 
made clothing, 448; Some other ex- 
periments in comparative cost of home- 
made and baker's bread, 380; Water- 
works outfit for the home, 260 

Homemade fly trap, 451 

Homemaking, The business of, 441 

Home management: Business of homemak- 
ing, 441; Convenient kitchen, 493; 
Food selection for rational and eco- 
nomical living, 313; Household meas- 
urements, 202; New phase of extension 
work in the South, 536; Triumph of 
scientific housekeeping, 495 

Home nursing, 612 

Honey and its uses in the home, 87 

House decoration and furnishing: See House 
planning and furnishing 

House planning and furnishing, 219 

Housebold ammonia, 232 



Household chemical tests for textile fab- 
rics, 36 

Household measurements, 202 

Household refrigerator, 660 

Housekeepers Alliance, Washington, D. C.,* 
401 

Housekeeping centers: City Housekeeping 
Center, 417; Florida's first home dem- 
onstration center, 414 

How the soldiers of Europe are fed, 649 

Hunt, Caroline L. Practicable ways of 
increasing the iron content of the diet, 
584; Recipes for iron-rich dishes, 603 



Iceless refrigerator, 323 

Industrial and vocational training: Lux 

School, 170; N. S. P. I. E., 10; Resolu- 
tion, 188 
Inexpensive restaurants in Christiaiua and 

in Vienna, and a shop girls' restaurant 

in Copenhagen, 301 
Ingham, Edith. A new phase of extension 

work in the South, 536 
Institution Economic Section,* 341 
Institutions: Boston Students' Union, 475; 

Question Box, 658 
International episode, 371 
International interests in Home Economics, 

595 
International office of Home Economics, 8, 

371 
Is the grocer or the customer dishonest?, 499 



Johns Hopkins University,* 403 

JUDD, Maetha. Seeing molds grow, 491 



Kansas Home Economics Association,* 162 

Keating-Owen bill, 150 

Keen, Charlotte. Home Economics in 
the Detroit Schools, 479 

Keith, M. Helen. Vitamines or life pre- 
servers, 642. 

KiNNK, Helen. Terminology and the 
Smith-Hughes Bill, 186 

Kitchen: Convenient kitchen, 493; Houio- 
hold measurements, 202 



1916] 



INDEX TO VOLUME VHI 



683 



Lang, H. L. Cleaning silver by contact 
with aluminium in alkaline solution, 418 

Langworthy, C. F. Food selection for ra- 
tional and economical living, 313 

Lathrop, Julia. The highest education 
for women, 1 

Laundry-: Municipal laundry problem, 422; 
Washing and cleaning, 356 

Lee, Mrs. Charlotte. Evolutions of 
fashions of dress for women, 236 

Lewis Institute,* 105 

Library: Editorial, 667; High school library 
and Home Economics, 118; Making a 
home library, 597 

Living expenses of women students at the 
University of Illinois, 85 

Loganberries, 247 

LooMis, Alice. Home Economics corre- 
spondence courses of collegiate grade, 
227; The need of training teachers for 
extension education work, 78 

Lord, Isabel Ely. Costume in the cook- 
ery laboratory, 55 

Limch rooms: Application of statistics to 
budget making for lunch rooms, 19 

Luz School of Industrial Training, 170 



M 



MacKinnon, Jean G. ■ Household chemi- 
cal tests for textile fabrics, 36 

Making of a budget, 17 

Making of a home library, 597 

Mann, A. R. The home and the commun- 
ity, 569 

Markets: Municipal markets of the North- 
west, 343; Sanitation of food stores and 
markets, 577 

Marsh, Annabelle. The comparative 
costs of homemade and baker's bread, 
40 

Mar>'land Home demonstration confer- 
ence,* 338 

Mathematics applied to household arts, 521 

Meals, planning: .-\n adequate diet, 664; 
Calories in the edible portion of a num- 
ber of foods, 82; Food selection for ra- 
tional and economical living, 313; 
Fundamental basis of nutrition, 304; 



Mineral nutrients in practical dietetics, 
122; Triumph of scientific housekeep- 
ing, 495 
See also Diet 

Meeting at Urbana,* 337 

Meetings,* 108 

Menus. See Meals. 

Method of supporting financial records, 130 

Milam, Ava B. A unique college exhibit, 
238 

Miller, Elizabeth W. Solution of anti- 
mony from enameled cooking utensils, 
361 

Miller, Ethelwyn. House planning and 

furnishing, 219 
Milk: Pasteurization as a public health 

measure, 307; Pasteurizing cream, 132; 

Question box, 117; Ripening of cream, 

201; Standard for imported milk, 370; 

Study of condensed and evaporated 

milks, 29 

Mineral nutrient in practical human dietet- 
ics, 122 
Minneapolis luncheon,* 159 
Minnesota Home Economics Association,* 

52 
Missouri Home Economics Association,* 163 
Mitchell, D. E. A social welfare study, 

541 
Molds: Seeing molds grow, 491 
Monroe, Day. Some other experiments in 

the comparative cost of homemade and 

baker's bread, 380 
Municipal laundry problems, 422 
Municipal markets of the Northwest, 343 
Murphy, Eda Lord. Some suggestions as 

to domestic science equipment, 353 
Murtland, Cleo. Aims and work of the 

N. S. P. I. E.. 10 



N 



National American conference,* 217 

National child welfare,* 565 

National conference of charities and correc- 
tions,* 273, 402 

National conference on teaching for rural 
schools,* 53 

National Education Association,* 215, 406, 
511 



684 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



National Society for Promotion of Industrial 
Education, Aims and Work, 10; 53;* 
159* 

Need of juvenile placement departments, 
318 

Need of training teachers for extension edu- 
cation work, 78 

New departure in the teaching of sewing, 75 

New Mexico Normal University,* 162 

New phase of extension work in the South, 
536 

New phase of missionary preparation,* 275 

New York City public schools,* 462 

News from the field: 51, 103, 159, 215, 273, 
337, 401, 461, 511, 565, 619, 673 

Next generation,* 274 

Northwest,* 619 

Novelty versus quality, 191 

Nutrition: Daily questions that mothers 
should ask, 261; Fundamental basis of 
nutrition, 304; Mineral nutrients in 
practical human dietetics, 122; Recent 
work on normal adult nutrition, 623; 
Some recent contributions of bacteri- 
ology to the home, 635; Vitamines or 
life preservers, 642 
See also Diet 



Ohio Home Economics Association,* 103 
Ohio State University,* 340 
Old bake ovens in Pennsylvania, 347 
Omicron Nu*: Alpha Chapter, 621; Beta 

Chapter, 621 
Oregon State Agricultural College,* 276 
OsBORN'E, Mrs. Katharine: The Boston 
Students' Union, 475 



Pacific Conference,* 401 

Pageant, American's Gifts to the Old 

World,* 104 
Palmer, Mrs. Lizzie M.,* 567 
Partridge, Sarah Waring. Florida's first 

home demonstration center, 414 
Pasteurization as a public health measure, 

307 
Pasteurizing cream, 132 
Pastry, 189 



Peace prize contest,* 622 

Philadelphia (Pa.) Home Economics Asso- 
ciation,* 277, 566 

Philadelphia school luncheons,* "H 

Potato starch and its use in the home, 38 

Practicable ways of increasing the iron- 
content of the diet, 584 

Practice houses:* Stout Institute, 340; Uni- 
versity of Washington, 401 

Pratt Institute,* 105, 566 

Preston, Josephii^. Teachers' cottages 
and rural schools, 109 

Pritchett, Katharine A. The training 
of the county agent, 368 

Profits in commercial baking, and the 
housekeeper, 39 

Public health: Pasteurization as a public 
health measure, 307; Public health in 
the past and in the future, 513 
See also Sanitation. 

Public health in the past and in the future, 
513 

Public lectures on nutrition,* 274 



Quebec Homemakers' clubs,* 51; 567 
Question box: 117, 247, 329, 392, 611, 658 
Questionnaires,* 402 



R 



Railway demonstration train,* 54 
Ransom, Ruth. A city housekeeping 

center, 417 
Rations: How the soldiers of Europe are 

fed, 649 

Ready-made and homemade clothing, 448 

Recent work on normal adult nutrition, 623 

Recipes for iron-rich dishes, 603 

Red Cross dietitians,* 567 

Refrigerator: An iceless, 323; household, 660 

Rennet custard, the dish that makes itself, 

195 
Resolution passed February- 25, 1916, 188 
Restaurants: Ine.xpcnsive, in Christiania, 

Vienna and Copenhagen, 301 
Reynolds, Myra. The woman of to-day, 

191 
Richards. See Ellen H. Richakdc 



1916] 



INDEX TO VOLUME Vin 



685 



Richards Day at Ohio State University,* 

103 
Ripening of cream, 201 
Rural work: Home and the community, 

569; Question box, 658; Teachers' cot 

tages and rural home economics, 109 

See alsc Extension work 



Sanitary dishwashing, 83 

Sanitary flour bags*, 163 

Sanitation: Bacteria in the air, 41; Com- 
ment and discussion, 44; Homemade 
flytraps, 451; Pasteurization as a pub- 
lic health measure, 307; Sanitary dish- 
washing, 83; Sanitation of food stores 
and markets, 577; Some suggestions 
for fly control in the home, 197 
Su alio Public Health 

Sanitation of food stores and markets, 577 

Santa Barbara Normal School,* 512 

School: High school library and home eco- 
nomics, 118; Lux School of Industrial 
Training, 170; Some colored schools 
of the South, 588; Standard for high 
school textbooks in home economics, 
349; Training of high school teachers 
in an agricultural college, 180; Use of 
school rooms and equipment, 16 
See also Study and Teaching 

School lunch conference,* 461 

School of domestic arts and science in Chi- 
cago,* 339 

School of Home Economics, Battle Creek, 
Mich,* 568 

Sectional conference on Home Economics,* 
52 

Seeing molds grow, 491 

Self-supporting food department,* 403 

Seven textile fibers, 144 

Sewing. See Clothing, also Domestic Art 

Significance of the home, 463 

Silver, Cleaning by contact with aluminium 
in alkaline solution, 418 

Simmons College,* 161, 275 

Smith-Hughes Bill, 186, 241; Comment, 
328; Editorial, 505 

Snell, J. F. Household ammonia, 232 

Social science school,* 277 

Social welfare study, 541 



Social work: City housekeeping center, 417; 
Development of home economics in so- 
cial work, 68; Exhibit of instructive 
Wsiting housekeeping, ii; Home and 
the community, 569; Inexpensive res- 
taurants in Christiania and in Vienna, 
and a shop girls' restaurant in Copen- 
hagen, 301; Municipal laundry problem, 
422; Need of juvenile placement de- 
partments, 318; Social welfare study, 541; 
Some colored schools of the South, 588; 
Solution of antimony from enameled 
cooking utensils, 361 
See also Extension work 

Some colored schools of the South, 588 

Some other experiments in comparative 
cost of homemade and baker's bread, 
380 

Some recent contributions of bacteriology 
to the home, 635 

Some suggestions as to domestic science 
equipment, 353 

Some suggestions for fly control in the 
home, 197 

Some ways of using junket, 258 

South Carolina Home Economics Associa- 
tion,* 402 

Stammering and its correction in the home, 
606 

Standard for imported milk, 370 

Standardization of temperatures for cooking 
batters and doughs, 429 

Standards for high school textbooks in 
home economics, 349 

Stanley, Louise. A convenient kitchen, 
493; Standardization of temperatures 
for cooking batters and doughs. 429 

State College for Teachers, Albany,* 461 

State Interdenominational School of Mis- 
sions,* 403 

State Normal School, Harrisonburg,* 620 

Statistics, Application of, to budget making 
for lunch rooms, 19 

Steele, Clara M. Domestic art in the 
high school commercial course, 112 

Steiger, Kathardce French. The teach- 
ing of textiles in elementary schoola, 
297 

Stevenson, Bertha. Sanitary dishwaah- 
iDK, 83 



686 



THE JOURNAL OP HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Students: Boston Students' Union, 475; 
College girl's wardrobe, 189; Living 
expenses of women students at the 
University of Illinois, 85 

Study and Teaching: Cookery notebook, 
539; Costume appreciation, 288; Cos- 
tume in the cookery laboratory, 55; 
Domestic art in the high school com- 
mercial course, 112; Home economics 
correspondence courses of collegiate 
grade, 227; Home econcmics in the De- 
troit schools, 479; Mathematics applied 
to household arts, 521; New departure 
in the teaching of sewing, 75 ; Some sug- 
gestions as to domestic science equip- 
ment, 353; Standards for high school 
textbooks in home economics, 349; 
Teaching of textiles in elementar>' 
schools, 297; Training of high school 
teachers in an agricultural college, 180; 
What should general chemistry con- 
tribute to the home economics course?, 
173 

Study of condensed and evaporated milks, 
29 

Sumac and its uses, 132 

Swallow, Ernestine P. Children's Christ- 
mas giWng, 659; Some ways of using 
junket, 258 



Taylor, Lucy D. Costume appreciation, 
288 

Teachers and community well being, 279 

Teachers College,* 54, 565 

Teachers' cottages and rural home econom- 
ics, 109 

Teaching. See Study and Teaching 

Teaching of textiles in elementary schools, 
297 

Terminolog)' and Uie Smith-Hughes Bill, 
186 

Texas Home Economics Association,* 103 

Textile exhibition,* 217 

Textiles. See Clothing, also Domestic Art 

Thomas, Mrs. Edith M. Old bake ovens 
in Pennsylvania, 347 

Three women and a farm, 256 

Thrift by household accounting, 532 

TouPKiNS, Ernest. Stammering and its 
correction in the home, 606 



Training of high school teachers in an agri- 
cultural college, 180 
Training of the county agent, 368 
Treble, Mrs. Lillian,* 274 
Triumph of scientific housekeeping, 495 
Two cooperadve ventures, 554 



U 



Unique college exhibit, 238 

University of Illinois,* 107, 275 

University of Kansas,* 277 

University of Kentucky,* 619 

University of Nebraska,* 620 

University of Texas,* 276 

University cf Wisconsin,* 621 

Use of diabetic flours, 137 

Use of school rooms and equipment, 16 

Use of the thermometer in the cooking of 

soft custards, 178 
Utensils: Solution of antimony from rnam- 

eled cooking utensils, 361 



Vacation canning club,* 218 

Value of the woman of leisure, 407 

Van Arsdale, May B. Some other ex- 
periments in the comparative cost of 
homemade and baker's bread, 380 

Vaughn, Kate Brew. Some colored 
schools of the South, 588 

Visiting housekeeping: Exhibit of, 33; So- 
cial welfare study, 541 

Vitamines or life preservers, 642 

Vivian, Roxana. An application of statis- 
tics to budget making for lunch rooms, 
19 

Vocational Congress for high school girls,* 
107 

VoN Tungeln, George A. The teacher 
and community well-being, 279 

W 

W'age worth of school training, 438 

Wallace, May. Standardization of tem- 
peratures for cooking batters and 
doughs, 429 

Walton, C. V.. Jr. Cleaning silver with 
aluminium in alkaline solution, 418 

War and dietetics, 488J 



19161 



INDEX TO VOLUME VIII 



«T 



Washing and cleaning, 356 

Washington, D. C. Home Economics Asso- 
ciation,* 52 

Waterworks outfit for the home, 260 

What should general chemistry contribute 
to the home economics course?, 173 

Wheeler, Ruth. The war and dietetics, 
4S8 

Whittelsey, Anna H. Fredrick Accum 
and his writings on food chemistry, 
653 

WiLKiNS, Janet. A city housekeepmg 
center, 417 



WiLLLAjJs, Anna W. The use of the ther- 
mometer in the cooking of soft custards 
178 

Wilson, G. M. The training of high school 
teachers in an agricultural college, 180 

WiNSLow, C.-E. A. Public health in the 
past and in the future, 513 

WiNSLOw, Emma A. Thrift by household 
accounting, 532 

WooLMAN, Mary Scdenck. The Smith- 
Hughes BQl, 241; Wage worth of 
school training, 438 

Woman of today, 191 



TX Journal of home economics 

1 

J7 

V.8 

Food 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



