TX 728 
.W3 
Copy 1 




Attractive Menus 



BY 

HARRIET WARNER 

Bay City, Mchigan 



PRICE $2.00 



COPYRIGHT 1916 

H, D. FORSYTH. BAY CITY. MICHIGAN 



.W3 



We t'jiii live without fi'iends, 
We can live without books, 

But civilized men 

Canuot live without cooks. 

— Lord Lytton. 



4^ 



JUNI2I9I6 ©CI.A4314T5 



Introduction. 



This book has been wi-itteii because we are aware of the per- 
l)lexities which face the woman of today, (particularly in places 
Avhei'e the services of a catei-er cannot be obtained), when she 
undei'takes to entertain hei- friends at breakfast, luncheons and 
dinners, and desires to serve something out of the ordinaT-y ; even 
what she may glean from magazines is perhaps copied by her 
neighbors, and every up-to-date woman wants something dif- 
ferent. 

That the hostess herself must probably prepare the meal 
without the help of a maid has also been considered, and the 
I'ecipes we have chosen are designed to make its preparation as 
easy as possible. ]\fany of them can be prepared the day before. 

A hostess is judged to a cei'tain extent by the kind of food 
she provides. Certain things are good at certain times with 
some combinations, and very much out of place with others. 

THE TABLE. 

Have your dining room table tastefully ari-anged with snoA\' 
white linen, propei- napkins for each meal (many people are now 
using luncheon or breakfast sets, which are perfectly proper) but 
pure white linen is always good taste. 

Flowers are very effective, but, if used, choose the colors 
carried out in youi- menu. 

We will be glad to design special centerpieces for you for 
any special function at a very small cost. 

To set the table properly, fii-st lay the silence pad, then the 
table cloth perfectly even. 

Small tables may be used for large gatherings if desired. 

On the right of plate place knives in order to be used, edges 

turned toward the ])late, the soup spoon and teaspoons at right 
of knife.. 

3 



It is very good taste to lay silver as each course is served, 
but most Avomen prefer to lay all at once, removing tiie used sil- 
ver after each course. 

At the left of plate, place forks, tines up, in the order to l)e 
used ; the napkin at left of forks. Place glass at right just above 
the knife, and if bread and butter plate is to be used, place nt 
left just above the foi-ks. The favors and place cards directly 
in front of plate. 

If a family meal, usually the hostess sits at the head of table, 
with the host at the foot, the other members of family occupying 
seats at sides. 

When a guest is a lady, she occupies the seat at left of t'.ie 
host ; if a gentlenmn, the one at the right of hostess. 

SERVING. 

If the hostess has no maid, she may perhaps be able to get a 
couple of friends to aid her in serving a number of guests. 

You pei'haps already know that every dish placed in fi-ont 
of guests should be placed from their right ; things passed by 
waitei' always served at their left. 

GARNISHING. 

A few suggestions might be in place right here in i-egards 
to garnishing dishes. 

A few sprigs of parsley always being coi-rect with any meat 
oi- fruit. 

If you are in doubt as to what is proper, remember this rule : 
Let the garnishing be something which would be apt to be served 
M'ith the main ingredient of salad, if that ingi-edient wei-e served 
in some other way. 

Pickles or lemons are very good in a fisli salad, and celery 
and olives in a salad containing chicken. 

We furnish special menus for any bridal, any holiday, oi" cliil- 
dren's parties in any colors desired, at a small expense to you. 

4 



M 



enus. 

BREAKFASTS 

A hostess luav alv.ays be able to serve fruit as some sort is 
always pro('ura])]e dui-ing the entire yeai'. After the course 
which you would serve on individual plate from pei'haps a basket 
in center of table — using' fruit knives — sei've a cereal, then eggs 
or meat if preferred, with i-olls, gems oi- toast, and a cup of tea, 
coifee or cocoa, always having everything hot and tasty. 

BREAKFAST NO. 1. 

GRAPE FRUIT 

FLAKES 

GOLDEN GLOW OMELET WHEAT MUFFINS 

TEA, COFFEE OR COCOA 

Grape Fruit. 

rii-ape fruit cut in halves; loosen from skin by scissors all 
sections, and place on plates v.ith bits of fii-m jelly, sprinkle with 
sugar and chill before serving. 

The flakes may be of your own choosing, but they must be 
(M-isp. Serve with cream. These may be served by hostess from 
her place at table if desii-ed. 

Golden Glow Omelet. 

To serve six people. Break eight eggs, yolks and whites 
separately, beating yolks well and whites until stiff. Make a cup 
of thick white sauce, using one tablespoon of tiour to a good cu]) 
of milk and two tablespoons of butter, cool, add to this the yolks, 
whites and a small teaspoon of baking powder. Season well, put 
into a buttered bake dish and bake about twenty minutes or un- 
til set and slightly browned. This may be served by host. 

Wheat Muffins. 

One egg, one pint sweet milk, one-half teaspoon of salt, two 
teaspoons of sugar, two and one-half teasjioons of Royal l)aking 



powder, four cups Avhole wheat floui'. Bake about fifteen min- 
utes. 

BREAKFAST NO. 2. 

CANTALOUPE 

PANNED CHOPS CREAMED POTATOES 

PALM BEACH ROLLS 

COFFEE, TEA OR COCOA 

Cantaloupe. 

Select firm ripe fruit, chill thoroughly, cuttino' in halves, 
served individually with salt or sugar as one prefei's. 

Panned Chops. 

Trim and ^^'ipe small chops. Heat fi-ying pan until it smokes 
all over. Rub bottom with a bit of fat, lay chops in and turn 
every ten seconds, keeping pan very hot. Season when ])artiy 
done. Serve on hot platter. 

Creamed Potatoes. 
Make a cream sauce by I'ubbing two tablespoons flour into 
two tablespoons of butter and adding gradually t^o eui)s of 
cream. Add diced potatoes and season Avell. 

Palm Beach Rolls. 

Two cups pasti-y flour, two teaspoons of Baking powdci-, 
two teaspoons of sugar, one-half teaspoon of salt, two tablespoons 
of butter, and two-thirds cup of sweet milk. Mix as foi' biscuit, 
roll to one-third inch thickness, cut with round oi' oval cntte'-. 
Crease through centei- with the end of caseknife, dipped in flour. 
Brush one-half with butter and fold over. Bake fifteen niinnto.-; 
in (juick oven. 

BREAKFAST NO. 3. 

ORANGE DELIGHT 

DATE CEREAL * 

BROILED SALT MACKEREL POTATO FONDUE 

TOAST AND COFFEE 

Orange Delig-ht. 

Cut oi-anges in halves, loosen uj) pulp to which add small 
pieces of gi-ape-fi-uit, a few nuts, if desii-ed, and a cheri-y. Sweet- 
en to taste. Serve individually, using orange spoons. 

6 



Date Cereal. 
CV)ok one cup of cream of wheat in about a quart of water, 
add salt, and Avhen nearly ready to serA^e, add one-half cup of 
chopped dates. Serve with cream and su«;ai'. 

Broiled Salt Mackerel. 

Select a larj^e thick mackerel, cut off head and tail, and put 
in a lars'e pan, skin side up. Cover with cold watei' and set in 
cool place foi' thirty-six hours. When ready to cook, wipe dry, 
grease a wire broiler, lay on fish and broil over coals on flesh 
side until nearly done, then a minute or two on skin side. If you 
have no coals, bake in oven for twenty minutes. Garnish with 
onions and hai'd-boiled eggs and dot with ])lenty of butter, add 
a little lemon juice and serve hot. 

Potato Fondue. 

Add some cream to the cold potatoes, and heat, then beat 
until very light ; add the yolk of an egg, also the Avhite beaten 
stiff, separately. Put in casserole and cover with a half cup of 
cream and sprinkle with dry bread crumbs. Bake about fifteen 
minutes. 

BREAKFAST NO. 4. 

STRAWBERRIES IN BASKETS 

BROILED BACON AND EGGS GRAHAM MUFFINS 

PARAMOUNT FRIED CAKES 

COFFEE 

Strawberries in Baskets. 
Prepare bei'ries as for ordinary sei'ving. Heat shredded 
Avheat biscuit in oven befoi'e using, cut out o))long cavity to form 
baskets, fill with berries and serve Avith cream. Sweeten to taste. 
You may use any othei- fruit if desired. 

Broiled Bacon. 

Have i)an hot, keep tui-ning trimmed bacon until browned 
and done. Lay on center of hot platter. (Jai-nish with eggs 
fried in the bacon grease and pai'sley. 

7 



Graham Muffins. 

One cup graham oi- entire wheat floui". One eup flour, one- 
fourth eup sugar, teaspoon of salt, one cup sweet milk, one egq;, 
one tablespoon of melted butter, three and one-half teaspoons 
Royal baking powder. Mix and sift dry ingredients, add milk 
very gradually, the egg well beaten and melted butter. Bake in 
hot oven, in buttered gem pans. 

Paramount Fried Cakes. 

Two eggs, beaten light, seven level tablespoons of sugar, sev- 
enteen tablespoons sweet milk, two tablespoons melted buttei*. 
salt, one quart flour, thi-ee teaspoons of baking powder, cut witb 
small round cuttei", not over two inches in diameter. Fi-y in 
deep fat and roll in powdered sugar. These are also delicious 
for afternoon teas. 

BREAKFAST NO. 5. 

WENONAH APPLES 

CREAM OAT MEAL 

BOILED EGGS CINNAMON TOAST 

COFFEE 

Wenonah Apples. 

Cut out cores from nice firm apples, but do not peal. North- 
ern Spies are vei-y good. Fill center with brown sugar, butter 
and little cinnamon, cook until well done ])ut do not let fall to 
pieces. Serve cold with a spoonful of ^^•hipped cream to which 
you may add a nut or cheri-y. 

Boiled Eggs. 
Pour boiling water over eggs and set on back of stove for 
seven minutes, oi- soft boiled for three minutes. 

Cinnamon Toast. 

Toast bread cai-efully and butter. Keep hot. Take one cup 
of sugar, one-half cup of water and one rounding teaspoon of 
cinnamon, cook until it hairs. Spread over the toast while hot. 
This is delicious for aftenioon teas. 

8 



LUNCHEON NO. 1. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP 

CROUTONS 

BAKED HAM (SOUTHERN STYLE) WITH AUNT ELLA'S MUSTARD 

DUCHESSE POTATOES SWEET POTATO CONES 

ROYAL PALM SALAD SPANISH WAFERS 

PEACH CUSTARD COFFEE 

Cream Tomato Soup. 

One pint tomatoes, one teaspoon of salt, one-half saltspoon 
of white pepper, one-half teaspoon of soda, one tablespoon of 
corn starch, one-third cup of buttei-, one quart of milk. Add soda 
and seasoning to tomatoes when boiling, add corn starch wet Avith 
cold water and boil ten minutes. Strain and add Mith the butter 
to the milk all ready heated in a double boiler. Beat thoroughly 
and serve at once. Serve with spoonful of whipped cream on 
Avhich sprinkle paprika. This quantity will serve eight people. 
Croutons should be served with this. 

Southern Baked Ham, 

Boil a Swift's Premium ham oi- a good one having at least 
one inch of fat on outside, until vei-y tender, boiling .slowly. 
AVhen well done, remove from water, remove skin and sprinkle 
with brown sugar, a few bi-ead crund)s, and press cloves into the 
fat part. Bake until nicely browned in oven. A tenpound ham 
will serve fifty people. 

Aunt Ella's Mustard. 

Three level tablespoons of mustai-d, one teaspoon of sugar, 
one-half teaspoon salt. Mix and add a beaten egg. After mixing 
until smooth, add three-fourths of a cup of weak vinegar and 
cook in a double boiler until thick. 

Duchesse Potatoes. 
Peal potatoes and chop in wooden bowl with chopping knife 
to cubes a trifle larger than good sized peas. Put in dish and 
cover with cream and a little milk. Foi- a lai-ge dish, use at least 

9 



a quart of cveani having- liquid cover potatoes fully one inch. 
Season well until milk is a little more salty than you like. Cover 
well and cook two houi-s, then place on back of stove until ready 

to serve. 

Sweet Potato Cones. 

Select long, straight sweet potatoes, pai-e and cut in halves 

crosswise, making two cones about three or thi-ee and one-half 

inches long. Boil in salt water until they can be pierced with 

fork, then roll in granulated sugar and fry in butter on all sides 

until a golden brown. Serve with cone standing on its base, one 

for each plate. 

Royal Palm Salad. 

One-half dozen oranges, three grape fruit, one-half pound 
soft marshmallows, (luai'tered with scissors. Ari-ange in indi- 
vidual moulds, over which pour lemon jello to cover. When 
ready to sei've, turn out on leaf of head lettuce. Add a large 
teaspoon of our ci-eain salad dressing and gaiMiish with chopped 

nut meats. 

Queen Cream Salad Dressing'. 

Two tablespoons Hour, two tablespoon:; butter. IMix to- 
gether and heat in double boiler and add one cup of milk. Stir 
together three tablespoons of sugar, one teaspoon of dry mustard, 
salt and pepper, tAvo eggs, two-thirds of a. cu]) of vinegai-, and 
fill cup with watei-. Add to heated mixture, and cook until thick. 
Beat until cold. In serving add whip])ed cream. 

Peach Custard. 

Make one crust as for lemon pie, fill with peaches cut fine 

(canned ones may be used if desired) ])our ovei- this a sweetened 

custard made with milk and eggs. ("ovei- all with whipped 

cream. Cut as you would any pie. 

10 



LUNCHEON NO. 2. 

GRAPEFRUIT COCKTAIL 
CHICKEN A LA PARAMOUNT PARKER HOUSE POTATOES 

FRENCH PEAS 
HEARTS EASE SALAD 

NUT BREAD HEARTS 
OLIVES CELERY 

QUEEN LOUISE DESSERT 

Grapefruit Cocktail. 

Scoop out j?rape fruit with teaspoon, having pulp very fine. 
Quarter niarshiiiallows, cover with juice of fruit and let stand 
three hours. Chill and serve in glasses with cubes of red jelly. 
Season with sugar to taste. 

Chicken a la Paramount. 

Dress, clean and truss a four-pound chicken. Place it on a 
trivet in a kettle, half surrounded with boiling water and let 
cook slowly until tender, occasionally turning the bird. Add salt 
Avhen partly cooked. Remove the fowl and chill stock and re- 
move all cakes of fat. Melt two tablespoons of butter or the 
chicken fat, add one and one-half tablespoons corn starch and 
stir until smooth, then pour on gradually while stirring three- 
fourths of a cup of the stock, one-fourth cup cream and one-half 
cup milk. Bring to the boiling point and season with salt and 
paprika. Xow add one cup of cold Avhite meat cut in cubes, one- 
half cup of peeled and sliced mushroom cups (sauted in one ta- 
blespoon buttei- two minutes) and one-fourth cup canned pi- 
mento. Again heat and just before serving add three table- 
spoons of butter and the .volk of one ef^g slightly beaten. This is 
nice to serve from a chafing dish. 

Parker House Potatoes. 

Cook potatoes Jind mash adding cream, but do not make too 
moist; season well and let cool slightly. To one (piart of pota- 
toes add one egs: well beaten and mould into i-olls about two and 

11 



one-half inches lono- and one and one-half inches thick. Bi-ush 
top with egg, well beaten, place on buttered pan and bake in oven 
about fifteen minutes or until well heated through and nicely 
browned. Place on phite with twig of parsley pressed in top. 

French Peas. 

One can of peas, from which drain off air liquor and heat in 
a cream sauce made of one cup cream or rich milk, salt, pepper, 
and tablespoon of butter and thickened with one teaspoon of 
corn starch dissolved in a little milk. Serve in ramkins. 

Heart's Ease Salad. 

Take small head lettuce, cut in two crossAvise, place on let- 
tuce leaf, garnish top with pimentos chopped very fine and serve 
with the cream salad dressing. 

Nut Bread Hearts. 

Tavo and one-half cups white floui-, two and one-half tea- 
spoons Royal baking powder, one spoon of salt, one-half cup 
white sugar, three-fourths cup of walnut meats chopped very 
fine, one egg, one cup sweet milk. Sift all dry ingredients to- 
gether three times, add nut meats and then milk to which ])eateii 
e^^ has been added. Beat well and bake one hour. Cut in thin 
slices and make heart shape with cutter. Cover with following 
dressing: One package dates chopped, one-half package raisins 
chopped, one-half cup sugar. Cook until thick and serve cold, 
covering bread. Garnish each piece with a red maraschino chei-ry. 
This will serve twenty i)eople. 

Queen Louise Dessert. 

A sunshine cake made in round angel food mould. Ti-im out 
center Avith a sharp knife until space will take in a pint of Holly 
ice cream frozen solid. Cover Avhole with Avhipped cream, slight- 
ly sweetened and serve at once. We always use our Queen Louise 
cake for this delicious dessert. 

12 



LUNCHEON NO. 3. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL 
VERMILLION VEAL ESCALLOPED POTATOES 

SPANISH CORN 

FINGER ROLLS JELLY 

PEARSHING SALAD 

WAFERS 

^^^^ HOLLY ICE CREAM COFFEE 

Oyster Cocktail. 

Sei-ve in siuall glasses, five oysters to a glass. Cover with 
sauce below: One can tomatoes, one teaspoon pepper, one tea- 
spoon mustard, one-fourth teaspoon cinnamon, one-fourth tea- 
spoon allspice, one-half tablespoon salt, one-half cup vinegar. 
Cook slowly two hours and rub through sieve. In serving add a 
little chopped celery or grated horseradish. Chill well. 

Tomato catsup may be used instead of this sauce as given. 
Vermillion Veal. 

T^se veal steak. Cut in squares, breading each on all sides 
l)y dipping in beaten egg and rolling in fine bread crumbs. Place 
in pan, season, add l)utter and a little water. Cover and cook 
sloMJy in oven one hour. Brown the last fifteen minutes. 

Escalloped Potatoes. 

Peel potatoes and slice thin. Grease a pan and put in a laver 
of potatoes and season with salt, pepper and bits of butter- 
sprnikle with fiour. Then another layer of potatoes and season 
as befoi-e, contnuie until pan is nearly filled, then add rich milk 
or cream until it can be seen at sides and cover all with shredded 
wheat biscuit ci-umbs, and a few bits of butter. Bake one hour. 

Spanish Corn. 

:\relt four tablespoons of butter, add five tablespoons fioui-, 
one and one-half cups milk, one and one-half teaspoons salt,' 
three-fourths teaspoon of mustard. Add one-fourth can pimen- 



13 



tos and green peppers chopped fine, one can corn, one egg, three 
teaspoons Worcestershire sauce. Cover with bread crumbs and 
bake until brown, or serve in ramkins or scallop shells. 

Pearshing- Salad. 

Drain the juice fi-om one can of Bartlett pears, cut length- 
wise and arrange in salad plate. Fill centers with walnut meats 
and malaga grapes mixed with mayonaise dressing. Garnish 
Avith heart leaves of lettuce. Serve with toasted -wafers. 

Holly Ice Cream. 

(See recipe. Dinner No. 2.) 

LUNCHEON NO. 4. 

CHERRY COCKTAIL 

SOUP A LA SAN RECEPTION FLAKES 

ALASKAN SALMON LOAF POTATO NESTS 

BERLIN SALAD 

MARSHMALLOW DELIGHT 

Cherry Cocktail. 

Select large lemons and from pointed end of each cut off a 
slice to form a lid for cup. With a sharp pointed spoon remove 
all jiulp and juice fi-om inside of each lemon and put in ice box 
until ready to serve. 

Stone and bruise as many ripe chei'i-ies as are needed, chop 
fine and add a tal)lespoon of lemon juice to each cup of cheri-ies 
and sweeten to taste. Strain or not as preferred. Serve in the 
lemon cups in a cii-cle of water-cress with a garnish of whole 
cherries on the stem. Large cherry currants may be used in same 

May. 

Soup a la San 

One cup fresh lettuce chopped fine in meat chopper. Heat 
three pints milk to boiling point, and thicken Avith one tablespoon 
flour robbed smooth with cold milk. Add one teaspoon salt and 
lettuce and heat again to boiling point. Add one tablespoon but- 

14 



ter after taking- from stove. Spinach or asparagus may be used 
instead of lettuce. 

Alaskan Salmon Loaf. 

One can salmon; remove all skin and bones. Three eggs 
beaten light, one cup bread crumbs, one cup milk, four table- 
spoons of melted butter. Season with salt and pepper. Mix well 
and steam one-half hour. 

Potato Nests. 

jNIash potatoes, add chopped pimentos to peas, cream and 
serve with a spoonful of this in center of potato mound. 

Berlin Salad. 

Fry six slices of bacon chopped fine until crisp ; add to this 
one-half cup of vinegar, one teaspoon of sugar, and one table- 
spoon of lemon juice. Shred one head of red cabbage and pour 
the liquid over it. Serve on a crisp lettuce leaf. 

Marshmallow Delight. 

Add pinch of salt to whites of three eggs and l)eat until very 
stiff. Then add one tablespoon of Knox gelatine dissolved in one- 
half cup of cold water, beating a little of it into the eg-gs at a 
time, then slowly l)eat in one-half cup granulated sugar and one 
teaspoon of vanilla. Now take out one-third of batter and to this 
add red fruit coloring and a half dozen maraschino cherries 
chopped fine. Put together in deep dish in layers, red in center 
and between each layer sprinkle chopped nuts. Serve with whip- 
ped cream or sauce made fi'om yolks of eggs. Set pudding in 
icebox to chill. 

Pudding- Sauce. 

Heat one and one-half cups of milk; add one-half cup sugar 
and pinch of salt. Beat the yolks of the three eggs, add a little 
milk and add to hot milk. Cook until it thickens slightly. Serve 
cold. 

15 



LUNCHEON NO. 5 

GRAPE FRUIT IN HALF SHELL OR FRUIT COCKTAIL 

VEAL HEART AND COLD TONGUE 

CREAMED POTATOES JELLY 

ROSE SALAD TOASTED CHEESE WAFERS 

WENONAH SHERBET 

CAKE COFFEE 

Grapefruit in Half Shell. 

Cut fruit iu halves ; remove pulp in small pieces with spoon, 
cut out all sections from skin and till half with bits of yrapefi'uit 
mixed with white lii-apes seeded and halved. 

Fruit Cocktail. 

Remove pulp from three large naval oranges, and mix light- 
ly with one-half cup of shredded pineapple and the same amount 
of sliced strawberries, and set on ice until thoroughly chilled. In 
the meantime boil one cupful of water, one cupful of sugar, and 
one-half cupful of lemon juice foi- ten minutes, then strain ; add 
three tablespoonfuls of other fruit juice and chill also. ('ond:)ine 
the fruit and syru]) and serve eithei* in orang'e shells oi- in dainty 

cocktail glasses. 

Veal Heart and Cold Tongue. 

Cook hearts until tender, seasoning well, when cold slice thin. 
Wash clean the beef tongue, put in kettle with water to covei*. 
Add plenty of salt antl small pod of i-ed pepper. Boil very slowly. 
Keep covered until tongue is nearly done. Let cook until it can 
be pierced easily with foi-k. Do not peal until wanted for table. 
Soak salt tongue over night, omitting salt when cooking. 

Cream Potatoes. 

Cut boiled potatoes in cubes. Make sauce as follows: To 
one tablespoon of tlour creamed Avith one tablespoon of buttej", 
add one cup of cream and cook until thick, stirring constantly. 
Add the potato cubes and season well and let heat thoroughly. 

Rose Salad. 
One can of sliced pineapple, four oi-anges, t^'o gi-apefruit, 

16 



one package lemon jello. (Ait up oranges and grapefruit and put 
in individual moulds in which has been placed a flower cut from 
pimento with a lengthwise slice of olive for stem. Pour jello 
Avhen beginning to set (or cool) over the fruit, covering well. 
Set on ice to cool. Serve on lettuce leaf and slice of pineapple. 
Serve dressing in mayonnaise dish so as not to cover this beau- 
tiful salad. 

Toasted Cheese Wafers. 

Take thin slices of bread, spread with a little butter, sprinkle 
with grated cheese. Make into sandAviches. Toast on both sides 
slowly to thoroughly melt cheese. 

Wenonah Sherbet. 

Three oranges, three lemons, three bananas, three cups sugar, 
one cup cream, five cups milk. Mash bananas, add sugar, then 
oi-ange juice, then the lemon juice last. Add milk and freeze. 
Serve a sunshine cake Avith this, oi' if you have our cake book, 
use the Queen Louise cake. 

17 



DINNER NO. 1. 

CONSOMME PATTI 

OLIVES CELERY 

BAKED LAKE TROUT WITH HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 

SAUTI POTATOES 

WENONA CAPON CRANBERRY SAUCE 

MASHED POTATOES 

STRINGED BEANS ASPARAGUS 

SALAD MILANAISE SALTED WAFERS 

PALMETTO PUDDING 

COFFEE 

Consomme Patti. 

A clear beef soup, clarify Avith beaten white of egg. Strain 
and serve with a little cooked rice. Cubes of chicken and peas 
cooked and added after soup is strained. 

Baked Lake Trout. 

Three pounds trout. Do not remove head. Wash, Avipe dry 
and roll in wet salted napkin. DRESSING : One cup cracker 
crumbs, one-half teaspoon salt, one-quarter teaspoon pepper, one 
tablespoon chopped onion, one tablespoon parsley, one tablespoon 
capers, one tablespoon chopped sour pickle. Mix thoroughly, 
stuff fish and sew up. Cut deep gashes doAvn back and lard with 
strips of fat salt pork. Bake forty minutes in hot oven and serve 
with Hollandaise sauce. 

HoUandaise Sauce. 

Two talilespoons butter, one egg, one-fourth teaspoon salt, 
three shakes pepper, juice of one lemon, one-half cup boiling 
water. Thicken over boiling water. 

Sauti Potatoes. 

Cold boiled potatoes sliced thin and In-owned in l)ntter. 
Don't break. 

18 



Wenonah Capon. 

Boil chicken ; when cold cut in small pieces, add about one- 
half pound of sweet bi-eads which have been well soaked and 
cooked for about five minutes. Make a ^ravy of four table- 
spoons butter, five tablespoons flour, and one quart hot cream 
(part milk may be used). Pour over chicken and sweet breads to 
which one cup of mushrooms cooked in their own liquor has been 
added. Season with salt, pepper, onion juice and nutmeg. INIix 
well, put in baking dish, cover with bread crumbs, bits of buttoi-, 
and bake about twenty minutes or until brown. 

String Beans. 

These are very delicious cut up and cooked in chicken broth. 
Season well. 

Asparagus Tips. 

Cook tendei' in salt watei- and drain well. Pom- over them 
drawn butter sauce as follows: Three tablespoons butter 
creamed with one of flour, over which pour boiling water until 
11k' thickness of thick cream. Season. 

Salad Milanaise. 

Mix one heaping tablespoon sugar, one teaspoon mustard, 
one-half teaspoon salt, a very little paprika and cayenne. Blend 
thoroughl.v. Melt one tablespoon butter, add it slowly to the 
well-beaten yolks of two eggs, with the seasoning one-third cup 
vinegar, two-thirds cup milk. Cook in double boilei-, stirring 
constantly until thick. Remove from fire, beat a moment with 
e^^ beater, and add slowly one cup of stiffly Avhipped ci-eam. 
Cut in pieces one-half of a pineapple, two bananas, three oranges, 
and a small bottle of maraschino cherries. Mix the fi'uit togeth- 
ei", drain and mix with the pi-epared di-essing. Pour in a brick 
mould with a water-tight cover and buiy in ice and I'ock salt for 
four hours. To serve, unmould, cut in slices and arrange on let- 
tuce leaves. 

Palmetto Dessert. 

Allow three figs for each portion, wash, cut out stem end. 

19 



Place in double boiler or tireless cooker one hour until thoroughly 
hea+ed. Arrange the hot figs in individual dessert dishes, around 
a central small mould of orange cubes, skinned and sprinkled 
with sugar. Border with whipped cream, sweetened and slight- 
ly flavored with orange juice. 

DINNER NO. 2. 

OYSTERS ON HALF SHELL 

DUCHESSE SOUP SALTED ALMONDS 

SALMON ROSETTES LATTICED POTATOES 

ROAST SIRLOIN OF BEEF WITH BROWNED POTATOES 

TURNIP SURPRISE MACARONI AND CHEESE 

ALEXANDRIA SALAD 

HOLLY ICE CREAM 
WAFERS COFFEE CAKE 

Duchesse Soup. 

One (juai-t of milk, two onions, two tablespoons butter, two 
tablespoons of flour, two tablespoons grated cheese, salt and pep- 
per. Put milk on to boil. Fry butter and onions together, add 
dry flour and cook two minutes longer, being careful not to 
l)urn. Stir into the milk and cook two minutes; rub through 
sti-ainei- and retui-n to fire. Now add cheese and season to taste 
with salt and pepper. Heat one egg, then Vvith two tablespoons 
of liquid, and ])our into the soup slowly, stiri-ing all the time. 
Do not boil again but let stand three minutes when it is hoi. 

Salted Almonds. 

Take nut iiients, blanch, cook in olive oil until a golden \}vn\\ ii 
and si)i'ead ui)on a pa])ei' and sprinkle with salt. 

Salmon Rosettes. 
One can of salmon. Pick out bones, rinse can with a little 
water and use as juice. Salt and pepper to taste. Roll about 
twenty crackei's, then mix with salmon. Stir in the beaten yolk 
of one e^^. Make into small cakes and dip in l)eaten \\hite of 
egg. Koll in ci-ackei* crumbs and fry in butter. 

20 



Latticed Potatoes. 

Select potatoes of equal size and shape. Wash and scrub 
them and then slice on vegetable slicer. Drop at once into cold 
water foi- a little time, t/.cn put them into fi'esh watei* with a 
piece of ice until thorou, lily chilled. Di'ain a few of the slices 
at a time, pat dry on a napkin, put in a fryina^ hasket and im- 
mersed in boiling hot fat. Drain, s])rinkle with salt and pepper. 
Serve hot with fish. 

Roact Sirloin of Beef. 

Get a large sirloin roast, the lai-ger the better. Place in bake 
pan and cover with small thin slices of suet, put in a hot oven, 
gi'adually reducing the heat after it is well heated thi-ough, bake 
until tender. Season and serve on large platter, and garnish 
with potatoes baked with meat and spi'igs of parsley. 

Turnip Surprise. 

Select a large, firm, yellow tui-nip. Wash, pai-e and cut in 
strips two inches long and a quarter of an inch wide. Soak foi- 
some time in cold water. Drain and cook gently in boiling, salted 
water until tender. The pieces should retain their shapes, so the 
water must not boil hai-d. Drain, add butter, pepper and salt 
to taste. Now fry slices of bacon, diced, until crisp, but do not 
brown ; then pour content;; of the pan over the tui'nips, cover 
«nd shake the kettle gently so that the bacon flavor may get into 
evevy piece. 

Macaroni and Cheese. 

Put macaroni into I'apidly boiling salted water and boil 
about twenty minutes, then drain in colander and pour cold water 
over it to remove pastiness. Reheat in a white, brown or tomato 
sauce. Before sending to table sprinkle thickly with grated 
cheese or stir cheese through it. 

The Alexandra Salad. 

Allow a hard head of lettuce for each person to be served. 
Take off all the green outei* leaves, then with a shai-p knife cut 
■out the very heart of lettuce leaving a nest. Put into this holloAV 

21 



first a layer of crisp celery, cut in short pieces and shredded fine. 
On this foundation lay pieces of the grapefruit pulp until the 
cavity is filled. On top lay four fresh cherries, or if necessary 
the preserved ones, and over the whole pour a light French salad 
dressing. 

Holly Ice Cream. 

Beat three eggs until very light, add one-half cup flour wet 
with milk and one cup sugai-. Heat one quart milk in double 
boiler and add above and cook until it thickens. Let cool, add 
one pint cream and one more cup sugar and one teaspoon vanilla. 
Strain and fr-eeze. Served with sponge cake or we use our Queen 

Louise cake. 

DINNER NO. 3. 

FRUIT COCKTAIL 

CLAM SOUP CROUTONS 

PORTERHOUSE STEAK A LA MUSHROOM 

POTATO ON HALF SHELL 

HOLLAND BEETS SQUASH IN SHELL 

SHRIMP SALAD TOASTED CRACKERS 

HAMILTON FROZEN PUDDING 

Fruit Cocktail. 

Five Greening apples, three oranges, two and one-half ta- 
blespoons sugar. Remove pulp from oranges and put in l)()\vl. 
Pare apples and cut in small cubes i-ight over orange pulp as tlie 
orange juice keeps it from turning dark. Add sugai' and mix 
lightly with a foi'k, chill thoroughly before serving. (Jarnish 
with candied cherries. 

Clam Soup. 

Thirty-six clams chopped fine, one and one-half pints Avater 
using clam liquid as far as it will go. One pint milk, four table- 
spoons floui", four tablespoons butter, three well-beaten eggs, salt 
and pepper. Boil clams thi-ee minutes and remove. Add butter, 
fioui- and milk; let just boil up. The last thing l)efoi'e serving, 
add eggs. 

22 



Croutons. 

Cut stale bread in one-thii'd inch slices and i-eniove crnst ; 
spread a little bnttei- on each piece, then cut slices in one-thii-d 
inch cubes, put in a pan and bake until a very liiiht brown. Serve 
with the clam soup. 

Porterhouse Steak a la Mushroom. 

Have thick cut of tender steak, trim and bi'oil or fry until 
done, turning' every ten seconds. Remove to hot platter. Add 
one can of button mushrooms (this amount for about two pounds 
of meat) to grease in pan, two cups of rich milk and thicken to 
about consistency of thick cream. Season and poui- over steak. 

Potato on Half Shell. 

Select medium sized potatoes; wash, using a vegetable brush. 
Bake in hot oven from thirty to forty minutes or until soft. Re- 
move from oven, cut a slice from top of each and scoop out the 
inside. Mash, add two tablespoons melted buttei-, two table- 
spoons of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper and six table- 
spoons hot cream. Now add the beaten yolks of two eggs or the 
stiffly beaten whites of two eggs. Refill the skins and bake foi- 
five minutes in a hot oven. Brush potatoes with beaten egg or 
melted butter and sprinkle with finely chopped parsley. 

Holland Beets. 

Tavo bunches of beets, one tablespoon buttei', one cupful 
bouillon or boiling water, one tablespoonful flour, two oi' three 
tablespoons vinegar, two tablespoons cream. Wash beets, cook in 
])oiling watei" until done. Remove skins, cool and chop fine. 
Brown the butter and flour very slightly in saucepan, stii'i'ing 
constantly to keep mixture smooth. (Jradually add warm bouil- 
lon or boiling Avater and vinegar to taste. Put in beets and let 
all come to a boil. Just befoi-e serving mix thoroughly with 
cream. Decorate to]) of dish with tiny sprigs of parsley. 

Squash in Shell. 

Cut s<|uash in s(|uares alxuit thi-ee and one-half inches s(juare. 

23 



Bake in oven until done. Serve individually, seasoned and with 
liberal piece of buttei'. 

Shrimp Salad. 

Take a fifteen cent can of shrimps, four medium sized cooked 
potatoes, one onion, one cupful ripe olives, two stalks celery, 
one tablespoon chopped parsley, two hard boiled eggs and one 
cup of Queen cream salad dressing. Wash and dry shrimps, 
dice potatoes, onions and celery. Cut olives fT-oni stone and slice 
eggs. Mix shi-iiii])s with potatoes and dressing. Add onion, 
celei-y and olives. Chili and sei've decoi-ated with eggs, pai-sley 
and whole olives. 

Hamilton Frozen Pudding-. 

Beat the yolks of five eggs slightly, and add one cup sugar, 
one-half teaspoon salt, and three cups milk. Cook over hot watei", 
stin-ing constantly until mixture thickens, strain and cool ; then 
Havor with one tablespoon vanilla and two and one-half table- 
spoons brandy and add whites of five eggs beaten until stiff, 
and one and one-half cups heavy cream beaten until stiff, h'reeze 
using thi-ee parts finely crushed ice and one part i-ock salt. Pack 
in bi'ick mold until serving time. Remove from mold to chilled 
serving dish and sui-i-ound with strawberries cut in halves and 
sprinkled with sugar. 

DINNER NO. 4. 

CREAM OF PEA SOUP 

WAFERS RADISHES 

PLANKED WHITE FISH ROSETTE POTATOES 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE WITH DUMPLINGS 

MASHED POTATOES BRUSSELS SPROUTS 

JELLY 

ORIENTAL SALAD 

SULTANA STRAWBERRY 
24 



Cream of Pea Soup. 

Put one pint of milk in a double boilei-, add one pint of 
cooked oi- canned peas, which have been put through colandei-, 
rub together one tablespoon of iioui- and one of butter and add 
to soup. Just before serving add one-half pint of cream and 
serve very hot. Canned or green coi-n may be used in same way. 
This soup is very delicious. 

Planked White Fish. 

Foui- pounds white fish, one lemon, one-half cup butter, one 
teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon pepper, one cup boiling watei-. 
Remove head and have fish split fi-om head to tail so it can be 
flattened on plank, but be careful not to split skin. Ha\e plank 
very hot and brush with butter. Place on board skin side down 
and tack firmly in place. Bake in moderately hot oven five 
minutes, then take brush and bathe fish with other ingredients 
made into sauce for basting. Continue every ten minutes foi' half 
houi-, then remove from oven. Place plank on a platter and 
serve at once. Garnish plattei- so as to covei* plank, but do not 
remove fish from it until served. This will sei-ve six. The rosette 
potatoes are well seasoned mashed potatoes run through paste 
tube and made in form of roses around fish on plank. It may l)e 
]-eturned to oven to brown potatoes slightly. 

Chicken Fricasee With Dumplings. 

Prepare fowl and boil as usual. JNIelt good sized piece of 
butter to golden color with one large finely sliced onion and two 
tablespoons of floui-. Add the broth which has been boiled down, 
and several slices of lemon, a dash of white pepper with nutmeg, 
one-half glass of white wine (oi- vinegai') and lay chicken in this 
boiling bi-oth. Boil slowly five minutes, add yolks of two eggs 
and stii- until smooth. Serve decorated with mushrooms and with 
dumplings. 

Brussels Sprouts. 

Cook in salted water until tendei*, di'ain and serve with a 
drawn buttei- sauce, or buttei'ed and seasoned well. 



Oriental Salad. 

One (juart of tomatoes, fresh or canned, one-half onion 
sliced, one bay leaf, one stalk celery. Cook for twenty minutes, 
then strain twice. To three cups liquid add one-half teaspoon su- 
j2:ar. Mix in sliced stuffed olives, pimentos and a few French 
peas. Use Minute s'ellatine to set, serve Avith Queen cream salad 
dj-essinji' on lettuce. This is pretty moulded in individual moulds. 

Sultana Strawberry. 
Make a i-ich pie cr-ust as for lemon pie and hake. Fill shell 
with fresh sweetened strawberries. Cover all with whipped 
ci-eam and s])riid<le with finely chopped nut meats. 

DINNER NO. 5. 

CARO CONSOMME 

SAUTED CHEESE SANDWICHES OLIVES 

FROGS LEGS EN TOMATO 

ROAST SPRING LAMB MINT SAUCE 

MASHED POTATOES RICE CROQUETTES 

GREEN PEAS 
ORIOLE SALAD 

PLAIN BREAD AND BUTTER SANDWICHES 
NUTTED CREAM CAKE 

COFFEE 

Caro Consomme. 

Vuuv i)ouiids finely ('li()})ped beef and two (piarts water, add 
one onion, sliced, two bay leaves, one cai'i-ot chopped fine, one 
blade mace, five oi* six cloves. Place ovei' fire, bring slowly to 
boiling point, let sinime?" one houi-. Add one tablespoon sugar 
in which you have fried a slice of onion. Boil two minutes, strain 
through two thicknesses of cheese cloth, season, reheat and serve 
with a thin slice of onion. 

Sauted Cheese Sandwiches. 

!Mix grated cheese Avith salad dressing and spi-ead between 
slices of buttered bread. Dip in white of egg slightly beaten 

26 



with one tablespoon milk. Bake in hot oven until a delicate 
brown. 

Frog Legs en Tomatoes. 

Put frog legs in boiling water; take out and put in eold 
Avater. Dip in cornnieal and place in frying pan with butter 
and fry slowly, turning carefully. Prepare tomatoes as for 
sauce. Arrange legs in it and garnish with toast cut in cubes. 
SAUCE : Strain tomatoes, season with salt, pepper, and cayenne 
pepper ; thicken slightly. 

Roast Spring- Lamb. 

Get leg of lamb, season well and bake until well done. Serve 
on platter, garnish with rice croquettes. 

Mint Sauce. 

Add to two tablespoonfuls of Avashed and finely chopped 
mint a little white pepper and a gill of vinegar in which two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar have been dissolved. Let stand a half 
hour before serving. If this sauce is preferred hot, the vinegar 
and sugar may be heated to boiling point and the minced mint 
stirred in just before serving. 

Rice Croquettes. 

Two cups boiled rice, thi-ee tablespoons cream, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon pepper, a few gi-ains cayenne 
pepper, a few drops of onion juice and the yolk of one egg. Beat 
thoroughly. Take up rounding tablespoon of mixture and I'oll 
between hands in the form of a small ball then roll lightly on a 
board until desired length and flatten ends. Roll in crumbs, then 
in egg, then crumbs again. Fi-y one minute in deep fat and drain 
on brown papei-. 

Oriole Salad. 

Allow a small head of lettuce to each pei'son, pluck off the 
outer leaves and enough of the heai-t to form inside of nest. Pi-e- 
pare eggs for nest by nnxing with two cupfuls of cottage cheese, 
a half cupful of chopped English walnuts, a teaspoon of chopped 

27 



chives or onion with a seasoning of salt and paprika. Blend 
thoroughly, roll into little egg shajDes Arrange three eggs in 
each nest, and pour around them? (not over) a mayonnaise to 
which has been added a few chopped olives and capers. 

Nutted Cream. 

Cover one-fourth box gelatine with one-half cup cold water. 
Whip a pint of sweet cream to a stiff froth. Sprinkle into the 
cream four tablespoons chopped blanched almond meats. Add 
thi'ee-fourths cup powdered sugar, one teaspoon vanilla. Pour 
four tablespoons watei- on gelatine and place over tea kettle to 
dissolve. Strain into cream and stir until it thickens. Heap a 
tablespoon whipi^ed cream on top and spi-inkle with nut meats or 
garnish with cherries. Chill. 

28 



IVe Have Three Very Special Salads 

They are New and Delicious— Something Different 




The Salad la Superba— Illustrated above is without a parallel 
for Luncheons. 

The Santasia Salad— A Beautiful Fruit Salad. New, 
Delicious and Refreshing. 

The Salad Tiger Lily— One that will tempt the most 
Fastidious. 

We will also give with these a New and Wonderful Salad 
Dressing. All Four of the Recipes for 

FIFTY CENTS 



HARRIET WARNER 

Bay City, Michigan 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 519 304 7 



