Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



s 



I 

I 



K 



k 



^ 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY OP GEORGE HADDAD 



The Tottle Company 

Pdblibheiw 

Rutland, Vermont 

1916 



rUBLiCLIbKAtv\' 



TI'_::>--M FJU'.DATIONIX 



MR. GEOBGE HADDAD 
( Emily, wro has beeh or orbat assist- 
ance IN THE PEEPABATION OF THE BOOK, iSD HIS SON ELIAB, 
WHO WAS IIESPCNSIBLB FOB HIS FATHER'S SAFE EETnEN TO 
THIS COUNTRY BEFCBE THE CUTBHEAK QT THE EUKOPEAN WAR 



MT. LEBANON TO 
VERMONT 

Autobiography of George haddad 

TAKEN DOWN BY HIS DAUGHTER 

EMILY MARIE HADDAD 

WITH THK ASSISTANCE OF 

BERENICE RACHEL TUTTLE 




^ J ^ 



with an Introduction by 

JOHN ABNER MEAD, M. D., LL. D. 

Governor of Vermont, 1010-1012 



-» J 



» w 



^ J •'-'«>-» 



■> j" J . 



V^ 






-»■<-'. - ^ 






• ^ 



- J-- 



■J J 



-^ ^ W 



' ^ ' ■' -> J J 



* t > t 



'^As the mountains are Wound about Jerusalem^' 



S f 



1 



PUBLIC LIBRARY 

780 1 8 



■? 



ASTOR, LENOX AND 
TILDEN FQUNDAriONS 

R 19 6 L 



Copyright 1916 
George Haddad 









* 



• • • • • • 

»• « • • •• 
• • *•• *■ 



• • * • • • 

« • • • • • 



• • • •* •••—It 



The Tuttle Company, PuBliahera, Rutland, Vermont 



\ 



^ 



\ 









■ This Little Volume is Dedicated to 
one who will never be forgotten by her children 

frora whom I am parted by thousands of miles 

and a cruel war. 



May God soon give peace to the nations! 



Table of Contents 

Page 
Introduction 1 

Part I 

Chapter I — Boyhood in Syria 3 

Chapter 11 — Travels around the Mediter- 
ranean 27 

Chapter Til — ^America at Last 51 

Chapter IV — Visits to Syria 61 

Chapter V — The New Home in America . . 119 

Part II 
Syrian Recipes 135 

Appendix 

Reprint from Bulletin A. M. N. H 171 

List of Subscribers to this Book 177 



List of IDustrations 



Page 

Mr. George Haddad Frontispiece 

Correct Druse Costume 15 

Beyrouth Harbor and Railroad Station . . 21 

The Statue of Liberty in New York Harbor 55 

Notre Dame de la Garde, Marseilles, show- 
ing inclined railway 71 

American Museum of Natural History. ... 74 

Eas el-Ain, Source of Baalbek's Water 
Supply 84 

St. George, Patron Saint of Syria 96 

Tomb of St. John in Omayyade Mosque, 
Damascus 110 

Center Street, Rutland, Vermont 124 

A Marble Quarry 128 

Plant of the Howe Scale Company 130 

Coelodus syriacus, Photograph 174 



^ 



The Tpttle Coupaxt 

Pdblxsbcbh 

Rutland, Vkrmont 

1916 



rU:>LiCLll.'KAiK\ 



T1'..T-'I FJVJ' DA' r»Ntt 



INTRODUCTION 

T[JT THE urgent request of my friend and 
jl fellow townsman, Mr, George Haddad, 
I am attempting a few lines of intro- 
duction to his autobiographical sketch, the 

writing of which has afforded him special 
pleasure as it has given him an opportunity 

to publish his love for his adopted country and 

again to revive the scenes of his early life 

in his native country — far away Syria. 

Biographical histories and sketches of travel 

are always interesting and instructive as each 

succeeding author will view the same facts and 

scenes in different aspects each inspired by new 

thoughts and lessons. 

Thus in presenting to his numerous friends 
not only in the new world but in that most 
ancient (the oldest of the old), his personal 
history, Mr. Haddad has given an interesting 
account of a successful life. 

Deprived of many early advantages which 
would have added to his native strength, his 
career is one of which he may be justly proud 



2 Introduction 

and although he does not possess ** wealth be- 
yond the dreams of avarice" he has the assur- 
ance of a comfortable future. His children in 
their pleasant home **rise up and call him 
blessed ' ' and the pleasures of home and kindred 
afford more real pleasure and delight to his 
heart than the dreams of ambition. 

Mrs. Haddad has placed in this book many- 
formulas for Oriental delicacies which will ap- 
peal to all housekeepers, for the confections of 
the Orient are famous. These are brought to 
our own doors and will be surely prized. • 

Mr. Haddad should have the endorsement of 
the patronage of Rutland for he is a man in- 
dustrious and trustworthy, honorable and patri- 
otic, being very loyal to the beloved country 
of his adoption. His principles of integrity in 
his relations to his fellowmen should find a 
cordial recognition from every resident of this 
city which he and his loved ones now call home, 
and where he has resided for twenty-two years, 
respected and honored by all. 

JOHN A. MEAD 



CHAPTER I 
BOYHOOOD IN SYRIA 



Part I 
Life of George Haddad 

CHAPTER I 
BOYHOOD IN SYRIA 

Why I write my story — ^Parentage and ancestry — Situation 
of Barook — ^Where the water rises — The district of Lebanon — 
The mountains of Lebanon — Crops and occupations — How to 
raise silkworms — Occupations of Barook — The blessed cedars 
— First wages — The Druses — The churches of Barook — The 
fighting in 1860 — Settlement of difficulties — The schools of 
Barook — Trips to Damascus and to Zebedani — Mr. Sirsuck 
takes me in hand — Oood advice — Smallpox — The call of the 
West. 

mANY friends of mine have asked me how 
I happened to settle in Rutland, Ver- 
*mont, so I thought I would write my 
story, for them all to read. 

I was bom in Barook in the district of Leban- 
on in Syria, May 22, 1866. My parents were 
Hadlea Haddad and Habib George, who was the 
son of George Deyha Haddad. I have not ex- 
amined the church records to learn where my 



6 Life of George Haddad 

great grandfather, Deyha Haddad, came from 
to settle in Barook, but land has been record- 
ed there in the name of Deyha Haddad for 
over one hundred seventy-five years. The Had- 
dad family is the largest in Syria, and nearly 
every place you go there you find people by that 
name. 

The family of Deyah Haddad, my great- 
grandfather, it is supposed, came to Lebanon 
from Basra, '*a four days' ride " or about 
eighty miles east of Damascus. Deyah Haddad 
lived to be 95 years old and when he died left 
four daughters and one son, George, my grand- 
father. Deyah 's brother, Karam Haddad, lived 
in an old-fashioned house beside him in Barook, 
and his large family and that of Deyah were 
brought up in close friendship. My own cousin 
Assad had eleven children and others of my 
people almost as large families, so that now I 
have hundreds of relatives throughout Lebanon, 
as well as in South America and the United 
States. 

Barook is twenty-five miles southeast of Bey- 
routh and four miles from Mount Lebanon, 
which at this point is over 6,500 feet above 



Boyhood in Syria 7 

sea level. It is a grand summer resort for all 
Syria and Egypt, as are many other towns on 
the slopes of Lebanon. The water rising at a 
fine spring a mile or two east of the town is 
carried to a distance of thirty miles northwest, 
supplying the towns down to the city of Sidon. 
No one knows how long Barook has been in 
existence. 

The spring at Barook covers three acres of 
land; the water rises here and there and forms 
little brooks and all are connected by streams 
which flow into the river. Above the spring is 
a high mountain and below it the river flows 
through a wide valley between two hills. The 
spring is surrounded by groves of pine and wil- 
low, and all together the scenery is wild and 
beautiful. 

On the slope above the spring are many rocks 
and among them is a long white stone cut into 
the shape of a tomb, six feet long, five feet 
deep and four feet wide; the stone itself is 
eight inches thick and there is no knowing how 
many feet it is deep in the ground. The tomb 
has no cover and there are no inscriptions on 
it to show who made it or who used it. Indeed 



8 Life op George Haddad 

it greatly puzzles people to know how this tomb 
came to be where it is as it is impossible for 
any human being to live very near here on 
account of the many rocks, the unleveled 
ground and rough roads. 

When I was a boy I visited this tomb many 
times with my mates and saw how in the 
Spring it was full of rain water. The tomb is 
called in Syrian, '^Juran el-Namus," Namus 
meaning tomb. 

The district of Lebanon is about ninety miles 
in length by thirty-five in width. Though the 
district consists almost entirely of rugged moun^ 
tains with deep rocky gorges and diflScult roads, 
the high valleys and lower slopes of the moun- 
tains are carefully cultivated and support a 
thousand villages with approximately 500,000 
inhabitants. The number has never been ex- 
actly counted but is estimated from the number 
of people paying taxes. Fortunately, its 
natural products are many and valuable. 

Like Vermont, the mountains of Lebanon con- 
tain great quantities of marble and granite — 
hence the name Mt. Lebanon, meaning ** white 
mountain." It is said in the Scriptures that 



Boyhood in Syria . 9 

when the great Temple of Jerusalem was under 
construction, seventy thousand men were kept 
at work getting out stone from this district, 
while eighty thousand worked at cutting and 
polishing it. The "blessed'* cedar of Lebanon 
was also used in great quantities in the Temple. 
There is much snow on the mountains, lasting 
through most of the year on the greatest heights 
— consequently, Lebanon is the coldest district 
in Syria, but in the valleys the temperature 
is moderate the year around. 

There is a large annual crop of olives, besides 
grapes, figs, oranges, lemons, apricots, almonds, 
and walnuts, and various grains. Along the 
seacoast are fields of sugar-cane and there is 
a good supply of pine and cedar for lumber. 
But the principal occupation of the people now- 
adays is the cultivation of silkworms, as the 
moderate climate is favorable to the mulberrv 
tree, the leaves of which are the only food fed to 
the silkworms. 

• 

The worms come from tiny round eggs, dark 
green in color. These are now cultivated in 
Syria from year to year, but the first ones were 
brought to Constantinople from China, 



10 Life op George Haddad 

hundreds of years ago, being carried out 
secretly in a cane by a monk, who wished to 
start the industry elsewhere. About the middle 
of April in Barook — earlier in warmer parts 
of the state — the eggs are spread out in a 
warm room and smoked for a few days to make 
them open. The tiny worms are then put on a 
wooden tray and for a month are fed with mul- 
berry leaves, cut very fine with a knife used for 
no other purpose. Every week they are shifted 
to a clean place on the tray, and it is necessary 
to have the hands, knife and everything about 
the room very clean. By the time the worms 
are sixteen days old they can be fed whole 
leaves. 

Almost every family in Barook, when I was a 
boy, raised silkworms in at least one room in 
the house. I used to like to feed the worms 
and helped my mother at it a great deal. When 
I went in to feed them I had to carry a candle 
as the room was always kept dark. 

When the worms are ready to spin their 
cocoons boughs are placed about the room for 
their use. The cocoons, which are about an 
inch long, are then gathered, weighed, and sent 



Boyhood in Syria 11 

to the factory in baskets, a portion being sayed 
for ''seed'' the following year. The chrysalis 
has to be helped out of the cocoon by cutting 
the threads and the butterfly dies soon after 
laying the eggs. These mutilated cocoons are 
not wasted, as the raw silk is converted at home 
into clothing for the children. 

At the factory the cocoons are put into hot 
water, killing the chrysalis. They are then 
dried out on a wooden screen, and the silk is 
wound off, ready to be spun and shipped to 
Europe. There are a hundred and fifty silk 
factories in the state of Lebanon. 

Barook is noted for its grapes and its fruit 
trees, especially mulberry, fig, plum, almond 
and walnut trees. The people also raise grain 
and wheat and many of them are merchants 
who deal in horses and sheep. There are no 
factories in Barook but most of the girls crochet 
all kinds of lace and do embroidery. 

Directly opposite Barook is the ''Ebhool" or 
' ' Jebel el arz, ' ' meaning the mountain of cedar, 
and this part of the mountain belongs to the 
town of Barook. From here one views many 



12 Life of George Haddad 

towns towards the east and west and the Med- 
iterranean is very plainly seen. There is one 
large spot here thick with cedar trees, with 
trunks ten or twelve feet to where the branches 
start and spring up to a height of sometimes 
a hundred feet. The trunks of the largest trees 
measure twenty-five feet in circumference; al- 
most as large as those of the garden of Rustum 
Pasha. 

The word *'arz," the Syrian word for cedar, 
is taken from a Hebrew word meaning strong. 
There are cedar trees in many other parts of 
the mountain. No person is allowed to cut a 
living cedar trunk from Ebhool and they are 
charged so much for every load of dead trees 
they take, but tourists who wish to have cedar 
cones from the trees may take all they want. 

About fifty miles north of Ain es Halta, 
which is the northern part of Lebanon, above 
the village of Besherreh, there is a group of 
six hundred eighty trees including large and 
small. These grow on the slopes of the moun- 
tains, at a height of six thousand feet above the 
sea level. Rustum Pasha, the third Christian 



Boyhood in Syria 13 

governor of Lebanon, protected this grove 
against animals by a well built stone wall. 
Some of these cedars are probably hundreds 
of years old, but now there are only a dozen 
of the largest trees remaining but some of these 
have trunks over forty feet around. 

The first money I earned was in connection 
with the cedar grove. When I was about eleven 
years old I was playing with my mates in front 
of the school when four tourists on horseback 
stopped and called me to them. They wished 
to know the way to the ^ * Arz ' ' and I told them 
what direction to take and walked along a little 
way with them. For this they presented me 
with a coin, Nus Magadi, worth about forty-two 
cents. When I reported to my teacher, Mr. 
Assad, he patted me on the back and told me 
not to lose the money. After school I ran home 
and showed it to my mother, who kissed me 
and told me that she would invite some of my 
friends for a party to celebrate. My father 
was also glad that I knew enough to show them 
the right direction. The next evening I had the 
party, and we enjoyed ourselves with singing 
and dancing, and games very much like the 



14 Life op George Haddad 

American blind-man's bluff and hide-and-go 
seek. 

The population of Barook is a little over two 
thousand five hundred. There are not so many 
Christians, as the Druses, who practice a re- 
ligion similar* to that of the Mohammedans, but 
are not allied with them. Their prophet, or 
Messiah, is Hakem Biamr Allah, Caliph of 
Egypt and a descendant of Fatima, a daughter 
of Mohammed. He claimed for himself author- 
ity as an incarnation of God. This doctrine 
was, however, unpopular with the Egyptians, 
and the Druses (named from Darazi, the prin- 
cipal preacher of it) emigrated to the mountains 
of Syria, where there are now over 200,000 and 
probably 75,000 of these are inhabitants of the 
district of Lebanon. 

The Druses are intelligent and hospitable 
people, mostly well educated, and they treat 
their women with the greatest courtesy. They 
do not believe in smoking and drinking. Some 
of the young men may smoke but not with the 
approval of their elders. Their dress is much 
like that of the Christians except for white 
sashes around their turbans, but many now 



CORBECT DRUSE COSTUME 



16 Life of George Haddad 

dress in the American costume. They marry 
only once and divorce their wives only in very 
severe cases. The Christians may make friends 
with the Druse women but they do not shake 
hands when they meet and no marriages take 
place between Christians and Druses. 

The women of the Druses are usually hand- 
some. They wear on their heads white (or if 
in mourning, black) silk, linen or muslin scarfs 
about two or two and a half yards in length, 
which cover their faces all except one eye. Of- 
ten the Druses of the upper class take their 
wives with them to their meetings but the 
young folks are not allowed to go. These meet- 
ings are held every Friday evening in a stone 
building something like a temple. 

The two churches of Barook, St. George and 
St. Anthony, are built of white stone and are 
not very large, though they seemed large to 
me in my childhood. The floors are of red stone 
and the high altars are of marble and there are 
pictures of the Stations of the Cross on the 
walls. The men occupy the front of the church 
and the ladies the back, the two parts being 
separated by a screen. 



Boyhood in Syria 17 

My uncle, David Haddad, who was my 
mother's brother and husband of my Aunt 
Martha, gave a great deal of money to the 
church as well as to the poor people of the 
town, and is buried in the church of St. 
Anthony. 

My mother told me that when there was 
fighting between the Christians and Druses in 
1860 the Druses in Barook did not massacre 
any Christians, as they are all friends. When 
my father and many other men were on their 
way to Zayla, where a great battle was fought 
later, they were overtaken and attacked by the 
Druses in the fields of Zahir el-Bidr, three miles 
east of Ain Drira. In this battle my father 
was one of the flagbearers and was wounded 
in the leg, and my uncle and several of my 
cousins lost their lives. The Christians lost a 
large number of men, of whom over twenty were 
from Barook and Fredise, a town one mile north 
of Barook, but the Druses had the worst posi- 
tion and lost more men, many of whom were 
their leaders. After this battle the Christians 
went on to Zayla, which is about twenty miles 
northeast of Barook. 



I 



18 Life of- George Haddad 

The women who were left alone were obliged 
to do the work of the men. One day my mother 
was on her way to the vineyard and a man 
came up to rob her, but she escaped safely. She 
went to one of the most influential of the Druses 
in Barook, Ottoman Bey, and told him, and he 
found the man and punished him severely and 
a law was soon made forbidding the Druses to 
touch the Christian women. 

In the summer of 1860 the Christian women, 
seeing many Druse strangers coming into town, 
took their children and all the goods they could 
carry to Zayla, where their husbands were wait- 
ing to fight the enemy. Zayla is a Christian 
city, having a usual population of 20,000 but at 
this time over 150,000 Christians had gathered 
there for safety from different parts of Lebanon 
and Syria. After a few months so many Arabs 
and Druses came to Zayla that the women and 
children had to flee once more, this time to 
Beyrouth. The Christians fought the Arabs and 
Druses but were driven back to Beyrouth, 
where their wives and children were. 

A short time after, and to the great relief 
of the Christians, French troops landed in Bey- 



Boyhood in Syria 19 

routh, sent by an agreement of the great 
Powers of Europe. All who had been away 
fearing massacre returned to their homes. 
Everything at our house was safe. The French 
troops did not leave until a partial independ- 
ence under the Turkish flag had been given to 
Lebanon. My father was interested in protect- 
ing the Druse houses and their women and 
children from injury before peace was con- 
cluded. The first Christian governor under this 
arrangement was David Pasha. The govern- 
ment in Lebanon is now good and there has been 
no trouble between Druses and Christians since 
that time. 

There are two schools for. girls and boys in 
Barook, both in small stone buildings. The 
Syrian school is, of course, much older, but it 
is pleasanter to go to the American missionary 
school. The building is very clean and neat, 
and there are benches for the children. There 
is a half -hour recess every morning, and every 
few days the children are taken on a picnic. 
Both Christians and Druses go to these schools 
because the Druses do not have a school of their 
own. The Christian children play with their 



20 Life op George Haddad 

Druse schoolmates. When I was ten years old, 
this American school was started and I at- 
tended for a few years. The people of the 
town were glad to see the American mission- 
aries open a school in Barook. 

While I attended this school I nsed to hear 
about the grandeur of America and kept it in 
my mind until I grew up, but no one had gone 
to America from Barook before me to tell us 
what America was like, and the teaching was 
all in the Syrian language, so I had no chance 
to learn English. 

When I was sixteen years old my father died, 
and six months later I left with my uncle Assad 
on business to Damascus which is about fifty 
miles east of Barook. It was the first time I 
had left home on a long journey. As there was 
no railroad our travelling was done on mules. 
We stayed in Damascus for three days and dur- 
ing that time we enjoyed ourselves in the oldest 
city in the world. My uncle did his trading 
and then we returned home. A little later my 
cousin Jonas, who is a fruit buyer, took me with 
him to Zebedani, where the finest apples grow, 
to buy apples to ship to Barook. 



Boyhood in Syria 21 

I had a good friend in Beyrouth, Mr, Joseph 
Afenda Mutran, whom I had met when he was 
camping for the summer in Barook, and through 
him I obtained a situation, six months later, 
in Beyrouth, in the household of Mr. Moses Sir- 
suck, the richest man in Syria. The Sirsuck 
family own several banks in Syria and Egypt. 

Mr. Sirsuck, who is one of my best and oldest 
friends, is an elderly man, rather small, but 
noticeable for his beautiful smiling face. His 
son's wife, Mrs. Emily George Sirauck, conducts 
a school in Beyrouth and helps the poor a great 



BEYKOUTH HAEBOH AND RAILROAD STATION 



22 Life of Oeorge Haddad 

deal. She sometimes sends things to poor people 
who never know where they come from. Many 
people who have worked for the Sirsucks have 
become wealthy, and they are very generous to 
all their people. 

Mr. SirsTick used to take me with him every- 
where he went and I was always pleased to go. 
When we were at home he called me early every 
morning to help him in the garden. He had his 
cnp of Turkish coffee and then until 7 :30 break- 
fast we would move the plants or do whatever 
was needed. I asked him why it was that he 
got up every morning to work in the garden, 
having four gardeners to do it, and he replied, 
''I am anxious to do it, because it is good for 
the health and will develop the system. '^ 

When I was working in the garden with him 
he told me something of how the family became 
rich. He said: 

* ' My boy, George, my father had six sons and 
for many years we all worked at weaving silk 
in our small factory. The money we earned we 
gave to father, who invested it in land. 

* ' Before he died my father called us six boys 
to him. We saw in his hand a bunch of sticks 



Boyhood in Sybu 23 

and he told us the old story of how they can- 
not be broken unless they are taken apart, and 
we all tried and saw that it was so. *And now,* 
he said, 'don't let anything, whatever, separate 
yon boys from each other. ' 

''When my father died we started to trade 
in wheat and other things along with the fac- 
tory and after a short time we sold the factory 
and worked in different trades, bnt we did not 
forget my father 's instructions. After working 
together for a time we had enough means to 
establish a big trade. One day a ship came to 
port carrying Turkish caps and we bought them 
all and made a great fortune on them. After a 
few years we each had a mansion of our own 
and the business is still running under the 
names of Sirsuck Bros., and Sirsuck & Cousins.'' 

While I was with the Sirsucks I was taken ill 
with smallpox, but did not know what the mat- 
ter was. When Mrs. Sirsuck saw me she knew 
at once and wrapped me iq her own knitted 
shawl and called the coachman to take me to the 
French hospital of the Sisters of Nazareth. I 
shall never forget what good care they took of 
me, so that the disease did not leave a mark 



- I 



24 Life of George Haddad 

on me. I had a private room and Mr. Sirsuck 
paid all the expenses of my illness. Mrs. Sir- 
snck sent messengers to the hospital twice a 
day to see how I was getting along. When the 
doctor came in, he used to say to me, ^'Haddad, 
yoTi will be all right, do not be afraid. ' ' 

When my mother knew I was ill, she came to 
Beyrouth with my brother, sisters and other 
relatives, but the doctor would not allow them 
to take me home, so after a few days they re- 
turned home, sending every day to ask how I 
was. I remained in the hospital forty-five days. 

When I recovered I thanked the Sisters and 
doctor for what they had done for me and re- 
turned to Mr. Sirsuck 's house. They were all 
pleased to see me well, and the shawl Mrs. Sir- 
suck had wrapped me in I sent to my mother 
and she still has it. 

One evening a ball was held at the home 'of 
Mr. Sirsuck in honor of the Admirals of the 
English and French fleets there in Beyrouth. 
The governors of Syria and of Lebanon and the 
representatives of all foreign countries stationed 
in Beyrouth were invited and there were not 



Boyhood in Syria 25 

less than six hundred people at this grand enter- 
tainment. 

Mr. Sirsuck entertained many American tour- 
ists while I was there and they also told me of 
the grandeur of America and of how much I 
would like it. I remained about two years with 
him, and hastening home asked my mother's 
permission to go to America, 



CHAPTER II 

TRAVELS AROUND THE MEDITER- 
RANEAN 



CHAPTER II 

TEAVELS AROUND THE MEDITER- 
RANEAN 

To Alexandria via Cyprus — ^Work at Eamuld — Sarephath and 
St. Elias — Tyre now and long ago — ^Acre and Dagset El Far- 
ms — Haifa and St. Elias again — ^Brigands request tobacco— 
Caesaxea, Jaffa and Jerusalem — ' Port Said and finally Alex- 
andria — The cafes of Alexandria — The pillar of Diocletian 
— ^Attractions of Bamuld — ^Marseilles and good Paul Nemher 
— Adventure at Barcelona — Malta and its history — America 
not yet — A horse story — ^Vacation trip to Cairo — ^The Pyra- 
mids — ^Marriage to Mary Aschkar. 

TT|HEN my mother refused permission for 
£^l me to go to America I returned to Bey- 
^'V routh, and sailed from there for Alex- 
andria, Egypt, where I was sure I could get a 
place in the household of Mr. Sirsuck's nephew, 
George Bey Sirsuck, whom I had often seen at 
Beyrouth. 

I had to wait two days at Cyprus for the 
steamer for Alexandria and during my stay 
there I enjoyed myself in the city of Limasol. 
Limasol has a population of ten thousand and 
is the headquarters of the British garrison, as 



30 Life of Geobge Haddad 

the island was under British protection, though 
then owned by Turkey. In the present war it 
his been taken over entirely by Great Britain. 
Wine and locust beans are its principal exports. 
It has some fine houses occupied by British 
officers. 

I worked for a year for Mr. Sirsuck ^s nephew 
in Ramuld, just outside of Alexandria, doing 
the trading for his house and having charge of 
all his help. After another year, spent in selling 
tobacco in my own store, I sold the place and 
went back to Barook, intending to take my 
mother and brother to America. They would 
not go, however, and did not let me go either. 

I stayed home six months, then returned to 
Beyrouth and started for Jaffa on horseback, 
being determined to go to America. It took 
about three weeks to get to Jaffa as I stopped 
at different cities on the way. 

Between Sidon and Tyre are the ruins of old 
Sarephath. Only a few houses remain. This 
is the place where the prophet Elias, or Elijah, 
met the widow who so generously shared her 
last bit of meal and oil with him, and was re- 



Meditebbanean Tbavels 31 

warded by the miraeuloiis preservation of her 
son, as told in the Scriptures. I have always 
been interested in Elias and when I had a son 
I named him after him. 

The present city of Tyre, in Syria called Sur, 
meaning wall, is of no particular importance. 
Its seven thousand inhabitants are under the 
Turkish government of Beyrouth. I was told 
that ancient Tyre stood on this same site and 
also covered an island opposite, and I was of 
course reminded of all I had heard about that 
wonderful city. The sea has covered many of 
the ruins, but they showed me old tombs cut in 
the rocks, and some remains of a cathedral over 
1500 years old. 

I was also told that in the sixth century 
before Christ, Nebuchadnezzar had failed to get 
possession of it after thirteen years' siege by 
land and sea. Two hundred and fifty years 
later the city fell before Alexander the Great, 
after a battle of seven months. Although almost 
destroyed in this contest, the city regained its 
prosperity, but after Alexander, fell under the 
rule of many other powers, and was even taken 
by the Crusaders. When I heard this I was 



:_/ 



32 Life of George Haddad 

greatly surprised and said at once that it was 
too bad that such a grand city should be cov- 
ered by the sea. 

After a day at Tyre I left for Acre, stopping 
at Ras El Ain, meaning ** where the water 
rises/' The owner of a mill there took me 
around to see where the water comes from four 
brooks, one leading to another and all very 
deep, so that the water looks blue. In ancient 
days they drew their water from here for the 
city of Tyre. 

A few miles from Ras El Ain on the way to 
Acre is a mountain called Dagset El Farrus, 
meaning ^^ Horse's Footstep.'' The ocean has 
formed a cave cut deep into the base of the 
mountain, five hundred feet below the road. 
When we arrived at the top of this mountain, 
a man told us to get down from our horses and 
hear the story of ^^ Dagset El Farrus." This 
story was of a bride coming from Acre to Tyre, 
whose horse missed his step on this spot and 
horse and woman fell over the precipice into 
the sea. 

We stayed at Acre two days. This is a very 
old city, strongly fortified long ago, and once 



.-1 



Meditebra2«ian Travels 33 

the chief landing place of the Crusaders. It 
has several walls one within another, and there 
is only one gate, on the south side of the city. 
Napoleon was unable to conquer it, and so he 
was stopped on his eastward march here. 

From Acre we went along the Bay of Acre 
to the small city at the foot of Mt. Carmel 
known as Caifa, or Haifa, and from there 
climbed Mount Carmel to the church and cave 
of the prophet Elias. Here we stayed at the 
Carmelite Monastery, which is hospitable to 
all travelers. 

The church is of stone with a floor of red 
and white marble. The high altar is of marble 
and beautifully carved. There are pictures of 
the saints on the walls, and a large picture 
of Elias. The cave is always lit with candles, 
and was only a few steps from the church. 

From Haifa we went on to Jaflfa, about thirty- 
five miles south, over a sandy road. The way 
was said to be very dangerous on account of 
treacherous Arabs, but I did not fear them as 
T had friends with me. About fifteen miles out- 
side the city we were stopped by five of them 



34 Life op Geoboe Haddad 

on horseback but all they did was to ask me 
for tobacco. 

Between these two cities we spent two days 
at Caesarea, a very splendid city nnder Herod, 
but nothing but ruins is left of the old build- 
ings, and there are but few new houses, inhab- 
ited by fishermen. From here the Roman cen- 
turion, Cornelius, sent for Peter to the house 
of Simon the Tanner in Jaffa, where he had seen 
the vision, as told in the Scriptures. 

Jaffa, or Joppa, is a beautiful old city, with 
groves of oranges which are as large as the 
California oranges, and many other kinds of 
fruit. The harbor is very rough and full of 
reefs. No steamer comes to port, but all stop 
a few miles out and send passengers into Jaffa 
by rowboats. People claim that the ark was 
built here by Noah. 

I stayed at Jaffa a month and took a trip up 
to Jerusalem, about thirty-five miles inland. 
While in Jerusalem I visited the strange Church 
of the Holy Sepulchre, and other important 
places such as the Mosque of Omar, which is 
built on the site of Solomon's Temple. The 
great rock shown in this mosque is the center 



Mediterranean Travels 35 

of many legends and stories. On it Abraham 
is said to have sacrificed, only withholding 
Isaac by the intervention of Jehovah; on it the 
ark of the covenant rested, and the altar of the 
Temple was placed, and some even say that 
from it Christ ascended into Heaven. The 
Scriptures tell ns that during the time of King 
Solomon, Jerusalem was the richest city in the 
worid. No history shows how old it is, but the 
western section is probably the oldest. The 
wall around the city has four gates, one in each 
direction. While here I bought some goods 
such as rosaries of mother-of-pearl, crosses and 
the like, and returned to Jaffa. 

I then took ship for Alexandria spending a 
day at Port Said. Port Said is a new city be- 
gun about 1860 as entrance and coaling station 
for the Suez Canal, which was opened in 1869. 
Port Said was named after Said Pasha, who 
was ruler of Egypt in 1854, at the time when 
the Canal was begun. Port Said has many 
beautiful residences and some of its streets are 
wide but it has no great mosques or public 
buildings. 

At Alexandria, a walk of a few blocks from 



36 Life of George Hjuodad 

the dock leads you to the park and the fine 
streets around it. In the park is the statue of 
Mohammed Ali Pasha who after the expulsion 
of the French, in 1804, became the ruler of 
Egypt. He was generous to his people and 
loved by them, and by the formation of a regu- 
lar army, improvements in irrigation and the 
introduction of many elements of European 
civilization, he made Egypt a great country. 

At the head of the park is the great marble 
Exchange office. The exchange is on the first 
floor of this building and also a cafe, where 1 
have spent many hours. On the second and 
third floors are sleeping rooms which are rented 
to merchants from all the countries around the 
Mediterranean. Around the park are hotels, 
mostly for tourists, book and steamship offices, 
and cafes. The greatest of these is the Cafe of 
the Garden, which holds five hundred chairs. 
There are three or four other cafes of impor- 
tance and in the whole city there are over a 
thousand of them. All the merchants have 
coffee before they go home for dinner, and at 
early evening they meet again to enjoy them- 
selves. Some assemble around a narghileh or 



Mediterranean Travels 37 

water pipe, which is their custom, while others 
drink Turkish coffee, playing cards or checkers. 
The cafes are crowded, especially after eight 
o'clock and they are kept open until very late 
at night. 

Pompey's Pillar, of red granite from Assuan, 
is one of the most remarkable objects in Alex- 
andria. It is in the Moslem burial ground in 
the southwestern part of the city where I often 
passed it. This memorial was long supposed to 
have been erected in memory of Pompey who 
was defeated by Caesar in the battle of Phar- 
salia, and fleeing southward was murdered on 
the Egyptian coast, but the inscription on its 
base, now almost illegible, stated that it was 
erected in honor of Diocletian and so it should 
perhaps be called thi^ Pillar of Diocletian. 

There are many churches and mosques, among 
the former the Cathedral of St. Mark, built in 
his memory by the patriarch of Abyssinia, as 
the first apostle to preachi Christianity in Egypt. 

On the seashore jxust northeast of the 6ity of 
Alexandria and closely connected with it is 
the beautiful summer resort of Eamuld, famed 



38 Life of George Haddad 

for its flowerbeds in front of every house. Mr. 
Sirsnck^s residence is here at Ramuld and while 
not so fine as his uncle's at Beyrouth, is a very 
fine house with large gardens. The streets 
are made lovely by date and fig trees, and tour- 
ists come here from all parts of the world. The 
EDiedive of Egypt has a beautiful home here 
where he spends his summers. There are Syr- 
ian, English and Greek churches, each surround- 
ed by a grove of date trees. In 1891 a railroad 
was built connecting Alexandria and this sum- 
mer resort, but when I went there from America 
in 1914 everything was changed, electric cars 
were running, new buildings had been erected 
and there was a new park near the ocean. 

On July 10, 1889, I sailed from Alexandria 
for Europe, as I supposed, on my way to Ameri- 
ca, but I did not succeed in reaching America 
as soon as I expected. 

I landed at Marseilles, France, and while 
there met many Syrian people who also wanted 
to go to America, but a friend of my father 's^ 
Paul Nemher, residing on the square of La 
Rotande not far from that station, advised me 
not to go with them, as I could not yet speak 



Mediterranean Travels > 39 

English, and from lack of money I was obliged 
to take Ms advice. 

Mr. Nemher, who is now (1916) nearly seven- 
ty years old, has been a sponge merchant and 
traveled extensively with these goods through 
Germany, Switzerland, Spain and Africa. 

I bought some goods at Marseilles to add to 
what I had from Jerusalem and Egypt and with 
five other Syrians, who were on their way to 
South America, went to Barcelona, Spain. This 
is a beautiful city; the churches are grand and 
the streets are clean. The soldiers of Barcelona 
march in ranks to church and before they enter 
take off their swords and guns and leave them 
outside in the church-yard guarded by other 
soldiers. 

One day after I had been here about eight 
weeks I went to the Plaza de la Paz to sell 
goods, and was doing a very good business 
there when I was caught by a policeman who 
forbade me to go into the Plaza again. Think- 
ing he was joking, however, I went again the 
next day and he saw me again and took me 
to the head man of the Plaza. 



40 Life of George Haddad 

Although I told him that I had not done any- 
thing wrong, this man said I should be severely 
punished, and sent me to the police station with 
a guard. While locked up in the station I 
thought miBerably about my mother's warnings 
against leaving my position and risking myself 
in strange countries. Although I felt that God 
would help me out of my troubles, I knew then 
as I do now that it is not wise for boys or 
girls to disregard their mothers* wishes. 

At twelve o'clock my dinner was brought to 
me, but I refused to eat. The guard then left 
me alone and I began to rap at the door, call- 
ing aloud in my own language, which of course 
nobody understood, but ten minutes later the 
guard came back and took me to a parlor, where 
two guards were standing at the door. 

In the parlor sat the governor of Barcelona, 
whom I knew by his uniform. He was a tall 
well built man about forty years old with fail 
complexion but dark hair and eyes. His wife 
sat at his right. She was also tall and dark, 
younger than her husband, and dressed in blue. 

I saluted and the governor's wife asked me 
if I spoke Spanish, or English. **I speak a 



Mediterranean Tibavels 41 

little Italian, ' ' I replied. ' * What have you done 
to have the policeman arrest you?" '*I have 
not done anything except to sell goods." She 
asked me what kind of goods and where I 
came from. When I came forward to answer 
she saw the cross which is tattooed on the back 
of my right hand. 

The tattoo on my right hand is a cross, over 
a crescent. When I was a little fellow, a man 
came to our town and seeing me standing with 
five or six playmates, he asked us if we wanted 
oijir hands tattooed. I gave him twenty-five 
cents and he printed the tattoo on my hand. 
When I reached home my father was very 
angry, and scolded me, saying I had no business 
to have a tattoo on my hand. Afterwards when 
my hand was swollen and painful I was sorry 
I had had it done, but when I was in Barcelona, 
this cross on my hand helped me a great deal. 
Then I thought to myself, how I wished my 
father was alive so I could tell him. 

The governor's wife took out her handker- 
chief and I saw tears in her eyes. She spoke 
to her husband in Spanish, which I did not 
understand, and then took out her card and 



n 



42 Life of George Haddad 

handed it to me telling me that the people of 
Barcelona would be good to me and buy my 
goods. She gave me ten dollars for the goods 
that were damaged and I thanked her very 
much and went my way, but I am sorry to say 
that I have lost her card. 

The governor's wife I think had come to go 
with her husband to dinner, because after I 
left the parlor I saw them get into a waiting 
carriage. She had probably heard the noise I 
made rapping at the door of the room, and 
asked the guard to bring me in. 

The next day I went back to the Plaza selling 
goods. The same policeman saw me and shout- 
ed at me in Spanish which I did not understand. 
When he asked me what I was doing there again, 
I just gave him the card, and he bowed his head 
and saluted it with his hand and told me to sell 
as much as I wished. 

Two weeks later the Syrians who were with 
me went on to South America and I was so lone- 
some that I started for home, sailing from 
Barcelona to Marseilles and from there to Alex- 
andria by way of the Island of Malta, where I 
spent two days. 



Mediterranean Travels 43 

Malta really consists of three islands, Malta, 
Gozo, and Comono, the two larger divided by 
a deep and narrow channel in which lies the 
smallest island, Comono. This channel forms a 
harbor for British gunboats, which command 
the Mediterranean sea. This is an important 
station in guarding the way from England to 
India. Although so small, the largest 17 miles 
long, the islands are very populous, I suppose 
because it is not easy for the large families to 
raise money to get away when they grow up. 
The people are largely Arabic and there is not 
much of the Italian in their customs, manners 
or language, although the island is only fifty- 
eight miles south of the Island of Sicily. Their 
language is a mixture of Arabic and Italian, 
but English is of course much used. 

Cotton is raised here, as well as fine large 
potatoes, and some wheat and barley. There 
are also vineyards and lemon orchards, and on 
the northern side of the island many sheep are 
pastured. 

The city of Valetta, the principal harbor and 
capital city, is very clean, with pavements of 
white stone. The walls of its fortress, which 



44 Life of Geoboe Haddad 

now belongs to England, are very high and 
fifteen feet thick. They were originally built 
for the defense of the Knights of St. John, 400 
years ago. • 

After a week at Alexandria, I went directly 
home, by way of Beyrouth. My people were 
very glad to see me back but my mother still 
refused permission for me to go to America. 
I told her especially of the great brass statue 
of Christopher Columbus at Barcelona, sixty 
feet high, its finger pointed towards America, 
but it made no difference in her feelings. My 
Uncle David also, who was always very kind 
to my mother and her children, especially after 
my father's death, hated to have me come and 
did everything to prevent it. 

But I insisted on starting out again, and 
sold some of the property left me by my father, 
to get money for the trip. I kissed my mother's 
hand and received her blessing, and then started 
once more for Alexandria, where I landed Feb- 
ruary 25, 1890. 

It was a pleasure to meet all my old acquaint- 
ances, and Mr. Sirsuck was so much pleased to 



Mediterranean Travels 45 

see me that he gave me the work I had before, 
and I stayed with him mitil I went to America. 

While here I used to enjoy a daily ride on Mr. 
Sirsuck's chestnut Arabian horse, worth $3,0rX). 
One afternoon when returning to the city, I 
turned at a rapid pace into a narrow street, and 
saw a hundred feet ahead of me, a nurse taking 
care of a little child. I thought to turn into 
a street at the left, but here was another nurse 
and child in front of me. Not knowing which 
way to turn, as there was a high wall between 
the two streets, I tried to stop the horse, but 
he was now so excited that he ran straight 
ahead and into a large tree that stood in the 
road. Down he fell on his knees and down I 
came with him. My forehead was cut, leaving 
a mark to this day. Three men carried me into 
a house nearby and bandaged my head while 
another went after the horse, but no one but 
myself could catch him. The poor beast was 
hurt on head and knees. I left him at the stable 
with the coachman and in time he entirely re- 
covered. The Sirsucks were sorry to learn that 
the horse had been hurt, but-more sorry for me, 
and very glad that I had managed not to run 



46 Life of Georqe Haddad 

over anyone. Mr. Sirsuck kindly forgave me 
for the accident but since then I have never 
taken a ride on horseback for pleasure. 

While in Alexandria I spent two weeks of 
my vacation in the beautiful city of Cairo. 
Hotel porters made a great noise at the station 
there and one could choose bietween taxicab and 
donkey to take one to the center of the city. 
The best hotels are on the Park of Cairo, and 
Turkish rugs, marble steps and plenty of 
flowers, make them seem very luxurious. Car- 
riages are not allowed inside the Park, but it 
is always crowded with pleasure-seekers. There 
is an opportunity for rowing on a small pond, 
and swings and similar amusements for the 
children, and the band plays there daily. 

The Mosque of El-Azhar, sometimes called 
the University Mosque, is one of the largest 
in the city and here thousands of Mohammedan 
students from different parts of India, Africa, 
Turkey, Persia, China and Russia come to learn 
the Koran in the Arabic language and to be 
grounded in the Mohammedan faith, rather 
than to get too much scientific learning. Grad- 



Mediterranean Tbavbls 47 

nates of the school become teachers of the 
Koran thronghont all the East. 

Some of the streets of Cairo are wide and 
clean, but imfortnnately not all. The palace of 
the Khedive of Egypt is a wonderful structure 
of white stone and marble. In front ot the 
palace the soldiers drill, and every evening the 
band plays there while the Khedive is at din- 
ner. But the museum is perhaps the most in- 
teresting place in Cairo, particularly to one 
who has first visited the Pyramids, as I did. 
Here in glass cases are very ancient jewels, 
mummies, and interesting carvings of the 
Pharaohs and their queens. 

Of course, I visited the Pyramids, going on 
donkey-back, as there were then no electric 
cars. Just over the Bridge of the Nile, on the 
way, is another lovely park planned by Ismail 
Pasha^ with a good collection of animals. The 
coffee-drinkers in the cafes around this park 
are delighted by a refreshing breeze from the 
Nile. 

A few miles directly west from the Park are 
the Pyramids. The first you arrive at is that 
of Cheops, the Great Pyramid, which is four to 



n 



48 Life op George Haddad 

five hundred feet high and has a base covering 
eleven acres. Its sides are in direction with the 
four cardinal points of the compass, and each 
measures seven hundred fifty feet at the founda- 
tion. 

The Pyramids were made as tombs for the 
Pharaohs. The sepulchres at the center are 
very small in comparison to the whole size of 
the Pyramid; if you wish you can enter that of 
Cheops, but only with the help of an Egyptian 
guide, who half drags you through the long 
slippery sloping passages, and this did not seem 
to me worth while. It is said that a hundred 
thousand men, possibly two or three times that 
number, worked twenty years in the building 
of the Great Pyramid. Some of the stones are 
from fifteen to thirty feet long and they average 
three feet high; as the facing has mostly dis- 
appeared, one can climb to the top as though 
going up steps, but not without the assistance 
of two guides. I climbed up a short distance 
only. 

A few yards to the southeast is the Sphinx, 
cut directly from the rock. It is very large but 
almost covered by the shifting sand. One can 



Mediterranean Travels 49 

see the ears, eyes and forehead very plainly, 
although the stone is cracked from the heat of 
the sun and has been sadly defaced. When I 
saw it again, after being in America, I remarked 
how it looked like George Washington, first 
president of the United States. 

About one hundred feet west of the Sphinx 
we entered the granite ruins of the temple, 
which was formerly entered between the paws 
of the Sphinx. Many of its rooms may still 
be traced though heaped with ruins. I meas- 
ured one of the cornerstones inside the build- 
ing and found it fifteen feet long. This greatly 
surprised me and made me remark how clever 
the men must have been who did such wonder- 
ful work. The walls of the temple are beauti- 
fully polished, and from it one can view what 
little remains of the ancient city of Memphis 
across the river Nile. I was told that in order 
to draw stone to build the Pyramids a bridge 
was erected which extended from the hill above 
Memphis to the Pyramids, but there are various 
other theories for the source of the stone and 
the method of obtaining it. 

Only a few weeks after my return to my 
work in Alexandria, I married Miss Mary 



50 



Life of George Haddad 



Aschkar to whom I had been engaged for three 
years, Mrs. Haddad was "bom in the town of 
Salhyeh, about four miles southeast of the old 
city of Sidon, and came to Alexandria to be 
with her aunt. She had a position in a house 
near where I was working and I used to see her 
taking the air in the flowergarden before the 
door. We became good friends and took many 
long walks together. We were married Dec- 
ember 27, 1891, by Rev. Father Michael Maloof. 



CHAPTER III 
AMERICA AT LAST 



CHAPTER III 
AMERICA AT LAST 

America at all costs — Marseilles, Paris, Havre on the way 
— ^What about the language — Arrival at New York and sug- 
gestions — ^New Haven reminds us of Bamuld — ^Danbury, New 
London, Albany, North Adams — Butland appeals to the moun- 
taineer — ^Permanent home here — ^Business ventures — A good 
•day's work at the barracks. 

Tn|FTER staying in Alexandria four months 
W^ longer I decided to start once more for 
•^ ■ America, but without the consent of Mr. 
Sirsuck. He offered to make me superintendent 
of some of his property, thinking I would settle 
down and live there always, but I felt that 1 
must see America. Mrs. Haddad did not wish 
io go either, but because my mind was on 
America, she made up her mind to go with me. 

We left Alexandria on Easter Sunday, April 
17th, 1892, after attending midnight Mass, and 
visiting several of the churches. From Alex- 
andria to Marseilles, France, the sea was very 
-calm. Mrs. Haddad enjoyed the trip very much, 
:although at first she was afraid of the ocean. 



54 Life op George Haddad 

After staying in Marseilles two days we left 
for Paris, and made connections at Havre, 
France, with a German steamer for New York, 
sailing April 26. Before leaving I met a Syrian 
who asked me where I was going, and said, **It 
is better for you to return on account of the 
language. ' ' But I did not mind him. I f oimd, 
however, when I got to America that I could 
learn the language by talking to the people I 
met in business. 

During our trip to New York we had some 
rough weather, but we arrived safely, on the 
4th of May, 1892. As we entered the harbor 
the most prominent object we could see was the 
great Statue of Liberty. I asked someone what 
it was, and he replied, ''That represents the 
Spirit of American Liberty.'' And I said, **I 
hope myself and my wife may have a share in 
this liberty.'' 

When we arrived at Ellis Island everv oflScial 
who met us was kind and courteous, and al- 
though no one spoke Syrian we got along be- 
cause Mrs. Haddad could speak good Italian. 
And so at last, in a small boat from the island, 
we came to the city. 



America at Last 55 

After landing we got a truckman to take our 
things to the home of Constantine Nemher, a 
Syrian who kept a drygoods store at 75 Wash- 



THE STATUR OF LIBERTY IN NEW YORK HABBOB 

ington Street and whom we knew only by the 
address given me by a friend in Marseilles. I 
afterwards remarked to Mrs. Haddad that I 
was the first man to land in New York from 



56 Life of George Haddad 

Barook, Lebanon, but now one hundred and 
seventy-five have come there from Barook. 
There were not many Syrian people in New 
York at that time either, perhaps three hundred, 
but in 1914 there were two hundred thousand 
in the United States. 

While I was with Mr. Nemher I wrote to my 
mother telling her we had arrived in America 
and how surprised we were to see the grand 
new country. Mr. Nemher was kind to us and 
after three days sent us to New Haven, Conn., 
where I began business, peddling goods which 
I had brought from Egypt and France, also 
some bought from Mr. Nemher. 

We stayed a month in beautiful New Haven. 
When we walked down along the bank of the 
Connecticut here we were reminded of our walks 
in Ramuld, when I first met Mrs. Haddad, but 
this only made my wife more lonely for her 
friends in Alexandria and on accoimt of not 
knowing the language, and she wanted me te 
return to the old country. We went out to Dan- 
bury, Conn., also a nice little city, with mul- 
berry trees like the ones we have in Syria, and 
we spent a day in New London, but finally we 



America at Last 57 

had to go back to New York to Mr. Nemher 
and tell him we were going to return to Egypt. 

Mr. Nemher persuaded us to try again, say- 
ing that when we got used to the country and 
knew friends here we would like America more 
than Egypt and would not wish to return. Ac- 
cordingly, we tried Albany, N. Y., where busi- 
ness was good, but we were still very lonesome. 

Three weeks later I met a Syrian, Mr. Abra- 
ham Shaha, who knew my people in Barook. 
He was very good to us, and suggested our 
going to North Adams, Mass., where there were 
a few Syrians from near Barook. We were very 
much pleased to hear of this and a few days 
after we went to North Adams, settled there, 
and kept a boarding house for a year and a 
half. While there I sent money to my mother 
for the first time from this country. 

While living in North Adams I used to travel 
around on business and so happened to reach 
Rutland, by way of Castleton. On first sight, 
Rutland pleased me immensely, especially as its 
mountains and its good water made me think 
I was in Barook again. I also liked its good 
railroad connections, going in four directions, 



58 Life of George Haddad 

and I found some Syrians living at Center Rut- 
land whom I had known in Egypt. I returned 
to North Adams and told my wife of * * Beautiful 
Vermont with its Green Moimtains," and we 
decided to move to Rutland, after selling our 
furniture. This was in August, 1894. 

We lived at Center Rutland at first, but Mrs. 
Haddad liked to come to Rutland to do her 
shopping and in October we moved to the city 
and have lived here ever since. All my six 
children, now living, were bom in Rutland. 
After a short time I sent money to my mother 
through Mr. Charles West of the Merchants 
National Bank and she sent me a letter with 
her blessing. 

In 1896 it became possible to buy some ori- 
ental goods from Damascus and Constantinople 
in New York. I travelled with goods of this 
kind, as I now do, and in 1897 added a line of 
oriental rugs and also introduced kimonas into 
Vermont. That same year my brother and 
nephew came to this country. I met them in 
New York and they were pleased with Rutland 
as I had been, and lived here several years. 
Some of my nephews are living in Rutland now. 



America at Last 59 

One summer, while I was traveling with 
goods, I went out to a military post to show 
samples at a house in the barracks. Just be- 
fore I arrived at the house I met the general 
starting out in his carriage, and said ^^Good 
morning" to him. While I was in the house 
showing my samples two soldiers came to the 
door and asked for me. The lady told me 1 
was wanted by the general and asked me what 
I had done. •! said, ** Nothing at all.'' I left 
my goods with her and went with the soldiers. 
When I arrived at the office the general asked 
me what I was doing in the barracks. I told 
him that I was showing my samples of oriental 
goods and he asked me where I was from, 
and if I knew any one in town. I told him I 
was from Rutland, Vermont, and also gave him 
the names of several people in the town where 
I was. He asked me my name and then went 
to the telephone and called up the people whose 
names I had given him, to see what they would 
say of me. Apparently, he was satisfied, as he 
then said he would like to see my goods and 
sent a soldier with me to get them. He bought 
a few pieces, for which I thanked him and then 



60 Life of Gecwge Haddad 

I shook hands with him and went out. He was 
a tall, pleasant-looking man, with a beard, and 
very well bnilt. 

The lady had asked me to return, and when 
I was on my way back an officer rapped on the 
window of his house for me,, and when I went 
in he asked what the general wanted of me. 
I said he had bought some goods from me, and 
the officer said he was to be married in a few 
weeks and would like to see soiAe nice things 
for his bride. He bought $65 worth of my 
goods. 

I thanked him and went on to the lady's 
house. She also asked me what the general 
wanted and I told her that he had asked me 
my name and bought some goods of me. Then 
she bought some also and I thanked her and 
went out well satisfied with my morning's 
work. 



CHAPTER IV 
VISITS TO SYBIA 



CHAPTER lY 

VISITS TO SYEIA 

A hearty welcome in the old country — Salhyeh and Saida — 
I take the family to Syria— The children take in the sights— 
Assin Bey and religious opinions — Beyrouth and the Sirsuck 
house — The carriage-ride to Barook — Buying rugs but not 
overlooking the Temple of the Sun — ^Aleppo and the caravan 
trade — ^Little Americans in Barook — Salhyeh again and the 
sights of Beyrouth — Egypt, France and finally America — 
Friendly conversation with Admiral Dewey — Another trip to 
Syria — The way to Damascus — The oldest city — The Omay* 
yade Mosque — Saladin and Emperor William— Various cities 
and towns — All well at home. 

TN 1899 I thought I would take a trip to the 
old country to. see my mother and friends. 
On October 15th, I sailed for Cherbourg, 
France, going from there to Marseilles by way 
of Paris. When Mr. Paul Nemher, my good 
friend, saw me coming into his house at Mar- 
seilles, he was surprised, and asked me where 
I came from. I said, ^ ^From the United States, ' ' 
which pleased him although before he had dis- 
couraged my going. He embraced me and asked 
for my story from the beginning to that time. 



M Life of Gbob^ Haim>ad 

After a two days' visit with Mr. Xemher at 
Marseilles, I sailed for Beyronth by way of 
Smyrna and Constantinople. Both of these 
cities are interesting from their harbors and 
my sight of the Dardanelles and the Sea of 
Marmora made their part in the present war 
of great interest to me, bnt we made no land- 
ing before onr arrival at Beyronth. 

My friends at Beyronth were all surprised 
and glad to see me as it was my first trip there 
from the United States, but I was anxious to 
get on to Barook and stayed there only two 
days. On my way to Barook I passed through 
many villages and I told all the acquaintances 
I saw what America was like, and they all said 
how much they wished to go there. 

About seven-thirty o 'clock, I reached a point 
just below the town of Barook, where I was met 
by many relatives and friends. The church 
bells began to ring and my mother, knowing 
that I must be near, ran out into the street 
before her house to look for me. But I first 
went to the church to thank God for my safe 
arrival. When I reached home I found there 
besides my mother and sisters many people. 



Visits to Syria 65 

both Christians and Druses. Some of them I 
knew but some were from another town. I 
shall never forget how the house was crowded. 

All the next week I spent in entertaining 
visitors. They gave me no chance to see my 
mother alone. T told them all of the grandeur 
of the United States and told my mother and 
relatives I wished they would come back with 
me. Many of them wished to come but my 
mother refused owing to her age. On my 
eleventh day there, I sent some men to get me 
cedar from Barook, and shipped it to Beyrouth 
to go to America. 

After staying at Barook about two weeks I 
told my mother and friends that I must return 
to my family in America. I bade them all good- 
by, then having kissed my mother's hand and 
received her blessing, I left for Salhyeh to see 
Mrs. Haddad's parents. They also were glad 
to see me and to hear all about my wife and 
children, and the people I met there also asked 
me many questions about America. This was 
the first time I had been in Salhyeh, or seen Mrs. 
Haddad 's family. 

While at Salhyeh I visited Saida several 



66 Life of Geoege Haddad 

times. This is a small city of less than 12,000 
inhabitants, about four miles west of Salhyeh, 
but it was in existence before the city of Tyre, 
under its old name of Sidon. Outside the city 
one may still see caves where people dwelt many 
hundreds of years ago, when this part of the 
world was Phoenicia. There are also ancient 
tombs, with coffins of granite, and relics of their 
civilization are constantly being found. I 
picked up and brought back with me to America 
a broken bit of glass. 

Two miles northeast of Saida is a stone 
bridge, which was built many hundreds of years 
ago, and there are ruined mills nearby. A mile 
to the east the ruins of a tower which had been 
partly covered by earthquakes, were dug out 
in 1896. I noticed many mulberry trees around 
the tower when I went there again, in 1907. 

The streets of Saida are narrow, some of them 
arched over with stone. Outside the walls are 
orchards, mostly oranges, and niear the city 
gate is the new Catholic Cathedral, the 
^* Church of Our Saviour,'' beautifully finished 
inside in marble with fine carving and rich 
painting. The balcony is reserved for women 



Visits to Syria 67 

and they have a special entrance at the west 
of the Church. Saida is the bishop's residence 
in winter; in summer he goes to Deir el-Ivanir, 
also in his diocese, of which, I will tell later. 
The church has a large orchard, with various 
fruits, and especially oranges, the best in Syria. 
From here they are shipped all over Syria and 
to other countries. 

While at Saida I visited Dr. Eddy, head of 
the American missionary school there, through 
whom I had sent money to people in Salhyeb 
and Sidon. After visiting him a few hours I 
found that he was a very intelligent man and a 
great help to the Syrians. All who knew him, 
loved him very much. He has done a great 
deal for the schools of Syria. I visited one of 
the schools and found the students industrious 
and proud of their school in old Saida. 

After a week at Salhyeh and Saida I spent 
another week in Beyrouth in order to buy goods, 
which I shipped with the cedar to New York. 
P sailed by way of Alexandria, Paris and Cher- 
bourg, as I had come, taking the American Line 
for New York. I arrived in New York the 25th 
of January, 1900, and after a few days there 



68 Life op George Haddad 

waiting to receive my goods, returned to Rut- 
land. My family were all glad to see me and 
I began travelling as before. 

In 1907 I received many letters from my 
mother saying that she wished to see my 
children so I decided I would go again to 
Syria, and this time take my entire family with 
me. I had then six children, Josephine, then 
eleven years old ; Emily, nine years old ; Lazera, 
seven years old; Elias, five years old; Hattie, 
two years old and Victoria, two months old. 
None of them had ever seen their grandmother, 
but the older children could understand and 
speak a little Syrian and knew something of the 
country. 

On October 15, 1907, .we left Rutland for 
New York, along with my brother Solomon, 
who had now lived in Rutland eleven years. 
He had planned to go back to Syria for some 
months. After a little over two weeks in New 
York we sailed on the steamer New York, of 
the American Line. My family then saw New 
York harbor for the first time and of course 
I was eager to point out the Statue of Liberty, 
which meant so much to me. 



Visits to Syria * 69 

Our trip from New York # to Cherbourg was 
calm and we were well treated by Captain W. 
J. Roberts, and the stewards. The ship's doc- 
tors visited our staterooms every day to see 
how the children were getting along. The 
stewardesses, Mrs. Williams and Miss Harris, 
were also very good to us all, and often took 
the children out on deck to get the air. The 
children were especially interested in the flying 
fish we saw far out at sea. 

The steamer touched at Plymouth, England, 
for a few hours only, then continued to Cher- 
bourg which we reached at about eight o'clock 
in the evening, after a trip of eight days on the 
sea. At ten o 'clock we left for Paris, where we 
had to wait from six o'clock in the morning 
until the middle of the afternoon, to make con- 
nections for Marseilles. Mrs. Haddad was of 
course very tired from the night ride and the 
care of the children, so we went to a hotel for 
lunch and a rest, and I hired three taxicabs to 
take us to the station. We drove by way of 
the principal streets of Paris, that the children 
might see the Arch of Triumph, on the Champs- 
Elysees, the beautiful statue of the Republic, 



70 Life of George Haddad 

and many other beauties of the city, all of which 
they enjoyed very much. 

The next day we arrived in Marseilles and 
Air. Paul Nemher was greatly surprised to hear 
that I was there and my family with me. He 
was anxious to see them and brought Mrs. 
Nemher with him to the hotel where we were 
staying. We spent twelve days at Marseilles, 
and during this time Mr. Nemher, being well 
accustomed to the city, took a great interest 
in showing us around. 

Our first trip was to the beautiful Church of 
Notre Dame de la Garde. This is at the top 
of a steep hill, and is reached by an inclined 
railroad. My wife and children preferred to 
walk up the hill, however, but we met the 
others outside the Church, where we could look 
up at the fine statue of Our Lady with her Son 
in her arms. Here we enjoyed the excellent 
view of the city and harbor, spread out as if 
on a table before us; and then we went into the 
Church, where I remember that some nuns were 
busy trimming the altar. 

The next day we spent at the Zoological gar- 
dens, taking our lunch with us. As you enter 



Visits to Svria 71 

the gardens, you see a large fountain, the water 
coming out of the mouth of a bull. Beyond is 
the entrance to the museum, fronted by statues 
representing the products of the field, the grape, 
the wheat, and the com. In the museum we 
found many things worth seeing, and then 
went through the great arch into the garden 



NOTRE DAME DE LA GARDE, MARSEILLES, SHOWING 
INCLIXED RAILWAY 



72 Life of George Haddad 

where the animals are. Children were playing 
in the garden, and during the afternoon the 
band played. We enjoyed our day there very 
much. 

On the steamer for Alexandria, a few days 
later, I had two of the children on deck with 
me when I met a Turkish oflScer by the name of 
Assin Bey. When I first saw him I did not 
know that he was an officer as he was not 
wearing his uniform. After greetings, I told 
him I was going to Barook, Lebanon, to see my 
people there, and he was much interested on 
hearing that I was taking my six children with 
me, as well as my wife. When he learned thai 
I was from the United States, he said, '*I 
would like to hear something about the United 
States. I have read much about it but would 
like to hear some more ; what does it look like ? ' ' 

I told him about what a grand country this 
is and how good the people here have been to 
me. He was especially interested in New York 
city and I told him about Brooklyn Bridge, 
Broadway, and Fifth Avenue, the American 
Museum of Natural History and the high build- 
ings downtown. I described Central Park, and 



Visits to Syria 73 

the Art Museum in the park, and then told some- 
thing of the beautiful scenery on the Hudson 
River which I had seen in going back and forth 
to Rutland. After this I told him of the large 
cities of Philadelphia and Washington, D. C. 
— the nation 's capital ; of Chicago, Boston, and 
Albany. He asked me if my home was in New 
York, but I said, *'No, it is in the city of Rut- 

land in Vermont State.'' 

' ' How far is it from New York ? " he asked. 

I told him about two hundred and forty miles, 
quite a distance in some countries but not in 
the United States, as it is only six hours' ride 
by train. He was greatly surprised, and then 
asked me if there were many factories in the 
United States. I said, ''Many of them, by the 
thousands, there are so many I can not mention 
them ; they are of all kinds. ' ' 

''How about religion in America?" 

I laughed and said, "Every man attends to 
his religion and it does not interfere with his 
business. I have a silver candlestick with me 
for the mosque in Damascus." He was sur- 
prised and said to me, "You are a Christian 



Visits to Syria 73 

and still are taking a candlestick to the mosque ? 
That must be a great country and good for all 
the people living there. Have you lived in 
America fifteen years, and not forgotten the 
mosque in Damascus?" I said, **No, I was so 
struck with its beauty when I was there before 
that I thought I would take the candlestick 
and give it as a present.'' 

Assin Bey had gone to Marseilles from Trip- 
oli and with his wife and son was now on his 
way to Mecca, by way of Beyrouth and Damas- 
cus. He was a tall and well built man about 
sixty-five years old. 

On our way to Alexandria the ocean- was very 
calm and we were seldom out of sight of land. 
About midway, when between Sicily and Italy, 
we could see the smoke curling up from Vesu- 
vius. A little farther on, we saw from a dis- 
tance the Island of Crete. 

We reached Alexandria on the fifth day at 
ten o'clock in the forenoon. Many of our 
friends met us at the dock, among them Mrs. 
Haddad 's aunts and cousins, who live there. We 
went to their home, and visited there eight 
days. During that time I took the family to see 



76 Li^E OP George Haddad 

many of the places where I had been before and 
the children were much pleased with the city. 
They particularly enjoyed a carriage ride over 
the fine concrete road to Ramuld. My friends 
at Ramuld were of course interested in seeing 
them. 

Before landing at Beyrouth, early on the third 
morning out of Alexandria, we could see at a 
distance the beautiful mountains of Lebanon. 
The tops of the mountains were covered with 
snow, set oflf by the green on their sides. Two 
miles before we landed I pointed out the red 
roofs of the American School and about a mile 
before we came into the city we could see the 
American flag over the office of the American 
Consul. When the children saw the flag they 
danced and clapped their hands, thinking them- 
selves in America again. 

When we were getting into the rowboat that 
takes passengers to shore at Beyrouth, Assin 
Bey and his family got into the same boat, 
and as he had on his uniform I knew he was a 
Turkish officer. When we landed he introduced 
me to some of the offi«cers in the custom house 
and I suppose he told them about the candle- 



Visits to Syria 77 

stick for the mosque. At any rate, one of them 
asked me if I had anything with me, but I 
did not have to pay duty on the candlestick. 
I shook hands with Assin Bey and he went his 
way, and we went to the hotel. About two 
o'clock a Turkish oflScer of the custom house 
came to the hotel with two Other men to oflfer 
their services, and I gave the officer the candle- 
stick to send to the mosque in Damascus. The 
next day I took my children with me to the 
office of the American Consul, who was very 
courteous to us. 

We stayed eight days at Beyrouth, which is 
the capital and largest seaport of Syria, and a 
very progressive city. Trains leave the dock 
for Damascus, making connections midway to 
Hama and Aleppo. 

In the center of the city of Beyrouth is the 
beautiful Serai or Capitol Square. Around it 
are many banks, cafes and hotels, besides the 
white stone Capitol. About two miles south- 
west of the Square are the fine buildings of the 
American school, which we had seen from the 
boat. The school is conducted by missionaries. 
It is the largest school in Syria and its students 



78 Life op George H.u)dad 

come from all over the world. Many languages 
are taught. While visiting here I met Dr. Bliss, 
who was then at the head of the school, and 
also some of the students. There are many 
other schools in the city of Beyrouth and over 
twenty thousand students.- We also visited the 
schools of the Convent of the Sisters of Charity 
and the Convent of Ladies of Nazareth. 

The streets of BevTouth are mostlv of stone, 
and narrow. They are always crowded and 
especially in the morning when people go to the 

• 

market. The shops are for the most part small 
and crowded together, but there are some large 
ones in the wider streets. Many of the new 
streets having jewelry stores have iron gate- 
ways that are locked every evening at a certain 
time. There are many silk factories in Bey- 
routh and a great amount of lace and embroid- 
ery is made there, as well as silk and woolen 
cloth. 

Many of the Christians of Beyrouth dress in 
the European style and the Mohammedans the 
same, except for their headdress which is a 
veil or a fez. 

While here, of course, I went to the home of 



. Visits to Syria 79 

Mr. Sirsuck, taking my two oldest daughters 
with me. Mrs. George Sirsuck, Mr. Sirsuck 's 
daughter-in-law, saw us coming and met us 
at the door. She was surprised to see us, but 
shook hands with me and kissed the children, 
and then took us to her mother's room. Mrs. 
Sirsuck was then a lady eighty-four years old. 
When she saw the children she was pleased and 
said to me, '* * George, George, have not you for- 
gotten us? God bless you." I told her I was 
in Beyrouth only for a short time on my way 
ho!me to Barook, and she asked me to visit her 
often while I was in the city. 

Mrs. George Sirsuck then took us to see her 
husband, who asked me many questions about 
America. The Sirsucks are very well known in 
America and Europe, and were invited to meet 
Elmperor William of Germany on his visit to 
Syria. 

When we were about to leave Mrs. Sirsuck 
gave each of my daughters a silk embroidered 
bag full of candy, and told me to show the 
children the different rooms in the mansion, 
which is the grandest home in Syria. I showed 



80 Life of George Haddad 

them the beautiful garden with its many differ- 
ent kinds of fruits and flowers. 

Perhaps a description of the house, which was 
seven years in building, may be of interest to 
American readers. The house is three stories 
high and is finished in marble, inside and out. 
Two marble lions guard the entrance, and at 
the door, reached by a flight of steps from 
either side, is the statue of the owner. This 
entrance is directly into a large square hall, 
which entirely surrounds the reception room, 
of which the walls are wholly cut glass and 
mirrors. Opening out of the entrance hall are 
the library and parlor, and smoking and din- 
ing rooms, and at the rear are rooms for an 
elaborate Turkish bath, kitchen, etc. The par- 
lor is opened only for special occasions; it is 
furnished with magnificent rugs and contains 
candlesticks of gold and silver, weighing cer- 
tainly twenty pounds. The floor of the dining 
room, instead of marble, is of wood inlaid in an 
elaborate pattern. Its walls are sculptured in 
representation of fruit and flowers. Its chan- 
delier is splendid enough for a church, and the 
state service is of gold and cost one hundred 



Visits to Syria 81 

and twenty-five thousand dollars. On the two 
upper floors are bedrooms for family and serv- 
ants, and in all the house contains over fifty 
rooms. 

We took carriage all the way to Barook, an 
all-day ride but the most comfortable way for 
my wife and children to travel. We passed 
through many villages, and along the roadside 
were many olive trees and different kinds of 
fruit trees. At three o'clock we arrived at J)cir 
el-Kamr and stopped to look around the town, 
especially the monastery. We met many old 
friends here. 

Deir el-Kamr has some good streets- pnd 
stores, and a few modem houses. The build- 
ing of the county court or Serai is good and 
there is a spring in the center of the town from 
which people draw their water. Many small 
towns do their trading in Deir el-Kamr. 

From here we could see ahead of us Beted- 
din, the capital of Lebanon for about a 
hundred years. I had been here before and 
spent several months. When we entered the 
square the soldiers were drilling. Their 
quarters are on the square, and beyond are 



82 Life op George Haddad 

the steps leading under a stone arch to the 
Serai, which is built upon a rock. On the arch 
is the name of the builder of the place inscribed 
in gold. The governor has lately greatly im- 
proved and enlarged the Serai, which serves as 
his summer residence. At the gate are guards 
and inside the court is a large fountain sur- 
rounded by the rooms in which the governor 
resides. In winter he resides in Babda. Since 
1827 Beteddin has been supplied with water 
coming from Ain Ez Halta, ten miles away. 

In the afternoon we continued our journey 
to Barook, a distance of seven miles, and two 
miles before arriving were met by many rela- 
tives and friends. Bonfires were built along 
the roadsides and we heard the church bells 
ringing in Barook. When we arrived at the 
house my mother was waiting for us at the 
door and also my sisters and other relatives, 
some of whom had come from a distance- 
When my mother saw the children she was so 
overjoyed that she cried. All were pleased to 
see us. We thanked God for our arriving there 
safely. 

For the next month people from in and out 



Visits to Syeia 83 

of town to the distance of thirty miles came 
to see us. When we would show them some 
of the things we had brought with us or sent 
from the United States they were surprised and 
especially when they saw our American stoves. 
The stoves in Syria are mostly made in France 
and England and not so handsome as the Ameri- 
can stoves. 

Barook had greatly improved and has some 
very good stores and new houses in modern 
style. 

After staying here about two months I left 
my family in Barook and with my cousin went 
on horseback twelve miles to Sofar where we 
took train to Baalbek, arriving there in the 
afternoon. This was a business trip to buy 
rugs at Aleppo, but we spent some time in the 
City of Baalbek. We went out to Ras el-Ain, 
the source of the water supply of Baalbek and 
about a mile from the city. 

Next morning we went to the ruins of the 
great Temple of the Sun, not far from the 
hotel. We entered at the northeast into what 
is called the Court of the Altar. High in the 
wall a flat stone has recently been set, carved 



84 Life op George H^vddad 

in the likenesses of Sultan Abd Hamid and 
Emperor William. We saw the six great col- 
umns of the Temple which are still standing; 
their height is about fifty feet, as I was told 
by a guard. A few stones remain upon the tops 



RAS EL-ATN, SOURCE OF BAALBEK'S WATEB SUPPLY 

of the columns. One of these oblong stones, 
elaborately carved, was on the ground and on 
measuring I found it to be about twelve feet 
long and eight feet wide. I also measured one 
of the columns and found it to be fifteen feet 
around. We climbed to the second floor of the 
Temple by seventeen steps cut out of the rock, 
and got a beautiful view of the city of Baalbek. 
We then went down beneath the Court of the 
Altar and walked through the arch, which we 



Visits to Syria 85 

were told is two hundred eighty feet long. The 
arch is built of stones of different sizes and just 
inside of it is an old carving of King Herk, 
with his staff in his right hand. We then went 
through the arch and gateway and came to the 
outside of the Temple. The three largest stones 
in the walls of the Temple are over sixty feet 
long, fourteen feet high and ten feet thick. To 
see all this, it took about four hours, but it was 
all well worth the while. 

About a mile from the Temple is the quarry 
from which the stones were taken. There is a 
stone at the quarry which is called in Syrian 
^^Hajr El-Kibla," which literally meaus ^^The 
stone of the pregnant woman.'' It is twelve 
feet thick, thirteen feet high and sixty-nine 
feet long, and weighs nearly a thousand tons. 
This was apparently cut for use in the Temple 
but never used. When we saw this we greatly 
wondered how those old Syrians could have ex- 
pected to handle so large a stone for the build- 
ing of the Temple. 

Wc spent another day looking around Baal- 
bek and about five-thirty the next morning we 
left for the city of ^^AUeb" or Aleppo. 



86 Life op George Haddad 

The train passed by the ruins of the city of 
Dorsi El-Harab and crossed the river of Asi 
Hama, at the old city of Hama, with its water- 
wheel and its beautiful gardens and orchards 
along the river; but we did not leave the train 
until we reached Aleppo, in the middle of the 
afternoon. 

When we got off the train we saw many 
thousands of people at the station who were 
there to meet friends coming from Mecca '^El- 
HajV meaning on pilgrimage. Some of the 
people meeting the pilgrims were on horseback 
and some in carriages, while others were walk- 
ing. It took us fully thirty minutes to get away 
from the crowd to our hotel. The Mohammedan 
people believe that when any of them go to 
Mecca on a pilgrimage, their relatives and 
friends who meet them on their return also get 
the blessing. 

Aleppo is a very old city, with many arched 
streets. It has a few fine churches and a mon- 
astery. Its bath-houses, owned by the Turks, 
are very fine, and there are coffee-houses every- 
where, for Turks, Syrians and Greeks. Cos- 
tumes of many nations, American, Turkish, 



Visits to Syria 87 

Jewish, Arabian and Egyptian, are common in 
the streets. Outside of the city are many kinds 
of fruit and nut trees and the best of these are 
thousands of pistachios. There are also many 
mulberry trees, some of them fifteen feet in cir- 
cumference, and with fruit like large black- 
berries which is eaten by the people of the dis- 
trict. 

We went to see the old fortress of Aleppo, 
outside the gates of the city, built on a great 
mound half a mile across, and somewhat in- 
jured by earthquakes, which have also done 
much injury within the city. A little distance 
from the fort is a large level where sheep are 
brought by the thousands and sold to the mer* 
chants' to be shipped to different parts of the 
country. 

Merchants come to Aleppo through the desert 
from Diarbekir, Bagdad, Mosul and Mardeen, 
each having a different trade. Their goods are 
loaded on horses or camels, sometimes on mules, 
as there is, or was then, nd railroad beyond Alep- 
po. While here we saw a caravan of five 
hundred horses comitig into the city, loaded 
mostly with rugs and dates. It took three- 



88 Life op George Haddad 

quarters of an hour to pass the hotel and filled 
the street, four horses abreast, with a driver 
to every four. I sat in the window to see them 
pass. I asked where this caravan came from, 
and the hotel man told us it was from Bagdad. 
He told me a great deal about Bagdad, which 
is called by the Islams, ^ ^ Dar-el-Salaam ' ' or 
^'City of Peace.'' 

Bagdad was established about the year 762 
A. D., and in 'the ninth century, at the time of 
Caliph Haroun-Al-Raschid, it was the seat of 
Arabic learning and literature. Its decay has 
been brought about by severe sieges, by 
plagues, and finally,' the loss of a large part of 
their caravan trade, due to the opening up of 
more expeditious routes from India to Europe. 

The city lies on both sides of the Tigris, 
which may be crossed only by a bridge of boats 
220 yards long. It was once surrounded by a 
brick wall with a gate in each direction, but 
this has now mostly fallen in ruins or been re- 
moved by the soldiers of Midhat Pasha. The 
place looks picturesque from the outside but 
the streets are dirty and narrow and the houses 
without windows on the streets. The insides of 



Visits to Syria 8i) 

the houses, however, are often gorgeous, with 
rich mouldings, inlaid mirrors and massive, 
gildings. The mosques and bazaars are the 
most noticeable of the buildings. There were 
a hundred mosques but now almost all of them 
are in ruins. 

The population of Bagdad is said to be 200,- 
000, made up of Arabs, Christians, Turks, Jews, 
Hindoos, Persians and Afghans. Most of its 
merchants are Jews, who deal in Arabian 
horses which they send to India. Various 
kinds of cloth are manufactured, also red and 
yellow leather. There is an important trade in 
wheat, dates and timbac, a kind of tobacco used 
in the narghileh. 

The dates come largely from Basra, two 
hundred miles beyond Bagdad and the largest 
date market in the world. This Turkish port, 
which has a population of 50,000, is situated 
on the Shatt el -Arab (on the junction of the 
Tigris and Euphrates), about seventy miles 
from the head of the Persian Gulf. 

Besides dates, the exports of Basra are cere- 
als, wood, dried fruit and licorice root. Its im- 
ports are Manchester goods, copper, and yarn. 



90 Life of George Haddad 

East India goods, tea, gunny sacks, and spices. 
From Egypt, Australia and Marseilles comes 
the sugar; from Sweden iron; from Aus- 
tria and Germany, glassware, cutlery and 
crockery. The exports are largely by for- 
eigners, the imports by natives. 

Wool comes into Bagdad largely from Mosul, 
a large district of Mesopotamia on the bank of 
the Tigris above Bagdad, and the third largest 
sheep market in the world. The city of Mosul 
has 70,000 inhabitants who devote themselves 
almost exclusively to the rearing of sheep,, of 
which it is estimated that there are 4,000,000. 
Gallnuts, raisins, corn, peas, figs, goatskins 
and cattle are, however, exported in some quan- 
tities in exchange for coffee, indigo^ timbac, 
cotton thfead, haberdashery, hardware, sugaf, 
iron, dates, hides, Manchester goods, and spices. 

I bought my rugs in the market of Aleppo, 
and shipped them to Barook, to be re-shipped 
to New York. On the eleventh day we started 
on our three-day jolimey home. 

When I got back to Barook I asked Mrs. Had- 
dad how She and the children liked Barook 
and what they had been doing. She Said the 



Visits to Syria 91 

children had enjoyed themselves very much and 
had made many acquaintances. She sent them 
to the American-Syrian school every day and 
they loved their teacher and classmates. On 
afternoons when their teacher took the children 
on long walks or on picnics to the Spring she 
allowed my son Elias to lead the children, car- 
rying the American flag, which made him feel 
very proud. After school the children with 
some of their friends would play among the 
fig-trees or on the hill. Mrs. Haddad told me 
how Elias would take his uncle 's donkey, some- 
times without his mother's permission, and ride 
him about half a mile to the river. He was not 
of course accustomed to riding but the donkey 
was too slow to be dangerous, even for a small 
boy. 

When mother knew we were about to return 
to the United States she cried and begged the 
children to make me stay, but the children were 
more anxious to get back to the United States 
than I was. They told mother they could not 
get used to staying in Barook but she tried very 
hard to get them to feel differently, telling them 
of the beautiful summer time that was coming, 



92 Life op George Haddad 

of the groves of the cedars of Lebanon, which 
we could see from onr home, and of the Spring 
where the water rises. All this made no dif- 
ference in our decision. We tried very hard 
on the other hand to get mother to come with 
us but she refused on account of her age. 

On Thursday, April 16, 1908, after bidding 
my mother, relatives and friends goodbye, we 
heard a special Mass and then left Barook at 
8:30 o'clock in the morning, as usual by way 
of Sofar and Beyi*outh. Some of our friends 
went with us to a mile or so outside the town. 

We reached Beyrouth late in the afternoon 
two days before Easter and spent Sunday there, 
that we might attend Mass at the Cathedral. 
On this day the Cathedral was full to its cap- 
acity and people even had to stay outside to 
witness at least the Procession of the Blessed 
Sacrament. The chandeliers of gold and silver 
were blazing with lights, a great sight for the 
children. 

The next day we started, over a fine dry road, 
for Salhyeh, where we were to visit Mrs. Had- 
dad 's mother, Mrs. Aschkar, for two weeks. 



, / 



Visits to Syria 93 

This is a small town in the state of Lebanon, 
next to Sidon. 

The road leaves the city of Beyrouth through 
a pine grove a mile long, and just beyond are 
olive trees, which grow so closely over the 
road as to shut out the sun. Beyond the olive 
orchard the road runs by the sea, and here, 
about midway between Beyrouth and Salhyeh, 
we had dinner at a new hotel, where we could 
enjoy a rest by the ocean. 

We came to Salhyeh about five o 'clock in the^ 
afternoon and many people were on the road 
to meet us. When we came to Mrs. Haddad's 
old home, besides her mother and relatives we 
found many of her friends there to welcome us. 
Mrs. Haddad's family were overjoyed at seeing 
the children and did everything to please them, 
but they blamed me for not having taught the 
children more Syrian. 

Salhyeh is a small town of only about a 
hundred houses, all built of white stone and 
not over two stories high. Most of the houses 
are old. There are many orchards around the 
town, including olive, fig, and apricot trees and 
grapevines. The people also raise wheat and 



94 Life op Geobgp Haddad 

barley for their own use, and care for silk 
worms much the same as in Barook. In the 
town are merchants in tobacco, olive oil and 
figs. Some of the people occupy their time in 
weaving silk and wool, but mostly wool. 

The time soon came when we must return to 
Beyrouth, especially as we wanted a few days 
there for business and pleasure before sailing 
for New York. This time we made an extra 
stop at a place which many years ago was the 
city of Halde. Now only two houses are stand- 
ing, besides the hotel, and a pretty church 
which is always open for visitors. 

On the third day in Beyrouth I took my 
children to the garden named after Rustum 
Pasha, the third governor of Mt. Lebanon. The 
garden is about five miles from the city and a 
favorite resort in summer. On one side of the 
garden is a stone tomb six feet long and four 
feet wide; it is claimed that it was the tomb 
of a king's daughter, and that it was found 
in the garden. The cover, which is broken, is 
in the shape of a triangle and on it is an old 
inscription. When the children saw this tomb 
they admired it very much, and wished that we 



Visits to Syria 95 

might take it with us to the United States for 
the Museum. This idea amused me very much. 
I told them I wished we could but it certainly 
is too heavy to bring over. 

We returned to Beyrouth from the garden 
by a different road, through pine groves and 
fruit orchards, figs, plums and apricots. There 
were also manv mulberrv trees such as the silk- 
worms feed on, but the silk factory near the 
Bridge of Beyrouth was closed when we were 
there, so I could not show the children how the 
silk is made. 

A short distance from the factory I showed 
them the ruins of the old church of Mar Jurjus, 
or St. George, which I have visited many times, 
as it is within sight of the Sirsuck house. The 
Moslems have a meeting place on a corner of 
the ruins. Besides being the patron saint of 
England and of the Christians of Syria, St. 
George is a much beloved hero of the Moslems 
and Arabs. He was born, and buried as well, 
in Lydda, a village which I passed while on 
my way to Jerusalem from Jaffa, and his tomb 
is still shown there. When I was young I often 
heard the following story of St. George. 



ST. GEORGE, PATRON SAINT OF feTRIA 



Visits to Syria 97 

It seems that the people of the district around 
Beyrouth were in such terror of a horrible sea- 
monster, that despairing of ever ridding them- 
selves of the pest they had been forced into 
presenting to the monster, with other tribute, 
an annual sacrifice of one of their most beauti- 
ful young women. The choice was by lot, and 
one year the lot indicated the king's daughter. 
When at the place appointed for the sacrifice 
she waited praying for deliverance, behold St. 
George appeared to her, and relying on the 
power of Christ began the struggle which wasi 
to deliver the princess and free the city. 

It is said that in honor of St. George the 
king built the Church, the ruins of which we 
had just seen. 

Next day I shipped my goods and on the 10th 
day of May, 1908, we left Beyrouth for New 
York, by way of Port Said and Alexandria, 
Egypt. At Port Said we went ashore and I 
bought some goods, sending them to New 
York. We reached Alexandria the next morn- 
ing, stayed a day, then sailed for Marseilles, 
France, arriving there the 19th of May. After 
stayinsf at Marseilles a week we left for Paris, 



98 Life op George Haddad 

where we did some shopping while waiting six 
hours for our connections for Cherbourg. 
Cherbourg is a beautiful city having magnifi- 
cent buildings and streets, and a very good 
harbor. On the 29th of May at five o'clock in 
the afternoon we left Cherbourg for New York 
on the New York- American Line. 

On the fifth day of our trip a concert was 
held on the steamer for the aid of orphanages 
and other charitable institutions. Two of my 
little girls, Emily and Lazera Haddad, took 
part, singing '^Marching through Georgia." 
The chairman was Mr. Charles Sladdin. Others 
taking part were: Mr. W. Stevens, Mrs. Pale- 
loghe, Mr. A. J. Downer, Miss Phillips, Mrs. 
Boneheys, Mr. J. Fuller, Misses Pearl and Cor- 
inne Gillette, Mr. A. J. Allen, Miss Frederiksen, 
Mr. A. Spiman and Mrs. Hill, these people 
representing both America and Europe. 

On the 6th of June, Saturday afternoon, we 
came into New York harbor. During all our 
trip from Beyrouth to New York, we had not 
seen a day that the ocean was rough, so that the 
sailors themselves were surprised. "We older 
people thanked God for our safe arrival and 



Visits to Syeu 99 

the children showed their pleasure at seeing 
New York by loud cheers. 

After a few days in New York we took the 
boat to Albany, taking the train from there 
by way of Saratoga Springs to Rutland, where 
many friends were at the station to welcome 
us, after our absence of seven months. It was a 
pleasure to me to realize that Mrs. Haddad 
was as pleased as any of us to get back to 
America. 

After our home here was settled I resumed 
my business of selling oriental goods. 

On August 15th, 1911, I met Admiral George 
Dewey, one of our great Vermont citizens, in 
the oflSce of the Woodstock Inn at Woodstock, 
Vermont, where I have seen him often since. 
I had been told that the Admiral was staying 
at the hotel, so when I saw a man of his general 
appearance and surrounded by a number of 
men I knew it must be the Admiral. 

Admiral Dewey is a tall, well built man. He 
is of light complexion, has a high forehead and 
beautiful eyes and gray hair. One always finds 
him smiling. He looks to be a brave and fear- 
less man. 



7801 87 



100 Life op George Haddad 

I approached him and said ''Good Morning, 
Admiral." He said ''Good Morning/' and a 
few minutes after he came out into the hallway 
where I was standing and said to me, "Are 
you a Syrian ?' ' I said, yes, and told him what 
part of Syria I came from. '*Very good,'' he 
said, ' ' I have been to Syria eight times, my first 
trip in 1865 and my last trip in 1903, and 1 
visited the American school there at Beyrouth. 
T like the Syrian people very much, I know many 
of them; they make good citizens and are very 
good workers. Where do you live?" I answer- 
ed, "In Rutland, Vermont." He was pleased, 
especially when I told him I had six children 
all bom in Rutland. I told him there were 
twenty-five or more Syrians in Rutland. 

Seeing my goods, he said, ' ' I suppose you deal 
in oriental goods? I hope your business is 
good" I said, "Yes, thank God, it is very 
good. ' ' 

He afterwards shook hands with me and I 
said to him, "Admiral, I am very glad to have 
met you, I feel proud of it, would you like it if 
I should have it published in the Syrian paper, 
'The Daily Mirror,' published in New York?" 
This he was willing to permit. 



Visits to Syria 101 

I have many times since looked at the portrait 
of Admiral Dewey in the State House at Mont- 
pelier, capital of Vermont state, and thought 
of his pleasant conversation with me. I go 
often to the capital, which is an attractive little 
<3ity, with well-kept homes and shady streets. 
The capitol building is of granite, in which that 
part of the state is very rich, and a fine lawn 
stretches before it over three hundred feet to 
the street line. The design is one common for 
such buildings in America, with fluted columns 
and a dome, and the rooms are spacious and 
richly furnished. At the entrance is a marble 
statue of Ethan Allen, one of the early patriots 
of Vermont. 

In 1914 I received so many letters from my 
mother and my Aunt Martha who also lives in 
Barook, urging me to come there, that I finally 
made up my mind to go to see them. I left Rut- 
land April 5, 1914, sailing for Havre, France, 
on the 9th, on a French ' steamer from New 
York. I spent Easter Sunday on the ocean. 
Mass was held in the morning and later in the 
day all on board enjoyed a concert rendered 
by some of the passengers. The ocean was 
•calm, as is usually my good fortune. 



102 Life of George Haddad 

From Havre I went by train as usual to Paris 
and spent a day at Marseilles with Mr. Paul 
Nemher. His wife persuaded him to go to 
Barook to spend the summer with me, but as 
he could not start at once and I was in a great 
hurry, I left a week before him. I sailed for 
Alexandria and then for Beyrouth by a direct 
line that brought me there the seventh day from 
Marseilles. 

When I arrived at the hotel in Beyrouth I 
was surprised to see my uncle, who was in Bey- 
routh on business. He went back to Barook the 
same day and told my mother and relatives that 
I was in Beyrouth, and so when I arrived the 
next evening I found all waiting for me, and 
very glad to see me. For the next week I had 
visitors, both Christians and Druses, all asking 
me about America. There are few there now 
that have not some relative in the United 
States or in South America. 

I intended to stay all summer in Syria but 
within a very short time I had a letter from my 
son in America asking me to return home at 
once, though when I returned I found nothing 
especially wrong with the family. In two weeks 



Visits to Syria 103 

I bade my mother goodbye and started for 
home. When Mr. Paul Nemher arrived, a week 
after I did, he was much surprised when I 
told him that I was going to leave the next 
week, and I was very sorry to disappoint him. 
He did, however, stay and visit in Barook, but 
only for a short time. Mr. Nemher was born in 
Barook but left there for Marseilles when he 
was fourteen. He had been back but once be- 
fore and that was over thirty years ago. 

For the next few days I had a girl writing 
for me to different friends in America. I sent 
over four hundred cards from Barook, besides 
the ones I sent from other places on my trip. 

I left for Damascus by way of Ain Es-Halta 
and Sofar. At Ain Es-Halta, which is only five 
miles north of Barook, is a very old American 
day school which teaches in English and 
Syrian. This is in a substantial stone build- 
ing and there are some very good residences, 
both American and English, besides the houses 
of Syrians. There is a wonderful spring and in 
the pine groves by the river many summer 
hotels have been built. There are three wheat 
grinders here, their water being supplied from 
the river. 



104 Life of George Haddad 

Sofar, a little farther on, is the largest sum- 
mer resort in Mt. Lebanon. The city of Bey- 
routh and the Mediterranean can be seen very 
plainly from the high mountain on which the 
city is built. When I saw how greatly Sofar 
had been improved since I had seen it, I was 
much surprised. The hotel and many of the 
residences are in modem style and many tour- 
ists come here from Europe, Egypt and Bey- 
routh. 

From here I took the train to Damascus, 
passing through .regions of orchards, especially 
walnut and apricot trees. This is a thickly 
populated country and some of the towns are 
apparently very old. About fifteen miles be- 
fore reaching Damascus the train began to run 
through the valley of the Barada .River, -which, 
a few miles west of the city, is drawn off into 
seven small branches which flow in different dir 
rections and supply the orchards and some 
parts of the city. The city is surrounded by 
orchards and vineyards. Walnut and olive trees 
are numerous, and the most common fruits are 
plums and pears. 

When I arrived in Damascus, late in the 
afternoon, I knew just where to go as I had 



Visits to Syria 105 

» • * 

been there before. There were many porters 
and carriages around the station and I hired 
one of the carriages and drove to the hotel. 

It is claimed that Damascus is the oldest city 
in the world. Some histories say that is was 
named after the grandson of Noah, Dimeshk. 
As the full name for the city is Dimeshk-Es- 
Sham, some say also that it was named after 
Shem, the son of Noah, but others say it was 
named from the white, red and black * * Chemet, ' ' 
or clay, which is found in the ground. At any 
rate, it is so old that in Genesis 15 is the story 
of Father Abraham passing through the city, 
and his servant Eliezer was from Damascus. 

Damascus has been under the rule of differ- 
ent kingdoms, being part of the time independ- 
ent; In the year 634 A. D., it was taken by the 
Arabs and was under their rule until 1517, when 
it was taken by Sultan Salene and has since 
been under Turkish rule. In going on pilgrim- 
age to Mecca, Islams plan to start from Damas- 
cus as they believe that Damascus is their Holy 
City, next to Mecca. Hadiji, wife of Moham- 
med, was from Damascus. 



106 Life op George Haddad 

The religious communities, Christians, Jews 
and Mohammedans, occupy different quarters 
of the city and the different industries also 
have each its separate quarter. The rug deal- 
ers do business in the Bazaar of Humidia, 
where are the largest shops. Among the other 
bazaars I went to were those of the silver- 
smiths, the shoemakers, and the sellers of 
books. On either side of the narrow streets are 
the rows of arched niches in which are the 
shops. Each shopkeeper sits cross-legged with 
his wares piled up around him awaiting cus- 
tomers. When I went in, the shopkeeper would 
invite me to a cup of coffee and a narghileh. 
In Damascus there are merchants from different 
countries, Americans, English, French, Bel- 
gians, Germans, Austrians, Russians, Rouman- 
ians, Greeks, Italians, Spanish, Moroccans, 
Egyptians, Arabians, Hindoos, Persians, Ar- 
menians, Turks, Jews and Syrians. Each 
nationality wears a different costume except 
the Europeans, who all dress alike. 

The Islam women of Damascus wear over 
their dresses a cloth called the Hubra, which 
covers the whole of the dress, and is tied with 



Visits to Syria 107 

a cord around the waist. Some of these Hubras 
are of silk and very expensive, while others are 
of linen and cotton, but each woman dresses 
according to her means. They cover their faces 
except their eyes with a veil, called the Ysmack. 
Of course there are many Jewish and Christian 
women who go on the street with their heads 
and not their faces covered with shawl or 
scarf, and others dress in European style. 

Near St. Thomas' Gate, in the eastern sec- 
tion of the city, the Christians reside. The 
houses here are very old, but are neatly kept. 
I was invited to a house in this district and I 
was surprised to see, in the central court of 
the house, a fountain and garden of flowers. 

There are many looms of all kinds in Da- 
mascus, silk, wool, and cotton; the noise which 
they make is heard to the street. Furniture of 
black walnut, carved and inlaid with mother 
of pearl, is also manufactured in the city. The 
city now has electric cars, though not as large 
as the ones in Rutland, electric lights and many 
improvements. 

Outside of the old city wall, of which little 
remains, are the finest streets of the city. Here 



108 Life op George Haddad 

are the hospitals, and maay modem houses. 
Here also are many beautiful gardens and coflfee 
houses where tables are set out under spread- 
ing trees and are surrounded by tiny streams 
of running water. Men spend their evenings 
here, some drinking coffee as slowly as they 
like, others passing their time smoking a narg- 
hileh or waterpipe. 

There are many other streets in the city 
which are good and the coffee houses are every- 
where; I do not know how many coffee houses 
there are in Damascus, but I am told that there 
are thousands, and certainly on nearly every 
street you pass, you find five or six of them. 
When the coffee houses are full people who wish 
to spend their evenings there place their chairs 
on the sidewalk and enjoy themselves. Op- 
posite the governor's Serai, or capitol, is the 
American hotel. There are some fine German 
houses not far from this square, and the city 
has many other good tourist hotels, mostly on 
the river, and elaborate bath houses in Turkish 
style. 

About 34 A. D. Saul of Tarsus, ** breathing 
out threatenings and slaughter'' against the 



Visits to Syria 109 

Christians, was sent to Damascus, by the high 
priest of Jerusalem, to arrest the Christians. 
He had a vision of Christ on the road, and wa? 
baptized in Damascus by Ananias, and remain- 
ed there to preach the doctrine he had so bit- 
terly opposed. There are still many Christian 
churches in Damascus and I visited two of 
them. They were much alike, with high altar 
of sculptured marble, roof supported on col- 
umns, and low hung chandeliers of silver and 
gold. 

I went to the mosque of ^^Mar Hanna," bet- 
ter known as the Omayyade Mosque, once the 
church of St. John. At the gateway from the 
street I met a guard and told him I wanted to 
go into the mosque. He told me I was welcome, 
but to take off my shoes before going in. After 
leaving my shoes with him, I entered through 
the yard, which is about as large as the mosque, 
into the building itself. The shyck in charge 
of the mosque took me around to show me 
everything. I asked him the size of the build- 
ing and he told me nearly 500 feet long and 
300 feet wide. 

The first thing I noticed was the floor, which 



110 Life op Geoboe Haddad 

is entirely covered with rags in different sizes 
and colors. They are all beautiful. Next was 
the tall columns. The chandeliers of silver and 
gold hang from the ceiling so low that they 
can almost he reached by a tall man. There 
are of conrse prayer-niches in the south wall 
toward ilecca, and on the same side is the pul- 
pit, tall and elaborately inlaid in silver and 
ivory and mother-of-pearl. 

The shyck took me to the grave of St. John 
between two of the columns, and told me before 



TOMB OF ST. JOHN JN OMATTADB MOSQUE, 
DAMASCUS 



Visits to Syria 111 

the Islams took possession of it, this portion 
of the mosque was a church. The grave is 
marked by a sort of shrine with highly decor- 
ated dome, which is said to contain the head 
of John the Baptist, after whom the church 
was named. The shrine is about the size of 
the Chapel of the Sepulchre at Jerusalem but 
seemed to me smaller, I suppose because inside 
of another building. Just below the shrine 
there are two steps where worshippers may 
kneel. The shrine is surrounded by an iron 
fence, and on the top of its dome has been 
placed a crescent. When I knew that this was 
the tomb of St. John I knelt down and prayed. 

The next day I went to the barracks or fort, 
not a long distance from the Omayyade mosque. 
The barracks is eight hundred feet long and six 
hundred feet wide. It is surrounded by differ- 
ent rooms, among them the rooms of one of 
the prisons. The prison yard seemed clean and 
there was a large hall between the rooms where 
the prisoners sleep and spend most of their 
time. 

Before leaving Damascus, I visited the tomb 
of Saladin. Saladin was bom in the city of 



112 Life op George Haddad 

Tekreit in 1137 and died in Damascus on March 
4, 1193. He was the ablest ruler of Syria and 
Egypt during the period of the Crusades, and 
wrested Jerusalem from the Christian govern- 
ment that had been set up there. A tremend- 
ous army headed by the emperor of Germany 
and the kings of France and England set out to 
fight him and finally the coast of Palestine from 
Jaffa to Tyre was yielded to the Christians, 
but there was never again any permanent 
Christian government at Jerusalem. The mosl 
conspicuous battle of this period was his de- 
feat by Richard Coeur de Leon in the battle of 
Ascalon, aiundred miles south of Acre. 

When Emperor William visited Damascus in 
the fall of 1898, he visited this tomb and I had 
read so much about it at this time that I 
thought I would visit it. 

I told the guard at the gate that I wished to 
see the tomb of Saladin. He said I was wel- 
come and led me through a garden of flowers 
to a door which he unlocked, and within were 
two tombs, one of Saladin and the other of 
Nourdin, who ruled before him. The toinbs are 
of marble with inscriptions of gold in the 



Visits to Syria 113 

Arabic language, and the walls and floors of 
the room are of marble. On each end of the 
torn!) of Saladin were laid wreaths of beautiful 
work in gold. I asked the guard who sent the 
crowns to be placed on Saladin 's tomb. He 
said, ** Emperor William did." I said, **Very 
good, indeed. '^ 

After viewing the city and doing my trading 
here I left for Beyrouth by way of Zebedani. 
Fine apples grow in abundance in this high 
valley sheltered by the highest summits of the 
range, and I was of course reminded of going 
there with my cousin when I was a young boy, 
to buy apples to sell in Beyrouth. Precipitous 
heights, though one can see snowy Hermon, shut 
oflf the distant view, but between these heights 
is a well-watered and fertile valley, with level 
wheat fields and fertile garden spots. Long 
lines of poplar trees and low grapevines give 
character to the scene. 

I left Zebedani and stopped in Alieh, about 
ten miles from Beyrouth, and having a good 
view of the city. Alieh is a well known summer 
resort and Emperor William stayed here when 
he was visiting in Syria in the fall of 1898. 



114 Life of George Haddad 

While here he was entertained by the governor 
of Syria and by the governor of Lebanon. Mr. 
and Mrs. Sirsnck were at some of these enter- 
tainments and met the Emperor. 

After a few days at Beyrouth spent in ship- 
ping my goods and bidding my friends good- 
bye I left on May 28 for Alexandria, Egypt, 
and after three days' stay there I went on to 
Marseilles, France. 

On my arrival at Marseilles I went at once 
to the home of Mr. Paul Nemher. Mrs. Nem- 
her was much surprised to see me and asked 
me where I had left Mr. Nemher. I told her he 
was still in Barook but that I had received a 
letter from my son asking me to come home 
at once, so she must not blame me for return- 
ing so soon. After two days here I left for 
Paris on the 12th of June. 

In Paris I stayed five days, during that time 
ordering goods and seeing as much as possible 
of the city. I became well acquainted with a 
Mr. Simon of San Francisco and we went to 
various places together, among them the Cath- 
edral of Notre Dame, and the wonderful Eiffel 
Tower, which I had never visited before. 



Visits to Syria 115 

We bought tickets and took the elevator to 
the first gallery, where there are restaurants, 
shops and theatre. We were told that upon the 
steps, and in the corridors, restaurants, shops 
and theatre, ten thousand people can assemble 
in the Tower, and we could believe it. We then 
went up to the second gallery, where I bought 
many cards and souvenirs, and then most of 
the party continued to the top, changing ele- 
vators at the third gallery and finally climb- 
ing the stairs to a point a thousand feet above 
the ground. Mr. Simon and I, however, waited 
for the others on the fourth gallery and enjoyed 
the view of the city. From this height the 
people in the streets looked as small as insects. 

After ordering my goods to be shipped to 
New York, I left Paris for Cherbourg on the 
eighteenth of June, and that same evening 
sailed for New York on the Imperator. I ar- 
rived in New York on the twenty-fifth, and as 
soon as possible went on to Rutland. 

I found my family all well, which I was very 
much pleased, and of course, surprised to see. 
Mrs. Haddad and the children were surprised 
to see me back so soon and apparently still 



116 Life op George Haddad 

thought I was going to spend the whole sum- 
mer away. When I told Mrs. Haddad of the 
letter I had received from my twelve-year old 
son, telling me to come home at once, she said 
that she did not know anything about it. But 
two weeks after I was very glad that I had 
returned, because war broke out in Europe. 

Mrs. Haddad said that the children had got 
along all right while I was away but that Vic- 
toria whom we call the baby was always ask- 
ing where I was. In fact, all the children were 
asking what their father went away for and 
when he was coming back. Elias was a good 
boy and he did everything to please his mother 
and sisters. When the children received cards 
or letters from me, they were very glad, think- 
ing that I was on my way home. 

My brother Solomon came from Pittsfield 
and stayed here a week with them and the 
children were much pleased to see him. Also 
while I was away Mrs. Haddad 's niece. Miss 
Zakie Aschkar, had come from Salhyeh to live 
with us. This will always be a great pleasure 
to my daughters, who are near her age, and it 
is nice to feel that she is out of the danger from 
the war. 



Visits to Syria 117 

If I had known that the war was going to 
break out I would have insisted on my mother 's 
coming from Barook with me. When I left 
her in 1914 she was eighty years old and she 
had sixty-two grandchildren and great-grand- 
children. As thirty-four of them live in the 
United States she ought not to be very lone- 
some here. She was in very good health and 
went to church almost every morning when 1 
was there, and the day I left her, she gave me 
her blessing and wished success to me and all 
lier grandchildren. 




CHAPTER V 
THE NEW HOME IN AMERICA 



CHAPTER V 
THE NEW HOME IN AMERICA 

Situation of Rutland, Vermont — A prosperous little city — 
Educational facilities good — Various organizations — Theatres, 
banks, restaurants and hotels — Provision for the sick and the 
erring — Industries of Eutland — The Fair. 

THAVE mentioned before that I first liked 
Eutland because of its railroad connections, 
going in four directions, to Boston, and 
Montreal, and by two roads to New York. The 
distance to New York is 237 miles; to Boston 
167 miles; and to Montreal 163 miles. The train 
service is very good and pleases every travel- 
ing man. The city is the headquarters of the 
Rutland Railroad. 

When we first came to Rutland there were 
no electric railway cars but only horse cars 
which went as far as West Rutland ; the electric 
cars started in the fall of 1894 and now go as 
far as Lake Bomoseen, Fair Haven and Poult- 
ney. There are also stages over the mountains 
to Woodstock, Rochester and Pittsfield. 



122 Life of George Haddad 

The population of Rutland in 1900 was 11,- 
499 and in the present year is about 16,000. 
The people of Rutland treat strangers very 
well, for I know that when we moved to Rut- 
land we had no friends here but in a short time 
we had many. It is pleasant to do business 
among them, a fact that I realize when I open 
a store here every year before Christmas and 
the people show their appreciative interest. 

The business section of Rutland is very good. 
As it is on a level, in the Otter Creek valley, 
the traveler arriving in Rutland can see from 
the station wide streets, well paved and so bril- 
liantly lighted as to remind me of Paris. There 
are many large stores, especially the ones on 
Merchants Row, Center and West streets, and 
the clerks are for the most part good-natured 
and cheerful. 

Vermonters own many automobiles, the pro- 
portion being one to every thirty-five men, 
women and children in the state. The city of 
Rutland requires eight garages, employing ex- 
pert repairmen and having desirable storage 
room, besides numerous agencies for machines, 
and sellers of accessories. One of the largest 



The New Home in America 123 

fireproof garages in the state has recently been 
erected here. 

The city's churches are attractive and their 
congregations large. They include the Catholic 
churches of St. Peter, the Sacred Heart of Mary 
and the Holy Innocents, also Congregational, 
Baptist, Episcopalian, Methodist, Universalist, 

Advent Christian, Christian Science, and 
Seventh Day Adventist churches. 

St. Joseph's Convent is a five-si;ory brick 
building occupied by the Sisters of St. Joseph. 
A Home for Aged Women, and Mt. St. Joseph's 
Academy and two parochial schools are con- 
ducted by the Sisters. The public schools of 
the city are up-to-date and sufficient for the 
needs of the children. There are nine schools, 
properly graded, besides the High School. A 
night school for the instruction of foreigners 
in English has recently been started by a Com- 
mittee on education. Among the pupils are 
Italians, Greeks, Syrians, Russians, Norwegians 
and Swedes, who appreciate the advantage a 
good knowledge of English gives. 

The Rutland Free Library contains 22,500 
volumes and has a yearly circulation of 60,000 



The New Home in America 125 

books. It has outgrown its quarters in the 
Grand Army Memorial Hall and efforts are 
being made to obtain a new building exclusive- 
ly for the use of the library. The H. H. Baxtei' 
Memorial Library contains many rare and val- 
uable volumes and is open to the public for 
daily reference. 

Eutland has two progressive daily news- 
papers, morning and evening, and each pub- 
lishes also a weekly edition. There are six 
printing offices in Rutland, among them the 
largest in Vermont, The Tuttle Company, the 
publishers of this book. The president of the 
company. Senator Egbert C. Tuttle, was in 
Syria in 1903 with Governor John A. Mead, 
and both of these gentlemen are good friends 
of mine and have been much interested in the 
publication of my life story. I am very grate- 
ful to them for their appreciation. 

The city has many social, educational and 
trade organizations and nearly every fraternal 
society of the United States is represented. 
Among the organizations are the following: 
Masons, Hibernians, Elks, Canado-Americain 
Club, Catholic Order of Foresters, Italian Mut- 



126 Life of George Haddad 

ual Aid Society, Daughters of the American 
Revolution, Foresters of America, Eagles, 
Grand Army of the Republic, Green Mountain 
Club, Odd Fellows, Interstate Poultry and Pet 
Stock Association, Knights of Columbus, 
Knights of Honor, Knights of Pythias, 
Modem Woodmen of America, New Eng- 
land Order of Protection, Owls, Patrons 
of Husbandry, Royal Arcanum, Rutland 
Business Men's Association, Rutland County 
Agricultural Society, Fish and Game League, 
Rutland County Medical and Surgical 
Society, Rutland Country Club, Rutland Horse 
Show and Breeders' Association, Rutland Gun 
Club, Rutland University Association, Rutland 
Woman's Club, Sons of Veterans, Moose, 
Knights and Ladies of the Maccabees, La Garde 
d'Honneur, St. Jean Baptiste, United Order of 
the Golden Cross, United Commercial Travel- 
lers, United Spanish War Veterans, and num- 
erous literary and religious societies and labor 
organizations. 

Across the street from the City Hall is the 
beautiful Masonic Temple and on Wales Street 
is the new building belonging to the Nobles of 



The New Home in America 127 

the Mystic Shrine. The Shriners have installed 
a modem theatre, besides two convention halls, 
and on Center Street is the new Playhouse, 
one of the best and most modern in New Eng- 
land. There are also two smaller theatres, the 
Grand and the Colonial. 

In the city there are four National Banks, 
two Savings Banks and two Trust Companies. 

There are a large number of restaurants and 
seven good hotels in Rutland, the New Bard- 
well Hotel, the Berwick, the Hamilton , the 
Brock House, St. James Hotel, the Holland 
House and the Elmore. Rates are reasonable 
and guests report a good table at each as well 
as good service in other respects. 

The Rutland Hospital is one of the best in the 
country, so far as the quality of its work is 
concerned. Its two operating rooms are mod- 
ern and well-equipped and there is an X-ray 
room, a solarium and all the other features of 
a modem hospital. The situation of the hos- 
pital, on a hill overlooking the city, is delight- 
ful for convalescents. There are fifteen physi- 
cians on the staff, and each year a series of 
clinics is carried on by eminent physicians from 



The New Home in America 129 

all over the country. The hospital charges are 
moderate and the city makes provision for 
free care in needy cases. 

The Vermont House of Correction is a large 
group of buildings, in a prominent situation on 
the West Rutland car line. The Rutland 
County Court House is another important brick 
building, and on the comer across from the 
Court House is the fine old Post Office, now 
used as Station ^^A", as the principal business 
of the post office is done in a less noticeable 
situation farther downtown. Another promin- 
ent building is the City Hall, situated on the 
qorner of Merchants Row and Washington 
Street. Fire stations are in this building and 
on Center Street near the High School build- 
ing. 

i Rutland is often spoken of as the Marble 
City. It manufactures three-fourths of the mar- 
ble-finishing machinery used in the United 
States, and is the center of a district which 
supplies half the marble produced in the 
United States, and leads in quality as well as 
quantity. The quarries are located principally 
in Proctor and West Rutland, within a few 



The New Home in America 131 

miles of the city proper, and a large number 
of the workers live in Eutland. Finishing 
mills are near many of the quarries, and others 
along the railroads on the outskirts of the city, 
and are usually at work night and day. The 
marble mountains of Eutland, reminding me of 
Lebanon, had much to do with my choice of 
Eutland as a home. 

Eutland also ships out a large quantity of 
maple-sugar and has a big factory for the tap- 
ing-tools, buckets, etc., used in making the 
sugar. This maple-sugar is one of the finest 
products of the state, and on my various trips 
to the East I have usually taken some of it to 
friends in France and Syria. 

Another big industry is the Howe Scale Com- 
pany, of which my friend, Governor Mead, 
is president. This plant turns out one-quarter 
of the scales used in the whole country. 

Other manufactures include: Fireclay, gyp- 
sum and asbestos products, paper clay, cream- 
ery and dairy apparatus, clothing for 
men and women, trunks, letterpresses, 
adding-machines, oar supplies, stone-work- 
ing and coal handling machinery, cans 



132 Life op Geiorge Haddad 

and boxes, boiler coverings, cement blocks, 
bricks, mailing boxes, chair stock, doors, 
windows, cigars, monuments, sleighs, carriages, 
rugs, flags, tents, derricks, books, kinox, con- 
fectionery and shrapnel. 

There are many attractive summer resorts 
easily reached from the city. Lake Bomoseen 
is the most popular — it is the largest lake in 
the state, and there are cottages, hotels and 
picnic grounds along its shores. 

Rutland Week, usually the first week in Sep- 
tember, is a new institution that attracts vis- 
itors to Eutland from long distances. A street 
carnival, with parades, fireworks, outdoor mov- 
ing pictures, and music, entertains the visitors 
evenings, and by day they crowd to the Fair 
Grounds south of the city for the Rutland 
County Fair and Horse Show and Poultry Ex- 
hibition. 

The Fair has been held annually for over 70 
years and is now under the direction of the 
Rutland County Agricultural Society. There is 
each year an attendance of close to 50,000 
people. The grounds cover nearly 50 acres and 
there are 45 buildings for exhibits, etc. A 



The New Home in Amiebica 133 

trolley line connecting with every part of the 
city takes the people to the Fair and two rail* 
road divisions pass the grounds and so can un- 
load exhibits and entries on special platforms. 
There is a good half-mile track for horse-racing 
and as the association belongs to the Green 
Mountain Racing Circuit and offers prizes 
amounting to $5,000 and over, it attracts many 
of the leading drivers of fast horses. 

On September 11, 1902, I was awarded by 
the Rutland County Agricultural Society a 
premium on my display of Turkish embroidery. 
The certificate was signed by Mr. D. D. Burditt 
and Mr. F. H. Chapman of Rutland. 

All this is why I liked Rutland and settled 
Tiere and I thank God my children were bom 
here and are getting their education in Rut- 
land. 



I. 



» 



Part II 

SYRIAN RECIPES 
AS USED BY MRS. GEORGE HADDAD 

(Arranged in the Order of Serving) 



Part II 
Syrian Recipes 





Vegetable Soup 

• 


Meat, 


1% pounds 


Carrots 


2 


Celery 


6 stalks 


Onions 


1, medium 


Parsley 


1 bunch 


Potatoes 


2 or 3 



Salt and Pepper to taste 
Boil the meat in water enough to cover it. 
Slice the vegetables fine and put in the broth 
and boil slowly. Vegetables may be fried first 
in butter* or olive oil. 



Rice Soup with Dressing 



Broth 


2 quarts 


Rice 


V2 cup 


Lemon 


iy2 


iliggs 


2 




Salt and Pepper to taste 



138 Syrian Recipes 

Boil the rice until half done, strain and run 
cold water through it several times, then boil 
half an hour in the broth. Beat the eggs, mix 
with the lemon juice, stir in a little broth, then 
add to the rice, stirring thoroughly. Serve hot. 

Lendicke Soup with Lemon 

2 quarts 
pound 



Broth 


2 


Lendicke 


1 


Lemon 


2 


Onions 


2 


Carrots 


2 


Celery- 


2 


Potatoes 


2 



stalks 
2, small 

Salt and Pepper to taste 

Lendicke can be obtained at Syrian or Italian 
stores and makes delicious soup. 

Wash the lendicke well and put on stove to 
boil. In the meantime cut the carrots, onions, 
celery, and potatoes fine, about % inch long, 
and wash well. Then put them in with the 
lendicke to boil. After this chop two onions 
fine and fry them in butter or olive oil, pour 
them over the lendicke and have them all boil 



Syrian Recipes 139 

together. About V2 hour before they are all 
cooked add to them the juice of the lemons. 
Serve hot. 

Stu£Fed Mackerel 



Mackerel 


8, small 


Olive Oil 


3 tablespoons 


Onions 


5, medium 


Parsley 


iy2 bunch 


Eggs 


2 


Lemon 


iy2 


Crackers 


3, rolled fine 



Salt and Pepper to taste 

Soften the fish in hot water for about 15 
minutes, cut off the heads and stuff with on- 
ions fried in olive oil, and mixed with chopped 
parsley, a pinch of curry, and cracker crumbs. 
Then fry pieces of bread and' use the crumbs 
for covering the pieces of fish, first dipping 
them in beaten eggs. 

The backbone may be easily removed after 
the fish is softened in hot water. Break it at 
the tail, roll the fish on a board, and then pull 
out the whole backbone through the neck. 



V 



140 Syrun Recipes 

Fried Fish 

Fish 2% pounds 

Eggs 2 

Flour 1 cup 

Butter or Olive Oil 3 or 4 tablespoons 

Salt and Pepper to taste 

Wash and dry the fish, and cut into good- 
sized pieces. Salt it and let stand 2 hours. Be- 
fore frying, dip into flour, or make a batter of 
flour and water and beaten eggs. Start frying 
in olive oil or butter, over a slow fire, but 
brighten the fire during the process to ^make 
the fish crisp. Brown well on both sides. Fry 
pieces of bread with the fish atid serve with 
parsley and slices of lemon. 

Fish Croquettes 

Fish, boiled 1% pounds 

Eggs 3 

Onions 2 

Parsley 1 bunch 

Crackers, crushed 12 

Butter or Olive Oil 3 tablespoons 

Salt and Pepper to taste 



I 



i 



Syrun Recipjbs 141 

Chop up the fish and parsley and mix with 
the eggs. Dip balls of fish into the fine cracker- 
crumbs and fry in olive oil of hot butter. 

Serve with lettuce and dress with parsley or 
slices of lemon, or use a dressing of oil and 
lemon to which may be added the yolks of 2 
hard-boiled eggs, and parsley if liked. Some- 
times a dressing is made of mustard, oil and 
roe well mixed. 

Grilled Fish on Skewers 



J^^ish, 


2^/^ pounds 


Bed Wine 


% cup 


Butter 


V2 tablespoon 


Lemon 


1 



Salt and Pepper to taste 

Cut the fish into small squares. Do not skin 
it. Season with salt and pepper and let stand 
in the wine for two hours. Broil on skewers, 
with skin between as far as possible. Laurel 
leaves, spiced and dried, may be placed between 
the pieces or burnt at first on the fire under- 
neath the skewers. Then butter the pieces a 
little and continue broiling over a slow fire. 



142 Syrian Recipes 

Serve hot with a green salad dressed with olive 
oil and lemon. 



Baked Fish with Pignoli Sauce 

(Pignoli, Italian word for Pinenuts) 



Codfish 




1, small 


Pignoli 




1 pound 


Bread (no crust) 




1 slice 


Eggs, boiled 




2 


Lemon 




2 


Olive Oil 




3 tablespoons 


Parsley (wash well) 


1 bunch 


Beets 




2, small 



Salt and Pepper to taste 

Clean the fish and salt it ; leave it for 2 hours 
and afterwards rub it with a little lemon juice 
and olive oil. Then wrap in a clean white paper 
and place in a moderate oven, taking it out and 
rubbing it with lemon juice and olive oil every 
little while. Take care not to let the paper bum, 
and change it every little while. After an hour 
and a quarter take it out and place it in a plat- 
ter, removing any burned places. 



Syrian Recipes 



143 



Soak the bread and wash the Pignoli well, 
then mash together, strain, and mix with lemon 
juice and % cup of water, making a thick sauce. 
Pour this over the fish, also 2 tablespoons of oil. 
Use the beets and parsley and the boiled eggs 
to garnish the platter. Serve cold. 

The Pignoli sauce is also good with boiled or 
fried fish. 

Boabas (French Dish) 



Codfish (sliced) 


3 pounds 


Carrots 


6 


Potatoes 


4 


Onions 


4, large 


Celery 


1 head 


Parsley 


1 bunch 


Mustard 


1 teaspoon 


Tumeric 


2 pinches 


Flour 


2 tablespoons 


Cold Water 


V2 cup 


Lemon 


4 


Olive Oil 


1 cup 


Bread (sliced) 


2 loaves 


Salt and Pepp 


>er to taste 



144 Syrian Recipes 

Cut up the carrots, potatoes, onions, celery 
and parsley, about an inch long, and wash well. 
Then place some in a deep vessel and the fish 
over it, and the rest of the vegetables over the 
fish. (Codfish is the American fish, best to use 
instead of the French Boabas.) Pour in the 
olive oil, peel and slice one lemon and add to 
the dish, also salt and pepper and sufficient 
water for them to boil together. 

To make a sauce, mix the flour, mustai*d and 
tumeric, in a little water and the juice of the 
remaining three lemons. Put over the fish and 
let all boil together the last fifteen minutes, but 
not long enough to break the fish. 

Then take the fish out and put on a plate and 
strain the vegetables into a separate dish. The 
vegetables are not served at all at a formal 
dinner. 

At dinner-time toast the bread and pour the 
sauce ovfer the slices of bread and place the fish 
on top. If desiTed, the fish may be served sep- 
arately and the bread with the sauce in a deep 
dish. 



Syrian Recipes 145 

Stu£Fing Mixture 

Lamb or mutton (with some 

fat) 1 pound 

Butter 2 tablespoons 

Eice, well washed ^/4 pound 

Water 2 or 3 tablespoons 

Salt and Pepper to taste 

Chop the meat fine and mix well with the 
rice. 

Stu£Fed Summer Squash 

- Clean out the seedy parts of twelve small 
squashes but be careful so that the sides of 
the squash will not break. After this wash 
them out and fill three-quarters full with the 
stuffing-mixture above. 

Then in a kettle fry two well chopped onions 
and when browned add 2 pounds of ripe peeled 
tomatoes (or 1 can of tomatoes), then boil a 
little and place the squash over them side by 
side. Add hot water to cover and boil slowly 
until done. Serve hot. 

The squash may be also cooked in white 
gravy by boiling the squash until nearly done 
and adding the white gravy. 



T 



146 Syrian Recipes 

Stuffed Cabbage 

Take apart the leaves of a firm, thin-leaved 
cabbage, and soak in boiling water until soft. 
Then cut each leaf into two small parts and 
in each wrap a small piece of the stuffing mix- 
ture above. Arrange carefully in a deep vessel, 
held down by a plate. Add enough hot water 
to cover the cabbage. When half done, over a 
slow fire, or in the oven, add the lemon. Do 
not allow the leaves to be unwrapped in serving. 
Serve hot. 

Stuffed Orape Leaves 

The grape leaves may be either fresh, or 
pickled but should be tender. Put them a few 
minutes in boiling water to soften or to take 
out the salt, then wrap in them some of the 
stuffing-mixture above. 

Arrange side by side, and cover with water. 
Put over them two sliced lemons, peeled and 
seeded, and press down with a plate. Add 3 
cups of hot water and boil over a slow fire. 
Serve hot, and do not allow the leaves to be un- 
wrapped. 



Syrian Begipi* 147 

Stuffing Mixture No. 2 

Cut up two or three onions and fry in but- 
ter until they are light brown. Pour in 1 pound 
meat well chopped and fry together. When 
half done add parsley and a few nuts. Pine 
nuts are largely used in Syria, or walnuts are 
a good substitute. Salt and Pepper to taste. 





Stuffed Eggplants 


Lamb or Mutton (not 

too much fat) 
Eggplants 
Onions 


2 pounds 
1 dozen 
2 


Parsley 

Walnuts 

Tomatoes 




1 bunch 
% pound 
1 dozeii 



Dig out the seeds but do not sl^iij the egg- 
plants. Pierce each in several places and soak 
half an hour. After soaking fry a little^ then 
stuff and place side by side in a deep paij. 
Stew the onions and tomatoes tlogetjier and 
pour over the eggplants, also a cup and one- 
half of water, and cook ever a slow Are. Serve 
hot. 



148 Sybian Recipes 

ft 

Stuffed Potatoes 

Potatoes 12 

Lamb, chopped 1% pound 

Onions 2, large 
Pine nuts (Snobar, 4 ounces 

Parsley . V/o bunch 

Tomatoes % can 

Butter 3 tablespoons 

Salt and Pepper to taste 

Peel 12 large potatoes, which should be 
smooth and long, and let stand in water with 
two tablespoons of salt. Cut off the tops and 
dig out the insides of the potatoes but be care- 
ful not to break the sides and leave the pota- 
toes about ^/4 inch thick. Cut a little from the 
bottom of each potato so it will stand. 

Chop the onions fine and fry in butter and 
when half done add the meat, and when nearly 
done, the pine nuts. Season to taste and leave 
on the stove about five minutes longer. When 
finished remove from stove and mix in the finely 
chopped parsley. 

Arrange the potatoes in a deep vessel and 
stuff with the mixture. The butter which is 



Syrian Eecipes 149 

left from frying may be placed in the bottom of 
the vessel. Bake in a moderately hot oven and 
when half done pour the strained tomatoes over 
Ahem, and also about V2 cup of water for sauce. 
Serve hot with lettuce salad. 

Stuffed Artichokes 

Artichokes 12 

Lamb, chopped 1% pound 

Pine nuts (Snobar) 4 ounces 

Parsley 2 bunches 

Onions 2 

Salt and Pepper to taste 

Clean the artichokes. Cut off the tops about 
one inch, then dig out the insides of the arti- 
chokes and cut off the ' bottoms so they will 
stand, then put in cold water with two table- 
spoons of salt. Wash out in cold water and 
strain, and fry in butter until nearly brown, 
"then take them out and pla^e in a dish while 
the mixture is being made up, as follows: 

Chop the onions fine and fry in butter. When 
nearly brown put in the meat and when nearly 
done add the pine nuts and season ta taste. 



150 Syrian Recipes 

letting it cook five tninutes longer. Add the 
finely chopped parsley and remove into a dish. 

Place the artichokes in a deep vessel side by 
side and stuff each one, putting the bfutter 
which is left from frying in the bottom of the 
vessel. Then place in a moderately hot oven. 
Pour over them strained tomatoes and about 
3 cups of hot water > and let cook about one 
hour. 

Serve hot. 

Baked Mashed Potatoes 

Pine nuts % pound 

Potatoes % peck 

Eggs 2 

Lamb (chopped) 1 pound 

Flour 3 tablespoons 

Tomatoes 5 

Onions 2 

Salt and Pepper to taste 

Peel and boil the potatoes and mash when 
cool; then mix in the eggs and flour, while the 
potatoes are cool. 

To make a sauce, fry the chopped onions in 



Syrun Recipes 151 

butter until nearly brown and then put in the 
meat. When the meat is partly cooked, add 
pine nuts and tomatoes, season and let boil un- 
til the sauce is thick. The tomatoes must be 
boiled and strained, or use % can strained 
tomatoes. Place a little butter in the bottom 
of a deep pan and put in a layer of the potatoes, 
then put in some of the sauce, then another 
layer of the potatoes. Cut this into squares, 
put a tablespoon of butter over each and place 
in the oven until brown. Serve hot with the 
remaining sauce and when serving, place some 
lettuce or parsley around the plates. 

String Beans with Tomato Sauce 

Green String Beans 2 quarts 
Meat (lean) 1% pound 

Onions 2 

Butter 3 tablespoons 

Tomatoes 1 can 

Salt and Pepper to taste 

Clean and wash the beans and cut in two 
lengthwise. Chop the onions and fry in butter 
in a deep pan, until a light brown. Add the 
meat, cut into walnut-size pieces, and fry to- 



t 
f 



152 Syrian Recipes 

gether a few minutes, then add the beans and 
fry all together about 20 minutes over a moder- 
ate fire. 

Season to taste and leave on the fire about 
twenty minutes longer, stirring constantly. 
Then strain the tomatoes and pour over the 
mixture, add four cups of water, and let boil 
until cooked, but not dried out, as some sauce ' ^ 

is wanted. 

Serve hot with rice or mashed potatoes. 

Fried Spinach 

Spinach % peck 

Butter 4 or 5 tablespoons 

Eggs 4 

Salt and Pepper to taste 

Cut up the spinach and boil for 15 minutes. ^i 

Strain it and spread it out evenly in a flat pan. 
Season to taste and pour the beaten eggs over 
it. Melt the butter and mix all together. Bake 
in a moderate oven. 



Syrian Recipes 153 

Fried Cauliflower 

Cauliflower 1 head, medium 

Eggs ^2 

Salt and Pepper to taste 
Boil the cauliflower a little and M^hen cool 
slice and season to taste. Dip into the beaten 
eggs with a little flour mixed in, and fry in 
butter or olive oil. 

Stuffed Tomatoes 

Cut the tops of the tomatoes partly through 
to act as lids. Dig out the centers and stuff. 
Pierce in several places and place side by side 
in a deep flat pan, buttered. Pour over one or 
more cups of water and the centers of the 
tomatoes and cook same as eggplants. Serve 
hot. 

Artichokes with Olive Oil 
Artichokes 1 dozen 

Onions 1 dozen, very small 

Olive Oil % cup 

Salt and Pepper to taste 

Skin the onions, and fry them whole in the 
olive oil. To this add artichokes. Season to 
taste and boil over a medium fire 20 minutes. 
Serve hot or cold. 



154 Syrian Recipes 

Rice with Tomato Sauce 

Eice 2 pounds 

Lamb, lean (chopped) 1 pound 

Tomatoes 1 can 

Cheese 4 ounces 

Pine nuts (Snobar) 4 ounces 

Crackers 2, crushed 

Onions 2 

Butter 6 ounces 

Salt and Pepper to taste 

Cook the rice and set it aside. 

Chop the onions fine and fry until light 
brown, then put over them the chopped meat 
and let cook for about twenty minutes over a 
moderate fire. Then put in the pine nuts and 
leave on the stove about five minutes. After- 
wards strain the tomatoes, and pour over the 
meat and onions and let boil about twenty min- 
utes. Season to taste, adding 2 pinches of cin- 
namon, and then strain out the sauce. 

Rub butter around the inside of a deep ves- 
sel and put in the crushed crackers, then put 
in about one-third of the cooked rice and some 
cheese, then a little of the fried mixture, over 



Syrian Recipes 155 

that another third of the rice, and over that a 
little more of the mixture, then the remaining 
rice and over that the remainder of cheese. 
Press down each time you put in the rice. 

Then place in a moderately hot oven for 
about 30 minutes. 

Serve hot. In serving, turn over the vessel 
into a round dish and it will come out in a cake. 
The sauce may be served with it, and liard 
boiled eggs may be used to garnish the plate. 

Macaroni with Milk 



Macaroni 


2 pounds 


Milk 


1 pint 


Eggs 


2 


Parmesan Cheese 


4 tablespoons 



Salt and Pepper to taste 

Bqil the macaroni, then strain it. Beat the 
eggs well and pour over them the milk and 
melted butter. Mix in the cheese and stir all 
into the macaroni. Bake in a pan in a moder- 
ately hot oven until browned. 



4 



156 


Syrian Recifes 




Boiled Rice 


Bice 
Butter 


3 pounds 
% pound 
Salt to taste 



Soak the rice in hot water for about one 
hour, putting with it a good handful of salt 
and stirring together well. 

Heat the butter smoking hot and add to it 
4 cups of water. Let it boil while you wash 
the rice in cold water, being careful not to 
break the grains, then pour together, stirring 
it at the same time and every little while after- 
wards, so it will not bum. Boil .hard for ten 
minutes, then more slowly until done. Serve 
hot. 

Macaroni with Meat 

Macaroni 3 pounds 

Minced Meat 1% pound 

Butter 4 tablespoons 

Onions 2 

Cinnamon, powdered 2 pinches 
Salt and Pepper to taste 

Boil the macaroni until well done. Strain 
and add the butter then simmer on a slow fire 



Syrian Recipes 157 

until the water is out of it. Fry the onions in 
butter, until half-done, then add the meat, and 
when done put in a deep pan, with alternate 
layers of macaroni, seasoning with the salt, pep- 
per and cinnamon. Brown in a moderately hot 
oven. Parmesan cheese may be served with 
macaroni. 

David Pasha Meat Balls 

Jjean steak (chopped) 1% pounds 

Parsley (chopped fine) % bunch 

Onions 12, small 

Tomatoes 1% pound 

Salt and Pepper to taste 

Mix well together and make into balls the 
size of a walnut. Stew the tomatoes meanwhile. 
When the meat balls are made ready fry them 
in butter and take them out, putting in the same 
pan to fry, a pound of sliced onions. When 
these are fried brown, pour over them 
the stewed tomatoes. Add salt and pep- 
per, then put into a kettle with the meat 
balls, adding enough water for sauce, and let all 
boil on a slow fire about one hour. Serve hot, 
with rice. 



158 Stbiak Recipes 

Meat Balls a la Beyrouth 

Beef 2 pounds 

Potatoes 4 

Eggs 4 

Parsley 2 bunches 

Parmesan Cheese 2 tablespoons 

Butter 4 tablespoons 

Boil and mash the potatoes and mix with the 
minced meat, adding the eggs, cheese and pars- 
ley, and onions for a change. Season tp taste, 
then make into flat balls. Soak two slices of 
bread (no crust) and crumble it in the hand, 
then dip into it the balls of meat, and fry in 
butter. Serve hot. 

Meat Balls with Fried Egg» 

Meat, lean, ground fine 1 pound 
Parsley 3 bunches 

Eggs 6 

Dry Onions 2, small 

Salt and Peppep^to taste 

Fry the meat ballg until thoroughly cooked, 
take them out and put the chopped onions in 

their place and fry until brown. Then just be- 



Syrian Ebcipbs 159 

fore dinner add to the onions the parsley chop- 
ped to about one inch long. After 4 minutes 
add the meat balls. Break the eggs over the 
meat balls, and let them cook over a slow fire. 
Serve hot. 



Meat Croquettes 


Meat, lean 


iy2 pound 


Parsley 


Vo bunch 


Onion 


1 


Eggs 


2 


Crackers 


4 


Bread (no crust) 


2 slices 


Tomatoes 


% can 


Cheese (if desired) 


2 tablespoons 


Celery 


1 stalk 



Boil the meat until well cooked. The broth 
may be used for soup. 

Then chop up the meat fine and mix in with 
it the finely chopped parsley, the onion, eggs, 
and cheese, and make into balls the size of an 
egg, standing them lengthwise. Dip into the 
finely crushed crackers and eggs and fry in 
plenty of hot butter. 

Serve hot, with tomato sauce and green 
peas. 



160 Sybian Recipes 



it 



Head of the Bird" 



Lean steak 1 pound 

Parsley 1 bnnch 

Tomatoes ^/2 can 

Bice % pound 

Salt and Pepper to taste 

Chop all and mix well together, and make 
into small balls. Fry in bntter about 8 min- 
utes. 

Then pick over and wash Vo pound rice and 
boil in water about 30 minutes, or long enough 
to make soup. Add V2 can of strained tomatoes, 
boil until the rice is cooked and then add the 
meat balls. Serve hot. 

Meat with Vinegar 

Meat, lean 2 pounds 

Onions 12, small 

Garlic (if desired) 1 head 
Vinegar 1-3 cup 

Salt and Pepper to taste 

Cut the meat in walnut sizes or a little larger 
and fry in butter, then place aside, and in the 
same pan fry the small whole onions. When 



Syrun Recipes 161 

brown add the finely chopped garlic and fry to- 
gether. 

Then place the meat in the kettle and pour 
the onions and garlic and vinegar over it and 
let boil about five minutes, then add enough 
water for sauce, and let boil. Serve hot, with 
mashed potatoes or rice. 

Aspara.gus with Meat 

Lamb 1 pound 

Broth (or water) 2 cups 

Asparagus 1% bunch, large 

Onions 2, medium 

Eggs 2 

Lemons 2 

Salt and Pepper to taste 

Fry small pieces of meat in its own fat with 
the finely chopped onions, until the onions are 
a light brown. Boil the asparagus for 10 min- 
utes, then strain and add the fried meat. ' Sea- 
son to taste, and add the broth, then boil until 
the meat is tender. Serve with white sauce, 
or make dressing of the beaten egg and lemon 
juice. A little broth may be worked into the 
dressing. 



162 Syrian Recipes 

Fried Lambs' Brains 

Brains 1 pound 

Eggs 3 

Crackers, crushed 8 

Lemon ^ 
Salt to taste 

Boil the brains for ten to fifteen minutes, put- 
ting in the juice of half a lemon, then slice and 
dip first into eggs and then cracker crumbs, 
seasoned with salt. Fry on both sides in hot 
butter. Serve with parsley and olives. 

Cabbage with Meat 

Lamb or beef fat 2 pounds 

Cabbage 4 pounds 

Onions 2, medium 

Water 4 cups 

Lemons 2 

Salt and Pepper to taste 

Cut the meat up into walnut-sized pieces and 
fry. Cut the cabbage a little larger. Chop the 
onion coarsely. Alternate layers of each in a 
dish, add the water, and boil until tender, over 
a moderate fire. Add lemon juice when nearly 
done or serve with lemon juice. 



Syrun Recipes 163 

Dandelions with Meat 

Dandelions 1 peck 

Lamb or Mutton 1 pound 

Onions 2, medium 

Water 4 cups 

Lemon 1% 

Salt and Pepper to taste 

Boil and strain the dandelions. Oat the meat, 
dandelions and onions into coarse pieces. Fry 
the meat in its own fat with the onions until 
they are a light brown, or use oil and more 
onions. Mix with the dandelions, season, and 
add the water, then boil over a moderate fire 
uiltil the meat is tender. When nearly done add 
the juice of the lemons. Serve hot. 

Roasted Chicken 

Ohicken 1 

Flour 1 tablespoon 

Butter 6 ounces 

Salt and Pepper to taste 

Olean the chicken and wash it well. Rub 
with butter and then put it inta a moderately 
hot oven in a deep pan, putting with it a small 
onion and a cinnamon stick. Bake until brown, 



164 Syrun Recipes 

then take out and make a gravy of the grease 
from the chicken, as follows: Mix in the llonr 
and let it brown, then add about one cup of 
water, stirring constantly. 

Put the chicken back in and add about 2 cups 
more of water if it is a young chicken; three 
cups if it is old. Leave in the oven until done. 

Serve hoty with peas added to the gravy. 

Boneless Chicken 

As soon as it is killed clean the chicken well 
but do not put it in water. Cut to the bone the 
whole length of the back, then lay back the 
meat off to the wings on each side and with one 
hand separate the meat from the bones. Then 
wash well and stuff with dressing. After it 
is stuffed press it under something heavy, and 
bake. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Fried Eggs with Onions 
Eggs 6 

Onions 6 

Tomatoes • 6 

Butter 2 tablespoons 

Cinnamon 2 pinches 

Salt and Pepper to taste 
Slice the onions, not too thin, and fry in tlie 



Syrian Recipes 165 

butter until light brown, then pour over them 
the tomatoes, peeled, boiled and strained, and 
let boil about fifteen minutes over a moderate 
fire. Half a can of toma.toes may be used. 

Have the eggs ready and fry them in the pan 
with the tomatoes and onions. Season to taste 
and while the eggs are frying stir them with a 
spoon, not breaking the yolks. 

Serve hot, and garnish the plate with lettuce. 

Fried Eggs with Summer Squash 

Eggs 6 

Squash 6, small 

Onion 1, large 

Butter 3 tablespoons 

Cinnamon 2 pinches 

Salt and Pepper to taste 

Peel the squash, wash and cut up into %-inch 
pieces. Cut up the onion and fry in the butter 
and when light brown add the squash and stir 
together. Let cook about twenty minutes on a 
moderate fire. Have the eggs ready and fry 
them with the squash. Keep stirring. Season 
to taste. 

Serve hot with lemon juice. 



166 


Syrian Recipes 




Tomato Salad 


Tomatoes 

Onions 

Pepper 

Parsley 

Vinegar 

Olive Oil 


6 

2, medium 
1, green 

1 bunch 

4 tablespoons 

2 tablespoons 



Salt and Pepper to taste 
Slice the onions thin and slice the tomatoes 
over them, season to taste, and pour on the 
vinegar and olive oil. One green pepper finely 
chopped will add to the flavor. Prepare this 
salad at least half an hour before the meal time. 



Beet and Potato Salad 

2 pounds 
1 pound 
1 bunch 
1 bunch, fine 
• 4 
% cup 

4 tablespoons 
1, small 
Salt and Pepper to taste 

Wash the beets well, and put on to boil. When 



Beets 

Potatoes 

Parsley 

Mint 

Eggs, hard-boiled 

Vinegar 

Olive Oil 

Onions 



Syrian Recipes 167 

half done put in the well washed potatoes and 
boil together until done. Then pare and slice 
all fine, put into a salad plate, and mix with 
them the finely chopped parsley and onions. 
Pour over them the vinegar and olive oil, mix- 
ing all well together, and over them place 
the sliced hard-boiled eggs. 





Salad of Greens 


Cucumbers 


1, medium 


Celery 


5 or 6 stalks 


Lettuce 


% head 


Badishes 


1 bupch 


Parsley 


1 bunch 


Tomatoes 


3 or 4 



Green Peppers (sweet) 2 
Vinegar 3 tablespoons 

Olive Oil 3 tablespoons 

Salt and Pepper to taste 

Cut the vegetables fine and season the cu- 
cumbers, celery, lettuce, radishes and green pep- 
pers with salt. Wash well and season again to 
taste. Then stir the vinegar and olive oil well 
together. Cut the parsley and tomatoes fine 
and mix all together well. 



168 S 


Syrian Recipes 


Rice Pudding with Milk 


Eice 


1 cup 


Milk 


1 quart 


Water 


1 pint 


Sugar 


1 cup 


Nuts, peeled 


V2 pound 



Wash the rice well and put it aside. Put the 
milk and water in a kettle to boil, and while 
boiling add the rice and let^t boil over a slow 
fire until cooked. Add sugar and let it boil 
about ten minutes longer. To give it a delicious 
touch, add peeled almonds and walnuts, stirring 
it all the while. 

Com Starch Pudding 

Com starch 1 cup 

Sugar 1% cup 

Milk 1 quart 

"Water 1 pint 

Almonds or pine nuts V2 pound 

Mix the starch and sugar together in a 
kettle. Pour over the water and milk and stir 
well, making sure that it is melted. Then put 
on the stove over a moderate fire and keep 



J 



Syrian Recipes 169 

stirring until the pudding is well done. Peel 
the almonds and cut in two, and add to the 
mixture, also five or six drops of rose water. 
Serve cold, garnished with almonds. Whip- 
ped cream may also be used with this pudding. 

Chicken Pudding 



Breast of Chicken, 




cooked 


1 


Eice Flour 


2 cups 


Sugar 


1% cups 


Milk 


1 quart 


Water 


1 pint 


Filbert Nuts, peeled 


1 pound 


Almonds, peeled 


1 pound 


Walnuts, peeled 


% pound 


Eose Water 


10 drops 



Put the water, milk, sugar and rice flour in 
a kettle and stir over a slow fire until it boils. 
When thick take from the stove and add the 
chicken and finely chopped nuts, and stir them 
well together. Then add the rose water. 

Pour into a mould or into cups and serve 
when cold with cream. 



170 Syrian Recipes 

Turkish Coffee 

Water 6 small cups 

Sugar 4 teaspoons 
Boasted Coffee, 

ground fine 4 teaspoons 

Melt the sugar in the water and when hot 
add the coffee, stirring it well into the water 
for one minute. Place the pot again on the fire 
and bring the coffee to a boil several times. 

When serving, pour into small cups and sip 
after the coffee is settled. This coffee may be 
made. in any kind of pot without a cover. 

Flavor with five or six drops of Rose Water 
if wanted. 



f 



Appendix 

A NEW PYCNODONT FISH, COELODUS 
SYRIACCJS, FROM THE CRETACEOUS 

OF SYRIA 

By L. Hussakof 



Reprint from the Bulletin of the 

AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL 

HISTORY 

Vol. XXXV, Art. XV, pp. 135-137 



By permission of Mr. Hussakof, Curator of Ichthyology 



\ 



Appendix 

A NEW PYCNODONT FISH, COELODUS SYRIACUS, 

FROM THE CRETACEOUS OF SYRIA 

By L. Hussakof 

A dental plate of a pycnodont fish was recently sent to mo 
for examination by Mr. George Haddad of Rutland, Vt. 
He collected it while on a. visit to Syria, two years ago, at 
a place about eighteen miles southeast of the city of Bey- 
rout. The specimen is a right splenial in almost perfect 
preservation. It seems originally to have been embedded 
in a small limestone concretion, but had weathered out so 
completely that only a very little of the rock clings to the 
oral face and around the margins; the underside is entirely 
free. 

The occurrence of the specimen in limestone, taken in con- 
junction with what we know of the geology of Syria, indi- 
cates that it is of Cretaceous age. It represents a new 
species of Coelodus, which may be described as follows: 



Coelodus syrlacus n. sp. 

A species known only by a large, right splenial dentition. 
Teeth of principal series not quite three times as broad as 
long, their anterior margins straight or only slightly concave. 
This series separated from inner margin of the element by a 
epace equal to the width of a tooth in the posterior half, but 
somewhat less than a tooth in the front half of the element. 
Eight teeth in the principal series; anteriormost about % 
the width of the hindmost. Two outer flanking series, their 



Type. Bight aplenial 



combined width about % that of the principal series. Teeth 
of inner flanking aeries transversely elongated, 1^ tiroes as 
broad as long; those of outer series not elongated, triangu- 
lar or quadrate in form, with rounded angles. A single, 
small, nearly circular, unworn tootb inside of the principal 
series, placed opposite the space between the third and 
fourth teeth of this series. 

Teeth of principal series smooth, or with a scattering of 
irregular indpntations (perhaps doe to wear). Teeth in the 
other rows with a central depression from which crinklings 



r 

I 



Appendix 175 

radiate toward the margin; these markings more or less 
obliterated, or entirely worn away, depending on the amount 
of use. 

Measurements of the Type in Millimeters 

Length of principal series, 8 teeth.. 63 

Front tooth of principal series 12.5 wide by 6 long 

Last tooth of principal series 20.5 wide by 8 . 5 long 

Next-to-last tooth of principal series. . 20 wide by 7 . 5 long 

Last preserved tooth of inner flanking 

series 10 wide by 7 long 

Last preserved tooth of outermost 

series 6.5 wide by 7 long 

Width of both flanking series (hind- 
most teeth) 16 . 5 

No species' of Coelodus has heretofore been described from 
Syria, although the genus was known to occur there since 
it is stated by Woodward (Catal. Fossil Fishes Brit. Museum, 
Pt. Ill, 258), that "An undescribed species of Coelodus is 
represented by portions both of the upper and lower denti- 
tion from the Cretaceous near Beyrout, now in the Museum 
of the Syrian Protestant College, Beyrout." It appears 
probable that this is the same species as is here described. 

The genus Coelodus ranges from the Upper Jurassic through 
the Cretaceous and is represented in Europe, Asia and North 
America. About 30 species are known. The present one 
differs from all others by the wide separation of the princi- 
pal series of teeth from the inner margin of the splenial, and 
by the proportions of width to length of the principal and 
flanking series. 

It is interesting to note that although the species clearly 
belongs in the genus Coelodus, it none the less approaches 
Anomoedus in some features, for instance, in the wide &ep- 



176 Appexdix 

aration of the prineipal series of teetli from the oral margin 
of the splenial and in the great transverse elongation of 
these teeth. Also, one of the anterior teeth in this series is 
somewhat pointed and directed obliqnely forward. All these 
features go to connect the genus Coelodiis with Anomoedm, 

The type and onlj known specimen is in the possession of 
Mr. George Haddad of Bntland, Yt., to whom I am greatly 
indebted for the privilege of studying it. A carefully made 
east of it is in the American Museum of Natural History. 



List of Subscribers 



LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS 



RUTLAND. 
Abraham, Wm. 
Adams, Henry R. 
Aitken, Annie 
Allen, C. E. 
Anthony, D. J. 

Bacon, Arthur 
Badlam, G. E. L. 
Bain, H. J. 
Baldwin, L. H. 
Baldwin, Marie 
Ballou, Ella M. 
Baraby, Mrs. Ed. 
Barker, Frank 
Barney, J. A. 
Bellerose, Dr. A. H. 
Berwick Hotel (A. J. B.) 
Billings, Seymour 
Bishop, Mrs. A. S. 
Bishop, Libby 
Boyden, Chas. R. 
Boyle, Mrs. T. A. 
Bostrom, Vera 
Bove, Louis 
Bove, P. 

Bracken & Co., B. C. 
Bradford, Rev. Arthur H. 



Brehmer, L. F. 
Briggs, C. J. . 
Brigham, L. B. 
Brislin, H. E. 
Brislin, J. W. 
Brock, S. A. 
Brohan, P. A. 
Brown, Mrs. Ernest 
Brown, J. E. 
Brown, Rev. J. M. 
Bucklin^ G. A. 
Burbank, W. F. 
Burnham, F. H. 
Bush, G. B. 
Butler, Anna L. 

Cahee House Furnishing Co. 
Carbine, John J. 
Carpenter, H. B. 
Carpenter, H. O. 
Carrick, H. 
Carroll, Agnes M. 
Carroll, W. B. 
Casavaw, Geo. H. 
Caverly, Dr. C. S. 
Chaflfee, Newman K. 
Chalmers, G. E. 
Chapman, F. H. 



180 



Appendix 



Clement, H. W. 
aiflford, J. P. 
Gongdon, H. W. 
Coniflf, F. 
Gonlin, Louise 
Cook, M. W. 
Coolidge, A. G. 
Cootey, Dr. T. A* 
Costello, Geo. 
Costello, J. F. 
Courcelle, A. J. 
Cowen, Guy 
Cragin, Stephen 
Crosta, Dominick 
Crowley, Nora E. 
Crowther, L. A. 
Curtis, W. H. 
Cutler, G. H. 

Dana, Edw. 
Davis, Will L. 
Denning, Hugh 
Dodge, A. G. 
Dodge, Hiram F. 
Donahue, G. W. 
Dorion, H. J. 
Dorsey, J. S. 
Duflfy, W. F. 
Dug^n, J. H. 
Dugan, M. 
Dunn, F. J. 
Dunn, J. C. 
Dunn, John 



Dunn, Wm. H. 
Diirkee, H. C. 
Dyer, H. Edward 

Eastman, H. N. 
Eddy, C. F. 
Emery, A. W, 
Everson, A. H. 

Face, Rev. E. D. 
Farnsworth, A. W. 
Farrar, H. C. 
Farren, Steve C. 
Fenn, Frederick 
Fenton, W. S. 
Field, Fred A. 
Field, Henry F. 
Fish, Leland H. 
Flory, N. C. 
Foley, Gertrude A. 
Foley, M. J. 
Foss, E. E. 
Foye, C. W. 
Francisco, I. H. 
Frank, Samuel 
Frost, O. S. 

Gage, J. E. 
Gale, Dr. C. A. 
Gardner, A. J. 
Gebhardt, Dr. F. H. 
Gibson^ A. C. 
Gibson, C. L. 



APi>SKD|X 



181 



Gibson, G. L. 
Girard, P. F. 
Gleason, C. L. 
Gleason, W. O. 
Gort#n, A. W. 
Grandey, Mrs. L. H. 
Grimes, J. H. 
Grimm, Nella M. 
Grover, A. C. 

Hamilton, J. M. 
Harrigan, W. J. 
Harris, C. P. 
Hart, F. H. 
Heath, D. N. 
Heidel, Dr. L. A. 
Hickey, J. J. 
Higgins, Mrs. A. W. 
Hinchey, F. N. 
Hinckley, H. C. 
Hinsman, C. B. 
Hoadley, J. B. 
Hoag, H. L. 
Holleran, Bridget 
Horan, Thos. 
Horton, E. H. 
Houghton, L. S. 
Howe, Chas. L. 
Howe, Mrs. H. H. 
Howley, W. B. 
Hoy, Josie A. 
Ifubbard, A. J. 
Hyland, G. B. 



Jerry Bros. & D^n 
Johnson, Louis 
Joly, L. O. 
Jones, J. C. 
Jones & King 

Kelley, P. J. 
Kelly, Anna 
Kennedy, M. Jean 
Kerrigan, J. W. 
Kershaw, W. H. 
Ketcham, S. L. 
Kinsella, Clifford & Co. 
Kinsella, Henry 
Kinsman, W. R. 
Knight, Fred 

La Bombard, Emma 
Lalor, J. H. 
Lanahan, J. E. 
Landon, C. H. 
liaHocke, F. 
Lassor, G. £. 
Lavery, H. E. 
Lillie, D. A. 
Lillis, J. A. 
Liqued, Harry W. 
Lloyd, Wm. J. 
Locke, D. B. 
Loukes, M. H. 

Mangan, T. P. 
Mangini, M, A. 



182 



Appendix 



Manning, Edw. 
Mansell, R. S. 
Marshall, Dr. G. G. 
Martin, D. C. 
Matthews, C. A. 
McCarthy, F. A. 
McCavet, Cecilia F. 
McClallen, E. G. 
McCue, D. J. & Co. 
McHugh, B. H. 
MKJKay, T. W. 
McMaster, Geo. J, 
Meldon, P. M. 
Meleady, Agnes 
Mercure, Arsene 
Merriam, Mrs. E. N. 
Metzger Bros. 
Miller, I. 
Miner, L. A. 
Mintzer, Jos. 
Monahan, Julia 
Moore, A. C. 
Morris, B. J. 
Morse, Chas. E. 
Morse, J. J. 
Moulton, Leon G. 
Moulton, Leslie 
Murdick, Clarence 

Nichols, W. W. 
Nicklaw, N. J. 
Novak, A. J. 
Novak, Chas. E. 



Nutting, Mrs. A. S. 

O'Brien, E. H. 
O'Brien, Jas. 

Ostiguy, N. D. 

Paige, E. C. 
Parker, Henry S. 
Patch, F. R. 
Pennington, C. W. 
Phillips, Laura B. 
Pierce, A. H. 
Piatt, Fred S. 
Pocket, Mrs. Carl 
Pond, Dr. E. M. 
Poulin, C. V. 
Powers, W. E. 
Proulx, Rev. N. 
Purdy, C. E. 

Reardon, J. A. 
Reed, A. S. 
Remington, F. H. 
Reynolds, Rev. Jos. 
Richmond, R. L. 
Robinson, C. D. 
Robinson, F. W. 
Ross, C. E. 
Ross, Lena C. 
Rowe, H. A. 
Royce, Pauline M. 
Russell, H. L. 
Rutland Free Library 



Appendix 



183 



Byaiij. J. H. 

Sails, H. R. C. 
Sawyer, M. S. 
Scofield, Mary L. 
Scott, A. H. 
Scott, Walter J. 
Sear, R. P. 
Seeley, Delia L. 
Segale, Joe 
Simpson, C. A. 
Sisters of St. Joseph 
Smith, A. H. 
Smith, H. H. 
Smith, Dr. Ray E. 
Smith, Rita 
Smith, W. S. 
Spaulding, G. M. 
Spaulding, R. C. 
Spaulding, W. H. 
Spencer, C. W. 
Spencer, F. C. 
Stafford, B. L. 
Stafford, W. K. 
Stearns, J. B. 
Sterns, A. E. 
Stewart, A. 
Stickney, B. H. 
Stickney, Dr. W. W. 
Stoddard^ Mrs. M. O. 
Sullivan, J. D. 

Tarbell, G. W. 
Tarbox, C. F. 



TerrUl, W. S. 
Thomson, Dr. J. E. 
Tiernan, Chas. M. 
Toohey, T. E. 
Toomey, Chas. E. 
Toomey, M. J. 
Tossing, A. D. • 
Townsend, Dr. W. W. 
Tracy, Francis 
Train, Mrs. Nettie 
Tuttle, Berenice B. 
Tuttle, Chas. E. 

Vaughan, F. L. 
"\'italiano, Guy T. 
Vittum, A. W. 

Way, H. S; 
Webber, M. C. 
Weinle, C. W. 
Welch, J. E. 
Wellwood, J. A. 
Wellwood, J. C. 
West, C. H. 
WhaJen, Harry M. 
Whay, Wm. H. 
White, C. R. 
White, Frank D* 
Whittier, J^, "^ 
Willis, C.F. 
Wilson, F. M. 
Wolk, Hyman H, 
Woodfin, J. N. 
Woods, Carter R. 



184 



Appendix 



OUT OF TOWN 

Albany, N. Y. 

Van LooB, Geo. B. 

Ausable Forks, N. T. 
Avery, L. J. L. 
Bogersy Mra, Henry G. 
Rogers, Mrs. Jas. 

Barre, Vt. 
Fitts, Homer 

Bellows Falls, Vt. 
Codding, Burt A. 
Foley, Edw. J. 
Slattery, MoUie A. 
Whitcomb, E. L. 
Wolfe, MoUie C 

Brandon^ Yt. 
Brandon Inn 
Hethrington, Ernest F. 
Merritt, Bnrt 
Nutting, W. D. 
Ray, C. E. 
Viens, L. E. 
Young, Mrs. G. H. 

Burlington, Yt. 
Adams, E. L. 
Clay, H. V. 
Collins, H. J. 



East, Wm. 
Hall, W. P. 
Lynch, J. N. 
Warner, A. P. 

Concord, N. H. 
Fitch, Mrs. A. P. 

Fort Edward, N. Y. 
Barnard, Geo. P. 
Durkee, W. lu. 

Glens Falls, N. Y. 
Dwyer, Mr». M. C. 
Goodwin, Geo. E. 
Lawler, Loretta 
McCauley, John 
Taylor, Geo. M. 

Granville, N. Y. 
Copps, E. M. 
Douglas, H. B, 

Jeffersonville, N. Y. 
Randall, G. F. 

Keeseville, N. Y. 

Baillargeon, Mrs. J. S. 
BoyntoQ, Kellogg 
Callanan, Mrs. M. J. 
Kingsland, Mrs. G. N. 
Prescott, Mrs. C. H. 
Prime, Mrs. P. M. 



Aphendix 



185 



Bivers, Alice 
Bomejn, £. K. 
Severance^ Dr. K. J. 
Shields, A. W. 
Tindale, Wm. N. 
Wheeler, Anna 

Manchester, Vt. 
Murphy, Clarence J. 

Middlebury, Vt. 
Beckwith, F. W. 
Dyer, J. K. 
Higgins, John 

Morrisvllle, Vt. 
Cheney, Thos. C. 
Drowne, G. P. 
KeUey, J. M. 
Olmstead, Erwin H.* 
Powers, Geo. M. 
Reynolds, B. E. 
Slayton, A. H. 
Slayton, H. A. 
Thayer, F. O. 

Nashua, N. 9. 

Messier, Bliuiche II. 
Speare-Whitcomb 
Tucker, Jas. H. S. 

Newport, N. H. 
Byron, T. F. 



Chandler, T. L 
Lewis, G. E. 
Lewis, Sam D. 
Quimby, H. W. 
Washburn, P. H. 

Newport, Vt. 
Camp, Tom C. 
Lane, H. E. 
Sisco, F. H. 
Tinkham, T. S. 

New York City 
Hussakof, L. 

Plattsburgh, N. Y. 
Callanan, Mrs. D. M. 
Carpenter, A. N. 
Clark, R. J. 
Hagar, F. N. 
Hitchcock, H. C. 
Johnson, Corydon S. 
Nash, J. L. 
Sennum, A. J. 

Port Henry, N. Y. 
Carpenter, C. L. 
Copeland, G. M. 
Marshall, Bert W. 
Merrihew, G. C. 
Rich, D. A. 

Rome, N. Y. 
Makin, John K, 



186 



Appendix 



St. Johnsbury^ Vt. 
Berry-BaU Co. 
Brigham, S. K. 

Daniels, L. J. 
Dunnett, Alexander 
Ford, Howard A. 
LeMear, Sarah B. 
McPhetter, L. A. 
Merritt, G. A. 
Moor, H. E. 
Pope, Fred H. 
Porter, Phoebe J. 
Smith, Grove C. 
Way, C. H. 

Saratoga, N. Y. 

Baumgartner, Jos. F. 
Carr, Geo. D. 
Dowd, S. L. 
Norton, L. A. 
Zelikofsky, Louis 

Springfield, Vt. 

Gary, Mabel L. 

Fushev, H. E. 

Hart, Mrs. John !!. 
Houghton, A. M. 

McCarthy, G. M. 

Sargent, John G. 

Turro, Charles 

Wilcomb, E. M. 

Young, Abbie H. . 



Stowe, Vt. 
McMahon, H. C. 

Waterbury, Vt. 
DaTis, W. F. 

Westport, N. Y. 

Lasher, W. Josr. ;/ 

West Rutland, Vt. 
Leonard, S. J. 

AVhitehall, N. Y. 
Andrews, A. M. 
Rich, Henry J. 
Shayne, Howard 

White River Junction,.. Vt. 

Bakerj.'Jane A. 
Barron, Mrs. Alice 
Hanson, H, L. 
Leonard, C. H. 
Perrin, D. ,A. 

Williamstown, Mass. 

McCarthy, D. J. 
Teague, H. N. 
Treadway, L. G. 

Windsor, Vt. 
Brown & Fowle 



Appendix 



187 



Hall, Mrs. L. M. 
Phillips, A. Fullerton 

Woodstock, Vt. 

Ashley, Mr. & Mrs. E. P. 
Bridgman, John J. 
Buckmian, Elba A. 
Chapman, 0. F. 
Chapman, F. 
Costello, J. J. • 

Emmons, A. B. 
Fuller, J. W. 
Furber, C. H. 
Gilman, E. W. 
Gobie, Ector P. 
Harrigan, T. M. 
Howes, E. B. 
Mackenzie, F. S. 



Maillet, Eev. H. J. 
Martin, Mrs. Ella F. 
Nutting, E. E. 
Perkins, Harold E. 
Smith, F. W. B. 
Sullivan, W. D. 
Thomas, Leroj E. 
WardweU, Mrs. E. F. 
Welch, John 
Wilder, F. W. 
Woods, Robert P. 
Woodstock Inn 

Woodsville, N. H. 
Fox, Ceylon A. 
Greene, Fred W. 
Sargent, E. A. 



THB NBW YORK PUBUC LIBRARY 

RBFBRBNGB DBPARTMBNT 



is book is nnd#r no oironmstsnoes to be 
tmkmn from the Bailding ^ 



• jiM 1 ii \^ii 






V IIW I **•€: 




















• 








- 




























• 








* 1 












1 








form 410 


• 


' 



v->v.*<? 




1 




