Hints to Housewives 

TX 357 — on — 

.N5 

191"^^ How to Buy 

°''^ How to Care for Food 

Meats 

Drippings and Butter Substitutes 

Substitutes for Meat 

Fish 

Vegetables 

Cereals 

Bread 

How to Use Left -Overs 

How to Make Soap 

Fireless Cooker 

Canning Fruits and Vegetables 

How to Preserve Eggs 



'Every housewife can 'DO HER BIT' towards solv- 
ing the food problem hy simplifying the meals 
she serves and by seeing to it that not one bit of 
food is wasted." 



Issued by 

Mayor MitcheFs Food Supply Committee 

71 Broadway, New York City 



lune 



1917 



o 



^^ 






O. of D. 
SEP 18 1917 



A PATRIOTIC CALL TO HOUSEWIVES 



VARIOUS reasons have been advanced for the present high cost of 
living, among them being the amount of food that we shipped to 
Europe last year and the shortage we had in certain crops, due 
to the unfavorable climatic and soil conditions that existed last year. 

As we will likely have to send to Europe this year as much or even 
more food than we did last year, we must, each and every one of us, do 
everything we can to economize and save the waste in order to avoid a 
shortage among our own people and keep down the cost of food as much 
as possible. 

The entire country has been aroused to the necessity for larger 
crops ; and greater quantities of food are being planted in the hope of 
raising enough to meet the pressing needs of Europe as well as to supply 
our own people. 

Not only are the farmers trying to meet the patriotic call that has 
been made on them for larger crops, but people all over the City and 
State are lending a hand toward solving the country's food problem by 
utilizing yards and vacant lots for vegetable gardens, in the hope of 
raising at least enough for their own use, thus releasing that much food 
for the use of others who have no land that they can cultivate. 

Every housewife can "do her bit" towards solving the food problem 
by simplifying the meals she serves and by seeing to it that not one bit 
of food is wasted. 

We have prepared this little book with the object of offering some 
practical hints as to the various ways in which economies can be effected 
and the waste saved. 

If every housewife will carefully read, study, and put into every- 
day use at once, the suggestions made in the following pages, she will 
not only be helping to reduce the high cost of living for her family and 
her neighbors, but will be rendering a distinct patriotic service to her 
country at this critical time. 



It costs about 10 cents to print and distribute this pamphlet. This Committee feels that 
the poorer people of New^ York City should have this pamphlet free of charge, and it plans to 
distribute as many in this way as its funds will permit. To this end it asks for contributions 
from those who believe this pamphlet will be helpful and who can afford to contribute to the 
fund that is being raised for the above purpose. Checks or post office money orders should 
be made payable to Mayor Mitchel's Food Supply Committee. 

Those ordering this pamphlet by mail will please enclose 10 cents in cash for each copy 
ordered. Do not send stamps. 



MAYOR MITCHEL'S FOOD SUPPLY COMMITTEE, 

Room 2012, 
71 Broadway, New York City. 



INDEX 



Page 

A Patriotic Call to Housewives. . 1 

How to Buy , 3 

How to Care for Food 6 

Beef 8 

The Use of Drippings and Butter Substitutes 10 

Sauces 12 

Salad Dressings 14 

Substitutes for Meat 16 

Substitutes for Meat Recipes ' 18 

Fish 36 

Fish Recipes 37 

Vegetables 49 

Vegetable Recipes 50 

Cereals 70 

Cereal Recipes 72 

Bread 76 

Bread Recipes 77 

How to Use Left-Overs 80 

Left-Over Recipes 82 

How to Make Soap 99 

Fireless Cooker 100 

Directions for Making Fireless Cooker at Home. . 101 

Fireless Cooker Recipes 102 

Canning Fruits With and Without Sugar 105 

Canning Vegetables 109 

How to Preserve Eggs Ill 

The Problem of the World 112 



HOW TO BUY 

Go to the store yourself. 

Select for yourself the article you desire to purchase. 

Inquire its price. 

If quality and price please you, be sure that you get in weight or 
measure the amount you buy. Watch the scale. Watch the measure. 

If the meat you purchase is weighed in a piece of paper or anything 
else, be sure you are not charged for the weight of the paper. 

You are entitled to all the bone and the trimmings of the piece of 
meat that you buy. You should take home and make use of such bone 
and trimmings. The fat can be rendered and used for cooking purposes; 
the bone and trimmings used for soup or stew. When the trimmings 
are not taken home the butcher throws them into a box under the coun- 
ter and sells them to someone else. They belong to you and you should 
have them. 

In buying meat, don't go in and ask for 25c. worth of meat and leave 
the butcher to decide how much meat you should have for a quarter. 
Select your piece of meat, ask the price per pound ; say how many 
pounds you want ; have it weighed ; see that you get your weight and 
that the butcher's calculation as to how much meat you have, at a certain 
price per pound, is correct. Many a penny is lost to the customer by 
neglecting the above simple precautions. 

In marketing, the pennies count up very fast. 

Don't allow your dealer to weigh in the wooden butter dish in 
weighing your butter unless he deducts the weight. 

Don't buy in small quantities if you can possibly avoid it. Make 
every effort to get together two or three dollars. This will enable you 
to buy for cash ; buy in larger quantities ; buy where you can do the best. 

In this way you can save two or three dollars in a very short time. 

Under the laws and regulations of the City you have definite rights 
in the matter of getting full measure and full weight for everything you 
buy, and the City's Bureau of Weights and Measures stands ready to 
help you get your rights. This is a protection that is due the honest 
dealer as well as yourself. 

Cheapness does not always mean quality or full weight. Be sure 
you get quality and quantity. 

Wherever possible buy in bulk and not in package. 

Have you ever stopped to figure out how much more you would 
get for your money if you bought certain articles of food by the pound 
instead of by the package? 

Food that is wrapped and sold in attractive-looking packages must 
of necessity cost more than the same food sold in bulk, which means 
sold by the pound. 

In the first place, the box or jar containing the food costs money. 



HOW TO BUY 

The wax paper used costs money. The wrapper costs money. The 
printing on the wrapper costs money. And it also costs money to fill 
the packages and seal them. It follows, therefore, that you cannot pos- 
sibly get as much food for your money when so large a part of your 
money has to pay for the box, wrapper, printing, etc. 

There are several reasons why so many foods are put up in packages. 

First: The package looks pretty, appeals to the eye, and makes 
the food seem more appetizing. 

Second: Most of the packages are air-tight and dustproof, and 
for sanitary reasons a great many people prefer food that is done up 
in packages. 

As a matter of fact, it is possible for your grocer to keep on hand, 
in bulk, exactly the same foods as the packages contain, and it is also 
possible for him to keep them in bulk in a perfectly sanitary manner, so 
that dust and dirt cannot reach them. 

STEAM-COOKED CEREALS— Steam-cooked cereals are not eco- 
nomical. Many cereal preparations, including most of those sold in 
packages, have been partially steam-cooked at the factory. This short- 
ens the time required to prepare them for the table, but, en the other 
hand, it injures their flavor and adds to them a large quantity of water, 
for the weight of which the purchaser pays. One cup of raw oatmeal 
will absorb four cups of water. One cup of steam-cooked oatmeal will 
absorb only two cups of water. Therefore, one cup of raw oatmeal, 
when cooked, will make twice as much as one cup of steam-cooked oat- 
meal, when cooked. 

An argument in favor of steam-cooked cereals is that they save 
time and fuel, but the raw cereals not only are more economical but far 
more nourishing, and you can shorten the time of cooking by soaking 
them overnight. All cereals require long, slow cooking. You can save 
both time and fuel, therefore, by using a fireless cooker for cereals. 
Cook the cereal on the stove for about 15 minutes; then put in fireless 
cooker and leave overnight. You will find it all cooked and ready to be 
eaten when you get up in the morning. For information as to how to 
make a fireless cooker at home and what can best be cooked in it, see the 
chapter in this book entitled "Fireless Cooker." 

If you will buy your Tapioca, Tea, Soda Crackers, Graham Crackers, 
Ginger Snaps, Macaroni and Starch in bulk instead of in package, you 
will get a great deal more for the money you spend. 

You will find it cheaper to buy your Vinegar loose rather than by 
the bottle. 

You will get a great deal more Bacon for less money if you will 
buy it in bulk instead of by the jar. 

PEACHES and APRICOTS — A can of peaches or apricots contains 
very little fruit. A pound of evaporated peaches or apricots costs less 
than a can and contains at least three times as much fruit. If properly 
cooked, evaporated peaches and apricots are just as good as, if not 
better, than the canned fruit and, in addition, you get a great deal more 
for your money. 

4 



HOW TO BUY 

You can get twice as much Shredded Codfish if you buy it loose 
rather than by the package. 

PEAS AND LIMA BEANS — By buying dried peas and lima beans 
instead of canned ones you can get twice the amount for one-half the 
money. Dried peas and lima beans can be used in place of canned peas 
or beans for creamed soups and purees, and one cup of dried peas or 
beans will go as far as two cups of canned peas or beans. 

BEANS — Canned baked beans are expensive. Even counting in 
the cost of fuel you can bake the same amount of beans for one-half the 
money. 

TOMATOES — Instead of using whole canned tomatoes for soups, 
sauces, etc., buy canned tomato pulp, which costs one-half the price. 

WHY SHOULD YOU BUY THINGS IN PACKAGES WHEN 
YOU CAN GET ALMOST TWICE AS MUCH OF THE SAME 
ARTICLE FOR THE SAME AMOUNT OF MONEY IF YOU BUY 
IT IN BULK? 

Sit down and make a list of the various foods that you have been in 
the habit of buying in packages. 

Think of the money you might have saved had you bought them in 
bulk. 

Make up your mind to buy them in bulk in the future, if it is pos- 
sible for you to get them. 

It will pay you to break yourself of the package habit. There are 
many foods sold now in packages only that your grocer will be glad to 
carry in bulk as soon as he knows that you and his other customers 
want them. 

The manufacturer, the wholesale dealer and the retail dealer keep 
on the watch all the time to find out what the public wants. Of late 
years the public has seemed to want food in attractive packages at a high 
cost. As soon as people learn that by demanding it they can get exactly 
the same food in bulk, kept in a perfectly sanitary manner, for about 
one-half to two-thirds the cost of package food, the manufacturer, the 
wholesaler and the retailer will meet the demand. 

BUY IN BULK AND SAVE MONEY. 



HOW TO CARE FOR FOOD 

Save money — avoid waste — keep well — by taking proper care of the 
food you buy. 

A food may contain sufficient nourishment to give it high vakie as a 
food and yet if proper care is not taken of it the food may become 
poisonous. 

Food is often exposed to impure air and to dust and filth from un- 
clean streets and surroundings. This contaminates it, and such food, 
when eaten, will often produce disease. In order to keep food in the 
most wholesome condition special care should be taken that all its sur- 
roundings are sanitary. There are many things that influence the whole- 
someness of food, among them being the air, the dishes in which the 
food is placed, the ice-box, the cellar or closet where it is stored, and the 
other food with which it comes in contact. 
Foods may be divided into three classes: 

First — Those that spoil easily; 

Second — Those that do not spoil so easily; 

Third — Those that may be kept a long time with proper care. 

FIRST — The foods that spoil easily are milk, cream, uncooked meat, 
uncooked fish, certain fruits, such as peaches and plums, and vegetables 
that wilt easily, such as lettuce and spinach. 

MILK AND CREAM — Milk and cream bottles are usually dirty on 
the outside when delivered to you. Wash them carefully, particularly 
the top of the bottle, before opening, so that no dirt can possibly get into 
the milk or cream. If the bottles are not washed out well when empty, 
the particles that are left may decay and when new fresh milk or cream 
is poured into the bottles, these particles will cause it to become sour. 
Never leave milk or cream uncovered. If you do it will take up the 
odors and flavors from other food and become spoiled for table use. 

UNCOOKED MEAT— Do not keep your meat in the paper in 
which it is wrapped when bought ; the wrapping paper will absorb the 
juices. Unwrap it as soon as you get it home and wipe it off with a 
clean cloth that has been wrung out of cold water. The meat will keep 
better and the juices will remain in it longer if you will wrap it in wax 
paper until you are readv to use it. 

UNCOOKED FISH— Never put uncooked fish into the ice-box un- 
less the fish is closely covered. You \viil find a tin lard pail useful for 
this purpose. If the fish is not covered other food in the ice-box will 
absorb the strong odors from it and be made unfit for use. 

Odors always rise; strongly-flavored food, therefore, should be put 
on the upper shelf of the ice-box, so that the odors from it will not afifect 
other things in the ice-box quite so much. 

Perishable foods should always be kept at a low temperature; in 
other words, they should be kept where it is cool. 

FRUITS — All fruits should be kept in a cool, dry place and spread 
out, if possible. It is not necessary to put them in the ice-box. Fruits 
are handled a great deal before they reach you and should never be used 
without first being washed off. As ripe fruit spoils easily only a small 
quantity should be bought at a time. 

VEGETABLES — Vegetables that are to be eaten in a raw state 
should be dipped quickly in boiling water to destroy any germs, and then 

6 



HOW TO CARE FOR FOOD 

put in cheese cloth and placed directly on the ice to preserve their crisp- 
ness. Lettuce should be carefully picked over and washed at once. If 
put in clean cheese cloth and placed directly on the ice it will be much 
more crisp than if allowed to remain in water, and will also keep longer. 

SECOND — The foods that do not spoil so easily are eggs, butter, 
fruits such as apples, oranges and lemons, cooked meat, and cooked, 
salted and smoked fish. 

EGGS — Care is necessary in the handling of eggs, as the spoiling is 
partly due to uncleanly handling, the shells being more or less porous. 
It is best to wash them as soon as you get them home. When only the 
yolk of the egg is used, the white may be kept in a cup or glass, covered 
with a damp cloth fastened with an elastic band ; or, if only the white is 
used, the yolk can be kept in the same way. 

BUTTER — Butter should be kept w^ell covered and in a cool place. 
If it is not well covered it will take up the odors of the other food in 
the ice-box, and this spoils it for table use. 

COOKED MEAT AND FISH will keep much better if they are 
well covered before being placed in the ice-box. Cooked meat and fish 
attract flies and should never be allowed to stand uncovered. Do not 
put warm meat or warm food of any kind in the ice-box. If you do, it 
will materially change the temperature of the box and rapidly melt the 
ice. Keep the food covered while it is cooling, and put it in the ice-box 
when it has become cool. 

THIRD — The foods that can be kept a long time with proper care 
are flour, sugar, salt, coffee, tea, spices and chocolate. All these should 
be kept closely covered to keep out dust and dirt. Coffee, tea and spices 
will lose their flavor if left uncovered. 

CANNED GOODS may also be kept a long time. Never allow the 
contents of a can to remain in it once the can is opened. If the food is 
allowed to stay in the can after it is opened sickness may come from 
eating it. You will also find that all canned goods will taste much better 
if the contents of the can are emptied and allowed to stand for an hour 
to get the air before being cooked. In the case of canned peas, beans 
and asparagus the liquid should be drained off as soon as the can is 
opened and cold water poured over them. It is not only safer to do this 
but the vegetables will taste much better. 

CEREALS — It is best not to buy cereals in very large quantities 
because, if they are kept too long, insects are apt to develop in them. 
Cereals should always be kept in covered glass jars. 

THE BREAD BOX needs special care, particularly in Summer 
when mould forms quickly. Bread that has become mouldy is unfit to 
eat. The bread box should be scalded with hot water frequently and 
then dried and aired well before the bread is returned to the box. 

CHEESE should be kept in a cool, dry place. It should be wrapped 
in a clean cloth moistened with vinegar. This will prevent the forma- 
tion of mould. 

AVOID WASTE BY TAKING CARE OF THE FOOD YOU BUY. 

7 



BEEF 




The numbers on this picture show the location of the various cuts 
of beef. 

No. 9— Chuck 

No. 10— Blade 

No. 11 — Shoulder 

No. 12— Neck 

No. 13— Brisket 

No. 14— Plate 

No. 15— Navel 

No. 16— Shin 



No. 


1 — Porterhouse 


No. 


2 — Sirloin 


No. 


3 — Round 


No. 


4— Top Sirloin 


No. 


5— Rib Roast 


No. 


6 — Rump 


No. 


7— Cross Rib 



No. 8— Flank 



Do you know that the less tender cuts are more nourishing than the 
more expensive cuts? 

Do you know that the less expensive cuts, if properly cooked and 
seasoned, are mighty good eating? 

Flank steak costs much less than top sirloin or round steak, and 
makes an excellent roast. It can also be pot roasted or used as chopped 
meat. Try it. 

Chuck or round steak costs much less than porterhouse or sirloin 
and can be broiled in the same manner. Try it. 

Chuck roast costs much less than rib roast and will make just as 
appetizing a dish if the bone is removed, the meat rolled and then 
roasted. Try it. 

The beef neck is juicy and well flavored. It makes a good pot roast 
and excellent stews and soups. Try it. 

8 



BEEF 

The cross rib makes an excellent pot roast and there is no waste. 
Try it . 

Shin of beef makes a good "beef a. la mode." Cut it up the same 
as for stew; brown the pieces in hot fat; then add water; cook in a pot 
the same as pot roast, and serve with the gravy. By browning the meat 
in hot fat you retain its juices and this adds greatly to the flavor of the 
dish. Try it. 

Shin of beef makes a most nourishing soup and the meat can be 
taken from the pot afterwards and served with horseradish sauce. 
Try it. 

In broiling or roasting the less tender cuts, if you are afraid that 
they will not be as tender as you would like, they can be made tender if 
treated in the following simple manner : Mix two tablespoons of 
oil ; one tablespoon of vinegar ; brush this over the meat and let the 
meat stand for half an hour before cooking it. 

If you buy a rib roast of beef have your butcher cut the rib end ofT 
so that you can use it for making soup. If it is left on and roasted with 
the rest of the meat it is largely wasted. 

In corned beef, the flank piece, the naval piece, the plate piece and 
the brisket piece cost the least. These cuts are much more juicy and 
palatable than the rump piece, and the left-over portions can be used 
to make a splendid hash. Try it. 

Be sure that the beef you buy has a red rosy color; that it is well 
streaked with fat ; that the fat is yellow white ; that the lean is firm and 
elastic and scarcely moist when touched with the finger. 

Do not buy beef that is wet or flabby or that looks pink or purple 
as it lies on the counter. 

IT WILL PAY YOU 
TO TRY THE LESS EXPENSIVE CUTS. 



THE USE OF DRIPPINGS AND BUTTER 
SUBSTITUTES 

The average American housewife has no conception of the value of 
fats as food, and as a result much fat is wasted that should be used as 
food. 

Fats are one of the principal sources of energy. \\'e buy fat in the 
form of butter and spread it on our bread. We use lard as shortening 
in bread and pastry and as a medium in which to fry other foods. The 
grease which melts out of ham and bacon is sometimes made into 
gravies ; but more often it is thrown away, because the housewife does 
not reahze its value as a food. Beef fat is less appreciated as a food 
even than lard, and yet pound for pound it is as valuable as butter or 
lard or any other animal fat. 

When we buy a beefsteak the butcher carefully trims off the fat 
and throws it into a box under the counter with bones and other waste 
which goes to the soapmaker. This fat has both a food value and a 
money value. It belongs to you and you should have it. You can 
render it and use it in cooking. 

The fine lumps of sweet beef fat or suet which adhere to the roast 
are used in roasting to give flavor, but most of the fat melts away and 
is not served at the table. Beef suet is occasionally used in cooking, but 
rendered beef fat is rarely used as a table fat in this country, although 
in Europe it is often eaten on bread in the place of butter. Beef suet 
has a rather pronounced flavor and a comparatively high melting point. 
These are probably the reasons why it is not more commonly used as 
a table fat. Much of the objectionable taste may be readily removed. 
One household method which may successfully be followed is to mix 
milk with the suet when it is rendered, using one-half cupful of milk to a 
pound of suet. When strained and cooled the flavor of the milk is ab- 
sorbed by the beef fat and changes the characteristic flavor. 

We must not longer allow beef fat to be sold for soap stock. To-day 
butter is about fifty "cents a pound and lard about thirty cents. Beef 
fat, which pound for pound is as valuable as either lard or butter, is 
fifteen cents a pound in most markets. Indeed, in some places butchers 
sell it for less than that. 

If housewives would use beef fat instead of butter in every process 
of cooking in which they could possibly introduce it, their families would 
get the fat they need at one-third the cost of butter. 

Get into the habit of using beef drippings as food. Every pound 
of beef drippings you save takes the place of a pound of expensive butter. 

DRIPPINGS. As a substitute for butter in cooking certain foods, 
and also in seasoning vegetables there is nothing better than sweet, 
savory drippings. The following fats make savory drippings and can be 
employed alone or in combination. The fat from fried sausages, ham, 
bacon and pork and from roast pork, veal and chicken. The fat skimmed 

10 



THE USE OF DRIPPINGS AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTES 

from the water in which poultry has been boiled and the fats skimmed 
from the gravies of most roast meats should be clarified and saved. 
Great care must be taken that all these fats are clean and sweet, and that 
the temperature at which they are tried out shall not be so high as to 
Impair the flavor. lUirned or scorched fat is not only unpleasant in 
flavor, but is a frequent cause of indigestion. 

Not all meats supply fats that are savory in the sense in whicfe the 
word is employed here. Most people do not use the fat from mutton, 
lamb, duck, goose and turkey because of their flavor ; but these fats can 
be used just as well as any other fat if you do not object to thoir flavor, 
or if they are combined with a larger quantity of other fats. 

HOW TO PREPARE FAT FOR FRYING. Fats are "tried out" 
or rendered, to free them from connective tissue, then clarified to remove 
water and impurities. Suet and scraps must first be tried out, and then 
clarified ; soup fat and drippings need only to be clarified. 

TO TRY OUT FAT. Cut the fat into bits, put it into a frying- 
pan, or better, a double boiler, and let it cook slowly for several hours. 
When the fat is melted and nearly free from water, strain it, pressing to 
obtain all the fat. 

TO CLARIFY FAT. Melt drippings or tried-out fat. add to it a 
few slices of raw potato, and heat slowly in the oven until it ceases to 
bubble. The potato absorbs some of the impurities; most of the rest 
settle to the bottom. Strain the fat through cheese-cloth, and let it 
stand undisturbed till solid. If stirred, it absorbs moisture from the air. 
Since it keeps longer if left unbroken, it is well to strain it into cups or 
any small jars you may have on hand, so that a portion may be used 
without disturbing the rest. 

When rendering the trimmings of fat meat, add a small onion (do 
not cut it), a teaspoon of salt, and a little pepper. This seasoning is 
enough for half a pint of fat. 

Keep the drippings covered and in a cool, dry place. 

SUBSTITUTES FOR BUTTER 

There are many substitutes for butter on the market such as oleo- 
margarine and nut margarine. Such butter substitutes can frecjuently 
be used to advantage in place of butter. As they cost about one-half 
the price of butter you can effect a decided saving by using them. 

AN EXCELLENT SUBSTITUTE FOR BUTTER. An excellent 
substitute for butter can be made in the following manner : Put 3^ tea- 
spoon of powdered gelatine in a bowl and dissolve it in 1 tablespoon of 
water. Then add 3^ cup of moderately hot milk (the top of the bottle 
is best) and 54 ^b. of oleomargarine. Beat the mixture until it is creamy, 
and then put in the ice-box to cool. This makes a splendid butter for 
table use. 

As oleomargarine costs only one-half as much as butter and as you 
get i/j lb. of butter substitute by using only ^4 lb. of oleomargarine, you 
really get Yi lb. of butter substitute for >4 the price of butter by using 
the above recipe. 

11 



SAUCES 

WHITE SAUCE. 

2 tablespoons flour Yi teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter }i. teaspoon white pepper 

1 cup milk 

Mix flour and butter together until no flour can be seen. Add milk 
slowly and stir over moderate fire until it thickens. Remove from the 
fire and add salt and pepper. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

^ can tomatoes or canned 1 bay leaf 

tomato pulp 1 clove 

1 slice onion 2 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons butter or drippings 
Cook tomatoes, onion, bay leaf and clove together for ten minutes ; 
strain. Rub flour and butter or drippings together until smooth and 
add strained tomatoes. Cook over moderate fire until the sauce thickens. 

BROWN SAUCE. 

2 tablespoons butter or drippings 1 cup brown stock 
Yz slice onion 3^4 teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons flour Y?> teaspoon pepper 

Cook onion in butter or drippings until slightly browned ; remove 
onion and stir butter or drippings constantly until well browned; add 
flour mixed with seasoning, and brown the butter or drippings and flour; 
then add stock gradually. 

BECHAMEL SAUCE. Make a white sauce according to directions 
given. Add a cup of stock or half stock and half milk. A slice of onion, 
carrot and turnip should be fried in the butter before the flour is added. 

DRAWN BUTTER. Beat one cup of butter or butter substitute 
and two spoons of flour to a cream ; pour over this one pint of boil- 
ing water; set on fire and let it come to a boil, but do not boil. Serve 
immediately. 

EGG SAUCE. To a pint, or two cups, of white sauce, add three 
hard-boiled eggs cut into slices or small dice, and, if liked, a tablespoon 
of chopped parsley. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL SAUCE. Two tablespoons of butter or butter 
substitute, one tablespoon of chopped parsley, one tablespoon of lemon 
juice, half teaspoon of salt, half teaspoon of pepper. 

Rub the butter or butter substitute to a cream ; add salt, pepper and 
parsley chopped very fine; then the lemon-juice slowly. Spread it on 
broiled meat or fish; let the heat of the meat melt the sauce. The dish 
must not be put in the oven after the sauce is spread, or the parsley will 
lose its freshness and color. This sauce, which greatly improves as well 
as garnishes broiled meat, can be mixed and kept for some time in a 

12 



SAUCES 

cool place. Soften a little before using, so it will spread evenly, and be 
quickly melted by the hot meat or fish. 

TARTARE SAUCE. To a cup of Mayonnaise made with mus- 
tard, add one tablespoon of capers, three olives, and two gherkins, 
all chopped very fine. A good Tartare sauce can be made by using Tar- 
ragon vinegar and a little onion-juice when mixing the Mayonnaise, and 
adding parsley and capers, both chopped very fine, just before serving it. 

SUGAR SYRUP. Put two cups of sugar and a half cup of water 
into a saucepan on the fire. Stir until the sugar is dissolved, then let 
it cook slowly without touching it for about 10 minutes, or until it is a 
clear syrup. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

2 teaspoons arrowroot or 1 cup sugar 

corn-starch Grated rind and juice of 1 lemon 

2 cups water 1^ tablespoons butter 

Mix arrowroot or corn-starch with sugar. Add boiling water and 
cook twenty minutes. Add flavoring and butter. Serve hot. 



13 



SALAD DRESSINGS 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. Success in making a mayonnaise 

dressing generally depends upon all the ingredients being of the same 
temperature. 

1 egg 1 tablespoon vinegar 

1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

li teaspoon cayenne 1 cup olive oil 

1 teaspoon mustard % teaspoon paprika 

]\Iix salt, cayenne, mustard and paprika. Beat yolk well, and add to 
seasonings ; beat until mixture is thick, adding olive oil, drop by drop, 
for the first four tablespoons, then more rapidly until oil is used, thin- 
ning as needed with lemon juice and vinegar. Beat up the white of the 
egg until perfectly stiff and dry, add to the above and mix thoroughly. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

4 tablespoons olive oil ^ teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon vinegar i/g teaspoon pepper 

Put the salt and pepper in the salad bowl, or in a small bowl if the 
sauce is to be served separately. Add a little oil and stir well, then 
gradually add the remainder of the oil, stirring all the while. Last of 
all stir in the vinegar, which should be diluted with water if very strong. 

This sauce may be modified to suit different vegetables. As it is 
given it is right for lettuce, chicory, cooked asparagus, cauliflower, arti- 
choke, etc. 

Cream may be substituted for the oil, but the salad is not so rich. 

COOKED SALAD DRESSING. 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 

y2 cup vinegar 1 teaspoon mustard 

1 cup milk ^ teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon oil or butter 

Put the oil and dry ingredients into a bowl and mix w^ell. Add the 
eggs and beat for five minutes, then add the vinegar and beat one 
minute. Now add the milk, place the bowl in a pan of boiling water, 
and cook until the sauce thickens like thin cream. It will take about 
ten minutes. Stir the sauce constantly while cooking. Cool and bottle 
what you do not require for immediate use. This sauce is good for 
nearly all kinds of cooked vegetables. 

If butter is substituted for the oil, add it just before taking the 
sauce from the fire. 

SOUR CREAM DRESSING. 

y^ pint sour cream I teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons lemon juice ^ teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons vinegar 1 teaspoon or more mixed 
1 scant tablespoon sugar mustard 

Beat the cream with an egg beater until smooth, thick, and light. 

14 



SALAD DRESSINGS 

Mix the other ingredients together and gradually add to the cream, 
beating all the while. 

This dressing may be modified to suit different vegetables. Hav- 
ing beaten sour cream for a foundation the seasoning may be anything 
desired, as, for example, the mustard and lemon may be omitted and 
the dressing be seasoned highly with any kind of catsup. 

A sweet cream may be substituted for the sour; it should be quite 
thick. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING. 

1 cup cream (sweet or sour) 2 tablespoons vinegar 
Yz cup tomato catsup 2 tablespoons sugar 

2 tablespoons olive oil 1 teaspoon salt 

Mix the oil, salt, sugar, and vinegar together, then beat in the 
catsup and finally add the cream, beating it in gradually. 

This dressing is very good for vegetables, or for fish salads. 



15 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT 

You eat in order to keep yourself alive. 

The work you do, the exercise you take, the thoughts you think, 
each breath you draw — all these use up a certain proportion of your 
body each day. If you want to live and keep well, this used-up portion 
must be replaced, and this is done through the food you eat. Part of 
your food furnishes you with new blood; part of it goes to make bone; 
part of it builds up new tissue or flesh, etc. 

Meat has always been considered the best tissue or flesh-building 
food, and for this reason people have always eaten it a great deal. Most 
of our meat has come from the Western states, but the tremendously 
large ranches of twenty years ago are gradually being cut up into small 
farms and cattle are not being raised in such large numbers any more. 
This is one reason why meat costs so much. Another reason is the great 
demand there is for it on the part of our people who do not know that 
there are other foods that will supply the needs of the body in just the 
same way that meat does and which in ordinary times do not cost as 
much as meat. For instance, we can use fish in place of meat much 
more than we do. Other foods that can be used in place of meat are 
eggs, milk, creamed soups, macaroni, cheese, cereals, peas, beans, lentils, 
nuts and bananas. 

EGGS contain all the elements, in the right proportion, necessary 
for the support of the body. They are rich in the same flesh-building 
elements as the lean of meat, and, therefore, make an excellent substi- 
tute for meat. They should be eaten with foods that are rich in starch, 
such as bread and potatoes. If so eaten, they will take care of your body 
just as completely as meat would. 

MILK contains heat-giving, energy-giving and tissue-building prop- 
erties. Cream soups and purees made with milk and the pulp of vege- 
tables can take the place of meat. 

MACARONI, SPAGHETTI and NOODLES contain so much 
starch and flesh-building material that they are equal to meat as a food 
if combined with cheese. The fat that they lack is supplied by the 
cheese, and when so combined they make a perfect food. 

CHEESE contains in a condensed form the same flesh-building 
material as meat and can be used in place of it. If combined with 
macaroni, rice, etc., it will supply all the needs of the body. 

CEREALS contain in varying proportion all the elements necessary 
to support life. They contain a great deal of starch, which is valuable 
as an energy giver. Oatmeal and corn-meal contain more fat than the 
other cereals, and, therefore, make a good winter food, especially for 
hard-working people. Cereals with cooked fruits are particularly 
appetizing. 

16 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT 

PEAS, BEANS and LENTILS are richer in flesh-building mate- 
rial than any other vegetable and can be used in place of meat. Lentils 
are more easily digested than either peas or beans. If properly pre- 
pared, all these make very appetizing dishes. A dish of baked beans, 
costing about 20 cents, will furnish a family of six with more nourish- 
ment than two pounds of beef costing 50 cents. 

NUTS contain in a condensed form the same flesh-building mate- 
rial as meat. Some of them contain a great deal of fat as well. They 
should not be eaten between meals, but, either raw or cooked, they can 
be used in place of meat. A pound of shelled almonds is equal in food 
value to three pounds of steak. Hickory-nuts and pecans added to 
mufifins or yeast breads may be used as a substitute for meat. Peanuts 
are also rich in fat and flesh-building material. 

BANANAS contain most of the nourishment that meat does, and if 
eaten with bread and butter make an excellent lunch without the addi- 
tion of meat. Most children prefer banana sandwiches to meat sand- 
wiches, and they cost much less. 

In stating that these dishes can be used in place of meat it is not 
our purpose to urge you to give up eating meat altogether. It is a fact, 
however, that as a people we eat too much meat, and you would un- 
doubtedly find yourself much benefited physically if you would cut 
down on the amount of meat you eat and vary your diet more than 
you do. 

You do not have to eat meat in order to keep well and strong. A 
great many people never eat meat at all, but find in other foods all the 
strength and life-giving properties they require. 

If our meat supply continues to dwindle in the future as it has in 
the past, meat will some day be very scarce, and sooner or later you will 
have to learn to use other foods in place of meat. 

BEGIN TO LEARN RIGHT NOW. 



17 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 
EGGS 

EGGS WITH CHEESE 

4 eggs Pepper 

5^2 Clip milk Salt 

1 tablespoon butter or drippings Cayenne 

2 tablespoons grated cheese 
Heat a small omelet pan, put in butter or drippings, and, when 
melted, add milk. Slip in the eggs one at a time; sprinkle with 
salt, pepper and a few grains of cayenne. When whites are nearly firm 
sprinkle with cheese. Finish cooking, and serve on buttered toast. 
Pour sauce from the pan over the eggs. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH TOMATOES 

4 eggs M teaspoon paprika 

Yz cup stewed and strained tomatoes 2 tablespoons butter or 

or canned tomato pulp drippings 

y^ teaspoon salt 

Beat eggs slightly and add tomatoes, salt and paprika. Melt butter 
or drippings in a frying-pan, add seasoned eggs, and cook same 
as scrambled eggs. Butter slices of toasted bread. Pour eggs over the 
toast and sprinkle with parsley. 

EGGS BAKED IN TOMATOES. Eggs may be baked in small 
tomatoes. Cut a slice from stem end of tomato, scoop out the pulp, slip 
in an ^'g^, sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover with buttered crumbs 
and bake. 

POACHED EGGS WITH CHEESE. Arrange poached eggs on 
a shallow buttered dish. Sprinkle with grated cheese. Pour over eggs 
one pint white sauce. Cover with stale bread crumbs and sprinkle with 
grated cheese. Brown in oven. Tomato sauce may be used instead of 
white sauce. 

CHEESE OMELET. 

2 eggs ^ teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon melted butter or Few grains cayenne 

drippings 1 tablespoon grated cheese 

Beat eggs slightly ; add one-half teaspoonful of melted butter or 
drippings, salt, cayenne and cheese. Melt remaining butter or drip- 
pings in frying-pan, add mixture and cook until firm without stirr- 
ing. Roll and sprinkle with grated cheese. 

BREAD OMELET. 

3 eggs Yi cup of bread crumbs 
J4 teaspoon salt ^ cup of milk 

1 dash of black pepper Piece of butter or butter substitute, 

size of walnut 

18 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

Beat the eggs separately. Add to the yolks the milk, salt, pepper 
and the bread crumbs. Now stir into this carefully the beaten whites ; 
mix very lightly. Put the butter or butter substitute in a very smooth 
frying-pan ; as soon as hot turn in the mixture gently, and set it over a 
clear fire, being very careful not to burn ; shake occasionally to see that 
the omelet does not stick. Now stand your frying-pan in the oven for a 
moment to set the middle of the omelet. When done, toss it over on a 
warm platter to bring the brown side of the omelet uppermost; or, it 
may be folded in half and then turned out in the center of the platter. 
Serve immediately or it will fall. 

CREAMED CHEESE AND EGGS. 

3 hard boiled eggs 1 tablespoon .flour 

Yi teaspoon salt Few grains cayenne 

^ 4 slices toast 1 cup milk 

y^ cup grated cheese 
Make a thin white sauce with flour, milk and seasoning. Add 
cheese, stir till melted. Chop ^^^ whites and add to sauce. Pour over 
toast. Force yolks through a strainer. Sprinkle over the toast. 

SOUPS 

Soup is thought to be an expensive luxury by some people, but it is 
really a means of economy ; for a tempting and nutritious soup can be 
made of the cheapest materials, including remnants of food that cannot 
be used in any other way. 

Barley is very nourishing and can be used instead of flour to thicken 
any soup. Directions : Wash barley and soak overnight. Next day add 
water to the barley and boil it for three or four hours. Then press it 
through a sieve and add it to the soup. This thickening can be used in 
any cream soup in place of flour. 

CREAM OF POTATO SOUP. 

1 qt. milk or milk and water 1^-2 tablespoons flour 
Ij^ cups potatoes mashed 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter or butter Few grains pepper 
substitute 1 sliced onion 

1 bay leaf 
Put the onion and bay leaf into the milk and heat to the scalding 
point. Remove the onion and bay leaf and add the mashed potatoes. 
Stir until smooth; then add the flour and butter or butter substitute 
rubbed together. Cook until it thickens slightly. Add seasoning and 
sprinkle over with finely chopped parsley. 

CREAM OF PEA SOUP. 

1 can peas 1 slice onion 

2 teaspoons sugar 2 tablespoons butter or drippings 
1 pint water 2 tablespoons flour 

1 pint milk 1 teaspoon salt 

y% teaspoon pepper 
Drain peas from their liquor, add sugar and cold water and simmer 

19 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

twenty minutes. Rub through a sieve, reheat and thicken with butter 
or drippings and flour cooked together. Scald milk with onion, 
remove onion and add milk to pea mixture. Left-over peas can be used 
in place of canned peas. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP. 

Small can of tomatoes or 1 quart milk 

canned tomato pulp 1 slice onion 

2 tablespoons butter or 1 slice green pepper 

drippings Salt and pepper to taste 

2 tablespoons flour Few grains cayenne 

y^ teaspoon of bicarbonate of soda 

Put tomatoes, onion and green pepper into a saucepan and cook 
slowly for about ten minutes ; then put through a strainer. Rub -flour 
and butter or drippings together until smooth. Add this to the 
milk and stir over moderate fire until it thickens slightly. Add soda to 
the tomato juice and pour the milk into the tomato juice. Do not com- 
bine tomato and milk until ready to serve. 

CREAM OF CAULIFLOWER SOUP. 

4 cups hot stock or water ^ bay leaf 

1 cauliflower y^ cup flour 

2 tablespoons butter or drippings 2 cups milk 
1 slice onion Salt 

1 stalk celery cut in inch pieces, Pepper 
or Yi teaspoon celery salt 

Soak cauliflower, head down, one hour in enough cold water to 
cover; cook in boiling salted water twenty minutes. Reserve one-half 
flowerets, and rub remaining cauliflower through sieve. Cook onion, 
celery, and bay leaf in butter or drippings five minutes. Remove bay 
leaf, then add flour and stir into hot stock or water; add cauliflower 
and milk. Season with salt and pepper; then strain, add flowerets, and 
reheat. 

CREAM OF CARROT SOUP. 

Carrots li<^ teaspoons salt 

2 slices onion Few grains cayenne 
Sprig parsley 2 cups water 

y^ cup rice 2 cups scalded milk 

2 tablespoons butter or 2 tablespoons flour 

drippings 

Chop enough carrots to make two cups. Cook in water until tender. 
Press through sieve, keeping the water the carrots were cooked in. Cook 
rice in milk in double boiler. Cook onion in butter or drippings; add 
flour and seasonings. Mix carrots with rice and milk, and add butter 
or drippings, flour and the water the carrots were cooked in ; bring to the 
boiling point, strain and serve. Garnish with chopped parsley. If this 
soup seems too thick, thin with milk. 

20 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

CREAM OF CABBAGE SOUP. 

1 small cabbage 2 tablespoons butter or drippings 

2 cups water 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups milk >i teaspoon pepper 

3 slices onion Few grains cayenne 
2 tablespoons flour 

Chop cabbage, add water, and cook until tender ; press through a 
sieve. Melt butter or drippings, add chopped onion, cook slowly 
five minutes, add flour, scalded milk and cabbage mixture; cook five 
minutes. Add seasonings, strain and serve. 

CREAM OF RICE SOUP. 

1 cup rice 1 cup milk 

6 cups cold water 2 tablespoons butter or drippings 

1 small onion 2 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley Salt and pepper 

Cook rice and onion in cold water until rice is tender. Press 
through a sieve. Melt butter or drippings, add flour, milk, and season- 
ings ; boil five minutes. Combine mixtures. Add parsley and serve. 
(The parsle^^ can be left out if not wanted.) 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS; CREAM OF GREEN PEAS; 
CREAM OF STRING BEANS; CREAM OF SPINACH; CREAM 
OF CORN; CREAM OF CELERY. These soups are very delicate, 
and are much esteemed. They are all made in the same way. The 
vegetable is boiled until soft, and is then pressed through a sieve. A 
pint of the vegetable pulp is diluted with a quart of stock or water (the 
stock may be veal, beef or chicken broth). It is thickened with one 
tablespoon of butter or drippings, and two tablespoons of flour 
rubbed together until smooth, and seasoned with pepper and salt. Re- 
move from the stove and add one cup of milk ; then strain again, so it 
will be perfectly smoth. 

POTATO CHOWDER. 

6 good-sized potatoes 1 tablespoon flour 

14 lb. salt pork 1 pint milk 

1 onion 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 tablespoon butter or 1 teaspoon salt 

drippings 3^ teaspoon pepper 

Cut the potatoes into dice ; then cut the pork into small pieces, and 
put the pork with the sliced onion into a frying-pan, and fry until a 
light brown. 

Put into a kettle a layer of potatoes, then a layer of onions and pork, 
and sprinkle with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. Repeat this until 
all the potatoes, pork, onions, and parsley are in. Pour over them the 
grease from the pan in which the pork and onions were fried. Add one 
pint of water, cover, and let simmer twenty minutes. vScald the milk 
in a double boiler, and add the flour and butter or drippings, rubbed 
together until smooth. Add this to the pot when the potatoes are 
tender, and stir carefully together, so as not to break the potatoes. 
Taste to see if the seasoning is right. Serve very hot. 

21 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

CORN CHOWDER. 

1 can corn 3 cups water 

1 cup salt pork cut in cubes 2 cups milk 

1 cup potatoes 1 tablespoon butter or drippings 
y2 cup onion 1 tablespoon flour 

Salt and pepper 3^ cup cracker crumbs 

Cook salt pork in frying-pan five minutes ; add onion and cook until 
yellow. Parboil potatoes five minutes ; add to onion with corn and 
water; cook twenty minutes. Thicken milk with butter or drippings 
and flour cooked together. Combine mixtures; add cracker crumbs and 
seasonings, and serve. 

Succotash may be substituted for corn. 

CHESTNUT SOUP. 

2 cups chestnuts shelled and Cayenne 
blanched Nutmeg 

3 cups cold water 2 tablespoons onion 

2 cups scalded milk 2 tablespoons butter or drippings 

y^, teaspoon celery salt 2 tablespoons flour 

Salt 1 .cup milk 

Cook chestnuts in cold water until tender, press through a sieve, 
and add scalded milk. Cook onion in butter or drippings five minutes, 
add flour, seasonings and chestnut mixture. Cook five minutes, add 
milk, strain and serve. 

Note — To shell chestnuts, make a cross on either side of the nut 
with a sharp knife. Put one teaspoon melted butter or drippings 
in dripping-pan; add chestnuts and cook in oven until shells come off 
easily. 

EGG SOUP (Four Persons). 

4 cups of milk 4 eggs 

4 level teaspoons of flour Yi teaspoon of salt 

Pinch of pepper 

Boil two of the eggs hard ; put the milk into the double boiler, and 
when heated stir in thoroughly the flour, wet in cold milk. Cook from 
fifteen to twenty minutes, stirring frequently, and stir in two of the eggs, 
which have been beaten very light, stirring constantly over the fire for 
two minutes. Add the seasoning; chop the hard-boiled ^%^ very fine, 
sprinkle over the top of soup, and serve. 

CHEESE SOUP. 

2 tablespoons of cheese Ya teaspoon of pepper 

1 quart of hot milk 5^ teaspoon of salt 

2 well-beaten eggs 1 cupful boiled rice or spaghetti 

In a large saucepan melt the cheese with a little milk. AMien the 
cheese is melted, slowly add one quart of hot milk (do not let the 
milk come to a boil, keep stirring constantly). Then stir in the two well- 
beaten eggs, adding them very slowly to prevent curdling. Cook for 
five minutes, adding the seasoning and one cupful of boiled rice or 
spaghetti, but do not let the mixture boil at any time. 

22 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

SPLIT-PEA OR BEAN SOUP. 

1 cup of split peas, or 2 quarts of water 

1 cup of dried beans 1 tablespoon of flour 

1 tablespoon of butter or Salt and pepper to taste 

drippings 
Let the peas or beans soak overnight in three quarts of cold water. 
Drain off water and put the soaked peas or beans into a saucepan with 
two quarts of water and a ham-bone, if you have it, otherwise it may- 
be omitted. Let simmer for four or five hours, or until the peas or 
beans are perfectly soft. (Add more water from time to time, if 
necessary.) Press through a sieve; adding enough stock or water to 
make a soup of the consistency of cream. Put it again into a saucepan 
on the fire ; season, and add one tablespoon of butter or drippings and 
one table-spoon of flour rubbed together until smooth. 

An onion may be boiled with the peas or beans if desired. 
Serve croutons with the soup. (Croutons are small pieces of bread 
fried in butter or drippings.) 

BAKED BEAN SOUP. 

3 cups cold baked beans 2 tablespoons butter or drip- 

3 pints water pings 

2 slices onion 2 tablespoons flour 

1 J^ cups stewed and strained toma- Salt 
toes or canned tomato pulp Pepper 

Put beans, water, and onion in saucepan ; bring to boiling point and 
simmer thirty minutes. Rub through a sieve, add tomato, season to 
taste with salt and pepper, and mix with the butter or drippings and 
flour cooked together. Serve with crisp crackers. 

LENTIL SOUP. To the contents of a can of lentils add some 
broth or water, chopped parsley and onions, brown sauce or butter or 
drippings and flour. Also, if desired, a few pieces of Frankfurt 
sausage. Boil five minutes and serve. 

CREAM OF LENTIL SOUP. Two cups of canned lentils, eight 
cups water, three tablespoons chopped onions, two tablespoons butter 
or drippings, two tablespoons flour, two cups milk. Cook the 
onions ten minutes, add to the lentils and press through a sieve. Melt 
butter or drippings, add flour and milk and cook five minutes. 
Combine the mixtures, season to taste and serve with small pieces of 
bread fried in butter or drippings. 

MACARONI, SPAGHETTI and NOODLES 

BAKED MACARONI. 

^4 pound of macaroni ^ cup of milk 

%. pound of grated cheese 1 tablespoon of butter or butter 

substitute 
Salt and pepper 
Break the macaroni in convenient lengths, put it in a two-quart 
kettle and nearly fill the kettle with boiling water; add a teaspoon of salt 

23 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

and boil rapidly twenty-five minutes (the rapid boiling- prevents the 
macaroni from sticking together) ; drain in a colander, then throw into 
cold water to blanch for ten minutes ; then drain again in the colander. 
Put a layer of macaroni in the bottom of a baking-dish, then a layer of 
cheese, then a sprinkling of salt and pepper, then another layer of mac- 
aroni, and so continue until all is used, having the last layer macaroni. 
Cut the butter or butter substitute in small bits ; distribute them evenly 
over the top ; add the milk and bake until a golden brown (about twenty 
minutes) in a moderately quick oven. Serve in the dish in which it was 
baked. 

MACARONI BAKED WITH TOMATOES. Arrange in a baking- 
dish layers of cooked macaroni, stewed and seasoned tomato or canned 
tomato pulp, and chopped green pepper. Dot each layer with butter 
or butter substitute. Cover all with cracker crumbs. Bake in hot oven. 

ITALIAN MACARONI. 

J4 pound of macaroni ^ pint of milk 

^4 pound of grated cheese 1 tablespoon of butter or drippings 

Salt and white pepper to taste 

Break the macaroni in convenient lengths. Put in a two-quart kettle 
and nearly fill the kettle with boiling water ; add a teaspoonful of salt 
and boil rapidly twenty-five minutes ; then drain. Put the milk into a 
double boiler ; add to it the butter or drippings, then the macaroni and 
cheese ; stir until thoroughly heated, add the salt and pepper, and serve. 

MACARONI WITH BROWN SAUCE. 

li pound of macaroni 2 tablespoons of cheese 

1 quart of stock or water Salt and pepper to taste 

Break the macaroni in pieces two inches long. Put the stock or 
water on to boil. When boiling, add the macaroni and boil rapidly for 
thirty minutes. When done, put it in a colander to drain, saving the 
liquid. Put one tablespoon of butter or drippings in a frying-pan ; add 
one tablespoon of flour, mix until smooth ; then add a half-pint of the 
stock or water in which macaroni was boiled and stir continually until 
it boils; add the cheese, then the macaroni, and let it boil up once. 
Season to taste, and serve. 

BOILED MACARONI WITH CHEESE. Put the macaroni into 
salted boiling water, and cook it twelve to fifteen minutes, or until it is 
tender. When it is cooked, drain ofif all the water and cover the hot 
macaroni with grated cheese. With two forks mix lightly the cheese 
with the macaroni. Turn it into the hot serving-dish, and pour over it 
the sauce given below. Serve at once. 

SAUCE FOR MACARONI. Put into a saucepan one and a half 
tablespoons of butter or drippings. Add a small onion chopped fine. 
Cook until all are browned; then add three tablespoons of the water 
in which the macaroni was boiled and a teaspoonful of beef extract. 
Add, also, three or four soaked mushrooms and let it simmer for five 
minutes. 

This amount of sauce is enough for a pound of macaroni. 

24 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

The mushrooms given in this recipe are the dried cepes, which can 
be bought by the pound at ItaHan groceries. They are the best, after the 
fresh mushrooms, to use for sauces. They should not be cooked longer 
than five minutes to give their best flavor. 

The beef extract and the mushrooms can both be left out, if desired. 

MACARONI OR SPAGHETTI WITH TOMATO SAUCE. Boil 
macaroni or spaghetti in water for thirty minutes ; drain off the water 
and serve the macaroni with tomato sauce and cheese. 

MACARONI CROQUETTES. 

6 ounces of macaroni 5^2 pint of milk 

1 tablespoon of butter or drip- 2 tablespoons of flour 
pings Salt and pepper to taste 

2 tablespoons of grated cheese 

Break the macaroni in pieces about two inches long. Put it in a 
kettle nearly full of boiling water, and boil rapidly twenty-five minutes. 
When done, put it in a colander to drain ; then cut it in pieces a half- 
inch long. Scald the milk. Rub the butter or drippings and flour to- 
gether until smooth ; stir into the milk when boiling, and stir continually 
until it thickens ; then add the cheese and macaroni, salt and pepper, 
cook one minute longer ; then turn out on a plate to cool. When cold, 
form into croquettes ; roll first in egg and then in bread crumbs, and 
fry in deep hot fat. Serve with cream §auce. 

MACARONI TIMBALE. 

6 ounces of left-over meat or 1 teaspoon of tomato catsup 

vegetables 2 ounces of macaroni boiled and 
4 tablespoons of bread crumbs cut in pieces one inch long 

1 tablespoon of stock or gravy 

Mix the crumbs and meat or vegetables well together ; then add the 
stock or gravy, seasoning and catsup. Grease a plain pudding mould, 
and line it with the boiled macaroni ; fill with the mixture, and press in 
compactly. Put the lid on the mould and fasten it. Then stand the 
mould in a kettle, with sufificient boiling water to cover it about two- 
thirds. Now put the lid on the kettle, and boil for one hour. When 
done, turn it from the mould, pour cream sauce around it, and serve. 

NOODLES. Throw a few noodles at a time into boiling, salted 
water; boil them until they are done, separating them carefully with a 
fork to prevent their matting together. Skim them out when done, 
and keep them on a warm dish in a warm oven until enough are cooked. 
Season with butter. Put them in the dish in which they are to be served, 
and sprinkle over them bread crumbs browned in hot drippings to a 
golden color. This dish may be served with fish, with meat, or as a 
course by itself. Noodles may also be cooked like macaroni, with 
cheese. 

25 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 



CHEESE 



CHEESE RELISH. 

1 cup bread broken in small 

pieces 
^ cup cheese 
1 teaspoon salt 
% teaspoon pepper 
Mix ingredients well, place in greased baking-dish and bake 25 
minutes. 



1 cup milk 

1 pcrcr 

1 tablespoon butter or drip- 
pings 



CHEESE FONDUE. 

1 cup scalded milk 
1 cup stale bread crumbs 
34 lb. mild cheese (in small 
pieces) 



1 tablespoon butter or butter 

substitute 
J'j teaspoon salt 
3 eq-gs 



Mix first five ingredients ; add yolks of eggs beaten until stiflF. Fold 
in whites of eggs beaten until stifif. Pour into greased baking-dish and 
bake twenty minutes in moderate oven. 

CREAM TOAST WITH CHEESE. Make toast; make white 
sauce. To white sauce, just before taking from the fire, add }i cup 
of grated cheese. When this is melted, pour over the toast. 

CEREALS 

OATMEAL MUFFINS. (See page 94.) 

RAISED OATMEAL MUFFINS. 

^ cup scalded milk ^•^ yeast cake dissolved in 

% cup sugar 



i'2 teaspoon salt 



34 cup lukewarm milk 
1 cup cold cooked oatmeal 
23^2 cups flour 

Add sugar and salt to scalded milk; when lukewarm, add dissolved 
yeast cake. Work oatmeal into flour with tips of fingers, and add to 
first mixture; beat thoroughly, cover, and let rise overnight. In morn- 
ing, fill greased iron gem pans two-thirds full, let rise on back of 
range that pan may gradually heat and mixture rise to fill pan. Bake 
in moderate oven twenty-five to thirty minutes. 

RAISED HOMINY MUFFINS. 

1 cup warm cooked hominy 

2 tablespoons butter or any fat 
1 cup scalded milk 

3 tablespoons sugar 

Mix first five ingredients ; when lukewarm add yeast cake, dis- 
solved in lukewarm water, and flour. Cover, and let rise overnight. 
In the morning, fill hot greased gem pans two-thirds full, let rise one 
hour, and bake in a moderate oven. Unless cooked hominy is rather 
stifif, more flour will be needed. 

26 



3^2 teaspoon salt 

34 yeast cake 

34 eup lukewarm water 

334 cups flour 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

POLENTA. 

2 cups boiling water 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup yellow corn-meal 2 tablespoons of butter 

2 cups cold water 4 tablespoons grated cheese 
Mix the corn-flour with the cold water and stir into the boiling 

water, to which the salt has been added ; stir constantly until the mix- 
ture boils ; then occasional!}- for at least an hour. AMien about half 
cooked add the butter and the cheese. 

Serve hot; or, when cold, cut in squares and fry. 

SAVORY RICE. 

2 tablespoons butter or 3 tablespoons grated cheese 

drippings 1 chopped hard-boiled egg 

tablespoons boiled rice ]\Iilk 
4 tablespoons chopped cooked carrots 

Melt the butter or drippings and add the rice, carrots, cheese and 
egg. Moisten with milk and season well. Heap on a dish and brown 
in the oven. (The hard-boiled egg can be left out, if not wanted.) In 
food value this dish takes the place of both meat and potatoes. 

RICE BALLS WITH CHEESE AND TOMATO SAUCE. Make 
balls of cooked rice and dip them in grated cheese. Bake in a hot oven 
until cheese is brown. Serve with tomato sauce. 

CHEESED RICE. 

1 can tomatoes or canned y^ lb. cheese 
tomato pulp Salt 

1 cup cooked rice Paprika 

Spread in a baking-dish in layers with cheese on top. Bake in 
moderate oven until cheese is brown. 

RICE WITH CHEESE. 

2 cups cooked rice % cup grated cheese 
2 tablespoons butter or Few grains pepper 

drippings Milk 

3/2 teaspoon salt 

Arrange rice and cheese in alternate layers in buttered baking-dish, 
add remaining ingredients, adding sufficient milk to moisten. Cover 
with bread crumbs. Bake until crumbs are brown. In food value this 
dish will take the place of both meat and potatoes. 

RICE WITH TOMATOES. AVash and drain one-half cup rice, 
cook in one tablespoon butter or dripping until brown, add one cup 
boiling water, and steam until water is absorbed. Add one and 
three-fourths cups hot stewed tomatoes or canned tomato pulp, cook 
until rice is soft, and season with salt and pepper. 

RICE AND CHEESE CROQUETTES. 

1 cup rice Salt and pepper 

4 cups milk 1 egg 

1 cup cheese 1 cup thick white sauce 

27 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

Cook rice in milk; when milk is absorbed add cheese, seasoning 
and egg and enough sauce to make of the consistency to shape. Shape, 
dip in crumbs, then egg and crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 

BAKED RICE AND CHEESE. 

3 cups boiled rice 1 cup milk 

j4 pound cheese 3^ teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour 
Make sauce by thickening milk with flour. Add cheese, stirring 
until it is melted. Arrange layers of rice and sauce in baking-dish, 
cover with crumbs and bake until brown. In food value this dish takes 
the place of both meat and potatoes. 

RICE MUFFINS. 

2j^ cups flour 1 egg 

94 cup hot cooked rice 2 tablespoons melted butter or 

5 teaspoons baking-powder any fat 

2 tablespoons sugar j^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 

Mix and sift flour, sugar, salt and baking-powder; add one-half milk, 
egg well beaten, the remainder of the milk mixed with rice, and beat 
thoroughly ; then add butter or fat. Bake in greased muffin rings placed 
in greased pan or bake in greased gem pans. 

PEAS 

PEA TIMBALES. Drain and rinse one can peas, and rub through 
a sieve. To one cup pea pulp add two beaten eggs, two tablespoons 
melted butter or drippings, two-thirds teaspoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon 
pepper, few grains cayenne, and a few drops onion juice. Turn into 
greased moulds, set in pan of hot water, cover with greased paper, and 
bake until firm. Serve with one cup white sauce to which is added 
one-third cup canned peas drained, rinsed and cooked slowly for fifteen 
minutes. 

CREAMED PEAS. 

2 cups of boiled peas ^ cup white sauce 

Cook the peas ; add them to the white sauce and then cook gently 
for about two minutes. If left-over peas are used, heat slightly before 
adding to the white sauce. 

SPRING SALAD. 

Cold cooked green peas Cold boiled potatoes 

Cut potatoes into dice. ]Mix peas and potatoes together with may= 
onnaise dressing, then serve on lettuce leaves. 

BEANS 

BAKED BEANS. Soak beans overnight in cold water. In the 
morning drain off the water and cover with fresh water. Cook beans 
gently until skins begin to break. Place a layer of beans in a bean 
pot or deep earthen dish and on this layer in the center of the dish place 
a piece of salt pork (streak of fat and streak of lean), have rind side up. 

28 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

For each quart of beans use one-half pound pork ; score the rind. Fill 
dish with beans, add seasoning and water to cover. (One tablespoon 
salt and one-half teaspoon pepper to one quart beans.) Mix seasoning 
with the water. One tablespoon mustard may be added ; also one-half 
tablespoon molasses and one onion. Instead of pork, a piece of salt or 
fat beef or mutton may be used, or the fat trimmed from a cooked piece 
of corned beef. In this case use one and one-half to two pounds meat 
to one quart of beans. If fresh meat is used, add more salt. If all meat 
is used, one teaspoon salt is sufficient. When mutton is used, trim off 
every particle of skin. Bake the beans in a very moderate oven eight to 
ten hours. Add a little boiling water from time to time, but never 
enough to bring the water above the beans. Do not cover beans while 
baking. 

BEAN POLENTA. 

1 pint of small white beans 1 tablespoon of butter or drip- 

1^ tablespoons of molasses pings 

Yi. teaspoon mustard 1 tablespoon of vinegar 

Salt and pepper to taste 
Wash the beans and soak them overnight in cold water. In 
the morning, drain ofif this water, cover with fresh, cold water, bring 
slowly to a boil, and boil slowly one hour; drain again, cover with one 
quart of fresh boiling water, and boil slowly another hour. When done, 
press through a colander, return to the kettle, add the butter or drip- 
pings, molasses, mustard, salt, pepper and vinegar ; stir, and boil ten 
minutes. 

BEAN CROQUETTES. 

1 pint of white beans 1 tablespoon of butter or drip- 

1 tablespoon of vinegar pings 

1 tablespoon of molasses Salt and pepper to taste 

Boil the beans as directed in preceding recipe. When done, drain 
and press the beans through a colander, then add the other ingredients, 
mix well and stand away to cool. When cold, form into small balls, dip 
first in Q^^ and then in bread crumbs, and fry in deep hot fat. 

PUREE OF BEANS. See Puree of Dried Beans, page 57. 

BOSTON ROAST. 

1-pound can kidney beans, or ^ pound grated cheese 
same quantitv cooked beans. Bread crumbs 

Salt 
Mash beans or put through a meat grinder. Add cheese and enough 
bread crumbs to make a stiff roll. Bake in a moderate oven, basting 
occasionally with butter and water. Serve with tomato sauce. The dish 
may be flavored with onions chopped and cooked in drippings. 

KIDNEY BEANS WITH BROWN SAUCE. Put one table- 
spoon of butter or dripping in a saucepan and brown until dark, 
but do not burn it. Add one tablespoon flour; stir and brown again. 
Add cup good stock (beef is best) ; season with salt and pepper. 

29 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

Cook one pint fresh shelled beans in salted water until tender. Add 
the sauce, and cook one minute longer. 

-LENTILS 

BAKED LENTILS. 

1 quart lentils Yz teaspoon pepper 

1 quart water 6 ounces salt pork 

1 teaspoon salt 1 small onion 

Pick over and wash lentils. Soak in water overnight. In morning, 
pour water off. Put lentils in stew-pan with two quarts cold water and 
heat slowly. As water boils, the lentils will rise to the top. Remove 
them with a skimmer and place in a deep earthen dish with pork and 
onion in the center. Mix salt and pepper with one quart boiling water 
and add. Cook slowly in moderate oven four to five hours, adding a 
little water from time to time. If pork is not very salt, more salt should 
be added. 

STEWED LENTILS are prepared in the same way, but using 
more water. Instead of pork, fat corned beef or the shank of a ham 
may be used. 

CURRIED LENTILS. 

1 cup lentils 3 tablespoons butter or drip- 

1 pint vegetable stock or water pings 

I teaspoon salt 2 onions 

1 tablespoon curry-powder 

Wash the lentils and soak them. Drain and cook in the stock or 
water one hour. When done they should be a dry mass. Melt the 
butter or drippings, add sliced onions and curry powder. Fry until 
the onions are brown. Add lentils. Season and heat. Serve with 
boiled rice. 

LENTILS AND RICE. Boil the lentils as directed in the pre- 
ceding recipe. Wash and boil one cup of rice. Put two tablespoons 
of butter or drippings in a frying-pan ; when melted add one onion cut 
in slices, then the lentils and rice, and stir over the fire fifteen minutes; 
add salt and pepper to taste and serve. 

LENTIL CROQUETTES. Thoroughly soak one cup of lentils 
and one-half cup beans. Drain and add two cups of water, half 
an onion, a stalk of celery or one-half teaspoon celery salt, one small 
carrot sliced and three sprigs of parsley. Cook until a pulp, strain 
through a sieve and add one cup grated bread crumbs, one beaten ^%%, 
pepper and salt to taste. Make a sauce by creaming two tablespoons 
of butter and pouring on gradually two-thirds of a cup of milk. Bring 
to the boiling point and add lentil mixture. Mix thoroughly. When 
cool form in balls, dip in ^^^ and crumbs and fry in deep hot fat. 

LENTILS AND RICE CROQUETTES. Rub one cup of canned 
lentils through a colander. Mix with one cup of cooked rice, one-half 
cup of milk, one beaten ^^^, sage and salt to taste. Form into cro- 
quettes, roll in beaten ^g^ and then in bread crumbs. Spread a little 
milk on top and bake to a nice brown. 

30 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

LOUISIANA LENTILS. 

1 cup lentils 2 tablespoons butter or drip- 

1 onion pings 

2 cups tomatoes or canned to- 3 red peppers 

mato pulp 
Soak the lentils about eight hours. Drain, cover with fresh water 
and cook very slowly for half hour. Bring to boiling point, drain, cover 
with hot water and simmer until they become tender ; melt the butter or 
drippings in a baking-dish. Add the onion and red peppers chopped fine. 
Stir and cook until the butter or drippings is browned. Put in the 
tomatoes and salt and pepper to taste. Drain the lentils and add them. 
Cook uncovered for thirty minutes. 

LENTIL PANCAKES. Mash two cups of canned lentils, and 
press through a sieve. Season with salt, pepper and drippings, cool, and 
add two eggs beaten with a cup of milk. Add a cup of flour sifted 
with half a teaspoon baking-powder, mix thoroughly, and fry on greased 
griddle. 

NUTS 

NUT LOAF. 

2 cups soft bread crumbs 1 egg 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon Kitchen Bouquet 

2 cups chopped nuts ^ teaspoon pepper 

5^ teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon butter or drippings 

Soak the crumbs in milk until soft, add remaining ingredients. 
Pour into bread-pan, baste with water or drippings, and bake one hour. 
Serve hot or cold with tomato sauce. 

NUT AND CHEESE ROAST. 

1 cup grated cheese 1 tablespoon butter or drip- 

1 cup bread crumbs pings 

Juice Yz lemon 2 tablespoons onion 

1 cup chopped nuts Salt 

Pepper 

Cook chopped onion in the butter or drippings and a little water 
until tender. Mix other ingredients, moisten with water, using that in 
which onion was cooked. Pour into a shallow baking-dish and brown 
in the oven. 

NUT SCRAPPLE. 

2 quarts boiling water 1 cup hominy 

2 cups corn meal 1 tablespoon salt 

2 cups nut meats 
Cook the corn-meal and hominy together in the boiling water in a 
double boiler. When it has been cooking 20 minutes, add the salt, and 
cook until the corn-meal and hominy have taken up all the water. 
Add chopped nuts and pour in a greased dish. Keep in a cold place. 
Cut in slices and fry. Serve with or without syrup. 

NUT AND CELERY SALAD. Mix equal parts of nut meats cut 
in pieces and celery cut in small pieces. Mix with French dressing. 
Serve with lettuce. 

31 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

NUT MUFFINS (Without Eggs). 

2 cups flour 1 cup milk (scant) 

% cup sugar K cup nut meat 

4 teaspoons baking-powder Yi teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter or butter substitute 
Mix and sift dry ingredients; work in butter or butter substitute 

with tips of fingers ; add milk and nuts. Bake in muffin-pans for twenty 

to twenty-five minutes. 

BANANAS 

MOULDED CEREAL WITH BANANA. Turn any left-over 
breakfast cereal, while still hot, into cups rinsed in cold water, half 
filling the cups. When cold, scoop out the centers, and fill the open 
spaces with sliced bananas ; turn from the cups on to a buttered agate 
pan, fruit downward, and set into a hot oven to become very hot. 
Remove with a broad bladed knife to cereal dishes. Serve at once "with 
sugar and milk. 

BAKED BANANAS. Arrange bananas in a shallow pan. cover, 
and bake until skins become very dark in color. Remove from skins, 
and serve hot sprinkled with sugar. 

BANANA FRITTERS. Remove skins from four bananas. Cut 
each one in four equal parts. Sprinkle with four tablespoons sugar, four 
tablespoons lemon juice, and let stand one hour. Dip in batter; fry in 
deep fat ; drain on brown paper. Serve. 

BANANA FRIED IN CRUMBS. Remove skin from six bana- 
nas, cut in halves lengthwise and crosswise. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper and lemon juice, dip in flour, ^^^ and crumbs, and fry in deep 
fat. Drain on brown paper. Serve with or without lemon sauce. 

BANANA SANDWICH. Slice the bananas and lay between slices 
of buttered bread. Salt lightly. 

BANANA AND NUT SALAD. Cut bananas in half lengthwise ; 
sprinkle with finely chopped nuts and serve on lettuce with mayonnaise 
dressing. 

POTATOES 

POTATOES AU GRATIN. 

6 cold boiled potatoes 3 tablespoons of flour 

2 cups of milk 4 heaping tablespoons grated 

2 tablespoons of butter or butter cheese 

substitute Salt and pepper to taste i 

Put the butter or butter substitute in a frying-pan to melt ; when j 
melted, add the flour, mix until smooth; then add the milk, and stir 
continually until it boils. Take from the fire, add the cheese, salt, and 
pepper. Put a layer of this sauce in the bottom of a baking-dish, then 
a layer of the cold potatoes, sliced, and so on, having the last layer 
sauce; sprinkle bread crumbs over the top, and put it in a quick oven 
ten minutes, to brown. Serve in the dish in which it was baked. 

32 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

POTATO CROQUETTES. To two cups of well-seasoned 
Hashed potatoes add the beaten yolks of two eggs, a tablespoon of 
:hopped parsley, one and a half tablespoons of butter or butter substi- 
;ute (if none has been used in seasoning), a dash of cayenne and nut- 
neg; stir over the fire until the potato leaves the sides of the pan. When 
:old, form it into small croquettes, roll them in egg and bread crumbs 
md fr}^ them in hot deep fat to an amber color. 

GERMAN POTATO SALAD (Six Persons). 

10 medium potatoes 4 tablespoons good olive oil 

1 onion 5 tablespoons of vinegar 

1 teaspoon of salt Chopped parsley 

y^ teaspoon of pepper 1 yolk of &^% 

Roil and peel the potatoes and slice them while still hot. Spread 
)ver the potatoes the ©nion, sliced. fine, and then sprinkle on the salt and 
)epper. In a bowl mix the yolk of egg, the oil and vinegar, and then 
)our it over the potatoes. 

Now pour over all three-quarters of a teacup of boiling w'ater. 
Phis is the great point in order not to have the salad have the common 
ault of being too dry. After thoroughly mixing, cover the salad, and 
et it stand for a few hours. Garnish with parsley. 

POTATO AND NUT SALAD. I\Tix two cups cold boiled sliced 
)otatoes and one cup nut meats broken in pieces. Mix with French 
Iressing, and arrange on a bed of watercress or lettuce. 

POTATO AND EGG SALAD. Hard boil three eggs thirty min- 
ites, shell and cut fine with a silver knife. Roil three or four potatoes. 
3ice while hot, mix with cut eggs and add French dressing. Let stand 
:ill cold. Serve on bed of watercress or lettuce with more French dress- 
ng or boiled dressing thinned with vinegar. 

CABBAGE 

CABBAGE WITH CHEESE (Very Good). Roil the cabbage as 
directed on page 51. Press out all the water and chop it. Make a white 
5auce of one tablespoon each of butter and flour, one cup of milk, 
3ne-half teaspoon of salt and a dash of cayenne. Spread a layer of 
:abbage on the bottom of a pudding-dish; cover it with white sauce; 
then add a layer of grated cheese. Make a second layer of cabbage, 
sauce and cheese ; cover the top with a layer of crumbs, and place it in 
the oven, ^^'hen the sauce bubbles through the crumbs it is done. Serve 
in same dish. 

STUFFED CABBAGE. For this select a nice head of Savoy 
:abbage. Pour over it boiling water, let stand fifteen minutes, drain, 
;cald again and let stand thirty minutes. Drain and shake until dry. 
Make the.stufBng as follows: Wash two heaping tablespoons of rice 
in cold water, then mix it with a half-pound of sausage meat, add a 
tablespoon of onion and a tablespoon of chopped parsley; mix all 
well together. Open the cabbage carefully to the very center; put in 
a half-teaspoon of the mixture, fold over two or three of the little 
leaves; now cover these with a layer of the mixture, fold over this the 

33 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

next layer of leaves, and so on until each layer is stuffed. Press all 
firmly together, tie in a piece of cheese-cloth, put it into a kettle of 
salted boiling water, and boil two hours. When done, carefully remove 
the cloth, stand the cabbage in a deep round dish, pour over it cream 
sauce, and serve very hot. 

CABBAGE ROLLS. 

One head cabbage 
Stuffing made from : 
1 cu]i l)()iled rice 1 small onion grated 

yi pound chopped raw meat Enough milk to moisten 

Salt and pepper to taste 
Separate the leaves of the cabbage. Wash them and boil them in 
water for about ten minutes. Then drain oft' the water. 

Mix the stuffing in the order given. Take one tablespoon of the 
stuffing and roll it in each cabbage leaf and tie securely, forming rolls. 
Brown the cabbage rolls in hot drippings in a pot and then add a little 
water and cook slowly for about an hour ; then take out the cabbage 
rolls. To the drippings in the pan add two level tablespoons flour and 
stir until it browns. Then add about one cup of boiling water and 
one-half teaspoon kitchen bouquet, and pour this sauce over the cab- 
l;age rolls. 

TOMATOES 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

1 cup cooked cereal 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

J/j teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons melted Imtter or 

A little pepper drippings 

1 teas])oon onion juice 

Remove the inside of the tomato; lill with the dressing, and brown 
in the oven. 

CURRIED TOMATOES. 

1 qt. stewed tomatoes or 1 cup boiled rice 

1 qt.-can of tomatoes or canned 1 teaspoon curry-powder 
tomato pulp Salt to taste 

A\'ash the rice through sexeral cold waters. Add the curry-powder 
and salt to the tomatoes; mix well. Put a la}-er of the tomatoes in the 
bottom of a l:)aking-dish, then a layer of the rice, then a layer of toma- 
toes, and so on until all is used, ha\ing the last layer tomatoes; sprinkle 
the toi^ o\'er with bread crumbs, place a few bits of butter here and 
there i^ver the crumbs, and bake in a moderate oven for a half-hour. 
Serve in the dish in which it was baked. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. See Scalloped Tomatoes, page 65. 

CORN 

CORN PUDDING 

4 cups c<irn 3 eggs 

2 cups milk ,■ I2 cup butter or butter substi- 
Salt .,. "■ ' tnte 

Pejiper 

34 



Vii. 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

Beat yolks ; add corn, milk, butter or butter substitute, salt and 
pepper. Pour into a greased baking--dish ; add beaten whites and bake 
in moderate oven one hour. 

CORN, TOMATO AND CHEESE. 

6 tablespoons of drippings 1 clove garlic 

34 cup canned or fresh grated 2 cups grated cheese 

corn 1 teaspoon salt 

Yz cup tomato puree or canned Yi teaspoon paprika 

tomato pulp 4 slices bread 

Melt drippings ; add cheese, and stir until it melts. Add corn ; stir 
for a moment, then add tomato, salt and paprika. Toast bread on one 
side, rub lightly on the other with garlic cut in half. Pour mixture 
over untoasted side and serve at once. A poached ^'gg is sometimes 
placed on top of each portion, making a very nutritious combination, 

CORN FRITTERS. 

1 cup canned or fresh grated >< cup of milk 

corn Y^ cup of flour 

1 ^g^ Y^ teaspoon of salt 

1 teaspoon baking-powder 2 dashes of black pepper 

To the corn add the milk, the yolk of the ^gg, salt, pepper and 
flour; beat well. Beat the white of the ^%% to a stiff froth, and stir it 
and the baking-powder carefully into the mixture. Put lard or drip- 
pings into a saucepan ; when hot, drop the mixture by spoonfuls into 
the deep fat. When brown on one side, turn and brown the other. 
I'ake out with a skimmer (do not pierce them with a fork, as it makes 
them heavy), drain on brown paper, and serve very hot. 

PEPPERS 

STUFFED PEPPERS. Use green sweet peppers of uniform size. 
Cut a piece off the stem end, or cut them in two lengthwise, and remove 
the seeds and partitions. Put them in boiling Avater for five minutes 
to parboil. Fill each one with a stuffing made of equal parts of softened 
bread crumbs and minced meat (any left-over meat) well seasoned with 
salt, butter, or drippings, and a few drops of onion juice. Place them irt 
a baking-dish with water or stock half an inch deep, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven for half an hour. Serve them in the same dish or remove 
them carefully to another dish. Any left-over vegetable can be used in 
place of meat. 

VEGETABLE HASH. See Vegetable Hash, page 66. 

FISH 

FISH IS A MOST EXCELLENT AND APPETIZING SUB- 
STITUTE FOR MEAT. FOR RECIPES, ETC., SEE PAGES 36 
TO 48 OF THIS BOOK. 

35 



FISH 

People have got more or less into the habit of eating fish on Fridays 
onlv. Fish are just as appetizing and nourishing on Tuesdays and 
Thursdays as on Fridays, and if you and your neighbors will buy fish 
any day m the week you will get cheaper fish and better fish. Hundreds 
of car-loads of fish are sent from New York to other cities because the 
people living here do not appreciate the value of fish as a food and do 
not buy it as often as they should. 

Every day is fish day. 

Vary your diet as much as you can. You will be more healthy if 
you do. 

Don't use meat so much. Use fish mcM-e. 

Fish is just as nourishing as lean meat, and if eaten with bread, 
potatoes, etc., will supply all the needs of the body. 

When you buy fish, see that you get the trimmings. You are just 
as much entitled to them as you are to the trimmings of your meat. 

The meat part of almost any fish may be cooked separately. If you 
ask your fish dealer to remove the meat part of the fish for you, the 
trimmings will consist of the head, the skeleton and the fins, and these 
can be used for fish stock, out of which can be made excellent fish soups 
and fish sauces. 

Halibut costs from 25 cents to 30 cents a pound. Market cod. Tile 
fish, Hake and Pollock cost about 15 cents less a pound and can be 
cooked in the same way as Halibut. They can be cut up into steaks ; 
they can be boiled ; the tail can be split and broiled in the same way that 
you would broil Mackerel or Bluefish, and they cost about 15 cents less 
a pound than either Mackerel or Bluefish. 

Scrod can be obtained the year around at about 10 cents a pound. 
(Scrod is a young cod split down the back and the backbone removed, 
except a small portion near the tail.) 

Haddock costs about 10 cents less a pound than Halibut and can be 
cooked in the saine way. Cod, Tile fish and Haddock are in season all 
the year and, if properly cooked, are extremely appetizing. 

When you buy Bluefish, get a large-size fish. If you buy a large 
one you will have enough left over for another meal. Any fish left over 
can be used to make fish cakes, or it can be creamed and put in a dish 
and baked. 

Many people go to a fish store and buy the filets of a fish instead of 
buying the whole fish. A filet of fish is nothing more or less than the 
meat of the fish stripped from the skeleton. Some fish dealers have 
these filets all ready on a platter for sale, but if you buy them that way 
you will pay about 15 cents more a pound for them than if you bought 
the entire fish and asked your fish dealer to strip the fish ofif for you and 
give you the trimmings. 

You will find on the next page a list of the fish that can be bought in 
New York at dififerent seasons of the year ; also directions as to how to 
Gook them, how to make various fish stews, fish chowders, fish pud- 
dings, etc. 

IT WILL PAY YOU TO TRY THESE RECIPES 

AND BUY FISH OFTEN 

36 



FISH RECIPES 

HOW TO TELL WHEN FISH IS FRESH. In fresh fish the eyes 
are bright, the gills red, and the flesh firm and odorless. 

Put fish in water, and if it sinks you will know it is fresh. If it 
floats, it is a sign that it is not fresh, and it should not be used. Serious 
illness is apt to follow the eating of fish that is not fresh. 

CLEANING FISH. Be sure that the fish is thoroughly cleaned 
before cooking it. It should be cleaned as soon as it is bought. 

FISH IN SEASON. When buying fish, buy the variety that is 
most plentiful at the time. Do not try to buy a variety that is scarce or 
out of season. 

Cod, Scrod, Haddock, Tile fish and Halibut can be obtained prac- 
tically all the year. (Scrod is a young cod split down the back and the 
backbone removed, except a small portion near the tail.) From about 
the middle of April to the 1st of November the fish in season are Weak 
fish. Butter fish, Porgies, Sea Bass, Fluke, Flounder, Whiting, Mackerel, 
Shad, Salmon and Bluefish. Nearly all of these are very abundant in 
the spring of the year. Bluefish have been very scarce of late and are 
practically out of the market. 

During the winter the fish in season are Spanish Mackerel, Red 
Snapper, Sea Trout, small Bluefish and Smelts. 

FROZEN FISH. At stated periods during the year, when certain 
fish are very plentiful, they are caught in such large numbers that it is 
impossible to dispose of all of them immediately because of the com- 
paratively small demand for fish on the part of our housewives. This 
surplus fish is sent to cold storage in order that it may be preserved and 
eaten when the same variety of fish cannot be freshly caught. In this 
way 3'ou usually can get, at any time of the year, any kind of fish you 
particularly like. 

Fish that has been properly frozen and kept in cold storage is just 
as good as fresh fish; it is just as palatable, just as nutritious. Many 
housewi\'es do not know this, and as a result they alwa3'S insist upon 
Inlying fresh fish. Unscrupulous dealers frequently take advantage of 
the housewives' demand for fresh fish and thaw out frozen fish and sell 
it as fresh fish. As frozen fish costs about one-third less than fresh 
fish, the housewife pays just that much more than she should for the 
fish that is sold her in this way. 

Ask your dealer if he keeps frozen fish (cold-storage fish). Tell 
him you want to make a practice of buying frozen fish in place of fresh 
fish. See that he sells it to you for one-third less than the price of 
fresh fish. 

Frozen fish spoils quickly if it is kept for hours after being thawed 
out. This is why you should not buy fish that has been thawed out by 
your dealer. You should buy it while it is still in its frozen state, and 
take it home and thaw it out yourself. It is a very simple matter to 
thaw it out : just la}- the fish in cold water and the ice will gradually melt. 

Z7 



FISM RECIPES 

The fish should be cooked as soon as it is thawed out. Frozen fish is 
cooked in exactly the same way as fresh fish, and not only tastes just 
as good but is just as nourishiiiL;'. 

IN THESE DAYS EVERY PENNY COUNTS. 
Here is one way in which you can save one-third of the money you 
usually spend for fish. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR COOKING FISH 

BOILED FISH. Small fish, such as small Cod and Haddock, 
should be cooked whole in enough boiling water to cover, to which is 
added salt, lemon juice or vinegar. Sew the fish in a piece of muslin to 
keep it from breaking to pieces. Large fish should be cut in thick pieces. 

BROILED FISH. Small Cod. Haddock and Mackerel should be 
split down the back and broiled whole. Salmon and Halibut should 
be cut in slices for broiling. Smelts and other small fish should be 
broiled whole without splitting. 

BAKED FISH. Rake on a greased fish sheet, or if you have not a 
fish sheet, two strips of muslin placed under the fish will answer the 
purpose. This will enable you to lift the fish from the pan when leaked 
without breaking it. 

FRIED FISH. Wive the fish dry, sprinkle with salt, then dip in 
flour ov crumbs, then dip in egg. and again in flour or crumbs, and fry 
in deep fat. 

PANNED FISH. This method of cooking is suitable for any small 
fish or such as can be cut in slices. Have the fish well cleaned, seasoned 
with pepper and salt and dried with a little flour, or, better still, very 
fine bread crumbs. Have a large frying-pan smoking hot with as little 
grease in it as will keep the fish from sticking. Drippings from good, 
sweet salt pork is the best, but any sweet dripping will do. When the 
fat begins to smoke blue lay in the fish and brown quickly on both sides, 
then cover closely and set back to cook more slowly, from ten to twenty 
minutes, according to the size of the fish. Bass in all its varieties is 
suitable to cook in this way; so are Butterfish. Cisco (Lake Herring), 
Herring, Perch, Porgies. Trout, ^^"eakfish, etc. 

SAUTE FISH. Prepare your fish as for frying and cook in frying- 
pan with small amount of fat. Cod steaks and Smelts should be cooked 
in this way. 

SALT FISH, Very salt fish should be soaked several hours in 
three or four changes of warm water. Place the skin side up, so that 
salt crystals may fall away from the under or meat side. \Mpe care- 
fully and clean, then soak for an hour in very cold water. 

BAKED FISH 

STUFFING FOR BAKED FISH. Put a large tablespoon of 
butter or drippings into a saucepan. A\'hen melted stir into it 1 cup 
of cracker or dry bread crumbs. 1 teaspoon of chopped onion, 1 tea- 

38 



FISH RECIPES 

spoon chopped capers, J4 teaspoon salt. I4 teaspoon pepper. 1 teaspoon 
chopped j)arsley. If a moist stuffing is preferred, add onc-cpiarter cup 
3f milk, stock or water. 

BREAD STUFFING (for baked fish). 1m y a tablespoon ot 
'hopped onion in a tablespoon of butter or drippings. Add a cup 
)r more of stale bread, which has been soaked in hot water, then pressed 
Iry ; then add a tablespoon each of chopped parsley, suet iind celery, 
)ne-quarter teaspoon each of salt and pepper, and a dash of powdered 
;hyme (if liked). 

BAKED BASS. Wash and clean a fresh Bass for baking, leaving 
)n the head. Stuff the fish with the following mixture : two and one- 
lalf cups of line bread crumbs moistened well with any left-over drip- 
jings, the rind of a cjuarter of a lemon chopped very fine, and two or 
hree sprigs of parslev chopped fine. Season to taste w'ith salt and white 
Depper. When the fish is well stuffed, sew up the opening. Score it on 
^ach side and in the spaces place very thin slices of salt pork. Place the 
ish in a pan with a little stock, and bake in a moderate oven. W'hen 
horoughlv cooked, carefully ])lace it on a hot dish. 

To the gravy which is left in the pan, add a little tomatii sauce. Stir 
m the top of the range until it comes to a boil. Strain and serve in a 
separate dish. 

BAKED BLUEFISH. Select a nice large P.luefish, clean, and 
jrepare it for baking. Wash it in salted water, and after drying it thor- 
)ughly, fill with stuffing. Sew up the opening and rub the fish all over 
A'ith salt. Then having put small pieces of butter over it, place it in a 
arge pan with enough water to cover the bottom, and bake in a hot 
Dven for fortv-five or fift\^ minutes. After it begins to bake, sprinkle 
t with a little salt and pepper. Baste it often with the liquid in the 
Dan. AA'hen- it is cooked and a nice color, remove carefully to a hot 
Dlate. Do not break it. Serve with a brown sauce. 

BAKED COD, Select a fresh Cod, cut off the head and fins, draw% 
ivash, and split it down the belly. Remove the bone from the thick 
Dart only, and make small lengthwise incisions in the skin in order to- 
prevent the fish from curling while it is cooking. Put it to soak for 
:hree hours in a dressing made as follows: Salt, white pepper, a little 
U'orcestershire sauce, and some sw^eet oil. Drain and ])lace in a pan. 
Baste it with the dressing and sprinkle with fine bread crumbs. Bake 
in a slow oven. Add some lemon juice and finely chopped parsley. 

BAKED EELS. Prepare as for frying; then put into a baking- 
pan with a little water, flour, pepper, and salt. Bake twenty minutes. 
Make a gravy of the liquor in Avhich they were baked, adding a little 
butter or drippings. 

BAKED FLUKE (large Flounders). Prepare and cook the same 
as baked Bluefish. 

FISH LOAF. Three pounds Haddock. Have head, tail, skin and 
backbone removed, so vou have tw^o slices of solid fish. You can use 
Cod, but Haddock is better. On the bottom of your baking-pan put three 
slices fat pork. On this place one layer of the fish, sprinkle with salt 

39 



FISH RECIPES 

and pepper. Mix one cup soft bread crumbs, little salt, pepper and one- 
quarter cup of drippings, melted, and spread over the fish slice. Cover 
with the other slice of fish, sprinkle with salt and pepper and_ place 
three or four slices of fat pork on top. Bake about thirty minutes. 
Just before it is done remove pork, scatter one-half cup cracker crumbs 
over fish, replace pork and brown in oven. Serve with a white sauce. 

BAKED HADDOCK. Clean a four-pound Haddock. Sprinkle 
with salt inside and stuff and sew. Cut gashes on each side of backbone 
and insert narrow strips of salt pork. Place on a greased fish sheet or 
something to raise it from the bottom. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
dredge with flour, and place around fish small pieces of salt pork. Bake 
one hour in a hot oven, basting often. Serve with egg sauce. 

BAKED HALIBUT. Arrange six thin slices of fat salt pork 
(about two and one-half inches scpiare) in a baking-pan. Wipe a two- 
pound (or as much as you happen to have) piece of Halibut with a damp 
cloth and place it in the pan. Cover the fish with three tablespoons 
of melted drippings mixed with three tablespoons of flour ; then cover the 
top with three-quarters of a cup of cracker crumbs and arrange five 
thin strips of fat salt pork over the crumbs. Cover with greased paper 
and bake fifty minutes in a moderate oven, removing the paper during 
the last fifteen minutes to brown the crumbs and pork. Sprinkle with 
finely chopped parsley. Serve with egg sauce. 

BAKED TILE FISH. Follow directions given for Baked Cod or 
Halibut. 

BAKED MACKEREL. Stufi:' with dressing, dredge with salt and 
flour. Bake thirty minutes, basting often with water, butter or drip- 
pings and flour. ]\Iake a gravy with the water in the pan in which 
the fish is baked. Always make the gravy quite salt. The best way to 
cook Mackerel is to broil it. 

BAKED SALMON. Clean the fish, rinse it, wipe it dry; rub it 
Avell outside and in with a mixture of pepper and salt, and fill it with 
stuffing; tie a thread around the fish, so as to keep the stuffing in (take 
off the thread before serving) ; lay bits of butter or butter substitutes 
over the fish, dredge flour over it, and put in a dripping-pan ; put a pint 
of hot water in the pan to baste with ; bake one hour, if a large fish, 
in a quick oven ; baste frequently. 

BAKED SHAD. Stufl^ it with bread crumbs, salt, pepper, and 
parsley moistened well with any left-over drippings ; sew it up or fasten 
a string around it. Pour over it a little water and some fat, and bake 
as you would a fowl. A shad will require from an hour to an hour and 
a quarter to bake. 

BAKED WEAKFISH. Prepare and cook the same as Baked Cod. 

COURT BOUILLON 

Fresh-water fish or others which are without much flavor can be 
boiled in court bouillon to give them flavor. Court bouillon is made as 
follows : 

40 



FISH RECIPES 

Fry in one tablespoon of fat. one chopped carrot, one chopped 
onion, one stalk of celery. Then add two quarts of hot water, one cup 
of vinegar, three peppercorns, three cloves, one bay-leaf, one teaspoon 
of salt. 

BOILED FISH 

BOILED COD. Take the head and shoulders of a good-sized 
Cod. Scrape and wash clean ; rub a handful of salt into it ; flour a cloth 
and pin the fish in it. Put into boiling water, and boil half an hour. 
Take the fish carefully from the cloth, and serve with egg sauce. 

BOILED HALIBUT. Take a small Halibut, or what you require 
from a large fish. Put it into the fish kettle, with the back of the fish 
undermost ; cover it with cold water, in which a handful of salt has 
been dissolved. When it begins to boil skim it carefully, and then let 
it just simmer till it is done. Four pounds of fish will require nearly 
half an hour to boil it. Drain it, garnish with parsley. Egg sauce, or 
plain melted butter or butter substitute are served with it. 

BOILED TILE FISH. Follow recipe for Boiled Halibut. 

BOILED FRESH MACKEREL. If not cleaned, open them at 
the gills, take out the insides, wash clean, and pin in a fish-cloth. (Do 
not use the cloth that you* use to boil Mackerel for any other fish.) 
Drop into boiling water, and boil fifteen minutes. Serve with drawn 
butter or drawn butter made with butter substitute. 

SALMON, BOILED PLAIN. Rub the fish with salt. Have 
ready a fish kettle with enough boiling water to cover the fish ; let it 
come rather slowly to the boil. Simmer very gently till done, allowing 
about fifteen minutes to each pound. Throw in one tablespoon salt 
just before it is done. Serve with plain drawn butter sauce, which may 
be made with butter substitute. 

BROILED FISH 

BROILED COD. Split, wash, and wipe dry a small Cod. Rub 
the gridiron with a piece of fat, and lay the fish upon it, being careful 
to have the inside downward. If the fish is very thick cook thirty min- 
utes ; but for an ordinary one, twenty minutes will be sufficient. Have 
the dish in which you intend serving it warm ; place it upon the fish 
and turn the dish and gridiron over together. If the fish sticks t;) the 
gridiron loosen it gently with a knife. Have some butter or butter sub- 
stitute warm, but not melted, with which to season it. Shake on a little 
pepper and salt and send to the table. 

BROILED HALIBUT. Season the slices with salt and pepper. 
Rub with fat on both sides. Roll in flour and broil for ten minutes over 
a clear fire. Serve on a hot dish, garnishing with parsley. The slices of 
Flalibut should be about an inch thick. 

BROILED TILE FISH. Follow directions given for Broiled 
Halibut. 

BROILED MACKEREL. Split down the back and clean. Be 
careful to scrape all the thin black skin from the inside. Wipe dry and 

41 



FISH RECIPES 

lay on the gridiron ; broil on one side a nice brown, then turn and brown 
the other side: it will not take so long to brown the side on which the 
skin is. ( All fish should have the side on which the skin is turned to the 
fire last, as the skin burns easily and coals are not so hot after 3-ou have 
used them ten minutes.) Season with butter or butter substitute, pep- 
per and salt. 

BROILED SCROD. Scrod is young cod, and one may weigh 
from two and a half to five pounds; the best weigh four or five potmds. 
AVhen thoroughly broiled it should be rich, flaky, and delicious. Rub 
the gridiron with fat and broil the inside of the fish- first. Twenty 
minutes is usually sufficient to broil a fish of ordinary size. Season with 
warmed butter or butter substitute, pepper and salt. 

BROILED SALMON. The steaks from the center of the fish are 
best. Sprinkle with salt and jiepper. spread on a little butter or l:)Utter 
substitute, and broil over a clear but slow fire. 

BROILED SHAD. Scrape, split, wash, and dry the Shad on a 
cloth ; season with pepper and salt ; grease the gridiron well ; as soon 
as it is hot lay the shad on to broil with the inside downward. One side 
being well browned, turn it. It should broil a quarter of an hotu" or 
more, according to the thickness. Butter well and send to table hot. 

BROILED SMELTS. Split the Smelts down the back and remove 
the bone. Lay them on a hot broiler, which has been rubbed with fat, 
to prevent sticking. Broil over hot coals for two minutes on each side. 
Put into a dish some Bechamel sauce, and lay the broiled fish on the 
sauce, or they may be spread Avith maitre d'hotcl sauce. Serve at once 
while vcr\- hot. 

FRIED FISH 

FRIED COD. Remove the skin (ask the fish dealer to remove it 
for you ) ; cut in square pieces and remove the backbone. Scrape all the 
fish from the bones, and press it with a knife into the larger pieces. 
Season with salt and pepper and roll in fine wdiite corn-meal. Lay the 
fish in hot fat and cook brown on each side. Drain on soft paper and 
serve hot. Garnish with slices of lemon. 

Any fish having firm white flesh can be prepared in this manner 
and it is a vast improvement on the old method of sending all the bones 
to the table. 

FRIED EELS. After skinning, cleaning, and washing them, cut 
them into short pieces, and dry them well with a soft cloth. Season 
them with salt and pepper, flour them thickly, and fry them in boiling 
fat ; when nicely browaied, drain and dry them, and send to the table 
with plain melted butter or butter substitute and a lemon, or w^ith fish 
sauce. Eels are sometimes dipped into batter and then fried, or into 
egg and dried bread crumbs. 

FRIED HADDOCK. Follow same directions as for fried Cod. 
FRIED HALIBUT. Let the slices lie in cold salted water, to which 
has been added one cup of vinegar, for ten or fifteen minutes. Dry them 

42 



FISH RECIPES 

afterwards thoroughly by wiping with a towel, and dusting cracker meal 
on both sides. Lay them in smoking hot fat, and they will be well 
cooked and of a pale brown in three or five minutes, according to thick- 
ness of the slices. 

FRIED TILE FISH. Follow directions given for Fried Halibut. 

FRIED MACKEREL. Prepare the Mackerel as for broiling. 
Sprinkle a little salt over the mackerel, then fry a nice brown in hot fat. 

FRIED PERCH. Scale and clean them ])erfectly ; dry them well, 
flour and fry tluin in hot fat. Serve with parsley. 

FRIED SHAD ROE. Wash and wipe; fry twenty minutes in hot 
fat in a frying-pan. turning at the end of fifteen minutes. Season, dish 
on a hot platter. 

FRIED SMELTS. The best way to cook Smelts is to fry them, 
although they are sometimes baked. Open them at the gills. Draw 
each Smelt separately between your finger and thumb, beginning at the 
tail ; this will press the insides out. (Some persons never take out the 
insides, but it should be done as much as in any other fish.) Wash them 
clean, and let them drain in a colander; then salt and roll in a mi.xture 
half fiour and half corn-meal. Have about two inches deep of hot 
fat in the frying-pan (drippings if you have them); into this drop the 
Smelts, and frv brown. Do not put so many in that they will be 
crowded: if you do. they will not be crisp and brown. 

FILLET OF SOLE OR FLOUNDERS. Take two Soles or 
Flounders; divide them from the backbone, remove the heads, fins, and 
tails. Sprinkle the inside with pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon. 
Roll in the shape of a c^irkscrew. then roll them in egg. then bread 
crumbs, then in egg, and bread crumbs again. Fry in hot fat and serve 
with Tartare or any other sauce. 

SALT FISH 

BLOATERS. Take olt head and split open and clean. Put fish 
into frying-pan. cover with cold water and bring to boiling point. Pour 
ofl:' ^\•ater and fry. 

CREAMED SALT CODFISH. Pick in small pieces one cup Salt 
Codfish ; cover with lukewarm water and let stand on back of range until 
softened. Melt one tablespoon butter or butter substitute, add one 
tablespoon fiour. and pour on gradually one cup hot milk. Add fish, 
and serve on a hot platter. 

SALT CODFISH BALLS. Trim and soak a piece of Salt Codfish 
in cold water for six or seven hours, and during that time change the 
water two or three times. Shred it. Should it be too salt after shred- 
ding. frcs]:i'Mi it bv frequent changes of cold water. There should be one 
quart of the shredded fish. Cover it with water and let it simmei" 
gently until tender. It will not take very long. Should you boil it too 
much, you might harden ii. Have ready six good-sized, fresh-boiled 
potatoes, and mash them while hot. or use two cups of boiled rice. Have 
■he fish drained, pounded, and rubbed through a sieve, and mix with the 

43 



FISH RECIPES 

potatoes or rice three well-beaten eggs. Season to taste with salt — -if 
necessary — and white pepper, also a small lump of butter or drippings. 
Drop by the tablespoonful into a pan of boiling hot fat and fry until 
a delicate brown. Drain on brown paper and serve very hot. 

BAKED SALT CODFISH. Take one teacup of Salt Codfish picked 
up fine, two teacups of mashed potatoes or rice, one pint of milk. Mix 
them well together and then add two eggs well beaten. Stir them in 
thoroughly and then add four tablespoons of drippings, melted, and 
salt and pepper to taste. Put in a baking-dish and ba'ke twenty or 
thirty minutes. 

FISH HASH. Follow same direction as for fish hash made with 
left-over fish (see Fish Hash, page 45), but salt fish must be soaked for 
several hours. 

BAKED FINNAN-HADDIE. Place fish in cold water, then place 
on fire and let it come to a boil ; then remove skin and place in a pan 
with two tablespoons of fat ; bake in a moderate oven tweny-five or 
thirty minutes. 

BOILED FINNAN-HADDIE. Place fish in boiling water and 
boil for twenty minutes; serve with egg sauce or drawn butter. 

BROILED FINNAN-HADDIE. First heat broiler and grease 
well to keep from sticking; then place fish on broiler, meat side to the 
fire, and cook slowly fifteen minutes, being careful not to burn. Butter 
and pepper to suit taste. Butter substitute may be used in place of 
butter. 

CREAMED FINNAN-HADDIE. Tear Haddies into small strips; 
wash clean and place in saucepan with quart of water ; let it simmer half 
an hour ; then pour ofif water and add one pint of fresh milk. When this 
comes to boil, thicken with one tablespoon of flour; let it boil five 
minutes and add butter or butter substitute (size of a walnut) and a 
little pepper, and serve. 

KIPPERED HERRING. Remove fish from can and arrange on a 
platter that may be put in the oven. Sprinkle with pepper, brush over 
with lemon juice and melted butter or drippings, and pour over the 
liquor left in the can. Heat thoroughly and garnish with parsley and 
slices of lemon. 

CREAMED SALT MACKEREL. Soak the Mackerel for twelve 
hours or more, with the skin side up, and change the water several times. 
Simmer it for fifteen or twenty minutes ; and, if convenient, have in the 
water one teaspoon of vinegar, one bay-leaf, one slice of onion, and a 
sprig of parsley. Place carefully on a hot dish, and pour over it a cream 
sauce. 

BOILED SALT MACKEREL. Wash the Mackerel, and soak over 
night in clear cold water. Put them on to boil in cold water, and boil 
gently thirty minutes. Serve with drawn butter or sauce made with 
butter substitute. 

BROILED SALT MACKEREL. Soak the Mackerel for twelve 
hours or more, with the skin side up. and change the water several times. 
Simmer it for fifteen or twenty minutes; if convenient, have in the water 

44 



FISH RECIPES 

)ne tablespoon of vinegar, one bay-leaf, one slice of onion, and a sprig' 
)f parsley. Then broil and spread with butter or drippings, pepper, 
emon juice and chopped parsley. 

HOW TO USE LEFT-OVER FISH 

CREAMED FISH. Pick the fish into small pieces and heat in 
nilk. Melt one tablespoon of butter or drippings, add one tablespoon 
)f Hour, and pour on gradually one cup hot milk. Stir until it thickens 
dightly. Add fish and cook gently for one minute. Turn on a hot 
flatter and garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs. 

CURRIED COD. Two slices large Cod, or remains of any Codfish, 
;wo tablespoons of fat, melted, one onion sliced, a teacup of stock or 
kvater, thickening of drippings and ilour, one tablespoon of curry powder, 
Dne-quarter pint of milk, salt and pepper to taste. Flake the fish, and 
fry to a nice brown with the fat and onions ; put this in a stew-pan, 
idd the stock and thickening, simmer for ten minutes. Stir the curry- 
powder into the cream sauce ; put it with the seasoning into the fish 
nixture, and serve. 

FISH BALLS. Take any left-over fish, put it in your chopping 
tray, being careful that there are no bones in it ; chop fine. Pare and 
boil potatoes enough to have twice the quantity of potatoes that you 
have of fish. When cooked turn them into the tray with the fish, mash 
fine, and make into balls about the size of an egg. Flour the outside 
lightly ; have the fat hot, and fry a light brown. Rice may be used in 
place of potatoes. 

FISH CROQUETTES. 

2 cups cold cooked fish 1 cup croquette sauce 

Salt and pepper r_.emon juice and onion juice 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

Mix all ingredients; add more lemon juice if needed. Shape, dip in 
crumbs, egg and crumbs, fry in smoking hot deep fat. 

One cup tomato or canned tomato pulp may be substituted for the 
one cup milk or stock in croquette sauce. 

SAUCE FOR CROQUETTE MIXTURES. 

3 tablespoons butter or drip- Salt and pepper 
pings Celery salt 

5 tablespoons flour Lemon juice 

1 cup stock or milk Few drops onion juice 

Melt butter or drippings ; add flour, seasonings and milk. Cook 
until thick. This sauce is sufficient to thicken two cups of meat. 
for all kinds of croquettes. It may be varied by adding two egg yolks 
or one egg. 

FISH HASH. Prepare the fish as for fish balls; chop fine cold 
potatoes, and mix with the fish or use rice in place of potatoes. Turn 
the hash into the frying-pan with two tablespoons of hot fat ; add half a 
cup of boiling water ;''let this heat slowly, stirring often; then spread 

45 



FISH RECIPES 

smoothly, and brown, being careful not to let it burn. When brown 
fold it as you would an omelet. 

FISH WITH TOMATO SAUCE. One cup tomatoes or canned 
tomato pulp, one-half cup water, one-half of an onion sliced. Cook 
tomatoes, water and onion twenty minutes. Melt one tablespoon of drip- 
pings and add one tablespoon of flour, stir into hot mixture, add one- 
half teaspoon salt and one-eighth teaspoon pepper, cook until it thickens ; 
then strain. Put fish in a baking-dish and pour the tomato sauce around 
it. Bake from fifteen to twenty minutes in a moderate oven. 

FISH WITH GREEN PEPPER. One and three-quarters cups 
cold cooked fish, one cup white sauce, one-half small green pepper, one- 
half slice onion or flavor to taste with extract of onion, salt and pepper. 

Cut a slice from stem end of pepper, remove every seed and parboil 
pepper fifteen minutes. Make a white sauce with one cup milk, two 
tablespoons butter or drippings, two tablespoons flour, bit of bay-leaf, 
sprig of parsley, salt and pepper to taste, scalding the milk with the 
parsley and bay-leaf. Cook the onion finely chopped in the butter or 
drippings three minutes, or flavor with onion extract to taste; add the 
flour when well mingled, the milk, salt and pepper ; when thickened and 
smooth add the fish broken into flakes and the green pepper cut into 
narrow strips ; heat thoroughly, and serve. 

FISH PUDDING. 2 cups boiled Halibut, half cup of milk, one and 
one-half tablespoons of butter or drippings, half tablespoon of flour, one 
and one-half teaspoons salt, quarter teaspoon pepper, half teaspoon onion 
juice, two eggs. 

Pound the fish until it is thoroughly mashed, then rub it through a 
sieve; season the fish pulp with salt, pepper, and onion juice. Put the 
butter or drippings into a saucepan ; when melted add the flour and cook 
for a few minutes; then add the milk slowly, stirring constantly until 
well scalded ; then add the fish pulp, take from the fire, add the beaten 
eggs, and mix thoroughly. 

Grease well a mold holding a pint or a little more ; put in the mixture, 
pressing it well against the sides to remove any air bubbles. Cover the 
mold with a greased paper, and set in a pan of warm water covering 
one-half the mold. Place in moderate oven for thirty minutes, and do not 
let the water boil. 

FISH TOAST. One cup flaked cold fish, free from skin and bones. 

Heat in water sufficient to moisten ; add butter or drippings, pepper and 

salt. When hot pour on slice of buttered toast ; garnish with poached 

eggs. 

SALMON LOAF. 

y^ cup salmon, fresh or canned 5^2 cup milk 

Yi cup stale bread crumbs y^. teaspoon lemon juice 

1 beaten ^g^ Y2 teaspoon onion juice 

Salt and pepper to taste 
Mix all the above together; put in a greased baking-dish (jr an}' 

greased tins or custard-cups and bake in moderate oven for alxnit 

twenty minutes. 

46 



FISH RECIPES 

SALMON AND RICE. Form freshly l)oiled rice into flat cakes, 
brown slightly in fat on both sides and place on a warmed platter. Warm 
Salmon that has been left over and spread over the rice. Over this pour 
a white sauce into which has been stirred the whites of two hard-boiled 
eggs cut in dice. Garnish with the yolks cut into slices. 

SCALLOPED FISH. Two cups cold fish (Cod. Haddock. Tile fish 
or Halibut), one and one-half cups milk, one slice onion, blade of mace, 
bit of bay-leaf, three teaspoons drippings, three tablespoons flour, one- 
half teaspoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon pepper, one-half cup crumbs fried 
in drippings. 

Scald the milk with onion, mace and bay-leaf. Remove seasonings. 
Melt the drippings, add flour, salt and pepper, then gradually the milk. 
Boil three minutes. Put one-half the fish in a greased baking-dish, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper and pour over one-half the sauce. Repeat, 
cover with crumbs, and bake until the crumbs are brown in a hot oven. 

FISH SOUPS 

FISH STOCK. Put all the trimmings from the fish, such as the 
skeleton, head, fins, etc., into a saucepan, and add enough water to cover. 
Let simmer for two or three hours. Then add carrot, parsley, onion, and 
simmer for one hour more. Strain through a coarse strainer. This is a 
good foundation for fish soups and fish sauce. Left-over fish and fish 
bones can also be utilized in preparing this stock. 

FISH SOUP FROM TRIMMINGS. Put into a saucepan a carrot 
and parsley and fry them until they are reddish in color. Then add 
two pints of cold water and the bones, head and fins. Simmer for an 
hour. Take out the bones and put the rest through a coarse strainer. 
Then thicken with two tablespoons of drippings and two tablespoons of 
flour rubbed together, season to taste. This fish soup can be varied by 
adding the pulp of any left-over vegetables. 

FISH STEW 

COD, HADDOCK, TILE FISH OR HALIBUT. Remove the meat 
from the bones. Cut up one-half of the fish and put it into a saucepan 
with two or three onions and fry in drippings. Add a quart of water and 
the bones pounded. Let simmer for two or three hours. Then put the 
mixture through a strainer and return it to the saucepan. Cut the other 
half of the fish into half-inch pieces. Add them to what is in the sauce- 
pan and boil gently for ten or fifteen minutes. Then thicken with two 
tablespoons of flour moistened with a little fish stock if you have it on 
hand ; if not, use cold water. Season to taste. 

FISH CHOWDERS 

FISH CHOWDER, No. 1. Take three or four pounds of fresh 
Haddock or Cod and cut in pieces of three inches scpiare. Place in the 
bottom of your kettle five or six slices of salt pork, fry brown, then add 

47 



FISH RECIPES 

three onions sliced thin, and fry those l:)rown. Remove the kettle from 
the fire, and place on the onions and pork a layer of fish. Sprinkle over it 
a little pepper and salt, then a layer of pared and sliced potatoes, then a 
layer of fish and potatoes, till the fish is used up. Cover with water, 
aiid let it boil for half an hour. Pound six biscuits or crackers fine as 
meal, and pour into the pot ; and, lastly, add a pint of milk ; let it scald 
well, and serve. 

FISH CHOWDER, No. 2. This is the every-day style of fish 
chowder among the fishermen's families : Wash and cut in chunks 
two pounds of fresh Cod or Haddock. Pare and thinly slice one quart 
of potatoes (or as many as yon prefer) and place in cold water until you 
are ready for them. Add one large onion sliced, and fry slowly for a 
very few minutes in two tablespoons of drippings. Then in your kettle 
place a layer of fish and one of potatoes, salt and pepper, and continue 
that way until all is used, potatoes on top. Cover with cold water and let 
come to lK)il. then boil slowly or simmer, until potatoes are done. Mix 
one tablespoon flour with one of drippings, add to chowder with one 
pint milk. Allow to come to boiling point once more, add a few halved 
crackers and serve very hot. Cheap and delicious. 

FISH SALADS 

HERRING SALAD. Soak over night three Holland Herrings, cut 
in small pieces. Cook and peel eight medium potatoes and when cold 
chop with two small cooked red beets, two onions, three hard-boiled 
eggs; mix with a sauce of sweet-oil, vinegar, stock, pepper and mustard 
to taste. 

FISH SALAD. Any cold boiled or baked fish may be made into 
salad, allowing one head of lettuce and a half-pint of mayonnaise or salad 
cream to every pint of the picked fish. Any cold left-over vegetables may 
be added to the salad. 

SALAD CREAM FOR FISH SALADS. One-half tablespoon 
salt, one-half tablespoon mustard, three-quarters tablespoon sugar, one 
egg slightly beaten, two and one-half tablespoons melted butter, three- 
quarters cup milk, and one-fourth cup vinegar. Mix ingredients in 
order given, adding vinegar very slowly. Cook over boiling water, 
stirring constantly until mixture thickens, strain and cool. 



48 



VEGETABLES 

In buying vegetables buy those that are in season and not those 
that are getting scarce and therefore more expensive. 

In buying vegetables select them yourself and see that they are 
fresh. This is all-important. There are tricks in all trades, including 
the vegetable trade. 

You will find you will get more potatoes if you will buy them by 
weight and not by measure. 

Never buy sprouting potatoes. Serious illness has been known to 
follow their use. 

To test potatoes, take the two halves and put them together; if 
they are juicy enough to stick together you have a good potato. 

In buying cabbage, be sure you get a hard, heavy head, with crisp, 
white leaves and with the stalk cut close to the head. Many a large 
head of cabbage looks heavy, but on taking it in your hand you will find 
it is very light. A light-weight head of cabbage should only be bought 
at a reduced price. 

In buying beets, choose those with dirty roots and fresh, green 
leaves. This shows that they have not been soaked to freshen them. 

In buying summer squash, choose one light yellow in color. The 
shell should be tender enough to be broke with the finger nail. 

In buying winter squash, choose one that has no soft spots. Choose 
a medium size one ; the larger ones are very seedy. 

In buying cauliflower, choose a firm, white head with fresh green 
leaves. 

Li buying onions, be sure that they are firm and hard. 

In buying celery, choose a bunch with crisp white leaves. Use the 
outside pieces for soup and the inside pieces for the table. 

In buying summer carrots see that the leaves are green and fresh. 
In buying winter carrots choose the smaller ones. 

In buying string beans, break a pod; it should be brittle; strings 
should be delicate and bean very small. 

In buying lima beans, buy green, juicy pods ; the small-veined beans. 

In buying corn, see that the silk is brown. Tear open the husk and 
see that the ear is well filled with well developed kernels. Try a kernel 
with your nail ; sweet milky juice should flow. 

In buying peas, see that the pods are green and brittle and that the 
peas are green. Young peas are small. 

In buying spinach, choose that with leaves fresh and dirty. If clean, 
they have wilted and been soaked to revive them. 

In buying tomatoes, choose those that are firm, smooth and evenly 
red, with no decayed, bruised or green spots. 

In the chapter of this book entitled "Vegetable Recipes" you will 
find a great deal of useful information as to how to prepare and cook a 
great many different vegetables. 

49 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

All green veg-etabies. roots, and tubers should be crisp and hrm 
wlien put (in to cook. Tf for any reason a vegetable has lost its firmness 
and crispness it should be soaked in very cold water until it becomes 
plump and crisp. With new vegetables 'this will be only a matter of 
minutes, while old roots and tubers often require many hours. All 
vegetables should be thoroughly cleaned just before being put on to 
cook. Vegetables that form in heads, such as cabbage, cauliflower, 
and Brussels sprouts, should be soaked, heads turned down, in salted 
cold water, to which a few spoonfuls of vinegar may be added. If there 
are any worms or other forms of animal life in these vegetables, they 
will crawl out. To secure the best results all vegetables except dried 
peas, beans, etc., must be put in boiling water, and the water must be 
made to boil again as soon as possible after the vegetables have been 
added, and must be kept boiling until the cooking is finished. 

To secure the most appetizing and palatable dishes, only fresh 
tender vegetables should be cooked. If, however, green beans, peas,, 
etc., have groAvn until a little too old, a very small amount of baking-soda 
added to the water in which they are boiled makes them more tender,, 
it is commonly belicA-ed, and helps to retain the color. Too much soda 
injures the flavor, and an excess must be carefully avoided. A little 
soda may. also be used to advantage if the water is cpiite hard. Peas 
may l)e boiled for fifteen or twentv minutes in the water to which the 
soda has been added, then cooked the same as peas with pork (page 56). 

During the cooking of all vegetables the cover must be drawn to 
one side of the stew-pan. All vegetables should be thoroughly cooked, 
but the cooking should stop while the vegetable is still firm. This, of 
course, does not apply to vegetables that are cooked in soups, purees 
(thick strained soups), etc. The best seasoning for most vegetables is 
salt and good butter or drippings. Vegetables that are blanched and then 
cooked with butter or drippings and other seasonings and vcrv little 
moisture are more savory and nutritious than when all the cooking is 
done in a good deal of clear water. 

BLANCHING VEGETABLES AS A COOKING 

PROCESS 

I'lanching is a cooking process often used with vegetables, since it 
removes the strong taste and improA-es the quality. It is also conve- 
nient, since blanching may be done at any time, and the cooking com- 
pleted in a very short time wdien the dish is to be served. 

Have a large stew-pan half full of rapidly boiling water. Add a 
tablespoon of salt for every two quarts of water. Have the vege- 
tables cleaned and well drained. Drop them into the boiling w^ater, and 
bring the water back to the boiling point as quickly as possible. Roil 
rapidly, with the cover partially or wholly off the stew-pan, five to 

50 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

twenty minutes, depending' upon the vegetable, then (h^ain oft the water. 
If the cooking- of the vegetable is not to be finished at once, pour cold 
water over the vegetable to cool it quickly, then drain and set aside 
until needed. If the cooking is to be continued at once, it will not be 
necessary to rinse the vegetable with cold water. To complete the 
cooking the vegetable should be put in a small stew-pan with butter 
or drippings and the other seasonings and cooked gently until done. A 
few spoonfuls of liquid will be required for every quart of very juicy 
vegetables, and half a pint of liquid for drier vegetables. The stew-pan 
should be covered, only a slight opening being left for ventilation. All 
vegetables cooked in this manner should be cut rather small either before 
or after the blanching. 

WASTE IN PREPARING VEGETABLES 

In i)reparing vegetables for the table the careful cook will remove 
all inedible portions and wnll see to it that the total amount of refuse 
is as small as is consistent with good quality. Thin paring of potatoes 
and other vegetables is an economy which it is worth while to prac- 
tice, and is an easy way of decreasing useless loss. When potatoes are 
cooked in their skins there is absolutely no waste. A great deal of the 
potato is wasted in paring or scraping it; some nourishment is also lost 
in paring or scraping. 

TO BOIL CABBAGE 

Cut a small head of cabbage into four parts, cutting down through 
the stock. Soak for half an hour in a pan of cold water to which has 
been added a tablespoon of salt ; this is to draw out any insects that 
may be hidden in the leaves. Take from the water and cut into slices. 
Have a large stew-pan half full of boiling water; put in the cabbage, 
pushing it under the water with a spoon. Add one tablespoon of salt 
and cook from twenty-five to forty-five minutes, depending upon the 
age of the cabbage. Turn into a colander and drain for about two min- 
utes. Put in a chopping-bowl and mince. Season with butter or drip- 
pings, pepper, and more salt if it requires it. Allow a tablespoon of 
butter or drippings to a generous pint of the cooked vegetable. Cabbage 
cooked in this manner will be of delicate flavor and may be generally 
eaten without distress. Have the kitchen windows open at the top while 
the cabbage is boiling, and there will be little if any odor of cabbage in 
the house. 

CABBAGE COOKED WITH PORK. For a small head of cab- 
bage use about half a pound of salt pork. Boil the pork gently for three 
or four hours. Prepare the cabbage as for plain boiled cabbage. Drain 
well and put on to boil with the pork. Boil rapidly for twenty-five to 
forty-five minutes. Serve the pork with the cabbage. The cabbage may 
require a little more salt. 

Smoked bacon or ham may l)e substituted for the pork. Cabbage 
may be cooked in water in which corned beef was boiled. 

51 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

CREAMED CABBAGE. 

1 pint boiled and minced cabbage 1 teaspoon flonr 
Yi pint hot milk Vi teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon bntter or drippings J-2 teaspoon pepper 
Put the cabbage, hot milk, salt, and pepper in a stew-pan and on the 
fire. Beat the butter or drippings and flour together until creamy, then 
stir into the contents of the stew-pan. Simmer ten minutes, being careful 
not to scorch the sauce ; serve very hot. 

CABBAGE WITH SAUSAGE. 

6 sausages Yi teaspoon pepper 

1 quart minced cabbage Salt, if necessary 

Fry the sausages crisp and brown. Take from the frying-pan and 
pour off all but three tablespoons of the fat. Put the minced cabbage 
in the frying pan and cook six minutes. Arrange in a hot dish and 
garnish with the sausages. Serve mashed potatoes with this dish. 

PUREE OF CABBAGE AND POTAOES. 

1 pint boiled finely minced cab- 2 tablespoons butter or drip- 

bage piiigs 

6 medium-sized potatoes 2 teaspoons salt 

Yi teaspoon pepper Y^ pii^t hot milk 

Peel the potaoes and put them in a stew-pan with boiling water 
enough to cover them. Cook just thirty minutes. Pour ofif the water 
and mash fine and light. Beat in the hot milk, seasoning, and cabbage. 
Cook about five minutes longer. 



CAULIFLOWER 

Remove all the large green leaves and the greater part of the stalk. 
Put the head down in a pan of cold water which contains to each quart 
a teaspoon of salt and a teaspoon of vinegar. Let it soak in this 
water an hour or more. This is to draw out worms, if any are 
hidden in the vegetable. When ready to cook the cauliflower put it into 
a large stew-pan, stem-end down, and cover generously with boiling 
water. Add a tablespoon of salt and cook with the cover of the sauce- 
pan partially ofT, boiling gently all the time. A large, compact head will 
require a full half hour, small heads from twenty to twenty-five minutes. 
If the flowers are loose the heat penetrates to all parts quickly. When 
compact a little extra time should be allowed for the cooking, but the 
time must never exceed the half-hour. The cauliflower begins to deteri- 
orate the moment it begins to be overcooked. Overcooking, which is 
very common, can be told by the strong flavor and dark color. It makes 
the vegetable not only unpleasant to the eye and palate, but indigestible 
also. If this vegetable must be kept warm for any length of time, cover 
the dish with a piece of cheese cloth. It is better to blanch the cauli- 
flower, chill with cold water, and then heat in salted boiling water when 
needed. 

52 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

CREAMED CAULIFLOWER. 

1 pint cooked caulirtower 1 tablespoon butter or drip- 

1 pint milk pings 

1 teaspoon salt ^ tablespoon flour 

Ys teaspoon pepper 3 slices toasted bread 

Have the cooked cauliflower broken into branches and seasoned 
with half the salt and pepper. Put the butter or drippings in a saucepan 
and on the fire. When hot add the flour and stir until smooth, then 
gradually add the milk, stirring all the time. When the sauce boils add 
the salt, pepper, and the cauliflov/er. Cook ten minutes and dish on the 
slices of toast. Serve very hot. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS BLANCHED. Remove the wilted or yel- 
low leaves from the little heads or "sprouts," cut the stock close to the 
head, and soak in salted cold water for an hour or more. Drain well 
and put into plenty of boiling salted water. Allow one teaspoon of 
salt to two quarts of water. Boil rapidly for fifteen or twenty minutes, 
the time depending on the size of the heads. When done turn into a 
colander and pour cold water over the heads ; or the boiling water may 
be drained from the sprouts, which can then be seasoned with butter, 
salt, and pepper. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS SAUTE. 

1 quart lirussels sprouts Vi teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons butter or drip- ^ teaspoon pepper 

pings 
To saute a food is to cook it quickly in a frying-pan in a little fat. 
Blanch the sprouts and drain well. Put them into a broad-bottomed 
saucepan with the butter or drippings and other seasonings. Place over 
a hot fire and shake frequently. Cook five minutes. Serve hot. 

KALE 

There are several varieties of this vegetable. The dwarf, green- 
curled kale is the best for the table and is a fall and spring vegetable. 
The leaves are sweeter and more tender after having been touched by 
the frost. 

KALE BOILED WITH PORK. Cook the kale the same as cab- 
bage with pork. 

MINCED KALE, Remove all the old or tough leaves. Wash the 
kale thoroughly and drain, then put on to cook in a kettle of boiling 
water, to which has been added salt in the proportion of 1 tablespoon 
to 4 quarts of water. Boil rapidly, with the cover ofif the kettle, until the 
vegetable is tender. Pour ofif the water, and chop the kale rather fine ; 
then put back into the kettle and add 1 tablespoon of butter and 2 of 
meat broth or water for each pint of the minced vegetable. Add more 
salt if required. Cook for ten minutes and serve at once. The time re- 
quired for cooking kale varies from thirty to fifty minutes. If young 
and fresh from the garden it will cook in thirty minutes. 

53 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

SPINACH 

To clean the spinach cut off the roots, break the leaves apart and 
drop them into a large pan of water, rinse them well in this water and 
put them in a second pan of water. Continue w^ashing in clean waters 
until there is not a trace of sand on the bottom of the pan in which the 
vegetable was washed. If the spinach is at all wilted let it stand in 
cold water until it becomes fresh and crisp. Drain off the w^ater and 
blanch. For half a peck of spinach have in a large saucepan 2 quarts of 
boiling water .aid 1 tablespoon of salt. Put the drained spinach in 
the boiling water and let it boil ten minutes, counting from the time it 
begins to boil. When it begins to boil draw the cover of the saucepan a 
little to one side to allow the steam to escape. At the end of ten minutes 
pour the spinach into a colander, and when the hot w^ater has passed off 
pour cold water over it. Save the w^ater in which the spinach was cooked 
for cream of spinach soup. Let it drain well and mince coarse or fine, 
as is suitable for the manner in which it is to be served. 

One peck of spinach will make about lyi pints when blanched and 
minced. 

SPINACH WITH CREAM. 

j^j peck spinach 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter or drip- j-i teaspoon pepper 
pings Yj pint milk 

1 tablespoon flour 

ISlanch and mince the spinach. Put the butter or drippings in a 
saucepan and on the fire. When hot add the flour and stir until smooth, 
then add the minced spinach and the salt and pepper. Cook for fi\'e 
minutes, then add the milk, hot, and cook three minutes longer. Serve. 

SPINACH WITH EGG. 

j4 peck spinach y2 teaspoonful pepper 

3 tablespoons butter or drip- 2 eggs 

pings 3 teaspoons saU 

AVash and blanch the spinach, using tw^o teaspoons of the salt in 
the water in which the vegetable is boiled. Drain the blanched spinach 
and chop rather fine, return it to the saucepan, and add the salt, pepper 
and butter or drippings. Place on the fire and cook ten minutes. I lean 
in a mound on a hot dish and garnish with the hard-boiled eggs, cut ni 
slices. 

SWISS CHARDS 

This Yegetal)le is a variety of beet in which tlie leaf stalk and mid- 
rib have been developed instead of the root. It is cultivated like spinach, 
and the green, tender lea^■es art- preparetl exactly like this vegetable. 
The midribs of tlu- full-^row n lca\ t-s may hv cnoked like celer}-. 

BEET GREENS 

\\'ash thoroughly in many waters. Put into a stew-pan and cover 
generously with boiling water. y\(ld a teaspoon of salt for every two 

54 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

quarts of greens, lloil rapidly until tender. I'his will be about thirty 
minutes. Drain otT the water, chop rather coarse, season with butter 
or drippings and salt. 

The vegetable may be boiled with pork as directed for "Cabbage 
and Pork." 

ASPARAGUS 

This delicious spring vegetable should be treated very simply, yet 
carefully. 

Cut off the woody part, scrape the lower part of the stalks. Wash 
well and tie in bunches. Put into a deep stew-pan with the cut end rest- 
ing on the bottom of the stew-pan. Pour in boiling- water to come up to 
the tender heads, but not to cover them. Add a teaspoon of salt for 
each quart of water. Place where the water will boil. Cook until 
tender, having the cover partially off the stew-pan. This will be from 
hfteen to thirty minutes, depending upon the freshness and tenderness 
of the vegetable. Have some slices of well-toasted bread on a platter. 
Butter them slightly. Arrange the cooked asparagus on the toast, sea- 
son with butter and a little salt and serve at once. Save the water in 
Avhich the asparagus was boiled to use in making vegetable soup. 

Another method of cooking asparagus is to cut all the tender part 
into short pieces. Add boiling water enough to just cover the vege- 
table and place where the water will boil. Cook until tender (about 
fifteen minutes), season with salt and l)utter. and serve in the greater 
part of the juice. 

If preferred, a cream dressing may be served with asparagus. 

GREEN PEAS 

This vegetable should be cooked as soon as possil)le after gather- 
ing. Some varieties of peas lack sweetness, and in this case a little 
sugar in the water in which they are cooked improves the flavor. Over- 
cooking spoils the color and flavor of the vegetable. Peas should always 
l)e boiled slowl}-, and with the cover partially off the stew-pan. It is 
impossible to gi\e the exact time of cooking this vegetable, since so 
much depends upon the maturity of the peas, the length of time they 
have been picked, etc. Young, tender peas will generally cook in 
twent}" or thirty minutes, and the seasoning should be added while they 
are still Arm and crisp. When ])eas are o\ergrown and a little hard 
they should be cooked by the rule "Peas with Pork." \Vhen this rule 
is followed a pinch of delicate, small, white onionsniav be added to the 
peas and other ingredients and will give a \er\- savor\- dish. 

BOILED PEAS WITH BUTTER OR DRIPPINGS. Put one 

quart of shelleil pt-as in a stew-pan and add en(jugh Ixiiling water tt) 
cover them generously. Place o\er a hot Are and when they begin to 
boil draw back Avhere the water will bubble gently. Until the peas are 
done cook with the cover partiall}' off" the stcwpan. When the peas 

55 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

are tender add one teaspoon of salt and three tablespoons of butter or 
drippings. Cook ten minutes longer. If the peas are not the sweet kind 
add a teaspoon of sugar with the salt and butter or drippings. 

PEAS WITH PORK. 

1 quart peas Yi cup water 

4 ounces pork 2 small white onions 

y^ teaspoonful pepper 
Cut i)ork into small bits and put into stew-pan on the fire. Cook 
gently until a light brown, then add the water, peas, onion, and pepper. 
This is a good way to cook peas when they are a little old and hard. 

PUREE OF DRIED OR SPLIT PEAS. Soak one quart of dried 
peas overnight and follow the directions for puree of dried beans, 
page 57. 

GREEN OR STRING -BEANS 

Formerly it was difificult to find the slender, stringless green beans, 
■ but to-day the progressive market gardeners make a point of raising 
beans of this kind. Unfortunately, not all market gardeners and farmers 
are progressive, and many still raise a coarse, fibrous bean that is a 
disappointment to the customer. In the very early stage of the pod 
almost any kind of bean will be good, if properly cooked, but all except 
the stringless kind must have their strings carefully removed. The pods 
should be gathered while small and tender. If for any reason they 
become wilted, they must be made crisp and fresh bv being soaked in 
cold water. The beans that arc brought from the South in cold weather 
are usually more or less wilted. They should be freed from strings, cut 
up, and soaked at least twelve hours in cold water. They will then cook 
like fresh beans. 

TO BLANCH GREEN BEANS. Cireen beans should always be 
blanched. To do this drain them from the cold water and put them into 
water that is boiling rapidly, allowing a teaspoon of salt to two quarts 
of water. Boil rapidly, with the cover partially off the saucepan, for 
twenty minutes. Turn into a colander and let cold water run upon 
them. They are now ready to be finished in any manner you like. The 
blanching can be done in the morning while the fire is good and the 
beans be finished for dinner at the proper time. 

GREEN BEANS, PLAIN. 

1 quart beans 1 generous tablespoon butter or 

Yi pint water drippings 

1 level teaspoon salt 

String the beans if necessary and cut them into two-inch lengths. 
Blanch them as directed. Drain and put in the saucepan with the water, 
salt, and butter or drippings. Cook for ten minutes over a hot fire, turn- 
ing the contents of the saucepan from time to time. Serve very hot. If 
the beans are not tender it may take fifteen minutes to cook them, hut 
under all circumstances be careful not to overcook, as this ruins the 
flavor. If overcooked, green beans become yellow or brown. 

56 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

GREEN BEANS BOILED WITH PORK. Boil about a quarter 
of a pound of pork for five hours. Have the beans free from strings and 
cut about 2 inches long. Cook them with the pork until tender (about 
half an hour). 

SHELLED KIDNEY BEANS. All the varieties of this bean, 
v/hen gathered while the seeds are still tender, ma}^ be cooked like the 
Lima beans. They may also be boiled with pork like green beans. It 
takes from one to two hours to cook kidney beans. 

GREEN LIMA BEANS. Cover 1 quart of the shelled beans with 
boiling water. Place on the fire where they will boil up quickly, then 
draw back where they will just simmer until done. When tender pour 
ofif a part of the water. Season the beans with a teaspoon of salt and 
one tablespoon of drippings. 

Or drain the water from the beans. Put the dri]ipings in a saucepan 
with 1 tablespoon of flour. Stir over the fire until smooth, then add 
the beans and stir over the fire for five minutes. Draw back and add 
half a pint of water, meat stock, or milk. Simmer ten minutes. If liked, 
a teaspoon of fine herbs may be added a few minutes before serving. 
It will take from forty-five to sixty minutes to boil the beans suffi- 
ciently. 

DRIED BEANS 

All dried beans require the same preliminary treatment, no matter 
how they are to be finally cooked and served. Look them over care- 
fully to remove all dirt and pebbles, then, wash clean. .Soak them over- 
night in plenty of cold water. In the morning pour off the water and 
put them in a stew-pan with cold water enough to cover them generously. 
Let them come to the boiling point in this water, then drain. If the 
beans are old and hard, for each quart put about 54 teaspoon of soda in 
the water in which they are soaked overnight, also in the first water 
in which they are boiled. 

The scalded and drained beans should be put back in the stew-pan 
and covered generously with boiling water. Add 1 tablespoon of 
salt for 1 quart of beans. They should now cook slowly, with the 
cover partially off the stew-pan until they have reached the required 
degree of tenderness. For stewed and baked beans the cooking must 
stop when the skins begin to crack. For beans served with a sauce they 
should cook until perfectly tender, but they must not be broken or 
mushy. For purees and soups they should be cooked until very soft. 

PUREE OF DRIED BEANS. Cook 1 quart of beans in water 
until very soft, then drain well (saving the water) and rub through a 
puree sieve. Put 1 pint of the strained beans in a stew-pan with 2 table- 
spoons of butter or drippings, 1 teaspoon of sugar, 1 teaspoon of salt, 
one-fourth of a teaspoon of pepper, and hot milk enough to make 
the puree like thick mush. About half a pint of milk will be right. 
Cook in the double boiler for one hour, stirring often and adding more 
milk if too dry. Heap the puree in the center of a hot platter. This 

57 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

tastes particularly good with fried sausages, pork chops, or any fat meat. 
The puree may be served as a vegetable, with any kind of meat. A 
soup may be made with the water in which the beans were cooked and 
the remainder of the strained beans. 

DRIED BEANS SAUTE. Cook the beans until tender, but not 
broken. Drain off the water and save it for soup. For 1 quart of beans 
put 3 tablespoons of drippings or butter in a large-bottomed stew-pan. 
When the fat is hot put in the drained beans, which ha\e been seasoned 
with a tablespoon of salt and half a teaspoon of pepper. Cook over 
a hot fire for fifteen minutes, frequently turning the beans over with a 
fork. Cover and let them cook for half an hour where they will not 
burn. If the beans are liked moist add a cup of meat broth, milk, or 
Avater before putting them to cook for the last half hour. 

This dish may be made more savory by frying a taldespoon of 
onion in the butter or fat before adding the beans. A tablespoon of 
fine herbs may also be added to the beans to make them more savory. 

BAKED BEANS. See page 28. 

POTATOES 

A poisonous substance called solanin is found in or near the skin of 
potatoes which have grown exposed to the sun or a strong light. Solanin 
also develops when potatoes are allowed to sprout, and serious illness 
has been known to follow the eating of exposed and sprouted potatoes. 
Therefore potatoes should not be exposed to strong light or be allowed 
to sprout. 

Potatoes cooked in dry heat, as by baking in the oven, roasting in 
ashes, frying in deep fat, or steaming in their jackets have a more pro- 
nounced flavor and are more savory than when cooked in water. But 
potatoes so cooked must be served just as soon as they are done, or else 
they will become soggy and bad-flavored. 

Potatoes, if kept in a closely covered vessel or with the unbroken 
skins on, will become soggy and dark and have a rank flavor. If the 
skins are broken and the vessel ventilated, potatoes may be kept warm 
a long time without spoiling. 

Potatoes cooked in the skin should be free from any blemish and 
washed absolutely clean. Old potatoes, that is, potatoes that are kept 
into the spring and early summer, are better for being soaked in cold 
w^ater and peeled before cooking 

BOILED POTATOES. The method and time given for boiling 
potatoes are the same whether the potato be peeled, partially peeled, 
or left with the skin intact. If a dozen or two ordinary-sized potatoes 
are put on the lire in a large stew-pan and are covered generously with 
boiling water and a cover is immediately put on the stew-pan, they will 
be cooked to the projjer ])oint in thirty minutes from the time the cover 
was put on the stew-pan. Small potatoes will cook in two. minutes less 
time, and very large potatoes will require about thirty-five minutes 

58 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

cooking. If the potatoes are to be l)oiled in tlieir skins, wash them tmtil 
clean and then with a sharp knife cut a narrow band of the skin from 
the center of the potato. Cut a Httle bit of the skin from each end of 
the potato. If the potatoes are to be peeled, use a very sharp knife and 
remove the thinnest possible layer. The skins may be scraped olif, if 
preferred, and there are special knives for this purpose. Let the pota- 
toes boil fifteeen minutes, then add 1 tablespoon of salt for every dozen 
potatoes. When the potatoes have been cooking thirty minutes, drain 
off every drop of water and let all the steam pass off. They are now 
ready to serve, though they will not be injured but in fact will be im- 
proved by being kept hot for an hour or more, if they are well ventilated 
in such a way that they dry rather than retain their moisture. 

When boiled or steamed potatoes must be kept warm for any length 
of time, place the stew-pan on the range on a tripod or iron ring and cover 
the potatoes with one thickness of cheese cloth. This will protect them 
from the cold air and allow the moisture to pass off. 

BAKED POTATOES. Select potatoes having a smooth, un- 
marred surface. Wash perfectly clean and let them drain. Put them in 
an old baking-pan kept for this purpose — do not crowd them — and put 
in a hot oven. If the oven is large and hot and the potatoes of medium 
size, forty minutes will answer for the cooking. On the other hand, if 
the oven is filled with cold potatoes the temperature of the oven will 
be reduced quickly and it will require an hour to cook the potatoes. 
Baked potatoes should be served as soon as they are done. If they 
must be kept any time after the cooking is completed, break them in 
order that the moisture mav escape. Keep them in a warm oven or 
covered with cheese cloth in a stew-pan. 

REHEATING POTATOES. Cold boiled, steamed, or baked pota- 
toes may all.be utilized in savory dishes. In reheating potatoes the fol- 
lowing things must be kei)t in mind: The potatoes must be well sea- 
soned to make them savory, the}' must be heated to as high a tempera- 
ture as possible without burning them, and they must be served very 
hot. The cold potatoes may be sliced or be cut into small pieces, sea- 
soned with salt and pepper and browned in a little savory drippings, 
or seasoned as before and heated in the frying-pan with butter or the 
drippings. A little minced onion or green pepper may be added. 

A tablespoon of butter and a teaspoon of flour may be stirred over 
the fire until the mixture is smooth and frothy. Add to this a pint 
of well seasoned potatoes and stir the mixture with a fork for three 
minutes, then add half a pint of milk and cook until thoroughly heated, 
being careful not to burn. A pint and a half of cold potatoes cut in cubes 
and seasoned with salt and pepper may be heated in a pint of the white 
sauce. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. This dish may be prepared by mix- 
ing a pint and a half of cold potatoes cut in cubes and seasoned with 
a tablespoon of salt, one-fourth of a teaspoon of pepper, and a pint 
of cream sauce. Put the mixture in a shallow baking-dish, cover with 
grated bread crumbs, and dot with butter. Bake half an hour in a mod- 
erate oven. 

59 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES. Wash the potatoes and bake the 
same as white potatoes. Small ones will bake in half an hour, while 
very large ones will require an hour or more. If the potatoes are liked 
very moist and sweet, bake from an hour to two hours, depending on size. 

BROWNED SWEET POTATOES. Boil medium-sized sweet 
potatoes forty-five minutes. Peel them and cut in halves lengthwise. 
Put them in a baking-pan and baste with drippings, and season with salt. 
Cook them in a hot- oven for twenty minutes. 

FRIED SWEET POTATOES. Cut the boiled potatoes in slices 
and fry brown in drippings. Or the potatoes may be cut in four parts 
lengthwise, put in a frying-basket and be cooked for ten minutes in 
smoking hot fat. The fat must be deep enough to cover the potatoes. 

TURNIPS 

This vegetable is generally spoiled by overcooking. The flat, white 
summer turnip, when sliced, will cook in thirty minutes. If the cooking 
is prolonged beyond this time, the vegetable begins to deteriorate, grow- 
ing dark in color and strong in flavor. The winter turnips require from 
forty-five to sixty minutes. 

BOILED TURNIPS. Have the turnips peeled and sliced. Drop 
the slices into a stew-pan with boiling water enough to cover generously. 
Cook until tender, then drain well. They are now ready to mash or 
chop. If they are to be served mashed, put them back in the stew-pan ; 
mash with a wooden vegetable masher, as metal is apt to impart an 
unpleasant taste. Season with salt, butter or drippings, and a little 
pepper. Serve at once. 

HASHED TURNIPS. Chop the drained turnips into rather large 
pieces. Return to the stew-pan, and for a pint and a half of turnips add 
a teaspoon of salt, one-fourth of a teaspoon of pepper, a tablespoon 
of butter or drippings and four tablespoons of water. Cook over a 
very hot fire until the turnips have absorbed all the seasonings. Serve 
at once. Or the salt, pepper, butter or drippings, and a tablespoon of 
flour may be added to the hashed turnips ; then the stew-pan may be 
placed over the hot fire and shaken frequently to toss up the turnips. 
When the turnips have been cooking five minutes in this manner add 
half a pint of meat stock or of milk and cook ten minutes, 

CARROTS 

The carrot is vaiuable as a vegetable and as a flavorer. When par- 
tially grown and fresh from the ground they have a delicious flavor, and 
are so tender that they may be cooked without water. As the carrot 
grows old the flavor grows stronger, and in the majority of varieties the 
heart grows hard and woody. When the carrot reaches this stage only 
the outer layers are desirable for food. 

60 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

CARROTS WITH WHITE SAUCE. Scrape the carrots lightly; 
then cut into large dice or slices. Put into a stew-pan with salted boiling- 
water, allowing a teaspoon of salt for a quart of water, and boil until 
tender. The young carrots will cook in thirty minutes and the old ones 
in forty-five. Drain, season with a little salt, put them in a vegetable 
dish, and pour the white sauce over them. Or the carrots may be cut 
into dice before cooking and boiled and drained as directed ; then put 
them back in the stew-pan, and for every pint add one tablespoon of 
butter or drippings, one teaspoon of sugar, half a teaspoon of- salt, and 
one half cup of water or meat stock. Cook over a hot fire until the 
carrots have absorbed the seasonings and liquid. 

PARSNIPS 

This vegetable, because of its pronounced taste, is probably not so 
generally liked as are most of the other roots. It is at its best in the early 
spring, when it has been in the ground all winter. 

The simplest method of cooking the parsnip is to wasli it clean, boil 
it, and then scrape off the skin. Now cut in slices and put in the vege- 
table dish. Season with salt and butter or drippings When the parsnips 
are tender and just out of the ground they will cook in thirty-five min- 
utes ; when old it takes from forty to fifty minutes to cook them. The 
cooked and peeled parsnips may be chopped rather coarse, seasoned with 
salt, and put into a stew-pan with hot milk enough to cover them. Place 
the stew-pan on the range where the heat is moderate. 

For a pint and a half of parsnips beat together one tablespoon of 
butter or drippings and one teaspoon of flour. Stir into the parsnips 
and milk. Simmer for ten minutes. Parsnips are often cut in slices after 
boiling and fried in butter or drippings. 

SALSIFY 

This vegetable is sometimes called oyster plant, because the flavor 
suggests that of the oyster, particularly when the boiled vegetable is 
sliced and fried in butter or drippings. Salsify is one of the roots that 
may be left in the ground over winter, thus making this vegetable avail- 
able for the late summer, fall and spring. 

To prevent this root from turning dark it must be dropped as soon as 
it is pared and cut into a mixture of flour and water made slightly acid 
with vinegar. For 6 good-sized roots mix together 1 tablespoon vinegar, 
2 tablespoons of flour, 1 teaspoon of salt, and 3 pints of water. Wash 
and scrape the roots, then cut into slices about 3 inches long. Drop 
into the prepared water. Place the stew-pan on the fire and cook the 
salsify thirty minutes, counting from the time it begins to boil. Drain 
and serve in a white sauce. Or mi.x together one tablespoon of butter 
or drippings, half a teaspoon of salt, one teaspoon of lemon juice, and 
1 teaspoon of minced parsley. Add this to the drained salsify and serve 
at once. 

61 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

BEETS 

Beets arc among our most useful vegetables, since ilicy may be had 
all through the summer and may also be stored in good condition for 
winter use Sometimes beets are cut in small pieces, after boiling, and 
served with white sauce, but the most common as well as the most i^alat- 
able way of serving them is with butter. 

BEETS WITH BUTTER. Wash the beeis. being careful not to 
break the skin. Put into a stew-pan and cover generously with boiling- 
water and boil until tender. Young beets will cook in one hour. As the 
beets g:row old the time oi cooking must be increased. In winter this 
vegetable becc>mes so hard it may require four or more hours of steady 
boiling to soften it. It is then only suitable for pickling in vinegar after 
being; thoroughly boiled. 

When the young beets are cooked, take them from the boiling- water 
and drop them into cold water. Rub off the skin Cut the beets in thin 
slices and season with salt and butter. Ser\ e at once. 

KOHLRABI, OR TURNIP CABBAGE 

This vegetable is a variety oi the cabbage, but instead oi ihe reserve 
nutritne matter of the plant being- stored largely in the leaves or flowers, 
it is collected in the stem, which forms a turniplike enlargement just 
above the ground. Kohlrabi is fine flavored and delicate, if cooked 
when very young and tender. It should be used when it has a diameter 
of not more than 2 or .^ inches. .\s it grows large it becomes tough and 
tibrous. 

BOILED KOHLRABI. Wash and pare the vegetables, then cut 
in thin shce^. Tut into slightly salted boiling water and boil, with the 
cover partially oft' the stew-pan. until the vegetable is tender. This will 
take from thirty to hfty minutes. ]\nir oft' the water and season with 
butter or dripping's, salt, and ]->epper. 

Kohlrabi may be boiled with pork in the same way as cabbag^e. 

The cold boiled \eg-etable may be served as a salad. 

CELERY 

This veg-ctable is so generally grown that one can find it in large 
markets nearly every month of the year. Celery is at its best in the 
late fall and early winter, when the weather has been cold enough to 
crisp the blanched stalks. This plant is most useful as a salad and 
flavorer, but is perhaps most commonly eaten raw, without anv dressing 
except salt, as an accompaniment of fish, meat. etc. 

Only the tender, inner stalks should be eaten raw. The hard, out- 
side stalks make a delicious and wholesome dish when ]iroperlv cooked. 
When thus used, celery should be l.ilanched and served witli a sauce. 

STEWED CELERY. To blanch celery in cooking, remove all the 
leaves from the stalks. Scrape oft' all rn<ied or dark spots, cut into pieces 

62 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

about 3 inches long", antl put in ocUl water. Have a stew-pan of hoilinq; 
water on tlie fire. w;ish anil ilrain the celery anil put in the lioiling water. 
Add one teaspoon of salt for every 2 quarts of water. Boil rapidly 
for fifteen minutes, having the cover partially off the stew-pan. Pour off 
the water and rinse with cold water, then drain. The celery is now ready 
to hnish in the following manner: Put the celery in the stew-pan with 
one tablespoon of butler or drippings, and o\^e teaspoon of salt for each 
quart of celery. Cover and cook sloAvly for fifteen minutes. Shake the 
pan frequently while the celery is cooking. Serve hot. 

ONION 

This vegetable is the most useful of all our tlavorers. and there is 
hardly a soup. stew, sauce, etc.. that is not improved by the addition 
of the onion flavor. As a vegetable the onion may be prepared in a 
variety of ways. The white onions are the most delicate and are there- 
fore more suitable as a vegetable than the yellow or red variety. The 
large Spanish onions and the Bermuda onion are also delicate and suit- 
able for a table vegetable. If the stronger onions are tised for this pur- 
pose they must be thoroughly blanched. 

BOILED ONIONS IN WHITE SAUCE. Peel the onions and cut 
off' the roots, dropjnng iuu' cold water as fast as they are peeled. Drain 
from the cold water and put in a steAV-pan with boiling water to cover 
generously. .Add a teaspoon of salt for each quart of water. Boil 
rapidly for ten m.inutes. with the cover partially oft' the saucepan. Drain 
off' the water and cover the onion with hot sweet milk (a quart of onions 
will require a pint of milk). Simmer for half an hour. Beat together 
one tablespoon of butter or drippings and one level tablespoon of flour. 
Add one teaspoon of salt and one-fourth of a teaspoon of white pepper. 
Gradually beat in about half a cup of the milk in which the onions 
are cooking, ^^'hen smooth, stir the mixture into the onions and milk. 
Let the disli cook ten minutes longer and serve. 

STEWED ONIONS. Cut the onions in slices and boil in salted 
water for ten minutes. Drain well and return to the stew-pan. 

For a quart and a half of onion, measured before it was boiled, add 
two tablespoons of butter, one teaspoon of salt, and one-fourth of a 
teaspoon of pepper. Cover the stew-pan and cook over a hot fire for 
five minutes, shaking the pan to prevent the onion from browning. 
Set the stew-pan back where the contents will cook slowly for forty 
minutes. Drippings may be substittited for the butter, but. of course, the 
dish will not be so delicate in flavor. 

CUCUMBERS 

The cucumber is much oftener eaten in the United States as a salad 
than cooked, yet it is a ver\- palatable vegetable when stewed and served 
with a white sauce, or seasoned with butter, salt, and pepper, and served 

63 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

on toast. The pared and quartered cucumber should be cooked until 
tender in boiling salted water, which will require about fifteen minutes, 
and then served as directed. Cucumbers may also be cut in slices length- 
wise and fried like summer squash or eggplant. 

STEWED CUCUMBERS. Stew pared cucumbers, cut in quar- 
ters, or in thick slices, for fifteen minutes in a saucepan with a little 
water and a small minced onion. Pour ofif the water; stir in a little 
flour, butter, and salt; heat for two or three minutes and then serve. 

CUCUMBER SAUTE. Boil pared and quartered cucumbers for 
three minutes only. Then drain the pieces and season with salt and 
pepper. Roll in flour and cook in a saucepan with butter for twenty 
minutes. This dish may be varied by adding minced parsley and a little 
union about five minutes before the cooking is finished. 



TOMATOES 

The tomato, although not very nutritious, may be classed as one of 
our most useful \egetables. Raw. it makes an attractive and refresh- 
ing salad and may be served l)y itself or in combination with other 
vegetables, with meat or with fish. As a vegetable the tomato may be 
prepared in many ways. It makes a good foundation for soups and 
sauces. Made into catsup or ])ickles it serves as a relish. The addition 
of a little tomato gives a pleasant, acid flavor to many soups and sauces, 
and also to meat, fish, and vegetable dishes. If possible the tomatoes 
should ripen fully on the vines, as the flavor is much better than when 
picked green and then allowed to ripen. 

When properly canned this vegetable keeps well and retains its 
natural flavor. The housekeeper- who has a generous supply of canned 
tomatoes on hand will find them very valuable at all times of the year, 
but especially in the winter months when the variety of vegetables is 
not great. 

Overcooking spoils the flavor and color of the tomato. 

TO PEEL TOMATOES. Put the ripe tomatoes into a dish and 
pour boiling water over them. Let them rest in the water about one 
minute ; then pour the water ofl^. The thin skin will now peel ofif readily. 

When a quantity of tomatoes are to be peeled have a deep stew-pan 
a little more than half filled with boiling water and on the fire where 
the water will continue to boil. Put the tomatoes in a frying-basket and 
lower into the boiling water. Let the basket remain one minute in the 
water. There must, of course, be water enough to cover the tomatoes. 

STEWED TOMATOES. Peel the tomatoes and cut into small 
pieces. Put into a stew-pan and on the fire. Boil gently for twenty min- 
utes or half an hour, counting from the time it begins to boil. Season 
five minutes before the cooking is finished. Allow for each quart of 
tomatoes one generous teaspoon each of salt and sugar and one table- 
spoon or more of butter or drippings. 

64 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

1 pint peeled and cut tomatoes 1 level teaspoon salt 

or canned tomatoes 1 tablespoon butter or drippings 

1 pint grated bread crumbs A few grains of pepper 

Reserve three tablespoons of bread crumbs, and spread the re- 
mainder on a pan. Brown in the oven, being careful not to burn them. 
Mix the tomato, browned crumbs, salt, pepper, and half the butter or 
drippings together, and put in a shallow baking-dish. Spread the un- 
browned crumbs on top, and dot with the remainder of the butter or 
drippings, cut into bits. Bake in a moderately hot oven for half an 
hour. The top of this dish should be brown and crisp. 

TOMATO TOAST. Boil one quart of peeled and cut tomatoes or 
canned tomato pulp for ten minutes, then rub through a strainer. Re- 
turn to the stew-pan and add two level teaspoons of salt, half a tea- 
spoon of pepper, and two tablespoons of butter or drippings. Place 
on the fire and cook five minutes. Have the bottom of a hot platter cov- 
ered with w-ell-toasted slices of bread and pour the hot tomato over it. 
Serve at once. A poached egg may be put on each slice of toast. 

GREEN PEPPER 

The sweet green pepper, though fairly common in our city markets, 
is not as widely known as a vegetable as it deserves. Sliced, it makes 
a very fine salad alone, or mixed w^ith other salad plants like lettuce. 
Stuffed and baked peppers are very palatable. 

GREEN PEPPERS STUFFED AND BAKED. See Stuffed Pep- 
pers, page 35. 

EGGPLANT 

BAKED EGGPLANT. For baked eggplant make a dressing as 
for stuffed peppers, except that a little more salt, pepper, and butler or 
drippings are used. Cut the eggplant in two lengthwise, scrape out the 
inside, and mash it fine, then mix with the dressing and return to the 
shells. Place on a pan and in the oven. Cook forty-five minutes. 

FRIED EGGPLANT. For fried eggplant cut the vegetable in 
slices about half an inch thick and pare. Sprinkle the slices with salt 
and pile them upon one another, put a plate with a weight on top of the 
slices. Let them rest for an hour, then remove weight and plate. Add 
one tablespoon of water, half a tablespoon of salt, and half a teaspoon 
of pepper to an egg. Beat well. Dip the slices of eggplant in the 
egg, then in dried bread crumbs. Spread on a dish for twenty or more 
minutes. Fry till brown (in deep fat). 

SQUASH 

The various varieties of the summer squash are generally cooked 
when so small and tender that the thumb nail can pierce the rind easily. 

65 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

To prepare for the table wash the squash, cut into small pieces, and 
either cook in boiling water or steam it. Jt will cook in boiling water in 
half an hour. It takes about an hour to cook it in the steamer. The 
cooked squash is mashed fine and seasoned with salt, pepper, and butter 
or butter substitute. This method gives a delicate flavored but rather 
watery dish. 

Summer squash is verv palatable cut in slices and fried like egg- 
plant. 

From the more mature squash remove the thin skin and seeds. Cut 
the squash in small pieces and put in a stew-pan w^ith boiling water 
enough to cover. Boil for half an hour. Drain, mash, and season with 
salt, pepper, and butter or butter substitute. 

Cook winter squash in the same manner. Squash is one of the 
vegetables that require a good deal of butter or butter substitute. 

GREEN CORN 

Green corn, a typical American food product, is a vegetable which, 
for most palates, is easily spoiled by overcooking, since the longer the 
cooking period the less pronounced the delicate corn flavor. 

BOILED CORN ON THE COB. The most satisfactory way to 
serve green corn is on the cob. Free the corn from husks and "silk." 
Have a kettle of water boiling hard, drop the corn into the water and 
cook ten minutes. If only a few ears of corn are put in a kettle of boil- 
ing water, the temperature of the water is not lowered greatly and the 
corn will cook in eight minutes. On the other hand, if a large quantity 
of corn is crowded into a kettle of boiling water, the temperature is very 
much lowered and the time of cooking must be increased. When pos- 
sible, surround the corn with a generous quantity of boiling water. 

CORN CUT FROM COB. Corn may be cut from the cob and 
heated Avith butter or butter substitute, pepper, and a little milk. For 
this dish cook the ears fi\'e minutes in boiling water to set the juice. 
Then with a sharp knife cut through the center of each row of grains 
and with Ihe back of a case knife press the grains of corn from the hulls. 
Put the corn in a saucepan and season with salt, pepper, and butter or 
butter substitute. Add enough hot milk to moisten well, and cook ten 
minutes. Serve at once. 

The raw corn may be cut from the cob and treated in the same 
manner. 

SUCCOTASH. To a pint of corn cooked as above add a pint of 
cooked and seasoned shelled beans. 

VEGETABLE HASH 

Hash may be made with one or many cooked vegetables, the vege- 
table or vegetables being used alone or combined with meat or flsh. 
Potato is the most useful vegetable for a hash, as it combines well with 
the animal food or with other vegetables. 

66 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

The conditions essential to a good hasli are that the vegetables shall 
be cut fairly fine, but not so fine that the pieces shall lose their shape or 
stick together — that is, the particles should drop apart readily when 
shaken on a fork. Each vegetable must be cut up separately, then all 
be mixed. The vegetal^les, or vegetable, and meat or fish must be well 
seasoned with salt and pepper, and if liked there may be added a little 
minced onion, parsley, or green pepper finely minced. The hash must 
be moistened a little with meat broth, milk, or water (not more than 
half a cup for a quart of hash). When the hash is mixed, seasoned, 
and moistened, put a tablespoon of butter or drippings in a frying-pan. 
When this is melted put in the hash, and spread evenly and lightly in 
the pan. Over this put little dots of butter or drippings, using about 
one tablespoon in all. Cover the pan and place where the hash will 
not burn, but where the heat is fairly good, and cook half an hour, then 
fold and turn on a hot platter. A rich brown crust will have formed 
on the bottom of the hash if the heat was sufficient. Serve very hot. 
The plates on which hash is served should be hot. 

VEGETABLE SOUPS 

Nearly every vegetable grown may be employed in the preparation 
of soups, either as the foundation for the soup or as a garnish to any 
kind of meat stock. Meat, meat broth, or beef extract may be added to 
any of them if additional flavor is desired. 

POTATO SOUP. 

4 medium-sized potatoes ^ teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons minced onion % teaspoon pepper 

y2 tablespoon butter or butter 1 teaspoon minced parsley 

substitute 1 pint milk 
y'i tablespoon flour 

Pare the potatoes and put in a stew-pan with the onion. Cover with 
boiling water and put over a hot fire. Cook thirty minutes, counting 
from the time the pan is put over the fire. Reserve half a cup of the 
milk cold, and put the balance to heat in the double boiler. Mix the flour 
with the cold milk and stir into the boiling milk. When the potatoes, 
etc., have been cooking thirty minutes pour off the water, saving it to 
use later. Mash and beat the vegetables until light and fine, then grad- 
ually beat in the water in which they were boiled, rub through the 
puree sieve and then put back on the fire. Add the salt and pepper. 
Peat with an egg- whisk for three minutes, then gradually beat in the 
boiling milk. Add the butter or butter substitute and minced parsley 
and serve at once. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

1 quart peeled and finely cut 2 teaspoons salt 
tomatoes or canned tomato ^{> teaspoon pepper 
pulp 2 tablespoons butter or drip- 

1 quart cold water pings 

1 onion 2 tablespoons flour 

1 tablcsi^oon sugar 

67 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

Put into a stew-pan all the ingredients, except the butter or dripping 
and flour, the onion being left whole. Stir frequently until the soup 
boils, then cook fifteen minutes, counting from the time it begins to boil. 
At the end of this time beat the butter or drippings and flour together 
until light and smooth and stir into the soup. Cook ten minutes longer, 
then take out the onion and serve the soup with toasted or fried bread. 
If a smooth soup is desired strain through a fine sieve. This is the 
simplest kind of tomato soup. It may be varied by the addition of rice, 
macaroni, beans, peas, and other vegetables. Instead of the fried bread, 
stale bread may be cut in small pieces and put in the bottom of the soup 
tureen. 

ONION CHOWDER. 

3 quarts boiling water Yz teaspoon pepper 

1 pint minced onion 3 tablespoons butter or drip- 

1 quart potatoes cut in dice pings 

3 teaspoons salt 1 tablespoon fine herbs 

Cook the onion and butter or drippings together for half an hour, but 
slowly, so that the onion will not brown. At the end of this time add the 
boiling water, potatoes, salt, and pepper and cook one hour longer, then 
add the fine herbs and serve. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 

1 quart shelled peas 2 tablespoons butter or drip- 

3 pints water pings 

1 quart milk 1 tablespoon flour 

1 onion 3 level teaspoons salt 

J/2 teaspoon pepper 
Put the peas in a stew-pan with the boiling water and onion and 
cook until tender, which will be about half an hour. Pour off the water, 
saving for use later. Mash the peas fine, then add the water in which 
they were boiled, and rub through a puree sieve. Return to the sauce- 
pan, add flour and butter or drippings, beaten together, and the salt and 
pepper. Now gradually add the milk, which must be boiling hot. Beat 
well and cook ten minutes, stirring frequently. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP. See page 23. 

BEAN SOUP. See page 23. 

FRIED VEGETABLES FOR SEASONING. Vegetables when 
used raw as a seasoning give a strong flavor, and only a little of each 
should be used. For flavoring soups, sauces, stews, etc., fried vegetables 
are far superior to the raw. To prepare them for use, clean and peel or 
scrape the vegetables, then cut them into small pieces, and put in a 
saucepan with butter or drippings, allowing two generous tablespoons 
of butter or drippings to a pint of vegetables. Place on a hot part of the 
range and stir until the butter or drippings and vegetables become hot. 
Partially cover the saucepan and set back, where the vegetables, which 
should be stirred often, will cook slowly for half an hour. Then add the 
vegetables to the dish they are to flavor. 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

VEGETABLE SALADS AND DRESSINGS 

Nearly all vegetables may be served in the form of salad. The 
salads made with the raw vegetables are more refreshing and perhaps 
more generally relished than those made with cooked vegetables. The 
most common green salad plant in the United States is undoubtedly 
lettuce, and perhaps celery, alone or mixed with other materials, next. 
Endive, chicory, blanched dandelion, and other plants should also be 
used, as they give a pleasant variety to the menu. 

Raw vegetables should be used only when tiiey are young, tender, 
and fresh. When boiled green vegetables are used for a salad they 
should not be cooked so long that they lose crispness and flavor. Salad 
dressings are usually sharp or pungent sauce, with which the salad is 
moistened and seasoned, or "dressed." The best all-round salad dressing 
is what is known as French salad dressing (see page 14). This is 
suitable for any vegetable salad, raw or cooked. 

CABBAGE SALAD, Either red or white cabbage may be used for 
salad, and must be firm, crisp, and tender. Remove the outer leaves and 
cut the tender cabbage into fine shreds. Wash well and let soak in cold 
water for half an hour. Drain and season with French dressing or 
cooked salad dressing. Serve at once. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. This vegetable should always be crisp and 
fresh when used. There is an old and widespread belief that cucumbers 
are more wholesome if the slices are soaked in cold water or in salted 
water before serving. Doubtless the distress which some persons expe- 
rience after eating cucumbers is due to the fact that they are swallowed 
without proper mastication. It does not seem probable that there is any 
unwholesome property in this vegetable when we recall the extent to 
which it is eaten in some other countries and the good reputation which 
it bears there. 

Cucumbers should be pared and sliced thin, and then may be dressed 
with oil and vinegar, like lettuce, or with a little vinegar, salt, and pep- 
per. Cucumbers are at their best for salads when fairly young, and 
should not be used after the seeds have become hard and tough, as most 
persons consider them objectionable. 



69 



CEREALS 

Cereals rank first among vegetable foods. They contain in varying 
proportions all the elements necessary to support life. They contain a 
great deal of starch, which is needed to keep the body warm and to make 
it do its work. A bowl of oatmeal, eaten for breakfast, will furnish the 
average man with all the strength, heat and energy he will need. 
Cereals witli cooked fruits are particularly appetizing. 

It is best not to buy cereals in very large quantities, because, if they 
are kept too long, insects are apt to develop in them. Cereals should 
always be kept in glass-covered jars. 

Cereals are improved by long cooking. Therefore, oatmeal, hominy 
and other cereals which are left over can be added next day to the fresh- 
cooked cereals. 

Left-over cereal can be molded cold and served with either fresh or 
cooked fruit, or it can be used in making pancakes, mufBns and pud- 
dings; also to make gruel for sick people. Cold hominy and corn-meal 
mush can be cut into slices and fried. This makes an excellent vege- 
table or breakfast dish, with or without syrup. 

All cereals should be cooked at first for ten minutes directly over 
the fire and then put into a double boiler. If you haven't a double boiler, 
place the saucepan containing the cereal in a larger saucepan that con 
tains hot water. By using a fireless cooker you can prepare your cereal 
at night, cook it on the stove for about ten minutes, put it in the fireless 
cooker, and when you get up in the morning you will find it all cooked 
and ready to be eaten. In this way you save both time and fuel. 

If you want to save time in the morning, you can soak your hominy, 
corn-meal or oatmeal overnight. If this is done, it will take only one- 
half the length of time for cooking. 

Cereals recjuiring more than one hour to cook should be cooked the' 
day before they are to be eaten and reheated in the morning. 

Cook steam-cooked cereals, as a rule, twice as long as is directed 
on the package. Only by long cooking are cereals made wholesome and 
well-flavored. When not cooked enough they often occasion sickness. 

Stir coarse, flaky cereals as little as possible. Fine, granular cereals 
may be beaten. To keep these fine cereals from lumping, mix them with 
cold water instead of sprinkling them dry into boiling water. 

Cereals should absorb all the water they are cooked in; if too moist 
when nearly done, cook uncovered for a time. 

To improve rice, farina or hominy, stir in one-quarter of a cup of 
milk about fifteen minutes before taking from fire, and leave the cover 
ofif during the rest of the time. 

Both corn-meal and hominy are made horn corn. Rolled oats is 
the entire oat crushed and rolled. Both corn and oats are full of heat, 
energy and flesh-building material and are a most healthful food for von 
to eat. 

Fried corn-meal or hominy is a pleasing and satisfactory substitute 
for potatoes and costs less than potatoes. 

70 



CEREALS 

There is a large hominy, sometimes called Samp, which people in 
this citv do not seem to know and use verv little. TRY IT AS A VEGE- 
TABLE IN PLACE OF POTATOES. ' It costs less, tastes good and 
contains more nourishment than potatoes. 

Rice contains more energy-giving material than potatoes and can 
be used in place of potatoes. 

Potatoes are three-quarters water, while rice has practically no 
water. 

Potatoes are one-fifth starch, while rice is more than three-quarters 
starch, and starch gives heat and energy to the body. 

Rice contains two-thirds more flesh-l)uilding- material than potatoes. 
Therefore a given amount of money will buy four times as much food 
value if spent for rice as it will if spent for potatoes. If used with 
cheese, peas, beans or lentils, rice will give you practically all the food 
your body needs. 

Cheese contains the same flesh-building material as meat and can 
be used in place of meat, and while the price of cheese has gone up of 
late, only a very small quantity is needed, if combined with rice or 
macaroni, to make a dish that will take the place of both meat and pota- 
toes. 

Peas, beans and lentils are rich in flesh-building material and when 
combined with rice in an appetizing way will take the place of both meat 
and potatoes. 

Many people do not like rice. This is largely because they do not 
know how to cook it properly or how to combine it with other foods so 
as to make it taste well. 

The eating of rice in place of all other foods is not advised, but the 
cost of living can be greatly reduced by using rice in place of potatoes, 
and by using rice combined with cheese, peas, beans or lentils in place 
of both meat and potatoes. 

When you buy rice, ask for "Standard Grade Head Rice." 



TRY THE FOLLOWING CEREAL RECIPES 

THEY ARE WHOLESOME, PALATABLE 

AND INEXPENSIVE 



71 



CEREAL RECIPES 

OATMEAL PORRIDGE — Oatmeal requires to be cooked until 
very soft, but should not be mushy. The ordinary rule is to put a cup 
of meal into a quart of salted boiling- water (a teaspoonful of salt), 
and let it cook in double boiler the required time. It is well to keep the 
pan covered until the oatmeal is cooked ; then remove the cover and let 
the moisture evaporate until the oatmeal is of the right consistency. It 
should be moist enough to drop but not run from the spoon. It should 
be lightly stirred occasionally to prevent its sticking to the pan, but 
carefully, so as not to break the grains. 

If carefully cooked, the sides of the pan will not be covered with 
burned oatmeal, and so wasted. 

OATMEAL GRUEL— Boil two-thirds of a cup of well-cooked oat- 
meal in one cup of boiling water fifteen minutes. Add an equal amount 
of milk, a few grains of salt and a grating of nutmeg. It may be served 
strained or unstrained. 

OATMEAL MUSH WITH APPLES— Core apples, leaving large 
cavities ; pare and cook until soft in syrup made by boiling sugar and 
water together, allowing one-half cup of sugar to one and one-half cups 
water. Fill cavities with oatmeal mush ; serve with the syrup in which 
the apples were cooked. 

CORN-MEAL MUSH— Sprinkle with the hand a pint of corn-meal 
into boiling salted water, a little at a time. Cook for two hours over a 
slow fire. If the corn-meal is soaked overnight, just add it to boiling- 
salted water the following morning and cook for an hour over a slow 
fire. This may be eaten cold or hot, with milk or with butter and sugar 
or with syrup. 

CORN-MEAL MUFFINS— 

1 cup corn-meal 6 level teaspoons baking-powder 

^ cup flour 1 cup milk 

y2 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon butter or melted drippings 

Mix well the corn-meal, flour, salt and baking-powder. Stir in milk 
'and add butter or melted drippings. Rake in hot oven for 20 minutes. 
You can use greased mufifin-pans or bake it in one, loaf. 

FRIED CORN MUSH — Pour well-boiled corn-meal mush into a 
bread-tin or a dish with straight sides. After it is cold cut into even 
slices and fry so that a crisp crust is formed on both sides. 

CORN-MEAL MUSH WITH CHEESE— Instead of being fried, 
the slices of mush can be browned in a greased pan in the ove«n. They 
can also be made into a savory dish to be eaten with bread, by sprinkling 
them with grated cheese and a little salt, pepper and finely minced 
parsley. Place in the oven to melt the cheese. 

12 



CEREAL RECIPES 

HOMINY GRITS— Add one cup of hominy to 4 cups of boiling 
water. Cook fur ten minutes directly over the fire and then put into a 
double boiler. Cook for two hours, stir occasionally, x-ery lightly. If 
hominy is soaked overnight, add it in the morning to the boiling water 
and cook for an hour. This may be eaten hot or cold, with milk, 
or \\ith butter and sugar, or with syrup. 

FRIED HOMINY — Cut cold boiled hominy into even slices and 
fry so that a crisp crust is formed on both sides. 

LARGE HOMINY (sometimes called Samp) — Soak one cup of 
samp overnight. In the morning add four cups of boiling salted water 
(1 teaspoon salt). Boil until soft but not mushy. Pour ofif water, put 
in dish and place in warm oven for a few minutes to dry ofif. Plain 
boiled samp is usually used as a vegetable in place of potatoes. 

CEREAL MUFFINS— 

y2 cup cooked cereal* (left-over) 1 tablespoon butter or melted 

1)4 cups flour drippings 

6 level teaspoons baking-powder 1 cup milk 

^ teaspoon salt 

Mix well the flour, baking-powder and salt. Add milk to the cooked 
cereal and then stir it into the flour, baking-powder and salt. Then add 
the melted butter or drippings. Bake in hot oven for 20 to 30 minutes. 
You can use buttered muffin-pans or bake in one loaf. 

CEREAL MOLDED WITH FRUIT— Take left-over cold cereal. 
If very stifle, add a little milk or water and stir into it a few scalded 
cut-up dates or hgs. Prunes or any other cooked fruit can be used in 
place of dates or figs. Pour into a mold and serve cold with a little 
sugar and milk. If prunes are used serve with the juice of the prunes. 

CEREAL PANCAKES— 

1 cup sweet milk 1 cup cooked cereal (left-over) 

1 cup flour 1 ^%^ 

2 teaspoons baking-powder 1 teaspoon salt 

Beat the ^g^ and cooked cereal together until light and smooth and 
stir in the milk. Sift the flour and salt together and add to the cereal 
mixture. When ready to bake the cakes, stir in the baking-powder and 
beat the batter- vigorously. Cook on hot pan. 

CEREAL PUDDING— 

1 cup cooked cereal (left-over) 3^ cup molasses 

2 cups scalded milk l^/l teaspoon salt 

\y2 tablespoons butter or butter substitute 
Pour milk on cereal and mix well. Add remaining ingredients, 
pour into greased pudding-dish and bake one hour in slow oven. 

CORN-MEAL PUDDING— 

5 cups scalded milk 1 teaspoon salt 

y2 cup corn-meal 1 teaspoon ginger ^ cup molasses 

Pour milk slowly on corn-meal, cook in double boiler .twenty min- 

7Z 



CEREAL RECIPES 

utes, add molasses, salt and ginger; pour into greased ptidding-dish and 
bake two hours in slow oven. Ginger may be omitted. 

BOILED RICE— 

1 cup rice 2 quarts boiling water 1 tablespoon salt 

Pick over rice; add slowly to- rapidl}- boiling water, a few grains at 
a time so as not to check boiling of water. After all rice has been added, 
stir once only, using a fork to avoid breaking grains. Boil thirty min- 
utes, or until soft, adding salt when nearly cooked. Drain in coarse 
strainer, and pour one quart hot water over the rice; put in dish and 
place in warm oven to dry off. 

The water should be boiling all the time }ou are adding the rice. 
That is why you should add a few grains at a time. If you put all the 
rice in at once, the water will stop boiling and the rice grains will all 
stick together instead of each one being separate and distinct as it should 
be in properly cooked rice. 

Plain boiled rice is usually used as a vegetable in place of potatoes. 
Save water in Avhich rice was cooked and use it for soups and gravies. 

CREAM OF RICE SOUP. (See page 21.) 

SAVORY RICE. (See page 27.) 

RICE BALLS WITH TOMATO SAUCE— ^lake balls of hot 
cooked rice and ser\ e with hot tomato sauce. 

RICE WITH CHEESE. (See page 27.) 

TURKISH RICE — Wash and drain one-half cup rice ; cook in one 
tablespoon butter (or drippings) until brown ; add one cup boiling- 
water, and steam until water is absorbed. Add one and three-fourths 
cups hot stewed tomatoes, cook until rice is soft, and season with salt 
and pepper. 

RICE AND CABBAGE— 

1 cup stock or boiling water y^ cup boiled rice 

2 thin slices bacon j.^ teaspoon chopped parsley 
y2 medium-sized cabbage Salt and pepper to taste 
Chop the bacon finely; add cabbage finely chopped and moisten 

with the boiling water or stock. Cook slowly, uncovered, for 30 min- 
utes. Add the rice, parsley, salt and pepper and cook 15 minutes longer. 

BAKED RICE AND CHEESE. (See page 28.) 

KIDNEY BEANS AND RICE WITH BROWN SAUCE— Put 
two tablespoons of butter or drippings in a saucepan and brown until 
dark, but do not burn it. Add one tablespoon flour, stir and brown 
again. Add two cups good stock (beef is best) ; season Avith salt and 
pepper. Cook one pint fresh shelled beans in salted Avater until tender. 
Add one cup of cooked rice ; then add the sauce, and cook one minute 
longer. Gravy can be used in place of the stock. If gravy is used, but- 
ter or dripping should be left out. In food value this dish takes the 
])lace of both meat and jjotatoes. 

LENTILS AND RICE. (See page 30.) 

74 



CEREAL RECIPES 

LENTILS AND RICE CROQUETTES. (See page 30.) 
CURRIED TOMATOES AND RICE— 

1 (jt. ste^ved tomatoes or 1 teaspoon curry-powder 

1 qt.-can of tomato ]nilp Salt to taste 

1 cup l:)oiled rice 

Add the curry-powder and salt to the tomatoes; mix well. Put a 
layer of the tomatoes in the Ixittom of a baking-dish, then a layer of the 
rice, then a layer of tomatoes, and so on until all is used, having- the last 
layer tomatoes; sprinkle tlie top over with bread crumbs and bake in a 
moderate oven for a half hour. Serve in the dish in which it was baked 

RICE WITH GRAVY— Boil rice. (See "Boiled Rice.") Heat any 
left-over gravy you have and pour over the rice. 

RICE WITH STEWED PRUNES— A\'ash and pick over prunes. 
Put in a saucejjan, cover with cold water, and soak two hours; then cook 
until soft in same water. When nearly cooked, add sugar to sweeten. 
Many prefer the addition of a small cpiantity of lemon juice. Serve with 
any left-over cold rice. 

Any dried fruit may be co()ked and used in place of prunes. 

SIMPLE RICE PUDDING— Wash a cup of rice ; then boil it on 
the stove in a cjuart of water for about 5 to 10 minutes. Take it ofif the 
stove and do not drain ; then add a quart of milk, ^,4 cup of sugar, 3^ tea- 
spoon salt and a little nutmeg. Put it in the oven and bake very slowly 
for about 1 hour. Stir it frequently while it is leaking. 

COLD RICE — Cold rice can be added to any soup, made into cro- 
quettes, used in a scalloped dish, or it can be mixed with minced meat 
and egg and fried like an omelet. 

Cold rice can be mixed Avith a small quantit}- of meat, and used for 
stuffing eggplant; or it can be reheated or made into pudding. 

A few spoons of left-over rice mixed with a little chopped meat, 
or fish, and a few spoons of gravy or white sauce to moisten it, can 
be put in a baking-dish, covered with bread crumbs, and baked in 
the oven. 



75 



BREAD 

Freshly baked bread is not as healthy as bread that is a day or more 
old. In the case of dyspeptics, doctors first of all forbid fresh bread and 
insist upon the patient eating bread a da}' or two old. 

In addition to being better for you physically, yesterday's bread is 
better for your pocketbook, for it does not cost as much as to-day's bread. 

Every Penny Saved Is a Penny Earned. 

Here is one way to improve }our health and that ol your family and 
at the same time save money. 

As a people, we have more or less formed the habit of eating white 
bread only and do not realize that other breads, such as whole-wheat, 
rye, and whole-corn-meal bread are extremely palatable and much more 
nutritious. In fact, by using whole-wheat flour or whole-corn-meal you 
get 30% more nourishment from the same amount of flour. 

While it is important that grown people should use whole-wheat, 
rye, or whole-corn-meal bread instead of white bread, it is still more 
important for children. White bread is not good for growing children, 
for white flour does not contain the lime or other mineral salts necessary 
to build up bones and teeth. In addition to this, whole-wheat tiour 
prevents constipation and adds to the general health. 

We should use whole-wheat flour and whole-corn-meal instead of 
white flour, not only because they are more nutritious but because of 
the waste that can be saved. In milling white flour only 73% of the 
wheat is used, while in milling whole-wheat flour 85 ^c of the wheat is 
used. You can see for yourself iliat if people would use whole wheat 
bread in place of white bread the wheat that is now wasted would be 
saved. This would increase the bread supply of this country by 
nearly 9%. 

In view of the present food crisis you should resolve to do your 
share toward saving the waste that now takes place. Here is your 
opportunity to help correct one of the nation's extremely wasteful habits 
and, while doing so, help yourself. 

Because of our large shipments to Europe ottr supply of wheat is 
extremely low at the present time and the help of every housewife is 
required to make our present supply cover the needs of Europe as well 
as this country. By using whole-wheat bread, rye bread, corn bread, 
rice bread and rolled-oats bread in place of white bread : 

You will be giving your family a nourishing bread : 

You will be helping your country to correct one of its wasteful 
habits ; 

You will be helping to feed your own countrymen ; 

You will be helping to feed Europe ; 

You will be learning now an economy that you will be obliged to 
adopt before many years go by. 

Here is your opportunity to do something 
FOR YOUR COUNTRY; 
FOR YOUR FAMILY; FOR YOURSELF. 

76 



BREAD RECIPES 

FLOUR. Flour should always be kept in a cool, dry place, away 
from dust, flies, and vermin, and, since it absorbs flavors easily, away 
from other foods or other supplies which have strong odors. This ap- 
plies equally to the home and to the store. 

YEAST. When in good condition compressed yeast is soft and 
yet brittle and is the same color throughout, a creamy white. It should 
have no odor except that of yeast, which is familiar to most people but 
difficult to describe. 

FAT. Fat, if used, may be butter, lard, beef fat, cottonseed oil, 
or any other of the ordinary fats used in cooking. It should, however, 
be wholesome, of good quality, and in good condition. Bread is so little 
improved by the addition of fat that it is a mistake to run the slightest 
risk of injuring its flavor by using fat of questionable quality. 

KNEADING. Dust a little flour on the dough and on the palms 
of your hands. Fold the edge of the dough farthest from you toward 
the center of the mass, immediately pressing the dough down and 
away from you with a gentle rolling motion of the palms of the hands, 
twice repeated. Turn the dough so that what was the right-hand part 
of it shall be farthest away from you ; fold over and knead as before ; 
continue to do this, turning the dough and flouring your hands, the 
board, and the dough, to keep the dough from sticking. Should it stick 
to the board, scrape it free with a dull knife and flour the board anew. 
Knead the dough until it does not stick to your hands or the board, is 
smooth on the surface, feels spongy and elastic, and rises quickly after 
being indented. 

The use of a bread-mixer saves labor and is more sanitary than 
kneading by hand. 

FIRST RISING. Replace the dough-ball in a wet bowl, brush 
the top with water, cover the bowl with several thicknesses of cloth, 
and set it near the stove or in a pan of warm water, turning another 
pan over it. 

SECOND RISING. When the dough has risen to twice its original 
bulk, lift it on to the board and shape into small loaves, handling lightly 
and using no additional flour. Put into pans, and let it stand in a warm 
place, covered with a thick clean cloth, until it has again doubled in bulk. 

BAKING. When the dough is nearly risen, test the oven ; it should 
be hot enough to turn a piece of writing paper dark brown in six min- 
utes. Bake small loaves thirty-five minutes ; brick loaves, four inches 
thick, fifty to sixty minutes. Turn the pans if the bread does not bake 
evenly. 

17 



BREAD RECIPES 

WHOLE-WHEAT BREAD (with a sponge). 

W hole-wheat tiour, about 3 Compressed yeast, 1 cake 

cups Salt, 3 teaspoons 

Lukewarm water, II4 cups Sugar, 2 tablespoons 

]\Iix the yeast smoothly with one-fourth of a cup o'f the water; 
dissolve salt and sugar in the rest of the water in a bowl ; stir the yeast 
into this ; and then stir in enough flour to make a drop-batter. Beat 
until the batter is full of bubbles (not less than five minutes), cover 
the bowl, and let the batter, or sponge, rise until doubled in bulk. 
Stir in the rest of the flour, beat thoroughly. Turn out on a floured 
board and knead thoroughly. Turn into pans, and let rise until not 
quite doubled in bulk, and bake for 45 or 50 minutes. I-'or an overnight 
rising use half the amount of yeast, 

CORN-MEAL-AND-WHEAT BREAD. 

\y2 cups milk, water, or a mix- 1 tablespoon sugar 

ture of the two 1 tablespoon fat (if used) 

1 cake compressed }east 1 cup corn-meal 

1/^ teaspoons salt 2 cups wheat flour 

Pour 134 cups of the water over the corn-meal, salt, sugar, and 
fat (if used), and heat the mixture gradually to the boiling point or 
nearly to it and cook 20 minutes. This cooking can be done best in a 
double boiler. The water is sufficient only to soften the meal a little. 
Allow^ the meal to cool to about the temperature of the room and add 
the flour and yeast, mixed with the rest of the water. Knead thor- 
oughly, let rise until it doubles its bulk, make into a loaf, place in a pan, 
allow to rise until it nearly fills the pan, and bake 45 or 50 minutes. 
For an overnight rising use half the amount of yeast. 

RICE BREAD. 

1 cup lukewarm water, milk, or 1 tablespoon sugar 

a mixture of tlie two Butter (if used) or other fat, 

1 cup uncooked rice 1 tablespoon or less 

1^ teaspoons salt 1 cake compressed yeast 

2 cups wheat flour 

Steam the rice with one-half of the liquid until it is soft. This is 
done in a double boiler. Put the sugar, salt, and fat (if used ) into 
the mixing bowl and pour over them the remaining liquid (y^ cup). 
When the mixture has become lukewarm add the yeast and y cup of 
flour. Allow this sponge to rise until very light. Add the boiled rice, 
which should have been cooled until lukewarm, and the rest of the flour. 
Knead thoroughly. This dough is so thick that some pressure is re- 
quired to work in the last portions of the flour. Allow the dough to rise 
until it has doubled its bulk, form into a loaf, place in a pan and allow to 
rise until it nearly reaches the top of the pan. and l^ake. For an over- 
night rising use half the amount of yeast. 

RYE BREAD. 

1 quart milk Its cake compressed yeast 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 cup wheat flour 
4 tablespoons salt 2 cups rye flour 

2 tablespoons fat 

78 



BREAD RECIPES 

Scald the milk. Put the sugar and salt (and fat, if used) into a 
mixing" bowl. Pour the hot liquid over it and allow it to become luke- 
warm. Mix the yeast with a little of the lukewarm liquid and add it to 
the rest of the liquid. If convenient, set this aside in a warm place for 
one hour; if not convenient to set it aside, add the flour at once, putting" 
in a little at a time. Mix w^ell ; turn out on a floured board and knead 
until the dough is of such consistency that it sticks neither to the bowl 
nor to the hands. This requires abotit 10 minutes. Cover, and allow to 
rise 1^ hours in a warm place. Cut down the dough from the sides of 
the bowl ; grease the hands slightly. Knead a little and set aside to rise 
again for one hour. At this point the dough should be placed in a 6- 
quart bowl lined with a cloth into which flour has been rubbed. When 
the dough has risen to the top of the bowl turn out on a hot sheet iron (a 
dripping pan inverted will do), over which 1 tablespoon of flour has 
been sprinkled, and put it immediately into a very hot oven. After 10 
minutes lower the temperature somewhat and bake for 1 hour. For an 
overnight rising use half the amout of yeast. 

ROLLED-OATS BREAD. 

2 cups boiling water ^4 cup lukewarm water 

Yz cup brown sugar Ij.! cups rolled oats 

2 teaspoons salt 5 cups flour 
IJ^ yeast cake 

Dissolve the yeast cake in the lukewarm w^ater. Pour the boiling 
water over the rolled oats, salt, and sugar, and let stand until lukewarm ; 
add the dissolved yeast and flour. Let rise until very light, beat thor- 
oughly and then knead thoroughly, and turn into two buttered bread 
pans. When the loaves have doubled their volume bake them an hour 
in a moderate oven. For an overnight rising use half the amount of 
veast. 



79 



HOW TO USE LEFT-OVERS 

European housewives are noted for knowing how to combine left- 
overs in such a way as to make most savory and nourishing dishes; 
indeed, it is a common saying that a European family can live on what 
the average family in this country throws away. 

Every scrap of food left over from a meal can be used in some way. 

Learn to save money by avoiding waste. 

If possible, buy for more than just one meal at a time; in other 
words, when buying plan to have something left over for another meal, 
particularly where the cooking takes a long time or where the food can 
be reheated to advantage. This will save you time, labor and money. 

LEFT-OVER MEAT — Left-over beef, lamb, mutton and veal are 
excellent for hash, scalloped dishes, croquettes, a loaf, and salads. Left- 
over beef, lamb or mutton make excellent stews, with the addition of 
any left-over vegetables. Any left-over meat, vegetables and gravy can 
be used to make a meat pie. A left-over ham-bone will greatly improve 
the flavor of pea or bean soup. Any kind of cold meat can be chopped 
and used in an omelet, or combined with rice and tomatoes, used for 
scalloped dish. 

LEFT-OVER POULTRY— Left-over chicken or turkey makes ex- 
cellent hash, scalloped dishes, croquettes, creamed dishes, and salads. 
The carcass of a chicken or a turkey makes a splendid soup. Stuffing 
left from chicken or turkey can be sliced thin, browned in the oven, and 
served on toast. 

LEFT-OVER FISH— Any left-over fish can be used for creamed 
dishes, croquettes, fish pudding, and scalloped dishes. 

LEFT-OVER VEGETABLES— Vegetables are not hurt by re- 
heating. Left-over vegetables can be used for flavoring soups, for mak- 
ing cream soups, scalloped dishes, vegetable hash, filling for an omelet, 
and for salads. The leaves of celery and any left-over parsley are valu- 
able in the soup pot for flavoring. They can be dried out in a luke- 
warm oven and kept in a covered jar until needed. The celery roots 
can be saved for soup stock, and the water in which stewed celery has 
been cooked can be saved and used for cream of celery soup. The tops 
of summer beets and turnips, and the outer leaves of lettuce can each 
be cooked as spinach. They make excellent greens. 

LEFT-OVER EGGS — Any left-over poached or soft-cooked eggs 
may be returned to the hot water and cooked until hard. They can then 
be chopped and used with left-over meat or fish dishes. Any left-over 
fried eggs, pieces of omelet or scrambled eggs will improve a meat hash. 
When only the yolk of the egg is used, the white can be kept in a cup 
or glass, covered with a damp cloth fastened with an elastic band ; or, 
if only the white is used, the yolk can be kept in the same way. 

80 



HOW TO USE LEFT-OVERS 

LEFT-OVER CEREALS — Cereals are improved by long cooking. 
Therefore, oatmeal, hominy and other cereals which are left over can be 
added next day to the fresh-cooked cereal. Left-over cereal may be 
molded cold with fruit, or it may be used in making pancakes, muffins 
and puddings, and also to make gruels for invalids. Cold hominy and 
mush may be cut into squares and fried so that a crisp crust is formed 
on both sides. This makes an excellent vegetable or breakfast dish. 
Cold hominy or farina ma\- l)e rolled into balls and fried and used in the 
same way. Cold rice may be added to stnip, made into croquettes, used 
in a scalloped dish, or it may be mixed with minced meat and egg and 
fried like an omelet. 

STALE BREAD— Small bits of stale bread may be slowly dried in 
the ()\en until cris]^ and l)ritt]e, then ground in a meat-chopper or rolled. 
These bread crumbs should be kept in a covered jar, and can be used 
for frying croquettes, etc. Larger pieces of stale bread may be eaten 
with SOU]) in place of crackers, or used to make croutons for soup. 
(Croutons are little squares of bread fried in fat. They are usually 
served with pea, bean and cream soups.) Small pieces and broken 
slices of stale bread may be used for stuffing, for griddle cakes, bread 
omelet and puddings. 

CHEESE — All the little dried pieces of cheese should be grated and 
put in a covered glass jar. These cheese-crumbs are excellent for many 
made-over dishes, and are particularly good with starchy foods, such as 
potatoes, macaroni, rice, etc. 

SOUR MILK OR CREAM— Xo sour milk or cream should be 
Avasted. Put it into an earthen or glass jar, little by little, until you 
have half a cup or a cu])ful. As soon as it thickens, use it for cottage 
cheese, griddle cakes, biscuits, cornbread or gingerbread. 

FRUIT — Any fresh fruit that has become soft should be cooked at 
once, with a little sugar added, to make a sauce for puddings, or it can 
be made into jelly. Any left-over canned fruit may be rubbed through 
a sieve and used for a sauce. 

LEARN TO SAVE MONEY BY AVOIDING WASTE. 



81 



LEFT-OVER MEAT RECIPES 

Do not reheat left-OACr cooked meat for a lung time at a great heat, 
as this will make the meat tough. 

Left-over cooked meat will be much more palatable if highly 
seasoned. 

Left-over beef, lamb, mutton and veal are excellent for h.ash, scal- 
loped dishes, croquettes, a loaf, and salads. 

Left-over beef, lamb or mutton make excellent stews, with the addi- 
tion of any left-over vegetables. Any left-over meat, vegetables and 
gTavy may be used to make a meat pie. 

A left-over ham bone will greatly improve the flavor of pea or bean 
soup. 

Any kind of cold meat may be chopped and used in an omelet or, 
combined with rice and tomatoes, used for a scalloped dish. 

WARMED-OVER BEEF. Alelt two tablespoons of drippings, 
add two tablespoons hour, and pour on, gradually, one-half cup stewed 
and strained tomatoes or canned tomato pulp and one-fourth cup stock 
or water. Season with one-half teaspoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon 
paprika, and a few drops onion juice. Add one cup rare cooked chopped 
beef; cook one minute, and serve. 

SCALLOPED BEEF. Chop sufficient cold cooked beef to make 
one pint; season with a teaspoon of salt, a tablespoon of chopped 
parsley and a dash of pepper. Put this in the bottom of a baking-dish. 
Crush six Uneeda biscuits, pour over them a half pint of milk, let them 
stand a minute or two, add one egg, well beaten, a half teaspoon of 
salt and a half teaspoon of pepper. Pour this over the beef and bake in a 
moderate oven twenty minutes to a half hour. 

Other meats may be substituted for beef. 

BEEF LOAF (of Cold Beef). Soak one tablespoon of gelatine 
in one-half cup of cold water ten minutes. Then heat a cjuarter of a cup 
of well-seasoned stewed tomatoes or canned tomato pulp to boiling, and 
pour over gelatine, stirring well until gelative is dissolved. Have ready 
two cups of chopped and seasoned meat mixed with one tablespoon 
of lemon juice and one small sour pickle minced fine. Stir tomato into 
meat mixture and mould in an earthen dish. Let stand in mould until 
jelly is stiff. Serve cold. (Equally good for Lamb or Mutton.) 

FIRE ISLAND STEW. Melt two tablespoons of drippings; add 
one small onion and cook together until very slightly browned. To 
this add one and one-half cups of stewed tomatoes or canned tomato 
pulp and let boil slowly for about 15 minutes or until tomatoes are some- 
what thickened. Then add one and one-half cups of cooked macaroni 
and let all cook together, until well thickened. Just before the dinner 
hour, put into saucepan one and one-half to two cups of remnants of 

82 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

tender roast beef, cut small, and thoroughly heat. Do not let the stew 
boil after the meat is added. 

SCALLOP OF ROAST BEEF WITH COOKED RICE. Season 
the rice with one teaspoon of drippings *to each cup of rice used and 
put a layer in a baking-dish. Cover with cold roast beef chopped not too 
fine, then a layer of sliced tomatoes, stew^ed tomatoes or canned tomato 
pulp seasoned w^ell with salt and pepper and dots of butter. Repeat 
until the dish is nearly filled, and cover with bread crumbs. Brown 
lightly in oven. 

BEEF FRITTERS. Chop sufficient cold cooked beef to make one 
pint; add to it a teaspoon of salt, and a quarter of a teaspoon of 
pepper. Beat two eggs until light, add to them a half pint of water or 
stock; stir into this one and a half cups of flour, beat until smooth; then 
add a teaspoon of baking-powder and the meat. Mix well and drop 
by spoonfuls into smoking hot, deep fat ; cook about three minutes, drain 
on brown paper, and serve with tomato sauce. 

BEEF CROQUETTES. Take cold roast or corned beef. Put it 
into a wooden bowl and chop it fine. Mix with it about twice the 
([uantity of hot mashed potatoes or boiled rice, well seasoned with butter 
or drippings and salt. Beat up an egg and work it into the potato or 
rice and meat, then form the mixture into little cakes the size of fish 
balls. Flatten them a little : roll in flour or egg and cracker crumbs, fry 
in hot fat, browning on both sides. Serve piping hot. Almost any cold 
meat can be used instead of beef. 

BEEF CROQUETTES MADE FROM SOUP MEAT. Chop 
the meat very fine. Season highly with salt, pepper and celery salt. Add 
a little grated nutmeg if desired. To two cups of the chopped meat add 
one beaten egg and moisten with enough tomato sauce to shape into 
croquettes. Roll in egg and crumbs and fry in smoking hot deep fat. 
Serve with hot tomato sauce. 

SOUP MEAT SALAD. Cut beef that has been boiled for soup 
into half-inch dice; season with onion juice. Mix lightly with some cold 
boiled potatoes cut into half-inch dice, and some parsley chopped fine. 
Pour over it a French dressing, or mayonnaise. Garnish with hard- 
boiled eggs and lettuce. 

MEAT AND POTATO CROQUETTES. Put in a stew-pan 2 
tablespoons of drippings and a slice of onion minced fine ; when 
this simmers add a level teaspoon of sifted flour ; stir the mixture until 
it becomes smooth ; then add half a cup of milk and season with salt and 
pepper; let it come to a boil, stirring it all the while. Now' add a cup of 
cold meat chopped fine, and a cup of cold or hot mashed potato. Mix 
all thoroughly and spread on a plate to cool. When cool, shape into balls 
or rolls. Dip them in beaten egg and roll in cracker or bread crumbs. 
Drop into smoking hot deep fat and fry about two minutes until a 
delicate brown ; take them out with a skimmer and drain on a piece of 
brown paper. Ser\e immediately while hot. Cold rice or hominy may 

83 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

be used in place of the potato ; or a cuj) of cold fish, minced fine, may be 
used in place of meat. 

BAKED HASH. 

1 pint of chopped cooked meat K' pint of gravy or water 

1 pint of chopped raw pota- 1 tablespoon of melted drippinps 
toes ■ Salt and pepper to taste 

Mix all the ingredients together, turn into a mould and bake in a 
moderate oven one hour. 

FRICANDELLES. 

2 cups of left-over meat, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 
chopped fine 1 teaspoon onion juice 

2 tablespoons bread crumbs 1 raw egg 

or 1 cup mashed potatoes Salt and pepper to taste 

Mix ingredients, pat into round flat cakes, and fry in hot fat 
until brown. Serve with brown gra\y, to which has been added a few 
drops of Worcestershire Sauce. 

MEAT PIE. Combine any left-over meat and vegetables and put 
into a baking-dish. Over this pour any gravy 3'ou may have. 1 hen 
make a biscuit crust and place it over the top of the baking-dish. Put 
in oven and bake until the crust is l^'cnvn. 

Biscuit Crust. 

1 cup Hour Enough milk to make a soft 

2 teaspoons baking-powder dough (about }4 to Yi cup) 

y2 teaspoon salt 4 level teaspoons butter or but- 

ter substitute 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Then rub in the butter or but- 
ter substitute until the mixture looks like meal. Add milk gradually. 
When all is moistened, turn out on to a fioured board ; roll out to about 
one-fourth inch in thickness and spread over the top of the dish. 

COTTAGE PIE. 

1 cup chopped meat Vi cu]) hot milk 

1 cup hot water or grav}^ 1 tablespoon of drippings 

2 cups hot mashed potato Few grains celery salt 
3/2 teaspoon salt y% teaspoon pepper 

Put meat in an earthen dish, add salt and pepper to taste, and the 
hot water. Mix the remaining ingredients with the mashed potato, and 
spread on top of meat ; bake in hot oven until potato is brown. 

PRESSED MEAT. 

1 quart of cold, cooked meat, 1 teaspoon of allspice 
chopped fine )/\ teaspoon of mace 

Yi. teaspoon cloves 1 cup of boiling stock 

54 teaspoon of black pepper Salt to taste 

1 teaspoon of cinnamon 

Mix all the ingredients together, then press into a square mould and 

84 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

stand in a cold place to cool. When cold, turn it from the mould, cut it 
into slices, and serve. For this you can use any meat left from soups. 

SOUR HASH. Make a brown gravy ; add to it about two teaspoons 
of vinegar, a few drops of Kitchen Bouquet, and a piece of bay-leaf. Salt 
and pepper to taste. (These proportions will be about right for one and 
one-half cup gravy.) Cut cold meat in one-half-inch cubes and cook 
slowly in the graAy for half an hour. If too sour, add a little sugar. 

BROWNED HASH. Mix with cooked meat, chopped fine, half as 
much mashed potatoes and any or all of the following "left-over" vegeta- 
bles : Corn, string-beans, stewed tomatoes, onions, carrots, celery or 
cabbage — all chopped tine. Put some fat into a heavy iron pan, and wher 
it is smoking hot, spread the mixture over it. Let it heat and brown 
slowly. Then fold it over and serve on a warm platter with poached 
eggs on top. or with tomato sauce, with some green and red sweet pep- 
pers cooked in it. 

SHEPHERD'S PIE. 

1 pound of cold mutton 1 tablespoon of fat 

1 pint of cold boiled potatoes . Y^. cup of stock of water 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

The Crust. 

4 good-sized potatoes ^4 cup of milk 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Cut the mutton and boiled potatoes into pieces about one inch 
square ; put them in a deep pie or baking-dish, add the stock or water, 
salt, pepper, and half the fat cut into small bits. Then make the crust as 
follows : Pare and boil the potatoes, then mash them, add the milk, the 
remainder of the fat, salt and pepper. Beat until light. Now add flour 
enough to make a soft dough — about one cupful. Roll it out into a 
sheet, make a hole in the center of the crust, to allow the escape of 
steam. Bake in a moderate oven one hour, serve in the same dish. 

SCALLOPED MUTTON. 

2 cups tomato sauce or canned 1 cup cracker crumbs 
tomato pulp 2 tablespoons melted fat 

1 cup cooked macaroni Salt and pepper 

2 cups mutton cut in cubes 

Arrange the macaroni, mutton, and tomato sauce in layers, sprinkle 
each layer" with salt and pepper, and cover the top with the cracker 
crumbs which have been mixed with the fat ; bake in a moderate oven 
until the crumbs are brown. 

SCRAMBLED MUTTON. 

2 cups cold mutton, chopped 1 tablespoon of drippings 

2 tablespoons hot water 3 eggs 

Pepper and salt. 

85 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

Add the meat to the hot water and drippings. When the meat is 
hot, break in the eggs and stir constantly until the eggs begni to stiffen. 
Season with pepper and salt. 

CURRY OF MUTTON. 

1 pint of finely chopped mutton ^6 cup of rice 

1 tablespoon of drippings 1 tablespoon curry-powder 

1 tablespoon of fiour 2 quarts boiling water 

Salt to taste 
Wash the rice and put it in the boiling water ; let it boil thirt3'-five 
minutes. Drain in a colander. Now put the drippings in a frying-pan ; 
when melted, add the flour and stir until smooth ; add a half-pint of 
boiling water ; let boil up once, then add meat, curry ind salt. Stir ten 
minutes. Now heap it in the center of a meat dish, and put the rice 
around, in a border. Brush all over with beaten egg, and place in the 
oven a few minutes to brown 

HASHED MUTTON. Cook two tablespoons drippings with one 
tablespoon finely chopped onion, five minutes. Add two tablespoons 
flour, and pour on gradually, one cup stock. Add one cup cold chopped, 
cooked mutton, one-half cup cold, boiled potatoes, cut in dice, and one 
tomato, skinned and cut in small pieces or a little canned tomato pulp. 
Season with salt, pepper, and celery salt ; cover and cook in double 
boiler for ten minutes. 

MUTTON OR LAMB CROQUETTES. 

2 cups finely chopped meat 1 cup cooked rice 

1 tablespoon chopped capers 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 cup white sauc? Salt and pepper 

Mix all together and set away to get cold. When ready to form, 
take up by full tablespoonfuls and shape into cylinders. Roll gently m 
finely sifted white bread crumbs, then in egg (slightly beaten with one 
tablespoon of cold water), being careful that every part of the cro- 
quette is covered with egg and then again in crumbs. Fry lightly in 
smoking hot deep fat. 

ORIENTAL STEW. Simmer gently together 

2 cups cold lamb or mutton, cut 1 chopped onion 

in cubes 2 small cold potatoes s.'ced 

1 cup of water 1 cup of cooked peas oi cooked 

2 tablespoons of butter or drip- string beans chopped 
pings ^ cup rice 

Season with salt, pepper and a very little curry powder, if liked. 
While stew is heating boil one-half cup of rice. AX'hen tender, put into 
hot vegetable dish hollow out the center and fill with the stew. Serve 
at once. 

LAMB (TURKISH STYLE). Brown a small onion and one-third 

of a cup of rice in butler or dri])pings. Add one cup of stewed tomatoes 
or canned tomato pulp, one cup of lamb or mutton cut in squares, four 

86 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

tablespoons of minced carrot, one teaspoon of Imrscradish. sail anvl 
pepper to taste. Alake qnite moist with gravy or hot water. Cover 
closely and simmer until the rice is soft and the \\;iter ahsorbcd. Serve 
on hot platter. 

MINCED LAMB. Chop remnants of cold roast lamb : there should 
be one cup. Put two tablespoons drippings in hot saucepan, add lamb, 
sprinkle with salt, pepper and celery salt, and dredge thoroughly with 
flour: then add enough stock or water to moisten. Serve on small slices 
of toast. 

ROAST LAMB OR BEEF REHEATED. In warming up a leg 
of lamb or standing rib roast of beef, heap up the cavity left after carving 
with mashed potato. Brush over with melted drippings and brown in 
oven. 

VEAL CROQUETTES. Cut one pint cooked veal in small pieces: 
add one tablespoon salt, one-cjuarter teaspoon pepper, one tablespoon 
lemon juice. Melt three tablespoons fat; add two tablespoons finely 
minced onion, three tablespoons ilour, and three-fourths cup milk or veal 
stock. Boil five minutes. Add two eggs well beaten. Stir constantly 
until thick. Mix with veal mixture and cool. Shape, allowing a round- 
ing tablespoonful for each croquette. Dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, 
and fry -in smoking hot deep fat. Serve with or without AA'hite Sauce. 

HASH BALLS. Chop cold cooked, corned beef from which the 
skin, gristle, and most of the fat have been removed. Add an equal 
quantity of cold boiled potatoes, chopped and seasoned with salt, pepper 
and onion juice. Moisten with milk, make into small flat cakes, and 
fry in hot fat. Rice can be used in place of potatoes. Brown on one side, 
turn and brown other side. 

WARMED-OVER BAKED BEANS. Put into a hot frying-pan 
some of the pork cooked with the beans. When the fat has melted and 
is hot, pour in the beans, cover and set pan back on stove, when beans 
will cook slowly and brown underneath. Fold over like an omelet ; turn 
out on a hot platter and serve with tomato sauce. 

CROQUETTES OF ODDS AND ENDS. These are made of any 
scraps or bits of food left from one or more meals. Any left-over food 
should be well chopped and creamed, mixed with one raw egg, a little 
flour and butter or drippings, and boiling water, then made into cakes 
and fried in smoking hot deep fat. 

LEFT-OVER POULTRY RECIPES 

Left-over chicken or turkey makes excellent hash, scalloped dishes, 
croquettes, cream dishes, and salads. 

The carcass of a chicken or a turkey makes a splendid soup. 

Stuffing left from chicken or turkey may be sliced thin, browned in 
the oven, and served on toast. 

87 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

CREAMED CHICKEN HASH ON TOAST. This is one of the 
tastiest of all the warmed-over chicken dishes. Chop the chicken fine, 
and to each pint allow one tablespoonful of butter or drippings, one of 
flour and a half pint of milk. Rub the butter or drippings and flour 
together, add the milk, stir over the fire until boiling; season the meat 
with a teaspoon of salt and a dash of pepper, add to the milk sauce, and 
cook in double boiler for fifteen minutes. Heap this on squares of nicely 
toasted bread and serve at once. 

MINCED CHICKEN WITH GREEN PEPPERS. Boil two green 
peppers ten minutes, remove seeds, and cut in small strips ; mix with two 
cups cooked fowl, cut in dice. Melt three tablespoons dripping, add three 
tablespoons flour, and pour on gradually one and one-third cups chicken 
stock. Add chicken and peppers. Season with salt and pepper, and serve 
on pieces of toast. 

CREAMED CHICKEN AND PEAS. Melt two tablespoons butter 
or drippings, add three tablespoons flour, mixed with one-fourth teaspoon 
salt and one-eighth teaspoon pepper. Pour on gradually one and three- 
fourths cups milk, ^^'hen sauce thickens, add one and one-half cups 
cold boiled fowl, cut in dice, and two-thirds cup left-over peas. Cook 
for about two minutes. 

CHICKEN WITH TOMATOES. Cook four tablespoons drippings 
with one-quarter of a small onion, finely chopped, five minutes. Add five 
tablespoons flour, and stir until slightly browned. Pour on, gradually, 
three-fourths cup each chicken stock and stewed and strained tomatoes 
or canned tomato pulp. Add one teaspoon lemon juice, one-half teaspoon 
salt, and one-eighth teaspoon paprika. Add one and one-half cups cold 
boiled fowl, cut in cubes. Cook for about two minutes. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. Make a white sauce. Chop chicken 
fine and season with salt, pepper, and a few drops of onion juice. Put 
into hot sauce all the seasoned chicken it will take up, about two cups of 
chicken to one of sauce. Cool. Shape into croquettes ; roll in bread 
crumbs, then in egg (which has been slightly beaten together with one 
tablespoon of cold water), then in crumbs again. Fry in smoking hot 
deep fat, and serve with white sauce. \>al or fresh pork may be used in 
same way. 

CHICKEN CUSTARD. When boiling a fowl for salad or other pur- 
poses, take a pint of the broth. Season as needed with salt and a little 
pepper. Heat and pour very slowly over two eggs that have been slightly 
beaten. Cook in a double boiler until the mixture thickens. Pour into 
small cups that have been rinsed with cold water, and set away to chill. 
This makes a good relish for invalids. 

SCALLOP OF CHICKEN OR TURKEY WITH CELERY. Cook 
one cup of celery, cut in inch pieces, in boiling slightly salted water until 
tender. Save the water to make sauce. Slice thin two cups of cold 
chicken, discarding all skin; season with salt and pepper, and moisten 
with a little left-over gravy. Melt two tablespoons of butter or drip- 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

pings, stir in two tablespoons of flour, and add slowly one cup of celery 
water, one-half cup of milk, one-quarter teaspoon of salt, and a little 
pepper. When thickened and smooth, stir in the cooked celery. Put a 
few crumbs in a baking-dish and arrange the chicken and sauce in alter- 
nate layers. Cover with crumbs. Brown in a hot oven. 

CHICKEN OR TURKEY HASH. 

Ij-^ cups cold chopped }^ cup boiled potato, cut in small 

chicken pieces, or ^ cup rice 

/2 to Ys cup chicken gravy 
Mix together, season highly, and moisten with the chicken gravy. 
Grease a baking-dish ; put in the mixture, covering the top with crumbs. 
Bake for about fifteen minutes in a hot oven. 

TURKEY WARMED OVER. Pieces of cold turkey or chicken 
may be warmed up with a little dripping in a fr3nng-pan. Place it on a 
warm platter, surround it with pieces of small thick slices of bread, first 
dipping them in hot salted water ; then place the platter in a warm oven 
with the door open. Have ready the following gravy to pour over all : 
Into the frying-pan put one or two cups of milk, and any gravy that 
may be left over. Bring it to a boil ; then add sufficient flour, wet in a 
little cold milk or water, to make it the consistency of cream. Season 
with salt, pepper, and add a little of the dark meat chopped fine. Let 
the sauce cook a few moments ; then pour over the turkey. 

LEFT-OVER FISH RECIPES 

Any left-over fish can l)e used for creamed dishes, croquettes, fish 
pudding and scalloped dishes. See pages 45, 46, 47. 

LEFT-OVER VEGETABLE RECIPES 

Any left-over vegetables may be used for flavoring soup ; also for 
making creamed soups, scalloped dishes, and hash. 

A number of vegetables may be mixed together and used for a salad. 

Peas, tomatoes, or beans may be put in an omelette. 

Vegetables are not hurt by reheating. 

The coarse stalks and roots of celery make a good vegetable dish 
when cut in pieces and boiled and served with a cream sauce. They also 
make a good cream of celery soup. 

The leaves of celery are valuable in the soup for flavoring. Any 
left-over celery leaves can be dried out in a lukewarm oven, put into a 
glass jar, and kept for flavoring soups, sauces, etc. 

Any left-over parsley can be dried out in the same manner and used 
for the same purpose. 

Limp lettuce leaves may be shredded with a scissors and used in any 
kind of salad. 

89 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

STUFFED POTATOES. P.akcd potatoes that are left over must 
be made into stuffed potatoes before they are heavy and cold. .\t the 
close of the meal at which they were first served, cut the potatoes directly 
into halves, scoop out the inside portion, put it through an ordinary 
vegetable press, or mash it fine ; add a little butter, salt, pepper and suf- 
ficient milk to make a light mixture; stand this over hot water and beat 
until light and smooth. Put it back into the shells, and stand them 
aside in a cold place. When ready to serve, brush the top with beaten 
egg and run them into a quick oven until hot and golden brown. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. Sec page 59. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. Cold mashed potatoes may be made 
into croquettes by adding to each jMut four tablespoons of heated milk, 
the yolks of two eggs, a tablespoon of cho])ped parsley, a teaspoon of 
grated onion, a cpiarter of a teaspoon of pepper ; stir o\er the fire until 
the mixture is thoroughly heated ; form into cylinder-shaped croquettes, 
dip in egg and rolled l>read crumbs and fry in smoking hot deep fat. 

VEGETABLE BROWNED HASH. See page 66. 

CURRIED VEGETABLES. Have previously prepared one cup 
boiled potato, cut in dice, one cup boiled carrots, cut in dice, one-half 
cup boiled turnips, cut in dice, and one-half cup left-over peas. Cook 
two slices onion in three tablespoons drippings five minutes. Remove 
onion, and add three tablespocnis Hour, one teaspoon curry-powder, one 
teaspoon salt, one-fourth teaspoon celery salt, one-fourth teaspoon pej)- 
per, and one and one-half cui'>s milk. Stir until sme>oth, then reheat 
vegetables in sauce. 

LEFT-OVER TOMATOES. A half cup of stewed tomatoes or 
canned tomato pulp may be used with stock for brown tomato sauce, 
or for making a small dish of scalloi)ed tomatoes, helping out at lunch 
when perhaps the family is less in number. The Italians boil down this 
half cup of tomatoes until it has the consistenc}' of dough ; then press 
through a sieve, add a little salt, pack down int»^ a jelly tumbler and 
stand in the refrigerator to use as flavoring. .\ tablesi^oonful in a soup, 
or in an ordinary sauce, or mixed with the water for baked beans, or 
added to the stock sauce for spaghetti ov macaroni, adds greatlv to the 
flavor as well as apjiearancc. 

TOMATO PASTE. When tomatoes are very plentiful and the 
supply is greater than the immediate need, it is a good plan to make a 
paste, which will keep for some time in a cool place. Wash and scald 
tomatoes. Strain through a fine sieve, and boil until thick. Put in glass 
jars. This will be t'ound very useful in flavoring soups and sauces. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. See page 65. 

SPINACH WITH BAKED EGGS. Form any cold, well-sea- 
sonetl spinach into a neat border on buttered toast. .\ full tablespoon- 
ful will answer for each piece of toast. Break an egg in the center of 
each mound. Season, sprinkle very lightly with buttered crumbs. Bake 
in the o\en until the eggs are "set." 

90 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

CARROT CROQUETTES. 

1 cup cooked carrots 1 cup white sauce 

1 cup cooked peas 1 egg- 

Salt and pepper 

Press carrots and ])eas througli a sieve. Add seasoniiig, unbeaten 
egg, wliite sauce; set away to chid. Form into croquettes, roll in 
crumbs and Qgg. and fry in smirking hot deep fat. 

BEETS PRINCESS. 

1 tablespoon butter 14 cup water 

2 tablespoons vinegar 

Combine these in the order given and bring to a boil. Then add 
one teaspoon corn-starch moistened with cold water. Cook until clear. 
This makes a transparent sauce for warmed-over beets. 

CREAMED BEETS. Any left-over beets that have been served 
with butter and no vinegar may be creamed. Chop them coarse, and 
to each cup of beets allow one cup of white sauce. 

PARSNIP CAKES. Use left-over boiled buttered parsnips for 
making these cakes. Mash, and season with salt and pepper, make into 
tiat, round cakes, dip in tiour, and fry in hot melted drippings or butter. 

CELERY TOAST. Take the outer and less tender stalks of 
celery that are often thrown away, cut them into one-half-inch pieces 
and cook in slightly salted water until tender. Drain and use one-half 
cup of this water and one-half cup of milk to make a white sauce. Add 
the celery to the sauce and pour over slices of nicely browned and but- 
tered toast. Serve very hot. 

CREAMED SOUPS FROM LEFT-OVER VEGETABLES. 

See page 19. 

LEFT OVER EGG RECIPES 

Save your egg shells and use them to clear soups, coffee and jelly. 

Dry out the egg shells; then crush them and keep them in a cov- 
ered glass jar until ready to be used. 

Any left-over poached or soft-cooked eggs may be returned to the 
hot water and cooked until hard. They can then be chopped and used 
with left-over meat or hsh dishes. 

Any left-over fried eggs, pieces of omelet or scrambled eggs will 
improve a meat hash. 

When onlv the yoke of the egg is used, the white can be kept in a 
cup or glass, covered with a damp cloth, fastened with an elastic band ; 
or, if only the white is used, the yolk can be kept in the same way. The 
whites of eggs may be used for apple float and for meringue for pud- 
dings or pies. The yolks of eggs may be used for scrambled eggs, 
custard, and omelet. 

91 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

EGG CROQUETTES. Put five hard-boiled eggs through a vege- 
table press, or chopper. Put oue tablespoon of butter or butter sub- 
stitute and two of flour into a saucepan, add a half pint of milk, stir until 
boiling, add a half cup of stale, unbrowned bread crumbs, a teaspoon of 
salt, a tablespoon of chopped parsley, a dash of pepper and a half tea- 
spoon of onion juice ; add the eggs, mix and turn out to cool. When cold 
form into cutlets, dip in egg and then in bread crumbs and fry in smok- 
ing hot deep fat. Serve with plain cream sauce. These with peas make 
an exceedingly nice dish. 

COLD BACON AND EGGS. An economical way of using bacon 
and eggs that ha\c been left from a previous meal is to put them in a 
wooden bowl and chop them quite fine, adding a little mashed or cold 
chopped potato, and a little bacon, if any is left. Mix and mould into 
little balls, roll in raw egg and cracker or bread crumbs, and fry iji a 
frying-pan ; fry a light brown on both sides. Serve hot. This makes 
a very appetizing dish. 

FLOATING ISLAND (using up whites of eggs). P.eat up whites 
of eggs until stitf : gradually beat in a very little powdered sugar and 
drop large spoonfuls in hot milk in frying-pan. Dip milk over egg, that 
it ma}' cook slightly. Take up in a skimmer and drain. Serve on soft 
custard with a bit of jelly on top of each spoonful. 

APPLE FLOAT. To each cup of left-over apple sauce add the 
well-beaten white of one egg. The whites must be beaten until per- 
fectly stiff and dry. Then whip apple sauce and egg together with an 
egg-whisk until thoroughly mixed. Serve ice cold. 

MERINGUE. One-half tablespoon powdered sugar to each white 
of egg. Beat the whites till frothy, add the powdered sugar gradually 
and continue beating. When stiff' enough to hold its sh^pe, heap the 
lueringue over the pudding. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS (using up yolks of eggs). 

3 yolks 1 large tablespoon bacon (cut in 

Dash cayenne bits) 

Dried bread or toast Yi cup milk 

y'l tablespoon butter 

Prepare crisp dry toast, or use oven-dried slices of bread if on hand. 
r)eat eggs slightly, add milk and bacon. Melt butter i?i hot omelet pan: 
add the egg mixture, and cook lightly, holding pan up from intense 
heat. Have hot milk ready in saucepan, dip slices of bread or toast 
quickly in it. put on hot platter, and pour scrambled eggs over all. 

SOFT CUSTARD (using up yolks of eggs). 

1 pint milk 3 tablespoons sugar 

3 yolks of eggs Yi teaspoon vanilla or 

Few grains salt A piece of lemon rind 

Scald milk with lemon rind, beat yolks, sugar and salt together. 
Combine by pouring" hot inilk gradually on yolks and sugar, stirring 
meanwhile. Strain mixture into double boiler and cook until thickened 

92 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

sHo:htIy. Remove at once from double boiler and coo!. Tf vaniila 
Havoring is preferred, add when custard is cold, and omit the lemon 
rind. 

LEFTOVER CEREAL RECIPES 

Cereals are improved by long- cooking. Therefore, oatmeal, hom- 
iny, and other cereals which are left over can be added next dav to the 
fresh-cooked cereal. 

Left-over cereal can be moulded cold v^^ith fruit or it can be used 
in making- pancakes, muffins and puddings, and also to make gruels 
for invalids. 

Cold hominy and mush may be cut into squares and fried so that 
a crisp crust is formed on both sides. This makes an excellent vege- 
table or breakfast dish. 

Cold hominy or farina may be rolled into balls and fried and used 
in the same way. 

Cold rice may be added to soup, made into croquettes, used in a 
scalloped dish, or it may be mixed with minced meat and egg and fried 
like an omelet. 

Cold boiled rice left over may be mixed with a small quan- 
tity of meat, and used for stuffing tomatoes or eggplant or it may 
be reheated or made into pudding, or added to the muffins for lunch, 
or added to the corn-bread. 

A cup of left-over oatmeal or cracked wheat or wheatlet may also 
be added to the muffins or ordinary- yeast or corn-breads. These little 
additions increase the food value, make the mixture lighter, and save 
waste. 

A few spoons of left-over rice, hominy, macaroni, or potato mixed 
with a little chopped meat or fish and a few spoonfuls of gravy or white 
sauce to moisten it may be put in a baking-dish, covered with bread 
crimibs, and baked in the oven. 

RICE MUFFINS. See page 28. 

FARINA GEMS. 

2 eggs 1 cup of fiour 

1 cup of milk 4 level teaspoons of baking- 

1 cup cold boiled farina powder 

Yi teaspoon of salt 

Separate the eggs, add the milk and stir this, gradually, into the 
cold farina. \\'heii" smooth add the salt, baking-powder and fiour, 
mixed. Beat, and then add the well-beaten whites of eggs. Bake in 
gem pans in a quick oven a half hour. 

TO FRESHEN UP RICE OR BREAD PUDDINGS. Remove 

crust from vesterdav's pudding and turn the pudding into smaller dish. 
Add hot m'ilk and '(to a bread-pudding) fresh crumbs for top, dotted 

93 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

over with butter. Bake again. Rice pudding ma}^ be reheated with 
hot milk, or if to be served cold, covered with a meringue flavored with 
lemon juice and browned. 

RICE CROQUETTES. To make cold boiled rice into croquettes, 
the rice must be reheated in a double boiler with Yi cup of milk and the 
yolk of an t^% to each cup ; you may season with sugar and lemon or 
salt and pepper, and serve as a vegetable. Form into cylinder-shaped 
croquettes : dip in ^^2, and bread crumbs, and fry in smoking hot deep 
fat. 

SIMPLE RICE PUDDING. See page 75. 

PLAIN FARINA PUDDING. 

2 cups milk 1 cup left-over farina or cream 

1/^ cups of sugar of wheat 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon of vanilla 

Put the milk in a double boiler, add the sugar and the cold left-over 
farina. Stir until thoroughly hot, then add the eggs, well beaten, and 
the vanilla. Turn into a baking-dish and put in the oven until brown. 
Serve cold, with milk or cream. 

APPLE FARINA PUDDING. Pour the left-over breakfast por- 
ridge into a square mould and stand it aside. At luncheon or dinner 
time cut this into thin slices, cover the bottom of a baking-dish with 
these slices, and cover these with sliced apples, and so continue until 
you have the ingredients used, having the last layer apples. Beat an 
^gg. without separating, until light, add a half cup of milk and a half 
teaspoon of salt, then stir in a half cup of flour, ^^^hen smooth pour 
this over the apples and bake in a quick oven a half hour. Serve with 
milk or with hard sauce. 

OATMEAL OR HOMINY MUFFINS. 

1 cup cooked oatmeal or cooked 4 teaspoons baking-powder 
hominy ^ teaspoon salt 

XYz cups flour y2 cup of milk 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 egg 

2 tablespoons melted butter or drippings 
Mix and sift flour, sugar, salt and baking-powder ; add one-half of 
the milk, the (t^^ well beaten, the remainder of the milk mixed with 
oatmeal or hominy, and beat thoroughly; then add butter or drippings. 
Bake in greased muffin-rings placed in greased pan or bake in greased 
gem pans. 

CORN-MEAL MUFFINS. See page 72. 

CEREAL MOLDED WITH FRUIT. See page 7Z. 

CEREAL PANCAKES. See page 7}>. 

SHREDDED WHEAT GRUEL. 

2 shredded wheat biscuits 1 quart boiling water 

2 teaspoons salt 2 cups milk 

94 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

Cook biscuit, salt and water together for 20 minutes, stirrin.g occa- 
sionally. Then add the milk and strain. 

OATMEAL GRUEL. See page 72. 

STALE-BREAD RECIPES 

Small bits of stale bread may be slowly dried in the oven until crisp 
and brittle, then ground in a meat chopper or rolled. These bread 
crumbs should be kept in a covered glass jar and may be used for fry- 
ing croquettes, etc. 

Larger pieces of stale bread may be eaten with soup in place of 
crackers, or used to make croutons for soup (croutons are little squares 
of bread fried in fat. They are usually served with pea, bean and 
creamed soups). 

Small pieces and broken slices of stale bread may be used for stuff- 
ing, for griddle cakes, bread omelet and puddings. 

BREAD MUFFINS. Cover a quart of bits of bread that have 
been broken apart, with one pint of milk ; soak for fifteen minutes, then 
with a spoon beat until you have a smooth paste ; add the yolks of three 
eggs, a tablespoon of melted drippings and one cup of flour that has 
been sifted wdth a heaping teaspoon of baking-powder. Mix in carefully 
the well-beaten whites of the eggs, and bake in mufifin-pans in a quick 
oven about twenty minutes. 

BREAD CROQUETTES. Rub sufificient stale bread to make one 
quart of crumbs ; add four tablespoons of sugar, a half cup of cleaned 
currants, or any fruit that you have left over, and a grating of nutmeg; 
sprinkle a teaspoon of vanilla over this and add sufficient beaten eggs 
(about three) to moisten the crumbs. Form into small cylinder-shaped 
croquettes, dip in ^^% and roll in bread crumbs and fry in smoking hot 
deep fat. Serve hot with sugar syrup. 

BREAD OMELET. See page 18. 

BREAD CEREAL. Dry bread in the oven until crisp and brown. 
Roll on board, or put through meat grinder, having crumbs coarse. 
Serve warm as a breakfast food with milk or cream. 

BREAD STICKS. Remove crusts from any slices of stale bread 
and cut in strips about five inches long and one-half inch wide. Fry in 
smoking h(^t deep fat. These can be served with cheese instead of 
crackers. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

3 eggs 2 tablespoons butter 

2 cups bread crumbs 1 quart milk 

Yi teaspoon cinnamon Y^. teaspoon salt 

Y2 cup raisins Little nutmeg 
Scald milk. Add butter and bread crumbs. Beat eggs light and 

95 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

add ^^•^th salt and spice to l)read mixture. Bake in moderate oven 
about an hour. 

BROWN BETTY. Place alternate layers of chopped apples and 
stale bread crumbs in buttered baking-dish, having crumbs on bottom. 
Add cinnamon and sugar to each layer of apples, using more sugar if 
apples are sour. The top layer should be buttered bread crumbs. Bake 
in moderate oven until crumbs are l^rown. 

BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES (with sour milk). Use equal quan- 
tities of sour milk and small broken pieces of bread. Mix and let stand, 
covered, overnight. When ready to use, put through colander. For 
each pint of mixture use one egg, one teaspoon of soda, one teaspoon 
of sugar, yi teaspoon salt and about ^ of a cup of sifted flour. Tt is 
always Avell to bake a small cake first, that any lack in ingredients may 
be remedied at once. An extra yolk or small amount of uncooked egg 
may be added if at hand. Bake on hot griddle. 

FRIED BREAD. To an egg, well beaten, add one cuj) of milk, or a 
little water. Dip pieces of stale bread in this and then fr}- them in but- 
ter or drippings. 

STALE CAKE 

STALE CAKE WITH CUSTARD, ^^foisteu with lemon juice 
enough stale cake to cover the bottom of a glass dish holding a quart. 
Make a soft custard by scalding two cups of milk and pouring it slowly 
upon two beaten egg yolks, mixed with three tablespoons of sugar, one 
teaspoon of butter, and a little salt. Cook in a double boiler until thick- 
ened. Strain and when partly cool add one-half teaspoon of vanilla, and 
pour over the cake. When ready to serve, beat the whites to a stiff froth, 
adding one tablespoon of sugar and a little lemon juice while beating. 
Drop lightly, by spoonfuls, on top of the custard and put a few bits of 
jelly on the meringue. 

TRIFLE. Cut stale cake into slices and spread preserves between 
them. Lay in a deep dish and spread over with meringue or whipped 
cream. 

CHEESE 

All the little dried pieces of cheese should be grated and put in a 
covered glass jar. These cheese crumbs are excellent for many made-over 
dishes and are particularly good with starchy foods, such as potatoes, 
macaroni, etc. 

Very tasty crackers can be made by spreading this grated cheese on 
crackers, seasoning them, and then putting them in the oven for a few 
minutes, 

96 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

SOUR MILK OR CREAM 

No sour milk or cream should be wasted. Put it into an earthen 
or glass jar, little by little, until you have half a cup or a cupful. As 
soon as it thickens use it for cottage cheese, griddle cakes, biscuits, corn- 
bread or gingerbread. 

Sour cream may also be used for filling for cake. 

COTTAGE CHEESE. Place a panful of milk which has soured 
enough to become thick, or clabbered, over a |)an of hot w^ater. Let ~it 
heat slowly until the whey has separated from the curd ; do not let it boil, 
or the curd will become tough ; then strain it through a cloth and press 
out all the whey ; stir into the curd enough butter, cream, and salt to 
make it a little moist and of good flavor. Work it well with a spoon 
until it becomes finegrained and smooth, then mold it into balls of any 
size desired. 

SOUR MILK PANCAKES. 

1 cup thick sour milk % cup flour 

\^2 cup cooked cereal 1 teaspoon soda 

1 tgg % teaspoon salt 

Beat sour milk, cereal and egg well together. Sift flour and salt and 
add them. When ready to bake the cakes, add the soda and beat the 
batter vigorously. It should look like thick cream. If too thin, add a 
little more flour; if too thick, add more sour milk oi' a little water. 

EMERGENCY BISCUITS. 

2 cups flour 1 cup thick sour milk 

1 tablespoon butter or any fat 1 teaspoon salt 

^2 teaspoon soda 
Sift flour, salt and soda well together. Rub in the butter or fat with 
a spoon. Add the milk and stir lightly. The dough should be soft. Drop 
by spoonfuls into greased muffin-tins and bake in a hot oven about 
twenty minutes. 

SOUR CREAM GINGERBREAD. 

2 tablespoons melted butter or ^ cupful sour milk 
butter substitute 1 teaspoon baking-soda 

34 cupful molasses 2 cupfuls flour 

1 eo-o- 1 tablespoon ginger 

Mix molasses, sour milk and beaten egg well together and add the 
ginger, salt and flour. Dissoh'e the soda in a very little hot w^ater and 
add it. Beat in the melted butter or butter substitute at the last. Bake 
in a shallow pan or muffin tins in a moderate oven about 25 minutes. 

SOUR CREAM FILLING FOR CAKES. Sweeten and chill a 
cup of sour cream. Whip it, keeping it cold while doing so. When 
stiff add a cup of chopped nuts. If cream does not become stiiT. add one 
teaspoon of melted gelatine at the last and set on ice. This makes an 
excellent filling for layer cakes. 

97 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

FRUIT 

Any fresh fruit that has become soft should be cooked at once with 
a little sugar added, to make a sauce, or it can be made into jelly. 

Any left-over canned fruit may be rubbed through a sieve and used 
for a sauce. It may be put into ice cream or molded into a corn-starch 
or rice mixture. 

Apple parings and cores should be stewed to a pulp and then 
strained. This will make a jelly, which, spread on apple tart, will greatly 
improve it. It can also be used for flavoring tapioca pudding. 

Orange peel and lemon peel may be used for flavoring sauces and 
stewed fruits. They can be dried and kept in a glass-covered jar until 
used. 

FRUIT SAUCE (made from fresh fruit that is slightly softened). 
Cook the fruit with a little sugar until the juice flows freely. Then beat 
some powdered sugar, the fruit juice and pieces of fruit together. Whip 
the white of an egg very light, and add to the beaten fruit and sugar, or 
add fruit gradually to the unbeaten egg white and beat for some minutes. 

APRICOT, PEAR OR PEACH SAUCE (from left-over canned 
fruit). Beat some powdered sugar, fruit juice and the pieces of left-over 
canned fruit together. Add fruit gradually to an unbeaten egg white 
and beat for some minutes ; or whip the white of egg very light and 
add to beaten fruit and sugar. Sauce made in the first way will last 
longer. 

CORN-STARCH PUDDING WITH FRUIT. 

1 pint of milk 1 well-beaten egg 

4 tablespoons corn-starch mixed /i teaspoon salt 

with a little cold water }< cup chopped cooked peaches, 

J^ cup sugar apricots or pears 

1 teaspoon vanilla 
Scald milk ; then stir in corn-starch mixed with a little cold water, 
and cook five minutes in double boiler. Place upper part of double boiler 
on fire, let corn-starch boil, return boiler to place, add sugar, egg and 
salt beaten together, and cook two minutes, stirring continually. Flavor 
with vanilla, add fruit, and pour into mold. Chill and serve with sugar 
and cream. An excellent way of using up small amounts of canned 
fruits. 



SOAP 

TO MAKE WHITE HARD SOAP. Save every scrap of fat each 
day ; fry out all that has accumulated, however small the quantity. This 
is done by placing the scraps in a frying-pan on the back of the range. 
If the heat is low, and the grease is not allowed to get hot enough to 
smoke or burn, there will be no odor from it. Turn the melted grease 
into lard pails and keep them covered. \\'hen six pounds of fat have 
been obtained, turn it into a dish-pan; add a generous amount of hot 
water, and stand it on the range until the grease is entirely melted. Stir 
it well together ; then stand it aside to cool. This is clarifying the 
grease. The clean grease will rise to the top, and when it has cooled can 
be taken off in a cake, and such impurities as have not settled in the 
water, can be scraped off the bottom of the cake of fat. 

Put the clean grease into the dish-pan and melt it. Put a can of 
Rabbit's lye in a pail ; add to it a quart of cold water, and stir it 
with a stick or wooden spoon until it is dissolved. It will get hot when 
the water is added ; let it stand until it cools. Remove the melted grease 
from the fire, and pour in the lye slowly, stirring all the time. Add two 
tablespoons of ammonia. Stir the mixture constantly for twenty min- 
utes or half an hour, or until the soap begins to set. 

Let it stand until perfectly hard ; then cut it into square cakes. This 
makes a very good, white hard soap which will float on water. It is very 
little trouble to make, and will be found quite an economy in a household. 
Six pounds of grease make eight and a half pounds of soap. 



Save all pieces of soap that are too small to handle. Melt them in a 
little water over a slow fire and then put it into glass-covered jars. This 
makes a jelly-like substance which can be used for washing dishes, boil- 
ing clothes or any other purpose for which soap is used. 



99 



FIRELESS COOKER 

A fireless cooker is a box so made and lined that when food is heated 
over a fire for a short time and then placed in the box, the heat will be 
retained in the box and the food will continue to cook without the use 
of any additional fire or heat. 

The fireless cooker is particularly good for cooking the less tender 
cuts of meat or meat that requires long cooking. It can also be used 
for cooking soup, pot roast, beef stew, Irish stew, lamb stew, corned 
beef and cabbage, boiled ham. baked beans, chicken fricassee, vegetables 
such as turnips, parsnips, carrots and beets, dried vegetables such as 
peas, beans and lentils, dried fruits such as peaches, apples, apricots 
and prunes, cereals, and puddings. 

Most people do not cook cereals long enough. By using a fireless 
cooker you can prepare your cereal at night, cook it on the stove for 
about fifteen minutes, put it in the fireless cooker, and when you get up 
in the morning you will find it all cooked and ready to be eaten. In this 
wa}- you save both time and fuel. ' 

Lots of women who have to be away from their homes all day pre- 
pare the family dinner in the morning, put it in the fireless cooker, and 
find it cooked and ready to be eaten on their return at night. This is a 
great help to the woman who has to work hard all day and who is too 
tired to prepare and cook a dinner when she gets home at night. 

There are ^•arious makes of fireless c(Hikers that can he bought in 
stores where household furnishings are sold. They range in price from 
$5 to $22, according to the size and riake of the cooker. 

It is not necessary, however, for you to buy a fireless cooker. You 
can easily make one at home. 

TRY IT 

YOU WILL FIND IT WILL SAVE NOT ONLY YOUR TIME 
BUT MANY A DOLLAR ON YOUR COAL AND GAS BILLS. 

DIRECTIONS for FIRELESS COOKER No. 1 (Single Cooker) 

MATERIALS NEEDED 

Galvanized iron can. Xo. v\ with cover, about $0.7S 

Sawdust, about 0.10 

Two yards denim, about 0.45 

Covered agate pail (to be used as cooking-pail), about 0.20 

Total SI. 53 

(Tt is net nccessar\- to use denim. You can use an old tablecloth, 

nmslin, canton flannel or any old wool material you happen to have on 

hand.) 

METHOD — Place loose sawdust in the bottom of the can to a 

depth of about 3 inches. I'old the two yards of denim or other material 

100 



FIRELESS COOKER 

leng-thwise and make a loui^ bag. This bag, when empty, should be 
about two inches deeper than the cooking-pail. Fill the bag with saw- 
dust : lay the bag flat on the table and spread the sawdust evenly. When 
filled with sawdust the bag should be a little deeper than the cooking- 
pail. Then roll the bag around the cooking-pail so that a smooth, firm 
nest is formed when the bag is placed upright in the can on top of the 
sawdust. From the remainirg denim or other material make a round 
flat bag (material will have to be pieced for this). Fill the bag with 
sawdust and use it on top of the cooking-pail. The bags must be made 
and fitted intO the can in such a way that there will be no open space 
whatever between the sides of the cooking-pail and the can, or between 
the top of the cooking-pail and the cover of the can, through which heat 
can escape. 

DIRECTIONS for FIRELESS COOKER No. 2 (Double Cooker) 

MATERIALS NEEDED— Three wooden boxes (one long box and 
two square bt^xes ; the long box must be large enough to hold the other 
two and still leave at least two inches of space between all the boxes). 
Your grocer will doubtless be glad to let you have the boxes without 
charge or at a very small cost. 

Sheet asbestos, 5^4 yards, one yard wnde, at about 20c. per yard. . $1.05 

Two covered agate pails (to be used as cooking pails), about 0.40 

Denim, 1 yard, about 0.22 

Total 1.67 

(Any old muslin, canton flannel or wool goods that you happen to 
have on hand may be used in place of denim.) 

METHOD — First of all line the bottoms and sides of all three boxes 
with the sheet asbestos. Then in the bottom of the long box lay news- 
papers flat to a depth of about one-half an inch. Then put two inches 
of sawdust on top of this layer of newspapers. Then place the two 
square boxes inside the long one, leaving at least two inches of space 
between the two square boxes. Fill all the spaces between all the boxes 
with sawdust. Then tack a strip of denim or other material from the 
edges of the scjuare boxes to the outside edge of the long box; also 
across the space between the two square boxes, so that the strip of denim 
will cover all the spaces that are filled with sawdust. 

The outside box must have a wooden lid. Line the lid with the 
sheet asbestos to within a half inch of the edge of the lid. Then put a 
layer of sawdust one inch deep on top of the asbestos. Then tack a piece 
of" denim or other material over the sawdust, still leaving the edge free 
and clear so that the cover will fit down tightly. Or the lid may be lined 
with asbestos and a pillow made of denim or other material and filled 
with sawdust that will fit tightly down into the top of the box. 

NOTE— THESE FIRELESS COOKERS ARE NOT AN EX- 
PERIMENT. THEY HAVE BEEN TESTED AND FOUND TO 
BE MOST PRACTICAL AND USEFUL. 

101 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR COOKING WITH 
A FIRELESS COOKER 

SOUPS shouki be cooked on the stove in the cooking-i:)ail for about 
thirty minutes, then put in the hreless cooker and left for about 12 hours. 
Reheat before serving. 

(If the soup were cooked on a coal or gas stove until done you would 
have to use your fire 3 or 4 hours. By using the fireless cooker you save 
from 2^4 to 3y2 hours of coal or gas.) 

POT ROAST — Get a 3-pound piece of beef cut from the neck, shoul- 
der or cross cut. Wipe it off with a damp cloth, season it, dredge it with 
flour, and then brown well on all sides in a hot greased frying-pan. Then 
put the meat in the cooking-pail, with an inverted saucer or something 
else under it to keep it from sticking. Add boiling water about two- 
thirds of the way up the roast. Cover tightly and let simmer on the 
stove for 20 minutes. Then add ^ cup each of diced carrots, turnips, 
potatoes and onions and 1 teaspoon of salt. Let it come to a boil and 
then place in fireless cooker and let it stay in for 7 or 8 hours. Then 
remove meat to a hot platter, put the vegetables around the meat, and 
make a gravy of 1 tablespoon of butter or drippings, 1 tablespoon of 
flour and 1 cup of the liquid strained from the roast. Season the gravy 
and serve with meat and vegetables. 

(It would take about 3 hours to cook this on your stove. By using 
the fireless cooker you sa\e about 2J/2 hours of coal or gas.) 

BEEF STEW — (For making stews use ends of ribs, neck, knuckle 
or hind shin.) Cut beef into small pieces ; add one onion cut in small 
pieces. Put meat in cooking-pail with an inverted saucer or something 
else under it to keep it from sticking. Add enough cold water to cover 
meat. Bring to simmering point. Let it simmer 20 minutes. Then 
add halved or quartered potatoes, a few pieces of carrot and turnip, salt 
and pepper to taste. Let it come to a boil and then place the pail in the 
fireless cooker and leave for 7 or 8 hours. Before potatoes are added 
to the stew boil them for five minutes on the stove. 

(It would take about 3 hours to cook this on your stove. By using 
the fireless cooker you save 2)/j hours of coal or gas.) 

MUTTON OR IRISH STEW— Follow directions given for beef 
stew, leaving it in fireless cooker for 5 or 6 hours. 

LAMB STEW— \y2 lbs. breast of lamb. 1 pint boiling water. 4 
medium-sized potatoes quartered and parboiled. 1 sliced onion, 2 table- 
spoons rice, 1 cup strained tomatoes, salt and pepper. 

Brown the onions in a little fat in the cooking-pail ; then add the 
meat cut roughly into cube-shaped pieces ; sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
Cover with boiling water. Let it simmer on the stove for 20 minutes. 
Then add potatoes, rice and tomatoes. Let it come to a boil and then 
place in fireless cooker for 4 or 5 hours. (By using the fireless cooker 
^ou save IjA hours of coal or gas.) 

CORNED BEEF AND CABBAGE— Prepare in your usual way 
and cook the corned beef on the stove in the cooking-pail for about 30 

102 



FIRELESS COOKER RECIPES 

minutes. Then put the corned beef in tireless cooker and leave for about 
6 hours. Then add the cabbage and leave in fireless cooker for 2 hours 
more. 

(If cooked entirely on your stove corned beef would take about 3 
hours. By using- the fireless cooker you save 2^< hours of coal or gas.) 

BOILED HAM — Cook on the stove in the cooking-pail for about 
30 minutes. Then put in the fireless cooker and leave for 8 or 10 hours, 
or overnight. 

(By using the fireless cocjker yuu save at least 3 hours of coal or 
gas.) 

BAKED BEANS — 1 quart of white beans, 1 teaspoon of. baking 
soda. 14 pound salt pork. 2 tablespoons of molasses, 1 teaspoon of mus- 
tard. 

\\'ash beans and then soak them in cold water for one hour. Then 
pour off the water and put beans into cooking-pail. Cover with cold 
water, add the soda and cook gently on the stove until beans are slightly 
softened. Pour ofl water ; mix molasses and mustard with a pint of 
water and pour this over the beans, adding more water if the beans are 
not covered. Place the pork upon the beans, bring to boiling, and cover 
the pail. Then put in fireless cooker and leave for ten or twelve hours. 

(Baked beans would require 6 to 8 hours if baked in a gas or coal 
oven. By using the fireless cooker the coal or gas is only used for 30 
minutes, making a wonderfid saving.) 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE— Cut up chicken and roll each piece in 
flour ; brown pieces in fat ; as each piece is browned, pack in cooking-pail. 
Make some gravy in pan in which browning is done. Pour gravy into 
the cooking-pail and add enough water to cover chicken. Season to taste 
with salt and pepper. Boil 20 minutes on stove ; then put in cooker for 
overnight. Reheat it when you want to use it. 

(,By using the fireless cooker you save about 2 hours of coal and gas. ) 

TURNIPS, PARSNIPS, CARROTS AND BEATS— Prepare in 

your usual way and boil on the stove in the cooking-pail for not more 
than five minutes. Then put in the fireless cooker. Leave turnips, 
parsnips and carrots in fireless cooker for 1 >< to 2 hours; beets 5 or 6 
hours. 

(By using the fireless cooker you save a great deal of coal or gas.) 

DRIED PEAS, BEANS AND LENTILS— Prepare m your usual 
way and cook on the stove in the cooking-pail for ten minutes. Then 
put in the fireless cooker and lea\e for 8 to 10 hours. 

( By using the fireless cooker you save at least 3 hours of coal or gas.) 

DRIED FRUITS, SUCH AS PEACHES, APPLES, APRICOTS 

AND PRUNES— These require long shnv cooking and little sugar. 
Dried prunes do not require any sugar at all, as the long slow cooking 
develops the natural sweetness in the truit. 

Wash all dried fruit carefully. Put in cooking-pail and cover with 
cold water, using one pint of fruit to ly. pints of water. Bring to the 

103 



FIRELESS COOKER RECIPES 

simmering- point on the stove and simmer for about 15 minutes. Then 
place in fireless cooker and leave for 6 or 8 hours or overnight. 

(You save at least 3 hours of coal or gas by using the fireless cooker 
for these.) 

CEREALS — Put in cooking-pail and cook on the stove for about 
15 minutes and then put in the fireless cooker and leave for 12 to 15 
hours or overnight. Cereals require long slow cooking, and by using 
a fireless cooker you save a great many hours of coal or gas. 

CREAMY RICE PUDDING— 1 cup rice, 1 pint milk, 4 tablespoons 
sugar, ys teaspoon salt, some nutmeg or cinnamon. 

Boil rice for about five minutes. Add milk without pouring ofi: the 
water; then add sugar and salt. Pour into a buttered pail, cover tightly, 
and place in cooking-pail half full of boiling water. Boil oAcr fire for 
five minutes. Then put in fireless cooker and leave for about 6 to 8 
hours. When finished grate nutmeg over the top or sprinkle with cinna- 
mon, or a stick of cinnamon may be boiled with the rice. 

(You save more than 1^/ hours of coal or gas by using the fireless 
cooker.) 

Clt is well to place an inverted saucer in the bottom of the pail of 
hot water so that the pudding will not get too hot while cooking on the 
stove.) 

STEAMED CUSTARD— 1 cjuart milk, 4 eggs, JA teaspoon salt, >< 
cup sugar, nutmeg. 

Scald the milk in a doul)le boiler ; beat the eggs slightly and add the 
sugar and salt ; then gradually add the scalded milk. Pour into buttered 
pail, cover tightly, and place in cooking-pail half full of boiling water. 
Boil over fire for 5 minutes; then place in fireless cooker for 1% hours 
to 2 hours. \\'hen finished grate a little nutmeg over the top of the 
pudding. 

(It is well to place an inverted saucer in the bottom of the pail of 
hot water so that custard will not get too hot while cooking on the 
stove.) 

APPLES IN SYRUP — Pare and core sour apples and then cut in 
half. Make a syrup of 1 cup sugar and 1 cup water. Cook over fire in 
cooking-pail until clear. Add apples and boil five minutes. Then put in 
fireless cooker for 4 or 5 hours. 

NOTE — Bear in mind that all the food must first be cooked on the 
stove in the cooking-pail for the length of time given. Then the cooking- 
pail, with the food in it, must be taken directly from the stove and put 
into the cooker without delay. This is absolutely necessary in order 
to retain in the pail and in the food the heat that is needed to continue 
the cooking:. 



104 



CANNING FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 

One secret of success in canning is cleanliness. For this reason, 
keep the room as free as possible from dust ; keep the table, 3^our hands. 
and your clothes clean while you work; and wash all the utensils iust 
before beginning work; rinse them with boiling water, and let them dr\- 
without wiping. 

TO STERILIZE JARS: Put the jars in a pan or pail, cover with 
cold water, let it come to a boil and boil for ten minutes. This is an extra 
precaution, not necessary except when fruit is cooked before being put 
into jars. \Vhen it is done, covers and rings should be sterilized in a 
.smaller vessel in the same way. 

TO TEST A JAR: Fill a jar with water, fasten on ring and co\'er, 
and invert. If it leaks, either the jar is imperfect or the rubber poor. 
Use no jar that cannot be made absolutely tight. 

WHEN BREAKAGE OF JARS OCCURS IT IS DUE TO SUCH 
CAUSES AS: 

1. Overpacking the jars. Corn, peas and lima beans swell or 
expand in canning. Do not fill tlie jars quite full of these 
products. 

2. Placing the cold jars in hot water or vice versa. As soon 
as the jars are filled with hot syrup or hot water, place them 
immediately in the boiler. 

3. Having the wire fastener of glass-top jars too tight, thus 
breaking the jars when the lever is forced down. 

4. Allowing a cold draft to strike the jars wlien the\' are 
removed from the boiler. 

THE RIGHT SORT OF FRUIT TO CAN: Can each fruit in its 
season when it is best and cheapest. It is best for canning just before 
it is quite ripe. The better the condition of the fruit the easier it is to 
sterilize. So use only fresh, clean, sound fruit, and see that no soft 
berries or spoiled bits get into the cans. 

TO COOK FRUIT IN JARS IN A CLOSED VESSEL THE 
FOLLOWING OUTFIT IS NECESSARY: A wash boiler, pail, or 
any vessel with a tight-fitting cover, large enough to hold several 
jars; a rack to fit the b(^ttom of the boiler and keep the jars from 
bumping and breaking when the water boils (this may be a piece 
of heavy wire netting or it may be made at home of strips of wood) ; 
quart or pint glass jars (the jars with glass covers and metal springs 
are best); a new rubber ring for each jar (old rubber may not be 
air-tight); large bowl or enamelled pan for fruit; plated knife and 
fork; plated or enamelled spoon; quart measure; half-pint measure; 
scales; saucepan for syrup. Avoid iron and tinware in canning. 

CAN BOTH FRUIT AND VEGETABLES AS SOON AS YOU 
GET THEM HOME. 

105 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR CANNING 
FRUITS WITH SUGAR 

Pack fruit compcictly in jars. It will pack better it ptU in a 
strainer or piece of cheese-cloth and lowered into boiling water for 
abotit one mintite. This is called "blanching." Blanch fruit in small 
lots, that the water may not be cooled much. Press fruit gently 
down in jars with spoon or small wooden spatula. Fill jars with 
syrtip. Release any air-bubbles by slipping knife or spatula down 
between fruit and jar. Put on rings and cover without fastening 
them down. Place jars on rack in boiler. Pour warm water in boiler, 
enough to come about half-way up the jars. Ptit cover on boiler. 
P>ring water to a boil and boil gently as long as required. Remove 
boiler from the stove, fasten down covers, take jars out and let them 
cool. If, when jars are taken from the boiler, there is more than half 
an inch of space between fruit and cover, the contents of one jar may 
lie used to fill the rest before the covers are fastened down. Put jars 
again in boiler and boil 5 minutes more. 

These directions apply to fruit bought in towns and cities. Less 
time is required for fruit freshly picked. Ten minutes for quart jars, 
five minutes for pint jar of freshly picked berries is sufficient. The 
shorter the time of cooking, the better the berries retain their flavor, 
shape and color. 

CANNING FRUITS WITH SUGAR 

Fruits can be classified into three distinct groups, or classes, such 
as soft fruits, sour berry fruits and hard fruits. 

1. SOFT FRUITS. SUCH AS STRAWBERRIES. BLACK- 
BERRIES. SWEET CHERRIES. BLUEBERRIES, PEACHES. 
APRICOTS. ETC. 

RECIPE FOR CANNING SOFT FRUITS— ^Llke a syrup in the 
proportion of 1 cup oi sugar to .> cups of water. Put on stove and 
bring to the boiling point. For a thin syrup, boil one minute. For a 
medium-thin syrup, boil until slightly sticky when cooled. The amount 
of syrup required will depend upon the quantity of fruit to be canned. 
Rinse the fruit by pouring water over it through a strainer. Cull, seed, 
stem, and remove skins if necessary. Pack immediately in glass jars. 
Add boiling hot syrup. Fill jars to overflowing. Place rubbers and tops 
in place. Partially tighten. Place jars in kettle and boil gently for 10 to 
20 minutes. Remove jars from kettle. Tighten covers. Invert to cool 

106 



CANNING FRUITS WITH SUGAR 

and test fur leakage. Wrap glass jars in paper to prevent bleaching. 
Then store. 

2. SOUR BERRY FRUITS, SUCH AS CURRANTS, GOOSE- 
BERRIES, CRANBERRIES AND SOUR CHERRIES. 

RECIPE FOR CANNING SOUR BERRY FRUITS— Stem, hull 
and clean. Dip quickly in hot water. Remove and dip quickly in cold 
water. Pack berries closely in jars. Add a boiling hot syrup made in 
the proportion of l^j cups of sugar to 3 cups of water. Place rubbers 
and caps in place. Partially tighten. Place jars in kettle and boil 
gently for 10 to 20 minutes. Remove jars. Tighten covers and invert 
to cool and test for leakage. \\'rap in paper and store. 

3. HARD FRUITS, SUCH AS APPLES, PEARS. QUINCES, 
ETC. 

RECIPE FOR CANNING HARD FRUIT— Dip quickly in hot 
water for l^i minutes, and then plunge quickly in cold water. Core, pit, 
or remove skins if necessary. Pack whole, quartered, or sliced as desired. 
Add a boiling hot syrup made in the proportion of 1 cup of sugar to 3 
cups of water. Place rubbers and tops in position. Partially tighten. 
Place jars in kettle and boil gently for 15 to 2"? minutes. Remove jars. 
Tighten covers and invert to cool and test for leakage. Wrap glass 
jars in paper to prevent bleaching, and store. 



107 



CANNING FRUITS WITHOUT SUGAR 

Fruits Can Be Canned Without Sugar 

THIS IS THE WAY TO DO IT 

Wash fruit; cull, seed, stem, and remove skins if necessary. 

Can whole or cut in halves. Pack fruit in jars and fill the jars to 
the top with cold water. Put rubbers and caps in place and partially 
tighten. Put jars in kettle and pour cold water into kettle, enough to 
come very near the top of the jars. Cover the kettle and bring slowly 
to boiling. Boil soft fruits from 30 to 45 minutes, until fruit is cooked 
through. Hard fruits will require an hour and a half. 

Have only enough fire to keep the water boiling gently . More than 
this is a waste of either coal or gas, and the rapid boiling is likely to 
crack the jars. When done, remove jars from the boiling water and 
fasten covers tightly at once, without having taken covers off. This is 
important, for no air should enter jars after boiling begins. Invert to 
cool and test for leakage. Wrap in paper and store. 



108 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR CANNING 
VEGETABLES 

Pack vegetables compactly in jars. Add boiling water and salt. Re- 
lease any air bubbles by slipping a knife or spatula down between vege- 
tables and jar. Put on rings and cover without fastening them down. 
Place jars on rack in boiler. Pour warm water in boiler, enough to come 
about half way up the jars. Put cover on the boiler. Bring^vvater to a 
boil and boil gently as long as required. Remove boiler from the stove, 
fasten down covers, take jars out and let them cool. If when jars are 
taken from the boiler there is more than half an inch of space between 
vegetables and cover, the contents of one jar can be used to fill the rest 
before the covers are fastened down. Put jars again in boiler and boil 
5 minutes more. 

Most vegetables are injured in flavor and quality by an excessive 
use of salt for seasoning in the canning process. A little salt is very 
palatable, and its use should be encouraged, but it is better to add no 
salt in canning than to use too much. It can be added to suit the taste 
when canned goods are served. 

CANNING VEGETABLES 

The vegetables most commonly used for canning can be divided 
into four classes : 

1. VEGETABLE GREENS, SUCH AS SWISS CHARDS, KALE, 
TURNIP TOPS, ASPARAGUS, SPINACH, BEET TOPS, CULTI- 
VATED DANDELION, MUSTARD PLANT. 

RECIPE FOR CANNING VEGETA BLE GREENS — Prepare and can 
as soon as you get them home. Sort and clean. Put in a colander; 
set colander over boiling water, and steam for 15 or 20 minutes. Re- 
move. Plunge quickly into cold water. Cut in convenient lengths. 
Pack tight in jars and season to taste. Add hot water to fill crevices 
and a level teaspoon of salt tO' each quart jar. Place rubbers and 
tops in position and partially tighten. Place jars in kettle and boil 
gently for 2 hours. Remove from kettle. Tighten covers. Invert to 
cool and test for leakage. Wrap in paper to prevent bleaching, and store. 

RECIP E FOR CANNING CABBAGE, BRUSSELS SPROUTS AND 
CAULIFLOVyERl ~~ — — 

The recipe for canning these vegetables is practically the same as 
for the above-named vegetable greens, and the same instructions may 
be followed. 

Experience alone will teach the slight variations necessary in 
amount of time required for blanching, amount of seasoning necessary 
for the various vegetable greens, etc. 

2. ROOT AND TUBER VEGETABLES, SUCH AS CARROTS, 
PARSNIPS, BEETS, TURNIPS, ETC. 

RECIPE FOR CANNING ROOT AND TUBER VEGETABLES— Wash 

Uioroughly. Use vegetable brush. Scald in boiling hot water 

109 



CANNING VEGETABLES 

sufficiently to loosen the skin. Plunge quickly in cold water. Scrape 
or pare to remove skin. Pack whole or cut in sections or cubes. Add 
boiling hot water and one level teaspoon of salt to each quart jar. 
Place rubbers and tops in position. Partially seal, but not tight. Place 
jars in kettle and boil gently for 2 hours. Remove from kettle. Tighten 
covers. Invert to cool and test for leakage. Wrap in paper to prevent 
bleaching, and store. 

3. SPECIAL VEGETABLES. TOMATOES AND CORN. 

RECIPE FOR CANNING TOMATOES— Scald in hot water enough 
to loosen skins. Plunge quickly in cold water. Remove. Core and 
skin. Pack whole. Fill jar with whole tomatoes only. Add one 
level teaspoon of salt to each quart jar. Place rubbers and caps 
in position. Partially seal, but not tight. Boil gently for 22 minutes. 
Remove jars. Tighten covers. Invert to c(^ol and test for leakage. 
Wrap jars in paper and store. An acidity that is disagreeable to the 
taste is sometimes noted in canned tomatoes. This may be corrected 
by adding ^ teaspoonful of baking-soda to a (piart of the canned toma- 
toes when cooking them for table use. 

RECIPE FO R CANNIN G SWEET CORN ON THE COB— Remove 
husks and silks. Place cobs in boiling water for 5 to 10 minutes. 
Plunge quickly in cold water. Pack ears, alternating butts and tips, in 
half-gallon glass jars. Pour over boiling hot water and add 1 level tea- 
spoon of salt to each half-gallon jar. Place rubbers and tops in position. 
Seal partially but not tight. Boil gently for 3 hours. Remove jars. 
Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test for leakage, ^^"rap jars with 
paper and store. 

Note — When sweet corn is taken from jar for table use, remove ears 
as soon as jar is opened. Heat corn, slightly buttered, in steamer. Do 
not allow ears td stand in water or to be boiled in water the second time. 

RECIPE F OR C AN NING SWEET CORN CUT FROM COB- Remove 
husks and silks. Place cobs in boiling hot water for 5 to 15 min- 
utes. Plunge quickly in cold water. Cut the corn from the cob with 
a thin, shari)-bladed knife. Pack corn in jar. Add one level teaspoon 
of salt to each quart jar and sufficient hot water to fill. Place rubbers 
and tops in position ; seal partially, but not tight. Boil gently for 3 
hours; set aside until the next day; then boil for 1 hour more. Remove 
jars. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test for leakage. \\'rap Avith 
paper and store. 

4. OTHER VEGETABLES, SUCH AS LIMA BEANS, STRING- 
BEANS, PEAS, ETC. 

RECIPE FOR CANNING — Put in boiling hot water for 2 to 5 
minutes. Remo\e and plunge quickly in cold water. Pack in jars until 
full. Add boiling water to fill crevices. Add one level teaspoon 
of salt to each quart jar. Place rubbers and tops in position. Par- 
tially seal, 1)ut ni)t tight. Boil gently for 1 hour; set aside until the 
next day then boil for 1 hour more. Remove jars. Tighten covers and 
invert to cool, ^^'rap jars in jiaper and store. 

110 



HOW TO PRESERVE EGGS AT HOME 

As the shells of eggs are porous, air and germs can get into the 
eggs through the shell and make them unfit to eat. Xo eggs are per- 
fectly clean when bought ; therefore it is best to wipe them with a clean, 
damp cloth as soon as you get them home. Clean eggs, kept cool, re- 
main for a week or more practically as good as when laid. As hens la}^ 
best in spring and early summer, it is necessar}- to preserve the eggs 
that are needed for winter use. Dealers use the cold-storage method, 
but housewives can preserve eggs at home by using either of the fol- 
lowing methods: 

1. BY COATING THEM WITH WATER GLASS. Water glass 
does not cost much. You can buy it at almost any drug or department 
store. 

Directions : Mix water glass with water, using 9 parts of water to 
1 part water glass. Put eggs in a stone jar and pour water glass over 
them, being careful to see that they are well covered. Keep the jar of 
eggs in a cool place. If you want to boil eggs that have been preserved 
in water glass it will be necessary to make a tiny pin-hole in the small 
end of each egg before putting them into the boiling water ; otherwise 
they will explode. 

2. BY GREASING THEM. They can be greased with butter, 
any butter substitute, lard or in fact any clean fat. 

Directions: The grease must be soft enough to be applied with a 
brush. Be careful to see that the entire egg is greased. Then pack 
the eggs, small end down, in any wooden box, putting a strip of card- 
board between each egg so that the eggs do not touch each other. 
Keep the box of eggs in a cool place. 

3. BY PACKING THEM IN SAWDUST. 

Directions: Pack eggs in sawdust, small end down. Be sure that 
each egg is entirely covered with the sawdust. You can use any 
wooden box to pack them in. Keep the box of eggs in a cool place. 



Ill 



THE PROBLEM OF THE WORLD 

At the present moment food is the problem of practically the entire 
■world. 

Because of the European war many countries have been unable to 
raise as much food as they did in previous years. Over forty million 
men are in the armies that are fic^hting'. These men are no longer pro- 
ducing; they are consuming. Where they have been taken from fac- 
tories, farm men have taken their places in the factories, and as a result 
labor on the farms is very scarce. 

Our country is called upon to make good a large part of this food 
shortage. We must do this largely through saving the waste that has 
heretofore existed in our methods of using food. As a people we have 
lived most extravagantly in this country. Sooner or later we will have 
to learn various economies. Why not learn some of them now when, 
by so doing, we can benefit the entire world? 

Our country as a whole can do nothing on this important question 
without the help of every housewife everywhere. We have prepared 
this little pamphlet in order to help the housewife help her country. 
Study the suggestions it contains and put them into use at once. 

THE SOLUTION OF THE FOOD PROBLEM LIES IN THE 
HANDS OF THE WOMEN OF THE WORLD. YOU ARE ONE 
OF THOSE WOMEN. Respond gladly and at once to the call that is 
being made on you. 

Learn economy in food matters; 

Learn what foods are the most nourishing, so that you will know 
what food to buy ; 

Learn how to cook it; 

Learn how not to waste a bit of it. 

HERE IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY TO BE OF TREMENDOUS 
SERVICE NOT ONLY TO YOUR COUNTRY BUT TO THE 
WORLD. 



It costs about 10 cents to print and distribute this pamphlet. This Committee feels that 
the poorer people of New York City should have this pamphlet free of charge, and it plans to 
distribute as many in this way as its funds will permit. To this end it asks for contributions 
from those who believe this pamphlet will be helpful and who can afford to contribute to the 
fund that is being raised for the above purpose. Checks or post office money orders should 
be made payable to Mayor Mitchel's Food Supply Committee. 

Those ordering this pamphlet by mail will please enclose 10 cents in cash for each copy 
ordered. Do not send stamps. 



MAYOR MITCHEL'S FOOD SUPPLY COMMITTEE 

Room 2012 
71 Broadway, New York City 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



Hints to Housewives 



PREPARED BY 



EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 



OF 




Mayor Mitchel's Food Supply Committee 



GEORGE W. PERKINS, Chairman 

JOHN BUCKLE CARL A. KOELSCH 

WM. H. CHILDS L. J, LIPPMANN 

GEORGE DRESSLER CYRUS C. MILLER 

M. MAURICE ECKSTEIN W. C. MUSCHENHEIM 

in collaboration with 

THE DOMESTIC SCIENCE DEPARTMENT 

of the 

Board of Education, of the City of New York 

WM. G. WILLCOX, President 



'■iiJ;i!l8Si]ffi; 



It costs about 10 cents to print and distribute this pamphlet This Committee feels thaljiMJj 
the poorer people of New York City should have this pamphlet free of charge, and it plans tijijniin 
distribute as many in this way as its funds will permit. To this end it asks for contribution;j!iljl(|i 
from those who believe this pamphlet will be helpful and who can afford to contribute to thi|!!;|;J!|j||l 
fund that is being raised for the above purpose. Checks or post office money orders shoul!!ij;i;;!:|!!J 
be made payable to Mayor Mitchel's Food Supply Committee and mailed to Room 2012;;ii';;;:::;! 
71 Broadway, New York City. 

Those ordering this pamphlet by mail will please enclose 10 cents in cash for each cop;:-:::: i-;;;;!! 
ordered. Do not send stamps. ■ i:i-!i;:ii!ii 



Isaac Goldmann Cocipany, Printers, New York 



UC-NRLF 



TX 

3 

/V-f 





GIFT OF 




unv'Si? 



Hints to Housewives 



on 



How to Buy 

How to Care for Food 

Meats 

Drippings and Butter Substitutes 

Substitutes for Meat 

Fish 



Cereals 

Bread 

How to Use Left- Overs 

How to Make Soap 

Fireless Cooker 

Canning Fruits and Vegetables 

How to Preserve Eggs 



"Every housewife can 'DO HER BIT' towards solv- 
ing the food problem by simplifying the meals 
she serves and by seeing to it that not one bit of 
food is wasted." 



Is'sued by 

Mayor Mitchel's Food Supply Committee 

71 Broadway, New York City 



June 1917 



A PATRIOTIC CALL TO HOUSEWIVES 



VARIOUS reasons have been advanced for the present high cost of 
living, among them being the amount of food that we shipped to 
Europe last year and the shortage we had in certain crops, due 
to the unfavorable climatic and soil conditions that existed last year. 

As we will likely have to send to Europe this year as much or even 
more food than we did last year, we must, each and every one of us, do 
everything we can to economize and save the waste in order to avoid a 
shortage among our own people and keep down the cost of food as much 
as possible. 

The entire country has been aroused to the necessity for larger 
crops ; and greater quantities of food are being planted in the hope of 
raising enough to meet the pressing needs of Europe as well as to supply 
our own people. 

Not only 'are the farmers trying to meet the patriotic call that has 
been made on them for larger crops, but people all over the City and 
State are lending a hand toward solving the country's food problem by 
utilizing yards and vacant lots for vegetable gardens, in the hope of 
raising at least enough for their own use, thus releasing that much food 
for the use of others who have no land that they can cultivate. 

Every housewife can "do her bit" towards solving the food problem 
by simplifying the meals she serves and by seeing to it that not one bit 
of food is wasted. 

We have prepared this little book with the object of offering some 
practical hints as to the various ways in which economies can be effected 
and the waste saved. 

If every housewife will carefully read, study, and put into every- 
day use at once, the suggestions made in the following pages, she will 
not only be helping to reduce the high cost of living for her family and 
her neighbors, but will be rendering a distinct patriotic service to her 
country at this critical time. 



It costs about 10 cents to print and distribute this pamphlet. This Committee feels that 
the poorer people of New York City should have this pamphlet free of charge, and it plans to 
distribute as many in this way as its funds will permit. To this end it asks for contributions 
from those who believe this pamphlet will be helpful and who can afford to contribute to the 
fund that is being raised for the above purpose. Checks or post office money orders should 
be made payable to Mayor Mitchel's Food Supply Committee. 

Those ordering this pamphlet by mail "will please enclose 10 cents in cash for each copy 
ordered. Do not send stamps. 



MAYOR MITCHEL'S FOOD SUPPLY COMMITTEE, 

Room 2012, 
71 Broadway, New York City. 



INDEX 



Page 

A Patriotic Call to Housewives 1 

How to Buy o.oo 3 

How to Care for Food 6 

Beef 8 

The Use of Drippings and Butter Substitutes 10 

Sauces 12 

Salad Dressings 14 

Substitutes for Meat 16 

Substitutes for Meat Recipes 18 

Fish 36 

Fish Recipes 37 

Vegetables 49 

Vegetable Recipes 50 

Cereals 70 

Cereal Recipes 72 

Bread 76 

Bread Recipes 77 

How to Use Left-Overs 80 

Left-Over Recipes 82 

How to Make Soap 99 

Fireless Cooker 100 

Directions for Making Fireless Cooker at Home 101 

Fireless Cooker Recipes 102 

Canning Fruits With and Without Sugar 105 

Canning Vegetables 109 

How to Preserve Eggs Ill 

The Problem of the World. . i 112 



(V' 



HOW TO BUY 

Go to the store yourself. 

Select for yourself the article you desire to purchase. 

Inquire its price. 

If quality and price please you, be sure that you get in weight or 
measure the amount you buy. Watch the scale. Watch the measure. 

If the meat you purchase is weighed in a piece of paper or anything 
else, be sure you are not charged for the weight of the paper. 

You are entitled to all the bone and the trimmings of the piece of 
meat that you buy. You should take home and make use of such bone 
and trimmings. The fat can be rendered and used for cooking purposes; 
the bone and trimmings used for soup or stew. When the trimmings 
are not taken home the butcher throws them into a box under the coun- 
ter and sells them to someone else. They belong to you and you should 
have them. 

In buying meat, don't go in and ask for 25c. worth of meat and leave 
the butcher to decide how much meat you should have for a quarter. 
Select your piece of meat, ask the price per pound ; say how many 
pounds you want ; have it weighed ; see that you get your weight and 
that the butcher's calculation as to how much meat you have, at a certain 
price per pound, is correct. Many a penny is lost to the customer by 
neglecting the above simple precautions. 

In marketing, the pennies count up very fast. 

Don't allow your dealer to weigh in the wooden butter dish in 
weighing your butter unless he deducts the weight. 

Don't buy in small quantities if you can possibly avoid it. Make 
every effort to get together two or three dollars. This will enable you 
to buy for cash ; buy in larger quantities ; buy where you can do the best. 

In this way you can save two or three dollars in a very short time. 

Under the laws and regulations of the City you have definite rights 
in the matter of getting full measure and full weight for everything you 
buy, and the City's Bureau of Weights and Measures stands ready to 
help you get your rights. This is a protection that is due the honest 
dealer as well as yourself. 

Cheapness does not always mean quality or full weight. Be sure 
you get quality and quantity. 

Wherever possible buy in bulk and not in package. 

Have you ever stopped to figure out how much more you would 
get for your money if you bought certain articles of food by the pound 
instead of by the package? 

Food that is wrapped and sold in attractive-looking packages must 
of necessity cost more than the same food sold in bulk, which means 
sold by the pound. 

In the first place, the box or jar containing the food costs money. 

365860 



HOW TO BUY 

The wax paper used costs money. The wrapper costs money. The 
printing on the wrapper costs money. And it also costs money to fill 
the packages and seal them. It follows, therefore, that you cannot pos- 
sibly get as much food for your money when so large a part of your 
money has to pay for the box, wrapper, printing, etc. 

There are several reasons why so many foods are put up in packages. 

First: The package looks pretty, appeals to the eye, and makes 
the food seem more appetizing. 

Second: Most of the packages are air-tight and dustproof, and 
for sanitary reasons a great many people prefer food that is done up 
in packages. 

As a matter of fact, it is possible for your grocer to keep on hand, 
in bulk, exactly the same foods as the packages contain, and it is also 
possible for him to keep them in bulk in a perfectly sanitary manner, so 
that dust and dirt cannot reach them. 

STEAM-COOKED CEREALS Steam-cooked cereals are not eco- 
nomical. Many cereal preparations, including most of those sold in 
packages, have been partially steam-cooked at the factory. This short- 
ens the time required to prepare them for the table, but, en the other 
hand, it injures their flavor and adds to them a large quantity of water, 
for the weight of which the purchaser pays. One cup of raw oatmeal 
will absorb four cups of water. One cup of steam-cooked oatmeal will 
absorb only two cups of water. Therefore, one cup of raw oatmeal, 
when cooked, will make twice as much as one cup of steam-cooked oat- 
meal, when cooked. 

An argument in favor of steam-cooked cereals is that they save 
time and fuel, but the raw cereals not only are more economical but far 
more nourishing, and you can shorten the time of cooking by soaking 
them overnight. All cereals require long, slow cooking. You can save 
both time and fuel, therefore, by using a fireless cooker for cereals. 
Cook the cereal on the stove for about 15 minutes; then put in fireless 
cooker and leave overnight. You will find it all cooked and ready to be 
eaten when you get up in the morning. For information as to how to 
make a fireless cooker at home and what can best be cooked in it, see the 
chapter in this book entitled "Fireless Cooker." 

If you will buy your Tapioca, Tea, Soda Crackers, Graham Crackers, 
Ginger Snaps, Macaroni and Starch in bulk instead of in package, you 
will get a great deal more for the money you spend. 

You will find it cheaper to buy your Vinegar loose rather than by 
the bottle. 

You will get a great deal more Bacon for less money if you will 
buy it in bulk instead of by the jar. 

PEACHES and APRICOTS A can of peaches or apricots contains 
very little fruit. A pound of evaporated peaches or apricots costs less 
than a can and contains at least three times as much fruit. If properly 
cooked, ted peaches and apricots are just as good as, if not 

better, than the -ja ~ed fruit and, in addition, you get a great deal more 
for your money 

4 



HOW TO BUY 

You can get twice as much Shredded Codfish if you buy it loose 
rather than by the package. 

PEAS AND LIMA BEANS By buying dried peas and lima beans 
instead of canned ones you can get twice the amount for one-half the 
money. Dried peas and lima beans can be used in place of canned peas 
or beans for creamed soups and purees, and one cup of dried peas or 
beans will go as far as two cups of canned peas or beans. 

BEANS Canned baked beans are expensive. Even counting in 
the cost of fuel you can bake the same amount of beans for one-half the 
money. 

TOMATOES Instead of using whole canned tomatoes for soups, 
sauces, etc., buy canned tomato pulp, which costs one-half the price. 

WHY SHOULD YOU BUY THINGS IN PACKAGES WHEN 
YOU CAN GET ALMOST TWICE AS MUCH OF THE SAME 
ARTICLE FOR THE SAME AMOUNT OF MONEY IF YOU BUY 
IT IN BULK? 

Sit down and make a list of the various foods that you have been in 
the habit of buying in packages. 

Think of the money you might have saved had you bought them in 
bulk. 

Make up your mind to buy them in bulk in the future, if it is pos- 
sible for you to get them. 

It will pay you to break yourself of the package habit. There are 
many foods sold now in packages only that your grocer will be glad to 
carry in bulk as soon as he knows that you and his other customers 
want them. 

The manufacturer, the wholesale dealer and the retail dealer keep 
on the watch all the time to find out what the public wants. Of late 
years the public has seemed to want food in attractive packages at a high 
cost. As soon as people learn that by demanding it they can get exactly 
the same food in bulk, kept in a perfectly sanitary manner, for about 
one-half to two-thirds the cost of package food, the manufacturer, the 
wholesaler and the retailer will meet the demand. 

BUY IN BULK AND SAVE MONEY. 



HOW TO CARE FOR FOOD 

V 

Save money avoid waste keep well by taking proper care of the 
food you buy. 

A food may contain sufficient nourishment to give it high value as a 
food and yet if proper care is not taken of it the food may become 
poisonous. 

Food is often exposed to impure air and to dust and filth from un- 
clean streets and surroundings. This contaminates it, and such food, 
when eaten, will often produce disease. In order to keep food in the 
most wholesome condition special care should be taken that all its sur- 
roundings are sanitary. There are many things that influence the whole- 
someness of food, among them being the air, the dishes in which the 
food is placed, the ice-box, the cellar or closet where it is stored, and the 
other food with which it comes in contact. 
Foods may be divided into three classes: 
First Those that spoil easily; 
Second Those that do not spoil so easily; 
Third Those that may be kept a long time with proper care. 

FIRST The foods that spoil easily are milk, cream, uncooked meat, 
uncooked fish, certain fruits, such as peaches and plums, and vegetables 
that wilt easily, such as lettuce and spinach. 

MILK AND CREAM Milk and cream bottles are usually dirty on 
the outside when delivered to you. Wash them carefully, particularly 
the top of the bottle, before opening, so that no dirt can possibly get into 
the milk or cream. If the bottles are not washed out well when empty, 
the particles that are left may decay and when new fresh milk or cream 
is poured into the bottles, these particles will cause it to become sour. 
Never leave milk or cream uncovered. If you do it will take up the 
odors and flavors from other food and become spoiled for table use. 

UNCOOKED MEAT Do not keep your meat in the paper in 
which it is wrapped when bought ; the wrapping paper will absorb the 
juices. Unwrap it as soon as you get it home and wipe it off with a 
clean cloth that has been wrung out of cold water. The meat will keep 
better and the juices will remain in it longer if you will wrap it in wax 
paper until you are ready to use it. 

UNCOOKED FISH Never put uncooked fish into the ice-box un- 
less the fish is closely covered. You will find a tin lard pail useful for 
this purpose. If the fish is not covered other food in the ice-box will 
absorb the strong odors from it and be made unfit for use. 

Odors always rise ; strongly-flavored food, therefore, should be put 
on the upper shelf of the ice-box, so that the odors from it will not affect 
other things in the ice-box quite so much. 

Perishable foods should always be kept at a low temperature ; in 
other words, they should be kept where it is cool. 

FRUITS^All fruits should be kept in a cool, dry place and spread 
out, if possible. It is not necessary to put them in the ice-box. Fruits 
are handled a great deal before they reach you and should never be used 
without first being washed off. As ripe fruit spoils easily only a small 
quantity shot: ':', 1 bought at a time. 

VEGETABLES -Vegetables that are to be eaten in a raw state 
should be dipped : uiirdy in boiling water to destroy any germs, and then 

6 



HOW TO CARE FOR FOOD 

put in cheese cloth and placed directly on the ice to preserve their crisp- 
ness. Lettuce should be carefully picked over and washed at once. If 
put in clean cheese cloth and placed directly on the ice it will be much 
more crisp than if allowed to remain in water, and will also keep longer. 

SECOND The foods that do not spoil so easily are eggs, butter, 
fruits such as apples, oranges and lemons, cooked meat, and cooked, 
salted and smoked fish. 

EGGS Care is necessary in the handling of eggs, as the spoiling is 
partly due to uncleanly handling, the shells being more or less porous. 
It is best to wash them as soon as you get them home. When only the 
yolk of the egg is used, the white may be kept in a cup or glass, covered 
with a damp cloth fastened with an elastic band ; or, if only the white is 
used, the yolk can be kept in the same way. 

BUTTER Butter should be kept well covered and in a cool place. 
If it is not well covered it will take up the odors of the other food in 
the ice-box, and this spoils it for table use. 

COOKED MEAT AND FISH will keep much better if they are 
well covered before being placed in the ice-box. Cooked meat and fish 
attract flies and should never be allowed to stand uncovered. Do not 
put warm meat or warm food of any kind in the ice-box. If you do, it 
will materially change the temperature of the box and rapidly melt the 
ice. Keep the food covered while it is cooling, and put it in the ice-box 
when it has become cool. 

THIRD The foods that can be kept a long time with proper care 
are flour, sugar, salt, coffee, tea, spices and chocolate. All these should 
be kept closely covered to keep out dust and dirt. Coffee, tea and spices 
will lose their flavor if left uncovered. 

CANNED GOODS may also be kept a long time. Never allow the 
contents of a can to remain in it once the can is opened. If the food is 
allowed to stay in the can after it is opened sickness may come from 
eating it. You will also find that all canned goods will taste much better 
if the contents of the can are emptied and allowed to stand for an hour 
to get the air before being cooked. In the case of canned peas, beans 
and asparagus the liquid should be drained off as soon as the can is 
opened and cold water poured over them. It is not only safer to do this 
but the vegetables will taste much better. 

CEREALS It is best not to buy cereals in very large quantities 
because, if they are kept too long, insects are apt to develop in them. 
Cereals should always be kept in covered glass jars. 

THE BREAD BOX needs special care, particularly in Summer 
when mould forms quickly. Bread that has become mouldy is unfit to 
eat. The bread box should be scalded with hot water frequently and 
then dried and aired well before the bread is returned to the box. 

CHEESE should be kept in a cool, dry place. It should be wrapped 
in a clean cloth moistened with vinegar. This will prevent the forma- 
tion of mould. 

AVOID WASTE BY TAKING CARE OF THE FOOD YOU BUY. 

7 



BEEF 




The numbers on this picture show the location of the various cuts 
of beef. 



No. 1 Porterhouse 
No. 2 Sirloin 
No. 3 Round 
No. A Top Sirloin 
No. 5 Rib Roast 
No. 6 Rump 
No. 7 Cross Rib 
No. 8 Flank 



No. 9 Chuck 
No. 10 Blade 
No. 11 Shoulder 
No. 12 Neck 
No. 13 Brisket 
No. 14 Plate 
No. 15 Navel 
No. 16 Shin 



Do you know that the less tender cuts are more nourishing than the 
more expensive cuts? 

Do you know that the less expensive cuts, if properly cooked and 
seasoned, are mighty good eating? 

Flank steak costs much less than top sirloin or round steak, and 
makes an excellent roast. It can also be pot roasted or used as chopped 
meat. Try it. 

Chuck or round steak costs much less than porterhouse or sirloin 
and can be broiled in the same manner. Try it. 

Chuck roast costs much less than rib roast and will make just as 
appetizing a dish if the bone is removed, the meat rolled and then 
roasted. Try it. 

The beef ncci I* juicy and well flavored. It makes a good pot roast 
and excellent strw .d soups. Try it. 

8 



BEEF 

The cross rib makes an excellent pot roast and there is no waste. 
Try it. 

Shin of beef makes a good "beef a la mode." Cut it up the same 
as for stew; brown the pieces in hot fat; then add water; cook in a pot 
the same as pot roast, and serve with the gravy. By browning the meat 
in hot fat you retain its juices and this adds greatly to the flavor of the 
dish. Try it. 

Shin of beef makes a most nourishing soup and the meat can be 
taken from the pot afterwards and served with horseradish sauce. 
Try it. 

In broiling or roasting the less tender cuts, if you are afraid that 
they will not be as tender as you would like, they can be made tender if 
treated in the following simple manner : Mix two tablespoons of 
oil; one tablespoon of vinegar; brush this over the meat and let the 
meat stand for half an hour before cooking it. 

If you buy a rib roast of beef have your butcher cut the rib end off 
so that you can use it for making soup. If it is left on and roasted with 
the rest of the meat it is largely wasted. 

In corned beef, the flank piece, the naval piece, the plate piece and 
the brisket piece cost the least. These cuts are much more juicy and 
palatable than the rump piece, and the left-over portions can be used 
to make a splendid hash. Try it. 

Be sure that the beef you buy has a red rosy color; that it is well 
streaked with fat; that the fat is yellow white; that the lean is firm and 
elastic and scarcely moist when touched with the finger. 

Do not buy beef that is wet or flabby or that looks pink or purple 
as it lies on the counter. 

IT WILL PAY YOU 
TO TRY THE LESS EXPENSIVE CUTS. 



THE USE OF DRIPPINGS AND BUTTER 
SUBSTITUTES 

The average American housewife has no conception of the value of 
fats as food, and as a result much fat is wasted that should be used as 
food. 

Fats are one of the principal sources of energy. We buy fat in the 
form of butter and spread it on our bread. We use lard as shortening 
in bread and pastry and as a medium in which to fry other foods. The 
grease which melts out of ham and bacon is sometimes made into 
gravies; but more often it is thrown away, because the housewife does 
not realize its value as a food. Beef fat is less appreciated as a food 
even than lard, and yet pound for pound it is as valuable as butter or 
lard or any other animal fat. 

When we buy a beefsteak the butcher carefully trims off the fat 
and throws it into a box under the counter with bones and other waste 
which goes to the soapmaker. This fat has both a food value and a 
money value. It belongs to you and you should have it. You can 
render it and use it in cooking. 

The fine lumps of sweet beef fat or suet which adhere to the roast 
are used in roasting to give flavor, but most of the fat melts away and 
is not served at the table. Beef suet is occasionally used in cooking, but 
rendered beef fat is rarely used as a table fat in this country, although 
in Europe it is often eaten on bread in the place of butter. Beef suet 
has a rather pronounced flavor and a comparatively high melting point. 
These are probably the reasons why it is not more commonly used as 
a table fat. Much of the objectionable taste may be readily removed. 
One household method which may successfully be followed is to mix 
milk with the suet when it is rendered, using one-half cupful of milk to a 
pound of suet. When strained and cooled the flavor of the milk is ab- 
sorbed by the beef fat and changes the characteristic flavor. 

We must not longer allow beef fat to be sold for soap stock. To-day 
butter is about fifty cents a pound and lard about thirty cents. Beef 
fat, which pound for pound is as valuable as either lard or butter, is 
fifteen cents a pound in most markets. Indeed, in some places butchers 
sell it for less than that. 

If housewives would use beef fat instead of butter in every process 
of cooking in which they could possibly introduce it, their families would 
get the fat they need at one-third the cost of butter. 

Get into the habit of using beef drippings as food. Every pound 
of beef drippings you save takes the place of a pound of expensive butter. 

DRIPPINGS. As a substitute for butter in cooking certain foods, 
and also in seasoning vegetables there is nothing better than sweet, 
savory drippings. The following fats make savory drippings and can be 
employed alone or ; i combination. The fat from fried sausages, ham, 
bacon and pork anH r-<m roast pork, veal and chicken. The fat skimmed 

10 



THE USE OF DRIPPINGS AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTES 

from the water in which poultry has been boiled and the fats skimmed 
from the gravies of most roast meats should be clarified and saved. 
Great care must be taken that all these fats are clean and sweet, and that 
the temperature at which they are tried out shall not be so high as to 
impair the flavor. Burned or scorched fat is not only unpleasant in 
flavor, but is a frequent cause of indigestion. 

Not all meats supply fats that are savory in the sense in which the 
word is employed here. Most people do not use the fat from mutton, 
lamb, duck, goose and turkey because of their flavor ; but these fats can 
be used just as well as any other fat if you do not object to their flavor, 
or if they are combined with a larger quantity of other fats. 

HOW TO PREPARE FAT FOR FRYING. Fats are "tried out" 
or rendered, to free them from connective tissue, then clarified to remove 
water and impurities. Suet and scraps must first be tried out, and then 
clarified ; soup fat and drippings need only to be clarified. 

TO TRY OUT FAT. Cut the fat into bits, put it into a frying- 
pan, or better, a double boiler, and let it cook slowly for several hours. 
When the fat is melted and nearly free from water, strain it, pressing to 
'obtain all the fat. 

TO CLARIFY FAT. Melt drippings or tried-out fat, add to it a 
few slices of raw potato, and heat slowly in the oven until it ceases to 
bubble. The potato absorbs some of the impurities; most of the rest 
settle to the bottom. Strain the fat through cheese-cloth, and let it 
stand undisturbed till solid. If stirred, it absorbs moisture from the air. 
Since it keeps longer if left unbroken, it is well to strain it into cups or 
any small jars you may have on hand, so that a portion may be used 
without disturbing the rest. 

When rendering the trimmings of fat meat, add a small onion (do 
not cut it), a teaspoon of salt, and a little pepper. This seasoning is 
enough for half a pint of fat. 

Keep the drippings covered and in a cool, dry place. 

SUBSTITUTES FOR BUTTER 

There are many substitutes for butter on the market such as oleo- 
margarine and nut margarine. Such butter substitutes can frequently 
be used to advantage in place of butter. As they cost about one-half 
the price of butter you can effect a decided saving by using them. 

AN EXCELLENT SUBSTITUTE FOR BUTTER. An excellent 
substitute for butter can be made in the following manner : Put l /2 tea- 
spoon of powdered gelatine in a bowl and dissolve it in 1 tablespoon of 
water. Then add ^ cup of moderately hot milk (the top of the bottle 
is best) and Y^ Ib. of oleomargarine. Beat the mixture until it is creamy, 
and then put in the ice-box to cool. This makes a splendid butter for 
table use. 

As oleomargarine costs only one-half as much as butter and as you 
get K Ib. of butter substitute by using only l / 4 Ib. of oleomargarine, you 
really get; l /> Ib. of butter substitute for >4 the price of butter by using 
the above recipe. 

11 



SAUCES 

WHITE SAUCE. 

2 tablespoons flour ^2 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter ^8 teaspoon white pepper 

1 cup milk 

Mix flour and butter together until no flour can be seen. Add milk- 
slowly and stir over moderate fire until it thickens. Remove from the 
fire and add salt and pepper. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Y-2. can tomatoes or canned 1 bay leaf 

tomato pulp 1 clove 

1 slice onion 2 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons butter or drippings 

Cook tomatoes, onion, bay leaf and clove together for ten minutes; 
strain. Rub flour and butter or drippings together until smooth and 
add strained tomatoes. Cook over moderate fire until the sauce thickens. 

BROWN SAUCE. 

2 tablespoons butter or drippings 1 cup brown stock 
YT. slice onion ^4 teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons flour y% teaspoon pepper 

Cook onion in butter or drippings until slightly browned ; remove 
onion and stir butter or drippings constantly until well browned ; add 
flour mixed with seasoning, and brown the butter or drippings and flour ; 
then add stock gradually. 

BECHAMEL SAUCE. Make a white sauce according to directions 
given. Add a cup of stock or half stock and half milk. A slice of onion, 
carrot and turnip should be fried in the butter before the flour is added. 

DRAWN BUTTER. Beat one cup of butter or butter substitute 
and two spoons of flour to a cream ; pour over this one pint of boil- 
ing water; set on fire and let it come to a boil, but do not boil. Serve 
immediately. 

EGG SAUCE. To a pint, or two cups, of white sauce, add three 
hard-boiled eggs cut into slices or small dice, and, if liked, a tablespoon 
of chopped parsley. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL SAUCE. Two tablespoons of butter or butter 
substitute, one tablespoon of chopped parsley, one tablespoon of lemon 
juice, half teaspoon of salt, half teaspoon of pepper. 

Rub the butter or butter substitute to a cream ; add salt, pepper and 
parsley chopped very fine; then the lemon-juice slowly. Spread it on 
broiled meat or fish ; let the heat of the meat melt the sauce. The dish 
must not be put in the oven after the sauce is spread, or the parsley will 
lose its freshness and color. This sauce, which greatly improves as well 
as garnishes broiled meat, can be mixed and kept for some time in a 

12 



SAUCES 

cool place. Soften a little before using, so it will spread evenly, and be 
quickly melted by the hot meat or fish. 

TARTARE SAUCE. To a cup of Mayonnaise made with mus- 
tard, add one tablespoon of capers, three olives, and two gherkins, 
all chopped very fine. A good Tartare sauce can be made by using Tar- 
ragon vinegar and a little onion-juice when mixing the Mayonnaise, and 
adding parsley and capers, both chopped very fine, just before serving it. 

SUGAR SYRUP. Put two cups of sugar and a half cup of water 
into a saucepan on the fire. Stir until the sugar is dissolved, then let 
it cook slowly without touching it for about 10 minutes, or until it is a 
clear syrup. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

2 teaspoons arrowroot or 1 cup sugar 

corn-starch Grated rind and juice of 1 lemon 

2 cups water \ T / 2 tablespoons butter 

Mix arrowroot or corn-starch with sugar. Add boiling water and 
cook twenty minutes. Add flavoring and butter. Serve hot. 



*>s 

B, \ 

UNIVERSITV 



V 

OF THE 



SALAD DRESSINGS 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. Success in making a mayonnaise 
dressing generally depends upon all the ingredients being of the same 
temperature. 

1 egg 1 tablespoon vinegar 

1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

J /4 teaspoon cayenne 1 cup olive oil 

1 teaspoon mustard l /^ teaspoon paprika 

Mix salt, cayenne, mustard and paprika. Beat yolk well, and add to 
seasonings ; beat until mixture is thick, adding olive oil, drop by drop, 
for the first four tablespoons, then more rapidly until oil is used, thin- 
ning as needed with lemon juice and vinegar. Beat up the white of the 
egg until perfectly stiff and dry, add to the above and mix thoroughly. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

4 tablespoons olive oil *4 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon vinegar J/6 teaspoon pepper 

Put the salt and pepper in the salad bowl, or in a small bowl if the 
sauce is to be served separately. Add a little oil and stir well, then 
gradually add the remainder of the oil, stirring all the while. Last of 
all stir in the vinegar, which should be diluted with water if very strong. 

This sauce may be modified to suit different vegetables. As it is 
given it is right for lettuce, chicory, cooked asparagus, cauliflower, arti- 
choke, etc. 

Cream may be substituted for the oil, but the salad is not so rich. 

COOKED SALAD DRESSING. 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 

l /2 cup vinegar 1 teaspoon mustard 

1 cup milk Y$ teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon oil or butter 

Put the oil and dry ingredients into a bowl and mix well. Add the 
eggs and beat for five minutes, then add the vinegar and beat one 
minute. Now add the milk, place the bowl in a pan of boiling water, 
and cook until the sauce thickens like thin cream. It will take about 
ten minutes. Stir the sauce constantly while cooking. Cool and bottle 
what you do not require for immediate use. This sauce is good for 
nearly all kinds of cooked vegetables. 

If butter is substituted for the oil, add it just before taking the 
sauce from the fire. 

SOUR CREAM DRESSING. 

Y> pint sour cream 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons lemon juice 54 teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons vinegar 1 teaspoon or more mixed 
1 scant tablespoon sugar mustard 

Beat the cream with an egg beater until smooth, thick, and light. 

14 



SALAD DRESSINGS 

Mix the other ingredients together and gradually add to the cream, 
beating all the while. 

This dressing may be modified to suit different vegetables. Hav- 
ing beaten sour cream for a foundation the seasoning may be anything 
desired, as, for example, the mustard and lemon may be omitted and 
the dressing be seasoned highly with any kind of catsup. 

A sweet cream may be substituted for the sour; it should be quite 
thick. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING. 

1 cup cream (sweet or sour) 2 tablespoons vinegar 
*/2 cup tomato catsup 2 tablespoons sugar 

2 tablespoons olive oil 1 teaspoon salt 

Mix the oil, salt, sugar, and vinegar together, then beat in the 
catsup and finally add the cream, beating it in gradually. 

This dressing is very good for vegetables, or for fish salads. 



15 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT 

You eat in order to keep yourself alive. 

The work you do, the exercise you take, the thoughts you think, 
each breath you draw all these use up a certain proportion of your 
body each day. If you want to live and keep well, this used-up portion 
must be replaced, and this is done through the food you eat. Part of 
your food furnishes you with' new blood ; part of it goes to make bone ; 
part of it builds up new tissue or flesh, etc. 

Meat has always been considered the best tissue or flesh-building 
food, and for this reason people have always eaten it a great deal. Most 
of our meat has come from the Western states, but the tremendously 
large ranches of twenty years ago are gradually being cut up into small 
farms and cattle are not being raised in such large numbers any more. 
This is one reason why meat costs so much. Another reason is the great 
demand there is for it on the part of our people who do not know that 
there are other foods that will supply the needs of the body in just the 
same way that meat does and which in ordinary times do not cost as 
much as meat. For instance, we can use fish in place of meat much 
more than we do. Other foods that can be used in place of meat are 
eggs, milk, creamed soups, macaroni, cheese, cereals, peas, beans, lentils, 
nuts and bananas. 

EGGS contain all the elements, in the right proportion, necessary 
for the support of the body. They are rich in the same flesh-building 
elements as the lean of meat, and, therefore, make an excellent substi- 
tute for meat. They should be eaten with foods that are rich in starch, 
such as bread and potatoes. If so eaten, they will take care of your body 
just as completely as meat would. 

MILK contains heat-giving, energy-giving and tissue-building prop- 
erties. Cream soups and purees made with milk and the pulp of vege- 
tables can take the place of meat. 

MACARONI, SPAGHETTI and NOODLES contain so much 
starch and flesh-building material that they are equal to meat as a food 
if combined with cheese. The fat that they lack is supplied by the 
cheese, and when so combined they make a perfect food. 

CHEESE contains in a condensed form the same flesh-building 
material as meat and can be used in place of it. If combined with 
macaroni, rice, etc., it will supply all the needs of the body. 

CEREALS contain in varying proportion all the elements necessary 
to support life. They contain a great deal of starch, which is valuable 
as an energy giver. Oatmeal and corn-meal contain more fat than the 
other cereals, and, therefore, make a good winter food, especially for 
hard-working people. Cereals with cooked fruits are particularly 
appetizing. 

16 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT 

PEAS, BEANS and LENTILS are richer in flesh-building mate- 
rial than any other vegetable and can be used in place of meat. Lentils 
are more easily digested than either peas or beans. If properly pre- 
pared, all these make very appetizing dishes. A dish of baked beans, 
costing about 20 cents, will furnish a family of six with more nourish- 
ment than two pounds of beef costing 50 cents. 

NUTS contain in a condensed form the same flesh-building mate- 
rial as meat. Some of them contain a great deal of fat as well. They 
should not be eaten between meals, but, either raw or cooked, they can 
be used in place of meat. A pound of shelled almonds is equal in food 
value to three pounds of steak. Hickory-nuts and pecans added to 
muffins or yeast breads may be used as a substitute for meat. Peanuts 
are also rich in fat and flesh-building material. 

BANANAS contain most of the nourishment that meat does, and if 
eaten with bread and butter make an excellent lunch without the addi- 
tion of meat. Most children prefer banana sandwiches to meat sand- 
wiches, and they cost much less. 

In stating that these dishes can be used in place of meat it is not 
our purpose to urge you to give up eating meat altogether. It is a fact, 
however, that as a people we eat too much meat, and you would un- 
doubtedly find yourself much benefited physically if you would cut 
down on the amount of meat you eat and vary your diet more than 
you do. 

You do not have to eat meat in order to keep well and strong. A 
great many people never eat meat at all, but find in other foods aH^ffce 
strength and life-giving properties they require. 

If our meat supply continues to dwindle in the future as it has in 
the past, meat will some day be very scarce, and sooner or later you will 
have to learn to use other foods in place of meat. 

BEGIN TO LEARN RIGHT NOW. 



17 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 



EGGS 

EGGS WITH CHEESE 

Pepper 



j/2 cup milk Salt 

1 tablespoon butter or drippings Cayenne 

2 tablespoons grated cheese 

Heat a small omelet pan, put in butter or drippings, and, when 
melted, add milk. Slip in the eggs one at a time ; sprinkle with 
salt, pepper and a few grains of cayenne. When whites are nearly firm 
sprinkle with cheese. Finish cooking, and serve on buttered toast. 
Pour sauce from the pan over the eggs. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH TOMATOES 

4 eggs y\. teaspoon paprika 

J^2 cup stewed and strained tomatoes 2 tablespoons butter or 
or canned tomato pulp drippings 

Y-2. teaspoon salt 

Beat eggs slightly and add tomatoes, salt and paprika. Melt butter 
or drippings in a frying-pan, add seasoned eggs, and cook same 
as scrambled eggs. Butter slices of toasted bread. Pour eggs over the 
toast and sprinkle with parsley. 

EGGS BAKED IN TOMATOES. Eggs may be baked in small 
tomatoes. Cut a slice from stem end of tomato, scoop out the pulp, slip 
in an egg, sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover with buttered crumbs 
and bake. 

POACHED EGGS WITH CHEESE. Arrange poached eggs on 
a shallow buttered dish. Sprinkle with grated cheese. Pour over eggs 
one pint white sauce. Cover with stale bread crumbs and sprinkle with 
grated cheese. Brown in oven. Tomato sauce may be used instead of 
white sauce. 

CHEESE OMELET. 

2 eggs y 2 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon melted butter or Few grains cayenne 

drippings 1 tablespoon grated cheese 

Beat eggs slightly; add one-half teaspoonful of melted butter or 
drippings, salt, cayenne and cheese. Melt remaining butter or drip- 
pings in frying-pan, add mixture and cook until firm without stirr- 
ing. Roll and sprinkle with grated cheese. 

BREAD OMELET. 

3 eggs y> cup of bread crumbs 
% teaspoon salt y 2 cup of milk 

1 dash of black pepper Piece of butter or butter substitute, 

size of walnut 

18 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

Beat the eggs separately. Add to the yolks the milk, salt, pepper 
and the bread crumbs. Now stir into this carefully the beaten whites ; 
mix very lightly. Put the butter or butter substitute in a very smooth 
frying-pan ; as soon as hot turn in the mixture gently, and set it over a 
clear fire, being very careful not to burn ; shake occasionally to see that 
the omelet does not stick. Now stand your frying-pan in the oven for a 
moment to set the middle of the omelet. When done, toss it over on a 
warm platter to bring the brown side of the omelet uppermost; or, it 
may be folded in half and then turned out in the center of the platter. 
Serve immediately or it will fall. 

CREAMED CHEESE AND EGGS. 

3 hard boiled eggs 1 tablespoon flour 
y 2 teaspoon salt Few grains cayenne 

4 slices toast 1 cup milk 

Y cup grated cheese 

Make a thin white sauce with flour, milk and seasoning. Add 
cheese, stir till melted. Chop egg whites and add to sauce. Pour over 
toast. Force yolks through a strainer. Sprinkle over the toast. 

SOUPS 

Soup is thought to be an expensive luxury by some people, but it is 
really a means of economy; for a tempting and nutritious soup can be 
made of the cheapest materials, including remnants of food that cannot 
be used in any other way. 

Barley is very nourishing and can be used instead of flour to thicken 
any soup. Directions : Wash barley and soak overnight. Next day add 
water to the barley and boil it for three or four hours. Then press it 
through a sieve and add it to the soup. This thickening can be used in 
any cream soup in place of flour. 

CREAM OF POTATO SOUP. 

1 qt. milk or milk and water \y 2 tablespoons flour 
1J4 cups potatoes mashed 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter or butter Few grains pepper 
substitute 1 sliced onion 

1 bay leaf 

Put the onion and bay leaf into the milk and heat to the scalding 
point. Remove the onion and bay leaf and add the mashed potatoes. 
Stir until smooth; then add the flour and butter or butter substitute 
rubbed together. Cook until it thickens slightly. Add seasoning and 
sprinkle over with finely chopped parsley. 

CREAM OF PEA SOUP. 

1 can peas 1 slice onion 

2 teaspoons sugar 2 tablespoons butter or drippings 
1 pint water 2 tablespoons flour 

1 pint milk 1 teaspoon salt 

y% teaspoon pepper 

Drain peas from their liquor, add sugar and cold water and simmer 

19 



c'7 

SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

twenty minutes. Rub through a sieve, reheat and thicken with butter 
or v drippings and flour cooked together. Scald milk with onion, 
remove onion and add milk to pea mixture. Left-over peas can be used 
in place of canned peas. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP. 

Small can of tomatoes or 1 quart milk 

canned tomato pulp 1 slice onion 

2 tablespoons butter or 1 slice green pepper 

drippings Salt and pepper to taste 

2 tablespoons flour Few grains cayenne 

*4 teaspoon of bicarbonate of soda 

Put tomatoes, onion and green pepper into a saucepan and cook 
slowly for about ten minutes ; then put through a strainer. Rub flour 
and butter or drippings together unitil smooth. Add this to the 
milk and stir over moderate fire until it thickens slightly. Add soda to 
the tomato juice and pour the milk into the tomato juice. Do not com- 
bine tomato and milk until ready to serve. 

CREAM OF CAULIFLOWER SOUP. 

4 cups hot stock or water y 2 bay leaf 

1 cauliflower *4 CU P flour 

2 tablespoons butter or drippings 2 cups milk 
1 slice onion Salt 

1 stalk celery cut in inch pieces, Pepper 
or */ teaspoon celery salt 

Soak cauliflower, head down, one hour in enough cold water to 
cover; cook in boiling salted water twenty minutes, Reserve one-half 
flowerets, and rub remaining cauliflower through sieve. Cook onion, 
celery, and bay leaf in butter or drippings five minutes. Remove bay 
leaf, then add flour and stir into hot stock or water; add cauliflower 
and milk. Season with salt and pepper; then strain, add flowerets, and 
reheat. 

CREAM OF CARROT SOUP. 

Carrots \ l / 2 teaspoons salt 

2 slices onion Few grains cayenne 
Sprig parsley 2 cups water 

*4 cup rice 2 cups scalded milk 

2 tablespoons butter or 2 tablespoons flour 

drippings 

Chop enough carrots to make two cups. Cook in water until tender. 
Press through sieve, keeping the water the carrots were cooked in. Cook 
rice in milk in double boiler. Cook onion in butter or drippings ; add 
flour and seasonings. Mix carrots with rice and milk, and add butter 
or drippings, flour and the water the carrots were cooked in ; bring to the 
boiling point, strain and serve. Garnish with chopped parsley. If this 
soup seems too tnick thin with milk. 

20 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

CREAM OF CABBAGE SOUP. 

1 small cabbage 2 tablespoons butter or drippings 

2 cups water 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups milk Yz teaspoon pepper 

3 slices onion Few grains cayenne 
2 tablespoons flour 

Chop cabbage, add water, and cook until tender; press through a 
sieve. Melt butter or drippings, add chopped onion, cook slowly 
five minutes, add flour, scalded milk and cabbage mixture ; cook five 
minutes. Add seasonings, strain and serve. 

CREAM OF RICE SOUP. 

1 cup rice 1 cup milk 

6 cups cold water 2 tablespoons butter or drippings 

1 small onion 2 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley Salt and pepper 

Cook rice and onion in cold water until rice is tender. Press 
through a sieve. Melt butter or drippings, add flour, milk, and season- 
ings ; boil five minutes. Combine mixtures. Add parsley and serve. 
(The parsley can be left out if not wanted.) 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS; CREAM OF GREEN PEAS; 
CREAM OF STRING BEANS; CREAM OF SPINACH; CREAM 
OF CORN; CREAM OF CELERY. These soups are very delicate, 
and are much esteemed. They are all made in the same way. The 
vegetable is boiled until soft, and is then pressed through a sieve. A 
pint of the vegetable pulp is diluted with a quart of stock or water (the 
stock may be veal, beef or chicken broth). It is thickened with one 
tablespoon of butter or drippings, and two tablespoons of flour 
rubbed together until smooth, and seasoned with pepper and salt. Re- 
move from the stove and add one cup of milk; then strain again, so it 
will be perfectly smoth. 

POTATO CHOWDER. 

6 good-sized potatoes 1 tablespoon flour 

J4 lb. salt pork 1 pint milk 

1 onion 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 tablespoon butter or 1 teaspoon salt 

drippings l / 2 teaspoon pepper 

Cut the potatoes into dice ; then cut the pork into small pieces, and 
put the pork with the sliced onion into a frying-pan, and fry until a 
light brown. 

Put into a kettle a layer of potatoes, then a layer of onions and pork, 
and sprinkle with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. Repeat this until 
all the potatoes, pork, onions, and parsley are in. Pour over them the 
grease from the pan in which the pork and onions were fried. Add one 
pint of water, cover, and let simmer twenty minutes. Scald the milk 
in a double, boiler, and add the flour and butter or drippings, rubbed 
together until smooth. Add this to the pot when the potatoes are 
tender, and stir carefully together, so as not to break the potatoes. 
Taste to se'e if the seasoning is right. Serve very hot. 

21 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

CORN CHOWDER. 

* 1 can corn 3 cups water 

1 cup salt pork cut in cubes 2 cups milk 

1 cup potatoes 1 tablespoon butter or drippings 
*/2 cup onion 1 tablespoon flour 

Salt and pepper y 2 cup cracker crumbs 

Cook salt pork in frying-pan five minutes ; add onion and cook until 
yellow. Parboil potatoes five minutes; add to onion with corn and 
water; cook twenty minutes. Thicken milk with butter or drippings 
and flour cooked together. Combine mixtures; add cracker crumbs and 
seasonings, and serve. 

Succotash may be substituted for corn. 

CHESTNUT SOUP. 

2 cups chestnuts shelled and Cayenne 
blanched Nutmeg 

3 cups cold water 2 tablespoons onion 

2 cups scalded milk 2 tablespoons butter or drippings 

y% teaspoon celery salt 2 tablespoons flour 

Salt 1 cup milk 

Cook chestnuts in cold water until tender, press through a sieve, 
and add scalded milk. Cook onion in butter or drippings five minutes, 
add flour, seasonings and chestnut mixture. Cook five minutes, add 
milk, strain and serve. 

Note To shell chestnuts, make a cross on either side of the nut 
with a sharp knife. Put one teaspoon melted butter or drippings 
in dripping-pan; add chestnuts and cook in oven until shells come off 
easily. 

EGG SOUP (Four Persons). 

4 cups of milk 4 eggs 

4 level teaspoons of flour y 2 teaspoon of salt 

Pinch of pepper 

Boil two of the eggs hard ; put the milk into the double boiler, and 
when heated stir in thoroughly the flour, wet in cold milk. Cook from 
fifteen to twenty minutes, stirring frequently, and stir in two of the eggs, 
which have been beaten very light, stirring constantly over the fire for 
two minutes. Add the seasoning; chop the hard-boiled egg very fine, 
sprinkle over the top of soup, and serve. 

CHEESE SOUP. 

2 tablespoons of cheese *4 teaspoon of pepper 

1 quart of hot milk ^2 teaspoon of salt 

2 well-beaten eggs 1 cupful boiled rice or spaghetti 

In a large saucepan melt the cheese with a little milk. When the 
cheese is melted, slowly add one quart of hot milk (do not let the 
milk come to a boil, keep stirring constantly). Then stir in the two well- 
beaten eggs, adding them very slowly to prevent curdling. Cook for 
five minutes, adding the seasoning and one cupful of boiled rice or 
spaghetti, but d-.- >, " let the mixture boil at any time. 

22 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

SPLIT-PEA OR BEAN SOUP. 

1 cup of split peas, or 2 quarts of water 

1 cup of dried beans 1 tablespoon of flour 

1 tablespoon of butter or Salt and pepper to taste 

drippings 

Let the peas or beans soak overnight in three quarts of cold water. 
Drain off water and put the soaked peas or beans into a saucepan with 
two quarts of water and a ham-bone, if you have it, otherwise it may 
be omitted. Let simmer for four or five hours, or until the peas or 
beans are perfectly soft. (Add more water from time to time, if 
necessary.) Press through a sieve; adding enough stock or water to 
make a soup of the consistency of cream. Put it again into a saucepan 
on the fire ; season, and add one tablespoon of butter or drippings and 
one table-spoon of flour rubbed together until smooth. 

An onion may be boiled with the peas or beans if desired. 
Serve croutons with the soup. (Croutons are small pieces of bread 
fried in butter or drippings.) 

BAKED BEAN SOUP. 

3 cups cold baked beans 2 tablespoons butter or drip- 

3 pints water pings 

2 slices onion 2 tablespoons flour 

l l /2 cups stewed and strained toma- Salt 
toes or canned tomato pulp Pepper 

Put beans, water, and onion in saucepan ; bring to boiling point and 
simmer thirty minutes. Rub through a sieve, add tomato, season to 
taste with salt and pepper, and mix with the butter or drippings and 
flour cooked together. Serve with crisp crackers. 

LENTIL SOUP. To the contents of a can of lentils add some 
broth or water, chopped parsley and onions, brown sauce or butter or 
drippings and flour. Also, if desired, a few pieces of Frankfurt 
sausage. Boil five minutes and serve. 

CREAM OF LENTIL SOUP. Two cups of canned lentils, eight 
cups water, three tablespoons chopped onions, two tablespoons butter 
or drippings, two tablespoons flour, two cups milk. Cook the 
onions ten minutes, add to the lentils and press through a sieve. Melt 
butter or drippings, add flour and milk and cook five minutes. 
Combine the mixtures, season to taste and serve with small pieces of 
bread fried in butter or drippings. 

MACARONI, SPAGHETTI and NOODLES 

BAKED MACARONI. 

l /4 pound of macaroni l / 2 cup of milk 

*4 pound of grated cheese 1 tablespoon of butter or butter 

substitute 
Salt and pepper 

Break the macaroni in convenient lengths, put it in a two-quart 
kettle and nearly fill the kettle with boiling water; add a teaspoon of salt 

23 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

and boil rapidly twenty-five minutes (the rapid boiling prevents the 
macaroni from sticking together) ; drain in a colander, then throw into 
cold water to blanch for ten minutes ; then drain again in the colander. 
Put a layer of macaroni in the bottom of a baking-dish, then a layer of 
cheese, then a sprinkling of salt and pepper, then another layer of mac- 
aroni, and so continue until all is used, having the last layer macaroni. 
Cut the butter or butter substitute in small bits ; distribute them evenly 
over the top ; add the milk and bake until a golden brown (about twenty 
minutes) in a moderately quick oven. Serve in the dish in which it was 
baked. 

MACARONI BAKED WITH TOMATOES. Arrange in a baking- 
dish layers of cooked macaroni, stewed and seasoned tomato or canned 
tomato pulp, and chopped green pepper. Dot each layer with butter 
or butter substitute. Cover all with cracker crumbs. Bake in hot oven. 

ITALIAN MACARONI. 

J4 pound of macaroni *X pint of milk 

Y^ pound of grated cheese 1 tablespoon of butter or drippings 

Salt and white pepper to taste 

Break the macaroni in convenient lengths. Put in a two-quart kettle 
and nearly fill the kettle with boiling water ; add a teaspoonful of salt 
and boil rapidly twenty-five minutes; then drain. Put the milk into a 
double boiler; add to it the butter or drippings, then the macaroni and 
cheese ; stir until thoroughly heated, add the salt and pepper, and serve. 

MACARONI WITH BROWN SAUCE. 

J4 pound of macaroni 2 tablespoons of cheese 

1 quart of stock or water Salt and pepper to taste 

Break the macaroni in pieces two inches long. Put the stock or 
water on to boil. When boiling, add the macaroni and boil rapidly for 
thirty minutes. When done, put it in a colander to drain, saving the 
liquid. Put one tablespoon of butter or drippings in a frying-pan ; add 
one tablespoon of flour, mix until smooth ; then add a half-pint of the 
stock or water in which macaroni was boiled and stir continually until 
it boils; add the cheese, then the macaroni, and let it boil up once. 
Season to taste, and serve. 

BOILED MACARONI WITH CHEESE. Put the macaroni into 
salted boiling water, and cook it twelve to fifteen minutes, or until it is 
tender. When it is cooked, drain ofif all the water and cover the hot 
macaroni ""with grated cheese. With two forks mix lightly the cheese 
with the macaroni. Turn it into the hot serving-dish, and pour over it 
the sauce given below. Serve at once. 

SAUCE FOR MACARONI. Put into a saucepan one and a half 
tablespoons of butter or drippings. Add a small onion chopped fine. 
Cook until all are browned ; then add three tablespoons of the water 
in which the macaroni was boiled and a teaspoonful of beef extract. 
Add, also, three or four soaked mushrooms and let it simmer for five 
minutes. 

This amount of uce is enough for a pound of macaroni. 

24 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

The mushrooms given in this recipe are the dried cepes, which can 
be bought by the pound at Italian groceries. They are the best, after the 
fresh mushrooms, to use for sauces. They should not be cooked longer 
than five minutes to give their best flavor. 

The beef extract and the mushrooms can both be left out, if desired. 

MACARONI OR SPAGHETTI WITH TOMATO SAUCE. Boil 
macaroni or spaghetti in water for thirty minutes; drain off the water 
and serve the macaroni with tomato sauce and cheese. 

MACARONI CROQUETTES. 

6 ounces of macaroni J^ pint of milk 

1 tablespoon of butter or drip- 2 tablespoons of flour 
pings Salt and pepper to taste 

2 tablespoons of grated cheese 

Break the macaroni in pieces about two inches long. Put it in a 
kettle nearly full of boiling water, and boil rapidly twenty-five minutes. 
When done, put it in a colander to drain ; then cut it in pieces a half- 
inch long. Scald the milk. Rub the butter or drippings and flour to- 
gether until smooth ; stir into the milk when boiling, and stir continually 
until it thickens ; then add the cheese and macaroni, salt and pepper, 
cook one minute longer; then turn out on a plate to cool. When cold, 
form into croquettes ; roll first in egg and then in bread crumbs, and 
fry in deep hot fat. Serve with cream sauce. 

MACARONI TIMBALE. 

6 ounces of left-over meat or 1 teaspoon of tomato catsup 

vegetables 2 ounces of macaroni boiled and 

4 tablespoons of bread crumbs cut in pieces one inch long 
1 tablespoon of stock or gravy 

Mix the crumbs and meat or vegetables well together; then add the 
stock or gravy, seasoning and catsup. Grease a plain pudding mould, 
and line it with the boiled macaroni ; fill with the mixture, and press in 
compactly. Put the lid on the mould and fasten it. Then stand the 
mould in a kettle, with sufficient boiling water to cover it about two- 
thirds. Now put the lid on the kettle, and boil for one hour. When 
done, turn it from the mould, pour cream sauce around it, and serve. 

NOODLES. Throw a few noodles at a time into boiling, salted 
water; boil them until they are done, separating them carefully with a 
fork to prevent their matting together. Skim them out when done, 
and keep them on a warm dish in a warm oven until enough are cooked. 
Season with butter. Put them in the dish in which they are to be served, 
and sprinkle over them bread crumbs browned in hot drippings to a 
golden color. This dish may be served with fish, with meat, or as a 
course by itself. Noodles may also be cooked like macaroni, with 
cheese. 

25 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 



CHEESE 



in small 



CHEESE RELISH. 

1 cup bread broken 

pieces 

y 2 cup cheese 
1 teaspoon salt 
% teaspoon pepper 
Mix ingredients well, place in greased baking-dish and bake 25 



1 cup milk 
1 egg 

1 tablespoon butter or drip- 
pings 



mnutes. 



CHEESE FONDUE. 

1 cup scalded milk 
1 cup stale bread crumbs 
y^ lb. mild cheese (in small 
pieces) 



1 tablespoon butter or butter 

substitute 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
3 eggs 



Mix first five ingredients ; add yolks of eggs beaten until stiff. Fold 
in whites of eggs beaten until stiff. Pour into greased baking-dish and 
bake twenty minutes in moderate oven. 

CREAM TOAST WITH CHEESE. Make toast; make white 
sauce. To white sauce, just before taking from the fire, add y>. cup 
of grated cheese. When this is melted, pour over the toast. 

CEREALS 

OATMEAL MUFFINS. (See page 94.) 
RAISED OATMEAL MUFFINS. 



cup scalded milk 
cup sugar 
teaspoon salt 



l /4 yeast cake dissolved in 
*4 cup lukewarm milk 
1 cup cold cooked oatmeal 
2 l / 2 cups flour 

Add sugar and salt to scalded milk; when lukewarm, add dissolved 
yeast cake. Work oatmeal into flour with tips of fingers, and add to 
first mixture; beat thoroughly, cover, and let rise overnight. In morn- 
ing, fill greased iron gem pans two-thirds full, let rise on back of 
range that pan may gradually heat and mixture rise to fill pan. Bake 
in moderate oven twenty-five to thirty minutes. 

RAISED HOMINY MUFFINS. 

1 cup warm cooked hominy l / 2 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter or any fat y\. yeast cake 

1 cup scalded milk 54 cup lukewarm water 

3 tablespoons sugar 3*4 cups flour 

Mix first five ingredients ; when lukewarm add yeast cake, dis- 
solved in lukewarm water, and flour. Cover, and let rise overnight. 
In the morning, fill hot greased gem pans two-thirds full, let rise one 
hour, and bake in a moderate oven. Unless cooked hominy is rather 
stiff, more flour will be needed. 

26 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

POLENTA. 

2 cups boiling water 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup yellow corn-meal 2 tablespoons of butter 

2 cups cold water 4 tablespoons grated cheese 
Mix the corn-flour with the cold water and stir into the boiling 

water, to which the salt has been added ; stir constantly until the mix- 
ture boils; then occasionally for at least an hour. When about half 
cooked add the butter and the cheese. 

Serve hot ; or, when cold, cut in squares and fry. 

SAVORY RICE. 

2 tablespoons butter or 3 tablespoons grated cheese 

drippings 1 chopped hard-boiled egg 

C, tablespoons boiled rice Milk 

4 tablespoons chopped cooked carrots 

Melt the butter or drippings and add the rice, carrots, cheese and 
egg. Moisten with milk and season well. Heap on a dish and brown 
in the oven. (The hard-boiled egg can be left out, if not wanted.) In 
food value this dish takes the place of both meat and potatoes. 

RICE BALLS WITH CHEESE AND TOMATO SAUCE. Make 
balls of cooked rice and dip them in grated cheese. Bake in a hot oven 
until cheese is brown. Serve with tomato sauce. 

CHEESED RICE. 

1 can tomatoes or canned y 2 Ib. cheese 

tomato pulp Salt 

1 cup cooked rice Paprika 

Spread in a baking-dish in layers with cheese on top. Bake in 
moderate oven until cheese is brown. 

RICE WITH CHEESE. 

2 cups cooked rice y 2 cup grated cheese 
2 tablespoons butter or Few grains pepper 

drippings Milk 

YT. teaspoon salt 

Arrange rice and cheese in alternate layers in buttered baking-dish, 
add remaining ingredients, adding sufficient milk to moisten. Cover 
with bread crumbs. Bake until crumbs are brown. In food value this 
dish will take the place of both meat and potatoes. 

RICE WITH TOMATOES. Wash and drain one-half cup rice, 
cook in one tablespoon b'utter or dripping until brown, add one cup 
boiling water, and steam until water is absorbed. Add one and 
three-fourths cups hot stewed tomatoes or .canned tomato pulp, cook 
until rice is soft, and season with salt and pepper. 

RICE AND CHEESE CROQUETTES. 

1 cup rice Salt and pepper 

4 cups milk 1 egg 

1 cup cheese 1 cup thick white sauce 

27 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

Cook rice in milk; when milk is absorbed add cheese, seasoning 
and egg and enough sauce to make of the consistency to shape. Shape, 
dip in crumbs, then egg and crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 

BAKED RICE AND CHEESE. 

3 cups boiled rice 1 cup milk 

y-2. pound cheese *X teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour 

Make sauce by thickening milk with flour. Add cheese, stirring 
until it is melted. Arrange layers of rice and sauce in baking-dish, 
cover with crumbs and bake until brown. In food value this dish takes 
the place of both meat and potatoes. 

RICE MUFFINS. 

2% cups flour 1 egg 

94 cup hot cooked rice 2 tablespoons melted butter or 

5 teaspoons baking-powder any fat 

2 tablespoons sugar y 2 teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 

Mix and sift flour, sugar, salt and baking-powder ; add one-half milk, 
egg well beaten, the remainder of the milk mixed with rice, and beat 
thoroughly ; then add butter or fat. Bake in greased muffin rings placed 
in greased pan or bake in greased gem pans. 

PEAS 

PEA TIMBALES. Drain and rinse one can peas, and rub through 
a sieve. To one cup pea pulp add two beaten eggs, two tablespoons 
melted butter or drippings, two-thirds teaspoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon 
pepper, few grains cayenne, and a few drops onion juice. Turn into 
greased moulds, set in pan of hot water, cover with greased paper, and 
bake until firm. Serve with one cup white sauce to which is added 
one-third cup canned peas drained, rinsed and cooked slowly for fifteen- 
minutes. 

CREAMED PEAS. 

2 cups of boiled peas % C11 P white sauce 

Cook the peas; add them to the white sauce and then cook gently 
for about two minutes. If left-over peas are used, heat slightly before 
adding to the white sauce. 

SPRING SALAD. 

Cold cooked green peas Cold boiled potatoes 

Cut potatoes into dice. Mix peas and potatoes together with may- 
onnaise dressing, then serve on lettuce leaves. 

BEANS 

BAKED BEANS. Soak beans overnight in cold water. In the 
morning drain off the water and cover with fresh water. Cook beans 
gently until skin<* begin to break. Place a layer of beans in a bean 
pot or deep earthen ( hsh and on this layer in the center of the dish place 
a piece of salt pork . s- ireak of fat and streak of lean), have rind side up. 

28 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

For each quart of beans use one-half pound pork; score the rind. Fill 
dish with beans, add seasoning and water to cover. (One tablespoon 
salt and one-half teaspoon pepper to one quart beans.) Mix seasoning 
with the water. One tablespoon mustard may be added ; also one-half 
tablespoon molasses and one onion. Instead of pork, a piece of salt or 
fat beef or mutton may be used, or the fat trimmed from a cooked piece 
of corned beef. In this case use one and one-half to two pounds meat 
to one quart of beans. If fresh meat is used, add more salt. If all meat 
is used, one teaspoon salt is sufficient. When mutton is used, trim off 
every particle of skin. Bake the beans in a very moderate oven eight to 
ten hours. Add a little boiling water from time to time, but never 
enough to bring the water above the beans. Do not cover beans while 
baking. 

BEAN POLENTA. 

1 pint of small white beans 1 tablespoon of butter or drip- 

\y 2 tablespoons of molasses pings 

]/2 teaspoon mustard 1 tablespoon of vinegar 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Wash the beans and soak them overnight in cold water. In 
the morning, drain off this water, cover with fresh, cold water, bring 
slowly to a boil, and boil slowly one hour; drain again, cover with one 
quart of fresh boiling water, and boil slowly another hour. When done, 
press through a colander, return to the kettle, add the butter or drip- 
pings, molasses, mustard, salt, pepper and vinegar; stir, and boil ten 
minutes. 

BEAN CROQUETTES. 

1 pint of white beans 1 tablespoon of butter or drip- 

1 tablespoon of vinegar pings 

1 tablespoon of molasses Salt and pepper to taste 

Boil the beans as directed in preceding recipe. When done, drain 
and press the beans through a colander, then add the other ingredients, 
mix well and stand away to cool. When cold, form into small balls, dip 
first in egg and then in bread crumbs, and fry in deep hot fat. 

PUREE OF BEANS. See Puree of Dried Beans, page 57. 

BOSTON ROAST. 

1-pound can kidney beans, or */ 2 pound grated cheese 
same quantity cooked beans. Bread crumbs 

Salt 

Mash beans or put through a meat grinder. Add cheese and enough 
bread crumbs to make a stiff roll. Bake in a moderate oven, basting 
occasionally with butter and water. Serve with tomato sauce. The dish 
may be flavored with onions chopped and cooked in drippings. 

KIDNEY BEANS WITH BROWN SAUCE. Put one table- 
spoon of 'butter or dripping in a saucepan and brown until dark, 
but do not burn it. Add one tablespoon flour ; stir and brown again. 
Add cup good stock (beef is best) ; season with salt and pepper. 

29 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

Cook one pint fresh shelled beans in salted water until tender. Add 
the sauce, and cook one minute longer. 

LENTILS 

BAKED LENTILS. 

1 quart lentils ^2 teaspoon pepper 

1 quart water 6 ounces salt pork 

1 teaspoon salt 1 small onion 

Pick over and wash lentils. Soak in water overnight. In morning, 
pour water off. Put lentils in stew-pan with two quarts cold water and 
heat slowly. As water boils, the lentils will rise to the top. Remove 
them with a skimmer and place in a deep earthen dish with pork and 
onion in the center. Mix salt and pepper with one quart boiling water 
and add. Cook slowly in moderate oven four to five hours, adding a 
little water from time to time. If pork is not very salt, more salt should 
be added. 

STEWED LENTILS are prepared in the same way, but using 
more water. Instead of pork, fat corned beef or the shank of a ham 
may be used. 

CURRIED LENTILS. 

1 cup lentils 3 tablespoons butter or drip- 

1 pint vegetable stock or water pings 

1 teaspoon salt 2 onions 

1 tablespoon curry-powder 

Wash the lentils and soak them. Drain and cook in the stock or 
water one hour. When done they should be a dry mass. Melt the 
butter or drippings, add sliced onions and curry powder. Fry until 
the onions are brown. Add lentils. Season and heat. Serve with 
boiled rice. 

LENTILS AND RICE. Boil the lentils as directed in the pre- 
ceding recipe. Wash and boil one cup of rice. Put two tablespoons 
of butter or drippings in a frying-pan ; when melted add one onion cut 
in slices, then the lentils and rice, and stir over the fire fifteen minutes ; 
add salt and pepper to taste and serve. 

LENTIL CROQUETTES. Thoroughly soak one cup of lentils 
and one-half cup beans. Drain and add two cups of water, half 
an onion, a stalk of celery or one-half teaspoon celery salt, one small 
carrot sliced and three sprigs of parsley. Cook until a pulp, strain 
through a sieve and add one cup grated bread crumbs, one beaten egg, 
pepper and salt to taste. Make a sauce by creaming two tablespoons 
of butter and pouring on gradually two-thirds of a cup of milk. Bring 
to the boiling point and add lentil mixture. Mix thoroughly. When 
cool form in balls, dip in egg and crumbs and fry in deep hot fat. 

LENTILS AND RICE CROQUETTES. Rub one cup of canned 
lentils through a colander. Mix with one cup of cooked rice, one-half 
cup of miik, un** beaten egg, sage and salt to taste. Form into cro- 
quettes, roll in beat ^ egg and then in bread crumbs. Spread a little 
milk on top and b: .\.v 10 a nice brown. 

30 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

LOUISIANA LENTILS. 

1 cup lentils 2 tablespoons butter or drip- 

1 onion pings 

2 cups tomatoes or canned to- 3 red peppers 

mato pulp 

Soak the lentils about eight hours. Drain, cover with fresh water 
and cook very slowly for half hour. Bring to boiling point, drain, cover 
with hot water and simmer until they become tender; melt the butter or 
drippings in a baking-dish. Add the onion and red peppers chopped fine. 
Stir and cook until the butter or drippings is browned. Put in the 
tomatoes and salt and pepper to taste. Drain the lentils and add them. 
Cook uncovered for thirty minutes. 

LENTIL PANCAKES. Mash two cups of canned lentils, and 
press through a sieve. Season with salt, pepper and drippings, cool, and 
add two eggs beaten with a cup of milk. Add a cup of flour sifted 
with half a teaspoon baking-powder, mix thoroughly, and fry on greased 
griddle. 

NUTS 

NUT LOAF. 

2 cups soft bread crumbs 1 egg 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon Kitchen Bouquet 

2 cups chopped nuts % teaspoon pepper 

y-2 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon butter or drippings 

Soak the crumbs in milk until soft, add remaining ingredients. 

Pour into bread-pan, baste with water or drippings, and bake one hour. 

Serve hot or cold with tomato sauce. 
NUT AND CHEESE ROAST. 

1 cup grated cheese 1 tablespoon butter or drip- 

1 cup bread crumbs pings 

Juice y-2 lemon 2 tablespoons onion 

1 cup chopped nuts Salt 

Pepper 

Cook chopped onion in the butter or drippings and a little water 
until tender. Mix other ingredients, moisten with water, using that in 
which onion was cooked. Pour into a shallow baking-dish and brown 
in the oven. 

NUT SCRAPPLE. 

2 quarts boiling water 1 cup hominy 

2 cups corn meal 1 tablespoon salt 

2 cups nut meats 

Cook the corn-meal and hominy together in the boiling water in a 
double boiler. When it has been cooking 20 minutes, add the salt, and 
cook until the corn-meal and hominy have taken up all the water. 
Add chopped nuts and pour in a greased dish. Keep in a cold place. 
Cut in slices and fry. Serve with or without syrup. 

NUT AND CELERY SALAD. Mix equal parts of nut meats cut 
in pieces and celery cut in small pieces. Mix with French dressing. 
Serve with lettuce. 

31 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

v NUT MUFFINS (Without Eggs). 

2 cups flour 1 cup milk (scant) 

y^ cup sugar J/ cup nut meat 

4 teaspoons baking-powder J^ teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter or butter substitute 
Mix and sift dry ingredients; work in butter or butter substitute 

with tips of fingers ; add milk and nuts. Bake in muffin-pans for twenty 

to twenty-five minutes. 

BANANAS 

MOULDED CEREAL WITH BANANA. Turn any left-over 
breakfast cereal, while still hot, into cups rinsed in cold water, half 
filling the cups. When cold, scoop out the centers, and fill the open 
spaces with sliced bananas ; turn from the cups on to a buttered agate 
pan, fruit downward, and set into a hot oven to become very hot. 
Remove with a broad bladed knife to cereal dishes. Serve at once with 
sugar and milk. 

BAKED BANANAS. Arrange bananas in a shallow pan, cover, 
and bake until skins become very dark in color. Remove from skins, 
and serve hot sprinkled with sugar. 

BANANA FRITTERS. Remove skins from four bananas. Cut 
each one in four equal parts. Sprinkle with four tablespoons sugar, four 
tablespoons lemon juice, and let stand one hour. Dip in batter; fry in 
deep fat; drain on brown paper. Serve. 

BANANA FRIED IN CRUMBS. Remove skin from six bana- 
nas, cut in halves lengthwise and crosswise. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper and lemon juice, dip in flour, egg and crumbs, and fry in deep 
fat. Drain on brown paper. Serve with or without lemon sauce. 

BANANA SANDWICH. Slice the bananas and lay between slices 
of buttered bread. Salt lightly. 

BANANA AND NUT SALAD. Cut bananas in half lengthwise ; 
sprinkle with finely chopped nuts and serve on lettuce with mayonnaise 
dressing. 

POTATOES 

POTATOES AU GRATIN. 

6 cold boiled potatoes 3 tablespoons of flour 

2 cups of milk 4 heaping tablespoons grated 

2 tablespoons of butter or butter cheese 

substitute Salt and pepper to taste 

Put the butter or butter substitute in a frying-pan to melt; when 
melted, add the flour, mix until smooth; then add the milk, and stir 
continually until it boils. Take from the fire, add the cheese, salt, and 
pepper. Put a layer of this sauce in the bottom of a baking-dish, then 
a layer of the cold potatoes, sliced, and so on, having the last layer 
sauce ; sprinkle brc ,; crumbs over the top, and put it in a quick oven 
ten minutes, to brown. Serve in the dish in which it was baked. 

32 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

POTATO CROQUETTES. To two cups of well-seasoned 
mashed potatoes add the beaten yolks of two eggs, a tablespoon of 
chopped parsley, one and a half tablespoons of butter or butter substi- 
tute (if none has been used in seasoning), a dash of cayenne and nut- 
meg; stir over the fire until the potato leaves the sides of the pan. When 
cold, form it into small croquettes, roll them in egg and bread crumbs 
and fry them in hot deep fat to an amber color. 

GERMAN POTATO SALAD (Six Persons). 

10 medium potatoes 4 tablespoons good olive oil 

1 onion 5 tablespoons of vinegar 

1 teaspoon of salt Chopped parsley 

y 2 teaspoon of pepper 1 yolk of egg 

Boil and peel the potatoes and slice them while still hot. Spread 
over the potatoes the onion, sliced fine, and then sprinkle on the salt and 
pepper. In a bowl mix the yolk of egg, the oil and vinegar, and then 
pour it over the potatoes. 

Now pour over all three-quarters of a teacup of boiling water. 
This is the great point in order not to have the salad have the common 
fault of being too dry. After thoroughly mixing, cover the salad, and 
let it stand for a few hours. Garnish with parsley. 

POTATO AND NUT SALAD. Mix two cups cold boiled sliced 
potatoes and one cup nut meats broken in pieces. Mix with French 
dressing, and arrange on a bed of watercress or lettuce. 

POTATO AND EGG SALAD. Hard boil three eggs thirty min- 
utes, shell and cut fine with a silver knife. Boil three or four potatoes. 
Dice while hot, mix with cut eggs and add French dressing. Let stand 
till cold. Serve on bed of watercress or lettuce with more French dress- 
ing or boiled dressing thinned with vinegar. 

CABBAGE 

CABBAGE WITH CHEESE (Very Good). Boil the cabbage as 
directed on page 51. Press out all the water and chop it. Make a white 
sauce of one tablespoon each of butter and flour, one cup of milk, 
one-half teaspoon of salt and a dash of cayenne. Spread a layer of 
cabbage on the bottom of a pudding-dish ; cover it with white sauce ; 
then add a layer of grated cheese. Make a second layer of cabbage, 
sauce and cheese ; cover the top with a layer of crumbs, and place it in 
the oven. When the sauce bubbles through the crumbs it is done. Serve 
in same dish. 

STUFFED CABBAGE. For this select a nice head of Savoy 
cabbage. Pour over it boiling water, let stand fifteen minutes, drain, 
scald again and let stand thirty minutes. Drain and shake until dry. 
Make the stuffing as follows : Wash two heaping tablespoons of rice 
in cold water, then mix it with a half-pound of sausage meat, add a 
tablespoon of onion and a tablespoon of chopped parsley ; mix all 
well together. Open the cabbage carefully to the very center; put in 
a half-teaspoon of the mixture, fold over two or three of the little 
leaves; now cover these with a layer of the mixture, fold over this the 

33 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

ne*xt layer of leaves, and so on until each layer is stuffed. Press all 
firmly together, tie in a piece of cheese-cloth, put it into a kettle of 
salted boiling water, and boil two hours. When done, carefully remove 
the cloth, stand the cabbage in a deep round dish, pour over it cream 
sauce, and serve very hot. 

CABBAGE ROLLS. 

One head cabbage 
Stuffing made from : 

1 cup boiled rice 1 small onion grated 

l /2 pound chopped raw meat Enough milk to moisten 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Separate the leaves of the cabbage. Wash them and boil them in 
water for about ten minutes. Then drain off the water. 

Mix the stuffing in the order given. Take one tablespoon of the 
stuffing and roll it in each cabbage leaf and tie securely, forming rolls. 
Brown the cabbage rolls in hot drippings in a pot and then add a little 
water and cook slowly for about an hour ; then take out the cabbage 
rolls. To the drippings in the pan add two level tablespoons flour and 
stir until it browns. Then add about one cup of boiling water and 
one-half teaspoon kitchen bouquet, and pour this sauce over the cab- 
bage rolls. 

TOMATOES 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

1 cup cooked cereal 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

]/2 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons melted butter or 

A little pepper . drippings 

1 teaspoon onion juice 

Remove the inside of the tomato ; fill with the dressing, and brown 
in the oven. 

CURRIED TOMATOES. 

1 qt. stewed tomatoes or 1 cup boiled rice 

1 qt.-can of tomatoes or canned 1 teaspoon curry-powder 
tomato pulp Salt to taste 

Wash the rice through several cold waters. Add the curry-powder 
and salt to the tomatoes; mix well. Put a layer of the tomatoes in the 
bottom of a baking-dish, then a layer of the rice, then a layer of toma- 
toes, and so on until all is used, having the last layer tomatoes; sprinkle 
the top over with bread crumbs, place a few bits of butter here and 
there over the crumbs, and bake in a moderate oven for a half-hour. 
Serve in the dish in which it was baked. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. See Scalloped Tomatoes, page 65. 

CORN 

CORN PUDDING 

4 cups corn 3 eggs 

2 cups }/2 cup butter or butter substi- 
Salt tute 

Pepper 

34 



SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT RECIPES 

Beat yolks ; add corn, milk, butter or butter substitute, salt and 
pepper. Pour into a greased baking-dish ; add beaten whites and bake 
in moderate oven one hour. 

CORN, TOMATO AND CHEESE. 

6 tablespoons of drippings 1 clove garlic 

3/4 cup canned or fresh grated 2 cups grated cheese 
corn 1 teaspoon salt 

^2 cup tomato puree or canned ^> teaspoon paprika 
tomato pulp 4 slices bread 

Melt drippings ; add cheese, and stir until it melts. Add corn ; stir 
for a moment, then add tomato, salt and paprika. Toast bread on one 
side, rub lightly on the other with garlic cut in half. Pour mixture 
over untoasted side and serve at once. A poached egg is sometimes 
placed on top of each portion, making a very nutritious combination. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

1 cup canned or fresh grated T / 2 cup of milk 

corn ^2 cup of flour 

1 egg YI teaspoon of salt 

1 teaspoon baking-powder 2 dashes of black pepper 

To the corn add the milk, the yolk of the egg, salt, pepper and 
flour; beat well. Beat the white of the egg to a stiff froth, and stir it 
and the baking-powder carefully into the mixture. Put lard or drip- 
pings into a saucepan ; when hot, drop the mixture by spoonfuls into 
the deep fat. When brown on one side, turn and brown the other. 
Take out with a skimmer (do not pierce them with a fork, as it makes 
them heavy), drain on brown paper, and serve very hot. 

PEPPERS ' 

STUFFED PEPPERS. Use green sweet peppers of uniform size. 
Cut a piece off the stem end, or cut them in two lengthwise, and remove 
the seeds and partitions. Put them in boiling water for five minutes 
to parboil. Fill each one with a stuffing made of equal parts of softened 
bread crumbs and minced meat (any left-over meat) well seasoned with 
salt, butter, or drippings, and a few drops of onion juice. Place them in 
a baking-dish with water or stock half an inch deep, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven for half an hour. Serve them in the same dish or remove 
them carefully to another dish. Any left-over vegetable can be used in 
place of meat. 

VEGETABLE HASH. See Vegetable Hash, page 66. 

FISH 

FISH IS A MOST EXCELLENT AND APPETIZING SUB- 
STITUTE FOR MEAT. FOR RECIPES, ETC., SEE PAGES 36 
TO 48 OF THIS BOOK. 

35 



FISH 

People have got more or less into the habit of eating fish on Fridays 
only. Fish are just as appetizing and nourishing on Tuesdays and 
Thursdays as on Fridays, and if you and your neighbors will buy fish 
any day in the week you will get cheaper fish and better fish. Hundreds 
of car-loads of fish are sent from New York to other cities because the 
people living here do not appreciate the value of fish as a food and do 
not buy it as often as they should. 

Every day is fish day. 

Vary your diet as much as you can. You will be more healthy if 
you do. 

Don't use meat so much. Use fish more. 

Fish is just as nourishing as lean meat, and if eaten with bread, 
potatoes, etc., will supply all the needs of the body. 

When you buy fish, see that you get the trimmings. You are just 
as much entitled to them as you are to the trimmings of your meat. 

. The meat part of almost any fish may be cooked separately. If you 
ask your fish dealer to remove the meat part of the fish for you, the 
trimmings will consist of the head, the skeleton and the fins, and these 
can be used for fish stock, out of which can be made excellent fish soups 
and fish sauces. 

Halibut costs from 25 cents to 30 cents a pound. Market cod, Tile 
fish, Hake and Pollock cost about 15 cents less a pound and can be 
cooked in the same way as Halibut. They can be cut up into steaks; 
they can be boiled ; the tail can be split and broiled in the same way that 
you would broil Mackerel or Bluefish, and they cost about 15 cents less 
a pound than either Mackerel or Bluefish. 

Scrod can be obtained the year around at about 10 cents a pound. 
(Scrod is a young cod split down the back and the backbone removed, 
except a small portion near the tail.) 

Haddock costs about 10 cents less a pound than Halibut and can be 
cooked in the same way. Cod, Tile fish and Haddock are in season all 
the year and, if properly cooked, are extremely appetizing. 

When you buy Bluefish, get a large-size fish. If you buy a large 
one you will have enough left over for another meal. Any fish left over 
can be used to make fish cakes, or it can be creamed and put in a dish 
and baked. 

Many people go to a fish store and buy the filets of a fish instead of 
buying the whole fish. A filet of fish is nothing more or less than the 
meat of the fish stripped from the skeleton. Some fish dealers have 
these filets all ready on a platter for sale, but if you buy them that way 
you will pay about 15 cents more a pound for them than if you bought 
the entire fish and asked your fish dealer to strip the fish off for you and 
give you the trimmings. 

You will find on the next page a list of the fish that can be bought in 
New York at different seasons of the year ; also directions as to how to 
cook them, how to make various fish stews, fish chowders, fish pud- 
dings, etc 

IT WILT. PAY YOU TO TRY THESE RECIPES 

AND BUY FISH OFTEN 

36 



FISH RECIPES 

HOW TO TELL WHEN FISH IS FRESH. In fresh fish the eyes 
are bright, the gills red, and the flesh firm and odorless. 

Put fish in water, and if it sinks you will know it is fresh. If it 
floats, it is a sign that it is not fresh, and it should not be used. Serious 
illness is apt to follow the eating of fish that is not fresh. 

CLEANING FISH. Be sure that the fish is thoroughly cleaned 
before cooking it. It should be cleaned as soon as it is bought. 

FISH IN SEASON. When buying fish, buy the variety that is 
most plentiful at the time. Do not try to buy a variety that is scarce or 
out of season. 

Cod, Scrod, Haddock, Tile fish and Halibut can be obtained prac- 
tically all the year. (Scrod is a young cod split down the back and the 
backbone removed, except a small portion near the tail.) From about 
the middle of April to the 1st of November the fish in season are Weak 
fish. Butter fish, Porgies, Sea Bass, Fluke, Flounder, Whiting, Mackerel, 
Shad, Salmon and Bluefish. Nearly all of these are very abundant in 
the spring of the year. Bluefish have been very scarce of late and are 
practically out of the market. 

During the winter the fish in season are Spanish Mackerel, Red 
Snapper, Sea Trout, small Bluefish and Smelts. 

FROZEN FISH. At stated periods during the year, when certain 
fish are very plentiful, they are caught in such large numbers that it is 
impossible to dispose of all of them immediately because of the com- 
paratively small demand for fish on the part of our housewives. This 
surplus fish is sent to cold storage in order that it may be preserved and 
eaten when the same variety of fish cannot be freshly caught. In this 
way you usually can get, at any time of the year, any kind of fish you 
particularly like. 

Fish that has been properly frozen and kept in cold storage is just 
as good as fresh fish; it is just as palatable, just as nutritious. Many 
housewives do not know this, and as a result they always insist upon 
buying fresh fish.. Unscrupulous dealers frequently take advantage of 
the housewives' demand for fresh fish and thaw out frozen fish and sell 
it as fresh fish. As frozen fish costs about one-third less than fresh 
fish, the housewife pays just that much more than she should for the 
fish that is sold her in this way. 

Ask your dealer if he keeps frozen fish (cold-storage fish). Tell 
him you want to make a practice of buying frozen fish in place of fresh 
fish. See that he sells it to you for one-third less than the price of 
fresh fish. 

Frozen fish spoils quickly if it is kept for hours after being thawed 
out. This is why you should not buy fish that has been thawed out by 
your dealer. You should buy it while it is still in its frozen state, and 
take it home and thaw it out yourself. It is a very simple matter to 
thaw it out : just lay the fish in cold water and the ice will gradually melt. 

37 



FISH RECIPES 

The fish should be cooked as soon as it is thawed out. Frozen fish is 
cooked in exactly the same way as fresh fish, and not only tastes just 
as good but is just as nourishing. 

IN THESE DAYS EVERY PENNY COUNTS. 
Here is one way in which you can save one-third of the money you 
usually spend for fish. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR COOKING FISH 

BOILED FISH. Small fish, such as small Cod and Haddock, 
should be cooked whole in enough boiling water to cover, to which is 
added salt, lemon juice or vinegar. Sew the fish in a piece of muslin to 
keep it from breaking to pieces. Large fish should be cut in thick pieces. 

BROILED FISH. Small Cod, Haddock and Mackerel should be 
split down the back and broiled whole. Salmon and Halibut should 
be cut in slices for broiling. Smelts and other small fish should be 
broiled whole without splitting. ' 

BAKED FISH. Bake on a greased fish sheet, or if you have not a 
fish sheet, two strips of muslin placed under the fish will answer the 
purpose. This will enable you to lift the fish from the pan when baked 
without breaking it. 

FRIED FISH. Wipe the fish dry, sprinkle with salt, then dip in 
flour or crumbs, then dip in egg, and again in flour or crumbs, and fry 
in deep fat. 

PANNED FISH. This method of cooking is suitable for any small 
fish or such as can be cut in slices. Have the fish well cleaned, seasoned 
with pepper and salt and dried with a little flour, or, better still, very 
fine bread crumbs. Have a large frying-pan smoking hot with as little 
grease in it as will keep the fish from sticking. Drippings from good, 
sweet salt pork is the best, but any sweet dripping will do. When the 
fat begins to smoke blue lay in the fish and brown quickly on both sides, 
then cover closely and set back to cook more slowly, from ten to twenty 
minutes, according to the size of the fish. Bass in all its varieties is 
suitable to cook in this way; so are Butterfish, Cisco (Lake Herring), 
Herring, Perch, Porgies, Trout, Weakfish, etc. 

SAUTE FISH. Prepare your fish as for frying and cook in frying- 
pan with small amount of fat. Cod steaks and Smelts should be cooked 
in this way. 

SALT FISH. Very salt fish should be soaked several hours in 
three or four changes of warm water. Place the skin side up, so that 
salt crystals may fall away from the under or meat side. Wipe care- 
fully and clean, then soak for an hour in very cold \vater. 

BAKED FISH 

STUFFING VOR BAKED FISH. Put a large tablespoon of 
butter or drippings into a saucepan. When melted stir into it 1 cup 
of cracker or dry bread crumbs, 1 teaspoon of chopped onion, 1 tea- 

38 




FISH RECIPES 

;poon chopped capers, % teaspoon salt, T /4 teaspoon pepper, 1 teaspoon 
chopped parsley. If a moist stuffing is preferred, add one-quarter cup 
of milk, stock or water. 

BREAD STUFFING (for baked fish). Fry a tablespoon 01 
chopped onion in a tablespoon of butter or drippings. Add a cup 
or more of stale bread, which has been soaked in hot water, then pressed 
dry ; then add a tablespoon each of chopped parsley, suet and celery, 
one-quarter teaspoon each of salt and pepper, and a dash of powdered 
thyme (if liked). 

BAKED BASS. Wash and clean a fresh Bass for baking, leaving 
on the head. Stuff the fish with the following mixture : two and one- 
half cups of fine bread crumbs moistened well with any left-over drip- 
pings, the rind of a quarter of a lemon chopped very fine, and two or 
three sprigs of parsley chopped fine. Season to taste with salt and white 
pepper. When the fish is well stuffed, sew up the opening. Score it on 
each side and in the spaces place very thin slices of salt pork. Place the 
fish in a pan with a little stock, and bake in a moderate oven. When 
thoroughly cooked, carefully place it on a hot dish. 

To the gravy which is left in the pan, add a little tomato sauce. Stir 
on the top of the range until it comes to a boil. Strain and serve in a 
separate dish. 

BAKED BLUEFISH. Select a nice large Bluefish, clean, and 
prepare it for baking. Wash it in salted water, and after drying it thor- 
oughly, fill with stuffing. Sew up the opening and rub the fish all over 
with salt. Then having put small pieces of butter over it, place it in a 
large pan with enough water to cover the bottom, and bake in a hot 
oven for forty-five or fifty minutes. After it begins to bake, sprinkle 
it with a little salt and pepper. Baste it often with the liquid in the 
pan. When it is cooked and a nice color, remove carefully to a hot 
plate. Do not break it. Serve with a brown sauce. 

BAKED COD. Select a fresh Cod, cut off the head and fins, draw, 
wash, and split it down the belly. Remove the bone from the thick 
part only, and make small lengthwise incisions in the skin in order to 
prevent the fish from curling while it is cooking. Put it to soak for 
three hours in a dressing made as follows: Salt, white pepper, a little 
Worcestershire sauce, and some sweet oil. Drain and place in a pan. 
Baste it with the dressing and sprinkle with fine bread crumbs. Bake 
in a slow oven. Add some lemon juice and finely chopped parsley. 

BAKED EELS. Prepare as for frying; then put into a baking- 
pan with a little water, flour, pepper, and salt. Bake twenty minutes. 
Make a gravy of the liquor in which they were baked, adding a little 
butter or drippings. 

BAKED FLUKE (large Flounders). Prepare and cook the same 
as baked Bluefish. 

FISH 'LOAF. Three pounds Haddock. Have head, tail, skin and 
backbone removed, so you have two slices of solid fish. You can use 
Cod, but Haddock is better. On the bottom of your baking-pan put three 
slices fat pork. On this place one layer of the fish, sprinkle with salt 

39 



FISH RECIPES 

and pepper. Mix one cup soft bread crumbs, little salt, pepper and one- 
quarter cup of drippings, melted, and spread over the fish slice. Cover 
with the other slice of fish, sprinkle with salt and pepper and place 
three or four slices of fat pork on top. Bake about thirty minutes. 
Just before it is done remove pork, scatter one-half cup cracker crumbs 
over fish, replace pork and brown in oven. Serve with a white sauce. 

BAKED HADDOCK. Clean a four-pound Haddock. Sprinkle 
with salt inside and stuff and sew. Cut gashes on each side of backbone 
and insert narrow strips of salt pork. Place on a greased fish sheet or 
something to raise it from the bottom. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
dredge with flour, and place around fish small pieces of salt pork. Bake 
one hour in a hot oven, basting often. Serve with egg sauce. 

BAKED HALIBUT. Arrange six thin slices of fat salt pork 
(about two and one-half inches square) in a baking-pan. Wipe a two- 
pound (or as much as you happen to have) piece of Halibut with a damp 
cloth and place it in the pan. Cover the fish with three tablespoons 
of melted drippings mixed with three tablespoons of flour ; then cover the 
top with three-quarters of a cup of cracker crumbs and arrange five 
thin strips of fat salt pork over the crumbs. Cover with greased paper 
and bake fifty minutes in a moderate oven, removing the paper during 
the last fifteen minutes to brown the crumbs and pork. Sprinkle with 
finely chopped parsley. Serve with egg sauce. 

BAKED TILE FISH. Follow directions given for Baked Cod or 
Halibut. 

BAKED MACKEREL. Stuff with dressing, dredge with salt and 
flour. Bake thirty minutes, basting often with water, butter or drip- 
pings and flour. Make a gravy with the water in the pan in which 
the fish is baked. Always make the gravy quite salt. The best way to 
cook Mackerel is to broil it. 

BAKED SALMON. Clean the fish, rinse it, wipe it dry; rub it 
well outside and in with a mixture of pepper and salt, and fill it with 
stuffing ; tie a thread around the fish, so as to keep the stuffing in (take 
off the thread before serving) ; lay bits of butter or butter substitutes 
over the fish, dredge flour over it, and put in a dripping-pan ; put a pint 
of hot water in the pan to baste with; bake one hour, if a large fish, 
in a quick oven ; baste frequently. 

BAKED SHAD. Stuff it with bread crumbs, salt, pepper, and 
parsley moistened well with any left-over drippings ; sew it up or fasten 
a string around it. Pour over it a little water and some fat, and bake 
as you would a fowl. A shad will require from an hour to an hour and 
a quarter to bake. 

BAKED WEAKFISH. Prepare and cook the same as Baked Cod. 

COURT BOUILLON 

Fresh-water fish or others which are without much flavor can be 
boiled in court bouillon to give them flavor. Court bouillon is made as 
follows : 

40 



FISH RECIPES 

Fry in one tablespoon of fat, one chopped carrot, one chopped 
onion, one stalk of celery. Then add two quarts of hot water, one cup 
of vinegar, three peppercorns, three cloves, one bay-leaf, one teaspoon 
of salt. 

BOILED FISH 

BOILED COD. Take the head and shoulders of a good-sized 
Cod. Scrape and wash clean ; rub a handful of salt into it ; flour a cloth 
and pin the fish in it. Put into boiling water, and boil half an hour. 
Take the fish carefully from the cloth, and serve with egg sauce. 

BOILED HALIBUT. Take a small Halibut, or what you require 
from a large fish. Put it into the fish kettle, with the back of the fish 
undermost; cover it with cold water, in which a handful of salt has 
been dissolved. When it begins to boil skim it carefully, and then let 
it just simmer till it is done. Four pounds of fish will require nearly 
half an hour to boil it. Drain it, garnish with parsley. Egg sauce, or 
plain melted butter or butter substitute are served with it. 

BOILED TILE FISH. Follow recipe for Boiled Halibut. 

BOILED FRESH MACKEREL. If not cleaned, open them at 
the gills, take out the insides, wash clean, and pin in a fish-cloth. (Do 
not use the cloth that you use to boil Mackerel for any other fish.) 
Drop into boiling water, and boil fifteen minutes. Serve with drawn 
butter or drawn butter made with butter substitute. 

SALMON, BOILED PLAIN. Rub the fish with salt. Have 
ready a fish kettle with enough boiling water to cover the fish ; let it 
come rather slowly to the boil. Simmer very gently till done, allowing 
about fifteen minutes to each pound. Throw in one tablespoon salt 
just before it is done. Serve with plain drawn butter sauce, which may 
be made with butter substitute. 

BROILED FISH 

BROILED COD. Split, wash, and wipe dry a small Cod. Rub 
the gridiron with a piece of fat, and lay the fish upon it, being careful 
to have the inside downward. If the fish is very thick cook thirty min- 
utes ; but for an ordinary one, twenty minutes will be sufficient. Have 
the dish in which you intend serving it warm; place it upon the fish 
and turn the dish and gridiron over together. If the fish sticks to the 
gridiron loosen it gently with a knife. Have some butter or butter sub- 
stitute warm, but not melted, with which to season it. Shake on a little 
pepper and salt and send to the table. 

BROILED HALIBUT. Season the slices with salt and pepper. 
Rub with fat on both sides. Roll in flour and broil for ten minutes over 
a clear fire. Serve on a hot dish, garnishing- with parsley. The slices of 
Halibut should be about an inch thick. 

BROILED TILE FISH. Follow directions given for Broiled 
Halibut. 

BROILED MACKEREL. Split down the back and clean. Be 
careful to scrape all the thin black skin from the inside. Wipe dry and 

41 



FISH RECIPES 

lay on the gridiron ; broil on one side a nice brown, then turn and brown 
the other side; it will not take so long to brown the side on which the 
skin is. (All fish should have the side on w r hich the skin is turned to the 
fire last, as the skin burns easily and coals are not so hot after you have 
used them ten minutes.) Season with butter or butter substitute, pep- 
per and salt. 

BROILED SCROD. Scrod is young cod, and one may weigh 
from two and a half to five pounds; the best weigh four or five pounds. 
When thoroughly broiled it should be rich, flaky, and delicious. Rub 
the gridiron with fat and broil the inside of the fish first. Twenty 
minutes is usually sufficient to broil a fish of ordinary size. Season with 
warmed butter or butter substitute, pepper and salt. 

BROILED SALMON. The steaks from the center of the fish are 
best. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, spread on a little butter or butter 
substitute, and broil over a clear but slow fire. 

BROILED SHAD. Scrape, split, wash, and dry the Shad on a 
cloth ; season with pepper and salt ; grease the gridiron well ; as soon 
as it is hot lay the shad on to broil with the inside downward. One side 
being well browned, turn it. It should broil a quarter of an hour or 
more, according .to the thickness. Butter well and send to table hot. 

BROILED SMELTS. Split the Smelts down the back and remove 
the bone. Lay them on a hot broiler, which has been rubbed with fat, 
to prevent sticking. Broil over hot coals for two minutes on each side. 
Put into a dish some Bechamel sauce, and lay the broiled fish on the 
sauce, or they may be spread with maitre d'hotel sauce. Serve at once 
while very hot. 

FRIED FISH 

FRIED COD. Remove the skin (ask the fish dealer to remove it 
for you) ; cut in square pieces and remove the backbone. Scrape all the 
fish from the bones, and press it with a knife into the larger pieces. 
Season with salt and pepper and roll in fine white corn-meal. Lay the 
fish in hot fat and cook brown on each side. Drain on soft paper and 
serve hot. Garnish with slices of lemon. 

Any fish having firm white flesh can be prepared in this manner 
and it is a vast improvement on the old method of sending all the bones 
to the table. 

FRIED EELS. After skinning, cleaning, and washing them, cut 
them into short pieces, and dry them well with a soft cloth. Season 
them with salt and pepper, flour them thickly, and fry them in boiling 
fat; when nicely browned, drain and dry them, and send to the table 
w r ith plain melted butter or butter substitute and a lemon, or with fish 
sauce. Eels are sometimes dipped into batter and then fried, or into 
egg and dried bread crumbs. 

FRIED HADDOCK. Follow same directions as for fried Cod. 

FRIED HA.LIBUT. Let the slices lie in cold salted water, to which 
has been added one cup of vinegar, for ten or fifteen minutes. Dry them 

42 



FISH RECIPES 

afterwards thoroughly by wiping with a towel, and dusting cracker meal 
on both sides. Lay them in smoking hot fat, and they will be well 
cooked and of a pale brown in three or five minutes, according to thick- 
ness of the slices. 

FRIED TILE FISH. Follow directions given for Fried Halibut. 

FRIED MACKEREL. Prepare the Mackerel as for broiling. 
Sprinkle a little salt over the mackerel, then fry a nice brown in hot fat. 

FRIED PERCH. Scale and clean them perfectly; dry them well, 
flour and fry them in .hot fat. Serve with parsley. 

FRIED SHAD ROE. Wash and wipe ; fry twenty minutes in hot 
fat in a frying-pan, turning at the end of fifteen minutes. Season, dish 
on a hot platter. 

FRIED SMELTS. The best way to cook Smelts is to fry them, 
although they are sometimes baked. Open them at the gills. Draw 
each Smelt separately between your finger and thumb, beginning at the 
tail ; this will press the insides out. (Some persons never take out the 
insides, but it should be done as much as in any other fish.) Wash them 
clean, and let them drain in a colander; then salt and roll in a mixture 
half flour and half corn-meal. Have about two inches deep of hot 
fat in the frying-pan (drippings if you have them) ; into this drop the 
Smelts, and fry brown. Do not put so many in that they will be 
crowded ; if you do, they will not be crisp and brown. 

FILLET OF SOLE OR FLOUNDERS. Take two Soles or 
Flounders ; divide them from the backbone, remove the heads, fins, and 
tails. Sprinkle the inside with pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon. 
Roll in the shape of a corkscrew, then roll them in egg, then bread 
crumbs, then in egg, and bread crumbs again. Fry in hot fat and serve 
with Tartare or any other sauce. 

SALT FISH 

BLOATERS. Take off head and split open and clean. Put fish 
into frying-pan, cover with cold water and bring to boiling point. Pour 
off water and fry. 

CREAMED SALT CODFISH. Pick in small pieces one cup Salt 
Codfish ; cover with lukewarm water and let stand on back of range until 
softened. Melt one tablespoon butter or butter substitute, add one 
tablespoon flour, and pour on gradually one cup hot milk. Add fish, 
and serve on a hot platter. 

SALT CODFISH BALLS. Trim and soak a piece of Salt Codfish 
in cold water for six or seven hours, and during that time change the 
water two or three times. Shred it. Should it be too salt after shred- 
ding, freshen it by frequent changes of cold water. There should be one 
quart of the shredded fish. Cover it with water and let it simmer 
gently until tender. It will not take very long. Should you boil it too 
much, you might harden it. Have ready six good-sized, fresh-boiled 
potatoes, and mash them while hot, or use two cups of boiled rice. Have 
"he fish drained, pounded, and rubbed through a sieve, and mix with the 

43 



FISH RECIPES 



potatoes or rice three well-beaten eggs. Season to taste with salt if 
necessary and white pepper, also a small lump of butter or drippings. 
Drop by the tablespoonful into a pan of boiling hot fat and fry until 
a delicate brown. Drain on brown paper and serve very hot. 

BAKED SALT CODFISH. Take one teacup of Salt Codfish picked 
up fine, two teacups of mashed potatoes or rice, one pint of milk. Mix 
them well together and then add two eggs well beaten. Stir them in 
thoroughly and then add four tablespoons of drippings, melted, and 
salt and pepper to taste. Put in a baking-dish and bake twenty or 
thirty minutes. 

FISH HASH. Follow same direction as for fish hash made with 
left-over fish (see Fish Hash, page 45), but salt fish must be soaked for 
several hours. 

BAKED FINNAN-HADDIE. Place fish in cold water, then place 
on fire and let it come to a boil ; then remove skin and place in a pan 
with two tablespoons of fat ; bake in a moderate oven tweny-five or 
thirty minutes. 

BOILED FINNAN-HADDIE. Place fish in boiling water and 
boil for twenty minutes; serve with egg sauce or drawn butter. 

BROILED FINNAN-HADDIE. First heat broiler and grease 
well to keep from sticking; then place fish on broiler, meat side to the 
fire, and cook slowly fifteen minutes, being careful not to burn. Butter 
and pepper to suit taste. Butter substitute may be used in place of 
butter. 

CREAMED FINNAN-HADDIE. Tear Haddies into small strips ; 
wash clean and place in saucepan with quart of water; let it simmer half 
an hour ; then pour off water and add one pint of fresh milk. When this 
comes to boil, thicken with one tablespoon of flour; let it boil five 
minutes and add butter or butter substitute (size of a walnut) and a 
little pepper, and serve. 

KIPPERED HERRING. Remove fish from can and arrange on a 
platter that may be put in the oven. Sprinkle with pepper, brush over 
with lemon juice and melted butter or drippings, and pour over the 
liquor left in the can. Heat thoroughly and garnish with parsley and 
slices of lemon. 

CREAMED SALT MACKEREL. Soak the Mackerel for twelve 
hours or more, with the skin side up, and change the water several times. 
Simmer it for fifteen or twenty minutes; and, if convenient, have in the 
water one teaspoon of vinegar, one bay-leaf, one slice of onion, and a 
sprig of parsley. Place carefully on a hot dish, and pour over it a cream 
sauce. 

BOILED SALT MACKEREL. Wash the Mackerel, and soak over 
night in clear cold water. Put them on to boil in cold water, and boil 
gently thirty minutes. Serve with drawn butter or sauce made with 
butter substitute. 

BROILED SALT MACKEREL. Soak the Mackerel for twelve 
hours or more, with the skin side up, and change the water several times. 
Simmer it for fifteen or twenty minutes ; if convenient, have in the water 

44 



FISH RECIPES 

one tablespoon of vinegar, one bay-leaf, one slice of onion, and a sprig 
of parsley. Then broil and spread with butter or drippings, pepper, 
lemon juice and chopped parsley. 

HOW TO USE LEFT-OVER FISH 

CREAMED FISH. Pick the fish into small pieces and heat in 
milk. Melt one tablespoon of butter or drippings, add one tablespoon 
of flour, and pour on gradually one cup hot milk. Stir until it thickens 
slightly. Add fish and cook gently for one minute. Turn on a hot 
platter and garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs. 

CURRIED COD. Two slices large Cod, or remains of any Codfish, 
two tablespoons of fat, melted, one onion sliced, a teacup of stock or 
water, thickening of drippings and flour, one tablespoon of curry powder, 
one-quarter pint of milk, salt and pepper to taste. Flake the fish, and 
fry to a nice brown with the fat and onions ; put this in a stew-pan, 
add the stock and thickening, simmer for ten minutes. Stir the curry- 
powder into the cream sauce ; put it with the seasoning into the fish 
mixture, and serve. 

FISH BALLS. Take any left-over fish, put it in your chopping 
tray, being careful that there are no bones in it; chop fine. Pare and 
boil potatoes enough to have twice the quantity of potatoes that you 
have of fish. When cooked turn them into the tray with the fish, mash 
fine, and make into balls about the size of an egg. Flour the outside 
lightly; have the fat hot, and fry a light brown. Rice may be used in 
place of potatoes. 

FISH CROQUETTES. 

2 cups cold cooked fish 1 cup croquette sauce 

Salt and pepper 'Lemon juice and onion juice 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

Mix all ingredients; add more lemon juice if needed. Shape, dip in 
crumbs, egg and crumbs, fry in smoking hot deep fat. 

One cup tomato or canned tomato pulp may be substituted for the 
one cup milk or stock in croquette sauce. 

SAUCE FOR CROQUETTE MIXTURES. 

3 tablespoons butter or drip- Salt and pepper 
pings Celery salt 

5 tablespoons flour Lemon juice 

1 cup stock or milk Few drops onion juice 

Melt butter or drippings ; add flour, seasonings and milk. Cook 
until thick. This sauce is sufficient to thicken two cups of meat, 
for all kinds of croquettes. It may be varied by adding two egg yolks 
or one egg. 

FISH' HASH. Prepare the fish as for fish balls; chop fine cold 
potatoes, and mix with the fish or use rice in place of potatoes. Turn 
the hash into the frying-pan with two tablespoons of hot fat ; add half a 
cup of boiling water; let this heat slowly, stirring often; then spread 

45 



FISH RECIPES 

smoothly, and brown, being careful not to let it burn. When brown 
fold it as you would an omelet. 

FISH WITH TOMATO SAUCE. One cup tomatoes or canned 
tomato pulp, one-half cup water, one-half of an onion sliced. Cook 
tomatoes, water and onion twenty minutes. Melt one tablespoon of drip- 
pings and add one tablespoon of flour, stir into hot mixture, add one- 
half teaspoon salt and one-eighth teaspoon pepper, cook until it thickens ; 
then strain. Put fish in a baking-dish and pour the tomato sauce around 
it. Bake from fifteen to twenty minutes in a moderate oven. 

FISH WITH GREEN PEPPER. One and three-quarters cups 
cold cooked fish, one cup white sauce, one-half small green pepper, one- 
half slice onion or flavor to taste with extract of onion, salt and pepper. 

Cut a slice from stem end of pepper, remove every seed and parboil 
pepper fifteen minutes. Make a white sauce with one cup milk, two 
tablespoons butter or drippings, two tablespoons flour, bit of bay-leaf, 
sprig of parsley, salt and pepper to taste, scalding the milk with the 
parsley and bay-leaf. Cook the onion finely chopped in the butter or 
drippings three minutes, or flavor with onion extract to taste; add the 
flour when well mingled, the milk, salt and pepper ; when thickened and 
smooth add the fish broken into flakes and the green pepper cut into 
narrow strips ; heat thoroughly, and serve. 

FISH PUDDING. 2 cups boiled Halibut, half cup of milk, one and 
one-half tablespoons of butter or drippings, half tablespoon of flour, one 
and one-half teaspoons salt, quarter teaspoon pepper, half teaspoon onion 
juice, two eggs. 

Pound the fish until it is thoroughly mashed, then rub it through a 
sieve; season the fish pulp with salt, pepper, and onion juice. Put the 
butter or drippings into a saucepan ; when melted add the flour and cook 
for a few minutes ; then add the milk slowly, stirring constantly until 
well scalded; then add the fish pulp, take from the fire, add the beaten 
eggs, and mix thoroughly. 

Grease well a mold holding a pint or a little more ; put in the mixture, 
pressing it well against the sides to remove any air bubbles. Cover the 
mold with a greased paper, and set in a pan of warm water covering 
one-half the mold. Place in moderate oven for thirty minutes, and do not 
let the water boil. 

FISH TOAST. One cup flaked cold fish, free from skin and bones. 

Heat in water sufficient to moisten ; add butter or drippings, pepper and 

salt. When hot pour on slice of buttered toast; garnish with poached 

eggs. 

SALMON LOAF. 

y 2 cup salmon, fresh or canned ^ cup milk 

Y-2. cup stale bread crumbs */2 teaspoon lemon juice 

1 beaten egg ^ teaspoon onion juice 

Salt and pepper to taste 
Mix all the < e together; put in a greased baking-dish or any 

greased tins or custard-cups and bake in moderate oven for about 

twenty minutes. 

46 






FISH RECIPES 



SALMON AND RICE. Form freshly boiled rice into flat cakes, 
brown slightly in fat on both sides and place on a warmed platter. Warm 
Salmon .that has been left over and spread over the rice. Over this pour 
a white sauce into which has been stirred the whites of two hard-boiled 
eggs cut in dice. Garnish with the yolks cut into slices. 

SCALLOPED FISH. Two cups cold fish (Cod, Haddock, Tile fish 
or Halibut), one and one-half cups milk, one slice onion, blade of mace, 
bit of bay-leaf, three teaspoons drippings, three tablespoons flour, one- 
half teaspoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon pepper, one-half cup crumbs fried 
in drippings. 

Scald the milk with onion, mace and bay-leaf. Remove seasonings. 
Melt the drippings, add flour, salt and pepper, then gradually the milk. 
Boil three minutes. Put one-half the fish in a greased baking-dish, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper and pour over one-half the sauce. Repeat, 
cover with crumbs, and bake until the crumbs are brown in a hot oven. 

FISH SOUPS 

FISH STOCK. Put all the trimmings from the fish, such as the 
skeleton, head, fins, etc., into a saucepan, and add enough water to cover. 
Let simmer for two or three hours. Then add carrot, parsley, onion, and 
simmer for one hour more. Strain through a coarse strainer. This is a 
good foundation for fish soups and fish sauce. Left-over fish and fish 
bones can also be utilized in preparing this stock. 

FISH SOUP FROM TRIMMINGS. Put into a saucepan a carrot 
and parsley and fry them until they are reddish in color. Then add 
two pints of cold water and the bones, head and fins. Simmer for an 
hour. Take out the bones and put the rest through a coarse strainer. 
Then thicken with two tablespoons of drippings and two tablespoons of 
flour rubbed together, season to taste. This fish soup can be varied by 
adding the pulp of any left-over vegetables. 

FISH STEW 

COD, HADDOCK, TILE FISH OR HALIBUT. Remove the meat 
from the bones. Cut up one-half of the fish and put it into a saucepan 
with two or three onions and fry in drippings. Add a quart of water and 
the bones pounded. Let simmer for two or three hours. Then put the 
mixture through a strainer and return it to the saucepan. Cut the other 
half of the fish into half-inch pieces. Add them to what is in the sauce- 
pan and boil gently for ten or fifteen minutes. Then thicken with two 
tablespoons of flour moistened with a little fish stock if you have it on 
hand ; if not, use cold water. Season to taste. 

FISH CHOWDERS 

FISH CHOWDER, No. 1. Take three or four pounds of fresh 
Haddock or Cod and cut in pieces of three inches square. Place in the 
bottom of your kettle five or six slices of salt pork, fry brown, then add 

47 



FISH RECIPES 

three onions sliced thin, and fry those brown. Remove the kettle from 
the fire, and place on the onions and pork a layer of fish. Sprinkle over it 
a little pepper and salt, then a layer of pared and sliced potatoes, then a 
layer of fish and potatoes, till the fish is used up. Cover with water, 
and let it boil for half an hour. Pound six biscuits or crackers fine as 
meal, and pour into the pot ; and, lastly, add a pint of milk ; let it scald 
well, and serve. 

FISH CHOWDER, No. 2. This is the every-day style of fish 
chowder among the fishermen's families : Wash and cut in chunks 
two pounds of fresh Cod or Haddock. Pare and thinly slice one quart 
of potatoes (or as many as you prefer) and place in cold water until you 
are ready for them. Add one large onion sliced, and fry slowly for a 
very few minutes in two tablespoons of drippings. Then in your kettle 
place a layer of fish and one of potatoes, salt and pepper, and continue 
that way until all is used, potatoes on top. Cover with cold water and let 
come to boil, then boil slowly or simmer, until potatoes are done. Mix 
one tablespoon flour with one of drippings, add to chowder with one 
pint milk. Allow to come to boiling point once more, add a few halved 
crackers and serve very hot. Cheap and delicious. 

FISH SALADS 

HERRING SALAD. Soak over night three Holland Herrings, cut 
in small pieces. Cook and peel eight medium potatoes and when cold 
chop with two small cooked red beets, two onions, three hard-boiled 
eggs; mix with a sauce of sweet-oil, vinegar, stock, pepper and mustard 
to taste. 

FISH SALAD. Any cold boiled or baked fish may be made into 
salad, allowing one head of lettuce and a half-pint of mayonnaise or salad 
cream to every pint of the picked fish. Any cold left-over vegetables may 
be added to the salad. 

SALAD CREAM FOR FISH SALADS. One-half tablespoon 
salt, one-half tablespoon mustard, three-quarters tablespoon sugar, one 
egg slightly beaten, two and one-half tablespoons melted butter, three- 
quarters cup milk, and one-fourth cup vinegar. Mix ingredients in 
order given, adding vinegar very slowly. Cook over boiling water, 
stirring constantly until mixture thickens, strain and cool. 



48 



VEGETABLES 

In buying vegetables buy those that are in season and not those 
that are getting scarce and therefore more expensive. 

In buying vegetables select them yourself and see that they are 
fresh. This is all-important. There are tricks in all trades, including 
the vegetable trade. 

You will find you will get more potatoes if you will buy them by 
weight and not by measure. 

Never buy sprouting potatoes. Serious illness has been known to 
follow their use. 

To test potatoes, take the two halves and put them together; if 
they are juicy enough to stick together you have a good potato. 

In buying cabbage, be sure you get a hard, heavy head, with crisp, 
white leaves and with the stalk cut close to the head. Many a large 
head of cabbage looks heavy, but on taking it in your hand you will find 
it is very light. A light-weight head of cabbage should only be bought 
at a reduced price. 

In buying beets, choose those with dirty roots and fresh, green 
leaves. This shows that they have not been soaked to freshen them. 

In buying summer squash, choose one light yellow in color. The 
shell should be tender enough to be broke with the finger nail. 

In buying winter squash, choose one that has no soft spots. Choose 
a medium size one ; the larger ones are very seedy. 

In buying cauliflower, choose a firm, white head with fresh green 
leaves. 

Li buying onions, be sure that they are firm and hard. 

In buying celery, choose a bunch with crisp white leaves. Use the 
outside pieces for soup and the inside pieces for the table. 

In buying summer carrots see that the leaves are green and fresh. 
In buying winter carrots choose the smaller ones. 

In buying string beans, break a pod ; it should be brittle ; strings 
should be delicate and bean very small. 

In buying lima beans, buy green, juicy pods ; the small-veined beans. 

In buying corn, see that the silk is brown. Tear open the husk and 
see that the ear is well filled with well developed kernels. Try a kernel 
with your nail ; sweet milky juice should flow. 

In buying peas, see that the pods are green and brittle and that the 
peas are green. Young peas are small. 

In buying spinach, choose that with leaves fresh and dirty. If clean, 
they have wilted and been soaked to revive them. 

In buying tomatoes, choose those that are firm, smooth and evenly 
red, with no decayed, bruised or green spots. 

In the chapter of this book entitled "Vegetable Recipes" you will 
find a great deal of useful information as to how to prepare and cook a 
great many different vegetables. 

49 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

All green vegetables, roots, and tubers should be crisp and firm 
when put on to cook. If for any reason a vegetable has lost its firmness 
and crispness it should be soaked in very cold water until it becomes 
plump and crisp. With new vegetables this will be only a matter of 
minutes, while old roots and tubers often require many hours. All 
vegetables should be thoroughly cleaned just before being put on to 
cook. Vegetables that form in heads, such as cabbage, cauliflower, 
and Brussels sprouts, should be soaked, heads turned down, in salted 
cold water, to which a few spoonfuls of vinegar may be added. If there 
are any worms or other forms of animal life in these vegetables, they 
will crawl out. To secure the best results all vegetables except dried 
peas, beans, etc., must be put in boiling water, and the water must be 
made to boil again as soon as possible after the vegetables have been 
added, and must be kept boiling until the cooking is finished. 

To secure the most appetizing and palatable dishes, only fresh 
tender vegetables should be cooked. If, however, green beans, peas, 
etc., have grown until a little too old, a very small amount of baking-soda 
added to the water in which they are boiled makes them more tender, 
it is commonly believed, and helps to retain the color. Too much soda 
injures the flavor, and an excess must be carefully avoided. A little 
soda may also be used to advantage if the water is quite hard. Peas 
may be boiled for fifteen or twenty minutes in the water to which the 
soda has been added, then cooked the same as peas with pork (page 56). 

During the cooking of all vegetables the cover must be drawn to 
one side of the stew-pan. All vegetables should be thoroughly cooked, 
but the cooking should stop while the vegetable is still firm. This, of 
course, does not apply to vegetables that are cooked in soups, purees 
(thick strained soups), etc. The best seasoning for most vegetables is 
salt and good butter or drippings. Vegetables that are blanched and then 
cooked with butter or drippings and other seasonings and very little 
moisture are more savory and nutritious than when all the cooking is 
done in a good deal of clear water. 

BLANCHING VEGETABLES AS A COOKING 

PROCESS 

Blanching is a cooking process often used with vegetables, since it 
removes the strong taste and improves the quality. It is also conve- 
nient, since blanching may be done at any time, and the cooking com- 
pleted in a very short time when the dish is to be served. 

Have a large stew-pan half full of rapidly boiling water. Add a 
tablespoon of salt for every two quarts of water. Have the vege- 
tables cleaned and well drained. Drop them into the boiling water, and 
bring the water back to the boiling point as quickly as possible. Boil 
rapidly, with the cover partially or wholly off tlje stew-pan, five to 

50 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

twenty minutes, depending- upon the vegetable, then drain oft the water. 
If the cooking of the vegetable is not to be finished at once, pour cold 
water over the vegetable to cool it quickly, then drain and set aside 
until needed. If the cooking is to be continued at once, it will not be 
necessary to rinse the vegetable with cold water. To complete the 
cooking the vegetable should be put in a small stew-pan with butter 
or drippings and the other seasonings and cooked gently until done. A 
few spoonfuls of liquid will be required for every quart of very juicy 
vegetables, and half a pint of liquid for drier vegetables. The stew-pan 
should be covered, only a slight opening being left for ventilation. All 
vegetables cooked in this manner should be cut rather small either before 
or after the blanching. 

WASTE IN PREPARING VEGETABLES 

In preparing vegetables for the table the careful cook will remove 
all inedible portions and will see to it that the total amount of refuse 
is as small as is consistent with good quality. Thin paring of potatoes 
and other vegetables is an economy which it is worth while to prac- 
tice, and is an easy way of decreasing useless loss. When potatoes are 
cooked in their skins there is absolutely no waste. A great deal of the 
potato is wasted in paring or scraping it ; some nourishment is also lost 
in paring or scraping. 

TO BOIL CABBAGE 

Cut a small head of cabbage into four parts, cutting down through 
the stock. Soak for half an hour in a pan of cold water to which has 
been added a tablespoon of salt; this is to draw out any insects that 
may be hidden in the leaves. Take from the water and cut into slices. 
Have a large stew-pan half full of boiling water ; put in the cabbage, 
pushing it under the water with a spoon. Add one tablespoon of salt 
and cook from twenty-five to forty-five minutes, depending upon the 
age of the cabbage. Turn into a colander and drain for about two min- 
utes. Put in a chopping-bowl and mince. Season with butter or drip- 
pings, pepper, and more salt if it requires it. Allow a tablespoon of 
butter or drippings to a generous pint of the cooked vegetable. Cabbage 
cooked in this manner will be of delicate flavor and may be generally 
eaten without distress. Have the kitchen windows open at the top while 
the cabbage is boiling, and there will be little if any odor of cabbage in 
the house. 

CABBAGE COOKED WITH PORK. For a small head of cab- 
bage use about half a pound of salt pork. Boil the pork gently for three 
or four hours. Prepare the cabbage as for plain boiled cabbage. Drain 
well and put on to boil with the pork. Boil rapidly for twenty-five to 
forty-five minutes. Serve the pork with the cabbage. The cabbage may 
require a little more salt. 

Smoked bacon or ham may be substituted for the pork. Cabbage 
may be cooked in water in which corned beef was boiled. 

51 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

CREAMED CABBAGE. 

1 pint boiled and minced cabbage 1 teaspoon flour 
l /2 pint hot milk V teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter or drippings l / 2 teaspoon pepper 
Put the cabbage, hot milk, salt, and pepper in a stew-pan and on the 
fire. Beat the butter or drippings and flour together until creamy, then 
stir into the contents of the stew-pan. Simmer ten minutes, being careful 
not to scorch the sauce ; serve very hot. 

CABBAGE WITH SAUSAGE. 

6 sausages y 2 teaspoon pepper 

1 quart minced cabbage Salt, if necessary 

Fry the sausages crisp and brown. Take from the frying-pan and 
pour off all but three tablespoons of the fat. Put the minced cabbage 
in the frying pan and cook six minutes. Arrange in a hot dish and 
garnish with the sausages. Serve mashed potatoes with this dish. 

PUREE OF CABBAGE AND POTAOES. 

1 pint boiled finely minced cab- 2 tablespoons butter or drip- 

bage pings 

6 medium-sized potatoes 2 teaspoons salt 

y 2 teaspoon pepper y 2 pint hot milk 

Peel the potaoes and put them in a stew-pan with boiling water 
enough to cover them. Cook just thirty minutes. Pour off the water 
and mash fine and light. Beat in the hot milk, seasoning, and cabbage. 
Cook about five minutes longer. 

CAULIFLOWER 

Remove all the large green leaves and the greater part of the stalk. 
Put the head down in a pan of cold water which contains to each quart 
a teaspoon of salt and a teaspoon of vinegar. Let it soak in this 
water an hour or more. This is to draw out worms, if any are 
hidden in the vegetable. When ready to cook the cauliflower put it into 
a large stew-pan, stem-end down, and cover generously with boiling 
water. Add a tablespoon of salt and cook with the cover of the sauce- 
pan partially off, boiling gently all the time. A large, compact head will 
require a full half hour, small heads from twenty to twenty-five minutes. 
If the flowers are loose the heat penetrates to all parts quickly. When 
compact a little extra time should be allowed for the cooking, but the 
time must never exceed the half-hour. The cauliflower begins to deteri- 
orate the moment it begins to be overcooked. Overcooking, which is 
very common, can be told by the strong flavor and dark color. It makes 
the vegetable not only unpleasant to the eye and palate, but indigestible 
also. If this vege^- '.!- must be kept warm for any length of time, cover 
the 'dish with a piece of cheese cloth. It is better to blanch the cauli- 
flower, chill with cold water, and then heat in salted boiling water when 
needed. 

52 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

CREAMED CAULIFLOWER. 

1 pint cooked cauliflower 1 tablespoon butter or drip- 

1 pint milk pings 

1 teaspoon salt j^ tablespoon flour 

Yz teaspoon pepper 3 slices toasted bread 

Have the cooked cauliflower broken into branches and seasoned 
with half the salt and pepper. Put the butter or drippings in a saucepan 
and on the fire. When hot add the flour and stir until smooth, then 
gradually add the milk, stirring all the time. When the sauce boils add 
the salt, pepper, and the cauliflower. Cook ten minutes and dish on the 
slices of toast. Serve very hot. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS BLANCHED. Remove the wilted or yel- 
low leaves from the little heads or "sprouts," cut the stock close to the 
head, and soak in salted cold water for an hour or more. Drain well 
and put into plenty of boiling salted water. Allow one teaspoon of 
salt to two quarts of water. Boil rapidly for fifteen or twenty minutes, 
the time depending on the size of the heads. When done turn into a 
colander and pour cold water over the heads ; or the boiling water may 
be drained from the sprouts, which can then be seasoned with butter, 
salt, and pepper. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS SAUTE. 

1 quart Brussels sprouts }/2 teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons butter or drip- % teaspoon pepper 

pings 

To saute a food is to cook it quickly in a frying-pan in a little fat. 
Blanch the sprouts and drain well. Put them into a broad-bottomed 
saucepan with the butter or drippings and other seasonings. Place over 
a hot fire and shake frequently. Cook five minutes. Serve hot. 

KALE 

There are several varieties of this vegetable. The dwarf, green- 
curled kale is the best for the table and is a fall and spring vegetable. 
The leaves are sweeter and more tender after having been touched by 
the frost. 

KALE BOILED WITH PORK. Cook the kale the same as cab- 
bage with pork. 

MINCED KALE. Remove all the old or tough leaves. Wash the 
kale thoroughly and drain, then put on to cook in a kettle of boiling 
water, to which has been added salt in the proportion of 1 tablespoon 
to 4 quarts of water. Boil rapidly, with the cover off the kettle, until the 
vegetable is tender. Pour off the water, and chop the kale rather fine ; 
then put back into the kettle and add 1 tablespoon of butter and 2 of 
meat broth or water for each pint of the minced vegetable. Add more 
salt if required. Cook for ten minutes and serve at once. The time re- 
quired for cooking kale varies from thirty to fifty minutes. If young 
and fresh from the garden it will cook in thirty minutes. 

53 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

SPINACH 

To clean the spinach cut off the roots, break the leaves apart and 
drop them into a large pan of water, rinse them well in this water and 
put them in a second pan of water. Continue washing in clean waters 
until there is not a trace of sand on the .bottom of the pan in which the 
vegetable was washed. If the spinach is at all wilted let it stand in 
cold water until it becomes fresh and crisp. Drain off the water and 
blanch. For half a peck of spinach have in a large saucepan 2 quarts of 
boiling water and 1 tablespoon of salt. Put the drained spinach in 
the boiling water and let it boil ten minutes, counting from the time it 
begins to boil. When it begins to boil draw the cover of the saucepan a 
little to one side to allow the steam to escape. At the end of ten minutes 
pour the spinach into a colander, and when the hot water has passed off 
pour cold water over it. Save the water in which the spinach was cooked 
for cream of spinach soup. Let it drain well and mince coarse or fine, 
as is suitable for the manner in which it is to be served. 

One peck of spinach will make about \ l / 2 pints when blanched and 
minced. 

SPINACH WITH CREAM. 

l /2 peck spinach 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter or drip- l / 2 teaspoon pepper 
pings ]/2 pint milk 

1 tablespoon flour 

Blanch and mince the spinach. Put the butter or drippings in a 
saucepan and on the fire. When hot add the flour and stir until smooth, 
then add the minced spinach and the salt and pepper. Cook for five 
minutes, then add the milk, hot, and cook three minutes longer. Serve. 

SPINACH WITH EGG. 

YZ. peck spinach y teaspoonful pepper 

3 tablespoons butter or drip- 2 eggs 

pings 3 teaspoons salt 

Wash and blanch the spinach, using two teaspoons of the salt in 
the water in which the vegetable is boiled. Drain the blanched spinach 
and chop rather fine, return it to the saucepan, and add the salt, pepper 
and butter or drippings. Place on the fire and cook ten minutes. Hean 
in a mound on a hot dish and garnish with the hard-boiled eggs, cut in 
slices. 

SWISS CHARDS 

This vegetable is a variety of beet in which the leaf stalk and mid- 
rib have been developed instead of the root. It is cultivated like spinach, 
and the green, tender leaves are prepared exactly like this vegetable. 
The midribs of the full-grown leaves may be cooked like celery. 

BEET GREENS 

Wash thoroughly in many waters. Put into a stew-pan and cover 
generously with boiling water. Add a teaspoon of salt for every two 

54 






VEGETABLE RECIPES 

quarts of greens. Boil rapidly until tender. This will be about thirty 
minutes. Drain off the water, chop rather coarse, season with butter 
or drippings and salt. 

The vegetable mav be boiled with pork as directed for "Cabbage 
and Pork." 

ASPARAGUS 

This delicious spring vegetable should be treated very simply, yet 
carefully. 

Cut off the woody part, scrape the lower part of the stalks. Wash 
well and tie in bunches. Put into a deep stew-pan with the cut end rest- 
ing on the bottom of the stew-pan. Pour in boiling water to come up to 
the tender heads, but not to cover them. Add a teaspoon of salt for 
each quart of water. Place where the water will boil. Cook until 
tender, having the cover partially off the stew-pan. This will be from 
fifteen to thirty minutes, depending upon the freshness and tenderness 
of the vegetable. Have some slices of well-toasted bread on a platter. 
Butter them slightly. Arrange the cooked asparagus on the toast, sea- 
son w r ith butter and a little salt and serve at once. Save the water in 
which the asparagus was boiled to use in making vegetable soup. 

Another method of cooking asparagus is to cut all the tender part 
into short pieces. Add boiling water enough to just cover the vege- 
table and place where the water will boil. Cook until tender (about 
fifteen minutes), season with salt and butter, and serve in the greater 
part of the juice. 

If preferred, a cream dressing may be served with asparagus. 

GREEN PEAS 

This vegetable should be cooked as soon as possible after gather- 
ing. Some varieties of peas lack sweetness, and in this case a little 
sugar in the water in which they are cooked improves the flavor. Over- 
cooking spoils the color and flavor of the vegetable. Peas should always 
be boiled slowly, and with the cover partially off the stew-pan. It is 
impossible to give the exact time of cooking this vegetable, since so 
much depends upon the maturity of the peas, the length of time they 
have been picked, etc. Young, tender peas will generally cook in 
twenty or thirty minutes, and the seasoning should be added while they 
are still firm and crisp. When peas are overgrown and a little hard 
they should be cooked by the rule "Peas with Pork." When this rule 
is followed a pinch of delicate, small, white onions may be added to the 
peas and other ingredients and will give a very savory dish. 

BOILED PEAS WITH BUTTER OR DRIPPINGS. Put one 

quart of shelled peas in a stew-pan and add enough boiling water to 
cover them generously. Place over a hot fire and when they begin to 
boil draw back where the water will bubble gently. Until the peas are 
done cook with the cover partially off the stewpan. When the peas 

55 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

are tender add one teaspoon of salt and three tablespoons of butter or 
drippings. Cook ten minutes longer. If the peas are not the sweet kind 
add a teaspoon of sugar with the salt and butter or drippings. 

PEAS WITH PORK. 

1 quart peas ^2 cup water 

4 ounces pork 2 small white onions 

1/8 teaspoonful pepper 

Cut pork into small bits and put into stew-pan on the fire. Cook 
gently until a light brown, then add the water, peas, onion, and pepper. 
This is a good way to cook peas when they are a little old and hard. 

PUREE OF DRIED OR SPLIT PEAS. Soak one quart of dried 
peas overnight and follow the directions for puree of dried beans, 
page 57. 

GREEN OR STRING -BEANS 

Formerly it was difficult to find the slender, stringless green beans, 
but to-day the progressive market gardeners make a point of raising 
beans of this kind. Unfortunately, not all market gardeners and farmers 
are progressive, and many still raise a coarse, fibrous bean that is a 
disappointment to the customer. In the very early stage of the pod 
almost any kind of bean will be good, if properly cooked, but all except 
the stringless kind must have their strings carefully removed. The pods 
should be gathered while small and tender. If for any reason they 
become wilted, they must be made crisp and fresh by being soaked in 
cold water. The beans that are brought from the South in cold weather 
are usually more or less wilted. They should be freed from strings, cut 
up, and soaked at least twelve hours in cold water. They will then cook 
like fresh beans. 

TO BLANCH GREEN BEANS. Green beans should always be 
blanched. To do this drain them from the cold water and put them into 
water that is boiling rapidly, allowing a teaspoon of salt to two quarts 
of water. Boil rapidly, with the cover partially off the saucepan, for 
twenty minutes. Turn into a colander and let cold water run upon 
them. They are now ready to be finished in any manner you like. The 
blanching can be done in the morning while the fire is good and the 
beans be finished for dinner at the proper time. 

GREEN BEANS, PLAIN. 

1 quart beans 1 generous tablespoon butter or 

y> pint water drippings 

1 level teaspoon salt 

String the beans if necessary and cut them into two-inch lengths. 
Blanch them as directed. Drain and put in the saucepan with the water, 
salt, and butter or drippings. Cook for ten minutes over a hot fire, turn- 
ing the contents of the saucepan from time to time. Serve very hot. If 
the beans are not. tender it may take fifteen minutes to cook them, but 
uncfer all circumstances be careful not to overcook, as this ruins the 
flavor. If overcooked, green beans become yellow or brown. 

56 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

GREEN BEANS BOILED WITH PORK. Boil about a quarter 
of a pound of pork for five hours. Have the beans free from strings and 
cut about 2 inches long. Cook them with the pork until tender (about 
half an hour). 

SHELLED KIDNEY BEANS. All the varieties of this bean, 
when gathered while the seeds are still tender, may be cooked like the 
Lima beans. They may also be boiled with pork like green beans. It 
takes from one to two hours to cook kidney beans. 

GREEN LIMA BEANS. Cover 1 quart of the shelled beans with 
boiling water. Place on the fire where they will boil up quickly, then 
draw back where they will just simmer until done. When tender pour 
off a part of the water. Season the beans with a teaspoon of salt and 
one tablespoon of drippings. 

Or drain the water from the beans. Put the drippings in a saucepan 
with 1 tablespoon of flour. Stir over the fire until smooth, then add 
the beans and stir over the fire for five minutes. Draw back and add 
half a pint of water, meat stock, or milk. Simmer ten minutes. If liked, 
a teaspoon of fine herbs may be added a few minutes before serving. 
It will take from forty-five to sixty minutes to boil the beans suffi- 
ciently. 

DRIED BEANS 

All dried beans require the same preliminary treatment, no matter 
how they are to be finally cooked and served. Look them over care- 
fully to remove all dirt and pebbles, then wash clean. Soak them over- 
night in plenty of cold water. In the morning pour off the water and 
put them in a stew-pan with cold water enough to cover them generously. 
Let them come to the boiling point in this water, then drain. If the 
beans are old and hard, for each quart put about % teaspoon of soda in 
the water in which they are soaked overnight, also in the first water 
in which they are boiled. 

The scalded and drained beans should be put back in the stew-pan 
and covered generously with boiling water. Add 1 tablespoon of 
salt for 1 quart of beans. They should now cook slowly, with the 
cover partially off the stew-pan until they have reached the required 
degree of tenderness. For stewed and baked beans the cooking must 
stop when the skins begin to crack. For beans served with a sauce they 
should cook until perfectly tender, but they must not be broken or 
mushy. For purees and soups they should be cooked until very soft. 

PUREE OF DRIED BEANS. Cook 1 quart of beans in water 
until very soft, then drain well (saving the water) and rub through a 
puree sieve. Put 1 pint of the strained beans in a stew-pan with 2 table- 
spoons of butter or drippings, 1 teaspoon of sugar, 1 teaspoon of salt, 
one-fourth of a teaspoon of pepper, and hot milk enough to make 
the puree like thick mush. About half a pint of milk will be right. 
Cook in the double boiler for one hour, stirring often and adding more 
milk if too dry. Heap the puree in the center of a hot platter. This 

57 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

tastes particularly good with fried sausages, pork chops, or any fat meat. 
The puree may be served as a vegetable, with any kind of meat. A 
soup may be made with the water in which the beans were cooked and 
the remainder of the strained beans. 

DRIED BEANS SAUTE. Cook the beans u'ntil tender, but not 
broken. Drain off the water and save it for soup. For 1 quart of beans 
put 3 tablespoons of drippings or butter in a large-bottomed stew-pan. 
When the fat is hot put in the drained beans, which have been seasoned 
with a tablespoon of salt and half a teaspoon of pepper. Cook over 
a hot fire for fifteen minutes, frequently turning the beans over with a 
fork. Cover and let them cook for half an hour where they will not 
burn. If the beans are liked moist add a cup of meat broth, milk, or 
water before putting them to cook for the last half hour. 

This dish may be made more savory by frying a tablespoon of 
onion in the butter or fat before adding the beans. A tablespoon of 
fine herbs may also be added to the beans to make them more savory. 

BAKED BEANS. See page 28. 

POTATOES 

A poisonous substance called solanin is found in or near the skin of 
potatoes which have grown exposed to the sun or a strong light. Solanin 
also develops when potatoes are allowed to sprout, and serious illness 
has been known to follow the eating of exposed and sprouted potatoes. 
Therefore potatoes should not be exposed to strong light or be allowed 
to sprout. 

Potatoes cooked in dry heat, as by baking in the oven, roasting in 
ashes, frying in deep fat, or steaming in their jackets have a more pro- 
nounced flavor and are more savory than when cooked in water. But 
potatoes so cooked must be served just as soon as they are done, or else 
they will become soggy and bad-flavored. 

Potatoes, if kept in a closely covered vessel or with the unbroken 
skins on, will become soggy and dark and have a rank flavor. If the 
skins are broken and the vessel ventilated, potatoes may be kept warm 
a long time without spoiling. 

Potatoes cooked in the skin should be free from any blemish and 
washed absolutely clean. Old potatoes, that is, potatoes that are kept 
into the spring and early summer, are better for being soaked in cold 
water and peeled before cooking 

BOILED POTATOES. The method and time given for boiling 
potatoes are the same whether the potato be peeled, partially peeled, 
or left with the skin intact. If a dozen or two ordinary-sized potatoes 
are put on the tire in a large stew-pan and are covered generously with 
boiling water and n cover is immediately put on the stew-pan, they will 
be cooked to the pr 'per point in thirty minutes from the time the cover 
was put on the stew-pan. Small potatoes will cook in two minutes less 
time, and very large potatoes will require about thirty-five minutes 

58 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

cooking. If the potatoes are to be boiled in their skins, wash them until 
clean and then with a sharp knife cut a narrow band of the skin from 
the center of the potato. Cut a little bit of the skin from each end of 
the potato. If the potatoes are to be peeled, use a very sharp knife and 
remove the thinnest possible layer. The skins may be scraped off, if 
preferred, and there are special knives for this purpose. Let the pota- 
toes boil fifteeen minutes, then add 1 tablespoon of salt for every dozen 
potatoes. When the potatoes have been cooking thirty minutes, drain 
off every drop of water and let all the steam pass off. They are now 
ready to serve, though they will not be injured but in fact will be im- 
proved by being kept hot for an hour or more, if they are well ventilated 
in such a way that they dry rather than retain their moisture. 

When boiled or steamed potatoes must be kept warm for any length 
of time, place the stew-pan on the range on a tripod or iron ring and cover 
the potatoes with one thickness of cheese cloth. This will protect them 
from the cold air and allow the moisture to pass off. 

BAKED POTATOES. Select potatoes having a smooth, un- 
marred surface. W r ash perfectly clean and let them drain. Put them in 
an old baking-pan kept for this purpose do not crowd them and put 
in a hot oven. If the oven is large and hot and the potatoes of medium 
size, forty minutes will answer for the cooking. On the other hand, if 
the oven is filled with cold potatoes the temperature of the oven will 
be reduced quickly and it will require an hour to cook the potatoes. 
Baked potatoes should be served as soon as they are done. If they 
must be kept any time after the cooking is completed, break them in 
order that the moisture may escape. Keep them in a warm oven or 
covered with cheese cloth in a stew-pan. 

REHEATING POTATOES. Cold boiled, steamed, or baked pota- 
toes may all be utilized in savory dishes. In reheating potatoes the fol- 
lowing things must be kept in mind : The potatoes must be well sea- 
soned to make them savory, they must be heated to as high a tempera- 
ture as possible without burning them, and they must be served very 
hot. The cold potatoes may be sliced or be cut into small pieces, sea- 
soned with salt and pepper and browned in a little savory drippings, 
or seasoned as before and heated in the frying-pan with butter or the 
drippings. A little minced onion or green pepper may be added. 

A tablespoon of butter and a teaspoon of flour may be stirred over 
the fire until the mixture is smooth and frothy. Add to this a pint 
of well seasoned potatoes and stir the mixture with a fork for three 
minutes, then add half a pint of milk and cook until thoroughly heated, 
being careful not to burn. A pint and a half of cold potatoes cut-in cubes 
and seasoned with salt and pepper may be heated in a pint of the white 
sauce. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. This dish may be prepared by mix- 
ing a pint' and a half of cold potatoes cut in cubes and seasoned with 
a tablespoon of salt, one-fourth of a teaspoon of pepper, and a pint 
of cream sauce. Put the mixture in a shallow baking-dish, cover with 
grated bread crumbs, and dot with butter. Bake half an hour in a mod- 
erate oven. 

59 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES. Wash the potatoes and bake the 
same as white potatoes. Small ones will bake in half an hour, while 
very large ones will require an hour or more. If the potatoes are liked 
very moist and sweet, bake from an hour to two hours, depending on size. 

BROWNED SWEET POTATOES. Boil medium-sized sweet 
potatoes forty-five minutes. Peel them and cut in halves lengthwise. 
Put them in a baking-pan and baste with drippings, and season with salt. 
Cook them in a hot oven for twenty minutes. 

FRIED SWEET POTATOES. Cut the boiled potatoes in slices 
and fry brown in drippings. Or the potatoes may be cut in four parts 
lengthwise, put in a frying-basket and be cooked for ten minutes in 
smoking hot fat. The fat must be deep enough to cover the potatoes. 

TURNIPS 

This vegetable is generally spoiled by overcooking. The flat, white 
summer turnip, when sliced, will cook in thirty minutes. If the cooking 
is prolonged beyond this time, the vegetable begins to deteriorate, grow- 
ing dark in color and strong in flavor. The winter turnips require from 
forty-five to sixty minutes. 

BOILED TURNIPS. Have the turnips peeled and sliced. Drop 
the slices into a stew-pan with boiling water enough to cover generously. 
Cook until tender, then drain well. They are now ready to mash or 
chop. If they are to be served mashed, put them back in the stew-pan ; 
mash with a wooden vegetable masher, as metal is apt to impart an 
unpleasant taste. Season with salt, butter or drippings, and a little 
pepper. Serve at once. 

HASHED TURNIPS. Chop the drained turnips into rather large 
pieces. Return to the stew-pan, and for a pint and a half of turnips add 
a teaspoon of salt, one-fourth of a teaspoon of pepper, a tablespoon 
of butter or drippings and four tablespoons of water. Cook over a 
very hot fire until the turnips have absorbed all the seasonings. Serve 
at once. Or the salt, pepper, butter or drippings, and a tablespoon of 
flour may be added to the hashed turnips; then the stew-pan may be 
placed over the hot fire and shaken frequently to toss up the turnips. 
When the turnips have been cooking five minutes in this manner add 
half a pint of meat stock or of milk and cook ten minutes, 

CARROTS 

The carrot is valuable as a vegetable and as a flavorer. When par- 
tially grown and fresh from the ground they have a delicious flavor, and 
are so tender that they may be cooked without water. As the carrot 
grows old the flavor grows stronger, and in the majority of varieties the 
heart grows hard and woody. When the carrot reaches this stage only 
the outer layers are desirable for food. > 

60 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

CARROTS WITH WHITE SAUCE. Scrape the carrots lightly; 
then cut into large dice or slices. Put into a stew-pan with salted boiling 
water, allowing a teaspoon of salt for a quart of water, and boil until 
tender. The young carrots will cook in thirty minutes and the old ones 
in forty-five. Drain, season with a little salt, put them in a vegetable 
dish, and pour the white sauce over them. Or the carrots may be cut 
into dice before cooking and boiled and drained as directed ; then put 
them back in the stew-pan, and for every pint add one tablespoon of 
butter or drippings, one teaspoon of sugar, half a teaspoon of salt, and 
one half cup of water or meat stock. Cook over a hot fire until the 
carrots have absorbed the seasonings and liquid. 

PARSNIPS 

This vegetable, because of its pronounced taste, is probably not so 
generally liked as are most of the other roots. It is at its best in the early 
spring, when it has been in the ground all winter. 

The simplest method of cooking the parsnip is to wash it clean, boil 
it, and then scrape off the skin. Now cut in slices and put in the vege- 
table dish. Season with salt and butter or drippings When the parsnips 
are tender and just out of the ground they will cook in thirty-five min- 
utes ; when old it takes from forty to fifty minutes to cook them. The 
cooked and peeled parsnips may be chopped rather coarse, seasoned with 
salt, and put into a stew-pan with hot milk enough to cover them. Place 
the stew-pan on the range where the heat is moderate. 

For a pint and a half of parsnips beat together one tablespoon of 
butter or drippings and one teaspoon of flour. Stir into the parsnips 
and milk. Simmer for ten minutes. Parsnips are often cut in slices after 
boiling and fried in butter or drippings. 

SALSIFY 

This vegetable is sometimes called oyster plant, because the flavor 
suggests that of the oyster, particularly when the boiled vegetable is 
sliced and fried in butter or drippings. Salsify is one of the roots that 
may be left in the ground over winter, thus making this vegetable avail- 
able for the late summer, 'fall and spring. 

To prevent this root from turning dark it must be dropped as soon as 
it is pared and cut into a mixture of flour and water made slightly acid 
with vinegar. For 6 good-sized roots mix together 1 tablespoon vinegar, 
2 tablespoons of flour, 1 teaspoon of salt, and 3 pints of water. Wash 
and scrape the roots, then cut into slices about 3 inches long. Drop 
into the prepared water. Place the stew-pan on the fire and cook the 
salsify thirty minutes, counting from the time it begins to boil. Drain 
and serve in a white sauce. Or mix together one tablespoon of butter 
or drippings, half a teaspoon of salt, one teaspoon of lemon juice, and 
1 teaspoon of minced parsley. Add this to the drained salsify and serve 
at once. 

61 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

BEETS 

Beets are among our most useful vegetables, since they may be had 
all through the summer and may also be stored in good condition for 
winter use. Sometimes beets are cut in small pieces, after boiling, and 
served with white sauce, but the most common as well as the most palat- 
able way of serving them is with butter. 

BEETS WITH BUTTER. Wash the beets, being careful not to 
break the skin. Put into a stew-pan and cover generously with boiling 
water and boil until tender. Young beets will cook in one hour. As the 
beets grow old the time of cooking must be increased. In winter this 
vegetable becomes so hard it may require four or more hours of steady 
boiling to soften it. It is then only suitable for pickling in vinegar after 
being thoroughly boiled. 

When the young beets are cooked, take them from the boiling water 
and drop them into cold water. Rub off the skin Cut the beets in thin 
slices and season with salt and butter. Serve at once. 

KOHLRABI, OR TURNIP CABBAGE 

This vegetable is a variety of the cabbage, but instead of the reserve 
nutritive matter of the plant being stored largely in the leaves or flowers, 
it is collected in the stem, which forms a turniplike enlargement just 
above the ground. Kohlrabi is fine flavored and delicate, if cooked 
when very young and tender. It should be used when it has a diameter 
of not more than 2 or 3 inches. As it grows large it becomes tough and 
fibrous. 

BOILED KOHLRABI. Wash and pare the vegetables, then cut 
ia thin slices. Put into slightly salted boiling water and boil, with the 
cover partially off the stew-pan, until the vegetable is tender. This will 
take from thirty to fifty minutes. Pour off the water and season with 
butter or drippings, salt, and pepper. 

Kohlrabi may be boiled with pork in the same way as cabbage. 

The cold boiled vegetable may be served as a salad. 

CELERY 

This vegetable is so generally grown that one can find it in large 
markets nearly every month of the year. Celery is at its best in the 
late fall and early winter, when the weather has been cold enough to 
crisp the blanched stalks. This plant is most useful as a salad and 
flavorer, but is perhaps most commonly eaten raw, without any dressing 
except salt, as an accompaniment of fish, meat, etc. 

Only the tender, inner stalks should be eaten raw. The hard, out- 
side stalks make a delicious and wholesome dish when properly cooked. 
When thus used, celery should be blanched and served with a sauce. 

STEWED CELERY. To blanch celery in cooking, remove all the 
leaves from the stalks. Scrape off all rusted or dark spots, cut into pieces 

62 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

about 3 inches long, and put in cold water. Have a stew-pan of boiling 
water on the fire, wa\sh and drain the celery and put in the boiling water. 
Add one teaspoon of salt for every 2 quarts of water. Boil rapidly 
for fifteen minutes, having the cover partially off the stew-pan. Pour off 
the water and rinse with cold water, then drain. The celery is now ready 
to finish in the following manner: Put the celery in the stew-pan with 
one tablespoon of butter or drippings, and one teaspoon of salt for each 
quart of celery. Cover and cook slowly for fifteen minutes. Shake the 
pan frequently while the celery is cooking. Serve hot. 

ONION 

This vegetable is the most useful of all our flavorers, and there is 
hardly a soup", stew, sauce, etc., that is not improved by the addition 
of the onion flavor. As a vegetable the onion may be prepared in a 
variety of ways. The white onions are the most delicate and are there- 
fore more suitable as a vegetable than the yellow or red variety. The 
large Spanish onions and the Bermuda onion are also delicate and suit- 
able for a table vegetable. If the stronger onions are used for this pur- 
pose they must be thoroughly blanched. 

BOILED ONIONS IN WHITE SAUCE. Peel the onions and cut 
off the roots, dropping into cold water as fast as they are peeled. Drain 
from the cold water and put in a stew-pan with boiling water to cover 
generously. Add a teaspoon of salt for each quart of water. Boil 
rapidly for ten minutes, with the cover partially off the saucepan. Drain 
off the water and cover the onion with hot sweet milk (a quart of onions 
will require a pint of milk). Simmer for half an hour. Beat together 
one tablespoon of butter or drippings and one level tablespoon of flour. 
Add one teaspoon of salt and one-fourth of a teaspoon of white pepper. 
Gradually beat in about half a cup of the milk in which the onions 
are cooking. When smooth, stir the mixture into the onions and milk. 
Let the dish cook ten minutes longer and serve. 

STEWED ONIONS. Cut the onions in slices and boil in salted 
water for ten minutes. Drain well and return to the stew-pan. 

For a quart and a half of onion, measured before it was boiled, add 
two tablespoons of butter, one teaspoon of salt, and one-fourth of a 
teaspoon of pepper. Cover the stew-pan and cook over a hot fire for 
five minutes, shaking the pan to prevent the onion from browning. 
Set the stew-pan back where the contents will cook slowly for forty 
minutes. Drippings may be substituted for the butter, but, of course, the 
dish will not be so delicate in flavor. 

CUCUMBERS 

The cucumber is much oftener eaten in the United States as a salad 
than cooked, yet it is a very palatable vegetable when stewed and served 
with a white sauce, or seasoned with butter, salt, and pepper, and served 

63 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

> 

on toast. The pared and quartered cucumber should be cooked until 
tender in boiling salted water, which will require about fifteen minutes, 
and then served as directed. Cucumbers may also be cut in slices length- 
wise and fried like summer squash or eggplant. 

STEWED CUCUMBERS. Stew pared cucumbers, cut in quar- 
ters, or in thick slices, for fifteen minutes in a saucepan with a little 
water and a small minced onion. Pour off the water; stir in a little 
flour, butter, and salt; heat for two or three minutes and then serve. 

CUCUMBER SAUTE. Boil pared and quartered cucumbers for 
three minutes only. Then drain the pieces and season with salt and 
pepper. Roll in flour and cook in a saucepan with butter for twenty 
minutes. This dish may be varied by adding minced parsley and a little 
onion about five minutes before the cooking is finished. 

TOMATOES 

The tomato, although not very nutritious, may be classed as one of 
our most useful vegetables. Raw, it makes an attractive and refresh- 
ing salad and may be served by itself or in combination with other 
vegetables, with meat or with fish. As a vegetable the tomato may be 
prepared in many ways. It makes a good foundation for soups and 
sauces. Made into catsup or pickles it serves as a relish. The addition 
of a little tomato gives a pleasant, acid flavor to many soups and sauces, 
and also to meat, fish, and vegetable dishes. If possible the tomatoes 
should ripen fully on the vines, as the flavor is much better than when 
picked green and then allowed to ripen. 

When properly canned this vegetable keeps well and retains its 
natural flavor. The housekeeper who has a generous supply of canned 
tomatoes on hand will find them very valuable at all times of the year, 
but especially in the winter months when the variety of vegetables is 
not great. 

Overcooking spoils the flavor and color of the tomato. 

TO PEEL TOMATOES. Put the ripe tomatoes into a dish and 
pour boiling water over them. Let them rest in the water about one 
minute ; then pour the water off. The thin skin will now peel off readily. 

When a quantity of tomatoes are to be peeled have a deep stew-pan 
a little more than half filled with boiling water and on the fire where 
the water will continue to boil. Put the tomatoes in a frying-basket and 
lower into the boiling water. Let the basket remain one minute in the 
water. There must, of course, be water enough to cover the tomatoes. 

STEWED TOMATOES. Peel the tomatoes and cut into small 
pieces. Put into a stew-pan and on the fire. Boil gently for twenty min- 
utes or half an hour, counting from the time it begins to boil. Season 
five minutes before the cooking is finished. Allow for each quart of 
tomatoes one generous teaspoon each of salt and sugar and one table- 
spoon or more of butter or drippings. 

64 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

1 pint peeled and cut tomatoes 1 level teaspoon salt 

or canned tomatoes 1 tablespoon butter or. drippings 

1 pint grated bread crumbs A few grains of pepper 

Reserve three tablespoons of bread crumbs, and spread the re- 
mainder on a pan. Brown in the oven, being careful not to burn them. 
Mix the tomato, browned crumbs, salt, pepper, and half the butter or 
drippings together, and put in a shallow baking-dish. Spread the un- 
browned crumbs on top, and dot -with the remainder of the butter or 
drippings, cut into bits. Bake in a moderately hot oven for half an 
hour. The top of this dish should be brown and crisp. 

TOMATO TOAST. Boil one quart of peeled and cut tomatoes or 
canned tomato pulp for ten minutes, then rub through a strainer. Re- 
turn to the stew-pan and add two level teaspoons of salt, half a tea- 
spoon of pepper, and two tablespoons of butter or drippings. Place 
on the fire and cook five minutes. Have the bottom of a hot platter cov- 
ered with well-toasted slices of bread and pour the hot tomato over it. 
Serve at once. A poached egg may be put on each slice of toast. 

GREEN PEPPER 

The sweet green pepper, though fairly common in our city markets, 
is not as widely known as a vegetable as it deserves. Sliced, it makes 
a very fine salad alone, or mixed with other salad plants like lettuce. 
Stuffed and baked peppers are very palatable. 

GREEN PEPPERS STUFFED AND BAKED. See Stuffed Pep- 
pers, page 35, 

EGGPLANT 

BAKED EGGPLANT. For baked eggplant make a dressing as 
for stuffed peppers, except that a little more salt, pepper, and butter or 
drippings are used. Cut the eggplant in two lengthwise, scrape out the 
inside, and mash it fine, then mix with the dressing and return to the 
shells. Place on a pan and in the oven. Cook forty-five minutes. 

FRIED EGGPLANT. For fried eggplant cut the vegetable in 
slices about half an inch thick and pare. Sprinkle the slices with salt 
and pile them upon one another, put a plate with a weight on top of the 
slices. Let them rest for an hour, then remove weight and plate. Add 
one tablespoon of water, half a tablespoon of salt, and half a teaspoon 
of pepper to an egg. Beat well. Dip the slices of eggplant in the 
egg, then in dried bread crumbs. Spread on a dish for twenty or more 
minutes. Fry till brown (in deep fat). 

SQUASH 

The various varieties of the summer squash are generally cooked 
when so small and tender that the thumb nail can pierce the rind easily. 

65 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

V 

To prepare for the table wash the squash, cut into small pieces, and 
either cook in boiling water or steam it. Jt will cook in boiling water in 
half an hour. It takes about an hour to cook it in the steamer. The 
cooked squash is mashed fine and seasoned with salt, pepper, and butter 
or butter substitute. This method gives a delicate flavored but rather 
watery dish. 

Summer squash is very palatable cut in slices and fried like egg- 
plant. 

From the more mature squash remove the thin skin and seeds. Cut 
the squash in small pieces and put in a stew-pan with boiling water 
enough to cover. Boil for half an hour. Drain, mash, and season with 
salt, pepper, and butter or butter substitute. 

Cook winter squash in the same manner. Squash is one of the 
vegetables that require a good deal of butter or butter substitute. 

GREEN CORN 

Green corn, a typical American food product, is a vegetable which, 
for most palates, is easily spoiled by overcooking, since the longer the 
cooking period the less pronounced the delicate corn flavor. 

BOILED CORN ON THE COB. The most satisfactory way to 
serve green corn is on the cob. Free the corn from husks and "silk." 
Have a kettle of water boiling hard, drop the corn into the water and 
cook ten minutes. If only a few ears of corn are put in a kettle of boil- 
ing water, the temperature of the water is not lowered greatly and the 
corn will cook in eight minutes. On the other hand, if a large quantity 
of corn is crowded into a kettle of boiling water, the temperature is very 
much lowered and the time of cooking must be increased. When pos- 
sible, surround the corn with a generous quantity of boiling water. 

CORN CUT FROM COB. Corn may be cut from the cob and 
heated with butter or butter substitute, pepper, and a little milk. For 
this dish cook the ears five minutes in boiling water to set the juice. 
Then with a sharp knife cut through the center of each row of grains 
and with the back of a case knife press the grains of corn from the hulls. 
Put the corn in a saucepan and season with salt, pepper, and. butter or 
butter substitute. Add enough hot milk to moisten well, and cook ten 
minutes. Serve at once. 

The raw corn may be cut from the cob and treated in the same 
manner. 

SUCCOTASH. To a pint of corn cooked as above add a pint of 
cooked and seasoned shelled beans. 

VEGETABLE HASH 

Hash may be made with one or many cooked vegetables, the vege- 
table or vegetables b-^ing used alone or combined with meat or fish. 
Potato is the most v :'ul vegetable for a hash, as it combines well with 
the animal food or with other vegetables. 

66 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

The conditions essential to a good hash are that the vegetables shall 
be cut fairly fine, but not so fine that the pieces shall lose their shape or 
stick together that is, the particles should drop apart readily when 
shaken on a fork. Each vegetable must be cut up separately, then all 
be mixed. The vegetables, or vegetable, and meat or fish must be well 
seasoned with salt and pepper, and if liked there may be added a little 
minced onion, parsley, or green pepper finely minced. The hash must 
be moistened a little with meat broth, milk, or water (not more than 
half a cup for a quart of hash). When the hash is mixed, seasoned, 
and moistened, put a tablespoon of butter or drippings in a frying-pan. 
When this is melted put in the hash, and spread evenly and lightly in 
the pan. Over this put little dots of butter or drippings, using about 
one tablespoon in all. Cover the pan and place where the hash will 
not burn, but where the heat is fairly good, and cook half an hour, then 
fold and turn on a hot platter. A rich brown crust will have formed 
on the bottom of the hash if the heat was sufficient. Serve very hot. 
The plates on which hash is served should be hot. 

VEGETABLE SOUPS 

Nearly every vegetable grown may be employed in the preparation 
of soups, either as the foundation for the soup or as a garnish to any 
kind of meat stock. Meat, meat broth, or beef extract may be added to 
any of them if additional flavor is desired. 

POTATO SOUP. 

4 medium-sized potatoes 24 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons minced onion *4 teaspoon pepper 

l /2 tablespoon butter or butter 1 teaspoon minced parsley 

substitute 1 pint milk 

T /2 tablespoon flour 

Pare the potatoes and put in a stew-pan with the onion. Cover with 
boiling water and put over a hot fire. Cook thirty minutes, counting 
from the time the pan is put over the fire. Reserve half a cup of the 
milk cold, and put the balance to heat in the double boiler. Mix the flour 
with the cold milk and stir into the boiling milk. When the potatoes, 
etc., have been cooking thirty minutes pour off the water, saving it to 
use later. Mash and beat the vegetables until light and fine, then grad- 
ually beat in the water in which they were boiled, rub through the 
puree sieve and then put back on the fire. Add the salt and pepper. 
Peat with an egg- whisk for three minutes, then gradually beat in the 
boiling milk. Add the butter or butter substitute and minced parsley 
and serve at once. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

1 quart peeled and finely cut 2 teaspoons salt 
tomatoes or canned tomato y 2 teaspoon pepper 
pulp 2 tablespoons butter or drip- 

1 quart cold water pings 

1 onion 2 tablespoons flour 

1 tablespoon sugar 

67 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

Put into a stew-pan all the ingredients, except the butter or dripping 
and flour, the onion being left whole. Stir frequently until the soup 
boils, then cook fifteen minutes, counting from the time it begins to boil. 
At the end of this time beat the butter or drippings and flour together 
until light and smooth and stir into the soup. Cook ten minutes longer, 
then take out the onion and serve the soup with toasted or fried bread. 
If a smooth soup is desired strain through a fine sieve. This is the 
simplest kind of tomato soup. It may be varied by the addition of rice, 
macaroni, beans, peas, and other vegetables. Instead of the fried bread, 
stale bread may be cut in small pieces and put in the bottom of the soup 
tureen. 

ONION CHOWDER. 

3 quarts boiling water J^ teaspoon pepper 

1 pint minced onion 3 tablespoons butter or drip- 

1 quart potatoes cut in dice pings 

3 teaspoons salt 1 tablespoon fine herbs 

Cook the onion and butter or drippings together for half an hour, but 
slowly, so that the onion will not brown. At the end of this time add the 
boiling, water, potatoes, salt, and pepper and cook one hour longer, then 
add the fine herbs and serve. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 

1 quart shelled peas 2 tablespoons butter or drip- 

3 pints water pings 

1 quart milk 1 tablespoon flour 

1 onion 3 level teaspoons salt 

]/2 teaspoon pepper 

Put the peas in a stew-pan with the boiling water and onion and 
cook until tender, which will be about half an hour. Pour off the water, 
saving for use later. Mash the peas fine, then add the water in which 
they were boiled, and rub through a puree sieve. Return to the sauce- 
pan, add flour and butter or drippings, beaten together, and the salt and 
pepper. Now gradually add the milk, which must be boiling hot. Beat 
well and cook ten minutes, stirring frequently. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP. See page 23. 
BEAN SOUP. See page 23. 

FRIED VEGETABLES FOR SEASONING. Vegetables when 
used raw as a seasoning give a strong flavor, and only a little of each 
should be used. For flavoring soups, sauces, stews, etc., fried vegetables 
are far superior to the raw. To prepare them for use, clean and peel or 
scrape the vegetables, then cut them into small pieces, and put in a 
saucepan with butter or drippings, allowing two generous tablespoons 
of butter or drippings to a pint of vegetables. Place on a hot part of the 
range and stir until the butter or drippings and vegetables become hot. 
Partially cover the saucepan and set back, where the vegetables, which 
should be stirred often, will cook slowly for half an hour. Then add the 
vegetables to the dish they are to flavor. 

68 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

VEGETABLE SALADS AND DRESSINGS 

Nearly all vegetables may be served in the form of salad. The 
salads made with the raw vegetables are more refreshing and perhaps 
more generally relished than those made with cooked vegetables. The 
most common green salad plant in the United States is undoubtedly 
lettuce, and perhaps celery, alone or mixed with other materials, next. 
Endive, chicory, blanched dandelion, and other plants should also be 
used, as they give a pleasant variety to the menu. 

Raw vegetables should be used only when they are young, tender, 
and fresh. When boiled green vegetables are used for a salad they 
should not be cooked so long that they lose crispness and flavor. Salad 
dressings are usually sharp or pungent sauce, with which the salad is 
moistened and seasoned, or "dressed." The best all-round salad dressing 
is what is known as French salad dressing (see page 14). This is 
suitable for any vegetable salad, raw or cooked. 

CABBAGE SALAD. Either red or white cabbage may be used for 
salad, and must be firm, crisp, and tender. Remove the outer leaves and 
cut the tender cabbage into fine shreds. Wash well and let soak in cold 
water for half an hour. Drain and season with French dressing or 
cooked salad dressing. Serve at once. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. This vegetable should always be crisp and 
fresh when used. There is an old and widespread belief that cucumbers 
are more wholesome if the slices are soaked in cold water or in salted 
water before serving. Doubtless the distress which some persons expe- 
rience after eating cucumbers is due to the fact that they are swallowed 
without proper mastication. It does not seem probable that there is any 
unwholesome property in this vegetable when we recall the extent to 
which it is eaten in some other countries and the good reputation which 
it bears there. 

Cucumbers should be pared and sliced thin, and then may be dressed 
with oil and vinegar, like lettuce, or with a little vinegar, salt, and pep- 
per. Cucumbers are at their best for salads when fairly young, and 
should not be used after the seeds have become hard and tough, as most 
persons consider them objectionable. 



69 



CEREALS 

Cereals rank first among vegetable foods. They contain in varying 
proportions all the elements necessary to support life. They contain a 
great deal of starch, which is needed to keep the body warm and to make 
it do its work. A bowl of oatmeal, eaten for breakfast, will furnish the 
average man with all the strength, heat and energy he will need. 
Cereals with cooked fruits are particularly appetizing. 

It is best not to buy cereals in very large quantities, because, if they 
are kept too long, insects are apt to develop in them. Cereals should 
always be kept in glass-covered jars. 

Cereals are improved by long cooking. Therefore, oatmeal, hominy 
arid other cereals which are left over can be added next day to the fresh- 
cooked cereals. 

Left-over cereal can be molded cold and served with either fresh or 
cooked fruit, or it can be used in making pancakes, muffins and pud- 
dings; also to make gruel for sick people. Cold hominy and corn-meal 
mush can be cut into slices and fried. This makes an excellent vege- 
table or breakfast dish, with or without syrup. 

All cereals should be cooked at first for ten minutes directly over 
the fire and then put into a double boiler. If you haven't a double boiler, 
place the saucepan containing the cereal in a larger saucepan that con 
tains hot water. By using a fireless cooker you can prepare your cereal 
at night, cook it on the stove for about ten minutes, put it in the fireless 
cooker, and when you get up in the morning you will find it all cooked 
and ready to be eaten. In this way you save both time and fuel. 

If you want to save time in the morning, you can soak your hominy, 
corn-meal or oatmeal overnight. If this is done, it will take only one- 
half the length of time for cooking. 

Cereals requiring more than one hour to cook should be cooked the' 
day before they are to be eaten and reheated in the morning. 

Cook steam-cooked cereals, as a rule, twice as long as is directed 
on the package. Only by long cooking are cereals made wholesome and 
well-flavored. When not cooked enough they often occasion sickness. 

Stir coarse, flaky cereals as little as possible. Fine, granular cereals 
may be beaten. To keep these fine cereals from lumping, mix them with 
cold water instead of sprinkling them dry into boiling water. 

Cereals should absorb all the water they are cooked in ; if too moist 
when nearly done, cook uncovered for a time. 

To improve rice, farina or hominy, stir in one-quarter of a cup of 
milk about fifteen minutes before taking from fire, and leave the cover 
off during the rest of the time. 

Both corn-meal and hominy are made from corn. Rolled oats is 
'the entire oat crushed and rolled. Both corn and oats are full of heat, 
energy and flesh-building material and are a most healthful food for you 
to eat. 

Fried corn-meal or hominy is a pleasing and satisfactory substitute 
for potatoes and costs less than potatoes. 

70 



CEREALS 

There is a large hominy, sometimes called Samp, which people in 
this city do not seem to know and use very little. TRY IT AS A VEGE- 
TABLE IN PLACE OF POTATOES. It costs less, tastes good and 
contains more nourishment than potatoes. 

Rice contains more energy-giving material than potatoes and can 
be used in place of potatoes. 

Potatoes are three-quarters water, while rice has practically no 
w^ater. 

Potatoes are one-fifth starch, while rice is more than three-quarters 
starch, and starch gives heat and energy to the body. 

Rice contains two-thirds more flesh-building material than potatoes. 
Therefore a given amount of money will buy four times as much food 
value if spent for rice as it will if spent for potatoes. If used with 
cheese, peas, beans or lentils, rice will give you practically all the food 
your body needs. 

Cheese contains the same flesh-building material as meat and can 
be used in place of meat, and while the price of cheese has gone up of 
late, only a very small quantity is needed, if combined with rice or 
macaroni, to make a dish that will take the place of both meat and pota- 
toes. 

Peas, beans and lentils are rich in flesh-building material and when 
combined with rice in an appetizing way will take the place of both meat 
and potatoes. 

Many people do not like rice. This is largely because they do not 
know how to cook it properly or how to combine it with other foods so 
as to make it taste well. 

The eating of rice in place of all other foods is not advised, but the 
cost of living can be greatly reduced by using rice in place of potatoes, 
and by using rice combined with cheese, peas, beans or lentils in place 
of both meat and potatoes. 

When you buy rice, ask for "Standard Grade Head Rice." 



TRY THE FOLLOWING CEREAL RECIPES 

THEY ARE WHOLESOME, PALATABLE 

AND INEXPENSIVE 



71 



CEREAL RECIPES 

OATMEAL PORRIDGE Oatmeal requires to be cooked until 
very soft, but should not be mushy. ,The ordinary rule is to put a cup 
of meal into a quart of salted boiling water (a teaspoonful of salt), 
and let it cook in double boiler the required time. It is well to keep the 
pan covered until the oatmeal is cooked; then remove the cover and let 
the moisture evaporate until the oatmeal is of the right consistency. It 
should be moist enough to drop but not run from the spoon. It should 
be lightly stirred occasionally to prevent its sticking to the pan, but 
carefully, so as not to break the grains. 

If carefully cooked, the sides of the pan will not be covered with 
burned oatmeal, and so wasted. 

OATMEAL GRUEL Boil two-thirds of a cup of well-cooked oat- 
meal in one cup of boiling water fifteen minutes. Add an equal amount 
of milk, a few grains of salt and a grating of nutmeg. It may be served 
strained or unstrained. 

OATMEAL MUSH WITH APPLES Core apples, leaving large 
cavities ; pare and cook until soft in syrup made by boiling sugar and 
water together, allowing one-half cup of sugar to one and one-half cups 
water. Fill cavities with oatmeal mush ; serve with the syrup in which 
the apples were cooked. 

CORN-MEAL MUSH Sprinkle with the hand a pint of corn-meal 
into boiling salted water, a little at a time. Cook for two hours over a 
slow fire. If the corn-meal is soaked overnight, just add it to boiling 
salted water the following morning and cook for an hour over a slow 
fire. This may be eaten cold or hot, with milk or with butter and sugar 
or with syrup. 

CORN-MEAL MUFFINS 

1 cup corn-meal 6 level teaspoons baking-powder 

]/2 cup flour 1 cup "milk 

YI teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon butter or melted drippings 

Mix well the corn-meal, flour, salt and baking-powder. Stir in milk 
and add butter or melted drippings. Bake in hot oven for 20 minutes. 
You can use greased muffin-pans or bake it in one loaf. 

FRIED CORN MUSH Pour well-boiled corn-meal mush into a 
bread-tin or a dish with straight sides. After it is cold cut into even 
slices and fry so that a crisp crust is formed on both sides. 

CORN-MEAL MUSH WITH CHEESE Instead of being fried, 
the slices of mush can be browned in a greased pan in the oven. They 
can also be made into a savory dish to be eaten with bread, by sprinkling 
them with grated cheese and a little salt, pepper and finely minced 
parsley. Place in the oven to melt the cheese. 

72 



CEREAL RECIPES 

HOMINY GRITS Add one cup of hominy to 4 cups of boiling 
water. Cook for ten minutes directly over the fire and then put into a 
double boiler. Cook for two hours, stir occasionally, very lightly. If 
hominy is soaked overnight, add it in the morning to the boiling water 
and cook for an hour. This may be eaten hot or cold, with milk, 
or with butter and sugar, or with syrup. 

FRIED HOMINY Cut cold boiled hominy into even slices and 
fry so that a crisp crust is formed on both sides. 

LARGE HOMINY (sometimes called Samp) Soak one cup of 
samp overnight. In the morning add four cups of boiling salted water 
(1 teaspoon salt). Boil until soft but not mushy. Pour off water, put 
in dish and place in warm oven for a few minutes to dry off. Plain 
boiled samp is usually used as a vegetable in place of potatoes. 

CEREAL MUFFINS- 

J/2 cup cooked cereal (left-over) 1 tablespoon butter or melted 

\y 2 cups flour drippings 

6 level teaspoons baking-powder 1 cup milk 

l /> teaspoon salt 

Mix well the flour, baking-powder and salt. Add milk to the cooked 
cereal and then stir it into the flour, baking-powder and salt. Then add 
the melted butter or drippings. Bake in hot oven for 20 to 30 minutes. 
You can use buttered muffin-pans or bake in one loaf. 

CEREAL MOLDED WITH FRUIT Take left-over cold cereal. 
If very stiff, add. a little milk or water and stir into it a few scalded 
cut-up dates or figs. Prunes or any other cooked fruit can be used in 
place of dates or figs. Pour into a mold and serve cold with a little 
sugar and milk. Tf prunes are used serve with the juice of the prunes. 

CEREAL PANCAKES 

1 cup sweet milk 1 cup cooked cereal (left-over) 

1 cup flour 1 egg 

2 teaspoons baking-powder 1 teaspoon salt 

Beat the egg and cooked cereal together until light and smooth and 
stir in the milk. Sift the flour and salt together and add to the cereal 
mixture. When ready to bake the cakes, stir in the baking-powder and 
beat the batter vigorously. Cook on hot pan. 

CEREAL PUDDING- 

1 cup cooked cereal (left-over) l / 2 cup molasses 

2 cups scalded milk \ l / 2 teaspoon salt 

\ l /2 tablespoons butter or butter substitute 

Pour milk on cereal and mix well. Add remaining ingredients, 
pour into greased pudding-dish and bake one hour in slow oven. 

CORN-MEAL PUDDING- 

5 cups scalded milk 1 teaspoon salt 

l /2 cup corn-meal 1 teaspoon ginger l /> cup molasses 

Pour milk slowly on corn-meal, cook in double boiler twenty min- 

73 



CEREAL RECIPES 

utes, add molasses, salt and ginger; pour into greased pudding-dish and 
bake two hours in slow oven. Ginger may be omitted. 

BOILED RICE 

1 cup rice 2 quarts boiling water 1 tablespoon salt 

Pick over rice ; add slowly to rapidly boiling water, a few grains at 
a time so as not to check boiling of water. After all rice has been added, 
stir once only, using a fork to avoid breaking grains. Boil thirty min- 
utes, or until soft, adding salt when nearly cooked. Drain in coarse 
strainer, and pour one quart hot water over the rice ; put in dish and 
place in warm oven to dry off. 

The water should be boiling all the time you are adding the rice. 
That is why you should add a few grains at a time. If you put all the 
rice in at once, the water will stop boiling and the rice grains will all 
stick together instead of each one being separate and distinct as it should 
be in properly cooked rice. 

Plain boiled rice is usually used as a vegetable in place of potatoes. 
Save water in which rice was cooked and use it for soups and gravies. 

CREAM OF RICE SOUP. (See page 21.) 
SAVORY RICE. (See page 27.) 

RICE BALLS WITH TOMATO SAUCE Make balls of hot 
cooked rice and serve with hot tomato sauce. 

RICE WITH CHEESE. (See page 27.) 

TURKISH RICE Wash and drain one-half cup rice ; cook in one 
tablespoon butter (or drippings) until brown; add one cup boiling 
water, and steam until water is absorbed. Add one and three-fourths 
cups hot stewed tomatoes, cook until rice is soft, and season with salt 
and pepper. 

RICE AND CABBAGE- 

1 cup stock or boiling water % CU P boiled rice 

2 thin slices bacon ^ teaspoon chopped parsley 
]/ 2 medium-sized cabbage Salt and pepper to taste 
Chop the bacon finely ; add cabbage finely chopped and moisten 

with the boiling water or stock. Cook slowly, uncovered, for 30 min- 
utes. Add the rice, parsley, salt and pepper and cook 15 minutes longer. 

BAKED RICE AND CHEESE. (See page 28.) 

KIDNEY BEANS AND RICE WITH BROWN SAUCE Put 

two tablespoons of butter or drippings in a saucepan and brown until 
dark, but do not burn it. Add one tablespoon flour, stir and brown 
again. Add two cups good stock (beef is best) ; season with salt and 
pepper. Cook one pint fresh shelled beans in salted water until tender. 
Add one cup of cooked rice; then add the sauce, and cook one minute 
longer. Gravy can be used in place of the stock. If gravy is used, but- 
ter or dripping should be left out. In food value this dish takes the 
place of both meat and potatoes. 

LENTILS AND RICE. (See page 30.) 

74 



CEREAL RECIPES 

LENTILS AND RICE CROQUETTES. (See page 30.) 
CURRIED TOMATOES AND RICE 

1 cjt. stewed tomatoes or 1 teaspoon curry-powder 

1 qt.-can of tomato pulp Salt to taste 

1 cup boiled rice 

Add the curry-powder and salt to the tomatoes ; mix well. Put a 
layer of the tomatoes in the bottom of a baking-dish, then a layer of the 
rice, then a layer of tomatoes, and so on until all is used, having the last 
layer tomatoes; sprinkle the top over with bread crumbs and bake in a 
moderate oven for a half hour. Serve in the dish in which it was baked. 

RICE WITH GRAVY Boil rice. (See "Boiled Rice.") Heat any 
left-over gravy you have and pour over the rice. 

RICE WITH STEWED PRUNES Wash and pick over prunes. 
Put in a saucepan, cover with cold water, and soak two hours; then cook 
until soft in same water. When nearly cooked, add sugar to sweeten. 
Many prefer the addition of a small quantity of lemon juice. Serve with 
any left-over cold rice. 

Any dried fruit may be cooked and used in place of prunes. 

SIMPLE RICE PUDDING Wash a cup of rice ; then boil it on 
the stove in a quart of water for about 5 to 10 minutes. Take it off the 
stove and do not drain ; then add a quart of milk, 24 cup of sugar, l / 2 tea- 
spoon salt and a little nutmeg. Put it in the oven and bake very slowly 
for about 1 hour. Stir it frequently while it is baking. 

COLD RICE Cold rice can be added to any soup, made into cro- 
quettes, used in a scalloped dish, or it can be mixed with minced meat 
and egg and fried like an omelet. 

Cold rice can be mixed with a small quantity of meat, and used for 
stuffing eggplant ; or it can be reheated or made into pudding. 

A few spoons of left-over rice mixed with a little chopped meat, 
or fish, and a few spoons of gravy or white sauce to moisten it, can 
be put in a baking-dish, covered with bread crumbs, and baked in 
the oven. 



.': .. 
- id ::!v/ u 

.../i 

uoY 

,w uoY 



75 



BREAD 

Freshly baked bread is not as healthy as bread that is a day or more 
old. In the case of dyspeptics, doctors first of all forbid fresh bread and 
insist upon the patient eating bread a day or two old. 

In addition to being better for you physically, yesterday's bread is 
better for your pocketbook, for it does not cost as much as to-day's bread. 

Every Penny Saved Is a Penny Earned. 

Here is one way to improve your health and that of your family and 
at the same time save money. 

As a people, we have more or less formed the habit of eating white 
bread only and do not realize that other breads, such as whole-wheat, 
rye, and whole-corn-meal bread are extremely palatable and much more 
nutritious. In fact, by using whole-wheat flour or whole-corn-meal you 
get 30% more nourishment from the same amount of flour. 

While it is important that grown people should use whole-wheat, 
rye, or whole-corn-meal bread instead of white bread, it is still more 
important for children. White bread is not good for growing children, 
for white flour does not contain the lime or other mineral salts necessary 
to build up bones and teeth. In addition to this, whole-wheat flour 
prevents constipation and adds to the general health. 

We should use whole-wheat flour and whole-corn-meal instead of 
white flour, not only because they are more nutritious but because of 
the waste that can be saved. In milling white flour only 73% of the 
wheat is used, while in milling whole- wheat flour 85% of the wheat is 
used. You can see for yourself that if people would use whole wheat 
bread in place of white bread the wheat that is now wasted would be 
saved. This would increase the bread supply of this country by 
nearly 9%. 

In view of the present food crisis you should resolve to do your 
share toward saving the waste that now takes place. Here is your 
opportunity to help correct one of the nation's extremely wasteful habits 
and, while doing so, help yourself. 

Because of our large shipments to Europe our supply of wheat is 
extremely low at the present time and the help of every housewife is 
required to make our present supply cover the needs of Europe as well 
as this country. By using whole-wheat bread, rye bread, corn bread, 
rice bread and rolled-oats bread in place of white bread : 

You will be giving your family a nourishing bread ; 

You will be helping your country to correct one of its wasteful 
habits; 

You will be helping to feed your own countrymen ; 

You will be helping to feed Europe ; 

You will be learning now an economy that you will be obliged to 
adopt before many years go by. 

Here is your opportunity to do something 

FOR YOUR COUNTRY; 

FOR YOUR FAMILY; FOR YOURSELF. 

76 



BREAD RECIPES 

FLOUR. Flour should always be kept in a cool, dry place, away 
from dust, flies, and vermin, and, since it absorbs flavors easily, away 
from other foods or other supplies which have strong odors. This ap- 
plies equally to the home and to the store. 



YEAST. When in good condition compressed yeast is soft and 
yet brittle and is the same color throughout, a creamy white. It should 
have no odor except that of yeast, which is familiar to most people but 
difficult to describe. 

FAT. Fat, if used, may be butter, lard, beef fat, cottonseed oil, 
or any other of the ordinary fats used in cooking. It should, however, 
be wholesome, of good quality, and in good condition. Bread is so little 
improved by the addition of fat that it is a mistake to run the slightest 
risk of injuring its flavor by using fat of questionable quality. 

KNEADING. Dust a little flour on the dough and on the palms 
of your hands. Fold the edge of the dough farthest from you toward 
the center of the mass, immediately pressing the dough down and 
away from you with a gentle rolling motion of the palms of the hands, 
twice repeated. Turn the dough so that what was the right-hand part 
of it shall be farthest away from you ; fold over and knead as before ; 
continue to do this, turning the dough and flouring your hands, the 
board, and the dough, to keep the dough from sticking. Should it stick 
to the board, scrape it free with a dull knife and flour the board anew. 
Knead the dough until it does not stick to your hands or the board, is 
smooth on the surface, feels spongy and elastic, and rises quickly after 
being indented. 

The use of a bread-mixer saves labor and is more sanitary than 
kneading by hand. 

FIRST RISING. Replace the dough-ball in a wet bowl, brush 
the top with water, cover the bowl with several thicknesses of cloth, 
and set it near -the stove or in a pan of warm water, turning another 
pan over it. 

SECOND RISING. Whejfi the dough has risen to twice its original 
bulk, lift it on to the board and shape into small loaves, handling lightly 
and using no additional flour. Put into pans, and let it stand in a warm 
place, covered with a thick clean cloth, until it has again doubled in bulk. 

BAKING. When the dough is nearly risen, test the oven ; it should 
be hot enough to turn a piece of writing paper dark brown in six min- 
utes. Bake, small loaves thirty-five minutes; brick loaves, four inches 
thick, fifty to sixty minutes. Turn the pans if the bread does not bake 

evenly. 

77 



BREAD RECIPES 

, WHOLE-WHEAT BREAD (with a sponge). 

Whole-wheat flour, about 3 Compressed yeast, 1 cake 

cups Salt, 3 teaspoons 

Lukewarm water, 1*4 cups Sugar, 2 tablespoons 

Mix the yeast smoothly with one-fourth of a cup of the water; 
dissolve salt and sugar in the rest of the water in a bowl ; stir the yeast 
into this; and then stir in enough flour to make a drop-batter. Beat 
until the batter is full of bubbles (not less than five minutes), cover 
the bowl, and let the batter, or sponge, rise until doubled in bulk. 
Stir in the rest of the flour, beat thoroughly. Turn out on a floured 
board and knead thoroughly. Turn into pans, and let rise until not 
quite doubled in bulk, and bake for 45 or 50 minutes. For an overnight 
rising use half the amount of yeast. 

CORN-MEAL-AND-WHEAT BREAD. 

\ l / 2 cups milk, water, or a mix- 1 tablespoon sugar 

ture of the two 1 tablespoon fat (if used) 

1 cake compressed yeast 1 cup corn-meal 

lJ/2 teaspoons salt 2 cups wheat flour 

Pour \% cups of the water over the corn-meal, salt, sugar, and 
fat (if used), and heat the mixture gradually to the boiling point or 
nearly to it and cook 20 minutes. This cooking can be done best in a 
double boiler. The water is sufficient only to soften the meal a little. 
Allow the meal to cool to about the temperature of the room and add 
the flour and yeast, mixed with the rest of the water. Knead thor- 
oughly, let rise until it doubles its bulk, make into a loaf, place in a pan, 
allow to rise until it nearly fills the pan, and bake 45 or 50 minutes. 
For an overnight rising use half the amount of yeast. 

RICE BREAD. 

1 cup lukewarm water, milk, or 1 tablespoon sugar 

a mixture of tlie two Butter (if used) or other fat, 

1 cup uncooked rice 1 tablespoon or less 

1J4 teaspoons salt 1 cake compressed yeast 

2 cups wheat flour 

Steam the rice with one-half of the liquid until it is soft. This is 
done in a double boiler. Put the sugar, salt, and fat (if used) into 
the mixing bowl and pour over them the remaining liquid ( l / 2 cup). 
When the mixture has become lukewarm add the yeagt and l / 2 cup of 
flour. Allow this sponge to rise until very light. Add the boiled rice, 
which should have been cooled until lukew r arm, and the rest of the flour. 
Knead thoroughly. This dough is so thick that some pressure is re- 
quired to work in the last portions of the flour. Allow the dough to rise 
until it has doubled its bulk, form into a loaf, place in a pan and allow to 
rise until it nearly reaches the top of the pan, and bake. For an over- 
night rising use half the amount of yeast. 

RYE BREAD. 

1 quart milk \ l /> cake compressed yeast 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 cup wheat flour 
4 tablespoons salt 2 cups rye flour 

2 tablespoons fat 

78 



BREAD RECIPES 

Scald the milk. Put the sugar and salt (and fat, if used) into a 
mixing bowl. Pour the hot liquid over it and allow it to become luke- 
warm. Mix the yeast with a little of the lukewarm liquid arid add it to 
the rest of the liquid. If convenient, set this aside in a warm place for 
one hour ; if not convenient to set it aside, add the flour at once, putting 
in a little at a time. Mix well; turn out on a floured board and knead 
until the dough is of such consistency that it sticks neither to the bowl 
nor to the hands. This requires about 10 minutes. Cover, and allow to 
rise 1^4 hours in a warm place. Cut down the dough from the sides of 
the bowl ; grease the hands slightly. Knead a little and set aside to rise 
again for one hour. At this point the dough should be placed in a 6- 
quart bowl lined with a cloth into which flour has been rubbed. When 
the dough has risen to the top of the bowl turn out on a hot sheet iron (a 
dripping pan inverted will do), over which 1 tablespoon of flour has 
been sprinkled, and put it immediately into a very hot oven. After 10 
minutes lower the temperature somewhat and bake for 1 hour. For an 
overnight rising use half the amout of yeast. 

ROLLED-OATS BREAD. 

2 cups boiling water J^ cup lukewarm water 

y 2 cup brown sugar \ l / 2 cups rolled oats 

2 teaspoons salt 5 cups flour 
\ l / 2 yeast cake 

Dissolve the yeast cake in the lukewarm water. Pour the boiling 
water over the rolled oats, salt, and sugar, and let stand until lukewarm ; 
add the dissolved yeast and flour. Let rise until very light, beat thor- 
oughly and then knead thoroughly, and turn into two buttered bread 
pans. When the loaves have doubled their volume bake them an hour 
in a moderate oven. For an overnight rising use half the amount of 
yeast. 



79 



HOW TO USE LEFT-OVERS 

European housewives are noted for knowing how to combine left- 
overs in such a way as to make most savory and nourishing dishes; 
indeed, it is a common saying that a European family can live on what 
the average family in this country throws away. 

Every scrap of food left over from a meal can be used in some way. 

Learn to save money by avoiding waste. 

If possible, buy for more than just one meal at a time ; in other 
words, when buying plan to have something left over for another meal, 
particularly where the cooking takes a long time or where the food can* 
be reheated to advantage. This will save you time, labor and money. 

LEFT-OVER MEAT Left-over beef, lamb, mutton and veal are 
excellent for hash, scalloped dishes, croquettes, a loaf, and salads. Left- 
over beef, lamb or mutton make excellent stews, with the addition of 
any left-over vegetables. Any left-over meat, vegetables and gravy can 
be used to make a meat pie. A left-over ham-bone will greatly improve 
the flavor of pea or bean soup. Any kind of cold meat can be chopped 
and used in an omelet, or combined with rice and tomatoes, used for 
scalloped dish. 

LEFT-OVER POULTRY Left-over chicken or turkey makes ex- 
cellent hash, scalloped dishes, croquettes, creamed dishes, and salads. 
The carcass of a chicken or a turkey makes a splendid soup. Stuffing 
left from chicken or turkey can be sliced thin, browned in the oven, and 
served on toast. 

LEFT-OVER FISH Any left-over fish can be used for creamed 
dishes, croquettes, fish pudding, and scalloped dishes. 

LEFT-OVER VEGETABLES Vegetables are not hurt by re- 
heating. Left-over vegetables can be used for flavoring soups, for mak- 
ing cream soups, scalloped dishes, vegetable hash, filling for an omelet, 
and for salads. The leaves of celery and any left-over parsley are valu- 
able in the soup pot for flavoring. They can be dried out in a luke- 
warm oven and kept in a covered jar until needed. The celery roots 
can be saved for soup stock, and the water in which stewed celery has 
been cooked can be saved and used for cream of celery soup. The tops 
of summer beets and turnips, and the outer leaves of lettuce can each 
be cooked as spinach. They make excellent greens. 

LEFT-OVER EGGS Any left-over poached or soft-cooked eggs 
may be returned to the hot water and cooked until hard. They can then 
be chopped and used with left-over meat or fish dishes. Any left-over 
fried eggs, pieces of omelet or scrambled eggs will improve a meat hash. 
When only the yolk of the egg is used, the white can be kept in a cup 
or glass, covered with a damp cloth fastened with an elastic band ; or, 
if only the white is used, the yolk can be kept in the same way. 

80 



HOW TO USE LEFT-OVERS 

LEFT-OVER CEREALS Cereals are improved by long cooking. 
Therefore, oatmeal, hominy and other cereals which are left over can be 
added next day to the fresh-cooked cereal. Left-over cereal may be 
molded cold with fruit, or it may be used in making pancakes, muffins 
and puddings, and also to make gruels for invalids. Cold hominy and 
mush may be cut into squares and fried so that a crisp crust is formed 
on both sides. This makes an excellent . vegetable or breakfast dish. 
Cold hominy or farina may be rolled into balls and fried and used in the 
same way. Cold rice may be added to soup, made into croquettes, used 
in a scalloped dish, or it may be mixed with minced meat and egg and 
fried like an omelet. 

STALE BREAD Small bits of stale bread may be slowly dried in 
the oven until crisp and brittle, then ground in a meat-chopper or rolled. 
These bread crumbs should be kept in a covered jar, and can be used 
for frying croquettes, etc. Larger pieces of stale bread may be eaten 
with soup in place of crackers, or used to make croutons for soup. 
(Croutons are little squares of bread fried in fat. They are usually 
served with pea, bean and cream soups.) Small pieces and broken 
slices of stale bread may be used for stuffing, for griddle cakes, bread 
omelet and puddings. 

CHEESE All the little dried pieces of cheese should be grated and 
put in a covered glass jar. These cheese-crumbs are excellent for many 
made-over dishes, and are particularly good with starchy foods, such as 
potatoes, macaroni, rice, etc. 

SOUR MILK OR CREAM No sour milk or cream 'should be 
wasted. Put it into an earthen or glass jar, little by little, until you 
have half a cup or a cupful. As soon as it thickens, use it for cottage 
cheese, griddle cakes, biscuits, cornbread or gingerbread. 

FRUIT Any fresh fruit that has become soft should be cooked at 
once, with a little sugar added, to make a sauce for puddings, or it can 
be made into jelly. Any left-over canned fruit may be rubbed through 
a sieve and used for a sauce. 

LEARN TO SAVE MONEY BY AVOIDING WASTE. 



81 



LEFT-OVER MEAT RECIPES 

Do not reheat left-over cooked meat for -a long time at a great heat, 
as this will make the meat tough. 

Left-over cooked meat will be much more palatable if highly 
seasoned. 

Left-over beef, lamb, mutton and veal are excellent for hash, scal- 
loped dishes, croquettes, a loaf, and salads. 

Left-over beef, lamb or mutton make excellent stews, with the addi- 
tion of any left-over vegetables. Any left-over meat, vegetables and 
gravy may be used to make a meat pie. 

A left-over ham bone will greatly improve the flavor of pea or bean 
soup. 

Any kind of cold meat may be chopped and used in an omelet or, 
combined with rice and tomatoes, used for a scalloped dish. 

WARMED-OVER BEEF. Melt two tablespoons of drippings, 
add two tablespoons flour, and pour on, gradually, one-half cup stewed 
and strained tomatoes or canned tomato pulp and one-fourth cup stock 
or water. Season with one-half teaspoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon 
paprika, and a few drops onion juice. Add one cup rare cooked chopped 
beef; cook one minute, and serve. 

SCALLOPED BEEF. Chop sufficient cold cooked beef to make 
one pint; season with a teaspoon of salt, a tablespoon of chopped 
parsley and a dash of pepper. Put this in the bottom of a baking-dish. 
Crush six Uneeda biscuits, pour over them a half pint of milk, let them 
stand a minute or two, add one egg, well beaten, a half teaspoon of 
salt and a half teaspoon of pepper. Pour this over the beef and bake in a 
moderate oven twenty minutes to a half hour. 

Other meats may be substituted for beef. 

BEEF LOAF (of Cold Beef). Soak one tablespoon of gelatine 
in one-half cup of cold water ten minutes. Then heat a quarter of a cup 
of well-seasoned stewed tomatoes or canned tomato pulp to boiling, and 
pour over gelatine, stirring well until gelative is dissolved. Have ready 
two cups of chopped and seasoned meat mixed with one tablespoon 
of lemon juice and one small sour pickle minced fine. Stir tomato into 
meat mixture and mould in an earthen dish. Let stand in mould until 
jelly is stiff. Serve cold. (Equally good for Lamb or Mutton.) 

FIRE ISLAND STEW. Melt two tablespoons of drippings; add 
one small onion and cook together until very slightly browned. To 
this add one and one-half, cups of stewed tomatoes or canned tomato 
pulp and let boil slowly for about 15 minutes or until tomatoes are some- 
what thickened. Then add one and one-half cups of cooked macaroni 
and let all cook together, until well thickened. Just before the dinner 
hour, put into saucepan one and one-half to two cups of remnants of 

82 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

tender roast beef, cut small, and thoroughly heat. Do not let the stew 
boil after the meat is added. 

SCALLOP OF ROAST BEEF WITH COOKED RICE. Season 
the rice with one teaspoon of drippings 'to each cup of rice used and 
put a layer in a baking-dish. Cover with cold roast beef chopped not too 
fine, then a layer of sliced tomatoes, stewed tomatoes or canned tomato 
pulp seasoned well with salt and pepper and dots of butter. Repeat 
until the dish is nearly filled, and cover with bread crumbs. Brown 
lightly in oven. 

BEEF FRITTERS. Chop sufficient cold cooked beef to make one 
pint; add to it a teaspoon of salt, and a quarter of a teaspoon of 
pepper. Beat two eggs until light, add to them a half pint of water or 
stock ; stir into this one and a half cups of flour, beat until smooth ; then 
add a teaspoon of baking-powder and the meat. Mix well and drop 
by spoonfuls into smoking hot, deep fat ; cook about three minutes, drain 
on brown paper, and serve with tomato sauce. 

BEEF CROQUETTES. Take cold roast or corned beef. Put it 
into a wooden bowl and chop it fine. Mix with it about twice the 
quantity of hot mashed potatoes or boiled rice, well seasoned with butter 
or drippings and salt. Beat up an egg and work it into the potato or 
rice and meat, then form the mixture into little cakes the size of fish 
balls. Flatten them a little ; roll in flour or egg and cracker crumbs, fry 
in hot fat, browning on both sides. Serve piping hot. Almost any cold 
meat can be used instead of beef. 

BEEF CROQUETTES MADE FROM SOUP MEAT. Chop 
the meat very fine. Season highly with salt, pepper and celery salt. Add 
a little grated nutmeg if desired. To two cups of the chopped meat add 
one beaten egg and moisten with enough tomato sauce to shape into 
croquettes. Roll in egg and crumbs and fry in smoking hot deep fat. 
Serve with hot tomato sauce. 

SOUP MEAT SALAD. Cut beef that has been boiled for soup' 
into half-inch dice; season with onion juice. Mix lightly with some cold 
boiled potatoes cut into half-inch dice, and some parsley chopped fine. 
Pour over it a French dressing, or mayonnaise. Garnish with hard- 
boiled eggs and lettuce. 

MEAT AND POTATO CROQUETTES. Put in a stew-pan 2 
tablespoons of drippings and a slice of onion minced fine; when 
this simmers add a level teaspoon of sifted flour ; stir the mixture until 
it becomes smooth ; then add half a cup of milk and season with salt and 
pepper ; let it come to a boil, stirring it all the while. Now add a cup of 
cold meat chopped fine, and a cup of cold or hot mashed potato. Mix 
all thoroughly and spread on a plate to cool. When cool, shape into balls' 
or rolls. Dip them in beaten egg and roll in cracker or bread crumbs. 
Drop into, smoking hot deep fat and fry about two minutes until a 
delicate brown ; take them out with a skimmer and drain on a piece of 
brown paper. Serve immediately' while hot. Cold rice or hominy may 

83 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

be used in place of the potato; or a cup of cold fish, minced fine, may be 
used in place of meat. 

BAKED HASH. 

1 pint of chopped cooked meat y> pint of gravy or water 

1 pint of chopped raw pota- 1 tablespoon of melted drippings 
toes Salt and pepper to taste 

Mix all the ingredients together, turn into a mould and bake in a 
moderate oven one hour. 

FRICANDELLES. 

2 cups of left-over meat, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 
chopped fine 1 teaspoon onion juice 

2 tablespoons bread crumbs 1 raw egg 

or 1 cup mashed potatoes Salt and pepper to taste 

Mix ingredients, pat into round flat cakes, and fry in hot fat 

until brown. Serve with brown gravy, to which has been added a few 
drops of Worcestershire Sauce. 

MEAT PIE. Combine any left-over meat and vegetables and put 
into a baking-dish. Over this pour any gravy you may have. Then 
make a biscuit crust and place it over the top of the baking-dish. Put 
in oven and bake until the crust is brown. 

Biscuit Crust. 

1 cup flour Enough milk to make a soft 

2 teaspoons baking-powder dough (about y\ to y> cup) 

y 2 teaspoon salt 4 level teaspoons butter or but- 

ter substitute 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Then rub in the butter or but- 
ter substitute until the mixture looks like meal. Add milk gradually. 
When all is moistened, turn out on to a floured board ; roll out to about 
one-fourth inch in thickness and spread over the top of the dish. 

COTTAGE PIE. 

1 cup chopped meat y 2 cup hot milk 

1 cup hot water or gravy 1 tablespoon of drippings 

2 cups hot mashed potato Few grains celery salt 
l /2 teaspoon salt y% teaspoon pepper 

Put meat in an earthen dish, add salt and pepper to taste, and the 
hot water. Mix the remaining ingredients with the mashed potato, and 
spread on top of meat; bake in hot oven until potato is brown. 

PRESSED MEAT. 

1 quart of cold, cooked meat, 1 teaspoon of allspice 
chopped fine l /4 teaspoon of mace 

l /2 teaspoon cloves 1 cup of boiling stock 

l /4 teaspoon of black pepper Salt to taste 

1 teaspoon of cinnamon 

Mix all the ingredients together, then press into a square mould and 

84 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

stand in a cold place to cool. When cold, turn it from the mould, cut it 
into slices, and serve. For this you can use any meat left from soups. 

SOUR HASH. Make a brown gravy; add to it about two teaspoons 
of vinegar, a few drops of Kitchen Bouquet, and a piece of bay-leaf. Salt 
and pepper to taste. (The*se proportions will be about right for one and 
one-half cup gravy.) Cut cold meat in one-half-inch cubes and cook 
slowly in the gravy for half an hour. If too sour, add a little sugar. 

BROWNED HASH. Mix with cooked meat, chopped fine, half as 
much mashed potatoes and any or all of the following "left-over" vegeta- 
bles : Corn, string-beans, stewed tomatoes, onions, carrots, celery or 
cabbage all chopped fine. Put some fat into a heavy iron pan, and wher 
it is smoking hot, spread the mixture over it. Let it heat and brown 
slowly. Then fold it over and serve on a warm platter with poached 
eggs on top, cr with tomato sauce, with some green and red sweet pep- 
pers cooked in it. 

SHEPHERD'S PIE. 

1 pound of cold mutton 1 tablespoon of fat 

1 pint of cold boiled potatoes ^ cup of stock of water 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

The Crust. 

4 good-sized potatoes l /^ cup of milk 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Cut the mutton and boiled potatoes into pieces about one inch 
square ; put them in a deep pie or baking-dish, add the stock or water, 
salt, pepper, and half the fat cut into small bits. Then make the crust as 
follows : Pare and boil the potatoes, then mash them, add the milk, the 
remainder of the fat, salt and pepper. Beat until light. Now add flour 
enough to make a soft dough about one cupful. Roll it out into a 
sheet, make a hole in the center of the crust, to allow the escape of 
steam. Bake in a moderate oven one hour, serve in the same dish. 

SCALLOPED MUTTON. 

2 cups tomato sauce or canned 1 cup cracker crumbs 
tomato pulp 2 tablespoons melted fat 

1 cup cooked macaroni Salt and pepper 

2 cups mutton cut in cubes 

Arrange the macaroni, mutton, and tomato sauce in layers, sprinkle 
each layer with salt and pepper, and cover the top with the cracker 
crumbs which have been mixed with the fat ; bake in a moderate oven 
until the crumbs are brown. 

SCRAMBLED MUTTON. 

2 cups cold mutton, chopped 1 tablespoon of drippings 

2 tablespoons hot w r ater 3 eggs 

Pepper and salt. 

85 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

* Add the meat to the hot water and drippings. When the meat is 
hot, break in the eggs and stir constantly until the eggs begin to stiffen. 
Season with pepper and salt. 

CURRY OF MUTTON. 

1 pint of finely chopped mutton y 2 cup of rice 

1 tablespoon of drippings 1 tablespoon curry-powder 

1 tablespoon of Hour 2 quarts boiling water 

Salt to taste 

Wash the rice and put it in the boiling water ; let it boil thirty-five 
minutes. Drain in a colander. Now put the drippings in a frying-pan ; 
when melted, add the flour and stir until smooth ; add a half-pint of 
boiling water; let boil up once, then add meat, curry ind salt. Stir ten 
minutes. Now heap it in the center of a meat dish, and put the rice 
around, in a border. Brush all over with beaten egg, and place in the 
oven a few minutes to brown 

HASHED MUTTON. Cook two tablespoons drippings with one 
tablespoon finely chopped onion, five minutes. Add two tablespoons 
flour, and pour on gradually, one cup stock. Add one cup cold chopped, 
cooked mutton, one-half cup cold boiled potatoes, cut in dice, and one 
tomato, skinned and cut in small pieces or a little canned tomato pulp. 
Season with salt, pepper, and celery salt ; cover and cook in double 
boiler for ten minutes. 

MUTTON OR LAMB CROQUETTES. 

2 cups finely chopped meat 1 cup cooked rice 

1 tablespoon chopped capers 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 cup white saut2 Salt and pepper 

Mix all together and set away to get cold. When ready to form, 
take up by full tablespoonfuls and shape into cylinders. Roll gently in 
finely sifted white bread crumbs, then in egg (slightly beaten with one 
tablespoon of cold water), being careful that every part of the cro- 
quette is covered with egg and then again in crumbs. Fry lightly in 
smoking hot deep fat. 

ORIENTAL STEW. Simmer gently together 

2 cups cold lamb or mutton, cut 1 chopped onion 

in cubes 2 small cold potatoes sliced 

1 cup of water 1 cup of cooked peas 01 cooked 

2 tablespoons of butter or drip- string beans chopped 
pings y?. cup rice 

Season with salt, pepper and 'a very little curry powder, if liked. 
While stew is heating boil one-half cup of rice. When tender, put into 
hot vegetable dish hollow out the center and fill with the stew. Serve 
at once. 

LAMB (TURKISH STYLE). Brown a small onion and one-third 
of a cup of rice in butter ur drippings. Add one cup of stewed tomatoes 
or canned tomato palp, one cup of lamb or mutton cut in squares, four 

86 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

tablespoons of minced carrot, one teaspoon of horseradish, salt and 
pepper to taste. Make quite moist with gravy or hot water. Cover 
closely and simmer until the rice is soft and the water absorbed. Serve 
on hot platter. 

MINCED LAMB. Chop remnants of cold roast lamb ; there should 
be one cup. Put two tablespoons drippings in hot saucepan, add lamb, 
sprinkle with salt, pepper and celery salt, and dredge thoroughly with 
flour; then add enough stock or water to moisten. Serve on small slices 
of toast. 

ROAST LAMB OR BEEF REHEATED. In warming up a leg 
of lamb or standing rib roast of beef, heap up the cavity left after carving 
with mashed potato. Brush over with melted drippings and brown in 
oven. 

VEAL CROQUETTES. Cut one pint cooked veal in small pieces; 
add one tablespoon salt, one-quarter teaspoon pepper, one tablespoon 
lemon juice. Melt three tablespoons fat; add two tablespoons finely 
minced onion, three tablespoons flour, and three-fourths cup milk or veal 
stock. Boil five minutes. Add two eggs well beaten. Stir constantly 
until thick. Mix with veal mixture and cool. Shape, allowing a round- 
ing tablespoonful for each croquette. Dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, 
and fry in smoking hot deep fat. Serve with or without White Sauce. 

HASH BALLS. Chop cold cooked, corned beef from which the 
skin, gristle, and most of the fat have been removed. Add an equal 
quantity of cold boiled potatoes, chopped and seasoned with salt, pepper 
and onion juice. Moisten with milk, make into small flat cakes, and 
fry in hot fat. Rice can be used in place of potatoes. Brown on one side, 
turn and brown other side. 

WARMED-OVER BAKED BEANS. Put into a hot frying-pan 
some of the pork cooked with the beans. When the fat has melted and 
is hot, pour in the beans, cover and set pan back on stove, when beans 
will cook slowly and brown underneath. Fold over like an omelet ; turn 
out on a hot platter and serve with tomato sauce. 

CROQUETTES OF ODDS AND ENDS. These are made of any 
scraps or bits of food left from one or more meals. Any left-over food 
should be well chopped and creamed, mixed with one raw egg, a little 
flour and butter or drippings, and boiling water, then made into cakes 
and fried in smoking hot deep fat. 

LEFT-OVER POULTRY RECIPES 

Left-over chicken or turkey makes excellent hash, scalloped dishes, 
croquettes, ^cream dishes, and salads. 

The carcass of a chicken or a turkey makes a splendid soup. 

Stuffing left from chicken or turkey may be sliced thin, browned in 
the oven, and served on toast. 

87 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

CREAMED CHICKEN HASH ON TOAST. This is one of the 
tastiest of all the warmed-over chicken dishes. Chop the chicken fine, 
and to each pint allow one tablespoonful of butter or drippings, one of 
flour and a half pint of milk. Rub the butter or drippings and flour 
together, add the milk, stir over the fire until boiling; season the meat 
with a teaspoon of salt and a dash of pepper, add to the milk sauce, and 
cook in double boiler for fifteen minutes. Heap this on squares of nicely 
toasted bread and serve at once. 

MINCED CHICKEN WITH GREEN PEPPERS. Boil two green 
peppers ten minutes, remove seeds, and cut in small strips ; mix with two 
cups cooked fowl, cut in dice. Melt three tablespoons dripping, add three 
tablespoons flour, and pour on gradually one and one-third cups chicken 
stock. Add chicken and peppers. Season with salt and pepper, and serve 
on pieces of toast. 

CREAMED CHICKEN AND PEAS. Melt two tablespoons butter 
or drippings, add three tablespoons flour, mixed with one-fourth teaspoon 
salt and one-eighth teaspoon pepper. Pour on gradually one and three- 
fourths cups milk. When sauce thickens, add one and one-half cups 
cold boiled fowl, cut in dice, and two-thirds cup left-over peas. Cook 
for about two minutes. 

CHICKEN WITH TOMATOES. Cook four tablespoons drippings 
with one-quarter of a small onion, finely chopped, five minutes. Add five 
tablespoons flour, and stir until slightly browned. Pour on, gradually, 
three-fourths cup each chicken stock and stewed and strained tomatoes 
or canned tomato pulp. Add one teaspoon lemon juice, one-half teaspoon 
salt, and one-eighth teaspoon paprika. Add one and one-half cups cold 
boiled fowl, cut in cubes. Cook for about two minutes. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. Make a white sauce. Chop chicken 
fine and season with salt, pepper, and a few drops of onion juice. Put 
into hot sauce all the seasoned chicken it will take up, about two cups of 
chicken to one of sauce. Cool. Shape into croquettes ; roll in bread 
crumbs, then in egg (which has been slightly beaten together with one 
tablespoon of cold water), then in crumbs again. Fry in smoking hot 
deep fat, and serve with white sauce. Veal or fresh pork may be used in 
same way. 

CHICKEN CUSTARD. When boiling a fowl for salad or other pur- 
poses, take a pint of the broth. Season as needed with salt and a little 
pepper. Heat and pour very slowly over two eggs that have been slightly 
beaten. Cook in a double boiler until the mixture thickens. Pour into 
small cups that have been rinsed with cold water, and set away to chill. 
This makes a good relish for invalids. 

SCALLOP OF CHICKEN OR TURKEY WITH CELERY. Cook 
one cup of celery, cut in inch pieces, in boiling slightly salted water until 
tender. Save the water to make sauce. Slice thin two cups of cold 
chicken, discarding all skin; season with salt and pepper, and moisten 
with a little left-over gravy. Melt two tablespoons of butter or drip- 

88 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

pings, stir in two tablespoons of flour, and add slowly one cup of celery 
water, one-half cup of milk, one-quarter teaspoon of salt, and a little 
pepper. When thickened and smooth, stir in the cooked celery. Put a 
few crumbs in a baking-dish and arrange the chicken and sauce in alter- 
nate layers. Cover with crumbs. Brown in a hot oven. 

CHICKEN OR TURKEY HASH. 

\ l / 2 cups cold chopped % cup boiled potato, cut in small 

chicken pieces, or J4 cup rice 

/2 to 2 /z cup chicken gravy 

Mix together, season highly, and moisten with the chicken gravy. 
Grease a baking-dish ; put in the mixture, covering the top with crumbs. 
Bake for about fifteen minutes in a hot oven. 

TURKEY WARMED OVER. Pieces of cold turkey or chicken 
may be warmed up with a little dripping in a frying-pan. Place it on a 
warm platter, surround it with pieces of small thick slices of bread, first 
dipping them in hot salted water ; then place the platter in a warm oven 
with the door open. Have ready the 'following gravy to pour over all : 
Into the frying-pan put one or two cups of milk, and any gravy that 
may be left over. Bring it to a boil ; then add sufficient flour, wet in a 
little cold milk or water, to make it the consistency of cream. Season 
with salt, pepper, and add a little of the dark meat chopped fine. Let 
the sauce cook a few moments ; then pour over the turkey. 

LEFT-OVER FISH RECIPES 

Any left-over fish can be used for creamed dishes, croquettes, fish 
pudding and scalloped dishes. See pages 45, 46, 47. 

LEFT-OVER VEGETABLE RECIPES 

Any left-over vegetables may be used for flavoring soup ; also for 
making creamed soups, scalloped dishes, and hash. 

A number of vegetables may be mixed together and used for a salad. 

Peas, tomatoes, or beans may be put in an omelette. 

Vegetables are not hurt by reheating. 

The coarse stalks and roots of celery make a good vegetable dish 
when cut in pieces and boiled and served with a cream sauce. They also 
make a good cream of celery soup. 

The leaves of celery are valuable in the soup for flavoring, Any 
left-over celery leaves can be dried out in a lukewarm oven, put into a 
glass jar, and kept for flavoring soups, sauces, etc. 

Any Jeft-over parsley can be dried out in the same manner and used 
for the same purpose. 

Limp lettuce leaves may be shredded with a scissors and used in any 
kind of salad. 

89 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

* 

STUFFED POTATOES. Raked potatoes that are left over must 
be made into stuffed potatoes before they are heavy and cold. At the 
close of the meal at which they were first served, cut the potatoes directly 
into halves, scoop out the inside portion, put it through an ordinary 
vegetable press, or mash it fine ; add a little butter, salt, pepper and suf- 
ficient milk to make a light mixture ; stand this over hot water and beat 
until light and smooth. Put it back int the shells, and stand them 
aside in a cold place. When ready to serve, brush the top with beaten 
egg and run them into a quick oven until hot and golden brown. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. See page 59. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. Cold mashed potatoes may be made 
into croquettes by adding to each pint four tablespoons of heated milk, 
the yolks of two eggs, a tablespoon of chopped parsley, a teaspoon of 
grated onion, a quarter of a teaspoon of pepper; stir over the fire until 
the mixture is thoroughly heated ; form into cylinder-shaped croquettes, 
dip in egg and rolled bread crumbs and fry in smoking hot deep fat. 

VEGETABLE BROWNED HASH. See page 66. 

CURRIED VEGETABLES. Have previously prepared one cup 
boiled potato, cut in dice, one cup boiled carrots, cut in dice, one-half 
cup boiled turnips, cut in dice, and one-half cup left-over peas. Cook 
two slices onion in three tablespoons drippings five minutes. Remove 
onion, and add three tablespoons flour, one teaspoon curry-powder, one 
teaspoon salt, one-fourth teaspoon celery salt, one-fourth teaspoon pep- 
per, and one and one-half cups milk. Stir until smooth, then reheat 
vegetables in sauce. 

LEFT-OVER TOMATOES. A half cup of stewed tomatoes or 
canned tomato pulp may be used with stock for brown tomato sauce, 
or for making a small dish of scalloped tomatoes, helping out at lunch 
when perhaps the family is less in number. The Italians boil down this 
half cup of tomatoes until it has the" consistency of dough ; then press 
through a sieve, add a little salt, pack down into a jelly tumbler and 
stand in the refrigerator to use as flavoring. A tablespoonful in a soup, 
or in an ordinary sauce, or mixed with the water for baked beans, or 
added to the stock sauce for spaghetti or macaroni, adds greatly to the 
flavor as well as appearance. 

TOMATO PASTE. When tomatoes are very plentiful and the 
supply is greater than the immediate need, it is a good plan to make a 
paste, which will keep for some time in a cool place. Wash and scald 
tomatoes. Strain through a fine sieve, and boil until thick. Put in glass 
jars. This will be found very useful in flavoring soups and sauces. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. See page 65. 

SPINACH WITH BAKED EGGS. Form any cold, well-sea- 
soned spinach into a neat border on buttered toast. A full tablespoon- 
ful will answer for each piece of toast. Break an egg in the center of 
each mound. Season, sprinkle very lightly with buttered crumbs. Bake 
in the oven until the eggs -are "set." 

'90 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

CARROT CROQUETTES. 

1 cup cooked carrots 1 cup white sauce 

1 cup cooked peas 1 egg 

Salt and pepper 

Press carrots and peas through a sieve. Add seasoning, unbeaten 
egg, white sauce; set away to chill. Form into croquettes, roll in 
crumbs and egg, and fry in smoking hot deep fat. 

BEETS PRINCESS. 

1 tablespoon butter y 2 cup water 

2 tablespoons vinegar 

Combine these in the order given and bring to a boil. Then add 
one teaspoon corn-starch moistened with cold water. Cook until clear. 
This makes a transparent sauce for warmed-over beets. 

CREAMED BEETS. Any left-over beets that have been served 
with butter and no vinegar may be creamed. Chop them coarse, and 
to each cup of beets allow one cup of white sauce. 

PARSNIP CAKES. Use left-over boiled buttered parsnips for 
making these cakes. Mash, and season with salt and pepper, make into 
flat, round cakes, dip in flour, and fry in hot melted drippings or butter. 

CELERY TOAST. Take the outer and less tender stalks of 
celery that are often thrown away, cut them into one-half-inch pieces 
and cook in slightly salted water until tender. Drain and use one-half 
cup of this water and one-half cup of milk to make a white sauce. Add 
the celery to the sauce and pour over slices of nicely browned and but- 
tered toast. Serve very hot. 

CREAMED SOUPS FROM LEFT-OVER VEGETABLES. 

See page 19. 

LEFT-OVER EGG RECIPES 

Save your egg shells and use them to clear soups, coffee and jelly. 

Dry out the egg shells ; then crush them and keep them in a cov- 
ered glass jar until ready to be used. 

Any left-over poached or soft-cooked eggs may be returned to the 
hot water and cooked until hard. They can then be chopped and used 
with left-over meat or fish dishes. 

Any left-over fried eggs, pieces of omelet or scrambled eggs will 
improve a meat hash. 

When only the yoke of the egg is used, the white can be kept in a 
cup or glass, covered with a damp cloth, fastened with an elastic band ; 
or, if only the white is used, the yolk can be kept in the same way. The 
whites of eggs may be used for apple float and for meringue for pud- 
dings or pies. The yolks of eggs may be used for scrambled eggs, 
custard, and omelet. 

91 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

EGG CROQUETTES. Put five hard-boiled eggs through a vege- 
table press, or chopper. Put one tablespoon of butter or butter sub- 
stitute and two of flour into a saucepan, add a half pint of milk, stir until 
boiling, add a half cup of stale, unbrowned bread crumbs, a teaspoon of 
salt, a tablespoon of chopped parsley, a dash of pepper and a half tea- 
spoon of onion juice ; add the eggs, mix and turn out to cool. When cold 
form into cutlets, dip in egg and then in bread crumbs and fry in smok- 
ing hot deep fat. Serve with plain cream sauce. These with peas make 
an exceedingly nice dish. 

COLD BACON AND EGGS. An economical way of using bacon 
and eggs that have been left from a previous meal is to put them in a 
wooden bowl and chop them quite fine, adding a little mashed or cold 
chopped potato, and a little bacon, if any is left. Mix and mould into 
little balls, roll in raw egg and cracker or bread crumbs, and fry in a 
frying-pan; fry a light brown on both sides. Serve hot. This makes 
a very appetizing dish. 

FLOATING ISLAND (using up whites of eggs). Beat up whites 
of eggs until stiff; gradually beat in a very little powdered sugar and 
drop large spoonfuls in hot milk in frying-pan. Dip milk over egg, that 
it may cook slightly. Take up in a skimmer and drain. Serve on soft 
custard with a bit of jelly on top of each spoonful. 

APPLE FLOAT. To each cup of left-over apple sauce add the 
well-beaten white of one egg. The whites must be beaten until per- 
fectly stiff and dry. Then whip apple sauce and egg together with an 
egg-whisk until thoroughly mixed. Serve ice cold. 

MERINGUE. One-half tablespoon powdered sugar to each white 
of egg. Beat the whites till frothy, add the powdered sugar gradually 
and continue beating. When stiff enough to hold its shape, heap the 
meringue over the pudding. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS (using up yolks of eggs). 

3 yolks 1 large tablespoon bacon (cut in 

Dash cayenne bits) 

Dried bread or toast J/ cup milk 

J/2 tablespoon butter 

Prepare crisp dry toast, or use oven-dried slices of bread if on hand. 
Beat eggs slightly, add milk arid bacon. Melt butter in hot omelet pan; 
add the egg mixture, and cook lightly, holding pan up from intense 
heat. Have hot milk ready in saucepan, dip slices of bread or toast 
quickly in it, put on hot platter, and pour scrambled eggs over all. 

SOFT CUSTARD (using up yolks of eggs). 
1 pint milk 3 tablespoons sugar 

3 yolks of eggs J /> teaspoon vanilla or 

Few grains salt A piece of lemon rind 

Scald milk with lemon rind, beat yolks, sugar and salt together. 
Combine by pouring hot milk gradually on yolks and sugar, stirring 
meanwhile. Strain mixture into double boiler and cook until thickened 

92 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

slightly. Remove at once from double boiler and cool. Tf vanilla 
flavoring is preferred, add when custard is cold, and omit the lemon 
rind. 

LEFTOVER CEREAL RECIPES 

Cereals are improved by long cooking. Therefore, oatmeal, hom- 
iny, and other cereals which are left over can be added next day to the 
fresh-cooked cereal. 

Left-over cereal can be moulded cold with fruit or it can be used 
in making pancakes, muffins and puddings, and also to make gruels 
for invalids. 

Cold hominy and mush may be cut into squares and fried so that 
a crisp crust is formed on both sides. This makes an excellent vege- 
table or breakfast dish. 

Cold hominy or farina may be rolled into balls and fried and used 
in the same way. 

Cold rice may be added to soup, made into croquettes, used in a 
scalloped dish, or it may be mixed with minced meat and egg and fried 
like an omelet. 

Cold boiled rice left over may be mixed with a small quan- 
tity of meat, and used for stuffing tomatoes or eggplant or it may 
be reheated or made into pudding, or added to the muffins for lunch, 
or added to the corn-bread. 

A cup of left-over oatmeal or cracked wheat or wheatlet may also 
be added to the muffins or ordinary yeast or corn-breads. These little 
additions increase the food value, make the mixture lighter, and save 
waste. 

A few spoons of left-over rice, hominy, macaroni, or potato mixed 
with a little chopped meat or fish and a few spoonfuls of gravy or white 
sauce to moisten it may be put in a baking-dish, covered with bread 
crumbs, and baked in the oven. 

RICE MUFFINS. See page 28. 

FARINA GEMS. 

2 eggs 1 cup of flour 

1 cup of milk 4 level teaspoons of baking- 

1 cup cold boiled farina powder 

Y2 teaspoon of salt 

Separate the eggs, add the milk and stir this, gradually, into the 
cold farina. When smooth add the salt, baking-powder and flour, 
mixed. Beat, and then add the well-beaten whites of eggs. Bake in 
gem pans in a quick oven a half hour. 

TO FRESHEN UP RICE OR BREAD PUDDINGS. Remove 
crust from yesterday's pudding and turn the pudding into smaller dish. 
Add hot milk and (to a bread-pudding) fresh crumbs for top, dotted 

93 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

over with butter. Bake again. Rice pudding may be reheated with 
hot milk, or if to be served cold, covered with a meringue flavored with 
lemon juice and browned. 

RICE CROQUETTES. To make cold boiled rice into croquettes, 
the rice must be reheated in a double boiler with }/ 2 cup of milk and the 
yolk of an egg to each cup ; you may season with sugar and lemon or 
salt and pepper, and serve as a vegetable. Form into cylinder-shaped 
croquettes ; dip in egg and bread crumbs, and fry in smoking hot deep 
fat. 

SIMPLE RICE PUDDING. See page 75. 

PLAIN FARINA PUDDING. 

2 cups milk 1 cup left-over farina or cream 

\y 2 cups of sugar of wheat 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon of vanilla 

Put the milk in a double boiler, add the sugar and the cold left-over 
farina. Stir until thoroughly hot, then add the eggs, well beaten, and 
the vanilla. Turn into a baking-dish and put in the oven until brown. 
Serve cold, with milk or cream. 

APPLE FARINA PUDDING. Pour the left-over breakfast por- 
ridge into a square mould and stand it aside. At luncheon or dinner 
time cut this into thin slices, cover the bottom of a baking-dish with 
these slices, and cover these with sliced apples, and so continue until 
you have the ingredients used, having the last layer apples. Beat an 
egg, without separating, until light, add a half cup of milk and a half 
teaspoon of salt, then stir in a half cup of flour. When smooth pour 
this over the apples and bake in a quick oven a half hour. Serve with 
milk or with hard sauce. 

OATMEAL OR HOMINY MUFFINS. 

1 cup cooked oatmeal or cooked 4 teaspoons baking-powder 
hominy y> teaspoon salt 

\y 2 cups flour y 2 cup of milk 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 egg 

2 tablespoons melted butter or drippings 

Mix and sift flour, sugar, salt and baking-powder; add one-half of 
the milk, the egg well beaten, the remainder of the milk mixed with 
oatmeal or hominy, and beat thoroughly; then add butter or drippings. 
Bake in greased muffin-rings placed in greased pan or bake in greased 
gem pans. 

CORN-MEAL MUFFINS. See page 72. 
CEREAL MOLDED WITH FRUIT. See page 73. 
CEREAL PANCAKES. See page 73. 

SHREDDED WHEAT GRUEL. 

2 shredded wheat biscuits 1 quart boiling water 

2 teaspoons salt 2 cups milk 

94 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

Cook biscuit, salt and water together for 20 minutes, stirring occa- 
sionally. Then add the milk and strain. 

OATMEAL GRUEL. See page 72. 

STALE-BREAD RECIPES 

Small bits of stale bread may be slowly dried in the oven until crisp 
and brittle, then ground in a meat chopper or rolled. These bread 
crumbs should be kept in a covered glass jar and may be used for fry- 
ing croquettes, etc. 

Larger pieces of stale bread may be eaten with soup in place of 
crackers, or used to make croutons for soup (croutons are little squares 
of bread fried in fat. They are usually served with pea, bean and 
creamed soups). 

Small pieces and broken slices of stale bread may be used for stuff- 
ing, for griddle cakes, bread omelet and puddings. 

BREAD MUFFINS. Cover a quart of bits of bread that have 
been broken apart, with one pint of milk ; soak for fifteen minutes, then 
with a spoon beat until you have a smooth paste ; add the yolks of three 
eggs, a tablespoon of melted drippings and one cup of flour that has 
been sifted with a heaping teaspoon of baking-powder. Mix in carefully 
the well-beaten whites of the eggs, and bake in muffin-pans in a quick 
oven about twenty minutes. 

BREAD CROQUETTES. Rub sufficient stale bread to make one 
quart of crumbs ; add four tablespoons of sugar, a half cup of cleaned 
currants, or any fruit that you have left over, and a grating of nutmeg; 
sprinkle a teaspoon of vanilla over this and add sufficient beaten eggs 
(about three) to moisten the crumbs. Form into small cylinder-shaped 
croquettes, dip in egg and roll in bread crumbs and fry in smoking hot 
deep fat. Serve hot with sugar syrup. 

BREAD OMELET. See page 18. 

BREAD CEREAL. Dry bread in the oven until crisp and brown. 
Roll on board, or put through meat grinder, having crumbs coarse. 
Serve warm as a breakfast food with milk or cream. 

BREAD STICKS. Remove crusts from any slices of stale bread 
and cut in strips about five inches long and one-half inch wide. Fry in 
smoking hot deep fat. These can be served with cheese instead of 
crackers. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

3 eggs 2 tablespoons butter 

2 cups bread crumbs 1 quart milk 

J/2 teaspoon cinnamon Y 2 teaspoon salt 

l /2 cup raisins Little nutmeg 

Scald milk. Add butter and bread crumbs. Beat eggs light and 

95 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

add with salt and spice to bread mixture. Bake in moderate oven 
about an hour. 

BROWN BETTY. Place alternate layers of. chopped apples and 
stale bread crumbs in buttered baking-dish, having crumbs on bottom. 
Add cinnamon and sugar to each layer of apples, using more sugar if 
apples are sour. The top layer should be buttered bread crumbs. Bake 
in moderate oven until crumbs are brown. 

BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES (with sour milk). Use equal quan- 
tities of sour milk and small broken pieces of bread. Mix and let stand, 
covered, overnight. When ready to use, put through colander. For 
each pint of mixture use one egg, one teaspoon of soda, one teaspoon 
of sugar, y teaspoon salt and about ft of a cup of sifted flour. It is 
always well to bake a small cake first, that any lack in ingredients may 
be remedied at once. An extra yolk or small amount of uncooked egg 
may be added if at hand. Bake on hot griddle. 

FRIED BREAD. To an egg, well beaten, add one cup of milk, or a 
little water. Dip pieces of stale bread in this and then fry them in but- 
ter or drippings. 

STALE CAKE 

STALE CAKE WITH CUSTARD. Moisten with lemon juice 
enough stale cake to cover the bottom of a glass dish holding a quart. 
Make a soft custard by scalding two cups of milk and pouring it slowly 
upon two beaten egg yolks, mixed with three tablespoons of sugar, one 
teaspoon of butter, and a little salt. Cook in a double boiler until thick- 
ened. Strain and when partly cool add one-half teaspoon of vanilla, and 
pour over the cake. When ready to serve, beat the whites to a stiff froth, 
adding one tablespoon of sugar and a little lemon juice while beating. 
Drop lightly, by spoonfuls, on top of the custard and put a few bits of 
jelly on the meringue. 

TRIFLE. Cut stale cake into slices and spread preserves between 
them. Lay in a deep dish and spread over with meringue or whipped 
cream. 

CHEESE 

All the little dried pieces of cheese should be grated and put in a 
covered glass jar. These cheese crumbs are excellent for many made-over 
dishes and are particularly good with starchy foods, such as potatoes, 
macaroni, etc. 

Very tasty crackers can be made by spreading this grated cheese on 
crackers, seasoning them, and then putting them in the oven for a few 
minutes, 

96 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

SOUR MILK OR CREAM 

No sour milk or cream should be wasted. Put it into an earthen 
or glass jar, little by little, until you have half a cup or a cupful. As 
soon as it thickens use it for cottage cheese, griddle cakes, biscuits, corn- 
bread or gingerbread. 

Sour cream may also be used for filling for cake. 

COTTAGE CHEESE. Place, a panful of milk which has soured 
enough to become thick, or clabbered, over a pan of hot water. Let it 
heat slowly until the whey has separated from the curd ; do not let it boil, 
or the curd will become tough; then strain it through a cloth and press 
out all the whey; stir into the curd enough butter, cream, and salt to 
make it a little moist and of good flavor. Work it well with a spoon 
until it becomes fine grained and smooth, then mold it into balls of any 
size desired. 

SOUR MILK PANCAKES. 

1 cup thick sour milk 24 cup flour 

l / 2 cup cooked cereal 1 teaspoon soda 

1 egg % teaspoon salt 

Beat sour milk, cereal and egg well together. Sift flour and salt and 
add them. When ready to bake the cakes, add the soda and beat the 
batter vigorously. It should look like thick cream. If too thin, add a 
little more flour; if too thick, add more sour milk or a little water. 

EMERGENCY BISCUITS. 

2 cups flour 1 cup thick sour milk 
1 tablespoon butter or any fat 1 teaspoon salt 



teaspoon soda 



Sift flour, salt and soda well together. Rub in the butter or fat with 
a spoon. Add the milk and stir lightly. The dough should be soft. Drop 
by spoonfuls into greased muffin-tins and bake in a hot oven about 
twenty minutes. 

SOUR CREAM GINGERBREAD. 

2 tablespoons melted butter or y 2 cupful sour milk 

butter substitute 1 teaspoon baking-soda 

J4 cupful molasses 2 cupfuls flour 

1 egg 1 tablespoon ginger 

Mix molasses, sour milk and beaten egg well together and add the 
ginger, salt and flour. Dissolve the soda in a very little hot water and 
add it. Beat in the melted butter or butter substitute at the last. Bake 
in a shallow pan or muffin tins in a moderate oven about 25 minutes. 

SOUR CREAM FILLING FOR CAKES. Sweeten and chill a 
cup of sour cream. Whip it, keeping it cold while doing so. When 
stiff add a cup of chopped nuts. If cream does not become stiff, add one 
teaspoon cf melted gelatine at the last and set on ice. This makes an 
excellent filling for layer cakes. 

97 



LEFT-OVER RECIPES 

% 

FRUIT 

Any fresh fruit that has become soft should be cooked at once with 
a little sugar added, to make a sauce, or it can be made into jelly. 

Any left-over canned fruit may be rubbed through a sieve and used 
for a sauce. It may be put into ice cream or molded into a corn-starch 
or rice mixture. 

Apple parings and cores should be stewed to a pulp and then 
strained. This will make a jelly, which, spread on apple tart, will greatly 
improve it. It can also be used for flavoring tapioca pudding. 

Orange peel and lemon peel may be used for flavoring sauces and 
stewed fruits. They can be dried and kept in a glass-covered jar until 
used. 

FRUIT SAUCE (made from fresh fruit that is slightly softened). 
Cook the fruit with a little sugar until the juice flows freely. Then beat 
some powdered sugar, the fruit juice and pieces of fruit together. Whip 
the white of an egg very light, and add to the beaten fruit and sugar, or 
add fruit gradually to the unbeaten egg white and beat for some minutes. 

APRICOT, PEAR OR PEACH SAUCE (from left-over canned 
fruit). Beat some powdered sugar, fruit juice and the pieces of left-over 
canned fruit together. Add fruit gradually to an unbeaten egg white 
and beat for some minutes ; or whip the white of egg very light and 
add to beaten fruit and sugar. Sauce made in the first way will last 
longer. 

CORN-STARCH PUDDING WITH FRUIT. 

1 pint of milk 1 well-beaten egg 

4 tablespoons corn-starch mixed % teaspoon salt 

with a little cold water */2 CU P chopped cooked peaches, 

*/2 cup sugar apricots or pears 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Scald milk; then stir in corn-starch mixed with a little cold water, 
and cook five minutes in double boiler. Place upper part of double boiler 
on fire, let corn-starch boil, return boiler to place, add sugar, egg and 
salt beaten together, and cook two minutes, stirring continually. Flavor 
with vanilla, add fruit, and pour into mold. Chill and serve with sugar 
and cream. An excellent way of using up small amounts of canned 
fruits. 



98 



SOAP 

TO MAKE WHITE HARD SOAP. Save every scrap of fat each 
day; fry out all that has accumulated, however small the quantity. This 
is done by placing the scraps in a frying-pan on the back of the range. 
If the heat is low, and the grease is not allowed to get hot enough to 
smoke or burn, there will be no odor from it. Turn the melted grease 
into lard pails and keep them covered. When six pounds of fat have 
been obtained, turn it into a dish-pan ; add a generous amount of hot 
water, and stand it on the range until the grease is entirely melted. Stir 
it well together; then stand it aside to cool. This is clarifying the 
grease. The clean grease will rise to the top, and when it has cooled can 
be taken off in a cake, and such impurities as have not settled in the 
water, can be scraped off the bottom of the cake of fat. 

Put the clean grease into the dish-pan and melt it. Put a can of 
P>abbit's lye in a pail ; add to it a quart of cold water, and stir it 
with a stick or wooden spoon until it is dissolved. It will get hot when 
the water is added; let it stand until it cools. Remove the melted grease 
from the fire, and pour in the lye slowly, stirring all the time. Add two 
tablespoons of ammonia. Stir the mixture constantly for twenty min- 
utes or half an hour, or until the soap begins to set. 

Let it stand until perfectly hard ; then cut it into square cakes. This 
makes a very good, white hard soap which will float on water. It is very 
little trouble to make, and will be found quite an economy in a household. 
Six pounds of grease make eight and a half pounds of soap. 



Save all pieces of soap that are too small to handle. Melt them in a 
little water over a slow fire and then put it into glass-covered jars. This 
makes a jelly-like substance which can be used for washing dishes, boil- 
ing clothes or any other purpose for which soap is used. 



99 



TIRELESS COOKER 

A fireless cooker is a box so made and lined that when food is heated 
over a fire for a short time and then placed in the box, the heat will be 
retained in the box and the food will continue to cook without the use 
of any additional fire or heat. 

The fireless cooker is particularly good for cooking the less tender 
cuts of meat or meat that requires long cooking. It can also be used 
for cooking soup, pot roast, beef stew, Irish stew, lamb stew, corned 
beef and cabbage, boiled ham, baked beans, chicken fricassee, vegetables 
such as turnips, parsnips, carrots and beets, dried vegetables such as 
peas, beans and lentils, dried fruits such as peaches, apples, apricots 
and prunes, cereals, and puddings. 

Most people do not cook cereals long enough. By using a fireless 
cooker you can prepare your cereal at night, cook it on the stove for 
about fifteen minutes, put it in the fireless cooker, and when you get up 
in the morning you will find it all cooked and ready to be eaten. In this 
way you save both time and fuel. 

Lots of women who have to be away from their homes all day pre- 
pare the family dinner in the morning, put it in the fireless cooker, and 
find it cooked and ready to be eaten on their return at night. This is a 
great help to the woman who has to work hard all day and who is too 
tired to prepare and cook a dinner when she gets home at night. 

There are various makes of fireless cookers that can be bought in 
stores where household furnishings are sold. They range in price from 
$5 to $22, according to the size and t.iake of the cooker. 

It is not necessary, however, for you to buy a fireless cooker. You 
can easily make one at home. 

TRY IT 

YOU WILL FIND IT WILL SAVE NOT ONLY YOUR TIME 
BUT MANY A DOLLAR ON YOUR COAL AND GAS BILLS. 



DIRECTIONS for FIRELESS COOKER No. 1 (Single Cooker) 

MATERIALS NEEDED 

Galvanized iron can. No. 3, with cover, about $0.78 

Sawdust, about 0.10 

Two yards denim, about 0.45 

Covered agate pail (to be used as cooking-pail), about 0.20 



Total $1.53 

(It is net necessary to use denim. You can use an old tablecloth, 

muslin, canton flannel or any old wool material you happen to have on 

hand.) 

METHOD Place loose sawdust in the bottom of the can to a 

depth of about 3 inches. Fold the two yards of den>im or other material 

100 



FIRELESS COOKER' 

lengthwise and make a long bag. This bag, when empty, should be 
about two inches deeper than the cooking-pail. Fill the bag with saw- 
dust ; lay the bag flat on the table and spread the sawdust evenly. When 
filled with sawdust the bag should be a little deeper than the cooking- 
pail. Then roll the bag around the cooking-pail so that a smooth, firm 
nest is formed when the bag is placed upright in the can on top of the 
sawdust. From the remaining denim or other material make a round 
flat bag (material will have to be. pieced for this). Fill the bag with 
sawdust and use it on top of the cooking-pail. The bags must be made 
and fitted imo the can in such a way that there will be no open space 
whatever between the sides of the cooking-pail and the can, or between 
the top of the cooking-pail and the cover of the can, through which heat 
can escape. 

DIRECTIONS for FIRELESS COOKER No. 2 (Double Cooker) 

MATERIALS NEEDED Three wooden boxes (one long box and 
two square boxes ; the long box must be large enough to hold the other 
two and still leave at least two inches of space between all the boxes). 
Your grocer will doubtless be glad to let you have the boxes without 
charge or at a very small cost. 

Sheet asbestos, 5% yards, one yard wide, at about 20c. per yard. . $1.05 

Two covered agate pails (to be used as cooking pails), about 0.40 

Denim, 1 yard, about 0.22 

Total ' 1.67 

(Any old muslin, canton flannel or wool goods that you happen to 
have on hand may be used in place of denim.) 

METHOD First of all line the bottoms and sides of all three boxes 
with the sheet asbestos. Then in the bottom of the long box lay news- 
papers flat to a depth of about one-half an inch. Then put two ir/ches 
of. sawdust on top of this layer of newspapers. Then place the two 
square boxes inside the long one, leaving at least two inches of space 
between the two square boxes. Fill all the spaces between all the boxes 
with saw r dust. Then tack a strip of denim or other material from the 
edges of the square boxes to the outside edge of the long box; also 
across the space betw r een the two square boxes, so that the strip of denim 
will cover all the spaces that are filled with sawdust. 

The outside box must have a wooden lid. Line the lid with the 
sheet asbestos to within a half inch of the edge of the lid. Then put a 
layer of sawdust one inch deep on top of the asbestos. Then tack a piece 
of denim or other material over the sawdust, still leaving the edge free 
and clear so that the cover will fit down tightly. Or the lid may be lined 
with asbestos and a pillow made of denim or other material and filled 
with sawdust that will fit tightly down into the top of the box. 

NOTE THESE FIRELESS COOKERS ARE NOT AN EX- 
PERIMENT. THEY HAVE BEEN TESTED AND FOUND TO 
BE MOST PRACTICAL AND USEFUL. 

101 



- GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR COOKING WITH 
A FIRELESS COOKER 

SOUPS should be cooked on the stove in the cooking-pail for about 
thirty minutes, then put in the fireless cooker and left for about 12 hours. 
Reheat before serving. 

(If the soup were cooked on a coal or gas stove until done you would 
have to use your fire 3 or 4 hours. By using the fireless cooker you save 
from 2y 2 to Z l / 2 hours of coal or gas.) 

POT ROAST Get a 3-pound piece of beef cut from the neck, shoul- 
der or cross cut. Wipe it oft with a damp cloth, season it, dredge it with 
flour, and then brown well on all sides in a hot greased frying-pan. Then 
put the meat in the cooking-pail, with an inverted saucer or something 
else under it to keep it from sticking. Add boiling water- about two- 
thirds of the way up the roast. Cover tightly and let simmer on the 
stove for 20 minutes. Then add */> cup each of diced carrots, turnips, 
potatoes and onions and 1 teaspoon of salt. Let it come to a boil and 
then place in fireless cooker and let it stay in for 7 or 8 hours. Then 
remove meat to a hot platter, put the vegetables around the meat, and 
make a gravy of 1 tablespoon of butter or drippings, 1 tablespoon of 
flour and 1 cup of the liquid strained from the roast. Season the gravy 
and serve with meat and vegetables. 

(It would take about 3 hours to cook this on your stove. By using 
the fireless cooker you save about 2}A hours of coal or gas.) 

BEEF STEW (For making stews use ends of ribs, neck, knuckle 
or hind shin.) Cut beef into small pieces; add one onion cut in small 
pieces. Put meat in cooking-pail with an inverted saucer or something 
else under it to keep it from sticking. Add enough cold water to cover 
meat. Bring to simmering point. Let it simmer 20 minutes. Then 
add halved or quartered potatoes, a few pieces of carrot and turnip, salt 
and pepper to taste. Let it come to a boil and then place the pail in the 
fireless cooker and leave for 7 or 8 hours. Before potatoes are added 
to the stew boil them for five minutes on the stove. 

(It would take about 3 hours to cook this on your stove. By using 
the fireless cooker you save 2jX hours of coal or gas.) 

MUTTON OR IRISH STEW Follow directions given for beef 
stew 7 , leaving it in fireless cooker for 5 or 6 hours. 

LAMB STEW 1^ Ibs. breast of lamb, 1 pint boiling- water, 4 
medium-sized potatoes quartered and parboiled, 1 sliced onion, 2 table- 
spoons rice, 1 cup strained tomatoes, salt and pepper. 

Brown the onions in a little fat in the cooking-pail ; then add the 
meat cut roughly into cube-shaped pieces ; sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
Cover with boiling water. Let it simmer on the stove for 20 minutes. 
Then add potatoes, rice and tomatoes. Let it come to a boil and then 
place in fireless cooker for 4 or 5 hours. (By using the fireless cooker 
7 ou save \y 2 hours of coal or gas.) 

CORNED BEEF AND CABBAGE Prepare in your usual way 
and cook the corned beef on the stove in the cooking-pail for about 30 

102 



FIRELESS COOKER RECIPES 

minutes. Then put the corned beef in fireless cooker and leave for about 
6 hours. Then add the cabbage and leave in fireless cooker for 2 hours 
more. 

(If cooked entirely on your stove corned beef would take about 3 
hours. By using the fireless cooker you save 2y 2 hours of coal or gas.) 

BOILED HAM Cook on the stove in the cooking-pail for about 
30 minutes. Then put in the fireless cooker and leave for 8 or 10 hours, 
or overnight. 

(By using the fireless cooker you save at least 3 hours of coal or 
gas.) 

BAKED BEANS 1 quart of white beans, 1 teaspoon of baking 
soda, y$ pound salt pork, 2 tablespoons of molasses, 1 teaspoon of mus- 
tard. 

Wash beans and then soak them in cold water for one hour. Then 
pour off the water and put beans into cooking-pail. Cover with cold 
water, add the soda and cook gently on the stove until beans are slightly 
softened. Pour off water; mix molasses and mustard with a pint of 
water and pour this over the beans, adding more water if the beans are 
not covered. Place the pork upon the beans, bring to boiling, and cover 
the pail. Then put in fireless cooker and leave for ten or twelve hours. 

(Baked beans would require 6 to 8 hours if baked in a gas or coal 
oven. By using the fireless cooker the coal or gas is only used for 30 
minutes, making a wonderful saving.) 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE Cut up chicken and roll each piece in 
flour; brown pieces in fat ; as each piece is browned, pack in cooking-pail. 
Make some gravy in pan in which browning is done. Pour gravy into 
the cooking-pail and add enough water to cover chicken. Season to taste 
with salt and pepper. Boil 20 minutes on stove ; then put in cooker for 
overnight. Reheat it when you want to use it. 

(By using the fireless cooker you save about 2 hours of coal and gas.) 

TURNIPS, PARSNIPS, CARROTS AND BEATS Prepare in 
your usual way and boil on the stove in the cooking-pail for not more 
than five minutes. Then put in the fireless cooker. Leave turnips, 
parsnips and carrots in fireless cooker for lj/j to 2 hours; beets 5 or 6 
hours. 

(By using the fireless cooker you save a great deal of coal or gas.) 

DRIED PEAS, BEANS AND LENTILS Prepare in your usual 
way and cook on the stove in the cooking-pail for ten minutes. Then 
put in the fireless cooker and leave for 8 to 10 hours. 

(By using the fireless cooker you save at least 3 hours of coal or gas.) 

DRIED FRUITS, SUCH AS PEACHES, APPLES, APRICOTS 
AND PRJJNES These require long slow cooking and little sugar. 
Dried prunes do not require any sugar at all, as the long slow cooking 
develops the natural sweetness in the fruit. 

Wash all dried fruit carefully. Put in cooking-pail and cover with 
cold water, using one pint of fruit to l l / 2 pints of water. Bring to the 

103 



FIRELESS COOKER RECIPES 

simmering point on the stove and simmer for about 15 minutes. Then 
place in fireless cooker and leave for 6 or 8 hours or overnight. 

(You save at least 3 hours of coal or gas by using the fireless cooker 
for these.) 

CEREALS Put in cooking-pail and cook on the stove for about 
15 minutes and then put in the fireless cooker and leave for 12 to 15 
hours or overnight. Cereals require long slow cooking, and by using 
a fireless cooker you save a great many hours of coal or gas. 

CREAMY RICE PUDDING 1 cup rice, 1 pint milk, 4 tablespoons 
sugar, ^ teaspoon salt, some nutmeg or cinnamon. 

Boil rice for about five minutes. Add milk without pouring off the 
water ; then add sugar and salt. Pour into a buttered pail, cover tightly, 
and place in cooking-pail half full of boiling water. Boil over fire for 
five minutes. Then put in fireless cooker and leave for about 6 to 8 
hours. When finished grate nutmeg over the top or sprinkle with cinna- 
mon, or a stick of cinnamon may be boiled with the rice. 

(You sa.ve more than \V 2 hours of coal or gas by using the fireless 
cooker.) 

(It is well to place an inverted saucer in the bottom of the pail of 
hot water so that the pudding will not get too hot while cooking on the 
stove.) 

STEAMED COSTARD 1 quart milk, 4 eggs, ]/ 2 teaspoon salt, V 2 
cup sugar, nutmeg. 

Scald the milk in a double boiler ; beat the eggs slightly and add the 
sugar and salt ; then gradually add the scalded milk. Pour into buttered 
pail, cover tightly, and place in cooking-pail half full of boiling water. 
Boil over fire for 5 minutes; then place in fireless cooker for 1% hours 
to 2 hours. When finished grate a little nutmeg over the top of the 
pudding. 

(It is well to place an inverted saucer in the bottom of the pail of 
hot water so that custard will not get too hot while cooking on the 
stove.) 

APPLES IN SYRUP Pare and core sour apples and then cut in 
half. Make a syrup of 1 cup sugar and 1 cup water. Cook over fire in 
cooking-pail until clear. Add apples and boil five minutes. Then put in 
fireless cooker for 4 or 5 hours. 

NOTE Bear in mind that all the food must first be cooked on the 
stove in the cooking-pail for the length of time given. Then the cooking- 
pail, with the food in it, must be taken directly from the stove and put 
into the cooker without delay. This is absolutely necessary in order 
to retain in the pail and in the food the heat that is needed to continue 
the cooking. 



104 



CANNING FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 

One secret of success in canning is cleanliness. For this reason, 
keep the room as free as possible from dust ; keep the table, your hands, 
and your clothes clean while you work; and wash all the utensils just 
before beginning work ; rinse them with boiling water, and let them dry 
without wiping. 

TO STERILIZE JARS: Put the jars in a pan or pail, cover with 
cold water, let it come to a boil and boil for ten minutes. This is an extra 
precaution, not necessary except when fruit is cooked before being put 
into jars. When it is done, covers and rings should be sterilized in a 
smaller vessel in the same way. 

TO TEST A JAR: Fill a jar with water, fasten on ring and cover, 
and invert. If it leaks, either the jar is imperfect or the rubber poor. 
Use no jar that cannot be made absolutely tight. 

WHEN BREAKAGE OF JARS OCCURS IT IS DUE TO SUCH 
CAUSES AS : 

1. Overpacking the jars. Corn, peas and lima beans swell or 
expand in canning. Do not fill the jars quite full of these 
products. 

2. Placing the cold jars in hot water or vice versa. As soon 
as the jars are filled with hot syrup or hot water, place them 
immediately in the boiler. 

3. Having the wire fastener of glass-top jars too tight, thus 
breaking the jars when the lever is forced down. 

4. Allowing a cold draft to strike the jars when they are 
removed from the boiler. 

THE RIGHT SORT OF FRUIT TO CAN: Can each 'fruit in its 
season when it is best and cheapest. It is best for canning just before 
it is quite ripe. The better the condition of the fruit the easier it is to 
sterilize. So use only fresh, clean, sound fruit, and see that no soft 
berries or spoiled bits get into the cans. 

TO COOK FRUIT IN JARS IN A CLOSED VESSEL THE 
FOLLOWING OUTFIT IS NECESSARY: A wash boiler, pail, or 
any vessel with a tight-fitting cover, large enough to hold several 
jars; a rack to fit the bottom of the boiler and keep the jars from 
bumping and breaking when the water boils (this may be a piece 
of heavy wire netting or it may be made at home of strips of wood) ; 
quart or pint glass jars (the jars with glass covers and metal springs 
are best); a new rubber ring for each jar (old rubber may not be 
air-tight); large bowl or enamelled pan for fruit; plated knife and 
fork; plated or enamelled spoon; quart measure ;" half-pint measure; 
scales; saucepan for syrup. Avoid iron and tinware in canning. 

CAN BOTH FRUIT AND VEGETABLES AS SOON AS YOU 
GET THEM HOME. 

105 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR CANNING 
FRUITS WITH SUGAR 

Pack fruit compactly in jars. It will pack better if put in a 
strainer or piece of cheese-cloth and lowered into boiling water for 
about one minute. This is called "blanching.'' Blanch fruit in small 
lots, that the water may not be cooled much. Press fruit gently 
down in jars with spoon or small wooden spatula. Fill jars with 
syrup. Release any air-bubbles by slipping knife or spatula down 
between fruit and jar. Put on rings and cover without fastening 
them down. Place jars on rack in boiler. Pour warm water in boiler, 
enough to come about half-way up the jars. Put cover on boiler. 
Bring water to a boil and boil gently as long as required. Remove 
boiler from the stove, fasten down covers, take jars out and let them 
cool. If, when jars are taken from the boiler, there is more than half 
an inch of space between fruit and cover, the contents of one jar may 
be used to fill the rest before the covers are fastened down. Put jars 
again in boiler and boil 5 minutes more. 

These directions apply to fruit bought in towns and cities. Less 
time is required for fruit freshly picked. Ten minutes for quart jars, 
five minutes for pint jar of freshly picked berries is sufficient. The 
shorter the time of cooking, the better the berries retain their flavor, 
shape and color. 

CANNING FRUITS WITH SUGAR 

Fruits can be classified into three distinct groups, or classes, such 
as soft fruits, sour berry fruits and hard fruits. 

1. SOFT FRUITS, SUCH AS STRAWBERRIES, BLACK- 
BERRIES, SWEET CHERRIES, BLUEBERRIES, PEACHES, 
APRICOTS, ETC. 

RECIPE FOR CANNING SOFT FRUITS Make a syrup in the 
proportion of 1 cup of sugar to 3 cups of water. Put on stove and 
bring to the boiling point. For a thin syrup, boil one minute. For a 
medium-thin syrup, boil until slightly sticky when cooled. The amount 
of syrup required will depend upon the quantity of fruit to be canned. 
Rinse the fruit by pouring water over it through a strainer. Cull, seed, 
stem, and remove skins if necessary. Pack immediately in glass jars. 
Add boiling hot syrup. Fill jars to overflowing. Place rubbers and tops 
in place. Partially tighten. Place jars in kettle and boil gently for 10 to 
20 minutes. Remove jars from kettle. Tighten covers. Invert to cool 

106 



CANNING FRUITS WITH SUGAR 

and test for leakage. Wrap glass jars in paper to prevent bleaching. 
Then store. 

2. SOUR BERRY FRUITS, SUCH AS CURRANTS, GOOSE- 
BERRIES, CRANBERRIES AND SOUR CHERRIES. 

RECIPE FOR CANNING SOUR BERRY FRUITS Stem, hull 
and clean. Dip quickly in hot water. Remove and dip quickly in cold 
water. Pack berries closely in jars. Add a boiling hot syrup made in 
the proportion of l l /> cups of sugar to 3 cups of water. Place rubbers 
and caps in place. Partially tighten. Place jars in kettle and boil 
gently for 10 to 20 minutes. Remove jars. Tighten covers and invert 
to cool and test for leakage. Wrap in paper and store. 

3. HARD FRUITS, SUCH AS APPLES, PEARS, QUINCES, 
ETC. 

RECIPE FOR CANNING HARD FRUIT Dip quickly in hot 
\vater for I*/? minutes, and then plunge quickly in cold water. Core, pit, 
or remove skins if necessary. Pack whole, quartered, or sliced as desired. 
Add a boiling hot syrup made in the proportion of 1 cup of sugar to 3 
cups of water. Place rubbers and tops in position. Partially tighten. 
Place jars in kettle and boil gently for 15 to 25 minutes. Remove jars. 
Tighten covers and invert to cool and test for leakage. Wrap glass 
jars in paper to prevent bleaching, and store. 



107 



CANNING FRUITS WITHOUT SUGAR 

Fruits Can Be Canned Without Sugar 

THIS IS THE WAY TO DO IT 

Wash fruit; cull, seed, stem, and remove skins if necessary. 

Can whole or cut in halves. Pack fruit in jars and fill the jars to 
the top with cold water. Put rubbers and caps in place and partially 
tighten. Put jars in kettle and pour cold water into kettle, enough to 
come very near the top of the jars. Cover the kettle and bring slowly 
to boiling. Boil soft fruits from 30 to 45 Ininutes, until fruit is cooked 
through. Hard fruits will require an hour and a half. 

Have only enough fire to keep the water boiling gently. More than 
this is a waste of either coal or gas, and the rapid boiling is likely to 
crack the jars. When done, remove jars from the boiling water and 
fasten covers tightly at once, without having taken covers off. This is 
important, for no air should enter jars after boiling begins. Invert to 
cool and test for leakage. Wrap in paper and store. 




108 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR CANNING 
VEGETABLES 

Pack vegetables compactly in jars. Add boiling water and salt. Re- 
lease any air bubbles by slipping a knife or spatula down between vege- 
tables and jar. Put on rings and cover without fastening them down. 
Place jars on rack in boiler. Pour warm water in boiler, enough to come 
about half way up the jars. Put cover on the boiler. Bring water to a 
boil and boil gently as long as required. Remove boiler from the stove, 
fasten down covers, take jars out and let them cool. If when jars are 
taken from the boiler there is more than half an inch of space between 
vegetables and cover, the contents of one jar can be used to fill the rest 
before the covers are fastened down. Put jars again in boiler and boil 
5 minutes more. 

Most vegetables are injured in flavor and quality by an excessive 
use of salt for seasoning in the canning process. A little salt is very 
palatable, and its use should be encouraged, but it is better to add no 
salt in canning than to use too much. It can be added to suit the taste 
when canned goods are served. 

CANNING VEGETABLES 

The vegetables most commonly used for canning can be divided 
into four classes : 

1. VEGETABLE GREENS, SUCH AS SWISS CHARDS, KALE, 
TURNIP TOPS, ASPARAGUS, SPINACH, BEET TOPS, CULTI- 
VATED DANDELION, MUSTARD PLANT. 

RECIPE FOR CANNING VEGETABLE GREENS Prepare and can 
as soon as you get them home. Sort and clean. Put in a colander; 
set colander over boiling water, and steam for 15 or 20 minutes. Re- 
move. Plunge quickly into cold water. Cut in convenient lengths. 
Pack tight in jars and season to taste. Add hot water to fill crevices 
and a level teaspoon of salt to each quart jar. Place rubbers and 
tops in position and partially tighten. Place jars in kettle and boil 
gently for 2 hours. Remove from kettle. Tighten covers. Invert to 
cool and test for leakage. Wrap in paper to prevent bleaching, and store. 

RECIPE FOR CANNING CABBAGE, BRUSSELS SPROUTS AND 
CAULIFLOWER: 

The recipe for canning these vegetables is practically the same as 
for the above-named vegetable greens, and the same instructions may 
be followed. 

Experience alone will teach the slight variations necessary in 
amount of time required for blanching, amount of seasoning necessary 
for the various vegetable greens, etc. 

2. ROOT AND TUBER VEGETABLES, SUCH AS CARROTS, 
PARSNIPS, BEETS, TURNIPS, ETC. 

JECIPE FOR CANNING ROOT AND TUBER VEGETABLES Wash 

thoroughly. Use vegetable brush. Scald hi boiling hot water 

109 



CANNING VEGETABLES 

V 

sufficiently to loosen the skin. Plunge quickly in cold water. Scrape 
or pare to remove skin. Pack whole or cut in sections or cubes. Add 
boiling hot water and one level teaspoon of salt to each quart jar. 
Place rubbers and tops in position. Partially seal, but not tight. Place 
jars in kettle and boil gently for 2 hours. Remove from kettle. Tighten 
covers. Invert to cool and test for leakage. Wrap in paper to prevent 
bleaching, and store. 

3. SPECIAL VEGETABLES. TOMATOES AND CORN. 

RECIPE FOR CANNING TOMATOES Scald in hot water enough 
to loosen skins. Plunge quickly in cold water. Remove. Core and 
skin. Pack whole. Fill jar with whole tomatoes only. Add one 
level teaspoon of salt to each quart jar. Place rubbers and caps 
in position. Partially seal, but not tight. Boil gently for 22 minutes. 
Remove jars. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test for leakage. 
Wrap jars in paper and store. An acidity that is disagreeable to the 
taste is sometimes noted in canned tomatoes. This may be corrected 
by adding % teaspoonful of baking-soda to a quart of the canned toma- 
toes when cooking them for table use. 

RECIPE FOR CANNING SWEET CORN ON THE COB Remove 
husks and silks. Place cobs in boiling water for 5 to 10 minutes. 
Plunge quickly in cold water. Pack ears, alternating butts and tips, in 
half-gallon glass jars. Pour over boiling hot water and add 1 level tea- 
spoon of salt to each half-gallon jar. Place rubbers and tops in position, 
Seal partially but not tight. Boil gently for 3 hours. Remove jars. 
Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test for leakage. Wrap jars with 
paper and store. 

Note When sweet corn is taken from jar for table use, remove ears 
as soon as jar is opened. Heat corn, slightly buttered, in steamer. Do 
not allow ears to stand in water or to be boiled in water the second time. 

RECIPE FOR CANNING SWEET CORN CUT FROM COB-Remove 
husks and silks. Place cobs in boiling hot water for 5 to 15 min- 
utes. Plunge quickly in cold water. Cut the corn from the cob with 
a thin, sharp-bladed knife. Pack corn in jar. Add one level teaspoon 
of salt to each quart jar and sufficient hot water to fill. Place rubbers 
and tops in position ; seal partially, but not tight. Boil gently for 3 
hours ; set aside until the next day ; then boil for 1 hour more. Remove 
jars. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test for leakage. Wrap with 
paper and store. 

4. OTHER VEGETABLES, SUCH AS LIMA BEANS, STRING- 
BEANS, PEAS, ETC. 

RECIPE FOR CANNING Put in boiling hot water for 2 to 5 
minutes. Remove and plunge quickly in cold water. Pack in jars until 
full. Add boiling water to fill crevices. Add one level teaspoon 
of salt to each quart jar. Place rubbers and tops in position. Par- 
tially seal, but not tight. Boil gently for 1 hour; set aside until the 
next day then boil for 1 hour more. Remove jars. Tighten covers and 
invert to cool. Wrap jars in paper and store. 

110 



HOW TO PRESERVE EGGS AT HOME 

As the shells of eggs are porous, air and germs ean get into the 
eggs through the shell and make them unfit to eat. No eggs are per- 
fectly clean when bought ; therefore it is best to wipe them with a clean, 
damp cloth as soon as you get them home. Clean eggs, kept cool, re- 
main for a week or more practically as good as when laid. As hens lay 
best in spring and early summer, it is necessary to preserve the eggs 
that are needed for winter use. Dealers use the cold-storage method, 
but housewives can preserve eggs at home by using either of the fol- 
lowing methods : 

1. BY COATING THEM WITH WATER GLASS. Water glass 
does not cost much. You can buy it at almost any drug or department 
store. 

Directions : Mix water glass with water, using 9 parts of water to 
1 part water glass. Put eggs in a stone jar and pour water glass over 
them, being careful to see that they are well covered. Keep the jar of 
eggs in a cool place. If you want to boil eggs that have been preserved 
in water glass it will be necessary to make a tiny pin-hole in the small 
end of each egg before putting them into the boiling water; otherwise 
they will explode. 

2. BY GREASING THEM. They can be greased with butter, 
any butter substitute, lard or in fact any clean fat. 

Directions: The grease must be soft enough to be applied with a 
brush. Be careful to see that the entire egg is greased. Then pack 
the eggs, small end down, in any wooden box, putting a strip of card- 
board between each egg so that the eggs do not touch each other. 
Keep the box of eggs in a cool place. 

3. BY PACKING THEM IN SAWDUST. 

Directions: Pack eggs in sawdust, small end down. Be sure that 
each egg is entirely covered with the sawdust. You can use any 
wooden box to pack them in. Keep the box of eggs in a cool place. 



Ill 



THE PROBLEM OF THE WORLD 

At the present moment food is the problem of practically the entire 
world. 

Because of the European war many countries have been unable to 
raise as much food as they did in previous years. Over forty million 
men are in the armies that are fighting. These men are no longer pro- 
ducing; they are consuming. Where they have been taken from fac- 
tories, farm men have taken their places in the factories, and as a result 
labor on the farms is very scarce. 

Our country is called upon to make good a large part of this food 
shortage. We must do this largely through saving the waste that has 
heretofore existed in our methods of using food. As a people we have 
lived most extravagantly in this country. Sooner or later we will have 
to learn various economies. Why not learn some of them now when, 
by so doing, we can benefit the entire world? 

Our country as a whole can do nothing on this important question 
without the help of every housewife everywhere. We have prepared 
this little pamphlet in order to help the housewife help her country. 
Study the suggestions it contains and put them into use at once. 

THE SOLUTION OF THE FOOD PROBLEM LIES IN THE 
HANDS OF THE WOMEN OF THE WORLD. YOU ARE ONE 
OF THOSE WOMEN. Respond gladly and at once to the call that is 
being made on you. 

Learn economy in food matters; 

Learn what foods are the most nourishing, so that you will know 
what food to buy ; 

Learn how to cook it; 

Learn how not to waste a bit of it. 

HERE IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY TO BE OF TREMENDOUS 
SERVICE NOT ONLY TO YOUR COUNTRY BUT TO THE 
WORLD. 



It costs about 10 cents to print and distribute this pamphlet. This Committee feels that 
the poorer people of New York City should have this pamphlet free of charge, and it plans to 
distribute as many in this way as its funds will permit. To this end it asks for contributions 
from those who believe this pamphlet will be helpful and who can afford to contribute to the 
fund that is being raised for the above purpose. Checks or post office money orders should 
be made payable to Mayor Mitchel's Food Supply Committee. 

Those ordering this pamphlet by mail will please enclose 10 cents in cash for each copy 
ordered. Do not send stamps. 



MAYOR MITCHEL'S FOOD SUPPLY COMMITTEE 

Room 2012 
71 Broadway, New York City 



Hints to Housewives 



PREPARED BY 

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 

OF 

MAYOR MITCHELLS FOOD SUPPLY COMMITTEE 

GEORGE W. PERKINS, Chairman 

JOHN BUCKLE CARL A. KOELSCH 

WM. H. CHILDS L. J. LIPPMANN 

GEORGE DRESSLER CYRUS C. MILLER 

M. MAURICE ECKSTEIN W. C. MUSCHENHEIM 

in collaboration with 

THE DOMESTIC SCIENCE DEPARTMENT 

of the 

Board of Education, of the City of New York 

WM. G. WILLCOX, President 



It costs about 10 cents to print and distribute this pamphlet. This Committee feels that 
the poorer people of New York City should have this pamphlet free of charge, and it plans 
distribute as many in this way as its funds will permit. To this end it asks for contribute 
from those who believe this pamphlet will be helpful and who can afford to contribute to 
fund that is being raised for the above purpose. Checks or post office money orders shoulc 
be made payable to Mayor Mitchel's Food Supply Committee and mailed to Room 2012^: 
71 Broadway, New York City. 

Those ordering this pamphlet by mail will please enclose 10 cents in cash for each copy-: 
ordered. Do not send stamps. 



Isaac Goldmann Company, Printers, New York 



Gaylord Bros. 

Makers 

Syracuse, N Y 

'.Mr.KW.jf .IMS 




93833 



UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY 



UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY 
BERKELEY 

Return to desk from which borrowed. 
This book is DUE on the last date stamped below. 



MAR 2$ 1948 

260ct57Mf 



