ec r ^ = ^ 


in 




O^— 






— \n 1 




oo 


— 


00 


u 


CN 




— o 
o 


^ _ CO 


m 




o 
o 


8s32 


o 




o 


CD . . •; 




«<" °~' 




NDCffl 




• ■= §.* 






c> zxrac 





* 



+ih 










379.73 B936 1917no.20c1 

Jarvis C D (Chester Deac 
Work ot school chldren dun 
R W B JACKSON LIBRARY 



OISE CIR 



3 0005 00028 8533 

379.73 B936 1917 no.21 d 
United States Office ot Ed 
Monthly record ol current e 
R W B JACKSON LIBRARY 



OISE CIR 



I I I 



3 0005 00028 8541 

379 73B936 1917no.22c1 

Ellis. A Caswell (Alexande 
The money value ot educatio 
R.W B JACKSON LIBRARY 



OISE CIR 




3 0005 00028 8558 

379.73 B936 1917 no. 23 d 

Lyford. Carrie Alberta 
Three short courses in home 
RWB JACKSON LIBRARY 




OISE CIR 



3 0005 00028 8566 

379.73 B936 1917 no.24c1 

United States Office of Ed 
Monthly record ot current e 
R W B JACKSON LIBRARY 



OISE CIR 




3 0005 00028 8574 

379.73 B936 1917 no.25c1 

Jesien. W S (Waclaw Siani 
Military training of youths 
RWB JACKSON LIBRARY 



OISE CIR 




3 0005 00028 8582 

379.73 B936 1917no.26c1 
Smith. Charles Orchard 
Garden clubs in the schools 
RWB JACKSON LIBRARY 



OISE CIR 
I I 




3 0005 00028 8590 



379.73 B936 1917 no.27c1 

Archibald. Raymond Clare. 1 
The training ot teachers ot 
RWB JACKSON LIBRARY 



OISE CIR 



3 0005 00028 8608 

379.73 B936 1917 no. 28 d 
United States Office ot Ed 
Monthly record ot current e 
RWB JACKSON LIBRARY 



OISE CIR 



3 0005 00028 8616 



DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR 

BUREAU OF EDUCATION 



BULLETIN, 1917, No. 



THREE SHORT COURSES IN 
HOME MAKING 



By CARRIE ALBERTA LYFORD 

SPECIALIST IN HOME ECONOMICS. BUREAU OF EDUCATION 




WASHINGTON 
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

1917 



ADDITIONAL COPIES 

OF THIS PUBLICATION MAY BE PROCURED FROM 

THE SUPERINTENDENT OF DOCUMENTS 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 

AT 

15 CENTS PER COPY 



CONTENTS. 



1 
5 



Introduction 

A home < mic library far the rural school 6 

Twentj of the home for the rural achooU 9 

Si: the teacher 9 

I. Arrangement and care of the kit' hen 1 1 

1 1 < are of cupboards and utenailB L3 

lit (are of food 1 1 

1 V. Disposal of waste LS 

V Making soap I ,' 

VI Setting the table L7 

VII. VI a Lngon table 19 

V I II and 1 \ » leneral cleaning of a room _'l 

X . < !are of the bedroom 

XI. i !are of lamps  23 

XII. Prevention of pests 

X 1 1 1 ; Lng .stains, bleaching fabrics, and setting colors 

XIV. ^ ashing dish towels, school curtains, etc 

XV Ironing 

X V I and XVII. < arc of the baby 29 

XVIII. Cost of food, clothing, and house -'A 

X 1 X How to keep accounts 31 

XX. I an of the exterior of the house 

Twent !■ n m in king for the rural schools 35 

Sug the teai her 

uipmei g l'-ssons 38 

I I': ton of foods and cooking 40 

I I. Preparing and serving \. getables 42 

III. The value oi i.i the diet 

IV. Fruits and v< 17 

V. Fata a; id oils 50 

V! la 

VII. ' foods 

VI I T. The planni Lng of meals 

IX Milk 59 

X S.ups <;i> 

X I Eggs 

XII. Simple desserts — custards 64 

XIII 

XIV i Qtinued) 

XV M 

XVI. Baked pork and beans, or baked cowp 

X\"III Butter '•- plain yellow cake co •■ 

XVIII. Yeast bread ' 74 

XIX Serving a simple dinner without m ed omelel oni 

and cheese 76 

XX. Sugar 77 



4 CONTENTS. 

Page. 

Twenty lessons in sewing for the rural schools 79 

Suggestions to the teacher 70 

I. Preparation for sewing 82 

II and III. Hemming towels 83 

IV to VIII. Bags 87 

IX . Darning stockings 91 

X. Patching 92 

X I to XVI. Cutting out aprons or undergarments 93 

XVII and XVIII. Methods of fastening garments 99 

XIX. A podded holder for handling hot dishes 101 

X X . A cap to wear with the cooking apron 103 

Index 105 



FIGURES. 



i . Arrangement of an individual place at table 19 

2. Gauge 83 

3. Even basting 84 

A. Overhanding 85 

5. Hemming 86 

6. Running stitch with a back stitch 88 

7 . Overcasting 89 

8. Bag nearly completed 90 

9. Bodkin 9 1 

10. Completed bag 91 

11. Darning 92 

12. Patching 93 

1 3. ( hitting out shirt of apron 94 

L4. Uneven basting 95 

15. Gathering 9G 

16. Sewing on the holt of the apron 97 

17. Bib and straps of apron 97 

18. Sewing on buttons 99 

19. Working buttonholes 100 

20. The holder 102 

21. Cap 103 



THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 



INTRODUCTION. 

The three brief courses in home making outlined in this pamphlet 
have been especially prepared for use in the elementary i >] . 

They an> in no sense a complete outline of the subjects with which 
they deal; rather, they indicate a few of the important phases of 
food study. Bewing, and care of the home with which the girl in the 
elemental*} school should become familiar. The underlying though! 
for eaeli problem should I"'. "Will this help the girls to live more 
t'ul lives and will it lead to belter conditions in their home 

The lessons are purposely made simple, and the plane are definitely 

outlined, so that the inexperienced teacher will be able to get her 

problem well in hand. The experienced teacher may find in them 

*esti •■■- that will be of value in the further development of her 

colli 

The lessons were originally planned for use in the rural schools 
of the South. 1 During the six months that they have been in i 

hov. the demand for copies of the outlines has been almost 

equally <j;rr:;\ from all parts of the ••on':! ry ; hence, in so i ible, 

general problems have been stated. In at e the teacher who 

desires to urse will aecessarily have t<> adapt it to her 

own community, and it i- hoped thai she maj be able to do I 
with Inn Little alteration. While conditions of living and choice of 
Is differ in the various parts of the country, general principles ot 
nutrition, rules of sanitation, and methods of cooking and serving 
arc the Bame for all. 

B of thi chool year in some rural schools and i 

difficulty of securing time on the program for frequent L< in 

home makn h of the courses has been limited t<» 20 lessons. 

• hers may not be able to have a ; number of l< 

during the school year, and they will find it well to carry the three 
courses through thi rive years, [notherschi 

f i < quent lessons i an be given it may be well to offer all three of the 
courses during ar. The courses it cooking and the care of the 

home can be combined to advantage, as many of their problems 

1 The original outlines wcr. l in response t>> r^inw-' 

5 






6 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

related. The lessons in sewing can be given on another day of the 
week or it may be well to have them given early in the year and 
followed later in the year by the cooking lessons. Thus opportunity 
will be furnished for the making of the cooking apron and the hem- 
ming of the towels. 

It is most desirable that periods of at least 40 minutes be provided 
for all of the practical lessons. Longer periods will be necessary 
for some of the lessons, such as the preparation and serving of a meal. 
If no practical work is undertaken in the lesson, a 30-minute period is 
sufficient. 

A HOME-ECONOMICS LIBRARY FOR THE RURAL SCHOOL. 

In addition to the textbooks listed as sources of special reference 
lor the rural teacher, the following books bearing on home economics 
or on methods of teaching are suggested for the rural-school library. 
They have been chosen with the threefold purpose of providing 
references for the teachers, reading matter for the pupils, and a loan 
library for the parents. 

Balderston, L.Ray — "Laundering." Price, $1.25. Published by the author. Phila- 
delphia. 
Carney, Mabel — "Country life and the country school. " Price, $1 .25. Row, Peterson 

& Co., Chicago. 
Carpenter, F. O.— "Food, or how the world is fed." Price, 60 cents. American 

Book Co., New York City. 
, , — "How the world is clothed." Price, 60 cents. American Book Co., 

New York City. 
.  — , , — "How the world is housed." Price, 60 cents. American Book Co., 

New York City. 
Chamberlain, J. F. — "How we are clothed." Price, 40 cents. The Maemillan Co., 

New York City. 
, -, — "How we are fed." Price, 40 cents. The Maemillan Co. New 

York City. 
, , —"How we are sheltered." Price, 40 cents. The Maemillan Co., New 

York City. 
Conn, H. W — "Bacteria, yeasts, and molds in the home." Price, $1.20. Ginn & 

Co., Boston. 
Cooley, Anna M. — " Domestic Art in Women's Education." Price, $1.25. Scribners 

New York City. 
Dewey, John. — "The School and Society." Price, $1. The University of Chicago 

Press, Chicago. 
Farmer, Fannie M. — "The Boston cooking school cook book." Price, $1.80. Little, 

Brown & Co., Boston. 
Farnsworth, N. W.— "The Rural School Lunch." Price, 25 cents. Webb Publish- 
ing Co., St. Paul. 
Field, Jessie, and Nearing, Scott. — "Community Civics." Price, 60 cents. The 

Maemillan Co., New York City. 
Hutchison, Robert.— "Food and Dietetics." Price, $3. William Wood & Co., New 

York City. 
Hough, T. H., and Sedgwick, W. T.— "Human Mechanism." Price, $2.40. Ginn & 

Co., Boston. 



INTRODUCTION. 7 

Kinne, 11 • o, and I M "Clothing and Shelter." Price, $1 I 11 The 

M.Kiuillan Co . New Y'.rk i ii\ . 

, , — " Poode and Bousehold Management." Price, $1.10. The liacmillan 

':.  "American National R< H Textba Price, 30 cents. Blakiston, 

Philadi 
irell, \ l P \ r. "Practical Nurd I'm >, Putnam, 

\.w York 
Henr) Neelj Rural Hygien Price, $1 Saundem, Philadelphia, 

tea, M V., and Kellogg, J. H 'Health and Cleanlint Price, 55 centB. The 

liacmillan Co., Ne* York • r 
Pickard, A E Rural Education." Price, $1. Webb Publishing < Paul. 

Pyle, Walter I. 'Manual of Personal Bygiene " Price, $1 50. Baunders, Phila- 
delphia 
Richardson, Bertha J "The Woman Who Spends." Price, $1. Whitcomb & Bar- 
rows, Boston. 

Roeo. Mary s 1 i for the Family." Price, $2 10 The liacmillan Co., 

York City. 
Sherman, Henry Clapp. -"Food Products." Pri< The liacmillan < 

York City. 



TWENTY LESSONS IN CARE OF THE HOME. 

For the Rural Schools. 

i.im: OF tiii: i 
ben. 

i. ''iiii Care of food ' Ing, storing, and handlii 

' er. Protection <•( wati 

Cm- 

| . 

i ble. 
la. 
HI and IX. General cleanin,; of a room. 

am. Ventilating and cleaning bedroom; i 

PB. 
•l XII. Prevention of |- 

i . o xiii Removto I ad setl In 

ing dish towels, sofaool cnrtains, eto, 
•II XV. b 
i aaa XVI and xvu. Care of the b od, sleep, clothing ad bathing. 

i i XVIII. <■<. i of food, clothing, and hi 

II X I X. I I' A Li k, . 

I.. SX. Care of I  f the h" 

Bl I IONS TO THE TEACHER. 

The purpose of the course entitled "The Care of the Home" is to 
give the girls instruction in the various household tasks, in order thai 
1" • : living conditions may be secured in the homes. The beauty 
;iii(l Bacrednesa <«f home life should receive emphas I hat i he girls 

may feel the importance of conscientious work in the performance of 
their daily household duties. The girls should have seme insight into 
the -aiiitary. economic, and social problems thai arc involved in 
housekeeping bat thej may develop an increased appreciation 

of the importance of the home maker's work. 

The two mosl important things to be taught arc "cleanliness and 
ord< Too much emphasis can not be put on the \ alue of fresh air 

and sunshine and the in ■• • ty for free hoi water and -nap. 

The valu< f property n usl be emp] Economy in the pur- 

and handling of irnishings and equipmenl must be con- 

sidered, tnstruction should be given in the care and arrangement of 
furniture and in the care of foods and clothing. Simple instruction 
in the care of babi* ould be given, 3inc< hildren are gener- 

ally bleforth<  of the younger meml »f their famil 

lu of the le i '.- more subjei I may I"- i than the 

her will have time ti> take up in a ingle period. In thai case it 

will be well for her to ch e the subjeel which seems mosl vital to 

the immediate needs of the community. In man; i she maj be 

able to give an increased Dumber of lessons. Pi ictice and drill in all 
of the pi- involved in houses i sntial to successful 

traim 



10 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

If a cupboard and table have been arranged for the use of cookery 
classes, most of the suggested work can be carried out with the school 
equipment. Where equipment is not at hand in the school, and 
school conditions do not approximate home conditions, it may be 
possible to secure permission to give the lesson in a near-by home of 
one of the girls after school hours. 

In each lesson the teacher should strive to impress the girls with 
the importance of doing some one simple thing well, giving them help- 
ful information in regard to the subject that will be of value to them 
in their own homes. 

The rural teacher who is eager to make her schoolroom an attrac- 
tive place can devote some time in these lessons to such problems as 
the hanging and care of simple curtains; the care of indoor plants; 
the arrangement of pictures; the planning of storage arrangements 
for supplies and of cupboards for dishes; and the preparations for the 
serving of the school lunch. 

It will be desirable for the rural teacher to have the following sim- 
ple equipment on hand in order to teach these lessons effectively. 
Additional special equipment can be borrowed from the homes. 



EQUIPMENT. 



Broom, 1. 

Cloths for cleaning, 6. 
Dish cloths, 2. 
Dish towels, 12. 
Dust bnish, 1. 



Dust pan, 1. 

Garbage can (covered), 1. 

Lamp, 1. 

Oil can, 1. 



Southern teachers can obtain the following helpful bulletins from 
Hampton Institute, Hampton, Va., upon request: 

Hampton Leaflet; Vol. II, No. 9, Housekeeping Rules. 

Hampton Leaflet; Vol. VI, No. 2, Housekeeping and Sanitation for Rural Schools. 
Hampton Leaflet; Vol. VI, No. 9, Housekeeping and Cooking Rules for Rural 
Communities. 

CAKE AM) SANITATION OF THE HOUSE. 
A suggestive list <>f texts and reference books for use in elementary rural schools. 

Brewer, I. W. — ''Rural Hygiene." Price, $1.25. Lippincott Co., Philadelphia. 

Dodd, Helen.— "The Healthful Farmhouse. 1 ' Price, GO cents. Wbitcomb & Bar- 
rows, Boston. 

Hutchinson, Woods. — "Community Hygiene." Price, 60 cents. Houghton Mifflin 
Co., Boston. 

Forster, Edith H., and Weigley, Mildred.— "Foods and Sanitation." Price, $1. 
Row, Peterson & Co., Chicago. 

Kinne, Helen, and Cooley, Anna M. — "The Home and the Family.- Price, 80 cents. 
The Macmillan Co., New York City. 

Kittredge, Mabel H. — "Housekeeping Notes." Price, 80 cents. Whitcomb & Bar- 
rows, Boston. 

Kittredge, Mabel H. — "Practical Home Making." Price, 80 cents. The Century Co., 
New York City. 

Kittredge, Mabel II. — "A Second Course in Home Making." Price, 80 cents. The 
< lentury Co., New York City. 

Parloa, Maria. — "Home Economics." Price, $1.50. The Century Co., New York City. 



DETAILED LESSON PLANS I OR THE COURSE IN 
"THE CARE OF THi: HOME." 

LESSON I. ARRANGEMENT AND CARI <>: THE KITCHEN. 

81 BJECT M \ II KK. 

In arranging the kitchen the three things of most importance are 

the Btove, the sink, and the kitchen table. If there is no sink in the 

kitchen, there will be some other place arranged for washing the 

dishes, probably the kitchen table, and this must be taken into 
consideration when the furniture is placed. As most of the work 
of the kitchen is done at the stove and the table, these must both 1"' 
pla< ed where they Will have a good light and he near BnOUgh to one 

another so that hut few steps are necessary for the worker. All the 

furniture should he kept so (lean and free from dust that the kitchen 

will have a neat and attractive appearance. A hit of green, a potted 

plant, a neat rug, and a wash tahle cover, to he put on the tabic a' 

the dishes have been washed, will help to make the kitchen a pleasant 
place for the family. 
The kitchen Bhould be thoroughly cleaned after ea< h meal. If it 
become dusty or disarranged before the next meal is prepared, it 
should be | nit in order before beg inning to work with the food. While 
the cookii inder \\ ay everything should he kept in orderly condi- 

tion. Jusl as soon as the meal is completed the left-over food should 
In- covered ami put aw ay to keep; Bcraps ami t rash Bhould be gathered 
\\\) ami disposed of; dishes, pots, ami pans should he Bcraped and 

iied in hot soapy water, then rinsed in clear, hot water, dried, and 

put away. The table Bhould he bc rubbed, the stove cleaned, the 
floor swept ami scrubbed whenever necessary, ami everything put 

: ly in 11 - place. 

Can of coal or wood range. — AH spot aid he kept oil' the rai 

wiping with old paper. The rang ouM he washed off with 

:» ami water if it is in had condition. If it is oiled onally, 

blacking will not 1..' necessary. If blacking is used, it should he 

applied with a cloth ami rubbed to a polish with a brush just as the 

fire is being started. Once a week the ashes ami .-o,,t Hue-, back of 

the oven and Under it should he cleaned out. 

Directions for buUd ga fire. — To build ami care for a fire in the 

i ami wood range, close ail dampers, clean the Lrrat<-. ; ,nd remove 

ashes from the pan. I'ut on the. and brush the dust off the 

e. Open the creative damper and the oven damper; leave the 

check closed. Lay Bome paper, sligl ly crumpled into rolls, 

the base of the grate. Lay small pieces of kindlii i across one. 

ii 



12 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

another, with the large pieces on top. Lay pieces of hardwood or a 
shovelful of coal on top, building to admit of free circulation of air. 
If the stove is to be polished, rub it with blacking. Light the paper 
from below. When the fire begins to burn briskly, add coal or wood; 
then add more when that kindles. When the fire burns briskly, and 
blue flame is no longer seen (about 1 minutes), close the oven damper. 
(lose the draft as soon as the fire is sufficiently hot. Brush the 
stove and floor beneath as soon as the fire is started. Polish the 
stove. If the fire becomes too hot, open the check. Fill the tea- 
kettle with fresh water and set it on the front of the range. 

PRELIMINARY PLAN. 

It will, be well to have this lesson succeed or follow a cooking 

lesson, for then the girls will have a keener interest in the problems 

of the kitchen. 

(See Twenty Lessons in Cooking, Lesson I.) 

METHOD OF WORK. 

Cleanliness and order are the two points to be considered in this 
lesson. The doing well of each simple household task and the 
thoughtful arrangement and planning of all parts of the house 
should be emphasized as of great importance to the housekeeper's 
success. 

Begin the lesson with a discussion of the purpose of the kitchen; 
then discuss its arrangement from the standpoint of convenience for 
the work that must be done there. Emphasize the importance of 
having the furniture so arranged that work can be done quickly and 
easily, and that the kitchen be given a comfortable and attractive 
appearance. Have the girls arrange the furniture in the school- 
room. Discuss and demonstrate the care of the stove by use of the 
school stove. Assign each girl a time when she is to look after the 

 , . on succeeding days and grade her on her work. Have each 
girl bring a report from home as to what she is doing to help in the 
care of the home kitchen. Make a specific assignment for home 
work. 

QUESTIONS USED TO DEVELOP THE LESSON. 

\\ ha1 is the purpose of the kitchen? 

Whal are the principal articles of furniture in the kitchen? 

What must bo kept in a kitchen be: ides furniture? 

How should we arrange these things? 

Can we make any general rules as to arrangement: '.' 

Why is ii difficult to k< p the kitchen clean? 

At whal limes is the kitchen most apt to become disarranged? 

Why is i! important to keep the kitchen in good order? 

In what order should the kitchen he at the time we begin the preparation of the meal? 

lle.v , hould the (loor be cleaned? The utensils? The air? 

blow should wo lake care of the kitchen during the meal? 

Whal should we do with any left-over food? 

How should we take care of the stove after the meal? 



i i - ff care i 1 :; 

LESSON ll. CARE OF CUPBOARDS \M> l TONSILS. 
-I BJECT MATT] 

It is of the utmosl importance thai cupl and other plac< 

re food is ston d be kept free from dirt and - Taps of food. Ante, 

and other pests Lllfcst dilt\ place- where food is 

kept, and render a house unfit for human habitation, h requires 
constant care and watchfulness on the part of the housewife to keep 
cupboards clean. She must look over the sh< daily, wiping 

them off whenever they need it and giving them a thorough cleaning 
at least once a week. 

The housekeeper should know how to care for the \ ai ious utensils 
and understand the simplest and best methods of keeping them 

in. Utensils should never be put in the cupboards until p 
fectly clean and dry. If utensils have become discolored or bai 

ited With material-. Ih<\ should be specially scoured when the 

dish e washed. If something has been burned in a kettle, the 

kettle i an he cleaned by filling with cold water, adding washing 

and boiling briskly for half an hour; after that a slight scraping ought 

to take the burned portion off. If not. n should be boiled again 

with soda water. If a kettle has been used directlj over a w< 

and becomes blackened with soot, it should be rubbed off with 

iper and then with an old cloth. Kettle- should be dried 

well before putting away. With proper care they seldom become 

ty. Ii an iron kettle has rusted, it can he rubbed with kerosene 

ami a- hen washed in str< ug, hot. soda water, rinsed in clear 

hot water, and dried on the Btove. If a kettle i- very rusty, it should 

covered thoroughly with jorl of grease, sprinkled with h. 

and left overnight. In the morning it should he washed out with 
da water and rinsed in clear, hot water. A new kettle i- gen- 
erally rusty, and should be greased thoroughly inside and out ami 
let -tand two day-, then washed in hot soda water. 

 ft chimney brick can b i d for scouring iron utensils ami 

1 knn I forks. If iron pots and frying pans are scrubbed 

with a piece of -oft chimney brick each time they an- used and then 

bed in hots • can be kept in good condition. Tin- 

. 1 knives and forks can he cleaned bj Bcouring with a-! 
.- line ashes should he used on tinware. The brown stains on 
kucepai ■\ t \ always he -coined off. Coffee and tea p 

should be cleaned dail >unds rei d, and the interior of the 

pots washed out t nly. The • tie should be trashed and 

dried out over night and left open i" an. 

PIU.! IMINAKV i I. \N. 
If school lunch- .veil at the school. 

it wiJl he well t<> use the lesson I the cupboards in readiness. If 

it is impossible to do tin- at school, to have such ;  in 



14 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

one of the homes outside of school hours. Be sure that the house- 
keeper is in sympathy with the work and will cooperate with the 
plans. 

METHOD OF WORK. 

Assign each girl a task in the cleaning, scouring of the dishes, and 
arrangement of the cupboard. Set a definite amount to be done 
and carry out the plans, leaving a clean and neatly arranged cupboard 
at the end of the lesson. 

LESSON III. CARE OF FOOD. 

SUBJECT MATTER. 

There are several points of importance that must be borne in 
mind if food is to be kept in good condition. Most foods change 
easily. Vegetables and fruits lose water, wilt, and become unfit to 
eat. Flour and corn meal become moldy. Potatoes decay and 
sprout. Some foods, such as milk, turn sour. Eggs become tainted 
and butter grows rancid. This spoiling can be prevented with 
proper care in the handling, storing, and keeping of foods. 

The spoiling of food is due to the presence of microorganisms. 
If foods are fresh and sound and kept cool and clean in every way, 
spoiling will not take place readily, because the microorganisms will 
not develop. If the food is roughly handled and bruised, decompo- 
sition will take place readily, for microorganisms develop in the 
bruised portions. Care must therefore be taken to select food wisely, 
handle it carefully, wash it if it is not already clean, put it in clean 
receptacles, and keep it in a clean, cool place. All pots, pans, and 
dishes in which foods are kept or cooked should be thoroughly 
cleansed and rinsed well, so that no fragments of food stick to them to 
decay and to cause possible infection to the next food that is put in 
Every part of the kitchen and storerooms should be kept clean, dry, 
and well aired. Light is the best germicide and purifier known. 

Covered receptacles should be secured for all foods. Those that 
are mouse proof and insect proof are essential to a well-kept pantry. 
All bottles and cans should be neatly labeled and so arranged that each 
one can be conveniently reached. The outside of the bottle or case 
should always be wiped off after it has been opened and food has been 
removed from it. The shelves on 'which food cases are kept should 
be wiped off every day. If a supply of fruit or vegetables is kept on 
hand, the food should be looked over frequently, and any that shows 
even the slightest suggestion of spoiling should be removed. Bread 
should be kept in a covered tin box, the box washed out once or twice 
a week, and frequently aired. 



LESi I N CARE OF Til i: SOME. 15 



PRE] IMINAIIV I'l 



If cooking Lessons are t<» be L r i\ en, it will be will to have ( his Lesson 
in connection with the first Lesson and to make it a means of arrang- 
ing for the materials that arc to ho kepi on hand and of determining 
how everything is to be handled. 



METHOD OF WORK. 

Devote a Large portion of the lesson to a discussion of the necessity 

for care in tie- handling, storing, and keeping of food. If facilities 
permit, devote a few minutes to the putting away of foods that are 

to he used in the mwi cooking lesson or school lunch, discussing 
the reasons for such cafe. 

LESSON IV. DISPOSAL OF WASTIZ. 
SUBJECT MATTER. 

If one looks after the daily disposal of waste, there will be no offend- 
ing accumulation of trash. Scraps of food that can be no longer 
utilized for the table can be fed to the pigs or chickens, but. 
they should not be allowed to stand around and gather flies. 
A covered pail or pan should be used for holding the garbage until 
final disposal is made of it. Those portions of waste that are badly 
spoiled ami will be of no value in feeding the stock should be burned 
up at once. Piles of waste vegetable substances, if suitable, should 
be fed to the ^tock, and if not, should be buried in a thin Layer on the 
ground at BOme distance from the bouse so that they may enrich the 
soil and not at tract flics. 

Utensils that have held food should be thoroughly washed and 

rinsed with hot water or steam in order to prevent particles of food 
from adhering ami becoming spoiled. Milk bottles ami pans should 
always be thoroughly Bterilized with boiling water or steam after 
they have been washed. The garbage can should be boiled with 

water and soda each day and rinsed Willi hot water in order to 
keep it BWeel and clean. 

Old papers thai are badly -oiled should be burned, but all others 

should be kept for use in cleaning the -t<>ve, starting Ores, etc. 
Empty can- should be well washed and buried, BO that they will not 

prove a breeding place lor flies, It is well to pierce them through 
the bottom immediately after opening them so thai they will not 
hohl water. If not convenient to bury the cans, they should be 
burned up. Dishwater should be emptied some distance from the 

house unless there is a drain near the house. All receptacles that 
hold water should be carefully emptied and all depressions in the 

soil should be tilled up to prevent mosquitoes. All waste water can 
be used on the garden. 



16 THEEE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

Protection of water supply. — Only water from deep wells should 
be used for drinking purposes, because all surface water and water in 
shallow wells becomes dangerous through seepage from compost, 
pigpens, privies, and other places where decayed organic matter is 
accumulated. In order that the water be kept clean, the well must 
be supplied with a tight-fitting top, which need not be opened, and a 
metal pump to bring up the water. A well platform that allows 
water spilled on it to run back into the well is unsafe, for any filth 
carried on to the platform in any way will be washed directly into 
the well. Rats, mice, and other animals get into the well if the top 
is not tight, and these, in addition to being unpleasant, are liable to 
carry germs. 

Simple disinfectants. — Sunshine and fresh air arc nature's disin- 
fectants, and should be freely admitted to every part of the house. 
Windows should be left open whenever possible. The windows in 
sleeping rooms should always be opened at night. The interior of 
the house should be kept perfectly dry. Decay does not take place 
in dry places that are well aired. A damp cellar should be drained 
off, and the grounds around the house should be prevented from 
draining into the cellar. Coarse coal ashes should be used to fill in 
around the house, on the walks, etc., to help secure thorough drain- 
age. The fine ashes should be thinly scattered over the vegetable 
garden in order to restore the valuable properties they contain to 
the soil. Wood ashes can be used as a simple disinfectant to cover 
decayed organic matter. Whitewash is a good disinfectant and 
should be frequently used both inside and outside the house and on 
all outbuildings. Slacked lime is valuable as a disinfectant for use 
in the cellar or barn lot. Kerosene and creoline also make good dis- 
infectants for frequent spraying of the barn lot. 

Can of out-of-door closets. — The privy should be so arranged that it 
may be cleaned often and all excreta disposed of in a safe way. The 
building should be so well built that there will be no cracks for the 
tstant admission of flies. In a poorly constructed building, old 
paper can be pasted in the cracks to make the structure fly proof. 
Alter each using dry earth, street dust, or lime should be sprinkled 
through the seat, then the seat should be closed to prevent flies or 
mosquitoes entering. The top of the seat should be frequently 
washed, and both the seat and the floor in front of it scrubbed at 
least once a week. 

PRELIMINARY PLAN. 

It will be well to teach this lesson at a time when improvements 
are necessary in the care of the schoolhouse. The discussions in 
regard to out-of-door closets will have to be taken up at a time when 
the girls are alone with the teacher. 






IN CAM OF TH1 HOME. 17 

M ETHOD OF w ORK. 

Discuss the disposal of waste, the care of garbage, etc., for the 
home and for the school. Talk over the care of \ from the 

school lunch and discuss methods of keeping the school in sanit 
condition. Follow this by general cleaning about the schoolhouse. 

LESSON V. MAKING SOAP. 

-i BJ1 ■< ! MATTEE. 

Il«'\i BMADE BARD 30 \!\ 

ads fat 1 pint of c >ld water. 

.n lyo. It;' 

lowly. Mix lye .in.l water in a bowl or kettle (do nol use o tin pan . 
stirring with ;i stick until the potash dissolves. Add tin- borax and allow the mix turf 

>••!. <• I the fat  : en it is lukewarm add the lye, pouring it in a this 
and stirring constantlj . Stir with a smooth Btick until aboul as thi< k ae and 

• niiimt. .r the mixture into a 1 harden. 

Cut into pieces the desired in a 1. dry place for in days, to ripen 

before using. 
When i ip be careful net t<> spal ish <<r lye on the hand 

bad burn. If hands are burned with b with t once. Do nol 

them. 

PRKI.IMINAUY PLAN. 

ime time before this Lesson is given ask the girls to l>ri: aps 

fat from hon See that these are in good condition, and weigh 
them to determine the portion of the recipe thai can be made, 
ii one oi the girls can bring sumci< for the recipe. 

METHOD OF WOEK. 

Have tin girls look the fal over and pul it on to melt, watching it 
efully. While it is heating and cooling, the process of soap 

making of materials, care nec< . in the making of soap, and 

importance of i Gel the other materials ready for the recipe 

and \ for molding the Boap, and have the girls work together. 

After the soap has hardened and been cut, have the girls pul it away 
on a shelf to dry. 

LESSON \ I. SETTING THE I VBI 
9UBJE< l ma i l ' I'. 

Points to be remembered when a meal is to be served: The dining 
room must t free from dust and fiies, well aired, sufficiently 

lighted, and in good order. 

The table musl be perfectly clean and covered with a clean white 
cover (tablecloth, doilies, paper napl or oilclot 

A vase <»f flowers or leaves, or a small potted plant, arranged in 
the center of the table, will help to make the table attractive. 

95619°— 17— Bull. 23 2 



18 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

The table should be prepared with everything necessary for serving 
the meal, but only those foods placed on it that will not be spoiled 
with standing. If there is danger of the food attracting flies, cover it 
carefully. 

Plates for everyone who is to partake of the meal should be 
arranged at equal distances from one another, half an inch from the 
edge of the table. 

The knife should be placed at the right of the plate with the cutting 
edge toward the plate and half an inch from the edge of the table. 

The fork should be placed at the left of the plate with the tines of 
the fork turned up and half an inch from the edge of the table. 

The spoon should be placed, bowl upward, at the right of the plate, 
to the right of the knife if it is to be used first, to the left of the knife 
if it is not used until after the knife is used. It should be placed 
half an inch from the edge of the table. Spoons and forks for serving 
should be placed at the right of the one who is to serve. No one at 
the table should have to use the personal fork or spoon for serving 
either herself or others. 

The napkins should be simply folded and placed at the left of the 
fork. 

The tumbler should be placed at the upper end of the knife. 

Cups and saucers should be placed at the right of the plate with 
the handle of the cup turned to the right. 

The individual butter dish, if used, should be placed at the upper 
left hand of the fork. 

Salts and peppers should be placed in the center of the table or at 
the sides where they can be conveniently reached. Individual salt 
dishes, if used, should be placed immediately in front of the indi- 
vidual plate. 

The chairs should be placed up to the table after it is set. Care 
should be taken not to place them so close that it will be necessary 
to move them when they are occupied. 

PRELIMINARY PLAN. 

If possible, arrange to give this lesson before Lesson VIII in the 
series of "Twenty Lessons in Cooking" is given; then the emphasis 
in that lesson can be put upon what to serve, proper combinations, 
etc., while this lesson gives the drill in the arrangement and handling 
of dishes. 

It is desirable to give the girls thorough drill in table setting and 
table service, since much of the pleasure derived from eating foods 
depends upon careful attention to these processes. 

Be careful to see that everything necessary is on hand to set the 
table nicely but simply. For class practice a small table can be set 
for four. This will necessitate a table cover, five or more dinner 






19 



plates, four butter die >r plates, four tumblers, four cups and 

sere, four knives, four foi wr teaspoons, four napkins, a salt 

dish, a platter, one serving Bpoon, and on rving fork. If these 
things are not already in the Bchool, the] can probably be brought 
from home by the girls. If linen cloths arc not used and can not be 
afforded in the homes, the girls can !>. | to use a sheet <>f white 

oilcloth on the table. 

Have a diagram of the arrangement of an individual place ;if the 
table made on the blackboard by some of tin . 




mpnt of an indh iduaJ pi . !o. 

nley, " Piinci] oHng.") 

I. K: - ....... i. Perk. 5. Napkin. 6. Bread-and-butter plate. 7. Dinner ; 



METHOD OF WORK. 

The pc of table setting should be demonstrated with I 

at hand and the work should be adapted to home con- 
ditio 

If their i- no available table in the schoolroom, the desk tops can 

be '.-■ d f'>r individual pi 

R< 3 for all the forms used should be given the convenience 

of placing knives and B] ns t«> the right, forks t<> the left, and the 

cup and saucer and tumbler to the right, I napkin, • 

son \ II. WAITING ON i KB\ 

81 BJ] I I M \ i 

The person who is t<> wait on table must l>e careful t<> see that 
rything is in readini as before th< nn 1 is announi o that she 

can do her work readily without subjecting those at the table to 



20 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

delay. She should have drinking water, bread, and butter (if used) 
at hand, hot dishes ready for the hot foods, and clean dishes laid out 
for the dessert. She must see that her own hands are perfectly 
clean and her hair and dress in order. A clean, neat apron will 
always improve her appearance. The room should be clean and 
neatly arranged before the meal is served. 

If the meal is to be a family one and all are to sit down at the table 
together, plates will be passed from one to another as they are served, 
but it will still be well to have one person appointed to wait on the 
table. She can keep watch and be ready to supply more bread, 
water, etc., when it is necessary and to change the plates for the 
dessert course. She should rise from the table quickly and quietly 
in order not to disturb the others and should take her place again as 
soon as all necessary service has been rendered. 

The following rules should be observed: Always handle tumblers 
from the base, being careful not to bring the hands in contact with 
the upper edge. Fill only three-fourths full. 

Serve butter in neat, compact pieces. Put on the table just before 
the meal is served. 

Cut bread in even slices, pile neatly on serving plate, and place on 
table, covering with a clean napkin or towel if flies are bad or there 
is danger of dust. Place dessert dishes at one end of the table, or 
better still on a side table until time to use them. When carrying 
dishes to and from the table be careful not to put the fingers in con- 
tact with the food. Learn to place the hand under the dish. In 
nice service a napkin is used between the hand and the dish or a 
tray is used if the dish is a small one. The tray should be covered 
with a napkin or doily. 

When a dish is passed, hold it at the left of the person to be served 
low enough so that she can help herself readily. Be sure that each 
dish of food is supplied with a spoon or fork for serving, and turn the 
handle of the serving spoon or fork toward the one being served. 

If a plate is to be placed hi front of a person, set it down from the 
right and remove it from the right. Never reach in front of others 
at the table. 

When a course is finished remove all large dishes first; then the 
soiled plates, knives, and forks. Be careful to handle only a few 
dishes at a time and not to pile them. If another course is to be 
served, crumb the table, using a napkin and plate for the purpose and 
brushing the crumbs lightly into the plate. Fill the glasses and 
arrange the dishes and forks or spoons quickly for the next course. 

When the meal is over the chairs should be moved back from the 
table, the dishes neatly piled and carried to the kitchen sink, the 
table wiped off, the crumbs brushed up from the floor, and the room 
aired. 



I N ' \B1 OF '1 B B HOW 2 ! 

ri:i:i imin vm PL v\. 

Lei this lesson be a continuation of the ions one, putting 

emphasi method of waiting on table. ame articles 

for sotting the table will In- required thai were in use in the ! 
on. [n addition to these tin* girls must be careful to have <1 
>ns for the lesson <>u table Bervice. 

Mi i BOD OF WORK. 

e the table aet as of the wort <>f the lasl lesson; then 

four or six of the girls I al the ;h the 

forms of serving one another to anj simple  i u-ul upon which the cJ 

Family meal service should be explained and demon- 

: then service where there is one waitress. Hi te 

girl - uaitr d Berve all the others, i m take turns in 

offering and placing food, removing Boiled dishes, Oiling tumble] 

IMS VIII AND IX. GENERAL CLEANING OF A ROOM. 

iiich arc in constanl use should ho brushed up 
dusted every day. A thorough cleaning of each room in the house 
will be necessary every week or two, even though the room is brushed 
and kept in order every day. First, all cl ts, drawci 1 other 

a which articles collect should be cleaned; then all la 
de articles should be dusted and moved out of : 
re uol readily movable should be dusted and covered. 
Ho.. Jd !>«• swepl with tho windows closed; then the wind' 

should be opened and the ceiling and walls br 
broom and the dust allowed to * Thei floor should h<> 

wiped with a damp ->n the broom. 1 The w Iwork should l»o 

ined with a damp cloth and a soap that is nol too oda 

or sapolio should not boused. The furniture should be carefully un- 
covered and all arranged in perfect order. 

The things that are highest up should be dusted first and 
uld be taken to collect all duel in the dust cloth. The cloth 
should be shaken out of d after collecting tin* dust, washed 

thoroughly, and boiled after using. The dust cloth Bhould be 
dampened bef< n all surf i pt the polished furniture 

and window-. 

Sweeping Bhould ie with short trokes and the bro< . pt 

close to the floor, bo that thi will not fly about. • of 

the  uld b< I first, the d g ar< d in the center of 



' If the B 
allow »t a time 

Dowwl wr . 'nged fre- 

quently. A cloth shoul .* out of clear w^ter f^r --or. 



22 THKEE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 



room and then swept into the dust pan. The dust should be burned 
up; for it may contain disease germs. The broom should be cleaned 
after using. 

Small rugs should be cleaned out of doors. They should be swept, 
beaten, and reswept, then rolled until ready to put on the floor. If 
the rug is a large one and can not be removed, it should be wiped over 
with a damp cloth, rolled up, and the under side of the rug and the 
floor beneath it wiped up. 

After the room has been cleaned, the windows should be arranged 
so that a supply of fresh, clean air can come constantly into the room. 
This is essential to every room in the house if perfect health is to be 
maintained. 

PRELIMINARY PLAN. 

It will be well to have Lesson IX given hi one of the homes some 
day after school hours, if possible. If that can not be arranged, the 
schoolroom can be utilized as the place for practice. 

METHOD OF WORK. 

Devote Lesson VIII to a discussion of the methods of cleaning and 
to various short tasks about the schoolroom. In Lesson IX have the 
girls go through the entire process of cleaning a room. Assign some 
portion of the task to each one of the girls so that all of them can take 
part in the work. Supervise the work carefully, assign home practice 
in the cleaning of rooms, and have each girl clean a room at home once 
a week for a month 

LESSON X. CARE OF THE BEDROOM. 

SUBJECT MATTER. 

As soon as one is dressed in the morning, the windows in the bed- 
room should be opened to air the room and the bedclothes should be 
separated and put on chairs before the window to air. The slops 
should be emptied and the chamber washed with cold water, using 
a special cloth. The bowl should be washed in warm, soapy water, 
which should then be poured into the chamber and used for washing 
it. The toilet articles should be washed, then the bowl rinsed and 
wiped dry. The slop jar should be washed out thoroughly, and fre- 
quently the slop jar and the chamber should be washed out with 
chloride of lime or some other disinfectant. The pitcher should be 
filled with fresh water and all articles' arranged neatly on the wash- 
stand. If towels are soiled, clean ones should be supplied. The 
bed should be made carefully, the mattress turned, the first sheet 
tucked under the mattress all around, and the other covers tucked 
in at the bottom and two sides of the bed. The bed should be kept 
free from wrinkles and smooth in appearance. The pillows should 



SIN CABE OP Till- BOM 23 



be well shaken and arranged at the head of the hod. The floor 
should be brushed u|>, the furniture dusted, and everything |>ut m 
place. The windows should be left partly opened so that the bed- 
room i- well aired. A sufficient amount of Fresh air is absolutely 

Bntial in a bedroom, ami it is important that the room be well 
aired out during 'In- day ami left with windows opeo at. night. 

When the room is t<> be thoroughly cleaned, the frame of the bed 

should he dusted and the bed made up. The window >hades should 

lie dusted and rolled up. Cur' mould hi- well shaken and cov- 
ered if one has a dust sheet. All small articles mi the bureau, table, 

and shelf should he placed on the bed and the whole covered with a 

sheet. Tables, chairs, and any other movable pit hould be 

dusted and Bet outside the room or covered. Rugs should be rolled 
up and cleaned oul of doors. The room should be -wept and dusted. 
Afl ttled, -should he removed from the fur- 

niture, and the furniture, rugs, and all Bmall articles should be 
restored to their places. Shades should be adjusted and the room 
left in perfect order. The broom and everything else that has been 

u.-ed in the work should he cleaned and put back into plao 

PRELIMINARY PLAN. 

It may he possible for the teacher to give this lesson in her own 
bedroom or in the bedroom of some of the neighbors. Unless thi 
feasible the only way t«> have it effective is to have the girls report 

'i day oil the work they do at home. 

\M I HOD Ol WORK. 

Qlustrate each process and give reasons for everything that is 
don,-. Emphasize the importance of the Banitary care of the bed- 
room, a i' j-'d.ir time for doing the work, and the benefit of having 
each member of the family care for her own persona] belongings and 

her own portion of the bedroom. 

I l SSON XI. C \\tl\ (>l LAMPS. 1 

SI BJ 'i MAI! ER. 

/> '-/■ cleaning and fitting the /<im/>. A bright light eon 

from clean burners that allow a good draft. This means constant 

eatf on the part <>f the one thai looks after the lamps. In the daily 

ining of lamps, first dust the chim le and the body of the 

p. Wash the chimney. It lean with newspaper bef 

. turn the wick high en< • sho^ all the charred 

part; cut this off, making it perfect^  en. then rub with a piece of 

: -.v • • :• 
" lighting in country homes, ^c«J will irj^tr , > lighting 

taciii 



24 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

soft paper. Wipe off the burner and any other part of the lamp that 
seems oily. Dry with another cloth. Fill the body of the lamp with 
oil within an inch of the top, leaving plenty of room for the gas that 
may be generated from the kerosene. The gas that is generated in 
a lamp that has been used many times without refilling may be a 
source of danger. 

When lighting the lamp first turn the wick down, allowing the 
chimney to become heated gradually. If necessary to move the 
lighted lamp, first turn the wick low. The flaring up of the flame 
smokes the chimney. Do not leave a lighted lamp in a room where 
there is no one to watch it. When putting out the light, blow across 
the chimney, never down into it, as this might send the flame down 
jnto the kerosene. 

About once a month give the lamp a thorough cleaning. Spread 
out a newspaper and take the lamp apart. Wash the chimney and 
shade in hot water and dry with a towel. Polish, using soft paper. 
Boil every part of the burner in water to which two tablespoons of 
soda have been added. Put new wicks in if all old ones are dirty. 
Put the parts all securely together again. Keep an old pan and cloths 
exclusively for this purpose, and be very careful not to get a drop of 
kerosene or the dirty hands near any foods. 

Have a regular time of the day for cleaning lamps, preferably 
immediately after all the morning work has been done after break- 
fast. Do not fill the lamps near the kitchen stove. Do not light a 
match while the oil can is out. Never fill a lamp while lighted or 
while near another one which is lighted. If a fire is caused by kero- 
sene, smother it with a heavy rug or woolen garment. Do not 
attempt to put it out with water. 

PRELIMINARY PLAN. 

It will be well to give this lesson just before some evening enter- 
tainment at the schoolhouse. If there are no lamps at the school 
hnve a few brought in from neighboring homes. Secure an old | 
and cloths to use in cleaning. 

METHOD OF WORK. 

Talk with the girls about the cost and properties of kerosene and 
the danger of having a light near a can of kerosene. Explain the 
draft by means of which the kerosene can be made to burn on the 
wick, and the danger if the burner becomes clogged up and the draft 
cut off. Have the lamps taken apart, burners boiled, chimneys 
cleaned, and body of the lamps filled and wiped off. Then have the 
lamps lighted to see that they burn properly. 



USE i N < \i:i OF THE HOME. '25 

LESSON XII. PREVENTIOr 01 PESTS. 

31 BJEOT M\i i ER. 

Household posts are annoying, dangerous to bealth, and destruc- 

io property. Pests carry disease germs from one person bo 

another and from other animals to human beings. Absolute cleanli- 

in ever} pari of the house is essential if the place is to be kept 

free fit. in pests. A i a rule, pests flourish in dark, damp, dirt} places. 

The housekeeper can keep her place free l'r<>m pests with the-proper 

If pests barted, (he housekeeper should know how to 

erminate t hem. 

A few simple methods of extermination are heri en: 
Bedbugs. Kerosene should he poured mi<> all cracks and a brush, 
dipped in kerosene, run briskly over all surfaces. Care must be 

taken to have no life in the house while tin - i- being done. Window 
»uld he Open and the room kept lire from dust. In foUT (lays this 

.should he repeated, to kill any bugs that may have jusl hatched. 
tckroaches '/"</ waterbugs. — A solution of i pound i<\' alum to 
:'\\.~. of water should he poured into all cracks. Insect powder 
and borax afe also effective. Absolute cleanlin id freedom from 

dampness an if the house is to I..- kept free from road 

Ante. Oil of cloves it pennyroyal on pieces of cotton batting 

sea. about in the places when- .-mi appear will drive them 

Saturating tie with coal oil will destroy them. Food 

which attracts ants should he removed from places which they arc 

apt h. 

RaU • re besl exterminated by the use of a trap or 

ration like "Rough on '!. should be set 

ould he Bcalded and aired after .1 mouse hae I" 
caught. I'at holes maj \>r atopped up l>\ sprinkling with chloride 
of lime ;.nd then filling with mortar or plaster of Paris. 

breed in swampy pi »r in old barrels or kegs or 

tin which hold ant water. Therefore, if the swamps 

places he drah ed and the grounds aboul the house kepi free from 
Btagnant water the housekeeper will generally uol be troubled with 
mosquitoes. Empty barrels or kegs should he inverted and old tin 
:,ould have a hole punched in tin- bottom -<> that they will 
not catch water. All high ? rthel should bo cut down 

will not prO\ ide a damp pi &< 6 to harhor 

mosquitoes. If it is impossible to . d of all stand i ter, the 

breeding of mosquitoes can be checked by pouring kerosene <>il on 
the water. One ounce of oil on 15 square feel <d' water is sufficient. 
This will have to be renewed at leas once in 10 days. The do< 
windows, and ventilators of the house Bhould be will screened a 
protection againsl mosquitoes. 



26 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

Flies are one of the greatest carriers of typhoid and other germs 
and filth of all sorts. They can be gotten rid of only when the 
breeding places are destroyed and the flies killed as rapidly as pos- 
sible. Materials that attract flies should not be exposed in and 
about the house. The house should be well screened with wire mesh 
or mosquito netting to keep out the flies. A fly swatter should be 
kept at hand. Stables should be cleaned daily and the barn lot 
frequently sprayed with kerosene, creoline, or lime. 

Fleas will be troublesome if cats or dogs are kept in the house. 
These house pets should be given frequent baths, the rugs on which 
they lie should be brushed and shaken daily, and the floors washed 
with soap and water and wiped with kerosene. 

Moths are apt to develop in woolen garments unless the gar- 
ments are thoroughly shaken and absolutely protected by wrapping 
in newspaper and put away. Woolen garments that are used only 
occasionally should be kept in a light, dry place, handled frequently, 
and hung in the sun occasionally. Moths or carpet beetles can be 
exterminated from carpets by applying kerosene. 

PRELIMINARY PLAN. 

Give this lesson at a time when the girls are asking about the 
household pests or when the school is suffering from some pests. 
It would be well to have the lesson in the spring just before school 
closes, so that the girls can put into practice what they learn. It 
may be desirable to devote the efforts to the destruction of one par- 
ticular pest. For example, a fly crusade may be inaugurated. 

METHOD OF WORK. 

If there are pests in the schoolroom, discuss their habits, what 
seems to attract them, where they come from, etc. Have girls 
report any pests they have at home. Explain why they are dan- 
gerous, tell how they can be exterminated, and assign to each girl 
the extermination of one household pest. Have her report each 
day the success of her efforts. Continue this work for several weeks. 

LESSON XIII. REMOVING STAINS, BLEACHING FABRICS, AND 

SETTING COLORS. 

SUBJECT MATTER. 

As garments and household linens are apt to become stained and 
thus lose their attractiveness, it is well to know remedies for the 
most common stains and the principle upon which their removal 
depends. All stains should be removed as soon after they occur 
as possible. Boiling water will loosen and remove coffee, tea, and 
fresh fruit stains. The stain should be held over a bowl and the 



  i \ c\i;i OP Till. HOME. 27 

&r poured upon it with Borne force. Cold wain- will remove Btains 
from Mood or meal juice. Soaking will help in the removal of blood 

ns. Rusl Btains can be removed by w< bting the stain with lemon 
juice, covering with salt, and placing in the sun. Stains from Btove 
blacking, paint, and gri is can be removed 1 > \ soaking in kerosene 
ing well with -nap and water. Ink stains can he removed 
by soaking in water, removi much a possible, then Boaking in 

milk. Stains from cream and other forms of m be washed 

out iii cold water, followed with warm water and soap. 

White cotton and white linen materials can be bleached by expos- 
ing while damp to the sunshine. If left out overnight the bleacl 
process is made eff by the moisture furnished by the d<-\v and 

frost. A st rrain of -team from the teakettle may also help the 

bleaching pr 

by the addition of a small amount, of acid to 
the first water in which they are soaked, while other- ai by the 

use of Bait. Jt is necessary to try a small amount, of the mi 
before dipping in the entire garment in order to be sure of results. 
Mould be used for blues; use one-half cup to one gallon of 
water. Salt is mosl effective for browns, blacks, and pinks. Jn 
mot - two cup- of Ball to one gallon of cold water will be enough. 

I'KKI.IMIN LEI PLAN. 

The towels used for drying dishes or the linen used for some school 

tinmen! may have become stained with coffee, fruit, <>r some 

ubstance. Make this the basi of a lesson and have the girls 

bring other things from which they wish to remove stain-. Bach 

rirl should have an article from which to remove a Btain. Lei I 

l> preliminary to the lesson on laundry work. 

- bod <>i \\< IRK. 

Examine the various articles at hand from which stains are to be 
removed. D scuss the method of removal and have each girl work 
on her own Btain until it is as nearly removed as possible. 

LESSON XIV. v tSHINO DISH rOWELS, SCHOOL CURTAINS, I \C. 

-i BJE< r ma i i 

Dish towels should be thoroughly was! ed out at least once a da 
one pi a t ime (cleanest 6j in w and 

rinse in clear water in another pan. II j up in the -un, if possible, 
bo that the air will pass through. Boil al l< reek in 

water to keep fresh and white. - .ml fresh valuable 

for the purpose of bleaching and purifyu 



28 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

Wash the school curtains in hot, soapy water; boi], rinse, and blue 
slightly. A small amount of thin starch may be desirable for the 
curtains. A thin starch can be made as follows: 

RECIPE FOR THIN STARCH. 

\ cup starch. \ cup cold Avater. 

\ teaspoon lard. 3 pints boiling water. 

Add the cold water to the starch and lard, stir until smooth, then add the boiling 
water slowly, stirring constantly. Boil for several minutes in order to cook the starch 
thoroughly; then add one pint of cold water and a small amount of bluing. Dilute 
if necessary. 

Hang the curtains in the sun to dry, shaking well before putting on the line and 
folding the edge over at least 6 inches. Be sure to have a clean line. When dry, 
fold carefully. A short time before ironing, sprinkle well. 

PRELIMINARY PLAN. 

It may be desirable to give this lesson earner in the course, if 
cooking lessons are being given and dish towels are in use, or if the 
school curtains arc badly soiled. Other articles may be washed 
if time and facilities permit. 

METHOD OF WORK. 

Discuss briefly the need for laundry work and the general princi- 
ples. Have the girls each take a turn washing the towels or cur- 
tains; examine the article after it is washed and give careful direc- 
tions for the boiling, bluing, and starching. While these processes 
are being completed, have some of the girls prepare the line. Have 
two girls appointed to bring the towels in off the line before they go 
home from school. 

LESSON XV. IRONING. 

SUBJECT MATTER. 

To do good ironing it is necessary to have a firm, unwarped ironing 
board. This should be covered with some thick woolen material and 
a white muslin cover that is clean, smooth, and tightly drawn. 
The thick cover should be tacked on, while the top cover should be 
pinned so that it can be easily taken off for cleaning. A heavy holder 
should be provided for handling the irons. Irons should be clean 
and smooth. Paper should be kept at hand to keep the irons clean 
and a piece of beeswax, sandpaper, or salt should be provided for 
keeping them smooth. A small cloth should be used to wipe off the 
iron after using the beeswax. A newspaper should be spread on the 
floor to protect any pieces that may hang down that far while being 
ironed. The coarser towels should be ironed first, as the irons grow 
smoother the longer they are used. Starched pieces should not be 



r B6SONS IN < AKl OF THE HOME. 29 

ironed until the irons have become vcr} hot. Every piece should be 
ironed until perfectly dry. If the article i^ first laid Bmooth it. will 
be easier i<> iron it and keep it in Bhape \ 30011 as ironi om- 

pleted it'- articles should l>e hung up to air out well. 

PREl DUNAR1 PL w. 

Arrange to have the ironing lesson ju as soon after the laundry 
: possible. It \^dl probablj be easy t<> borrow the nee 

equipment from near-bj homes. Bach girl can be appointed '<> 
bin nothing thai will contribute toward the equipment and 

1 i an be appointed to have the fire ready and another to put 
the irons on t<> heat before the lesson hour. 

METHOD OF WORK. 

Call the girl early in the morning or at some other time 

i period and give them directions for sprinkling 

the articles to be ironed. When the cla hour comes, demonsti 
the method of ironing, folding, and hanging the articles and have 

the girls take t urns doing the work. 

LESSONS XVI AM) XVII. CARE OP THE BAUY. 
Bl BJE< T MATI I 

Be  girls are fond <•! little children and musl often help 

then- moth rs with their baby brothers and sisters, the) should know 
how t them, h is < ntial thai they understand the 

lowing points: The little body needs protection. The head is aofl 
and the brain maj be injured by hard bumps or pressure. The skin 
is tender ami i- . irritated by the bites of insects, friction, etc. 

Kickin etc., are necessary to the development of the bal 

muscles, but the baby should not be played with nil the time for it is 

well for it to lie (|ilie!j\ a portion of the time while awake it should 

be made t<> ail up until ready to do A desire to creep should 

be encouraged. Standing or walking should not be taught th< baby 
A i! tries tn do -'i foj itself and then it musl be helped are- 

fully. 

The baby sin ml. i have plenty of fresh air and should be allowed to 
Bpend much of its time oul of doors. ! cold weather the I . ust 

be warmly covered and sheltered from high winds. Its ould 

a! »e protected fr< m strong sunlight. 

Regular hours should be i ed for sleep and the baby should be 

put !<» bed early a! night. If the ho is not v • reened, ;i D 
quito bar should be put over the baby's crib. Clothing should be 
light and loo that the body can move freely. 



30 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

Perfect cleanliness is necessary to keep the baby's skin in good con- 
dition. A daily bath should be given. A morning hour is usually 
the best time for bathing the baby, midway between the meals. 
The baby should be taught to use the chamber before the bath 
and after the nap. Everything should be ready before the baby 
is undressed. The room should be very warm. The water should be 
only moderately warm and should be carefully tested to make sure 
that it is not too hot. The towels and covers for the baby should be 
at hand. The head and feet should be washed first, and the body 
soaped before putting the child into the bath. Little soap should be 
used for washing the baby, for even the best soap is strong and apt to 
irritate the delicate skin. The bath should be given quickly, the 
body wiped very dry and covered as soon as washing is completed. 

The baby should be fed in small quantities at regular intervals and 
given plenty of cold water to drink. Not until 11 or 12 months of 
age should it be given solid or semisolid food. Even then milk should 
continue to form the basis of the child's diet, and of this a considerable 
quantity should be used — about a quart a day from the twelfth 
month on. As the child grows older a more varied diet will be neces- 
sary. The most hygienic methods of food preparation must always 
be observed. 

Certain foods should never be given: Fried foods, pastries, condi- 
ments, pickles, preserves, canned meats, fish, pork, sausage, cheap 
candies, coarse vegetables, unripe and overripe fruits, stimulants, 
foods treated with a preservative or coloring matter, and half-cooked 
starches. 

PRELIMINARY PLAN. 

The teacher should talk with the girls in order to see what points in 
connection with the care of the baby it is necessary for them to know 
in order to do their work at home intelligently. 

METHOD OF WORK. 

It will probably not be possible to have anything more than a class 
discussion of the points in question, but the girls' home experiences 
ought to make this discussion vital. If there is a nurse is the neigh- 
borhood who can be secured to give one lesson on the care of the baby, 
the teacher should supplement her own lessons with an additional 
lesson by the nurse. 

In connection with the care of the baby the teacher will be able to 
secure help from bulletins entitled: 

Infant Care, Care of Children, Series No. 2, Bureau Publication No. 8, Children's 
Bureau, United States Department of Labor, Washington, D. C. 

Food for Young Children, Farmers' Bulletin 717, Division of Publications, Department 
of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 

The Care of the Baby, United States Public Health Service. 

The Summer Care of Infants. United States Public Health Service. 



[1 OABB OP Tl 31 

LESSON XVIII. COS1 01 POOD, CLOTH I NO, WD HOUSE. 

. : \1 \ Til l; 

Ii is of great importance '.hat nil children learn the ralue <>f prop- 
in an elementary way. This will prepare bhem fin- the knowl- 
edge of the cost of Living that i- essential. They can learn that, the 
cost <>f food tan In- decreased by keeping gardens ami }>v proper 
choice, caic, and handling of foods; thai • are of clothing will reduce 

this item of expense; an I that the OWnin own house ami lot 

i- something worth working for in order t<» reduce the ent. 

PRELIMINARY P] \ 

The teacher will have to acquaint hers (If thoroughly with condi- 
tions in the community so that she can talk intelligently with the 
girls, emphasize the right points, ami give them constructive help. 

M I I IK)1> of woj 

Begin with a discussion of the cost of food , how much the children 
cam or spend during the week; and why it is worth while to cook and 
well, and look after property. Continue such discussions from 
time to tune m connection with other school work. 

LESSON XIX. HOW TO KEEP ACCOUNTS. 

It is well for one to keep a written record of all money received 

ami all money spent. Children Bhould he taught to do tins as s..,,ii 

I hey are big enough to have money in then- possession. A Bimple 

little notebook in which all expenditures are entered on the right. 

hide and all receipt-, on the left side, w ith the balance drawn up each 

week or month will prove an Mid satisfactory method of keeping 

tunts. If the little girl learns to do this with her pennies, she 

will he" better able to take Care of the more important household 
accounts when Bhe i> in charge of a home. However, there will be 
no good incentive for her to keep .-,■ • I endeavoring 

r some good purpose. If she learns to save for the future 
purchase of a book, a dress, or some little treat, Bhe will feel that 
account keeping i-> worth while. Ajs a housekeeper Bhe will ap- 
preciate t he importance of saving for some future good to the famil) 
a better house, Bchool for the children, etc. 

PUB] IMIN \KV PI 

In order to make the I oil k< counts of vital inter* 

introduce it at a time when the girls in the clag ing for some 

cific purpose i al for a dress '" be made in Bewing el. 

refreshments for a party for their mothei boo! library, or some- 

thing else that will be a pleasure and help in school work. 



32 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

METHOD OF WORK. 

After discussing the possible sources of income of the girl and of 
her family, and the means of increasing and taking care of that 
income, discuss simple methods of keeping accounts, illustrate them 
on the blackboard, show how to balance the accounts, and see that 
each girl has a small book for the purpose. It may be necessary to 
make or to rule this book as a portion of the class exercise. 

LESSON XX. CARE OF THE EXTERIOR OF THE HOUSE. 

SUBJECT MATTER. 

Closely allied to the housekeeper's work within the home is the care 
of the exterior of the house and its surroundings. It is absolutely 
necessary that the grounds be kept neat and clean. In addition to 
this they should be made attractive by the careful selection of a few 
shrubs rightly placed. While the gardens at the rear of the house 
may be planned solely for the pleasure and use of the family, in 
planning the lawn at the sides and front of the house the neighbors 
and passers-by must be considered. The grounds should be a picture 
of which the home is the center, the shrubs being grouped to frame 
the picture. In order to do this, the center of the yard should be 
left open with an occasional tree or shrub, so placed and pruned that 
it will not hide the house. Shrubs and vines should be planted close 
to the house to break the severe line between the house and lawn, 
and so utilized as to hide the sheds. The arrangement and varieties 
of shrubs and vines should harmonize both at the front and sides of 
the house. One, two, or three kinds should be chosen as a has:.-,. 
If a shrub is planted at one corner of the house, the same variety 
should be planted at the other end. Similarly, the same sort of vine 
should be planted on both sides of the front porch. Care should 
be taken that vines do not cut off the supply of light and air from 
the interior of the house. 

The following list of shrubs and vines for planting close to the 
house may be suggestive: 

Shrubs: Barberry, deutzia, forsythia, hydrangea, Japanese quince, dwarf euony- 
mus, lilac, privet, spirea, snowball, caps; jasmine, sweet shrub. 

Vines: Boston ivy, clematis, English ivy, honeysuckle, wistaria, climbing roses, 
climbing euonymus. 

The center of the lawn should be left free of unnecessary walks, 
drives, piles of stones, or pieces of statuary. A few flowers should 
be planted among the shrubs to give color at different seasons. 

The exterior of the house itself must be considered, if the picture 
framed by the shrubs and vines is to bo a pleasing one. The house 
should be painted in a soft brown or dark green to blend with the 
landscape of oaks and pines. The paint will help to preserve the 



BONS in 8ABB OF THE EIOMS. 33 

house, but its color must be Cai elull y chosen 111 older to give h pl< 
ing effect. 

The back yard should be used for v< >le gardens with (lower 

borders. For tins purpose a deep, rich oil is accessary and every 
square fool of space should ho utilized. Every family should Learn 
to make use of an increased number of vegetables and fruits and bo 

ik them in a variety of ways. No crops should be allowed to go 
to waste. Intensive L2-months gardening should be practiced. A 
familj of live people could he entirely provided with vegetables 
from a garden less than 7o by 5<) feet. 

With the exception of sweet peas, all flowers needed for picking 
purposes should he grown in the flower borders in tin- back yard. 
Sweet peas should be planted in rows in the vegetable section. The 
attractivenec well as the usefulness, of the. flower borders de- 

pends upon the choice and arrangement of flowers. The jlov 
should he chosen as in height of plants, color of blooms, and s< 
of blooming. The talles I plants should i.<- placed at the back of tha 
border; for a border 6 feci wide none of the pi .-mi- need he over 5 feet. 
There can he .i riot ol colors if the flowers are arranged in (lumps ( ,f 
four to si \ throughout the entire length of the border. In a well- 
planned flower border some flowers should be in bloom each mouth. 
perennial flowers should predominate, with enough annual 
ilov. . fill up the spaces and hide the soil. A surprisingly large 

QUmtx r o1 plants * ill he needed. Perennial (lowers should he started 

iu -t-vA beds in March and the plants transplanted into the floi 
borders in October. Annual flowers should be started iu (hits in 

i\ Bpring and i!ii' plants trail-planted into the (lower borders in 

d. The well-tried, old-fashioned flowers will give the besl satis- 
faction. Everj four years the flower borders need to he spaded, 

II manured, and replanted. 

TO 

Perennialt B - heart, carnations, chr inthemums, columbine, coreop 

dahlias, gaillardias, golden glow, iris, larkapui oriental j" 'j>j>o-.- peonies, phlox, 
pinks, platyi inapdraj 

me-not, i Canterbury bells, hollyhi eet-william, 

wall Hi >v. 
Annuals. Airican da ratum, a ula, calliop on, candytuft, 

lonette, Dasturtium, petunia, popp 
:. verbena, zinnia, annual phlox, red sunflower, cul and-ci 
i sunflower. 

Bach home gardener will need to studj garden literature to help 
solve the garden problems, for the da ha ed when one ueeds 

only to scratch the soil with a shell, plant the and receive an 

abundant crop. To-daj successful gardening depends upon intelli- 
gent, management of the soil and crop, and upon persistent Labor. 
95619°-] -17 3 



34 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

The Department of Agriculture at Washington, D. C, publishes many 
helpful farm bulletins that may be secured free of charge. 

Many State experiment stations publish bulletins on vegetable 
growing. These bulletins are sent free of charge to the people within 
the State on application to the director of the experiment station. 
A few of the bulletins published by southern experiment stations are: 

The Home Vegetable Garden.— Virginia Truck Experiment Station, Norfolk, Va. 
Truck Growing in North Carolina. — Department of Agriculture, Raleigh, N. C. 
Vegetable Gardening. — Georgia Experiment Station, Experiment, Ga. 
Farm Gardens.— Division of Extension, College of Agriculture, University of Teu- 
nessee, Knoxville, Tenn. 

Books on gardening that are useful for the home garden. 

Card.— "Bush Fruits." Price, $1.50. The Macmillan Co., New York City. 

Duncan.— "When Mother Lets Us Garden." Price, 75 cents. Moffat, Yard & Co., 
New York City. 

Ely.— "A Woman's Hardy Garden." Price, $1.75. The Macmillan Co., New York 
City. 

French.— "The Beginner's Garden Book." Price, $1. The Macmillan Co., New 
York City. 

Lloyd.— "Productive Vegetable Garden." Price, $1.50. Lippincott Co., Philadel- 
phia. 

The United States Bureau of Education through its division of 
school and home gardens sends out literature and gives direct assist- 
ance to those schools that wish to have the home-garden work car- 
ried on by their pupils. 

PRELIMINARY PLAN. 

The teacher should visit the homes of all the children in order to 
make herself familiar with the condition in which their grounds arc 
kept. She may be able to secure permission from one of the house- 
keepers to use her grounds for the practice place for the lesson, or it 
may be more desirable to give this lesson at the school and to conduct 
a school garden as a model home garden. 

METHOD OF WORK. 

Discuss the arrangement and care of the home or school grounds. 
Have the class clean up the lawn and garden chosen for the lesson, 
supervising the work carefully. Assign the cleaning up of the home 
lawns or work in the home gardens for the coming week. Let this 
lesson serve as a means of interesting the girls in home gardening, 
if that lias not already been taken up, or of emphasizing the relation 
of gardening to the housekeeper's work if they are already interested 
in gardening. 



TWENTY LESSONS IN COOKING. 
For the Rural Schools. 



OUTLINE OF TIIK COUR81 

Lesson I. Discussion of foods and cooking. Management of the Kiu! heat. 

! or fruit. 

ii. Water and mineral matter in vegetables. How I and s<>rve uncooke<i vegetables, 

lot! -, cabbage, etc. Cooking by moist heat. How to boll, season , and s e no beet tops, turnip 

tope, cahbage sprouts, 1 or other vegetable 

Lesson III. Th« I carbohydrates in the diet. I'otatoes as a source of carbohydrates. The oh 

-ition.food value, and cooking of sweet pot it. is and white potatoes. Baked sera 
 med squ.vsh. 
Lesson IV. Fruits their food v:Uuo and use. Reasons and rol< for oanning. How to can and uaa 
•les as beets, beans, tomatoes, and carrots, and such fruit 

and peaches. The drying of fruits and vegetables. 
Lesson V. 1-ats and "il-. V. continued. 1'reparation of white sauce to serve with veget . 

Ilow to boil, season, and serve such vegetables as lima 01 battel beans. String l>oans,cowpeas, onion.-,, 

okra, cabl>ace. collaT'ls, com, beets, turnips, or carrots. 
Lesson VI. (Vroals— kinds, composition, care, and general rules for cooking. Oatmeal, cracked wheat, 

hominy grits, com-meal mush, or rice. Fruits.to serve with inee, stewed appli 

apple sauce. 
Lesson VII. ( l.i.- ification of foods, reviewed. 
Lesson VIII. The planning and ser\ ing of meals. 
Lesson IX. Milk, tare, cost, and food value of milk. The value and use of sour milk ootl ige I ' 

clabber. Kice or corn starch podding (plain, caramel, or chocolate). 
Lesson X. ('ream soups, t'ream of carrot, potato, or onion soup; green pea or oowpea soup. 

ist, croutons, or crisp cru-kors to servo with soup. 
Lesson XI. Kggs. Food value and general rules for cooking. Eggs cooked in shell, poached, scrambled 

and om< 
Lesson XII. Simple desserts. Custards. 
Lesson XIII. tnd hoe cako. 

Lesson XIV. Batten (continued). Methods of making e of soar milk and soda 1 

B and torn mullins. Baking-pon 
Lesson XV. ate it. Con Bow to make tough outa palatable. Porkcl 

friM ap; ror mutton stew with i i dumpUnga. Rabbll stew, Bacon. 

Lesson XVI. B il ed pork an I r l>.ike<l cowpe . -ors. 

Lesson XV 1 1. Butter caki low cake. tea. 

Lesson XVIII. 

Lesson XIX. Serving simple dinners without meat. loaroni and oheeae. 

Lesson XX. s . Peanut cool 

molasses, or fudge candies, to l>e 

0OE8TTONS l < >K '1 111', i I v < il I i:. 

Tin 1 teacher should learn li<»\v the children in her school hve in 
their own hom< b, what t ods they use, what foods thej raise, and how 
they prepare and Berve their foods. The instraction given in the 
lessons should !><• based on this knowledge. Possibilities for the 
improvement of accepted methods should be considered. Tb 
foods should be used in I bich the children can afford to 

at home. They should he encouraged to ra »e other foods in 
their gardens and to keep chickens, i od cov 



36 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

Elementary principles of nutrition and sanitation should be 
taught. Simple meals should be planned with plain but well-cooked 
dishes. Variations should be suggested and the value of a mixed 
diet emphasized. Care should be taken not to waste time on points 
that are unrelated to the homes of the girls, except as such points 
may be necessary to raise their ideals. 

All the work should be carefully done. Sanitary handling of food 
and care in storage of foods should be insisted upon. Careful atten- 
tion should be given to the dish washing, care of dish towels, etc., 
emphasizing those points hi sanitation involved. The girls should 
be drilled faithfully in all points essential to the handling of anything 
that comes in contact with the food. 

Proper methods of sweeping and cleaning should be employed 
and thoroughness practiced in every detail of the work. Thorough 
drill in these processes should be given. 

The order in which the lessons are to be given will be regulated in 
part by the season of the year in which they occur, the locality, the 
foods obtainable, and any special local needs. However, care must 
be taken that the lessons occur in proper sequence, so that the pupils 
will see the relation of one to the other and will appreciate the value 
of each. It may be necessary to combine two lessons or to give 
only part of a lesson. In some of the lessons more recipes are sug- 
gested than could be prepared in a brief period. In every case the 
choice of recipe will have to be made by the individual teacher. 
Wherever possible, simple experiments to show the composition and 
effect of heat on food should be used. 

No attempt has been made to give a complete set of recipes. 
Those included axe chosen to illustrate the subjects to be discussed 
in the lessons. A few have been taken from the Farmers' Bulletins 
and from circulars of the Extension Service of the Department of 
Agriculture. The others have been carefully tested and used with 
satisfactory results. The teacher who desires to make use of a 
greater number of recipes will do well to supply herself with one of 
the textbooks listed. Level measurements should be used hi the 
preparation of all the recipes and all the directions should be care- 
fully followed. 

The first few lessons are more fully outlined than the others, 
furnishing suggestions for methods of procedure that can also be 
adapted to the later lessons. The teacher should have a detailed 
plan for every lesson, outlining her method of work, the leading 
questions for the discussion, and the home assignment which she 
desires to make. . 

Foods that are in common use are suggested for the lessons out- 
lined. There will necessarily be exceptions to their use in different 



I -s i\ OOOKfSG. 37 

localities. If foods used in the hom< e harmful because of the 
manner in which they are prepared, the teacher ahould do all in 
hvv • '" correct the custom, but he must be careful no! 

lv •' " radical, If the le given are not repeated by homo 

,! "  : *H1 be practically wa ted. Simple meal service 

uld be introduced wherever possible, and as much instruction 
the Furnishing and care of the kitchen should be included as 
time pera its. 

ime the course is completed, the girl should be able to 
er kitchen in Banitary condition, and she should have a knowl 

of [ ' values and of tin- proc of cooking sufficient t«. 

provide simple, wholesome meals for her family. 

F«.r the teaching of I I values, it will be hrlpf.il to secure the set 

<»f 15 food charts, that can beobtained for$] from the Superintendent 

of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, D. I 

Tl Department of Education or the State university, col- 

r normal schools, through their extension departments may 

• material thai will be of help to the rural teacher in planning 

her i. 

The teachers will find it helpful to secure and Btudy the Farmere' 
illetins listed below. Single copies of these bulleti be ob- 

ined free by writing to the Division of Publications, Department of 
Agriculture, \\ ashington, I). C. 

I IRM1 B8 1 Bl LLBTIN8. 

in-. 

•'■ Principles .,1 nutritive value of food, 

tnned fi , an. I jelly. 

A breakfast i I 

nation of \' r table. 

f fruit as f I. 

• N '"- - in the borne. 

 The use of milk a 
No. 389. Bread and bn ad making. 
• N; "- t r i • - borne. 

mica] uses in 1 1 > • - di 

hi. I in club work. 

;i meal a* a food ami « g K 

Honey and itei 
No. 712 E I lunch 

v, " B07. !'•■ td and bread making in the home. 

No 808. 1 1, m to select t I-. No. I. V  ds. 



38 



THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 



EQUIPMENT FOR COOKING LESSONS. 

The following list of utensils would provide, an adequate equip- 
ment for cooking lessons. Some of the utensils should be ordered in 
larger numbers, if the class is large and if funds permit. If it is 
possible to obtain serving dishes, they should be provided for a small 
number of persons and used both in class practice and for social 
purposes. If the school is an active social center and the dishes are 
to be in use frequently for many people, the number provided should 
not be so limited. If school lunches are served, each pupil may 
well provide his own dishes. Dust cloths, broom, etc., have been 
included, so that simple lessons in housekeeping may be given. 



COOKING UTENSILS. 



Approximate cost. 

Baking dish 

Bowls, mixing, 2 

Bread board 

Bread box 

Broom 

Brush, scrubbing 

Brush, vegetable 

Can opener 

Containers, lard pails or cans.. 

Corkscrew 

Cups, measuring, 2 

dips, mixing, 2 

(Hitters for biscuits or cookies. 

Dishcloths, 2 

Dish pans, 2 

Dish towels, 6 

Double boiler 

Dust cloths, 6 

Dustpan and brush 

Egg beater 

Flour sifter 

Forks, 6 

Frying pan 

Class jars, 6 Mason 

Grater 

Hand basin 

Jell y glasses, 6 

Kettle, 6-quart, with lid 

Knife, bread 

Knife, butcher 

Knife, paring 

Knives, case, 6 

Meat grinder 

Mop 



30 

60 
25 
25 
35 
10 
10 
10 

10 

20 

10 

10 

10 

40 

90 

75 

,40 

,40 

10 

15 

,60 

,90 

.60 

,10 

,15 

,15 

.40 

,30 

,15 

,20 

.60 

.70 

.40 



Approximate cost. 

Molding board 

Muffin tins, 2 sets 

Oil stove 

Omelet pan 

Oven 

Pail, garbage (covered) 

Pails, water, 2-quart, 6-quart 

Pan, baking 

Pan, cake 

Pans, bread, 4 

Pans, pie, 2 

Pitcher, 2-quart 

Plates, 6 

Ramakin 

Rolling pin 

Salt and pepper shakers 

Saucepans, 3 (1 -quart, 2-quart, 3- 

quart, with lids) 

Soap dish 

Spatula 

Strainer 

Tablespoons, 6 

Teakettle , 

Teaspoons, 6 , 

Tray 

Wooden spoons, 2 small 



Serving dishes. 



Bowl. 

Cream pitcher. 

Cups and saucera. 

Knives and forks. 

Napkins. 



$0. 35 

.20 

1.15 

.25 
.85 
.90 
.80 
.20 
.10 
.40 
.10 
.30 
.30 
.05 
.10 
.30 

.60 
. 10 
.20 
.15 
.30 
.40 
.30 
.15 
.30 

19. 85 



Plates. 
Sugar bowls. 
Tablecloth. 
Tumblers. 



 s in oookiho. 39 

ID8 ami COOKKKY. 

A tunc irztbooktj ,■ . 

• Bertha J.— "Don - » Price, Vol. 1, 60 cents; Vol 2, 60 cents, 

Lyone it Camahan, Chica 
ey, Emma - "Principl , y " ivi, a u American B 

New York City. 

Flagg, Kit.i P \ Handl k of Home Economi - ' Price, 7 r > cents. Little 

Brown A I >n. 

J "' ! " ' , ' »ns in Elementary Cookery." Price, $1. Lippincott Co., 

Philadelphia 

o,and< If.— "Food and Health." Price, 65 cents. The 

Ifarmillan Co., New Y<>rk City. 
Lincoln, Mary J.— "The School Kitchen Textbook." Price, 65 cents. Little, 

in. 

^ Martha L. ami Cookery." Pi , centa. Industrial Education 

. Indianapolis. 

Morr ' I 'Household b and Arts for Elementary Schools." p 

iK> cents. American Book Co., New York City. 
Piri.-. Emma E.— "The Science of Home Making." Price, 00 centa Bcott, 1 

man & <'■>,< Ihicago. 
WiHiams, Mary E . and Fisher, K. R.— "Theory and practice of Cookery." Price 

$1. The Macmillan Co., New York City. 



DETAILED LESSON PLANS FOR THE COURSE IN 

COOKING. 



LESSON I. DISCUSSION OF FOODS AND COOKING. 

Management of the Kitchen Stove. Cooking by Dry Heat. Baked Vege- 

table or Fruit. 

SUBJECT MATTER. 

Foods -The body uses food to build aod repair its tissues to pro- 
vide beat and energy, and to regulate body processes Foods differ 
from one another in their composition and in their ability to perform 
the work of the body. These differences have led to the classification 
of foods into five groups, which are spoken of as the five food stuffs 

01 ' , ZlL -We some foods can be used as they occur in nature, 
most foot are made more acceptable by the application of heat. 
Hert softens the structure of vegetables and frmte, makes tender 
toe feues of meat, prepares starch for digestion, develops flavor m 
mly foods! and d^ro'ys parasites and germs that may be ^en 
, food The five food stuffs are differently affected by heat, some 
require slow 'cooking, others require intense heat. Hence, it > nec- 
X to study cooking that each food may be properly prepared. 
nel^e-l knowledge of the construction of the stove and the 
methods whereby heat is obtained is necessary if one > to be a suc- 
^ cook. For all stoves three things are necessary-fuel a sup 
X of oxygen, and a certain degree of heat, known as the kmdhng 
nobit whlreby the fire is started. The supply of oxygen is regulated 
lydimpL and checks so arranged as to admit or cut oft the draft 

° f The creative dampers are doo.s or slides that come below the fire 
box wC open they admit the entrance of air, mcrease the draft 

^itT^fTtot plate which closes the opening into the 
clmm ey flue to dLease the drawing of the draft. When the oven 
d^r is closed, the heat from the fire remams m the stove and 

^crr'lToT-doors higher than the fire box, which, when 
open, aflow the cMd air to pass over the fire, retarding combusts. 



40 



(80N8 IN 0OOKIN0. I 1 

A Btove ib also provided with meant for disposing of the ashi 
Boot, and the gases formed. All parte of the stove are bo arranged 
th.it thej can be kepi clean. 

e Tw ii' I • Bona in the ( I tome. \.< man 1. 

PRELIMINARY: Pi \\. 

There should be provided for this lessor some fruit or vegetable 

in ; (from the homes of the pupils, if possible) that can be 

1 by dry heat. Each child may be able to bring an apple or a 

.i". The teacher should be sure t<> have an oven that tan be 

well heated for baking, and to have the fire well started before I 

on begins, bo thai the oven will !><' ready for use. It there is do 

. a pan of ashes and hot coals can be arranged to surround the 

pan of apples in such a way that they will hake. 

A i. saon in geography and nature study should be correlated with 
the cooki] on to give the pupils opportunity to study the source 

of foods and the reasons for cooking foods. 

One of the pupils should write the recipes for the lesson on the 
blackboard before the lesson hour. 

RECIPES. 

Bal lea. 

\\ ...-h the apples, core them, and cul through the -1 in with a knife so thai the apple 
md in 1 without breaking the skin. Place the apples in a 1 

and fill each center with su{ Covei ,; .' btom of the dish with water one-fourth 
inch md bake until the apples are Bof1 20 to 45 minutes), basting them e 

10 mil .'■ Pis e them in a serving dish and pour the juice over them. Serve hoi 
nr < ..Id. 

Baked - 

Scrub  refully and phv e in a ; pan. Bal e in a "!•»■» ■■• en from 45 

minutes to one hour. When soft, break skin to let steam < 
! dish 

1 Bulletin 258 Preparati i ablee for the table. Farmi 

Bolletii 

MKl [ion OP \* ORK. 

I) rery briefly the food that is to be cooked and the method 

of cooking it. Have as many apples or potatoes bal there are 

members of the i 3 the baking di >h will hold. 

Assign tasks to sin cial members of the class. 

Put the vegetable or fruit in the oven as quickly as poe ible to bake. 

While baking is in proc< general discussion ot foods and 

cooking, and a Bpecial disci] i f the food which is being used and 

the method of cookn g employed in the Lesson. 

Give as thorough a I. -on on th e and combustion as time 

permits. ESxamine the baked art: d discuss methods of serving 

it, time for servu g, etc 



42 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

Use the finished product for the school lunch or have it served 
nicely in the class, letting the pupils taste it. Encourage them to 
bring a dish from home to take the results of their work home for 
the family meal if a school lunch is not served, or if they do not need 
a lunch. Give careful directions for washing dishes and supervise 
the housework carefully. 

(It may be necessary to go on with some other recitation before 
the baking is completed, in which case one member of the class should 
be appointed to watch the oven.) 

Questions to serve as a guide in the development of the lessoi. 

What food have we on hand for use to-day? 
Does this food need cooking? Why? 
How shall we prepare it for cooking? 
How shall we prepare the oven? 
How shall we care for the fire? 
How long will it he necessary to cook this food? 
(Time the haking carefully and discuss more thoroughly at the close of the lesson.) 
How can we tell when it is done? 
How shall we serve it? 
. For what meal shall we serve it? 
Of what value is it to the body? 
How shall we wash the dishes? 

Home assignment— Pupils should prepare the baked dish at home 
and report their work at the next lesson. 

LESSON II. PREPARING AND SERVING VEGETABLES. 

Water and Mineral Matter in Vegetables. How to Prepare and Serve Un= 
cooked Vegetables, Lettuce, Cress, Cabbage, etc. Cooking by Moist Heat. 
How to Boil, Season, and Serve Beet Tops, Turnip Tops, Cabbage Sprouts, 
Kale, Spinach, Mustard, or other Vegetable Greens. 

SUBJECT MATTER. 

Water.— AR fluids and tissues of the body contain large quantities 
of water, therefore water is regarded as one of the most important 
foodstuffs required by the body. Practically all foods contain some 
water. The fresh vegetables and fruits provide the body with, a 
higV per cent of water. 

Water is a valuable medium for cooking. As it heats, small 
bubbles are formed which continually increase in number and size, 
but gradually disappear. Some time before the boiling point is 
reached an occasional large bubble will rise to the surface and disap- 
pear. The water has then reached the simmering point, 185°, a 
temperature frequently made use of in cooking. When many 
bubbles form and break, causing a commotion on the surface of the 
water, the boiling point, 212°, has been reached. 

Mineral matter.— -Mineral matter is a second foodstuff that is 
needed by the body, but the amount required is very small. If a 



LESSONS IN COOK INC. 43 

variety of food is used there is generally enough mineral matter in 
the diet. Fruits and vegetables, especially fresh green vegetables, 
are comparatively rich in mineral matter. Mineral matter builds up 
tlif bones and certain tissues like hair, teeth, and nails, and regulates 
(In- body processes by keeping the blood and digestive fluids in proper 
condition. 

Green vegetables. The green vegetables bold an important place 
in the diet because they contain valuable mineral salts. They also 
contain a high percentage of water and considerable cellulose. With 
few exceptions the} Bhould be eaten raw, because tin- mineral salts, 
being Boluble, arc losl in the water in which they arc cooked, and 
he. ause the cellulose serves its purpose besl in the crisp form. Cab- 
rendered much more difficult of digestion by cooking. 
Spinach, beet tops, etc., are more palatable cooked. The delicately 
flavored vegetables should he boiled in a very small amount of water, 
so that they need not he drained. Thus the mineral matter will he 
retained when the vegetables arc served. 

l'Kl.l.l.MlNAKV PLA] 

There should be provided for the lesson some fresh vegetables in 

-on (from the home of the pupils, if possible), One* that cm he 

iked by boiling, and one that can be served uncooked with a simple 
dref sing. 
( toe "f the pupils should write the recipes on the blackboard before 

the lesson hour. 

I IIM'.S. 

Pr ep ar at ion of Froth G  n V-ijrtabUs. 1 

Wash . lee thoroughly, Leaving in cold water to cri.-<|>, if wilted. Kcc]> cool 

until r. -;i< i \ to serve, then arrange neatly and dress with salt, vinegar, and oil 
de ired, or pre] are a French dressing aa follow 

French Drt u 

\ \< i!t l tabli poon vinegar. 

on pep] dad "it 

Stir briskl) until thoroughly combined and use at 01 
RecijH for 

Wash vegetables carefully, put on to cook in boilin r. Delicately flavored 
tables (spin !> ry, En . will require Inn Little water and tK.it. 

Bhould be allowed toboilawa; .it II t&ntly, novi 

nerd be added. Btarchy vegetables should I iletely ci vith water, and 

strong-flavored vegetab onions, iliflower) should !<'• 
cooked in a targe am iuj ding water. 

After vegetabl ked Lor ;i Lew minub all Bhould be added, ><n<- U 
ful to each quart of water. 

1 It may foe well to omit from tli 
to give it at some other timn. It Is not well to attempt to i 



44 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

Cook the vegetable until it can be easily pierced with a fork. Let the water boil 
away at the last. If necessary to drain, do so a3 soon as the vegetable is tender. 
Season with salt, pepper, and butter (£ teaspoon salt, £ teaspoon pepper, and \ table- 
spoon butter to each cup of vegetable). 

See Farmers' Bulletin 256, The preparation of vegetables for the table. 

METHOD OF WORK. 

Discuss the boiling of water and its value in cooking. Have the 
girls observe and describe the boiling of water. 

If a new tin saucepan or other bright tin vessel is at hand to heat 
the water in, the changes which take place as the temperature in- 
creases will be more readily apparent and the girls will enjoy watching 
the process. 

Discuss why one vegetable is to be cooked and the other served 
uncooked. 

Emphasize the cleaning of the vegetable, its structure, composition, 
and the effect of the boiling water upon it. 

After the vegetable has been put on to cook, discuss the method of 
seasoning or dressing the vegetable which is to be served uncooked, 
and have it prepared to serve attractively on the plates. Especial, 
emphasis should be placed on the use of fresh, green vegetables. 

Continue the discussion of vegetables, having the members of the 
class suggest others that can be prepared as a salad or cooked in the 
manner illustrated, writing the list on the blackboard for them to 
copy in their books. 

When the cooked vegetable is tender have it drained, seasoned, 
and served, and serve the uncooked vegetable at the same time. 

When ready for serving, have the pupils arrange their plates and 
forks carefully, then have them all sit down but the two who pass the 
two vegetables. Be sure that the pupils eat carefully and nicely. 
Emphasize housework as on previous day. 

Questions to serve as a guide in the development of the lesson: 

How shall we prepare our vegetables for serving? 
Of what value is hot water in cooking food? 
How must the vegetable be prepared for boiling? 
Does this vegetable contain any water? 
Will it be necessary to add any more? 
Will it be necessary to cover the saucepan? 

How hot must the water be kept? How can one tell when the water is suffi- 
ciently hot? 
How can we determine when the food has cooked long enough? 
How shall we serve this vegetable? 
How does boiling compare with baking? 

In time? In flavor? In amount of fuel used? In amount of work necessary ? 

Home assignment. — Practice in the boiling and serving of vegetables. 



\s IN OOOKINO. 45 

LESSON III. THE VALUE OF CARBOHYDRATES IN THE DIET. 

Potatoes as a Source of Carbohydrates. The Choice, Cost, Care, Composi- 
tion, Food Value, and Cooking of Sweet Potatoes and White Potatoes, 
Baked Squash, Steamed Squash. 

SUBJECT MATTER. 

Carbohydrates. A third class ol Food stuffs required by the body 
is k arbohydrates or sugars and starches. 'I his d 

of foods is used as fuel for the production of heal and energy in the 
body. I. of carbohydrates may be stored in the body as tatty 

me. 

Potatoes— Potatoes are a cheap source of carbohydrates. They 
also valuable For their mineral matter and For the Large quantity 
of water which they contain. Three-fourths of the potato Is water. 
The framework of t he p bas a b -is of cellulose, which is an 

indigestible carbohydrate material. Potatoes have only a small 
amount oi cellu however, and they are comparatively easy of 

digestion. When dry and mealy they are most easy of digestion. 
Swet I potatoes contain a larger per cenl of sugar than white potatoes 

! the cellulose in sweel potat Ftei - more quickly when cook- 

When used for '. pota dd be supplemented by 

some muscle-building Food, such as mill gs, fish, or meat. 

PRELIMINARY PI AN. 

At some previous period the teacher should have discussed with the 

girls the use of potatoes and learn from them t he various ways in which 

they cook them in their homes. She should determine upon some 

recipes for the lesson that will ineri he variety of ways in which 

be served and will impn ve the methods used. 

girl should be asked to bring one or two potatoes for the 

lesson. It will he well to cook in class the kind of potato that is 

chei ■! most commonly used in the community. The best 

bhods of cooking and mi ; variety should he empha- 

sized. 

KKC1PF.S. 

Mashed Potatot 
itatoes. 1 tablespoon butter, 

up hot milk or cream. l te 

Wash and p:ire potatoes, boil, drab . dry, and n in tbe 

saucepan in which they irerecooked. Beat tl until very light and ci add 

hot milk, batter, and salt ami beat again, r. beat, and 

Bra ned Pot 

Wash, scrub, and ear.' potat <*? ui* unifon Parboil I 11 minutes, then 

dripping nan with meat or on a rack in a baking pan. 
Baste with v in minutes when meat ia basted. 

Allow about -10 minutes for the potatoes. 



46 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

Experiment to show presence of starch in potatoes. 

Scrub and pare a potato. Examine a thin cross section. 

Grate the potato. R,eniove the coarse shredded portion. Examine. 

Examine the liquid and note any sediment. 

Heat the liquid and stir until boiling. How has it changed? 

Examine portion of grater. How lias the color changed? Why? 

Fried Sweet Potatoes. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in one-fourth inch slices, season with salt and pepper, 
put into a hot, well-greased frying pan, brown on one side, turn and brown on the 
other side. 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes. 

(i sweet potatoes. 4 tablespoons boiling water. 

\ cup sugar. 1 tablespoon butter or other fat. 

Scrub, pare, and boil potatoes 10 minutes in salted water; drain, cut in halves 
lengthwise and put into a buttered baking pan. Make a sirup of sugar and water, 
boil 3 minutes, add butter. Baste potatoes with sirup, put into a hot oven, cook 15 
minutes, or until browned, basting every 5 minutes. Serves 8 to 10. 

Steamed Squash. 

Prepare squash as for baking, put in steamer over boiling water, and cook 30 minutes 
or until soft. Then scrape squash from shell, ma3h, and season with butter, salt, 
and pepper. 

Baked Squash. 

Wipe shell of squash, cut it into pieces for serving, remove seeds and stringy portion, 
place in a dripping pan, and bake in a slow oven three-quarters of an hour (until 
tender). Serve at once. 

See Farmers' Bulletin 258, The preparation of vegetables for table. 

METHOD OF WORK. 

Discuss the composition and structure of the potato. Read over 
and discuss the recipes that are to be used. 

Make assignments for work. After the potatoes have been put 
on to cook, have the class examine a raw potato, following the 
directions given. 1 

If one of the recipes requires the use of the oven, be careful to have the 
potatoes for it prepared first and as quickly as possible. It may be 
necessary to proceed with another class, assigning one pupil to take 
care of the baking. Special attention should be given to careful 
serving of the potatoes. 

Home assignment. — Before the next lesson .each pupil should be 
able to report that she has cooked potatoes at home, using the recipes 
learned in class. 

1 Squash is another vegetable containing a high percentage of carbohydrate. The recipe for squash can 
be prepared at this time or made use of in some other lesson. 



LB880N8 IN COOKING. iT 

I BSSON IV. PRUITS \M> VEOI I M'.i I 5 

I <>,>j Value and Use "i I 'raits. Reasons ami Rules for Canning. How to 
Can and Use such Vegetables as Beets, Beans, Tomatoes, and Carrots, 
end such Fruits as I igs, Q rapes, Muscadines, Apples, and Peaches. I lie 
Drying of Fruits end Vegetables, 

SUBJECT U LTTER. 

Fruits imparl palatability and flavor to other foods and exerci e 
a favorable influence upon the digestive organs, though their food 
value ia low. They contain a high percentage of water and onrj 
small percentage of nutrients. Most fruits are eaten raw. ltaw 
fruits are exceedingly valuable to the body because of the fre h 
acids they contain. Cooking softens the cellulose of the fruit and, 
therefore, render- some fruits more easy of digestion. The cooking 

fr lit is of value chiefly for the purpose of preservation. 

Thi drying of fruits. Bruits are dried so that they may be pre 
served for use. Bacteria and molds, which cause the decay of 
fruits, nerd moisture for development and growth, [f the moisture 

in fruits is evaporated, the fruits will keep indefinitely. Dried 

fruits aim^I vegetables can be easily and inexpensively prepared, 

therefore the practice of drying is feasible if one is BO situated that 

the fruit or vegetable can be exposed to the hot sun in a clean, i\ry 
place. When dried fruits are to be used, they must be washed 
ly and soaked for several hours, or overnight, in water, 
bo restore as much water as possible. They should he cooked 

until Bofl in the same Water in which they are soaked. 

/ and preserving.— Simple methods of preservation are 

rable in order that vegetables and fruits be made of value for a 

p.Ti«>d of time than through their ripening season. Canning 

;ie of the methods mosl commonly employed in the home, for it 

asily done, and canned fruits will keep indefinitely. Fruit which 

to be canned is first sterilized by boiling or Bteaming, in order to 

troy all germs and -pores. This can be adequately accomplished 

by boiling 20 minutes, bul a shorter time is sometimes sufficient 

All germs must al destroyed on the can ad on everything 

which come- in contact with the food in order to insure comp 

-. This will lib mire 20 mm or steaming. 

Jars, tops, dipper, and funnel should all be placed in cold water, 
heated until water to the boilhl point, and left in the water 

until just before sealing. It will be Bufficienl to dip the rubbers into 
the boiling water. Ait e fruit has been put into the can, it m 
ealed bo thai il is perfectly air-tig t. In order to do this, it is 
ary to ba d top-, with Dew, pliable rubbers, and to lit 

them tightly. 



48 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

When the jar is to be filled, it should be placed on a board or 
wooden table, or on a cloth wrung out of hot water, and filled to 
overflowing. 

Sugar is not essential to sterilization and is used only to improve 
the flavor. Both fruits and vegetables can be canned without 
sugar. However, fruits canned with a large amount of sugar do not 
spoil readily, for germs develop slowly in a thick sirup. 

Methods of canning. — The simplest method of canning is the open- 
kettle method employed for small, watery fruits, such as berries, 
grapes, tomatoes, etc. The fruit is boiled in an open kettle (which 
permits of the evaporation of some of the water in the fruit) and trans- 
ferred at once to a sterilized jar which is immediately sealed. The 
open-kettle method of canning is not satisfactory for those vegeta- 
bles containing only a small amount of acid, nor is it satisfactory for 
all fruits. A safer method and one that secures more complete steri- 
lization without serious change of flavor in the fruit is that known as 
the cold-pack method. After being transferred to the cans the 
vegetable or fruit is subjected to an additional period of heating of 
considerable length, or to three periods of briefer length on three 
successive days. If the three periods of sterilization are used, the 
process is known as the intermittent method. 

The single process method is described in the recipe for canned 
beets. The intermittent process proves more satisfactory for canned 
beans. 

PRELIMINARY PLAN. 

The teacher should ascertain what fruits and vegetables are most 
abundant and select those that the class can provide for canning. 

Each girl should be asked to bring some vegetable or fruit, some 
granulated sugar, and a jar in which to can her fruit. If the school 
docs not possess enough kettles or saucepans in which to do the cook- 
ing, kettles or saucepans may be borrowed from the homes. 

Only one fruit or one vegetable should be taken up at a time, for the 
preparation necessarily varies slightly and the different methods will 
prove confusing. It is not necessary to confine the choice of fruits 
and vegetables to those mentioned in the recipes included. The 
teacher will find it necessary to base her instruction on the products 
of the particular time and place of the lesson. The principles of can- 
ning should be taken up at some other period, if possible, that the 
cooking lesson may be devoted entirely to practical work. 

RECIPES. 

Canned Tomatoes. 

(Open-kettle method.) 

Scald and peel the tomatoes. Boil 20 minutes. Sterilize the jars, covers, and rub- 

bers. Stand jars on a cloth in a pan of hot water. Fill jars with hot tomatoes, being 

careful to fill to overflowing, and to expel all air bubbles from the jar. Adjust rubber 

and cover. Seal. Allow to cool. Test, label, and set away in cool, dry, dark place. 



LE880NB IN COOK I l!l 

. i - 1 - , 
(Open-kettle in. I 

6 quarts of gra] I quart oi - ar. 1 gill of water. 

Bqueese the pulp of the grapes out of the aku k the pulp 5 minutes and then 

rub through * sieve that is fine enough to hold back tl Put the water, skins, 

and pulp into the preser in : kettle and he ' tli" boiling point. Skim the 

fruit and then add the sugar Boil 15 minutes. I'm into jars as directed 

Sweet grape: ma) be canned with l< apes ma) require more 
sugar. 

( Intermittent pro< 

Use firm, solid fruit. Peel and cut in half. Ii clin • I. they 

may be < aimed whole. Fill each jar as the pea< hi ire i led and add water bo that 

the) will ii< >t discolor. \\ hen tie jar is entirely filled, put on the rubbt rand the lid, but 
don the lid down. Then place the jar. in a rack or folded cloth in a large kettle 

that can be cl — i. covered. Pul in enough wat< r to reach up several inch 

cover the ki ttle, and bring the water to the boiling point. When le>t. lift 1 the lids 
and add sugar, i;' itisto be list d, from one-fourth cup to one cup of sugar fen i ach quart 
of fruit. W hen the boiling poini is again reached, I >< >i ) for I * * minutes Pat ten don a 
the lids and boil for 10 minute- longer. Set in a pis from drafts On two 

give da) a return the jars to the kettle ami boil for ^<» minutes. Do not loosen the lids 
after the jars have b< en Bealed. 

Canned !:<■ t.s. 

(Single process.) 

Boil the beets until tii irths done and the skins come off easily. Re- 

ins and pack the beets in a jar carefully. Cover with boiling water, to 
h one tabl alt is added for each quart, put the top on the jar. bul do 

no( fasten it down. Place the jar on a rack oi a folded cloth in a large kettle thai can 
bed sel i P er into the kettle to reach within 2 inches of the 

top of the jar. cover the kettle, bring to the boiling point, ami boil 15 minutes, then 
a rie- lid on ■>■> arely and boil for one and one-half hours or two hours. Pul a 
ool in a place thai is \r<->- from drafts iter around the jar boils down 

replenish with boiling water, never with cold 

. S 

' Intermit 

Wash and strii . tender Pul ii • r wire baskel and dip into 

boiling water tor id mil Drain, cool slight ind pack in jars, within I inch of 

Add on< fourth i iltf ii pint jar and lill with cold water, 

ontherubb but do not fasten thi n Then place the jars < 

rack or folded cloth ii a lai it can be < overed. Pour enoughs 

kettle to reach up within 2 inches of the top of 
to the boiling point, and boil for LS minutes. Then la U n on the lids and boil for i> 
minute- l the js down replenish it with boilin 

never with cold rater. P 
sive days return the jar- to the kettle without opening the lids and boi] for one hour 

Fanners' Bulletins: N I aimed fruits I j< -1 1 i < • Prepara- 

tion of vegetabl the table; No. tables in the home; No. 521, 

Canning tomatoes at home in club work; I'm iculture 

Bulletin i;l Paper. Extei 

Documents, Governmenl Printing Office. Wasliington. 1>. < Price I uta. 

: .. 23— 17 4 



50 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

Dried Corn. 

Pick the corn early in the morning. Immediately husk, silk, and cut the corn 
from the cob. Spread in a very thin layer on a board, cover with mosquito netting 
which is kept sufficiently elevated so that it will not come in contact with the corn, 
place in the hot sun and leave all day. Before the dew begins to fall take into the 
house and place in an oven that is slightly warm. Leave in the oven over night 
and place out in the sun again the next day. Repeat this process uutil absolutely dry. 

String Beans. 

String beans are hung up to dry and kept for winter use. 

METHOD OF WORK. 

If possible, let each girl can a jar of vegetables or fruit for her own 
home. If the class is large, let girls work in groups of two or three. 

Begin the lesson with a very brief discussion of how to prepare 
fruit for canning. 

Let the girls proceed with the practical work as quickly as possible. 
Demonstrate the method of filling and sealing the jars. 

Assign the care of the jars and the intermittent canning on suc- 
ceeding days to members of the class and hold them responsible 
for the completion of the work. 

The drying of some vegetables can be undertaken at school and 
carefully followed from day to day. It will give the girls an inter- 
esting problem. 

LESSON V. FATS AND OILS. VEGETABLES— (continued). 

Preparation of White Sauce to Serve with Vegetables. How to Boil, Season, 
and Serve such Vegetables as Lima or Butter Beans, String Beans, Co\v= 
peas, Onions, Okra, Cabbage, Collards, Corn, Beets, Turnips, or Carrots. 

SUBJECT MATTER. 

Fats and oils. — Butter and cottonseed oil belong to the class of 
foodstuffs known as fats and oils. They increase the fuel value 
of those dishes to which they are added. 

Fats supply heat and energy to the body in concentrated form. 
For this reason they should be used in limited quantity. Fats 
undergo several changes during the process of digestion, and the 
excessive use of fat interferes with the digestion of other foods and 
throws a large amount of work upon the digestive organs. Cooked 
fats are more difficult for the digestive organs to use than uncooked 
fats. Other foods cooked with the hot fat are rendered difficult of 
digestion. 

Vegetables. — Vegetables should be used when in season, as they 
are always cheapest and at their best then. They keep best if in a 
cold, dry, and dark place. 

It is necessary to cook most vegetables, because they contain 
cellulose and raw starch, which are indigestible. In old or exceed- 
ingly large vegetables the cellulose may be very tough; hence long 



! ! BS0N8 [N COOKING. .",1 

oking is necessary. They should bo cooked only until they are 
bender. Longer cooking may destroy the flavor, render the \. 
table difficult of digestion, and cause the color to change. In very 
young vegetables the cellulose ia delicate, and if young vegetables do 
nol contain much starch they may be eaten raw. 

When rooked vegetables are served they are usually seasoned 
and dressed with butter or oil (foronecup vegetables use | teaspoon 
salt. J teaspoon pepper, and k tablespoon fat <>r oil), or a sauce i^ 
prepared to serve them. 

PRELTMIN LM PLAN. 

[1 may be well to have a preliminary Lesson devoted to the simple 
experiments with flour, liquid, and fat, in order to determine the 

best method Of combining white sauce. However, if the lesson 
period is of sufficient length a few of these experiments can be per- 
formed iu connection with the lesson. 

There should be provided for the lesson some vegetable that 
is unproved by serving with white sauce, and sufficient milk, butter, 

or other fat, flour, and -alt for the sauce and the experiments. Dk- 

3 with the children the fat that is used in their homes in order 
know what i> available. 

Tlie recip.- Bhould be written on the. blackboard before the Lesson 
hour. 

RE< III 9. 

Cowpcas. 

should be rooked booh after gathering, in order to preserve their 

fme Haver <'i«>k tl n cowpeaa (in pod or shelled) in boiling salted water until 

.ison and s*  r . .  !>ried <. hould be Boaked over nigl d <>r 

• boure), then boiled till finder After absorbing water the dried cowpeaa will 

have ii; i . •• until each :up make- nearly two and one hall cups oi cool ed 

: 

Okrn 

The young pods oi okra ahbuld be boiled ii ilted water until tender (about _'<) 
mini i with i tit, and pepper I > l>e added 

if desired 

Coliarc 

A:'' liing collarda thoroughly, add to ■• amount of rapidly boil iter, 

and I) >d for i minutes or until perfectly tender Jt, pepper, and 

butt i '.r serve with white sau< 

i quart onions. 2 table poons butter 

} I up milk. \ U alt. 

\\ h:'>- ]•• j'jx-r 

el onions under cold wati I ok until in boiling watei D minutes), 

changing the Mater at the end oi - r > minul n in 10 minutes. Do n 

ettle while the oni boiling. Drain, and serve with one cup white Hauce, 
or add milk . butter, and pepper, cook ] ."> minutes, and just before serving add salt. 

Serves six 



52 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

< 'abbage. 

Out cabbage into quarters and soak one-half hour in cold salt water to draw out 

insects, '.'hop and cook till tender in a large amount of boiling water 20 minutes. 

Add salt. Leave kettle uncovered. Drain and serve with butter, salt, and pepper 

or with a sauce. Longer cooking renders the cabbage dark in color and difficult of 

digestion. 

( 'arrots. 

Scrape the carrots and cut them into large dice or slices. Add to boiling salted 
water and boil until tender (from 30 to 45 minutes). Drain and season with butter, 
salt, and pepper, or serve with white sauce. 

String Beans. 

String the beans if necessary and cut them into 2-inch lengths. Add to boiling 
water. Boil rapidly with the cover partially off of the saucepan for from one to three 
hours, but be careful not to overcook. Turn into a colander and let cold water run 
upon them. Reheat with seasonings of salt, pepper, and butter or white sauce. 

Salt pork may be boiled with the beans to give them added flavor. 

See Farmers' Bulletin No. 256, "The preparation of vegetables for the table." 

Experiments to show nature of starch. 

1. Mix \ cup cold water quickly with I tablespoon flour. Let stand. 

2. Mix \ cup cold water very slowly with 1 tablespoon flour. Let stand. Compare 
with No. 1. 

'.'•. Mix ^ cup cold water very slowly with 1 tablespoon sugar. Let stand. Com- 
pare with No. 2. 

4. Mix I cup cold water very slowly with 1 tablespoon flour, heat, stirring con- 
stantly. Observe result. 

5. Heat \ cup water; when boiling add 1 tablespoon flour all at once. Stir. 

('. Heat \ cup water; when boiling add 1 tablespoon flour which has been rubbed 
smooth by slowly adding 2 tablespoons cold water to it. Compare with No. 4. 

7. Heat \ cup water; when boiling add 1 tablespoon flour which has been rubbed 
smooth with 1 tablespoon creamed butter. 

8. Heat 1 tablespoon butter, add 1 tablespoon flour, then add slowly \ cup boiling 
water, stirring constantly. 

0. Heat \ cup water; when boiling add slowly to 1 tablespoon flour which has been 
thoroughly mixed with \ cup sugar. Stir till thickened. 

10. Heat 1 tablespoon dry flour in frying pan. Taste. Slowly add \ cup cold 
water, then heat, stirring to keep smooth. Taste. Compare with No. 4. 

White Sauce. 

2 tablespoons butter or other fat. 1 teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons flour. & teaspoon pepper. 

1 cup milk (heated). 

Sufficient for 1 pint vegetables. 

First method. — Heat the butter. When it bubbles add flour and seasoning, mix 
well, add hot milk gradually, stir constantly, and allow the mixture to thicken arid 
bubble each time before adding another portion of milk. 

After the milk has been added, cook 10 minutes, stirring frequently. Serve hot, 
over hot vegetables. 

Second method. — Scald the milk, cream tin; cold butter by stirring with a spoon 
until soft. Add the flour to the softened butter and stir until smooth; then add hot 
milk; cook over water for \ hour, stirring occasionally; add seasoning and serve. 



i i B8ON8 IN COOK 1 

II •! a., r il<l iitn- half the milk, add ri m lining cold milk bIowI) t<> flour; 

stir this mixture into hot milk and cook J hour i iter Btin then 

add noanoninc ami butter and stir until buttei i leltcd. Serve. 

METHOD <>l WORK. 

Ki'vifw facts on boiling vegetables learned in previous lesson. 
Have pupils put water on to boD ami prepare vegetable for cooking. 
If experiments an- to he made, they can he performed while ve 
tables are cooking. It' they have been prepared previously, they 
can be reviewed in discussion at tin- time. Prepare while saner bj 
demonstration, using the method which Beems most practical. 
Bave vegetables drained, dried, ami added to white sauce. When 

well-heated, - 

n*. 

What i the boiling of vegetables did we learn in the 1 mi? 

I toea the \ • getable thai we are to conk to-<lay differ in any marked way from th 

Iced before? Can we follow the same rule in cooking it? 
Can we add the flour directly to the cold milk? To hot milk? 

ill we combine the white sauce? 
With what nil. rallies can white sauce be used? 

Ho nail Bach pupil should prepare son* table and serve it with 

white sauce before the next lesson. 

LESSON VI. CERE \i S. 

Kinds, Composition! Care, and General Rules for Cooking Cereals. Oat- 
meal, Cracked Wheat, Hominj Grits, Corn-meal Mush, Rice. F : ruits to 
Serve with Cereals Stewed Prunes, Stewed Apples, or Apple Sain... 

SUBJECT M \ l'l i 

The term "cereals" is applied to the cultivated grasses nee. 
wheat, corn, rye., oats, and buckwheat. They are widely grown 
throughout the temperate /our and are prepared m varied forms for 

food. ( '<■■■ ils contain a high per cent of standi and a low per 

e.-iit of water, with varying proportions <>f mineral matter and fat. 

In addition to these four foodstuffs already studied, cereals contain 

mail amount of another foodstuff known as protein, a muscle- 

building material. For the most pari the cereals contain a large 

amount of cellulose, which is broken up during the pro >aTa- 

□ for mar! I requires long coo / before read} for use by the 

body. The digestibility <>f the. cereal- depends upon the amount of 

cellulose which they contain and the thoroughness <>f cooking. 
Cereals are palatable ami they arc valuable because they can be 
blended in various ways with other su >sf in cooking. They are 

aficial to the body bet l< aechanically on the digestive 

organs them. The cereal is made moi . b; 

serving h or cooked fruit as an accompaniment. 



54 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

PRELIMINARY PLAN. 

The cereals should be discussed in a nature study or geography 
lesson, and two or three kinds that are commonly used should be 
brought from the homes by the girls. If cereals are not commonly 
used as breakfast foods, the lesson can be a means of introducing 
them. Some girls should bring a little milk and sugar to serve with 
the cooked cereal. Apples or prunes should be brought to cook and 
serve with the cereal. 

RECIPES. 

Oatmeal. 

3 cups boiling water. 1 cup oatmeal. 
1 teaspoon salt. 

Add oatmeal slowly to boiling salted water. 

Boil 10 minutes, stirring constantly, then cook slowly, preferably over water, at 

least one and one-half hours longer; the flavor is developed by longer cooking. 

Serves six. 

Cracked Wheat. 

Follow recipe for oatmeal, using 1 cup cracked wheat. 

Hominy Grits. 

Follow recipe for oatmeal, using 1 cup hominy grits. 

Corn-meal Mush. 

4 cups boiling water. 1 cup corn meal. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Add corn meal slowly to boiling salted water. 

Boil 10 minutes, stirring constantly, then cook slowly three hours longer, preferably 

over water. Servos 6 to 8. 

Boiled Rice. 

3 quarts boiling water. 1 cup rice. 

2 teaspoons salt. 

Pick rice over carefully and wash thoroughly. Add it so gradually to the boiling 
salted water that the water will not stop boiling. Partly cover and cook 20 minutes, 
or until the grains are soft; turn into a colander and pour cold water through it, drain, 
dry, and reheat in hot oven with door open. Serve hot as a vegetable or as a simple 
dessert with cream and sugar. Serves f> to 8. 

Stewed Prunes. 

§ pound prunes. 1 quart cold water. 

Wash the prunes in two or three waters, then soak them in cold water for several 
hours. Heat them in the water in which they are soaked, and cook slowly until 
tender, an hour or more. Serves 6 to 8. 

Stewed Apples. 

10 apples. £ cup sugar, 

f cup water. 

Cook sugar and water together until it boils. 

Wash, pare, and cut apples into quarters; core, and slice quarters lengthwise into 
[-inch slices; put apple slices into boiling sirup and cook slowly until tender. Re- 
move from sirup at once and let sirup boil down to thicken. 



II BSONS I N O0< >K I N < ; . .")."> 

.!/>/>// Saw 
id appl< i cup sugar 

Up 9 lI'T. 

Wipe, quarter, core, and pan- sour apples; :i<i.l the watei and cook until appli 
ften; add the Bugar and flavoring, cook until apples are 7ery Boft, then 
through a strainer and l>« x ar well. Berv< 10. 

Farmers' Bulletin* No 249, Cereal Breakfast Poods; No. 5< n Meal 

I and Ways of I sing It I oited States Department of Agriculture, Bulletin l_'.'i 
I 'n jf< •-- iuiial Paper, Extension course in Vegetable Poods. Supl <>f Documei 
Government Printing Office, Washington, I) C 

METHOD OF WORK. 

As soon as the class meets discuss the recipes briefly and pul the 
on to cook at once. Prepare the fruit. While the long cook- 
ing of tlu 1 cereal is in progress discuss the composition, food value, 

and met hods of using cereals. Then go on with another lesson and 

call the class together for serving later in the day. Serve the fruit 

and cereals tOget her. 

LESSON VII. CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS (Reviewed). 

SUBJECT MATTER. 

Those food- which build up and repair the tissues of the body are 
called protein foods, muscle builders, or flesh formers. Meat, fish, 
poultry, eggs, cheese, milk, cereals, legumes, and nuts arc: classed as 
protein f<><>< ; 

Those food- which serve Solely as fuel for the body providing heat. 

anil energy air classed under two groups: The carbohydrates (si. 
and Btarches), which the body is able to use in relatively large quan- 
tities; and the fat- and oils, which the body can not US6 in such 

large quantities, but which yield a large amount of heat and energy. 
Protein also Berves as fuel, though ti 3ue building is regarded as its 

Bpecial function. 9 and starch. are abundant in fruits and 

ibles. and oils are found in meats, fish, milk, and in some 

.•tabic foods. Heat-giving food may be stored m the body as 

fatty tissue. 

Mineral compound- mu-t be present in our Pood to help in the I 
ulation of the body pro and to enter into the composition of 

the structure and the fluids of the body. Mineral compound 

best supplied by the fresh green vegetables, fruits, and milk. 

Water is absolute) otial to the body ami is present in large 

quantity in many foods, and is combined frith many other foods 

during tie- processes of cookinj 

One or more of the foodstuffs sometimes predominate in a single 
food. For example, rice is almost entirely carbohydrate; butter 






THREE SHOBT COURS1 - IN HOME M \KI 



almost pure fat. Occasionall) we find a f» >< <»l that contains all the 
five groups <>f food principles. Milk is an example of such a 
and milk contains all five food principles in such proportion as to 
supply nil the nourishment which the babj needs during the early 
months of its life. As the bab} gr iws older, foods rich in carbohy- 
drates musl be added to the diet in order to supply a sufficient 
amount of energy for activity. Wheal contains all that the body 
needs for nourishment except for the absence of water. This lacl 
usually remedied by the addition (>( water when cooking. 



ein foods. 



Meats. 
Fish. 
Poultry. 
Eggs. 

( 'lie 

Milk. 

("en 'Ills. 

Wh« 
Oatmeal. 

I  m 

I 

Beans. 

i enlils. 

Peanuts. 
Nuts. 



Fat foods. 



i Ml. 

ter. 

l.unl. 

id oil. 

Nuts. 
colate. 



( 'arbohydraU foods. 

Sugar. 
Honey. 

S) nip. 

Winter vegetal 
Potati • 

1 prepared 
lis. 

II. i 
Frui 

Pre! 

Bread. 

hi. 
Jell 

Dried fruits. 
< landy. 

ineral matter. 



Frui 

Vegetal 

Spinach. 
Tomat< 
Oni 

Turnip to] 
I auliflower. 
Cereals. 

its and other coarse preparatii 

Choice <>f food. — Our diet must be carefully chosen to give a needed 
variety and to properly combine the foods so that we may have the 
right amount of all the foodstuffs. Each meal should contain some 
protein food, some fats or carbohydrates, some mineral matter, and 
water. All five forms of foodstuffs musl occur in the da\ 
The greater part of the water v huh the body needs should be taken 
between meals. 

See Farmers' Bulletins: No. 142, Principles of nutrition and nutritive rule. 
food; No. 712. School lunches; No. 808, How to select foods No I. Whal the body 
needs 



LESSONS IN COOKING. 57 

METHOD OF WORK. 

Review the foods discussed in the previous lessons and sum up 
the classification of foods, being sure that the pupils can name com- 
mon examples of each. Discuss simple combinations for the differ- 
ent meals, using dishes already prepared in the course and creating 
an interest in other recipes to be prepared in the succeeding lessons. 

LESSON VIII. THE PLANNING AND SERVING OF MEALS. 

SUBJECT MATTER. 

Experience has shown that some foods are more acceptable at one 
time of day than other foods, and that foods are more pleasing in 
certain combinations than in others. The choice of food will also 
depend upon the season of the year. For example, a breakfast is 
made up of simple foods that are not highly seasoned nor subjected 
to elaborate methods of cooking. A fruit, a cereal, and bread, with 
possibly eggs or meat, are served at breakfast. A beverage, usually 
hot, is added to breakfast by most people. 

Fundamentally, dinner consists of a hot meat or other protein dish 
with one or two vegetables. Soup, salad, and a sweet dessert are 
often served with the dinner. The soup is served before the meat 
course and the salad and dessert follow the meat course. The dessert 
may be a fruit, a cooky, or other pastry, a pudding or a frozen dish. 

Lunch or supper may be a very simple meal, consisting of a soup 
with crackers, one protein dish (eggs, milk, or meat) with bread and 
stewed fruit, or a salad with a simple dessert. 

EXAMPLES OF WELL-CHOSEX MENUS. 

Breakfast. 

No. I. Applesauce. Hominy or oatmeal. 

Sausage or bacon . Milk toast. 

No. II. Baked apples. Cracked wheat. 

Eggs in the shell. Corn muffins. 

No. III. Stewed figs or berries. Cornmeal mush. 

Poached eggs. 1 Toast. 

Dinner. 

No. I. Pork chops. Fried apples. Mashed turnips. 

Baked sweet potatoes. Bread. 

Rice pudding. 
No. II. Beef or mutton stew. Spinach or turnip tops. 

Biscuits. Cornstarch pudding. 

No. III. Baked beans or cowpeas. Creamed cabbage or collards. 

Fried sweet potatoes. Corn dodgers. 

Grape sauce. 
Supper. 

No. I. Egg corn pone. Buttermilk or sweet milk. 

Stewed apricots or other fruit. Peanut cookies. 

No. II. Omelet. Creamed potatoes. < orn bread. 

Fresh fruit. 
No. III. Cream of carrot soup. Cottage cheese. 

Biscuits. Sirup. 

See Farmers' Bulletins: No. 717, Food for young children; No. 808, How to select 
foods; No. I, What the body needs. 

1 Eggs should be omitted from the breakfast menu if they are not easily obtainable. 



58 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

The table should always be neatly set with individual places 
arranged for each one who is to partake of the meal. Each place should 
be wide enough for a plate with a knife and spoon at the right and a 
fork at the left. A tumbler should be placed at the point of the 
knife and a napkin at the left of the fork. Everything placed on the 
table should be perfectly clean, the napkin should be neatly folded, 
and all the articles should be uniformly arranged to give a neat ap- 
pearance to the table. A flower or plant in the center of the table 
will add to its attractiveness. Salt, pepper, sugar, vinegar, and any- 
thing of the sort that may be needed with the meal should be arranged 
near the center of the table where it can be easily reached. Fresh 
water should be poured into the tumblers just before the meal is 
served. The bread, butter, etc., can be placed on the table several 
minutes before the meal is announced, but the hot dishes should be 
placed immediately before the family is seated. 

PRELIMINARY PLAN. 

If Lesson VI, entitled "Setting and Clearing the Table" (as out- 
lined in the course on the care of the home), has been given, this les- 
son can be devoted to what to serve and how to serve it, or this les- 
son can precede the lesson on table service. The manner of serving 
can be demonstrated in the next lesson in connection with the course 
in the care of the home. 

Simple equipment for family service will be required if the form of 
serving is to be taken up. For class practice a table for four can be 
arranged. This will necessitate a table cover, five or more dinner 
plates, four butter dishes or plates, four tumblers, four cups and 
saucers, four knives, four forks, four teaspoons, four napkins, a platter, 
one serving spoon, and one serving fork. 

METHOD OF WORK. 

Discuss meal service both from the standpoint of choice and com- 
bination of foods and from the method of service. Have the class 
plan one meal, then go through the form of serving that meal at a 
table. In the absence of a table the top of the desks can be used for a 
table. Later in the course the teacher should plan to combine this 
lesson with a cooking lesson and have the food served. In each cook- 
ing lesson suggestions for the service of the food should be made and 
each cooked dish should be carefully served. Interest in this lesson 
may be increased by allowing the children to make original menus, 
and if they are having some lessons in drawing, simple menu cards 
may be planned and executed. 



\s IN COOKING. 59 

I BSSON IX. Ylll K. 

Car*.', Cost, and Pood Value ol Milk. Value and l sc «>i Sour Milk Cot* 
tau^' Cheese, Clabber. Rice <>r Cornstarch Pudding Plain, Caramel, or 
Chocolate 

si nil < i \i \ i 111:. 

Milk contains all the foodstuffs which the body requires, and there- 
fore is capable <>f sustaining life for comparatively long periods, ft 

me of the most important protein foods, bul it contains so smaii a 
criit of carbohydrate (milk Bugar) thai for the adult if must be 
supplemented wit h carbohydrate foods. For the baby, milk is a per 

foci food, and it is a valuable adjunct to the diet of alj children. 
One quart of milk should be allowed for the diet of cadi child daily 
after the twelfth month. The diet of the adult can well he supple- 
mented by the use of milk. The greatesl care should be exercised to 
protect niiJk from dust and dirt, for it is easily contaminated and may 
lie mean- of carrying disease germs to the body. The changes 
which milk undergoes when BOUling do not render it harmful to t in- 
body. For many people buttermilk is more easj of digestion than 
niJk, because of the changes produced by souring and the absence 
of fat. Sour milk is of value in cooking, producing a tender bread 
which can readily be made light by the addition of sods one teaspoon 
ofsoda to 1 pint of sour milk that has clabbered. 

I u the preparation of cheese, the whey is separated from the curds, 
thu tcting most of the water, sugar, and salts, and leaving a Bub- 

Btance rich in protein and fat. Ch "se is of \ -ihie in cooking, for it 

increases the food value of those foods t<> which it is added. 

PRELIMINARY PI \ \ . 

The teacher should make inquiries a few days in advance to be Bure 
thai ! quart of sour milk can be secured, and when it is brou 
she should examine it to see that it is in proper condition to make c 
tage cheese. She should arrange to have about i quart of sweet 
milk brought and such other supplii re necessary for the pudding. 

Opportunity <an be found to discuss the use of left-over cereal by 
the preparation of the rice pudding, if the teacher provides some cold 

»ked rice for the Lesson. In the absence <»f cold rice, the corn- 
starch pudding can be prepared. 

1:1 I fl'KS. 

Heat sour milk .-lowly until the winy ri • |>, poUX the winy off, put tho 

curd in a bag and lei it drip for aii hours with o I'm the curd into a 

bowl and Lr> .il: fine with a wooden Bpoon; • nth Bait, are', mix in in a paste with 

a little cream or batter. Mold into balls, if d< ired, and keep in i place. (It is 

best when Freeh.) 

See Farmer'e Bulletin No :w,.i, The Use of Milk a* Pood; N" ;-'.'. ' lc<--i- and its 
! inomical I Fsea in the Di 



gO THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

Rice Pudding. 

\ cup boiled rice. \ cup sugar. 

2 cups milk. \ teaspoon salt. 

2 e gp S I teaspoon vanilla. 

Scald the milk and add the rice, heat until rice is soft; add well-beaten yoK \ < 
eggs, sugar, and salt; cook three minutes, over water; remove from fire; add tho well- 
beaten whites and flavoring, and serve cold. Serves 8. 

Cornstarch Pudding. 

i cup sugar. 3 cups milk. 

5 tablespoons cornstarch, or % cup 

flour. 1 egg. 

1 teaspoon vanilla, or other flavoring. 
Combine sugar and cornstarch thoroughly. Add one cup cold milk and stir until 
smooth Heat remainder of the milk, add cornstarch mixture slowly and stir until 
it begins to thicken. Continue cooking over hot water 20 minutes. Beat egg web. 
add hot pudding slowly, strain, and cool. Serve with milk or cream and sugar. (Egg 
may be omitted, if desired.) Serves 8. 

For chocolate cornstarch pudding, use J cup sugar additional and two squares 
Baker's chocolate. Melt chocolate carefully, add sugar, and add to cornstarch mix- 
ture. , ... 

For caramel cornstarch pudding, use two cups brown sugar and one cup boiling 
water. Heat sugar until it becomes a light-brown liquid; add boiling water and stir 
until sugar is all dissolved. Let cool; then add to cornstarch mixture. 

METHOD OF WORK. 

As soon as class meets demonstrate the method of making cottage 
cheese. Show separation of curd and whey by adding vinegar or 
lemon juice to sweet milk. While cheese is draining, make assign- 
ments and have the rice or cornstarch pudding made. 

Emphasize the use of protein foods in this lesson and in those fol- 
lowing. 

Discuss food value of milk and its use in cooking. Discuss the 
food value and purposes for which skimmed milk and sour milk can 
be used in cooking. 

Use the cottage cheese and the pudding for the school lunch. 

LESSON X. SOUPS. 

Cream Soups. Cream of carrot, potato, or onion soup, green pea soup or 
cowpea soup. Toast, croutons, or crisp crackers to serve with soup. 

SUBJECT MATTER. 

Cream soups.— -The strained pulp of cooked vegetables, greens, or 
cereals, with an equal portion of thin white sauce, is the basis for 

cream soups. . 1 

A binding of butter and flour is used to prevent a separation of tne 
thicker and the thinner parts of soup. This is combined as for white 
sauce and poured into the rest of the hot liquid just before the soup 
is to be served. The soup should not be allowed to boil after the 
vegetable pulp and milk have been combined, but kept hot over hot 



* ater The •"' il1 present in nearly all tables is s »rj apt to pro- 
duce n curdling in the milk if too nig a temperature a maintained 
after they are combined. 
Two tablespoons of flour to each quart of Boup is a good propor- 
to observe for thickening all tble soups that are not of a 

starchy nature; half that amount will be sufficient for roup prepared 
from a \<t\ Btarchj table. 

Attractive cream aoups can be prepared from left-over vegetables 

•mbination of flavors may gh h s . 

Al ' nsp crackers, croutoi ip stick., or bread 

sticks are served as accompaniments with cream soups and are valua- 

because they ue< essitate thorough mastication, thus inducin ; the 

 of the saliva and aiding in the digestion of the starchy ingredients 

<>f the soup. 

I'KI i.IMIN \l:V PL \N. 

The teacher should Becure a vegetable that the girls have for .. 

1,1 th(Mr own ttom for the soup, and crackers or bread to 

with the soup. 

If dried peas are used, they should be put to soak the night before 
Jl! "l put on to cook early in the morning. 

It will be well to have the cooking oft! e carrots begun before the 

iea8on P 61 ™ 1 - H ,1 "' carrots are cut up in small pieces, they will 
cook more quickly. 

1:1 t ii 

Cr* i jK 

- 1 "-' 1 i'. quart* hot milk. 

: " 21 It. 

tour. pepper. 

r<> tender in enough boilii] hen rub all through 

a strainer u it! n 

U buttei idd Sour and then thecamri mixture, and when il boils wall, add hot 
milk and a 

m ofPotai. 
l pint milk or milk and water bleepoon Hour. 

1 t, 

'**■ per 

ichopj 
ater. Add the chop] . Boil the es until 

,,nu "- ■' dd the hot milk. Staah Melt the butter, add the flour and 

nd the potato mixture slowly. ., minutes; add the chopped 
and serve a 

2 teaspoons salt, 
•nabutt pepper 

i cup Hour. I .,uart rnn 

■p or slice onions, add the hot button, and fry to a red broan Add Hour and 
seasonings and cook until slightly brown. Add hot liquid k to a creamy 

consistency. Strain reheat, and serve. 



£2 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

Green Pea Soup. 
1 pint or 1 can peas. 2 tablespoons flour. 

1 quart water. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 pint milk or cream. A teaspoon white pepper. 

2 tablespoons butter. 1 teaspoon sugar. 

Wash the peas and cook until soft in one quart of boiling water. Mash them in the 
water in which they were cooked, strain, and add the milk or cream; melt butter add 
flour and seasoning, then the liquid, and cook until of creamy consistency. If the 
peas are fresh, some of the pods may be cooked with them. Serves 8. 

Pea Soup. 

1 cup split peas or cowpeas. 3 tablespoons flour. 
2^ quarts water. H teaspoons salt. 

2 tablespoons chopped onion. £ teaspoon pepper. 

3 tablespoons butter. 1 pint milk . 

Wash the peas and soak them over night in cold water; drain and rinse thoroughly; 
add 2* quarts of cold water and the onion; cook slowly until soft; rub through a strainer 
and acid the remainder of the liquid; melt butter, add flour and seasonings, then hot 
milk with the liquid from the peas, and cook until it is like thick cream. Cooking a 
ham bone with the soup improves the flavor. Serves 6 to 8. 

Toast. 

Cut stale bread into slices one-fourth inch thick; put on the toaster or fork, move 
gently over the heat until dry, then brown by placing nearer the heat, turning con- 
stantly. Bread may be dried in oven before toasting. Hot milk may be poured 

over drv toast. 

Croutons. 

Cut stale bread into one-half-inch cubes and brown in the oven. 

Crisp Crackers. 
Put crackers in oven for a few minutes or split and butter thick crackers and brown 
in a hot oven; serve with soup. 

METHOD OF WORK. 

Devote a few minutes to a discussion of cream soups and a review 
of the cooking of vegetables and white sauce. 

Divide the work among the members of the class, assigning enough 
to each girl to keep her busy and arranging the work so that the 
soup and its accompaniments will be ready for serving at the same 

time. „„ 

LESSON XI. EGGS. 

Food value and general rules for cooking eggs. Cooked in shell, poached, 

scrambled, and omelet. 

SUBJECT MATTER. 

Eggs are a very valuable food because of the large amount of 
protein and fat they contain. Though lacking in carbohydrates they 
furnish material for building up the muscles and provide heat and 
energy to the body. If cooked at a low temperature, eggs are very 



I BS80N8 1\ COOKING. go 

easUy and y«y completely digested. C bined with other foods thev 

f°™ M thickening (for sauces and soup and as a means of making 
batters light (popoveis and sponge cake . They add flavor and mIot 
:11 "' increase the nutritive rahie of other I la. 

1 '•" 1 "' v Bulletin No gsand thei . <m1 . 

PRWf.lMTW \i:> PL \n . 

The lesson oneggs furnishes one of the besl opportunities ... teach 
he muscle-building foods, tf eggs arescarce, it maybe well to give this 
esson at some other time in the course. Each pupil should be asked 
" bring an egg; one or two should bring a little milk; and enough 
breai ishould be pro. tded ... toast for the poached eggs. The tea, 
"■" '"" undertake ... give too many recipes in this lesson bul 
• , i " M "'> ■" acquaint the girls with a sufficient rarietj of ways of 
okmg eggs to make egg cookery interesting. A, moderate tempera- 
ture for cooking eggs should be emphasized. 

BEOIPBS. 
Soft-Cooked Egg*. 

I, ' lili " sufficient to cover, remove from the fire  ,i 

them to stand from 5 to 8 minut ' 

I III,- | ,,g 8- 

' cold- water, beat, and when I be water boils, reduce beat and lei them 
md 20 minute, with water just below the boiling poix^then puUnto «ld w^te" 

Poach* a 

, Kr " ;,k ,"•"■'' -r ,..„,,„llv. slip I ...,. into boiling ntol ,|,, r ... 

'" ..in,,,,..,,,, ,„„„,,,. ,,„,. d , „. , v , , 

""'"-' - k '.* '" «W I**«d« I ., 

Bah d  

tea buttered baking dish with butt tabs, break eggs in diahwithoul 

add ^«*|w~-ltt or cream for « iu ™ 

pepper, and sprinkle with grated cheese, if desired; or tl may be lined with 

cold mashed potatoe B ke in a mode. 

( beamed Eggs 

3 hard cooked -■ g -M — : 

l cup iii<'<liuin whiU 

'; ,,, 1 U "7 1 "" and add hard cooked . cu( in bah | .. ., , 

and when hoi servi ' ' • 

bites and yolks, chop whites 6ne, add I itc sauce and when hoi 



04 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

Cream// Omelet. 

1 egg. Pepper. 

\ teaspoon salt. i teaspoon butter. 

1 tablespoon milk. 
Beat egg slightly, add milk and seasonings; put butter in hot omelet pan, when 
melted turn in the mixture; as it cooks draw the edges toward the center until the 
whole is of a creamy consistency; brown qiuckly underneath - fold and turn onto a 
hot platter. Serve at once. Serves 1. 

Scrambled Eggs. 

Double the quantity of milk given for creamy omelet and stir all the time while 

rooking 

Foamy Omelet. 1 

1 egg. 1 tablespoon milk or water. 

£ teaspoon salt. \ teaspoon butter. 

Cayenne or white pepper. 

Beat the yolk of the egg until creamy, add seasoning and milk; beat the white 
until stiff, but not dry, cut and fold into the yolk carefully; heat an omelet pan, rub 
bottom and sides with the butter, turn in the omelet, spread it evenly on the pan. 
Cook gently over heat until omelet is set and evenly browned underneath; put it 
into a hot oven for a few minutes to dry slightly on top; fold and serve immediately. 
Serves 1. 

METHOD OF WORK. 

Devote one-half the class period to a discussion of the structure 
of the egg and the effect of heat upon it. Use simple experiments or 
watch the poached egg to make a study of the changes produced in 
the egg by heat. If girls are sufficiently experienced, have them 
work together in small groups, first scrambling an egg, then making 
an omelet. Demonstrate the cooking of the omelet before the entire 
class. Serve the egg dishes carefully while hot. 

LESSON XII. SIMPLE DESSERTS— CUSTARDS. 

SUBJECT MATTER. 

A custard is a combination of eggs and milk, usually sweetened 
and flavored and either steamed or baked as cup custard, or cooked 
in a double boiler as soft custard. The whole egg may be used or 
the yolks alone. The yolks make a smoother, richer custard. 

The egg must be thoroughly mixed, but not beaten light, the sugar 
and salt added and the milk scalded and stirred in slowly. The 
custard must be strained through a fine sieve and cooked at a moder- 
ate temperature. It is desirable to strain a custard in order to 
remove the bits of membrane present from about the yolk. The 
cup custard should be strained before cooking, the soft custard may 
be strained after cooking. 

1 The omelet recipes given are for individual portions. To make a large omelet, multiply quantity ol 
each ingredient by number of eggs used. The best results will be obtained by making an omelet of not 
more than four eggs, as larger omolets are difficult to cook thoroughly and to handle well. A two-egg 
omelet will serve three people. A four-egg omelet will serve six people. 



KS IN CO 

del^T* 1 ? " "£"* °7 W Water ' ; « »fced constanth until 

done. When done, the froth disappea. from the surface the cus 

d is thickened and , the peon d side ",,„, b] 

, V ,: - "' '"': rd is done when it b, mes set and when 

Ivor knife will come out clean i utting it. 



l 6 
UMINARY PLAN. 



This Lesson will furnish opportunity For review of milk and e, 
The pupils can plan to bring the necessary materials fromtheirl 

BECIP] 

' , '" :u; ■■>'■ rteaep 

"* 2tabl. : anelor 

f™« ix them thoroughly; add. 

v.: 1 ;:,;:::;,;;. 

— «*-' ,,„,•„„„ 

8 ;■ < 

lit. 

*' :r 

» ! 

I "~ >ltod tothehotmilk. 6 . 

 / 

P] 

■y"W*.*M|* ad continue besting Dron in 

large spoonfuls on I Ben -  ' 

METHOD OJ v.i.kk. 

It may be possible to teach two , three recipes in this lesson 
^e cup custard can be pul into the oven while the sof 1 custard or 
floating island is being made. Serve at the school lunch 

M619°-bl-li.. 23—17 5* 



66 THREE' SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

LESSON XIII. BATTERS. 

Corn Bread and Hoecake. 

SUBJECT MATTER. 

Batters. — Batters are mixtures of flour or meal and a liquid, with 
salt or sugar to give flavor, butter to make tender, and air or gas to 
make light. 

One scant measure of liquid is used with one measure of flour for 
thin or pour batter. One measure of liquid is used with two measures 
of flour for a thick cake or drop batter. One measure of liquid is 
used with three measures of flour for a soft or bread dough. One 
measure of liquid is used with four measures of flour for a stiff or 
pastry dough. 

Before mixing a batter the oven or griddle should be at the proper 
temperature, with the fire well regulated and in good condition. The 
oven should be tested by putting in a piece of white paper or two 
tablespoons flour which should brown in three minutes. The pans 
should be prepared by greasing with lard, salt pork, or beef dripping. 
All materials should be measured and ready before beginning to com- 
bine ingredients. When the batter has been combined and beaten 
until smooth, it should be baked at once. 

PRELIMINARY PLAN. 

The teacher will be better prepared to give the lessons on batters 
if she first acquaints herself with the kinds of breads that are used 
in the homes and the methods followed in their preparation. The 
simple general methods of preparing batters should be taught. The 
teacher should not attempt the preparation of more than one or two 
batters in the lesson. Corn bread and hoecake can be made in the 
same lesson, since the first is made in the oven and the second cooked 
on a griddle on top of the stove. 

RECIPES. 

Corn Bread. 



1 cup scalded milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

£ cup white corn meal. 



Add salt to corn meal and pour the milk on gradually. Turn into a well-greased 
shallow pan to the depth of one-fourth inch. Bake in a moderate oven until crisp. 

Hoecake. 

L cup white corn meal. % teaspoonful salt. 

Boiling milk or water enough to scald. 

Make the batter thick enough not to spread when put on the griddle. Grease the 
griddle with salt pork, drop the mixture on with a large spoon. Pat the cakes out till 
about half an inch thick; cook them slowly, and when browned put a bit of butter 
on the top of each cake and turn it over. Long cooking is desirable, but be careful 
that they do not bum. 



\> IN COOK] c,7 

mi i HDD or w oi:k. 

Discuss battels briefly. Have all measurements made, fire regu- 
lated, pans prepared, etc. Demonstrate combining of earn bread, 
] )Ut " in the oven, and while it is cooking demons combining 

and cooking of hoecake. Serve thee breads nicely after tin 
i teked. 

LESSON XIV. BATTERS continued. 
I Corn Pone or Corn Muffini Baking Powder Biscuits. 
SUBJECT .mai i i i;. 

M, ihn,ls of making blatters tight.- Batters are made lighl by beating 
11 "' 1Mt " them, by adding eggs into which air has been beaten, or by 

jlinggas in the batter. Gas is secured by using soda and s 
milk in a batter (! teaspoon of soda to i pint of sour milk . or soda 
within L teaspoon of soda to 1 cup of molasses , orsodawith 

.in of tartar (1 teaspoon of soda with 2 Blightly rounding teaspoons 
in of tartar). The so<la should }»c combined well 
dry ingredients, then the sour milk or molasses added, the 
whole beaten up quickly mid baked at one 

Baking powder is a preparation containing -"da mid cream of 
tartar, and can be used in place of soda if sweet milk is us< d. Two 
I teaspoons of baking powder should be used with one cup of 
Sour. 

PBELTMIXABY PLAN. 

Thi atinuation of the lesson on b I e should 

be taken not to undertake more than can be d<>n<> nicely in time 
available. 

RECIPES. 

l cup white '■.,!•! meal. I 

l pi milk. 

1 ! l tabli ;■ on melted butter.lai a. 

[f sweet milk i omit the soda and uae 2 level t baking Sift 

il. salt, and soda, add the egg well , then the milk i t.-.i 

luim-r Beat than hallow, well greased di 

granite, or iron, a! ,,i i, , ;., -,, , . .. , , n i„ llteiS Uj a ] ..,,.. 

p flour. 

MeeJ. p milk. 

i a baking powder. 
I i-.M.^poonsu. 21 

Mix and sift dry in^edients. Add eg? and milk I. far. Add melted 

buUerlast. Bake in gem pane or mutlin tii Serves E 






68 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

Baking-Powckr Biscuits. 

2 cups flour. 2 tablespoons fat. 

4 teaspoons baking powder. | to 1 cup milk or water. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Mix dry ingredients, chop fat into the flour with a knife, slowly add sufficient milk 
to make a dough not too soft to be handled. Toss and roll dough gently on a slightly 
floured board, and cut into small biscuits. Moisten tops with a little milk. Handle 
dough quickly, lightly, and as little as possible. Place on a buttered sheet. Bake 
in a hot oven till brown, from 12 to 15 minutes. Either white or whole wheat flour 
may be used for biscuit. Serves 6 to 8. Oven test — oven should be hot enough to 
color a piece of unglazed white paper to golden brown in one minute. 

Soda Biscuits. 

1 pint flour. I teaspoon salt. 

2 teaspoon soda (scant). 1 cup sour milk (scant). 
2 tablespoons shortening (lard or other 

fat). 

Proceed as for baking-powder biscuits. 

If the ^our milk is not thich enough to clabber, it will not contain sufficient acid 
to neutralize the soda and the biscuits will be yellow and bitter. To avoid this, 
cream of tartar can be combined with the soda (1 teaspoonful). If there is no cream 
of tartar at hand, it will be wise to use the recipe for baking-powder biscuits. 

METHOD OF WORK. 

Have oven and pans prepared and all measurements made. 
Demonstrate the combining of the corn pone, and while that is 
baking, demonstrate the combining of the biscuits. Have one girl 
take charge of the baking of the corn pone and another girl take 
charge of the baking of the biscuits. When the breads are done, 
have the girls sit down and serve them to one another, or to all the 
pupils at the school lunch hour. 

LESSON XV. MEAT. 

Composition and food value. How to make tough cuts of meat palatable. 
Pork chops with fried apples. Beef or mutton stew with vegetables and 
dumplings. Rabbit stew. Bacon. 

SUBJECT MATTER. 

Meats arc rich in protein and usually in fats, but are lacking in 
the carbohydrates. They build up the muscular tissue, furnish 
heat and energy, are more stimulating and strengthening than any 
other food, and satisfy hunger for a greater length of time. For the 
most part, meats are a very expensive food. One can not perform 
more labor by use of a meat diet than on a diet of vegetable foods. 
Those who use large quantities of meat in their diet suffer from 
many disturbances of the system. Hence, meats should form a 
very small part of the diet. The cuts of meat that come from those 
portions of the animal's body that are much exercised are tough, 
owing to the development of the fibers, but they contain a high per- 



l , B80K8 IN i 

oen if nutrition. The fleeh of chickens, turki d other fowls 

i- \cry Dutritious and is easily digested, if not t<«> fat. In Idor 

birds it may become vei 5 tough. 
The flavor of mi developed 1>> cooking. Dry heat develops 

flavor, hence the tender cuts arc cooked by the pr< 
known as broiling and roasting. Tough cuts of meat require Long, 
slow cooking in moist heat, hence they are prepared in the form <>f 
vs ami pot i" • used in meat  ips. 

PRELIMINARY , I SS< >N. 

After the teacher has found <»ut what meats arc used in the homes 
or what they can afford to use, Bhe should determine upon a recipe 
that will help to make the meat palatable, digestible, and attractive. 
If it can I"- prepared as a stew, : : hould use a recipe in which 
vegetables are also used, and if possible have dumplings prepared to 
serve with the meat, as a review <>f the lesson on batter . 

BE( ;: 

Beef or SI 

2 lbs. beef or mutton. 4po1 it in J-inchsli 

1 quart wat I '• .ilt. 

Bait, pepper flour to dred ; ,. - j , j M • r . 

1 onion, cut in ali< i J cup flour. 
•i|> turnip, cut in <li' e. .  r. 

at in di 

inch pi< i es. I I be best pi< 

of n  be meal and the bo i water, soak for one bour, tin a 

 until it bubble . half the nra "I! it u ir; melt tli 

in a frying] the sliced onion, and then the floured i 

in tli'- hot Ea1 ; add both to tl and 

To ! la- a'i<l the ' be t'<>ur and 

which b I with one-half cup cold wati 

i  • i - ; i • l 

Ral 

If d mutton a unonly u but 

bit can I"- .-■ ite r^t.hit for !••• f in the stew. After tin' rabbit baa 

;hly cleaned, cut up in eight pi id four \i>*\\ \>i> 

ami < I r. dge w i : b flovu A - 

IT. '.iril or b 

■\  r. I < up mill 

 ; 

^ift dry ingrediei r, cut ii ih<' i d milk gradually b 

a soft dough. Roll out on a Bound b* e d with a bin uit i utter, I.. 

'. pan they should not eink into the Uquid , cover kettle closely, keep 
boiling, and rook dumplings 10 minutes without removing lid. (Do not put 
dumplings in to cook until meat is tend 



70 THEEE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

To Cook Bacon. 

Place thin slices of bacon (from which the rind has been removed) 
in a hot frying pan and pour off the fat as fast as it comes out. When 
the bacon is crisp, drain on paper. Keep hot. Or lay bacon on a 
rack in a baking pan and bake in a hot oven until crisp. 

Pork Chops.' 

Wipe the chops with a damp cloth, sprinkle with salt and pepper, place in a hot fry- 
ing pan, and cook slowly until tender and well browned on each side. Pour the fat 
out of the pan as fast as it is melted. 

Fried Apples. 

Wash apples and slice to the center, removing the core. Roll in flour if very juicy. 

After the chops have been removed from the pan, lay the apples m and cook till 
tender. Serve around the chops. 

See Farmers' Bulletins No. 34, Meats: Composition and cooking; No. 391, Eco- 
nomical use of meat in the home. 

METHOD OF WORK. 

If the meat is to require two or three hours' cooking, arrange to 
have the lesson divided and given at two periods through the day. A 
half hour before opening the morning session or a portion of the 
morning or noon recess mav be sufficient to put the meat on to cook 
and to prepare the vegetables. When the second class period is 
called, the vegetables should be added to the partially cooked meat 
and the dumplings made. It would be well to serve the completed 
dish at the lunch period. There should be as much discussion of the 
kinds of meat, their food value, and methods of cooking as time per- 
mits, but it may be necessary to complete these discussions at some 

other class periods. 

Should it be possible for the teacher to give additional lessons on 
meat, it may be well to devote one lesson to the preparation and 
cooking of poultry, directions for which can be easily secured from 
reliable cookbooks. 

LESSON XVI. BAKED PORK AND BEANS, OR BAKED COWPEAS-CORN= 

DODGERS. 

SUBJECT MATTER. 

Peas, beans, and lentils which are dried for market contain a high 
percentage of protein, carbohydrate, and mineral matter. They 
form an excellent substitute for meat and are much cheaper in price. 
Their digestion proceeds slowly, involving a large amount of work; 
so they are not desirable food for the sick, but are satisfactory for 
those who are well and active. The dried legumes must be soaked 
overnight in water, when cooked for a long time, to soften the cellu- 
lose and develop flavor. 



tffi IN COOKING. 7 J 

IK I II M I N AK) |'| V\. 

It will be necessary to plan this 1 -";> several days in advance if 
the beans are to be baked. As thej will be prepared mid put on to 
bake before the lesson period, the corndodgers can be made to serve 
with them. 

RBOIPES. 

inv wi. meal. 

I'..',: :..■ water t<> moisten. milk. 

1 t- 

1 i ir. 

P ur 1*. .ili er the meal so that it is dl wet but not soft; add lit, 

and milk; wl Id add ' . yolks and whites beaten sly. The ba 

; ly fmm [}|. . but it should ttol be thin enough l " pour nor .-tiff 

izh to !• "tit. It should be shaped in oval shapes on a pan tli 

: and hi awing hoi , and tin- even should !»• a- ! be until 

.'.n and puffy. 

1 quart navy beans. - ta 

1 tables] n -alt. 1 cup boiling wate 

i rd. iund Eal .-.'!' pork. 

3 tali!' - tr. ling water to rover. 

Look over thi . ' Ld water overnight. 

In tii" morning er with fresh water, and heal .-lowly until skina will l>t 

' roken. 
half pound fat salt pork. Scrape the pork. Put a slice of pork in bol 

remaining pork a n strips just through tin- ri ! 

I • . : ' : i • 1  • I 

up boiling water to Beasoninge and pour m • er with boil- 

Bake -l.'\vl\, adding more watei as qi rj e f r. >m si* : 

thai water w ill e ■• an i beans bri 

• .'. 

itmers' Bulletin The pi >n of vegetables for the table. 

r until thi 
l'ut tli' id of 

oful of molasse 

•i hour.-". It i- well the |»>: • I excepl du hour. 

men Bulletin nr, and 

l) OF WORK. 

Have the beans washed and pul I : the nigh 

i> i wu. A- to am of the girls the task 4 ton 

t • boil earl} darning. few 

momenta when tli< % beans un- n a put in to luikt-. Assign one oi 

girls to attend to the fire ami the oven. Let the beans bake nil 



72 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

day. If the lesson is to be given late in the afternoon, the beans may 
be ready to serve, or the cooking may be continued the second day 
and the lesson completed then. It would be well to serve the dish at 
the lunch period. Have the corndodgers prepared to serve with the 
baked beans or cowpeas. 

LESSON XVII. BUTTER CAKES- PLAIN YELLOW CAKE— COCOA- 
COFFEE -TEA. 

SUBJECT MATTER. 

Cakes. — Cakes made with fat rescmole other batters, except that 
the fat, sugar, and eggs are usually larger in amount and the texture 
of the baked batter is much finer and more tender. 

When preparing cake, first get the pans ready, greasing them with 
the same kind of fat that is to be used in the mixture, or sprinkle 
with flour, or line with greased paper. Make sure that the oven is 
at the proper temperature. For a small cake the oven should be 
hot enough to brown a small piece of unglazed paper or a tablespoon 
of flour in three minutes. Bake a small cake 20 to 30 minutes. 
When done, the cake will shrink from the sides of the pan; the crust 
will spring back when touched with the finger; the loud ticking 
sound will cease; a needle or straw will come out clean if the cake 
is pierced, and the crust will be nicely browned. When the cake is 
removed from the oven, let it stand in the pan about three minutes, 
then loosen and turn out gently. Do not handle while hot. Keep 
in a clean, ventilated tin box in a cool, dry place. 

Cocoa. — Chocolate and cocoa are prepared from the bean of a 
tropical tree. This bean is rich in protein, fat, carbohydrate, 
mineral matter, and a stimulant called theobromine. The seeds 
are cleaned, milled, and crushed into a paste in the preparation of 
chocolate. In the preparation of cocoa much of the fat is removed 
and the cocoa is packed for market in the form of a fine powder. 
Cocoa is more easy of digestion than chocolate, because it is less 
rich. Though the amount of cocoa used in a cup of the beverage is 
not large, when prepared with milk it serves as a nutritious food. 
It is slightly stimulating as well, because of the theobromine present 
and because it is served hot. 

Coffee and Tea.— Coffee and tea have no food value when pre- 
pared as a beverage. They contain stimulating properties that are 
harmful to the body if taken in large quantities, hence they should 
be used with discretion. They should never be given to children or 
to those troubled with indigestion. If carelessly prepared, both 
coffee and tea may be decidedly harmful to the body. Coffee should 
not be boiled for more than eight minutes. Tea should never be 
permitted to boil. Freshly boiling water should be poured on the 
leaves and left for three minutes. It should then be strained off 
for serving and kept hot until used. 



SS IN COOKING. 73 

pee] asm i w. 

1' will be well to plan to give the 1 i n on s< peeia] occasion, 

it ia well adapted to Berve for tin menta er^a 

club "i a lit tie class party. 

i:f.i ii B£ 

Plain I'.//, i 

J cup butter. 2 teasp r. 

l • ar. ir. 

I t. 
p milk. U 1 

gradually, mix well. Add well-beaten yol then 

r alternately with the milk. Thei avoring and cul and 

linwhib !ly. Turn into butt osandba • once in a i ler- 

I 

: melted • ho< i late maj be added ait<-r y< 
20 

G . id. 

pe flour. 

r. I teas] n - 

I • . 

I CUj Salt. 

la. j i up milk 'tour i 

• .mi ill' raduallj well-beaten Add mi 

ther, and add a !y with milk. Bake in a buttered 

tin or u •■ oven 25 or 3  minutu b. Serves 8 to 10. 

Cocoa . 

1 fcer. 

ax. cupa milk. 

Mix th< : ili the v i boil 10 minutes. Stir into the hot 

milk and then cook in double boiler one-half hour. 5 

Tea. 1 

- black 2 < pa boilin i freshly 1" II- 

r 

Scald I ' and : ••< p 3 min- 

.■I 

and add enough cold water i" moisten th( and 

maV. • of water to each tab! Pom 

er overt! and boil it for 3 minutes. I'l. it will k 

but not boil, for G min tea or more, and 
white and shell is mixed m ad cold water it will aid in settling 

the 

' The u tTee and tea are given so that tin r preparation with the girls 

andcomi value with the «oa. IS ! tea are. Loth i-ommonlv used in the homes, 

vO have the girls pr- a in the class, reciate the importance of 
proper cooking. 



74 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

METHOD OF WORK. 

Begin the lesson period with a discussion of the methods of pre- 
paring cakes and put the cake in the oven as soon as possible. While 
it is baking prepare the cocoa. If the cocoa is not to be served for 
some time, it can be kept hot or reheated over hot water. 

LESSON XVIII. YEAST BREAD. 

SUBJECT MATTER. 

Yeast bread is made light by the presence of a gas produced by the 
growth of yeast in the sponge or dough. Yeast is a microscopic plant 
which grows in a moist, warm temperature and feeds on starchy mate- 
rials such as are present in wheat. A portion of the starch is con- 
verted into sugar (thus developing new and pleasant flavors), and 
some is still further changed, giving off the gas upon which the light- 
ness of the bread depends. If the yeast is allowed to grow too long a 
time or the temperature is very hot, a souring of the dough may re- 
sult. This souring can be prevented by kneading the dough thor- 
oughly as soon as it has risen well or doubled in bulk or by putting 
it in a very hot oven to bake when it has reached this stage. If the 
dough becomes chilled, the yeast will not grow so well, and if the tem- 
perature of the dough should become hot the activities of the yeast 
would become arrested. A boiling temperature will destroy the 
growth of the yeast. 

Yeast develops in a natural state on the hops and other plants. It 
is prepared for market in the form of dry or moist cakes. The moist 
cakes must be kept very cold. For home use a liquid yeast is often 
prepared from the dry cakes. This has the advantage of being more 
active. 

When the yeast has been added to a batter it is spoken of as a 
sponge. When the batter has had enough flour added so that it can 
be handled it is called a dough. If the bread is to be made in a few 
hours, the yeast is made up at once into a dough. If it is to stand 
overnight, a sponge is often started first. More yeast is required for 
quick rising. Under ordinary circumstances one yeast cake is suffi- 
cient for 1 quart of liquid. Thorough kneading and baking are 
both essential to the success of the bread. 

PRELIMINARY PLAN. 

Arrange to s have the class meet the afternoon before to start the 
sponge and come early in the morning to care for the dough. Begin 
the study of flour, yeast, and bread in a previous class period, cor- 
relating the work with geography, nature study, or some other sub- 
ject. Either white or whole-wheat flour may be used for the breads. 



75 

U « DP 

/: 

(I'o»|jir*-l with di 

1 dry ; J! 

ip warm 2 ' 

ip flour •_■ t ibl< lard .»r butl 

! quart w .n.-r or milk * aided 
Flour , oougfa t'> i: dough. 

At noon put a drj ttkinac p When it u Ida 

cup rer, and put in ;> warn plai i igfal This will 

us. 

Jn thi- evening w hen 
.i lai I; when lukewarm add the cup i flour to k' 

Mix 1 .. ! knead it into 

tiiiMi' until it is boH and elastic Return dough to the bowl, i j.'t 

iii a moderately warm p i night Be 

hit: king knead slightly; divide into loa 

forbaki] rand let rise until double in bulk i60min 

will bake in fr -. for they require a hotl 

I importance that all j 
I for making 

(It 

nil k: >>r aided cake ii 

It. in morniu 

1 ta ; n lar. 1 or but I ;r, white <>r wh 

Pi' igar, and fat in a bowl when luk< 

ter, then the ail) . an I 

tndle, 1 -li nut mi floured, board and kn 

utee u, ( in a warm ] 

until «li tly, di 

pun in d until double in bulk, and 

requin 

Bulletin • 1 an 

1 making in I b< 

»D OF 

h tin class is I. rge, prepare two 01 
nil can i and knei 1 1 i 

mai. ' quantity of l>r< . en in 

to do • of tli. • .use of 

jirls. Use the bread ' or divide it 

among the girls to tal 

Plan a bread i • thai ea will be intei 

ul at home. 



76 THREE SHOET COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

LESSON XIX. SERVING A SIMPLE DINNER WITHOUT MEAT. BAKED 
OMELET. MACARONI AND CHEESE. 

PRELIMINARY PLAN AND METHOD OF WORK. 

At sonic previous time the teacher should talk over the plans 
for the dinner with the girls. It will he well to let them ask the 
members of the school board or other people interested in their work 
to partake of the dinner. They should decide on the menu with help 
and suggestions from the teacher. They should choose foods that 
they can bring from their homes. The main course of the dinner 
should consist of such a vegetable dish as baked beans, cowpeas, an 
omelet, or macaroni with white sauce and grated cheese. To ac- 
company it there should be potatoes and a fresh green vegetable, 
such as spinach or cabbage and a hot bread. 

A simple dessert which the girls know how to make should be 
chosen. One duty should be assigned to each girl and she should 
be entirely responsible for tha^ portion of the work. The teacher 
should supervise all the work carefully. 

The girls may be able to make simple menu cards for the dinner. 
The work of making the cards can be taken up in a drawing lesson. 

RECIPES. 

Baked Omelet. 

2 tablespoons butter. 1 cup milk, heated. 

2 tablespoons flour. 4 eggs. 

; teaspoon salt. 2 teaspoons fat. 

Pepper. 

Melt the butter, add the flour and seasonings, combine thoroughly, then add the 
hot milk slowly. Separate the eggs, beat the yolks, and add the white sauce to them. 
Beat the whites until stiff and cut and fold them carefully into the yolk mixture so 
that the lightness is all retained. Turn into a greased baking dish and bake in a 
moderate oven 20 to 30 minutes. Serve hot. Serves 6. 

Macaroni and Cheese. 

1 cup macaroni, noodles, or rice. Pepper. 

2 tablespoons fat. 1 \ cups milk. 

3 tablespoons flour. 1 cup grated cheese. 
\ teaspoon salt. 

2 cups buttered bread crumbs (two tablespoons butter or other fat). 

Break the macaroni in 1-inch pieces and cook it in a large amount of boiling water 
salted 30 to 45 minutes. Drain it well when tender and pour cold water through it. 

Grate the cheese, break up the bread crumbs, and add two tablespoons melted 
butter to them. Make a white sauce of the fat, flour, seasonings, and milk. Add the 
macaroni ard cheese to the white sauce, pour it into a butter-baking dish, cover with 
bread crumbs, and bake from 20 to 30 minutes in the oven, browning nicely. Serves 8. 



B IN COOKING. 7 7 

LESSON XX. -i \U. 

Food value and cooking. The use of peanuts in candy. Peanut cookies, 
or peanut, molasses, >>r fudge candies i > be made for a special entertain* 

men!. 

r M I 

Sugar is valuable to the body as a source of heal and energy. 
W bile it is of digestion, it is very irritating to the body if taken 

in large quantities, and hence it should be taken in small quantities 
and preferably at meal time or with other food. Two or three pi< 

sandy taken at the end <»f the meal will uot l>e harmful, b tdy 

habitually between meals is sure to produce harmful effects 
in the body. Large quantities of candy are always disturbing to 
the body. 

r is present in many fruits and -nine vegetables. Mil k. con- 
tains a good per cent of sugar. In preparing foods t<> which the 
addition of Bugar seems desirable, care should be taken not to add 
it in large quantit i 

PBELIMINABY PLAN. 

Lb . is desirable to have a dis< u of sugar and its value to the 

body, the preparation <-!' cookies or candy for some school function 
or Christmas party can he undertaken in conjunction with this 

on. The lesson should he given at a time when it will mean 
most •" ' Is. The work should be jo planned that the edrls 

will learn something of the principles of sugar cookery as well 
the - using. 

1 i ..e 3 cups ti ;r. 

owder. 
• iiiiian 
[ cop milk. J i 

■: add milk . ith 

I with bakii I ; \x t<- thi adding 

II lightly, • I <li|> iri lie- oi 

and cinnamon that 1 q butt and bake in 

a h it in n Blip from p 1 • : 

softer <:<*ok; .i!:' i up but 

li* 1>1U* 

J cup sugar. ilk. 

l i-gg. p finely chopped peanuts. 

.ispoon baking powder. 

.ispoon salt. 2 whole] shelled. 



78 THREE SHOBT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar and the egg well-beaten. Mix and sift dry ingre- 
dients, add to first mixture, then add milk, peanuts, and lemon juice. Drop from 
the teaspoon onto an unbuttered baking sheet, an inch apart, and place £ peanut on 
top of each. Bake 12 to 15 minutes in a moderate oven. (2^ to 3 dozen.) 

Peanut Brittle. 

1 cup sugar. 1 cup peanuts (1 quart with shells on). 

Heat sugar until it all melts and liquid becomes clear, remove immediately, add 
peanuts, chopped if desired, mixing them in thoroughly; quickly spread upon a 
smooth tin or iron sheet, press into shape with knife and cut into bars or squares. 
Serves ten. 

Molasses Candy. 

2 cups molasses. 1 tablespoon vinegar. 
| cup sugar. \ teaspoon soda. 

2 tablespoons butter. 

Put molasses, sugar, and butter into a thick saucepan or kettle, and stir until sugar 
is dissolved. Boil until mixture becomes brittle when tried in cold water. Stir con- 
stantly at the last to prevent burning. (Butter may be omitted if it can not be easily 
secured.) 

Add vinegar and soda just before removing from fire. 

Pour into a well-greased pan and let stand until cool enough to handle. Then pull 
until light and porous and cut in small pieces with scissors, arranging on buttered 
plates. Serves 16 to 20. 

Caramel Fudge. 

2 cups sugar. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 cup milk. \ cup nuts, broken up. 

J cup caramelized sugar. 

Boil sugar and milk together, add caramelized sugar and butter, and boil to the soft 
ball stage. Take from fire and beat until the candy becomes creamy. Add nuts and 
turn into buttered pans; when cool cut into squares. Serves 16 to 20. 

See Farmers' Bulletin No. 535, " Sugar and its value as food." 

METHOD OF WORK. 

Devote a separate period to the discussion of the food value and 
cooking of sugar, if possible ; then assign two recipes for the practical 
work, allowing the girls to work in groups. Assign only as much 
work as can be carefully supervised. Do not undertake both the 
cookies and the candy. 



TWENTY LESSONS IN SEWING. 
For the Rural Schools. 



Of I 1 ink or THi 

a I. Preparation fa Preparation and use tape 

■wnimrn. tti , box for work. Talk on cleanliru 

>f paper. 
1 Tumii! . ting hems. Benin icks, 

or othe; kterial for use in washing and dryt 

I I i i. 11 ■■.'.• i'he overhand!' 

i IV. Bags. Bag (made of obtainable n. king 

g the material for I 
wing up the seams wiih a runnii h. 

VI. Mags, continued. Oven seams and turning the hem 

 .VII. Ba Inned. Hemming the top of the bag and putting in a rui 

e for the cord. 
■i VIII. Bags, con tinned. I'r> paring a cord or other draw string for the bag. Put 
-ing in the bat it can easily lie drawn up. Use of the !«><ikin. 

!•: ■'. a darning bailor a 

of the feet and care of stockings. 

la] problem comes up . Bamming i 
T.ilk on care of elo- 

 XI. Cutting OUl an apron for an ur 

a XII. Apron (or nndei continued, m for hemmli or by 

!\III. Apron orundergarm -• . mtinued. Gathering the skirt and stitching to the belt. 

Lesson XIV. Apron (or und- ;ng the bib. 

adergaru ips. 

a X\'I. A pron (or nnd ntinued. Putting tl It. 

a XVII. Met Sewing uttonson apr.- 

Lesson XVII] 

■i X IX. >'S. Binding. 

Lesson XX. A cap to wear with the cooking apron. 

) TO THE TEAl BEB. 

The teacher should b i! acquainted with the condition 

rls live, should know hovt much money they can afford 
ii» what materials illable, what previ 

handwork the girls have had. whether I can afford to ha 
machines in their own homes, to whal extent they make their own 
clothes, and to whal 'it they buy them ready-made. 

The lea mould be planned to furnish hand training, t<> give the 

msl ii of which the girls can mm diaterj i the i 

beir own clot and to provide i pportunity for prepari 
>nfort lessons that are to follow. I I to 

'Should the teach- I 

she desire to have mure time • 

: XX,andthr 
■r small piece. 



80 THEEE SHOBT COUBSES IN HOME MAKING. 

develop habits of thrift, industry, and neatness. The girls should be 
encouraged to learn to sew, both to improve their own home condi- 
tions and to give -them suggestion for a possible means of livelihood. 
If sewing machines are available and are in use in the homes repre- 
sented in the school, it is well to have lessons given in machine sew- 
ing and to have the long seams run by machine. If the girls can not 
have sewing machines in their own homes, the lessons given should 
be limited to hand sewing. In some schools it may be necessary to 
simplify the lessons; in others an increased number of articles may 
be prepared in the time allotted. Should the apron and cap not be 
needed for the cooking class, an undergarment (petticoat) can well 
be substituted. 

The teacher should have a definite plan of procedure in mind for 
each lesson. The lesson should be opened with a brief and concrete 
class discussion of the new work that is to be taken up or the special 
stage that has been reached in work that is already under way. 
Though individual instruction is necessary, it should not take the 
place of this general presentation of subject matter, which economizes 
time and develops the real thought content of the work. 

New stitches can be demonstrated on large pieces of muslin with 
long darning needles and red or black Germ ant own yarn. The 
muslin may be pinned to the blackboard with thumb tacks and the 
stitches made large enough for all to see without difficulty. A 
variety of completed articles should be kept on hand to show addi- 
tional application of points brought out in the lesson. Each class 
may be given the privilege of preparing one article to add to this col- 
lection, and a spirit of class pride and valuable team work thereby 
developed. 

During the lesson, posture, neatness, and order should be empha- 
sized. Application can be secured by making the problems of 
interest. Care must be taken that none of the work demands 'unnec- 
essary eye strain. Each lesson should be closed in time to have one 
of the members of the class give a brief summary of the steps that 
have been covered. 

Since the class period for sewing in the rural school will necessarily 
be brief, the girls can be encouraged to continue their work at some 
other period. However, no work outside of the class period should 
be permitted until the pupil has mastered the stitch and can be 
trusted to do the work in the right way. The privilege of sewing can 
be made the reward for lessons quickly learned, home practice can be 
assigned, or the class can meet out of school hours. AH outside 
practice must be carefully supervised, the pupil bringing her work to 
the teacher for frequent inspection. 



ONS IN si 

If it i- possible t" keep on hand a permanent equipment for sewin 
tlu- following should bo provided for . elusa of L2: 



Thimbles , 1 dozen 

i do en ,40 

Emerj , 1 dozei 10 

a work, I ■': 

•1 

The tea* ber w bo ia to give Lessons in ;owing should secure a helpful 
elementary textbook <>n sewing or some bulletin that deal- with the 
teaching of sewing. Such bulletins arc issued in sod by the 

tension departments of the State university, college, or norma] 
schools. A leaflet that will prove of value, entitled "Sewing for 
Rural School l > ol. VII 7 . is published t>y the Hampton Nor- 

mal and Agricultural Institute, Hampton, Va. It will be senl free 

southern teachers upon request. 

i  f*. 

Buj i R. and Myron G. "School Sewii Problei Fri 

$1. Vocational Supply Co., Indianapolis. 
II ndbook of Elemenl 

AH >V; C I . !'• '-''in. 

Fuller, M.I Boi 60 cents. Im 
Book .'. 1'. |uipmen1 I • . I odianapolis. 

;. 01iv< boot N< • k. m - « inn ,v ton. 

Kinne, Heli ley, Anna M. 'CI ind Health." Pri The 

lauflin, [dabelle. "Handi r Girls. Price, $1. The 

111. 

>i hool 

 
\\ . . ii. 



DETAILED LESSON PLANS FOR THE COURSE IN 

SEWING. 

LESSON I. PREPARATION FOR SEWING. 

Preparation and use of working equipment: Needles, pins, thread, tape 
measure, thimble, scissors, box for work. Talk on cleanliness and neat= 
ness (care of hands, etc.). Discussion of hemming. Hems folded on sheets 
of paper. 

SUBJECT MATTER. 

A hem is a fold used to finish a cut surface, made by twice turning 
over the edge of a piece of cloth toward the worker, and then sewing 
it down. In turning a narrow hem the first fold must be less deep 
than the second, in order that the hern may lie smoothly. If the 
hem is a wide one, the first fold can be much less deep than the second. 

PRELIMINARY PLAX. 

The teacher should have interested the children in the sewing 
lessons before the first meeting of the class, and each girl should be 
asked to come to class with the box in which to keep her materials 
and such other equipment as is required. If the school is to fur- 
nish the equipment, the teacher should be sure that there is an ade- 
quate amount on hand. 

It will probably be necessary to have towels hemmed to be used 
in the cooking classes at school, and the girls should be intert- 
ill doing the hemming. If some of the girls want to hem towels 
for use in their own homes, it will be desirable to allow them to do 
so. Flour or meal sacks will answer. It may be w T ell to have the 
girls each hem a towel for home use as well as for school use, in order 
to impress them with the desirability of having hemmed dish towels 
for daily use. The towels can be planned during this lesson and 
the girls can arrange to bring the material from home, if they are 
to provide them. It will be well for the teacher to have material 
for one or two towels already on hand. Plain paper will answer 
for the practice folding of the hem in the first lesson. 

METHOD OF W T OItK. 

The teacher should devote a few minutes to a talk on cleanliness, 

emphasizing the importance of cleanliness, and the necessity for care 

in handling the sewing materials. This should be followed by a 

discussion of the care of the hands and the condition hi which the 

82 









should I I ul<! in 

i hands and simw them to the ;• 

all i! » ha i ds in pro 

for BOWIE '. ;tll th 

how tl Hid 

 ulil tell what 

them the ma oria] 

ling i 
Before tun \ dboard rulei 

from heavy pap r -1 depth of 

A few mil and tu 

ing a hem 1 1  ;v<l d< 

lewith th turning !:■ first, t hr narrow turn 

to < ■: second, the fold i<> finish the edge. 



X inch 



1 inch 

< -* 



K 



< > 

Vx inch 






eful measuri iuld help to give the girls practi< 

will br able to i -iili t! ited distance in 

or fraction of 

d Im> 
put away in !l - 

picked up from the d rid fli>. 

I.I I II. MEM.M1N'. l*OH 

Turning and basting hems. Hemming I crash, lour or meal 

or other material, for u-*. in washing ;:n<J drying dishes al h in 

school. 

-I i; .1. • 

sting is used to hold two pie of material A a 

strong stitch can be put in. [tki ing long 8 til 

fourth inch from to left and parallel to the • 

to In- her. [n a • tit? the thread is I 



84 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

knot; when completed it is fastened by taking two or three stitches 
one over the other. 

PRELIMINARY PLAN. 

The teacher should have the necessary materials for sowing on 
hand, or should have them supplied by the children. The materials 
needed will include material for towels, white thread for basting and 
hemming, and cardboard pieces for measuring. 

The teacher should also have a large square of unbleached muslin 
or canvas, 18 by 18 inches, and a large darning needle and colored 
worsted thread to use for demonstration purposes. The canvas should 
be pinned to the blackboard, where the class can see it easily. 




Fig. 3.— Even basting. 
METHOD OF WORK. 

As soon as class is called, supplies are at hand, and hands are in 
proper condition, the teacher should demonstrate the basting stitch 
with a large needle and thread on the square of canvas that has been 
fastened on the wall. Materials should be passed for work. Each 
girl should straighten the ends of her towel by drawing a thread, 
Then she should turn and baste a hem three-eighths of an inch in 
depth at each end. 

At the close of the lesson the girls should fold up their work care- 
fully and put it neatly in their boxes. 



II- J\ 'A INC. 

LESSON 111. HEMMING roWELS Continued). 
I lu- Overhanding Stitch an. I the Hemming Stitch. 

81 i:.n.( r .M \ I iii:. 

Overhandi i ilso called overseaniing or whipping) . The edges i<> 
be overhanded are held between the : ; i-t Qiiger and thumb of 1 1 1 < - left 
hand with th< • paralli ! to the lirsi finger. The needle is inserted 

just l>t>l(A\ and perpendicular to the edge. The needle is pointed 

straight toward the worker The stitches proc 1 from right (<» Left, 

; i Btitch b( taken n little to the left of the preceding stitch. 




/ 



 



•111 all be straight on the righl side, but they will slant 
ii little on th< ide. The . dnot 1»<' deep. It i 

be i  i handing Is of linns to 

hold er. The overhanding stitcl 

for j>;i tching, . 

The ovcrhi ' of narro • not a] ary, but ; 

cn<!s may be mi gar thereby, ■! titch is a valuable i 

for the girls i«> know. 

Hemming. — The hemming tit ofthehe 

The end of the basted hem is l.-ii- • and under the second 

finger of the left hand with the fob d edge on d bh< erial 



88 



THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 



toward the worker. It is held in place with the thumb. The stitch 
is begun at the end of the hem. The fastening of the thread is con- 
cealed by slipping it underneath the hem in the inside fold of the 
material. The needle is pointed over the left shoulder, a small stitch 
is taken through the material just under the hem, then through the 
edge of the hem. This is repeated, making the next stitch nearer the 
worker, and moving the goods from right to left away from the 
worker as necessary. Uniformity of slant, size, and spacing of stitches 
is important. 




Fig. 5.— Hemming. 



PRELIMINARY PLAN. 

Before this lesson is given, all the girls should report to the teacher 
with both ends of their towels basted so that they will all be ready to 
proceed at once with the new stitches. 

METHOD OP WORK. 

The teacher should begin the lesson by demonstrating the stitches 
to be used on the large square of canvas, with the large needle and 
heavy thread, After overhanding the end of the hem, the hemming 
stitch should follow with the same thread. The girls will probably 
not be able to finish the hemming in this first lesson, so provision 
should be made for additional time. This can be required as an out- 



- IK 

Bide assignment, if tln-\ have i d Llie method during t li«* class 

period. The teacher may be al>! give them some supervision 

wl ' 'ookin tn i I J. 1 

LESSON l\. BAOS. 

hool bag. Bag (made of material le t<> hold sewing materials 

or the cooking apron. Measuring. and straightening toe mater the 

bag. Basting i h ms. 

• i M.il'.i T MA 111 

stitch wiU be used i a n rit w of work in I ond 

m. 

PRELIMINARY PI \\. 

At some pi time the teachet hould talk with the girls abo 

what material the} will he able to provide for their b md, if the 

teria] has to d, Lould suggest something thai is 

.'•>,. -\; , ; ,;, and inexpensive. The bag should i ty a 

: used for carrying the cooking apron 
k and forth from home, it mu be too ii.L r hi in color. The 

dimensions of the finished bag should be about 12 by 18 inche 

METHOD OF WOBE. 

The bould gel oul the materials they have b for ti 

rid determine upon their size and shape. 1< willnol bene 
ir them to make bags of uniform shape and size. The I aeher 
• •il«l help them ; their materia] to the best advt The 

materia] Bhould be sir I. pulled in place, and measured care- 

fully. When the bag e been cu1 out, the sides dd be 

 ed up. 

II v. BAGS Continued . 

S wing up the seams with a running stitch and a had stitch. 

 . • 

Etui • rig ia done by passing the i • edle in and oul of I tterial 

al regular in Is. Sb should follow 

; of \\ material. The Btitchi >uld 

be]  -. ' gth being determined largely 

by the kind < I. 

When running is combined with a back stitch, two or more runnii 

i alternately. Thi itch 

is a stitch • cd on the upper side of the cloth, putting the 

back each timi cl "f the la h and hi 

it out the  " (>. 

1 If the girls have time to do moro hemming B nple 

I >x the win . . •  :i. This  ap in 

additional lesson periods or alter sclTool hours. 



88 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

PRELIMINARY PLAN. 

The teacher should be sure that all the teachers are ready to 
report, with the sides of their bags basted ready for stitching. 

METHOD OF WORK. 

The teacher should first demonstrate the running stitch with the 
back stitch, and the girls should begin to sew up the sides of the bag, 
using the running stitch. They should commence the running 
stitch at three-fourths of an inch from the upper end of the bag, so that 
there will be a space left for slits in the hem to run the cord. 1 The 




Fig. 6.— Running stitch with a back stitch. 

seams will doubtless have to be finished outside of the class hour and 
should be assigned for completion before the next lesson. 

LESSON VI. BAGS (Continued). 
Overcasting the seams and turning the hem at the top of the bag. ' 

SUBJECT MATTER. 

Overcasting is done by taking loose stitches over the. raw edge of 
the cloth to keep it from raveling or fraying. 

1 The draw siring or ci.nl is to be run i hrougb the hem from the Inside of the bag and it will be i e 
to leave three-fourths of fin inch of space at the ends of the scams to provide slits lor the cord outlets. 



ONS IN St.W INC. 



39 



[MEN \i:l i'i \\. 

The teacher should be sure that all tho girls are ready t<i report, 
with the Bides of their bags neatly Bewed up with the running stitch. 

; BOD <U" w ORK. 

'Piic teacher should demonstrate the method of overcasting an.d 
explain i'-^ u -•. - Bhould have the girls trim the edges of then 
■us neatly and overcast them carefully. After the ave 

been overcast, Bhe Bhould discuss with the ::irl> the depth of tin- hem 
that they expect t" use and the method of turning and basting it. 
The girls should turn ami baste the hems, using tie- cardboard 
measure for securing the depth <>f the hem. Jf the bags are deep 
>ugh to admit of a heading at tie top, a deep hem (about 2\ 
ind an he made and a running stitch put in one-half inch 




i 

mon l aboi e tl -■ o ..;u r or 

cord. If it try tot..: the h< :.i it-elf can 

he in : for tlie • in thi >uld 

he  one-half inch de. |). 

'N VII. B \Q - Continued  

Hemming the t < - p ol the bag, putting in running stitch to provide i 

for the cord. 

view of hemming stitch and running stitch. 

PBELWINAin it v- 

Tho «;irls should report to the class ith the hems basted. 



90 



THREE SHORT COURSES IX HOME MAKING. 



METHOD OF WORK. 

Hie teacher should review briefly with the girls the method of 
making the hemming stitch and the running stitch, asking them to 
describe these stitches and to demonstrate them on the large square 
of canvas before the class. The basted hems should then be sewed 
down with the hemming stitch. 

After the hem is finished the girls should run a basting thread 
around the bag to mark the location of the running stitch that is to 
be half an inch above the hem. They should measure for this c. 
fully with the cardboard rule. 

If there is not time to do all the hemming in the class period, the 
hemming stitch and the running stitch (that is to provide space for 
the draw string) should be assigned for outside work, and each girl 
should bring in her finished hem at a designated time before the 
next class period. 

LESSON VIII. BAGS (Continued). 

Preparing a cord or other draw string 
for the bag. Putting in a double 
drawstring in the bag so that it can 
easily be drawn up. Use of the 
bodkin. 

SUBJECT MATTER. 

To make a cord, it is necessary 
to take more than four times as 
much cotton as the final length of 
the cord will require, for some of 
the length will be taken up in the 
twisting of the cord. The cord 
should be doubled, the two lengths 
twisted together firmly, and the 
ends brought together again and held in one hand while the center 
is taken in the other hand, and the lengths are allowed to twist 
firmly together. The ends should be tied. It will be easier for two 
to work together in making a cord. The cord should be run into 
the bag with a bodkin or tape needle. If one cord is run in from 
one side, and another is run in from the other side, each cord run- 
ning all the way around, the bag can be drawn up easily. 




Fig. 8.— Bag nearly completed. 

From Junior Circular No. 26, Agricultural Exlcn 
sion Department, Ames, Iowa. 



PRELIMINARY PLAN. 



If the children are not able to supply cords for their own bags, 
the teacher should have a sufficient supply of cord on hand. She 
should be sure the girls' bags are in readiness for the Cord before the 
class period. 



\" 



ill 



i HOD OP 

T; In r should begin the leg In describing the hod of 

making the cord, estimating the amou and demonsti 

with the of the girls. iris 

should be nn o thai they can ->f two. After 

they hive completed (he cord, and i ito the l»:iu'. method 

finishing the ends neatly .should 1>, - > thei 




-» 




partition 

i I -son i\. DARM1N< - I >■ \in<i>. 

Use of darning hall or gourd as a substitute For ball. Talk on c.tc of the 

I and can off i 



SI BJ1 < T M 



Tni-> lesson will involve winning and weaving. Darning i- osed to 

fill in a lu>le with thread bo as to supply the pari that has been de- 



92 



THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 



stroyed or to strengthen a place which shows signs of weakness. 
A darning ball, gourd, or a firm piece of cardboard should be placed 
under the hole. The darn should extend one-quarter of an inch 
beyond the edge of the material, beginning with fine stitches in the 
material, making rows of stitching close together in one direction, 
then crossing these threads with rows that run at an angle to them. 
Care should be taken to alternately pick up and drop the edge of the 
material about the hole so that no raw edges will be left and to weave 
evenly in and out of the material and of the cross threads. 

PRELIMINARY PLAN. 

Each girl should provide a pair of stockings with a few small holes 
and a gourd or ball of some sort that she can use for a darning ball. 



METHOD OF WORK. 

When the class 
meets the teacher 
should discuss brief- 
ly the care of the 
feet, and of stock- 
ings, and demon- 
strate the method 
of darning on a large 
piece of coarse ma- 
terial with heavy 
yarn and a needle. 
If the girls finish 




Fig. 11 



From Junior Circular No. 26, Agricultural Extension Department, 

Ames, Iowa. 



one darn during the 
lesson period, the making of another darn for practice outside of 
class should be assigned. 

LESSON X. PATCHING. 1 
Hemmed patches on cotton garments. Talk on care of clothes. 

SUBJECT MATTER. 

This lesson will involve measuring, trimming, basting, and hem- 
ming. A patch is a piece of cloth sewed on to a garment to restore 
the worn part. The material used for the patch should be as nearly 
like the original fabric in color and quality as possible. In placing 
the patch, the condition of the material about the hole must be taken 
into consideration, as well as the size of the hole itself. The hole 
should be trimmed to remove worn parts near it. The patch should 
be 2 inches larger than the trimmed hole. The corners of the hole 
should be cut back diagonally, so that the edges may be turned 

1 tfsed when special problem comes up. 



[N'G. 






under. Hie patch should l>.« matched and pinned onto the 1. 
piece, leaving the edges of the pate i to project evenly on all four 
side-. The edg< the material about the hole should be turned 

in and basted to the b. The of the patch Bhould be 

turned in <o that they extend one-half inch from the edge of the 
hole when finished. The patch and the cloth should he basted 
ether and hemmed. 

PR] i imin \\:\ p] w. 

The lesson on patching should be given at any time in the course 
when it can he applied to an immediate un'<\. If a girl snags her 
dress v. hile playing at school or if she \ - a torn apron, the teacher 
can announce a patching lesson for the next sewing class, and re- 
ques b girl to bring a torn gari tnd the i 1 for 

patch from home. It may be desirable to use two or three peri< 
f<-r this lesson. 









- 

jl 

1 


1 






vV 





i' 

-A 1 



M 1.1 lKUt OF '■'• OBK. 

The teacher should demon f pat 

on a larg lould | 

r with 8 hole i i1 I !aeh pr 
irticle, 
on of si. h : pli 

patch ; trimming the articli 

ther; h. 

LE£ XI. CI rTINO Ot r iPR< OR UNDERGARMENTS. 

B I 

When cutting out an th< ; be 

measured, and to this measure 6 in< I should !><' add 

ii of the materia] ; to this length 



9-i THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

should be cut. This should be folded through the center lengthwise. 
Three-fourths of an inch should be measured down on this fold, and 
the material cut from the end of the selvage to this point in order 
to slope the front of the apron. When the waist measure is taken, 
2 inches should be added to it (1 for the lap and 1 for fmishing). 
Two pieces this length, and 2\ inches wide, should be cut lengthwise of 
the material for the belt, A measure should be made from the mid- 
die of the back of the waist line, over the shoulder, to a point 5 
inches to the right to the center front and on the waist line. Two 
pieces the length of this measure, and 4| inches wide, should be cut 
lengthwise of the material for the shoulder straps. A piece 9 by 12 
inches should be cut for the bib, the longer distance lengthwise of 
the material. These measurements allow one-quarter inch for 
seams. 



Fig. 13.— Cutting out skirt of apron. 
PRELIMINARY PLAN. 

Previous to the lesson the teacher should see if arrangements can 
be made to secure the use of one or two sewing machines, so that the 
girls can sew all the long seams of their aprons by machine. 

At a previous lesson she should discuss with the girls the material 
of which they can make their aprons. They should consider whether 
the apron should be white or colored, and whether it should be oi 
muslin, cambric, or gingham. Each girl will need from 1-J to 2 
yards of material, according to her size. The taller girls will need 2 
yards. 

There should be on hand a sufficient number of tape measures, 
pins, and scissors, so that the girls can proceed with the cutting of 
their aprons with no unnecessary delay. 



- ' - : |N(j. 






The apron to be made i> te »*v< b iiilder 

in onlrr to be :i pi n to I >« > t ft i . st. 1 

M I I BOO <>! *'< »KK. 
A- ... 

for their aprons. One measurement dd l)o i\ ed at a time and 

11. 1 lould follow 

. are d if dii 

y should efull - • tl 

rial ; ed or Boiled, 

■ill. I fold it carefully and put ii awaj neatly. All 
thn i of material should be carefully picked up oiT 

rder. 




' MR. 

XII. APRONS OR i NB RMI NTS Continued . 

tins the hem for hemminf on the machine <>r by hand, t neven 

bastln 

A-: un< ':•• b i rtii g ! >rms the betto ^uide i 1" uneven 

re made about r w ce as long 

tv., tii. 'I fcch Bhould !>•> aboi •-fourth of th on 

upper side of the m ' aa d one- ii on fch< 

1 K the cirls S"B 
an>: straps and torn 

the limit* in til -impler apron nece>-^arv. T pro- 

cesses. Lessons XIV si m then l>e omitted '^ v ' n» a ork 

esquired. 



96 



THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 



PRELIMINARY PLAN. 



h\ addition to the apron material which has been cut out in the 
previous lesson, each girl should provide her own spool of thread 
(number "Sixty" white thread will probably answer for all the work), 
a piece of cardboard 5 inches wide to use for marker, and pins to use 



in fastening the hem. 



METHOD OF WORK. 



As soon as the class meets, the girls should prepare a 5-inch 
measure of cardboard to guide them in turning the hems of the skirts 
of their aprons. They should make a half-inch notch in the measure 
for the first turn in the material. A one-half inch edge should be 
turned up from the bottom of the skirt, then a 5-inch hem turned, 
pinned, and basted carefully with uneven basting. The card board 
marker should be used for both measurements. 



-v- 



mi 




WMWWl 



i 



Fig. 15.— Gathering. 

LESSON XII I. APRONS OR UNDERGARMENTS (Continued). 

Gathering the skirt and stitching to the belt. 

SUBJECT MATTER. 

In gathering, the running stitch is cmplo3~ed. Small stitches are 
taken up on the needle with spaces twice as great between them. 
The top of the skirt should be divided into halves, and gathered with 
two long double threads, using fine stitches and placing them one- 
quarter inch from the edge. The center of the belt and the center 
of the top of the skirt of the apron should be determined upon. The 
belt should be pinned to the wrong side of the apron at these points, 
and the fullness drawn up to fit (approximately one-half of the waist 
measure). The skirt and belt should be pinned, basted, and sewed 
together. 



LESSONS l\ [XG. 






PRE! IM1N \K N 



If the hems have been completed in the skirts, the girls are ready 
rather the skirts and attach them to the belt. I' will be well to 
have puis on hand to use in fastening the skirl and bell together. 



mi i Hoi> OF WORK. 

The teacher should lir-t 
demonstrate the method of 
gathering and assign that 
portion of the Lesson. When 
the skirts hare all been 
gathered she uld 9how 

the girls how to measure, 
pin. and baste the skirt to 
the belt. 




■i the l»'H Of 111'' :i|iron. 
Prom Junior • Ircular N 



LESSON XIV. APRONS OR UNDERGARMENTS Continued . 

Making the bib. 

-i li.il OT M \ l I ER. 

A 2-inch hem should be turned across one Bhort end of the l>il>. 
This should be basted and hemmed. The bottom <>f the bih Bhould 

be gathered, using the 
method employed for the 
top of t he skirt . and leav- 
ing enough thread to adjust 
the gathers easily . 

PRELTMTN \i:v PL W. 

If the girls have com- 
pleted the skirts and at- 
tached till-in to tin: belts, 
they are ready t<> make 
the bibs. They should be 
provided with a 2-inch 
marker for use in making 
the hems in the top of 
ki .11. tl"' bibs. 

Ml. I BOD OF W ORK. 

Ttn> teacher should guide the ^irK carefull} in the making of tho 
bibs, reviewing their knowledge of basting, hemming, and gathering. 

95619°— Bull. 23—17 7 




98 Til KEF. SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

LESSON XV. APRONS OR UNDERGARMENTS (Continued). 

Making the straps. 
SUBJECT MATTER. 

One end of one of the straps should be placed at the bottom of the 
bib. The side of the strap should be pinned, basted, and sewed to 
the right side of the bib with a running stitch. The other long side 
of the strap should then be turned in one-quarter of an inch and the 
ends turned in one-half of an inch. The strap should then be folded 
through the center for its entire length and the free side basted to 
the wrong side of the bib and hemmed down. The remaining edges 
of the strap should be overhanded together. The other strap should 
be sewed to the other side of the bib in the same way. 

PRELIMINARY PLAN. 

The bibs should have been completed before the girls report for 
this lesson. 

METHOD OF WORK. 

As soon as the girls report for the lesson, the teacher should ex- 
plain the method of attaching the straps to the bib and tell them 
how to finish the straps. As they proceed with their work, she 
should supervise them carefully and assign the unfinished portion of 
the work for completion outside of the class. 

LESSON XVI. APRONS OR UNDERGARMENTS (Continued). 
Putting the bib and skirt on the belt. 

SUBJECT MATTER. 

The center of the bottom of the bib should be determined, and 
pinned to the upper edge of the belt, to which the skirt has already 
been attached. The belt should be fastened to the wrong side of 
the bib. The gathering string of the bib should be drawn up, leaving 
2 inches of fullness on each side of the center. The bib should be 
pinned, basted, and sewed to the belt. The remaining long edges 
of the belt should be turned in one-fourth inch, and the ends one- 
half inch. The edges of the other belt piece should be turned in 
the same way, and should be phmed over the belt to which the skirt 
and bib have been attached (with all the edges turned in), and basted 
carefully to keep the edges even. The skirt and bib should be 
hemmed to this upper belt, and all the remaining edges should be 
overhanded. 



sONS IN SEWING. 






PR] i imin \i:i ii w 



The !>il> and Btrapa of the apron b! ould !>•■ completed before t im 
girls report for tin- lesson. 

Ml i BOD OF WORK. 

The teacher should guide the girls carefully in the various Btepa 
necessary in fastening the bib to the bell and in completing the belt. 
If tlit> hemming and overhanding is nol completed during the class 

hour, thej can 1"' assigned for outside work. 

LESSo\ XVII. METHODS OF I VSTENINO QARMENTS. 
Sewing buttons on the aprons, petticoat, or other garment. 

-i i -.Mi t m \tti:k. 

This Lesson should teach neatness in dress through b consideration 
of the best methods of fastening garments. The position of tin' but- 




ts 9e*< big o 
:n Junior Circular No. 35, Agricultural l 

ton is measured by drawing the right end <>f the band one inch over 
the left end. The location of the button should be marked with a 
pin on the left end of the band. A double thread is fastened on 
the right side of the band, drawn through one l><>i t > of the button, 
and hack through the other, taking it through the band close to 
the fir<t Btitch. A pin should be u jerted on top of the button 
under the firsl Btitch, and left there until the l>u I - firmlj fastened 
in place; then removed. Before fastening thi d, it Bhould be 

wrapped two or three times around i : e threads holding the button, 
between the button and the cloth, then fastened neatly on the wrong 
side with a few small stitches one on top of the other. 

PRELIMINARY PLAN. 

Bach girl should come to the class with her apron as nearly com- 
pleted as possible, and with three butto: Jew on it foi fastening 
tin- belt and straps. 



100 



THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 



METHOD OF WORK. 

The teacher should discuss the best methods of fastening garments 
with the girls, and she should demonstrate the method of sewing on 
buttons. The girls should sew one button on the left end of the 
apron band in the middle of the width about 1 inch from the end 
and another button 4 inches from each end of the band to hold the 
shoulder straps. 

LESSON XVIII. METHOD OF FASTENING GARMENTS (Continued.) 
Buttonholes on practice piece, and on apron. 

SUBJECT MATTER,. 

Directions for making the buttonhole. — Measure the location of the 
buttonhole, carefully lengthwise of the band, so that the end will come 



/-I 


***** 


Hf T/ - IfJL 1 - »ip..ilj w-m. 






1 




(a) 



lb) 
The buttonhole stitch. 



(c) 



Starting the ballon hole. The buttonhole stitch. The finished button hole. 

Fig. 19. — Working buttonholes. 

From Junior Circular No. 35, Agricultural Extension Department, Ames, Iowa. 

one-fourth inch from the adge of the garment. Mark the length of 
the buttonhole on the material by putting in two lines of running 
stitches at the ends. To cut the buttonhole, insert the point of 
scissors at the point marked by the running stitches nearest the edge 
of the garment and cut carefully along the thread of the material to 
the row of stitches marking the length at the other end. 

To make the buttonhole, use a thread of sufficient length to do 
both the overcasting and the buttonholing. Beginning at the lower 
right corner, overcast the raw edges with stitches one-sixteenth of affl 
inch deep. Do not overcast around the ends of the hole. " As soon 
as the overcasting is done, go right on with the buttonholing without 
breaking the thread. Hold the buttonhole horizontally over 
first linger of the left hand and work from right to left. Insert the 
point of the needle through the buttonhole (at the back end), bring- 
ing the point through toward you four or five threads below the edge 



m mi 

of the buttonhole. Bring the doubled thread from the eye of the 
needle from right to left under and around the point of the needle, 
draw the needle through, forming a purling stitch. At the end of the 
buttonhole make a fan 1>\ placing from five to seven 3titch The 
thread should be fastened carefully on the underside of the but bonhole 

PRE! [MIM \i: i PLAN. 

Por this lesson it will be desirable to have small pieces of muslin on 
band to use as practice pieces for the buttonholes. 

1 HOD <>!■ WORK. 

The teacher should demonstrate the making of a buttonhole, ill us- 
tr:n ing each process <>n a Large piece of canvas. The bould sew 

two Bmall strips of muslin together and cu1 a buttonhole one-fourth 
inch from the edge of the material, and lengthwise <>\' the material, to 
work for practice. When the buttonhole has been sufficiently per- 
fected on the practice piece, the girls should make a buttonhole on 
the band of the apron. The buttonhole should be made in the ri 
end of the band, and in each end of each shoulder -trap. 

LESSON \t\. K PADDED HOLDER FOR HANDLING. HOT DISH 

BINDINO. 

3UBJE4 i M \ i I in. 

A bolder 6 inches square will besal isfactory for handling hot dishj 
It caq be made of quilted padding hound with tape or of two thick- 
of outing flannel covered with percale or denim, and bound 
with tape or braid, [f made of the outing flannel and covered, it 
should be quilted by stitching from the middle of one side to the 
middle of the opposite side in both directions in order to hold the out- 
ing flannel and the outside coverhn sther. The tape thai is to be 
used for the binding should be folded through the renter lengths 
then beginning al one corner of the padding the edge should be basted, 
half on one side and half on the other. Right-angled corners should 
be formed. When basted all around the tape should be sewed down 
on each Bide wit h a hemming stitch. 

[f the hoi dei- is to be suspended from the apron band, a tape of from 
j, inches to 36 inches in length Bhould be attached to one corner. 
The raw i i one end of the tape should be turned in. The i 

.should be so placed that it over] the corner of the holder about 
one-half inch and should be basted to the holder. The tape should 
then be secured firmly to the holder, hemmed do 

the bottom, and up t he other edge. Tl ther end of the tape 

be finished with a 2-inch loop. The raw edge should be folded the 

tape turned 2 inches down for the loop, and basted in place. This 



102 



THREE SHORT COURSES IN" HOME MAKING. 



should be hemmed across the end. One-fourth inch up from the end 
the double thickness of tape should be back-stitched together and the 
edges of the tape overhanded from there to the hemmed end. 

PRELIMINARY PLAN. 

Each girl should provide sufficient denim, percale, muslin, or other 
easily washable material to cover the two sides of a holder 7 mches 
scpuare and enough outing flannel or canton flannel for a double 
lining. About 1| yards of straight tape one-half inch wide will be 
needed for the binding and to suspend the holder from the apron. 




Fig. 20.— The holder. 



METHOD OK WORK. 

The girls should first carefully measure and turn the material for 
the covering of the holder and then prepare the lining, basting it all 
together, then putting in the running stitch and finishing with the 
binding. 

If it is not possible to complete the holder in one period, a second 
lesson period should be provided, or arrangements made to have 
supervised work done out of lesson hours. 



i 103 

LESSON W. I CAP [X> WEAR WITH THE COOKING VPRON. 

BJEGT M 

The simp! i|) to make will be the circular cap. A pattern 

should be made by drawing a circle 21 inches in diameter with a 
pencil ami string <>n n piece of wrapping paper. The material I'm 
the cap should be cul carefully around tin- circle and finished with a 
narrow hem. A tape t" 1 1 « » 1 * 1 the drav bould be placed 1 | 










inches inside the edge * » f the hem. \ small |  of cardboard cul 

it one half inch wide should be used for measuring the location 
of the tape. B thre< fourths inch wide can he ed for 

tape, or a a rcial tape three-eighth* inch wid< d be p 

chased. The outer edge <>f the tape should be I down firs! , the 

es joined, then the inner edges should be basted, keeping tl • 
smooth. Both edges should he neatlj Bewed down with hemm 
stitch l>\ hand or on machine. An elastic Bhould be n in the 

band, carefully fitted t" the head, and en< tened neatly. 



104 THREE SHORT COURSES IN HOME MAKING. 

PRELIMINARY PLAN. 

This lesson will give good opportunity to make a cap that will 
answer for a dust cap or servo us a part of the cooking uniform. If 
such a cap does not seem desirable and the former lesson has not 
been completed, the cap can be omitted and the work on the holder 
continued. 

METHOD OF WORK. 

The girls should first make the pattern for the cap and then cut 
out their material. The hem should be basted and stitched with the 
hemming stitch. The bias strip should be basted on and sewed 
down with the running stitch. It will probably not be possible for 
the girls to complete the cap in one class period, but if the material 
has been cut out and the work started, they may be able to complete 
it at some other time. The stitches are not new and the work will 
serve as an excellent test of the skill they have acquired in the course. 

o 



^.«\^ <! 



3T3 

U.S. Bureau of EA. 

3}uJJeh"ns. 19]^ 
VI OS. 13 f Q 

NOTICE TO BORROWER 



This card is to be kept in this 
pocket and returned with the 
book. 

No book will be loaned without 
presentation of fhe borrower's 
card. 

This book must be returned on 
or before the last date stamped 
on the card. 

If not requested by another 
borrower the loan may, on 
application, be renewed. 

This book must not be marked 
or mutilated in any way. 

In case of loss its value must be 
paid to the Librarian. 

Any violation of these rules may 
deprive the borrower of any 

fur her privileges of the Library. 



313 



'X\S<Z1. 



