Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



p 



dnok look 



HLLPFUL RECIPES FOR WAR TIME 



COOK BOOK 

Helpful Recipes for War Time 



Compiled by 

Mrs. Roblrt 5. Bradlly 

Pride's Crossing, Mass. 



For the Benefit of the 

Red Cross 

and 

American Fund For 
French Wounded 



$1.00 



19 17 

NORTH SHORE BRLLZL 

Manchester-by-the-5ea» Mass. 




J 



n^sr<\. n-^^ 



AARVARD COLLEGE UMMl 
^ tRATW 



>•• — .-•—v- .*«*».... ^. .■» . . _.«.aM — • m:.JV^,Ujf 



II 






THL COOK'S DUTY 



CVERY cook who contrives a way to save food is doing just 
as patriotic a service as if she were in Red Cross work, and 
in her efforts to reduce the waste of fats or to use other cereols 
instead of wheat flour she is helping the Sammies in France 
quite as surely as if she were knitting socks. 

There is no doubt at all as to the value of kitchen thrift. 
The difficulty comes with bringing home to the cDok herself the 
vitally important part she is playing in putting the excellent 
suggestions showered upon her into practice. 

But we know that the crops our fields are growing must 
suffice, not only for our own needs and the heavy demands of 
the boys whom we are sending 3,000 miles to the trenches, but 
that perhaps the most important task ahead of us in feeding the 
armies of our allies in the fields and the civilian population of 
France, Belgium and England. And so every pound of food we 
save from wastage is ammunition that will do its part in bring- 
ing the war quickly to an end. It does not matter where the 
saving is made. The little economies of the work *ng man's wife, 
who already is at her wits' end to feed her family, and the large 
savings in the household of the millionare are both needed. No 
doubt the housewife, who puts on her gingham apron and goes 
into the kitchen to superintend the preparation of food, can do 
more real service than the woman of wealth, whose desire to 
help is handicapped by the very size of the retinue of servants 
she employs. But there is need for every form of economy that 
will save an ounce of food, and every cook is drafted to this 
universal service. 



HOOVLR'5 RULL5 



MR. Hoover's rules for patriotic economy are now, in con- 
densed form, before the American people. If they were ob- 
served religiously henceforth by €very family in the United 
States, they would constitute in themselves a national "food con- 
trol" — not all the control that is needful, but a very beneficient 
arrangement. They involve no hardship. They are so important 
that the best consideration of them here is their repetition : 

Save the Wheat — One wheatless meal a day. Use corn, 
oatmeal, rye, or barley bread and non-wheat breakfast foods. 
Order bread twenty- four houFS in advance so your baker will not 
bake beyond his needs. Cut the loaf on the table and only as 
required. Use stale bread for cooking, toast, etc. Eat less cake 
and pastry. 

Save the Mfat — Beef, mutton, or pork not more than once 
daily. Use freely vegetables and fish. At the meat meal serve 
smaller portions, and stews instead of steaks. Make made-dishes 
of all left-overs. Do this and there will be meat enough for every 
one at a reasonable price. 

Sav^ the Milk — The children must have milk. Use every 
drop. Use buttermilk and sour milk for cooking and making 
cottage cheese. Use less cream. 

Save the Fats — We are the world's greatest fat wasters. 
Fat is food. Butter is essential for the growth and health of 
children. Use butter on the table as usual, but not in cooking. 
Other fats are as good. Reduce use of fried foods. Soap con- 
tains fats. Do not waste it. Make your own washing soap at 
liome out of the saved fats. 



Sav^ the Sugar — Sugar is scarcer. We use today three 
times as much per person as our allies. So there may be enough 
for all at reasonable price; use less candy and sweet drinks. 
Do not stint sugar in putting up fruit and jams. They will 
save better. 

Save the Fuel — Coal comes from a distance and our rail- 
ways are overburdened hauling war material. Help relieve them 
by burning fewer fires. Use wood when you can get it. 

Use the Perishable Foods — Fruits and vegetables we have in 
abundance. As a nation we eat too little green stuffs. Double 
their use and improve your health. Store potatoes and other 
roots properly and they will keep. Begin now to can or dry all 
surplus garden products. 

Use Local Supplies — Patronize your local producer. Dis- 
tance means money. Buy perishable food from the neighborhood 
nearest you and thus save transportation. 



5 



ORIGIN OF INDIAN CORN 



INDIAN CORN has special historical interest for Americans 
from the fact that it is generally recognized as being native to 
American soil. It was originally a tropical or subtropical plant, 
but the Indians, though unconscious of the trend of their at- 
tempts to extend corn growing, nevertheless succeeded in evolving 
varieties which would ripen as far north as Canada. Its culti- 
vation and use, therefore, even in the early days were very widely 
distributed in America. With fish and game it made the staple 
food of the Indians, and except for wild rice, which grew abund- 
antly in shallow fresh waters, and the seeds of certain wild 
grasses (both used in relatively small quantities), it was the 
only cereal known to them. 

In all the history of America corn has played an important 
part. The desire to produce it was probably the incentive which 
most frequently led the Indians to abandon nOmadic life and to 
form settlements. Because of the quickness and ease with which 
it can be raised, it was doubtless, too, the means of saving from 
starvation many of the pioneers who came from other lands to 
settle here. So important was this food in the days when the 
country was being settled, that both Indians and colonists in their 
controversies often found it more efficacious to destroy the corn 
crops of their adversaries than to make open war upon them. 

After the discovery of America the use of corn spread 
rapidly to other countries, and it is now very generally raised in 
all regions of the world where it will flourish. So generally has 
it come into use that it now ranks with wheat, rye, barley, oats, 
and rice as one of the food grains of the world and may be called 
the American Indian's greatest gift to modern civilization. 



THL COOKING OF CORN MLAL 



A Study of the modifications in methods of cooking, which 
have been rendered necessary by the changes in the compo- 
sition of the meal, was made a few years ago at Teachers College, 
Columbia University, New York City, for the Office of Experi- 
ment Stations. The result of these investigations, which are 
still unpublished, may be summarized as follows : — 

In general it was found that about lo per cent more water 
was needed for the new-process meal than for the old process, 
and that where the large amount of water used renders the meal 
liable to sink, the mixture of meal and water should be thoroughly 
heated before being used for such preparations as bread. In some 
cases, too, it was found best in using new-process meal to pour 
the meal into a dish of boiling water instead of pouring the boil- 
ing water over the meal in a cold dish, for this brings the mix- 
ture to a higher temperature. 

In later experiments made in the Office of Experiment 
Stations it was found that in some cases, notably in that of mak- 
ing quick-process breads out of yellow corn meal, pouring the 
meal into hot water was insufficient. In these cases it seems 
necessary to hold the dish of moist meal over the fire for a few 
seconds. 

When convenience, as well as the final results, was taken 
into consideration, it was found best in almost every case to 
mix the meal with cold water and to heat it thoroughly over boiling 
water in a double boiler. Except when very finely ground meals 
were used, it was found unnecessary to stir at any time, not 
even when Ac meal and water were put into the boiler. The 
conclusion was reached, in fact, that in all cases, even those in 
which the liquid used was not water, but either sweet or sour 



milk, the best results were obtained by heating the meal and 
liquid together in a double boiler without stirring. For example, 
sour-milk com bread was prepared first according to the direc- 
tions usually given in the cookbooks, i. e,, by mixing the dry 
ingredients and then adding the sour milk, butter and eggs. 
Then, for the sake of comparison, the same ingredients were 
combined by heating all of them but the soda and eggs for lo or 
15 minutes in the double boiler. After the mixture had cooled, 
the soda, dissolved in a little water, and the eggs were added. 
The bread prepared by this second method had a better flavor, and, 
though more moist than that prepared by the first method, held 
its shape quite as well. 

Since the composition of the new-process meal differs from 
that of the old-process meal in having less fat as well as less 
water, it is desirable to make allowance for this when using the 
new meal. In making such simple dishes as hoecake and 
corn-meal pone, which originally were prepared from the meal 
and water alone, a little lard or butter should be added and in 
other dishes the allowance of fat should be slightly increased. 



8 



USL5 OF CORN MLAL 



I\ATA obtained in the nutrition investigations show that over 
60 per cfent of the food consumed by the people of the United 
States, on an average, is of vegetable origin, and that about one- 
seventh of this, or 8.7 per cent of the whole, is corn meal. Of 
the total protein consumed, animal as well as vegetable, com 
meal supplies 10 per cent ; of the total fat, 3.8 per cent ; and of 
the total carbohydrates, 13.7 per cent. 

Corn meal compared with other foodstuffs of a similar 
nature is a low-priced food material, and when used alone or 
with other equally low-priced foods makes economi- 
cal dishes. Of these dishes, which consist often of meal, salt, 
and water only, each locality where com is used in large amounts 
seems to have worlced out its own peculiar form. The southern 
cook made hoecake, or corn pone or ash cake, cooking a dough 
of corn meal and water on a board before an open fire, or baking 
it in the ashes. The early New Englander had his "hasty pudding," 
made by cooking corn meal in a large amount of water. This 
was so made that when hot it was thin enough to be eaten as 
a mush with milk, and when cold thick enough to be fried in 
slices. The Italian has his polenta, which resembles hasty pud- 
ding, except that it is usually somewhat thicker and that a little 
fat is added. 



RLCIPL5 USING CORN MLAL 

Tested by Department Foods and Cookery Teachers College 



CORN MEAL ROLLS 

Bread Flour, i^ cups Egg, i 

Corn Meal, ^ cup Milk, 1-3 cup 

Baking Powder, 3 tea- Salt, i teaspoon 

spoons Sugar, i tablespoon 
Butterine, 2 tablespoons 

Mix and sift dry ingredients and cut in the fat. 
Beat the egg and add to it the milk. 
Combine the liquid with the dry ingredients. 
Shape as Parker House rolls and bake in a hot oven for 12- 
15 minutes. 

Yield, 15 rolls. 

Cost of recipe, $ .107. 



"JOHNNY CAKE" 

Com Meal, 2 cups Sugar, 2 tablespoons 

Flour, I cup Milk, i^ cups 

Beef Suet, 2 table- Salt, i teaspoon 

spoons Baking Powder, 3 teaspoons 

Sift and mix dry ingredients. 
Add milk and melted suet; thoroughly mix. 
Turn into a well greased pan^and bake in a hot oven 30 
minutes. 

A shallow gxQ-inch pan is just right for this recipe. 

Cost of recipe, $ .12. 

10 



VIRGINIA SPOON BREAD 

Corn Meal, J4 cup Eggs, i 

Sweet Milk, i cup Baking Powder, i teaspoon 

Salt, y^ teaspoon 

Put milk in a saucepan and let it come to boiling point. 
Remove from fire and stir in corn meal quickly. 
When lukewarm add salt, the t^'g yolk well beaten, baking 
powder and lastly the stiffly beaten t.g% white. 
Put in a hot, well greased baking dish. 
Bake in a quick oven until brown. 
The best utensil for this amount is an earthen baking dish 

holding iJ/2 pints. 

• 

This yields four generous servings. 
Cost of recipe, $ .07. 

EGOLESS CORN MUFFINS 

Corn Meal, i cup Salt, i teaspoon 

Pastry Flour (sifted), Baking Powder, 2 teaspoons 

Yi. cup Milk, I cup 

Sugar, J4 cup Melted Butter, 2 tablespoons 

Mix dry ingredients and add milk and melted butter. 
Put in greased muffin pan and bake 30 minutes in a moderate 
oven. 

Yield, 10 muffins. 

Cost of recipe, $ .08. 

CORN MEAL DODGERS 

Corn Meal, 2 cups Salt, i teaspoon 

Sugar, I tablespoon Water, 2 cups- 

Mix one-half cup of the water (cold) with the com meal 
and when the remaining water boils stir in the meal which has 
been mixed with the water, sugar and salt. 

Cook over hot water 45 minutes. 

Drop by tablespoonful into hot fat and fry until brown. 

Yield, 25 servings. 
Cost of recipe, $ .035. 

11 



SOUR MILK CORN BREAD 

Corn Meal, i pint Salt, I/2 teaspoon 

Soda, ^ teaspoon Egg, i 

Baking Powder, J4 tea- Lard (melted), ij^ table- 
spoon spoons 

Sour Milk,, i pint 
Slightly beat the egg, add milk, salt and soda. 
Stir in the meal. Beat well. 
Add melted lard and baking powder. 
Bake in hot greased pan. 
Cut in squares and serve. 
Do not have batter too stiff. 

Yield, I cake, 9x9x1 inches. 

Cost of recipe, $ .13. 



CORN MEAL MUSH 

I cup Com Meal 3^/^ cups Milk, or Milk and 

I teaspoon Salt Water 

Put all ingredients into a double boiler and cook for 4 hours. 

— Washington. 



CORN PONE 

I pint sifted meal, teaspoon salt, cold water to make a 
stiff dough. 

Sift meal, add salt and water to make a stiff dough. 

Work well with the hands, pat. out in long narrow pones six 
or seven inches long. 

Bake quickly in a hot pan. 

— Virginia. 



THIN CORN CAKE 

Small cup Indian meal, piece of butter y^ size of egg. Salt 
to taste. 

Pour in boiling water to your meal, a little at a time, until 
nearly thin, stirring all the time. Then beat an egg and add. 
Pour into tin a very thin layer. A good fire and a long bake. 

12 



NEW ORLEANS HOE CAKE 

3 cups corn meal (white or yellow) 

3 teaspoons salt 

6 cups boiling water 

Add I egg, add sugar if preferred 

Stir the mixture thoroughly, form in^:o rings placed on a 
well greased griddle and bake 20 minutes 

Turn the cake over to brown on both sides 

— N. Y. 



BROWN BREAD 

2 cups Indian meal 
I cup rye meal 
% cup molasses 
I teaspoon soda 
I pint boiling water 

Steam four hours. 

— A. A. Bradley. 



BIDDY BARNSTABLE JOHNNY CAKE 

I cup flour 2 teaspoons sugar 

I cup Indian Meal 2 teaspoons yeast powder 

I egg Milk to make thin. 

Bake in Washington pie tin. Very thin. 



ELLEN'S INDIAN CAKE 

1 cup of meal, not quite a cup of cooked rice, mixed very 
thoroughly 

2 eggs 

I teaspoonful baking powder 

Milk to make about as thin as any corn cake 

—1873. . 

13 



VIRGINIA BATTER BREAD 

I cup boiled rice 

1 pint milk 

J^ pint Southern white corn meal 

2 eggs 

Piece of butter size of an tgg 

Pinch of salt 

< 

The batter should be put with the rice when boiled and 
drained and still hot. 

Use when cold. 

Beat the other ingredients together then beat in the rice. 

Pour the Jhixture into a greased baking dish and bake one 
hour. Serve hot. 

— Miss Sturgis. 



14 



ORIGIN OF THE TLRM "GRAHAM FLOUR" 



ACCORDING to Sylvester Graham, who lived from 1794 to 
1851, the ancients recognized that the bread made from whole 
wheat flour was more conducive to general health and vigor, and 
better adapted to nourish and sustain than bread made from 
superfine flour. 

Graham was a physician and a student of dietetics. He 
was a noted temperance reformer and lecturer and in 1839 caused 
a country-wide agitation in favor of the use of bread made with 
the whole of the wheat ground, but not bolted. 

From that time to this, .unbolted wheat meal has been popu- 
larly known as "Graham Flour." 



Bardet in describing the food value of Graham bread says, — 
"It contains in totality all the nutritive elements of wheat." 



It thus appears that the statement that the term "Graham 
Flour" is properly applied only to unbolted wheat meal, is sup- 
ported by the English and French scientific authorities. 



15 



DELICIOUS GRAHAM GEMS 

Cream together ij/^ tablespoons butter and 2 heaping table- 
spoons of light brown sugar ; add i well-beaten egg and i cup of 
milk. Sift together i cup white flour, i cup graham, i saltspoon 
salt and 2 teaspoons baking powder. Make a hole in the centre 
of this mixture and pour in the batter already prepared. Mix 
well, beat for i minute and pour into heated gem pans. 

— Mrs. George Warren 



GRAHAM BREAD WITHOUT YEAST 

Graham Bread Without Yeast — Two cups graham flour, ^2 
cup molasses, i cup white flour (sifted), i pint sour milk, i tea- 
spoon soda, % teaspoon salt. Mix graham flour, white flour and 
soda thoroughly. Bake one hour in slow oven. 



GRAHAM MUFFINS 

3 cups graham flour 

1 teaspoon salt 

2 heaping teaspoons baking powder 
I pint sweet milk 

Bake in a quick oven 15 or 20 minutes. 

— E. D. 



BREAKFAST GEMS 

^ cup flour 

J4 cup graham flour 

J^ cup milk 

^2 cup water 

Pinch of salt 

Beat rapidly with an eg'g, whip 5 to 10 minutes, until creamy 
Have gem pans hot, butter quickly, fill 1-3 full 
Bake 20 minute* 



16 



HOW TO MAKL WHOLL WHEAT BREAD 



pOOD experts, including Herbert S. Hoover, have advocated the 
use of whole wheat bread as against the loaf made from white 
flour. With flour at $20 a barrel, it is impossi|?le for bakers to 
turn out white bread at the price demanded a year ago. The 
smallest loaf now sells for ten cents. Not only is that an in- 
crease in price, but the loaf is smaller. 

Aside from the question of the cost of living, food experts 
have stated that whole wheat bread is more nutritious than the 
bread made from white flour and for that reason alone should 
be popular among housewives and in restaurants. 



The N, Y. Herald tried to get the best recipes for the making 
of whole wheat bread. At one of the leading restaurants it was 
found that whole wheat bread has been an institution for some 
lime. The chef gave the following recipe provided for 16 loaves, 
and the individual will have to divide the recipe by 16 to get one 
loaf. 

Sixteen pounds whole wheat flour, 16 level teaspKX)nsful 
(4 ounces) salt, 8 ounces brown sugar, 8 ounces shortening, 
I ounce yeast, 5^ quarts water (part warm to dissolve yeast). 

Sift into a mixing bowl the flour and salt. Make a hole in 
centre and add the sugar and shortening. Add a quart or two 
of warm water to dissolve sugar and shortening. Stir up the 
centre into a thin batter to receive the yeast. Dissolve the yeast 
in warm water and pour into centre. In cold weather, allow to 
stand for ten minutes. Add the remainder of water and mix. 

17 



Let dough stand about three hours with temperature 70 to 90 
degrees Fahrenheit. 

Put dough on floured bench, dust and work into shape for 
handling. Scale off dough into lumps of twenty-seven or thirty 
ounces each. That should be done quickly so as to have as 
little difference in time as possible between the moulding of the 
first and last loaf. 

•Cover pans and let stand from fifteen to thirty minutes same 
temperature. Bake with rather slow oven for one and a half 
hours or more. 

Other Recipes Given. 

Recipes for whole wheat bread, rolls, corn bread and bran 
gems were given the A^. Y. Herald by Mrs. Frank Perkins, head 
of the domestic science department of the Brooklyn Institute of 
Arts and Sciences. She said they are being used extensively by 
housewives of Brooklyn in their efforts to combat the high cost 
of living by curtailing the use of white flour. The recipes 
follow : — 

Roi,LS OR Bread — Sift one quart gluten, whole wheat 
or graham flour ; one teaspoon salt, one scant teaspoon soda, two 
tablespoons baking powder. 

Mix with one-half cup molasses and one and a half cups sour 
milk ; bake in loaf for half hour. Dough may be softer for rolls 
or muffins. A cup of nuts or raisins may be added. 

Corn Bread — Two cups corn meal, two cups sour milk, two 
tablespoons butter, two tablespoons sugar, two eggs, one table- 
spoon soda, one tablespoon cold water. 

Mix corn meal, sour milk, butter, sugar and salt, and cook 
ten minutes. ^ When mixture is cool add eggs, well beaten, and 
soda dissolved in the water. Bake thirty minutes in modern 
oven. 

Bran Gems — One well beaten egg, two teaspoons sugar, half 
cup milk, one teaspoon baking powder, one-third teaspoon salt, 
one tablespoon melted butter, one-half cup whole wheat flour, 
one cup bran. Mix and cook in hot gem pan. 



18 



WHOLE WHEAT POP-OVERS 

To many housekeepers these may seem a novelty, but they 
are excellent. Sift into a mixing bowl two cups of whole wheat 
flour and add half a teaspoonful of salt, two cups of milk and 
two unbeaten eggs. Beat the mixture at first with a spoon and 
then with an egg-beater until very light and full of bubbles. 
Have ready small earthenware cups that have been heated very 
hot; brush over with melted shortening; half-fill with the batter 
and bake for 30 minutes in a rather hot oven. Do not open the 
oven door for the first 20 minutes, and have the cups so hot that 
the batter "sizzles" as it goes in. 



WHOLE WHEAT MUFFINS 

Beat one egg and add one-half cup milk and two tablespoons*, 
melted butter. Combine three-quarters cup of whole wheat flour,, 
one teaspoon sugar, one and one-half teaspoons baking powder., 
one-quarter teaspoon salt. Add to milk and egg mixture, put im 
greased muffin pans and bake in a moderately hot oven. 



WHOLE WHEAT MUFFINS 

2 quarts whole wheat flour 

1 pint white flour 

2 eggs 

2 tablespoons butter 

Pinch of salt ~ 

^2 cup sugar 

2 tablespoons baking powder 
Milk to make a soft batter 

Put eggs, butter, salt and sugar in a bowl, beat up stiff, add 
flour and baking powder and milk. 
Bake 20 minutes in gem pans. 

— Mrs. H. C. Pe:rkins. 



19 



WAR DILI AT KING'S TABLE 

GeoRGR V. Bars Ali. Luxuries and His Guests Cut 

Their Own Bread. 

Ottawa, May i6. Guests at the table of King George of 
England cut their own bread, and this is one way in which the 
King avoids food waste in his household, according to J. D. 
Hazen, who has returned from England with Premier Borden. 
With the Premier, Mr. Hazen sat at the imperial war confer- 
ence, and they were among the guests who dined with the Eng- 
lish King. 

"Everybody in England has enough to eat, but the country 
has come to realize that no food is to be wasted at this time," 
Mr. Hazen said. "King George is joining with his people in 
the food economy practices. We were his guests at Windsor 
Castle, and found that no wine, beer, or spirits of any kind 
were now being used in the King's household. The fare at 
the table has been reduced to the utmost simplicity, and waste 
is being avoided. For instance, you cut your own bread. There 
is the loaf and the knife and you cut what you want. This is 
done to prevent waste. No toast is allowed, because bread once 
toasted cannot be used again in puddings or other ways known 
to cooks." 



HARRY LAUDER 5AY5: 

"Cut the bread and cut it thinner. 

"Eat one pound of bread less each week. Look well at 
the loaf before you cut and know what it means. 

"It means life or death. It is wilful murder to throw away 
a crust or a crumb. 

20 



"If only you will economize and use substitutes for white 
f.read, use oatmeal, barley, maize meal, our wheat supply will 
hold out. You are asked to make a sacrifice, not so much the 
foregoing of bread, but the constant care and vigilance to avoid 
waste. At this crucial moment you are asked to share a com- 
munion of sacrifice and victory. 

"Now cut the loaf." 



OATMEAL BREAD 
2 cups oatmeal 
I large spoonful lard 

1 cup dark molasses 
1/4 cups hot water 

2 cups cold water 
I yeast cake 

White flour enough to make soft dough 

— Miss Lothrop. 



OATMEAL CAKE 

1 cup oatmeal 

2 cups boiling water 
2 teaspoons butter 
Yi, cup molasses 

Let these soak together for one hour 

Mix I yeast cake in J4 cup luke warm water and add to 
first mixture. 

4^4 cups of flour sifted and added 
Let it raise and bake 



BRAN BREAD 

5 cups whole wheat flour 
4 cups Educator bran 
2j4 cups niolasses 
2]/! cups milk 
I teaspoon ful of salt 
I teaspoon ful soda 
Bake in moderate oven 



21 



RYE HOE CAKE 

ij4 cups rye meal 
iJ/2 cups white flour 
2 teaspoons baking powder 
I teaspoon salt 
Mix with cold water 
Spread on baking tin J^ inch thick 

Bake Yz hour, then split, take out a little of the inside, 
spread with butter and put back in oven until crisp. 
Cut in squares before putting back in oven. 

— Christina. 



RYE SHORT CAKE 

2 cups flour 

I cup rye meal 
I tablespoon butter 

3 teaspoons baking powder 
Little salt 

Mix with water, enough to roll out 

Rpll thin, bake 

Split and butter while hot 

— H. R. CivARK. 



22 



PLLA TO U5L WAR BREAD 

Dr. Hess Suggests Medicai, Campaign Extoi^ung Its Value. 

WAR bread for health's saKe is advocated by Dr. Alfred F. 

Hess. 

"At present the kind of flour which is employed most ex- 
tensively, the patent flour,, contains only from 60 to 65 per cent, 
of the wheat berry," he writes in Th0 Journal of the American 
Medical Association. "Flour which is made of 75 per cent, of 
the wheat berry is only a little darker in color than the patent 
flour, and bread made from it is slightly less white. Its cost 
is less and its nutritional value is great, as it contains the bran 
and the embryo, which have particular virtues. From an eco- 
nomical view, it would seem desirable to substitute the coarser 
types of flour for one that is super-refined. In England at the 
present time the mills are required to use 76 per cent, of the 
wheat in making flour. 

"It requires no comment to indicate what a saving of 10 per 
cent, in the utilization of the wheat berry would mean in relation 
to the wheat crop of the United States, which aggregates hun- 
dreds of millions of bushels. The main difficulty in accomplish- 
ing this change is the education of the public. The millers are 
quite willing to supply the grade of flour which the public de- 
mands. An educational propaganda is needed to inform the 
people of the urgent necessity of this economy and also to assure 
them that the alteration in diet would have no deleterious eflfect 
on their health. It would seem that such a propaganda could 

best be undertaken by the 140,000 or more physicians through- 
out the United States. If they served on their tables bread 
made from a coarser flour, there would be more likelihood 
of its general adoption than if it were urged by those whose 
opinion did not carry the weight of medical authority." 

23 



WAR BREAD. 

Two quarts bread flour (sifted), i cup oatmeal, i cup of 
barley, boiled separately one hour or longer, i yeast cake, dis- 
solved in lukewarm water, i tablespoon sugar, i tablespoon lard, 
dissolved in hot water, 2 tablespoons salt, i cup of milk. Add water 
enough to make a dough. Mix all together in bread pan or 
raising pan and let rise five hours or over night, if preferred. 
1 hen turn out on to well floured bread board and cut into four 
loaves. Place into greased baking tins and let rise two hours. 
Bake in moderate oven one hour. This bread is very nutritious 
and will not dry or become stale. 

BANANA BREAD 

The Horticultural Club of Trinidad has arranged to have 
loaves of bread baked from banana flour prepared at local bak- 
eries and offered for public sale in order that the people may 
have an opportunity to know that a most palatable bread can be 
made from banana flour. 

At a recent meeting of this club samples of banana flour 
and bread were exhibited and the method of preparation des- 
cribed. It was explained that the bananas from which the flour 
and bread were made had been taken from trees only five days 
previously, the **silk fig" small variety of bananas producing the 
best results. 

The process was described as follows: Full-grown bananas 
should be selected. Peel, slice, and dry quickly, preferably on a 
galvanized sheet, then grind in ordinary com meal. From 63 
pounds of green bananas, i6V^ pounds of flour had been obtained 
in the specimens shown. The bread, which was very palatable, 
had been made from two parts of banana flour and one of wheat 
flour. The banana flour could also be used as a substitute for 
oatmeal porridge and also for making puddings. 

Reckoning the cost of the bananas used in the above experi- 
ment at 30 cents and the labor for preparing into flour at 20 
cents, it had cost 50 cents, equal to about 3 cents per pound. 

The London Lancet was quoted as stating that banana flour 
is more digestible and contains more nitrogenous matter tha/i 
wheat flour ; also it could keep for a considerable length of time. 
It was also stated at the meeting that plantains could be made into 
flour in the same manner. 

24 



MARY SWAMPSCOTT MUFFINS 

I pt. milk ^ yeast cake 

% cup sugar Teaspoon salt 

Flour for a thin batter 

In the morning add an egg, with little soda. Bake in muffin 
rings. 



BREAD-CRUMB BISCUIT 

I Egg yi teaspoonful of salt 

1/4 cup of sugar 2 teaspoons of baking powder 

i^ cups of crumbs i cup of milk 
^ cup of flour 

Bake in muffin-tins. 

— Mrs. Wallace Goodrich. 



25 



1 



DONT FORGET COTTAGL CHEESE 



IN most places cottage cheese is a commodity that cannot be 
had every day simply for the asking. It is only when the 
farmers or dairy folk happen to have a surplus supply of milk 
that they find it worth while to make this delicacy. Perhaps 
if we American housewives valued it as highly as we ought to 
we would pay a price for it that would make it worth while 
to prepare it especially for us. But so long as its values are not 
fully appreciated, those of us who do know enough to make use 
of it can have it at a small price. In fact, it is as cheap a way 
to buy protein food as one could find. Authorities tell us that, 
pound for pound, it is richer in proteins than most kinds of meat 
— and meats, as every one knows, are the typical protein food. 
If you compare the price you pay for a pound of cottage cheese 
you will see a very good reason why you should make use of 
cottage cheese when you have an opportunity to do so. 

Few housewives who do not live on farms know that they 
can make delicious cottage cheese in their own kitchens. It 
would hardly be worth while to do this when it can be bought, 
for the market price is very low, but when you have sour milk 
on hand you will find this is as good a way of using it up as 
any that you could devise. It is not necessary to have creamy 
milk. Skim milk will answer the purpose, though if richer 
milk is used there will be more fat in the cheese. In whatever 
way you make it, all the protein of the milk is used. The 
amount of fat depends on the creaminess of the milk. If the 
cheese is made from skiia milk the addition of a very little 
butter or cream will give it a better flavor, though it is not at 
all necessary. 

26 



A good way to make it is to pour the excess milk in a 
broad open dish and let it remain in a warm place till the milk 
is separated; that is, until the curd has formed. The plate 
warmer of a stove is a good place, for the reason that the heat 
there is not too great and it can be kept covered so that dust 
does not enter. 

Next prepare the cheesecloth, which may be any cloth of not 
too fine weave. Spread it over a dish, pour in the separate milk, 
allowing none to go over the side of the cloth. Gather together 
the edges of the cloth and tie them securely with a string, leaving 
a loop. It is most convenient to hang this loop over a peg or a 
rod of the towel rack and permit the water to drip for several 
hours. Do not hurry matters by pressing the water out. When 
this process is complete the cheese within the cloth should be 
fairly dry. It should be seasoned with a little salt, pepper and 
possibly with butter or cream before being used for the table. 

There is an almost endless variety to the ways that cottage 
cheese can be used with lettuce or other salad. It is especially 
good when sprinkled over slices of pineapple on lettuce leaves. 
A generous dash of paprika not only adds to the tempting ap- 
pearance of such a dish, but gives a good flavor as well. 

Recently the Department of Agriculture in the Weekly News 

Letter has been urging the use of cottage cheese, and the receipts 

there given as suggestions for the table proved to be particularly 

good. For the benefit of those who do not see this publication, 

here is the receipt for making cottage cheese and nut roast: — 

One cupful of cottage cheese. 

One cupful of chopped English walnuts. 

One cupful of breadcrumbs. 

Two tablespoons ful chopped onions. 

Two tablespoons ful butter. 

Juice of half a lemon. 

Salt and pepper. 

Cook the onion in the butter or other fat and a little water 
until tender. Mix the other ingredients and moisten with the 
water in which the onion has been cooked. Pour into a shallow 
baking dish and brown in the oven. 

27 



In making this it will be found best not to use dry bread- 
crun'.bs nor crumbs from the crusts of bread. It is always best 
Vy'hen making use of discarded bread to crumble the crumbs from 
the centre of the pieces when they are still fairly moist and to 
use them for such receipts as this, that call for crumbs, saving 
the dryer portions and the crusts for fine crumbs for the outside 
of croquettes, meat loafs or other dishes where cracker dust 
might be used. In the above receipt do not chop the walnuts 
tc a powder. 



MACARONI LOAF WITH CHEESE AND TOMATO 

SAUCE 

Yz cup macaroni in small pieces 

I cup milk 

I cup soft bread crumbs 

I tablespoon butter 

3 eggs 

I tablespoon chopped green pepper 

I teaspoon each of chopped onion and parsley 

I teaspoon salt 

Yi. cup grated cheese 

Cook macaroni in boiling salted water till tender and rinse 
in cold water. 

Cook parsley, onion and pepper in a little water with the 
butter. 

Pour off water and allow it to boil away. 

Beat the t%% yolks and whites separately. 

Mix all the ingredients, cutting and folding in the stiffly 
beaten whites at the last. Line a quart baking dish with buttered 
paper. Turn mixture into it. Set baking dish in pan of hot 
water and bake in moderate oven J^ to % of an hour. 

Serve with tomato sauce around it. 

A round baking dish with hole in the center in which pars- 
ley can be put for decoration of mould when turned out, add to 
attractiveness of dish when served on round platter. 

— Mrs. John Livingston Gradin, Sr. 

28 



GNOCCHI ROMAINE 

Boil a quart of milk in a saucepan. When well boiling add 
slowly about 7 ounces (200 grammes) of farina, let this boil for 
four minutes, then add 2 eggs, some salt and Parmesan cheese. 
Pour this into a shallow pan and let it cool. When cold cut it 
into small rounds about an inch and a half in diameter and put 
them on a flat baking dish or plate in rows, making each layer 
smaller than the last, until you come to one on top, sprinkling 
cheese and butter over each layer. Brown in the oven, serve 
hot. — Miss Sturgis. 



BAKED RICE AND CHEESE 

Mix 3 tablespoons butterine and 3 tablespoons flour, Yz tea- 
spoon salt, y^ teaspoon dry mustard and a few grains of 
cayenne. When smooth add slowly 2 cups of hot skimmed milk 
and stir until it boils. Then add i cup cheese cut in small pieces 
and when melted mix lightly with cuo of rice cooked until soft. 

Put into buttered baking dish. Mix H cup cracker crumbs 
with two tablespoons melted butterine. Sprinkle over rice and 
bake until brown. — Mrs. Barbour. 



FRIED CHEESE 

Ciit some light colored American cheese into 2-inch squares, 
J4^i^ch thick. 

Fry in pan greased with cooking oil. (Does not cause 
cheese to stick as when butter is used.) 

Fry slowly, and when it begins to puflF up in center, turn 
and brown on other side. 

Serve plain on toast or cracker. — Mrs. Pingrke. 



CHEESE SOUFFLE 

I pint milk Salt, mustard and red pepper 

% cup corn meal to taste. 

I t.gg, V> CUD cheese 

Cook the com meal in the milk, stirring it in. Add tgg, 
cheese, and seasoning, and bake. 

— M. L. C. 

29 



SEMOLINA 

Take i pint of milk, 4j4 ounces of white Indian meal and 
boil thoroughly ; before taking off the fire add salt to taste, one 
ounce butter, % ounce of cheese. 

Before it is cold mix in two eggs ; pour it out on a dish, 
spreading it an even thickness of % of an inch. When cold cut 
in small squares. Put in layers in a deep baking dish adding 
between each layer bits of butter and cheese grated. Not any on 
top. Brown in hot oven and serve at once. 

— Mrs. Barbour. 



CHEESE LOAF 

Soak I cup of fine bread crumbs in i cup of milk. Beat 2 
eggs and add to milk, then 2 teaspoons melted butter, i teaspoon 
salt, l^ teaspoon of nepual pepper, y^ teaspoon mustard and 
a little red pepper and paprika and lastly i^^ lbs. grated dairy 
cheese. 

Stir well, pour into a loaf bread tin. Sprinkle the top with 
buttered bread crumbs. Bake in quick oven until brown and 
when cold serve in thin slices. It is best to place the bread tin 
in a shallow pan with a little water in it to prevent bottom from 
burning. 



30 



50ML 5U5TITUTL5 FOR MEAT 



IRISHES that are substantial enough to take the place of 
meat are much in demand. 

Rice, tomatoes and cheese may be combined for this pur- 
pose. Fresh or canned tomatoes may be used. 

Yt. cup rice to i can of tomatoes. 

Put in a deep baking dish a layer of tomatoes, layer of rice 
and one of grated cheese and continue until the dish is half full, 
adding salt and pepper. This should cook from ij5/2 to 2 hours, 
adding a little water from time to time if it seems necessary. 

LUNCHEON EGGS 

Drop eggs as usual ; take from the fire and put on a platter ; 
brush each t.gg with butter, stand aside to cool. Then place in 
ice chest to be thoroughly chilled. 

Have a saucepan of melted lard very hot. Cover the eggs 
with bread crumbs and fry the same as croquettes. Serve on 
slices of fried toast with cream sauce. 

If eggs are to be used for luncheon they should be pre- 
pared early to be thoroughly chilled before they are fried. , 

STUFFED EGGS ON TOMATO 
Three hard-cooked eggs, three tablespoons grated American 
cheese, one- fourth teaspoon powdered mustard, one tablespoon 
lemon juice, one tablespoon cream, six slices of bread or toast, 
one tablespoon chopped parsley, salt and paprika. 

Carefully cut the eggs crosswise in halves. Remove the 
yolks and mash. Add cheese, mustard, salt and paprika, lemon 
juice and cream. Add more liquid if needed to make a paste. 
Combine the mixture thoroughly and refill the whites. Sprinkle 
\\ ith chopped parsley. Place the slices of tomato on bread or 
toast same size. Cut oflF a little from the end of each ^gg and 
place it on a slice of tomato. 

31 



CARBOHYDRATLS IN FCX)D5 

(In form of starch and sugar) 



IT IS well worth while knowing how much carbo-hydrates, in the 
form of starch and sugar, are found in various foods. Dr. 
Joslin in his investigations in nutrition at the Carnegie Institute 
gives interesting and valuable tables, all of which are worth re- 
membering. 

The foods which contain five percent are : 

Lettuce, spinach, sauerkraut, string beans, celery, cucumbers, 
Brussels sprouts, sorrel, endive, dandelion, Swiss chard, cauli- 
flower, tomatoes, rhubarb, eggplant, leeks, watercress, radishes, 
beet greens, cabbage, kohl-rabi and vegetable marrow. 

Ten percent : Onions, squash, carrots, okra and beets. 

Fifteen percent: Green peas, artichokes, parsnips, canned 
lima beans. 

Twenty percent : Potatoes, shelled beans, baked beans, green 
corn, boiled rice and macaroni. 

^ The percentages of carbo-hydrates in fruits and nuts are 
calculated as follows: 

Five percent: Ripe olives, grape fruit, butternuts and pig- 
nolias. 

Ten per cent: Pineapple, watermelon, oranges, blackberries, 
cranberries, gooseberries, peaches, Brazil nuts, walnuts, hickory 
nuts and pecans. 

Fifteen percent: Apples, pears, cherries, currants, raspber- 
ries, huckleberries, almonds, -English walnuts, beechnuts, pis- 
tachio and pine nuts. 

Twenty percent : Plums, bananas and peainuts. 
Forty percent : Chestnuts. 

32 



50UP5 



COUPS are the solution of some of our food problems. They 

offer a way by which we may use most successfully the left 

over vegetables from our tables and some of the surplus from 

the garden, which we have made it our patriotic duty to plant. 

Vegetables are good food, not only because they are rela- 
tively rich in mineral matters and mild vegetable acids, but be- 
cause they contain the recently discovered substances which the 
body must have in order to do its work properly. 

Soup stock made from meat may be varied in flavor by 
adding siich vegetables as carrots, onions, tomatoes, turnips and 
celery. Okra, a splendid vegetable, finds its most perfect use 
in thickening soups. The food experts at Washington have 
worked out some excellent recipes for vegetable soups. Try 
them, they are money savers. 



MIXED VEGETABLE SOUP 

Three quarts water, i quart shredded cabbage, half pint 
minced carrots, i pint sliced potato, half pint minced onion, i 
leek, 2 tomatoes, 2 tablespoons minced celery, 2 tablespoons 
butter or drippings, 2 tablespoons green pepper, 3 tablespoons 
salt, 94 teaspoon pepper. 

Have the water boiling hard in a stewpan and add all the 
vegetables except the potatoes and tomatoes. Boil rapidly for 
ten minutes, then draw back where it will boil gently for one 
hour. At the end of this time add the other ingredients and 
cook one hour longer. Have the cover partially off the stew- 
])an during the entire cooking. This soup may be varied by 
using different kinds of vegetables. 

33 






CABBAGE AND POTATO SOUP 

Half pint boiled cabbage, finely minced; 3 medium-sized 
potatoes, 1V2 level tablespoons butter, drippings or other fat; 
1 teaspoon salt, l^ teaspoon pepp)er, 13/2 pints milk, whole or 
skim, or milk and water, boiling hot. 

Peel the potatoes, cover with boiling water and cook until 
tender — usually thirty minutes. Pour off the water and mash 
until fine and light; add the cabbage, butter or other fat, and 
seasoning; then slowly add the hot milk or milk and water and 
toil up well. If a thinner soup is required, the amount of milk 
or milk and water can be increased. If liked, an onion cut up 
fine and cooked in a little water may be added to the soup to 
give additional flavor, or grated cheese may be served with it. 
Kale, turnips or a mixture of vegetables can be substituted for 
the cabbage if desired and this is a good way to use up leftover 
vegetables. 



BREAD SOUP 

Boil a quart of water with salt and add to it some pieces of 
stale bread broken in small pieces. Let it boil and soften and 
mix it with a piece of butter and serve. It has to be thick. 



MILK SOUP 

Slice in a soup terrine some stale bread. Pour over it a 
pint or a quart of boiling milk. Add some salt and butter and 
serve. 

— Mme. G. Abbott. 



CONNECTICUT BEAN PORRIDGE 

Wash and soak over night i pint of beans; drain and put 
in kettle with 2 quarts of water, J^lb. of corned beef and a small 
slice of salt pork. 

Cook slowly for four hours. 

Serve as thick as pea soup. 

— R. S. B. 

34 



ITALIAN VEGETABLE SOUP 

Any vegetables you have, cut small and cook in milk on 
the back of the range for three or four hours. 
Season with pepper and salt. 



MILK AND CHEESE SOUP 

3 cups of milk, or part i cup grated cheese 
milk and part stock Salt and paprika 

1V2 tablespoons flour 
Thicken the milk with flour, cooking thoroughly in double 
boiler, stirring frequently. 

When ready to serve add cheese and seasoning. 

The proteoids in this soup are equal in amount to those in 
5-6 pound of beef. Its fuel value is higher than i pound beef. 

— M. McI. G. 



35 



FISH 

/ 
» 

Five Economical Ways of Preparing Fish 

Food Department Women's Municipal League 

Broiled Haddock. Cost $0.24. Calories 500 

Broil 2 lbs. haddock ten minutes or until fish is a delicate 

brown. Season with salt, oleomargarine and lemon juice ; garnish 

with chopped parsley and paprika. 

Scalloped Haddock. Cost $0.20. Calories 800 

Two cups of flaked boiled haddock, ij/^ cups No. 2 White 
Sauce, I teaspoonful onion juice, i cup buttered stale bread 
crumbs (2 tablespoons oleomargarine to i cup crumbs). Garn- 
ish with chopped parsley and paprika. 

Boiled Haddock with Horse Radish Sauce. 

Cost $0.27. Calories 400 

Use iV^ cup of fish stock, 3 tablespoons flour, i table- 
spoonful vinei^ar; 2 tablespoons freshly grated horse radish. 
Pour over boiled haddock and garnish with chopped parsley. 

(To make fish stock place head, bones and skin with 2 car- 
rots, I onion, 6 peppercorns, a bit of bayleaf, i teaspoon salt in 

1 quart boiling water, boil fish until tender, strain, use stock for 
sauce.) 

Haddock en Case. Cost $0.22. Calories 475 

Roll one haddock fillet, 1% lbs., in softened oleomargar- 
ine, sprinkled with salt, roll in browned sifted bread crumbs, 
sprinkle with chopped parsley; place in oiled paper, seal with 
flour and water paste. Place in pan, bake in moderate oven 
20 minutes. 

Fish Sausage. Cost $0.25 — i lb. Calories 850 

Mince any kind of fish very fine. Stew an onion until ten- 
der, chop very fine, add 2 tablespoons oleomargarine. Soak 

2 cups of bread crumbs in milk, squeeze dry and add it to onion 
mixture. Season the mixture to taste and mix in 2 well beaten 
eggs. Last of all, put in the minced fish and mix well together, 
shape into sausage, and fry to a golden brown. 

36 



FISH MOUSSE 

This recipe utilizes the left-over mackerel. Flake the fish 
and for each cupful allow the following proportions for the 
mousse. Mix together ^ teaspoonful of sugar, i well beaten 
egg and i cup of milk. Cook this over hot water until well 
thickened, but do not boil ; add 1/4 of a cupful of vinegar and i 
tablespoonful of any one of the quick gelatines, softened in a 
quarter of a cupful of cold water. Stir until gelatine is dis- 
solved, set aside and stir occasionally as it begins to thicken. 
Then add the flaked fish, turn into a ring mould that has been 
rinsed with cold water and place directly on the ice to chill and 
harden. Serve unmoulded, surrounded with a border of crisp 
cress. 



FISH AU GRATIN 

One and one-half cupsful of cold baked fish 

One cupful of bread crumbs 

One and one-half cupsful of cream sauce 

One and one-half teaspoons ful of salt 

One-half teaspoonful of paprika 

One finely minced red pepper 

Place a layer of the crumbs in the bottom of the casserole 
dish, then a layer of fish, crumbs and cream sauce, sprinkling 
with the seasoning. Have the top layer of crumbs; dot with 
tiny bits of butter and then bake for twenty-five minutes in a 
moderate oven. 



SCALLOPED FISH 

Put 2 pounds of any white fish, boiled and broken fine, into 
a quart dish. 

Thicken i pint boiling milk with 2 tablespoons flour. Sea- ^ 
son with pepper, salt and a trifle of onion and pour over the first. 

Add a little butter and sprinkle with fine cracker crumbs 

Bake J4 hour. 

— H. S. C. 

37 



FINNAN HADDIE 

Soak finnan haddie in half milk and half water one hour. 

Then pick over with fork, using 2 cupsful of the mixture. 

Melt 3 tablespoons ful butter in saucepan. 

Add tablespoonful finely chopped onion. 

Cook five minutes. 

Then add 2 tablespoons ful flour, i cup cream, ^ cup milk. 

Have ready some well cooked macaroni. Line a baking dish 
with it. 

Mix fish and sauce and add % cup of chopped red peppers. 

Pour over macaroni, sprinkle with grated cheese and brown 
in quick oven, and serve at once. 



38 



RICL 



BOILED RICE 

Wash one cup of rice. Put three quarts of boiling water 
into a kettle, add a tieaspoonful of salt, and let it BOIL 
RAPIDLY; sprinkle in the rice so gradually that you will not 
stop the boiling. When you have it all in, give the water a 
twirl with a fork, cover the kettle and boil rapidly twenty min- 
utes. Then pour into a colancTer to drain. Place the colander 
on a tin dish ; stand it in the oven for five minutes to dry, leav- 
ing the door wide open ; then turn it carefully into a heated dish. 
Serve without a cover. 

Remember that the rapid boiling allows each grain to swell 
to three times its normal size, and the motion prevents the grains 
from sticking together. DO NOT STIR IT, as this will cause 
it to fall to the bottom of the kettle and burn. Placing in the 
oven with the DOOR OPEN evaporates the moisture, leaving 
the rice soft, snowy white and perfectly dry. 



RICE (SOUTHERN FASHION) 

Boil vigorously one cup of rice in salted water for lo min- 
-utes. 

Turn off water, cover and set over hot part of stove and 
allow to steam for one-half hour. 



RICE MOLASSES PIE 

Stir into a cup and one-half of molasses one teaspoonful of 
soda until white, add one-half cup of finely mashed boiled rice, 
a-cu?:) of sour cream and three well-beaten eggs. Bake with two 
-crusts. This is for two pies. 

39 



RICE GRIDDLE CAKES 

Scald one pint of milk, stand to one side until cold; then 
add one-half cup of yeast or half a compressed cake, one large 
teaspoonful of salt, two and one-half cups of flour and one cup 
of boiled rice. Stand it in a warm place until morning. In the 
morning beat two eggs separately until light ; add first the yokes 
and then the whites; mix thoroughly; let stand fifteen minutes 
and bake on a hot griddle. 



STUFFED EGGS AND RICE 

Hard boil 6 eggs, remove the shells and cut them in halves. 
Take out the yolks and make a paste of them, adding a teaspoon 
of melted butter, 3 sardines mashed, ^ teaspoon of salt and a 
little paprika. Mix and form into balls and fill in each half of 
the whites. Have ready some hot boiled rice on a dish and sink 
the 12 halves into it symmetrically to form an attractive design. 
J*lace the dish over hot water while you rub together 2 teaspoons 
of butter and 2 teaspoons of flour, a cup of milk, a cup of stock 
and seasoning. When this has boiled pour over all and garnish 
with parsley. Serve very hot. 



MINCED FOWL IN RICE CASES 

To extend a small quantity of meat or poultry by the addi- 
tion of a cereal — like rice — is true economy. Boil in a mixture 
of milk and water about three-quarters of a cup of rice, and 
when nearly tender steam until almost dry. Season with a 
little salt the water in which it cooks. Pack while warm into 
individual cups and set aside to cool. When ready to serve 
scoop a portion from the centre of each mould — reserving this 
part for the next day's soup — and fill the spaces with minced 
fowl that has been reheated in a little of the gravy. Season with 
c? little chopped parsley, stand the cups in a pan of hot water, 
cover over the tops with greased paper and poach for 20 minutes 
in the oven. Serve in the cups or baking dishes. Used in this 
way a very small quantity of the fowl will answer for dinner. 
Of course, no potatoes are necessary. 

40 



RICE CHOCOLATE PIE 

One quart of milk, yolks of two eggs, four tablespoonsful 
boiled rice, put through a sieve, two squares of chocolate melted, 
and one cup of sugar. Scald the milk in a double kettle. 



RICE PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS 

Put into a well-buttered pan half pound of rice, well washed ; 
pour over it three pints of cold milk, sweeten and flavor to taste ; 
put a little butter and nut iieg over the top. Bake 2)4 hours in a 
slow oven. 



41 



PUDDINGS 



BOILED INDIAN PUDDING 

2 cups Indian Meal Tablespoon sugar 

1 cup flour Teaspoon soda 

2 cups milk 2 teaspoons cream tartar 
I egg I tablespoon butter 

Boil in pudding mould 3 hours and serve with cream and 

sugar or maple syrup. — R. S. B. 



STEAMED INDIAN PUDDING 

I cup milk 

1 cup cream 

2 cups Indian meal 
I cup flour 

1 teaspoon of sugar 

2 teaspoons baking powder 

In place of cream or milk a piece of butter size of an egg. 

Steam 3 hours. 

Serve with cream, sugar or syrup. 

—A. A. B. 



APPLE CHARLOTTE 

A layer of chopped apples, a layer of bread crumbs, butter 
and nutmeg over each layer. 

Pour on a cup of water and bake 2 hours. 
Serve with hard sauce. 

V.^. V/. V/» 

42 



RICE MERINGUE 

I tea cup rice 
I quart milk 

4 or 5 eggs 

Sugar to taste 

Vanilla to taste 

Boil rice in water until nearly dry, add milk and boil a 
while, sweeten to taste. 

The whites are beaten after the pudding is baked. Sweeten 
the whites with powdered sugar and vanilla. Spread the pud- 
ding thickly over with the meringue and set in oven to brown. 



SPICED PUDDING 

I cup bread 

I pint scalded milk 

yi cup molasses 

% cup salt 

Cloves, allspice, cinnamon, nutmeg 

I cup raisins 

Soak bread crusts in milk till soft. Add molasses, salt, 
spices and raisins. 

Stir occ^asionally at first. Bake in very moderate oven 
nearly an hour. 

Hard sauce or cream. 



DROP CAKES 

lyi cups rye flour 

1 cup corn meal 
yi cup wheat flour 

2 eggs 

4 tablespoons molasses 
Salt to taste 

I teaspoon soda dissolved in hot water 
ij4 cups sour milk 

Mix all together and drop from a dessert spoon into deep 
boiling lard. 

This is enough for eight people. 

— E. B. R. 

43 



BAKED APPLES 

Pare and core enough tart apples to cover the bottom of a 
deep baking dish. Put a thin strip of butter in the core of each 
apple and sprinkle with sugar. 

Pour half a cup of water around the apples, cover and bake 
till the apples are soft, but not broken. Sprinkle with cinnamon 
if desired. 

Serve with cream. 

f — IT. R. C. 



DOUGHNUTS 

I cup butter 

yi cup milk 

I cup sugar 

5 eggs 

yi teaspoon baking powder 

Sift baking powder in with flour. Cream butter and sugar. 
Break egg^s whole into the mixture. Mix all together and roll 
out in sufficient flour. Fry, cover with granulated sugar. 

— L. H. N. 



OLD-FASHIONED GRAHAM FLOUR COOKIES 

2 cups Graham flour 
J4 cup butter 
J4 cup sugar 
j/i teaspoon soda 
yi teaspoon salt 
Molasses to moisten 
Roll thin 



OATMEAL MACAROONS 

2 tablespoons of butter 
% cup of sugar (scant measure) 
Yolks of two eggs 
Salt 

Mix in 2j^ cups of rolled oats, 2j4 teaspoons of baking 
powder, i tablespoon of vanilla and the whites of 2 eggs. 
Bake in a slow oven. 

44 



EGOLESS SQUASH PIE 

Crust — Line a deep pie plate with a paste made of 3 cups 
of pastry flour, Yz teaspoon of baking powder, i teaspoon of salt, 
I cup of lard and enough cold water to make paste of the right 
consistency to roll. 

Filling enough for one pie — Grind or roll 1J/2 Concord 
crackers, add i cup of milk, i cup of sifted squash, 4 tablespoons 
of sugar, Yi teaspoon cinnamon, ^ teaspoon of salt. Heat the 
milk and crackers for 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. Then 
add other ingredients and bring to a boil, stirring constantly. Put 
the filling into a lined plate and add enough cold milk to fill the 
crust. This will insure a delicate brown if put into a quick oven, 
then let it bake more slowly for J^ hour. 



45 



--OLEOMARGARINL 5AFLR THAN BUTTER,'' 

FOOD EXPERT 5AY5 

Dr. Thomas G. Hui.l Declares Prejudice Against Butter 

Substitutes Are Unfounded. 

Some of the butter substitutes are safer than butter, and 
this country should use more of these substances, as foreign 
countries do, declared Thomas G. Hull, Ph. D., of the department 
of health of the American Museum of Natural History. 

"The name 'oleomargarine' to most persons conveys some- 
thing which is to be shunned, yet they cannot give any reasons," 
he said. "These prejudices have been handed down from the 
days when unscrupulous manufacturers tried to pass off oleomar- 
garine as real butter and who were likewise none too careful of 
the ingredients. 

"From a public health standpoint oleomargarine is safer 
to-day than butter. Under the United States internal revenue 
laws not only do all products entering into its manufacture have 
to be passed by a government inspection, but every step in its 
manufacture is under strict sanitary supervision and all utensils, 
apparatus and individuals coming in contact with the product 
must be kept clean. The same cannot be said of butter manu- 
facture, where cream from any source may be used and the 
process conducted, in some instances, under circumstances far 
from ideal. 

"The following ingredients are generally used in oleomar- 
garine, though the composition varies : — 

Oleo oil 20.25 P^r cent 

Neutral lard 40.45 per cent 

Creamery butter 10.25 P^^ cent 

Milk, cream and salt 5.30 per cent 

46 



"A heavy tax is imposed when this is colored to imitate real 
butter, hence its pale color in the markets, which on many per- 
sons have a psychological effect. Other countries use a great 
oeal more oleomargarine than this country does. The con- 
sumption per capita of oleomargarine in 1909 was as follows : — , 

United States i^^ pounds 

Great Britain 814 pounds 

Holland 20 pounds 

Norway 33V^ pounds 

Denmark ". 43 pounds 

"This country may well follow the example of the other 
countries in using this product, which is not only wholesome but 
much cheaper than butter." 






47 



CAKL 

CANADA'S WAR CAKE 

2 cups brown sugar 

2 cups hot water 

2' tablespoons lard 

I package Sultana raisins 

I teaspoon salt 

I teaspoon cloves 

I teaspoon cinnamon ^ 

Boil these ingredients for 5 minutes. After they begin to 
bubble add three cups of flour and i teaspoon of soda disolved 
in I teaspoon hot water. 

Bake in two loaves 45 minutes in a slow oven. This cake 
is better at the end of a week or two, as all fruit cake. 

— Mrs. Barbour. 

BUTTERLESS, EGOLESS, MILKLESS CAKE 

Put into a sauce pan: 
I cup brown sugar 

1 cup water 

2 cups selected raisins 
1-3 cup margarine 

% cup grated nutmeg 

I teaspoon ginger 

I teaspoon cinnamon 

Pinch of salt 

Boil together 3 minutes, then cool. 

When cold add i teaspoonfiil baking soda, dissolved in hot 
water. 

Have ready 2 cups flour into which ^2 teaspoonful of bak- 
ing soda has been sifted; add the mixture in the saucepan to the 
flour and baking powder ; mix well, pour into a buttered tin and 
bake in moderate oven. 

If unable to use brown sugar, use J4 cim of syrup and J^ 
cup white sugar. — ^Miss Lothrop. 

48 



BANANAS VS BREAD 



Eat a banana and save bread. The best way to save flour 
is to stop eating bread. But such advice is worthless unless we 
know what to eat instead of bread. During the summer months 
our gardens and the cheap vegetables that flood the markets 
furnish the answer. But all the year around the banana, a tropi- 
cal fruit, which is easily and cheaply grown, can be depended 
upon very largely to furnish starch and sugar and a good supply 
of mineral salts at a price which under ordinary conditions is no 
greater than wheat flour. 



4!» 



THL RATS BIG BOARD BILL 

A Round Hundred Million Dollars Worth of Grain Is 

Annually Destroyed by Rats 

"Uncle Sam has never attempted a reliable rat 
census, but taking the country over, we do not doubt 
have a rat population of twice or thrice the hundred 
million mark. Some of our expert figuring sharps 
have arrived at the conclusion that a round hundred 
million dollars' worth of grain is destroyed annually 
by rats." 



« 



THE RATS HAVE A CORNER ON GRAIN." 



50 



WALT MASON ON "RATS" 

If we'd conserve the food supply, and have enough of com 
and rye, of wheat and oats and graham bread, to keep the fighting 
peoples fed, we'll have to arm ourselves with slats, or other tools, 
and bat the rats. We tell the housewives, in our haste, how they 
must shun the sin of waste ; we hand out language stem and wise, 
about our vital food supplies ; and busy rats beneath the bam for 
eloquence don't care a dam. They spoil more grain each passing 
day than many ships could bear away. Let's buy a million Mal- 
tese cats, and sic them on the wasteful rats. We're talking now 
of eating less — b, fine decision, I confess; but all economies are 
fakes, and give a wise man inward aches, so long as rodents are 
allowed to swarm around, a nasty crowd, and chew the grain and 
gnaw the meat, and spoil whatever they can't eat. Oh, let us 
start a big campaign against these wasters of the grain. While 
cribs and bins are full of rats, we're merely talking through our 
hats. — Waw Mason. 

Copyright, 1917, by Gejorge Matthew Adams. 
From the Boston Post. 



51 



INDEX 



Page 

CAKE 48 
Cake — ^Butterless, Eggless, Milkless 48 

Canada's War Cake 48 

CARBO-HYDRATES IN FOODS 32 

COTTAGE CHEESE ' 26 

Baked Rice and Cheese 29 

Cheese, Fried 29 

Cheese Loaf 30 

Cheese Souffle 29 

Gnocchi Romaine 29 

Macaroni Loaf 28 

Nut Roast and Cottage Cheese 27 

Semolina 30 

CORN MEAL, The Cooking of 7 

CORN MEAL, Recipes 10 

Biddy Barnstable Johnny Cake 13 

Brown Bread 13 

Corn Bread (Using Sour Milk) 12 

Corn Cake (Thin) 12 

Com Meal Dodgers 11 

Corn Meal Mush 12 

Corn Pone 12 
Corn Meal Rolls ' 10 

Corn Muffins (Eggless) 11 

Ellen's Indian Cake 13 

'* Johnny Cake" 10 

New Orleans Hoe Cake 13 

Virginia Batter Bread 14 

Virginia Spoon Bread 11 

CORN MEAL, Uses of 9 

FISH 36 

Finnan Haddie 3.8 
Fish, Five Economical Ways «f 

Preparing 36 

Fish au Gratin 37 

Fish Mousse 37 

Scalloped Fish 37 

''GRAHAM FLOUR" 15 

Breakfast* Gems 16 

Graham Bread Without Yeast 16 

Graham Gems 16 

Graham Muffins 16 

HARRY LAUDER SAYS 20 

HOOVER'S RULES 4 

INDIAN CORN, Origin of 6 

OLEOMARGARINE 46 

PLEA TO USE WAR BREAD 23 





Page 


PUDDINGS 


42 


Apple Charlotte 


42 


Baked Apples 


44 


Boiled Indian Pudding 


42 


Doughnuts 


44 


Drop Cakes 


43 


Eggless Squash Pie 


45 


Oatmeal Macaroons 


44 


Old-Fashioned Graham Flour Cookies 44 ! 


Rice Meringue 


43 


Spiced Pudding 


43 


Steamed Indian Pudding 


42 


RICE 


39 


Boiled Rice 


39 


Minced Fowl in Rice Cases 


40 


Rice Chocolate Pie 


41 


Stuffed Eggs and Rice 


40 


Rice Griddle Cakes 


40 


Rice Molasses Pie 


39 


Rice Pudding Without Eggs 


41 


Rice (Southern Fashion) 


39 


SOUPS 


33 


Bread Soup 


34 


Cabbage and Potato Soup 


34 


Connecticut Bean Porridge 


34 


Italian Vegetable Soup 


35 


Milk and Cheese Soup 


35 


Milk Soup 


34 


Mixed Vegetable Soup 


33 


SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT 


31 


Luncheon Eggs 


31 


Stuffed Eggs on Tomato 


31 


THE COOK'S DUTY 


3 


WALT MASON ON "RATS" 


51 


WAR DIET AT KING'S TABLE 


20 


Banana Bread 


24 


Bran Bread 


21 


Bread-Crumb Biscuit 


25 


Mary Swampscott Muffins 


25 


Oatmeal Bread 


21 


Oatmeal Cake 


21 


Rye Hoe Cake 


22 


Rye Short Cake 


22 


War Bread 


24 


WHOLE WHEAT BREAD 


17 


Whole Wheat Pop-Overs 


19 


Whole Wheat Muffins 


19 


Bananas vs Bread 


49 


The Rat 's Big Board Bill 


50 



} 



I- 




