Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



iiiiiuiiiiiiin 



LIPPINCOTT'S 
HOME MANUALS 




SUCCESSFUL 

CANNING AND 
PRESERVING 

OLA POWELL 



r"?fMlf!ff»l!l 



f 




"Survey our empire and behold uur home! ' 

— ^Btbon. 



LIPPINCOTT'S 

HOME MANUALS 

EDITED BY 

BENJAMIN R. ANDREWS, Ph.D. 

A88IATANT PROFESSOR OF HOUSEHOLD ECONOMICS, TEACHERS COLLKOk: 

COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY 

SUCCESSFUL CANNING 
AND PRESERMNG 

PRACTICAL HAND BOOK FOR 
SCHOOLS. CLUBS, AND HOME USE 

By OLA POWELL 

U. B. DEPARTMENT OF AORICTTLTDRE, ASSISTANT IN HUME 
OSMOM0TRATION WORK IN STATES RELATIONti SERVICE 



LIPPINCOTT'S 

HOME MANUALS 

Edited by BENJAMIN H. ANDREWS. Ph.D. 



CLOTHING FOR WOMEN 

By LALIU I. BA1,[>T. B.S. 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND 
PRESEEVING 

Bv OLA POWELI, 

<. 1(14 illiLslrutiuna in text. 
I m-t. 

IS PREf.lRATION 

HOl'SEWIFERY 

Br 1,. KAV BAlJJEItSON. B.S. 

illLLINERY 

By EVELYN SMITH TOBEY. B.S. 



LippiNCOTT's Home Manuals 

EX>ITED BY BENJAMIN R. ANDREWS. Ph.D. 
Teachers College, Columbia Uoiversity. 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING 
AND PRESERVING 

PRACTICAL HAND BOOK FOR SCHOOLS, 
CLUBS, AND HOME USE 



OLA POWELL 



i COLORED PLATES, 164 ILLUSTRATIONS IN TEXT 




PHILADELPHIA & LONDON 
J. B. LIPPINCOTT COMPANY 



TO 



YOU WHO ARE STHJVING TO " MAKE 
YOUR BEST better" MY WORK IS 
SYMPATHETICALLY DEDICATED 



*■ ", 



^ it 






PREFACE 

The canning and preserving of food products is an important 
factor in household management and of even greater importance 
in national economy, since the conservation of foodstuffs, from 
the time of production and natural time of consumption to a 
later time, makes for a more varied and adequate diet, and that 
secured at a lower economic cost. Practical success in canning, 
preserving, drying, and brining turns upon the proper applica- 
tion of the principles of science involved. The great necessity for 
scrupulous care in every step of the whole process is imperative. 
A worker who follows scientific principles and is watchful of 
sanitary conditions will have results that are uniform and sat- 
isfying. It is easy to talk of science in the abstract as applied 
to such problems, but unless one can show just how this science 
demands that the processes be conducted in order to secure suc- 
cess, such applied ** science" is mere pretence. 

Women and girls are now facing a most wonderful oppor- 
tunity for service in aiding to produce and conserve foods not 
only for home consumption, but by increasing the commercial 
products for export to Europe. The responsibility of wisely 
utilizing the yield from greatly increased acreage rests in good 
part upon the women and girls. Their work can be simplified 
and made more effective by wisely applying scientific methods. 

It is imperitive not only to produce and conserve supplies of 
foody but also to select the most economical means of keeping the 
various food products. In view of these facts, the suitability of 
canning in comparison with other means of keeping food must 
be considered. Since the public has been convinced of the con- 
venience of handling and serving canned foods, canning has be- 
come the most widely used and popular means of preserving large 
quantities of fruits and vegetables. Some products could be 
stored and sometimes prepared more economically in the home 

• • 
Vll 



— - . ,1. f 



Vlll 



PREFACE 



if conserved by other means of preservation, such as drying, 
brining and storing. 

Preserving foods by drying is a very desirable means and 
one which is especially important to practice when there exists a 
shortage of tin cans and when glass containers have advanced 
a great deal in price. 

Vegetables, such as sweet com, green string beans, peas, and 
fruits such as cherries, berries, peaches, and figs, can be dried, 
and in this state they will furnish variety and serve as a substi- 
tute for canned foods. If properly dried and stored many foods 
are attractive and wholesome. Such vegetables as cauliflower, 
cabbage, cucumbers, and chayotes are better saved in brine than 
canned. Many other vegetables may also be kept in brine. 
Legumes like peas and beans, root crops like carrots and beets, 
while attractive when canned in a succulent stage, are more 
nutritious and more economically stored when mature. 

The use of various foods in the home should be planned in 
advance, so there will be no waste, at the same time having food 
for each meal economically combined and balanced so as to nourish 
each member of the family properly. 

This book has been written to help rather than to shine, and 
if it does help, the author will be content. 

Ola Powell. 
July, 1917. 



ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

The author wishes to acknowledge her appreciation to those 
who have read and criticized the manuscript; to Mr. O. B. Mar- 
tin, Assistant in Charge of Demonstration Club Work, U. S. De- 
partment of Agriculture, for his interest and encouragement 
during the entire preparation of the manuscript; to Miss Mary 
E. Creswell, Assistant in Home Demonstration Work, U. S. De- 
partment of Agriculture, for reading and criticizing the manu- 
script, and for the interpretation of the Home Demonstration 
Work given in Chapter XIX ; to Miss Rhea C. Scott, Specialist 
in Home Demonstration Work in Louisiana, for her sympathy, in- 
terest, and assistance throughout the preparation ; to Mr. Charles 
T. Dearing, Assistant Horticulturist, U. S. Department of Agri- 
culture, for reading and criticizing the chapter on ** Fruit 
Juices"; to Dr. M. N. Straughn, Scientific Assistant, Bureau, 
of Chemistry, U. S. Department of Agriculture, for reading and 
correcting the chapter on *' Jelly Making," also for the table for 
using the Brix hydrometer in fruit juices for jelly making; to 
Miss Caroline L. Hunt, Scientific Assistant, Oflfice of Home Eco- 
nomics, U. S. Department of Agriculture, for Chapter XVII, 
**Uses of Fruits and Vegetables in the Diet"; to Mrs. Jane S. 
McKimmon, State Home Demonstration Agent in North Carolina, 
for chapter on **The Business Side of Canning"; to Frantz P. 
Lund, Specialist, States Relations Service, Department of Agri- 
culture, for valuable contributions to chapter on **Dr>nng Fruits, 
Vegetables, and Herbs"; to Mr. H. C. Thompson, Horticulturist, 
Bureau of Plant Industry, Department of Agriculture, for criti- 
cizing Chapter XV and for the information on storing garden 
and orchard products; to Dr. L. A. Round, Scientific Assistant, 
Bureau of Chemistry, Department of Agriculture, for criticizing 
chapter on ** Pickling," and for furnishing the table for making 
brines; to Dr. Albert Mann, Plant Morphologist, U. S. Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, and Dr. Albert Brubaker, Jefferson Medical 

ix 



»- —^ . I J- 



X ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

College, Philadelphia, for criticizing the chapter on ''Bac- 
teriology as Applied to Canning"; to Miss Sarah Wilson, Drexel 
Institute, Philadelphia, for criticizing the manuscript and pre- 
paring the list of questions at the end of each chapter from the 
point of view of a Home Economics teacher; to Mr. F. H. Hall, 
New York Experiment Station, for the recipe ** Making Cider 
Vinegar on the Farm"; to the U. S. Department of Agriculture 
for photographs, material quoted, $ind ideas obtained from the 
following publications: Department Bulletin No. 241, "Studies 
on Fruit Juices"; U. S. Yearbook, 1914, ** Apple Syrup and Con^ 
centrated Cider," by H. C. Gore; Farmers' Bulletin No. 644. 
** Manufacture and Use of Unfermented Grape Juice," by George 
C. Husmann; Farmers' Bulletin No. 183, **Meat on the Farm: 
Butchering, Curing arid Keeping," by Andrew Boss; for circu- 
lars from the States Relations Service, Extension Work in the 
South, prepared by Miss Mary E. Creswell and Miss Ola Powell ; 
also to Major Lawrence Foot for the use of Arkansas Extension 
Bulletin, " How to Cure, Smoke, and Keep Hams, Shoulders, and 
Baieon"; to Mr. G. L. Tiebout, Louisiana State University, for 
results of experiments in cauliflower brining; to Mr. J. A. Red- 
head, Louisiana State University, for recipe on pepper chow- 
chow; to Mrs. Dora D. Walker, Assistant State Agent in Home 
Demonstration Work in South Carolina, for recipe on **Pimiento 
Ketchup"; to Mrs. Margaret Jonas, Assistant State Agent in 
Home Demonstration Work in Kentucky, for recipe on ** Can- 
ning Cucumber Slices." A few of the recipes for use of canned 
gipods in this book are adapted from such authors as Miss Anna 
Barn)Ws, Miss Helen ^1. Spring, and Miss Fannie Farmer; some 
ate. from private sources, and others are original. 

The following books especially were consulted during the 
preparation of the material: ** Household Bacteriology," by 
Estelle D. and Robert Earle Buchanan ; * * Canning and Preserv- 
ing of Food Products with Bacteriological Technique," by E. W. 
Duckwkll; ** Complete Course in Canning," by C. L. Denning; 
''Canning and How to Use Canned Foods," by A. W. and K. G. 
Bifting; also The Trade, Baltimore, and other magazines were 
consulted. * 



ACKNOWLEDGMENTS ^ 

Assistance is acknowledged from all of the commercial con- 
cerns which have so generously contributed illustrations and in- 
formation. Thanks are also due and gratefully given to many 
others who have aided by advice, information, and encourage- 
ment. 

To Miss Carrie Harrison, of the U. S. Department of Agri- 
culture, is due the phrase used as the dedication, **To you who 
are striving to make your best better '* — ^which expresses the 
sentiment to-day animating the tens of thousands of canning club 
girls, South and North and West, as it also expresses the perennial 
spirit of the American housewife. 

Ola Powell. 
July, 1917. 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER PAGE 

I. History op the Development of Scientific Canning 1 

II. Bacteriology as Applied to Canning 15 

III. Preparation and Equipment 36 

IV. Canning in Tin 59 

V. Canning in Glass 71 

VI. Processing — Hot-Water Bath 77 

VII. Processing at High Temperature 87 

VIII. Fruit Juices 93 

IX. Fruits for Canning 124 

X. Vegetables for Canning 133 

XI. Preserves 148 

XII. Marmalades, Jams and Conserves 163 

XIII. Jelly Making 174 

XIV. Pickling 189 

XV. Drying Fruits, Vegetables and Herbs 228 

XVI. Preservation of Meats 256 

XVII. Use of Fruits and Vegetables in the Diet 275 

XVIII. Canning Club Organization 282 

XIX. The Business Side of Canning 300 

XX. Teaching Canning and Related Activities 316 

Appendix 346 

Index 353 



ILLUSTRATIONS 



COLOR PLATES 

PLATE PAGE 

Preserves Frontispiece 

I. Attractive Packs of Canned Fruits 126 

II. Attractive Pickle Packs 204 

III. Food Chart 276 

ILLUSTRATIONS IN TEXT 

FIG. 

1. Typo of Can Used about 1889 3 

2. Manufacturing Tin Cans To- Day 4 

3. Chart Showing Comparison of Value of Meat Products by States 

in 1899 and 1909 7 

4. A Chart Showing Comparison of Value of Canned and Preserved 

Products by States in 1899 and 1909 8 

5. A Processing Device for Home Canning Proposed in 1889 10 

6. Parasitic Organisms 16 

■7. Aspergillus fumigatus (Appears on Tomato Sauces and Preserves) 18 

8. Bacillus Found on Tomatoes, Showing FlagelliB 19 

9 Penicillium glaucum { x 500 ) 20 

10 Various Stages of Brewers' Yeast 21 

11. Bacillus hutyricus (Rods and Spores Found in Corn) 24 

12. Anaerobic Pea Bacillus i. 2qi 

13. Bacillus megatherium (Vegetating Forms as Found in Cans of » 

Peas) ,».. 26, 

14. (A) Can Burpted from Pressure of Gas Generated, (B) A Normal" 

Can, (C) A Swell 27. 

15. Testing the Jar Seal 28 

16. A Group of Useful IHensils for Washing, Peeling, Coring, Grating 

and Slicing Fruit and Vegetables 37 

17. Special Equipment Necessary to Obtain Most Successful and Accu- 

rate Results 37 

18. Utensils Used in Blanching and in Cooking ' 38 

19. The Processor and Rack with Jars fteaAy to be Sterilized '^'!"\39' 

20. Tongs for Handling Hot Cans ..'.'. . /. 40 

21. Cooperative Canning Minimizes Labor: Canning Clut) Girls in 

Anson County, N. C, at Wdrk 41 

22. North Carolina County Agents at Peace Institute, Raleigh, If. C. 42 



xvi ILLUSTRATIONS 

23. A Homemade Fly-Trap 43 

24. Mississippi Club Girls Building a Fly-Trap for Out-of-Door Can- 

ning 44 

25. A Convenient Arrangement for Out-of-Door Canning 45 

26. Canning Out of Doors, State Normal School^ Harrisonburg, Va.. . . 46 

27. Canning Tomatoes from the Scholarship Plot, State Normal School, 

Harrisonburg, Va 47 

28. A Kerosene Stove which Burns a Gas Flame for Heating Soldering 

Tools 47 

29. A Fire-Pot Burning Corn-Cobs for Heating Tools. A Gasoline 

Fire-Pot or Charcoal Bucket May also be Used 48 

30. A Folding Portable Canner 40 

31. Standard Sizes of Tin Containers 49 

32. Size of Cans Used for Household Purposes 50 

33. Hand Machine for Sealing Special Sanitary Cans 51 

34. Capping Steel and Tipping Copper 62 

35. A Group of Jars for Household Use 53 

36. Conmiercial Jars for Special Products 54 

37. Appropriate Containers for Exhibit Purposes 55 

38. Individual Containers 56 

39. Box of Rubbers and a Jar 57 

40. Sorting and Grading Tomatoes 61 

41. Uniform Tomatoes Together 62 

42. Scalding Tomatoes, Using a Square of Cheesecloth 63 

43. Capping 65 

44. Tipping 65 

45. Heating, Tinning, Capping, and Tipping 66 

46. Students Learnini? to Can in Tin 67 

47. Labelling 68 

4a Sterilizing Glass Jars 72 

49. Packing Uniform Pieces of Rliuharb 72 

50. Well-Packed Jar of Peaches 73 

51. Paddles 74 

52. Canning in Glass on Campus of Peabody College for Teachers, 

Nashville, Tenn 75 

53. An Ordinary Bucket Used as a Processor 78 

54. A Wash-Boiler with False Bottom Makes a Convenient Processor. 78 

55. Canner Made of Tubs for Outdoor Use 79 

66. A Homemade Canner with Brick Fire-Box and Tub 80 

57. Showing Construction of a Hot- Water Canner 81 

68. A Kerosene Stove Burning a Gas Flame 82 

69. A Foldinff Two-Burner Gasoline Stove 82 

60. Tank Fitting Inside 82 

61. A Steam Retort for Home Canning 88 



_ ♦ 



ILLUSTRATIONS XVn 

i2. A Steam Retort for Home Camiing 88 

<(3. Another Type, Known as the Water Seal Canner 88 

64. Another Steam-Pressure Outfit for Home Canning 89 

6i. Pressure Cooker 90 

66. Commercial Retorts where the Steam is Piped in from the Boiler 91 

67. Household Fruit-Juice Press 94 

68. Cloth Press Being Twisted 95 

69. Construction of a Homemade Fruit Press 96 

70. Fruit Press Ready for Use 97 

71. Fruit Press in Use 97 

72. A Homemade Fruit-Juice Filter 98 

73. Bottling Fruit Juice 99 

74. Making Sealing Wax 101 

75. Screw-Cap Bottle 102 

76. A Hand Bottle Sealing Machine 102 

77. Utensils Used in Making Muscadine Syrup 107 

78. Making Vinegar on the Farm 116 

79. Fig Packs 127 

80. Attractive Packs of Canned Fruits: (a) Berries, (6) Pears, (o) 

Fruit Salad 127 

81. A Balling Hydrometer 128 

82. A Brass Cup which Can be Used in Place of Glass Cylinder for 

Testing Density of Syrup and Brine 129 

83. A Demonstration in Canning, Florida 130 

84. Cleansing Rubber Ring 131 

86. Fancy Packs of Canned Vegetables: (A) Baby Beets, (B) Carrot 

Circles, (C) Log-Cabin Pack of Beans, (D) Concentrated Soup 

Mixture, {E) Okra 136 

86. Roasting and Packing Pimientos 141 

87. Attractive Pepper Packs 142 

88. Tomatoes Packed for Salad 144 

89. Vegetables Packed Fresh for Soup Mixture 146 

90. Packing Watermelon Rind Preserves 149 

91. A Chemical Thermometer — Centigrade 150 

92. Cooling and Plumping Preserved Fruits 151 

93. Packing Preserved Figs, Walton County, Fla 152 

94. Only Freshly Picked Berries Should be Preserved 153 

95. A Steam -Jacketed Preserving Kettle 161 

96. Guava Paste, Served with Cheese and Crackers 172 

97. A Commercial Jelly Strainer Placed on a Chair Back 175 

98. A Commercial Jelly Strainer Placed on a Table 175 

99. Alcohol Test for Pectin in Fruit Juices 170 

100. Testing Fruit Juice for Pectin 176 

101. A Saccharometer Floating in a 250-c.c. Cylinder 177 



xviii ILLUSTRATIONS 

102. Jellometer for Testing Fruit Juices in Jelly Making 180 

103. Making Strawberry and Orange Pectin Jelly 181 

104A. First Test Shows Drops of Syrup 182 

104B. Finished Test Sliows Jelly Flaking or Sheeting from the Paddle. 182 
105. A Coffee Pot is a Convenient Utensil for Melting and Pouring the 

Paraffin 184 

100. A Few Good Glasses of Jelly Ready to Store 186 

107. Fancy Jellies 187 

108. Brine Hydrometer 192 

109. Brining Equipment 193 

110. Sealing a Crock with a Band of Cheesecloth Dipped into Boiling 

Paraffin 195 

111. A Few Pickle Packs 197 

112. Preparation of Vegetables for Mixed Pickles 200 

113. A Fancy Pack of Mixed Pickles 202 

114. Packing Pickles with Paddles 203 

115. Making Dixie Relish and Stuffing Pepper Mangoes 204 

116. Brining Onions 216 

1 17. Drying Raspberries 232 

118. A Homemade Drier 232 

119. A Reflector Drier 234 

120. {A) Homemade Cook-Stove Drier, (B) Sectional View, Showing 

the Passage of tlie Heated Air 235 

121. Sliced Apples on a Wooden Tray 238 

122. Drying Figs in California 239 

123. Drying Peaches in California. Trays Stacked for Finishing Off. 239 

124. Cutting a Pork 261 

125. Trimming Haras 261 

120. Picnic Hams Properly Trimmed 261 

127. A Well-Trimmed Ham 262 

128. A Well-Trimmed Breakfast Bacon 262 

129. Grinding Sausage Meat the Second Time after Seasoning is Added. 267 

130. Roast with Vegetable Madedoine Garnish 278 

131. Fruit Macedoine 279 

132. A Glass of Currant Jelly 279 

133. Canned Asparagus and Pepper Salad 280 

134. T^g-Cabin Salad Made from Canned Beans 280 

135. The Home Women, as Described by D. F. Houston, Secretary of 

Agriculture 286 

130. A Comfortable Garden Uniform 287 

137. Another Style of Garden Uniform 288 

138. Garden Uniform 289 

139. A North Carolina Canning Club at Work 304 

140. Properly Labelled Jars 308 



r 



ILLUSTRATIONS xix 

141. Standard Packs in Tin 308 

142. North Carolina County Agent Attending Canning School and Con- 

ference, 11)15 313 

143. A Cultivated City Vacant Lot in Pliiladelpliia 322 

144. A Training Farm in Cleveland, Ohio 323 

145. A Cooperative Neighborhood (iardeii in Philadelphia. Pa 324 

14(5. A Tomato Plot in (ieauga County, Ohio 325 

147. Harvest Home Kxliihit, Willard Srhool. Clevehiiul. Oliio, IHIO... 320 

148. Harvest Home Kxhibit in Willard School, Cleveland, Ohio, 1011. . . 327 

149. A Teii-Year-Old Member with Her Kxhibit from a Tinv Plot, 

18 X 22 Feet 328 

150. Senior Class at Harrisonburg Normal Sehool, Va., Cultivating and 

Spraying ilieir Plants 320 

151. Staking and Tying Plants 320 

152. Prize Winning Short Course (iirls Pruning Tomato Plants 330 

1.53. Senior Class Receiving Instruction^ in Canning 331 

154. Students* Display of C anni ng Pnnhu'ts from the Seholarship Plot. 331 

155. Tomato Plot Cultivated by Senior Class at Hattieslmrg Normal 

School, Mi»sissipi)i 332 

156. Plan of lUiilding Csed f(»r Canning at State Industrial College, 

Denton, Texas 332 

157. A North Carolina Kxliibit of First- Year Products 335 

158. A Parish Exliil)it in Louisiana 336 

150. A Miniature Exhi!)it Suggested as a Plan for a Fair 337 

160. A Carefullv Planned Kxhibit .3.38 

161. Judging (^anned Tomatoes and Heans 339 

162. Tliis Cow Has Proved to be a Wonderful Prize for this Tennessee 

Girl 340 

163. Oardening Set: Kneeling Pad and Apron for Tools 341 



SUCCESSFUL 
CANNING AND PRESERVING 



CHAPTER I 

HISTORY OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF SCIENTIFIC 

CANNING 

Most great industries have existed in some form for a long 
period of time, but the preservation of foodstuffs by canning is 
distinctly a modern art. ^len turned their thoughts at a very 
early time to devising means of preventing foods from spoiling, 
but until the beginning of the nineteenth centuiy the only 
methods employed to this end were drying, pickling, smoking, 
and preserving in sugar. 

French Government First to Discover Method. — The wars 
of Napoleon were directly responsible for the discovery of the 
efficacy of the hermetic sealing of foods in order to keep them. 
Near the end of the eighteenth century a prize w^as offered by 
the French Government for the most practical method of pre- 
serving foods for sea service and militaiy stores. M. Nicholas 
Appert, of Paris, w^as stimulated by this offer of a reward and 
began experimenting. He w^orked from 1795 until 1809, when 
he submitted to his government a treatise on the means of pre- 
serving foods. During this year he was awarded the prize of 
twelve thousand francs. In 1810 he publislied the results of his 
experiments. 

Appert's Method. — His method was t^ enclose fruit, after 
heating it, in a glass bottle, which was then corked and sub- 
jected to action of boiling water. The bottle was placed in a 
water-bath and was heated very gradually for varying lengths of 
time, depending upon the character of the food. Appert did not 
know why foods kept when treated according to his method. He 
believed that air was the destructive agent and that its exclusion 



2 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

alone would preserve food which had been cooked. In his 
treatise he wrote: ** Absolute privation of the contact of external 
air is necessary after the internal air is rendered of no effect by 
proper application of heat by means of a water-bath. ' ' 

Past Experiences a Background for Work. — ^Appert's wide 
experience in life excellently equipped him to solve the problem to 
which he had applied himself so devotedly. He had for nearly 
fifty years been dealing with various lines of food preservation, 
working as a pickler, a preserver, an expert confectioner, a 
brewer, a distiller, and a chef. He continued his efforts, using 
many different products, and so perfected the art of canning in 
glass that it is difficult to surpass it even in these times with all 
our modem appliances. His simple utensils and process-room 
might provoke a smile to-day, for science had in his day not 
really determined why canned food kept ; though his explanation 
has proved to be wrong, his methods, oddly enough, worked. 

Investigations Made by Guy Lussac. — Conclusions drawn 
by Guy Lussac, an eminent French chemist, who was employed 
by his government to investigate this matter, coincided with 
what appeared to be the controlling factor in the practice of can- 
ning. He reported that spoiling of food was due to a series of 
oxidation changes, and that by excluding the air these changes 
could be prevented and the food saved. This theory was ac- 
cepted, and the true explanation of the matter was not known 
until the advent of the new science of bacteriology. Since the 
principle of Appert's methods has been shown by time and ex- 
perience to be correct, it is that on which all canning and pre- 
serving have since been done. He is regarded as the father of 
an art which has proved a boon to all mankind. The French 
Government has erected a monument to perpetuate his memory. 
His method was so simple that others began using it very soon, 
and before 1830 it was put into commercial practice. Appert used 
an open water-bath for heating his bottles, and this method is 
one in common use to-day in home canneries. This information 
on canning was desired primarily for military and naval stores, 
but the advantage of having food preserved in this manner at- 
tracted considerable attention to its use in the home. 



mSTORY OF SCIENTIFIC CANNING 



Canning Begun in England. — Id 1S07 a paper was submitted 
by Mr. Sadding to the English Society of Arts, under the title "A 
Method of Preserving Fruits Without Sugar for House and Sea 
Stores." It is believed that this knowledge of the general prin- 
ciples was obtained from Appert while Sadding was travelling 
in Prance. About the 
same time Peter Dur- 
rand obtained a patent 
in England for preserv- 
ing meat, fruit, and 
vegetables in tin cans. 

D&VEUIPUENT OF THE 
TIK CONTAINER 

The canning indus- 
try from this time on 
depended a great deal 
on the can ; in fact, 
took its name ' ' c 
ning" from it. The ap- 
paratus for manufactur- 
ing tin cans was at firsl 
very crude. The bodies 
were cut with shears 
and the side seams made 
with a plumb joint and 
then soldered together. 
A weight was pulled up 
to the ceiling and al- 
lowed to drop upon a ^"^ '— Typeofti 
sheet of tin in order to cut tops and bottoms of the cans. The 
die was cast on the under side of the weight, and the opposite die 
was cast in a piece of metal below. The forming of these pieces 
depended on the weight being properly guided, therefore the proc- 
ess was slow and difficult. Heads or caps were made to set into 
the body and were soldered in place by hand in a very primitive 




D uKd sbout 1S89. 



i SUCUESSKUL CANN1K(J AKD PUKSEKVING 

way. Necessity haa never more truly proved its title, "The 
Mother of Invention," than in the canning line (Fig. 1). These 
cans were about the size of a No. 2 can, escept tliat they were 
taller. From the crude homemade e.\periraental apparatus there 
have been developed for the purpose of the canner all sorts of 
machinery and appliances. Now all parts of the can are made by 
labor-saving machinery and put together by machinery. This 
method reduces their cost enormously (Pig. 2). Commercial 




to-do>'. (HolDiCo,) 



bouses abandoned glass in favor of tin cans because they would 
withstand extremes of temperature and the initial cost was less. 
The transportation both ways on the tin can was less costly and 
the loss from breakage was eliminated. Tin is probably the con- 
tainer used almost universally by eanncrs now, although glass is 
popular in the more exclusive canning and preserving kitchens 
where very choice special products are put up into fancy packs. 
The Real Cause of Putrefaction. — During the time of Tyndall 
and Pasteur, 1822 to 1895, the real cause of putrefaction was 



HISTORY OF SCIENTIFIC CANNING f; 



o 



determined to be living microorganisms which come in contact 
with the material which ** spoils." To these men belongs the 
honor of discovering the fundamental principles involved. Now- 
adays it is understood that the mere presence or absence of air in 
a can is a matter of no importance in itself. Air plays no im- 
portant part in putrefaction save as a carrier of living things, 
which are commonly and popularly spoken of as germs, microbes, 
microorganisms, or bacteria. All of tiiese terms are used some- 
what indiscriminately and all mean practically the same thing. 

DEVELOPMENT OF COMMERCIAL CANNING IX AMERICA 

The canning industry was established in the United States by 
Ezra Daggett, in 1819. He had learned the trade before emi- 
grating to this country, and packed salmon, lobsters, and oysters 
in New York. The records show that William ITnderwood packed 
preserves and table condiments in glass as early as 1821, in Bos- 
ton, and in 1835 he packed tomatoes in glass. The records also 
show that William Underwood shipped his goods to South 
America in 1821. In 1837 Isaac Winslow began experimenting 
with the canning of com in l^ortland, Maine. There is probably 
no earlier record of canning in tin in this country than the work 
of I^aac Winslow. Corn was first canned on the cob. This 
Pfeved unsatisfactory on account of the bulk, and it was thought 
the cob absorbed some of the sweetness from the kernels. Maine 
was tHe home of the com canning, and is still so considered. The 
first cannery in Baltimore was opened about 1840. The canning 
of com, tomatoes, and fruits was started in Cincinnati, Ohio, 
about 1860. The growth of the industry was very rapid. New 
canneries sprang up like mushrooms in various parts of the coun- 
try, and unskilled men vied with the older packers in the quantity 
put out. This rapid growth resulted in the formation of Can- 
ners' Associations, the development of which led to new and bettor 
methods of work. 

The question of preservation of food is one of the most inter- 
esting and important in the whole field of applied science. H. L. 
Russell, of the TJniversitv of Wisconsin, was the first man in this 
country to apply the science of bacteriology to canning, in 1895, 



6 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

and in 1896, Prof. S. C. Prescott, of the Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology, and W. L. Underwood, of Boston, began investigar 
tions regarding the bacteriological technique of canning. Until 
this time the commercial art of canning was a mixed lot of theory 
hedged about by mystery. 

Theory of Canning Not Understood. — ^Factories were jeal- 
ously guarded. It was almost impassible for an outsider to gain 
admission. The canner really knew so little about the science 
that he felt compelled to guard carefully his ignorance. He 
tried to throw a glamour of secrecy over nearly every move- 
ment simply through caution to protect what little good informa- 
tion he possessed regarding the process of canning. The uncer- 
tainty and the possibilities that losses might occur were a constant 
source of worry and uneasiness to a great many who were en- 
gaged in the canning business. The general public had a very 
vague knowledge in regard to bacteria. Most people associated 
them only with disease. Canners were loath to have the subject 
of canning connected with germs, because they believed this 
would frighten people, who would then not wish to eat any more 
canned goods. If a season came in which bacteria seemed un- 
usually prevalent, the canners considered it most mysterious and 
attributed it to the ** strange season.*' Since science has brought 
to us the knowledge of microorganisms the lines of attack have 
become more clearly marked, and with the modern weapons to 
combat the foe we can fight the war against bacteria with safety 
and assurance of success. The pnncipal weapon of defence 
against bacterial action is the practice of most scnipulous cleanli- 
ness ; just as modern surgery depends upon absolute cleanliness. 
Like most other manufacturing industries carried on by enter- 
prising men, the process of canning has undergone complete 
change as the scientific principles involved have come to be under- 
stood and to be given a controlling power over the practical proc- 
esses involved. 

Location of Industry (Figs. 3 and 4). — ^Large quantities of 
vegetables, meat, and fish are preserved along the Atlantic Coast ; 
much of the salmon supply is canned in Oregon and Washington ; 
meats are put up largely in Chicago and Kansas City, and fruits 



HISTORY OF SCIENTIFIC CANNING 



and vegetables of the highest grade are packed in California, 
Hawaii, and New York. Maryland and New Jersey rank very 
high in the production of canned tomatoes. Maine and Illinois 
lead in corn canning. The development in the canning industry 
in the ten-year period is shown in the accompanying charts and 
is largely due to improved machinery. 



MILLIONS OF DOLLARS 



Illinois 
Kansas 
NevO York 
Nebraska 
Missouri 

lovOa 

Penmulihnik 

Ohio 

Indiana 

MassachuseHs 

Texas 

NeulJersey 

California 

Wisconsin 

Minnesota 

Washington 
Maryland 

ffichiyan 



fOO 



xco 



J«tf 



'■///'//t/' ///ff/// ///f///ttttiiinmitfif;titiinitfttt/tt*»//> 



*'99tttt909$t9t9t 






tetie^seeiSiei 







Fio. 3. — Chart showing romparison of value of meat products by states in 1899 and 1909, 

(Thirteenth Census of U.S.. Vol. VIII. 1910.) 

A striking illustration of growth in the canning industry is 
the rapid development of the pineapple canning in the Hawaiian 
Islands indicated by the following table: 

1901 2,000 cases 

1908 410,000 cases 

1913 1,667,000 cases 

This volume of business is the combined output of ten sepa- 
rate companies. These results show the quick appreciation of 
a really good product by the consuming public. In the first can- 



8 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 




ning large quantities of juice were lost when the prime ripe fruit 
was sliced. Recently it has been discovered that the juice con- 
tains seven per cent of sugar and can be concentrated and used 
for syrup in canning pineapple, thus saving the purchase of large 
quantities of sugar. 

Better Equipment Invented. — ^When corn canning was first 
begun, the corn was cut from the cob with a common case-knife ; 

Mn.LIONS OP DOLLARS 

California 

New ybrh 

Man/land 

Wasninfton 

PennsylOanii 

Indiana 

Maine 

Illinois 

Hassachusells 

Michigan 
Wisconsin 

Ohio 

Nev9 Jerseif 

Orecron 

Iowa 

Delaviare 
HentucfiU 

Virqima 

Missouri 

Colorado 

Minnesota 

Utah 

Fia. 4. — A chart showing comparison of value of canned and preserved products by states 
in 1899 and 1909. (Thirteenth Census of U. S.. Vol. VIII. 1910.) 

then came the use of a curved form shaped to the ear. At this 
stage of development ** cutters" were the most numerous body of 
workmen about the factory. For instance, in 1869, 800 hands 
were employed in a factory : 375 were cutters and about 100 busk- 
ers. Machines run by liand came in about 1875. Power machines 
came into use about 1886. Much improvement has been made on 
all machinery since that date. In canning corn, for example, 
among the most important machinery are those which husk the 



1909 

mss^tv99 



HISTORY OF SCIENTIFIC CANNING 9 

com, take off the silk, cut kernels from the cob, fill the cans, seal 
the cans, put on labels, etc. Different machines are made to fit 
into the work of other machines so the various processes of han- 
dling one product will be continuous. These machines are now 
perfected in all details and are operated automatically. The 
capacity is immense for carrying products through the different 
departments in a very short time. 

Processing Methods (Fig. 5). — In the early days of this in- 
dustry the open-kettle method was used. The highest obtainable 
temperature was 212^ Fahrenheit, the temperature of boiling 
water. It was soon realized that a higher temperature would kill 
more ** germs" and insure more successful results in a shorter 
length of time. A little later a higher degree of temperature was 
secured by the addition of common salt to the water-bath. Fol- 
lowing this another method of obtaining a higher degree of heat 
came into favor. It was found that by adding chloride of cal- 
cium to water the specific gravity of water was increased and a 
temperature of 240' Fahrenheit was obtainable without ebulli- 
tion. The advantage claimed for this method was that it was 
fuel-saving and labor-saving. Under this process, however, the 
cans became discolored and considerable expense was incurred in 
cleaning them. With the coming of the "steam-jacketed'' copper 
kettles and the ^V'losed- process'' kettle these previously described 
methods of sterilizing were abandoned, except for the plain water- 
bath, which is still in use. The steam-jacketed kettle is one in 
which a kettle is surrounded by a metallic chamber like the com- 
mon double-boiler kettle, except that the outer chamber is air- 
tight and superheated steam is piped into it from a boiler, thus 
raising the temperature of the cooking kettle considerably above 
212°. Such steam- jacketed kettles are commonly used in large- 
quantity cookery, as in hotel kitchens and industries like dyeing 
and soap making, as well as in canning. The closed-process kettle 
is simply a kettle for boiling which can itself be closed tightly so 
as to prevent all escape of steam; the heat which ordinarily 
escapes from the water as the steam arises is thus kept within the 
water and in the superheated body of steam in the closed cham- 
ber above it, and so the temperature rises above 212° With the 



10 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



introduetioQ of steam retorts in 1897 the time f<»r sterilizing was 
ehortened. Next came the present style of kettle and dry steam. 
Latest Processor. — The agitating cooker is perhaps the latest 
development. Bul^ starch products are poor conductors of 
heat, and it requires a long time for the heat to penetrate to the 
center of the contents. The time for processing can be greatly 
reduced by causing the cans to roll over and over in such a man- 




ner that the liquid present within each can will be carried more 
quickly through the mass and the contents will be gently moved 
to the inside surface of the can, where they become heated more 
rapidly. It is necessary that this agitation be slow and even. 

Other Labor-saving Devices. — There are machines for almost 
every step of the handling of different fruits and vegetables for 
canning; conveyors, sheet-iron tunnels where jets of water are 
constantly running to wash the product, sorters, peelers, slicers, 
BUers, and cappers; these and many other machines are avail- 



mSTORY OF SCIENTIFIC CANNING H 

able, and all are labor-saving and space-saving as well. The result 
of this application of machines and power is that a great quantity 
of products can be handled in a very short time. 

Greater Demand for Canned Foods. — In 1890 there were 
about one thousand establishments engaged in this industry and 
the value of the output was a little less than $45,000,000. In 
1916 the output for domestic consumption was thirteen times this 
amount. The consumption of canned products has increased 
yearly, largely because the prices have been reduced as the com- 
mercial process has been perfected, thus coming within reach of 
a larger number of people. It has been said that in 1857 a quart 
of tomatoes sold for 50 cents and a quart of peaches for $1. 
Nathan Winslow sold to Samuel S. Pierce, of Boston, one dozen 
canisters of preserved corn for $4 in February, 1848. The public 
has been informed through reports and investigations and 
through the advertising world that the conditions under which 
reliable concerns work are sanitary and that canned food prod- 
ucts are as desirable in their place as are fresh foods ; the more 
the public becomes aware of these facts the greater is the demand 
for this class of food. Reduced prices and a buying public 
educated to the real value of canned foods explain the greater 
demand for them. 

Consumption and Estimated Value of Canned Foods in 
1916. — A report which was given at the annual meeting of the 
National Canners' Association in Louisville, Ky., in February, 
1916, will be of interest here to show, to some extent, the use of 
canned food in the United States. Three billion cans of food are 
retailed yearly at about $600,000,000. The consumption of com 
is estimated to be 100,000,000 cans annually ; of peas, 200,000,000, 
and of tomatoes, 350,000,000. New York City spends yearly at 
retail over $64,000,000 for milk, $45,000,000 for bread, $45,000,- 
000 for eggs, and for canned goods over $150,000,000 — almost as 
much as for milk, bread, and eggs combined. In 1916 the report 
of the Canning Club girls and Home Demonstration Clubs in the 
South showed 3,318,481 containers put up for home use and for 
the market. In the North and West 7903 Canning Club members 
put up 201,306 containers in 1916. This is, of course, only a very 



12 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESEUVINO 

small percentage of the full amount of such products put up in 
the homes of the country. The economic significance of the use of 
canned foods has grown to such proportions that it cannot be 
ignored by the housewife or by the nation. 

It is important to have vegetables and fruits in the diet, but 
it is impossible to have them fresh at all seasons, especially with 
the difficulty of distribution and transportation of foods in thickly 
populated areas. The problem of extending the supplies from 
season to season must necessarily be met by preservation of foods. 
The composition and their importance in the diet place them 
among staple foods rather than as accessories in the diet. A 
judicious amount of fruits, vegetables, meats, and whole cereals 
mingled with the canned products will doubtless furnish the 
necessary supply of ** vitamins, '' growth-promoting substances, 
which recent investigations indicate are essential to good health. 

United States Government Publication. — The United States 
Government has many persons employed to work out some of the 
problems that perplex the preservers of food. These people have 
been studying for years and experimenting along these lines. Bul- 
letins have been printed on the subject which can be secured 
free, or at a very small cost. Many housekeepers are now eagerly 
seeking this information. Laws also have been passed to attempt 
to regulate the methods of preparation of canned foods. People 
have gradually acquainted themselves with the ways in which 
bacteria work for our good or ill, and it is no longer necessary 
to whisper when discussing their effect on canned goods. It is 
known that useful ** germs*' greatly outnumber the harmful 
ones. Since we could not exist without the action of bacteria, we 
must regard them as our friends rather than our foes, even though 
there are a few species which might do us injury. 

QUESTIONS 

1. What proof can you give that canned goods hold to-day a large place 

in the food supply of our large cities as well as in portions of the 
country remote from the centers of population ? 

2. Why is it impossible to collect statistics of the value of the foods 

canned annually in the United States? 



HISTORY OF SCIENTIFIC CANNING 13 

3. VVhy is the study of the canning of foods a legitimate work for the 

United States Government? 

4. What large classes in the community may be lielped by the knowledge 

of canning disseminated by the government? 

5. What forces have made possible the extensive use of canned foods? 

6. What has determined the locations of the canneries? 

7. State chronologically the different processing methods used, giving a 

brief explanation of each. 

8. What is the principle to which each process conforms? 

9. To what science are we indebted for the explanation of the results ob- 

tained in canning? 

10. What is the meaning of putrefaction? What is its cause? 

11. To whom are we indobted for the explanation of putrefaction? To 

whom indebted for the application of scientific explanations to can- 
ning? 

12. To whom are we indebted for the discovery of canning? What his- 

torical events led to this discovery? Give approximate date. 

HIRLIOGRAPHV 

1. Bitting, A. W. and K. G., *' Canning and How to Use Canned Foods," 

1916. National Canners' Association, Washington, D. C. 30 cents. 

2. Bureau of the Census, Statistics for Canning and Preserving, 1910, 

Thirteenth Census of tlie United States Manufacturers, 1909. Can 
be purchased from the Superintendent of Documents, Government 
Printing Office, Washington, D. C. 5 cents. 

3. CoBBETT, Florence R., *' Fruits and Vegetables," Technical Education 

Bulletin No. 18, February. IDl.i. Teachers College, Columbia Uni- 
versity, New York City, N. Y. 10 cents. 

4. Demino, Olin Lee, '* Science and Experiment as Applied to Canning," 

1902. Sprague Canning Maeliinery Company, Chicago, 111. 

5. DucKWALL, Edward Wiley, '* Canning and Preserving of Food Products 

with Bacteriological Teclmique," 1905. Pittsburgh Printing Com- 
pany, Pittsburgh, Pa. $0. 

6. FiSHEB, Irving, and Fisk, E. L., '' How to Live," 1915. The Funk & 

Wagnalls Company, New York City, N. Y. $1. 

7. Hunt, A. L., " Canning and Preserving," Twelfth Census of the United 

States Manufacturers, vol. 9, part 3, 1900, pages 461 to 514. Super- 
intendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, 
D.C. 

8. Mendel, Lafayette Benedict, " Changes in the Food Supply and 

Their Relation to Nutrition," 1916. Yale University Press, New 
Haven, Conn. 50 cents. 

9. Mendel, Lafayette Benedict, ** Childhood and Growth," 1906. The 

F. A. Stokes Company, New York City, N. Y. 60 cents. 



14 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



The Marmillan Com- 



10. Shebuak, Heubt Clapp, " Food Products," 

pany, Kew York City, N. Y. J2.25. 

11. SuBiv^ J. Aimus, "Pineapple Canning Industry of the World." 

Bureau of Foreign and Domeatic Commerce, U. S. Department of 

12. The Fierce Publishing Company, Inc., The National Food Magagine, 

45 W«st Thirty-fourth Street, New York Qty, N. Y. «1.60 a year. 

13. The Trade Company, Baltimore, Md., The Canning Trade (a magmsjne), 

almanac of the canning industry. |3. 

14. VtiLTE, Herkan Theodore, and Vajidebbilt, Sadie Bird, " Food In- 

dustries," 1016. Chemical Publishing Company, Eaaton, Fa. 92. 

15. Ward, ABTEMAa, Grocers' Eneyetopvdia, 1!11l. Artemaa Ward, 60 

Union ajuare, Xew York City, N. Y. »10. 



CHAPTER II 
BACTERIOLOGY AS APPLIED TO CANNING 

Scientists have established beyond a doubt that the decom- 
position of food is due to the presence of living organisms which 
cause fermentation and putrefaction. These organisms are 
molds, yeasts, and bacteria and belong to the lowest order of 
plants. The presence of all or any of these types of germs on food 
is the principal cause of its spoiling. Similar microorganisms 
exist in teeming millions and are present everywhere. They are 
in the water we drink, in the soil, floating about in the air we 
breathe, and on all objects. All of these except mold are so 
minute as to be invisible without the aid of a microscope. 
Molds, yeasts, and bacteria differ from the plants with which we 
are more familiar in that they are unable to manufacture their 
own food out of the air and the soil as the green plants do. These 
types contain no chlorophyll or green coloring matter, and must 
therefore get their food from substances already built up by 
higher plants or animals. These colorless plants are generally 
grouped by botanists under the division ** fungi,*' though the 
bacteria are strictly separated from the yeasts and molds. Both 
the chlorophyll-bearing and the colorless plants embrace those 
that are parasites and others that are saprophytes. The para- 
sites live upon live animals and plants; the saprophytes live 
upon dead animals and plants, and it is this class, therefore, 
which concerns us in canning. 

Some people do canning and preserving of foods successfully 
with little knowledge of these germs, but to know something about 
these minute forms of life, which are so abundant everywhere, 
will make the work more interesting. When it is understood 
why foods keep, uniform results may be more easily obtained. 

Molds. — The molds, unlike yeasts and bacteria, are visible to 

15 




, vxoaporium; mv, myceliuD 

iR hyphm of Mvror, rrowiafi from hDnc-dunf. 

• '• '■—1. C, D, E. aurce»i«liIMMiDlh 

not Mucor. Flo, G.Crrniin.lin 

° Fio.'i.'' fCfp"™ 



lumBlU: 
B. ThFui 



Ilium, Fio. F. iBoIated n _. . -, 

FiQ. B. Sucmnvs (Laiea in Ihe rorminilion of ■ dnfls yjore. Fid«, I. J, K, Buc- 
i phun in the eonjucative pronu of Mucor, Fin, 1.. SucrtwiTti >(*«« obKrvni 
: trnboun Id the (ruvtb of KCoDidiaphonDl FmicifliumioBD object-id ■ncullunXD. 4), 



BACTERIOLOGY OF CANNING 17 

the naked eye. They are considered first because most house- 
keepers and students in home economics are familiar with them in 
their growing stage. Molds require oxygen, considerable moisture 
and heat, and use sugar and starches as food ; moreover, they can 
grow in the presence of acids. They thrive in damp, dark places 
where there is little or no circulation of air. Because they have 
the ability to grow in acids molds readily attack fruits and to- 
matoes. At first in general appearance molds are gray, soft, and 
fluffy; later they show colors, as blue, green, brown, black, or 
yellow. The color appears when the molds are reproducing. 
Under a microscope the minute, thread-like mass of mold found 
upon jelly or bread shows a mycelium or root-like structure ex- 
tending into the food upon which it grows. The upward-growing 
branches bear special spore organs which contain thousands of 
seed-like spores. The spores drop from the mold plant and float 
unseen to other places. Tliey grow with great rapidity. The 
kinds reproducing yellow and green spores are sometimes found 
on jellies, preserves, and dry meats. They are first green and 
then yellow. Brown mold is found in putrefaction of fruit. Cer- 
tain types of food materials, particularly the fniits, are most apt 
to be attacked by molds such as Penicillium and Aspergillus (Figs. 
7 and 9). These molds do not develop unlesn; there is oxygen pres- 
ent. These mold spores being abundant in the air, it is impossible 
to leave food exposed without having a number of living spores 
fall upon it. If fruit is opened, partly used, and the jar is simply 
covered again, the fruit will soon mold, due to the mold spores 
which enter while it is open. If this fruit is to be kept it should 
be reheated and sealed to exclude the air. Usually the mold is 
confined to the surface, but the decomposition products of its 
growth frequently penetrate and flavor the whole mass. At one 
time it was believed by some housekeepers that a thick layer of 
mold on the top of crocks and jare containing jams and pre- 
serves was a good indication of its keeping, because this layer of 
mold excluded the air from the contents in the lower part of the 
container. When these jars were opened it was necessary to 
throw away several inches of the food which was next to the mold 
and sometimes nearly half of it. As the food stood with this 
2 



18 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



heavy layer of mold the odors and fiavor permeated the balance 
of the contents of the jar, and the product when served was not 
so palatable and wholesome as it would have been had it l>een 
scaled air-tight and processed when first put up (Fig. 8). In 
addition, all waste of food is thus avoided. 

Mollis are easily killed by moist heat. A temperature of 160° 
to IHO" Fahrenheit will be sufficient to kill all mold. When food 




is sterilized, packed into jars or cans, and sealed immediately to 
protect it, mold will not appear so loiip as the containers remain 
air-tight. If the top of jelly is wiped off with alcohol this will 
kill some of the spores. Sometimes a circular disc of paper which 
has been dipped into alcohol is placed over the jelly before tlie 
cap is placed on the ^lass. Often a thin layer of melted paraffin 
is poured over the top of the jelly. Either method will kill any 
mold spores which raiRlii have fallen on the jelly while it was 



BACTERIOLOGY OF CANNING 



19 



open aud cooling. Immediately after so treating tlie jelly it 
.should be eovered to exclude tlie air {Figs. 6 and 9). 

Yeast. — The yeast plants are not difScult to eontrol in can- 
ning. Yeasts are the natural agents wliieh produce fermenta- 
tion. As this word is commonly nsed it refers to the process by 








which alcoholic liquors are produced from sugar solutioiLs. Fer- 
mentation is the basis of producing stimulating beverages. 
Methods of raising yeast bread are also examples of fermentation. 
It is always the sugars present in these substances which undergo 
the fermentation. 

Yeasts are one-celled plants. They reproduce by budding; 
that is, by the growth of a bud on the side of the cell. This bud 



20 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRKSERVINO 



becomes fully developed very quickly aiid separates itself from 
the mother-cell, and after attaining the adult stage begins to 
reproduce itself in a similar manner. Yeasts, under adverse con- 
ditions, sometimes reproduce by forming spores within the cells. 
The cell bursts and the wind carries the spores everywhere. The 
use of yeast in bread making is familiar. When given food (in 
form of sugar), warmth, moisture, and air, yeasts grow, breaking 
up the sugar and producing a gas, called carbon dioxide, and 
alcohol. Bubbles of this gas may be seen when a can of fruit fer- 




ments, tjince yeasts are abundant in the air and on the skins 
of fruits and vegetables, it is always necessary botli to destroy 
thom on the food being canned and to prevent their further en- 
trance into the sterilized foods by sealing the containers air- 
tight. Yeasts are easily killed by moist heat at a temperature of 
160° to 190° Fahrenheit. Occasionally spores, which are more 
resistant than active plants, maj- be present. The organisms de- 
scribed above are not difficult to cimtrol (Fig. 10). 

Bacteria. — Bacteria arc the mast serious foes to combat in 
canning because they are more diftieult to kill by heat than 
eitJier molds or yeasts. They are present everywhere in enormous 



BACTERIOLOGY OF CANNING 



21 





numbers. They are also unicellular plants, but are smaller than 
yeasts. A young bacterium cell attains full size and acquires the 
capacity to reproduce itself much more rapidly than any other 
form of life. So rapid is their reproduction that a single bac- 
terium may produce millions more in a few hours. The rapidly 
multiplying bacteria often form more or less colorless viscous 
masses or a thin scum float- 
ing on the liquid in which 
they are growing. Similar 
masses form the green scum 
sometimes seen on stagnant 
water, due to the growth of 
a microscopic plant, the 
Spirogyra. 

Bacteria require for 
their growth w^armth, 
moisture, and food. Many 
kinds of bacteria prefer 
protein food. Food for 
bacteria is not necessarily 
of a highly complicated 
nature. Many species will 
find the right conditions 

f r» r« nrkiificliTnonf a it A ^*^i"- ^^- — Various stages in the development 

1 U r llOUrihlimeni d n a ^^j brewers yooat, seen, with the exception of the 

irrnwth if ft Qmnll nrnnnnt ^^^^ *" ^^*^ »eiics, with an ordinary high power 
grow in II a SmaU amount (Zeiss, D. 4) of the microscope. The first is greatly 

nf T^rntpin nnri enm^ xxrofnT* niaKnified (Gundlach'a 1-16 immersion lens). The 

OI proiein ana some Waier second series of four reoresents stages in the divi- 

oi»£» r\r*c»Qan^ Qinn^ fi^xxr sion of a single cell; and the third series a branching 

are preheni. Oince ItW ^ojony. Everywhere the light-areas indicate 

bacteria thrive in acids or ^"^""'^^ 

in the presence of much sugar, their destruction is less difficult 
in fruits and tomatoes than in vegetables such as corn, peas, and 
beans, or in meats, which are the most difficult of all foods to 
can safely in the home. 

Bacteria in the growing state can be killed by subjecting them 
to moist heat at boiling temperature for variable lengths of time. 
Moist heat is far more effective than dry heat. Many kinds of 
bacteria have the power under adverse conditions of producing 
spores which are much more resistant than the vegetative or ac- 




22 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

tively reproducing form in which the bacteria ordinarily are 
found. Bacteria produce spores for the purpose of meeting un- 
favorable conditions, and in this resting stage the living matter 
may lie dormant for a long time, as it were, awaiting favorable 
conditions under which the vegetative rapid reproduction form 
can be resumed. These spores may be compared to the seeds of 
higher plants in their ability to withstand unfavorable condi- 
tions. While most of the bacteria which do not produce spores 
can be killed at a temperature of 140° to 180^ Fahrenheit, it 
is a well-known fact that some spores are able to resist heat at 
boiling temperature for sixteen hours or more. Many bacteria 
show great adaptability to temperature conditions. Drying or 
dehydration for a long period of time will kill many organisms, 
but, on the other hand, spores may withstand drying for years. 
Sterilization to kill spores as well as the ordinary bacteria forms 
may be accomplished by applying boiling te7nperature for a cer- 
tain length of time on each of three successive days. Certain 
resistant spores will germinate within twelve to twenty-four 
hours after the first treatment; but heating on the second day 
will kill thes(» ; and the third treatment is a safeguard which will 
destroy all remaining "germs*' in most cases. This intermittent 
or repeated sterilization with a constiint temperature of 212° 
Fahrenheit is perhaps a safer method and will assure success 
more often than a single period of sterilization at the same tem- 
perature for a longer length of time. 

Almost all the bacteria which are so resistant to heat when in 
the spore state are abundant in cultivated soil and therefore pres- 
ent in pods, husks, and different parts of such vegetables as 
com, peas, and beans, w^hich contain food upon which the spore- 
bearing forms thrive. The presence of these bacti^ria upon the 
parts of vegetables to be canned is therefore almost inevitable. 
The difficulty of sterilization is increasingly great when such 
vegetables have been bruised, allowed to stand, or have in them 
decayed portions. When fruit skin is broken, molds fall to work 
and open the way for bacteria to enter and start the decay. If 
the juices of these plants become infected with spores of these 
various species, the problem of sterilization is more difficult. 



% 



BACTERIOLOGY OF CANNING 23 

All bacteria in the spore state can also be destroyed by sub- 
jecting them to a temperature of 240° to 250° Fahrenheit, moist 
heat, but special apparatus, as the steam-pressure canner, is neces- 
sary to produce such temperatures. For this reason the method 
known as intermittent sterilization finds wide use among house- 
keepers and Canning Club members who do not possess steam- 
pressure canners. This method of fractional sterilization consists 
of applying boiling temperature to vegetables, already packed in 
glass or tin, for a certain period on each of three successive days, 
sealing the jar immediately after each boiling or "processing'* 
if the l!d has been loosened to take care of the expansion caused 
by the heat. Between each daily ])rocessing the containers are 
kept at ordinary temperatures, under which the spores not killed 
by boiling develop into the more easily killed vegetative or grow- 
ing state, which are then destroyed by the next ])eriod of boiling. 
If spores are present in the jars or caiLs, rarely do they fail to 
thus develop and be destroyed by the third processing (P^ig. 11). 
For peas and corn, properly selected and handled carefully, proc- 
essing for one hour in a water-bath at boiling on the first day, 
and repeated on the second and third days, will ordinarily steril- 
ize these foods in quart jars or No. 2 cans. The flavor of such 
vegetables thus processed is considered by many to be finer than 
when the vegetables are subjected to very high temperatures, as 
in the steam-pressure cookers. Treatment for one hour on three 
successive days is perhaps the safest method to follow with hot- 
water canners, when canning such vegetables as sweet potatoes, 
peas, corn, beans, etc. It is dangerous to use minimum penods of 
processing, because during some seasons there are occasional ^* out- 
breaks '* where fields are infected with an unusual type or a larger 
number of bacteria than ordinarily exist. Some fertilizers cause 
the fibers of plants to toughen, and it is more difficult for heat to 
penetrate them, therefore a longer sterilization period is required. 
Every precaution should be taken to counteract the influence of 
such danger by cleaidiness, careful handling, and rapid working 
from one stage to another during the entire process of canning. 

£nz3niies. — In addition to the action of '* germs'' or minute 
organisms, the spoiling of fruits and vegetables is hastened by 



u 



SUCCKSSFl'L CANXIXU AM) l*l{KSi:KVI\(i 



natural cltangOM, which result fnnu the action of enzymes or unor- 
ganized fermenting agents found in nature (the pepsin of the 
stomach is an illiist ration ) which, while not cellular organism like 
bacteria, do break down and dectniiposp foodstiiffs. These changes 




talte place with varyinfj rapidity in dilVi-rcnt foods and in.jnrc tlio 
(juality of the food. The d<'li<-ato tlavors of many fruils arc tlnia 
destroyed when they aie allowed to stand tiwi long, and become 
stale liefore being canned. This is an important reason why all 



BACTEKIOWGY OF CANNING 25 

fruits and vegetables should be canned aa quickly as possible after 
being gathered. The eanner need not pay great attention to 
enzymes, because they are killed as soon as heated. 

Classes of Bacteria. — A classification of bacteria in reference 
t« their need of oxygen is especially helpful to the eanner ; from 
this point of view, bacteria are of three classes : 

1. Aerobic— require free oxygen. 

2. Anaerobic— can live without free oxygen {Fig. 12). 




3. Facultative (.\erobic, anaerobic) — can live with or without 
free oxygen. 

Aerobic bacteria obtain the oxygen necessary for the process 
of multiplication from the air, and if the air is cut off they either 
remain dormant or die. Anaerobic bacteria obtain their supply of 
oxygen from oi^nic compoiuuls such as carbohydrates and pro- 
teins. This class sometimes causes more violent fermentation 
when forced to grow in the absence of free oxygen than when 
growing naturally; being deprived of free oxygen, the tearing 



26 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PltESERVING 

down of organic compounds is accomplished with frreat rapidity 
to supply the required oxygen, while the multiplication is les- 
sened. This fact accounts for the rapid spoilage of goods which 
have heen improperly sterilized. The anaerobic bacteria bring 
about decomposition with the evolution of a large amount of gas 
(Fig. 13). This gas may accumulate in quantities sufficient to 
bulge and even to break the container in which it is sealed (Fig, 















14). When products in tin bulge from the presence of gas inside 
they are known as "swells." Some bacteria have been described 
which bring about decomposition in vegetables and meat without 
evolutitm of gas. They give evidence of their presence by the 
development of peculiar odors and flavors. These arc known as 
"flat sours." 

A large percentage of losses in canned goods is due to the 
facultative anaerobes. The anaerobic, bacteria, however, cause 
spoilage in many cases where others are destroyed because the an- 
aerobic belong to the soil and are spore-bearing and have the 



BACTERIOLOGY OF CANNING 37 

power to withstand very high temperatures and afterwards de- 
velop. Jlost all of the anai'robes are known as bacilli; that is, 
they are rod-sliaped. 

Facultative al'robic or facnltative anaiirobic bacteria belong 
to a class which accommodate themselves to whatever condition in 
which tliey may be placed : 

Facultative aerolws are anaiTobic by natun-, but will grow 
in an aerobic state ; that is, in air. 

Facultative anaerobi'S are atirobic by nature, but will f;row in 
an anaerobic state; that is, where air is fxi-indeil. 




Nearly all bacteria fimnil in improperly sterilized sealed con- 
tainers are spore-bear in j; orfranisins. either anai'robie or facnlta- 
tive anaerobic. If there slionld hap|ien to lie a h'ak in the eau. 
any variety may enter and set up deeompnsilion. Non-sponi- 
lating varieties are always destroyed at boiling temperature (212° 
Fahrenheit) ; .so unless there is a leak or the sterilizing is incom- 
plete, this variety will not be present. 

A partial vacuum is an ideal environment for the growth of 
anaiirobic bacilli, since free oxygen interferes with the multipli- 
cation of these germs. On the other hand, they require oxygen 
for growth, but they must obtain it by breaking down substances 
that contain oxygen in chemical combinations. 

Partially cooked material oft'ers a more suitable medium for 
these germs, because the celhdose or fiber is softened and there is 



28 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



usually more surface exposed, and the juices are richer in carbo- 
hydrate or albuminous matter, as the case may be. The danger 
from these bacteria is not so great where absolute cleanliness is 
exercised and waste material is properly disposed of. Many bac- 
teria which are capable of setting up putrefactive processes will 
thrive luxuriantly on a great variety of cooked foods, when, as a 
rule, they will not grow readily on whole raw materials. 

Perfect Seal Important. — Putrefaction is sometimes found in 

imperfectly sealed and sterilized 
canned meats and vegetables. 
This may be due to insufficient 
sterilization or to leaky cans. In 
the process of putrefaction there 
are various ptomaines and toxic 
poisons formed which sometimes 
cause considerable trouble. 

Testing the Seal. — (a) In 
glass. After fruits and vegeta- 
bles are canned and set aside until 
entirely cold, the jars may be 
tested by removing the clamp and 
attempting to lift the lid from the 
jar. If the lid comes off, the jar 
was either not properly sealed or 
the contents are fermenting and 
may have to be discarded. If the lid remains tight, the chances are 
that the contents are keeping (Fig. 15). When faulty sealing 
alone exists jars may be reprocessed and tlie contents saved. 
However, protein foods are sometimes attacked by bacteria 
which thrive without the presence of air, and which decom- 
pose canned foods without producing any gas. When these 
have not been killed by processing, the food may appear good 
and the jar remain sealed when it is spoiled. These spoils 
in tin caused by bacteria which decompose food without form- 
ing gas are known as "flat sours"; with them the can is not 
bulged and shows no indication of spoiling. When such products 
are opened they are slimy and soft and they are acid to the taste. 




Fia. 15. — Testing the jar seal. 



BACTERIOLOGY OF CANNING 29 

(6) In tin. The time to detect the leak is when the can is first 
put into the sterilizer ; a shower of bubbles will be seen coming 
from the defective seal. If the can is removed immediately and 
retipped or capped, the contents may be saved in good condition. 
Occasionally the attempt is made to save defective cans, when 
they are detected after the processing, by reopening the tip hole, 
repairing the can, exhausting and reprocessing for the regular 
time. Products handled by this careless method are very likely 
to cause most serious stomach and intestinal complications. This 
practice is a very dangerous one. 

After cans are cooled, before stacking tliem, they are some- 
times tested by tapping the end of the can with a piece of metal. 
A clear, ringing sound indicates that tlie can is air-tight. If a 
dull sound is heard when the metal strikes the lid, the can should 
not be stored with the lot. A trained or experienced ear can very 
quickly detect from the sound when all is not well within. 

Substances Injurious to Bacterial Growth. — Many bacteria 
in growing give rise to substances such as acids which are more 
or less injurious to the cell life. The accumulation of acids and 
other substances produced by bacteria interferes with the bacterial 
growth and their power of multiplication. We have examples of 
this in the "fiat sours'' and also in the brining of vegetables. 
The acid present when frothing ceases above the brined cucum- 
bers (lactic acid) is strong enough to kill most of the bacteria 
in the brine. It is this lactic acid which cures and keeps the vege- 
table if the air is excluded from it at this stage, and the forming 
of sciun yeast at the surface of the brine is prevented. Many 
manufacturers do not know that their brine contains acid, yet the 
instant it does not contain it the pickle begins to deteriorate. A 
full explanation of this process is given in the chapter on ** Pick- 
ling," page 190. One of the principal factors in the manufacture 
and preservation of sauer-kraut is the development of lactic acid 
in quantities sufficient to act as a pre^^ervative. Bacteria, yeast, 
and molds are of value in preparation of foods such as vinegar, 
pickles, sauer-kraut, cheese, bread, and butter. 

Methods of Preserving Foods. — ,Iust at this point it may be 
helpful and interesting to consider methods of preserving food, 



30 SUCCESSFUL CANNING ANT) PRESERVING 

with a brief explanation of how each method accomplishes its pur- 
pose. To understand these fundamental reasons enables one to do 
canning and pn^serving more skilfully. The four methods com- 
monly used are preservation of food by drj'ing, by preservatives, 
by heat, and by cold. 

1. Preservation of Food hy Drying, — This method perhaps was 
one of the first known. In primitive times food was exposed to 
the direct rays of the sun for the purpose of drying it. This 
method is practiced at the present time, but more frequently the 
product is subjected to a higher temperature. In the process of 
drying a considerable portion of water is eliminated and many of 
the organisms present are destroyed. Tkicteria, yeast, and molds 
cannot develop when the moisture in any food is very much 
reduced below the original amount. The same is true when cer- 
tain disinfectants, such as smoke or the fumes of sulfur dioxide, 
are used in the cure. Meats and fish are frequently dried after 
a preliminary smoking or salting. Many food inat(*rials contain- 
ing an abundance of starch are sufficiently dried in the natural 
process of ripening and drying; for example, e(»rtain nuts, such 
as chestnuts and the grains, bleats, meal, or fiour containing the 
same amount of moisture as raisins or prunes would quickly spoil. 
Fruits are usually readily preserved by drying on account of 
their high sugar content. A dried or partially dried food should 
be sealed from the air to prevent gi'oss contamination and to pre- 
vent moisture being absorbed due to its hygroscopic nature. 

2. By Tlarmlcss Prcservaiives, — The most commonly used of 
these preservatives are salt, sugar, vinegar, and certain spices. 
In the presence of these, bacteria and yeast cannot grow success- 
fully. Products such as jellies, preserves, and pic.kl(\s are easily 
kept because of the presence of one or more of tlies(^ preservatives. 
While the sugar or spicc^s used may prevent fermentation, molds 
are likelv to occur on these foods unless sterilized and sealed to 
protect them from the air. This can be done with all of the prod- 
ucts, except jellies, by always processing and sealing after packing 
them into the containers. Jelly can be protected from mold 
by pouring over it a thin layer of melted parafBn when cold and 
covering it tightly. 



BACTERIOLOGY OF CANNING 31 

Sodium chloride (salt) is used for dry-salting fish and some- 
times other meats. The salt rapidly removes a pait of the water 
and thus forms a medium which is not suitable for the growth of 
bacteria. This is a pliysical action, because it is brought about by 
greatly increasing the osmotic pressure. Some presei'vatives act 
chemically by direct antiseptic action upon the microorganisms. 
Preservatives that inhibit the growth of organisms by their chem- 
ical action as antiseptics belong in two classes: (a) those which 
are produced in the food as a result of fermentation of the food 
material being packed ; (6) those which are added directly to the 
food. 

(a) Self -fermentation as Preservation. — Among the products 
in which preservation is achieved through tbe results of fermen- 
tation, in the process of curing, are pickles, olives, onions, sauer- 
kraut, cauliflower, and some pickled nn^ats and various other raw 
materials. Lactic acid formed by the action of lactic acid bacteria 
upon sugar may develop in sulTieient (juantities in certain foods to 
preserve them indefinitely against further change if properly 
handled. The preservation of ensilage is largely due to the lactic 
acid and other acids which are formed during the i)rocess of 
curing. 

(b) Preserving powders and other chemicals added to foods 
for their preservation are considered detrimental to health. Not 
only are foods containing them in quantity less wholesome, but 
their use encourages carelessness and the putting up of food which 
is unsound and unfit to eat. Benzoic acid and salicylic acid and 
their salts, and formaldehyde, boric acid, and borates are some- 
times used. These compounds were purposely added by some of 
the early canners to shorten their sterilization period. Fortun- 
ately this method has largely been superseded by the more reliable 
and less expensive sterilization by heat only. 

Some products, such as ketchups, sauces, and "fruit sundaes," 
preserved with such chemicals as salicylic acid, benzoate of 
sodium, and borax, are still on the market. In many cases this 
method is used because the buyer prefers this class of goods, even 
when he knows that preservatives have been used to keep them 
in an unfermented state. Hotel and soda fountain trade some- 



32 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

times prefers goods treated in this way because they will not spoil 
so soon after being opened. Sometimes tomato ketchup and fruits 
for sundaes will not keep for more than a week after the bottles 
or jars are opened. Frequently fermentation sets in about the 
fourth or fifth day, and mold will sometimes be visible to the eye 
in five or six days, if they have been sterilized by heat only. So 
long as the buyers ' trade will accept food which is bought in large 
containers and has been allowed to stand around open for days at 
fountains and in hotels we may expect these preservatives to be 
used. This method is cheaper and requires less care and skill than 
the putting up of individual packages for each patron 's service. 
It is undoubtedly true that in a majority of cases it is advisable 
to preserve food materials whenever possible without the addition 
of antiseptics. They are unnecessary, and, though the actual 
effect on the body of some is unknown, the burden of proof rests 
upon those who employ them. 

3. By Means of Heat. — Two methods of heat application may 
be used — pasteurization or sterilization. In pasteurization the 
food is raised to such a temperature that the organisms of certain 
types, but not necessarily all organisms, are destroyed. This 
process is ordinarily applied to milk and cream and to certain 
alcoholic beverages, such as beer and wine. In some cases this 
results in a prolongation of the time during which the food may 
be used. 

Sterilization by heat implies the use of a sufficient degree of 
heat to destroy all organisms present; and when the entrance of 
other organisms into the sterilized food is prevented it may be 
preserved indefinitely. In the preservation of foods by heat it is 
necessary that a temperature be selected such that will destroy all 
organisms capable of producing undesirable changes and yet 
cause no undesirable changes to take place in the food itself. 
The antiseptic action of the acid found in some fruits and vege- 
tables is so increased by the temperature of boiling water that it 
quite certainly sterilizes the product. Foods containing a large 
proportion of sugars are also easily sterilized by boiling. Vege- 
tables such as com and peas are much more difficult to preserve, 
inasmuch as they contain neither acid nor sugar in considerable 



BACTERIOLOGY OF CANNING 33 

quantities and* are ordinarily infected with certain of the anae- 
robic spore-bearing bacteria which are capable of withstanding 
high temperatures. 

The heat used in the preservation of food by sterilization pro- 
duces few changes other than those which would be accomplished 
by ordinary cooking. Heat will not injure the flavor very much 
unless it is prolonged. 

Since sterilization or preservation by means of heat is the best 
way to retain the natural flavors and wholesome qualities of fruits 
and vegetables, this book will deal chiefly with this means of keep- 
ing these foods. 

4. Preservation of Food in Cold Storage. — Practically all 
foods can be kept for a time by the use of low temperatures. Cold 
does not kill, but arrests the growth of organism. Some foods can 
be kept indefinitely by freezing. IVFeats may be held for some 
time at this temperature without deterioration ; in fact, for a time 
with marked improvement in tenderness and flavor. Some bac- 
teria may develop at temperatures below freezing-point of water, 
but not if they are in a medium which is solidly frozen. The 
length of time that food products may l)e kept in cold storage 
without danger to the health of the consumer is a disputed ques- 
tion, but it undoubtedly varies widely according to the nature of 
the food. 

QUESTIONS 

1. To what is tlie decomposition of foods due? Mention some changes 

which take place during the decomposition of foods. 

2. In what fundamental way do mohls, yeast, and l)acteria differ from 

the plants with which we are most familiar? 

3. What is the distinction between parasites and saprophytes? 

4. Describe briefly the characteristics of molds, including tlieir necessities 

for growth and their manner of growing and reproducing. 

5. Why do molds readily attack fruits ? 

6. How may mold be prevented from growing on the top of jelly? Explain 

your answer. 

7. What is yeast? Describe briefly the manner of its growtli and the 

necessities for it. ^ 

8. What are bacteria? State one way in which they differ deflnitely from 

molds and yeast. 

3 



34 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



^ 



9. Why is it more difficult to can beans and meat than it is to <^an fruits 
and tomatoes? 

10. What is meant by spore-boarinj^ bacteria? How do spores differ from 

bacteria in their tenacity of life? 

11. Why are spore-bearing bacteria almost invariably present upon fruits 

and vegetables? 

12. Wliy is it necessary to have sound fruits and vegetables for canning? 

13. What tale does a bruise on fruit or vegetable tell to one versed in the 

elementary facts of bacteriology? 

14. Why is intermittent processing at 212° Fahrenheit a surer method of 

sterilization than a single processing for a longer time in a water- 
bath? 

15. What advantage has the product of fractional sterilization over that 

produced by a steam retort? 
10. Why is it well to can fruit as soon as possible after it has been picked? 

17. How can you explain the rapid spoiling of food which has been imper- 

fectly sterilized? 

18. De8cril)e *' swells." What is the cause of them? Describe ** flat sours." 

What is their cause? 

19. Why is a large percentage of spoilage in canned goods due to anaerobic 

bacilli? By what care can we reduce the danger of that to a 
minimum? 

20. W'hy is a leaky can or imperfectly sterilized product extremely dan- 

gerous? What substances are formed in the process of putrefaction? 

21. Under what conditions are bacteria, veast, and molds of use in the 

preparation of food? 

22. Wliat four njethods are commonly used in the preservation of foods? 

23. Upon what j)rinciple is tlie preservation by drying based? Why are 

fruits more easily preserved by drying than are meats, fisli, etc.? 

24. Name the substances which may be classed as harmless preservatives. 

From the attacks of what forms of microiirganisms do these protect 
foods? Explain the preserving power of two of these harmless 
preservatives. 

25. Why should preserving powders be condemned even when their in- 

jurious effects cannot be proved? 
20. What responsibility has the public in the continuance of the use of 
such powders? 

27. What is the aim in the preservation of foods by heat? 

28. What is meant by pasteurization? By sterilization? 

29. Why are foods much more easily sterilized by boiling when there is 

present a certain amount of sugar and acid? 

30. Why is much care and skill necessary in the preserving of corn, peas, 

etc., by heat alone? 

31. Why can foods be kept for a certain length of time in cold storage? 



BACTERIOLOGY OF CANNING 35 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

1. BiTTixG, A. W., United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of 

Chemistry, "The Canning of Foods," Bulletin No. 151, 1912. Super- 
intendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, 
D. C. 10 cents. 

2. Bitting, A. W., United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of 

Chemistry, ** Methods Followed in the Commercial Canning of Foods," 
Bulletin No. 196, May, 1915. Superintendent of Documents, Govern- 
ment Printing Office, Washington, D. C. 10 cents. 

3. Buchanan, Esteli.k D., and Robert Earle, '* Household Bacteriology," 

1913. The Macmillan Company, New York City, N. Y. $2.25. 

4. CoN.v, H. W., ** Bacteria, Yeasts, and Molds in the Home,'* 1912. Ginn 

& Co., New York City, N. Y. $1. 

5. DucKWALL, Edwaim) WiLKY, " Cuiming and Preserving of Food Products 

with Bact<»rioKjgical 'leclinique,'* 1905. The Pittshurgh Printing 
Company, Pittsburgh, Pa. $5. 
(i. EuJOTT, S. Maria, '* llouseliold Bacteriology," 1910. American School 
of Home Economics, Cliicago, III. $1.50. 

7. JoRDAX, Edwin ()., *' Bacteriology," 1912. W. B. Saunders Company, 

Philadelphia, Pa. $3. 

8. I^iiMS, F., and Smith, N. U., United States Department of Agricul- 

ture, Journal of Agricultural Research, '* Life Cycles of the Bac- 
teria," vol. C, No. 18, 1910. Superintendent of Documents, Govern- 
ment Printing Office, Wasliington, D. C. 25 cents. 

9. McElroy, K. p., and BioeU)W, W. D., United States Department of 

Agriculture. Bureau of Chemistry, ** Canned Vegetables," Bulletin 
No. 13, part 8, 1893. 

10. Van Rexs.selaer, Martha, Cornell Reading Courses, '* Household Bac- 

teriologA'," January, 1913. New York State College of Agriculture, 
Cornell Universitv, Ithaca, N. Y. 

11. Wiley, Dr. Harvey W., "Foods and Their Adulteration," 1911. P. 

Blakiston's Son Company, Pliiladelphia, Pa. $4. 

12. " Bacteriology of the Household,'' in Lippincott's Home Manual Series 

(in preparation). J. B. Lippincott Company, Philadelphia. 



^ 



CHAPTER III 

PREPARATION AND EQUIPMENT 

The same general conditions hold for canning indoors or out 
of doors. Convenient equipment, carefully selected and ar- 
ranged, surroundings clean and free from dust, and a plentiful 
supply of water are among the essentials. 

INDOOR CANNING 

During certain seasons of the year weather conditions make 
it more comfortable to work indoors. Small (luantities of fruit 
or vegetables can be more conveniently handled in the kitchen 
than out of doors. 

Arrangement of Equipment. — ^Wheii canning in the kitchen, 
a part of the work, such as sorting, washing, cutting, and peel- 
ing, may be done on the porch. Jars may be sterilized and brine 
and syrup made in the kitchen while the fruit is being prepared 
on the porch. After cooking, which with vegetables may in- 
clude blanching and with fruits may involve plumping, the cool- 
ing and packing may be done on the porch, provided it is 
screened against bees, wasps, flies, and other insects which are 
attracted by the odors of the products being canned. The at- 
tractive odors of the fragrant fruits and spices are alluring to 
these insects (Fig. 16). 

Utensils Used in Preparation. — Only the equipment neces- 
sar>^ for convenient, accurate, and efficient work should be se- 
lect(»d. First, it is well to consider the utensils necessary for the 
washing, peeling, coring, and slicing in the preparation of the 
fruit and vegetables. For washing, it is best to use small brushes 
having strong bristles, bowls for the water, and pans for drain- 
ing. Some good types of knives for paring and peeling, selected 
with reference to comfortable handling and well-shaped cutting 
edge, are showTi in the illustration. Since coring and slicing of 
fruit are constantly being carried on in cooking operations the 
year around, it is worth while to provide these inexpensive uten- 
36 



PREPARATION AND EQUIPMENT 37 

sils, which will also add to the efficiency of these operations in 
fanning Qood types are shown in figure- 17. 




Successful results largely depend upon the accuracy with 
which directions are followed. With this idea in view, a small 
special equipment is suggested. For measuring liquids, the one- 



38 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



half pint glass cup and enamel or aluminum quart measure will 
be sufficient. Tin utensils are objectionable because fruits are 
discolored by them. In securing level measures of dry material 
the use of a spatula is suggested. It has many other valuable 
uses. A Bat cane paddle used in packing may be substituted for 
the spatula. Scales are invaluable when undertaking canning in 
large quantities. The clock must be constantly consulted to in- 
sure correct time for the various steps in the processes of canning 
and preserving. The saccharometer is suggested for the purpose 
of measuring the density of syrups used in canning fruits ; thei^ 




mometers aid in the jelly-making process, as well as in making 
jams and marmalades. A fuller description of their use is given 
in the chapter on " Preserving." A salt percentage scale is used 
to determine the density of brine for use in pickling (Fig, 17). 

Utensils Used in Cooking and Processing. — The ecguipment 
thus far described is useful in preparation of fruits and vege- 
tables for canning. Next to be considered are utensils for cook- 
ing and processing. In the blanching necessary for some fruits 
and vegetables a large vessel for boiling water is iiecessarj-. This 
must be large enough to immerse wire baskets containing the 
fruit to be blanched. The same pan or tray used later in the pre- 
serving serves here for transferring the dripping baskets or 



PEEPARATION AND EQUIPMENT 39 

blanching cloth to the cold bath which follows the blanch in many 
cases. The lai^ preser\'ing kettle illustrated is useful in many 
ways. It might be used for the blanching vessel, the preserving 
kettle, and even as the processor. It is economy to have it of the 
most durable material possible. Two ladles — one cup-Hke with 
pouring lip for liquids, and the other flat and perforated for 
skimming — will be helpful during the cooking as well as when 
filling the containers (Fig. 18). 




In processing, which is described later, it is necessary to have 
a tightly covered vessel large enough to sterilize a-<pnvenient 
number of jars at one time. A rack which will raise the con- 
tainers from the bottom of the steriliser must be used to allow 
boiling water to circulate beneath as well an around the con- 
tainers being sterilized. This rack is most convenient when it is 
supplied with handles so that all the jars on it may be lifted at 
one time (Pig. 19). Wire hot-jar lifters will prevent burning 
fingers (Fig. 20). 

Cooperative canning also is a method of minimizing labor 
(Figs. 21 and 22). 



40 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



OUTDOOR CANNING 

There are many advantages and pleasures in canning out of 
doors, especially when large quantities of farm products are to 
be taken care of in the shortest possible time. Outdoor canning 
gives opportunity for cooperative work among clubs> and neigh- 
bors. In cooperative canning the minimum amount of labor, if 
well organized, will give larger and better results. This work 
has stimulated many women and girls to spend more time in the 
open and bring other tasks out of doors. Choose a shady, green, 
cool spot convenient to the water supply for the canning. The 
fact has been mentioned before that insects are attracted by 
odors from the fruit being canned, and it might be well to 
consider baiting fly-traps near where the canning is done (Fig. 




Fia. 20. — Tongs for handling liot cans. 

23). Flies prefer nitrogenous food to sweets, and if the 
traps are properly baited with milk clabber or meat they will 
be less attracted to the products being canned (Figs. 23 and 24). 
In addition to the equipment already described above under * *In- 
door Canning/' tliere are important matters of special concern 
in outdoor canning. 

Arrangement of Tables. — Tables of the proper height should 
be conveniently arranged for different steps of the work. The 
diagram shown offers a suggestion for placing of tables with 
reference to the canner, especially when canning in tin (Fig. 25). 

Table 1 is equipped for the sorting, washing, blanching, peel- 
ing, and coring. It should be as few steps as possible from the 
canner, to save time and labor in the blanching process. 

Table 2 should be placed near Table 1, because the fruit is 
passed to this table for packing, weighing, and adding of brine 
or syrup. 

Table 3, which is for capping and tipping and should stand 
evel, should be near the canner, because of the numerous trips 



PREPARATION AND EQUIPMENT 




SUCCESSFUL CANNING AN1> PRESERVING 




PREPARATION AND EQUIPMENT 



43 



to be made between thera. Table 3 might be omitted if one is 
canning in glass only. Illustrations show other convenient ar- 
rangements of tables for uut-of-door canning (Pigs. 26 and 27). 
When tin cans are used it necessitates the use of tipping cop- 
per and capping steel. Sometimes the same tire wliich heats the 
water in the canner is used to heat these tools. A little oil stove 
wbJch bums a gas flame is certainly worth having for heating the 
toola. It gives a hotter and cleaner fire than the wood fire in 
the canner; it heats the steel more quickly and saves cleaning and 
retinning the tools so often 
(Figs. 28 and 29). 

A portable canner h a 
necessary convenience for out- 
of-door canning. Th s aj 
either be homemade or p r 
chased. There are a n ber 
of portable canncrs at reason 
able prices on the market at 
present. Considering il e fa t 
that most concerns f rn si 
tipping copper, cappi g steel 
and blanching trays v. th the 
outfit, it is cheaper to buy 
one complete than to attempt 
to build one and purchase a 
set of tools. The essential fi". z^t— a h<,m(.m»dcflj-tr«p. 

feature of such a canner is a good, large fire-box, above which 
is a compartment for heating water. In the water compart- 
ment are placed two or three wire baskets for handling a quantity 
of fruit at one time in blanching or a number of jars or cans in 
processing. A wooden rack placed below these baskets raises them 
above the fire-box and allows circulation of the water around jars 
and prevents breaking during th*^ processing. For this tank 
there must be a close-fitting cover (Fig. 30). 

A large tub of cold water for cooling tins should be placed 
be«de the canner. When canning in glasji out of doors, a cloth 
should be provided to place over the jars immediately after re- 




SL'CUKSSFL'L CAXSIKG AXU PKESERVIXG 



moving them from processing, to prevent the cold breeze from 
striking the glass and breaking it. 



SELECTING CONTAINERS 

Types of Containers. — The type of container is very impor- 
tant and should be considered when the first equipment for can- 




gitla building a fly-trap fa 



ning is secured. The most essential feature to consider is a 
perfect closure; then the sixe and shape desired for different 
products. 

Tin Cans. — When canning is to be done in tin and the buying 
is to be direct from the manufacturer, it is very necessary to order 



PREPARATION AND EQUIPMENT 



45 



the cans as early as possible to take advantage of the lower prices 
offered before July 1, Many firms close their factories after 
this date, and will not consider any order in less than carload 
lots. The same thing is true in some of the glass factories. If 
you anticipate canning in lai^ quantities, make an estimate for 
your dealer or onler early from the manufacturer. Tin cans 
are designated by number rather than by the measure of liquid 
they carry, as is the ease in glass containers (Fig. 31). Flat 




No, 1 cans arc the smallest that are advisable for use in home 
canning, and their use is very limited. The Xo. 1 flat or s>|uat 
can is more attractive than the tall No. 1 for the most of the prod- 
ucts packed in so small a tin, and is especially desirable for such 
packs as sweet Spanish pimientos, figs, tomato paste, etc. The 
No, 2 tin can is the size most generally used for canned vege- 
tables and small fniits. Corn and peas are more easily sterilized 
in this sized tin, and for that reason these products ^ould not 
be packed in any larger container. No. 3 can is used more often 
in some localities than No. 2, especially for canning peaches, 
tomatoes, pears, etc, (Fig. 32). 



4G SUCCESSFUL CAXNING AND PRESERVING 




PREPARATION AND EQUIPMENT 



3iilL;>>-— M 


^Ci ■-■ ' i^~ 


Pk ik 


'JflpVMlt^MGE^ir^ 


I tCl 


IgU 



I. 37. — CkDOiDl tomttoCB From (he achaliinhip plot, Stale Norms] Srhuol. Ilari 




Flo. 28.— A ketoitnE itoi 



4B 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



The enamel-lined can is necessary when canning berries, plums, 
cherries, beets, pumpkin, and hominy, which may not be packed 
in the ordinary; tin cans, because they are affected by the tin in 
such a way as to rapidly lose their color and flavor. Pigs also 
will keep a brighter color when packed in these enamel-lined 

cans. "When enamel-lined cans 
cannot be secured, these prod- 
ucts should be packed in glass. 
A No. JO can is sometimes 
used for tomatoes and spinach/ 
but in such a large container 
a great deal longer time is re- 
quired to sterilize food; there- 
fore it is better suited for hotel 
and institution canning. It is 
not generally advisable to pack 
in No. 10 cans unless process- 
ing is done under steam pres- 
sure. Sometimes fruits are 
packed in these containers in 
a thin syrup during the very 
busy season, then opened, 
cooked more, and repacked in 
marketable containers during 
the less busy season, as the 
orders come in. This is not 
practicable, however, unless a 

for heL?inf toTu. T'^lnne7^por^lt'- ^ery large quantity of ripening 
coal bucket may ahiole used. f^uit must bc takcu carc of in a 

very short while, and time cannot be allowed for plumping and 
careful packing. Often semi-tropical fruits are handled in this 
manner in the orchards and shipped to the large packing-houses, 
where they are repa^cked in smaller commercial containers be- 
fore marketing. 

The square tin cans are sometimes used for asparagus tips. 
In California such a container is more generally used for this 
product than the round can. 




PREPARATION AND EQUIPMENT 49 

The cans described above are those which can be secured with 
solder hemmed caps. 

"Sanilary" Cans. — The so-called "sanitary" cans are widely 




used by commercial packers. They require a machine tor seal- 
ing, A small hand machine for sealing .special sanitary cans 
is illustrated here {Fig. 33). The cans with the proper closure 



50 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVINO 



to use in this machine are a little more expensive, perhaps, than 
the regular cans in stock, but the time and material saved by 
this process more than cover the extra charge. This method 



O. 



y? 



to 



6 Vis 



Capadty 
II6.I0Z. 



Capacity 36. 4* oz. 



3Vis' 



Capacity 
ZZ.Z oz. 



t 



3'/* 



Capacity' 






5? 






LT 



A3 



Fio. 32. — Sise of cana used for household purposes. 



eliminates the use of solder and canning flux in the sealing of 
cans. If machinery cannot be employed hand tools will be 
necessary (Pig. 34). It is necessary to designate the size when 



% 



PREPARATION AND EQUIPMENT 61 

ordering cans, since the diameter of the opening should cor- 
respond with that of the capping steel to be used. There are 
two sized openinffS, 2'/,„-iiich and 2'/,, -inch. Cans with the 




1. 33. — Huod nucbiui 



2V,,-in<;h opening are more generally used. The solder hemmed 
caps are preferable, because they save solder and time in put- 
ting them on. Plain tin caps are not worth considering. 



52 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



Olass containers are more varied in sizes and shapes than the 
tin and lend more opportunity for displaying a variety of at- 
tractively packed products, both for the home pantry and for 
market. Throughout this book suggestions are made from time 
to time about salable products in commercial packages. This 
is for the purpose of encouraging the canning, preserving, and 






FiQ. 34. — Cappinc steel and tipping copper. 

selling of surplus products. The highest quality of commercial 
products on the market should tend to stimulate ideals and 
standards (Pig. 35). These jars can be obtained in one-half 
pint, pint, quart, and one-half gallon sizes. 

Selection of Jars. — Jars should be selected with reference to 
suitable size and shape for the product to be packed, keeping in 
mind economy in the initial purchase and durability. Other 



PREPARATION AND EQUIPMENT 63 

important considerations are beauty of proportion, tint and 
quality of fe'Iass. Not only are these qualities considered by 
those who are packing for high-class sales, but also by the house- 
wife who enjoys artistic expression through arrangement and 
preservation of beautiful form and color in skilful packing. The 
square jar is effective for showing quality and pack. 

Lightning Seal. — The wido-mouth glass-top jar with wire clamp 
which is attached to the neck of the jar is a satisfactory one. A 
jar with this closure is known as one with a "lightning seal." 
This seal is made by different manufacturers and put on the 
market under various trade names, A jar with this closure is 



an easy one to handle while the jar is still hot. Immediately 
after processing and sterilizing it is necessary only to push down 
the lower clamp around the neck of the jar. This gives the 
amount of pressure necessarj- to assist in the scaling of the jar 
as it cools. The rubl>er used is placed in the groove of the neck 
of the jar, and the cap fits down on the top of the rubber, 
which prevents the bottom of the glass top from comintr in direct 
contact with the top of the jar. It is the rubber that makes 
possible this seal by adhering to both the top and the jar. Every- 
thing mast be very hot to obtain a good seal, and for this reason 
directions are often given for cooking the fruit in the jar. 
This heating drives out some of the air, forming a partial 
vacuum in the jar. At this point the clamp is pushed down, 
preventing entrance of air as the jar eools. The jar is then 



54 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



sealed by the pressure of air on the outside. Sometimes a jar of 
this type is spoken of as a ''self-sealing'' jar. This sort of seal- 
ing has great advantage over the old screw-top jars. 

Screw-top jars which demand handling while hot are difficult 
to screw on tightly enough to insure good sealing. If the tops 




ABC 

Fia. 36. — Commercial jars for special products: A. 10-ounce vase-shaped jar, hermetic top. 
B. 12-ounoe glass-top, screw-nm jar, rubber used. C. lO-ounce jar with hermetic cap. 

are screwed down by hand, the wrists become tired and cramped 
before many are sealed, and it is uncertain whether all are suflS- 
ciently tight. There is a simple tool on the market for screw- 
ing on tops. 

The zinc top should not be used, because fruits and vegetables 
which contain acids are unfit to eat after contact with the 
zinc cap. New tops should be secured for all jars of this 
type. The glass used in this type jar is usually tinted. While 
the fruit will be easily kept in this glass, it gives the fruit an 



PREPARATION AND EQUIPMENT 



65 



unnatural appearance, and it is not so attractive. When pack- 
ing fresh fruit and vegetables for sale, the fair natural color en- 
hances the value of the finished product. 

Safety-valve Seal, — The jar with the safety-valve seal is 
beautiful. It is made of clear flint glass, and the seal is the 
same principle as the lightning seal. While being processed the 
lid is held in place by a wid'3 black clamp which may be re- 






A B c 

Fia. 37. — Appropriate rontainere for exhibit purposes: A. Quart square jar. B. Cham- 
pagne shaped ketchup bottle. C. Pint square jar. 

moved when the jar is cold and sealed. It then presents a very 
attractive appearance. Jars of this type are more expensive 
than the other types mentioned. They are often used by select 
preserving kitchens that furnish goods for high-class, fancy trade 
(Figs. 36, 37 and 38). 

The ''Hermetic^' Jar, — The hermetical sealing jar with the 
gold lacquered cap and wire clamp is used more often for com- 



5G 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



mercial purposes, though there are some household jars of this 
type on the market. The cap is said to be washed in a gold 
lacquer that will not be affected by vegetable or fruit acids 
coming in contact with it. Around the inside edge of the cap 
a gasket or rim of sealing composition fills the space between the 
cap and jar, and this softens when heated and adheres to the 
jar. The sealing of this jar is practically the same as the light- 
ning seal jar. Heating forces out the air and forms a partial 
vacuum in the jar; then the wire clamp, which should be 





A B 

Fio. 38. — Individual containers: A. 4-ounre vaflc-shaped jar, hermetic cap. B. Straight- 
sided 4-ounce jar, hermetic cap. 

placed on the jar at the beginning of the process, furnishes 
sufficient pressure to prevent cold air from rushing into the jar 
as it cools. It is the pressure of the outside air, nearly sixteen 
pounds to the square inch, which keeps the jar sealed. Com- 
mercial products are often packed in jars with this type seal. 
Because the sealing compasition is under the edge of the cap and 
not exposed, it is not so liable to become punctured by mice 
and roaches nibbling it, as is sometimes the case where rubbers 
are used. 

Rubber rings dry and deteriorate with age. They become 
porous and sometimes crack, Wihen this happens, the air gets 



PREPARATION AND EQUIPMENT 



57 



in and, because the partial vacuum is broken, the seal is no 
longer good and the product will spoil. A perfect seal, where 
the rubber ring is exposed, will hold only so long as the life of 
the rubber lasts. In selecting rubber rings it is wise to secure 
the best and always use new ones. The price of a dozen rings 
is less than the value of the contents of one jar, so it is economy 
to have new rubbers each year. The thick, red and gray rubber 
rings are among the best. The black one is better than the 






FiQ. 39. — Box of rubbers and a jar. 

white, because the chemicals used to bleach this kind cause 
it to dry, crumble, and crack in less time than the better-grade 
rubber (Pig. 39). 

C^rKSTIONS 

1. Describe the care necessarj to protei't tlu* fcxxl from insects wliile work- 

ing on the porch or under the trees. 

2. When considering a piece of equi])nicnt, what would determine its 

selection ? 
.3. What principles are involved in the arrangement of tables in Fig. 10? 

4. State, in the order of their importance, the features to be considered in 

the selection of containers. 

5. Why are plain tin containers unsatisfactory for some fruits and vege- 

tables? What kind of containers would vou use for these foods? 
W^hen is glass preferable to any other ? 

6. Describe the principle of the so-called "lightning seal.'' 

7. When a rubl)er ring is used in the seal, which kind would you select and 

why should it be renewed every year? 



— _ . I ^ t_k. 



58 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 

1. BirriNQ, A. W. and K. G., " Canning and How to Use Canned Foods/' 

1916. The National Canners' Association, Washington, D. C. 30 
cents. 

2. Bbeazeale, J. F., United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers* 

Bulletin S59, "Canning Vegetables in the Home," 1910. Secretary 
of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 

3. Breazeale, J. F., United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers* 

Bulletin 521, '* Canning Tomatoes at Home and in Club Work," 1913. 
Secretary of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 

4. Gould, H. P., and Fletcher, W. F., United States Department of Agri- 

culture, Farmers' Bulletin 426, '* Canning Peaches on the Farm," 
1010. Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, 
Washington, D. C. 5 cents. 

5. McDonald, May C, and Stanley, Louise, University of Missouri, ** The 

Preservation of Food in the Home," vol. 15, No. 7, Extension Series 6, 
March, 1014. University of Missouri, Columbia, Mo. 

6. Rose, Flora, Cornell Reading Courses, ** The Preservation of Food 

in the Home,** 1012. parts 1, 2, and 3. New York State College of 
Agriculture, Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y. 

7. Shaw, S. B., North Carolina Department of Agriculture, "The Home 

Canning of Fruits and Vegetables.** North Carolina Department of 
Agriculture, Raleigh, N. C. 

8. United States Department of Agriculture, States Relations Service, 

Office of Extension Work in the South: A-81, "Canning, Preserving, 
and Pickling**; 782, '* Peppers**; 775, "Use of VegeUbles from Win- 
ter Garden.'* Office of Extension Work in the South, States Relations 
Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 



CHAPTER IV 

CANNING IN TIN 

Since canning in tin is becoming much more widely used in 
the household, it may well be presented first. On the farm, for 
instance, where there is a large yield of fruit or vegetables to 
be canned, the canning process in tin can be handled with more 
speed, less danger of breakage, and at a very much smaller 
initial cost. For all these reasons, in many localities the canning 
in tin is preferred. 

Preparation for Canning in Tin. — Special equipment for 
canning in tin should be assembled early in the season, as prices 
are better then and there may be difficulty later in securing 
certain supplies, as already suggested. The cans should be 
ordered early and the processing vessel, whether it be a com- 
mercial canner or one made at home, should be installed some 
time before the actual canning is to begin. When the canner is 
decided upon and the solder hemmed caps and cans ordered, 
the next to consider is the tipping copper, capping steel, and a 
file. To clean these tools, a canning flux should be made and 
some powdered sal ammoniac placed in a can to rub the tools 
with after heating. 

Making Flux, — Put some commercial hydrochloric (muri- 
atic) acid in a glass or crockery vessel (not metal), add strips 
of sheet zinc until no more can be dissolved. To this add an 
equal quantity of water. Label this ''Flux*' and use carefully. 
Very little must be used, and care must be had not to allow any 
of it to enter the can, as it will injure the contents. The use of 
flux is described under ''Capping.*' When canning, have one 
vessel (a can will do) with enough flux in it to clean the tools. 
Keep separately, in a glass bottle, the quantity to be used in 
sealing cans. 

Cleaning and Tinning the Steel and Copper. — It is of first 
importance to have capping steel and tipping copper in good 

59 



GO SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

condition. In case they are iTisty, they may have to be filed. 
Otherwise, rubbing them with coarse sand-paper or on a brick 
will smooth them. Care must be taken to keep the edge of the 
capping steel true if the file is used. Both the tipping copper 
and capping steel must be kept tinned or coated with solder to 
make the solder flow evenly when sealing the cans. Place a 
handful of sal ammoniac mixed wuth a few pieces of solder (one- 
half cupful of sal ammoniac and three inches w^re solder) into 
an old can. This proportion will be sufficient for retinning 
the tools one time. The sal ammoniac can be used again if 
more solder is added. Heat the already smooth tipping copper 
and capping steel until almost red hot, dip into the flux, then 
into the sal ammoniac and solder, turning them about and 
rubbing them until bright and well coated with solder; then 
dip into the flux again. The best sealing can be done with the 
least effort if the tools are kept in a clean, bright condition. 

Plenty of clean white cloths should be at hand during the can- 
ning process. There should be wire lifters for handling hot cans 
and blanching trays. Sufficient wood should be piled near the 
canner for keeping up the flre. A tub of cold w-ater for cooling 
the tins as soon as they are removed from the processor should 
be at one side of the eanner, and there should be a water supply 
near at hand, becausi* it will be necessary to change the water 
from time to time in order to liave a cool supply. The equipment 
should be placed, if possible, where it can be used for the entire 
season. 

Having outlined a convenient arrangement of this equip- 
ment, the various steps in the process of canning in tin may next 
be considennl. 

STEPS TAKEN IN CANNING IN TIN 

1. Selection of good sound fruit and vegetables is of para- 
mount importance. Unless the product to be canned is of the 
highest grade and in prime condition, it is useless to hope that 
special care and skilful packing wnll result in anything more 
than disappointment and failure. In securing fine quality, much 
depends upon having the vegetable or fruit absolutely fresh, 



CAKNIXG IN TIN 



61 



cri^, and clean, and kept cool. All steps, from beginning to 
end, of any lot of canning should be carried tlirough as rapidly 
as possible. A good slogan is, " One hour from the field to the 

2. Sorting and grading should be done very carefully, ac- 
cording to the size and degree of maturity and ripeness. Use 
only uniformly well-ripened products (Figs. 40 and 41), Dis- 
card all defective ones, and use tosctlicr those of the same size. 
In canning, the flavor is retained only when young, tender, 




quickly grown vegetables are used. Commercial concerns some- 
times have what they call grading paddles. They consist of a 
flat board with holes, which correspond to the opening in the 
glass jar in size. Peaches, for instance, whicli are too small 
are set aside to be packed aa sliced peaches or for sweet pickles, 
and the ones which are too large are kept toffether, while all 
that slip through easily are made up together in one batch. 
This grading before cooking simplifles sorting when packing, 
BEves much time, and gives a more iniiform product throughout. 
3. Scalding, Peeling, and Coring. — Some fruits, such as 
peaches and tomatoes, are scalded in order to peel them smoothly. 



62 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



Put fruit or vegetables to be scalded into trays or squares of 
cheesecloth and lower into boiling water for one minute (Fig. 
42). Remove at once to prevent cooking. Plunge into cold 
water, which prevents softening of the fruit and causes it to 
shrink, making the skin more easily peeled from the flesh. When 
the skin does not come oflf clean without tearing bits of flesh, 
it is an indication that the scalding has not been successful. 
This may be due to having the fruit too green, to oyercooking, 
or to adding a large quantity of fruit at one time, which too 




Fia. 41. — Uniform tomatooa together. 



quickly cooled the water. A slender-pointed knife is useful for 
peeling and coring. 

4. Blanching consists of plunging the vegetable or fruit into 
a large amount of boiling water for a short time. A wire 
basket or square of cheesecloth serves for handling large quan- 
tities of fruit at one time. The blanch gives a more thorough 
cleaning, because the scalding water tends to remove the bacteria 
from the surface of the fruit or vegetable. It also improves the 
flavor and removes strong odor and flavor from certain kinds of 
vegetables. The fruit shrinks in the blanch and becomes more 
flexible. A full pack is then more easily made. The time re- 



CANNING IN TIN 



63 



quired for blanching varies with the state of maturity of the 
different fruits and vegetables. Blanching peaches and pears 
gives them a more transparent appearance, better texture, and 
mellow flavor. Using it for cherries will prevent splitting and 
cracking. Spraying fruit with cold water after blanching will 
make it Sner. Sometimes it is well to drop the vegetable into a 




cold salt-bath for an instant after the blanching to make it 
more crisp. In the case of green beans, peas, and okra, such a 
cold salt dip may help to keep the green color. 

5. Sterilizing containers is very essential before packing 
them. This may be done while the fr\iit is being sorted. Wash 
the cans and drop into boiling water for ten to fifteen minutes. 
On removing them from the water, turn open ends down on a 



64 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

clean towel to keep out dust and air. If stacking them, turn 
open ends of two cans together. 

6. Packing. — The can should be filled as full as possible with- 
out crushing pieces. There sliould be no space which would 
allow the pieces to move about and bruise and break one another. 
In general, when packing in tin for the market, it is well to do 
sufficient weighing to insure minimum weights from falling below 
the standard chosen. Federal and most state laws require that 
cans be filled as full of food as is practicable for processing, 
and that they contain only enough liquor to fill the space and 
cover the contents. Plan in advance and work rapidly. Do not 
allow filled cans to stand before adding liquid and exhausting, 
because to do so will injure the product. Add seasoning and 
mark the cans with pencil or knife to show contents. 

7. Adding Water, Brine, or Syrup. — ^Add the liquid to 
within one-fourth of an inch of the top. Shake the can and tap 
gently on the table to dispel air within the can. Now clean 
and wipe the groove around the opening and slip on the solder 
hemmed cap (Fig. 48). 

8. Capping. — ^Use a small brush, cortl, or little mop, made by 
tying a clean white cloth around the end of a small stick for 
applying the flux around the groove, being very careful to 
allow none of it to enter the can. The flux is used to make the 
solder adhere to the tin. Apply the clean, hot capping steel, 
holding the cap firmly in place with the center rod while lower- 
ing the steel. Turn the steel steadily until the solder flows: 
a half turn forward, a half turn back, with a sudden twist 
forward again to swing the melted solder around the groove 
evenly while lifting the steel. Hold the center rod firmly until 
the solder cools, making a perfect seal. 

9. Exhausting. — Place the cans in trays and lower into boil- 
ing water to within one inch of the top to drive the air out of 
the cans. Let them stay the shortest time possible to drive out 
the air. Dense foods like corn and sweet potatoes require a 
longer time for exhausting than products which are more juicy. 
The denser foods are poorer conductors of heat, and it takes a 
longer time for the contents in the center of the can to become 



CANNiNG IN TIN 



heated. Ordioarily three niintiles is long enouRh for exhatiatiiig 
cans not larffcr than No. 3. Exhausliiit/ u necessary. If omitted, 
the air left in the can expands, causing it to bulge. The can 
may not rpsiime normal shape, or, if it dot-s ami is exposed to 




a warmer temperature, it may aduin fX])aiiii, t;iviii;: thi' appear- 
ance of a "swell." Future orders may li.' cut (iff Iteeause of a 
single can like this. The pn'.si'nee of air in the cjiii may eanse 
the tin to dissolve mon- rapidly and enter into the fotid. 

10. Tipping. — Immediately after exhaustinir. dose th.' small 



as SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

hole at the top of the can. Dry the cap, apply flux as for 
capping, and use a little wire Bolder (Pig, 44). Hold the hot 
tipping copper in tiie right hand, placing tihe point over the hole, 
and barely touch the solder to it. Bring the hot copper ver- 
tically over the hole and lift it so that only a bead will drop 
and make a neat, round tip. 

11. Processing is heating to sterilize the contents of the cans, 
which have heen packed, exhaust«d, and tipped. In a hot-water 
canner, the water should he boiling vigorously when tAie cans 
go in. Lower the can slowly luider the water and watch for a 
shower of bubbles. If the bubbles are seen, this shows that there 




is a leak at the point from which the bubbles come, and the can 
must be taken out and resolden?d. Account should be taken of 
the time beginning when the water first boils after emerging 
from the cans. Keep it boiling continually. When processing 
in a steam-pressure canner, begin counting time when the gauge 
denotes the amount of pressure you wish to use in processing. 
In intermittent processing, the vegetable is processed for forty- 
five to sixty minutes at boiling temperature on each of three 
successive days. The time is sometimes reduced to two days 
with very young, fresh string beans and other more easily 
sterilized vegetables. 



CANNING IN TIN 




m 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PKESERVING 



12. Cooling.— Cool all products in tia as quickly as possible 
after processing to atop the cooking. Overcooking breaks down 
the texture of fruit and injures the flavor and color. Plunge 
cans into very cold water immediately, especially when process- 
ing intermittently. Never stack cans together until entirely 
cold. The cans should be dried before storing to prevent rust- 
ing. This may be done by either drying them witlh a cloth or 
standing them in the sun after the plunge in cold water. 

13. Test for Defects. — Tap the top of the can with a metal, 
and if the containers are sealed a clear, ringing sound is noticed. 
If the seal is imperfect a dull sound will be heard. It is a 
common sight in factories to see a workman beating a rapid 




tattoo on the ends of cans with a inetal. He can detect by the 
variation in sound or a single blow when ail is not right (Pigs. 45 
and 46). 

14. Labelling. — Cans should never be labelled until perfectly 
cold (Fig. 47). It is better to wait five or ten days so as to be 
sure that they are all sound. If products are to be sold, titey 
should be freshly labelled juat before shipping and have the 
net weight stated in pounds and ounces, with packer's name 
and address on each can. Place the sealed end down so the 
smooth end will appear at the top when standing on the shelf. 
The paste used should be placed only on the label at the end, 
so that no paste will touch tlie tin. It may cause rust if the 
paste touches (he can. 



CANNING IN TIN 69 



Paste 



1 cupful of flour 1 cupful of cold water 

1 teaspoonful of powdered alum ^ teaspoonful of oil of cloves 

3 cupfuls of boiling water 

Mix the flour and one cup of cold water thoroughly. Add 
the boiling water and bring slowly to the boilinj?-point, beating 
all the while to prevent lumps. Boil for five minutes. When 
cooked, add the alum and oil of cloves, pour into glasses with 
covers. This will keep for some time and make an excellent 
paste for use in labelling cans and jars. 

Frequently the outside of the cans is lacquered before label- 
ling to prevent rusting. In damp climates, where cans rust 
easily, this is advisable. An attractive label will add a great deal 
to the appearance of the finished product, and it should be 
chosen carefully with this idea in view. 

Any one washing to can for the market should look up the 
state law^s and requirements about the matter. It is not so neces- 
sary to be familiar with the Federal laws unless interstate ship- 
ments are to be made. Detailed information on state laws and 
regulations may be obtained by writing to the State Food Com- 
missioner, State Board of Agriculture, and Federal rules and 
laws can be secured from the Bureau of Chemistry, U. S. Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. Write for the publica- 
tions and state what products are being packed for sale. 

This information is given for the benefit of those who are 
canning for conmiercial purposes; every one who cans for the 
market should be encouraged to know the food laws. Such things 
sound more serious than they are, and one should not be over- 
whelmed with the seemingly endless details attached to the can- 
ning business. New facts pertaining to food conservation are 
being published constantly, and those who are interested in the 
various phases of the subject should keep informed by securing 
from their State Board of Agriculture, the II. S. Department of 
Agriculture, and tihe National Canners' Association, from time 
to time, all publications and reports. 



70 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



QUESTIONS 

1. What is the meaning of efficiency in canning? 

2. Describe the equipment needed and its arrangement when preparing to 

can in tin. 

3. How is "flux" made? For what is it used? 

4. What is your standard for the external appearance of a tin of fruit or 

vegetable? What steps are necessary to secure this standard? 
6. Describe how to coat with solder the tipping copper and the capping 

steel. 
6. When such a tin has been opened, wliat standard should the contents 

equal? What steps are necessary to secure this standard? 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 
See end of Chapter VI, page 86. 



CHAPTER V 

CANNING IN GLASS 

Canning in glass is very similar to canning in tin. The 
same principles hold good throughout. The initial cost of con- 
tainers is greater than when canning in tin, but for home use 
it is more economical, because glass is used year after year, 
while tin should be used only a single time. 

The first four steps under *' Canning in Tin" are also to be 
followed when packing in glass (see p. 60) ; the additional steps 
are given below. Convenient arrangement of all equipment is 
ver>^ essential before undeilaking the work. 

5. Sterilizing. — Jars should be washed and placed, side down, 
in a vessel and covered with cold water. The water should be 
slowly brought to a l>oil and allowed to boil for fifteen minutes 
(Fig. 48). 

6. Packing. — After selecting and sorting the fruit or vege- 
table for uniformity in ripeness and size, and after blanching it, 
the fruit should be arranged in the jar with reference to sym- 
metry and the best use of the space within the container. In 
placing the fruit or vegetables into a jar, a thin, flexible paddle 
or spatula, made out of cane or soft white wood, is useful. It is 
important to have a good, clear syrup. Clear, soft, or distilled 
water should be used. Sometimes better results could be ob- 
tained if the (quantity of water used for making the syrup could 
be first boiled, strained, and cooled before using. Mix the sugar 
and water by stirring as it heats, to be certain the syrup is 
uniform (Pigs. 49, 50, and 52) . 

7. Paddling. — A more slender paddle is used for taking 
bubbles of air out after the liquid has been added. This is done 
by running the paddle down the side of the jar and touching 
the bubble with the rounded end of the paddle. The air creeps 
up the paddle to escape and is displaced by the liquid. More 
liquid should be added after paddling in order to have the jar 

71 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



full to overtlowiiig. These paddles can easily be made at home 
(Fig. 51). Bamboo cane is suitable material for making them; 




40. — Pmckinf uniform pUjett ot rhubirb. 



an old fishinR in)lc will do. Split the caue, cut the paddle nine 
to twelve iiK-hcs lontr, leavinR a joint at the top for a handle. 



CANNING IN GLASS 




Fill. 00— We"-P»=''^'' i" °' 



74 



SUCCESSFtn- CANNING AND PRESEBVINQ 



Whittle the other end until flat, thin, and flexible. Then sand- 
paper. If green bamboo cane is used, place in the sun to dry 
aft«r making the paddle. 

8. Adjusting the Rubber and Cap. — Be sure the rubber is 
carefully flattened in its groove and no particle of fruit or seed 
is present on it before placing on the cap. When a glaas-top 
jar with wire clamp is used, place the lid on evenly and raise 
both clamps up, the upper one fastened to hold the lid in place. 
When a screw-top jar is used, screw the 
cap evenly about half way. With a her- 
metic jar no rubber ring is necessary; 
simply fasten the cap in place on the 
jar with the clamp. The hermetic jar is 
self-sealing as it cools, and does not need 
to have any adjusting of the cap or clamp 
after processing, as is the case with each 
of the other above-named jars; simply 
leave the clamp in place until the jar is 
entirely cold. 

9. Processing,— Place the jars on a 
wooden, galvanized, or wire rack to hold 
them off the bottom of the processor, 
which is directly over the lire. Sometimes 
a cloth is put in the bottom of the vessel 
before placing jars, but this is not a good 
Fio. 51.— Pmddiw: a. pmckiwi practice, sincB the Weight of the jara 
presses the cloth against the bottom 
of the processor an<l often causes it to stick and bum. A rack 
which holds the jars up an inch or two off the bottom is better. 
In a hot-water canner the water around the jara should be of 
the same temperature as the contents of the jar to prevent them 
from cracking, and the water should come within two inches of 
the tops of the jars. Have a tight cover for the vessel to keep 
in the steam. Do not count time until the water begins to boil. 
Keep it boiling steadily for the time required. Seal the jars 
air-light promptly at the end of the processing, and remove 
them from the bath, being extremely careful not to allow a cold 




CANNING IN GLASS 




76 SrcC^ESSFUL CANKIXG AND PRESERVIN(J 

draught to strike tlii^ni. In intermittent processing raise the 
clamp of tlie jar at the beginning of each processing to allow for 
expansion. Seal at the close of each processing. The hermetic 
jar is not a suitable one for intermittent processing. Processing 
in glass in a steam-pressure canner is described in a later chapter, 
*Trocessing at High Temperatures" (see p. 87). 

10. Labelling. — Each jar should be washed and polished 
before labelling. Here again the choice of the label should 
be made carefully. One just large enough to have printed 
the necessary requirements is suflficient. Choose a neat label: 
white is preferable, with plain, simple black printing. A fancy 
colored label may not be in harmony with the color of the 
contents of the jar and will detract from the attractiveness of 
the product. Place the label on the plain side of the jar, mid- 
way between the seams and one-quarter inch from the lower 
edge. When labelling products to be sold, the name of the 
contents, name and address of the packer, and net weight in 
pounds and ounces must be stated. 

Storing Canned Products. — Store the canned products in 
a cool, dry, dark place. Light will cause the color of the 
products in glass to fade, while products in tin are, of course, 
not affected by light. 

(^I'KSTIONS 

1. Give in outline form and in order tlie steps necessary when canning in 

glass. 

2. What steps in this process (iitrer from the steps in cannin;; in tin? To 

what are the differences due? 

3. Which container is more economical for home use? Wliy is this true? 

4. State definitely the principles which are the hasis for all kinds of can- 

ning. 

B1BLI0(5RAPHY 
See end of Chapter VI, pa^es 83 and 86. 



CHAPTER VI 

PROCESSING— HOT-WATER BATH 

Processing is the term applied to the operation of sterilizing 
or heating to destroy bacteria so that the canned goods will keep. 

All fruits and juicy vegetables are better in color and 
texture if sterilized at or near the boiling-point (212° Fahren- 
heit). For this purpose the hot-water. bath is commonly used. 
Sometimes these oufits can easily be made at home, according to 
the amount of canning which is to be done. 

Homemade Canners. — If only a few jars or cans are to be 
processed at a time, then dat-bottom vessels, such as a wash- 
boiler, ham boiler, preserving kettle, or bucket deep enough to 
permit of being covered after the jars or cans are placed on the 
false bottom inside, will serve the purpose (Fig. 53). When 
any of these utensils are used it is necessary to have a false 
bottom on which to set the jars or cans whih^ processing. Narrow 
strips of wood or wire netting made of medium-sized galvanized 
iron may be uschI for this rack. The vessel should be equipped 
with a tight cover, preferably tin, which is kept in place while 
the sterilizing is being done (Fi^-. 54). Such small outfits are 
intended for use on an ordinai*>' cook stove or range. 

A homemade canner for use out of dooi^s, where larger quan- 
tities can be handled, may be made out of tubs or fifty-pound 
lard cans. Heat for these canners is furnished by portable 
stoves, or by furnaces made of brick or stone (Figs. 55 and 56). 

Conmiercial Outfits. — The purchase of an expensive or 
especially made outfit in which to do the cooking is not necessary. 
There are, however, a number of inexpensive commercial out- 
fits which give very satisfactory results. Some of these canners 
are well built and excellent work can be done, both for com- 
mercial purposes and for home use. These outfits range in size 
from those having a four-can capacity to those having a capacity 
of a few hundred cans. The price varies according to size of 
the canner and the number of tools and accessories included in 
the outfit. 

77 



SUCCESSFUL CANNINQ AND PRE8BRVINQ 




fla. M.— A wMb-boiler with filie botUuD mtkM ■ eanvtowDt . 



PROCESSING— HOT-WATER BATH 



79 



Manafactarers furnish catalogues having full descriptions 
and price-lists of these various outfits, and in order to secure & 
canner best suited to conditions a study of different catalogues 
will help to make the decision. The requisites of a good com- 
mercial hot-water outfit may be enumerated thus: First, good 
quality of material used and of workmanship in the construc- 
tion; next, the convenience and cost of operation, in order that 




the best results can b« obtained with the least possible 'ex- 
penditure of time, labor, and fnel. ■'' 

Equipment Accompanying the Purchased Canner,— ^T he 
usual portable canner for out-of-door ubl' consists of the following : 



Return flue 
Water tank 
Trays or win 
Chimney 
Tight coyer 



Tipping copper 
Capping ateel 
Can tongs 
Tray liftera 
Fluxing brush 
Charcoal bucket o: 
Fire-pot for hi 



MaMriaia 

Bundle of wire solder 
Powijered sal ammoniac 
Bottle III llux 
Coarse sand-paper or 
file 



Soi.ir r.vuu',-. ^„-r I'nmi.l ;,n.| -,H,<- iv.t ^,,11:1, l;ir ill ^lLall^. Tiu' 
linvi-r swrlion (.i- fiiT-hn.\ lias a sriiail opt-nitif; in tin- door through 
which the soldering tools may be placed for lieating. The water 
in the upper section will heat more quickly if a smoke pas8a(?e 
JK placed in such a way that the 
water chamber is heated from 
tlie Rninke passage as well as 
from the fire-box. Sometimes the 
chimney is attached at the front 
of the eanner near the fire-box 
door; this necessitates the smoke 
returning from the outlet at 
the other end of the fire-box back 
to the chimney, and, if the 
water ehnuiber extends down be- 
tween the smoke passage and 
the fire-l)ox, the extra heat ob- 
tained in this way will cause the 
water to boil more quickly, thus 
savinp time and fuel. The bas- 
kets or trays for holding the cans 
in the eanner arc made of gal- 
vanize<l metal, with a wire bot- 
tom and wire handles. This bas- 
ket serves as a false bottom and 
(its into the water tank, resting 
slightly above the top of the fire- 
Ihix and smoke passages. A 
'^°' *brirk ait^i«i"8ntft"h'^' """ woodcu rack should be placed be- 
low this basket wheii canning 
in glass so that the l>oltoin of ihe metal tray will not rest directly 
on the fire-hox. A basket full of eans may be lifted out with 
wire tongs. The top of the i-anner ia fitted with a tight cover, 
which keeps in the heat (Fig. 57). 

Canners should have water in the iip])er section before a fire 
is built; if this is neglected with the type of eanner which is 




I'ROCKSSIKU— UOI*-«'ATKR BATH 







(Phillipg & But to [S, NnniiviUe. Tcd 



82 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PBESERVING 

soldered together, the solder will melt and the water will leak out, 
making the caimer useless until it is mended. 

The chimney should be tall enough to provide a good draught 
and tn carry the smolte away. The smoke from a pipe which is 




Fio. 69— A toldimiwo-buiMr gMdiiiB atovB. (W.J.Bakcr Co.. Newport. Ky.) 

too short is most objectionable to those who are canning (Fig. 
57). 

For Heating the Tools. — The tools may be heated in the 
fire-box of the canner, but the suggested fire-pot, charcoal bucket, 
or gas-flame stove is better for this purpose, since the tools heat 
more quickly and do not have to be cleaned so often (Fig. 58). An 



PROCESSING— HOT-WATER BATH 83 

ordinary bucket with a hole cut out of one side near the bottom 
will make a good substitute for a fire-pot if charcoal or corn- 
cobs are burned in it. Care must be taken to have the fuel 
burned to a bed of glowing coals before attempting to heat the 
tools. This is necessary to keep the copper and steel smooth 
and clean (Figs. 58, 59 and 60). 

A Time-table for Use in Canning Fruits and Vegetables 
When the Hot-water Process is Used. — To obtain satisfactory 
results with these outfits, consideration should be given to the 
length of the sterilization period, which is indicated in the table 
below, in the column headed ** Process/' Since the temperature 
cannot be controlled below the boiling-point, it is necessary to 
start counting the time when the water begins to boil and keep 
the boiling constant throughout the process. Complete steriliza- 
tion can be obtained by following this table if the essentials as 
outlined in other chapters are fulfilled. 

Intermittent Processing. — The vegetable is processed for 
forty-five to sixty minutes at boiling temperature on each of 
three successive days. 

QUESTIONS 

1. Describe an outfit for processing by the hot- water bath wliich may be 

made at home. Explain the principle which makes necessary each 
detail described above. 

2. If purchasing a commercial hot-water outfit, what points should be 

considered ? 

3. How will the position of the chimney on a commercial canner influence 

the time needed to heat the water? 

4. Describe a homemade fire-pot. What fuel may be used in it? In what 

condition should the fuel be before placing the tools in it? Why is 
this care necessary? 

5. Why do starchy vegetables require a longer processing than those 

conta.ining a large percentage of water? 

6. Why is it necessary to keep the temperature constant during, the 

processing? 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESEEVING 



S 6 . ( I j 

lIlllU li i I sis iii 



is 
II 



w|e5 



llliiEJf 






I I III ... 



15:: Ml 

I iiil iiiliiiil 
■g .|6;ii.l.s«».!.i.5i 

ifl g s g a E I = 5 s a g 



! I 



S| 3 
111 



■mi 


a 


la 








SI? 




il 


f?f 




:S' 


^■ss 




•a 


ass* 

IISS 




5s 



i la 



■thiisl 1 1| i;l 

■ ■ ' ft -^^a 

11 SSI 
SS sis 



< 5 SJtoOOO a. a.^£.K3.St-i'±> 






PROCESSIXG— HOT-WATER BATH 



85 



3 



si 
£1 






90 





Q 






W 33 

X ^ 






cSdcleaeScSeStfeS^eScSeSoS 
33333333 3.2 S 3 3 3 



ocooo»o»oo»cp»oo»cpN 



C^Cs|Cie<OICIC<C*C0C0CIC0P3Oi 



o 



a 
2 



CCNNMMMNNdeOCMCOWC^ 



6666666666 6 6 6 6 



J3 
u 



0) 

«-» 
3 
C 



•3 

u 



c c 

o o 



1 = 

^ O 

OD CO 

8S5 






98 

73 



m 3} 

C C 

o o 

o u 

^ a; 

en o 






- OS 

ca es.a 



. c 

on xj- 

C-- 
o fi 

OD 00 b 



c 
o 



aiilsai|ll|iil 



II 

®.a 

■»:> M 
3 3 

i| 

a o 

eJ O 

sa 

i V 

«^ 

e: o 



I ^ 



o ♦J 
-^ It 

cn_« 

•c e 



1) 

s: 
o 

K 

c 
o 



c3 

3 
an 






3 

s 

u 



a 
o 

s-s 

U >> 



e8"0 

CQo 
«^ 

W u aj 

OS'S 
"§5.2 






OS 



a 

3 



4> 2 CJ -^ 

^ d jj u 



■*r ♦* <-> 08 h, 

d gs el ^ O « 



09 



C 3 " 



M _ u 3 — 

5 c d c-^^ o 
. o o c:z >^^ 

o2 o 2 *^ o « 



O 

ei ^ it 

d « c o 



n 0) 

CI 

d 
3 
o 



i?a 

nO'iS 
d C e8 
3 0) &^ 

a M o 



r* 2 3 W5 ^" ^, 



op w « JO g^«s 

fi B d d d «D 0*5 



9i 



d c =* « 

2 Si ?> S'd'OTJ'^ 
u S ^ fi d d d 

= CC 3 3 3 3 3.a u „ 



£ 



2 o 



9i 



«ia>.33333 - 3 .. 

■• 3 * 

Ji • « • » • » 






d-5^ 

oJ= 3 

3 ** o 

J x'ja « >.'5 

i**ooooo u^-- 

1^*3S2e22se§ 

U Z oDOOC/ySOCOCO OB o,-»^ 

f* ".§ ©3-9 

^ a 

a a 



s 

o 
•xs 

ji 
"3 

S 

OQ 
« 



Of 

I 



mS^ o 



.S5i S 



s 

Of 



2 S 



^^if!.si^- ^- 



86 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

1. Bitting, A. W. and K. G., *' Canning and How to Use Canned Foods," 

191G. Published by the National Canners' Association, Washing- 
ton, D. C. 30 cents. 

2. Bitting, A. VV., Bulletin 9, " Processing and Process Devices." Na- 

tional Canners' Association, Washington, D. C. 

3. Commercial catalogues from manufacturers of canners, glass and tin 

containers, and other equipment. 

4. Creswell, Maby E., and Powell, Ola, U. S. Department of Agriculture, 

Farmers* Bulletin No. 853, " Home Canning of Fruits and Vegetables," 
States Relations Service, Office of Extension Work South. U. S. De- 
partment of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 

5. Creswell, Mary E., Georgia State College of Agriculture, " Home Can- 

ning of Fruit and Vegetables," 1915. Published by the State Col- 
lege of Agriculture, Athens, Ga. 
G. '* Creole Cook Book," 1914. Published by the Picayune, New Orleans, La. 

$1.25. 
7. Farmer, Fannie Merritt, " Boston Cooking School Cook Book," 1907. 

Little, Brown & Co., Boston, Mass. $1.80. 
8* McKiMMON, Jane S., North Carolina Agricultural Extension Service, 

" Canning and Preserving with 4-H Brand Recipes," June, 1916. State 

Department of Agriculture, Raleigh, N. C. 
9. Spring, Helen M., ** Individual Recipes in Use at Drexel Institute," 

1909. John C. Winston Company, Philadelphia, Pa. 25 cents. 

10. United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry: In- 

formation concerning state laws governing packages and labelling of 
canned products can be obtained from State Boards of Agriculture. 
Similar information concerning interstate shipment of canned 
products can be obtained from the U. S. Department of Agriculture, 
Washington, D. C. 

11. United States Department of Agriculture, States Relations Service, 

Office of Extension Work in the South: A-81, "Canning. Preserving, 
and Pickling": 782, "Peppers": 775, "Use of Vegetables from 
Winter Carden." Can be secured from the Office of Extension Work 
in the South, States Relations Service, Department of Agriculture, 
Wasliington, D. C. 

12. Vanderbilt, Sadie B., Columbia University, " Phvsical and Chemi- 

cal Tests for the Housewife," 1913. Technical Education Bulletin 
No. 19. Teachers' College, Columbia University, New York City, 
N. Y. 10 cents. 



CHAPTER VII 

PROCESSING AT HIGH TEMPERATURE 

Steam Retorts. — Iron boxes or steel cylinders, known as 
retorts, are used in processing by steam at a temperature above 
the boiling-point (i. e., higher than 212° Fahrenheit) . The retorts 
may be vertical or horizontal, the size being determined by the 
number of cans to be handled daily. 

In the vertical retorts steam may be used alone or it may be 
introduced into water; in the horizontal retorts steam alone is 
used. Vertical retorts are used where canning under high tem- 
perature is desired in the home, and in small canning plants. The 
steam pressure may vary from five to fifteen pounds, thus giving 
a temperature of 220° Fahrenheit (105° Centigrade) to 255° 
Fahrenheit (124° Centigrade). The proper control of time and 
temperature is very important. This is regulated by recording 
thermometers and temperature controllers attached to the retort. 

Small Outfits for Home Canning. — An expensive equipment 
is not necessary when canning in small quantities at home. A 
variety of small steam canners for home canning are on the mar- 
ket (Fig. 61). The prices vary according to the size and quality 
of material used in making them. The construction of these out- 
fits resembles that of the regulation steam boiler. They are made 
of a high-grade metal, and the seams are so riveted, soldered, and 
joined as to make them water-tight and steam-proof. A band of 
packing is placed around the groove in the outer rim of the cover, 
which keeps the inside chamber steam-tight when the cover is 
clamped on. This part of the canner wears out after a time and 
should be replaced if the canner is to continue to give the best 
results. 

A brass pet cock which allows for the free circulation of steam 
and escape of dead air is screwed into the cover. This should be 
left slightly open while processing. 

87 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

Piu. 02. 




d Ir.jn Work*. Eiiti Clairr. Wiia 




no. 03.— ADOtIi«rt;rp«kfiawfiM theini«r4»l sL .., 

water ud it emn be tuaed quicklj to ttia boilini Pont witb tbe u 
tiigbl pnoun san be Msutwd. 



FROCESSINO AT HIGH TEMPERATURE §9 

There is a dial gauge, the needle of which moves upward when 
the temperature of the interior of the caimer rises above boiling 
(212° Fahrenheit). The figures on the face of the dial indicate 
the number of pounds of steam preasure and also its equivalent 




degree of heat. A safety valve is also attached. The " weiglit and 
arm" style valve automatically rcgiilatos the pressure inside the 
retort from one to fifteen pounds. Tlie weight on tlie arm may be 
set at any point on the lever, as it is made to slide back and forth. 



90. 



SUCCESSFUL CAIINING AND PRB8ERV1NQ 



When a certain time for the process is desired the steam gange 
should he watched until it shows the required amount of pres- 
sure. Set the weight so that enough steam will escape from the 
valve to retain that temperature. After the processing the steam 
should be let off by raising the bar on the valve or by opening the 
pet cock before removing the cover of the canner (Fig. 64). 

A wire basket or galvanized crate comes with the outfit. This 
is a great convenieoee, for it can be used in blanching, exhausting, 
and sterilizing. While sterilizing is in progress this basket or 
crate re.sts on a false bottom, which is sometimes made of galvan- 
ized iron. This permits of free circula- 
tion of steam underneath and around 
the cans. The capacity of a small retort 
is about 150 to 250 cans daily, and it will 
generate and hold about fifteen-pound 
pressure of steam. An outfit to be used 
in canning under steam pressure should 
be built of strong material and have sufB- 
cient attachments to determine and regu- 
late the temperature. The results of 
processing under steam cannot be as- 
sured without a thermometer; a gauge 
for reading steam-pressure is a substi- 
tute, since, as indicated in the table 
below, a definite pressure gives a definite degree of heat ( Fig. 65) . 
A steam retort may be converted into a hot-water eanner by 
filling the canner with water and keeping it at a. temperature of 
212° Fahrenheit. Some outfits require that the steam be piped 
into the retort from a boiler tank. This is more often true with the 
larger and more expensive outfits (Fig. 66). Separate retorts 
which can be used over a stove or out of doors are made, and often 
gasoline burners are sold with them as a necessary accessory. 
Charcoal furnaces and a gas-fiame oil stove will give good results, 
and they are less expensive and more easily handled. Other 
canners have a fire-box built in ; when used out of doors the fire is 
protected and steam can he obtained more quickly. 




PROCESSING AT HIGH TEMPERATURE 








Se.™- 


Eihsiut 


T«n.r*r- 


Prf|«u« 


5r. 




o. 


No. 3 




pUUDtl> 


^■i 


Asparagus 

Beans 

Beets 

Hruawb sprouts 


Same 

for 
hot- 
water 
can- 
ning 


Same 

for 
hot- 
water 
can- 

ninn 


&ime 

for 
hoU 

water 


Sume 

for 
hot^ 

water 


246" 
240 

228 
22K 
2.'i0 
24U 
248 
248 
240 
250 
240 


10 
10 
5 
5 
15 
10 
15 
10 
10 
16 
10 
5 
10 

,1 

5 


■10'" 
45 

30 


Hominy 


56 
50 


Peaa 




Potato, Bweet .. 

Pumpkin 

Kraut 


70 
65 








Squaah 

Succotaah 

Vegetable Boup. 


ning 


234 

2^8 
22s 


65 
40 

35 



Much time, labor, and fuel can be saved by sterilizing some of 
the heavy starchy products under steam pressure (see table above 
and Fig. 66). 



92 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



QUESTIONS 

1. What is meant by the term " processing at a hi^h temperature "? 

2. For what kind of foods is this method particularly advantageous? Ex- 

plain your answer. 

3. What two points must be watched constantly wliile processing at a high 

temperature? Explain your answer. 

4. How would you examine a steam canner to determine its value? 

5. What part of the best canner will deteriorate with use? 

0. What is the purpose of the " pet cock " ? Where is it located ? How 
should this cock be while processing? Explain your answer. 

7. Describe how to secure the pressure desired while using a steam canner. 

8. When a definite time is desired for the processing, from what point in 

this process will you count the time? 

9. What precaution should be taken before opening the canner? \V\\y is 

this necessary? 
10. For what other method of canning may a steam canner be used? How 
can this be done? 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 
See Chapter VIII, page 122. 



CHAPTER VIII 

FRUIT JUICES 

Value. — The many ways of using fruit juices make them a 
most valuable product to have on hand throughout the year. 

MediciiiaL — Fruit juices were used almost exclusively for 
medical purposes until recently. It is still a common practice in 
Europe for physicians to send their patients to the vineyards to 
drink the fresh juices as they come from the press. 

Daily Menu. — The juices of such fruits as grapes, currants, 
cherries, blackberries, raspberries, plums, and apples make whole- 
some and delicious beverages, as well as being a pleasant addition 
to the daily menu. Nothing is more refreshing on a hot day than 
a cool fruit-juice drink, which may be easily prepared from bot- 
tled juices. 

The dessert may be varied with veiy little expenditure of 
strength, time, and money by the use of different fruit juices. 
These may be used in making sherb(»ts, iee-en^am, puddings, 
sauces, and gelatine desserts. 

Social Functwns. — The combination of fi-uit juices makes an 
attractive fruit punch to be served at any social function. 

(iENKRAL PREPAKATIOX 

Much depends on the methods used in picking, assorting, and 
cleaning the fruit used in making fruit juices, syrups, and 
vinegar. 

Picking. — It is important to select only ripe fruit ; green fruit 
gives too much acidity to the Hiiishecl j)roduct, while over-ripe or 
spoiled fruit imparts a disagreeable taste. Shallow trays or 
baskets are better adapted for picking, because they prevent 
crushing and bruising of the fruit. 

Assorting. — Even after careful picking it is well to sort over 
the fruit on the trays, selecting only the sound fruit and discard- 
ing the green and rotted fruit. 

93 



94 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



Washing. — The fruit should be washed carefully to free it 
from adhering dust and dirt, which are always found in more or 
less amounts on freshly picked fruits. This is best accomplished 
by placing the fruit in a wire basket or colander and allowing a 
spray of water to run over the fruit. Often the fruit is bruised 
with the hands when washing it in a deep pail of water, so this 
method should not be used. It is important to use utensils which 
will not be affected by fruit acids, and to preserve in glass storage 
containers, in all fruit-juice work. 

E.\TR.\CTING JUICES 

The amount of work involved is relatively far less when the 
juice is extracted in large quantities than in small amounts, be- 
cause of the many labor-saving devices that are applicable if one 
is handling material in quantities. 




Fla. eT.—HouHhold Iiuit-)uice pitm. 

Cold Process. — This process consists of enishing and then 
pressing the fruit to facilitate the overflow of juice. An ordinarj- 
cider mill may be used for handling the fruit in quantities, but if 
only a small quantity is to be taken care of, the fruit may be 
crushed with a potato masher, food chopper, or fruit-juice press 
(Fig. 67). After crushing, the fruit is then pressed in a cloth by 
twisting the two ends in opposite directions fFig. 68) until the 
greater part of the juice is extracted. 

A homemade press may be constnicted as follows : 



FRUIT JUICES 



96 



Figure 69 shows a very efficient lever press which any farmer 
who is handy with tools can make for himself from material which 
can be found on almost any farm at any time. The press consists 
of the following parts: Two upright posts (F) are set deeply and 
firmly in the ground, ahout twelve inches apart. It is well to 
attach cross-pieces (ordinarily known as "anchors" or "dead 
men"} to the ends in the ground to prevent the posts from pulling 
out too easily. The lever (E) may be hung either between these 
posts by means of a bolt (T) or to the side of a building, or a 
hole large enough to admit the lever may be notched in a tree and 




-Qotb prrM tcLne iwuled. 



a lever fastened by a bolt. At the other end are two posts, between 
which the lever can be raised by means of block and tackle. The 
press itself consists of two timbers (Z>) on which rests the press 
bottom (B). On this bottom is set a press basket {-!), consisting 
of two sides and two ends held together by means of rods (L), 
and so constructed that it can be easily taken apart and put 
t<¥ether again. The sides and ends are bored full of small holes, 
from three-eighths to one-half inch in diameter, through which 
the juice is pressed. When the press is filled with fruit, the top, 
which fits inside the basket, and the cross blocks (/) are put on 



96 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PB£6ERVING 



and the lever caused to preaa down on them. A large tub (C) 
is placed under tlie press to eatch the juice. The rope running 
through pulley block {(1) fastened to cross-piece (ff) is used to 
lift up the lever of the press ; while pressure or weights on the 
end of the lever (£) work the press. 

For ordinary purposes a prfss basket thrcf feet square and 
two feet high, holding u ton of crushed grapes, will be found to 




be a verj' convenient size. It is perhaps well to state that the 
longer and heavier the lever, the greater the pressure exerted on 
the fruit. When it is not couvenient fo make the lever very long, 
weights are placed or hung on the outer extremity in order to 
increase the pressure. With a little ingenuity any farmer can 
adapt this press to suit his individual requirements. (Figs. 70 
and 71.) 

Sometimes in pressing grapes for beverages only the "free- 
run juice" is desired. This is the juice which is found between 
the skin and the pulp. Only .suffieient pressure to burst the skin 
is necessary to secure this "free-run juice." This gives a product 
which is more brilliant, clear, fragrant, and delicately flavored 
than the "total juice." 



FRUIT JUICES 97 

Hot Process.— Juices of small fruits may be prepared with 
or without previous heating, but heating before pressing increases 
tie yield of juice, intensifies the color, and develops a more dis- 




tinctive flavor than can be obtained by simply cold pressing. 
There are, however, a few exceptions. -luices flow more readily 
from fruit when heated ihan when cold. When the fruit juice ia 
to be used for jelly-making flic hot pri'tising is necessarj', because 
heat is essential to develop the pectin, the jelly-making sub- 
stance found in fruit juices. 



98 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



If the berries or small fruits are to be heated before pressing, 
about one-half the quantity should be crushed with a wooden 
potato masher in the vessel in which it is to be cooked before heat- 
ing. Place the utensil containing the fruit over a second vessel 
containing hot water, so that the fruit may be steamed instead 
of atewed until tender. A better color and davor will be retained 
if the fruit is not allowed to come in direct contact with the fire. 
The less juicy fruits require addition of water and a longer hea^ 
ing to extract the juice. 




Usual factory methods render the pomace, or cheese (the re- 
maining pulp), almost dry enough to burn. From an economical 
standpoint, squeezing the pulp is considered a good practice, ex- 
cept where the free-run juice alone is desired. When the juice 
is extracted it may be filtered by allowing it to drip through a 
flannel or felt cloth. Both the "free-run juice" and "total 
juice" should be carefully strained before bottling. After the 
juice has dripped through this filter, allow it to stand while the 
bottles are being sterilized, so that the suspended substances 



FRUIT JUICES 99 

present will drop to the bottom and render the juice less turbid. 
Now the clear juice may be poured off without disturbing the 
Bediment. The juice which has been strained should be pro- 
tected from the dust. This can easily be done if a strainer such as 
shown in figure 72 is used. 

PACKING 
Reheating the Juice. — Some concentrated juices are paclied 
cold, but thin juices will not keep unless heated to a temperature 
of 170° to IflO" Fahrenheit. The temperature should never be 
allowed to go above 200° Fahrenheit. Fruit juices should never 
boil, because boiling injures the color and flavor. If a ther- 
mometer is not available to regulate the tfmperatiire, heat the 
juiee in a double boiler and allow it to steam or simmer for five 
minutes. 




Bottling. — The preparation of fruit juices for bottling in the 
proper season requires little time and skill {Pig. 73). The juice 
should be poured immediately into hot sterilized bottles, allowing 
about one inch at the top for the expansion when the juiee in 
the bottles is heated. If the juiee is strained eold into the bottles, 
more space at the top should be allowed for expansion than when 
jniee is packed hot. When juices are bottled for beverages, the 
addition of a small amount of sugar will produce a finer flavor. 



. 1 - : t »ii_ 



JL... ■-J ll J-.il JJ 



100 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

The proportion varies, but a fair allowance is one cupful of 
sugar to one gallon of juice. No sugar should be added to the 
juice when it is bottled if it is to be used for jelly-making later. 
This method of allowing the bottled juice to stand undisturbed 
insures the getting rid of tartaric acid crystals in grape jelly 
which are so objectionable. On standing, the tartaric acid crys- 
tallizes and the crystals settle. When the juice is to be used for 
jelly-making it should be poured off carefully, so as not to dis- 
turb the sediment which contains these crystals. 

Corking. — Soak new corks for one-half hour in warm soda 
water (one teaspoonful of soda to one quart of water), and then 
dip them into boiling water immediately before using. The corks 
should be placed loosely in the bottle before pasteurizing. Some- 
times a small circle of cloth is tied over the cork during pas- 
teurization to keep it from blowing out. This is better than 
using a patented device. Neither of these will be necessary if 
sufficient space is allowed at the top of the bottle when filling with 
juice and the water-bath is kept at the proper temperature. 

Pasteurizing. — The term ** pasteurizing" is used here in 
place of sterilizintr because of the low temperature used in heating 
fruit juices. 

An ordinary wash-boiler makes a simple homemade pas- 
teurizer if fitted with a false bottom. This false bottom prevents 
the bottles from coming in direct contact w^ith the bottom of 
the vessel. A free circulation of water around all sides of the 
bottles will keep them from breaking. The vessel should be 
filled with water to within one inch of the top of the bottles. 
Heat the water slowly and allow it to simmer for twenty to 
thirty minutes, the lenjjth of time to depend upon the size of 
the containers us(»d and the kind of juice being pasteurized. 
Testing the temperature of juice in the bottles with a thermometer 
gives greater accuracy. If this tevst is used, allow the corks to 
float on the water in the boiler until the pasteurization point is 
reached. Heat the juice to 140° to 150° Fahrenheit and hold 
this temperature for thirty or forty minutes, cork the bottles, 
and cool to temperature of 70° to 75° Fahrenheit before remov- 
ing the containers fi-om the water-bath. 



PKUIT JUICES 



101 



Sealing. — Immediately after the pasteurizing the sterilized 
corks should be driven tightly into thi; bottles to seal them 
securely. Place the neck of the bottle on the edge of the table 
and with a sharp knife cut the corks off even with the tops of 
the bottles and seal air-ti(iht with niclted iiaraffin or wax {Fig. 
74). After cutting the cork, turn the bottle npside down and 
dip one inch of the neck into the melted wax, turning the bottle 
as it is lifted out to give a smooth coating to the sealing wax. 




Homemade Sealing Wax. — .Melt toj^cther equal parts of 
shoemaker's wax and resin. This should be done in a pan over 
hot water to prevent seorchinfi and to make it a pretty amber 
color. Dip the corked Iwttles into it after it has melted. 
Various colors may be obtained by adding the following in given 
proportions to the melted wax. To each three pounds of resin 
used add : 



For red color, y^ ou 
For black color, 3 oi 
For green color, 5 oi 
For yellow color. 5 o 



For ft white aealinf; wax, inelb toRethei 
wbite vamiab, 1 pound beeawai, and % oun 



; Chinese vermilion, 

'es lampblaclc. 

;cs chrome green . 

noes clirome yellow, 1 ounce ahellac. 



102 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESKRVING 



Capping. — If a screw cap is to be placed on the bottie over 
the cork, the sealing wax should be omitted (Fig. 75). 'When a 
crown cap is used the bottles of fruit juice are usually pasteurized 
open and the cap crimped on by a hand machine immediately 
after the pasteurizing (Pig. 76), 





Labelling. — The appearance of the package depends a great 
deal on the label. Before labelling;, wash and polish each bottle. 
Place the label midway between the seams of the bottle and one- 
fourth inch from the lower edge. On each label should appear 
name of product, net weight stated in pounds and ounces, and 
the name and address of packer. Fresh clean labels should be 
placed on commercial bottles just before they are packed for 
delivery. 



FRUIT JUICES 103 

Storing. — All bottled fruit juices should be stored in a cool, 
dark, dry place. If left in a bright light llhe color will fade and 
the juice will be less attractive. Unfermented juices properly 
made and bottled will keep indefinitely if not exposed to the air 
or to infection from mold germs. When a bottle is once opened 
the contents, like canned goods, should be used as soon as possible. 
The bottles or jars should be small enough so that the contents 
may be used at once, and not allowed to stand until they spoil. 

SPECIAL PRODUCTS 

Cider. — Cider making requires a comparatively inexpensive 
equipment and involves only a small amount of labor. Cider 
is not considered a profitable commercial product, because it is 
bulky and perishable. By following the methods given for 
bottling other fruit juices, fresh cider may be easily kept through 
the year. Usually cider is sterilized at too high a temperature, 
which destroys the delicate flavor of the fresh juice and renders 
it unappetizing. The length of time cider may be kept open 
before it ferments sufficiently to be considered as becoming 
**hard^' or sour varies with temperature conditions and also de- 
pends on the presence of fermenting agents. 

Concentrated Cider or Apple Syrup. — The sugar percentage 
is low in fresh cider, and it contains so much water that the 
market for it is limited. Methods of reducing its bulk and chang- 
ing it into an article which will keep throughout the year have 
been devised. Attention has often been called to the fact that 
when ordinary cider freezes part of the water separates and 
freezes, leaving unfrozen a concentrated cider having natural 
cider flavor and a reduced water content, a higher percentage of 
sugar and other solids. Experiments in boiling down fresh cider 
to secure a concentrated syrup gave a product with a distinctly 
acid flavor, due to an excess of acid known technically as malic 
or apple acid. The problem resolved itself into removing the 
excess of acid, and this was finally accomplished by adding car- 
bonate or milk of lime to the cider, which precipitates the acid 
and, after settling or filtering and boiling, yields a staple and at- 
tractive table syrup. This syrup has a fine flavor and will keep 



104 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

indefinitely in sealed containers like syrup made from cane or 
sorghum. Small quantities for home use can be made with 
ordinary utensils. 

Method for Making Apple Syrup. — The average farm house- 
wife who is provided with a large preserving kettle can easily 
make several quarts of apple syrup in her own kitchen. Although 
she may not find that she can sell her product profitably, she at 
least will find the method valuable in converting the windfalls 
of her own f anu into a delicate and pleasant syrup for the use 
of her family. This product is a palatable and valuable food. 

Methods — To make one gallon of apple syrup, stir into 
seven gallons of apple cider five ounces of powdered calcium 
carbonate (carbonate of lime), which is a low-priced chemical, 
readily obtainable from a local drug store in the form of pre- 
cipitated chalk or powdered marble-dust. Heat the cider and 
allow it to boil for a few minutes. As the cider will foam 
slightly, it is necessary to use a vessel at least one-third larger 
than the volume of cider. Pour the cider, after boiling, into 
vessels, preferably half-gallon preserving jars, which permit the 
condition of the liquid to be observed. Allow the liquid to 
settle until perfectly clear. This will take several hours or over 
night. After the liquid is perfectly clear and shows a distinct 
sediment at the bottom, pour oft* the clear portion into the 
preserving kettle, being careful not to pour off any of the 
sediment. Add to the clear licjuid a level teaspoonful of the 
carbonate of lime and again stir thoroughly. The process is 
completed by boiling down the clear liquid. Inasmuch as the 
liquid when boiling down foams more than on the first heating, 
the kettle should be only one-third full when boiling commences. 
Where a large kettle is not obtainable, the liquid will have to 
be boiled down in batches. Allow the liquid to boil rapidly. If 
the housewife has a thermometer, she should allow the liquid to 
boil until it reaches 220° Fahrenheit. Where no thermometer 
is at hand, boil the liquid until it reaches about one-seventh of 
the original volume, or until a small portion when cooled rapidly 



* From Vi'ar Ht>ok Separate 039, V. S. Department of Aj^riculture. 



FRUIT JUICES 105 

and poured from a spoon shows about the same consistency as 
maple syrup. The aim is to make a thin syrup rather than one 
that will candy. 

When the syrup has reached this point, pour it off into the 
jars and let it stand where it will cool very slowly. Slow cooling 
is very important in making the syrup clear, as it allows all 
sediment and added substances to settle out completely. A con- 
venient way of bringing about this slow cooling is to put the 
vessels into a fireless cooker or to put the jars containing the 
syrup in a wa^-boiler, surround them with hot water, and 
allow the whole to cool. When the syrup has cooled to room 
temperature there will be found a white sediment, which is known 
to chemists as malate of lime, a harmless compound of the lime 
and the acid of the apples. This is identical with the product 
known as maple sand, which occurs naturally when maple sap 
is boiled down into syrup. W^hen the settling has been com- 
pleted, carefully pour off the clear portion of the syrup into a 
kettle, heat nearly to boiling, and pour hot into sterilized jars, 
which should be at once sealed. 

Another method would be to transfer the boiling syrup from 
the preserving kettle into the sterilized bottles and seal imme- 
diately. The sediment which appears at the bottom in no way 
affects the s^Tup. When ready to serve, simply pour off the 
clear portion, leaving the sediment, which is not easily disturbed, 
at the bottom. The syrup might also be bottled while cold, 
processed, and sealed as for fruit juices. The syrup will be a 
clear, ruby-colored product, possibly varying from a deep-ruby 
red to lighter shades, according to the character of apples used 
in making the cider. This syrup is similar in consistency to 
maple syrup, and can be used like any other table syrup. If 
made in accordance with these directions it will have a delicate 
and novel flavor, somewhat similar to that of the sugar which 
forms when apples are baked. It will be found that children 
will enjoy it on bread and butter, and that it will afford a new 
and useful flavoring adjunct or sauce for puddings or other 
desserts. 



0S 



106 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

Muscadine Grape Syrup. — The process of making Muscadine 
grape syrup is very simple, and with proper care an inexperi- 
enced operator can succeed. Since the making of grape syrup is 
very similar to the methods used in making apple syrup, it is 
unnecessary to outline the procedure in detail. 

Varieties. — The varieties having the highest natural sugar 
and lowest natural acid content usually make the most delicious 
and highest quality syrup and also yield the most syrup per 
gallon of fresh juice. The Scuppemong, Thomas, Luola, Mish, 
and other similar varieties of high quality make the best syrups. 
The James makes a syrup of fair quality, while the Flowers and 
Eden varieties make syrups which, relatively speaking, would be 
called acid and rough. 

Pressing. — Cleanse the various parts of the press; scald it 
so that it will swell and will not leak. So soon as each pressing is 
completed it is important to remove all pomace from the press 
and to wash with clean water all the parts that have come in 
contact with the juice. This will prevent fermentation and 
souring at the press and the giving of foreign flavors to later 
lots of juice. 

Crush the grapes and then press them cold. The free-run 
or first juice that comes from the press is more desirable for 
syrup making than that which is secured under pressure. This 
is principally due to the fact that the free-run juice is higher 
in sugar content and lower in acid content than the pressed 
juice. When pressure is applied the juice flows freely at first 
and theii at a gradually slower and slower rate for many hours. 
The pomace should never be allowed to stand in the press longer 
than five or six hours. For many reasons it has been found 
desirable to press during the day, cook the juice the first time in 
the late afternoon or evening, allow it to stand in the precipitating 
jars over night, and boil it down to a syrup the next morning. 
A bushel of grapes will yield, when cold pressed, from two and 
a quarter to four gallons of fresh juice, depending upon the 
variety. Most varieties yield at least three gallons. On this 
basis, condensing the juice to one-ninth of its volume, which has 



FRUiT JUICES 



107 



been found to give a syrup of satiefying consistency, one bushel 
of graphs, cold pressed, should yield one and one-third quarts 
of syrup. Heated grapes yield more juice tftiaa cold-pressed 
grapes, but make a syrup of inferior quality. 

Heating. — Heat the juice and strain it. To every six quarts 
of fresh Muscadine juice stir in two ounces of powdered calcium 
carbonate (carbonate of lime) to remove the acids. Boil for 
six or eight minutes as with apple syrup, and pour hot into 
sterilized glass jars or pitchers. Allow the liquid to stand over 
night. Four off the clear portion into a cookiug vessel, being 




ho. 77. — Uteiuiti lued id mikinc Mufcadina 



careful not to pour off any of the sediment Add one-sixth 
of a level teaspoonful of calcium carbonate for each six quarts 
of fresh grape juice which it represents. 

Complete the process by boiling down the clear liquid, being 
careful to keep the caramel forming on the inside of the pan 
wiped off with a wet cloth so that scorched caramel will not fall 
into the ^rup and cause it to have a burned flavor. Boil the 
liquid, 'being careful not to allow it to bum when it is nearly 



0S 



108 SUCCESSFUL CANNIKO AND PRfiSSEVlNC 

done. Skim during the cooking process and continue the cooking 
as for apple syrup. 

Cooling. — When the syrup has reached the proper thickness, 
pour it oflF into the jars, cover, and place them in a hot-water 
bath or in a fireless cooker where they will cool very slowly. 
Slow cooling is important in order to obtain a clear syrup. 

When the syrup has cooled to room temperature it can be 
bottled. 

Bottling.— Pour oflf the clear syrup, leaving behind the sedi- 
ment, which is not easily disturbed. Bottle, sterilize, and seal at 
once (Fig. 77). 

Fruit Syrups. — ^Fruit syrups which are left over from can- 
ning either small or large fruits should be bottled, pasteurized, 
sealed, and stored away to be used for flavoring or making 
beverages. A delicious drink is made by adding two or three 
teaspoonfuls of fruit syrup and the juice of one-half lemon to a 
glass of cold water. They may also be used for flavoring ice- 
creams, sherbets, and other desserts. 

Such fruits as peaches, strawberries, and pineapples give 
more satisfactory results when made into syrups before bottling. 
Sugar helps to develop the flavor of these fruits. Sauces for 
sundaes and for flavoring are often made from red cherries, 
plums, currants, red and black raspberries, strawberries, black- 
berries, apricots, peaches, rhubarb, pineapples, and lemons. A 
good proportion to use for berries and small fruits is two cup- 
fuls sugar to each quart of juice. 

For each quart grat«^d fresh pineapple allow two pounds sugar to one 
cupful of water. 

For each pound apricots, fresli fruit, allow one pound sugar to one pint 
of water. 

For each two pounds peaches, fresh fruit, allow one pound sugar to 
one cupful of water. 

For each quart rhubarb juice allow two pounds sugar. 

For each cupful lemon juice, one tablespoonful of grated rind, allow one 
pound of sugar to one cupful of water. 

General Method of Preparing Vinegar. — Cider vinegar is fre- 
quently made in the country home, but often when this product 



FRUIT JUICES 109 

is put on the market it is found to fall short in one require- 
ment or another. The need of a careful study of this process 
is necessary, because the expense attached to its production is 
small, since Nature does most of the work, and can be utilized 
in the home or sold as one of the by-products to increase the 
income of the farm. 

MAKING CIDER VINEGAR AT HOME ^ 

Why Study Was Needed. — The making]: of cider vinegar is a 
familiar operation in almost every farm home (Fig. 78). The 
final product is a necessity on every table, tiie small apples 
from which it is usually made are of practically no value for 
other purposes, the labor and expense of picking them up and 
pressing them are slight, and from the time the eider is in the 
barrel Nature does the work. Thus the process appears a simple 
one, easy to start, and self-operated to its termination in a salable 
commodity; so that the work-burdened farmer, with several 
barrels of cider in his cellar, may, in his few moments of leisure, 
think with pleasure of this farm operation which will bring him 
profit without further outlay of strength or money. 

Yet vinegar is a food product and, as such, has come under 
the eye of state law, which says that to be legally salable the 
finished goods must meet certain requirements. Cider vinegar 
must contain 4.5 per cent of acetic acid and 2 per cent of cider 
vinegar solids before it can be lawfully sold, and frequently 
farmers who have made vinegar from pure apple juice only, and 
who have stored this under what they believe to be proper con- 
ditions for the proper length of time, find that their product 
falls short in one requirement or the other. Thus, without 
fraudulent intent or attempt at adulteration or dilution, the 
homemade vinegar falls under suspicion. Complaints of this 
condition reached the New York station in considerable number 
some years ago, and in an efl^ort to find the cause or causes of the 
difficulty an extensive investigation of the subject has been made. 

•These directions are quoted from X. Y. State Agricultural Experiment 
Station Bulletin No. 258, written by F. H. Hall. 



110 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

Cider has been pressed during different years and from different 
varieties of apples, and has been stored under varied conditions, 
with and without additions of yeast, ** mother" or additional 
malic (apple) acid. In all, thirty-six experiments have been 
carried through periods of time varying from forty-four months 
to seven years. Each sample of cider was analyzed monthly for 
ten months and at two-month or three-month intervals after that 
time, attention being paid to seven constituents in most of the 
analyses; so that a great amount of data has been collected, of 
much chemical interest and practical value. 

Simple Yet Complex. — As seen by the farmer, vinegar mak- 
ing is a simple process ; to the chemist, though less intricate than 
many other chemical transformations, it is complex ; while to the 
biologist the various steps in the change of sugar in the fresh 
apple juice to the acetic acid of vinegar are manifestations of 
very complex life activities of many species of organisms, divided 
into two great groups, 3'^easts and bacteria, each group perform- 
ing a specific function in the change. There may also come into 
action, under certain unfavorable conditions, other bacteria which 
hinder the useful transformations, or which destroy the prod- 
ucts desired and thus lower the quality of the vinegar. This 
interplay of living organisms, sometimes for good, sometimes for 
ill, has not been studied in all its details, and has been consid- 
ered, in this investigation, only as results were produced, the 
chemical transformations alone being considered. 

Chemistry of Vinegar Making. — In a general way these 
transformations are two: Sugar, the ordinary cane-sugar and 
other forms known as invert sugars (dextrose and laevulose), in 
the sweet cider, is first changed into alcohol through the fermen- 
tative action of one group of organisms ; then the alcohol, by the 
action of a second group of orj^anisms, is changed to acetic acid. 

Chemically considered, each molecule of sugar consists of six 
atoms of carbon, twelve atoms of hydrogen, and six atoms of 
oxygen. When this molecule of sugar is acted upon by the proper 
ferments, it passes through a series of chemical changes which 
may be said to result, finally, in splitting it up into two molecules 
of alcohol, each containing two atoms of carbon, six of hydro- 



FRUIT JUICES 111 

gen, and one of oxygen, and two molecules of carbon dioxide gas, 
each containing one atom of carbon and two of oxygen. This 
may be expressed in the form of an equation : 

Sugar Alcohol Carbon dioxide 

CHmO, = 2C,H«0 -h 2C0, 

Theoretically, we should be able to get from 100 parts of 
sugar by weight about 51 parts of alcohol and 49 parts of carbon 
dioxide ; but because of evaporation and certain minor chemical 
changes we can get in practice only about 45 to 47 parts of alco- 
hol or less. 

After the alcohol is formed, the organisms which act upon 
it begin the transformation to acetic acid. In this process oxy- 
gen is taken from the air. The result may be similarly repre- 
sented by an equation ; 

Alcohol Oxygen Acetic acid Water 

CJIiiO -h O, = CH4O, -h H,0 

Theoretically, again, we should obtain from 100 parts of 
alcohol about 130 parts of acetic acid, but we usually get less 
than 120 parts. So, starting with 100 parts of sugar in the 
apple juice, we may get under favorable conditions from 50 to 
55 parts of acetic acid; therefore to have vinegar with 4.5 per 
cent of acetic acid we must have juice containing not less than 
8.5 per cent of sugar. 

Sugar in Apples. — This percentage, however, is found in 
practically all ripe, sound apples, although in a record of about 
100 analyses of 80 varieties of American-grown apples, made at 
N. Y. station, in Washington, D. C, in Pennsylvania, and in Vir- 
ginia, five samples, of as many different varieties, were too low 
in sugar to produce vinegar of the required acidity. The sugar 
in apples reaches its maximum in ripe fruit, being low both in 
those that are green and those that are over-ripe. It averaged, in 
the apples used in the tests at N. Y. station, 13i/^ per cent, and 
varied less than 2 per cent either above or below the average. 
A somewhat surprising fact to those not familiar with the chem- 
istry of the subject is that ** sweet" apples do not owe their 
sweetness to their large percentage of sugar, but to the small 



MHKT- 



112 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

• 

amount of malic acid they contain. For example, the sample of 
Red Astrachan juice contained 10.16 per cent of sugar and 1.15 
per cent of malic acid; while Tolman Sweet and Sweet Bough 
contain about the same amount of sugar, but only 0.10 to 0.20 
per cent of malic acid. 

Alcoholic Fermentation. — Starting, then, with juice contain- 
ing sufficient sugar, what are the conditions which will best 
promote the changes to alcohol and to vinegar and prevent loss ? 
The sugar must first be acted upon by the enzymes, or ferments, 
which are produced by yeast plants. The yeast germs are usu- 
ally present everywhere, so that they pass from the surface of 
the apples into the juice as it is pressed out, or fall into the 
cider from the air. It has sometimes been held unwise to wash 
apples before pressing them, for fear of carrying away the neces- 
sary yeast germs; but the apples used in all the station tests 
were washed wufchout apparent interference w4th alcoholic fer- 
mentation. If apples have become dirty it is certainly best to 
wash them, as otherwise there is danger of introducing bacteria 
that interfere with proper fermentation. In ordinary cellar 
temperature, most of the sugar is changed into alcohol in five or 
six months, the change being slow during the first month, but 
quite rapid during the second, third, and fourth months. The 
process may be greatly hastened by storing in rooms warmer 
than cellars usually are during the fall and winter months. By 
placing bottles of vinegar in rooms of different temperature, 
running from 55° to 85° Farhenheit it was found that at 55° 
only 21/4 per cent of alcohol was formed in three months; at 60^ 
and 65° Fahrenheit, more than 4^/^ per cent; and at 70° and 
85° Fahrenheit, about 6i/i> per cent was formed in the same 
time. At higher temperatures than this, evaporation of the 
alcohol would be liable to cause loss. 

The addition of yeast also hastens alcohol formation, so that 
at a temperature of 55° Fahrenheit cider with yeast added gave 
61/4 per cent of alcohol, and at 70° Fahrenheit, with yeast, 714 
per cent, both in one month. The use of any form of commercial 
yeast, if sufficiently fresh, will probably be found to give good 
results. 



FRUIT JUICES 113 

Acetic Fermentation. — After the yeast fermentation has been 
completed the acetic-acid forming bacteria begin to attack the 
alcohol and produce acetic acid. This process is ordinarily very 
slow for about three months after the sugar has all been changed 
to alcohol (that is, during the eighth, ninth, and tenth months 
of cellar storage), but advances rapidly from the tenth to the 
fourteenth month and is practically completed in two years. 
This process also moves more rapidly, when once well started, at 
higher temperatures; but differences of temperature appear to 
have little effect during the three months after the sugar has 
disappeared. Beginning with the tenth month of storage, how- 
c'ver, and up to the end of two and one-half years, nearly twice 
as great a percentage of acetic acid was produced where the 
temperature varied from 50° to 90° Fahrenheit as where it was 
from 45° to 65° Fahrenheit. The percentage of acid formed at 
lower temperatures never became as great as at higher tempera- 
tures, though part of the apparent increase in the warm room 
was due to evaporation of the water. The best results were 
secured at temperatures of 65° to 70° Fahrenheit. 

It is the ordinarj^ practice to add vinegar, especially vine- 
gar containing ** mother, '' to the barrels in which vinegar is 
making; and the investigation proved the practice a most excel- 
lent one, as the acetic fermentation was more rapid and more 
complete in every case where this form of inoculation or ** seed- 
ing" w^as used. This addition of ** mother'* is comparable to 
the addition of a ** starter '* in souring milk, for the ** mother" 
is produced by the growth of the acetic bacteria in the presence 
of air and contains large numbers of these bacteria. 

It appears to be of advantage in some cases to draw off the 
clear portion of the cider after alcoholic fermentation has been 
completed, leaving the dregs; and to continue the process in 
new, clean barrels or to wash out the settlings and return the 
clear liquid to the barrels. This proved of considerable advan- 
tage in the case of vinegars stored at low temperatures, but of 
less utility w^hen the vinegar was stored at higher temperatures 
where the acetic fermentation proceeded rapidly. Possibly with 
eider made from uncleaned apples and carelessly strained juice 
8 



114 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

the results along this line would be more striking ; for the liability 
to contamination with undesirable germs would be greater in 
such cases. 

Loss of Acetic Acid. — In both alcoholic fermentation and 
acetic fermentation the air should have free access, especially in 
the latter; for, as can be seen by the equation given to explain 
the process, oxygen must be added to alcohol to make the acetic 
acid, and this must come largely from the air. On this account 
the barrels should not be filled more than two-thirds or three- 
fourths full with the apple juice or with the *'hard'' cider. But 
when the acetic fermentation has ceased to be active and the 
amount of acetic acid is safely above 4Vi» per cent the vinegar 
should be drawn from the barrels and strained, the barrels 
cleansed, the vinegar returned, filling the barrels full, and the 
bung driven in tight. 

Unless tihis is done, desti-uctivi? fermentation may begin and 
the acetic acid decrease instead of increasing. In several experi- 
ments where the vinegar was held in loosely stoppered casks or 
bottles it lost all or nearly all its acid, and in some cases actually 
became alkaline in reaction. This destnictive fermentation may 
be due to new^ species of bacteria introduced, or even in some 
cases to the same acetic acid-forming species which, when the 
alcohol is exhausted, attack the acetic acid itself. 

As showing how complex may be the processes passing in 
vinegar, the case may be cited of four one-quart bottles of the 
same juice stored under the same general conditions. At the 
end of five years bottles A and B contained 5.74 and 5.44 per 
cent, respectively, of acetic acid, bottle C 2.10 per cent, and 
bottle D gave an alkaline reaction. Bottles A and C contained 
nearly three times and bottle B two and one-half times as much 
solids as bottle D. 

Malic Acid. — The acid of fresh apple juice is not the acid of 
vinegar, but a fixed acid called malic acid. This has certain 
chemical characteristics which make it quite easily recognizable; 
and so its presence in vinegar has been considered an index to 
determine wiiether the vinegar was or was not tinily vinegar from 
apples. But these investigations have proved that this acid dis- 



FRUIT JUICES 115 

appears quite rapidly from vinegar, so that in twenty-four 
months it had shrunk from an average of 0.55 per cent to 0.02 
per cent; while in some older vinegars it had disappeared en- 
tirely. The relation of malic acid to cider vinegar is being further 
studied. 

Legal Standard. — The legal standard of the state for acid, 4V^ 
per cent of acetic acid, has been upheld fully by these results; 
for apple juice from good ripe apples, properly managed in 
fermentation, should and does easily give 4iA per cent of acetic 
acid within two years at cellar temperatures and in less time 
at higher temperatures. 

Concerning solids, the wisdom of the standard is not quite so 
clear. In several experiments made in this investigation, vine- 
gars made from pure apple juice and well above the limit in acid 
contain less than two per cent of solids. 

Conditions Producing Poor Vinegar. — Among the conditions 
which may produce vinegar below standard are these: (1) The 
juice may be poor to start with because made from varieties of 
apples low in sugar, from green apples or from over-ripe or de- 
cayed apples; or the juice may be watered either directly or by 
watering the pomace and pressing a second time. (2) The fer- 
mentation processes may be delayed or disturbed by using dirty 
fruit or unclean barrels, thus affording entrance to undesirable 
organisms and causing the wrong kind of fermentation ; the tem- 
perature may be too low to insure the necessary activity of favor- 
able organisms; or air may be excluded by filling the barrels 
too full or putting the bung in too tight so that the bacteria can- 
not live and work. (3) The acetic acid may disappear after its 
formation, destructive fermentation being encouraged by leaving 
the bung-hole of the barrel open or the barrel only partially full. 

To Make Good Vinegar. — Briefly summarized, the method to 
be employed for the manufacture of good vinegar at home, with- 
out the use of generators, is this : Use sound, ripe apples, picked 
or picked up before they have become dirty, if possible, other- 
wise washed. Observe the ordinary precautions to secure clean- 
liness in grinding and pressing, and discard all juice from second 
pressings. If possible, let the juice stand in some large recep- 



116 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



tacle for a few days to settle, then draw off the clear portion into 
well-cleaned barrels which have been treated with steam or boil- 
iDg water, filling them only two-thirds or three-fourths full. 
Leave the bung out, but put in a loose plug of cotton to decrease 
evaporation and to prevent the entrance of dirt. If these barrels 
are stored in ordinary cellars, where the temperature does not go 
below 50° or 45° Fahrenheit, the alcoholic fermentation will be 
complete in about six months ^ but by having the storage room 
at a temperature of 65° or 70° the time can be considerably 
shortened, and the addition of compressed yeast or its equivalent 
at the rate of one cake to five gallons of juice may reduce the 
time to three months or less. Use a little water to thoroughly 
disintegrate the yeast cake before adding it to the juice. The tem- 
perature should not go above 70° for any length of time, to avoid 
loss of the alcohol by evaporation. 




Fio 78— M«kin« 



After the sugar has all disappeared from the juice {that is, 
when the cider has entirely ceased "working" as revealed by 
the absence of ^as bubbles), draw off the clear portion of the 
cider, rinse out the barrel, replace the liquid and add two to four 
quarts of good vinegar containing; some "mother," and place at 
a temperature of 65° to 75° Fahrenheit, The acetic fermenta- 



FRUIT JUICES 117 

tion may be complete in three months or may take eighteen 
months, according to the conditions under which it is carried on ; 
or if stored in cool cellars may take two years or more. If the 
alcoholic fermentation be carried on in the cool cellar and the 
barrel be then taken to a warmer place, as outdoors during the 
summer, the time of vinegar formation may be reduced from 
that given above to fifteen or eighteen months. Where the alco- 
holic fermentation is hastened by warm temperature storage and 
the use of yeast and the acetic fermentation favored by warmth 
and a good vinegar ** start, '* it is possible to produce good 
merchantable vinegar in casks in six or twelve months. 

When the acetic fermentation has gone far enough to produce 
4.5 to 5 per cent of acetic acid, the barrels should be made as full 
as possible and tightly corked in order to prevent destructive 
changes and consequent deterioration of the vinegar. 

RECIPES 

Bottling Juice of Grape Fruit.® — Bring the grape-fruit juice 
to the boiling-point in a porcelain-lined or enamelled kettle, pour 
it while still hot into sterilized bottles, and seal hermetically. 
The juice when so handled will keep indefinitely, and provides a 
base for * * grapef ruitade ' * or other acid beverages having the 
characteristic acid, somewhat bitter, flavor of the fruit. Experi- 
ments show, however, that it is highly important that the bottle 
be completely filled, so that no layer of air will be left between 
the top of the juice and the cork or seal. When air in any amount 
comes in contact with the top of the sterilized juice it will cause 
the juice to change its color. In handling the juice it is particu- 
larly important that it be kept from coming into contact with 
iron or other metals easily acted upon by fruit acids. 

The investigators found also that it was possible to freeze the 
grape-fruit juice into solid ice and then, by whirling the ice in a 
centrifugal machine, to take out a larger part of the water and 
leave the solids and flavoring matter of the fruit. This freezing 
and concentrating of the juice greatly reduces the bulk and 



•This recipe was prepared by the Bureau of Chemistry, U. S. Depart- 
ment of Agriculture. 



■&«dl 



118 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

makes a product which can be sterilized by heating and kept 
indefinitely. 

Clarifying Juke, — Those who wish to make a clear juice may 
filter the grape-fruit juice before it is heated by adding to it 
from two to three per cent (about three ounces avoirdupois to the 
gallon) of infusorial earth well washed with hot water. The 
mixture is then forced through a non-metallic filter-press and the 
clear juice reheated and boiled. With the freezing process, the 
juice is filtered after concentration, about twice the amount of 
infusorial earth being used per gallon of concentrate. 

The chemists, in connection with this bottling of grape-fruit 
juice, notify the public that the same process is not suitable for 
bottling the juice of oranges and lemons, which will not retain 
their flavor if handled in this way. 

While as yet, so far as known, there is no commercial market 
for sterilized grape-fruit juice, it is believed that many persons 
will find this juice, with the addition of w^ater and sugar, a 
pleasant variation from lemonade or limeade. Those who like 
grape-fruit should find the beverage inviting. The method is so 
simple that those in regions where grape-fruit are cheap and 
plentiful can prepare this product on a small scale with ordi- 
nary household appliances. 

Bottling Grape Juice. — Juice compressed from the various 
cultivated grapes can be bottled. Recipes follow for leading 
Southern and Northern varieties. 

Scuppernong Grape Juice. — After w ashing the grapes, crush 
while heating them. Fruit juice will flow^ more readily when the 
fruit is heated, but the pulp should not be allowed to boil. 
When the pulp is thoroughly soft, strain through a double cheese- 
cloth and squeeze as much juice through it as possible, then strain 
the juice through a flannel cloth without squeezing. This will 
give a clear juice. After this heat the juice to 180^ Fahrenheit, 
skim and strain into sterilized bottles, place the corks in loosely, 
place the bottles on a rack in the water-bath, and pasteurize for 
fifteen minutes at a temperature of 180° Fahrenheit. Pound 
the cork in tightly, dip the top of the bottle into sealing wax, and 
store away in a dark, dry place. If this juice is to be used for a 



FRUIT JUICES 119 

beverage and sugar is desired, it may be sweetened to taste be- 
fore heating and pouring into the bottles. 

Scuppemong juice packed in this way can be used for making 
jelly later in the season. However, the jelly made from this juice 
will not be firm enough unless half the quantity of the grapes 
used are green and the other half ripe. The green grapes will 
furnish suflficient pectin to give it the proper consistency, and 
the ripe ones will furnish the color and flavor. 

Unfermented Concord or Niagara Grape Juice. — To every 
five pounds of Concord or Niagara grapes use one pint of water. 
Crush grapes, add water, bring to boil, and strain through jelly- 
bag. Add one-half cupful of granulated sugar to every quart 
of juice. Bring just to a boil and pour into sterilized bottles, 
pasteurize, and seal air-tight. 

Berry shrub may be made of strawberries, raspberries, or 
dewberries. Select sound fruit, wash, measure, and place in a 
stone jar. For every four quarts of berries use one quart of vine- 
gar. Cover the jar by tying a cheesecloth over it. Stir the berries 
daily for three or four days. If the weather is very warm do not 
let it stand over three days. Strain without squeezing and put 
into kettle, allowing one pound of sugar to each pint of liquid. 
Boil slowly for five miiuites, bottle, cork, and seal. Dilute with 
cold water for serving. 

WAYS TO USE FRUIT JUICES 

Grape Cup. — To three pints of grape juice add four whole 
cloves, one cupful of sugar, the juice of four oranges with one- 
half grated orange rind and a few leaves of lemon verbena or 
mint. Bring to boiling-point, cool, and let stand to ripen for two 
or three hours. When ready to use, stir in the stiffly beaten whites 
of three eggs, a quart of unfermented grape juice, and a pint of 
water, and serve in tumblers with ice. 

Fruit Cup. — Two tablespoon fuls of green tea, two quarts of 
boiling water, two cupfuls of sugar, juice of one orange, one cup- 
ful of currant juice, juice of two lemons. Pour water over tea, 
let stand five minutes, then strain over the sugar; add lemon and 
orange juices, cool, and let ripen in a cool place for six hours. 



-— ..*_.l-m..«JS-A. 



120 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

When ready to serve, add the currant juice, pour over cracked 
ice in deep glasses, garnishing each serving with a small, old- 
fashioned yellow rose or a sprig of mint. If desired, the cracked 
ice may be omitted, the punch being poured over raspberry ice 
or peach or pineapple sherbet instead. 

Fruit Punch. — One quart of raspberry juice, one quart of 
currant juice, three lemons, one pineapple, two quarts of cold 
water, three oranges. Sweeten to taste. 

Cherry Punch. — Take one quart of cherry juice and add a few 
crushed cherries. To one and one-half pints -of hot juice and 
pulp add three-quarters of a pound of sugar, one cupful of 
water, juice of one lemon. When sugar dissolves, cool the mix- 
ture and freeze. When half frozen, add beaten white of one egg 
and one ounce of crushed cherries. 

Grape Punch. — Juice of two lemons, juice of one orange, one 
pint of grape juice, one quart of water, one cupful of sugar, one 
cupful of shredded canned pineapple or one pint of cherries. 
Combine and let stand several hours to ripen before serving. 

Orange Ice. — The juice of six oranges and four lemons, five 
cupfuls of sugar, and tlie grated rinds of two oranges. Pour boil- 
ing water over other oranges and lemon rinds. Let stand fifteen 
minutes and strain. Pour tlie flavored water over the other in- 
gredients, and add enough cold water to make one gallon. Freeze 
and serve in orange glasses or orange skins. 

Strawberry Ice. — Two cupfuls of water, three-(iuartei's cupful 
of sugar. Boil from i\\e to ten minutes. Add one cupful of 
strawberry juice, one-half or one tablespoonful of lemon juice, 
one or two sheets of gelatin. Soak gelatin in little water. Bring 
sugar and water to boil. Pour over gelatin. Stir until dissolved 
and strain into strawberry juice. Freeze. 

Raspberry Ice. — One quart of raspberry juice, one quart of 
water, three tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, three and one-quarter 
cupfuls of sugar, l^oil sugar and water for twenty minutes ; cool, 
add berry juice and lemon juice, and freeze in three parts ice to 
one part salt. For a rose-colored ice use only the red berries, but 
for a rich wine color use part or all black raspberries. 

Raspberry Float. — Take one-half cupful of red raspberry 



FRUIT JUICES 121 

juice and one cupful of fruit. Mix in gradually two tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar. Beat the whites of two eggs until stiflE 
and fold into them the sweetened raspberries. 

Blackberry Flummery. — Boil one quart of blackberry juice. 
Rub together four tablespoonfuls of corn-starch and four tea- 
spoonfuls of sugar, add to fruit juice, and boil for ten minutes. 
Strain, cool, and serve with cream or custard. 

Grape Frappe. — One pint of grape juice and one pint of 
water. Heat to boiling-point and strain through cheesecloth. 
Add juice of two lemons and one-half cupful of sugar. Strain 
and freeze. 

Fruit Nectar. — One quart of hot water, one pint of grape- 
fruitade, one egg-white, one-half cupful of finely chopped mint 
leaves, two cupfuls of sugar, four oranges, four lemons. Boil 
the sugar and water for ten minutes. Cool, add the fruit juice, 
and freeze in three parts ice to one part salt. When half frozen, 
add the egg-white well beaten. Pack in ice and salt two or three 
hours to ripen. When ready to serve, half fill tall glasses with 
the ice and pour over the grapefruitade, which should be freshly 
opened. Scatter finely chopped, fresh, or candied mint leaves 
over each serving. 

Apollinaris Tea. — Two quarts of apollinaris water, one gallon 
of strong tea, three dozen lemons, one-half dozen oranges cut in 
small pieces with peelings, one quart of cherry juice, one quart 
of grape juice ; sweeten to taste. Serve with crushed ice in punch- 
bowl. This makes enough for one hundred people. 

QUESTIONS 

1. For what purposes may bottled fruit juices be used in the home? 

2. At what point should care begin in our endeavor to secure a good bot- 

tled fruit juice? 

3. Why cannot green fruit or over-ripe fruit be used in making an ex- 

cellent fruit juice? 

4. Why would bruising the fruit in packing or by careless washing produce 

an inferior product ? 

5. What is meant by the " free-run juioe" of the grape? What method is 

used in obtaining it? For what purpose is it used? How does free- 
run juice differ from the total juice? 

6. What advantage has the juice obtained by the hot process over that ob- 

tained by the cold process? 



122 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

7. Why is the hot process necessary when the juice is to be used in jelly 

making? 

8. How may the color and flavor be retained when using the hot process? 

9. Why should fruit juices not be boiled? How may they be reheated with- 

out danger of boiling? 

10. What precautions arc necessary in handling the filtered juice that the 

product may be as clear as possible? 

11. What is the difference between pasteurization and sterilization? 

12. What precaution should be taken to prevent the corks blowing out during 

the pasteurization? 

13. What fact makes necessary the false bottom in all canners and pas- 

teurizers? 

14. What is meant by the term '* simmer " ? How can you tell when water 

is simmering? 

15. Why ia it necessary to cover the cork and one inch of the bottle with 

wax? 

16. Why is it necessary to store fruit juices in a dark place? 

17. How will economy determine the size of the l)ottle prepared for home 

use? 

18. Under what conditions would the making of apple syrup be economical 

on the farm? 

19. Give an outline of the method for makinpr grape syrup, including under 

each step the special care needed that the final product may reach the 
Htandard desired. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

1. " Creole Cook Book," 1914. Published by the Picayune, New Orleans, La. 

By mail, $1.2.'). 

2. Deabing, Chaules T., United States Department of Agriculture, Farm- 

ers' Bulletin 758, " Muscadine Grape Syrup," 1916. Can be secured 
from the Secretary of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 

3. Farmer, Fannie Merritt. " Boston Cooking School Cook Book," 1907. 

Published by Little, Brown & Co., Boston, Mass. $1.80. 

4. Gore, H. C. United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of 

Cheminstry, ** Studies on Fruit Juices," Bulletin No. 241, June, 1915. 
Can be purchased from the Superintendent of Documents, Government 
Printing Office, Washington, D. C. 5 cents. 

5. Haix, F. H., and Van Slyke, L. L., New York Agricultural Experiment 

Station, ''Making Cider Vinegar at Home," Bulletin No. 258«, De- 
cember, 1904. New York Agricultural Experiment Station, Geneva, 
N.Y. 

6. Husemann, George C, United States Department of Agriculture, Farm- 

erw' Bulletin No. 644, " Manufacture and Use of Unfermented Grape 
Juice," April, 1915. Can be secured from the Secretary of Agricul- 
ture, Washington, D, C, 



FRUIT JUICES 123 

7. Keen, Adelaide, "With a Sauce Pan Over the Sea," 1902. Published 

by Little, Brown & Co., Boston, Ma8s. $1.50. 

8. Smith, Frances Lowe, '* Recipes and Menus for Fifty,'* 1913. Pub- 

lished by Whitcomb & Barrows, Boston, Mass. $1.50. 

9. United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, '* Apple 

Syrup and Concentrated Cider " ; ** New Products for Utilizing Sur- 
plus and Cull Apples,** by H. C. Gore, Yearbook Separate 639, from 
Yearbook of the Department of Agriculture for 1914. Can be pur- 
chased from the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing 
Office, Washington, D. C. 5 cents. 

10. United States Department of Commerce, Bureau of Foreign and Do- 

mestic Commerce, '* Pineapple Canning Industry of the World." 

11. Van Slyke, L. L., "Chemistry of Homemade Cider Vinegar," New 

York Experiment Station Bulletin No. 258. Geneva, New York. 



r>^^^^aU^aaA>^B=S^KdH_b. 



CHAPTER IX 

FRUITS FOR CANNING 

Apples. — Only sound, smooth, medium-sized cooking apples 
should be canned. The late fall and winter varieties are usually 
slightly acid, and they retain their flavor better than do the sweet 
varieties. Apples shrink more in canning than most fruits, and 
for this reason they should be blanched for one minute, tKen 
plunged into a cold bath, packed, and covered with a syrup of 10 
to 15 degrees density (see p. 132). 

Process quart jars ten minutes. Exhaust No. 3 cans two min- 
utes and process eight minutes at boiling temperature (212° 
Fahrenheit) in water-bath. 

Apple Sauce. — Peel, core, and steam the apples until soft, run 
through colander, return to the fire and heat thoroughly, pack 
hot into cans or jars, and seal at once. Process ten minutes at 
212° Fahrenheit in a hot-water bath. 

Berries. — For dewberries, blackberries, raspberries, and 
Logan berries, practically the same methods of canning may be 
used. The condition of the fruit will have much to do with the 
quality of the product. The berries should be gathered in shal- 
low trays or baskets and not in deep vessels which allow them to 
be bruised and crushed. They should be uniformly ripe, sound, 
and as large as possible. It is necessary to can all varieties of 
berries in glass or else to put them in enamel-lined cans, be- 
cause if canned in ordinary tin cans the berries will lose both 
color and flavor very quickly, and be unfit for use or for sale. 

The flavor of canned berries will be finer if sugar is used in 
canning. It is best to make this into a syrup. The use of berry 
juice instead of water in this syrup will give a richer color and 
flavor. For fine berries, use a syrup of 30 degrees density (about 
three and one-half pounds of sugar to one gallon of berry juice or 
water). 

After the berries have been carefully sorted and lightly washed 
124 



FRUITS FOR CANNING 125 

by placing in colander and pouring water over them (instead 
of putting into a pan of water) , pack as closely as possible with- 
out crushing. This can be done better by putting a few berries in 
the jar or can, pressing them gently into place, and proceeding 
layer by layer, than by nearly filling the jar loosely and then try- 
ing to press them down. 

Fill jars full of fruit and cover with cooled syrup. Fit the 
rubber in place and fasten the lid loosely on glass jar and then 
process pints for six minutes and quarts for twelve minutes, 
counting the time after boiling begins. When packing in tin 
cans, fill them to within one-quarter of an inch of the top, cover 
with syrup. Dry the groove around the opening with a clean 
cloth and cap. Exhaust in tin for three minutes and process No. 
2 cans for eight minutes and No. 3 cans for ten minutes. No. 
10 's should be exhausted four minutes and processed for thirty 
minutes. 

Cherries. — Cherries keep their flavor and color with difficulty 
in tin, even in enamel-lined cans. For this reason glass is prefer- 
able. The large black and sweet white elierries are usually packed 
unpitted, while the reverse is true of the acid cherries. The un- 
pitted cherries present a better appearance, and many people 
like the distinctive flavor which the retained pit gives to the 
product. When cherries are canned whole they should be 
blanched in hot water at about 180° Fahrenheit for twenty or 
thirty seconds. This will slightly soften the fruit and prevent 
splitting. Then drop cherries into a cool syrup and they will 
plump considerably before packing cold into jars. For sour 
cherries use a syrup of 40 degrees density, and for sweet ones 
use a 30-degree syrup (see Syrup table, p. 132). Process 
quart jars for twenty-five minutes; exhaust No. 2 cans for two 
minutes and process for twenty minutes in a water-bath at boil- 
ing temperature (212° Fahrenheit). Both the exhausting and 
processing of cherries in quart jars are accomplished at the same 
time. 

Figs. — Figs for canning should be sound and firm (Fig. 79). 
Treat them with a soda bath as for preserving. Rinse through 
two cold-water baths, drain and cook for forty to sixty minutes in 



126 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

the syrup (two cupfuls of sugar, four cupfuls of water). Cool, 
pack, and cover with the syrup and process for thirty minutes 
in quart jars. When canning in tin the figs retain a better 
color and flavor when canned in enamel-lined cans. 

Gooseberries. — Because of extreme acidity green gooseberries 
can be safely canned without processing. The berries are picked 
when nearly full grow n, but green. Stem, wash, pack into jars, 
cover with fresh cold water, and allow the jars to stand for ten 
minutes. Drain off the water and again fill to overflowing with 
fresh cold water and seal, using sterilized rubbers and lids. 
Gooseberries canned in this way are used for pies. 

Rhubarb may be canned in the same manner as gooseberries. 

Peaches. — Sort the fruit, using firm, sound, uniform peaches 
for canning, and putting aside the soft, broken ones for jam. A 
few very large peaches are sometimes canned whole in a heavy 
syrup and are called ]\Ielba peaches. 

Firm, perfect peaches may be lye peeled, but if very ripe the 
fruit is made too soft by this process. The lye method of peeling 
is superseding the former methods of peeling by hand or by 
boiling water. The objections to this metliod were no doubt due in 
some measure to improper usage. Have ready a boiling lye solu- 
tion (four tablespoonfuls of concentrated lye to one gallon of 
water). Drop the peaches into this for about twenty to thirty 
seconds, lift them out, and drop into clear boiling water for a 
like period. After this place them into a cold bath, when the skins 
will come off easily. Cut them into halves, remove the seeds, 
and immerse fruit in a hot syrup testing about 80 to 40 degrees 
with a **Brix*' spindle. The percentage of solids in a liquid is 
indicated by the reading at the surface of the liquid when the 
Brix hydrometer is floated in it (pp. 131 and 132). Allow them 
to stand in this syrup until thoroughly cold, then pack, placing 
the halves in overlapping layers, the concave surface of each half 
being downward and the blossom end facing the glass. Pill each 



Note. — If the peaches are not firm, they may l)e peeled by lowering 
tlicm in a wire basket or cheesecloth into boiling water until the skins slip 
easily (about one minute), remove, plunge for a minute into cold water, and 
slip off the skins (Plate T). 



FRUITS FOR CANNIXG 




SUCCESSFUL CAXXINli AND I'KKSERVING 

jar or can with strained Kjrup aud paddle care- 
fully to remove air bubbles. Exhaust \o. -i cana 
three minutes, process for fifteen minutes. In 
glass, process quart jars for twenty minutes and 
half gallons for thirty-five minntes. 

Pears.— Select pears ripe, but not soft. Some- 
times whole Seckel pears are canned, but the 
Bartlett pear is preferred to other varieties for 
canning, due to its texture and flavor. Pare, 
blanch, put into a cold soda bath [one teaspoonful 
of soda to one gallon of water), drain and pack 
rapidly. When packed whole, leave stems on and 
place each layer stems up, letting the second row 
fill the spaces between the two stems, and repeat. 
If the pears are to he cut they should be pared, 
evenly divided into halves, and cored. The fruit 
must be kept submerged in water after being 
pared or it will discolor quickly. Kight or ten 
large, perfect pieces, covered with syrup, will give 
a good pack. Pack pears, cover with a syrup 
of 20 to 30 degrees density, and process quarts for 
thirty minutes ; exhaust No. 3 cans three minutes 
and process for twenty-five minutes at 212° 
Fahrenheit in a water-bath. 

Plums. — The green-gage, yellow egg, and Lom- 
bard are the varieties of plums used for can- 
ning. Only sound, uniform fruit should be 
selected ; stem, wash, grade, prick with needle to 
prevent bursting, pack as firmly as possible with- 
out crushing, cover with a syrup of 40 degrees 
density, and process quarts for fifteini minutes; 
exhaust No. 2 cans two minutes and process ten 
minutes, counting the time after the water-bath 
begins boiling. Enamel-lined cans are necessary 
H when packing plums in tin. 

^ Olives. — The canned ripe olive has been used 

iSr"""* *" *^'^ country almost exclusively as a condiment. 



FKUiTS FOR CANNING 129 

owing partly to price and partly to the irregularity of the 
product. It has unusuatly higli nutritive value and a peculiar 
pleasing taste, two elements which commend it as a food, provided 
the consumer can depend upon getting these qualities. The meth- 
ods of paclcing arc in a more or less 
experimental stage, and improve- 
ment is constantly being made. 

The Jlissiou olive is preferred 
for canning, owing to the superior 
flavor and better texture. A recipe 
for handling olives is quoted under 
the chapter on "Pickling," p. 217. 

Fruit Macedoine. — A combina- 
tion of fruits makes an attractive 
pack in a 80- to 40-degreo syrup, 
and it is a convenient product to 
have on hand, since it is ready to 
serve either as a fruit cocktail, 
salad, or dessert. Some of these 
combinations may be more easily 
obtained in one section of the 
country than another. Any light- 
colored fruits will make a pleasant 
mixture: 

(a) Oreen-gagc plums, pears, 
and gooseberries. 

(b) Pineapples, kumquiits. figs. ,, 

(c) Peaches, pears, and cherries. '""'"■"""'■'" "yrup o""" nnni-. 

Very often fruits such as berries are not included in these com- 
binations, because tliey would discolor fruits of lighter color and 
would have the tendency to lose their form (Fig. 80). ' 

Golden dressing is a pleasing addition to this mixture when 
servM in any of the above-mentioned ways. 

Special Hydrometers. — In order to proceed with certainty, 
inBtrumcDts called hydrometers have been devised for accurately 
measuring the density of liquids. The one used for the special 
purpose of measuring the density of sugar solutions is known as 
a saeeharometer. There are three different kinds of sugar hy- 




130 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 




FRUITS FOR CANNING 



131 



drometers used ; namely, Balling, Brix, and Baume. The readings 
are the same on the Balling and Brix instruments. Both indi- 
cate the percentage of sugar present in a solution of water. If 
the Baume is used, a table showing the percentage of sugar corre- 
sponding to the degrees Brix is necessary for these recipes. This 
hydrometer is not suitable for use in preserving, since the read- 
ings should be converted into terms of either Brix or Balling. 
The Brix instruments may be secured with a range of zero to 30 
degrees or 30 to 60 degrees graduated in tenths of a degree, and 
the Balling with a range of zero to 70 degrees graduated in 
halves of degrees (Fig. 81). Tliis latter instrument is the one 
shown in the illustration. Its range prevents the necessity of 




Ficj. 84. — Cleanbing rubber rings. 

buying two spindles, and it is accurate enough for ordinary use 
in canning and preserving. For testing fruit juices in jelly 
making, an instrument with scale ranging from zero to 80 de- 
grees and graduated in tenths of degrees is used. The Balling 
scale shown in the illustration is inexpensive. 

Using the Instruments. — When placed in sufficient water to 
cover it, the spindle floats and the reading at the surface will be 
zero. If put in a heavier liquid than water, it will float, but at a 
different level. By adding solids, in the form of sugar, to water, 
the density increases and the spindle rises. In using a sac- 
charometer it is necessary to have a vessel of sufficient depth in 
which to float it to make the readings. This should be very nar- 
row so as not to require a large (ju^utity of syrup to measure ita 



133 



SUt'0K8SFUL CANNINU AUD I'KESEKVINU 



density. A 250-cubic centimetre glass cylinder or a brass sac- 
cliaromet«r cup is used (Fig. 82). 

Sometimes a tall, slender olive bottle will serve this purpose. 
The instruments are fragile and only accurate when used for 
testing: syrups at the temperature indicated on the spindle. These 
instruments will lose their accuracy if too frequently dipped into 
very hot solutions. The spindles may be secured mercury 
weighted or weighted with shot. 

Amount of sugar used for syrup of different degrees, using a 
gallon of water as a basis to which the sugar is added : 

SUUAK SyKIIP '1'Allt.E. 



D«I»ily. 


Quid tit) 


oI.aK.r 




tes 






Wiler 


Billiut 


r»..na< 


0>.uro, 




5 




' 


Per I Kulluii water. 


10 




14 S 


I'or 1 ifullon water. 


15 




7,5 


l>cr 1 gallon wiiter. 


20 


1 


14.75 


Per 1 gulloD wiiter. 


25 


2 




Per 1 Ballon wiitcT. 


.W 


3 


ii 


Pit 1 gallon water. 


35 


■I 




Per 1 gallon water. 


10 


5 


S.75 


Pi;r 1 gulluii water. 


45 





13 


Per 1 giillon water. 


50 


K 




Per I Rullon water. 


55 


10 


4 " 


Per 1 Kallon water. 


60 


12 


f( 


Per 1 gallon wot«r. 



II ■ hydruTDC 



bl-dr.>ni 



t/LKSTIONS 

1. Why are glasii or ciiuiiK-l-lincd faiin ncccHsury fur i-aniiini; berries! 

2. Deicribe how ti) i>Hck iH-rrieit that tlie bi'»t rcHults niav be olitained. 

3. Of what BhouKI tlu' ityrufi be nisile whii'li in to be xncd in tlie canning of 

4. Why may grevn KouiicU'rTiea be safely eaniictl witliout |>roc.'eB8iii};! 

5. Deueribe in detail the '' lye metliod " of peeling peaches. IVliat are the 

advanta«c« in utiin|r this method! When ia it unwise to use itT 



HlltLiOGltAPHY 



See Chapter X, iia^e '47 



CHAPTER X 

VEGETABLES FOR CANNING 

Brine used for packing most of the vegetables is made of 
two and one-half ounces of salt to one gallon of water, except for 
asparagus, for which a heavier brine is used which contains four 
ounces of salt to one gallon of water. 

Seasoning. — A seasoning mixed in the proportion of one part 
of salt and two parts of sugar is used in some canned vegetables. 
Two level teaspoonfuls of this mixture should be added to each 
quart jar or No. 3 can of tomatoes, and one teaspoonful added 
to each No. 2 can. This mixture is also used for, peas, lima beans, 
and corn. The flavor of these products is much superior to those 
canned without sugar and salt seasoning. 

Asparagus. — Select only young, tender asparagus for can- 
ning. It should be packed immediately to preserve it at its best. 
The stalks should be graded as to size and washed carefully to 
prevent any staining . from the soil. The stalks are tied into 
bundles and blanched from three to four minutes. On account 
of the tips being more tender than the stalks, place the lower 
ends in the blanch first, allow them to stand for two or three 
minutes, and then emerge the entire bundle for one or two 
minutes longer, tlien plunge into cold water. The asparagus is 
again carefully graded into white and green lots and packed 
carefully, having the tips up. Fill the cans or jars with brine 
(four ounces of salt to one gallon of water) and process inter- 
mittently for one liour on each of throe successive davs in a hot- 
water bath : or in a steam canner for thirty minutes at a 
temperature of 240° Fahrenheit, under ten-pound steam pressure. 
Asparagus whieli has been allowed to stand over night has lost 
much in color and flavor ; it should be canned immediately after 
cutting. 

Artichokes. — A very small amount of this vegetable is packed 
in this country. The domestic artichokes have a thicker ** biscuit" 
on the base of the leaves than the imported. 

133 



134 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

Select burr heads uniform io size, remove the lar^r outer 
leaves and tie the others together, then blanch for five minutes, 
pack into jars and cover with brine (two and one-half ounces of 
salt to one gallon of water) . Process pint jars and No. 2 cans 
in boiling-water bath for one hour. Sometimes just the hearts, or 
"biscuits" as they are often called, are packed. The base of the 
flower should be one to one and one,-half inches in diameter and 
half an inch thick when the leaves are removed. The vegetable 
is blanched and dipped into a cold bath before being trimmed. 
They are then packed into the jars and covered with brine and 
processed in the same manner as the whole heads. 

This vegetable is considered a delicacy. It is used almost ex- 
clusively in the hotel trade. One difficulty in packing this vege- 
table is that it turns dark while packing and becomes unattrac- 
tive in appearance, though the flavor may be unchanged. 

String Beans. — The green "Refugee" and "Stringlesa Green 
Pod" are good varieties for canning. Beans should be picked 
while still young and tender and should be canned very fresh. 
When the beans within the pods have grown to any size canning 
is more difficult and the finished product is poor. The beans 
should be graded according to thickness, and only small, tender 
beans should be used for canning. String the beans and cut 
them into two-inch lengths: cutting diagonally, or "on the bias," 
gives an attractive product. Blanch for three to five minutes in 
a soda bath (one teaspoonful of soda to one gallon of water), 
plunge into a cold salt bath (one tflblespoonful of salt to one quart 
of water) for twenty to thirty seconds. This treatment will assist 
in preserving the green color, and the finished product will be 
more attractive. Drain well and pack quickly. The beans may 
be packed in log-cabin fashion in square jars. If the beans 
are to be packed whole, they should be cut into even lengths, 
packed in the jars, covered with brine {two and one-half ounces 
of salt to one gallon of water) , and processed in the hot-water bath 
intermittently; or they may be treated in a steam cauner for 
forty-five minutes at a temperature of 240° Fahrenheit, under 
ten pounds steam pressure, which will be sufBcient to sterilize 
beana in quart jars and No. 2 cans. 



VEGETABLES FOR CANNING 135 

Wax Beans. — The wax beans are handled in the same way as 
the string beans. Sometimes the seasoning of sugar and salt is 
added to this product when packing. Exhaust No. 2 cans three 
minutes and process intermittently. 

Lima Beans. — There are two varieties of lima beans — the 
vine or pole variety and the bush variety. The first named is 
used for drying and the last for canning green. This vegetable 
should be gathered when the beans are in prime condition and 
sorted carefully. The very large beans, that look starchy and 
have the appearance of soaked beans, are often canned for succo- 
tash in the section of the country where corn and beans mature 
at the same time. After blanching the beans, fill the cans, add 
brine (two and one-half ounces of salt to one gallon of water), 
exhaust and process in the same manner as for string beans. 

Baby Beets. — Beets used for canning should be of uniform 
deep-red color throughout. The best variety of beets for canning 
is the **Detroit. '' From a standpoint of quality, only young, 
tender beets should be canned. Sort, putting uniform sizes to- 
gether, steam for about twenty minutes, or boil until three- 
fourths cooked, to loosen the skins. Do not allow cold water to 
touch the beets after they have been cooked, as it sometimes 
causes them to lose color. Peel and pack whole those beets which 
average one inch in diameter; those above two inches are cut 
into slices. Cover the beets in the cans with clear, hot water. 
The flavor of the finished product is better if no seasoning is 
added during the canning. Process quart jars one to two hours, 
exhaust No. 2 cans for three minutes and process same as for 
quarts, or in a steam canner for 30 minutes at a temperature 
of 228° Fahrenheit. 

Beets should never be packed in tin unless the cans are enamel 
lined. About thirty baby beets to each No. 2 can is considered a 
good pack ; by weight sixteen ounces of beets and four ounces of 
liquor give a standard pack (Fig. 85). 

Carrots. — Carrots used for canning should be young and 
tender and not more than one and one-half inches in diameter. 
They are washed, scraped carefully, steamed or boiled until three- 



136 SUCCERSFUI. CANNING AND I*IIERERVIN(! 



mm MM 


IV ^M 


H 


^H 




^^^^^^^^IHH 


fMH 


HJ 


ijfr^MIHHHfll 


IlT- 


'^H 


"l™ 


.«ri[ 





vegktablp:s for canning 137 

fourths cooked, and cut into lengths of the can, sliced or diced. 
Fill the jars or cans and cover with brine (two and one-half 
ounces of salt to one gallon of water) and process for one hour. 

An attractive pack of carrots in glass may be made by plac- 
ing the circles in layers, fitting the second layer into the space 
left by the first layer and repeating until the jar is filled. The 
center should be filled in as each outside layer is placed against 
the glass. 

Corn. — In tluj canning of corn nnich depends upon the careful 
selection of tender, juicy corn before it reaches the starchy stage. 
If allowed to grow beyond tlir point of greatest succulence it be- 
comes tough and dr^. Tlie sweet white variety is preferable for 
canning. The Western yellow corn is less succulent. Corn grows 
stale very quickly and loses its flavor, therefore it should never be 
allowed to stand longer than a few minutes after being snapped 
from the stalks before canning. Blanch on the cobs from one to 
three minutes. There are different procedures followed in cutting 
the kernels from the cob; the kernels mav be cut verv close to 
the cob and no scraping done; this will give a canned corn with 
nearly whole s(*parate kernels in the brine. By another method 
the cutting may be done in such a manner that the outer end of 
the grain is cut off first, and then the lower part of the kernel 
is removed by a second cutting; this cutting will give a creamy 
consistency to the finished ]>roduct. Another style of cutting the 
corn from the cob is to slit the end of the kernels and squeeze 
out the contents ; this will give a hull-less product similar to the 
commercial **Kornlet.'^ After removing the corn from the cob 
it may be packed into the jars or cans cold to within one inch of 
the top; add one and one-half teaspoonfuls of the salt-and-sugar 
mixture to each jar or can and cover with clear water; paddle 
to allow the li(iuid to i)ermeate to the bottom of the containers. 
Exhaust No. 2 tin cans for ten minutes, process intermittently, 
cooling immediately after each processing by plunging the cans 
into cold water. If canning in glass, process cpiart jars inter- 
mittently, raising the clamp during each processing; for corn 
expands in cooking and the jars may be broken unless the lids are 
loosened during each processing. 



138 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

A product of more uniform consistency can be obtained by 
heating the corn with the seasoning (sugar, salt, and a little 
water) before packing it into the cans. This wiU cause the ex- 
pansion of the kernels before packing, and the result will be a 
fuller pack and shorten the time of the exhaiist to five minutes 
instead of ten minutes, if the corn is packed hot into hot cans. 
It may seem that the heating of the pulp complicates or lengthens 
the process, but the time saved in exhausting and the condition 
of the finished product make it worth while. 

Take every precaution to have good rubbers, and keep the 
process at boiling-point for the entire time. The steps in the can- 
ning of com should follow in rapid succession, allowing one hour 
from the time the corn is gathered until it is sealed in the can 
ready for the process. If processed or sterilized in a steam retort, 
eighty minutes under a fifteen-pound pressure will be suf- 
ficient for heavy corn; or, if a water-bath is used, canned corn 
should be processed intermittently for one hour on eagh of three 
successive days. 

Lye Hominy. — Vse the sweet flat com. Most early varieties 
of sweet com, of which "Stowell's Evergreen" is an example, 
have the flat kernels. To obtain best results in preparing lye 
hominy, dissolve two ounces of coneentratod lye in one gallon of 
boiling water ; drop the corn into this solution and boil rapidly for 
twenty-five to thirty minutes. Drain and drop into cold water. If 
possible, allow cold water to run over it for three or four hours 
to remove all traces of the lye. After this, place in a barrel churn 
and turn the chum for flve to ten minutes to remove the hulls 
and black eyes. After removing the hulls, place the corn in an 
enamelled kettle, cover with clear boiling water, and cook until 
tender, AVash again and remove any hulls or eyes which you 
failed to take off in the elinrn. Enamel-lined cans or gla-ss should 
be used for packing hominy. Fill the cans to within one-half 
inch of the top and cover with brine (two and one-half ounces 
of salt to one gallon of water). Cap and exhaust for ten min- 
utes. Process in No. 2 cans intermittently in a hot-water bath, 
or in a steam canner for fifty minutes under a fifteen-pound 
steam pressure. This product is more easily sterilized in No. 2 



VEGETABLES FOR CANNING 139 

cans. It is very important that all trace of the lye be removed 
before packing the hominy into the cans. 

Okra. — Select young, tender pods, removing the stem end 
without cutting into the seed sections, blanch in the soda bath (as 
for beans), i)lunge into the cold salt bath, drain, pack into jars, 
cover with brine, and process the same as for beans. This 
product is used almost exclusively in Southern cookery and is not 
generally known in the North. If the okra is to be packed for 
soups, it may be sliced after blanching, as it is hard to cut after 
canning. If a steam canner is used, process for thirty minutes 
under a ten-pound steam pressure (Fig. 85). 

Peas. — Peas are more difficult to can than most other vege- 
tables, and special care should be taken in handling them. Use 
only fresh, young peas. They should be gathered in the early 
morning and canned as soon as possible. Work should be done 
rapidly, and the peas should not stand after being shelled. Shell 
and sort, j^itting peas of the same size and grade of maturity to- 
gether. Be sure not to use hard, ripe peas among the tender 
ones. The peas are blanched according to their age and size until 
well done: this prevents a cloudy liquor and makes the peas 
tender, also removing some of the gluey substance which some- 
times coats the peas. The very young, tender peas need scarcely 
more than one to two minutes' blanch, while the very old ones 
may need twenty minutes'. The time should be sufficient to make 
the peas tender, otherwise they will remain hard in the processing. 
The peas are blanched in the soda bath and dipped into the 
cold salt water for twenty to thirty seconds after blanching, the 
same as for beans. Pack the pe^as to within one-half inch of the 
Top of the jars or cans. If the cans are too full, some of the peas 
may burst during the processing and make the liquor cloudy. Put 
one and one-half level teaspoonfuls of the salt-and-sugar mixture 
in each Xo. 2 can. Cover the peas with water, exhaust No. 2 cans 
three minutes, and process in hot-water bath intermittently one 
hour on each of three successive days. If the peas are very small 
and tender, forty-five minutes to each processing will be sufficient. 
Cool the tins quickly after each processing. This may be done by 
plunging the cans into cold water. Process quart jars one hour 



Hi) SUCCESSFUL CASNINO AND PRESERVING 

on each of three successive days. Xo. 2 pans of peas may be 
sterilized in a steam retort for forty-five minutes under a ten- 
pound steam pressure. 

Pimientos. — The peppers should be picked in the early morn- 
ing and Iiandled carefully to prevent bruising. This ean be done 
by placing them in slialluw trays, from whicli they can be easily 
Bortetl. The medium-sized, uniformly sound peppers should be 
canned whole. The irregular, broken ones may be cut into 
strips and canned or used in relishes, sauces, or sonp mixtures. 

Select sound, uniform pimientos of medium size. To remove 
seeds, cut around the stem of each with a slender paring knife and 
remove the inside partitions. To peel, place the poppers in a hot 
oven from six to ten minutes fnntil the skin blisters and cracks), 
being careful not to allow them to burn. Then remove the skin 
with a slender paring knife. Flatten the peppi'rs and pack in 
horizontal layers. Xo liquid is used iu canning pimientos. The 
processing brings out of the pimientos a thick liquor, which almost 
covers them in the ean or jar. Cap and exhaust \o. 1 cans for 
two minutes and Xo. 2 cans for three minutes. Tip and process 
in hot water at boiling temperature (212° Fahrenheit), the Xo. 1 
cans for twenty minntes, th<; X'o. 2 cans for thirty-five minutes. 
When canning in glass the pint jars should be well filled, then 
capped and processed for twenty-five minntes at 212° Fahrenheit 
(Fig. 86). 

Chile Peppers. — The long, sweet green (!hile peppers are 
picked and canned when full grown. Unlike the pimientos, the 
Chile peppers are canned before any tint of red appears. The 
pods may be dropped into hot oil to loosen the skins from the 
fleshy part. As soon as they are cool remove the skin, stem, and 
press out the seeds, leaving the Chile as nearly whole as possible, 
roll the Chile peppers and pack into cans, cover with brine, using 
one ounee of salt to one gallon of water, process the same as for 
pimientos (Fig. 87). 

Pumpkins. — The hest pumpkins for eanning are tliose which 
color and ripen evenly. Wash the pumpkin, cut into slices, and 
steam until tender. Remove the pulp from the shell and beat it 
thoroughly in a pan over boiling water. A double boiler is a 



VEOETABLBS FOR CANNING 



1-11 



coavenient utensil to use for this purpose. Spices may be added 
to the pumpkio if desired, and the flavor obtained by cooking the 
spiees in at the timo of eaniiing is better than making the addition 
at the time of using. The following proportion of ground spices 
is generally used ; For each quart of steamed strained pumpkin 




add one-liiilf t-upFiil of brown sugar, two tiaspoonfuls of cinna- 
mon, one teaspnonfid of salt, and oiu' leaspoonfnl of ginger. Stir 
the pulp until of a smooth, even consisteney, pack into cans or 
,iars while hot, and process in a water-bath intermittently one 
hour on each of three 8ueecs.sive days or process in a steam- 



143 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



pressure outfit for sixty-five minutes uuder ten pounds pressure. 
Rhubarb. — Select rhubarb which has matured quickly. Trim 
off the upper and lower ends, wash and cut into even lengths. 
It may be packed in long strips in glass or it may be cut into 
inch lengths. Pill the jars as tightly as possible without crushing 
the pieces, and add water or syrup. As sugar is necessary when 
using the rhubarb, it is better that it be added at the time of can- 



\ 

i 


i 


i 




1 



ning. If .^yrup is desired, use one-lialf cupful of sugar to one 
quart of wafer. Rhubarb when packed m tin must be put into 
enamel-lined cans. It is usually preferred when canned in glass. 
Process No. 2 cans and quart jars in hot-water bath for fifteen 
minutes at 212° Fahrenheit. 

SpinacK — Prepare the spinach by picking off all the dead 
leaves and catting off the roots. Cover one peck of spinach for 
two minutes with scalding water in which you have dissolved one 



VEGETABLES FOR CANNING 143 

teaspoonful of soda to a gallon of water. Wash thoroughly, 
using a large tub of water so dirt can sink to the bottom ; drain 
and boil rapidly in boiling water four to six minutes. Drain well 
and pack into sterilized jars or cans, cover with boiling salt 
water, using one tablespoonf ul salt to one quart of water. Process 
in a water-bath for one hour at 212° Fahrenheit, or in a steam 
canner for 35 minutes under ten pounds pressure. 

Other Greens. — Young, tender beet tops, Swiss chard, and 
dandelions may be canned by the method outlined for spinach. 

Squash. — Squash is canned by the same method as pumpkin, 
omitting the spices. 

Sweet Potato. — Sweet potatoes should be canned as soon as 
possible after digging. A potato which is dry and mealy when 
canned is desired for market. The Nancy Hall is one of the 
best varieties for canning. The Triumph and Southern Queen 
are also used. When the potatoes are allowed to stand before can- 
ning they bruise easily and start to decay at the points where the 
rootlets emerge. Select absolutely sound potatoes, sort, putting 
together those of the same size — those under one and one-half 
inches in diameter in one lot and those above one and one-half 
inches in diameter in another — boil or steam until the potatoes are 
about half cooked, when the skin will slip off easily. Peel as soon 
as the potatoes are cool enough to handle, and pack hot into cans 
or jars as quickly as possible to prevent discoloring. For a 
fancy pack the potatoes are placed in layers, but a standard pack 
can be made by mashing the potatoes, heating thoroughly, and 
packing the potatoes hot. All space in the can should be filled 
with potato, as the presence of air will cause discoloration. Ex- 
haust Xo. 3 cans for ten to fifteen minutes. The exhaust should 
be very hot, as the sweet potato is a poor conductor of heat, and 
the heat penetrates through the sweet potato to the center of the 
can very slowly. Process for four hours straight in boiling water 
or seventy minutes under fifteen pounds steam pressure. 

Tomatoes. — The fruit should be gathered in shallow trays 
and the picking done in the shortest posible time. The tomato is 
a delicate fruit, and if it is allowed to stand several days before 
canning, or if it is picked before being ripe and allowed to stand, 



144 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PHKSERVINU 



it docs uot develop ita eliaracteristic Havor. Sort and grade the 
fruit. Wash, putting into trays or squarc-s of cheesecloth, and 
lowering into boiling water for one minute. Keniove at once to 
prevent cooking. Plunge into cold water to make the fruit 
firmer. Peel promptly. Cut out the core with a slender-pointed 
knife, being earefiil not to cut into the seed-cells. Pack only 
red, ripe, sound tomatoes, whole or in large pieces. Add two 
teaspoonfiila of the siigar-and-salt mixture to each No. 3 can or 
quart jar, and one and one-half teaspooufuls in each No. 2 can ; 




exhaust for three iiiinute.s and process Xo. 2 cans for twenty 
minutes and Xo, 3 cans and quart jars for Iwenty-five minutes. 

In canning tomatoes in tin no addition uf tomato juice iu 
excess of the amount pre.sciit in the tomatoes canned should be 
allowed if the prodiict is to be put on the market. Any water 
or extra tomato juice is considered an adulteration. When it is 
desired to keep tomatoes whole for exhibits or home use, they may 



VEGETABLES FOR CANNING 145 

be packed carefully in glass. A thick tomato sauce poured over 
them will aid in keeping the tomatoes whole, plump, and of a 
better color than is possible when they are packed in a thin 
liquor. From an economical standpoint, a jar of tomatoes packed 
in sauce is a fine product ; the sauce may be used for soups and 
whole tomatoes for salads (Fig. 88). 

Tomato Puree. — Small, irregular, and undersized tomatoes 
can be made into puree or soup. For this purpose they should 
be cooked and strained at the time they are canned rather than 
canned fresh. Tlie tomatoes are washed, graded, and cooked 
until tender, then run through the colander and put over the 
fire again. The mixture is then concentrated to from one- 
half to one-third of the original volume. This concentrated to- 
mato sauce may be canned and processed by the method outlined 
for tomatoes. The concentrated mixture, of course, requires 
fewer cans and jars, as the amount of water canned is reduced, 
and, with cans costing as they do, this is an important con- 
sideration. 

Soup Mixture. — A good combination to use for this mixture 
is one quart of thick tomato pulp, two cupfuls of corn or tiny lima 
beans, and two cupfuls of okra, with seasoning of salt, sugar, pep- 
per, and sliced onion (Fig. 89). Cook this mixture together for 
ten minutes, pack in \o. 2 cans or glass jars, exhaust for five min- 
utes, and process for two hours, or in a steam canner for thirty- 
five minutes under five pounds pressure. 

Turnips. — Canned turnips are not generally used. Sometimes 
they are packed commercially for hotel use. Only small, tender 
turnips should be canned. Wash, scrape, blanch for five to eight 
minutes, pack into cans, cover with hot brine (two and one-half 
ounces of salt to one gallon of water) and process for two hours, 
or intermittently one hour on each of three successive days. 

Creole Sauce. — Two cupfuls of corn, three tablespoon fuls of 
chopped onion, one tablespoonful of celery seed (crushed), three 
tablespoon fuls of butter, one cupful of sliced okra, one bay leaf, 
one clove of garlic (chopped), one quart of tomato juice and 
pulp, one cupful of chopped sweet red pepper, one cupful of 
chopped sweet green pepper. Salt and pepper to taste. Strain 
10 



146 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 




Fio. 89 — Vfgetablei p«cked (redi (or 



VEGETABLES FOR CANNING 147 

tlie seeds and skins out of the cooked tomatoes, keeping all pulp 
possible. Cook chopped onion in butter until yellow. Add the 
prepared vegetables and seasoning. Simmer until the corn is 
tender. Pack hot in twelve-ounce or pint jars or No. 2 cans. 
Process in the glass jars for twenty minutes. Exhaust No. 2 
cans for five minutes and process for fifteen minutes. 

Mushrooms. — Directions for canning mushrooms may be ob- 
tained from the bulletin ''Preserving Wild Mushrooms** (see 
Bibliography). 

QUESTIONS 

1. state a general outline to be followed in tlie selection, preparation, and 

canning of most vegetables, if any step should be omitted for special 
vegetables, note the step, naming the vegetables for which it should 
be omitted ; if there should be any steps added for special vegetables, 
describe them, naming the vegetables for which they are necessary. 

2. What is the usual strength of brine used with vegetables? 

3. What is the proportion of sugar and salt in the sugar-and-salt mixture? 

4. For what vegetables should a tin can not be used unless it is enamel 

lined? Why is this true? 

HIBLIOCJHAPHY 

CHAPTERS IX AND X 

1. Hai^sner, a., "The Manufacture of Preserved Foods and Sweetmeats," 

1912. Published by Scott, (Jreenwood & Son, London. $3. 

2. Peknot, K. F.. " Preserving Wild Mushrooms," Experiment Station Bul- 

letin Xo. 98, Oregon Agricultural Colloge, January, 1908. Published 
by the Oregon Agricultural College, Corvallis, Ore. 

3. Rose, Flora, " The Preservation of Food in the Home," 1912, parts 1, 

2, and 3, Cornell Reading Courses. Published by the New York State 
College of Agriculture, Cornell l^niversity, Ithaca, N. Y. 

4. The Canning Trade. ''A Complete Course in Canning," 1911. Published 

by the MacXeal Printing Company, Baltimore. Md. $5. 

5. YoiJNO, Ermentine, '* Canning and Preserving Fruit and Vegetables and 

Preparing Fruit Pastes and Syrups," 1892. Published by the Rural 
Publishing Company, New York City, X. Y. , 



CMAl'TEK XI 

PRESERVES 

A PBESKKVED FKuiT IS 0116 whicii hHs liceii cooketl ill cane-HU^r 
syrup iiiitiL it is clear, tender, and transparent. It should keep 
its form and plumpness and be crisp rather than tough or soft. 
When finished, the cells of the fruit should be filled with the fla- 
vored syrup in place of the fruit juice.- 

In ^neral, all the principles thus far discussed in canning arc 
to be applied also in preserving. The special problem in preserv- 
ing is to be able to introduce the syrup gradually enough to make 
it possible for the syrups to permeate the fruit thoroughly with- 
out sbriiiking and toughening it. When fmit is dropped at once 
into hot syrup that is too dense, the juice of the fmit will be 
drawn out so rapidly by this heavy liquid as to shrink the fruit. 
Then the outside surface becomes so coate<l with thick syrup that 
little can enter the fruit. In order to prevent this toughening and 
shrinking, it is necessary to start the cooking of the fruit in a 
thin syrnp. Most preserves should be begun in a syrnp testing 
about 30 to 40 degrees Brix or Balling and gradually have the 
syrup thicken by boiling with the fruit in it (Frontispiece). 

Cooking Preserves, — Preserves should be cooked over a very 
hot fire as rapidly as possible to have the finished product spark- 
ling bright, clear, and of a good color. If slowly cooked, the result 
will be a dnll, dark, unattractive product. The fruit, while cook- 
ing, should be well covered with the syrup so that no top pieces 
will dry on the surface and shrivel before a sufficient amount of 
syrup has entered the pieces to plump thein. Sometimes the 
syrnp becomes too thick before the fmit is sufficiently clear and 
tender, as may happen when a small quantity of fruit is cooked 
in a large pan. In this case the water in the syrup evaporates 
more quickly on account of the broad surface exposed, and the 
syrup should be thinned by adding a small amount of water or a 
quantity of thinner syrup. Beginning the process of preserving 
fruit in a thin syrup, cooking rapidly until pieces arc clear and 
148 



PRESKRVES 



149 



allowing the fruit to stand itumei'sed in the syrup over night will 
cause more of the syrup to permeate the fruit and plump it. If 
this process be carried on gradually enough, the fruit may be com- 
pletely saturated with syrup (as in thp case of crystallized 




products) without shrinking. The finished product should keep 
its original form, lie plump, mellow, and clear. 

For preserving such fniits as chayotes, pears, and watermelon 
rind (Fig. 90) a syrup not heavier than 30 degrees Balling (p. 



150 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



129) should be used to begin the cooking. Juicy fruits like berries 
may be put at the beginning into a heavier syrup, about 40 to 45 
degrees Balling, because the abundant juices of 
tile fruit quickly reduce the density of the syrup 
before shrinking can take place. Finished pre- 
serves are packed in a syrup ranging in density 
from 50 to 60 degrees Balling. When acid fruits 
are added to the syrup some of the sugar is in- 
verted or changed to a form which will not readily 
crystallize, and for this reason the syrup may be 
made heavier without danger of crystallization. 
Hincc long cooking injures the color and Savor 
of fruits, it is desirable to cook delicate fruits, 
such as berries, for as short a time as possible. 

Cooling Preserves. — Cooling rapidly after 
cooking gives preserves a better color and flavor 
than can be secured when they are packed hot. 
Standing immersed in the syrup after cooking 
helps to plump tile fruit. Shallow enamelled 
trays or pans arc desirable for cooling. Running 
cold water underneath the pans will help to cool 
them more rapidly (Fig. 92). Tin utensils should 
not be used, because the fruit juices will discolor 
in it. 

Packing. — Pack preserves cold. Bring the 
syrup in which they have been standing to boil- 
ing, strain, test, and, if proper density, pour over 
the packed preserves, paddling the packed jars to 
remove all air bubbles. If not of the right weight 
for packing, the syrup must be concentrated to 
the proper density by boiling it. A well-packed 
jar of preserves will contain fruits or pieces of 
Fia ei,— Aihem- fj-jiit of Uniform size appropriate for fllling the 
Cediigrmde. space within the jar. These pieces should be 

arranged in rows or layers in such a way as to give the entire 
pack a symmetrical or well-balaneed appearance. A little more 



PRESERVES 



151 



time and care is required to pack in this way, but the space is 
economized and the quality of the finisliod product is euhaneed 
(Fig. 93). 

Sealing Preserves. — To sfaL properly and to insure safety 
from mold, it is neeessarj'- to process all prescrws after packing 
them into the sterilized jars This processing may be done in a 
water-bath by heat below or it the boiling temperature, depend- 
ing upon the kind of jiroducts packed and upon the length of 
time the heat is applitd Since prcsir\ts cont.iin so much sugar, 
which acts as a pn servative, it is onh Ilecessar^ to process 
against molds. Ibis ma\ he accomplished b\ plating the filled 
jars in a water bath heating it to a ttinpciaturt of 180" to 190° 




Fahrenheit, and boldiuf; that temperature for about thirty 
minutes. This method preserves a better fextiiri' and flavor in 
the fruit, than can be retained when processing is done at a 
higher temperature. 

Process preserves or jams in twelve-ounee or pint jars for 
twenty minutes at 180^ Fahrenheit (temperature of simmering 
water). When jars with glass tops and screw caps or wire 
clamps (lightning si-al) are used, leave the pn-ssure of the clamp 
on the top of cap until the jars are entindy cold. 

Special Equipment, — Success depends more upon the perfect 
freshness of the fruit than any other feature. "From the patch 
with dispatch," is a pood slogan. 



152 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



Uniform results may be obtained more easily if some Hpecial 
equipment, such as good enamel or aluminum vessels, scales, 
measuring cups, wooden spoons, paddles, tbermometers, and 
saccharometers, is secured. A thermometer which gives readings 
by degrees Fahrenheit for each degree from zero to 250° is use- 
ful in detennining the finishing point in preserves (Pig. 91} : 
1051/2° to 1061/2° Centigrade, or 222° to 224° Fahrenheit is 
recommended as the finishing point for most fruits. The syrup 




prwerred figii, W«lton Counly, FloriiU. 



will not reach 224^ Fahi-euheit until a sufficient amount of water 
has been driven off by tlie boiling. The temperature t«st is per- 
haps the wiinplcst test for the finished preserving synip. All of 
the different batches of prest-rves should be cooked en.mgh and 
be of uniform consistency. Some sour fruits, such as clierries and 
currants, when preserved are cooked to a higher temperature 
because of the acid pnsent. 106° to 108° Centigrade or 224° 
to 226° Fahrenheit is a good finishing point for these products. 
The saccharometcr is a little more difficult than the ther- 
mometer to handle, since sufficient syrup must be taken from 



PRESERVES 



153 



the kettle, pourtd over the spindle into a cylinder or bottle deep 
enough to float it, and the reading taken, or the spindle may be 
floated in the kettle if it is deep enough. 

Proportion of Sugar. — Usually three-fourths pound of sugar 
for each pound of fruit is allowed for preserves. Firm fruits 




Ftu. 64 —Only 



like c|uiiKi's, melon rinds, hard pears, and erali apjflt's arc better 
if cookod ill boiling wattT until tender before adding them to 
the synip. 

The nsi- nf preserves in the <laify menu should l>e limited, since 
they are so much richer than fresh and plain canned fruits. 
StraH'l>crries, plums, sour cherries, (juinees, and melon rind are 
more palatable when preserved than when canned. 

Berries. — Oidy freshly picked berries should lie preserved 
(Fig. M). Practically the same methods are to be followed in the 



154 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

preserving of ail berries. Berries should be gathered in shallow 
trays or baskets, and not in deep vessels which allow them to be 
bruised and crushed. They should be uniform, ripe, and sound ; 
only large, firm berries should be selected for preserving. All 
berries should be carefully sorted and lightly washed by placing 
in colander and pouring water over them rather than putting 
them into a pan of water. 

The following proportion is recommended: two pounds of 
whole berries — two and one-half pounds of sugar — one pint of 
berry juice. 

If the best possible color and flavor is to be secured for the 
finished product, the syrup for preserved berries should be made 
of berry juice, obtained by crushing, beating and straining the 
softer broken berries. Boil tt^ther the berry juice and the 
sugar and skim and cook the syrup before dropping the berries 
into it, to prevent shrivelling and toughening the fruit. Return 
to the fire and bring slowly to a boil in a covered pan. Hemove 
the cover and cook until the fruit looks clear, being very care- 
ful not to overcook ; the berries should remain whole. If a 
thermometer is used the cooking may be finished at 222° to 224° 
Fahrenheit. Skin and cool in a covered pan. If berry preserves 
are covered for five minutes before removing from the fire and 
the vessel left covered while cooling the product will be more 
plump. The fruit will be better if allowed to cool in shallow 
trays or pans and stand in the syrup over night ; it improves the 
shape and flavor, as the berries absorb more of the syrup, be- 
come heavier, and pack better. Lift the berries out of the syrup 
carefully and pack cold, filling the sterilized jars with berries be- 
fore pouring the syrup over them. A good pack requires more 
berries than syrup. Cap, process pint jars for ten minutes at 
180° Fahrenheit, seal, and store in a dark dry place. 

Packing syrup for berries should have a density of 50 to 55 
degrees Balling (see p. 129). 

Strawberry Preserves. — 

2 pounds of berries y, cup ot berry juice 

ly, pounds of Bii)nr 



PRESERVES 155 

Wash, cap, and stem the strawberries. Make a syrup of the 
sugar and juice and add the berries. Cook to 222° Fahrenheit 
or 105 V^° Centigrade, or until the syrup is very thick. Cook 
(quickly, pack into sterilized jars, and seal as for preserves. More 
of the natural flavor is retained by using this method, and no 
syrup will be left over, which means a saving in sugar, but the 
yield is not so great and the fruit does not remain whole and 
plump as in the first method given above. 

Currant and Cherry Preserves. — White currants and cherries 
may be preserved by following the same directions given for 
strawberry preserves, except that in using a thermometer to de- 
termine the finishing point for cherry preserves the temperature 
should be run up to 226° Fahrenheit or 107° Centigrade. A 
heavier packing syrup is more necessary for sour cherries than 
for the sweet ones. 

Sun-cooked Preserves. — Cherries, currants, raspberries or 
strawberries alone, or a combination of two-thirds currants and 
one-third raspberries, may be cooked by this method. Dampness 
is a great foe to successful sun cookery. The berries should be 
w^ashed, capped, stemmed, drained, and measured. Allow an 
equal weight of sugar for fruit. For each two pounds of berries 
measure one-fourth cupful of berry juice and heat with the 
sugar. Cook and pour over the whole berries in shallow trays. 
Stand in the sun for three or four days, bringing indoors each 
night. Allow the fruit to remain in the sun until it is well 
plumped and the syrup has thickened almost to a jelly. If the 
sun fails to shine, keep the preserves in a cool oven. 

Sour Orange Preserves. — The peel of the native sour orange, 
which is found in the southern part of the Gulf States, makes 
delightful i)reserves. Grate off evenly all yellow, cut the oranges 
into quarters, and peel. Soak the peel in salt water (one cup- 
ful of salt to one gallon of water) for two or three days, chang- 
ing the water twice daily. Cover with clear w^ater and boil for 
ten minutes, drain, and repeat the boiling twice to remove all 
bitterness. When the peel is tender drop it into a heavy syrup 
(two cupfuls of sugar to two cupfuls of sweet orange juice) for 
each two pounds of peel, and cook rapidly until clear and trans- 



156 BUCOESSFUI. CANNING AND rttKSERVING 

parent. Cool before packing, pack into sterilized jars, process 
pints for fifteen minutes at 180° Fahrenheit, seal, and store. 
Preserved Whole Kumquats. — 
l! ftouiids of wliule kumquata 2 poundi of su^r 

(afUT ouokitit,') 1 quart of «at*r 

Serub the kumquats with soap and warm water, scald them 
with boiling soda water, usin^; a cupful of .lotla to five (|uarts 
of water. Allow fruit to stand in the soda bath until cool, 
drain and slit each kunii|UHt with a sharp-pointed knife to pre- 
vent them from biirstinfr open while cooking. Drop into boiling 
water and cook for ten or fifteen minutes (until tender). After 
this the seeds can easily be removed. Boil the sutrar and water 
together for ten minutes, add the drained kumtiuats and cook 
until clear and transparent. The fruit will keep its sha{)e better 
if the cooking is done in a covered pan. Carefully place the 
fruit into trays, pour the synip over it and allow to remain over 
night to plump. Pack the kumquats into sterilized jars, strain 
and pour the syrup over them, pro('ess pint jars for fifteen 
minutes at 180° Fahrenheit, and seal tifiihtly while hot, 

Kumquat Preserves, — 
I pound of kimiqiiatit % pound of Hii^Hr 

1 pint of water 

The kumquat pulp, which remains in the filter after the juice 
has been drained off for jell;-, may be made into a preserve. The 
seeds should be removed when the fruit is fii-st prepared for the 
jelly. Pass the pulp through a food chopper, weigh, and allow 
three-fourths pound of sugar for each pound of pulp. Cook the 
water and pulp together for twenty minutes, add the sugar, and 
continue boiling rapidly until the mixture becomes bright and 
clear and of proper consistency. If Satsuma orange juice is 
used in place of water in these kumquat n'cipes an even more 
delightful flavor may be obtained in the finished product. 

Preserved Peaches. — 

1 peek of ppeled peai'lies SVi pounds of brown nuf^r 

3 pinta of cidor vinegar '/, oiiiipc of nutmeg 

] ouR« of flaws ] ounce of cinnamon 



PKESERVES 157 

Peel the peaches and put them into a stone jar. Break up 
spices, scald, and then strew them through the peaches. Boil 
sugar and vinegar together for ten minutes and pour over the 
peaches while very hot. Repeat this for three consecutive days, 
then boil all together for ten minutes, cool, pack, and process. 

Plums may be preserved by the same method as for peaches 
but adding one pint less of vinegar. 

Preserved Pears. — 

1 poiiiul of j)ear8 1 cupful of water 

'Yx pound of sugar 

Pears may be preserved whole, in halves, or (quarters. Seckel 
pears are often preserved whole. If Keifer pears are used, they 
should boil in clear water after being pared until they can be 
easily pierced with a darning-needle. Then place them in the 
syrup, cook, cool, plumi), pack, process, and seal the same as for 
all preserves. 

Ginger Pears. — Use hard or under-ripe pears, pare, core, and 
cut into very thin slices. To eight pounds of pears allow eight 
pounds of sugar, one cupful of water, juice of four lemons. Cut 
the lemon rinds into thin strips and add. Also add one-eighth 
pound of ginger root cut into pieces. Simmer until thick as 
marmalade. Pack like peach jam. 

Ginger Apples. — Hard varieties of apples are delicious when 
preserved by the method just outlined. 

Apple Preserves. — 

1 pound of apples 1 cupful of water 

1 pound of suj?ar \A, lemon sliced thinly 

Whole crab apples, packed with or without the stems, make 
an attractive preserve. Pare, allow the apples to remain whole, 
and follow same directions given for plain preserved peaches. 

After the apj)les have phimjied in the syrup over night it 
may be necessary to pour off the syrup and boil it for ten minutes, 
or until it is of the desired consistency. Strain the syrup and 
pour it over the apples, which have been carefully placed so that 
all stems will be uj)ward. Process and seal as for all preserves. 

Large, firm apples, if used for preserves, are perhaps better 



-i:,S SrCCKSSFTL CAXXlNii AND PRKSKRVINci 

if pared, cored, and ({uartercd before cooking in the syrup, 'i'lie 
parings and cores may be boiled for fifteen minutes in tlie water 
and strained out before the sugar is added to make the syrup. 
This will add color and some pectin to the preserving syrup. 
Pectin is the jelly-making substance found in some fruit juices. 

Golden Pumpkin Chips. — ^Remove the skin and seeds from a 
medium-sized pumpkin which has been cut into quarters; then 
slice the pieces across, cutting each piece about one-quarter 
inch thick. Prepare a syrup as for preserved apples, allowing 
three-quarter pound of sugar to each pound of pumpkin, and 
proceed by the directions given in that recipe. 

Preserved Watermelon Rind. — 

1 pound of melon rind 1 lemon 

1 pound of sugar 1 ounce of lime (CaO) 

2 quarts of water 

Cut the rind into one-inch squares, remove peel and all pink 
part, and weigh. Soak over night in lime water (one ounce of 
lime to two quarts of water). The lime (calcium oxide) may be 
secured from a drug store. The following morning allow the 
rind to stand for two hours in clear water. Drain well, then 
drop into boiling water and boil rapidly for ten minutes. Drain 
again and add gradually to the syrup (made by boiling together 
two cupfuls of sugar and one quart of water) . Add to this the 
juice of one-half lemon and throe extra slices of lemon. Cook 
imtil the melon is tender and transparent. Allow to stand cov- 
ered with the syrup until cold, arrange the pieces attractively in 
the jars, garnishing with slices of lemon. Cover with the syrup 
testing 50 to 55 degrees. Process and seal (see p. 129). 

Gingered Watermelon Rind. — 

1 pound of melon rind 1 ounce of ginger 

1V» pounds of sugar % lemon 

Follow the same method as for melon rind preserves until 
after the rind has been freshened in cold water. Then drain 
well and boil rapidly for fifteen minutes in strong ginger tea 
(one ounce of ginger to one quart of water). Finish cooking in 
a 30-degree syrup made by using two pints of the strained ginger 



PRESERVES 159 

tea with two pints of water and one and one-half pounds of 
sugar. Cook rapidly until tender and transparent (about one 
hour). After rind has boiled for one-half hour, add one-half 
lemon, cut into thin slices. Cook until rind is tender and trans- 
parent. Cool, pack, and process like preserves. 

Gingered watermelon rind, chopped finely, is excellent to com- 
bine with canned sweet red pimientos for making the Spanish 
chutney (see p. 206). 

Preserved Figs. — 

quarts of figs 1 cupful of bakiii<]f soda 

4 pounds of sugar quarts of boiling water 

3 quarts of water 

Select firm, sound fruit, discard all over-ripe or broken figs. 
Sprinkle one cupful of baking soda over the selected figs and 
cover with about six quarts of boiling water. Allow them to 
stand for fifteen minutes, drain oft this soda solution, and rinse 
the figs well in clear, cold water. Let the figs drain while syrup 
is being prepared. Mix sugar and the three quarts of water, 
boil for ten minutes, and skim. Add well-drained figs gradu- 
ally so as not to cool the syrup. Cook rapidly until figs are clear 
and tender (about two hours). When the figs are transparent, 
lift them out carefully and place in shallow pans. If the syrup 
is not heavy enough (testing about 50 to 55 degrees with a sac- 
charometer), continue boiling until it reaches the desired density, 
then pour it over the figs, being careful to see that the fruit is 
entirely covered. Let stand over night. Next morning pack the 
figs cold in sterilized jars, having stems all the same length and 
j)lacing the figs so that all stems will be upward. Fill each jar 
to overflowing with the syrup of 55 degrees density (p. 129). 
Cap, clamp, process, and senl immediately. 

Yellow Tomato Preserves. — 

4 pounds of fruit V^ ounce of ginger 

pounds of sugar V2 lemon 

2 quarts of water V2 ounce of cinnamon 

Boil together water, sugar, lemon, and spices for fifteen 
minutes, or until 217° Fahrenheit is reached; add fruit gradu- 



160 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

ally and cook gently until the fruit becomes bripht and clear, 
■tirring occasionally and being careful not to allow it to bum. 
If a thermometer is used, cook to 222° Fahrenheit, pour into 
trays, stand over nipht, pack the tomatoes cold, and strain the 
syrup over theni. Process as for other preserves. 

Small green or red tomatoes may be preserved whole by this 
same method. 

Pineapple Preserves. — 

1 pound of fruit \ pound of sugar 

Peel, core, and slice the Emit, place alternate layers of sugar 
and fruit in a bowl and allow to stand over night. Next morn- 
ing drain off the syrup and boil it for ten minutes, add the fruit 
and continue cookinff fifteen minutes, remove from the fire, 
skim and pack into jars, process pint jars at 212° Fahrenheit for 
fifteen minutes in a water-bath. 

Cherry Preserves. — 

4 pounds of clierrips I nipful of clierry jnice 

3 poiindti of nupar 

Kfake a syrup of the sugar and fruit juice, cool, add seeded 
cherries, and cook rapidly until fniit is clear and synip is of 
the proper consistency. If a thermometer is used, finish cherry 
preserves at 106° to 108' Centigrade, or 223° to 226° P. Cool, 
pack into jars, and process as for other preserves. 

Cherries (Vinegarette). — 

4 pounds of nwoot vliprrics .1 poiindH of tui^ar 

1 qunrt of vineftnr 1 rupful of di^rry juii'p 

Carefully rpraove the stones, place cherries in trays or pans, 
aud cover with diluted vinegar (two cnpfids of water and one 
cupful of vinegar). Allow to stand over night, drain well next 
morning, and cover the four pounds of fruit with a heavy syrup, 
made by boiling together three pounds of suiiar and one cupful 
of cherry juice. Allow to stand in this syrup in the sun for 
three or four days to plump. Pack into jars and strain the synip 
over them. Cherries preserved in this way are sometimes called 
homemade mara.schino cherries. This product may be artificially 
colored with vegetable coloring matter, which can be secured from 



PHKSKRVES 



the druggist. A small aiiioimt uf tlii^ i;olorin^ should be added 
when the cherries are put in Ihe heavy syrup. 

Candied Fruits. — Whole clierries, apricots, peaches, and pears 




in halves, sliced pineapples, and whole figs are often prepared in 
this way. It is a lengthy and tedious procedure. It ealla for 



162 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

alow cooking on the instalment plan, and shallow trays for 
plumping the fruit are necessary. 

First, the fruit to be candied should be washed, peeled, or 
pared, if necessary, cut or sliced and dropped into boiling water 
for two or three minutes. Drain well, cover with syrup made by 
boiling together one pound of sugar for each pound of fruit with 
one cupful of water. Boil rapidly for fifteen minutes, remove 
from the fire, and allow to stand over night. The next morning 
boil for ten or fifteen minutes again, and repeat the heating and 
cooling for four to six days, according to how rapidly the water is 
drawn out and the syrup is absorbed. The fruit plumps slowly, 
and the gradual increase in the density of the syrup caused by 
the many cookings insured tender fruit which is filled with syrup. 
After the fruit is transparent and bright, lift it from the syrup 
and dry in the sun or in a cool oven. 

Crystallized Fruit. — If a crystallized fniit is desired, use 
fruit prepared by the preeedinfr recipe. When the fruit is dry, 
cover it with a 60-degree synip (see p. 129) and allow it to stand 
for two or three days; then drain off the syrup and dry the 
pieces of fruit in the sun or in a cool oven. 
; QUESTIONS 

L 1, What is meant liy |>reHerved fruit? What is the standard for such? 
. 2. What is tlie aprcial prolilcm in preitervintfT 

I 3. What preliminary ntpp is it nis? to take wlien presprvin^ hard fruit». 
, an quinces, liaril pears, etc. 7 

i 4. Wliy should prswrvinfi In- done over a liot flrel What i» the rffect of 
I slow cookingT 

5. What is the JifTerence between preserved, candied, and crystallized 



fruit! 

a. Describe a goud sai-charoineter to use in preservinj?, statinfr its name. 
purpose, and method of use. 

7. How may a thermometer be used if no saccharonicter were at hand! 

8. Deicribe how eacii inntrument may lie UHcd to determine when the final 

point in cookiii); has been readied. 
!». When prenervinK. how will you dec'ide how dense the syrup uhall lie 
into which you plaw the fruit? 

10. Why Hhould prcnerves be allowed to coiil liefore packin^I 

1 1. When packed, at what temperature should they be processed! What is 

the purpose of this processingl 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 
See Chapter XIII, page 188. 



CHAPTER XII 

MARMALADES, JAMS AND CONSERVES 

Marmalades, jams and conserves, when well made, always 
show a jelly-like appearance, thus denoting that there must be 
some pectin present in the fruit which is used. Pectin is the 
jelly-making property found in some fruit juices (see description 
under 'Melly Making,'' p. 174). Marmalades, jams and con- 
serves should be cooked very rapidly over a hot fire in order to 
retain the best flavor and a bright color. These are the most 
attractive features of the finished products. 

Marmalades. — If large fruits are made into marmalades they 
are thinly sliced and cooked in a clear syrup as in preserving. 
The finished product shows the fruit appearing in small pieces 
throughout the mixture, and it is smooth in consistency. 

When marmalades are made of citrus fruits, such as grape- 
fruit, orange, kumquat, and lemon, the pectin is found in the 
white inner skin ; none is present in the juice. The yield of the 
finished product of marmalades made by the three-day process is 
greater, but it is perhaps no clearer nor more jelly-like in con- 
sistency than that which is made in a single day. The pectin in 
the fruit is extracted by standing, heating, and reheating with 
the acid present. Cool marmalade to 176° Fahrenheit or 80° 
Centigrade before pouring into glasses or jars. This prevents 
the pieces from rising. 

Jams. — Whole small fruits are used in making jams, but the 
fruit does not remain whole in the preparation of jam. The 
syrup is bright and the mixture is alike throughout when the 
product is finished. Practically the same methods are followed 
in making jams of all berries. The ripe broken ones give a fine 
color and flavor, but one-half of the quantity of the berries se- 
lected for making jam should be slightly under-ripe; this is 
necessary to give the jelly-like consistency to the finished prod- 

163 



Ifi4 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND FRBBEKViNU 

uct. More pectin is usually present in rare-ripe or under-ripe 
fruit than in prime ripe fruit. Cooking in araall <|uantities will 
also help to retain the color and flavor. A more delicate flavor 
will be retained by allowing three-quarters pound of sugar to 
each pound of berries than by using an equal proportion by 
weight of each. 

Jam Hhoiild !« cooked rapidly in a poreelain-linfd vessel and 
stirred with a wooden spoon or paddle. Frequently move the 
spoon across the center of the pan, first toward you and then from 
you, and around and across the pan. being careful to move the 
mixture from the bottom of it. Do not stir too rapidly or beat 
the mixture. A thermometer is useful in making jams, cooking 
to 222° Fahrenheit when finished. They will then give the same 
test as for .ielly: cool a small quantity in a spoon, and when it 
tiakes off the side of the spoon instead of coming off in drops it is 
finished, and should l>e removed from the fire immediately. Jams 
are thicker when cold than when hot, and care should be taken 
not to t-ook Ihem too long. 

By processing jams in pints or small jars in the hot-water 
hath for twenty to thirty minutes at IflO' Fahrenheit the flavor 
and the color are better preserved than when processed at boil- 
ing temperatures or over. A perfect seal may be secured by 
tightening the cap immediately at the end of the processing. 

Fruit butters and pastes are those products made from the 
edible portion of the fruit which lias b<;en passed through a sieve 
and which has had the e.\cess of water driven oft, by cooking, 
until its consistency is somewhat similar to the dairy product 
butter, but not (]Hite as thick. The fruits used for the making 
of butters should lie ripe, as immature or green fruit will notice- 
ably affect the flavor of the product, and the fruit must \k sound, 
as any decayed portion of the fruit entering into the manufac- 
ture will affect the taste and is readily detected by chemists, 
the use o£ partly decayed fruit being in violation of the Federal 
and state fooil la\^'s. In the process of making butters it is 
necessary that the edible portion be passed through a colander 
or a sieve of some description. The size of the mesh of the sieve 
will tend to affect the texture of the finished product. Only a 



MARMALADES, JAMS AND CONSERVES 165 

small amount of sugar is required, and most of the fruit butters 
have some spices added to them. The excess of water is driven 
off by cooking until the consistency is somewhat similar to the 
dairy butter. Fruit butters are generally used in the same 
manner as jams and marmalades. 

Fruit pastes and rolls are somewhat dryer than the butter 
and are used for sandwich fillings and often as a confectionery. 

Conserves. — Conserves are made either of small or large 
fruits, or both combined, with sometimes the addition of nuts and 
raisins. Rapid cooking and constant care are essential when 
making conserves. Nuts, when used, should be add(Hl five minutes 
before removing from the fire. 

MAKMAI.AI>KS 

Orange Marmalade. — 

3 pounds of oranjifps 1 Vj pints of water 

3 lemons 3 pounds of sugar 

Wash, remove the peel and seeds, cutting one-half of the 
peel into very thin strips, and add it to the pulp and balance of 
the peel, which has first had the yellow portion grated off and 
has been passed through a food ch()j)per with the pulp. Cover 
with water and let stand over night. Boil for ten minutes the 
next morning, allow to stand for twelve hours, add the sugar and 
again stand over night. Cook it rapidly the next morning until 
the jelly test can be obtained. This is indicated by the flaking 
and sheeting from the sj)oon. Cool to ITf) Fahrenheit, pour 
into sterilized glasses, and seal with paratTiii. 

Sour Orange. — 

1 pound of peeled sour oranjre y^ pound of peel removed 

1 quart of water from oranjyes 

IV2 pounds of sugar 

Wash the fruit, remove the peel in uniform sections, using 
only the portions which are free from blemishes. Cut the peel 
into as thin slices as j)ossible, cover with water, and boil for ten 
minutes. Drain, cover with boiling water, and repeat the proc- 
ess four or five times to remove the bitter flavor. 



166 SUC:CESSKUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

Weigh the pulp, slice, and for each pound of oran^s allow 
one quart of water and boil until very tender. Pour into a 
flannel jelly-bag, presa until no more juice can be obtainecl, and 
filter the juice through another clean flannel jelly-bag without 
pressing. Measure and pour the juice into the kettle, add the 
aliced peel, and 1^^ pounds of sugar for each pound of fruit 
taken, and boil rapidly until it reaches tlie jelly point. 

Grapefruit. — Make this according to directions given for sour 
orange marmalade, adding three-quarter pound of sugar to each 
pound of fruit, instead of one and one-half pounds. 

Kumquat. — Clean the kumquats with a brush and water. 
Cover them with scalding soda water (one-half cupful of soda 
to one gallon of water) and allow them to stand for five minutes. 
Rinse in clear water, slice the fruit, and remove the seeds. Re- 
move the centers from one-fourth of these slices, parboil them 
for three minutes. Place all except slices in a preserving kettle, 
and for each pound of pulp allow one quart of water. Cook 
until tender. Strain, measure, and add one pint of sugar for 
each pint of fruit juice. Add slices or circles of the rind and 
cook all together until the jelly stage is reached. Cool, pour 
into sterilized containers, and seal. The pulp and rind which 
remains may be made into a delicious jam. 

Combination (Orange, Grapefruit, and Lemon). — 
I oranffe 1 (rrajietniit 

"Wash and shred the fruit, add three times the bulk of water, 
boil for fifteen minutes, and let stand over night. Next morn- 
ing boil for ten minutes and let stand again. "When cold, meas- 
ure pint for pint of sugar and cook over a rapid fire until jelly 
stage is reached. 

Crab Apple. — Wash and core crab apples and put them 
through a food chopper. Place in a preserving kettle and add 
water, not quite covering the top layer of apples. Cook until 
tender. Weigh and add three-quarters of a pound of sugar to 
each pound of fruit. Cook until the jelly stage is reached ; pour 
into sterilized glasses, cool, and cover with paraflin. 



MARMALADES, JAMS AND CONSERVES 167 

JAMS 

Berry. — ^While wild berries may be used in all these recipes, 
the quality of the cultivated berries is better. The Eldorado is the 
best variety of blackberries, and the Cuthbert is the best variety 
of raspberry for jam. Follow general directions for making jams 
of all berries (see p. 163). 

Grape. — Remove the grapes from the stems, wash and press 
the pulps from the skins. Boil the pulp until tender, and run it 
through a sieve to remove the seeds. Add the skins to the pulp 
and weigh. To each pound of fruit allow three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar and cook together for fifteen to twenty minutes, 
or until the skins are tender. Two hundred and twenty-six de- 
grees Fahrenheit will prove a satisfactory finishing point if a 
thermometer is used. Pack hot into sterilized jars and seal im- 
mediately. Spices may be added if desired — cinnamon, white 
pepper, and cloves. 

Fig Jam. — Select ripe figs, remove all stems, treat them with 
scalding soda solution, and rinse thoroughly as for preserving. 
Cook in quantities not larger than three pounds at one time. 
Allow one and one-half pounds of sugar to each three pounds 
of figs. Add barely enough water to start the cooking (about 
one-half cupful), crush the figs, heat to boiling and add the 
sugar. Cook rapidly to 220^ Fahrenheit. Pack and process like 
preserves (see pp. 150 and 151). 

Peach Jam. — 

2 pounds of peaches 1 pound of sugar 

y., cupful of peach juice 2 teaapoonfuls of bark cinnna- 

1 cracked peach seed nion (broken in small 

Vj, teaspoonful of allspice pieces) 

1 sprig of mace 1 teanspoonful of cloves 

1 inch of ginger root 

Tie spices into cheesecloth bags; cook all materials together 
until a temperature of 222° Fahrenheit is reached. Remove 
spice-bag. Pack hot into sterilized jars, clamp on hot caps, and 
put away to cool. 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



tahlcRpoonfulH <i[ f[ ''"''" ^ 
ta.l>lMpuonfiilH of ground cio- 



BUTTERS 

Apple Butter. — 

10 jwunds of apples 

4 pounds of sugar 

2 tablntpounfulH of ground 

cloves n anion 

i|uarU of cider 

Wash, slice, and weiph the aiiples. Put into a kettle with the 
cider and cook until the appies are very tender. Pass them 
through a sieve to remove the skins and seed. Add sugar and 
spices to the pulp. Cook until the mass is as thick as desired, 
stirring frequently to prevent burning. Pour into sterilized 
crocks or jars, and when cool cover with paraffin. 



Peach Butter.- 
1 IiubIicI of prachcs 



I Kftllun of j>ear1i jui 



i {wunda of vugar 

Prepaie the juice and allow it to stand until slightly fer- 
mented. Combine peaches, juice, sugar, and one-half dozen 
peach kernels. Cook and pack as for apple butter. 

Guava Butter. — Cook guavas until tender in just enough 
water to keep them from burning. Press through a strainer to 
remove the seeds. Measure the pulp, and for each quart of 
pulp allow three I'upfnls of sugar; cook and pack hot as for 
apple butter (Fig. 96). 

Lemon Butter, — Select four medium-sized lemons, sfpieezc 
out the juice and grate the rind. To this add one-half pint of 
water, one pound of sugar, and three eggs which have been 
beaten together. Mi,\ thoroughly and cook rapidly. After about 
five minutes add a tablespoonful of butter and continue tlie 
cooking until a consistency sueh as is required for apple butter 
is reached. Care must be taken to see that the product does 
not scorch. Pour into sterilized glasses, cover with parafllin, 
and set aside in a cool dark place. 

Peanut Butter. — 

2 qiiHrtnof Spnnisli peaiiiitH 2 oiinpee of salt 

-1 ijUiirtH of Vir|;in[ft pcanlltH 



MARMALADES, JAMS AND CONSERVES 109 

Roast the peanuts uniformly brown, grind, add the salt and 
grind twice again so as to have the salt well distributed through- 
out. Pack into small jars and sterilize twelve-ounce containers 
for one hour at 180^ Fahrenheit (simmering) in a w^ater-bath. 
If there is too much oil in the butter it will separate and the 
nuts will rise, leaving the oil in the bottom of the jars. The 
Spanish peanut contains a large amount of oil, therefore it is 
necessary' to mix this variety with Virginia peanuts in the pro- 
portions given above. 

CONSERVKS 

Rhubarb Conserve. — Wash the rhubarb, cut into small pieces, 
and allow for every three pounds of rhubarb three oranges, 
three pounds of sugar, three-quarter cupful of water, one pound 
of seeded raisins, and one-half pound of shelled pecans (if de- 
sired). Slice oranges, rind and all, wash raisins, and scald the 
nuts. Mix all together and boil over a low fire for about forty- 
five minutes. If a thermometer is used, cook to 104° Centigrade. 
Pour hot into jars and seal at once. 

Medley Fruit Conserve. — 

2 pounds of peaches % pound of apples 

2 pounds of quinces 3 lemons 

1 V2 pounds of pear* Sugar 

Wash the fruit, peel or pare, core, and stone the fruit; pass 
it through a food chopper and weigh. To each pound of fruit 
allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar; put fruit and sugar 
in alternate layers in a bowl, and let stand over night. Next 
morning place in the preserving kettle with the pulp of lemons 
and one-half the rind sliced in thin strips. Boil until mixture 
becomes very thick. One cup of scalded chopped nuts may be 
added if desired, five minutes before removing from the fire. 
Pack hot into hot sterilized jars and seal at once. 

Plum Conserve. — 

',i pounds of Damson plums 1 pound of seeded raisins 

(after cuttinjr) 1 orange 

1 'ii pounds of sugar 1 cup of shelled pecans 

Juice of 1 lemon 



no 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



Slice plums, orange and lemon, add sugar and cook until thick 
and transparent. Put nuts into mixture five minutes before 
removing from the fire. If a thermometer is used cook the 
conserve to 103° Centigrade. Pack hot into sterilized jars and 
seal immediately. Process pint jars for thirty minutes at 180° 
Fahrenheit in a water-bath. 



Fig Conserve. — 

2 pounds of freeh (Iga or 
1 quart of plain canned llgH 
I orange 



1 ^ puuiids of sugar 

% cupful of pecans (slit'lled) 

Vi pound of raisins 



Gut all, except nuts, into small pieces and cook until thick 
and transparent {about one hour). Add nuts five minutes 
before removing from stove. Pack and seal hot. Process as for 
plum conserve. 

FKUIT PASTES 

Fruit pastes are sometimes made for home use from the fruit 
pulp which is left after some of the clear juice has been extracted 
from the fruit for jelly making. A product of delightful flavor 
may be made by combining the pulp of different kinds of fruits. 
Press the pulp through a sieve, measure, and to each pound of 
cherry, plum, raspberry, strawberry, currant, or gooseberry pulp 
allow one pound of powdered sugar. Cook together over a low 
fire, carefully watching to prevent scorching, until it begins to 
thicken. Cooking the pulp in a double boiler for the last half 
hour of the cooking will aid in keeping the paste from burning. 
If the pulp is well boiled down it is more easily dried. Scalded 
and chopped nut kernels, crystallized orange peel, or preserved 
watermelon rind or citron can be cooked in the paste. Pour 
one-half inch layers of the rather solid mixture upon marble or 
glass slabs or platters which have been rubbed with salad oil. 
Place where a breeze or current of air will pass over it and allow 
to dry for two or three days. 

Cut the paste into one-inch squares, roll in granulated sugar, 
and stand again in a draft for two or three days. Pack in tin 
bo.\es, glass jars, or paraffin -coated containers. If packed in 
layers, place a piece of parchment paper iM-tween the layers. 



MARMALADES, JAMS AND CONSERVES 171 

Apricot, peach, apple, and quince pastes are made in the 
same manner, except the proportion of sugar may be reduced 
for the apple and quince, three-quarters of a pound of sugar 
being a fair allowance for each pound of pulp. These cubes of 
fruit paste make attractive garnishes for custards, fruit cock- 
tails, creams, cakes, etc. Different flavorings, such as vanilla 
or peppermint, may be used in these pastes, and sometimes harm- 
less vegetable colors are stirred into the mass just as soon as it 
is removed from the fire. 

A fancy pack of bands of color might be arranged as in 
jelly packing if several different fruit pastes are made at one 
time. When nearly dry (before cutting), put the different 
colors and flavors in alternate layers until four or five layers 
have been used. Press lightly and allow to stand for one hour 
in a draft. Cut into one-inch strips, cutting through all the 
layers, and dry again for one hour. 

Store as for other pastes. 

Fig Paste. — Treat the figs with a soda bath as for preserves, 
rinse and cook until tender in fresh, clear boiling water. Drain 
well and put the figs through a food chopper or rub pulp through 
a colander. Allow one pound of sugar for each ([uart of pulp. 
Mix and cook until it is a rather solid mass. Spread w4th an 
oiled spatula on the oiled surface of a flat dish, marble or glass 
slab, and finish drying in the sun. Three or four days will be 
required for drying. The trays should be brought into the house 
each night, and they should be protected from both flying and 
crawling insects. When thoroughly dry, roll, wrap, and pack 
as peach roll (p. 172). 

Quince Cheese. — Wash the fruit, cut into quarters, remove 
core, stem, and flower. Cook the cpiinces until very tender in 
water, drain and rub through a sieve. Measure and allow three- 
quarter pound of sugar for each pound of pulp, and boil to- 
gether until it is so thick that it will not quickly run together 
when a spoon or wooden paddle has passed through the mass. 
The pulp left from quince jelly can be pressed through a sieve 
and used as fresh pulp in making this paste or ** cheese.^' Pour 
hot into hot sterilized glasses and seal like jelly. This ** quince 



IM 



SUCCESSFLX CANTIIXG ASD PHESERVIKG 



cheese," when turned out of the glass, will hold the shape of the 
mould and may he sliced. 

Peach Roll. — Select ripe, soft peaches, remove the skins and 
stones, weigh the fruit and add one-fourth pound of sugar to 
each pound of fruit, place over the fire, and while cooking 
mash with a wooden spoon. When the fruit is verj- soft, rub 
it through a colander to insure that no hard lumps remain. 
Continue the cooking until a heavy consistency is reaobed. 




Remove from the pan, spread on a smooth board which has 
been greased, place in the sun and cover with cheesecloth to 
keep off insects. When it is dry, sprinkle with granulated sugar, 
roll it up and wrap tightly in a eloth. Tt will keep for a long 
period of time 

Green Tomato Mince Meat. — 



1 perk of green tomBtoes 
2Vi pounds of brown nugar 

2 pounds of raisins 

1 pound of l>eef Buet 
% cupful of vineftar 

2 tablespoonfuls of salt 



2 tablespoon fuls of ground cin- 

1 teaspoonful of ground clovfti 

2 teaspoonfiila of nutmeg 

2 cupfuU of chopped apples (if 
desired ) 



Slice the tomatoes thinly, or put them through a food chopper, 
allow to drain, cover with cold water, place over the fire, and 
boil for five minutes. Drain well, add suet, vinegar, fruit, and 



MARMALADES, JAMS AND CX)NSERVES 



173 



seasoning, return to the fire and allow to simmer for from thirty 
to forty-five minutes. 

QUESTIONS 

1. State the general standard for marmalades and the care necessary to 

secure each characteristic. 
12. Where is pectin found in tlie citrus fruits? How can it be extracted? 

How can the pieces in a citrus marmalade b.e j)revented from rising? 
.'{. From wliat are jams made? State the standard for jama and the care 

neccHsary to secure each characteristic. 
4. Describe the care necessary while the jam is cooking. What caution is 

it wise to kec[) in mind wliile stirring jams? Describe carefully the 

met}io<l for testing marmalades and jams. 
.5. Under wliat conditions would you choose to make a conserve rather than 

a marmalade or jam? 



ln^LI()(^KAPHY 

See Chapter XIII. page 188. 



CHAPTER XIH 

JELLY MAKING 

Description. — Jellies are made by cooking leather certain 
fruit juices and sugar in the i)roper proportions. A good glass 
of jelly is clear, sparkling, transparent, and of a beautiful color. 
When slipped out of the glass, il holds its form and will quiver. 
It can be cut with a clean, distinct cleavage, retaining the clear 
surface and angles made by the knife. Tenderness and firmness 
are unmistakable cinalities. The aroma and delectable flavor of 
a good jelly recalls the beauty and fragrance of an orchard 
or a vineyard. There are two types of jelh^ — the fruit jelly, 
that is made from the natural fruit juices which contain sufficient 
pectin for making good jelly, and the pectin-base jelly, which 
is usually artificially colored and has the addition of some 
flavoring. Many advocate the natural-fruit jelly in preference 
to the pectin-base, tinted and Havored with rose, mint, and 
other such flavors, because they consider the pure natural-fruit 
jelly mon- artistic. 

If the resulting mass is syru]iy and .sticky or tough and 
gummy, it fails to meet the rei|uirements for a jelly. 

Pectin, the Properties Necessary for Jelly Making. — Pectin 
is the essential jelly-making substance found in fruit juices. A 
combination in fruit juices of pectin, acid, and sugar in the 
proper proportions is essential in order to make good jelly. The 
best fruits for jelly makinir are those which contain both acid 
and pectin. The peelin, the fundamental jelly-making <|uality, 
does not exist in all fruits, and it is more abundant in slightly 
under-ripe fruit than in that which is fully ripe. As the fruit 
ripens, it becomes sweeter and it is believed that the pectin, 
which is a carbohydrate, is changed by the heat of the sun into 
a fruit sugar. Therefore, fruits which are not over-ripe are 
most satisfactory for jelly-making. Apples, currants, goose- 
berrii's, grapes, and oranges are fruits most commonly used for 
174 



JELLY AUKING 



175 



jelly making. Some fruits rich in pectin do not contain acid 
and will not make jelly unless an acid is added. The quince 
and giiava arc examples of this. Jellies may be made from 
siieh fruits as cherries, pineapples, rhubarb, strawberries, and 
peaches if the necessary pectin is added. Pectin can be ex- 
tnieted from the white part of the orange-peel and added to 
these juices, 'j'herefore, a very satisfaetorj' jelly can be made 




obtaining the rtavor and color of fruits which do not contain 
sufficient pectin to make good jelly. If half the fniit selected 
is ripe fruit and the other half slightly under-ripe, the ripe 
fruit will furnish the fine flavor and color, while the under-ripe 
fruit will contain the jellyinji property and give a lietter con- 
sistency to the finished pniduct. 

Extracting the Juice. — This is easily done by applying heat. 
Fruit juice flows more n>adily when the fruif is heated than 
when the fruit is simply crushed. Heating is necessary also 



17C 



sulx;essful canninu axd preserving 



to develop the pectin Id the fruit. Sotnetimeii when no pectin 
is found in the raw pressed juice of certain fruits juices cooked 
out of the same fruit will show a large amount of it. Addition 
of acid before <^ookinK will also help to hring out the pectin. 




Fia. 100. — Tntinc fruil juico for peclin. 

The quince is an example of fruit which often reiiuires an acid 
to he added. 

Juicy fruits should first be crushed and have only enough 
water added to allow the fruit to cook until tender. Less juicy 
fruit, of which the apple is a type, requires more water. For 



,IF,1.LY MAKING 



177 



each pound of apples use two pints of 
water and cook until the pieces are very 
tender. 

Squeeze the cooked fruit in a moist- 
ened double cheesecloth to extract the 
juirt, and then strain the juice through 
a flannel or haircloth jelly-bag which has 
first Iwcn dipped into boiling water. By 
squeezing the pulp before letting the juice 
stand to drip through the jelly-bag more 
juice is obtained from the first dripping. 
Frequently the fruit juices may be ex- 
tracted a second time by adding water to 
the pulp and recooking it. The second 
extraction is weaker in pectin and will 
require less sugar than the first extraction 
(Figs. 97 and 98). 

Test the juice for pectin and find 
whether there is considerable pectin 
present. Pour into a gla.ss one table- 
spo(mful of the fniit juice and add to it 
the same amount of grain alcohol {95 per 
cent pure), mix by turning the glass 
gently, then ponr carefully into another 
glass. If the pectin precipitates in a solid 
mass or clot, it is usually safe to add a 
eupful of sugar to each cup of juice in 
making jelly (Figs. 90 and 100). 

If the pectin does not collect in this 
manner, the amount of sugar should be 
decreased. The most usual mistake made 
in jelly making is the addition of too 
much sugar, the result being a syrup 
. instead of a jelly. This test for the pres- 

?e of peetin In fniit juice is not an 
accurate quantitative test, but simply 
indicates whether little or much pectin 



IT'S 



SUCCESSFUL CAKXING AND I'RESERVING 



ia present. Different juices contain varying proportions of pec- 
tin, so one can readily see what a risk is taken when equal 
volumes of sugar and fruit juiees are cooked together to make 
jelly, using the same rule for every sort of fruit. If the pectin 
test shows a small amount of pectin, only half the volume of 
sugar should be used to each volume of fruit juice. Sometimes 
a saecharometer is used to determine the percentage of fruit 
solids present in the fruit juice and to determine from the read- 
ing the amount of sugar necessary to combine with a given 
quantity of juice to make good jelly (Fig. 101), Consider 
apple juice first after the juice has been extracted from the 
fruit by crushing, heating, and straining; cool it to room tem- 
perature. Pour some of the juice into a slender cylinder which 
is deep enough tn float the Brix or Balling spindle. Read the 
figure on the spindle which appears at the surface of the juice, 
and if, for example, the reading is 8 on the spindle, then thirteen 
ounces of sugar wilt be the proper proportion of sugar to 
combine with each quart of juice to make a good jelly. 

The following table may be used when testing apple juice 
with a spindle to determine the amount of solids in. the solution 
and the amount of sugar necessary to combine with it to make 
a jelly. Cool to room temperature before taking the reading: 



, Forpschqu. 


t of juipp Bdd 


lividing of sii 








^^,^X ^ ■,._;; 


Dnnro 


5,0 I 


S 


5..i 1 


it 


0.0 1 


9.6 


6,5 


10-7 


7.0 1 


11.6 


7.5 


12-4 


8.0 ' 


13-2 


8.5 . 


14.1 


9.0 ' 


15.0 


9.5 


15,R 


10.0 1 









This table is ar 
of 20° Centigrade i 



inged for juices which have a temperature 
• 68"= Fahrenheit. The juices should never 



JELLY MAKING 179 

be tested immediately upon straining, unless they have cooled 
to room temperature. 

As already stated, in making jellies more failures result from 
addition of too much sugar to the juice than for all other causes, 
and if the amcmnt of sugar can be determined success is almost 
sure. Doctor Straughn has constructed tables like the above, 
which indicate the amount of sugar to be added to juices when 
their density is known, and this density can be determined by 
means of the Brix spindle or saccharometer. The use of the 
Brix spindle correctly necessitates the use of the table con- 
structed for this purpose to transfer the Brix percentage density 
reading into the amount of sugar needed. This method has now 
been simplified by Doctor Straughn, who has devised an instru- 
ment, called a jellometcr, with direct readings in ounces of 
sugar to be used for each cjuart of the juice, thus doing away 
with the tables (Fig. 102). To use the jellometer it is only 
necessary to float it in the fruit juice, which has been cooled to 
room temperature. The point at which it floats indicates the 
number of ounces of sugar to be added. 

Quantity of Juice Cooked at One Time. — No difficulty should 
be found in handling eight or ten glasses at one time if every- 
thing for the complete process is conveniently arranged before 
cooking is begun. The cai)acity of the kettle should be four 
times as great as the quantity of juice cooked. 

When to Add the Sugar. — The time for adding sugar is of 
importance* (»ven if the sugar has been properly proportioned 
to the juice in the beginning. There is no single trick to per- 
form that will assure perfect results in jelly making, but a good, 
uniform product may easily be obtained by carefully following 
the general principles of jelly making which are outlined. The 
old method required that the sugar be added in the beginning 
of the process. The longer sugar is boiled with a weak acid, 
such as we have in fruit juice suitable for making jelly, the 
more the sugar is split or inverted into simple sugars, and the 
longer this goi»s cm the less danger then* will be in having the 
sugar crystallize out. Another method is that of cooking the 
juice and adding the sugar near the end of the process. The 



180 SLXCESSfCL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



as 
ill 

IBO ~ 



JlHiiill 



Flu. 102.— Jdlomeler fur Uiiiiii« fr 



JELLY MAKING 



181 



latter method, however, is not so good as the first, since, if the 
sugar does not all dissolve aud mix thoroughly with the fruit 
juice, some of the sugar used is likely to crystallize out. After 
the jelly stands for a while these crystals may be seen through- 
out the jelly. Midway between these extremes we might choose 
a happy medium by adding the sugar just as soou as the juice 
boils. Altlioujih adding cold sugar to the hot juiee stops the 
cooking by a partial cooling of the juice, there is no real virtue 




in heating the sugar. The prolongation of the cooking, if there 
is any, ia less trouble than heating the sugar when there is no 
appreciable gain, 

(booking the Jelly. — When the proper amount of sugar ia 
determined, allow the juice to boil before adding it (Fig. 103). 
Clarify the juice by skimming it before the addition of sugar. 
Add the sugar gradually to the boiling juice, stirring until it is 
all dissolved. Cook very rapidly to keep the jelly a bright color 
and the product clear. Skimming the juice after the sugar is 
added is not a good practice from an economical standpoint. 



183 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



A .thermometer will aid greatly in jelly making. If placed 
in the eookiiig juice it will indicate the approach of the jelly 
Btage, and the cooking juice will not need to be watched very 
closely until the temperature of 216° to 217° Fahrenheit or 
102° to 103° Centigrade is reached. After this the jnice cooks 
very rapidly and reciuirea constant watching. The juice for 
jelly should not be allowed to simmer. All jellies should l>e 
made as quickly as possible when once the cooking has begun. 




By long cooking, the acid affects the pectin in such a way as to 
cause it to lose some of its jelly-making power. Long cooking 
also has the tendency to make the finished product dull and 
darker than jelly which has been cooked rapidly over a hot fire. 
Test the juice to determine when the jelly is finished. Take 
a small amount of juice in a spoon and cool it by gently moving 
it in the air for a few seconds and allow it to drop from the side 
of the spoon or wooden paddle. At first it will just run off as 



JELLY MAKING 183 

a synip; then, as it cooks, the drops will become heavier, and 
when the drops run together and slide off in a flake or sheet 
from the side of the spoon, leaving the edge clean, the jelly is 
finished and should be removed from the fire at once. Skim- 
ming while cooking the juice is wasteful. Be careful not to 
break the scum while testing the juice for the jelly stage. After 
a good jelly test is obtained and the vessel is removed from the 
fire the scum may be removed all at one time before pouring 
the jelly into the containers. It is very necessary at this point 
to keep a cool head and work rapidly so that the jelly will not 
have time to cool in the pan (Figs. 104 A and B). 

Pouring the Jelly into the Glasses. — Jelly should be poured, 
while hot, into hot sterilized glasses. Fill the glasses full. Little 
bubbles collect on the surface, and these can be removed in a 
teaspoon by running it around the top of the jelly. If possible, 
allow the jelly to stand in the sun as it cools. When it is firm 
the jelly will have shrunken, leaving a space for melted paraffin. 
Pour a layer of melted paraffin over the top to seal it from the 
air (Fig. 105). The paraffin will run down along the edge and 
stick more securely if a small wooden stick is carefully run 
around the edge of the jelly after paraffin is* poured on. If the 
paraffin runs down between the jelly and the glass for about 
one-fourth inch it will not be so easily slipped away from the 
jelly as it is when simply poured over the top in a thin layer. 
Another way to protect the jelly is sometimes used. A circle of 
paper is cut to fit into the glass, then dipped into grain alcohol 
or brandy and placed ov?r the jelly. The alcohol or brandy 
serves, as does the hot paraffin, to kill any mold that might have 
dropped on top of the jelly as it stood to cool. 

Covering the Glass. — Covering the glass is necessary after 
the paraffin or the dipped paper circle is placed on top of the 
jelly. Tie paper down tightly around the edge of the glass or 
put a tightly fitting cover over it. 

Labelling. — Place small, neatly printed labels half way be- 
tween the seams of the glass and near the lower edge. The label 
should be no larger than necessary to print the required in- 
formation if the jelly is to be sold. Too much of the product 



184 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



ia bidden when a large label is used. Generally it is not attractive 
to uae brightly colored labels, because they detract from the color 
of the product. 

Storing Jellies (Fig. 106).— A bright listht will cause jellies 
to fade in color and also cause them to "weep"; that ia, leak 
out and spoil the label. Keep them in a cool, dark, dry place. 




If a tender jelly is handled or allowed to stand for several 
mouths in a jar which is not hermeticully sealed, it is very apt 
to "weep." To prevent this weeping, commercial concerns her- 
metically seal their jelly jars. Hy using the crimped crown 
cap and the hand-sealing machine illustrated in the chapter on 
"Fniit Juices" (p. 102) jelly glasses may easily be scaled air- 
lipht. "When the jelly is to be sealed in this manner it should 
first be allowed to cool and then have a thin layer of melted 



JELLY lUKlKG 



183 



paraffin or a. circle of paper which haa been dipped into grain 
alcohol plaetd over the top before crimping on tlie cap. 

Fancy Packs. — Fancy packs of jelly may be made by packing 
two or three jellies of iHfferent Havors and colors in one glass. 
It is nocfssary to allow the first layer to cool before adding the 
BGRond, and so on. Apple juice or oiango prctin may be used for 
a base and have Ihe different liavors and colors addeit. For 
instance, jelly can be made of cherry, ■ pineapple, strawberry, 




rhubarb, ami oIIut fruits by adding.' ihc necessary |)eetin in the 
form of iii)pli' juiii' or oran^re prctin. .\ mint .jelly may be made 
by colorinir eithi-r Hpple or oranfri' pectin ji'Ily yrceii with a 
veiretalih- eolnrintr mutter iiiiil Ibivoriny it with the fresh mint 
or a very few drojis of spirits iif peppi'rmint. 

Fancy Jellies. — Ftini-y jilliis emi hi' maile from niin-peetin 
fniits and other materials liy us'nis a peelin preparation made 
from the oranjie or apple and eombininir this with strawberry 



18S SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

or other non-pectin fruits or with mint and other flavors. The 
non-pectin fruits, it will be recalled, include cherries, pineapples, 
rhubarb, and peaches. The use of one-half of the orange or 
apple pectin prepared as below, and one-half of a non-pectin 
fruit, will give satisfactory results, providing a jelly with the 
color and flavor of some desired fruit, although the latter will 
not of itself make jelly. The preparation of orange pectin is 
described and a couple. of sample recipes for these fancy jellies 
are given (Pig. 107). 

Preparation of Orange Pectin. — 

■^ pound of -white portion or- 3 tablespoonfulB of lemon juic« 

angp-p««l 6 cupfuU of cold water 

Scrape or grate the yellow from the peel of the orange. 
Remove the remaining white portion and pass it through a food 
chopper. Weiph, and for each half pound allow three eupfuls 
of cold water and one tableapoonful of lemon juice for each cup 
of water. Jlix thoroujrhly, allow to stand for four or five hours, 
then boil for ten minutes, and cool. Add another three eupfuls 
of cold water. Bring to a boil and let stand over night. Next 
morning boil for five minutes, allow to cool, place in a tlannel 
jelly-bag, squeeze it to remove all the juice, and then filter the 
juice through a clean flannel jelly-bag without pressing it. 

This pectin may be used as a foundation in making jellies 
from fruit juices which do not contain a sufficient amount of 
pectin. If the pectin is to be kept for use later, pour it into 
sterilized jars while hot, process quart jars in a water-bath at 
simmering (180° Fahrenheit) for thirty minntes; seal and store 
in a dark place. 

Strawberry and Orange Pectin Jelly. — 
1 cupful of orange pectin 1 cupful of strawberry juice 

1 cupful of Bii^r 

Mix the pectin with the berry juice and bring it to bailing, 
add the sugar, and continue boiling until the jfUy stage is 
reached. This finishing point is indicated by the flaking and 
sheeting from the spoon. Skim after removing jelly from the 



JELLY MAKING 187 

fire; pour immediately into hot sterilized jelly glasses. Cool 
and cover with melted paraffin. 
Mint Jelly.— 

1 pint of oran)^ or apple pectin 2 dropn of oil ot peppermint 

1 pint of su);ar 2 drops ot green venetablo cot- 

Heat the pectin to boiling, add the sugar gradually, and 
continue boiling until the jelly will Hake from the side of a 
spoon. At this point add carefully two drops of oil of pepper- 
mint, together with the two drops of green vegetable coloring 




matter. (This vegetable coloring may be obtained from a drug 
store.) Stir gently and pour while hot into sterilized glasses. 
After a few moments the scum which rises to the top may he 
ea.sily removed from the jelly with a teaspoon. When cold, pour 
hot paraffin over it. Place sterilized lids over the jelly glasses 
or tie a circle of white paper over each, 

Kqnal parts of pectin and non-pectin fruit juices combined, 
using the same amount of sugar as pectin, will usually be the 
proper proportion to use, when a flavor and color of non-pectin 
fruit are desired in jelly. 



188 



SUCCKSSf UL canning and PkKsiiRVING 



QUESTIONS 

1. SUU in your own wordg the standard for jelly. 

2. Whst do the Wat jelly-making fruits contain T 

3. What is the character of pectin! W'liat in tlie elTei-t of tlie hnt of the 

BUn upon iti Whjit effect has lon^ cooking U[>oii itT 

4. Describe how to teet a fruit juice for tlie approximate amount of pectin 

present. 

0. What is the usual mistake in jelly making? How can this l>e avoided! 

6. How should jellies be cooked! Wliy is this necessary! 

7. DeHcribe how to determine when the jelly has cooked suHiciently. 

8. What is a satisfactory method of sealing jelly! In what kind of a 

place should it be storwl! 

UIBLlOGRiMMiy 

1. Fox, MiNNiF, C, "Blue Grass Cook Book," 1B04. Puhlished by fox, 

Duflield & Co,, New York City. N. Y. »l.3(l. 

2. (ioLDTiiwAiTE, N. K., " Pnni'ipleH uf .Telly Making," Kooil t^ries No. 3, 

vol. 1. No. li), Cornell Iteading Courses, May, lfll-1. I'ublished by 
the New York State College of Agriculture. Cornell University, 
Ithaca, N. Y. 

3. GOLDTIIWAITK, N. E., " Chemistry and Physics of Jelly Making," article 

published by the Journal of In^uatrial and Engineering Chcmiairy, 
vol. 1, pp. 333-344. June, 11)09; Tol. 2, pp. 457 to 402, November, 
1910, American Chemical Society, Easton, Pa. $G per year. 

4. GouiTiiWAiTB, N. E., " Principles of Jelly Making," University of Illi- 
nois Bulletin No. 31, University of Illinois, Urbane, III. 

6. Harris, Aones Kllev, ''Jellies, Preserves, and Marmalades," Exten- 
sion Bulletin No. 3, State College for Women. Published by the State 
College (or Women, Tallahassee. Fla.. June, IBl.i. 

0. MrKiMMON, Ja\e S., " Strawl)erry, Blacklierry, and Ra-iplierry Jam," 
North Carolina Canning Club Be<'ii>es. Published by the State Col- 
lege of Agriculture, lialeigh, N. C. 



CHAPTER XIV 



PICKLING 



The preservation of food with salt or vinegar, either with or 
without the addition of spices or sugar, is commonly known as 
pickling. The predominating flavor determines the kind of pickle 
— sour pickle, sweet pickle, or spiced pickle. Green and slightly 
unripe fruits and vegetables are generally used for pickling. A 
great variety of vegetables and fruits may be kept by this method. 
Among the most common vegetables which are pickled are cucum- 
bers, tomatoes, beets, onions, carrots, martynias, artichokes, cab- 
bage, and chayotes.^ 

The method of grating horseradish or putting it through a 
food chopper and combining it with suflficient vinegar to moisten 
it is one of the simplest types of pickling. Some vegetables give 
better results if they are soaked in salt water over night or until 
thoroughly cured. This makes the tissue firmer and extracts 
water from it. Some fruits and vegetables require this special 
treatment, while others need -only to be parboiled in salt water. 
By either of these methods the tissues are better prepared to 
absorb the flavored vinegar or syrup. 

Utensils to Use in Pickle Making. — Only porcelain-lined or 
granite-wear kettles should be used when cooking pickles. Acid 
will attack metal utensils and they should not be used. A granite 
or wooden spoon should be used for stirring. A perforated agate 
ladle is a convenient utensil for lifting the pieces of pickle from 
the kettle. Finished pickles should be packed into sterilized jars 
or crocks. 

Sweet Pickles. — Among the fruits especially good for sweet 
pickles are peaches, apples, plums, watermelon and cantaloupe 
rinds, cherries, grapes, gooseberries, figs, and pears. 

iTlie cliayote {Chayota cdulis) is rather a comparatively new vegetable. 
It is a climbing vine, resembling the cuciinil>er in grow'th, although it is 
much more vigorous and prolific. The fruit is pear-shaped and somewhat 
corrugated, with a single flat seed. jgg 



190 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PKESERVING 

Mixed Pickles. — ^lixed pickles are made from various combi- 
nations of such vegetables as beans, cauUtlower, onions, small ears 
of corn (two or three inches in length), cucumbers, and cabbage. 

Relishes. — Pickles consisting of finely, evenly chopped v^je- 
tabies are known as relishes ; Chile sauee, chow-chow, and pica- 
lilli are often so classified. 

Chutney. — Chutney is a hot sweet pickle originated in India. 
There are a number of other condiments made in many ways 
that belong to this class of pickle. Chutneya arc of Oriental 
origin. They are served with curries, cold meats, sausage, and 
Btews. 

Mangoes. — The mango is a fruit believed to be a native of 
southern Asia, but it is now grown in nearly all sub-tropieal 
countries. In addition to use as a fresh fruit, mango forms the 
basis of most cliutneys of East India type and is also canned and 
other wise preserved. Tlie mango melon is a small round melon 
with yellow skin and white flesh. It is cultivated chiefly for 
domestic mango pickling and preserving. Often small green 
melons, burr gherkins, and peppers are stuffed and pickled. 
The term "Mango" is popularly used for stuffed pickles. 

Ketchup and Sauces. — When the materials to be pickled are 
finely chopped, cooked, and strained, and the resulting product is 
a more or less thick fluid, they are called ketchups or sauces. 
Many fruits and vegetables may be used for this purpose, but 
tomatoes are more generally used. 

Dill Pickles. — In making dill pickles and sauer-kraut the acid 
is produced by fermentation and not by adding vinegar. The 
lactic acid bacteria convert the sugar present in these vegetables 
into lactic acid which acts as the preserving agent. The dill is 
added for the sake of its spicy flavor. 



Large quantities of vegetables may be taken care of during 
the harvesting season by brining them and allowing them to cure. 
They may be finished several mouths later in a less busy season, 
and when vinegar, sugar, and spices are likely to be cheaper. 



PICKLING 191 

This method of keeping vegetables has been practiced since 
primitive times. Our ancestors saved much of their surplus crop 
by storing it away in brine. Sometimes this material kept well ; 
often it did not. The failure was attributed to bad luck, and the 
reasons for it were unknown. Tremendous losses in the spoilage 
of pickles in factories led to scientific investigation of this subject 
As a result valuable information has been contributed to the pub- 
lic. Otto Rahn's experiments at the University of Michigan are 
the source of much of this information. 

The causes of spoilage will be discussed later. The different 
methods used in brining and pickling may be more satisfactorily 
explained by the use of a single product; for example, the 
cucumber. 

PICKLING THE CUCUMBER 

Preparation. — It is not necessary to wash the cucumbers 
before putting them into brine, since the bacteria on the outside 
of the vegetable aid in the process, and the brine pickles are 
washed, anyway, before being eaten. This does not apply in 
the case of dill pickles. These are eaten as they come from the 
crocks. German bacteriologists recommend that a little whey 
from sour milk be put into the pickle barrel to hasten the 
fermentation. 

Brine. — Soft water should be used in making the brine. 
Water containing much iron or lime will discolor the pickles. 
Put the cucumbers into brine very soon after they are gathered. 
A good measure of salt is absolutely necessary to prevent spoil- 
age, but salt alone is not enough. The strength of the brine 
used can easily be determined by using a salometer — a hydrom- 
eter or spindle which will show the density or strength of the 
brine by floating in the liquid (Fig. 108). The cucumbers may 
be put down in a 45 degree to a 60 degree brine. The salt 
draws out water from the vegetable tissues and toughens them 
somewhat. For this reason the weaker brine will give a 
better texture to the finished product. About one pound nine 
ounces of salt dissolved in one gallon of water will cause a salt 
hydrometer to float at about 45 on the scale, which will show that 
it is a 45 degree salt solution. The cucumbers should be weighted 



.SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND rRESERVING 

down 80 this solution will completely cover them. A 
cheesecloth may be placed over the top to exclude the 
dtist and at the same time admit air. 





Weight ol mit 


Qu«atilv of 
waMr 


D.^™,^ 


I 


2 ounces 


UquarU 


4 




4 ounces 


6quiirtB 


8 


3 




quarts 


12 


4 




6 quarts 


16 


5 


10 ounces 


6 quarts 


20 


6 


nn ounces 


6 quarts 


24 


7 


Uy^ ounces 


6 quarts 


28 


8 


161^ ounces 


6 quarts 


32 


9 


1 pound 3 ounces 


15 quarts 


36 


10 


1 |)oiind 6 ounces 


6 quarts 


40 


15 


2ii pounds 


U quarts 


60 


20 


3 pounds 


6 quarts 


80 


25 


4 jiounda 


tt quarts 


100 






From tlic above table it u-ill be unUeratood that the Rgures 
reprceciitiii^ tlie percenta)^ of salt in a solution is obtained 
by ilividinj; tbe number of deKi^ees wbicli are read on a 
salometer by 4; for instHnre, to make a Hi" snit solution we 
have to dissolve CM divided by 4, or 17 parts of Mult in 83 
parts of water. 

Grading. — Cueumliers should be ^aded according 
to size, as follows {Fig. 109) : 

SiKe 1 — I to i iiiebes— Small jjlicrkina. 

Size '2 — 2 to :i inclies— Small pieklcg. 

Sine .1—3 to 4 incbes— Alediuiii piekle«. 

Rile 4 — + inebea and over — Ijiige jiii'kles. 
Bacteria Necessary. — Many kinds of bacteria are 
present on the surface of the cucuiubera, especially if 
a little dirt adheres to them. Among the other organ- 
isms there are a considerable number of lactic acid 
bacteria. The presence of salt and lack of air in the 
brine prevent most of the other bacteria from grow- 
ing; the lactic acid organisms, however, not bein^ 
restrained to bs great a degree as the other types grow 
''■ upon the substances given off by the shrinking of the 



194 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

cucumbers io the salt Bolutiou and convert the sugar into lactic 
acid and gas.* The gas escapes and can be seen in little bubbles 
on the top of the brine. The bubbles indicate that fermentation 
is taking place. The acid turns the grass greenness of the 
vegetable to an olive green, which color is recognized as being 
the correct tint for pickles. When the frothing ceases the acid 
present in the brine is strong enough to kill most of the bacteria 
in the liquid, and from this time nn the pickle brine should be 
covered, as explained below. 

Spoilage Caused by Other Bacteria. — It is important, from 
the beginning of the process, to keep the vegetable being pickled 
weighted below the surface of the brine. If pieces protrude, the 
so-called potato bacillus will grow upon the exposed surfaces and 
oau^ spoilage. They grow rapidly and may do great damage in 
a very short time. The addition of a little vinegar will destroy 
these bacteria if they are discovered before much damage is 
done. 

Test for Acid, — To determine when the brine reaches the 
acid stage, put a piece of blue litmus paper into it. If the litmus 
paper turns red, showing the presence of acid, all air should be 
excluded from the brine. This prevents the formation of yeast 
scum, which causes the spoiling of the pickles. 

Preventing Scum Yeast. — This is not difficult. Simply skim- 
ming the yeast off is not sufficient, because it will grow again 
unless the container is sealed air-tight immediately after the brine 
tests acid. The very fact that yeast grows a scum proves that it 
must have air in order to live. It cannot endure hot sunlight, 
either. The bacteria which form the acid in the brine have jiist 
the opposite characteristics. Tliey grow at the bottom of the 
crock or jar, where they avoid the air and where there is no light. 

Excluding the Air. — It is necessary to exclude air, because 
air may carry in with it yeast, and the scum, which might form, 
would cause the pickles to soften and spoil. So soon as the acid 
test is obtained take care to weight the enciimhers down under the 

'Most of the gaa U caused by the reapiration or breathing of tbe living 
tissue cella of the euciimb*rB; a smeU ainoiint, lii.wrv.T, in proiliireil lij- 
certain types of lactic acid bacteria. 



PICKLING 



105 



briue, cover the brine with a piece of cheesecloth, and then pour 
on a. thick layer of melted paraffin. Place the lids on the crocks 
or jars and wrap a atrip of cheesecloth, dipped in hot melted par- 
affin, around where the lid and the top of the container meet, let- 
ting the paraffin harden and seal the opening. The paraffin is 
inexpensive and can be remelted and used year after year. Care 
should be taken not to pour it over the brine until fermentation 
has ceased, otherwise the gases arising from the brine will crack 
the paraffin and make reraelting necessary. The containers should 
not bo disturbed after they have been so sealed. One important 
characteristic of this scum is that it will not grow iii the absence 




of air, therefore the exclusion of air from the surface will entirely 
prevent the seimi from forming (Fig. 110). 

Brining in Barrels. — In treating large quantities, secure tight 
kegs or liarrels. These may have to be charred and cleansed well. 
It is possible in brining vegetables to commence with a lighter 
brine, but they should probably be packed in a brine not lighter 
than 60 degrees. As soon as the brine testa acid, the barrels 
can be bunged up tightly to keep out all air. Since the brine is 
likely to settle and become strong at the bottom and weak at the 
top, it is best to turn the casks or barrels over every week for the 
first few weeks. 



196 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

When these pickles are open they should he firm, good olive- 
green color and in fine condition. The great secret of pickle-mak- 
ing lies ill bringing about acid fermentation quickly, and, after 
this is done, in preserving the acidity of the hrine by covering 
tightly. 

SPICED. CUCUMBER PICKLE 

Open the containers, weigh and freshen the cured cucumbers 
by allowing them to stand for an hour or two in clear, cold water. 
It is believed that the pickles are improved in texture {made crisp 
and firm) by dropping tliera into a lime bath (one ounce of lime 
to one gallon of water) for about two hours. The lime used is 
calcium oxide and can be obtained from drug stores. The color 
may be intensified by neutralizing the acid with a soda bath (one 
teaspoonful of soda to one gallon nf water). If cither of these 
baths is used it is necessary, immediately afterwards, to plunge 
the cucumbers into clear, cold water for one hour. Drain well 
and place in a granite kettle which has been lined with spinach 
or grape leaves, cover the cucumbers with the leaves, and pour 
over them boiling water, allow to stand in these leaves until thor- 
oughly cold, drain well, and cover with a scalding vinegar solu- 
tion (one pint of vinegar to three pints of water). Cool quickly 
and allow them to Ktan<1 for three or four hours. By so treating 
with grape or spinach leaves a better green color may be obtained 
in the finished product. Place cucumbers in a fresh vinegar bath 
(two pints of vinegar to two pints of waterl . Allow them to stand 
until next morning. 

Spiced Sour Pickle. — If a spiced pickle is desired, allow spices 
in the following proportion to each two-pound lot of cucumbers r 
I ounce of stick cinnamcin (1 oti[)tul8 of the last vinegar sii- 

'/, ounce of cloves liition in wliicli tlip ciiclimlK'rn 

Va ounce of dried Kin^rr roof liave lipcn etaiiclins 

Boil vinegar and spices togeth- r for five minutes, pour iivir 

'Dried giii^fr root, or rute ginger, can lie obtHinrcI from the dniH r-Um: 
TLe wliitc coBtinir on tlio jringer is due to the lime water in wiiirli it lias 
been dipped after drying to prevent insects from eating it. Tlie coating is 
carbonate of lime. Tbis race ginger sbould be (Jroppi'ii into boiling' water 
and drained before adding it to the s.vrup. 



^ — ^ — /TTn 


■'(^^llPfiH 


^^^^^jjjjj^l^H 



IDS SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PHESERVING 

the drained cucumbers, allow to cool, and then pack into jars and 
pour the spiced vinegar over them. 

Spiced Sweet Pickles. — If a sweet pickle is desired, make a 
syrup of the six cupfiils of vinegar solution and one and one-half 
pounds of sugar and cook together with spices for fifteen min- 
utes, pour over the cucumbers, and allow to cool over night. Next 
morning drain the spieed syrup from the cucumbers, boil for ten 
minutes, and again pour over the cucumbers, stand for two hours, 
then boil together with the pickles until they become bright and 
clear {about ten minutes), cool quickly in a covered pan, and 
when cold arrange the cucumbers attractively in jars and pour 
over them the strained spiced syrup. 

Cucumber Sweet MeatB. — An attractive pack may be made 
by slicing the sweet pickled, medium-sized cucumbers before 
packing Cut slices one half inch thick, also cut a small circle 
from the center of eieh slice. Place a raisin or red cherry in the 
center for a garnisli ai range uniformly in the jars, strain the 
synip m which the piikles have been plumping, and pour over 
the cucumbers in the jars, paddle to remove air bubbles, seal and 
process (Iig 111) 

Plain Cucumber Pickle, — ^After washing the brine from the 
cured cucumbers, allow them to stand in fresh, cold water for 
three hours. Drain and cover with a weak solution of vinegar 
and allow them to stand for two or three hours. Put in kettle: 
1 i|UHrt uf vinegar 1 (loiinil of l>roivii mi^iir 

Vi Piipfiil lit wliole blapk pepper 2 tablenpiionfiLlB of clovps 

1 or '1 pmla of red pepper 1 tablespoorifiil of mori' 

Boil for five minutes and pour over the cucumbers which have 
been drained from tlie first vinegar. This amount is for one gallon 
of pickle. Pack into jars, cover with the spiced vinegar, and 
process to seal air-tight. 

Cucumber Slices. — Select medium -sized cucumbers. Peel 
ami slice thinly. To each gallon of slices sprinkle one cup of salt. 
Let stand for twelve hours; drain out the salt water; drop slices 
into glass jars, cover with pure, cold cider vinegar, seal and 
proces.s in water-bath for fifteen minutes at 180° Fahrenheit 
(simmering). 



PICKLING 



199 



Spiced Cucumber Salad. — 

Vegetables 
5 pounds of sliced cucumbers 

(about 2 dozen) 
1/2 cupful of chopped onion 
2 cupfuls of sweet red pepper 

( chopped ) 
1 cupful of sweet green pepper 

(chopped) 



Spiced vinegar 

I quart of vinegar 

y^ cupful of sugar 

1 tablespoonful each of salt, 
powdered ginger, and mus- 
tard seed 

1 tablespoonful each of whole 
pepper, celery seed, cloves, 
cinnamon, and allspice 



Mix the cucumber and onion and sprinkle alternate layers 
with salt, using three-quarter cupful for this lot. Let stand over 
night. Put peppers in brine (one cupful of salt to one gallon of 
water) over night. Next morning drain vegetables and freshen 
for one to two hours in clear, cold water. 

Put all whole spices in cheesecloth bag, except the celery seed 
and mustard seed, which are put in loose. Add spices to the 
vinegar and boil for five minutes. Drain the vegetables well and 
pour the hot spiced vinegar over them. Let stand twenty-four 
hours. Pack, distributing the pepper well and flattening some of 
the cucumber slices against the face of each jar. Fill jars with 
same vinegar and paddle well to remove all bubbles. Qamish 
with strips of red pepper or pieces of spice. Process pint jars for 
fifteen minutes at 180° Fahrenheit (simmering). 

Sweet Pickled Cucumbers and Red Peppers. — 



12 sound cucumbers 
8 swept red pej)porrt 
1 cupful of ])rown sugar 
I teaHpoonful of salt 
1 pint of vinegar 



1 teaspoonful of black pepper 

1 teaspoonful of celery salt 

1 teaspoonful of ground cloves 

1 teaspoonful of allspice 



(Jut the cucumbers in slices one inch thick. Remove the seed 
sacks from the peppers, and cut peppers lengthwise in strips one 
inch wide. Place alternate layers of each in a preserving kettle. 
Sprinkle one-half cupful of salt over them, cover with cold water, 
and let stand four hours. Strain and wash thoroughly in cold 
water to remove the brine ; now put the cucumbers and peppers 
back into the preserving kettle, mix together the sugar and sea- 
sonings, add to pickle mixture with vinegar, and cover and cook 



200 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PREBERVINQ 

until tender, stirring slowly and often. It will take twenty to 
thirty minutes. Pack into jars and process as for spiced cucum- 
ber salad. 



Rummage Pickle. — 
S quarts of f^reen tomatoes 

1 quart of ripe tomatoes 

2 bunches of celery 

4 medium-sized onions 



4 tahteapoonfuls of salt 

1 quart of vine^jar 

1 pound of brown Buprar 

1 tablespoontul of mustard 

1 tnhlespoonful of <-. 

1 smalt hot red pepiier 



2 sweet green peppers 

2 sweet red peppers 

I quart of small groen cuei 

Put the vegptablos tliroiipli a food chopper, sprinkle with one- 
half cupful of salt, and allow to stand over nipht. Drain well 
the next morning and mix thoroughly with all ingredients. Allow 




Fia. lis. — PtcpintEonof vccMablea [or miitd pickln. 

to stand fur from four to five hours. I'aek into jars, proi:es.s, 
seal. 

MIXED I'ICKLES 

Mixed Pickles. — 

3 larife liuads of vabliafi^ 1 ]i(i'k ot ^ecn tomatoes 

1 quart of vinegar 1 dozen medium -siiicd oniui 

2 pounds of BUgnr 2 dosen encumbers 

'^ ounce eatli ot cTovob, ciuna- 1 doicn green pe|ipcrs 









PJCKLING 801 

Chop them separately and very fine. Mix all together and put 
in alternate lajers of the mixture and salt. Let Btand over night. 
Then squeeze dry and cover with cold vin^ar. Ijet it stand 
twenty-four hours and squeeze as before. Mix vinegar with 
spices, add sugar, boil for five minutes, and pour over the chopped 
vegetable. Allow to stand for several hours. Pack in jars, gar- 
nish with strips of red pepper, cover with the spiced vinegar, and 
process (Figs. 112 and 113). 



Green Tomato Pickle.— 
1 gallon of green tuniatoea 
Vj dozen large oniuna 
3 cupfula of brown sugar 
Vj lemon 



] tablespoon fill of whole riove* 

1 tableapoonful of allepiire 

1 tablespoon fill of celery seed 

(crushed) 
1 tablenpoonfut of mustard seed 
1 tablespounfut of jfround iiiu«- 

Urd 



3 pods n( red pepper 

3 cupfuls of vjnegar 

1 tablespoonful of whole black 
pepper 

Slice the tomatoes and onions thin. Sprinkle over them one- 
half cupful of salt and let stand over night in a crock or enamel 
vessel. Tie the pepper, cloves, allspice, and celery seed in a cheese- 
cloth bag. Slice the lemon and chop two pepper pods very fine. 
Drain the tomato and onion well. Add all seasoning except one 
pepper pod to the vinegar, then add the tomato and onion. Cook 
for one-half hour, stirring gently at intervals to prevent burning. 
Ilemove spice-bag to prevent darkening product. Pack in pint 
jars and garnish with slender strips of the red pepper, placing 
them vertically on the opposite sides of each jar. Process for 
fifteen minutes. 



Mustard Pickle.— 



[lint of ivliole 



mall < 



1 pint of »lice4l cupumbers 

1 ]iint uf small whole onions 

I cupful of string beans 

:i sweet green pejipera 

.1 HHcet red pepper* 

1 pint uf green fig tomatoes o 

1 pint of caulillower 



Dresdns 
1 quart of vinegar 
4 tablespoon fu Is of flour 
1 cupful of brown sugar 
3 tablespoonfuls of powdered 

mustard 
'^ tablespoonful of turmeric 
1 teanpoonful of eelery seed 
(crushed) 



202 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESKRVING 




Fia. 113.— A fancy pack of mlieil picklcg. 



PICKLTNa 203 

Cut all ve^tables before measuring — toniatot-s.into halves, 
cueumbcrs into slices, string beans into one and one-half inch 
lengths, diagonally or on the bias, and chop peppers. All vege- 
tables should be tender, and the whole eueniiibers not longer than 
two and oue-half inches. 

Put all vegetables into brine over night, then freshen in clear 







water for two hours. Let these vegetables stand in liquor of one- 
half vinegar and one-lialf water for fifteen minutes, and then 
scald in same li<iuor. 

To make mustard dressing, rnb all the dry ingn-dienfs togetlier 
until smooth, then add the hot vinegar slowly, stirring to make 
smooth paNtc. f'nok over pan of water, stirring carefully, nntil 



g04 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND FRESERVINQ 

the sauce thickens. Then drain the vegetables thoroughly and 
pour the mustard dressing over them while hot. Mix well and 
pack into jars. Process pint jars for twenty minutes at 180° 
Fahrenheit (simmering) (Fig. 114). 



Dixie Relish.— 

1 quart of chopped cabbage 
1 pint of chopped white onion 
I pint of chopped aweet red 

pepp«r 
1 pint of chopped Bweet Rreen 

pepper 
T) tableHpoonfiils of salt 



infuU 



muBtard 



4 tablCHpoc 

2 tables poonful 8 of eelevy need 

( crushed ) 
% cupful of eii^iar 
1 quart of cider vinegar 



Soak the pepper in brine (one cupful of salt to one gallon of 
water) for twenty-four hours. Freshen in clear, cold water for 
one or two hours. Drain well, remove seeds and coarse white sec- 




tions. Chop separately, and measure the chopped cabbage, pep- 
pers, and onions before mixing. Add spices, sugar, and vinegar. 
Let stand over night covered in a crock or enamelled vessel. Pack 
in small sterilized jars (Fig. 115). 

When ready to pack, drain the vinegar off the relish in order 



PICKLING 



205 



that the jar may be well packed. Pack the relish in the jars, 
pressing it carefully ; then pour over it the vinegar which was 
drained off. Paddle the jar thoroughly, to get every bubble out, 
and allow the vinegar to displace all air spaces. Garnish each 
jar with two slender strips of red pepper. Pface these strips ver- 
tically on the seams in the jar on opposite sides. Cap, clamp, and 
process for fifteen minutes at 180° Fahrenheit (simmering). 

Pepper Relish. — Take one dozen sweet green peppers and 
one dozen sweet red peppers, and add three large onions, chopped 
fine. Cover with boiling water and let stand ten minutes, drain, 
cover again, and let come to a boil. Then let stand again. Drain 
dry and add three tablespoon fuls of salt, two pints of vinegar, 
and two cups of granulated sugar. Cook fifteen minutes and pack 
in jars. 



Com Relish. — 

1 dozen ears of corn 
1 head of cabbage 
3 sweet red peppers 
3 sweet green peppers 
1 quart of vinegar 



1 cupful of sugar 

2 tablespoonfuls of mustard 
1 tablespoonful of salt 

1 tablespoonful of celery salt 



Blanch corn for two minutes and drop into a cold bath for a 
few seconds before cutting from cob. Cook all together for 
twenty minutes. Pack into sterilized jars, seal, and process. 



Uncooked Tomato Relish. — 

14 peck of ripe tomatoes 

1 quart of cider vinegar 

green poppers 

sweet red peppers 

4 medium-sized onions 

Vj cupful of chopped cabbage 



2 teaspoon fuls of celery seed 
y2 teaspoonful of red pepper 
1 tcaspoonful of ground cloves 
4 teaspoonfuls of mustard seed 

(yellow) 
V2 cupful of salt 
1 cupful of sugar 



Scald and peel tomatoes, chop all ingredients fine, add season- 
ings, and mix well. Add the vinegar and allow to stand over 
night. Next morning pack cold into small sterilized jars, seal, and 
process. 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



Sweet Pepper Chow-chow. — 

3 ppcks of Bweet red peppers 
1 cupful of grated horaeradiib 
5 tableBpoonfuls of salt 

4 ounces of mustard seed 
■/2 tablespoonful of black pepper 
3 tcaspoonfuls of cinnamon 
1 -gallon of (GO'grain) vinegar 



Vj peck of onionit 
3 cupfuls of sugar 
3 ounces of celery seed 

(crushed) 
1 teaspoonful of cloven 

1 teaspoonful of allspice 

2 teaspoonfulsof ground ginger 

Sixty-graiu vinegar is a commercial term for expressing the 
acidity of the vinegar. Its equivalent, expressed in percentage, 
would be (J per cent acetic acid. 

Chop peppers and onions, mix all ingredients, and cook over a 
alow fire for three hours. This quantity will fill fifteen pint jars. 
This relish can be improved by adding tabasco sauce to suit the 
taste, 

CHUTNBYS 

Hot Swerln to Serve irith Curries, Cold Meats, fiaiisuye, and Steirx 
B. S. Chutney. — This chutney is packed in red and yellow 
bands in the jai-s. These colors represent the banner of Spain, 
and for this reason it is called Banner Spain or B. S. Chutney. 



ReJ pnrl 
2 pounds of swei't Spanish Pi- 
miento or 2 No. 1 cans of Pi- 

1 iHiiind of Kiigar 
.Iiiice of 4 Ipinons 

2 liot peppers 



1 pint of amatl yellow fig toma- 
toes (preserved) or 
I pint of gingered watt'rmelon 

1 pint of gingered chayote 
sweet pickle 



Red Part. — Peel the peppers according to the inst'-uctions 
given for canninff. Chop sweet and hot peppers together, add 
sugar and lemon juice, and let stand in an enamelled vessel or 
crock for twelve hours. Drain off the liquor and allow it to sim- 
mer for ten minutes. Pour it over the peppers again and let stand 
for four hours. Simmer the liquor again for fifteen minutes, 
allowing the peppers to remain in while simmering. 

Yellow Part. — Use one pint of preserved yellow tomatoes, 
one pint of chopped gingered watermelon rind, or cue pint of 
chayote sweet pickle. Tbe preserved yellow tomatoes should be 



PICKLING 



207 



kept as nearly whole as possible. If the gingered watermelon rind 
or chayote is used it should be chopped or cut into small, uniform 
pieces that will pack easily. 

A ten-ounce, vase-shaped hermetic jar is an attractive package 
for this product. In packing, place the heavier color — red — at the 
bottom in a one-inch layer ; then place a one-inch layer of yellow. 
Continue in this manner until the jar is neatly filled. Combine 
the liquors and boil five minutes, strain, and pour it over the con- 
tents. Paddle to remove air bubbles. Cap, clamp, and process 
for ten minutes. 

The small yellow fig tomato used in the chutney recipe is the 
variety which may be used for green tomato pickle and whole 
ripe-tomato preserves. 



Apple Chutney. — 

1 pound of green sour apples 
1 pound of button onions 
1 pound of raisins 
1 pound of soft brown sugar 
1 quart of cider vinegar 
1 clove of garlic 



2 ounces of race ginger root 
4 ounces of Chile peppers (or 

any hot peppers) 
8 ounces of salt 
1 tablespoonful of celery seed 

(crualied) 



Put the onions and salt and one cup of water in a bowl and 
cover. Renew this bath each morning for two days. 

Pare, core, and slice the apples, soak with the other ingredients 
in a pint of cider vinegar for two days, add onions, and put 
through a food chopper. Combine with another pint of vinegar 
and boil until the apples are tender. Pack in small jars, seal, 
and process. 

MANGOES 

Stuffed Pepper Mango. — Mango peppers are mild, sweet, 
yellow, and waxy in appearance. They are highly esteemed for 
pickling. Soak sweet peppers in brine (one cupful of salt to one 
gallon of water) for twenty-four hours. When ready to stuff, 
take from brine, rinse in fresh w^ater, carefully cut a circle oflf the 
top of each pepper, and save same, to be placed on peppers after 
stuffing. Remove the seeds and white sections. Soak in clear, 
cold water for one or two hours. Drain carefully. Stuff with 



208 SUCCESSFUL CASSIXG AST) PRESERVIXG 

Dixie reliBh (p. 204), Iwing careful not to press it in too 
tiglitly. Place top on the pepper and make secure by one or two 
frtitches or by pinning cap in place with two or three wooden 
ttwthpicks. Pack cs many KtuiTed peppers as can be placed in 
the jar without crusliing. Then fill the jar to overflowing with a 
spiced vinegar. Process for fifteen minutes in quart jars. 
Spiced Vinegar. — 

Vi gallon of vinegar 1% tBhlcspoonlulx nf nxiBtan] 

Vi mpful of i^Txt^d liorseradigh seed 

1% tablespoonfulN of celery I tables poonful of «alt 

seed (cniihed) 1 tableepoonful of einnaninn 
1 cupful of siiKar 

Cloves, nutmeg, and grated onion may be added if desired. 
Green Mango Pickles. — I'se tiny green nutmeg cantaloupes 
and cure in brine as for cucumbers. When cured, soak the man- 
goes in cold water for two days; then scald in kettle lined with 
spinach or grape leaves. Cool, drain, and boil for fifteen minutes 
in weak vinegar. Drain and cover them with the second spiced 
vinegar for a week. After that, take the seed from them and fill 
them with the following Kpices : 

1 pound of (linser, ioaked in I ouncp of cdpry seed 

lirine a day nr two, until twft (tnislied) 

enuiiKli to Hiice 1 ounce of mace 

1 ounce of groimil blark pepiier '/^ ounce of cloveg 

of Bllnpice 1 cupful of );rnt<il horHeradisb 



y^ ounce of tnrmerie 4 ounces of wbitr nuiMard need 

14 pound of garlic, soaked for 4 ouneei of ycliiiw muKliird seed 

a day or two in brine, then 

A pint of chopped sweet pickles or preserved watermelon rind 
will improve the flavor and texture of this mixtine for the filling. 

Bruise all the spices and mix with one teacupful of salad oil. 
To eadi mango add one teaspooiiful of brown sugjir. This mix- 
ture will fill four dozen mangoes, having chopped up some of the 
broken ones to mix with the filling. Tie them or pin together with 
wooden toothpicks, pack in jars, and cover with sweet vinetrar, 
allowing one pound of brown sugar for each pint of the spiced 
viui'gar in which the melons soaked. Real and procww. 



PICKLING 209 

Spiced Cucumber Mango. — Select large cucumbers and pre- 
pare them as for spiced cucumbers, and allow them to stand for 
about a week. Slice a cap from the stem end and scoop out the 
center of the pickle, fill with Dixie relish (p. 204), replace the 
cap, and fasten with wooden toothpicks. Pack into jars, cover 
with spiced vinegar (p. 208), seal, and process. 

Sweet Mango. — Large sweet pickles may be capped, scooped 
out, and filled with the following mixture : 

1 cupful of preserved citron or % cupful of preserved oranjje 

watermelon rind and f»rapefruit peel 

14 cupful of candied cherries V4 cupful of conserved ginger 

Fasten the cap in place, pack in jars, garnish with candied red 
cherries or orange-peel, cover with spiced syrup, seal, and process. 
This makes a delicious sweet mango. 

KETCHUP 

Tomato Ketchup. — Select red-ripe tomatoes. The extra 
juice, small and broken fruit, which will not do for canning, may 
be used, if they are sound red. Any green or yellowish parts of 
fruit will make a ketchup inferior in flavor and color, and not 
good for market. Use whole spices tied loosely in a bag while 
cooking, and remove before bottling to prevent darkening the 
product caused by ground spices. This does not apply to red 
pepper, which helps to give a bright-red color. The pulp of sweet 
Spanish pepper or the ground Hungarian paprika may also be 
used to give color and flavor. Remove seeds from sweet red pep- 
per, chop, and add one cupful of this pepper and two medium- 
sized onions to one gallon of tomatoes before cooking. 

Cook the tomatoes thoroughly, put through a colander or sieve, 
saving all pulp, and measure. For every gallon of pulp use the 
following : 

2 tableapoonfuls of salt 1 level tablespoonful each of 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar whole allspice, cloves, cin- 

1 tablespoonful of mustard namon, and pepper 

(powdered) 2 small red poppers, sliced and 

1 pint of good cider vinegar seeds removed 

14 



210 



SUCCESSFUL. CANNING AND PR£SERVINO 



After putting tomatoeB through colander, add ground spifies 
and spice-bag, and cook for one and one-half hours, or until nearly 
thick enough, then add vinegar and cook until thick. Rapid cook- 
ing (being careful not to scorch the ketchup) will give a better 
color than slow cooking. The finiahed product should have a fine, 
bright-red color. 

Pour the ketchup at once into hot sterilized bottles. If any 
quantity is made for sale, set the hot bottles at once into a vessel 
of hot water, having a rack or false bottom in it to prevent break- 
age, put the cork stoppers in loosely, and process at boiling-point 
for thirty minutes. Drive the corks in tightly, and when cool 
dip mouth of bottle into melted paraffin, or cover stopper with 
sealing wax. 

Recipe for making sealing wax wus given on page 101. 

English Mushroom Ketchup (Nice for Soups and Sauces). — 



1 pint of vine^r 

20 polindii of m II dli rooms 

1 pound of salt 

To eai^li quart of liijuur add 1 

uunoc of IjrutBpd or ground 

ginger 
Vi nntini";; 



1 tea it|>oon fill of lioraeradisli 

^k ounce of c-lovoa 

•/. oun<^>of alUpio! 

I ttaHpoonfill of whole pepper 

1 clove of frarlic 



Run mushrooms through food chopper, mix salt through them, 
and let stand for twelve hours, then drain. To the liquor add all 
ingrcdieutH, boil slowly two hours, add vinegar, bottle, procj-ss, 
and seal. 



Grape Ketchup. — 

4 pounds of grapcg 

2 tal>1eiii>oonfulB of ci 

1 tal>le)tpoon eacli of cloves and 



% tcaspoonful of cayenne pe|>- 

per, if desired 
1 cupful of vinegar 
1 teaspoonful of salt 
IV2 poundii of sugar 



Wash and stem the grapes, and steam them over water until 
soft. Put through a colander. Add the spices, sugar, salt, and 
vinegar and let simmer for fifteen minutes. Bottle and seal. Use 



PICKUNG 



211 



whole spices tied in a cloth while cooking and remove before bot- 
tling. This will give a better color than when ground spices are 
used. 

Cranberry Ketchup. — 

5 pounds of cranberries 3 tablespoonfuls of cinnamon 

1 pint of vincji^ar V2 tablespoonful of ground 

2 pounds of brown sugar cloves 

yii tablespoonful of paprika % tablespoonful of salt 

Cook the cranberries and vinegar until the berries burst, press 
through a sieve, add other ingredients, and let simmer until thick, 
process fifteen minutes at 180° Fahrenheit (simmering), cork, 
and seal. 



Pimiento Ketchup. — 

6 pounds of ripe, roasted, and 

peeled piniientos 
2 tablespoonfuls of salt 
2 pounds of sugar 



2 tablespoonfuls of powdered 

ginger 
2 tablespoonfuls of powdered 

cinnamon 
1 quart of vinegar 



Roast and peel the pimientos as for canning. Remove stem 
seeds, weigh, and pass through a food chopper. Rub spices 
together, add sugar, and mix well with the pepper pulp. Heat 
thoroughly and add the vinegar slowly. Cook all together until 
smooth and of the proper consistency. Pour hot into sterilized 
bottles, cork or cap, and seal. If the bottles of ketchup are to be 
shipped, sterilize them in a hot-water bath for thirty minutes at 
180° Fahrenheit (simmering), and cork or seal immediately. 



SAUCES 

Chile Sauce. — 

1 gallon of cliopped ripe toma- 
toes 

^ cupful of chopped white 
onions 

Vg cupful of chopped sweet 
green peppers 

Ms cupful of chopped sweet red 
peppers 

^ cupful of brown sugar 



2 tablespoonfuls of ginger 
1 tablespoonful of cinnamon 
1 tablespoonful of mustard 
1 nutmeg (grated) 
1 quart of vinegar 
% cupful of salt 
% teaspoon ful of cayenne pep- 
per 



JIl (!i;cr.KftSn,'L dSHEIXO iXD PEESERVUfC 

Hut! IV,!; ;kll r^.'r inarT*'ii*ritii* »rx«wpt ;iie via^ear Viis^.i£F for no 
boon '>r 'ifjtil w>fr an'l ^^'ftun. Add vineesr aiid siakcnrr for ooe 
bMjr, -Stir fre'iu^fitly. I>jttl»; sd<1 k^I vbile ho'.. 

Pepper Sauce. — Wuh mull cherry- or Chile r«l acd sretrs 
lif:fiff.nt. f/ai:k int'j lyittltst. "^j^r with evrf cidi^r vin-^r asd eork_ 
It wiJI U r*ra/|y f».r i»«r within a few days. As the aan« is osei 
mhn: virifgur may !»*; afldM] to the fjeppen; from time to time. 

Tabasco Sauce, — 

t ijinvri r»l tal>a.-'''> or (tiile 'j ciiplul u( ip.nd tincsar 

(<"j.(»rfl B f-iov* of garlk 

|5<>JI tlic tiiii'ly i-ho|i[iei| imrl'ii; and peppera uutil tender, drain, 
nih tlir'iiiifh a Mit-v. mni add to thf paste enou^ spi'.-ed viii>-gar 
U> uihki- it 'if a (-namy (riiriijst<;jn;y. Ilottle and seal. Oniun may 
Ik- ii>.»'d in [da'" 'if ifarlji- if 'I'rsin-d. t'se spirr'-d vinepar. Recipe 
(fivn ";i pair'! il'lH. 
Tomato Paste.— 

I '(iiHrt til ttili-k I'ltiialii fillip '■. Iraiipoiindil of Ealt 

I -li iF uriinn ' i^ inflif^ in I (fa<ipoonfi]l ci papfika 

'li«f>ii't(-rj 1 tsblmpoonful of mixed spires 

Mix iirii- taM'-siKionfiil of Kpi(-eH atxiut as follows: One-half 
t(iaH|tiHtnfnl r-Hcli of nniHtard neitd, ddvcs, cinnamon, crushed 

i:i-\i\ry M I, and hay leaf, oin'-rpiartcr Uraspoonful of whole black 

I»r-|iiii-r. and one Miirijf of maw. 

Til- H\>m- in checHccloth and co«ik with tomato pulp in a pan 
nviT water nritil lliick enonfih to hold the shape of a spoon when 
n Hpoonfid of it in ili|i|ii-ii nnl. I'ack hot into Nrnall sterilized jars 
or (Nil No. 1 cariH, |»roi-c>i.s fifteen minutes at hoilinp. 

I'HKHicKViNo VK(iCT.\nr,K>< ny kkkmentathjn ' 
The [iri'HiTviiij; of f(HMi |>roihi('.tH hy furnientation lias been 
prui'lii-ei! for i-i-nlniii-M. In Kuropi' many fiTincntcd suhstanees 

im nirnon artielcM of food. In Ihc I'niled States, howcviT, 

jiiikh's and Miiiii'rdtnnil arc the only foo^ls commonly prepared 
'Till' ri'i'i|ii' fiir prrniTviriR ciirunilKTH, rliayot™, Wetn, and BtrinR bi'ar^ 
liy frriiii-nliilicin uiik tiintriliiitiil by Dr. I.. A. Itniind. Diiroau of Clipmifitry, 
lh>pHrtm(>iit »r AKrli'iiltiirr, 



PICKLING 213 

in this manner. A number of vegetables which are commonly 
preserved by canning can be fermented and kept indefinitely. 
Whenever it is difficult to obtain tin cans and glass jars, fer- 
mentation is the most feasible method of preserving many food 
products. The following procedure is recommended: 

Cucumbers, Chayotes, Beets, and String Beans.*-^Cucum- 
bers and chayotes may be satisfactorily fermented by the fol- 
lowing method: Wash the fruit, if necessary, and pack into a 
clean, water-tight barrel, keg, or crock. On the bottom of the 
barrel place a layer of dill and a handful of mixed spice. When 
half full add another layer of dill and another handful of spice. 
When the barrel is full, add more dill and spice. If a keg or 
crock is used, the amount of dill and spice can be reduced in 
proportion to the size of thj re:eptacle. When nearly full, 
cover with cabbage or spinach leaves and a board cover weighted 
with stone. Make a brine by adding one pound of salt to ten 
quarts of water. To each fifteen quarts of brine so made add 
one quart of vinegar. Add sufficient brine to cover the material 
and allow to ferment. Th:^ strini^s should be removed from 
string beans before fermentation. In case of beets and string 
beans, also, if they are to be served like fresh string beans, 
the addition of spice is not necessary. Beets, of course, re- 
quire careful washing to remove all dirt before ])rining. When 
the acid test with litmus paper is obtained, seal the brine 
air-tight. 

Dill Pickles. — Dill pickles are made from fresh or salted 
cucumbers (the former are choicer, but th(» latter have better 
keeping qualities). Employ pickled dill seed or herb '* and *'dill 
spice,'' composed of allspice, black pepper, coriander seed, and 
bay leaves, in addition to the brine. 

Soak 100 cucumbers in a 30-degree brine until the brine will 
give an acid test with litmus paper. Drain and arrange in 
layers in a crock, putting in a layer of cherry or grape leaves 



•Dill is an herb of the parsley family, grown chiefly for its aromatic, 
pungent seeds, whicli are employed in the manufacture of sauces, pickles, etc. 



I.. ^~"~>**a t*ti(-imrmt 



mimwmmmamm 



214 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

first, then the cucumbers, then a few cloves, the dill, a few small 
pieces of red pepper, and then the leaves. Continue until the 
crock is full. Cover with the brine which was drained off and 
to which have been added one-half cupful of mustard seed, one- 
half cupful of horseradish and one-half cupful of salt. Cover 
with a light weight and seal air-tight for winter use. 

Brining Cauliflower. — ^A surplus crop of cauliflower can be 
brined and used in mixed pickles later in the year when other 
vegetables mature. 

The * * Rice ' ' heads of cauliflower are heavier than the smoother 
heads, and are not so fine for the market, but they are very good 
for pickling. Plain tight barrels or kegs may be used. * * Second- 
hand" charred barrels are very satisfactory. Be sure barrels 
are clean before filling with the cauliflower. 

All outer leaves should be removed, and the stump and heads 
should be put in whole, if possible. Pack cauliflower heads in 
barrels until two-thirds full, and fill barrel with brine 
which tests 40° with a salometer. Head the barrels and bore a 
small hole (one-half inch to three-quarters inch) in the 
top and fill the barrel to overflowing with brine through this 
hole. A little brine has to be added from time to time to take 
care of any leakage. Turn barrel at end of each week for six 
weeks. To do this, bung hole up tightly and turn baiTels upside 
down so the salt which has settled at bottom will be equally 
distributed again. Watch for leakage and be sure to keep cauli- 
flower well covered with brine. 

After two months the cauliflower should be repacked. Skim 
the brine, using a skimming ladle. Dip out the cauliflower and 
repack fairly tight in a clean barrel which has been scalded. 
Cover with brine testing 40° with salometer. If an instrument 
is not at hand for testing the brine, use one pound of salt to 
each gallon of water (one pint of salt to eight pints of water). 
Bung up, fill top with water to take care of leakage, and allow 
to stand about fivcmonths or until ready to use. 

The Hollanders commence with a 30-degree brine and finish 
with a 35-degree brine. They cure in casks only, and their 
cauliflower has a better flavor than the domestic, because the 



PICKLING 215 

brine is kept so low that they get a lactic acid cure. The same 
principle is followed in the cure of genuine dill pickle. 

Sauer-kraut or " Crout." — ^Use one to three quarts of salt to 
twenty gallons of shredded slaw or cabbage, or three pounds of 
salt to each one hundred pounds of shredded cabbage will give 
a good flavor to the resulting kraut. Remove outside leaves and 
the hard core of cabbage. Shred the rest finely. Line the keg 
with the larger leaves on the bottom and sides as you fill it. Put 
in a three-inch layer of shredded cabbage and sprinkle with four 
or five tablespoonfuls of salt. Continue to repeat the process, 
lining barrel with the large leaves. Pound it all down well until 
the cask is full and covered with the brine. The salt soon ex- 
tracts a considerable amount of juice from the cabbage, and this 
brine should rise above the slaw. Cover with the large leaves 
and a board cover to fit inside the cask. Weight this cover down 
with heavy weights so it will keep the cover level. Care should 
be taken not to use lime or sandstone for weights, for the acid 
produced by fermentation attacks the lime and destroys the 
keeping quality of the brine. It is necessary that the cabbage 
be entirely covered with brine at all times. Keep in a cool, dry 
cellar for three weeks to a month. Remove the scum and see 
that it is well covered with juice. When the weather is warm 
the kraut will cure in sixteen to eighteen days, when it is ready 
for use or for canning. 

It may be packed in No. 3 cans and covered with boiling 
water. Cap, exhaust five minutes, tip, and process thirty minutes 
in a hot- water bath at 212*^ Fahrenheit. 

Sauer-kraut is usually made in the fall for winter use. It 
may be eaten raw, fried, boiled with pork with onions added, or 
with Wienerwurst sausage and browned in oven, or cooked with 
spare-ribs. 

Brining Onions.— Onions may be cured by the first method 
given for brining cucumbers in a 45-degree brine (p. 192). When 
the liquid gives an acid test the jars or crocks should be sealed 
from the air. The onions will keep several months by this 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 




PICKLING 217 

method, and may be used in mixed pickles later, or spiced and 
put in vinegar (Fig. 116). 

Pickled Onions. — Select small white onions and sort into 
two sizes, one-half inch diameter in one and three-fourths inch 
in other. Peel, cover with fresh water, and let stand for two 
days, changing tjie water on second day. Wash well and put 
into brine for four days, changing brine at end of second day. 
Take out of brine and put into boiling water. Let stand for 
ten minutes, then put into cold water for two hours. Drain, and 
pack into jars, putting in a few small red peppers, and garnish- 
ing with sprigs of mace. Pill jars to overflowing with spiced 
vinegar, made previously, as below, and allowed to stand for a 
few days with spice-bags left in it. Process as for pickles. 

Spiced Vinegar for Pickled Onions. — 

V2 jrallou of vine;j:ar 1*4 tahlespoonfuls of mustard 

ly^t tal)le8[)oonfuls of cflery need 

®®*^ .. , 1 ta')le»poonfiil of salt 

% cupful of ;^ratc'd horseradish 

1 cupful of HU<rar ^ tahlespoonful of cinnamon 

Cloves, nutmeg, and grated onion may be added if desired. 

Pickling Olives.® — In California, Arizona, and other states 
where olives can be grown successfully many housewives are 
interested in pickling them by household methods for home use. 

The two varieties which have given the best results in home 
pickling are the Mission and Manzanillo. The Mission holds its 
color well while being pickled, and with reasonable care in the 
extracting process yields a product which is firm and of good 
flavor. The Manzanillo is superior to the Mission in flavor, but 
the fruit is of a finer texture and is prone to soften during 
treatment ; the color of the finished product is not so good as that 
of the Mission. 

The finest pickled green olives come from the south of Spain. 
California and Arizona lead in the marketing of the pickled 
ripe olive. On the Pacific coast the green olive is no longer 
receiving attention. 

• XoTE. — Directions for picklin<{ olives ohtained from Farmers* Bulletin 
2J>(;, 1007, U. S. l>cpartment of Agriculture, by W. W. Skinner. 



218 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

Fruit for pickled green olivea is gathered when it has attained 
full size, but before final ripening begins. It is sorted according 
to size and quality, then washed and placed in a solution of lime 
and potash to remove the bitter taste. 

The olives, either green or ripe, should be picked into pails 
about one-third full of water, to prevent bruising, and sorted 
as to size and ripeness. The fruit is then placed in suitable 
vessels (preferably stone jars, though wooden kegs may be used 
if sterilized so that they are free from mold spores), the water 
poured off, and the fruit covered with a solution made of two 
ounces of soda lye, one ounce of lime, and one ounce of common 
salt to a gallon of water. The solution should be thoroughly 
mixed and allowed to stand an hour before using, and is best if 
made of boiled and cooled water. It should stand about two 
inches above the fruit, and if any of the olives float it is necessary 
to cover them with a lioard and weit^ht. 

The time of the lye treatment varies from three to seven days, 
according to the variety, size, and ripeness of the fnut. The 
solution should be examined daily, and should the sleek, soapy 
feeling peculiar to lye disappear it indicates that the solution 
is exhausted. The old solution should therefore be poured off 
and new solution added. It should also be changed at onee 
should any scum or mold appear. The fruit should be fre- 
quently examined, always sampling the largest olives by cutting 
away a portion with a sharp knife. The progress of the lye 
toward the interior of the fruit is plainly marked by a distinct 
dark ring. AVhen the ring has reached almost but not quite to 
the i)it it is time to remove the lye and commence the washing. 

The lye should now be poured off and water added and 
renewed morning and night. The wash-water should also be 
boiled as a preventative of mold, which is very likely to develop 
at this stage of the pickling process. The fruit should be kept 
in water, as before, with the board and weight, and throughout 
the extraction, washing, and salting the vessel should be closely 
covered. It will require from four to seven days to remove all 
traces of the alkali. "Washing should be continued so long as the 
fruit has the peculiar hot taste due to the presence of lye, and it 



PICKLING 219 

is well to test it with red litmus paper, which will turn blue if a 
trace of the lye remains. If the olives are still bitter after the 
washing has been completed, they should receive a second treat- 
ment with lye, followed by washing. 

When free from lye the olives are ready for pickling. Some 
use brine only or salt and vinegar mixed, others add fennel and 
thyme or coriander and laurel leaves. The fruit is generally 
pickled whole, but when desired to give a stronger pickle savor 
it is marked with incisions to the stone. 

If olives are to be brined, use two ounces of common salt to 
a gallon of water. The brine should be thoroughly boiled, cooled, 
and poured over the olives. The next day this solution should 
be poured off and a solution containing four ounces of salt 
should be used. If the stronger solution is used to begin with, 
the olives will shrivel. The fruit should next be treated with 
an eight-ounce brine, and, if intended to keep for some time, 
finally with a brine containing fourteen ounces of salt to tho 
gallon. A fourteen-ounce brine, however, makes the olives too 
salty to be used without a slight soaking. 

The better method of keeping the finished product is to 
process the olives after adding the eight-ounce brine. Glass 
fruit jars filled with olives and brine, with the covers lightly 
screwed down over the rubbers, are heated to 180° Fahrenheit 
(simmering) for thirty minutes. They should then be removed 
and the covers quickly tightened. By this process the flavor 
of the olive is not injured, and if properly done the fruit will 
keep at least several months without deteriorating. 

A perfect pickled green olive is yellowish gi-een, very firm, 
with pinkish pit and agreeable flavor. Fruit of lesser quality 
is dark in color, with meat soft and mushy, or woody and taste- 
less, these defects being caused either by age or imperfect curing. 

Pickled or salted ripe or black olives are purplish black in 
color, and dark and rather soft in pulp, with a bland flavor 
due to the oil developed in the ripening. They are processed 
in much the same manner as green fruit, as prior to pickling 
they retain the characteristic bitter flavor. Green olives are essen- 
tially a relish. Ripe olives are a wholesome and nutritious food. 



280 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

Plain Mock Olives. — Mock olives may be made for home use 
from unripe plums. The plums, when juat boginninB to ripen, 
but still green, should be pickled ia a 45-degree brine (one 
pound, nine ounces of salt and one gallon of water). The brine 
should be poured, hot, over the fruit and allowed to stand for 
thirty-six hours. It should then be poured off. Place the fruit 
in a new brine and boil for one minute. Drain the plums, 
pack into jars, cover with hot brine. Seal and process pint jars 
for thirty minutes at 212° Fahrenheit. 

Spiced Mock Olives. — One gallon of green plums soaked for 
twenty-four hours in 45-degree brine (one pound, nine ounces 
of salt and one pallon of water). Drain, place into stone jars, 
and pour scaldinp vinegar over them. Next morning; drain off 
this vinegar, add to it two tablespoonfuls of mustard seed, and 
boil for two minutes. Pour, hot, over the filums and allow to 
stand until cold. Pack in bottles, cover with hot strained liquor, 
seal, and process as for plain mock olives. 

Pickled Mushrooms. — Steam wholi' muishrooms, place into 
jars, cover with vinegar, seal, and process as for mock olives. 

FL.WOREn VINEGARS 

Tarragon Vinegar. — Bruise one cupful of Tarragon leaves, 
pour over them one ijuarl of good apple vinegar, and allow to 
stand for from ten to twelve days. After this time strain care- 
fully through a flannel cloth, bottle, and si'al air-tight. 
Celery Vinegar. — 

1 quart of viiie^rar H talilenpuonful!! of cdcry epwl 

I tabkHpoonful ol salt Icruslieil) or 1 quart of 

1 tahleapoonfiil of Hngar t-hoppec] fresli mUtv 

Heat the vinegar, add the seasoning, and pour while hot over 
the celery. Allow to cool, cover tightly, and set aside for from 
twelve to fifteen days. Strain, bottle, and seal. 

Onion Vinegar. — 

I quart of good vinegar 1 tablespooufiil of Halt 

^cupful of clinpped white 1 tablespoonfiil of tiiipar 

Seald the vinegar and spices, pour over the onions, allow to 
stand for two weeks, strain, bottle, and seal. 



PICKLING 221 

Tarragon, celery, and onion vinegar are delicious when used 
in dressings and served with salads. 

Artichoke Pickle. — Scrub and scrape young artichokes, 
plunge them into boiling brine (one-quarter cupful of salt to one 
quart of water) for five minutes. Then put into clear, cold 
water for a few minutes. Drain and cover with a spiced vine- 
gar (p. 208). Let stand over night, and pack in sterilized jars. 
Cover with the spiced vinegar and process small jars in water- 
bath for fifteen minutes and quart jars twenty-five minutes at 
180° Fahrenheit (simmering). 

Pickled Beets. — Cook small beets until tender, slip the skins 
off, pack into jars, cover with spiced vinegar, seal and process 
for thirty minutes at simmering). Beets are better canned in 
water and made into pickle as desired. 

Sweet Pickled Carrots. — Boil young, tender carrots until 
three-fourths done, scrape, cut in thin slices, and pour a boiling 
spiced syrup over them, made by boiling together one quart of 
vinegar, one (juart of sugar, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, 
cloves, and one teaspoonful of mace and allspice. Allow to 
stand over night in this syrup. Next morning boil for five 
minutes, cool quickly, pack into jars, strain syrup over them, 
seal, and process as for all pickles. 

Spiced Green Tomatoes. — 

(i pounds of small whole green 1 tablespoonful of cinnamon 

tomatoes 14 tablespoonful of cloves 

4 pounds of suf?ar 1/2 tablespoonful of allspice 

1 pint of vinegar y^ tablespoonful of mace 

Small green fig or plum tomatoes are suitable for this pickle. 
Scald and \we\. Make a synip of the sugar, vinegar, and spices. 
Drop in the whole fruit and boil until the tomatoes become 
clear, pour all into trays, cool quickly, pack cold into jars, strain 
syrup over them, seal and process. 

Spiced Rhubarb. — Peel and slice one pound of rhubarb. 
Sprinkle over one cupful of sugar, and let stand over night. 
Next morning drain off the syrup, add one-half cupful of sugar, 
and put over the fire. Tie in spice-bag (six whole cloves, three 
whole allspice, a bit of mace, a six-inch stick of cinnamon, and 



222 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

a two-inch piece of ginger root), put into syrup and boil ten 
minutes, skim out spicea, add rbubarb, and cook until clear. 
Seal in small jars. 

SPICED FKUITS 

Spiced Crab Apples. — Choose round crab apples uniform in 
size; do not pare them. Make a spiced syrup by boiling to- 
gether one quart of vinegar, one quart of sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful of cinnamon, cloves, and one teaspocnful of mace and all- 
spice, add erab apples, and heat gently, being careful not to 
burst the fruit. Let stand in syrup over night, pack cold, cover 
with syrup, seal, and process pint jars fifteen minutes at 180° 
Fahrenheit (simmering). 

Pickled Watermelon Rind. — One pound of watermelon rind 
boiled in one quart of salt water (one-quarter cupful of salt to 
one quart of water) for fifteen minutes. Drain well anil dip 
into a cold bath until the flavor of salt is gone. Drain care- 
fully and stand in lime water over night (two ounces of lime to 
one gallon of water). Drain next morning and cook rapidly in 
a syrup made by boiling together one pound of sugar, one pint 
of water, one pint of vinegar, one teaspoonful each of cloves, 
cinnamon, allspice, and one-half teaspoonful of mace. Cook until 
rind becomes clear and transparent. Coo! before packing, proc- 
ess as for other sweet pickles, and seal. 

Cantaloupe Pickle (Sour). — Select under-ripe cantaloupe, 
peel, cut into sections. Place two pounds in stone jar and pour 
over a boiling mixture of one quart of vinegar, one pint of 
water, adding spices tied in spice-bag: 

IVi teaspoon fills of mace tcaspoonfula of cloves 

2 t«BKpoonfii1» of cinnamon I pound of sugar 

Next day pour vinegar off and bring to boil. Add sugar and 
drop in tlie spices and sections of fruit and boil until trans- 
parent. Pack fruit in jars and boil vinegar mixture for fifteen 
minutes longer to make a heavier syrup. Pour it over the fruit, 
cap jars, and process pints for fifteen minutes. 

Cantaloupe Pickle (Sweet). — Soak one and one-half pounds 
of rind for three hours in lime water {two ounces of lime to one 
gallon of water). Drain and soak in fresh water for one hour. 



PICKLING 223 

Make a syrup by boiling together one quart of water and one 
pint of sugar, add well-drained rind, and cook rapidly for thirty 
minutes. Allow to stand over night. Next morning add one 
cupful of sugar, one cupful of vinegar, and spice-bag (one 
tablespoonful each of cinnamon, cloves, and allspice, and one- 
half tablespoon ful of mace). Cook until rind is transparent 
(about one hour). Cool and pack in small jars. Cover with the 
strained syrup and process. 

Sweet Pickled Chayote. — 

2 pounds sliced chayotes i^ ounces of whole cloves 

2 pounds of sugar Vi ounce of dried ginger root 

I ounce of stick cinnamon 

Select half-grown chayotes, a green variety preferred, and 
slice thinly cross-wise. The slices from the smaller end of each 
fruit will make the most attractive pickle. The larger pieces 
may be chopped and used instead of cabbage in Dixie relish 
(p. 204). 

The chayotes must first be cured in a 45-degree brine (about 
one pound, nine ounces of salt to one gallon of water). Place 
the sliced chayotes in a crock, cover them with the brine, and 
weight down with a plate. As soon as the brine around the 
chayotes will give an acid test with litmus paper (that is, will 
turn blue litmus paper pink) the chayotes are ready to be 
pickled. This will require three to five days. 

If not made up into pickle at once it will be necessary to seal 
them air-tight. This can be done by sealing the jar with a 
layer of cheesecloth dipi)ed in melted paraffin over which the lid 
is placed and sealed with strips of cloth which have been dipped 
in melted paraffin. The cured vegetable will keep as long as kept 
air-tight, but the color will not be as good as if finished at once. 

Freshen the brined chayotes by standing in cold water for 
about two hours. Drain and let stand for two or three hours in 
a weak vinegar solution (one cupful of vinegar to three cupfuls 
of water). Place in stronger vinegar solution (one and one-half 
cupfuls of vinegar to one and one-half cupfuls of water) for a 
couple of hours. Then add the sugar and the spices, which are 
tied up in cheesecloth bags, to this solution. Cook the chayotes 



224 SUCCESSFUL CAXXIN'G AND PRESEKVIXO 

in tbis gynip until clear and transparent. Let stand until cold 
or over nigbt in the aynip bo that the slices will phimp. Cut a 
tiny circle from the center of each slice of chayote and garnish 
with circles of sweet red pepper. Pack in jars, pour over the 
strained syrup, and process like other pickles. 

Cucumber rings are sometimes {nriiished and packed in this 
manner. 

Sweet Hckle Figs.— 

S qiuirta of liga 1 qu»rt of sufnr 

1 quart of irater 1 tableipoonful of clo^'e* 

1 pint of Kugar I teaspoonful of at]spic« 

1 pint of vinefcar 1 teaspoonful of niace 
1 tablecpoonful of cinnamon 

First, cook five quarts of figs until tender in about a ;10- 
degree syrup (one quart of water to one pint of su^'ar) . 

When fifpi become tender, add one quart of su^ar, one pint 
of vinegar, one tablespoouful of cinnamon, one tablespoonful of 
cloves, ime tea.spoonful of allspice, and one teaspoonfiil of mace, 
and cook until figs are clear and transparent. Allow them to 
stand in this syrup over nigbt. On the following morninpr pack 
the fruit into jars, cover with syrup. Sterilize pint jars in 
water-bath for fifteen minutes at boiling or thirty minutes at 
ISC^ Fahrenheit (simmering). 

Spiced Currants and Gooseberries. — 

T iHiumis of fruit ^ talilfHtKHiiifulH of cinnniiion 

1 pint of viiii'tjar 2 talili^^iHMinfiilTi of cIovi-a 

.'> jmunds of sllfiar 

Make a syrup of the sii^ar, spices, and vinegar. Cool, add 
the fruit, and cook rapidly for from twenty to twenty-live 
minutes. Pack into jara while hot and seal at once. 

Spiced Grapes. — Pick the grapes from the stem, wash and 
slip the pulp from the skins, steam the pulps over a vessel of 
hot water or in a double boiler until they can be rubbed through 
a coarse sieve to remove the seeds. Combine pulp with skins 
and weigh. To each seven pounds allow the same proportions 
of sugar and spices as for currants and gooseberries given above. 
Cook all together until very thick, pack while hot, and seal at once. 



PICKLING 225 

Damson Plums and Cherries. — These fruits may be spiced 
in the same manner as currants and gooseberries (p. 224). 
The addition of one teaspoonf ul of mace and two teaspoonfuls of 
allspice will improve the flavor. After they are cooked in the 
syrup until tender, lift them out and cook syrup fifteen minutes 
longer, then pour over the fruit and allow to stand until cold. 
Pack, seal, and process pint jars fifteen minutes at 180° Fahren- 
heit (simmering). 

Sweet Pickled Peaches. — 

6 pounds of fruit 4 ounces of stick cinnamon 
3 pounds of sugar 2 ounces of whole cloves 

1 pint of water 1 ounce of ginger 

1 pint of vinegar 

Select firm clingstone peaches. It is better to have them 
under-ripe than over-ripe. Peel by either method given under 
canning peaches (p. 126), and drop at once into a syrup which is 
made by boiling together the sugar and water, and boil for 
fifteen minutes. Cool quickly and allow to stand for from two 
to three hours. Drain off the syrup, put vinegar and spices into 
it, boil for fifteen minutes, then add the peaches and cook to- 
gether for half an hour. Let stand over night. Next morning 
drain off the syrup, boil for twenty minutes, add the peaches, and 
continue cooking for fifteen minutes longer. Cool again and let 
stand for two hours or over night, then boil all together until 
the peaches are clear and tender. Pack peaches cold into jars, 
garnish with snips of stick cinnamon, cover with strained syrup, 
seal, and process (juart jars for twenty minutes at 180° Fahren- 
heit (simmering). 

Spiced Pears. — 

7 pounds of hard pears Vi lemon (rind) 

3% pounds of sugar ^^ ounce of whole cloves 

1 pint of vinegar V2 ounce of whole allspice 

1 ounce of ginger root 2 ounces of stick cinnamon 

Cut pears in half, remove the seeds, and pare. Make a 
syrup of vinegar and sugar, tie the spices in small pieces of 
cheesecloth and add them to the syrup. When this mixture 
begins to simmer, add the pears and lemon rind and bring to the 
boiling-point, cool quickly, and allow to stand over night. The 
15 



236 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRKSERVING 

next morning drain off the syrup from the pears into a poreelaiii- 
lined or agate kettle, bring the syrup to boiling-point and pour 
over the pears, allow to stand over night again. Next day drain 
and heat the syrup as before, repeating this for four or iive con- 
secutive days, then boil the syrup down until it is just enough 
to cover the fruit, add the fruit to the hot syrup and boil for 
thirty minutes, pack the fruit into jars, garnish with snips of 
cinnamon, cover with the syrup, seal, and process for thirty 
minutes at 180" Fahrenheit (simmering). 

The pears may be finished in one day by boiling them in 
the syrup until the fruit is clear; remove the fruit and boil the 
syrup down to 221=^ Fahrenheit, add the fruit, reheat it, and 
finish as above. The fruit is less rich if done in this way. 

yl'KSTIONS 

1. What is meant by " pickling "'T 

2. What i« the secret of pickle-making? 

3. Wliy should some vegetahlea be soaked in salt water until onred and 

othtfrs parboiled in salt water liefore the Havoreil vinegar or ayrup 
in added ? 

4. What strength brine would you use if you were preparing it fur cucnm- 

ber pieklcsF How approximate this if you have nu hydrometer at 

fi. While the plekle is in hrine, why ahollld the cuntainer he covered only 

G. At what istaga in the prqinrntion of pieklea are hacti^riH nsefiiU Ex- 
plain their artioii. How are these in1roaui¥<l into the hriii.-? 

7. What i« the valne of the presence of an arid in the hrineT llo* ean 
yon test for it? 

H. Why should the air W excluded as won us the acid ii foniieil in the 

9. Why is it well to turn the kegs or barrels eontaining pickles in brine? 

10. Why ia a lime liatli sonietimea used! 

11. Why is a soda l>atli sometimes used? 

12. If either hath is used, what must necessarily followT 

13. What is the standard for the finished proiluct! 

14. Give an outline of the preparation of olivea. 



PICKLING 



227 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 



1. Cbawfx)RD, R. F., "Report on the Dutch Brined Vegetable Industry,' 

British Board of Agriculture, 1002. Published by Darling & Son 
London. 8 pence. 

2. "Creole Cook Book," 1014. The Picayune, New Orleans, La. By mail, 

$1.25. 

3. Fox, MiNNiB C, "Blue Grass Cook Book," 1004. Published by Fox 

Duffield & Co., New York City. N. Y. $1.50. 

4. Hoffman and Evans, " The Uses of Spices as Preservatives," article in 

the Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry. Published by 
the American Chemical Society, Easton, Pa. $6 a year. 

5. Keoleian, AiiDASiiER II., "Oriental Cook Book," 1013. Published by 

Sully & Klointcich, New York City, N. Y. $1.25. 
(J. Powell, H. E.. " How to Keep Brine PicklcH," article in the (iowl 
UouHvkrvpinif Maf/azim^ of August, 1014. Published by Good Houfte- 
ki'ppinu Mfujaziii€y 110 Wrst Fortieth Street, New York City, N. Y. 
$1.50 a year. 15 cents a copy. 

7. Raiin, Otto, article on ** Pickling." Published by the Canning Trade, 

lialtimorc, Md. 

8. RiciiAUDSON, Clifford, ** Spices and Condiments," Bulletin No. 13, part 

2, 1887. U. S. Department of Agriculture. Bureau of (^hemistry. 
0. Roi'ND, L. A., and Lang, H. L., " Preserving of Vegetables by Salting 
and Fermentinjr," Farmers' Bulletin, U. S. Department of Agri- 
culture. Washington, D. C, 1017. 

10. Shinklk, Ciiaklks A., " American Commercial Methods of Manufac- 

turing Preserves, Pickles, Canned Goods, etc.," 1012. Published 
by C. A. Shinkle, Menominee. Mich. $10. 

11. Skinner, \V. W., "Pickling Olives and Mock Olives," Farmers' Bul- 

letin No. 200, 1007, U. S. Department of Agriculture (Experiment 
Station Work). Can be procured from the Superintendent of Docu- 
ments, Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C. 5 cents. 



CHAPTER XV 
DRYING FRUITS. VEGETABLES AND HERBS 



The drying of fixHls has been practiced since the beginning 
of civilization. 

Drying is one of Nature's own processes in the drying of 
grains, Buch as wheat, oats, corn, and many other seeds. Nature's 
tnethiiils have been improved by the application of artificial heat, 
which haHtens the process. Thin is used to dry perishable products 
which under natural conditions could not be kept. Modem meth- 
ods of evaporating products afford less opportunity for the 
accumulation of dirt and for fermentation. 

Foods prepared in this way are less bulky and require less 
space for storage than in the natural condition. Fir-st-grade dried 
fruits and vegetables are about as expensive aa the same product 
would be if canned, but they are lighter ia weight, require 
less space ia shipping, and can be packed in less expensive 
containers. 

The tirst commercial products which were put on the market 
were inferior in quality because the packages were not only unsan- 
itary but the products had often been injured by dust and insects. 
This led to a general depreciation in the value of dried foods. 

Insufficient drying is one of the commonest causes of trouble. 
Some laws require that marketable dried fruits shall contain not 
more than 27'/<; per cent of water, and this limit practically elimi- 
nates that particular trouble to great advantage of the industry 
as a whole. If a larger proportion of water remains, the fniit 
tends to discolor, mold, or sour. A bushel nf green apples, for 
example, weighs about fifty pounds, and should make seven or 
eight pounds of white stock, four pounds waste, tlve-sixths of the 
fruit being water. Apples when dried still contain 25 per cent 
of water. 



DRYING FRUITS, \T:GETABLES AND HERBS 229 

The comparative merits of the open-air ** drying" and the 
indoor * ^evaporating " processes hinge entirely upon the matter of 
climate. In California open-air drying is almost universally 
practiced, as the sections where fruit is dried are practically free 
from excessive moisture and rain during the entire drying season. 
In other parts of the United States the evaporating process has 
superseded open-air drying for commercial purposes. The results 
of the evaporating process are obtained in a shorter length of 
time, and the product has better keeping qualities and conse- 
quently commands a higher price than sun-dried fruits from the 
same localities. 

The evaporating process industry in the United States began 
about 1868. It is said that in Wayne County, New York, alone, 
more than 2000 small evaporators are used right in the orchards. 
The dry kiln, which is most in favor now among the larger pack- 
ers, consists of a drying bin with a slat floor built over a furnace. 
The fruit is spread on the floor and dried by the heat rising 
through and around it. 

A type of homemade dry kiln used in some sections of the 
country can be made as follows : Walls of brick or stone are built 
up a foot or two above the ground, with the front end left open 
for a fire door. The size of this kiln depends upon the amount of 
material to be dried. Many farm kilns are four feet wide and 
eight to ten feet long. At the back end a flue is built, and this 
should extend four or five feet above the top of the kiln. Iron 
bars are placed across the top of the structure, and sheet iron or 
tin placed over these. A layer of clay mortar is spread over the 
whole surface to the depth of about two inches. After applying 
the mortar a fire should be started in the furnace to bake the clay. 
The firing should be done with a slow fire, and any cracks formed 
during the baking should be closed up with thin mortar. The 
material to be dried on this type of a kiln is placed on large metal 
trays to the depth of two or three inches. Only a few hours are 
required for the drying process. Most any fruit or vegetable can 
be dried on this type of drier, but those most commonly dried 
are apples, peaches, cherries, and sweet corn. 

A description of the apple driers used for vegetable drying \u 



230 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

Western New York is given in Farmers' Bulletin No. 291, "Evap- 
oration of Apples." Other interesting descriptive matter and 
illustrations may be found in Agricultural Experiment Station 
Bulletin No. 131, by J. S. Colwell, State College of Agriculture, 
Pullman, Wash. The chief use of the kiln evaporator in New 
York, Pennsylvania, Missouri, Virginia, Washington, and Ar- 
kansas is for the drying of apples, and many long-established 
plants had never dried anything else until 1915, during which 
time many evaporators in Monroe aud Wayne counties. New 
York, ran full capacity in drying carrots, cabbage, onions, celery, 
and Irish potatoes for the French War Department. These crops 
when dried were mixed together iinder a certain formula and 
placed in fifteen-pound cans, which were sealed and shipped to 
the allied army, wher^ they were used in making soup and stews 
for the soldiers. 

This great demand for concentrated products has stimulated 
investigations and experimental work in drying foods. The 
Bureau of Chemistry in the T'nited States Department of Agri- 
culture has obtained some most interesting results by the use of 
an electric fan. It nas found that products were dried rapidly 
and retained a good color by the use of the fan. This indicates 
the value of currents of air in drying. In any system of drying 
there needs to be considered the circulation of air as well as the 
application of heat. 

Indoor Drying. — The indoor methods of drying have been 
found necessary in large parts of the I'nited States now on ac- 
count of the moisture present in the atmosphere. The following 
methods of indoor drying are sometimes used commercially: 

1. The fruit is enclosed in a chamber where heated air is cir- 
culated over and through the fruit until 70 to 75 per cent of the 
water is extracted. 

2. Vacuum driers are sometimes used. The evaporation is 
more rapid, but the color of the product is affected. If sulfuriz- 
ing is applied a better color may be preserved. 

3. Hydraulic pressure for certain products has been found 
to he a most effective method, but is not generally used in America. 

French Methods of Vegetable Drying. — The following gives 



DRYING FRUITS, VEGETABLES AND HERBS 231 

two French methods of drying green vegetables, which form the 
basis of a large industry in that country, some experiments with 
which are under way in the United States : 

1. The greens are carefully selected, trimmed, and put into a 
hurdle of coarse linen cloth. This hurdle is set up in a chamber 
which is warmed by means of hot air. The heat circulates through 
pipes, running back and forth through the chamber of the evapo- 
rator, at a temperature of 95^ to 113° Fahrenheit, or 35° to 45° 
Centigrade, being regulated according to the condition of the 
greens. The heat should be raised gradually to prevent a loss of 
flavor and color. Tlie advocates of this process claim that the 
heat is more evenly distributed and the temperature more uni- 
form, avoiding danger of scorching the fruit. 

2. Another operation of drying green vegetables is carried on 
in France most successfully by a gradual pressing while drying 
the product. The volume of greens lessens four-fifths by the use of 
a powerful working hydraulic press. The greens are laid into two 
strong iron boxes wliich are placed at the end of the mounting 
beam of the press and a strong, close-fitting pounder presses 
them. By this process a cabbage head of very great size may be 
reduced to easily fit into a letter envelope ; when again moistened 
and prepared it will almost fill a half-bushel measure. Many 
plants treated by this method will recover their original form and 
color when again soaked in water. Some vegetable mixtures are 
pressed into forms like cakes of chocolate and simply vvrapped 
in a paper or put into tin pails. Dried spinach is packed in tin 
boxes, and a vegetable mixture for soups is sold in small card- 
board boxes. If moisture is kept away from these products they 
will keep any length of time without losing their value. Potatoes, 
carrots, peas, and beans all may be preserved in the same way. 

Sunlight Drying. — The simple method of exposure to sunlight 
was practiced universally until recently. In California and other 
sections, which are free from excessive moisture, open-air drying 
is still extensively employed. The fruit is cleaned, cut, then 
placed cut side up on wooden trays, about three by seven feet in 
size, sterilized with sulfur fumes, and placed in the sunlight 
for five days» or until sufficiently dry. 



232 SLXt'KSKFLL CAXXIX« AXD PltE!>EBVlNG 




Fi'^. 117— DrjiDi tvpl. 




Flo. lis.— A homcBiid* 



DRYING FRUITS, VEGETABLES AND HERBS 233 

It is important to protect drying fruits from the rain, dew, 
dust, and insects. 

Placing it in a screened rack or under glass or mosquito 
netting will protect it from flying insects, and crawling insects 
may be kept away by standing the racks or table legs in pans 
of water (Fig. 117). The drying can also be expedited by a 
proper arrangement of the fruit on the trays. It should always 
be placed in single layers, because piling it up prolongs the dry- 
ing process. Evaporation of the water diminishes the bulk, so 
that later the contents of several trays may be put on one. This 
simplifies the amount of handling. During the first two days 
the pieces of fruit should be turned several times to aid in the 
process of drying. This is especially true of large fruits, such as 
peaches, pears, and apples. Simple devices for drying fruits can 
easily be made. Unless the weather conditions are ideal the 
product dried in the sun is liable to become discolored and moldy. 
This method of drying requires considerable labor. 

DRIKRS OK EVAPORATORS 

Vegetables and fruits can be dried in an oven, in trays or racks 
over the kitchen stove, or in a specially constructed drier. There 
are small driers on the market which give satisfactory results. 
The small cook-stove driers or evaporators are small, oven-like 
structures, usually made of galvanized sheet iron, or of wood and 
galvanized iron. They are of such a size that they can be placed 
en the top of an ordinary wood or coal range or a kerosene stove. 
These driers hold a series of small trays on which fruits or vege- 
tables are placed after being prepared for drying, l^ortable 
outdoor evaporators are especially convenient when it is desired 
to dry as much as ten bushels of fruit or vegetables per day. They 
are usually constructed of wood, except the parts in direct contact 
with the heater. The homemade dry kiln used in some sections of 
the country can be cheaply and easily made (p. 229). 

A Homemade Drier (Fig. 118). — !Make a frame about thirty- 
six inches long and eighteen inches wide, which will hold three 
movable shelves. The frame of the shelves or trays is made of two 
pieces of wood, one inch by eighteen inches, and two pieces, one 



234 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



iDCh by thirty-six inches, aad is covered with white cheesecloth or 
pieces of flour sack which have been washed thoroughly. Place 
these trays about twelve inches apart in the framework of the 
drier. Stretch wire netting or white mosquito netting over the top 
and sides to keep away the fliea and insects. Supports made of 




nails or pieces of metal and placed at the curners of the bottom 
of the frame will permit its being used on the back of the stove 
in damp, cloudy weather. 

A Reflector Drier (Pi^. 119). — Select a small, strong box and 
remove all sides but the bottom and back and replace these with 
pieces of glass. Paint the inside of the bottom and back of the box 



DRYING FRUITS, VEGETABLES AND HERBS 



235 



white. Tbese white surfaces reflect the sunlight, which causes a 
rise of temperature on the inside. This shortens the process of 
drying the fruit. Leave small openings in the bottom of the 
box through which the air passes. Place the fruit or vegetable in 
the box, and do not remove until dried thoroughly. 

Homemade Cook-stove Drier (Fig. 120). — A drier that can 
lie used on a wood or coal range or a kerosene sXnve can be easily 




and cheaply made. Dimensions: Base, 24 X 15 inches; height, 3(i 
inches. A base si.x inches high is made of galvanized sheet iron. 
This base slightly flares toward the bottom and has two small 
openings for ventilation in each of the four sides. On the base 
rests a box-like frame made of one or one and one-half inch 
strips of wood. The two sides arc braced with one and one-quar- 
ter inch strips which serve as cleats on which the trays in the drier 
rest. These are placed at intervals of three inches. The frame 
is covered with tin or galvanized sheet iron. This is tacked to 
the wooden strips of the frame. Thin strips of wood may be used 



236 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

instead of tia or sheet iron. The door is fitted on small hinges 
and fastened with a latch. It opens wide so that the trays can be 
easily removed. The bottom in the drier is made of a piece of 
perforated galvanized sheet iron. Two inches above the bottom 
is placed a solid sheet of galvanized iron which is three inches less 
in length and width than the bottom. This sheet rests on two 
wires fastened in the corners of the drier. This prevents the 
direct heat from coming in contact with the product and serves 
as a radiator to spread the heat more evenly. 

The first tray is placed three inches above the radiator. The 
trays rest on the cleats three inches apart. A drier of the given 
dimensions will hold eight trays. The frame of the tray is 
made of one-inch strips, on which is tacked galvanized screen 
wire, which forms the bottom of the tray. The tray is 21 X 15 
inches, making it three inches less in depth than the drier. The 
lowest tray, when placed in the drier, is even with the front, 
leaving the thn-e-ineh space in the back. The next tray is pushed 
to the back, leaving a three-inch space in the front. The other 
trays alternate in the same way. This permits the hot currents 
of heated air to pass around and over the trays. A ventilator 
opening is left in the top of the drier through which the moist air 
may pass away. 

The principle of construction is that currents of heated air 
pass over the product as well as up through it, gathering the 
nmisture and passing away. The movement of the current of air 
induces a more rapid and uniform drying. The upper trays can 
be sliifted to the lower part of the drier and the lower trays to 
the upper part as drying proceed.s, so as to dry the product uni- 
formly throughout. 

In order to secure the best results of evaporation it is neces- 
sary to run the temperature as high as possible without injury to 
the fruit, and to keep the air in rapid circulation throughout the 
chamber. It is under these conditions that the slight chemical 
changes in perfectly evaporated fruit take place. The albumin, 
instead of being slowly dried, is coagulated and greatly assists in 
the preservation of the fruit with the richness and flavor it 
pcssessed in its natural state. 



DRYING FRUITS, VEGETABLES AND HERBS 237 

It is important to know the temperature of the heat in the 
drier, and this cannot be determined very accurately except by 
using a thermometer. An inexpensive thermometer reading de- 
grees from 100° Fahrenheit to 200° Fahrenheit, or thereabout, 
can be suspended in the drier. If a thermometer is not used the 
greatest care should be given to the regulation of the heat. The 
temperature in the drier rises rather quickly, and the product 
may scorch unless close attention is given. 

DRYING FRUITS 

The dried fruits are not only important foods for the house 
hold, but because they contain valuable food material in concen- 
trated form they are convenient foodstuff for the traveller and 
explorer. 

In very dry climates fruits are usually dried in the sun. 
Most fruits dried in the sun discolor unless especially treated. 
For drying fruits in small quantities for home use the drier 
is more satisfactory. On very hot, dry days fruit may be 
dried in the sun until surface begins to wrinkle, then finished in 
the drier. Only fresh ripe fruits should be used. Ripe fruits dry 
more quickly than unripe and retain a better color. 

The ideal moisture content of dried fruits is about twenty-five 
per cent. The ability to judge accurately as to when the fruit has 
reached the proper condition for removal from drier can only be 
gained by experience. When sufficiently dried it should be so 
dry that it is impossible to press water out of the freshly cut ends 
of the pieces, and will not show any of the natural grain of the 
fruit on being broken and yet not so dry that it will snap or 
crackle. It should be leathery and pliable. 

Before spreading fruit on the trays of the drier line the tray 
with w^rapping paper or cheesecloth. There is a possibility of the 
acid of the fruit acting upon the zinc. After drying, cool quickly, 
as fruit when cooled slowly shrivels and looks unattractive. 

Apples. — It is not advisable to dry early varieties of apples, 
because they lack firmness of texture. The fruit must be carefully 
pared and cored, with all blemishes removed. Sometimes, in 
commercial plants, after the apples are sliced they are subjected 






238 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

to the fumes of burning sulfur to bleach them and to prevent 
further discoloration. This practice is not advisable for home 



Apples are often sliced in rings, one-quarter of an inch thick, 
or they are quartered. The rings dry more quickly than the 
quarters (Fig. 121). Arrange the slices in single layers on the 
trays. Place these in the sun or in an evaporator until the apples 
are dry. If sunlight drying is practiced the apples should be 
brought indoors every night and each morning returned to the 
sun until the apples are dry. Usually this process will require 
three or four days. In the evaporator only four to six hours are 
necessary to dry the- fruit. Have the temperature at 110° Fahren- 
heit to begin with, and raise it gradually to 140° Fahrenheit. The 
fruit shouhl be ko dry that when a handful of slices is pressed 
together firmly into a ball the slices will be springy enough to 
separate at nnce upon being released from the hand. The texture 
of the fruit as it i-s handled should be soft, velvety, and leathery. 
Pack the Nliees neatly into pasteboard boxes which have been lined 
with paraffin paper, or tie in paper sacks and store in tin boxes 
in a dry place to protect from insects and dust. 

Dried apple cores and skins are evaporated separately in the 
_ same way as the fruit. When 

properly cured they possess com- 
mercial value in home and for- 
eign markets for the manufac- 
ture of jellies and vinegars. 

Apricots. — It is necessary to 
start the drying of apricots with 
a higher temperature (130° 
Fahrenheit), because they con- 
tain a high percentage of water. 
After two or three hours turn 
the fruit and lower the heat. 
Continue the process as for 
peaches (p. 240), 

Berries. — Heating the fruits 




Fio. i21. — Slic«i apples D 

carefully in a moderate 



1 for a short while before and after 



DRYING FKL'ITS, VEGETABLES AND HERBS 239 

sunning insures a better product if sunliglit drying is practiced. 
Raspberries. — Black or purple raspberries are best for dry- 
ing. Pick carefully in shallow trays to prevent bruising. Sort, 





FiQ. 123.— DrytDc peochca in CBliloniia. TVoji itukcd tor enUhinc uO. 

selecting only sound berries, wash lightly, and place between tea 
towels or in the sun to dry off surface intiisturc. Spread them 
in thin layers on the traj-s or racks to dry. Raise tbe temperature 



ZV) StX-CKHHFin. CAXXISG ASD FBESEBVdG 

^ra/liuliy fmin 110' to 125 - Fahreoh^it in about two hooiK Do 
iVft rauK tfrinperaturc higher than I'H)'- Fahrenheit until a con- 
aifl«rahl« pun'tun of moisture has evap<jrated, as otherwise there 
will t^ expanmon and low of juice by dripping. This is aeeom- 
pani*:'! by ]iimi of flavor and color. Finish drtnn^ berries at 140- 
for two or three hours. It is necemar^- to dr>- berries from four 
U> five honn. 

Cbcrrie*/— Wash, dry off surface moisture before fipreading 
onsef^le'l cherries in thin layers on irays. If cherries are seeded 
there will lie a low of juice. Dry frrtm three to four hours at a 
t«n|ferature of 110- to 150- Fahr<^nheit. Raise temperature 
gradually. 

Figs 'Fig. 122;. — 1. Select two quarts of perfect whole figs, 
allow them to Ktand in a gallon of lime water 'one ounce of lime 
to one gallon of water/ for one hour. Remove the figs from the 
limi- water and stand in clear, cold v.ater for half an hour. Drain 
the fiffK well and dn»p them info boiling syrup. Make si-rup by 
Ujiling toifeltier one quart of RUtiar and one quart of water for 
ten minuteH. (.'otjk the figs rapidly in this syrup for forty or fifty 
minutes, remove the figs from the syrup, drain and place on trays 
or platters in the sun for several days, or place them in single 
layers on trays in the evaporator fur three hours at a temperature 
fnim 1 ■')(!'' to IVr- Falirenheit. If dried in the sun the figs should 
1k! turned each day and the tray should be brought indoors at 
night. It will 1m> necessary to have the tray covered with glass or 
eheeseeloth to protect the fruit from insects. During the time the 
figs are drying;, if it should rain, keep them in an oven, at a 
very low temperature. 

2. Select three quarts of firm, sound figs and drop them into 
Ixiiling lye solution (two tablespoon fuls of lye^to two quarts of 
water) for one minute. Lift them out carefully and put through 
two eold baths, then drop into lime water, using one ounce of lime 
to (I gallon of water; allow the figs to stand in this lime water 
for an hour, drain well, and rinse in clear water. Drop them 
inU) a syrup which you have made by using one quart of sugar 
and line quart of water, cook the figs in this synip rapidly until 
they tire clear, drain, and place them stems up on the platter in 



DRYING FRUITS, VEGETABLES AND HERBS 241 

the sun and allow them to remain in the sun or in a cool oven 
until they are thoroughly dried. Three to four hours in an 
evaporator at a temperature from 130° to 150° Fahrenheit will 
dry them sufficiently. 

Peaches (Fig. 123). — Peaches are usually cut in halves, and 
may be evaporated with or without being peeled. Cut in halves, 
pit, lay in trays pit side up, and dry at a temperature of 110° 
Fahrenheit to 140° Fahrenheit for four to six hours. Sometimes 
they are dropped into a thin syrup before being dried. This gives 
a better flavor and color with some varieties of peaches. 

Pears. — ^Pare, core, and cut fruit into eighths. As pears dis- 
color quickly, do not let stand long before drying. To prevent 
discoloration, as the fruit is prepared it may be dipped for one 
minute into a cold salt bath, using one ounce of salt to one gallon 
of water. Dry off surface moisture and put into the evaporator, 
having the temperature 110° Fahrenheit, raising temperature 
gradually to 150° Fahrenheit. Dry for four to six hours, and 
longer if necessary. Pears may also be steamed ten minutes be- 
fore drying. 

Plums. — Select medium ripe plums, cover with boiling water, 
and cover the vessel and let stand twenty minutes. Small, thin- 
fleshed varieties are not suitable for drying. Drain, remove sur- 
face moisture, and dry for four to six hours, raising the tem- 
perature gradually from 110° to 150° Fahrenheit. 

Storing Dried Fruits. — After trays are removed from the 
evaporator, such fruit as apples, peaches, etc., is put into bins, 
where it is stirred occasionally and allowed to remain until it 
passes through the sweating process. The fruit is again sorted ac- 
cording to appearance and quality before storing. The purpose 
in storing a dried product is to protect it from moisture, dust, 
and insects. Sometimes spoilage is caused by lack of proper 
storage. Any food which has been properly dried will keep in 
paper bags suspended from the ceiling of a fairly dry room in- 
definitely unless attacked by insects. The bags should be double- 
tied or sealed (see p. 247) to protect them from the dust. A 
safer way to store dried fruits would be to put these bags into tin 
buckets or boxes with tightly fitting covers. 
16 



843 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESKRVING 

Preparation of Dried Fruits for Use. — Failure to serve dried 
fruits in attractive ways is due usually to not soaking them long 
enough before cooking, and to adding sugar too early in their 
preparation. Dried fruits, like dried vegetables, require long 
soaking in plenty of wat^'r, and must be allowed to come slowly 
to a boil and then to boil gently until the fruit is plump and 
tender. 

DRYING VEOtTTylBI.ES 

Equally as groat care should be given to the selection and 
preparation of vegetables for drying as for canning. To secure 
a fine quality of dried products much depends upon having the 
vegetables absolutely fresh, young, tender, and perfectly clean. 
Wash all vegetables and clean well. If steel knives are used in 
paring and cutting, have them clean and bright, so as not to dis- 
color the vegetable. 

After vegetables are prepared properly they are then blanched. 
The blanch gives a more thorough cleaning, removes the strong 
odor and flavor from certain kinds of vegetables, and softens and 
loosens the fiber. This allows the moisture in the vegetable to 
evaporate more quickly and uniformly. It also quickly coagulates 
the albuminous matter in the vegetables which helps to hold in 
the natural flavors. Blanching consists of plunging the vegetable 
into boiling water for a short time. Use a wire basket or cheese- 
cloth bag for this. After blanching the required number of 
minutes, drain well and remove surface moisture from vegetables 
by placing between two towels or by exposing to the sun and air 
for a short time. 

The vegetable thus prepared is spread in a thin layer on the 
trays of the drier. The temperature for drying should be rather 
low to prevent scorching the product. For most vegetables, after 
surface moisture is removed, begin drying at a temperature of 
110^ Fahrenheit. Increase temperature gradually from 110'' to 
145° Fahrenheit. Complete drying for most vegetables in two or 
three hours. The time required for drying vegetables varies; 
however, it can easily be determined by a little experience. The 



DRYING FRUITS, VEGETABLES AND HERBS 243 

material should be stirred or turned several times during the 
dr^'ing in order to secure a uniform product. 

Green String Beans. — All varieties of string beans can be 
dried. Wash and string beans carefully. The very young and 
tender string bean can be dried whole. Those that are full 
grown should be cut in one-quarter to one-inch lengths with a 
vegetable slicer or a sharp knife. It is better to cut beans than 
snap them. They are then put in a bag of cheesecloth or in a 
wire basket and blanched in boiling water for six to ten minutes, 
depending on the maturity of the bean. One-half teaspoonful 
of soda may be added to each gallon of boiling water to help set 
the green color in the bean. Remove surface moisture according 
to directions given above. Begin drying at a temperature of 110° 
Fahrenlieit and raise temperature gradually to 145° Fahrenheit. 
Wax beans are dried in the same manner as the green string 
beans. 

Lima Beans. — Lima beans can be shelled from the pod and 
dried. If gathered before maturity, when young and tender, wash 
and blanch for five to ten minutes. Length of time for blanching 
depends upon size and maturity of bean. Remove surface 
moisture and dry for three to three and one-half hours at the tem- 
perature given for string beans. 

Dry Shelled Beans. — DitUVrent kinds of beans, after maturing 
and drying on the vines, can be treated as follows: Shell, wash, 
and spread in thin layers on the trays of the drier and heat ten 
minutes, beginning at 160^ Fahrenheit and gradually raising the 
temperature to 180° Fahrenheit. This high temperature will 
destroy all insect eggs that might be on the beans. Cowpeas or 
any field pea can be treated in the same way. Cool and store 
carefully. It might be added that the heating of the bean or 
pea destroys its vitality and thus treated cannot be used for seed 
purposes. 

Garden Peas. — When drying the very young and tender sugar 
peas, use the pod also. Wash and cut in one-quarter inch pieces, 
blanch in boiling water six minutes, remove surface moisture, 
and dry the same length of time and at the same temperature as 



244 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

string beans. It is not necessary to use soda when blanching peas. 

The garden pea, which has a non-edible pod, is shelled and 
blanched for three to five minutes. Remove surface moisture, 
spread in a single layer on trays, and dry for three to three and 
one-half hours. Be^n drying at 110" Fahrenheit, raise tem- 
perature very alowty in about one and one-half hours to 145" 
Fahrenheit. Continue drying one and one-half or two hours at 
145° Fahrenheit. 

Sweet Com. — Select very young and tender com, and pre- 
pare at once after gathering. Boil or steam on the cob six to 
eight minutes to set the milk. To improve flavor a teaspoonful 
of salt to a gallon of water may be used. Drain well and cut corn 
from the cob, u.sing a very sharp and flexible knife. Cut grains 
fine, only half way down to the cob, and scrape out the remainder 
of grain, being careful not to scrape off any of the chaff next 
to the cob. Dry from three to four hours at a temperature of 
110° to 145° Fahrenheit. When field corn is used, good, plump 
roasting ear stage is the proper degree of ripeness. A pound of 
dried corn per dozen ears is an average yield. This method gives 
a delicious product which is easily kept. 

Corn may be dried in the sun. Dry in oven for ten to fifteen 
minutes and finish drying in the sun. Sun drying is, of course, 
not satisfactory in damp weather, and the dried product will be 
darker in color and not as attractive in appearance. When dried 
in the sun it should be heated in the oven to kill insect eggs before 
storing. 

Carrots and Parsnips.. — Clean, scrape or pare, and slice in 
one-eighth inch slices. Blanch for six minutes, remove surface 
moisture, and dry for two and one-half to three hours. Begin 
drying at 110° Fahrenheit, and raise the temperature gradually 
to 150° Fahrenheit. Kohlrabi, celeriac, and salsify arc dried by 
the same method. 

Beets. — Boil the whole beets without peeling until a little 
more than three-fourths done. Dip in cold water, peel, and slice 
in one-eighth or one-quarter inch slices. Dry for two and one- 
half to three hours at a temperature of 110° to 150° Fahrenheit. 



DRYING FRUITS, VEGETABLES AND HERBS 245 

Okra. — ^Wash, blanch for three minutes in boiling soda water 
(one-half teaspoonful of soda to one gallon of water), and 
dry for two to three hours at a temperature of 110° to 140° 
Fahrenheit. Dry young and small tender pods whole. Older 
pods should be cut into one-quarter inch slices. Small, tender 
pods are sometimes strung on a string and hung over the stove 
to dry. If dried in this manner, heat in the oven before storing. 

Onions and Leek. — ^Wash, peel, and slice onions in one-eighth 
to one-quarter inch slices. To avoid any unpleasantness, peel and 
slice holding under water. Blanch in boiling water for five min- 
utes, remove surface moisture, dry for two and one-half to three 
hours, beginning at 110° Fahrenheit and raising temperature 
gradually to 140° Fahrenheit. Leek is cut in one-quarter inch 
strips and dried as onions. 

Peppers. — Peppers may be dried by splitting on one side, re- 
moving seed, drying in the air, and finishing drying in the drier 
at 140° Fahrenheit. A more satisfactory method is to place 
peppers on a biscuit pan in a hot oven and heat until the skin 
blisters. Peel, split in half, take out seed, and dry at a tempera- 
ture of 110° to 140° Fahrenheit. In drying thick-fleshed pep- 
pers like the pimiento, do not increase heat too quickly, but dry 
slowly and evenly. Small varieties of red peppers may be spread 
in the sun until wilted, and the drying finished in the drier, or 
they may be entirely dried in the sun. 

Pumpkin and Summer Squash. — Pare and cut in about one- 
half inch strips and blanch for three minutes, remove surface 
moisture, and dry slowly for three to four hours, raising tempera- 
ture from 110° to 140° Fahrenheit. 

Vegetable Soup Mixtures. — Each vegetable used in the soup 
mixture is prepared and dried separately. They are put together 
in different proportions, the desired vegetable predominating. A 
combination of several vegetables makes a most desirable soup 
mixture. Those most often used are carrots, cabbage, onions, 
celery, and okra. 

Cabbage. — Cabbage is shredded or cut into strips a few inches 
long. Blanch for ten minutes, drain, remove surface moisture. 



340 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRKSKRVING 

and dry for three hours at a temperature of 110° to 145° 
Fahrenheit. 

Mushrooms. — Only dry mushrooms may be successfully 
cured. Use mature mushrooms for drying. After they have been 
peeled, place them in single layers, with caps down, on boards 
or drying racks, exposing them to the hot sun and air. Turn 
the mushrooms frequently. Bring the trays indoors each night, as 
the muslii-ooms absorb moisture rapidly. Finish them off by put- 
ting them in the oven or evaporator for one hour at 130^ to 140° 
Fahrenheit. When they arc brittle, run them tlirough a spice or 
a coft'eu mill. Pack the mushroom powder at once into dry 
bottles and seal tightly. Dried mushroom powder keeps well, and 
this is a delieious flavoring to use in meat gravies made with milk. 
Wliolc mushrooms may be dried by the same method. After they 
are soaked they I'esemble the fresh ones, with the exception of 
being a little more tough. 

Dried Celery and Parsley Leaves. — Celery and parsley 
leaves can he dried in the shade or for two hours in a cool oven 
(110° to IW Fahrenheit). The temperature should bo raised 
gradually. Thi'so leaves may be mixed in equal parts and pow- 
dered. Put the dried leaves thrmigh a spiee mill, or use a rolling 
pin for pulverizing them. This combiuiition makes a good sea- 
soning for soups and stuffings. It should be stored in cans or 
jars air-tiglit, otherwise it will soften on standing. 

Legumes. — Dried mature legumes arc not only cheap, but 
they are rich in nourishment. Baked beans, for example, furnish 
more nutriment than beef costing two or three times as much. 

Storing Dried Vegetables, — When vegetables are first taken 
from the drier, if completely dried they are very brittle. They 
are more easily handled and are in better condition for storing 
if allowed to stand one to three hours to absorb enough moisture 
to make them more pliable before putting them into bags or 
storing otherwise. If it is not convenient to store products imme- 
diately, and they are allowed to stand for several days, they 
should be heated to 160° Fahrenheit to destroy any insect eggs 
that might be on them. Care should be taken not to heat the 
vegetable higher than 160° Fahrenheit. 



DRYING FRUITS, VEGETABLES AND HERBS 247 

Dried vegetables should always be stored in moisture-proof 
containers and in a dry place, free from dust and dirt. The best 
container is a tin box, bucket, or can fitted with a tight cover. 
Perhaps the most convenient and cheapest container is the small 
paper bag. A small amount should be put into each bag, just 
enough for use in one or two meals. This will prevent the opening 
of any dried product that cannot be consumed in a short time. 
The upper part of the bag is twisted to form a neck. The neck 
is bent over and tied tight with a string. Dip a small brush into 
melted i)araffin and paint the entire bag. This makes the bag 
practically moisture and insect-proof. To further protect from 
insect ravages, label and pack bags in a tin container with a 
tight-fitting cover. A large number of bags can be stored in 
an ordinary lard can. A glass jar with a tight seal is a good con- 
tainer for dried products. Paraffin-coated paper containers of 
various sizes can be found on the market. If such containers are 
used they should also be stored as the paper bags. 

All dried products should be examined occasionally, and, upon 
the first appearance of insects, spread in thin layers in the sun 
until insects disappear; heat to a temperature of 160° Fahrenheit 
and restore carefully. 

Preparation of Dried Vegetables for Use. — 1. Soak for sev- 
eral hours in warm or cold water to absorb the moisture lost 
through evaporation. 

2. Drain and boil such vegetables as peas, beans, and spinach 
in soda water, using about one-eighth teaspoonful of soda to one 
quart of water. 

3. One tablesi)()r)nful of lemon juice added to dried beans after 
soaking them adds much improvement in flavor. 

4. Add seasoning to the dried vegetables to make them more 
palatable — celery, mustard, onions, cheese, nutmeg, etc. 

5. Dried vegetables are used in soup, and most deliciously 
flavored thick puree may be made of them. Four ounces of dried 
soup vegetables (sliced carrots, potatoes, cabbage, onions, etc.) 
will be sufficient to make three quarts to one gallon of vegetable 
soup. 



848 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

DRYING HERBS 

"Oht who can t«ll the hidden power of Uerba, 
And might of magic spell !" — Spenter. 

The ancient housekeeper was far more interested than the 
modern one in gathering and drying her own herba at the right 
season for culinary and medicinal uses. In the olden days herbs 
were relied upon to give variety to the daily menu and for tonic 
qualities, while to-day the flavor only is the dominant thought. 
A dash of prepared "kitchen bouquet" will answer all purposes. 

French and Italian cooks excel in the skilful use of the variety 
of herbs in their cooking, while only three or four herbs^parsley. 
mint, sage, and thyme — are generally used by the American cooks. 

The eultivatiou of herbs has been considered within the 
woman's domain because of the close relationship between herbs 
and cookery. In some casi'S it has bet'U found profitable as a com- 
mercial enlerprise. The Dnrhiim mustard which i.s now popular 
on the market was first prepared by a woman. Her ingenuity in 
making mustard flour and then preparing the Durham mustard 
has won for her a worldwide reputation. Most herbs are easily 
euUivatcd. since they are not disturbed by insects because of 
the essential oils found in them. 

In many communities or neighborhoods herbs might be grown 
cooperatively, each kitchen garden to contain herbs agreed upon 
in advance. 

Picking. — Herbs should be gathered in the morning after the 
dew has disappeared. The blossoms of catnip and like herbs are 
gathered. The belief that herba should be gathered only when 
in blossom is probably an erroneous one. When only the leaves 
are desired to dry, they should be gathered while they are young 
and tender. If the leaves are picked when tliey are young and 
fresh a new growth continues to come, and these are as good as 
the first picking. 

Drying. — Often the whole plant has to be dried in order not 
to shake oif the seed pods. Stems and seeds may be spread out to 
dry on sheets of cotton cloth, or dried on trays of wire mesh or in 
a fruit evaporator, when one is available. Herbs which have been 
allowed to dry in the shade for one day can be quickly finished 



DRYING FRUITS, VEGETABLES AND HERBS 249 

by subjecting them to a temperature of about 110^ to 130° 
Fahrenheit in an oven or an evaporator. The length of time 
varies with the kind of herb being dried. The following herbs 
will dry suflfieiently in the time given, if the temperature of 110° 
to 130° Fahrenheit is kept uniform : 

Parsley for about 1 hour 30 minutes 

Sage for about 1 hour 10 minutes 

Mint for about 1 hour 

Thyme for about 1 hour 

Savory for about 1 hour 

Marjoram for about 45 minutes 

Tarragon, basil, chives, and spearmint can also be dried. 

Fcli. — Young, tender sassafras leaves are gathered in the early 
spring, dried and powdered. The French use this in gumbo and 
for seasoning and thickening gravies and sauces. 

Sweet Bay Leaves. — Sweet bay leaves are gathered while still 
young and tender and dried in the shade and bottled to use for 
seasoning. 

Peppers. — Small hot peppers are strung on cord and hung up 
to dry slowly in the shade. 

Storing Herbs. — An attractive way to pack herbs is to wrap 
them carefully in wax paper and place in small cans or packages. 
Dried leaves may be packed in glass jars, and powdered herbs 
are more often packed in narrow-necked bottles. The herbs are 
less liable to become moldy if they are kept dry and closed from 
the dust. When leaves and blossoms are to be packed they must 
be clean and free from stems. Herbs such as anise, coriander, 
caraway, fennel, lovage, and horehound are often used in confec- 
tionery. Angelica is valued for its stems, and it is sometimes 
candied. Iris root, dried lavender, sweet grass, clover blossoms, 
and rose petals have been used from time immemorial by house- 
wives to perfume their linen closets. 

Medicinal Herbs. — Since domestic medicinal remedies are no 
longer made, the growing of medicinal herbs is not common, but 
it might still be made a source of income in a limited way. 

An article in the United States Yearbook of the Department of 
Agriculture for 1903 states : * * As a result of such a study of the 



850 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

situation aa has thus far been practicable, the Southern States 
seem to offer many advantages for the prospective drug grower. 
The long-growing season needed for many drug plants, the low 
price of labor, and the usual low price of land combine to make 
sections of the South seem promising in this eonneetion. " 

Herbs which can sometimes be sold to local druggists are as 
follows : 

Boneset Tanay leaves and bloxHoms 

Catnip Yarrow leaves and bloeeoms 

Mullein Wintergreen leaves 

Sage Red raspberry leaves 

Lobelia Jimson-wced leaves 

Motlierwort Red clover 

BasBWood Hower 

Bark. — The bark is peel, so that none of the wood is left. 
Blackhaw, cherry, poplar, and Wahoo barks may be sold in small 
quantities and usually bring from three to eight cents a pound. 
In some cases the bark of the root is called for, such as the bark 
of the Wahoo and Blackhaw roots, and these bring from ten to 
twenty cents per pound. 

Seeds. — Pumpkin, sunflower, lobelia, prickly ash berry, cara- 
way, dill, burdock seed, and com-silk are sometimes sold for three 
to fifteen cents per pound. 

Roots. — Ginseng, burdock, bloodroot, yellow dock, mandrake, 
Indian turnip or spikenard root, Jack-in-the-pulpit, and sarsapa- 
rilla often sell for three to ten cents per pound, 

HOME STORAGE OP VEGETABLES 

To those persons fortunate enough to possess land for the 
growing of vegetables sufficient in quantity for the "needs of the 
family, storage is an economic necessity. Likewise it is an eco- 
nomic necessity to grow vegetables to store. A half-acre garden 
should produce far more vegetables than the average family 
can consume during the maturing period of the crops. Only a 
small portion of the garden should be planted to those vegetables 
which must be used as soon as they reach maturity. The re- 
mainder should be devoted to crops that arc to be canned, dried. 



DRYING FRUITS, VEGETABLES AND HERBS 251 

or stored. It is comparatively easy to keep by storing such vege- 
tables as potatoes, beets, carrots, parsnips, salsify, turnips, cab- 
bage, celery, onions, sweet potatoes, dry beans, and dry lima 
beans. Some of the crops may be stored in the cellar under the 
dwelling, in pits or banks, or in caves or outdoor cellars. Others 
can be kept in any dry place, such as the pantry or attic. 

The Storage Room in the Basement. — Many houses are 
heated by a furnace in the cellar. The pipes are, as a rule, car- 
ried under the joist, thus warming the cellar to some extent. 
For this reason it is best to partition off a small room in one 
corner of the cellar to serve as a storage-room for potatoes, beets, 
carrots, parsnips, salsify, and turnips. If possible, this room 
should have at least one window for the purpose of regulating 
the temperature. The floor should not be concreted, as the nat- 
ural earth makes better conditions for the keeping of vegetables. 
Bins may be constructed for the various products, or they may 
be stored in boxes, baskets, or barrels. This room will also serve 
as a storage place for fresh fruits and canned goods. The vege- 
tables to be stored should be harvested when the ground is dry, 
and allowed to lie on the surface long enough for the moisture to 
dry off before placing them in storage. The tops should be re- 
moved from beets, turnips, carrots, and salsify before placing 
them in storage. 

Outdoor pits or banks are very generally used for keeping 
potatoes, beets, carrots, turnips, parsnips, cabbage, and salsify. 
Select a well-drained location and make an excavation. This is 
lined with straw, leaves, or similar material, and the vegetables 
placed in a conical pile on the material. The vegetables are then 
covered with straw or similar material, and finally with earth to a 
depth of several inches. The depth of the earth covering is de- 
termined by the severity of the winters in the particular locality. 
It is well to cover the pits with straw, com fodder, or manure dur- 
ing severe weather. Such pits keep the above vegetables very well, 
but have the objection that it is hard to get the material out in 
cold weather, and where the pit is once opened it is desirable to 
remove the entire contents. For this reason several small pits 



858 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

rather thao one large one should be coDstructed so that the entire 
contents may be removed at one time. Instead of storing each 
crop in a pit by itself, it is better to place several vegetables in 
the same pit, so that it will be necessary to open only one pit to 
get a supply of all of them. In storing several crops in the same 
pit it is a good plan to separate them with straw, leaves, or other 
material. The vegetables from the small pit may be placed in the 
basement storage-room, where they can be easily secured as needed 
for the table. 

Cabbage may be stored in a special kind of bank or pit. The 
excavation is made long and narrow and about the same depth as 
for the other vegetables. The cabbages are pulled and placed 
in rows in the pit with the heads down and roots up. The whole 
is covered with dirt; no straw or litter need be used. These 
pits are made as long as desired, as it is possible to remove por- 
tions of the stored product without disturbing the remainder. 
Cabbage need not he covered as deeply as potatoes, as slight freez- 
ing does not injure the cabbage. The heads of cabbage are some- 
times stored in banks or pits in a manner similar to potatoes, 
turnips, etc. This method is open to the same objection as when 
it is used for potatoes : it is hard to get at the material when it 
is needed. Another method of storing cabbage consists in setting 
the whole plant in trenches side by side with the roots down and 
as close together as they can be placed. Dirt is thrown over the 
roots and against the stalks to the depth of several inches. A low 
fence is built around the storage place, and rails, scantling, or 
other supports laid across the top. About two feet of straw or 
other material is then piled on top of the storage pit. 

Celery may be stored in a modified type of outside pit, or in 
the row where it is grown. When stored in a pit or trench the 
plants are taken up and set side by side in a shallow pit a" close 
together as it is feasible to pack them, and wide boards set up 
along the outside of the pit. Dirt is banked against these boards, 
and the top covered over with corn fodder or similar material. 
When celery is kept in the row where it is grown the earth is 
banked up around the plants as the weather gets cold. When 
freezing weather occurs the dirt should be brought to the tops 



DRYING FRUITS, VEGETABLES AND HERBS 253 

of the plants and the ridge covered with coarse manure, straw or 
fodder, held in place by means of stakes or boards. 

Outdoor Caves or Cellars. — Outdoor caves or cellars are 
superior to banks or pits in many respects. They require no 
more labor to store the vegetables than an indoor cellar, yet 
give a uniform and low temperature during the entire year. They 
possess practically all the advantages of the bank or pit, yet may 
be entered at any time during the winter for the removal of any 
portion of the stored product without endangering the keeping 
quality of the material that remains. These storage cellars are 
usually made partially under ground, although in the southern 
portion of the country they are usually entirely above ground. In 
sections where severe freezing occurs it is well to have the cellar 
partially under ground. In order to avoid steps down to the level 
of the floor, with the consequent extra labor in storing and re- 
moving the vegetables, a side-hill location is desirable for the 
cellar. An excavation is made into the hill of the approximate 
size of the cellar. The dirt from this excavation may be used 
for covering the roof and for banking against the sides of the 
structure. A frame should be erected by setting posts in rows in 
the bottom of the pit near the dirt walls, sawing these off at a uni- 
form height, placing plates on top of the posts, and erecting 
rafters on these plates. The whole should be boarded up on the 
outside of the posts, with the exception of a space for a door 
in one end. The whole structure, except the door, is covered with 
dirt and sod. The thickness of the covering will be determined by 
the location; the colder the climate the thicker the covering. 
The dirt covering may be supplemented by a layer of manure, 
straw, corn fodder, etc., in winter time. Outdoor cellars are 
usually left with dirt floors, as a certain amount of moisture is 
desirable. These cellars may also be made of concrete, brick, 
stone, or other material. Such cellars are to be found in many 
sections of the country, and provide almost ideal storage facilities 
for potatoes, beets, turnips, carrots, parsnips, salsify, and celery. 

Sweet potatoes should be thoroughly matured before harvest- 
ing, dug while the ground is dry, carefully handled, and thor- 
oughly cured by holding them at a temperature of 80° to 85° 



254 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

Fahrenheit for a week or ten days after harvesting. After this 
they should be stored in a place where the temperature remains 
in the neighborhood of 55° Fahrenheit. Such a location is usually 
near the furnace in the cellar, or near the furnace chimney on 
the second floor of the house. There is little merit in wrapping 
them in paper or burying them in sand. Sweet potatoes are 
stored in outdoor pits or banks, but this method is not to be recom- 
mended except where no other facilities are available. Sweet 
potatoes stored in pits are not as good in quality as those stored 
in houses. 

Onions should be well matured before harvesting, and should 
be allowed to become thoroughly dry before being stored. They 
may be put up in baskets, crates, or bags, and placed in a cool, dry 
place. The attic is better than the cellar for storing onions. Tem- 
peratures slightly below the freezing-point do not in.jnre tliem. 

Beans, Peas, and Other Dried Products. — Such vegetables aa 
may he kept in the dry state should he grown to as great an e.xtent 
as pcs-sible. Various kinds of beans, including lima beans, should 
be allowed to dry on the vines. Lima beans should be gathered 
as they mature, and placed in a warm, dry place until dry enough 
to shell. Navy beans and kidney beans are usually harvested 
when a maximum number of pods are mature and the vines cured 
like hay, after which they arc threshed or shelled. Peas are 
handled in the same way as navy beans. After the beans and peas 
are threshed or shelled and dried off they should be placed in 
bags and hung in some dry place, snch as a closet or attic. 

QUESTIONS 

1. What advantage have dried vegrtablps and fruitR over canned oneaF 

2. la there any advantage in this means of preservation in the home? 

3. State three essential steps in the drying ot herbs. veRetablea. or fruiti^. 
i. What special care should be taken in the storaBe of dried products? 
5. What are the principal causes of an unsatisfactorily dried prodiietT 
fl. Why should the use of herbs he encouraged in this country! 

7. SuRpest as many ways as poasibie for the use of dried ve(;etahlon in the 

diet. 

8. What speeial points Hhould be considered in the preparation of themT 
S. What miatakea are often made in the preparation of dried fruits for 



DRYING FRUITS, VEGETABLES AND HERBS 255 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

1. Abel, Ambrose, "' Preservation of Food," 1857. Published by Case, 

Lockwood & Co., Hartford, Conn. 

2. Babrows, Miss Anna, *' Extension Course in Vegetable Foods," March, 

1916, Farmers* Bulletin 123, United States Department of Agricul- 
ture. Can be purchased from the Superintendent of Documents, Gov- 
ernment Printing Office, Washington, D. C. 10 cents. 

3. Caldwell, J. S., *' Evaporation of Apples," Bulletin 131, May, 1916. 

Published by State College of Washington, Pullman, Wash. 

4. CoBBETT, L. C, "Raspberries," 1905, Farmers* Bulletin 213, United 

States Department of Agriculture. Can be procured from the Supt. 
of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C. 5 cents. 

5. "Creole Cook Book," 1914. Published by The Picayune, New Orleans, 

La. By mail, $1.25. 
0. GiBBS, Walter M., " Spices and How to Know Them," 1909. Published 
by the Matthews-Northrup W^orks, Buffalo, N. Y. 

7. Gould, H. P., *' Evaporation of Apples," 1907 and 1915, Farmers* Bul- 

letin 291, United States Department of Agriculture. Can be obtained 
from the Secretary of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 

8. Henkel, Alice, " Flowers, Fruits, and Seeds," 1913, Bulletin 26, B. P. I., 

United States Department of Agriculture. Can be purchased from 
the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Wash- 
ington, D. C. 5 cents. 

9. Henkel, Alice, " Weeds I'sed in Medicine,** 1904, Farmers* Bulletin 

188, United States Department of Agriculture. Can be purchased 
from the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, 
Washington, D. C. 5 cents. 

10. Lewis, C. I., and Brown, W. S., " Fruit and Vegetable By-products,** 

April, 1914, College Bulletin No. 128, Oregon Agricultural College. 
Published by the Oregon Agricultural College, Corvallis, Ore. 

11. Marshall, Lucile, "Garden Herbs: Culture and Uses,** The Ohio 

Farmer, January 8, 1916, vol. 137, No. 2. Published by the Lawrence 
Publishing Company, Cleveland, Ohio. 

12. Plat, Sir Hugh. " Delights for Ladies,*' 1632. Sold by J. Boler, London. 

13. Pkunot, E. F., " Preserving Wild Mushrooms,** January, 1908, Experi- 

ment Station Bulletin 98. Oregon Agricultural College. Published 
l)y the Oregon Agricultural College, Corvallis, Ore. 

14. True, Rodney H., '* Cultivation of Drug Plants in the United States,*' 

Yearbook Separate No. 325, in the Agricultural Yearbook of 1903, 
United States Department of Agriculture. Can be purchased from 
the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Wash- 
ington, D. C. 75 cents. 

15. Farmers' Bulletin No. 841, " Drying Fruits and Vegetables in the 

Home,** United States Department of Agriculture. 



CHAPTER XVI 
PRESERVATION OF MEATS 

Since the earliest ages people have preserved meats by various 
meanB, and some of the methods in use to-day have come down 
from a great antiquity. Most of the modern methods of meat 
preservation, which have wide commercial use, can also be used 
in the home, with the single exception of canning meats, which 
it is not wise for the home maker to attempt who is inexperienced 
in eanniug. Among the principal means used are drying, smok- 
ing, and curing with salt. 

GENERAL METHODS 

Drying. — This is not only the oldest method of preserving 
foods, but it is the simplest. While drying is better adapted to 
the curing of fruits and vegetables than it is to meats, yet meats 
are often shredded and dried in many parts of the world. Drying 
meats should only be practiced where there is little moisture in 
the atmosphere, or the meat will spoil before it becomes dry 
enough. It is never advisable to attempt to preserve meats by 
this method in cities where there is great danger of bacteria. 
Dried meat maintains all of its nutritive properties, but it is not 
easily digested on account of the toughened tissues. This product 
is not attractive in appearance, and this fact also works against its 
extensive use. 

Smoking. — The custom of smoking meats is said to have 
originated from the habit of suspending meat near the fireplace in 
the dwelling. The meat became saturated with the creosote from 
the smoke, which gave it an agreeable taste and aided in its keep- 
ing qualities. The creosote was formed by the burning of the wood, 
and the smoke closed the pores to some extent, excluding the 
air and proving objectionable to insects. Before meats are smoked 
they usually undergo a treatment of salt and sugar, with some- 
times a small amount of saltpetre added to modify the color, com- 
256 



PRESERVATION OF MEATS 257 

position, and flavor, and to aid in the preservation of the meat. 
Saltpetre is considered injurious to health by some hygiehists, 
and therefore many may object to its use. It is included in 
some of these recipes because its use had heretofore been cus- 
tomary. 

Because the old method of smoking meats is long and expen- 
sive, a cheaper and quicker way has come into practice rather re- 
cently. Directions for this tetter method state that brine is soaked 
into the meat, which is then treated with **smokine'' or ** liquid 
smoke.'' This solution may be purchased from a local druggist. 

Liquid Smoke Method. — 

200 pounds of meat 1 ounce of saltpetre 

4 quarts of coarse salt 1 quart of warm water 

1 pound of brown suj^ar ^4 pound of ground pepper 

Dissolve the saltpetre in the water, add salt and sugar, and 
mix well. Rub this mixture into the meat, and lay on a bench 
in a cold place for fourteen days. Then apply the liquid smoke 
with a brush, dry well, and in a few days paint the meat again 
with the liquid. Ilang up, and when thoroughly dry wrap the 
meat in heavy brown paper and then in a clean flour sack. 

Much time is saved by using the above recipe, but the meat 
which has been cured in the old-fashioned smoke-house is much 
finer in flavor and texture. Smoke-houses are still in use in many 
sections of the country. The meat should not be subjected to the 
smoke until it has been properly cured and drained. 

Curing in Brine and Dry Salting. — Curing should begin as 
soon as the meat is cold and while it is still fresh. Frozen meats 
should not be salted, as the action of the frost will prevent proper 
penetration of the salt and uneven curing will result. 

l^ure water, salt, sugar, and saltpetre are all the ingredients 
needed for ordinary curing of meat. Meat may be packed in 
large earthen jars or in clean barrels, tight enough to prevent 
leakage. The barrel or jar may be used again and again unless 
meat has spoiled in. it. These vessels should always be scalded 
thoroughly each time before packing fresh meat into them. 

Brine-cured meats are best for farm use, for the reason that a 
17 



258 SUCCKSSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

suitable place for dry-curing is not usually obtainable. It is also 
leas trouble to pack the meat in a barrel and pour on a brine than 
to go over it thrye or four times to rub in the salt. The brining 
metliod also gives better protection from insects and vermin. 
Trouble is sometimes experienced in keeping brine, but if pure 
water is used and directions are followed in making the brine 
there should be no difficulty in keeping it for a reasonable length 
of time. During warm weather brine should be closely watched. 
If it becomes "ropy'" it should be boiled or more brine made. A 
cool, moist cellar is the best place for brine-curing. Dty-curing 
may be done successfully in a cellar also, though even more 
moisture is needed to elfeet a tliorough cure. The cellar should 
be dark and tight enough to prevent flies and vermin from dam- 
aging the meat. When meats which have been cured in brine are 
boiled thf shrinkage is greater than those which have been cured 
by dry-salting. 

PRESERVINO beep' 

Corned Beef, — The j)ieces commonly used for coming ore 
the plate, rump, cross-ribs, and brisket, or. in other words, the 
cheaper cuts of meat. The loin, ribs, and other fancy cuts are 
more often used fresh, and, since there is more or less waste of 
nutrients in cornintr, this is well. The pieces for coming should 
be cut into eonvenieut-sized joints, say five or six inches square. 
It should l>c the aim to cut them alt about the same thickness so 
that they will make an even layer in the barrel. 

Meat from fat animals makes choicer corned beef than that 
from poor animals. When the meat is thoroughly cooled it 
should be corned as soon as possible, as any decay in the meat is 
likely to spoil the liriue during the coming process. Under no 
cireumstances should the meat be brined white it is frozen. 
Weigh out the meat and allow eight pounds of salt to each 100 
pounds; sprinkle a layer of salt one-quarter of an inch in depth 
over the bottom of the barrel; pack in as closely as possible the 

■ NoTK. — TIlia rpcijM' and others which follow are quoted from FaiTtnen' 
Bulletin So, IN3, " Meat on tlie Karni: HutoliiTing, Curing, and Keeping," 
by Andrew Boss. U. S. Department of .\urieiiltiirp. 



? 





1 . 



* « . V • 




PRESERVATION OF MEATS 259 

cuts of meat, making a layer five or six inches in thickness ; then 
put on a layer of salt, following with another layer of meat; 
repeat until the meat and salt have all been packed in the 
barrel, care being used to reserve salt enough for a good layer 
over the top. After the pack has stood over night add, for 
every 100 pounds of meat, four pounds of sugar, two ounces of 
baking soda, and four ounces of saltpetre dissolved in a gallon 
of tepid water. Three gallons more of water should be sufficient 
to cover this quantity. In case more or less than 100 pounds of 
meat is to be corned, make the brine in the proportion given. A 
loose board cover weighted down with a heavy stone should be 
put on the meat to keep all of it under the brine. In case any 
should project, the meat would spoil and cause the brine to 
deteriorate. 

It is not necessary to boil the brine except in warm weather. 
If the meat has been corned during the winter and must be kept 
into the summer season, it would be well to watch the brine 
closely during the spring, as it is more likely to spoil at that 
time than at any other season. If the brine appears to be 
ropy or does not drip freely from the finger when immersed 
and lifted, it should be drained off and new brine added, after 
carefully washing the meat. The sugar or molasses in the brine 
has a tendency to ferment, and, unless the brine is kept in a cool 
place, there is sometimes trouble from this source. The meat 
should be kept in the brine twenty-eight to forty days to secure 
thorough corning. 

Dried Beef. — The round is commonly used for dried beef, the 
inside of the thigh being considered the choicest piece, as it is 
slightly more tender than the outside of the round. The round 
should be cut lengthwise of the grain of meat in preparing for 
dried beef, so that the muscle-fibers may be cut crosswise when 
the dried beef is sliced for table use. A tight jar or cask is 
necessary' for curing. The process is as follows: To each 100 
pounds of meat weigh out Rve pounds of salt, three pounds of 
granulated sugar, and two ounces of saltpetre; mix thoroughly 
together. Rub the meat on all surfaces with a third of the mix- 
ture and pack it in the jar as tightly as possible. Allow it to 



gfiO SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

remam three days, when it should be removed and rubbed again 
with another third of the mixture. In repacking put at the 
bottom the pieCL's that were on top the first time. Let stand for 
three days, when they should be removed and rubbed with the 
remaining third of the mixture and allowed to stand for three 
days more. The liquid forming in the jars should not be removed, 
hut the meat should be repacked in the liquid each time. The meat 
is ready to be taken from the pickle, and should be smoked and 
hung in a dry attic or near the kitchen fire where the water will 
evaporate from it. It may be used at any time after smoking, 
although the longer it hanga in the dry atmosphere the drier it 
will get. The drier the climate, in general, the more easily meats 
can be dried. In arid regions good dried meat can be made by 
exposing it fresh to the air, with protection from fiies. 

Pickling Meat.— Authorities differ in regard to the formula 
used in the pickling of meats. The following recipe is often used 
for tongue and small pieces of meat : 

Cured Tongue. — 

2 gallons of water I onnee of xaitpetre 

3 pounds of salt % cupful of sugar 

Rub part of the salt into the meat, dissolving the remainder 
of the salt, the sugar, and the saltpetre in the water. Boil, 
ekim, and strain to remove all impurities. Cool thoroughly be- 
fore adding meat. Place a weight ovi-r the jar to keep the meat 
under the brine. Keep in a cold place and the tongue will be 
cured and ready to cook in four or five days. 

PRESERVING PORK ' 

Plain Salt Pork. — Rub each piece of meat with fine common 
salt and pack closely in a barrel. Let stand over night. The 
next day weigh out ten pounds of salt and two ounces of salt- 
petre to each 100 pounds of meat and dissolve in four gallons of 
boiling water. Pour this brine over the meat when cold, cover, 
and weigh down to keep it under the brine. 

'Note. — Tliese directions for handling pork werf contributed by Major 
Lawrence Foot, Special Agent Markoting, U. S. Dcpartmeat of Agriculture, 
Little Rock, Ark. 



PRESBRVATIOH OF MEATS 



2fil 



How to Cure, Smoke, and Keep Hams, Shoulders, and 
Bacon. — Meat cannot be safely cured if it has any animal beat 
in it. 

Cutting a Pork (Fi^. 124). — Remove the head ooe inch be- 
hind the cars, the feet one inch above the kuee-and-hock-jointa. 




The hams should be trimmed neatly and round, making long 
hams; cut six inches below the stifle-joint (Fig. 125). The 
shoulders can be cut into picnic hams if desired (Fig. 126). 
Notice carefully the illustrations of hams, picnic hams, and bacon 
properly trimmed (Figs. 127 and 128). Remove the backbone 
Note. — Drawings nude from illustrationa in Farmera' Bulletin No. 183. 



263 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



by sawing off the ribs close to it. Remove the ribs, leaving as 
little meat on them as possible, as that meat will be needed in the 
sides to have bacon "with a streak of lean." Trim the sides 
neatly and with straight edges ; leaf fat and the fat trimmings 
go into lard, the lean into sausage. 

Salting. — No sugar and no saltpetre are used in thia recipe. 
A hanging pew, box, or cask may be used for packing salted 




r^^. 






pork. First, place a layer of salt and pepper on the bottom of 
the pew or box, then the pieces of meat, skin down, salting the 
top heavily ; then another layer, skin down, salting it, and so on, 
covering every particle of the meat, sides, ends, and top, with 
salt. When done the meat will look like a pile of salt. Hams, 
shoulders, and bacon are salted in this manner and allowed to 
stand three or four weeks, according to the weather. If it is 



PRESERVATION OF MEATS 263 

very cold it takes a longer period. If the weather turns warm, 
shorten the period, but endeavor to cure the meat in a room that 
will average a temperature of 50"^, if possible. If during curing 
the salt becomes crusted, overhaul the meat, rub the salt in thor- 
oughly by hand, and pack it back in the same salt. When the 
meat has remained in the salt for the proper time, remove it, 
wash the meat thoroughly with tepid water, scrubbing it with a 
brush until all salt is removed from the outside, then hang **a8 
the hog walks*' — shanks down. The hams and shoulders should 
hang by wire from the thick ends. Drain the meat thoroughly 
for at least twenty-four hours, then put smoke to it. 

Smoking. — The meat should hang at least fifteen feet above 
the fire. Start a slow fire with green hickory chips and smother 
the flame, if any, with corn-cobs. The meat should be warmed 
up gradually with a cool, drj"^ smoke and smoked from ten to 
fifteen days, or until the meat has the proper color, a light 
chestnut. The house should never get hot (see p. 268). 

Sugar-cured Breakfast Bacon. — For up-to-date ** sugar- 
cured'' breakfast bacon, take pieces one inch to one and one- 
half inches in thickness, six to eight inches wide, and fifteen to 
eighteen inches long, and treat with salt, sugar and saltpetre 
mixture for fifteen to twenty-two days, unless strips are heavier. 
To every 100 pounds of meat weigh out eight pounds of salt, 
two pounds of granulated white sugar, and two ounces of salt- 
petre, mix all thoroughly, dampen the top side (not skin side) 
lightly with water by using a whisk broom dipped in water, then 
rub the mixture into the top side, the edges, and the ends. 
Sprinkle bottom of box with the mixture, lay in the piece that is 
rubbed, skin down, and sprinkle with the salt mixture, giving a 
light coating on top, then another, and so on. Every seven days 
from the day packed, overhaul all, rub each piece again, and re- 
salt with the same mixture lightly. The bacon that is one inch 
thick should remain in mixture fifteen days. The bacon that is 
one and one-half inches thick should remain in mixture twenty- 
two days. Heavier bacon may require longer time. Then take 
out, wash thoroughly, hang in smoke-house twenty-four hours to 
drain, and smoke to a light-chestnut color. This recipe should 






264 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

not be used where the meat muBt be kept in a warm and dry 
place, as the preservativea will not penetrate easily and uni- 
formly. 

Pickled Hams and Bacon in Brine. — This reeipe differs from 
the one given (p. 262), in that it calls tor saltpetre and water. It 
has given satisfaction and is preferred by some. "When the meat 
is eold, rub each piece with salt and allow it to drain over night. 
Then pack it in a barrel with the hams and shoulders in the 
bottom, using the strips of bacon to fill in between or to put on 
top. Weigh out for each 100 pounds of meat eight pounds of 
salt, two pounds of brown sugar, and two ounces of saltpetre. 
Dissolve all in four {rallons of water, and cover the meat with 
the brine. For summer use it will \w safest to boil the brine 
before using. In that case it should be thoroughly cooled be- 
fore it is used. For winter curing it is not necessary to boil 
the brine. Bacon strips should remain in this brine four to six 
weeks; hams, six to eight weeks. Hams and bacon cured in the 
spring will keep right through the suiiuner after they are smoked. 
The meat will be sweet and palatable if it is properly smoked, 
and the flavor will be good. 

Head-cheese. — Cut a hog's head into four pieces. Remove 
the brain, ears, skin, snout, and eyes. Cut off the fattest parts 
for lard. Put the lean and bony partsto soak over night in 
cold water in order to extract the blood and dirt. When the 
meat is cleaned, put it over the lire to boil, using water enough 
to cover it. Boil until the meat separates readily from the bone. 
Then remove it from tiie fire and pick out all of the bones. Drain 
off the liquor, saving a part of it for future use. Chop the meat 
up finely with a chopping knife. Return it to the kettle and 
pour on enough of the lir|uor to cover the meat. Let it boil 
slowly for fifteen minutes to half hour. Season to taste with salt 
and pepper just before removing it from the fire. Turn into 
a shallow pan or dish. Cover with a piece of cheesecloth and put 
on a board with a weight to make it solid. When eold it should 
be sliced thinly and served without further cooking. 

Scrapple. — The process for making this article of food is like 
that for head-cheese until the bones are removed and the meat 



PRESERVATION OF MEATS 265 

chopped. When the liquor is added, return the pan to the stove 
to boil. Cornmeal is then stirred in until the contents are as thick 
as cornmeal mush. Stir it constantly for the first fifteen minutes. 
Then set it back on the stove to boil slowly for an hour. When 
it is done, pour it into a shallow dish to mould. Hot grease 
poured over the top after scrapple is put into moulds will help 
in keeping it. When cold it is sliced in thin pieces and fried. 

Pickled Pigs' Feet.^ — Pigs' feet should be thoroughly scalded, 
cleaned, washed and chilled, and cured in a clean, sterilized 
wooden vessel. Strength of pickle depends upon length of time 
it is to be carried, say an 80° pickle with five ounces of saltpetre 
per 100 pounds of meat for shipment in ten days; a 100^ pickle 
for five days. Some curcrs use in addition one and one-half 
pounds of sugar per 100 poiinds of feet. Pigs' feet cured by 
this method will be white and more attractive than when pickled 
with spices. 

If spices are used it must be remembered that cloves tend to 
darken the feet. Curing should be effected in a clean wooden 
receptacle, using clean water for each batch. 

Trying Out Lard. — Only the best of fat should be used for 
choice lard. Leaf fat is the best. Leaf lard is that which is 
made from the leaf fat which lies around the kidneys. The 
next best in (juality is that from the back, and the poorest 
quality is that from around the intestines. The greater part of 
the lard marketed is obtained by melting together the whole fat 
except the leaf fat. The back strip of the side also makes nice 
lard, as do the ham, shoulder, and neck trimmings. Fat from 
around the intestines should never be mixed with the leaf and 
back fat. It makes a strong-smelling lard and should be kept 
separate. All scraps of lean meat should be cut out of the fat 
before trying out, as they are very likely to stick to the kettle and 
get scorched, giving an unpleasant flavor to the lard. When 
preparing the fat for trying, cut it into pieces from one to one 
and one-half inches square. The pieces should be nearly equal 
in size, so that they will try out in about the same time. Fill a 
clean kettle about three-fourths full, and put in a quart of water 

' Quoted from " The National Provisioner." 



2fi6 SUCCESSFL"L CASXINC ASD PRESER\^^"C 

or, if convenient, a quart of hot lard. One or the other is oeces- 
tiary to prevent the fat from burning before the beat is sufficient 
to bring out the grease. Keep the kettle over a moderate fire 
until the cracklings are brown and light enough to float. Fre- 
quent stirring will be necessary* to prevent burning. When done, 
remove from the stove and allow to eool slightly, and then strain 
thrrtugh a muslin cloth into a large jar. Stir it occasionally until 
it is cool enough to begin to solidify. If pails or smaller jars are 
to be filled, the lard should be dipped out while just warm enongb 
to be liquid. Stirring while the lard is cooling tends to whiten it 
and makes it smoother. Lard should be stored in a dry, cool, 
dark plaee. Lieht, moisture, and high temperatures affect its 
quality unfavorably. 



Sausage. — i'ork sausage should he made only from clean, 
fresh pork. The shoulders, neck, and lean trimmings are usu- 
ally used for siiusatie. t'nless part of the fat is removed and 
used for lard the sausage is likely to be too fat. To each 
eighteen pounds of lean meat allow six pounds of fat. Mix the 
fat and lean meat together in chopping. Where a rotary cutter 
is used it is best to cut the meat twice (Pig. 129). After it is 
cut the first time, spread it out thinly and season. Eight ounces 
of pure, fine salt, four ounces of ground black pepper, four 
ounces of pure leaf sage, rubbed fine, and one teaspoonful of red 
pep]nT to each twenty-four pounds of meat will suit the taste of 
most persons. The seasonin<r should he sprinkled thinly over the 
cut meat and the moat again run through the cutter to mix 
the seasoning thoroughly. This method will give a more even 
mixing of the spices than can l>e obtained by working it with the 
hands. For immediate use the sausage may be packed away in 
stone jars or crocks, to be sliced for frying. Many people stuff 
it into casings made from the small intestines of the hog. When 
this is done the intestines must be turned inside out and care- 
fully cleaned. 

A good substitute for casings may be had in narrow muslin 
bags. These, when filled, should be two and one-half or three 



PRESERVATION OF MEATS 



267 



inches in diameter and eighteen to twenty-four inches long. 
Stuff the sausage in tightly by band and hang in a cool place. 
If the sausage is to be kept for some time, melted lard should be 
rubbed over the outside of the bag. This excludes the air. 
Sausage may be kept for some time in a large jar if a thin 
coat of hot lard is poured over the top. 

Mixed Sausage. — This may be made from a mixture of pork 
and beef in almost any proportion. It is the custom of many 




farms to kill three or four hosis and a beef during the winter for 
the year's supply of meat. When this plan is followed a nice 
supply of sausage can be made from the trimmings. Sausage 
should not contain too much fat. A good proportion is two 
pounds of lean pork, one pound of fat pork, and one pound of 
lean beef. Chop together fine and season the same as for pork 
sausage. Pack in jars, muslin bags, or casings. Many people 
prefer this to clear pork sausage, as it is not so fat. 

Bologna Sausage. — To each ten pounds of lean beef use one 
pound of fat pork, or bacon if preferred. Chop finely and 
season with one ounce of salt to each four pounds of meat, one 
ounce of the best black pepper (ground, pure) to each six 



268 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

pounds of meat, and a little ground coriander. Stuff into eat- 
ings called beef "middles" or beef "rounds." If stuffed into 
middles, make the sausages ten or twelve inches long, and allow 
them to hang straight. If stuffed into rounds, make them twelve 
to fifteen inches long, and tie the ends together so as to form 
rings. Smoke for ten or twelve hours. Cook in boiling water 
until the sausages doat. Dry on clean hay or straw in the sun, 
and hang away in a cool place until wanted. 

Casings. — Sausage casings are the intestines of hogs, cattle, 
or sheep which have been emptied and cleaned. They are turned 
inside out and soaked in a solution of lye or lime water, thor- 
oughly washed, and then salted down. When cleaned and put 
up by a reputable packer they are as good as when cleaned at 
home, and when they can he bought at a reasonable price (three 
cents a pound, perhaps) it hardly pays to clean them for home 
use. The casings from different animals are used for the vari- 
ous kinds of sausages. Beef casings arc of three kinds^" rounds," 
made from the small intestines; "bun^," made from the lar^ 
intestines, and "middles," made from that part of the entrails 
leading from the bung to the reetum. The "rounds" are used 
for hologim, the "bungs" for bologna, ham, and blood sausage, 
and the "middles" for bologna and summer sausage. Hog cas- 
ings are made from the small intestines of the hog, and are u.sed 
mainly for pork link sausage. Sheep casings are from the small 
intestines of sheei>, and arc commonly used for wienerwurst and 
other small sausages. 

THE SMOKE-IIOURE 

The smoke-house shoidd be eight or ten feet high to give 
the best results, and of a size suited to the amount of meat 
likely to be smoked. One six by eight feet will be large enough 
for ordinary farm use. Ample ventilation should be provided 
to carry off the warm air in order to prevent overheating 
the meat. Small openings under the eaves or a chimney in the 
roof will be sufficient if arranged so as to be easily controlled. 
A fire-pot outside of the house proper, with a flue through which 
the smoke may be conducted to the meat chamber, gives the best 



PKESERVATION OF MEATS 269 

conditions for smoking. When this cannot well be arranged, a 
fire may be built on the floor of the house and the meat shielded 
by a sheet of metal. Where the meat can be hung six or seven 
feet above the fire this precaution need not be taken. The con- 
struction should be such as to allow the smoke to pass up freely 
over the meat and out of the house, though rapid circulation is 
at the expense of fuel. 

Brick or stone houses are best, though the first cost is greater 
than if they are built of lumber. Large dry-goods boxes and 
even barrels may be made to serve as smoke-houses where only 
small amounts of meat are to be smoked. The care of meat in 
such substitutes is so much more difficult and the results so much 
less satisfactory that a permanent place should be provided if 
possible. 

The following specifications were furnished by Major Law- 
rence Foot, of Little Rock, Ark. From these figures one can get 
an idea of the approximate cost of a small smoke-house. In dif- 
ferent localities the price of material and labor will vary some- 
what. This bill of lumber and specifications are for a smoke- 
house ten feet by sixteen feet, roof one-third pitch, with dirt 
floor and brick foundation : 

675 brick, $8 per 1000 $5.40 

Three squares of composition roofing 0.00 

Sills, 2 pieces, 4 X ^ inches, 10 feet long 64 feet 

Sills, 2 pieces, 4 X ^ inches, 10 feet long 40 feet 

Siding, 02 pieces, 1 X 1- in^^lu'S, 12 feet long 020 feet 

Battens, 52 pieces, V2 X ^ inches, 10 feet long 154 feet 

Rafters, 11 pieces, 2X4 inches, 10 feet long 117 feet 

Joists, 7 pieces, 2X0 inches, 10 feet long 70 feet 

Plates, 2 pieces, 2X4 inches, 10 feet long 13 feet 

Plates, 2 pieces, 2x4 inches, 10 feet long 21 feet 

Sheeting 300 feet 

On sides of door, 2 pieces, 2X4 inches, 10 feet long 13 feet 

Door battens, 1 piece, 1 X "* inches, 12 feet long 4 feet 

Total f(Ht ($14 per 1000) 1410 feet 19.82 



Total cost of above $31.22 



270 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

The above lumber will permit the roof to extend one foot over 
tlie gables and one foot over the sides. The sheeting is not worth 
as mueh as the other lumber; $8.78 additional will make the 
house cost about $40. This $8.78 should pay for the carpenter's 
work (two days should do it), bricklayer, mortar, hinges, pad- 
lock, and nails. 

On the ridfie of your roof you should have two ventilators, 
divided as follows: If house is sixteen feet long, one five feet 
from one end and the next five feet from the other ventilator; 
make same of galvanized sheet iron one foot long, in the shape 
of a pipe four inches in diameter; let six inches be above the 
ridge and six inches below, and so built on the ridge (the tinner 
can do that) as not to let the rain leak into your house. Use a 
loose wooden cover of sufficient weight to keep them (the covers) 
in place so us to fully opt-n or partly close, but always keep them 
a little open in order to make a slight draught to let the smoke 
out slowly and give a cool smoke. A ventilator at the bottom of 
your door will help this slicht draught, but the inside of same 
should be covered with close wire netting in order to keep out 
flies, and the same kind of netting tied tightly with wire should 
also be placed over and aroufid your roof ventilators for the 
same purpose. The house should be absolutely dark, "light- 
proof." This will keep out flies, which breed skippers. Put 
your foundation in the ground below frost line. 

Fuel. — The bust fuel for smoking meats is green hickory or 
maple wood smothered with sawdust of the same material. Hard 
wood of any kind is preferable to soft wood. Resinous woods 
should never be used, as they are likely to impart bad flavors to 
the product. Corn-cobs are the best substitute for hard wood, 
and may be used if desired. Soft wood and corn-cobs give oflE 
large amounts of carbon in bnrninsr, and that is deposited on the 
meat, making it dark in color and rank flavored. Juniper berries, 
fragrant woods, and apple parings are sometimes added to the 
firo to flavor the meat. 

Filling the House. — Meat that is to be smoked should be re- 
moved from the brine two or three days before being put in the 
smoke-house. If it has been cured in a strong brine, it will be 



PRESERVATION OF MEATS 271 

best to soak the pieces in cold water over night to prevent a 
crust of salt from forming on the outside when drained. Wash- 
ing the meat in tepid water and scrubbing clean with a brush is 
a good practice. The pieces should then be hung up to drain 
for a day or two. When drained, they may be hung in the house. 
All should be suspended from the joists and rafters below the 
ventilators, and should hang so that no two pieces come in con- 
tact, as this would prevent uniform smoking. 

Keeping up the Fire. — ^A slow fire may then be started, warm- 
ing up the meat gradually. During the winter months in cold 
climates it is best to keep the fire going continually until the 
smoking is complete, holding the temperature at about the same 
point. If the fire is allowed to die down, the meat becomes cold 
and the smoke does not penetrate readily. This results in heavy 
smoke on the outside and very little on the inner portions of the 
meat. During the spring months and in the summer a light fire 
may be started every second or third day for two weeks, the 
meat being allowed to hang in the smoke-house until sufficiently 
colored. When the fire is kept going steadily and an even tem- 
perature is maintained, twenty-four to thirty-six hours will be 
required to finish one lot of meat. Smoke will not penetrate 
frozen meat, and it will be necessary to extract all frost from it 
before filling the house. The house should be kept dark at all 
times to prevent flies entering. As soon as smoked sufficiently, 
the meat should be cooled by opening the ventilators or doors. 

KEEPING SMOKED MEATS 

When hard and finn the meat may be canvased or packed 
away for summer use. Smoked meat may also be 13ft in the 
smoke-house for some time during moderate weather. The house 
should be kept perfectly dark and well enough ventilated to 
prevent dampness. A dry, cool cellar or an attic with free cir- 
culation will be a satisfactory place for smoked meats at all 
seasons if it is kept dark and flies are excluded. A fine way to 
keep the smoked meat is to place the meat, when smoking is 
finished, skin down, in a single layer on a hanging table in the 
smoke-house. The table should be hung with wires so the mice 



272 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

cannot reach the meat. They can easily do this when the tables 
are hung with cords. Sift wood ashes over these hanging tables, 
place on them only one layer of meat, skin down, and cover 
ends, sides, and top completely with sifted ashes at least two 
inches thick. Make ashes from such woods as poplar, ash, Cot- 
tonwood, or such hard woods as hickory, maple, walnpt, etc. 
The ashes should be sifted until as fine as flour, and the meat 
can remain untouched and only removed as needed for the 
table. Hams so treated will keep remarkably well for several 
years. It is generally conceded that a bam attains its full excel- 
lence when it is a year old. 

This method seems to follow out the method used by the 
Westphalians in sraokinfr their hams, except that they allow them 
to hang until wanted for use, and once in a while, especially in 
damp weather, give them a little smoke. 

If to be kept only a short time, hams and bacon will need 
only to be hung out separately without covering. For longer 
keeping it will be necessary to wrap them first in heavy brown 
paper and then in burlap, canvas, or muslin and bury them in a 
grain bin or other suitable place, the object being to gain a uni- 
form temperature and to keep, away insects. A coat of ground 
pepper rubbed into the meat before wrapping will be distasteful 
to them. For absolute safe-keeping for an indefinite period of 
time it is essential that the meat be thoroughly cured. After 
it is smoked and has become dry on the surface it should be 
wrapped in parchment paper ; or clean wrapping paper will do 
where parchment paper cannot be had. Then inclose in heavy 
muslin or canvas, and cover with yellow wash or ordinary lime 
whitewash, glue being added. Hang each piece out so that it 
does not come in contact with other pieces. Do not stack in 
piles. 

Kecipe for Yellow Wash for Meat Canvas. — For 100 pounds 
hams or bacon take : 

3 pounds of barytes (bsrium 1 ounce ot rIhc 

sulfate) fi ounces of Hour 

1 ounce of chrome yellow 
(lead chromate) 



PRESERVATION OF MEATS 273 

Half fill a pail with water and mix in the flour, dissolving 
all lumps thorouj^hly. Dissolve the chrome in a quart of water 
in a separate vessel and add the solution and the g\ne to the flour ; 
bring the whole to a boil and add the barytes slowly, stirring 
constantly. ]\Iake the wash the day before it is required. Stir 
it frequently when using, and apply with a brush. 

Cooking Ham. — Hams cured without sugar in the salt to 
sweeten them will perhaps be better if boiled by the follow- 
ing recipe. The sugar placed in the kettle will in a great 
measure add to the sweetness of the ham, and if the ham has 
taken too much salt the sugar wall help that fault also to some 
extent. 

A Combination Virginia and Louisiana Recipe. — Immerse and 
soak the ham or shoulder in water the night before cooking (if 
one year old or over, soak twenty-four houi^s), then wash thor- 
oughly in tepid water. The ham is then placed, skin down, in 
a boiler full of })oiling water. After putting in the water, add 
a teaeupful (*aeh of sugar and vinegar. The temperature should 
then b(» allowed to lower slightly and the water just kept gently 
simmering several hours, with the top on the kettle. As the 
water boils out, add fresh boiling water, and always keep the 
boiler full. By putting it in boiling water the albumin is co- 
agulated at once on the surface of the ham and much of the 
juices and flavors kept in until cooked. When the ham is done 
it will turn over, skin up, and the meat will leave the bone in 
the leg for an inch. After the ham is cooked, take kettle and 
all off the stove, skim off the impurities, and let it cool off in 
the water in which it has cooked, as it will reabsorb part of 
the nutriment and juices which have been drawn out during 
cooking, and the shrinkage is much less than if taken out imme- 
diatelv. 

Baking Ham. — The following day remove outside skin, stick 
with cloves one-half inch apart, and cover the ham well with 
brown sugar and bake, basting it frequently with cider. "When 
it is well baked, take it out of the oven and baste another ten to 
twenty minutes in the pan on top of the stove. The sugar crust 
should be quite brown and crisp when done. 

18 



274 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

QUESTIONS 

1. What metliodi have been usrd for centurieB in thu preservation of meatl 

2. Why should meat be cured as soon as possible after the animal heat 

has been lust! 

3. Why can you not depend ii)Kin tlie result if fro/«n meat be cured or 

smoked ? 

4. Why IB lirine-cured meat more prattieal than dry-cured alien the meat is 

cured at home! 

5. For wliat muat tht' brine be watched closely, eBjiecially during warm 

weather! What are the cauBcs of the brine spoiling t What caremnst 
be given it and the meat in it if a hrine is found to he spoiled! 
0. Why nlu'-t the meat be weighted so tliat every portion is kept under the 

7. Wliat cut of iH'ef in usually selected ah the nicer portion to dry! ilow 

siiould it I* cut! 

8. Di'tiiTtlie the pnui'SN of curing and the time taken to accomplish it. 



uniLIOORAPTlY 

1. BrTTiNO, A. W. and K. (J., "Canning and How to Use Canned Foods," 

l!»ll>. Pulilished l.y the N'flfLonal Canners' Association, Washington, 
I>. ('. tm cents. 

2. HosK, Andrkw, ■■ Meat nii the Kami: liutchcring. Curing, and Keeping," 

lilOti, Kaniii-rs^ llnlh'lin litt. Cnitiil StHtes l)e]iartment of Agricul- 
tnri'. Can lie purchased from the Superintendent of Documents, 
Covornnicnt Printing Ollice, Waahin^ton, 1). C. 5 centB. 

3. Catii am. Varbci. ■■ Human Farm Manageinent," done into English, with 

notes of iniiileni instances, by a Vir-^.inia Farmer, 1(11.1. Puhlishcd 
by the Mucmillan Cnniiiany. New York City, N. Y. $2. 

4. Foot, I.awhemk. " How lo ^iake as fJond Hams in Any Stote as are 

Made in Virginia,"' Tnivcrsity of Arkansas. Published by the Ex- 
tension nivi«ion of the miversity of Arkansas, Fayett^ville, Ark. 

5. F<ioT. I.awuk.vck, "' How l<i Cure. Smoke, and Keep Hams. Shouldera, and 

Bacon." l!)l,-i. Published hy the Kxtenaion Division, University of 
Arkansas, Fayetteville. Ark. 
(i. Fox. Mis.MK C, "llhie Crass Conk Rook," 1004. Published by Vox, 
nullield & Co.. New York City. N. Y. ifL-lCI. 

7. IlAMEL, (;. T„ "ModiTM Practice of Canning Meats," 1!)11. Puhllahed 

by tiie Hrecht Company. St. Louis, Mo. $i<. 

8. IIausneb. A„ " The Manufacture of Proaervcd Foods and Sweetmeat*," 

1012. Piiblishcil hy Send. Creenwood & Son, London. J3, 



CHAPTER XVII 

USE OF FRUITS AND VEGETABLES IN THE DIET 

Fruits and vegetables would be welcome on our tables if it 
were only for their beauty of form and color, and for the pleas- 
ing variety of flavors which they give to our meals. Consider- 
ing, however, that besides being attractive to the eye and the 
taste they are absolutely necessary for health and for physical 
well-being, it seems worth while to make every effort to use them 
as freely as we can afford to. It is the part of wisdom, also, to 
preserve them in times of plenty for use in times of scarcity and 
high prices. 

These foods should not be undervalued because thev cannot 
supply all that is needed in the diet. They cannot take the 
place of meat or milk, to be sure, or of bread or butter, but they 
are as important in their places as these other more substantial 
foods are in theirs. 

The healthful diet, as a whole, should supply a large number 
of substances, which, for convenience, may be here grouped 
under four heads : 

First, fuel. This is needed by the body much as the locomo- 
tive needs coal as a source of energy or of power to do work. The 
greater part of the fuel of the body is provided by fats, sugar, 
and starch. 

Second, protein. This, like fat, sugar, and starch, is a fuel, 
but, unlike them, it siipplies many of the materials needed by 
the body of the child for making new tissues, and by the bodies 
of the grown persons for making good the losses in the bodily 
maehin(»ry that are constantly taking place as the result of the 
wear and tear of work. 

Third, non-burnable or mineral-building materials. These 
substances, like protein, are needed by the young for growth 
and by all as a means of keeping the body in good repair. 

276 



276 SUCCESSFLT. CASNIXC AND PltESERVlN'G 

Fourth, certain newly discovered substanees which are be- 
lieved to be jrrowth-pi-oiuotinjr and body-rej^lating, and there- 
fore needed to keep the Iiiiniau niaehiiie in Rood running order. 
These substanees correspond with the cleaning materials and the 
lubricating oils usi^d on the locomotive. They neither serve as 
fuel nor enter into tbe structure of the liody, but have an im- 
portant part to play in its operation. 

In considerini: tlie necessary nutrients of the body in tho 
order in which they are li.sted above, we come first to those which 
cannot be supplied in any very lar^ie measure by fn'sh fruits and 
vegetables. Apples, oranges, turnips, asparagus, and, in fact, 
all the fruits and vegetaliles contain large amounts of water, 
usually eight jiatts out of ten by weight. In some cases, par- 
ticularly those of the sueeident vegetables like lettuce, eucura- 
bers, and tuuiatoi's, water constitutes i>ver 00 per cent of the 
weight. Thiv have tlir same relation to hnlter, oil, and other 
fats as fui-ls fur tbe body as soft wmul or paper has to coal 
when eiinsiii.-ri'ii a^ fuels for a loi'ornolive. Kven thost' who eat 
fruits and vein 'tallies ViTv freely seldom u'l't from them, iu the 
course of a liay, inore ihan a tenth of the eneriry ihey ui-ed for 
their work. 

Xor can fruits ;uii] vewtables he used as ibe eliief souree of 
protein. This is best sujiplii'd by milk iu the ease of the child, 
and by milk, meat, e!,".:n. and eh-'ese in the ease of grown per- 
sons. AirmriL' the foods usually clas.sed as vegetables, only the 
dried legumes — navy beans, peaiuits. soy beans, ami others — i)ro- 
vide mueb i>roleiii. Taken as a whole, tbe vegetables seldom 
provide mure than five i)er cent of all the juotein needed iu the 
course of a day {Plate III). 

The statement of the uses to which fruits and vegetables 
cannot be put clears the ground for an iniJerstandiiig of their 
veiy great usefulness in other particulars. A.ii sources of min- 
eral-buildinir substances, parlieularly inm, they are invaluable. 
This should not be taken to mean that without fruits and vege- 
tables the diet would be entirely laekinu' in iron, for it is pres- 
ent in large amounts iu lean meats, egg yolks, eereals, and other 
; common foods. In Ibi-se last-menliojieil sub.stauci's, however, iron 



PI^TE III 



U.S Department of Agriculture 

OfficeoF Experinwlt Stations 

A.CTruet Director 

c@iMii?>@sinni©iKi @F 



FVotM 



Fat 



S^^ 



Corbohydntfes Ash 



rreporBd by 
aF:LANGWOR"mY 
Ej^eKin Charge of Nutrition hvestigationi 

Fuel Vakie 
ISaKEquds 
1000 Coloriet 



Water 




SDiieiLiL,e@ isiMi i^i^sca, 



Fat;0.6 




Walen58.9 
Carbohydrates: 29 .1 



^^ 'ateRl2.e 
FVttonr22^ 



FVxjtein; 9.4-5^t- — ^Aah:2.0 
Fuel valul: 



740 





CAL0HIE5 PER POUND 



CarboH^rates:59.6 

Fuel value: 



1600 




CALORIES PET? POUND 



STG^Da® eSAIM^@I^SKi. 



Carbohydrates:/. 



Water: 89.2 




CALORIES PER POUND 



EOBLE PORTION 



Water: 75 .4 



Rnotein: 3.1 



Carboh^ates:l9.7 



sh:0.7 




500 CALORICS 
PER POUND 

(Coiirtvsy, Office uf IIuuiv Kconuniicit, U.S. I>epurtnM*nt of Aipicultun'.) 

Food Chabt 






J 



FRUITS AND VEGETABLES IN THE DIET 277« 

is combined with a large amount of fuel in the form, sometimes 
of protein, sometimes of starch, sugar, or fat. If, therefore, 
meats, egtrs, cereals, etc., are eaten in large enough amounts to 
supi)ly iron, they provide too much fuel for the body, and this, 
if not burned out to supply energy, is likely to be deposited in 
the form of fat. Unless fruits and vegetables are freely eaten, 
therefore, one of two unfortunate conditions is likely to exist: 
Either the diet will be deficient in iron, or it will be too ** hearty." 
It is because of their very wateriness that fruits and vegetables 
can be freely used as a source of iron and other mineral sup- 
plies without overloading the body with other substances. 

In the diet of children fruits and vegetables are particularly 
useful. ^lilk, which is an indispensable part of their food, con- 
tains plenty of linu^ and some iron. The iron, however, is in- 
sufficient for health. Soiips and other dishes made out of milk 
and spinach or other vegetables are therefore important items 
in the diet of children. 

Of tile many other ways in which fruits and vegetables help 
to keep the body in order it will be sufficient to speak here only 
of two or three. First, tliey give bulk to the diet, and for this 
reason are believed to have an imj)ortant part to play in the 
digestion of other foods. Their delicate, fibrous framework con- 
sists of a su})stance called cellulose, which is not digested. The 
cellulose, therefore, remains unchanged as it passes through the 
digestive organs and serves to ]) re vent other foods from settling 
down into comi)act mass<\s. Whether this is the whole explana- 
tion of tht' laxative efTect of these foods or not is still uncertain. 
It is ])robable that the mild acids and mineral substances which 
all of them contain contribute toward the same end. However 
that may be, they serve in some way to keep the food from 
accunuilating in the intestines until it undergoes undesirable 
decomposition. 

There is also a theory that fruits and V(*getables have an im- 
portant part to play in offsetting certain substances that are 
produeed in the digestion of meat, poultry, fish, etrjrs, etc. A cer- 
tain amount of these last-mentioned foods is needed for bodv- 
building purposes. Without fruits and vesretables, however, thev 



278 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AXD PRESERVING 



would, according ti) the theory, be left io the unfortunate posi- 
tion of having performed a great service to the body and then of 
being obliged to injure it. Accompanied by fruits and vege- 
tables, they do their beneficent work and then are transformed 
into harmless substances in preparation for being eliminated from 
the body. 

It is now generally believed that the tnore meat and eggs a per- 
son eats the more fruits and vegetables he needs. To think, there- 
fore, that because one has eaten a large amount of meat he needs 
no vegetables or fruit is a mistake, for under these circumstances 
he needs vegetables and fruits more than if a small amount of 




meat only had been eaten (Fig. 130), In a heavy meal of meat, 
therefore, allowance shoidd be made for fruits and vegetables. 
If neces.sary, this should be done by the cutting down of fats and 
sweets. A meat or vegetable salad or fruit for dessert follows 
more logically after a heavy meat course than such desserts as 
suet puddings or pie (Fig, 131). 

It should be remembered, also, that while such foods as 
boiled rice, macaroni, and hominy are often eaten with meat or 
combined with it in the raakinp: of extremely attractive dishes, 
they are not substitutes for potatoes in the diet. When one of 
them is served with meat the housekeeper should think of it 
not as a substitute for vegetables, but rather as taking the place 



fltUlTS AND VEdKTABLICS IN THK IMKT 2?9 

of part of the bread usually eaten at the meal, for rice, macaroni, 
or honiiuy has exactly the same uses in tlie diet that bread haa. 
She should, theriifore, take particular pains to supply some other 
vegetable in the form of a salad or of fruit for dessiTt in meals 
which contain meat but uo potatoes. 

Finally, fruits and vcKetables are an important source of 
certain recently diseoverfd substances, sometimes called vita- 
mines, which are thought to promote i;rowth in ebildren and 
to have an important part to play in keei)in!f all people, old as 
well as young, in good physical condition. 

Fig. 191. Fia 132. 



What has Ix-cn said so far about the nutritive value of 
fruits and vcKctaltlea applies to them when they are fresh and 
undried. After they have lieen dried they an; no longer watery 
fooils, but contain a very large percentage of nourishing ma- 
terial. Beans and peas, when dried, contain mon; protein than 
meat dees, and even after they have been soaked in water and 
cooked Ihey are eonsidcri'd good substitutes for meat and eggs. 
It is well, therefore, for the liousekeepcr, when she plans meals, 
to class the dried legumes with the meats. 

The well-ordered meal contains good bread, or n cereal food 



2»> 



«i;'XX««Fl'L CWStSn \SD PEE=EBnXC 



»fnrt^ in Mrm« 'jth>rr atirx^tiri- trav -, a little f-xx] frr>m the meat 
«r meat «iii*-lituf*^. i-ii'riisY. t'l insar^ sufficient prtitein: a little 
boiler <(r <»tK'-r fai iv triTe richiierv-; a littlr: s^jgar or other 
Bweet U( fun.ish i?av'.r. ati'l. last but not lea-t, a vrtetable or a 
fruit Fiif. Vi2 . These t:re kind* «.f f<-rf shouM all be repr^ 
»eijte<) in the 'liet at all times. The varie-i dift which ci'mtains all 
of the«e five kinds of fixid is needrd l'> make a perfect ration. If 
one U lackintf. th" di-rl will be defiei-nt in sttTat thin? needed for 
health or iialatabilily. Thf time was when the winter diet was 




Pia J33.— ',«i.r*d Mpi 



always onc-sidfl tj-caiis*- of the alisencc of fniil and vecetahles. 
That tiiii': is imw jia.-'t, or >hf(iild 1"-. for with our pn-sjut kiiowl- 
edgif and skill in canning and im-sening fruit.* and vegetables 
we may la-ily have a i-omplete ration all the year round 
(^ Fit's. V.V'. aud i:{4,. 

(;l USTIONS 
t I't.olll'l l>- iiii'lll.l.-'l ill a )ir~j]||,fii[ dirt— slatin;; 






n l].<- 



-iy. 



'i. Wliy ar.! fniitf ami v.-u-tal.|.- alis-.liit.'ly n.--.>-ary f'.r health and 

I>liy-i''al w.-1|.1rit,L'? 
3. Wliat MinKtitiitp- a lialani'e'l im-al whi-n a lar;^: jHirtiiin of mi-at is served? 
I. .Vaimr Himi- fuhj-litiil'-i f'lr l-ri'sd and mitlini' Iwn dJiiiliinationg for a 

rii>-al H-hicli cnrilaiiis tliirx- (^ulintituli-H. 
n. What Ni-wly dixiivi-ri'd -i.l.,tHii.r \:a< U-'-n f..iiiid in fruits and vejte- 

taldc«? Wliat i^ tlip fiimli.m of tlii-si- substann-^t 
fi. Wliat ilri.d vca.-tali1-s ran )«. BiiMitiitfd f..r i.i^at ! 
7. Wliat ii> contaim-'l in a «-ll-ori|i.ml nifal? 
fi. Tlim- can yoil [dan to liavp tlii» r..m|ileti' ratinn all the year! 



FRUITS AND VEGETABLES IN THE DIET 



281 



1. 
2. 

3. 
4. 



5. 



6. 



/. 



8. 



9. 
10. 



11. 



12. 



l:j. 



U. 



BIHLIOUIUPHY 

Barrows, Anna, and Lincoln, M. J., ** Homo Science Cook Book," 
1904. Published by VVhiteomb & Barrows, Boston, Mass. $1. 

Bitting, A. W. and K. G., '* Canning and How to Use Canned Foods," 
1910. Published by the National Canners' Association, Washington, 
I). C. 30 cents. 

"Creole Cook Book,'* 1914. Published by The Picayune, New Orleans, 
I^. By mail, $1.25. 

Davidis, Hknriette, " Practical Cook Book," 1897. Published by C. N. 
Casper, Milwaukee, Wis. $1.25. 

Farmer, Fannie Merritt, '* Boston Cooking School Cook Book," 1907. 
Published by Little, Brown & Co., Boston. ^lass. $1.80. 

Fox, Minnie C., " Blue (^.rass Cook Book," 1904. Published by Fox, 
Duflield & Co., New York City, N. Y. $1.50. 

French, Allen, " T\w Book of Vegetables and Garden Herbs," 1870. 
Published by the Macniillau Company, New York City. N. Y. $1.75. 

KiNNE. Helen, and Coolev, Anna M., " Fomls and Household Manage- 
ment," 1915. Published by the Macmillan Com])any, New York City, 
N. Y. $1.10. 

Lippincott's Home Manual on Food. 

Spring, Helen M., " Indiviilual Uecij>es in Use at Drexel Institute," 
1909. Publislied by Jolin C. Winston Company, Philadelphia, Pa. 
25 cents. 

South worth, May E., " 101 Mexican Dishes," 1914. Publislied by Paul 
Elder & Co., San Francisco, Calif. 75 cents. 

" I'ncle Sam's Cook liook," a price list of bulletins on foods and cook- 
ing, American foods and cooking, United States (Jovernment. The 
Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Wash- 
ington, D. C. 

Wilson, Klizauetii L., and HuoorNS, Mollie, "Good Tilings to Eat." 
1909. Publislied by the Publishing House of the M. E. Church, 
South, Smith & Lamar, Agents, Nashville, Tenn. $3. 

Bosk, ^Iauy Swartz, '* Feeding the Family." Published by Macmillan 
Company, New York City. N. Y. $2.10. 



CHAPTKR XVIII 

CANNING CLUB ORGANIZATION 

Canning Club and Home Demonstration Work is conducted 
under the cooperative agreement between the several state col- 
lets of agriculture and the I'nited States Department of Agri- 
culture. In the South all this work is directed by the organiza- 
tion of state and county agents. In the North and West this work 
is part of the Boys' and Girls' Club Work and is superv-ised by 
state leaders, assistant leaders, district workers, and, in some 
places, county agents. In the 41it countirs organized in the South 
in UUti there were about (id.OIK) girls enrolled to carrj- on can- 
ning and poultry club work, together witli related activities in 
sewing, co<jking, and gardening. 

Aim. — One of the objects of the work is to develop a skill that 
shall increase the economic earnings of girls and women in the 
country. Their home has many functions not performed by the 
city home. It is a producing as well as a consuming center, Ita 
contribution to the income of the farm, especially in saving the 
waste and expense of eoudueting farming operations, often meas- 
ures the difference between profitable fanning and unprofitable 
farming. The skill and business ability of farm housewives and 
children are a notable contribution to the economic resources of 
the farm. In many cases incomes must he increased before stand- 
ards of living can Iw raised or progressive community cnterprisea 
fostered. Proceeding upon this basis, the work in the South haa 
added materially to the wealth, health, and happiness of country- 
people. 

Financing the Work. — In the beginning, generous financial 
help from the General Education Board — the corporate trustees 
of a fund of more than i|>50, 000,000 given by John D. Rockefeller 
for educational purposes — made possible the free development of 
this work. This was soon followed by state and county appro- 
priations. In 1914 Congress made appropriations to take the 



CANNING CLUB ORGANIZATION 283 

place of those being made by the General Education Board, and 
the Smith-Lever Extension Act of 1914 brought its first Federal 
appropriations in 1915, thus giving permanent support to demon- 
stration work in agriculture and home economics. In 1917 there 
was in the 15 Southern an organization of about 500 counties 
supervised by 13 state, 21 assistant state, 15 district, and 494 
county agents, making a total of 543. 

During 1914-1915 in forty states slightly over $320,000 was 
spent in home economics demonstrations, while in 1916-1917 
in forty-eight states $750,000 was allotted, an increase of over 
130 per cent in two years. This money was derived from the 
United States Department of Agriculture, the state colleges of 
agriculture, Federal anl state cooperative extension act funds, and 
county and other local sources. In 1916 the allotment of funds 
for extension work for farm women was derived from the follow- 
ing sources: $107,000 from funds appropriated directly to the 
United States Department of Agriculture, $260,000 from Federal 
extension act funds, $120,000 from state extension act funds, 
$32,000 from direct state appropriations in addition to the 
amount appropriated by the state to offset the Federal coopera- 
tive extension funds, $178,000 from county appropriations, and 
about $80,000 from other miscellaneous sources.^ 

Initial Work. — Following the development of United States 
Farm Demonstration Work as a means of instructing farm men 
and subsequently of boys' coni clubs, because boys also insisted 
upon being enrolled as " demonstrators,'' there was a very in- 
sistent demand for activities for girls which should give them 
opportunity to carry on skilful work in their homes and enter into 
friendly contest with one another. The opportunity to influence 
and instruct adults through the interests of their children was 
recognized from the first. 

Activities which have fundamental connection with every 
country home, and which involve the need for accurate informa- 
tion and skill in doing, were selected. During 1910 some girls' 
tomato clubs were organized in South Carolina and Virginia, with 

*NoTE. — Statement, also table showing total amount of funds avail- 
able for extension work among farm women, is quoted from the " Weekly 
News T^etter " of the U. S. Department of Agriculture. 



HUCCESSKUl, CANNING AND PRCSERVINO 



Women County Auestm t 



l.MH 



.7 I iS 



1,100 

44.624 

31:34 
2,60U 
2,100 

.U.'S0D 

4.200 

in.zoo 



CANNING CLUB ORGANIZATION 285 

the aid of teachers and other school oflRcials. These girls culti- 
vated tenth-acre plots of tomatoes, following some simple in- 
structions furnished by the Office of Farm Demonstration Work, 
and canning their vegetables under the instruction of one of its 
representatives. The results of this experiment were made the 
basis during the next year for the organization of from two to 
four counties each in the states of South Carolina, Virginia, and 
Mississippi, under the leadership of women who were appointed 
to take charge of each state and with the aid of a few county 
workers whose services were secured for brief periods in the can- 
ning season. In V.)V2 eleven states had workers in charge with 
160 counties organized, and in 1917 every Southern state was 
organized, and similar plans are rapidly developing in the North 
and West. 

The State Agent. — In the beginning of the girls' canning club 
work a state* agent or organizer was appointed. To help her in 
each county organized, a capable woman was secured for about 
two months in the year to hold the canning demonstrations in the 
summer and give what volunteer \uAp she ecmld in spring and fall. 
The clubs were organized and the first instruction was given 
through the schools where the girls could be met in groups. Cor- 
respondence and an occasional visit fi'om the county agent had 
to suffice as instruction and supervision until the canning season 
opened, when regular field meetings, in way of canning demon- 
strations for groups of members, were held at central points in the 
county. Again. in autumn, the collecting of results and the hold- 
ing of an exhibit of canned products were largely volunteer work 
of the county agent. The results which these workers obtained 
were so nota])le that in a short time this general plan was adopted 
permanently, the ])eriod of employment for the county agent in- 
creasing rapidly to nine or twelve months. 

The girls' canning clul)S. with a tenth-acre garden as the basis 
of eacli individual 's work, have made possible a gradually evolved 
four years' program of work which thousands of girls have 
eagerly entered upon. Each year finds a larger percentage of 
these girls continuing the program and finishing the season's 
activities. As in all real demonstration work, the girl becomes 
a ** demonstrator. " She agrees to follow instructions and use 



286 SUCCESSFXJL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

approved methods ; her work and its results being accomplished 
with more skill, greater efficiency, and showing finer quality than 
that which has heretofore been known, become an object lesson for 
others and the center of in- 
fluence in the home and com- 
tnunity. Each season brings 
its characteristic activity of 
natural work, accompanied 
by the stimulus of individual 
ownership and group contests 
in skill and definite accom- 
plishment. 

Four-year Program of 
Work, — Since the mastery of 
some definite phase of work 
is essential for each year, a 
systematic program has been 
H-iii'kcd out. During the first 
vi'ur the girls select tomatoes 
as their main crop, learning 
a great deal about the cultiva- 
tion of this vegetable and how 
to market both fresh and 
cainicd products. They ac- 
quire considerable horticul- 
tural skill in managing their 
gardens. The financial rec- 
ords they keep give a good 
business training. For the 
public demonstrations which 
they give for the benefit of 
their communities, these girls 
find it necessary to make at- 
Agrtcuiiart. tractive uniforms, aprons, 

caps, towels, holders, etc. This gives sewing a very definite place 
in their work, and it is done for a special purpose rather than 
for the sake of a lesson. 




CANNING CLUB OKGANIZATION 287 

An instance of the use of such uniforms is given in tlie report 
of a county agent, as follows : 

" The meeting at Pheba was especially intcreBting. Sixteen canning 
club girla in white unifono, cap, and apron gave a progroni with club songi 
and yells. Afterwards tbej served a two-course luncheon to the mothers 
and teachers. The latter were especially iotereated and announced their 
intention of going bttck to their schools and have their club members make 
caps and aprons and learn the club iionfn<." 




Thi- usp of thp.w uniforms hns a tendency to make popular 
suitable working clothes for girla and women. Advanced girls 
continue their sewing by making uniform dresses of appropriate 
design and material. In a nnmber of the states they have chosen 
pink or blue chambray for their dress material, each member hav- 



288 SUCCESSFUL CAmflNG AND PRESERVING 

ing the privilege of choosing either color she prefers. With this 
eombination of attractive pink and blue dresses, with white uni- 
form aprons and caps, a group of these girls, with their county 
agents in all-wliite, resemble a huge bunch of sweet peas. Tan 
or gray linen crash makes very neat uniforms when worn with 
the white aprons. In some sections near the coast where colored 
material qiiiekly fades, white uniforms are more satisfactory for 




canning work. Of course, tlie uniform dress worn for this work 
should be light weight, and of such material as can be often and 
easily washed. In 1916, in 419 organized counties in the 15 South- 
ern States, 21,172 girls reported the making of 23,767 aprons, 
caps, holders, and towels, and .1875 uniform dresses to be worn tor 
public demonstrations (Fig. 135). 

The white dresses are not appropriate for the garden work 
among vines and dirt, as they soil easily and are likely to become 



CANNING CLUB ORGANIZATION 



289 



stained. The gardening uniform which has been adopted in some 
sections is the bloomer and middy blouse combination. The 
regular gymnasium bloomers are suitable for this purpose. Women 
working in agriculture because of war conditions abroad adopted 
the bloomers for reason of comfort, convenience, and economy. 
The bloomer overalls for women are on the market in America, 
and have been adopted in several factories (Pigs. 136, 137, 
and 138). 

An attractive gardening set consisting of an apron for tools 
and a kneeling pad might be made of matting, burlap, denim, 




oilcloth, or heavy canvas. Matting lined with brown denim and 
bound with red tape makes an attractive color combination 
and is very suitable material, because the color does not show 
soil easily. 

This equipment is easily made and will be found most useful 
in the garden, especially during the transplanting seasons. The 
making of the garden kneeling pad and apron gives opportunity 
for teaching something about sewing and will arouse more interest 
in garden work. The garden pad is used to kneel upon when 
planting seeds and transplanting plants. This work can be done 



290 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

with more ease and comfort, and the use of the pad and apron 
will protect the clothing a great deal when working in the garden. 
The pocket arrangement in the pad is convenient for carrying the 
timall plants which are to be transplanted. The apron is a com- 
panion piece and is used for carrying tools — jtlanting stick, 
pruning shears, trowel, and garden line. A small pocket for seeds 
might be stitched on the front of the middle pocket to make the 
apron a little more complete {Fig. 163, p. 341). 

During the second year two vegetable crops are cultivated, 
these being chosen with definite regard to home needs and mar- 
keting conditions. In addition to the canned vegetables, many 
clubs market soup mixtures, sauces, and special prodiicts which 
have been originated for them, like Dixie relish and B. S. Chutney. 
Sewing is continued in the making of uniform dresses of attrac- 
tive and appropriate design and material. 

During the next two years perennial gardens are started and 
either small fruits or perennial vegetables, suited to the locality 
or especially attractive for market, are planted. Many girls 
who have proceeded thus far are ready to make a reputation for 
special products from Southern fruits, such as the fig, seupper- 
nong, May haw, and guava, or to succeed admirably with the 
Spanish pepper, for which a great demand exists. The prepara- 
tion of their vegetable products for the table and contests in 
bread making are given considerable place. In many instances 
winter gardening is carried on extensively. 

With the increased supply of wholesome food, by means of 
the fall garden, canning and poultry club products, the agent has " 
a wouderful opportunity in the fall and winter to get into the 
kitchens and teach (he preparation and combination of these 
products for serving. 



Call meeting to ordvr. Organize. 

Uistriliute liaily record lK)oks, explain Bame and urge tlie im[>ortance 
of attending all elub meetinjts. loesl, sprini; and fnll ralliea, institute, 

DiBcuss soil beat suited to tomatoes, Bordeaux mixture, construction of 
liotliiKl and cold frame (aliow moilel, it possiblp), and clioiee of seed. 
'By Mis9 Minnie I,. Garrison, Couilt.v Afient. Edgemoor, S. C. 



CANNING CLUB ORGANIZATION 291 

March 

Call meeting to order. Roll-call. Minutes (review of last lesson). 
Reports of work done since last meeting. 

Measurement of one-tenth acre plot and preparation. 

Transplanting to cold frames, etc. 

Bookbinding for cook books, histories, etc. 

Game or club veil. 

April 

Call meeting to order. Roll-call. Minutes. 

Vary with bread and poultry program. 

Bread. — Judging bread. 

Distribute helpful bulletins. 

Refreshments — eggs in nest or golden rod. 

Poultry. — Talks on poultry, breeds, hatching, etc. 

Demonstrate candling or testing eggs. 

Decorate Easter eggs or have egg hunt. Remind girls of true meaning 
of Easter. 

Kodak pictures. 

May 

Call meeting to order. Roll-call. Minutes. 

Plain sewing, based on unifonn cap and apron. Apron party. 

Distribute copies of club songs and yells. Practice same for spring 
meeting. 

Other instructions concerning special meeting. 

June 
Call meeting to order. Roll-call. Minutes. Reports on benefits de- 
rived from liaving attended spring meetings. 
Studv cultural instructions. 
Visit plot and give comments. 

Demonstrations. Pruning and staking, repeat Bordeaux spray, etc. 
Discuss cook books, recipes, and drawings for same. 
Serve salads, utilizing vegetables. 
Ko<lak pictures, music. 

July 
FiroU'ss cooker. Canning demonstration. 
Call meeting to order. Roll-call. Minutes. 
List of canning supplies, literature prepared in advance. 
Canning demonstration, using fruit and vegetables. 
Emphasize grading, sterilization, full pack, attractive pack and quality. 
• Dinner. 
Get together, talk over morning's work. Demonstrate jelly making. 
Suggest '• Canning Christmas Presents." 
Distribute literature before leaving. 
Songs and yells. 



292 SUCCESStTJL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

Call meetiDg t« order. Roll-rail. Minutes. 
Practice canning spfcial products, 
liasket making. 

Heplember 
Literary program. Short buaineitii niei^ting. 
Roll-call — answer nitli current events, etc. Magazine article or report 
on interesting tilirary book. 

Read sketch of Doctor Knapp's life. 

Word building, using letters composing club motto. 

Pulztt — dissected labels. 

Show pictures of good exhibits witli projector if possible. 

Ocloher 
Call meeting to order. Roll-call. Minutes. 

Go over records again. Sum up. 

Uemoiistratc laJicUing, packing, etc, for fairs. 

Judging canned goodx. 

AHsigii work for girls during fair. 

Cooperation Between School and Home— It can be easily 
seen that all of thfse activities are carried on in the home and 
form an integral part of the life of the girla themselves, but every- 
where th<' schools are taking a very active part in promoting this 
work. The cwperatinn of the teacher is always essential. 

In each enninuuiity organized the girls are selected and en- 
rolled throuph the achonl early enough to undertake gardening 
After the chib miMiibefs have been enrolled and they have selected 
plots for their one-tenth acre gardens the teacher can render valu- 
able assistance. With her aid the girls study the instructions for 
the purpose of securing information a-s to how tn carry on the 
work at home. Tlie teacher giving the best cooperation correlates 
the work with regular lessons in reading, arithmetic, language, 
drawing, and really makes it a part of the school life. She often 
organizes the members into clubs and holds the first meeting at 
the school. Here they are taught the construction of a hotbed 
or cold frame, and sometimes one is built on the south side of the 
school building: plants are raised in it for the home gardens, and 
a number of lessons are based on the planting and care of these 
beds. When these plants have grown large and strong enough 



CANNING CLUB ORGANIZATION 298 

to transplant, a meeting is planned at the home of some club mem- 
ber, where they learn the principles of transplanting. 

Club work furnishes constant opportunity to enliven school- 
room routine with vital interests and fine motives for study. 
Many instances of the helpful reaction which these clubs have 
upon the schools have been reported. In a similar way they give 
the schools a better opportunity to bring influences to bear di- 
rectly upon the homes. 

Community Activities. — By the time school closes the work 
has reached an interesting stage and the club members continue 
to work together. At this season the county agent meets with 
the clubs on the one-tenth acre plot, gives cultural instructions, 
and makes preparation for the canning work. Midsummer brings 
the canning season, and here again at the home of the club mem- 
ber having the first ripe tomatoes the girls of the community 
meet to work together, with the county agent demonstrating how 
to take each step in the canning, and the girls doing the actual 
work under her supervision. After one or two such demonstra- 
tions the girls acquire sufficient experience to give a public 
demonstration in canning, at which the neighbors are taught 
what the girls are already skilled in doing. 

Cooperation for community development or benefit to the 
group is now beginning among farm people. Club members 
often undertake it more readily than their parents. 

Instances of neighborly cooperation are not rare. One county 
agent reported that upon visiting one little girl, named Gladys, 
she found that she had been ill for two weeks and unable to set 
out her tomato plants, which were fast becoming too large to be 
transplanted easily. Upon the agent 's visit to the next home she 
reported the instance, and a member of the same club immediately 
suggested that they get together and do the transplanting. In a 
short time six girls met at Gladys's home. The little sick girl 
was able to be carried out in a chair and sit in the shade to watch 
the others happy at work transplanting the tomatoes for her. 
Words failed and tears came instead when she tried to thank her 
friends for this kindness. 

A county agent reported that the home of one of her club 



294 SUCCESSFUL CAlfNINQ AND PRESERVING 

members was destroyed by fire. Before she liad opportunity to 
visit this community, the president of the club had called a meet- 
ing and its members had arranged to give a "shower" of canned 
products to the club member to whose family tliis loss had oc- 
curred. 

\ot only is individual initiative aroused, but elements of lead- 
ership are developed in country communities where they are most 
needed. As a means of developing leadership, many state schools 
give short courses for prize-winning club members from the 
various counties. These girls have proved their efficiency by suc- 
cessful work and already pos.sess qualitiis of leadership. Upon 
being given definite instructioD in even a few lines of work they 
can be inspired to return to their communities and extend to 
others the same aid. These girls frequently become the officers 
of their clubs and the local representatives through whom the 
county agent works in developing many community enterprises. 

During one .short course each prize winner gave the story of 
her year's work and told how she spent the money earned from 
her tenth-acre garden. One girl had for two successive years paid 
her expenses at the county high school out of her earnings; an- 
other was helping her brother through college : another purchased 
a fine cow, and still another enabled her father to hold his cotton 
until spring by making her funds available for certain family 
expenses. In every instance the business experience was one 
which reflected dignity and judgment. 

The County Agent. — It can \k readily seen that the centers 
of influence in demonstralion work are the farms and homes 
where individuals, perhaps a modest little girl or qniet, home- 
loving woman, make the demonstrations which teach a lesson to an 
entire community. This les.son carries greater weight and is 
more convincing than if made by a skilled specialist from a dis- 
tant institution, but it can lie accomplished successfully only 
when there exists an organization whose leaders have won perma- 
nent place in the confidence and affection of the people with 
whom they work. In the organization of home demonstration 
work in the South the county agent holds this important place. 
A state agent with headquarters at the State College ot Agri- 



CANNING CLUB ORGANIZATION 295 

• 

culture directs the work, and frequently technical help is given 
by specialists who come from the same institution. The state 
agent is, in an important way, the connecting link between the 
county agent and the force of extension workers whose head- 
quarters are at the state colleges and in the United States De- 
partment of Agriculture. 

The county agent becomes the personal medium through which 
information is furnished and by whom skilful demonstrations 
are directed. The efficient county agent must be a leader and an 
organizer. She must possess fine sympathy and good judgment. 
Her knowledge of people and conditions in her county must be 
wide and accurate. To all this there must be added good training 
in home economics and a constantly increasing knowledge of the 
lighter branches of agriculture, such as horticulture, dairying, 
and poultry raising. 

Demonstration work for women has made most rapid progress 
where preceded by at least a year of work among girls. Definite 
results are more quickly obtained among young people who have 
high enthusiasm and who, fortunately, lack experiences which 
suggest failure and who are without a sense of caution which 
previous failures suggest to the mature mind when new enter- 
prises or new methods are proposed. Then, too, the mother's 
gratitude for training given to her daughter paves the way for 
active acceptance on her part of instruction and help. 

Demonstrations Among Women. — Improvement in manage- 
ment of rural homes has not kept pace with that of the farm itself, 
nor can it be compared to the management of the city home from 
which has been taken every creative industry. For these reasons, 
one line of demonstration which has been eagerly undertaken 
by hundreds of women is the making and use of labor-saving 
devices and securing more labor-saving equipment from the out- 
side. The economic needs of women on farms demand greater 
skill in the constructive activities which are, fortunately, theirs 
to manage and from which the opportunity for financial income 
and the satisfaction of creative work of high order rightfully 
come. Therefore, demonstrations in poultry raising, home dairy- 
ing, etc., are among the first to be undertaken. 



296 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESKRVINQ 

A form of organization which has been found very successful 
is that for the cooperative marketing of products which results 
from certain demonstrations. Of these, some of the most success- 
ful have been organized for the purpose of disposing of poultry 
products. In one county nine egg circles sold 4370 dozen e^s 
in a few months. The products were so carefuUy graded that bet- 
'ter prices were secured for them than had been received by indi- 
viduals before carrying on the work cooperatively. 

Demonstrations involving the preparation of food for the 
table, and sanitary measures, are also popular. While the reports 
do not show the extent of the work, it is interesting, however, to 
note that during the year 1916 the county women agents enrolled 
and instructed :17,255 girls in canning clubs, 8911 girls in poultry 
clubs, 21,083 women as home demonstrators, and 2211 women in 
poultry clubs. The number of clubs organized for women during 
this year was 963; a total of 27,260 meetings was held, with an 
attendance of 476,366, The number of girls reporting results 
from canning work was 21,605. Of this number, 7058 made dem- 
onstrations in cooking club products and 11,384 made bread 
demonstrations. There were reported 3I>0 scholarships won as 
prizes by the club girls. The total number of containers of fruit 
and vegetables packed by the women and girls under demonstra- 
tion methods was 3,318^481, with a total value of $669,839.56. 
The total number of winter garden demonstrations by the girls 
and women was 7649. A total number of 37 egg circles was or- 
ganized by the women and girls, and the total value of poultry 
products was $53,952.76. 

The following improvements or devices were made or installed 
under the leadership of the women agents : 3058 homemade fire- 
less cookers have come into common use, accompanied in many 
instances by the purchase of kerosene stoves. There have been 
reported over 2000 demonstrations made in the use of a homemade 
iceless refrigerator by which the problems of the sanitary han- 
dling of milk and improvement in butter making are largely 
solved. A good beginning has been made in installing 264 home 
water systems, 57 inexpensive homemade shower-baths, and a 
number of improved sewage disposals. 



CANNING CLUB OKGANIZATJON 297 

In a number of counties demonstrations along sanitary lines 
were begun with campaigns against flies which involved the mak- 
ing of 4505 fly-traps in a short time, followed by other active 
measures against this pest. One thousand tw^o hundred and 
seventy houses have been screened as a result of these '*fly cam- 
paigns. * * 

The making of a few practical devices has been a great stim- 
ulus to a large number of people who have contributed clever 
ideas and useful models for many kinds of work. County agents 
rapidly receive demands for advice in arranging kitchens and 
adding built-in conveniences. To meet these demands, extension 
specialists in farm mechanics are devoting considerable time to 
assisting the county agents with specifications and plans. 

^lany labor-saving devices have been made or installed in more 
conveniently arranged kitchens. The following were also made 
in 1916 under the supervision of the women county agents : 

Kitchen cabinets 180 

Floor mops 119 

Number of wheel travs 225 

Number of ironinp: boards 243 

Some valuable work has been done in home butter making for 
the market. In addition to the iceless refrigerators, the following 
improved home dairy equipment has been made or purchased 
under the guidance of county agents: 

Butter paddles 035 

Butter moulds ()24 

Thermometers 241 

Shotgun cans (for handlin<]f milk) 214 

Barrel churns 180 

Number of hand butter- workers 79 

Number of pounds of fmtter made under demonstra- 
tion methods 70.513 

In any demonstrations undertaken, whether in the making and 
use of labor-saving devices, in better utilization of farm products 
for the table, management of sanitary or hygienic problems, etc., 
it must be recognized that in addition to technical information 
brought from the outside there exist in any community many ex- 
cellent practices and much valuable information which are not in 



898 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

commoQ use. To find such practices and arouse individuals to a 
sense of their obligation in extending them to their leaa fortunate 
neighbors is often a valuable part of the work of the county agent. 
As soon as this is undertaken, or whenever a few individual women 
successfully carry out definite demonstrations in their homes, ac- 
tive demand arises for community organization which shall bring 
together those having a common interest in some line of work and 
in addition give opportunity for social life and recreation. Or- 
ganizations thus developed assume a permanent place in their 
communities. 

With the initial work that has been accomplished, the fine 
support and cooperation given by many existing organizations 
and institutions, with Federal, state, and county appropriations 
rapidly being made, and a demand for the organization of counties 
far exceeding each year's possibilities, it is safe to assume that this 
phase of extension work is permanently established. It has met 
the need of the most progressive, as well as the least developed, 
homes and communities. 

The county agent now has an avenue of approach into every 
activity of the home. With increased opportunity for training, 
which institutions are giving by adapting their courses for her 
need, and with the opportunity for permanent service in her 
county, the work of the county woman agent will continue to be 
a most potent influence for progressive and happy country 
homes. 

The activities described are typical of the home demonstra- 
tion work now being conducted in the 15 Southern States, and 
are fairly comparable wilh tliat more recently started in the 33 
Northern and Western States. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

1. Martin, O. B., and Cres«eli., Mary E., SUt^a Relations Service, U. R. 

Department of ARriculture, Circular No. A-82, "Canning Club and 
liomo Demonstration Work." 

2. Martin, O. B., and Hiix, I. W., States Relations Service, O. S. Depart- 

ment of Agriculture, Circular No. A-74, " Organ JMtion of Boys* 
Agricultural Club Work in the Southern States." 



CANNING CLUB ORGANIZATION 299 



3. Benson, O. H"., States Relations Service, U. S. Department of Agriculture, 

Circular No. NR-31, " Suggestions for Organization of Mother- 
Daughter Clubs," and Circular No. NR-21, ** Farm and Handicraft 
Clubs." 

4. Ward, VV. F., Bureau of Animal Industry, U. S. Department of Agricul- 

ture, Farmers* Bulletin No. 506, " Organization of Boys' Pig Clubs." 

5. Lamon, Harry L., Bureau of Animal Industry', U. S. Department of Agri- 

culture, Farmers' Bulletin No. 562, " Organization of Boys' and 
Girls' Poultry Clubs." 

6. Senate Document No. 537, Government Printing Office, 1914, "Life of 

Dr. Seeman A. Knapp." 63rd Congress, 2nd session. Senate Docu- 
ment 537. 

7. Ix)RD, Isabel Ely, ** Costume in the Cookery Laboratory," Journal of 

Home Economics^ vol. 8, No. 2, Feb., 1916, American Home Eco- 
nomics Association, Baltimore, Md. 25 cents per copy, $2 per year. 

8. Creswell, M4RY E., and Powell, Ola, States Relations Service, U. S. De- 

partment of Agriculture, Circular No. 781, "Canning Club Cap and 
Apron." 

9. Knapp, Bradford, and Creswell, Mary E., " The Effect of Home Demon- 

stration Work on the Community and the County in the South," 
U. S. Department of Agriculture Year Book. $1.00. Separate, 
No. 710, 1916. 

10. Scott, Rhea C, " Home Labor-Saving Devices," J. B. Lippincott 

Company, Philadelphia, Pa. $1.00. 



CHAPTER XIX 

THE BUSINESS SIDE OF CANNING 

As Outlined by the North Carolina State Agent in Home 

Demonstration Work 

That there is an excellent market for home-canned products 
of standard grade has been amply proved by the Girls' Canniog 
Clubs of the South. Just as soon as it was established in the, 
minds of the public that their products were to be depended 
upon for an extra number of whole fruit of uniform color and 
a weight running up to the maximum in a can, there was no 
trouble in getting these cans on the pantry shelves of the house- 
wife, and, later, in increasing numbers on the siielvea of the 
grocer. 

Five years ago, when the canning clubs first began to can in 
tin for the market, they started with girls eager to earn money 
for themselves but absolutely untrained in the art of putting 
vegetables and fruits into cans and sterilizing them sufficiently 
well to insure their keeping qualities. Fortunately, these girla 
were young and impressionable, and they went in whole-heart- 
edly to carry out instructions in the new methods of canning 
which the state supervisors were bringing to them. 

Marketing. — In North Carolina it was back in 1!)12 that the 
problem of getting the products before the consumer began, 
although the girls had only 33,000 cans and these all filled with 
tomatoes. This was our first year in the organization, and both 
supervisors and girls were ine.xperienced in the commercial 
world. I can remember ray consternation when the 33,000 cans 
were dumped upon me to sell, and every little club girl was 
asking that they be sold immediately, as she needed her money. 

Here we were with a large number of cans to be disposed of 
and with no reputation in the business world — worse than none, 
in fact, for we had to shoulder the reputation made by the usual 
carelessly packed product which the farmwife brought to the 
grocer! Thinking it would be a good plan to sell in bulk, I sent 
samples of our tomatoes to a large grocery house in New York. 



THE BUSINESS SIDE OF CANNING 301 

The products were examined and pronounced excellent, but in 
one of the cans there was found a very light-colored tomato, 
and, quite properly, the firm refused to take any product that 
could not be relied upon as uniform throughout. 

Standardizing. — This criticism at the very outset of our 
marketing career probably did us more good than anything that 
could have happened. I felt that there might te a light-colored 
tomato secreted in every one of those 33,000 cans, and, calling 
into headquarters the fourteen supervising county agents, we 
had a heart-to-heart conference regarding a standard pack, and 
agreed that we must not seek an outside market until we had 
proved at home that w^e could put up an article that could be 
relied upon. These women went back to their territories to dis- 
pose of w^hat the club girls had produced among their own com- 
munity housewives. If any can was found not to be what it 
should be commercially it w^as replaced by the club member or 
money was refunded. Strict rules and regulations regarding 
standards wore enforced, and if a girl infringed the rules, ig- 
norautly or carelessly, she was not allowed to use the label. 

The Girls' Own Responsibility. — In a surprisingly short 
time these little business w'omen learned the necessity of uniform 
packs, and the agents set to work inaugurating market cam- 
paigns and inspiring the girls to assume the responsibility of 
the cisposal of their own products. This they did by loading 
wagons with cans and bringing them into the towns and villages, 
selling in this manner every can they had filled. In many county 
papers advertisements were run, saying that beans, peaches, 
tomatoes, beriies, and so on, would be brought into town on Satur- 
day by the canning club girls and orders might be left with the 
county agent, whose address was given. 

Sawmills ])ecame a great source of revenue, many girls re- 
porting that they had sold out to the ''hands'* before they could 
put the labels on the cans. The first dealings we had with 
merchants were sales made to the small country grocer here and 
there who found his supply low at times and thought he might 
try a few cans of this ''homemade stuff." As our output began 
to grow, in the larger towns where the housewives had eaten of 



303 SICCESSFL"L CASXISG AXD PRESERVIXG 

CO-OPERATIVE EXTENSION WORK 

m AQBrCIIlTIJBE AMI HOKE ECONOMICS El' <iOETE CAEOLCIA 
NORTH CAROLINA A. & M. COLLEGE 



Town of. 

D>M 

N>m« of Henhant 

Deliterto 

Street No 

NORTH CAROLINA GiRLS' CANNING CLUB 



, . Do;. Cans Tomatoes ':• . . 
" String Beans '* . . 
.. " ■• BUckbemes <s-.. 
., " '• Peich« •*■ , 

. . " Soti!> M'xtjr*'*,. 



. . Pw Doz. 



THE BUSINESS SIDE OF CANNING 303 

OUT products and found them good, we decided to make house- 
to-house canvasses to secure orders through grocers. 

Sales Demonstration.— Certain club members with initiative 
were given order books, with which they secured quite enough 
orders from the housewives to make the 4-H brand products 
well worth while to the grocer. Beautiful exhibits in glass were 
put in his window w4th ** What you see in the glass you will find 
in the tin "; and, if he desired it, the county supervisor, with 
one or two of her girls, would go into the store and demonstrate 
the different w ays in which 4-H Brand ^ products might be used. 
These little business women in their white caps and aprons 
served string-bean salad, tomato bisque, tomato jelly, or demon- 
strated what might be done with berries, peaches, corn, or kraut. 

Convincing the Retailer. — In one county the grocers were 
quite hard to convince that anything made at home could pos- 
sibly be as good as what was shipped from the factories, and 
the county supervisor was forced to call in the Chamber of Com- 
merce to assist her in convincing them. It was decided that a 
committee of grocerymen should be asked to come to the Cham- 
ber and pass judgment on the standard brands of tomatoes sold 
in the town and on the Girls' Canning Club product. Two dis- 
interested persons selected cans — four different brands — and from 
a pile of several hundred 4-II Brand cans they selected two. The 
contents of these cans were poured into six glass bowls, each bowl 
being numbered. When they were set before the grocers for 
judgment the bowls receiving the best grade held Canning Club 
products, the others grading third, fourth, fifth, and sixth. This 
was enough to arouse interest in the grocers and was, with a 
house-to-house canvass for orders, sufficient to bring us a trade 
that carried everj' one of our county cans to the retail merchant. 

Selling Direct. — One of the best and most satisfactory selling 
arrangements is to be made with institutions, colleges, and hotels, 
and our advanced girls are working up quite a trade in No. 10 
or gallon cans. If these institutions can rely upon you for a 
steady and uniform output they are glad to be in touch with a 

"The 4-H in the brand is a Canning Club slogan, signifying the de- 
velopment of the head, heart, hand, and health. 



304 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PBESEEVING 



producer who can deliver products they know to be well flavored, 
clean, and high in the percentage of pulp to the can. 

Bettie Van Tapscott and her mother, of Alamance County, 
did some excellent work in this line. Bettie says: "We filled 
last year an order of beans and pears for Swain Hall, at the 
University of North Carolioa, and when that was delivered I 
sent Sir. Tischler, the man who buys, a sample of niy tomatoes. 




He immediately ordered 100 dozen. I had only 1003 cans, so 
I divided the order with a neighbor club member, Mr. Tischler 
told mc if what I sent him proved satisfactory he would give me 
another order for this year. I guess it did, for he gave me an 
order for just as many as I would accept. I filled it and sent it 
to him yesterday, and he wants another fifty dozen already. You 
see, it is no trouble to find a market if you go at it right. I 
correctly mark, label, and crate all products I send off." 

Club members undertake cooperative work more readily than 
will their parents. One enterprising girl informed her county 



THE BUSINESS SIDE OF CANNING 305 

agent that she had already booked orders for canned products 
to the value of $168. When asked if she could fill them all, she 
said, **0h, no; I expect to have a good many more orders than 
this when all my letters are answered, but there are eight of us 
in our club and we will do it together/' (Fig. 139.) 

Two sisters of Mecklenburg County, Margaret and May Belle 
Brown, who have been club members since the work first started 
in the fall of 1912, have sent into state headquarters reports 
of each year's work. They have kept a strict account of the 
yield and of the expense of planting, cultivating, and market- 
ing, and in five years' time they have recorded a total profit of 
$889.37. This does well indeed when the first year they cleai'ed 
only $45, and they suffered from the terrible floods of July, 1916, 
that laid waste so many fields and gardens of the South. 

Profits Made by Five Girls in 191 6. — Here are five girls 
whose 1916 marketing records are good : 

Profit 
MiH8 Elsie Yarborouf^h, Wake County $155.86 

Miss Bettie Van Tapscott, Alamance County 137.20 

Miss Ella Male Kelly, Richmond County 110.58 

Miss Emma Reid, Mecklenburjr County 109.71 

Miss Hessie Steele, Richmond County 101.45 

One Family Record. — The family record of Mr. and Mrs. 
Watts and their two daughters, Mary and Clyde, of Wake 
County, is interesting. They canned in the summer of 1916 : 

2000 cans tomatoes $200.00 

3000 cans sweet potatoes 300.00 

500 cans string beans 75.00 

200 cans corn 30.00 

300 cans butterbeans 00.00 

300 glasses apple jelly 45.00 

S quarts fig pickle 3.20 

12 quarts fig preserves 9.60 

8 quarts scuppernong preserves 0.00 

8 quarts tomato pickle 4.00 

200 glasses blackberry jam 40.00 

C536 total containers. Estimated value. $772.80 

Estimated cost, 193.20 



20 



Profit, $579.60 



30C SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

A Summary Showing Increase of Work Done by Yean 
Since 1913. — This is a summary of Canning Club work in North 
Carolina for a period of five years, 1912-1916 : 



V-, 


Number 


Numbor 

■iri> 
reportinc 


Number 


Vslueof 

ptoducU 


Totd 
eon 


^. 


1912 


14 

14 
32 
37 
44 


229 

235 

814 

2,386 

3,453 


33,019 
70,000 
259,019 
633,447 
680,561 


$3,301 

7,000 

35,361 

104,241 

117,816 


$825 
1,750 
9,425 
28,985 
29,432 


»2,476 




25,935 
75,266 




1916. 












1,676,036 


$267,719 




$197,300 











STANDARDS 

That a can may be accepted by the trade and that a home 
canner may stand on an equal footing with the commercial 
eanner, standards of escellenee must be the same. First, it 
would be well to select a standard variety of fruit or vegetable 
to can. White peaches in one can and yellow in another, under 
tlie same brand, will not be tolerated by the trade unless marked 
white peach or yellow peach. This will apply to the shrivel pea 
and tlie marrowfat — each good of its kind, but each needing a 
definite distinguishing name, even if they both appear under the 
same brand. 

The brand may be considered the family name which the 
packer adopts for his products, and each variety he puts out will 
have a given name which will distinguish it from the rest of the 
family. If a eanner decides to put string beans upon the market 
he should select a variety which has practically no strings and 
which is round and meaty and green in color. These qualities 
are demanded by the trade and can be had in the "Green Pod 



THE BUSINESS SIDE OF CANNING 307 

Stringless Bean." This bean, even when jjrown to medium size, 
is still juiey, tender, and stringless, and has proved a much better 
canner than the old Valentine. 

Grading. — Beans are graded as to size, the first grading being 
given to the very small bean. This grade is called in commercial 
parlance ** Rat-tail.'* The next grade is medium, and the third 
the broken bean. Each of these is excellent in its way, as even the 
broken bean is gathered while it is tender and before well-formed 
beans are to be found in the pod. 

Tomatoes should be red-ripe, and to grade as extra standard 
the can should be packed full of either whole tomatoes or very 
large pieces. Sometimes the whole fruit is too large to put in the 
can opening and must be cut. One green or light-colored tomato 
will ruin your grade. 

Peaches should be graded according to the number of halves 
that can be packrd in a can, and the contents of a can should be 
absolutely uniform in size and color. Some of the California 
peaches are so large that only eight halves can be packed in a No. 
3 can. These, of course, would have an extra fine grading. We 
cannot hope in the East to equal the size of the California fruit, 
but our flavor seems to catch the trade, and many of the Eastern 
peaches grade extremely well on that account. 

Berries will be graded as to size, only ripe fruit being used. 

Soup mixture, chow-chow, and ketchup must each be of a uni- 
form consistency, as must jams and preserves. 

The cans, jars, and bottles should be selected carefully and 
the inimber of ounces that they contain carefully noted on the 
label. Directions as to weights of cans and quantity of contents 
will be found elsewhere in this book. 

The Label. — The label for a can should be carefully chosen 
and must not be changed except under unusual circumstances. 
This label becomes the sign-patent of what is in the can, and any 
reputation which the contents of the can may make is recorded 
under its particular label in the purchaser's mind. To change 
often would bo disastrous, as the public has begun to look for what 
it desires under a particular cover, and is a little suspicious that 
it is not getting quite as good if a change is made (Pig. 140). 



SUCCESSFUL CASKING AXD I'llESEKVlNG 







FiQ. 141.— tituEdord pu'ka in tin. 



THE BUSINESS SIDE OF CANNING 309 

I was much amused at an old grocer who had been buying 
from the Canning Clubs when all of the labels bore pictures of the 
fruit or vegetable in the can. The new labels were very neat and 
attractive, but were without pictures, simply the name of the 
vegetable being printed on them. **I can't buy these," he said. 
**I would have to take out my spectacles and read the name on 
those cans every time I wanted peaches or tomatoes for a cus- 
tomer for the whole lot of them." 

Consult your grocers and see which style they prefer. Make 
your selection and stick to it. Every label should bear the name 
and address of the canner, and should have printed thereon the 
weight of contents of can (Fig. 141). 

When striving for an extra trade a well-advertised cleanliness 
of methods does much to bring a high-class patronage. To pub- 
lish that all canning is done under a wire-screened shed or in a 
fiy-proof room, that the workers wear immaculate uniforms and 
close-fitting caps, and that conditions around the canner are sani- 
tary in every respect is a great incentive to the hospital or hotel 
buyer. 

MARKETING POLICY 

During the fall and winter of 1916, for example, prices of 
canned products ran riot, and all preconceived ideas of what was 
a good marketing policy were scattered to the winds. A county 
agent who had heretofore found it wise and expedient to visit the 
town merchant in the spring and secure his order at a certain 
price for future delivery discovered that she liad brought trouble 
upon herself unless she had designated some special girls to fill 
those orders at tlie time the contract was made. 

I*rices commenced to climb even in August, and by October 
tomatoes were selling at $1.10-$!. 25 a dozen to the retailer* 
When the agent thought it time to fill the contracts taken at $1 
she found many of her girls had sold at $1.25 and many 
more were holding for the advanced price that was certain to 
come. She had not put the matter before the girls in the spring to 
find if they would take the contract, believing that any of them 
would be glad of the chance to sell tomatoes in quantity at one 
dollar, as had been the case in previous years. It was therefore 



310 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 

a distiDCt shock to find so many already sold out or arranging for 
higher prices. It was at the last the club spirit that saved her, 
for the giria clubbed together and agreed each one to furnish a 
part of the orders taken, tliat the loss might not fall lieavily on 
any one of them and that the business honor of the clubs might 
be saved. 

Business plans which have been evolved from that experience 
seem to be sound. The county supervisor will always more or less 
act as a go-between from club girl to merchant, because the mer- 
chant finds it very convenient to telephone her an order or to see 
her about the coming output when she is in town ; but after the 
agent finds wliat the grocer needs she is wisely selecting certain 
girls to go to him, make their own bargains, and sign any con- 
tracts which may be eventually agreed upon. This puts the re- 
sponsibility on Iht- proper person — the producer — and leaves the 
county agent free to advise, to keep her ejes open for possible 
chances, to see that standards are maintained, and U> look to the 
carrying out of the state's marketing policy; namely, not selling 
to the merchant and also to the consumer in any town. By this 
policy we avoid selling to the grocer and also to his customers, 
and so keep the good-will of bolh (Fig. 142), 

It was a little ditlicnit to instill this into the girl at first. She 
could not si'e ivliy if was not proper to sell all the prodncts pos- 
sible fo the housewives at certain advanced price.s, and what she 
could not sell in this way later to sell to the merchant at s less 
price. 

(Jood business principles, however, are part of her training, 
and she sees the wisdom of the position when she and her fellow- 
club meiubers are producing in such quantities that it is upon the 
grocer that they must i"ely to fake the whole output. He pays 
promptly a satisfactory price — even if less than the consumer — 
and the diflferenee is almost made up when the delivery of all 
products can be made at one time instead of in small lots. 

Prices, — Prices are governed by supply and demand. In 
lOl!) from 8-5 cents to $1 per dozen was a good price to receive 
for No. 3 tomatoes. In 191(>-1!)17 tomatoes in No. 3 cans sold 
as high as $1.80 to $2 per dozen fo the retailer. Nineteen hundred 



THE BUSINESS SIDE OF CANNING 311 

and fifteen was a good garden year, and a large number of cans 
were put upon the market. Nineteen hundred and sixteen was 
one of the worst trucking years the country had ever known. Not 
only did the long drought of April and May damage the early 
plants until we could expect only half a crop, but in the South 
the July floods almost wiped out what remained. The supply 
of canned products was therefore very short all over the coun- 
try, and the reserve supi)ly of the jobbers and grocers had been 
called upon to such an extent that even a bumper crop in 1917 
would scarcely meet the demand of ordinary circumstances. As 
it was, war conditions made an extra supply necessary and put 
upon the home the responsibility of filling every available glass 
jar for home use and eveiy tin can for market. 

While empty tin cans were high, the price of full cans was 
correspondingly high, and there appeared to be no chance of a 
canner losing out in the market if his pack were of standard 
grade. 

In North Carolina the club girls have found it at times not 
unprofitable to sell to the jobber. Indeed, there are circumstances 
under which this is advisable. If a supervisor finds herself with 
a large output in a county, the market not very brisk, and the 
young canners quite impatient to sell, as is sometimes the case 
in a new county, a jobber who will agree to take the whole output 
or as much of it as the girls will agree to let go may prove himself 
a friend in need. The price is not much below the retail man's, 
and the short length of time it takes for the girls to reimburse 
themselves gives them courage and determination to keep on at 
the work anoth(»r year. In some cases drop orders for these job- 
bers may be accepted ; that is, a jobber will buy several thousand 
cans from a county, asking that one thousand be sent to John 
Doe, of Wilmington, and so many more to a firm in Charlotte, 
and so on. This saves the jobber the extra expense of receiving 
the whole shipment himself and reshipping to his customers. 

Principal Money Crops. — The club girls' principal money 
crops are tomatoes, string beans, and soup mixture, though the 
demand for sweet potatoes, corn, kraut, peas, berries, peaches, 
preserves, jams, and pickles is constantly growing. 



312 SirCESSFL'L CAXNIXU AXD rKESERVl.NG 

Five years ago the girl fouod it difficult to get her products 
upon the market without much hard work. To-day, because of 
her fidelity tu standard-s and her willingness to make good any 
losses to the merchant, he is seeking her out and in many counties 
is taking every 4-!{ Brand can that is put upon the market. In 
1916 the canning clubs of the South could have sold many times 
their output, and they are now looking forward to a more than 
doubled output, feeling that they have an assured market for all 
they can produce, and a great duly to perform in producing 
everj-thing that their enei^- and determination can wrest from 
the ground. 

Shipping. — The best marketing policy is to bnild up a trade in 
your own community. Certainly, unless your canning output 
is large enough to number in carload lots, it would not be 
profitable to ship to any great distance. Freieht rates in small 
Iota are high and rather unsatisfactor%- as to length of time in 
delivery. In North Carolina we frequently ship from one county 
to another when a territory lias produced a large number of cans 
and feels that its market might not be sufficiently well estab- 
lished to dispose of them readily. But we are careful to ship to 
the iK-arest county having a market for more than it produced, 
and wc make certain that the shipment goes over one line only. 

Fur the most part, cans should be shipped in cases containing 
two dozen. Look at the regulation tomato box in any grocery 
store and observe the size. These boxes should l>e marked on 
iKtth ends by a label. Just the same label which you paste on 
your can will answer and should be placed in the middle of the 
end spaces. This will enable the grocer to determine easily the 
contents of the case. 

Last year I found sonic grocers and many institutions willing 
to have their products in tin shipped to them in barrels. The 
fn'ipht rate is cheaper on barrels, and if excelsior is used in the 
l)aeking to prevent scratching of labels, six dozen No. 3 cans can 
be sent very well in this n'cepfaclc. 

Shipment of products in glass can be made in barrels well 
packed with excelsior and amve with practically no breakage. 
Pastelmard cartons are good for small packages of glass. Qlass is 



THK BUSINESS SIDK OK CANNING 313 

best sent by express, though short- distance freiglit is quite safe for 
glass in barrels. The parcels post may be used to advantage for 
small packages, but they must be put in either a heavy pasteboard 
carton or a light wooden one and be well packed. 

The Invoice.— When an order is shipper], an invoice or list 
of what is included in the shipment should be sent to the pur- 
chaser and a copy filed for the shipper's information. Never 




neglect this, as much confusion results otherwise. A copy of the 
bill of laditiK should also he sent, but an express receipt should 
lie kept by the shii)i)er. 

The Payment. — Some merchants ask that shipment be made 
sight draft with bill of lading attached. This means that the pur- 
chaser pays before taking the shipment from the station. Any 
banker will explain this shipment. Other merchants prefer the 
bill sent and a certain length of time in which to pay it. Any 



314 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



Til 
a' 



THE BUSINESS SIDE OF CANNING 315 

grocer whose rating is good should be able to arrange satisfactory 
means of payment with the shipper. In five years of doing 
business with the merchant the North Carolina Canning Clubs 
have never to my knowledge lost a penny through nonpayment of 
bills. 

In trading with the housewife cash payments are preferable, 
as too much time is consumed in a second visit to collect for small 
orders. 

Records and Accounts. — Every canner should keep an ac- 
count of just what she spends in her yearly venture. A com- 
plicated system of bookkeeping is not necessary; but to deter- 
mine just what is cleared during the season and to be able to 
know whether the business pays, a strict record of what is paid 
out in money and time must be kept. The following things should 
be listed: cost of ploughing, fertilizer, seed, plants, time con- 
sumed in planting, cultivating, harvesting and canning, and the 
cost of sugar, cans, jars, labels, crates, etc. The cost of mar- 
keting must also be included. 

A record should also be kept of what is sold, the prices re- 
ceived, and when delivered. 

QUESTIONS 

1. Describe briefly your idea of business integrity. 

2. VVhatj plan of marketing do you believe would be the most feasible in 

your t'onmiunity? Why? 

3. A fundamental demand of a commercial product is uniformity: give a 

brief explanation of each way in which packs should be uniform. 

4. In what ways may the label influence ease of marketing? 

5. Explain how prices are governed. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

1. McKiMMON, Jane iS., " Marketing the Canning Club Products," article 

in Country (ientleman, issue June 3, 1916. Published by the Curtis 
Publishing Company, Philadelphia, Pa. 

2. United States Department of Agriculture, States Relations Service, 

"Canning Club Record Book,** B-511, i. Published by the Office of 
Extension Work in the South, States Relations Service, Department 
of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 



CHAPTER XX 
TEACHING CANNING AND RELATED ACTIVITIES 

The material contained in this volume may be used as a text- 
book in the hands of Students in a course of canning and pre- 
serving given for high school, normal school, and college students. 
Here and there such courses are being given, and in many other 
institutions the subjects of canning and preserving are given at- 
tention. This book will also prove useful as a reference volume in 
connection with extension and other special courses, and in sum- 
mer school courses for study as to utilizing fruits and vegetables 
cultivated on the city vacant lots, high school training farms, and 
school gardens. 

Many schools and colleges are adding this line of practical 
work, in raising and canning fruits and vegetables, to their Homo 
Economics courses. It had been found that the best results can 
be obtained where the productive side of the question is considered 
first, and where raising the products precedes their utilization in 
canning. 

The subject of preservation of foods has been only barely 
touched upon in most of the Home Economics courses. Little 
time or study in schools has been given this very important phase 
of food conservation until very recently. Now the colleges of 
agriculture and colleges for women in nearly all of the states have 
included in their regular courses work in canning, or they give 
during the year a short course, which includes such instruction. 
Some of these courses are planned for Farmers' AVeek, Farmers' 
Institutes, and other special short courses. Bometlmes courses 
are given in the state institutions for women and girls who have 
won the highest and best records in their state in home demonstra- 
tion work and canning clnbs. While the principles presented 
should cover representative phases of the subject, the practical 
316 



TEACHING CANNING AND RELATED ACTIVITIES 



317 



work done will naturally be determined by seasons. Brief or a 
more exhaustive study should be given, according to the age and 
maturity of the students. It is understood that more of the bac- 
teriology of canning will be given to advanced students. In 
planning courses the teacher should plan her work with refer- 
ence to 

1. Aim. 

2. Subject-matter. 

3. Methods. 

4. Equipment. 

5. Library. 



A SUMMKR SUORT COURSE 



For a two-week summer short course the plan outlined below 
is suggested for the first year's work in canning. Necessary in- 
formation to carr>' on such a course may be gotten from the text. 



Lecture — Principles of canning. 

Canning tomatoes or berries in glass. 

Arranging necessary equipment for canning in tin. Canning 
tomatoes in tin. 

Utilizing tomato by-products: (a) Tomato pur6e; (6) to- 
mato paste; (c) green tomato pickle; (d) tomato ketchup. 

Plain fruit canning in tin — either peaclies, figs, or pears — 
giving recipe for putting up a by-product for each fruit 
used. 

Fancy packing of fruits in glass for exhibit purposes. 

Canning beans and peas in tin. 

Fancy packing of beans and carrots in glass for exhibit pur- 
poses. 

Canning corn in tin ; canning baby beets in glass. 

Canning sweet Spanish pimientos whole, in glass and in tin. 

Canning soup mixture in glass ; packing of vegetable mace- 
doine in glass. 

Arranging an attractive exhibit of products canned. Instruc- 
tions on judging and scoring. Examination. 



Lesson 


I. 


Lesson 


IL 


Lesson 


III. 


Lesson 


IV. 


Lesson 


V. 


Lesson 


VI. 


Lesson 


VII. 


Lesson VIII. 


Lesson 


IX. 


Lesson 


X. 


lesson 


XI. 



Tx?8son XII. 



The second year's course should include preserving, jelly mak- 
ing, and crystallizing of fruits, as given in the following outline. 
A longer course in a single season for more mature students might 
include both. 



318 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESKRVING 

Lesson 1. Lecture — General principles of preserving. 

Lesson II. Preserved watermelon rind or, citron melon, also bottling 
fresh fruit juices. 

Lesson III. Finishing watermelon rind preserve. Starting i>err]' shrub. 

Lesson IV. Preserved peaches, flgs, or pears, with recipes tor by-products, 
peach marmalade, Tig marmalade, gingered pear, and jams. 

Lesson V. Making the by-products of the fruit elioscn for preserving. 

Lesson VI. Making marmalades and conserves. Grape-fruit, kumquat, 
or oran^'e marmalade ; fig, plum, or rhubarb conserve. 

Lesson VII, Fruit paatus or butters; apple, apricot, fig, or peach. Drying 
fruits and vegetables. 

Ijesaon Vllt. Jelly making. Begin crystallizing fruits. 

Liesson IX, Pickling. Urining vegetables. 

I.«SBon X. Curing of meats. (Lecture.) 

Lesson XI. Making sweet pickles. 

lesson XII. Making relish, chutney, mangoes. 

Lesson XMI. Finish crystallising fruits and packing fruit pastes. 

Lesson XIV. Arrange an attrai'tive enhibit of proiluots jireaiTved. In- 
structions on judging and nooring. 

Lesson XV. tSummary of work done. 

It is impossible to suggest a course of study which might be 
adopted without changes, since the value of such a course depends 
greatly upon the choice of suitable products, and those which the 
people being taught most desire to know about. The locality and 
the season o£ the year will cause the selection of material to vary 
considerably in different sections. However, considerable uni- 
formity can exist in the instructions planned for an organization 
in a section or an entire state, depending upon a range of latitude 
and variation in climate. 

COUNTY SHORT COURSES 

A state- wide plan for all county short courses for canning club 
girls has helped work out a fine scheme of standardizing the 
special club products made during the four years' program of 
work throughout the state. The following is part of the plana 
which have been outlined for use in short courses: 

First-year Canning Club Members. — First hour each day 
devoted to lecture on one of the general topics; Sanitation, Per- 
sonal Hygiene, Principles Underlying the Work. 



TEACHING CANNING AND RELATED ACTIVITIES 3 19 

Two- to three-hour period daily for practical work in canning 
tomato products : salad tomatoes in thick sauce packed in glass, 
plain canned tomatoes in tin, tomato pur6e, tomato paste in tin 
and glass, green tomato pickle in glass, tomato ketchup in bottles, 
and soup mixture in glass. 

A part of the time during these short courses is devoted to 
other phases of the club work which are emphasized at different 
seasons of the year, such as gardening, poultry work, winter gar- 
dening, sewing, bread making, and cooking and serving of club 
products. 

Second-year Canning Club Members. — The second-year 
members spend the first hour in assembly hearing the general 
lecture. The practice period is devoted to work in canning and 
preserving the special products which they are growing on their 
one-tenth acre plots; soup mixture in tin, fancy packing of 
beans, peaches, or figs in glass, vegetable macedoine (band pack- 
ing) in glass, baby beets, okra, Dixie relish. 

Third-year Canning Club Members. — Dixie relish, canned 
pimientos, chutney, jelly, and preserves. 

Fourth-year Members. — (Canning Club, Home Demonstra- 
tion Clxib, and Ladies from Town.) 

Jellies, preserves, marmalades, jams, and conserves. Pickling 
(brining of vegetables). 

The short course outlined above is based upon the general 
plan of work which has been adopted in all the Southern States. 
It includes a program of work for four consecutive years. A 
description of this four-year program is given on page 302. In 
other sections, North and West, there are similar organizations of 
girls and women with programs which give gardening and can- 
ning work a large place. Such work provides for girls and young 
women of the farms a useful vocation, stimulating them to broader 
activities and more useful lives. From the standpoint of the indi- 



3ao 



SUCCKSSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



vidual, such work gives fine opportunity for development of self- 
reliasce, initiative, and skill in speeial lines. This skill has a 
direct economic value, because the girls possessing U are enabled 
to earn money. By the cooperative community effort called forth 
by these lines of work, rural life is made more attractive for men, 
women, and young people alike. 

An Ootumed Prooram of Wi 



I. Cajining Clubs 
First year (One-tenth 



fOne-t*nth acre tomatoes, two other 
I vegetables or one- twentieth acre 
1 veftelables, onc-twenlieth acre per- 



) One-twentieth acie new 
one-twenlieth acre perennials from 
third j'car or home garden. 



1. Fall gardeDS- 

2. Catch crops. 

3. Cover crops. 



/ Frtsh. 



(a) Standardization of all garden and orchard products! p^^fplyod 

(6) Economic preservation of all waste products on farm. 

(e) Exhibits at county and state contests held in the fall 

(d) See outlined plan of Home Demonstration Work, page 321. 

//. Poultry Clubs 

(1. General tilihty purposes. 
2. Egg production. 
3. Market 

(0) Marketing ot poultryand poultry products. 

[ Breeding. 

(c) Care of flock I Housing. 

I Treatment of diseases. 
i Grading. 

(d) Use of reports. 



(/) See outlined plan ot Home Demonstration Work, page 321. 



TEACHING CANNING AND RELATED ACTIVITIES 321 

An Outline Plan of Home Demonstration Work for Women in 

Oklahoma 

f Fireless cooker and oil stoves. 

1. Labor- and time-saving devices. . J Fly-traps and sanitary appliances. 

I Ironing boards, wheel trays, tables 
[ with rollers, running water, etc. 

2. Economic production of wholesome food from all garden and poultry club 

products. 

il. Sterile utensils. 

2. Care and use of milk. 

3. Butter making. 

4. Marketing of dairy products. 

4. Sewing: 

[ Cap. 
(a) Making of club uniform ... - Apron. 

I Towel and holder. 
(6) Selection of material for clothing. 

(c) Making of simple cotton dress. 



5. Bread making 



Begin with batters and end with yeast 

bread. 
Economic use of stale bread. 
Care of bread. 



COl'RSE OF STUDY IN FARMERS* BULLETINS FROM U. 8. DEPARTMENT OF AOBI- 
CULTUKE FOR WOMEN COUNTY AGENTS IN OKLAHOMA 

For February, March, and April 
Farmers' Bulletin Xo. 1H3 Meat on tlie Farm: Butchering, Curing, and 
Keeping. 

Poultry (State lesson sheets). 
Gardening (State lesson sheets). 
642 Tomato Growing in the South. 
(>79 House Flies. 

For May, June^ and July 

(y.U (Year Book) Clean Water and How to Get it on the Farm. 

G07 Farm Kitchen as a Workshop. 

541 Farm Butter Making. 

375 Care of Food in the Home. 

444 Remedies and Preventives against Mosquitoes. 

For Auguaty September, and October 

51 Standard Varieties of Chickens. 
044 Manufacture and Use of Unfermented Grape Juice. 
478 How to Prevent Typhoid Fever. 
270 Modern Conveniences for Farm Home. 
(J4G Selection of Household Equipment. 

132 Correlating Agriculture with Public School Subjects in the Southern 
States. Study one Text-book on Foods. 

21 



322 



SLCCKSSFUL CANXING AND I'RESERVISG 



fiAKDENING .VXD CVNSING IN CITIES 

Such organizations as Boards o£ Education and Civic Aaso- 
ciatioiis liavt; conducted gardening and canning in a number of 
cities. In the canning iiistnietious coaeoted with the vacant lot 
gardens, training farm plots, and school gardens in cities the 
fruit and vegetables should be canoed as they mature. Sometimes 
a nearby school buihiing which is usually closed during the sum- 
mer months ha.s available a well-equipped domestic science labora- 
tory which could be used to great advanta^ in this summer work. 
If such a place is not available, a shady spot near the garden 




may bo selected jiiid here outdoor equipment set up for the can- 
ning work. Only a limited number of ntensils are necessary. 

Vacant Lot Gardening. — The vacant lot gardening in Phila- 
delphia is typical <)f what some of the cities are doing and of what 
all should do (Fig. 14.")). Slany property owners in this city lend 
their land with tlie understaiidiiig that in ease they wish to sell, 
build, or use the land tlic gardeners will release it on a six weeks' 
notice, Tlie work is conducted under the auspices of the Philadel- 
phia Vacant Lot Cultivation .\s.sociatioii. Several hundred fam- 
ilies arc made happier and brought to better health every year 
because of this opportunity to get close to Mother Nature. Such 



TEACHING CANNING AND RKLATEU ACTIVITIES 323 




324 



SL'CCESSFLX CAXSISG AND PRESERVING 



a privilege enables many people to pronde wholesome food and 
recreation for their families during the summer months. Often 
a goodly supply of potatoes and other vegetables is grown and 
stored for winter use. At the same time the city is beautified by 
growing gardens on the vacant lots (Fig, 143). 

Wliat is not used in the homes or sold fresh might easily be 
canned, or dried, stored, and sold later or used during the winter 
months. 




Philadi-Iphii. Fa. 



School gardens (Fig. 144 1 should be large enough to produce 
a sujip]\' of vegetables for the home table, with a small surplus 
to sell or to can. In some country schools gardens have been culti- 
vated by the chikirt^u and the vegetables canned for use during 
the wiuter iu hot -ichool lunches. 

The training farm work in Cleveland, 1910 to 1913, may be 
cited to show what city school gardens will accomplish. There 
the children studied the canning and preserving of all vegetables 
grown iu their gardens, these canning lessons being given in the 
Domestic Science Department of the Schools. 

One of the features of the work has been the exhibit of the 



TEACHING CANNING AND RELATED ACTIVITIES 325 

garden products and canned goods (Figs. 147 and 148). All of 
the products exhibited were grown and put up by the children in 
the Willard School Farm (Fig. 149). 

After the planting season, before the vegetables mature, there 
is opportunity to bring together the necessary etiuipinent in a 




Flo. HB.—A lomuto plol 



suitable place. The building of homemade eanners and fly-traps 
may be taught as a part of the preparation for outdoor canning. 
The fundamental principles of canning should first be taught 
through the use of the material most easily canned. Some of the 
early berries and fruits are easier to can than the vegetables, 
and lend opportunity for practice before the products which are 
more difficult to can come into bearing. 

CANNING IK UIGIIER INSTITUTIONS 

Normal schools have already recognized the value of giving 



32ti SLTCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESEUVINO 




TEACHING CANNING AND RELATED ACTIVITIES 




328 SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVINQ 




TEACHING CANNING AND RELATED ACTIVITIES 339 




330 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



their students practical vrork of this nature so that later, as teach- 
ers, they may be prepared to direct these activities among chil- 
dren successfully. In many institutions students have organized 
themselves into canning clubs which they have conducted for the 
purpose of learning how to carry on these organizations among 
children. 

The following series of illustrations will given an idea of what 
was done at one of the state normal schools in Virginia (Pigs. 
150, 151, 152, 153, and 154). A one-half aero scholarship plot 




was givcii to the senior class. They were to plant, spray, culti- 
vate, slake, and prune the tomato plants. The canning club gaU 
who won the state short course scholarships from various counties 
came to this school in the summer. The plot furnished oppor- 
tunity for practical instruction in the garden. When the stu- 
dents returned to school in the fall the garden was in bearing. 

The district agent in home demonstration work, who had her 
lieadquarters in this school, gave many demonstrations to the 
senior students in the utilization of this vegetable in various 
ways. Plain canned tomatoes, whole salad tomatoes m thick 



TEACHING CANNING AND RELATED ACTIVITIES 331 

sauce, tomato pur^, tomato paste, tomato ketchup, and ^reen to- 
mato pickles were the principal products made. The students be- 




came skilled in canniug and gave demonstrations for the benefit 
of other members of the school. Some of these products were 



S33 SLTCESSFCL CASXIXG AXD PRESER\nS'G 




I'lan of builclina uHil lor <~UDiDf; Bt Stale laduatria] CoUpic. DvDtoD.TeiJ 



TEACmNG CANNING AND RELATED ACTIVITIES 



333 



used in the school dining hall and some were sold. The proceeds 
are to be turned each year into a permanent scholarship fund for 
canning club girls of the state. 

The training given in the state normal school has enabled 
teachers to give fine assistance to the county agent in organizing 
canning clubs (Fig. 155). Colleges are also giving courses in 
canning; a notable example is the State Industrial College at 
Denton, Texas, which has provided a canning laboratory build- 
ing (Pig. 156). 



SUGGESTED LIST OF SUPPLIES FOR A SMALL IJVBORATORY 

Brushes f etc.: 

1 Fan-shaped sink brush 
V2 Dozen brushes for test-tubes 



% Dozen brushes for small cyl- 
inders 
% Dozen brushes, bristle 



Choppers, Slicers, etc.: 
1 No. 3 food chopper 

1 Sterling slicer 
Cutlery, etc.: 

2 Silver-plated dessert knives 

1 Rubl)er-tipped sink shovel 
l^ Dozen spoons, tea, heavy 

plated 

2 Spatulas, steel, nickel- 

plated, 6-inch blade 

Crockery f etc. : 

1 Dozen plates, dinner, 9- 
inch, plain 



Encumel Boilers, Pans, Cups, Trays, etc.: 
1 Tray, white enamel, oval 
3 Bowls, white enamel, four- 
quart 
3 Pans, enamelled, sauce. No. 

24 
3 Pans, enamelled, stew, 

Nesco six-quart 
6 Pans, enamelled, milk, 

round, six-quart 
1 Pan, dish, tin, large size 



1 Hand bottle capping machine 
1 Hand fruit press 

1 Sure-cut can opener 
Va Dozen spoons, table, heavy 

plated ( set of ) 
y^ Dozen forks, table, heavy 

plated (set of 0) 
V'y Dozen knives, paring, 

three-inch blade 

1 Dozen dishes, side, plain 
white 
Vo Dozen crocks, glazed stone, 
1 -gal Ion, with covers 

1 Tureen, oval, enamelled, 
thirteen-quart (used for 
hot- water bath processor) 

Yz Dozen cups, enamelled 
1 Cup, tin, one-quart 

i/o Dozen pans, enamelled, 
milk, oval 

Vg Dozen bowls, enamelled, 
one-quart 

Yg Dozen bowls, enamelled, 
two-quart 



334 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PBESEBVING 



Funnels. Jar FillcrH, elc, : 

1 PatoDt funnel, pint size, cop- 
per, nk'kel lined 
(lima Containrrs and Meaturea: 

1 Groae No. 12 champagne 

shaped caUup buCtlea. 
roll top and crimp cap 
3 GlftBB measuring cupa, y, 
pint, graduated 
100 Processing clanipB 

<4 Dozen graduates, glass, 

cone sliape, eight-ounce 

'/, Dozen cups, feeding, glass 

2 Dozen glasses, jelly 
1 Dozen jars, preserve, 

Mason's standard ono- 

1 DoEen jars. Mason's 

Atlas one-qnart, «-ide 

MUcftlanoiis ■' 

21/j Yards oilclotli. wliile 

Yards denim, upliolster- 



s dark bli 
Yard. 
bleached, 30 



loth, 
nches 



vide 



'i/ic Appaialua, Kcatts, and lllappliei 

Scales, double beam, porce- 
lain plate, 10-ineli square, 
with brass scoop 

Confectioner's tlicrmom- 
etera. range 80 degrees 
to 350 degrees F. 

Chemical thermonioters, 
scale range 110 degrees C. 

Chemical thermometers, 
scale range 230 degrees F. 
% Dozen salt per cent scale. 
per cent to 100 per eent 

Sugar hydrometer. Balling 
scale degree to 70 de- 
grees, '^ degree gradation 



Dozen jars. Mason's 

Atlas one-pint, wide 

mouth 
Dozen No. 5004 lO-ounce 

vase-shape jar, with 

hermetic cap 
Dozen No. 5042 12-ouncc 

glass top, screw rim 
Dozen No. 20ii 10-ouncc 

tumbler-shape jar. with 

hermetic cap 
Dozen No. 194 4-ounei; 

jar, with hermetic cap 
rjrosH thick red or gray 
ruhber jar Tinjjs 



Yards flannel, white 
Dozen yards towelling, It- 
inch linen 
Dozen rolls paper hand 
towelling 

Sugar hydrometers, Brix 
scale range, degrees to 
30 degrees, graduated ',» 

Sugar hydrometeri, Bris 
scale, range 30 d^rees to 
60 degrees, graduated % 
degree 

2no c.c. cylinders, for float- 
ing spindles 

Small steam pressure proc- 

Small " water-seal " c»ii- 



TEACHING CANNING AND RELATED ACTIVITIES 



Sievet, Strainers, Ladies, etc.; 
1 Sanilary sink baaket 
1 No. 80 pucie sieve 

1 Oblong wire draining tray for 

processing boiler 

2 Aluminum ladle, oval Imwl for 

pouring, hook on middle of 

Wooden Ware, etc.: 

2 Flat wooden spoons 

1 ^i^la1l potato masher for 

cnnUing t,„iU 
1 Jar, nlop, papier-machi^ 



2 Perforated aluniii 



skin 



1 Large aluminum strainer 

1 Wire frying basket with bail 

for blanohing vegetables 
1 Pur^ seive 
i Colander 



V2 Dozen cane packing paddles 
y. Dozen cane ayrup paddlea 

2 Wooden patldlcB for testing 
jelly 

2 Jelly racks 



The nbove list is inteoded for experimental work; for in- 
dividual class work the list would need to be supplemented. Can- 




Fia. 197.— A North Cuoliu eibibit of fint-yeu prodnela. 



336 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



ning instruction can be given in an ordinary cooking laboratory. 
One does not need a special room, althou^, as the work de- 
velops, a room set aside as " A Canning Laboratory" will tend 
to dignify the work and simplify the task of the instructor. A 
lecture room with a raised platform where demonstrations and 
lantern slide lectures could be given for the benefit of all students 
would be most useful. A list of catalogues and samples from 
commercial firms should be secured and students should famil- 
iarize themselves with the sources of supplies (see Appendix, 
p. 346). 




TEACHING CANNING AND RELATED ACTIVITIES 



337 



Exhibits,— Numerous benefits may be derived from exhibiting 
the finished products of canning and preserving work in schools 
and clubs. A "harvest home" in the school, a community fair, a 
county or state fair attracts attention to what has been accom- 
plished and interests a greater number of people. One of the 
most important results of the exhibit is its use as a means of estab- 
lishing standards of quality. It impresses forcibly the great 
necessity for uniform products. ITniform containers for the 
products improve the appearance of the whole exhibit (Figs. 157 
and 158). 







Figure 159 shows a miniature exhibit suggested as a plan for 
a state fair booth. Each small pyramid, which is covered with 
dark green, is to represent the separate county or parish exhibit. 
The jars for each stand are usually selected from the best ones 
shown at the community or county fairs, and should represent 
the best work done in that county. The larger frame in the 
center is for special products which have been entered for indi- 
vidual awards. 

This plan of arrangement by counties simplifies judging and 
makes possible a comparison of work done by the different coun- 
ties at a glance. Standardized special products from the variotis 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND FRKSERVING 




counties are assumblctl together, and the color scliome of the whole 
display is very effective. The center frame is supposed 1() repre- 
sent a plass jar in shape. It is painted white, with a gilt band 
paiiiteil nronnd the top to represent a lacquered jar cap. The 
while wooden frame is lined inside with white cheesecloth, and 
if 11 stniiijj lifiht is placed behind this cloth in the center it will 
shine through the clear liquid in the jars and make the products 



TEACHING CANNING AND RELATED ACTIVXTIBS 



339 



show up brighter and to much better advautage. This is an espe- 
cially fine arraagement to show off effectively clear jellies, pre- 
serves, marmalades, and fruit juices. By placing products of one 
kind only on each shelf all around the frame an effective combi- 
nation of bands of color can be obtained. 

When exhibits are carefully planned and arranged it affords 
great pleasure to all who see them, and renders much easier the 
work of those who do the judging and place the blue ribbons 
(Fig. 160). 

Judging the exhibits, if well performed, serves as a means of 
establishing standards of quality that make for excellence. It 







emphasizes the importance of careful work, and of uniform pack- 
ing in standard containers and packages. 

Score Cards, — Such a card lists all the essential characteris- 
tics of a certain kind of product and assigns percentage numbers 
on a scale of a hundred; the more important items are given 
lai^er numbers, the less important items are given smaller num- 
bers, and the sum of the numbers is made 100. A product is ex- 
amined and compared by the judge with au ideal or perfect 
product; the ideal product would be scored 100; the product 
being judged will be discredited one or more points under the 
various items, and the score allowed it will be the sum of tbeae 
discredits taken from the perfect score of 100 (Pig. 161), 

The use of the score card has come to be common in judging 
such materials, and such cards help greatly to emphasize the 
I points. 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



OCHCRAL SCORE CABD FOB CANNED FBUITS A 

Appearance Color 15 

ClearncsB 10 25 

Texture 10 

Flivor 20 

Uniformity Kipeness 10 

Appropriate aiie 5 15 

Pack (arranftpriient in glass or weight in tin) 15 

Container lAtwl 5 

Neatnema 5 

Appropriate package ... 5 IS 



ToUl . 



. ,100 




Flo. 182.— This pow hu preTed to be m wonderful priie for thii 



Every one who sees such an exhibit aod hears the public 
judging will go away with an intelligent appreciation of th6 
exhibit and be stimulated with a greater desire for improvement 
through better methods of work. 

Somewhat different scores are used for judging jelly, pre- 
serves, and relishes, and the following are only suggestive scores 
which will aid the judges and exhibitors by calling attention tb 
the essential points that make for high standards: 



TEACHING CANNING AND RELATED ACTIVITIES 341 




Fid. 163. — A gmleiuBg nt emdidiic of ■ Itoicliiit pad and an aproo tor toola. 



342 ' SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRKSEKVINO 

Hcore Vard for -Icily: 

Appearance Color 10 

ClearncHS 10 

CryetalH (lack of).. 5 25 

Congisteney 40 

Flavor 20 

ConUiner I^bel 5 

Appropriate bizu .. '> 15 

Total 100 

The pronounced yet natural color of the fruit is most desir- 
able. Natural fruit flavors and colors are much more artistic 
than artificially colored and flavored fancy jellies. Clear, spar- 
kliiiff, transparent jelly with no signs of crystallization make the 
product attractive in appearance. The texture is tender and cuts 
easily. It breaks with distinct cleavage, and the angles retain 
shape. The glasses should be uniform in shape and of appro- 
priate size, practical for use in the average home. The clean 
covers should fit tightly, and a small, noat label should be properly 
placed. 

.S'™ri" Vard fur I'rcaery.'ea : 

h'ruil. , . . .Appearance (coloramiclt'aniess) 10 

Uniformity of jiiecea 10 

Pack ( arranKcraent 1 10 

Flavor 1.1 

Texture 10 

Svrup. . .l'l«irnfs« ami I'ulur 10 

Klaviir 1.'. 

ConHtHteiicy 10 

I'rojHirtiun of juiei- .") 4i) 

Total 100 

The preserved product should retain as nearlj' as possible 
original shape, color, and flavor of the fresh fruit. Too often the 
fniit flavor is destroyed by use of too much sugar. Preserved 
fruits should be plump and firm, yet tender and transparent. 
The pieces should be of uniform size and arranged in the jar 



TEACiUNCJ CANNING AND KKLATKI) ACTIVITIES 343 

with reference to symmetry and best use of the space within the 
container. About one-fourth as much syrup as fruit is a fair pro- 
portion of syrup to fruit in a jar. 

Score (*ard for Relishes: 

GtMienil appearance (color and clearness ) 15 

Clioicc and proportion of materials 10 

Size and nniforniity of pieces 1.') 

Attractiveness of pack, garnish, etc 10 

Flavor 25 

Texture of material 20 

Container 5 

Total 100 

The fresh, crisp texture is usually preferable in relishes. 
Pieces should be small, but of uniform size : attractive packing and 
placing the garnish should be considered. Usually for relishes a 
narrow strip of sweet red pepper, a small whole hot pepper, and a 
snip of some apice are placed on each seam of the jar. The label 
is placed midway between these narrow strips and one-fourth inch 
from the bottom of tlie jar. 

Suggestions for Judging. — For judging vegetable and fruit 
pickles the general score card may be used. Those who exhibit 
should be familiar with the score cards and know what points 
will Ik* considered in judging and understand why products do 
or do not win tlu* blue ribbons. When the [)remium or highest 
award is not obtained the persons competing for it should know 
how they can improve. 

Prizes. — The awardhig of prizes should be most carefully 
j)lanned, since more harm than good may be done* if awards are 
not fairly made. Open competition ofTers stimulus to many, and 
larger numbers strive to attain the mark of the goal. Money 
prizes are not always advisable rewards to offer, unless in the 
form of bank deposits. Such deposits often establish a basis for 
the beginning of a savings account. Prizes to be given in city 
and country are naturally of different types (Fig. 162). 



344 SUCCESSFUL CANXIXG AND PRESERVING 

Appropriate prizes will tend to create a greater interest in 
country life. Many such prizes have been the starting point for 
much improvement and development about the home, especially 
where the prize continues to gi-ow and pn»ves a good investment 
for the time spent on it. Funds from prizes and especially, of 
course, from the sale of garden and canned products, have made 
possible further education for many Canning Club girls. 

BIBLIOGRAPITY 

I. Cbebwell, Mabi E., Georgia Stale Culle^e of Apiculture, " GirU' and 
Boys' Club Work— A Manual for Rural Teachere." BuHptin 101, 
February. 19I6. I'ublished by the State College of Agrioulture, 
Athens. Ga. 

Z. Cbirtie, Geo. I., " Educational Contests in Atrrjculturc and Home Eco- 
nomics," Farmers' Bulletin Xo. '2'>ri, OlSci' of Experiment Station, 
U. S. Department of Asriculture, WasliinKton. 1), C. 

3. DowDiJi:. Mis« lyjis, snd \Vooi>, Miw. Bessik Stani-kt, ficorgia State 
College of Agriculture. "Girls' Club Work in Georsria.'' 1910. Pub- 
lished by the State College of Agriculture, .Athens. Ga. 



4. Lippincott'a Farm JIaniiala, 1914. PiiMished by the J. B. Tjpplncott 

Company, Pliiladelpliia. Pa. 
."i. McKiMMOS. Jane S.. -Marketing the Canning Club Product*," article 

in the Country (Icntieman. issued Junu 3. 191G. Published by the 

CurtiH Publinliing Company, Pliiladelpbia. Pa. 
fi. SoBTD.N, J. B. J., " ExhibitinfT. Classifying, and Judging Homemade 

I*r<Hlutl*," irnyettsville, Md. 2.i cents. 

7. RfjJBE. Madoe J.. "Judginf- Hounehold E.vhibits," September, 191C. 

Published by the Alabama Polytechnic Institute, Auburn, Ala. 

8. I'niled State's Department of Agriculture. Rfntes Relations Serviee. 

Office of Extension Work in the South, B-r.lI-l, -'Canning Club 
Record Book." Published by the Office of Extension Work in the 
South, States Relations Service. Department of Agriculture, Wash- 
ington, D. C. 

9. United States Department of Agriculture. A-82. "Canning Club and 

Home Demonstration Work" | Organ i7.at ion Circular). Published 
by the Office of Extension Work in the South, States Relations Service, 
Department of Agriculture, Washington. D. C, 



TKACUING CANNING AND RELATED ACTIVITIES 346 

10. United Staten Dopartmetit of Agriculture, States Kelations Service, 

bulIetinH puhlislied by tlie Office of InvestigationH on Farmers' Insti- 
tutes and Moval)le Schools. Puhliahed by the States Relations 
Service, Department of Aj^riculture, Washington, D. C. 

11. Yearly Rejiorts. Home (Jardening Association, Sixth and St. Clair 

Streets, Cleveland, Ohio. 

12. Yearly Reports, Philadelphia Vacant I-ot Cultivation Association, 2211 

Land Title Building, Philadelphia, Pa. 



APPENDIX 



ADDRESS LIST OF STATE INSTITCTIONS FROU WHICH AGRICULTURAL 
EXTENSION WORK UNDER THE SUITK-LEVER ACT IS DIRECTED 



Kor inlortnation concerning club work in any »t*te n 
of Exttnsion at tlie State C'ollc^ of Agriculture. 



* to the Director 



I 



ADDRESS 



Connecticut - 
Delaware . . . 

FloriUa 



Mftrrland . 



'Maasaciiusctts . 
Michigan 



Alabama Polytechnic Institute. Auburn. 

College of Agriculture, Lniversitv of Arizona. 
Tucson. 

KxUnsion Director. Old Stale lloiLse. Little Rock. 

lullcge of Agriculture, University of California. 
Bt-rkeley. 

State Agricultural College uf Colorado. Fort Col- 
lins. 



College 

IJaine 


of Agricuitu 
sville. 


e, Inive 


sit 


t of Florida. 


Georsia 


State Collrge 


of Agric 


lilt 


re, Athens. 


Kxtensi 


n Director, tli 


Slate tlo 




fU.i^: 


College 


of Agricuitu 


e, Unive 


rait 


V of Illinois. 



L'rbana. 
I'urdiLe fiiiv(.r,ity. Lafayette. 
Iowa State College of Agriculture and Mechanic 

Arts, Ames. 
Kansas State Apriciiltural Collefte. Manhattan. 
College of Agriculture. The Stale Cnireraity, 

T-exington. 
Ixtuisiariii State rniviT.^iity and .\jrrieullnral and 

Mechanical College, Daton Rouge. 
College of Agriculture, Tniversity of Maine, 

Maryland State College of Agriculture, College 

Park, 
'MassachuBctts Agricultural College. Amherst. 
Michigan Agricultural College, East Lansing. 



APPENDIX 



U7 



STATE 

Minnesota 

Mississippi .... 

Missouri 

Montana 

Nebraska 

Nevada 

New Hampshire. 

New Jersey 

New Mexico .... 

New York 

North Carolina. 

North Dakota. . 

Ohio 

Oklahoma 

Oregon 

Pennsylvania . . 
Rhode Island. . . 
South rarolina. . 

South Dakota . . . 
Tennessee 

Texas 

Utah 

Vernwnt 

Virginia 

Washington .... 



ADDUEfc5« 



College of Agriculture, University of Minnesota, 

University Farm, St. Paul. 
Mississippi Agricultural and Mechanical College, 

Agricultural College. 
College of Agriculture, University of Missouri, 

Columbia. 
Montana State College of Agriculture and Me- 
chanic Arts, Bozeman. 
College of Agriculture, University of Nebraska, 

Lincoln. 
College of Agriculture, UniverHity of Nevada, 

lleno. 
New Hampshire College of Agriculture and the 

Mechanic Arts, Durliam. 
Rutgers College, New Brunswick. 
New Mexico College of Agriculture and Mechanic 

Arts, State College. 
New York State College of Agriculture, Ithaca. 
North Carolina College of Agriculture and Me- 
chanic Arts, West Raleigh. 
North Dakota .Agricultural College, Agricultural 

College. 
College of Agriculture, (^liio State University, 

Columbus. 
Oklahoma Agricultural and Mechanical College, 

Stillwater. 
Oregon State Agricultural College, Corvallis. 
Pennsylvania State College, State College. 
Rhode Island State College, Kingston. 
Clemson Agricultural College of South Carolina, 

Clenison College. 
South Dakota State College. Brookings. 
College of Agriculture, University of Tennessee, 

Knoxville. 
Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas, 

College Station. 
Agricultural College of Utah, Tx)gan. 
University of Vermont and State Agricultural 

College. Burlington. 
Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Blacksburg. 
State College of Washington, Pullman. 



SUCCESSFUL CANNING AND PRESERVING 



College of Agriculture, West Virginia UniverBity, 

Morgantown. 
College of Agriculture, University of Wiaconain, 

Madiaon. 
College of Agriculture. University of Wyoming, 

Laramie. 



Canning Outfit* and Suppliea 

American Can Company, Atlanta, Georgia Home cannera, cans, and 

labels. 

Baehr, Mtb. Hemiine... .Baltimore, Maryland. .. .Tray for boiler (3inl). 
29 Garrison Lane. 

E. F. Kirwan & Company. Haiti mo re, Maryland . . . Hot-water bath canner. 

Eubanks, Geo. L Union City, Georgia. . . . Hot-water canners, cans. 

Farming Canning Ma* 

chine Company Meridian, MissiHeippi. ..llot-water bath canner. 

Favorite Manufacturing 

Company Tampa, Florida .Water-seal canner. 

Griflith &, Turner Co. . . .Baltimore, Maryland . ..Steam canners. 
205-207 N. Paca St. 

Hamp Williams Hot Springs, Arkansas. .ITome canners. 

Home Canner Manufac- 
turing Company mckorv. North Carolina. Hotwater bath cftnno'. 

HenningcT & Ayes Manu- 
facturing Company . . . Portland, Oregon Steam canners. 

Monarch Manufacturing 

Company Chattanooga, Tennessee. . Hot-water bath canner. 

Modern Canner Company.ChattanooRa. Ten n e ssep. . Hot- water bath canner. 

Northwestern Steel and 

Iron Works Eau Claire, Wisconsin. ..Steam canners. 

Phiilipa * Biittorff Manu- 
facturing Company ...Nashville. Tennessee .. .Hot-water bath canner. 

Pressure Cooker Com- 
pany Denver, Colorado Aluminum steam canners 

and cookers. 

Eaney Canner Company. .Chattanooga, Tennessee.. Hot-water bath canner. 

Royal Home Canner Com- 
pany Chattanooga, Tennessee.. Hot-water batli Ctnner. 



APPENDIX 349 

Southern Evaporator 
Company Chattanooga, Tennessee.. Hot- water bath canner. 

Sprague Canning Machin- 
ery Company Chicago Illinois Steam canners. 

222 North Wabash Ave. 

Stahl, F. S Quincy, Illinois Hot-water bath canner. 

The Candy Canner Com- 
pany Overton, Texas Hot-water bath canner. 

Utility Company Hickory, North Carolina. Hot-water canner. 

West Manufacturing 

Company I*hiladelphia, Pa ** Carliery Water-seal 

Canner." 

Mechanii'al Srals and ttrahrs for Tin and (Ha^n 

American Metal Cap 

Company Krooklyii, New York. . . . Metal bottle caps. 

Summit St. and Com- 
mercial Wharf. 

Bowers Can Seal Com- 
pany Hoston, Massachusetts.. .Automatic can sealers, 

140 Summer St. tin cans. 

Burpee & Lotson, Ltd South Bellingham, Wasli.Automatic can sealers, 

tin cans. 

Crown Cork and Seal 

Company Haltiiiiore, Chicago, San 

Francisco, and otlicr 

cities Metal bottle caps and 

sealers. 

Ilenninger & Ayes Manu- 
facturing Company . . .Portland, Oregon Automatic can sealers, 

tin cans. 

New Process Cork Com- 
pany Hol>oken, New Jersey . . .Metal 1>ottle caps. 

1.5th and Garden Sts, 

The Enterprise Manufac- 
turing Co. of Pa Philadelphia, Pa Bottle cappers — from 

three inches to 14 
inches. 

i^tratners 
W'ilmot, Castle & Co ... . Kocliester, New York Steamers. 



350 



SUCCESSfUL CASiNING AND TKESEKVING 



Healing Detirea 
Manning, Bowman & Co..Meriden, Connecticut . . .Alcoholite stoves. 
Glove Gas Light Com- 
pany Ituaton. Massacliu^ettB . .Kerosene gas stoves. 

W. J. Baker Company. . .Newport. Kentucky Gates folding camp store, 

gasoline stove. 

Tin Cans. fHaeii Jars, l-:arlhcniriirr Jars, Botllea. and Rubber Ringt 

Acme Glass Company — Ulean, New York 8- and 10-ounce ketchup 

buttles. 

Ameriean Can Company.. lialtimore, Maryland ...Tin cans. 
Pliiladclphia, reiina. 
New York City. 
Chicago. Iltino'is. 
Atlanta, Georgia. 

BallBrotluTslihi-sMan- 

ufacturinpCiiipiiny ...Munci.'. Indiana .Ma.H.m a 

Boston Wovni ll.i>c and 

Kultber Cumpany l!o-fi.n, Ma'siicliusetti 

Chesapeake Glass Com- 

pany Itallinum', Maryland 

Continental Can Com- 
pany , (*liicagu, Illinois .... 

Ilaxet-AtlHs Glas>( Com' 
pany Whrelin-. Wcwt Vir-ii 

tlemingray »!1bss Com- 
pany Ciivin;,'tun, Kciitui'ky 

Kerr Glass Maimfaiiur- 

ing C..ni|«iiiy Sand S|iriii(rs, Dklaliu 

Marion Flint Glass Cum- 
pany Maiion. Indiana .... 

Revson, Frank 

Robins, A. K., 4 Co. 



1 Klass-top jar 






Savannah Wooilcn-ware 

Company Savannali, Georgia 

Sehloss. lien S,in Francisco. Calif... 

Smalley Fruil -Tar Com- 
pany Ikwton, Ma'sachiiiiett'' . 

Sonfhern Can Company.. llaltiniort'. Maryland .. 

Staunton -lar <'or[.nra- 

lion ISntrfllo. New York 

Kllic-ott Square. 

Tennessee Can Company. Cliattanoopa. Tennessee. 



Buttles. 

Tin cans and funeral 
equipment. 

Two-piece top jars. 
■n plass jars. 



APPENDIX 351 

Thatcher Manufacturing 

Company Elmira, New York Glass jars. 

Travis Glass Toinpany. .Clarksburg, Virginia ...Glass jars. 

United States Can Com- 
pany Cincinnati, Ohio Tin cans. 

Virginia Can Company .. Buchanan, Virginia ....Tin cans. 

Western Stoneware Com- 
pany Monmouth, Illinois Earthenware jars. 

Wliite Crown Fruit Jar 

Company Louisville, Kentucky . . .White Crown screw caps 

for Mason jars. 

National Can Company. .Baltimore, Maryland . . .Tin cans. 

Vvtjetahle and Fruit Drying Equipment for Commercial and Home Use 

Allen Fruit Company. . . .Salem, Oregon. 

Beck Kvuporator Com- 
l)aKy Watsonvillc, California. 

Boutell Manufacturing 

Company Rochester, New York. 

Blymyer Iron Works 

Company Cincinnati, Ohio. 

Caledonia Bean Harvest- 
er Works Caledonia. New York. 

Devine, J. P.. Company. .Buffalo, New York. 

Fahrnev, E. B Waynesboro, Pa. 

Field, J. A., & Co St. T^uis, Missouri. 

Oth and Howard Sts. 

Gavlord, F. I) Sodus Point, New York. .Furnaces. 

(Jeneral Dehvdrator Com- 

pany New York City, N. Y. 

114-118 Liberty St. 

ft- 

(toodrich, A. C. & Co... North Yamhill, Oregon. 
Granger Manufacturing 

Company Philadelphia, Pa. 

Harrison Rich Carrolites, California. 

Miller, F. H Caledonia, New York Furnaces. 

Munsville Plow CompanyMunsville, New York. 

Palmer & Co Noble, Illinois. 

Sebastian Brothers Odin, Illinois. 

Smith*s, E., Sons Buffalo, New York. 

' Seeley, D. W Sodus Point, New York.. . Furnaces. 

Shaver, H. W^ Sodus Point, New York.. . Furnaces. 

Southern Canner and 

Evaporator Company. . Chattanooga, Tennessee. 



358 Sftr.-ESSH.X CAXSIXG AND PRESEBVINU 

Sperrr, D. R., A Co. Vorth Anrors. IllinoU. 

Kteam Ilcat Evaporating 

Company <"harl»tti>. Mii;hig>ii. 

Stutxman Xanufarturing 

Company LigniKT. Indiana. 

TroKott. W. A Fairport, Xew York, 

MinrtHnnroiiH fiirruft^ttil Cardhtiard l''>iilniirr* 
Amtrii^n Paper ProdiiPt» CompMnj.. -^t. I»ui.'t. JIUsoutE. JIKi Rrnnen Ave. 

Aodr^-H' I'apf^r fbix ( 'oinpany ( liattanoo^. Tenneiti'ee. 

Empire I'rintini.' anil Box Company.. Atlanta. fJeorgia, 

Hindi- & iJauili I'ajier (omiainy Sandusky. iJhio. 

UFore V'-tT Company Pl,ila.lplphia, Pa., 1211 Noble St. 

I«wrf-n'i' I'apifr Maniifai'Iiirin;^ Com. 

pany lj»TfniN», Kan^t*. 

4nd-lV*~t !!■■:>; Cmnjtaay AndTxm. Indiana. 

R.^-rt 'J-ir r«mi«ny-' Brw.klyn. X-w York. 

Keft'-n Maiiufji'-tiirin;,' Ci.nii.nny CliiraK... [l!iii..N. LWI W— t .l.^th St. 

■ntiiiii[''iiti & Norri.-i Cumjiany B»-t'in. Maj—ai-hn^^'tts, 

KruokTvn, X. \'., Prince and Concord 

StB.' 

Rrmikville, Indiana. 

f'arilhi^ril l'aTtfliK-">alfd ^''inlnitim 

Amsripan fan fVimpany Xew York City, X. T., -147 W. Utli St 

.\niTii'iin M'UM.-Scrvkc Company. . . . N'ewark. Xew Jerspy. 

Purity l'H|>*r Ihjttlc ComjiaTiy Wasliinuton. I). C, 1341 S. Capitol St 

Sanitary I'Mpcr liottk Coiii|>any SHndiixky. Oliiu. 

W'fU MannfHi-tiirin^ <'oTiit>anr Munroc. Michi^n. 

nyio, T. U'ilnon I'liiUdvlpbia, Pennsylvania. 



INDEX 



Accounts for canners, blanks and 

directions^ 314, 315 
Accuracy, special equipment for, 

37-39 
Acetic acid formation in vinegar, 
111, 113 
in vinegar, law require- 
ments, 109, 115 
loss in vinegar making, 114 
percentage in 60-grain vin- 
egar, 206 
fermentation of vinegar, 113, 
117 
Acid, addition to sweet juices in 
jelly making, 175, 170 
essential in fruit jelly making, 
175 
Acidity test for pickling brine, 194 
Acids, injurious to bacterial growth, 

29 
Address list, institutions directing 
extension work, 346 
lists, iirms having canning out- 
fits, etc., 348-352 
Aerobes, nature and action on food- 
stuffs, 25-27 
Agricultural extension work, insti- 
tutions directing, list, 346-348 
Air, exclusion from pickle brine, 

directions, 194, 195 
Alcohol formation in vinegar, 110, 
111 
use in protecting jelly from 
mold, 185 
Alcoholic fermentation in vinegar, 

112, 116 
America, canning introduction and 
development, 5, 6 

23 353 



Anaerobes, nature and action on 

foodstuffs, 25-28 
Antiseptics, objectionable in foods, 

31,32 
Appert, Nicholas, studies and experi- 
ments in canning foods, 1, 2 
Apollinaris tea, recipe, 121 
Appendix, 346-352 
Apple butter, recipe and directions, 
168 
chutney, recipes and directions, 

207 
cores and skins, drying and use, 

238 
juice, use with other flavors 
and colors for jelly, 186, 187 
preserves, recipe and directions, 

157, 158 
sauce canning, 124 
8yrup, directions for making, 
104,105 
Apples, canning, directions, 124 

drying, directions, 230, 237, 238 
sugar content, relation to vin- 
egar making. 111, 112 
Appropriations, state and federal, 

for demonstration work, 283 
Apricots, syrup making, directions, 
108 
drying, directions, 238 
Apron for garden work, 289 

housewife's, significance, 286 
Aprons for canning-club girls, 287, 

288 
Artichoke pickle, recipe, 221 
Artichokes, canning, directions, 133. 

134 
Asparagus canning, directions, 133 



Aapergillut, Injurious fungus, 17 
Atlantic Coast, canning iAdustrj, (t 

B. a. chutney, recipe and directions, 

200, 207 
Bacon pickle in brine, 2M 

HUgar-cured, directionn, 203, 201 

Bacteria, al'robic and anaGrobic, 

classification and action, 25- 

26 

hannful to cucumber pickles. 



n cucumber pickling, 194 

a resting stage, resistance 



21, 



nature, growth, and control, 20- 

23, 25-28 
nonsporulating, deetruction, by 

builing temperature, 21, 27 
relation to canning, importance, 

U, 12 
rvliitinn to viiit'K'Hr making. 1 10, 

114 
subataiicea injurious to, 29 
Bacteriology as applied to canning, 

15-35 
Uacillus huturicue, illustration, 24 
JlacitluB found on tomatoes, show- 
ing tIagelliF, illustration, 10 
Bacillua mega-therium , illustration, 

26 
Hailing hydrometer, description, 131 
Baltimore, canning industry, begin- 
ning, 5 
Banner of Spain chutney, recipe and 

directions, 206, 207 
Bank!>, earth, for Btoring root vege- 
tables, 251-252 
Barks, medicinal, selling to drug- 
gists, 260 
Barrels, uwe in t-upiiniber liriniog, 

bunging and turning. 10:"). 198 
Basement storage room for vege- 
'■ tables, 2S1 



Basket, fruit-press, description, 95 
holding cans or jars fur proc- 
essing. 80 
Bay, sweet, leaTes, drying, 249 
Beans, canned, grades, 307 

canning, directions, 134, 135 
dried, cooking, 247 
fermenting, directions, 215 
green, string, drying direcUons, 

243 
heat destruction of vitality for 

seed use, 243 
shelled, drying directions, 243 
protein source, 270, 270 
sterilization intermittent, for 

control of bacteria, 22, 23 
storage, 254 
llerf caHinga, MS 

corned, directions, 25fi, 2.-)!> 
dryinfr. directions. 25fl, 20O 
preserving, methods, 258-200 
Beets drying, directions, 244 
fermenting, directions, 215 
pickled, recipe. 221 
small, canning directions, 135 
llerries, canned, grading. 3U7 
canning, directions 124, 125 
drying, directions, 238, 239 
preserving, general directions, 

154 
wasliing, directions, 125 
Berry shrub, directions tor making. 

119 
Bibliography, 13, ;tJ, J8, 8.'., 80, 122, 
123, 147, 188, 227, 255, 274, 281, 
344, 345 
Blackberry flummery, recipe, 121 
Blanching, directions, 02, 03 
utensils, 38, 39 
vegetables for drying, 242 
Bloomers for garden work, 288, 280 
Boiling ham, recipe {Virginia and 
Louisiana combination), 273 



INDEX 



355 



Boiling temperature^ destructive to 

bacteria in growing state, 21, 27 

Bologna sausage, directions, 267, 

268 
Bottles, sterilizing, 98 
Bottling fruit juices, 99, 100 

grape syrup, 108 
Brands for canned goods, import- 
ance, 306 
Breakfast bacon, sugar-cured, direc- 
tions, 263, 264 
Brine, acidity test, 194 

for corned beef, directions, 258, 

259 
for cucumbers, making and test- 
ing, 102 
for curing meats, directions, 

258, 260 
for picking bacon and hams, 

264 
sealing from air, directions, 

194, 195 
use in canning vegetables, 133 
Brines, salt percentage table, 192 
Brining cauliflower, directions, 213, 
214 
onions, directions, 215 
principles and directions, 190, 
191 
Brown, Margaret and Mary Belle, 

success in canning work, 305 
Bulletins for women county agents, 

Oklahoma, 321 
Business side of canning, 300-315 
Butters, fruit, general directions, 
164, 165 

Cabbage drying, directions, 245 
storage methods, 252 

Calcium chloride, addition to water- 
bath to raise temperature, 9 

California, fruit and vegetable can- 
ning, 5 



California, open-air drying of fooda, 

229, 232 
Candied fruits, directions, 161, 162 
Cane paddle, use in canning, 38, 71, 

72,74 
Canned goods grading, 307 

selling, work by North 
Carolina canning clubs, 
300-306 
products, consumption and 
value, 1916, 11 
score card, general, 340 
storing, 76 
Canner, commercial, outfits, 77-82 

homemade, 77 
Canneries, early, establishment and 

rapid increase, 5 
Canners, steam, for home use, 87- 

90 
Canning, bacteriology of, 15-35 
beginning in England, 3 
business side of, 300-315 
club organization, 282-299 

work. North Carolina, sum- 
mary, 1912-1916, 306 
clubs, initial work, 283, 285 
members, 1916, 296 
Oklahoma, outlined pro- 
gram, 320 
output, 191i5, 11, 296 
conunercial, introduction and 
development in America, 5, 6 
equipment and preparation for, 
36-58 
improvements, 8-11 
importance in supplying varied 

diet, 12 
in glass, 71-76 
in large containers, 48 
in tin, 69-70 

industry, location and develop- 
ment, 6-8 
laws, information, 69 



356 IK 

Canning outfits uid auppliea, flrau, 
addreiB liet, 34S-362 
■cientiBc, history, 1-14 
teaching, itchool coursea, etc., 

310-346 
time-table, pTocessing bj eteam, 

91 
time-tables, hot- water proceeg, 
83-85 
Cane, cooling and protecting, 43 
etmitary, description, 49 
sealing, tools, 60, 61 
testing, 68 

tin, manufacturing, eariy and 
present methods, 3, 4 
Cantaloupe pickles, recipes, 222, 223 
Canvas for meat, yellow wash, 

recipe, 272. 273 
Capping bottles, directions, 102 

tin cans, fU 
Caps, adjusting on glass jars. 74 
Carbonate of lime, use in making 

fruit syrups 104, 107 
Carrots canning, directions, 136 
drying, directions, 244 
sweet pickled, 221 
Casings, sausage, cleaning and pre- 

oaring, 206 
Cauliflower brining, directions, 213, 

214 
Caves for storing vegetables, direc- 
tions for making, 253 
Celery leaves, drying, directions. 
248 
storage, 252, 253 
vinegar, recipe, 220 
Cellar, storage of vegetables. 251 
Cellars, outdoor, for storing vege- 
tables, directions, 253 
Cereals, substitute for bread, 27S 
Chnjrotes fermenting, directions, 215 
sweet pickled, recipe and di- 
rections, 223, 224 



Cheese, head, directions, 2G4 
Chemicals added to foods, detri- 
mental to health, 31, 32 
Chemistry Bureau, Agricultural 
Department, experiments in 
drying foods, 230 
of vinegar making, 110, 111 
Cherries canning, directions, I2S 
drying, directions, 240 
spiced, directions, 226 
vinegarette, recipe and direc- 
tions, 160 
Cherry preserves, recipe and direc- 
tions, 165, 160 
Chicago, meat canning, 6 
Children's diet, Importancp of fruits 

and vegetables, 277 
Chile peppers canning, directions, 

140 
Chili sauce, recipe and directions, 

211.212 
Chimney for outdoor canner, 82 
Chow-chow, sweet pepper, recipe 

and directions, 206 
Chutneys, deflnition, recipes and di- 
rections, 190, 206, 207 
Cider making, directions, 10.3. 104 
Cincinnati, canning industry, begin- 

Citiea, gardening and canning, 322 
Clarifying grape juice, IIT, 118 
Cleanliness, importance In control 

of bacteria, 6 
Cleveland school gardens, 323, 324 
Clock, necessity for accurate work, 

38 
Club members, assistance to one an- 
other instances. 293. 294 
work, cooperation of home and 
school, 262, 293 
Clubs, canning, organization, 282- 
29D 
canning. See aUo Canning clnbs. 



INDEX 



357 



Cold storage, use in food preserva- 
tion, 33 
Color, preserving in blanching, 63 
Coloring for jellies, note, 187, 188 
Community activities, benefits of 

club work, 293, 294 
Concentrated cider making, 103 
Concord grape juice, directions, 119 
Conserves, description, 105 

marmalades and jams, 103-173 
Containers, estimating and order- 
ing, suggestions, 45, 50 
packed, demonstration work, 

nimibcr and value, 290 
sterilizing before packing, 63, 

64 
types, dPHcription, 44-57 
Conveniences, home, results of dem- 
onstration work, 290, 297 
Cooker, agitating, description, 10 

Hee also Canner: J'rocessor 
Cooking dried fruits and vegetables, 
directions, 242, 247 
jelly, general directions, 182, 

183 
preserves, syrup density, etc., 
148-150 
Cook-stove drier, homemade, direc- 
tions for making, 235, 230 
Cooling cans, directions, 08 

preserves, directions, 150, 151 
Cooperation between home and 
school, 292, 293 
conmiunity, increased by club 

work, 293 
in growing herbs, desirability, 

248 
method of minimizing labor, 
39-41 
Copper and steel, cleaning and tin- 
ning, directions, 59, 00 
Corking fruit juices, 100 
Corks, cleaning and sterilizing, 100 



Corn, canned, annual consumption, 
report, 1916, 11 
canning, directions, 137, 138 
earliest record, Portland, 

Maine, 5 
equipment, improvement, 

8, 9 
location of leading supply, 

7 
methods, 5 
relish, recipe and directions, 

205 
sterilization intermittent, for 

control of bacteria, 22, 23 
sweet, drying, directions, 244 
Covers for jelly glasses, 184 
Crabapple marmalade, directions, 

100 
Crabapples, spiced, recipe, 222 ' 
Cranljerry ketchup, recipe and di- 
rections, 21 1 
CrtK)le sauce canning, directions, 

145-147 
Crops, profitable to girl canners, 

311, 312 
Crout. Hee Sauer kraut. 
Crystals, tartaric acid, prevention 

in jelly, 100 
Cucumber and red pepper, sweet 
pickles, 199, 200 
slices, pickled, 198 
sweet pickles, 198 
Cucumbers brining, 191, 192, 196, 
190 
fermenting, 215 
grading for pickles, 192, 193 
pickling, general directions and 
recipes, 191-200 
Curing meats, general directions, 

257, 258 
Currant cherry preserves, direc- 
tions, 155 
Currants, spiced, directions, 224 



368 HI 

Daggett, EzTft, canning industry ea- 

tablishment in United States, 5 
Dairy equipment improvement un- 
der demonstration work, 207 
Damson plums, spiced, directions, 

225 
Demonstration work anions farm 
women, results, 205-298 
ot club girls, 285, 286 
Desserts made with fruit juices, 

11B-12I 
Dial gauge on steam canner, 80 
Diet, need of fruits and vegetables 
supplied by canning. 12 
use of fruits and venctabl™, 

273-281 
varied, imjiortance. 12. 280 
Dill piekles, directions, 11)0. 213. 214 
Dispatcli in prexerviiig wlieii fri'Kli. 

importance, 25, Gl, ir>I 
Dixie relish, recipe and directions. 

204 
Dried fruit, cooking, 242 

sorting and storage, 241 
vegetables cooking, use in soups, 
etc., 247 
relienting. 24 S 
storing 246, 247 
Driers, fruit and vegetable, descrip- 
tion and use, 233-233 
homemade, directions. 233-23(1 
Dry kiln, homemade, description 

and use, 220 
Drying equipment, firms, address 
list, :IS1 
food preservation method, prin- 
ciples, 30 
foods, general iiietliods. 228-23(1 
fmita. vegetables, and herbs. 

226-25.1 
herbs, direetions and time- 
tables, 248, 240 
meats, general principles, 266 



I>urrand, Peter, English patent for 
canning in tin, 3 

Egg circles, work and number, 206 
Electric fan, use in drying food, ex- 
periments, 230 
Enamel-lined cans, description and 
advantages, 46 
necessary for certain prod- 
ucts, 124, 126, 126, 138, 
142 
Energy, sources in foods, 275 
England, early history of canning, 3 
English mushroom ketchup, 210 
Enzymes, nature, and effects on 

Kquipment and preparation for can- 
ning. .16-58 
canning, improvements and in- 
ventions, 8-11 
for girl's garden work, 289, 200 
for portable outdoor canner, 70 
special, for preserving, 151, 152 
Evaporating, method of drying 

foods. 220 
Evaporator-i, descriptions, citations, 
230 
fruit and vegetable, description 
and use, 233-236 
Exhausting tin cans, directions, 64, 

65 
Exhibits, prize, illustrations and 

suggestions, 336-330 
Extension of useful information by 
home demonstrators, 206 
work, address list of institu- 
tions directing, 346-34S 
Extracting fruit juices for jelly, 
175-176 

Fancy paclis of jelly, 186 
Feli. drying and use, 240 
Fermentation, cause, 15 



INDEX 



359 



Fermentation, destructive in vinegar 
making, cause, 114 
forms and processes, 19, 20 
in pickling brine, necessity and 

result, 194 
in vinegar making, 112, 114, 116 
use in preserving vegetables, 
215-220 
Fig canning, directions, 125, 126 
conserve, recipe and directions, 

170 
jam, directions, 167 
paste, directions, 171 
preserves, recipes and direc- 
tions, 159 
Figs, sweet pickle, recipe and direc- 
tions, 224 
Filter, fruit- juice, homemade, 98 
Financing demonstration work, 282- 

284 
Fire-box built in, outdoor canners, 

90 
Fireless cookers, installed in farm 

homes, 296 
Fire-pot for heating canning tools, 

48, 82, 83 
First-year work for girls* canning 

clubs, 286-290, 318, 319 
Fish canning, earliest record in 

America, 5 
" Flat sours," cause and appear- 
ance, 26-28 
Flavoring sauces from fruit syrups, 

uses, 108 
Flux, making, and use, directions, 

59, 64, 66 
Fly campaigns, demonstration work, 

297 
Fly-trap, homemade, illustrations, 

43,44 
Fly-traps, results of demonstration 
work, 297 
use near canning locality, 40 



Food, drying, protection from rain, 
dust and insects, 233, 240 
laws, knowledge needed In com- 
mercial canning, 69 
partially cooked, good medium 

for germ», 27 
preparation demonstration 

work, results, 296 
preserving methods, old and 

new, 1, 29-33 
spoilage, theories of early can- 
ners, 1, 2, 6 
cause, discovery, 4, 5 
Foods, canned, consumption and 
value, 1916, 11 
increased demand, 11 
classes supplying needs of body, 

275, 276 
drying, general methods, 228- 
236 
Foodstuffs, putrefaction, causes, 4, 

5, 15, 20-28 
Fourth-year canning club course, 

319 
Fruit butters and pastes, general 
directions, 164, 165 
cup, directions for making, 119 
driers or evaporators, descrip- 
tion and use, 233-236 
juices corking and sealing, 100, 
101 
extracting for jelly mak- 
ing, 175-178 
heating, 99, 100 
homemade filter, descrip- 
tion, 98 
pasteurizing, 100 
preparation, bottling, stor- 
ing, etc., 93-123 
reheating and bottling, 99, 

100 
testing in jelly making, 
178, 179 



360 IN 

Fruit juicea, usea, recipes, 110-121 
value and use, 93 
medley conaorve, recipe and di- 
rection a, leo 
nectftr, directions, 121 
preaa, homemade, construction 
and uae, 94-97 
liousehold, 94 
punch, direction a for making, 
120 
Fruita and vegetables, use in the 
diet, 275-281 
candied, directions, 161, 1G2 
canning, directions, 124-132 
time-table, hot'Water proc- 
ess, 84, 85 
cooking to extract juice, 175, 

176 
crusliing and atraining, 95, 96 
dried, storage, 241 
drying, directions, 231, 237-241 
for canning. 124-132 
importance in diet, 12 
liability tu molds, IT 
nonpectin, 174, ITS, IM 
imcking in glass jars, 71 
picking, sorting, and cleaning. 

93, 1)4 
prcpuration for canning, scald- 
in;;, peeling, and blanching, 
01-03 
prompt canning important to 

BUCCCBS, 24 

properties necesaary for jelly 

making, 174. 175 
selection, sorting and grading, 

00,01 
apiced, recipes, 222-220 
underripe, use in jelly making, 

175 
wa:<hing, peeling, coring, etc., 

utenaila, 30, 37 



Free-run juice, auperiority, 90-S9, 

106 
French method of drying green 
vegetables, 230, 231 
government, work in discovery 
of canning methods, 1, 2 
Fuel for smokehouee, and directions 

for Are, 271 
Fungi, injuriouB to fruits and vege- 
Ublea, 17 



Garden kneeling pad and apron, 239, 

290 
Gardening in cities, 322 
Gasoline stove for canning, 82-90 
Gauge, dial, steam cooker, 89, 90 
General Education Board, help to 

demonstration work, 282 
Germs causing putrefaction, nature 

and control, 20-28 
(iinger apples, directions. 157 

pears, directions, 157 
Girts' dill) meetings, program, sug- 
gestions, 200-292 
Nee aUo Canning cllllia 
Girls, fine marketing records tor 
canned goods, 305 
responsibility for their own 
canned products, 301-303, 310 
(ilnss, canning in, 71-76 

containers, shapes, sizes, and 

types, 52-57 
first uae in canning, 2, 3 
jars, packing for shipment, 312, 
313 
selection. 52, 53 
steriliting, 71 
testing the seals, 28, 20 
Glasaea, jelly, filling and covering, 

183,184 
Golden pumpkin chips, directions, 

l.'iS 
Goldtbwaite, Mias, mention, 198 



INDEX 



361 



Gooseberries canning, directions, 
126 
spiced, recipe and directions, 
224 
Green mango pickles, recipe and di- 
rections, 208 
tomato pickle, recipe and direc- 
tions, 201 
Greens canning, directions, 143 
Grading canned goods, 307 

cucumbers for pickling, 192, 

193 
fruits and vegetables, 60, 61 
Grape cup, directions, 119 
frapp^, directions, 121 
jam, directions, 167 
juice bottling, 117 

clarifying, 117, 118 
heating in syrup making, 
107 
ketchup, recipe and directions, 
210 
Grape syrup, directions, 106-108 
Grapefruit marmalade, directions, 

166 
Grapes, spiced, directions, 224 
crushing and pressing, 100 
green, pectin content, 118 
Guava butter, directions, 168 
need of acid in jelly, 175 

Ham baking, recipe, 273 

boiling, recipe (Virginia and 
Louisiana combination), 273 
cutting, salting, and smoking, 
261-263 
Hams, pickling in brine, 264 
Hawaii, pineapple canning, rapid 

development, 7, 8 
Head cheese, directions, 264 
Health, importance of vegetable 

food in diet, 277-279 
Heat, use in food preparation, 
methods, 32, 33 



Heating grape juice for syrup, 107 
Herbs, drying, directions, 248-250 
importance in cooking, 248 
use in confectionery and per- 
fumery, 249 
use in medicine, possibilities, 
lUt, 250 
Hermetic seal jar, description and 

use, 55, 56, 74, 76 
History of development of scientific 

canning, 1-14 
Hog casings, 268 

Home conveniences, installation in 
farm homes, 296, 297 
demonstration clubs, canning 
output, 1916, 11, 296 
work for women, Oklahoma, 

321 
work, object, funds, agents, 
etc., 2B2-299 
economics work, expenditures, 
sources and amounts, 283, 284 
storage of vegetables, 250-254 
vinegar making, 109-117 
Homemade canner, 77 

conveniences, results of demon- 

stration work, 296, 297 
driers, description and direc- 
tions, 233-236 
fly-trap, illustration, 43, 44 
fruit-press, construction and 

use, 94-97 
fruit-juice filter, description, 98 
sealing wax, recipe, 101 
Hominy, lye, preparation and can- 
ning, 138, 139 
Hydraulic pressure, use in drying 
foods, 230 

Iceless refrigerators, demonstration 

work, results, 296 
Ices, fruit, directions for making, 

120 
Illinois, canning industry, 7 



Indoor nnning, &rru)Keinent of 
equipDMut, 3S, 37 
drying, commercUl methods, £30 
iDtermittent proceaBing, deflnition 

And direction, 22, 23, 78, 83 
Invoice for nhipmenta of cumed 

goods, 313 
Iron in vegetable foods, 277 

Juna, general directions, 103, IH 
grading, 307 

marmalades and preserres, 163- 
173 
Jar lifters, description and use, 39 
Jars, glass, selection, G2, 53 
Jellies, fancj, use of pectin, flaTor- 
ing, etc., 186 
storing, 185 
Jellometer, description and use, 180 
Jelly cooking, quantity of juice, 180 
general directions, 182 
crystals, prevention, 100 
making, 174-188 
pouring into glaaHea and cover- 
ing, 183, 184 
protection from mold, 18, 30, 

183, 184 
ijualitics essential to good prod- 
uct, 174 
score card, 342 
testing, directions, 133 
" weeping," prevention, 185 
Jobber, selling to, in marketing 

canned goods, 311 
Juices, fruit, bottling tor jelly mak- 
ing, 99, 100 
fruit, extraction, methods, 94-9S 
fruit. See alto Fruit juice 

Kansas City, meat canning, 6 
Kerosene stove, gas- flame, use in 

canning, 82-00 
Ketchup, definition, recipes, and di- 
rection!, 190, 209-211 



Ketchup grading, 307 

KetUe, steam-jacketed, description, 

0, 161 
Kiln, dry, homemade, description 

and use, 229 
Knives, paring, selection, 36 
Kumquat marmalade, directions, 166 
preserves, recipe and diretrtions, 
1E6 



Lactic acid, use in preservation of 

vegeUbles, 20, 31 
Labelling fruit juices, 102 
glass jars, directions, 76 
jelly glasacB, directions, 184 
tin cans, 68, 69 
Labels, can, importance, and printed 

contents, 308, 300 
Laboratory, small, list of supplies, 

suggestions, 333-335 
Labor-saving devices for canning, 
8-11 
results of demonstration 
work, 297 
Lard, trying out, directions, 265, 28fl 
Lawrence, Major, spec i Ilea tions for 

smokehouse, 269-273 
Laws, canned products, obtaining in- 
formation, 69 
Leaves, herb, drying, 248 
Legal standard, vinegar. New York, 

109, 115 
Lemon butter, directions, 108 

syrup, directions, lOB 
Lightning-seal jar, description, 63, 

64 
Lima beans, canning, directions, 136 

drying, directions, 243 
Lime carbonate, use in making fruit 
syrupi, 103, 104, 107- 
water, use in drying figs, 240 



INDBX 



363 



Liquid smoke, formula and use, 257 
Leeks, drying, directions, 245 
Lumber for constructing smoke- 
house, list and cost, 269, 270 
Lussac, Guy, investigations of can- 
ning, and theory of food spoilage, 2 
Lye hominy, preparation and can- 
ning, 138, 139 
solution for soaking olives, 218 
use in peeling peaches, 126 

Macedoine fruit mixture, directions, 

129 
Machine for sealing cans, 40, 51 
Machines for canning corn, improve- 
ment on old methods, 8, 9 
labor-saving, use in canning, 
8-11 
Maine, canning industry, 7 
Malate of lime, settling in apple 

syrup, 105 
Malic acid, disappearance from vine- 
gar, 114, 115 
removal from apple juice, 
103, 105 
Mango, sweet, recipe and directions, 

209 
Mangoes (pickles), definition, recipes 

and directions, 190, 207-209 
Marjoram, drying, directions, 249 
Marketing canned goods, girls' clubs, 
300 
policy for canning clubs, 309, ; 
310 
Marmalade, general directions, 163 
Marmalades, jams, and conserves, 

103-173 
Maryland, canning industry, 7 
Meal, well-balanced, requirements, 

279, 280 
Meat canvas, yellow wash, recipe, 
272, 273 
packing in smokehouse, direc- 
tions, 271 



Meats drying, general principles, 256 
preservation, 256-274 
■ should be accompanied by vege- 
table foods, 278 
smoked, keeping, 271, 272 
Medicinal herbs, gathering and dry- 
ing, 249, 250 
Medley fruit conserve, recipe and 

directions, 169 
Mince-meat, green tomato, recipe and 

directions, 172, 173 
Mineral materials supplied by foods, 

275, 276 
Mint drying, directions, 249 

jelly, directions, 187, 188 
Mississippi normal-school garden 

work, 332 
Mixed pickles, definition, recipes, 

and directions, 190, 200-204 
Mixtures, fruit, canning, directions, 

129 
Mock olives, directions, 220 
Mold prevention in canned foods, 
jellies, etc., 18, 30, 151, 183, 184 
Molds, nature, growth, injury to 

food, and control, 15-19 
Money crops for girls' canning gar- 
dens, 311, 312 
*' Mother," vinegar, addition in vine- 
gar making, 113 
Muscadine grape syrup, directions 

for making, 106-108 
Mushroom ketchup, English, recipe 

and directions, 210 
Mushrooms, drying directions, 246 

pickled, directions, 220 
Mustard dressing for pickles, direc- 
tions, 203 
Durham, first prepared by a 

woman, 248 
pickle, recipe and directions, 
201-204 



Navjt beftDS, h«rvMtiiig dsd itoring, 

264 
N«w Jeraey, canning indiutr;, 7 
New York, canning indostiy begin- 

City, expenditures for miUi, 
bread, «gg>, bjmI canned foods, 
II 
evaporators, drying vegetables 

(or French army, 230 
Irnit and vegetable canning, 7 
vinegar making and l^al stand- 
ard, 106-117 
Wayne county, evaporatora, 
number in use, 229 
Normal schools, garden work and 

instruction, 325, 330-333 
North Carolina canDiog club girls, 
illustratiuns, 41, 42 
canning clubs, business experi- 
ences. 300-313 
county agents, illustration, 313 
Nutrients supplied by foods, 275- 
2B0 

Oil stove for heating copper and 

steel, 43, 47 
Oklahoma, girls' clubs, program, out- 






330 



women's clubs, program, out- 
line, 321 
Okra canning, directions, 130 

drying, directions, 245 
Olives, brining, directions, 219 

pickling, directions, 217-29) 

varieties used for pickling, 217 

washing, directions, 218, 21B 
Onion vinegar recipe, 220 
Ouions, brining, directions, 215 

drying, directions, 245 

pickling. 215, 216 

storing, 254 
Open kettle for processing, descrip- 
tion, 74 



Open-air drying adapted to dry cli- 
mates, 229, 232, 237 
Orange ice, recipe, 120 

marmalade, recipe and direc- 
tions, 166 
pectin, preparation, 166, 187 
peel, source of pectin, 175 
mur, preserves and marmalade, 
156, 165, 166 
Orange- lemon-grapefruit marmalade, 

recipe, 166 
Or^on, canning salmcHi, 
Organisms causing fermentation and 

putrefaction, 15-26 

Outdoor canning, arrangement of 

tables and equipment, 40-44 

caves or cellars for storing vcge< 

tables, 253 

Oxygen, relation to bacteria, 25-28 

Packing canned goods for shipment, 
31Z 
containers, directions, 64 
fruit and vegetables in glass 

jars for canning, 71 
preserves, in jars, 150, 151 
Paddles, use in canning, and direc- 
tions for making, 38, 71, 72, 74 
Paddling contents of glass jars to 

exclude air, 71, 72 
ParaffiD, use in sealing pickle con- 
Uiners, 195 
use on jelly to prevent molds, 
1S3-184 
Parasitic organisms, illustrations, 

1« 
Parcels poet, shipments of canned 

goods, 313 
Parsley leaves, drying, directions, 

246, 249 
Parsnips, drying, directions, 244 
Paste for labels, formula and direc 
tioDS for use, 68 



i 



INDEX 



365 



Paste, tomato, recipe and directions, 

212 
Pastes, fruit, general directions, 170, 

171 
Pasteur, discoveries in bacteriology, 

importance, 4, 5 
Pasteurization, use in preserving 

food, 32 
Pasteurizer made of wash boiler, 100 
Pasteurizing fruit juices, 100 
Payments for canned goods, man- 
agement, 313 
Peacli butter, recipe and directions, 
168 
jam, recipe and directions, 167 
preserves, recipe and directions, 

156, 157 
roll or leather, directions, 172 
Peaches, canned, grading, 307 
canning directions, 126, 127 
drying, directions, 240, 241 
peeling, lye method, 126 
sweet pickled, recipes and di- 
rections, 225 
Peanut butter, recipe and directions, 

168, 160 
Pear preserves, recipe and directions, 

157 
Pears, canning, directions, 128 
drying, directions, 241 
spiced, recipe and directions, 
225, 226 
Peas, canned, annual consumption, 
report, 1016, 11 
canning, directions, 130, 140 
dried, storage, 254 
green, drying, directions, 243 
sterilization, intermittent, for 
control of bacteria, 22, 23 
Pectin developed by heat, 176 
essential in jelly making, 17*5 
testing in fruit juice, 178-180 
orange, preparation, 186, 187 



Pectin sources, 118, 175 
Peeling fruits and vegetables, 61, 62 
PeniciUium, injurious fungus, 17 
Pepper mango, stuffed, directions, 
207, 208 
relish, directions, 205 
sauce, directions, 212 
sweet, chow-chow, 206 
Peppers and cucumbers, sweet pickle, 
109, 200 
canning, directions, 140 
drying, directions, 245-240 
Perennial gardens, for advanced club 

workers, 200 
Picking herbs for drying, 248 
Pickle, preservation by acids in- 
jurious to bacteria, 29, 31 
Pickles, recipes and directions, 196- 

209 
Pickling, directions, 189-227 

meat, formula for small pieces, 
260 
Pigs' feet, pickled, directions, 265 
Pimiento ketchup, recipe and direc- 
tions, 211 
Pimiento canning, directions, 140 
Pineapple canning, Hawaii, develop- 
ment and improvement, 7, 8 
preserves, recipe and directions, 

160 
syrup, formula, 108 
Pits, outdoor, for keeping root vege- 

tables, 251, 252 
Plum conserve, recipe and directions, 
169, 170 
preserves, directions, 157 
Plums, canning, directions, 128, 120 
drying, directions, 241 
use as mock olives, directions, 
220 
Pork brining, 260, 264 

curing, smc^ing, and keeping, 
general directions, 261-268 



366 ^^ 

Fork, cutting and trimming, direc- 
tions, 261, 262 

preserving, directions, 261-208 
BaUBBge, directions, 266, 267 
Portable canner, description, 43, 49 
Portland, Maine, earlj canning ex- 
periments of Isaac Winslow, 5 
Poster for canning-club products, 302 
Poultry clubs, Oklahoma, outlined 
prugram, 320 
demonstration work, results, 



206 

products, 



ustration work, 



-290 



Prescott, S. C, investigations 

canning technic, 
Preparation and equipment for c 

ning, 3ti-58 
Preservation of foods, methods. 1 



30 
Preserves, 148-162 

cooling and packing. 150, 151 
grading, 301 
scaling, I.'>1 
score card, 342 
Preserving powders, use, detrimental 
to health, 31 
vegetables by [em i en tat ion. 215- 
220 
Press, fruit, homemade, 94-07 

lever, for fruit juice, construc- 
tion and use, 05-97 
Prices of canned products, 191G- 

1917, 310, 311 
Prize winners, stories of work aud 

use of money, 294 
Prizes for exhibits, 343, 344 
Processing at high temperature, B7- 



Processing, directions, 66, 74, 77-86 

methods, advantages, 9, 10 

olives, directions, 219 
Processors, descriptions, 0, 10, 36 
Program, girls' club meetings, sug- 
gestions, 290, 291 
Protein, sources in foods, 276, 276 
Publications, United States Govern, 
ment, usefulness, 12 

^ee alto Bibliography 
Pumpkin drying, directions, 245 

preserves, directions, 158 
Pumpkins, canning, directions, 140- 

142 
Punch, fruit, recijves, 120 
Putrefaction, causes, 4, 5, 15, 20- 



Questions for use in teaching, 12, 
13, 33, 34, 57. 70, 76, 83, 92, 121, 
122, 132. 147, 162. 173, 188, 228, 
254, 274. 280, 315 
Quince cheese, directions, 171 

pectin content, and need of acid 
to develop, 175 

Rahn, Otto, experiments with brine. 

101 
Rapidity in canning, importance, 

01-04 

Raspberry ice and doat, recipe, 120 

Raspberries, drying, illustration and 
directions, 232, 238 

Records, canning suggestions, 315 

Retleclor drier, directions for mak- 
ing, 234, 235 

Reheating fruit juice, 99 

Relishes, definition, recipes and di- 
rections, 190, 204-206 
score card, 343 

Retorts, steam, for processing, types, 
37, 60, 01 



INDEX 



367 



Rhubarb canning, directions, 126, 
142 
conserve, directions, 169 
spiced, recipe, 221 
syrup, directions, 108 
Rings, rubber, adjusting and precau- 
tions, 57, 74 
Root vegetables, storage, 251, 252 
Roots, medicinal, 250 
Rubbers, adjusting and precautions, 

57, 74 
Rummage pickle, recipe and direc- 
' tions, 200 

Russell, H. L., application of bac- 
teriology to canning, 5 

Saccharometer, description and use, 

38, 121), 132, 152, 179 
Sadding. Mr., introduction of can- 
ning into England, 3 
Safety-valve seal jar, description, 51 
Sage drying, directions, 249 
Sales, demonstrations by canning 
club girls, 303 
direct to institutions, etc., 303 
Salmon canning, location, 6 
Salometer, description and use, 191, 

192 
Salt, addition to water bath to raise 
temperature, 9 
percentage scale use in testing 

brine, 38 
use in preserving food, 30, 31 
Salting hams, shoulders, and bacon, 

262 
Saltpetre, use in smoking meats, dis- 
cussion, 256, 257 
Sanitary cans, description, 49 
Saprophytes, relation to canned 

products, 15 
Sassafras leaves, drying and use as 

herb, 249 
Sauces, definition, recipes and direc- 
tions, 190, 211-213 



Sauer kraut, directions, 214 

preservation by acids injurious 
to bacteria, 29 
Sausage making, directions, 266-268 

mixed, directions, 267 
Savory drying, directions, 249 
Sawmills, as market for canned 

goods, 301 
Scalding, fruits and vegetables, 61, 

62 
Scales, necessity for accurate work, 

38 
Scholarships, won by club girls, 296 
School gardens, 324 
Score cards for judging products, 

use, 339-343 
Scrapple, directions, 264, 265 
Screening houses, results of demon- 
stration work, 297 
Screens, to protect food while dry- 
ing, 233 
Screw-top jars, description, 54 
Scum yeast in brine, prevention, 194 
Scuppernong grape juice, directions 

for making, 118 
Seal, importance in canning, 2B 

testing, 28, 29 
Sealing, fruit juices, 101 

glass jars, directions, 74-76 

various devices, 53-57 
jellies, directions, 185 
sanitary cans, machine, 49-61 
preserves, 157 
wax, homeimade recipe, 101 
Seals and sealers, firms, address list, 

349 
Seasoning for canned vegetables, 133 
Second-year canning club course, 319 
work for girls canning clubs, 
290 
Seeds useful in medicine, 250 
Self-fermentation, use as preserva- 
tion method, 31 
Serving, work of club girls, 286-290 



368 



INDEX 



Sheep casings, 268 

Shipping canned products, 313 

Shoulders, cutting, salting, and 

smoking, 261-263 
Shrub, berry, directions for making, 

119 
Skimming jelly, directions, 182, 183 
Slicing apples for drying, 237 
Smith-Lever Extension Act, 283 
Smoke, control in smokehouse, 271, 
272 
liquid, formula and method, 257 
Smoked meats, keeping, 272, 273 
Smokehouse, description, construc- 
tion, and use, 268-272 
Smoking meats, general directions, 
256, 257 
meat>i in smokehouse, directions, 

270-272 
pork, 263 
Sodium chloride, use in preserving 

food, 30, 31 
Soup mixture, canned, grading, 307 
canning, directions, 145 
vegetables, drying for use of 
soldiers during war, 230 
Sour orange marmalade, recipe and 
directions, 165, 166 
preserves, directions, 155 
Southern States, home work of girls 

and women, 335, 336 
Spatula use in canning, 38 
Specifications and plans for conveni- 
ences, demonstrations, 297 
for constructing smokehouse, 
269, 270 
Spiced cucumber mango, directions, 
209 
salad recipe and directions, 

199 
pickles, directions, 196 
damson plums and cherries, di- 
rections, 225 



Spiced fruits, recipes, 222-226 
green tomatoes, recipe, 221 
pears, formula and directions, 

225, 226 
rhubarb, recipe, 221 
vinegar, recipe, 208 
Spices for canned pumpkin, direc- 
tions, 141 
use in preserving food, 30 
Spinach canning, directions, 142, 143 
Spoilage cucumber pickles caused by 
bacteria, 194 
food, theories of early canners, 
1.2,6 
cause, discovery, 4, 5 
Spores, mold, growth and spread. 17 
yeast, distribution and control, 
20 
Square tin cans, 48 
Squash canning, directions, 143 

drying, directions, 245 
Standardizing canned goods, 301 
Standards in canning, 306, 307 
State agents, home demonstrations, 

work, results, 285, 286 
Starter, addition in vinegar mak- 
ing, 113-116 
Steam canners, small, for home use, 
87-90 
gauge on canner regulation, 89, 

90 
retorts, types, description, 87- 
90 
Steamers, companies, address, 349 
Steam- jacketed kettle, description 

and illustration, 161 
Steam-pressure outfit for home can- 
ning, illustration. 89 
Steel and copper cleaning, direc- 
tions, 59, 60 
and tipping copper for sealing 
cans, 50, 51 



INDEX 



369 



Sterilization by heat, use in food 
preservation, 32, 33 
intermittent method, 22f, 23 
Sterilizing containers before pack. 

ing, 63, 64, 71 
Storage, cold, use in food preserva- 
tion, 33 
of dried fruit, 241 
of dried vegetables, 246, 247 
of vegetables, 250-254 
Storing bottled fruit juices, 103 
canned products, 76 
jellies, directions, 185 
Stove for heating tools, 82 
Stoves, kerosene and gasoline, for 

canning, 82-90 
Straining fruit juice for jelly, 175- 

178 
Straughn, Doctor, invention of jell- 

ometer, 180 
Strawberry ice, recipe, 120 

jelly with orange pectin, direc- 
tions, 187 
preserves, recipe and directions, 
154, 155 
String beans, canning, directions, 

134, 135 
Stuffed pepper mango, directions, 

207, 208 
Stuffing sausages, directions, 260, 267 
Substances supplied by diet, 275- 

280 
Sugar, addition to fruit juice, de- 
pendent on pectin content, 
178-180 
addition to juice in jelly mak- 
ing, 181, 182 
hydrometer. See Saccharom- 

eter 
in apples, relation to vinegar, 

111, 112 
proportions for fruit syrups, 108 

for preserves, 153, 154 
quantity for jelly, table, 179 



Sugar syrup table, 132 

use in preserving food, 30 
Sulfur, use in drying fruits, 230, 

231, 237 
Summer short-courses in canning, 

suggestions, 317, 318 
Sun drying of foods, 231, 232, 237 
Sun-cooked preserves, directions, 155 
Supplies for small laboratory, list, 

333-335 
Sweet bay leaves, drying, 249 
pickles, directions, 222-226 
fruits suitable for, 189 
potatoes, canning, directions, 
143 
storage, 253, 254 
'* Swells," cause, 26-65 
Syrup, apple, directions for making, 
104, 105 
density for canning various 
fruits, 124, 125, 126-128, 
129 
for preserves, 148, 150, 154, 
158, 159, 162 
making, directions, 71 
testing, 152 
Syrups, fruit, directions for making, 
103-108 

Table for testing apple juice, etc., 

for pectin, 179 
Tables, arrangement for outdoor 
canning, 40, 43, 45 
time, for processing fruits and 
vegetables, 83, 84, 85, 91 
Tarragon vinegar, recipe, 220 
Tartaric acid crystals in jelly, pre- 
vention, 100 
Teacher, co<}peration with home and 

club work, 292 
Teaching canning and related ac- 
tivities, 316-345 



Temperature, ruaing, vArioui de- 
vices uaed in open-kettle method, 
9 

Testing canned goods by grocery- 
men, 303 
fruit juice, for pectin, 178-180 
jelly, directions, 183 
seal of can, es 
syrup, 152 
Texas, Denton Stat« Induatrial Col- 
lege, garden work, 333 
Thermometer, use in drying food, 
242 
use in preserving and jelly mak- 
ing, 38, ISS, 164, 182, 183 
Third-year canning club courses, 310 
Thyme drying, directions, 240 
Time-table for proceaaing by steam, 

91 
Time>tablea, hot-water process, 93- 

85 
Tin, canning in, 5B-70 

cans, early types and develop- 
ment of manufacture, 3, 4 
manufacturing, changes in 

apparatus, 3 
shapes, aizea, and styles, 44, 

51 
testing the seals, 28, 20 
container for preserving foods, 

development, 3, 4 
utenails, objections, 38, 130 
Tipping cans, directions, fl5, 06 

copper and atecl, description 

and cleaning, 50, 51. 50, QO 

Tomato canning, location of industry 

and supply, 7 

green, mi nee- meat, recipe and 

directions, 172, 173 
green pickle, recipe and direc- 
tions, 201 
ketchup, recipe and direcUons, 

209, 210 
past«, recipe and directions, 212 



Tomato |tur«e canning, directions, 
14S 
relish, uncooked, recipe and di- 
rections, 206 
Tomatoes, canned, annua) conaump- 
tioD, report, 1916, 11 
grading, 307 
canning, directiona, ]43-14d 
green, spiced, recipe, 221 
liability to molds, 17, 18 
yellow, preserves, recipe and di- 
rections, 109 
Tongue, cured, recipe and directions, 

260 
Tools for sealing cans, 50, 52, 50, 60 

heating, suggestions, 82, 85 
Turnips, canning, directions, 145 
Tyndall discoveries in bacteriology, 
importance, 4, 5 

Underwood, W. L., investigations of 

canning technic, 6 
Underwood, William, early work in 

commercial canning, 5 
Uniformity in size and quality of 

products desirable, 61 
Uniforms, canning-club girls', de- 

Bcription, 286-288 
Utensils for preparing and canning 
fruita and vegetables, 36-38 
for pickle making, 189 

Vacant lot gardening, 322 
Vacuum driers, use in drying foods, 

230 
Van Tapacott, Bettie, canning work, 

304 
Vegetable driers or evaporators, de- 
scription and use, 233-238 
soup mixtures, drying, direc- 
tions, 246 
Vegetables and fniita, vsa in tha 
diet, 275-281 
canneries, location, 6, 7 



INDEX 



371 



Vegetables, canning, directions, 133- 
147 
time-table, hot-water proc- 
ess, 83, 85 
time-table, processing by 
steam, 91 
dried, preparation for the table, 
247 
sweating, reheating and 
storing, 246, 247 
drying, directions, 242-247 

in evaporators for use of 
soldiers, 230 
for canning, 133-147 
green, drying by pressure, 

French method, 230 
home storage, 250-254 
importance in diet, 12 
j)acking in glass jars for can- 
ning, 71 
preparation for canning, 01-63 

for drying, 242 
preserving by fermentation, 

215-220 
processing by cteam, time-table, 

91 
prompt canning, importance to 

success, 25, 61, 151 
selection, sorting, and grading, 

60, 61 
washing, peeling, etc., utensils, 
36, 37 
Ventilators, smokehouse, descrip- 
tion and need, 270, 271 
Vinegar, good, requirements, 115- 
117 
law requirements, 109, 115 
making, chemistry of, 110, 111 

directions, 108-117 
poor, causes, 115 
sixty-grain, equivalent in acetic 

acid, 206 
spiced, recipes, 208, 217 
use in preserving food, 30 



Vinegars, flavored, recipes, 220 
Virginia, normal-school garden 
work, 330, 331 
outdoor canning, demonstra- 
tions, 46, 47 
Vitamins supplied by fruits and 
vegetables, 279 

Washington, salmon canning, 6 
Wat-er-bath, original canning 

methods, 1, 2, 9 
Watermelon rind, gingered, recipe 
and directions, 158, 159 
pickles, directions, 222 
preserves, recipe and direc- 
tions, 158 
Watts family, tine record in canning 

work, 305 
Wax, sealing, homemade recipe, 101 
Willard JSehool Farm, gardens and 

canning work, 324-326, 328 
Winslow, Isaac, work in canning, 5 
Winter garden demonstrations, 296 
Wire basket with steam canner, de- 
scription and use, 9 
baskets for blanching fruits, 9, 
38 
U'omen county agents and funds 
available, 1914-1917, 284 
farm, extension work, 282, 295, 
298 
Women's clubs, organization, 296 

Yeast germs, action in fermentation, 
112 
niiture, growth, and reproduc- 
tion, 19, 20, 21 
scum, prevention in pickling 
brine, 194 
Y'ellow wash for meat canvas, recipe, 
273 

Zinc tops for jars, objections, 54 



OCT 3 1917 



^^ 



(? L 




3 9015 00499 5216 



A 






* 



DO NOT REMOVE 

OR 

junmuTEaRD 



J 



