TX 

.57 



N 



C A. SPOOLER 







Class ___l_LM:t 
Book 



,10 



COEmiGHT DEPOSm 



Education in Economy 

How to Save by 
Kno\vlecIge of Domestic Economy 

An Exhaustive Treatise by 

C. A. SPOOLER 



How to Buy and What to Buy in 
Meats, Poultry, Fish, Game and Provisions 

How to Cook, Serve and Conserve 

With Numerous Color Plates 



PUBLISHED 
BY THE AUTHOR 

POMONA, CALIFORNIA 

1917 



ST 



COPYRIGHTED 1916 

BY 

C. A. SPOOLER 



DEC 18 1916 

©CI.A446852 



Education in Economy 

in Selection and Purchase of Meats 
By C. A. SPOOLER 

Does it not seem strange that the house wife, in whose 
care the earnings or income has been placed, knows so 
little about the meaning of economy? Although she will 
deny and inconvenience herself by doing without many 
things which appeal to her personally, in order that it might 
be possible to have the things which the bread winner and 
family enjoy. 

This theory of economy is practiced in the home of the 
banker, the bookkeeper on a $70.00 per month salary, the 
clerk in some department store, and so on down to the poor 
fellow that earns his wage by manual labor. The smaller 
the wage the greater the sacrifice on the part of the manager 
of the home. 

W^e are all striving with the same point in view. Some 
day we will not have this sacrifice and this struggle to 
make. But friend, let us be honest with facts, with the 
main things that are the cause of this sacrifice. If you 
were to invest your earnings in some line of speculation, 
and through poor management of the president of that 
company, all was lost, you would say "I would not have 
lost if the money had been invested more conservatively." 
Then,, friend, how can you, in this age of the high cost of 
living, expect to save if you do not spend that salary in the 
way it will buy the most and go the furthest, and still 



enjoy, with your family, those thin<^s you ha\c a right to 
enjoy? This bcinc^ the case there must be something radi- 
cally wrong with the management of the salary at home. 

Let us get down to practical business and determine 
where the fault lies and then educate ourselves to appre- 
ciate values and bargains in the things needed and used in 
the home. Ask yourself this question : Is your bank ac- 
count any larger at the present date than it was one year 
ago? If not, what is the reason? "High cost of living," 
you say. Has not the mother or manager made just as 
much self-sacrifice as usual? Yes indeed, she has. Per- 
haps even more, for if any member of the family must do 
without conveniences, luxuries, etc., it is mother or the 
manager of the home. But in the end we cannot see why 
the bank account is no larger. 

After much thought along the line of economy you may 
finally decide that the merchants realize that you will pay 
exhorbitant prices and charge you accordingly, and that is 
the reason why such a small amount is saved from your 
week's wages. If this be the true solution, what is to l)e- 
come of us when we must fall in line wdtli the old men's 
class? Manual labor! Is this a very bright future to look 
forward to? I think not. And it is not necessary if we will 
only use the practical way and proper judgment in how and 
what to buy for the supplying of the household. You can- 
not censor the merchant if you cultivate an appetite for the 
things which the banker and wealthy man may indulge in. 
Do not blame the clerk or merchant if you yourself do not 
know how to buy the things from which you will be able 
to get the best value for the money. The merchant, in or- 
der to do business, must make a profit on his goods. If you 
insist upon purchasing the things which you cannot alTord 
it is not his fault that you cannot increase your savings 
account. Keep this one important thing in mind, first know 



what you want. After that educate yourself to be a judge 
of values, then insist and demand that you get what you 
ask for. The latter may be done in a courteous, yet firm, 
manner. Your merchant will comply with your requests as 
far as possible, for in this age of close competition he wants 
your trade and cannot alTord to do otherwise. He needs 
your business to swell the volume of his business, and if 
you are trading with some one who does not appreciate 
your business, trade with some one who will. But it is hard 
for any merchant to fill vour order if you yourself do not 
know what you want. If you will educate yourself so that 
you will know the practical names instead of cook book 
terms, you will soon realize the difference in the quality of 
the meat you receive. Also, it is well to keep in mind that 
a pleasant smile and a kind manner of addressing a clerk 
will result in the selection of quality for you in 90*}^ of your 
trading. It is not at all necessary to become familiar, just 
treat the manager or clerk as though they were human like 
yourself. You can insist upon your particular choice and 
yet be kind about it. 

There is more real food value in meat than in any other 
form of food you may buy. But as demand regulates price, 
if you have your part in the demand for the most expensive 
cuts of meat you will receive neither food value nor quality. 
Study the cheaper cuts and use the fireless cooker, then 
judge for yourself. If there are any questions you wish to 
ask which are not answered in this book, or any other in- 
formation desired regarding the selection or the quality of 
meat which are not made plain in my demonstrations, I 
shall be glad to answer you in person if you will address me 
at my home office. I guarantee to you a saving of 50% on 
your meat bill if you will follow the instructions in my book. 
By the use of recipes and instructions as to how to prepare 
and cook your meat, it is possible to have the best of quality 



at all times, and at much less cost to you. You must be the 
judge, not your butcher, for what might be your choice 
another customer would not desire. For example : You 
may prefer your meat fat, while another may care to have 
all lean meat, consequently, you must be the judge and be 
able to appreciate value when you see it. All receipts and 
instructions in this book are from practical use and exper- 
ience. 

Instructions for the sick room, contained herein, are 
from those who have been most successful in the practical 
use of the same. 



Selection of the Market 

First of all, select a reliable trading place. 

Use your eyes. Is the market neat and clean? Does 
the butcher and his clerks keep themselves neat and clean? 
Is the meat out in the open so that flies and dust germs 
can come into contact with it? Will the butcher object 
to your going through his refrigerator and back room at any 
unexpected time? And most important of all, does he 
handle government inspected meat? 

Take into consideration the fact that you pay the 
government inspector to inspect and condemn all diseased 
meat. You pay him just the same as you pay your County 
Clerk, your Chief of Police, or any other city, county or 
government official. The fact that the meat is government 
inspected does not mean that it will cost you any more. 
But the eating of uninspected meat might result in a doctor 
bill and poor health for life. Another important fact is 
that inspected meat does not always mean government 
inspected meat. It is wise to always ask to see the govern- 
ment blue stamp on the meat which your butcher is selling, 
before you accept it as government inspected. 

Study the different cuts of meat as illustrated on page 
18 until you are familiar with them and know which you 
prefer, then learn, from this book of instruction, how to 
recognize the piece of meat you prefer, when you see it in 
the show case at the market, and you will find it a simple 
matter to get just what you want and you will not only 
get the cut you desire, but will also get a nice piece of meat 
and it will be a pleasure for your butcher to serve you. If, 



by any cliance, your l)utclier should be unvviUing to give you 
what you ask for, do not hesitate to ask for the manager or 
foreman who will no doubt see that your wants are taken 
care of, but if he also should show no appreciation of your 
patronage, then trade with those who will, for in this age 
of competition volume is an essential thing as well as price. 
However, always try to know what you want before enter- 
ing the market and then be pleasant but firm in your request 
for your particular cut or piece of meat. .And never use 
more of the clerk's time than is justly due you, for he has 
others to wait upon who, perhaps, are in just as big a hurry 
as yourself. If, however, you have not fully made up your 
mind, ask for suggestions and no doubt the clerk or butcher 
can name something which will appeal to you, thus saving 
time for you as well as for himself. But do not under any 
consideration accept a piece of meat which you are not 
thoroughly satisfied has been government inspected. You 
owe this to yourself as well as to your family and I assure 
you that I am telling you this for your best interest and not 
])ecause I wish to advertise any individual or company. If 
you could have had the opportunities I have had to witness 
the danger that lurks in uninspected meat you would do 
without meat the rest of your life rather than eat meat you 
knew had not passed the government inspection. It is not 
only a fact that you are perhaps eating meat infected with 
tuberculosis, trichina, cholera, measles, and all kinds of or- 
ganic diseases of the /iver, kidneys, and bowels, if you are 
eating uninspected meat, but that in the Sausage department 
or back room all sorts of unsalable tainted meat scraps 
can be put into the meat. Also, the meat in the refrigerator 
comes into contact with rusty or dirty hooks, galvanized 
pans and sour, wet sawdust. It is from the filthy condition 
of a refrigerator that you may get ptomaine poisoning and 
then wonder where you could have gotten it. Then also, 



in the back room the flies may be permitted to accumulate 
on the meat before it is worked up, thus adding more dis- 
ease to the meat. If you doubt these statements, convince 
yourself. With a small committee of friends some after- 
noon during the summer time, make an unexpected visit to 
your market wdiich handles uninspected meat. Quietly 
glance around the place, unobserved by those in charge, and 
then ask to be taken through the back room and ice box. 
You may judge for yourself. Then, for the sake of compar- 
isort. go into the market under government inspection and 
make a special effort to find filth and dirt and conditions 
which make meat unfit for human food. You will soon de- 
cide from what sort of a market you wish to purchase. The 
man who objects to your inspection of his back room or ice 
box has something which he prefers for you not to see. 
If your butcher is unwilling for you to inspect his shop, are 
you still willing to give him your trade? In other words, 
are you still willing to buy a cat in a bag? The merchant 
who demands that his clerks keep neat and clean and who 
keeps his place of business free from dirt and filth, is not 
afraid to let you inspect his premises from the front door 
to the back. He is not so very different than yourself. 
Would you be willing to invite a stranger into your kitchen 
at any time of day if it were in the same condition of un- 
tidiness in which one could expect to find it on wash day, 
or after "dad" had been batching for about four days while 
you were away? I think not. That's just how the butcher 
feels whose place is in a filthy condition. But if your house 
is neat and clean at all times you would never be embar- 
rassed by an unexpected visitor even tho it may be necessary 
for that visitor to enter your kitchen. It is just that way 
with the butcher who has his market under government 
inspection, for he is a neat housekeeper. Not althogether 
through a matter of choice, but because the government 



has restrictions that must be compHed with or his privilege 
of government inspection will be taken away from him and 
he will be left without the guarantee to the public that his 
goods have Uncle Sam's O. K. as to their fitness for human 
consumption. 



10 



Economy in Buying Meat 

Economy in the management of the home has the most 
important effect upon the size of the l)ank account at the 
end of the month. But there are so many instances where 
the poor mother or wife has sacrificed in numerous ways, 
only to lose what she has saved, because she knows not 
how to buy or what to buy. Many modern conveniences 
could be bought with the money spent in this way. 

From an economical standpoint, meat is the one item 
which must be watched more than any other article used 
in the home, unless it is fuel. If the husband or father has 
been working hard all day he must have good wholesome 
meat for his meals, and with the proper knowledge of how 
to buy and what to buy he may always have a good variety 
at a very low cost. By referring to the weekly menu on 
page 207, you will find a cheap, yet appetizing variety. 

Has it ever occurred to you that the telephone, the 
delivery boy and the bookkeeper must be paid for by you? 
If so, have you ever tried to solve the problem of making 
up for these expenses? Every time you buy under these 
conditions it costs you from twenty to twenty-five per cent 
more on the article you purchase. You may say that the 
merchant will not discount your purchase 25% because you 
pay cash and go after it yourself. If the place you are 
trading with does not do this you will always find one in 
your community that will. The telej^hone, delivery boy and 
bookkeeper are a part of the expense which should be taken 
care of by the cvistomer who does not care for expenses, and 
you should not be compelled to stand for any part of that 

• 11 



expense. If you are trying to saye in order to help the 
bread winner of the family, why allow him to be charged 
with any expense in which you haye no part? This is the 
place where I shall call your attention to the contrast in 
prices between the hind quarter cuts in meat and the fore 
quarter cuts. 



12 



Contrast 

Please keep in mind that the fore quarter is for 
quality, the hind quarter for quality and price. As an 
example of this fact let us find the difiference in price be- 
tween a Sirloin Steak and a Skirt Steak. Sirloin Steak is 
25c to 28c per pound. Skirt Steak is 12^ to 15c per pound. 
The difference between the price of these two steaks is 50%. 
Now, if your total meat bill is $10.00 per month, at an aver- 
age, 50% of this amount would reduce the month's bill to 
$5.00 instead of $10.00. It is possible for you to do this. 
You can also save 50% on your gas bill and still be able to 
have meat oftener and a pleasing variety for each day. 

This is a day and age when we must think and judge 
for ourselves and according to our own circumstances. If 
we do not do this, and have tried to keep pace with the 
person who is receiving twice as large a salary, we shall 
grow old from worry long before our time. And the worst 
of it all is that the future will be no brighter than the past, 
and it will not be so very long before the bread winner will 
be in the old men's class and will have to do what he can 
for a daily existence. Is it pleasant to look forward to this? 
Can we educate our little ones as we should, so that they 
may be able to battle with the problems of life in as able a 
manner as the ones who have had a better education? How 
shall we be able to accumulate a small start for them, or 
put a little aside for a time of need in sickness or misfor- 
tune? I see no better solution of the problem than a proper 
knowledge of how to buy, so that we may avoid paying for 
the privileges enjoyed by the other person and not by our- 

13 



selves. No doubt, you would look at an employer with 
utter contempt should he offer his employee his house rent, 
a few cheap clothes and what he eats, for a salary. Yet, if 
you have saved nothing at the end of the year, you have 
labored for nothing more than a mere living. All of us 
would enjoy luxuries and the best of everything, but I'm 
sure we do not appreciate these things to such an extent 
that we would willingly see our bread winner work for 
nothing more than just a living, with no brighter prospects 
in the future. Of course, we cannot expect to deprive our- 
selves of every pleasure. We must have some recreation, 
wholesome food, and pleasant environment, but with these 
pleasures and necessaries we must make, or at least try to 
make, the dollars go as far as they should, considering our 
income. And when we are in debt then we have no choice 
in the matter if we are honest and want to pay our bills. 
We must then deny ourselves. Why not educate ourselves 
now, instead of making a continual sacrifice? In teaching 
the classes in domestic science the use of practical terms for 
meat, T was astonished to see how few really knew whether 
they actually received what they asked for or not. For 
example: I cut some round steaks from the cross rib and 
arranged them beside some round steaks from the regular 
round, then asked the pupils, some of whom had been keep- 
ing house for fifteen or eighteen years, to tell me what the 
pieces of meat were. Practically all of them were sure they 
were all the regular round steak. How easy it would have 
been for a butcher to have sold them meat worth 15c per 
pound for twenty or even twenty-three cents per pound. 
It was the same with a prime rib and a rolled plate. Just 
13c a pound difference to the customer, a price at which he 
should have received the best. Is there need to ask if there 
is any use in becoming familiar with the proper terms and 
in knowing what the different cuts are when you see them? 

14 



It is quite true that all of us appreciate the good things 
in this line of luxuries. But luxuries and an ever increasing- 
bank account do not go hand in hand, especially where 
there is only a small or average salary. My object in this 
book is to try to teach you, who are paying for the fine tile 
floor, the fancy display cases, the extra line of service, such 
as the solicitor at your back door, and the floor walker to 
direct you to the correct department, and the elaborate office 
and fixtures of the bookkeeper who keeps your monthly 
account. It is only natural that you wish to trade where 
the goods are presented to you in a nice, clean manner, and 
that you desire the general appearance of the place to be 
neat and clean. These things should receive due consider- 
ation, but we must also consider the one who works hard 
all day in order to make it possible for the family to have 
the necessities of life. If there is a little one in the family 
who is old enough to run errands, why not let this little 
one have a part in the economical rvmning of the home? If 
you have selected a reliable trading place you can depend 
upon it that your butcher will treat your child with more 
consideration than if he were serving you, for if he is re- 
liable he will choose or select for the child in your stead. 
Before school the little one can do the morning shopping 
with a note, thereby eliminating your portion of the delivery 
expense, which is quite an item in itself. The solicitor is no 
longer needed at your back door. You will have your bus- 
iness planned ahead so that you will know just what is 
needed for the next meal and for the home in a general way 
so that you will not need the suggestions of the solicitor to 
help you run your kitchen. When 3^ou have an order large 
enough to require the services of a deliveryman, I would 
suggest that you make your order large enough so that it 
will not be necessary for him to come again tomorrow. 
You can send after, or go and get the small things yourself. 

15 



Use the club system for the larger items, arranging with 
your nearest and most congenial neighbors. When you are 
in need of flour, sugar, potatoes, soap, oil, etc.. no doubt 
your neighbor is in need of the same, or at least some of the 
same articles, and your merchant is going to think it worth 
while to give a discount on such a large order coming from 
one neighborhood. He, or his competitors, will make a 
special efifort to hold your trade as well as that of your 
neighbors and in that way you will get the best quality con- 
sidering the grade of stock you use, as well as good service 
and honest weight, etc. Do you realize the power you and 
your neighbors will have in this way, thus saving many 
nickels each day? I wonder if it has ever occurred to you 
that you must pay for the pretty picture and fancy label on 
your ham and bacon. Why is that particular quality your 
favorite? Have you ever tried a substitute in order to find 
out? Do you realize who pays for the large bill board ads, 
for the fancy wrapper that makes your Swift Premium 
Bacon and Swift Premium Hams look so nice, for the little 
attractive and suggestive sign that hangs in the market and 
which made this particular brand your favorite? How 
about the sign you saw in the street which introduced you 
to this particular grade and quality? Does it cost to adver- 
tise in an extravagant manner? Yes, indeed. Then who 
helps to pay for that ad? Be at once undeceived, you are 
to blame, not the merchant. You compel him to do this be- 
cause you will not think and judge and educate yourself. 
One should not judge a book by its cover, the pretty picture 
on the front speaks nothing of the contents of the book, 
neither should it be necessary to attract your attention with 
pretty wrappers and fancy little pictures. Necessarily you 
must have your part in paying for this. A firm or merchant 
is compelled to present goods to you in a clean and attract- 
ive manner in order to sell them, but when you find that 

16 



your particular grade of ham, bacon, lard, etc., is increasing 
very rapidly in price, refer to the source of this advance 
and you will find that the cause is demand. What has 
caused the demand? Publicity. Then let us try goods 
which have not been quite so extravagantly advertised and 
if we are not satisfied with them after having given the new 
brand a fair chance, we can always return to our old favor- 
ite. Let us not make up our minds until we are sure that 
the new will not give as good satisfaction as the old ; it 
might be the means of saving many dollars. The bride start- 
ing into housekeeping naturally uses what mother was in 
the habit of using. Should not the mothers teach their 
daughters how to economize in a practical way so that they 
will not be among those who help to make the garbage man 
take extra trips to the garbage dump each day? 



ONLY 108 OUT OF 1000 IN U. S. ARE SAVING 
MONEY 



Chicago Banker Quotes Statistics to Prove Amer- 
icans Unthrifty 



DETROIT. Reb. 23.— State superintendents of 
Public Instruction, college professors, principals 
and business men join in a discussion of the subject, 
"Thrift," at a meeting tonight of the National 
Council of Education. The council is one of twen- 
ty-one bodies, allied with the National Educational 
Association, which are to hold sessions in De- 
troit this week. 

S. W. Straus, a Chicago banker, who is presi- 
dent of the American Society for Thrift, declared 
that although the L"'^nited States is a prosperous 

17 



PLATE NO. 1 
Front Quarter of Beef 

1. Front shank sonp bone. 

2. First cut cross rib. 

3. Second cut cross rilx 

4. Third cut of cross rib. 

5. Shoulder clod (no round bone in this cut). 

6. Shoulder knuckle soup bone. 

7. Button of neck. 

8. Beef neck. 

9. Chuck (either steak or roast). 

10. Prime rib. 

11. Point of brisket. 

12. The Plate boiling meat, or short ribs of Beef. 

Do not become confused with tlie term Plate as stated 
here. For Plate is the practical term for figure No. 12 in 
this cut. 



18 




Plate No. ] 



nation, "we are not a prosperous people," and 
backed up his assertion that one person out of 
every ten who dies in any of the large cities, is 
buried in a potter's field. "Statistics show that in 
the United States there are only 108 who save 
money out of every 1000 population," he added. 
"This compares with 554 in Switzerland." 

The only way to lay the foundation for the fu- 
ture thrift of the nation is to begin today teaching 
thrift in our schools, he said in conclusion. 

These little items which we observe in the daily papers 
call our attention to the fact that the housewife or manager 
is greatly responsible for the drain upon the family income. 
Then can you, as a practical manager of the most important 
place in the business world today, be indifferent as to how 
and where the funds of the bread winner go? On a salary 
of $15 or $20 per week is it economy to purchase chicken 
at the present prices? Does porterhouse steak at 28c per 
pound offer a means of economy? 

However, for the purpose of instructing you and others 
how to purchase all kinds of meat, I must give detailed 

\planation regarding everything carried by a meat market. 

he occasion might arise when it will be necessary for you, 
as a prospective hostess or as chairman of some committee, 
to know how to select and purchase the more expensive 
articles, and if you have a knowledge of practical terms and 
of what to buy you will be able to save money even on 
such occasions. 



19 



PLATE NO. 2 
Soup Bones 



1. Shoulder knuckle soup bone. 

2. Hind shank soup bone. 

3. Hind knuckle soup bone. 

4. Rump soup bone. 

5. Front shank soup bone. 

6. Rib or plate soup meat. 



20 




Plate No. 2 



Explanation of the Cuts of Meat 

The Fore Quarter 

I will now take up the different cuts of meat, explain 
their waste in bone, fat and sinew, and the reason why peo- 
ple often make a mistake when they think that, by pur- 
chasing meat without bone or fat, they will get a cheaper 
and much better piece of meat. 

Let us start with the front quarter of beef and learn 
to use practical terms or names. 

Plate No. 1 
Front shank soup bone. Average price per lb., 63^c. 

1. Cut of cross rib. Average price per lb., 15c. 

2. Cut of cross rib. Average price per lb., 15c. 

3. Cut of cross rib. Average price per lb., 15c. 

4. Cut in cross rib. No round bone at all in this cut, 
or should clod. 17c per lb. 

5. Shoulder knuckle soup bone. Average price per 
piece, 10c to 15c, or about 5c per lb. Now we have what 
is termed as a chuck (roast or steak). 

6. Chuck steak or the chuck roast. This steak or 
roast, as the case may be, extends back to the 8th rib, which 
then is termed the chuck rib, as it still has the shoulder 
blade until the 6th rib is reached, which is the prime rib. 

7. Button of the neck, average price 3c per lb. 

No doubt, you often wonder why you can never obtain 
a front shank soup bone at your market. It is because the 
])utcher can get more for this piece of meat from the front 

21 



shank by selling' it to a restaurant for stews, hash, meat ]Me, 
etc. The average customer expects as large a sou]) bone 
from the front shank, for 10c, as can be obtained for the 
same price from the hind shank, with only one-half as much 
meat. Inform your butcher that you are willing to pay the 
difference, or about 6J/2C per lb., and see how quickly he will 
be able to find a front shank for you. Allow me to explain 
at this time where you may save considerably when making 
this purchase. Do not buy just a 10c cut for your soup. 
If for a family of 4, order 30c worth. Then make your 
soup. You now have 4^ lbs. of solid meat, besides the 
substance of the bone and marrow. Under the head of 
Recipes you will find eight different ways of using this 
454 lbs. of meat. The price of pot roast for the same pur- 
pose is not less than 65c, thus there will l)e a saving of 50%, 
plus the amount of soup. 

The idea I wish to convey at this place is, that it is not 
economy to purchase just enough meat for one meal if the 
family is large enough to use what may be left from a soup 
bone, pot roast, boiling piece, or stew. For it will take 
neither more time nor fuel to cook enough for two meals in 
the fireless cooker, than it will for one meal, and you will 
be able to obtain a much better piece of meat. 

No doubt you have had an experience somewhat like 
this. You have told your butcher that you would like a 
nice little pot roast, and are greatly disappointed when you 
view the piece which the clerk offers you. "Why," you 
exclaim. "I am not going to buy more than I can use, just 
in order to get a nice piece of meat." I shall endeavor to 
show you the reason why you cannot get a choice piece of 
meat in a small roast. If the butcher shows you a piece of 
meat really worth 20c, selecting it from among larger roasts, 
it appears as though you are not getting more than a hand 
full of meat for your money, and if he shows you a piece 

22 



1 



with bone in it which is larger to all appearances than the 
solid piece, yon say, "Oh, we don't care for the fat, and that 
has too much bone in it. " 

Still you do not feel that you would be getting your 
money's worth in the small, solid piece of meat first shown 
you. Let us be reasonable. We cannot expect to obtain 
the same number of pounds in solid meat as we could in the 
piece with some bone and some fat. Each customer must 
pay for his share of the waste whether it is in the piece 
taken home by him, or in the piece purchased by some 
other customer. The butcher has all this bone and fat to 
buy, so naturally each of us must expect to pay for our 
share. But it is not just that you should pay for more than 
your share. My aim in this book is to help you select and 
to help you judge. I have had all of these problems to con- 
tend with and am now stepping around on your side of the 
counter and shall do my best to give the benefit of my ex- 
perience. The man who has made a success of the butcher 
business is the man who has tried to please his patrons. He 
has studied his customers — what they desire, how they like 
to be served, and the most pleasing and appetizing way in 
which to present his goods. People in this day and age eat 
with their eyes. I mean by this that they will judge by ap- 
pearances rather than through any knowledge of the qual- 
ity of the article. For example : A customer comes into 
the butcher shop to buy a cross rib roast. There are several 
in the case. The first one looked at has too much fat, the 
one next to it, too much bone. From the next piece the 
butcher states he cannot cut to any advantage, either to 
the customer or to himself, the size wanted. Then suddenly 
the customer sees a piece which seems to be just what is 
desired. The clerk is asked to turn it over, and when this 
is done it is seen that the side which had been lying next 
to the pan is a dark grey color. No, you, the customer, do 

23 



not want that piece, it must be old. When, if you only 
knew that by allowing the butcher the time to expose that 
side of the meat to the air for less than three minutes, it, 
too, would become just as pleasing in color as the surface 
of the side which first attracted your attention. But you 
refuse to accept it and finally select a piece taken from an 
animal killed about three days before, and when you have 
taken it home and cooked it you find that you have a tough 
piece of meat. P'or this you blame the butcher, when in 
fact, the butcher did not dare try to select for you, fearing 
you would think he was attempting to sell you some old 
stock, or a piece which was almost ready for dog meat. 
Consequently, he allowed you to judge with your eyes, 
knowing that you lacked knowledge of the quality of meat 
you were purchasing. Study these cuts in this book. Edu- 
cate yourself as to what a chuck roast is. Know what a 
cross rib roast is. Know also what portion of waste you 
have a right to pay for. Compare these tables of wastes 
and shrinkage and you will very soon be able to see at first 
glance whether you are getting your money's worth in 
quality and quantity. The fact that a piece of meat is dark 
on the surface is not an evidence that it is spoiled. The way 
to examine meat to learn whether or not it is fit to eat, is to 
closely inspect the little pockets and corners which are hard 
to trim out with the boning knife. Whenever you find that 
a piece of meat is slimy and sour in places that cannot be 
trimmed out, do not buy it. A very important thing about 
tender meat is the length of time it has been in cold stor- 
age. Another important thing to be remembered is that you 
should never purchase a piece of meat from which the 
spoiled and tainted portions have not been trimmed. In 
the first place you have no right to pay for this waste, and 
in the second place, your health is of too great value to take 
a chance by eating anything that is not free from decay. It 

24 



is criminal for a clerk to sell a piece of meat he knows to be 
in such a shape, for if a child should happen to get it, the 
child's life might be at stake. Of course, an older member 
of the family could leave the table and avoid swallowing 
food of this kind, but it is different in the case of a child. 
Therefore, it is very important to deal with a firm which is 
reliable and which operates under clean and sanitary con- 
tlitions, as well as one which handles government inspected 
meat exclusively. The government inspector will not al- 
low anything to pass his inspection that will endanger your 
health, or which would cause him to lose his position. 

On page 26 you will find a descriptive illustration of 
each cut in the front quarter. You will also learn how it 
may be cooked to best advantage, taking into consideration 
its foods value, and how you may select the piece which will 
prove the most economical for the purpose intended, how to 
judge your share of waste in fat and bone, its color, and the 
length of time required for cooking either by gas, fireless 
or wood range. Please do not overlook recipes referred 
to, for you will find many new and appetizing ways of cook- 
ing meat, and where it will be economy to purchase just a 
little larger piece than it has been your habit to buy. Al- 
ways remember that if you desire quality and quantity com- 
l)ined, get front quarter meat. If it is quality regardless 
of price, select hind quarter meat, such as rump roast. But 
those cuts will be discussed under the head of Hind Quar- 
ter Meat. 

Names of pot roast and boiling pieces from the front 
quarter : 



25 



PLATE NO. 3 

Eight Different Cuts for Pot Roasts from the Front Quarter 

of Beef 

Brisket. 

Chuck roast, (note shape of bone ; resembles the figure 
7. 

Boneless end of chuck roast. 
Bone end of chuck roast. 
Shoulder clod end of cross rib roast. 
Whole cross rib roast of Beef. 
The third cut of the cross rib roast. 

Shoulder clod or fourth cut of cross rib (no round bone 
in this cut). 



26 




(m. 



Plate No. 3 



1. Front shank, 50% meat. 

2. Beef neck. 

3. Beef neck boned. 

4. Cross rib. 

5. Cross rib without round-bone or shoulder clod. 

6. Chuck roast. 

7. Chuck roast without bone. 

8. Chuck rib. 

9. Brisket, 25% in bone; 7% in fat (waste). 

10. Plate boil, waste 33>^%. 

11. Rolled plate or German pot roast. 

12. Short ribs of beef. 

13. Prime ribs, waste 25%. 

14. Rolled prime rib, waste 12%. 

15. Prime rib standing, waste 20%. 

16. Skirt steak, 98%- value. 

We will now take the cuts of the front quarter in ro- 
tation and discuss their uses. 



FRONT SHANK SOUP BONE 

For family of four always get a 30c soup bone. By so 
doing you will have the broth for soup. You will then have 
meat enough left for beef stew, Spanish, Irish stew, Dixie 
hash, stufifed bell peppers, meat pie, pressed beef, or ta- 
males. 

BEEF NECK 

It matters not whether you buy this piece with or with- 
out the bone, for the price will be approximately the same. 
However, the bone adds flavor to the meat if you have cook- 
ing utensils large enough to allow for the difference in size. 
The meat left over from an amount sufficient for a family 

21 



of four may be prepared according to the same recipes in 
which front shank meat is used, with the addition of mince 
meat. The best and most economical way in which to cook 
these kinds of meat is with the use of the fireless cooker, 
this saves fuel, adds flavor to the meat, and there is ab- 
solutely no shrinkage. Four pounds of beef neck with 5c 
worth of suet will make enough meat for the meal and then 
there will be a sufficient amount left over which may be 
used as above suggested, or from which may be made one 
and one-half quarts of mince meat, including the 5c worth of 
suet. 

CROSS RIB ROAST 

This class of meat is to be used only as a pot roast 
and cold meat. It will make an ideal pot roast if your 
butcher is reasonable in dividing thfc waste proportionately. 
You should not be compelled to pay the same price for the 
round bone end of the cross rib, as for the shoulder clod 
end. Neither should you pay the same price for the first cut 
cross rib as that paid by the purchaser for the center cut. 
But bear in mind that the cross rib is a very choice pot 
roast, or it may first be pot roasted until tender, then 
roasted in the oven. This roast as pot roast and spaghetti, 
pot roast with noodles, brazed roast or German sauer roast 
makes a splendid change for a meal. I would not advise 
the purchase of .more than enough for one meal, or for one 
meal and for the purpose of cold sliced meat, and would 
suggest that you take the bone end if you can get it at a dif- 
ference of 2/2C between that and the end without the round 
bone. 

CHUCK OR SHOULDER ROAST 

This roast may always be known by the presence of a 
bone shaped somewhat like the figure 7, and, although it has 
considerably more waste than the cross rib, it makes a very 

28 



nice pot roast when properly cooked. If, however, the meat 
has no fat, it should not be cooked without the addition of 
some cod fat or a small piece of suet. The first cut nearest 
the neck has an oblong- bone in one end as described in 
plate 3, the other end has practically no bone. 

In fairness to yourself and justice to the butcher you 
should not pay more than three cents a pound more for the 
end without the bone than for the one with it, although 
the difference in price will not materially affect the pur- 
chase, the two ends being equivalent to each other in quan- 
tity of meat. The eighth and ninth rib of the chuck are 
equal in quality to the prime rib roast, only you will have 
the shoulder blade or the figure 7 bone in this cut, with a 
difference of five cents or more a pound between it and the 
prime rib, due to the greater demand for the prime rib. 

I would not advise that the chuck be selected as an 
oven roast if you are to have invited guests, as it will not 
carve so well as the rolled prime rib ; but for family use it 
makes a very nice roast and the first cost is considerably 
less. Always try to get these roasts as thick as possible for 
the quantity you select, as the meat retains its flavors much 
better and does not dry out so quickly. 

BRISKET BOIL 

The brisket, particularly the point of the brisket, will 
make a very nice boiling piece for the family which likes 
some fat in its meat. This is really the cheapest boiling 
piece one can buy. If cooked in a fireless cooker it will 
be as tender as the choicest piece of rump roast. It has a 
splendid flavor, as the soft brisket bone jells and adds rich- 
ness to the meat. The broth from the brisket can be made 
into a very rich vegetable, rice, noodle, barley or bean 
soup. Altho this piece has a seemingly large amount of 
bone, you will not be paying for too much waste, for if you 

29 



PLATE NO. 4 
Prime Rib Roast of Beef, German Pot Roast and Plate Boil 

1. Prime rib roast of Beef (rib long). 

2. Prime rib rolled. 

3. Prime rib roast (standing). 

4. Plate boiling meat. 

5. Rolled ])late boiling meat or German pot roast. 

6. Short ribs of Beef (taken from the ends of the prime 

rib long). 



30 



mv 




Plate No. 4 



are trading with a reliable market the price of this piece 
will be from five to eight cents a pound cheaper than chuck 
roast. This is especially true in the summer time, as during 
that season of the year the demand is for fry meat and 
cooked cold meats. 

SHORT RIBS OF BEEF OR PLATE BOIL 

The plate meat starts from the sixth rib from the point 
of the brisket. This is very choice for a boiled meat or for 
short ribs and browned potatoes, and if you are willing to 
pay a difiference of 2c more per pound your butcher will cut 
them the long way of the plate instead of cutting with the 
rib straight, or horizontal!}- with the rib of the plate. L^nless 
you are sure they are aged, never attempt to cook these 
ribs in the oven without first boiling them in the kettle. 
The beef should have been killed at least ten days, other- 
wise, tough meat will be the result. 

The rolled plate, which is the same meat with the bone 
taken out, and rolled, makes one of the very choicest pot 
roasts. It is most frequently called German pot roast, and 
should never cost you more than 3c a pound more than the 
unrolled plate. I have tested this out many times and have 
always found that it costs just 3c a pound to bone the plate. 
Therefore, if you have been given the price of 9c per pound 
for plate you should not pay more than 12c per pound boned 
and rolled. And when buying corned beef always endeavor 
to obtain the plate meat, as the flavor of this piece of meat 
cannot be excelled for corned beef. 

PRIME RIB 

Prime rib of beef is exclusively an oven roast. For 
this purpose it has no equal, although it is, of course, an 
expensive cut. However, if not properly aged this piece 

31 



will be as tough as any of the cheaper cuts of the front 
quarter. 

A prime rib consists of the seventh rib from the chuck 
and extends back to the second rib from the hind quarter. 
It is always customary to leave one rib on the hind quarter. 

The prime rib is put up in three dififerent styles. 

1. With the rib left long, sawed, rolled back and tied. 

2. Standing rib, or Delmonico style. Which is to saw 
the rib ofif to about seven inches in length, then take off the 
chime or bone at the base of the meat by sawing through 
the little groove that runs the length of the back bone, after 
which remove the feather bone and take out the piece of 
muscle, then sew the meat back into place. 

3. Rolled prime rib consists of a prime rib with all the 
bone taken out, rolled tightly and tied with heavy twine. 
There should never be over 2j/4c a pound difference between 
the price of a regular rib sawed and rolled back and of a 
standing rib roast, and not over 5c a pound difference be- 
tween a standing rib roast and a prime rib boned and rolled. 
It costs the butcher just 5c a pound to bone and roll a prime 
rib. If possible get a rolled rib from a roast consisting of 
seven ribs already rolled, for in that way you will avoid a 
rough surface on two ends of your roast. If your butcher 
must stop to roll a one or two-rib roast it is impossible for 
him to roll it in as nice a shape as if you get a roast from a 
rib consisting of six or seven ribs already rolled. For a 
small family it is advisable to select a rolled rib as small in 
diameter as possible, in that way the roast will not lose 
so much of the juice and will have a much better flavor. 

For convenience in carving and for flavor, I would sug- 
gest a standing rib for the dinner at which guests will be 
present. The cost of the roast boned or with the long rib 
in, will be approximately the same, for the butcher will 
figure accordingly. It is only a question as to how it. is to 

• Z2 



be used. You must expect to pay for your share of bone 
even tho it is the other customer who carries it home. 

The two most important things to remember are : be 
sure the meat is well aged, and always have the oven very 
hot when the roast is put in. A quick fire or strong heat 
will prevent the cooking out of the juice and the meat will 
not draw up and become tough and pulled out of shape. 

Always serve standing beef roast au jus, or with the 
blood juice, by adding a little water to the pan just before 
you take it out of the oven. A table for time required to 
cook, and quantity per person, for all roasts, will be found 
on page 134. 

The skirt steak is included under head of fore quarter 
meat, but more justice can be done to this class of meat 
under the head of Steaks, found on page 38. 

The short rib steak is a steak from a standing rib roast. 
This also will be taken up under the head of Steaks. 



THE HIND QUARTER 

We will now take up the different cuts of the hind 
quarter, that we may learn their names and proportion of 
shrinkage. 

When the hind quarter is properly broken it is divided 
into two parts, namely the loin and (round with the rump 
on.) The quarter is broken or cut diagonally from the back 
of the rump to the lobe of the round, just cutting the side 
of the pin bone, or knuckle bone found in the rump. Then 
the rump is taken from the round at a distance of at least 
two or three inches from the joint bone, so that neither you 
nor the other customer will get a large bone in the first 
cut of the round steak. That bone belongs on the rump 
soup bone at six or six and one-half cents per pound, and 

33 



PLATE NO. 5 
Five Different Cuts of Steak from the Hind Quarter of Beef 

1. The first cut of the sirloin steak. 
A. The fourth cut of the sirloin steak. 

2. Pin bone sirloin or the tenderloin steak. 

3. The porterhouse steak. { Note the waste suet, and tlie 

small under cut or tenderloin.) 
5. The fillet of Beef or Beef tenderloin. 



34 




Plate No. 5 



not on the round steak at twenty to twenty-five cents per 
pound. 

Again I advise that you study these cuts so that you 
will know them when you see them, and then pay for your 
share of waste accordingly. And always keep in mind that 
when you ask for hind quarter meat it is quality you are 
paying for instead of quantity. 

Plate No. 5 

1. Sirloin Steak. Notice the absence of waste on the 
first three cuts. 

2. Tenderloin Steak. Notice pin bone or egg-shaped 
bone. At 25c per lb., cut this out and you still have a cheap 
porterhouse steak. 

3. Porterhouse Steak. Number 3 is the porterhouse 
steak and you pay the price for this steak according to de- 
mand. But this is the most wasteful steak in the beef on 
account of the fact that there is a greater proportion of the 
flank or tail left on, which in its proper place belongs on 
the flank, at about 12^c to 15c per lb. Then why pay 28c 
to 35c per pound for it on a porterhouse steak? In addi- 
tion to this waste there is the kidney suet worth 10c per 
pound when purchased for puddings, etc. When you serve 
this steak on your table it costs you on an average, for the 
actual amount of meat you get, about 43c to 47c per pound, 
yet the only thing in which this steak is superior to a ten- 
derloin or sirloin steak is the little undercut or tenderloin. 
Whereas you can buy the fillet, which is all clear and solid 
meat, for about 35c to 40c per pound, with absolutely no 
waste. Do not purchase a porterhouse with the idea that 
you must get porterhouse in order to have quality. No con- 
servative housewife will deliberately throw her husband's 
money in the garbage can. Let the person receiving a sal- 

35 



PLATE NO. 6 
Six Different Cuts of Steak 

6. Flank steak. 

7. Butcher's steak. 

9. Sirloin tips, or roast. 

A. Skirt steak. 

B. Shoulder steak. 

C. Sirloin tips cut for steak or frying'. 



36 




Plate No. 6 



ary of $450 a month buy the porterhouse ; he can afford it. 
And do not blame your butcher, for he is compelled to 
charge you for this waste as he also must pay for it, and 
demand regulates the price of all things in the commercial 
world. Do not have your share in making porterhouse 35c 
to 40c per pound, for you can buy stew meat at 12}/? to 15c 
per pound and suet at 10c per pound. 

4. The Short Porterhouse or T-Bone, as a great many 
use the term, is not quite so wasteful as the porterhouse, 
but too much so for the person on a moderate salary when 
other cuts of steak will be equally as good in quality and 
much less in price. 

All meat must be aged before you can expect to ha\e 
tender meat. Aged, in a butcher's sense, is the length of 
time it has been killed. Do not object to your meat if you 
see your butcher trimming off some of the mouldy, or 
apparently spoiled outside edges. Only object when you 
have to pay for that weighed in on you, or that which is on 
your meat when you have it ready for the oven or pan. 

This same steak cut thick and skewered is also called 
a Delmonico steak. Also a club steak. 

5. Fillet of beef. 

The fillet is the tenderloin taken out of the loins of a 
cow or bull, as this class of loins are not in demand in the 
shops. It is then rolled in what is termed the call fat, or 
stomach fat, and at 40c per pound is much cheaper than 
the porterhuose steak, and may be served in many dift'erent 
dainty and appetizing ways. 

6. Flank Steak. 

This is a very economical steak. It is found in the flank 
of the hind quarter and when trimmed out and scored or 
fixed with a pocket makes a delicious steak either stuffed 

37 



and baked, or broiled. It may be used for any purpose 
where a thick round steak is required, and avoids the pur- 
chase of a great thick round steak for a small family. 

7. Butcher's Steak. 

Called so from the fact that it and the skirt steak are 
the only pieces of meat which may be cut oE in the slaughter 
house without cutting into any part of the side of beef or 
the quarter of beef and defacing the shape of the meat while 
it is warm or freshly killed. This is a long, narrow piece 
of meat which is always found in the open hind quarter 
and hangs just below the kidney. It is very similar in ap- 
pearance to the shape and size of the fillet or beef tender- 
loin, and has a sinew running through the center, length- 
wise. It is a very economical piece for stew, mince meat, 
hash, or to grind for your own hamburger steak. 

8. Round Steak. 

This steak really needs no introduction as most every 
housewife thinks that she is economizing when she buys a 
steak of this kind, which, with proper knowdedge of the cut 
purchased and the price per pound, if closely observed, 
might be true. But owing to the fact that there is more 
demand for this than for any other steak, and because you 
think that you are not paying for any bone, you may be mis- 
led. Let us see for what purpose you are going to use it. 

Let us say, to make hamburger steak, or for stew, be- 
cause round steak is always lean, and we don't like the fatty 
meat for this purpose. Or some one tells you to get it to 
make broth for the baby. Another one says she gets it to 
make a meat pie. First we will find out if there is any 
reason for paying from five to nine cents per pound more 
for this meat to be used in making hamburger steak. 

Do you always get the center cut ? If you do, you must 
expect to pay for part of the waste in the other customer's 

38 



cheaper round steak because you are getting all the qual- 
ity there is in a round steak. It all costs the butcher the 
same per pound, but he does not expect the customer who 
gets the steak with waste and the last cut down near the 
point, to pay as much as you, if you have nothing but the 
best cut with no waste. Therefore, you pay about 25c per 
pound for your hamburger steak by the time you have it 
all ready to put into the pan. Why not get a nice little lean 
piece of beef neck, or a butcher's steak, or a piece of point 
which is sometimes called the heel of the round, and thereby 
save from 5c to 8c per pound, while the quality is equally 
as good for this purpose? And there will not be the surplus 
ring of fat that goes all the way around the round steak. 

The same explanation applies to the other articles sug- 
gested, such as beef stew. If you will not have the plate for 
this purpose, or the brisket, and must have lean beef stew, 
why not use the front shank meat and put it in the fireless 
cooker? Your stew will have twice the flavor and will be 
20% cheaper. The beef neck will answer every purpose for 
which you may want the round steak, except when wanted 
to fry or roll with a filling. For a steak to fry the round 
is a very cheap steak if the quality and the cut are all right. 
Rut if there is a large demand for round steak the butcher 
must necessarily raise the price accordingly, then we must 
either resolve to get just a little better in quality and use 
the loin steak, or else learn to cook the shoulder steak as it 
should be cooked. This is the principle of my book, to teach 
you that when demand is causing your choice of any partic- 
ular cut in meat to advance in price beyond its value, then 
substitute. You will have no trouble in always selecting 
good and yet choice meat if you will study these cuts so 
that you can recognize them when' you see them in the show 
case at the market, and at a great saving in your table 
expense. 

39 



PLATE NO. 7 

1. Rump roast. 

2. Round with the rump cut off. 

X. This where the sirloin tips are separated from the loin. 
V. This is the last cut of the rump roast. 



40 




^^ 




Plate No. 7 



9. Sirloin Tips. 

These are simply the pieces cut off to straighten up a 
loin or are cut from the side of the round that the loin has 
been taken from, so do not think if you see your butcher 
cutting sirloin tips from the lobe or the side of the round 
nearest the little round bone that he is not giving you the 
sirloin tips. Or in other words, the tips are the tail or ends 
of the sirloin steak. These cuts are usually called for by 
some person wishing a thick steak to broil or for what is 
termed a Swiss steak. 

10. Point or Heel. 

The point, or heel, or Pike's Peak, as it is sometimes 
called, is the solid piece of meat left after the round steak 
has been cut down as far as the joint and sinew will permit 
and still pass as a steak. This, as a roast for the oven, I 
cannot recommend unless first pot roasted in your fireless 
until well done, then browned down in the oven. But even 
then it will have a tendency to be dry and tasteless as an 
oven roast. But for a pot roast or for any purpose requiring 
all solid meat, it is very good, considering that you do not 
have to pay over 25^c more per pound for it than you do for 
the chuck roast. Otherwise, the chuck roast is the cheapest. 
Note under head of recipes for sauer roast. This is an 
excellent piece for that purpose. 

11. Hind Shank Soup Bone. 

Any cut in the hind shank soup bone is good for soup, 
and the shank meat, while not as much in proportion as the 
front shank, is always worth 5c per pound, and for soup 
exclusively, the knuckle joint is always the best. 

12. Ox Tails. 

The Ox tails are also a very cheap, yet economical soup 
stock, and will also make a splendid stew ; they are also nice 
brazed with rice Spanish. 

41 



PLATE NO. 8 

1. Beef kidney in the suet as it is taken from the hind 

quarter. 

2. The kidney suet. 

3. Flank boil or meat for Beef stew or tamales. 

4. Flank steak in the rough (note in this cut the soft fat 

or the practical term is Cod fat). 

5. The point or the heel of the round (also called Pikes 

Peak). 



42 




Plate No. 8 



13. Beef Kidneys. 

These are always a very cheap form of meat, and are 
used in very few ways other than kidney saute and kidney 
stew. They are also the very cheapest meat you can buy 
for animal food, such as for the dog, cat, or any pet animal 
requiring meat food. 

14. Kidney Suet. 

The kidney suet is the kidney fat surrounding the kid- 
ney, and can always be recognized because of its flakey and 
firm, or solid appearance. By the use of one-third kidney 
suet added to pure lard you can have a much better cooking 
grease or shortening for pie crust and cakes requiring lard, 
and will save exactly one-half on your lard or cooking 
grease. Under the head of recipes will be found a formula 
for making the cooking grease for all purposes go much 
further and of the very best flavor for use in all pastry as 
well as meats, potatoes, etc. 

The cod fat is the soft fat or flank fat, and is never 
to be used for puddings or anything of that nature such as 
mince meat, etc., for it will never become firm and solid as 
the kidney suet. 

Under head of recipes for the sick room will be found 
a recipe for making a nourishing broth, or gruel for infants 
or typhoid fever patients, from what is termed the ham 
string of the hind shank. It is the muscle that joins the last 
joint on the round or shank of the round to what is called 
the point. It is always left on the joint cut off the hind 
quarter shank soup bone, or in other words, is the sinew 
that holds the round on the hook in the refrigerator. This 
boiled down properly makes a jell, and may be set away in 
the ice box in a little sterilized jar or in some receptacle 
where it will keep clean and free from the odors and taste 
of other things in the box. Then as the patient needs nour- 

43 



ishinent it may be used l)y dissolving- a teas|)oonful in a cup 
of boiling water. This saves much preparing each time 
nourishment' is given, as well as being all strength and nu- 
triment, and will keep for several days at a time. 

15. The Rump. 

The last cut of rump, selling at 17yic per pound, will 
cost you 25c per pound for actual solid meat, or 4 pounds 
at \7y2C per pound equals 70c, and 2 pounds, 13 ounces solid 
meat at 25c per pound equals 70c. Rather expensive pot 
roast. That is the price demand imposes upon you, why 
have a part in it? 

If you will note the difference in the waste from the 
first cut and the last cut rump roast you will find that it 
is just l^c per pound in your favor if you select the last 
cut of the rump, but you are forced to pay the butcher 2j/2C 
to 5c per pound more for the first cut than for the last cut 
of the rump. "Why," you ask. Because everyone else 
wants the first cut also, yet there is an actual waste of only 
l>^c per pound difference and you pay lyic to 5c per pound 
more, even tho the last cut of the rump has the best flavor 
and carves to much better advantage. 

Special note : Never start any pot roast in cold water. 
Always wash your meat with a damp cloth if it is necessary 
to wash it at all. 



SHRINKAGE IN COOKING FIRST AND LAST CUT 
RUMP ROAST 

A four-pound first cut rump roast cooked in an alumi- 
num fireless cooker for one hour and fifty minutes, weighed 
after cooking, 2 lbs. 4 oz., or al>out 45% shinkage. 

A four-pound last cut of the rump cooked in an iron 
kettle for two hours, weighed after cooking, 2 lbs. 8 oz. 

44 



Does this not prove there is economy in the use of the 
last cut of rump? Try it for yourself, and after you are 
convinced, ask yourself if it is always to your interest to 
insist upon what the other person buys and pays more for, 
with no better quality than you can purchase in a cheaper 
cut. Use judgment — that is all. 

When purchasing an expensive piece of meat why not 
get the best. It is just as absurd for you to go to your 
market late on Saturday night and ask for a rump roast as 
it is for you to go to a theater after all the good seats have 
been taken and expect to get the best seat in the house. 
And my candid advice is that it would be well for you to try 
the fore quarter cuts, using judgment, and with the assist- 
ance of the fireless cooker in all cuts of pot roast, before you 
come to the conclusion that you can use no other piece for 
pot roast than the rump. The rump is hind quarter meat 
and therefore demands the higher price of hind quarter 
meat. It is good tasting, and as a usual thing it is tender if 
properly aged, but not enough so to warrant the extreme 
difference in price caused by demand, due to imagination. 
Therefore, I cannot and do not recommend it as an econom- 
ical cut except when you can buy it at 15c per pound and 
less. That, of course, means as we cut rump roasts in Cali- 
fornia, New Mexico and Arizona. 

A first and second cut of rump roast weighing four 
pounds each, will lose 1 lb., 1 oz. in suet and bone. 

51% shrinkage in cooking in open kettle on top of stove. 

36% shrinkage in cooking in Fireless Cooker. 

Net weight when ready for the table, 1 lb. 15 oz. 

Have you saved anything? No, you have not. 

The last cut rump weighing 4 lbs., at say, from 2^c to 
5c per pound less will lose, or shrink to the amount of waste 
— suet, 2y2 oz. ; large bone, 1 lb. 3 oz. 

40% shrinkage in cooking in open kettle on top of stove 

45 



30% shrinkage in cooking in Fireless Cooker. 

Note the difference of shrinkage in meat cooked ii. 
open kettle and that which is cooked in the Fireless Cooker, 
besides the amount of gas saved when cooked in the latter 

On Plate 7 will be seen cuts of the rump and round. 
The rump roast is very much in demand, but only because 
of the fact that most people have not given the time and 
study necessary to the good cooking of the cross rib, chuck 
and neck cuts of theBeef. It is quite true that the rump 
makes a splendid roast if from fat Beef and sufficiently 
aged. However, the first and second cuts, so far as quality 
is concerned, are not worth a difference of 5c per pound, 
and I say positively that the first cut does not carve nearly 
so nicely as the last cut. The first cut has a surplus of fat 
if it is a good rump roast. You must expect to take your 
share of this fat, which in a four pound roast will be 1 lb. 1 
oz., or about that amount on an average — 4 lbs. (a) YJYzC 
per pound^^/Oc. Deducting 1 lb. 1 oz. suet, which is worth 
say 10c, your roast will have cost you ZSyic per pound. 
Then, where is there any economy in buying the rump 
roast so long as demand keeps it beyond its actual value? 

The last cut at 2)'^c to 5c per pound less in first cost, 
considering the big half round or three-cornered bone as it 
is sometimes called, is much the cheaper. For, altho you 
have the large bone weighing 1 lb. 3 oz.. and some surplus 
waste fat, you still have the quality, and your roast will 
have a much better flavor because the bone in this cut jells 
and adds flavor to the meat. If you will insist upon a rump 
roast, do not wait until Saturday night to get it, for in nine 
cases out of ten you will be disappointed, because so many 
housewives think there is no other cut for pot roast. If 
you decide on rump roast for Sunday dinner, place your 
order early Saturday morning, or better still, order Friday 
evening to be delivered Saturday morning, for the butcher 

46 



must, in turn, fill every order with what he has. Conse- 
quently, some one must take a piece that is not the most 
choice. That person might be you. And if you insist upon 
a first cut of rump roast, note these figures and remember 
that they are taken from the rump with the minimum waste. 

A four-pound rump roast at I7y2c per pound will cost 
you 70c. 

After the bone and fat have been removed before cook- 
ing, you will have 2 lbs. 15 oz. actual solid meat. Deducting 

1 lb. 1 oz. waste bone and fat, your actual solid meat will 
have cost you the difiference between 70c and 2 lbs. 15 oz., 
which is 23i/2cx2 lbs. 15 oz.=70c, or 23>4c per pound for 
the actual amount of meat you have to cook. This is the 
first cost of your rump roast. Does this sound like economy 
or judgment? 

I have tested this many times, and, as I have mentioned 
before, this is not a piece from a rump with a great surplus 
of waste, for the per cent, would be much greater, to your 
loss, in a rump from an extremely fat beef. 

The cost price of a rump roast at 17^c for the first and 
second cut rump is only an average price. But in many 
places where the demand is greater for this cut, it sells for 
20c per pound. In that case you will have paid 28c per 
pound for the actual meat. 4 lbs. @ 20c per pound=80c — 1 
lb. 1 oz. waste amounting to 21c, which leaves a balance of 

2 lbs. 13 oz. solid meat. First cost to you is 28c x2 lbs. 13 
oz.=80c. 

Plate No. 7, Fig.V 

Last cut of rump. 

4 lbs. @ 15c per pound=60c. 

Deducting a waste of 1 lb. 3 oz. for this cut of the rump, 
there will still be left 2 lbs. 13 oz. solid meat. At 15c per 
pound the waste in bone and fat will cost 18c, this being 

47 



the cost of 1 ih. 3 oz. waste. Deducting 18c from the first 
cost, or 60c, leaves a balance of 42c. Therefore, to arrive 
at the price or cost of the actual amount of solid meat, after 
deducting bone and fat, you must multiply -2 lbs. 13 oz. hy 
42c, which equals 60c. 

PORK 

The next in the meat line to be discussed are the differ- 
ent cuts of Pork. 

This meat, above all other meats, shoidd be government 
inspected. 

As 1 have tried to make clear before, I am writing this 
book absolutely independent of any company, or individual, 
and I am telling you this for the benefit of your health and 
that of your family. By all means demand government 
inspected pork even tho you fail to insist upon government 
inspection as to the other meats. Without government in- 
spection how will you be able to know that this Pork was 
not fed upon garbage, or was not infested with cholera, 
tuberculosis, or thrichina. If 1 were to go into detail re- 
garding the possible dangers in eating uninspected Pork, 
it would take up many pages, yet it will cost you no more to 
purchase Pork bearing Uncle Sam's little blue stamp guar- 
antee, and by that stamp you will positively know that your 
meat is pure, clean and fit for food. 

What is nicer than a juicy Pork roast for a Sunday 
dinner, unless it" be poultry of some nature? 

With a little study one may learn the different cuts 
of Pork as well as the most economical. 

First, the Pork is in the whole or half carcass, with 
the back fat, or rind, as you may call it. This rind is taken 
ofif and the Pork is ready for the block. 

The dififerent cuts consist of the following: 

48 



Plate No. 9 

1. Head. 

This part of the Pork may be used in many ways to 
take the place of the more expensive cuts, the cost being 
on an average of about 8c to 12c cheaper per pound. At 
either price it is not expensive, because of the fact that 
much of the meat and fat can be used in souse. Pork sau- 
sage, and for seasoning vegetables, and still there will be a 
large quantity of lard left after you have had the use of the 
meat. 

2. Front Foot. 

The front foot is not the hock. The hock is the second 
joint above the foot. This is always a very cheap cut, as 
there is very little actual meat on the front foot. This cut 
is used for pickled pig's feet, which are very nice for cold 
lunch. It can be used for the jell of pressed cold meat, or 
when boiled with a veal shank, boned, minced and then 
pressed, will make boneless pickled pig's feet. The average 
price is 5c for each front foot. 

3. Pork Shoulder. 

This cut is in a sense greatly neglected through igno- 
rance. Many think that in buying the shoulder they are 
paying for too much bone, whereas, if you are trading at a 
reliable place they cannot and will not, for the sake of your 
future business, sell you a cut that is all bone. The shoulder 
for roast or for Pork steak can be bought at an average 
cost of 5c to 8c per pound cheaper than the loin or rib. 
So far as quality is concerned it is better for a roast than 
the rib, as there is not so much waste in the shoulder. The 
shoulder pork steak is almost always lean and usually on 
display in the show cases, instead of the rib and loin cuts, 
for the simple reason that if your butcher should put the 
rib and loin cuts on display, nine out of every ten people 

49 



PLATE NO. 9 
Number One Side of Untrimmed Pork 

A. Pig head. 

2. Front pig foot. 

3. Pig hock. 

4. Shoulder of untrimmed Pork. 
?. .\rm cut of untrimmed Pork. 

6. Rib Pork chops or roast. 

7. Loin Pork roast or chops. 

8. Leg of Pork for roast or steak. (Not ham ). The ham is 

the leg of Pork cured and smoked. 

9. The fresh side Pork (not fresh bacon). Salted in dry 

salt, dry salt Pork. Cured in brine, pickled Pork. 
Smoked, it is then bacon. 
10. The hind pig foot. 



50 




^"diiMM-^^.il'". 



Plate No. 



would select them in preference to the shoulder, and the 
shoulders would accumulate to his loss, and you or the 
other party would be compelled to pay your share of this 
loss by having it added to the price of the loin or rib chops. 
There are many ways in which to cook the shoulder 
Pork steak so that they will be tender, sweet and full of 
good wholesome meat. They can be breaded as one would 
bread a veal cutlet, then fried down brown and served with 
a cream gravy. Or they may be served baked with tomato 
sauce. 

4. Side Pork or Belly. 

This, when smoked, is called bacon, when dry salted, 
salt Pork, and when cured in brine it is pickled Pork. 

In the form of fresh side Pork it is very nice sliced and 
Iried as bacon. When salted or pickled it is a splendid sub- 
stitute for bacon and is much cheaper than the smoked 
bacon. 

The side Pork is also the proper piece for seasoning 
purposes for vegetables, etc. 

5. Spare Ribs. 

The spare ribs are the ribs cut from the top surtace 
of the side Pork, and in this age of high prices very little 
meat is left on them, for, from the butcher's view of per- 
centage, the customer is not willing to pay loin Pork chop 
prices for spare ribs. Therefore, the butcher is compelled 
to leave as much meat as possible on the side Pork for 
bacon, salted or pickled Pork, as in this way it will bring 
the price neither you nor the other customer are willing to 
pay for spare ribs. But as a change in meat, they are cheap 
at \2y2c to 15c per pound and can be used for seasoning 
sauerkraut, or for spare ribs and baked sweet potatoes, or 
spare ribs and dressing. 

51 



6. Rib Pork Chops. 

These are very expensive, tho sweet and tender. They 
have much waste in bone and fat and are not for the man 
Hving on a small wage. However, if there are guests and 
you wish something which can be served daintily and 
neatly, breaded rib Pork chops are very good for this pur- 
pose, altho they are not worth the difference in price be- 
tween them and the shoulder Pork steak. 

7. Loin Pork Chops and Roast. 

The loin Pork chops are very choice because of the fact 
that they have the tenderloin or under cut as has the porter- 
house steak in the P)eef. But why pay 20% more for that 
small piece of tender loin, especially when there is such a 
small portion of it in the loin Pork chops? Of course, it 
you do not care for price or expense you can very readily 
pay 20% more for imagination. When the demand for 
shoulder is as great as that for the loin you will be able to 
take your choice of the loin rib or shoulder for the same 
price. Note under the head of recipes the different ways of 
cooking and serving all cuts of Pork chops, and after you 
have tried the suggestion for shoulder Pork chops you Vv'ill 
be able to judge whether or not you care to pay the differ- 
ence for loin or rib chops, for frying. 



JUDGMENT IN SELECTION 

Loin, as a roast, makes a very nice piece, as it is 
tender, juicy and sweet, but a shoulder roast oflf the arm 
cut, or with the shoulder blade, when boned and stuffed 
with dressing, makes equally as nice a roast, and has as 
much, if not more flavor than the loin. You pay too 
much for surplus fat on the loin and rib roast of Pork to 
properly offset the difference between the loin and the 

52 



shoulder. If, however, you insist upon the loin, purchase 
the Pork tender loin at 40c per pound in preference to the 
loin chops at 25c per pound. The average price of lard is 
15c per pound, then w^hy pay 25c for it on your pork chops? 
Under the head of frying grease, lard and shortening, take 
particular notice of how you may have an excellent short- 
ening for pie dough, cakes, biscuits, etc. But here is an ad- 
ditional suggestion for economy. Suppose that lard is re- 
tailing for 15c to I7y2c per pound. Do you not know of 
five or ten other ladies who also wish to help their husbands 
save? If so, I would suggest that together you buy a fifty 
pound can of lard, each lady paying her share. With the 
retail price at 15c per pound, you will be able to purchase 
the very best pure lard at ll^^c to 12c per pound, if taken 
in fifty-pound cans. Have the fifty-pound can sent to one 
house, set a time when all the ladies can meet at this house, 
where, with the aid of a little pair of scales, each lady can 
weigh out her portion in her own bucket and each of you 
will have five or ten pounds of pure lard, at a saving of from 
25c to 50c on the same quantity, if purchased at the retail 
price. Next, buy 15c worth of suet, render it out and add 
to the lard and thoroughly mix. If you had 5 pounds of 
lard before the suet was added you will now have 6}i 
pounds, which will be much better for all cooking purposes 
and which has cost you only lO^c per pound. 

This same principle can also be applied to many other 
things. It would be a good idea to form an economy club. 
A few neighbors could get together and form such a club 
without any inconvenience to any one in particular, and 
with a saving to each of from 20 to 25 per cent., which, at 
the end of the month, would purchase many a needed arti- 
cle. By the use of the fireless cooker you wdll be able to 
save on the gas bill, and by closely following the instruc- 
tions of how to buy and what to buy in the meat line, you 

53 



will be able to save from 2)Zyi*'/^• to 357c. on your meat bill, 
which in turn will cut down your t^rocery bill, and in addi- 
tion, you will have better quality and more of a varietv on 
the table at all times. 

In this book you will find a thirty-day menu for the 
summer months and one for the winter months. Test these 
out your way, then try my suggestions. You will then be 
able to judge whether or not you are profiting by a knowl- 
edge of what you are buying and how to buy it. Do not be 
deceived by large window display ads. If there is a good 
substantial reason for a sacrifice sale on any particular line 
of goods, use your brain, reason for yourself. Is this a bar- 
gain, or is it bait for something else? If it is a real bargain, 
take advantage of it to the extent of what you really need, 
not more than you need, for then it is not economy even 
if it is cheap. I will say again, beware of large window 
price displays and card-board signs. Satisfy yourself that 
there is not bait behind them, for standard goods have a 
commercial value and cannot be sold under cost value plus 
operating expense. Therefore, when you are buying meat, 
canned goods, cereals, dry goods, or whatever it may be, 
reason with yourself first as to what the purpose of the 
sale may be, then decide upon the quantity needed. 

Allow me to mention again that when buying meat it 
is not always economy to purchase just enough for one meal 
if by buying 10c or 20c more there would be enough for 
another appetizing meal. 

Plate No. 9 
SEPARATE CUTS OF PORK 

1. Whole side of untrimmed Pork, as it should be cut. 

2. Front foot. 

3. Pig hock, or second joint. 

54 



4. Shoulder of Pork, untrimmed. 

5. Arm cut. 

6. Rib for either chops or roast. 

7. Loin cut. 

8. Leg of Pork. Do not call this the ham. for un- 
smoked it is leg of Pork, not ham. 

9. Side Pork, fresh. Dry salt Pork ; in brine, pickled 
Pork ; or smoked, it is bacon. 

Note that the spare ribs are cut from the inside surface 
of the side Pork. The butcher does not leave much meat 
on the spare ribs, as he can sell it in bacon for 25c per 
pound. 

Plate No. 10 

Pork sausage is made from the trimmings of the bellies, 
side Pork, cheeks, head and shoulders. Link sausage is 
exactly the same as bulk sausage, with the exception that 
the link sausage is stufifed in either hog or sheep casings ; 
l)ut the seasoning is exactly the same. It consists of salt, 
pepper and sage. Always note if your butcher labels his 
sausage pure pork sausage. If he does not, under the pure 
food act he has no right to sell you mixed sausage for pure 
sausage. You should not pay the same price for sausage 
which is part beef and part pork as you pay for pure sau- 
sage. The privilege is yours of buying part pure Pork 
sausage and part hamburger steak, which you can mix 
for yourself at a much less cost, if you care to have more 
lean in your sausage. Also, if you wish to add much to the 
flavor of pure Pork sausage, mix with it a small amount of 
bread crumbs just before putting into the pan. Dry bread 
crumbs are always useful for breading chops, etc., and are 
much cheaper than sausage. They add considerably to the 
quantity as well as to the flavor. To 1 lb. of Pork sausage 
add one large handful of dry bread crumbs. Mix well and 

55 



PLATE NO 10. 

Bulk and Link Pork Sausage, Shoulder, Loin and Rib Pork 

Chops 

1. Bulk Pork sausage. 

2. Link Pork sausage. 

3. Shoulder Pork chops. 

4. Rib Pork chops. 

5. Loin Pork chops. 



56 




Plate No. 10 



fry in a hot pan with just enough grease to start without 
sticking to the pan. 

Hog brains and hog Uver are quite frequently called 
for, as are also hog tongues. I would suggest, however, 
that you confine your preference to calves' brains, tongues 
and livers, or those of Beef or Lamb, rather than those of 
the Pork. From a butcher's view point these portions of 
Pork should very, very seldom be eaten. The hog under 
the very best conditions is a dirty animal. The liver of 
the Pork is next only to the kidneys in the work which it 
has to perform for the animal. These organs take care of 
the refuse and filth of the body and when one considers the 
diet of Pork one hardly feels that the tongues, kidneys and 
liver of Pork are fit for human consumption. 

Under the head of Recipes will be found many econom- 
ical and dainty ways in which to use lard cracklings, pig's 
ieet, head of Pork, spare ribs, salt Pork, fresh side Pork, 
smoked picnic hams, etc. Also, by referring to the daily 
menu you will be able to decide just what you wish, then 
do not substitute unless you find that such articles as you 
have selected are hard to keep in stock. If you have planned 
spare ribs and dressing for tomorrow's dinner it might be 
well to telephone your order, or send it in to your market, 
the day before, asking them to reserve them for you. Brains, 
sweetbreads, Lamb hearts, Calves' liver, fillet of Beef, spare 
ribs and certain kinds of Fish are not always to be had on 
an instant's notice, no matter how large your trading place 
may be, so to make sure of any particular cut, order in 
advance, but please keep in mind that Beef, Veal, mutton, 
Lamb, Poultry, Rabbits, and Game, are all the better for 
age (time killed) Init Pork, insh, Oysters, brains, sweet- 
breads, Pork sausage, etc., should be absolutely fresh. 

As I have suggested before, it would be well for you, 
together with a small committee of friends, to visit your 

57 



PLATE NO. 11 
Each Separate Cut of the Trimmed Pork 

1. Pig hock or second joint of the front leg. 

2. Hind leg of Pork for Pork steak or Pork roast. 

3. Front pig foot or first joint of the front leg. 

4. Hind pig foot. 

5. Loin of Pork cut at the pin hinc. 

6. Ril) Pork roast or Pork roast. 

7. Large loin Pork chops or roast. 

8. Trimmed shoulder of Pork. (In number 8 the lean end 

is equal to the leg or number 2 for either roast or 
steak.) 

9. Spare ribs. 

10. Fresh side Pork (not fresh bacon). 



58 



market. You might, by close observation of his hamburger 
mill, or his ice box, be able to account for the last sickness 
of some member of your family. Notice the hooks, are they 
rusty and dirty? Is the corned Beef vat or barrel mouldy? 
Does the refrigerator have a damp, musty smell? Are 
there clean, enamel pans on which to keep the meat? While 
you are in the back room see what he has trimmed off for 
his hamburger and sausage. Then decide whether or not 
you have been getting cheap meat. If the butcher refuses 
to allow you to go through his establishment, there is some- 
thing very wrong, for otherwise, he would be glad to have 
you do so, because it advertises his business. Know what 
to ask for, recognize it when you see it, and then step around 
in front of the scales while the meat is being weighed. 
That is your privilege. The government spends thousands 
of dollars each year upon a weight inspector, for your ben- 
efit. See that you get all that you are paying for ; the 
scales are there for your protection. When all housewives 
insist upon this method of doing business, the dollars will 
go much further. The honorable, upright sort of a man 
will appreciate your business and will be glad to please you, 
and in turn, he has a right to your trade. W^hile his com- 
petitor, if he happens to be one who trys to make you thn 
you are receiving big bargains and is at the same time 
literally robbing you, will be the one who will suddenly go 
out of business. Every merchant, no matter what line he is 
in, has a perfect right to a profit. His money is invested 
for that purpose, but you have no right to pay for that which 
you do not receive, neither should you pay an exorbitant 
price for any goods you may buy. It is only with your help 
and management in the proper distribution of your bread 
winner's wages that you can ever expect to accumulate 
enough so that you and the family may have a few of the 
luxuries of this life, and the children a good education. 

59 



PLATE NO. 12 
A Side of Mutton as it Should be Cut 

1. Front shank. 

2. Leg of Lamb or Mutton. 

3. Loin of Lamb 

4. Breast of Lamb. 

5. Shoulder of Lamb. 

6. Arm cut of shoulder, either chops or roast. 

7. Rib Lamb chops or used for crown roast. 

8. Showing location of the kidney at this place is where 

the English Lamb chops are cut from. 



60 




Plate No. i; 



Do you know that many times the butcher is com- 
pelled by the customer's ignorance, to lie and to sell meat 
which the customer would not have if he knew what he 
was getting in the way of actual value for his money? Why 
does the butcher do this, you ask. He is at the service of 
his customers, therefore he must obey their wishes. If he 
does not the consequence is that he will lose their patronage, 
simply because he will not give them what they think they 
want. If you educate your son to be a business or pro- 
fessional man. and your daughter for a position in the social 
world, why not educate them, as well as yourself, how to 
buy so that they may realize value received? 



MUTTON AND LAMB 

A. Side of Lamb 
2. Leg of Lamb 
Loin of Lamb 
Breast of Lamb 
Shoulder of Lamb 
Shoulder Lamb Chops 
Rib Lamb Chops 
Loin Lamb Chops 

4, 5 and 6 Mocked Duck 

5 and 6 Shoulder boned with pocket for stuffing. 

7. Frencher Chops 

7. Pan Chops 

7. Crown Roast 

Lamb Tongues 

Lamb Hearts 
9 Lamb Neck 
1 Lamb Shanks 

61 



The Lamb neck and shanks are especially recomnienclefl 
by physicians for broth recipes. 

Study closely the different cuts in the side of Lanil>, 
then learn the practical terms for each cut. 

Leg of Lamb. 

This should be recognized at once by its shape ana 
color. Do not pay Lamb price for Mutton. Lamb must 
have a delicate pink color. In 30 to 36 lb. Lambs the 
weight of each leg will not exceed 3)4 to 4 lbs., if rut at 
the hip bone joint, but if a part of the loin is left on, it can 
be cut large enough to make 5 lbs. You are now familiar 
with the shape of the loin, see- if it is left on to make the 
leg weigh that much. If, however, you have occasion to use 
53^ to 6 lbs. of Lamb, buy two legs instead of one. There 
are two reasons why this will be to your advantage. In 
the first place two legs of Lamb will carve to better ad- 
\'antage than one leg cut down onto the hip bone. This 
is all waste, and the bone will take up space in the roaster. 
Then-, in the second place, if you get past the large bone in 
the loin, you must expect to pay more per pound for the 
leg, besides having more than your share of the large bone 
in the loin chops. Why pay loin price for the leg when you 
are really getting the very poorest part and the most waste- 
ful portion of the loin ? Or, if you need a larger leg than 
can be obtained in Lamb, and do not care for two legs, get 
a leg of Mutton. 

There is always from five to eight cents difference in 
the price of the loin and in that of the leg of Lamb, depend- 
ing a good deal upon the time of the year. If it is during 
the summer there is little demand for roast meat, and there- 
fore the loin is in greater demand for chops and the legs 
may be on special sale. It is well to use judgment in this 
also. No matter where you buy a leg of Lamb or Mutton, 

62 



you must pa}^ for the shank bone, which is always weighed 
in to you and then cut out. At 25c per pound you will pay 
not less than 15c for this shank hone, which, when added 
to the original price, will raise the cost of your leg of Lamb 
when ready for the oven, to about 28c per pound. This does 
not include the remainder of the waste which is left in the 
leg. Now, compare this with the price of shoulder before 
you decide on a leg of Lamb. LInless you are going to have 
guests, and are willing to pay the diflference of 28% for ap- 
pearances, it does not pay to purchase the leg of Lamb in 
preference to the shoulder, for the quality does not warrant 
the cost. This, however, does not apply to Mutton, for 
there is some difference between the quality of the shoulder 
and that of the leg of Mutton, although not a great deal if 
the shoulder is properly aged. 

Do not under any circumstances, with the thought of 
quality and economy, purchase a loin of Lamb for a roast, 
for they are expensive enough as chops. And considering 
the fact that there is only one small bite on each little Lamb 
chop in the loin, I should not suggest the loin Lamb chops 
unless you can well afford such extravagance. 

For English Lamb chops refer to Recipes — loin with 
kidney in. 

Breast of Lamb. 

This cut, while rather wasteful in appearance, is one of 
the most economical parts of the Lamb. It is always 33y3% 
less in price than the loin or leg, even at its highest value. 
It is full of food value and can be used in many different 
ways. The small soft bones add flavor to this particular 
cut, which is not the case in any other cut of the Lamb. 
It -can be stuffed and baked or breaded and baked and 
served with tomato sauce. It can also be made into Lamb 
stew with green peas. Lamb curry and rice. Lamb stew with 

63 



vegetables and Lamb stew with dumplings. When 
cooked in a fireless cooker and served in one of the 
above combinations, it will make a very appetizing meal at 
a very low cost, both for fuel and meat. For example. A 
30c breast of Lamb will be plenty for a family of five, then 
add dressing 2>4c, j^otatoes 8c, bread 10c, butter 6c, corn, 
beans or peas 10c. 1 cup of Postum apiece 4c, cream 5c, 
sugar 3c. apple sauce 10c, fuel, when cooked in fireless 
cooker, including gas used for preparing food for cooker, 
3c, making a total of 91 ><c, or about 18 l-5c apiece, and the 
family has enjoyed a good dinner and one which has all the 
food value. 

Shoulder of Lamb. 

This piece is ne.xt in value and economy. 

Note: In diagram of the shoulder of Lamb, the bone 
sinew, which, without the test in actual weight of loss in 
bone and sinew, has the appearance of a very expensive cut 
to buy, on account of waste, but it is quite the contrary. 
Here are some of the figures arrived at by personal tests. 

A four-pound shoulder of Lamb boned, weighed, after 
all waste had been removed, 3 lbs., actual solid meat, or 1% 
waste. This same meat boned and rolled for a roast, all 
solid meat, at the price of a leg of Lamb would have cost 
you not less than 75c for the 3 lbs., including the shank 
bone, the rump bone and the knuckle bone, v/eighed in at 
your expense. Thus, in buying the shoulder with all its 
waste you still have 3 lbs. solid meat, and it has actually 
cost you the difiference between 4>^ lbs. @ 16c=:72c, for 
the shoulder, and 4>4 lbs. @ 25c=$1.12>/> for the leg of 
Lamb. Deducting 72c, the cost price of the shoulder of 
Lamb, from $1.12>4, the cost price of a leg of Lemb, leaves 
40I/2C on only 43^ lbs. of meat. And I say candidly that 
there is not 3c difference in value as to quality. If prop- 

64 



eriy cooked in the fireless cooker the shoulder will have 
much the better flavor, due to the little jelly-like sinews 
and muscles which give it a flavor and food value not to be 
found in the leg of Lamb, and at a cost of lO^c less per 
pound. A saving of 50% on this particular item, do you 
not think it worth while? Do you have meat as often as 
you would really like to have it, or do you substitute with 
something less expensive in the way of vegetables? Let 
us say that your meat bill is $12 per month, a 50% saving 
on this would mean that it is possible for you to have better 
quality meat, and oftener, for $6.00 per month, if you have 
a proper knowledge of what to buy and how to buy. 

Shoulder Lamb Chops. 

( )ne pound shoulder Lamb chops, say at 20c per lb., will 
make 13 oz. of actual solid meat after all bone has been 
removed. Necessarily the waste bone would equal 3 oz. 
to the pound. Or, in 3 lbs. of chops there would be 9 oz., 
or 1 oz. over j/< lb., of waste, which would mean 2 lbs. 7 oz. 
actual solid meat. Compare this with the scale of loin 
Lamb chops, especially those cut through the hip bone, 
which you must take your turn at buying, or else pay more 
per pound for the choice center cut of the loin chops. And 
after you have deducted the kidney fat and the little 
T-shaped bone from the loin Lamb chops, there will be only 
a small bite of meat to the chop. At an average price of 
30c to 35c per pound you will pay about 8c per bite for the 
loin chops, cut moderately thin and figuring a chop to the 
person. If cut thick the price would be correspondingly 
larger. Test this for yourself, and then judge which is the 
cheaper, including both qualit}' and quantity, the loin, or 
the: little round or arm shoulder chops. Do not let the clerk 
deceive you by offering you the shoulder round chops for 
Lamb chops off the leg, and thereby pay leg price for 

65 



shoulder chops. It can reacHly be seen, it yon will observe 
closely, that the leg has no little ribs that could appear 
around the bottom or inside edge of the leg steaks or chops. 
It is also to be remembered that the butcher never cuts up 
the legs of either Lamb or Mutton for steaks — only in cases 
where there is a large surplus, and he has no other way of 
selling them, for in cutting the legs in steaks he loses all 
the waste in the shank and trimmings, when in selling them 
as a leg you, the customer, pay for the waste. Therefore, 
if you purchase leg chops or steak, you must expect to pay 
enough difference to allow for this waste. Also, do not pay 
loin chop price for shoulder. As I have stated before, it is 
right for you to pay for your share of waste, but not for 
more than your share. 

Unless you have become a good judge of the way chops 
should appear both in color and proper shape, especially 
during the summer months, I would suggest that you insist 
that they be cut fresh, for at this season of the year Mut- 
ton, especially, is very subject to boils or a little kernel filled 
with puss. As these are found in the loin and shoulder, and 
are not close enough to the surface to be detected, the 
Ignited States Inspector has no way of seeing or knowing of 
their presence, and they will not be found until the butcher 
has cut into them. If you are not present when meat of this 
kind is being cut up, it is very easy for the butcher to cut 
around the little boil and lift it out, then slice up the re- 
mainder of the piece. These boils sometimes contain 
enough puss to fill two or three tablespoons, and when you 
know this I am sure you will not find pleasure in the 
thought that perhaps you will be the one who gets some of 
those chops. It is very, very seldom that these boils or 
kernels are found during the winter months, but it is best 
to have your chops cut to order in summer for then this 
slight operation is not likely to take place in your presence. 

66 



PER CENT OF WASTE IN LAMB CHOPS 

Ribs and Loin Chops. 

Please compare the shoulder chops with those of the rib 
and loin. 1^ lb. rib chops @ 25c per lb.=37c, or about 
5 l-7c per chop with only about 2 oz. actual meat per chop. 

There is a saying that the nearer the bone the sweeter 
the meat. That being the case, the rib chops will take the 
place of not a little sugar. For a very fancy delicate dinner 
for guests, they can be arranged in many pleasing ways, 
such as Frenched chops, pan chops or for a crown roast, 
and in this shape the customer gets less for the actual cash 
than in any other wav in which they could be purchased. 
The Frenched chop has all the meat cut from the rib half 
way down its length, then the rib bone is scraped and 
cleaned until it makes a very nice little handle by which to 
take hold of the chop. Then the chop is decorated with a 
fancy colored little paper frill or rosette. The guests take 
the nice (little) chop up in their fingers and eat them in 
that manner. The butcher gets the trimmings left from 
the rib chops, which he sells again for lamb stew. That is, 
he gets them unless you have insisted upon having them 
put into your package. 

Actual amount of meat in one pound rib and loin Lamb 
chops: 

One lb. rib Lamb chops with bone in @ 25c per lb.=25c. 

The bone in these chops weighs 5 oz., leaving 11 oz. 
actual meat for which you have paid 25c. Therefore, for 1 
lb. of actual meat the price would be 35c. 

16 oz. @ 25c per lb. less 5 oz.^^ll oz., or 35c per lb. 

Large Loin Chops. 

One pound @ 30c per lb.=30c. Bones, there is a waste 
of 3 oz., leaving 13 oz. solid meat. With this waste it has 
cost the sum of 35c per lb. for large loin chops. 

67 



Round Bone Shoulder Chops. 

One pound arm cut shoulder chops @ 20c per lh.=20c. 
Waste bone 2 oz., or 14 oz. solid meat. 

After taking out all waste bone in actual food these 
chops will cost 23c per lb. of solid meat. 

You will see by the above that there is 12c difference 
between a pound of the shoulder and a pound of the loin 
chops, yet there is no difference in the (juality, if the loin 
chops are Lamb and not Mutton. 

You may think the Frenched chops are very dainty. 
Have you ever considered that you could trim these little 
chops at home in just as nice a manner and at much less 
expense? The butcher's time is worth money and he must 
charge for that time. If you wish to have something fancy 
for your guests, have your butcher bone and roll a shoulder 
of Lamb, tie it every inch and a half apart, then stick 
skewers in it about the same distance apart, put your frill 
on the skewers and you will have all solid meat, just as 
sweet if not better, and at a saving of 50%. 

An English chop is a loin Lamb chop cut through the 
kidney, a piece of which is left in each chop. In this chop 
you must pay loin chop price for mutton, suet and kidney. 
This is dainty meat if one can afford to be extravagant. 

Heart, Liver and Tongues of Lamb. 

The heart is a very economical part of the Lamb. 
They can be stuffed and baked, or are nice fried. They 
can also be used as meat filling for a saute or gravy. There 
are many cheap and appetizing ways in which the hearts 
of Lamb may be served and the same is true of Lamb 
tongues. 

Do not make the mistake of purchasing Lamb liver for 
Calf liver. A Calf's liver has no split at the thin end, 
but the lamb liver is split at that end. It can easily be seen 

68 



that this split is not made with a knife, as there are two 
individual pieces at the thin end of the liver. So do not 
pay 25c per lb. for Lamb liver thinking that you are buying 
veal liver. 

As mentioned before, the Lamb necks and Lamb shanks 
have a very important place in the sick diet, as they 
are full of food value and nourishment for broth, etc. 
They are also splendid for stews, and are always cheap, 
since many think they are paying for too much bone when 
purchasing this kind of meat. 

Lamb suet should never be thrown away. It is always 
useful for many purposes, especially during the spring of 
the year. It should be rendered out and put into a sealed 
jar, where it will always be ready for use on chapped hands 
or to cover the top of jelly in the place of paraffine. It also 
is useful for preserving eggs. 

Crown Roast of Lamb. 

Lamb and Mutton are among the meats which can be 
most easily digested. The color of Lamb should be a light 
pink, and that of Mutton a dark red. To insure quality in 
any cut or for any purpose other 'than for stew, insist that 
it be well aged, (time it has been killed). 

If you will study each cut of the different kinds of meat 
you will be surprised to see how soon you will become fa- 
miliar with the practical term for each cut, then you will 
be in a position to know, when you are being offered a sub- 
stitute for a certain cut asked for, whether or not the sub- 
stitute is as good as the piece you desired or if the clerk is 
trying to sell it to you because it is a hard piece of meat to 
sell. If you are ignorant, he may succeed in selling you 
something you really did not want, and which you could 
have purchased for considerable less had you known what 
was being offered you. 

69 



For those who arc fond of Lanil) or Mutton there are 
many very choice and appetizing ways of preparing this 
class of meat, even the very cheapest cut. For instance, 
shoulder Lamb chops and asparagus tips will make a very 
nice meal, yet are inexpensive. Another appetizing way of 
preparing Lamb is to have the blade removed in shoulder 
Lamb which makes a pocket in the roast which may be 
filled with dressing or green peas. 

Always ask for your bone trimmings. These trimmings 
belong to you, as you have paid for their weight. They are 
always nice for flavoring the meat, as there is no meat as 
sweet without the bone as that which is cooked with the 
bone. Also, if you have chickens it is a good idea to burn 
the bone in the back yard, and you will have a splendid 
lime feed and digestive element for your laying hens. An- 
other very cheap yet splendid meat food for your chickens 
is a Lamb pluck. This consists of the heart, liver, lungs 
and the wind-pipe. If you care for the heart and liver, you 
may boil the lungs and remainder of the pluck, and when 
thoroughly cooked, chop fine and with the broth from the 
same make a thick gruel of bran or corn and waste vege- 
table trimmings from the table. Or, if you have a surplus 
of dry bread it may be used the same as the bran. This 
will make a warm yet nourishing food for laying hens in 
the winter, when eggs are scarce and high in price. 

Lamb Kidney (See Plate No. 22) 

Another very cheap ])art of the Lamb or Mutton is the 
kidney, which averages in price from 15c to 20c per dozen. 

The kidney may be cooked and served in many ways 
such as stewed kidney, kidney saute, broiled kidney and 
l^readed kidney. 



70 



Lamb Liver. 

This is always preferable to that of Pork, and is sec- 
ond only to calves' liver. However, it should not be nearly 
so high priced as calves' liver, as there are many more 
Lambs killed than veal. xA.s a change, Lamb liver is very 
nice, especially to those who care for liver at all. It may be 
breaded, or smothered in onions, liver and bacon, minced 
liver with ham served on toast, or liver and cream gravy. 

Lamb Tongues. 

These are much cheaper than the Beef tongues, and 
can be served as jelled tongue, pickled tongue, tongue salad. 
Lambs tongues with tomato sauce, or will make a splendid 
flavor in mince meat. The Lamb season is from the first 
of May until about the first of October. 

Crown Roast of Lamb. 

I do not refer to saddle and crown roast of Lamb as 
a matter of economy, but for the education of those who 
may care to know what they are and how they should look 
when ready to serve I will give a detailed description. 

The Crown roast is put up from the first six or seven 
ribs by removing the point of the shoulder blade if the 
seventh rib is used, or two sets of six ribs each. Then the 
long rib end is pealed back and the rib scraped free from 
all meat about half the length of the chops. They are all 
left in one piece — that is, the pieces of six chops each are 
not cut apart as in Frenched chops, but turned with rib 
facing outward. Then the two pieces of six ribs each are 
sewed together, making a crown shape and the bottom or 
chime bone is sawed off. Next, the trimmings that were 
taken oft' the end of the chops are run through a grinder 
and used to make a filling for the center of the crown with 
a small Lamb heart placed in the center and the filling 

71 



PLATE NO. 13 

Showing the Cuts that May be Used for Roasting and Their 
Proportion of Waste. Lamb. 

1. Whole shoulder of Lamb. With the shoulder blade re- 
moved from this cut it makes a very economical roast 
stuffed with dressing. I^igure A. shows the shoulder 
with the breast and shank left on. 

2. Breast of Lamb for either stew or baking. 

3. Leg of Lamb. 

4. Shows the waste you pay for on a leg of Lamb, but 

which vou can not use. 



72 




Plate No. i; 



placed around it. Then the back fat of Pork is cut into 
Httle strings or ribbons and interwoven around the Frenched 
tops of the chops until they have reached the top of the 
crown, after which small paper frills are placed on the end 
of each separate chop and the roast is complete. It should 
be roasted the same as a leg of Lamb, only care must be 
taken not to burn the tops or ends of the chops. When 
served with a dash of chopped roasted chestnuts, or mint 
sauce, it makes a very dainty dish. 

Saddle of Lamb. 

The saddle of Lamb is nothing but the two loins of a 
Lamb left in one piece, instead of splitting down through 
the center lengthwise. It is trimmed and tied to look very 
much like a riding saddle, using back fat, etc., for trimmings. 
But this is a very expensive roast, due to the fact that the 
loin is always expensive, and also you must pay for so much 
waste suet on the kidneys which cannot be used in any 
other way except as mention in Recipes. Since suet can 
be purchased for much less than loin price, why pay for it 
in this way? 

VEAL 

The next cuts to be considered are those of the Veal. 

Veal is very choice meat if properly cooked, but in so 
many instances inexperienced cooks attempt to cook Veal 
and spoil it from lack of knowledge. 

First of all we must remember that Veal is expensive. 
This is due to the fact that the farmer does not care to sell 
his young calves when they bring so much more in beef, 
which is especially true when he has the feed for them 
sufficient to last until they reach the Beef age. At the pres- 
ent price of Beef it is profitable to raise calves if there 
is plenty of range for the stock. 

72, 



PLATE NO. 14 

This Cut Shows the Lamb Shanks, Breast, Shoulder with 
Blade in Rib, Loin and Half Saddle of Lamb. 

1. Lamb shanks for broth or stew. 

2. Breast of Lamb with pocket ready for dressing. 

3. Lamb shank left on the breast. 

4. Shoulder of Lamb, showing the shoulder blade chops. 

W'hen this blade is removed it makes a very econom- 
ical roast stuffed with dressing. 

5. The rib Lamb chops cut from the shoulder at the eighth 

rib. ( Note the shoulder blade in the eighth chop. 
These chops are what the crown roast of lamb are 
put up from.) 

6. Loin of Lamb, showing the kidney in the small end of 

the loin. 

7. Rib and loin of Lamb from which a saddle of Lamb is 

made. 



74 




Plate No. 1' 



Veal is delicious if one has the proper knowledge of 
what to buy for the particular use for which it is wanted. 
Eighty-five per cent, of meat buyers think there is no other 
piece of Veal for breading except the Veal round. The fact 
that 85% think so is the very reason why Veal round is 28c 
to 30c per pound. Then too, you may be paying 28c per 
pound for the same piece of meat which you could purchase 
for 20c to 23c per pound if you were aware of the fact that 
you were being offered Veal round steak off the arm or 
shoulder cut. Demand has made the present high price of 
Veal round steak. Many think there is too much waste in 
the other cuts. You may test this out for yourself. Buy 30c 
worth of shoulder Veal steak, say at 23c per pound. Watch 
it weighed, then take it to some other merchant and have it 
weighed again, so that you will be sure that the weight is 
correct. After you have taken this Veal steak home, and if 
for breading, have some bread crumbs in readiness, beat 
together the whites and yelks of the necessary number oi 
eggs, salt and pepper the meat, then dip in the egg and 
cover well with the bread crumbs. Now have a skillet or 
iron spider ready. It should be hot with plenty of Cudahy's 
Suetene in it so that it will come well up around the edges 
of the steaks. Let them cook seven minutes on one side, 
then turn and cook seven minutes on the other. Take out 
and lay on cloth to drain the grease just a minute, then 
place on platter and garnish with little sprigs of parsley. 
Make a cream gravy in the pan in which the steaks were 
fried and serve a piece of shoulder Veal steak to each person 
and cover each piece with just a spoonful of the gravy. 

All the vegetables, etc., being equal, try the same 
amount of Veal round, then you will be able to jvidge 
whether or not it is more economical to purchase the Veal 
round or the shoulder Veal steak, even tho there is a little 
more bone in the shoulder. T think you will find that it pays 

75 



PLATE NO. 15 
A Side of Veal 

1. The Neck. Used for stews, pressed Veal, Veal cro- 

quetts, or Veal loaf. 

2. Front Veal shank. 

3. Arm cut of the shoulder Veal. This cut has small 

round bone and makes a very economical roast or 
cutlet. 

4. Brisket of Veal. 

3. Shoulder of Veal. This cut has the shoulder blade. 

6. Breast of Veal. For Veal stew or baked. 

7. Rib Veal chops. 

8. Loin Veal chops. The large end is Veal steak. 

9. Rump of Veal. This is for roast, but is very wasteful. 

10. Leg of Veal or Veal round for roast. In steaks it is 

called the Veal cutlet. 

11. Hind \"eal shank. 



76 




Plate No. 15 



to buy shoulder, either off the arm cut or with the shoulder 
blade in, at 20c to 23c per pound, instead of the Veal round 
at 28c to 30c per pound. After you have made these tests 
I am sure that you will always purchase the shoulder Veal 
steak until such a time when others will see and buy as you 
do and the price will rise with the demand, then you will be 
able to purchase the other cuts for the same price which 
you are now paying for the cheaper cuts. 

In the diagram of Veal, please notice the forequarter 
cuts for all occasions, whether for roast, frying, stewing, 
Veal loaf, pressed Veal, or any other purpose, then refer to 
percentage of waste in hind quarter cuts, then to Recipes 
for the particular cut and occasion, and you will see where 
you can save yourself 65%. We would suggest, however, 
that since Veal is very hard to digest, it is best to know 
whether or not it is advisable to serve it to all the members 
of your family or to your guests. If it is your desire to serve 
fried meat, you might have Veal for those who can eat it, 
and some other kind of meat for the ones with whom Veal 
does not agree. 

No Veal under six weeks of age is fit for food, but in 
the larger cities quite often Veal is sold at from three to five 
weeks old. If the Veal is not firm and solid, with enough 
of the delicate white fat on the surface to show up well, 
immediately decide that you do not want to buy it. There 
is no better way of knowing that Veal is fit to eat — that is, 
old enough and free from all diseases — than to demand Veal 
bearing the stamp of government inspection. This small 
blue stamp will be the guarantee that it is fit for food. 

Do not pay Veal price for Pork or Lamb liver, and be 
sure that the stamp is burnt into the liver, for on liver the 
stamp is burnt in and not stamped with ink. Study the 
shape of Veal liver, so that you may know it when you 
see it. 



The Veal, when cut up for the block, is quartered very 
much the same as Mutton, Lamb or Pork; therefore, after 
you have become familiar with the cuts in the three kinds 
of meat mentioned, it will not be difficult for you to recog- 
nize the different cuts of Veal. 

Veal is a very good substitute for Chicken. It may be 
used in Chicken Pie, Chicken stew, or Chicken salad, and 
there is much more meat in proportion to price, considering 
bone and waste. \\ hen mixed with Chicken, one-third part 
may be \^eal. As a matter of fact, \'eal adds to the flavor 
of the different dishes mentioned, and there is nothing nicer 
than a \'eal breast with a pocket stuft'ed with dressing, 
which may be had at a cost of S^y^'/c less than the price of 
the solid meat from the leg or loin, and is just as sweet and 
tender, altho so much more economical considering all the 
waste in bone. 

The Veal breast or neck is equal to Chicken in stew 
with dumplings, etc. 

Plate No. 15 

The different cuts of Veal 

1. Neck of Veal. 

2. Front Veal Shank. 

3. Arm cut of Veal. 

4. Brisket of Veal. 

5. Shoulder of Veal. 

6. P>reast of Veal. 

7. Rib of Veal Chops or Roast. (Not cutlets.) 

8. Loin of Veal. 

9. Rump of Veal. (For roast, not for cutlets.) 

10. Fillet of Veal or Veal Round. 

11. Hind Shank of Veal. 

78 



Veal Sweetbreads. 

These are ver}- delicious if properly prepared, but are 
very often spoiled in the preparation or cooking. They are 
always very expensive. See Plate No. 21. This shows 
the sweetbread and it must be as this cut shows it or it is 
not the Veal sweetbread. The Veal sweetbreads have no di- 
\iding sections such as the Beef sweetbreads have. They 
are always in one piece and resemble an Oyster in appear- 
ance. Soaking in salt water for an hour or longer before 
using will add greatly to the flavor, after which they should 
be washed and prepared the same as Beef or Lamb brains. 
They may be breaded or broiled, minced on toast or baked 
and served in small Oyster patties. 

Plate No. 21 
Calves' Brains 

Resemble the Beef brains in appearance, except that 
Veal brains are smaller and should be much whiter in color. 
There is at least 5c a set diiTerence in price. Refer to recipes 
on page 120 for many delicate and appetizing ways of serv- 
ing Calves' brains. 

Plate No. 22 
Calves' Liver 

As a usual thing, this is never cut up in the meat market 
in advance, so when buying Veal liver always demand to see 
the United States inspection stamp, then be sure that it is 
Veal liver for if it is Pork liver you do not want it at any 
price, and if Lamb liver you should not pay Veal price for 
it. Veal liver is not divided into three separate pieces all 
joining to one center piece, as the Pork liver is. 

By referring to Recipes on page No. 142, you will find 
several ways in which to serve all kinds of liver. There is 

79 



PLATE NO. 16 
Separate Cuts of Veal as They Should be Cut 

1. Loin of Veal showing- the pin bone after the large loin 

has been cut. This cut is very wasteful. 

2. Shoulder of Veal, showing the shoulder blade. 

3. The Veal Neck. 

4. Rump roast of Veal. ( Note the large bone in this cut.) 

5. Front Veal shank. 

6. Rib Veal chops cut from the shoulder at the eighth 

rib. (Note the shoulder blade.) 

7. Whole loin of Veal. 



80 





Plate No. 16 



such a great demand for Calves' liver that it is wise to place 
your order in advance, if it is your desire to purchase this 
sort of liver. The supply is not sufficient to fill the demand. 

Front Veal Shank. 

Vou may learn to economize by a close observation of 
Number 2, on the plate showing Veal cuts. For instance, 
if you should desire meat for pressed Veal, there is no 
better part for that purpose than the shank. It has the 
jelly substance as well as the flavor. Purchase two Veal 
shanks, cook until very tender, and save the broth from the 
meat cooked. Shred the meat and place in a small sack 
made for that purpose, or in a small dish or aluminum col- 
ander. Pour the liquid from the meat over this shredded 
meat and place heavy weights on top to press. Another 
very nice way to make pressed Veal is to run the meat 
through a meat grinder after it has been cooked until well 
done, then place two hard boiled eggs in the center and add 
more meat to cover. Place. in a long narrow aluminum pan 
and put on ice to cool. Before cooling, however, add just 
enough of the liquid so that the cooled meat will form a 
jelly. When thoroughly cold, slice and serve with sliced 
tomatoes and young green onions on a plate garnished 
wnth parsley. The Veal shank is much cheaper than any 
other cut one could purchase for this purpose, and still have 
good meat with as much food value. The shank may also 
be used for Veal stew, if you care for all solid meat, meat 
pie. Veal croquets, a substitute for Chicken in salad, etc. 
Two-thirds of the turtle soup one eats in the best cafes is 
nothing more than the broth from Veal heads and Veal 
shanks. 

If you live in a small town where there is no govern- 
ment inspector, it will be impossible for you to be sure that 
the Veal is fit for food, except by its appearance and its 

81 



condition on the block. As stated before, \'eal of the proper 
age should be firm, if it has had time enough to cool in the 
chill room after being killed. When it is soft and slips 
around all over the block, and the butcher has a terrible 
time to make it stay in shape to cut any part of it, and the 
meat has a sleek, slippery appearance, decide without delay 
that you will substitute your order for something else. 
Also keep in mind that Veal is hard to digest, if any member 
of your family is troubled with indigestion. The skins from 
gizzards of Chickens, when thoroughly cleaned, dried and 
pulverized, will make an unsurpassed remedy for indiges- 
tion, if directions are properly followed. 

From an economical standpoint alone I cannot recom- 
mend any part of the A^eal other than the shoulder Veal 
steak, the breast of Veal and the Veal shanks, as Veal is 
very scarce. When occasion demands the use of Veal, 
always manage to combine it with a cheaper substitute. For 
example — Veal breast with dressing, Veal stew with dump- 
lings. Veal pie, or shoulder Veal roast with dressing. Veal 
is high and bread is cheap, and when the bread or other 
substitute is flavored with the Veal it will be appetizing, 
and will go much further. When cooked in the tireless 
cooker there is practically no shrinkage. 

POULTRY, FISH, OYSTERS, ETC. 

T wish to call your attention at this time to the 
notes under the head of Dressed Poultry. Study these notes 
carefully, for it will be to your advantage to do so. Not 
only from an economical standpoint, but for the protection 
of your family's health, as well. 

To select a fowl for any purpose is quite a task. I 
shall try to explain why it is that you should insist upon 
certain conditions when making such a purchase. Dressed 

82 



Poultry should not be bought under any circumstances un- 
less it is drawn in your presence, or unless you take it 
home and draw or truss it yourself. With my own eyes I 
have seen conditions which would have made it impossible 
for a man to permit a Chicken or other fowl to leave his 
place of business if he had had any principles at all. For 
instance, I have seen a Chicken which appeared to be per- 
fectly healthy on the outside, but when trussed, or, prac- 
tically speaking, drawn, great abscesses and foreign growth 
would be taken out. The bird was then washed- and pre- 
sented to the customer, who would be completely deceived 
by its fine appearance. You will agree with me when I 
say that if such a condition existed when the fowl was alive, 
it could not have been a healthy bird, and when these en- 
trails have been left in it for several days it certainly has 
not improved its condition. After this fowl has been cooked 
and seasoned well, nothing will probably be noticed until 
one or more in the family becomes ill. Abscesses, tumors, 
or puss formation on the inside of a fowl cannot make good 
food value, and may cause sickness and a doctor's bill. The 
fact that a Chicken has been killed four, five, six, or even 
seven days does not affect its quality, but rather adds to it, 
providing the fowl has been kept in good cold storage. So 
many people do not want to accept Poultry which has had 
the entrails in it for so long a time, when the fact of the 
matter is that if they had been removed the bird would not 
be fit for use, for the inside of the bird is not like the out- 
side, which can dry in the air. The inside is moist and the 
air cannot dry it ; therefore it becomes sour and will spoil 
very soon after it has been trussed. 

A nice young hen for roasting can best be judged by 
feeling of the point of the breast bone. If it is soft and plia- 
ble and the wings in the joint nearest the body break very 
easily, you can depend upon it that you have a young, or 

83 



at least a good roasting fowl. Rut if the point of the breast 
bone is hard, and the center of the breast bone shows callous 
from the roost, change your mind about that particular 
Chicken. Insist upon the head and feet being on the 
Chicken you purchase. Their presence will not mean that 
you are paying for more waste than you are entitled to, for 
the price, will be proportionately the same. 

For example: A hen weighing- 4 lbs. 10 oz. x @ 25c 
per lb.=$l.lS. 

A hen with the head and feet on weighing say 4 lbs. 10 
oz. @ 25c per lb.==$1.15. The same bird with the head and 
feet off would weigh 4 lbs. 4 oz. with a waste of 34 lb. to 
either you or the butcher ; therefore, you must expect to 
pay for that loss either in the first cost or in the additional 
cost added to the fowl. Since there is a waste of 6 oz. you 
must pay the equivalent of this waste, or 28c per pound 
for the fowl with the head and feet ofif, or a difference of 3c 
per pound regardless of first cost. It is to your interest to 
have the head and feet on, for you will be able to judge 
from the eyes and appearance of the head whether or not 
the Chicken was in good health and not afflicted with sore 
head, chicken pox or other ailment. By the feet you will 
be able to judge the age to much better advantage. 

When ready for the oven your Chicken will cost you 
not less than six cents per pound more than when weighed 
in the rough. I have tested this out and know it to be a fact. 
When the entrails have been removed and the head and 
feet taken off, no matter what the original price, it will cost 
you not less than six cents per pound more, or about 26^/? 
waste. 

A roasted fowl serves, on an average basis, about two 
people to the pound. In fricassee the same fowl will serve 
three persons to the pound. But for fricassee it is extrav- 
agant to purchase roasting Chicken, since you can buy an 

84 



old rooster dressed for about 12c to 15c per pound, and 
when cooked in the fireless cooker it will be just as juicy 
and tender as a high priced roasting hen. The fireless cooker 
not only saves the fuel necessary to cook the meat, but 
saves it from shrinking and from losing any of its flavor. 
As cooking is the one essential necessary for tender meat, 
fricasseed chicken should always be cooked in a fireless. 
After cooking in this way for six hours you will have a very 
tender Chicken, and at a 50% less cost than if you had pur- 
chased a Chicken at 25c or 27c per pound. 

If you do not live in an apartment and have any back 
yard space at all, it would be greatly to your interest to 
keep a few hens just for your own use, if such is not already 
the case. These few Chickens could use up the vegetable 
scraps, etc., and in that way nothing would be wasted. You 
would also be able to have your own eggs, and a nice fat 
hen to eat whenever you cared for Chicken. You would 
also have the pleasure of knowing that you had something 
fit to eat. 

Broilers. 

You may tell a nice select broiler in the same way in 
which you judge a hen, only that in a broiler the joints 
should all be soft and easily broken under very light pres- 
sure. A broiler should weigh from 1^ lbs. to 2 lbs., largely 
depending, of course, upon the breed, but the waste in en- 
trails, head and feet is much greater in proportion than in 
a hen or rooster. A young growing Chicken is largely 
head and feet, so when you are purchasing a broiler you 
must realize that instead of 26% or 27% waste you are 
paying for about 42% waste. Broilers are the first young 
Chickens on the market in the spring, and, like all other 
luxuries, come high. Therefore, I cannot under any circum- 
stances recommend broilers from the standpoint of econ- 

85 



omy, unless you raise them yourself, and in that case you 
could realize a good profit by selling them, and with the 
receipts therefrom could substitute with some good substan- 
tial kind of meat. 

Fryers are the spring Chickens averaging in weight 
from 2 to 4 pounds, and range in price from 25c to 40c per 
pound, and therefore certainly cannot be called economical 

TURKEYS 

Under the head of Poultry we still have Turkeys, 
Ducks, Geese and Squabs. During the holidays you have 
many disappointments. You try to select a nice Turkey 
for the Christmas dinner, and because the butcher took your 
order for an 8 lb. Turkey, and gave you one which weighed 
only 6^ lbs. when weighed at home, you become provoked. 
All Turkeys in the West are weighed as dressed weight 
with head and feet on and entrails in. Or, in other words, 
only the feathers are taken ofif. So, if it is your desire to 
serve Christmas dinner to friends or the family, proceed 
as follows and you will have no trouble. First, go to the 
market early enough in advance, so that you will be sure of 
getting a Turkey which has been killed at least four days 
before you expect to use it. Do not wait until the last 
moment when everyone else has selected the choicest and 
best birds. Pick out a bird which has enough fat to be well 
covered and white, then notice the crop to learn whether or 
not you are purchasing a crop-full of corn at 28c to 30c per 
pound. Do not take a bird which has been fed all it could 
eat just before it was killed. Also, do not buy a thin blue 
looking bird at the same price per pound as a fat Turkey. 
The fact that it is not extra fat does not mean that it is not 
a good bird, for a very young Turkey may not always be 
fat. You can easily substitute the fat with a few slices of 

86 



Cudahy's dry salt Pork, laid over the breast and legs, but 
it is worth a difference of 3c a pound to you if you have to 
purchase the Pork fat and keep basting it all the time in 
order to obtain satisfactory results. 

Next, it is your privilege to see the Turkey weighed. 
Do not pay for warm weight. After you have seen it 
weighed, figure on from 1^^ to 1^ lbs. waste in head, feet, 
and entrails, to every 10 lbs. of Turkey. This, of course, 
is your loss, as you are buying at dressed weight, which 
means with the head and feet on and the entrails in. There- 
fore, a ten-pound Turkey, when ready for the oven and not 
including the dressing, will weigh from 8^4 to 8)^ lbs., and 
will serve two persons to the pound when cooked. Shrinkage 
in cooking, 123/2%. Note time for cooking on page 

1. Go early to get choice in selection. 

2. Select a fat bird, or demand the difference of 3c 
per lb. 

3. Do not buy corn at the same price as Turkey. 

4. Do not pay for shrinkage or warm weight. 

5. Stay there and see that your particular bird is 
marked with your name. 

6. When you are ready for your Turkey, go and get it 
yourself and see it drawn, or else take it home and draw it 
yourself. 

7. Roast it in an aluminum roaster, thus saving 
shrinkage and retaining the flavor. 



DUCKS 

When you have become tired of every other kind of 
fowl and desire a change, a nice fat Duck is very good to 
substitute for the occasion, there being less waste and act- 

87 



ual loss in a Duck than in any other fowl you can buy. But 
very often every member of the family does not care for 
Duck, and your dealer does not always have Ducks on hand 
just when you want one. However, by placing your order 
far enough in advance you can nearly always depend upon 
your dealer to get one for you. Unless your butcher carries 
a complete line of Poultry, and has a man for this purpose, 
he is liable to make very little effort to obtain a Duck for 
you unless you insist, for it takes longer to dress Ducks than 
to dress any other line of Poultry. If you find that he will 
not dress one for you, take the Duck home with you. Have 
some boiling water ready, and after you have killed the 
Duck, wrap it up in a barley sack and pour hot water over 
it, keeping it covered so that the steam cannot escape. Leave 
it wrapped for about five minutes, then unwrap and start 
to pick and you will find that you will not have much more 
trouble than when picking a Chicken. The waste in draw- 
ing or trussing a Duck is about 2^ ounces to the pound. 
This, of course, includes head and feet. The average price 
for Ducks is about 25c per pound, but because of the fact 
that Duck does not carve quite so nicely as Chicken, Turkey, 
Squabs or Rabbit, it is not quite so choice to serve to guests. 
There is no real way in which to determine the age of a 
Duck so that one may know whether or not he is getting 
one that will be tender. I suggest that if there is any doubt 
at all it is best to parboil for about an hour before putting 
into the pan to roast, but be sure to save the broth, as it will 
make splendid gravy, and will be fine to baste with while 
cooking in the roasting pan. 

As Ducks and Turkey do not come under the head of 
economy, unless raised at home, I should not suggest their 
use except on special occasions, such as holidays, or for 
guests. However, economy and entertaining do not work 
in harmonv with one another. 



WILD DUCKS 

You may improve the taste of wild Ducks very much 
by first par-boiling with one-half of an onion, which will 
take the wild game taste away, and adds greatly to the 
flavor. The waste and shrinkage of wild Ducks in dress- 
ing, cooking, etc., is about 45%, which, of course, shows 
that they are not to be used with a thought of economy. 

There is much difiference of opinion between consumers 
and butchers regarding the drawing or trussing of a fowl. 
As I have stated before, from personal experience I have 
found that as soon as the bird is drawn it will commence 
to sour inside, unless packed in ice, which necessarily will 
extract the flavor from the bird if allowed to remain that 
way for any length of time. If the fowl is kept in the proper 
temperature, even tho the entrails are still in, the fowl will 
not take the odor from the entrails except in cases where 
there has been carelessness in placing in cold storage. The 
fowl should not be frozen. 

Never put meat, other than Poultry and Fish, in cold 
water to wash or clean it, but instead, use a wet or damp 
cloth with which to wash it. By putting the meat in cold 
water it is toughened and the flavor is extracted. Poultry 
is quite different. After the fowl has been drawn, the inside 
of the bird should be thoroly washed before using, but this 
should not be done until just before the time when it is to 
be cooked, as the more moisture on the inside the more tend- 
ency to sour. All Poultry, also all meat, such as roasts, 
steaks, chops, etc., should be seasoned while cooking, but 
not before the heat has closed the pores of the meat. This, 
of course, does not apply to meat such as liver, sweetbreads, 
or anything to be rolled in bread crumbs or cracker crumbs, 
for in such cases, in order to flavor the meat, you must apply 
seasoning to the meat. 



All meats should be cooked over sufficient heat to sear 
it on all sides. By this method the pores will be closed and 
the meat will retain its flavor and juice and will not let it 
escape into the pan or kettle. Let us take a pot roast, for 
example. Never start a pot roast by dropping into cold 
water and letting it come to a boil. First, put it in the bot- 
tom of the kettle without any water, and no more than just 
enough suet to keep from l)urning. It should then be seared 
or browned until there is a crisp covering on the surface. 
Water should then be added gradually, until there is suf- 
ficient to allow the meat to brown and to cook slowly until 
nearly done. To finish, more fire should be used, in order 
to finish quickly and to brown well, adding just enough 
water at a time to keep from sticking or burning. This does 
not apply to meat cooked in the fireless cooker, as there is no 
chance for evaporation when the cooker is used. 

For chops and steaks the grease should always be very 
hot, and too much meat should not be put in at one time 
as that will decrease the temperature. The most important 
thing to be considered when cooking any kind of meat in 
any way is to close the pores so that all juice and flavor 
may be saved. 

Poultry should always be basted while cooking at the 
highest temperature. When roasting a Turkey, Duck, 
Chicken, Suckling Pig, or other oven roast, the oven should 
be very hot before the meat is put in, and if necessary the 
temperature may be gradually decreased. 

SQUABS OR YOUNG PIGEONS 

There is no other kind of bird which will be more ap- 
preciated in the sick room, when the diet will permit of the 
use of some dainty little dish of meat or Poultry, than 
Squabs. Not only is this fowl appreciated by those who 

90 



are ill, but by the other members of the family as well, and 
if residing in a small town one can almost always obtain 
this sort of bird from some small lad who wants to make 
spending money. And he can make good money in this 
way, for with the co-operation of a few friends he will be 
able to establish a steady demand for his birds. There is 
no great expense connected with the feeding of pigeons, 
as they rustle most of their feed for themselves as well as 
for their young. I would suggest that if you have a Chicken 
yard, put up a post eight or ten feet high and make a nice 
little pigeon house up there, then you will be able to raise 
your own Squabs. They are far superior to spring Chicken, 
and require much less attention unless raised for the 
market. For the man who does office or clerical 
work, and who has not the hearty appetite or desire for 
more substantial food, such as is possessed by the man who 
does manual labor, young Pigeons and Squabs are quite 
a treat and will make a dainty, appetizing meal. But even 
the one who does manual labor will enjoy a nice fried Squab, 
baked Squab, or Pigeon pie. However, they are rather 
expensive unless one can buy them from a small lad or from 
a neighbor, or unless one raises them at home, for the 
market must pay the boy or farmer who sells them at a 
profit, and also must pay some one to pick and dress them, 
and therefore by the time this exchange of profit is made 
the price will be from 25c to 40c apiece, and when one con- 
siders that one Squab is sufficient only for one person with 
an ordinary appetite, one can easily see that Squabs are a 
luxury. The merchant is entitled to a profit for his trouble, 
therefore do not consider it robbery when he asks 25c to 30c, 
or more, for each Squab, but if raised at home, or purchased 
from a boy or neighbor, as above mentioned, they are very 
economical. The waste in dressing, ready for cooking, 
will be about yi or 25%. 

91 



The best way to ascertain the age of Pigeons and 
Squabs is by trying the wings at the first joint on the body 
If they break easily and do not have a brittle pop, and if 
the breast bone on the point is soft, you may feel sure you 
have a young bird. 

RABBITS 

Never, under any circumstances, purchase a wild rab- 
bit that has the appearance of grub worm in the back. This 
condition is found in wild rab])its during the months of 
August, September and October, and the grub worm is 
usually found in the center of the back. It burrows down 
through the hide and lodges between the hide and the 
center of the back or the loin, and whenever removed after 
the Rabbit has been killed it leaves the appearance of a 
small bruise, or will leave the particular place bloodshot. 
In dressing them at the market the grub worm is very easily 
removed without notice as one naturally expects to find 
more or less bloodshot meat from the shot of the gun, but 
there is this difference, if the shot has made the bruise some 
shot will be found in nearly every instance. 

Rabbits are very different from Poultry, and should 
be dressed as soon as killed. The Rabbit can be Lamb 
dressed, or the side can be thrown open so as to let the 
inside dry thoroughly, if a small stick is run across the back 
similar to the manner in which you have seen dressed 
Lambs in the market. Above all things, examine the liver 
of the Rabbit before purchasing, and if it has not the liver 
do not buy it at all, for often by close examination of the 
liver it will be found to be covered with small dots of white 
puss pimples, and if this is the case the Rabbit is not fit 
for food. If the liver is diseased it is an evidence that the 
animal was not in a normal state of health and should 
not be eaten. 

92 



It will greatly improve the taste of Rabbit to sprinkle 
with salt about an hour and a half before using, then thor- 
oughly wash and dry with a cloth and cook in the same 
manner in which one would cook a Chicken. I would sug- 
gest tame Rabbits or Belgium Hares in preference to wild 
Rabbits, if possible to obtain them. If there is room in your 
back yard they will prove a good investment, providing you 
do not let them accumulate faster than you can use the 
3'oung for the table, for if it is necessary to purchase more 
feed for them than the waste vegetable scraps from the 
table, etc., it is cheaper to buy them at the market. As 
they accumulate very quickly, it is not wise to get very 
many to start with. They make splendid meat for dinner or 
for Sunday in place of Chicken and can be cooked in most 
every way in which one can cook and serve Chicken, with 
the exception of salad. Unlike other kinds of meat, one 
day is sufificient for a Rabbit to be dressed in advance of the 
time when it is to be used. 

1. See that it is smooth and clean on the back and loin. 

2. Do not pay for warm weight. 

3. Examine the liver, as above set forth. 

4. Use salt freely one and one-half hours before cook- 
ing. Then wash ofiF the salt and cook. 

5. If w^eighed with hide on, notice how much you are 
paying for the hide. The hide on a 2^^ lb. Rabbit will 
weigh about 5 oz. ; with the feet included it will weigh 8 
oz. or Yz pound. One-half pound at \2y2Q. will cost 6j4c. 
This added to the 2 lbs. of meat Actually remaining will 
make the price of your Rabbit 36c first cost, plus 6c more 
for the hide, which equals 42c for two pounds of actual meat, 
when the price is \2y2Q per pound with the hide on, or 21c 
per pound. 

When buying always use your own judgment and your 
eyes, so that you may defend yourself from deception. 

93 



You owe this to yourself and to the one who places his in- 
come in your hands. It is not wise to teach oneself to 
believe that every merchant is trying to take advantage 
of his customers, but one should learn to demand what they 
pay for. No more, however, for that would be an injustice 
to the other person, which would be dishonesty on your 
side of the counter just as much as it would be dishonest 
for the clerk to take advantage of you on the other side. 

FISH 

Fish is one of the most healthful kinds of meat, but, 
as there are very few ways in which it can be cooked, one 
naturally grows tired of this sort of meat if used at the 
table frequently. The white Fish is to be suggested as the 
best variety. Halibut, Baracuda, Sand Dabs, Sole, Rock Cod, 
King Fish, Yellow Tail and Smelt all come under the head 
of white Fish. If there are little ones in the family you 
should never serve Fish which has small bones, such as 
Smelt, Rock Cod, King Fish or Herring. The Halibut, 
Baracuda, or fillet of Sole are the best to buy for baking, 
where there are little children who might get a small bone 
in their throat and strangle to death. Always notice if the 
Fish which is being offered for sale is thoroughly packed 
in ice. Never under any circumstances accept any Fish 
which has a musty odor. If it has been scaled it should 
not be very slimy, and if it is fresh Fish it should not have 
a musty odor. There is no better agent for ptomaine poison 
than tainted Fish. If you desire sliced Fish, or Fish to fry, 
always insist upon its being cut in your presence, for that 
is your assurance that it has not been sliced and laying on 
display in a pan in the show case for hours without ice. 
There is no reliable way in which to examine Fish after it 
has been sliced. Small Fish such as Smelt, Sand Dabs, etc., 

94 



are usually sold with the head on. Do not think that you 
are paying an exorbitant price at 12i^c to 15c per pound 
for this class of Fish, but reserve the right to see and know 
that they are well iced and are fresh. The above also ap- 
plies to Lobsters in a general way. If they have been 
taken off the ice and have become musty they are not fit for 
food, and may lead to a large doctor bill, besides the pain 
and inconvenience suffered by the sick one. 

Nothing in the meat line is more easily digested than 
Fish. It is brain food, and has a great deal of nourishment, 
but very often dealers sell from the day before, or possibly 
several days before. If you do not live on the ocean front, 
where the Fish comes into the market fresh every day, you 
will be accepting it at its limit of age lit for human con- 
sumption if it is purchased on the day it comes in, so de- 
mand that it be fresh. The same rule applies to Clams. 

OYSTERS 

Oysters are something which can be prepared and 
served in many appetizing ways, but great precaution 
should be taken as to three things. First : If you are pur- 
chasing the bulk Oysters, see that there are no little fer- 
mentation bubbles on the top of the liquor, or sour smell to 
them, and do not accept them if they have a sour smell. 

Second: If buying the pint or quart Oysters canned, 
notice the can to see that it is not bulged or swollen, and 
that they are always well covered with ice. No matter 
what time of the season, nor how cold is the weather, a 
slight change in the temperature in which the Oysters have 
been kept will cause fermentation. Always go around the 
edge of the Oysters with your finger tips before cooking. 
A customer of mine once found an $80 pearl after she had 
cooked it in an Oyster stew. It does no take long to examine 

95 



them before cooking, and it may be the means of paying 
you well for your work. If the pearl is cooked its value is 
ruined. 

Do not think that by laying a can of Oysters on the ice 
you are taking no chance of their spoiling, for only the 
Oysters on the bottom of the can next to the ice are the ones 
that will receive any benefit. Open the can and pour them 
out in an aluminum pan, which will allow most of the 
Oysters to rest in the bottom of the pan, then all of them 
will receive the effect of the ice. Oysters are good only 
during such months in which the letter "R" is to be found. 

Third : If you are purchasing Oysters in count measure 
see that you are getting uniform size, not four large ones 
and eight small ones for dozen count. If they are sold in 
liquid measure see that your pint or quart bucket is stamped 
quart or pint, whichever the case may be. The government 
demands this, and you should insist upon it. You have 
the right to know whether or not you are getting what you 
are supposed to be paying for. Count measure is the best 
and most fair to all, to you as well as to the merchant. That 
way you can tell what you are paying for. Ry buying them 
liquid measure you may possibly be paying 33^/3% for liquor 
or juice, and one-third Oysters. 

SMOKED AND CANNED FISH 

Never buy smoked Fish unless it is under screen or 
glass cover, for it is very acceptable to flies. 

In using any form of canned Fish or Oysters take par- 
ticular notice that there is no bulge or leak in the can. 

Never select canned Fish because of its attractive 
label. Know a good grade or brand of canned Fish and 
insist upon that grade or brand. 



96 



BACON AND SMOKED HAMS 

As I have said before you must pay for the fancy labels 
and the large bill board ads., the street car ad., and the ads. 
in periodicals and telephone books, when you enter the 
market and insist upon Swift's Premium Ham, Swift's Pre- 
mium Bacon, or any other widely advertised brand. I would 
advise you to use your judgment in this as in other mat- 
ters. Many times I have tried to help the housewife to use 
economy in the selection of her bacon and ham. As I write 
this article I think of a number of such instances. I am 
at present employed by the San Antonio Meat Market, of 
Pomona, California. This market is very neat, clean and 
up to date, and has a large packing house where all stock 
is killed under government inspection. In the local terri- 
tory this market puts up a splendid bacon and ham, but 
many housewives and students of domestic science who 
follow mother's teachings and style of keeping house will 
enter the market and ask for Swift's Premium Bacon. When 
told that we have it, they will ask how much it is. We tell 
them 38c per pound sliced. "But," we say, "we have our 
own grade of bacon, which we guarantee to give absolute 
satisfaction, and if you find that you are not entirely satis- 
fied with the flavor and quality after you have tried it, you 
may return the unused portion, and the amount you have 
used will not cost you a cent. This bacon is 20c per pound. 
Sugar-cured bacon in this age of high prices, at 20c per 
pound, with a guarantee that if it is not satisfactory there 
will be no cost to you, and you are to be the judge." Still 
they insist upon Swift's Premium, with a difference of 18c 
per pound. You may ask, why such a difiference? Suppose 
that you have a room to let, or a sewing machine to sell, or 
wish to purchase some second-hand article, does it not cost 
you something to let your wants be known to those with 

97 



PLATE NO. 17 



1. Diamond C ham. 

2. Rex skinned ham. 

3. Rex boiled ham. 

4. Diamond C boiled ham. 

5. Diamond C bacon. 

6. Rex bacon. 



98 




P1af<» M/-. 17 



whom you are not acquainted, but who read the newspaper? 
Certainly it does. But how much will it cost the person 
with judgment to ask some one where he might get the very 
kind of article you advertise, and if he is able in that man- 
ner to find just what he desires, the cost will be nothing, 
because he had no part in the paper advertisement. It does 
not cost anything to ask questions, and if you bleieve that 
you are trading with a reliable business house, why not take 
the butcher's word or judgment at times? Probably he 
knows your financial position better than you think, and if 
he is reliable he will be willing to try to help you economize. 
He cannot, for the sake of making one small sale, run the 
risk of losing your patronage by getting you to purchase 
something which he knows will not give satisfaction. 

After a thorough investigation of several larger packing 
companies, and through personal experiments and tests of 
the goods. I have discovered that with due consideration 
of the Swift Premium brand, Armour's Famous Star brand 
hams and bacon, etc., and the many good grades put out by 
other firms, I can safely recommend all goods put out by 
the Cudahy Packing Company, and after a reasonable trial 
of their goods I'm sure that you will agree with me. The 
Cudahy Packing Company spends nothing more for adver- 
tising than sufficient to acquaint the wholesaler, and in a 
moderate manner, the public, with its goods. There is in 
my judgment no better grade of ham and bacon put out 
than the Diamond C and Rex brand of this company. Try 
Cudahy's Rex brand skinned ham for a Sunday morning 
breakfast — you will find it excellent. The Rex brand bacon, 
sugar-cured, has a flavor like the good old home-cured 
bacon, and you will find that to be the case with the ham 
also. In this brand you are not compelled to pay for a 
great deal of surplus waste, as in other favorite brands. 
The retailer does not pay for fancy paper wrappers and 

99 



PLATE NO. 18 

1. Rex bacon strips. 

2. Diamond C dried Beef. 

3. Diamond C bacon. 

4. Rex bacon. 

5. Diamond C bacon sliced. 

6. Diamond C bacon in whole side. 

7. Rex boneless butts (a fine substitute for either ham or 

bacon). 



100 






0% 





Plate No. 18 



pretty pictures, which is to your interest. Another great 
advantage to you is that the Cudahy Packing Company has 
its branch houses distributed all along the coast, and it is 
not necessary for you to pay additional freight on goods 
shipped here from the East. This company has a large 
plant in Los Angeles, where it puts up its smoked meats 
and canned goods, and there is economy in every article pur- 
chased by you from Cudahy's. If you desire both quality 
and flavor combined with reasonable prices when buying 
ham and bacon, you cannot make a mistake by purchasing 
the Rex brand or the Diamond C brand. You will always 
be able to recognize it by the brand. If you will observe 
the cuts or plates in this book you will find that this brand 
is always there, plain and visible. 

All meats handled by Cudahy are put up under the 
most strict government inspection. If your dealer does not 
handle this brand, insist that he get it for you, and you 
will not be the only one who will make this request after 
other housewives become acquainted with the facts con- 
tained in this book. If the merchant tries to substitute, 
politely but firmly tell him that no other brand is accept- 
able to you, for in every town or city large enough to have 
two or three stores, you will find some merchant who will 
handle Cudahy's goods. A merchant will cater to the 
wishes of his customers, as he cannot afit'ord to refuse to 
recognize the demands of his best and most steady patrons. 

For many years I have studied how and what it was 
best for the customer to buy in order to allow a fair profit 
to the butcher, yet protect those who did not know how to 
buy without paying for more than their share of the waste in 
bone, fat, sinew, etc. After studying this book as you 
would anything which is to your interest and advantage, I'm 
sure you will find that in two months' time you will realize 
many times its price. Day after day I have watched the 

101 



small wage-earner come into the market and insist upon 
the same fancy grade and brands purchased by the banker 
or capitalist with an income of many times three years' 
salary of the other man. Of course, from a standpoint of 
justice the small wage earner should be entitled to as good 
as the rich man. But just because one buys the highest- 
priced article he is not necessarily getting the best in qual- 
ity. I once knew a man who paid as high as one dollar a 
pound for liver, when the same piece of liver could have 
been purchased for 10c per pound. You may wish to knovv' 
the reason. It was because he paid his bill once in a year, 
and demanded delivery service nine miles out in the country. 
However, he was satisfied, because he had the money and 
demanded the service. The same thing is true of fancy 
advertising. 

The Cudahy Packing Company spends just enough to 
keep their name before the public, but not in the form of 
fancy signs and elaborate displays, for when one becomes 
acquainted with their goods they will, through their own 
good judgment, insist upon Diamond C and Rex goods be- 
cause they obtain the same quahty and flavor for which 
they pay more in the expensive brands. If your merchant 
trys to favor some other company and allows this grade of 
goods to become old and musty in order to influence you to 
try others, immediately drop a line to the Cudahy Packing 
Company, letting them know that the quality is not up to 
standard, and you will soon be able to obtain a much better 
quality than you have been getting, altho it might be neces- 
sary for you to purchase them at some other store. This 
company will protect their goods as well as you. 

On Plate No. 17 you will find: 

Best grade of ham, Diamond C, with trade mark on 
every piece. 

Best grade of bacon. Diamond C. 

102 



Best grade of boiled ham. Diamond C. 

This grade is second to none from a standpoint of qual- 
ity, flavor, and particularly from a viewpoint of economy. 

When purchasing Diamond C skinned ham for frying 
you are not paying for a lot of surplus fat and rind which 
you cannot use. The average price depends, of course, upon 
the season of the year during which it is purchased, but a 
fair average price is 30c per pound, retail. This means 
sliced, of course, not a cut down on the shank or the price 
of the string that holds it on the hook. Why should you 
pay 30c per pound for the first or last cut of ham wheii 
someone else gets one right out of the center for the same 
price? Is it not useless to pay 35c to 38c per pound for ham 
in fancy label when the same quality can be obtained for 30c 
per pound without the fancy label. This applies to that most 
delicious grade of Diamond C bacon, also. This bacon 
is all nicely sliced and the rind taken ofif, every slice medium 
with lean and fat, sweet and full of flavor. If your ham is 
salty and you must parboil first before frying, it will cost 
you something in shrinkage besides losing all the good 
flavor which boiled out in the water instead of remaining in 
the ham. One must consider all these things in connection 
with economy. The taste is the best way of telling, and 
one should not eat with his eyes only, and altho appear- 
ances have a great deal to do with quality and selection, 
I should not advise you to rely entirely upon looks. You 
will be able to judge its quality best after you have tasted 
the food, so use your own judgment after having tasted, 
but do not forget that 50% of the quality and taste will de- 
pend upon how it is cooked. In this book I have set forth 
a time table for cooking all kinds of meat, also how it 
should be treated before cooking so that it will retain its 
juice and flavor. One should never turn any kind of meat 
with a fork, as that will allow the juice to escape, and will 

103 



cause the meat to become tasteless and dry. The amount 
of shrinkage will also largely depend upon the amount of 
juice which escapes. 

In the Diamond C ham there is only 12% shrinkage 
in frying the sliced ham. Compare this with 16% and 21% 
in some of the more expensive brands. I am sure that you 
will find upon trial that the Diamond C and Rex brand of 
ham and bacon is second to no other grade or quality in any 
other brand. One can easily remember the names Diamond 
C and Rex. Of course the Cudahy Packing Company puts 
up cheaper grades, but for cjuality do not pay more. If 
you cannot obtain Cudahy's smoked meat from your market, 
order it from your grocer; he will get it for you. Or, if 
there are enough neighbors in your vicinity who are inter- 
ested in making the dollars go as far as possible, you can 
easily form- a small club system, where there are no markets 
handling these goods in your town, and can order direct 
from the packing house nearest your place of residence. 
In that way you will be able to save a retail profit, and the 
smoked ham, bacon and dried beef will be nice and fresh. 
Of course, this system could not be used when there is a 
retailer in the town who sells Cudahy's goods. In that case 
the merchant is entitled to a profit, and the company can 
only direct you to their agent in your community. 

In ham and bacon the most select grade is the Diamond 
C, the second is Rex. And, to say the very least of Rex, it 
is far superior to many of the best grades of other com- 
panies. It is full of flavor, and does not all cook away when 
frying, neither is it necessary to parboil Rex ham, bacon 
or chipped beef in order to dispose of that surplus quantity 
of salt found in so many other grades of smoked meats. 
The meat displayed on Plate No 17 is just as it was taken 
from stock and was not selected or prepared especially for 
this occasion. 

104 



No. 1. Rex Bacon strips make splendid bacon for the 
breakfast, or seasoning, and are very reasonable in price. 

No. 2. Rex dried beef, which sells for about 5c per 
pound less than the more advertised brands, and still has 
all the quality and flavor. The Rex chipped beef is put up 
in small 4 oz., 8 oz., and 12 oz. jars, which makes it con- 
venient to take on camping trips, etc., for in this way it does 
not dry out and will keep indefinitely. 

No. 3. Rex bacon. No. 4 shows the average width 
of Rex bacon when cut in two. 

No. 5. Diamond C bacon sliced. Note the even streaks 
of lean. Lard is worth 15c per pound, then why pay 30c 
for it in bacon and have to render it out yourself? In other 
words, why pay for surplus fat on bacon when one could 
purchase much cheaper bacon of that class, or cooking 
grease for much less and in greater quantity than the fat 
left from frying real fat bacon. 

No. 6. Diamond C bacon in a piece. 

No. 7. Boneless butt Rex brand. This is a fine sub- 
stitute for either ham or bacon. It is the Pork shoulder 
boned, smoked and put through the very same process as 
the ham. The boneless butts are also very good to take 
on a camping trip, and will keep in all kinds of weather. 
You can obtain them in small shoulders from 2^^ lbs. up 
to 5 and 8 lbs. 

The Pioneer brand bacon is the third grade bacon put 
up by Cudahy, and is a splendid smoked meat for all season- 
ing purposes as well as for frying, if one cares for fat bacon, 
and it is much cheaper for seasoning. 

The narrow bacon backs are much cheaper than any 
of the other grades of Cudahy's smoked meats, and for use 
with vegetables, etc., add a splendid rich smoked flavor. 
The average price is about 2V2C per lb. cheaper than the 
Rex narrow bacon. 

. 105 



PLATE NO. 19 

1. Suetene in 3, 5, 10-lb. pails. 

2. Rex brand lard in 10-11). pail. This is also put up 3 and 

5-lb. pails. 



106 




Plate No. 19 



'% 1 



LARD, COMPOUND AND SUETENE 

There are so many grades and brands of cooking oils 
and compounds in use now that the average housewife is 
sometimes confused as to just which is the best, all things 
considered — the quality, the price, and the amount neces- 
sary to do the cooking. 

If you insist upon using pure lard for cooking and bak- 
ing there is no better pure lard than Rex lard. It is all 
government inspected, and is made from nothing but good 
clean leaf lard and Pork fat. In compliance with the pure 
food law, each and every package must have the contents 
printed on the outside. Rex lard is marked pure lard, and 
therefore, will stand all tests for adulteration with suet, 
oils, etc. 

In the face of the fast advancing prices of Pork and 
its products, can you afford to pay from 3c to 4c per pound 
more for a fancy label on a bucket of lard? If it is quality 
you are considering, this deserves much thought. I would 
suggest that you try both grades, giving the fancy grade the 
advantage in cooking, and you will be able to decide for 
yourself which is best and what has been the overcharge for 
the name premium, or any other fancy titled brand at 3c to 
4c per pound more than the price of Rex lard. Another 
thing to be considered is the bucket. If you have a bucket 
at home in which you could buy your lard it will be worth 
approximately 13c to you on each bucket of lard purchased. 
The manufacturer must buy those pails in which to deliver 
the product to you, if you will not purchase lard in bulk, 
and you must pay for this additional expense. For example: 
If 4 pounds 2 oz. of lard costs 75c in a bucket, you will be 
paying for 5 pounds gross weight. Consequently, the bucket 
has cost you 13c in this instance. The higher the price of 
the lard, the more the bucket will cost you. However, if 

107 



you demand these things, such as a new bucket every time 
you purchase lard, and a nice, large, fancy, pictured label on 
your packages, you must expect to pay for it. 

Suetene. This is a shortening put up by the Cudahy 
Packing Company, and can either be purchased in bulk or 
in 3, 5, or 10 lb. buckets. If I were to go into a detailed 
description of the value of suetene for shortening, frying 
grease, as a substitute for butter in cakes, and the many 
ways in which it may be used to save time and money, you 
would think, if you had not tested it out personally, that 
it was one of the many products on the market given booster 
, advertising. I have in this book under head of recipes, sev- 
eral very good recipes which I have tried out person- 
ally. Here are recipes from Mrs. Elizabeth Smith, one of 
the most economical and yet one of the best cooks in the 
kitchen of today. In order to satisfy yourself, try one of 
her cake recipes, using suetene as she does for shortening 
and as butter. When frying potatoes. Fish, hot cakes, or for 
any purpose for which you would use butter or a frying 
compound, try some of these recipes. Visit my demonstra- 
tions, see for yourself, then judge. Its use is economy. 

First. Because of the difiference between the cost of 
suetene and of lard. 

Second. It takes less. 

Third. It takes the place of butter. 

Four. It needs no secret form of- rules or measures in 
order to succeed in its use. 

Fifth. Everything cooked with suetene has a nice 
rich brown appearance. 

Sixth. It adds a splendid flavor, which is the test of all 
good cooking. 

Does it make you feel good to have your pies, cakes, 
or biscuits, etc., look rich and pufify, as well as have a flavor 

108 



which will make your guest or husband think that you are 
the best cook in the world? If this is worth anything to 
you, besides the fact that there is economy in every spoon- 
ful, get a small pail of Cudahy's suetene, or buy the bulk 
which is exactly the same, only always demand to see the 
brand on the package containing bulk suetene. After you 
have given it a fair trial do not continue its use if it is not 
satisfactory. Try the recipes mentioned in this book and 
I'm sure you will always insist upon having suetene, even 
tho it is necessary for you to send to the wholesale house 
for the same. 

Suetene is selling at retail for 13c to 15c per pound at 
the present time. Compare this with the price of lard at 
17^c to 20c per pound. 

What you will pay for lard or cooking compound in pails. 

Suetene consists of refined cotton seed oil, oleo stock, 
and oleo stearine. 

A 3 lb. pail, gross weight, contains 2 lbs. 5 oz. net 
weight @ 15c per pound gross weight, or 75c for 5 lb. 
bucket. You have paid 18c per pound for 4 lb. 2 oz. or 13c 
for a 5 lb. suetene pail, empty. 

10 lb. gross weight @ $1.40 or 14c per pound gross 
weight has cost you 16 l-6c per pound net. Or 19c for the 
empty 10 lb. pail. Before calling the merchant's attention 
to this, ask the price of these three sizes of lard or com- 
pound pails empty, or what he will sell you one for; make 
a memorandum of this. Then note the contents of your 
bucket, both gross and net weight. Next, purchase a small 
pail and take it home and test it out for yourself, after 
which you will be able to decide what you are paying for 
the convenience of having the lard or compound delivered to 
you in a new bucket each time. Do you consider that a 
three-pound lard pail is worth 9c to you, especially when 

109 



you have so many in the house already? Most certainly the 
bulk is much cheaper, only demand that you be shown the 
brand on the tul> containing- the same, as I have mentioned 
before. 

Compound. Ihv Cudahy Packinq- Company manufac- 
tures lard compound called White Ribbon. This is a splen- 
did substitute for lard, and is much cheaper than the pure 
lard. For all around use it is a splendid cooking grease, 
and does not become rancid nearly so quickly as the pure 
lard. 

Salad Oil. Cornett salad oil is the best and yet the 
most economical salad oil you could get for general use in 
the kitchen. It is much cheaper than the fancy labeled 
high grades of olive oil. Its flavor is delicious, and it re- 
quires much less than is necessary when using many other 
kinds of salad oil. to obtain the desired result. You can 
use it when frying Fish and vegetables such as parsnips, 
apples, egg plant, etc., and it will add greatly to their flavor. 
Under head of recipes you will notice the many differ- 
ent kinds of salads and pastry which may be made with 
Cornett salad oil. The recipes are not those copied from 
other cook books, or from schools of domestic science, but 
are original, and were obtained by experiments and tests. 
1 am sure you cannot resist the cultivation of an appetite 
for nice lettuce, potato, and other kinds of salads when made 
from Cornett salad oil. The flavor and the taste will appeal 
to you, and if you are satisfied with this you will enjoy 
all other dishes where salad oil is used, if flavored with Cor- 
nett salad oil. There is economy in eyery bottle. 

It is valuable as a medicine in cases of scalds, burns, etc. 

The gross contents are stamped on each and every 
bottle. Compare this with the price and quality of your 
favorite brand. After you haye used it in pastry and have 

110 



received the compliments of your husband on your dehcious 
cakes, etc., you will use no other salad oil. If your dealer 
does not handle this brand there is a reason. You are try- 
ing to economize, and when you have found a brand which 
is economical and satisfactory as to quality, and if you insist 
on this, as well as all favorite brands of yours, it will be 
found upon your dealer's shelves, as he will desire to keep 
your trade. If you desire a good reputation as a cook, do 
not try to serve any salad made from any other oil than 
Cornet salad oil. 

SOAPS 

White Borax Naptha soap is a product made and put 
up by the Cudahy Packing Company. Have you ever done 
a large washing, and had your clothes look all streaked and 
blue, knowing all the time that it was not from lack of 
effort on your part? After a great deal of experimenting 
through the use of both borax and naptha. this company 
discovered that by the use of a composition of both, com- 
bined with the quality of soap grease used, they had solved 
the most essential problem of washing all kinds of clothes 
and fibre. You, no doubt, through experience, know the 
value of borax and naptha for its cleansing and purifying 
qualities, naptha being a great factor in loosening up the 
grease and dirt of all kinds, and when mixed with borax 
and the soap it is easily removed without any injury to the 
clothes. To learn how to remove all the dirt from the 
clothes without chemicals or acid and without injury to the 
clothes, has been a problem to overcome. The use of borax 
has accomplished this, and the clothes are left pure and 
clean, and the goods flexible and soft. Many of those who 
use the White Borax Naptha soap have had neighbors re- 
mark that they could not see how they got the clothes so 
white and clean. There are no special directions for the 

111 



use of this soap. It should be used as any other washing 
soap is used. The results are obtained from the composi- 
tion of the soap itself with much less work and less cost. 
One bar of White Borax Naptha soap will go as far as two 
bars of the cheap resin soap, and the clothes will always turn 
out nice and white. You are to be the judge of all these 
things. This book would be of no value to you if it were 
only an advertising agent, and you can find ads. of all kind 
in your Ladies' Home Journal, Women's World, etc. I say 
these things from actual experience, and have given this 
work much thought and time. You wish to economize, and 
I am trying to help you if you will allow me, and will 
use your own judgment and test these things fairly for 
yourself. When I refer to inferior brands, it is not done 
with the purpose of trying to "knock" another's goods, but 
there must be a genuine before there can be a counterfeit 
of anything, and in this age of high cost of living there are 
so many gold bricks for sale that one hardly knows what 
to accept in order to obtain the best results as to quality 
and quantity. 

I ask that you attend my demonstrations, see things 
worked out practically before your eyes, and ask questions 
and learn where it is possible for you to economize. You 
alone can judge as to what will best meet your requirements 
and needs. You are using articles suggested in this book 
every day. Try them and test them out and compare notes 
with some friend and neighbor. It may be that many arti- 
cles seem cheaper to you on account of first cost. For ex- 
ample : You may buy some kinds of soap at the rate of six 
bars for 25c, and will have to pay 5c straight for this grade, 
but if it is necessary to use twice or even three times as 
much of the cheaper soap without obtaining nearly such 
good results, which of the two is the cheaper? Appearances 
are often so deceiving that it is necessary to know what one 

112 



wants and whether or not one is receiving; value, for other- 
wise one may pay many times its value because of a fancy 
wrapper, extensive advertising, service and reputation. I 
repeat this because it must be considered if one expects to 
help to put the management of the home on a proper basis. 

COOKED MEATS 

The delicatessen store has its place as a means of sav- 
ing time and labor, but not without the extra cost for service. 
Or, to put it more plainly, it is a substitute for the servant, 
and is a convenience when one is tired or in a hurry. How- 
ever, a delicatessen store cannot operate without profit. The 
profit must be sufficient to pay for the extra help required 
to cook the food, the rent, lights, fuel, license and the gen- 
eral expense of a place of business. This must be paid for 
above the actual cost of the food sold, and then there must 
be an income in return for his investment and his time. 
Let us say, for example, that you are in a hurry to prepare 
a lunch on a wash day or on a day when you have been 
detained in town until too late to make arrangements for 
the noon meal. There are three of you in the family. You 
step into the delicatessen store and see the many nice salaas, 
meats and pastry. You purchase two thin slices of roast 
beef for 20c, half a pint of potato salad for 10c, three cream 
pufifs for 25c, half a pint of combination salad or fruit salad, 
15c, making a total of 65c. You then go home, use your 
own bread, butter, and iced tea, cofifee, or milk. For the 
65c you could have had a nice little pot roast or steak, some 
gravy, mashed potatoes, salad and dessert, and you would 
have had enough meat left for the evening meal, also some 
potatoes and dessert. The fact that you did not have time 
to come home and cook this noon day meal does not mean 
that you could not have had as much in variety as well as 

113 



PLATE NO. 20 

Plate No. 20 only shows a few of the many appetizing 
but yet economical cooked meats put up by the 
Ciidahy Packing- Company. 

1. Rex Pork and Beans. 

2. Rex Vienna or frankfiirt sausage. 

3. Cornett salad oil. For all salads and much cheaper 

than olive oil. 

5. An assortment of the many appetizing cooked meats 

of the Rex brand as well as some of the cooked 
meats that might be purchased at any first class 
market using Cudahy's sausages and meats. 

6. Rex Cooked corn Beef. 

7. Rex lunch tongues (Veal tongues). 



114 



^;:::«t¥(».-^^-.«fci*a««(fl»» 






082 





Plate No. 20 



good, clean, wholesome food, by knowing- what to purchase, 
and you would thus have avoided paying your share of the 
expenses of the delicatessen store. Perhaps you will say 
that you do not care for canned goods. When you know 
and see the sanitary conditions under which canned goods, 
such as potted Chicken, cooked corned Beef, Pork and 
Beans, Frankfurt sausage, and Veal loaf are put up owing 
to the requirements of the pure food laws made for your 
protection, you will no doubt decide otherwise. You are 
not only protected by the pure food laws when buying 
Cudahy's canned goods, but every piece of meat which you 
purchase bearing their trade mark has passed government 
inspection, and because you are not paying an exorbitant 
price for fancy name and label, Rex brand of canned goods 
are the most economical when required for a camping trip 
or for a quick lunch. 

Compare the price of the food cooked at home with that 
which is purchased at the delicatessen store. 

COOKED MEATS FOR THE QUICK LUNCH 

For a picnic lunch, for camping, or when you want 
cooked meat that is clean and wholesome, always insist on 
the Rex brand of canned goods. The cooked corn Beef is 
made from select pieces of plate and shoulder cuts. It is 
put up in four sizes, so that you may always get just what 
you want for any occasion and not have to buy more than 
is needed, which would be a waste. Sizes Nos. 1-2-6-14. This 
corn Beef is properly cured by experts who understand the 
business of curing the meat, in order to give it a most 
delicious flavor, and you will have the satisfaction of know- 
ing that it is all good, clean meat and of the very best 
quality. 

For the noon day meal of sauerkraut and Vienna sau- 

115 



sage, there is nothing better than the Rex V^ienna sausage. 
And when it is impossible for you to get wiener sausage, 
which is made from the very best of meat, and is made in a 
good clean sausage kitchen under government inspection, 
always insist on the Rex Vienna. It comes in three sizes, 

y2-\-2. 

For a cold lunch in the summer time, when you feel too 
tired to cook a large warm meal, or for the picnic, which 
you have decided upon after only a moment's notice, there 
is nothing better than the Rex Veal loaf, or the Rex ham 
loaf. Every can has the contents stamped upon it, and the 
net weight placed on the outside. The motto on each can 
means a steady customer for more of this grade of goods, 
after the first trial. The taste tells. You can best be the 
judge of that, for after you have had a can of the Rex Veal 
loaf, and have opened it. you will see how pretty its natural 
color is and will find that it has a delicious flavor. I'm sure 
it will always be your favorite for a hurry-up meal or for the 
cold meat to serve to guests. Three sizes are made for your 
convenience, the 5^-1-6. No artificial coloring or chemicals 
are used in preserving this meat. 

If you are very fond of corn-beef hash, which is really 
good, try the Rex corn Beef hash for breakfast some morn- 
ing — all ready to serve. Just open the can and put the con- 
tents into the frying pan. Add enough water to start it to 
cooking. Cook until it is heated through, then it is ready 
to put on the table. 

REX DEVILIED HAM 

For sandwiches, light lunch, or a picnic, there is nothing 
that will appeal to so many as the Rex deviled ham. It is 
already to spread on the bread, and one small can will make 
seven nice sandwiches. There is no sort of cooked meat 

116 



that will make as nice sandwiches as deviled ham sand- 
wiches, and there is no better deviled ham for value and 
quality than the Rex deviled ham. 

There are so many varieties in the Rex cooked meats 
that are economical, and still have the good home-made 
flavor, that it would be impossible to do justice to each 
kind in this book. Another universal favorite is the Rex 
potted meat product. This can be used for any and all 
occasions, and can be prepared in many different, yet dainty 
and appetizing dishes. 

REX BONELESS CHICKEN 

When you desire something nice for salad, or for a 
nice little surprise at the noon-day meal for your husband, 
just make a good Chicken salad from the Rex boneless 
Chicken., It is much cheaper than the price for which you 
can purchase a Chicken already dressed at the market, and 
then there is not the trouble of preparing it at home and 
the cost of the fuel used in cooking. Of course, this does 
not apply when one raises their own Chickens. Have a 
Chicken salad nicely garnished with lettuce leaves, and 
seasoned to your taste with a little Cornett salad oil, etc., 
and you feel that you are really an artist at making salad, 
and will add another laurel to your ability as a chef, in 
your husband's opinion. 

REX OX TONGUES 

You can buy 6j/^ oz. Rex ox tongue for 20c. The 
fresh tongues sell for 20c to 25c per pound, and you must 
cook them after you have paid such a price for them, and 
imless you are using a fireless cooker, the gas or fuel will 
cost about 12c, besides the work of peeling and the shrink- 

117 



age which you must stand. The Rex ox tongues are put 
up in five sizes, so that it is not necessary for you to get 
more than you will need for the one meal, if you so desire. 
This class of meat is always ready for use at an instant's 
notice, and has the rich flavor of the tongues cooked and 
prepared at home, at much less cost. 

REX PORK AND BEANS 

You have tried many of the more expensive grades. 
Do the fancy labels and extensive advertising of the '57 
Varieties," and other high-priced brands, your portion of 
which you must pay, make beans taste any better? They 
are good, no one will dispute that, but why pay more for 
them when you can purchase beans of just as good quality, 
if not better, for less money? You are the one to be sat- 
isfied. That being the case, why not rely on your own 
judgment. You are the one who is paying more than is 
necessary if you do not give the Rex Pork and beans a 
trial, after which you will be able to decide. 

The Rex pork and beans are put up with tomato sauce, 
and just plain, without sauce, and through much experi- 
menting along this line the Cudahy Company has accom- 
plished something which places the Rex pork and beans on 
the mark with all the flavor and good taste that you will 
have from the fresh baked Boston baked beans. "The 
test of the pudding depends on the taste." You can apply 
this same test to Rex pork and beans. 

If you prefer your beans sweet, open a can and put 
three lbs. molasses on top. Place in the oven and bake 
for 15 minutes in a deep pan. 

Always remove any and all kinds of canned goods from 
the can immediately after you have opened it. There would 
very seldom be any cases of ptomaine poisoning if this rule 

118 



was strictly enforced. If a can is bulged at all, or has 
the appearance of gas or air in it, always return the can to 
the merchant where 3^ou purchased it and he will gladly 
return your money, or give you something which he has 
examined and positively knov/s to be all right, for no mer- 
chant with a sane mind, or with a conscience, would allow 
you to take a can of any kind of goods out of his store 
which appeared to be bulged or to contain air holes, as that 
would mean certain death to any who might eat of its con- 
tents. 

Pork and beans are quite often blamed for the poisoning 
of some one, when the real cause is that the can was left 
open after it had been opened, or perhaps a spoon had been 
left in the dish of beans until the acid has eaten the tin 
from the ca nor spoon, and the one who is made ill believes 
it was the beans. 

I have seen instances in restaurants when a can was 
opened and an order used out of it, then the can was set 
back in the refrigerator until some one else called for some- 
thing of the same nature. Left in the open can all this 
time, it is no wonder then that people get poisoned in this 
manner. 

On Plate No. 20, you will find a very appetizing sug- 
gestion for an economical cold luncheon for summer-time. 
This consists of a small amount of Rex corn Beef, Rex 
minced loaf, and Diamond C boiled ham, garnished with 
lettuce and stuffed olives. This, with a nice potato salad 
riavored with good Cornett salad oil, some sliced tomatoes 
and a pitcher of good cold lemonade, with some bread and 
butter and cheese, makes a most pleasing summer luncheon. 
And is very economical and very easily prepared, the cost 
being 40c for enough to serve five people, or 8c each. Under 
head of Recipes will be found many very economical and 
yet appetizing and easily-arranged luncheons of this kind. 

119 



PLATE NO. 21 

1. Calves' brains. 

2. Lamb tongues. 

3. Veal sweetbreads. 

4. Fresh tripe (or Beef stomach). 

5. Ox tails (for soup or stew meat). 

6. Lamb kidneys. 



120 




Plate No. 21 



Questions and Answers 

1. Q. Why IS meat tough? 

A. There are three reasons for meat being tough. 
First : Because it is not sufficiently aged. Aging is necessary 
to allow the meat fiber time to relax and give the animal 
heat time to leave the meat. "Second : Because it has not been 
properly cooked. Use the fireless cooker whenever possi- 
ble, and the result will always be tender meat. Third : Be- 
cause the animal is too old. 

2. Q. Why does meat turn dark? 

A. The surface of meat out of cold storage l)ecomes 
dark when exposed to draft, wind or heat. When cut meat 
has been in contact with other pieces of meat for any 
length of time it has a tendency to turn dark. Meat which 
has an extremely dark color all through the fiber is the 
result of an overheated or excited animal just before 
slaughtering. 

3. Q. Why is some meat soft and flabby? 

A. This may be because the animal has not been killed 
for sufficient length of time to allow the animal heat to 
leave the meat, or it may be due to the feed. For an exam- 
ple : Alfalfa-fed Pork never becomes firm, even after it has 
been placed in cold storage. On the other hand, corn or 
grain-fed Pork sets very quickh^ and becomes firm and 
solid. Skimmed-milk Veal, or calves that have been fed 
upon skimmed milk, or grass, will, as a usual thing, be 
tough and poor, and the meat is very seldom firm and solid. 
Meat without fat cannot become firm. Therefore, if there 

121 



is no suet or fat on the kidneys and surface of the meat it 
will invariably he soft and flabby. 

4. Q. Why does some Beef have a very white suet, and 
other Beef a rich yellow? 

A. Meat from any breed of cattle, other than Jersey, 
will have a clean, white suet, while Jersey stock you will 
always find the suet yellow in color. Suet or fat is one 
important thing to look for in a choice piece of meat, 
whether steak or roast, for each cut of meat should contain 
suiBcient fat of its own in which to cook it properly. Meat 
which has not sufificient fat of its own, unless. a substitute 
is added, will be dry and tasteless. In other words, Beef 
should be cooked in Beef suet, Pork with Pork fat, and 
Lamb or Mutton with fat of its own kind. 

5. Q. How can I select a tender piece of meat? 

A. In order to be tender the meat should have been 
killed for a sui^cient length of time. When selecting a 
piece of cut meat from the display cases, a compact fiber, 
together with a rich color, are the best indications of a 
tender piece of meat, as these are the signs that the meat 
is well aged. When selecting a piece of meat from the 
block, the most reliable indication that it is tender, or well 
aged, is the presence of mildew on any portion of the meat 
which has not been faced to cut from. Mildew does not 
mean a slimy appearance. Meat with a slimy appearance 
is not fit for food, neither is meat having a sour odor, as 
these are indications that the meat is spoiled. 

6. Q. Should steaks and chops be cut thick? 

A. In order to retain the juice and flavor, steaks and 
chops should be cut thick. Steaks and chops cut thin be- 
come dry and tasteless. 

122 



7. O. Are there any other steaks equal to porterhouse in 
quaHty? 

A. The cheaper cuts, such as shoulder steak, skirt 
steak and flank steak, are far superior to porterhouse in 
flavor, but because of the fact that porterhouse steak is an 
expensive cut people are led to believe that it is the superior 
steak. 

8. Q. What are the best cuts in Lamb, Veal and Pork 
for frying? 

A. The best, yet most economical, cuts for frying are 
the arm cuts of the shoulder of Lamb, Veal or Pork. 

9. O. What are the best and most economical cuts for 
Veal and Lamb stew? 

A. The breast, as this contains the soft bones which 
flavor the meat. 

10. O. What cut of the Lamb makes the best and most 
economical roast? 

A. The shoulder, with the blade removed, which leaves 
a pocket for filling with dressing, etc. 

11. Q. What cut of the Veal is the best and most econom- 
ical for roasting? 

A. The arm cut of the shoulder, or the shoulder with 
the blade removed, making a pocket for dressing, etc., are 
very good cuts for an economical roast. Slices of salt Pork 
should be laid on top of the meat, which adds greatly to 
the flavor of the Veal. 

12. Q. What cut of the Pork will make the best and most 
economical roast? 

A. Arm cut of the shoulder, or leg. 

123 



13. O. What is the most economical pot roast of Beef? 
A. The first or second cut of cross-rib, German pot 

roast, or chuck. 

14. Q. What is the most choice oven Beef roast? 
A. Prime rib rolled, or prime rib standing. 

15. Q. Are the roasts without bones more economical 
than those containing bones? 

A. They are not. You must pay for your share of 
bone. J ' 

16. Q. What is the most economical soup bone to buy for 
soup stock, and not for meat? 

A. The rump soup bone, or shoulder knuckle soup 
bone. " 

17. Q. Which is the most economical soup bone to buy 
for both soup stock and meat? 

A. The front shank soup bone. 

18. Q. Is it best to remove the entrails from Poultry as 
soon as they are killed or dressed? 

A. If they are to be hung in cold storage for any 
length of time before using, they should not be drawn until 
ready for use. 

19. Q. Is Fish fit for food when it is sticky? 

A. Under no circumstances whatever purchase Fish 
in this condition. 

20. O. How long is Pork fit for food after it has been 
killecT? 

A. It is not advisable to use Pork which has been in 
cold storage for a longer period than five days, under any 
consideration. 

124 



21. Q. How long" is Lamb fit for food after it has been 
killed? 

A. Under the best of cold storage conditions it is not 
fit for food after a period of fifteen days, unless it has been 
frozen. This I do not. advise. 

22. O. What is the best and most economical grease for 
frying? 

A. Cudahy's suetene. 

23. Q. A\'hat is the best and most economical grease for 
shortening- and pastry? 

A. Cndah3''s suetene. 

24. O. Should meat be washed in cold water before it is 
cooked ? 

A. Never wash any meat in cold water; always wipe 
with a damp cloth. 

25. Q. How can all meats be cooked in order to retain the 
juice? 

A. In the fireless cooker. 

26. Q. Is there any reason why meat should not be 
turned with a fork? 

A. There is one very important reason, and that is 
that by the use of a fork placed in the meat the juice is 
allowed to escape, thus causing the meat to shrink and 
become tough. 

27. O. How can tough meat be made tender? 

A. Roasts, etc., may be made tender by allowing to 
stand in vinegar over night. All meat may be cooked tend- 
er, where time permits the use of a fireless cooker. 

(•\/-r^^ «> ^ ^ ■ — ^- • 

125 



28. Q. What kind of cooking utensils are the best for 
pot roasting meat? 

A. The ahiminum ware. 

29. Q. When should meat be seasoned? 

A. Meats which are to be rolled in flour or bread, such 
as chops, liver, etc., should be seasoned before breading. 
Other meats such as roasts, steaks, stews, etc., should never 
be seasoned until nearly done. 

30. Q. How can meat be kept best without ice during the 
summer time? 

A. In two different ways. It may be removed from 
the paper and placed in a sack made of cheese cloth, after 
which it should be hung in a cool, shady place, where the 
air can circulate freely around it. Or it may be completely 
covered with common table salt. However, the salt should 
not be left on long enough to cure the meat. 

31. Q. How can salted meat be freshened? 

A. By soaking in fresh water from three to five hours, 
or over night, and then parboiled. 

32. Q. Why does Pork sometimes taste fishy? 

A. It is because it has been fed on alfalfa, and not 
because it has been fed on Fish. 

33. Q. Would you advise eating Pork during the summer 
months? 

A. No, I would not, under any circumstances, as Pork 
is a very filthy animal, and therefore susceptible to disease, 
especially during the warm weather. 

34. Q. What kind of meat is the best and'most econom- 
ical for Veal loaf? 

A. Veal loaf will have a much better flavor, and is a 

126 



great deal more economical, if made with meat from the 
Veal neck, shank or shoulder. By the use of equal propor- 
tions of Beef, Veal and Pork, the loaf will have a rich, juicy 
flavor, which is not possible when Veal is used alone. 

35. O. What is the best kind of meat to purchase for 
plain hamburger? 

A. It is not necessary to use round steak in order to 
have good hamburger. The first cut of the point, neck, or a 
nice lean shoulder piece will make very good hamburger 
steak. 

36. O. Which is the cheaper to buy, bulk lard or lard in 
bucket? 

A. It is, or should always be, much cheaper to furnish 
your own bucket and purchase the bulk lard ; for when 
buying lard which is already put up in buckets you must 
expect to pay for the pail. 

Z7 . Q. Are the liver, heart, tongues, tripe and brains fit 
for food? 

PLATE NO. 22 

A. All of the above mentioned parts of the animal are 
good to eat if you are absolutely sure that they are from 
a place where government inspected meat is handled. It 
is very important that you educate yourself so that you may 
know the different parts when you see them. Otherwise 
you may pay Veal liver price for Beef liver, and the price 
of Veal brains for Beef brains. 

38. O. Is accuracy in time and temperature essential in 
cooking meat? 

A. It is of the greatest importance. Meat when cooked 
too long will become dry and pull out of shape, causing 

127 



PLATE NO. 22 

1. Pork liver. (Note the 5 points in a whole Pork liver. 

The fiber or grain in Pork liver is always very coarse. 
And the color is always very dark; almost black.) 

2. Lamb liver. (Notice the two points to the Lamb liver). 

Lamb liver, however, is a very good substitnte for 
Veal liver if the price is in proportion. 

3. Veal liver. (Note its shape). The color is a light 

brown. 

4. Ox tongne. P)e sure it has the government inspection 

stamp on it before you buy it. 

5. Ox heart. I^ook for the inspection stamp on it also. If 

government inspected it will alwa_ys l)e cut open on 
one side. 

6. Lamb kidneys splits open read to fry or broil. 

7. \"eal heart. 



128 




Plate No. 22 



greater shrinkage. Too much heat, or not enough, will have 
a tendency to make the meat tough. 

39. Q. Are roasts already boned and rolled in the markets, 
as cheap as the roasts you have prepared to order? 

A. You must use your own judgment in this matter. 
A prime rib roast should never cost you more than 5c a 
pound more boned and rolled than it does with the rib in, 
and by purchasing a roast already rolled you will avoid 
buying two rough ends on your roast. It is much easier 
to cut a rolled roast any size, than to roll a one or two-rib 
roast so that it will have a smooth surface on both ends. 

40. Q. Does meat cooked with the bone in it have any 
advantage over that which is cooked without any bone? 

A. When meat is cooked with the bone in it there 
will be a much better flavor to the meat and considerably 
less shrinkage. 

41. y. Is there any advantage in paying cash? 

A. It is greatly to your advantage for you to pay cash. 
When paying cash it is only natural that you will buy more 
economically than if you were running an account. Also, 
there are many discounts given to the cash customer which 
the credit customer does not receive. And in paying cash 
you will have an advantage over the credit customer who 
must pay his part of the bookkeeper's salary, the amount 
paid the delivery boy, and the postage required for mailing 
his statement each month, as well as many other expenses 
attached to a credit basis of business. 

42. Q. At what age is Veal old enough to be used as meat? 
A. Veal less than six weeks old is not fit to eat, and 

Veal at the age of two months is considered very hard to 

129 



digest. Government inpsection will protect you from buy- 
ing Veal six weeks or less in age. 

43. Q. Does it pay to buy a roast just large enough for 
one meal ? 

A. It take no more fuel to cook a roast large enough 
for two meals than it does for one meal. And by purchasing 
a larger roast you will be able to obtain a better piece of 
meat, for you will have more choice, and there will be the 
convenience of having meat on hand ready to prepare on a 
moment's notice. 

44. Q. What cut shall T ask for when I desire a pot roast 
for guests ,or something exceptionally good in quality, 
regardless of price? 

A. The first cut of the rump, or the lobe of the loin, 
will make a very choice pot roast, but the rump has a waste 
of about 45% when cooked, and is therefore a very expen- 
sive roast. 

45. O. How shall I know that I have been given the cut 
of meat for which I asked ? 

A. If you will study the color plates given in this 
book you will soon learn to use practical terms for every 
cut of meat, and will recognize each cut when you see it on 
display. 

46. Q. Can I rely upon hamburger steak grotind at the 
market? 

A. If you will make a personal investigation of the 
back room and refrigerator, and will pay particular atten- 
tion to the appearance of the mill, etc., as I have suggested, 
you will be able to answer this question to your own satis- 
faction. If your market handles government inspected meat 
exclusively, everything is in your favor. 

130 



47. Q. What is the most reliable, yet economical, brand 
of canned meat to buy for picnics, camping, etc? 

A. The Rex brand put up by the Cudahy Packing 
Company, for this company has government inspection 
throughout its plant, and you are not required to pay an 
exorbitant price for fancy labels, etc. 

48. Q. Is there any economy in buying a ham shank? 

A. At the price of 14j4c to 15c per pound there is 
more value in a ham shank than in most any other piece of 
meat you could buy. 

Do not be afraid to look at the scales when your meat 
is being weighed, for they are there for your inspection, so 
that you may know that you are getting value received. 
Have a pair in your home. They are of more importance 
than a vacuum cleaner or an electric fan. 



131 



Diets and Dainties for the Sick Room 

Apple, baked Ice cream 

Apple, sauce Milk toast 

Beef tea Mutton broth 

Custard, baked Oysters, creamed 
Custard, baked rice Prunes, stewed 

Cereals Rhubarb sauce 

Eggs, poached Soups 

Gelatine Sherberts 
Ham string jelly 

Dishes, linen, tray, etc., should always be clean, and, 
in order to make it appear cheerful, flowers should be added. 

Three very essential things in connection with the sick 
room, are regularity to the minute when giving medicine, 
meals, and the care of the room ; quietness, plenty of fresh 
air, and the removal of all unpleasant things from the room, 
and the general expression of yourself or the nurse when 
entering the rooom. 

Regularity in giving the medicine is very important, 
on account of the fact that it is put up or prescribed to act 
for a period of so many minutes, or hours, with intervals 
to allow each separate dose time to do its work. Therefore, 
the patient's quick recovery largely depends on the effect 
of the medicine and the regularity with which it is given. 
The meals or nourishment should be given the same atten- 
tion. In the care of the room strict regulation should be 
given for the time of changing bed linen, washing or bathing 
the patient. All uncanny and undesirable things, such as 
bottles of medicine, trays with dishes from last meal, pic- 

132 



tures of war scenes and accidents, etc., should be removed 
from the room. There should be quietness in moving chairs, 
furniture, etc., around the rooms in other parts of the house, 
and there should be no slamming of doors, children crying 
or making unnecessary noises, loud talking, or anything 
that would have a tendency to annoy the sick one. You 
or the nurse, as you enter the room, should always have a 
pleasant expression and a word of cheerfulness, and, no 
matter how much we realize the true condition of the pa- 
tient, we should always tell them how much better they 
look. As we are only human, we all realize to some extent 
what effect the mind has over the body. No matter how 
well we feel, if four or five of our friends should meet us 
unexpectedly within an hour of each other and should tell 
us how badly we are looking, and if we did not know the 
motive back of their words, we should soon commence to 
think we are actually ill (mind over matter). When one 
is really sick it does not improve the physical condition 
to be told how badly one looks, or that one's fever is terri- 
bly high, or that one is getting so terribly thin, etc. All 
such things are not encouraging to one who has the time 
to lie in bed and think of their own condition, and especially 
is this true of one who is prone to cross bridges before 
coming to them. 

In cases of severe sickness sufficient to require the ser- 
vices of a physician, never give any nourishment without 
first consulting the doctor. 

Under this head there are many appetizing recipes for 
the diet of the sick room. The tray should always be made 
to look as neat and tempting as possible. A clean napkin, 
clean silver-ware ,and just a little flower on the tray. Not 
quantities, but a small amount of the things the patient likes 
l)est, and may have through the doctor's permission. If 
the sick one can eat more, they will appreciate a second 

133 



dish rather than to have too much stacked up on the tray 
at once. 

The suggestions contained herein are for food which 
is easily digested and yet simple and easy to prepare. Mrs. 
R. E. Wick, who has had many years of experience as a 
nurse, has given these many recipes for the diet kitchen, 
care and feeding of babies, and numerous other suggestions 
that will prove helpful and save work, expense and worry. 
Practical experience in anything is worth much more than 
theory. 

Learn to rely upon your own judgment, and you will 
soon see that you have accomplished things that you once 
thought were impossible. "Necessity is the mother of in- 
vention." Confidence in your own ability to do things will 
be the source of economy, for then you will judge for 
yourself. Judging for yourself you will protect your own 
interests. 



134 



Time Tables 

For Broiling, Roasting and Frying 

Steak, 1 inch thick (rare) 7 to 9 minutes (done) 11 to 

12 min. 

Steak ( 2 inches thick (rare) 9 to 11 min .(done) 13 to 
17 min. 

Medium done : 

Mutton chops 8 to 10 min. 

/^ Spring- Chicken 22 min. 

Pork chops or steak 10 min. 

Veal chops or steak 10 to 14 min. 

Veal chops breaded 14 to 16 min. 

Pork sausage link 10 min. 

Pork sausage in balls 12 min. 

Hamburger steak, thin cakes, 5 min. 

Hamburger steak, thick balls, 12 min. 

Roasts and Boiling Meat 

Prime rib roast, sirloin roast, 1st cut rump, 13 to 15 
min. per lb. 

Center and last cut rump, cross rib, and chuck roast, 

13 to 15 min. 

Leg of Mutton, well done. 15 min. per lb. 

Leg of Laml), well done 13 min. per lb. 

Loin of Mutton, well done. 13 min. per lb. 

Mocked Duck, or stuffed shoulder Lamb, 17 min. per lb. 

Stuffed shoulder Veal, 25 min. per lb. 

135 



Pork or Veal roast, thick roasts from leg or shoulder, 
30 min. per lb. 

Boiled or baked Chicken, 18 min. per lb. 

Turkey roasted in roasting pan, 3^^ hrs. or about 11 
min. per lb. 

Fish 

Small Fish, 6 to 8 min. 

Fish sliced medium thin, 12 to 15 min. 

Shad, Salmon, and King Fish, 12 to 20 min. 

Ham 

Boiled or braized, 35 min. per lb. 



136 



What You Should Weigh to be in Normal Health 

Average Weight of Boys 

5 45 lbs. 

6 50 lbs. 11 72 lbs. 

7 53 lbs. 12 78 lbs. 

8 57 lbs. 13 85 lbs. 

9 62 lbs. 14 93 lbs. 

10 67 lbs. 15 105 lbs. 

Average Weight for Girls 

5 40 lbs. 11 69 lbs. 

6 43 lbs. 12 78 lbs. 

7 47 lbs. 13 89 lbs. 

8 52 lbs. 14 98 lbs. 

9 57 lbs. 15 105 lbs. 

10 62 lbs. 

Average Weight of Men 



5 ft. 


1 


in. 


120 lbs. 


5 ft. 


8 in. ... 


154 lbs. 


5 ft. 


2 


in. 


125 lbs. 


5 ft. 


9 in. ... 


159 lbs. 


5 ft. 


3 


in. 


130 lbs. 


5 ft. 


10 in. ... 


164 lbs. 


5 ft. 


4 


in. 


135 lbs. 


5 ft. 


11 in. ... 


169 lbs. 


5 ft. 


5 


in. 


141 lbs. 


6 ft. 




175 lbs. 


5 ft. 


6 


in. 


145 lbs. 


6 ft. 


1 in. .. 


181 lbs. 


5 ft. 


7 


in. 


150 lbs. 


6 ft. 


2 in. .. 


188 lbs. 








Average Weight 


: of Women 




4 ft. 


10 


in. 


108 lbs. 


5 ft. 


5 in. ... 


133 lbs. 


4 ft. 


11 


in. 


112 lbs. 


5 ft. 


6 in. .. 


137 lbs, 


5 ft. 






114 lbs. 


5 ft. 


7 in. .. 


142 lbs. 


5 ft. 


1 


in. 


118 lbs. 


5 ft. 


8 in. .. 


146 lbs. 


5 ft. 


3 


in. 


126 lbs. 


5 ft. 


9 in. .. 


150 lbs. 


5 ft. 


2 


in. 


123 lbs. 


5 ft. 


10 in. .. 


154 lbs 


5 ft. 


4 


in. 


129 lbs. 


5 ft. 


11 in. .. 


158 lbs, 



137 



Things of Importance in the Kitchen 

For success when usinj^- recipes always be accurate in 
your measurements. 

Never use Bonami or Sapolio on your aluminum ware. 

Always wash and clean your cooking utensils after each 
meal and see that they are tlioroly dried before putting 
away. 

Have hooks and nails upon which to hang pots, kettles 
and frying pans, as pulling them out from under one an- 
other scratches and wears them out. 

Always keep a clean quart or half gallon glass jar, with 
lop on, in the pantry, in which to save bread crumbs, as 
they are much cheaper and luuch better for breading chops. 
Fish, Oysters or any other kind of meat, than anything" 
else, and ke])t in this manner will stay good for weeks at 
a time. 

Always have spice cans marked or labeled very plainly, 
as thro mistake you may ruin a whole meal, and it will cost 
much more than it would have to have purchased the cans 
already labeled, or to have taken time to label them your- 
self. 

Never keep medicine in a spice cabinet near bottles 
of extract. 

Take a regular inventory once a month of your extracts 
and spices, as they are not expensive, and by their absence 
may cause you much inconvenience at the moment you 
desire something for a recipe. 

Never be without a wooden chopping bowl. And be- 
cause of the fact that the meat grinder is galvanized finished 

138 



do not run vegetables, etc., through it, if they contain acid. 
This precaution may save you from ptomaine poisoning. 

Never stick a fork into your meat or Poultry while 
turning it during cooking, as this lets the juice out and 
makes the meat dry and tough. Use a pastry knife or any 
instrument that will not make or prick holes in the meat. 

Season all meats while cooking, with the exception of 
liver, breaded chops, etc. Never add seasoning until nearly 
done. Liver, chops and such meat which is covered with 
flour or bread crumbs, must necessarily be seasoned before 
prepared in this way. 



SHOULDERS, LAMB LEGS, LAMB AND VENISON 

To add greatly to the flavor rub the platter or plate 
upon which the meat is to be placed with just a pod of 
garlic. It is not necessary to cut any of the garlic into the 
meat. The juice on the platter will steam into the meat 
and give it a very fine flavor. 

For leg of Lamb, try placing a nice ripe tomato on top 
of the roast while baking. This also adds much to its flavor. 

If you dress your own Poultry, before taking the en- 
trails out wash thoroughly with good clean soap suds, then 
rinse in cold water until all the soap is washed off. Try 
this some time and see if you notice any difference in the 
flavor of your Poultry. 



COOKING AN OLD TURKEY 

If there is any doubt in your mind as to the age of the 
Turkey, or whether or not it is tough, take your wash boiler, 
place a lard can or any object in the center of the boiler. 

139 



Fill the boiler up within 3 inches of the top of the lard can, 
or whatever you have to hold the Turkey up out of the 
water. This may also be done by placing a wire across to 
each side of the boiler and hooking on the outside, anything 
to keep the fowl out of the water. Steam in this way for 
about two hours, or three and one-half hours, depending 
on the size of the bird — 2^ hours is sufficient for a bird 
weighing 10 to 12 pounds. After you have steamed the 
Turkey for this length of time, put it in the oven and bake 
for one hour, and you will have a nice tender Turkey, and 
it will have all of its flavor as well. 

When baking berry pies, in order to keep the juice from 
running over the edge of the pan and gumming up the 
oven, make a small tube, the size of a fork handle out of 
paper. Cut a hole in the top crust of the pie, right in the 
center, and insert the paper tube. You will find that your 
pie will not run over when the fruit commences to heat 
inside, as it would have done had you not used the tube. 

Never knead pie dough longer than is necessary to 
make it stick together, as kneading makes it tough. Use 
nothing but Cudahy's Suetene or Cornett salad oil, for 
shortening for pie crusts, and you will always have nice 
pies. 

To make garden peas and string beans retain their 
natural color, add a jMUch of baking soda just as they com- 
mence to boil. 



TO RETAIN THE FLAVOR OF MEAT 

Never wash meat oft" in cold water under the faucet, 
or in a pan of water. Always wash with a damp cloth. 
The cold water opens up the pores and lets out the juice, 
and thus makes the meat tough and dry. 

140 



FRYING STEAKS AND CHOPS 

Always have the grease and pan smoking hot before 
you put the meat in, and do not put intoo much meat at a 
time, so as not to cool the grease. 



ROASTS AND POT ROASTS 

Sear the roast in an iron skillet or frying pan before 
starting to roast, and then baste it well with flour until 
brown on both sides. This makes the roast tender and 
keeps all the juice and flavor in the meat. 



LAMB TONGUES JELLED 

The fact that Lamb tongues are much cheaper than 
Beef tongues, and yet are just as good in quality, should 
make them a favorite substitute. 

Wash six Lamb tongues in cold water. Put into a 
small aluminum kettle and cover with water. Boil about 
1 hour and 35 minutes. Take from the boiling water and 
peel the thin white skin ofif. Split the tongues lengthwise 
and place in jar. Dissolve Yi package of gelatine in 1 pint 
of water from the tongues. Pour over the tongues and set 
away to cool. When firm they can be sliced in loaf shape, 
and will make a delicious summer cold meat. 



LAMB TONGUE WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

Boil six Lamb tongues. Peel and place in cold water to 
cool. Make a sauce of two or three large tomatoes. Boil 
them or stew until a thick mush. Run through a colander. 
To the pulp add ]/% tsp. red pepper, salt and thicken with 

141 



just enough flour to make a stiff sauce. Just a few grams 
of pulverized garlic adds wonderfully to the flavor. 

Serve the sauce on the tongues while they are hot, or 
it may be served on the cold tongues if desired. 

LIVER 

In selecting either Beef or Veal liver always note the 
color, for it is by the color that you can best judge its qual- 
ity. If it is "ot a brownish red it is a very good indication 
that it is old and tough, especially if dark black. 

LIVER AND ONIONS 

IK' lbs. Veal liver sliced thin. Season with salt and 
pepper and roll in flour. Fry until the surface has a rather 
hard crust. Remove the liver and put in the warming oven. 
Slice one or two onions and have enough hot suetene ready 
to cover the bottom of the frying pan. When the onions 
are tender, not brittle, place the liver in another pan and 
pour the onions over it. Let simmer slowly 5 minutes. 

FRIED LIVER AND SPANISH SAUCE 

Fry the li^•er rolled in flour. Season. Make a sauce of 
1 large tomato, 1 large onion, 2 green peppers with seeds 
removed, and 1 tbs. vinegar. Let the sauce cook about 15 
minutes slowly, then pour over the liver. Serve while hot. 

LIVER CAKES 

Boil 1>2 lbs. liver. Let cool, then run through meat 
grinder. Have ready 1 pint corn meal mush. Mix liver 
and corn meal. vSet away to cool, and then mould in small 

142 



thin cakes like potato cakes. When ready to serve for 
breakfast, sprinkle with flour and season with salt and pep- 
per. Fry in hot suetene until a nice crisp brown. Serve 
each piece with a slice of fried bacon on it. This makes 
a nice breakfast dish and is very economical. 

LAMB LIVER AND COUNTRY GRAVY 

Have the liver cut meditun thin, to assure being" well 
done when cooked. Roll in flour and fry. Make a gravy 
of 1 tbs. flour, ^ tbs. suetene, melted in pan in which liver 
was fried, and add enough milk to make thick gravy. Pour 
over the liver. 

MUSHROOMS FRESH 

\\ ash and clean the mushrooms thoroughly. Boil in 
an aluminum kettle with a piece of solid silver, such as a 
spoon or a piece of money, for 30 minutes. If the silver 
appears black or dark, do not use any of the mushrooms. 
This precaution will avoid any danger of poison. 

To serve as a vegetable without meat, roll in flour and 
fry in pan of Cudahy's suetene. To serve on steaks, etc., 
cut into very small cubes, put into small utensil and pour 
Sherry wine on them enough to keep them from sticking 
to the kettle. Then boil very slowly until the alcohol 
catches fire and burns the liquid down low in the kettle. 
Make a thick sauce of flour and water, or milk. Stir in the 
mushrooms and serve on steaks, fowl or game. If you do 
not care to use the wine, a sauce of just flour and water, 
or milk, may be used. 

CROWN ROAST OF LAMB 

The crown of Lamb is put up from the rib Lamb chops. 
Frenched or peeled half way down the chop. But, instead 

143 



of being cut into chops, they are left in pieces consisting 
of 6 or 8 ribs to the side, and two sides or sets of 6 or 8 
each are sewed together, making a crown-shaped roast. 
Then the scraped ends of the chops are interwoven or 
trimmed with thin narrow ribbons of back fat, which are 
interwoven or run in and out around the dressed ends of the 
chops. In the center of the roast the butcher most always 
places a Lamb's heart and fills around the center of the 
inside of the roast with ground Lamb shoulder, or if pre- 
ferred. Pork sausage. The little paper frills are placed on 
the ends of each chop just before it is placed on the table. 
This makes a very attractive roast of Lamb. Served with 
either green garden peas or asparagus tips. But remember 
that this is not an economical roast. 



SADDLE OF LAMB 

The two loins of Lamb in one piece, only sawed down 
through the center, and is served with mint sauce or green 
peas. Should be roasted the same as the leg of Lamb. It is 
very expensive, due to the fact that it is hind-quarter meat. 



MOCK DUCK 

vShoulder of Lamb boned and the blade taken out and 
webbed to resemble the Duck's tail. The front shank is 
left on to resemble the Duck's bill. If this is put up by a 
competent butcher it makes a very nice and attractive roast 
of Lamb, and is much cheaper than the crown roast or 
saddle of Lamb. Served with dressing and garden peas it 
makes a most delicious, yet economical, dinner. 

144 



BREAST OF LAMB 

The breast of Lamb is one of the cheapest cuts. 

It may be used as stew, or you may have a pocket put 
in it to fill with bread dressing. Take dry bread, soak in 
water, squeeze out water as soon as bread is soft. Season 
with salt, pepper and sage. Fill the pocket with the dress- 
ing and bake 30 minutes to the pound. 



VEAL ROAST 

3)/2 lbs. arm cut of the shoulder of Veal. Wipe with 
damp cloth. Dredge well with flour. Sear well in hot pan 
before putting in the oven to roast. Then place about 3 
medium thick slices salt Pork on top of the roast and baste 
well every 20 minutes. Season with salt and pepper while 
cookino'. 



CHUCK OF VEAL— ROAST 

3 to 3y2 lbs. cut of the shoulder of Veal. Ask for the 
chuck cut. Have the butcher slip the shoulder blade. Leave 
this open for pocket. Stuff with bread dressing and cook 
same as the arm cut. Season with salt and pepper while 
cooking. 



STUFFED BREAST OF VEAL 

23^ or 3 lbs. breast of Veal. Have a pocket made in 
the breast. Stuff with bread dressing, and bake same as 
breast of Lamb. This is very economical, and yet is as nice 
as Chicken, because of the fact that the little soft bones 
in the breast give it much flavor. 

145 



VEAL LOAF 

Get 2 lbs. of Veal from the shank or neck of the Veal. 
Have the butcher bone it out and grind it. For every 1|4 
lbs. solid meat add y^, lb. salt Pork. Grind all together. Mix 
into the ground meat one or two eggs, 1 cup ground bread 
crumbs or cracker meal, Yz tsp. ground sage, J/^ tsp. pepper 
and 1 tsp. salt. Mix thoroughly with the meat. Place in 
pan greased with suetene and bake 4.^ minutes, if baked 
in deep bread pan. This is nice served with tomato sauce 
or cream gravy. Or is very nice served plain. 

VEAL ROLL 

Boil 2 Veal shanks and save the liquor in which the 
meat was cooked. As soon as the meat has cooled grind it 
and season with salt, pepper and one onion minced very 
fine. Boil 2 or 3 eggs hard. Place these in center of meat 

and cover with another layer of meat until the pan is filled. 
Pour over this ^ cup of the liquor, and set in refrigerator to 
cool until firm. When cold slice and serve on platter gar- 
nished with parsley. This makes a nice cold lunch for sum- 
mer. If you wish to reduce the cost of the meat Yz, Beef 
from the front shank or neck may be used instead of all 
Veal. 

PRESSED VEAL 

Get Veal shanks and Veal necks with the bone in. 

Boil and remove from the bone. Shred and place in 
small sack made from a piece of flour sack. Season the meat 
with salt and pepper. Place the meat in the sack and tie 
the end so the meat cannot come out. Place in deep pan, 
pour some of the liquor over the meat and let stand over 
night. When cool place in the ice box to jell. 

146 



Two or three Pigs feet boiled with the Veal and the 
meat peeled from the bone, all meat and the skins added to 
the Veal, makes a better jell and adds greatly to the flavor. 

VEAL SWEETBREADS 

Get the Veal sweetbreads. Clean all the skin off of 
them. Let soak from 1 to 2 hours in salt water. Remove, 
wash and lay on cloth to drain and dry. Beat up 2 eggs. 
Dip the sweetbreads in the egg and roll in cracker meal. 
Fry in hot suetene same as Oysters. Serve with cream 
sauce. 

MINCED SWEETBREADS ON TOAST 

Boil one lb. sweetbreads until dry, or until they will 
not feel soft inside when pricked with a fork. Let stand 
until cool. Grind and season with salt and pepper. Mix 
them into a sauce made of one well beaten egg, one cup milk 
and one tablespoon flour. Boil until thick and pour over the 
sweetbreads. Heat the meat and sauce together and have 
ready buttered toast. Cover each piece of toast with the 
sweetbreads and serve while hot. 

A couple of slices of boiled ham adds greatly to the 
flavor if ground with the sweetbreads. 

SUETENE RAISED DOUGHNUTS 

1 pint melted suetene 

2 eggs well beaten 
1 cup sugar 

^ cup warm sweet milk 

^2 cup warm water 

^ yeast cake 

Enough flour to make thick as bread dough. 

147 



Place near stove or warm place to raise. Let stand 6 
hours. 

Before kneading add % tsp. salt and >^ tsp. soda. 

Knead out to the thickness of biscuits. 

Cut into doughnut size. Have kettle of smoking hot 
suetene ready. Drop in and fry until crisp brown. Sprinkle 
with powdered sugar after they have cooled. 



HOT CAKES WITHOUT EGGS OR MILK 

1/^ cups flour 

Level tsp. baking powder 

Pinch of salt 

y^ cup sugar 

2 tbs. melted suetene 

Water enough to make a batter. 

Whip very briskly for five or ten minutes with a spoon 
or egg-beater. Have the griddle good and hot. Grease 
griddle with suetene or a bacon rind. 

If the cakes do not brown, add just a little more sugar. 
If they seem a little tough, add more shortening or suetene. 
After you have learned to make these you will have no 
other kind of hot cakes for breakfast. 



POTATO PAN CAKES 

Wash, clean and peel 3 average-sized potatoes. Grate 
and add to 3 well-beaten eggs ^ cup flour, 1 cup sweet milk, 
% tsp. salt, 2 tsp. baking powder. Fry with suetene or Cor- 
nett salad oil. 



148 



ORIGINAL CAKE OF MRS. SMITH'S 

2 eggs 

1^ cups sugar 

2 tsp. baking powder 

2^ cups flour 

1 cup cold water. 

Cream the sugar and yolks with 2 heaping tbs. suetene. 
Beat whites of eggs separate and add last. Bake in three 
layers and use any fayorite filling. Add flavor.. 



FARMERS' CAKE 

Dissolve a level teaspoon of bicarbonate of soda in 2 
tablespoons warm water. Add a half cup molasses. Mix 
and add very quickly 1 cup sour cream, 1 cup sugar, 1 tbs. 
cinnamon, ly^ cups pastry flour, and beat for about 5 min- 
utes. Then stir in 1 cup seeded raisins that have been 
dredged in Yz cup flour. Bake slowly for 60 minutes. Make 
filling to cover with whites of two eggs, chopped nuts and 
vanilla flavoring, which should be cooked the same as boiled 
icing. 

WALNUT CAKE 

2 cups flour 

2 tbs. Cudahy Suetene 

2 tsp baking powder 
1 cup sugar 

y\ cup chopped walnuts 

3 yolks and 2 whites of eggs 

Beat and flavor with vanilla or lemon. 
Beat whites of eggs and add last. 



149 



POTATO CAKE 

(By Mrs. C. A. Spooler) 

2 cups sugar 
1 cup butter 

1 cup mashed potatoes 
Yi cup sweet milk 

4 eggs 

2 cups flour 

4 tbs. grated chocolate dissolved in ^ cup of milk and 
let cook few minutes 
1 tsp. cloves 
1 tsp. nutmeg 
1 tsp. cinnamon 
1 tesp. vanilla 
^ tsp. baking powder 

1 tsp. soda dissolved in little hot water and added last 
1 cup chopped walnuts 
1 cup raisins. 

In most any cake recipe Cudahy's suetene may be used 
instead of butter. 



ONE EGG CAKE 

(By Mrs. R. E. Wick) 
1 cup flour 

1 tbs. Cornett salad oil 
1 cup sugar 
1 cup sweet milk 
1 ^^^ yolk and white 
1 tsp. baking powder 
1 tsp. flavoring, vanilla or pineapple 
y% tsp. salt. 

150 



ECONOMY PORK CAKE 

1 lb. thick clear solid fat Pork 

2j^ lbs. raisins 

1 lb. currants 

1 pint molasses 

1 cup brown sugar 

Y\ lb. citron 

1 tsp. each allspice, cinnamon and mace 

1 pint boiling water 

1 grated nutmeg 

1 tsp. baking soda 

1 cup chopped walnuts. 

Grind the fat Pork through meat grinder with the very 
fine plate. Do this twice at least. Pour boiling water over 
the Pork. Add other ingredients, with the exception of 
raisins and walnuts. Add the nuts last. Use the seeded 
raisins. Chop citron in small pieces. Use enough flour to 
make a stiff dough. Bake in deep bread pan for 1^ hours. 

If you are fond of brandy flavor, wet a cloth and roll 
the cake in it as soon as it has become cold. Then roll it 
in a heavy cloth and put away in a drawer. This cake 
becomes better with age. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS 

Make a pie crust of 2 cups flour 
Yz cup Cudahy's suetene 
A pinch of salt. 

Add just enough of water, a little at a time, to make 
the dough. Care must be taken not to use too much water 
or the crust will be tough. 

Roll out dough in size to cover the peeled apples. 

Core each apple, make a filling of chopped walnuts and 

151 



fill each apple with 1 tsp. chopped nuts. Cover the nuts 
with Cudahy's suetene or butter, cinnamon and sugar, and 
roll each apple in a piece of the crust. Place them in a 
baking pan, large end of the core down. Care must be 
taken to grease the baking pan, so the apples will not stick 
to it. Bake for 30 minutes in hot oven. 
Serve with vanilla sauce or cream. 

APPLE PIE 

This recipe for crust will answer for all pies. Only in 
cream or custard pies just one crust is used instead of a 
double crust. 

One-half lb. Cudahy's suetene. This is much better 
than lard for shortening. 1 lb. or 1 quart flour sifted. 2 
tsp. baking powder. Salt, 1 tsp. Just enough water to 
make a soft dough. Do not knead pie dough, or it will be 
tough. Flour the bread board and roll out thin. Place 
one crust on bottom of pan. Fill with fresh sliced apples, 
cut in crescent shape, and put on top of apples Yz cup sugar 
and sprinkle with cinnamon. Then place top crust. Bake 
20 to 30 minutes in moderate oven. 

For berry pies make a small cylinder of paper and insert 
in center of top crust. In this way your pies will never 
over run the sides of the pan and burn in the oven. 

VEAL CROQUETTES 

Boil the Veal shanks, neck or shoulder, until very well 
done. Then run through meat grinder or chop very fine. 
Season with salt and pepper and mince fine some fresh 
celery. Mix. Make cream gravy of flour, butter and milk. 
Pour over the Veal and have ready cracker crumbs and roll 
into small croquettes. Let stand until cold. Then beat 

152 



two eggs, roll croquettes in the eggs and cracker crumbs. 
Have ready a kettle of Cudahy's suetene or Rex pure lard, 
very hot. Drop into this the croquettes and fry until brown. 

BISCUIT DUMPLINGS 

One quart flour, 1 tsp. salt, 2 heaping tsp. baking pow- 
der, 2 tbs. suetene, milk enough to make a soft dough. 

Roll out, cut and bake in quick ove". 

Then have ready the broth or gruel of Chicken, Veal or 
Beef. Thicken with just enough flour to make the broth 
milk grey. Lay biscuits on top of meat to be served and 
pour gravy over all. 

DROP DUMPLINGS 

Two cups flour, 2 tsp. baking powder, 3/2 tsp. salt, just 
enough water to mix to a stifif dough. Drop into broth and 
cover. Cook twenty minutes. 

NOODLES 

Beat well together the yolk and white of one egg. Then 
add a pinch of salt, 2 tsp. milk or water. Then mix in 
enough flour to make a very stiff dough. Roll out and cut 
in small diamond shaped squares. Drop into the meat broth 
and cook 20 minutes. 

BRAIZED BEEF, VEAL OR LAMB 

Get a 5 lb. cross rib or rump roast. Have the butcher 
bone it for you. Wash with a damp cloth and sear well on 
both sides until real brown. In a baking roaster or iron 
spider slice 2 peeled onions, 2 turnips, 3 carrots, and add a 
small bunch of sweet herbs, 1 tsp. salt j^ tsp. white pepper, 

153 



and a dash of red pep])er. On the top of the vegetables and 
spice place the roast. Add to the pan 2 teacups boiling 
water. Cover pan or kettle and roast in the oven about 3 
hours. Add more boiling water every 20 minutes, or when 
needed. When meat is soft and tender, place on hot plat- 
ter, strain the gravy and thicken. Serve separately, or on 
top of meat, if desired. 

MOTHER'S BOSTON BAKED BEANS 

Soak about 1 quart of white beans over night. In the 
morning pour off the water and add fresh water and boil 
beans for about one hour, or until they are just tender 
enough for the skin to break easily. A little soda, about 1 
tsp., added to the water in which the beans are parboiled, 
will help to give them a better flavor when baked. 

After they have been parboiled, place them in a col- 
lander until thoroughly drained. Place the beans in earthen 
baking pot. Bury in the center of the beans ^ lb. salt Pork 
cut in slices about ^ inch thick. Then mix thoroughly 1 
tsp. salt, 2 tbs. molasses, 2 tbs. brown sugar, dissolve Yi 
tsp. dry mustard in 1 cup of boiling water, and add to beans. 
Place one or two slices of salt Pork on top of Beans. Add 
more water occasionally, if necessary. Let bake about 10 
to 12 hours. Just before time to remove, take cover from 
jar, so they may brown on top. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE FOR ROAST DUCK OR 
TURKEY 

One quart cranberries, 2 cups sugar, 3^ pint water. 
Boil and put through collander. Put into moulds or cups. 
Set away to cool. As cranberries are tart, they will jell 
very easily, and will keep for weeks. 

154 



SUET PUDDING 

2y2 cups flour 

2 cups currants 

1 cup finely chopped kidney suet 

1 cup molasses 

1 cup sweet milk 

1 tsp. soda 

\y\ tsp. good baking' powder. 

Steam about 4 hours. 

PLUM PUDDING 

Yi. lb. raisins 

Yz lb. currants 

Yz lb. suet 

Yi lb. bread crumbs 

5 ozs. mixed orange and lemon peel 

Y2 lb. flour 

Yi lb. brown sugar 

Y2 cup molasses 

2 tbs. jam 

Y2 tsp. salt 

Juice of one lemon 

2 oz. extract almonds 

1 tsp. nutmeg 

1 tsp. cinnamon 

Y2 tsp. cloves 

1 tbs. brandy. 

Boil about 5 hours. 

HORSERADISH PICKLES 

Cut into halves or quarters 2 dozen cucumbers. Sprinkle 
them thoroughly with salt. Let stand over night. Wash 

155 



off the salt in the morning and take one gallon vinegar, one 
cup grated horseradish, one-half cup dry mustard, and one 
cup salt, add one cup sugar to this mixture, then place cu- 
cumbers in crock and cover vvith vinegar, etc. Place a 
weight on top, and let stand three or four days. Do not 
cook them at all. 



TOMATO CATSUP 

Thirty large ripe tomatoes and 4 large onions. Wash 
and cut up in pieces size of average small tomato. Put in 
kettle and let boil until all the pulp is soft. Take from stove 
and strain through a collander. Then place strained juice 
on fire again and add lj/2 cups vinegar, 1 cup sugar, 2 tbs. 
cinnamon, 1 tsp. cloves, 1 tsp. red pepper and Y^ tsp. black- 
pepper. Let boil down until it becomes thick, then seal in 
bottles well corked, and dip the corked end of the bottle in 
paraffin. 



TARTAR SAUCE 

For Boiled and Baked Fish 

Select a nice large onion, 3 or 4 sour pickles and enough 
parsley to make a heaping tablespoon, after it is chopped. 

Chop the onions, pickles and parsley very fine. Mix 
together. Have ready some mayonnaise dressing. When 
the onions, pickles and parsley are all chopped, mix them 
into the mayonnaise. 

Serve a thin covering on each slice of Fish. This adds 
wonderfully to the taste and flavor of Fish. 



156 



TOMATO SAUCE 

For Boiled Tongue, Short Ribs of Beef, Breaded Breast of 
Lamb and Veal 

Select 3 nice ripe tomatoes. Peel and cut up in small 
pieces. Cut into small cubes 1 large onion and 1 green pep- 
per. Put in small kettle and allow to come to a boil. Then 
add 2 tsp. sugar, Yz tsp. cinnamon, a pinch of salt, and a 
small sprinkle of red pepper, also 1 very small crescent of 
garlic. Allow the sauce to boil until it becomes thick. This, 
served on the above-mentioned meat while warm, adds 
much to the flavor, and is very nice for cold meats also. 

TAMALES 

Spanish tamales are made the same as Texas tamales. 
with the exception that in Spanish tamales the meat is 
shredded instead of ground, as in the Texas tamales, and 
an olive is placed in the center of each. 

Recipe : 

Put to soak in cold water the corn husks to be used. 
•Get 3 lbs. Beef neck boned or 4 lbs. flank meat. Cook 
until tender. Arrange to have about 3 quarts of broth when 
the meat is done. Remove the meat and make a thick mush, 
using white corn meal. Have ready 8 large onions, 2 or 3 
small pieces of garlic, 5 red Chile peppers, and cook slowly 
for about 2 hours. 

Grind meat and tomatoes, etc., through meat grinder. 
Mix thoroughly the meat and tomatoes, etc. Then spread 
thin layer of corn meal on husk, and then filling of meat 
in center. Add as many husks on the outside of this center 
one as necessary. Each outside husk added should be filled 
with the corn meal only. Tie each end securely. Then 
steam for 2 hours. 

157 



CHICKEN TAMALES 

As Made in Mexico 

Two quarts yellow dried corn. Boil in water mixed 
with j/ lime. When cooked well done wash several times 
in cold water. Then grind the corn very fine. The regular 
corn meal can be used if you do not care to grind the corn. 

Boil tw^o large hens until soft enough to shred. Then 
cut in small pieces. Mix with the corn meal enough of the 
broth from the Chickens to make the meal a soft mush. Add 
1/^ cups Rex pure lard. Season with salt and knead thor- 
oughly. Take 4 red peppers, remove the seeds. Boil until 
very soft. Then grind the peppers very fine. Grind ^ head 
of garlic with the peppers. Chop fine one large onion and 
boil or stew it in l^/^ tbs. of pure Rex lard. Just before 
removing from fire brown the onion in level tbs. of flour. 
Now add to the chopped Chicken the garlic, pepper, onion, 
y^, cup seeded raisins, a cup of green olives, salt and red 
pepper to suit taste. Have the corn husks washed and 
soaked ready for use. Cover a leaf with the corn meal, 
then a tablespoon of the Chicken mixture. Tie each end 
well and put in steamer. Steam for 1^ hours. 

Veal makes a splendid substitute for Chicken in this 
recipe. 



MEXICAN CHILE CON CARNE 

\y2 lbs. lean Beef neck chopped or ground through 
coarse plate. Sear it until quite brown. Cut in small cubes 
2 onions, 2 tomatoes, Yi lb. suet. 1 crescent of garlic, and 
season with salt, pepper, 1 tsp. Chile powder, and 1 tsp. 
vinegar. Pour in 3 pints hot water and let cook slowly ^ 
of an hour. Thicken with 1 tbs. flour. 

158 



MEXICAN BEANS 

Put to soak the night before 1 pint red beans. When 
cleaned free from grit and dirt, boil and scrape the meal or 
jell from 5 large red peppers. Leave seeds in from 1 pepper 
onl}'. Boil a small ham shank with the beans. While cook- 
ing- add 3 ripe tomatoes. 3 chopped onions that have been 
fried in pure Rex lard, >< tsp. salt and a dash of paprika. 

ENCHILADAS 
As Made in Douglas, Arizona 

Chile sauce to be made as follows: 

Remove the seeds from 2 dozen red peppers, also most 
of the veins. Put to soak for 3 hours. Throw ofif this water 
and add fresh water and cook slowly. When real soft 
remove from the fire and scrape the jell from all the pep- 
pers. Take a very large onion, chop fine and fry in Cudahp's 
suetene until light brown. Into the same pan sprinkle 2 
tbs. flour. Let brown and add Chile pepper pulp, onion, 1 
cup of strained tomato juice, and a cup of the liquid in which 
the peppers were boiled. Let simmer until the consistency 
of thick cream. Season well with salt. 

Prepare the tortillas as follows : 

One quart flour, 1 rounding tbs. Rex lard, 1 tsp. salt, 
and enough water to make a biscuit dough. Take a piece 
of dough the size of an egg and roll out the size of a plate. 
Roll out 6 and bake on top of the stove, or may be fried on 
hot-cake griddle with lots of grease. If fried do not fry 
l^rown, for the grease must not be as hot as for doughnuts 
or croquettes. After all the dough is baked or fried, which 
will make 12, have ready 1 quart olives, 1 lb. grated cheese, 
ys cup finely chopped onion, 1 lb. seeded raisins, and 3 
hard boiled eggs, chopped fine. Have the Chile sauce hot, 

159 



(lip the tortillas in one at a time, and place on hot plate in 
which it is to be served. On one-half of the tortillas spread 
a little of the chopped eggs, cheese and olives, about 1 olive 
to the tortilla. Do this until all are filled in this manner, 
and fold over the half not filled. Pour over the remainder 
of the sauce and sprinkle with some grated cheese. Be sure 
to keep the sauce hot while preparing, and serve as soon 
as possible. A little minced Chicken or Turkey adds won- 
derfully to the taste when mixed with the chopped ingre- 
dients. 

Another way to make the Mexican enchiladas is to pre- 
pare same as for these, only the tortillas are made of fried 
corn meal instead of biscuit dough, and a fried egg is served 
as a top layer instead of the half fold of the tortillas. 

STEWS 

The object of stews is to subtract the meat juices and 
flavor from the meat and add to the water in which it is 
cooked. Beef, Veal. Lamb and kidney stews should be cut 
in very small cubes the size of a tablespoon. The temper- 
ature for stewing should be from 140° to 160° F., this being 
low enough to prevent coagulation of the meat. One of the 
economical means of making the stews answer the place of 
much more meat is the addition of vegetables. Because of 
the fact that the ingredients are cooked slowly, little of the 
flavor or food value evaporates in steam. Consequently, a 
stew is easily digested, as well as economical. Tt also re- 
tains the rich nutritive juices for food value. 

BEEF STEW, SPANISH 

Take meat left from any previous meal, such as ends of 
steak, pieces of roast, or the meat from a front shank soup 
bone. Cut in small pieces. If you have no left-overs and 

160 



v/ant stew, go to the market and ask for 2 lbs. Beef neck 
boned, flank, or plate meat. Do not think it necessary to 
have round steak for stew. 

Always remember to sear or brown any and all meat, 
with exception of liver, before you put the meat into water. 

2 lbs. left over or flank cut into small pieces. 

Add small amount of hot water, enough to cook slowly 
without sticking to kettle. Boil slowly until tender. While 
meat is cooking, seed and remove the veins from 10 to 12 
red peppers, leaving only enough veins in the peppers so 
as to make it sufficiently hot — perhaps the veins of 6 peppers 
will be right. Boil until tender. Remove and when cool 
scrape all the mush-like contents from the inside of the 
peppers. Put into small dish. Throw skins away. When 
meat is thoroughly done fry 3 good sized onions in Cudahy's 
suetene. Add 2 large tomatoes, 1 tsp. vinegar, 1 tsp. sugar, 
and salt to suit taste. Mince 1 crescent of garlic and mix 
these ingredients with the peppers. Pour this mixture over 
meat and let boil slowly for 30 minutes. 

IRISH STEW 

lyz lbs. left-over meats, or front shank soup bone meat, 
neck or butcher's steak, or plate. Sear meat well. Peel, 
wash and cut into small cubes, 3 carrots, 2 potatoes, 1 turnip 
and 1 large onion. Cook in an aluminum double cooker 40 
minutes. Salt and pepper to taste. 

GERMAN STEW 

1^ lbs. left-over meats, or such as suggested for other 
stews. ^ lb. salt Pork chopped in small cubes. 2 cups 
boiled white beans, 1 onion, 1 tbs. vinegar, 4 bay leaves, 
salt, pepper, and allspice. Cook until done. 

161 



TRIPE STEW 

2 lbs. honeycomb tripe cut into strings about 4 inches 
long. 2 ripe tomatoes, 1 large onion, a dash of red pepper, 
^2 tsp. Chile powder, Yz crescent pulverized garlic, 1 tbs. 
vinegar. Thicken with 1 tbs. flour just before removing 
from fire. 

JAP STEW 

Two lbs. shoulder steak cut into small cubes, 6 pieces 
fried bacon cut up small. 1 cup boiled rice, 1 cup tomato 
juice strained, salt, pepper. Boil 1^ minutes, slowly. 

LAMB STEW AND GREEN PEAS 

Two lbs. breast of I^amb cut into small pieces. Put into 
2 pints boiling hot water and boil slowly for one hour. Boil 
in separate kettle until done, Yi pint green peas. If fresh 
peas instead of canned peas, just before they boil throw in 
a pinch of baking soda. This will keep them in their natural 
color. When peas are done, have batter consisting of 1 ^^^. 
1 cup of milk. 1 tsp. Cudahy's suetene. and 2 tsp. baking 
powder, with enough flour added to make a very soft dough 
so that it will drop from a spoon. When meat is done drop 
dough in a spoonful at a time, but pour the peas in before 
you drop the dumplings. Season the meat with salt and 
pepper before the dumplings are added. 

VEAL STEW 

Two lbs. Veal neck, breast or front shank. Cut into 
small pieces and place in boiling w^ater. Stew slowly for 
1 hour and 15 minutes. If not to be served with dumplings, 
thicken with 1 tbs. flour, and add salt and pepper to taste. 

162 



Dumplings may be served same as for Lamb stew, if desired, 
but in that case do not thicken gravy. 

CHICKEN STEW 

Select a Chicken that has been killed at least 3 days. 
Wash thoroughly with soap suds. Rinse and remove en- 
trails, then wash inside. A large fat hen is much the best 
for this purpose, as the young Chickens are not usually fat 
enough. The fat being very essential for flavor, and par- 
ticularly so if 3^ou wish to serve with dumplings. It is well 
to remember this. In order to be sure that the fowl is 
healthy, you should see it dressed. Never purchase a 
Chicken without the head on. as that is another way of 
telling whether or not it is healthy and fit for food. 

After the Chicken has been properly cleaned, cut up by 
first cutting ofT the wings ; then the legs, which are cut into 
two parts each ; then the upper joints of the legs, which are 
also cut into two parts each ; and then the breast, which is 
cut into four equal parts. The back has very little meat 
on it. and is only good to flavor the rest of the meat. 

Place the cut-up meat into 1^ quarts boiling water. 
Boil for 1^ hours, or 2j% hours if extremely old. When 
tender enough to break from the bone when lifting with a 
fork, season with salt, pepper, and thicken with 1^ tbs. 
flour. 

If served with dumplings, do not thicken the gravy, 
as the dumplings will do that. Make dumplings for Chicken 
stew same as for Lamb or Veal stew. Dumplings of this 
kind are called drop dumplings. Always drop about 8 
minutes before the meat is ready to serve, and keep covered 
while cooking, as they absorb a great deal of liquid and 
flavor. If any are left over, they are nice fried and served 
with fruit sauce or cream meat gravy. 

163 



KIDNEY SAUTE 

Two Beef kidneys or 12 Lamb kidneys. 

Cut the kidneys in small pieces and soak in salt water 
not less than one hour. Have Cudahy's suetene very hot 
in frying pan. Place the kidneys in and let fry for 20 min- 
utes, stirring- constantly, to keep from burning. When 
thoroughly done, make a thick gravy in the pan containing 
the kidneys by using one heaping tablespoon flour, to which 
is added 1^ cups warm water, salt and pepper to taste. Let 
the kidneys stew in this gravy and thin by using water, until 
ready to serve. Have bread toast ready and serve on pieces 
of toast. A minced onion added to the kidneys just before 
adding gravy, makes a much better flavor. 



BROILED KIDNEYS 

Have the butcher spit in halves 1 dozen Lamb kidneys. 

Soak in salt water to remove the strong odor. Place 
the kidneys in broiler with open side down toward the fire 
at first, then turn and broil the outside of the kidney. Broil 
5 minutes. Place one Lamb kidney on small piece of hot 
buttered toast. Serve with sauce made from juice of any 
fried chops or steak out of which make a thin brown gravy, 
and pour over the kidneys and toast and serve as quickly 
as possible. 

KIDNEY STEW 

Two Beef kidneys or 12 Lamb kidneys. 2 onions, 1 
large ripe tomato, and 1 potato. Season to taste. Cut 
meat in small cubes. Boil 25 minutes. Add vegetables cut 
in small pieces, and thicken with flour just before ready 
to remove from stove. 

164 



RIB BOILING MEAT OR RIBS FOR STEW 

Ask for the plate ribs. Get about 3 lbs. for a family 
of four, and wash with a damp cloth. Sear them well and 
start them to boiling in hot water (not cold water). And 
only have enough water to start them cooking good. Then 
add more hot water as needed, a little at a time. When the 
short ribs of Beef are cooked thoroughly well done, they 
may be served with tomato sauce, fresh grated horseradish, 
or short ribs Spanish. If you wish to serve Spanish, this 
recipe will prove satisfactory to most people. 

In a separate kettle cook 3 large ripe tomatoes peeled, 
2 large onions minced fine, one crescent of garlic, 4 red 
Chile peppers, with most of the seeds and veins removed. 
Boil the red peppers until soft, then scrape the jell from 
them and throw the skins away. Let the Spanish mixture 
cook slowly until it starts to thicken. Then add ^ teacup 
of vinegar. Pour most of the water or fat from the ribs and 
add the Spanish mixture to the meat. Let cook together 
15 minutes, slowly. The broth from the meat can be used 
for a most delicious vegetable, rice or bean soup for the 
next day. Let it cool over night, then remove the fat from 
the top. 



PLATE OR BRISKET CORN BEEF 

If you wish to make your own corn Beef select 4 lbs., 
or 6 lbs. is much more economical. Make a brine in a crock 
or some earthenware utensil. To 6 quarts water add 2^ 
cups salt, 1 cup sugar, >4 tsp. pulverized salt peter. Place 
the brisket or plate in the brine. Let them remain in brine 
not less than 6 days, and it is very important that the meat 
and brine be kept in a cool place where there is an even tem- 
perature. 

165 



ROASTS 

Rump Roast, Cross Rib Roast, Chuck Roast, Shoulder Clod, 
Point, and German Pot Roasts 

Any of the above mentioned roasts may be cooked by 
this recipe, but do not recommend the rump roast as an 
economical cut. 

Select a pot roast that has some fat. If there is not fat 
in the roast, buy a small piece of cod fat or kidney suet to 
go with the roast, for a pot roast cannot be cooked very 
satisfactorily without enough fat to cook it down, richen 
the juice and flavor the meat. 



POT ROASTS 
8th, 9th or 10th Rib in the Chuck 

After taking into consideration the waste and shrink- 
age, the chuck is much cheaper than rump roast or loin butt, 
even tho it does appear that there is much more waste in 
the chuck. 

The rolled plate or German pot roast is a very econom- 
ical pot roast. 

The second and third cut of the neck make a nice pot 
roast. 

Select a roast large enough for at least two meals, for 
in that way it is much to your advantage. You will be 
able to get a better selection, and it takes comparatively 
little more fuel to cook it. 

Get a 3^ lb. pot roast of any of the above mentioned 
cuts. Wash with damp cloth, sear well before starting to 
pot roast. Always insist upon a small piece of suet, if you 
must pay extra in order to get it. That is, of course, if the 
roast itself has not sufficient suet of its own. Place the suet 

166 



in the kettle, and allow time to try out sufficient to prevent 
roast from sticking to the pot. Then place roast in and add 
just enough hot water at a time to allow meat to boil. Season 
while cooking". Allow to boil \j4 hours. Take meat from 
kettle. Thicken the remainder of the juice or broth with 
one tablespoon flour. Allow to brown. Season with salt 
and pepper, strain and serve in separate gravy bowl. 

POT ROAST AND SPAGHETTI 

Cook the pot roast in same manner as above mentioned. 
Boil two large handsful of spaghetti separately. When 
roast and spaghetti are done, cut the roast in neat, even 
slices. Place the spaghetti on meat platter and cover with 
slices of pot roast. Pour gravy over top of the meat and 
serve as quickly as possible while hot. 

POT ROAST BEEF AND SPAGHETTI 

Select a nice round bone end of cross rib, or a fat chuck 
roast, about three pounds in weight. Get this the afternoon 
before the morning you wish to use it. Place in a dish with 
enough vinegar to come half way up on the sides of the 
roast. Soak one side about five hours, then before retiring 
turn the roast and soak the other side over night. Before 
starting the roast to cook, wipe it thoroughly with a damp 
cloth . Then wash the roast off in a pan of hot water, take 
it out and dry thoroughly. Sear it well in frying pan with 
tablespoon hot suetene. Dredge well in flour. Get extra 
pieces of suet with your roast. Start the suet in kettle, 
and when enough grease has fried out to keep the roast 
from sticking, put in the pot roast. Add just enough hot 
water at a time to keep the roast from cooking down dry. 
Turn the roast often enough to cook evenly on both sides. 

167 



Have cooking in a separate kettle about half of a small pack- 
age of spaghetti. When roast is thoroughly done, which 
will be when it is so tender that you can hardly lift with 
a fork, add one pint hot water and remove the roast. Pour 
ofif half a pint of juice with which to make gravy, add the 
spaghetti to the remainder, and pour in enough water to 
keep it from sticking. If you wish the spaghetti Italian, 
while it is cooking separately, mince one onion, two ripe 
tomatoes, two green Chile peppers, two cloves or crescents 
of garlic. These should be minced fine, then add a dash 
of red pepper. Either plain or Italian, the juice from the 
meat flavors the spaghetti and adds greatly to its taste. 
When cooked in this manner this will prove to be a very 
economical roast, and you will be sure to have a tender 
piece of meat, which is not the least important when one 
wishes an appetizing meal, and one which can be relished 
by those who partake of it. 

Notice 

Never use fork to turn meat while it is cooking, for the 
fork will make holes in the roast, and will let the juice out, 
thereby causing it to be tough. 

PRIME RIB ROAST FOR THE OVEN 

This is suggested only for an occasion where looks are 
more essential than quantity, as the shoulder clod, 8 chuck 
rib and the rump roast will make a most delicious oven 
roast, if prepared with vinegar, if there is any doubt at all 
as to its tenderness. (See Recipe No. ), for instructions 
as to how to use vinegar in preparation of a roast. 

The prime rib makes a very choice oven roast. But not 
sufificiently so to warrant the exorbitant difiference in price 
between it and the shoulder clod, chuck or rump roast. 

168 



Select a roast that has some fat in the meat. This is 
necessary to insure flavor and tender meat, if it is well aged. 
If it is not aged the vinegar will soften the fiber of the 
meat, which otherwise would have been accomplished by 
age. 

How to Oven Roast Prime Rib Rolled, Prime Rib Standing, 
Rump Roast, Shoulder Clod, or Chuck Rib 

Rub the outer surface with Cudahy's suetene. Dredge 
well with flour, sear in pan before placing in the oven. 
Especially should this be done if using aluminum double 
roasting pan. Have the oven very hot, put in roast, let cook 
until thoroughly browned on all sides. This keeps the juice 
and flavor in the meat. After it has browned sufficiently 
allow temperature to drop about 6 to 8 degrees and cook 
more slowly. Season with salt and pepper and baste quite 
frequently. For rare meat bake 10 minutes to the pound, 
for well done, 15 to 17 minutes to the pound. This applies 
to Beef roast rolled. Rib roast 20 minutes to the pound. 

GERMAN SAUER ROAST 

Select three pounds of shoulder clod, or the point. 

Put in crock or bowl. 

Cover with 1 tbs. whole allspice 

1 tbs. whole corander 

1 tbs. whole cloves 

1 tsp. ground pepper 

1 heaping tsp. salt 

34 cup bay leaves 

Enough vinegar to cover the roast. 

Let stand in this for about three or four days, turning 
every day to let the spice soak into the meat. 

169 



Pot roast in aluminum kettle or any utensil not suscep- 
tible to the acid. Put in all meat, spices and vinegar. Let 
cook until it commences to brown, then add just enough 
water to keep from burning. When thoroughly done, take 
out meat, thin the gravy, strain the spice from the meat 
juice and thicken with flour same as any gravy. 



GERMAN POT ROAST AND NOODLES 

Get a nice piece of plate. Have the butcher bone and 
roll it. The piece should weigh about 3^ lbs. before it is 
rolled. Wipe with damp cloth. Sear it well before adding 
hot water to pot roast. As the plate usually has enough 
of its own fat to make nice rich juice in which to cook it, 
do not add too much water at a time. When roast is done, 
remove and place in warming oven. Have noodles ready to 
drop in. Fill the stock from the meat with enough water 
in which to cook the noodles. The meat stock flavors the 
noodles, and as noodles are much cheaper than meat the 
conibination makes a splendid meal, yet very economical. 

The most important things to be remembered in suc- 
cessfully cooking a pot roast, are : To sear the meat well 
before starting it to cook; always brown it down in just 
enough suetene, or its own suet, and then add just a little 
hot water at a time, and never turn your roast with a fork. 
If these instructions are carried out you will very seldom 
have a tough piece of meat, regardless of the cut, or how 
it is to be served. Any cut of pot roast may be cooked by 
recipe for German pot roast, pot roast and noodles, pot roast 
and brown potatoes, pot roast and potato cakes. Recipes for 
the above will be found herein. However, I would suggest 
the rolled plate or chuck as the most economical roast for 
any and all occasions when pot roast is desired. 

170 



SHOULDER OF LAMB 

For a family of four get a four-pound shoulder of Lamb. 
Have the butcher slip the shoulder blade out and sew a 
pocket. Fill with bread dressing. Season with salt, pepper 
and serve with mint sauce. Garden peas as a vegetable. 
Roast same as fowl. 

SHOULDER OF VEAL 

For a family of four get about 3j/2 lbs. shoulder of Veal. 
Have it prepared as the Lamb shoulder, by having the blade 
removed. Fill pocket with dressing. Dredge well with 
flour and sear the meat brown before putting it into the 
oven to roast. Season and baste while cooking. Serve with 
a brown gravy made from the juice and fryings from the 
roast. If the Veal has no fat of its own, have about two 
slices of dry salt Pork to lay on top of the roast. 

SHOULDER OF PORK 

In selecting the shoulder Pork roast if you cannot get 
the arm cut which resembles the cut from the leg of Pork, 
then ask for the shoulder cut ; and if you do not care to serve 
with dressing, have the blade removed anyway, for it is 
much more easily carved, and serve with apple sauce. This 
will make a very economical Pork roast, yet is equal in 
quality to the leg roast, at 20% less cost. 

VEAL 
Veal Chops Breaded with Tomato Cream Sauce 

Two lbs loin or rib Veal chops, cut medium thick. 
Wipe with damp cloth. Beat the whites and yolks of 
2 eggs. 

171 



Have bread crumbs in bowl or plate. 

Dip the chops in the beaten eggs, so as to cover both 
sides of the chop. 

Then roll them in tlie bread or cracker crumbs (bread 
crumbs are preferable). 

Have about 2 tbs. of Cudahy's suetene smoking hot in 
a good aluminum skillet. Fry about 5 minutes to each side 
of the chop. Season each side after it has been cooked, not 
before. While the chops are frying, have the pulp and juice 
from 2 large tomatoes cooking slowly in a small kettle. 
Mince 3 tbs. onion, 1 green pepper, a dash of red pepper 
and let come to boil. Season with Vz tsp. salt. Thicken 
with 1 tbs. flour. 

When chops are crisp brown, remove and serve with 
cream sauce on hot plate. 

VEAL ROUND STEAK 

(Not suggested from standpoint of economy) 

Same recipe as for chops can be used for Veal round. 

Rib chops of Veal is only suggested as a dainty dish 
for guests, for the shoulder Veal steak is just as nice in 
quality and much cheaper in price. Average cost of rib or 
loin Veal chops, 25c to 28c and 30c per pound. 

Price of shoulder Veal steak, 18c to 20c per pound, 
making a difference of from 20% to 40% in cost. 

VEAL BREAKFAST DANDIES 

Take the little ends of Veal chops or what is left from 
a Veal roast. Cut into very small cubes. Cut one carrot 
into small dice. Mince one very small onion and a small 
amount of parsley. 

172 



Put one heaping tbs. Cudahy's suetene in frying pan. 
Put in cubed A'eal and vegetables. Let fry until a nice 
brown. Add two tbs. mashed potatoes and pour over all 
just enough hot water to make a juicy gravy. Let simmer 
about three minutes. Have pieces of brown toast ready. 
Cover each piece of toast with meat and vegetables. Season 
with salt and pepper. 

STEAKS 

Porterhouse, T-bone, short rib. sirloin, tenderloin, flank 
steak, sirloin tips, butcher's steak, round steak, skirt steak, 
and chuck steak, shoulder steak or Number 7, as this last 
steak is quite often called by the three names mentioned. 

Porterhouse Steak 

The porterhouse steak is very expensive, largely due 
to demand. 

The kidney suet and flank on a porterhouse, for which 
you pay a very exorbitant price, when compared with the 
price for which you could buy the suet and flank outside of 
the steak, when taken into consideration, make this steak 
a rich man's luxury rather than a poor man's necessity for 
quality. A thin porterhouse steak has no advantage over 
any cheaper quality of steak which you may buy. If it is 
necessary to purchase a thick steak, in order to receive qual- 
ity, why throw your money away on imagination? 

For the benefit of those who insist on porterhouse 
steak, and who believe they can afford it, I give the follow- 
ing recipe, whereby you will be able to cook your steak in 
such a manner that it will retain all its juice, and wheii 
served will be tender. 

Select a porterhouse steak with a large undercut, or 

173 



large tenderloin. This will necessarily require a large steak. 
Have it cut not less than one inch thick. And a thick steak 
should be broiled instead of fried. If to be fried, first wash 
the steak with damp cloth. Cut the outside edge about 
every two inches, so that it will not draw out of shape 
while cooking. Have pan very hot with just enough 
Cudahy's suetene to keep the steak from sticking to the pan. 
Cook thoroughly on one side then turn the meat over, but 
do not use a fork, for by the use of the fork the juice leaves 
the steak. Season when almost done. Notice time table for 
steak well done or medium. 

Butcher's Hamburger 

For family of four: 

Get 1^14 11^- round steak. Cut out all the fat and sinew. 

1 large apple 

2 sticks of celery 
2 tomatoes 

1 small can of green Chile peppers 
6 or 8 green onion 

And just a few sprigs of parsley. 

Clean the celery, peel tomatoes, clean onions and peel 
apples. Have butcher chop the round steak on the block 
with cleavers, as running it through the mill extracts most 
of the juice. Have him chop the steak very fine in this man- 
ner, then cut the apples and celery and add them to the 
chopped meat. After these have been well chopped into 
the meat add the tomatoes, peppers and green onions, also 
the parsley. Chop well. Then chop in an egg, yolk and 
white. Salt and pepper to suit taste. This may be eaten 
raw on sandwiches made of rye bread, or may be fried the 
same as the regular Hamburger steak." 

174 



Plain Hamburger 

If you purchase the hamburger already ground, be sure 
that it is from a market under government inspection. And 
at some convenient time. I would suggest the afternoon as 
being the best time, make a trip of inspection in the back 
room of the market where you trade. Then decide whether 
the condition found there will, for your health and that of 
your family, permit you to buy any and all kinds of sausage 
from that place. 

The summer is the best time, in your interests, to make 
the trip of inspection. Note what is put into your ham- 
burger and sausage. Note the general condition of the sau- 
sage kitchen. Are there many flies, etc? Then if you pre- 
fer, grind your own hamburger. 

Hamburger Steak, Plain 

Do not think you must have round steak in orticr tw 
make good hamburger. The Beef neck, flank from the hind 
quarter, or a butcher's steak will be at least 20% less in 
cost. 

Recipe : 

Salt and pepper meat to suit taste. Chop one large 
onion in very small pieces. Mash the onion into the meat, 
then mould into small thin cakes and fry in very hot pan of 
Cudahy's suetene. Cook thoroughly on one side before 
turning the meat. To cook well done, 5 minutes, and me- 
dium done. 3 minutes. 

Round Steak 

Take iy2 lbs. steak cut ^-inch thick. Have the butcher 
score it for your. Season well with salt and pepper 
Sprinkle well with flour. Have frying pan good and hot 

175 



with enough Cudahy's suetene to fry the steak. After the 
steak has browned good on both sides, pour ly^ teacupful 
of water in the pan, a little at a time. Let the steak stew 
in this juice about 5 minutes. Lay slices of l)read on top 
of the meat and cover with a lid. Let steam for 5 of 10 
minutes with a slow fire. Remove when the bread is soft 
and w^ell steamed. Serve with a brown thick gravy, made 
from the juice left from the steak, and adding enough water 
and flour to make sufficient for the meal. 

Round Steak Roll 

If the family is large enough to use a thick round steak 
weighing 3j/< to 4 lbs., have it cut about 3^-inch thick. Make 
a bread dressing and cover the top surface with the dressing. 
Roll the steak with dressing inside. Bake in baking pan 
about 15 minutes to the pound. Season and baste just as 
it commences to brown. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Round Steak and Mushrooms 

Select a medium thick piece of round steak. Fry until 
thoroughly done. Make a mushroom sauce by cutting the 
mushrooms up in small cubes, stew them in just enough 
wine to cover, and when the alcohol has burned out of the 
wine, thicken with flour and water. Season with salt and 
pepper. Cover the steak with the sauce and serve imme- 
diately. 

Rabbit, Chicken or Pigeon Pie 

First, boil the Rabbit or fowl until tender. Save enough 
of the broth to pour over the meat. After the meat has 
cooled, cut in small pieces. Make a crust of 2 quarts sifted 
flour, 1 tsp. salt, 1 tsp. sugar, 2 rounding tsp. good baking 
powder, lyi cups sweet milk, and 2 rounding tsp. Cudahy's 

176 



suetene. \\ ater may be used in place of milk, if so desired. 
Place one crust on bottom of pan. Fill with meat, pour 
W2 cups of broth cn-er it, and place top crust, and bake in 
hot oven about 15 minutes. 

Pigeon Pie 

Wash and clean Pigeons. Cut into four quarters. Put 
Pigeons into an aluminum kettle and let boil slowly, for 
about one hour and forty-five minutes. If you have not 
enough broth left in which they were cooked to make about 
2 quarts, add enough hot water to make that amount. You 
may determine whether or not they are done by trying to 
lift them with a fork. About 8 minutes before ready to 
serve beat one egg well, add a pinch of salt, % tsp. sugar, 
ys cup of sweet milk, 1 tsp. melted butter, 2 tsp. baking 
powder slifted in a pint of flour, or enough to make a stifif 
dough. Drop into the broth 1 tbs. at a time. Do not touch 
dough with fingers. Cover the kettle so as not to allow the 
steam to escape. Let them steam for about 8 minutes. The 
dumplings will absorb all the flavor of the pigeons and will 
rise to the size of a teacup. Any left over from the meal 
may be sliced, fried in Cudahy's suetene, and served with 
a fruit sauce. 

Place the Pigeons in the center of the plate and the 
dumplings around the edge. Pour the liquir over the meat 
and dumplings, and serve while hot. 

Fried Rabbit 

Have your Rabbits dressed and thoroughly chilled be- 
fore frying. If they are soaked in salt water about an hour 
after they are dressed, the flavor will be very much im- 
proved. Rabbits, unlike Poultry, should be drawn as soon 
as killed. Cut the Rabbits in quarters, then the loin and 

177 



ribs in one piece. Season with salt and pepper. Sprinkle 
with flour. Fry in pan of hot suetene. When a crisp 
brown, remove and lay on a cloth to drain. Cream gravy 
with mashed potatoes served with fried Rabbit makes a 
very nice meal. A nice tender young rabbit should never 
weigh over 23^ or 3 lbs. when dressed ready for the pan. 



POULTRY 

Fricasseed Chicken 

After selecting a healthy bird, cut the Chicken up in 
pieces about three inches in size. It is not nearly so essen- 
tial to have a young Chicken for fricassee as it is f.or roast- 
ing. Put enough water into the cut-up Chicken to allow 
it to steam well without cooking dry. When the meat is 
soft and tender, pour in enough boiling water to cover the 
meat. Remove the Chicken and have a dough made for 
dumplings. (See recipe for dumplings No. ). Drop 
dumplings into broth and cook, the same as for Pigeon pie. 

This is the most economical way in which to serve 
Chicken, and yet there is nothing better than Chicken with 
good drop dumplings. 

Turkey Roasted 

If you wish to be sure that your holiday Turkey is 
going to be tender, have it killed at least three to five days 
before the day you wish to use it. It should be put in cold 
storage at such a place as you know to be reliable, and 
which has good cold storage equipment. When you are 
ready to cook your Turkey, after it is all prepared, place it 
in the wash boiler, if you do not have another aluminum 
boiler large enough. Place in the bottom of the boiler a 

178 



steamer, or buckets, to hold the bird up out of the water. 
Then fill the boiler with enough water to come just high 
enough on the steamer or buckets so that the Turkey will 
remain out of the water. Steam the Turkey in this way 
for about twenty minutes to the pound. This will cook the 
bird thoroughly. Remove from the boiler and fill with 
dressing. Place in a moderately hot oven and baste every 
ten minutes, for about 40 minutes. If you will follow these 
instructions, I am sure you will never be embarrassed by 
having a tough Turkey for Christmas or Thanksgiving din- 
ner. As cranberries, plum pudding or suet pudding, and 
pumpkin or mince pie, always go with Turkey, do not omit 
these most important additions to the Turkey dinner. 

How to Roast Hens, Turkeys and Ducks 

To properH select a good bird, follow instructions 
given under head of Poultry. Examine the head and feet, 
and as stated, do not accept the fowl if it has been drawn 
in your absence, for as a protection to your health and that 
of your family, you should see the fowl drawn. 

Hen for Roasting 

After you have examined the Chicken, and have become 
convinced that it is a young, healthy bird, and after it has 
been dressed, proceed as follows : 

Wash thoroughly. Make a dressing consisting of dry 
bread, well soaked in water until it becomes soft. Squeeze 
out all the water and season with salt, pepper and sage ; % 
cup raisins adds greatly to the flavor of the dressing. Or, 
if using Oyster dressing, make it in the same way as above 
suggested, only omit the raisins and add a pint of fresh 
Oysters instead. Fill and sew up the end of the fowl. Have 
oven very hot. Baste well and place in oven. As soon as 

179 



the outside becomes a light brown, decrease the temper- 
ature and baste every 20 minutes to the pound. When 
it is tender and breaks very easily, take out of oven and 
i:)Iace on ])latter garnished with crisp lettuce leaves. Pour 
off all the liquid except about one pint. Stir into this a 
large heaping tablespoon flour. Allow to simmer until it 
becomes thick, then add enough water to thin to the proper 
thickness. Season with salt, pepper and serve in gravy 
bowl. 

Roast Duck 

If you desire to dress your own Duck, you will find it 
a great help in removing the feathers, if you will first place 
the Duck securely in a clean grain sack. Then pour boiling 
water over the sack and let it steam about 5 minutes, 
the Duck is a water birrl, their feathers are very hard to 
remove in the same manner as one removes the feathers 
of a Chicken — that is. by scalding. The water does not 
penetrate to the flesh. But if steamed they are usually 
removed very easily. After the feathers have been removed, 
wash the Duck good with soap suds and remove entrails. 
As a usual thing a Duck is much fatter than a Chicken. 
Remove a part of the inside fat. Fill with dressing and 
start in real hot oven. After it becomes a light brown on 
the outside, reduce the temperature and let bake slowly. 
Baste about every 20 minutes. A Duck is always carved to 
better advantage if broken and quartered m the kitchen 
in the pan in which is was roasted, or on the broad board, 
for the flat breast bone, unlike that of a Chicken or Turkey, 
is very difficult to carve at the table. 

Squabs 

You will be able to select a Squab by pressing the 
breast bone, which should be very soft. The wing joints 

180 



should be very tender and easily broken at the second 
joint, and it improves the quality if the bird is killed at 
least one day before using. Then remove the entrails and 
wash thoroughly. If the Squabs are to be broiled or fried, 
they should be split in halves before washing, for when 
split open they are much easier cleaned and washed. Re- 
move heart, liver and lungs. Rub well with Cudahy's suet- 
ene. Season with salt and pepper. If to be fried, roll in 
flour. Have pan of hot suetene ready and place in the pan, 
meat side down first. Cook the meat side about 7 minutes, 
turning the pieces every 3 minutes to keep them from burn- 
ing or sticking to the pan. 

MOTHER'S MEAT PIE 

2 lbs. of Veal from neck, shank or shoulder. 

1 lb. Beef from neck or flank. 

^ lb. salt Pork cut into small dice. Boil until tender. 

Cut into small pieces, season with salt, pepper, 1 tsp. 
Worcester sauce, 1 onion minced fine, 3 boiled potatoes cut 
into pieces. Pour iy2 cups of broth from meat over the 
meat and vegetables. Place between a biscuit crust and 
bake 15 minutes in hot oven. Serve with a thickened gravy 
from remainder of the broth. 



TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

Abbreviations 

Tsp. — Tea Spoon 
Tbs. — Tablespoon 
Tcp. — Tea Cup 
Pt.— Pint 
Qt.— Quart 

181 



Measures 

2 cups flour — Yz lb. 

1 solid cup suetene — Yz lb. 

1 solid cup granulated sugar — ^ lb. 

1 solid cup ground meat — Y2. lb. 

1 cup — Yz pt. 

1 round tablespoon suetene, butter or lard — 1 oz. 

4 tbs. full — 34 cup. 

3 tsp. full — 1 tablespoon. 

1 cup liquid to 3 cups flour for bread. 

1 cup flour to one cup liquid for hot cakes or batters. 

1 cup liquid to two cups flour for muffins. 

1 tsp. soda to one pint of sour milk. 

1 tsp. soda to one cup molasses. 

Ya tsp. salt to one qt. of water. 

Always be exact in your measures or time of cooking. 
For the success oi any of these recipes depends largely on 
measurements and time of cooking. 



Baking Breads, Cakes and Puddings 

Rolls — 15 to 20 minutes. 
Ginger bread — 20 to 35 minutes. 
Ginger bread, 20 to 35 minutes. 
Graham muffins, 25 to 30 minutes. 
Plain cake, 35 to 40 minutes. 
Sponge cake, 50 to 60 minutes. 
Cookies, 12 to 15 minutes. 
Loaf bread, 40 to 60 minutes. 
Pie crust, 25 to 30 minutes. 



182 



Puddings 

Plum pudding, 3 hours. 
Suet pudding, 3 to 5 hours. 
Bread pudding, 1 hour. 
Indian pudding, lyz to 3 hours. 
Rice pudding, 1 hour. 

Custards 

Cocoanut, rice, cream, etc., about 20 minutes. 

Baked beans, 9 to 10 hours. 

Baked potatoes, 40 to 45 minutes. 

Scolloped potatoes, tomatoes, Fish, etc., 20 minutes. 

Baking Meats 

Rolled prime rib roast Beef (rare) 8 to 10 minutes to 
the lb. 

Rolled prime rib Beef (well done), 15 to 20 minutes 
to the lb. 

Rump roast, 15 minutes to the lb. 

Standing rib roast Beef, 15 minutes per lb., medium 
done. 

Standing rib roast Beef, well done, 18 to 20 minutes 
per lb. 

Short ribs of Beef, 18 minutes per lb. 

Braised Beef, 20 minutes per lb. 

Leg of Mutton, well done, 18 to 20 minutes per lb. 

Leg Lamb, well done, 18 minutes per lb. 

Leg or shoulder Veal, 20 minutes per lb. 

Leg of shoulder Pork, not less than 30 minutes per lb. 

Loin of Pork, 20 minutes per lb. 

Spare ribs, 15 minutes per lb. 

183 



Poultry 

Old hens, 4 hours to the foul of 3 to 5 lbs. weight. 

Young hens, 3 hours to the foul. 

Turkeys, 3^ hours. 

Turkeys parboiled, 2^ to 3 hours. 

Tame Ducks, 1 hour. 

Wild Ducks, 35 to 40 minutes. 

Goose, 8 to 10 lbs. weight, about 23/> hours. 

Quail or Pigeon, 30 minutes. 

Fish 

Barracuda, Salmon, Rock Cod. Bass or any thick Fish, 
1 hour. 

Halibut, Sandabs, fillet of Sole, etc., 25 to 30 minutes. 
Rabbits, lj/2 to 2 hours. 

Boiling 

Pot roast Beef, 20 minutes to the \h. 

Pot roast shoulder Lamb, 15 minutes to the lb. 

Corn Beef, 30 minutes to the lb. 

Beef tongue, 3y2 to 4 hours. 

Lamb tongue, 3 hours. 

Pig's feet, 4 hours. 

Soup stock, 33^ to 5 hours. 

Pot pie of Veal, Lamb. Rabbit or Pigeons, Zyi hours. 

Boiled Vegetables 

Sweet corn, 8 minutes. 

Peas, tomatoes, celery and asparagus, 20 minutes. 
Potatoes, cauliflower, spinach, squash, 20 to 25 minutes. 
Cabbage, parsnips, carrots, turnips, beets and onions, 
50 to 60 minutes. 

184 



String beans, Lima beans, 1)^ hours. 
Fresh green peas, ly^ to l-)4 hours. 
Dried red or white beans, 3 hours. 

Cereals 

Oat meal, about 30 minutes. 
Oat meal, steamed, 3 hours. 
Hominy grits, 1 hour. 
Corn meal, 1 to 1^ hours. 
Cream of wheat, 20 to 30 minutes. 
Rice, 30 minutes. 

Eggs 

Soft boiled, 3 to 5 minutes. 
Hard boiled, 15 to 20 minutes. 
Poached, 10 to 12 minutes. 

Coffee 

CofTee, 5 minutes. 

Tea, steeped (do not boil), 5 minutes. 

Frying 

Lamb chops. Veal and Pork chops, 5 to 7 minutes (de- 
pending on thickness). 

Chops and liver, breaded, 7 to 10 minutes. 

Bacon, 3 to 5 minutes. 

Croquettes, 1 to 1^ minutes. 

Fritters, 3 to 5 minutes. 

Small Fish, 8 minutes. 

Raw potatoes, 5 minutes. 

Boiled potatoes, 3 minutes. 

185 



Quantity per Person 

Roast Beef, 3 persons to the lb. 
Roast Veal, 3 persons to the lb. 
Roast Pork, 4 persons to the lb. 
Meat loaf, 4 persons to the lb. 
Stews. 4 persons to the lb. 

Steaks 

Round steak, 3 to the lb. 
Shoulder steak, 3 to the lb. 
Sirloin steak, 2 to the lb. 
Porterhouse steak, 2 to the lb. 
Flank steak, 3 to the lb. 

Chops 

(This largely depends on how thick the chops are cut.) 

Lamb chops, 3 to the lb. 
Mutton chops, 4 to the lb. 
Veal chops, 3 to the lb. 
Pork chops, 3 to the lb. 
Meat pie, 4 to 5 to the lb. 



SALADS 

Waldorf Salad 

(By Mrs. C. A. Spooler) 

Select firm juicy apples. 
Pare and cut in crescents. 

Wash and clean celery cut into cubes, using about one- 
half as much celery as apples. 

186 



Two tablespoons grated pineapple adds greatly to the 
flavor. 

Select crisp lettuce leaves and wash thoroughly. Gar- 
nish a dish with lettuce leaves, then cut more of the lettuce, 
principally the hearts, into small pieces. 

Make a dressing consisting of : 

1 tsp. mustard. 
1 tsp. salt. 
1 tsp sugar. 

Dash of Cayenne pepper. 
Yolks of 2 eggs. 
3 tsp. lemon juice. 
2i/2 tsp. vinegar. 
1^ cups Cornett salad oil. 
Mix or stir together the yolks, salt, pepper and sugar. 

Then add oil, just a few drops at a time, stirring and 
beating very fast. When dressing becomes thick, thin it 
occasionally with lemon and vinegar alternately, but never 
add so much at a time as to thin to a liquid state. Always 
keep bowl or dish in pan of ice or cold water while mixing 
the dressing. 

After dressing has become thick enough to make a very 
stiff paste, set away in the refrigerator to keep ice cold 
until ready to serve. Then pour over salad and add a table- 
spoonful of minced bell pepper sprinkled over the top. 



FRISCO SALAD 

Boil Syj lbs. Beef tongue 3)/^ hours. Place in cold 
water to cool. Peel. Then mince or cut into small cubes 
1 large onion, 1 bell pepper, 3 dill pickles, and add four or 

187 



five sprigs of parsley, minced fine. Chill a deep bowl with 
ice. In the bottom place a layer of minced vegetables. Cut 
the tongue in cubes and place a layer over the vegetables, 
etc. Garnish the bowl with crisp lettuce leaves. After each 
layer of meat and vegetables cover with a small amount 
of mayonnaise dressing. 

Around the top of the dish, in a ring around the bowl, 
l)lace sliced pickled beets, with a slice of hard boiled egg on 
each slice of beets. Cover the top of the vegetables and 
tongue with mayonnaise dressing, then place 6 or 8 stufifed 
olives on top. If served in individual salad dishes, serve 
each dish in the same manner as the large one. 

VEAL SALAD 

Use the shoulder of Veal and refer to tongue salad. 
Prepare the same as tongue salad, only use the Veal in place 
of the tongue. 

Economy Salad 

Select some small pieces of left-over meat such as 
Chicken, Veal, boiled Salmon, Turkey or boiled ham. Use 
as many of each as you have variety, or any one. After 
selecting pieces that will shred, use about three cupsful 
of shredded meat for a family of four. 

Shred the meat. 
Dice four radishes very small. 
Two dill pickles minced. 
Half of one bell pepper. 
Sprinkle this over the meat. 

Then clean and cut into little round rings four green 
onions and place these around the sides of the dish. Mince 

188 



about one tablespoonful of the green onion tops and add to 
the pickles, radishes and pepper. 

Make a l)oiled dressing- of: 

2 eggs. 

Yi tsp. mustard. 
y2 tsp. salt. 

3 tbs. vinegar. 

1 heaping tsp. Cudahy's suetene. 
A dash of paprika or Cayenne. 

Mix mustard, salt and 3^4 tsp. of sugar together. Beat 
with the eggs until light, then add vinegar and enough 
hot water to thin moderately. Cook in pan used as a double 
boiler, or the one containing the mixture should be set in 
another pan with l>oiling water in it. The pan which holds 
the mixture should be shallow enough to permit constant 
stirring. WHien it has become very thick and free from 
lumps, take from fire and add Cudahy's suetene and cream 
enough to thin dowm to proper consistency. 

Pour this dressing over the meat and minced pickles, 
etc. Garnish the dish with crisp lettuce leaves and set in 
the ice box until ready to serve. 

Combination Salad 

1 head of crisp lettuce. 

2 ripe tomatoes. 

4 radishes. 

1 bell pepper. 

5 green onion. 

6 green olives. 

Wash clean all the vegetables. Peel tomatoes and 
onions. 

189 



Cut all vegetables in small pieces. 

Have a salad dish well chilled either in water or ice. 

Place all chopped vegetables in the dish. Make a 
dressing of: 

Yz cup Cornett salad oil. 
Yi, cup vinegar. 
2 tbs. sugar. 

Mix well. Sprinkle the salad with salt, just a dash of 
paprika or Cayenne pepper, a half cup minced pickled beets, 
1 tbs. minced parsley. Mix well with the vegetables, then 
pour over the dressing. A boiled dressing is very nice for 
this salad, also. 

German Dressing 

(For either meats or vegetable salads.) 

Add to the yelks of 2 eggs 5 tsp vinegar. Boil in 
double boiler and stir constantly until thick. Remove from 
tire and let cool. In separate bowl put : 

2 tbs. catsup. 

1 tbs. grated horse radish. 

5 drops tobasco sauce. 

1 tsp. dry mustard. 

1 tsp. granulated sugar. 

Yi crescent of garlic, minced very fine. 

1 dill pickle, minced. 

Yi tsp. salt. 

If for meat salad, garnish dish with crisp lettuce heads. 
Mix eggs and vinegar with remainder of ingredients and 
pour over meat or vegetables. Add more vinegar to suit 
taste, if this is not sour enough. 

190 



Cream Salad Dressing 

y2 tsp. salt. 

5<2 tsp. mustard. 

^ tsp. sugar. 

1 ^^'g. slightly beaten. 

3 tbs. butter or 2 tbs. Cudahy's suetene. 

Y^ cup cream. 

Yz cup vinegar. 

Mix ingredients in order given, adding vinegar slowly. 
Cook in double boiler, stirring constantly until mixture 
thickens. 

Cool and serve on all kinds of fruit or meats requiring 
salad dressing. 

Chicken Salad 

Boil one Chicken until tender enough to shred from 
the bones. Remove all bone, fat and gristle, shred and 
season. Chop about 3 cupsful of celery fine, 4 hard boiled 
eggs cut in small pieces. 

Make a dressing of 3 well-beaten eggs, ^ pint of 
vinegar, and cook in double boiler, but do not boil. When 
thick, add 1 tbs. dry mustard, 1 tsp. corn starch, 2 tsp. salt,. 
a dash of paprika, Y^ cup melted butter, Y\ cup sugar, onion 
juice, and 6 drops lemon juice. 

When cold, stir in XYz cups of whipped cream. Mix 
thoroughly with the Chicken. Garnish dish with crisp let- 
tuce leaves, and trim with sliced hard boiled eggs and ripe 
olives. 

Chicken Salad 

Shred the Chicken in small pieces. Do not chop. 
Add equal amount of celery, chopped. Use dressing 
of 3 eggs, well beaten, 2 tbs. sugar, 1 tbs. butter or ^ tbs. 

191 



Cudahy's suetene. 1 tbs. prepared mustard. 1 tbs. j^rated 
horseradish, 1 tsp salt. Sprinkle with white pepper and a 
dash of red pepper. Heat in 1 cup of vineg-ar. W hen 
nearly cold add slowly 3 tbs. Cornett salad oil. When 
ready to serve add 1 cup whipped cream. 

Lobster Salad 

Prepare the Lobster same as the Chicken. Use the 
same kind of dressing. 

Pickled Tongue 

Boil either Beef, \'eal or Lamb tongues. Let cool and 
slice them in bowl. Sprinkle with just a little red pepper. 
Slice onions on them, and place a few l^ay leaves on top. 
Then cover with vinegar and set away in cool place for 
two days. The corned tongues are much nicer for pickled 
tongue than the fresh tongues. 

Tongue Salad or Filling for Sandwiches 

Boil and grind a fresh Beef tongue. 
Add y2 cup chopped walnuts. 
1 cup chopped celery. 
Season with salt and red pepper. 
Cover with a mayonnaise dressing. 

Garnish the dish with crisp lettuce leaves and place 
stufifed olives around the edges and on top. 

Tongue Mince Meat 

Two 4-lb. tongues. Boil and let cool. Peel and grind 
through coarse plate of meat grinder. Get 2 lbs. good 

192 



cooking apples, peel, take out core, and chop, but do not 
chop the apples too fine. 

1 lb. currants, Yz lb. citron. Cut citro" in small pieces. 

Put ground tongue in large aluminum kettle. Add 
currants, apples and citron. Now add one cup chopped 
kidney suet. Cover with two teacupsful granulated sugar 
and two cups apple cider, or one cup apricot brandy. 

Let boil slowly 20 minutes. Remove from the stove 
and seal in jars. This is not considered an economical mince 
meat, but is delicious. Season with cloves and cinnamon. 

Egg-Nog 

Ueat yelks and whites of the eggs separately; add 2 
lbs. sugar and flavoring, Yi tsp. vanilla ; beat in yelk ; add 
milk, gradually beating it in : put the beat-in whites of the 
egg on top, add a pinch of salt, and sprinkle with whiskey; 
add nutmesf. 



PRACTICAL TERMS FOR DIFFERENT CUTS OF 

PORK 

Front Quarter 

Pig or hog head. 
Cheek meat. 
Pig foot. 

Pig hock. (No foot on this cut. Cut between the shoul- 
der and first joint of the foot.) 

Arm cut of the shoulder. (Round bone in this cut.) 

Shoulder. (Has the shoulder blade.) Nice for either 
Pork steak or roast. 

Rib Pork chops. 

193 



Hind Quarter Pork 

Large loin chops. 

Loin chops. (Bone same shape as the T-bone in T-bonc 
steak.) 

Leg of Pork (not the ham). 
Pork steak off the leg (not fresh ham). 
Fresh side Pork (not fresli bacon). 
Spare ribs. 



Pork Tenderloin 

Leaf lard. 

FRONT QUARTER OF VEAL 

Veal shank. 

Veal neck. 

Veal breast. 

Arm cut of the shoulder. 

Veal shoulder (this cut has the shoulder blade). 

Rib Veal chops. 

Hind Quarter Veal 

Large loin Veal steak. 
Small loin Veal chops (not cutlets). 
Rump of Veal. 

Veal round steak (or Veal cutlets). 

Veal sweetbreads. Calves liver, Calves tongues, 
Calves brains. 



194 



PRACTICAL TERMS FOR DIFFERENT CUTS OF 
LAMB AND MUTTON 

Front Quarter 

Neck of Lamb. 

Lamb shank (not leg of Lamb). 

Breast of Lamb. 

Shoulder of Lamb. 

Arm cut of shoulder. 

Lamb chops with the shoulder blade. 

Rib Lamb chops. 

The Lamb shanks, neck and breast are stewing" meat, in 
either Lamb or Mutton. 

The whole shoulder with the blade taken out makes a 
very nice roast. 



Hind Quarter of Lamb or Mutton 

Large loin chops. 
, Kidney chops (the small loin chops without the pin 
bone). 

Leg of Lamb (not the ham). 

Lamb tongues. Lamb brains. 

Francy cuts in the Lamb. 

Frenched chops (rib chops with the meat peeled down 
half way on the rib, and the bone scraped clean of all meat, 
then dressed with a paper frill). 

English Lamb chops (the chops with the kidney left 
in and cut about 2 inches thick). 

Chump chops (chops cut 3 inches thick at the pin bone). 

Pan chops (rib chops with meat peeled back and split. 
The rib run through the split, and fastened at the base of the 
chime bone with the skewer). 

195 



Lamb rossetts (loin l)oned and rolled with strips of 
hack fat in the center, cut in fillets ahout 2 inches thick ; 
each fillet dressed with a Lamb skewer and a paper frill on 
the end of each skewer). 



PRACTICAL NAMES FOR THE DIFFERENT CUTS 

OF BEEF 

(In California, New Mexico and Arizona) 

Front Quarter Cuts 

Front shank soup bone. 

Cross rib 1st, 2nd and 3rd cut. 

The cross rib cut in two. The round bone end. 

Bone end of cross rib. The other half is called the 
shoulder clod when cut in two pieces. 

Fourth cut cross rib. Or the shoulder clod 4th cut. 

Knuckle soup bone from the front quarter. 

Point of the brisket. 

Center cut of the brisket back to the 5th rib from the 
point of brisket. Plate ; when this piece is boned and rolled 
it is called German pot roast. 

Button of the neck. 

First cut of neck. 

Second cut of neck. 

Chuck (either chuck steak or pot roast). 

Eighth and seventh rib are called chuck rib. 

Prime rib roast. This cut may be termed, de- 
pending upon the way you want it cut, boned and rolled 
(rolled prime ribs). 

Cut short (a standing rib roast). 

Rib left long and sawed (prime rib long) but not rolled. 

Skirt steak 

196 



Hind Quarter Cuts 

Rump soup bone. 

First, second and third cut rump. 

Round steak. 

After the last round steak has been cut the remainder is 
called the point or heel. 

Hind shank soup bone. 

Sirloin tips. 

Sirloin steak. 

Flat bone sirloin steak. 

Pin bone or tenderloin steak. 

Porterhouse steak. When the porterhouse has no un- 
der cut it is called the short cut steak or T-bone. 

Flank steak. 

Flank for stew. 

Smoked Meat 

Dry salt Pork. (Fresh bellies and backs cured in salt — 
not brine.) 

Pickled Pork. (Fresh bellies cured in the pickle or 
brine.) 

Bacon (smoked bellies, after they have been properly 
cured in brine). 

Ham (legs of Pork, after they have been cured in brine 
and smoked). 

Dried Beef or chipped Beef. 

Picnic hams (Pork shoulder, with the shoulder blade 
in. cured and smoked). 

Boneless butts ( Pork shoulders boned, cured and 
smoked). 

Bologna, \\'ieners, minced ham, summer sausage. 

197 



BANQUET DINNER 

This menu does not come under head of economy, but 
is suggestive for a course dinner for Thanksgiving when 
you are to have invited guests. 

Oyster Cocktail 



Soup 

Cream of Chicken 

Celery, en Branch or Queen Olives 



Boiled Striped Bass, Anchovy Sauce 

Chicken Patties 

Pear Fritters, Vanilla Sauce 



Roast Turkey Cranberry Sauce 

Sweet Potatoes, Southern Style 

Green Peas 



■ DESSERT 
(One of the selection) 
Pumpkin Pie, Whipped Cream Minced Pie 

Ice Cream and Fruit Cake or 

Plum Pudding and Brandy Saucv 

Tea, Black CofTee or Wine 



198 



WINTER MONTHS MENU 
(October, November, December, January, February, March) 

There are a number of fresh vegetables that might be 
added to the menu of these months ; but, due to the fact 
that they are liot-house vegetables and are high-priced in 
winter months, they will not come in line with those men- 
tioned under the head of "Economy." 

Fresh fruit in winter months 

Oranges, Bananas, Apples, Grape Fruit, Cranberries, 

Gooseberries, Rhubarb 



Vegetables in winter months 
Celery, Lettuce, Turnips, Carrots, Parsnips, Artichokes 

(Monday) 

(Tiiis applies to family of four) 

Breakfast 

Cream of Wheat Hot Muffins and Honey 

Coffee or Postum 



Dinner 



Vegetable Soup 

(Get 30-cent soup bone; you then have meat for stuft'ed 

Bell Peppers Tuesday) 



P>oiled Beef and Horseradish 

Spanish Red Beans Bread and Butter 

Apple Sauce and Cookies 

(Make enough Apple Sauce for Apple Tarts Tuesday) 

Tea, Coffee, Milk or Postum 

199 



Supper 

Vegetable Soup 

Liver Smothered in Onions 

Bread and Butter 

Canned Peaches Nuts and Raisins 



(Tuesday) 



Breakfast 

Rolled Uats 

Hot Cakes and Syrup 

Coffee or Postuiu 



Dinner 

Pickles or Olives Celerv or Lettuce 



Stuft'ed Bell Peppers 

Boiled Potatoes and Baked Squash 

Bread and Butter 

Apple Tarts 

Tea Coffee or Postuin 



Supper 



Pork Chops and Cream Gravy 

French Fried Potatoes 

Stewed Prunes Bread and Butter 

Coffee Tea or Postum 



(Wednesday) 



Breakfast 

Grape Nuts and Cream 
Hot Biscuits and Honey 

Grape Fruit 
Tea Coffee or Postum 

200 



Dinner 

Beef Stew, Spanish 

Boiled Potatoes Canned Corn 

Whole-wheat Bread and Butter 

Peach Cobler 

Tea Coffee or Postuni 



(Thursday) 



Supper 

Floured Shoulder Steak 

German Fried Potatoes 

Bread and Butter 

Blackberry Pie 

Pea Coffee or Postum 



Breakfast 

Corn Flakes Milk Toast 

Tea Coffee or Postum 



Dinner 

New England Boiled Dinner 
Mashed Potatoes Celery or Green Onions 

Graham Bread and Butter 
Rice Pudding- 
Tea Coffee or Postum 



Supper 

Corn Beef Hash with Eggs 

Fried Potato Cakes 

Rice Balls with Chocolate 

Tea Coffee or Postum 

201 



(Friday) 



(Saturday) 



Breakfast 

Corn Meal Mush 

Hot Cakes and Honey 

Tea Coffee or Postuni 



Dinner 

Clam Chowder 

Fried Fish 

Baked Potatoes 

White Bread and Butter 

Apple Pie 
Tea Coffee or Postuni 



Supper 

Oyster Stew 
Shoe-String Potatoes 
Corn Starch Pudding- 
Bread and Butter 
Tea Coffee or Postum 

Breakfast 

Fried Corn Meal 

Fried Bacon 

Sliced Bananas and Cream 

Butter Toast 

Tea Coffee or Postum 



Dinner 

Baked Spare Ribs 

Sweet Potatoes Creamed Oyster Plant 

Hot Rolls and Butter 

Lemon Cream Pie 

Tea Coffee or Postum 

202 



Supper 

Pork Sausage and Cream Gravy _ 

German Fried Potatoes 

Cake and Strawberry Preserves 

Tea Coffee or Postum 

Second Week (Sunday) 

Breakfast 

Rolled Oats 

French Toast with Jelly 

Ham and Eggs 
Tea Coffee or Postum 



Dinner 

Cream Tomato Soup 

Roast Pork with Apple Sauce 

Mashed Potatoes Green Peas 

White Bread and Butter 

Mince Pie 
Tea Coffee or Postum 



(Monday) 



Supper 

Green Olives 

Cold Roast Pork 

Mashed Potatoes with Brown Gravy 

Bread and Butter 

Cake and Apple Sauce 

Breakfast 

Corn Meal Mush 

Bacon 

Hot Biscuits and Butter 

Jelly 

Tea Coffee or Postum 

203 



Dinner 

Bean Soup 

Sweet Pickles 

Spare Ribs and Sauerkraut 

Boiled P)eans Boiled Potatoes with Jackets on 

Bread and Butter 

Corn Starch Custard 

Tea Cofifee or Postum 



Supper 

Bean Soup 

Sour Beans with Onions 

Breaded Lamb Chops and Cream Gravy 

Bread and Butter 

Sliced Bananas and Cream 

Drop Cakes 

Tea Coffee or Postum 



(Tuesday) 



Breakfast 



Puffed Rice Fried Corn Aleal and Honey 

Buttered Toast 

Tea Coffee or Postum 



Dinner 



Lamb Saute with Green Peas 

Creamed Mashed Potatoes 

Chocolate Pie 

Bread and Butter 

Tea Coffee or Postum 

204 



Supper 

Green Olives 
Boiled Rice and Spanish Sausage 

Creamed Oyster Plant 

Whole-Wheat Bread and Butter 

Bread Pudding, Vanilla Sauce 

Tea Coffee or Postum 

(Wednesday) 

Breakfast 

Oranges 

Cream of Wheat 

Hot Waffles and Syrup 

Tea Coffee or Postum 



Dinner 

Celery 

Cream Tomato Soup 

German Pot Roast and Noodles 

Creamed Turnips Boiled Potatoes 

Mince Pie 

Bread and Butter 

Tea Coffee or Postum 



Supper 

Combination Salad 

Pot Roast in Brown Gravy 

Fried Mashed Potato Cakes 

Hot Biscuits and Butter 

Baked Apples 
Tea Coffee or Postum 

205 



(Thursday) 

Breakfast 

Grape Nuts 

Potato Hot Cakes with Syrup 

Tea Coffee or Postum 

Dinner 

Sweet Pickles 

Roast Breast of Veal with Dressing 

Stewed Tomatoes (canned) Baked Potatoes 

Pumpkin Pie 

Graham Bread and Butter 

Tea Coffee or Postum 



(Friday) 



Supper 

Hamburger Steak and Onions 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 

Tapioca Pudding 

Graham Bread and Butter 

Tea Coffee or Postum 

Breakfast 

Oat Meal Mush 

Hot Graham Rolls with Butter 

Potato Pancakes 

Tea Coffee or Postum 



Dinner 

Olives 
Braised Ribs of Beef and Potato Pan Cakes 

or Baked Halibut and Tartar Sauce 

(Lima Beans (dried) 

Suet Pudding, Lemon Sauce 

White Bread and Butter 

Tea Coffee or Postum 

206 



Supper 

Fried Oysters 

Hot Rolls and Butter 

Tea Coffee or Postum 

(Saturday) 

Breakfast 

Puft'ed Wheat 
Hot Waffles and Syrup 

Butter 
Tea Coffee or Postum 



Dinner 



Celery 

Beef Stew with Spag^hetti 

Boiled Potatoes Boiled Hominy 

Raisin Pie 

White Bread and Butter 

Tea Coffee or Postum 



(Tuesday) 



Supper 

Sour Pickles 
Chipped Beef and Cream on Toast 

Shoe String- Potatoes 

Potato Cake and Stewed Peaches 

AA'^hole-wheat Bread and Butter 

Tea Coffee or Postum 

Breakfast 

French Toast and Jelly 

Link Pork Sausage 
Tea Coffee or Postum 

207 



Dinner 

Sweet Pickles 

Lamb Stew with Dumplings 

Baked Macaroni and Cheese 

Green Peas (canned) Boiled Potatoes 

Plain Cake and Stewed Prunes 

White Bread and Butter 

Tea Cofifee or Postum 



Supper 

Celery 

Breaded Pork Chops and Cream Gravy 

French Fried Potatoes 

Corn Bread and Butter 

Prune Whip 
Tea Coffee or Postum 



(Wednesday) 



Breakfast 



Poached Egg on Toast 

Doughnuts Strawberry Preserves 

Tea Coffee or Postum 



Dinner 

Fruit Salad 

Pearl Barley Soup 

Boiled Beef and Spaghetti 

Creamed Corn (canned) 

Peach Cobler 

Bread and Butter 

Tea Coffee or Postum 

208 



(Thursday) 



Supper 

Pearl Barley Soup 

Dixie Hash on Toast 

German Fried Potatoes 

Corn Fritters and Syrup 

A\' hole-wheat Bread and FUitter 

Hot Chocolate 

Breakfast 

Grape Nuts 
Hot A\'affles and Syrup 
Tea Coffee or Postum 



Dinner 

Horseradish Pickles 

Sauerkraut and Spare Ribs 

Lima Beans (dried) Boiled Potatoes 

Bread Pudding 

Rye Bread and Butter 

Tea Coffee or Postum 



(Friday) 



Supper 

V^eal Liver and Onions 

Potatoes au Gratin 

Apple Pie Cheese 

Raisin Bread and Butter 

Tea Coffee or Postum 

Breakfast 

Oatmeal Mush 

Milk Toast 

Soft Boiled Eggs 

Tea Coffee or Postum 

209 



Dinner 

Clam Chowder 

Fried Sand Dabs 

Scalloped Potatoes String Beans (canned) 

Cottage Pudding and Lemon Sauce 

White Bread and Butter 



Supper 

Celery 

Clam Chowder 

Fish Balls with Cream Sauce 

Chocolate Cup Cakes with Blackberries (canned) 

Bread and Butter 

Tea Cofifee or Postum 



(Saturday) 



Breakfast 

Corn Flakes 
Hot Cakes and Honey 

Baked Apples 
Tea Coffee or Postum 



Dinner 

Sour Pickles 

Veal Loaf Baked Pork and Beans 

Baked Potatoes 

Cranberry Pie 

Brown Bread and Butter 

Tea Coffee or Postum 



Supper 

Stuffed Olives 

Veal Loaf with Brown Gravy Baked Pork and Beans 

Cake and Lemon Sauce 

Tea Coffee or Postum 

210 



Fourth Week (Sunday) 

Breakfast 

Bacon and Eggs 

Buttered Toast 

Minced Brown Potatoes 

Tea Coffee or Postum 



Dinner 

Chicken Broth 

Baked Chicken with Dressing 

Asparagus Tips on Toast Mashed Potatoes 

Cake Cranberry Sauce 

White Bread and Butter 

Tea Coffee or Postum 



Supper 

Celery 

Cold Chicken with Cranberry Sauce 

Fried Mashed Potato Cakes 

Cake and Peaches (canned) 

Bread and Butter 

Tea Coffee or Postum 



(Monday) 



Breakfast 

Stewed Prunes 

Corn Meal Mush 

French Toast and Jelly 

Butter 
Tea Coffee or Postum 

211 



Dinner 

Ripe Olives or Pickles 

Bean Soup 

Irish- Stew 

Boiled Potatoes Boiled Beans 

White Bread and Butter 

Peach Cobbler 
Tea Coffee or Postuni 

Bread and Butter 
Tea Coffee or Post urn 



(Tuesday) 



Supper 

Olives Bean Soup 

Dixie Hash on Toast 

Boiled Beans with Sliced Onions 

Minced Brown Potatoes 

Graham Bread and Butter 

Cottage Pudding with Vanilla Sauce 

Tea Coffee or Postum 

Breakfast 

Sliced Oranges 
Fried Corn Meal Mush 
Honey Butter 

Egg Omelette 
Tea Coffee or Postum 



Dinner 

Celery 

Breaded Breast of Lamb 

Baked Macaroni and Cheese Mashed Potatoes 

Whole-wheat Bread and Butter 

Apple Pie Cheese 

Tea Coffee or Postum 

212 



(Wednesday) 



Supper 

Apple Salad 

Hamburger Steak Spanish 

French Fried Potatoes 

Hot Rolls and Butter 

Raisin Pie 

Tea , Coffee or Postum 

Breakfast 

Puffed Rice 

Buckwheat Cakes and Sausage 

Tea Coffee or Postum 



Dinner 

Fried Rabbit and Cream Gravy 

Asparagus Tips Scalloped Potatoes 

White Bread and Butter 

Cocoanut Custard 
Tea Coffee or Postum 



Supper 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Swiss Steak German Fried Potatoes 

Graham Bread and Butter 

Rice Custard 

Tea Coffee or Postum 



(Thursday) 



Breakfast 

Sliced Oranges 
Puffed Rice and Cream 
French Toast with Jelly 

Butter 
Tea Coffee or Postum 

213 



Dinner 

Lettuce or Celery 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Fried Liver with Onions 

Scalloped Potatoes Stewed Tomatoes 

Graham Bread and Butter 

Rice Pudding 

Tea Cofifee or Postum 



Supper 

Green Olives 

Lamb Chops 

Green Peas (canned) German Fried Potatoes) 

White Bread and Butter 

Chocolate Rice Balls 
Tea Coffee or Postum 



(Friday) 



Breakfast 

Germea Cream of Wheat 

Potato Pan Cakes with Syrup 

Tea Coffee or Postum 



Dinner 

Sweet Pickles 

Fried Fresh Tripe or Tripe Stew Spanish 

Fried Smelt with Tartar Sauce 

Cod Fish and Cream 

Baked Potatoes Creamed Boiled Onions 

French Bread and Butter 

Raisin Pie 

214 



(Saturday) 



Supper 

Celery or Horseradish Pickles 
Codfish Balls with Cream Sauce 

Spanish Omelette 

Whole-wheat Bread and Butter 

Tea Coffee or Postum 



Breakfast 

Corn Flakes and Cream 
Hot Biscuits and Honey 
Tea Coffee or Postum 



Dinner 

Pot Roast Beef with Spaghetti 

Lima Beans (dried) Browned Potatoes 

Corn Bread and Butter 

Pumpkin Pie 
Tea Coffee or Postum 



Supper 

Baked Meat Pie 

Minced Brown Potatoes Fried Hominy 

White Bread and Butter 

Baked Apples 

Fifth Week (Sunday) 

Breakfast 

Stewed Prunes 

Ham or Bacon 
Poached Eggs on Toast 
Tea Coffee or Postum 

215 



Dinner 

Celery 

Chicken Consomme 

Chicken Fricassee with DumpHngs 

Asparagus Tips on Toast 

Macaroni an Gratin Creamed Mashed Potatoes 

Fruit Salad 

Steamed Suet Pudding, Brandy Sauce 

White Bread and Butter 

Tea Coffee or Postum 



Supper 

Green Olives 

Chicken Patties Oyster Stew 

Hashed Brown Potatoes 

Graham Bread and Butter 

Sliced Bananas and Cream 



216 



SUMMER AND WINTER MONTHS MENUS 

Following" are only suggestions for a change each day 
for a period of thirty days each. And when you add what 
you have been accustomed to having to this menu it will 
be a great relief to realize that you can have a constant 
change at all times without the worry from day to day for 
each separate meal. The expense of the table for a period 
of thirty days each applies to a family of four grown people. 
For a family of two divide the month's total by two. And 
you will appreciate the fact that it is possible to have a large 
variety, and yet, by following the instructions of how to 
buy. the expense for your table will be very moderate. 

(Sunday) Breakfast 

Stewed Raisins 

Salt Mackerel 

Hot Biscuits and Maple Syrup 

Butter 
Tea, Coflfee, Postum or Milk 



Dinner 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Fruit Salad 

Fried Spring Chicken with Cream Gravy 

Fresh Garden Peas Mashed Potatoes 

White Bread and Butter 

Tea, Cofifee, Postum or Milk 



Supper 

Celery 

Fried Oysters 

French Fried Potatoes Garden Peas 

Graham Bread and Butter 
Potato Cake with Sliced Pineapple 

217 



(Monday) Breakfast 

Baked Apples 

Grape Nuts 

Hot Waffles, Maple Syrup 

Cofifee, Tea, Postum, Chocolate or Milk 



Dinner 

Spring- Lamb Stew with Dumplings 

Boiled Potatoes Green Peas 

Lettuce Salad 

Bread and Butter 

Sponge Cake with Lemon Sauce 

Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 



Supper 

Sliced Bananas, Mayonnaise Dressing 

Floured Shoulder Steak 
Country Gravy Lyonnaise Potatoes 

Hot Muffins 
Tea, Coffee, Postum, Chocolate or Milk 

(Tuesday) Breakfast 

Grape Fruit 

Shredded Wheat Biscuits and Cream 

Corn Muffins and Syrup 

Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 



Dinner 

Macaroni Soup 
Roast V^eal with Dressing- 
Creamed Carrots Boiled Potatoes 
White Bread and Butter 
Lemon Pie 
Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 

218 



(Wednesday) 



Supper 

Celery 

Macaroni Soup 

Breaded Pork Chops 

Shoe-String Potatoes 

Corn Bread and Butter 

Bread Pudding 

Tea, Coflfee, Postum or Milk 



Breakfast 

Sliced Bananas 
Fried Corn Meal with Honey 

Butter 
Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 



Dinner 

Green Onions 

Stuffed Lamb Hearts 

Spaghetti Italian 

Fried Parsnips Baked Potatoes 

Cocoanut Custard Pie 

Graham Bread and Butter 

Tea. Coffee. Postum or Milk 



Supper 

Stewed Heart with Spanish Sauce 

Minced Brown Potatoes 

Whole- wheat Bread and Butter 

Drop Cakes with Stewed Pears 

219 



(Thursday) Breakfast 

Stewed Prunes 

Buckwheat Pan Cakes with Sausage 

Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 



Dinner 

Pea Soup 
Sauerkraut and Weiners 

Scalloped Potatoes 

French Bread and Butter 

Tapioca Pudding 

Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 



Supper 

Chipped Beef and Cream 

German Fried Potatoes Creamed Oyster Plant 

White Bread and Butter 

Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 

Cranberry Sauce with Cake 

(Friday) Breakfast 

Sliced Oranges 

Hot Cross Buns 

Syrup or Honey 

Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 



Dinner 

Clam Chowder 

Fried Salmon 

German Pot Roast with Noodles 

Creamed Turnips Potatoes au Gratin 

Graham Bread and Butter 

Chocolate Cream Pie 
Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 

220 



Supper 

Green Onions 

Salmon Loaf Brown Hash 

Baked Potatoes 

Indian Pudding 

Graham INIiiffins and Butter 

Tea, Cofifee. Postum or Milk 



(Saturday) 

Breakfast 

Cranberry Sauce 

Egg Omelette 

Buttered Toast 

Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 



Dinner 



Sour Pickles 

Bean Soup 

Hot Meat Loaf or Vienna Roll 

Boston Baked Beans Garden Peas 

Boston Brown Bread and Butter 

Apple Pie 

Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 



Supper 



Ripe Olives 

Scrambled Brains and Eggs 

White Bread and Butter 

Cup Custard 



221 



(Sunday) 

Breakfast 

Rex Ham or Bacon 

Soft Boiled Eggs 

Buttered Toast 

German Fried Potatoes 

Tea, Cofifee, Postum or Milk 



Dinner 

Sliced Cucumbers, Mayonnaise Dressing 

Macaroni Soup 

Roast Leg Spring Lamb with jelly 

Macaroni and Cheese 

Asparagus Tips on Toast 

Whole-wheat Bread and Butter 

Plum Pudding, Lemon Sauce 

Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 



Supper 

Sliced Tomatoes 

Cold Roast Lamb 

Sour String Beans French Fried Potatoes 

Graham Bread and Butter 

Pumpkin Pie, Whipped Cream 

Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 



(Monday) 



Breakfast 

Cream of Wheat with Cream 

French Toast with Jelly 

Scrambled Eggs 

Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 

222 



Dinner 

Radishes, Green Onions, Lettuce or Celery 

Vegetable Soup 

Soup Meat with Horseradish 

Boiled Potatoes 

White Bread and Butter 

Crackers 
Prune Whip with Cake 
Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 



(Tuesday) 



Supper 

Lettuce and Egg Salad 

Stuffed Bell Peppers 

Minced Brown Potatoes 

Raisin Bread and Butter 

Jelly Roll with Stewed Prunes 

Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 



Breakfast 

Baked Apples 

Hot Waffles and Syrup 

Butter 

Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 



Dinner 

Green Onions, Ripe Tomatoes or Olives 

Spare Ribs and Sweet Potatoes 

Corn Fritters and Vanilla Sauce 

Corn Saute 

Graham Bread and Butter 

Fruit Jello with Cream 
Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 

223 



Supper 

Lobster Salad 

Breaded I'reast of. Lamb with Tomato Sauce 

Boiled Hominy Baked Potatoes 

Bread and Butter 

Corn Fritters and Maple Syru]) 

Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 



(Wednesday) 



Breakfast 

Sliced Oranges 

Chipped Beef and Cream 

Hot Biscuits and Butter 

Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 



Dinner 

IMinced Green Chili, Tomatoes and Onions 

Boiled Ham Shank and Cabbage 

String Beans Boiled Potatoes 

French Bread and Butter 

Blackberry Cobbler 

Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 



Supper 

Lettuce with French Dressing 
Shoulder Steak Spanish 

Succotash 

Corn Bread with Honey 

German Fried Potatoes 

Plain Cake with Blackberries (canned) 

Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 

224 



(Thursday) 

Breakfast 

Stewed Peaches 

Corn Flakes and Cream 

Hot Cakes and Syrup 

Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 



Dinner 



Sliced Cucumbers with PVench Dressing- 
Soup Puree of Veal and Lamb 
Breaded Shoulder Veal Steak 
Fresh Lima P)eans I^yonnaise Potatoes 
Graham Bread and Butter 

Peach Pie 
Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 



(Friday) 



Supper 

Green Olives 

Swiss Steak 

French Fried Potatoes Lima Beans 

Whole-wheat Bread and Butter 

Cream Custard 

Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 



Breakfast 

Grape Fruit 

Grape Nuts and Cream 

Poached Eggs on Toast 

Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 

225 



Dinner 

Oven Roast IJeef or P.aked Filet of Sole 

l5ro\vn Potatoes Baked Creamed Celery 

White Bread and Butter 

Rhubarb Pie 

Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 



Supper 

' Sliced Tomatoes 

Baked Meat Pie or Fish Balls with Cream 
Shoe-String- Potatoes 
Graham Bread and Butter 

Gooseberry Pie 
Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 



(Saturday) 



Breakfast 

Sliced Bananas and Cream 

Shredded Wheat Biscuits and Cream 

Potato Pan Cakes and Pork Sausage 

Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 



Dinner 

Pearl Barley Soup 

Dixie Hash on Toast 

Baked Summer Squash Boiled Potatoes 

White Bread and Butter 

Cake and Stewed Plums (canned) 

226 



Supper 

Combination Salad 

Lamb Chops 

Green Peas (fresh) Minced Brown Potatoes 

Nut Bread and Butter 

Apple Sauce 

Tea. Coffee, Postum or Milk 



(Sunday) 



Breakfast 

Cantaloupe 

Fried Corn Meal Mush 

Scrambled Eggs 

Coffee Cake 

lea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 



Dinner 

Horseradish Pickles 

Cream Chicken Soup 

Roast Veal with Dressing 

Green Corn on Cob Mashed Potatoes 

White Bread and Butter 

Sliced Peaches and Cream Economy Cake 

Iced Tea, Milk or Punch 



Supper 

Ripe Olives 

Cold Roast Chicken 

Asparagus Salad Sweet Potatoes 

Graham Bread and Butter 

Ice Cream and Cake 
Iced Tea, Milk or Chocolate 

227 



(Monday) 

Breakfast 

Cantaloupe 

Grape Nuts and Cream 

Bacon and Eggs 

Buttered Toast 

Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 



Dinner 

Combination Salad 

Boiled Ox Tongue, Tomato Sauce 

Corn on the Cob Boiled Potatoes 

\\'hite Bread and Butter 

Ice-cold Watermelon 

Iced Tea. Lemonade or Grape Juice Punch 



Supper 

Pickled Beets 

Boiled Ham, Potato Salad 

Cottage Cheese with Cream 

Rye Bread and Butter 

Prune Whip, Cake or Cookies 

Iced Tea, Buttermilk, or Peach Punch 



(Tuesday) 



Breakfast 

Strawberries and Cream 
Rolled Oats 
Spanish Omelette 
Raised Doughnuts 

Tea Coffee or Postum 

228 



Dinner 

Radishes Tongue Salad 

Stuffed Shoulder Lamb 

Fried Parsnips Baked Potatoes 

Graham Bread and Butter 

Sliced Peaches and Cream 

Iced Tea, Ice Milk or Lemonade 



Supper 

Dill Pickles 

Colt Roast Lamb with Jelly 

Sliced Iced Tomatoes with Green Onions 

Minced Brown Potatoes 

French Bread and Butter 

Apple Pie with Ice Cream 

Iced Tea, Ice-cold Buttermilk or Lemonade 

(Wednesday) 

Breakfast 

White Figs with Cream 
Shredded Wheat Biscuits 

Coffee Cake 
Tea Coffee or Postum 



Dinner 

Cucumber and Tomatoes Sliced with French Dressing 

Veal Pot Pie with Dumplings 

Boiled White Beans Mashed Potatoes 

Whole-wheat Bread and Butter 

Fruit Jello with Whipped Cream 

Iced Tea. Ice Milk or Strawberry Punch 

229 



Supper 

Wilted Lettuce 

Shrimp Salad 

Cold Veal Loaf with Hard-Boiled Egg 

Sour Beans with Onions 

Swiss Cheese with Rye Bread 

Watermelon 

Iced Tea, Ice Milk or Lemonade 



(Thursday) 



Breakfast 

Casaba 

Grape Nuts with Cream 

Buckwheat Cakes with Syrup 

Butter 

Tea Coffee or Postum 



Dinner 

Sweet Pickles 
Pig Knuckles with Cabbage 

Spaghetti Italian 
White Bread and Butter 
Blackberries, Cake and Cream 
Iced Tea, Iced Milk or Lemonade 



Supper 

Cabbage Salad 

Sweet Pickled Lamb Tongues 

Fried Potato Cakes Creamed Oyster Plant 

French Bread and Butter 

Frozen Corn-Starch Custard 

Vanilla Cakes 

Iced Tea, Iced Buttermilk or Lemonade 

230 



(Friday) 

(Breakfast) 

Blackberries and Cream 

Puffed Rice 

Soft Boiled Eggs with Toast 

Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 



Dinner 

Tomatoes, Green Chili and Onion Chopped Fine 
Baked Salmon with Cream Sauce or 

Short Ribs Beef with Horseradish 
Boiled Potatoes String Beans 

Graham Bread and Butter 

Srawberry Short-Cake 

Iced Milk or Peach Punch 

Tea Coft'ee or Postum 



Supper 

Green Onions 

Combination Meat Lunch of Salmon Salad 

(2 slices Minced Ham, 2 slices Pressed Corn Beef, 

2 slices Cold Roast Beef, 2 slices Summer Sausage, 

(Lettuce, Stuffed Olives) 

Potato Salad 

French Bread and Butter 

Frozen Peach Sherbert and Cake 

Teed Tea, Iced Milk or Grape Juice 



(Saturday) 



Breakfast 

Peaches and Cream 

Corn Meal Mush 

Doughnuts 

Coffee. Tea, Postum or Milk 

231 



Dinner 

Celery 

Breaded Shoulder Veal Chops, Paprika Sauce 

Boiled Rice Green Lima Beans 

Steamed Potatoes 

Bread and Butter 

Blackberry Cobbler 

Iced Tea, Iced Milk or Lemonade 



Supper 

Sliced Tomatoes, Mayonnaise Dressing" 

Cold Hamburger Loaf, Hard Boiled Eggs 

String Beans with Vinegar and Onions 

Chocolate Rice Balls 

Nut Bread and Butter 

Iced Tea, Milk or Chocolate 

SUMMER MONTHS MENUS 

(Sunday) Breakfast 

Grape Fruit 

Bacon and Eggs 

Hot Mufifins and Jelly 

Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 



Dinner 

Sweet Pickles 

Shrimp Salad 

Fried Spring Chicken, Cream Gravy 

Mashed Potatoes Garden Peas 

Baked Macaroni and Cheese 

Graham Bread and Butter 

Strawberry Short-Cake. Whipped Cream 

iced Tea, Lemonade or Buttermilk 

232 



Supper 

Sliced Tomatoes, Mayonnaise Dressing- 
Cold Sliced Meat Loaf 
Sour String Beans 
White Bread and Butter 
Ice Cream and Cocoanut Cake 
Iced Tea, Milk or Punch 



(Monday) 



Breakfast 

Sliced Peaches 

Potato Pan Cakes and Honey 

Tea, Coffee or Postum 



Dinner 

Sliced Cucumbers 

Pot Roast and Noodles 

Corn Saute Sweet Potatoes 

Graham Bread and Butter 

Watermelon 

Supper 

Dill Pickles 

Cold Roast Beef 

Pickled Beet and Egg Salad 

Swiss Cheese and Rye Bread Butter 

Cherry Pie 

Iced Tea or Lemonade 



(Tuesday) 



Breakfast 

Cream of Wheat 

Hot Cakes and Syrup 

Tea, Coffee or Milk 

233 



Dinner 

Sour Pickles 
Breaded Lamb Chops, Cream Gravy- 
Spinach and Hard Boiled Eggs 

Hashed Brown Potatoes 

Whole-Wheat Bread and Butter 

Preserved Quinces and Drop Cake 

Teed Tea. Milk or Lemonade 



Supper 

Stuffed Tomatoes 

Sardines 

Cold White Beans with Vinegar and Onions 

Potato Salad 

French Bread and Butter 

Strawberries and Cream 

Iced Tea, Milk or Lemonade 



(Wednesday) 



Breakfast 

White Figs and Cream 

Corn Flakes with Cream 

Coffee Cake 

Tea, Coffee, Milk or Postum 



Dinner 

Combination Salad 

Roast Leg of Lamb, Mint Sauce 

Green Peas Mashed Potatoes 

Raisin Bread and Butter 

Cherry Pie 

Teed Tea or Lemonade 

234 



Supper 

Stuffed Ripe Tomatoes 

Cold Pressed Veal 

Creamed Potatoes, Salad Cakes 

Rye Bread and Butter 

Nuts and Raisins 

Fresh Peach Cobler 

Vanilla Ice Cream 

Iced Tea, Milk or Roman Punch 

(Thursday) Breakfast 

Strawberries and Cream 

Puffed Rice 

Boiled Ham and Egg Omelette 

Buttered Toast 

Tea, Coffee, Postum or Milk 



Dinner 

Waldorf Salad 

Braised Beef 

Cauliflower Creamed New Potatoes 

Graham Bread and Butter 

Lemon Cream Pie 

Iced Tea, Lemonade or Punch 



Supper 

Ilorseradish Pickles 

Minced Ham (one slice each to the person) 

Liver Sausage, Bologna, Head Cheese 

Potato Salad 

White Bread and Butter 

Cake and Sliced Peaches 

Iced Tea, Milk or Punch 

235 



(Friday) 

Breakfast 

Stewed Prunes 

Corn Flakes 

French Toast and Honey Butter 

Tea, Coffee or Postum 



Dinner 



Water Cress (wilted) 

Baked Barricuda, Tartar Sauce, or Lamb Curry and Rice 

Green Corn on Cob 

Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Graham Bread and Butter 

Prune Whip with Whipped Cream 



(Saturday) 



Supper 

Celery 

Sardines 

Rex Baked Pork and Beans 

Shoe-String Potatoes 

W^hite Bread and Butter 

Fruit jello 



Breakfast 

Cantaloupe 

Corn Meal Mush 

Egg Omelette 

Tea, Coffee or Postum 

236 



Dinner 

Pickled Beets or Green Onions 

Breaded Breast of Veal. Tomato Sauce 

Cream Fresh Lima Beans 

Boiled Potatoes 

^^^^ole-Wheat Bread and Butter 

Loganberry Pie 
Iced Tea, Lemonade or Puncli 



Supper 

Fresh Sliced Tomatoes, Cucumbers and Onions 

Minced Veal on Toast 

Lyonnaise Potatoes Minced Carrots 

^^'hite Bread and Butter 

Apple Pie 

Iced I ea. Lemonade or Punch 



237 



TIME TABLE AND SUGGESTIONS FOR USE OF 
THE FIRELESS COOKER 

It is only within recent years that the fireless cooker 
lias become a great factor for convenience, labor-saving 
and economy. I could write a volume in favor of the fire- 
less cooker, and its many advantages over the old style 
of cooking with either gas, coal or wood range. But, in 
view of the fact that there are so many firms and different 
makes of the fireless cooker, who have spent vast sums in 
advertising their particular kind and make, it really needs 
no introduction to the average housewife, other than a time 
table and recipes for preparing and cooking foods in the 
same. 

The two important things in favor of the fireless 
cooker are worthy of much consideration, namely the saving 
of fuel and the small amount of shrinkage in all foods 
cooked in the fireless. When the manager of the home 
realizes that she can prepare her dinner, put it in the fire- 
less, go away and do her shopping, calling, or attend to 
other duties of the home, and when meal-time arrives have 
a most delicious dinner, hot and ready to serve, without the 
strenuous effort of standing over a hot range in the cooking 
of the meal, it surely is worth much consideration. By 
the evaporation of steam, meats, vegetables and fruits, 
cooked on top of the stove, lose much of their juice and 
Havor. With the fireless this is not possible, for it must 
be air tight to properly do satisfactory work. It is needless 
to say more in favor of the fireless as only experience with 
the use of the same will demonstrate its many advantages 
and its great economy in fuel and labor. 

Cost of Construction 
There are numberless kinds and makes. All kinds of 
prices, ranging from $8 to $30. These no doubt have a much 

238 



better looking appearance than a home-constructed tireless. 
Therefore the problem for you to solve is simply a question 
of how much the appearance on the outside of the tireless is 
really worth to you. If you can build one that will bake 
bread, meats and cakes, and stew and boil any and all kinds 
of meats, fruits and vegetables, absolutely satisfactory in 
every respect, are you still willing, and can you really afiford 
to pay a large sum for one simply for the looks? The fire- 
less cooker used to test most of the tireless cooker recipes 
in this book was home-made. And cost exactly $3.75. 

This cooker will bake, boil or stew three things at a 
time. And it is very simple in its construction. Of course 
you can add much more to it in the way of cooking utensils, 
and yet have a very cheap tireless cooker, compared with 
what it will cost to l:»uy one all ready made. Here is the 
material necessary to make a v$3.75 tireless: 

Two square boxes, such as cheese boxes $ .20 

One 25-lb. size lard can .20 

Insulation, such as felt, cotton, hair or wool blankets 

(any material of that nature to retain the heat) 35 

Board for lid .20 

Hinges ^ 10 

Lock 10 

Zinc to hold in the insulation, and to keep dirt and 

water from dropping into the insulation 60 

I'wo stones or radiators, to keep the heat in the cooker 1.50 

One each 10 lb. and 5 lb. lard pail 25 

Zinc for inside of lid --. 25 

Total $3.75 

If you care to add $2.00 more to the cost, you can pur- 
chase aluminum-ware instead of the lard pails. You then 

239 



have a much better cooker, as well as a very cheap and good 
fireless cooker — one that will do all that the more expensive 
work will do. And yet at a cost within reach of every per- 
son. It will soon pay for its cost of construction in the 
saving of fuel. 

How to Build a Fireless Cooker 

Get the two boxes, one enough larger than the other 
to leave a space between the two of about one-and-a-half 
inches. They must necessarily be the same height. Take 
small pieces, about II4 or IjX inches in thickness and nail 
in picture frame shape or square all around the three sides 
of the small box ; the same for the outside of the lid. Fill 
this hollow space with insulation and pack it solid and firm. 
Then take the larger box and nail to the cleats all around 
the small box. Or. in other words, have the two boxes 
made in one by the small box setting inside the larger one, 
but with all sides, lid and bottom insulated. Now place 
your 25-lb. lard can in the center of small box. Place insu- 
lation all around the can. I-'ill it up Icxel with the top of 
the lard can. Have the zinc cut to fit the top of the box 
with a hole cut in center to allow the lard can to just come 
through the zinc. Have a plumber solder the zinc to the 
lard can. Then have the cooker all ready for the lid. Insu- 
late the lid as you did the bottom of the cooker; place cleats 
of one inch in lumber all around the edge, so they will 
drop down about half an inch all around the top edge of 
the box. Screw on the hinges, and place a little hook or 
fastener lock on the lid to hold it down air tight, and place 
the zinc on the inside of the top part of the lid, to keep 
steam from escaping. The fireless is then ready for use. 
Get two radiators, and be careful in heating them the first 
time, so as not to crack them. 

Always leave your fireless open when not in use, as it 

240 



gives time and chance to air, and will always have a sweet, 
clean smell. 

Stew or Boiling with the Fireless 

It is necessary to use only one radiator to stew or hoi! 
with. The one radiator to lie placed in the bottom of the 
fireless. 

All foods, to be cooked in this manner, should be cooked 
to a boiling temperature before placing in the fireless, lids 
placed on the cooking utensil and the lid to the cooker 
closed as quickly as possible. 

Roasting or Baking 

For roasting or baking, it is necessary in the use of a 
home-made fireless to use two radiators. This is done by 
placing one in the bottom and the other on top. As space 
will not permit a detailed time table for each and every 
fruit, meat and vegetable, it will require judgment and ex- 
perience to obtain the most satisfactory results until you 
have become familiar with the use of the fireless. 

For example: A utensil full of liquid will require 
more time than when l4 or ^ full. A thick roast or boiling 
l)iece takes more time than a thin piece of meat. Whole 
fruit and vegetables will require more time than the same 
cut up in small pieces. 

Time Table for Roasting 

Veal, Mutton or Pork, well done, about 28 minutes to 
the lb. 

Roast Beef, Squabs, Rabbits (wild), 24 minutes to the 
lb. 

Fish, all kinds, thick, such as Salmon, Halibut, Rock 
Cod, etc., 28 minutes per lb. 

241 



Stuffed breast of W-al. I. ami) and spare ribs, 25 minutes 
to the lb. 

Time table tor boiling and stewiui^': Allow one hour 
more time than when cooked on top of stove. 

Roasting or Baking Poultry 

To ])roperly l)ake a Chicken, that is not too old, l)ake 
abt)ut 4 hours, if Chicken has first been parboiled before 
placing- in the tireless, allow only al)out one and a half liours. 

Stewing Meats 

Stewed Chicken: Arrange same as for cooking" with 
gas or coal stove. Place in tireless; leave in the fireless S'/j 
hours. Use two radiators. 

Stewed \^eal : Two radiators. Cut in small pieces. 
Leave 4 hours. 

Stewed Beef: lAvo radiators. Cut in small pieces. 
Leave 3 hours. 

Stewed Rabbit: Two radiators. Cut in small pieces. 
Leave Sy? hours. 

Baking Pies 

For fruit pies prepare same as usual, using two radia- 
tors. Leave in the fireless about one hour and a quarter. 

Baking Cream Pies 

Cream pies will l)ake in about -V; of an hoiu" to one hour. 

Baking Light Bread 

Let bread raise same as for regular baking. Place in 
fireless and leave for 1% to 2 hours. Space will not permit 
for recipes for cooking all kinds of vegetables, custards, 

242 



Fish and pastry. But there is nothing that cannot be cooked 
in the fireless, and with much better flavor, and a great deal 
less expense for fuel. Experience will be the best instructor 
for the use of the home-made fireless. No home can afTord 
to be without one. It is true that a standard make will 
probably give better and quicker results, but if you can 
not afl:'ord to buy one ready made, make one yourself. 



243 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



Page 

Advice in Buying Pork 48 

Bacon and Hams 97 

Banquet Dinner 1 198 

Contrast ~ 12 

Cooked Meats 113 

Cost to Build a Fireless Cooker at Home 239 

Crown Roast of Lamb _ 69 

Custards 183 

Descriptive Cuts of the Front Quarter of Beef 27 

Diets and Dainties for the Sick Room 132 

Different Cuts of Veal 78 

Ducks 87 

Economy in Buying Meat 11 

Education in Economy 3 

English Lamb Chops „ 68 

Front Quarter of Beef 18 

How to Build a Fireless Cooker at Home 240 

Judgment in Selection 52 

Lamb and Mutton 61 

Lamb Hearts, Liver and Tongue 68 

Lard, Compound and Suetene 107 

Leg of Lamb 62 

Measures 182 

Per Cent of Waste in Lamb Chops 67 

Poultry, Fish and Oysters 82 

Practical Questions and Answers 121 

Practical Terms for Different Cuts of Beef 196 

Practical Terms for All Smoked and Cured Meats 197 

Practical Terms for Different Cuts of Mutton and Lamb 195 

Practical terms for Different Cuts of Pork 193 

Practical Terms for Different Cuts of Veal 194 

Quantity of Meat per Person 186 

Rabbits 92 

Round Bone Shoulder Lamb Chops 68 

Saddle of Lamb 73 

Selection of Meat 7 

Separate Cuts of Pork , 54 

Shoulder Lamb Chops 65 

Shrinkage in Cooking the Rump Roast 44 

Side of Untrimmed Pork 50 

Soaps 1 1 1 

Soup Bones 20 

Squabs or Pigeons 90 

Table of Weights and Measures (Abbreviations) 181 

The Hind Quarter of Beef 33 

Things of Importance in the Kitchen 138 

Time for Baking Bread, Cakes and Puddings 182 

245 



Page 

Time Table and Suggestions for Use of the Fireless Cooker-— 238 

Time Table for Baking All Kinds of Roast Meats 183 

Time Table for Cooking Cereals 185 

Time Table for Cooking Eggs 185 

Time Table for Cooking Poultry, Fish and Vegetables 184 

Time Table for Cooking with the Fireless Cooker .- 241 

Time Table for Frying Chops, Smoked Meats, Croquettes, 

Fritters, Fish, Potatoes, Etc. 185 

Time Table for Roasting and Frying Meats - 135 

Turkeys 86 

Veal IZ 

What You Should Weigh to Be in Normal Health 137 

Winter and Summer Months Menu 199-237 

Recipes — 

Apple Dumplings 151 

Apple Pie 152 

Beef Stew - 160 

Biscuit Dumplings 153 

Braised Beef, Veal or Lamb -.- 153 

Breast of Lamb 145 

Brisket Corn Beef - 165 

Broiled Kidneys 164 

Butcher's Hamburger Steak 174 

Chicken Stew - 163 

Chicken Tamales 158 

Christmas Turkey 178 

Chuck Veal Roast 145 

Cooking an Old Turkey 139 

Cranberry Sauce 154 

Drop Dumplings 153 

Economy Pork Cake 151 

Enchiladas 159 

Farmers' Cake 149 

Fricasseed Chicken 178 

Fried Liver and Spanish Sauce 143 

Fried Rabbit 177 

German Pot Roast and Noodles 170 

German Sauer Roast 169 

German Stew 161 

H orseradish Pickles 155 

Hot Cakes without Eggs or Milk 148 

How to Fry Chops and Steaks 141 

How to Retain the Flavor of Meat 140 

How to Roast Chickens, Ducks and Turkeys 179 

Irish Stew 161 

Jap Stew 162 

Kidney Saute 164 

Kidney Stew 164 

Lamb Liver and Country Gravy 143 

Lamb Stew 162 

246 



Page 

Lamb Stow with Green Peas 162 

Lamb Tongues Jelled 141 

Lamb Tongues with Tomato Sauce 141 

Liver and Onions - 142 

Mashed Potato Cake 150 

Mexican Beans ;- 159 

Mexican Chilli Con Carne 158 

Minced Sweetbreads on Toast 147 

Mock Duck 144 

Mother's Boston Baked Beans 154 

Mother Meat Pie 181 

Mushrooms, Fresh 143 

Noodles 153 

One Egg Cake 150 

Original Cake (by Mrs. Smith) 149 

Oven Roasts 169 

Plain Hamburger Steak 175 

Plum Pudding 1 55 

Porterhouse Steak - 1 73 

Pot Roast and Spaghetti 167 

Potato Pan Cakes 1 48 

Pressed Veal 146 

Prime Rib Roast for the Oven 168 

Rabbit. Chicken or Pigeon Pie : 176 

Rib Boiling Meat for Stew 165 

Roasts and Pot Roasts 166 

Round Steak 1 75 

Round Steak and Mushrooms 176 

Round Steak Roll 176 

Saddle of Lamb 1 44 

Selecting Liver 142 

Shoulder Roasts of Lamb, Veal and Pork 171 

Stuffed Breast of Veal 145 

Suet Pudding - 155 

Suetene Raised Doughnuts 1 47 

Tamales 157 

Tartar Sauce - 156 

Tomato Catsup 1 56 

Tomato Sauce 1 57 

Tripe Stew 162 

Veal Breakfast Dandies - 172 

Veal Chops Breaded 171 

Veal Croquettes 152 

Veal Loaf — - 146 

Veal Roast 145 

Veal Roll 146 

Veal Round Steak 172 

Veal Stew - 162 

Veal Sweetbreads 147 

Walnut Cake 149 

247 



Salads — Page 

Chicken Salad 191 

Combination Salad 189 

Cream Salad Dressing 191 

Economy Salad 188 

Egg Nog 193 

Frisco Salad 187 

German Dressing for Salads 190 

Lobster Salad 192 

Tongue Filling for Sandwiches 192 

Tongue Salad 192 

Veal Salad • 188 

Waldorf Salad 186 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



Page 

Plate No. 1— Front Quarter of Beef 18 

Plate No. 2 — Soup Bones and Soup Meat 20 

Plate No. 3 — Pot Roasts and Separate Cuts from Front Quarter 26 

Plate No. 4 — Prime Rib Roasts and German Pot Roasts Beef 30 

Plate No. 5 — Steaks — Sirloin. Tenderloin. Porterhouse and Fillet 34 

Plate No. 6 — Economical Cuts of Beef Steak 36 

Plate No. 7 — Rump Roast and Round of Beef 40 

Plate No. 8 — Flank. Flank Steak, Point. Kidney and Suet 42 

Plate No. 9— A Side of Untrimmed Pork SO 

Plate No. 10 — Pork Chops and Pork Sausage 56 

Plate No. 11 — Each Separate Cut of Trimmed Pork 58 

Plate No. 12— A Side of Mutton as it Should Be Cut 60 

Plate No. 13 — Different Proportion of Waste in Cuts of Lamb--- 72 
Plate No. 14 — Lamb Shanks. Breasts, Shoulder and Saddle of Lamb 74 

Plate No. 15— Side of Veal as it Should Be Cut 76 

Plate No. 16— Each Separate Cut of the Veal 80 

Plate No. 17— Smoked Meats. Ham and Bacon 98 

Plate No. 18 — Sliced Bacon, Boneless Butts and Dried Beef 100 

Plate No. 19 — Lard and Suetene 106 

Plate No. 20 — Economical Cooked Meats and Salad Oil 114 

Plate No. 21 — Ox Tails, Calves Sweetbreads, Brains, Lamb Kid- 
neys, Tongue and Tripe 120 

Plate No. 22 — Hearts, Livers. Tongues, and Kidneys 128 



248 



