A MANUAL 



BUSSEY 



A MANUAL OF 
PERSONAL HYGIENE 



BY 

GEORGE D. BUSSEY 

HEAD OF DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE, EAST BOSTON HIGH SCHOOL 




GINN AND COMPANY 

BOSTON NEW YORK CHICAGO LONDON 
ATLANTA DALLAS COLUMBUS SAN FRANCISCO 



COPYRIGHT, 1917, BY GEORGE D. BUSSEY 

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 

218.9 



(Cfte gtftenaum 

GINN AND COMPANY PRO- 
PRIETORS BOSTON U.S.A. 



PREFACE 

To present the most important facts of personal hygiene 
briefly is the object of this Manual. The information which it 
contains has been gathered from a variety of sources, and, 
while opinions may differ as to some of its statements, it is 
believed in all essentials to be correct. As it has been prepared 
from notes which came gradually into existence through the 
teaching of classes in hygiene, it is impossible to give individual 
credit to those whose ideas have been utilized. Therefore the 
author takes this opportunity of thanking them all. He desires 
especially to thank Mr. Samuel F. Tower of the Boston English 
High School, Miss Laura S. Plummer of the Boston Normal 
School, and Dr. Franklin B. Dyer, Superintendent of Schools, 
Boston, for valuable criticisms and suggestions ; Mr. Francis J. 
Conlin of the Boston English High ' School, Miss Lillian J. 
MacRae of the South Boston High School, Edward J. Grain- 
ger, M. D., of East Boston, and Eugene Lyman Fisk, M. D., 
Medical Director of the Life Extension Institute, New York, 
for reading the manuscript ; and Louis Faugeres Bishop, M. D., 
Secretary of the Society for Instruction in First Aid to the 
Injured, New York, who has so generously placed at his disposal 
the society's handbook, from which Chapter XXI is drawn. 

G. D. B. 



iii 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 

TO THE TEACHER ix 

CHAPTER 

I. THE IMPORTANCE OF HYGIENE . i 



II. How THE BODY GETS HEAT AND ENERGY ... 4 

The body compared to an engine. Digestion. Circulation. 
Respiration. Excretion. Bacteria. How the body defends 
itself 

III. BREATHING 9 

Importance of pure air. Benefits of deep breathing. Fresh 
air. Ventilation 

IV. EATING 14 

The guide to eating. What to eat. Rules for eating. 
Indigestion. Fruits. Sugar. Raw foods. Condiments. 
Effect of diet upon the action of the intestines 

V. DRINKING 25 

Water and the human body. Drinking at meals. Drinking 
at other times. Ice water. Hot water. Soda water. Tea, 
coffee, cocoa. Milk 

VI. SLEEP 30 

Sleep a necessity. The best conditions. Length of sleep. 
Insomnia. Bedclothing 

VII. EXERCISE 34 

Effect of exercise upon the general circulation. Why the 
muscles get tired. The effect of exercise upon the heart. 
The best exercise 

v 



vi MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

CHAPTER PAGE 

VIII. INFLUENCE OF THE MIND UPON HEALTH ... 38 
Effects of sudden mental shock. Influence of the emo- 
tions. Mental attitudes that should be curbed by the will. 
Mental attitudes that should be cultivated 

IX. HYGIENE OF THE TEETH 42 

The cause of decay. Importance of care of the teeth. 
Prevention of decay. The brush. Powders and pastes 

X. THE SKIN 47 

Functions of the skin. Bathing. Washing the face. Care 
of the hands. Soap 

XI. THE HAIR 56 

The scalp. Treatment. General suggestions. Hats 

XII. CLOTHING 62 

Wool. Cotton. Winter clothing. Rubber raincoats. 
Stockings. Garters. Corsets 

XIII. SHOES 67 

Importance of fit. Size. Sole. Heel. Height. Material. 
Weight for winter 

XIV. THE NOSE AND THROAT 70 

Parts of the nose. Functions of the nose. Obstructions 

to the nasal passages. Tonsils. Focal infection. Colds. 
Conditions which accompany colds. Conditions which 
favor taking cold. Treatment. Prevention of colds. 
Catarrh 

XV. THE CHEST AND LUNGS 77 

Round shoulders and flat chests. Lateral curvature. The 
seat of the trouble. Remedy. Benefits of erect carriage. 
Consumption 

XVI. THE EYE 85 

Defective vision. Signs of defective sight. Long sight. 
Short sight. Watering of the eyes. Red eyes. Cinder in 
the eye. Black eye. Some things which are bad for 
the eyes. The eyes and the general health 



CONTENTS vii 

CHAPTER PAGE 

XVII. THE EAR 91 

Parts of the ear. Freezing. Washing. The auditory 
canal. Wax. Wearing cotton. Foreign substances. 
Drumhead. The middle ear. Inflammation of the 
middle ear. Remedies for earache. Deafness 

XVIII. TOBACCO AND HARMFUL DRUGS 98 

Tobacco. Opium. Cocaine 

XIX. ALCOHOL AND PATENT MEDICINES . . . . 104 
Alcohol. Patent medicines. Dangerous powders. 
Other remedies to be avoided 

XX. BACTERIA no 

Importance of bacteria. Conditions under which they 
thrive. Effects of adverse conditions. Antiseptics and 
disinfectants. Ptomaines and toxins. Antitoxins and 
vaccines 

XXI. EMERGENCIES 115 

Shock. Contusions. Sprains. Dislocations. Frac- 
tures. Bandaging. Drowning. Suffocation from other 
causes. Choking. Fainting. Stunning, or concussion 
of the brain. Heat-stroke, or sun-stroke. Hemorrhage, 
or bleeding, from wounds. Bleeding from the nose. 
Wounds. Infected wounds. Dog-bites. Poisons and 
poisoning. Antidotes. Burns. Exposure to cold and 
frost-bite. Accidents from electricity. Transportation 
of the injured. To prevent the spread of contagion 

APPENDIX. THE PARTS OF THE BODY AND THEIR WORK 145 

Materials of the body. Divisions of the body and what 
they contain. Classification of organs according to 
work. Organs of locomotion. Organs of digestion. 
Organs of circulation. Organs of respiration. Organs 
of excretion. The nervous system 

INDEX 151 



TO THE TEACHER 

True to its title, this little volume is a Manual. It contains 
only what every pupil should be required to learn. There is 
nothing to be omitted. It is left to the teacher to supply the 
illustrative material. 

Logically the subject matter of the Appendix, which treats of 
anatomy and physiology, should precede rather than follow the 
chapters on hygiene, as arranged in the text ; and there is no 
reason why it should not be taken up first if that is the teacher's 
preference. It is the author's experience, however, that in the 
limited time which can be allowed to anatomy and physiology 
in a course which does not exceed forty lessons, the amount 
acquired by pupils does not add materially to their grasp of 
hygiene. Moreover, teachers of experience in these subjects 
know very well that pupils do not take the interest in anatomy 
and physiology that they do in hygiene. In fact, set lessons 
in the former subjects may even act as a damper upon their 
enthusiasm. It would seem best, therefore, to weave into the 
course, from time to time, such parts of the Appendix as may 
be readily applied, and as much more of anatomy and physi- 
ology as the teacher may find time for without actually giving 
any assigned lessons on those subjects. 

Pupils should be encouraged to ask questions and to take 
part in discussion, care being taken that discussion does not 
lead to waste of time. It will be found that they have some 
knowledge upon nearly every topic, and opinions which they 
like to express. Upon these the teacher must pass judgment, 

ix 



x MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

and by helping them to coordinate what they already know in a 
fragmentary way can add greatly to the value of the course. 

To insure the best results the classes in hygiene should not 
be larger than those in other subjects in the same school ; and, 
as in other subjects, promotion in hygiene should be earned. A 
mark based upon inspection may be given for general appear- 
ance, including cleanness of teeth, hands, and clothes ; but too 
much emphasis must not be placed upon this, because so much 
depends upon home conditions over which the pupils have little 
control. It is greatly to be regretted, however, that there is no 
way of actually finding out how many pupils brush their teeth, 
chew their food properly, bathe regularly, sleep with their win- 
dows open, etc. If there were, promotion would be easy. Until 
some way is discovered, we shall be obliged to resort mainly 
to the conventional method, promotion by lessons learned but 
not necessarily put into practice. Moreover, the pupils must be 
made to understand that they are not at liberty to forget lessons 
that are past. To attain this result it will be necessary to devote 
a part of each lesson to review. The answers to questions may 
be oral or written. Written answers, which put the whole 
burden upon each pupil, and from which there is no escape, 
will prove very effective. The questions should be so selected 
and worded that the answers may be brief, a word or, at 
most, one sentence, to save the teacher's time in correcting. 
Set examinations may be held at the discretion of the teacher. 



A MANUAL OF 
PERSONAL HYGIENE 



CHAPTER I 

THE IMPORTANCE OF HYGIENE 

Hygiene, which treats of how to keep well, is neither 
a disciplinary nor a cultural subject. Its object is utility. 
It is not sufficient that the pupils learn their lessons ; 
they must put their learning into practice. By this stand- 
ard the success of the course must be measured. Every 
pupil ought at least to carry from the course a lasting 
impression that health is a boon of inestimable value 
which may be easily squandered or easily conserved. 

While systematic knowledge of how to keep the body 
in condition, so that it will not become a prey to disease, 
has not kept pace with the progress in other branches 
of medicine, yet the foundation of such a science has 
been well laid. Much knowledge of this character is 
available and should be possessed by all, for the preven- 
tion of disease is more important than its cure. 

A famous physician, 1 upon being asked for a rule for 
living to a good old age, replied that one must be afflicted 
with an incurable disease. This is merely stating in strik- 
ing terms the well-known fact that frail people often 

l Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes. 
i 



2 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

outlive the more robust. In this seeming paradox is an 
important lesson for the student of hygiene. Frail people 
usually learn early in life to take care of themselves. 
They are careful about what they eat, bathe frequently, 
insist upon fresh air, go to bed early, are careful not 
to overtax themselves, avoid alcohol, tobacco, and all 
excesses, in short, they learn to live hygienically. 

The physician's answer suggests another important 
lesson which must not be overlooked. If the discovery 
of some bodily impairment is sufficient to cause a person 
to live so hygienically that life is measurably prolonged, 
it is doubly important that such impairment be discovered 
early. Therefore every person should have a thorough 
examination by a physician once a year, to discover bodily 
disorders before they progress too far. Many diseases 
which yield readily to treatment in their earlier stages 
are incurable in their later ones. The importance of 
having a periodic physical examination cannot be over- 
emphasized. Of the means at our disposal for keeping 
well this is one of the greatest. 



QUESTIONS 

1. Define hygiene. 

2. What besides learning their lessons is expected of pupils 
in hygiene ? 

3. What truth should be deeply impressed upon their minds ? 

4. What knowledge should be possessed by all ? 

5. Who was the famous physician mentioned in the text ? 

6. What is the meaning of his answer ? 



THE IMPORTANCE OF HYGIENE 3 

7. Do you know of any examples of the truth of this 
answer? Ask your parents if they do. 

8. Name five things which are good for the health. 

9. Name three things which are bad for the health. 

10. Why is it important that bodily impairments be dis- 
covered early ? 

11. What is one of the most important means at our disposal 
for keeping well ? 



CHAPTER II 

HOW THE BODY GETS HEAT AND ENERGY 

The body compared to an engine. The human body has 
often been compared to an engine. In many respects 
they are similar, but there is this difference, that the 
body is much more complicated than any engine and 
that it cannot be taken apart and examined as an engine 
can. They are alike, however, in that everything they 
do is at the expense of energy. 

Digestion. To obtain this energy, food is as necessary 
to our bodies as fuel is to an engine. Unlike the fuel, 
however, our food must undergo a thorough change 
before it can serve its purpose. To bring about such a 
change is the work of the organs of digestion. These 
include the mouth (with the teeth and salivary glands), 
the throat, the gullet (esophagus), the stomach, the intes- 
tines (small and large), the liver, and the pancreas. Their 
function is to convert the food into a state in which it 
can be absorbed by the blood vessels. 

Circulation. After the food has been digested and 
absorbed, it must be carried to all parts of the body. 
This is the function of the organs of circulation, which 
are the heart and the blood vessels. The heart is a pump. 
The blood vessels are of three kinds : arteries, veins, and 
capillaries. The arteries carry the blood away from the 

4 



HOW THE BODY GETS HEAT AND ENERGY 5 

heart ; the veins bring it back. The capillaries are minute 
vessels which connect the arteries with the veins and 
form a network in every part of the body. It is from 
the capillaries that the tissues get their food. 

Respiration. Some of the food is used for growth, 
some for repair, and some to supply heat and energy. 
Heat and energy are produced by oxidation (the union 
of oxygen with some other substance). Here again we 
find a similarity between the human body and an engine. 
Fuel is oxidized in the engine ; digested food is oxidized 
in our bodies and actually becomes the fuel of the body. 
The air, supplying oxygen, enters the furnace of the 
engine through the draft ; it enters our bodies through 
the nose and mouth. If air is completely excluded from 
the furnace, the fire goes out ; if it is excluded from our 
bodies, life ceases at once. 

The parts of the body which assist in supplying oxygen 
are called the organs of respiration. They are the mouth, 
nose, throat, windpipe, and lungs ; the nerves, muscles, 
bones, and cartilages of the chest, by whose action the 
air is renewed in the lungs ; and the blood vessels, which 
bring the blood to the lungs to receive the oxygen and 
which serve as channels of communication between the 
lungs and the tissues. While it is from the lungs that 
the oxygen finds its way into the blood, there is no spe- 
cial place where the oxidation occurs. It seems to occur 
everywhere. Through this oxidation we get heat to keep 
our bodies warm, and energy to support the numberless 
activities of which our lives consist. Oxidation is greatly 
increased during muscular exercise. 



6 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

Excretion. In the fire of a stove or of a furnace the 
coal is destroyed by oxidation ; but the carbon, of which 
it is mainly composed, is not destroyed but is simply 
changed, by its union with oxygen, to another substance. 
This new substance, an invisible gas called carbon dioxide, 
would smother and put out the fire if it were not allowed 
to escape up the chimney. In the human body there is 
no chimney, but a way is provided for the removal of 
carbon dioxide and other products of oxidation which are 
formed and which must be removed if life is to continue. 

The parts of the body whose work is to remove these 
waste products are called the organs of excretion. They 
are the lungs, the kidneys, and the skin. 

If the organs of excretion are all working well, the 
carbon dioxide and other products of oxidation are re- 
moved from the body and no harm is done by them. If, 
however, any of these organs are unable to do their work, 
some of the products remain in the body, with serious 
results to health. Other harmful products may be formed 
by the decomposition of food. The presence of decaying 
food in the intestines may be due to overeating or to 
inability to digest a proper amount of food. Many of these 
poisonous substances are absorbed by the blood and must 
be removed from the body. This extra burden is liable to 
injure the excretory organs and, through their failure to 
do the work required of them, to impair the functions 
of all the other organs. 

Bacteria. The decomposition of undigested food in 
the intestines is caused by bacteria. Bacteria are extremely 
small living things which are swallowed with the food 



HOW THE BODY GETS HEAT AND ENERGY 7 

and which are always present in the intestines. They are 
so small that it would take thousands of them to extend 
an inch, and they can be seen only by using the highest 
powers of the compound microscope. They are all about 
us, in dust and dirt, on our hands, clothing, and food, 
and even in our mouths. There are many kinds of bac- 
teria ; some of them cause decay, and others cause 
different kinds of diseases. 

How the body defends itself. The body is well sup- 
plied with means of protecting itself against all kinds of 
bacteria. If they attempt to invade the body, they are 
met by the white corpuscles of the blood (called devour- 
ing cells), whose special duty is to destroy the bacteria. 
These devouring cells are assisted in their work of 
defense by certain important secretions of the internal 
organs. If the body is to resist successfully the attacks of 
bacteria, every part must do its duty. The question of how 
to keep the parts of the body in condition to do their full 
duty will be taken up in the succeeding chapters. 

QUESTIONS 

1. State two ways in which the human body differs from 
an engine. In what way are they alike ? 

2. How does food resemble fuel? In what way do they 
differ? 

3. Name the principal organs of digestion. What is their 
function ? 

4. What is the function of the organs of circulation ? 

5. What is the work of the heart ? of the arteries ? of the 
veins ? of the capillaries ? 



8 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

6. State three ways in which food is used in the body. 

7. Define oxidation. What is oxidized in the body? What 
is produced ? 

8. How does the blood get its supply of oxygen ? 

9. What are the principal organs of respiration ? 

10. Where does oxidation in the body take place ? 

11. Name a substance which is formed by the oxidation of 
food. Why is it necessary that this and other waste products 
be removed from the body ? 

12. What are the principal excretory organs ? 

13. In what other way may harmful products be formed ? 

14. What are bacteria? Where do they occur? What do 
they cause besides decay? 

15. What are devouring cells ? What is their duty ? How 
are they assisted? 



CHAPTER III 

BREATHING 

Importance of pure air. The things most essential to 
human life are food, water, and air. The most important 
of these is air ; for we can live for weeks without food, 
for days without water, but not five minutes without air. 
Oxidation of the blood is the most important of all bodily 
functions. All the blood in the body passes through the 
lungs in a few minutes. It comes to the lungs to receive 
the oxygen of the air and to give up carbon dioxide. 

The energy by which we live and move, and upon 
which every organ depends, comes from the oxidation 
of the food we eat ; and the food is absolutely valueless 
unless oxidized. We are very particular about the amount 
and quality of the food we eat, but are very heedless about 
that which is a hundredfold more important, the air 
we breathe. We are content to fill our stomachs to their 
fullest capacity with the finest food, and then sit in an 
almost air-tight room and breathe stale, impure air. Nature 
has provided us with a bountiful supply of pure, fresh 
air, and with the lungs to use it, but the majority of 
people breathe only just enough to keep alive. We have 
acquired the habit of shallow breathing and ordinarily 
use only about one fifth of our lungs. The remaining 
four fifths becomes weak from disuse and is easily made 
the prey of the germs of consumption and pneumonia. 

9 



10 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

Benefits of deep breathing. The lungs must not be 
left to take care of themselves, but must be carefully de- 
veloped. There is a general belief that the remedy is to 
be found in athletics ; but muscular exercise, though of 
great benefit in many ways, is not always a remedy for 
insufficient breathing, for the muscular system is likely to 
be developed faster than the lungs, and the result will be a 
lung capacity as inadequate as before. Most athletes have 
a low lung capacity as compared with the size of their bodies. 

The true remedy is to be found in forced breathing, 
filling the lungs to their fullest capacity forty or fifty 
times a day. This can be done anywhere and at any 
time, but it is most beneficial if performed in the open 
air or at an open window. An excellent opportunity is 
afforded in most schools where special breathing exer- 
cises are required. The value of the exercises is not 
always realized, and the result is that many pupils go 
through them in a perfunctory way. These exercises are 
the very best that can be devised, and every pupil ought 
to do them with enthusiasm, inflating the lungs to their 
fullest capacity and emptying them to the last possible 
cubic inch, always inhaling through the nose. 

Fresh air. The kind of air that we breathe is very 
important. Whether it be warm, cool, moist, or dry is 
of less importance than that it be fresh. Outdoor air 
is the freshest. Country air is better than that of the 
city, but even the outdoor air of the city is invigorating. 
Those who are much in the open air have better health 
and, as a rule, live longer than those who are shut in 
most of the time. 



BREATHING 1 1 

Warm air, especially in the house, is depressing, and 
cool air is stimulating. Therefore it is important to keep 
down the temperature of schoolrooms and living-rooms 
whenever possible. A temperature of from 66 to 68 F. 
is considered standard, but lower temperatures will be 
found distinctly beneficial to those who can become 
accustomed to them. 

Dryness of the air is a matter of climate and is not 
subject to man's control, except in the house, where it 
can be regulated only imperfectly. Indoor air in summer 
is frequently too moist, and in winter is probably often 
too dry. In summer there is no convenient way of drying 
house air which is too moist, and it is difficult to moisten 
sufficiently the dry air of a house in winter. Steam and 
hot-water heating systems make no provision for moisten- 
ing the air, and hot-air furnaces do so only imperfectly. 
Most of the latter have pans of water in their air pas- 
sages, but the moisture which they furnish is entirely 
inadequate. The question of controlling the moisture in 
house air is far from a satisfactory solution. 

Ventilation. A room in which the air is not in motion 
is not well ventilated. Ventilation can best be obtained 
through the windows. Good ventilation can be secured by 
keeping two windows open, one at the top and the other 
at the bottom. This works best if the windows are on 
opposite sides of the room. If there is only one window, 
it should be opened at both top and bottom. The width 
of the openings will depend upon the weather. In cold 
weather good use may be made of a window board. This 
is a narrow board which is fitted to the inside of the 



12 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

window casing, at the bottom, two or three inches from 
the window. When the window is raised at the bottom, 
the cold air which enters is deflected upward. The open- 
ing between the two sashes furnishes a way for some of 
the heated air to escape. A more easily constructed board, 
though less effective, is one that is placed beneath the 
lower sash. As this does not fit tightly, air enters around 
it; ventilation is also provided by the opening between 
the sashes, as with the other board. A row of half -inch 
or three-quarter-inch holes in this board will add greatly 
to its efficiency. 

In cool weather an open fire, which keeps a current 
of air moving up the chimney, furnishes excellent venti- 
lation. In warm weather electric fans are of great value, 
especially in theaters, assembly halls, and other places 
where the air becomes stagnant. 



QUESTIONS 

1. What things are most essential to human life ? Which of 
these is the most important ? Why ? 

2. About what important matter are people usually very 
heedless ? Explain. 

3. What is shallow breathing ? How may it lead to harm ? 

4. Why is muscular exercise not the correct remedy for 
insufficient breathing? 

5. What is the best remedy? How should it be put into 
practice ? 

6. How may pupils profit by the exercises provided in the 
schools ? 



BREATHING 13 

7. What kind of air is the best to breathe ? Where is such 
air found ? What influence does it have upon the health ? 

8. Why should living-rooms be kept cool? What is the 
proper temperature for houses and schoolrooms ? 

9. When is the air in houses often too moist ? When is it 
too dry ? 

10. In what respect do ordinary heating systems for houses 
fail ? 

11. When is a room not well ventilated ? Explain how good 
ventilation may be obtained. 

12. Describe a window board and its use. 

13. Why is an open fire a good ventilator? 

14. Where are electric fans of great value ? 



CHAPTER IV 

EATING 

The guide to eating. Appetite ought to be the best 
guide to eating, indicating when to eat, what to eat, and 
how much. It may have been a reliable guide when 
foods were simpler and there were fewer kinds to choose 
from, but it cannot be depended upon now. There are 
too many varieties of food and too many attractive ways 
of preparing it. The appetite should not be ignored, 
however, but must itself be guided. 

What to eat. Before we can make a wise selection of 
food, we must know what the body requires, what sub- 
stances various foods contain, and their digestibility. All 
of the things which the body requires may be placed 
in four groups : proteins, carbohydrates (starches and 
sugars), fats, and a group consisting of water, mineral 
salts, and vegetable acids. The proteins are used for 
growth and repair ; the carbohydrates and fats (which 
are called fuel foods), to supply heat and energy. Pro- 
teins may also be used for the latter purpose. To main- 
tain life and to keep the body in condition to resist 
disease, all of these kinds of food are necessary. 

The various articles of diet with which we are familiar 
contain some of these food principles. For example, 
lean meat is rich in proteins and contains also small 

14 



EATING 1 5 

amounts of fat and mineral salts. Other foods which 
contain a considerable amount of proteins are fish, eggs, 
milk, cheese, beans, peas, oatmeal, and wheat flour. The 
four last mentioned, besides containing proteins, are 
rich in starch (carbohydrate) and also contain small 
amounts of fat and mineral. Other foods that are rich 
in starch are rice, Indian meal, rye flour, and potatoes. 
Sugar (carbohydrate) is contained in many kinds of 
fruit. Fat or oil occurs in most of the above-mentioned 
kinds of food and is especially abundant in butter and 
pork ; it also occurs in nuts, cocoa, and chocolate. 
Minerals and vegetable acids are found in fruits and 
vegetables generally. 

There is no single article of diet which contains 
everything that the human body needs (cow's milk is 
the nearest to a perfect food) ; therefore, for a perfectly 
balanced meal, it is necessary to combine several kinds 
of food. There are, however, several familiar combina- 
tions of two kinds which are excellent, though not ideal, 
for example, bread and butter, crackers and cheese, 
pork and beans, and meat and potato. 

Although a person may live upon a purely vegetable 
diet, proper nourishment cannot be obtained from vege- 
tables alone. There is no combination of vegetables which 
will furnish enough proteins to the body without adding 
too much of the carbohydrates. This calls for more work 
from the digestive organs than is consistent with health. 
If, however, butter, eggs, and milk are added to vege- 
tables, a well-balanced and nutritious diet may be ob- 
tained without the use of meat. Such a diet is better 



1 6 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

for adults than for children, whose protein requirements 
are greater. In childhood and in youth abundant nutri- 
tion is necessary, and it is very important to have 
enough protein, as any deficiency in this important food 
principle reduces the power to resist disease. 

Individuals differ greatly in their ability to digest 
food. Therefore what would be a perfect combination 
of food for one might be unsuitable for another. A 
strong, healthy man, living an active, outdoor life, ought 
to be able to digest any kind of food ; but the same is 
not true of one who sits at a desk all day, working prin- 
cipally with his brain. For the former the problem of a 
suitable diet is simple ; for the latter it is more difficult. 
The brain worker usually requires easily digestible foods, 
though this is not always true. Each must work out his 
own problem. There are no specific rules, but it is well 
in practice to avoid those things which you have found 
by repeated trials to disagree with you. Hot bread, fried 
meats, baked beans, and pastry usually offer difficulties 
to a weak digestion ; while raw milk, soft-boiled eggs, 
lamb, tripe, rice, sago, tapioca, and barley are among 
those which are most easily digestible. 

Rules for eating, i. Above everything else learn to 
eat slowly. Chew every mouthful until it is creamy and 
you cannot help swallowing it. Never swallow a lump. 
All of the food should be broken up by the teeth and 
made so fine that the saliva can penetrate to every part. 
Do not moisten the food with anything but saliva. With 
a view to future success, the ambitious young person 
cannot use his time more profitably than in chewing his 



EATING 17 

food well. It means longer life, greater happiness, and 
more prosperity. Examples of bad methods of eating 
are furnished by pupils in high schools, who run home 
at noon, eat as fast as possible, and hurry back to 
school. A lunch of bread and butter, carried to school 
and eaten properly, will supply more nourishment to the 
body than a whole dinner eaten in a hurry at home. It 
is not the amount eaten, but the amount digested and 
assimilated, that nourishes the body. 

2. Do not overeat. Stop eating when you have had 
enough. Poisonous substances are formed from food 
that is not digested. If you eat slowly and chew your 
food thoroughly, there will be little danger of overeating. 
It is usually people who eat too fast who eat too much. 

3. Eat regularly, that is, at regular intervals. Five 
hours ought to elapse between meals, in order that the 
stomach may have a sufficient rest after its work is done. 

4. Do not eat unless you are really hungry. If there 
is no desire for food, the stomach is not ready for it. 
Omitting a meal will do no harm. Many people eat 
only two meals a day, and thrive. Eating three times 
a day is merely a habit. 

5 . Do not eat when very tired. Rest a little while first. 
Fatigue is a general condition and affects the whole body, 
including the stomach. 

Indigestion. Americans are called a nation of dyspep- 
tics. We do everything in a hurry, including our eating. 
The most common cause of indigestion is hurried eating. 
A young, vigorous person may eat improperly for a long 
time even for years without showing ill effects, but 



1 8 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

in time the result is sure to come, and indigestion is 
something we cannot afford to have at any time of life. 
It means malnutrition, impaired vigor, and susceptibility 
to disease. In this condition many people wrongly resort 
to patent medicines, which can do no good. The only 
way to bring about a permanent cure is to find out the 
cause and remove it. This usually means to adopt right 
methods of eating, and to continue in them for a long 
time, for it is not reasonable to expect in a short time 
to make amends for a long course of wrongdoing. 

Besides wrong methods of eating there are some other 
causes of indigestion, such as excitement, worry, anger, 
and eyestrain. Any nervous strain acts directly upon the 
digestion. Therefore it is well worth while, early in life, 
to cultivate an even and unruffled disposition. 

If indigestion does not yield to the above method of 
treatment within a reasonable time, a physician should 
be consulted, because the indigestion may be caused by 
some other more serious ailment. 

Lunches betiveen meals are unnecessary and often in- 
jurious, and should be avoided. Even the eating of fruit 
at such times is harmful. It gives the stomach no time 
to rest. 

Fruits. Fruits are easily digested and, although not 
highly nutritious, are valuable as food. They contain 
acids and salts that are needed, and also give bulk to 
the contents of the stomach and intestines, which is an 
aid to the healthy action of these organs. They may 
properly be eaten before breakfast, and may form a part 
of any regular meal. Bananas contain more nutriment 



EATING 19 

than other kinds of fruit and are easily digested if they 
are ripe and are chewed properly. 

Sugar. Sugar is an important factor in a normal diet. It 
is acted upon immediately by the saliva, and is rendered 
fit for assimilation more quickly than any other food. No 
other kind of food satisfies hunger so quickly. Hence any- 
thing sweet should be eaten in the latter part of a meal, as 
it takes away the appetite for other foods. The prevailing 
custom of placing a sweet dessert at the end of a hearty 
meal is accordingly hygienic. Good candy makes an excel- 
lent dessert, but the practice of eating candy between meals 
is wrong, and making a whole meal of it is very injurious. 

Raw foods. Cooking greatly enriches the flavors of 
some foods, such as meat, fish, eggs, etc., and is essen- 
tial to the digestibility of others, such as cereals, potatoes, 
and unripe fruits. Cooking, however, robs some foods 
of small but very important parts called vitamins. These 
vitamins, although not perfectly understood, are believed 
to be essential to health. Their absence results in the 
so-called deficiency diseases, 1 which are characterized by 
a great weakness of the muscles, especially those of the 
heart. Vitamins occur in grains, nuts, milk, and eggs, 
and in many fresh fruits and vegetables. Although pres- 
ent in the kernels of wheat, rye, and rice, they are in the 
outer layers, which are usually removed by the modern 
methods of milling wheat and rye and of polishing rice. 
They are entirely lacking in canned foods, being de- 
stroyed by the high temperatures and the prolonged heat- 
ing to which they are subjected ; and they are partly 

1 Such as scurvy and beriberi. 



20 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

destroyed in milk by the moderate heat of pasteurization. 
Since cooking destroys vitamins, wholly or in part, it is 
important that raw foods, such as lettuce, celery, toma- 
toes, fruits, nuts, and milk should form a part of the 
daily diet. 

Condiments. Mustard, red pepper, horse-radish, and 
the like are unnecessary and are not good for young 
people. They irritate the stomach and dull the appetite 
for simpler foods. Older persons, however, sometimes 
seem to need them to stimulate the appetite and the di- 
gestion. Salt is found in nearly every part of the body. 
Although a condiment, it is an important part of our 
food, and its absence results in a serious disturbance of 
the digestion and of the allied processes. 

Effect of diet upon the action of the intestines. It 
takes about twelve hours for the food to pass from one 
end of the small intestine to the other. By the time it 
reaches the lower end, all of the digestion, and most of 
the absorption into the blood, has been completed. The 
greater part of that which enters the large intestine is 
indigestible. Its journey through the large intestine is 
at a slower rate. The absorption here is mostly of water, 
reducing the contents to a more solid texture. While 
there is nothing in this indigestible remainder that is of 
itself harmful, it is subject to a bacterial action which 
produces substances that are harmful if absorbed into the 
general system. Therefore it is imperative that the pas- 
sage of such products be not unnecessarily delayed. In 
fact, it is just as important that a part of the contents 
of the large intestine should pass from the body daily as 



EATING 21 

that we should take our daily food. And just as we have 
regular times for taking our meals, so should we have 
a regular time for emptying the large intestine. 

Failure to form this habit usually brings on constipa- 
tion, which often leads to very injurious results. Its all- 
too-common prevalence may usually be traced to one or 
more of three causes : neglect to form a very important 
habit, a sedentary life, and the eating of foods that are 
too highly refined. The importance of the first of these 
has already been urged. As to the second, it is enough 
to say that exercise and bodily activity hasten the move- 
ment of the food through the stomach and the intestines, 
and that experience shows that people who lead active 
lives are much less troubled with constipation than those 
whose occupations are largely sedentary. A careful con- 
* sideration of the third will prove profitable. As already 
stated, it is principally the indigestible part of the food 
which makes its way into the large intestine, and which 
must be discharged from that organ. If there were no 
indigestible part, there would be nothing to be discharged, 
and the large intestine, with nothing to do, would lose 
its power to act. This cannot quite happen, for all of 
our foods contain something that is indigestible ; but it 
does take place to a degree. Many modern foods have 
had so much of that which is coarse and indigestible 
taken out, that the amount which enters the large intes- 

Itine is measurably reduced in volume. Wheat, our most 
important cereal, may be cited as an example. In the 
preparation of ordinary white flour much is removed that 
is valuable for food as well as important to the healthy 



22 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

action of the intestines. Graham flour, which contains 
everything that the wheat contained, is more valuable for 
daily use. Its substitution for white flour cannot be too 
strongly urged. All that has been said about wheat is 
true to a greater or less degree of other cereals ; and it 
may be stated in this connection that many vegetables 
are a valuable addition to our diet not so much for the 
nutriment they contain as for their stimulating effect 
upon the stomach and intestines. 



QUESTIONS 

1. In what ways ought the appetite to guide the eating? 
Why can it not be depended upon ? 

2. What knowledge must we have in order to make a 
wise selection of food ? 

3. What four kinds of food are necessary ? 

4. Name several kinds of food that contain a considerable 
amount of protein. 

5. Name several kinds of food that are rich in starch. 

6. In what food is sugar found ? 

7. In what foods is fat abundant ? 

8. In what foods do minerals and vegetable acids occur ? 

9. What single article of diet is most nearly a perfect food ? 

10. Name some excellent combinations of two kinds of food. 

11. What is the objection to a purely vegetable diet? 

12. How may a well-balanced diet be obtained without the 
use of meat? 

13. Why ought children to have plenty of protein ? 






EATING 23 

14. Explain why that which would be a perfect diet for one 
person might be unsuitable for another. 

15. Name several kinds of food which are considered hard 
to digest. 

16. Give several examples of foods which are considered 
easy to digest. 

17. What is the most important rule in eating ? 

18. Explain how chewing the food well can have anything 
to do with future success. 

19. What is the objection to going home to luncheon ? 

20. Explain how a luncheon brought to school may be better 
than a dinner eaten at home. 

21. What harm is there in overeating? 

22. How many hours apart ought our meals to be ? Why ? 

23. Why is it not well to eat when one is not hungry or 
when one is very tired? 

24. What is the most common cause of indigestion ? 

25. What is the only rational way to bring about a cure ? 
What does this mean ? 

26. Name some other causes of indigestion. 

27. Why are luncheons between meals injurious? 

28. State two reasons why fruits are valuable for food. 
What is the best time to eat them ? 

29. Why is sugar important? In what part of a meal do 
sweets belong ? Why ? 

30. When may candy be eaten ? Why is it injurious to eat 
candy before meals ? 

31. Name several condiments. Why are they not good for 
young people ? 

32. What harm would result if no salt were used in food? 



24 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

33. How long does it take food to pass through the small 
intestine ? What takes place in that process ? 

34. What part of the food enters the large intestine ? What 
harm may be caused if it stays there too long ? 

35. What other harm may be produced from the same delay? 
How else may it be caused ? Of what value is exercise in this 
connection ? 

36. What would be the result if there were no indigestible 
part in food? 

37. Give two reasons why Graham flour is better for us 
than white flour. 

38. What is the chief value of many vegetables ? 



CHAPTER V 

DRINKING 

Water and the human body. Sixty-five per cent of 
the human body is water. Most people do not drink 
water enough. Eight or ten glasses a day are not too 
many. The advantages of drinking water freely are as 
follows : 

1. It improves the health by washing the impurities 
out of the blood. Pure water enters the blood, dissolves 
the products of oxidation, and passes out through the 
skin and the kidneys. 

2. It improves the looks by keeping the skin smooth 
and by increasing the flow of blood in the little vessels 
at the surface. 

The only persons who may not be benefited by drink- 
ing a large amount of water are those with weak hearts. 
In such cases the increase in the amount of blood may 
give the heart too much work to do. 

Drinking at meals. Although opinions differ as to the 
effects of drinking water at meals, recent experiments 
tend to show that it is a good practice, which improves 
both the appetite and the digestion. Some authorities 
recommend a glass or two, and others as much as one 
pleases. Care should be taken not to wash the food 
down. It is not well to take any liquid into the mouth 

2 5 



26 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

while it contains food, as this favors fast eating and 
allows lumps to be swallowed. 

Drinking at other times. Do not confine your drink- 
ing to mealtimes. Drink before breakfast, between meals, 
and in the evening, but not later than half an hour be- 
fore bedtime ; cold water in the stomach may prevent 
sleep. 

Ice water. Even if pure, ice water should be taken 
sparingly. It chills and sometimes injures the stomach. 
Do not get into the habit of drinking it. It may not be 
pure ; disease germs are not always killed by freezing. 

Hot water. While hot water is sometimes a good 
remedy for indigestion, headache, or chill, it will lose 
its effect if taken too often. It should never take ' the 
place of cold water as a beverage. 

Soda water. There is nothing harmful in soda water 
and similar beverages if they are made of pure fruit 
juices ; but they are not always so made, and they con- 
tain so much sugar that they may easily interfere with 
the appetite and the digestion, especially since they are 
usually taken between meals. 

Tea, coffee, and cocoa. Tea and coffee differ widely 
in appearance, taste, and origin, but are very similar in 
their effects upon the human system. The caffeine of 
coffee and the theine of tea are chemically identical. 
Both tea and coffee contain tannin, but there is more 
in tea than in coffee. The amount of tannin in a cup 
of tea depends largely upon the length of time the tea 
is in contact with boiling water. The best way to pre- 
pare tea is to pour boiling water over tea leaves and 



DRINKING 27 

allow this to stand a few minutes. Tea that has been 
boiled for any considerable time is not fit to drink. Both 
tea and coffee stimulate the nervous system and the 
heart, and are injurious if used immoderately. One cup 
of either at a meal is enough for an adult, and that 
should not be too strong. It makes little difference 
whether it be taken " straight " or with sugar and cream 
or milk. In addition to their irritating effects upon the 
nerves, both tea and coffee hinder the action of the 
saliva and tend to disturb the digestion. On this account 
they must be taken slowly enough to become thoroughly 
mixed with the saliva before being swallowed, and for 
the same reason they are unsuitable for persons with 
weak digestions. Even weak tea and coffee are unfit 
for children. 

Cocoa resembles tea and coffee in some ways. It is a 
mild stimulant, but is less exciting to the nervous system. 
It is more easily digested and has a much higher food 
value. It can be safely recommended as a refreshing 
and stimulating beverage. 

Milk. Milk contains nearly everything that the body 
needs, being deficient only in carbohydrates. It is very 
digestible, making the work of the stomach easy, and it 
is free from the harmful products which are a burden to 
the liver and the kidneys. Raw (uncooked) milk is the 
best. Boiling robs it of some of its most valuable quali- 
ties, such as easy digestibility and the power of destroying 
bacteria in the intestines. Pasteurization, which is pro- 
duced by keeping milk between 140 and 150 F. for 
thirty minutes, destroys the harmful bacteria and avoids 



28 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

much of the injury caused by boiling. Bacteria multiply 
rapidly in milk, especially if it is warm. Therefore it is 
imperative that it be received strictly fresh, kept cool, 
and used soon after delivery. Even Pasteurization does 
not prevent bacteria from developing later. 

Milk, like all other beverages except water, must be 
taken slowly, because it contains sugar, which requires 
saliva to digest it. There is also another reason. Milk is 
curdled immediately upon its entrance into the stomach. 
If it is taken slowly, it will be curdled in many small 
lumps, all of which can be easily reached by the digestive 
juices ; but if it is taken rapidly, it will curdle in one 
mass, which will greatly increase the difficulty of diges- 
tion. Milk is a natural food of the young and by nature's 
methods cannot be obtained otherwise than slowly. 



QUESTIONS 

1. What per cent of the human body is water ? 

2. How much water ought one to drink in a day ? 

3. How may drinking plenty of water improve the health ? 
Explain. 

4. How may it improve the looks ? 

5. Who should avoid drinking much water ? Why ? 

6. What is the effect of drinking at meals ? 

7. What precaution is necessary ? Why ? 

8. At what other times may we drink ? 

9. What objection is there to drinking ice water? How 
can it be impure ? 

10. For what is hot water a remedy ? 



DRINKING 29 

11. Find out how soda water is prepared. What is some- 
times substituted for pure fruit juices ? 

12. What harm may come from drinking soda water too 
often? Why? 

13. In what way are tea and coffee alike ? 

14. What is the name of the active principle of tea? of 
coffee? How do they compare? 

15. What else do they contain ? 

16. What is the best way to prepare tea? Why is tea that 
has been boiled for some time unfit to drink ? 

17. What are the physiological effects of tea and coffee ? 

18. When do they become injurious ? 

19. How may they interfere with the digestion ? How may 
this be prevented ? 

20. Are they ever fit for children ? 

21. How does cocoa compare with tea and coffee in effect 
upon the nervous system ? in digestibility ? in food value ? 

22. Why is milk not a perfect food ? 

23. Why does it make the work of the stomach easy ? of the 
liver and kidneys ? 

24. What is the best milk ? Why ? 

25. What is meant by Pasteurization ? What is the purpose 
of this ? 

26. Why should milk be received fresh and kept cool ? 

27. Why must milk be taken slowly? What is another 
reason ? 

28. Is milk taken quickly or slowly by nature's methods ? 



CHAPTER VI 

SLEEP 

Sleep a necessity. Total loss of sleep would in a short 
time produce death. Even its loss for a single night is 
shown in the pale face and dull eyes. Sleep is a neces- 
sity because in our waking hours the products of fatigue, 
both muscular and mental, accumulate ; they are formed 
faster than they can be liberated from the body. During 
sleep the reverse is true ; they are removed faster than 
they are formed, until the two processes balance each 
other. No more sleep is needed ; the mind is clear and 
the body is refreshed. 

The best conditions. Night is the best time for sleep, 
because it is dark, quiet, and cool. The brain is undis- 
turbed. Noise and light stimulate the brain to activity 
and prevent sleep ; so does the bodily discomfort which 
is caused by heat. Sleepiness may be caused by a full 
stomach, because the blood is called away from the brain, 
but sleep will not be so sound, nor so refreshing, if the 
stomach is at work. 

Since oxidation plays an important part in ridding the 
body of accumulated poisons, ventilation is very impor- 
tant. It is impossible to get too much fresh air, but care 
should be taken not to have a current of air blowing in 
the face, nor too strong a draft across the bed, because in 

30 



SLEEP 31 

sleep the resisting power of the body is greatly diminished. 

Sleep is soundest and most refreshing around mid- 
night ; therefore it is best to go to bed early, ten 
o'clock at the latest. 

Length of sleep. There are great individual differences 
in regard to the amount of sleep required. As a rule young 
persons require more than those who are older, but each 
must find out for himself just what his requirements are. 
The essential thing is to wake feeling perfectly rested 
and restored, both in body and in mind. There are 
notable examples of men who have found five hours 
sufficient, but this is unusual.. The ordinary requirement 
is from seven to nine hours. If sleep is lost, it must be 
made up at the earliest opportunity. 

Too much sleep causes a feeling of depression and is 
injurious. Therefore it is best to rise promptly, as soon 
as the body is fairly awake. 

Insomnia. Young persons are not often troubled with 
insomnia. If, however, there is a tendency to lie awake 
at night, some steps should be taken to bring about 
normal sleep. The following suggestions, if heeded, will 
prove to be of value. Eat a light supper, not later than 
six o'clock, and go to bed early in a cool, well-ventilated 
room from which all light and noise are excluded. Avoid 
mental work and the reading of exciting stories, especially 
just before retiring. Do not read in bed. Put out of 
your mind all irritating and troublesome thoughts or, 
better, try not to think at all. Walking or riding in the 
open air often makes one sleepy, and a warm bath may 
produce the same effect. 



32 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

Bedclothing. During sleep there is a general slowing 
down of the vital processes (such as respiration, the 
beating of the heart, etc.), and hence a general lowering 
of the vitality and of the power of resistance to cold and 
exposure. Therefore it is necessary in sleep to keep the 
body more warmly covered than when awake and active. 
On the other hand, care should be taken that the cover- 
ing is not too warm, and especially that it is not too 
heavy. Heavy clothing is very fatiguing. Probably the 
bed-covering which combines the greatest warmth with 
the lightest weight is a down quilt, but for general use 
there is nothing better than woolen blankets. Two thin 
blankets are warmer than a single thick one of the same 
weight, owing to the air space between. The feather bed 
is considered unhygienic and has been almost entirely 
replaced by the mattress. The pillow should be small ; 
a large pillow holds the head in an unnatural position 
and, by causing the neck to bend, hinders the free cir- 
culation of the blood. The more nearly straight and 
horizontal the body is in sleep, the more perfect will be 
the relaxation and rest. 

Bedclothing should be thoroughly aired every morning 
at an open window. 



QUESTIONS 

1. Why is sleep necessary ? Explain fully. 

2. Why is the night the best time for sleep ? 

3. Why do noise, light, and heat prevent sleep ? 

4. Why is sleep not refreshing when the stomach is full ? 



SLEEP 



33 



5. Why is ventilation important during sleep ? 

6. Why should one avoid sleeping in a draft ? 

7. What is the advantage of going to bed early ? 

8. How should one feel after having the right amount of 
sleep ? 

9. How many hours are usually required ? 

10. Why is it best to rise as soon as one is fully awake ? 

11. What should be "done to produce normal sleep if there 
is a tendency to lie awake at night ? 

12. Why is it necessary to keep the body warmly covered 
while asleep? 

13. Why is it important to avoid too heavy covering ? 

14. What is the best covering for general use ? 

15. Why are two thin blankets warmer than one thick one 
of the same weight? 

16. Why should the pillow be small ? 

17. What is the best position for the body in sleep ? 

18. How should bedclothing be aired ? 



CHAPTER VII 

EXERCISE 

Effect of exercise upon the general circulation. Few 

people realize the important part that exercise plays in 
the circulation of the blood through the body. It is 
generally understood that the heart is a pump which is 
responsible for all the movements of the blood in the 
arteries, veins, and capillaries. This is not the whole 
truth, for the muscles and veins, with the valves of the 
latter, form a pumping system that is second in efficiency 
only to the heart itself. This system is especially valu- 
able in helping the heart to move the blood back again 
to the chest, against gravity (after its long journey down 
to the feet) and through the resisting capillaries. 

Every time a muscle is contracted, or hardened, as in 
walking, the blood is forced out of the veins passing 
through it. This blood is forced upward toward the 
heart, for it cannot go back to the feet on account of 
the valves. When the muscle is relaxed, the pressure is 
reduced, and blood again flows into that part of the vein. 
But it must come from below, not from above, as the 
valves allow the blood in the veins to move only toward 
the heart. The importance of this muscular contraction 
to the general circulation must be appreciated when it is 
remembered that the blood is forced along in the veins 

34 



EXERCISE 35 

not only by the muscles of the legs but by nearly all of 
the more than five hundred muscles of the body. 

Why the muscles get tired. Everything we do is at 
the expense of energy. This energy comes from oxida- 
tion that takes place within. It takes energy to sit, to 
stand, or to move a muscle. We are using up energy 
every moment we live. Some substances are being con- 
sumed ; others are being formed. It is necessary for the 
former to be renewed and for the latter to be removed. 
Both of these changes are effected by the blood. It must 
bring the new material and carry away the products of 
oxidation, which are now worse than useless. They must 
be taken to the lungs, the skin, and the kidneys to be 
thrown from the body. Suppose that neither of these 
acts is performed, or that they are done imperfectly. 
The condition in the muscle is abhorrent. The nerves 
of that region enter a complaint. There is an uncom- 
fortable feeling. It increases to a pain. What is the 
matter ? Two things : the muscle is out of food and 
is overloaded with carbon dioxide and other products of 
oxidation, which are irritating the nerves. What must 
be done to bring relief ? That depends upon how the 
trouble was brought about. If it was caused by exces- 
sive use of the muscle, the remedy is to rest until the 
blood has removed the wastes and supplied the wants ; if 
it was caused by keeping a muscle contracted too long 
at a time, as sometimes occurs when one stands too 
long in one position, a little exercise will hasten the 
recovery, by squeezing out the stagnant blood and bring- 
ing in the new. This explains why walking is less 



36 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

tiresome than standing, and why moderate exercise is 
usually restful. Violent exercise is tiring, because waste 
products are produced faster than they can be removed, 
and because materials are consumed faster than they can 
be replaced. 

The effect of exercise upon the heart. Violent exercise 
requires rapid oxidation. To accomplish this the breath- 
ing is quickened and the blood is forced rapidly through 
the lungs. The contracting muscles bring the blood in 
large quantities to the heart, which in turn must force 
it through the lungs, back again to itself, and then out 
over the body again. Such unusual labor is of no benefit 
to the heart and, if continued too long, may result in 
positive injury. 

Moderate exercise quickens slightly the action of the 
heart, but does not increase its load to the point of injury, 
if at all, because the muscular contraction, gently forcing 
the blood along in the veins, reduces the pressure against 
which the heart must work. 

In the absence of exercise the heart has all the work 
of the circulation to perform. Violent exercise overworks 
the heart ; moderate exercise lightens its task. Therefore 
it may be concluded that with moderate exercise taken 
regularly the heart will be kept at its best. Experience 
proves this conclusion to be correct. 

The best exercise. Opinions differ as to what is spe- 
cifically the best form of exercise, but as to its general 
characteristics there can be no disagreement. To produce 
the best results, exercise ought to be in the open air, to 
bring a large number of muscles into play, and to be 



EXERCISE 37 

agreeable enough to take the mind from other things. 
It should be stopped before the point of fatigue is 
reached. Do not exercise violently after a hearty meal. 
Do not begin exercise when tired. 

QUESTIONS 

1. What is the function of the heart ? of the arteries ? of 
the veins ? of the capillaries ? (Find the answers in the Appendix.) 

2. Why is it easier for the heart to send blood to the 
feet through the arteries than to draw it back again through 
the veins ? 

3. Explain how the action of the muscles assists the heart. 

4. What are the valves ? How do they act ? 

5. What is energy ? Where does the body get its energy ? 

6. What is the source of the materials consumed ? 

7. What becomes of the products formed ? 

8. Why do tired muscles ache ? 

9. What brings relief to tired muscles ? W T hy ? 

10. Why is walking less tiresome than standing ? 

11. Why is violent exercise tiring? 

12. What is the effect of violent exercise upon the heart ? 
Explain. 

13. Why is moderate exercise a benefit to the heart ? 

14. What is the effect of no exercise ? 

15. What are the characteristics of the best exercise ? 

16. When should exercise be stopped ? Why ? 

17. When should exercise not be taken ? 



CHAPTER VIII 

INFLUENCE OF THE MIND UPON HEALTH 

Effects of sudden mental shock. A thought may cause 
the face to turn white or scarlet, may make the body cold 
or warm, may produce hunger or nausea. From sudden 
shock, black hair has been turned white in one night. 
Cases are recorded of those who have died of disappoint- 
ment, of fright, and from other kinds of mental shock. 
Sudden death from such causes is rare, but, unfortunately, 
impaired health, gray hair, haggard looks, and premature 
old age are not. 

Influence of the emotions. Philosophers long ago be- 
lieved that the emotions strongly influenced the health. 
But this is the age of science, in which we do not depend 
upon indirect methods for proofs. We know that the 
mind dominates the body. We know what nerve centers 
are affected by the various strong emotions, what organs 
are controlled by them, and how the health is affected by 
an increase or decrease in the activities of these organs. 
The heart, arteries, kidneys, liver, pancreas, and stomach 
are especially susceptible to the influence of strong mental 
emotion, and many are the lives that are shortened in 
consequence. Not only does mental depression, due to 
care, worry, and sorrow, impair the efficiency of these 
and other organs, but it lets down the bars for the 
entrance of the bacteria of disease ; for it is through 

38 



INFLUENCE OF MIND UPON HEALTH 39 

the efficiency of these organs that the body is able to 
defend itself against infections. 

Mental attitudes that should be curbed by the will. 
Care, worry, and sorrow are often attributed to mis- 
fortune, and may be in a measure so caused ; but fre- 
quently this notion is overemphasized, especially by those 
who are inclined to augment the ills of life. The assum- 
ing of heavy cares is largely optional, while worrying and 
sorrowing may be controlled by the will. It has been 
aptly said that there are two things we should not worry 
about, those we can help and those we cannot. About 
the former there is no need to worry, and worrying about 
the latter is of no use. People who have the habit of 
worrying take refuge in the excuse that it is constitu- 
tional, that it is their nature to worry. But this is 
a poor excuse, for we are all examples of the changes 
that can be wrought in the very nature of human beings 
by cultivation and effort. Many give way to mourning 
over the loss of friends to a degree that is injurious to 
the health and utterly destructive of happiness. A strong 
attempt should be made to throw off such an influence, 
for upon the living it has only harmful effects, and to 
those who have departed it can do no good. 

Anger, envy, jealousy, and fear are in a class with 
the above-mentioned health depressants, and like them 
may be made subject to the will. 

Mental attitudes that should be cultivated. Do not 
dwell upon your ills. Make a genuine effort to rise above 
the misfortunes of life. There are two sides to every- 
thing ; form the habit of looking on the bright side. 



40 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

Do not think too much about yourself. Cultivate an 
interest in matters outside. The world is full of beautiful 
things. Music, art, literature, and nature offer diversions 
from which you may have your choice. 

Practice self-control. Begin at once with the little 
things. Make up your mind that you will not lose your 
temper whatever may happen. If you succeed in con- 
trolling yourself in small matters, you will soon be master 
of yourself. 

Foster the health-giving qualities of cheerfulness, cour- 
age, and hope. That health and cheerfulness beget each 
other is proverbial. Care, worry, and sorrow cannot long 
remain in the presence of cheerfulness. Every organ of 
the body comes under its magic spell. It is a fountain 
of youth and health to its possessor and of happiness 
to his associates. 

Have the courage to undertake anything, but beware 
of overdoing, for nature will not fail to exact a penalty. 

Believe in yourself and in a beneficent Creator who 
has given you not only your existence but a body pro- 
vided with every means to resist disease ; for in this 
belief lies your hope in this world and in the future. 
If disease overtakes you, courage and hope are your 
best assets. Without them life is useless. 

QUESTIONS 

1 . What effects are sometimes caused by sudden mental shock ? 

2. What organs are especially influenced by the emotions? 

3. How may the action of the emotions lessen the power 
of the body to resist disease? 



INFLUENCE OF MIND UPON HEALTH 41 

4. Why should a strong effort be made to throw off care, 
worry, and sorrow ? 

5. How do anger, envy, and fear affect the health ? How 
may they be controlled ? 

6. How may we rise above misfortune ? 

7. How may the mind be diverted from thoughts that 
are depressing? 

8. How may one become master of himself ? 

9. What are the qualities to be cultivated ? 

10. What effect has cheerfulness upon health? 

11. Why should we avoid overdoing? 

12. What is the foundation of hope ? 

13. What are the best assets in sickness ? 



CHAPTER IX 
HYGIENE OF THE TEETH 

The cause of decay. Our ancestors had larger and 
stronger teeth than we have. In each succeeding gen- 
eration the teeth seem to be weaker and to require more 
of the dentist's care. This can probably be accounted for 
by the difference in food. Our predecessors were obliged 
to eat coarse foods, which required a much greater amount 
of chewing. The exercise of chewing insured a good blood 
and nerve supply to the teeth. With the present-day proc- 
esses of grinding and cooking, foods require little chew- 
ing. Consequently the teeth are weaker. Moreover, much 
of the food, owing to its fineness, sticks to the teeth and 
between them, and, unless removed, becomes the home 
of the bacteria of decay. Few people realize that this is 
so. It is, however, true that bacteria in the mouth are 
universal, and the numbers are limited only by the amount 
of food clinging to the teeth. These bacteria are the 
cause of decay of the teeth themselves ; hence the impor- 
tance of removing the food which harbors them. 

Importance of care of the teeth. There are great nat- 
ural differences in teeth ; but whether teeth be good or 
poor, they must not be neglected. Care will make up for 
many natural deficiencies. Following are some of the 
reasons why they should receive such care. 

42 



HYGIENE OF THE TEETH 43 

Neglected teeth look bad. Nothing injures the personal 
appearance more than bad teeth. Therefore everything 
possible ought to be done to make them look well. 

They cause indigestion. Without good teeth the food 
cannot be properly chewed. Insufficient chewing leads to 
indigestion, and the body, being poorly nourished, is more 
susceptible to disease. 

Their odor is offensive. Decaying teeth cause a bad 
breath, which is a great hindrance in any kind of work 
where one has to associate with other people. 

They invite disease. If the teeth are rough and coated 
with food, the bacteria of disease lodge on them and 
multiply, and from this source invade the body. 

They poison the system. The products of decay are 
poisonous and, when absorbed, lead to many distressing 
and perplexing symptoms. This is especially true when 
there are sacs of pus at the roots of the teeth, which is 
often the case where teeth are badly decayed. 

They cause tootJiache. All toothache and most cases of 
facial neuralgia are due to cavities in the teeth. If the 
small cavities are attended to regularly and filled as soon 
as discovered, all trouble from this source will be avoided. 

They are finally extracted. Neglected teeth finally be- 
come unserviceable, a constant source of suffering and a 
menace to health. It is necessary to have them removed 
and replaced by artificial ones, which are in no way to be 
compared to those which nature bestowed. 

Prevention of decay. Visit the dentist. All children 
should visit the dentist at least once a year, to have 
deformities remedied and cavities filled. By having the 



44 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

teeth examined two or three times a year the cavities 
can be rilled while they are very small. To fill a small 
cavity is inexpensive and does not hurt. Teeth that are 
crowded are much more likely to decay than those that 
are well spaced, and irregular teeth are unsightly. Such 
deformities may be easily corrected if attended to before 
the age of twenty-one. 

Keep the teeth clean. For failure to give personal care 
to the teeth there is no excuse. They should be made 
strong by use, that is, by chewing every mouthful of food 
thoroughly. They should also be cleaned carefully and 
frequently ; clean teeth do not decay. Form the habit 
of brushing the teeth night and morning at least. They 
ought to be brushed after every meal, but this is not 
always convenient. 

In brushing it is not sufficient to move the brush back 
and forth across the teeth ; it should be moved up and 
down as well, to remove the food which is between them. 
For this purpose the daily use of dental floss is also 
highly recommended. This is a soft waxed thread which 
can be obtained at any drug store. Drawing it between 
the teeth will remove particles of food which cannot be 
reached by the brush. 

The brush. The bristles of the brush should be in 
tufts. They should be stiff for adults (but not so stiff as 
to make the gums bleed) and softer for children. A brush 
should be thrown away when it becomes worn with use. 
Such a brush will not clean the teeth properly, and when 
flattened down is likely to loosen the edge of the gums 
from the teeth. 



HYGIENE OF THE TEETH 45 

Powders and pastes. Tooth powders and pastes are 
constructed in accordance with scientific principles. They 
are useful for cleaning and polishing the teeth, and they 
hinder the growth of bacteria in the mouth. No one need 
hesitate to adopt any of the well-known kinds. Pastes are 
as good as powders and much more convenient to use. 
One of these should be applied at least once a day. Liquid 
preparations are pleasant to use and have some excellent 
qualities, but they cannot take the place of powder or 
paste. A teaspoonful of salt in a glass of water makes 
an excellent mouth cleanser and gum hardener. It was 
in use long before tooth powders and pastes were invented, 
and is still recommended by the best dentists. 



QUESTIONS 

1. State two reasons why our teeth decay more quickly 
than those of people who lived a few generations ago. 

2. What are bacteria ? 

3. How important are the teeth to personal appearance ? 

4. Explain how bad teeth cause indigestion. 
6. How do they invite disease? 

6. Why is a bad breath a hindrance in business ? 

7. What is another name for pus ? Is pus poisonous ? Try 
to find out what are some of the distressing symptoms which 
are believed to be caused by the absorption of pus. 

8. How can toothache be prevented ? 

9. How do false teeth compare with real ones in appear- 
ance ? in usefulness ? 

10. How often should children visit the dentist? 



46 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

11. Why are crowded teeth more likely to decay than those 
that are well spaced ? 

12. Where are cavities usually found ? 

13. Why are deformities of the teeth more easily corrected 
in young people than in older people ? 

14. What two things should be done by everyone to preserve 
the teeth ? 

15. How often should the teeth be brushed? Why is after 
meals the most logical time ? 

16. How should the brush be moved in cleaning the teeth ? 
Why? 

17. What is dental floss ? How is it used ? 

18. Why should the bristles of a toothbrush be in tufts ? 

19. In what ways are tooth powders and pastes useful ? 

20. How do liquid preparations compare with powders and 
pastes ? 

21. How often should powder or paste be used ? 

22. What is the value of salt and water as a mouth wash ? 
In what proportions should the salt and water be used ? 



CHAPTER X 

THE SKIN 

Functions of the skin. The skin is a protective covering 
for the body, guarding it against mechanical injury and 
also against bacteria. 

It is a sensory organ, containing the nerves of touch. 
The skin is so well provided with these nerves that no 
portion of skin as large as the point of a pin can be 
found without them. Much of our knowledge depends 
upon this sense. With the skin removed, all sense of 
touch is gone, and in its place remains only the sensation 
of pain, which conveys no idea of any of the properties 
of our surroundings. 

It is a heat regidator for the body. It is largely through 
the action of the skin that the body is kept at the con- 
stant temperature of 98.4 F. The excess heat is disposed 
of by radiation from the skin and by perspiration. These 
two processes are in operation all the time, according to 
the bodily needs. When a great excess of heat is gener- 
ated, as in exercising, blood is sent to the skin, where its 
heat is rapidly radiated off if not hindered by too much 
clothing. At the same time the pores of the skin open 
and allow the millions of sweat glands to discharge per- 
spiration. This perspiration cools the body in two ways : 
by bringing heat out from the interior, and by evaporation. 

47 



48 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

The latter is the more effective. Evaporation always 
produces cooling ; and the more rapid the evaporation, 
the more rapid the cooling. In muggy weather we have 
a feeling of great bodily discomfort, almost of suffocation, 
because the air is too moist to take up the perspiration. 
There is almost no evaporation. The perspiration remains 
on the surface of the body, blocking the pores. In hot, 
dry weather there is less discomfort, because the perspira- 
tion evaporates. The same is true if there is a breeze or 
a draft. Air in motion, takes up moisture rapidly ; even 
the hot air driven against the face by a fan feels cool. 

On the other hand, if the body is exposed to cold, the 
blood leaves the surface, and the pores close, to prevent 
a chilling of the body and a lowering of the temperature. 
Upon the ability of the skin to act quickly and effectively 
depends the power to resist taking cold. 

It is an excretory organ. The normal amount of per- 
spiration which is given out is from a quart to a quart 
and a half daily. This is taken out of the blood by the 
sweat glands. It consists of water and waste products 
whose retention in the body would be harmful. A coat 
of varnish applied all over the body would cause death 
in a short time. 

Bathing. Dried sweat and oil, together with dust, dirt, 
and flakes of dead skin, quickly accumulate upon the sur- 
face of the body. If not removed, they tend to clog the 
pores and interfere with the work of the skin. Frequent 
baths will prevent this and will keep the skin in a vigor- 
ous condition. A frequent change of underclothing must 
be made if the body is to be kept free from offensive odors. 



THE SKIN 49 

The warm bath (also called the neutral bath). A bath 
should be taken at least once a week with soap and warm 
water (9<D -98F.), to cleanse the skin. The best time is 
just before retiring, as warm baths are soothing to the 
nerves and induce sleep. They are also good after exer- 
cise, but should be finished with water considerably cooler 
if the bather intends to go out of doors. This is to close 
the pores and prevent taking cold. Too many warm 
baths are weakening and hurt the digestion. 

The cold bath (65 F. or below). There are several 
kinds of cold baths : the sea bath, the tub bath, the 
shower bath, the sponge bath, and the hand bath. The 
sea and tub baths are the most severe, and in cold 
weather should be taken in the least possible time, just 
a dip. The shower is the best, as it produces the right 
effect without taking too much heat from the body. The 
sponge and hand baths are excellent and are within the 
reach of all. Soap is not necessary. It is well to begin 
with water not too cold. Water from the cold faucet in 
summer is about right for a beginner. Experienced bathers 
prefer it much colder. The best time is immediately after 
rising in the morning. For a tub bath the water should 
be drawn the night before, to avoid waiting. 

After bathing, rub the skin vigorously with a coarse 
towel. This should bring the blood to the surface freely, 
producing a redness of skin and a feeling of warmth. If 
a favorable reaction is not obtained after a few trials, cold 
baths should be stopped. 

The effects of cold baths are felt immediately. The 
nervous system is stimulated, and through the nervous 



50 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

system all the organs are toned up. Cold baths also make 
the skin hardy and tend to prevent colds. 

A cold bath may be taken before breakfast, but as a 
rule one ought not to bathe just before eating or within 
an hour and a half after, as a bath draws the blood to 
the surface of the body and away from the stomach, 
where it is needed at that time. 

The air bath. The cold-air bath is an excellent substi- 
tute for the cold-water bath, and is preferred by many, 
especially by those who find the latter too severe. It is 
taken by exercising five or ten minutes, while naked, in a 
cool room, or by rubbing the skin vigorously with a brush 
or with a coarse towel. The effects are milder than those 
of the cold-water bath, but are of the same kind. The 
body is stimulated and the skin becomes accustomed to 
cold air, which is of great value in avoiding colds. 

The Turkish bath is a hot-air bath. It thoroughly 
cleanses the skin, even removing the outer layers of 
dead skin. It is good for rheumatism, sore muscles, stiff 
joints, and to break up a cold. 

Swimming. A swimming bath has two advantages over 
other forms of cold baths, enjoyment and exercise. 
The common prejudice against swimming in fresh water 
is probably due to the fact that lake and river water 
is usually warm in midsummer, and warm baths are 
weakening, especially if frequent and prolonged. 

Sea bathing, if properly regulated, is very beneficial, 
but the practice of staying in a long time is harmful. 
From ten to twenty minutes is enough when the water 
is cold. To remain in the water until the teeth are 



THE SKIN 51 

chattering, the lips blue, and the fingers white is highly 
injurious. And the practice of entering the water slowly, 
inch by inch, fearing to get wet, and shrinking from the 
cold can only produce bad effects, as it drives the blood 
to the head. Anyone who has not the courage to plunge 
in at once had better stay out. The best way to enter, 
although it is not always practicable, is to plunge in head 
first. It is all right to go in when warm, but not when 
sweating. The best time for sea bathing is in the morn- 
ing, but in many places this is not practicable on account 
of the tide. A sun bath afterwards is very beneficial. 

Washing the face. The face ought to be washed with 
soap and warm water every night before going to bed. 
Do not neglect the neck and ears. In the morning wash 
the face with cold water, without soap. Cold water im- 
proves the complexion by stimulating the circulation of 
the blood in the skin, and also tones up the elastic tissue, 
which makes the skin smooth. Hot water makes the skin 
pale, rough, and flabby. 

Care of the hands. The hands ought to be washed with 
soap and water before eating, and as many other times 
a day as they need it. It is especially important to wash 
them before each meal, to prevent introducing bacteria 
into the mouth. Keep the nails clean ; dirty nails are 
unsightly and are sure to harbor harmful bacteria. Do 
not clean them with the point of a knife or with any 
sharp-edged instrument. This roughens the nails and the 
skin beneath, and makes them collect dirt more rapidly. 
The cleaning may be done with a pointed stick which 
has been moistened, or with a nailbrueh with soft bristles. 



52 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

Keep the skin pushed back at the base of the nails, to 
prevent hangnails. This may be done with a blunt stick 
or with a towel, but always when the hand is moist. 
Sticks of orange wood suitable for cleaning the nails and 
for pushing back the cuticle can be bought at a drug 
store for a small sum. Do not scrape the nails. Do not 
bite them. Cut or file them in a curve ; it is easier to 
keep them clean if they are short on the sides. 

Soap. It has been said that the comparative state of 
civilization of a nation is indicated by the amount of soap 
it uses, and probably this is generally true in regard to 
individuals. There is no other single commodity which 
has done so much to decrease the death rate. It removes 
disease germs and helps to stop the spread of contagious 
diseases. Fatal epidemics of diseases such as cholera, 
typhus fever, bubonic plague, and smallpox have always 
flourished among people who have been content to keep 
their houses and bodies unclean. 

There are many kinds of toilet soap, and some kinds 
are better than others. Usually the price is a good index 
of the quality, but not always. There are some excellent 
soaps that are inexpensive. Avoid using the cheap varie- 
ties that are highly scented, as they are made of inferior 
fats and the perfume is added to disguise that fact. One 
can make no mistake in using any standard soap. After 
washing, thoroughly rinse the soap from the hands and 
face with clear water. The practice of using liquid soap 
or soap powder in public lavatories is most sanitary. It 
prevents the spread of disease which might result from 
allowing different persons to use the same cake of soap. 



THE SKIN 



53 



QUESTIONS 

1. What is the meaning of. function ? 

2. In what ways does the skin protect the body ? 

3. What is a sensory organ ? 

4. What special sense does the skin contain ? 

5. Name some other sensory organs. 

6. Specify some of the things which we learn through the 
sense of touch. 

7. What is the normal temperature of the body ? 

8. How is the heat of the body supplied ? 

9. What becomes of the excess of heat ? 

10. How does the heat get to the surface ? 

11. Describe the action of the pores. 

12. How does the perspiration cool the body ? 

13. Explain why there is more bodily discomfort on a muggy 
day than on one that is hot and dry. 

14. Why does air in motion feel cool ? 

15. What changes take place if the body is exposed to cold ? 

16. What is an excretory organ ? Name some others besides 
the skin. 

17. How much perspiration is given out daily? Of what 
does it consist? 

18. What is the origin of these harmful products? 

19. Why is bathing necessary ? 

20. What else must be done to keep the body free from 
offensive odors ? 

21. When should warm baths be taken ? 

22. When should a warm bath be finished with water that 
is colder ? 



54 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

23. What effect do warm baths have upon the nerves? 
What bad effects are produced if too many are taken? 

24. Mention several ways of taking cold baths. What is the 
best way? Why? Why is soap not necessary? What is the 
best time? 

25. Why should water be drawn the night before for a tub 
bath? 

26. Why should the skin be rubbed with a coarse towel? 
What is meant by a favorable reaction ? 

27. What are the beneficial effects of cold baths? When 
are the effects felt? 

28. Why not bathe just before eating or within an hour 
and a half after ? What exception is there to this rule ? 

29. How is a cold-air bath taken? Why is it sometimes 
preferred to a cold-water bath ? What are its effects ? 

30. What is the nature of a Turkish bath? What does it 
accomplish ? For what is it good ? 

31. What are the advantages of a swimming bath ? 

32. Compare salt-water bathing with fresh-water bathing. 

33. How long may one stay in cold water? What are the 
signs that the stay has been too long ? 

34. What is the best way to enter the water? What harm 
is caused by standing around in cold water ? 

35. When is it wrong to go in ? 

36. What may well follow a sea bath ? 

37. Why are soap and warm water more needed on the face 
at night than in the morning ? 

38. What are the advantages of washing the face in cold 
water ? How does hot water affect the face ? 

39. When ought the hands to be washed ? Why before 
meals ? 



THE SKIN 55 

40. What are the advantages of keeping the nails clean ? 
Why not clean them with the point of a knife? What may 
be used? 

41. Why should the skin be kept pushed back from the 
nails ? With what may this be done ? Why should the nails be 
neither scraped nor bitten ? Why is it well to cut or file them 
in a curve ? 

42. How is it possible for soap to influence the death rate ? 
What are some of the diseases that flourish best where people 
are filthy ? 

43. Do you know of any excellent soap that is inexpensive ? 
What is the objection to soaps that are cheap and highly 
scented ? 

44. What should always be done after washing with soap ? 

45. Where are liquid soap and soap powders in general use ? 
Why is their use in such places most sanitary ? 



CHAPTER XI 

THE HAIR 

The scalp. Next to good teeth a fine head of hair is 
most essential to good looks. The one thing essential 
to a fine head of hair is a healthy scalp. A healthy scalp 
is thick, pliable, moves freely on the skull, and is abun- 
dantly supplied with blood. Also, it contains much fat. 
A poor scalp is thin and clings tightly to the skull. It 
does not contain nourishment enough to support a heavy 
growth of hair; it is as unreasonable to expect it as it 
would be to expect an abundant crop of wheat or potatoes 
on poor soil. A poor circulation of blood in the scalp is 
the principal cause of thinness of hair and of baldness. 

Dandruff consists of flakes of dead skin. It is gener- 
ally believed to be the cause of premature baldness. It 
is not the cause, but it is a sure sign that the scalp is in 
an unhealthy condition and that the hair will soon begin 
to come out if attention is not given to it at once. The 
cause of the dandruff and of the falling hair is the same, 
a neglected and unhealthy scalp. Likewise, what will 
cure one will cure the other also. 

Treatment. To keep the scalp in a healthy condition 
and prevent the hair from falling out, and to restore the 
scalp after the hair has begun to fall, there are four 
standard remedies : brushing, shampooing, massaging, and 

56 



THE HAIR -57 

oiling. The first and second are recommended for keep- 
ing a healthy scalp in good condition ; the third and 
fourth, for scalps that have begun to show a marked 
weakness. For such scalps, brushing and shampooing 
might prove too vigorous. 

Brushing. The scalp should be brushed morning and 
night with a stiff brush until a feeling of warmth is pro- 
duced by the blood coming to the surface. Great care 
should be exercised not to brush so vigorously or so long 
as to produce soreness. If this should happen, do not 
brush again until all tenderness has disappeared. 

The brush. For adults the bristles should be stiff and 
in tufts, and the tufts ought to be far enough apart so 
that the brush may be easily cleaned. For children and 
for others with tender scalps the bristles should be softer. 
The brush ought to be washed often with water contain- 
ing a little ammonia, and dried in the sun with the 
bristles down to keep the water from softening the glue. 
The brush is likely to be injured if dried by artificial heat, 
especially if it is forgotten and left too long. 

The comb ought to have teeth wide apart and blunt. 
Fine teeth pull the hair, and sharp teeth scratch and 
irritate the scalp. 

Shampooing is simply a thorough washing. The fre- 
quency of this operation depends largely upon one's 
occupation. It should be done often enough to keep the 
scalp clean and free from dandruff. Once a month is 
usually sufficient. Lather the head. Any good toilet soap 
will do. Rub the scalp vigorously with the ends of the 
fingers. Wash off the lather with warm water. Follow 



58 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

this with several rinsings. Dry thoroughly with towels. 
If possible, finish by exposure to direct sunlight. If this 
is not possible, substitute the kitchen stove or a warm 
radiator. 

Massaging is merely rubbing the scalp with the ends 
of the fingers. Use a variety of motions. It forces the 
blood along in the veins and allows new blood to enter. 
It also brings the oil out of the oil glands and distributes 
it over the scalp and the hair. A part of the time use 
both hands, and endeavor to move the scalp and to lift 
it slightly from the skull. 

Oiling. Shampooing sometimes makes the hair dry. 
Another cause of dry hair and dry scalp is the artificially 
heated air of the rooms in which we live. Whatever the 
cause, if the scalp is dry, some kind of oil ought to be 
applied. There is nothing better than vaseline. It has 
many times restored a scalp to a healthy condition when 
everything else has failed. Part the hair and apply the 
vaseline directly to the scalp with the ends of the fingers. 
Rub it in thoroughly. Avoid putting the vaseline on the 
hair. Olive oil also gives excellent results. 

General suggestions. Wetting the hair occasionally in 
cold water will do no harm, provided the hair is thor- 
oughly dried before combing. The cold bath toughens 
the scalp and prevents colds, and the rubbing neces- 
sary to drying stimulates the circulation'. The practice of 
wetting the hair every morning is not recommended, 
as it removes too much oil. Combing the hair wet is 
harmful, as it keeps the roots too moist and favors the 
growth of bacteria. 



rTHE HAIR 59 

Cutting the hair makes it grow faster but does not 
make it any thicker; that is, it does not increase the 
number of hairs. It is well to keep children's hair short, 
tt makes it easier to keep the scalp clean, and also allows 
;he easy access of sunlight and air. 
In dressing the hair, avoid pulling. Pulling the hair 
las a tendency to loosen it and to make it fall out. 
Twists and knots that are uncomfortable should be 
avoided. 

Hair tonics all fail to do what is claimed for them 
in the advertisements. Most of them are applied with 
rubbing, and that is their chief virtue. 

Large, unsightly hairs can be removed from the face 
by the use of the electric needle without leaving scars 
and without pain. This should always be done by a 
skilled operator. The use of any patent applications for 
this purpose is dangerous and cannot be too strongly 
condemned. 

Gray hairs appear in some heads much earlier than 
in others. Nothing has yet been discovered to prevent 
them. Dyeing the hair destroys its natural beauty and is 
not resorted to by people of the best taste. 

Hats. Premature baldness among men is very com- 
mon. Probably tight-fitting hats have more to do with 
this than any other cause. To be convinced that the hat 
is especially bad it is only necessary to observe that bald- 
ness does not extend below the line of the hat in the 
majority of cases. Many times it can be seen that the 
hat has made a deep indentation, or furrow, around 
the head. The arteries which supply the scalp with 



60 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

blood pass upward between the skin and the hard, un- 
yielding skull. Any hat tightly pulled down is sufficient 
to account for a dry, starved scalp. But the ordinary hat 
does more than that ; it keeps out the beneficial rays of 
the sun, stops the circulation of air, and prevents proper 
evaporation of perspiration. The derby is the most ob- 
jectionable of the contrivances worn by men and boys, 
and the cloth cap is the least objectionable. Women's 
hats are not so bad, because they do not fit the head. 
They allow free access of air and do not hinder the cir- 
culation. Women are rarely prematurely bald. If it were 
customary for men to go bareheaded, baldness would be 
uncommon. Nobody ever heard of a bald-headed savage. 
Do not wear a hat more than is necessary ; never wear 
it in the house. Avoid pulling your hat down tightly, 
especially when perspiring. Go bareheaded when exer- 
cising. Do not sit with the head near a lighted lamp, a 
gas jet, or an electric light. 

QUESTIONS 

1. What are the characteristics of a healthy scalp ? of a 
poor scalp ? 

2. What is the principal cause of baldness ? 

3. What is dandruff ? Of what is it a sign ? 

4. For what are brushing and shampooing recommended ? 
oiling and massaging ? 

5. Why does brushing produce a feeling of warmth ? 

6. What precaution should be taken in regard to brushing? 
Why? 

7. What kind of brush is most easily cleaned ? 



THE HAIR 



6l 



8. Give directions for cleaning a hair brush. 

9. Why should the teeth of a comb be wide apart? Why 
should they be blunt ? 

10. What is shampooing ? How often should it be done ? 

11. Give directions for shampooing. 

12. What is massage ? What are the benefits of massage ? 

13. Give directions for massaging the scalp. 

14. How may a dry scalp be caused ? 

15. What remedies are recommended for a dry scalp ? Give 
directions for applying them. 

16. What is the objection to wetting the hair every morn- 
ing ? of combing it wet ? 

17. What are the advantages of keeping the hair short ? 

18. In dressing the hair, what should be avoided ? Why? 

19. What is the value of hair tonics? 

20. How may large, unsightly hairs be removed from the 
face? What precautions are suggested? 

2 1. Can anything be done to prevent gray hairs ? 

22. What are the objections to dyeing the hair ? 

23. In what four ways are men's hats bad for the scalp ? 

24. Why are women's hats better ? 

25. Mention four precautions which should be taken in 
order to preserve the hair. 



CHAPTER XII 
CLOTHING 

Wool. For fall, winter, and spring, in a climate where 
the changes are frequent and sudden, there is no other 
material so good as wool for garments to be worn next 
to the body, especially for those who are much in the 
open air. There are two reasons for this : One is that 
wool, from the nature of its fibers, is loosely woven and 
so contains much air space. Air is a very poor con- 
ductor of heat. Hence woolen garments tend to prevent 
the escape of heat from the body. The other reason is 
that wool can absorb a great deal of moisture without 
causing a feeling of dampness or cold. This is because 
wool, while it absorbs the moisture readily, allows it to 
evaporate very slowly. If the evaporation were rapid, 
the result would be quite different, for evaporation pro- 
duces cooling. 

Of the disadvantages of wearing wool there are two 
that are important : it is expensive, and it is inclined to 
shrink and contract its air spaces in washing. For the 
former there is no remedy, but the latter can be largely 
overcome by using care in washing. Wool should be 
washed in tepid water, with soap used sparingly, and 
without violent rubbing. Use soap of good quality. Do 
not rub it on the cloth, but dissolve it in the water. 

62 



CLOTHING 63 

Before hanging them out, pull the garments into nearly 
their original shape. As it is very important that wool 
should be dried as quickly as possible, do not wash 
woolen garments on a cloudy day. 

Cotton. The world uses more cotton cloth than all 
other fabrics combined. It is cheap, strong, and durable ; 
it does not absorb odors readily ; and it shrinks much 
less than wool. Furthermore, its fibers lie so close to- 
gether that little air is retained, and consequently heat is 
allowed to escape freely from the body. Therefore it is 
a very cool material for summer clothing or for garments 
worn in heated rooms in winter. This close texture, how- 
ever, is the cause of one serious disadvantage : namely, 
that it easily becomes wet and permits rapid evapora- 
tion, which is likely to chill the body. Much of the value 
of cotton for underwear depends upon the quality of the 
material and the way in which it is manufactured. That 
is best which is loosely woven and porous. 

Garments of cotton and wool mixed combine some 
of the best qualities of both, and are preferred by many, 
especially for winter wear, to those made of either cotton 
or wool alone. 

Winter clothing. Most men whose occupation is in- 
doors make the mistake of dressing too warmly in winter. 
When the cold weather begins they put on a heavy out- 
side suit and heavy underwear, and then remain all 
day in rooms where the air is unnaturally dry and at 
a temperature nearly equaling summer heat. Some do 
even worse than this, and sit in small, highly heated 
offices with the windows closed. No fresh air reaches 



64 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

the skin, the rays of light cannot penetrate the clothing, 
and the pores are kept continually open. The result is, 
that -in a short time the skin, thus stifled, gets into a; 
generally weakened condition, so that it is unable to 
react and accommodate itself to changes, and this causes 
tenderness, colds, and other troubles. 

Some men, on the contrary, go to the opposite ex- 
treme and wear thin cotton underclothing all winter, and 
even go without an overcoat. This seems unwise, as it 
allows too great a loss of heat from the body. 

The best method is somewhere between these two 
extremes, and probably would consist in wearing medium- 
weight clothing indoors, with the addition of a warm 
overcoat when going out. Also, the practice of changing 
the ordinary street coat for a light house or office coat on 
coming in seems to be excellent. 

Rubber raincoats. These are suitable for riding, because 
they keep out the wind and rain ; but they are not so 
good for walking, as they keep in the perspiration and 
do not allow a sufficient circulation of air. Raincoats 
of waterproofed cloth are preferable, as they are better 
ventilated. 

Stockings. The feet perspire more freely than most 
other parts of the body, and the odor of perspiration is 
offensive. Hence it is necessary to change the stockings 
often. There are great individual differences in amount 
of perspiration, and one rule will not do for all ; but it 
is safe to say that there is no danger of changing the 
stockings too often. Many people think that once a 
week is sufficient, but some ought to change every day, 



CLOTHING 65 

especially in warm weather. Also, stockings wear better 
if washed frequently. Soiled stockings are subject to 
bacterial action which weakens the fiber. 

Garters. Circular garters, if tight, interfere with 'the 
circulation of the blood, especially hindering the return 
of the blood from the feet to the heart. The veins in 
which this return is made lie near the surface, so that 
not only is the flow of blood retarded but sometimes the 
veins themselves become permanently enlarged, which 
is a very serious matter. On the other hand, hose sup- 
porters sometimes tend to cause a stooping carriage and 
round shoulders. In either case great care should be 
taken not to have them unnecessarily tight. 

Corsets. It is extremely unhygienic to wear corsets 
and girdles that are tight. 

1. They interfere with the breathing, especially weak- 
sning the lower part of the lungs. 

2. By taking the place of muscles in supporting the 
body, they destroy the efficiency of the muscles and 
weaken the waist and back. 

3. They crowd the internal organs and seriously inter- 
fere with their action. In order to do their best work, 
the heart, lungs, liver, stomach, and other internal organs 
need all the room which nature provided for them. 

4. Tight corsets and their natural resultants, a weak 
waist and back, cause a stiff and awkward carriage, con- 
trasting very unfavorably with that of the strong and 
natural waist, which gives grace and harmony to the 
movements of the body. 



66 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

QUESTIONS 

1. Why are woolen garments especially useful in prevent- 
ing the escape of heat from the body ? 

2. Why do they not make one feel cold even though they 
are damp ? 

3. What are the disadvantages of woolen clothing ? 

4. Give directions for washing woolen garments. 

5. W T hat are the good qualities of cotton cloth ? 

6. Why is cotton excellent for summer clothing? What 
is its principal disadvantage? What is the best cotton for 
underwear ? 

7. Why is it harmful to dress too warmly in winter ? 

8. Why is it unwise to wear winter clothing that is too 
thin? 

9. What is the most hygienic way to dress in cold weather ? 

10. Why are rubber raincoats not good for walking ? What 
is better ? Why ? 

11. Why is it necessary to change the stockings often ? 

12. Why are circular garters not recommended ? 

13. Why should hose supporters not be too tight ? 

14. State four reasons why tight corsets and girdles are 
unhygienic. 



CHAPTER XIII 

SHOES 

Importance of fit. Comfort ought to be the first con- 
sideration in selecting shoes. To be comfortable they 
ought to fit. To fit they must be shaped like the foot, 
and be neither too large nor too small. An idea of the 
shape of the foot can be gained by placing the foot on 
a piece of paper and marking around it with a pencil. 
It will be evident at once that a shoe with a pointed toe 
or one with a square toe will not fit. No matter what 
fashion dictates, the toe of a shoe should be rounded if 
it is to conform to the foot. 

Size. When a new shoe is first put on, it should be 
longer than the foot by one half or three fourths of an 
inch. With use the foot will work forward and take up 
the extra space. If properly selected, a new shoe will 
be perfectly comfortable. 

Sole. A flat sole is preferable to one that is rounded 
at the end and sides, on account of its greater bearing 
surface on the ground. The sole should be thick enough 
to be firm, but not too thick to be pliable. 

Heel. Regardless of fashion, heels should be broad 
and low for all except those whose feet have already be- 
come permanently deformed. High heels, especially the 
exaggerated kinds, strain and weaken the arch of the 

67 



68 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

foot ; they throw the weight forward onto the toes and, 
by crowding them into the ends of the shoes, cause corns, 
bunions, and deformed toes. 

Height. Low shoes are more hygienic than high 
shoes, because they allow better ventilation to the feet. 
Also, by giving no support to the ankles, they tend to 
make them stronger. There is no doubt that they are 
better than high shoes for summer wear, but they hardly 
afford protection enough for winter, and are especially 
bad in snow. 

Material. Glazed leathers (patent finish) are imper- 
meable to air and do not allow the perspiration to evapo- 
rate properly. Hence they are not as good for the feet 
as leather of the ordinary finish. Tan shoes are cooler 
than black and so are better adapted to summer wear. 

Weight for winter. If a person's occupation keeps him 
out of doors all day, heavy, warm, waterproof shoes are 
undoubtedly the best ; but if much of the time is spent 
indoors, they are far from ideal. In the house they are 
too warm and cause the feet to sweat. Since they are 
waterproof, the perspiration cannot escape, and on going 
out in the cold the feet feel damp and uncomfortable. 
A better plan would be to wear shoes of medium weight, 
and in cold or wet weather to add rubbers or arctic over- 
shoes. Rubbers and overshoes by keeping the feet warm 
and dry are of value in preventing colds, but should never 
be worn in the house or in the schoolroom, for they cause 
sweating and tenderness of the feet, which will more than 
offset the protection which they otherwise would afford. 



SHOES 69 

QUESTIONS 

1. Why does a shoe with a square or a pointed toe not fit 
the foot ? 

2. How can a good idea of the size and shape of the foot 
be obtained ? 

3. How much longer than the foot ought a new shoe to 
be? Why? 

4. Why is a flat sole preferable to any other ? 

5. What are the advantages of broad soles ? 

6. What is the proper thickness of soles ? 

7. Why are high heels harmful ? 

8. Why are low shoes more hygienic than high shoes ? 
What other advantage do they possess ? When are they at a 
disadvantage ? 

9. Why are patent-leather shoes not as hygienic as other 
kinds ? 

10. Why are tan shoes better for summer than black ? 

11. Why are waterproof shoes not good for indoor wear? 
What is a good arrangement for winter ? 

12. Why should rubbers and overshoes not be worn indoors ? 



CHAPTER XIV 

THE NOSE AND THROAT 

Parts of the nose. The nose consists of two parts, the 
outer, or facial, part and an inner part in the skull. The 
outer nose is divided into two parts by a bone called 
the vomer. The inner nose consists of two high and 
narrow air passages extending as far back as the roof of 
the mouth does. These end in a roomy chamber called 
the nasopharynx. The nose is lined with delicate mucous 
membrane containing many nerves and many mucous 
glands. 

Functions of the nose. The nose has several functions. 
It warms the air inhaled and supplies moisture to it ; it 
catches dust by hairs at its entrance and by its moist 
lining ; it destroys harmful germs. The moist mucus is 
a mild germicide. The sense of smell is also located in 
the nose. 

Obstructions to the nasal passages. The most common 
nasal troubles are due to obstructions to the passages. The 
obstructions are usually caused by swelling of the mucous 
lining, adenoid growths, or mucous growths called polypi. 

Adenoid growths are caused by enlargement of the 
third tonsil, a structure situated behind the posterior open- 
ing of the nose. This condition is common in children 
and calls for surgical treatment. 

70 



THE NOSE AND THROAT 71 

Polypi are more common in adults than adenoid 
growths are, and they require the same kind of treat- 
ment. Swelling of the mucous membrane is common to 
all ages and is due to an inflammatory condition from 
colds in the head. 

Obstruction in the nasal passages produces mouth 
breathing. As a natural result in children the nasal pas- 
sages do not grow, but remain abnormally small ; the 
upper jaw remains narrow, and the front upper teeth are 
crowded together and pushed forward until they protrude, 
making the upper jaw longer than the lower. Examples 
of this are very common. The habit of sucking the 
thumb produces the same malformation. Another bad 
result of mouth breathing is that dust and germs of diph- 
theria, bronchitis, pneumonia, and tuberculosis have direct 
entrance to the throat, air passages, and lungs. 

Tonsils. The tonsils are small, almond-shaped bodies 
situated on the sides of the throat, one on each side. They 
may be seen by the aid of a hand mirror. If enlarged, 
they are more liable to infection than any other part of the 
body. If greatly enlarged, they may interfere with breath- 
ing and hearing. They are frequently enlarged as a result 
of repeated colds and sore throat. Their removal is not 
difficult and is often attended with very beneficial results. 

Focal infection. The danger of bodily infection from 
decayed teeth has been mentioned in a previous chapter. 
The tonsils, the root of the tongue, and the cavities of 
the head leading into the nose are even greater sources 
of danger. If there is infection in any of these parts, 
the bacteria from the infected part as a source or focus 



T2 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

are carried away in the blood, and, becoming established 
in some other part of the body, may cause heart disease, 
goiter, rheumatism, kidney trouble, or some other serious 
bodily condition. There is no way in which one can 
guard against focal infection except by a periodic exami- 
nation by a physician. 

Colds. Many persons fail to realize the importance 
of colds. Colds are bacterial diseases and must not be 
regarded too lightly. They lower the vitality of the body 
and reduce its power of resistance to other diseases. 
Neglected colds frequently result in tuberculosis, pneu- 
monia, and other serious diseases. 

Conditions which accompany colds. There is always 
an inflamed condition of the part of the body in which 
a cold is located. If the cold is in the head, the in- 
flammation is in the lining of the nose; if in the throat, 
it is in the lining of the pharynx and larynx ; if in the 
chest, it is in the lining of the windpipe and its branches 
in the lungs. The inflamed part is flushed with blood 
and is red, swollen, and sometimes hot and painful. 

Conditions which favor taking cold. Inflammation is 
not the cause of a cold, but an inflamed condition is 
most favorable to its beginning. Inflammation in the 
delicate linings of the nose, throat, and air tubes is due 
to congestion, which in turn is caused by an oversupply 
of blood in the inflamed part. Oversupply of blood in 
the internal surfaces of the body is produced by a con- 
striction, or narrowing, of the blood vessels near the 
external surfaces. This is caused by a chill to the sur- 
face, not sudden, but prolonged. From a sudden chilling 



THE NOSE AND THROAT 73 

of short duration there is a quick recovery, in which the 
blood returns to the surface with more than its usual 
vigor, but in prolonged cooling, even though the tem- 
perature be only a little below that which is comfortable, 
there is no such natural reaction. Hence it is the pro- 
longed chilling which is to be feared and avoided. The 
most common causes are sitting or lying down without 
sufficient covering in a room that is too cold, sitting in 
a draft or in clothing that is damp, and going out into 
cold air after being in an overheated room. Any one of 
these conditions will produce a cooling of the body which 
will drive the blood from the surface into the internal 
organs. This result does not follow if one is exercising 
enough to keep the blood circulating freely in the skin. 
Treatment. If promptly attended to in its earliest 
stages, much may be done to relieve a cold ; but if 
allowed to get a good start, all that can be done is to 
keep the body in as vigorous a condition as possible 
until the cold has run its course. The first thing is to 
try to restore the skin to its normal condition. This can 
be done by putting on more clothing, by changing to dry 
clothing if necessary, or by remaining in a warm room. 
If this is not sufficient, benefit may be derived from a 
hot bath or from drinking a generous amount of hot 
water or of hot lemonade. If a cold does not yield to 
this treatment in its first stages, it is of very little use 
to try to doctor it yourself. From this point on, the very 
best one can do (and this cannot be emphasized too 
much) is to remain in bed, warmly (not too warmly) 
covered, in a room well ventilated but free from drafts. 



74 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

It is well to wear some kind of cap on the head for 
additional protection. Light food only should be eaten, 
and great care should be taken not to overeat. Exercise 
should be avoided, and no work should be done, so that 
the body may have full use of its resistive power. A severe 
cold requires the attention of a physician. 

Prevention of colds. People differ greatly in their sus- 
ceptibility to colds. Some have them often, while others 
are practically immune. It is impossible to state why 
this is so or to give any rules by which colds may always 
be prevented. If certain precautions are taken, however, 
many colds may be avoided. Those who take cold easily 
should heed the following suggestions : 

Keep the body clean, and keep it in the best physical 
condition by plain, nourishing food, fresh air, sunlight, 
sleep, and exercise. A fatigued body is susceptible to 
any disease. 

Spend a part of each day in the open air, and try to 
accustom the skin to cold air and drafts. Those who 
live out of doors rarely have colds. 

Do not keep your living rooms too warm or wear too 
warm clothing indoors. Both of these practices weaken 
the resisting power of the skin. 

Avoid the bad air of overcrowded and poorly venti- 
lated rooms. It is likely to contain the germs of many 
diseases. 

Change from damp to dry clothing as soon as you 
stop exercising. 

Cold-air baths are excellent, also cold-water baths for 
those who are strong enough to endure them. 



THE NOSE AND THROAT 75 

Colds are infectious. Avoid the breath of anyone who 
has a cold. If you have a cold, be careful not to give 
it to others. Keep the mouth covered when coughing 
or sneezing. 

Catarrh. Catarrh is caused by repeated colds which 
are neglected. It is difficult to cure. It certainly cannot 
be cured by any of the highly advertised patent remedies. 
It can be prevented by taking proper care of each cold 
as it occurs. The best treatment that can be recom- 
mended is that which is suggested under the heading 
" Prevention of colds." 



QUESTIONS 

1. Describe the outer nose ; the inner nose. 

2. In what does the inner nose end ? 

3. With what is the nose lined ? 

4. What are the functions of the nose ? 

5. What are the most common obstructions to the nasal 
passages ? 

6. What are adenoids ? How should they be treated ? 

7 . What are polypi ? How should they be treated ? 

8. What are the results of mouth breathing ? 

9. Describe the tonsils. Why are enlarged tonsils a source 
of danger? 

10. What parts of the head are especially liable to dangerous 
infection ? 

11. Explain how such an infection may lead to disorders in 
other parts of the body. What precaution should be taken ? 

12. What serious results often follow colds ? 



;6 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

13. Describe some of the conditions which accompany colds. 

14. How are colds frequently caused ? 

15. What is the best way to treat colds in their earlier 
stages ? 

16. How should colds be treated if they do not yield to first 
treatment ? 

17. Mention several precautions against taking cold. 

18. How may the body be kept in good condition ? 

19. In what places is bad air likely to be found ? 

20. What should be done to avoid taking a cold from 
another person? 

21. What should be done to avoid giving a cold to another ? 

22. How is catarrh caused ? How may it be prevented ? 



CHAPTER XV 
THE CHEST AND LUNGS 

Round shoulders and flat chests. Eighty per cent of 
all lung troubles originate in the top of the lungs. Per- 
sons with round shoulders and flat chests are much more 
likely to have diseases of the lungs than are those with 
well-formed chests. The flat chest presses down upon 
the upper parts of the lungs, so that they are rarely 
filled with air. This disuse causes poor circulation of 
blood in these parts and a weakened condition which 
invites disease. 

Lateral curvature. Another common deformity among 
school children is a bend to the side, called lateral curva- 
ture. This and round shoulders are often caused by im- 
proper sitting at a school desk, especially when the pupil 
is tired. It is also harmful to stand habitually with the 
weight on the same foot and to carry books always on 
the same side. In lateral curvature one shoulder is lower 
than the other, and trouble is caused in the top of one 
lung only. 

The seat of the trouble. The chest of a young, grow- 
ing child is plastic, and while it easily gets into a wrong 
position by some improper practice, it may easily be 
brought back to its normal position by proper care and 
treatment if taken in season. Although the deformed 

77 



78 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

chest shows most plainly in the shoulders, the real seat 
of the trouble is in the muscles of the back. This is 
easily demonstrated by raising the chest as high as pos- 
sible by muscular force, and keeping it there for a 
minute or two. The feeling of fatigue which results 
will not be noticeable in the chest or shoulders, but in 
the large muscles of the lower part of the back. 

Remedy. The remedy is to strengthen the weak 
muscles. The surest and quickest way to accomplish 
this is by a systematic set of exercises, prescribed by a 
teacher of physical training and performed regularly with 
the use of gymnasium apparatus. In case this is not 
possible, another method is suggested which requires no 
gymnasium, no apparatus, no special allotment of time, 
and is efficient in preventing as well as in remedying 
the defect. 

Whenever you feel tired in school, instead of slouch- 
ing down and leaning on the desk, square the shoulders 
and raise the chest as high as possible. Then take two 
or three breaths, slowly filling the lungs to their full 
capacity. This will not only relieve the feelings, but, if 
done regularly, will strengthen the muscles of the back, 
give a correct position to the shoulders and chest, en- 
large the chest, and improve the circulation of blood 
in the lungs. 

Get into the habit of squaring the shoulders, raising 
the chest, and filling the lungs whenever you start to go 
from one recitation to another. Do the same in the 
open air on leaving school and when starting for school 
in the morning. 



THE CHEST AND LUNGS 79 

All of the above should be done seriously and without 
attracting attention. 

If these exercises are persisted in, the muscles of the 
back will grow so strong that the correct position will 
become the natural one and will be assumed at all times 
without thought or consciousness. Indeed, in a compara- 
tively short time it will be difficult to assume any other. 

Benefits of erect carriage. Not only is an erect and 
easy carriage conducive to health, but it is also of great 
importance to personal appearance. It is absolutely essen- 
tial to physical beauty, and is so suggestive of force, 
ability, and self-respect as to become easily an important 
asset in determining success in any business or profession. 

Shoulder braces are worse than useless. They make a 
person stiff and awkward, and weaken the very muscles 
that need strengthening. This does not apply to cases 
of diseased spines which may require braces in treatment. 

Consumption. Consumption, or tuberculosis of the 
lungs, is a world-wide disease. There are more than 
a million deaths per year from consumption in the 
world, and in the United States about 100,000 deaths 
per year, which is nearly one tenth of the total number 
of deaths from all causes. 

Consumption is not inherited, but some families are 
more susceptible to it than others. It is infectioits ; that 
is, it can be transmitted from one person to another. 
The two great sources of danger are the person who has 
the disease, and infected dust. 

The greatest danger is from carelessness. In cough- 
ing, in sneezing, and in speaking, little drops of saliva 



80 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

are discharged into the air for a distance of from two 
and a half to three feet. This saliva is infected. It is 
more dangerous than infected dust and cannot be too 
carefully avoided. One breath of this tainted air is suffi- 
cient to transmit the disease, provided the germs find a 
suitable lodging place in the nose, throat, or lungs. 

The sputum. Every drop of a consumptive's sputum 
contains thousands of living, active bacteria, every one 
of which is capable of transmitting the disease. The 
bacteria discharged in the sputum of a diseased person 
in one day amount to many millions. If all the people 
afflicted with this disease were to spit promiscuously, the 
air would soon be filled with germs. Unfortunately there 
are many who do. Careless spitting is the cause not only 
of much consumption but also of colds, bronchitis, and 
pneumonia. When the sputum dries, the bacteria are 
blown about in the dust of the air. They are in a dor- 
mant condition, but for a long time retain the power of 
awakening into activity in the lungs of those who are 
unfortunate enough to inhale them. One of the best 
movements of the present time is that which prohibits 
spitting in public places. Many persons are prevented 
by fear of arrest, but every intelligent person should 
cheerfully conform in the interest of public welfare. 

If every consumptive would spit into a receptacle con- 
taining a strong antiseptic solution, or into a cloth which 
is immediately burned, consumption would soon become a 
rare disease. The best solutions are a 5 per cent solution 
of carbolic acid and a strong solution of lye. The edges 
of the containing vessels should be protected from flies. 



THE CHEST AND LUNGS 8 1 

Infected dust. Disease germs are more abundant in 
houses than in the open air. Therefore let the air and 
sunlight into the house. Direct sunlight is said to kill 
the germs of consumption in half an hour. Disease 
germs of all kinds are most abundant in the air of 
damp, dark, poorly ventilated rooms. The room in which 
a consumptive has lived must be fumigated. This should 
be done in a very thorough manner. Experiments prove 
that the bacteria of consumption may become active after 
remaining several weeks upon the floor, walls, carpet, 
and draperies of a consumptive's room. From this source 
of contagion whole families have died in the past, before 
the nature of the disease was understood. 

Curability. It is claimed that about 75 per cent of 
the cases of consumption are curable if discovered early 
and if treatment is undertaken at once. It is a matter 
of record in Massachusetts, however, that only about 
i6| per cent of the cases that come under the care of 
physicians actually recover. The disease is well under- 
stood, is being successfully treated, and has steadily de- 
creased since the discovery of its cause by Koch in 1881. 
Statistics show that it has decreased more than 50 per 
cent in the United States in the last thirty years. 

Influence of climate. Experience has proved conclu- 
sively that some climates are more favorable to weak and 
diseased lungs than others. Therefore, if possible, one 
who belongs to a consumptive family should move to a 
favorable climate before he is compelled to. The suburbs 
are better than the city, and an elevation is better than 
the sea level. The most ideal conditions are found in 



82 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

Arizona, Colorado, and New Mexico. Owing to their 
great distance from the sea or any other large bodies of 
water, the air is dry and there is comparatively little 
cloudy weather. Dry air and sunshine are hostile to dis- 
ease germs. On account of the high elevation the air is 
thin and free from the heavier kinds of dust. This rare- 
fied air compels deep breathing, so that all parts of the 
lungs must be used. More blood passes through their 
capillaries, and the weak parts become strong. Moreover, 
the nights are cool, insuring refreshing sleep. 

Home treatment. While cool nights and dry air that 
is free from dust and germs represent the most favorable 
conditions, fortunately they are not essential to a cure. 
Many people afflicted with tuberculosis are unable, for 
financial or other reasons, to make any change of climate, 
and must make the best of conditions at home. This 
should not in any way be considered discouraging, for 
home treatment has been so perfected as to become 
effective, if properly carried out, in all cases except those 
which have progressed too far before treatment is begun. 
The remedy is plenty of sunlight, fresh air, nourishing 
food, and rest. Avoid exercise and everything that annoys. 
Keep warm and remain in the open air twenty-four hours 
a day, summer and winter. 

Every case of consumption should be under the care 
of a physician, and a physician should be consulted 
immediately if consumption is suspected. 

Prevention. Immunity depends largely upon the .stand- 
ard of one's health. Those who are ill fed and poorly 
nourished, and who live in badly ventilated rooms, are 



THE CHEST AND LUNGS 83 

the most susceptible to consumption. Some are immune 
even under these conditions ; others can avoid the dis- 
ease only by keeping in the most robust health. In 
general, if you wish to avoid consumption or any other 
disease, eat plain, nourishing food, take plenty of sleep, 
be in the open air as much as possible, exercise regularly, 
and avoid alcohol, tobacco, and excesses of all kinds. 

QUESTIONS 

1. Why are people with flat chests more subject to lung 
troubles than those with well-formed chests ? 

2. How are round shoulders often caused ? 

3. How is lateral curvature caused ? 

4. Where is the seat of the trouble if the chest is flat and 
the shoulders are round ? How can this be demonstrated ? 

5. What is the best way to remedy these defects ? Give direc- 
tions for overcoming these defects without the use of apparatus. 

6. What are the benefits of an erect carriage ? 

7. Why are shoulder braces not recommended ? 

8. What per cent of the deaths in the United States are 
caused by consumption ? 

9. Is consumption inherited? What is meant by saying 
that a person is susceptible ? What does infectious mean ? 

10. Explain how a careless person who has consumption 
may be a great source of danger to others. 

11. Explain how spitting in public places may become the 
cause of consumption and of other diseases. 

12. How should a consumptive's sputum be disposed of? 

13. Why should the room where a consumptive has lived 
be thoroughly fumigated ? 



84 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

14. To what extent does consumption yield to treatment ? 

15. Explain why country air is better for weak lungs than 
city air ; an elevation better than sea level ; dry air better than 
damp ; sunshine better than cloudy weather. 

16. In what parts of the United States are the conditions 
most nearly ideal for consumptives ? 

17. Outline a method of home treatment for consumptives. 

18. Under what conditions are persons most liable to contract 
consumption ? 

19. Give an outline of how anyone should live in order to 
avoid consumption and other diseases. 



CHAPTER XVI 

THE EYE 

Defective vision. Defects of vision are much more 
common than they were a few generations ago. This is 
due to our changed conditions of living. If our eyes 
were used no more than were those of our ancestors, in 
study, in reading, in sewing, and in other fine work at 
short range, our sight would be as good as theirs. The 
normal eye sees objects at a distance without effort, but 
has to exert itself to see clearly small objects which must 
be held nearer than three or four feet. This change in 
the eye is called accommodation, and is brought about by 
the action of muscles. Much of the work of to-day re- 
quires the use of the eyes upon near objects. The pro- 
longed use in this way produces a strain upon the muscles 
which is responsible, more than anything else, for the 
defective vision which is so common. 

Signs of defective sight. Eye defects do not, as a rule, 
tend to correct themselves, but, on the contrary, grow 
steadily worse. Hence it is imperative to consult an ocu- 
list as soon as the trouble begins to make itself known. 
The most common signs of defective sight are indistinct 
vision, tiring quickly from reading or study, and nervous- 
ness or headaches. 

Indistinct vision is shown by a blurring or running 

85 



86 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

together of letters, inability to read fine print, or inability 
to see what is written on a blackboard across a room. 
Headaches are very common from eyestrain, and many 
are the witnesses who can testify to prompt relief upon 
being properly fitted to glasses. 

Long sight. The power of accommodation grows less 
as people grow older. Consequently most middle-aged 
and old people require glasses for reading. 

Short sight. Many young people so strain their eyes 
by improper use at close range that the eyes become 
permanently deformed and are unable to return to their 
normal shape. Hence objects at a distance are seen 
indistinctly. This condition may be brought about by 
reading fine print or by reading in a bad light. Avoid 
print that is too small to be read easily at arm's length. 
All persons with short sight should resort to glasses. 

Watering of the eyes. The tear glands lie just above 
the outer corners of the eyes and normally secrete only 
enough tears to keep the eyes moist. Any slight excess 
is carried to the nose through the tear ducts, which lead 
from the inner corners of the eyes. Occasionally, from 
emotion or from irritation by wind, dust, or intense light, 
the amount of moisture becomes excessive, and tears over- 
flow and run down the face. If this difficulty is tempo- 
rary, it may be ignored, but if it continues, it requires 
attention. It may be due to a dusty occupation, or to 
eyestrain from excessive reading or working in a bad 
light, or to defective sight, or to an inflammation of the 
membrane of the lid. A physician should be consulted, 
as this condition may lead to serious inflammation. 






THE EYE 87 

Red eyes. The eyeball is covered and the lids are 
lined with mucous membrane like that of the nose and 
throat. This membrane, except the part that covers the 
front of the eyeball, contains many blood vessels. Any 
irritation causes congestion and redness. This condition 
is called conjunctivitis. It may be due to colds, to chronic 
catarrh, or to any of the causes mentioned under " Water- 
ing of the eyes." The surfaces are often roughened, and 
there is a feeling of " something in the eyes." If it were 
certain that red eyes indicated only ordinary conjunctivitis, 
it would be sufficient to recommend a simple eye lotion ; 
but, unfortunately, diseases which often destroy the sight 
begin in the same way. Therefore, unless one is reason- 
ably certain of the cause of inflamed eyes, it is wise to 
take steps to find out. 

Cinder in the eye. The most common form of injury 
to the eye is caused by the lodging of cinders or other 
solid particles on the eyeball or under the lid. In most 
cases the tears will remove the offending body quickly 
if nothing is done to hinder. The natural tendency is to 
clap the hand to the eye and to press upon the lid. This 
is precisely what should not be done, as the pressure 
forces the cinder into the soft tissue, where the tears are 
powerless to effect a removal. No matter how sudden or 
how painful the injury from this cause, do not touch the 
eye. Allow the tears to flow unobstructed, and in a large 
majority of cases the trouble will soon be at an end. If, 
however, the cinder becomes lodged, as sometimes occurs, 
it may be easily located and taken out by any careful 
person. It may be removed by using a piece of clean 



88 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

cloth rolled into a point and moistened, or with absorbent 
cotton twisted around the end of a match or a toothpick. 
The cinder will usually be found adhering to the lining 
of the upper lid. 

Black eye. The eyeball is well protected from injury 
by blows because it rests on a cushion of fat in a bony 
socket. A comparatively slight injury, however, causes 
the blood to settle in the surrounding loose tissue, pro- 
ducing what is ordinarily termed a " black eye." No 
harm is likely to result from this, but as it is a temporary 
disfigurement, steps ought to be taken at once to reduce 
the swelling and to check and remove the discoloration.. 
At first cold compresses should be applied, to keep the 
blood away from the eye as much as possible ; later, hot 
compresses, to hasten the absorption. After this the 
discolored part may be painted flesh color. 

Some things which are bad for the eyes. No matter 
how good your eyes are, there are some things that must 
be avoided. Among these are fine print, shiny paper, 
weak light, and unsteady light. A weak light is that 
between sunset and dark or that at too great a distance 
from an artificial light. An unsteady light is one that 
flickers ; it tires the eyes very quickly. The effect of 
reading in a moving train or trolley is similar. Do not 
read too long at any time without looking up. Momen- 
tarily looking at a distant object will afford great relief. 
When reading or studying, do not face the light. Sit so 
that the light will come over the left shoulder. Do not 
read while lying down ; it is almost impossible in that 
position to hold the page at the right distance, at the 



THE EYE 89 

right angle, and, at the same time, in a proper light. It 
puts an intense strain on the muscles of the eyes and is 
especially bad for a person who is already tired or who is 
recovering from sickness. 

The eyes and the general health. Just as trouble with 
the eyes may, and often does, produce other effects, such 
as indigestion and headache, so conditions of general 
health may affect the eyes. It is not uncommon to find 
that a restoration to health has also restored vision that 
was impaired. Therefore it is necessary for one who 
would preserve good vision through life to observe the 
laws of general health as well as those pertaining to 
the eye itself. 

QUESTIONS 

1. Defective vision is more common than formerly. Give 
some of the reasons for this. 

2. What is accommodation ? 

3. Why is it necessary to consult an oculist early if there 
is any trouble with the eyes ? 

4. What are the most common signs of defective vision ? 

5. How is indistinct vision shown ? 

6. Why do most middle-aged and old people require glasses 
for reading ? 

7. What is meant by short sight"? How may it be caused? 
How may it be relieved ? 

8. Explain the location and use of the tear glands and 
tear ducts. 

9. How may excessive watering of the eyes be caused ? 
When does this require attention? 



9 o 



MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 



10. What is conjunctivitis? How may it be caused? Why 
should it not be disregarded ? 

11. What is nature's way of removing a cinder from the 
eye? 

12. What harm is done by pressing on the lid with the 
hand ? 

13. Give directions for removing a cinder if it becomes 
lodged. 

14. What is the cause of a black eye? How should it be 
treated ? 

15. Name four things which are bad for the eyes. 

1 6. What is meant by weak light and unsteady light ? 

17. How ought one to sit when reading? 

18. Why is it harmful to read while lying down ? 

19. What effect upon impaired vision does a restoration to 
health often have ? 



CHAPTER XVII 

THE EAR 

Parts of the ear. The ear consists of three parts : the 
outer ear, the middle ear, and the inner ear. The outer 
ear has two parts, called the auricle and the auditory canal. 
The auricle is the part which is ordinarily called the ear. 
In some animals, as the horse, it is movable and can be 
directed forward or backward to catch sound, but in human 
beings even its total loss would not affect the hearing 
appreciably. 

Freezing. Owing to their thinness, large surface, and 
exposed position, the auricles are more likely to freeze 
than any other part of the body. If freezing should occur, 
the frost may be taken out by rubbing the ears with snow 
or by bathing them with cold water. For severe chilling 
and frost-bite see Chapter XXI, page 135. 

Washing. The auricles, on account of their irregular 
shape, are especially likely to collect dust and dirt. They 
should be washed daily, care being taken to reach every 
part. If any spot is neglected, dirt accumulates rapidly 
until it becomes conspicuous and unsightly. 

The auditory canal. This canal is narrow and curved 
and is a little more than an inch deep. It is closed at 
the bottom by a partition called the drumhead. This 
partition divides the outer ear from the middle ear. The 

91 



92 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

outer two thirds of the canal is lined with hairs. At the 
base of each hair is a gland which secretes a yellowish, 
sticky oil. This oil moistens the hairs and enables them 
to catch all of the dust and dirt which naturally enter 
the ear. Gradually this oil hardens into little pieces of 
wax, which work out of the ear, carrying the dirt which 
has been collected. This is how the canal is kept clean. 
If it were not for this, it would in time become filled 
with dust and dirt. 

Wax. Healthy ears contain only enough wax to keep 
the hairs sticky, and a person should not be conscious 
that any wax is coming out. Digging in the ear with the 
finger, or with anything else, to remove the wax, is a 
bad practice and can result in nothing but harm. The 
thin lining is very tender and easily injured, and digging 
will only push the wax back and cause it to collect. 
Sometimes the wax collects in such quantity as to cause 
temporary deafness. In such a case it can be removed by 
a physician, easily and without danger, by syringing with 
warm water. There is nothing that can be, done at home. 
The familiar practice of dropping in oil is harmful, as it 
causes the wax to expand, which only increases the trouble. 
After being syringed, the ear should be dried as well as 
possible and a piece of cotton put in for a day or two, 
but care should be taken that the cotton is finally removed. 

Wearing cotton. In general the practice of wearing 
cotton should be discouraged, as it interferes with the 
natural escape of wax from the ear and, if forgotten, 
may work into the ear and become the cause of an 
excessive and troublesome wax collection. 



THE EAR 93 

Foreign substances. A solid particle as large as a 
small pea may get into the ear by accident and cause 
no trouble, even though it remains for many years. Such 
particles do not cause the wax to collect, because they 
finally lodge in the deeper part of the canal beyond the 
hairs and wax. 

Insects sometimes crawl into the auditory canal and 
refuse to come out. They are extremely annoying, but 
cannot be the source of any harm except that which is 
self-inflicted in the frantic efforts which may be made to 
remove them. Insects do not often get into the ear, but 
if one should, do not get excited. The insect cannot get 
beyond the partition previously mentioned, and will do 
no harm even though it is never removed. A little warm 
water poured into the ear will usually bring it to the sur- 
face. If this is not sufficient, it can easily be syringed out. 

Drumhead. The drumhead is a thin, tense membrane, 
already mentioned as a partition between the outer ear 
and the middle ear. Its purpose is largely to keep dirt 
out of the delicate middle ear. Hearing does not depend 
upon it, but an injury to it will often destroy the hear- 
ing, as other parts are usually injured at the same time. 
It may be torn or penetrated by anything thrust into the 
ear, as, for example, by a hairpin or a toothpick. It may 
be burst by a violent fit of coughing or by a blow on the 
side or back of the head. It may be destroyed by eruptive 
diseases like measles, scarlet fever, and smallpox. 

In case of its destruction by disease the hearing is not 
necessarily destroyed, and can be greatly assisted by in- 
serting a piece of absorbent cotton loosely into the deeper 



94 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

part of the auditory canal. This cotton should be removed 
at night and renewed in the morning. Patented "artificial 
ear drums " are often advertised, but they are not so good, 
nor are they so hygienic, as the cotton. 

The middle ear. The middle ear, or drum, is the seat 
of two thirds of all ear troubles. It is lined with soft, 
moist, mucous membrane, like that of the nose and throat, 
and is connected with the throat by the Eustachian tube. 
This tube allows air to enter the drum and also allows 
moisture to flow out. The air entering the drum makes 
the pressure on the inside of the drumhead the same as 
that on the outside. Swallowing and yawning cause the 
tube to open. Swallowing with the nose closed withdraws 
the air. (Try it. Hold the nose, and swallow.) 

Inflammation of the middle ear. In an ordinary cold 
in the head the lining of the throat and nose becomes 
red and swollen and discharges mucus freely ; some- 
times the swelling is sufficient to close the nose entirely. 
The same thing may happen to the lining of the middle 
ear and its Eustachian tube, and from the same cause, 
a cold. A cold may settle in one ear or in both ears 
and may produce two very unpleasant results, although 
not necessarily both at the same time. One of them is 
temporarily impaired hearing ; the other is earache. Both 
are primarily due to the closing of the Eustachian tubes. 
The hearing is interfered with because the air cannot 
pass into the middle ear and therefore cannot make the 
pressure on the inside of the drumhead the same as that 
on the outside. The earache is due to the pressure of 
the mucus which cannot escape, and which gathers until 



THE EAR 95 

it fills the middle ear. This is what is ordinarily known 
as a " gathering in the ear." When the pressure becomes 
sufficient a tiny hole is burst in the drumhead, there is 
a discharge of mucus through the auditory canal, the 
pressure is relieved, and the earache ceases. After a time, 
if everything progresses favorably, the inflammation passes 
away, the Eustachian tubes open, and the hearing becomes 
normal. Finally, the hole in the drumhead heals, that is, 
becomes filled with scar tissue. 

Remedies for earache. The best home remedy for ear- 
ache is the hot-water bottle, but a fair substitute is a hot 
brick or a hot flatiron wrapped in flannel, or a hot bag 
of salt. Remain quiet. Eat food that requires little chew- 
ing, as the large muscles which work the jaws are near 
the ear. If this does not give relief, call a physician. 

Do not use sweet oil, laudanum, or patent eardrops. 
Oil becomes rancid and vile-smelling ; laudanum is danger- 
ous and should be used only on the advice of a physician ; 
and all patent medicine should be avoided. No one can 
tell what harm it may do. Credit is often given to a 
remedy that has no value whatever, simply because it 
happened to be the one last used before relief came 
through some natural means. 

Deafness. Deafness is sometimes inherited. In such 
cases it may be due to a malformation of some part of 
the auditory apparatus. More often it is caused by the 
Eustachian tubes becoming closed by catarrh, or eruptive 
diseases, such as scarlet fever and measles. It may also 
be caused by adenoid growths and colds. For com- 
plete loss of hearing there is no cure. No impairment 



96 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

of hearing will result from most cases of eruptive dis- 
eases if judicious preventive measures are used by the 
physician in charge. Relief from partial loss of hearing, 
due to adenoid growths, may be obtained by a simple 
operation. Partial deafness from colds and catarrh may 
be prevented or relieved by care on the part of the indi- 
vidual, together with proper medical attendance. 

Children with impaired hearing do not develop mentally 
as fast as those with normal hearing. It is impossible 
that this should be otherwise, since they are deprived of 
one of their most important avenues of obtaining knowl- 
edge. This condition is mistaken for mental deficiency 
by those who fail to recognize the real cause. Rapid 
mental development due to the restoration of hearing has 
many times been observed in children after the removal 
of adenoid growths. Teachers should give special atten- 
tion to backward pupils, with a view to discovering, if 
possible, the cause of their lack of development. 

QUESTIONS 

1. Describe the ear. 

2. Which part is most likely to freeze ? How may the frost 
be removed ? 

3. Why is it necessary to be particular in washing the ears ? 

4. What is the ear drum ? the drumhead ? 

5. Describe the auditory canal. How is it kept clean ? 

6. Why is it a bad practice to try to remove the wax by 
digging in the ear? 

7. What is the right way to remove the wax if there is an 
excessive amount ? 



THE EAR 97 

8. Why is dropping in oil harmful ? 

9. Why should the practice of wearing cotton in the ear 
be discouraged ? 

10. Why do solid particles which sometimes get into the 
ear do no harm ? 

11. Why should no alarm be caused if an insect should 
crawl into the ear ? How may it be removed ? 

12. What is the principal office of the drumhead ? Why will 
an injury to it often destroy the hearing ? 

13. How may the drumhead be penetrated, ruptured, or 
destroyed ? 

14. How may the hearing often be greatly assisted where 
the drumhead has been destroyed ? 

15. Describe the middle ear. 

16. What are the Eustachian tubes ? What is their office ? 

17. What is a " gathering in the ear " ? How is it caused ? 

18. What is the cause of deafness ? of earache ? 

19. How does nature effect relief ? Describe what follows. 

20. Outline a home treatment for earache. 

21. What remedies should be avoided ? Why? 

22. Why is credit often given to a remedy which has no 
value ? 

23. In what ways may impaired hearing be caused ? How 
may relief sometimes be obtained ? 

24. Why do children with impaired hearing not develop as 
rapidly as those with normal hearing ? 

25. For what is this kind of slow development sometimes 
mistaken ? 

26. Why does the removal of adenoid growths often result 
in improved mental development ? 



CHAPTER XVIII 
TOBACCO AND HARMFUL DRUGS 

Tobacco. Objections to its use. In spite of the very 
common use of tobacco there do not seem to be any good 
arguments in its favor, while against its use there are 
many. It contains a very poisonous substance, nicotine, 
which is absorbed into the system of those who chew or 
smoke it. Some persons are much more susceptible to 
nicotine poisoning than others, and some of the worst 
effects are sometimes produced upon those who use tobacco 
only moderately. The parts of the body which are most 
Commonly affected are the stomach, the eyes, the heart, 
the arteries, and the nervous system. 

Injurious effects. The first effect of the use of tobacco 
is felt in the stomach, as nearly every beginner can testify. 
Even those who have become accustomed to its use know 
the limit to which the stomach will allow them to go, and 
the hardiest smoker will usually hesitate about attempting 
a cigar just before eating. 

The optic nerve, which leads from the brain to the 
eye, and upon which sight depends, is sometimes so sen- 
sitive to tobacco poisoning that partial blindness is caused. 
If the use of tobacco is stopped, the sight returns. 

Excessive use brings on a nervous condition of the 
heart, known as tobacco heart. Even moderate use impairs 

98 



TOBACCO AND HARMFUL DRUGS 99 

the action of the heart to such a degree as to compel all 
athletes to give it up while training for any important contest. 
The effect is usually noticeable in the breathing ; smokers 
are short-winded. But the seat of the trouble is the heart, 
which is unable to pump blood to the lungs fast enough 
for proper oxidation during a period of unusual exertion. 
Even more serious than the effect upon the heart is 
that upon the arteries. These slender tubes, which carry 
blood from the heart to all parts of the body, have elastic, 
muscular walls. They expand as they receive the blood 
at every beat of the heart. This expansion can be plainly 
felt even as far away from the heart as the wrist, where 
it is known as the pulse. Between the beats the arteries 
contract, smoothly and steadily forcing the blood along 
into the capillaries and preparing themselves for the blood 
which will come at the next heart impulse. This flexi- 
bility of the arteries is of the highest importance to the 
circulation of the blood and hence to the normal work- 
ing of the other organs, for they all depend upon the 
blood. As old age comes on, the walls of the arteries 
gradually lose their elasticity and become hardened, and 
there is a general slowing down of the other organs in 
consequence. Hardening of the arteries is often induced 
in younger persons by improper living, which results 
in a premature old age. The two most common causes 
are tobacco and alcohol. So sensitive are the arteries 
to these two drugs that there is often a measurable 
change in the blood pressure after one cigar or a single 
drink. Premature old age means but one thing, an early 
death, death at an age when one ought to be at his best. 



100 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

Tobacco also has its effect upon the general nervous 
system. If a person is naturally phlegmatic, this effect 
may not be perceptible, but upon one who is naturally 
nervous it is marked and is never anything but harmful. 

Effect upon the young. Tobacco has a worse effect 
upon young persons than upon those who are more 
mature. It diminishes the appetite for food, hurts the 
digestion, and thus hinders the growth of the body and 
of the brain. It dulls the senses, making the user less 
alert. Employers agree that boys who smoke are less 
efficient than others ; many will not hire them if the 
fact that they smoke is known. The boy who learns 
to smoke is burdening himself with a habit that will 
surely prevent him from attaining his greatest measure 
of success. 

Opium. Opium is a reddish-brown, sticky, gumlike 
substance. It is obtained from the milky juice of the un- 
ripe heads of a poppy growing principally in western Asia. 
It has a bitter taste and a peculiar odor. The laws gov- 
erning its importation into the United States, and its sale, 
are very strict. It can be sold for medicinal purposes 
only. Complete records must be kept of all persons to 
whom it is sold. 

Effects upon the system. Properly used, opium is one 
of the most valuable drugs known to medical science. It 
acts directly upon the brain, relieving pain and producing 
sleep. The after-effects are headache, nausea, constipa- 
tion, languor, and loss of appetite. 

The opium habit. Opium should be given only by a 
physician or by a trained nurse, and its effects must be 



TOBACCO AND HARMFUL DRUGS IOI 

most carefully watched, as some patients are more suscep- 
tible to its narcotic effects than others, and a slight over- 
dose may produce death. A second dose should be given 
only in case of actual necessity. The opium habit is 
easily acquired and very difficult to leave off. It is one 
of the most baneful of all the habits known to the human 
race ; therefore too much care cannot be exercised in its 
avoidance. It causes physical, mental, and moral degen- 
eracy ; and if the end does not come from an overdose, 
death finally ensues from slow starvation. 

The principal forms of opium and preparations con- 
taining it are morphine, codeine, laudanum, heroin, and 
paregoric. In action and in effect they are all similar 
to opium, and the laws regulating their importation and 
sale are the same. 

Cocaine. This drug is obtained from the leaves of a 
shrub growing in South America. If applied to the skin, 
it has no effect ; but if injected into any part of the body, 
it acts as a local anaesthetic, preventing pain by paralyz- 
ing the nerves. It is used in minor surgical operations 
upon the eye and also in dentistry. The laws governing 
its sale are very strict. 

The cocaine habit. If applied to the lining of the 
nose, mouth, or throat, cocaine stimulates the brain and 
produces a feeling of exhilaration. Repeated use in this 
manner induces the cocaine habit, which is at least equal 
to the opium habit in its harmful effects. Once the habit 
is fixed, the craving for the drug is so intense that the 
victim will do anything, even to committing crime, to 
obtain it. The remedy is to make it impossible for the 



102 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

victim to obtain the drug. A long time may be required 
to overcome the habit. In some instances persons have 
returned to the use of the drug at the first opportunity 
after having been deprived of it for an entire year. The 
number of those addicted to its use has greatly decreased 
since the enactment of stringent laws limiting its sale. 

The results of the cocaine habit are disturbances of the 
digestion ; loss of flesh, of strength, and of ambition ; 
mental delusions ; and, finally, insanity. 



QUESTIONS 

1. What parts of the body are most commonly affected 
by tobacco ? 

2. How does tobacco affect the stomach ? 

3. What is the proof that partial blindness is sometimes 
caused by tobacco? 

4. Why is it necessary for athletes in training to give up 
tobacco ? 

5. What is meant by hardening of the arteries ? Of what 
age is it characteristic ? 

6. How may hardening of the arteries be caused in younger 
persons ? 

7. What is the effect of tobacco upon the nervous system ? 

8. Why is it especially important that young persons should 
not use tobacco ? 

9. Describe opium. How is it obtained ? 

10. What restrictions are placed upon its sale in the United 
States ? 

11. What are the effects of opium upon the human system ? 



TOBACCO AND HARMFUL DRUGS 103 

12. Why should opium be given only by a physician or by 
a trained nurse ? Why should it be given only in case of 
actual necessity ? 

13. What are the effects of the opium habit ? 

14. What are the principal forms of opium ? 

15. What is the source of cocaine ? 

16. How does it act if injected into any part of the body ? 
For what is it used ? 

17. What are the effects if applied to the lining of the nose, 
mouth, or throat ? 

18. How is the cocaine habit acquired ? 

19. How does cocaine compare with opium in harmful effects ? 

20. How can the cocaine habit be overcome ? 

21. What has caused a decrease in the number of those 
addicted to the use of cocaine ? 

22. What are the final results of the cocaine habit ? 



CHAPTER XIX 

ALCOHOL AND PATENT MEDICINES 

Alcohol. The effects of alcohol upon the human sys- 
tem have been investigated many times, and much has 
been published concerning these investigations, so 
much, in fact, that it will be impossible here to do more 
than give a summary of the findings that are beyond 
controversy. It is enough to know the facts. 

Alcohol shortens life. Investigations carried on in 
England have proved that the death rate of drinkers is 
much greater than that of the total population. Records 
of life-insurance companies of England, Scotland, and 
the United States show that the death rate of those who 
drink moderately is from 40 to 50 per cent higher than 
of those who do not drink at all. This means a reduction 
of about four years in the average lifetime of the moderate 
drinker. Those who are known to be hard drinkers are 
such bad " risks " that they cannot get insured at all. 

It causes many diseases. All the internal organs may 
suffer injury from alcohol. Abundant proof of this has 
been furnished by examination of these organs after 
death. The stomach, liver, kidneys, heart, and arteries 
have each a special disease due to the use of alcohol. 
These diseases are described in every handbook of 
practical medicine. 

104 



ALCOHOL AND PATENT MEDICINES 105 

// diminishes the power to resist infection. In pro- 
tecting the body from infectious diseases the white cor- 
puscles of the blood are greatly assisted by the secretions 
of certain internal organs, the principal of which are 
the thyroid glands and the adrenals. Alcohol causes a 
degeneration of these organs. Their secretions diminish, 
and the body loses much of its resisting power. Those 
who drink large quantities of alcohol are the most likely 
to contract contagious diseases and the least likely to 
recover from them, tuberculosis and pneumonia being 
especially fatal. 

It causes intoxication. The action of alcohol upon 
the system is similar to that of ether, the principal dif- 
ference being that alcohol acts more slowly. The effect 
of each is to paralyze the nerves. As alcohol is self- 
administered, a state of complete unconsciousness is 
rarely reached. 

Owing to this paralyzing effect the following results 
may be observed. Intoxicated persons see poorly ; some- 
times they see double. They are unable to speak plainly. 
Walking is difficult, sometimes impossible. The hands 
are clumsy. The stomach is affected, causing vomiting. 
The memory is poor, and the thoughts are confused. 
Judgment and reason are gone. There is a temporary 
condition of insanity. After intoxication there is a gen- 
eral depression of the whole nervous system, making a 
person morose and disagreeable. 

Frequent intoxication results in a disease of the 
nervous system called delirium tremens. The victim 
becomes raving mad and must be restrained. In his 



106 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

imagination he often sees himself surrounded by or 
pursued by loathsome beasts. If he does not give up 
drinking, the result is a most agonizing death. 

It causes insanity and crime. Intoxication, insanity, 
and crime are closely associated. Intoxication is tem- 
porary insanity. Repeated intoxication produces changes 
in the brain which result in permanent insanity. The 
truth of this is amply attested by the large number of 
inmates of insane asylums, who, previous to their insanity, 
were confirmed alcoholics. In some asylums, where in- 
vestigations have been -made, the number of such inmates 
has been found to be from 40 to 60 per cent. It is 
difficult to determine just how much crime is due to 
alcohol, but there is authority for the statement that 
more than half of the crimes are committed by persons 
who are more or less under its influence. 

Effect upon heredity. The study of heredity as applied 
to alcoholism has led to some startling discoveries. The 
effects of intemperance are not confined to the indi- 
vidual, but are handed down to his descendants as an 
evil legacy. Idiots, epileptics, beggars, paupers, drunk- 
ards, and criminals occur with an alarming frequency 
among the descendants of confirmed alcoholics, and in 
extreme cases hundreds of such unfortunates have been 
found in tracing a single genealogy. 

Patent medicines. Most patent medicines are worth- 
less. Those who buy them get nothing for their money, 
or worse than nothing, because many of them contain 
habit-forming drugs. No other class of swindles is so 
effective in deceiving and robbing the poor. Their 



ALCOHOL AND PATENT MEDICINES 107 

promoters circulate elaborate advertisements, with lists of 
symptoms intended to work upon the imagination and 
to make people believe they are the victims of diseases 
which they do not have. They also arouse false hopes 
in those who are really sick by claiming to cure diseases 
which are baffling to the most expert physicians. To 
appreciate the absurdity of such claims one has only 
to observe that they offer easy cures for cancer, a 
disease for which a cure has been sought in vain by 
scientists of the highest training, with every means at 
their disposal that money could afford. 

Dangerous powders. Of all the quack medicines, head- 
ache powders are the most widely used. They are also 
the most dangerous, both in their immediate effects and 
in those that follow. Some patent remedies are harm- 
less fakes, but headache cures are not, for to acquire 
a ready sale they must stop the pain. To accomplish 
this with any degree of certainty a powerful drug is 
needed. This drug is usually acetanilide, which relieves 
pain temporarily by depressing the heart. Often the 
pain returns when the effect of the drug wears off, 
furnishing the incentive for another dose. Powder after 
powder may thus be taken, until the drug seems to be 
a necessity, while the condition of its victim becomes 
gradually worse. The habit formed in this way is very 
difficult to break and frequently ends in permanent injury 
to the health, if not in death. 

Repeated doses of acetanilide weaken the heart. An 
overdose has many times proved fatal, and death has 
sometimes resulted from the regular patent-medicine 



108 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE ' 

dose. It should be used only with the consent of a 
physician who understands its true nature. 

Other remedies to be avoided. Some of the other 
highly advertised remedies to be avoided are digestive 
tablets, cough sirups, and hair restorers ; also cures for 
catarrh, consumption, deafness, eye troubles (without 
glasses), obesity, kidney diseases, tumors, and cancer. 
The ailments and diseases referred to here are too 
serious to be trifled with. They offer difficulties enough 
to the trained and experienced physician, and yield only 
to the most scientific treatment. The doctor at least 
understands the symptoms of the disease he is treating 
and the nature of his remedies. Those who use patent 
medicines do not understand either of these. They are 
taking an unknown remedy for an unknown disease. 

QUESTIONS 

1. What is the evidence that alcohol shortens life ? 

2. What internal organs are subject to special diseases caused 
by alcohol ? 

3. Explain how alcohol diminishes the power to resist disease. 

4. What is the nature of intoxication ? 

5. What are the immediate effects of intoxication ? the 
after-effects ? 

6. What disease is caused by frequent intoxication ? What 
is the nature of this disease ? 

7. What is the evidence that alcoholism causes insanity? 
that it causes crime ? 

8. What classes of unfortunate persons occur with frequency 
among the descendants of confirmed users of alcohol ? 



ALCOHOL AND PATENT MEDICINES 109 

9. Why are most patent medicines worse than useless ? 

10. What class of people are most often deceived by them ? 
Why? 

11. By what methods do the promoters of patent remedies 
get customers ? 

12. What illustrates the absurdity of the claims of those who 
have patent medicines to sell ? 

13. What powerful drug do most headache powders contain? 
How does it act ? What results sometimes follow its use ? 

14. Give a list of highly advertised remedies to be avoided. 

15. Why should they be avoided ? 



CHAPTER XX 

BACTERIA 

Importance of bacteria. Bacteria are minute living 
organisms, so small that they cannot be seen by the 
unaided human eye. They occur in dust, dirt, soil, air, 
and water ; on our hands, clothing, and food ; in our 
mouths and intestines, in fact, nearly everywhere. 
They are the cause of decay, and play an important part 
in various other natural phenomena. They also cause 
many diseases and hinder the healing of wounds. 

Conditions under which they thrive. Bacteria thrive and 
multiply with almost incredible rapidity wherever there 
is moisture, food, and a suitable temperature. Whenever 
the food or moisture fails, or the temperature becomes 
unsuitable, their growth is stopped. To tide over such a 
period of unfavorable conditions, and to preserve some of 
the bacteria, spores are formed. The spore is a resting stage 
in which the living matter may remain dormant for many 
years even under extremely adverse conditions. 

Effects of adverse conditions. Bacteria differ greatly 
as to the effect of dryness, but most kinds are killed 
by exposure to drying for a few hours or a few days at 
most. Spores are more resistant. Some will germinate 
after remaining dry for ten years. Direct sunlight kills 
bacteria, sometimes almost instantly. Diffuse daylight 

no 



BACTERIA 1 1 1 

and even the electric light hinders them. Spores are 
especially sensitive to light. 

Most disease-producing bacteria thrive best at about 
the temperature of the human body, and all bacteria do 
best within a limited range of temperatures ; but their 
ability to adapt themselves to a wide range of heat and 
cold is remarkable. Some kinds can grow and multiply 
at a few degrees above freezing, while others can do the 
same not far below the boiling point of water. As a rule, 
all the bacteria in water are killed if it is brought to the 
boiling point. This is not true of spores, for some of 
them can stand boiling for several hours. On the other 
hand, bacteria are more resistant to cold than to heat. 
Most bacteria are killed if they are in water that freezes 
naturally; but this is not true of all of them, and they 
can be subjected to dry cold far below the freezing point 
for days without impairing their vitality. 

As to the oxygen requirements of bacteria, there is a 
wide divergence. Some kinds require free oxygen, while 
others live and grow only where it is almost entirel) 
absent. 

Antiseptics and disinfectants. Many kinds of chemical 
substances are used to check the action of bacteria or 
to destroy them. They are called antiseptics and disin- 
fectants. They differ principally in their strength and 
in the uses to which they are put. Antiseptics are milder 
in their action and are applied to the surfaces of the 
body to check the action of the bacteria. Disinfectants 
are stronger and are used where it is desired to destroy 
the bacteria, as in sick-room utensils. 



112 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

Examples of antiseptics are alcohol, tincture of iodine, 
hydrogen peroxide, and weak solutions of sylpho-nathol 
and of carbolic acid. The best of these for home use is 
tincture of iodine. It can be applied with safety to cuts, 
scratches, and ordinary simple wounds. A small vial of 
it should be in every household, ready for immediate 
use. It can be applied with a small brush or, better, 
with a piece of absorbent cotton twisted around the end 
of a toothpick or a match. Hydrogen peroxide does not 
keep well after it is opened, and sylpho-nathol and 
carbolic acid require too much skill in their use. 

Examples of disinfectants are chloride of lime, form- 
aldehyde, corrosive sublimate, sulphur dioxide, and 
stronger solutions of sylpho-nathol and carbolic acid. 
(For the uses of disinfectants see Chapter XXI, p. 140.) 

Both antiseptics and disinfectants are poisonous and 
should never be taken internally. 

Ptomaines and toxins. Many bacteria, in the course 
of their growth, give rise to substances that are poison- 
ous. The poisons produced in meat, fish, cheese, etc. 
by the action of the bacteria of decay are called 
ptomaines. Cooking such partly decayed food kills the 
bacteria but does not remove the poisons already formed. 
Poisons produced in the living body by the bacteria of 
disease are called toxins. These bacterial toxins are far 
more deadly in their effect than any other known poisons. 

Antitoxins and vaccines. Some persons do not con- 
tract a disease, no matter how much they are exposed 
to it ; this is called natural immunity. Others acquire 
immunity by having the disease ; they seem to develop 



BACTERIA 113 

within themselves a power to resist any further action 
of the bacteria or of their toxins. Investigators have dis- 
covered harmless methods of producing a similar kind of 
immunity in those who have not had the disease. This 
is done by introducing into the body certain classes of 
substances which are able to resist the toxins or which 
cause the body to develop its resisting power. These 
substances are called antitoxins and vaccines. An anti- 
toxin is the blood serum (fluid remaining after clotting 
of blood) drawn from immunized animals. It contains 
antibodies which are able to neutralize toxins. Vaccines, 
unlike antitoxins, do not contain antibodies, but stimulate 
the growth of antibodies in the system into which the 
vaccines are introduced. 

QUESTIONS 

1. What are bacteria ? 

2. Where do they occur ? 

3. In what ways are they useful ? 

4. In what ways are they harmful ? 

5. Under what conditions do they thrive best ? 

6. What are spores ? When are spores formed ? 

7. What is the effect of dryness upon bacteria? upon spores? 

8. What is the effect of sunlight upon bacteria? upon spores? 

9. What is the effect of high temperatures upon bacteria ? 
upon spores ? 

10. What is the effect of low temperatures upon bacteria ? 

11. How do bacteria differ as to their oxygen requirements ? 

12. What are antiseptics ? disinfectants ? 



114 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

13. Give examples of antiseptics. Which of these is best for 
home use ? 

14. Give examples of disinfectants. 

15. What precaution is necessary in regard to both antiseptics 
and disinfectants ? 

16. What are ptomaines ? How are they produced ? 

17. What are toxins ? How are they produced ? 

18. What is meant by natural immunity ? 

19. How may artificial immunity be produced ? 

20. What are antitoxins ? 

21. How do vaccines differ from antitoxins? 



CHAPTER XXI 
EMERGENCIES 1 

Shock. Shock is a very common condition resulting 
from accidents, and its detection and treatment are very 
important. It is a depression, more or less profound, of 
the nervous system. A person who has sustained a rail- 
way or machinery accident, or a bad burn or other 
injury, or has been suffocated or poisoned, is liable to 
suffer from shock. 

The onset of the symptoms is likely to be unnoticed 
unless looked for. There is either a stupid condition, in 
which the patient shows no interest in what is taking 
place about him, or a partial (in some cases complete) 
unconsciousness. He lies breathing feebly, with face pale, 
pinched, and anxious, eyelids drooping, eyes dull, and 
pupils dilated ; the pulse is feeble, usually rapid, and 
sometimes absent at the wrist ; the skin is cold, and there 
may be shivering ; sometimes the mind wanders. These 
symptoms may follow a slight injury like a crushed finger; 
and again, they may be absent, or only present in a slight 
degree, after the severest accident. The amount of shock 
depends not so much upon the nature of the accident as 
upon the temperament of the individual. In most cases 

1 From " Handbook of the Society for Instruction in First Aid to 
the Injured" (with slight alterations). 

"5 



Ii6 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

reaction will take place in a few hours ; in others no reac- 
tion takes place, and the person dies from heart failure. 

Treatment. A great deal can be done to relieve a per- 
son suffering from shock. If there is severe bleeding, it 
must be stopped, and any wound or fracture may receive 
a quick dressing ; but no attempt to do more than this 
to the injury should be made until after attending to the 
shock. In shock from suffocation or poisoning, treatment 
for the shock may be given at the same time with the 
treatment for the primary condition. 

Place the patient in a horizontal position, the head 
slightly lowered ; give a few swallows of cold water and 
repeat the dose occasionally, but do not allow more than 
one glass if there is severe bleeding. 

Wring out cloths from hot water and lay them on the 
bared chest and abdomen ; then cover the patient with a 
blanket to keep in the heat. Place hot-water bottles, hot 
bricks, or anything hot along both sides of the body and 
legs, inside the thighs, and under the armpits. 

In using hot-water bottles or hot bricks, care must 
be taken not to burn the patient. This danger may be 
obviated by wrapping the bottle or brick in cloth before 
applying it, or by inserting it in a flannel bag. 

Rub the body and limbs vigorously with the hand or 
with hot, dry cloths. To warm and stimulate the patient 
in every way is the object of the treatment. 

Contusions. The simplest injury is the ordinary con- 
tusion, or bruise, caused by a fall or a blow. This consists 
of the rupture of small blood vessels under the unbroken 
skin, causing the familiar black-and-blue marks. 



EMERGENCIES 117 

Treatment. Lay over the bruise a cloth saturated with 
hot water, or with half water and half alcohol or any of 
the household remedies that contain alcohol. Hot appli- 
cations diminish pain and hasten absorption of the blood. 
Often no treatment at all is needed. 

Sprains. A sprain is the result of violent twisting, 
stretching, or partial tearing of the ligaments about a 
joint ; at the same time, especially in sprains of the ankle, 
there is often a fracture of the ends of the bones. There 
is no apparent deformity, like that of a dislocation or 
fracture, until swelling takes place. Severe pain, greatly 
increased by movements of the joint, accompanies this 
injury. 

Treatment. If possible, place the injured joint in water 
as hot as can be borne, and keep the water hot for an 
hour or longer by adding hot water as fast as it cools ; 
or an ice bag may be applied and kept on for several 
hours. Then apply cotton batting over the joint, and 
bandage with moderate firmness in such a manner as to 
limit movement of the joint. The injured joint should 
be maintained in a somewhat elevated position. After 
a day or two of rest, moderate use of the joint will 
prevent the stiffness that follows too long use of splints. 

Dislocations. If one bone is displaced from another 
at a joint, the injury is called a dislocation. The liga- 
ments that hold the joint in place have been torn, and 
there is pain, deformity, and stiffness. Dislocations can- 
not always be distinguished from fractures near the joint ; 
for this and other reasons it is inexpedient for the 
unskilled to touch a supposed dislocation unless it is 



118 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

absolutely necessary to do so, as in cases where it is 
impossible to obtain a physician. 

Treatment. The best way to treat the majority of 
dislocations is to make the sufferer as comfortable as 
possible, lay a wet cloth over the affected joint, and wait 
for skilled aid. 

Fractures. A fracture is a broken bone. Fractures 
are either simple or compound. In a simple fracture there 
is no wound leading down to the break. When there is 
such a wound, the fracture is called compound. In com- 
pound fractures the ends of the broken bone may be 
driven through the skin, as by a fall, or the skin may be 
broken by a blow or by a bullet. A compound fracture 
is much more serious and dangerous than a simple 
fracture, because of the liability of infection which in a 
simple fracture is prevented by the unbroken skin. 

Treatment. If a fractured limb is suspected, let the 
patient lie down in as comfortable a position as possible. 
Then very gently and slowly remove enough clothing to 
expose the injured part, cutting or ripping with knife or 
scissors if necessary. If the limb is found very visibly 
deformed, try to straighten it by grasping the limb below 
the deformity and pulling gently and steadily in a straight 
line with the limb. Support the limb in its corrected 
position, lay a cloth wet with cold water over the injured 
part, and wait for the arrival of skilled assistance. There 
is no need for hurry in setting a fracture. 

Bandaging. In hospitals and in the doctor's office the 
roller bandage is the kind most frequently used, but in an 
emergency it is seldom at hand, while a triangular piece 



EMERGENCIES 119 

of cloth can always be obtained. The roller bandage is 
neater and for certain purposes better than the triangular, 
but the latter is equally serviceable for an emergency case, 
and less skill is required in its application. 

The triangular bandage. This bandage is a triangular 
piece of any suitable material, preferably unbleached 
cotton cloth. It is made by cutting a piece of the material 
forty inches square into triangular halves or by folding it 
in the same form without cutting it. The longer border 
is called the lower border ; the others, the side borders. 
The upper corner opposite the lower border is named the 
point ; the two other corners, the ends. For use it may 
be folded either broad or narrow. Spread out the band- 
age, the lower border next you, the point farther away. 
Carry the point to the lower border. Fold it lengthwise 
toward you twice for the broad bandage, three times for 
the narrow. 

The triangular bandage is used for the same purposes 
as the roller bandage : namely, to keep dressings of 
wounds in place, to fix splints, and to protect and support 
any part of the body. 

The roller bandage. A convenient roller bandage is 
made by tearing from a piece of unbleached cotton cloth 
or other similar material a strip three inches wide and four 
yards long, and then rolling this strip into a compact roll. 

If a narrow bandage is required, it is only necessary 
to cut one of these rolls in two with a sharp knife and 
thus obtain a bandage of any width up to three inches. 

Applying the bandage. To apply the bandage, hold 
the roll in one hand and the loose end in the other, and 



120 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

lay the outer side over the part to be bandaged. As long 
as the part is of the same size, carry the bandage round 
and round, but when it is tapering, it will be seen that 
if the bandage lies flat there will be spaces left. To avoid 
these spaces, the thumb of the free hand is placed on the 
lower edge of the bandage, to keep it in place, and the 
roller, held in the other hand, is turned half over. Then 
again proceed around the limb. Repeat this movement 
each time the bandage goes around the limb, and it will 
lie flat. 

The bandage is fastened by pins, by sewing, by a piece 
of adhesive plaster, or by splitting the end a few inches, 
carrying one half around the part to meet the other, and 
tying them together. 

Great care should always be taken not to apply the 
bandage too tightly. If it is too tight, the parts of the 
limb below the bandage will become blue, swollen, and 
cold, and either numb or painful. If the bandage is not 
loosened or removed, gangrene may occur in the parts. 

Drowning. Remove a body at once from the water. 
Do not fear the coroner. 

Persons have been known to recover after prolonged 
submersion and hours of insensibility. Therefore do not 
despair of restoring life even in the most desperate cases, 
and do not give up trying unless death is absolutely 
certain. That the unpracticed observer cannot detect a 
pulse or heart sounds is no proof that life is extinct. 

The treatment must be carried out on the spot, except 
in extremely severe weather, when it is permissible to 
remove the body to a place of shelter if it is near. 



EMERGENCIES 121 

Send immediately for a doctor, blankets, and stimu- 
lants. Quickly open up all clothing about the neck, turn 
the patient on the face, clasp your hands together beneath 
the stomach, and lift as high as possible, letting the head 
hang down so that the water can run out. Hold the body 
in this way for a few seconds, then turn the patient again 
on the back. Wipe out the mouth and back of the throat 
with your finger covered with one or two thicknesses of 
a handkerchief. 

If breathing has not commenced, certain simple means 
may be tried, in order to excite natural respiration. Give 
the patient several severe slaps on the chest with the 
open hand. Tickle the nose with a feather or a straw. 
Dash cold water on the face and chest. If natural 
breathing is established by these procedures, continue 
the treatment as described under " Restoration of warmth 
and circulation." 

The above measures must be tried quickly, and if 
these are not successful, artificial respiration should be 
resorted to immediately. 

Artificial respiration}- Lay the patient on his back 
with a rolled-up coat, or something similar, under his 

1 The Schafer method of artificial respiration as described in Monthly 
Health Letter No. 27 of the Life Extension Institute, Inc., of New York 
is simpler than the method described above and is preferred by many. 
" Turn the body on face with jacket rolled up under abdomen, com- 
press sides of chest from behind, and force water from lungs. Seize 
tongue with handkerchief and pull forward to clear throat. Be delib- 
erate, but persevering and methodical. Kneel over patient and slowly 
press in the sides of chest while counting one, two, three. Release 
chest and repeat this procedure rhythmically to correspond to slow, 
deep breathing." 



122 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

shoulders. Then draw the tongue forward and out of the 
mouth, as otherwise it will fall back into the throat and 
impede the breathing. This is very important. If there 
is someone to assist you, let him grasp the tongue with a 
dry handkerchief, to prevent its slipping from the fingers ; 
or he may cover his fingers with sand for the same pur- 
pose. He should kneel on one side of the patient, hold- 
ing the tongue out in such a manner as not to have his 
hand and arm interfere with the movements that are to 
be described. If alone, draw the tongue well out and tie 
it against the lower teeth. To do this, lay the center of 
a dry strip of cloth on the tongue, cross it under the 
chin, carry the ends around the neck, and tie them at 
the side of the neck. Do not attempt to tie anything 
around the tongue, as it will probably slip off. Another 
way to hold the tongue out is to slip over it and under 
the chin an ordinary rubber band. 

Having thus quickly adjusted the position of the tongue, 
kneel behind the patient's head, grasp him by the fore- 
arms near the elbows, draw his arms up and over his 
head, and pull very strongly and steadily for three 
seconds, getting a purchase if necessary by bracing your 
foot against his shoulder. This motion draws the ribs 
up, thus- expanding the chest, and air enters. The arms 
are held back thus for three seconds, to allow the air 
sufficient time to completely fill the lungs. 

Now reverse the first movement ; that is, carry the 
arms back until they rest against the sides of the chest, 
the forearms below on the abdomen. Press the forearms 
firmly downward and inward against the abdomen for two 



EMERGENCIES 123 

seconds. This pushes up the diaphragm, depresses the 
ribs, contracts the chest, and forces the air out. 

Then again perform the first movement of drawing 
the arms back, and repeat the movements regularly and 
persistently at the rate of sixteen times per minute until 
the patient makes some effort to breathe. This effort 
may be only a gasp; wait a moment, to see if he will 
breathe again ; if he does not, again perform artificial 
respiration, but now endeavor to time the movements by 
his efforts to breathe ; also, at this time, again resort to 
dashes of cold water and slapping, until gradually 
respiration is established. 

Even though there is no sign of life, artificial respira- 
tion should be continued for an hour and a half or until 
a doctor has pronounced life extinct. 

In the successful performance of artificial respiration 
the air must be heard entering and leaving the chest. 
If this is not heard, either there is some obstruction in 
the throat, such as some foreign substance or the tongue 
falling back, or else the movements of the arms are not 
properly performed. These should be made deliberately 
and with considerable strength. 

Restoration of warmth and circulation. During and 
following these attempts to restore respiration, treatment 
similar to that for shock should also be employed. Let 
assistants place hot-water bottles or warm bricks along 
each side of the body, on the pit of the stomach, between 
the thighs, and at the soles of the feet. At the seashore 
dry bathing clothes that have lain in the sun, or hot sand 
from the beach, may be used. Have the body and limbs 



124 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

vigorously rubbed with the hands or with warm, dry 
cloths. Continue to use friction and all kinds of warmth 
until life is fairly restored. As soon as the patient can 
swallow, give hot drinks, tea or coffee or hot water. 
If there is persistent difficulty in breathing, a large 
mustard plaster should be applied to the chest. 

Suffocation from other causes. If a person has been 
in a room with the gas turned on unlighted, or in a room 
full of charcoal gas or thick with smoke, or in a sewer, 
an old mine, or a well full of poisonous gases, or has 
been hanged or choked, the result is similar to that from 
being under water. He has suffocated because air has 
been prevented from reaching the lungs. 

Treatment. Immediately remove the patient from the 
source of suffocation. If hanging, cut him down. Do 
not fear the coroner. If obliged to enter a room filled 
with smoke or gas, take several full breaths of fresh air 
before entering, and then creep along the floor to the 
windows and throw them wide open. Take more long 
breaths at the window, and then drag the suffocated 
person from the room. 

In rescuing a person from a sewer, a mine, or a well, 
the method is similar, but the rescuer should have a rope 
tied beneath the arms, by which he may be drawn out 
if necessary. 

Treat these cases of suffocation exactly as for apparent 
drowning, by artificial respiration and the measures for 
shock, except that, there being no water in the lungs, 
measures for removing this are not necessary. 



EMERGENCIES 125 

Choking. All sorts of things get into the throat, 
especially with children, and cause suffocation. The suf- 
ferer turns purple in the face ; the eyes protrude ; he 
throws his arms about and sometimes falls unconscious. 
In other cases the foreign body lodges in the larynx or 
the windpipe, causing great distress and violent coughing. 

Treatment. Slap the patient violently on the back, 
or stand him up face to the wall, his chest resting 
against it, ^nd give him a severe blow between the 
shoulders. If the patient is a child, place one hand on 
each side of the chest and squeeze it vigorously and 
suddenly ; or hold the body with the head hanging 
down and slap the back while in this position. If some- 
thing is supposed to be in the throat, perhaps a piece 
of meat, try to grasp it by thrusting the thumb and fore- 
finger down as far as possible, or try to hook it out with 
the forefinger. If the breathing is not seriously inter- 
fered with, it is best to wait for medical aid ; for inter- 
ference may increase the difficulty, and in many cases 
the offending body has passed down, leaving only an 
irritation that is mistaken for its actual presence. 

When a child has swallowed a button, coin, or any 
similar thing, do not give oil or other purgatives ; if he 
is simply let alone, it is more likely to pass from his 
bowels without trouble than when driven through by the 
aid of purgatives. In case the object swallowed is sharp 
or angular, the stomach and intestines may be protected 
from injury by giving the patient rye bread, potatoes, 
and cheese to eat. 



126 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

Fainting. The pale, bloodless face of the person who 
has fainted is well known ; it is the indication of a like 
bloodless state within the brain. The action of the heart 
has been temporarily weakened, and this causes a dimi- 
nution of the blood supply to the brain. This is followed 
by loss of consciousness. The pulse is slow, feeble, and 
sometimes absent. 

Treatment. The fainting person must not be supported 
in an upright position. Lay him down at once ; if on a 
sofa, let the head hang over so that it may be lower 
than the body, and raise the feet on pillows ; this posi- 
tion allows the heart to send blood to the brain more 
readily. Expose the face to cold air, sprinkle it with 
cold water, and hold ammonia or smelling salts to the 
nose. If the faint continues, the case may be treated 
like one of shock. The one great thing to remember is 
that the person who has fainted is to be laid down flat 
and the feet raised to increase the flow of blood to 
the head. 

Stunning, or concussion of the brain. If a person re- 
ceives a severe blow on the head, or falls on the head, 
he is stunned, or has sustained a more or less severe 
concussion of the brain. He is stupid, confused, sick at 
the stomach, often vomits, lies pale and shivering, some- 
times faints, and is more or less insensible, according to 
the severity of the injury. 

Recovery is usually rapid, but the after-effects some- 
times last a long time. 

Treatment. Place such a patient in a cool, quiet, dark 
room, on the back, with the head slightly raised ; unfasten 



EMERGENCIES 127 

any clothing that is tight about the neck or waist. If the 
patient shivers or seems faint and cold, apply heat to 
the body as described under " Shock." Do not give 
stimulants in any head injuries. After the first shock 
has passed away, apply ice to the head. 

Heat-stroke, or sun-stroke. Prolonged exertion in a 
heated atmosphere is likely to cause this, either with or 
without exposure to the sun's rays. It is preceded by 
symptoms that should serve as a warning, headache, 
a sense of weakness at the pit of the stomach and weak- 
ness of the knees, and sometimes vomiting and dis- 
turbed vision. These symptoms may gradually merge into 
unconsciousness or the patient may lose consciousness 
suddenly, without warning. The face, head, and body are 
burning hot and dry. This intense, dry heat of the body 
is the characteristic condition in heat-stroke. The face 
itself is red and flushed. The pulse is full and rapid. 
Convulsive twitchings of various parts of the body are 
frequently observed. 

Treatment. The object of treatment is to reduce the 
heat of the body. Strip the patient, wrap the body in a 
sheet, and keep the sheet wet with cold water by fre- 
quent sprinkling ; continue this until consciousness re- 
turns and the body feels cool. If consciousness is again 
lost after having been recovered, the cold-water treat- 
ment must be repeated. When it is impracticable to 
follow out the above treatment immediately, put cloth 
wrung out of ice water (or the coldest water to be had) 
on the head, the back of the neck, and the hands. But 
do not sacrifice a life for modesty's sake. 



128 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

Hemorrhage, or bleeding, from wounds. To stop bleed- 
ing from any external wound, wherever situated, first let 
the patient lie down, then cut away or remove the 
clothing, as much as necessary to expose the wound 
fully, and raise the part wounded as high as possible. 
This alone will sometimes check bleeding if the vessel 
wounded is a small one or is a vein. If it does not, 
then make a compress by folding any clean cloth, as a 
clean handkerchief or two, or a piece of shirt or skirt, 
or, preferably, a piece of sterile gauze or absorbent 
cotton, into a rather thick, even pad somewhat larger 
than the wound. Place this over the wound and bind it 
on tightly with a handkerchief, a strip of cloth, a pair 
of suspenders, or anything that can be used as a band- 
age. Then watch for a few moments, and if blood con- 
tinues to flow freely through or around the compress, 
apply another compress over the first and bind on still 
more tightly, or make steady and continuous pressure 
with the fingers on the compress. 

If the wound is in a limb and still continues to bleed 
freely, apply a tourniquet (to be presently described), 
keeping the limb still elevated. Do not, however, use 
a tourniquet until the compress and bandage have first 
been carefully tried. A tourniquet may be very painful 
and may even do harm. It is often needlessly applied 
for bleeding that a compress and bandage or finger 
pressure would easily control. 

The tourniquet. Take a handkerchief, a towel, a strip 
of strong cloth, a pair of suspenders, or any similar mate- 
rial, wind it loosely one or more times about the limb 



EMERGENCIES 129 

between the wound and the body, and tie the ends 
together. Place a small, smooth, round stone, apple, 
potato, or wad of cloth, or anything similar at hand, 
under the bandage between it and the skin and over the 
seat of the main artery of the limb. Then pass a cane, 
an umbrella, a ruler, a stick, or a rod of any kind under 
the bandage on the other side of the limb and twist the 
bandage with the rod until the stone or wad is pressed 
firmly into the limb and the bleeding stops. The tourni- 
quet may be left in place until the physician comes, or, 
if very painful, it may be very slowly relaxed at the end 
of half an hour, but must be tightened again if the 
bleeding recommences. 

If the position of the main artery of the limb cannot 
be remembered, apply the tourniquet without the stone 
or wad. 

Bleeding from the nose. This is seldom serious and 
will usually stop of itself in a few minutes if let alone. 
Often it is nature's way of relief from some internal 
condition. 

Treatment. Do not blow or wipe the nose. See that 
there is nothing tight about the neck. Supply an abun- 
dance of fresh air. Keep quiet, either sitting or standing, 
with head slightly bent forward. Apply something cold 
to the bridge of the nose and to the back of the neck. 
Breathe in cool air through the nose and breathe out 
through the mouth. If the bleeding does not stop, the 
following measures may be tried, one after another: 

Put the hands into a basin of water as hot as can 
be borne. 



130 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

Sniff ice water up the nose a few times, and then hold 
the nostrils closed with the ringers for five minutes. 

If these measures fail, summon a physician, informing 
him of the nature of the trouble when doing so. 

Wounds. The immediate treatment of accidental wounds 
is as follows : 

If the wound is bleeding severely, treat as described 
under " Hemorrhage." 

If the bleeding is not severe, simply wipe away any 
blood or loose clots on the surface, without disturbing 
the wound, using a piece of sterilized gauze or cotton 
or the cleanest material obtainable. If the wound stands 
open, draw the edges together as well as possible, using 
pieces of the same material and not touching the wound 
with the fingers. Apply over the wound a good-sized 
pad of the same material, and bandage it firmly in place 
with a handkerchief or any extemporized bandage. 

If the patient is where no surgical help can be ob- 
tained, the dressing may remain on the wound until it 
is healed, unless it discharges or becomes painful ; jn 
this case the dressings are to be changed every day or 
oftener, and the wound washed by pouring sterilized 
water over it. 

The simple sterilized dressings necessary to close 
most accidental wounds are nowadays carried by every 
soldier in action, and should be kept in every house, 
shop, factory, railway station, train, and camping outfit. 
They can be bought at any drug store for a few cents. 
They can be extemporized by boiling for a few minutes 
any sort of material that will serve as a dressing. 



EMERGENCIES 131 

Healing of wounds. There are two ways in which a 
wound may heal. The most desirable and quickest is by 
first intention, or primary union. If this takes place, 
only a short time is required and but a fine scar is left. 
This is accomplished when the wound is kept quiet and 
protected from injury, and when there are no impurities 
in the wound, that is, when asepsis, or freedom from 
germs, has been obtained and preserved. 

If a wound does not close by first intention, it heals 
slowly by second intention (that is, with formation of 
granulations), and finally leaves a large scar. This occurs 
when so much of the skin has been destroyed that the 
edges of the wound cannot be brought together, when 
the wound is disturbed, when blood collects in it, forcing 
it apart, or when the wound is dirty, that is, when asepsis 
has not been preserved. 

Little cuts, pricks, and scrapes should always be treated 
carefully, for blood poisoning may result from the most 
trifling wound. As soon as bleeding stops, apply tincture 
of iodine or wash thoroughly with alcohol. Many slight 
wounds need no other dressing. 

If a little cut stands open, it may be brought together 
with a piece of surgeon's plaster through the middle, but 
never cover any wound entirely with plaster. Over this, or 
over any slight wound to protect it, may be placed a small 
sterilized pad held in place by a finger cot or bandage. 

Infected wounds. Wounds that have been contaminated 
may become red, swollen, and painful and may give rise 
to fever. Germs are then present, and the wound is said 
to be infected, or septic. In such cases all dressings must 



132 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

be removed ; the wound must be opened if necessary, and 
must be thoroughly washed out with sterilized water or 
peroxide of hydrogen and dressed every few hours with 
wet, sterilized compresses. A physician should see the 
case immediately if possible. Always inform him of the 
nature of the trouble. 

Little cuts and scratches that discharge may be washed 
with the peroxide and dressed twice a day with borated 
vaseline or zinc ointment, to keep the dressing from 
sticking. 

Dog-bites. A dog-bite is often only a trifling thing, 
and the fright that it causes is usually not warranted. 
It should be treated like any lacerated wound. It is well, 
however, in all cases, to consult a physician as soon as 
possible ; and if there is any suspicion that the dog has 
rabies, or is " mad," or even if it is sick in any way, 
this should be done at any cost or trouble. The Pasteur 
treatment, begun within a few days after the bite of a rabid 
animal, is an almost certain preventive of the development 
of rabies. 

A dog that has bitten anyone should never be killed 
until it has been shut up and watched for ten days, to 
see if it develops rabies. It is best to put the dog in the 
care of a veterinary surgeon. If the dog has been killed, 
send the head or the whole body to the health authorities 
for examination. The popular belief that the prompt 
killing of the dog will prevent the possible development 
of rabies in the person bitten is erroneous. 

Other animals may have rabies and communicate it to 
human beings. 



EMERGENCIES 133 

Poisons and poisoning. A poison may be defined as a 
substance which, when taken into the body, causes illness 
or even death. 

Treatment. In all cases of poisoning, of whatever 
nature, the very first thing to do is to give liquids to 
dilute and neutralize the poison in the stomach, and at 
the same time to empty the stomach. To do this, give 
the first harmless thing to drink that you can lay your 
hands on, and plenty of it, glass after glass, until 
the patient vomits. The more disgusting and nauseating 
the drink is, the better; give soapy water, dishwater, 
lukewarm water, sweet oil, milk, raw eggs, even cold 
water if nothing else is at hand. As quickly as possible 
give, in a glass of warm water, a tablespoonful of dry 
mustard, or a teaspoonful of salt, or a tablespoonful of 
wine or sirup of ipecac. If not immediately successful 
in producing vomiting, push the forefinger as far down 
the throat as possible and keep it there until the patient 
does vomit. Something should be placed between the 
teeth to prevent being bitten. 

In any and every case of poisoning, never cease your 
efforts until free vomiting has taken place. Repeat the 
drinks, the use of the forefinger, and, if necessary, the 
emetics until you are sure the stomach is empty. If 
the stomach is repeatedly filled with warm water and 
repeated vomiting takes place, it may be as thoroughly 
washed out as by the use of the stomach tube. 

In all cases of poisoning, keep up the efforts to produce 
vomiting until the stomach is completely emptied ; then 
give two tablespoonfuls of castor oil to empty the bowels. 



134 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

All poisonings require professional care. If a physician 
is not obtainable, and evidences of shock appear, the 
treatment for this must be carried out. 

Antidotes. An antidote is a substance that tends to 
neutralize a poison or its effects. 

If an acid has been taken, give, as an antidote, a mild 
alkali to neutralize the acid, limewater, cooking soda, 
magnesia, or plaster scraped from the walls and stirred 
in water ; if an alkali has been taken, give a weak acid, 
lemon juice or a tablespoonful of vinegar in water. If 
carbolic acid has been taken, give Epsom salts in warm 
water, then the whites of several eggs mixed with water, 
or large quantities of milk. If it is a case of opium poi- 
soning, after emptying the stomach keep the patient 
walking up and down, meanwhile slapping him with a 
wet towel. Give half a pint or more of strong black 
coffee by the mouth or by injection into the rectum if 
the patient cannot swallow. On no account allow him to 
fall asleep, but do not exhaust the patient by the means 
employed to keep him awake. If, in spite of all efforts, 
the patient seems to be sinking and the respiration is 
failing (that is, becoming slower than five or six a minute), 
begin artificial respiration and continue it for hours. 

Burns. Burns may be caused by contact with flames, 
hot metals, hot liquids, steam, or chemicals. Burns are 
dangerous in proportion to their depth and extent. The 
skin may be simply reddened or it may be blistered or 
charred. Burns that cover a large surface are apt to be 
fatal, especially in children, and shock is common after 
severe burns. 



EMERGENCIES 135 

If a person's clothes are on fire, throw him down, 
wrap him in anything woolen that may be at hand, a 
blanket, a rug, or a coat, and roll him about until the 
flames are extinguished ; then pour water on the burning 
parts until the last spark has disappeared. 

The clothes must be carefully cut away with sharp 
scissors. If any part of the clothing adheres to the flesh, 
do not attempt to remove it. In severe burns the patient 
may be put, clothes and all, into a warm bath, and the 
clothes removed while there. 

Treatment. Slight burns or scalds should be treated 
by covering them with clean cloths wet with a warm 
solution of washing or baking soda, made by putting 
into the water as much soda as it will dissolve. Keep 
the dressing wet with this until all pain is gone. Then 
dress with boric-acid ointment or vaseline, or paint with 
collodion. 

A severe burn 1 is eminently a case for the care of the 
physician, who should be called immediately. An impor- 
tant part of the management of a burn is the treatment 
of the accompanying shock. 

Exposure to cold and frost-bite. Exposure to cold may 
cause a general chilling of the whole body, resulting in 
depression, insensibility, and death. Chilling may take 
place insidiously and without the person being aware of 

1 In case of a severe burn it is best to limit the treatment to the 
soda solution until the physician arrives. The oily, sticky dressings 
which were formerly used are not recommended. Not being sterile, 
they may lead to serious infection ; and they will always be removed by 
the surgeon to make way for the modern paraffin treatment. Removing 
sticky cotton and lint from a burned surface is a very painful operation. 



136 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

it, even when the cold is not intense. This is especially 
liable to occur during exhaustion by overwork, long 
marches, or starvation, and in those whose vitality is 
lowered from any cause. Accompanying the general 
chilling, or without it, the exposed parts (for instance, 
the ears, nose, fingers, toes, or even an arm or a leg) 
may become blue, purple, and then white and stiff. 

Treatment. As quickly as possible get the sufferer 
into a warm place and remove the clothing. Then rub 
him with the hands or hot flannels and give hot tea, 
coffee, broth, or hot water. If the person is insensible, 
artificial respiration may be necessary. 

Usually it has been taught that a frozen limb should 
be put into cold water or rubbed with snow, but experi- 
ments on animals have shown that, after exposure to 
cold, recovery is more rapid and sure when the animal 
is immersed in a warm bath which is made gradually 
warmer until it is as hot as can be borne. This, there- 
fore, is recommended in all cases of severe chilling or 
frost-bite. 

Accidents from electricity. The injured person should 
be at once removed from the influence of the current. 
This often entails great danger to the rescuer, who should 
have on, if possible, rubber boots or shoes and rubber 
gloves. If these are not at hand, the rescuer may be 
insulated by standing on something dry and thick that 
is not metal, such as a folded coat. Dry papers or cloth 
may be wrapped about the hands and used in laying hold 
of the person in danger, or in touching live wires. In 
dragging a person from the current, seize hold of the 



EMERGENCIES 137 

clothing and not the hands or feet. A live wire may be 
dragged away with the wooden crook of a cane or um- 
brella, or with any dry stick, or with the insulated hands ; 
or the current from a broken wire may be grounded by 
grasping the insulated portions with insulated hands and 
pressing the broken end against a metal pole or grating, 
or even into the ground. In cutting a live wire the hands 
or feet should be insulated. 

Treatment. After removal from the current the in- 
jured person should be laid down with his head lower 
than his feet. Artificial respiration, if necessary, should 
be performed until a physician arrives, and other treat- 
ment employed as in shock. A physician should be 
summoned immediately. 

Transportation of the injured. If it is necessary to 
move an injured person from one place to another, it 
should be done in such a manner as to cause him as 
little suffering and danger as possible. By unskillful 
handling the sharp ends of a broken bone may be thrust 
through the flesh or may cut into an artery, or the bleed- 
ing in a wound may be started afresh. Every particle of 
strength wasted by pain during the transit lessens the 
chances of recovery and may turn the scale on the side 
of death. 

Never move an injured person until a careful exami- 
nation has been made for possible fractures, and the 
necessary splints and dressings applied. 

After the wound or fracture has been attended to, the 
sufferer should, if possible, be placed on a stretcher. For 
this a board, bench, door, shutter, or similar article may 



138 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

be used. A stretcher may also be improvised from two 
poles with some support stretched between. For instance, 
take two coats, turn the sleeves inside out, button the 
coats, and run the poles through the sleeves. 

To place a person on a stretcher. Three persons are 
needed to do this in the easiest and most comfortable 
manner, two to act as bearers of the stretcher and one 
to attend to the injured part. Place the stretcher at the 
head of the patient on a line with the body, the foot 
of the stretcher being nearest the patient's head. One 
bearer kneels on each side of the patient and joins 
hands underneath his hips and shoulders with the bearer 
on the opposite side. The third man attends to the 
wounded limb or looks after any bandages or splints 
that may have been applied. The bearers then rise to 
their feet, raising the patient in a horizontal position, 
and, by a series of side steps, bring the patient over the 
stretcher. He is then lowered gently onto it and made 
as comfortable as possible. The taller of the two bearers 
places himself between the handles at the head of the 
patient, the other at the foot. The bearer at the head 
starts off with his left foot, the other with his right. If 
they should keep step, the stretcher would roll badly. 
The patient is carried feet first except in going upstairs 
or up a hill, when he is carried head first. If a stretcher 
or some substitute cannot be procured, the injured person 
must be carried by other means. 

Other methods of transportation. Two persons join 
their hands together in the following manner : Each of 
the two grasps his right wrist with his left hand, back 



EMERGENCIES 139 

uppermost. Then each grasps his companion's left wrist 
with his right hand. This forms what the children call 
a " lady's chair." The patient sits on this support, at 
the same time putting his arms around the necks of 
the bearers to steady himself. 

If the patient is unable to sit in the "lady's chair," 
one bearer, standing behind him, passes his arms under 
the patient's arms and clasps hands over his chest. 
The other bearer stands between the legs, his back 
turned toward the patient's face, and passes his arms 
beneath the knees from the outside. The patient may 
now be lifted and carried. 

To carry a person without the aid of others (for in- 
stance, a man who has been suffocated in a burning 
house), hold him in a chair while you place your shoulder 
against his abdomen ; then throw the arm belonging to 
that shoulder around him and rise to the feet with his 
body hanging over your shoulder like a meal sack. His 
head and shoulders hang down behind, while his legs 
are in front. This method occupies only one hand, thus 
leaving the other free for use in descending a ladder 
or for other purposes. 

To prevent the spread of contagion. On the occurrence 
of any of the contagious diseases the following precau- 
tions are to be taken : A room at the top of the house, 
capable of the most perfect ventilation, is chosen, the 
carpet taken up, and all hangings and all but the sim- 
plest furniture removed. After the room is thoroughly 
cleaned, the patient is placed in it, and the other inmates 
of the house are shut out. The nurse must have as 



140 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

little communication with the household as possible. Her 
food and everything to supply the needs of the patient 
are placed on a table outside the door. The door is kept 
closed, and a sheet kept constantly wet with a disinfectant 
is hung up outside. 

Disinfection. Disinfection, when properly carried out, 
is of extreme importance. When inefficiently done, it 
is very dangerous in giving a false sense of security. 

The object of disinfection is to kill the germs of dis- 
ease. These germs are often very tenacious of life and 
are not to be destroyed by simply creating a strong odor 
of some disfectant in a room. For the sick-room itself, 
while occupied by the patient, fresh air and scrupulous 
cleanliness are the best disinfectants. 

For infected articles complete destruction by fire is, 
of course, an absolute disinfection, but articles that it is 
not desirable to destroy may be safely disinfected by boil- 
ing for one hour in water. The addition of a little wash- 
ing soda to the water makes the disinfection more rapid. 
Articles which are not greasy may also be safely disin- 
fected by soaking for an hour in a solution made by dis- 
solving three ounces of pure (not crude) carbolic acid in 
a gallon of water. Infected bedclothing, underclothing, 
and handkerchiefs may be safely removed from the sick- 
room if inclosed in a soiled-clothes bag, pillowcase, or 
sheet soaked in the carbolic-acid solution. They must 
then be plunged, without being unwrapped, into boiling 
water and boiled for an hour. They may then be washed 
in the ordinary way. Knives, forks, spoons, and dishes 
should be washed with the carbolic-acid solution and 



EMERGENCIES 141 

boiled for half an hour. Scraps of food should be burned. 
All discharges from the patient, including those from 
the mouth and nose, should be treated at once by the 
carbolic-acid solution or other disinfectants, or destroyed 
by fire. For the expectoration of consumptives, paper 
boxes are made, which must be burned before the ex- 
pectoration becomes dry. Bedpans and similar utensils 
must be thoroughly washed with the solution, a little of 
which should be left in the utensil. 

To disinfect water-closets, drains, cesspools, sewers, 
cellars, privies, yards, and stables, use fresh, dry chloride 
of lime or other disinfectant as directed by the physician. 



QUESTIONS 

1. Define shock. What are the symptoms ? 

2. Outline the treatment for shock. 

3. What are contusions ? How should they be treated ? 

4. Describe the condition of a joint that has been sprained. 

5. How should sprains be treated ? 

6. How do dislocations differ from sprains ? 

7. Why is it inexpedient for unskilled persons to attempt 
to treat dislocations? What should be done while waiting for 
a physician ? 

8. What is a simple fracture ? a compound fracture ? Why 
is a compound fracture dangerous ? 

9. What treatment should be administered while waiting for 
skilled assistance ? 

10. Why are triangular bandages recommended for emergency 
cases instead of roller bandages ? 



142 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

11. Describe the triangular bandage. Learn to make and 
to apply one. 

12. Give directions for making roller bandages. 

13. Give directions for applying the roller bandage. Why 
should we avoid having it too tight ? 

14. Learn to make and to apply the roller bandage. 

15. Give full directions for the treatment of apparent drowning. 

16. Give directions for producing artificial respiration by the 
Schafer method. 

17. Practice the movements of artificial respiration with 
another person until you can do them without consulting the 
directions. 

18. What besides being submerged in water will cause 
suffocation ? 

19. What precautions should be observed in attempting to 
rescue a person who has been overcome by gas or by smoke ? 

20. How does the treatment in such cases differ from that 
for apparent drowning ? 

21. Give full directions for the treatment of choking. 

22. What should be done when buttons and such things 
have been- swallowed? 

23. What are the symptoms of ordinary fainting? Give 
directions for treatment. 

24. How is stunning caused ? What are the symptoms ? 
What is the treatment? How does this treatment differ from 
that for fainting ? 

25. How is sun-stroke caused? What are the symptoms? 
Give directions for treatment. 

26. Give directions for stopping the bleeding of wounds. 

27. Describe the tourniquet and its use. Why should it not 
be applied unless absolutely necessary ? 



EMERGENCIES 143 

28. Give directions for stopping bleeding of the nose. 

29. Give directions for the immediate treatment of wounds. 
How may simple sterilized dressings be obtained ? 

30. Explain what is meant by the healing of wounds by first 
intention ; by second intention. 

31. Why should small injuries always be treated carefully? 
Why not cover any wound entirely with surgeon's plaster ? 

32. What are infected wounds ? How should they be treated ? 

33. How should dog-bites be treated ? When should a physi- 
cian be consulted ? Why ? 

34. Why should a dog that has bitten a person not be killed 
at once ? 

35. Outline the treatment which should be given in all cases 
of poisoning. 

36. Define an antidote. What is the antidote for poisoning 
by an acid ? by an alkali ? by carbolic acid ? What is the 
treatment for opium poisoning ? 

37. How may a fire in a person's clothes be extinguished? 
How should the clothes then be removed ? 

38. How should burns be treated if slight ? if severe ? 

39. Outline the treatment for frost-bite. 

40. What precautions should be taken in trying to remove 
a person from the influence of an electric current ? 

41. How should a person be treated after removal ? 

42. Why should great care be exercised in moving an 
injured person ? 

43. What may be used as an improvised stretcher? 

44. Give directions for placing a person on a stretcher. Why 
should the bearers not keep step ? 

45. Give directions for carrying a person in a " lady's chair." 
Demonstrate. 



144 



MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 



46. How may a person who is unable to sit in a " lady's 
chair " be carried by two bearers ? Demonstrate. 

47. How may a single bearer carry a person who is helpless ? 
Demonstrate. 

48. What precautions should be taken to prevent the spread 
of contagious diseases ? 

49. What is the purpose of disinfection ? Why should it be 
done thoroughly ? 

50. Give directions for disinfecting the various articles used in 
a sick-room. How should water-closet drains etc. be disinfected ? 



APPENDIX 

THE PARTS OF THE BODY AND THEIR WORK 

Materials of the body. Any part of the body which has 
some special work to do is called an organ. Examples of organs 
are the eye, the ear, the skin, the heart, and the lungs. Since 
different organs have different work to do, they must have 
different structures and must be made of different materials. 
The materials in the body are called tissues. There are sev- 
eral kinds of these materials, or tissues, about which we ought 
to be informed. The principal ones are bone, muscle, nerve, 
fat, cartilage, epidermal tissue, and connective tissue. 

Bone is composed of animal matter and limy material. The 
bones of adults contain about two parts of lime to one of animal 
matter. In the bones of children there is less of lime, and in 
those of old people there is more. For this reason the bones 
of children are less liable to be broken than those of older 
persons. In children, also, owing to the larger percentage of 
animal matter, broken bones reunite more readily. 

The muscle, or flesh, is the most abundant of the building 
materials, making up about two fifths of the weight of the 
body. Its principal property is that of growing shorter and 
thicker when stimulated by the nerves. By this contraction all 
the movements of the body are produced. 

The nerve material is of two kinds, called white matter and 
gray matter. The gray matter is principally in the brain and 
spinal cord, the chief nerve centers. The nerves are slender 
white threads which extend to every part of the body. They 



146 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

carry messages (stimuli) to and from the brain and spine. 
Through them all the organs of the body are brought under 
the control of these nerve centers. 

Fat occurs in the marrow of the bones, in the sockets of the 
eyes, and in a thin layer all over the body, especially in young 
people. It is the reserve material of the body, and also helps 
to keep the body warm. 

Cartilage, also called gristle, is tough and elastic. It is used 
where bone would be too brittle, as in the ears, the windpipe, 
and the end of the nose. It is also used in the joints and 
between the ends of bones, to prevent jars. 

Epidermal tissue forms the outer layer of the skin and 
lines the interior of the body, as in the mouth, the nose, 
and the throat. 

Connective tissue consists of long fibers. It is found in every 
organ of the body and is used to bind the other materials to- 
gether. It forms the principal part of tendons and ligaments 
and is abundant in the skin. It is this tissue that makes meat 
and leather tough. 

Divisions of the body and what they contain. Now that we 
know something about the materials of which the body is 
composed, let us look at the body as a whole, to see how 
some of these materials are distributed and to learn what the 
body contains. Its main divisions are the head, the trunk, and 
the limbs. We will examine each of these divisions separately. 

Head. The head contains the brain, with its bony covering, 
and the organs of special sense, for seeing, hearing, smelling, 
and tasting. 

Trunk. The trunk is divided by a crosswise partition about 
in the middle. This partition is called the diaphragm. It is 
muscular and is used in breathing. The part of the trunk 
above this is called the chest or thorax. It contains the lungs 



APPENDIX 147 

and heart, also the gullet and windpipe. The part below the 
diaphragm is called the abdomen. It contains the stomach, 
liver, pancreas, intestines, kidneys, bladder, and spleen. 

Limbs. A cross section of any limb would show the following 
tissues : the skin in two layers, dermis and epidermis ; a thin 
layer of fat just, under the skin; muscle, the largest part; blood 
vessels and nerves, the large ones deep for protection ; bone, 
the framework ; and connective tissue, binding all the others 
together. 

Classification of organs according to work. We have learned 
that the body is composed of a very complicated set of organs. 
We know something of their size, positions, etc., and of the 
materials of which they are made. It now remains for us to 
find out their functions, that is, what each one has to do to help 
maintain the activities of the body. For this purpose it has been 
found convenient to arrange the organs in groups according to 
the kind of work each is called upon to perform. These groups 
are as follows : organs of locomotion, of digestion, of circulation, 
of respiration, and of excretion, and the nervous system. 

Organs of locomotion. These organs are the bones, cartilages, 
and ligaments of the skeleton and the muscles which cover 
them. The bones are of three kinds: long and slender, for 
motion and locomotion, as in the limbs; short, thick, and 
irregular, for support, as in the spine ; and flat and broad, 
for protection, as the bones surrounding the brain. 

Cartilages are used for cushions where the ends of bones 
meet, as at the joints and between the bones of the spine. 
They are also used where there is some motion between bones, 
but not enough to require a joint, as where the ends of the 
ribs are joined to the breastbone. 

Ligaments are strong bands of connective tissue. They bind 
the bones together and limit their motion at the joints. 



148 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

Muscles. There are more than five hundred muscles in the 
body. They are attached to the bones by tendons, usually 
to two bones. When the muscle contracts, the bones are moved. 
With the assistance of joints not only motion but locomotion 
may be produced. The muscles also protect the internal organs. 
Some are under the control of the will and are called voluntary 
muscles, for example, the muscles of the limbs ; others are 
not under the control of the will and are called involuntary, 
for example, the muscles of the heart and of the stomach. There 
are also some muscles that are partly voluntary and partly in- 
voluntary, for example, the muscles used in breathing and 
the muscles used in winking. All muscles are under the control 
of the nervous system. 

Organs of digestion. In general, food is prepared in the 
mouth, stored in the stomach, and digested in the small intes- 
tine. These parts, together with the throat, gullet, and large 
intestine, form what is called the alimentary canal. Digestion 
really starts in the mouth and is continued through the stomach 
and the small intestine. These organs, of themselves, are power- 
less to digest food without the assistance of certain glands, 
whose secretions are mixed with the food as it moves along 
through the alimentary canal. The principal of these are the 
salivary glands, the liver, and the pancreas. A complete list of the 
organs of digestion must therefore include the mouth (with 
the teeth and salivary glands), the throat, the gullet (esophagus), 
the stomach, the intestines (small and large), the liver, and the 
pancreas. Their combined function is to change the food to a 
form in which it can be absorbed into the blood. The saliva of 
the mouth acts upon starqhes and sugars ; the gastric juice of 
the stomach, upon proteins (meats, fish, eggs, etc.) ; the bile 
of the liver, upon fats and oils ; and the pancreatic juice, upon 
all three kinds of food. 



APPENDIX 149 

Organs of circulation. After the food has been digested and 
absorbed by the blood, it must be carried to all parts of the 
body. Along with the food must go a supply of oxygen. To 
obtain food and oxygen, and to distribute them to the parts of 
the body which need them, is the work of the organs of circu- 
lation, which are the heart and the blood vessels. The heart 
is a double pump. With one side it receives blood returning 
from many parts of the body, and sends it to the lungs ; with 
the other side it receives blood from the lungs, and sends it out 
again over the body. There are three kinds of blood vessels : 
arteries, veins, and capillaries. The arteries carry the blood 
away from the heart ; the veins bring it back. The capillaries 
are very minute vessels which connect the arteries with the 
veins and form a network in every part of the body. It is 
from these that the tissues get their food. 

Organs of respiration. While it is from the lungs that the 
oxygen of the air finds its way into the blood, all the organs 
that assist in furnishing and distributing the oxygen must be 
included in the organs of respiration. They are the mouth and 
nose, the throat, the windpipe, the lungs, and the blood vessels ; 
also the nerves, muscles, bones, and cartilages of the chest. 
Their function is to supply the body with oxygen. 

Organs of excretion. The indigestible parts of food pass 
through the intestines and out of the body, together with many 
of the poisonous substances formed in the intestines by bacterial 
action. Some of the latter, however, are absorbed by the blood 
and are carried directly to the liver, by which organ they are 
rendered harmless and are turned back again into the intestine, 
through the bile duct, to be expelled from the body. In this 
way the intestines and the liver serve as excretory organs, but 
they apparently have nothing to do with freeing the body of 
the products of oxidation. The organs doing this work are 



150 MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 

the lungs, the kidneys, and the skin ; and these harmful prod- 
ucts leave the body by way of the breath, the urine, and the 
perspiration. 

The nervous system. All the tissues and all the organs thus 
far described are powerless and useless of themselves, but 
under the control and direction of another set of organs they 
work together harmoniously, each contributing its share to that 
which goes to make up a living human body. This important 
system of organs, which is itself dependent upon the coopera- 
tion of all the others, is called the nervous system. It consists 
of the brain, the spinal cord, and the nerves. The brain, the 
most delicate of organs, is incased in the bony skull and con- 
tains the principal nerve centers. The spinal cord lies inside 
the backbone. Besides containing many nerve centers, it is a 
cable of nerves which extend all over the body. These nerves 
serve as lines of communication between the various organs of 
the body and the brain and spine, the centers in which originate 
every thought, purpose, and act of our lives. 



INDEX 



Acetanilide a dangerous drug, 107 

Adenoids, 70 

Air baths, 50 

Alcohol, effects of, on the human 
system, 104-106; shortens life, 
104; causes disease, 104; di- 
minishes power of resistance, 
105; causes intoxication, 105; 
deranges nervous system, 105 ; 
causes insanity and crime, 106; 
has an unfortunate result on 
heredity, 106; as an antiseptic, 
112, 131, 132 

Antibodies, 1 13 

Antidotes, 134 

Antiseptics, 111-112, 131, 132 

Antitoxins, 112-113 

Appetite, as a guide to eating, 14 ; 
sugar interferes with the, 26 

Arteries, organs of circulation, 4 ; 
flexibility of, 99 ; hardening of 
the, 99 ; work of the, 149 

Artificial respiration, the Schafer 
method, 121 ; for drowning, 
121-123; f r S as an d other 
poisoning, 124 

Auditory canal, 91-92 

Auricle, 91 

Bacteria, definition of, 6, no; 
different kinds of, 7 ; and de- 
vouring cells, 7 ; effect of Pas- 
teurization on, 28 ; in the mouth, 
42 ; in dirty finger nails, 51 ; in 
sputum, 80 ; the cause of decay, 
no; how bacteria thrive, no; in 
the spore stage, iio-m ; effect 
of dryness on, 1 10-1 1 1 ; effect of 
temperature on, in; oxygen 
requirements of, in ; checking 
the growth of, by antiseptics and 



disinfectants, 111-112; in food, 

112; and serums, 112-113; m 

the intestines, 149 
Balanced meals, 15 
Baldness, cause of, 56 
Bandage, the triangular, 1 19 ; the 

roller, 119; applying the roller, 

119-120 
Bathing, reason for, 48 ; in warm 

water, 49 ; in cold water, 49-50 ; 

and a vigorous rubbing, 49 ; 

effect on the nerves, 49, 50 ; in 

the air, 50 ; a Turkish bath, 50 ; 

swimming, 50-51 ; for the face, 

51 ; for the hands, 51-52 ; soap, 

52 ; for colds, 74 
Bedclothing, 31-32 

Blood, circulation of, 4-5, 149; 
oxidation of, 9 ; pure water in, 
25 ; action of, in exercise, 34, 35 

Blood vessels, three kinds of, 4-5, 
149; in the eye, 87 

Body, as an engine, 4 ; heat and 
energy of, 4-7 ; digestion, 4 ; 
circulation, 4-5 ; respiration, 5 ; 
excretion, 6 ; bacteria, 6-7 ; de- 
fense of, 7 ; food requirements 
of, 14 ; water in, 25 ; tempera- 
ture of, 47 ; divisions of, 146147 

Bones, composition of, 145; three 
kinds of, 147 

Brain, the nerve center, 150 

Bread and butter, 15, 17 

Breathing, 9-12; importance of 
pure air in, 9 ; relation of, to 
energy, 9 ; evils of shallow, 9 ; 
benefits of deep, 10; of fresh 
air, 10 ; of warm air, 1 1 ; of dry 
air, 1 1 ; corsets interfere with, 65 

Bruises, treatment for, 116117 

Burns, treatment for, 134-135 



152 



MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 



Caffeine, effect of, 26-27 

Candy as a food, 19 

Canned foods, vitamins lacking 
in, 19 

Capillaries, organs of circulation, 
4, 5 ; work of the, 149 

Carbohydrates, food value of, 14- 
15; lacking in milk, 27 

Carbolic acid as an antiseptic, 112 

Carbon dioxide, how formed, 6; 
escape of, from the body, 6; 
where given up, 9 

Cartilage, uses of, 146, 147 

Catarrh, cause of, 75; treatment 
for, 75 ; and conjunctivitis, 87 ; 
cures for, 108 

Cheerfulness, effect of, on health, 
38-40 

Chest in respiration, 5 

Chewing, value of thoroughness 
in, 16-17 

Chloride of lime as a disinfectant, 
112 

Choking, treatment for, 125 

Circulation, organs of, 4-5, 149 ; 
effect of exercise on, 34 ; effect 
of tobacco on, 99 

Clothing, change in, 48 ; general 
suggestions in regard to, 62- 
65 ; woolen, 62-63 ; cotton, 63 ; 
for winter, 63-64 ; raincoats, 64 ; 
stockings, 64-65 ; garters, 65 ; 
corsets, 65 

Cocaine, 101-102 

Cocoa as a food, 27 

Coffee as a beverage, 26-27 

Colds, the skin and, 48 ; how baths 
help to prevent, 50 ; are bacterial 
diseases, 72 ; conditions accom- 
panying, 72 ; favorable condi- 
tions for, 72-73 ; treatment of, 
73-74; prevention of, 74-75; 
catarrh caused by, 75 

Concussion of the brain, treatment 
for, 126 

Condiments, 20 

Conjunctivitis, 87 

Connective tissue, formation of, 
146; as ligaments, 147 



Constipation, three causes of, 21 ; 
remedy for, 21-22 ; wheat flour 
and, 21 ; Graham flour and, 22 
Consumption, and shallow breath- 
ing, 9 ; a widespread disease, 
79 ; infectious, 79 ; how spread, 
79-80 ; the sputum, 80 ; infected 
dust and, 81 ; curability of, 81 ; 
influence of climate on, 81-82; 
home treatment for, 82 ; preven- 
tion of, 82-83 ; and alcohol, 105 ; 
patent remedies for, 108 
Contagion, preventing the spread 

of, 139-141 

Contusions, treatment for, 1 16-117 
Cooking, effect of, on food, 19 
Corns, caused by wrong shoes, 68 
Corrosive sublimate as a disin- 
fectant, 112 
Corsets, dangers of, 65 
Cotton in the ear, 92-93 
Cotton cloth, 63 

Cough sirups, to be avoided, 108 
Curvature of the spine, 77-78 

Dandruff, 56 

Decay caused by bacteria, 6-7, 42, 

no 
Decomposition of food, harmful 

products of, 6 ; how caused, 6 
Deafness, temporary, 92, 94 ; per- 
manent, 95-96 ; cures for, 108 
Deficiency diseases, 19 
Delirium tremens, 105 
Dental floss, 44 
Devouring cells, 7 
Diaphragm, description of, 146 
Diet, well-balanced, 15-16; for 

children, 16; for brain workers, 

16; effect of, on intestines, 20-22; 

for insomnia, 31 ; for colds, 74 
Digestion, the organs of, 4, 148 ; 

foods which impair the, 16; 

sugar interferes with, 26 ; effect 

of cocaine on, 102 
Disease, in early stages, 2 ; caused 

by bacteria, 7 ; soap and, 52 ; 

a cold as a, 72 ; the bacteria of, 

IIO-III 



INDEX 



153 



Disinfectants, 111-112, 140-141 

Dislocations, treatment for, 117- 
118 

Dog-bites, 132 

Drafts, danger in, 73 

Drinking, 25-28 ; effect on health, 
25; effect on looks, 25; at meals, 
25-26; at other times, 26; of 
ice water, 26; of hot water, 26; 
of soda, 26; of tea, coffee, and 
cocoa, 26-27 ; of milk, 27-28 

Drowning, treatment for, 120-124 

Dry air, 10-11 ; effect of, on bac- 
teria, no 

Earache, cause and remedy, 94-95 
Ears, 91-96; parts of, 91; freez- 
ing, 91; washing, 91; the audi- 
tory canal, 91-92 ; wax in, 92 ; 
temporary deafness, 92 ; remov- 
ing foreign substances from, 93 ; 
the drumhead, 93 94; the middle 
ear, 94-95 ; earache, 94-95 ; per- 
manent deafness, 95 
Eating, 14-22; appetite a guide 
to, 14; what to eat, 1416; pro- 
tein foods, 14-15; carbohydrate 
foods, 1 5 ; fats, 15 ; minerals and 
vegetable acids, 1 5 ; milk an al- 
most perfect food, 15; balanced 
diet, 1 5 ; relation of diet to work, 
16; rules for, 16-17; indigestion, 
17-18; lunches between meals, 
18; fruits, 18; sugar, 19; raw 
foods, 19-20; condiments, 20; 
relation of, to constipation, 20- 
21 ; and colds, 74 
Electric fan an aid in ventilation, 1 2 
Electricity, accidents from, 136-137 
Emergencies : shock, 115; contu- 
sions, 116; sprains, 117; dislo- 
cations, 117; fractures, 118; 
drowning, 120; suffocation from 
other causes, 124; choking, 125; 
fainting, 126; stunning, 126; 
concussion of the brain, 126; 
heat-stroke, 127; hemorrhage, 
128; nosebleed, 129; wounds, 
130; dog-bites, 132; poisoning, 



133; burns, 134; chilling and 
frost-bite, 135; accidents from 
electricity, 136; transporting the 
injured, 137 

Emotions, influence of, on the 
body, 38-39 

Energy, how produced, 4, 5, 9 

Epidermal tissue, 146 

Esophagus an organ of digestion, 
4, 148 

Evaporation, effect of, on the skin, 
47-48 

Excretion, the products of, 6 

Excretory organs, 6, 149-1 50; how 
injured, 6; the skin as one of 
the, 48 

Exercise, effect of, on deep breath- 
ing, 10 ; general effects of, 34- 
37 ; effect of, on the general 
circulation, 34 ; effect of, on the 
muscles, 35-36; violent versus 
moderate, 36; and the heart, 36; 
the best forms of, 36-37 ; for 
weak lungs, 78-79 

Eyes, 85-89; defects of vision, 
85-86; watering of, 86; inflam- 
mation in, 87 ; cinders in, 87 ; 
" black eye," 88 ; some things 
which are bad for, 88 ; relation 
of general health to, 89 ; effect 
of tobacco on, 98 

Face, washing the, 51 

Fainting, treatment for, 126 

Fat in the bones, 146 

Fatigue, effect of, on the stomach, 
17 ; and sleep, 30 

Fats as food, 14, 15 

Feather bed unhygienic, 32 

Feet, correct shoes for, 67-68 

Focal infection, 71-72 

Food, valueless unless oxidized, 9 ; 
needed for a normal diet, 14- 
16; for children, 16; for brain 
workers, 16; fruit, 18; sugar, 
19 ; raw, 19 ; and constipation, 
20-21 ; relation of, to condition 
of teeth, 42 

Formaldehyde as a disinfectant, 112 



154 



MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 



Fracture, treatment of, 118-120 
Freezing, effect of, on bacteria, Hi 
Frost-bite, treatment for, 135-136 
Fruits, as food, 18 ; bananas, 18 

Garters, relation of, to health, 65 
Graham flour and constipation, 22 

Hair, the, 56-60; the scalp, 56-58; 
dandruff, 56 ; brushing, 57 ; the 
brush, 57 ; the comb, 57 ; sham- 
pooing, 57-58 ; massaging, 58 ; 
oiling the scalp, 58 ; wetting, 58 ; 
cutting, 59; dressing, 59; tonics, 
59 ; removing unsightly hairs, 
59 ; gray hairs, 59 ; effect of 
hats on the scalp, 59-60 
Hair restorers, 108 
Hands, care of the, 51 
Hats, effect on the scalp, 59-60 
Head, the, 146 
Headache powders, 107-108 
Heart, an organ of circulation, 4 ; 
stimulated by coffee and tea, 27 ; 
effect of exercise on, 34, 36; 
effect of tobacco on, 98-99 ; a 
double pump, 149 
Heat, how produced, 4, 5 ; excess 

of, from the body, 47 
Heat-stroke, treatmentfor, 127-128 
Hemorrhage, treatment for, 128 
Heredity, effect of alcohol on, 106 
Holmes, O. W., on old age, i 
Hot water as a remedy, 26 
Hydrogen peroxide as an anti- 
septic, 112 

Hygiene, importance of, 1-2; defi- 
nition of, i ; object of study of, 
i ; progress of science of, i ; 
general rules of, 2 

Ice water, ill effects of, 26 
Indigestion, most common cause 

of, 17; results of, 18 ; relation 

of emoti'ons to, 18 
Inflammation in colds, 72-73 
Insanity, caused by the cocaine 

habit, 102; caused by alcohol, 106 
Insomnia, 31-32 



Intestines, as an organ of diges- 
tion, 4, 20 ; bacteria in, 6 ; 
emptying, 20-21 ; constipation, 
2122; as an excretory organ, 1 49 

Iodine, tincture of, as an anti- 
septic, 112 

Kidneys as organs of excretion, 

6, 150 
Koch, 8 1 

Ligaments, function of, 147 
Liver, as an organ of digestion, 4 ; 

as an organ of excretion, 149 
Lungs, as organs of respiration, 5, 
149; as organs of excretion, 6, 
149-150; blood purified in, 9; 
effect of shallow breathing on, 
9 ; a prey to germs, 9 ; develop- 
ment of, 10; forced breathing 
and, 10; trouble caused by flat 
chest, 77 ; effect of lateral cur- 
vature on, 7 7-7 8; breathing exer- 
cises for, 78-79 ; consumption 
of, 79-83 

Massage for the scalp, 58 

Meat as a food, 14, 15 

Milk, as a food, 15, 27; vitamins 
in, 19-20 ; Pasteurization of, 
27-28 

Mind, influence of, on health, 38- 
40; effect of mental shock, 38; 
influence of emotions on, 38- 
39 ; attitudes of, that can be 
controlled, 39; attitudes of, 
that should be cultivated, 39-40 

Mineral properties in foods, 15 

Moist air, 10-11 

Mouth, an organ of digestion, 4; 
an organ of respiration, 5 ; 
breathing through the, 7 1 

Muscles, contraction of, 34; fatigue 
in, 35 ; weakened by corsets, 65 ; 
principal propertv of, 145 ; num- 
ber of, 148 ; used in motion and 
locomotion, 148; voluntary, 148; 
involuntary, 148; controlled by 
the nervous system, 148 



INDEX 



155 



Nails, care of the, 51 

Nasopharynx, 70 

Nerves, stimulated by coffee and 
tea, 27 ; affected by strong emo- 
tions, 38 ; and alcohol, 105-106 ; 
composition of the, 145 ; func- 
tions of, 146; muscles controlled 
by, 148 ; a system of organs, 150 

Neutral bath, 49 

Nose, an organ of respiration, 5 ; 
parts of, 70 ; functions of, 70 ; 
obstructions in, 70, 71; ade- 
noids, 70; polypi, 71 

Nosebleed, treatment for, 129 

Old age, premature, 99 
Olive oil for the scalp, 58 
Open fire an aid in ventilation, 12 
Opium, description of, 100; effects 
of, 100; the habit, 100-101 ; 
forms of, 101 

Qrgans, of the body, 145; of 
special sense, 146; classified, 
147; of locomotion, 147; of 
digestion, 148 ; of circulation, 
149; of respiration, 149; of ex- 
cretion, 149; the nerves, 150. 
See also Lungs, Stomach, etc. 
Oxidation, produces heat and 
energy, 5 ; increased by mus- 
cular exercise, 5 ; coal destroyed 
by, 6; products of, 6, 149; the 
most important function of the 
body, 9 ; and sleep, 30 
Oxygen, how supplied to the body, 
5, 149; where taken into the 
blood, 9 
Oxygen requirements of bacteria, 



Pancreas an organ of digestion, 4 
Pasteurization, effect of, on vitamins, 
20 ; effect of, on bacteria, 27-28 
Patent medicines, 75, 106-107 
Perspiration, effect of, on the skin, 
47-48 ; raincoats and, 64 ; stock- 
ings and, 64-65 ; effect of patent- 
leather and waterproof shoes on, 
68 



Physical examination, need of, 2 

Pneumonia, and shallow breath- 
ing, 9 ; caused by careless spit- 
ting, 80 ; and alcohol, 105 

Poisoning, treatment for, 133-134 

Polypi, 71 

Proteins, food value of, 14-15 

Ptomaines, 112 

Rabies, treatment for, 132 

Radiation, effect of, on the skin, 
47 ; hindered by woolen gar- 
ments, 62 

Respiration, organs of, 5, 149 

Round shoulders, 77 

Saliva, 19, 28 

Salt, as a part of food, 20 ; for the 
gums and teeth, 45 

Scalp, care of, 56-58 

Schoolrooms, temperature of, 1 1 

Shampooing, 5758 

Shock, treatment for, 115-116 

Shoes, 67-68 ; correctly fitted, 67 ; 
size of, 67 ; soles, 67 ; heels, 67- 
68 ; low, 68 ; high, 68 ; material 
used for, 68 ; weight of, for 
winter, 68 

Skin, the, 47-53 ; an organ of ex- 
cretion, 6, 1 50 ; effect of water- 
drinking on, 25; functions of, 
4748 ; as a protective covering, 
47 ; as a heat regulator, 47-48 ; 
perspiration, 47 ; as an excre- 
tory organ, 48 ; chilling the, 48 ; 
effect of bathing on, 48 ; the 
warm bath, 49 ; the cold bath, 
49-50 ; the air bath, 50 ; the 
Turkish bath, 50 ; swimming, 
50-51; cold water on the face, 
51 ; caring for the hands, 51- 
52 ; soaps, 52-53 ; effect of 
woolen clothing on, 64; effect 
of rubber raincoats on, 64 

Sleep, 30-33; a necessity, 30; 
best conditions for, 30-31 ; 
length of, 31; result of too 
much, 31 ; insomnia, 31-32 ; bed- 
clothing, 32 



i 5 6 



MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE 



Soap, and the warm bath, 49 ; and 
the cold bath, 49 ; on the face, 
51 ; kinds of, 52 ; for shampoo- 
ing, 57 ; for washing woolen 
clothing, 62 

Soda water, 26 

Spitting, dangers of, 80 

Spores, iio-in 

Sprains, treatment of, 117 

Starch, foods containing, 14-15 

Stockings, 64-65 

Stomach, an organ of digestion, 4, 
148 ; effect of cold water on, 
26; effect of hot water on, 26; 
effect of, on sleep, 30 

Stretchers in case of accidents, 

I37-I3 8 
Sugar, as a food, 15, 19; candy, 

19 ; requires saliva for digestion, 

28 
Sulphur dioxide as a disinfectant, 

112 

Sun-stroke, treatment for, 127 
Sweat glands, work of, 47 
Sylpho-nathol as an antiseptic, 112 

Tannin, 26 

Tea as a beverage, 26-27 

Teeth, an aid to digestion, 4 ; 
hygiene of, 4245 ; relation of 
coarse foods to decay of, 42 ; 
why teeth should be cared for, 
42-43 ; toothache, 43 ; how to 
care for, 43-45 ; cleaning the, 
44 ; the toothbrush, 44 ; pow- 
ders and pastes, 45 ; salt, 45 ; 
affected by mouth breathing, 71 

Temperature, of living rooms, 1 1 ; 
of schoolrooms, 1 1 ; of the body, 
47 ; for the warm bath, 49 ; for 
the cold bath, 49 

Theine, effect of, 26-27 

Throat, the, an organ of digestion, 

4, 148; an organ of respiration, 

5, 149; infections of, 71, 72 



Tissues, how fed, 5 ; explained, 
145; epidermal, 146; connec- 
tive, 146 

Tobacco, objections to use of, 98; 
effect on the eyes, 98 ; effect on 
the heart, 98-99 ; effect on the 
arteries, 99 ; effect on the young, 
100 

Tonsils, the, 71-72 

Tooth powders and pastes, 45 

Toothache, cause of, 43 

Toothbrush, 44 

Tourniquet, use of the, 128-129 

Toxins, 112 

Trunk, the, 146147 

Tuberculosis. See Consumption 

Vaccines, 112-113 

Vaseline, for the scalp, 58 

Vegetable diet, 15, 22 

Veins, organs of circulation, 4 ; 

work of the, 149 
Ventilation, 11-12 ; a necessity for 

refreshing sleep, 30 ; relation of, 

to colds, 74 
Vision. See Eyes 
Vitamins in food, 19 
Vomer, 70 

Waste, how removed, 6, 149 ; ac- 
cumulated in exercising, 35-- 

36 

Water, drinking of, 25-26 

Wheat flour and constipation, 
21-22 

Window board, use of, in ventila- 
tion, ii 

Woolen clothes, 62 

Worry, effect of, on health, 38, 

39 

Wounds, treatment of, 130; heal- 
ing by first intention, 131 ; heal- 
ing by second intention, 131 ; 
infected, 131-132 



td 



H 

4 

Pi oi 

; 03. 

hO Q> 

o 

O <M 



5 -3 

It 3 



; 



University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 

Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



